fl 


mBBBBImmHh  U 

■ •„•&.<>  ..:*]:''    ,.•.•.•].    rr^--    •'. 


■ 


tilrflU 


MA 


HgBi 


I  ';j  HlfiAl 

II  1 
-  inflfiUllnfUi!  *t  BflUa 

nHnta 


tSBmm 


ufrtralnfK 

I  ■ 

MttU 

Hi 


H 


1  ■ 

I   ; 

H 


#j 


■  I*) 
KHiU 


Mi 


jm: 


18  Pfflf 


Scanned  from  the  collections  of 
The  Library  of  Congress 


AUDIO-VISUAL  CONSERVATION 
at  The  LIBRARY  of  CONGRESS 


Packard  Campus 

for  Audio  Visual  Conservation 

www.loc.gov/avconservation 

Motion  Picture  and  Television  Reading  Room 

www.loc.gov/rr/mopic 

Recorded  Sound  Reference  Center 
www.loc.gov/rr/record 


PUBLISHER'S  BINDINU 


5-  JAW  14 

copr.r  w 

Vt«%>«n  -urn    )••  n&vatl 


RADIO 
MIRROR 


DIO  MIRROR'S   N.  Y.,  N.  J.,  Conn.  Edition 


NEW! 

JOAN  O'BRIEN'S 

Show  Business  Baby 

• 

DENNIS  JAMES' 

Glad  Tidings 


THAT  TVORY  LOOK 


YOUNG  AMERICA  HAS  IT...  YOU  CAN  HAVE  IT 


a  perfect  snap  ! 

Look  .  .  .  large-size  Ivory  in 

the  new  twin-cake  design  now 

snaps  into  2  perfect  toilet-size 

cakes — one  for  your  bath, 

one  for  your  complexion. 

99  100%    PURE  ...  IT    FLOATS 


-1  ■> ) 

A 

•%") 

Pi  ■  ■ 

^7 

'    .  i^'"J 

IN    7    DAYS  ! 


Isn't  this  little  pixy  irresistible  with  her  perky 
hat  and  That  Ivory  Look?  It's  a  radiant 
look  that  can  be  yours  through  the  magic 
of  Ivory's  mildness.  Gentle  enough 
for  baby's  skin,  pure,  mild  Ivory  is 
first  choice  with  doctors  for  yours,  too. 


Be  irresistible  yourself .  .  .  remember  the 
milder  your  soap,  the  prettier  your  skin,  and 
Ivory  has  a  mildness  all  its  own.  So  change  to 
regular  care  with  Ivory  and  in  just  7  days  you'll 
see  the  difference.  Your  skin  will  have  that 
dewy-fresh  look  .  .  .  That  Ivory  Look. 


MORE    DOCTORS    ADVISE    IVORY    THAN    ANY    OTHER    SOAP! 


X 


*~  MUM 


i 


Hmmm   W  W 


ft/lUIS/l 


® 


PHOTOGRAPH     BY    RICHARD    AVEDON 


The  doctor's  deodorant  discovery 
that  now  safely  stops  odor  24  hours  a  day 


Jnderarni  comparison  tests  made 
by  doctors  proved  a  deodorant  without 
M-3  stopped  odor  only  a  few  hours  — 
while  New  Mum  with  M-3  stopped 
odor  a  full  24  hours  ! 


You're  serene.  You're  sure  of  yourself.  You're  bandbox  perfect  from  the  skin  out. 

And  you  stay  that  way  night  and  day  with  New  Mum  Cream. 

Because  New  Mum  now  contains  M-3  (hexachlorophene)  which  clings  to 

your  skin  — keeps  on  stopping  perspiration  odor  244iours  a  day. 

So  safe  you  can  use  it  daily— won't  irritate  normal  skin  or  damage  fabrics. 


Another  fine  product  of  bristol-myers 


KIND  TO  YOUR  SKIN  AND  CLOTHES 


it 


wnatfi  new 
in  eye  beauty ! 

Look  prettier — through 
curly  lashes  in  just 
seconds — with  the  new 
soft-cush-ion 

JhMkw 

'  PROFESSIONAL 

EYELASH    CURLER 
.     naturally, 
£|     it's  the  best . .    i 
•    goW  plated  .    , 
Molded  Cushion  refill,  only  ICr 


You  must  try  the  wonderful  new 


AUTOMATIC 
EYEBROW  PENCIL 

never  needs  sharpening 
— spring-locked  crayon 
can't  fall  out . 
Velvet  Black,  Dark  or 
Light  Brown,  and  now  in 
Dove  Grey  "or  Auburn  .  . 
39£  for  two  long-last  ing  refills 

Tweeze  with  ease-with  the  new  silvery 

EYEBROW  TWEEZERS 

designed  with  a  grip  that 

can't  slip— straight 

or  slant  edge  .  .  .     29^ 

Last  but  not  least— the  world-famous 

'  MASCARA 

for  long,  dark,  velvety 
lashes — Solid  Form  in 
gorgeous  gold-plated 
vanity  case  —  or  Cream 
Form  in  smart  kit 

SPECIALISTS   IN   EYE   BEAUTY 


TV 


RADIO 
MIRROR 


JULY,  1956 


N.  Y.,  N.  J.,  CONN.,  EDITION 


VOL.  46,  NO.  2 


Ann  Higginbotham,  Editor 


Ann  Mosher,  Executive  Editor 
Teresa  Buxton,  Managing  Editor 
Claire  -Safran,  Associate  Editor 
Sonia  Gould,  Assistant  Editor 


Jack  Zasorin,  Art  Director 

Frances  Maly,  Associate  Art  Director 

Joan  Clarke,  Art  Assistant 

Bud  Goode,  West  Coast  Editor 


PEOPLE  ON  THE  AIR 


4 
29 
32 


34 
36 
38 

40 


What's  New  From  Coast  to  Coast by  Jill  Warren 

How  To  Be  a  Cinderella  (Patti  Page) by  Ed  Meyerson 

Daddy  Can  Do  Anything!   (Danny  Thomas) by  Fredda  Balling 

Love's  Guiding  Light  (Susan  Douglas  and  Jan  Rubes) 

by  Mary  Temple 

Memories  Are  Made  of  This  (George  de  Witt) by  Alice  Francis 

Glad  Tidings  (Dennis  James) by  Martin  Cohen 

Love  Of  Life  (picture  story  from  the  popular  daytime  drama) 

Who's  Who  on  CBS  Radio  Workshop 56 

What  More  Can  Any  Man  Ask?  (Melville  Ruick)  by  Gregory  Merwin     60 

Toward  a  Brighter  Day  (Blair  Davies) by  Marie  Haller     62 

Ideas,  Inc.   (John  Guedel) by  Elsa  Molina     64 

A  Very  Good  Morning]  (Will  Rogers,  Jr.) by  Peter  Charade    66 


FEATURES  IN  FULL  COLOR 

Show  Business  Baby  (Joan  O'Brien  and  Bill  Strange)  by  Bella  Dudley  44 

Bachelor  Serenade  (Frank  Parker) by  Frances  Kish  46 

Karl  Weber— Family  Man by  Gladys  Hall  50 

Mr.  Average  American  (Gordon  MacRae) by  Bud  Goode  52 

YOUR  LOCAL  STATION 

Swinging  on  a  Tree  (ABC  Film  Syndicate) 10 

News  Champion    (WCAX,  WCAX-TV) 14 

On  the  Town  (WRCA-TV,  WRCV-TV,  KRCA-TV) 16 

Music  Till  Dawn  (WCBS) 18 


YOUR   SPECIAL  SERVICES 

Information  Booth 8 

New  Patterns  for  You  (smart  wardrobe  suggestions) 12 

Daytime  Diary 20 

On  the  Record  (turntable  talk) by  Joan  Wallace  22 

New  Designs  for  Living  (needlework  and  transfer  patterns) 24 

Inside  Radio  (program  listings) 76 

TV  Program  Highlights 78 

Cover  portrait  of  Patti  Page  by  David  Workman  of  U.S.  Features 


BUY  YOUR  AUGUST  ISSUE  EARLY       •       ON  SALE  JULY  5 


PUBLISHED  MONTHLY  by  Macfadden  Pub- 
lication,   Inc.,    New   York,    N.   Y. 
EXECUTIVE,      ADVERTISING      AND      EDI- 
V«  TORIAL     OFFICES      at      205      East      42nd 
Street,    New  York,    N.    Y.    Editorial   Branch 
f*  Office:    321    South    Beverly    Drive,    Beverly 
rO    Hills,    Calif.    Irving    S.    Manheimer.    Presi- 
O,.    _**      dent;  Lee  Andrews,  Vice  President;  Meyer 
•l*  Dworkin,    Secretary  and   Treasurer.    Adver- 

tising offices  also   in   Chicago,    221   North 
LaSalle    Street,    and    San    Francisco. 

SUBSCRIPTION  RATES:  $3.00  one  year,  U.  S.  and 
Possessions  and  Canada.  $5.00  per  year  for  all  other 
countries. 

CHANGE  OF  ADDRESS:  6  weeks'  notice  essential.  When 
possible,  please  furnish  stencil-impression  address 
from  a  recent  issue.  Address  changes  can  be  made  only 
if  you  send  us  your  old,  as  well  as  your  new  address. 
Write  to  TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East  42nd  Street,  New 
York  17.  N.  Y. 
MANUSCRIPTS:    All   manuscripts  will   be  carefully  con- 


sidered, but  publisher  cannot  be  responsible  for  loss  or 
damage.  It  is  advisable  to  keep  a  duplicate  copy  for 
your  records.  Only  those  manuscripts  accompanied  by 
stamped,  self-addressed  return  envelopes  or  with  suffi- 
cient return  postage  will  be  returned. 
FOREIGN  editions  handled  through  Macfadden  Publi- 
cations International  Corp.,  205  East  42nd  Street,  New 
York  17,  N.  Y.  Irving  S.  Manheimer.  President;  Doug- 
las Lockhart,   Vice  President. 

RE-ENTERED  as  Second  Class  Matter,  June  28,  1954, 
at  the  Post  Office  at  New  York,  N.  Y.,  under  the  Act  of 
March  3,  1879.  Authorized  as  Second  Class  mail,  P.  O. 
Dept.,  Ottawa,  Ont.,  Canada.  Copyright  1956  by  Mac- 
fadden Publications,  Inc.  All  rights  reserved  under  In- 
ternational Copyright  Convention.  All  rights  reserved 
under  Pan-American  Copyright  Convention.  Todos  de- 
rechos  reservados  segun  la  Convencion  Pan-Americana 
de  Propiedad  T.ileraria  y  Artistica.  Title  trademark 
registered  in  U.S.  Patent  Office.  Printed  in  U.  S.  A. 
by   Art   Color  Printing   Company. 

Member  of  the  TRUE  STORY  Women's  Group 


Richard  Hudnut  3-month  test  proves 

NEW  PIN-QUICK  OUTLASTS 
ANY  OTHER  PINCURL  PERMANENT 


3  MONTHS  AGO 

"From  the  first  time  I  combed  my  Pin-Quick  wave  I've 
had  the  soft,  casual  curls  I  adore,"  says  vivacious  model, 
Sandra  Dee.  "Pin-Quick's  easy  — like  setting  your  hair! 
Fast,  too!  I  dried  it  in  minutes  with  a  dryer."  (And  see 
that  lovely  lanolin  shine  in  Sandra's  Pin-Quick  curls ! ) 


VTV" 


J 


TODAY 

"Imagine!"  exclaims  Sandra.  "After  all  these  months  and 
all  those  shampoos,  my  Pin-Quick  wave  is  still  lovely.  My 
curls  are  like  new— so  soft  and  springy.  That's  Pin-Quick 
for  you!  It's  really  permanent!"  And  here's  the  answer: 
Pin-Quick's  Magic  Curl  Control  locks  curls  in  to  last. 


RICHARD  HUDNUT 


Richard  Hudnut  guarantees 
Pin-Quick  to  last  longer 
than  any  other  pincurl  permanent 
--.or  your  money  back!        Ip?,?, 


% 


Baseball's  Smiths:  Mayo  manages  the  Phillies; 
"Buffalo"  Bob  is  a  Babe  Ruth  League  coach. 


Anniversary  party  for  TV  Radio  Mirror  found  Jackie  Cooper  and  Milton 
Berle  reminiscing  over  back  issues  with  publisher  Irving  S.   Manheimer. 


WHAT'S    NEW   FROM 


Summer  is  upon  us — and  it's  a  season 
of  change  in  the  broadcasting  world. 

Sponsors,  the  network  and  the  public 
would  be  just  as  happy  if  Perry  Como 
kept  right  on  singing,  but  popular  Per 
will  head  for  the  golf  course  during  the 
warm  months.  Patti  Page,  Tony  Ben- 
nett and  Julius  La  Rosa  will  take  over 
his  Saturday  night  spot  on  NBC-TV, 
rotating  as  stars  on  a  summertime  vari- 
ety show.  Patti  starts  off  the  new  lineup 
the  middle  of  this  month. 

CBS-TV  presents  Victor  Borge  in 
an  hour-long  one-man  show  on  Thurs- 
day night,  June  14.  The  pianist-spoofer 
has  been  breaking  records  all  over  the 
country  with  his  one-man  show  and 
will  incorporate  parts  of  his  act  in  his 
first  solo  TV  effort. 

"Entrances  and  Exits,"  starring 
crooner  Charlie  Applewhite,  is  now 
definitely  set  as  the  June  10  show  for 
G-E  Theater.  Charlie,  who  is  about  to 
be  inducted  into  the  Army,  had  to  get 
special  permission  to  delay  his  date 
with  Uncle  Sam — and  keep  this  TV 
date.  But  he'll  be  switching  from  make- 
up to  khaki  in  a  few  weeks.  The  June 
17  G-E  Theater  will  star  Patty  Mc- 
Cormack  in  "Alien  Angel."  Patty  is 
the  little  girl  who  found  fame  on 
Broadway,  playing  the  child  murderess 
in  "The  Bad  Seed."  She  repeats  her 
role  in  the  movie  to  be  released  later 
this  year. 

Sam    Levenson    will    replace    Herb 


Shriner  as  host-emcee  on  Two  For  The 
Money,  on  June  23.  Originally,  Fred 
Allen  was  set  to  take  over  for  Shriner, 
before  Allen's  untimely  death.  Dr.  Ma- 
son Gross  will  continue  as  the  show's 
one-man  brain-trust. 

Jack  Paar  and  Robert  Q.  Lewis  are 
no  longer  on  the  CBS -TV  schedule  and 
their  casts  have  scattered  this  way  and 
that.  In  spite  of  all  the  official  an- 
nouncements, the  real  reason  was  rat- 
ings that  just  were  not  high  enough  to 
keep  network  and  sponsors  happy.  And 
Arthur  Godfrey's  Wednesday  night 
TV  show,  starring  his  "friends,"  will  be 
no  more  as  of  July  25.  This  show  has 
had  serious  rating  trouble  ever  since 
Disneyland  began  on  ABC -TV. 

You  Are  There,  the  popular  Sunday 
night  TV  show  on  CBS,  has  scheduled 
some  interesting  programs  for  this 
month.  The  June  3  show  will  re-create 
"D"  Day;  on  June  10,  you  can  re-fight 
"The  Hatfields  and  McCoys  Feud"; 
"The  Completion  of  the  First  Trans- 
continental Railroad"  will  be  shown  on 
June  17;  and  the  June  24  program  will 
highlight  "The  Death  of  Stonewall 
Jackson." 

World  Music  Festival,  heard  Sunday 
afternoons  on  CBS  Radio,  will  present 
portions  of  the  Mozart  Festival  on  June 
3,  10  and  17.  All  the  music  was  recorded 
at  the  Mozart  Memorial  at  Salzburg  a 
few  months  ago.  James  Fassett  will  be 
the   music    commentator   for    all   three 


programs,  which  will  include  perform- 
ances by  the  Vienna  Philharmonic 
Orchestra,  the  famed  Mozarteum  or- 
chestra, soprano  Irmgard  Seefried, 
and  pianists  Wilhelm  Backhaus,  Clara 
Haskill,  and  Edwin  Fischer. 

NBC-TV's  ill-fated  Comedy  Hour 
has  run  out  of  its  Sunday-night  time. 
Steve  Allen  will  be  taking  over  that 
slot  this  summer,  with  the  network 
hoping  Steve  can  successfully  buck  the 
Ed  Sullivan  opposition.  According  to 
present  plans,  Steve  will  also  head  up 
a  variety  show.  Steve  will  probably 
continue  to  do  his  Tonight  show  three 
nights  a  week,  with  comedian  Ernie 
Kovacs  possibly  taking  over  the  other 
two  nights.  Ernie  has  substituted  for 
Steve  from  time  to  time  in  the  past. 

Pinky  Lee  has  departed  his  weekday 
kiddie  clambake,  and  NBC  has  slotted 
re-runs  of  the  old  Joan  Davis  filmed 
series,  I  Married  Joan,  into  Pinky's 
spot.  Several  things  contributed  to  the 
change,  mainly  the  tremendous  ratings 
achieved  by  Pinky's  rival,  Mickey 
Mouse  Club,  and  the  doctors'  warnings 
to  Pinky  to  reduce  his  health-wrecking 
schedule.  He'll  continue  his  Saturday 
morning  show  through  this  month  and 
NBC  is  planning  to  give  him  a  once-a- 
week  hour  program  in  the  fall. 

This  'n'  That: 

Dave  Garroway,  who  has  been  one 
of  the  most  popular  bachelors-about- 


•  BY  JILL  WARREN 


Garroway's    no    longer    a     bachelor-at-large. 
Dave's  now  officially  engaged  to  Pamela  Wilde. 


. 


Qua  Kids  Peter  Muller,  I  I,  "Goody"  Schaefer,  7,  Richard  Cutler,  9,  and 
Robert  Strom,   9,   pose   with   their  headmaster-host,    Clifton    Fadiman. 


television  in  New  York,  has  been  tagged 
at  last.  He  is  now  officially  engaged 
to  Pamela  Wilde,  though  there  is  no 
definite  date  as  yet  for  the  wedding. 
Dave's  fiance  was  formerly  an  actress 
and  dancer  and  is  now  working  as  a 
production  coordinator  for  a  TV  com- 
mercial film  outfit.  It  will  be  a  second 
marriage  for  both. 

Allen  Swift,  who  has  been  the 
"voice"  of  Howdy  Doody  for  several 
years,  is  leaving  Bob  Smith  and  cast 
to  package  his  own  kiddie  show.  Swift 
has  also  done  many  other  voices  on  the 
"Howdy"  show,  along  with  extensive 
vocal  dubbing  for  many  film  cartoons. 

Martha  Raye's  star  writers,  Ed  Sim- 
mons and  Norman  Lear,  have  parted 
company  with  the  funny  lady  in  order 
to  concentrate  on  a  new  joint  writing 
effort.  Meanwhile,  the  rumors  persist 
that  Martha  will  switch  to  a  situation- 
comedy  format  in  the  fall,  with  a  per- 
manent cast. 

Dick  Van  Patten,  who  plays  "Nels" 
on  the  Mama  TV  show,  and  his  wife 
Patricia  Poole  are  expecting  a  visit 
from  the  stork  in  October.  They  have 
a  baby  son,  named  Nels,  so  they're 
hoping  for  a  girl  this  time.  Inciden- 
tally, Mama  may  not  be  back  in  the  fall. 

Songstress  Joni  James  has  only  done 
guest  appearances  on  television,  but 
now  she  is  busy  filming  her  own  show 
in  London.  Joni  will  do  twelve  pro- 
grams and,  if  they  turn  out  well,  she 


hopes  they  will  be  sold  for  American 
distribution  in  the  fall. 

"Bundle  Of  Joy,"  which  is  to  co-star 
Eddie  Fisher  and  Debbie  Reynolds  in 
their  first  movie  together,  will  probably 
be  postponed.  It  was  originally  set  to 
start  in  July,  but  now  that  the  Fishers 
are  expecting  their  own  personal  bun- 
dle of  joy,  the  movie  version  will  have 
to  wait.  Incidentally,  this  picture  will 
be  a  re -make  of  the  old  Ginger  Rogers' 
comedy,  "Bachelor  Mother." 

Walt  Disney  and  ABC-TV  will 
launch  a  nationwide  search  next  year 
for  new  Mousekeeteers  on  the  Mickey 
Mouse  Club.  Auditions  will  be  held  in 
ten  cities,  with  winners  flown  to  the 
coast  to  guest  on  the  daily  program.  The 
best  will  then  be  put  under  contract. 

Congratulations  to  Ben  Grauer, 
NBC  commentator  and  special-events 
reporter,  who  was  named  a  Chevalier 
of  the  Legion  of  Honor  by  decree  of  the 
French  Government.  Ben  received  the 
award  from  Count  Jean  de  Lagarde, 
Consul  General  of  France,  in  a  special 
ceremony  at  the  French  Consulate  in 
New  York. 

Sherry  Jackson,  Danny  Thomas' 
TV  daughter  on  his  "Make  Room  for 
Daddy"  series,  has  been  signed  for  a 
most  difficult  screen  role  in  the  new 
Republic  picture,  "Come  Next  Spring." 
Sherry  will  play  the  mute  daughter  of 
Steve  Cochran  and  Ann  Sheridan. 

For    some   time   now,    Ted    Husing, 


popular  sportcasting  veteran,  has  been 
battling  illness.  His  many  fans  hope 
for  news  of  a  kayo  by  Ted  shortly.  Ted 
is  one  of  sports'  most  loved  figures. 

Mulling  The  Mail: 

Mrs.  E.  B.,  San  Antonio,  Texas:  Or- 
son Welles  made  a  deal  with  Desilu 
Productions  in  Hollywood  to  film  a  tele- 
vision version  of  his  Mercury  Theater, 
the  famed  group  he  headed  on  radio  sev- 
eral years  ago.  Welles  hopes  to  organize 
a  repertory  group  of  actors  to  appear 
in  serious  dramatic  stories,  but  it  isn't 
likely  this  series  will  be  ready  until 
late  this  year.  .  .  .  Mr.  J.  M.,  Indian- 
apolis, Indiana:  Doris  Drew,  who  sings 
on  The  Tennessee  Ernie  Ford  Show,  is 
married  to  comedian  Larry  Allen,  and 
they  have  a  three-year-old  son.  .  .  . 
Mrs.  L.  R.,  Madison,  Wisconsin:  Kate 
Smith  recently  celebrated  her  25th  an- 
niversary in  broadcasting.  She  is  47 
years  old.  .  .  .  To  those  of  you  who 
wrote  asking  why  Jack  Barry  was  re- 
placed on  The  Big  Surprise  quiz:  It 
was  a  decision  of  the  sponsor  and  the 
advertising  agency  involved  and — ac- 
cording to  our  readers'  letters — cer- 
tainly not  the  decision  of  the  viewing 
public.  .  .  .  Mrs.  C.  B.,  Los  Angeles, 
California:  Bob  Hawk  has  not  been 
active  in  radio  for  several  seasons,  and 
has  been  living  quietly  in  California's 
Beverly  Hills  section.  Fran  Allison  is 
married    to     (Continued    on    page     6) 


■ 


The 
World's 

Best 
Bobby  Pin 


Gayla  hold-bob  with  Flexi-Grip,  the 
world's  best  bobby  pin,  offers  you  a 
Beauty  Bonus  of  sheer,  luxurious,  60 
gauge,  15  denier  nylons  at  savings  of 
over  one-half.  You  can  get  a  set  of 
three  of  these  leg-flattering  nylons  by 
sending  only  $1.00  with  the  top  of  a 
Gayla  hold-bob  bobby  pin  card  or 
Gayla  Hair  Net  envelope.  Insist  on 
Gayla  hold-bob,  the  bobby  pin  more 
women  prefer  over  all  others,  and 
send  for  these  beautifully  fitting,  long 
wearing  nylons  today! 

©  1M4  O.P.I. 

GAYLORD  PRODUCTS,  INCORPORATED,  DEPT.  T-7 
1918  Prairie  Ave.,  Chicago  16,  III. 

Please  send,  postpaid,  sets  (a  pair  and  a  spare)  of 

nylons  as  checked  below.  Enclosed  is  SI. 00  (no  stomps) 
plus  the  top  of  a  Gayla  HOLD-BOB  Bobby  Pin  Card,  or  a 
Gayla  Hair  Net  Envelope,  for  each  set.  <The  top  of  a  25c 
card  entitles  you  to  order  2  sets.) 
Color:  D  Horning  Hist  D  Detirt  Sand  D  French  Ros« 
(Ortylth  Taupe)         (Brownish  Belie)  (Risy  Hue) 

Sla;      D8'A    D9    D9V4    D  10    D  lO'/i    D  11 
□  Short    D  Medium    along      D  Sell  Seam    Q  Dark  Seam 

NAME 

ADDRESS. 

CITY 


(Please  Print] 


This  offer  good  only  in  continental  United  States. 
Hawaii  and  Alaska.  Offer  subject  to  State  and  Local 
requirements  and  may  be  withdrawn  without  notice. 


MAIL  THIS  COUPON  TODAY 


WHAT'S  NEW  FROM  COAST  TO  COAST 

(Continued  from  page  5) 

Archie  Levington,  a  music  publisher  in 
Chicago.  .  .  .  Mrs.  W.  B.,  Cecil,  Wisconsin: 
Janette  Davis  is  not  now  married. 
She  was  married  at  one  time  to  a 
Chicago  man,  but  has  been  divorced  for 
several  years.  In  addition  to  her 
singing  chores  on  the  Arthur  Godfrey 
shows,  Jan  has  been  doing  lots  of  produc- 
tion work  for  her  boss,  and  it  wouldn't 
surprise  me  if  she  eventually  gave  up  her 
vocal  career  to  go  into  a  full  time  produc- 
ing job.  .  .  .  Mrs.  W.  S.,  Lyndhurst,  New 
Jersey:  For  complete  information  on  St. 
Jude  Hospital,  the  project  in  which  Danny 
Thomas  is  so  vitally  interested,  I  suggest 
you  write  him  c/o  American  Broadcasting 
Company,  Hollywood,  California.  .  .  .  Miss 
R.  T.,  Akron,  Ohio:  Andy  Williams,  who 
sings  on  the  Tonight  show,  is  not  married. 
Yes,  he  is  one  of  the  original  Williams 
Brothers  who  toured  the  night-club  cir- 
cuit and  did  guest  TV  shows  with  Kay 
Thompson.  ...  Mr.  W.  H.,  Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania:  Most  regular  viewers  of 
the  Perry  Como  show  would  probably 
agree  with  you  that  Buddy  Hackett  is  a 
very  funny  young  man.  And  there  are 
rumors  floating  around  that  NBC  will  star 
him  on  his  own  half-hour  situation- 
comedy  show  this  coming  fall.  I  even  hear 
the  tentative  title  will  be  Stanley.  .  .  .  Mrs. 
C.  B.,  Detroit,  Michigan:  Edgar  Bergen  re- 
cently celebrated  his  twentieth  anniversary 
on  radio,  and  there  was  an  elaborate 
luncheon  in  New  York  to  honor  the  occa- 
sion. Edgar  is  heard  on  CBS  Radio  and  also 
emcees  the  CBS-TV  quiz,  Do  you  Trust 
Your  Wife? 

What  Ever  Happened  To  .  .  .? 

Kenny  Delmar,  the  original  "Senator 
Claghorn"  on  the  late  Fred  Allen's  radio 
show?  Kenny's  career  has  had  many  ups 
and  downs  in  the  past  few  broadcasting 
seasons,  but  lately  he  seems  to  have  been 
concentrating  on  dramatic  shows.  Recently 
he  appeared  on  Kraft  Television  Theater, 
doing  the  lead  on  "The  Gentle  Grafter." 
At  the  moment  he  is  not  signed  for  any 
regular  TV  series. 

The  Andrews  Sisters,  the  popular  sing- 
ing trio  of  records,  radio,  night  clubs  and 
movies?  Since  the  girls  engaged  in  a 
private  battle  and  dissolved  their  act,  none 
of  them  has  fared  too  well  individually,  at 
least  career-wise.   Patty  has  been  work- 


Going  on  two,  Deborah  duets  with 
her  mother,  singer  Dorothy  Collins. 


I 


Khaki  will  be  Charlie  Applewhite's 
garb — after  a  G-E  Theater  play. 


ing  as  a  solo  singer,  LaVerne  hasn't  been 
doing  much  of  anything,  and  Maxine  re- 
cently made  her  first  solo  appearance  at 
the  Blue  Angel  supper  club  in  New  York. 
There  has  been  talk  that  the  girls  would 
forget  their  differences,  kiss  and  make  up 
and  resume  their  career  as  a  group.  Let's 
hope  they  do! 

Art  Lund,  the  baritone  who  at  one  time 
was  Benny  Goodman's  band  vocalist,  and 
also  made  many  appearances  on  radio? 
Art  recently  got  a  good  break,  landing  a 
featured  part  in  the  new  Broadway  musi- 
cal, "The  Most  Happy  Fella,"  so  maybe 
this  will  be  the  turning  point  for  him. 

Lamont  Johnson,  popular  radio  and 
television  actor,  who  played  on  such  shows 
as  Just  Plain  Bill,  Portia  Faces  Life,  Stella 
Dallas,  Philco  Playhouse,  Studio  One,  and 
others?  Recently  Lamont  has  been  devot- 
ing most  of  his  time  to  directing,  mainly 
some  of  the  NBC-TV  Matinee  Theater 
programs  in  Hollywood,  and  from  time  to 
time  he  has  also  appeared  as  a  performer 
on  the  same  show.  He  makes  his  home  in 
Hollywood  now. 

Lorraine  Rogers,  who  used  to  open  and 
close  the  Jackie  Gleason  show  and  was  also 
seen  regularly  on  such  programs  as  I've 
Got  A  Secret  and  The  Big  Payoff?  This 
pert  blonde,  once  a  top-flight  model  and  TV 
commercialist,  has  a  film  contract  at  the  age 
of  nineteen  and  has  decided  to  become 
either  an  actress  or  a  pop  singer.  She's 
studying  drama  with  Lee  Strasberg  (Susan's 
father)     and    voice    with    Freddie    Steele. 


If  you  have  a  question  about  one  of 
your  favorite  people  or  programs,  or  won- 
der what  has  happened  to  someone  on 
radio  or  television,  drop  me  a  line — Miss 
Jill  Warren,  TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East 
42nd  Street,  New  York  City  17,  New  York, 
and  I'll  try  my  best  to  find  out  for  you 
and  put  the  information  in  the  column.  Un- 
fortunately, we  don't  have  space  to  answer 
all  questions,  so  I  try  to  cover  those  per- 
sonalities about  whom  I  receive  the  most 
inquiries.  Sorry,  no  personal  answers,  so 
please  do  not  enclose  stamped  envelopes  or 
postage,    since    they    cannot    be    returned. 


in  Colgate  Dental  Cream  thate 


in  every  other  leading  toothpaste? 


It's  GARDOL! 

And  no  other  toothpaste  helps 

protect  so  many  people 

so  effectively  and  so  safely 

against  both  bad  breath 

and  tooth  decay ! 


HOW  COLGATE'S  WITH  GARDOL  FIGHTS  TOOTH  DECAY  AND  BAD  BREATH  ALL  DAY! 


Colgate's  with  Gardol  is  safe!  Safe  for 
children  of  all  ages— even  toddlers  under 
six.  Safe  to  use  in  all  water  areas!  No 
other  leading  toothpaste*  can  give  you 
long-lasting  Gardol  protection,  with  such 
complete  safety  for  every  member  of  your 
family!  No  other  company  can  match 
Colgate's  79  years  of  dentifrice  research ! 


Cleans  Your  Breath 

WhiteH 

Guards  Your  Teeth 


Unlike    other    leading    toothpastes, 

Colgate  Dental  Cream  forms  an  invisible, 
protective  shield  around  your  teeth  that 
rights  tooth  decay  all  day . . .  with  just  one 
brushing!  Your  dentist  will  tell  you  how 
often  you  should  brush  your  teeth.  But  re- 
member! One  Colgate  brushing  fights  de- 
cay-causing bacteria  12  hours— or  more! 


Colgate's  with  Gardol  helps  stop  bad 
breath  all  day  for  most  people  with  just 
one  brushing !  Instantly  sweeps  away  bac- 
teria that  cause  bad  breath  originating  in 
the  mouth  . . .  gives  you  a  cleaner,  fresher 
breath  all  day!  And  Colgate's  famous 
flavor  is  preferred  by  men,  women  and 
children  the  world  over! 


THE  TOP  THREE  BRANDS  AFTER   COLGATE'S. 


COLGATE 


SAFE  for  Children  of  All  Ages! 
SAFE  to  Use  in  All  Water  Areas! 
Cannot  stain  or  discolor  teeth! 


GARDOL   IS  COLGATE'S  TRADE-MARK 
FOR   SODIUM   N-LAUROYL  SARCOSINATC. 


PERIODIC    PAIN 

It's  downright  foolish  to  suffer  in 
silence  every  month.  Let  Midol's 
3-way  action  bring  you  complete 
relief  from  functional  menstrual 
distress.  Just  take  a  Midol  tablet 
with  a  glass  of  water .  .  .  that's 
all.  Midol  relieves  cramps,  eases 
headache  and  chases  the"blues." 


"WHAT  WOMEN  WANT  TO   KNOW" 

a  24-page  book  explaining  menstruation  is 
yours,  FREE.  Write  Dept.  B-76,  Box  280, 
New  York  18,  N.  Y.  (Sent  in  plain  wrapper). 


A  Pretty  Dollar 

Would  you  please  tell  me  about  Lynn 
Dollar,  who  appears  on  The  $64,000 
Question  on  CBS-TV? 

J.  R.,  Miami  Beach,  Fla. 

The  blond,  slender,  blue-eyed  page  girl 
who  escorts  contestants  to  Hal  March, 
fame  and  fortune,  is  a  farmer's  daughter 
from  Selfridge,  North  Dakota.  After  high 
school  in  near-by  Bismarck,  Lynn  slithered 
through  narrow  spaces  in  plane  hulls  to 
install  wires  for  Douglas  airplanes  in  Los 
Angeles.  Toward  the  end  of  the  war,  Lynn 
graced  the  fashion  salons  of  Chicago  and 
New  York,  then  completed  the  circle  to 
Los  Angeles — where  she  was  signed  by 
Howard  Hawks  to  do  movies,  but  never 
appeared  in  a  one.  .  .  .  Pretty-as-a-picture, 
Lynn  worked  behind  the  cameras  as  an 
assistant  TV  producer  on  the  Coast.  Fi- 
nally, audiences  heard  her  pleasant  voice 
describing  fashions  on  a  show  emceed  by 
Ernie  Kovaks  in  Philadelphia.  Weather- 
casts  and  deejaying  got  the  Dollar  treat- 
ment for  a  while,  then  she  co-hosted  the 
Lynn  Dollar — Jerry  Warren  Show,  featur- 
ing chatter  and  interviews  in  Trenton, 
New  Jersey.  .  .  .  The  multi-thousand  dollar 
program  called  upon  its  lovely  namesake 
when  she  appeared  on  a  local  show,  in 
Philadelphia,  called  Marco.  .  .  .  The  blond 
beauty's  only  hobby  is  making  the  furni- 
ture for  her  Manhattan  apartment.  Lynn's 
one  regret  is  that  she  can't  be  at  home  to 
watch  The  $64,000  Question  on  her  home 
screen.  But  a  job  is  a  job  is  a  career. 

Same  Name,  Different  Boy 

In  your  May  issue,  you  answered  a  re- 
quest for  information  on  Tim  Considine 
and  included  a  picture.  He  surely  doesn't 
look  the  same  as  he  does  in  "The  Adven- 
tures of  Spin  and  Marty"  on  the  Mickey 
Mouse  Club  on  ABC-TV. 

R.  P.,  Verona,  N.  J. 

Oops,  you're  right — as  are  the  many 
other  readers  who  noticed  that  Tim  looked 
"different."  We've  traced  the  reason  to  a 
slip-up  in  somebody's  photo  department. 
The  boy  we  pictured  in  May  is  Tim 
Rooney,  a  "Mouseketeer."  We  understand 
that  there  are  five  young  "Tims"  altogether 
over  at  ABC-TV,  but  we  think  we've  got 
them  properly  sorted  out  now. 


Which  Tim  is  "Spin"?  Readers  knew 
Considine  (right)  from  Rooney  (left). 


No    biz    like    show    biz,    says    Don 
Morrow,  once  a  businessman-to-be. 


He  Knows  His  Business 

Would  you  please  publish  some  informa- 
tion about  Don  Morrow,  the  popular  an- 
nouncer on  TV? 

E.  S,  Woodside,  N.  Y. 

Don  Morrow,  who  does  commercials  on 
Dragnet,  Warner  Bros.  Presents,  Gun- 
smoke,  Rin-Tin-Tin  and  Ozzie  and  Harriet, 
to  name  only  a  few,  is  one  of  the  most 
articulate  announcers  in  the  business — 
because  he  knows  his  business.  After 
studying  at  Danbury  State  Teachers  Col- 
lege, Don  earned  his  B.S.  degree  at  Syra- 
cuse University  and  received  another 
college  diploma  in  business  administra- 
tion at  Southern  Methodist  University, 
where  he  majored  in  advertising  and 
marketing.  .  .  .  Don  was  born  January  29, 
1927,  in  Stamford,  Connecticut,  where  his 
parents  owned'  the  Lindenhurst  Inn.  His 
father  was  a  Wall  Street  business  man  for 
more  than  thirty  years.  .  .  .  Yet,  despite 
his  training  and  background,  Don  aimed 
for  a  career  in  show  business  and,  in  1948, 
he  started  as  a  newsman  in  Syracuse  on 
its  first  TV  station,  WHEN.  He  opened 
another  first  TV  outlet  in  Dallas,  Texas — 
KBTV,  now  WFAA-TV.  ...  In  1951,  Don 
accepted  Dfczy  Dean's  offer  to  host  his 
national  radio  show  in  New  York.  Don  has 
since  headed  the  New  York  office  of  the 
Liberty  Broadcasting  System,  where  he 
announced  for  such  ace-newsmen  as  Wil- 
liam L.  Shirer  and  John  W.  Vandercook. 
He  also  aired  his  own  newscasts,  Don 
Morrow  and  the  News,  on  436  stations.  .  .  . 
Don  got  his  start  in  New  York  TV  as  co- 
host  with  Robert  Alda  on  Personality 
Puzzle  and  has  since  appeared  on  every 
major  network.  His  motion  picture  credits 
include  "Captain  Blackjack,"  "The  Joe 
Louis  Story,"  and  "Canyon  Crossroads." 
He's  also  filled  countless  engagements  at 
clubs,  banquets  and ,  theaters.  Obviously, 
this  man,  Don  Morrow,  knows  his  business 
— show  business,  that  is. 

(Continued  on  page  25) 


The  naked  truth  about 
the  girl  in  the  locker  room/ 

She's  the  belle  of  the  beach  .  .  .  even 
waves  seem  to  snuggle  closer.  She's  the 
girl  with  the  eye-stopping  figure,  slim 
waist,  smooth  hips,  flat  tummy.  She's 
the  girl  you  think  it's  impossible  to  be 
. . .  (  but  you're  wrong/)  She's  the  girl 
who  never  slips  into  bathing  suit,  dress, 
slacks  or  shorts,  without  first  slipping 
into  a  Playtex®  Living®  Panty  Brief 
of  figure-slimming  Fabricon/ 


\ 


X 


The  bra  in  the 


the  Playtex  Living  Bra! 


From  morn  to  dawn,  revealing  summer  fashions  need  a  Playtex  Panty  Brief] 


/ 


r#0&Z^i' 


Shorts  ore  long  on  flattery 
with  a  Playtex  Parity  Brief 
of  Fabricon  /  Amazing"hold- 
in"  power... without  a  seam, 
stitch  or  bone  to  show  thru/ 


Any  view?  of  you  is  super- 
slim,  thanks  to  your  Playtex 
of  super-slimming  Fabricon 
...  a  miracle  blend  of  downy- 
soft  cotton  and  latex/ 


Wise  night  owls  t  any  size)  slip 
into  a  Living®  Panty  Brief— 
and  take  on  a  glamorous  fig- 
ure in  seconds  . . .  thanks  to 
Fabricon's  "hold-in"  power/ 


There's  a  Playtex®  Panty  Brief  for  Every  Figure! 
Playtex  Lightweight  for  wonderful  control. $4.50 
Playtex  Magic-Controller* 

"finger"  panels  for  most  control $6.95 

Playtex,  known  everywhere  as  the  girdle  in  the  SLIM  tube 


S195G    by  International  Latex  Corp.  .    .  PLAYTEX  PARK  .  .  Dover  Del  •  In  Canada:  Playtex  Ltd.  .  .  PLAYTEX  PARK  .  .  Arnprior,  Ont.     »u.  s.,  foreign  pat.  and  pats,  ponding 


Swinging 


Irish  McCalla  loved  beijig  a  tomboy — so  she 
grew  up  to  be  Sheena,  Queen  Of  The  Jungle 


Husband   Pat  first  saw   Irish   in   a   restaurant, 
but,  as  son  Sean  agrees,   she  can  cook,   too! 


10 


Queen   of  the   jungle,    Irish    brings    part   of 
her  realm,  an  ocelot,  home  to  Kim  and  Sean. 


This   "Queen"   made   her  own   costume.   But 
Irish   still   reads  Sheena  comics — in  Spanish! 


Irish  McCalla  kicked  off  her  shoes.    This  brought  her  height 
down  to  a  barefoot  five-foot-nine-and-a-half,  but  Irish  had  just 
emerged  from  several  months  in  the  jungle  and  she  was  finding  it 
difficult  to  get  back  in  the  habit  of  high-heeled  trotting  through  the 
big-city  canyons.  .  .  .  Irish  romps  about  in  the  jungle,  swinging 
from  trees,  manipulating  a  spear  and  championing  the  local  animals 
and  humans,  as  star  of  Sheena,  Queen  Of  The  Jungle,  the  ABC 
Film  Syndication  series.  More  than  two  hundred  girls  had  auditioned 
for  the  role  of  Sheena.  "They  needed  someone  who  could  act  and 
swim  and  ride  and  run — and  also  look  like  a  girl,"  Irish  explains. 
"Well,  I'm  a  girl  and  I  look  like  a  girl.   And  I'd  played  enough 
cowboys  and  Indians  to  know  how  to  run."  .  .  .  Before  Sheena  was 
a  TV  heroine,  she  was  a  comic-strip.    And  before  Irish  was 
a  TV  star,  she  was  an  avid  Sheena  reader,  as  were  her  seven  brothers 
and  sisters  in  Pawnee  City,  Nebraska.    "I  used  to  play  among 
the  trees  and  make  believe  I  was  Sheena,"  she  recalls,  "and  that  my 
brother  was  Tarzan-"  •  .  .  Later,  when  she'd  grown  up  to  pin-up 
proportions,  Irish  came  to  California.    She  was  walking  along 
the  beach,  "just  minding  my  own  business,"  when  a  group  of  naval 
officers  asked  her  to  accept  the  title  of  "Miss  Navy  Day."    The  result 
was  a  modeling  career  and  some  TV  guest  appearances.  .  .  . 
But  Irish  recalls  an  even  more  important  occasion  when  she  was 
"spotted" — by  one  Patrick  Mclntyre,  a  six-foot-tall  insurance  man. 
Pat  saw  her  in  a  restaurant,  poked  his  friend  and  said:  "You  know, 
if  I  met  a  girl  that  looked  like  that,  I'd  marry  her  in  a  minute." 
A  year  later,  they  were  introduced  by  a  mutual  friend  and  Pat 
reminded  Irish  of  the  green  knitted  dress  she'd  been  wearing. 
He  remembered  his  vow,  but  it  took  him  three  weeks  to  fulfill  it.  .  .  . 
Five  years  later,  Pat  and  Irish  live  in  a^ranch-style,  San  Fernando 
home  with  two  sons,  Kim,  3,  and  Sean,  2.    The  jungle  "Queen"  is 
domesticated  enough  to  love  cooking,  but  not  enough  so  she  doesn't 
hate  housework.     Irish  made  the  original  Sheena  costume,  but  she 
insists  that  the  effect  was  supposed  to  be  primitive.    She  admits  that 
when  she's  handed  a  piece  of  velvet,  she  doesn't  sew  it,  she  paints  on 
it.  .  .  .  She  also  confesses  she's  been  reading  Sheena  comics  again, 
this  time  in  the  Spanish-language  edition,  to  learn  Spanish  for  use 
on  location  in  the  Mexican  jungle.    Seems  the  citizens  are  friendly. 


HOLLYWOOD  DISCOVERY!  A  non-drying  spray-set  with 

ivo  Lfl&fci&b  at  o&L  I 


New  SUPER-SOFT 

Lu^At-f<iet 

the  spray-set 
with  lanolin  esters! 


.-.; 


CL 


«    starring  in  ^ 

'THE  FIRST  TRAVELING 

SALESLADY" 

An  RKO  Radio  Picture. 
Print  by  Technicolor. 


i! 


THERE  ARE    2 

SUPER-SOFT— gentle 
control  for  loose,  casual 
hair-do's.  Contains  no 
lacquer  at  all.  Spray  it 
on  regularly  when  you 
comb  your  hair. 


LUSTRE-NETS 

REGULAR— extra  con- 
trol for  hard-to-manage 
hair,  or  curly  hair-do's. 
No  lacquered  look,  no 
lacquer  odor.  Sets  pin- 
curls  in  hair  when  dry. 


5H  oz. — a  full  ounce  more  .  .  .  Only  $1.25  plus  tax 
By  the  makers  of  Lustre-Creme  Shampoo 


Keeps  hair  in  place  the  Hollywood  way — without  stiffness  or 
stickiness!  New  Super-Soft  LUSTRE-NET  is  the  softest  way 
imaginable  to  keep  waves  and  curls  in  place — for  it 
contains  not  one  single  drop  of  lacquer ! 

Helps  prevent  dryness!  Super-Soft  LUSTRE-NET  contains 
lanolin  esters  to  discourage  dryness,  preserve  softness. 

Quick-sets  hair-do's  .  .  .  ends  sleeping  on  pins! 
Set  pin-curls  in  damp  or  dry  hair.  Then  spray  with 
Super-Soft  LUSTRE-NET.  Curls  and  waves  dry  in 
a  jiffy,  brush  out  soft  and  shining. 


Makes  any 
pin-curl  style  set 
faster,  manage 
easier,  last  longer! 


;l 


cpfc  i&o  luA+nt-fJek 

recommended  by  Top  Hollywood  Movie  Stars 


11 


Don't 

be 

home-bound 

when 

you 

should 

be 

beach  bound! 


The  lame  excuses,  the you-run-along's  and 
count-me-out' s  are  as  dated  as  the  flapper 
dress.  Today's  smart  girls  never  let  time- 
of-the-month  interfere  with  a  beach 
party.  They  rely  on  Tampax  internal 
sanitary  protection. 

You  know,  of  course,  that  you  can  go 
swimming  with  Tampax.  But  you  don't 
have  to,  if  you  don't  feel  like  it!  The 
main  advantage  of  Tampax  is  that  it's 
completely  invisible  under  either  a  wet 
or  a  dry  bathing  suit.  You  can  simply  sit 
on  the  beach,  and  no  one  will  guess 
your  secret. 

Tampax  has  many  other  advantages 
that  keep  you  feeling  secure.  It  pre- 
vents odor  from  forming.  Never  chafes 
or  irritates.  Is  easy  to  dispose  of.  In  fact, 
in  every  way,  it's  nicer,  daintier,  more  fas- 
tidious. Get  your  choice  of  3  absorbencies 
(Regular,  Super,  Junior)  at  any  drug  or 
notion  counter.  Tampax  Incorporated, 
Palmer,  Mass. 


Feel 

confident 
in  a 
bathing 
suit 


New  Patterns 
for  Yon 


T 
V 
R 

12 


9047 — Wonderful  wardrobe  from  one  easy- 
sew  pattern!  Misses'  Sizes  12-20;  40.  Size 
16  dress  takes  3%  yards  39-inch;  jacket 
2   yards;    dickey   %   yard.  State   size.   35c. 

9364 — This  newest  dress  has  siren-slim 
lines — famous  for  their  figure-flattery!  Make 
it  with  tiny  mandarin  collar  or  scooped-neck 
version.  Misses'  Sizes  10-18.  Size  16  takes 
3%    yards    35-inch    fabric.   State   size.   35c. 

4661— Beautiful  basic — a  smart  sun-style 
that's  so  flattering  to  the  shorter,  fuller  fig- 
ure! Half  Sizes  14i/2-24y2.  Size  161/*  takes 
3%    yards    35-inch    fabric.   State   size.    35c. 


Send  thirty-five  cents  (in  coins)  for  each  pattern  to:  TV  Radio  Mirror,  Pattern  Depart- 
ment, P.O.  Box  137,  Old  Chelsea  Station,  New  York  11,  New  York.  Add  five  cents  for 
each    pattern    for    first-class    mailing.    Be     sure    to     specify    pattern    number    and    size. 


READ 

WHY 

AMERICA'S 

MOST 

GLAMOROUS 

MODELS 

CHOOSE 

COLORFUL 

US. 
SWIM 
C4PS 


t       ■ 


^ 


JESS*. 


Watertight  Suction 
Band  in  U.S.  Howland 
Cap  Seals  Hair  In  1 


Patented  Incurving 
V-Ribs  Keep  Out 
Water. 


X 


■■: 


Says  Jean  Patchett:  "You  know,  U.  S.  Howland  Caps 
are  endorsed  by  Florence  Chadwick,  the  famous  chan- 
nel swimmer  — and  the  gorgeous  sparkle  on  this  new 
cap  makes  ME  sparkle." 

3-D  SPARKLE  U.S.  HOWLAND,   1.98 


Says  Lillian  Marcuson:  "The  sun 

visor  shades  my  eyes,  makes  me 

look  mysterious." 

SEA  SPRITE  NYLON  TRICOT 

U.S.  AQUAMODE,  4.95 


Says  Betsy  Pickering:  "My  gypsy 

turban  with  jeweled  earrings 

makes  me  feel  lucky." 

SHEER  MAGIC  NYLON  TRICOT 

U.S.  AQUAMODE,  4.95 


Says  Alice  Bruno:  "Turns  every 
head  on  the  beach  my  way  just 
as  a  cap  should." 

TROPIC  FLOWER  3-D 
U.S.  HOWLAND,   1.75 


Says  Carmen:  "Saves  my  wave, 
keeps  my  hair  looking  soft  and 
pretty  for  my  work." 

VIOLET  HAIR-DRY 
U.S.  HOWLAND,   1.25 


United  States  Rubber 


ROCKEFELLER  CENTER,  NEW  YORK  20,  N.  Y. 


13 


__ 


Like  his  boxing  namesake, 
John  Sullivan  kayos  the  deadlines 
to  bring  up-to-the-minute  news 
to  WCAX  listeners  and  viewers 


On  the  go,  John  battles  the  clock  with  a  newsman's 
trusty  weapons — telephone,  typewriter  and  teletype. 


14 


Not  many  people  have  ever  heard  of  the  Manistee 
County  Times — not  even  in  Manistee,  Michigan, 
where  the  paper  was  published.  And  so  John  A. 
Sullivan  can  lay  claim  to  having  edited  what  he 
still  hopes  was  not  the  world's  smallest  newspaper. 
To  balance  this  claim,  John's  byline  has  also  been 
carried  by  the  London  Daily  Mirror,  which  boasts  the 
world's  largest  newspaper  circulation.  .  .  .  Cur- 
rently, as  news  director  of  Burlington's  Station 
WCAX  Radio  and  WCAX-TV,  John  is  still  a  newsman 
whose  own  story  rates  a  headline  or  two.  Accord- 
ing to  a  recent  Pulse  survey,  his  weekday  program, 
Newstime,  seen  on  WCAX-TV  at  6:30  P.M.,  has  the 
Number  One  rating  for  multi-weekly  shows  in  the 
Vermont,  New  York  and  New  Hampshire  area  covered 
by  the  station.  Important  in  the  program's  success 
are  John's  brisk,  sincere  delivery,  his  on-the-air 
personality,  and  the  nineteen  years  of  news  experience 
which  back  up  his  judgments.  .  .  .  These  same  factors 
add  up  to  the  popularity  of  J.  A.  Sullivan  With 
The  News,  his  12:30  P.M.  broadcast,  Monday  through 
Saturday,  on  WCAX  Radio.  John  supervises  all 
the  station's  other  radio  and  TV  news  broadcasts 
and,  when  the  occasion  warrants  it,  he  presents 
editorials,  carefully  labelled  as  such,  on  issues  on 
which  WCAX  feels  it  should  take  a  stand.  John  also 
produces  and  moderates  You  Can  Quote  Me,  Mondays 
at  8:30  P.M.,  when  headline  figures  are  quizzed 
by  a  guest  trio  of  newsmen.  .  .  .  John,  a  Harvard 
alumnus,  began  his  career  while  in  college,  as  a 
reporter  on  the  Boston  Globe.  From  there,  he  joined 
Time  magazine  and  then  moved  on  to  the  editorial 
staff  of  the  Office  of  War  Information.  He  served 
in  the  Army  and  with  the  U.  S.  Military  Government 
in  Germany.  Next  came  public  relations  and  free- 
lancing in  Paris  and  London.  Once  he  was  back 
Stateside,  he  bought  the  Manistee  County  Times  and 
edited  the  weekly  from  1949  to  1951,  when  he 
stopped  the  presses  to  take  on  the  news  editorship 
of  the  town's  radio  station,  WMTE.  He  joined 
WCAX  in  1953.  ...  A  year  later,  when  WCAX-TV 
went  on  the  air,  John  provided  a  symbol  for  Vermont's 
only  television  station  by  announcing  the  birth  of 
his  son  Donal  on  the  same  day,  September  26,  1954. 
John  and  his  wife  Nina  have  another  son,  John  the 
3rd,  who  is  nearing  his  third  birthday.  The  newsman 
has  a  Number  One  rating  at  home  as  well  as  on  the  air. 


John  starts  the  day  with  coffee  and  the  news,  ends 
it   relaxing   with   John   the   3rd,    Nina   and    Donal. 


PALMOLI VE  SOAP  CAN  GIVE  YOU  A 

GETS  HIDDEN  DIRT  THAT  ORDINARY  CLEANSING  METHODS  MISS  ! 


Dirt  left  on  face  after  ordinary  cleansing!  Rub  your  face  hard 
|  #    with  a  cotton  pad  after  ordinary  casual  cleansing  with  any  soap  or 
cold  cream.  You'll  see  that  you  didn't  remove  deep-down  dirt 
and  make-up.  "Ordinary  ■clean"  is  just  superficially  clean! 


Beautifully  clean  after. 60-second  Palmolive  facial!  Rub 

2  •  your  face  the  same  way  after  60-second  massage  with  Palmolive. 
Pad  is  still  snowy-white!  " Palmolive-clean"  is  deep-down  clean. 
Your  skin  is  free  of  clinging  dirt  that  casual  cleansing  misses. 


<Dn£y 


4,^(000  mtif/tfcxcf  can  work  so  thoroughly  yet  so  gently! 
Palmolive  beauty  care  cleans  cleaner,  cleans  deeper,  without  irritation ! 


Doctors  have  proved  that  Palmolive  beauty  care  can  give  you  a 
cleaner,  fresher  complexion  the  very  first  time  you  use  it!  That's  because 
Palmolive  care  gets  your  skin  deep-down  clean  by  removing  the  hidden, 
clinging  dirt  that  casual  methods  miss. 

Here's  the  easy  method:  Just  massage  your  face  with  Palmolive's  rich, 
gentle  lather  for  60  seconds,  morning  and  night.  Rinse  and  pat  dry. 
It's  that  simple!  But  remember  .  .  .  only  a  soap  that  is  truly  mild  can 
cleanse  thoroughly  without  leaving  your  face  feeling  drawn  and 
uncomfortable.  That's  why  Palmolive's  mildness  is  so  important  to  you. 
Try  mild  Palmolive  Soap  today  for  new  complexion  beauty! 

DOCTORS  PROVE  PALMOLIVE'S  BEAUTY  RESULTS! 


15 


■  .......  .■  ■         .   ..  -:■      .:■ 


rj*> 


1.  Renzo  and  Nancy — a  guy  from  Rome,  Italy,  and  a  gal  from  Kenosha, 
Wisconsin — pause  at  NBC's  studio  to  survey  Manhattan  isle,  after  hours. 


2.    First   stop   is  The    Harwyn    Club,    where    Nancy    confesses    her   acting 
ambitions  and   Renzo  regales  her  with  footlight  tales  of  two  continents. 


"|^on't  be  afraid,  darling,"  a  man  murmured. 

1^   Then  he  lit  milady's  cigarette, 
proriered  champagne  and  a  red  rose. 
Female  viewers  breathed  a  sigh  that  rever- 
berated   from    coast    to    coast.     Males 
watched  attentively — and  took  notes.    It  was 
Renzo  Cesana,  The  Continental,  to  whose 
bachelor  apartment  the  TV  camera 
transports  viewers  for  an  intimate  visit  with 
the  romantic,  mature  lover — with  the  accent 
on  accent  ....  The  same  TV  camera  is 
the  vehicle  whereby  viewers  are  carried 
to  a  boudoir  setting.  A  girl,  clad  in  sleepwear, 
does  bits  of  pantomime  and  dialogue,  then 
turns    out   the    light,    bids    her   dog 
Phaedeaux   (pronounced  Fido)   and  the 
audience  good  night — and  goes  to  sleep.  The 
girl  is  Nancy  Berg  and  she  is  writing  a 
book  on  insomnia.    On  TV,  the  method  she 
expounds  is  Count  Sheep  ....  Renzo 
Cesana  is  a  descendant  of  one  of  Rome's 
oldest  and  most  prominent  families. 
"I  chose  to  be  a  potential  ancestor  here," 
he  explains.    He  has  trod  the  boards  on  two 
continents,  was  seen   on  celluloid   in 
"Stromboli."   .   .   .   Nancy   Berg   started 
modeling  when  she  was  three,  decided  she'd 
reached  the  peak  when  she  modeled 
Vogue's    "Paris    Collection."     Now    she's 
reaching  out  for  new  worlds  to  conquer  in 
acting  and  singing.  .  .  .  TV  Radio  Mirror  felt 
the  Continental  charmer  and  the  American 
beauty  ought  to  meet — chaperoned  by  a 
photographer,  of  course.   Here  are  the  results. 

The  Continental  is  seen  on  WRCA  (N.Y.),  Sun.,  11 
P.M.;  WRCV  (Phila.),  Sat.,  11:30  P.M.;  KRCA  (L.A.), 
Sat..  11:15.  Count  Sheep  is  on  WRCA-TV,  M-F,  1  A.M. 


16 


•fit' 

t  ^     1 

1    l 

■ 

'     HP 

r  n 

!>•*  i 

;Kgc| 

.  ^M 

m    Mm 

1 

'HBgl 

\WM 

HPSB, 

3.  Where  to  now?  It's  a  balmy  night  and 
Nancy  and  Renzo  decide  to  walk  to  dinner. 


4.  Nancy  has  modeled  Paris  collections,  so 
Renzo  listens  carefully  as  she  window-shops. 


5.  At  the  Little  Club,  owner  Billy  Reed  takes 
their  order  for  dinner.  Champagne?  Of  course. 


The  accent  is  on  glamour 

as  Renzo  Cesana  escorts  Nancy  Berg 

on  a  night  around  Manhattan 


6.  Asked  if  he  enjoyed  the  dinner,  Renzo  murmured,  "I  enjoyed 
the  lady."  Now,  at  El  Morocco,  there  are  roses — and  laughter. 


7.  Wherever  they  went,  heads  turned  to  follow  Nancy  and  musicians  struck 
up  "Arrivederci,  Roma"  in  Renio's  honor.  They  danced  to  it  at  El  Morocco. 


8.   Nancy's  a   Cinderella,   with   a   program   to   do   at   one  A.M. 
They    taxi    to    WRCA,    where    Renzo    watched    Nancy    on    TV. 


9.  Work  over,  it  was  playtime  again — and  back  to  dancing  at  El  Morocco. 
Tables  emptied,  waiters  waited,  and  Nancy  and  Renzo  stayed  .  .  .  and  stayed. 


T        "* 

V 

R 


17 


IVIUSIO   TILL.   DAWN 


Bob  Hall  of  WCBS  spins  music 
in  the  wee  hours,  is  happily  at 
home   in   the   daylight   hours 


Bob's  been  heard  'round  the  world.  A  seaman  in 
Ceylon  wrote:  "Still  coming  in  loud  and  clear." 


The  Bob  Hall  way  is  to  speak  softly  and  carry  a  big 
stack — of  records.     For  New  York  night  owls,   this  is 
the  best-neighbor  policy,  and  Bob  practices  it  on  Music 
Till  Dawn,  a   program   of   classics,   semi-classics   and 
standards.  Yet  the  man  at  Manhattan's  WCBS  turntable 
— Tuesday  through  Sunday  from  midnight  to  the  crack  of 
dawn — has,  in  the  past,  been  known  to  raise  his  voice. 
.  .  .  Born  in  Rochester,  Bob  was  planning  to  be  a  music 
teacher  until  a  friend  suggested  he  try  radio  announcing. 
The  Hall  voice  rose  to  the  proper  pitch  of  excitement 
when  he  debuted  on  a  sports  show.  When  his  career  took 
him  to  Detroit  and  Station  WXYZ,  Bob  put  plenty  of 
sting  into  his  role  as  The  Green  Hornet — and,  as  under- 
study on  The  Lone  Ranger,  Bob's  "Hi,  ho,  Silver,  awaaay" 
was  stentorian.  By  1949  he  was  speaking  the  language 
of  New  Yorkers  on  WCBS  and,  three  years  ago,  he  quietly 
outspoke  eighty -five  competitors  for  the  Music  Till  Dawn 
spot,  where,  one  day,  he  may  unveil  a  very  fine  baritone 
voice.  .  .  .  Like  many  other  men,  Bob  arrives  home  slightly 
after  six.     But,  with  Bob,  it's  A.M.  He  breakfasts  in 
the  P.M.,  about  two,  has  the  afternoon  to  spend  with 
his  wife  Angela  and  daughter  Karen,  four.  His  favorite 
relaxation  is  gardening  and  Westchester  neighbors  are 
always  dropping  by  to  see  what  new  piece  of  equipment 
Bob  Hall  has  got  now.  .  .  .  Bob  is  available  for  shopping 
and  afternoons  at  the  country  club  in  Larchmont,  where 
he  golfs  in  the  upper  80's  while  his  womenfolk  swim. 
"Bob  is  such  an  easy  guy  to  live  with,"  says  Angie.  "I 
can  count  the  times  on  one  hand  I've  seen  him  blow  his 
top  or  get  angry."    Says  Bob,  "I  have  low  blood  pressure, 
anyway."  .  .  .  But  these  two  almost  didn't  get  together. 
In  Detroit,  Angie's  parents  ran  a  drug  store  which  Bob 
patronized.  They  liked  him  and  told  Angie,  a  successful 
home  economist,  about  him.    Her    reaction:    "A  radio 
announcer?  Ugh!"  Finally,  Bob  swapped  a  radio  audition 
for  one  of  her  other  beaux  for  a  date  with   Angie. 
"I  kept  looking  at  him,"  she  remembers,  "and  he  looked 
better  to  me  all  the  time."  So  began  a  six-year  courtship. . . . 
Now,  Angie  stays  up  till  three  in  the  morning  listening  to 
Bob.    She  has  plenty  of  company.    Though  he's  "local"  on 
WCBS,  Bob's  had  mail  from  47  states.    Come  in,  Oregon! 


18 


Karen,    now   studying    ballet,    and 
Bob  "assemble"  in  the  afternoons. 


He    retires    with    the    sunrise,    rises 
when  Angie  serves  breakfast  in  bed. 


Both  are  good  hands  at  cribbage 
Bob  got  his  first  date  by  a  "deal." 


trts  .s  ho"  ** 


fee\ 


•  •• 


Cashmere 
Bouquet 


Cast»««ere  ,,,. 

end  shoes  ease 
Says      _^. 


19 


All   programs   heard  Monday   through   Friday; 
consult  local  papers  for  time  and  station. 


AS  THE  WORLD  TURNS  Teen-age 
problems  agitate  the  Hughes  household  as 
Chris's  sister  Edie,  unmarried  and  bitter, 
takes  advantage  of  young  Penny's  resent- 
ment to  buy  her  affection  with  special 
privileges  Chris  has  decided  are  not  neces- 
sary for  his  daughter's  happiness.  And 
Penny's  best  friend  also  struggles  with  a 
problem — that  of  her  parents'  separation — 
one   she  can't  fathom  or   affect.   CBS-TV. 

AUNT  JENNY  Aunt  Jenny  rarely  leaves 
her  home  town,  and  yet  she  knows — and 
tells — more  stories  about  more  different 
kinds  of  people  than  most  residents  of  big 
cities  discover  in  a  lifetime.  Littleton  thus 
proves  a  point  Aunt  Jenny  often  makes 
.  .  .  that  drama  is  not  the  exclusive  prop- 
erty of  life  in  crowded,  bustling  places. 
Wherever  people  live,  they  are  bound  to 
create  the  kind  of  stories  Aunt  Jenny  tells. 
CBS  Radio. 

BACKSTAGE  WIFE  Broadway  star 
Larry  Noble's  new  play  runs  into  trouble 
from  its  opening  night,  and  one  of  the 
chief  disturbances  is  Larry's  leading  lady, 
Erica.  What  happens  when  Larry  and  his 
wife  Mary  find  themselves  caught  squarely 
in  the  middle,  as  Erica's  emotional  break- 
down intensifies  the  trouble  between  her- 
self and  her  husband,  Brad?   CBS  Radio. 

THE  BRIGHTER  DAY  Rev.  Richard  Den- 
nis has  cause  to  be  proud  of  his  family,  but 
if  he  were  to  admit  to  secret  worries  about 
one  of  them  it  would  be  Althea.  Beautiful, 
spoiled  and  restless,  Althea's  strongest  at- 
tachment has  always  been  to  her  little  girl, 
Spring.  What  will  happen  to  Althea  if  the 
terrible  possibility  facing  Spring  should 
materialize?  What  part  will  Elliot  Frasier 
play  in  her  life?  CBS-TV  and  CBS  Radio. 

DATE  WITH  LIFE  As  a  newspaper  man 
and  publisher,  Tom  Bradley  sometimes  has 
as  much  opportunity  to  help  make  the 
news  as  to  report  it  in  his  paper — and 
often  it  is  a  welcome  opportunity.  Such  a 
case  was  one  the  paper  recently  covered, 
where  a  romance  between  two  attractive 
young  people  was  suspended  in  order  to 
help  a  frightened  girl.  It  took  Tom's  re- 
search to  prove  just  who  was  the  victim 
in  this  case,  and  who  the  villain.  NBC-TV. 

THE  DOCTOR'S  WIFE  A  new  venture 
always  carries  the  promise  of  new  achieve- 
ment, but  sometimes  Julie  wonders  if  she 
and  her  husband,  Dr.  Dan  Palmer,  are  go- 
T    ing  to  fulfill  that  promise  with  their  move 
v    out  west.  Apart  from  the  vast  change  in 
R    Dan's  medical  practice,  Julie's  life  has  also 
been   channeled   into   strange   new   direc- 
tions. Will  her  mail-order  business  be  a  re- 
warding  move  or  a  mistake?  NBC  Radio. 

2SU 


THE  EDGE  OF  NIGHT  Lieutenant  De- 
tective Mike  Karr  faces  an  age-old  prob- 
lem when  duty  runs  counter  to  inclination. 
Sara  Lane's  mother  has  never  looked 
kindly  on  his  interest  in  Sara,  and  when 
Sara's  younger  brother  Jackie  gets  into 
trouble,  Mrs.  Lane  makes  everything  far 
worse  by  refusing  to  cooperate  with  Mike. 
She  turns  instead  to  her  powerful  brother- 
in-law,  Harry  Lane.  What  if  Mike  finds 
the   source    of   Harry's   wealth?    CBS-TV. 

THE  GUIDING  LIGHT  The  responsibili- 
ties of  friendship  force  both  Marie  Wallace 
and  Dr.  Dick  Grant  into  unexpected  action, 
as  Lila  Taylor's  serious  illness  alters  her 
whole  attitude  toward  Dr.  Jim  Kelly.  How 
would  they  all  be  affected  if  Kathy  re- 
turned to  California?  And  how  will  Meta 
react  if  her  sister-in-law,  Bertha  Bauer, 
continues  to  promote  meetings  between 
the  recently  widowed  Meta  and  eligible 
men?  CBS-TV  and  CBS  Radio. 

LOVE  OF  LIFE  Paul  and  Vanessa  Raven 
refuse  to  give  up  little  Carol,  even  though 
Paul  knows  that  Hal  Craig  is  fully  capable 
of  carrying  out  his  threats.  But  Paul  does 
insist  that  Vanessa  and  Carol  take  refuge 
out  of  town  while  he  tries  to  learn  the  se- 
cret of  the  locket  Carol  saw  by  accident. 
Will  Paul  find  the  answer  before  Craig  un- 
covers  Vanessa's   hiding   place?    CBS-TV. 

MA  PERKINS  Fay  Perkins  has  well 
met  the  experience  of  marriage  to  famed 
writer,  Tom  Wells.  But  when  Hollywood 
descends  on  them,  Fay  and  Ma  Perkins 
wonder  if  some  experiences  are  not  un- 
necessarily broadening — for  Gideon  Harris, 
the  exciting  star  who  plans  to  make  a 
movie  of  Tom's  book,  brings  his  own  way 
of  life  with  him,  and  young  Elaine  Rey- 
nolds may  never  get  over  it.  CBS  Radio. 

OUR  GAL  SUNDAY  Sunday's  marriage 
to  Lord  Henry  Brinthrope  has  withstood 
many  tests,  but  never  before  has  Sunday 
felt  that  its  very  foundation  was  being 
threatened.  Will  her  old  friend  from  the 
mining  town  where  she  grew  up  really 
bring  Sunday  to  believe  that  she  has  no 
place  as  the  wife  of  an  English  nobleman? 
What  of  the  English  girl  who  is  anxious  to 
convince  Henry  of  that?  CBS  Radio. 

PEPPER  YOUNG'S  FAMILY  When 
Pepper's  wife  Linda  first  began  to  show 
signs  of  disturbance,  Pepper  and  his  moth- 
er thought  of  every  possible  explanation 
for  her  uneasiness  except  the  true  one,  for 
Linda's  brief,  tragic  first  marriage  was 
over  so  long  ago  that  it  seems  never  to 
have  happened  at  all.  But  they  know  now 
that  the  past  can  cast  a  surprisingly  long 
shadow.  NBC  Radio. 


THE  RIGHT  TO  HAPPINESS  Despite 
her  caution  and  experience,  Carolyn  Nel- 
son gradually  succumbs  to  the  clever  at- 
tack made  on  her  as  a  human  being  and  a 
woman  by  Jack  Townsend.  Will  the  money 
she  holds  in  trust  really  find  its  way  into 
the  eager  hands  of  those  who  plan  to  vic- 
timize her  and  her  young  son,  Skip?  NBC 
Radio. 

THE  ROAD  OF  LIFE  Dr.  Jim  Brent's  ef- 
forts to  fight  a  charlatan  are  seriously 
hampered  by  the  unthinking  action  of  his 
foster-son,  Dr.  John  Brent,  and  Jim  fears 
the  end  result  may  be  the  ruin  of  both 
John's  reputation  and  his  own.  Could 
Merrimac,  to  which  Jim  has  devoted  so 
much  talent  and  so  many  years,  really  be 
turned  against  him — and  will  Randy  Og- 
den  be  the  one  to  swing  it?   CBS  Radio. 

THE  ROMANCE  OF  HELEN  TRENT 

Helen's  tempestuous  association  with  Mor- 
gan Clark  and  his  sister  is  not  something 
she  can  easily  forget,  but  she  looks  for- 
ward eagerly  to  the  renewal  of  her  ro- 
mance with  lawyer  Gil  Whitney,  and  to 
the  future  they  still  hope  to  have  together. 
What  will  Gil's  ex-wife  Cynthia  work  out 
in  her  wily  efforts  to  keep  Gil  and  Helen 
apart?  Can  she  use  the  Clarks  in  some 
way  to  gain  her  ends?  CBS  Radio. 

SEARCH  FOR  TOMORROW  Neither  his 
friends  nor  his  wife  wanted  Arthur  Tate  to 
borrow  $125,000  under  the  ominous  terms 
on  which  it  was  made  possible,  but  Ar- 
thur's driving  hope  to  make  the  future 
secure  for  his  family  canceled  all  their  ad- 
vice. Meanwhile,  the  sinister  V.  L.  Swan- 
son  perfects  the  plan  that  will  crush 
everyone  in  Henderson  who  helped  jail 
him  .  .  .  the  plan  that  may  even  kill  Ar- 
thur. CBS-TV. 

THE    SECOND     MRS.     BURTON     The 

half-crazed  business  associate  who  at-: 
tempted  to  murder  Lew  Archer  set  off  a 
series  of  minor  explosions  in  the  Burton; 
family.  Will  Terry's  snobbish  mother-in- 
law  ever  forget  how  the  family  name  wasi 
dragged  through  the  press?  Will  Marcia, 
Lew's  wife,  defy  her  mother  again?  CBS; 
Radio. 

THE  SECRET  STORM  Pauline  Harris 
scheme  for  keeping  Peter  and  Jane  apart: 
succeeds  more  brilliantly  than  she  dared 
hope.  For  the  sudden  dramatic  reappear- 
ance of  the  husband  she  believed  dead: 
puts  more  than  a  legal  obstacle  in  the  way 
of  Jane's  marriage  to  Peter.  Can  Bruce 
really  win  Jane  back  to  the  love  they  once 
shared?  What  happens  when  Pauline  gains 
a  new  enemy  in  Julie,  the  girl  Bruce 
might  have  married?  CBS-TV. 


THIS  IS  NORA  DRAKE  Nora  feels  that, 
with  Anna  Wheeler's  help,  she  and  David 
Brown  are  getting  closer  to  the  heart  of 
the  mystery  surrounding  the  death  of 
Jerome  Joss.  Is  Anna's  husband  Hudson 
the  real  murderer — or  will  it  turn  out  to 
be  David's  boss,  Alan  Miller?  And  why 
does  David's  sister  Lorraine  refuse  to  be- 
lieve that  her  own  father  was  unjustly  ac- 
cused? CBS  Radio. 

VALIANT  LADY  Reporter  Elliott  Norris 
faces  a  heartbreaking  dilemma  as  he  tries 
to  weigh  a  binding  responsibility  against 
his  new-found  but  very  deep  feeling  for 
Helen  Emerson.  Can  he  stand  by  and  see 
her  turn  to  another  man  because  he  can- 
not hurt  his  ward,  Peggy?  Is  it  love  or 
selfishness  that  motivates  Peggy's  effort  to 
convince  Elliott  that  he  could  be  happy 
with  her?  CBS-TV. 

WENDY  WARREN  AND  THE  NEWS 

Wendy  would  not  admit  to  anyone  that 
there  have  been  times  when  she  wondered 
if  she  had  allowed  Paul  Benson  to  come 
into  her  life  because  he  reminded  her  a 
little  of  her  dead  husband,  Mark.  Paul  also 
is  talented,  selfish,  and  neurotic.  Is  he  per- 
haps more  than  neurotic — and  is  that  the 
reason  his  sister  keeps  such  a  vigilant  eye 
on  all  his  activities?  Can  Wendy  and  Bar- 
bara ever  trust  each  other?   CBS  Radio. 

WHEN  A  GIRL  MARRIES  There  are 
many  ways  of  being  helpful  to  others,  and 
during  their  many  happy  years  in  Birch- 
wood  Joan  and  Harry  Davis  have  made 
ise  of  most  of  them.  Each  week  Joan  tells 
the  story  of  some  crisis  in  which  she  and 
Harry  managed  to  be  of  use  to  their 
riends — or.  just  as  often,  found  themselves 
ivolved  with  strangers  who  were  quick  to 
realize  what  good  friends  the  Davises 
could  be.  ABC  Radio. 

WHISPERING  STREETS  Walls  do  not 
have  ears,  nor  do  streets  actually  whisper, 
but  a  trained  observer  like  Hope  Winslow 
knows  there  are  stories  to  be  learned  al- 
most anywhere  by  those  who  know  how  to 
look  for  them  and  how  to  listen.  Some  of 
the  stories  Hope  tells  she  has  learned  by 
looking  and  listening,  but  some  of  them 
are  stories  in  which  she  has  plaved  an  ac- 
tive,   generally    vital,    part.    ABC    Radio. 

THE  WOMAN  IN  MY  HOUSE  James 
and  Jessie  Carter  have  been  involved  in 
romance,  one  way  or  another,  ever  since 
their  children  started  growing  up.  Only 
Jeff,  the  eldest  son,  has  not  bothered  them 
with  this  kind  of  problem  ura  to  the  pres- 
ent. Now  Jessie  wonders  if  Jeff  might  not 
have  been  better  off  remaining  unattached, 
for  Carolyn's  past  creates  so  many  diffi- 
culties that  a  har>oy  future  seems  some- 
what uncertain.  NBC  Radio. 

YOUNG  DR.  MALONE  Nobody  in  the 
Malone  family,  not  even  Tracey,  knows 
how  Dr.  Jerry  Malone  really  feels  about 
the  project  of  moving  to  New  York.  Per- 
haps Jerry  himself  cannot  tell  if  the  ex- 
citement of  breaking  new  ground  is  more 
important  to  him  than  the  unavoidable 
sadness  at  leaving  Three  Oaks.  Would  the 
move  really  benefit  young  David  Malone 
so  much?  And  is  it  possible  it  could  do  Jill 
more  harm  than  good?  CBS  Radio. 

YOUNG  WIDDER  BROWN  Whatever 
promise  of  happiness  the  future  might 
have  held  for  Ellen  Brown  seems  to  have 
vanished  from  the  moment  Dr.  Anthony 
Loring  met  Millicent  Randall.  Even  though 
Millicent's  death  freed  Anthony  from  the 
marriage  that  kept  him  from  Ellen,  the  re- 
venge planned  by  her  father,  Jason  Ran- 
dall, threatens  now  to  ruin  even  Ellen's 
means  of  livelihood.  NBC  Radio. 


UTOL 


new  miracle  antibiotic 
pimple  medication 


...PUTS  YOUR  BEST  FACE  FORWARD! 


The  world  takes  you  at  face  value— 
especially  in  business  and  social  sit- 
uations. More  often  than  not,  you  feel 
the  way  you  look.  So  that's  why  it  is 
so  important  for  you  to  discover  and 
use  UTOL,  the  miracle  antibiotic  skin 
cream  that  is  the  fastest  known  rem- 
edy for  pimples,  acne,  or  other  exter- 
nally caused  skin  blemishes.  UTOL  — 
an  investment  in  your  appearance  and 
peace  of  mind ! 

Hides  as  it  heals 
major  skin  blemishes ! 

Flesh-toned  UTOL  provides  an  im- 
mediate cover-up  for  embarrassing 
skin  eruptions.  Gives  you  new  confi- 
dence and  comfort  at  first  touch  while 


the  antiseptic  healing  activity  goes  on 
underneath.  UTOL  hides  while  it 
heals  . . .  really  works  for  you! 

Here's  How  Utol 
Works— Faster! 

Here's  the  ONLY  antibiotic  skin 
cream!  UTOL,  with  the  magic  of 
antibiotic  Tyrothricin,  kills  the  skin 
bacteria  that  usually  cause  skin  blem- 
ishes. It  contains  a  powerful  soothing 
anesthetic  that  stops  irritating  itch— 
and  the  need  to  scratch.  Laboratory 
and  field  tests  prove— UTOL  dries  up 
pimples  and  the  common  skin  erup- 
tions and  clears  the  skin  in  as  little 
as  10  days! 


*Many  doctors,  nurses,  and 
beauty  specialists  have  endorsed 
UTOL  as  the  quickest,  most  ef- 
fective skin  medication  in  stand- 
ard treatment  for  Contact 
Dermatitis. 


MONEY  BACK  GUARANTEE  Your  mon- 
ey back  in  full  if  UTOL,  available  in 
leading  drugstores  everywhere,  does 
not  in  every  way  live  up  to  every 
claim  made  for  it. 


A  Product  of 


McKESSON  &  ROBBINS 


21 


By  JOAN  WALLACE 


Welcome  aboard  our  musical  caravan! 
I'll  be  going  'round  and  'round  with 
the     latest     record     releases     each 
month,   reporting   to   you   on   what's   new 
and  listenable  in  the  world  of  wax. 

Let's  lead  off  with  Frank  Sinatra,  who 
always  seems  to  be  singing  something 
new.  For  example,  "How  Little  We  Know" 
and  "Five  Hundred  Guys,"  with  Nelson 
Riddle's  orchestra.  The  first  side  is  a 
pretty  ballad,  the  second  a  rhythm  tune 
all  about  "a  thousand  eyes  for  my  gal  who 
only  has  eyes  for  me."  This  was  the  last 
record  Frankie  made  before  taking  off  for 
European  movie-making — and  maybe  a 
reunion  with  Ava  Gardner?  (Capitol) 
"The  Bob  Crosby  Show"  is  the  name  of 
a  new  album,  twelve  sides  in  all,  by  Bob 
and  the  troupe  from  his  popular  CBS-TV 
program.  Bob,  Carol  Richards,  Joanie 
O'Brien,  Charlie  Teagarden,  The  Modern- 
aires  and  The  Bobcats  are  all  represented, 
doing  comic,  sentimental  and  bouncy 
numbers  they  have  done  on  their  pro- 
gram, ending  with  the  hymn,  "Whisper- 
ing Hope."     (Columbia) 

If  you're  interested  in  some  good  mu- 
sic-to-dance-to,  you'll  be  interested  in 
M-G-M's  new  "Designed  for  Dancing 
Series,"  a  group  of  individual  albums,  with 


twelve  selections  in  each.  For  more  or 
less  straight  ballroom  stuff,  try  "Cole 
Porter  Medleys  From  Hit  Shows,"  by  Jer- 
ry Jerome  and  his  orchestra;  "Latin  Amer- 
ican Tempos,"  by  Rene  Touzet  and  his 
orchestra,  will  fill  the  bill  for  the  mambo 
and  cha-cha-cha  addicts;  "The  Merengue," 
by  Frank  Damiron's  orchestra,  spotlights 
the  tempo  of  the  same  name  for  those  who 
go  for  this  new  Latin  rhythm;  "Teen  Age 
Dance  Party,"  with  George  Russell  and 
his  orchestra,  has  everything  from  jitter- 
bug to  polka;  and  if  dosey-do  is  your 
specialty,  Carson  Robison  has  a  set  of 
"Square  Dances." 

The  Four  Top  Hatters  are  hoping  for  top 
billing  with  their  new  waxing  of  an  old 
ballad,  "I'll  Never  Stand  in  Your  Way," 
and  the  novelty,  "One  Arabian  Night," 
which  the  group  has  done  with  a  Latin 
beat,  with  Archie  Bleyer's  orchestra. 
These  are  the  boys,  incidentally,  who 
made  the  original  recording  of  the  hit, 
"Dim  Dim  the  Lights,"  before  Bill  Haley's 
Comets  waxed  the  tune.   (Cadence) 

"The  Champagne  Magic  of  Lawrence 
Welk"  is  the  newest  album  entry  by  the 
popular  accordionist-maestro  and  his  crew. 
In  this  set,  Welk  revives  such  well- 
known  oldies  as  "Bubbles  in  the  Wine," 


22 


The  Three  Girls — Beryl    Davis,    Connie   Haines,   Jane    Russell — used   to   sing 
mainly  inspirational  songs.  Now,  on  Capitol,  they're  invading  the  pop  field. 


"Ain't  She  Sweet,"  "Beer  Barrel  Polka," 
"My  Donna  Lee,"  and  "Linger  Awhile." 
Vocal  credits  go  to  Walter  Bloom,  Jayne 
Walton,  Parnell  Grina,  Bob  Pace.   (Coral) 

Joni  James  has  a  way  with  a  torch  song 
and  a  sad  ballad,  and  in  her  latest  album, 
"Little  Girl  Blue,"  she  sings  twelve  stand- 
ards, all  with  the  poignant  touch.  In- 
cluded are  such  songs  as  "In  Love  in 
Vain,"  "These  Foolish  Things  Remind  Me 
of  You,"  "I'm  Through  With  Love,"  and 
the  title  song,  "Little  Girl  Blue."  David 
Perry  conducts  the  orchestra.   (M-G-M) 

Harry  Belafonte's  newest  effort  is  an 
album  titled  simply  "Calypso."  With  the 
assistance  of  Millard  Thomas'  guitar  and 
Tony  Scott's  orchestra  and  chorus,  Bela- 
fonte  does  such  calypso  ditties  as  "I  Do 
Adore  Her,"  "Man  Smart,"  "Jamaica  Fare- 
well," "Brown  Skin  Girl,"  and  "The 
Jack-Ass  Song."   (Victor) 

Rosemary  Clooney  and  Duke  Ellington 
have  teamed  talents  for  a  most  interesting 
album,  "Blue  Rose."  Rosemary  sings  all 
Ellington  compositions,  including  the  al- 
ways popular  "Sophisticated  Lady,"  "I've 
Got  It  Bad  and  That  Ain't  Good,"  "I  Let  a 
Song  Go  Out  of  My  Heart,"  and  "Mood 
Indigo,"  accompanied,  of  course,  by  the 
Ellington  band  and  aided  by  fine  arrange- 
ments by  the  Duke  and  Billy  Strayhorn. 
The  title  tune,  "Blue  Rose,"  is  a  brand 
new  Ellington  instrumental,  named  for 
Rosie,  and  she  croons  an  interesting  word- 
less vocal   to   it.     (Columbia) 

Chris  Dane,  the  Swedish  baritone,  has 
recorded  two  waltzes  in  his  continuing  bid 
for  American  favor.  He  sings  the  stand- 
ard, "My  Isle  of  Golden  Dreams,"  and  a 
new  European  song,  "Serenade  of  the 
Mandolins,"  with  orchestral  accompani 
ment.  Chris,  who  waxed  both  of  these 
sides  in  Stockholm,  where  he  is  well- 
known,  has  a  slight  Swedish  accent  and  a 
vocal  style  reminiscent  of  the  early  Dick 
Haymes.   (Cadence) 

"That  Sentimental  Gentleman"  is  the 
appropriate  title  for  an  album  by  Tommy 
Dorsey  and  his  famous  band  of  several 
years  ago.  Each  tune  in  this  set  was  a 
hit  as  a  single  when  originally  released. 
You'll  certainly  remember  such  great  old 
T.D.  favorites  as  "Song  of  India,"  with 
Tommy's  beautiful  trombone  solo,  "Heat 
Wave,"  "And  the  Angels  Sing,"  with  vocal 
by  Johnny  Mercer  and  trumpet  solo  by 
Ziggy  Elman,  and  "How  Am  I  To  Know," 
sung  by  Frank  Sinatra  when  he  was  the 
Dorsey   band   singer.     (Victor) 

Sarah  Vaughan  surely  shows  off  her 
versatility  on  her  new  recording  of  "Hot 
and  Cold  Running  Tears"  and  "That's  Not 
the  Kind  of  Love  I  Want."  The  "Divine 
Sarah,"  as  she  is  affectionately  known  in 


Sinatra  kept  a  record  date,  then 
left  for  Europe,  films — and  Ava? 


le  music  trade,  swings  out  the  lyrics  on 
the  "Tears"  side  in  true  jazz  style.  And 
on  the  coupling,  which  is  a  torchy  ballad, 
she's  at  her  most  soulful.   (Mercury) 

Jackie  Gleason  got  the  big  ha-ha  from 
lis  show-business  pals  a  couple  of  years 
ago  when  he  decided  to  play  it  serious 
with  a  baton.  But  the  Gleason  albums 
have  been  tasteful  musical  presentations 
id,  incidentally,  consistent  good  sellers 
m-  Capitol.  His  newest  is  "Night  Winds," 
set  of  standards,  played  by  the  big  or- 
lestra  Jackie  always  uses. 
Frankie  Laine  has  a  new  coupling  which 
lould  add  to  the  Laine  laurels.  With 
Jaul  Weston's  orchestra  and  The  Mello- 
len,  Frankie  sings  "Don't  Cry,"  a  ballad 
rom  the  new  Broadway  musical  comedy, 
"The  Most  Happy  Fella."  On  the  flip- 
over,  Frankie  tears  through  a  new  novel- 
ditty,  "Ticky,  Ticky  Tick,"  with  Jimmy 
Carroll's    orchestra.     (Columbia) 

The  McGuire  Sisters  have  another  bell 
ringer    in    "Delilah    Jones"    and    "Picnic," 
with  orchestra  and  chorus  credit  going  to 
)ick  Jacobs.     "Delilah,"  from  the  movie, 
"The  Man  With  the  Golden  Arm,"  has  a 
cute   lyric,   and   the   girls   sing   it   with   a 
trong    beat.    The    lyric   to    the    beautiful 
leme  music  from  the  film,  "Picnic,"  was 
written  by  Steve  Allen,  and  the  McGuire 
asses    harmonize    in    their    usual    smooth 
tyle.     Steve  Allen  also  has  his   own  re- 
cording of  "Picnic,"  done  by  his  big  or- 
chestra   and    chorus.     (Coral) 
M-G-M  Records  is  excited  about  their 
atest  vocal  discovery,  Ocie  Smith,  a  twen- 
-one-year-old  newcomer  who  possesses 
lusty,  baritone  voice.    For  his  first  com- 
mercial release,  Ocie  sings  "Lost  Horizon," 
one  of  the  big  songs  from  the  Broadway 
lusical,    "Shangri-La,"    and    an    up-beat 
"lythm  tune,  "Going,  Going,  Gone."    Joe 
jpman's  orchestra  on  both.     Ocie  got  his 
ecord  start  via  many  demonstration  discs 
le  did  for  publishers,  so  they  could  listen 
new    popular    songs.    When    M-G-M 
secutives  heard  him,  they  were  so  im- 
pressed that  they  signed  him  to  a  contract. 
Capitol    has    a    new    vocal    trio,    to    be 
known  henceforth  as   "The  Three  Girls." 
The    ladies    answer    individually    to    the 
names  of  Jane  Russell,  Connie  Haines  and 
Beryl  Davis,  and  for  their  first  recording 
as  a  threesome  they've  chosen  "He's  Got 
Time"  and  "The  Magic  of  Believing,"  with 
Lyn  Murray  at  the  baton.    The  girls  used 
to  be  a  quartet,  with  Rhonda  Fleming  as 
the    fourth    voice,    but    conflicting    movie 
ledules  have  forced  Rhonda  to  drop  out. 
He   group   previously   sang   mainly   reli- 
ous  and  inspirational  songs,  but  now,  as 
"ie    Three    Girls,"    they    are    venturing 
the  pop  field,  as  well. 


Looking  For  An  Easier, 
More  Enjoyable  Way  To  Make 


MAKE  *75*  OM  1  BOX.. 


V 


BETTY  SANDER 

Cardinal  Dealer  Advisor 
has  helped  thousands 
earn  extra  income. 


$ 


750  ON  10  BOXES ... 


EXCLUSIVE! 

'25.Card*GOLDLUXURY"> 

Christmas  Assortment 

You  make  75$  Profit 
on  Each  $1.25  Box 


EXCLUSIVE! 
//^SIMPLY  COLOSSAL" 
if  Christmas  Assortment 

I  4  assortments  in  one  big  boxl  i 
\        24  cards  for  $1.25 


EXCLUSIVE  FAST  SELLER! 
"PRETTY 
TALL" 
HRISTMAS  ASSORTMENT 


EXaUS/VE.'f 

New  Low  Cost 

PERSONALIZED  ' 

Christmas  Cards 

50  original 

designs  at. 

^40  for  $1.50,  up  I 

Vith  Name, 

ORGANIZATIONS' 

Send  coupon  for ' 
quick  and  easy 
earning  plan. 


ON  100  BOXES 

of  EXCLUSIVE  New 
Gold  Luxury  TALL  Cards! 


What's  New  and  EXCLUSIVE 
Christmas  Cards  for  1956 


You'll  make  more  money  in  less  time 
by  showing  friends  famous  Cardinal 
Christmas  Card  ORIGINALS— not 
available  elsewhere.  These  great  val- 
ues sell  fast;  pay  you  big  profits. 
Like  75j5  on  our  beautiful  new  "Gold 
Luxury"  $1.25  TALL  card  assort- 
ment. This  quickly  adds  up  to  big 
money.  Many  folks,  young  and  old, 
make  hundreds  of  dollars  and  new 
friends  this  pleasant,  spare-time 
way.  You  can  do  it,  too,  just  by 
showing  samples  we  furnish! 

With  More  To  Show,  Your  Earnings  Grow! 

We  have  many  more  EXCLUSIVES  than  shown  here. 
So  much  to  choose  from,  you're  bound  to  please  everyone. 
There  are  250  fast-sellers— the  best  in  Personalized  Christ- 
mas Cards  and  Assortments;  exclusive  TALL,  Religious 
or  Humorous  Cards  in  21-Card 
boxes;  sensational  Gift  Wraps  BY- 
THE-YARD;  new  Personalized 
Stationery;  dozens  of  exciting,  new 
Gift  Novelties.  Cardinal  pays  you 
as  high  as  150%  profit  PLUS  up  to 
6%   EXTRA  CASH  BONUS. 
Money-back  Guarantee  assures  you 
up  to  20  fS  more  profit  per  box! 

See  Samples  At  No  Cost 

Send  no  money — just  the  coupon. 
Jjh  I  You'll  get  your  big  sample  outfit  on 

h!   ^BOB^f       approval  by  return  mail  and  can 
^^        start  earning  at  once.  If  not  de- 
'***'  lighted,  return  samples  at  our  ex- 

pense. Personalized  Samples  FREE 
and  many  surprise  offers  including 
EXTRA  SAMPLES  AT  10f!  and 
valuable  Gift  FREE  for  prompt 
action.  Mail  coupon 

TODAY! 


'«■  Guaranteed  by  *' 
.Good  Housekeeping 


4 


'i^Tllwtm 


FREE 

For  Prompt 
Action! 


*&  a. 


Mr  .&  Mrs.  S.  Clans 


[  POP-UP  TOASTER 

Salt  &  Pepper  Set 

— novelty  of  the 

year — free  on 

prompt  action 

offer  I 


[EXCLUSIVE! 

NEW  GIFT  WRAPS 
BY-THE-YARD 

One  SUPER  ROLL, 
56  ft.  long— high  as| 
a  5-story  building.' 
Wraps  largest  and 
i  smallest  gifts  with- 
out waste.  $1.25. 


MAIL  NOW  FOR  SAMPLES! 


CARDINAL  CRAFTSMEN, 

1400  State  Ave.,  Dept.H-29 

Cincinnati  14,  Ohio 

Please  send  me  exclusive  money-making  samples  en 

approval  and  full  facts  on  your  surprise  offers  including 

GIFT  FREE  for  prompt  action. 


1400  State   Ave.,   Depl.(332i 
Cincinnati   14,  Ohio 


Name 

Address 

City Zone . 


.State. 


I 
.J 


23 


NEW  DESIGNS  FOR  LIVING 


24 


7113 — Stunning  new  apron,  fashioned  of 
remnants  in  the  form  of  a  big  beautiful 
flower!  Embroidery  transfer,  directions 
for    flower-apron     16    inches    long.    25c. 

672 — Flower  medallions  and  leaves  of 
graceful  crochet  make  the  prettiest  new 
set  to  protect  a  chair  or  buffet!  Crochet 
directions  for  chair-back  12  x  15  inches; 
armrest  12  x  6V2  inches,  using  No.  30  mer- 
cerized cotton.  25c 

756 — Just  two  main  pattern  parts  to  make 
this  gay,  cool  maternity  top !  Sew  two 
smart  versions — trim  with  colorful  scroll 
embroidery.  Maternity  Misses'  Sizes  12- 
20.  Tissue  pattern,  transfers.  State  size.  25c 

869 — Just  a  few  hours  to  crochet  a  pretty 
doily  for  table  or  chair!  Three  different 
styles  included.  Use  No.  50  mercerized  cot- 
ton (7  and  7*/2  inch  round;  and  9  x  12  inch 
oval).  To  increase  size,  No.  30  or  bed- 
spread cotton.  25c 

808 — Roses  in  color  sparkle  on  this  TV 
cover !  They're  solid  crochet — standing  out 
in  life-like  form  against  a  lovely  back- 
ground. Larger,  26  inches  in  No.  30  mer- 
cerized cotton;  smaller,  using  No.  50.  25c 

7076 — Colorful  birds  of  every  state  are 
embroidered  on  this  most  unusual  quilt! 
Diagrams,  transfers  of  all  48  state  birds  in- 
cluded. Quilt  measures  72x102  inches.  25c 

769 — Prize  winning  filet  crochet!  Great 
big  rose  squares,  12  inches  in  string.  You'll 
make  a  magnificent  bedspread  or  table- 
cloth and  scarf  in  no  time  at  all.  One 
square  makes  a  place  mat.  Crochet  chart 
directions  included.  25c 


Send  Twenty-five  cents  (in  coins)  for  each  pattern  to:  TV  Radio  Mirror,  Needlecraft  Service,  P.O.  Box  137,  Old  Chelsea  Station. 
New  York  11,  New  York.  Add  five  cents  for  each  pattern  for  first-class  mailing.  Send  an  additional  25c  for  Needlecraft  Catalog. 


INFORMATION  BOOTH 

(Continued  from  page  8) 


Dad's  day  is  year-round  for  Paul  Mc- 
Grath,  Bobby  Alford  and  Joan  Lazer. 


Every  Day  Is  Father's  Day 

/    would   appreciate    some    information 

about  the  cast  of  My  Son  Jeep,  CBS  Radio. 

M.  H.,  Long  Beach,  N  Y. 

Paul  McGrath,  who  stars  as  the  widow- 
er, Dr.  Robert  Allison,  and  copes  with  his 
irrepressible  script  children,  Jeep  and 
teen-aged  Peggy,  has  CBS  Radio  audiences 
celebrating  Father's  Day  every  night.  Paul 
decided  to  concentrate  on  broadcasting 
and  stage  work,  in  order  to  establish  a 
permanent  New  York  home  with  his  lovely 
actress  wife,  Lulu  Mae  Hubbard.  Millions 
trembled  to  his  voice  when  he  hosted  Inner 
Sanctum.  Thousands  have  applauded  his 
stage  appearances  in  several  Theater 
Guild  productions.  And  countless  num- 
bers have  enjoyed  his  Hollywood  films. 
The  Chicago-born  actor  tossed  aside  his 
engineering  slide-rule  at  Carnegie  Tech 
when  he  was  eighteen,  so  that  he  could 
build  a  career  of  his  hobby — acting.  Now, 
three  decades  later,  his  name  in  radio, 
stage  and  films  is  followed  by  formidable 
lists  of  roles.  On  daytime's  This  Is  Nora 
Drake,  he  is  heard  as  Detective  Claud- 
hill.  Nightly,  he  pays  tribute  to  father.  .  .  . 
Bobby  Alford  was  chosen  from  nearly  one 
hundred  aspirants  for  the  role  of  Jeep. 
The  red-haired,  freckle-faced  eleven-year- 
old  won  recognition  when  he  was  voted 
the  "Fledgling  Pilot"  of  1950.  Born  at 
Mitchel  Field  Air  Base— where  his  father, 
Captain  W.  E.  Alford,  is  a  pilot — Bobby 
began  training  in  dramatics  when  he  won 
a  contest  doing  a  monologue  written  by  his 
mother.  After  microphone  seasoning  on 
a  local  radio  show  near  his  home  in  East 
Meadow,  Long  Island,  Bobby  acted  in  sev- 
eral radio  series.  He's  "pretty  good 
friends"  with  his  little  brother,  Rickey, 
and  is  a  baseball  fan,  a  Cub  Scout,  and  is 
good  at  airplane  modeling.  He  thinks  he'd 
like  to  be  a  pilot  like  his  dad,  but,  mean- 
time, he's  concentrating  on  being  a  script 
veteran,  like  his  radio  dad.  .  .  .  Joan  Lazar, 
the  petite,  teen-aged  sister  Peggy  of  My 
Son  Jeep,  has  been  a  thespian  since  the 
age  of  six.  Her  kindergarten  dream  came 
(Continued  on  page  27) 


Only  with 
Lady  Esther 
can  you  . . . 


tjouJUdff  pottle*,! 

And,  oh,  how  much  prettier  you  will  be  when  you  powder  your  face 
with  Lady  Esther  Face  Powder.  No  other  powder  has  ever 

been  able  to  duplicate  its  smooth,  natural-looking  finish, 
its  long,  long  clinging  quality,  the  radiant  glow 
it  gives  your  complexion! 
Try  it — today!  A  pretty  girl,  a  pretty  woman  makes 
hearts  skip  and  sing,  so  powder  yourself 
prettier  with  Lady  Esther  Face  Powder. 


Qlorwui  new  summer  shade 
NUT   BRONZE 


?\tH^ 


©1956, 

Lady  Esther,  _Div 


In  both  loose  face 

powder  and  Puff  3\iagic 

pressed  powder 


25 


The  one  and  only  after-shaving  {underarm)  deodorant,  and  anti-perspirant. 


.And  then  Fresh  Stick  !  Imagine  ! 


The  only 
anti-perspirant 
you  can  use 
any  time.  \ . 
even  after 
shaving. 


Fresh  scientists  discovered 
it— the  new  patented  in- 
gredient combination  that 
made  all  this  possible.  It's  ob- 
tainable only  in  New  Fresh  Stick. 
New  Fresh  Stick  gets  under- 
arms dry,  really  dry,  in  seconds 
.  .  .  ends  all  danger  of  perspira- 
tion and  odor.  And  still  it's 
safe  for  normal  skin.  In  addition, 
it's  the  only  one  that  goes  on  dry, 
invisibly,  without  any  greasy  or 
runny  messiness. 


In  New  Fresh  Stick  you  use  this 
highly  effective  formula  full 
strength.  It's  so  gentle,  you  can 
shave  your  underarms  first  and 
use  it  immediately.  Something 
every  other  anti-perspirant  cau- 
tions you  against.  In  fact,  New 
Fresh  Stick  helps  guard  against 
after-shave  infection.  It's  actu- 
ally antiseptic. 

Ever  hear  of  anything  like  it? 
It's  the  newest— and  greatest  for 
daylong  protection. 


fp»h 


is  a  registered  trademark  of  Pharma-Craft  Corporation 


INFORMATION  BOOTH 

(Continued  from  page  25) 

true  when  she  became  one  of  the  enchant- 
ing characters  on  CBS  Radio's  Let's  Pre- 
tend. She  was  an  honor  student  at  Profes- 
sional Children's  School  and  starred  as 
half  of  one  of  the  youngest  ad-lib  teams 
in  radio  history,  on  a  juvenile  discussion 
program.  Critics  cited  her  as  the  year's 
"most  promising  actress"  when  she  played 
the  part  of  Rosalie  in  the  stage  version  of 
"The  Goldbergs."  Joan  is  currently  en- 
rolled at  New  York  and  Columbia  Uni- 
versities and  at  the  Actors'  Studio. 

Calling  All  Fans 

The  following  clubs  invite  new  members. 
If  you  are  interested  in  joining,  write  to 
address  given,  not  to  TV  Radio  Mirror. 

Pat  Brady  Fan  Club,  c/o  Julia  Tiede- 
mann,  345  W.  28  St.,  New  York,  N.  Y. 

Janette  Davis  Fan  Club,  c/o  Ann  Melillo, 
82-60  Austin  St.,  Kew  Gardens,  N.  Y. 

Jay  Silverheels  Fan  Club,  c/o  Wilma 
Arnold,  R.R.S.,  Box  95,  Franklin,  Ind. 

Pupils'  Pet 

We  would  like  to  know  more  about  our 

favorite  teacher,  Mr.  Wizard,  on  NBC-TV . 

J.  R.  and  M.  H.,  Brooklyn,  N.   Y. 

When  millions  of  youngsters  take  time 
out  from  the  playground  on  Saturdays  for 
a  science  lesson,  it  all  goes  to  prove  an  old 
adage:  There  is  no  such  thing  as  a  poor 
pupil — if  he's  got  a  good  teacher.  That's, 
why  Mr.  Wizard  can  count  over  three  mil- 
lion star  pupils.  .  .  .  His  de-mystification 
of  science  is  no  mystery — it  can  be  done 
in  the  kitchen,  avers  Mr.  Wizard.  His 
credo  is,  "Never  use  an  Ehlenmeyer  flask 
when  a  milk  bottle  will  do."  .  .  .  Mr.  Wiz- 
ard's real  name  is  Don  Herbert  and  his 
entertaining-teaching  prowess  is  no  acci- 
dent, for  he  has  degrees  in  both  general 
science  and  dramatics.  While  still  at  La 
Crosse  (Wisconsin)  Teachers  College,  Don 
earned  extra  money  with  a  magic  act,  a 
guitar  and,  during  vacations,  at  summer- 
theater  work.  .  .  .  The  handsome  pedant 
is  not  the  least  bit  pedantic.  He  has  an 
easy  grin  and  a  wide-open  sense  of  hu- 
mor. A  devoted  family  man,  Don  Herbert 
relaxes  at  his  Mediterranean-style  home  in 
Bronxville,  New  York,  with  his  lovely  wife, 
the  former  Maraleita  Dutton,  and  their  two 
sons,  Jeffrey  Dutton,  aged  three,  and  Jay 
Bigelow,  two.  Don's  an  inveterate  pipe 
smoker,  golfer  and  badminton  player.  His 
household  is  rounded  out  by  his  pets: 
Marc,  a  brown  French  poodle,  Malesh,  a 
Siamese  cat,  and  Neutron,  a  green  parrot. 
.  .  .  But  the  teacher's  favorite  pet  is  that 
of  his  Saturday  pupils — it's  Mr.  Wizard! 


FOR  YOUR  INFORMATION— If  there's 
something  you  want  to  know  about  radio 
and  television,  write  to  Information  Booth, 
TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East  42nd  St.,  New 
York  17,  N.  Y.  We'll  answer,  if  we  can, 
provided  your  question  is  of  general  inter- 
est. Answers  will  appear  in  this  column — ■ 
but  be  sure  to  attach  this  box  to  your 
letter,  and  specify  whether  your  question 
concerns  radio  or  TV. 


Uiwritk 


'  I 


Lady  Esther 
Sheer  Flattery 
Creme  Make-Up 


flW  iitok  towfefatbu! 


A  piece  of  paper  can  show  you  quicker  than  anything  else  how  good 

your  make-up  is.  Smears,  streaks,  lines,  pores  show  up  on  paper  at  a 
glance — the  way  they  show  up  on  your  skin  at  close  range.  And  you 
can  see  for  yourself  how  much,  much  smoother  Lady  Esther's 
new  Sheer  Flattery  is  than  other  make-ups  tested. 

Sheer  Flattery  is  a  new  sheerer  than  sheer,  creamier  creme  make-up  that 

smooths  on  so  easily  .  .  .  smooths  over  every  blemish  so  evenly,  you  can 
be  absolutely  confident  that  the  closer  he  looks  the  lovelier  you'll  look. 
No  other  make-up — cream,  liquid,  or  cake — can  give  you  such 

wonderful  close-up  confidence  in  your  complexion  as  Lady  Esther's 
new  Sheer  Flattery!  Just  look  at  the  paper  test!  It  shows  the  difference! 


6  nw'SKIN-HARMONy  shades 

blend  perfectly  with  natural  skin  tones 

Stunning  pink  and  French  Gray  case 

YQ^  plus  tax 

price  slightly  higher  in  Canad 


SHEER    FLATTERY 
Creme  Make-Up 


©1956  by  Lady  Esther,  Div. 

- 


A 


~4 


ess 


Only  New  Design  Modess  gives  you  the  luxury  .  .  .  the 
gentleness  of  the  fabric  covering  that's  soft  as  a  whisper. 


Patti  Page  points  the  surest  way 
to  stardom  (but  you'll  have  to 
find  Prince  Charming  for  yourself) 

By  ED  MEYERSON 


Path  Page  sat  on  the  terrace  of  her  Manhattan 
apartment,  surrounded  by  stacks  of  mail.  It 
would  take  hours  just  to  read  all  the  letters, 
let  alone  answer  them.  But  Patti,  grateful  for  the 
loyalty  and  affection  of  her  fans,  insists  upon  doing 
both.  .  .  .  "Without  them,  I'd  be  nothing,"  she 
says — and,  without  a  secretary,  she  would  obvi- 
ously get  nowhere  .  .  .  for  Patti  has  a  tendency  to 
daydream  over  each  letter.  It's  as  though  she  can 
actually  see  the  person  who  wrote  it.  Or  is  it  that 


For  all  the  hard  work  and  hopeful  dreams,  Patti  Page 
still  can't  quite  believe  she's  now  "in  the  same  class  as 
Perry  Como"  and  can  count  him  as  a  personal  friend. 


Two  kinds  of  rhythm: 
Left,  Patti  "gets  into 
the  swing,"  as  pianist 
Rocky  Cole  takes  over 
on  the  drums.  Below, 
she  learns  new  gestures 
to  put  over  a  song,  as 
taught  by  her  fiance, 
Charles  O'Curran,  the 
noted     dance     director. 


30 


&Se 


(Continued) 


she  can  see  herself  in  each  letter — herself 
as  she  used  to  be? 

But  to  work!  First,  there  are  the  requests 
for  her  picture.  These  merely  require  an 
autograph.  Then  there  are  the  letters  which 
tell  her  how  wonderful  she  is.  .  .  .  "Who — 
me?"  Patti  cries,  scarcely  recognizing  her- 
self among  all  the  adjectives.  And  her  secre- 
tary must  remind  her:  "You  don't  have  to 
argue  with  your  fans.  Just  thank  them." 

Then  come  the  letters  which  ask  her  "frank 
and  honest"  opinion.  Do  you  think  it's  all 
right  if  a  girl  smokes?  Which  records  should 
I  buy  for  my  collection?  If  you  were  me, 
what  clothes  would  you  wear  to  this  party? 

The  answers  to  these  questions  are  easy, 
compared  with  what  Patti  calls  the  "prob- 
lem" letters.  "And  who  am  I  to  give  advice?" 
she  laments  to  the  heavens.  "I  don't  know 
enough."  .  .  .  But  she  (Continued  on  page  88) 

The  Patti  Page  Show  is  sponsored  across  the  nation 
by  Oldsmobile  Dealers  of  America  (see  local  papers). 
Patti  also  stars  this  June  in  The  Perry  Como  Show 
time  spot,  on  NBC-TV,  Sat.,  from  8  to  9  P.M.  EDT. 


Next,  Patti  sings  and  acts  the  rhythms  before 


V 


Study,  study,  study:  But  Patti  has 
"Windy,"  Charles's  gift,  beside  her — 
and  maybe   his  letters   in  that  script? 


Dates,  dates,  dates:  Calls  for  inter- 
views, rehearsals,  fittings— plus  those 
private  conversations  with   California. 


Every  Cinderella  must  have  glamour. 
But  it  was  love  that  transformed  Patti 
— more  than  all  her  dreams  of  success. 


mirror — and  Jack  Rael,  "the  man  who  discovered  Cinderella. 


Bravo  from   Charles:  Teacher's   mighty   proud   of  his   girl! 


For  all  the  hard  work  and  hopeful  dreams,  Patti  Page 
still  can't  quite  believe  she's  now  "in  the  same  class  as 
Perry  Como"  and  can  count  him  as  a  personal  friend. 


(Continued) 


she  can  see  herself  in  each  letter— herself 
as  she  used  to  be? 

But  to  work!  First,  there  are  the  requests 
for  her  picture.  These  merely  require  an 
autograph.  Then  there  are  the  letters  which 
tell  her  how  wonderful  she  is.  .  .  .  "Who— 
me?"  Patti  cries,  scarcely  recognizing  her- 
self among  all  the  adjectives.  And  her  secre- 
tary must  remind  her:  "You  don't  have  to 
argue  with  your  fans.  Just  thank  them." 

Then  come  the  letters  which  ask  her  "frank 
and  honest"  opinion.  Do  you  think  it's  all 
right  if  a  girl  smokes?  Which  records  should 
1  buy  for  my  collection?  If  you  were  me, 
what  clothes  would  you  wear  to  this  party? 
The  answers  to  these  questions  are  easy, 
compared  with  what  Patti  calls  the  "prob- 
lem" letters.  "And  who  am  I  to  give  advice?" 
she  laments  to  the  heavens.  "I  don't  know 
enough."  .  .  .  But  she  {Continued  on  page  88) 

The  Patti  Page  Show  is  sponsored  across  the  nation 
by  Oldsmobile  Dealers  of  America  (see  local  papers). 
Patti  also  stars  this  June  in  The  Perry  Como  Show 
time  spot,  on  NBC-TV,  Sat.,  from  8  to  9  P.M.  EDT. 


Study,  study,  study:  But  Patti  has 
"Windy,"  Charles's  gift,  beside  her — 
and  maybe  his  letters  in  that  script? 


Dates,  dates,  dates:  Calls  for  inter- 
views, rehearsals,  fittings — plus  those 
private  conversations  with   California. 


Every  Cinderella  must  have  glamour. 
But  it  was  love  that  transformed  Patti 
— more  than  all  her  dreams  of  success. 


Next,  Patti  sings  and  acts  the  rhythms  before  o|  mirror— and  Jack  Rael,  "the  man  who  discovered  Cinderella.'1  Bravo  from  Charles:  Teacher's  mighty  proud  of  his  girl! 


Two  kinds  of  rhythm: 
Left,  Patti  "gets  into 
the  swing,"  as  pianist 
Rocky  Cole  takes  over 
on  the  drums.  Below, 
she  learns  new  gestures 
to  put  over  a  song,  as 
taught  by  her  fiance, 
Charles  O'Curran,  the 
noted     dance     director. 


30 


Daddy  Can  Do  Anything 


i 


Prized  wood  carving  of  "The  Last  Supper"  is  background  for  home  portrait  of  Meg,  Danny,  Tony,  Theresa  and  Rosemarie. 

With  faith — and  a  nudge  from  his  admiring  offspring — 

Danny  Thomas  always  finds  time  to  help  a  worthy  cause 


32 


Between  TV  shows  and  benefit  performances,  Danny 
shares  a   real   "loving   cup"   with   wife    Rosemarie. 


By  FREDDA  BALLING 


Probably  you  remember  the  incident  in  The 
Danny    Thomas   Show,    "Make    Room    for 
Daddy,"     which     concerned     Rusty     Hamer, 
Danny's  nine-year-old  "son"  in  the  TV  drama. 
Bitten  by  some  mischievous  bug  from  outer  space, 
Rusty  had  decided  to  manufacture  his  own  flying 
saucers.    He  stuffed  a  series  of  foreign  objects 
into  the  garbage-disposal  on  the  model  home  set 
where  "Make  Room  for  Daddy"  is  photographed, 
flipped  the  switch  .  .  .  and  ostensibly  wrecked  the 
machinery.    Of  course,  the  cataclysm  involved 
Danny,  therefore  much  laughter,  so  everything 
came  out  all  right — script-wise. 

However,  Danny  Thomas'  real-life  scion,  Tony, 
aged  seven,  always  watches  the  program  with  an 
analytical  eye.    He  is  Rusty  Hamer's  greatest  fan, 
regarding  himself  as  a  sort  of  soundwave  brother 
of  the  young  actor,  and  he  (Continued  on  page  82) 


No  one  gives  more  freely  of  his  time  and  talents 
than  Danny,  for  all  worthy  causes.  And  no  project 
is  dearer  to  his  heart  than  the  St.  Jude  Hospital  plans 
which  he  revealed  on  Ed  Murrow's  Person  To  Person. 


Room  for  Daddy?  Above,  Danny  finds  the  Thomas  play- 
room filled  with  college  friends  of  his  daughter  Meg 
(center  right).  Left,  son  Tony  shows  who'd  really  be 
boss,  if  he  had  his  way.  But  Danny  loves  every  minute! 


The  Danny  Thomas  Show,  "Make  Room  for  Daddy,"  is  seen 
over  ABC-TV,  Tuesdays,  at  9  P.  M.  EDT,  as  sponsored  by 
Pall  Mall  Cigarettes  and  the  Dodge  Dealers  of  America. 


33 


Chris  "helps"  on  the  guitar  as  Jan  serenades  baby 
Jonathan,  safe  but  wide-eyed  in  mama  Susan's  arms. 


Susan  Douglas  and  Jan  Rubes 

had  an  American  dream,  which  only 

babies  could  make  come  true ! 

By  MARY  TEMPLE 


34 


On  a  night  last  February,  a  concert  audience 
in  the  town  of  San  Leandro,  California,  got 
an  extra  bonus  in  the  way  of  an  unexpected 
encore.  Jan  Rubes,  young  basso  profundo,  was 
on  stage  finishing  his  songs  when  he  was  sum- 
moned to  answer  a  long-distance  call.  He  ex- 
cused himself  to  the  audience,  leaving  his  accom- 
panist on  stage,  and  came  back  in  a  short  time 
wearing  the  expression  of  a  man  who  has  been 
made  very,  very  happy.  As  indeed  he  had  been. 
At  the  other  end  of  the  wire,  his  wife — Susan 
Douglas,  who  is  Kathy  Grant  in  TV- radio's  The 
Guiding  Light — had  told  him  from  her  hospital 
bed  that  they  had  a  new  son,  Jonathan,  born  at 
2:40  that  morning  of  February  16,  in  New  York 
(it  had  still  lacked  a  few  minutes  before  midnight 
of  February  15  in  the  time  belt  where  he  was 
performing,  but  was  the  next  day  by  Eastern 
time  ).     Now,    announcing    the    arrival    of    their 

The  Guiding  Light  is  sponsored  Monday  through  Friday  bv 


Guess    who?     "It's    Daddy!"    chortles    Chris,    who — like 
Susan — has   learned   to  listen  for  those  treasured  calls. 


Formulas  don't  seem   so  strange,   for  their  second   son, 
but  it's  still  all   part  of  a    miracle  for  Jan   and   Susan. 


second  son  to  the  cheering,  clapping  audience,  Jan 
sang  them  a  final  encore,  a  lovely  lullaby,  that 
brought  down  the  house. 

Ever  since  Susan  Douglas  and  Jan  Rubes  (pro- 
nounced Yon  Roo-besh)  were  married,  on  Sep- 
tember 22,  1950  (they  had  met  in  Montreal, 
Canada,  when  she  was  making  the  movie,  "For- 
bidden Journey,"  and  Jan  played  the  romantic 
lead  opposite  her),  Susan  had  said  that  she 
wanted  at  least  two  one-right-after-the-other 
children.  To  herself,  she  often  said  that  she  would 
be  perfectly  happy  with  two  sons,  like  Jan  and 
his  brother,  but  that  she  didn't  want  an  only 
child,  as  she  had  been.  When  their  first-born, 
Christopher  Jan,  came  on  May  25,  1954,  her  dream 
began  to  come  true. 

Jan  was  home  with  Susan  when  Chris  was 
born,  his  fall  and  winter  concert  tour  over  for 
the  season.   Even  the  day  (Continued  on  page  86) 


So  that's  where  the  calls  come  from!    Pins  on  map  mark  Jan's 
concert  stops — and  he  broadcasts  regularly  from  Canada,  too. 


Playtime — then    off  to   work.   'Leaving   for  the   studio,    Susan 
knows  her  boys  will  be  in  good  hands  with  nurse  "Clem"  Bond. 


. 


the  Procter  &  Gamble  Company— on  CBS-TV,  at  12:45  P.M.  EDT,  for  Ivory,  Duz  and  Cheer— on  CBS  Radio,  at  1:45  P.M.  EDT,  for  Tide  and  Gleem 


35 


Memories  Are  Made  of  This 


Son  Jay,  his  brightest  jewel,  wakes  Dad  up  to  rise  and 
shine.  Later,  George  can  stretch  out  again,  among  the  rare 
furnishings  and  souvenirs  he's  collected  around  the  world. 


**t  * 


George  de  Witt  could  name  that  tune 
.   .    .   and  all  the  treasures 
which  remind  him  of  the  best  in 

By  ALICE  FRANCIS 

If  you  ask  George  de  Witt,  emcee  of  the 
popular  musical  quiz,  Name  That  Tune,  w 
qualities  make   a   good  contestant,   he 
has   the   answer   ready:    "Warmth — and   charm. 
Two  words  that  really  mean  the  same  thing. 
If   contestants   have   those,    they    can   be   a 
little  nervous  or  shy,  but  the  warmth  and 
charm   will   come   through.    And   these    are 
qualities  which  can't  be  faked." 

He  might  have  added  that  these  are  qualities 
important   to   any    television   performer — 
including   emcees,   of  course — the   same 
qualities  which  George  brings  to  TV  screens 
all   over  the   country    (Continued  on  page   91) 

George  de  Witt  is  the  singing  quizmaster  of  Name  That 
Tune,  CBS-TV,  Tuesdays,  7:30  P.M.  EDT,  sponsored  alter- 
nately by  Whitehall  Pharmacal  Co.  and  Lanolin  Plus,  Inc. 


George's  mother  is  a  cherished  link  with  a  happy 
childhood  redolent  of  gay  music — and  good  food. 


Warmth  and  charm  are  what  George  treasures  in  a  contestant.  Dorothy  Olsen  and  Philip  Bock 
had  'em — and  won  $25,000  on  CBS-TV's  Name  That  Tunel  Schoolteacher  Dorothy  also  sang  "The 
Little  White   Duck,"  was  signed   by   RCA   Victor,   and   waxed   a    best-selling    record   of   the   ditty. 


■  V  >  fe# 


Like  father,  like  son:  Jay's  already  a  mimic,  does  im-       Claude,  a  dummy  found  in  an  antique  shop,  now 
personations  at  his  candelabra-bedecked  toy   piano.       with  George  in  ventriloquist  acts  staged  specially 


co-stars 
for  Jay. 


37 


Dennis  and  Micki  had  a  grand  time  fixing  up  the  nursery — complete  with  murals. 


More   fun — opening   the    many 


Micki's  mother,   Mildred  Crawford,   got  into  the  act,   too 
— designing  and  sewing  a   "dream"   maternity  wardrobe. 


Candy,  the  canine,  learned  a  new  role — how  not  to 
be   jealous — rehearsing   with   a    life-size   baby   doll. 


Dennis    James    emcees   Chance    Of   A    Lifetime,   over   ABC-TV,    Sat.,    10    P.M.    EDT,    as    sponsored    by    Lentheric,    Inc.,    and    Bromo-Seltzer. 


38 


delightful  gifts  sent  in  by  James  fans. 

Dennis  and  Miclci  James 
meant  to  keep  the 
stork's  secret.  But  how 
could  they,  when  they 
had  dreamed  so  long? 

By  MARTIN  COHEN 


Dennis  James,  a  boating  enthusiast 
of  the  first  magnitude,  lives 
on  the  edge  of  Long  Island  Sound. 
From  almost  any  room  in  his 
home,  he  can  look  out  on  the  sea  .  .  . 
but  these  days  he's  turning  his  eyes 
to  the  June  sky.  There's  an  air- 
craft on  its  way  to  the  James  home 
...  a  wing-propelled,  single- 
passenger  stork.    "Well,  it  figures 
to  be  single-passenger,"  his  wife 
Micki  said  recently.    "There  are  no 
twins  on  either  side.  We  don't 
expect   them.    But,   on   the   other 
hand,  we  can't  predict.  We  have 
a  pretty  good  idea  of  what  the  baby 
will  look  like,  though." 

The  baby  will  probably  have 
dark  brown  hair,  brown  eyes  and 
a  fair  complexion.    This  isn't 
really  guessing,  because  both  parents 
have  the  same  coloring  .  .  . 
"Dennis  and  I  are  often  taken  for 
brother  and  (Continued  on  page  95) 


Dennis  and  Micki  had  a  grand  time  fixing  up  the  nursery — complete  with  murals. 


More   fun — opening   the   many 


Micki's  mother,   Mildred  Crawford,  got  into  the  act,  too 
designing  and  sewing  a   "dream"   maternity  wardrobe. 


Dennis    James   emcees   Chance    Of    A    Lifetime,   over    ABC-TV,    Sat.,    10    P.M.    EDT,    as    sponsored    by    Lentheric,    Inc.,    and    Bromo-Seltzer. 


delightful  gifts  sent  in  by  James  fans. 

Dennis  and  Micki  James 
meant  to  keep  the 
stork's  secret.  But  how 
could  they,  when  they 
had  dreamed  so  long? 

By  MARTIN  COHEN 

f^ENNis  James,  a  boating  enthusiast 
•*  of  the  first  magnitude,  lives 
on  the  edge  of  Long  Island  Sound. 
*rom  almost  any  room  in  his 
home  he  can  look  out  on  the  sea  .  .  . 
ou i  these  days  he's  turning  his  eyes 
»  the  June  sky.  There's  an  air- 

att  on  Jts  way  to  the  James  home 
■  •  •  a  wmg-propelled,  single- 
Pawenger  stork.    "Well,  it  figures 
J°  be  angle-passenger,"  his  wife 
2°     Said  recently.    "There  are  no 
twins  on  either  side.  We  don't 
expect  them.    But,   on   the   other 


hand, 


we  can't  predict.  We  have 


Candy,  the  canine,  learned  a  new  role — how  not  to 
be   jealous — rehearsing    with   a    life-size   baby   doll. 


Netty  good  idea  of  what  the  baby 

Th    °v.k  Hke'  thouSh." 

darkh       y  WiU  Probably  have 

a  fa;,      Wn  hair>  brown  eyes  and 

reaiv  C°mPlexi°n-    This  isn't 

have  rtTeSSlng'  because  both  parents 

"Denni  6  Same  coloring  .  .  . 

brother  ^  *  are  often  teken  for 
ar|a  (Continued  on  page  95) 


I.  Paul  and  Vanessa  Raven  refuse — as  Meg  had  expected — when  she  brings  them  Hal 
Craig's  warning  to  give  up  little  Carol  .  .  .  "or  else."  As  the  girls'  mother,  Sarah 
Dale,  listens,  Meg  explains  Craig's  frenzy  over  the  locket  Carol  had  seen  by  chance. 


40 


With  love  as  Vanessa's 
ideal — excitement  as  Meg's- 
their  purposes  cross 
in  a  dangerous  mischance 


2.  Ellie  Crown  remembers  the  frightened  child  Carol  had  been  before  she'd 
found  love  and  security  with  her  friend  Vanessa.  Ellie  wonders  what  the 
secret  is  Carol  now  knows — and  which  Craig  will  stop  at  nothing  to  preserve. 


As  alike  as  sisters.  Remembering  that  recent  scene, 
Paul  Raven  can't  help  smiling  wryly  at  the 
familiar  phrase.  There  was  his  wife  Vanessa,  warm 
and  womanly  .  .  .  quick  with  sympathy  .  .  .  eager  to 
give  and  to  receive  love.  And  there  was  her  sister 
Meg  Harper,  high-strung  .  .  .  rebellious  ...  a  magnet 
for  trouble.  It  is  from  that  moment  Paul  dates  the 
cycle  of  events  which  now  send  him  speeding  to  New 
York  on  a  desperate  mission.  Yet,  actually,  the  differ- 
ences between  Vanessa  and  Meg  had  started,  long 
before  that,  to  move  toward  the  present  danger.  .  .  . 
With  an  overflow  of  love  that  cried  out  for  a  child, 
Vanessa  had  persuaded  Paul  to  adopt  one,  after  she 
lost  her  own  baby.  She'd  loved  eight-year-old  Carol 
on  sight,  and  this  is  the  child  whom — despite  her  back- 
ground— Paul  and  Vanessa  took  into  their  home.  .  .  . 
Deserted  by  her  mother,  cruelly  mistreated  by  foster 
parents,  Carol  was  soul-scarred  and  insecure  to  the 
point  where  she'd  lost  the  ability  to  speak.  Yet,  with 
tenderness  and  patience,  Vanessa  restored  to  Carol 
her  trust  in  others,  her  sense  of  being  wanted — and, 
with  these,  her  speech.  Carol  might  have  lived  with 
the  Ravens  as  any  other  normal,  healthy  child  .  .  . 
except  for  the  complications  which,  as  always,  Meg 
has  inadvertently  brought  about.  Meg  has  always 
felt  herself  an  "outsider"  in  Barrowsville.  When  Hal 
Craig  arrived  in  town,  his  also  being  an  outsider 
would  have  been  enough  to  bring  them  together.  But 
Hal  had  still  other  attractions  for  Meg  .  .  .  the  mystery 
of  his  background,  the  sense  of  danger  and  menace 
that  surrounds  him.  Hal  is  deeply  involved  in  the 
seamy  side  of  Barrowsville.  He  has  been  implicated 
in  its  political  scandals  and  has  been  convicted  of 
running  a  gambling  house  on  its  outskirts.  .  .  .  And 
Meg  suspects  that,  in  his  past,  he  has  been  even  more 


closely  connected  with  still  grimmer  underworld .  do- 
ings. On  more  than  one  occasion,  she  has  seen  evidence 
of  Hal's  ruthlessness  when  his  will  is  questioned.  Yet 
Meg  has  only  admiration  for  what  she  calls  his 
strength  and  courage  in  defying  the  very  people  who 
have  always  considered  her  unacceptable,  too.  .  .  .  The 
two  sisters  have  different  purposes  in  life.  And  once 
again,  these  different  viewpoints  clashed  when  little 
Carol,  visiting  Meg  in  her  apartment,  happened  upon 
a  locket  belonging  to  Hal.  When  Hal  learned  that 
Carol  had  looked  into  the  locket,  the  seemingly  harm- 
less incident  sent  him  into  a  frenzy  of  hate — and  fear. 
His  behavior  was  close  to  that  of  a  madman's.  .  .  . 
At  first,  Meg  was  just  curious  about  the  secret  Hal  is 


Pictured  here,  as  seen  on  TV,  are: 

Vanessa  Raven Bonnie   Bartlett 

Meg  Harper Jean  McBride 

Paul  Raven Richard  Coogan 

Hal  Craig Steve  Gethers 

Sarah  Dale Jane  Rose 

Collie  Jordan Carl  Betz 

Carol Tirrell  Barbery 

Ellie  Crown Mary  K.  "Wells 

John  Stephens Harrison  Dowd 

Love  Of  Life,  CBS-TV,  M-F,  12:15  P.M.  EDT,  is  sponsored  by 
Whitehall    Pharmacal,    Boyle-Midway,    and    Chef    BoyArDee. 


See  Next  Page  m 


41 


(Continued) 


3.  Paul  determines  to  lift  the  threat  to  his  family  by  solving  the  mystery 
of  Hal  Craig.  But  first,  to  keep  them  safe,  he  brings  Vanessa  and  Carol, 
with  Ellie  Crown's  help,  to  a  hideaway  cottage  rented  from  John  Stephens. 


42 


so  anxious  to  hide.  But,  when  she  began  to  investi- 
gate, she  found  something  dangerous — and  frighten- 
ing, even  for  her.  .  .  .  Hal  ordered  Meg  to  inform 
Vanessa  and  Paul  that  the  child  must  be  returned  to 
the  orphanage — "or  else."  There  was  no  question  in 
her  mind  about  the  threat  of  violence  Hal  implied — or 
about  his  willingness  to  carry  out  that  threat.  Yet, 
from  the  start,  Meg  had  little  confidence  in  the  success 
of  her  mission.  Knowing  that  Vanessa  now  loves  Carol 
too  deeply  to  give  her  up,  Meg  could  only  fear  that 
both  the  Ravens  would  underestimate  Hal's  readiness 


to  carry  out  his  threats.  .  .  .  Vanessa  did,  at  first,  refuse 
to  be  intimidated.  But  Paul  was  quick  to  see  that 
Craig  had  been  pushed  to  the  brink  of  insanity  by  the 
thought  that  Carol  might  have  learned  some  secret 
from  out  of  his  past.  And  Paul  realized  that  the 
danger  of  violence  hanging  over  his  family  could  be 
dispelled  only  by  discovering  the  cause  of  Hal  Craig's 
terror.  .  .  .  From  Carol,  he  could  learn  nothing — ex- 
cept that  what  she'd  seen  was  a  "family  picture." 
And,  when  Hal  still  refused  to  believe  this  was  all 
Carol  had  seen,  Paul  decided   to  do  some   detective 


4.  Collie  Jordan,  Paul's  friend  and  law  partner,  willingly  joins 
in  the  detective  work.  Paul  tries  to  enlist  Meg's  help,  as  well, 
hoping  that  she  may  have  some  clue  to  Hal  Craig's  sinister  past. 


work  on  his  own,  to  uncover  the  truth  about  Hal.  .  .  . 
Meanwhile,  Paul  urged  Vanessa  to  take  Carol  and 
leave  town  for  a  safe  and  secret  hiding  place.  Re- 
luctantly, she  agreed  to  depart,  accompanied  by  her 
friend  Ellie  Crown.  They  set  out  early  one  morning, 
when  they  wouldn't  be  observed,  and  drove  to  a  small 
vacation  resort  which  was  deserted  in  the  "off"  season. 
Here  they  rented  a  cabin  from  its  owner,  John 
Stephens.  .  .  .  With  Vanessa  and  Carol  hiding  out  at 
the  isolated  resort,  Paul  returned  to  town  and  enlisted 
the  aid  of  his  friend  and  law  partner,  Collie  Jordan. 
They  learn  that  Hal  Craig  has  disappeared  from  Bar- 
rowsville — and  also  discover  that  Craig  had  mysterious 
connections  in  New  York.  Hal's  lawyer  in  Bamws- 
ville  has,  on  occasion,  telephoned  Craig  in  New  York, 
but  the  only  clue  he  can  offer  is  the  number  of  an 
answering  service  used  by  Craig.  With  this  small 
bit  of  information  to  go  on,  Paul  and  Collie  are  pur- 
suing the  Craig  mystery  to  New  York  City.  .  .  .  Hal 
Craig,  from  his  own  hiding  place,  is  desperately  trying 
to  discover  where  Vanessa  and  Carol  have  taken 
refuge.  Having  failed  to  influence  the  Ravens  to  re- 
turn Carol  to  the  orphanage — where  any  information 
she  might  have  gained:  concerning  him  would  be 
least  liable  to  harm  him — Hal  decides  that  he  must 
assure  her  silence  in  any  way  that  will  be  effective. 
He  hires  a  former  accomplice,  Mitch  Larkin,  and  this 
man  has  already  uncovered  some  information  which 
may  shortly  lead  him  to  the  cabin  where  Vanessa  and 
Carol  are  hiding.  ...  As  Paul  Raven  and  Hal  Craig 
track  down  each  other's  secret,  each  knows  how  vital 
it  is  to  get  there  first.  But  Paul  has  only  a  slim  clue 
which  may  lead  anywhere — even  to  a  blind  alley.  .  .  . 
What  lies  ahead  for  Meg,  now  that  the  mystery  of  the 
locket  has  seemingly  ended  her  romance  with  Hal 
Craig?  Above  all,  what  lies  ahead  for  Vanessa,  as  she 
waits  with  Carol  in  that  little  cabin,  fighting  fear  and 
loneliness  with  a  strong  and  abiding  love  of  life? 


5.  Meanwhile,  Hal  Craig  goes  into  hiding 
and,  through  an  accomplice,  works  to  find 
Vanessa  and  Carol — and  insure  their  silence. 


6.  All  Carol  can  tell  Vanessa  and  Paul  is  that  what  she  saw 
was  a  "family  picture."  But  Paul  has  one  other  slim  clue 
to  pursue.   Craig  also  has  a  clue — to  Vanessa's  hideaway! 


43 


Bill    and   Joan    started    making 
music  on  the  air  in  their  teens. 


Today — still    making    music — Joan's 
also  making  formulas  for  wee  Rusty. 


Show   folk   called   them    "our   newly- 
weds" — now  call    Rusty   "our  baby." 


Bob  Crosby  (whose  own  teen-age  daughter  also  sings  on 
his  big  daily  variety  program)  knows  just  how  Joan  feels 
about  eight-month-old  Rusty's  budding  "musical  talents"! 

Joan  O'Brien  sings  on  The  Bob  Crosby  Show,  as  seen  on  CBS-TV, 
Mon.  through  Fri.,  3:30  P.M.  EDT,  under  multiple  sponsorship. 


Joan  O'Brien,  of  Bob  Crosby's  show, 
and  husband  Bill  Strange  are  bringing 
up  a  second  generation  in  TV— radio 

By  BELLA  DUDLEY 

So  you  have  a  pair  of  teensters  in  your  home, 
and   it  seems  to  you   that  they  run   up   toll 
charges  to  an  amount  equaling  the  cost  of 
the  Air  Force  guided-missile  program?    Ha! 
You  should  have  picked  up  the  tab  for  the  first 
telephone    conversation    inspired   by   a    young 
lad  named  Russell  ("Rusty")  Glenn  Strange.    You 
see,  it  was  this  way:  Tennessee  Ernie  Ford.  .  .  . 
Wait  a  moment.    You  say  you  don't  know 
Russell  ("Rusty")  Glenn  Strange  from  a  busy- 
line  buzz?    All  right.   We'll  start  at  the  beginning 
.  .  .  which  was  one  day,  back  in  1950,  when 
Joan  O'Brien — the  porcelain  doll  who  sings   on 
The  Bob  Crosby  Show  five  days  each  week — 
was  just  getting  started  in  professional  vocalistics. 
Aged  fourteen,  she  was  the  singer  on  Cliffie 
Stone's  Hometown  Jamboree,  and  she  ate,  breathed, 
lived  and  dreamed  music  .  .  .  and  admired  those 
who  were  adept  at  manufacturing   lovely 
sounds,  whether  personally  (Continued  on  page  84) 


44 


***■ 


I 


^ 


*fc 


,«>*' 


«W" 


1 


s 


Wfe 


ac^e^^mmm£ 


Music  is  the  heart  of  Frank  Parker's  life  at  home,  as  well  as  on  the  Godfrey  shows 


On  show  and  off,  Frank  and  his  "boss,"  Arthur  Godfrey, 
find  they  have  many  things  in  common — including  a  love  of 
music.    Frank's  latest  outside  venture  is  a  record  company. 


By  FRANCES  KISH 

Frank  Parker  will  always  remember 
the  day  his  father  came  home,  carrying 
the  first  record  player  to  make  its 
appearance  in  their  neighborhood.  Under 
one  arm  was  the  sound  box.    Under 
the  other  was  the  big  horn,  like  a  huge 
trumpet  flower,  from  which  music  soon 
flowed  magically,  now  loud  and  strong, 
now  low  and  sweet.    Neighbors  came 
from  blocks  around  to  hear  the  miracle. 

It  was  the  same  when  Papa  bought 
the  pianola,  also  the  first  ever  owned 
by  anyone  in  their  street.  The  family  was 
hard-pressed  to  find  room  for  everyone 
who  came  to  listen  a  while — then 
stayed  to  watch  the  pierced  cylinders 
revolve,  staring  at  the  foot  pedals  that 
pumped  out  the  music  and  rippled  the 
keys  in  old  and  loved  melodies  and 
new  ones,  too.   For  a  boy  like  Frank, 
already  steeped  in  music  from  earliest 
childhood,  these  were  unforgettable 
experiences  to  be  cherished  forever. 

All  his  life  since,  Frank  Parker  has 
Wanted  a  special  little  corner— or,  better 
still,  a  separate  room — where  he  could 
put  in  the  newest  and  finest  musical 
equipment  for  his  own  enjoyment,  to 
entertain  friends,  and  to  help  him  study 
and  improve  techniques  and  try  out 
some  of  his  ideas  for  more  exciting 
musical  adventures.  So,  when  he  recently 
found  an  apartment  near  the  CBS 
studios  in  New  York  which  had  other 
things  he  wanted  and  which  also  had 
that  prize,  an  extra  room  for  music, 
it  was  like  turning  back  the  pages  of 
his  life  story  and  living  over  the  same 
great  thrills.    "You  could  call  this 
chapter,  'I  Remember  Papa,' "  he  said, 
as  he  showed  me  his  new  treasures. 

Seldom   do   interviewers   and 


Continued 


46 


i 


f 


•    fc 


Central  feature  of  the  music  wall,  of  course, 
is  the  Consolette  at  which  he  goes  over  songs. 


Madonna  on  living-room  mantel  is  an  echo  of  Frank  Parker's 
childhood.  And  so — in  its  ultra-modern  way — is  the  Kimball- 
designed  "music  wall"   pictured  in  three  views  at  the  right. 


Fun  to  install  and  fun  to  use,  hardboard  unit 
also    houses    Frank's   hi-fi    and    film    projector. 


Among  Frank  Parker's  many  souvenirs  are  these  Dutch  shoes,  which  an 
artist  decorated  for  him  during  a  Wednesday-night  TV  performance. 


Frank  Parker  sings  on  Arthur  Godfrey  And  His  Friends,  CBS-TV,  Wed.,  8  P.M., 
as  sponsored  by  The  Toni  Company,  CBS-Columbia,  Pillsbury  Mills,  and  Kellogg 
Company— and  Arthur  Godfrey  Time,  as  heard  on  CBS  Radio,  M-F,  at  10  A.M., 
and  9een  on  CBS-TV,  M-Th,  at  10:30  A.M.,  under  multiple  sponsorship.  (All  EDT) 


Home  is  a  place  apart  from  his  career,  a  cozy  plac| 


photographers  see  Frank  in  his  home. 
Although  he's  a  friendly  fellow,  he 
believes  that  home   and  private   life 
should  be  kept  in  the  background  of  a 
professional  career,  so  it's  much  more 
usual  to  get  to  him  at  rehearsals, 
or  in  the  Godfrey  offices  at  CBS,  or 
across  a  restaurant  table.    It  was  extra 
exciting  to  be  invited  to  the  new 
apartment — and  particularly  to  that 
musical  inner  sanctum,  the  pride  of 
the  Parker  heai*t. 

While  Papa  was  first  to  acquire  a 
record  player  and  pianola,  Frank  can 
also  lay  claim  to  a  "first."  His  is  the  first 
"music  wall"  of  its  kind — a  complete 
do-it-yourself  installation   of  all  the 
things  for  which  a  music-lover 
longs.  For  Frank,  of  course,  the  cen- 
tral piece  is  his  Kimball  Consolette,  a 
lovely  small  piano  finished  in  limed 
oak,  fitting  into  its  own  niche  formed 
by  the  "hardboard"  cabinets  which 
make  up  the  rest  of  the  wall  and  house 
the  rest  of  the  equipment. 

Frank  chose  mixed  instead  of 
matched  colors  in  the  cabinets,  ranging 
from  pale  chartreuse  through  beige 
and  light  terra  cotta,  to  soft  green 
and  robin's- egg  blue,  with  white  wood 
stripping.   Set  off  by  a  pale  rug  and 
with  chartreuse  drapes  at  the  windows, 
the  effect  is  one  of  subdued  and 
restful  color.  The  (Continued  on  page 70) 


48 


where   he   can   entertain   his  friends.         He  used  to  go  overboard  on  clothes,  has  learned  to  travel  light  for  night-club  tours. 
Marriage?  "If  I  could  find  real  companionship  with  someone  who  understands  this  rather  crazy  business  I'm  in!" 


acfaUWemad 


(Continued) 


Among  Frank  Parker's  many  souvenirs  are  these  Dutch  shoes,  which  an 
artist  decorated  tor  him  during  a  Wednesday-night  TV  performance. 


Frank  Parker  sings  on  Arthur  Godfrey  And  His  Friends,  CBS-TV,  Wed.,  8  P.M., 
as  sponsored  by  The  Toni  Company,  CBS-Columbia,  Pillsbury  Mills,  and  Kellogg 
Company — and  Arthur  Godfrey  Time,  as  heard  on  CBS  Radio,  M-F,  at  10  A.M., 
and  seen  on  CBS-TV,  M-Th,  at  10:30  A.M.,  under  multiple  sponsorship.  (All  EDT)' 


Home  is  a  place  apart  from  his  career,  a  cozy  place 


photographers  see  Frank  in  his  home. 
Although  he's  a  friendly  fellow,  he 
believes  that  home   and   private   life 
should  be  kept  in  the  background  of  a 
professional  career,  so  it's  much  more 
usual  to  get  to  him  at  rehearsals, 
or  in  the  Godfrey  offices  at  CBS,  or 
across  a  restaurant  table.    It  was  extra 
exciting  to  be  invited  to  the  new 
apartment — and  particularly  to  that 
musical  inner  sanctum,  the  pride  of 
the  Parker  heart. 

While  Papa  was  first  to  acquire  a 
record  player  and  pianola,  Frank  can 
also  lay  claim  to  a  "first."  His  is  the  first 
"music  wall"  of  its  kind — a  complete 
do-it-yourself  installation   of   all  the 
things  for  which  a  music-lover 
longs.  For  Frank,  of  course,  the  cen- 
tral piece  is  his  Kimball  Consolette,  a 
lovely  small  piano  finished  in  limed 
oak,  fitting  into  its  own  niche  formed 
by  the  "hardboard"  cabinets  which 
make  up  the  rest  of  the  wall  and  house 
the  rest  of  the  equipment. 

Frank  chose  mixed  instead  of 
matched  colors  in  the  cabinets,  ranging 
from  pale  chartreuse  through  beige 
and  light  terra  cotta,  to  soft  green 
and  robin's-egg  blue,  with  white  wood 
stripping.   Set  off  by  a  pale  rug  and 
with  chartreuse  drapes  at  the  windows, 
the  effect  is  one  of  subdued  and 
restful  color.  The  (Continued  on  pageW) 


where  he  can  entertain   his  friends.         He  used  to  go  overboard  on  clothes,  has  learned  to  travel  light  for  night-club  tours. 
Marriage?  "If  I  could  find  real  companionship  with  someone  who  understands  this  rather  crazy  business  I'm  in!" 


48 


■*-*"*SJ*' 


r       > 


■*W 


\    \ 


K 


Karl  Weber-Family  Man 


Arthur  Tate's  own  "search  for 
tomorrow"  is  rooted  deep  in  the  solid 
virtues  of  a  memorable  yesterday 

By  GLADYS  HALL 


Once  upon  a  time  .  .  .  well,  close  to  twenty-five  years 
ago,  anyway  ...  a  dark-eyed  stripling  of  fifteen  and 
a  gnarled  oak  of  a  man  turned  eighty-seven  were  at 
work  on  an  autumn  day,  clearing  a  forty-acre  stand  of 
timber  in  the  Mississippi  Valley.  As  the  boy — winded — sat 
down  for  a  spell,  he  watched  the  old  man  drive  a  stake 
into  the  ground,  notch  a  tree  in  just  the  right  place, 
smell  the  wind,  heft  his  ax  blade  .  .  .  and  as  the  forest 
giant  crashed  to  earth  upon  the  stake — a  mighty  missile 
to  its  target — the  boy  gulped,  realizing  that  what  he 
had  seen  was  true  craftsmanship  at  work. 

"I  was  that  winded  boy,"  says  six-foot-one-inch-tall, 
dark  and  handsome  Karl  Weber — today  best  known  to  TV 
audiences  as  Arthur  Tate  in  Search  For  Tomorrow. 
"The  wily  woodsman  of  eighty-seven  was  my  German 
grandfather,  Christian  Weber.   And  since  I  am  a  bit 
of  a  determinist — meaning  that  I  believe  we  are  all  pretty 
much  what  our  experiences  (Continued  on  page  71) 

Karl  Weber  is  Arthur  Tate  in  Search  For  Tomorrow,  as  seen  on  CBS-TV, 
M-F,  at  12:30  P.M.  EDT,  sponsored  by  the  Procter  &  Gamble  Company 
for  Joy,  Spic  and  Span,  and  Gleem.  Karl  is  also  heard  as  Dr.  Dan 
Palmer  in  The  Doctor's' Wife,  over  NBC  Radio,  M-F,  at  4:15  P.M.  EDT. 


Karl  is  home-builder,  as  well  as  actor;  Margie,  the 
"homemaker,"  sewed  all  the  draperies.  Lovely  Lynne  has 
just  progressed  from  baby-sitting  to  a   model's  career. 


i. 


Margie  was  Karl's  college  sweetheart.  They  were  married 
on  the  campus,  now  live  in  New  Jersey — where  their  family 
includes  daughter  Lynne,  16;  sons  Chris  and  Mark,  12  and 
6;  the  family  collie,  "Misty";  and  "Foggy,"  the  pussycat. 


Mr.  Average  American 


Gordon  MacRae' s  wife  insists  that 
he's  "perfectly  typical" — but  she  can't 
help  accenting  the  "perfect" 

By  BUD  GOODE 

Less  than  five  years  ago,  many  of  Gordon  MacRae's 
.  listening  audience  knew  him  only  as  a  beautiful 
baritone  voice  on  NBC  Radio's  The  Railroad 
Hour.    Today's  TV  audience  actually  sees  the  man 
with  the  voice  on  the  NBC-TV  Gordon  MacRae 
Show — which    inspires    the    following    reaction    in 
letters   from   many   of   his   old   listeners:    "With 
your   big,   booming   baritone    voice,    we   had    always 
thought  you  were  6'4",  about  45  years  old,  and  well 
over  200  lbs.    Now  that  we  see  you  on  TV,  we 
find  that  you're  less  like  a  basso  profundo  and 
more  like  the  boy  next  door." 

Except  for  his  big  voice — and  the  rather  substantial 
income  he  earns  with  it  each  year — Gordon  MacRae 
is  a  perfect  picture  of  Mr.  Average  American. 
His  pretty  wife,  Sheila,  who  writes  the  Gordon 
MacRae   TV   show,   describes   him   as   follows: 
"According  to   insurance   charts,   Gordon   goes   right 

See  Next  Page  ^ 


Wife  Sheila  admits  that  Gordon's  voice  is  exceptional — 
and  so  is  his  fame.  But  they're  both  trying  to  keep  their 
children's  lives  as  "average"  as  his  own  early  days.  Left 
to  right,  below,  with  Mom  and  Dad:  Heather,  9;  Robert 
Bruce,  2;  William  Gordon  ("Gar"),  7;  Meredith  Lynn,    II. 


1 


I 


* 


«* 


V 


•»  mm 


<& 


V         \ 


/    Lfl 


f 


J 

""       *  i 

*# 

Hi 

__  ^  ■  i  ■  ■ . ■  > 

53 


Mr.  Average  American 


(Continued) 


The  MacRae  children  know  show  business  is  Gordon's  "work" 
— just  like  Sheila's  writing  the  show  and  the  directing  of  Irv 
Lambrecht  (above).  But  birthdays  are  something  special! 
So  Heather  and  Gar  (at  left,  below)  came  right  onto  the  set, 
with  all  the  rest  of  the  family,  to  help  Dad  cut  his  cake. 


i!'  " 
ers 

y 


down  the  middle— average  suit,  shirt  and  shoe  size. 
He   comes   from   a   typically   American   town — Syracuse, 
New  York.  And,  like  most  Americans,  he  has  about 
four  different  blood  strains,  running  through  his  Veins. 
In  Gordon's  case,  it's  Scotch,  Irish,  Italian  and 
German.   He  even  has  brown  eyes  and  brown  hair." 

Sheila  continues,  "Gordon  has  average  looks  (of  course, 
I   think   he's   handsome).     But   the   fact   is,   when 
we're  on  the  road,  people  always  say,  'Gee,  you  don't 
look  like  Gordon  MacRae,'  or  'Gordon  MacRae?   We 
wouldn't  have  been  sure  if  we  hadn't  recognized  Sheila!' ' 

Gordon   was   born   in   Orange,   New   Jersey, 
March  12,  1921.    He  spent  part  of  his  childhood  in 
Buffalo,  New  York,  and  later  in  Syracuse.    "Most 
average    families    have    two   children,"    says    Sheila. 
"Gordon  has  a  sister  who  lives  in  West  bury,  Long 
Island — and  she  still  treats  him  just  the  way  all  sisters 
treat  their  brothers  everywhere.    There  is   absolutely 
no  glamour  attached  to  his  career.   When  we  visit 
her,  he  has  to  get  up  in  the  morning  and  get  his  own 
coffee.    And  they  argue  like  brother  and  sister. 
If  she  doesn't  like  a  song,  she  says,  'I  think  you 
sang  it  terribly,'  and  he  replies,  'I  did  not.'  Then  she  says, 
'You  did,  too,'   then  they'll   laugh  about  old   times. 
And  she  will  say  kiddingly,  'Gordie,  you're  getting 
too  fat'   (which  is  not  true  and  Gordon  knows  it).    Of 
course,  when  she  likes  the  songs  he  sings,  she  tells 
him  she  thinks  he's  marvelous  and  gives  him  a  big  kiss. 
In  short,   to  his   sister,   Gordon  is  just  brother 
Gordie,   and   nothing   special." 

Gordon's   childhood   was   typically   American.    As 
Sheila  says,   "I  truly  think  that  he  is  the  only  current 
popular  singer  who  has  enjoyed  a  really  average 
American    childhood.     He    came    from    a    completely 
average  home.    His  father  was  a  manufacturer  and 
his  mother  a  housewife  who  liked  to  play  the  piano. 
His  father  made  a  good  living,  and  the  power  company 
never  threatened  to  cut  off  the  lights.  There  simply 
were  no  problems  in  his  childhood. 

"You  frequently  read  in  personality  stories  the 
sad  lines,  'When  I  was  a  child  something  happened 
that"  changed  my  life.'    Nothing   happened  to   Gordon." 

Gordon's  father,  like  most  men,  had  a  hobby.    His 
was   singing.     Therefore,    it   isn't   strange    that,    at    an 
early  age,  Gordon  enjoyed  singing,  too.    When  he 
was  twelve  years  old,  he  sang  on  Syracuse  radio  station 
WFBL's    kiddie    show,    emceed    by    teenager    Bill 
Lundigan.    Gordon   was  known  as   "Wee   Willie 
MacRae."    When  Gordon  was  in  high  school,  he  was 
already   singing   with   dance   bands   in   and    around 
Syracuse.    His  father  didn't  necessarily  want  him 
to  make  entertainment  a  career,  and,  to  take  his  mind 
off  singing,  sent  him  away  to  Amherst  Prep  School — 
where  Gordon  starred  in  the  school  glee  club.  On  a  visit, 
Gordon's  father  realized  the  early  environment  had 
been  too  much.  He  told  his  son,  "If  you  want  to  sing,  sing. 
I  see  you'll  never  be  a  manufacturer  of  farm  tools." 

"His  father  realized,"  says  Sheila,  "that  Gordon 
was  cut  out  for  show  business.    'If  entertaining  is  what 
you  want,'  his  father  said,   'your  mother  and  I 
encourage   you   to   go   after   it   .   .    .'    So  again 
there   was  no  problem. 

"Gordon's  mother  wanted    (Continued  on  page  93) 


The  Gordon  MacRae  Show  is  seen  on  NBC-TV,  Mon.,  7:30  P.M.  EDT,  sponsored  by  Lever  Brothers  for  Lifebuoy,  Pepsodent  and  Lux  Liquid. 


54 


Gordon  hopes  to  be  as  understanding  with  Robert  Bruce  and 
Gar  as  his  own  dad  was  with  him — epecially  about  a  career. 


Sheila  thinks  one  of  the  best  things  about  "average  man" 
MacRae  is — he  always  finds  time  to  play  with  his  children. 


Today,  happy  all  together — thanks  to  Gordon's  courage  and  Sheila's  imagination,  one  day  'way  back  when  .  .  . 


A 


£ 


Workshop 


Workshop  visits  another  kind   of  "workshop,"   the   Helen 
Hayes  Concert  Drama  Group.  L.  to  r.:  Brook  Byron,  Robert' 
McQueeney,  Helen,  Group  director  Jack  Manning,  Dick  Via. 


The  play's  the  thing,  said  William 
Shakespeare,  author.  The  pro- 
duction's the  thing,  amended  How- 
ard Barnes,  CBS  Radio's  vice  president. 
Bill  Froug  on  the  West  Coast,  Paul 
Roberts  on  the  East  Coast,  nodded  in 
agreement,  then  pitched  in  to  help 
Barnes  dust  off  the  famed  experimental 
Columbia  Workshop  and  revamp  it  as 
today's  CBS  Radio  Workshop. 

Said  Barnes,  "We'll  never  get  a 
sponsor,  anyway,  so  we  might  as  well 
try  anything.  We  hope  to  be  the  fourth 
dimension  in  radio  programming,  up  on 
Cloud  Nine  in  an  intellectual  and  en- 
tertaining way."  Said  co-producers 
Paul  Roberts  and  Bill  Froug:  "We're 
interested  in  whatever  is  interesting. 
This  is  an  experiment  in  form,  content 
and  ideas."  Said  the  critics — those  at 
the  typewriters  and  those  in  the  arm- 
chairs:  "Bravo." 

Workshop  is  an  adventure  into  sound, 
an  attempt  to  see  by  ear,  to  use  sound 
waves  to  get  the  mind's  eye  wide  open. 
Thus,  on  the  opening  program,  four 
men    labored   five   hours    to    create    a 


Continued 


East  Coast  programs,  which  have  included  Eric 
Sevareid  in  "The  Exurbanites,"  are  produced  by 
Paul  Roberts,  who  has  plans  aplenty  for  the  future. 


West  Coast  programs  are  produced  by  Bill  Froug.  He  cast 
Lurene  Tuttle  in  "Brave  New  World,"  was  told:  "It's  like 
being  back  in  heaven  to  receive  a  call  from  Workshop." 


56 


# 


r         » 

— —   - 


Lbb  plays  it  by  ear— without  formula  or  format- 
in  an  exciting  experiment  in  the  drama  of  sound 


57 


WHO'S   WHO   ON 


Worksh 


(Continued) 


sound  that  was  heard  for  less  than  thirty  seconds,  the 
sound  depicting  the  manufacturing  of  babies  in  the  mech- 
anized, demoralized  "Brave  New  World"  of  Aldous 
Huxley.  Thus,  a  tape-recorder  eavesdropped  on  Man- 
hattan, picking  up  the  squeaking  of  clothesline  pulleys  .  .  . 
the  street  songs  of  children  .  .  .  the  roar  of  traffic  .  .  .  and 
a  plumber  pausing  at  a  kitchen  sink  to  say,  "You  know, 
when  I  hear  good  music,  I  forget  everything.  Without 
music  there  is  no  world" — to  paint  a  picture  of  a  metropolis 
simply  through  "The  Voice  of  a  City."  Thus,  another  tape 
recorder  accompanied  William  Zeckendorf,  real  estate  ty- 
coon, as  he  negotiated  million-dollar  deals,  rode  to  work 
in  a  telephone-equipped  limousine  or  relaxed  at  home — 
to  etch,  in  ways  no  other  medium  could,  an  intimate 
"Living  Portrait."  Thus,  Dr.  Frank  Baxter  interviewed 
William  Shakespeare,  and  thus  listeners  met  an  atmos- 
pheric disturbance  named  Maria,  in  a  dramatization  of 
George  Stewart's  "Storm." 

Who  are  the  people  who  are  continuing  this  tradition  of 
experimentation  and  innovation  that  CBS  began  back  in 
the  mid-thirties?  In  a  contest  between  fact  and  fiction 
entitled  "Cops  and  Robbers,"  a  crime  was  enacted  by  such 
seasoned  actors  as  Larry  Haines,  Elspeth  Eric,  John  Syl- 
vester and  Kenneth  Lynch — and  solved  by  four  actual  New 
York  detectives.  The  Helen  Hayes  Concert  Drama  Group 
showed  actors  improving  their  craft  in  a  Shakespeare 
study-by-rehearsal  group  which  Jack  Manning  directs. 
Vincent  Price  was  heard  in  "Speaking  of  Cinderella — or  If 
The  Shoe  Fits."  Eric  Sevareid  narrated  "The  Exurbanites," 
and  Clifton  Fadiman  was  heard  oh  the  sound-profile  of 
New  York.  Lurene  Tuttle,  who  recalls  a  Columbia  Work- 
shop program  in  which  she  was  called  on  for  six  different 
German  accents,  appeared  in  the  current  Workshop's  pro- 
duction of  "Brave  New  World,"  which  also  featured  the 
laconic  narration  of  its  author,  Aldous  Huxley. 

Hans  Conreid,  who  was  heard  as  Christopher  Marlowe  in 
"Dr.  Frank  Baxter  Interviews  William  Shakespeare,"  said, 
"It's  a  privilege  to  be  called  for  a  part  in  a  Workshop 
production — and  all  of  us  jump  at  the  opportunity."  Bill 
Conrad,  who  narrated  "Storm"  and  "Jimmy  Blue-Eyes," 
and  was  Richard  Burbage  in  the  Shakespeare  interview, 
laid  his  Gunsmoke  pistols  down  to  say:  "The  subtitle  of 
Workshop  sums  it  up  .  .  .  truly  the  'theater  of  the  mind.' " 

These  are  the  people  delighted  for  a  chance  to  step  off 
the  beaten  path.  The  traffic  changes  for  each  program  and 
its  permanent  pace-setters  are  Paul  Roberts  in  New  York 
and  William  Froug  in  Los  Angeles.  They  alternate  as 
producers,  as  the  Workshop  alternates  each  week  between 
the  East  and  the  West  Coasts.  These  are  the  men  in 
charge  of  furnishing  and  peopling  Barnes'  "Cloud  Nine." 

Director  of  Indictment  and  associate  producer  of  The 
Woolworth  Hour,  Paul  Roberts  is  a  quiet-spoken,  hard- 
working, intense  Chicagoan  who  began  his  career  as  a 
stage  manager.  He  switched  from  footlights  to  micro- 
phones in  1944,  when  he  became  an  NBC  producer- 
director.  Five  years  later  he  joined  Benton  &  Bowles  to 
supervise  the  production  of  such  shows  as  The  Railroad 
Hour,  Perry  Mason,  Wendy  Warren  And  The  News  and 
Rosemary.  He  is  married,  has  two  daughters  aged  five  and 
two,  and  lives  on  Riverside  Drive  in  New  York  City — when 
he  isn't  roaming  imagination's  outer-spaces. 

Bill  Froug  names  Little  Rock,  Arkansas,  as  his  home,  the 
University  of  Missouri's  School  of  Journalism  as  his  alma 


j&6* 


Roundtable  of  talents  presented  "Frank  Baxter  Interviews  William  Shakespeare":  Ben  Wright  (back 
to  camera),  Hans  Conreid,  Bill  Froug,  Dr.  Baxter,  Ramsey  Hill,  Jay  Novello,  Bill  Conrad.  Below,  Bill 
Froug  and  Aldous  Huxlev  teamed  on  two  Huxley  works:  "Brave  New  World"  and  "Jacob's  Hand." 


mater.  He  graduated  into  the  Navy  and  began  a  writing 
career  when,  as  commanding  officer  of  a  sub  chaser,  he 
completed  a  novelette  in  his  off-duty  hours.  Joining  CBS 
in  1948,  he  wrote  the  Jeff  Regan  series  and,  during  the 
years  he  has  been  writing  for  radio,  he  has  sold  some  two 
hundred  scripts  to  such  programs  as  Escape,  The  Whistler, 
Memo  From  Molly,  and  The  Steve  Allen  Show.  He's  mar- 
ried to  Betty  Oppenheim  of  Oklahoma  City,  and  they  have 
three  children.  The  former  sub-chaser  is  still  moving — and 
thinking — fast. 

An  adaptation  of  A.  A.  Milne's  "Winnie-the-Pooh"  will 
be  Froug's  June  22nd  program.  He's  planning  to  delve  into 
James  Thurber  and  to  do  profiles-in-sound  of  London  and 
Paris.  Also  in  the  works  is  "When  He  Shall  Appear,"  by 
Harold  Kampf,  a  story  of  what  might  happen  when  a 
Christ-like  man  appears  in  the  modern  world — and  is  put 
on  trial  for  his  life. 

From  New  York  and  Paul  Roberts,  the  ideas  flow  equally 
fast.  Having  presented  a  "parlor  piece  for  music,"  David 
Broekman's  "Toledo  War,"  Roberts  plans  more  of  the  same. 
Dylan  Thomas  and  the  Stock  Market  will  each  provide  the 
theme  for  a  coming  program,  and  election  time  will  defi- 
nitely be  a  taking-off  point  for  a  program  on  politicos. 

The  CBS  Radio  Workshop  is  an  offbeat  venture.  It  is 
an  experiment  "full  of  sound  and  fury" — and  significance. 


CBS  Radio  Workshop  is  heard  on  CBS  Radio,  Friday  at  8:30  P.M.  EDT. 


Portrait  of  a   happy  husband  and  father:   Mel   with    his    film-starlet    daughter,    Barbara    Ruick    (left), 
and  Mrs.  Ruick — better  known  to  radio  audiences    as  Claire  Niesen,  the  lovely  star  of  Backstage  Wife. 


Can  Any  Man  Ask  ? 


Devoted  to  his  wife  and  children, 

Melville  Ruick  of  City  Hospital 

has  become  a  "doctor  of  human  values" 

By  GREGORY  MERWIN 

Melville  Ruick,  who  stars  as  Dr.  Barton  Crane 
on  CBS  Radio's  City  Hospital,  is  a  strong 
man.  He  has  deep  convictions — but  equally 
deep  is  his  affection  for  those  near  him.  He  is  charm- 
ing and  civil,  and,  when  he  philosophizes,  he  doesn't 
shove — he  shares  his  ideas:  "Men  become  obsessed 
with  success — with  the  idea  of  being  someone. 
That  means  money,  of  course,  for  we  measure 
success  in  dollars.    Well,  that  is  not  my  yardstick. 
I  would  measure  my  success  in  my  children.  They 
are  more  precious  to  me  than  diamonds." 

Mel,   who   has   two    children — Major    Robert   H. 
Ruick,  a  senior  pilot  and  administrative  officer 
in  the  U.  S.  Air  Force,  and  Barbara  Ruick,  the 
actress  and  singer,  currently  featured  in  the  film 
"Carousel" — continues:    "We  work  to  live,  and 
living  is  our  relationship  to  others.  Not  a  man  sit- 
ting in  a  shiny  new  car,  but  a  man  talking  to  his 
son  or  a  man  with  his  arm  around  his  wife.  Love, 
warmth,  affection — you  can't  buy  these  with  dollars." 

Mel  is  far  from  being  a  lonely  or  dependent 
man.     He  is  married  to    (Continued  on 'page  79) 

Melville  Ruick  stars  as  Dr.  Barton  Crane  in  City  Hospital, 
CBS  Radio,  Sat.,  1 :05  P.M.  EDT.  Claire  Niesen  stars  as  Mary 
Noble  in  Backstage  Wife,  CBS  Radio,  M-F,  12:15  P.M.  EDT. 


Most  famous  today  as  City  Hospital's  Dr.  Crane,   Mel  has 
loved  and  followed  three  professions — acting,  music,  flying. 


It  was  a  proud  moment  indeed  when  he  escorted  his  talented 
daughter  to  the  premiere  of  "Carousel,"  the  movie  in  which 
Barbara  earned  such  fine  reviews  as  both  actress  and  singer. 


Son  Robert — above,  with  his  wife  Alice — makes  aviation  his 
career.  Once  a  flyer  himself  (below,  left),  Mel  was  doubly 
proud  when  Bob  won  his  wings  at  Luke  Field,  Arizona  (right) 


• 


M  t 


w 


M: 


S,    1 


! 


4V. 


I 


The  Brighter  Day  children  of  Rev.  Dennis  prove  their  love  for  Blair  Davies  himself 
on  Father's  Day!  Reading  clockwise:  Jayne  Heller  as  Althea,  Lois  Nettleton  as  Patsy, 
Hal  Holbrook  as  Grayling,  Mary  Linn  Beller  as  Babby,  and  Grace  Matthews  as  Liz. 


\ 


62 


Blair  fell  in  love  with  India  during  the  war  (when  he 
helped  build  the  first  Armed  Forces  radio  station  in  the 
East),  still  prizes  shining  mementoes  of  that  fabled  land. 


As  Rev.  Dennis  or  Blair  Davies, 

this  actor-philosopher  knows 

how  much  a  helping  hand  can  mean 

By  MARIE  HALLER 


There's  rare  quality  in  the  character  of  the 
Rev.  Richard  Dennis,  that  wise  and  understanding 
man  of  God  in  The  Brighter  Day.   There's  rare 
quality,  too,  in  Blair  Davies,  the  thoughtful  and 
experienced  actor  who  portrays  Rev.  Dennis  on  both 
CBS-TV  and  Radio.   Unlike  the  beloved  pastor  of 
New  Hope,  Blair  came  by  his  study  of  philosophy  and 
the  human  soul  after  reaching  full  maturity  in 
his  own  profession.    But,  like  Rev.  Dennis,  he  had 
learned  by  heart,  from  childhood  on,  the  virtues 
of    helping — and    being    helped — by    one's    fellowman. 

There  are  friends-in-need  whom  Blair  Davies 
will  never  forget,  even  those  (Continued  on  page   94) 

Blair  Davies  is  the  Reverend  Richard  Dennis  in  The  Brighter  Day, 
Monday  through  Friday— as  seen  on  CBS-TV,  4  P.M.  EDT,  spon- 
sored by  Procter  &  Gamble  for  Cheer,  Gleem  and  Crisco — heard 
over   CBS   Radio,   2:15   P.M.   EDT,   under  multiple   sponsorship. 


His  home  in  Manhattan  is  a  "bachelor"  Busy  all  day  on  TV  and  radio,  Blair  has  a  When  not  studying  scripts  tor 
apartment  he's  brightening  with  his  own  quiet  dinner  with  his  friends  at  night — or  the  morrow,  he  reads  up  on  his 
handiwork,    such    as   this   tiled    fireplace.        shops  for  makings  of  a  home-cooked  meal.       favorite    subject — philosophy. 


INCORPORATED 

You  bet  your  life  people  are  funny 
and  it's  a  perpetual  "house  party" 
for  producer-creator  John  Guedel ! 


Groucho 
dreams  u 
Art  Linkl 
pect  Joh 


makes  Marxian  quips  about  the  way  Guedef 
p  such  money-makers  as  You  Bet  Your  Life. 
etter  and  secretary  Lea  Ray  (below)  sus- 
n's  more  fantastic  than  People  Are  Funny. 


Art  Linkletter  hosts  House  Party,  M-F,  CBS-TV,  2:30  P.M.,  sponsored  by 
Pillsbury  Mills,  Lever  Brothers,  Kellogg  Co.,  Dole  Pineapple— on  CBS  Radio, 
at  3  P.M.,  for  Lever,  Dole,  Sunsweet  Prunes,  Kasco  Dog  Ration.  Also  People 
Are  Funny,  NBC-TV,  Sat.,  9  P.M.,  for  Prom  Home  Permanent  and  Paper-Mate 
Pens— NBC  Radio,  Thurs.,  8  P.M.  The  Groucho  Marx  show,  You  Bet  Your  Life, 
is  seen  on  NBC-TV,  Thurs.,  8  P.M.,  and  heard  on  NBC  Radio,  Wed.,  9  P.M., 
as  sponsored  by  the  De  Soto-Plymouth  Dealers  of  America.   (All  times  EDT) 


_l 


Full  of  ideas,  even  as  a  child,  John  had  an  imaginary  playmate  named  "Pern."  Today,  his 
St.  Bernard  pup  bears  that  name — and  accompanies  Suedel  and  his  children  Heidi  and  John, 
Jr.,    on    equally    imaginative    trips    by    motor-bike    "looking   for   bandits"    in    Beverly    Hills. 


By  ELSA  MOLINA 


Ideas  are  money!     So  says  forty-three-year- 
young  John  Guedel,  partner  and  producer 
with  both  Art  Linkletter  and  Groucho  Marx. 
The  basic  ideas  for  their  People  Are  Funny, 
House  Party  and  You  Bet  Your  Life  programs, 
on  radio  and  TV,  originally  sprang  from  John 
Guedel's  IBM-like  brain.   Each  week,  these 
three  men  turn  out  fourteen   half-hours   of 
top-ten  entertainment.    John  Guedel's 
share    of    the    purse:     $250,000    a    year. 

Ideas  are  John  Guedel's  stock  in  trade.   He 
turns  out  new  twists  on  old  ideas,  assembly- 
line  style,  much  as  Groucho's  sponsor  rolls  new 
De  Sotos  out  of  the  plant.  Groucho  quips, 
"The  way  John  gives  birth  to  ideas,  he  ought 
to  have  a  doctor  in  attendance  at  all  times." 
Art  Linkletter  continues,  "John's  fantastic — his 
ideas  have  ideas!"    Says  Red  Skelton,  whose 
show  Guedel  once  produced,  "John  is  a 
walking  idea -fountain.   I  said  to  him  once, 
'Hey,  good  morning,'  and  he  replied,  'Say,  that 
gives  me  a  great  idea  for   a   show.' " 

But  John  is  the  first  to  admit  that  he  doesn't 
have  a  patent  on  (Continued  on  page  74) 


Skelton  swears  that  John  once  got 
a  "great  idea  for  a  show"  just  from 
Red's  most  casual  greeting  one  day. 


65 


IDEAS 

INCORPORATED 

You  bet  your  life  people  are  funny 
and  it's  a  perpetual  "house  party" 
for  producer-creator  John  Guedel ! 


Groucho  makes  Marxian  quips  about  the  way  Suedel 
dreams  up  such  money-makers  as  You  Bet  Your  Life. 


Art   Linkletter  and 

secretary   Lea 

Ray   (below)   sus- 

pect  John's  more  fantastic  than  People  Are  Funny. 

0 

It®'  ■■■r^^l   """ 

f              ^^ 

*"            fc£" 

■A  ^1       1'    ■ 

H  v~~— ^ 

■H 


Art  Linkletter  hosts  House  Party,  M-F,  CBS-TV,  2:30  P.M.,  sponsored  by 
Pillsbury  Mills,  Lever  Brothers,  Kellogg  Co.,  Dole  Pineapple— on  CBS  Radio, 
at  3  P.M.,  for  Lever,  Dole,  Sunsweet  Prunes,  Kasco  Dog  Ration.  Also  People 
Are  Funny,  NBC-TV,  Sat.,  9  P.M.,  for  Prom  Home  Permanent  and  Paper-Mate 
Pens— NBC  Radio,  Thurs.,  8  P.M.  The  Groucho  Marx  show,  You  Bet  Your  Life, 
is  seen  on  NBC-TV,  Thurs.,  8  P.M.,  and  heard  on  NBC  Radio,  Wed.,  9  P.M- 
as  sponsored  by  the  De  Soto-Plymouth  Dealers  of  America.   (All  times  EDT) 


'itmrm 


Full  of  ideas,  even  as  a  child,  John  had  an  imaginary  playmate  named  "Pern."  Today,  his 
St.  Bernard  pup  bears  that  name— and  accompanies  Guedel  and  his  children  Heidi  and  John, 
Jr.,    on    equally    imaginative    trips    by    motor-bike    "looking   for  bandits"   in   Beverly   Hills. 


By  ELSA  MOLINA 


Ideas  are  money!    So  says  forty-three-year- 
young  John  Guedel,  partner  and  producer 
with  both  Art  Linkletter  and  Groucho  Marx. 
The  basic  ideas  for  their  People  Are  Funny, 
House  Party  and  You  Bet  Your  Life  programs, 
on  radio  and  TV,  originally  sprang  from  John 
Guedel's  IBM-like  brain.  Each  week,  these 
three  men  turn  out  fourteen  half-hours  of 
top-ten  entertainment.    John  Guedel's 
share    of    the    purse:     $250,000    a    year. 

Ideas  are  John  Guedel's  stock  in  trade.   He 
turns  out  new  twists  on  old  ideas,  assembly- 
line  style,  much  as  Groucho's  sponsor  rolls  new 
De  Sotos  out  of  the  plant.  Groucho  quips, 
"The  way  John  gives  birth  to  ideas,  he  ought 
to  have  a  doctor  in  attendance  at  all  times." 
Art  Linkletter  continues,  "John's  fantastic— his 
ideas  have  ideas!"    Says  Red  Skelton,  whose 
show  Guedel  once  produced,  "John  is  a 
walking  idea -fountain.   I  said  to  him  once, 
'Hey,  good  morning,'  and  he  replied.^  'Say,  that 
gives  me  a  great  idea  for  a  show.' " 

But  John  is  the  first  to  admit  that  he  doesn't 
have  a  patent  on  (Continued  on  page  74) 


1% 


W 


^L^ 


Skelton  swears  that  John  once  got 
a  "great  idea  for  a  show"  just  from 
Red's  most  casual  greeting  one  day. 


65 


TV  host  Will  Rogers,  Jr.,  never  expected  to  follow  his  father  into 
"show  business."  The  late,  beloved  cowboy  humorist  (right)  had 
no  such  plans  for  his  boy,  either.  But  the  similarity  between  them 
was  too  great — and  their   mutual   love  of  humanity  too  strong. 


It  was  a  normal,  carefree  childhood  Will,  Jr.,  spent  with  his  par 
ents  and  baby  sister  Mary — though  they  lived  in  more  states  than 
most    non-theatrical    families.     Will,    Jr.,    went   to    school    in    Ar- 
kansas, Oklahoma,  California,   New  York,   Indiana,  and  Arizona! 


Will  Rogers,  Jr.,  carries  on  a 

great  old-fashioned  tradition 

in  the  ultra-modern  medium  of  TV 


By 
PETER  CHARADE 


Good  morning — and  welcome  to  the  show 
of  the  same  name:  It  was  seven  A.M., 
but  the  host  of  CBS-TV's  early  morning  show 
grinned  into  the  cameras  with  such  infectious 
good  cheer  that  you  actually  had  hope.  It 
might  be  a  good  morning,  at  that! 

"We've  been  getting  some  very  nice  mail 
from  many  of  you,"  he  continued,  "and  I  want 
to  thank  you  all.  I  particularly  want  to  thank 
Tony  Lorinzio  of  42  Draper  Street,  Dorchester, 
Massachusetts,  aged  eight-and-a-half,  who  has 
written  to  say,  'Dear  Will  Rogers,  Jr.:  Are 
you  any  relation  to  Roy  Rogers?  If  you  are, 
I'll  give  you  my  address.'  " 

Will  paused  to  consider  the  question.  "Well, 
I'm  not  any  relation  to  Roy  Rogers,"  he 
drawled,  "but  young  Tony  seems  to  have 
given  me  his  address,  anyway.  I'm  not  related 
to  Buck  Rogers,  either,  Tony,  but  I  hope  you 
won't  mind." 

And  then,  without  further  ado,  he  turned  the 
microphone  over  to  Ned  Calmer  for  the  news. 


Above,  the  Charles  Ugaldea  family  of  Nevada 
had  never  even  seen  TV  until  they  visited  Good 
Morning/  But  Will  knows  and  loves  their  West, 
is  proud  of  his  part-Indian  ancestry.  His  own 
adopted  children  (on  ranch,  at  right)  include 
Clem,  a  full-blooded  Navajo,  and  Randy,  son  of 
a  Government  teacher  on  the  same  reservation. 


Tony  Lorinzio — and  a  whole  generation  not 
yet  in  its  teens — probably  still  doesn't  know 
that  Will  Rogers,  Jr.,  is  the  son  of  one  of  the 
most  famous,  most  beloved  men  of  his  time. 
The    original    Will    Rogers    was    a    cowboy 

)from  Oklahoma  who  broke  into  show  business 
doing  rope  tricks.  But  his  running  commen- 
tary, as  he  played  with  his  lasso,  soon  estab- 
lished him  as  a  humorist.  He  became  a 
headliner  in  "The  Ziegfeld  Follies,"  a  star  in 
motion  pictures,  and  the  author  of  a  daily 
syndicated  column  which  millions  read  avidly. 

I  As  shrewd  as  Mark  Twain,  and  as  natively 
American,  he  could  tell  the  world"  the  truth 
about  itself  and  get  away  with  it,  for  his  grin 
removed  the  sting.  Without  malice,  without 
guile,  he  was  the  happy  victim  of  a  love  affair 
with  all  humanity. 
In  1935,  he  met  his  death  in  a  tragic  air 
crash  at  Point  Barrow,  Alaska.  It  was  seven- 
teen years  later  that  Warner  Bros,  made  its 
film  biography,  "The  Will  Rogers  Story,"  with 


See  Next  Page 


(Continued) 


Albums  hold  rich  memories  for  Will  Rogers,  Jr.  (above,  left),  of  ranch 
life  with  his  famous  dad.  Sister  Mary's  on  the  couch  with  their 'parents, 
brother  Jim  ("the  real  cowboy  of  the  family")  on  the  floor  with  the  pet 
calf.  Closeup  below:  Jim,  Will,  Jr.,  Mary,  and  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Will  Rogers. 


Will,  Jr.,  portraying  his  father.  The  cast- 
ing was  inevitable,  for — as  the  camera 
revealed — the  resemblance  between  the 
two  is  uncanny:  They  look  alike,  with  the 
same  husky  build  and  weatherbeaten 
complexion.  They  move  with  the  same 
casual,  outdoor  ease.  They  grin  with  the 
same  touching  innocence,  as  though  their 
hearts  were  wide  open  for  the  whole 
world  to  see.  And,  while  the  drawl  is  not 
so  marked  in  the  son,  they  even  talk  alike 
— in  the  same  humility,  the  same  earnest 
simplicity. 

But  there  is  a  difference  between  the 
men,  and  it's  a  tremendous  one — as  wide 
as  the  gap  between  two  generations.  For 
the  father  was  born  in  a  simple  world  of 
sound  values  and  basic  beliefs.  It  was  his 
unique  achievement  that  he  never  lost 
those  beliefs,  nor  his  native  simplicity — 
in  spite  of  fame  and  fortune,  in  spite  of  a 
world  that  was  fast  losing  its  innocence. 
The  son,  however,  grew  up  in  the  De- 
pression, born  of  a  generation  that  had  no 
beliefs.  It  is  his  unique  achievement  that 
he  has  outgrown  cynicism  and  found  the 
simplicity — the  sound  values  and  basic 
beliefs — that  "got  lost  somewhere  between 
the  two  wars.  .  .  ." 

"You  don't  have  to  give  your  age," 
Mary  Rogers  reminds  her  famous  brother, 
every  time  she  sees  a  story  about  him  in 
print.  Will,  however — who  comes  right  out 
with  everything — readily  admits  to  being 
born  on  October  20,  1911.  He  and  Mary 
also  have  a  brother,  Jim,  who  now  lives 
with  his  wife  and  three  children  on  a 
cattle  ranch  near  Bakersfield,  California. 

"He's  the  real  cowboy  of  the  family," 
Will  says,  with  genuine  admiration.  "He 
used  to  be  a  roper  in  amateur  rodeos." 
(Will  himself  is  a  better  "trick  roper," 
but  can't  "straight-rope"  as  well.) 

Pretty  Mary  is  at  present  in  Mexico, 
but  she  used  to  be  on  the  stage.  "At 
least,"  she  insists,  "you  might  say  I'm  the 
youngest." 

Will  was  born  in  New  York  City,  for 
Rogers,  Sr.,  was  playing  two-a-day  vaude- 
ville on  Broadway  at  the  time.  Like  so 
many  children  with  a  parent  in  show 
business,  he  was  raised  and  educated  all 
over  the  country.  Will  attended  grammar 
schools  at  Rogers,  Arkansas,  and  Chelsea, 
Oklahoma.  In  1919,  the  Rogers  family 
moved  to  Los  Angeles,  where  Will  en- 
rolled at  the  Urban  Military  School.  Next 
year,  the  family  moved  to  Beverly  Hills, 
and  Will  transferred  to  a  school  there. 
He     finally     (Continued     on    page    90) 

Good  Morning  With  Will  Rogers,  Jr.  is  seen  over 
CBS-TV,  Monday  through  Friday,  from  7  to  8  A.M. 
EDT.  (Also  re-broadcast  from  7  to  8  A.M.  C.D.T.)   . 


■ 


at  your    BEN    FRANKLIN    store 


FLUORIDE  TOOTHPASTE 


Contains  the  ONLY  FLUORIDE 
proved  in  10  years  of  clinical  tests 


HARDENS  TOOTH  ENAMEL 
MAKES  TEETH  STRONGER 

starts  working  instantly 

TO  DEFEAT  DECAY 


Scientists  proved  this  Fluoride 

And  Brisk 's  Fluoride  is  the  only  Fluoride  proved  in 
10  year  clinical  tests. ..the  same  fluoride  now  being 
used  successfully  in  water  supplies. ..the  same  den- 
tists use  successfully  to  reduce  decay.  That's  why 
this  same  fluoride,  so  widely  approved  by  medical, 
dental  and  .governmental  authority,  is  now  in  Brisk. 


Benefits  both  adults  and  children 

Brisk 's  Fluoride/85,  Colgate's  exclusive  new  for- 
mula, helps  protect  all  permanent  teeth  whether  in 
adults  or  children  over  six.  Brisks  Fluoride  is  in- 
stantly released  .  .  .  works  on  contact  as  you  brush 
your  teeth  . . .  strengthens  tooth  enamel  as  no  other 
decay-preventive  ever  could. 


Works  even  while  you  eat,  drink  or  sleep 

because  Brisk's  Fluoride/83  not  only  gives  you 
wonder-working  Fluoride  to  strengthen  tooth  enam- 
el, but  provides  a  second,  tested  decay-fighter  that 
starts  working  instantly  .  .  .  keeps  working  all  day 
against  the  formation  of  decay-acid.  Unless  you  get 
Brisk,  you  cannot  get  the?'  benefits  of  Fluoride/85. 


Economy  size    69fi 


Giant  size 


53^ 


Large  size 


31? 


I 


*A  trade-mark  of  the  Colgate-Palmolive  Co. 


Only  BRISK  has  FLUORIDE  85, 

gives  extra  protection  Fluoride  alone  can't  give... 
works  best  where  you  need  it  most 


Available  in  over  2400  BEN  FRANKLIN  STORES 


FLUORIDE  '85 


•«T  »"tS" 


Brisk's  Fluoride  actually  concentrates  in  weak  or  "soft"  spots  where 
decay  usually  starts  —  combines  with  tooth  enamel,  becomes  part 
of  the  tooth  itself  —  thus  protects  as  no  other  decay-fighter  can.  And 
Brisk's  new,  stay-active  decay-fighter  reaches  into  tight  crevices 
between  teeth  —  into  food-traps  where  decay  acids  form  —  starts 
working  instantly  to  defeat  a  major  cause  of  decay. 


FRANCHISED  BY  BUTLER  BROTHERS  •  HEADQUARTERS  IN  CHICAGO 


T 
V 
R 

69 


Bachelor  Serenade 


70 


(Continued  from  page  48) 
installation  includes  his  hi-fi  radio-phono 
equipment,  with  record  changer  and  rec- 
ord storage  compartments;  a  tape  re- 
corder, with  storage  room  below  for  plenty 
of  tapes;  cabinets  built  over  the  piano, 
with  room  for  quantities  pf  sheet  music; 
his  television  set,  and  a  motion-picture 
projector  and  necessary  equipment. 

"Really  somethin',  isn't  it?"  Frank 
smiled.  "Especially  when  you  realize  that 
I  put  in  all  this  stuff  myself,  thanks  to  the 
Kimball  design  for  the  music  wall — and 
the  help  of  a  couple  of  strong  arms  just  to 
lift  in  the  heavier  pieces.  Imagine  me, 
following  the  blueprint  and  putting  in  the 
uprights,  and  then  setting  in  the  cabinets 
and  turning  the  screws  and  standing  back 
to  admire  my  handiwork!  You  should 
pardon  my  pride — but,  after  all  I'm  a  per- 
former and  all  this  was  new  to  me." 

It's  obvious  that  it  was  fun  for  him  to 
put  in,  and  it's  fun  to  use.  But,  for  Frank, 
it  has  a  very  practical  side.  It's  here,  in 
this  room,  that  he  does  his  practice  work, 
recording  his  songs  and  playing  them  back, 
listening  critically.  Looking  at  some  mov- 
ies of  the  night-club  act  he  has  been  doing 
all  over  the  country  during  this  past  year, 
including  a  month  recently  at  the  Desert 
Inn,  in  Las  Vegas.  Correcting  his  own 
faults,  figuring  out  ways  to  make  the  act 
stronger  and  better.  Listening  to  the  play- 
backs of  his  words  and  his  songs,  con- 
stantly working  for  improvement  in 
everything  he  does.  It's  an  interesting 
insight  into  the  work  a  top  performer 
must  do  to  remain  a  top  performer — and 
Frank  is  wise  enough  in  the  ways  of  show 
business  to  need  no  reminder  of  that. 

For  relaxation,  he  leans  back  in  an  easy 
chair  and  listens  to  symphonies  and  or- 
chestral suites,  especially  some  of  the 
modern  ones — but,  oddly  enough,  few 
vocals:  "I  hear  so  much  vocal  music  as 
part  of  my  work  that  it  seems  more  restful 
to  turn  to  instrumentals  at  home.  Actually, 
I  love  all  kinds  of  music  and  have  started 
a  good  collection.  Sometimes,  as  I  listen,  I 
wonder  what  my  father  would  have 
thought  of  all  this  marvelous  electronic 
equipment,  with  everything  so  compact 
and  streamlined,  and  beautiful  besides." 

Tied  in  with  his  childhood  memories 
too,  is  undoubtedly  the  little  collection  of 
Madonnas,  a  few  in  the  music  room,  the 
rest  in  the  living  room.  There's  a  lovely 
carved  one  over  the  fireplace  and,  near  it, 
an  antique  polychrome  Madonna  and 
Child.  On  shelves  in  the  music  room  are 
some  fine  porcelains,  and  a  tiny,  crudely 
sculptured  mother  and  child  which  is  said 
to  date  back  to  about  1500  B.C.  Besides 
these,  there  are  little  French  figurines, 
some  souvenirs  of  trips  Frank  has  taken, 
and  a  pair  of  Dutch  wooden  sabots  which 
were  carved  out  especially  for  him,  one 
Wednesday  night  on  the  Godfrey  tele- 
vision program,  by  an  artist  who  worked 
at  the  side  of  the  stage  as  the  performance 
went  on.  It  had  taken  him  only  five  or  ten 
minutes  to  chisel  out  the  shoes  and  burn 
Frank's  name  into  the  sides  and  decorate 
them  with  a  bit  of  color,  and  Frank  thinks 
very  highly  of  them  and  of  the  skill  that 
produced  them. 

Furnishing  the  place,  bachelor  style, 
seems  to  have  been  fun  for  Frank.  A  huge 
antique  barometer  was  found  in  a  shop  in 
Florida  when  the  Godfrey  gang  broadcast 
from  Miami  Beach  last  winter.  Frank 
brought  his  new  treasure  back  with  him  in 
the  plane,  and  a  stewardess  suggested  he 
might  want  to  put  his  strange-looking 
package  in  the  baggage  compartment.  "It's 
fragile,"  Frank  said.  "I'd  better  keep  it  at 
my  seat.  It's  a  thermometer,  you  know." 
She  looked  puzzled,  and  he  wondered  why. 


Later,  when  he  realized  he  had  said 
"thermometer"  when  he  meant  "barom- 
eter," he  called  her  over.  "You  must  have 
thought  a  thing  that  big,"  he  grinned, 
"was  designed  to  take  the  temperature  of 
a  giraffe  with  a  very  high  fever!" 

The  whole  apartment  is  stunningly  mas- 
culine. Even  the  rows  of  plants  on  the 
window  sills  are  the  big,  sturdy  varieties 
which  would  be  a  man's  choice.  The  en- 
trance foyer  and  living-room  walls  are 
gray-green,  and  the  carpeting  is  gray. 
Two  big  gray  sofas  are  complemented  by 
red  brocade  chairs.  There  is  a  handsome 
Chinese  cabinet  in  black  and  gold  lacquer, 
a  large  marble-top  coffee  table,  a  gleaming 
silver  tea  and  coffee  service.  Bookshelves 
give  a  bright  note  with  their  paper  covers 
and  light  bindings.  Drapes  are  a  soft  gray, 
the  lamps  black  and  gold  and  red.  Even 
the  pictures  are  characteristically  mas- 
culine— some  Dufys,  matted  in  dark  green 
and  framed  in  white,  scenes  of  the  races 
at  Ascot  and  Epsom  Downs.  "All  I  have 
left  of  my  'racing  days'  are  these  pictures, 
my  memories  of  owning  race  horses  and 
of  playing  polo,  and  a  bagful  of  losing 
tickets  from  the  tracks,"  he  said,  and  you 
gather  he  doesn't  sigh  for  the  old  days. 

His  bedroom  is  furnished  in  light  woods 
for  the  wide,  high  chest,  the  dresser,  the 
bed  and  bed  tables.  The  walls  are  a  light 
cocoa  color,  drapes  and  bedspreads  char- 
treuse, the  rug  a  deeper  green,  and  the 
lamps  green  and  chartreuse.  One  lamp 
base,  next  to  his  bed,  is  a  radio -clock 
combination,  specially  made,  which  wakes 
him  up  to  music  in  the  morning,  turns  off 
his  favorite  program  automatically  at 
night,  and  includes  that  boon  to  a  bachelor, 
a  place  to  plug  in  his  morning  coffee  for  a 
quick,  steaming  pick-up  before  he  gets 
out  of  bed. 

He  used  to  go  overboard  on  clothes, 
when  he  was  a  young  fellow  making  a  big 
success  on  radio  with  Jack  Benny.  "You 
learn,  as  you  get  older,"  he  smiled.  "Now 
I  keep  up  my  wardrobe  by  replacing  the 
things  that  wear  out,  but  I  know  it's 
foolish  to  have  too  many  clothes  at-  a 
time.  Every  time  we  take  the  Godfrey 
shows  to  Miami  or  I  do  a  night-club 
appearance  in  a  resort  town,  I'm  a  sucker 
for  all  the  sports  things  I  see  in  the  shops. 
Then  I  come  home,  pack  them  away,  take 
them  out  once  in  a  while  to  brush  them 
off  and  chase  the  moths  out,  and  pack 
them  back  again. 

"In  New  York,"  he  added,  "I  wear 
conservative  business  clothes,  mostly  blue 


Features  in  Full  Color 

DAVE  GARROWAY 

"Wedding  for  Today" 

• 

JEAN   McBRIDE 

of  "Love  Of  Life" 

• 

THE  MERRY  MODERNAIRES 

of   Bob  Crosby's  Show 

• 

JEANNE  CAGNEY 

of  "Queen  For  A  Day" 

• 

all  in  the  AUGUST  issue  of 

TV  RADIO  MIRROR 
at  your  newsstand  July  5 


or  gray,  with  white  or  blue  shirts — more 
blue  ones  since  I'm  on  television,  because 
they  photograph  better.  Striped  ties  with 
solid  color  shirts,  solid  ties  with  patterned 
shirts.  I'm  a  pushover  for  yellow,  anything 
with  yellow  in  it — but,  unfortunately,  I 
can't  wear  yellow  suits!  Just  sports 
shirts.  I  like  slacks  and  loose  shirts  around 
the  house,  own  a  couple  of  sports  jackets 
and  a  few  sweaters.  That's  about  it." 

He  would  love  to  go  out  more  at  night 
and  dance  and  sit  around  the  clubs,  but 
doesn't  dare  stay  up  too  late.  "After  mid- 
night, I'd  be  liable  to  turn  into  a  pumpkin, 
at  my  age,"  he  says.  (His  age,  midway 
between  fifty  and  fifty-five,  hardly  shows 
and  he's  still  a  trim  five-feet-eight.) 

When  Frank  entertains  at  home,  it's  for 
close  friends:  "They  know  where  things 
are  kept,  they  can  find  the  kitchen  and  the 
refrigerator,  and  they  usually  help  them- 
selves— if  I  don't  get  around  to  doing  it." 
When  properly  persuaded,  on  special 
occasions,  he's  been  known  to  cook  a  tasty 
lasagna  and  serve  it  to  guests  in  the 
little  dining  room  off  the  foyer.  But, 
mostly,  his  entertaining  is  limited  to  spe- 
cial occasions  .and  old  friends. 

"My  hobbies  are  now  enclosed  by  the 
four  walls  of  the  music  room,"  he  says. 
"I  used  to  play  golf  a  lot,  but  that  takes 
all  day,  getting  to  wherever  you  are  going 
to  play  and  getting  back  again,  along  the 
crowded  highways  surrounding  a  city  like 
New  York.  Even  weekends,  I'm  apt  to 
have  a  club  date." 

His  night-club  act  includes  a  cute  girl 
named  Sally  Singer.  Sally  pretends  to  be 
a  swooning  bobby-soxer  who  interrupts 
Frank's  songs  by  asking  for  an  autograph. 
So  well  do  they  carry  this  off  that  girls 
often  come  up  from  the  audience  to  follow 
suit,  or  to  save  him  from  Sally!  "They're 
wonderful,"  he  says. 

And  how  come,  if  they're  so  wonderful, 
he's  still  a  bachelor?  How  come  the  apart- 
ment is  strictly  a  masculine  background? 

"My  sisters  try  to  give  the  place  a 
feminine  touch  sometimes,"  he  smiles.  "I 
have  two  sisters  who  sometimes  come  in 
when  I'm  away  and  re-arrange  all  the 
furniture,  with  nice  little  touches  here  and 
there.  It's  just  fine,  except  that  I  put 
everything  back  the  way  it  was,  handy  for 
me,  and  comfortable.  They  don't  mind, 
they  just  keep  trying.  I  don't  mind,  I  just 
keep  putting  things  back  the  way  they 
were.  I  really  appreciate  their  interest — 
and  now  it's  become  a  kind  of  little  game 
we  play. 

"Marriage  would  be  fine,"  he  adds,  more 
seriously,  "if  I  could  find  real  companion- 
ship with  someone  who  knows  what  it 
means  to  be  in  this  rather  crazy  business 
I'm  in.  Someone  who  would  understand 
about  the  traveling,  the  time  that  has  to  be 
given  to  constant  practice  and  rehearsals. 
Someone  mature  enough  to  know  these 
things    without    constant    explanation. 

"I'm  always  on  the  go,  these  days.  There 
are  the  night-club  engagements,  the  per- 
sonal appearances,  the  dozens  of  demands 
on  a  performer's  time.  There  is  all  the 
preparation  for  the  Godfrey  shows.  Arthur 
has  been  great  to  me,  and  I  want  to  keep 
on  giving  my  best.  Now  there's  a  new 
business  I'm  getting  into,  besides — a  rec- 
ord company,  in  association  with  a  music 
publishing  company.  You'll  be  hearing 
more  about  that  soon.  This  means  even 
less  leisure  time  than  before.  .  .  .  Any- 
how, who  would  want  to  marry  a  busy 
guy  like  me  who's  already  in  love  with  a 
piano,  a  hi-fi,  a  tape  recorder  and  movie 
projector,  and  a  record  collection?" 

So  says  Frank  Parker.  He'd  be  surprised 
how  many  feminine  hearts  would  find  that 
a  perfect  outline   of  a  lifetime   serenade! 


Family  Man 

(Continued  from  page  51) 
make  us — I  can  thank  working  with 
Grandfather  Weber  for  such  craftsmanship 
as  I  may  possess  today.  Not  only  as  an 
actor,"  Karl  laughs,  "but  also  as  a  stone 
mason,  mechanic,  carpenter,  gardener, 
house  painter  and  paper  hanger — in  short, 
a  journeyman. 

"In  the  old  country,"  he  explains, 
"Grandfather  Weber  had  been  an  ap- 
prentice blacksmith.  In  America,  he 
worked  for  the  railroad,  clearing  rights 
of  way  across  the  Mississippi  Valley.  But, 
whatever  the  trade  to  which  he  turned  his 
hand,  he  learned  well  the  tools  of  that 
trade,  and  he  valued  his  tools  and  re- 
spected them  ...  as  I  learned  to  do, 
profiting  by  his  experience.  It  was  a  lesson 
I  needed,  because— prior  to  that  day  in  the 
forest  when  the  falling  oak  gave  me  my 
first  awareness  and  respect  for  true  crafts- 
manship— I  used  to  prepare  for  a  day  in 
the  timber  by  giving  my  ax  a  few  slip- 
shod swipes  with  the  file  and  then,  hack- 
ing away  with  a  blunt  blade,  I'd  soon 
conk  out.  .  .  while  Grandfather,  who  had 
patiently  filed  and  polished  his  blade  to 
razor-edged  perfection,  would  be  as  fresh 
when  the  sun  set  as  he'd  been  when  it 
rose.  'I  let  the  tool  jwork  for  me,'  said 
Grandfather. 

"Grandfather  talked  a  lot  about  the 
value  of  a  long  apprenticeship  to  the  true 
artisan.  He  had  a  lot  of  maxims  about  the 
laborer  being  worthy  of  his  hire  and  the 
job  worth  doing  is  worth  doing  well.  He 
spoke  often,  and  with  respect,  of  'clear- 
eyed,  clear-headed,  competent  men.'  He 
liked  the  word  competent.  And  he  said 
you  could  always  count  on  the  honesty 
and   dependability   of  'the  family  man.' 

"Everything  Grandfather  said  and  did — 
above  all,  everything  he  was — has  been 
invaluable  to  me.  In  everything  I  do  with 
my  hands.  In  everything  I  do  profession- 
ally— stage,  radio,  television.  But  espe- 
cially television,  because  TV  is  breeding  a 
new  species  of  performer  ...  a  closely 
related  species  with  similar  work  habits, 
interests,  home  lives,  values  and  ultimate 
aims  ...  a  group  of  actors  unlike  those 
in  any  other  medium  or  in  any  other  age. 
A  'new-fashioned'  species  which,  curiously 
enough,  functions  pretty  much  according 
to  the  precepts  which  Grandfather  Weber 
both  practiced  and  preached." 

Karl  points  out  that  most  of  the  people 
he  works  with,  on  TV,  have  put  in  many 
years  of  hard  apprenticeship.  As  he  him- 
self has  done:  School  dramatics  at  Cornell 
College  in  Iowa  and  also  at  the  University 
of  Iowa,  to  which  he  later  transferred.  His 
first  professional  job,  playing  Shakespear- 
ean repertory  at  the  Old  Globe  Theater 
in  Cleveland,  Ohio,  during  the  Great  Lakes 
Exposition.  (In  that  company — all  college 
boys — were  such  later-famous  actors  as 
David  Wayne,  Arthur  Kennedy  and  Sam 
Wanamaker.) 

Then,  from  the  University  of  Iowa  to 
radio  in  Chicago.  Several  years  of  radio, 
during  which  one  of  Grandfather  Weber's 
maxims  served"  as  both  prop  and  spur. 
"We  all  do  our  best  when  playing  Shake- 
speare," Karl  observes.  "But  when  the 
material  is  indifferent  or  downright  bad 
.  .  .  when,  for  instance,  I  was  doing  what 
I  felt  were  inferior  radio  scripts  ...  it 
struck  me  that  I  was  doing  them,  never- 
theless, and  'any  job  worth  doing  is  worth 
doing  well'  Suddenly,  to  do  them  well  be- 
came more  of  a  challenge — and  a  victory 
—than  winning  applause  for  a  Shakespear- 
ean role." 

After  radio  in  Chicago  came  New  York 
.  .  and  more  radio,  and  a  couple  of  flop 
plays  on  Broadway,  and  one  successful 
play— "The  Respectful  Prostitute,"  which 
starred  Meg  Mundy.  .  .   .  More  recently, 


before  he 
comes 


.C/  • « • 

splash  yoursel 

ith  freshness 


Deodorant  Cologne 
with  APRIL  SHOWERS  fragrance 

Wrap  yourself  in  the  alluring  cloud  that  is  April  Showers  Cologne.  It's  the  nicest  way 
we  know  to  say,  "Darling!  You're  home!"  A  light-hearted  splashing  of  April  Showers 
makes  YOU  feel  happy,  too . . .  Always  fresh,  and  delectable.  Because  it  contains  a  new 
kind  of  deodorant  that  eliminates  body  odors,  releasing  that  springtime  April  Showers 
fragrance  .  . .  use  it  tip-to-toe  .  .  .  such  heavenly  luxury  for  only  ^^  y^v      , 

0 

CHERAMY  PERFUMER 


69° 

^»-^    <*^plus  tax 


71 


Karl  was  "alternate"  to  Leif  Erickson 
during  the  entire  run  of  the  Broadway  hit, 
"Tea  and  Sympathy."  ("An  'alternate,'" 
Karl  explains,  "is  a  sort  of  glorified  under- 
study, the  difference  being  that  the  alter- 
nate— unlike  the  understudy — is  not  re- 
quired to  remain  in  the  theater  during 
performances  of  the  play.  Much  of  the 
time  I  sat  at  home  and  collected  my  pay. 
But — since  a  star's  misfortune  is  an  alter- 
nate's break,  and  Erickson  was  twice  in- 
valided out  of  the  cast — I  did  get  to  play 
opposite  Deborah  Kerr  for  two  weeks, 
and  later  opposite  Joan  Fontaine,  who 
stepped  into  the  part  when  Deborah 
stepped  out.") 

And  now,  for  Karl,  the  doctor's  role 
in  NBC  Radio's  The  Doctor's  Wife  .  .  . 
the  exciting  assignment  as  Arthur  Tate 
in  CBS-TV's  Search  For  Tomorrow  .  .  . 
and  guest  spots  in  other  TV  dramas,  such 
as  the  judge  he  recently  played  on 
Robert  Montgomery's  presentation  of 
"Ephraim  Tutt." 

"Currently,"  says  Karl,  "I'm  also  doing 
a  rather  interesting  job  for  Jackie  Gleason 
Enterprises — that  of  recording  Dickens' 
'Tale  of  Two  Cities,'  in  which  I  play  the 
romantic  lead  of  Charles  Darnay.  I  also  do 
a  great  deal  of  recording  for  the  American 
Foundation  for  the  Blind.  I  talk  the 
'talking  books,' "  he  explains.  "The  one  I 
just  finished  was  the  first  volume  of  the 
Truman  memoirs,  'Year  of  Decision,'  for 
which  Truman  himself  recorded  the  intro- 
duction. Very  rewarding  work  it  is,  too 
.  .  .  the  kind  of  'reward'  that  stays  with 
you." 

It's  been  a  hard  apprenticeship  to  a 
craft,  nonetheless,  and  a  long  one.  None 
of  this  arriving  at  a  tremendous  financial 
and  career  success  too  soon — as  movie 
stars  often  do,  for  instance  .  .  .  which  may 
account  for  the  fact  that  so  few  of  this 
"new  species"  of  performers  are  exhibi- 
tionists or  spendthrifts,  and  so  many  are 
substantial  citizens,  family  men  with 
their  heads  on  their  shoulders  and  their 
feet  on  the  ground.  .  .  .  "The  Family 
Man  Playing  on  Television,"  said  Karl,  "is, 
I  think,  as  apt  a  title  or  description  as 
can  be  found  for  the  modern  actor  bred 
by  television. 

"The  honesty  and  dependability  which 
Grandfather  Weber  ascribed  to  'the  family 
man,'"  he  laughs,  "are  qualities  to  be 
hoped  for  in  every  man — whether  peren- 
nial bachelor  or  proud  father,  mimic  or 
missionary.  But,  on  TV,  they  are  assets 
without  which  you  could  not  survive  for 
long.  Machinery  is  terribly  honest.  In  other 
words,  the  camera  doesn't  lie.  Especially 
about  those  of  us  who,  like  myself,  play 
a  running  part  on  a  TV  serial— which 
means  that  we  are  in  the  homes  of  our 
viewers  almost  every  day. 

"In  a  sense,  we  live  out  a  story,  instead 
of  acting  it,  and  are  thought  of  more  as 
friends  and  neighbors  sharing  our  prob- 
lems, than  as  actors  performing  a  script. 
Because  this  is  so,  we  must  be  what  we 
seem  to  be.  For  instance,  Arthur  Tate  on 
Search  For  Tomorrow  is  a  sometimes  mis- 
guided but  essentially  honest,  good,  kind 
and  well-meaning  fellow.  If  I  were  not 
much  the  same,"  Karl  grins,  "sometimes 
misguided— but,  I  hope,  reasonably  honest 
and  kind  and  well-meaning — I  would  soon 
be  read  out  of  the  script  .  .  .  and  out 
of  the  home. 

"As    for     dependability:     When     you're 

playing  a  running  part  on  TV,  you  have  a 

script    to    learn    every    night,    five    nights 

a  week,  and  a  clock  to  watch— because  a 

T    split  second,   one   way   or   the   other,   can 

v    play    havoc    with    a    show.    On    TV,    the 

R    medium  which  can  least  tolerate  personal 

irresponsibility,  being  dependable  is  more 

necessary    than    having    the    genius    of    a 

72  Brando  or  the  gl£*mour  of  a  Lollobrigida. 


"To  be  one  of  the  'clear-eyed,  clear- 
headed, competent  men'  so  respected  by 
Grandfather  Weber,"  Karl  adds,  "is  also 
a  must  for  anyone  in  broadcasting.  Espe- 
cially so  on  television,  which  is  more  tax- 
ing, more  demanding  that  any  other 
medium  .  .  .  for  on  TV,  remember,  there 
are  no  retakes — all  your  mistakes  are  right 
out  in  view,  with  no  chance  of  undoing 
them.  However,  if  you  are  'clear-eyed 
and  clear-headed' — well -rested  and  alert, 
that  is — the  margin  for  error  is  narrowed 
appreciably.  And  being  'competent,'  pro- 
fessionally competent,  is  your  one  hope  of 
covering — if  not  erasing — a  mistake." 

Much  of  the  kinship  among  his  col- 
leagues, Karl  believes,  may  be  attributed 
to  the  fact  that,  by  and  large,  they  come 
from  similar  backgrounds  .  .  .  from  the 
Midwest  (as  Karl  himself  did)  .  .  .  from 
small  towns  (as  he  did)  .  .  .  many  of  them 
from  farms  .  .  .  "or,  as  I  did,"  he  says, 
"from  a  kind  of  farm — forty  acres,  lots  of 
milk  cows,  assorted  poultry,  truck  gardens 
— at  the  far  edge  of  town."  (The  town  was 
Columbus  Junction,  Iowa.) 

Many  of  TV's  regulars,  like  Karl  him- 
self, are  also  members  of  large  and  typi- 
cally average-American  families:  "We 
were  six,"  says  Karl,  "at  home.  One  of 
my  brothers  is  an  electronics  engineer,  one 
is  an  etymologist,  the  third  is  an  archi- 
tect. One  of  my  two  sisters  (both  now 
married)  is  a  C.P.A.  My  dad,  George 
William  Weber,  who  started  life  as  a 
schoolteacher,  was  to  become — succes- 
sively— superintendent  of  schools,  presi- 
dent of  the  local  bank,  owner  and  operator 
of  a  farm-produce  and  grain-elevator 
business,  and  is  now  a  state  senator  in 
Iowa.  My  mother's  'profession' — like  my 
wife's — is  that  of  housewife  and  mother 
.  .  .  the  one  profession  that  is  never  ex- 
pendable." 

r  rom  such  a  background  and  such  a 
family,  what  would  you  expect  of  a  young 
man  who  married  the  girl  with  whom  he 
went  to  college  but  that  he  would  be 
living  with  her  happily  ever  after?  Which 
is  what  "family  man"  Weber  is  doing. 

"We  started  going  steady,  Marge  and  I," 
says  Karl,  "at  Cornell,  back  in  Iowa.  Then 
we  were  separated  for  two  years,  while 
Marge  was  in  England  working  as  research 
assistant  to  a  professor  of  history.  It  has 
been  said  that  separation  extinguishes  a 
small  flame  but  fans  a  large  one.  To  ex- 
plain the  way  it  was  with  us,  I  need  only 
say  that,  as  immediately  as  possible  after 
Marge's  return,  we  were  married — by  her 
father — on  the  Cornell  campus  where  we 
first  met." 

Now  .  .  .  seventeen  years,  three  chil- 
dren and  one  dog  later  .  .  .  the  Webers 
are  living  in  the  house  they  built  three 
years  ago,  on  a  bluff  overlooking  Wood- 
cliff  Lake,  in  northern  New  Jersey.  The 
children  are  Lynn,  sixteen,  chic,  dark 
and  charming  to  the  eye,  who  has  recently 
given  up  a  career  in  baby-sitting  for  the 
more  lucrative  one  of  modeling  ("locally," 
her  father  says,  "not  in  New  York — not 
yet,  anyway");  Christopher,  a  sturdy,  en- 
terprising twelve-year-old;  and  Mark,  the 
youngest,  who  is  six.  The  dog,  a  collie 
registered  with  the  American  Kennel  Club 
as  "Star  Mist  of  Woodcliff,"  is  just  plain 
"Misty"  to  the  folks  at  home.  The  nine- 
room,  three-bathroom  house,  on  four 
acres  of  land,  is  of  cypress  construction 
faced  with  stone  .  .  .  and — as  might  be 
expected  of  a  man  with  Christian  Weber 
as  a  forbear — Karl,  the  journeyman,  has 
been  on  the  job  from  the  first  spadeful  of 
the  excavation  to  the  laying  on  of  the  roof. 

"I  did  all  the  stone  masonry  myself,"  he 
says,  with  proper  pride,  "me,  and  my 
cement-mixer!  I  even  quarried  the  red- 
stone  for  the  landscaping  of  the  bluff. 
I've  done  all  the  terracing  and  planting, 


some  of  the  cabinet  work  inside,  all  the 
painting  and  papering,  helped  put  in  the 
macadam  road  and  driveways  .  .  .  and, 
after  three  years  in  residence,  there's 
still  more  to  be  done!" 

An  extraordinary  house,  as  fabulous  to 
look  at  as  it  is  functional  to  five  in,  its 
"big  deal"  is  the  curved,  35-by-25-foot 
living  room,  the  front  wall  of  which  is 
glass — a  35-foot  wall  of  Thermopane — 
and  the  back  wall  consisting  of  a  25-foot 
stone  fireplace  framed  by  a  cherry  over- 
mantel, cherry  bookshelves  and  matching 
cabinets  which  contain  the  TV  set,  hi-fi 
equipment  and  radio.  "Mostly  cherry 
paneling  and  glass,"  Karl  says  of  the 
living  room.  "Marge  made  the  draperies — 
bought  hundreds  of  yards  of  ecru  denim 
at  thirty-five  cents  a  yard,  and  put  in 
countless  thousands  of  stitches! 

"Usually,  however,  the  curtains  are  not 
drawn,"  Karl  adds,  "and  to  sit  by  the 
fire  on  a  winter's  day,  as  we  often  do, 
and  watch  the  snow  drift  by  the  wall  of 
glass,  the  birch  trees  making  patterns, 
a  flock  of  red-breasted  birds  winging  by, 
is  to  be — warm  and  spellbound — in  a 
winter  wonderland.  Foxes  come  to  call, 
too,  and  deer.  Forty-five  minutes  from 
Broadway  .  .  .  and  deer  tracks  in  the 
snow! 


In  the  spring,  there  are  the  dogwoods — 
we  have  literally  thousands  of  them.  And. 
in  the  summer,  our  beautiful,  plentiful 
vegetable  garden,  quite  a  large  rose  gar- 
den, and  a  separate  cutting  garden.  Gar- 
dening," Karl  says  "is  a  hobby  Marge 
shares  with  me.  It  is  my  great  hobby,  in 
fact  .  .  .  and  also  derives  from  Grand- 
father Weber — of  whom  people  used  to 
say:  'Christian  Weber  can  stick  a  hickory 
ax-handle  in  the  ground  and  it  will  sprout 
leaves.' 

"But,"  Karl  continues  soberly,  "although 
a  man  can  build  a  house  of  stone  and 
wood,  pay  the  bill  and  all  that,  it  is 
a  woman  who  creates  the  atmosphere  in 
which  the  life  of  the  house  is  lived.  And 
Marge  is  the  creator  of  the  clear,  bright, 
warming  atmosphere  in  which  the  life 
of  our  house  is  lived.  ...  I  would  say 
this  of  Majorie:  She  makes  a  Fine  Art  of 
living.  The  children  bear  witness  to  this. 
They  are  attractive,  they  are  tractable, 
because  they  are  appreciated  as  well  as 
loved.  We  have  no  domestic  help  at  all, 
so  they  feel  needed,  too.  It's  a  cooperative, 
all-for-one  and  one-for-all  family  life  we 
live — and  not  only  in  the  bedmaking  and 
dishwashing  departments,  either!  Every 
night,  I  sit  down  with  my  children  and 
we  do  our  'homework'  together — they  with 
their  schoolbooks,  and  I  with  my  script. 
Chris  'cues'  me  ...  as  I  cue  them,  when- 
ever  they  ask. 

"The  fact  that  Marge  and  I  are  com- 
pletely non-competitive,"  he  says  serious- 
ly, "contributes  to  the  completely  normal, 
average-American  life  we  live.  There  are 
many  happy  marriages  among  people  in 
the  same  profession,  but — I  like  it  this 
way.  Sort  of  the  way  it  was  at  home,  in 
Iowa.  Marge  is  interested  in  my  work, 
understands  it  and  is  very  helpful.  But 
she  is  not  at  all  a  'studio  wife,'  and  is  the 
least  theatrical  person  I've  ever  known. 
She  doesn't  tend  to  dramatize  things — or 
to  dramatize  herself,  least  of  all." 

Karl  tells  about  the  accident:  Shortly 
after  the  Webers  were  in  the  house,  and 
were  putting  in  the  macadam  driveways, 
a  truck  pulled  up  to  the  door  one  morn- 
ing, heavily  laden  with  boiling  hot  asphalt. 
As  Marge — wearing  shorts,  for  it  was 
summertime — stood  near  by,  talking  with 
the  driver,  something  in  the  truck  sud- 
denly gave  way  and  a  stream  of  the 
molten   stuff  poured   over  her   bare   legs. 

It  was  pain  not  to  be  borne  .  .  .  but 
Marjorie,    says    Marjorie's    husband,    bore 


it.  There  were  weeks  in  the  hospital  that 
ran  into  months.  There  were  skin  grafts. 
And  more  pain.  Then  came  the  day  when 
the  legs  were  unveiled.  "The  doctors  were 
there,"  Karl  recalls  that  moment,  "I  was 
present.  As  the  bandages  were  removed, 
there  was  a  moment  of  silence — no  more 
than  that.  Then:  'Not  exactly  cheesecake,' 
said  the  blue-eyed  blonde  who  is  my  wife. 
'Strudel!'  she  said. 

"Once,  during  our  courting  days  in  col- 
lege," Karl  recalls,  "I  was  doing  the  Lord 
Byron  bit — sensitive  and  all  that — and 
Marge  said,  'This  is  reality.  Facts.  This  is 
the  way  things  are.'  That's  the  way  she 
was,  in  her  hospital  room  that  morning, 
three  years  ago.  And  I  realized  anew  that 
that's  the  way  Marge  is.  Everyone  in  the 
hospital  realized  it,  too.  The  surgeon 
absolutely  adored  her.  The  nurses,  too. 
And  even  the  insurance  adjuster,  who 
went  about  saying,  'Anything  you  say, 
Mrs.  Weber,  anything  you  want!' 

"As  for  our  neighbors,  they  would  do 
almost  anything  for  Marge — just  as  we 
would  for  them.  As  a  matter  of  fact,"  says 
Karl,  "there's  kind  of  an  odd  thing  going 
on,  out  there  in  Woodcliff  Lake.  A  social 
life  that's  rather  exceptional.  Ten  or  fifteen 
couples  of  us,  all  congenial.  We've  organ- 
ized a  Great  Books  Club.  I'm  a  director 
of  the  Community  Theater  Group.  We 
put  on  plays,  skits,  do  some  calypso  sing- 
ing and  so  on.  Last  spring,  I  was  in  charge 
of  the  annual  PTA  Fathers'  Night  at  the 
school.  All  the  local  fathers  took  part.  We 
put  on  a  Kaufman  sketch.  I  sang,  and 
played  guitar  and  the  mambo  drums. 
Others  did  solo  turns,  too. 

"But  what  we  have,"  Karl  continues, 
"is  something  that  goes  deeper  than  the 
activities  we  share.  People  in  a  suburban 
community  don't  usually  communicate 
with  each  other  too  well — they  tend  to 
conceal,  rather  than  reveal.  But,  by  some 
happy  accident,  we  have  sort  of  abolished 
the  barrier  to  communication.  Because  we 
have,  there  are  no  petty  rivalries.  We  all 
support  each  other.  We  made  a  kind  of 
resolve:  Let's  appreciate  each  other,  help 
each  other,  love  each  other.  And  we  do. 

"I  take  what  is,  I  suppose,"  Karl  admits, 
"an  essentially  tragic  view  of  life.  We're 
all  born  to  die,  and  we  can't  beat  it.  So 
.  .  .  don't  waste  a  moment.  'Gee,  honey, 
you  were  great!'  Say  it.  Don't  hold  back. 
.  .  .  You  are  born.  You  die.  This — as 
Marge  would  say — is  the  way  things  are. 
But  if,  in  the  meantime,  you  have  done  a 
good  job  .  .  ." 

This  brings  Karl  back  to  the  new  breed 
of  actors  and  the  many  attributes  they 
have  in  common.  Of  these,  the  most 
interesting  to  Karl  is  that  "We  are  now 
living  on  many  levels.  So  many  are  mov- 
ing to  the  country,  for  example,  buying  or 
building  their  own  homes,  working  with 
their  hands,  putting  down  roots — the  kind 
that  reach  out  and  grow.  Becoming  less 
egocentric,"  Karl  laughs,  "and  more  'the 
family  man,'  the  good  neighbor — a  work- 
ing member  of  a  community,  instead  of  a 
solitary  Hamlet  on  stage,  looking  across 
the  footlights  at  his  fellowman.  .  .  . 

"The  performer,  1956  model,"  says  Karl, 
"is  also  less  of  an  exhibitionist  than  his 
predecessors  tended  to  be.  He  isn't  always 
'on.'  He  applies  the  brakes  to  his  tempera- 
ment. Being  somewhat  more  homebody 
than  ham,  he  doesn't  make  the  gossip 
columns  very  often.  He  is  as  devoted  to 
his  craft  as  any  of  his  theatrical  fore- 
bears .  .  .  but  he  simply  doesn't  sacrifice 
the  fireside — and  all  that  it  means — to  the 
limelight  and  the  neons." 

Watching  Karl,  listening  to  him,  what 
could  anyone  think  but:  How  right  he  is, 
how  wise  and  fine  .  .  .  and  how  very  lucky 
that  once,  in  the  big  timber  of  the  Missis- 
sippi Valley,  he  watched  and  listened  to — 
and  learned  from — Grandfather  Weber. 


SEE  THIS  MIRACLE  HAPPEN  TO  YOU  IN  20  SECONDS 

suddenly 

you  seem  to  have  grown 

an  entirely  new  and  flawless  skin! 


So  subtly  does  LANOLIN  PLUS  Liquid 
Make-Up  banish  those  "things"  in  your 
face  you  don't  want  seen  ...  no  one  even 
suspects  make-up.  Little  blemishes,  dark 


patches,  skin  imperfections  are  covered 
beautifully  without  masking. 

And  because  only  this  remarkable 
make-up  offers  skin-softening,  exclusive- 
formula  LANOLIN  PLUS  Liquid  ...  it 
goes  on  more  evenly,  makes  skin  softer 
and  smoother,  helps  correct  dryness  too. 
You'll  look  a  million  times  better  .  .  . 
when  you  choose  one  of  the  6  exquisite 
shades  of  LANOLIN  PLUS  Liquid 
Make-Up  that  makes  you  a  happier 
woman  in  seconds.  At  cosmedc  counters 
everywhere.  $1  plus  tax. 


IANOIIN  PLUS  "POWDER  PLUS" 
Pressed  Powder  in  a  Beautiful  Compact 

Use  it  over  LANOLIN  PLUS  Liquid 
Make-Up  for  a  charming  mat  finish  or 
touch-up.  Or  as  a  complete  make-up  in 
itself.  Shades  harmonize  perfectly  with 
LANOLIN  PLUS  Liquid  Make-Up  and 
other  types  of  make-up.  $1.25  plus  tax. 


IT'S  THE  PLUS  IN 


^^Zpfajt,  THAT  MAKES  THE  DIFFERENCE 


73 


Ideas,  Inc. 


(Continued  from  page  65) 
imagination.  "After  all,"  he  says,  "there 
are  only  so  many  basic  concepts.  Take  the 
atom  bomb,  for  example:  Dr.  Einstein's 
equation  made  it  possible.  And  there's 
only  one  basic  idea  behind  the  electric 
light  and  one  behind  the  telephone.  After 
these  basics,  everything  new  is  simply  a 
twist,  a  gimmick,  or  a  new  combination  of 
old  ideas.  That's  where  People  Are  Funny, 
House  Party  and  You  Bet  Your  Life  came 
from.  They  were  all  twists  on  old  ideas." 
Guedel  continues,  "Anybody  who  thinks 
can  have  ideas.  Ultimately,  if  they  watch 
their  opportunities,  luck  and  fate  will  see 
that  their  ideas  pay  off." 

Where  do  John's  ideas  come  from? 
Everywhere.  For  instance,  People  Are 
Funny  popped  up  one  day  about  fourteen 
years  ago,  when  John  and  Art  Linkletter 
were  lunching  at  the  world  famous  Holly- 
wood Brown  Derby.  For  most  radio  and 
TV  executives  and  talent,  the  Derby  is  a 
Hollywood  habit,  and  the  habitues  all 
seem  to  surfer  from  the  same  unconscious 
reflex — scribbling  rating  statistics  on  the 
tablecloths. 

This  daily  gathering  of  the  TV-and- 
Radio  Row  denizens  had  been  viewed  by 
everyone  in  the  industry,  day  after  day, 
without  exciting  any  reaction  more  seri- 
ous than  a  wish  for  a  mid-afternoon  bi- 
carbonate of  soda.  But  Art  Linkletter, 
viewing  the  melange  over  his  avocado  sal- 
ad, happened  to  say,  "People  are  funny  .  .  ." 

John  Guedel  promptly  exclaimed: 
"What  a  great  title  for  a  radio  show!" 

A  thousand  people  could  watch  the 
Derbyites  lunch  for  a  thousand  days  and 
never  visualize  that  particular  human  cir- 
cus as  a  potential  radio-television  show. 
But,  when  the  wheels  in  John  Guedel's 
head  go  round,  every  idea  rotates  with  a 
built-in  "twist." 

Again,  to  illustrate  this  quirk  in  John's 
mental  make-up,  consider  the  strange  cir- 
cumstances which  inspired  Groucho's  ra- 
dio and  television  show,  You  Bet  Your  Life. 
John  Guedel  and  Art  Linkletter  were  do- 
ing a  People  Are  Funny  skit  on  a  variety 
show.  Groucho  was  on  the  same  show  in  a 
skit  with  Bob  Hope.  Guedel,  standing  in 
the  wings,  saw  Hope  accidentally  drop  his 
script.  Rather  than  break  the  continuity 
by  stooping  to  pick  it  up,  Hope  started  to 
ad-lib.  With  a  brave  flair,  Groucho  threw 
his  own  script  on  top  of  Hope's,  and  to- 
gether they  ad-libbed  for  ten  minutes. 
Says  John:  "Groucho  was  funnier  without 
his  script  than  he  was  with  it."  What' 
seemed  to  be  a  disadvantage  at  that  mo- 
ment, Guedel  saw  he  could  turn  to  his 
own  advantage.  Turning  disadvantages 
into  advantages  is  one  way  idea-men  pro- 
duce new  combinations:  "I  decided  to  use 
Groucho  at  his  best — ad-libbing." 

John  had  to  sell  Groucho  on  the  ad-lib 
idea.  And,  once  sold,  John  had  to  find  a 
suitable  format.  You  Bet  Your  Life,  which 
John  describes  as  a  twist  on  the  old  game- 
of-chance  "pyramiding"  principle,  was  fi- 
nally decided  on.  Added  to  that  were 
"average"  contestants  to  contrast  with 
Groucho's  brittle  wit.  Then  Groucho,  in  a 
new  package,  was  complete  and  ready  for 
sale.  The  Groucho- Guedel  partnership 
made  an  audition  record,  using  Linklet- 
ter's  House  Party  audience.  Five  weeks  la- 
ter, the  show  was  sold — one  of  the  quick- 
est sales  of  a  new  property  in  the  history 
of  network  radio. 
T  Guedel's  ideas  are  double-barreled,  in 
v  the  sense  that  he  has  quantity  as  well  as 
R  quality.  Psychologists  tell  us  not  to  be 
afraid  of  turning  out  one  hundred  poor 
ideas  if,  in  the  process,  one  really  great 
idea  is  born.  "I'm  the  first  to  admit,"  savs 
74  J 


John,  "that  not  all  my  ideas  pay  off.  We 
had  a  show  once,  called  Daydream,  into 
which  we  put  months  of  work.  Finally  sold 
it — but  before  it  went  on  the  air,  I  decided 
it  wasn't  really  as  good  as  we  thought.  It 
was  never  produced.  We've  had  other  shows 
on  the  air  for  just  a  few  weeks,  then  they 
died.  That  is  one  of  the  problems  in  this 
business — you've  got  to  look  at  an  idea 
and  ask  yourself,  'What  will  this  be  like 
on  the  two-hundredth  broadcast?'  You 
have  failures — the  important  thing  is  to 
keep  having  ideas — and  not  let  the  bad 
ones  scare  you." 

A  peek  into  any  People  Are  Funny  idea 
meeting  gives  a  fair  picture  of  Guedel  and 
staff  in  action:  Emcee  Art  Linkletter  sits 
at  one  end  of  the  long  table,  flanked  by 
secretary  and  script-girl  Gene  Allen; 
"Pop"  Guedel,  as  John's  father  is  lovingly 
called,  sits  in  the  middle;  and  John, 
flanked  by  associate  producer  Irv  Atkins, 
scratch  pad,  and  his  box  of  pipes  and  to- 
bacco, sits  at  the  other.  Nine  other  mem- 
bers of  the  People  Are  Funny  staff  round 
out  the  assembly,  all  of  whom  are  spout- 
ing ideas  for  the  show  at  machine-gun 
speed.  John's  favorite  word  is,  "Why?" 
If  the  suggestion  can  be  supported  with 
valid  reasons,  it  has  a  chance  of  greeting 
fifteen  million  viewers.  Art's  favorite  word 
at  these  sessions  is  "Because  .  .  ."  He 
generally  has  at  least  three  good  reasons 
to  support  every  suggestion  he  makes. 

At  these  meetings,  John's  powers  of  con- 
centration are  prodigious.  Set  down  in  the 
environment  of  the  foyer  of  Linkletter's 
Vine  Street  theater,  with  electricians 
hanging  lights  and  carpenters  hammering 
sets  together  in  the  background,  he  can 
somehow  digest  and  evaluate  the  ideas 
bouncing  around  the  table.  These  are  hu- 
morous meetings,  too,  for  both  John  and 
Art  are  fast  with  a  quip,  frequently  recit- 
ing a  "punch  line"  in  unison. 

T:he  idea  for  John  and  Art's  NBC-TV 
spectacular,  "Inside  Beverly  Hills,"  was 
first  inspired  by  a  series  of  successful 
magazine  articles  on  famous  cities.  Think- 
ing by  analogy— a  sure  idea-producer — 
John  asked  himself,  "Why  not  on  TV?"  One 
television  executive  to  whom  Guedel  sug- 
gested it  was  unimpressed.  "An  area 
show?"  he  said  querulously.  "Too  expensive 
and  no  one  would  be  interested."  John,  a 
man  with  the  public's  taste,  liked  his  own 
idea.  He  disagreed,  and  "Inside  Beverly 
Hills"  was  shortly  produced.  The  result  of 
this  idea?  The  highest  rated  non-book 
Sunday  spec,   with   a  54,000,000   audience. 

With  all  of  his  achievements,  Guedel  be- 
lieves in  luck.  "Fate,"  he  says,  "laid  strong 
hands  on  our  success."  He  considers  him- 
self average:  "I'm  average  height  and 
weight,  wear  an  average-size  hat  and 
shoes.  I've  average  taste  .  .  ."  And  he  likes 
to  point  out  that,  since  a  $250,000  yearly 
income  has  afflicted  "average"  John  Gue- 
del, others  can  catch  the  bug,  too. 

John  was  born  in  the  small  town  of 
Portland,  Indiana.  His  father  manufac- 
tured dashboards,  a  business  John  was 
destined  to  take  over.  John  remembers  the 
first  time  Fate  stepped  in,  when  he  was 
still  only  six  years  old:  "Henry  Ford  de- 
cided to  make  his  own  dashboards,"  he 
says,  "and  my  father  was  out  of  business." 

John's  father  wanted  to  move  to  either 
California  or  Florida.  His  first  choice  was 
Florida.  "It  was  raining  when  Pop  stepped 
off  the  train,"  John  recalls.  "He  returned 
the  same  day,  saying,  'Pack  up,  we're  go- 
ing to  California.'  .  .  .  Here,"  John  points 
out,  "Fate  took  a  second  hand,  for,  if  I  had 
been  raised  in  Florida,  I  never  would  have 
had  access  to  big-time  radio  and  televi- 
sion." 


When  John  was  a  youngster,  there  were 
times  when  his  dreams  took  on  more  re- 
ality than  the  solid  world  around  him. 
This  may  have  been  the  result  of  an  un- 
fortunate accident  which  took  the  life  of 
his  closest  boyhood  pal.  John  missed  him 
so  much,  he  substituted  an  imaginary 
playmate  named  "Pern"  who  ate  and  slept 
with  him.  John  held  doors  open  longer 
than  necessary,  so  Pern  could  go  through. 
Extra  plates  were  set  at  the  table  for  Pern 
("It  was  a  great  way,"  says  John,  "to  get 
rid  of  half  my  spinach") .  And,  finally,  Pern 
went  on  the  train  to  California. 

"Pern  and  I  were  playing  on  the  back 
porch  of  the  Santa  Fe  Limited,"  says  John. 
"Climbing  on  the  rail,  he  suddenly,  fell 
off — in  the  middle  of  Kansas.  I  went  into 
the  car,  screaming,  'Pern  fell  off  the  train!' 
The  conductor  stopped,  backed  up,  and, 
when  Pern  wasn't  to  be  found,  my  parents 
had  the  embarrassing  duty  of  explaining 
that  Pern  was  imaginary.  Pern  never  came 
back." 

Later,  when  settled  in  Beverly  Hills, 
John's  imagination  turned  to  business — 
he  was  all  of  nine  years  old  when  he 
opened  a  string  of  soft  drink  stands,  the 
first  called  Better  Half,  the  second,  Morn- 
ing After,  and  the  third,  Morning  After 
#34!  John  says,  "#34  made  it  look  like  a 
chain." 

More  ingenuity  was  shown  when  John 
gave  his  eight-year-old  assistants  celluloid 
buttons  with  "Manager"  printed  in  bold 
letters.  "The  kids  worked  for  nothing,"  he 
continues,  "because  they  were  proud  of 
the  title.  Oh,  not  really  for  nothing.  I  let 
them  drink  all  the  pop  they  wanted  be- 
tween 9:30  and  10:00  every  morning — 
when  it  was  foggy  and  the  pop  didn't  taste 
too  good." 

In  describing  the  teen-age  Guedel,  his 
high-school  annual  says,  "Nothing  great 
was  ever  achieved  without  enthusiasm" — 
a  completely  adequate  description  of 
John's  personality:  He  was  manager  of 
the  varsity  football  and  golf  teams;  on  the 
staff  of  the  school  magazine  (The  Watch- 
tower);  played  "B"  basketball  (1930 
champs) ;  acted  in  all  the  school  plays; 
was  School  Commissioner  of  Publicity, 
Chief  Justice  of  the  Boy's  Court,  president 
of  the  scholarship  society  (The  Ephebians, 
California's  "A"  student  society,  whose 
ring  he  prizes  and i still  wears),  president 
of  the  Knights;  president  of  the  1930  Boys 
League;  president  of  the  debate  squad, 
and  president  of  the  1931  student  body.' 
(Currently,  there  is  no  President  of  Gue- 
del Productions — for  John  still  believes  in 
distributing  titles.  He  now  has  sixty  em- 
ployees— and  calls  them  all  "vice-presi- 
dent") 

After  high  school,  John  spent  one  year 
at  UCLA  studying  economics.  When  the 
market  crash  wiped  out  his  father's  real- 
estate  holdings,  he  left  school  to  earn 
money.  He  worked  as  an  "assistant  land- 
scape gardener"  ("I  pushed  a  wheelbar- 
row"), demonstrated  department-store  toy 
games,  and  worked  as  a  day  laborer  for 
the  WPA.  He  also  sold  advertising  "stick  - 
um"  paper  in  Ohio  and  Indiana. 

Fate  stepped  in  for  the  fourth  time,  in 
the  summer  of  1933,  when  John  spent  a 
weekend  at  the  beach.  For  want  of  com- 
panionship, he  circled  the  "No  Trespass- 
ing" signs  posted  on  the  sands  of  the  Bel 
Air  Bay  Club  to  hunt  up  some  of  his  old 
cronies.  ("When  the  family  was  in  the 
chips,  we  belonged  to  the  club.")  Playing 
volley  ball  was  his  old  friend,  Hal  Roach, 
Jr.  After  greetings  were  exchanged  and 
John's  financial  position  was  made  known, 
Roach  said,  "You  were  always  fast  with  a 
quip.  My  dad  is  trying  out  junior  writers — 


why   don't  you   take   a   try   at   the   job?" 

"I  was  always  going  to  be  a  business 
man,"  says  John.  "Never  seriously  consid- 
ered writing — then  Fate  plopped  a  $25-a- 
week  job  right  in  my  lap.  Four  weeks  at 
Roach's,  and  I  was  fired.  Fate  hadn't  in- 
tended me  to  be  that  lucky.  But  the  job 
had  whetted  my  appetite  for  writing.  I 
started  turning  out  short  stories — and  I 
have  one  hundred  and  sixteen  rejection 
slips  to  prove  it." 

In  the  course  of  the  next  few  months, 
John  sold  one  five-dollar  joke  to  Esquire 
and  one  fifteen-dollar  story  to  a  confession 
magazine.  Then,  one  day,  he  met  an  old 
high  school  chum  who  was  working  as  a 
cartoonist.  They  decided  to  pool  their  tal- 
ents— his  friend  was  to  draw  the  cartoons, 
John  was  to  write  the  captions.  They  sent 
a  sample  of  their  work  to  all  the  newspa- 
per syndicates  in  alphabetical  order.  NEA, 
the  Scripps-Howard  Syndicate  in  Cleve- 
land, was  the  first  to  respond.  "They  want- 
ed the  continuity  without  the  cartoons," 
says  John.  "So  I  borrowed  seventy  dollars 
on  my  old  Ford,  and  went  to  Cleveland  to 
write  a  humorous  column  called  'Barbs.' " 

Whenever  he  had  a  chance,  John  took  a 
crack  at  the  motion-picture  industry  in 
his  column,  making  sure  to  send  a  copy  to 
the  producer  or  studio  he  happened  to  be 
insulting  at  the  moment.  Roach  took  the 
bait  a  second  time  ("He  figured  it  was  bet- 
ter having  me  working  for  him"),  and 
John  was  back  on  the  payroll.  John  was 
glad  to  be  back  in  California.  "Cleveland 
winters  are  cold,"  he  says,  with  a  shiver, 
"and  I  had  no  overcoat.  Don't  know  which 
is  worse — no  coat  or  no  calories.  In  the 
next  two  years  at  Roach's,  I  was  fired  six 
times.  After  the  last  and  final  firing,  I 
thought  maybe  a  copywriter's  job  at  an 
advertising  agency  might  be  for  me.  As 
luck  would  have  it,  the  first  place  I  applied 
hired  me  to  write  jokes  for  a  radio  show. 
Fate,  it  seems,  had  stepped  in  again." 

Once  in  radio,  Lady  Luck  didn't  give  up 
on  Guedel.  After  twenty-two  weeks  of 
joke  writing,  he  was  assigned  the  "Reun- 
ion of  the  States"  series  for  Forest  Lawn. 
At  the  end  of  four  years,  he  was  still  writ- 
ing the  dramas  when,  at  the  library  one 
day,  researching  "Garfield,"  by  accident— 
or  luck — he  pulled  down  a  book  of  games. 
John  thought:  Old  parlor  games  in  the 
new  radio  medium — and  Eureka!  the  stunt 
audience-participation  show  was  born. 

Gue'del's  first  show,  Pull  Over,  Neighbor, 
was  turned  over  to  him — by  chance,  again 
— by  its  producer  Clyde  Scott,  who  gave 
up  production  to  take  a  sales  manager's 
job  at  KFI.  Originally  a  traffic  quiz,  John 
introduced  his  first  silly  game  on  "Neigh- 
bor": A  contestant  tried  to  sing  "Smiles" 
while  filling  his  mouth  with  ice  cubes  at 
the  end  of  each  line.  The  stunt  made  Los 
Angeles  laugh  for  weeks.  Neighbor 
changed  titles  in  1941,  becoming  All 
Aboard,  and  again  in  1942,  when  Linklet- 
ter  and  Guedel  met,  exchanged  ideas,  and 
People  Are  Funny  was  born. 

People  Are  Funny  soon  went  coast-to- 
coast,  bringing  John  to  the  big-time.  Pro- 
duction chores  on  the  Red  Skelton  show 
followed,  then  the  Ozzie  and  Harriet  Nel- 
son radio  show,  all  topped  off  by  House 
Party  and  You  Bet  Your  Life. 

On  weekends,  John  is  forced  to  create 
new  ideas  to  entertain  his  children,  John, 
Jr.,  ten,  and  Heidi,  seven.  "After  we've 
seen  all  the  Western  movies  in  town,"  he 
says,  "we  ride  our  motor  bike  up  into  the 
Beverly  Hills  to  find  'bad  men.'  It  seems 
to  me  we've  shot  all  the  badmen  on  this 
continent,  and  I'm  trying  to  think  of  some 
new  area — within  a  motor-bike  ride — 
where  the  'bandits'  will  be  more  plentiful." 
Whether  creating  for  his  children  or  for 
the  American  radio-television  audience, 
for  idea-man  Guedel,  there  are  always 
new  worlds  to  conquer. 


PHOTOPLAY 


Sl«mp»d  by  Se»**cisi  — - 


'stamped 

by 

scandal55 

the 

Jeanne  Crain- 

Paul  Brinkman 

breakup 

stuns 

Hollywood ! 


AT  NEWSSTANDS  NOW 


also  in 


PHOTOPLAY 


"I  WAS   LETTING   'MARTY'   DOWN!"   .   .   Ernest   Borgnine's 
wife  takes  a  cold  look  at  some  personal  problems 

TAB   HUNTER!  "Caught  in  That  Tender  Trap?" 

EXCLUSIVE!      "The    Sexiest    Girl    In    Town"— PHOTOPLAY'S 
Earl  Wilson  in  sizzling  interview  with  Cyd  Charisse 

Spring   Byington   answers   your  letters   and   Sidney   Skolsky,   Cal 
York  and  Ruth  Waterbury  bring  you  the  newsiest  gossip  in  town. 

PHOTOPLAY— at  newsstands  now— 20^ 

SAVE  NOW  WITH  A  PHOTOPLAY  SUBSCRIPTION 


■  mail  this 

•  PHOTOPLAY 

Dept.  TVRM7-56 

•  205  E.  42  Street, 

New  York 

17. 

N.  Y. 

— Check  One — 

•  Sirs:   (a)   Sen 

d   me 

the   next 

12 

issues 

of  PHOTOPLAY  for 

only  $2. 

$2 

enclosed 

□ 

Bill   me    □ 

•             (b)  Send   me 

the  next 

24 

issues 

of  PHOTOPLAY  for 

only  $3. 

$3 

enclosed 

□ 

Bill    me   □ 

—Check  One— 

J       □  Extend 

my  present  subscri 

ption 

□  New  subscription                            I 

J  City 

.  .  .    State 1 

75 


All  times  listed  are  Eastern  Daylight 
Time.  These  are  network  programs.  Local 
stations    may    substitute    or    re-schedule. 


nside  Radio 


Monday  through  Friday 


NBC 


MBS 


ABC 


CBS 


Morning    Programs 


8:30 
8:45 

Local  Program 

9:00 
9:15 
9:30 

Robert  Hurleigh 
Easy  Does  It 
Mutual  Magazine 

Breakfast  Club 

News  Of  America 

10:00 
10:15 

10:30 
10:45 

Weekday 

Cecil  Brown 
Footnotes  To 

Medical  History 
Five-Star  News 
10:35  Johnny  Olsen 

News 

11:05  Story  Time 

Queen  For  A  Day 

My  True  Story 

When  A  Girl  Marries 
Whispering  Streets 

Arthur  Godfrey  Time 

11:00 

11:15 
11:30 
11:45 

Weekday 

Your  Happy  Holiday 

Presenting 
Constance  Bennett 

Arthur  Godfrey 
(con.) 

Make  Up  Your  Mind 
Howard  Miller  Show 

Afternoon    Programs 


12:00 

12:15 
12:30 
12:45 

Noon  News 

12:10  Ed  Ladd's 
Music  Box 

Valentino 

Frank  Farrell 
12:25  Sunshine 
Boys 

Wendy  Warren  & 

The  News 
Backstage  Wife 
Helen  Trent 
Our  Gal  Sunday 

1:00 

1:15 

-1:30 

1:45 

News,  Cedric  Foster 
Music 

Luncheon  With 
Lopez 

Paul  Harvey,  News 
Ted  Malone 

Road  Of  Life 
Ma  Perkins 
Young  Dr.  Malone 
The  Guiding  Light 

2:00 

2:15 
2:30 
2:45 

Weekday 

News,  Sam  Hayes 
2:05  Letter  To  Lee 

Graham 
Bandstand,  U.S.A. 

Martin  Block 

Second  Mrs.  Burton 

Brighter  Day 
This  Is  Nora  Drake 
Aunt  Jenny 

3:00 

3:15 
3:30 
3:45 

Weekday 

Right  To  Happiness 

News 

3:05  Matinee  With 

Dan  McCullough 

Dick  &  Diane  Show 

Martin  Block  (con.) 

Linkletter's  House 
Party 

4:00 
4:15 
4:30 

4:45 

Young  Widder  Brown 
Doctor's  Wife 
Pepper  Young's 

Family 
Woman  in  My  House 

News 

4:05  Matinee  With 
Dick  Willard 

Broadway  Matinee 

Treasury  Band- 
stand 

5:00 
5:15 

5:30 
5:45 

World  Of  Nordine 
Norman  Vincent 

Peale 
Lone  Ranger 

5:55  Production  Five 

Bob  And  Ray 

5:50  Wismer,  Sports 
5:55  Cecil  Brown 

Musical  Express 

Gloria  Parker 
Vincent  Lopez 
5:55  Wall  Street  Final 

6:00 
6:30 
6:45 


7:00 
7:15 


7:30 
7:45 


8:00 
8:15 

8:30 
8:45 


9:00 

9:15 

9:30 
9:45 


10:00 
10:15 
10:30 


Monday 


Three  Star  Extra 


Alex  Dreier,  Man 
On  The  Go 


News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


Henry  Taylor 
Boston  Pops 


Telephone  Hour 


Contrasts  In  Music 


Pauline   Frederick 
10:05  Chet  Huntley 
Dance  Band 

Parade  Of  Bands 


Evening    Programs 

Local  Program 

Bill  Stern,  Sports 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 

America's  Business 
7:20  Dinner  Date 
7:25  Men  Of  Action 
Gabriel  Heatter 
Special  Edition 
7:50  Here's 
Hollywood 


True  Detective 
Mysteries 

John  Steele, 
Adventurer 


News.   Lyle   Van 
9:05  Bob  And  Ray 
Behind  The  Iron 

Curtain 
Reporters'  Roundup 


Virgil  Pinkley 

Soundstage 

Music 


Ed  Morgan,  News 
Quincy  Howe 


Mike  Malloy, 
Private  Eye 
7:55  News 


Variety  Time 

8:25  News 

Voice  Of  Firestone 


News 

9:05  Variety  Time 

9:25  News 
Best  Bands  In 

The  Land 
9:55   News 

Personality 


Music  To  Midnight 


Jackson  &  The  News 
Lowell  Thomas 


News  Analysis, 

LeSeuer 
7:05  Amos  V  Andy 


Bing  Crosby 
Edward  R.  Murrow 


Jack  Carson  Show 


Arthur  Godfrey's 
Talent  Scouts 


News.  Collinswood 
9:05  My  Son  Jeep 
Johnny  Dollar 

Capitol  Cloakroom 

9:55  News,  Trout 


The  World  Tonight 
10:05  Orchestra 


Tuesday 


Evening   Programs 


NBC 

MBS 

ABC 

CBS 

6:00 

Local    Program 

Jackson  &  The  News 

6:30 

Bill  Stern,  Sports 

6:45 

Three  Star  Extra 

Lowell  Thomas 

7:00 

Alex   Dreier, 

Fulton   Lewis,  Jr. 

Ed  Morgan,  News 

News  Analysis, 

7:15 

Man  On  The  Go 

America's  Business 
7:20  Dinner  Date 
7:25  Men  Of  Action 

Quincy  Howe 

LcScuer 
7:05  Amos  V  Andy 

7:30 

News  Of  The  World 

Gabriel  Heatter 

Sherlock  Holmes 

Bing  Crosby 

7:45 

One  Man's  Family 

Eddie  Fisher 
7:50  Here's 
Hollywood 

7:55  News 

Edward  R.  Murrow 

8:00 

Dragnet 

Treasury  Agent 

Variety  Time 

Jack  Carson  Show 

8:15 

8:25  News 

8:30 

X  Minus  One 

Squad  Room 

Variety  Time 

Suspense 

9:00 

News 

News.   Lyle  Van 

Variety  Time 

News    Herman 

9:05   Biographies 

9:05  Bob  And  Ray 

9:05  My  Son,  Jeep 

9:15 

In  Sound* 

Dateline  Defense 

9:25  News 

Johnny  Dollar 

9:30 

Army  Hour 

Best  Bands  Of 
The  Land 

Campaign  '56 

10:00 

Pauline  Frederick 
10:05  Chet  Huntley 

Virgil  Pinkley 

Music  To  Midnight 

The  World  Tonight 
10:05  Dance  Music 

10:15 

Dance  Band 

Soundstage 
10:05  Dance  Music 

10:30 

Ken  Nordine 

Dante  Music 

*  June 

12  &  26,  Political 

Campaign 

Wednesday 


6:00 
6:30 
6:45 


7:00 
7:15 


7:30 
7:45 


8:00 
8:15 
8:30 


9:00 

9:15 
9:30 
9:45 


10:00 


10:15 
10:30 


6:00 
6:3" 
6:45 


Three  Star  Extra 


Alex  Dreier, 
Man  On  The  Go 


News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


Truth  Or 

Consequences 
Air  Time  with 

Gisele  MacKenzie 


You  Bet  Your  Life 
— Groucho  Marx 

Duet  In  Rhythm 


Evening    Programs 

Local    Program 

Bill  Stern,  Sports 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
America's  Business 
7:20  Dinner  Date 
7:25  Men  Of  Action 
Gabriel    Heatter 
Special  Edition 
Here's  Hollywood 


Gang  Busters 

Crime  Files  of 
Flamond 


News,  Lyle  Van 
9:05  Bob  and  Ray 
Success  Story,  U.S.A. 
Family  Theater 


7:00 
7:15 

7:30 
7:45 


8:00 
8:15 
8:30 


9:00 

9:15 
9:30 
9:45 


10:00 
10:15 
10:30 


6:00 
6:30 
6:45 


Pauline  Frederick 
10:05  Chet  Huntley 
This  Is  Moscow 
Today  &  Tomorrow 


Thursday 


Three  Star  Extra 


Virgil  Pinkley 

Soundstage 
Sounding    Board 


Ed  Morgan  News 
Quincy  Howe 


Masters  Of  Mystery 
7:55  News 


Variety  Time 
8 25  News 
Variety  Time 


Variety  Time 

9:25  News 
Best  Bands 
Of  The  Land 


Music  To  Midnight 


Jackson  &  The  News 
Lowell  Thomas 


N°ws.  LeSeuer 
7:05  Amos  'n'  Andy 


Bing   Crosby 
Edward    R.   Murrow 


Jack  Carson  Show 

FBI  In  Peace  And 
War 


News.  Collingwood 
9:05  My  Son,  Jeep 
Johnny  Dollar 
Washington  &  The 
World 


Alex  Dreier, 
Man  On  The  Go 

News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


People  Are  Funny 
The  Goon  Show 


News 

9:05  American 

Adventure 
Conversation 


7:00 
7:15 


7:30 
7:45 


8:00 
8:15 
8:30 


9:00 
9:15 
9:30 


10:00 
10:15 
10:30 


Pauline  Frederick 
10:05  Chet  Huntley 
Carling  Conserva- 
tion Club 
Jane    Pickens   Show 


Friday 


Three  Star  Extra 


Evening    Programs 

Local  Program 

Bill  Stern,  Sports 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
America's  Business 
7:20  Dinner  Date 
Gabriel  Heatter 
Fddie  Fisher 
Here's  Hollywood 


Official  Detective 
Crime  Fighter 


News.  Lyle  Van 
9:05  Bob  And  Ray 
Book  Hunter 
State  Of  The  Nation 


Virgil  Pinkley 
Soundstage 
Music  For  You 


Ed  Morgan,  News 
Quincy  Howe 

Mystery  Classic 
7:55  News 


Variety  Time 
8:25  News 
Variety  Time 


Variety  Time 

9:25  News 
Best  Bands  Of 
The  Land 


Music  To  Midnight 


The  World  Tonight 
10:05  Music 


Jackson  &  The  News 
Lowell  Thomas 


News  Analysis, 

LeSeuer 
7:05  Amos  'n'  Andy 
Bing  Crosby 
Edward  R.  Murrow 


Jack  Carson  Show 
21st  Precinct 


News.  Herman 
9:05  My  Son,  Jeep 
Johnny  Dollar 
The  Leading 
Question 


Evening    Programs 


Alex  Dreier, 
Man  On  The  Go 


News  Of  The  World 
One    Man's    Family 


National    Radio    Fan 
Club 


NBC    Job    Clinic 
9:05  Radio  Fan  Club 
(con.) 


Cavalcade  Of  Sports 
10:25  Sports  Digest 


Local  Program 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
America's  Business 
7:20  Dinner  Date 
7:25  Men  Of  Action 
Gabriel  Heatter 
Special   Edition 
Here's  Hollywood 


Counter-Spy 
City  Editor 


News,  Lyle  Van 
9:05  Bob  and  Ray 
American  Travel 

Guide 
Double  Date 


Virgil   Pinkley 

Soundstage 

Music 


Bill  Stern,  Sports 


Ed  Morgan,  News 
Quincy  Howe 


Police  Blotter 
7:55  News 


Variety  Time 
8:25  News 
Variety  Time 


Variety  Time 

9:25  News 

Best  Bands  Of 
The  Land 


Music  To  Midnight 


The  World  Tonight 
10:05  Dance  Music 


Jackson  &  The  News 
Lowell  Thomas 


News  Analysis, 

LpSeuer 
7:05  Amos  'n'  Andy 

Bing  Crosby 
Edward    R.    Murrow 


Jack  Carson  Show 
CBS  Radio  Workshop 


News  Collingwood 
9:05  My  Son,  Jeep 
Johnny  Dollar 

So  They  Say 


The  World  Tonight 
10:05  Dance  Music 


nside  Radio 


Saturday 


NBC 


MBS 


Morning    Programs 


8:30 
8:45 


9:00 
9:15 
9:30 
9:45 


10:00 
10:15 
10:30 
10:45 


11:00 

11:15 
11:30 

11:45 


Monitor 


Monitor 


Monitor 


Local  Program 


ADC 


8:55  News 


CBS 


For  Parents  Only 
Good  News 


News 

11:05    Magic 
Music 


of 


Musical    Wheel 

Chance 
11:55  Les  Paul  & 

Mary  Ford 


Of 


No  School  Today 


No  School 

Today  (con.) 
It's  Time 
10:35  Moppets  & 

Melody 
10:55  News 


Afternoon    Programs 


12:00 

12:15 
'12:30 
12:45 


1:00 
1:15 

1:30 

1:45 


2:00 

2:15 
2:30 


3:00 
3:15 

3:30 


4:00 
4:15 

4:30 

4:45 


5:00 
!  5:15 

5:30 
5:45 


Bvi 


National  Farm  & 
Home   Hour 

Monitor 


Monitor 


Monitor 


Monitor 


Monitor 


Monitor 


Here's  Hollywood 
12:05  Teenagers,  USA 


Fifth   Army   Band 
1:25  Men's  Corner 


Lucky  Pierre 


Country  Jamboree 
Sport  Parade 


Standby  Sports,  with 
Harry  Wismer 


Standby  Sports  with 
Harry  Wismer 
(con.) 

5:55  Les  Paul  & 
Mary  Ford 


News 


Presenting  Con- 
stance Bennett 
It's  Time 

11:35  All  League 
Clubhouse 


Nbws 

12:05  World  Tourist 
101   Ranch  Boys 
American  Farmer 


News 


News  Of  America 
Farm  News 

Garden  Gate 


News,  Jackson 
10:05  Galen  Drake 
Show 


News,  Calmer 
11:05  Robert  Q. 
Lewis  Show 


News 

1:05  Navy  Hour 

It's  Time 
1 :35  Shake  The 
Maracas 


News 

2:05  Festival- 
Grand  Opera 
It's  Time 
2:35  Opera  (con.) 


News 

3:05  Festival- 
Light  Opera 
It's  Time 
3:35  Opera  (con.) 


News 

4:05  Festival 
Symphonic 


News,  Jackson 
12:05  Romance 

Gunsmoke 
12:55  Tremendous 
Trifles 


News,  Jackson 
1:05  City  Hospital 

Kathy  Godfrey 


News,  Townsend 
2:05   Adventures   in 
Science 


News,  Bancroft 
3:05  Richard  Hayes 

Show 
Treasury  Show 


News,  Cochran 
4:05  Treasury  Show 

(con.) 
Larry  Faith  Orch. 
Turf  Events* 


eniug    Programs 


6:00 
6:15 

6:30 
6:45 


7:00 
7:15 

7:30 


8:00 
8:15 
8:30 

8:45 


9:00 

9:15 
9:30 


10:00 
10:15 


Monitor 


Monitor 


Monitor 


Monitor 
Grand  Ole  Opry 


Monitor 


John  T.  Flynn 

The  Mariners' 
Album 

Report  From 

Washington 
Sports,  Neal 


Pop  The  Question 


True  or  False 
Quaker  City  Capers 


I  Ask  You 
Lombardoland,  U.S. A 


News 

5:05  Pop  Concert 

News 

5:35  Dinner  At  The 
Green  Room 


News 

6:05  Pan-American 
Union 

6:25  It's  Time 
Sports  Kaleidoscope 

Bob  Edge,  Sports 
Afield 


News 

7:05  At  Ease 
7:25  It's  Time 
Inspiration,  Please 


News 

8:05  Vincent  Lopez 
News 

8:35  Nat  Brand- 
wynne 


Renfro  Valley 
Barn  Dance 


News 

9:05  Rhythm  On 

Parade 
National  Juke  Box 


News 

10:05  Hotel  Edison 

Orch. 
News 
10:35  Lawrence  Welk 


News,  Cochran 
5:05  New  Orleans 
Jazz  Band  Ball 
Make  Way  for  Youth 
*6/16  Belmont 

Stakes; 
6/30  Carter 
Handicap. 


News,  Cioffi 
6:05  Music  At  The 
Chase 


Young  Ideas 


News,  LeSeuer 
7:05  Juke  Box  Jury 


News.  Jackson 
8:05  Country  Style 


8:55  Sports 


Rock  'n'  Roll 
Dance  Party 

Basin  Street  Jazz 


News 
Orchestra 


Sunday 


NBC 


Morning    Programs 


MBS 


ABC 


CBS 


8:30 

Monitor 

Light  &  Life  Hour 

Renfro  Valley 

8:45 

8:55  Galen  Drake 

9:00 

World  News  Roundup 

Wings  Of  Healing 

News 

World  News  Roundup 

9:15 

Monitor 

9:05GreatComposers 
It's  Time 

The  Music  Room 

9:30 

Back  To  God 

Voice  of  Prophecy 

Church    Of   The   Air 

9:45 

Art  Of  Living 

10:00 

National  Radio 

Radio  Bible  Class 

News 

News,  Trout 

10:15 

Pulpit 

10:05  Message  Of 
Israel 

10:05  E.  Power 

Biggs 
Invitation  To 

10:30 

Monitor 

Voice  Of  Prophecy 

News 

10:45 

10:35  College  Choir 

Learning 

11:00 

Monitor 

Frank  And  Ernest 

It's  Time 

11:05   Marines   On 

N°ws 

11:05  Washington 

11:15 

Christian  Science 
Monitor 

Review 

Week 

11:30 

11:35  New  World 

Northwestern 

News 

Salt  Lake  Tabernacle 

Reviewing  Stand 

11:35  Christian  In 

Choir 

11:45 

Action 

Afternoon    Programs 

12:00 

Monitor 

As  1  See  It 

Management  Show 

News.  Robert  Trout 
12:05  The  Fabulous 
Dorseys 

12:15 

As  We  See   It 

World  Affairs 

12:30 

The  Eternal  Light 

News,  Bill  Cunning- 
ham 

It's  Time 
12:35  Herald  Of 

Guy  Lombardo  Time 

12:45 

Christian  Science 

Truth 

1:00 

Monitor 

Les  Paul  &  Mary  Ford 
1:05  Front  Page 
Exclusive 

Or.  Wm.  Ward  Ayer 

Woolworth    Hour- 
Percy  Faith, 
Donald  Woods 

1:15 

Men's  Corner 

1:30 

Lutheran  Hour 

Lutheran   Hour 

News 

1:45 

1:35   Pilgrimage 

2:00 

Monitor 

Music   From   Britain 

Dr.  Oral  Roberts 

News 

2:15 

2:05  World  Music 

2:30 

The  Catholic  Hour 

Wings  Of  Healing 

Festivals* 

3:00 

Monitor 

Dr.  James  McGinlay 

Music  Festival  (con.) 

3:15 

3:25  It's  Time 

3:30 

Billy  Graham 

Music  On  A  Sunday 

3:45 

Afternoon 

4:00 

Monitor 

Old-Fashioned 

News 

4:15 

Revival  Hour 

4:05    Music   On  A 

4:30 

Wismer,   World   Of 

Sunday   Afternoon 

4:45 

Sports 
4:55  Here's 
Hollywood 

(con.) 

5:00 

Monitor 

Wismer,   World   of 

Freedom  Sings 

News 

5:05  World  Theater 

Sports  (con.) 

Concert 

5:05  Indictment 

5:15 

5:25  Van  Voorhis, 
News 

5:30 

Bosman's  Bandstand 

High  Moment 

Fort  Laramie 

5:45 

5:55  Tomorrow's 
World 

Evening    Programs 


6:00 

Meet  The  Press 

Walter  Winchell 

Monday  Morning 
Headlines 

News 

6:05  Gene  Autry 

6:15 

Tomorrow's 
Headlines 

Paul  Harvey,  News 

6:30 

Monitor 

On  The   Line,   Bob 
Considine 

It's  Time 

6:35  Evening  Comes 

Gunsmoke 

6:45 

Les  Paul  &  Mary  Ford 
6:50  Sports 

By  The  People 

7:00 

Monitor 

News 

News  Analysis 

7:05  Showtime 

7:05  Bergen- 

Revue 

McCarthy  Show 

7:15 

George  E.  Sokolsky 

7:30 

Pan-American 

It's  Time 

7:45 

Panorama 

Travel  Talk 

8:00 

Monitor 

Hawaii  Calls 

America's  Town 
Meeting 

News 

8:05  Our  Miss 

8:15 

Brooks 

8:30 

Bonsoir  Paris 

Two  For  The  Money 

9:00 

Monitor 

Wm.  Hillman,  News 

Overseas  Assignment 

News 

9:05   Music   Hall, 

9:15 

Dick  Joseph, 
World  Traveler 

Lifetime  Living 

Mitch  Miller 

9:30 

Manion  Forum 

It's  Time 

9:45 

Keep  Healthy 

9:35  Sammy  Kaye 

9:55    News 

9:55  Jim  McKay 

10:00 

Billy  Graham 

Wings  Of  Healing 

News,  E.  D.  Canham 

News 

10:15 

Richard   Hayes 
Sings 

10:05  Face  The  Na- 
tion 

10:30 

American  Forum 

Global    Frontiers 

Revival  Time 

Church  Of  The  Air 

See   Next  Page- 


77 


TV  program  highlights 

NEW  YORK  CITY  AND  SUBURBS  AND  NEW  HAVEN,  CHANNEL  8,  JUNE  4— JULY  4 


Baseball  on  TV 


D — Doubleheader 


R — Road  game 


78 


DATE 

TIME 

CH.                     GAME 

DATE 

TIME 

JUNE 

9:15 

4,  Mon. 

9:55 

9  Dodgers  vs.  Mil.— R 

21,  Thu. 

1:30 

5,  Tue. 

8:15 

11  K.C.  vs.  Yanks 

7:55 

6,  Wed. 

2:00 

11  K.C.  vs.  Yanks 

22,  Fri. 

7:55 

9:55 

9  Dodgers  vs.  Mil.— R 

8:00 

7,  Thu. 

2:00 

11  K.C.  vs.  Yanks 

23,  Sat. 

1:55 

8,  Fri. 

8:15 

11  Cleve.  vs.  Yanks 

2:00 

9,  Sat. 

2:00 

8, 11  Cleve.  vs.  Yanks 

2:25 

2:25 

2  Dodgers  vs.  Cine. 

24,  Sun. 

1:55 

10,  Sun. 

2:00 

8, 11  Cleve.  vs.  Yanks 

8:00 

11,  Mon. 

8:55 

9  Dodgers  vs.  St.  L. 

25,  Mon. 

7:55 

12,  Tue. 

8:15 

11  Chi.  vs.  Yanks 

26,  Tue. 

7:55 

13,  Wed. 

2:00 

11  Chi.  vs.  Yanks 

8:00 

14,  Thu. 

2:00 

11  Chi.  vs.  Yanks 

27,  Wed. 

1:25 

15,  Fri. 

7:55 

9  Mil.  vs.  Dodgers 

1:30 

8:00 

11  Cine.  vs.  Giants 

29,  Fri. 

7:55 

16,  Sat. 

1:55 

2,8,9  Mil.  vs.  Dodgers 

8:15 

2:00 

11  Cine.  vs.  Giants 

30,  Sat. 

1:55 

8:00 

11  Yanks  vs.  Cleve. — R 

2:00 

17,  Sun. 

1:55 

8, 9  Mil.  vs.  Dodgers 

JULY 

2:00 

11  Cine.  vs.  Giants 

1,  Sun. 

1:55 

19,  Tue. 

7:55 

9  St.  L.  vs.  Dodgers 

2:00 

8:00 

11  Chi.  vs.  Giants 

2,  Mon. 

7:55 

20,  Wed. 

1:25 

9  St.  L.  vs.  Dodgers 

3,  Tue. 

2:00 

1:30 

11  Chi.  vs.  Giants 

4,  Wed. 

1:30 

CH. 


GAME 


11  Yanks  vs.  Det.— R 

11  Chi.  vs.  Giants 
9  St.  L.  vs.  Dodgers 
9  Cine.  vs.  Dodgers 

11  Mil.  vs.  Giants 

8,  9  Cine.  vs.  Dodgers 

11  Mil.  vs.  Giants 

2  Yanks  vs.  Chi.— R 

8,9  Cine.  vs.  Dodgers — D 

11  Mil.  vs.  Giants 

9  Chi.  vs.  Dodgers 

9  Chi.  vs.  Dodgers 

11  St.  L.  vs.  Giants 

9  Chi.  vs.  Dodgers 

11  St.  L.  vs.  Giants 

9  Phila.  vs.  Dodgers 

11  Wash.  vs.  Yanks 

2, 9  Phila.  vs.  Dodgers 

8, 11  Wash.  vs.  Yanks 

9  Phila.vs.Dodgers — D 

8,11  Wash.  vs.  Yanks 

9  Giants  vs.  Dodgers 

11  Bait.  vs.  Yanks 

11  Dodgers  vs.  Giants — D 


Monday  through  Friday 


7:00  0  Good   Morning!— Will    Rogers,  Jr. 
©  Today — Yawn  away  with  Garroway 
8:00  0  Captain   Kangaroo— Fun  for  kids 
9:00  0  (00  at  11 )  My  Little  Margie— Comedy 
©  Herb  Sheldon  Show— &  Jo  McCarthy 
10:00  0  Garry  Moore  Show— Fun  for  all 

©  Ding  Dong  School— For  kids  3  to  5 
©  Tune  In  Any  Time  Theater— Feature 
film  repeated  at  noon  and  2  p.m. 
10:30  0  Godfrey  Time— Mon.-Thurs. 

©  Ernie  Kovacs— Featuring  Edie  Adams 
©  Claire  Mann  Show— Boudoir  chat 
11:00  ©  Home— Arlene    Francis   femcees 
12:00  0  Valiant   Lady— Flora   Campbell   stars 
12:15  0  H]  Love  Of  Life— Stars  Jean  McBride 
12:30  0  00  Search  For  Tomorrow— Serial 
©  Feather  Your  Nest— Bud  Collyer 
12:45  0  00  Guiding  Light— Daily  story 
1:00  0  Stand    Up    And    Be    Counted— Bob 
Russell 

©  One  For  Sheldon— Twinkle-eyed  Herb 
1:30  0  As  The  World  Turns— Drama 

©  Sky's  The  Limit— Jet-propelled  quiz 
2:00  0  Johnny  Carson  Show— Variety 
©  Richard  Willis— Make-up  advice 
2:30  0  00  Art  Linkletter's  House  Party 
©  Tennessee    Ernie— Delivers   laughs 
3:00  0  Big   Payoff— Randy  Merriman   quiz 
©  Matinee  Theater— Fine  teleplays 
0  00  Film  Festival— Excellent  movies 
O  Ted  Steele— Mr.  Sunshine 
3:30  0  Bob  Crosby  Show— Lively  &  liltin' 
4:00  0  Brighter  Day— Daily  serial 

©  Date  With  Life— Dramatic  stories 
4:15  0  Secret  Storm— Peter  Hobbs  stars 
4:30  0  Edge  Of   Night— Detective  dramas 

©  Queen  For  A  Day— Jack  Bailey 
5:00  ©  I  Married  Joan— Joan  Davis  comedy 
©  Virginia   Graham— For  women   only 
7:15  0  John  Daly— News 
7:30  ©  00  Songs— Gordon  MacRae,  M.;  Dinah 
Shore,  Tu.,  Th.;  Eddie  Fisher,  W.,  F. 

©  Million  Dollar  Movie— June  4-10, 
"Woman  in  the  Window,"  Edward  G.  Robin- 
son, Joan  Bennett;  June  11-17,  "Return  of 
the  Badmen,"  Randolph  Scott,  Anne  Jeffreys; 
June  18-24,  "Conflict  of  Wings,"  Kieron 
Moore;  June  25-July  1,  "They  Live  by  Night," 
Farley  Granger;  July  2-7,  "Lady  Luck" 


7:45  ©  John  Cameron  Swayze— News 
10:00  ©  Million  Dollar  Movie— See  7:30  p.m. 
11:15  0  The  Late  Show— Feature  films 
11:30  ©  Tonight— Usually  stars  Steve  Allen 


Monday  P.M. 


7:30  ©  Susie— Private  Secretary  re-runs 
8:00  ©  Burns  &  Allen— Re-runs  for  summer 
©  Caesar's     Hour— Except     June     25, 
"Happy  Birthday,"  on  Producers' Showcase 
©  Public  Defender— Reed  Hadley  stars 
8:30  ©  Godfrey's    Talent    Scouts— Variety 

0  00  Voice  Of  Firestone— Concerts 
9:00  0  [1]  I  Love  Lucy— Desi  has  a  Ball 
©  Medic— Engrossing   drama 
@  Boxing— 2  hrs.  from  St.  Nick's  arena 
©  Film    Fair— June    4,    "Rocking    Horse 
Winner,"  Valerie  Hobson;  June  11,  "Curtain 
Up,"  Robert  Morley;  June  18,  "Spider  &  the 
Fly,"    Eric    Portman;    June    25,    "Beware    of 
Pity,"  Lilli  Palmer,  Sir  Cedric  Hardwicke;  July 
2,  "Marry  Me,"  Susan  Shaw 
9:30  ©  Robert  Montgomery  Presents 
10:00  ©  FJ]  Westinghouse  Summer  Theater 
10:30  ©  Douglas   Fairbanks  Presents 


Tuesday 


7:00  ©  Gildersleeve— Willard   Waterman 
7:30  0  Name  That  Tune— Mu$ical  quiz 

©  Waterfront— Preston  Foster  as  Mike 
8:00  ©  Phil  Silvers  Show— Year's  funniest 

©  Chevy  Summer  Show— Variety 
9:00  ©  00  Danny  Thomas   Show— Dandy 
9:30  ©  Red  Skelton  Show— Comic  capers 

0  00  Cavalcade  Theater— Dramas 
10:00  ©  00  $64,000    Question— Marches  on 
10:30  0  Do  You  Trust  Your  Wife?— Bergen 

©  Big  Town— Mark  Stevens,  reporter 


Wednesday 


7:30  0  00  Disneyland— Fun  &  fantasy 
3:00  0  Godfrey  &  Friends— Wonderful  hour 
©  Man  Behind  The  Badge— Police  tales 
8:30  ©  00  Dunninger    Show— Mind-reading 
9:00  ©  Kraft  Theater— Fine,  hour  plays 
©  00  Masquerade   Party— Surprises 
©  The  Man  Called  X— Barry  Sullivan 
9:30  ©  I've  Got  A  Secret— Garry  Moore 


©  00  Break  The  Bank— Cash  quiz 
10:00  0  U.    S.    Steel    Hour— June   6,   James 
Joyce's  "Boarding   House" 

©  This  Is  Your  Life— Live  bios 
©  00  Boxing— Headline  events 
10:30  ©  Midwest  Hay  ride— Swing  yer  partner 


Thursday 


7:30  © 

8:00  0 

© 

© 

o 

8:30  © 

June 
© 

o 

9:00  © 

© 

9:30  © 

© 

10:00  0 

14,  1 

© 

10:30  © 


The  Goldbergs— Warmhearted  fun 
Bob  Cummings  Show— Forceful 
You  Bet  Your  Life— Groucho's  great 
Liberace— He  tickles  the  ivory 
Eddy  Arnold  Show— Western  vocals 
Climax — Suspense      dramas       except 
7,  Shower  Of  Stars,  music  &  comedy 
Dragnet— Jack  Webb's  police  stories 
00  Stop  The  Music— Bert  Parks 
People's  Choice— Cooper  comedy 
Professional  Wrestling— Melodrama 
Four  Star  Playhouse — Drama 
(QO  at  10)  Ford  Theater 
Arthur  Murray  Party— Except  June 
0-11,  The  Victor  Borge  Show 
Lux  Video  Theater— Hour  dramas 
Racket  Squad— Reed  Hadley  stars 


I 


Friday 


7:30  0  My  Friend  Flicka— Friendly  filly 
©  I  Spy— Raymond  Massey  thriller 

8:00  ©  Mama— Peggy  Wood  in  title  role 
©  Sherlock  Holmes— Master  detective 
©  00  Ozzie  &  Harriet— Always  a  joy 

8:30  ©  Our  Miss  Brooks— Eve  Ardently 
©  Life  Of  Riley— Bunglin'  Bill  Bendix 

9:00  ©  Big  Story— Real  stories  of  reporters 
0  Dollar  A  Second— Quiz  for  cash 
10:00  0  The  Line-Up— Warner  Anderson  stars 
©  Boxing— With  Jimmy,  the  Powerhouse 
10:30  ©  Person  To  Person— Visit  the  famed 


Saturday 


4:30  ©  Turf   Events— June    16,  The    Belmont 

Stakes;  June  30,  The  Carter  Handicap 
6:00  0  Telephone  Time— John  Nesbitt 
7:30  ©  The  Big  Surprise— Mike  Wallace 
8:00  ©  00  Honeymooners— Jackie    Gleason 
©  Perry  Como  Show— Hour-long  revue 
8:30  ©  00  Stage  Show— Dorseys  &  guests 
9:00  0  Two  For  The  Money— Sam  Levenson 
©  People  Are  Funny— Except  June  9, 
Max  Liebman  Presents  "Sweethearts" 
0  00  Lawrence  Welk— Bubbling 
10:00  0  Gunsmoke— Adult  Westerns 
©  George  Gobel— Gobs  of  fun 
0  00  Chance  Of  A  Lifetime— Variety 
10:30  0  Damon   Runyon  Theater— Stories 

©  Passport  to  Danger— Cesar  Romero 


Sunday 


7:00  ©  Lassie— Co-starring  Tommy  Rettig 
7:30  0  00  Private  Secretary— Ann  Sothern 
©  Frontier— Except    June    17,    Sunday 
Spectacular,  "Two  Weeks  With  Pay" 

0  Film  Festival— June  10,  "Island  Res- 
cue,"  David  Niven,  Glynis  Johns;  June  17, 
"Lavender  Hill  Mob,"  Alec  Guinness,  Stanley 
Holloway;  June  24,  "Woman  in  Question," 
Jean  Kent;  July  1,  "Importance  of  Being  Earn- 
est," Michael  Redgrave 
8:00  0  00  Ed  Sullivan  Show— Extravaganza 

©  Steve  Allen  Show— Variety 
9:00  ©  G-E  Theater— Fine  dramas 

©  TV  Playhouse— Hour  teleplays 
©  00  Original  Amateur  Hour 
10:00  ©  $64,000  Challenge— Sonny  Fox 
©  Loretta  Young  Show— Dramas 
10:30  ©  00  What's  My  Line?-Job  game 


What  More  Can  Any 
Man  Ask? 

(Continued  from  page  61) 
one  of  radio's  loveliest  and  best-known 
actresses,  Claire  Niesen,  who  plays  Mary- 
Noble  in  Backstage  Wife.  He  has  been  suc- 
cessful in  the  music  and  movie  business,  as 
well  as  radio  and  TV.  He  has  worked  in  al- 
most every  great  city  in  the  country  and 
has  lived  the  glitter  and  glamour  of  both 
New  York  and  Hollywood.  But  Mel  still 
thinks  that  children  are  the  greatest  thing 
that  can  happen  to  anyone. 

"Barbara's  in  the  public  eye,"  he  ob- 
serves, "and  I'm  proud  of  her  success  in 
'Carousel.'  I  visited  her  when  the  company 
was  on  location  at  Boothbay,  Maine,  and 
learned  how  affectionately  she  was  re- 
garded by  everyone.  Now  that's  something 
that  makes  a  father  especially  proud.  Or 
take  my  son  Bob,  with  his  special  talent 
for  evaluating  things  and  his  keen  moral 
sense.  These  characteristics  mean  more  to 
a  parent  than  war  medals." 

Good  looks  run  in  the  Ruick  family. 
Bob  and  Barbie  are  both  blond.  Barbie  is 
slender,  tall,  pretty  and  vivacious.  Mel 
himself  stands  an  inch  under  six  feet  tall, 
Bob  stands  an  inch  over.  Mel  has  brown 
hair  and  brown  eyes.  All  three  have  a 
family  resemblance,  particularly  around 
the  eyes. 

"My  children,"  says  Mel,  "are  involved 
in  the  same  things  that  have  always 
fascinated  me — flying,  music  and  acting. 
Maybe  it's  less  than  a  coincidence,  but, 
when  Bob  was  born,  I  was  flying  forest 
patrol  out  of  Medford,  Oregon.  And  when 
Barbie  was  born  I  was  parcelling  my  time 
between  being  an  actor  and  a  bandleader. 
Today,  Barbie  records  for  Columbia 
Records.  She  has  acted  in  many  TV  shows 
— Climax,  The  Lineup,  The  Loretta  Young 
Show.  She  has  even  played  as  a  comedy 
foil  for  Red  Skelton." 

She  has,  of  course,  scored  a  double  hit 
as  singer  and  actress  in  the  musical  film, 
"Carousel."  As  Mel  says,  "I  think  the 
movie  is  her  first  important  rung  up  the 
ladder,  and  I  wouldn't  have  missed  the 
Hollywood  premiere  for  anything.  The 
people  at  CBS  knocked  themselves  out  to 
pre-record  City  Hospital  so  that  I  could 
make  the  trip  to  the  Coast.  It  was  a  thrill 
taking  that  limousine  ride  with  Barbie 
to  Grauman's  Chinese.  I  wouldn't  have 
missed  that  if  it  had  meant  traveling  to 
Kyoto,  Japan.  I  felt  the  same  way  when 
Bob  won  his  wings  at  Luke  Field  in  Ari- 
zona. That  was  another  of  the  memorable 
moments  in  my  life." 

There  are  three  cities  which  Mel  has 
called  home.  Since  World  War  II,  he  has 
lived  in  New  York.  Prior  to  the  war,  his 
home  was  in  Hollywood.  And  he  was  born 
and  raised  in  Boise,  Idaho. 

Mel  had  two  brothers  and  a  sister.  His 
mother  died  when  he  was  seven,  and  a 
governess  took  over  until  his  father  mar- 
ried again — and  then  Mel  was  one  of  seven 
children. 

'Dad  was  a  prominent  attorney,"  he  re- 
calls, "but  his  first  love  was  music.  I 
remember  our  home  concerts  on  Sunday 
evenings— about  the  only  night  I  got  out 
of  helping  with  dishes,  because  I  played 
violin.  Well,  practically  the  whole  family 
,  played  some  instrument." 

Mel  was  seventeen  when  his  father 
died.  A  year  later,  after  graduating  from 
*  igh  school,  Mel  got  a  job  in  a  mine.  He 
vorked  there  for  more  than  a  year — until 
the  day  he  picked  up  a  magazine  with  a 
cover  picture  of  a  young  aviator:  "I  knew 
.that  I  wanted  to  fly.  But  I  also  knew  I 
should  have  more  education,  so  I  quit  my 
job  and  enrolled  at  the  University  of 
California.  But  then  war  broke  out,   and 


OPPORTUNITIES 

for  EVERYBODY 

Publisher's  Classified  Department  (Trademark) 


For  classified  advertising  rates,  write  to  William  R.  Stewart,  9  South  Clinton  Street,  Chicago  6  (Worn. -July}  6 

OF  INTEREST  TO  WOMEN 

MONEY   MAKING   OPPORTUNITIES 

$350  FOR  YOUR  Child's  Picture  (all  ages).  Thousands  Paid  by 
advertisers.  Send  one  small  picture.  Returned  with  judges' 
report.  Print  child's  parents'  name,  address  on  back.  Spotlite 
1611-P7  North  La  Brea,  Hollywood,  Calif. 
COMPLETE  YOUR  HIGH  School  at  home  in  spare  time 
with  59-year-old  school.  Texts  furnished.  No  classes.  Diploma. 
Information   booklet  free.   American  School,   Dept.  XB74, 
Drexel  at  58th,  Chicago  37,  Illinois. 

WE  NEED  REPRESENTATIVES  .  .  .  "$327.00  first  month," 
reports  W.  F.  G.,  Waco,  Texas.  Earn  $200.00  to  $400.00 
monthly  . . .  proven  plan  for  your  own  business  . . .  full  or  part 
time.  No  investment  ...  no  inventory  .  .  .  free  information 
without  obligation.  Write:   Dept.  S101,  Opportunities  Un- 
limited, 482  Main  Street,  Maiden,  Massachusetts. 
$5,199.90  WAS  PAID  to  John  Betts  in  few  weeks.  Grow 
Mushrooms.  Cellar,  shed.  Spare,  full  time,  year  round.  We 
pay  $3.50  lb.  Free  Book.  Mushrooms,  Dept.  164,  2954  Admiral 
Way,  Seattle,  Wash. 

STUFFING— MAILING  ENVELOPES.  Our  instructions  tell 
how.  Dept.  G-7,  Education  Publishers,  4043  St.  Clair,  Cleve- 
land 3  Ohio. 

GUARANTEED    HOMEWORK!    IMMEDIATE    Commis- 
sions!  Everything  Furnishedl   Hirsch,   1301-12  Hoe  Ave., 
New  York  City  59. 

HOME  MAILING  WORKI  No  Selling.  Good  Earnings.  Gen- 
merco,  Box  142-W,  Dorchester  24,  Massachusetts. 
EXTRA  MONEY  PREPARING  Mailing  Postcards,  Gul,  2419 
Thomas,  Chicago  22,  Illinois. 

$25  WEEKLY  POSSIBLE,  sparetime,  preparing  advertising 
mailings  at  home.  Temple  Co.,  Muncie  2,  Indiana. 
$35  WEEKLY  PREPARING  envelopes.  Instructions  $1.  Re- 
fundable. Adservice,  Spring  Valley  151,  New  York. 
LADIES:  PREPARE  MAIL  postcards,  easy,  profitable.  Alfred 
Haseman,  Beecher,   Illinois. 

OPERATE  RESTAURANT  OR  diner.  Free  booklet  reveals 
plan.  Write  Restaurant  Arts,  MO-57,  Fremont,  Ohio. 
MAKE  YOUR  TYPEWRITER  Earn   Money.  Send  $1.00. 
Hughes,  7004  Diversey,  Chicago  35. 

$350  FOR  YOUR  child's  photo,  all  ages,  if  used  for  advertising 
purposes.  Send  photo  for  approval.  Print  child's-mother's, 
name-address  on  back.  Returned  two  weeks.  Advertisers, 
6000- YT  Sunset,  Hollywood  28,  California. 
$100— $400  MONTHLY  Possible,  preparing  envelopes,  post- 
cards, from  mailing  lists  at  home.  Longhand,  typewriter. 
Detailed  Instructions  only  25c!  T.  Economy,  Rowley,  Mass. 
EARN  $40.  WEEKLY  Sewing  Babywearl  No  canvassingl 
Send  stamped,  addressed  envelope.  Babywear,  Warsaw  1, 
Indiana. 

ENVELOPE  PREPARING  FACTS— extra  income  opportuni- 
ties revealed  through  HM  service.  Free  details.  Maxwell, 
Dept.  2-6,  Wooster,  Ohio. 

MAKE  SPARE  TIME  money  preparing  and  mailing  sales 
literature.  Adams  Surveys,  3513C  Sunset  Blvd.,  Los  Angeles, 
26,  California. 

MAKE  MONEY  CLIPPING  Items  From  Your  Newspaperl 
Write,  Newscraft,  PW-983-E.  Main,  Columbus  5,  Ohio. 

SEW  OUR  READY  cut  aprons  at  home,  spare  time.  Easy, 
Profitable.  Hanky  Aprons,  Ft.  Smith  3,  Ark. 
BONAFIDE   HOMEWORK  OPPORTUNITY!  Guaranteed 
Pay!  No  Selling  I  Wallace,  Box  3-W,  Boston  22,  Massachusetts 

FEMALE   HELP  WANTED 

PERSONAL 

BEAUTY  DEMONSTRATORS— TO  $5  hour  demonstrating 

Famous  Hollywood  Cosmetics,  your  neighborhood.  For  free 

samples,  details,  write  Studio  Girl,  Glendale,  Calif.,  Dept. 

1667C. 

HOME  SEWERS  WANTED!  Earn  extra  cash  making  readi- 

cut  ties,  experience  unnecessary.  No  selling.  We  instruct. 

Jud-San,  518  E.  105,  Dept.  F-1,  Cleveland  8,  Ohio. 

BORROWING  BY  MAIL.  Loans  $100  to  $600  to  employed 
men  and  women.  Easy,  quick.  Completely  confidential.  No 
endorsers.  Repay  in  convenient  monthly  payments.  Details 
free  in  plain  envelope.  Give  occupation,  state  Finance  Co., 
323  Securities  Bldg.,  Dept.  W-69,  Omaha  2,  Nebraska. 
PHOTO  STAMPS  100  Only  $1.25.  Samples.  Gift  House, 
Box  464,  Great  Neck,  N.Y. 

HOME  WORKERS.  MAKE  hand-made  moccasins.  Good  pay. 

LOANS  BY  MAIL 

Experience  unnecessary.  California  Handicrafts,  Los  Angeles 
46,  California. 

HOME  SEWING.  READY-Cut  Rap-Around.  Profitable,  Easy. 
Free  Instructions.  Hollywood  Manufacturing,  Dept.  C,  Holly- 
wood 46,  California. 

BORROW  $50  TO  $500.  Employed  men  and  women  over  25, 
eligible.  Confidential — no  co-signers — no  inquiries  of  employ- 
ers or  friends.  Repay  in  monthly  payments  to  fit  your  income. 
Supervised  by  State  of  Nebraska.  Loan  application  sent  free 
in  plain  envelope.  Give  occupation.  American  Loan  Plan. 
City  National  Bldg.,  Dept.  WD-7,  Omaha,  Nebraska. 

HOME  SEWERS  WANTED 

$2.00  HOURLY  POSSIBLE  doing  light  assembly  work  at 
home.  Experience  unnecessary.  Crown  Industries,  7159-B 

Beverly  Blvd.,  Los  Angeles  36,  Calif. 

$5.00  DAILY,  MAKING  Scented  Orchids.  No  canvassing. 

Boycan  Industries,  Sharon  6,  Penn. 

FASCINATING  WORKATHOMEI  No  selling  I  We  pay  you  1 

Truart,  Box  710,  Pasadena,  Calif. 

SEW  APRONS.   NO   Charge  for  materials.  Write:  Adco, 
Bastrop.  Louisiana. 

SEW  BABY  SHOES  at  home.  No  canvassing.  $40.00  weekly 
possible.  Write:  Tiny-Tot,  Galliopolis  19,  Ohio. 

EDUCATIONAL  OPPORTUNITIES 

HOMEWORKERS  WANTED  PAINTING  novelties.  Good 
earnings.  N.  Roland,  R.D.  #1,  Vincentown,  N.J. 

HIGH  SCHOOL  DIPLOMA  at  home.  Licensed  teachers. 
Approved  materials.  Southern  States  Academy,  Box  144W 
Station  E,  Atlanta,  Georgia. 

MALE  &  FEMALE  HELP  WANTED 

$30.00  WEEKLY  MAKING  Roses.  Look,  Smell  real.  Studio 
Company,  Greenville  12,  Pa. 

DO-IT-YOURSELF 

EARN  EXTRA  MONEY  selling  Advertising  Book  Matches. 
Free  sample  kit  furnished.  Matchcorp,  Dept.  WP-27,  Chicago 
32,  Illinois. 

AGENTS  WANTED 

LEARN  ART  METALCRAFT  and  jewelry  making.  Complete, 
inexpensive,  home  training  course  now  available.  Special  tools 
and  materials  furnished.  Write  for  free  booklet.  Interstate 
Training  Service,  Dept.  L-72,  Portland  13,  Oregon. 

NURSING  SCHOOLS 

60%  PROFIT  COSMETICS.  $25  Day  Up.  Hire  others.  Sam- 
ples, details.  Studio  Girl  Hollywood,  Glendale,  Calif.,  Dept. 
1667H. 

BUSINESS  OPPORTUNITIES 

GIRLS— WOMEN.    PRACTICAL    Nurses    needed.    Learn 
profitable  career  at  home  easily.  Many  earn  while  learning. 
High   School    not   required.   Free   booklet.  Wayne  School, 

2525  Sheffield,  Dept.  AW-22,  Chicago  14. 

EARN  AT  HOME  everything  furnished.  Details  Free.  Crea- 

FOREIGN   &    U.S.A.    JOB    LISTING 

tion's  Box  386,  Austin,  Texas. 

SPARE  TIME  OPPORTUNITIES 

HIGH  PAYING  JOBS.  All  types.  Foreign,  U.S.  Chance  to 
travel.  Fare  paid.  Application  forms.  For  information  Write 
Section  95B,  National,  1020  Broad,  Newark,  N.J. 

PROFITS!  RAISE  NUTRIA  beavers.  Herb  Miller,  513  Kent 
Lubbock,  Texas. 

ANY  PHOTO  ENLARGED 


Size  8  x  lO  Inches 

on  DOUBLE-WEIGHT  Paper 

Same  price  for  full  length  or  bust 
form,  groups,  landscapes,  pet  ani- 
mals, etc.,  or  enlargements  of  any 
part  of  a  group  picture.  Original  is 
returned  with  your  enlargement. 


67 


Send  No  Money  3  for  $] 50 

Just  mail  photo,  negative  or  snap- 
shot (any  size)  and  receive  your  enlargement, 
guaranteed  fadeless, on  beautiful  double-weight 
portrait  quality  paper.  Pay  postman  67c  plus 
postage— or  send  69c  with  order  and  we  pay  post- 
age. Take  advantage  of  this  amazing  offer.  Sendyour  photos  today. 

Professional  Art  Studios,  544  S.  Main,  Dept.  36-  H.   Princeton,  Illinois 


MAKE   $S0-$60   A   WEEK 

You  can  learn  practical  nursing  at  home 
in  spare  time.  Course  endorsed  by  phy- 
sicians. Thousands  of  graduates.   57th 
yr.  One  graduate  has  charge  of  10-bed 
hospital.    Another    saved    $400    while 
learning.    Equipment    included.    Men. 
women    18    to    60.     High     school    not 
required.  Easy  tuition  payments.  Trial  plan.  Write  today. 
CHICAGO    SCHOOL    OF    NURSING 
Dept.  27,  25  East  Jackson  Blvd..  Chicago  4,   III. 
Please  send  free  booklet  and  16  sample  lesson  pages. 

Name 

Citu 


State- 


.Age- 


New  Way  to  Remove  Dandruff 

New  concentrated  DANDRICIDE  RINSE  releases  anti-dandruff 
action  no  ordinary  tonic  or  shampoo  can  duplicate 


WHY  HAVE  DANDRUFF?  Tonight,  you  can 
have  a  cleaner  scalp,  healthier  looking  hair, 
gleaming  with  a  soft  clean   sheen! 

With  new  Dandricide,  loose  itchy  dandruff  is 
removed  instantly  with  a  unique  anti-dandruff, 
scalp   conditioning   rinse    action ! 

Old  fashioned  dandruff  "tonics"  or  shampoos 
may  merely  dissolve  dandruff  scales,  only  to  have 
them  return  in  a  few  days.  New  Dandricide  rinses 
loose  dandruff  OUT  . . .  really  cleans  the  scalp 
.  .  .  fights  the  fast  return  of  unsightly,  itchy  dan- 
druff as  no  tonic  or   shampoo  can! 


Concentrated  to  last  longer!  Easy  to  use! 
Because  it's  concentrated,  you  get  12  Dandricide 
rinses  in  a  $1.00  bottle.  Just  mix  with  water  as 
directed,  rinse  and  that's  all!  Get  Dandricide  at 
drug  and  department  stores,  beauty  and  barber 
shops. 


79 


they  began  to  train  flying  personnel  on 
the  campus.  That  was  too  much  for  me, 
and  I  joined  up  as  an  aviation  cadet." 

He  didn't  go  back  to  school  after  the 
Armistice.  Instead  he  flew  forest  patrol 
for  a  little  over  a  year.  But,  as  he  says, 
"Flying  was  considered  rather  risky  in 
those  days,  and  it  seemed  to  me  that,  for 
the  sake  of  my  first-born,  I'd  better  settle' 
down." 

He  tried  a  number  of  jpbs  without  any 
specific  aim.  His  brother,  who  is  a  com- 
poser and  pianist,  suggested  that  Mel 
take  up  the  violin  again.  Mel  did — and  it 
was  the  violin  which  led  him  indirectly 
into  a  radio  career.  For  two  years,  he 
fiddled  in  a  pit  orchestra,  and  then  he  was 
lifted  out  of  his  seat  and  handed  a  baton. 
He  became  a  traveling  bandleader  and, 
with  a  large  troupe,  played  the  biggest 
theaters  in  major  cities  of  the  country. 
When  his  contract  expired,  a  friend  talked 
him  into  joining  a  stock  company. 

For  quite  a  few  years,  he  alternated 
between  music  and  stock.  In  1932,  when 
Barbara  was  born,  the  musical  comedy 
"Sally"  was  on  a  twenty-seven-week  tour, 
and  Mel  was  the  musical  director.  Barbie 
was  born  on  December  23rd,  in  Pasadena. 

"I  was  in  Minnesota  a  couple  of  weeks 
before  Christmas,"  he  remembers,  "and 
sent  my  gifts  home  from  there.  Along 
with  the  presents,  I  concocted  a  birth  an- 
nouncement. It  was  kind  of  a  prediction — 
for  I  said  it  would  be  a  girl  baby  with 
brown  eyes,  and  its  name  would  be 
Barbara  Joan.  The  Joan  is  for  Joan  Craw- 
ford, .  a  good  friend  of  Barbie's  mother, 
Lurene  Tuttle,  the  well-known  radio  and 
screen   actress." 

During  the  Depression,  Mel  formed  a 
dance  band.  He  was  playing  at  the  Ren- 
dezvous Room  in  the  Biltmore  Hotel,  at 
Los  Angeles,  when  he  was  offered  an  an- 
nouncing job.  It  happened  because  his  band 
broadcast  over  Station  KMTR— and  Mel 
announced  his  own  numbers.  The  station 
manager  heard  him,  and  offered  him  the 
job.  After  six  months,  Mel  gave  up  the 
band  business  forever.  That  was  in  1935. 
He  continued  acting,  however,  and  a  year 
later,  while  performing  with  Charlotte 
Greenwood,  Mel  was  signed  as  announcer 
for  the  famous  Lux  Radio  Theater. 

"Barbie  practically  grew  up  on  the  Lux 
show,"  he  recalls.  "From  the  time  she 
was  four  until  she  was  ten,  Barbie  came 
down  to  the  studio  almost  every  Sunday 
afternoon.  Cecil  DeMille  was  producing, 
and  many  of  our  leading  actors  were  on 


the  show.  Barbie's  legs  dangled  .from 
the  seat,  she  was  that  young,  but  she 
soaked  it  all  in.  She  was  ambitious  for 
the  theater,  even  as  a  tot.  In  grade 
school,  she  was  always  begging  the 
teacher  to  let  her  put  on  shows.  Taking 
Barbie  to  the  studio  wasn't  unusual,"  he 
notes,  "considering  our  relationship.  She 
was  like  my  shadow,  and  I  loved  her  and 
wanted  her  with  me.  She  was  always  a 
lady  and  behaved  like  one." 

Son  Bob  had  practically  no  interest  in 
acting.  He  loved  airplanes.  He  drew 
pictures  of  them.  He  built  model  planes, 
and  Mel  shared  his  enthusiasm  with  him. 

When  at  home,  Mel  took  Bob  fishing  in 
fresh-water.  But,  when  he  took  Bob 
deep-sea  fishing,  it  was  a  sad  experience: 
"The  boy  got  so  sick,  and  there  we  were 
twenty  miles  from  shore.  He  was  begging, 
'Daddy,  please,  let's  go  back,'  and  I 
couldn't  do  a  thing.  There  were  a  dozen 
others,  strangers,  who  wanted  to  fish  and, 
anyway,  the  boat  didn't  belong  to  me.  But, 
you  know — a  few  weeks  later,  I  told  Bob 
that  I  was  going  deep-sea  fishing  and  he 
said  that  he  wanted  to  go  again!  I  said, 
'Are  you  sure?'  And  he  insisted.  So  he 
went  a  second  time.  And  he  got  sick 
again." 

Mel  grins.  "You  know,  I  think  my  kids 
can  'take  it.'  They  make  their  own  de- 
cisions and  take  the  consequences.  When 
Barbie  was  in  a  private  school  she  was 
caught  by  a  'no  smoking'  rule.  Well, 
Barbie  didn't  smoke,  anyway.  But  she  was 
talking  with  girls  who  were  smoking  when 
they  heard  the  teacher  coming.  They 
got  rid  of  the  cigarettes  but  not  the  smoke, 
and  so  were  caught.  Barbie  refused  to 
tell  on  the  girls  or  separate  herself  from 
the  group.  She  took  the  punishment  with 
the  others.  That's  not  the  part  that  in- 
terested me  the  most — you  know,  she  was 
never  vindictive  toward  the  teacher,  either." 

Mel,  of  course,  can  take  it,  too.  He 
proved  that  in  the  early  years  of  his 
career  but,  from  the  time  he  signed  on 
with  Lux,  his  success  in  radio  was  fairly 
constant.  Among  many  other  shows,  he 
played  the  male  lead  opposite  Irene  Rich 
in  the  Dear  John  series  and  was  featured 
in  Edward  G.  Robinson's  Big  Town.  With 
his  dollars,  he  built  Barbie  what  amounted 
to  her  own  private  country  club. 

"We  called  it  'the  house  that  radio 
'jack'  built.' "  he  says.  "We  put  in  a 
pool  for  Barbie's  sake  and  there  was  a 
playhouse.  No  pony,  but  Barbie  and  I 
did  a  lot  of  riding  together  in  those  days. 


Drifting  Apart . . . 

Another  marriage  might  have  been  wrecked  if 
it  hadn't  been  for  radio's  "My  True  Story."  For  this 
is  the  program  that  shows  you  how  real-life  people 
have  averted  tragedy  in  their  own  lives.  When  you 
tune  in  to  these  stories — which  are  right  from  the 
files  of  "True  Story  Magazine" — you  may  easily 
recognize  your  friends  .  .  .  your  neighbors  .  .  .  even 
your  own  loved  ones.    So  be  sure  to  listen. 

TUNE  IN 

"MY  TRUE  STORY" 

American  Broadcasting  Stations 

Don't    miss    this    double    length    prize    story — Read    "You're    In- 
human" in  July  TRUE  STORY  magazine — at  newsstands  now! 


80 


Those  are  the  things  a  father  remembers, 
too:  A  child's  first  pony  ride,  the  first 
dunking,  the  first  spanking." 

When  World  War  II  broke  out,  Barbie 
was  only  nine,  but  Bob  was  in  San 
Mateo  Junior  College.  "It  didn't  seem 
that  he  had  any  strong  ambitions,"  says 
Mel.  "I  remember  the  two  of  us  out  on  the 
lawn,  rooting  up  dandelions,  and  he  was 
picking  about  one  to  my  twenty.  He  was 
daydreaming,  off  on  Cloud  Nine,  and  I 
was  thinking  just  as  much  about  his 
future.  He  had  natural  skills.  He  was  a 
good  athlete  and  a  marksman.  As  a  child, 
he'd  pick  up  a  bow  and  arrow  and  hit 
the  balloon.  We'd  go  into  an  amusement 
park  and  he'd  win  me  cigarettes  with  his 
shooting.  Anyway,  when  the  state  of 
emergency  came  up,  I  thought  of  flying 
and  it  reminded  me  that  this  was  what 
Bob  really  wanted  too.  I  encouraged  him 
to  enlist  in  the  Air  Force  as  a  cadet." 

Bob  went  in  March  of  1941.  Mel  was 
still  on  Lux  and  he  had  made  two  movies, 
"Reap  the  Wild  Wind,"  and  "Buccaneers." 
But,  in  1942,  he  gave  up  what  was  the 
start  of  a  movie  career  and  broke  his  Lux 
contract  to  go  into  the  service.  Because 
of  his  World  War  I  experience,  Mel  went 
in  as  a  captain  with  the  Air  Force  Radio 
Production  Unit.  Bob  flew  a  B-25  with  the 
Tenth  Air  Force  in  India.  He  won  the 
Air  Medal  and  the  Distinguished  Flying 
Cross. 

"When  Bob  came  back  to  the  States," 
says  Mel,  "he  wasn't  engaged  or  close  to 
any  girl,  so  we  made  dates  for  his  first 
week  home.  Dates  on  five  consecutive 
nights  with  five  of  the  most  beautiful 
ingenues  in  Hollwood.  And  he  kept  the 
dates,  but  he  was  completely  unim- 
pressed," Mell  recalls.  "Then  a  couple  of 
years  later,  on  a  Sunday  morning  in 
Orlando,  Florida,  he  was  coming  out  of 
church  and  a  girl  on  the  church  steps 
waved  at  him.  He  stopped,  and  she  im- 
mediately apologized.  Alice  Johnston — 
that  was  her  maiden  name — said,  'I 
thought  you  were  someone  else.'  For  Bob, 
it  was  love  at  first  sight,  so  he  said,  'Won't 
I  do?'  And  that  was  it.  Today,  he  and 
Alice  have  three  little   girls." 

Bob  has  made  the  Air  Force  his  career. 
Today,  he  is  stationed  at  Wright-Patterson 
Field  in  Dayton,  Ohio.  It  isn't  quite  next 
door  to  New  York,  but  he  sees  his 
father  frequently.  Barbie  works  out  of 
Hollywood,  but  gets  to  Manhattan  often 
on  business  and  recording  trips.  And, 
when  she  is  in  town,  she  stays  with  Mel 
and  Claire.  The  New  York  Ruicks  live  in 
Forest  Hills,  about  forty-five  minutes  out 
of    Manhattan. 

"Claire  and  I  chose  to  move  out  of  Man- 
hattan when  we  were  married,"  Mel  says. 
"We  like  grass  and  trees.  If  it  didn't 
mean  a  lot  of  commuting,  we  would  like 
to  be  in  the  country." 

Mel  and  Claire  Niesen  were  married  on 
March  11,  1949.  They  had  met  at  the  home 
of  a  mutual  friend.  Five  hours  from  the 
moment  they  were  introduced,  Mel  pro- 
posed. A  month  later,  they  were  married. 

They  now  have  a  three-and-a-half-room 
apartment,  but  the  living  room  is  large 
and  includes  a  sofa  bed  where  Barbie 
sleeps  when  she  visits.  The  apartment  is 
furnished  for  comfort,  since  the  Ruicks 
spend  about  six  nights  out  of  seven  there. 
Mel  is  a  man  who  enjoys  a  home  and  does 
his  share  to  keep  it  up.  Claire  can  count 
on  him  to  wash  and  hang  curtains,  polish 
furniture,  and  even  take  on  the  vile  job 
of  cleaning  grease  out  of  the  stove.  \ 
("That's  much  too  dirty  a  job  for  a 
woman,"  he  says.)  He  is  very  neat. 

Mel  still  plays  the  violin  for  his  own 
amusement.  His  chief  hobby  for  many 
years  has  been  photography,  and  he  has 
taken  movies  that  thrill  their  friends. 
When   Mel    takes    a    vacation,    alternating 


between  New  England  and  California,  he 
comes  back  with  a  professional  travelogue. 

"Our  friends  plead  to  see  them,"  Claire 
says.  "We  love  to  entertain,  but  never  do 
as  much  as  we  would  like." 

"Claire  loves  to  do  for  people,"  Mel 
smiles.  "She's  a  wonderful  cook  and  en- 
joys domestic  things.  I  believe  that's 
because  she  enjoys  the  complete  change 
from  her  workaday  world.  After  all,  she's 
been  working  since  she  was  fifteen." 

At  fifteen,  Claire  had  her  first  job  on 
a  small  radio  station.  At  sixteen,  out  of 
high  school,  she  was  performing  in  works 
of  Shakespeare  and  Ibsen.  She  went  into 
TV  and  from  that  into  two  Broadway 
shows.  And  she  had  barely  reached  voting 
age.  She  has  played  Mary  Noble  in  Back- 
stage Wife  for  ten  years. 

Mel  has  done  a  lot  of  television  recently. 
He  has  been  on  the  Kraft,  U.  S.  Steel 
and  Philco  tele-theaters.  Frequently  he  is 
cast  as  a  suave,  dignified  character.  But, 
on  The  Web,  he  was  a  gangster.  He  par- 
ticularly likes  his  role  as  Dr.  Barton 
Crane  of  City  '  Hospital,  and  remarks: 
'Some  of  my  neighbors  greet  me,  'Hiya, 
Doc'  Thank  goodness,  no  one  has  brought 
a  case  to  me.  But  I'm  really  fond  of  the 
part,  for  it  is  neither  clinical  nor  Polly- 
annaish.  The  stress  is  on  human  values." 

Friends  of  Mel  tell  you  that  in  some 
ways  he  is  like  Dr.  Barton  Crane.  Mel 
is  deep -thinking,  witty  and  intelligent. 
He  is  good  for  a  talk  when  you're  trying 
to  think  something  out.  John  Moore,  an 
actor  friend,  says.  "Mel  is  good  company 
for  an  eighty-eight-year-old  grandmother 
or  a  fourteen-year-old  boy — and  those  in 
between.  He  has  tea  with  my  mother  and 
tells  her  that  in  two  years,  when  she 
reaches  ninety,  he  will  take  her  for  a  ride 
in  a  new  Jaguar.  And  my  son  Peter  looks 
forward  to  Mel's  visits  so  that  he  can  talk 
about  his  future."  At  parties,  Mel  is  the 
spark.  It  was  his  son  Bob  who  said,  after 
spending  an  evening  with  him,  "It's  hard 
for  me  to  believe  that  he's  my  father." 

But  Mel  is  very  much  a  father  to  his 
children  and,  in  some  ways,  to  many  of 
his  friends— for  Mel  is  loyal,  dependable 
and  generous.  He  is  the  kind  who  gives 
without  thought  of  the  return.  Barbara 
may  be  separated  by  a  continent's  distance 
but  continues  to  say,  "Daddy's  my  tower 
of  strength,  my  Rock  of  Gibraltar." 

When  she  and  Mel  are  together,  they 
have  their  fun  and  laughs,  but  they  spend 
long  hours  in  serious  talk,  too.  Some- 
times she  takes  his  advice,  other  times 
she  says,  "Daddy,  I  think  there  are  some 
things  we  just  have  to  learn  -from  ex- 
perience, no  matter  how  much  it  hurts." 

Barbie  and  Claire  are  very  good  friends. 
Claire  has  expressed  this  affection  by 
embroidering  a  skirt  for  Barbara— it  was 
the  first  embroidery  she  had  ever  done. 
And  she  looks  forward  to  the  conversa- 
tions with  Bob,  too,  when  he  visits. 

"Let  me  tell  you  something  about 
Claire,"  Mel  says.  "She  is  more  than  a 
beautiful  woman  to  look  upon.  She  is  a 
woman  who  finds  beauty  in  others  and  in 
nature.  She  has  a  great  capacity  for  af- 
fection." As  he  says,  "If  a  man  has  the 
respect  and  affection  of  his  wife  and 
children,  what  more  can  he  ask  of  life?" 


! 


Don't  miss  the   cover  picture 
and   sparkling   story   of 

Alice  Lon  and  Lawrence  Welk 

in  the  August 

TV  RADIO  MIRROR 

on  sale  July  5 


Dollars  Can't  Buy 
a  Finer  Deodorant! 


.?\*N 


#<** 


cP 


c* 


.w 


**>* 


M 


?^SV"        ^  .  no  «# 


no 


*atfe 


&'«*"** 


never 


sVicty 


wjrf       grease\ess. 

°olu,  HARMLESS  ,o  «.  o,  c1o*es 

FRAGRANT  and  luxurious  as  a  lipstick 

SURE  PROTECT/ON, 

5fi^  las 


'  big 


a"  d°Y  long 
for 


Iander 

^^CHLOROPHYLL 

STICK  DEODORANT 


A t  all  5  &  10  cent  stores 


Show  New  ToocA  G/otv  TALL 

71    CHRISTMAS  CARDS 


'62' 


'IS  YOURS  OH  ONLY  50  BOXtS 


Sensational  sellers!  See  their  brilliance, 
feel  their  plush  I   SI  .25  profit  per  box. 

Newest  TALL  Christmas  cards, etc. ,  21  & 
24  for  $1.  dp.  SO  for  $1.50  with  Name  iD  Col- 
or. Gilts  galore!  Bio:  line  pays  you  up  to  60c  per 
SI .  pins  Bonuses  of  noma  appliances  worth  {10 
to  $100!  Assortments  on  approval.  Album  of  Im- 
prints FREE,  tl.26  Gift  FREE  if  yoo  act  fast. 
CREATIVE  CARD  COMPANY.  4401  Csrmak  Road,  Oml.  190-0 


ACT  FAST 
Sllllrrtpil 


CIHcatoJ3.il!. 


SHORTHAND 

Famous  SPEEDWRITING  shorthand.  120 
words  per  minute.  No  symbols;  no  ma- 
chines. Uses  ABC's.  Easiest  to  learn,  write, 
transcribe.  Lowest  cost.  350,000  taught  by 
mail.  Typing  available.  33rd  Year.  Write 
for  FREE  booklet  to: 

*-*  * 


Dept.   307-6  ® 

55  W.   42  St..   N.  Y.   36 


Life  is  thrilling 

when  you're  a  Rl  UNUt 

Be  a  fascinating  golden-top — today! 


MARCHAND'S  GOLDEN  HAIR  WASH 


FIND  OUT  what  fun  it  is  to 
be  a  beautiful  blonde.  No 
matter  what  your  hair  color 
now  —  blonde  that's  turned 
mousey  brown,  brunette,  red- 
head —  with  Marchand's 
Golden  Hair  Wash  you  can 
add  a  glow  of  sunshine  or 
lighten  honey  bright.  Golden 
Hair  Wash  is  the  tried-and- 
true  home  hair  lightener  pre- 
ferred for  over  50  years.  Not 
a  dye.  Nothing  extra  to  buy. 
Fine  for  lightening  arm  and 
leg  hair,  too. 


At  drugstores 
everywhere 
75c  and  $1.00, 
plus  tax 


81 


82 


(Continued  from  page  33) 
imitates  Rusty  as  extensively  as  possible. 
When  Rusty  is  going  through  a  cowboy 
phase,    Tony    sleeps    with    his    own    six- 
guns. 

And  so  .  .  .  Master  Tony,  not  to  be  out- 
done in  the  comedy  department,  deposited 
his  father's  favorite  house  slippers  in  the 
Thomas  family  garbage-disposal,  turned 
the  "on"  bar  and  ran  like  a  rabbit  when 
blades  began  to  fly  and  the  sink  threatened 
to  crash  through  the  walls. 

When  Danny,  exhausted  from  simulated 
emergencies  on  the  TV  set,  came  home  to 
be  confronted  by  news  of  his  own  son's 
authentic  escapades,  he  fixed  the  young 
man  with  a  dark  glance  and  inquired — as 
fathers  have,  since  time  began — "But 
why?" 

"Well  .  .  .  Rusty  did  it." 

"Tony!  You  know  he  didn't — not  really. 
You  know  it's  all  in  the  script.  You've 
been  on  the  set  with  me.  You've  watched 
the  special  effects  man.  You're  no  dope 
about  television.     Then  why?" 

"I  thought  it  was  funny  when  Rusty  did 
it,"  insisted  Tony,  in  his  smallest  voice. 

"Wait  until  your  mother  hears  this," 
moaned  Danny.  "It  isn't  enough  that  she 
has  one  comedian  in  the  family.  Just 
when  she's  reconciled  to  me — you'll  be 
coming  along." 

Tony  brightened  considerably.  "She 
doesn't  need  to  worry  about  that,"  he 
asserted  staunchly.  "I  know  what  I'm 
going  to  be:  A  cowboy,  a  fireman,  a  po- 
liceman and  a  priest." 

"Just  be  sure  you  live  in  a  house  with 
plenty  of  closets,"  cautioned  Danny  with 
a  perfectly  straight  face.  "Your  uniforms 
are  going  to  take  up  a  lot  of  space." 

The  next  day,  Danny  had  a  talk  with  his 
writers.  "From  now  on — at  least  for  a 
while — could  Rusty  go  through  a  placid 
phase?  One  in  which  he  makes  his  bed, 
shines  his  shoes,  and  works  on  his  stamp 
collection?     On  second  thought,  kill  that 

stamp  suggestion Tony's  sisters  are  now 

getting  private  mail  and  there's  no  sense 
in  contributing  to  the  junior  war  between 
the  sexes." 

For  Danny  Thomas — dynamic  Danny 
whose  idea  of  an  ordinary  day  consists  of 
chaos,  now  and  then  relieved  by  pande- 
monium— to  ask  for  a  placid  phase,  in  any 
situation,  is  roughly  equivalent  to  a  chan- 
nel swimmer's  asking  for  water  wings. 

On  Monday,  the  "Daddy"  stock  com- 
pany, plus  all  visiting  talent,  gets  to- 
gether to  personalize  the  script  prepared 
by  the  show's  writers. 

In  operation,  the  session  closely  parallels 
football  scrimmage.  The  action  planned 
for  the  ensuing  Thursday  is  tried  for  size, 
speed,  and  impact,  with  the  result  that  a 
player  who  specializes  in  long  end -runs 
is  not  stuck  with  the  water  boy's  job. 
Naturally,  this  skull  practice  takes  all  day. 

On  Tuesday,  the  players  finish  memo- 
rizing their  lines,  and  run  through  the 
show  in  total.  At  noon  that  day,  Danny 
usually  has  luncheon  with  a  newspaper 
representative  or  a  writer  in  order  to 
supply  copy  for  a  Danny  Thomas  yarn. 
He  has  the  reputation  of  being  one  of 
the  best  interviews  in  the  business  be- 
cause he  is  cordial,  aware  of  the  respon- 
sibilities of  people  in  contiguous  fields, 
and  naturally  gregarious — Danny  Thomas 
loves  people  and,  in  preference  to  being 
alone,  he  would  chat  with  a  Zulu  in  sign 
language  and  come  up  with  (1)  an  idea 
for  the  next  "Daddy"  show,  and  (2)  a 
well -organized  drive  for  improving  the 
lot  of  Zulus  everywhere. 

On  Wednesday,  the  cast  works  with  the 
technicians   who  man   the   three   cameras 


Daddy  Can  Do  Anything! 

used  to  photograph  the  show.  Positions 
are  blocked  out  and  problems  of  move- 
ment and  timing  are  anticipated  and  re- 
solved. The  cast  completes  the  job  of 
memorizing  its  lines  and  bits  of  business. 

Thursday  is  D.  T.  Day,  which  means 
"Danny  Thomas  Day,"  no  matter  what  this 
recital  might  have  suggested  to  your  reel- 
ing mind.  From  noon  until  one  o'clock, 
the  cast  reviews  the  film  of  the  previous 
week's  show  in  order  to  saturate  them- 
selves in  the  atmosphere  of  the  story.  At 
one  o'clock,  the  male  members  of  the  cast 
have  haircuts,  and  the  distaff  department 
has  its  collective  shampoo-wave. 

In  the  afternoon,  as  tension  mounts,  a 
rehearsal  is  held  to  make  certain  that  the 
last  of  the  bugs  forever  lurking  in  all 
show-business  undertakings  have  been 
exterminated.  Reactions  grow  speedier, 
eyes  begin  to  sparkle,  the  excitement  of 
kick-off  takes  possession  of  the  players. 

At  five  P.M.,  the  cast  has  dinner  and, 
immediately  afterward,  Danny  rehearses 
the  musical  numbers  with  the  orchestra. 
Next  he  shaves  and  is  made-up,  and,  at 
7:30,  he  is  presented  to  the  studio  audi- 
ence of  three  hundred  eager  clients.  These 
lucky  people  sit  in  on  a  TV  filming,  in 
addition  to  being  treated  to  a  thirty-minute 
night-club  act  which  would  cost  them 
about  fifteen  dollars  each  (with  a  modest 
dinner  thrown  in)  at  any  big-time  spot 
in  Las  Vegas — where  Danny  usually  ap- 
pears for  an  engagement  each  August. 

Just  before  eight,  Danny  introduces  the 
cast.  And,  at  eight,  the  new  chapter  of 
"Make  Room  for  Daddy"  is  recorded  on 
celluloid. 

Afterward,  Danny  and  most  of  the  cast, 
plus  producer  Lou  Edelman  and  director 
Sheldon  Leonard,  go  somewhere  for 
dinner — during  which  a  rousing  re-hash 
is  combined  with  the  steak. 

He  is  not  a  happy  man,  at  such  times. 
He  dreams  up  a  better  way  in  which  he 
might  have  delivered  that  last  line.  He 
worries  about  some  of  the  camera  moves. 
He  is  convinced  that  the  tempo  of  the 
opening  was  vaguely  wrong.  .  .  .  Even- 
tually, preoccupied  and  grumpy,  Danny 
goes  home  to  Rosemarie. 

rv  osemarie  is  a  wise  woman,  and  she 
has  been  Mrs.  Danny  Thomas  long  enough 
to  know  that  she  couldn't  dig  Danny  out 
of  his  post-program  depression  with  a 
bulldozer,  so  she  doesn't  try.  She  listens 
sympathetically  and  she  brews  a  pot  of 
coffee.  Sometimes  she  points  out  the  com- 
forting fact  that  the  show  filmed  on 
Thursday  night  will  not  be  seen  on  TV 
until  Tuesday  night  a  week  or  so  later, 
and  that  another  show  can  be  filmed  if  a 
showup  on  "the  monster"  justifies  Danny's 
conviction  of  doom. 

Friday  morning,  Danny  awakens  with 
nothing  but  lark  blood  in  his  veins.  He 
has  recovered  from  the  stupendous  out- 
pouring of  energy  given  the  Thursday 
show,  and  he  has  begun  to  feel  that  he 
may  not  have  profaned  the  inventive 
genius  of  Thomas  A.  Edison,  after  all.  He 
hurries  to  the  Motion  Picture  Center, 
and — along  with  key  personnel  of  the 
"Daddy"  show — watches  the  film  on  what 
is  aptly  named  "the  monster." 

Enormously  cheered,  Danny  usually 
leaves  this  session  with  a  light  heart  and 
a  hearty  appetite.  He  is  in  fine  condition 
to  accept  the  new  script  tendered  each 
Friday  by  his  writers — and  to  start  the 
cavalcade  over  again. 

Immediately  after  Friday,  it  is  custo- 
mary for  the  calendar  to  slip  into  each 
week  a  pair  of  days  to  be  used  by  the 
average  human  being  for  the  purpose  of 
recharging  his  over-taxed  batteries. 


Danny  Thomas  can't  be  regarded  as  the 
average  human  being.  His  only  predic- 
table weekend  activity  is  attendance  at 
Mass  on  Sunday  morning,  wherever  he 
may  be  .  .  .  and,  for  a  precise  description 
of  "wherever  he  may  be,"  consult  an  atlas. 
To  Danny  Thomas  the  word  "benefit"  is 
like  the  crack  of  a  starting  gun  in  the  ears 
of  a  sprinter:     He  leaps  into  action. 

Danny's  neighbors  (all  good  friends,  as 
everyone  knowing  Danny  would  expect) 
have  become  conditioned  to  his  unpre- 
dictable travels  and  his  active  driveway 
when  he  is  at  home.  But  even  they  be- 
came concerned  over  the  uproar  caused 
during  Christmas  Week,  1955,  when  the 
Thomas  family  were  visited  by  CBS -TV's 
peering  reporter  for  Person  To  Person. 

To  backtrack  a  bit,  by  way  of  explana- 
tion: Late  in  the  fall  of  1955,  seven-year- 
old  Tony  had  been  desperately  ill.  Tony's 
trouble  had  started  as  a  simple  cold  but 
had  multiplied  itself  into  a  virus  infection 
which  settled  in  his  bronchial  passages. 
At  three-thirty  one  frantic  morning, 
Tony's  parents  realized  that  something 
drastic  would  have  to  be  done  or  Tony 
might  strangle.  A  doctor  was  summoned 
on  an  emergency  basis,  and  he  in  turn 
dispatched  oxygen  equipment.  A  tra- 
cheotomy had  to  be  performed,  but  Tony 
responded  with  all  the  power  of  an  ex- 
cellent constitution  and  was  soon  up  and 
around,  and  doing  his  best  to  avoid  prob- 
lems  with   garbage-disposals. 

.Niaturally,  the  neighbors  heard  about 
the  emergency  and  said,  "Anytime  any- 
thing happens — call  us.  We'll  come  in 
robes  and  slippers  and  do  what  we  can 
to  help." 

So  there  came  the  day  when  CBS  moved 
in  with  cameras,  lights,  overhead  mikes, 
underfoot  mikes,  body  mikes  (both  Danny 
and  Tony  were  wired  for  sound  so  that 
they  could  move  around  the  house  with- 
out regard  to  the  stationary  equipment), 
an  army  of  carpenters,  canvas  placers  (to 
save  the  carpeting),  electricians,  camera- 
men, sound  experts,  advertising  represen- 
tatives, press  representatives,  and  nine 
policemen  to  maintain  traffic  control 
(both  pedestrian  and  vehicular). 

The  telephone  began  to  ring.  The  first 
caller  was  a  kindly  neighbor  who  in- 
quired somewhat  breathlessly,  "Is  every- 
thing all  right  over  there?"  During  the 
ensuing  two  or  three  hours,  a  member  of 
Danny's  staff  had  to  be  posted  at  the 
telephone   to   reassure   helpful   friends. 

A  further  enlivening  moment  took  place 
when  Danny,  having  forgotten  that  he  and 
his  son  were  plugged  into  the  speaker 
system,  took  Tony  upstairs  for  a  last- 
minute  briefing  session.  Tony  had  shed 
one  of  his  upper  front  teeth,  and  had  been 
taking  delight  in  folding  his  tongue  in  the 
aperture  while  parting  his  lips  in  a  Hal- 
loween-pumpkin grin.  It  was  a  stunt  to 
be  envied  by  a  small  boy's  peers,  but 
Danny  didn't  care  to  have  the  talent  dem- 
onstrated on  TV.  Also,  Tony  was  not  to 
run  his  hands  through  his  hair;  he  was 
not  to  stare  into  the  cameras;  he  was  not 
to  speak  out  of  turn;  he  was  not  to  sink 
his  hands  into  his  pockets,  nor  to  cast 
himself  into  a  chair  as  if  he  were  hurl- 
ing a  javelin. 

"Well,  gosh,  what  good  is  it  for  a  guy 
to  be  on  television,  anyhow?"  he  asked. 

This  sage  crack,  duly  broadcast  over  the 
speaker  system,  brightened  the  day  for 
technicians  sore  beset  by  the  problems 
of  transmitting  a  picture  plus  appropriate 
sound  to  a  waiting  nation. 

When  Danny  isn't  working  on  his  own 
show  or  appearing  for  the  benefit  of  some 
worthy  organization,  he  keeps  busy  ana- 


1 


r 


lyzing  such  cryptic  queries  as  that  voiced 
by  Theresa,  over  breakfast  one  morning. 
"Guess  what  I  did  for  you  yesterday, 
Daddy!" 

"So  I'm  to  guess  what  you  did  for  me 
yesterday?"  reiterated  Danny.  "I'm  sure 
it's  something  nice,  but  how  much  is  it 
going  to  cost  me?" 

"Now,  Daddy!  I  made  arrangements  for 
you  to  appear  at  Assembly  in  school.  They 
needed  somebody  to  give  a  little  show, 
and  I  knew  you'd  want  to  do  it." 

Danny  rolled  his  chocolate  eyes  to  the 
sky  in  a  martyr's  patient  pantomime  be- 
fore he  dropped  the  act  and  grinned  at  his 
thirteen-year-old  daughter.  No  matter 
how  overwhelmed  Danny  may  be  by  his 
professional  responsibilities,  he  accords 
a  Number  One  priority  to  his  family's 
needs.  "I'm  always  glad  to  lend  a  hand 
to  worthy  causes  by  working  a  benefit, 
so  what  kind  of  a  parent  would  I  be  if  my 
own  kids  couldn't  call  on  me  when  there's 
a  need?"  he  wants  to  know  rhetorically. 
Of  course  there  are  times  when  .  .  .  well, 
to  illustrate:  Danny  answered  the  tele- 
phone one  morning  to  be  informed  by  an 
efficient  young  female  voice  that  Mr. 
Thomas  should  report  at  the  Los  Angeles 
Coliseum  (which  seats  somewhat  more 
than  one  hundred  thousand  people)  at 
such-and-such  an  hour  on  such-and-such 
a  day.  Mr.  Thomas  would  be  seated,  he 
was  told,  on  the  dais  along  with  Dr.  Fred 
Fagg,  President  of  the  University  of 
Southern  California,  Dr.  Frank  Baxter, 
one  of  the  University's  most  distinguished 
faculty  members,  and  Governor  and  Mrs. 
Goodwin  J.  Knight.  Danny  Thomas,  he 
discovered,  was  to  introduce  Governor 
Knight  to  the  assembled  multitude. 
Swallowing  hard,  Danny  asked  if  the 
aller  was  certain  she  had  dialed  the  right 
Mr.  Thomas. 

"Oh,    yes.     Your    daughter,     Margaret, 
volunteered  you  for  this  job  and  gave  us 
our    telephone    number,"    was    the    swift 
esponse. 

Margaret,  now  eighteen,  is  a  student  at 
the  University  of  Southern  California  and 
a  member  of  Kappa  Alpha  Theta. 

Some    shifting    of   schedules    and    rear- 
ranging   of    commitments    was    necessary 
so  that  Danny  could  clear  the  time,  a  fact 
that  he  mentioned  to  his  eldest  upon  their 
eeting  that  night  at  dinner. 
She   looked   at  him   with   shining   eyes, 
in    which    mischief    and    affection    were 
blended,   and   observed,   "I   was  sure   you 
could  manage  it,  Daddy.     Now  .  .  .  what 
suit  are  you  going  to  wear?" 
Another  project  dear  to  Danny's  heart — 
s  practically  everyone  knows — is  the  St. 
Jude  Hospital  to  be  built  in  Memphis.    At 
resent  the  building  fund  is  still  around 
250,000    short    of    its    one-and-a-quarter 
illion-dollar  goal.  Because  Danny  wants 
he  hospital  to  be  "of  the  people,  by  the 
eople,  and   for  the  people,"  he  hopes  to 
ollect  the  final  funds  in  one-dollar  bills 
rom  kindly  folk  scattered  here  and  there 
"  roughout  the  U.S.  He   says  with   fierce 
ride,  "I'm  a  beggar  for  St.  Jude,  and  I'm 
>roud  of  it.    Naturally,  the  reason  I  would 
ather  receive   one-dollar  gifts   from   two 
undred    and    fifty    thousand    individuals, 
n  preference  to  accepting  that  sum  from 
>ne  donor,  is  that  the  more  people  there 
re  who  learn  about  St.  Jude,  the  happier 
'11  be.    And  the  happier  they'll  be,  too." 

This    plan    is    going    to    take    time,    but 
hen — what's  time  to  Danny?     His  friends 
elieve  that  he  owns  an  "hour  stretcher" 
nd    that,    even    though    someone    should 
vent  a  twenty-eight-hour   (if  you'll  ex- 
use   the   expression)    day,   Danny    would 
till  be   able  to  pack   about  thirty  hours' 
orth  of  activity  into  the  time.     In  addi- 
tion to  everything  else,  Danny  will  always 
be  able  to  "Make  Room  for  Daddy"  .  .  . 
but  sometimes  it  will  be  on  Panic  Street. 


Odorless  cream 
removes  dark  facial  hair 
safely... in  minutes! 


Before  Imra:  Hair  coarse, 
stubbly,    protruding. 


Stops  fast  bristly  regrowth. 

The  new  Imra  Rinse  Away 
Method  gently  dissolves  hair 
below  the  surface  of  the  skin. 
You  just  rinse  excess  hair 
off,  and  there's  no  fast, 
bristly  regrowth! 

Specialist  reveals  clinical 
results.  A  well-known  skin 
specialist  reports  "Imra  re- 
moves the  dark  facial  hair 
that  embarrasses  so  many 
women-quickly,  safely,  ef- 
fectively. This  is  a  real  boon 
to  women  who  want  an  in- 
expensive, easy-to-use,  safe 
hair  removing  method." 

Removes  underarm  hair 
without  shaving.  Many 
women  have  discovered  that 


Imra  removes  underarm 
hair  without  the  nicks,  cuts 
and  scratches  razors  so 
often  leave.  You  just  smooth 
on  and  rinse  off.  Under- 
arm skin  is  left  lovely,  femi- 
nine, soft. 

Wonderful  for  legs  and 
arms,  too!  Now  you  can  get 
rid  of  the  dark  masculine 
look  of  excess  hair  wherever 
it  may  be ...  on  your  legs, 
or  arms,  on  delicate  under- 
arms or  your  face! 

There  is  no  safer   hair  re- 
mover known  to  medical 
science.  Now 

available  at  all 
drug  counters. 


After  Imra:  Protruding 
hair  end  now  removed, 
rounded  ...  no  coarse 
bristly   look!. 


Special  Offer:  Get  beautiful  $5  value 

DuBarry  Fifth  Avenue  Pearls.  Send  an 

Imra  boxtop  (75  (  or  $1.25  size)  plus  $1  to  Imra,  Dept.  C,  312  Fifth  Ave.,  New  York.N.  Y. 


Only 


75 


Y 


plus  tax 


Be  Your  Own  MUSIC  Teacher 

LEARN  AT  HOME  THIS  MONEY  SAVING  WAY 

Simple  as  A-B-C.  Your  lessons  consist  of  real  selections 
instead  of  tiresome  exercises.  You  read  real  notes— no 
"numbers'*  or  trick  music.  Some  of  our  900,000  students 
are  band  LEADERS.  Everything  is  in  print  and  pictures. 
First  you  are  told  what  to  do.  Then  a  picture  shows  you 
how.  Soon  you  are  playing  the  music  you 
like.  Write  for  big  36-page  illustrated 
Free  Book.  Mention  your  favorite  instru- 
ment. U.  S.  School  of  Music,  Studio 
207,    Port  Washington,    N.  Y. 


FREE 
BOOKLET 


On  Just  AO  EXCLUSIVE 

CHRISTMAS  CARD 

Assortments  / 


Amazing 

BONUS  OFFER 
Luxurious 

FUR  STOLE 

Yours  for  Selling 
Only  50  Boxes! 


Yes,  you  make  $1.25  cash 
on  every  SUPER-36  DE- 
LUXE Assortment.  Easy 
to  sell  50  boxes  and  get  a  mag- 
nificent brown-dyed  genuine 
Marmot  Fur  Stole  on  oar  BO- 
NUS offer.  Have  extra  cash 
from  the  big  profits  on  rest  of 
huge  line!  Newest,  popular 
SLIM  Cards  and  other  fast- 
Belling  Assortments.  Gifts  and  Novelties.  Albure 
of  Personalized  Christmas  Cards  and  Stationery. 
BARGAIN  SPECIALS  PAY  EXTRA  BIG! 
While  they  last,  get  factory  surplus  $1 .26  boxes  for 
60c  and  SI  boxes  for  36c,  others.  No  experience 
Deeded.  Send  no  money.  Get  new  boxes  on  ap- 
prove I :  List  of  Bargains,  FurOffer,  Color  Cat- 
alog &  Imprints  Album  FREE.  Send  coupon. 

. MAIL  NOW  FOR  SAMPLES!-*^ 

!     MIDWEST  CARD  CO.,  Dept.  518-P 
|     1113  Washington  Ave.,  St.  Louis  1,  Mo. 


|    Name 

I    Full  Address.. 


,»*"V^1 


.»"/>• — — 

HOttYWOOD 


ENLARGEMENT 

Get  a  Beautiful  5  x  7" 


Enlargement  of  Your  Favorite  Snapshot, 
.........  Photo  or  Negative  Absolutely  FREE! 

■*  Just  to  get  acquainted,  we  will  make  you  a  beautiful 
5x7  black  and  white  enlargement  of  any  snapshot, 
photo  or  negative.  Also  be  sure  to  include  color  of 
hair,  eyes  and  clothing,  and  get  our  Air  Mail  Bargain 
Offer  for  having  your  enlargement  beautifully  hand- 
colored  in  oil  and  mounted  in  a  handsome  frame. 
Limit  2  to  a  customer.  Please  enclose  lOtf  to  cover  cost 
of  handling  and  mailing  each  enlargement.  Original 
returned.  We  will  pay  up  to  $100.00  for  children's  or 
adults  pictures  used  in  our  advertising.  Act  NOW! 
Offer  limited  to  U.S.A.  only. 

HOLLYWOOD    FILM    STUDIOS,    Dept.  f-250 
7021     Santa    Monica    Blvd.,     Hollywood     38,    Calif. 


83 


(Continued  from  page  44) 
or  with  the  aid  of  some  type  of  machinery, 
such  as  a  guitar. 

One  of  the  "musical  factories"  Joan  no- 
ticed with  intense  approval  was  a  young 
California  native  (born  in  Long  Beach, 
where  people  are  seldom  born — they  just 
growed  there  after  having  been  trans- 
planted from  elsewhere) .  The  name  of  this 
native  was  William  Strange,  and  he  played 
beautiful  earloads  of  guitar.  As  a  matter 
of  fact,  Bill  Strange  was  so  obsessed  by 
music  that  he  had  played  many  accom- 
paniments for  Joan's  vocals  before  he  be- 
gan to  notice  that  this  nice  little  kid  sort 
of  loitered  in  his  general  vicinity  when  he 
was  strumming  a  solo  passage. 

Some  of  the  other  members  of  the  band 
kidded  Bill  about  his  junior  fan.  "Go  on, 
Pop,"  they  told  him,  disregarding  Bill's 
own  under-voting-age  status,  "buy  the 
child  a  Coke  during  rehearsal  break.  Give 
her  a  chance  to  live  a  little."  Bill  had  often 
heard  that  many  a  wise  word  is  st>oken 
in  jest,  so  he  asked  Joan  if  she'd  like  a 
soda  at  the  corner  eatery  and  she  said  she 
would.  And  maybe  a  hamburger.  Mr. 
Strange,  seated  on  the  counter  stool  next 
to  the  infant  with  the  eyes  as  blue  as 
marbles  and  the  doll-skin  complexion,  felt 
properly  patriarchal  and  protective. 

Then  the  doll  began  to  talk.  She  was,  she 
said,  carrying  a  full  load  of  high  school 
subjects;  she  was  auditioning  at  every  op- 
portunity because  she  wanted  to  win  a  spot 
on  a  national  show;  she  lived  with  her 
parents  in  Pasadena  and  was  responsible 
for  her  share  of  the  housekeeping;  she  read 
one  daily  newspaper  ("and  not  just  the 
comics  and  the  amusement  section")  and 
one  trade  paper  every  day;  she  read  a 
work  of  fiction  every  two  weeks;  and  she 
made  some  of  her  own  clothes. 

Bill  Strange  collected  his  lower  jaw  and 
concluded  with  great  originality  that  looks 
could  be  deceptive.  The  porcelain  doll  was 
a  power  plant.  She  didn't  giggle  or  squirm; 
she  neither  fussed  nor  flirted;  her  chief 
characteristic  was  a  contemplative  poise 
masking  a  keen  intellect  and  an  irresistible 
ambition. 

She  was  also  an  attentive  listener.  She 
gave  her  full  attention  to  what  Bill  had  to 
say  about  the  dangers  lurking  to  catch 
the  unwary  teenager  in  the  jungle  of  the 
amusement  business,  and  the  wisdom  of 
rejecting  Coke  invitations  tendered  by 
miscellaneous  musicians.  There  were  ex- 
ceptions, of  course,  and  Bill  tried  to  de- 
scribe   the    type    to    be    trusted — mostly 


Show  Business  Baby 

guitar  players.  Joan  said  she  would  be 
careful,  and  yes,  she  would  have  a  Coke 
with  Bill  during  the  next  rehearsal  break. 

They  were  married  on  July  18,  1954,  in 
Pasadena's  Chapel  of  Roses,  and  set  about 
keeping  house  in  an  apartment  in  Holly- 
wood. Joan  didn't  know  how  to  drive 
(still  doesn't),  so  Bill  felt  they  had  to  live 
at  a  convenient  location  in  case  he  had 
to  make  several  trips  a  day  to  fulfill  both 
his  commitments  and  Joan's. 

Bill  and  Joan  were  given  the  usual 
amount  of  early -married  advice  by  well- 
wishers.  By  that  time,  Bill  was  a  regular 
on  the  Tennessee  Ernie  Ford  and  Curt 
Massey  shows,  and  Joan  was  a  member  of 
the  Bob  Crosby  troupe.  Together,  they 
represented  the  nucleus  of  a  show-business 
family,  so  it  was  natural  for  everyone  in 
broadcasting  to  regard  the  Stranges  as 
"our   newlyweds." 

One  morning,  Bill  and  Joan  were  smil- 
ing into  one  another's  eyes  and  saying, 
"We  won't  tell  anyone  for  a  long  time" 
.  .  .  and  the  next  morning,  Bill  was  being 
slapped  on  an  astounded  shoulder  by  a 
fellow  musician,  and  hearing  him  say, 
"That's  great  news — about  young  Bill's 
being  scheduled  for  fall  production,  I 
mean." 

"We  aren't  going  to  call  him  Bill  even 
if  he  is  a  boy,  which  he  might  not  be," 
said  the  newly-expectant  father,  "and  any- 
how— what  makes  you  think  we're  going 
to  be  needing  names?" 

The  answer  was  a  hearty,  "Are  you 
kidding?  Everybody  knows." 

The  only  sensible  thing  to  do  was  to 
decide  upon  a  name,  so  as  to  avoid  that 
last-minute  panic  over  a  telephone  book. 
A  girl's  name  was  easy  to  select,  simple 
to  agree  upon:  She  would  be  named  Sheri 
Lynne.  But  a  boy's  name?  Not  Jack — as 
Sam  Goldwyn  once  said,  "Every  Tom, 
Dick  and  Harry  is  named  Jack." 

Bill  came  home  one  night  with  a  sheep- 
ish grin  wrinkling  his  features  and  a 
small  parcel  wrinkling  his  coat  pocket. 
The  parcel  contained  a  shoebox,  and  the 
shoebox  contained  a  pair  of  felt  cowboy 
boots,  size  zero.  .  .  .  "We  might  call  him 
Tex,"  said  Joan.  .  .  .  "Tennessee  would  be 
hurt,"  Bill  protested.  "No,  we'll  have  to 
stay  away  from  state  names." 

A  few  weeks  later,  Bill  brought  home 
another  package,  this  time  a  pair  of  levis 
about  the  right  size  for  a  midget's  younger 
brother,  and  stowed  them  in  the  drawer 
set  aside  for  the  infant's  wardrobe. 

"Cody    is    a    nice    name — in    honor    of 


$1,000.00  REWARD 


84 


...  is  offered  for  information  leading 
to  the  arrest  of  dangerous  "wanted" 
criminals.  Hear  details  about  the 
$  1 ,000.00  reward  on  .  .  . 

TRUE  DETECTIVE  MYSTERIES 

Every    Monday    Evening    on    MUTUAL    Stations 


Read  "I  Had  To  Kill" — the  startling  confession  of  a  brutal 
murderer — in  July  TRUE  DETECTIVE  magazine,  at  newsstands 
now. 


Buffalo  Bill,"  ventured  Joan.  "Cody 
Strange.  That  doesn't  sound  bad." 

"On  report  cards  it  would  read  Strange, 
Cody,"  objected  the  other  half  of  the 
naming  team.  "First  thing  you  know,  he'd 
be  in   some   secret  agent  mystery  show." 

Meanwhile,  the  individual  who  was 
causing  all  this  brain-busting  was  busy 
making  a  monkey  of  the  doctor's  time- 
table. A  complacent  infant,  he  was  in  no 
hurry  to  be  born.  An  extra  week  went  by. 
Two  weeks.  Three  weeks. 

A  condition  of  mild  pandemonium  took 
charge  of  the  Strange  household.  Bill  had 
to  live  beside  a  telephone.  Joan's  mother 
stood  by  as  a  transportation-line  backer, 
just  in  case  Bill  was  in  the  midst  of  a  show 
when  the  stork  decided  to  go  into  his  act. 
Someone  at  the  radio  station  warned  Bill, 
"You'd  better  name  that  baby  or  he'll 
never  make  his  bow." 

Thus  pressed,  Bill  and  Joan  agreed  that 
Russell  Glenn  was  satisfactorily  virile,  and 
that  "Rusty"  represented  a  useful  nick- 
name— he  could  star  in  Westerns,  or  he 
could  take  over  the  creaking  door  on  a 
mystery  show. 

During  all  this  furor,  Tennessee  Ernie 
said  nothing  at  all.  He  merely  wore  the 
pained  look  of  a  man  listening  to  the  chat- 
ter of  a  taxicab  meter  while  waiting  for 
Marilyn  Monroe  to  finish  dressing  for  a 
formal  dinner.  (Ed.  note:  Local  joke — MM 
is  always  late.) 

You  see,  Tennessee  Ernie  had  made  ar- 
rangements with  the  telephone  company  to 
set  up  a  three-way  conference  call  during 
which  it  would  be  possible  for  Bill  to  talk 
to  Joan  in  the  hospital  after  the  advent 
of  the  youngster.  Tennessee  Ernie  radio 
fans  were  to  be  accorded  the  privilege  of 
hearing  one  of  the  first  unrehearsed  con- 
versations to  take  place  between  a  pair 
of  joyous  young  parents,  very  much  in 
love.  Ernie  had  been  paying  line  charges 
ever   since   the   prophesied   date   of   birth. 

As  the  bird  with  the  long  beak  would 
have  it,  Joan  went  into  the  hospital  short- 
ly before  dinnertime  on  October  3  (with- 
out rush,  fuss  or  drama)  and  Master 
Russell  ("Rusty")  Glenn  Strange  came 
angrily  into  the  world  at  1:11  on  the 
morning  breeze  of  October  4,  1955.  He 
weighed  eight  pounds,  one  and  one-half 
ounces,  he  measured  twenty-three  inches 
tall,  and  he  had  to  have  a  manicure  at 
once  to  avoid  scratching  himself.  He 
could  have  used  a  haircut,  but  that  was 
postponed  until  his  parents  could  decide 
upon   a   style. 

Joan  had  exacted  a  promise  from  the 
doctor  that  he  wouldn't  inform  Bill  of  the 
baby's  sex;  that  he  would  let  Joan  tell 
the  news. 

Bill  was  standing  in  the  corridor  as 
Joan  was  wheeled  toward  the  elevator 
bound  for  her  room.  She  was  drowsy,  but 
clear-headed.  Something  about  her  hus- 
band's face,  glazed  as  it  was  with  love  and 
happiness,  gave  Joan  the  impression  that 
Bill  must  know  about  Rusty.  "They  prom- 
ised they  wouldn't  tell,"  she  wailed. 

"I  don't  know,"  Bill  insisted.  "Really  I 
-don't.  Honest!  They  just  said  you  were 
fine  and  the  baby  was  fine  .  .  .  well,  what 
is  he?" 

Joan  was  satisfied  .  .  .  until  she  thought 
it  over  very  carefully  later.  "We've  got 
ourselves  a  son,"  she  said,  finding  her 
eyelids  too  heavy  to  lift.  "We  have  a 
wonderful,  wonderful  little  boy.  .  .  ." 

Less  than  twelve  hours  later,  she  was  on 
the  telephone,  national  Tennessee  Ernie 
hookup,  saying  to  her  husband,  "He  looks 
exactly  like  you.  He  has  the  same  beauti- 
ful   eyes    .    .    ." 

Bill,  unmindful  of  the  national  hookup, 
had  to  correct  such  an  obvious  error.  "No, 


honey.  He  looks  exactly  like  you.  His 
coloring,  the  shape  of  his  nose  .  .  ." 

"But,  Bill,  how  can  you  say  such  a 
thing!  His  nose  is  yours  over  and  over 
again.  Wait  until  your  mother  sees  him. 
First  thing  she'll  say  .  .  ." 

"Wait  until  your  mother  sees  him.  She'll 
soon  tell  you — " 

Tennessee  Ernie  interrupted  to  suggest 
that  he  was  a  man  entitled  to  a  nervous 
breakdown,  to  wit:  Line  charges  for  three 
weeks,  nervous  tension  for  a  month,  and 
now  a  family  disagreement  over  the  shape 
of  an  infant's  nose. 

The  first  morning  Joan  and  Bill  found 
themselves  alone  with  the  baby  (the 
grandmothers  had  gone  home,  tired  and 
happy),  Joan  lifted  the  gurgling  bundle 
out  of  his  bassinet  and  cuddled  him  for 
a  moment — before  her  expression  soured. 
"He's  wet,"  she  told  Bill  in  the  carefully 
controlled  voice  of  the  panic-stricken. 

"Normal,"  said  Bill  with  a  shrug.  "He'll 
have  to  be  changed." 

Joan  stood  rooted,  staring  at  her  hus- 
band. In  all  her  life,  she  had  never  altered 
an  infant's  seating  arrangements.  Until 
the  moment  of  Rusty's  birth,  she  had  been 
too  busy,  professionally,  to  attend  pre- 
natal instruction  classes,  and  she  had  no 
younger  brothers  or  sisters. 

Bill  began  to  chuckle.  "Never  mind,"  he 
said.  "I'm  onto  this  routine.  After  all,  I 
have  had  to  valet  a  flock  of  nieces  and 
nephews.  Really,  there's  not  much  to  it. 
You  just  remove  the  pins,  fastening  them 
on  your  shirt  well  out  of  the  reach  of 
flailing  hands.  .  .  ." 

Let's  face  it.  When  housewives  start 
to  rhapsodize  about  the  time-saving,  com- 
fort-providing devices  now  available  for 
use  around  the  home,  they  seldom  mention 
the  most  important  of  all:   a  husband. 

Another  good  job  for  a  husband  is  that 
of  official  family  photographer.  Long  be- 
fore Rusty  was  born,  Bill  had  become  a 
dedicated  shutter  bug;  nowadays,  Joan 
says,  he  should  own  a  sizeable  chunk  of 
Eastman. 

One  of  the  first  pictures  taken  recorded 
the  elegance  of  Russell  Glenn  Strange  on 
his  baptismal  day,  dressed  to  the  pinnacle 
of  fashion  in  a  handmade  robe  given  to 
him  by  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Bob  Crosby.  An- 
other snapshot  caught  his  delight  over  the 
Japanese  doll  sent  to  him  from  the  Orient 
by  his  granduncle,  who  is  in  the  Navy. 
(Bill  isn't  certain  he  approves  of  the  gift 
for  his  son.  "About  sixteen  years  early 
for  dolls,  if  you  ask  me.") 

Another  shows  Rusty  listening  to  the 
hearty  tick  of  the  antique  watch  given 
him  at  Christmas,  1955,  by  his  Grand- 
father Strange.  Enclosed  with  the  watch 
was  a  priceless  letter  "writ  by  hand"  by 
Mr.  Strange  to  explain  to  his  grandson  the 
incalculable   value    and   mystery    of   time. 

There  is  also  a  prize  shot  of  Rusty  and 
his  king-sized  piggy  bank,  into  which  Joan 
and  Bill  empty  the  day's  accumulation  of 
pennies,  each  night.  As  quickly  as  the 
bank  fills  up,  the  pennies  are  deposited 
in  a  savings  account  to  be  used  for  Rusty's 
college  training.  Perhaps  at  some  such 
music  school  as  Juilliard.  .  .  .  Because 
Rusty  seems  to  have  inherited  his  par- 
ents' musical  gifts.  When  they  sing  to 
him,  he  sings  right  back — and  on  pitch, 
too.  Since  his  first  month  of  life,  he  has 
moved  in  time  to  music,  first  little  more 
than  a  flapping  of  hands  and  a  squirm, 
then  a  metronoming  of  the  head,  and  now 
a  spirited  bounce.  As  far  as  Rusty  is  con- 
cerned, it's  neat  if  it  has  that  beat. 

Joan  and  Bill  are  so  impressed  with  him 
that  they  plan  to  provide  him  with  a 
companion — but  don't  rush  things,  nor 
jump  to  conclusions.  That  news  hasn't 
swept  through  the  rehearsal  halls  and 
control  booths,  as  yet  .  .  .  and  the  broad- 
asting  grapevine  would  be  sure  to  know! 


cas 


Now— so  easy  to  be 
a  blonde  again! 

Actually  simpler  than  setting  your  hair! 


If  your  hair  was  born  to  be  blonde— 
and  isn't— or  if  you're  a  brownette 
with  blonde  ambitions,  Light  and 
Bright  by  Richard  Hudnut  is  for 
you.  It's  a  home  hair-lightener  de- 
signed to  bring  out  all  the  hidden 
gold  in  your  hair  . . .  make  you  as 
blonde  as  you  were  born  to  be. 

Light  and  Bright  is  so  simple  and 
easy  to  use;  simpler,  in  fact,  than 
setting  your  hair.  No  messy  mixing. 
No  complicated  testing.  No  worri- 
some timing.  And  Light  and  Bright 
gives  you  genuine  "color  control"! 

Light  and  Bright  works  so  gently, 
so  gradually,  you  don't  have  to 
worry  about  getting  too  blonde  too 
fast.  Each  time  you  use  Light  and 
Bright  your  hair  gets  a  little  lighter, 


a  little  brighter.  When  you  reach 
just  the  color  you  want,  you  stop. 

Light  and  Bright  contains  no  am- 
monia. If  s  formulated  with  a  special 
built-in  conditioner.  Wonderful,  the 
way  Light  and  Bright  makes  you  a 
true,  natural-looking  blonde  again 
. . .  with  lovely  shining-soft  hair!  And 
once  this  gentle  home  brightener 
has  brought  to  light  your  real 
blondeness  that  mousey  look  is 
gone  for  keeps.  Your  new  golden 
look  won't  wash  out,  won't  fade. 
Guaranteed  by  Good  Housekeeping. 

Get  a  bottle  today— be  a  blonde 
beauty  tomorrow.  Only  $1.50  plus 
tax  for  Light  and      /ssRr°!^,™«»»jv 
Bright  at  cosmetic      fy*%*%& 
counters. 


Advertisement 


MOVIE  STAR  Photos  in  COLOR 

12  lor 


KEY^NTEKPIISES.C.P.O.IOilUt.N.Y.  l.N  r.Oept.  0 


OLD  LEG  TROUBLE 


Easy  to  use  Viscose  Applications  may 
heal  many  old  leg  sores  due  to  venous 
congestion  of  varicose  veins,  leg  swell- 
ing or  injuries.  Send  today  for  a  FREE 
BOOK  and  No-Cost-For-Trial-plan. 

R.  G.    VISCOSE  COMPANY 
140  N.  Dearborn  Street,    Chicago  2.  Illinois 


s 


EW  BABY  SHOES 

AT   HOME   ....   No   Canvassing.   $40 
Weekly  possible. 
Write  TINY-TOT  CO..  Gallipolis  32.  Ohio 


High  School  Course 

at  Home 


y  Finish  in  2  Years 

I  Go  as  rapidly  as  your  time  and  abilities  permit.  Equivalent  to  reai- 
|  dent    school    work — prepares   for    college    entrance   exams.    Standard 
*I.    S.    texte   supplied.    Diploma    awarded.    Credit   for    H.    S.    subjects 
ompleted.  Sinele  subjects  if  desired.  Ask  fi>r  Free  Bulletin. 

American  School,  Oept.  HB53.  Drexel  at  58th,  Chicago  37 


STOP  PAIN  INSTANTLY 

COMBAT  INFECTION-PROMOTE  HEALING 

WITH  ANTISEPTIC 


Campho-Pheniaue 

M         (pronounced  cam-fo-fin-eek)    ^t 


uS£EoN„  MINOR  BURNS, GUTS 

SCRATCHES,  ABRASIONS 

Quick!  Apply  Campho-Phenique  at  once  to  minor  burns 
from  hot  cooking  utensils,  hot  water  or  steam  . .  .  stops  pain 
instantly,  promotes  rapid  healing.  The  same  thing  happens 
when  you  use  it  on  minor  cuts,  scratches  and  abrasions. 
Campho-Phenique  is  highly  antiseptic.  Wonderful  for  fever 
blisters,  cold  sores,  gum  boils;  to  relieve  itching  and  to  guard 
against  infecting  insect  bites.  Used  on  pimples,  Campho- 
Phenique  helps  prevent  their  spread  and  re-infection. 


.*>,<■    -  - 


85 


all  eyes  are  on 
the  lady  with 


•H 


for  the 
hairs  to 

which 
applied 


PERMANENT  DARKENER 
FOR  LASHES  AND  BROWS 


•  NOT  A  DYE! 

•  One  application  lasts  4  to  5  weeks! 

"Dark-Eyes"  is  the  perfect  way  to  make  eye- 
lashes and  brows  completely  natural  looking. 
Accepted  by  Boards  of  Health  all  over  Amer- 
ica. No  caution  label  required.  "Dark-Eyes" 
is  NOT  A  MASCARAI  Eliminates  the  bother 
of  daily  eye  make-up.  It  is  PERMANENT, 
SWIMPROOF,  SMUDGEPROOF, 
TEARPROOF,  and  SMEARPROOFI 

Ideal   to    "touch-up"    those   first 
gray  hairsl 

$1.00  Iplus  taxi  at  leading  drug, 
dept.   and  variety  chain  stores. 


'DARK-EVES"  COMPANY,  Depl.  p. 
3319  W.  Carroll  Ave..  Chicago  24,  III. 

I  encloie  25<  {coin  or  stomps— lax  included)  for  TRIAL  SIZE 
PACKAGE  of  "Dark-Eyes"  with  directions. 

check  color:    □  Black    □  Brown 


76 


Name. 


POEMS  WANTED 

Vblfflll  For  musical  setting  .  .  .  Send 
™  ^^  ^^  ■  » ■  ^^  your  Poems  today  for  FREE 
EXAMINATION.      Any      subject.      Immediate     consideration. 

CROWN  MUSIC  CO.,  1476-L  Broadway,  New  York  36,  N.Y. 


MISSING 


Folks  with  bronchial  asthma  are  missing  won- 
derful relief  from  discomfort  by  not  using  Dr. 
R.  Schiffmann's  ASTHMADOR.  The  medicated 
fumes  of  this  famous  inhalant  help  check  con- 
gestion, make  breathing  easier.  Get  Asthmador 
in  powder,  cigarette  or  pipe  mix  form  at  your 
druggist's  today! 

ASTHMADOR 


Happy  Is  The  Day 
When  Backache 
Goes  Away .... 

Nagging  backache,  headache,  or  muscular  aches  and 
pains  may  come  on  with  over-exertion,  emotional  up- 
sets or  day  to  day  stress  and  strain.  And  folks  who 
eat  and  d  rink  unwisely  sometimes  suffer  mild  bladder 
irritation... with  that  restless,  uncomfortablefeeling. 
If  you  are  miserable  and  worn  out  because  of 
these  discomforts,  Doan's  Pills  often  help  by  their 
pain  relieving  action,  by  their  soothing  effect  to  ease 
bladder  irritation,  and  by  their  mild  diuretic  action 

T  through  the  kidneys— tending  to  increase  the  output 

V  of  the  15  miles  of  kidney  tubes. 

So  if  nagging  backache  makes  you  feel  dragged-out, 

"  miserable,  with  restless,  sleepless  nights,  don't  wait, 

try  Doan's  Pills,  get  the  same  happy  relief  millions 
have  enjoyed  for  over  60  years.  Ask  for  new,  large, 
economy  size  and  save  money.  Get  Doan's  Pills  today ! 

86 


Love's  Guiding  Light 


(Continued  from  page  35) 
fell  just  right,  so  he  did  not  have  to  be 
away  in  Toronto,  from  which  city  he  has 
been  doing  a  Friday-night  broadcast  over 
the  CBC  network — a  program  called  Songs 
Of  My  People,  which  features  folk  songs 
of  many  countries.  At  the  time,  it  had 
helped  Susan  a  lot  to  know  Jan  was  right 
there,  during  the  twenty-two  hours  of 
labor  preceding   Chris's   arrival. 

This  time,  with  Jonathan,  it  had  to  be 
quite  different.  Jan  had  come  home  for 
the  Christmas  holidays  and  gone  right 
back  to  his  tour,  and  both  he  and  Susan 
knew  he  would  be  some  three  thousand 
miles  away  when  she  must  make  her 
second  trip  to  the  hospital.  Everything, 
therefore,  had  to  be  planned  without  him. 
And,  like  many  of  those  best-laid  plans 
of  mice  and  men,  this  one  went  p-f-f-tt! 
Young  Jonathan,  it  seemed,  had  plans  of 
his  own  about  the  right  time  to  be  born, 
and  decided  to  make  it  two  weeks  early. 

Susan  has  been  vacationing  from  The 
Guiding  Light  for  some  six  or  seven  weeks, 
although  she  had  worked  until  the  last 
two  weeks  before  Chris  was  born.  "It  got 
to  be  a  little  awkward,"  Susan  recalls, 
"being  on  television  and  trying  to  hide 
behind  the  backs  of  sofas  and  chairs — be- 
cause, in  the  script,  I  was  not  expecting 
a  baby  and  wasn't  supposed  to  look  preg- 
nant. So,  this  time,  I  decided  to  stop 
sooner,  and  really  had  all  the  time  in  the 
world  to  prepare  for  the  newcomer.  Ex- 
cept that  I  wanted  to  keep  a  lot  of  things 
to  do  until  the  last  week  or  so,  to  help 
me  get  through  that  last-minute  waiting. 
I  hadn't  fixed  the  bassinet,  or  ordered 
enough  little  shirts  and  things  like  that, 
or  the  things  I  'would  need  from  the  drug- 
store. I  hadn't  even  packed  my  little  bag, 
that  one  which  every  mother-to-be  keeps 
in  readiness  for  her  trip  to  the  hospital. 

"The  only  definite  plan  I  had  made  was 
that  my  closest  friend,  Phyllis  Hirschfeld, 
would  go  with  me  to  the  hospital  when  the 
time  came.  She  knew  on  just  what  dates 
she  was  to  hold  herself  in  readiness.  In  the 
meantime,  I  was  feeling  just  wonderful  and 
making  all  kinds  of  dates  and  plans.  The 
night  before  Jonathan  was  born,  I  had 
gone  with  a  friend  to  see  'The  Cherry 
Orchard.'  And,  all  unknowing,  for  the 
night  after  Jonathan  came,  I  had  made 
plans  to  have  a  guest  at  the  apartment  for 
dinner — a  sensational  young  pianist,  Glenn 
Gould,  my  husband's  friend  and  mine." 

Another  of  their  friends,  a  director  with 
the  Canadian  Broadcasting  Company,  had 
been  visiting  with  Susan  on  that  in-be- 
tween night  when  she  was  puttering 
around  the  house.  He  was  flying  to  Europe 
the  next  morning,  and  was  going  to 
stretch  out  on  the  iiving-room  couch  and 
get  some  sleep,  so  Susan  left  him  to  rest 
while  she  decided  to  finish  a  project  she 
had  been  planning,  the  re-painting  of  a 
waste  basket  and  clothes  hamper  in  her 
bathroom.  Triumphantly,  around  mid- 
night, she  stood  back  to  admire  her  handi- 
work and  began  to  tidy  up  the  place. 
Fifteen  minutes  later,  she  began  to  think 
that  perhaps  she  shouldn't  have  let  the 
rain  that  day  prevent  her  from  keeping 
her  appointment  with  her  doctor.  Those 
pains  she  was  getting  came  uncomfortably 
close  together.  Maybe  this  was  the  "false 
labor"  she  had  heard  so  much  about? 

Timidly,  at  half-past  midnight,  she  de- 
cided to  phone  the  doctor.  "I  hate  to 
bother  you,"  she  began,  "but  could  this 
possibly  be  .  .  .  ?" 

He  said,  "Get  dressed  and  get  yourself 
right  to  the  hospital.  I'll  call  and  make 
the  arrangements  and  you  will  be  ex- 
pected.    I'll  meet  you  there." 


Susan  said,  "I  can't  go  yet.  I  have  to 
call  my  maid's  house  and  see  if  she  can 
come  and  stay  with  Chris.  Please  don't 
hurry,  because  I  have  to  arrange  things 
here." 

The  doctor  laughed.  "Get  to  the  hos- 
pital," he  cautioned  her. 

Unhurried,  still  believing  she  had  all  the 
time  in  the  world,  she  called  the  maid, 
who  promised  to  come  as  soon  as  she 
could  make  arrangements  for  someone  to 
watch  over  her  children,  which  might  take 
a  couple  of  hours.  Susan  called  her  friend 
Phyllis,  and  told  her  not  to  worry.  "I'll 
get  a  cab  and  go  to  the  hospital  and  you 
can  come  in  the  morning,"  she  said.  Phyllis 
told  her  not  to  stir  until  she  got  there. 

"It  was  1: 15  A.M.  when  Phyllis  came  for 
me,  and  I  had  to  admit  I  was  happy  she 
was  there,  that  she  had  a  cab  waiting 
downstairs  in  the  street,  and  I  didn't  have 
to  go  out  into  the  dark  and  cold  by  myself. 
I  wasn't  feeling  very  comfortable  by  then. 
Before  I  left,  I  woke  our  friend  John 
Reeves  and  asked  him  to  keep  an  ear 
cocked  for  any  sound  from  Chris,  who 
might  happen  to  wake  up  and  wonder 
where  his  mommie  was,  explaining  that 
the  maid  would  be  along  soon. 

"When  Phyllis  and  I  got  to  the  hospital, 
we  found  the  door  locked  and  had  to 
wait  until  someone  answered  our  ring.  We 
forgot  that  only  the  emergency  entrance 
would  be  open  at  that  hour  of  the  night. 
It  was  almost  two  o'clock  then.  While  I 
was  giving  the  usual  information  to  the 
woman  who  registered  me,  I  kept  think- 
ing: Nuts-to-all-this-I-wish-I-were-up- 
stairs-in-bed-and-could-shut-my-eyes.But 
it  was  soon  over,  and  there  were  the 
nurse  and  the  resident  doctor,  waiting  for 
me.  When  the  doctor  told  me  the  baby 
would  be  born  within  the  hour,  I  laughed. 
I  thought  he  was  trying  to  make  me  think 
it  would  soon  be  over.  Not  that  I  had  any 
fear — because  Chris  had  been  born  in 
natural  childbirth  and  so  was  Jonathan 
to  be.  Then  I  heard  the  doctor  tell  the 
nurse  she  had  better  get  me  into  the  de- 
livery room  quickly,  and  just  about  this 
time  my  own  doctor  appeared.  Ten  min- 
utes later,  about  forty  minutes  after  I 
arrived  at  the  hospital,  our  second  son  was 
born,  an  eight-pound,  beautiful  little  boy, 
who  looks  even  more  like  Jan  than  his 
older  brother  does,  although  both  little 
blond  boys  favor  their  daddy. 

It  was  simply  terrific!  Everything  went 
so  smoothly.  I  telephoned  Jan  the  very 
first  moment  I  was  able  to  do  so,  and  it 
was  wonderful  to  hear  his  voice.  I  felt 
elated,  and  very  happy — and  suddenly  a 
■  little  hungry.  So  the  doctor  let  Phyllis 
stay  with  me  a  while  and  we  had  tea  and 
cookies." 

When  Jan  answered  that  telephone  call 
in  San  Leandro,  he  had  said  to  Susan, 
"Hi,  how  are  you?"  Susan  laughs  at  that 
now.  "It  was  just  as  if  it  were  the  middle 
of  any  day,  and  not  across  the  country  in 
the  middle  of  the  night.  I  told  him  about 
our  boy  and  he  said  he  guessed  it  the 
minute  he  was  summoned  to  the  phone. 
I  know  it  was  very  much  on  his  mind. 
And  he  seemed  to  have  known  all  along 
that  we  would  have  a  boy,  although  we  had 
chosen  a  name  for  a  girl — Lynn — just  in 
case.  .  .  . 

"He  had  left  a  letter  with  Phyllis,  to  give 
to  me  with  some  flowers  when  the  baby 
came,  and  in  it  he  told  me  he  hoped  I 
wouldn't  be  disappointed  at  having  an- 
other son,  instead  of  a  daughter.  And  he 
said  he  was  delighted.  I  was  simply  floored 
by  his  assurance!" 

Never  for  one  moment  did  Susan  feel 
a   bit   sorry   for   herself   because    she   had 


to  face  this  second  confinement  without 
her  husband  being  near.  Knowing  Jan 
has  a  career  that  takes  him  away  from  her 
for  about  five  months  out  of  every  year, 
she  had  learned  to  face  that  fact,  and 
to  accept  it.  Actually,  she  had  little  chance 
to  feel  lonely.  She  had  deliberately  chosen 
to  be  put  in  a  room  with  four  other  young 
mothers,  all  of  whom  had  their  babies  a 
few  days  apart,  rather  than  to  be  alone  in 
a  private  room  or  even  in  a  room  with 
only  one  other  mother. 

"You're  not  really  ill  when  you  have 
a  baby,  and  the  fun  is  to  be  with  some  of 
the  others  who  have  just  gone  through 
the  same  experience.  AH  of  us  were  fac- 
ing the  same  problems  when  we  got  home 
— how  much  help  we  would  need  with  the 
new  baby,  how  to  handle  the  normal  jeal- 
ousy of  an  older  child  when  this  little 
newcomer  entered  the  household.  All  the 
things  that  happen  as  a  family  grows.  Two 
of  the  mothers  had  one  other  child,  the 
other  two  had  two  other  children,  and  it 
was  really  sensational  what  fun  we  had 
discussing  everything.  We  admired  one 
another's  babies  when  they  were  brought 
in  to  be  fed,  bragged  about  how  much 
each  was  gaining.  I  would  talk  to  Chris 
over  the  phone  every  day.  Funny  little 
conversations:  How  are  you,  darling?  Do 
you  miss  Mommie?     Mommie  is  going  to 

{bring  a  baby  brother  home  to  you.  Will 
you  like  that? 
"The  girls  would  smile  at  me  while  I 
talked,  and  I  would  do  the  same  when 
they  talked  to  their  children.  When  their 
husbands  came  to  visit,  I  missed  mine,  of 
course.  Jan  had  to  wait  until  late  in 
March  to  see  our  son,  and  I  could  hardly 
wait  to  show  him  off!" 

Right  now,  Susan  isn't  sure  she  won't 
feel  a  little  cheated  if  they  don't  have  a 
daughter,  too,  some  day.  Then  she  would 
want  a  fourth  child,  feeling  that  with  three 
there  is  apt  to  be  pairing  off  and  that  one 
may  be  left  out  and  a  little  lonely. 

1  hope  we  can  do  enough  for  four  chil- 
dren," she  says  gravely.  "Now  I  have 
a  nurse  and  a  maid,  because  I  am  on  The 
Guiding  Light  and  must  be  away  at  cer- 
tain hours  from  the  children.  And  we 
must  look  ahead — to  kindergarten,  good 
schools;  college,  maybe  camp  in  summer, 
sports  equipment  and  things  like  that 
which  all  boys  need.  They  will  be  want- 
ing to  take  girls  out  when  they  grow  up, 
and  we  will  want  them  to  do  the  things 
the  other  boys  do  and  to  be  part  of  every- 
thing that  goes  on.  Although  I  hope  we 
won't  be  foolish  enough  to  think  they 
have  to  have  everything  some  other  boy 
has! 

"On  the  other  hand,  I  began  to  think 
how,  if  there  are  girls  in  a  family,  all 
the  boys  in  the  neighborhood  flock  to  your 
house  and  the  place  is  always  filled  with 
young  people.  Boys  always  go  to  the 
girls'  houses,  except  when  something  spec- 
cial  is  planned  at  their  own.  I  don't  like 
to  think  that  when  the  kids  begin  to 
grow  up  they  will  be  somewhere  else,  and 
that  the  other  mothers — the  ones  with 
daughters — will  be  having  all  the  fun 
while  Jan  and  I  sit  at  home  alone. 

"A   girl    goes   out   on   dates    and   comes 
home  and  tells  her  mother  about  it,  but 
a  boy  is  apt  to  keep  his  own  counsel  and 
think  you're  prying  if  you  ask  him  where 
he  has  been  and  what  he  did.     When  he 
gets  married,  there's  no  trousseau  to  shop 
for,  and  he's  out  of  your  life  more  than  a 
daughter  is." 
Susan  laughed.     "If  this  sounds  as  if  I 
partial  to  girls,  I'm  not.    I  adore  little 
aoys,  and  so  does  Jan.    I  just  think  I  might 
ike  a  daughter,  too.    And  here  I  am,  mar- 
king  off  my  two   boys,   before   we   have 
ever    had    time    for    all    those    wonderful 
days    and    weeks    and    months    and   years 
ogether — before  they  will  even  be  think- 


ing of  leaving  home  and  going  off  on  their 
own.  I  certainly  do  not  intend  to  be  the 
kind  of  mother  that  holds  her  sons  too 
closely." 

In  the  meantime,  there  are  many  bright 
adventures  ahead  for  all  of  them.  Susan, 
back  on  The  Guiding  Light  since  early 
last  April,  being  Kathy  Grant,  and  wish- 
ing that  Kathy 's  life  could  be  as  lovely  as 
hers — but  loving  playing  this  other  girl. 
Jonathan,  growing  bigger  and  cuter  and 
smarter  every  day.  Chris,  fascinated  by 
his  small  brother,  wanting  to  admire  him 
and  play  with  him  all  the  time,  never 
quite  understanding  why  he  can't  pick 
him  up  and  carry  him  wherever  his  own 
little  legs  can  travel  (Chris  is  a  tall, 
slender  boy  like  his  six  foot  two-inch 
daddy,  and  quite  different  from  his  tiny 
five  foot  three -fourth  inch,  96 -pound 
mommie) .  And  Jan,  watching  for  signs 
of  his  own  talent  in  his  sons,  as  Chris 
plays  records.  Chris  seems  fascinated  by 
the  music  he  hears  on  the  radio,  as  he 
strums  the  keyboard  of  the  big  piano  and 
marvels  at  the  sounds  from  the  tape  re- 
corder. With  all  this,  Chris  is  also  an 
athletic,  active  fellow  like  his  dad — loving 
to  run  and  jump  and  play  games. 

"A  bit  of  a  ham,  too,  who  loves  being 
noticed,"  his  daddy  says  of  Chris.  "And 
a  happy,  friendly  little  boy,"  Susan  says 
of  him,  "who  always  smiles  back  at  people 
who  smile  at  him  in  the  street,  and  says 
'Hi.'  Already  Jonathan  shows  signs  of 
being  the  same  kind  of  happy,  friendly 
child,  too." 

1  hey  live  in  an  apartment  with  two 
bedrooms  and  baths,  not  very  far  uptown 
in  New  York  and  also  not  far  from  Central 
Park's  green  shade,  its  carousel  and  the 
real,  live  ponies  drawing  little  carts  the 
kids  can  ride  in.  They  visit  the  zoo  and 
watch  the  seals  jump  up  out  of  their  big 
tank  to  catch  the  fish  their  keeper  throws 
them   for  mid-day   dinner. 

The  apartment  is  attractive,  with  light 
wood  furniture  and  a  combination  of  white 
and  pinky-orange  shades  and  black  ac- 
cents in  the  living  room  and  their  bed- 
room and  the  kitchen,  and  pale  aqua  and 
white  and  soft  greens  in  the  boys'  room. 
They  need  more  space  now,  would  like  a 
duplex  apartment — two  floors,  with  a 
walled  garden  of  the  kind  that  can  some- 
times  be   found   in   New   York. 

This  summer,  Susan  and  Jan  will  be 
playing  some  golf  together,  at  least  on 
weekends.  They  used  to  go  skiing  in 
winter,  but  now  Susan  has  little  chance 
and  Jan  must  do  his  skiing  far  from  home 
during  his  winter  concert  tours,  whenever 
he  finds  himself  in  snow  country  with  a 
little  time  to  spare.  "People  are  wonder- 
ful to  Jan  wherever  he  goes,"  his  wife 
says  proudly.  "When  he  gives  a  concert 
in  a  city  or  town  and  they  find  out  he 
likes  these  things,  they  always  see  that  he 
has   invitations." 

At  home,  Jan  has  his  practicing,  of 
course,  and  Susan  has  lines  to  learn  day 
after  day.  She  used  to  do  sculpture  and 
loves  it,  but  there  seems  to  be  no  room 
for  the  masses  of  wet  clay  and  all  the  par- 
aphernalia required,  even  if  there  were 
hours  enough  in  the  day  to  find  time 
for  it,  with  two  merry  little  boys  demand- 
ing her  attention,  a  daily  television  drama, 
and  a  husband  whose  time  at  home  is 
limited  and  therefore  correspondingly 
cherished. 

Susan  Douglas  isn't  complaining,  how- 
ever. Not  for  one  moment.  She  and  Jan 
— both  Czechoslovakians,  who  left  their 
native  country,  met  for  the  first  time  on  a 
movie  set  in  Canada,  married  in  New 
York,  and  are  now  naturalized  citizens — 
are  proud  and  happy  parents  of  two  little 
American  boys.  She  only  wishes  that 
Kathy  Grant,  the  girl  she  is  on  tele- 
vision, could  be  even  one-half  so  happy! 


ANNUAL 


'56  EDITION 
TERRIFIC! 

It's  terrific.  It's  the  big  TV-RADIO  book-of- 
the-year.  It's  the  new  1956  TV- Radio  Annual. 
This  glamorous  new  edition  tops  them  all.  It's 
just  bursting  with  pictures,  facts  and  stories 
about  the  lives  of  all  your  favorite  entertainers. 
You'll  refer  to  this  book  over  and  over  again. 
Get  your  copy  before  they  are  all  gone.  Here 
are  some  of  the  features  contained  in  this 
marvelous  yearbook. 

THE  YEAR'S  ROUNDUP— News  .  .  .  gossip  .  .  . 
chit-chat  about  your  favorite  entertainers.  Your 
eyes  will  pop  at  some  of  these  inside  stories.  Lots 
of  pictures,   too. 

NEW  SHOWS  OF  THE  YEAR— The  stars  that 
made  these  shows  click:  The  $64,000  Question 
(Hal  March)   •  Ford  Star  Jubilee  (Bing  Crosby) 

•  The  Woolworth  Hour  (Percy  Faith)  •  Mickey 
Mouse  Club    (Roy   Williams   and   Jimmie   Doddi 

•  The  Chevy  Show  (Bob  Hope,  Dinah  Shore)  • 
The  Big  Surprise  (Jack  Barry)  •  You'll  Never 
Get  Rich   (Phil  Silvers). 

PERSONALITIES  OF  THE  YEAR— Full-page  pic- 
tures, plus  the  exciting  stories  behind  Cathy  and 
Bob  Crosby  •  Patti  Page  •  Jackie  Gleason  • 
James  Arness,  William  Conrad  •  Christine, 
Phyllis  and  Dorothy  McGuire. 

WHO'S  WHO  IN  TV  COMEDY— True-life  stories 
of  Bob  Cummings  and  Rosemary  DeCamp  •  Ann 
Davis,  Dwayne  Hickman  •  Peg  Lynch  and  Alan 
Bunce  •  Vanessa  Brown  and  Barry  Nelson  • 
Leonid  Kinskey,  Margaret  Irving,  Pat  Breslin 
and  Jackie  Cooper  •  Spring  Byington,  Harry 
Morgan,  Verna  Felton,  Dean  Miller  and  Frances 
Rafferty  •  George  Gobel  and  Peggy  King  •  Sid 
Caesar  and  Nanette  Fabray. 

WHO'S  WHO  IN  MUSIC-VARIETY— Liberace  • 
Julius  LaRosa  •  Johnny  Desmond  •  Tommy  and 
Jimmy  Dorsey  •  June  Taylor  Dancers  •  Frankie 
Laine  •   Florian  ZaBach. 

ALWAYS  TOPS— Arthur  Godfrey  •  Jack  Webb  • 
Eve  Arden  •  Erjiie  Ford  •  Ralph  Edwards  •  Dave 
Garroway  •  Arlene  Francis  •  Steve  Allen  •  Perry 
Como  •  Garry  Moore  •  Don  McNeill  •  Burr  Till- 
strom  and  Fran  Allison  •  Ed  Sullivan  •  Milton 
Berle  •  Martha  Raye  •  Robert  Q.  Lewis  •  Lucille 
Ball  and  Desi  Arnaz  •  Art  Linkletter  •  Jimmy 
Durante  •  Ozzie,  Harriet,  David  and  Ricky 
Nelson. 

PLUS — Pictures  and  biographies  from  the  most 
beloved  daytime  dramas  on  radio  and  TV. 

ONLY  50*  AT  ALL  NEWSSTANDS 

Get  your  copy  of  this  bestseller  before  the 
limited  supply  is  exhausted.  Only  50<J  at  al" 
newsdealers.  Or,  if  your  newsdealer  is  sold  ou 
mail  coupon  with  50^  today. 


TV-RADIO  MIRROR  Dept.   RM-756 

205  E.  42  St..  New  York  17.  N.  Y. 

Send    me    postpaid,     a    copy    of    TV-RADIO 
ANNUAL  1956.  I  enclose  50c. 


Name 

Please   Print 


I  Address. 


■  City State. 

! ' 


87 


Corns  and  Callouses 
lift  Right  Out! 


-—  HIST-  - 
3 RELIEF* 


Never  before 
anything  like  it 

No  waiting  for  relief  when 

you  use  Dr.  Sertoli's  Zino-pads.  They  stop  pain  at 
its  source  .  .  .  ease  new  or  tight  shoes  .  .  .  stop  corns, 
callouses  before  they  can  develop  .  .  .  remove  corns, 
callouses  one  of  the  quickest  ways  known  to  medical 
science.  New  skin-matching  color;  worn  invisibly. 
Try  them!  At  Drug,  Shoe,  Dept.,  5-100  Stores. 


D-Scholls  Zino-pads 


BUNIONS 


DOCTOR'S  FAST  RELIEF ! 

To  instantly  lift  painful  shoe 

friction  and  hide  the  unsightly 

bulge,  wear  Dr.  SchoU's  BUNION  REDUCER— a 

cushioning  shield  of  soft  rubber.   Worn  invisibly 

under  stocking.  Helps  preserve  shape  of  shoe.  Only 

750  each.  At  Drug,  Shoe,  Dept.  Stores  everywhere. 


PAID  if  used  for  advertising.  BIG  DE- 
MAND for  photos  of  infants  to  18  yrs. 
May  also  qualify  for  FREE  CAMERA. 
Send  ONE  small  photo  for  approval.  Print 
child's  and  mother's  name,  address  on  back. 
Returned  two  weeks.  NO  OBLIGATION. 

ADVERTISERS  PHOTOS 
GOOO-HT     Sunset,     Hollywood     28,     Calif. 


IT'S  GREAT  TO  CLEAR  YOUR  SKIN 

PSORIASIS 

—file  ugly  scaly  skin  trouble 


How  To  Be  A  Cinderella 


SPOT 

TEST. 


DERMOIL 


Enjoy  the  thrill  of  a  smooth 
clear  skin!  DERMOIL 
formula  used  by  many  doctors.  Amazing 
results  reported  for  over  22  years!  No 
matter  how  long  you  have  suffered,  write 
for  Free  Book  on  Psoriasis  with  "Before 
and  After"   photos  of  results,  and 
SEND  10c  for  generous  trial  bottle. 
Satisfaction  in  2  weeks  or  money 
back.  Sold  by  all  Druggists. 

LAKE    LABORATORIES,   Dept. 2104 

Box  39  2  5  Strathmoor  Station,  Detroit  27,  Mich. 


Oew/IOPjvr 
TRIAL 
.   SIZE 


102 


M.-e    102    ?SB  * 

With  SOUTHERN  Christmas  Cards     £^; 


YOU  CAN  DO  IT,  TOO! 

It's  so  easy!  Magnificent  MAGIC- 
LUSTRE  Name- In-Silver  TALL 
Cards  sell  like  magic  You  make  $1.00 
on  every  box;  $65  on  just  65  boxes!  Huge 
selection  of  fast-selling  $1  Assortments. 
2 1-Card  SOUTHERN  BEAUTY,  Photo- 
Personals,  3-IN-l  Ensembles.  Name- 
Imprinted  Christmas  Cards  25  for 
SI.  Over  50  popular  gift  items. 

BIG  PROFITS  PLUS  BONUS! 

You  make  up  to  150%  cash  profit;  in 
addition  you  get  up  to  6%  extra  as  a  cash 
bonus.  Fast  24-hour  service.  No  experi- 
ence needed.  Send  your  name  and  ad- 
dress for  EXCLUSIVE  Sample  Pre- 
sentation Book  FREE,  plus  assort- 
ments on  approval.  Write  NOW! 

SOUTHERN  GREETINGS,  Dept.  K-31 

478  North  Hollywood  St.,  Memphis  12,Tennessee 


(Continued  from  page  30) 
corners    any    members    of    her    staff    who 
happen   to   be   about   and,    together,    they 
thresh  out  the  problems. 

When  it  comes  to  one  group  of  letters, 
however,  Patti  knows  the  answer  better 
than  anyone.  These  are  the  letters  from 
would-be  singers,  who  dip  their  pens  in 
their  own  heart's  blood  and  cry  out:  How 
can  J  be  discovered?  .  .  .  And  Patti,  who 
once  uttered  the  same  cry  herself,  knows 
exactly  what  it  is  they  want  her  to  tell 
them.  But  how  can  she?  If  she  truly  wants 
to  help,  she  can  only  tell  the  truth.  And  if 
it  shatters  a  dream — well,  one  day  maybe 
they,  too,  will  learn  that  reality  is  more 
wonderful  than  any  dream. 

The  dream,  of  course,  is  the  age-old 
dream  of  being  Cinderella.  Not  the  origi- 
nal Cinderella  who  went  to  a  ball  and 
married  a  prince,  but  one  of  the  new 
Cinderellas — as  press  agents  call  them — ■ 
who  go  off  to  New  York  or  Hollywood  and 
become  stars  overnight. 

Certainly,  in  her  own  life,  Patti  qualifies 
as  one  of  the  most  authentic  Cinderellas 
in  television  today.  She  was  born  Clara 
Ann  Fowler  in  Claremore,  Oklahoma — a 
town  with  a  population  of  four  thousand, 
not  including  any  fairy  godmothers  who 
might  be  passing  through.  She  didn't  have 
any  mean  and  selfish  stepsisters,  like  the 
girl  in  the  fairy  tale,  but  she  did  have 
seven  real  sisters,  not  to  mention  three 
brothers.  And  they  were  poor  enough  for 
the  children  to  have  to  sleep  three  in  a 
bed. 

Patti  was  working  in  a  radio  station  in 
near-by  Tulsa  when  she  was  discovered — 
not  by  a  fairy  godmother  but  it  was  the 
next  best  thing.  Jack  Rael,  now  her 
partner-manager,  literally  appeared  out  of 
nowhere  and  heard  her  sing.  He  didn't 
have  any  magic  wands,  but  he  did  have 
know-how.  And  that's  how  it  happened 
that  Clara  Ann  Fowler  of  Oklahoma  was 
transformed  into  Patti  Page,  "The  Singing 
Rage." 

Cinderella  not  only  went  to  the  ball,  she 
had  a  ball.  It  is  now  over  six  years  since 
Patti  made  "Confess,"  her  first  hit  record 
for  Mecury.  Yet  today  she's  riding  higher 
than  ever.  The  clock  still  hasn't  struck 
twelve.  The  Patti  Page  Show  for  Olds- 
mobile,  her  fifteen-minute  filmed  variety 
series,  is  not  only  seen  in  175  cities  from 
coast  to  coast  but  throughout  Europe  and 
Canada,  as  well.  She  is  now  serving  as 
Perry  Como's  summer  replacement  on  his 
big  Saturday -night  show  for  NBC-TV. 
And,  this  fall,  Patti  will  have  her  own  live 
show  on  television. 

But  what  about  me?  The  letters  almost 
cry  out  for  attention.  How  can  I  be  Cin- 
derella, too?  .  .  .  "And  how  can  I  be  you?" 
Patti  feels  like  answering,  for  the  letter- 
writers  themselves  are  free — free  to  get 
the  things  in  life  that  really  matter  most. 
It  would  be  quite  a  shock  to  some  of  her 
fans  if  they  realized  how  much  Patti 
envies  them,  particularly  the  ones  who 
have  been  content  to  remain  at  home  and 
just  be  themselves.  For  these  are  the 
ones  who  can  "just  up  and  marry  one 
day."  These  are  the  ones  who  already  have 
babies — babies  they  name  after  Patti. 

"But  then,  they  name  their  dogs  after 
me,  too,"  she  adds.  And,  speaking  of  dogs, 
Patti  calls  her  own  out  onto  the  terrace. 
It's  a  toy  Yorkshire  terrier,  and  the  way 
she  strokes  him  with  a  far-off  look  in  her 
eyes,  you  can  tell  that  the  dog  is  a  very 
special  gift  from  a  very  special  young  man. 
For  Cinderella  has  met  her  prince  .  .  . 
only  Cinderella  can't  "just  up  and  marry." 

It  was  only  two  years  ago  that  she  had 
confessed  in  an  interview  with  TV  Radio 


Mirror,  "I  want  five  babies."  Now  she 
added:  "And  I'm  still  young  enough  to 
have  them." 

But  the  only  man  she  would  have  as 
their  father  was  some  three  thousand 
miles  away  in  Hollywood.  And  there  she 
sat,  on  the  terrace  of  her  luxurious  apart- 
ment in  New  York,  surrounded  by  stacks 
of  mail. 

And  how  can  I  be  a  great  singer,  too? 
her  fans  want  to  know.  How  can  I  be  just 
like  you?  .  .  .  That's  how  it  came  about — 
these  "Confessions  of  Cinderella." 

"Or  maybe,"  Patti  suggests,  since  she's 
never  lost  the  happy  faculty  of  laughing 
at  herself,  "maybe  we  could  call  it,  'What 
Really  Happened  at  the  Ball.'  .  .  . 

"To  begin  with,"  Patti  advises,  "ask 
yourself  this  question:  Do  you  really  want 
to  sing  or  do  you  just  want  to  go  to  the 
ball?" 

bure,  it's  wonderful  to  be  a  success — 
the  favorite  of  millions,  a  star  in  tele- 
vision, theaters  and  records.  It's  gratifying 
to  be  given  all  kinds  of  public  recognition. 
(Last  year,  Patti  received  the  Inter- 
faith  Award.  For  the  past  two  years,  the 
Teen-Agers  Survey  Service  has  voted  her 
its  Number  One  Singer.  And,  last  May, 
Patti  received  the  TV  Radio  Mirror  Spe- 
cial Award  as  your  "Favorite  TV  Female 
Singer.")  It's  great  to  have  your  clothes 
specially  designed  for  you,  to  drive  about 
in  a  big  car,  to  own  a  thirty-four-foot 
yacht.  And  it's  a  dream  come  true  to  have 
Perry  Como  for  a  friend. 

"But  the  success,"  Patti  insists,  "is  only 
a  by-product.  If  you  don't  really  want  to 
sing — if  you  don't  have  to  sing  more  than 
anything  else  in  this  world — you'll  never 
make  it." 

Success,  she  explains,  is  usually  a  long 
time  in  coming.  It  takes  years  of  training 
and  hard  work  and  "doing  without."  The 
dream  alone  can't  sustain  you.  "The  only 
thing  that  keeps  you  going  is  the  enjoy- 
ment you  get  out  of  singing.  It  it  weren't 
for  that,"  Patti  says  frankly,  "it  would 
just  be  a  lot  of  hard  work." 

Her  second  bit  of  advice  is:  Don't  go  to 
Hollywood  or  New  York  to  be  discovered. 
"You  have  to  figure  out  some  way  to  be 
seen  in  your  own  home  town."  In  her 
own  case,  she  sang  in  a  church  choir  and 
took  any  singing  job  she  could  get  around 
Tulsa.  When  Jack  Rael,  then  a  band  man- 
ager, was  passing  through  Tulsa  on  a  tour 
of  one-night  stands,  he  happened  to  hear 
her  singing  on  the  local  radio  station. 

Even  after  Patti  and  Jack  Rael  formed 
their  partnership,  they  spent  the  first  two 
years  touring  small  towns,  doing  one-night 
stands,  getting  the  necessary  experience  in 
night  clubs  and  small  theaters  before  Patti 
broke  into  network  radio  as  vocalist  for 
Don  McNeill's  Breakfast  Club.  And,  when 
Patti  started  recording  for  Mecury,  it 
wasn't  until  she  made  her  thirteenth  re- 
lease that  she  came  up  with  a  hit. 

Even  today,  it's  not  all  a  ball.  "I  am 
currently  involved  in  an  enterprise  which 
takes  up  twenty-six  hours  of  my  day," 
she  explains.  "The  alarm  in  my  apartment 
rings  at  five -thirty  in  the  morning.  At 
five-forty-five,  the  telephone  rings  and 
wakes  me.  It's  Jack  Rael  calling  to  make 
certain  the  alarm  has  awakened  me.  I 
assure  him  it  has.  At  six-thirty,  I  stagger 
out  of  the  house  and  wave  half-heartedly 
at  the  first  taxi  to  come  by.  It  takes  me  to 
the  studios  where  we  do  our  filming." 

For  The  Patti  Page  Show,  her  filmed 
television  series,  Patti  spends  two  of  these 
"twenty-six  hour  days"  recording,  two 
filming,  and  two  on  costumes.  "By  the 
time  Sunday  comes,"  she  admits,  "I  just 
want  to  sit  down." 


When  she  does  get  "to  sit  down,"  how- 
ever, Patti  does  it  in  a  place  that's  well 
worth  all  the  work.  It's  every  career  girl's 
dream  of  what  an  apartment  in  New  York 
should  be.  It's  bright  and  gay,  spacious  and 
airy — a  combination  of  French  provincial 
and  modern — designed  to  give  "the  feeling 
of  a  country  house  lost  in  the  city." 

And  last  February,  when  Ed  Murrow 
interviewed  Patti  on  CBS-TV's  Person  To 
Person,  her  fans  finally  got  a  chance  to  see 
how  Cinderella  lives.  Actually,  Patti  ap- 
peared on  the  show  to  give  her  family  a 
chance  to  "visit"  with  her —  for,  although 
she  visits  home  whenever  she  can,  and 
her  mother  and  father  come  East,  they  had 
not  yet  seen  Patti's  new  apartment. 

"Mother  loved  it,"  Patti  recalls.  "She 
was  very  pleased."  But  she  also  observed 
that  Patti  lived  there  alone.  What  was  the 
good  of  that  great  big  kitchen  if  there  was 
no  man  to  cook  for?  Who  wants  five  -  and  - 
a-half  rooms  if  there  are  no  children  to  fill 
them  up?  For,  although  Mrs.  Fowler  al- 
ready has  eleven  children,  twenty-five 
grandchildren,  and  a  crop  of  great-grand- 
children on  the  way,  it  is  the  dream  of  her 
life  that  "Clara  Ann"  get  married,  too. 

She  can  understand  her  daughter  being 
Patti  Page.  She  can  even  understand  her 
being  Cinderella.  What  she  can't  under- 
stand is  her  not  being  Mrs.  Charles 
O'Curran.  .  .  . 

Patti  and  Charles  met  almost  two  years 
ago,  when  he  was  staging  her  act  for  a 
personal-appearance  tour.  He  thought  she 
was  too  heavy,  too  shy,  too  undemon- 
strative. He  wanted  her  "to  give  out  more," 
to  use  her  hands,  even  to  dance.  Patti,  of 
course,  fought  him  every  step  of  the  way. 
"I'm  a  singer,"  she  insisted,  "not  a  dancer." 

But  then,  inexplicably,  she  learned  from 
the  man  what  she  had  resisted  in  the 
teacher.  "Charles  made  me  realize  how 
important  appearance  is  in  this  business," 
she  said.  But,  when  Patti  took  off  thirty- 
two  pounds,  it  wasn't  just  a  business  mat- 
ter. It  was  a  labor  of  love.  Overnight,  she 
seemed  to  acquire  poise,  sophistication.  It 
was  a  new  glamour,  but  it  came  from  with- 
in— for,  suddenly,  Patti  had  come  alive. 

"He's  my  ideal,"  Patti  confides.  "He's  a 
happy  person.  He's  in  show  business.  He 
likes  to  stay  home.  He  loves  dogs.  He  loves 
good  music.  He  loves  the  theater.  And  he 
loves  children." 

He  also  loves  Patti,  for,  when  he  had  to 
return  to  Hollywood  and  she  had  to  re- 
main in  New  York,  he  telephoned  her 
every  day.  Whenever  either  of  them  gets 
a  few  days  off,  they  pay  flying  visits  to 
each  other. 

"We're  planning  to  get  married,"  Patti 
said  last  November,  "but  .  .  ." 

It  is  a  remark  she  still  hasn't  finished,  for 
she  is  still  in  New  York  and  Charles  is 
still  in  Hollywood.  They  still  phone  every 
day,  they  still  pay  flying  visits.  But  their 
story  has  not  yet  ended  happily  ever  after, 
for  it  seems  that  Cinderella  can  have 
problems,  too — just  like  the  rest  of  us.  The 
same  problem  every  career  girl  has  when 
it  comes  to  love,  only  magnified  for  Patti. 

The  modern  career  girl  can  have  her 
success.  She  can  "have  a  ball."  But  what 
about  the  prince?  If  the  ball  goes  on  too 
long,  he  can  be  nothing  more  than  a 
dancing  partner.  And  how  can  the  prince 
give  Cinderella  the  world  if  she  already 
lias  it? 

In  Patti's  case,  much  as  she  regrets  the 
lelay  in  getting  married,  she's  proud  of 
Charles  for  insisting  upon  it.  If  Patti  still 
loesn't  know  the  wedding  date,  it's  be- 
cause the  decision  isn't  up  to  her.  She's 
just  old-fashioned  enough,  just  woman 
enough  to  leave  that  decision  up  to  the 
man.  When  Patti  marries,  it's  for  keeps — 
for  happily  ever  after.  That's  why  she  and 
Charles  are  trying  to  make  the  conditions 


right  before  the  wedding,  not  after.  And 
the  first  condition  for  a  happy  marriage  is 
that  the  man  be  the  head  of  the  house. 

This  doesn't  mean  that  Charles  wants 
Patti  to  give  up  her  career.  He  knows  how 
hard  she  has  worked  for  her  success,  and 
he's  proud  of  her.  But  a  marriage  can't 
work,  with  one  half  of  the  team  in  Holly- 
wood and  the  other  half  in  New  York  or 
on  the  road.  Charles  wants  to  make  sure 
they  can  be  together.  He  wants  to  have 
enough  money  so  that,  if  Patti  goes  on 
singing,  it's  because  she  wants  to — not  be- 
cause she  has  to.  And  he  must  provide  a 
home  for  those  five  babies  that  he  wants  as 
much  as  Patti.  For,  once  she  becomes  a 
mother,  Patti  will  give  up  her  career. 

"When  I'm  settled  with  a  definite  as- 
signment," Charles  has  assured  her,  "when 
I'm  secure,  then  we'll  get  married." 

It  isn't  easy,  for  there  are  no  steady 
jobs  in  show  business.  But  Charles  is  one 
of  the  top  directors  in  his  field.  When  Patti 
met  him,  he  was  staging  the  dance  se- 
quences in  Martin  and  Lewis  pictures.  In 
addition  to  staging  Patti's  act,  he  has  pre- 
pared such  top  stars  as  Howard  Keel,  Lilo 
and  Vic  Damone  for  their  personal  ap- 
pearances. Currently,  he  is  promoting  his 
own  musical  show  which  he  hopes  to  stage 
in  New  York. 

He  is  obviously  making  headway,  for  as 
recently  as  last  April,  Ed  Sullivan  an- 
nounced in  his  column:  "Patti  Page  and 
Charles  O'Curran  nearing  wedding  date." 
And  friends  of  the  two  were  making 
private  bets  that  Patti,  an  inveterate  sen- 
timentalist, would  be  a  "June  bride." 

In  the  meantime,  Patti  isn't  just  sitting 
around  waiting.  She  knows  that  life  isn't 
a  fairy  tale.  One  doesn't  just  end  up  living 
happily  ever  after.     One  works  for  it. 

"I'd  like  to  spend  six  months  of  each 
year  in  New  York,"  she  has  decided,  "and 
the  other  six  months  in  Hollywood." 

That's  why  she's  angling  for  a  job  in 
motion  pictures.  Recently,  Patti  appeared 
in  her  first  dramatic  role  on  CBS-TV's 
Appointment  With  Adventure.  "I  wanted 
to  prove  to  myself  and  to  my  agent,"  she 
says,  "that  it's  possible  for  me  to  be  more 
than  just  a  singer."  The  final  proof  will 
soon  be  coming  up,  for  Patti  is  taking  a 
screen  test  at  20th  Century-Fox. 

It's  ironical,  however — and  every  suc- 
cessful career  woman  can  testify  to  the 
fact — nowadays,  a  girl  not  only  has  to 
work  her  head  off  to  get  to  the  top,  but, 
once  she  gets  there,  she  has  to  work  twice 
as  hard  to  achieve  the  same  happiness 
that  other  girls  got  just  by  staying  at  home. 

So  you  want  to  be  Cinderella?  Patti 
feels  like  writing  to  her  fans.  Then  be  like 
the  original  one.  It  was  so  easy  for  her. 
Someone  else  got  her  the  clothes  for  the 
ball.  And  once  the  prince  saw  her,  all  she 
had  to  do  was  wait  around  the  house  until 
the  prince  found  her  again.  But,  unless 
you've  just  got  to  sing,  unless  you've  a 
talent  that  just  has  to  find  expression, 
don't  be  one  of  the  new  Cinderellas  who 
insist  upon  making  their  own  way  at  the 
ball.  ... 

But  then,  Patti  never  did  get  to  finish 
her  fan  mail  that  day.  She  was  interrupted 
by  a  long-distance  call  from  Hollywood, 
and  ran  to  her  bedroom  to  take  it  in 
private.  And,  suddenly,  all  was  well  with 
Cinderella. 

"It  won't  be  long  before  I'm  saying  'I 
do,' "  she  announced  happily. 

It  was  definite,  but  when  would  the  big 
event  take  place? 

Patti  laughed  with  such  pure  devilment, 
this  poor  reporter  just  couldn't  help  but 
feel  that  Patti  would  beat  him  to  the 
punch.  She'd  get  to  the  altar  before  he 
could  get  his  story  to  press.  That's  the  way 
it  is,  when  the  new  Cinderella  finds  her 
Prince  Charming. 


People  60  to  80: 
Tear  Out  This  Ad 

.  .  .  and  mail  it  today  to  find  out 
how  you  can  still  apply  for  a  $1,000 
life  insurance  policy  to  help  take 
care  of  final  expenses  without  bur- 
dening your  family. 

You  handle  the  entire  transac- 
tion by  mail  with  OLD  AMERI- 
CAN of  KANSAS  CITY.  No  obli- 
gation.    No  one  will  call  on  you! 

Write  today,  simply  giving  your      J 

name,   address   and   age.      Mail   to      r 

Old  American  Ins.  Co.,  1  West  9th, 

Dept.    L770M,    Kansas    City,    Mo. 

89 


Mothers  Friend 


At  Drug  Stores  Everywhere. 

THE  S.S.S.  COMPANY,  ATLANTA,  GA. 


A  Very  Good  Morning! 


INGROWN  NAIL 

Hurting  You? 

Immediate 
Relief! 

A  few  drops  of  OOTGRO®  bring  blessed  relief  from 
tormenting  pain  of  Ingrown  nail.  OTJTGEO  tough- 
ens the  skin  underneath  the  nail,  allows  the  nail  to 
be  cut  and  thus  prevents  further  pain  and  discom- 
fort.  OUTGRO  is  available  at  all  drug  counters. 


</TMS 


NU-NAILS 

ARTIFICIAL  FINGERNAILS 

Cover  short,  broken,  thin  nails 
with  nu-nails.  Applied  inajiffy 
with  our  amazing  new  quick-dry- 
ing glue.  Can  be  worn  any  length 
...  polished  any  shade.  Help  over- 
come nail-biting  habit.  Set of ten 
25c.  Atdime,  drug&  dept.  stores. 

NU-NAILS  CO.,  Dept.  16-H 
5251  W.Harrison,  Chicago 44 

Also  Hollywood  Fingernails..* 
Permanent  Dubonett  Rose  Color. 
No  polish  required  ...  39c  set. 


SKINNY  LEGS! 

Try 


90 


'-<■■ 


this  new  amazing  scien- 
tific home  method  to  ADD 
SHAPELY  CURVES  at  ankles, 
calves,    thighs,    knees,    hips! 

Skinny  legs  rob  the  rest  of  your  fig- 
ure of  attractiveness!  Now  at  last 
you  too  can  try  to  help  yourself 
improve  underdeveloped  legs,  due 
to  normal  causes,  and  fill  out  any 
part  of  your  legs  you  wish,  or  your 
legs  all  over  as  many  women  have 
by  following  this  new  scientific 
method.  Well  known  authority  on 
legs  with  years  of  experience  offers 
you  this  tested  and  proven  scien- 
tific course — only  15  minutes  a  day 
— in  the  privacy  of  your  home!  Con- 
tains step-bv-step  illustrations  of 
the  easy  SCIENTIFIC  LEG  technique 
v/jth  simple  instructions:  gaining 
shapely,  stronger  legs,  improving 
skin  color  and  circulation  of  legs. 
Send  No  Money!  FREE  10-Day  Trial! 
For  the  "Shapely  Legs  Home  Meth- 
od,*' just  deposit  $1.98  plus  post- 
age with  postman  on  delivery  'in 
plain  wrapper).  Or  send  only  SI. 98 
with  order  and  we  pay  postage. 
Satisfaction  guaranteed,  or  return 
course    for   money    back. 

MODERN   METHODS 

Dept.     SL-9807W 
296    Broadway  New   York    City   7 


(Continued  from  page  68) 
was   graduated    from   grammar    school    at 
the  Kew  Forest  School  in  New  York. 

Will's  first  two  years  of  high  school  were 
spent  at  the  Culver  Military  Academy  in 
Indiana,  the  last  two  at  Beverly  Hills  High 
School.  In  1931,  he  attended  Leland  Stan- 
ford University  for  a  year,  transferred  to 
the  University  of  Arizona  for  a  year,  then 
returned  to  Stanford.  There,  he  captained 
the  polo  team,  participated  in  varsity 
swimming  and  debating — and  met  his 
future  bride.  He  was  graduated  from 
Stanford  in  1935. 

Curiously  enough,  although  their  child- 
hood was  conditioned  by  the  fact  that 
their  father  was  in  show  business,  the 
Rogers  children  don't  think  of  him  as  an 
actor.  They  remember  him  as  a  writer, 
with  a  daily  column  to  get  out,  who 
sometimes  traveled  all  over  the  world 
to  dig  up  material. 

"Dad  kept  us  away  from  the  theatrical 
world,"  Will  recalls.  "And  then,  in  later 
years,  he  was  much  more  political  than 
theatrical.  The  people  who  came  to  our 
house  were  governors  and  senators,  not 
actors." 

Not  that  this  accounts  for  Will's  be- 
coming a  newspaperman.  "In  my  fresh- 
man year  at  high  school,"  he  explains,  "I 
started  out  to  be  a  printer.  I  guess  it 
was  while  setting  up  type  that  I  became 
interested  in  what  type  had  to  say.  Ever 
since,  my  life  has  fallen  into  a  journalis- 
tic   direction." 

Will  edited  his  school  paper,  The  Bev- 
erly Hills  Highlights,  and  became  high- 
school  correspondent  for  The  Beverly 
Hills  Citizen,  a  weekly  he  was  later  to 
buy.  At  Stanford,  he  studied  journalism 
and  became  an  editor  of  The  Stanford 
Daily.  After  graduation,  he  became  edi- 
tor and  publisher  of  The  Beverly  Hills 
Citizen.  "I  knew  the  owner,"  he  recalls. 
"It  was  predestined  that  I  was  to  buy  it." 

In  1936,  Will  took  a  leave  of  absence 
from  the  paper  and  went  to  Spain  for 
three  months  to  cover  the  Spanish  Civil 
War  as  a  correspondent  for  the  McNaught 
Newspaper  Syndicate.  In  1941,  he  mar- 
ried Collier  Connell,  whom  he  had  met 
while  working  on  The  Stanford  Daily. 
(She  was  editor  of  the  woman's  page.) 
In  1942,  he  enlisted  in  the  Army  as  a 
private,  attended  officers  training  school, 
and  was  commissioned  a  second  lieuten- 
ant. In  November  of  that  year,  he  was 
elected  Democratic  representative  from 
California's  Sixteenth  Congressional  Dis- 
trict. Since  he  was  still  in  the  Army,  the 
election  campaign  was  conducted  by 
friends.  In  January,  1943,  Will  got  a 
leave  from  active  duty  and  took  his  seat 
in  the  House  of  Representatives. 

In  the  summer  of  1944,  he  resigned 
from  Congress  to  resume  active  duty. 
Assigned  to  the  814th  Tank  Destroyer 
Battalion,  Will  was  part  of  the  Seventh 
Armored  Division  which  crossed  Europe 
on  the  heels  of  the  German  Army.  Dur- 
ing the  last  days  of  World  War  II,  he 
suffered  a  shrapnel  wound  while  head- 
ing a  platoon  in  the  Ruhr  Valley. 

In  1947,  he  was  separated  from  the 
service  as  a  first  lieutenant  and  returned 
to  manage  his  newspaper.  Five  years 
later,  he  took  a  leave  of  absence  to  act 
in  "The  Will  Rogers  Story."  It  proved  to 
be  a  turning  point.  "Before  this,"  Will 
says,  "I  had  made  public  speeches,  but 
never  done  any  acting.  From  then  on, 
my  career  has  been  primarily  theatrical." 

In  1953,  he  sold  The  Beverly  Hills  Citi- 
zen and  returned  to  Hollywood  to  film 
"The  Boy  From  Oklahoma."  Then,  from 
July,    1953,    until    the    following    January, 


he  did  a  short  series  for  CBS  Radio 
called  Rogers  Of  The  Gazette.  He  also 
appeared  in  a  few  television  shows— 
Schlitz  Playhouse  Of  Stars,  Ford  Theater, 
and  the  Ed  Sullivan  show. 

But  mostly,  during  this  period  of  his 
life,  Will  was  living  in  what  amounted  to 
semi-retirement.  Thanks  to  the  Rogers 
Company,  a  real-estate  company  which 
also  handles  his  father's  estate,  he  had 
"the  advantage  of  security."  And  he  had 
time — time  to  read,  to  think,  and  to  live 
with  his  family. 

"We're  quite  close,"  Will  says  of  his 
family,  which  includes  three  boys — 
Randy,  18;  Clem,  17;  and  Carl,  4 — whom 
he  and  Collier  have  adopted.  They  live 
a  simple,  outdoor  kind  of  life,  alternating 
"between  Malibu  and  the  desert."  Their 
house  at  Malibu  Beach  is  "right  on  the 
ocean"  in  Santa  Monica,  California.  "It's 
not  large,"  Will  says,  "but  it's  nice  and 
pleasant." 

And  then  the  Rogers'  have  another 
home  at  29  Palms,  a  little  desert  town 
near  Palm  Springs.  Twice  each  week, 
Will  used  to  drive  to  Beverly  Hills  to  see 
how  things  were  going  at  the  Rogers 
Company.  Otherwise,  he  was  free  to 
do  what  he  liked — play  volleyball  with 
the  boys,  go  swimming  with  his  wife,  or 
even  accompany  the  Governor  of  Okla- 
homa to  New  York  for  the  world  premiere 
of  "Oklahoma!" 

And  that's  when  it  happened.  .  .  . 

Ever  since  1952,  when  NBC  proved  with 
Today  that  the  public  is  ready  and  eager 
for  television — even  at  seven  in  the 
morning— CBS  has  been  trying  to  com- 
pete with  a  show  of  its  own.  But  NBC 
had  not  only  gotten  there  first,  it  had 
gotten  there  with  the  most — for  it  had 
Dave   Garroway. 

Last  fall,  however,  CBS  decided  to  try 
again.  A  group  of  its  top  executives 
held  a  meeting  to  map  strategy.  "What  we 
need,"  they  decided,  "is  primarily  a  pro- 
gram built  around  a  strong,  warm,  'old- 
chew' personality."  This  didn't  mean  that 
he  actually  had  to  chew  cut-plug,  of 
course.  It  merely  meant  he  had  to  be  a 
real  character — lovable  and  unspoiled — 
down-to-earth,  full  of  homespun  philoso- 
phy and  folksy  good  humor — you  know, 
exactly  like  Arthur  Godfrey,  only  com- 
pletely different. 

CBS  was  asking  for  the  impossible,  but 
that's  how  television  shows  are  made. 
They  found  their  man  that  very  night. 
Louis  G.  Cowan,  who  originated  The  $64,- 

000  Question,  was  sitting  in  front  of  his 
television  set,  watching  an  interview  pro- 
gram conducted  by  Hy  Gardner,  the  Man- 
hattan columnist.  One  of  his  guests  was 
Will  Rogers,  Jr.,  in  town  to  attend  that 
aforementioned   premiere   of   "Oklahoma!" 

And  that's  how  it  happened.  .  .  . 

When  CBS  told  Will  about  their  new 
early-morning  show,  he  reminded  them: 
"It's  like  opening  another  newspaper  in 
a  town  that  already  has  one."  But  then 
he  grinned,  for  this  was  "the  kind  of 
challenge  I  gladly  accept."  Only  he  didn't 
sign  up  with  CBS  then  and  there.  He 
wanted  to  talk  it  over  with  his  family. 

"No  one  at  home  wanted  me  to  take 
this   job,"   he   recalls.   "I   like   New   York. 

1  used  to  visit  my  dad  when  he  was  living 
at  the  Astor  Hotel.  But  the  rest  of  the 
family  doesn't  care  for  the  East.  My  two 
older  boys  complained  that  they  didn't 
have  any  girl  friends  in  New  York." 

Will,  however,  wanted  the  job.  "After 
living  on  the  desert,"  he  says,  "I  wanted 
to  get  back  in  the  swim  of  things  again." 
And  so,  on  February  20,  CBS-TV 
launched     Good     Morning!,     "a     program 


built  around  the  strong,  warm  person- 
ality" of  Will  Rogers,  Jr.  It  may  not  be 
"old-chew,"  but  it's  just  about  the  sim- 
plest, friendliest,  most  refreshing  pro- 
gram on  television  today. 

For  one  thing,  there  are  no  gadgets  on 
it — none  of  the  clocks  and  elaborate  tech- 
nical equipment  that  are  the  trademark 
of  Today,  NBC-TV's  competing  show. 
"I'm  opposed  to  a  mechanical  civiliza- 
tion," Will  says,  "and  glad  when  the  ma- 
chines don't  work." 

He  is  also  opposed  to  what  he  calls  "the 
big  city  attitude"  in  so  many  programs 
emanating  from  New  York.  He  hopes  to 
"travel  the  program  more,  mentally  if  not 
physically,  striking  out  into  the  Midwest. 

"I  don't  come  from  a  homespun  back- 
ground," he  admits,  "and  my  training 
hasn't  been  traditional.  But  that's  where 
I  feel  most  at  home — in  the  Midwest.  I 
went  to  school  in  Claremore,  Oklahoma, 
you  know." 

And  that's  why  you  never  see  anything 
fancy  or  arty  on  the  show.  For  Will,  as 
for  his  father:  "A  thing  has  to  work.  Dad 
was  a  very  wise  person,  and  not  easily 
taken  in.  At  a  very  early  age,  I  acquired 
this  same  show-me  attitude." 

As  for  his  own  daily  stint,  Will  doesn't 
think  of  it  as  acting.  He's  just  being  him- 
self, talking  the  way  he  thinks.  For  ex- 
ample, Will  is  philosophically  a  religious 
person,  concerned  about  ethics.  And  so, 
on  the  program,  he  finds  himself  remind- 
ing people  to  be  good  and  to  be  kind. 

"And  how  are  people  uplifted?"  Will 
has  done  a  lot  of  thinking  about  that, 
which  explains  how  he  happened  to  start 


his  readings  from  the  Bible.  "It's  not  a 
gimmick,"  he  says.  "It's  just  a  good  thing 
to  do  in  the  morning — makes  people  feel 
better."  Apparently,  a  lot  of  other  Amer- 
icans also  think  it's  a  good  thing  to  do, 
for  the  mail  poured  in  from  thirty-six 
states  requesting  more  Bible  readings. 

But  Will  knows  that  inspirational  read- 
ings alone  are  not  enough.  "People,"  he 
insists,  "must  have  a  spiritual  retreat  and 
look  at  something  bigger  than  themselves. 
If  they  can't  lose  themselves  in  God,  then 
at  least  they  must  contemplate  some 
thought — some  concept — that's  bigger  than 
themselves." 

If  Will  has  outgrown  the  cynicism  of 
the  Depression  generation  and  found  his 
own  faith,  it's  because  he's  been  luckier 
than  most:  "I've  had  the  advantage  of  not 
being  under  daily  pressure.  Particularly 
during  those  years  in  the  desert,"  he  re- 
calls, "I  had  time  to  take  matters  slowly. 
Above  all,  I  had  time  to  read." 

Ironically  enough,  it  has  taken  him  a 
lifetime  of  searching  to  find  the  same 
eternal  truths  his  father  was  born  know- 
ing. But  because  he  has  found  them  for 
himself,  it  may  be  that  he  has  as  much 
to  say  to  his  own  generation  as  his  father 
had  to  his.  And  it  is  significant  that 
Will,  Jr.,  has  ended  up  with  substantially 
the  same  job  as  Will  Rogers,  Sr.  The 
mediums  may  be  different,  but  now  the 
son  is  "doing  a  daily  column"  on  televi- 
sion— just  as  his  father  once  did  for  news- 
papers. 

And  it's  no  accident  that  he's  meeting 
with  the  same  warmhearted  response 
from  the  public. 


Memories  Are  Made  of  This 


(Continued  from  page  36) 
every  Tuesday  night.  Everything  in 
George's  background  helped  prepare  him 
for  this  show.  A  love  of  music,  and  a 
home  in  which  music  was  part  of  every- 
one's life.  A  love  of  people,  and  a  curios- 
ity about  them.  A  love  of  children,  which 
makes  the  children's  segment  of  Name 
That   Tune   one   of  his   favorites. 

George's  small  son — called  "J"  (for 
Junior),  a  nickname  that  has  somehow 
lengthened  in  spelling  to  "Jay" — is  a  stur- 
dy, handsome  youngster,  two  years  old 
last  May  24,  and  the  love  of  his  daddy's 
life.  Jay  is  his  grandmother's  boy,  too, 
because  Lucy  Florentine,  George's  mother, 
takes  care  of  him.  (George  is  divorced 
from  Jay's  mother,  and  the  little  boy 
spends  a  great  deal  of  time  with  him  and 
Lucy.)  Like  his  daddy,  he  seems  born 
to  entertain  and  to  make  people  laugh  and 
be  happy.  He  looks  like  George,  al- 
though his  hair  is  brown  and  his  eyes 
hazel-gray,  in  contrast  to  the  striking 
blackness  of  his  father's  hair  and  eyes. 

George's  memories  of  his  own  child- 
hood home  are  bound  up  with  music  and 
laughter  and  sociability.  He  was  born  in 
Atlantic  City,  New  Jersey,  the  seaside 
resort  town,  where  his  father  served  on 
the  police  force.  He  remembers  that  his 
mother  went  around  the  house  singing, 
that  his  two  sisters  and  his  brother  were 
always  interested  in  music,  and  that  there 
was  hardly  a  time  when  someone  wasn't 
playing  the  piano  or  strumming  a  ukulele 
or  listening  to  records  or  the  radio.  And 
there  were  always  people  coming  and  go- 
ing— the  children's  friends,  their  parents' 
friends.     It  was  a  hospitable  home. 

"I  could  see  where  George  was  heading, 
from  the  time  he  was  a  little  boy,"  his 
mother  says.  "He  loved  music,  he  had  a 
nice  voice,  he  was  a  born  mimic,  and  he 
was  crazy  about  show  business.  I  sent 
him  to  dancing  school  when  he  was  eight, 
to  learn  tap.    He  didn't  really  want  to  go 


— I  guess  he  thought  it  was  'sissy' — but  he 
knew  if  he  wanted  to  be  a  performer,  he 
had  to  learn  a  lot  of  things.  He  studied 
the  clarinet  (but  hated  to  practice), 
learned  the  piano,  the  sax  and  the  uke, 
and  can  play  almost  any  instrument." 

"We  kids  always  did  imitations  at 
home,"  George  explains  his  beginnings  as 
a  performer.  "Impressions  of  the  way  the 
other  members  of  the  family  walked  and 
talked,  and  the  way  the  people  we  all 
knew    acted,    and    the    things    they    said." 

"Yes,"  Lucy  adds,  "and  George  would 
be  able  to  imitate  all  the  little  manner- 
isms you  didn't  realize  people  had — until 
you  saw  him  doing  one  of  his  'impres- 
sions' of  them.  The  whole  family  would 
sit  around  and  laugh.  When  he  took  a 
job  as  a  singing  waiter  in  one  of  the  res- 
taurants in  Atlantic  City,  before  he  worked 
his  way  up  to  singing  with  bands,  he 
would  come  home  and  imitate  everyone 
who  came  into  the  place.  He  had  been 
in  children's  shows  on  the  Atlantic  City 
Steel  Pier  since  he  was  a  little  fellow,  so 
he  was  really  in  show  business,  you  might 
say,  most  of  his  life.  It  wouldn't  have 
been  any  use  to  try  to  discourage  him. 
He  just  had  that  love  for  it." 

Twice,  his  love  for  show  business  and 
for  adventure  made  George  leave  home 
and  try  his  fortunes  elsewhere.  Once,  he 
hitch-hiked  to  Hollywood,  sure  that  he 
was  going  to  have  a  greater  career  in  the 
movies.  He  was  far  too  young,  and  too 
inexperienced,  and  nothing  came  of  it. 
A  second  time,  he  hitch-hiked  to  Miami 
Beach,  Florida,  arriving  with  thirty-two 
cents  in  his  pocket.  That  time,  too,  he 
■was  glad  to  get  back  home.  Certainly  he 
was  happy  at  home,  and  carefree,  and  he 
loved  his  folks.  But,  by  now,  Atlantic 
City  was  becoming  too  small  to  encom- 
pass an  ambitious  boy's  dreams. 

Continuing  restless  and  adventurous,  he 
joined  the  Norwegian  Merchant  Marine  at 
seventeen.    And    when    Canada    got    into 


New!  Clearasil  Medication 

STARVES 
PIMPLES 

SKIN-COLORED . . .  hidespimples while  itworks 


DOCTORS'  TESTS  PROVE 
9  out  of  10  cases  cleared  up 

. .  or  definitely  improved 


Doctors'  clinical  tests  prove  this  new-type  medi- 
cation especially  for  pimples  really  works.  In 
skin  specialists'  tests  on  202  patients,  9  out  of 
every  10  cases  were  cleared  up  or  definitely  im- 
proved while  using  clearasil. 
Amazing  starving  action,  clearasil  actu- 
ally starves  pimples  because  it  helps  remove  the 
oils  that  pimples  "feed"  on.  And  clearasil's 
antiseptic  action  stops  the  growth  of  bacteria 
that  can  cause  and  spread  pimples.  Skin-colored 
to  hide  pimples  and  end  embarrassment.  Grease- 
less,  stainless . . .  pleasant  to  leave  on  day  and 
night  for  uninterrupted  medication. 
America's  largest-selling  specific  pimple 
medication... because  clearasil  has  helped  so 
many  boys,  girls  and  adults.  GUARANTEED 
to  work  for  you  as  it  did  in  doctors'  tests  or 
money  back.  Only  69#  and  98tf.  At  all  druggists- 
Get  clearasil  today. 

V_  1 C  <X  I'<\  S 1 Y*"  Guaranteed  by  °*A 
I  Good  Housekeeping; 


Now  also  available  in  Canada 


Chi-Ches-Ters 


turn 

"problem"  days  J 

into 

party  days. 


No  need  to  miss  good 
times  because  of 
functional  menstrual 
distress— when  you 
can  get  such  wonder- 
ful quick  and  lasting 
relief  from  pain, 
cramps,  nervous  ten- 
sion and  headache 

with  Chi-Ches-Ters.  There's  nothing  like  them— in 
doctors'  tests  9  out  of  10  women  got  wonderful  re- 
lief beyond  expectations.  Try  this  fast-acting  pre- 
scription-like formula.  Your  money  back  if  not 
satisfied.  Purse  Pak  50£.  Economy  Sizes  $1.15  and 
$2.25.  At  your  drug  store,  or  we  will  fill  direct  orders. 

FREE — Illustrated  booklet  of  intimate  facts 
every  woman  should  know.  Mailed  in  plain 
wrapper.  Write  today!  Chichester  Chemical 
Company,  Dept.  7-S,        Philadelphia  46,  Pa. 


91 


Beautiful  LIPS 


Liquid   Liptone    can't   smear! 
kissable!   Instantly  gives  to 
lips  heavenly  color  that 
really  can't  smear.  Makes 
the  sweetest  kiss  because 
it  leaves  no  mark  on  him. 
If  you  wear  Cream  Lipstick 
brush  on  CLEAR  (colorless)  Liq- 
uid Liptone  over  your  lip  make-i 
smearproof.     But    whether    you 
Liquid  or  Cream  Lipstick,  be  sure  it's 
Princess  Pat.  You'll  allure  in  romance-         $1 .00 
hued  lip  color;  really  stays  on!  plus  tax 


LIQUID  LIPTONE 

PRINCESS    PAT,   2709  S.WELLS  ST.  CHICAGO  16,  ILL 


1  flnfl  PICTURES  OF         | 

J  I  UUU   MOVIE  &  T.V.  STARS 


0.1  J  j  Scene  from  latest  Picture  & 
II"  5  Movie  Stars  on  gum  stamps 
►  lUCKr  STARS  G  F  0  Bo.  N.Y.  1.  N.Y.  Kept  T-3 


tSSOfr 


Your  Child's  Photo 


Thousands  of  dollars  paid  by  advertisers  (or 
children's  photos  for  calendars,  magazines; 
(age  6  mo.  to  18  yrs. )  This  child  among  the  lucky  ones; 
your  child  has  same  chance.  Send  ONE  small  photo.  Print 
child's  &  parents'  name  &  address  on  back,  returned  30  days 
with  judges'  report.  No  obligation.  (Established  1945) 
SP0TLITE,  Dept.  AG,  1611  N.  LaBrea,  Hollywood,  Cal. 


Tiny  BURNS 

MAY    LEAVE 

Lifetime  Scars 


Apply  fast  4-Way 
All  Around  Help 

Soothing,  cooling 
OIL-O-SOL  for  mi- 
nor burns.  Helps; 
ease  pain;  fight  in- 
fection: prevent 
blisters;  speed  com- 
forting healing. 
AT  YOUR  DRUGGIST 


MOSSO'S 


Sell  Biggest  Bargainsin  CHRISTMAS  CARDS 


SEND 

FOR 

AMPlfj 


I 


Name. 


While  they  last,  get  fine  Christinas  and  Every- 
day Assortments  at  factory  closeout  prices !  SI. 
boxes  as  low  as  35c;  lovely  $1.25  assortments 
only  60c.  Friends  buy  on  sight,  pay  you  biggest 
profits.  Noexperience  needed.  Over  200  brand  new 
Assortments— the  latest  in  TALL  cards.  Name- 
Imprinted  Cards  and  Stationery,  Gifts  and  Novelties.  Get 
Assortments  on  approval:  Imprints  Album,  Color  Catalog 
and  Barjrain  list  FREE.    Mail  coapon  or  postcard  NOW  t 

BOULEVARD  ART  PUBLISHERS,  Dept.558-  K  ' 
235  South  Wabash  Ave.,  Chicago  4,  III.  I 

I 

|    Full  Address. .   I 

Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 
New  Way  Without  Surgery 

Science  Finds  Healing  Substance  That 
Relieves  Pain— Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 

For  the  first  time  science  has  found  a 
new  healing  substance  with  the  astonishing 
ability  to  shrink  hemorrhoids  and  to  relieve 
pain  —  without  surgery. 

In  case  after  case,  while  gently  relieving 
pain,  actual  reduction  (shrinkage)  took 
place. 

Most  amazing  of  all  —  results  were  so 
thorough  that  sufferers  made  astonishing 
statements  like  "Piles  have  ceased  to  be  a 
problem!" 

_  The    secret   is   a   new   healing   substance 

(Bio-Dyne*)  — discovery  of  a  world-famous 

*        research  institute. 

II  This   substance  is  now  available  in   sup- 

pository or  ointment  form  under  the  name 
Preparation  H*  Ask  for  it  at  all  drug  count- 
ers—money back  guarantee.     *Beg.  U.  S.  P»t.  Off. 

92 


World  War  II,  shortly  after  that,  George 
entered  the  Royal  Canadian  Air  Force, 
later  transferring  to  our  own  Army  Air 
Force  when  the  United  States  got  into  the 
war.  He  had  the  rank  of  second  lieu- 
tenant, flew  USO  troupes  in  both  the  Eu- 
ropean and  Pacific  theaters  of  war,  dou- 
bled as  an  entertainer,  and  continued  as  a 
civilian  USO  entertainer  when  he  got  out 
of  service.  Later,  he  went  into  the  night 
clubs  and  the  big  movie  houses,  and 
there  is  hardly  any  important  club  or  ca- 
sino or  movie  house,  in  any  big  city,  where 
he  has  not  appeared.  He  also  began  to 
do  guest  spots  on  big  radio  and  TV  shows. 
George's  father  was  ill  during  the  last 
couple  of  years  his  boys  were  in  service, 
and  his  one  prayer  had  been  to  live  until 
they  came  home.  He  did,  for  almost  a 
year  following.  By  this  time,  George  had 
traveled  a  great  deal  of  the  world  and  had 
fallen  in  love  with  Italy,  where  he  had 
gone  first  in  the  merchant  marine  and 
which  he  later  re-visited,  hoping  one  day 
to  spend  more  time  there.  The  oppor- 
tunity came  to  play  some  of  the  famous 
night  clubs  in  Rome,  and  to  live  in  that 
city  for  a  while,  meeting  many  of  the  per- 
formers he  had  always  admired — movie 
stars  like  Humphrey  Bogart  and  Lauren 
Bacall,  Pierre  Aumont,  Orson  Welles. 
Bergman  was  there.  And  Lollobrigida. 
Just  as  an  opportunity  came  along  for  him 
to  make  a  movie  in  Italy,  he  had  decided 
to  return  to  America. 

Once  more,  he  went  down  to  Miami 
Beach,  and  this  time  he  thought  that  was 
it,  as  far  as  he  was  concerned.  It  had 
everything.  Climate.  Night  clubs,  where 
he  was  a  popular  performer.  A  local  TV 
daytime  show  of  his  own  which  was  doing 
well.  Opportunities  to  guest  on  other 
shows.  The  chance  to  swim  and  to  sun, 
to  play  tennis.  The  beach  and  an  outdoor 
life  for  little  Jay,  whenever  he  could  be 
brought  down  to  visit. 

Then  Steve  Allen  brought  his  Tonight 
television  show  to  Miami  Beach  for  a 
week  or  two,  to  originate  from  an  ocean- 
front  hotel.  George  got  together  with 
Steve,  helped  him  get  some  of  the  local 
acts  for  the  show,  and  appeared  on  it 
himself,  doing  his  impressions  and  songs 
and  comedy.  One  night,  on  camera,  he 
backed  too  close  to  the  pool  at  the  hotel 
and  fell  in,  making  a  splash  from  coast  to 
coast.  Before  the  week  was  over,  offers 
began  to  come  from  New  York — from  pro- 
ducers who  were  reminded,  perhaps  rath- 
er forcibly,  that  here  was  a  talent  which 
shouldn't  be  confined  to  one  local  spot. 
His  dream  of  living  an  easier,  more  casual 
life  in  Florida  changed  overnight. 

George  came  up  to  New  York  to  accept 
one  offer,  a  guest  spot  on  a  CBS  variety 
show,  and  the  network  signed  him  up  for 
a  summer  show  then  in  the  planning  stage. 
That  particular  program  never  did  get  off 
the  drafting  board,  but  George  began  to 
develop  some  ideas  of  his  own,  good  ideas 
which  always  seemed  to  wind  up  being 
done  by  other  performers.  Finally,  his 
own  turn  came.  Name  That  Tune  needed 
an  emcee  with  George's  own  qualifications. 
On  it,  he  has  a  chance  to  sing  the  "song 
clues"  and  to  ad  lib  with  contestants  (the 
show  has  no  script),  to  make  everybody 
feel  at  home  and  to  keep  the  fun  rolling. 

Some  of  his  best  performances,  how- 
ever, are  done  for  an  audience  of  one.  For 
Jay,  he  puts  on  impromptu  programs  in- 
volving a  dummy  named  Claude  and  a 
ventriloquism  act.  He  picked  Claude  up 
in  one  of  those  antique  stores  he  likes  to 
haunt — this  time,  when  he  was  playing 
Chicago — and,  by  now,  has  developed 
some  very  funny  routines  with  the  dum- 
my, including  imitations  of  great  perform- 
ers like  Senor  Wences.  Jay,  too,  does 
imitations — a  Ted  Lewis  soft-shoe  bit,  in 


top  hat,  to  the  tune  of  "When  My  Baby 
Smiles  at  Me."  For  a  Liberace  bit,  Jay's 
small  hands  beat  the  toy  piano,  adorned 
suitably  with  candelabra,  and  the  toothy 
grin  he  bestows  on  his  audience  from  time 
to  time  brings  down  the  house. 

The  newly-rented,  newly-decorated 
midtown  apartment  which  George  main- 
tains in  New  York  is  a  penthouse  across 
from  Central  Park,  and  it  also  reflects 
the  influences  of  his  growing-up  days  in 
Atlantic  City.  Back  in  those  days,  he 
loved  to  haunt  the  Boardwalk  auction 
shops  and  would  often  walk  up  in  the 
middle  of  an  auction  and  help  sell.  Every- 
thing he  saw  interested  him,  and  he 
dreamed  of  owning  things  like  them, 
someday  when  he  had  a  home  of  his  own. 

1  he  little  apartment  is  rich  in  color  and 
pattern  now,  and  filled  with  graceful  old 
pieces,  many  of  them  renovated  and  re- 
stored by  George  personally.  What  was 
once  the  cot  of  a  Civil  War  general  is  now 
a  stunning  white  and  gold  wrought-iron 
divan,  upholstered  in  black  and  white 
striped  ticking  with  bolsters  and  pillows 
to  match,  and  piled  with  extra  cushions 
in  bright  colors.  An  Empire  settee  and 
two  matching  chairs  are  antiquated  in  gold 
and  white  and  cushioned  in  pale  gold  vel- 
vet. A  large  Empire  cabinet  will  house 
the  hi-fi  and  tape  recorder,  an  amusing 
blending  of  old  and  new.  A  hand-hewn 
chest  brought  back  from  Italy  on  one  of 
his  trips —  "like  the  one  my  mother  had 
when  she  was  married."  A  clock  with  the 
date  of  its  make — 1756 — on  the  face,  a 
wonderful  piece  with  iron  ornamentation 
on  a  wood  base,  a  crowing  cock  on  the 
top,  and  a  chime  that  rings  melodiously 
after  two  centuries  of  service. 

The  bedroom  is  Empire,  too,  with  a  fine 
old  brass  bed.  Jay's  nursery  is  light  and 
bright,  with  lots  of  wardrobe  and  shelf 
room  for  a  small  boy's  belongings.  There 
are  plants  everywhere  in  the  apartment, 
in  window  boxes,  on  sills — and  a  huge 
camellia  blooming  in  a  pot  in  one  corner 
of  the  living  room.  There  are  interesting 
ornaments,  such  as  a  handsome  silver  pea- 
cock. Paintings.  A  cherub  entwined 
with  garlands  of  flowers — obviously  a 
segment  of  an  old  mural — hangs  over  the 
living-room  divan.  An  oil  painting  of  a 
dark-haired  Italian  woman,  lovely  in  color 
and  mood,  is  inscribed  with  affection  to 
some  long-forgotten  lady  by  its  artist. 
There  are  framed  drawings,  a  fragment 
from  a  Michelangelo  frieze,  European 
street  scenes.  All  the  things  which  George 
has  picked  up  in  his  travels  in  this  coun- 
try and  abroad  and  collected  lovingly, 
trying  to  find  out  everything  he  could 
about  their  history. 

"When  I  draw  the  curtains  I  shut  out 
New  York  and  the  world,"  George  says. 
"It's  wonderful,  how  calm  and  quiet  it  can 
be,  here  above  the  noise  and  excitement." 

Yet,  down  there  is  that  other  part  of 
George  de  Witt's  life — the  life  of  show 
business  and  excitement  for  which  he  was 
destined  on  that  day  of  December  20, 
1922,  when  he  was  born  in  Atlantic  City. 
The  life  he  loves  and  feels  at  home  in. 
And  less  than  a  mile  away  from  the  tow- 
ering building  where  he  lives  is  the  sym- 
bol of  that  life,  the  studio  from  which 
Name   That  Tune  is  broadcast. 

"I  emceed  many  types  of  shows  before 
Name  That  Tune,"  he  says,  "but  never 
one  with  $25,000  at  stake.  It's  quite  a 
thrill.  I  have  learned  a  lot  from  Harry 
Salter,  who  plans  and  produces  the  pro- 
gram and  directs  the  music.  And  I  have 
learned  a  lot  from  the  contestants,  those 
wonderfully  warm  and  charming  people. 
Without  them,  there  would  be  no  show." 

Memories  are  made  of  this.  And  George 
is  busy  building — and  keeping — the  mem- 
ories that  count  most. 


Mr.  Average  American 


(Continued  from  page  54) 
him  to  be  a  singer.  But,  more  than  that, 
she  wanted  him  to  be  an  announcer.  'They 
seem  to  be  nicer  people,'  she  said,  'and  the 
work  is  steadier.'  Gordon's  mother  had  a 
dreadful  fear  of  his  becoming  'tempera- 
mental.' She  used  to  say,  'Now  let's  not 
have  any  of  this  nonsense.  I  don't  like 
actors  who  put  on  silly  airs  and  act 
temperamental — it's  90%  temper  and  10% 
mental.' " 

Gordon's  mother  wanted  to  keep  him  as 
average  as  possible,  and  fought  against 
what  she  felt  was  every  actor's  bohemian 
attitude.  She  used  to  say,  "Gordon,  for 
goodness'  sake,  don't  let  your  hair  grow 
long  in  the  back."  And  she  insisted  that 
her  show-business  son  wear  conservative 
clothes,  gloves,  black  topcoats  and  black 
homburg  hats. 

"Later,  on  the  road  with  Horace  Heidt," 
Sheila  says,  "when  Gordon  stepped  off 
the  stage,  he  looked  more  like  an  average 
business  man  than  part  of  a  popular  young 
quartette.  Mrs.  MacRae  always  wanted 
Gordie  to  be  an  average  person.  She  was 
afraid  that  entertainers  lived  a  rather 
narrow  life,  and  when  we  were  traveling 
on  the  road  she  wrote  long  letters  de- 
scribing the  cultural  highlights  of  the  cities 
we  visited. 

"As  a  result  of  his  exposure  to  a  few 
museums  (we  didn't  go  to  all  of  them)," 
Sheila  continues,  "Gordon  has  an  av- 
erage smattering  of  culture,  interests  and 
tastes.  For  example,  his  reactions  to  the 
shows  I  write  are  unerring.  He  knows 
what  the  audience  will  like.  In  actual  fact, 
Gordon  has  nothing  to  do  with  the  prep- 
aration of  the  show.  He  hates  to  see  the 
wheels  working.  He  plays  the  part  of  the 
audience.  We  show  him  a  completed 
script,  and  we  can  tell  by  his  reaction 
whether  or  not  we  have  a  good  show." 

Since  considerably  more  than  half  the 
married  women  in  this  country  work, 
having  a  "working  wife"  is  just  another 
of  the  identifying  features  which  make 
Gordon  MacRae  an  average  American. 
"Gordon  and  I  have  worked  together  ever 
since  we  were  married,"  says  Sheila.  "For 
example,  when  Gordie  was  with  Horace 
Heidt,  I  played  a  number  of  different 
parts  on  the  radio  show.  Gordon  sang  in 
the  quartet,  and  Ollie  O'Toole  and  I  did 
the  voices  and  acted  out  all  the  songs  they 
sang. 

"Then,  when  Gordon  was  stationed  in 
Texas  with  the  Air  Corps,  I  went  to  work 
on  a  local  radio  station  to  augment  our 
income.  I  worked  first  as  a  newscaster, 
then  as  a  disc  jockey.  I  even  wrote  some 
of  the  programs.  I'm  sure  the  station 
manager  considered  me  the  oddest  writer 
he  ever  hired — because  I  carried  our 
baby,  Meredith,  to  work  every  day  in  a 
basket." 

Gordon  came  out  of  the  Army  and 
returned  to  CBS  for  a  job.  According  to 
the  law,  every  ex-GI  was  to  be  returned 
to  the  job  he  had  left.  Wendell  Adams, 
the  radio  executive  Gordon  approached, 
said,  "We'll  be  happy  to  pay  you,  Gor- 
don, but  we  haven't  a  spot  open  right 
now."  Gordon  replied,  "I  don't  want  the 
money,  I  want  the  work."  But  Mr.  Adams 
insisted,  "We  have  Perry  Como,  Jack 
Smith,  two  girl  singers,  only  fifteen  min- 
utes of  sustaining  time,  and  no  new  show 
ideas.     There's  just  no  place." 

"Gordon  wasn't  discouraged,"  says 
Sheila.  "We  were  living  with  my  mother 
in  New  York  and,  when  he  came  home 
and  told  me  the  problem,  I  said,  'Maybe 
we  could  use  one  of  the  programs  I  did 
in  Texas.  If  we  change  it  around  a  bit, 
we'll  have  a  whole  new  show  idea.' 


"  'Good.  We'll  go  in  tomorrow,'  Gor- 
don said  enthusiastically,  'and  talk  to 
Adams  about  it.' 

"We  came  into  the  office,"  continues 
Sheila,  "told  Mr.  Adams  the  idea  and  he 
said,  'Fine.  Our  President,  Mr.  Paley,  is 
in  his  office.  Let's  do  it  for  him  now.'  I 
was  shocked.  'No,'  I  said.  'We  can't  do 
it  now.  I  ...  I  haven't  even  written  it 
down.'  But  Gordon,  forever  courageous, 
said,  'Sure  we  can.    We'll  ad-lib  it.' 

"Wendell  Adams  backed  him  up,  say- 
ing, 'Gordon's  right,  Sheila.  This  is  the 
perfect  opportunity.  Let  me  call  Mr. 
Paley  and  have  him  tune  you  in.'  So, 
against  my  will,  I  finally  agreed  and  we 
went  down  to  the  audition  studio. 

"When  you  auditioned  in  radio,  the 
powers-that-be  sat  twenty  floors  above 
you  with  their  inter-coms  on.  If  they 
liked  you,  they  kept  you  on.  If  they 
didn't,  off  you  went.  When  Gordon  and 
I  walked  into  that  small  studio  with  a 
microphone  but  no  piano,  I  said,  'Gordon, 
how  are  you  going  to  sing?'  And  he  an- 
swered, 'Don't  worry  about  the  singing 
part,  just  keep  talking.' 

"Well,  I  was  a  wreck.  I  tried  to  re- 
member some  of  my  Texas  material,  but 
to  this  day  I  can't  remember  a  word  I 
said.  But  Gordon,  even  without  accom- 
paniment, sang  just  beautifully.  We  made 
a  joke  about  it  at  the  end  and  signed  off 
after  about  twenty  minutes.  Wendell 
Adams  came  in  and  said,  'You  kids  go 
down  to  Colbee's  for  coffee.  I  will  let 
you  know — maybe  they  listened  and 
maybe  they  didn't.'  So  we  ordered  coffee, 
but  I  was  too  nervous  to  drink  it.  I  told 
Gordon  I  was  worried  because  some 
executives  didn't  like  to  sign  husband- 
and-wife  writer -performer  teams.  Some 
people  think  that  if  you  are  related, 
you  can't  hold  up  your  end  of  the 
business.  He  said,  'Don't  worry,  every- 
thing's going  to  come  out  all  right.'  Gor- 
don just  never  worries.  He  needn't  have, 
for  Wendell  came  in  a  few  minutes  later, 
saying,  'Mr.  Paley  said,  'Sign  the  girl, 
sign  the  writer,  and  sign  the  singer!' 

As  Gordon's  confidence  paid  off  then, 
it  paid  off  with  our  current  TV  show,  too. 
But,  as  much  courage  as  he  has,  I  am 
equally  high  on  imagination,  the  kind  of 
imagination  that  frequently  manufactures 
problems  where  none  really  exist.  Gor- 
don says  that  I  imagine  what  people  will 
think  before  they  think  it.  So,  when 
Gordon  first  brought  up  the  subject,  I 
didn't  want  to  be  the  writer  of  the  show. 
I  told  him  I  didn't  know  the  TV  form, 
that  I  would  need  at  least  a  couple  of 
months  to  get  ready.  He  said,  'Don't 
worry  about  the  form — we've  got  all  of 
ten  days.' 

"Even  so,  I  didn't  want  to  be  known 
as  the  writer.  I  said,  T  will  only  do  this 
so  long  as  I  don't  get  any  credit  for  it.' 
Gordon  agreed.  Now  I'm  billed  as  'exec- 
utive  producer,'   instead   of  as   a   writer." 

Like  every  average  family  man,  Gordon 
is  proud  of  his  children:  Meredith  Lynn, 
11,  Heather,  9,  William  Gordon,  7,  and 
Robert  Bruce,  2.  Unlike  some  show- 
business  parents,  both  Gordon  and  Sheila 
agree  that  they  want  their  children  to 
know   everything   about   Gordon's   career. 

"Ever  since  the  children  were  old 
enough  to  carry,  we  have  taken  them  on 
the  sets  and  tried  to  explain  the  work 
their  daddy  does.  We  try  to  show  them 
that  entertainment  is  a  business,  that  it's 
a  difficult  business  and  not  all  glamour. 

"When  Gordon  plays  a  club  date  and 
comes  home  late,  the  children  never  go 
and  bang  on  the  door  in  the  morning — 
and  that  is  more  than  I  can  say  of  some 


" I  found 
the  secret  to 
a  happy  marriage! 


// 


says  Mrs.  David  Rosen  who  now 
uses  ZONITE  to  douche! 

SAFE!  Not  only  women  about-to-be- 
married,  but  also  many  married  women 
wonder  about  douching  for  feminine  hy- 
giene. Mrs.  Rosen  was  married  a  couple  of 
years  before  she  found  out  how  important 
it  was  to  follow  the  proper  method  of 
douching  with  a  fountain  syringe,  using 
an  effective  yet  safe  solution — like  zonite. 
EFFECTIVE!  No  other  type  liquid  antiseptic- 
germicide  for  the  douche  of  all  those  tested 
is  so  powerfully  effective  yet  so  safe  to  body 
tissues  as  zonite. 

HEALTHFUL !  zonite  completely  deodorizes, 
promptly  washes  away  germs  and  odor- 
causing  waste  substances.  A  nurse  once 
advised  Mrs.  Rosen  that  if  any  abnormal 
condition  exists,  she  should  see  her  doctor. 
She  said  he  would  probably  recommend 
that  she  continue  to  use  zonite. 

DAINTY!  You,  too,  can  be  one  of  the  mod- 
ern women  who  welcome  the  "peace  of 
mind"  and  daintiness  that  zonite  gives 
them  after  monthly  periods  and  other 
times.  You  can  use  zonite  as  directed,  as 
often  as  needed,  without  the  slightest  risk 
of  injury.  Costs  only  pennies  per  douche. 


use 


ZONITE 

so  safe  yet 
so  effective! 


RELI 

Toothache 

Denture 

Irritation 

Neuralgic 
Pains 

with  quick-soothing 


NUM-ZIT 

>        ADULT 
STRENGTH 


at  all  drug  counters 

For  baby's  teething  pains, 

ask  for  NUM-ZIT  Teething  Lotion 

Products  of  PUREPAC  Corporation 


93 


ENJOY  A  PERMANENT, 
KB/G  PAY  CAREER  as  a 

i\  PRACTICAL 
NURSE 


EARN  AT  HOME  WHILE  LEARNING 

FREE  SAMPLE  LESSON  shows  how  easily  you  can 
become  a  professionally  trained  practical  nurse 
by  home  study  in  a  short  time.  NO  HIGH 
SCHOOL  NEEDED.   No  age   limit. 

FOR  FREE  LESSON  and 
FULL  INFORMATION 


tfows 


I    Post  Graduate  Hospital 

|  School  of  Nursing 

■   9D76  Auditorium  Bldg. 

I 

I 


Chicago  5.  Illinois 
Name. 


|  Address 

I  City State. 


94 


MATERNITY 
STYLE  CATALOG 


SAVE  MONEY-Shop  by  Mail!  FREE  cata- 
log pictures  hundreds  of  exclusive  ma- 
ternity fashions.  World's  Largest,  Complete 
Selection,  Dresses,  Suits,  Mix  &  Match  Sep- 
arates, Sportswear,  Girdles,  Lingerie;  $2.98 
to  $22.98. Catalog  mailed  in  plain  envelope. 

C  RAWFORD'S 

Dept,  35,  8015  Wornall.Kansas  City  14,Mo. 


HIGH    PAYING    OPPORTUNITIES 

Work  In  fabulous  So.  America,  The  Islands, 
Africa,  TJ.  S.  A.,  or  other  foreign  countries.  All 
Trades,  Labor,  Clerical,  Drivers,  Mechanics, 
Engineers,  etc.  Many  benefits.  Tax-free  earn- 
ings. Chance  to  travel.  Fare  paid  if  hired. 
Make  and  save  a  fortune.  Application  forms. 
Opportunities  for  women  also. 

For  information  Write  Dept.  94V 

NATIONAL  EMPLOYMENT  INFORMATION 

1020  Broad,   Newark,   N.  J. 


i^HIGH  SCHOOLS 


_  No  classes  to  attend.  Easy  spare-time  train- 1 
Hng  covers  big  choice  of  subjects.  Friendly  \ 
1  \  instructors;  standard  texts.  Full  credit  for\ 
I  I  previous  schooling.     Diploma  awarded. \ 
I   I  Write  now  for  FREE  catalog!  I 

f/i  WAYNE   SCHOOL  catalog  HH-36   / 

[  J  2527  Sheffield  Ave.,  Chicago  14,  Illinois/ 


KILL  THE  HAIR  ROOT 


/Destroy  unwanted  hoir  PERMANENTLY.  Use  con-l 
/veniently  at  home.  When  you  have  read  our  T 
/instruction  book  carefully  and  learned  to  use  J 
/the  new  Mahler  Epllator  safely  and  efficiently, 
/then  you  can  remove  unwanted  hair  FOREVER. 
/MONEY-BACK  GUARANTEE  {Our  76th  Year). 


Send  y  TODAY  for  booklet  ■>. 


MAHLER'S,  INC..      DepL  606-H        PROVIDENCE  15.  R.  I. ' 


BLONDE  Hair 

^Comes  to  LIFE 
in  II  Minutef 


At  Home! 


Special  Shampoo 

Brings  Out  the  Shining, 

Radiant  Color  Men  love  I 

Want  to  keep  your  hair  from  getting  dork  and  faded?  Want  to 
restore  its  life  and  lustre — see  it  shades  lighter,  brighter,  shinier — 
at  oncel  Then  use  BLONDEX,  the  new  shampoo  made  specially 
for  blondes,  that  contains  ANDIUM—  shines  and  lightens  as  it  sham. 
poos.  In  just  II  minutes,  its  creamy,  billowy  lather  rinses  away  dingy 
film  that  makes  hair  dark  and  dull,  uncovers  sparkling  highlights 
and  lustre.  Safe  far  children.  Get  BLONDEX  today  at  10c.  drug 
or  department  stores. 


children.  They  understand  his  different 
hours  and  they  accept  them.  When  he 
sleeps  late,  they  are  like  little  mice  and 
they  tiptoe  by  his  closed  door  on  their 
way  to  the  kitchen.  Later,  when  they  are 
dressed  and  Gordon  is  awake,  they  know 
it  is  all  right  to  make  all  the  noise  they 
wish — and  they  do  wish. 

"Like  every  father,"  Sheila  continues, 
"Gordon  plays  beautifully  with  the 
youngsters.  He  and  I  both  know  they 
are  small  for  such  a  little  while,  so  he 
makes  time  for  their  games.  In  the  sum- 
mer we  all  swim  together,  and  last  year 
their  favorite  game  was  'Dragnet'  (cops 
and  robbers) ;  this  year,  it's  'Roy  Rogers' 
(cowboys  and  Indians).  Meredith  is  the 
only  one  with  any  singing  ability  or  musi- 
cal interest.  She  is  studying  piano  and 
even  now  has  a  lovely  operatic  voice. 
But  I  doubt  if  we'll  ever  be  playing  a 
game  called  'The  Gordon  MacRae  Show,' 
since  their  new  favorite  is  not  Daddy  but 
'Sheriff  John'!" 

There  are  certain  sentimental  occa- 
sions in  every  family's  life.    Birthdays  are 


one  of  these  occasions  for  the  MacRaes. 
Gordon,  like  every  average  family  man, 
is  pleased  when  his  family  sets  the  day 
aside  for  a  family  gathering.  But,  re- 
cently, his  thirty-fifth  birthday  fell  on  a 
Monday — his  show  day.  When  young 
Gar  (William  Gordon)  saw  his  daddy  get- 
ting ready  to  leave  the  house  for  work, 
he  said  to  Sheila,  "Is  Daddy  going  to  sing 
today?"  When  she  answered,  "Yes,"  Gar 
exclaimed,  "But  this  is  his  birthday!" 

Gordon,  not  afraid  of  sentiment,  was 
touched  by  his  son's  reaction.  He  looked 
at  Sheila,  saying,  "Shall  we?"  And 
Sheila  said,  "Sure,  why  not?"  And  Gor- 
don, Sheila,  Meredith,  Heather,  William 
Gordon  and  Robert  Bruce  all  gathered  at 
the  studio  for  Gordon's  birthday  show. 

With  his  family  of  five  around  him 
cutting  the  cake,  Gordon's  pride  glowed 
on  15,000,000  television  screens.  Proud  of 
his  family  and  equally  proud  to  be  "just 
an  average  American,"  brown-eyed, 
brown-haired  Gordon  MacRae  is  all 
heart — all  "average"  five-foot-nine,  170 
pounds  of  him! 


Toward  a  Brighter  Day 


(Continued  from  page  63) 
whose  paths  had  not  crossed  his  since 
school  days.  There  are  moments  of  despair 
followed  by  heartwarming  encouragement 
and  practical  assistance.  Blair's  rise  in  the 
theatrical  field  was  not  the  rocket  trip  to 
overnight  stardom  so  often  glorified  in 
"backstage"  scenarios.  Quite  the  contrary. 

When  he  was  fourteen,  Blair  left  his 
home  town  of  Pittsburgh,  Pennsylvania,  to 
join  an  aunt  and  uncle  in  Portland,  Ore- 
gon. "The  Davies  family  moved  to  Oregon 
more  or  less  in  shifts,"  he  explains, 
"grandparents,  aunts  and  uncles,  myself, 
and  finally  my  parents.  There  wasn't  a 
great  deal  of  loose  change  floating  around, 
so  I  went  to  work  as  a  dispatcher  for  the 
Portland  Electric  Power  Company  during 
the  day,  and  finished  my  high- school 
education  at  night  school. 

"During  the  summers,  I  worked  with 
my  uncle  on  the  power  lines.  Being  a  big 
boy  for  my  years — by  the  time  I  was  four- 
teen, I  was  already  almost  six  feet  tall — I 
especially  enjoyed  those  summers  with  my 
uncle  in  Oregon's  great  outdoors.  Today, 
the  best  I  can  manage,  with  my  broad- 
casting schedule,  is  an  occasional  weekend 
visit  with  friends  in  the  country  to  help 
them  with  their  gardening.  At  trans- 
planting trees  I'm  particulary  great!" 

After  graduation  from  night  school, 
Blair  joined  the  Portland  Civic  Theater, 
and  in  the  process  of  doing  any  menial 
jobs  they  might  offer  him,  discovered  the 
career  he  was  to  pursue.  At  this  time, 
there  was  a  well-known  stock  company  in 
Portland  called  the  Henry  Duffy  Players. 
After  a  time  with  the  Portland  Civic 
Theater,  Blair  managed  to  convince  Henry 
Duffy  that  the  thing  he  needed  most  in  the 
chorus  of  his  "No,  No,  Nanette"  produc- 
tion was  the  questionable  singing  voice  of 
one  Blair  Davies.  Three  weeks  in  the  pro- 
duction convinced  this  teenager  that  here 
was  the  life  for  him. 

"As  I  look  back  on  it,"  Blair  muses, 
"this  was  terrific  background.  I  learned  to 
do  just  about  everything  connected  with 
a  theater. 

"Then,  when  I  was  twenty-one,  I 
thought  my  lucky  break  had  finally  hit. 
As  the  result  of  a  role  in  'It's  a  Wise 
Child,'  I  got  a  Universal  Pictures  contract 
and  went  to  Hollywood.  I  don't  really 
know  exactly  what  happened.  Suffice  it 
to  say,  it  was  not  my  lucky  break.  For 
six  months,  I  sat  on  the  lot.  All  I  managed 
to  wangle  was  a  test  with  another  un- 
known .  .  .  Bette  Davis.  It  was  a  scene 


from  'Waterloo  Bridge,'  and  was  the  first 
time  either  one  of  us  had  been  before  the 
camera.  The  result?  Well,  we  were  both 
fired  two  months  later.  If  it  hadn't  been 
for  Henry  Duffy,  I  don't  know  what  I'd 
have  done. 

"At  the  time  I  was  released  from  my 
film  contract,  Mr.  Duffy  was  in  rehearsal 
with  a  revival  of  'Irene.'  Somehow  or 
other  I  managed  to  talk  him  into  believing 
I  could  dance  .  .  .  thereby  getting  a  job  in 
the  chorus  line.  Actually,  I  couldn't  dance 
a  step,  which  soon  became  painfully  ob- 
vious to  the  two  boys  on  either  side  of  me. 
At  the  first  rehearsal  break,  they — John 
Jones  and  Karl  Brigandi — took  me  aside 
and  suggested  that,  if  I'd  stay  out  of  their 
way  for  the  rest  of  that  rehearsal,  they'd 
teach  me  to  dance  'after  hours.'  During 
the  next  three  weeks,  no  two  people  ever 
worked  harder  than  John  and  Karl  .  .  . 
and  for  no  reason  other  than  friendliness. 
Though  we've  lost  contact,  over  the  course 
of  years,  it  pleases  me  to  know  that  these 
two  great  guys  have  reached  the  tops  in 
their  respective  professions — John  as  a 
record-breaking  pilot,  and  Karl  as  a  re- 
nowned orthopedic  surgeon. 

"Whatever  success  I've  achieved  I  have 
always  thought  I  owed  in  good  measure  to 
them.  They  could  have  let  me  fall  flat  on 
my  face.  After  a  disillusioning  experience 
in  Hollywood,  and  with  hardly  a  copper  in 
my  pocket,  if  I  had  gone  down,  it  might 
have  been  for  the  last  time,  as  far  as  the 
theater  was  concerned." 

The  day  came  when  "Irene"  closed,  and 
Blair,  with  renewed  courage,  returned  to 
Hollywood  and  the  Pasadena  Community 
Playhouse.  To  eat  at  least  somewhat 
regularly,  he  became  an  iceman. 

Then  it  happened  again.  A  friend  held 
out  a  hand.  Having  heard  of  a  radio 
audition  which  was  in  progress,  this  friend 
took  up  a  post  on  a  street  corner  which 
she  knew  was  on  Blair's  delivery  route. 
For  well  over  an  hour,  she  stood  on  the 
corner  waiting.  When  he  finally  arrived, 
there  was  no  longer  time  for  him  to 
change  clothes,  so — dripping  wet  in  his 
ice-delivering  clothes — Blair  raced  to  the 
studio  to  win  his  first  big  radio  role. 

But,  in  1936,  the  call  of  the  legitimate 
theater  became  too  great  and,  in  Novem- 
ber, he  landed  in  New  York,  once  again 
jobless.  Being  a  fairly  frugal  person, 
Blair  had  salted  away  a  fair  portion  of  his 
$200-a-week  earnings  while  riding  the 
crest  in  Hollywood.  The  next  couple  of 
years  were  lean.  There  were  two  short- 


lived  Broadway  shows,  an  occasional 
radio  spot,  and  a  commercial  movie  or  two. 
Eventually,  his  "see-me-through"  reserve 
was  gone  and,  like  many  another  strug- 
gling young  actor,  he  turned  to  the  New 
York  World's  Fair  for  sustenance. 

After  a  short  period  of  ushering  at  the 
Westinghouse  exhibit,  Blair  was  given  the 
opportunity  to  assist  in  the  staging  of  the 
Westinghouse  show.  During  the  winter 
months,  he  was  an  associate  producer  for 
one  of  Westinghouse's  advertising  agencies, 
but  spring  found  him  back  at  the  Fair. 

The  next  two  years  were  devoted  to  a 
wide  variety  of  roles  in  stock  and  touring 
companies  and,  although  Blair  wasn't  en- 
tirely unhappy  on  the  road,  he  was 
grateful  for  the  role  as  understudy  for 
Fredric  March,  in  "The  Skin  of  Our  Teeth." 

"It  certainly  wasn't  that  I  wanted  any- 
thing to  happen  to  Mr.  March,"  Blair 
grins,  "but  I  must  admit  I  did  have  a 
premonition  that  something  was  going  to 
happen.  Exactly  ten  days  after  I  was  hired, 
it  did — and  I  was  in  front  of  the  footlights 
trying  to  take  Mr.  March's  place.  Believe 
me,  that  was  a  tough  spot.  Though  I  had 
memorized  the  lines  and  had  watched  all 
the  performances,  I  had  never  had  a  third- 
act  rehearsal.  Until  the  curtain  rose,  the 
audience  would  not  know  that,  instead  of 
seeing  the  great  Fredric  March,  they 
would  be  seeing  a  comparative  unknown. 
They  would  have  every  right  in  the  world 
to  get  up  and  demand  a  refund.  Well, 
when  my  curtain  call  brought  forth  a 
couple  of  'Bravos,'  I  was  almost  beside 
myself.  I  don't  suppose  anything  will  ever 
duplicate  the  thrill  of  that  moment! 

"Perhaps  that  is  as  much  as  a  person 
should  expect  of  a  show  ...  or  maybe 
even  a  lifetime.  But  'Skin  of  Our  Teeth' 
had  still  another  great  moment  in  it  for 
me.  After  two  weeks,  Mr.  March  returned 
to  the  show.  In  front  of  everybody,  he 
shook  my  hand  and  said:    'Florence  tells 


me  you're  getting  some  things  out  of  the 
third  act  I  completely  overlooked.  I'd 
like  to  discuss  it  with  you,  if  I  may.' 

"I  was  so  elated  over  these  experiences 
that  even  Uncle  Sam  and  his  call  to  duty 
didn't  depress  me.  In  fact,  as  it  turned 
out,  I  was  probably  one  of  the  happiest 
men  in  the  Army.  I  was  assigned  to  help 
build  the  first  Armed  Forces  radio  station 
in  the  China-Burma-India  Theater  of 
Operations.  I  soon  got  to  love  India — the 
people,  the  culture,  the  lore.  So  much  so, 
in  fact,  that  after  the  war  I  almost  left  the 
theater  to  take  a  commercial  job  in  India. 
However,  I  couldn't  resist  a  lucky  break 
— a  lead  in  the  road  company  of  'The 
Constant  Wife.'  By  the  time  we  returned 
to   New  York,   the  job   was   gone." 

Which  is,  undoubtedly,  just  as  well.  By 
1948,  Blair  had  become  one  of  New  York's 
busiest  actors.  In  that  year  alone,  he  did 
thirty-five  TV  shows,  plus  a  number  of 
industrial  shows  and  commercial  pictures. 

Now,  his  heavy  schedule  with  The 
Brighter  Day  curtails  most  of  these  activ- 
ities. But,  since  he  likes  the  Rev.  Dennis 
role  so  much,  Blair  is  quite  content  with 
the  routine.  "You  see,"  he  explains,  "while 
in  India,  I  read  everything  I  could  lay 
hands  on  regarding  the  various  philoso- 
phies of  the  country.  That  led  to  heavy 
reading  of  other  philosophies,  and  I  now 
have  an  unusually  well-rounded  library 
on  the  subject.  Needless  to  say,  all  this  has 
helped  immeasurably  with  my  under- 
standing of  the  role  of  Rev.  Dennis,  and  I 
find  this  character  a  very  satisfying  ex- 
perience— both  as  an  actor  and  as  a  person. 

"When  the  Reverend  holds  out  a  help- 
ing hand,"  says  Blair  Davies  with  devout 
sincerity,  "I  know  it's  not  just  'theater' . . . 
after  all,  I,  personally,  have  had  hands 
held  out  to  me,  so  I  know  The  Brighter 
Day's  philosophy  is  both  good  and  sound 
.  .  .  and  makes  for  a  better  world  to 
live  in." 


Glad  Tidings 


(Continued  from  page  39) 
sister,"  Micki  observes.  "Even  our  noses 
are  shaped  alike."  But,  after  the  noses, 
there  is  no  similarity  in  shape.  Micki, 
crowned  Queen  of  Hearts  as  an  art  stu- 
dent, is  petite  and  very  pretty.  Dennis  is 
a  masculine-looking  guy  with  the  build  of 
an  ex -footballer  and  collegiate  boxing 
champ. 

"When  we  talk  about  the  shape  of  things 
to  come,"  Dennis  added,  "most  of  the  spec- 
ulation is  about  the  sex  of  the  baby." 

"I'd  like  a  little  girl,"  said  Micki. 

"And  I'd  like  to  please  Micki,"  Dennis 
noted.  "At  first,  I  thought  I'd  want  a  boy. 
But,  after  Micki  put  in  her  order,  I  began 
to  look  at  girl  babies — really  see  them — 
and  there  is  something  especially  beauti- 
ful and  delicate  about  them.  Then,  when 
you  consider  that  a  baby  girl  might  be  as 
pretty  as  Micki,  it  makes  the  idea  even 
more  desirable." 

Dennis  and  Micki  were  being  rather 
wistful,  for  the  odds  were  against  their 
having  a  girl.  Doctors  believe  that  the  male 
parent  determines  the  sex  of  a  baby — and, 
if  Dennis's  side  had  its  say,  the  females  of 
the  human  race  would  practically  be  ex- 
tinct. In  three  generations,  there  has  been 
only  one  female  born  on  his  side  of  the 
family.  Dennis  is  one  of  three  sons.  He 
has  one  child,  a  son,  by  a  previous 
marriage.  His  brother,  Frank  Sposa,  has 
two  boys.  His  other  brother,  Lou  Sposa, 
who  is  producer  of  Chance  Of  A  Lifetime, 
has  two  boys — and  the  rare  girl. 

"So  what?"  Dennis  smiled.  "As  you 
know,  this  is  all  just  talk.  Micki  and  I 
will  love  the  baby  just  as  much  whether 
it's  a  boy  or  girl." 


No  one  can  doubt  this,  for  Dennis  has 
been  talking  babies  ever  since  they  were 
married  on  December  5,  1951.  Micki,  too. 
When  she  showed  friends  around  their 
home  in  New  Rochelle,  she  always  added 
a  footnote  to  her  description  of  the  sewing 
room,  saying,  "It's  a  temporary  sewing 
room.    We're  saving  it  for  a  nursery." 

Wanting  a  baby  so  much,  they  did  a 
lot  of  planning.  To  avoid  fuss,  they  de- 
cided that — when  and  if  Micki  became 
pregnant — they  would  keep  it  secret  for 
four  or  five  months.  Then,  last  fall,  they 
thought  their  hopes  had  come  true.  To 
make  certain,  Micki  had  a  blood  test.  On 
October  18,  she  went  to  a  laboratory  and, 
on  October  20,  phoned  the  doctor  for  the 
results.  The  doctor  confirmed  it,  and  Micki 
immediately  phoned  Dennis  at  the  studio. 

"I  picked  up  the  phone  and  got  the 
news,"  Dennis  recalls,  "and  my  face  must 
have  been  a  picture,  because  someone 
asked,  'What's  happened,  Dennis?'  And  I 
just  answered,  without  thinking,  'We're 
going  to  have  a  baby.' "  Dennis  grinned. 
"Afterwards,  I  felt  like  a  fool.  Here  I'd  let 
it  slip  out,  and  Micki  still  had  nearly 
eight  months  to  go.  And,  of  course,  it 
leaked  to  the  papers  and  we  had  to  ex- 
plain to  relatives  and  friends  why  we 
hadn't  told  them  first." 

Dennis  is  very  proud  of  Micki.  Last  year 
she  was  honored  with  an  Adam's  Rib 
Award,  a  trophy  for  the  "most  feminine 
woman  behind  the  man."  Since  their  wed- 
ding, she  has  never  been  more  than  forty- 
five  minutes  away  from  Dennis.  And  he 
has  never  made  a  trip  on  business  or 
pleasure  without  her.  Dennis  has  raised 
about  four-and-a-half  million  dollars  for 


Are 

Love 

and 

Romance 

passing  you  by? 

DON'T  RUIN  YOUR  CHANCES 

because  of  unsightly  teeth.  Give  your 
teeth  the  Hollywood  glamour  look  .  .  . 
with  Iodent  No.  2.  Smoke  Smudge  and 
Surface  Stains  disappear  after  only 
a  few  brushings.  See  your  teeth  glow 
with  radiant  whiteness.  Iodent  No.  2  is 
made  by  a  Dentist.  It  is  guaranteed 
to  be  safe  and  effective  by  Good 
Housekeeping.  Get  a  tube  today  . .  3 
and  start  smiling  with  conBdence. 


Remember  loo  .  .  .  your 
dentist  knows  that  diet 
and  clean  teeth  are 


SONG  POEMS  WANTED 

To  be   set  to  music.    Send  your  poems   today  for  free 
examination ! 

J.  CHAS.  McNEIL  (A.  B.  Master  of  Music) 

510-MG   So.   Alexandria  Los  Angeles  5,   Calif. 


ADVICE  TO  WOMEN  WHO 
CAN'T  MAKE  ENDS  MEET 

Here's  a  big  opportunity  for  women  who  can  use  a  few 
extra  dollars  regularly  to  help  pay  bills,  buy  new  clothes, 
etc.  Act  now  and  you  will  discover  amazing  new  way  to 
earn  extra  dollars  regularly  in  your  spare  time  as  magazine 
subscription  representative.  Easy  to  do.  No  experience  nec- 
essary. No  obligation.  Send  name  and  address  today,  for 
FREE  money-making  information:  Macfadden  Publications, 
20S    E.   42   Street,    New   York    17,    N.   Y. 


I 


1      W      ^     ^ 

Can't  Get  Rid  of 
Dark  or  Discolored  Skin, 
Freckles,  Skin  Spots? 


HERE'S  HELP!  Mercolized  Wax  Cream 
7  NIGHT  PLAN  Lightens, 

Beautifies  Skin  WhileYou  Sleep 

Just  follow  the  famous  Mercolized  Wax 
Cream  7  Night  Plan  to  a  whiter,  smoother, 
lovelier  skin.  Smooth  rich,  luxurious  Mer- 
colized Wax  Cream  on  your  face  or  arms 
just  before  retiring  each  night  for  one  week. 
—  You'll  begin  to  see  results  almost 
at  once  .  .  .  lightens  dark  skin, 
blotches,  spots,  freckles  as  if  by 
magic!  This  is  not  a  cover  up  cos- 
metic; Mercolized  Wax  Cream 
works  UNDER  the  skin  surface. 
Beautiful  women  have  used  this 


Lightens  dark 
skin  and  ugly 
spots  almost 
overnight. 


time -tested  plan  for  over  40  years  — you'll 
love  it's  fast,  sure,  longer  lasting  results ! 
Mercolized  Wax  Cream  is  sold  on  100%  guar- 
antee or  money  back.    Start  using  it  now  ! 

MERCOLIZED  WAX  CREAM 

At  All  Drug  and  Cosmetic  Counters 


95 


charity  on  telethons  in  major  cities.  At 
every  one  of  these  all-night  sessions,  Micki 
has  sat  by  in  the  theater  or  studio.  Con- 
sidering her  devotion  to  Dennis  it  is 
hard  to  believe  that  she  gave  him  a  rough 
time  when  he  courted  her — but  she  did. 

"Oh,  Dennis  overwhelmed  me  all  right," 
she  now  admits.  "But  I  thought:  This  man 
is  too  sophisticated  for  me;  we  live  in 
different  worlds." 

Micki,  the  former  Margery  Crawford, 
grew  up  in  New  Castle,  Pennsylvania. 
And  she  liked  it.  After  high  school,  she 
went  to  Pittsburgh  to  study  at  the  Art 
Institute.  That  was  her  first  prolonged 
stay  away  from  home.  The  second  came 
when  her  father  died.  Then  she  and  her 
mother  went  to  Miami  for  a  rest.  That 
was  in  the  summer  of  1950.  They  liked 
Miami  so  much  they  decided  to  try  it  as 
a  permanent  home. 

Thanksgiving  of  that  same  year,  Dennis 
flew  down  to  Miami  Beach  to  convalesce 
after  an  operation.  One  evening  he  joined 
a  friend  at  a  party  and  Micki  was  there 
with  her  mother.  Micki  and  Dennis  were 
the  only  young  people  at  the  party  and 
thus  were  thrown  together.  By  the  end 
of  the  evening,  Dennis  was  in  love.  But 
it  took  a  long  time  to  convince  Micki.  This 
might  be  just  "show  business"  suavity. 

"Actually,  I  lost  my  first  fear  of  Dennis 
early,"  she  recalls.  "I  found  that  he  was 
quite  unaffected.  He  had  good  common 
sense,  and  he  was  sweet  and  considerate. 
When  I  was  beginning  to  feel  he  was  'my 
kind  of  people,'  I  was  startled  to  pick  up 
a  magazine  one  day  and  see  a  picture  of 
Dennis  describing  him  as  one  of  the  ten 
best- dressed  men  in  the  country.  Oh,  I 
was  impressed  by  it.  Maybe  too  impressed! 
Because  I  was  indecisive  again — and  that, 
I  think,  was  because  I  wasn't  quite  sure  of 
myself." 

Dennis  commuted  to  Miami  on  weekends 
to  court  Micki.  Finally,  he  convinced  her  it 
would  be  more  practical  if  she  moved  to 
New  York,  where  she'd  have  a  better 
chance  to  decide  whether  she  would  like 
his  kind  of  life.  So,  in  April,  five  months 
after  they  met,  Margery  and  Mrs.  Craw- 
ford moved  North  again.  Micki  got  a  job 
as  an  artist.  Mrs.  Crawford,  an  artist  with 
needle,  began  work  as  an  interior  deco- 
rator. And  Dennis  continued  the  court- 
ship while  showing  Micki  Manhattan. 

"She  went  to  New  Castle  for  a  visit  in 
the  fall,"  Dennis  remembers.  "I  met  her 
at  the  airport  when  she  returned,  and  I 
said,  'Will  you  marry  me?'  And  she  said, 
'Yes,  I've  been  wondering  when  you  were 
going  to  ask  me.'  Can  you  imagine  that? 
I  guess  she  hadn't  heard  me  before!" 

They  were  married  in  Fairfield,  Con- 
necticut, and  moved  into  Dennis's  bachelor 
apartment — which  was  decorated  primarily 
with  pictures  of  prizefighters.  With  the 
passing  of  winter,  they  began  to  house- 
hunt and  eventually  came  upon  a  hand- 
some home.  It  is  on  Echo  Bay.  The  rear 
terrace  sidles  down  to  the  water  and  a  pier 
where  Dennis  ties  up  his  boat.  Between 
the  pier  and  the  house  is  a  patio  and  a  20- 
by-45-foot  swimming  pool.  The  house  it- 
self is  no  less  dramatic.  The  living  room 
has  a  "cineramic"  window  that  curves 
from  wall  to  wall  and  extends  from  the 
floor  to  the  ceiling,  so  that  you  have  the 
illusion  of  sitting  right  over  the  bay.  A 
half-level  up  from  the  living  room  is  the 
master  bedroom,  with  a  balcony  which 
also  overlooks  the  bay.  The  Jameses 
breakfast  here  during  good  weather. 
Another  half -level  up  is  a  modest  room — 
but  it  is  the  most  important  of  the  day. 
T  It  is  the  future  nursery,  formerly  the  sew- 
y    ing  room. 

R  The  carpeting  is  a  gray  and  yellow 
tweed.  The  walls  are  also  yellow.  Micki 
intends  to  let  the  carpet  and  wall  stay  as 
they    are,   but   she   will    paint    a   nursery 


mural  on  one  wall.  She  is  moving  in,  from 
other  rooms  in  the  house,  a  red  up- 
holstered sofa  that  can  serve  double-duty 
as  a  bed.  Plus  this,  in  the  way  of  adult 
furniture,  will  be  a  big,  comfortable  chair 
for  settling  down  with  the  baby — and  a 
rocking  chair  for  soothing  the  baby.  The 
chests,  bureaus  and  such  will  be  small, 
nursery-size  furniture. 

Mrs.  Crawford  planned  to  cover  the 
bassinet  in  tiers  of  white  nylon  marqui- 
sette. Actually,  this  should  be  one  of  her 
last  tasks  in  connection  with  Micki's  preg- 
nancy, for  she  has  already  made  major 
contributions  to  Micki's  wardrobe. 

"Mother  went  shopping  with  me  for 
maternity  clothes,"  said  Micki,  "and  we 
were  disappointed  with  many  of  the 
things.  Nearly  all  of  the  dressy  clothes 
were  in  black,  and  Dennis  hates  black." 

"Black  has  come  to  look  like  a  uniform 
on  pregnant  women,"  Mrs.  Crawford 
added,  "and  the  color  doesn't  have  any- 
thing to  do  with  camouflage.  A  pregnant 
woman  looks  pregnant  in  any  color,  so  we 
decided  to  buy  some  fabrics  that  were 
cheerful  and  make  the  clothes  ourselves." 

They  chose  French  silk  in  fuchsia  for 
one  suit.  Another  was  made  of  peau  de 
soie,  with  a  black  skirt  and  ivory  top 
figured  in  gold.  A  skirt  was  made  of  gray 
flannel  to  accommodate  a  variety  of  tops. 
Another  two-piece  outfit,  which  Mrs. 
Crawford  designed  as  a  cocktail  dress, 
was  made  of  pink  polished  cotton,  a  new 
satiny  material.  Mrs.  Crawford  trimmed 
the  top  in  embroidered  blue  ribbon. 

••••••*••••••••••••••••••••• 

Invest  in  U.S.  SAVINGS  BONDS 

NOW   EVEN    BETTER 

••••••••••••••••••••••••a-*** 

Mrs.  Crawford  worked  from  regular 
patterns  in  size  ten,  rather  than  Micki's 
normal  size  eight. 

"I  haven't  been  making  the  usual  'kan- 
garoo' skirts,"  she  noted.  "I've  made  the 
skirts  so  that  they  can  be  remodeled  for 
ordinary  wear  after  the  baby  comes.  I  do 
this  by  making  a  skirt  with  a  two-panel 
front.  I  keep  the  bottom  slim.  But,  from 
the  bottom  of  the  hips  to  the  waist,  I  cut 
the  center  seams  on  a  curve.  Then  I  sew  in 
two  flat,  two-inch  seams  on  either  side  of 
the  center  seam,  so  that  the  pleats  can  be 
opened  one  at  a  time  through  the  preg- 
nancy. I  leave  a  permanent  opening  on 
each  side  of  the  skirt  with  an  adjustable 
waistband.  After  the  baby  comes,  all  I 
have  to  do  is  to  cut  out  the  curves,  sew 
the  front  panels  together,  and  we'll  have 
a  regular  skirt." 

Mrs.  Crawford's  first  name  is  Mildred. 
Micki  calls  her  "Mother"  and  Dennis  calls 
her  "Mim."  She  lives  in  a  Manhattan 
apartment,  but  visits  frequently  with  Micki 
and  often  weekends  at  their  home.  Both 
she  and  Dennis  got  a  little  revenge  on 
Micki  in  the  days  of  pregnancy. 

"We're  big  eaters,  all  three  of  us," 
Dennis  explained.  "But  Micki  ate  any- 
thing, including  triple-malteds  and  never 
gained  an  ounce.  Now  she  has  to  watch 
her  weight.  Her  doctor  wants  her  to  keep 
her  gain  to  twenty  pounds." 

In  earlier  days,  Dennis  was  stopped 
from  a  second  helping  of  potatoes  by  the 
relentless  eye  of  Micki.  Sometimes  she 
would  add,  "It's  not  really  worth  it, 
Dennis."  Or,  "Mother,  where's  your  will 
power?" 

"She  was  merciless,"  Mrs.  Crawford 
chuckles.  "Now  we  give  it  right  back  to 
her.  She's  found  out  that  you  don't  come 
by  'will  power'  that  easily." 

Dennis  and  Micki  had  few  complaints 
about  the  way  her  pregnancy  progressed. 
Micki     had    no     morning     sickness  —  not 


even    in    the    afternoon    or    evening, 
suffered    practically    no    discomfort.    And 
they  weren't  restricted  socially. 

"Of  course,  no  one  believes  the  kind  of 
life  we  lead,"  Dennis  remarked.  "Our 
whole  existence  centers  around  the  house. 
Four  nights  a  week,  we're  in  bed  by  eight- 
thirty.  Of  course,  we  may  stay  up  until  one 
or  two,  reading  and  watching  television  in 
the  bedroom.  But  you'll  seldom  find  us  in 
a  night  club." 

The  greatest  adjustment  to  the  new 
baby  will  have  to  be  made  by  Candy, 
their  fawn-colored  boxer.  "You  know,  you 
have  to  worry  about  a  dog's  jealousy," 
said  Dennis,  "just  as  you  would  have  to  be 
concerned  with  that  of  an  older  child: 

Micki  bought  a  life-sized  doll  and  helc 
it  around  Candy,  rocking  it  or  talking  to 
it,  hoping  this  would  prepare  Candy  for 
the  real  infant.  Candy  seemed  to  under- 
stand and  has  been  showing  much  less 
strain  than  Dennis.  Dennis  has  been  hav- 
ing a  case  of  "first-baby  nerves,"  even 
though  this  will  be  his  second  child. 
Dennis,  Jr.,  is  eleven  years  old.  But  when 
his  child  was  born,  on  March  28,  1945, 
Dennis,  Sr.,  was  in  the  armed  service  and 
some  three- thousand  miles  distant.  So  this 
is  actually  his  first  experience  close  at 
hand,  and  he  hasn't  been  merely  a  cautious 
man  but  a  most  "precautious"  one. 

"In  the  beginning,  he  would  hardly  let 
me  walk,"  Micki  recalls.  "He  worried 
about  my  driving  the  car,  climbing  stairs, 
about  how  I  sat  and  where  I  sat.  Finally, 
the  doctor  told  me  to  tell  him  I  could  do 
anything  within  reason,  and  he  relented." 

But  Dennis's  "first-baby  nerves"  have 
been  aggravated  no  little  by  some  of  the 
participants  on  the  recent  afternoon  show 
he  did  over  CBS-TV.  Participants  were 
people  who  had  unusual  experiences,  and 
this  included  women  who  had  given  birth 
in  pick-up  trucks,  tree-houses  and  bar- 
gain basements.  It  wasn't  funny  to  Dennis. 

"Micki's  doctor  is  in  Manhattan,"  he 
pointed  out,  "her  reservation  is  in  the 
Doctor's  Hospital  in  Manhattan.  That's  at 
least  a  forty-five  minute  drive  from  the 
house.  Well,  ordinarily,  I'd  never  con- 
sider that  as  being  far." 

But  there  was  one  woman  who  told  of 
her  husband  driving  eighty  miles  an  hour 
to  get  her  to  the  maternity  ward.  She  told 
him  to  slow  down — and  she  gave  birth  to 
a  baby  in  the  car.  He  started  up  again,  she 
ordered  him  to  slow  down  once  more — and 
gave  birth  to  another  baby. 

"After  hearing  that  story,"  said  Dennis, 
"I  decided  we'd  better  move  into  the  city 
a  day  or  two  before  Micki  'was  due." 

But  then  another  mother  came  on  and 
told  a  similar  story.  Her  husband  was 
driving  her  to  the  hospital  when  she  an- 
nounced that  she  couldn't  wait.  Her  hus- 
band not-so-calmly  turned  the  car  into  a 
tree.  She  had  the  baby  in  the  car,  and 
everyone  was  fine  afterwards — except  the 
car  and  the  husband.  At  that  point,  Dennis 
decided  the  Jameses  would  move  into 
Manhattan  in  late  May,  since  the  baby 
was  due  about  June  13  or  a  little  after. 

"Dennis  will  never  be  an  indifferent 
father,"  Micki  observed.  "I  know  that  if 
the  baby  so  much  as  clucks  during  the 
night,  Dennis  will  jump  out  of  bed.  He's 
naturally  attentive  around  children.  I've 
watched  him  play  with  kids  at  the  pool. 
On  Christmas,  we  always  have  twenty- 
five  underprivileged  children  out  for  a 
party,  and  I've  seen  the  way  he  waits  on 
them  and  looks  after  them.  Why,  when  we 
visit  friends  who  have  children,  Dennis  is 
right  down  on  the  floor  playing  with  them. 

"It's  nice  to  know,"  she  added,  with  a 
smile,  "who'll  walk  the  floor  at  four  A.M." 

Said  Dennis,  with  deep  sincerity,  "God 
helped  us  to  give  the  baby  life.  And,  with 
God's  help,  he  or  she  will  make  the  most 
of  it." 


N 


yv 


A    GENTLE,  FRAGRANT    SPRAY   THAT    HOLDS    HAIR 
SOFTLY,    BEAUTIFULLY    IN    PLACE     FOR    HOURS 

Breck  Hair  Set  Mist  is  a  fragrant  spray  which  delicately  holds  your  hair  softly  in 
place  for  hours.  After  combing,  a  few  brief  sprays  keep  the  hair  beautifully  arranged. 

When  freshening,  a  damp  comb  renews  your  waves  -  no  respraying  is  necessary. 

Breck  Hair  Set  Mist  also  provides  a  quick,  easy  way  to  make  lasting  pin  curls. 

Fragrant  as  a  bouquet,  Breck  Hair  Set  Mist  contains  lanolin,  which  leaves  the  hair 
soft   to   touch   and   brings  out   the   natural   lustre   and   beauty  of  your   hair. 


B 


R 


CJu eautljul  c/tati 


E       C 


K 


Available  at  Beauty  Shops,  Drug  Stores,  Department  Stores  and  wherever  cosmetics  are  sold.     4\/2  oz.  $1.25;     11  oz.  $2.00.   Plus  tax. 


at  last ! 


A  LIQUID  SHAMPOO 
that s  EXTRA  RICH  ! 


ITS  LIQUID 


FOR 


Absolutely  unique,  emerald-clear  new  Liquid  Prell  is  extra  rich  .  ,  . 

that's  why  it  leaves  your  hair  looking  'Radiantly  Alive'.  And  your  hair 
falls  into  place  so  easily,  yet  feels  delightfully  soft  and  silky.  Truly  a 

luxurious  shampoo,  Liquid  Prell  bursts  instantly  into  mounds  of  richer, 
more  effective  lather.  Try  it  today.  There's  radiant  beauty  in  every  drop! 

J 


JUST  POUR  LIQUID  PRELl  .  .  .  and  you'll  see  the  glorious  difference! 


Never  too  thin  or  watery  — never  too  messy  or  wasteful  — like  so 
many  ordinary  liquid  shampoos.  Never  too  thick,  with  a  "filming" 
ingredient  that  can  dull  hair  like  many  cream  shampoos.  Extra- 
Rich  Liquid  Prell  has  just  the  right  consistency.  It  won't  run  and 
it  never  leaves  a  dulling  film. 


And  you'll  love 

PRELL  CONCENTRATE— 

leaves  hair  extra  clean  . . . 
extra  radiant! 

Not  a  cream— not  a  liquid  — 
but  a  clear  shampoo 
concentrate  that  contains  more 
cleansing  ingredients,  ounce 
for  ounce,  than  any  other 
type  of  shampoo!  That's  why 
Prell  Concentrate  leaves 
your  hair  extra  clean, 
extra  radiant! 


"PRIU    "a^*1"""""*' 


CREATED   BY   PROCTER  &  GAMBLE 


ADIO  MIRROR 


VIRGINIA  GRAHAM 

THE  MODERNAIRES 

IYNNE 'ROGERS 

JEAN  McBRIDE 


in.  t./  IM.  J./  v-onn.  edition 


Alice  Lon  and  Lawrence  Welk 


AVE  GARROWAY 


That  Ivory  Took 

so  clear. . .  so  fresh.. . .  so  easily  yours 


An  adorable  winner  .  .  .  this  tiny  tennis 

player  with  That  Ivory  Look!  And  this  look 

of  freshness  can  be  yours  through  the 

magic  of  Ivory's  mildness.  Gentle  enough 

for  baby's  skin,  doctors  advise  pure, 

mild  Ivory  Soap  for  yours,  too. 


You'll  be  a  winner  .  .  .  when  you 

make  Ivory  your  beauty  soap.  The  milder 

your  soap,  the  prettier  your  skin,  and 

Ivory  has  a  mildness  all  its  own.  And  from  the 

magic  of  this  mildness  comes  that 

clearer,  fresher  look — That  Ivory  Look. 


i 


& 


f 


■ ;'::  ■■-::':>:: -;'■'' 


9S  iot%   PURE...  IT  FLOATS 
® 


.a  perfect  snap! 

A  Look  .  .  .  large-size  Ivory  in 
Jr      the  new  twin-cake  design 

snaps  into  2  perfect  toilet-size 
cakes — one  for  your  bath, 
one  for  your  complexion. 


More  doctors  advise  Ivory  than  any  other  soap 


PHOTOGRAPH     BY    RICHARD    AVEDON 


Ei  ww 


&m®  W**Bi  W*w    ^k    H^.^8 


The  doctor's  deodorant  discovery 
that  now  safely  stops  odor  24  hours  a  day 


Underarm  comparison  tests  made 
by  doctors  proved  a  deodorant  without 
M-3  stopped  odor  only  a  few  hours  — 
while  New  Mum  with  M-3  stopped 
odor  a  full  24  hours! 


You're  serene.  You're  sure  of  yourself.  You're  bandbox  perfect  from  the  skin  out. 

And  you  stay  that  way  night  and  day  with  New  Mum  Cream. 

Because  New  Mum  now  contains  M-3  (hexachlorophene)  which  clings  to 

your  skin  — keeps  on  stopping  perspiration  odor  24  hours  a  day- 

So  safe  you  can  use  it  daily  — won't  irritate  normal  skin  or  damage  fabrics. 


ANOTHER    FINE   PRODUCT  OF  BRISTOL-MYERS 


KINO  TO  YOUR  SKIN  ANO  CLOTHES 


3  NYLONS 

"a  pair  and  a  spare" 
60  gauge,  15  denier 

VALUE  FOR 


Yours-as  a 


eauty  doims 

when  you  send  in  the  top  of  a 


HOLD- BOB 

BOBBY  PIN  CARD 

Gayla  hold-bob  with  Flexi-Grip,  the 
world's  best  bobby  pin,  offers  you  a 
Beauty  Bonus  of  sheer,  luxurious,  60 
gauge,  15  denier  nylons  at  savings  of 
over  one-half.  You  can  get  a  set  of  three 
of  these  leg-flattering  nylons  by  sending 
only  $1.00  with  the  top  of  a  Gayla  hold- 
bob  bobby  pin  card  or  Gayla  Hair  Net 
envelope.  Insist  on  Gayla  HOLD-BOB,  the 
bobby  pin  more  women  prefer  over  all 
others,  and  send  for  these  beautifully 
fitting,  long  wearing  nylons  today! 

©  IM6  G.».l. 


GAYLORD  PRODUCTS, 

INCORPORATED,  DEPT.T-8 
1918  Prairie  Ave.,  Chicago  16,  III. 

Plenge  send  DostDaid. sets  (a  pair  and  a  spare)  of 

Ste  the  top  of  a  Gayla  UOLD-BOB  Bobby  Pin  Card  ora 
Gayla  Hair  Net  Envelope,  for  each  set.  (The  top  of  a  ae 

card  entitles  you  to  order  2  sets.)  

Color:     D  Horning  Mist     DOMtrtSw.     D  ff«Mn«»» 
*  (Grayish  Taupa)         (Brownish  B«lge)  (R«»  Hue) 

Slzi;      D8'/s    D9    D9Vi    Q  10    D  lO'/s    QU 
Q  Shirt    Q  Medium    D  long      Q  Sell  Seam    QOarkSesm 

NAME 


IPlease  Print) 


-STATE- 


»)TY . Niair- . 

"This  offer  good  only  in  continental  United  States 
Hawaii  and  JUaska.  Offer  subject  to  State  and  Local 
Requirements  and  may  be  w.thdrawn  w.thout  notice. 


mail  this  coupon  today! 


TV, 


RADIO 
MIRROR 


AUGUST,   1956 


N.Y.,  N.J.,  CONN.   EDITION 


VOL.  46,  NO.  3 


Ann  Higginbotham,  Editorial  Director 


Ann  Mosher,  Editor 
Teresa  Buxton,  Managing  Editor 
Claire  Safran,  Associate  Editor 
Sonia  Gould,  Assistant  Editor 


Jack  Zasorin,  Art  Director 

Frances  Maly,  Associate  Art  Director 

Joan  Clarke,  Art  Assistant 

Bud  Goode,  West  Coast  Editor 


PEOPLE  ON  THE  AIR 

What's  New  From  Coast  to  Coast by  Jill  Warren  18 

Forever  Sparkling  (Alice  Lon) by  Bud  Goode  27 

Living  in  His  Sunshine  (Virginia  Graham) by  Elizabeth  Ball  30 

The  Mrs.  Eddie  Fisher  I  Know by  Peggy  King  34 

Grandmas  Have  the  Most  Fun  (Kathryn  Murray )  ..by  Gregory  Merwin  36 

Imagine  Me— Playing  Cupid!   (Dwight  Weist) by  Ethel  Owen  38 

Model  Girl  (Marion  James) by  Martin  Cohen  40 

As  The  World  Turns  (picture  story  from  the  popular  daytime  serial)  52 

"Where  or  When"   (Merv  Griffin) by  Marie  Haller  56 

Hearts  Grow  Fonder  (Lynne  Rogers) by  Ed  Meyerson  58 

Who's  Who  on  Mysterytime  (ABC's  whodunit  series) 60 

The  Edge  Of  Night  (John  Larkin) by  Mary  Temple  64 

Play  Editor  (pick  the  stars  and  shows  you  want  to  read  about) 68 


FEATURES  IN  FULL  COLOR 

Wedding  for  Today  (Dave  Garroway) by  Gladys  Hall  42 

The  Merry  Modernaires by  Fredda  Balling  44 

The  Littlest  Cinderella  (Jeanne  Cagney) by  Pauline  Townsend  48 

What  Every  Woman  Wants  (Jean  McBride) by  Frances  Kish  50 


YOUR  LOCAL  STATION 

Thanks  for  a  Full  Life 8 

Time  For  Fun   (WABC-TV) 12 

Triple  Play  in  Boston  (WNAC,  Yankee  Net.) 16 

The  Man  Called  Sullivan 20 


YOUR  SPECIAL  SERVICES 

Information  Booth 6 

On  the  Record by  Joan  Wallace  10 

New  Designs  for  Living  (needlecraft  and  transfer  patterns) 14 

Daytime  Diary  22 

New  Patterns  for  You  (smart  wardrobe  suggestions) 24 

Inside  Radio  (program  listings) 72 

TV  Program  Highlights 74 

Cover  portrait  of  Alice  Lon  and  Lawrence  Welk  by  Robert  Perkins 


BUY  YOUR  SEPTEMBER  ISSUE  EARLY  •  ON  SALE  AUGUST  7 


*«■• 


F»uV» 


PUBLISHED  MONTHLY  by  Macfadden  Pub- 
lications,   Inc.,    New  York,    N.   Y. 
EXECUTIVE,      ADVERTISING      AND      EDI- 
TORIAL    OFFICES      at     205      East     42nd 
Street,   New  York,  N.  Y.   Editorial  Branch 
t  Office:    6269    S'elma    Ave..    Hollywood    28, 
Calif,     Irving    S.     Manheimer,     President; 
Lee     Andrews,      Vice     President;      Meyer 
Dworkin,    Secretary  and  Treasurer.  Adver- 
tising offices  also  in  Chicago,    221   North. 
LaSalle  Street,    and   San  Francisco. 

SUBSCRIPTION  RATES:  $3.00  one  year,  U.  S.  and 
Possessions  and  Canada.  $5.00  per  year  for  all  other 
countries. 

CHANGE  OF  ADDRESS:  6  weeks'  notice  essential.  When 
possible,  please  furnish  stencil- impression  address 
from  a  recent  issue.  Address  changes  can  be  made  only 
if  you  send  us  your  old,  as  well  as  your  new  address. 
Write  to  TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East  42nd  Street,  New 
York  17,  N.  Y. 
MANUSCRIPTS:   All  manuscripts  will  be  carefully  con- 


sidered, but  publisher  cannot  be  responsible  for  loss  or 
damage.  It  is  advisable  to  keep  a  duplicate  copy  for 
your  records.  Only  those  manuscripts  accompanied  "by 
stamped,  self-addressed  return  envelopes  or  with  suffi- 
cient return  postage  will  be  returned. 
FOREIGN  editions  handled  through  Macfadden  Publi- 
cations International  Corp.,  205  East  42nd  Street,  New 
York  17,  N.  Y.  Irving  S.  Manheimer,  President;  Doug- 
las Lockhart,    Vice  President. 

RE-ENTERED  as  Second  Class  Matter,  June  28,  1954, 
at  the  Post  Office  at  New  York,  N.  Y.,  under  the  Act  of 
March  3,  1879.  Authorized  ae  Second  Class  mail,  P.  O. 
Dept.,  Ottawa,  Ont.,  Canada.  Copyright  1956  by  Mac- 
fadden Publications,  Inc.  All  rights  reserved  under  In- 
ternational Copyright  Convention.  All  rights  reserved 
under  Pan-American  Copyright  Convention.  Todos  de- 
rechos  reservados  segun  la  Convencion  Pan-Americana 
de  Propiedad  Literaria  y  Artistica.  Title  trademark 
registered  in  U.S.  Patent  Office.  Printed  in  U.  S.  A. 
by  Art  Color  Printing   Company. 

Member   of   the   TRUE   STORY   Women's   Group 


S^t-N 


youR 


BBS 


T  F«'eN, 


*oN,T 


nL 


L+OU! 


Germs  are  the  major  cause  of  bad  breath  .  .  . 

no  tooth  paste  kills  germs  like  Listerine,  instantly,  by  millions. 


The  most  common  cause  of  bad  breath  is 
the  fermentation  of  proteins  which  are 
always  present  in  the  mouth.  So,  the 
more  you  reduce  germs  in  the  mouth,  the 
longer  your  breath  stays  sweeter. 

Listerine  Antiseptic  kills  germs  on  contact! 

Listerine  Antiseptic  kills  germs  by  millions 
on  contact.  Fifteen  minutes  after  gargling  with 
'  Listerine,  germs  on  tooth,  mouth  and  throat 
surfaces  were  reduced  up  to  96.7%;  one  hour 


afterward  as  much  as  80%.  Listerine 
averaged  four  times  better  in  stopping 
bad  breath  than  tooth  pastes  tested. 

Listerine  Antiseptic  acts  on  many  surfaces. 

Listerine  acts  antiseptically  on  many 
surfaces  .  .  .  the  teeth,  mouth,  throat.  It  kills 
disease-producing  germs  as  well  as  many  types 
of  odor-producing  germs.  No  tooth  paste 
offers  proof  like  this  of  killing  germs 
that  cause  bad  breath. 


THE  MOST  WIDELY 

USED  ANTISEPTIC 

IN  THE  WORLD 


A  SENSATIONAL 


y* 


$4.50  % 

Pub.  i 

Ed.  fW. 


lovets/le 


THESE  LOVERS  FLED  AWAY 

Howard  Spring.  '  'His  best  nov- 
el !" — Ladies'  Home  Journal.  A 
magnificent  love  story  spanning 
three  generations,  with  a  vivid 
gallery  of  characters. 


$5.00 

InOrig 


NATURE'S  WONDERS  IN  FULL 
COLOR.  Thrill  to  462  amaz- 
ing close-up  photos  of  animal 
life,  insects,  birds,  flowers, 
trees,  etc.  with  fascinating  and 
informative  stories !  Big  new 
7"  by  10"  book. 


THE 

Outline 

OF 

Hist? 


HAMMOND-DOUBLEDAY  WORLD 
ATLAS.  Big  93/s"  by  12y4"  book. 
Covers  U.S.,  Canada,  all  foreign 
countries.  90  maps,  32  full-page, 
full-color!  154  photos  plus  94  pages 
of  useful  facts  about  the  world's 
peoples,  customs,  resources,  indus- 
tries, governments,  etc. 

COLUMBIA-VIKING  DESK  EN- 
CYCLOPEDIA. New  2 -volume 
edition,  1,440  pages,  31,000  ar- 
ticles, 1,250,000  words.  Up-to- 
date  and  authoritative  answers  to 
thousands  of  questions  in  all  fields 
of  knowledge.  Illustrated.  (Set 
counts  as  one  book )  $7  Q5 

in  Orig. 
-Vol.  Ed. 


ANNIVERSARY 
SPECIAL! 


OUTLINE    OF    HISTORY 

H.  G.  Wells.  New  2-vol- 
ume  edition,  1,312  pages, 
200  maps,  pictures.  Whole 
story  of  man  from  earliest 
times  to  our  day.  One  of 
the  most  acclaimed  works 
of  the  century !  (Set  counts 
as  one  book) 


„  pictures 

•jSasrr^ 


STORY  OF  AMERICA 
IN     PICTURES.    New 

1956  edition,  488  pages, 
nearly  500  pictures, 
vivid  text.  Whole  his- 
tory of  our  land,  in- 
cluding President  Eisen- 
hower, Geneva,  etc. 


$7.50 

in  Pub. Or i o.Ed. 

THE  TREASURE  OF 
PLEASANT    VALLEY 

Frank  Yerby.  Rousing 
tale  of  the  Gold  Rush, 
and  of  an  adventurer 
in  love  with  two  "un- 
touchable" females — 
a  ravishingblonde  and 
adark-eyedhalf-breedl 


$3.50    in 
Pub.  Ed. 


&  &sSSt 


THORNDIKE  -  BARN- 
HART   DICTIONARY 

(CONCISE). 1956edi- 

tion,  70,000  entries, 
600  pictures,  544 
pages,  easy  pronuncia- 
tion guide,  sections  on 
letter  writing,  gram- 
mar, etc. 


THE     USA     IN     COLOR 

Editors  of  Holiday  maga- 
zine take  you  on  a  fabulous 
'  'picture-tour' '  of  America's 
scenic  wonders  and  vaca- 
tionlarids  in  nearly  200 
FULL  COLOR  photos  and 
paintings  that  are  truly 
breathtaking!  Big  8^ by 
10"  volume. 


"I; 


.95 

in  Pub. Ed. 


NOT   AS   A    STRANGER 

Morton   Thompson.   Big 

best-seller  about  a  young 
doctor  and  the  women  in 
his  life.  700  exciting  pages 
—  tense  with  drama  and 
human  emotions ! 


MODERN  FAMILY  COOK 
BOOK— Mela  Given.  New 
edition  of  the  most  useful 
cook  book  ever  published ! 
1,137  recipes,  640  pages, 
many  pictures,  16  in  colorl 


GONE, 
WITH  THE 


GONE   WITH   THE   WIND 

Margaret  Mitchell.  Beautiful 
Scarlett  O'Hara  and  adven- 
turous Rhett  Butler  live  again 
in  this  complete  new  edition 
of  an  American  classic! 


50 

In 
Pub.  Ed. 


MAIL  COUPON   ON  FACING  PAGE  t 


FROM  AMERICA'S  BIGGEST  BOOK  CLUB! 


n  Pub.  Ed. 


NEW  CREATIVE  HOME  DECO- 
RATING. Complete  guide  to  color, 
furniture,  windows,  walls,  acces- 
sories, etc.  for  every  room.  658 
pictures,  128  model  rooms,  38  in 
color !  Big  1V&"  by  10V4"  book. 


Act  Now  to  Get  This  Fabulous  Book  Package  for  $1 


TAKE  advantage  of  this  25  th 
Anniversary  celebration  of 
the  Dollar  Book  Club!  Join  now 
and  receive  the  biggest  bargain 
ever  offered  to  new  members. 

Select  any  3  of  the  big-value 
books  shown  for  only  $1. 
Choose  from  best-sellers  by  top 
authors ...  beautiful  library 
volumes. .  .big  illustrated  books 
. . .  many  newly  offered  for  this 
special  event!  Just  think  —  a 
total  value  of  up  to  $22.95  in 
publishers'  editions  for  just  $1. 

As  a  Member,  You  Save 
up  to  75%  on  New  Books! 

Imagine  —  best-seller  selections 
costing  up  to  $3.95  in  publishers' 
editions  come  to  Club  members  for 
only  $1  each!  Over  the  years  the 
biggest  hits  by  Ernest  Hemingway, 
W.  Somerset  Maugham,  Thomas 
B.  Costain,  Daphne  du  Maurier, 

DOUBLEDAY  ONE  DOLLAR  BOOK 


Frank  Yerby  and  others,  have  come 
to  Club  members  at  this  low  $1 
price.  Occasionally,  extra-value 
selections  at  $1.49  are  offered.  All 
are  full-size,  hard-bound  books. 
Other  desirable  volumes,  too,  are 
offered  at  savings  up  to  75% !  But 
you  buy  only  the  books  you  want — 
and  you  don't  have  to  take  one 
every  month.  Take  as  few  as  six  $1 
selections  a  year! 
Send  No  Money— Mail  Coupon! 
Receive  any  3  books  in  this  offer 
for  only  $1,  plus  a  small  shipping 
charge.  Two  books  are  your  gift 
for  joining,  and  one  is  your  first 
selection.  Thereafter,  you  will  re- 
ceive the  Club's  Bulletin,  which 
describes  forthcoming  selections. 
No-Risk  Guarantee:  If  not  de- 
lighted with  your  introductory 
Three-Book  bargain  package,  re- 
turn all  books  and  membership 
will  be  cancelled.  Act  now  to  ac- 
cept this  wonderful  offer! 
CLUB.  GARDEN  CITY.  NEW  YORK 


MAIL  THIS  COUPON 


D  Not  As  a  Stranger 

Q  The  Outline  of  History  (set) 

S  Story  of  America  in  Pictures 
Tender  Victory 
D  These  Lovers  Fled  Away 
□  Thorndike-Barnhart 

Dictionary  (Concise) 
O  Treasure  of  Pleasant  Valley 
D  The  U.S.A.  in  Color 


Doubleday  One  Dollar  Book  Club,  Dept.  8-TSG,  Garden  City,  New  York 
Enroll  me  as  a  Dollar  Book  Club  member.  Send  me  at  once  as 
my  gift  books  and  first  selection  the  3  books  checked  below  and 
bill  me  only  $1  FOR  ALL  3,  plus  a  small  shipping  charge. 

□  Beyond  Desire 

□  Columbia-Viking  Encyclopedia  (set) 
D  The  Golden  Journey 
D  Gone  With  the  Wind 
D  Hammond-Doubleday  World  Atlas 
O  Modern  Family  Cook  Book 

□  Nature's  Wonders  in  Full  Color 

□  New  Creative  Home  Decorating 

Also  send  my  first  issue  of  The  Bulletin,  telling  me  about  the  new 
forthcoming  one-dollar  book  selections  and  other  bargains  for 
members.  I  may  notify  you  in  advance  if  I  do  not  wish  the  follow- 
ing month's  selections.  I  do  not  have  to  accept  a  book  every  month 
—  only  six  a  year.  I  pay  nothing  except  SI  for  each  selection  I 
accept,  plus  a  small  shipping  charge  (unless  I  choose  an  extra- 
value  selection).  NO-RISK  GUARANTEE:  If  not  delighted  return  all 
books  in  7  days  and  membership  will  be  cancelled. 

Mr.  Please 

Mrs Print 

Miss 

Address 

City 

&  Zone State 


In  Canada,  selection  price  $1.10  plus  shipping;  address  Doubleday  Book 
Club.  105  Bond  Street.  Toronto  2.  Offer  good  in  U.S.A.  and  Canada  only. 


John  Conte 


Doris  Drew 


Warren  Berlinger 


information  booth 


Versatile  Host 

/  would  appreciate  some  information 
about  John  Conte,  the  host  of  NBC-TV's 
Matinee  Theater. 

B.  F.,  Milwaukee,   Wis. 

The  multi-talented  John  Conte  first 
realized  that  his  heart  belonged  to  show 
business  when  he  sang  "0,  Susanna"  in  a 
grammar-school  production.  At  the  age 
of  five,  John  and  his  parents  moved  from 
his  birthplace,  Palmer,  Massachusetts,  to 
Los  Angeles.  At  Lincoln  High  School,  he 
started  serious  vocal  study.  Later,  he 
graduated  to  the  Pasadena  Playhouse,  in 
order  to  learn  the  art  of  acting.  ...  A 
staff  announcing  job  on  KHJ  in  Los  An- 
geles led  to  similar  work  on  network 
shows.  His  rich  baritone  voice  was  in- 
itially heard  as  the  singing  emcee  of  the 
Frank  Morgan-Fannie  Brice  radio  show. 
Broadway  audiences  acclaimed  him  in 
"Windy  City,"  "Allegro,"  "Carousel"  and 
"Arms  and  the  Girl" — the  girl  being  Na- 
nette Fabray.  .  .  .  The  year  1950  brought 
the  handsome  singer  to  the  TV  screen  with 
the  successful  John  Conte  Little  Show,  as 
well  as  on  other  dramatic  programs.  When 
"Carousel"  was  revived  at  New  York's 
City  Center  in  1954.  John  played  an  im- 
portant part  in  its  success.  That  year,  he 
married  Ruth  Harris,  a  red-haired  beauty 
from  Atlanta,  Georgia.  Their  permanent 
residence  is  in  Hollywood. 

Start  at  the  Top 

/  would  like  some  information  about 
Doris  Drew,  the  singer  on  the  Tennessee 
Ernie  Ford  Show,  on  NBC-TV. 

C.  D.,  Mound,  Tex. 

The     brunette,     hazel-eyed     songstress, 

t    Doris  Drew,  just  never  paid  much  atten- 

v    tion  to  the  axiom,  "Start  from  the  bottom 

R    and    work     yourself    up."     With    typical 

Texas  spirit,  the  San  Antonio  lass  left  her 

home  to  enter  a  talent  contest  in  Los  An- 
6 


geles  and  was  the  victor  over  3,000  other 
entrants.  Doris's  prize  was  an  engagement 
with  Frankie  Laine  at  the  Million  Dollar 
Theater.  In  rapid  order  came  bookings  in 
other  plush  bistros — then  a  recording  con- 
tract. After  Johnny  Desmond  signed  her 
for  a  thirteen-week  run,  Doris  moved  right 
into  her  own  network  series  and  a  daily 
TV  show.  .  .  .  Returning  to  the  West  Coast, 
she  joined  the  Jack  Carson  Show  and  then 
stepped  into  the  spotlight  as  a  singing 
star  on  the  Tennessee  Ernie  Ford  Show. 
.  .  .  An  outdoor  girl,  Doris  loves  to  golf, 
swim  and  ride  horseback.  In  private  life, 
she's  Mrs.  Larry  Allen,  wife  of  the  noted 
comedian.  With  three-year-old  Danny,  the 
Aliens  live  in  a  new  ranch-style  home  in 
North  Hollywood.  Doris  is  as  much  at 
home  cooking  and  sewing  a  3  she  is  with 
a  dreamy  ballad  or  novelty  tune. 

Actor — Par  Excellence 

Please  publish  some  information  about 
John  Cassavetes,  who  has  appeared  on 
numerous    TV   dramatic  programs. 

S.  L.,  Normandy,  Mo. 

One  of  the  nation's  most  rapidly  rising 
young  actors,  John  Cassavetes  has  been 
seen  on  stage,  motion  pictures  and  TV. 
A  native  New  Yorker,  the  twenty-six-year- 
old  performer  studies  at  the  American 
Academy  of  Dramatic  Arts.  ...  In  well 
over  fifty  television  plays,  John  has  run 
the  gamut  from  tragedy  to  comedy — as 
the  sullen  delinquent  in  "Crime  on  the 
Streets"  (which  he  later  recreated  in  the 
movies),  as  the  comic  relief  in  "Combat 
Medic"  and  as  the  touching  ex-prize- 
fighter in  "Bring  Me  a  Dream."  His  per- 
formance in  the  Broadway  production  of 
"End  as  a  Man"  won  acclaim  from  crit- 
ics. .  .  .  Several  years  ago,  during  a  visit 
to  Provincetown,  Massachusetts,  John  met 
a  young  actress  named  Gena  Rowlands, 
who  is  now  his  wife.  At  present,  Gena  is 
appearing  on  Broadway  in  "Middle  of 
the  Night,"  with  Edward  G.  Robinson.  .  .  . 


Once  an  assistant  stage  manager  and  un- 
derstudy for  the  Broadway  comedy,  "The 
Fifth  Season,"  John  treasures  the  advice 
of  the  play's  star,  Menasha  Skulnik, 
who  said,  "If  you  can't  have  fun  and  be 
comfortable,  there's  no  sense  being  an 
actor."    John  has  never  forgotten  that. 

Pot-Shot  to  Stardom 

Would  you  please  give  me  some  infor- 
mation about  Warren  Berlinger,  who  plays 
Jerry  in  The  Secret  Storm,  on  CBS-TV? 
S.  C,  Memphis,  Tenn. 

When  Warren  Berlinger  was  eight, 
taking  aim  at  one  of  the  "Indians"  in  the 
neighborhood — he  was  a  "cowboy" — a 
woman's  well-directed  potshot  propelled 
him,  holsters  and  all,  into  an  acting  career. 
Born  August  31,  1937,  in  Brooklyn,  New 
York,  where  he  still  resides,  Warren  re- 
calls that  Mrs.  Tracy  stopped  him,  just 
between  cap-gun  fusillades,  to  ask  whether 
he  would  like  to  be  in  the  movies.  Think- 
ing he  had  an  invitation  to  a  matinee,  the 
youngster  led  the  lady  to  get  his  mother's 
permission.  Mrs.  Berlinger  listened  as 
Mrs.  Tracy,  explained  that  auditions  were 
being  held  for  a  role  in  the  movie  version 
of  "Life  With  Father."  ...  As  it  hap- 
pened, Warren  didn't  get  the  role,  but 
was  told  instead  to  go  to  Joshua  Logan's 
office.  There,  he  was  promptly  hired  as 
Ethel  Merman's  younger  brother  in  "Annie 
Get  Your  Gun."  Then,  important  parts 
in  some  of  Broadway's  top  hits  followed 
—"The  Happy  Time,"  "Bernardine," 
"Take  a  Giant  Step,"  "Anniversary  Waltz" 
and,  recently,  "A  Room  Full  of  Roses." 
...  On  TV,  Warren  has  appeared  on  You 
Are  There  and  was  the  star  in  "A  Night 
Visitor,"  on  Star  Tonight.  The  son  of 
Frieda  and  Elia  Berlinger,  Warren  enjoys 
most  sports  and  he  is  especially  proud  of 
his  stamp  collection.  One  day  he  hopes 
to  be  able  to  produce  and  direct  plays — 
and  do  a  little  writing  on  the  side. 
(Continued  on  page   25) 


New!  BOBBI- 


u 


with  Casual  Curlets" 
and  breeze -fresh  lotion 


gives  you  a  longer  lasting, 
softly  feminine  wave 

A  stronger  wave  than  ordinary  pin -curl  permanents 
a  softer  wave  than  rod-type  permanents 

Specially  created  for  casual  hair  styles 


Everything  you  need  for  the  prettiest,  longest-lasting 
casual  hairdo  ever!  Fabulous  new  easy-set  "Casual 
Curlets".  ...  of  pretty  pink  plastic  .  .  .  simpler  than 
metal  pins!  New  breeze-fresh,  petal-pink  lotion,  so 
pleasant  to  use!  No  separate  neutralizer,  no  reset- 
ting. OnlyBOBBi  makes  a  pin-curl  permanent  so  easy ! 


JHpr 


See  how  casual  a  bobbi  wave  can  be!  You  know  it 
will  outlast  any  other  pin-curl  permanent  because  each 
curl  is  set  stronger  from  the  very  beginning  with  bobbi's 
new  "Casual  Curlets."  Use  Curlets  between  perma- 
nents, too  — for  a  longer-lasting  set  after  your  shampoo. 


Pin-curls  made  with  BOBBi's 
new  "Casual   Curlets".   .   . 

smooth,  firm,  no  loose  ends,  no 
crimp  marks  as  with  metal  pins. 
Specially  designed  for  a  stronger, 
longer-lasting  casual  wave ! 

New  "Casual  Curlets"  are  7 
ways  better  ! 

1.  Easier,  faster  than  metal  pins. 

2.  So  pretty— shell-pink  plastic— 
you  won't  want  to  hide  'em ! 

3.  Can't  rust  or  discolor  hair. 

4.  One  Curlet  holds  tight  for  bet- 
ter, stronger  waves— you  never 
need  two  for  a  curl ! 

5.  Can't  slip. 

6.  No  unsightly  crimp  marks. 

7.  Curlets  are  curved  — shaped  to 
your  head  for  comfort. 


:';  •"■":. 


All-new  BOBBI  in  a  bright  blue  box 

Each  package  complete  with  55  "Casual 
Curlets"  and  6  neckline  curlers. 


THANKS   FOR  A  FULL  LIFE 


Valley    youngsters    visit    "Andy"     for 
autographs,  advice — and  also  a  story. 


He's  only  been  an  avid  bowler  for  a 
year,  but  he  strikes  a   156  average. 


Retirement?  Andy  talks  of  rocking 
chairs,  but  how  could  he  sell  "Baby"! 


Stanley  Andrews,  the  "Old  Ranger"  of  Death  Valley  Days, 


Andy  raises  prize-winning  cattle,  flowers  and  dogs. 
Here,  he  romps  with  Baby  Midge  and  Fran's  Andy. 


Stanley  Andrews  first  conceived  the  idea  of  going  into 
show  business  when  he  was  a  high-school  student  in 
Chicago  and  was  also  studying  the  violin.  When  he 
broached  the  idea  to  his  father,  a  military  man,  the 
violin  lessons  stopped  abruptly.  "In  those  days,"  he 
grins,  "if  you  mentioned  the  theater — or  smoked  a 
cigarette — you  were  on  your  way  to  Hades."  .  .  .  "Andy" 
never  did  become  a  fiddler,  but  he  can  look  back  on  a 
quarter  of  a  century  in  show  business.  For  the  past  four 
years,  he's  been  seen  on  television  as  the  "Old  Ranger" 
in  Death  Valley  Days.  Each  week,  Andy  introduces  an 
authentic  dramatization  of  pioneer  days,  narrates  the 
story  and  then  summarizes  it,  telling  in  his  own  words 
what  he  thinks  of  it.  His  silver  hair  tops  a  robust  frame 
and  Andy's  eyes  still  twinkle  as  he  admits  that,  while  he 
could  never  agree  with  his  father  about  the  theater,  he 
did  agree  for  a  long  time  about  cigarettes.  .  .  .  He  didn't 
change  his  mind  until  the  first  day  of  rehearsals  for 
"Peg  O'  My  Heart,"  in  Omaha,  Nebraska.  He'd  "taken  a 
shine"  to  one  of  the  girls  in  the  show — until  she  asked  if 
Andy  wouldn't  mind  getting  a  package  of  cigarettes  for 
her.  "I  was  one  of  those  strait-laced  kids,"  Andy  ad- 
mits, "and  I  said  to  myself,  'I  can't  have  anything  to  do 
with  a  girl  who  smokes!'  "...  But,  before  the  show  had 
ended  its  run,  Andy  had  managed  to  swallow  his  preju- 
dice. He  and  Frances  were  married  during  the  show, 
and  she's  still  "Peg  O'  His  Heart."  ...  As  newlyweds, 
Andy  and  Frances  decided  to  join  a  repertoire  troupe. 
In  those  days,  salaries  ran  around  five  dollars  a  week, 
so  it  took  them  two  years  of  saving  and  doing  without 
little  extras  to  be  able  to  afford  the  costumes  and  other 
paraphernalia  they  needed  to  be  accepted  in  the  show. 
But  save  they  did,  until  one  day  Frances  counted  up 
their  money  and  announced  triumphantly,  "This  is  it, 
we  are  going  to  hit  out  for  Broadway  now."  .  .  .  But, 


m 


Midwestern    by    birth,    Stanley,    as   the    "Old    Ranger," 
is    kin    with    all    storytellers    who    keep    yesteryear   alive. 


counts  a  disaster  among  his  blessings 


in  their  second  week  with  the  show,  a  fire  destroyed 
everything  Frances  and  Andy  had  saved  so  long  to  buy. 
At  the  time,  it  was  a  great  blow,  but  Andy  looks  back 
now  and  says:  "It  was  one  of  the  best  things  that  ever 
happened  to  me.  We  saved  for  that  show,  but  I  think 
now,  all  the  hard  work  and  the  extra  effort  we  put  in  to 
make  that  extra  money,  it  was  that  experience  that  has 
put  money  in  our  bank  account,  that  has  put  us  where 
we  are  today.  We  have  our  health,  we've  had  a  full  life 
— thanks  mostly  to  that  extra  two  years  of  work  we  put 
in  when  we  were  young."  .  .  .  During  the  war,  the 
Andrews'  toured  Europe,  playing  before  more  than 
600,000  soldiers.  In  Italy,  Frances  picked  up  a  virus 
which  spread  until  it  finally  became  necessary  to  cut 
into  her  vocal  chords.  Now  Frances  uses  "false  vocal 
chords,"  but  Andy  says  she  has  never  complained. 
"She's  a  spunky  little  Irishman,"  he  explains.  Some- 
times, he  berates  himself  for  having  taken  her  on  the 
tour.  "No,  don't  you  fret  about  it,  I  don't  regret  it  a  bit," 
Frances  tells  him.  "The  happiness  that  we  brought  to 
the  boys  .  .  .  makes  it  up  to  me."  .  .  .  Their  San  Fernando 
Valley  ranch,  "Derbyridge,"  was  Frances's  idea.  "My 
wife  and  I  are  looking  for  a  rocking  chair  and  a  pair  of 
slippers  about  now,"  Andy  says.  But  neither  Mr.  nor  Mrs. 
Andrews  is  ever  likely  to  be  type-cast  as  a  rocking-chair 
character.  ...  In  addition  to  the  normal  ranch  chores, 
they  raise  English  bulldogs  of  champion  quality.  Their 
cattle  are  prize  winners  and  so  are  their  chrysanthe- 
mums. They  have  nephews  and  nieces  who  are  a  great 
joy  to  them.  And,  besides  their  actual  kin,  they've 
adopted  the  youngsters  in  the  Valley,  a  number  of 
whom  are  always  dropping  by  for  autographs  ...  to 
enlist  Andy's  aid  in  some  school  activity  .  .  '.  to  pick  up 
a  few  pointers  on  acting  careers  ...  to  hear  a  story  .  .  . 
or  just  to  say  hello.  It's  still  a  full  life  for  the  Andrews'. 


Met  and  married  on  the  stage,  Frances  ("a  spunky 
little  Irishman")  and  Andy  are  a  team  at  gardening. 


When  Andy  doesn't  have  an  early  studio  call,  he  and 
Frances  share  a  light  breakfast  before  ranch  chores. 


Mr.  and  Mrs.  Andrews  agree:  "Tangerines  are  never 
better  than  when  you  grow  and  pick  'em  yourself." 


By  JOAN   WALLACE 


It's    fun    and   sunshine   time,    and    we've 

got  lots  of  interesting  new  records  on 
hand  for  vacation  listening. 

Let's  tee  off  with  The  Ames  Brothers 
and  their  latest  album,  "Exactly  Like 
You."  The  brothers  have  chosen  some 
wonderful  standards,  both  ballad  and 
beat.  There  are  twelve  tunes,  including 
such  sentimental  oldies  as  "Don't  Blame 
Me,"  "I  Hadn't  Anyone  Till  You,"  "You're 
Driving  Me  Crazy,"  "You  Were  Meant 
for  Me,"  and  the  title  song.  Joe  Reisman 
conducts  the  orchestra.    (Victor) 

Kay  Starr  has  a  new  coupling  which 
could  be  a  follow-up  hit  to  her  "Rock  and 
Roll  Waltz."  Kay  does  "Second  Fiddle" 
and  "Love  Ain't  Right,"  with  Joe  Reis- 
man's  orchestra  and  chorus.  On  the  first 
side,  a  ballad,  Kay  belts  out  the  lyrics  in 
her  usual  strong  style.  And  on  the  second, 
she  gives  it  the  fast  and  furious  Starr 
treatment.   (Victor) 

If  you  go  for  collectors'  items,  Columbia 
has  a  "must"  release  with  three  separate 
albums  by  three  great  artists  in  the  pop 
music  field:  "The  Louis  Armstrong  Story," 
"The  Bix  Beiderbecke  Story"  and  "The 
Bessie  Smith  Story."  Each  set  is  done  up 
in  four  volumes,  and  each  has  emerged 
as  a  musical  biography  of  each  artist. 

Lonnie  Donegan,  the  English  lad  who 
sounds  like  an  American  country-and- 
Western  singer,  and  was  such  a  smash 
with  his  "Rock  Island  Line,"  bids  for 
favor  again  with  his  second  American  re- 
lease. Lonnie  does  a  folk  tune,  "Lost 
John,"  and  a  musical  yarn  about  a  horse, 
"Stewball."    (Mercury) 

Al  Hibbler  has  an  album,  titled  simply, 
"Starring  Al  Hibbler,"  in  which  the  popular 


10 


Doris  Day  waxes  philosophical  in  a  song 
from  "The  Man  Who  Knew  Too  Much." 


blind  baritone  sings  twelve  old  standards. 
Included  are  such  perennials  as  "You'll 
Never  Know,"  "Night  and  Day,"  "Pen- 
nies From  Heaven,"  "September  in  the 
Rain"  and  "Where  Are  You."   (Decca) 

Kay  Armen's  beautiful  voice  is  particu- 
larly effective  in  a  pretty  new  love  song, 
"Love  Is  You,"  accompanied  by  Joe  Lip- 
man's  orchestra.  On  the  backing,  Kay 
sings  an  inspirational  song,  "Tenderly  He 
Watches,"  with  vocal  assistance  from  The 
Ray  Charles  Singers.   (M-G-M) 

If  you  can't  get  away  for  vacation,  take 
some  musical  trips  via  Decca's  "Your 
Musical  Holiday"  albums.  They  intro- 
duced this  series  last  year,  with  great 
success,  and  now  they've  added  some  new 
locales:  "Holiday  in  the  Dominican  Re- 
public," featuring  the  dances  of  Santo 
Domingo,  "Holiday  in  the  South,"  "In 
Mexico,"  "In  Spain,"  "In  New  York"  and 
"In  Barcelona."  Each  set  is  all-instru- 
mental and  most  of  them  were  recorded 
in  the  actual  place,  with  native  musicians. 
Eddie  Fisher  sings  out  a  new  ballad 
with  an  old-time  flavor,  "Sweet  Heart- 
aches," and  this  Victor  disc  just  could  be 
the  hit  Eddie  has  been  wishing  for.  The 
reverse  is  "On  the  Street  Where  You 
Live,"  the  popular  ballad  from  the  Broad- 
way musical,  "My  Fair  Lady."  Vic  Da- 
mone  also  has  a  good  record  of  "On  the 
Street,"  on  the  Columbia  label. 

Rock  'n'  Roll  fans  should  go  for  Vicki 
Young's  waxing  of  "I'm  All  Shook  Up," 
an  amusing  rhythm  song  which  she  sings 
with  a  strong  beat.  On  the  flip  side,  Vicki 
goes  slow  with  a  moving  ba"^d,  "Let 
There  Be  You."    (Capitol) 

Another  rock  'n'  roller,  this  one  by  Pat 
Boone,  who  seems  to  get  more  popular 
with  each  record.  Pat  drives  hard  on  the 
oldie,  "I  Almost  Lost  My  Mind,"  and  "I'm 
in  Love  With  You,"  a  recent  ballad.  (Dot) 
Les  Elgart  has  been  riding  along  for 
several  years  now  with  one  of  the  coun- 
try's most  successful  dance  bands,  notable 
for  the  fact  he  has  never  used  a  piano. 
Now  Les  had  added  a  keyboard  musician, 
at  least  for  one  record,  and  it's  a  good 
one — "Poor  Pianist  of  Paris,"  adapted  from 
the  well-known  French  melody,  "Le 
Piano  du  Pauvre."  Done  Elgart  style,  it 
has  a  honky-tonk  feeling.  The  flip  is 
"The  Left  Bank,"  also  adapted  from  the 
French,  "C'est  A  Hambourg."  (Columbia) 
The  unique  vocal  style  of  Roberta  Sher- 
wood gets  wonderful  exposure  in  her  first 
album,  "Introducing  Roberta  Sherwood." 
This  is  the  girl  who  was  singing  in  Miami 
Beach  night  clubs  and  impressed  col- 
umnists Walter  Winchell,  Louis  Sobol  and 
others  so  much  that  they  kept  plugging 
for  some  record  company  to  grab  her. 
Decca  did,  and  now  it  looks  as  if  they 
have  a  big  star  on  their  hands.  Her  first 
single  release,  "I  Got  Lost  in  His  Arms" 
and  "Up  a  Lazy  River,"  did  very  well, 
and  is  included  in  her  first  album.  Roberta 
also  sings  such  things  as  "Gee,  But  I 
Hate  To  Go  Home  Alone,"  "The  Glory  of 
Love"  and  "I  Miss  You  Most  of  All." 


Les  Elgart  adds  a   piano  for  the  first 
time,  in  his  new  disc  of  French  songs. 


M-G-M  is  releasing  another  album  by 
the  late  Hank  Williams,  "I  Saw  the  Light." 
They  have  collected  twelve  inspirational 
and  religious  songs  recorded  by  the  tal- 
ented performer- composer  before  his  un- 
timely death  a  few  years  ago  at  the  age 
of  twenty-nine.  The  Williams  voice  is 
heard  on  such  selections  as  "Jesus  Re- 
membered Me,"  "When  God  Comes  and 
Gathers  His  Jewels"  and  "The  Angel  Of 
Death." 

Those  barber-shop  singing  gals,  The 
Chordettes,  do  it  up  ballad  style  on  their 
newest  twosome,  "Born  To  Be  With  You" 
and  "Love  Never  Changes,"  with  Archie 
Bleyer's  orchestra.  "Born  To  Be  With 
You"  has  an  appealing  hymn-like  quality, 
and  may  be  the  big  side.     (Cadence) 

Of  special  interest  is  Victor's  announce- 
ment of  an  unlimited  edition  of  the  Nine 
Beethoven  Symphonies,  performed  by  the 
NBC  Orchestra  under  the  direction  of 
Arturo  Toscanini.  These  were  recorded 
in  1953  and  released  at  that  time  as  a 
limited  edition,  selling  for  $52.40.  Now, 
because  of  the  continued  demand  for  these 
works,  they  are  packaged  in  the  unlimited 
edition,  and  the  price  is  $27.98. 

Doris  Day's  newest  disc  combines  "Que 
Sera  Sera"  (Whatever  Will  Be  Will  Be) 
and  "I've  Got  To  Sing  Away  These 
Blues,"  with  Frank  De  Vol's  orchestra  on 
the  first  and  Van  Alexander's  on  the 
second.  "Que  Sera  Sera"  is  a  philosophi- 
cal ballad  from  "The  Man  Who  Knew 
Too  Much,"  the  movie  in  which  Doris 
co-stars  with  Jimmy  Stewart.   (Columbia) 

All  the  original  musical  scores  created 
by  composer-conductor  David  Broekman 
for  the  Wide  Wide  World  TV  show  are 
now  available  in  an  album,  "Music  From 
Wide  Wide  World."  In  addition  to  the 
lovely  Wide  Wide  World  theme,  such 
compositions  as  "Cable  Car  San  Francis- 
co," "Palm  Beach  Waltz,"  "Carlsbad  Cav- 
erns," "Texas  Cowboy,"  "Autumn  in  Ne- 
braska," "Grandma  Moses,"  "Grand  Can- 
yon Music"  and  "Down  to  the  Sea"  have 
been  recorded  by  Broekman's  orchestra. 
All  these  were  written  especially  for  the 
program's     roving     live-camera     reports. 


vlOHTUPA^ 


^UtaHif 


MAN  OVERBOARD  ...  for  a 
great  cigarette ...  for  the  taste 
only  a  Lucky  can  give  you. 
Luckies  taste  better  because 
they're  made  of  fine  tobacco 
.  .  .  light,  naturally  good-tast- 
ing tobacco  that's  TOASTED 
to  taste  even  better.  You'll 
say  a  Lucky  is  the  best-tast- 
ing cigarette  you  ever  smoked. 


LUCKIES 
TASTE  BETTER 

CLEANER,  FRESHER,  SMOOTHER! 


©A 


T.  Co.         PRODUCT  OF      fjfa  iWm&lueam  >J<rf<ie£<r-<Xrnyia7W     AMERICA'S  LEADING  MANUFACTURER  OF  CIGARETTES 


T 
V 

R 
11 


Everybody  says  "Uncle"  as  Joe  Bova 

and  his  five  alter-egos 

delight  the  young-at-heart  on  W ABC-TV 


Mr.  Blooper 


Mr.  Lob-Dob 


Ped 


ro 


Waldo 


12 


Enjoy  what  the  kids  enjoy — that's  Joe's  TV  theory.    Here, 
he  practices  it  on   Uncle  Joe   Bova   Day  at  Palisades   Park. 


TIME    FOR   RUN 


Rembrandt 


Next  to  Uncles  Sam  and  Miltie, 
Uncle  Joe  Bova  may  have  more 
nephews  and  nieces  than  anybody. 
Or  is  it  anybodies — since  Joe  com- 
bines quick-change  artistry  with  a 
split  personality?  .  .  .  Not  counting 
the  mothers,  who  aren't  revealing 
their  ages  for  publication,  Joe's  audi- 
ence on  Time  For  Fun — seen  week- 
days at  noon  on  New  York's  Station 
WABC-TV — ranges  from  three  to 
twelve.  They  know  it's  always  Joe, 
no  matter  what  the  makeup.  Part  of 
the  sheer  theatrical  fun  of  this  pro- 
gram of  games  and  stories  is  watch- 
ing Joe  in  the  game  of  "dressing  up!" 
...  A  pair  of  specs  and  overalls,  and 
Joe  becomes  Mr.  Blooper,  a  genial 
handyman.  A  mustache  and  bowler 
hat,  and  he's  the  sad  Mr.  Lob-Dob. 
A  serape  and  a  sombrero,  and  there's 
Pedro,  a  friendly  Mexican  boy  filled 
with  six-year-old  wonderment.  A 
battered  hat  and  patchwork  suit,  and 
there's  the  farcical  Waldo  the  Clown. 
A  pair  of  floppy  ears  and  a  balloon- 
like nose,  and  there's  Rembi^andt  the 
Spaniel.  ...  A  T-shirt  and  derby  and 
there's  Uncle  Joe  himself,  teaching 
dancing  to  youngsters — and  their 
mothers  .  .  .  telling  stories  .  .  .  and 
suggesting,  in  ways  far  more  effec- 
tive than  obvious  preaching,  that  his 
young  friends  be  on  good  behavior. 
.  .  .  Joe  is  a  bachelor  with  a  natural 


talent  for  "fathering."  He  likes  chil- 
dren. He  understands  them.  He's 
never  forgotten  what  it  was  like  to 
be  a  child  himself,  back  in  Cleveland, 
Ohio.  At  10,  Joe  began  an  acting  and 
dancing  career  on  a  home-town  radio 
station.  After  playing  leads  in  high- 
school  plays,  he  won  the  Edgar  Ber- 
gen Scholarship  to  Northwestern 
University.  He  sandwiched  in  three 
years  with  the  Army,  then  gradu- 
ated in  1948  and  went  to  work  in 
Cleveland  radio.  He  was  WNBK 
program  director  when,  in  1953,  a 
children's  show  was  in  the  planning 
stage.  Joe  auditioned  on  Friday, 
started  before  the  cameras  on  Mon- 
day. Its  popularity  in  Cleveland 
brought  the  show  to  New  York, 
where  it's  directed  by  John  Paul 
Jones,  produced  by  Daniel  Wilson — 
and  still  as  spontaneous  as  when  it 
started.  .  .  .  Joe  lives  in  a  bachelor 
apartment  off  Central  Park  West.  He 
alternates  on  a  cycle  of  his  own 
cooking  and  restaurant  fare.  He  en- 
joys golf,  swimming,  and  theater- 
going and  makes  personal  appear- 
ances at  supermarkets.  .  .  .  Both  the 
Polo  Grounds  and  the  Palisades 
Amusement  Park  have  celebrated 
Uncle  Joe  Bova  days.  Conversely, 
Joe  likes  New  York.  "A  city  is  the 
friends  you  have  there,"  he  says.  Joe's 
are  "mostly  with  lots  of  children." 


r 


-* 


ALL  DAY  I0NG...FOR  EVERY  SUMMER  ACTIVITY/ 


-'^Exclusive  criss-  *Exclusive  bias-cut  *Elastic  back  sets 

cross  elastic  front  elastic  side  panels  low,  won't  ride  up. 

dips  low,  holds             self-adjust  to  Elastic  front 

the  separation.  your  every  motion.  band  stays  smooth. 


To  score  on  form,  wear  Playtex  white  Bandeau. 
Elastic  side  panels  assure  heavenly  comfort .' 


Cycle  all  day  in  style  and  comfort.'  Playtex 
Living  Bra  rounds  your  curves  perfectly/ 


PLAYTEX  J%mg  BRA 

Won't  shift,  slide  or  ride  ever.'  Glorious  for  sports  .  .  .  and  glori- 
fies your  fashions.'  No  other  bra  allows  such  complete  freedom  for 
action.  All-elastic  body  self-adjusts  to  your  every  motion;  never  binds, 
never  rides  up.  Sculptured  nylon  cups  stay  high,  round  .  .  . 
divide  divinely,  support  superbly/  As  flattering  for  dates 
as  for  daytime  activities.  In  wonderfully  washable  white  or 
non-run  black.  Sizes  32A  to  40C,  $3.95.  D-Cups  slightly 
higher.  In  the  Playtex  package  at  your  favorite  store. 

Also  see  the  High  Style  Bra  in  "party -pretty"  cotton. 
White.  Only  $2.95. 


There's  sure  allure  with  your  Living®  Bra. 
Wonderful  under  all  your  summer  fashions .' 


©1950  by  International  Latex  Corporation  .  .  PLAYTEX  PARK  .  .  Dover  Del  -k  In  Canada:  Playtex  Ltd.  .  .  PLAYTEX  PARK  .  .  Arnprior,  Ont.  »o.  S.  pat.  Foreign  pats,  pendine. 


13 


NEW  DESIGNS  FOR  LIVING 


14 


7102 — Perfect  topping  tor  your  new  fash- 
ions— graceful  cape  crocheted  in  easy,  pret- 
ty pattern.  Directions  for  sizes  Small,  Me- 
dium, Large  included.  Use  3-ply  fingering 
yarn  or  mercerized  crochet  and  knitting 
cotton.    250. 

894 — Remnants  of  colorful  fabric  form 
the  pretty  petals  of  this  life-like  "flower" 
apron!  Embroidery  transfers,  directions 
for    making    apron    16    inches    long.     25$. 


7247 — Roses  in  vivid  color — combined 
with  a  background  of  your  favorite  pine- 
apple design!  Easy  to  crochet  as  a  stun- 
ning chair  or  buffet  set.  Chair-back  11x15 
inches,  armrest  6x8y2  inches  in  No.  30 
mercerized  cotton.    250. 

594 — Crochet  a  graceful  bowl  to  hold 
fruit  and  flowers — lovely  matching  doily 
beneath!  They're  worked  together — in  gay 
contrast  colors.  Doily-bowl  combination, 
or  17-inch  doily  alone;  quick  crochet  in 
jiffy  cotton.    Starch  bowl  for  stiffness.  250. 

857 — Brighten  kitchen  towels  with  these 
gay  motifs!  Seven  little  cherubs  to  em- 
broider— a  cheery  aid  for  each  day  of  the 
week.  Set  of  seven  different  transfers  in- 
cluded, each  design  about  6x6%  inches.  25tf. 

738 — Even  beginners  will  find  it  simple  to 
crochet  this  lovely  new  doily.  It's  all  done 
in  a  jiffy — in  favorite  pineapple  design. 
Crocheted  doily  19  inches  in  mercerized 
crochet  and  knitting  cotton;  smaller  one 
to  match.    250. 

7309 — Favorite  jumper — iron-on  flowers 
in  combination  of  pink  and  green  spark 
the  neckline  of  the  solid  color  version! 
Misses'  Sizes  12-20.  Tissue  pattern,  wash- 
able  color  transfers.    State   size.    25$. 


Send  twenty-five  cents  (in  coins)  for  each  pattern  to:  TV  Radio  Mirror,  Needlecraft  Service,  P.  0.  Box  137,  Old  Chelsea  Station, 
New  York  11.  New  York.  Add  five  cents  for  each  pattern  for  first-class  mailing.  Send  an  additional  250  for  Needlecraft  Catalog. 


" 


DONT  EVER 
SHAMPOO 
YOUR  HAIR 

without  putting  back  the  life  shampooing  and  hot  summer 
sun  take  outj  Restore  life, luster, manageability  instantly! 


If  you  always  hate  to  shampoo  your  hair  because  it  flies  all 
over  your  head  and  looks  terrible  for  days,  in  summer 
you've  got  a  double  problem ! 

Not  only  does  shampooing  make  your  hair  too  dry,  but 
the  hot  summer  sun  further  damages  it  and  dries  it  out. 

So  what  happens?  After  shampooing  your  hair,  you  have 
to  wait  days  and  days  for  the  natural  beauty  oils  to  come 
back.  Chances  are  . . .  just  when  your  hair  begins  to  look  and 
act  alive,  you  need  a  shampoo  again ! 

You  have  a  real  problem! 

Let's  face  the  facts:  At  this  time  of  year,  isn't  your  hair  so 
dry  most  of  the  time  that  you  can't  do  a  thing  with  it? 

Well,  why  don't  you  do  something  about  this? 

You  aren't  the  only  one  who  has  this  problem.  Millions  of 
women  hate  to  shampoo  their  hair  in  summer  for  exactly  the 
same  reason.  That's  why  Helene  Curtis  invented  suave. 
And  look  what  it  does. 

The  instant  you  finish  washing  and  drying  your  hair,  rub 
a  little  suave  over  your  palms,  and  stroke  through  your  hair 
thoroughly.  Then  brush  and  arrange  your  hair  .  . .  and  look 
at  the  amazing  difference ! 


Suddenly  your  hair  combs,  sets  and  arranges  like  magic! 
It's  manageable !  No  wild  wisps.  Dryness  is  gone ! 

A  miracle  has  happened! 

Your  hair  is  silky  soft,  bursting  with  highlights  .  .  .  with 
the  prettiest,  healthiest-looking  glow  you  ever  saw ! 

And  it  stays  wonderfully  in  place,  without  the  slightest 
oily  look  or  feel! 

That's  the  miracle  of  Helene  Curtis'  beauty  discovery — 
greaseless  lanolin — now  in  new  suave  ...  a  hair  dressing  so 
wonderful  that  it  makes  your  hair  soft,  beautiful,  radiant  and 
manageable  in  20  seconds  after  shampoo,  even  in  summer! 

So  do  as  Helene  Curtis  tells  you 

"No  matter  if  you  are  16  or  60,  don't  ever  shampoo  your  hair 
again  without  using  suave  to  restore  the  beauty  oils  you 
have  just  washed  out.  Do  this,  and  I  promise  you  your  hair 
will  look  so  radiantly  beautiful,  so  satin-soft,  so  eager  to 
wave,  you'll  get  compliments  galore!" 

Start  using  suave  today!  Choose  the  famous  liquid  or 
the  new  creme  suave,  whichever  type  you  prefer.  At  any 
cosmetic  counter. 


Copyri9h»  1955  H.C.I. 


HELENE  CURTIS 

uave 


HAIRDRESSING  &  CONDITIONER 


Choose  Liquid 
or  new  Creme 

594  °nd  $1 

(plus  tax) 


♦Trademark* 


15 


From  news  to  sports  to  turntable, 
Gus  Saunders  makes  for  Easy  Listenin 
on  WNAC  and  the  Yankee  Network 


Gus  Saunders  married  the  boss's  daughter,  Mary,  . 
and  they  live  happily  afterwards.    She  understands  his 
work,  poses  for  his  camera — and  shares  the  kitchen. 


TRIPLE  PLAY  IN  BOSTON 


16 


What's  in  a  name?  Plenty!  In  the  case  of  Gus 
Saunders,  the  name  of  his  record  show  is  Easy 
Listenin',  heard  weekdays  from  2  to  3  P.M.  and 
Saturday  from  9: 15  to  noon  on  Boston's  Station 
WNAC.  The  name  says  it  all — and  could  do  triple 
duty  describing  Gus's  news,  sports  and  special 
events  chores,  as  well.  Gus  relays  the  headlines  on 
Tuesday  and  Thursday  at  7:30  A.M.  and  beams  his 
newscasts  to  the  Yankee  Network  on  Tuesday  and 
Thursday  at  7:15  and  8  A.M.  and  on  Saturday  at 
9  A.M.  Occasionally,  he's  also  visible,  on  WNAX- 
TV,  handling  commercials,  commenting  on  fashion, 
and  pinch -hitting  for  Louise  Morgan.  .  .  .  Noted  for 
his  knack  with  an  interview  or  an  ad  lib,  Gus  first 
caught  mike  fever  via  his  high-school  broadcasting 
club.  Then  radio  turned  out  to  be  a  fine  way  to 
work  his  way  through  Harvard.  On  his  very  first 
audition,  Gus  won  a  berth  on  WMEX.  A  dozen 
years  ago,  he  joined  WNAC,  covering  fall-by-fall 
wrestling  and  blow-by-blow  boxing.  He  scooped 
every  wire  service  with  his  on-the-scene  reporting, 
from  a  Coast  Guard  plane,  of  the  famous  Bar  Har- 
bor, Maine  fire.  His  on-the-spot  coverage  of  the 
Worcester  tornado  and,  more  recently,  his  exclu- 
sive interviews  during  the  Charlestown  State  Prison 


break,  won  national  acclaim.  ...  It  was  a  headline 
event,  the  fuel  shortage,  that  introduced  Gus  to 
his  wife  Mary.  When  Mary's  high  school  closed 
down  for  six  weeks,  she  took  to  visiting  at  WMEX, 
which  her  parents  owned.  Gus  married  the  boss's 
daughter,  who's  also  a  radio  programmer.  .  .  .  The 
Saunders'  live  in  a  six-room  ranch  house  in  Waban, 
a  suburb  of  Newton,  Massachusetts.  There's  a 
workshop  for  Gus's  woodworking  and  a  built-in 
darkroom  for  his  photography  hobby.  Both  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  use  the  kitchen,  and  Gus  also  has  a  fine 
knowledge  of  vintage  wines.  .  .  .  When  Arthur 
Godfrey  was  in  Boston  for  his  hip  operation,  he  and 
Gus  had  much  to  talk  about.  Several  years  back, 
Gus  had  the  same  doctor,  the  same  hospital  room 
and  the  same  hip  operation,  the  result  of  a  football 
injury.  .  .  .  As  an  undergraduate  at  Harvard,  Gus 
majored  in  economics  and  government  and  acquired 
a  reading  and  speaking  knowledge  of  Italian,  French 
and  Spanish.  Recently,  he  completed  graduate 
courses  in  history  and  government,  with  an  eye  to 
an  eventual  news-analyst  post.  The  knowledge  also 
comes  in  handy  at  the  travel  agency  he  runs  in 
Boston.  Although  he  plots  faraway  trips  for  others, 
Gus  himself  stays  within  Easy  Listenin'  distance. 


r 


You  can't  see  what's  happening 
underneath  your  make-up' 


But  you  can  be  sure  invisible 

skin  bacteria  won't  spoil  your 

complexion  —  if  you  wash 

with  Dial  Soap! 


Ordinary  good  soaps  wash  away  dirt  and  make-up.  But 
they  leave  thousands  of  skin  bacteria.  You  can't  see  or  feel 
them.  But  when  you  put  on  fresh  make-up,  these  bacteria  are 
free  to  spread  surface  blemishes  underneath. 

But  daily  washing  with  Dial  Soap  not  only  removes  dirt 
and  make-up— but  clears  away  up  to  95%  of  blemish-spreading 
bacteria!  Then  Dial  keeps  on  working  —  underneath  your 
make-up!   So  your  complexion  is  protected  all  day! 

What's  Dial's  secret?  It's  AT-7  —  the  most  effective  bac- 
teria remover  known!  So  before  you  make-up  —  wash  up 
with  mild,  gentle  Dial  Soap. 


1 


Dial  Soap  protects  your 

complexion— even  under  make-up! 


P. S.  Dial  Shampoo  gives  you  that  diamond  sparkle  look! 


17 


The  Hansens — Robin  Morgan,  Judson  Loire,  Peggy  Wood  as 
Mama,  Dick  Van  Patten,  Rosemary  Rice — may  be  off  this  fall. 


One  Man's  Family — J.  Anthony  Smythe,   Bernice 
Berwin,  Mary  Adams — starts  its  25th  year  on  radio. 


WHAT'S  NEW  FROM  COAST  TO 


By  JILL   WARREN 


18 


Network  executives  may  caucus  in 
smoke-filled  rooms — or  maybe 
they  don't.  Certainly,  when  and  where 
they  do  meet  to  discuss  programming, 
letters  from  their  audience  get  a  very 
thorough  airing.  Most  listeners  and 
viewers  fail  to  realize  that  they  can  get 
the  kind  of  programming  they  want  just 
by  speaking  up.  There  is  audience  suf- 
frage— and  here's  a  chance  to  exercise 
it.  As  the  schedule  now  stands,  Mama — 
which  has  won  a  TV  Radio  Mirror  gold 
medal  every  year  since  its  first  season 
in  1949 — will  be  missing  from  the  fall 
TV  picture.  Perhaps  some  of  the  readers 
who  voted  for  Mama  in  our  nationwide 
poll  would  like  to  cast  another  vote  for 
the  Hansens  by  writing  to  CBS -TV,  485 
Madison  Ave.,  New  York,  N.  Y. 

Viewers  were  urged  to  overburden 
the  willing  mailmen — and  also  use  the 
phones — when  Dean  Martin  and  Jerry 
Lewis,  appearing  this  month  at  the 
Copa,  did  a  Muscular  Dystrophy  tele- 
thon over  Du  Mont's  New  York  chan- 
nel, WABD.  People  in  other  parts  of 
the  country  who  didn't  see  the  telethon 
may  send  their  contributions  to:  Insti- 
tute for  Muscle  Disease,  P.O.  Box  526, 
New  York  8,  N.  Y. 

With  vacation  time  upon  us,  summer 
replacements  and  the  usual  changes  of 
shows  and  schedules  are  ditto.  The  Paul 
Whiteman  Show  is  a  Tuesday-night 
musical  half  hour  on  NBC -TV.  "Pops" 
presents  a  name  star  as  his  guest,  who 
in  turn  introduces  a  newcomer-protege. 


Dick  Powell  returns  to  TV  on  NBC, 
Friday  night,  July  13,  with  a  half-hour 
program  called  Best  In  Mystery.  Dick 
takes  over  for  The  Big  Story,  which 
returns  August  31. 

Robert  Montgomery  Presents  changes 
format  on  Monday  nights,  switching 
from  a  big-star  policy  to  the  Mont- 
gomery Stock  Company.  Repertory  ac- 
tors, including  Jan  Miner,  Charles 
Drake,  Tom  Middleton,  and  Elizabeth 
Montgomery,  will  take  over  for  the 
summer  in  hour-long  productions. 

Peter  hind  Hayes  substitutes  for  Ar- 
thur Godfrey  on  Godfrey's  daytime 
radio  and  television  shows  on  CBS,  be- 
ginning July  30  for  at  least  six  weeks, 
maybe  more.  And  Bob  Crosby  will 
emcee   Talent  Scouts  from  Hollywood. 

Screen  Directors'  Playhouse  has 
moved  to  ABC-TV  and  will  be  seen 
Wednesday  nights.  On  the  July  11  show, 
Linda  Darnell  is  starred  in  "White 
Corridors,"  and  Michael  Wilding  will 
star  July  18,  in  "The  Carroll  Formula." 

CBS-TV's  Brave  Eagle  wasn't  brave 
enough  to  buck  the  terrific  Disneyland 
rating  on  Wednesday  nights,  so  the  net- 
work hopes  to  distract  the  small  fry 
from  Disneyland  with  a  new  show,  Car- 
toon Theater,  featuring  Dick  Van  Dyke, 
formerly  of  The  Morning  Show. 

World  Music  Festival,  on  CBS  Radio, 
Sunday  afternoons,  has  scheduled  some 
interesting  programs  for  July.  On  the 
8th  and  15th,  they  will  present  the 
Sibelius  Festival,  recorded  in  Helsinki, 


Finland.  Gerard  Souzay,  the  French 
baritone,  will  be  featured,  and  the  con- 
ductor will  be  Jussi  Jalas,  the  son-in- 
law  of  the  famous  Finnish  composer.  On 
July  22nd  and  29th,  the  Ojai  Music 
Festival,  from  Ojai,  California,  will  be 
broadcast.  Igor  Stravinsky  will  conduct 
his  own  work,   "Les  Niches." 

The  July  20th  Crossroads  show,  on 
ABC-TV,  will  present  "Mightier  Than 
the  Sword,"  with  Carl  Benton  Beid.  It 
is  the  true  story  of  a  Baptist  minister 
who  smuggled  Bibles  behind  the  iron 
curtain  from  West  Berlin. 

Another  interesting  show  on  ABC- 
TV  will  be  seen  on  Bold  Journey,  the 
documentary  adventure  series,  Monday 
night,  July  16.  The  title  is  "Woman  of 
the  Rivers,"  and  it's  the  story  of  a  real 
person,  Mrs.  Georgie  White,  who  is 
affectionately  known  in  the  Pacific 
Northwest  as  the  "River  Rat,"  because 
of  her  career  and  experiences  along  the 
Salmon  and  Snake  Rivers.  John  Steven- 
son will  be  the  narrator. 

NBC  has  a  big  summer  spectacular 
coming  up  on  Producers'  Showcase, 
Monday  night,  July  23.  It's  an  hour- 
and-a-half  production  of  "Rosalinda," 
based  on  the  opera  "Die  Fledermaus," 
with  the  music  by  Johann  Strauss.  The 
cast  includes  Cyril  Bitchard,  Jean  Fenn 
and  Lois  Hunt. 

Howdy  Doody  has  become  a  half- 
hour  Saturday  morning  summer  show 
on  NBC-TV,  with  new  features  and 
characters.    There'll    also    be    a    seven- 


mi^m 


Cast  as  Sid  Caesar's  TV  wife,  pert 
Janet    Blair   contemplates    fall    fun. 


Going  to  bat  against  muscular  dystrophy,  zany  Jerry  Lewis  and   Dean 
Martin  clowned  through  a  telethon  on  New  York's  Du  Mont  station,  WABD. 


piece  musical  combination  called  "The 
Howdy  Doodlers,"  and  some  new  ad- 
venture cartoons.  Howdy,  which  was 
television's  original  and  longest-run- 
ning children's  program,  started  on 
NBC  December  27,  1947,  but  after  all 
these  years  as  a  Monday-through-Fri- 
day afternoon  program,  it  finally  went 
off  the  weekday  schedule,  due  to  falling 
ratings.  Mickey  Mouse  Club  seems  to 
have  gathered  the  junior  viewers. 

This  'n'  That: 

Audrey  Meadows,  who  is  Alice 
Kramden  of  "The  Honeymooners," 
wired  her  TV  husband,  Jackie  Gleason, 
on  May  26:  "Dear  Ralph— So  sorry  but 
I'm  becoming  a  bigamist  today,  marry- 
ing Randy  Rouse.  Love,  Alice."  Aud- 
rey's father  performed  the  ceremony, 
sister  Jayne  was  matron  of  honor,  her 
husband,  Steve  Allen,  was  an  usher. 

Gary  Crosby,  Bing's  boy,  will  be  do- 
ing his  crooning  for  Uncle  Sam  for  a 
while  instead  of  on  records  and  TV. 
Gary's  twin  brothers,  Philip  and  Den- 
nis, are  also  in  the  Army,  and  the 
youngest,  Lindsay,  is  in  high  school. 

Jane  Froman  is  establishing  resi- 
dence in  Las  Vegas,  and  plans  to  di- 
vorce her  husband,  Capt.  John  Burns. 
He  was  the  pilot  who  saved  her  life  in 
the  tragic  Lisbon  plane  crash  during  the 
war.  Jane  hopes  to  be  on  TV  this  fall. 

One  Man's  Family  has  just  started  its 
twenty-fifth  year  on  the  air,  with  three 
of  the  original  seven  cast  members  still 


portraying  their  original  roles — J.  An- 
thony Smythe,  who  plays  "Father  Bar- 
bour," Page  Cilman,  as  son  "Jack," 
Bernice  Berwin  as  daughter  "Hazel." 

Also  celebrating  anniversaries  are 
When  A  Girl  Marries  an  J  The  Romance 
Of  Helen  Trent.  When  A  Girl  Marries 
has  just  started  its  eighteenth  year, 
with  Mary  Jane  Higby  still  playing  the 
lead,  as  she  did  in  1939  when  the  pro- 
gram began.  Helen  Trent  will  be  twen- 
ty-three years  old  July  24.  She  started 
out  her  long  run  in  Chicago,  with  Vir- 
ginia Clark  as  "Helen."  Then,  when  the 
program  moved  to  New  York  City  in 
1944,  Julie  Stevens  took  over  the  role. 

Songstress  Judy  Johnson,  of  the  Rob- 
ert Q.  Lewis  shows,  and  her  husband, 
Mort  Lindsay,  are  lullabying  a  baby 
boy.  Judy  plans  to  return  to  her  vocal 
chores  with  Robert  Q.  in  a  few  weeks. 

NBC  has  signed  Ray  Bolger,  Ken 
Murray,  Esther  Williams  and  impre- 
sario Sol  Hurok  to  their  contract  roster 
for  fall.  Bolger  will  star  in  his  own 
series,  Washington  Square,  an  hour- 
long  show  to  be  seen  on  Tuesday  nights. 
Murray,  as  producer-performer,  may  do 
a  variety  show.  Esther  Williams  will  star 
in  a  huge  aqua  spectacle  in  early  fall, 
with  NBC  also  financially  backing  the 
swim  queen  when  she  tours  Europe 
with  her  water  special  this  summer. 
Hurok  will  create  and  produce  special 
shows  for  NBC  this  coming  season.  He 
did  the  highly  successful  "The  Sleeping 
Beauty." 


Mulling  the  Mail: 

Mr.  G.  S.,  Selma,  Alabama:  Teresa 
Brewer  is  married,  and  has  three  chil- 
dren. Incidentally,  she  recently  won  the 
Annual  Catholic  Youth  Organization 
Award  for  1956,  "in  recognition  of  her 
talents  as  an  outstanding  Catholic  per- 
sonality in  the  realm  of  theatrical  arts, 
her  service  to  her  church  and  com- 
munity as  a  wife  and  mother."  .  .  . 
Mrs.  S.  MacD.,  Cohasset,  Massachu- 
setts: Orchestra  leader  Vaughn  Mon- 
roe is  not  scheduled  for  any  regu- 
lar TV  show  but  there  has  been  some 
talk  of  his  heading  up  a  variety  pro- 
gram in  the  fall.  He  is  currently  the 
voice  of  RCA  Victor  on  TV.  .  .  .  Mrs. 
F.  M.,  Arvada,  Colorado,  and  others  who 
inquired  about  Fibber  McGee  And  Mol- 
ly: Fibber  and  Molly  departed  the 
Weekday  program  on  NBC  Radio,  and 
Frances  Horwich  took  over  their  time. 
Presently  the  McGees,  alias  Jim  and 
Marian  Jordan,  are  doing  no  radio 
work,  but  their  possible  TV  show  may 
finally  get  started  this  fall.  .  .  .  The  "M" 
Club,  Grosse  Point,  Michigan:  Doretta 
Morrow,  who  starred  on  the  recent  TV 
production  of  "Marco  Polo,"  has  sung 
in  many  Broadway  shows,  and  had  the 
feminine  lead  in  "Kismet."  She  is  a 
Max  Liebman  discovery,  and  was  seen 
in  his  "Shooting  Star,"  which  never 
made  Broadway.  .  .  .  Mrs.  J.  L.,  Akron, 
Ohio:  Janet  Blair  is  the  girl  Sid  Caesar 
signed  to  replace  Nanette  Fabray  on 
Caesar's  Hour.   (Continued  on  page  21) 


19 


"X"  marks  his  spot  on  TV,  but  away 
from  the  cameras,  Barry's  happy  to  be 


-thft 


d 


SULLIVAN 


Barry's  no  longer  a  lone  star,  now  that  wife  Marie  has 
come  out  of  retirement.  But  the  spotlight  at  the  home 
of  the  Sullivans  is  really  focused  on  nine-year-old  Jenny. 


Hollywood  cast  Barry  in  outdoor  sagas,   musicals 
and  dramas.  On  TV,  he  plays  an  undercover  agent. 


20 


If  female,  international  spies  ought  to  be  svelte  and 
sinuous  as  Mata  Hari's  cigarette  holder.  If  male,  the 
espionage  experts  have  more  stringent  demands  for 
the  "perfect"  undercover  agent.  He  should  be  energetic 
and  enterprising,  rugged  and  resourceful,  a  keen  observ- 
er and  an  inspiring  leader.  "Ken  Thurston,"  whose  code 
name  is  "X,"  has  been  modeled  along  these  lines  and,  al- 
most as  a  matter  of  course,  Barry  Sullivan  was  chosen  to 
portray  Thurston  in  the  fascinating  and  frightening  dra- 
matic series,  The  Man  Called  X,  syndicated  by  Ziv  TV. 
...  If  "X"  marks  Barry's  spot  on  TV,  filmgoers  well  re- 
member him  in  roles  where  he  was  neither  undercover 
nor  international.  Patrick  Barry  Sullivan,  who  dropped 
his  first  name  in  a  bow  to  brevity,  is  a  scion  of  Cornelius 
Dan  Sullivan,  a  realtor  who  can  well  be  proud  of  all  six 
of  his  fine  sons.  Don  is  a  Catholic  priest;  Jerry,  a  fire- 
man; Neil,  a  banker;  Joe,  a  businessman;  and  Denny,  an 
ad  executive  with  the  New  York  Times.  The  third  son, 
Barry,  measures  in  at  six-foot-three  and  alternates 
heroes,  heavies  and  character  leads.  .  .  .  Born  August  29, 


in  New  York,  Barry  studied  law  at  New  York  and  Tem- 
ple Universities,  but  his  success  in  college  dramatics 
turned  him  from  juries  to  audiences.  When  summer- 
stock  seasons  left  Barry  long  on  experience  and  short  on 
cash,  he  balanced  the  budget  by  ushering,  selling  neck- 
ties and  canvassing  door-to-door.  Then  came  Broadway 
successes  and  a  summons  to  Hollywood.  .  .  .  Barry's  no 
longer  the  lone  star  in  his  family.  His  wife,  blond  Marie 
Brown,  has  come  out  of  retirement  to  appear  in  "D 
Day,  the  Sixth  of  June."  But  she  says  her  major  career 
still  is  ministering  to  the  wants  of  fourteen-year-old 
Johnny  and  nine-year-old  Jenny.  ...  A  starched  collar 
is  Barry's  pet  hate,  golf  his  favorite  sport.  He  loves  to 
paint,  but  eschews  canvas  for  the  sides  of  houses.  He 
recently  painted  his  own  house  his  favorite  color,  bright 
yellow,  and  he  resents  friends  who  call  him  "an  unme- 
chanical  type  fella."  In  reply,  Barry  tells  of  the  time  he 
took  his  father's  watch  apart,  put  it  back  together  and 
made  it  run.  There  were  even  two  parts  left  over — but 
keep  this  quiet;  remember,  enemy  ears  may  be  listening! 


WHAFS  NEW 

(Continued  from  page  19) 


Wed  to   realtor   Randy   Rouse,   Audrey 
Meadows    is    twice    a    "honeymooner." 


Nan  and  Sid  are  still  pals.  .  .  .  Mrs.  S.  R., 
Butte,  Montana:  Iris  Mann,  who  plays 
"Anna"  on  This  Is  Nora  Drake,  is  a  seven- 
teen-year-old veteran  who  used  to  be 
heard  regularly  as  a  little  girl  on  Hilltop 
House  and  Let's  Pretend.  .  .  ,  Mr.  B.  G., 
Pittsburgh,  Pennsylvania:  Gail  Davis,  who 
plays  Annie  Oakley,  and  songstress  Janette 
Davis  are  no  relation  whatsoever.  .  .  .  Mrs. 
O.  W.,  Tucson,  Arizona:  Jean  Hagen  re- 
signed her  role  as  Danny  Thomas's  TV 
wife  in  order  to  be  able  to  accept  other 
parts  offered  her — and  also  because  she 
found  the  work  schedule  for  "Make  Room 
for  Daddy"  too  confining.  The  parting  was 
completely  friendly.  Danny  hasn't  as  yet 
chosen  a  new  "wife"  for  his  program,  but 
Laraine  Day,  Jan  Sterling  and  Barbara 
Hale  are  all  being  considered. 

What  Ever  Happened  To  .  .  . 

Helen  Kane,  the  original  "Boop-Boop- 
Be-Doop"  girl,  who  was  a  big  vocal  star 
several  years  ago?  Helen  has  married  and 
lives  quietly  on  Long  Island.  A  few  months 
ago  she  appeared  on  the  Ed  Sullivan  Show, 
on  Steve  Allen's  Tonight,  and  played  the 
Palace  Theater  in  New  York  for  a  week. 
But  she  evidently  has  decided  not  to 
resume  her  career  on  a  full-time  basis. 

Martha  Stewart,  who  co-starred  with 
Pinky  Lee  on  the  Those  Two  TV  show  a 
few  years  ago?  The  petite  singer  hasn't 
worked  on  radio  or  TV  the  past  few 
months,  since  she  is  expecting  a  baby  in 
a  few  weeks.  She  is  now  married  to  David 
Shelly.  Martha  hopes  to  resume  singing 
after  the  birth  of  her  child. 

Dave  Rubinoff,  the  concert  violinst  who 
was  in  radio  years  ago  with  Rubinoff 
And  His  Violin"?  He  hasn't  been  too  active 
of  late,  and  has  been  living  in  Los  Angeles, 
making  occasional  appearances.  He  was 
recently  sued  for  divorce  by  his  wife, 
Mertice,   his   former   booking   manager. 


' 


If  you  have  a  question  about  one  of 
your  favorite  people  or  programs,  or 
wonder  what  has  happened  to  someone 
on  radio  or  television,  drop  me  a  line — 
Miss  Jill  Warren,  TV  Radio  Mirror, 
205  East  42nd  Street,  New  York  City  17, 
New  York,  and  I'll  try  my  best  to  find 
out  for  you  and  put  the  information  in 
the  column.  Unfortunately  we  don't 
have  space  to  answer  all  questions,  so  I 
try  to  cover  those  personalities  about 
whom  I  receive  the  most  inquiries. 
Sorry,  no  personal  answers,  so  please 
do  not  enclose  stamped  envelopes  or 
postage,   as    they    cannot    be    returned. 


What's  New  in 
Colgate  Dental  Cream 

has  MISSING- 
MISSING-MISSING 

in  every  other  leading 
toothpaste? 


**m 


W 


It's  Gardol ! 
And  No  Other  Toothpaste 
Helps  Protect  So  Many 
People  So  Effectively 
and  So  Safely  Against 
Both  Bad  Breath 
and  Tooth  Decay ! 


HOW  COLGATE'S  WITH   GARDOL 
FIGHTS  TOOTH   DECAY   AND   BAD   BREATH   ALL  DAY! 


GARd 


0L_ 


Unlike  other  leading  tooth- 
pastes, Colgate  Dental 
Cream  forms  an  invisible, 
protective  shield  around  teeth 
that  fights  decay  all  day !  Ask 
your  dentist  how  often  to 
brush  your  teeth.  But  remem- 
ber! One  Colgate  brushing 
fights  decay-causing  bacteria 
12  hours— or  more! 


Colgate's  with  Gardol  helps 
stop  bad  breath  all  day  for 

most  people  with  just  one 
brushing !  Instantly  sweeps 
away  bacteria  that  cause  bad 
breath  originating  in  the 
mouth . . .  gives  you  a  cleaner, 
fresher  breath  all  day!  And 
Colgate's  famous  flavor  is 
preferred  the  world  over! 


Colgate's  with  Gardol  is  safe— even  for 

children  under  six.  No  other  leading 
toothpaste*  can  give  you  long-lasting 
Gardol  protection,  with  such  complete 
safety  for  every  member  of  your  family ! 
No  other  company  can  match  Colgate's 
79  years  of  dentifrice  research! 


Cleans  Your  Breath 

While  It 

Guards  Your  Teeth 


SAFE  for  Children  of  All  Ages! 
SAFE  to  Use  in  All  Water  Areas! 
Makes  teeth  whiter— 
cannot  stain  or  discolor! 


THE  TOP  THREE  BRANDS  AFTER  COLGATE'S 


GARDOL   IS    COLGATE'S  TRADE-MARK 
FOR     SOOIUM     N-LAUROYL     SARCOSINATE. 


21 


All  programs  heard  Monday  through  Friday;  consult 


AS  THE  WORLD  TURNS  Chris's  un- 
married sister,  Edith,  has  been  a  bone  of 
contention  in  the  Hughes  household,  for 
Chris  and  his  wife  suspect  that  Edith 
offers  their  two  older  children  more  than 
understanding  and  small  gifts  to  win  their 
affection.  What  will  happen  if  they  learn 
that  Edith's  restlessness  stems  from  her 
own  dilemma — her  love  for  a  married 
man  who  is  Chris's  associate?  CBS-TV. 

AUNT  JENNY  Littleton  happens  to  be 
the  name  of  the  town  Aunt  Jenny  lives 
in.  But  the  stories  she  tells  could  take 
place  in  any  town,  for  they  are  about 
people  everyone  knows.  Sometimes  Aunt 
Jenny  follows  a  story  to  Metropole  or  even 
beyond,  but  she  has  never  yet  found  that 
life's  big  problems  differ  in  different 
places.  And  everywhere  people  meet  them 
much  as  her  neighbors  do.  CBS  Radio. 

BACKSTAGE  WIFE  Mary  Noble's  ten- 
sion increases  as  her  husband  Larry  re- 
fuses to  sever  ties  with  his  erratic  leading 
lady,  Erica.  On  the  grounds  that  Erica 
is  essential  to  the  continued  success  of 
the  play  in  which  Larry  stars,  he  contin- 
ues to  accept  her  strange  behavior — in 
spite  of  the  objections  not  only  of  Mary 
but  of  Erica's  husband,  Brad.  Can  Mary 
head  off  impending  tragedy?   CBS  Radio. 

THE  BRIGHTER  DAY  Of  all  the  Rev- 
erend Dennis's  children,  Althea  is  the  only 
one  he  knows  he  doesn't  understand.  Rest- 
less, unpredictable,  never  sure  what  she 
wants,  Althea  has  always  been  a  storm 
center.  What  is  she  after  as  she  plans  to 
settle  in  New  Hope?  Why  is  she  so  curi- 
ous about  her  sister  Babby  and  young 
minister  Stephen  Markley?  CBS-TV. 

DATE  WITH  LIFE  Is  marriage  really  the 
only  career  in  which  a  woman  finds  ful- 
fillment? Tom  Bradley,  editor  of  the  Bay 
City  News,  learned  one  woman's  answer 
when  Laura  Appleby  gave  up  her  glam- 
orous fashion  job  in  New  York  to  return 
to  Bay  City  as  a  wife  and  homemaker.  As 
with  most  of  the  stories  Tom  tells,  the 
most  important  part  of  Laura's  will  never 
make  headlines.  Tom  won't  print  it — but 
he  won't  forget  it,   either.  NBC-TV. 

THE  DOCTOR'S  WIFE  Julie  Palmer  has 
always  been  proud  of  her  capable  self- 
sufficiency,  bringing  to  her  job  as  a  doc- 
tor's wife  the  same  energy  as  to  an  im- 
portant   career.    But    since    the    Palmers 

J  moved  West,  Julie  has  had  cause  to  won- 
der rather  ruefully  if  she  wouldn't  be 
better  off  to  turn  herself  into  a  clinging- 
vine,  self-effacing  type  of  housewife. 
Would  that  be  easier  for  Dan?  NBC  Radio. 

22 


THE  EDGE  OF  NIGHT  Sara  Lane  de- 
cides to  ignore  her  mother's  unreason- 
able opposition  and  go  ahead  with  her 
engagement  to  Lieutenant  Mike  Karr.  But 
Mike  has  reason  to  suspect  that  Mrs.  Lane 
will  not  be  their  only  obstacle.  He  has 
already  tangled  with  Sara's  uncle,  Henry 
Lane,  enough  to  realize  that  sooner  or 
later  Lane's  business  activities  are  going 
to  be  important  to  him  as  a  detective. 
Will  Lane  make  Sara's  brother  Jack  a 
pawn?  CBS-TV. 

THE  GUIDING  LIGHT  In  spite  of  her 
sister-in-law  Bertha's  frank  hopes,  the 
recently-widowed  Meta  Roberts  contin- 
ues to  accept  Mark  as  a  pleasant,  attrac- 
tive friend.  But  not  even  Meta  herself 
foresees  the  strange  turn  this  friendship 
will  take.  Meanwhile,  Dr.  Dick  Grant  is 
also  working  at  friendship,  trying  to  fill  a 
need  in  Dr.  Jim  Kelly's  life — but  he  often 
wonders  wryly  if  Jim  will  ever  thank  him 
for  it.  CBS-TV  and  CBS  Radio. 

LOVE  OF  LIFE  Ever  since  the  first  days 
of  her  association  with  Hal  Craig,  Meg 
Harper  knew  he  was  dangerous.  But  not 
until  he  became  an  active  threat  to  her 
sister  Van  did  Meg  realize  Hal  was  not 
only  dangerous  but  unbalanced.  What  is 
the  secret  of  the  locket  glimpsed  by  little 
Carol,  the  child  Van  and  Paul  hope  to 
adopt?  Why  is  it  so  vital  to  Hal  that 
Carol  be  silenced — and  how  far  will  he  go 
to  accomplish  that?  CBS-TV. 

OUR  GAL  SUNDAY  Sunday's  happy 
marriage  to  Lord  Henry  is  threatened  by 
two  trouble-makers — one  sincerely  anx- 
ious for  her  welfare  and  one  grimly  de- 
termined to  ruin  it.  Bill  Hunter,  Sunday's 
childhood  friend,  is  so  certain  that  her 
simple  background  makes  her  a  misfit  as 
the  wife  of  an  English  nobleman  that  he 
has  almost  convinced  Sunday  herself.  And 
Cora  Harwood  is  more  than  ready  to  be- 
come Sunday's  successor.  CBS  Radio. 

PEPPER  YOUNG'S  FAMILY     Linda 

Young  faces  the  cruelest  kind  of  dilemma 
as  her  long-missing  first  husband,  Jeff, 
turns  up  in  Elmwood  to  disprove  in  per- 
son the  reports  of  his  death.  What  is  Jeff 
really  after?  Is  Linda  herself  sure  of  her 
inmost  feelings?  And  how  will  Pepper 
manage  to  control  his  very  natural  re- 
sentment and  suspicion  as  he  struggles 
to  give  Jeff  a  fair  hearing?  CBS  Radio. 

THE  RIGHT  TO  HAPPINESS  From  the 
moment  Carolyn  agreed  to  accept  a  dead 
friend's  legacy,  she  treated  it  merely  as 
a  trust,  knowing  instinctively  that  it  was 
bound  to  bring  trouble  and  complications 


into  her  life.  But,  even  as  trustee,  Caro- 
lyn is  a  target  for  money-hungry  con- 
nivers.  How  far  will  Jack  Townsend  in- 
sinuate himself  into  her  confidence  before 
she  is  brought  up  against  the  shattering 
truth  about  him?  CBS  Radio. 

THE  ROAD  OF  LIFE  Dr.  Jim  Brent's 
efforts  to  expose  the  dangerous  quackery 
practiced  at  the  Nixon  Sanitarium  is 
finally  expedited  by  a  tragic  development. 
With  proof  in  hand,  Jim  knows  that 
Nixon's  operations  in  Merrimac  can  be 
completely  discredited.  But  what  if  the 
end  of  Nixon  turns  out  to  mean  some- 
thing unforeseen  in  Jim's  own  life?  Will 
a  subtle  form  of  blackmail  cause  Jim  to 
act  against  his  conscience?  CBS  Radio. 

THE  ROMANCE  OF  HELEN  TRENT 

Helen  is  disturbed  and  perplexed  as  it 
becomes  increasingly  apparent  that  law- 
yer Gil  Whitney's  divorce  has  not  cleared 
the  way  for  her  marriage  to  him — at  least 
not  in  Gil's  mind.  Absorbed  in  his  new 
job,  he  cannot  see  that  in  asking  Helen 
to  be  "nice"  to  his  boss  he  has  introduced  a 
sinister,  even  fatal,  note  into  their  rela- 
tionship. What  will  being  nice  to  Kurt 
mean  for  Helen?  CBS  Radio. 

SEARCH  FOR  TOMORROW  Harold 
Small  was  hired  by  V.  L.'s  gang  because 
of  his  resemblance  to  V.  L. — and  because 
his  talent  for  figures  made  a  good  front 
for  their  activities.  Will  they  discover 
that  Harold  has  a  few  other  talents  that 
may  make  it  more  difficult  than  they  an- 
ticipated to  carry  out  their  scheme?  Will 
Harold  be  able  to  save  the  Tates  from 
the  disaster  that  threatens  more  than  the 
future  of  the  Motor  Haven?  CBS-TV. 

THE  SECOND  MRS.  BURTON  Joe  Hen- 
son's  attack  on  Lew  Archer  failed,  in  its 
initial  purpose — Lew  survived  and  recov- 
ered. But  from  it  has  come  something 
that  may  in  the  end  do  far  more  damage, 
an  article  about  the  Burtons  in  a  scurri- 
lous magazine  called  Dirt.  Stan,  Terry, 
Lew  and  Marcia  are  united  in  their  de- 
termination to  ignore  the  article.  Can 
they  convince  Mother  Burton  that  the 
best  way  to  make  things  worse  is  to  sue? 
CBS  Radio. 

THE  SECRET  STORM  Pauline  Harris's 
mother  faces  a  common  tragedy  as  she 
knows  she  cannot  stop  her  daughter  from 
wrecking  her  own  chance  for  some  kind 
of  happiness.  Everyone  except  Pauline 
realizes  that  Peter  Ames  will  never  take 
her  as  a  successor  to  his  dead  wife.  But 
Pauline  cannot  face  this  fact.  What  new 
plan  will  she  develop  when  she  sees  that 
merely  taking  Jane  Edwards  away  from 
Peter  is  not  enough?  CBS-TV. 

THIS  IS  NORA  DRAKE  As  Nora  and 
David  Brown  delve  deeper  into  the  mys- 
tery surrounding  the  death  of  Jerome 
Joss,  for  which  David's  parents  were  in- 
justly  imprisoned,  they  realize  that  what 
appeared  a  simple  personal  tragedy  is 
becoming  far  more  complex  than  they 
suspected — and  that  there  are  people  in- 
volved of  whom  they  have  not  yet  caught 
a  trace.  What  has  David's  boss  got  to 
do  with  the  thirty-year-old  murder — and 
the   frightening   present?    CBS    Radio. 


local  papers  for  time  and  station. 


VALIANT  LADY  Since  her  husband's 
death  some  time  ago,  Helen  Emerson  has 
striven  not  only  to  give  her  children 
normal,  happy  lives,  but  to  make  sure 
that  her  own  life  did  not  get  pushed  too 
far  into  the  background — for  she  knows 
that  a  withdrawn,  frustrated  mother  is 
not  the  key  to  a  happy  home.  How  will 
Helen  decide  if  she  finds  that  her  chance 
for  happiness  conflicts  with  the  needs  of 
her  family?   CBS-TV. 

WENDY   WARREN    AND    THE    NEWS 

Wendy,  experienced  in  dealing  with  neu- 
rotic, temperamental  writers,  knows  that 
by  allowing  Paul  Benson  to  take  an  in- 
creasingly important  part  in  her  life  she 
is  almost  asking  for  trouble.  And  yet  the 
new  relationship  means  so  much  to  her 
that  she  cannot  help  hoping  her  interest 
and  affection  will  help  straighten  Paul 
out.  What  is  behind  the  frantic  efforts 
of  Paul's  sister  Barbara  to  discourage 
Wendy?   CBS  Radio. 

WHEN  A  GIRL  MARRIES  There's  al- 
most nobody  in  town  who  doesn't  know 
that  Joan  and  Harry  Davis  can  be  called 
on  for  friendship.  To  Joan,  friendship  is 
constructive  and  active,  and  many  of  her 
neighbors  can  testify  to  its  value.  In  a 
recent  story  Joan  offered  that  same  brand 
of  friendship  to  a  stranger  in  town,  with 
surprising  results.     ABC  Radio. 

WHISPERING  STREETS  Like  the  rest 
of  us,  Hope  Winslow  would  be  inclined 
to  think  that  while  everybody  has  prob- 
lems, those  who  have  plenty  of  money 
are  just  a  bit  ahead  of  the  game.  But 
recently  she  became  the  only  friend  of 
a  girl  whose  wealth  had  created  a  hurt 
so  deep  it  was  almost  fatal.  Hope  played 
a  big  part  in  this  girl's  life,  as  she  does 
in  most  of  those  she  tells  about — in  this 
case,   a   very   satisfying  part.   ABC   Radio. 

THE  WOMAN  IN  MY  HOUSE  When 
Jessie  Carter  was  younger,  she  used  to 
think,  when  a  problem  had  been  met  and 
solved,  "Well,  now  that's  over."  But 
nowadays  she  thinks,  "Now  that's  over — 
but  what's  next?"  For,  as  mother  and 
grandmother  of  a  growing  brood,  she  is 
far  too  experienced  now  to  imagine  that 
the  peace  which  follows  a  crisis  is  going 
to  last  any  length  of  time.  NBC  Radio. 

YOUNG  DR.  MALONE  Dr.  Ted  Masons 
invasion  of  Three  Oaks  and  the  Clinic 
has  climaxed  in  a  way  nobody — least  of 
all  Ted  himself — expected.  Dr.  Jerry 
Malone,  practically  ousted  by  Ted's  ma- 
neuvers, finds  that  the  man  who  vir- 
tually turned  his  life  topsy-turvy  now  is 
in  desperate  need  of  his  help.  What  hap- 
pens as  a  result  of  Ted's  collapse— to  the 
Malones,  to  Marcia  Mason,  and  to  others 
whose  lives  Ted  affected?  CBS  Radio. 

YOUNG  WIDDER  BROWN  It  seems  a 
long  time  ago  to  Ellen  that  she  and 
Anthony  Loring  were  making  plans  to 
marry.  The  marriage  into  which  he  was 
trapped,  even  though  it  ended  with  his 
wife  Millicent's  death,  is  still,  in  a  way, 
keeping  them  apart.  And  now  Ellen 
wonders  desperately  if  the  aftermath  of 
that  tragedy  will  end  with  her  own  de- 
parture from  Simpsonville,  for  her  very 
means  of  livelihood  has  now  been  threat- 
ened. NBC  Radio. 


HOLLYWOOD  DISCOVERY! 
A  non-drying  spray-set  with 


" 


■■^■MB^H 


^c^^iaJOmI 


"I'm  in  love  with  Lustre-Net!" 
says  ANITA  EKBERG,  co-starring  in 

"BACK  FROM  ETERNITY" 
An  RKO-Radio  Picture 


New  SUPER-SOFT 


LiMkt-lJet 


the  spray-set  with  lanolin  esters! 


Keeps  hair  in  place  the  Hollywood  way — 
without  stiffness  or  stickiness,  contains 
no  lacquer.  Leaves  hair  soft,  shining! 
Actually  helps  prevent  dryness — helps 
preserve  softness  with  lanolin  esters! 
Quick-sets  pin-curls  in  damp  or 
dry  hair  .  .  .  ends  sleeping 
on  pins! 

Any  pin-curl  style 
sets  faster,  manages 
easier,  lasts  longer! 


THERE  ARE 


LUSTRE-NETS 


recommended  by  Top  Hollywood  Movie  Stars 


SUPER-SOFT— gentle  control  for 

loose,  casual  hair-do's.  Spray 

on  after  combing. 

REGULAR — extra  control  for  hard-to- 

manage  hair,  or  curly  hair-do's. 

SVz  oz. — a  full  ounce  more  .  .  .  Only 
$1.25  plus  tax.  By  the  makers  of 
Lustre-Creme  Shampoo 


23 


FEEL  CAREFREE 


m 


■..,...,..  ....  . ' . ,., :.:...:,.  ■,-.'■: ■:>;■::■:..:., :-  '■%. 


ON  THE 

HOTTEST  DAYS 

(EVEN  AT  "PROBLEM  TIMES") 

Hot  weather's  bad  enough.  But  when 
you  have  to  wear  a  clinging  external  pad, 
a  twisting  belt,  you  feel  three  times  as 
hot!  Bring  your  boiling  point  down  to 
normal  by  changing  to  Tampax.  Internal 
sanitary  protection  is  so  comfortable,  so 
unobtrusive,  that  you  aren't  even  aware 
you're  wearing  it.  You're  free  from  em- 
barrassing odor,  free  from  chafing — and 
you  perspire  far  less.  How  long  can  you 
go  on  deliberately  making  yourself  un- 
comfortable when  Tampax  is  so  sure,  so 
secure,  so  available? 

Perhaps  the  only  thing  that's  holding 
you  back  is  a  nagging  doubt  or  two. 
Then  know  that  literally  mil- 
lions of  women  have  used 
billions  of  Tampax — that  it  was 
invented  by  a  doctor  for  the 
welfare  of  all  women,  married 
or  unmarried,  active  or  not.  It's  con- 
venient to  carry — easy  to  dispose  of. 

Don't  go  through  another  hot  Summer 
feeling  even  hotter.  Get  Tampax  now 
and  enjoy  every  normal  activity — even 
swimming.  Choice  of  3  absorbencies 
(Regular,  Super,  Junior)  at  all  drug  and 
notion  counters.  Tampax  Incorporated, 
Palmer,  Mass. 


NO  BELTS 
NO  PINS 
NO  PADS 
NO  ODOR 


24 


New  Patterns 
for  Yon 


4605 — Easy  to  sew,  a  joy  to  wear — those 
sleek,  slim  lines  are  pure  figure  flattery. 
Misses'  Sizes  10-18.  Size  16  takes  3^4  yards 
39-inch  fabric.    State  size.    350. 


4588 — Your  favorite  shirtwaist  dress,  with 
a  classic  line  that's  sure  to  flatter  every 
figure!       Step-in     styling,     jumbo     pockets. 

Misses'  Sizes  12-20;  3042.  Size  16  takes 
5%    yards    35-inch    fabric.    State    size.     350. 

4512 — Cut  to  fit  the  shorter,  fuller  figure! 
Note  the  cape-like  shoulder  yoke,  sleeves 
scalloped  for  femininity.  Half  Sizes  14%- 
24%.  Size  16%  takes  3%  yards  35-inch 
fabric.    State  size.    35^. 


Invented  by  a  doctor — 
now  used  by  millions  of  women 


ry-rr, 


SIZES 

12-20 

30-42 


Send  thirty-jive  cents  (in  coins)  for  each  pattern  to:  TV  Radio  Mirror,  Pattern  Depart- 
ment, P.O.  Box  137,  Old  Chelsea  Station,  New  York  11,  New  York.  Add  jive  cents  for 
each    pattern    for    first-class    mailing.     Be    sure    to     specify    pattern     number    and    size. 


information  booth 

(Continued   from   page   6) 

Detective  With  Dignity 

Would  you  please  give  me  some  infor- 
mation about  Donald  Gray,  ivho  portrays 
Mark  Saber  on  The  Vise,  on  ABC-TV? 

M.  K.,  Buffalo,  N.  Y. 

The  ranks  of  TV  detectives  have  been 
invaded  by  the  handsome,  dashing,  gray- 
at-the-temples  ex-police  inspector  "Mark 
Saber."  In  his  weekly  bout  with  crimes 
Scotland  Yard  itself  is  unable  to  handle, 
he  is  played  by  Donald  Gray,  a  powerful, 
dynamic  six-footer  who  ended  the  long 
search  for  the  star  of  The  Vise.  ...  If 
courage  and  strength  of  character  mark 
the  realistic  performances  of  Donald 
Gray,  the  reasons  lie  in  the  man  himself. 
Donald  was  born  in  South  Africa,  where 
his  father  was  an  ostrich  farmer.  An  offi- 
cer in  the  King's  Own  Scottish  Borderers 
of  the  British  Army,  Donald  led  a  battalion 
on  the  D-Day  storming  of  Normandy.  A 
severe  wound  made  it  necessary  to  ampu- 
tate his  left  arm.  Donald's  ready  adjust- 
ment to  this  misfortune  was  followed  by 
his  entry  into  the  theater.  .  .  .  His  first  im- 
portant acting  role  came  in  1951,  when  he 
appeared  in  "Island  of  Desire."  British 
televiewers  are  well  acquainted  with  his 
superb  talent.  It  was  in  England  that  Ed- 
ward and  Harry  Danziger,  producers  of 
The  Vise,  tapped  him  for  the  part  of  Mark 
Saber.  .  .  .  The  international  detec- 
tive is  a  unique  "private  eye  " — as  firm 
and  tough  as  any,  but  with  mien  and  man- 
ner that  are  dignified,  understanding,  in- 
tense and  attractive. 

Calling  All  Fans 

The  following  clubs  invite  new  members. 
If  you  are  interested,  write  to  address 
given — not  to  TV  Radio  Mirror. 

Barry  Gordon  Fan  Club,  c/o  Stacey  Jill 
Fisher,  100  W.  42  St.,  Room  702,  New 
York  36,  N.  Y. 

Les  Paul  and  Mary  Ford  Fan  Club,  c/o 
Ernest  Lemire,  235  Union  Ave.,  Providence 
9,  R.  I. 

Frankie  Laine  Fan  Club,  c/o  Ann  Fin- 
german,  21  Sumner  St.,  Milton  86,  Mass. 
(Continued  on  page  26) 


Donald  Gray 


Lady  Esther 
Sheer  Flattery 
Creme  Make-Up 


"-»*. 


ok  kit  fu.  torn  lot 

A  piece  of  paper  can  show  you  quicker  than  anything  else  how  good 

your  make-up  is.  Smears,  streaks,  lines,  pores  show  up  on  paper  at  a 
glance — the  way  they  show  up  on  your  skin  at  close  range.  And  you 
can  see  for  yourself  how  much,  much  smoother  Lady  Esther's 
new  Sheer  Flattery  is  than  other  make-ups  tested. 
Sheer  Flattery  is  a  new  sheerer  than  sheer,  creamier  creme  make-up  that 

smooths  on  so  easily  .  .  .  smooths  over  every  blemish  so  evenly,  you  can 
be  absolutely  confident  that  the  closer  he  looks  the  lovelier  you'll  look. 
No  other  make-up — cream,  liquid,  or  cake — can  give  you  such 

wonderful  close-up  confidence  in  your  complexion  as  Lady  Esther's 
new  Sheer  Flattery!  Just  look  at  the  paper  test!  It  shows  the  difference! 

6  Mw'SKrN-HARMOWshades 


blend  perfectly  with  natural  skin  tones 

Stunning  pink  and  French  Gray  case 


~7Qt  Plus  tax 

price  slightly  higher  in  Canad 


SHEER    FLATTERY 
Creme  Make-Up 


©1956  by  Lady  Esther,  Div. 


.25 


this  vs  ho*  y°u 


foci* 


•  • 


Cashmere 
Bouquet 

TALCUM  POWDER 


26. 


Conover  Girts  P»ck 
Cashmere  Bouquet 

School  ^de^ 

Cashmere  Bouq" 
-0O,h5hhXs  9-.rd.es, 

ease  on  smoothly- 


Says 


Se*& 


u'rv  Conoverl 


information   booth 

(Continued  from  page  25) 
Early  Start 

/  would  like  some  information  about 
Anita  Louise,  who  plays  Nell  McLaughlin 
on  My  Friend  Flicka.  CBS-TV. 

S.  K.,  Monticello,  N.  Y. 


Anita  Louise  has  known  an  admiring 
audience  since  early  childhood.  Passers- 
by  would  stop  her  mother  on  the  street  to 
ask  about  the  unusually  beautiful  blond 
child.  One  of  these  was  a  commercial 
artist,  whereupon  Anita  became  a  model. 
.  .  .  Anita  Louise  Fremault  was  born  in 
New  York  City.  Her  father  was  a  de- 
signer of  home  furnishings  and  interiors. 
Her  mother  was  a  musician.  Anita's  first 
taste  of  national  fame  came  when  she 
posed  as  the  "Post  Toasties"  girl.  .  .  . 
At  the  age  of  five,  Anita  was  summoned 
to  Hollywood.  When  she  was  thirteen,  she 
was  cast  as  an  eighteen-year-old  in  "Just 
Like  Heaven."  Since  then,  Anita  played 
in  countless  motion  pictures,  including 
"Madam  DuBarry,"  "Bachelor  of  Arts," 
"The  Story  of  Louis  Pasteur,"  "Anthony 
Adverse"  and  "Green  Light."  .  .  .  Anita 
was  educated  by  private  tutors  and  then 
attended  a  professional  children's  school. 
She  excelled  in  French  and  became  so 
proficient  on  the  harp  that  she  later  per- 
formed with  the  Los  Angeles  Philhar- 
monic. She  is  still  fluent  in  French  and 
German  and  plays  the  piano  well.  A 
tasteful  collector  of  china  and  silver, 
Anita  also  enjoys  doing  needlepoint.  .  .  . 
In  1940,  Anita  decided  on  a  new  career 
— marriage,  to  Maurice  "Buddy"  Adler, 
and,  later,  children,  of  which  the  Adlers 
boast  two — Melanie,  now  eight,  and  Tony, 
five.  Although  Anita  has  done  occasional 
TV  stints,  and  a  movie  in  1952,  "Retreat. 
Hell!",  it  was  not  until  the  role  in  My 
Friend  Flicka  was  offered  that  she  decided 
to  resume  her  career.  She  explains:  "I 
feel  I  can  do  it  now,  with  the  children 
growing  up.  They're  in  school  most  of  the 
day  and  I  have  plenty  of  time." 

Photos  and  Clubs 

Can  you  please  tell  me  how  to  obtain 
photographs  of  my  favorite  TV  and  radio 
personalities?  I  would  also  appreciate 
knowing  how  to  get  permission  to  start  an 
official  fan  club.  L.   W .,  Elgin,  III. 

It's  simple.  All  you  have  to  do,  in  both 
cases,  is  contact  your  favorite  star  at  the 
network  with  which  he  or  she  is  connected. 
Here  are  the  New  York  City  addresses  of 
the  national  nets:  NBC,  30  Rockefeller 
Plaza;  ABC,  7  West  66  St.;  CBS,  485 
Madison  Ave.;   MBS,  1440  Broadway. 

FOR  YOUR  INFORMATION— If  there's 
something  you  want  to  know  about  radio 
and  television,  write  to  Information  Booth, 
TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East  42nd  St.,  New 
York  17,  N.  Y.  We'll  answer,  if  we  can, 
provided  your  question  is  of  general  inter- 
est. Answers  will  appear  in  this  column — 
but  be  sure  to  attach  this  box  to  your 
letter,  and  specify  whether  your  question 
concerns  radio  or  TV. 


trnw 


Alice  Lon  was  born  to  be 
the  Champagne  Lady,  to 
bubble  over  with  song  on 
Lawrence  Welk's  show 


*~A 


0«J  MUOtl  THE  PHOHOO-WBPH  SOH«- 
<H'^»       BO'S 


"~»V. 


• 


By  BUD  GOODE 


IT  was  Lawrence  Welk's  idea,  back 
in  1953,  to  let  his  local  TV  audience 
select  a  "Champagne  Lady"  from 
among  a  number  of  aspiring  candi- 
dates. And,  when  pert,  brown-eyed 
Alice  Lon  auditioned  for  the  title, 
thousands  of  letters  poured  in.  Some 
letters  had  as  many  as  fifty  signatures. 
One  school  principal  phoned  in  say- 
ing, "My  eight  hundred  children  vote 
for  Alice  Lon.  If  you  want  us  to,  we 
will  have  them  sign  their  names  .  .  ." 
Lawrence's  secretary,  Lois  Lamont, 
assured  her  they  would  take  her  word. 
But — whether  signed  by  one  or  fifty — 
the  collective  reaction  quite  obviously 
was:  "We  want  Alice  Lon!" 
•  Why  the  public  was  so  enthusiastic 
over  lovely  Alice  was  summarized  by 
one  viewer,  who  said,  "Alice  is  so 
happy  when  she  sings,  she  makes  our 
TV  screen  sparkle.  Mr.  Welk,  if  you 
are  looking  for  effervescence  and  en- 
thusiasm, then  you've  got  it  in  Alice 
Lon — for,  with  her  bubbling  personal- 
ity, she  truly  is  a  Champagne  Lady." 
There  is  an  adage  that  says  "He  who 
is  happy  at  his  work,  works  best." 
Alice  gets  so  much  enjoyment  from 
her  singing  on  ABC -TV's  The  Law- 
rence Welk  Show  that,  at  times,  she 
feels  she  should  be  paying  them.  Her 
mother,  Mrs.  Mary  Lois  Wyche,  recalls: 


See  Next  Page- 


-   -JL> 


Three  reasons  why  Alice  Lon  interrupted  her  music  career:  All  in  a  row, 
her  sons  Bobby,  Clint  and  Larry — setting  off  for  Sunday  School.  Below, 
the  famous  collection  of  petticoats,  which  her  own  mother  makes  for  her. 


(Continued) 

"Alice's  first  word  was  'sing.'  By  the 
time  she  was  two  years  old,  she  could 
carry  a  tune,  had  memorized  lyrics,  and 
sang  them  as  clearly  as  she  does  today. 
Alice  just  never  spoke  'baby-talk.'  " 

Later,  throughout  her  school  life,  Alice 
studied  music,  harmony,  transposition, 
and  sight  reading,  but  today  she  fre- 
quently still  learns  new  songs  by  ear. 
While  preparing  lunch  for  her  children 
— Bobby,  8,  Clint,  6,  and  Larry,  5 — she 
has  the  automatic  record-player  re- 
peating a  song.  (Recently,  Alice  mixed 
peanut-butter  and  jam  sandwiches  to 
the  tune  of  "Ivory  Tower.") 

Alice  was  born  in  Kilgore,  Texas, 
where  her  father  was  a  plant  engineer 
for  Humble  Oil.  She  and  her  younger 
sister,  Betty  Jo,  frequently  sang  duets 
together.  Their  mother  says  that  Betty 
Jo's  voice  was  as  good  as  Alice's,  but 
Betty  Jo  lacked  the  interest  in  singing 
that  Alice  had.  "In  fact,"  says  Mrs. 
Wyche,  "Alice  and  Betty  Jo  were  as  dif- 
ferent as  oil  and  water.  Betty  would 
rather  spend  time  with  her  paper  dolls 
and  doll  house.  She  played  with  them 
until  she  was  twelve.  But,  in  all  her 
childhood,  Alice  never  had  a  doll  nor 
did  she  'play  house.' 

"From  the  time  she  could  first  talk," 
Mrs.  Wyche  recalls,  "Alice  was  bright 
and  witty.  She  kept  everybody  laughing. 
And  -she  was  an  active  youngster.  She 
was  forever  climbing  things.  She  con- 
quered every  tree  in  the  area.  Once — 
when  she  was  four  and  Betty  two — 
Alice  climbed  to  the  top  of  the  water 
tower  with  Betty  on  her  back.  It  nearly 
scared  me  to  death.  She  was  dauntless. 
Once  she  set  her  sights  on  a  goal,  it  was 
as  good  as  reached." 

Alice  first  sang  on  radio  station  KFRO 
in  Longview,  Texas,  when  she  was  four 
years  old.  Her  mother  played  the  piano 
accompaniment  while  Alice  and  Betty 
Jo  sang  "Dancing  With  My  Shadow." 
Even  at  four,  Alice  began  receiving  fan 
mail.  "Listeners,"  says  Mrs.  Wyche, 
"thought  she  was  at  least  eight.  She 
never  sounded  like  a  little  child.  But  I 
can  vouch  for  her  age — one  of  the  sta- 
tion girls  held   (Continued  on  page  84) 


Alice  Lon  is  the  Champagne  Lady  on  The  Law- 
rence Welk  Show,  ABC-TV,  Saturday,  9  to  10 
P.M.  EDT,  for  the  Dodge  Dealers  of  America. 


& 


t 


Soda-pop  trio:  Larry,  at  5,  warbles  like  Alice — who  sang 
on  radio  at  4.  Clint,  at  6,  is  "all  boy"  but  ready  to  join 
in  on  any  venture.  Bobby,  at  8,  knows  some  real  drum  rolls! 


Alice's  mother,  Mrs.  Mary  Lois  Wyche — busy  helping  with 
the  fan  mail  her  daughter  gets  on  The  Lawrence  Welk  Show 
— says  the  first  word  little  Alice  ever  learned  was  "sing." 


Bobby's  "the  quiet  one,"  except  when  he  gets  at  those 
drums  (he  beats  'em  to  accompany  almost  everything  on  TV). 
Music  lover  and  snappy  dresser,  he's  ever  neat  and  polite. 


Larry  and  Clint  are  lively  ones.  Alice's  youngest  loves 
a  good  scrap — among  friends.  And  Clint  is  so  active  he's 
always  coming  home  with  shirttail  out — and  holes  in  jeans. 


29 


Liuing  in  His  Sunshine 


Virginia  Graham  learned — in  the 
shadow  of  cancer — how  the 
voice  of  God  speaks  through  man 

By  ELIZABETH  BALL 


So  many  letters  from  Weekday  listeners,  from  viewers  of  her 
TV  program  and  those  who  saw  her  on  This  Is  Your  Lifel 
Most  of  them  ask  about  her  experience  with  cancer,  seeking 
the  affirmative  answer  Virginia  knows  so  well  how  to  give. 


Not  much  time  at  home  for  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Harry  Suttenberg 
— they're  often  away,  touring  the  country  for  Virginia's 
appearances  at  countless  benefits  and  20-hour  telethons. 


No  onk  in  the  world  was  unhappier  than  I,"  says 
Virginia  Graham,  "when  I  knew  I  had  cancer. 
And,  today,  no  one  in  the  world  is  happier  than 
I  that  I  did  have  it."  ...  A  strange  statement  for 
a  fetching-looking,  blond,  brown-eyed,  and  successful 
woman  to  make.  A  valiant  statement,  too  .  .  .  but 
one  likely  to  provoke  incredulity — an  Oh,  come  now, 
you  don't  really  mean  it!  reaction. 

But  Virginia  does  really  mean  it. 

That  she  does  is  all  the  more  amazing,  since 
such  lovers  of  life  as  Virginia — exuberant  with  the 
sheer  joy  of  living-^-do  not  usually  escape  the 
Dark  Shadow  still  healthy  of  mind  and  body,  happy 
of  heart  and  unbroken  of  spirit  ...  as  Virginia  did, 
in  the  space  of  one  day,  the  day  of  June  21,  1951. 

On  this  day  of  June  21,  Virginia  awoke  to  the 
morning  sun  gilding  the  windows  of  her  hospital 
room  .   .  .  and  to  the  returning  memory  of  why 
she  was  here,  in  the  hospital.    She  had,  the  day 
before,  lost  her  expected  baby.  There  was  sadness  in 
the  loss,  but  she  realized  it  had  not  been  wholly 
'unexpected.  Lynn,  her  only  child,  was  now  fifteen — 
and    fifteen'  years    between   babies    is    a    long   time. 

Continued     k 

"Family"  time  is  doubly  blessed  for  Virginia,  with  the 
husband  whose  help  and  faith  have  meant  so  much  to 
her,  and  their  beloved  daughter  Lynn  (now  in  college). 

mm 


V 


r  _ .  * 


) 


^M 

P% 

H 

w  ■  i 

HH 

1 

■  -.'.-'••J 

^  if 


V| 


Living  in  His  Sunshine 


Great  moment  for  a  gallant  lady:  Ralph  Edwards,  Virginia 
and  her  husband,  as  she  heard  the  magic  words  which  were 
to  open  new  doors,  "Virginia  Graham — This  Is  Your  Life." 


Harry  takes  enthusiastic  interest  in  his  wife's  work — 
as  she  did  in  his,  at  a  most  critical  time  for  them  both. 
"We  lead  a  very  full  life,"  says  Virginia,  giving  thanks. 


(Continued) 


Part  of  Virginia's  philosophy  is  to  face  the  question: 
What  can  you  do  about  it?  .  .  .  and,  if  the  answer  is 
Nothing,  to  accept  the  inevitable  without  whining  or 
complaining.  She  used  her  philosophy  then  .  .  .  and 
she  had  Lynn  to  go  home  to — and  Harry — and  the 
house  in  Great  Neck,  Long  Island,  which  had  been 
home  since  Lynn  was  a  child  of  two — and  her  career, 
increasingly  rewarding  as  it  was.  She  felt  physically 
fit,  too,  so  well  that  the  miscarriage  and  the  minor 
surgery  which  followed  might  have  been  an  uneasy 
dream  .  .  .  except  for  the  hospital  room. 

Then  the  door  of  her  room  opened.  The  doctor  came 
in.  Virginia  smiled  up  at  him.  There  was  an  exchange 
of  "Good  morning"  pleasantries.  Then  .  .  .  "I'll  be  going 
home,"  Virginia  said — less  as  a  question  than  as  a 
simple  declarative  sentence — "tomorrow." 

The  doctor  cleared  his  throat.  "No,"  he  said,  "you 
won't.   Little,  uh,  more  work  to  be  done  .  .  ." 

"But  I  thought  .  .  ." 

"We'll  talk  about  it,"  the  doctor  said,  "tomorrow." 

"And  then,  unthinkingly,"  as  Virginia  recalls  it  now, 
"I  blurted  out:   'Don't  tell  me  I  have  cancer!' 

"Unthinkingly,  at  the  moment,"  she  repeats,  "but, 
actually,  I'd  been  suspecting  for  about  seven  years 
that  I  had  cancer,  even  though  the  doctors  to  whom 
I  went — and  I  went  to  several — assured  me  'No.'  Since 
I  had  none  of  the  symptoms  commonly  associated  with 
cancer — no  loss  of  weight,  no  loss  of  appetite,  skin 
clear  as  it  ever  was,  eyes  bright — I  suppose  it  was  un- 
derstandable that  the  doctors  not  only  pooh-poohed  my 
suspicions  but  made  me  feel  rather  more  than  a  bit  of 
a  hypochondriac. 

"My  mistake — let  me  s'ay  it  here — was  in  going  to 
individual  doctors  instead  of  to  a  Cancer  Detection 
Clinic.  A  graver  mistake  was  in  not  believing,  as  I 
should  have  done — as  every  (Continued  on  page  69) 

Virginia  Graham  is  the  hostess  of  Weekday,  NBC  Radio's 
daytime  service,  M-F,  from  10  A.M.  to  12  noon  and  2  to 
3:45  P.M.  EDT.  Virginia  Graham's  Food  For  Thought  is 
seen    on   Du   Mont    Station    WABD    (N.Y.),    M-F,    at    5    P.M. 


I! 


32 


■<  ^Z- 


♦     4 


" 


--L-'  *-' 


ii  f  4j 


Plants  and  flowers  bring  the  country  into  the  city  home  of 
two  ex-suburbanites  who  no  longer  have  time  to  commute. 


Even  the  kitchen  has  an  odtdoor  look,  with  simulated 
brick  walls  and  "roses"  a-bloom  on  ceiling  and  floor. 


Virginia  and   Harry  are  fully  at  peace  with  the  world,  in  a  home  which  is  "everything   I  ever  dreamed.' 


* 


the  Mrs.  Eddie  Fisher  I  Know 


. 


What  a  kick  I  get  out  of  seeing  that  lovelight  in  their  eyes, 
every  time  Eddie  and  Debbie  Reynolds  Fisher  look  at  each  other! 


People  who  know  that  Debbie  and  Eddie  Fisher  are 
our  closest  friends  frequently  ask  my  husband  Knobby 
Lee  and  me  about  their  marriage:   "Peggy,"  they 
ask,  "are  those  two  really  so  much  in  love  as  they  seem 
to  be?"  Well,  I  can  safely  say  that  double  wedding  rings 
were  invented  for  Eddie  and  Frannie  (Debbie  is  "Frannie" 
to  her  family — and,  for  the  past  five  years,  Knobby  and  I 
have  considered -ourselves  part  of  the  family).    If  there  are 
different  kinds  of  love — like  there  are  different  kinds  of 
measles — then  I  think  Frannie  and  Eddie  have  caught 
them  oil. 

I  know  they've  got  that  "Sunday-at-home-alone-with-you" 
variety:  When  they  were  in  New  York  last  March,  I  dropped 
in  on  them  for  Sunday  dinner  (Mexican  food  that  Frannie 
whipped  up).    Those  two!    After  six  months,  it's  still 
hands-across-the-table    and    candlelight   looks.    Honestly, 
they  say  you  see  love  smouldering  in  some  people's  eyes — 
well,  you  can.    And,  believe  me,  it  wasn't  the  paprika 
in  the  tortillas! 

I  met  Debbie  (to  use  the  name  which  all  America  knows 
and  loves)  when  we  were  at  M-G-M  together  in  February 
of  1952.     I  had  come  to  California  hurriedly  from  New 
York,  after  being  offered  a  contract.    The  most  important 
thing  in  the  world  to  me  then  was  to  meet  Jane  Powell 
and  Debbie  Reynolds — they  were  everything  I  wanted  to  be. 
Debbie  was  nearly  twenty  then,  I  was  twenty-one,  and 
she  had  just  finished  "Two  Weeks  of  Love."     In  my  eyes, 
she  was  a  full-fledged  star. 

I  first  ran  into  Debbie  in  Metro's  (Continued  on  page  80) 


As  Debbie's  friend,  I've  heard 
their  love  song  grow  into  a  wedding 
march — and  on  to  lullaby  time 

i 

By  PEGGY  KING 


Watching  for  the  stork?  Those  two  are  just  wild  about 
children — and  now  they're  expecting  one  all  their  own. 


During  the  regular  season,  Coke  Time  Starring  Eddie  Fisher  is 
seen  over  NBC-TV,  heard  over  Mutual  and  other  radio  stations, 
"Pretty,  perky"  Peggy  King  sings  on  The  George  Gobel  Show,  as 
seen  over  NBC-TV,  three  Saturdays  out  of  four,  at  10  P.M.  EDT. 


34 


Miss  Reynolds,  she  was  then.  But  I  just  knew,  that  very  first  Sunday,  Debbie  was  giving  an  "I  want 
you  to  meet  all  my  friends"  kind  of  party.  On  the  edge  of  the  pool — Mr.  and  Mrs.  Knobby  Lee  (that's 
me!),  Debbie  and  Eddie.  In  the  pool,  Sari  Price  and  Joey  Forman.  In  hammock,  Pat  and  Jim  Mahoney. 


i*. 


Debbie's  always  had  a  strong  personal  There  won't  be  so  much  hopping  around,  They  used  to  go  to  that  big  dictionary 
philosophy,  a  positive  attitude  that's  in  days  to  come,  if  I  know  Eddie  and  the  for  their  word  games.  Now  they  look  up 
really  paying  off  in  happiness  today.      way  he  feels  about  caring  for  Debbie!     proper  names — proper  for  boy  or  girl. 


L 


35 


V 


■z**\ 


Arthur  Murray  rates  high  as  both  husband  and  boss,  says  Kathryn — now  a  vice-president  of  their  big  enterprise. 


The  dancing  Murrays  have  collected  porcelain 
figures  for  years — dancing  figures,   of  course. 


She  gets  up  very  early  in  the  morning,  just  so 
she  can  cook,  and  bakes  many  a  cake  for  Arthur. 


Grandmas 


the  most  fun 


Too  acrobatic  for  a  grandmother? 
Her  daughters  sometimes  think  so! 


Books  to   balance?    No — copies   of 
"How  to  Become  a  Good  Dancer"! 


Good  housewife?    Yes — Kathryn's 
learned,    since    she   was   a    bride! 


Kalhryn  Murray,  for  one,  is  glad 
that  "woman's  work  is  never  done" 

By  GREGORY  MERWIN 


There  is  2-in-l  shoe  polish — 3-in-l  oil — 4-in-l 
cold  tablets.    And  there  is  Kathryn  Murray,  a 
5-in-l  grandma.   Anyway,  at  last  count,  she 
was  five  women  and  threatening  to  be  six  or  seven. 
One  is  an  executive  vice-president  of  Arthur 
Murray  Dance  Studios;  this  woman  works  at  her 
desk  from  nine-thirty  to  six  or  eight  P.M.  The 
second  woman  is  the  fabulous  femcee  of  The  Arthur 
Murray  Party  every  Thursday  night  on  CBS-TV. 
Third,  she  doubles  as  an  entertainer,  doing  an 
acrobatic  dance  or  performing  some  of  the  funniest 
pantomime  on  TV.  Fourth,  there  is  the  housewife 
who  is  up  at  six,  every  day  of  her  life,  to  bake 
or  attend  to  other  domestic  chores.    And  the  fifth 
woman  has  five  grandchildren. 

"When  I  say  life  begins  when  you're  a  grand- 
mother, I  mean  exactly  that—hut  probably  not 
exactly  what  you're  thinking,"  she  says.    "A  friend 
of  mine  put  it  this  way  when  one  of  my  daughters 
married:  She  said,  'Don't  think  of  it  as  losing 
a  daughter.   Think  of  it  as  gaining  a  bathroom.' 
Well,  that's  funny  but  it's  realistic,  too.    You  can 
think  of  it  as  gaining  freedom  from  one  kind  of 
responsibility  plus  the  {Continued  on  page  9 1 ) 

Kathryn  emcees  The  Arthur  Murray  Party,  CBS-TV,  Thurs., 
10  P.M.  EDT,  sponsored  by  Prom  Home  Permanent,  White 
Rain  Shampoo,  and  Hazel  Bishop  "Once-A-Day"  Cosmetics. 


Today,  the  Arthur  Murrays'  family  includes  daughters 
Jane  (in  dotted  dress)  and  Phyllis  .  .  .  their  husbands 
Dr.  Henry  J.  Heimlich  (left)  and  Edward  McDowell  .  .  .  and 
those  adorable  grandchildren:  Philip  Murray  Heimlich — 
Martha,  Meg  and  Kathryn  McDowell — and  Peter  Heimlich. 


IIUlAOKSnE   me;  — 


But  mothering  Dwight  Weist  as  I  do, 
in  The  Second  Mrs.  Burton,  why 
shouldn't  I  pick  out  a  bride  for  him? 
By  ETHEL  OWEN 


Look  what  my  introduction  did — now  Dwight  and 
Avery  are  practically  our  next-door  neighbors 


My  husband  must  have  suspected  right 
away  that  I  was  up  to  something. 
Perhaps  I  did  sound  altogether  too  in- 
nocent when  I  remarked,  "I  do  think  Avery 
Hathaway  is  such  a  lovely  girl."  With 
that  he  agreed.  He  even  lowered  one  corner 
of  his  evening  paper  long  enough  to  volunteer, 
"Right  handsome  woman.  Good  neighbor. 
That  little  daughter  of  hers  is  cute,  too." 

Having  thus  delivered  his  opinion,  he  again 
retired  into  his  newspaper  cocoon.  By  all 
the  laws  of  happy  marriage,  I  was  supposed 
to  maintain  the  comfortable  after-dinner 
silence  until  he  had  read  all  the  news, 
studied  the  stock  market  and  even  compared 


Hear  Ethel  Owen  and  Dwight  Weist  in  The  Second  Mrs.  Burtc 


When  Avery  showed  me  her  ring,  my  husband  (John  Almy,  leaning 
over  us)  had  to  admit  I  was  right — in  a  way.  He'd  been  warning  me 
not  to  "meddle"  in  Dwight's  private  life,  off  the  air,  the  way  I  do  on 
the  air,  when  I'm  "Mother"   Burton  and   Dwight's  my  son  Stanley. 


38 





Here's  someone  who  took  to  Dwight  almost  as 
quickly  as  Avery  did — her  daughter  Madeleine. 


the  prices  quoted  in  real  estate  ads.  But  I 
was  trying  to  develop  what  might  be  called 
an  association  of  ideas,  so  I  persisted.  "I  saw 
Dwight  Weist  at  the  studio  today.  He  asked 
about  you."  Jack's  paper  descended  a 
cautious  couple  of  inches.  "Nice  boy,  Dwight." 

I  took  the  plunge.  "Dear,  don't  you  think 
we  should  introduce  Dwight  and  Avery?" 
I  thought  I  was  being  subtle.  I  never  dreamed 
I  would  touch  off  an  explosion.  Jack  smacked 
his  paper  down  on  the  table  and  positively 
roared,  "I  do  not!"  Taken  aback,  I  gasped, 
"But,  darling,  we  like  them  both  so  much 
and  they  are  both  so  lonely  .  .  ." 

He  glowered  at  me.  (Continued  on  page  15) 

CBS  Radio,  M-F,  2:15  P.M.  EDT,  under  multiple  sponsorship. 


Both  had  been  married  before,  and  it  was  a  long  time  before  their 
paths  crossed.    Oh,  it's  quite  a  story— and   I  just  love  to  tell  it! 


Dwight's  always  been  adventurous.    He  went  deep-sea  diving,  off 
Bermuda,  explored  a  freighter  recently  sunk  in  sixty  feet  of  water. 


When  Dwight  pilots  his  children,  Gretchen  and 
Richard,  on  a  plane  trip,  they  pack  bikes,  too. 


Gretchen  and  Richard  took  to  the  sea  depths,  too.   They  share  in 
all   their   father's   hobbies — whether   diving,    flying,    or   bicycling. 


39 


tor  Marion  James,  The  Big  Payoff 
isn't  in  material  things — it's  love 
and  homemaking  and  being  together 


MODI  GIRL 

By  MARTIN  COHEN 

Marion  James,  model-actress  on  CBS- 
TV's  The  Big  Payoff,  is  a  Kentucky 
Colonel,  but  she  doesn't  resemble  one. 
She  doesn't  have  a  mustache  or  a  mint  julep 
or  cigar.  What  she  does  have  is  auburn  hair, 
two  brown  and  gold-flecked  eyes,  and  a 
peachy  complexion  that  tends  to  freckle  in 
summer.  Besides  being  an  honorary  Ken- 
tucky Colonel,  she  has  been  a  Campus 
Queen,  Queen  of  Photography,  Miss  UN 
Plaza,  Miss  TV  of  New  Jersey,  and  Miss  Fo 
Dix,  among  other  titles. 

"Around  the  house,"  says  husband  Ray 
Jaeggi,  "I  call  her  Miss  Front  Doorknob  or 
Miss  Fussbudget."  Marion  herself  thinks  it's 
all  a  "Miss  Understanding,"  for  she  didn't 
want  to  be  a  model  in  the  first  place.  Matter 
of  fact,  she  hardly  resembles  a  New  York 
model.  Instead  of  a  shape  like  a  matchstick, 
Marion  has  a  figure  like  a  girl.  And  she  has 
a  face  that  is  pretty  and  cheerful,  rather  than 
haunted  and  hollow. 

As  Marion  tells  it:  "I  got  to  be  a  model  the 
way  a  kid  is  thrown  in  a  pond  for  the  first 
time  and  told  to  swim  or  sink.  I  hated  to 
parade.  I  fairly  shriveled  up  when  I  was  told 
to  get  into  a  bathing  suit."  The  crisis  of  the 
bathing  suit  came  up  after  she  had  collected 
a  half-dozen  or  more  honors  and  titles.  But 
none  of  them  had  required  that  she  shed 
most  of  her  clothes.  And  she  hadn't  entered 
any    one    of   the    (Continued    on    page  36) 


,rt 


Brother  Victor  (below)  started  it  all,  when  he 
submitted  Marion's  pictures  in  a  contest — 
and  now  Marion  is  busy  modeling  the  lovely 
clothes  which  TV  contestants  can  win  on  The 
Big  Payoff,  emceed  by  Randy  Merriman  (left). 


40 


Husband  Ray  Jaeggi  also  encourages  Marion's  career.  Thanks  to  TV— 
at  home,  that  is — he  can  watch  his  beloved  sports  events,  while  she 
catches  up  on  her  knittin'.  Ray's  a  star  athlete,  but  about  the  only 
"sport"  Marion  enjoys  is  riding  around  on  their  Vespa  motor  scooter. 


Marion  James  is  on  The  Big  Payoff,  with  Randy  Merriman  as  host  and  Bess 
Myerson    as    hostess,    CBS-TV,    M-F,    3    P.M.    EDT,    Colgate-Palmolive    Co. 


Clothes  are  Marion's  business,  but  it's  Ray 
who  insists  on  dressing  up  when  they  step  out. 
At  home,  Marion's  baby  grand  is  her  pride  and 
joy:  "I've  had  my  heart  set  on  one  for  years." 


KfOH 

Don't  tell  her  sponsors,  but  what  Marion  does 
to  a  washing  machine  is  sheer  murder!  Seems 
she  simply  has  to  do  her  rugs  in  it,  and  Ray's  the 
only  one  who  can  keep  it  from  blowing  its  top. 


By  GLADYS  HALL 

Today — perhaps  this  very  day — Dave  Garroway 
and  Pamela  Wilde  may  be  exchanging  their  marriage 
vows  ...  or  perhaps  they  already  have  ...  or  it 
may  not  be  until  autumn  leaves  begin  to  fall.  But 
— whether  yesterday,  today  or  tomorrow — that  the 
wedding  day  will  dawn  for  Dave  and  Pamela  is  as  cer- 
tain as  anything  concerning  mortal  man  and  maid  can  be 

This  has  been  the  Year  of  Marriages,  of  the  kind 
that  make  headlines  .  .  .  the  marriage  of  Eddie 
and  Debbie  (now  going  into  its  second  year),  of  Julius 
La  Rosa  and  Rory  Meyer,  Mike  Wallace  and  Lorraine 
Dora,  Marisa  Pavan  and  Jean  Pierre  Aumont,  Rock 
Hudson   and  his  Phyllis,   Gregory  Peck  and  his 
French  mam'selle  ...  of ,  inevitably,  a  Gabor  or  so— 
not  forgetting  the  marriage  in  Monaco  that  has  given 
a  new  fairy  tale  to  posterity. 
Of  them  all,  however,  the  (Continued  on  page  78) 

Garroway  stars  on  Today,  as  seen  on  NBC-TV,  M-F,  7  to  9  A.M.  EDT. 
He  is  a  communicator  on  Monitor,  as  heard  weekends  over  NBC  Radio. 


Time's  a  harsh  taskmaster,  even  in  Dave's  home  .  .  .  bulletin 
boards,  an  intricate  system  of  alarms.  No  time  for  dates,  no 
time  for  marriage  .  .  .  until  Dave  met  Pamela  Wilde  (right). 


JL  o  Dave  Garroway, 
"the  only  girl"  was 
just  a  dream  .  .  .  then 
along  came  Pamela 


What  a  view — and  no  one  to  share  it  with  ...  no  one 
to  pick  out  his  ties!  But  now  two  are  talking  of  a  home 
in  the  country  .  .  .  and  Dave's  learning  about  "fashion." 


Dave  not  only  collects  cars — he  races  'em  .  .  .  and  so  does 
Pamela.  They  were  once  just  a  few  feet  apart,  in  France  .  .  . 
but  didn't  meet  until  one  enchanted  evening,  back  in  America. 


-rf* 


M 


■v^jS??^" 


■ 


I 


■ 


■ 


■ 


**s 


># 


v^M 

E^y^^^\. 

^V            H 

Five  lively  reasons  why 

^k      flfe  >^ 

^Hl        -  ^H 

it's  a  good  thing   • 

Bob  Crosby  has  a  sense 

^K 

9j  ~    ~m  ■ 

^B  V   *    ■*  ^9 

of  humor — and 

^fljj 

is  a  family  man,  too ! 

AE^^r 

By 
FREDDA  BALLING 


'-'j 


Close  harmony,  as  the  five  Modernaires  join  the  show's 
other  sweet  singers:  Rear  row — Hal,  John,  Allan;  front — 
Fran,  Bob  Crosby,  Paula,  Joan  O'Brien  and  Carol  Richards. 


That  shining  phrase,  "one  big,  happy  family,"  has 
been  so  carelessly  used  that  it  resembles  the  old- 
time  tin  cup  in  Grandma's  kitchen — battered,  and 
often  guilty  of  harboring  secrets  invisible  to  the  casual 
eye.  But  no  such  uncomfortable  condition  exists  amid 
your  (and  almost  everyone's)  favorite  vocal  group, 
The  Modernaires,  who  are  heard  daily — Monday 
through  Friday— on  The  Bob  Crosby  Show.  "The  Mods" 
really  are  one  big,  happy  family,  although  their  per- 
sonalities are  just  as  diverse  as  the  clothes  sizes  and 
food  tastes  to  be  found  among  the  members  of  any 
average  American  clan.  ...  As  a  group,  they  are  as 
full  of  steam  as  a  calliope,  as  versatile  as  a  Spike  Jones 
convention,  and  as  honest  in  their  musicianship  as  the 


Continued 


* 


Hal's  obviously  the  severest  critic  of  his  own  home-grown 
quartet — in  trio  formation,  left  to  right,  Martha,  Paula 
Kelly  Junior  (known  as  "P.K.")  and  Paula  Senior;  accom- 
panying artist,  Miss  Juliann  Dickinson.  But  there  are 
absolutely  no  complaints  about  mama   Paula's  cooking 


44 


The  Merry  Modernaires 


Gay  friends  off  The  Bob  Crosby  Show,  as  well  as  on:  Fran  Scott,  John  Drake,  Allan 
Copeland,  Hal  Dickinson  and  Paula  Kelly  (Mrs.  Dickinson).  "The  Mods"  happily  share 
their  music  and  laughs,  their  hobbies,  homes  and  families — ten  children,  that  is! 


45 


■  m 


-    . 


- 


o-**- 


WW 

^      ,7               4 

£ 

^^^ 

J3F      •' 

• 

Fran  Scott  likes  photography,  gardening,  antique-collecting  and  dog-raising  (had  to 
give  that  up  because  of  wife  Elsie's  allergy).  He  shares  son  John's  interest  in  model 
cars,  gives  daughter  Debbie  a  goodbye  kiss  before  departing  to  sing  for  their  supper. 


46 


The  Merry  Modernaires 

(Continued) 

New  York  Philharmonic.  As  individuals, 
each  has  been  a  star  in  his  own  line,  and 
each  could  win  success  tomorrow  as  a  single. 

In  identifying  The  Mods,  it  should  be 
pointed  out  that  one  of  the  problems  shared 
by  all  is  an  inability  exhibited  by  the  rest 
of  the  world  to  spell  the  component  Mods' 
names  properly.  Paula  Kelly  does  not  use 
a  second  "e"  in  her  surname.  Hal  Dickinson 
is  no  relative  of  Charles  Dickens,  and  wants 
to  keep  his  two  "i's"  without  argument. 
Allan  Copeland  is  not  Alan  or  Allen.  Fran 
Scott  is  not  Frank,  although  he  is  earnest, 
and  John  Drake  is  not  to  be  confused  with 
actors  Charles  Drake  and  Tom  Drake,  nor 
buccaneer  Sir  Francis.  .  .  .  Even  the  chap 
usually  called  "The  Sixth  Modernaire"  (the 
quintet's  business  manager  and  one-sixth 
owner  of  The  Modernaire  corporation)  is 
named  Thomas  Patrick  Sheils.  No  "d"  in 
that-last-name,  please,-,  and- the-  "e"  before- 
the  "i."  Those  facts  established,  there  will 
be  no  more  confusion  .  .  .  until  the  next 
batch  of  fan  mail  arrives. 

In  certain  other   (Continued  on  page  93) 


^  ■  * 


.  —  ■  i 


; 


■ 


John  Drake  is  librarian  for  the  quintet,  as  well  as  bass.  A  right  versatile  chap,  he 
speaks  many  dialects,  plays  several  instruments,  and  writes  lyrics,,  too.  But  his  great 
pride  is  his  family — wife  Marion  and  their  two  daughters,  little  Carole  and  Elizabeth. 


Allan  Copeland  is  the  "junior"  member  of  The  Modernaires,  but  he  and  his  wife  Dolores 
can  boast  of  three  children.  Baby  Richard  was  born  just  a  little  over  a  year  ago,  has  a 
brother  and  sister — Michael  and  Christine — already  old  enough  to  go  to  parties. 


The  Modernaires  sing  on  The  Bob  Crosby  Show,  CBS-TV,  Monday  through  Friday,  3:30  P.M.  EDT,  under  multiple  sponsorship. 


47 


m 


"Queen  for  a  day"?  Baby  Mary  Ann  knows  she'll 
always  be  the  princess  of  Jeanne  Cagney's  heart 


From  the  very  first,  Jaclc  and  Jeanne  Cagney  Morrison  knew  their 
tiny  daughter  was  beautiful.  Now  that  Mary  Ann's  proved  to  be  so 
accomplished,  too,  Jeanne  says:  "I  keep  telling  myself  there  must 
be  lots  of  babies  just  as  smart — but  I  don't  really  believe  it!" 


By  PAULINE  TOWNSEND 

In  her  three  years  as  fashion  consultant  on  Queen  For  A  Day 
(now  seen  on  NBC-TV,  as  well  as  heard  over  Mutual), 
Jeanne  Cagney  has  dressed  almost  a  thousand  "queens." 
It  was  not  only  work,  but  also  fun,  for  Jeanne  has  developed  a 
warm   affection  for  the   wonderfully   varied   procession  of 
women  who  cross  Jack  Bailey's  stage  to  don  their  crowns  day 
after  interesting  day.    She  could  be  forgiven,  though,  for  the 
unusual  zest  and  excitement  with  which,  not  long  ago,  she 
prepared  yet  another  "queen"  for  her  camera  debut.    It  was  her 
own  daughter  Jeanne  was  grooming  for  her  first 
public  appearance — Miss  Mary  Ann  Morrison,  just  turned  five 
months  old,  pink  and  pert  and  pretty,  and  obviously  reveling 
in  her  role  as  Queen  of  Every  Day  in  the  Morrisons'  charming 
yellow  farmhouse  high  in  the  hills  back  of  Hollywood. 

Mary  Ann  appeared  in  her  mother's  arms,  rustling  in  pink 
organdy,  her  soft  amber  hair  swirled  (Continued  on  page  89) 


Tip-to-toe  glamour  for  a  royal  camera  debut: 
Coiffure  created  by  Mary  Ann's  fashion-expert 
mama — handmade  bootees  chosen  from  dozens  of 
pairs  sent  in  by  loyal  fans  of  Queen  For  A  Day. 


Queen  For  A  Day,  emceed  by  Jack  Bailey— seen,  on  NBC-TV,  4:30  P.M.  EDT— heard  on  Mutual,  11:30  A.M.— M-F,  under  multiple  sponsorship. 


49 


^9M 


-**■■ 


•    % 


4    i 


i  * 


HAT  EVERY  WOMAN  WANTS 


Meg  Harper  may  misjudge  Hal  Craig  (Steve  Gethers)  in 
Love  Of  Life — but  viewers  understand  Jean  in  her  role. 


This  September,  Jean  McBride  will  celebrate  her 
fifth  anniversary  as  Meg  Harper,  on  CBS-TV's 
daytime  drama,  Love  Of  Life.  In  these  five  years, 
both  Jean  and  Meg  have  changed,  little  by  little, 
and  it  is  sometimes  difficult  to  tell  whether  Jean  is 
influencing  Meg,  or  Meg  is  influencing  Jean. 

Jean,  a  tall,  willowy  beauty  with  reddish-blond  hair 
and  clear  blue-gray  eyes,  seems  to  have  grown  softer, 
even  sweeter-looking,  than  she  was  a  few  years 
ago.  More  poised  and  more  at  ease.    And  the  girl  she 
is  on  television  has  taken  {Continued  on  page  67) 

Jean  is  Meg  Harper  in  Love  Of  Life,  CBS-TV,  M-F,  12:15  P.M.  EDT, 
for  Whitehall  Pharmacal  Co.,  Boyle-Midway,  Inc.,  and  Chef  BoyArDee. 


Love  Of  Life — and  Meg  Harper — 

have  taught  Jean  McBride 

an  exciting,  fundamental  truth 

By  FRANCES  KISH 


Fan  mail  reveals  appreciation  for  Jean's  talent  and  beauty. 


Like  Meg,  she's  curious  about  every- 
thing— from  sports  to  special  studies. 


She  reads,  every  chance  she  gets — not      Her  childhood  cut  short  by  her  career, 
only  her  scripts,  but  foreign  languages.      Jean  still  treasures  a  "good  luck"  doll. 


I.  Loving  warmth  is  the  basis  of  life  in  Chris  Hughes'  household.  It  is  natural 
that  the  children  reflect  their  upbringing.  But  the  anxiety  of  daily  life  is 
alien  only  to  young  Bobby — for  Penny,  like  her  older  brother,  knows  its  pains. 


52 


AS  THE  WORLD  TURNS 


2.  Stolen  moments,  clandestine  meetings  away  from  famil- 
iar eyes,  are  savored  as  an  escape — for  Edith,  from  lone- 
liness— for  Jim  Lowell,  Jr.,  from  an  unfortunate  marriage. 


fiWHHH 


3.  Once  classmates  at  law  school,  now  co-working  friends, 
Jim  confides  to  Chris  that,  if  it  were  not  for  his  daughter 
Ellen,   his   marriage  with   Claire   would    have   never   lasted. 


Times  have  changed  since  Chris  Hughes  was  a  youth 
on  his  father's  farm,  when  he  first  knew  he  wanted 
to  become  "a  great  lawyer."  His  parents,  his  sister 
and  brother,  twins  Edith  and  John,  had  had  to  skimp 
and  save  to  help  Chris  realize  that  ambition,  and  this 
had  made  him  feel  all  the  more  responsible  toward 
them.  The  eighteen  years  since  Chris  earned  his  law 
degree  have  seen  a  fulfillment  of  his  obligations.  .  .  . 
Now,  at  forty-three,  he  can  enjoy  a  happy  life  with  his 
wife  Nancy  and  their  three  children,  Don,  Penny  and 
Bobby.  Together,  Nancy  and  Chris  have  provided  a 
warm,  secure  home,  for  they  are  in  love.  They  derive 
pleasure  knowing  that  they  will  be  able  to  support 
Chris's  father,  Fred,  in  his  twilight  years.  And  they 
have  done  all  they  know  how,  to  help  Chris's  sister 
Edith.  Chris  had  financed  Edith's  training,  so  that  she 
now  has  a  good  position  at  the  Margo  beauty  salon. 
They  have  always  tried  to  include  her  in  their  plans. 
Then  what,  they  wonder,  is  disturbing  Edith?  What 
accounts  for  her  self-imposed  isolation  from  them?  .  .  . 
Chris  has  never  realized  that  Edith  harbors  an  envy  of 
their  parents'  indulgence  of  him,  and  considers  each 
moment  of  happiness  which  he  and  Nancy  have  en- 
joyed, as  happiness  of  which  she  has  been  deprived. 
It  was  Chris  who  had  the  benefit  of  a  good  educa- 
tion   while    she    got    the    short    end    of    life.     Maybe 


Chris  thought  he  was  doing  right  by  them.  But,  when 
he  fell  in  love  with  Nancy  at  college,  Edith  knew 
that  Chris's  loyalties  would  shift.  Why  should  Nancy 
care  about  what  Chris  owed  to  the  whole  family?  If 
he  thinks  he  did  his  bit  by  financing  her  beauty  course 
and  supporting  their  father — well,  Edith  broods,  he  is 
mistaken.  .  .  .  And  now,  Edith,  frustrated  at  the  age 
of  thirty-three,  because  of  exaggerated  memories,  finds 
relief  only  in  those  precious  moments  with  Jim.  A 
frightful  loneliness  is  replaced  by  clandestine  meet- 
ings with  a  married  man — her  own  brother's  close 
friend.  She  waits  through  lonely  hours  and  days, 
wondering:  Will  he  call  today?  Will  I  see  him? 
For  Jim  is  all  she  has.  .  .  .  Grief  seeks  its  level.  For 
it  is  to  Edith  that  her  niece,  Penny,  turns  with  her 
innermost  thoughts  and  hurts.  It  has  always  seemed 
to  the  young  girl  that  she  held  second  place  to  her 
sister,  Susan,  in  her  mother's  affections.  When  Susan 
died  so  tragically,  two  years  ago,  Penny  needed  her 
mother  more  than  ever — as  Nancy  needed  her.  But 
the  two  had  found  it  hard  to  open  their  hearts,  for  fear 
they  would  break.  So  Penny  turned  to  her  Aunt  Edith — 
her  sophisticated,  worldly  Aunt  Edith  who  lives  in  the 
lush  surroundings  of  her  own  apartment,  where  she 
can  do  as  she  pleases.  How  Penny  admires  her!  How 
lucky  Edith  is,  Penny  imagines.    And  how  understand - 


See  Next  Page- 


53 


4.  Penny  feels  rejected  by  her  mother,  so  turns  to  her  Aunt 
Edith  as  a  confidante — and  Edith  grants  comfort  and 
sympathy  as  she  learns  Penny,  too,  always  felt  rejected. 


ing.  For  she  gives  her  sixteen-year-old  niece  sym- 
pathy as  she  unburdens  her  thoughts  about  Nancy.  .  .  . 
The  adolescent  years  are  fraught  with  emotions  in  con- 
flict. Those  who  mature '  beyond  them  cannot  relive 
their  turbulence.  And  so  an  adolescent  like  Don  Hughes 
finds  empathy  only  among  his  equals.  He  is  angry  that 
his  parents  insist  he  complete  his  education,  rather 
than  enlist  in  the  service.  Like  so  many  seventeen- 
year-old  boys  today,  Don  isn't  really  sure  of  anything — 
except  that  he  loves  Janice  Turner.  .  .  .  But  Nancy  and 
Chris  can't  help  worrying  that  their  son  will  sacrifice 
all  the  promise  he's  shown  as  an  honor  student,  at  a 
time  when  he  cannot  know  his  own  heart.  Janice  is 
two  years  his  senior  and  Don  is  losing  touch  with 
youngsters  his  own  age.  How  can  Nancy  persuade  her 
son,  without  hurting  him?  .  .  .  Only  eleven-year-old 
Bobby  lives  in  a  world  which  is  secure  and  loving  and 
warm,  rich  with  experiences  he's  shared  with  Grand- 
father Fred.  Bobby  doesn't  have  to  struggle  for  recog- 
nition, he  feels  it  instinctively.  And  what  he  feels  is 
real — based  on  a  foundation  of  mutual  understanding, 
intelligence  and  love  which  has  characterized  Chris 
and  Nancy  Hughes'  home  for  years  .  .  .  the  struggling 
years  when  Nancy  worked  to  help  Chris — when  Chris 
took  the  job  with  Lowell  and  Barnes  which  his  class- 
mate, Jim  Lowell,  Jr.,  had  arranged — when  their  first 
child  came — and  all  the  good  years  that  have  followed. 
And,  now  that  Judge  Lowell  has  offered  Chris  a  part- 
nership, their  security  is  assured.  .  .  .  But  Chris  wonders 
whether  accepting  it  is  wise,  under  the  circum- 
stances. Obviously,  the  Judge  needs  him  now,  to  assure 
the  well-being  of  the  firm  of  Lowell,  Barnes  and 
Lowell.  Oh,  yes,  Jim,  Jr.,  was  made  a  partner  by 
his  father  a  long  time  ago — when  Chris  himself  de- 
served at  least  as  much  recognition.  But  now  that 
the  Judge  has  had  a  heart  attack,  my  qualifications 
are  being  recognized,  Chris  muses.  But  why  be  pig- 


AS  THE  WORLD  TURNS 

(Continued) 


:  ■. :; 


5.  Beset  by  strife  in  her  home,  Ellen  Lowell  wonders  why 
her  father  has  acted  so  strangely.  And  Claire  seeks  the 
answers,  trying  not  to  inflict  too  much  pain  upon   her. 


headed?  Nancy  wants  him  to  accept  the  offer.  And  as 
for  Jim  Lowell — Chris  knows  he  hasn't  really  had 
all  the  good  breaks.  .  .  .  Unlike  Chris,  Jim  Lowell, 
Jr.,  has  never  known  life's  best  moments.  Chris  can 
imagine  how  many  lonely,  tormented  hours  his  friend 
must  have  spent  when  he  left  home.  Jim  has  confided 
that  he  never  loved  his  wife  Claire  and,  if  it  weren't 
for  their  daughter  Ellen,  he  would  never  have  returned 
home.  But  Chris  also  knows  that  it  was  never  easy  for 
Claire.  For  she  has  had  more  than  her  share  of  misery, 
having  been  perplexed  for  years  about  her  husband's 
growing  coolness.  .  .  .  But  Chris  is  glad  to  see  that  Jim 
has  now  returned  to  her.  Perhaps  it  will  be  better 
for  them.  Jim  does  adore  his  daughter,  Ellen.  He  is 
not  the  sort  of  father  who  would  purposely  ruin  her 
life.  Chris  couldn't  even  suspect  that  his  old  friend 
is  involved  with  another  woman — with  his  own 
sister  Edith.   .  .  .  What  a  mosaic  a  human  life  forms 


54 


■■■■■ 


% 


M  M    &    -*    * 
till    1 


§ 


*». 


■ 


HE 


1 

* 

BHBflHj 

jT 


6.  Even  in  manhood,  Jim  is  dominated  by  his  father's  wishes.  When  Judge  Lowell 
insists  that  his  son  remain  home  with  his  wife  Claire,  Jim  consents.  But  the 
Judge  doesn't  know  Jim's  secret — nor  does  anyone  else.  How  long  can  it  be  kept? 


with  those  around  it!  In  Jim's  case,  the  pattern  is 
dominated  by  his  father.  Judge  Lowell  has  dedicated 
his  life  to  forming  his  son  in  his  own  image.  Even  Jim's 
marriage  to  Claire  was  the  wish  of  his  father.  And  the 
Judge  still  wields  the  gavel.  When  he  was  felled  by  a 
heart  attack,  his  wish  that  Jim  stay  with  Claire  was 
his  son's  command.  Will  Edith  wait  for  him,  Jim 
wonders.  They  might  at  least  still  meet,  while  he 
feigns  his  role  as  husband,  for  his  daughter  Ellen's 
sake — for  his  father's  sake.  .  .  .  But  young  Ellen,  in  her 
formative  years,  must  wonder  why  her  father  stayed 
away  from  home  for  so  long.  Can  a  marriage  like  her 
parents'  last?  How  long  can  the  liaison  between  Jim 
and  Edith  remain  a  secret?  .  .  .  And  what  about  Chris 
and  Nancy?  Will  they  be  able  to  resolve  the  frictions 
between  them  and  their  children?  What  can  they  do  to 
help  those  close  to  them  find  the  happiness  they  have 
themselves  known  through  time,  as  the  world  turns? 


Pictured  here,  as  seen  on  TV,  are: 

Chris  Hughes Don  MacLaughlin 

Edith  Hughes Ruth  Warrick 

Jim  Lowell,  Jr Les  Damon 

Claire  Lowell Anne  Burr 

Penny  Hughes Rosemary  Prinz 

Judge  James  T.  Lowell,  Sr William  Johnstone 

Ellen  Lowell Wendy  Drew 

Bobby  Hughes Bobby  Alford 


As  The  World  Turns,  CBS-TV,  M-F,  1 :30  to  2  P.M.  EDT,  is  spon- 
sored by  Procter  &  Gamble  for  Ivory  Snow,  Camay,  Crest,  Oxydol. 


55 


Another  theme  might  be  "All  Alone  (By  the  Telephone)."  Merv  can't  help 
but  feel  a  bit  lonely  when  he  sees  how  happy  ex-roommate  Loring  Buzzell 
is  with  Lu  Ann  Simms — and  their  baby  Cindy  reaches  up  a  loving  hand. 


■ 


66 


99 


. 


Merv  Griffin's  magic  song  adds  a 
plaintive  "Who?"    He's  found 
everything  he  wants — except  th 


time,  the  place  and  the  girl! 


By  MARIE  HAULER 


If  Shakespeare  will  pardon  the  liberty, 
"To  be  or  not  to  be  .  .  .  married"  is  prob- 
ably one  of  the  most  recurring  problems 
in  the  life  of  a  bachelor.  But  not  so  in  the 
life  of  bachelor  Merv  Griffin,  long-time  vocal 
favorite  with  the  Robert  Q.  Lewis  shows  and 
host  of  CBS-TV's  Sunday -morning  series, 
Look  Up  And  Live.  "To  be,  by  all  means!" 
is  Merv's  enthusiastic  answer. 

Obviously,  the  next  question  is:  "Then 
why  aren't  you?"  This  could  be  a  stopper, 
but  27-year-old  Merv  takes  it  right  in  his 
stride,  and  replies,  with  his  ready  and  quick 
smile,  "Well,  to  tell  the  truth,  I've  been 
pretty  close  to  it  once  or  twice.  But,  obvi- 
ously, something  was  missing.  I  think  prob- 
ably it  was — time.  You  know,  marriage 
takes  time.  At  least,  a  good  marriage  does. 
And,  up  to  about  a  year  ago,  I'd  have  led 
any  girl  a  heck  of  a  chase.  In  fact,  there  was 
a  period  of  four  years  when  the  only  person 
I  could  possibly  have  married  would  have 
been  a  lady  bus-driver.  Ever  noticed  how 
few  of  those  there  are?" 

If  there  are  any  lady  bus-drivers  reading 
this,  a  word  of  caution:  Relax!  As  good  a 
catch  as  Merv  Griffin  is,  those  days  are  gone 
forever.  What  Merv  is  referring  to  took 
place  a  few  years  back,  when  he  was  singing 
with  Freddy  Martin  and  his  band.  For  four 
years,  Merv  toured  the  country  with  Mar- 
tin's group.  "It  was  great  experience  for 
what  you  might  call  a  beginner  in  the  busi- 
ness," Merv  explains.  "Up  to  the  time  I 
joined  the  band,  most  of  my  singing  experi- 
ence revolved  around  an  early-morning 
radio  show  I  had  in  San  Francisco. 

"Which  in  itself   (Continued  on  page  90) 

Merv  is  host  of  Look  Up  And  Live  religious  program 
for  young  people,  CBS-TV,  Sun.,  10:30  A.M.  EDT. 
He  sings  on  The  Robert  Q.  Lewis  Show,  CBS  Radio, 
Sat.,  11:05  A.M.  EDT,  under  multiple  sponsorship. 


Genius  at  work:  "The  Girl  That   I   Marry"   would    have  to   understand   when    Merv's   busy   composing. 

Merv's  a   man  of  impulse,   likes  to  pack  up  for  a  quick  He'd  be  a  "Most  Happy  Fella,"  if  his  future  could  cook, 

trip — no  doubt  whistling,  "Let's  Get  Away  From   It  All."  too.  So  far,  he's  only  mastered  the  electric  coffeemaker. 


58 


"Absence"  was  The  Guiding  Light 
that  brought  Lynne  Rogers  and 
her  husband  ever  closer  together 

by  ED  MEYERSON 

"T  F  it  weren't  for  Tim,"  Lynne  Rogers  admits, 
Jj_"I'd  have  ended  up  a  housewife  in  Forest 

Hills."    Instead,  she  has  ended  up  a  successful 
young  actress,  playing  the  role  of  Marie  Wallace 
in  both  the  radio  and  television  versions  of  CBS's 
popular  daytime  drama,  The  Guiding  Light. 

What  makes  the  remark  unusual,  however, 
is  that  Tim  is  her  husband.    And,  far  from 
objecting  to  Lynne's  career  when  they  married, 
he  wouldn't  let  her  give  it  up.    "fie  gave  me 
the  courage  to  go  out  every  day  and  make  the 
rounds,"  she  recalls.    "  'You're  as  good  as 
the  others,'  he'd  tell  me.     'Now  go  out  and  get 
that  part.    And  then  make  something  of  it!'" 

Since  Tim  Taylor  is  a  successful  magazine 
writer,  editor,  and  night-club  columnist — with  a 
salary  that  can  easily  support  them  both — 
he  wasn't  so  much  urging  her  to  get  a  job.    He 
was  urging  her  to  go  out  and  be  an  individual. 
He  didn't  want  a  housewife  in  Forest  Hills, 
asking  him  what  (Continued  on  page  82) 

The  Guiding  Light,  Mon.  thru  Fri.,  is  sponsored  by  Procter 
&  Gamble— on  CBS-TV,  12:45  P.M.  EDT,  for  Ivory,  Duz  and 
Cheer— on  CBS  Radio,  1:45  P.M.  EDT,  for  Tide  and  Gleem. 


Writer  Tim  Taylor  and  actress  Lynne  once  found 
their  two  careers  meant  much  too  much  time  apart. 


"Your  move,"  says  Tim — whose  encouragement  led  Lynne 
to  her  fine  role  as  Marie  Wallace  in  The  Guiding  Light. 


Today,  they  help  each  other.    He  cues  her  as  she 
learns   her   lines,    she   inspires   him   as   he   writes. 


WH 


Wit 


Whodunit?  Whether 
you  like  your  mystery 
contemporary  or  classic 
ABC  has  the  answer 
each  day — same  time, 
different  program 


The    clues   were    easy    to   follow. 
Obviously,  it  was  an  inside  job — 
but   it   simply    couldn't   have   been 
the   butler.    Everything   pointed   to 
one  of  the  higher-ups.    To  protect 
the  people  involved,  we  won't  use 
any  names,  but  it's  an  open  and  shut 
case.  Somebody  at  ABC  Radio  likes 
a   mystery — and    also    has   a    great 
fondness    for    people    with    similar 
propensities.  .  .  .  Thus  the  caper  was 
pulled   off.    A   different,   but  regu- 
larly scheduled,  program  was  lined 
up  for  each  week-night.  The  same 
time     slot     was     cleared     Monday 
through  Friday.   Actors  were  shad- 
owed, keenly  surveilled  and  made 
to  sign  on  the  dotted  line.    Finally, 
everything  was  ready  and  the  boys 
went  into  action.  .  .  .  Mysterytime, 
a  five-a-week  series  of  five  separate 
programs,  was  foisted  on  the  public. 
As  it  turned  out,  the  public  was  a 
willing  accomplice.   Before  the  fact, 
they'd   clamored  for  more  mystery 
on  radio.    After  the  fact,  armchair 
detectives  happily  settled  down  each 
evening  at  the  same  time,  to  second- 
guess  hard-boiled  private  eyes  and 
classic    sleuths,    on    intrigues    and 
tales     of    suspense.     On     Mondays, 
"Mike  Malloy,  Private  Eye";  Tues- 
days, "The  Adventures  of  Sherlock 
Holmes";      Wednesdays,      "Masters 
of   Mystery";    Thursdays,   "Mystery 
Classics";  and  Fridays,  "Police  Blot- 
ter." .   .  .  Witnesses  for  the  prose- 
cution   were,    as    it   happened,    in- 
creasingly    difficult     to     find.      The 
nays,    in    fact,    were    caught    flat- 
footed.    In  what  is  a  most  arresting 
development,    ABC    has   plugged   a 
gaping   hole   in   the   schedule   with 
their  new  five-a-week  programming 
coup.   The  reports  on  radio's  demise 
were  grossly  exaggerated.  Our  parole, 
it  was  a  perfect  crime  .  .  .  program. 


DON  DOWD 

In  the  line-up  at  each  day's  Mys- 
sterytime  is  your  host,  Don  Dowd — 
a  man  with  a  rich  and  resonant 
voice  on  whom  a  casual  air  and  a 
tweed  jacket  sit  well.  But,  before 
he  wore  tweeds,  Don  wore  swad- 
dling clothes — in  Philadelphia.  .  .  . 
When  he  was  of  an  age  for  blazers 
and  white  bucks,  Don  wore  them  at 
Penn  State  College,  where  he  was 
known  as  the  "singing  grappler" — in 
token  of  his  many  trophies  as  intra- 
mural collegiate  wrestling  champion 
and  also  his  lead  solos  with  the  col- 
lege chorus.  Then  Don  moved  to 
Athens,  Ohio,  where  he  was  gradu- 
ated from  Ohio  University  with  a 
Bachelor  of  Music  degree.  .  .  .  Wait- 
ing for  a  break  in  opera,  Don  took 
an  announcing  job  on  a  Mansfield, 
Ohio  radio  station.  One  night,  he 
subbed  for  the  ailing  emcee  of  a 
musical  program.  The  next  day, 
postal  clerks  worked  overtime  de- 
livering the  fan  mail.  Don's  radio 
career  has  now  reached  its  twenty - 
sixth  year.  .  .  .  For  twelve  of  those 
years,  Don  was  assigned  to  Break- 
fast Club,  often  filling  in  for  Don 
McNeill  when  he  went  on  vacation. 
On  stage,  Don  has  taken  curtain 
calls  in  "Time  Out  for  Ginger,"  "Ed- 
ward, My  Son,"  "Goodbye  My 
Fancy,"  "Light  Up  the  Sky,"  and 
"The  Silver  Whistle."  ...  The 
Dowds — the  missus's  name  is  Betty 
— have  three  children:  Don,  Jr.,  21, 
Patricia,  15,  and  Betsy,  13.  Don's 
hobbies  include  photography  and 
fishing.  He's  a  "do-it-yourselfer." 


MONDAY 

MIKE  MALLOY, 

PRIVATE  EYE 


Tough  but  honest,  Mike  Malloy 
a  private  eye  out  to  protect  the 
public  against  the  rackets  and  the 
men  who  run  them.  Steve  Brodie, 
who  stars  as  Mike,  made  the  show- 
business  racket  his  own  after  he 
was  graduated  from  high  school  in 
Wichita,  Kansas.  There's  nothing 
private  about  the  events  that  fol- 
lowed. .  .  .  Steve  started  as  a  prop- 
erty boy,  then  acted  with  stock 
companies.  When  the  demand  for 
his  theatrical  services  slowed  down, 
he  worked  for  a  year  in  the  Texas 
and  Oklahoma  oil  fields.    After  the 


Steve  Brodie  was  a  greasemonkey 
until  he  scored  with  greasepaint. 

war,  he  headed  for  California.  He 
hired  an  agent — who  promptly  ad- 
vised him  to  hang  on  to  his  job  at 
the  gas  station.  .  .  .  February  2,  1943, 
marked  the  turning  point,  with  a 
long-term  M-G-M  contract  and  a 
major  role  in  "Thirty  Seconds  Over 
Tokyo."  ...  On  TV,  Steve  has  ap- 
peared in  many  of  the  top  drama 
shows.  At  home,  he  likes  to  swim, 
and  the  private  eye  has  a  particu- 
larly sympathetic  ear  for  hi-fi. 


60 


^™ 


WEDNESDAY 
MASTERS  OF  MYSTERY 


This  is  a  feast  for  connoisseurs.  Each 
week,  there's  a  different  story,  dif- 
ferent author,  different  cast.  Pro- 
duced live  in  New  York,  the  pro- 
gram highlights  the  best  of  crime 
fiction  authored  by  America's  fore- 
most mystery  writers:  George  Fass, 
Edward  Bloodworth,  Jerry  McGill, 
John  Shaw  and  Louis  Estes.  Vet- 
eran actors  commit  and  solve  the 
crimes.  Guiding  the  operation  is 
producer-director  Clark  Andrews, 
who  also  did  Fat  Man,  Top  Guy, 
Gregory  Hood  and  Rogue's  Gallery. 
.  .  .  Such  top  performers  have  ap- 
peared as  Peggy  Allenby,  a  New 
Yorker  seen  on  Broadway  in  "The 
Happy  Journey"  and  "Death  of  a 
Salesman"  and  currently  featured 
on  TV  in  The  Edge  Of  Night.  Court 
Benson,  who  appears  in  daytime 
dramas,  and  such  nighttime  dramas 
as  Robert  Montgomery  Presents  and 
Kraft,  has  been  heard  from,  as  has 
George  Petrie,  a  Broadway  and  film 
star  who  has  such  video  credits  as 
Jackie  Gleason's  show,  Search  For 
Tomorrow  and  Ethel  And  Albert. 


See  Next  Page- 


Elementary!  It's  John  Sielgud  as  Holmes,  Ralph  Richardson  as  Watson 


TUESDAY 

THE  ADVENTURES  OF 

SHERLOCK  HOLMES 


Wrote  The  Baker  Street  Irregulars, 
the '  world-wide  organization  of 
Sherlock  Holmes  devotees:  "Sir 
John  Gielgud  is  the  Master  personi- 
fied; Sir  Ralph  Richardson  is  Wat- 
son himself  as  he  was  writ;  the 
stories  are  straight  out  of  the 
Canon."  .  .  .  With  both  grandmothers 
actresses,  John  Gielgud  was  born 
to  the  theater.  When  he  was  nine, 
he  played  Shylock  and  Humpty 
Dumpty  at  school.  By  the  time  he 
was  twenty-five,  he  was  a  star.  Sir 
John  was  seen  by  American  movie- 
goers in  "Julius  Caesar"  and  "Rich- 
ard III."  The  knight  is  a  bachelor, 
likes  music  and  painting.  .  .  .  Sir 
Ralph  Richardson  entered  the  the- 
ater at  nineteen — to  work  his  way 
through  medical  school.  But  he 
couldn't  cure  his  own  footlight 
fever,  which  ran  highest  during  his 
years  with  the  Old  Vic.  His  screen 
credits  include  "The  Fallen  Idol," 
"Breaking  Through  the  Sound  Bar- 
rier" and  "Richard  III."  He's  mar- 
ried and  has  one  son.  Hobbies: 
drawing,  squash  and  tennis. 


Scripts  are  done  by  America's  foremost  writers  of  crime  stories  on  "Masters  of 
Mystery,"  which  also  features  outstanding  stories  from  radio's  top  mystery  pro- 
grams. Veteran  actors  such  as  George  Petrie,  Court  Benson  and  Peggy  Allenby  work 
with  producer-director  Clark  Andrews  to  air  an  exciting  series  for  whodunit  fans. 


61 


Michael  Redgrave 


Orson  Welles 
THURSDAY 
MYSTERY  CLASSICS 


Alec  Guinness 


This  is  a  name-dropper's  holiday. 
The  stories  come  from  such  dis- 
tinguished pens  as  those  of  Robert 
Louis  Stevenson,  Dumas,  Oscar 
Wilde,  Alexander  Pushkin,  Charles 
Dickens,  Feodor  Dostoyevski  and 
A.  Conan  Doyle.  The  actors  are 
worthy  of  their  writers.  .  .  .  Debo- 
nair Michael  Redgrave,  born  in 
Bristol,  England,  in  1908,  is  the  third 
generation  of  a  theatrical  family. 
But  Michael  first  became  a  Modern 
Languages  Master.  Three  years 
later,    he    switched    from    tutor    to 


Laurence  Olivier 


thespian.  He  married  his  co-star, 
Rachel  Kempson,  and  they  have 
one  son  and  two  daughters.  On  cel- 
luloid, Michael's  been  seen  in  "The 
Lady  Vanishes,"  "The  Browning 
Version,"  "The  Captive  Heart"  and 
"The  Importance  of  Being  Earnest." 
...  At  seven,  Orson  Welles  threat- 
ened to  jump  off  a  high  ledge  to 
prove  he'd  rather  act  than  take 
piano  lessons.  He  grew  up  to  be- 
come the  enfant  terrible  of  the 
theater.  At  22,  he  founded  his  famed 
Mercury  Theater.  A  year  later,  he 
caused  a  nation-wide  panic  with  his 
radio  version  of  an  invasion  from 
Mars.  At  26,  came  "Citizen  Kane." 
This  season,  playing  "King  Lear"  at 
New  York's  City  Center,  he  frac- 
tured one  ankle,  sprained  the 
other,  and  went  on  in  a  wheelchair. 
He  is  married  to  the  Countess  Di 
Girafalco  (Paola  Mori).  He  likes, 
magic,  cartooning,  swimming  and 
reading.  .  .  .  There  is  what  amounts 
to  a  cult  of  Alec  Guinness  followers, 
who  saw  him  in  "Kind  Hearts  and 
Coronets,"  "Oliver  Twist,"  "Lavender 
Hill  Mob,"  "The  Prisoner,"  "The 
Ladykillers"  and  "The  Swan."  But 
this  London  man  of  many  faces  start- 
ed out  as  an  advertising  copywrit- 
er, before  turning  actor  with  John 
Gielgud's  Repertory  Company  and 
the  Old  Vic.  In  1938,  he  married 
red-haired  Merula  Salaman.  They 
have  one  son.  Like  "The  Man  in 
the  White  Suit,"  Alec  likes  to  build 
models.  .  .  .  Sir  Laurence  Olivier, 
born  in  Dorking,  England,  has  been 


on  stage  on  both  sides  of  the  pond 
since  he  was  eighteen.  He  won  an 
Academy  Award  in  1948  for  "Ham- 
let," a  film  he  also  produced  and 
directed.  His  other  movies  include 
"Wuthering  Heights,"  "Rebecca," 
"Pride  and  Prejudice,"  "That 
Hamilton  Woman,"  "The  Beggar's 
Opera,"  "Henry  V"  and  "Richard 
HI."  He  is  married  to  Vivien  Leigh 
and,  when  he  gets  away  from  foot- 
lights, he  has  a  multitude  of  hob- 
bies: tennis,  swimming,  motoring, 
flying,  golf  and  gardening. 


John  Sielgud 


62 


FRIDAY 
POLICE  BLOTTER 

Add  two-fisted  action  to  scientific 
police  work  and  the  answer  is,  crime 
doesn't  pay.  With  Sergeant  Brad 
Peters  on  duty,  the  game  of  cops 
and  robbers  is  decidedly  unequal. 
As  played  by  Bill  Zuckert,  this  is 
a  hard-hitting,  honest  policeman 
who,  considering  his  six-foot-one, 
240-pound  frame,  is  enough  to  dis- 
courage even  the  most  intrepid  of 
lawbreakers.  .  .  .  Actually,  Mrs. 
Zuckert's  boy  hadn't  planned  to  be 
either  an  actor  or  a  cop.  Born  in  New 
York  City,  he  migrated  to  Washing- 
ton, D.C.,  to  work  under  Civil  Ser- 
vice in  the  Department  of  the  In- 
terior's Office  of  Indian  Affairs  for 
six  years.  In  Washington,  and 
neighboring  Virginia  and  Maryland, 
Bill  began  to  try  out  with  little- 
theater  groups.  He  played  some  fifty 
non-paying  radio  shows  for  such 
organizations  at  the  Red  Cross,  U.S. 
Navy  and  March  of  Dimes.  His  big 
break  came  when  he  won  the  lead 
in  a  dramatic  segment  of  Kate 
Smith's  show.  He  played  Daniel 
Boone.  .  .  .  Bill  spent  the  next  two 
years  with  the  25th  Special  Seabee 
Battalion  on  New  Guinea.  Wending 
his  way  back  to  civihan  life,  he 
began  to  play  both  sides  of  the  law 
on  such  radio  shows  as  Gang  Blist- 
ers, Treasury  Agent,  Counterspy, 
This  Is  Your  FBI,  Official  Detective 
and  FBI  In  Peace  And  War.  Vari- 
ous real-life  police  officers,  working 
on  the  shows  in  technical  capaci- 
ties, claimed  Bill  "sounds  like  all 
the  cops  in  the  world."  Bill's  also 
enforced  the  law  on  TV,  and  he  says 
he  really  looks  like  a  policeman  in 
his  rented  uniform.  Other  TV  ap- 
pearances have  included  Robert 
Montgomery  Presents,  Armstrong 
Theater,  The  Web,.  Danger,  Sus- 
pense and  the  Jackie  Gleason  Show. 
.  When  he's  not  pursuing  male- 
factors, Bill  pursues  the  fish  at 
Montauk  Point,  off  Long  Island. 
Otherwise,  he's  at  home  at  Mom- 
basha  Lake,  three  miles  outside  of 
the  town  of  Monroe,  New  York. 
Here  he  lives  in  a  comfortable 
three-bedroom  house  and  his  hob- 
bies are  gardening,  reading  and  "the 
kids" — a  seven-year-old  son  and  a 
daughter  going  on  six.  The  Zuckerts 
have  an  acre  of  ground,  two  dogs, 
and  a  wonderful  time. 


Bill  Zuckert,  say  police  authorities,  "sounds  like  all  the  cops  in  the  world." 


Mysterytime  is  heard  on  ABC  Radio,  Monday  through  Friday,  at  7:30  P.M.  EDT. 


63 


TKie    Edge   o-ff   Nigh 


TV  "first":  The  new  serial  drama  seen  for  a  half-hour  every  weekday  on  CBS-TV,  The  Edge  Of  Night 
follows  the  stirring  adventures  of  Detective  Lieutenant  Mike  Karr,  portrayed  by  John  Larkin.  Teal 
Ames   plays   opposite    Larkin,    as   Sara    Lane,    and    Loren   Gilbert   is   seen   as   Sara's   uncle,    Harry   Lane. 


64 


That's  time  to  detect 
crime— but,  on  a 
sunny  day,  John  Larkin's 
heart  hits  a  home  run 
at  Yankee  Stadium 


By 
MARY  TEMPLE 


Mike  Karr,  of  CBS-TV's  daytime  drama,  The 
Edge  of  Night,  is  a  man  with  loyalties  which 
are  sometimes  in  conflict  between  love  and 
duty.  In  the  same  way,  John  Larkin — who  plays 
Detective  Lieutenant  Karr,  Monday  through 
Friday — is  torn  between  two  loyalties.  With  the 
baseball  season  in  full  swing,  duty  dictates  that  he 
stay  in  the  studio  every  weekday  afternoon  .   .  . 
while,  only  a  few  miles  away  at  the  Yankee 
Stadium,  his  team  is  sweating  it  out.  Without  his 
encouragement  from  the  sidelines.  Without  his 
sharing  in  the  excitement.  It's  enough  to  anguish 
the  soul  of  any  dedicated  Yankee  fan,  of  which 
multitudinous  breed  John  is  the  most! 

Just  give  John  Larkin  a  day  off,  or  set  him  free  on 

Continued     w 


From  his  favorite  spot  in  the  bleachers,  John  cheers  as  Yogi 
Berra  rounds  the  bases  and  heads  for  home  plate!  A  top 
athlete  in  school,  Larkin  hasn't  had  much  time  for  active 
sports  recently.  He's  been  too  busy  acting — and  "detecting" 
— first  as  radio's  Perry  Mason,  and  now  as  TV's  Mike  Karr. 


d^c*   o-f   Night 


(Continued) 


After  work — on  rarer  occasions,  after  one  of 
those  Yankee  games — John  fixes  a  bite  to  eat  in 
the  Larkin  "bachelor  apartment"  or  relaxes  while 
listening  to  one  of  the  jazz  records  he  collects. 


Busy  phone — he  could  be  quite  a  man-about-town 
if  he  had  the  time!  But  it's  all  John  can  do,  to 
see  the  Broadway  shows  and  good  films  which  are 
his  favorite  fare  when  the  Yanks  aren't  in  town. 


a  weekend,  and  you  don't  have  to  look  far  to  find  him. 
He's  there,  in  his  usual  place  in  the  bleachers,  scorning 
the  comforts  of  the  reserved  seat  he  has  long  been 
able  to  afford,  ever  since  becoming  a  highly  successful 
performer  in  both  radio  and  television. 

"In  the  bleachers  you  find  the  real  live-and-die- 
in~the-Stadium  fans,"  says  John.   "They're  out,  in  the 
broiling  sun,  the  wind  and  the  sudden  storms,  because 
nothing  could  keep  them  away.  A  group  has  been 
meeting  regularly  for  the  past  several  years — all  crazy 
fans,  like  me.  About  twice  a  year,  we  celebrate  a 
victory  or  go  into  mourning — temporarily,  of  course — 
for  a  defeat.  It's  almost  like  a  club  now." 

All  of  the  foregoing  will  undoubtedly  explain  why,  if 
you're  looking  in  at  The  Edge  of  Night  on  your  TV  set 
some  afternoon,  and  Lieut.  Karr's  jaw  seems  set 
even  more  sternly  than  usual,  it's  probably  because 
John  Larkin's  heart  is  out  on  the  playing  field  at  the 
Stadium,  sorrowing  over  some  momentary  crisis  in  the 
fortunes  of  those  exciting  Yankees. 

Physically,  Larkin  looks  more  like  a  fellow  who 
would  participate  actively  in  sports  than  in  watching 
them.  (He  did,  at  school,  going  in  for  baseball,  basket- 
ball, and  the  rest.  He  still  likes  to  go  eighteen  holes  of 
golf.  But  there  isn't  time  for  much  of  this  in  his  life, 
any  more.)  He  is  a  six-footer,  a  lean  180  pounds, 
square-jawed;  has  keen  gray-blue  eyes  under  dark 
brows,  a  decisive  manner,  (Continued  on  page  88) 

John  Larkin  is  seen  as  Lieut.  Mike  Karr  in  The  Edge  Of  Night. 
CBS-TV,  M-F,  4:30  to  5  P.M.  EDT,  as  sponsored  by  the  Procter 
&  Gamble  Company  for  Tide,  Crest,  Fluffo,  and  Spic  and  Span. 


What  Every  Woman 
Wants 


(Continued  from  page  51) 
on  some  of  Jean's   own  aura   of  softness 
and  of  ease,  under  the  sometimes  brittle 
exterior  manner  of  Meg  Harper. 

One  sign  that  this  new  personality  of 
Meg's  comes  through  to  viewers,  at  times, 
is  the  change  in  the  mail  that  comes  to 
Jean.  "Women  no  longer  send  such  crit- 
ical mail  to  Meg.  They  seem  to  like  her 
better,  and  begin  to  understand  her  better. 
They  admire  her  honesty  and  her  realistic 
approach  to  life,  even  while  they  dis- 
approve of  many  things  she  does.  I,  too, 
like  these  things  in  Meg,  and  have  never 
thought  of  her  as  shallow  and  sophis- 
ticated. Only  as  a  woman  with  a  complex 
personality,  trying  to  find  happiness  but 
going  about  it  in  the  wrong  way. 

"As  a  child,"  Jean  explains  simply,  "Meg 
had  felt  rejected  in  comparison  with  her 
sister  Vanessa,  who  has  always  been  good 
and  kind  and  wonderful.  Meg  admires 
Vanessa,  but  feels  herself  in  competition 
with  her  sister.  People  instinctively  love 
Van.  They  reserve  judgement  on  Meg. 
Meg  is  the  one  who  entered  into  a  loveless 
marriage  to  gain  the  power  and  position 
and  money  she  wanted.  When  the  mar- 
riage didn't  work  out,  and  she  lost  all 
these  things,  she  was  more  embittered  than 
ever.  Meg  is  essentially  a  lonely  woman, 
still  searching  for  a  happy  relationship 
with  a  man — with  Beany,  the  child  of  her 
unhappy  marriage — with  life  itself.  I  find 
her  a  sympathetic  character  to  play." 

Of  course,  people  still  come  up  to  Jean 
on  the  street  or  in  restaurants,  recogniz- 
ing her  as  the  glamorous  Meg  Harper,  and 
ask  such  questions  as:  "How  can  you  be 
so  beautiful  and  so  mean  at  the  same 
time?"  Or,  "Don't  you  get  tired  of  being 
that  wicked  woman?"  Jean  enjoys  this, 
knowing  that  it  means  she  has  done  the 
part  well.  When  she  meets  a  new  man  and 
explains  her  work — "I'm  a  wicked  woman 
on  television" — it's  flattering  to  her  as  an 
actress  to  have  them  show  their  disbelief. 

"Just  the  same,"  Jean  adds,  "it's  true 
that  there's  a  bit  of  Meg  in  most  women. 
Oh,  certainly,  she  has  that  hard  exterior 
manner  at  times,  that  coldness,  but  don't 
we  all  get  a  little  that  way  when  we're 
hurt?  And  Meg  has  been  hurt  many,  many 
times.  I  have  my  'Meg  moments,'  too, 
when  friends  are  apt  to  say,  'Now  you're 
acting  just  like  that  girl  you  do  on  tele- 
vision!' And  they're  right!" 

Like  this  exciting  woman  she  plays, 
.  Jean  herself  is  a  completely  feminine 
woman,  loving  comfortable,  gracious  liv- 
ing, loving  pretty  clothes  and  flattering 
hats,  loving  to  dress  up  stunningly  for 
dates  and  parties.  "I  have  outgrown  want- 
ing to  go  to  big  parties.  Now  I  prefer  small 
groups  of  people.  I  find  myself  getting 
quite  'Meggish'  and  aloof  with  strangers, 
anyhow.  I  always  did." 

It's  true  that,  with  those  she  doesn't 
know  well,  she  gets  less  and  less  like  Jean 
McBride  and  more  and  more  like  Meg. 
"It's  rather  a  shame,  I  suppose,"  she  admits, 
"because  I'm  not  really  that  way  at  all.  I 
like  people,  and  I  like  making  new  friends, 
but  it  seems  to  take  me  a  while  to  feel 
entirely  comfortable  with  them." 

Not  content  to  live  only  Meg's  life — 
fascinating  as  that  is — Jean  has  been  fill- 

g  her  own  life  with  interesting  things: 
When  you  get  into  a  demanding  pro- 
ession   as   young   as   I   did,    right   out   of 

gh  school,  without  completing  the  ed- 
cation  you  want,  you  are  always  trying 
fill  in  things  you  missed.  I  am  going  to 
dy  French  this  year,  partly  because  I 
ope  some  day  to  go  to  France,  and  partly 
ecause  I  want  to  learn  another  language. 


"MAN, 

THAT 
MINEO'S 

THE  MOST!" 

Don't  miss  the  story 

of  young  SaVs  sensational  rise 
to  stardom  in  the  August  issue 


of 


PHOTOPLAY 


MMvN***'       M(w»   **vrt««-       MM*  fmtwMI        -     WO* 

MJafYYaftfil   All 


*H«  HfttBHKF  MOM*  M*m  *>* 

ROMANO  BRAZZI 


AT  NEWSSTANDS  NOW 


Also  in  this  issue 

SHEREE  NORTH 

Her  "overnight"  success  took  12  years  of  struggling 

MY  PRINCESS  "YUM  YUM" 

Mitzi  Gaynor's  hubby  tells  why  he's  riding  cloud  7 

ROSSANO  BRAZZI 

He  leaves  his  heart  in  Rome 

EXCLUSIVE- 
PHOTOPLAY'S  sneak  preview  of  "War  and  Peace" 

WIN  A  PRIZE 

Give  "Magoo"  a  first  name 

PLUS 

The  most  complete  gossip  coverage  of  Hollywood   with  Ruth 
Waterbury,  Cal  York  and  Sidney  Skolsky 

SPRING  BYINGTON's  warm-hearted   answers  to  your  letters 
PHOTOPLAY   At    Newsstands    Now— Just    20c 


67 


I  am  doing  more  reading  than  ever,  trying 
to  catch  up  on  some  of  the  books  I  have 
missed.  I  have  been  studying  acting,  try- 
ing to  improve  my  work  constantly,  in 
Harold  Clurman's  and  Sandy  Meisner's 
classes  for  professionals.  I  had  the  ex- 
perience of  being  in  a  Studio  One  drama. 
But,  except  for  my  voice,  I  don't  think 
anyone  recognized  me  either  as  Jean 
McBride  or  Meg  Harper — which  is  good, 
of  course."  (It's  difficult  to  disguise  a  voice 
like  hers — throaty,  sexy,  fitting  the  per- 
sonalities of  both  Jean  and  Meg.  She  has 
always  suspected  that  her  voice — and  her 
height  of  five-foot-seven— kept  her  from 
being  cast  as  an  ingenue  even  when  she 
was  very  young.) 

Music  was  one  of  Jean's  early  interests 
— she  studied  clarinet,  playing  in  the  high 
school  band,  thinks  she  really  got  dis- 
couraged when  they  marched  on  the  chilly, 
frozen  football  fields  to  play  the  school 
songs  for  dear  old  alma  mater:  "I  just 
never  was  the  outdoor,  rugged  type,  al- 
though I  love  such  games  as  tennis  and 
wish  I  had  more  time  for  exercise.  I'm  not 
thinking  of  brushing  up  on  the  clarinet — 
not  any  more.  But  I  do  want  to  go  on  with 
a  musical  education." 

Although  this  is  a  girl  who  dislikes 
routine  of  any  kind,  Jean  is  bound  to  a 
strict  one  because  of  the  demands  of  play- 
ing a  daily  television  role.  She  thinks  about 
the  fun  there  would  be  in  traveling  all 
over  the  world  and  having  all  kinds  of 
new  and  different  experiences.  So  far, 
however,  her  trips  have  been  limited  to 
vacations  on  the  West  Coast,  a  recent  one 
in  Nassau,  and  visits  to  Mexico — the  latter 
since  her  sister  Evelyn  married  and  went 
there  to  live.  Evelyn  is  only  a  year  younger 
than  Jean  and — unlike  Meg  and  Vanessa 
— these  two  sisters  have  always  been  close 
and  companionable. 


An  average  Jean  McBride  day  is  about 
like  this:  She  gets  up  at  7:30,  has  a  quick 
breakfast  in  her  small  apartment  in  a 
mid-town  hotel,  is  off  to  the  studio  shortly 
after  8:30.  It's  only  a  brief  walk  from  the 
hotel,  but  there  are  usually  people  who 
recognize  her  as  she  dashes  along,  and  she 
waves  quick  greetings  as  she  goes.  There 
is  rehearsal  all  morning,  the  broadcast  at 
12:15  (EDT),  a  break  for  lunch,  and  an 
early  afternoon  run-through  for  the  next 
day's  show.  Then  she  can  shop  and 
window-shop — if  she  hasn't  fittings  or  in- 
terviews, or  appointments  with  photog- 
raphers— and  get  home  to  go  over  her 
script  once  more,  relax  a  while  and  get 
dressed  for  dinner.  She  finds  she  must 
get  to  bed  early  most  nights,  except 
Fridays  and  Saturdays,  when  there  is  no 
show  to  prepare  for  next  day  and  she 
can  sleep  a  little  later.  As  a  popular 
bachelor  girl,  Jean  never  has  lacked  for 
invitations — although  there  seem  to  be 
recent  signs  that  the  field  has  narrowed 
down  to  one  rather  "special"  person,  with 
whom  she  feels  at  ease  and  therefore  com- 
pletely herself,  with  no  trace  of  Meg's 
imperious  ways. 

Jean  has  really  been  a  professional  ac- 
tress since  she  was  sixteen,  because  that 
summer  she  worked  at  the  famous,  just 
recently  closed  Hedgerow  Theater,  near 
Philadelphia.  After  the  Hedgerow,  she 
could  hardly  wait  to  try  her  luck  in  New 
York,  but  her  parents  insisted — wisely, 
she  knows  now — that  not  only  must  she 
finish  high  school  but  wait  for  her  sister 
Evelyn  to  finish,  so  they  could  go  together. 
Jean  was  eighteen  and  Evelyn  seventeen 
when  they  finally  reached  New  York,  filled 
with  hope  and  ambition.  Both  studied 
modeling  for  a  while,  Evelyn  to  become  a 
top-notch  model  until  her  marriage,  Jean 
to  go  back  to  her  first  love,  acting,  within 


68 


PLAY  EDITOR 


Who  are  your  favorites?       Send  your  votes  for  the  TV,  radio  or 

recording  artists  you  want  to  see  in  TV  Radio  Mirror. 

In  color,  I  want  to  see: 


TV  ACTOR 

TV  ACTRESS 

RADIO  ACTOR 

RADIO   ACTRESS... 
RECORDING    STAR. 


The  features  I  liked  best  in  this  issue  of  TV  RADIO  MIRROR  are: 
1 


2. 
3. 


The  features  I  like  least  in  this  issue  are: 


1. 

2. 
3. 


I   enjoy   the  stories   on   local   personalities YES   □ NO   □ 

I  would  like  to  see  more  of  them YES   □ NO   □ 

I  use  the  program  listings  and  would  like 

to  see  them   continued YES   □ NO   □ 

YOUR  NAME , 

STREET  OR  BOX  NO 

CITY    OR    TOWN STATE 

Mail  your  answers  to:   TV  Radio  Mirror,  Play  Editor  Poll,  Box  1747, 
Grand  Central  Station,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 


a  short  time,  realizing  that  her  drea 
centered  in  show  business,  getting  oppor- 
tunities to  be  in  summer  stock,  touring 
with  a  Shubert  musical,  "My  Romance." 

Oddly  enough,  for  such  a  glamorous 
girl,  Jean  was  never  very  interested  in 
the  subject  of  clothes  in  those  early  days  in 
New  York.  Maybe  it  was  because  the 
glamour  was  always  so  apparent,  anyhow 
— the  vital,  natural  beauty.  "Evelyn  un- 
derstood the  importance  of  dressing  and 
looking  one's  best,  even  from  the  begin- 
ning," she  recalls.  "She  always  looked 
stunning,  wore  her  best  outfit  when  she 
made  the  rounds  for  jobs.  I  mostly  wore 
my  second-best  things,  often  a  plain  black 
coat  which  didn't  really  do  a  thing  for  me 
except  keep  me  warm.  After  a  while,  I 
learned  better.  After  a  while,  my  interest 
in  clothes — good  clothes — came  as  a  nat- 
ural development  of  growing  more  mature. 
Certain  things  are  best  for  me — the  sheath 
line,  and  the  Empire  line,  for  instance.  I 
adore  stunning  cocktail  dresses — the  kind 
Meg  wears — a  little  sexy,  but  in  good  taste. 
I  like  nice  suits  and  casual  things.  I  like 
tweeds,  and  in  summer  I  like  gay  cottons. 
The  only  time  I  go  in  for  bright  colors  is 
in  warm-weather  clothes — there's  some- 
thing about  the  sun  that  brings  out  the 
gypsy  in  most  of  us  girls." 

Jean  has  been  in  show  business  now 
about  ten  years,  long  enough  to  have 
learned  that,  while  its  rewards  can  be 
great,  so  can  its  sacrifices.  Once  she  al- 
most gave  it  up,  when  her  father  advised 
her  to  come  back  home  and  take  a  course 
in  shorthand  and  typing  as  a  second  pro- 
fession to  fall  back  upon.  She  did  go  back. 
But,  before  the  course  was  finished,  she 
got  a  chance  to  try  for  a  scholarship  in  the 
Irvine  Studio  for  the  Theater,  in  New 
York.  There  was  never  again  any  ques- 
tion of  remaining  an  actress. 

"Of  course,  I  am  more  realistic  now 
about  the  acting  profession,"  she  says.  "I 
know  it  means  giving  up  many  things,  at 
least  while  you  are  getting  established.  I 
know  it  is  hard  work,  constant  studying, 
demanding  of  time  and  energy.  Certainly 
television  is  all  these  things.  But,  on  Lowe 
Of  Life,  everything  is  made  easier  by  our 
wonderful  little  group — our  producer,  Dick 
Dunn,  our  director,  Larry  Auerbach,  a 
really  great  cast  and  crew.  The  two  men 
I  play  opposite  most  often — Steve  Gethers 
as  Hal  Craig,  and  Carl  Betz  as  Collie  and, 
for  some  time,  Frank  Milan  as  Alden 
Miller — and,  of  course,  Dick  Coogan  as 
Paul  Raven,  who  is  married  to  my  sister 
Vanessa  on  the  show — couldn't  be  finer. 

"The  mail  that  came  in  when  the  Hal 
Craig — Meg  Harper  romance  was  at  its 
height  (that's  Steve  and  I)  was  sensational. 
Viewers  seemed  to  recognize  that  this 
feeling  Meg  had  for  Hal  was  the  first  real 
emotion  that  had  entered  her  life  for  a 
long  time.  The  fact  that  her  family  could 
not  approve  their  relationship,  and  that 
her  involvement  with  this  man  brought 
great  danger  both  to  her  and  to  them, 
seemed  to  bring  out  all  their  sympathies, 
probably  because  she  went  on  trying  to 
protect  Hal  even  after  she  realized  that 
this  man  was  seriously  ill — mentally  ill." 

Playing  this  complicated  but  always 
fascinating  Meg  Harper  is  a  constant  chal- 
lenge and  delight  to  Jean.  But  she  wants 
to  make  sure  that  the  other  things  in  life 
don't  get  side-tracked  too  long:  "Meg 
would  be  the  first  to  say  that  every  girl 
should  have  a  satisfying,  happy  life  of  her 
own.  I  didn't  feel  quite  so  strongly  about 
this,  perhaps,  the  last  time  TV  Radio 
Mirror  interviewed  me,  two  years  ago — 
but  I  know  now  that  this  is  what  every 
girl  really  wants.  Marriage,  home  life, 
children.  Meg  longs  for  the  security  and 
happiness  that  real  love  brings  to  a  woman. 
I  am  hoping  she  will  find  it.  That  would 
be  wonderful  for  Jean  McBride,  too!" 


(Continued  from  page  32) 
woman  should  do — in  my  own  intuition. 
A  third  mistake  was  that  of  being  em- 
barrassed by  the  medicos'  obvious  and 
rather  amused  opinion  of  me  as  a  'hypo- 
chondriac' My  advice  to  you,  one  and  all, 
is  this:  If  they  want  to  call  you  a  'hypo,' 
let  them!  Better  a  live  hypo,"  Virginia 
laughed,  "than  a  dead  stoic! 

"Still  and  all,"  she  continues,  "my  sus- 
picions had  been  lulled  .  .  .  and  now, 
suddenly,  here  it  was. 

"Into  the  stillness  of  that  room  in 
Presbyterian  Hospital's  Harkness  Pavilion, 
I  said  again,  'Cancer?' 

"  'Well,  er,'  the  doctor  swallowed,  hes- 
itated— so  loath,  poor  man,  to  say  what 
must  be  said — 'yes,  it  is.' 

"  'How  far  gone?  Do  I  have  a  chance? 
What  are  my  chances?' 

"The  doctor  averted  his  eyes  and  said 
'You  know  how  I  love  you,  Virginia.  Be- 
cause I  do,  and  because  I  feel  special  skill 
is  required  here,  I  have  called  in  the  best 
man  in  the  field.' 

"Then  what  was  I  to  think?  I  thought 
of  so  many  friends  with  cancer,  of  their 
pain,  the  suffering  of  their  families,  too. 
I  thought  of  my  good  friend,  my  good 
doctor — who  was  still,  in  his  opinion,  not 
good  enough. 

"And  so  not  thinking,  I  did  the  most 
selfish  thing  I  have  ever  done  in  my  life: 
I  called  my  husband  and  told  him  that,  by 
the  time  he  got  to  the  hospital,  I  would 
have  jumped  to  my  destiny. 

"I  heard  my  husband  scream.  I  heard  his 
frantic  'Don't,  please,  please  don't — wait!' 
And,  even  as  the  click  on  the  wire  told 
me  he'd  hung  up,  and  was  on  his  way,  I 
was  sorry,  so  sorry,  and — even  though  I 
knew  it  would  be  useless — I  made  a  des- 


Living  in  His  Sunshine 

perate  effort  to  call  him  back.  I  was  to  be 
still  sorrier  later  on,  when  my  husband 
suffered  so  severe  a  nervous  breakdown 
that  he  had  to  spend  six  months  at  The 
Institute  of  Living — five  and  a  half  months 
longer,  as  it  developed,  than  I  was  obliged 
to  stay  in  a  hospital  myself. 

"It  was  only  for  a  moment,  a  very  brief 
moment,"  Virginia  points  out,  "that  I  con- 
templated suicide.  In  my  opinion,  a  suicide 
is  either  temporarily  insane  or  one  of  the 
physically  bravest — if  morally  weakest— 
of  individuals.  In  that  moment  I  was,  with- 
out a  doubt,  in  shock.  But  I  was  not  in- 
sane, even  temporarily,  nor  physically 
brave,"  Virginia  smiles,  "beset  as  I  am — 
or  was — by  petty  fears.  ...  A  terrible 
claustrophobia,  for  instance,  about  tunnels: 
I'd  rather  not  go  to  New  Jersey,  she 
laughed,  than  go  through  the  Lincoln  Tun- 
nel! And  flying  used  to  undo  me. 

"Only  the  petty  fears  plagued  me,  how- 
ever, never  the  big  ones — for  these  I  took 
to  God  ...  as,  once  the  moment  of  panic 
had  passed,  I  took  the  fear  of  cancer  ...  In 
the  half  hour  it  took  my  husband  to  get  to 
the  hospital,  I  prayed:  'God,  where  are 
You?  How  do  I  talk  to  You?  How  do  You 
talk  to  me?' 

"As  I  prayed  to  God,  I  could  honestly 
hear  Him  answering  me.  As  I  did,  I  real- 
ized suddenly,  humbly,  that  I  had  no  right 
to  pray  for  my  life — realized  the  enormity 
of  it,  the  ego,  when  so  many  wonderful 
and  important  people  have  passed  away. 
.  The  answer  I  got  was  that  no  one  is  most 
important  .  .  .  that  each  and  every  one  of 
us  is  a  link  in  the  chain  of  mankind  .  .  . 
but  that,  if  you're  an  important  link,  may- 
be you'll  be  saved. 

"God's  voice,  I  also  realized  (or  heard?), 
is  the  intellect  in  man  which  enables  him 


to  rationalize  a  crisis.  His  voice  is  in  the 
ability  He  has  given  man  to  save  man  in 
his  hour  of  need.  If  the  need  be  of  the 
body,  God's  voice  is  in  the  skill  of  the 
surgeon,  in  the  miracles  of  blood  trans- 
fusion, X-ray,  radium,  which  are  available 
today.  God's  voice  is  in  the  miracles 
wrought  by  man  to  save  man,  whether  the 
need  be  of  the  body,  or  of  the  spirit,  or  of 
the  two  in  one.  This  is  God's  voice. 

"And  I  heard  it.  And  I  knew,  then  and 
there,  that  I  would  be  saved.  I  took  myself 
out  of  myself  and  put  myself,  completely, 
in  God's  hands.  And  fear  was  gone. 

"A  week  later,  a  radical  hysterectomy 
was  performed.  I  was  on  the  table  eight 
and  a  half  hours,  and  two  hours  in  the 
recovery  room. 

"Now  comes  one  of  the  miracles — I  have 
my  surgeon's  word  for  it — of  my  life;  I  did 
not  have  one  sick  moment  after  the  sur- 
gery. No  after-effects  from  the  ether.  No 
gas  pains.  Not  the  least  discomfort.  I  lay 
in  my  bed  laughing  at  all  the  funny  things 
I'd  ever  seen,  or  heard  about,  or  done  .  .  . 
such  as  going  to  the  beauty  parlor,  nurse 
with  me,  the  day  before  the  operation — 
to  have  my  hair  dyed.  'If  they  lay  me  out,' 
I  laughed,  'no  one's  going  to  see  my  dark 
roots!' 

"I  was  in  the  hospital  two  weeks  to  the 
day — after  which,  for  thirty-five  days,  I 
reported  'in'  for  X-ray  treatments.  Since 
then,"  Virginia  says  happily,  "the  health 
of  a  blooming  Amazon!  Such  apparent 
health  that  when,  not  long  ago,  I  met  a 
doctor  who  had  been  told  I'd  had  cancer, 
he  looked  at  my  face,  looked  me  in  the 
face,  and  said:  'I'd  stake  my  reputation 
that  you  never  had  it!' 

"  'Please  don't,'  I  laughed,  'because  I  did 
have  it,  although  five  years  ago.' 


&*/  Easier,  surer  protection  for  your  most  intimate  marriage  problem 


Tested  by  doctors. .  .proved  in  hospital  clinics 


NORFORmS 

VAGINAL  SUPPOSITORIES 


Tested  by  doctors 
Trusted  by  women 


1.  Antiseptic  (Protective,  germicidal  action) 

Norforms  are  now  safer  and  surer  than  ever!  A  highly  perfected 
new  formula  releases  its  antiseptic  and  germicidal  ingredients 
right  in  the  vaginal  tract.  The  exclusive  new  base  melts  at  body 
temperature,  forming  a  powerful  protective  film  that  permits 
long-lasting  action.  Will  not  harm  delicate  tissues. 

2.  Deodorant  (Protection  from  odor) 

Norforms  were  tested  in  a  hospital  clinic  and  found  to  be  more 
effective  than  anything  it  had  ever  used.  Norforms  are  powerfully 
deodorant — they  eliminate  (rather  than  cover  up)  embarrassing 
odors,  yet  have  no  "medicine"  or  "disinfectant"  odor  themselves. 

3.  Convenient  (So  easy  to  use) 

Norforms  are  small  vaginal  suppositories,  so  easy  and  convenient 
to  use.  Just  insert — no  apparatus,  no  mixing  or  measuring.  They're 
greaseless  and  they  keep  in  any  climate.  Your  druggist  has  them 
in  boxes  of  12  and  24.  Also  available  in  Canada. 


Mail  this  coupon  today 


FREE  informative  Norforms  booklet 

Just  mail  this  coupon  to:  Dept.  RT-68 
Norwich  Pharmacal  Company,  Norwich,  N.  Y. 

Please  send  me  the  new  Norforms  booklet,  in  a 
plain  envelope. 

Name ; 


PRINT) 


A  NORWICH  PRODUCT 


Street. 
City_ 


_Zone_ 


.State. 


69 


"Whereupon  another  doctor  in  the  group 
contributed  this  cheery  bit:  'Seen  it  come 
back,'  he  said,  'after  twenty-five  years.' 

"  'Doctor,'  I  laughed,  'I  want  your  name 
and  address  in  case  I  ever  have  a  nervous 
breakdown!' 

"The  odds  against  my  having  a  nervous 
breakdown,"  our  Miss  Graham  says  gaily, 
"are,  at  a  minimum,  one  hundred  to  one! 
As  to  whether  or  not  it  ever  'comes  back,' 
I  never  give  it  a  thought.  The  biggest  step 
I  took,  on  that  climactic  day  of  June  21, 
1951,  was  between  saying  I  live  for  today 
and  doing  it.  Now  I  do  really  do  it. 

"And  my  advice  to  you,  one  and  all — 
(here  we  go  again!) — is  to  do  likewise. 
Especially  if  you  have,  or  have  had  cancer. 

"One  of  the  reasons  more  progress  is 
not  made  with  cancer  patients  is  that  we 
feel — and  are  made  to  feel — scared  to 
death.  Fear  surrounds  us.  To  this  fear,  the 
will-to-live  is  the  gauntlet  we  must  fling. 
Being  human,  we  have  many  natural 
liabilities  .  .  .  but  we  also  have  many 
natural  assets — and  the  greatest  of  these 
is  the  power  of  the  human  will. 

"It  was  because  of  his  fear  for  me  that 
the  minute  I  got  home  from  the  hospital, 
my  husband  had  his  breakdown.  A  break- 
down the  more  shattering  because  the 
building  in  which  his  business  was  housed 
chose,  at  this  particular  time,  to  burn  to 
the  ground." 

Virginia  explains  that  her  husband's 
business — of  which  he  is  now  the  president 
— is  the  family  business,  Louis  Guttenberg 
&  Son,  a  theatrical  costume  business, 
founded  in  1869,  the  oldest  theatrical 
costume  company  in  the  country. 

"The  insurance,"  she  continues,  "was 
somewhat  less  than  sufficient  to  cover  the 
loss  of  the  building,  let  alone  the  loss  of 
the  stock — consisting  as  it  did,  of  theat- 
rical costumes  so  valuable  and,  many  of 
them,  so  old  as  to  be  historical.  Result: 
We  were  wiped  out.  Flat. 

"Every  crisis  is  like  an  examination 
given  by  a  teacher  to  her  pupils  in  the 
classroom.  Whether  we  pass  creditably — 
or  do  not  pass — depends  on  how  much  our 
past  experience  had  fortified  us.  None  of 
us  attain  stature  or  achieve  inner  strength 
in  an  hour  ...  or  by  ourselves  alone. 

"My  father  was  the  love  affair  of  my 
life,"  she  says  simply,  "my  first  love 
affair — which  began  the  minute  I  laid  eyes 
.  on  him  and  continued  for  the  remainder 
of  the  seventy-four  years  of  his  life. 
As  head  of  Komiss  Stores,  a  group  of 
women's  clothing  stores  in  Chicago — 
where  I  was  born  and  raised — my  dad, 
Mr.  David  S.  Komiss,  was,  solidly  and 
successfully,  a  businessman.  He  was  also 
a  great  lover  of  the  arts  and  a  profound 
student  of  comparative  religions.  But  he 
was,  above  all,  a  friend.    My  friend. 

"Anything  I  have  done  or  been,  worthy 
the  doing  or  being,  is  in  the  image  of  this 
man.  ...  A  deeply  religious  man,  every 
night,  from  time  remembered,  he  would 
tell  me  a  Bible  story.  Holding  fast  to  my 
daddy's  hand,  as  I  listened  to  the  rich  and 
beautiful  prose  he  used,  I  think  I  was 
aware,  even  then,  that  this  was  some- 
thing I  would  have  for  the  rest  of  my  life. 
"I  have  an  extremely  developed  re- 
ligious sense  .  .  .  due,  in  part,  to  the  Bible 
stories  .  .  .  but  also  because,  although 
of  the  Jewish  faith,  my  father's  interest 
in  comparative  religions  was  such  that  I 
was  permitted  to  go  to  an  Episcopal  Sun- 
day school,  a  Catholic  church  and  to  the 
Jewish  temple.  As  a  result,  every  day,  re- 
gardless of  calendar  date,  is  a  religious 
holiday  to  me  .  .  .  and  to  worship  God — 
under  whatever  roof,  whether  of  church 
or  synagogue,  hospital,  my  own  home,  or 
y  of  the  sky — is  what  I  do  with  all  my 
R    heart. 

"Our   father   cared    about   his    children, 
not  just  as  his  children,  but  as  ourselves. 
„„  At  each  stage  of  our  lives  he  would  ask 
70 


my  brother  Justin  and  me  our  reactions 
to  the  phase  we  were  currently  going 
through.  What  did  we  think  of  this,  or 
that?  What  were  our  hopes?  Aims?  Were 
we  happy?  In  any  way  confused?  How, 
in  short,  was  it  with  us? 

"Always — throughout  all  the  vicissi- 
tudes of  growing  up,  the  problems,  the 
many  enterprises,  the  achievements — he 
was  there,  interested  in  us,  encouraging 
us  and  .  .  .  this  is  the  great  thing  .  .  . 
believing  in  us." 

To  understate  the  matter,  the  young 
Virginia's  enterprises  were  many,  her  am- 
bitions lofty,  her  achievements  remark- 
able. At  the  age  of  ten,  she  was  the 
budding  author  of  a  play  about  a  good 
and  bad  fairy,  called  "My  Other  Face," 
which  was  published  and  produced  by  a 
little-theater  group  in  Chicago. 

Throughout  her  school  years,  most  of 
them  spent  at  the  well-known  Frances 
Parker  School,  Virginia's  writing  talent 
flourished.  At  the  age  of  sixteen,  she 
entered  National  Park  Seminary,  a  junior 
college.  At  about  the  same  time,  she 
entered  a  contest  sponsored  by  the  Chi- 
cago Tribune  and  won  a  job,  as  a  cub 
reporter  on  the  paper,  for  her  entry  on 
the  required  subject,  "I  like  Abraham 
Lincoln,  because  .  .  ."  The  scene  of  her 
next  triumph  was  the  University  of  Chi- 
cago— where,  under  an  accelerated  plan, 
she  received  her  Bachelor  of  Arts  degree, 
accompanied  by  a  Phi  Beta  Kappa  key, 
at  the  age  of  eighteen. 


For  Sunny  Days  •  .  . 

RUTH  WARRICK 

"As  The  World  Turns" 

MARY  LINN   BELLER 

"The  Brighter  Day" 

DON   HASTINGS 

"The   Edge  Of  Night" 

PATRICIA  WHEEL 

"The  Doctor's  Wife" 

and   other   daytime   favorites   in 

SEPTEMBER  TV  RADIO  MIRROR 

on  sale  August  7 


A  Brain?  A  Brain.  But  Virginia's  head 
(dark-haired  then)  did  not  completely 
rule  her  heart:  "At  the  age  of  fifteen," 
she  says,  "I  was  in  love  with  a  boy  of 
eighteen,  who  would  always  whistle  at 
blondes.  At  the  time,  the  most  apt  de- 
scription of  me  would  have  been  'whole- 
some, healthy — the  Campfire  Girl  genus.' 
They  loved  me  on  motor-trip  and  picnic 
dates,  because  I  could  always  hold  up  the 
back  of  the  car  or  lug  a  log  for  the 
wienie-roast  fires.  This  was  fine,  but  I 
wanted  the  boy  of  eighteen  to  feel  more 
sexy  about  me.  I  wanted  him  to  whistle 
at  me.  So  I  became  a  blonde.  .  .  .  What 
of  that  boy  of  eighteen?  Just  one  of  those 
things!" 

Virginia's  education  was  completed  at 
Northwestern  University,  where  she  was 
working  for  her  M.A.  in  Journalism.  Soon 
after  this,  however,  she  decided  to  give 
up  writing  as  a  career.  "It  lacked  real- 
ism," she  says.  "My  writing  was  great  as 
a  child.  But  then  I  grew  up,"  she  laughs, 
"and  my  writing  didn't!" 

In  New  York,  after  her  graduation  from 
Northwestern,  for  a  visit  with  an  old 
roommate,  June  Moses,  a  new  career — 
marriage — was  decided  for  Virginia  by 
virtue  of  a  blind  date  with  young  Mr. 
Harry  Guttenberg. 

"June  made  a  date  for  me,  for  dinner 
at  the  Central  Park  Casino,"  Virginia  re- 
calls.    "June's    husband    brought    Harry. 


I'm  sorry  to  use  an  old  cliche,  but  it  was 
genuinely  love  at  first  sight.  In  view  of 
the  fact  that  we  were  married  a  month 
later — what  else?"  In  a  purely  feminine 
aside  she  confides,  "He's  very  handsome. 
Looks  like  actor  Edmund  Lowe! 

"Our  wedding,  a  small  one,  was  at  the 
Pierre  here  in  New  York.  The  honeymoon 
was  a  cruise  to  Central  America.  One 
year  later,  Lynn  was  born — our  lovely 
Lynn,  now  a  young  lady  of  twenty  and 
just  graduated  from  Endicott  Junior  Col- 
lege in  Beverly,  Massachusetts." 

Twenty-one  years  of  marriage,  still  in 
love.  "My  great  luck,"  Virginia  says  so- 
berly, "is  in  having  known  the  love  of 
two  wonderful  men — my  father  and  my 
husband.  My  greatest  luck  is  that  my 
husband  loves  me  exactly  as  my  father 
did — the  same  pride  in  me,  the  same  be- 
lief. Since  I  am  hurt  by  the  most  insig- 
nificant things,  ridiculous  things — someone 
for  whom  I'm  working,  say,  walks  past 
me,  speaks  to  others,  not  to  me,  and  I 
feel  hurt,  all  queer  inside — I  have  to  be 
loved,  have  to  be  praised.  It's  my  oxygen 
tent,  it's  my  life-line.  The  feeling  of  be- 
ing believed  in,  as  well  as  loved  ...  if  you 
have  this  one  feeling,  everything  else  fits 
into  place.  You  fit  into  place." 

Following  her  network  appearance  last 
February  as  the  principal  subject  on 
Ralph  Edwards'  This  Is  Your  Life,  over 
NBC-TV,  Virginia  was  selected  to  replace 
the  then  altar-bound  Margaret  Truman 
as  Mike  Wallace's  co-host  on  NBC  Radio's 
Weekday  program  .  .  .  and,  in  a  subse- 
quent interview,  the  "Cinderella  Story" 
label  was  applied  to  her. 

"Very  nice,"  says  Virginia,  "but  not 
very  accurate,  I'm  afraid.  I've  been  in 
the  broadcasting  business  for  a  good  many 
years,  and  there  have  been  many  steps 
along  the  way.  .  .  ." 

Baby  Lynn  was  a  year  old  when  the 
urge  to  write  again  stirred  in  Virginia 
and  she  took  the  first  of  the  "many  steps." 
She  went  to  work  for  Station  WMCA, 
where  she  was  the  first  to  conceive  and 
execute  what  is  now  common  practice — 
the  dramatized  commercial  featuring  of  a 
personality  (ice-boxes,  for  instance,  fea- 
turing Betty  Furness).  In  addition  to  this 
creative  chore,  she  ghost-wrote  former 
movie-star  Mae  Murray's  Advice  To  The 
Lovelorn  column  and  became  the  voice  of 
"Betty  Baker,"  a  cooking  specialist. 

Explaining  the  renascence  of  her  urge 
to  write,  Virginia  says,  "As  a  child,  whose 
growth  is  retarded,  suddenly  begins  to 
shoot  up,  so  it  is,  I  suppose,  with  a  re- 
tarded talent — mine,  at  any  rate.  As  proof 
that,  once  it  began  to  grow  again,  the 
growth  continues,  I  am  now  doing  a 
book  titled  'Dark  at  the  Roots'— a  title 
with,  as  you  may  suspect,  more  than  one 
implication!" 

After  three  years  of  radio  work,  Vir- 
ginia left  to  join  the  Red  Cross  voluntary 
services,  giving  as  many  as  twelve  hours 
a  day,  five  days  a  week,  for  seven 
years.  ...  In  1947,  she  was  one  of  the 
fourteen  women  who  helped  found  the 
Cerebral  Palsy  Foundation  and  her  chari- 
table work  has  been  legendary  ever 
since.  ...  In  1950,  Virginia  returned  to 
the  air  doing  the  fashion  and  interview 
segments  for  the  five-day-a-week  Zeke 
Manners  ad-lib  show  on  TV. 

In  the  spring  of  '51,  Virginia's  career— 
and  life — came  to  a  standstill.  But  not 
for  long.  Fortified  by  experience,  as  she 
was  ...  in  God's  hands,  and  thus  without 
fear  .  .  .  Virginia  passed  the  crisis  so 
"creditably"  that,  when  her  husband  be- 
came ill,  she  rebuilt  what  fire  had  de- 
stroyed and  took  over  the  management 
of  the  company — so  successfully  that,  by 
the  time  he  returned,  Louis  Guttenberg 
&  Son  was  again  a  going  concern. 

And  so  was  Virginia,  again  on  the  air. 

It  was   while   she   was   doing   her   stint 


on  the  Zeke  Manners  Show — plus  a  con- 
siderable amount  of  speaking  at  benefits — 
that  Virginia  was  "discovered"  by  Mr. 
Ted  Cott,  now  vice-president  of  the 
Du  Mont  Broadcasting  Corporation. 

"He  was  the  motivating  force,"  Virginia 
says,  "in  making  me  decide  to  stay  on 
television — which,  currently,  I  am  on,  as 
the  star  of  WABD's  Food  For  Thought. 
I  love  my  show.  Love  it  dearly  for — oh, 
for  the  good  it  does!  If  you  knew  the 
things  that  happen  ...  a  woman  of  twenty- 
eight  was  about  to  commit  suicide  because 
of  cancer,  then  heard  me  tell  my  own 
experience  on  the  air — and  didn't.  There 
are  many  others,  young  and  old,  men  and 
women,  who  have  been  helped — and  who 
write  me  about  it  ...  so  many  who  wrote 
to  Ralph  Edwards  (3,500  requests  in  all) 
asking  him  to  do  my  'Life.' 

"And  so,  early  last  February,  he  did. 
Brought  his  whole  crew  to  New  York 
for  the  telecast.  And  never  a  suspicion 
did  I  have,  until  the  poignant  moment 
when  I  heard  Ralph  saying,  'Virginia 
Graham,  this  is  your  life!'  The  ground 
rocked  under  my  feet.  How  could  I  be 
egotistical  enough  to  have  supposed,  for 
one  moment,  that  it  would  be  my  life? 

"I've  heard  criticism  of  the  show.  'Bad 
taste.'  'Violation  of  privacy.'  That  sort 
of*  thing.  My  reaction  to  this  is  the  same 
as  Uka  Chase's,  the  day  she  went  into 
'21'  wearing  a  huge  diamond,  and  heard 
two  women  saying — quite  audibly — 'What 
bad  taste!  How  ostentatious!'  Whereupon 
Ilka  walked  over  to  them  and  said 
smoothly,  'I  felt  the  same — until  I  got 
mine.' 

"This  is  the  way  you  feel  about  This  Is 
Your  Life  .  .  .  for — whatever  prejudice 
you  may  have  harbored — when  this  honor 
is  given  you,  it  is  the  most  thrilling,  most 
rewarding  thing.  As  for  Ralph  Edwards, 
I  love  him,  I  adore  him,  I  worship  him — 


and  you  may  quote  me!  He  is  the  most 
gracious  of  men,  and  the  most  under- 
standing .  .  .  the  way  he  deals  with  ama- 
teurs— with  the  friends  and  relatives  of 
the  principal  subject,  that  is — the  time  he 
takes,  before  the  show  goes  on,  to  put  them 
at  their  ease. 

"And  the  doors  This  Is  Your  Life  opens 
for  the  principal  subjects!  Think  of  what 
it  did  for  Lillian  Roth  ...  as  I  think — 
during  the  hours  I  spend  each  day,  five 
days  a  week,  on  Weekday — of  what  it  did 
for  me.  .  .  . 

"Obviously,  with  the  hours-long  Week- 
day radio  show  added  to  my  late-after- 
noon TV  show,  I  am  no  longer  a  'com- 
muter.' After  years  of  living  in  suburban 
Great  Neck,  out  on  Long  Island,  the  Gut- 
tenbergs  are  now  city-dwellers.  And,  if 
anyone  asks  me  how  I  feel  about  the 
smoke,  the  noise,  I  say  I  love  it. 

"Our  apartment  on  upper  Fifth  Avenue 
is  everything  I  ever  dreamed,  and  more — 
thanks  to  the  help  of  my  good  friend, 
decorator  Myra  K.  Oppenheimer.  Our 
living  room  and  dining  room  are  done 
in  turquoise  and  white,  my  favorite  colors 
in  the  world,  and  are  always  filled  with 
red  roses.  Two  big  trees — cherry  trees, 
live  ones — separate  the  two  rooms.  The 
furniture  is  French  provincial,  old,  with 
modern  fabrics,  and  one  wall  of  the  din- 
ing room  is  gold-framed  mirror.  Our 
bedroom  is  all  pinky  beige,  white  and 
gold — rugs,  draperies  and  walls.  The  fur- 
niture is  French  provincial,  too,  except  for 
the  twin  beds,  and  the  wall  over  my  bed 
is  'papered'  with  my  beloved  collection  of 
Sevres  porcelain  miniatures. 

"Lynn  has  a  flair  for  the  Egyptian  and, 
since  we  planned  each  room  for  the  indi- 
vidual, hers  is  done  in  modern  Egyptian. 
The  color  scheme  is  beige,  black,  orange 
and  white.  The  "walls  are  covered  with 
beige  grasscloth,  and'  there's  a  wonderful 


old  Egyptian  sunburst  clock  over  her  bed. 
On  either  side  of  the  couch,  lamps  made 
of  old  Persian  bells  are  mounted  on  black 
marble  bases.  A  built-in  hi-fi,  television 
and  radio  set  take  up  one  wall  of  the 
room,  and  a  soft-drink  snack  bar  takes  up 
another. 

"Our  kitchen  walls  are  simulated  white 
brick,  the  ceiling  is  festooned  with  ram- 
bler roses  which  appear  to  be  growing 
over  the  brick  wall,  and  roses  are  scat- 
tered into  the  white  Vinal  covering  of 
the  floor  as  if  they  have  fallen  there  .  .  . 
all  this  to  remind  us  of  the  country,  in 
case  we  feel  a  nostalgic  pang! 

"Since  my  illness,  I've  devoted  all  of 
life,  apart  from  work  and  home,  to  char- 
ity. Within  the  past  year  alone,  I've 
appeared  at  well  over  two  hundred  bene- 
fits and  have  done  eighty  telethons  to  date. 
My  husband  and  I  travel  all  over  the 
U.S.A.  to  make  these  appearances,  and  I 
often  remain  on  the  air  with  them  for  as 
long  as  twenty  hours.  Because  we  lead 
a  very  full  life,  we  really  treasure  a  night 
at  home!.  When  my  darling  Lynn  is  home 
from  college,  we  three  are  together  all  the 
time  and  an  evening  at  home  is  the  big- 
gest treat  in  the  world. 

"Life  has  never  been  so  full,  so  rich, 
so  deeply  felt,  so  dear,"  says  Virginia, 
her  eyes  glowing,  "as  it  has  since  that  day 
of  June  21,  1951,  when  I  was  reborn.  This 
is  why  I  say  no  one  was  sorrier  than  I, 
when  I  knew  I  had  cancer  .  .  .  and  no  one 
happier  than  I  that  I  did  have  it.  I've 
really  learned  the  importance  of  doing 
everything  today  .  .  .  and  that,  in  serving 
others,   you   serve   God. 

"Oddly  enough,  June  21  is  my  mother's 
birthday.  It  is  also,  I  now  feel,  mine.  .  .  . 
'How  old  are  you,  Miss  Graham?'  an  in- 
quisitive young  person  asked  me,  one  day 
last  winter.  'On  June  21,'  I  told  her,  'I'll 
be  five  years  old.' " 


"V\/bnderfal  iciew-J&zicZ  of  sK&mpoo 

UOUn, 


You'll  say  Cuticura  Shampoo  is  a  girl's  best  friend  when  you 
see  how  gloriously  your  hair  twinkles  .  .  .  how  enchantingly 
smooth  it  is  .  .  .  how  easy  to  manage. 

Better  than  soap  shampoo—  better  than  soaptess 
shampoo —combines  the  best  features   of   both! 

Cuticura  Shampoo  is  that  "cosmetic  ideal"  research  chemists 
have  long  been  striving  for— a  perfectly  balanced  combination 
formula  that  cleanses,  glamorizes  and  conditions  better  than 
either  a  soap  or  a  soapless  shampoo  alone  can  possibly  do. 
It  protects  the  natural  oils— needs  no  special  rinse— lathers  richly 
in  hard  or  soft,  hot  or  cold  water.  .  t     , 


\   <Fjjf> 


Unbreakable  squeeze  bottle 
S-t-r-e-t-C-h-e-S  your  shampoo! 

SPECIAL  OFFER— Full  6  oz.  regular 
85tf  size  for  only  25tf  handling  charge.  This 
offer  not  good  after  Sept.  15,  1956.  Send 
25  tf,  coin  only  to  CUTICURA,  Dept. 
TS-86,  Maiden  48,  Mass. 


Cuticura  shampoo 


71 


All  times  listed  are  Eastern  Daylight 
Time.  These  are  network  programs.  Local 
stations    may    substitute    or    re-schedule. 


nside  Radio 


Monday  through  Friday 


NBC 


MBS 


ABC 


CBS 


Morning 

8:30 
8:45 


9:00 
9:15 
9:30 


10:00 
10:15 

10:30 
10:45 


11:00 

11:15 
11:30 

11:45 


Programs 

Local  Program 


Weekday 


Weekday 


Robert  Hurleigh 
Easy  Does  It 
Mutual  Magazine 


Cecil  Brown 
Footnotes  To 

Medical  History 
Five-Star  News 
10:35  Johnny  Olsen 


News 

1 1 :05  Story  Time 

Queen  For  A  Day 


Breakfast  Club 


My  True  Story 

When  A  Girl  Marries 
Whispering  Streets 


Grand  Central 

Station 
Jack  Paar  Show 
News 
11:35  Your  Happy 

Holiday 


News  Of  America 


Arthur  Godfrey  Time 


Arthur  Godfrey 
(con.) 

This   Is   Kathy 

Godfrey 
Howard  Miller  Show 


Afte 

12:00 

12:15 
12:30 
12:45 

rnoon   Progr 

ams 

Noon  News 

12:10  Ed  Ladd's 
Music  Box 

Valentino 
Frank  Farrell 

Wendy  Warren  & 

The  News 
Backstage  Wife 
Helen  Trent 
Our  Gal  Sunday 

1:00 
1:15 
1:30 
1:45 

News,  Cedric  Foster 
Music 

Luncheon  With 
Lopez 

Paul  Harvey,  News 
Ted  Malone 

Road  Of  Life 
Aunt  Jenny 
Young  Dr.  Malone 
The  Guiding  Light 

2:00 
2:15 
2:30 
2:45 

Weekday 

News,  Sam  Hayes 
2:05  Mutual  Matinee 
Military  Bands 

Martin  Block 

Right  To  Happiness 
Second  Mrs.  Burton 
This  Is  Nora  Drake 
Pepper  Young's 
Family 

3:00 

3:15 
3:30 
3:45 

Weekday 

News 

3:05  Matinee  With 

Bruce  Elliot 
Bandstand,  U.S.A. 

Martin  Block  (con.) 

Linkletter's  House 
Party 

4:00 
4:15 
4:30 

4:45 

Young  Widder  Brown 
Doctor's  Wife 

Woman  In  My  House 

4:05  Matinee  With 
Dick  Willard 

Broadway  Matinee 

Treasury  Band- 
stand 

. 

5:00 

5:15 

5:30 
5:45 

Fred  Waring 
Song  Fest 

World  Of  Nordine 
Norman  Vincent 

Peale 
5:55  Production  Five 

Bob  And  Ray 

Les  Paul  &  Mary  Ford 
5:50  Wismer,  Sports 
5:55  Cecil  Brown 

Musical  Express 

Gloria  Parker 
Vincent  Lopez 

5:55  Wall  Street  Final 

Monday 


Evening    Programs 


6:00 

Local  Program 

Jackson  &  The  News 

6:30 

6:30  News 

6:45 

Three  Star  Extra 

6:35  Bill  Stern 

Lowell  Thomas 

7:00 

Alex  Dreier,  Man 
On  The  Go 

Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 

Ed  Morgan,  News 

News  Analysis, 
LeSeuer 

7:15 

Dinner  Date 

Quincy  Howe 

7:05  Amos  'n'  Andy 

7:30 

News  Of  The  World 

Gabriel  Heatter 

Mike  Malloy, 

Bing  Crosby 

7:45 

One  Man's  Family 

Here's  Hollywood, 
Martin  Starr 

Private  Eye 
7:55  News 

Edward  R.  Murrow 

8:00 

Henry  Taylor 

True  Detective 

American  Music 

8:15 

Boston  Pops 
Concert 

Mysteries 

Hall 
8:25  News 

8:30 

John  Steele, 

Voice  Of  Firestone 

Arthur  Godfrey's 

8:45 

Adventurer 

Talent  Scouts 

9:00 

Telephone  Hour 

News.  Lyle  Van 

News 

News,  Collingwood 

9:05  Bob  And  Ray 

9:05  American  Music 

9:05  My  Son,  Jeep 

9:15 

Behind  The  Iron 
Curtain 

Hall 
9:25   News 

Johnny  Dollar 

9:30 

Contrasts  In  Music 

Reporters'  Roundup 

Best  Bands  In 

Capitol  Cloakroom 

9:45 

The  Land 
9:55   News 
Personality 

9:55  News,  Trout 

10:00 

Pauline  Frederick 
10:05  Chet  Huntley 

Jazz  Roost 

Music  To  Midnight 

The  World  Tonight 
10:05  Orchestra 

10:15 

Dance  Band 

Virgil  Pinkley 

10:30 

Parade  Of  Bands 

Music 

Tuesday 


Evening   Programs 


6:00 
6:30 
6:45 


7:00 

7:15 
7:30 
7:45 


8:00 
8:15 
8:30 


9:00 

9:15 
9:30 


NBC 


Three  Star  Extra 


Alex  Dreier, 
Man  On  The  Go 

News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


Dragnet 
X  Minus  One 


10:00 

10:15 
10:30 


News 

9:05   Biographies 
In  Sound 


Pauline  Frederick 
10:05  Chet  Huntley 
Dance  Band 
Ken  Nordine 


MBS 
Local   Program 


ABC 

News 

6:35  Bill  Stern 


Fulton   Lewis,  Jr. 

Dinner  Date 
Gabriel   Heatter 
Eddie  Fisher 


Treasury  Agent 
Squad  Room 


News,  Lyle  Van 
9:05  Bob  And  Ray 
Dateline  Defense 
Army  Hour 


Jazz  Roost 
10:05  Dance  Music 
Virgil   Pinkley 
Dance  Music 


Ed  Morgan,  News 

Quincy  Howe 
Sherlock  Holmes 
7:55  News 


American  Music  Hall 
8:25  News 
American  Music  Hall 


American  Music  Hall 

9:25  News 
Best  Bands  Of 
The  Land 


Music  To  Midnight 


CBS 
Jackson  &  The  News 

Lowell  Thomas 


News  Analysis, 

LeSeuer 
7:05  Amos  V  Andy 
Bing  Crosby 
Edward  R.  Murrow 


Suspense 


News,  Herman 
9:05  My  Son,  Jeep 
Johnny  Dollar 
Campaign  '56 
9:55  News 


: 


The  World  Tonight 
10:05  Dance  Music 


Wednesday 

Evening    Programs 

6:00 
6:30 
6:45 

Three  Star  Extra 

Local   Program 

News 

6:35  Bill  Stern 

Jackson  &  The  News 
Lowell  Thomas 

7:00 
7:15 
7:30 
7:45 

Alex  Dreier, 

Man  On  The  Go 
News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 

Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
Dinner  Date 
Gabriel    Heatter 
Here's  Hollywood, 
Martin  Starr 

Ed  Morgan  News 
Quincy  Howe 
Masters  Of  Mystery 

7:55  News 

News,  LeSeuer 
7:05  Amos  V  Andy 
Bing  Crosby 
Edward   R.   Murrow 

8:00 
8:15 
8:30 

Truth  Or 

Consequences 
Air  Time  with 

Gisele  MacKenzie 

Gang  Busters' 

Crime  Files  of 
Flamond 

American  Music  Hall 
8:25  News 
American  Music  Hall 

FBI  In  Peace  And 
War 

9:00 

9:15 
9:30 
9:45 

You  Bet  Your  Life 
— Groucho  Marx 

Duet  In  Rhythm 

News,  Lyle  Van 
9:05  Bob  and  Ray 
Airmen  Of  Note 
Family  Theater 

American  Music  Hall 

9:25   News 

Best  Bands 
Of  The  Land 

News,  Collingwood 
9:05  My  Son,  Jeep 
Johnny  Dollar 
Washington  &  The 

World 
9:55  News 

10:00 

10:15 
10:30 

Pauline  Frederick 
10:05  Chet  Huntley 
This  Is  Moscow 

Jazz  Roost 

Virgil  Pinkley 
Sounding   Board 

Music  To  Midnight 

The  World  Tonight 
10:05  Music 

Thursday 

Evening 

Programs 

News 

6:35  Bill  Stern 

6:0 
6:3 
6:4 

0 
0 
5 

Three  Star  Extra 

Loc 

al  Program 

Jackson  &  The  News 
Lowell  Thomas 

7:00 
7:15 

7:30 
7:45 

Alex  Dreier, 
Man  On  The  Go 

News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 

Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
Dinner  Date 

Gabriel  Heatter 
Eddie  Fisher 

Ed  Morgan,  News 
Quincy  Howe 

Mystery  Classic 
7:55  News 

News  Analysis, 

LeSeuer 
7:05  Amos  'n'  Andy 
Bing  Crosby 
Edward  R.  Murrow 

8:00 
8:15 
8:30 

People  Are  Funny 
The  Goon  Show 

Official  Detective 
Crime  Fighter 

American  Music  Hall 
8:25  News 
American  Music  Hall 

21st  Precinct 

9:00 

9:15 
9:30 
9:45 

News 

9:05  American 

Adventure 
Conversation 

News,  Lyle  Van 
9:05  Bob  And  Ray 

State  Of  The  Nation 

American  Music  Hall 

9:25  News 
Best  Bands  Of 
The  Land 

News.  Herman 
9:05  My  Son,  Jeep 
Johnny  Dollar 
The  Leading 
Question 
9:55  News 

10:0 
10:1 
10:3 

0 
5 
0 

Pauline  Frederick 
10:05  Chet  Huntley 
Carling  Conserva- 
tion Club 
Jane    Pickens   Show 

Jazz  Roost 
Virgil   Pinkley 
Music  For  You 

Music  To  Midnight 

The  World  Tonight 
10:05  Dance  Music 

6:00 
6:30 
6:45 


7:00 

7:15 
7:30 
7:45 


8:00 
8:15 
8:30 


9:00 

9:15 

9:30 
9:45 


10:00 
10:15 
10:30 


Friday 


Three  Star  Extra 


Alex  Dreier, 
Man  On  The  Go 

News  Of  The  World 
One    Man's    Family 


National   Radio   Fan 
Club 


NBC   Job   Clinic 
9:05  Radio  Fan  Club 
(con.) 


Cavalcade  Of  Sports 
10:25  Sports  Digest 


Evening    Programs 

Local  Program 

News 

6:35  Bill  Stern 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 

Dinner  Date 
Gabriel  Heatter 
Here's  Hollywood, 
Martin  Starr 


Counter-Spy 
City  Editor 


News,  Lyle  Van 
9:05  Bob  and  Ray 
American  Travel 

Guide 
Disc  Date 


Jazz  Roost 
Virgil  Pinkley 
Music 


Ed  Morgan,  News 

Quincy  Howe 
Police  Blotter 

7:55  News 


American  Music  Hall 
8:25  News 
American  Music  Hall 


American  Music  Hall 

9:25  News 

Best  Bands  Of 
The  Land 


Music  To  Midnight 


Jackson  &  The  News 
Lowell  Thomas 


News  Analysis, 

LeSeuer 
7:05  Amos  'n'  Andy 
Bing  Crosby 
Edward    R.    Murrow 


CBS  Radio  Workshop 


News,  Collingwood 
9:05  My  Son,  Jeep 
Johnny  Dollar 

So  They  Say 
9:55   News 


The  World  Tonight 
10:05  Dance  Music 


nside  Radio 


Saturday 


NBC 


MBS 


ABC 


CBS 


Mm 

8:30 
8:45 

'ning    Progra 

ms 

Local  Program 

8:55  News 

News 

9:00 
9:15 
9:30 
9:45 

Monitor 

No  School  Today 

News  Of  America 
Farm  News 

Garden  Gate 

10:00 
10:15 
10:30 

10:45 

Monitor 

News 

10:35  Good  News 

No  School 

Today  (con.) 
It's  Time 
10:35  Moppets  & 

Melody 
10:55  News 

News,  Jackson 
10:05  Galen  Drake 
Show 

11:00 

11:15 
11:30 

11:45 

Monitor 

News 

11:05  For  Parents 

Only 
Musical     Wheel     Of 

Chance 
11:55  Les  Paul  & 

Mary  Ford 

News 

11:05  Chautaqua 

Student  Symphony 
It's  Time 
11:35  All  League 

Clubhouse 

News,  Calmer 
11:05  Robert  0. 
Lewis  Show 

Afternoon    Programs 


12:00 

National  Farm  & 

News 

News 

News,  Jackson 

Home  Hour 

12:05  Magic  of 

12:05  World  Tourist 

12:05  Romance 

12:15 

Music 

101   Ranch  Boys 

12:30 

Monitor 

American  Farmer 

Gunsmoke 

12:45 

12:55  Tremendous 
Trifles 

1:00 

Monitor 

Fifth   Army   Band 

News 

News,  Jackson 

1:15 

1:25  Men's  Corner 

1:05  Navy  Hour 

1:05  City  Hospital 

1:30 

It's  Time 
1:35  Shake  The 

Man  About 
The  House 

1:45 

Maracas 

Adventures  in 
Science 

2:00 

Monitor 

News 

2:05  Festival- 

News,  Townsend 
2:05  String 

2:15 

Ballet 

Serenade 

2:30 

Lucky  Pierre 

It's  Time 

2:35  Ballet  (con.) 

3:00 

Monitor 

Country  Jamboree 

News 

News,  Bancroft 

3:15 

3:05  Festival- 
Light  Opera 

3:05  Richard  Hayes 
Show 

3:30 

Sport  Parade 

It's  Time 

3:35  Opera  (con.) 

Treasury  Show 

4:00 

Monitor 

Standby  Sports,  with 

News 

News,  Cochran 

4:15 

Harry  Wismer 

4:05  Chautaqua 
Symphony 

4:05  Treasury  Show 
(con.) 

4:30 

Larry  Faith  Orch. 

4:45 

Turf  Events* 

5:00 

Monitor 

Standby  Sports  with 

News 

News,  Cochran 

5:15 

Harry  Wismer 
(con.) 

5:05  Pop  Concert 

5:05  New  Orleans 
Jazz  Band   Ball 

5:30 

News 

Make  Way  for  Youth 

5:45 

5:50  Cecil  Brown 
5:55  Les  Paul  & 
Mary  Ford 

5:35  Dinner  At  The 
Green  Room 

*8, 

'4  Brooklyn  Handicap 

Evening    Prograi 

ms 

6:00 

Monitor 

John  T.  Flynn 

News 

6:05  Pan-American 

News,  Cioffi 
6:05  Music  At  The 

6:15 

The  Mariners' 
Album 

Union 
6:25  It's  Time 

Chase 

6:30 

Report  From 
Washington 

Sports  Kaleidoscope 

Young  Ideas 

6:45 

Dinner  Date 

Bob  Edge,  Sports 
Afield 

7:00 

Monitor 

Pop  The  Ouestion 

News 

News,  LeSeuer 

7:15 

7:05  At  Ease 
7:25  It's  Time 

7:05  Juke  Box  Jury 

7:30 

Inspiration,  Please 

8:00 

Monitor 

True  or  False 

News 

News,  Jackson 

8:15 

8:05  Best  Bands 

8:05  Country  Style 

8:30 

Musical  Caravan 

News 

8:35  Best  Bands 

8:45 
9:00 

8:55  Sports 

Monitor 

1  Ask  You 

News 

Rock  V  Roll 

9:15 

9:05  Best  Bands 

Dance  Party 

9:30 

Grand  Ole  Opry 

Lombardoland,  U.S.A. 

National  Juke  Box 

Basin  Street  Jazz 

10:00 

Monitor 

Renfro  Valley 
Barn  Dance 

News 

10:05  Hotel  Edison 

News 

10:15 

Orch. 

10:30 

News 

10:35  Lawrence  Welk 

Orchestra 

Sunday 


NBC 


Morning    Programs 


MBS 


8:30 
8:45 


9:00 
9:15 

9:30 
9:45 


10:00 
10:15 

10:30 
10:45 


11:00 
11:15 
11:30 
11:45 


Monitor 


World  News  Roundup 
Monitor 


Art  Of  Living 


National   Radio 
Pulpit 

Monitor 


Monitor 


11:35  New  World 


Oral  Roberts 


Wings  Of  Healing 
Back  To  God 


Radio  Bible  Class 
Voice  Of  Prophecy 


Frank  And  Ernest 

Christian  Science 

Monitor 
Northwestern 

Reviewing  Stand 


ABC 


Light  &  Life  Hour 


News 

9:05GreatComposers 

It's  Time 

Voice  of  Prophecy 


News 

10:05  Message  Of 

Israel 
News 
10:35  College  Choir 


It's  Time 

11:05   Marines   On 
Review 

News 

11:35  Christian  In 
Action 


CBS 


Renfro  Valley 
8:55  Galen  Drake 


World  News  Roundup 
The  Music  Room 

Church   Of   The  Air 


News,  Trout 
10:05  E.  Power 

Biggs 
Invitation  To 

Learning 


News 

11:05  Washington 
Week 

Salt  Lake  Tabernacle 
Choir 


Aiit 

12:00 

12:15 
12:30 

12:45 

■moon    Progi 

Monitor 

The  Eternal  Light 

■JIH1S 

As  I  See  It 

News,  Bill  Cunning- 
ham 
Christian  Science 

It's  Time 
12:35  Herald  Of 
Truth 

News,  Robert  Trout 
12:05  The  Fabulous 

Dorseys 
World  Affairs 
Guy  Lombardo  Time 

1:00 

1:15 
1:30 
1:45 

Monitor 
Lutheran  Hour 

Les  Paul  &  Mary  Ford 
1:05  News 
Merry  Mailman 
Lutheran  Hour 

Dr.  Wm.  Ward  Ayer 

News 

1:35   Pilgrimage 

Woolworth    Hour- 
Percy  Faith, 
Donald  Woods 

2:00 
2:15 
2:30 

Monitor 

The  Catholic  Hour 

Music   From   Britain 

Dr.  Oral  Roberts 
Wings  Of  Healing 

News 

2:05  World  Music 
Festivals 

3:00 
3:15, 
3:30 
3:45 

Monitor 

Bandstand,  U.S.A. 

Dr.  James  McGinlay 
3:25  It's  Time 
Billy  Graham 

Music  Festival  (con.) 

Music  On  A  Sunday 
Afternoon 

4:00 
4:15 
4:30 
4:45 

Monitor 

Bandstand,  U.S.A. 

Old-Fashioned 
Revival  Hour 

News 

4:05   Music  On  A 

Sunday  Afternoon 

(con.) 

5:00 

5:15 

5:30 
5:45 

Monitor 

5:05  World  Theater 

Bandstand,  U.S.A. 

5:55   Wismer, 
Baseball  Scores 

5:25  Van  Voorhis, 

News 
High  Moment 

News 

5:05  Indictment 

Fort  Laramie 

Evening    Programs 


6:00 

Monitor 

Walter  Winchell 

Monday  Morning 
Headlines 

News 

6:05  News  Series 

6:15 

Tomorrow's 
Headlines 

Paul  Harvey,  News 

6:30 

News 

On  The  Line,  Bob 

It's  Time 

Gunsmoke 

6:35  Meet  The  Press 

Considine 

6:35  Evening  Comes 

• 

6:45 

Les  Paul  &  Mary  Ford 
6:50  Sports,  Wismer 

7:00 

Monitor 

By  The  People 

News 

7:05  Showtime 
Revue 

News  Analysis 
7:05  Bergen- 
McCarthy  Show 

7:15 

George  E.  Sokolsky 

7:30 

Pan-American 

It's  Time 

7:45 

- 

Panorama 

Travel  Talk 

8:00 

Monitor 

Hawaii  Calls 

Country  Music 

News 

8:05  Our  Miss 

8:15 

Brooks 

8:30 

Two  For  The  Money 

9:00 

Monitor 

Wm.  Hillman,  News 

Overseas  Assignment 

News 

9:05   Music   Hall, 

9:15 

Dick  Joseph, 
World  Traveler 

Lifetime  Living 

Mitch  Miller 

9:30 

Manion  Forum 

It's  Time 

9:45 

Keep  Healthy 

9:35  Sammy  Kaye 
9:55   News 

9:55  Jim  McKay 

10:00 

Billy  Graham 

Wings  Of  Healing 

News,  E.  D.  Canham 

News 

10:15 

Richard  Hayes 
Sings 

10:05  Face  The  Na- 
tion 

10:30 

American  Forum 

Bonsoir  Paris 

Revival  Time 

Church  Of  The  Air 

See   Next  Page- 


73 


TV  Program  highlights 


NETWORKS 

0  CBS  flagship  station 
O  NBC  flagship  station 
©    ABC  flagship  station 


NEW  YORK  CITY  AND  SUBURBS  AND  NEW  HAVEN,  CHANNEL  8,  JULY  5— AUGUST  6 


Baseball  on  TV 


D — Doubleheader 


R — Road  game 


DATE 
JULY 

5,  Thu. 

6,  Fri. 

7,  Sat. 

8,  Sun. 

12,  Thu. 

13,  Fri. 

14,  Sat. 

15,  Sun. 

16,  Mon. 

17,  Tue. 

18,  Wed. 

19,  Thu. 

20,  Fri. 

21,  Sat. 


22,  Sun. 

24,  Tue. 

25,  Wed. 


8:00 
7:55 
8:00 
2:00 
2:25 
7:55 
8:00 
1:30 
2:00 
2:00 
9:55 
8:15 
2:00 
2:00 
2:00 
8:15 
2:00 
8:55 
2:00 
8:55 
8:15 
1:55 
2:00 
2:55 
2:00 
7:55 
8:00 
1:30 


CH. 
11 

9 

11 

8,11 

2 

9 

11 

9 

8,11 

11 

9 

11 

2,8,11 

8,11 

11 

11 

11 

9 

11 

9 

11 

2 

8,11 

9 

8,11 

9 

11 

11 


GAME 


Dodgers  vs.  Giants 
Dodgers  vs.  Phila. — R 
Pgh.  vs.  Giants 
Pgh.  vs.  Giants 
Det.  vs.  Chi. 
Dodgers  vs.  Phila. — R 
Yanks  vs.  Wash. — R 
Dodgers  vs.  Phila. — R 
Pgh.  vs.  Giants — D 
Cleve.  vs.  Yanks 
Dodgers  vs.  Mil. — R 
Cleve.  vs.  Yanks 
Chi.  vs.  Yanks 
Cleve  vs.  Yanks — D 
Chi.  vs.  Yanks 
Det.  vs.  Yanks 
Det.  vs.  Yanks 
Dodgers  vs.  Cine. — R 
Det.  vs.  Yanks 
Dodgers  vs.  Cine. — R 
K.C.  vs.  Yanks 
Det.  vs.  Boston 
K.C.  vs.  Yanks 
Dodgers  vs.  St.  L. — R 
K.C.  vs.  Yanks— D 
Cine.  vs.  Dodgers 
Mil.  vs.  Giants 
Mil.  vs.  Giants 


DATE 

25,  Wed. 

26,  Thu. 

27,  Fri. 

28,  Sat. 

29,  Sun. 


TIME 

7:55 
9:00 
1:25 
1:30 
7:55 
8:00 
1:55 
2:00 
10:00 
1:55 
2:00 


CH. 


GAME 


9  Cine.  vs.   Dodgers 
11  Yanks  vs.   Chi.— R 

9  Cine.  vs.   Dodgers 
11  Mil.  vs.   Giants 

9  Chi.  vs.  Dodgers 
11  St.  L.  vs.  Giants 
8,  9  Chi.  vs.  Dodgers 
11  St.  L.  vs.  Giants 
11  Yanks  vs.  K.C.—/? 
8,  9  Chi.  vs.  Dodgers— D 
11  St.  L.  vs.  Giants 


30,  Mon. 

7:55 

9  Mil.  vs.  Dodgers 

31,  Tue. 

7:55 

9  Mil.  vs.  Dodgers 

8:00 

11  Cine.  vs.  Giants 

1,  Wed. 

1:30 

11  Cine.  vs.  Giants 

7:55 

9  Mil.  vs.  Dodgers 

8:00 

11  Yanks  vs.   Cleve.— 

-R 

2,  Thu. 

1:25 

9  Mil.    vs.    Dodgers 

1:30 

11  Cine.  vs.   Giants 

3,  Fri. 

7:55 

9  St.  L.  vs.  Dodgers 

8:00 

11  Chi.   vs.   Giants 

4,  Sat. 

1:55 

8,  9  St.  L.  vs.  Dodgers 

2:00 

2  Boston  vs.  Cleve. 

2:00 

11  Chi.  vs.   Giants 

5,  Sun. 

1:55 

8,  9  St.  L.  vs.  Dodgers- 

-D 

2:00 

11  Chi.  vs.  Giants — D 

6,  Mon. 

1:30 

11  Phila.   vs.   Giants 

8:00 

11  Yanks  vs.  Boston— 

-R 

74 


Monday  through  Friday 


7:00  ©  Today— Faye  Emerson  subs  for  Dave 
8:00  0  Captain   Kangaroo— Kids   jump 
9:00  0  (0  at  11)    My   Little   Margie-LafFs 
O  Herb  Sheldon— &  Jo  McCarthy 
10:00  0  Garry    Moore    Show— Frolicsome 

O  Ding  Dong  School— TV  nursery 
10:30  0  Godfrey  Time— Mon.  thru  Thurs. 

O  Claire   Mann — For   women   only 
11:00  ©  Home— For    the    housewife 
12:00  0  Valiant  Lady— Flora   Campbell  stars 

©  It  Could  Be  You-Bill  Leyden 
12:15  0  00  Love  Of  Life— Stars  Jean  McBride 
12:30  0  00  Search  For  Tomorrow— Serial 
12:45  0  00  Guiding  Light— Perennial  favorite 
1:00  0  Charles   Colling  wood— News 
1:10  0  Stand  Up  And  Be  Counted— Russell 

©  One  Is  For  Sheldon— Herb's  hot 
1:30  0  As  The  World  Turns-Serial 
2:00  0  Johnny  Carson  Show— Variety 

©  Richard     Willis— Female     renovating 
2:30  0  00  Art  Linkletter's  House  Party 

©  Tennessee    Ernie— No.    1    pea-picker 
3:00  0  Big   Payoff— Randy  Merriman   quiz 
©  Matinee   Theater— Hour  teleplays 
0  00  Film   Festival— Excellent   movies 
O  Ted   Steele— Happy-go-lucky  time 
3:30  0  Bob  Crosby  Show— Let's  swing,  gates 
4:00  0  Brighter   Day— Daily  serial 

©  Date   With    Life— Dramatic   stories 
4:15  0  Secret   Storm— Peter    Hobbs    stars 

©  Queen  For  A  Day— Jack  Bailey 
4:30  0  Edge  Of  Night— John   Larkin  stars 
5:00  ©  I  Married  Joan— Joan  Davis  comedy 
©  Virginia  Graham— Chit-chat  for  gals 
7:15  0  John   Daly — Award-winning   newsman 
7:30  ©  GO  Songs— Gordon    MacRae,    M.; 

Snooky  Lanson,  T.,  Th.,  Jaye  P.  Morgan,  W.,F. 
0  Million  Dollar  Movie— July  2-8, 
"Lady  Luck,"  Robert  Young;  July  9-15, 
"Marine  Raider,"  Pat  O'Brien,  Robert 
Ryan;  July  16-22,  "Three  Cases  of  Murder," 
Orson  Welles;  July  23-29,  "Behind  the 
Rising  Sun,"  Robert  Ryan;  July  30-Aug.  5, 
"Johnny  Angel,"  George  Raft;  Aug.  6-12, 
"Show   Business,"   Eddie  Cantor. 


7:45  ©  John     Cameron     Swayze— News 
10:00  0  Million  Dollar  Movie— See  7:30  p.m. 
11:15  0  The   Late   Show— Feature  films 
11:30  ©  Tonight— Steve     Allen,     All-America n 


Monday  P.M. 


7:30  0  Bold  Journey— True-Life  travels 
(D  Suzie— Private  Secretary  re-runs 
8:00  0  Burns    &    Allen— Reruns   for   summer 
©  Ernie  Kovacs  Show— Except  July  23, 
Producers'  Showcase,   "Rosalinda" 

0  Public  Defender— Reed  Hadley  stars 
8:30  0  Talent  Scouts— Bob  Crosby  emcees 

0  00  Voice    Of    Firestone— Concerts 
9:00  0  [J]  Charlie  Farrell   Show— Comedy 
©  Medic— Reruns 

0  Film  Fair— July  9,  "The  Adventurer," 
Jack    Hawkins;   July   16,   "The   Amazing   Mr. 
Beecham,"    Cecil    Parks;    July    23,    "Eureka 
Stockade,"   Chips   Rafferty;   July   30,   "I    Be- 
lieve in  You,"  Celia  Johnson. 
9:30  0  The  Vic  Damone  Show— Songs 
©  Robert   Montgomery    Presents 
10:00  0  00  Westinghouse  Summer  Theater 
10:30  ©  Doug  Fairbanks  Presents— Stories 


Tuesday 


7:00  ©  Gildersleeve— Willard    Waterman 
7:30  0  Name   That  Tune— Mu$ical   Quiz 

0  Waterfront— Pres    Foster    as    Mike 
8:00  0  Phil    Silvers    Show— Reruns 

©  Dear  Phoebe— Peter  Lawford  comedy 
8:30  ©  Paul    Whiteman    Show— Liltin' 
9:00  0  Joe  &  Mabel— Comedy 

©  Sneak  Preview— Filmed  dramas 
9:30  0  Undercurrent— Melodramas 

©  Kaiser  Theater— Circle  Theater 
10:00  0  QO  $64,000   Question-Hal   March 

0  The  Big  Picture— Army  documentary 
10:30  0  Do  You  Trust  Your  Wife?— Bergen 

©  Big   Town— Mark   Stevens   stars 

0  Women      Want      To      Know— Faye 


Wednesday 


7:30  0  Cartoon    Theater— Terrytoons 


0  GO  Disneyland— Fun    &   fantasy 
8:00  0  Godfrey  &  Friends— Last  7/25 
(D  Man  Behind  The  Badge— Police 
8:30  0  00  The  Amazing  Dunninger— Magic 
9:00  ©  Kraft  Theater-Fine  plays 

0  GO  Screen   Directors'   Playhouse 
OJj  The  Man  Called  X— Barry  Sullivan 
9:30  0  I've    Got    A   Secret-Bob    Cummings 

O  00  Eddy  Arnold  Show 
10:00  0  U.    S.    Steel    Hour-Alternates    with 
20th  Century-Fox  Hour 

©  This  Is  Your  Life— Reruns 
©  GO  Boxing— Headline   events 
10:30  ©  Ina  Ray  Hutton  Show 


Thursday 


8:00  ©  You  Bet  Your  Life-Groucho  rer 
©  Liberace — Valentino   of   piano 
O  Hour    Glass— English    films 

8:30  0  Climax — Suspense    dramas 
©  Dragnet — Summer    reruns 

9:00  ©  Professional     Wrestling— Dramatic 

9:30  0  Four  Star  Playhouse— Drama 

©  (GO  at  10)   Ford   Theater— Reruns 
0  Greatest  Sport  Shows 
10:00  0  Arthur    Murray    Party— Katie    stars 

©  Lux  Video  Theater— Dramas 
10:30  O  Racket  Squad— Reed  Hadley  stars 


Friday 


7:30  ©  I  Spy— Raymond   Massey  thriller 
8:00  0  Mama— Peggy  Wood  charms 

©  Sherlock    Holmes— Master    detective 

0  GO  Combat  Sergeant— Melodrama 
8:30  0  Our  Miss  Brooks— Summer  reruns 
9:00  ©  Best  In  Mystery— Whodunits 

0  Dollar  A  Second— Quiz  for  cash 
9:30  ©  Star  Stage— Teleplay  reruns 
10:00  0  The    Line-Up— City    police;    reruns 

©  Boxing— With  Jimmy,  the  Powerhouse 


Saturday 


4:30  0  Turf  Events— Aug.  4,  Brooklyn 

$50,000    Handicap   from   Jamaica 
6:00  0  Telephone   Time— John    Nesbitt 
7:30  0  Beat   The    Clock— Bud    Collyer 

©  The  Big  Surprise— Mike  Wallace 
8:00  0  RH  The  Honeymooners— Gleason 

©  Hour  With  Julius  La  Rosa 
8:30  0  QO  Stage  Show— Dorseys  &  guests 
9:00  0  Two  For  The  Money— Sam  Levenson) 

©  People  Are   Funny— Linkletter 

0  00  Lawrence   Welk— Family   favorite 
9:30  0  Russ  Morgan  Show— Musical  show 
10:00  0  Gunsmoke— Westerns;  reruns 

0  00  Masquerade  Party— Lotsa  fun 
10:30  0  20   Steps   To   A   Million— Quiz 

©  Adventure  Theater 


Sunday 


7:30  0  00  Private  Secretary— Jack  Benny 
0  Frontier— Reruns 

O  Film    Festival— July    8,    "Woman    in 
Question,"    Dick    Bogart;    July    15,    "White 
Corridors,"  Googie  Withers;  July  22,  "Odd 
Man  Out,"  James  Mason;  July  29,  "Adam  & 
Evaline,"  Stewart  Granger. 
8:00  0  00  Ed  Sullivan  Show— Extravaganza 
©  Steve   Allen    Show— Variety,   except 
July  15,  Summer  Spectacular 
9:00  0  G-E    Theater— Reruns 

©  TV  Playhouse— Live  hour  teleplays 
0  00  Original  Amateur  Hour 
10:00  0  $64,000    Challenge— Sonny    Fox 
©  Loretta    Young    Show — Reruns 
0  Focus— Dramatic   documentaries 
10:30  0  00  What's  My  Line?— Job  game 


Imagine  Me — Playing 
Cupid! 

(Continued  from  page  39) 
"Now  see  here,  Ethel.  You  leave  that 
'Mother'  Burton  character  of  yours  in  the 
studio.  When  Dwight  is  in  front  of  the 
microphone,  being  Stan  Burton,  you  can 
boss  him  around  all  you  please,  but  I 
won't  have  you  meddling  with  his  personal 
life—"  ,        • 

"I'm  not  meddling.  I  just  thought  they 
might  enjoy  each  other." 

He  didn't  even  hear  me,  but  continued, 
"Nor  will  I  permit  you  to  interfere  with 
Avery.  When  she  gets  around  to  it,  she'll 
choose  her  own  companions.  Here  you're 
not  the  managing  Mrs.  Burton  of  Burton 
Towers.  In  Westport,  Connecticut,  you  are 
Mrs.  John  Almy— and  don't  you  forget  it." 

For  my  mild-mannered  husband,  that 
was  quite  a  speech.  In  all  honesty,  I  had 
to  admit  he  had  a  point.  We're  a  congenial 
little  group  here  in  our  lane,  doing  just 
enough  visiting  back  and  forth  to  feel 
neighborly,  yet  never  invading  anyone's 
privacy.  Jack,  since  he  reached  sixty-five 
and  retired  from  his  forty-five-year-long 
job  with  Metropolitan  Life,  has,  to  a 
pleasant  degree,  become  the  patriarch  of 
our  little  community.  It  was  understand- 
able that  he  should  object  to  what  he 
called  "meddling." 

So  I  murmured  the  usual  "Yes,  dear." 
Yet  I  couldn't  help  reflecting  that  men  just 
.  don't  understand  the  difference  between 
interfering  in  some  one's  personal  life 
and  wanting  to  further  the  happiness  of 
people  you  love. 

And  I  do  love  Dwight.  When  you  work 
together  for  nine  years,  as  we  have  done 
on  The  Second  Mrs.  Burton,  the  roles  you 
play  develop  into  a  sort  of  second  life.  At 
CBS,  I  often  call  Dwight  "Stan"  and  he 
calls  me  "Mother."  I'm  pleased  when  he 
confides  in  me,  for  my  habit  of  "mother- 
ing" is  strong.  Jack,  a  widower  when  I 
married  him,  has  two  sons.  I  was  a  widow 
with  three  daughters.  All  are  married 
now,  and  we  have  nine  grandchildren. 
We're  happy  to  "adopt"  Dwight  into  our 
nice,  big  family. 

Let  me  make  clear,  however,  one  marked 
difference  between  my  real-life  association 
with  Dwight  and  the  radio  relationship 
between  the  autocratic  Mother  Burton  and 
her  somewhat  clinging  son,  Stan:  On 
radio,  Mother  Burton  can't  bear  to  cut 
the  silver  cord.  She  has  been  jealous  of 
every  girl  in  Stan's  life.  She  thinks  his 
wife  is  her  bitter  rival.  She  tightens  up 
the  purse  strings  to  control  him,  and  she's 
forever  trying  to  make  him  move  back  to 
Burton  Towers  so  that  she  can  keep  him 
right  under  her  thumb. 

In  our  personal  lives,  quite  the  op- 
posite is  true.  I  have  always  admired  the 
brilliant  success  Dwight  has  made  of  his 

I  career  without  much  aid  from  anybody. 
He  began  writing  while  he  was  still  in 
high  school  at  Scranton,  Pennsylvania,  and 
when  he  went  to  Ohio  Wesleyan  in  Dela- 
ware, Ohio,  he  not  only  sold  stories  to 
national  publications,  he  also  took  part 
in  dramatics,  played  in  the  band  and 
traveled  eighteen  miles  each  night  to 
work  an  eight-hour  shift  as  an  announcer 
at  Station  WAIU  in  Columbus. 

He  was  graduated  in  that  dismal  year, 
1931,  landed  in  New  York  in  1932  and, 
while  waiting  for  rehearsals  to  start  for  a 
Broadway  play,  was  signed  to  do  imper- 
sonations on  the  old  March  Oj  Time  pro- 
gram. Thus  launched,  he  has  been  on  many 
of  the  major  radio  programs.  He  also  is  a 
newsreel  commentator  and  a  television 
announcer.  On  CBS-TV,  for  instance,  he 
has  worked  on  both  Guy  Lombardo's 
Diamond   Jubilee    and    Walter    Cronkite's 


OPPORTUNITIES 

for  EVERYBODY 

Publisher'*  Classified  Department  (Trademark) 


For  tltmified  advertising  ratet,  write  to  William  R  Stewart,  9  South  Clinton  Street,  Chicago  6  (Worn. -Aug.}  6 


OF  INTEREST  TO  WOMEN 


$350  FOR  YOUR  child's  photo,  all  ages,  if  used  for  advertising. 
May  also  qualify  for  Free  Camera.  Send  photo  for  approval. 
Print  child's-mother's,  name-address  on  back.  Returned  two 

weeks.  Advertisers,  6000-YV  Sunset,  Los  Angeles  28. 

COMPLETE  YOUR  HIGH  School  at  home  in  spare  time 
with  59-year-old  school.  Texts  furnished.  No  classes.  Diploma. 
Information   booklet  free.  American  School,   Dept.  XC74, 

Drexel  at  58th,  Chicago  37,  Illinois. 

SUCCESS — AT  LAST  true  spare  time  self  employment.  Our 
members  choose  from  over  50  opportunities — guaranteed. 
Write  for  details:  Maxwell,  Dept.  T2-7,  Wooster,  Ohio. 
MAKE  SPARE  TIME  money  preparing  and  mailing  sales 
literature.  Adams  Surveys,  3513C  Sunset  Blvd.,  Los  Angeles, 

26,  California. 

EARN  $40  WEEKLY  Sewing  Babywearl  No  house  selling! 
Send  stamped  addressed  envelope.  Babywear,  Warsaw  1,  Ind. 
NATIONAL  FIRM  NEEDS  Homeworkersl  No  Selling  I 
Guaranteed  Pay.  Genmerco,  Box  142-W,  Dorchester 24,  Mass. 
MAKE  MONEY  CLIPPING  Newspaper  Items  For  Publish- 
ersl  Write,  Newscraft,  PW-983-E.  Main,  Columbus  5,  Ohio. 
SEW  OUR  READY  cut  aprons  at  home,  spare  time.  Easy, 

Profitable.  Hanky  Aprons,  Ft.  Smith  3,  Ark. 

$30.00  WEEKLY  MAKING  Roses.  Look,  Smell  real.  Studio 

Company,  Greenville  12,  Pa. 

PROFITABLE  HOME  BUSINESS.  Make  Fast-Selling  che- 
nile  monkey  trees.  Literature  free.  Velva,  Bohemia  32,  N.  Y. 

MONEY  MAKING  OPPORTUNITIES 

WE  NEED  REPRESENTATIVES  .  .  .  "$327.00  first  month," 
reports  W.  F.  G.  Waco,  Texas.  Earn  $200.00  to  $400.00 

monthly . . .  proven  plan  for  your  own  business full  or  part 

time.  No  investment  ...  no  inventory  .  .  .  free  information 
without  obligation.  Write:   Dept.  S102,  Opportunities  Un- 

limited,  482  Main  Street,  Maiden,  Massachusetts. 

$5,199.90  WAS  PAID  to  John  Betts  in  few  weeks.  Grow 
Mushrooms.  Cellar,  shed.  Spare,  full  time,  year  round.  We 
pay  $3.50  lb.  Free  Book,  Mushrooms,  Dept.  164,  2954  Admiral 

Way,  Seattle,  Wash. 

STUFFING— MAILING  ENVELOPES.  Our  instructions  tell 
how.  Dept.  G-8.  Education  Publishers,  4043  St.  Clair,  Cleve- 

land  3,  Ohio. 

GUARANTEED  HOMEWORKI  IMMEDIATE  Commis- 
sionsl   Everything   Furnished  I   Hirsch,   1301-12  Hoe  Ave., 

New  York  City  59. 

$40.00  WEEKLY  POSSI BLE  mailing  circulars  for  advertisers. 
Complete     instructions — 25c.     Siwaslian,    431 7-F    Gleane, 

Elmhurst  73,  N.Y. 

$35  WEEKLY  PREPARING  envelopes.  Instructions  $1.Re- 

fundable.  Adservice,  Spring  Valley  151,  New  York. 

EXTRA  MONEY  PREPARING  Mailing  Postcards,  Gul,  2419 

Thomas,  Chicago  22,  Illinois. 

MAKE  YOUR  TYPEWRITER  Earn   Money.  Send  $1.00. 

Hughes,  7004  Diversey,  Chicago  35. 

LADIES:  PREPARE  MAIL  postcards,  easy  profitable  Alfred 

Hasemann,  Beecher,  Illinois. 

OPERATE  RESTAURANT  OR  diner.  Free  booklet  reveals 

plan.  Write  Restaurant  Arts,  MO-58,  Fremont,  Ohio. 

MONEY  FOR  YOURSELF.  Earn  easily  $50-$250  Spare  Time. 
No  experience  needed.  Sell  exclusive  Elmira  Xmas  cards,  gift 
wrappings.  Samples  on  approval.  Special  Bonus:  Free  box 
cards,  50%  profit  offer,  selling  hints.  Hurryl  Elmira  Greeting 

Co.,  101  Clinton,  Elmira,  N.Y. 

_        __  SALESMEN  WANTED 

CHRISTMAS  CARDS!  MAKE  Big  Money!  Sell  Name  Im- 
printed genuine  Parchment  "Personals"  only  3c  each.  600 
other  fast  selling  gifts,  greetings  Samples  on  approval. 
Arrow,  513FF  4th  Ave.  So.,  Minneapolis,  Minn. 

PERSONAL 

BORROWING  BY  MAIL.  Loans  $100  to  $600  to  employed 
men  and  women.  Easy,  quick.  Completely  confidential.  No 
endorsers.*  Repay  in  convenient  monthly  payments.  Details 
free  in  plain  envelope.  Give  occupation.  State  Finance  Co., 
323  Securities  Bldg.,  Dept.  A-69,  Omaha  2,  Nebraska. 


FEMALE  HELP  WANTED 


WOMEN— $35-$50  Daily,  Showing  apparel  for  Children, 
Adults.  Party  Plan  sensation!  Experience  unnecessary.  Isabel 
Sharrow  made  $258 — 11  days  sparetime!  Free  Outfit.  Beeline 

Fashions,  Bensenville  598,  Illinois. 

BEAUTY  DEMONSTRATORS— TO  $5  hour  demonstrating 
Famous  Hollywood  Cosmetics,  your  neighborhood.  For  free 
samples,  details,  write  Studio  Girl,  Glendale,  Calif.,  Dept. 

1668C. 

$2.00  HOURLY  POSSIBLE  doing  light  assembly  work  at 
home.   Experience  unnecessary.  Crown   Industries,  8507-B 

West  Third,  Los  Angeles  48,  Calif. 

HOME  SEWERS  WANTEDI  Earn  extra  cash  making  readi- 
cut  ties,  experience  unnecessary.  No  selling.  We  instruct. 

Jud-San,  518  E.  105,  Dept.  G-1,  Cleveland  8,  Ohio. 

HOME  WORKERS.  MAKE  hand-made  moccasins.  Good  pay. 
Experience  unnecessary.  California  Handicrafts,  Los  Angeles 

46,  California. 

HOME  SEWING.  READY-Cut  Rap-Around.  Profitable.  Easy. 
Free  instructions.  Hollywood  Manufacturing,  Dept.  C,  Holly- 

wood  46,  California. 

IF  YOU  WANT  to  earn  money  fast,  I'll  send  you  Free  Sample 
Stocking  of  newest  Stretch  DuPont  Nylons  to  sell  at  only  $1 

a  pair.  American  Mills,  Dept.  500,  Indianapolis  7,  Ind. 

FASCINATING  WORK  AT  Homel  No  selling!  We  pay  you  ! 
Truart,  Box  710,  Pasadena,  Calif. 

EDUCATIONAL  OPPORTUNITIES 

BE  A  HOTEL  Hostess.  Enjoy  your  work!  Fascinating  positions 
in  hotels,  motels,  clubs  as  Hostess,  Executive  Housekeeper, 
Manager,  Social  or  Food  Director.  Lewis  Training  quickly 
qualifies  you  at  home  or  through  resident  classes  in  Washing- 
ton. Lewis  National  Placement  Service  Free.  Write  for  Free 
Book.  40th  Year.  Course  Approved  for  All  Veteran  Training. 
Lewis  Hotel  Training  School,  Sta.  BM-2901,  Washington 

7,  D.C. 

HIGH  SCHOOL  DIPLOMA  at  home.  Licensed  teachers. 
Approved  materials.  Southern  States  Academy,  Box  144W 
Station  E,  Atlanta,  Georgia. 

FOREIGN  &  U.S.A.  JOB  LISTINGS 

HIGH  PAYING  JOBS.  All  types.  Foreign,  U.S.  Chance  to 
travel.  Fare  paid.  Application  forms.  For  information  Write 

Section  95B,  National,  1020  Broad,  Newark,  N.J. 

BUSINESS  OPPORTUNITIES 
EARN  AT  HOME  everything  furnished.  Details  Free,  Crea- 
tion's Box  386,  Austin,  Texas. 

DO-IT-YOURSELF 

LEARN  ART  METALCRAFT  and  jewelry  making.  Complete, 
inexpensive,  home  training  course  now  available.  Special  tools 
and  materials  furnished.  Write  for  free  booklet.  Interstate 
Training  Service,  Dept.  L-72,  Portland  13,  Oregon. 

HOME  SEWERS  WANTED 

SEW  BABY  SHOES  at  home.  No  canvassing.  $40.00  weekly 

possible.  Write:  Tiny-Tot,  Gallipolis  19,  Ohio. 

SEW  APRONS  AT  home  for  stores.  Write:  Adco,  Bastrop, 

Louisiana. 

MALE  &  FEMALE  HELP  WANTED 

EARN  EXTRA  MONEY  selling  Advertising  Book  Matches. 
Free  sample  kit  furnished.  Matchcorp,  Dept.  WP-28,  Chicago 

32,  Illinois. 

LOANS  BY  MAIL 

BORROW  $50  TO  $500.  Employed  men  and  women  over  25, 
eligible.  Confidential — no  co-signers— no  inquiries  of  employ- 
ers or  friends.  Repay  in  monthly  payments  to  fit  your  income. 
Supervised  by  State  of  Nebraska.  Loan  application  sent  free 
in  plain  envelope.  Give  occupation.  American   Loan  Plan, 

City  National  Bldg.,  Dept.  WD-8,  Omaha,  Nebraska. 

AGENTS  WANTED 

60%  PROFIT  COSMETICS.  $25  Day  Up.  Hire  others. 
Samples,  details.  Studio  Girl  Hollywood,  Glendale,  Calif.. 
Dept.  1668H. 


SHORTHAND  '" 


Famous  SPEEDWRITING  shorthand.  120 
words  per  minute.  No  symbols,  no 
machines:  uses  ABC's.  Easiest  to 
learn,  write  and  transcribe.  Low  cost. 
Over  350,000  graduates.  For  business 
and  Civil  Service.  Typing  available. 
33rd  year.  Write  for  FREE  booklet  to: 


ftlA/ffcfc*0 


MAKE  S50-S60  A  WEEK 
You  can  learn  .at  home  in  spare  time. 
Choice  of  careers:  practical  nurse, 
nursing  aide,  hospital  attendant,  infant 
nurse,  nurse-companion,  doctor's  office, 

\etc.    Course   endorsed   by   physicians. 
^f^?  57th  year.  Equipment  included.  Men, 

u--^--'/    --'  women,  18  to  60.  High  school  not  re- 

quired.   Easy   tuition  payments.   Trial  plan.    Write   today. 
CHICAGO    SCHOOL    OF    NURSING 
Dept.  468,  25  East  Jackson  Blvd.,  Chicago  4.  III. 
Please  send  free  booklet  and  16  sample  lesson  pages. 

Name 

City State Ape 


New  Way  to  Remove  Dandruff 

New  concentrated  DANDRICIDE  RINSE  releases  anti-dandruff 
action  no  ordinary  tonic  or  shampoo  can  duplicate 

WHY    HAVE    DANDRUFF?    Tonight,   yon    can        Concentrated  to  last   longer!  Easy  to  use! 


have    a    cleaner    scalp,    healthier    looking    hair, 
gleaming  with   a  soft  clean   sheen! 

With  new  Dandricide,  loose  itchy  dandruff  is 
removed  instantly  with  a  unique  anti-dandruff, 
scalp   conditioning   rinse    action! 

Old  fashioned  dandruff  "tonics"  or  shampoos 
may  merely  dissolve  dandruff  scales,  only  to  have 
them  return  in  a  few  days.  New  Dandricide  rinses 
loose  dandruff  OUT  . . .  really  cleans  the  scalp 
.  .  .  fights  the  fast  return  of  unsightly,  itchy  dan- 
druff as  no  tonic  or  shampoo  can! 


Because  it's  concentrated,  you  get  12  Dandricide 
rinses  in  a  $1.00  bottle.  Just  mix  with  water  as 
directed,  rinse  and  that's  all!  Get  Dandricide  at 
drug  and  department  stores,  beauty  and  barber 
shops. 


75 


Sunday  News  Special.  As  a  free-lance,  he 
makes  many  film  commercials. 

How  he  stretches  his  hours,  I'll  never 
know,  but  in  his  spare  time  he  flies  his 
own  plane,  is  an  expert  horseman  and 
skier,  a  good  photographer  and  an  avid 
deep-sea  diver.  His  interest  in  sports  has 
been  strengthened  by  his  desire  to  be  close 
to  his  children.  Gretchen,  a  dark-haired, 
dark-eyed  charmer  of  eighteen,  wins  blue 
ribbons  at  horse  shows  and  shares  Dwight's 
interest  in  drama  and  classical  music. 
Blond,  blue-eyed  Richard,  who  is  a  year 
younger,  plays  football,  wants  to  become 
a  mechanical  engineer,  and  argues  about 
opera-versus-jazz  with  Dwight. 

I  do  admire  the  way  he  has  remained 
close  to  them  despite  his  divorce,  six-seven 
years  ago.  I  remember  his  saying  then, 
"Ethel,  I  don't  want  to  be  a  stranger  to  my 
own  children.  I  must  make  sure  we  enjoy 
our  time  together."  He  has  accomplished 
it  through  special  short  trips  and  big 
vacations.  A  visit  to  Martha's  Vineyard 
set  the  pattern  for  their  adventures.  They 
left  the  car  at  the  airport,  packed  para- 
troopers' folding  bicycles  into  Dwight's 
amphibian  SeaBee  plane,  flew  to  their 
destination,  set  up  the  bikes  and  explored 
that  historic  spot.  They  have  since  fished 
along  the  Atlantic  seaboard  and  in  the 
Canadian  woods. 

In  Bermuda,  they  discovered  deep-sea 
diving.  Telling  me  about  it,  Dwight  said, 
"Richard  wanted  me  to  try  this  little 
face-mask  he  had.  Looking  through  it,  I 
found  a  whole  new  world.  The  movements 
of  the  fish  and  the  colors  of  the  plants 
and  the  rocks  were  simply  magnificent." 

By  now  they  have  learned  about 
snorkels  and  aqua  lungs,  hydropacks  and 
helmets.  Last  year,  Dwight,  Richard  and 
some  friends  were  first  to  dive  on  a 
freighter,  the  Wytchwood,  which  had  sunk 
the  week  before  in  sixty  feet  of  water. 
The  crew  got  off  safe,  but  they  lost  all 
Iheir  gear.  Dwight's  description  was  vivid. 
"It  was  a  weird  sight.  Their  clothes  had 
floated  out  of  the  cabins  and  were  waving 
around  in  the  current.  A  clanging  port- 
hole made  an  eerie  sound.  As  souvenirs, 
we  brought  up  a  ship's  clock,  a  light,  a 
sextant  and  a  few  other  things.  But  Her 
Majesty's  customs  officials  had  watched  us 
through  telescopes.  They  met  us  on  shore 
and,  a  bit  stiffly,  informed  us  we  knew 
nothing  of  the  laws  of  salvage.  They  im- 
pounded everything  for  three  years.  I  was 
able  to  keep  only  the  buttons  I  pulled  off 
an  officer's  coat.  Richard  kept  a  pair  of 
dentist's  pliers." 

That's  my  Dwight— a  wonderful  father, 
a  wonderful  actor,  a  wonderful  friend. 
But  I  couldn't  help  worrying  about  his 
being  alone  in  that  apartment,  just  living 
for  the  times  he  could  be  with  his  kids. 
I'd  say  to  him,  "Dwight,  you  ought  to  find 
yourself  a  nice  girl  .  .  ." 

Yet,  when  he  did  start  dating,  I  believe 
I  worried  even  more,  for  the  thought 
struck  me,  "What  if  Dwight  marries  the 
wrong  girl?"  Of  course,  I'm  sure  the  girls 
he  dated  were  perfectly  nice  girls.  Dwight 
wouldn't  have  gone  with  them  if  they 
weren't.  But  I  didn't  know  them,  so— 
perhaps  just  a  teeny  bit  like  Mother 
Burton — I  fussed  about  it.  I  also  began 
thinking  about  Avery  Hathaway. 

Both  Avery  and  her  mother,  Madeleine, 
have  houses  in  our  lane.  Avery's  daugh- 
ter, now  two  years  old,  also  is  named 
Madeleine.  Theirs  is  a  fine  old  New  Eng- 
land family  dating  right  back  to  the  May- 
flower. Avery  is  lovely  to  look  at— tall, 
with  good  bones,  fine  features,  brown  eyes 
and  dark  chestnut  hair  which  curls  nat- 
}  urally.  Describing  her,  you  automatically 
R  think  of  the  word  "patrician" — for,  while 
she  is  warm  and  outgoing  in  tempera- 
ment, she  also  has  a  deep  sense  of  dignity. 
When  her  marriage  broke  up,  she  didn't 
76 


go  crying  over  it  on  everyone's  shoulder. 

But  life  in  a  suburban  community  can  be 
solitary  for  a  woman  alone  with  a  small 
child.  To  her,  too,  I  often  gave  the  same 
advice:  "Now,  Avery,  you  should  find 
some  nice  young  man  .  .  ." 

Naturally,  I  had  mentioned  Avery  to 
Dwight  and  Dwight  to  Avery,  but  I  never 
wanted  to  say  too  much,  for  you  know  the 
way  any  man  and  woman  resent  being 
thrown  at  each  other.  But  I  did  want  to 
introduce  them.  Once  they  met,  I'd  rely  on 
that  trusted  combination.  Moon  and  June 
still  logically  rhyme  with  "spoon."  That 
was  good  strategy.  And,  had  I  used  the 
same  wisdom  with  my  husband,  all  would 
have  been  well.  But  no — I'd  had  to  let  him 
in  on  the  plot.  Now  I  couldn't  invite  the 
two  of  them  to  my  home  without  kicking 
up  a  fine  family  ruckus. 

I'd  sure  outsmarted  myself,  I  decided, 
while  riding  the  train  to  the  studio  the 
next  day.  Maybe  after  nine  years  of  play- 
ing the  role,  I  hadn't  really  learned  very 
much  about  Mother  Burton.  She  would 
have  been  oh-so-smooth.  I'd  been  about 
as  subtle  as  a  kid  bobbing  for  apples.  Jack 
was  right.  From  now  on,  I'd  keep  my 
mouth  shut. 

Only,  you  know,  I  didn't.  References  to 
Avery  kept  creeping  into  my  conversation 
with  Dwight.  Little  things  like:  "Avery 
and  I  went  shopping.  .  .  ."  Or,  "Avery  and 
I  traded  plants  from  our  gardens.  She  had 
too  many  delphinium  and  I  had  these  spe- 
cial hollyhocks.  .  .  ." 

The  first  hint  my  small  campaign  was 
progressing  came  the  day  Dwight  inter- 
rupted one  of  my  aimless  references  with 
a  question,  "Who  is  this  Avery  girl  you're 
always  talking  about?  What  does  she  look 
like?"  I  proved  to  myself  I  had  learned  my 
lesson.  Instead  of  launching  on  a  glowing 
account,  I  merely  said,  "I  just  couldn't  de- 
scribe her.  You'll  have  to  come  out  to  our 
house  and  see  for  yourself." 

I  took  the  same  tack  with  Avery — but, 
having  caught  sight  of  Dwight  on  TV,  she 
had  a  slight  advantage.  Eventually,  she  did 
voice  that  typically  feminine  question — 
"What's  he  really  like?"— so  I  had  a  chance 
to  play  coy.  I  merely  said,  as  I  had  to  him, 
"I'll  have  to  invite  both  of  you  to  my 
house.  Then  you  can  see  for  yourself." 

But  how  to  do  it,  with  Jack  playing  the 
staunch  defender  of  the  "status  quo,"  was 
another  problem.  The  month  of  May 
bloomed  into  June,  June  sizzled  into  July, 
and  still  I  hadn't  managed  to  bring  them 
together.      Then    Opportunity    knocked! 

The  heat  had  made  Jack  restless.  The 
Japanese  beetles  had  attacked  his  roses 
and,  on  that  particular  day,  I  was  off  the 
show  and  had  a  list  of  projects,  long  as 
your  arm,  for  him  to  attend  to — and  he 
didn't  feel  like  it.  He  stomped  into  the 
kitchen  and  delivered  a  decision.  "Ethel, 
there's  no  sense  in  being  retired  if  you 
work  harder  than  in  the  office.  I'm  going 
fishing." 

Again,  I  wasn't  smart.  I  should  have 
ventured  at  least  one  wifely  objection.  In- 


ROCK  V  ROLL 

with  our  big  music  feature  .  .  .  Also, 
cover  pictures  and  intimate  stories  on 

Elvis  Presley   •   Myron  Floren 

Mike  Wallace 

Peter  Lind  Hayes  &  Mary  Healy 

All    these — and    more! — in    September 

TV  RADIO   MIRROR 


on  sale  August  7 


stead,  I  said,  "When?"  Jack  said,  "Tomor- 
row morning,"  then  looked  at  me  suspi- 
ciously. "What  are  you  up  to?  You're  too 
anxious." 

I  was  anxious,  all  right.  Jack's  car  wasn't 
more  than  out  of  the  driveway  when  I  was 
on  the  phone,  calling  Dwight.  "Remember 
that  girl  you  wanted  to  meet?  Come  out  to 
Westport  tonight  and  I'll  take  you  both  to 
dinner." 

Dwight,  darn  him,  hesitated.  "Can't  I 
come  tomorrow?" 

I  practically  shouted  into  the  phone. 
"No!"   Tomorrow  Jack  would  be  home. 

"But  I've  got  a  date." 

"Break  it.  It's  tonight  or  never." 

Things  I  had  said  about  Avery  must 
have  intrigued  him,  for  he  laughed  and 
said,  "Mother,  you've  got  a  way  with  you. 
I'll  be  out." 

Then  I  called  Avery.  "Dear,"  I  told  her, 
"I  have  a  guest  coming  to  cocktails.  That 
Dwight  Weist  I've  spoken  of.  Jack's  away 
and  I  really  need  you  to  help  me  out.  Can 
you  plan  on  dinner,  too?" 

"I'd  be  glad  to,"  said  Avery.  "Should  I 
bring  Mother?" 

Again  I  nearly  shouted.  "No!  One  mother 
on  the  scene  is  enough." 

I  wish  you  could  have  seen  Avery  as  she 
came  sauntering  down  our  lane.  She 
looked  just  the  way  a  pretty  girl  should 
look  on  a  July  evening.  Pink  chiffon  dress, 
dainty  sandals,  hair  tossed  back  in  soft 
curls.    Oh,  she  was  a  picture. 

Their  meeting  was  easy  and  pleasant, 
but  I  was  taking  no  chances.  There's  noth- 
ing like  keeping  people  moving  from  place 
to  place  to  save  a  party  from  getting  stiff. 
I  whisked  them  off  to  Cobb's  Mill  Inn,  just 
about  the  most  romantic  setting  I  could 
imagine. 

Did  the  introduction  take?  Well,  I'll  tell 
you — after  the  first  fifteen  minutes,  I  could 
have  gone  home  and  neither  one  would 
have  known  I'd  left.  Their  "party"  calls  to 
me  were  a  further  tip-off.  Each  thanked 
me  prettily.  Each  made  some  vague  refer- 
ence to  the  other.  You  know  the  usual 
masking  words — charming,  interesting,  de- 
lightful. The  less  they  said,  the  more 
pleased  I  was.  "They're  being  cagey,"  I 
thought.  "They  have  another  date  and 
don't  want  me  to  know  it." 

That  was  fine,  in  the  beginning.  But,  as 
time  spun  on,  I  began  to  wonder.  I  knew 
Dwight  came  out  to  Westport  now  and 
then;  I  knew  Avery  went  into  town  on  an 
occasional  evening — but  nothing,  absolute- 
ly nothing,  happened. 

Finally,  come  February,  I  thought  I'd 
better  find  out.  As  Dwight  and  I  were 
leaving  the  studio,  I  asked,  "How  are  you 
and  Avery  getting  along.  Do  you  find  her 
interesting?"  Dwight  was  most  formal. 
"She  is  a  very  charming  woman." 

Then  I  had  a  notion.  By  now,  Jack  knew 
they  had  met.  He  wouldn't  object  to  a  lit- 
tle Valentine  party.  I  suggested,  "How 
would  you  like  to  spend  the  weekend  with 
us?" 

Dwight's  rejection  of  my  invitation  was 
positively  starchy.  "Gosh,  Ethel,  I'm  sorry. 
I'm  going  skiing  up  at  Stowe,  Vermont. 
They  say  snow  conditions  are  perfect." 

The  nerve  of  him!  I  stalked  off  thinking, 
"All  right  for  you,  Dwight  Weist.  I  know 
all  about  men  like  you.  The  old  bachelor 
habits  have  set  in.  You  shy  from  the  sight 
of  a  wedding  ring,  even  in  a  store  window. 
You're  not  going  to  let  any  woman  tie  you 
down.  Well,  keep  your  freedom  and  I  hope 
you're  stuck  with  it." 

I  do  believe  that  is  as  close  as  I've  ever 
come  to  being  angry  with  Dwight.  Avery 
certainly  had  better  find  a  more  likely 
candidate.  I  began  trying  to  think  of  eligi- 
ble men  I  knew. 

But  any  talks  I  planned  on  having  with 
her  had  to  be  deferred.  Avery,  I  learned, 
was  away  for  the  weekend.  Her  mother  did 


drop  in  on  Sunday.  Jack  was  out  of  the 
house,  so  I  spoke  right  up.  "Do  you  know 
where  that  fool  Dwight  is  this  weekend? 
Valentine  weekend?  He's  gone  skiing. 
Clear  up  to  Stowe,  Vermont." 

Madeleine  started  to  laugh.  "Do  you 
know  where  Avery  is?  She's  up  at  Stowe, 
too.  With  Dwight." 

The  next  week  was  utterly  frustrating. 
Dwight  told  me  about  Avery's  skill  as  a 
skier.  Avery  spoke  about  the  lovely  crowd 
at  the  inn.  Neither  said  a  single  word 
which  meant  anything. 

That's  how  matters  stood  until  the  fol- 
lowing Sunday  afternoon.  I  was  writing 
letters,  Jack  was  half-dozing  over  the 
mound  of  Sunday  papers,  when  Dwight 
and  Avery  arrived.  Surprised  to  see  them, 
it  was  my  turn  to  talk  eloquently  about 
nothing.  Dwight  broke  it  off  by  saying  to 
Jack,  "It's  sure  funny.  As  Mother  Burton, 
she  notices  everything.  But  Ethel  certainly 
isn't  very  observing  today." 

"Observing?"  I  said.  "What  is  there  that 
I  should  have  noticed?"  Avery  held  up  her 
hand.  Left  hand.  Third  finger.  On  it  blazed 
a  diamond  about  the  size  and  brilliance  of 
a  Kleig  light. 

I  was  so  happy  I  wanted  to  run  over  and 
kiss  them  both.  I  wanted  to  laugh  and  cry 
and  tell  them  how  much  I  loved  them. 
But  that  would  only  have  embarrassed 
them.  So  I  tried  to  be  the  comedienne  to 
the  end.  "What's  that?"  I  demanded,  pre- 
tending I  couldn't  see  the  stone.  "I'll  have 
to  get  my  magnifying  glass."  While  swal- 
lowing the  lump  in  my  throat,  I  made  a 
great  show  of  rummaging  in  a  desk  draw- 
er. "Where  did  all  this  happen?" 

"At  Stowe,"  said  Avery. 

I  turned  to  Dwight.  "How?" 

He  beamed.  "I  thought  we  always  had 
such  a  good  time  together  we  should  keep 
on  having  a  good  time  together — always." 

"You  sure  kept  quiet  about  it  for  seven 
days." 

Dwight  apologized.  "I'm  sorry  I  couldn't 
tell  you  sooner,  but  I  wanted  to  see 
Gretchen  and  Richard  to  tell  them  before 
they  heard  it  from  anyone  else.  The  kids 
were  pleased.  They  like  Avery." 

He  harrumphed  away  what  I  suspect 
was  a  slight  throat  obstruction  of  his  own. 
"And,  Mother  Burton — I  might  also  say 
that,  at  long  last,  you're  going  to  get  your 
wish.  I'll  be  moving  to — shall  we  say,  Bur- 
ton Towers?" 

Jack,  always  literal,  asked,  "You  mean 
our  lane?"  When  Dwight  nodded,  he 
grasped  his  hand  and  shook  it  heartily. 
"Welcome,  neighbor.  I've  always  thought 
you  and  Avery  were  meant  for  each 
other." 

Now  honestly,  you'd  have  thought  Jack 
was  the  one  who  started  this.  Men!  I'll 
never  understand  them. 

I  had  the  fun  of  announcing  the  engage- 
ment to  the  cast  of  The  Second  Mrs.  Bur- 
ton. I  did  it  in  style  and  brought  bouton- 
nieres  for  the  men  and  corsages  for  the 
girls,  and  we  had  a  fine  flurry  of  excite- 
ment and  good  wishes. 

Avery  and  Dwight  were  married  April 
25  at  the  Green  Farms  Congregational 
Church  at  Westport,  with  Jack  practically 
playing  the  master  of  ceremonies  and  me 
feeling  very  much  the  mother  of  the  bride- 
groom. 

And  do  you  know  what  we  neighbors 
gave  Avery  at  her  bridal  shower?  We  had 
the  party  at  my  house,  of  course.  And, 
since  she  didn't  need  linens  or  any  of  the 
usual  things,  I  had  an  inspiration.  I  sug- 
gested we  give  her  an  outdoor  barbecue 
spit.  From  my  own  point  of  view,  it  has 
proved  a  most  enjoyable  gift — for,  when 
there's  a  party  starting,  we  can  smell  good 
things  cooking  two  doors  away  and  it  is 
almost  inevitable  that  Dwight  and  Avery 
ask  Jack  and  me,  too.  Perhaps  I  do  have 
a  few  of  Mother  Burton's  wiles,  after  all. 


Now— so  easy  to  be 
a  blonde  again! 

Actually  simpler  than  setting  your  hair! 


If  your  hair  was  born  to  be  blonde— 
and  isn't— or  if  you're  a  brownette 
with  blonde  ambitions,  Light  and 
Bright  by  Richard  Hudnut  is  for 
you.  It's  a  home  hair-lightener  de- 
signed to  bring  out  all  the  hidden 
gold  in  your  hair . . .  make  you  as 
blonde  as  you  were  born  to  be. 

Light  and  Bright  is  so  simple  and 
easy  to  use;  simpler,  in  fact,  than 
setting  your  hair.  No  messy  mixing. 
No  complicated  testing.  No  worri- 
some timing.  And  Light  and  Bright 
gives  you  genuine  "color  control"! 

Light  and  Bright  works  so  gently, 
so  gradually,  you  don't  have  to 
worry  about  getting  too  blonde  too 
fast.  Each  time  you  use  Light  and 
Bright  your  hair  gets  a  little  lighter, 


a  little  brighter.  When  you  reach 
just  the  color  you  want,  you  stop. 

Light  and  Bright  contains  no  am- 
monia. If  s  formulated  with  a  special 
built-in  conditioner.  Wonderful,  the 
way  Light  and  Bright  makes  you  a 
true,  natural-looking  blonde  again 
. . .  with  lovely  shining-soft  hair!  And 
once  this  gentle  home  brightener 
has  brought  to  light  your  real 
blondeness  that  mousey  look  is 
gone  for  keeps.  Your  new  golden 
look  won't  wash  out,  won't  fade. 
Guaranteed  by  Good  Housekeeping. 

Get  a  bottle  today— be  a  blonde 
beauty  tomorrow.  Only  $1.50  plus 
tax  for  Light  and         --gEo^ssj^ 
Bright  at  cosmetic     (LpZZ£$£ 
counters.  ^SiLmnmwusSS 


A  dvertisement 


PERMANENT  DARKENER  &«% 
FOR  LASHES  AND  BROWS  « 

•  A  beautiful  TINT! 

•  ONE  APPLICATION  LASTS  4-5  WEEK S» 
Takes  just  seconds  to  apply  .  .  .  stays  on 
4  to  5  weeks!  "Dark-Eyes"  is  the  perfect 
Way  to  make  eyelashes  and  brows  com- 
pletely natural  looking  .  .  .  and  it  will  not 
harden  or  break  them  I  "Dark-Eyes"  is  NOT 
A    MASCARA!    Will    not    stick    to    eyelash 

i  curler.  Eliminates  the  bother  of  daily  eye 
make-up.  It  is  PERMANENT, 
SWIMPROOF,  SMUDGEPROOF, 
TEARPROOF,    and    SMEAR- 

Ue»°,sr.-.i  proof! 

$7.00  (plus  tax)  at  /coding  drug, 
dept.  and  variety  chain  stores. 

"DARK-EVES"  COMPANY,  Dept.  P-86 

3319  w.  Carroll  Ave..  Chicago  24,  III. 

I  •nclot«  2  5<  (coin  or  ilomps-lax  included)  for  TRIAl  SIZE 
PACKAGE  of  "Dark-  Eyes"  with  direction!. 

check  color:    □  Black   D  Brown 


Nam* — 
Addreii- 

Town__ 


SHEETS,  TOASTERS, 
TOWELS,  MIXERS,etc. 

GIVEN  TO  YOU-FREE! 

Take  your  choice  of  hundreds  of  nationally  adver- 
tised products:  Cannon  Sheets  and  Towels,  Dormeyer 
Mixers,  Toastmaster  Toasters,  Bates  Bedspreads, 
Westinghouse  Vacuum  Cleaners  —  curtains,  wearing 
apparel,  silverware,  furniture,  watches,  cameras  — 
yours  without  cost !  Vou  don't  pay  a  cent  for  anything. 

Send  for  FREE  Color  Catalog 

You  can  have  any  of  the  fine  mer- 
chandise shown  in  our  beautiful, 
big  Catalog:  $50.00  —  $100.00 
worth — or  more; — simply  by  being 
Secretary  of  a  Popular  Club  you 
help  your  friends  form.  It's  fun ! 
Thousands  are  refurnishing  and 
redecorating  their  homes  this  new, 
easy  way — without  spending  any 
money.  You  can,  too ! 

Nothing  to  Buy  — Nothing  to  Sell! 
Mail  the  coupon  or  write  for  the  Free  276-Page  Full 
Color  Catalog  and  select  the  merchandise  you  want. 
See   how  easily  you   can   get   it  without  a  penny  of 
cost.  No  obligation — write  today. 


'  Popular  Club  Plan,  Dept.  J916 
I  Lynbrook,  New  York 

Please  send  me  FREE  CATALOG  of  nationally  ad 
vertised  merchandise  and  tell  me  how  I  may  get 
anything  I  want  without  cost. 


Name. 


Address. 


T 

1 

1 

1 

T 

1 

V 

1 

R 

City Zone State. 


77 


(Continued  from  page  42) 
marriage  of  David  Cunningham  Garro- 
way,  Jr.,  to  Pamela  Wilde  (the  Marquise 
de  Coninck)  is  the  most  unexpected.  And 
the  most  exceptional.  .  .  .  Unexpected  to, 
among  others,  bridegroom  Garroway  him- 
self—because, less  than  three  years  ago, 
Dave  would  have  said  (and  did  say)  that 
marriage  was  not  for  him,  nor  ever  again 
likely  to  be.  "I  have  lived  alone,  neither 
loving  it  nor  hating  it,"  Dave  said,  at  that 
time,  "for  seven  years.  I  shall  probably 
continue  to  live  alone,  neither  loving  it  nor 
hating  it,  for  conceivably  another  forty  to 
fifty  years!" 

Exceptional  because  it's  slightly  extraor- 
dinary— not  to  say  improbable — for  a 
gentleman  who  has  lived  in  a  state  of 
bachelorhood  for  ten  years  to  suddenly 
turn  benedict.  .  .  .  Especially  for  one  with 
as  many  opportunities  (pick-of-the-crop 
pretty  ones!)  to  forsake  what  he  de- 
scribed as  his  "quite  literally  monastic 
life"  as  were  afforded  Mr.  Garroway — 
whose  six-foot-two,  210-pound  frame, 
sandy  hair,  gray  eyes,  instinctive  good 
manners  and  "slow-motion  dynamo"  per- 
sonality are  not  in  the  least  unattractive 
to  the  ladies.  .  .  .  and  for  one  with  so 
many  well-considered  reasons  for  not  do- 
ing so. 

As  an  instance:  Dave  was  saying,  three 
years  ago,  "There  is  no  such  thing  as  the 
Ideal  Woman — because,  on  a  purely  math- 
ematical basis,  there  can't  be.  The  human 
organism  is  made  up  of  an  astronomical 
number  of  personality  traits.  For  a  man 
to  expect  to  find  a  woman  whose  traits 
match  his  is  like  expecting  to  draw  thir- 
teen spades  in  a  bridge  game.  Not"  Dave 
added,  "that  I  have  set  my  sights  too  high. 
A  girl  with  whom  I  can  be  comfortable  is 
the  only  major  requirement.  Assuming 
this  is  so,  and  that  she  has  a  centrally  lo- 
cated nose,  she  can  be  short  or  tall,  dark 
or  fair,  slender  or  stocky — have  three  eyes 
and  four  ears,  for  all  of  me."  And  not 
that  he  wasn't  keeping  his  weather  eye 
open,  either — "hoping,"  he  said,  "if  not 
expecting  something  to  happen.  .  .  .  But, 
although  I  look  all  day  long,  nothing  ever 
does!"    That's  what  he  said  then. 

"But  one  evening,  I  looked  up,"  Dave 
now  laughs,  somewhat  incredulously,  "and 
suddenly  something  did  happen!  .  .  .  The 
evening  to  which  I  refer  was  in  the  sum- 
mer of  '54,  almost  two  years  ago.  The 
place  was  Billy  Rose's  place — Billy's  mag- 
nificent country  house  which  recently 
burned  to  the  ground — where  I  was 
spending  the  weekend.  The  girl,"  Dave 
adds,  "was  Pamela. 

"She  happens  to  be  quite  pretty. 
'Beautiful?'  Yes,  I'd  say  so— although  if 
I  try  to  explain  why  I  say  so,  I  will  prob- 
ably come  out  with  one  of  those  nebulous 
descriptions.  She  has  a  sparkle  that  she 
carries  everywhere.  Never  bored.  Out- 
going. She's  dark.  Dark  eyes,  dark  hair. 
Of  medium  height.  Slim.  She  wears 
clothes  beautifully  and — having  spent 
most  of  her  life  in  France,  where  she 
knew  all  of  the  couturiers — most  of  them 
are  Diors  and  the  like.  She  wears  her 
hair  a  lot  of  different  ways,  in  a  bun,  not 
in  a  bun — not  monotonous  to  look  at." 

Ask  Dave's   secretary,   chic,   young  and 

pretty    Nancy    Jones    for    a    woman's-eye 

view    of    another    woman.    "Oh,    lovely!" 

says  Nancy,  of  Dave's  Pamela.    "Her  face 

comes  up  to  points — an   upturning  face," 

she  explains,  "a  crisp  sort  of  face.   Lovely 

to  look  at!" 

y        Lovely    to    look    at.     But    when    Dave 

R    looked   up,   that  evening   at  Billy   Rose's, 

and   suddenly   something   happened.   .    .   . 

"What    happened,"    says    Dave,    "was    no 

this-is-the-girl    feeling,    no    big-romance- 

78 


Wedding  for  Today 

bows-in  revelation.  A  pleasant  girl,  I 
thought.  But  I  also  thought:  With  an- 
other guy.  And  let  it  go  at  that.  Ap- 
parently Pamela's  plumage  was  similarly 
unruffled  by  the  impact  of  this  first  meet- 
ing— for  she  told  me  later  that  if  I  hadn't 
been  wearing  a  scarlet  dinner  jacket  that 
evening — she  wouldn't  have  noticed  me 
at  all! 

"During  the  evening,  we'd  find  ourselves 
at  the  same  table,  or  in  the  same  corner 
now  and  then,  and  talk  a  bit.  Mostly  shop 
talk,  which — since  my  bride  is  an  assistant 
television  producer  with  Elliott,  Unger  & 
Elliott — was  common  ground.  I  also  picked 
up  a  few  such  vital  statistics  as  that  she 
is  twenty- eight,  was  born  in  Los  Angeles 
but  brought  up  in  Paris — where  her 
father,  who  is  president  of  Columbia  Pic- 
tures' International,  was  located  .  .  .  that 
she  had  been  married — but  no  longer  was 
— to  the  Marquis  de  Coninck  and  has  an 
eight-year-old  son,  Michael,  who  inherits 
the  title.  Other  than  a  mutual  and  natural 
enough  interest  in  television,  the  only 
other  common  bond  we  discovered  that 
evening  was  that  we  are  both  readers  of 
non-fiction  and  technical  books. 

"A  pleasant  girl,"  Dave  repeats,  "but  I 
did  want  to  know  where  I  could  reach 
her.  .  .  .  Here  the  common  interest  in  non- 
fiction  books  served  a  purpose:  A  book 
in  which  I  thought  she  might  be  inter- 
ested occurred  to  me.  In  order  to  send 
her  the  book,  I  obviously  had  to  have  her 
address.  This  she  gave  me  before  the 
party  broke  up.  I  sent  the  book.  What, 
I  then  wondered,  does  she  think  of  it? 
Be  mildly  interesting,  I  mused,  to  find  out. 
No  necessity  of  our  getting  together  to 
talk  about  it,  a  phone  call  will  do,  I 
thought,  giving  it  the  mental  shrug.  I  then 
had  to  finagle  around  some  to  get  her 
phone  number — which  she  hadn't  given 
me.  Finally,  by  means  of  tracing  it 
through  her  apartment  house  number — 
just  call  me  Nero  Wolfe! — I  succeeded.  .  .  . 
Since  I  do  not  habitually  go  to  this 
trouble,  I  began  to  perceive,  dimly,  the 
handwriting  on  the  wall.  However,  even 
after  the  phone  call — during  which  a  din- 
ner date  was  arranged,  then  another  din- 
ner, then  another— I  didn't  think  of  mar- 
riage .  .  .  didn't  seriously  consider  mar- 
riage, in  fact,  for  the  whole  first  year  of 
increasingly  steady  dating.  I  didn't  seri- 
ously believe,"  Dave  says  seriously  now, 
"that  it  was  for  me.  I  thought,  as  I  had 
been  thinking  for  the  past  four  years — or 
ever  since  the  program  called  Today  was 
launched  on  January  14,  1952 — I  haven't 
time.  .  .  . 

Almost  literally,  no  time  at  all — and 
what  there  is  of  it,  a  most  trying  time  to 
expect  a  wife  to  keep.  In  order  to  be  on 
the  air  with  Today  at  7  A.M.,  I  must  be 
in  the  studio  by  5  A.M.  From  five  to 
seven,  we  rehearse,  mostly  for  position. 
Cameras,"  Dave  explains,  "can't  ad-lib, 
have  got  to  know  where  to  go,  on  whom 
to  focus  and  why.  We  also  have  to  be 
on  hand,  in  the  event  of  an  emergency — 
such  as  an  expected  guest  who  doesn't 
materialize.  They  almost  always  do,  but 
occasionally  there  is  one  who  won't  get 
up  in  time.  In  order  to  be  in  the  studio 
at  5  A.M.,  I  must  awaken — now  we  come 
to  the  bleak  part  of  it— at  4  A.M.  I'm 
awakened  by  a  clock-radio  on  the  bed- 
side table  and  by  The  Horror,  a  monster 
with  a  throat  of  brass,  a  tone  that  would 
rouse  the  dead.  You  have  to  get  up," 
Dave  adds,  looking  dour,  "to  shut  that 
one  off!  That  I  am  going  to  have  a  flesh- 
and-blood  alarm  clock,  soft  throated  and 
gentle  voiced,  to  wake  me  in  the  morn- 
ing," Dave  sighs  happily,  "is  of  itself  an 
indescribable  blessing!" 


When  Today  goes  off  the  air  at  10 
A.M.  (EDT),  "communicator"  Garroway's 
crowded  day  goes  on.  There  are  staff 
meetings,  conferences,  interviews — more 
staff  meetings  with  agency  and  sponsor 
representatives.  "And,  by  the  time  they 
have  had  their  way  with  me — or  I,  infre- 
quently, with  them,"  Dave  smiles  wanly, 
"it  is  7  P.M.,  or  thereabouts.  Time  for 
dinner.  And  so,  at  8  P.M.,  to  bed  .  .  . 
Once  upon  a  time — time? — I  had  my 
weekends.  Now  I  work  most  of  the  week- 
end, every  weekend.  Rehearsal  all  day 
Saturday,  and,  until  air-time,  most  of 
Sunday  for  my  commentating  chores  on 
NBC-TV's  Wide  Wide  World.  From  7  to 
10  P.M.,  on  my  'day  of  rest,'  I  continue 
to  commentate  on  NBC  Radio's  Monitor. 

"Whether  or  not  I  shall  keep  up  this 
pace  after  our  marriage,  I  haven't  de- 
cided. But  that  this  pace  made  marriage 
seem  impossible  for  me — and  unfair  to 
the  'quite  impossible  she'  I  never  ex- 
pected to  meet — is  something  I  had  defi- 
nitely decided — so  I  thought.  .  .  , 

"Where  in  the  wide  world,  I  asked 
myself,  is  there  a  woman  who  would  bear 
with  alarms  going  off  at  4  A.M.,  lights  out 
at  8  P.M.,  husbandless  weekends?  Grant- 
ing that  so  improbable  a  phenomenon 
does  exist,  how  could  I  hope  that  she 
would  share  my  hobbies?  Some  of  these 
are  mild,  some  slightly  maniacal.  My  in- 
terest in  sports  cars,  old,  jazzed-up,  wind- 
shieldless  trick  cars  .  .  .  jazz  music  .  .  . 
haunting  marble  yards — marble  is  one  of 
the  milder  manias,  as  many  tables  in  my 
apartment  bear  witness  .  .  .  golf,  city 
life,  plain  food  .  .  .  my  love  of  quietness — 
jazz  music  notwithstanding.  "How  cduld 
any  reasonable  man  reasonably  expect  a. 
woman  to  fit  into  such  a  pattern? 

Then,  strangely  enough,  along  came 
Pamela,  who  fits  in  very  neatly  ...  so 
neatly  that  our  traits  and  tastes  are  as 
compatible   as  hand-in-glove    (except   for 

jazz — and  I'm  teaching  her  that) First 

of  all — and  most  surprisingly  of  all — she's 
a  sports-car  fan  from  'way  back!  We've 
discovered  that  once,  two  or  three  years 
ago,  we  were  both  at  LeMans  Race  Course 
in  France,  only  about  three  feet  away 
from  each  other — one  pit  between  us — 
and  didn't  know  it. 

"She  appreciates  the  necessity  of  a  man 
being  alone  once  in  awhile.  Alone,  and 
quiet.  I  expect  to  get  enough  of  the 
quietness  I  love  in  this  marriage.  Pamela 
is  not  the  noisy  type.  .  .  .  She  is  so  good 
in  so  many  ways.  Her  Gallic  training 
makes  her  the  opposite  of  simpering,  or 
posturing.  Makes  her  practical,  too.  She 
has  great  Gallic  sense  of  thrift — about 
money — about  clothes — about  food.  Can 
she  cook?  Superbly!  I  used  to  say  that 
exciting  foods  don't  excite  me,  but  that 
isn't  true  anymore.  When  Pamela  cooks," 
Dave  speaks  with  obvious  relish,  "I'm  ex- 
cited, all  right!  Because  when  she  cooks, 
it  tastes  different.  She  uses  a  lot  of  wine, 
lots  of  seasoning — but  delicate  seasoning. 
She  does  a  rabbit  stew  that  tastes  better 
than  anything!  And  Chinese  food — the 
light  oil  frying  they  do,  she  does. 

"She  accepts  the  hours  I  keep  as  the 
way  things  are,  when  you're  on  radio 
and  TV.  Whether  or  not  she  will  take 
naturally  to  waking  me  at  4  A.M.,  re- 
mains to  be  seen — and  heard.  I  suspect, 
however,  that  The  Horror  will  take  care 
of  that.  Also,  I  gave  her  a  clock-TV  (12- 
inch  screen)  for  Christmas.  Now  I'm 
turned  on  in  her  bedroom  every  morning 
at  7  o'clock  ...  a  form — rather  a  subtle 
form,  if  I  do  say  so — of  'conditioning.'  . 

"As  concerns  my  early-to-bed  routine, 
she's  in  complete  accord  .  .  .  she's  used 
to   being   dumped   at   home   at   8   o'clock! 


. 


Often  we  just  have  a  two-hour  dinner 
together,  and  that's  that.  Her  understand- 
ing conies,  in  part,  from  the  fact  that  she 
is  working  very  hard  herself,  from  8  to  6 — 
she's  going  to  stop  that  when  we're  mar- 
ried— and  is  so  tired,  just  as  I  am,  that 
when  we  see  each  other  we  just  sit  there. 

"Thrift  and  understanding  .  .  .  and,  with 
all  that,  a  very  warm  person.  (You  don't, 
you  know,  marry  a  girl  for  her  sense  of 
thrift.)  Gay.  A  fun  person.  Our  sense  of 
humor,"  Dave  smiles,  "is  much  the  same. 
We  love  to  go  and  see  really  bad  movies. 
Sort  of  like  playing  jeu  de  gateaux,  the 
French  game  of  pretending  that  every- 
thing is  dandy  when  everything  is  miser- 
able. Such  a  game,  translated  into  life,  is 
something  of  a  philosophy,  as  well  as  a 
genuine  sense  of  humor. 

"So,  it  kind  of  creeps  up  on  you  .  .  . 
marriage,  I  mean — the  idea  of  marriage 
and  liking  the  idea.  We  began  to  talk 
about  marriage  six  months  ago,  began  to 
be  more  and  more  realistic  about  the  fu- 
ture and  what  it  was  to  be — and  that  it 
was  to  be  together.  Although  I  don't  re- 
member any  one  moment,"  Dave  looks 
mildly  perplexed,  "when  I  said  'Will  you?' 
I  do  remember  asking  'What  kind  of  a 
ring  would  you  like?'  and  Pamela  saying 
'I  don't  care.'  And  I  remember  going  out 
and  buying  a  ring — a  marquise-shaped 
diamond,  about  three  carats — and  saying 
'Here's  your  ring,  dear,'  and  Pamela 
saying  'Thanks'  .  .  .  and  so,  without  spe- 
cial effects,  we  were  engaged!  The  wed- 
ding will  be  the  same — quiet,  small,  at 
the  home  of  Pamela's  parents  here  in 
New  York,  just  a  few  people,  none  of 
them  'names.' 

"Since  I  will  be  doing  Today  for  at  least 
two  more  years — I  recently  signed  a  new 
ten-year  contract  with  NBC — we'll  live  in 
town  for  a  while  after  we're  married, 
then  in  the  country.  We'll  have  young 
Mike  with  us  and  my  twelve-year-old 
daughter  Paris,  for  weekends,  I  hope. 
The  two  kids  have  met,  made  friends. 

"Country  life  will  be  a  whole  new  life, 
a  whole  new  world  to  me,"  says  Dave, 
"and  I — who  have  long  and  stoutly  main- 
tained that  I  am  a  'city  feller,'  by  habit, 
custom  and  preference — am  looking  for- 
ward to  it.  .  .  . 

"Nor  have  I  any  qualms  about  my 
ability  to  meet  any  challenge  the  country 
has  to  offer.  Let  hurricanes  blow,  blizzards 
rage,  lights  go  out,  plumbing  freeze — and 
I'm  your  man!  I'm  the  do-it-yourself 
type.  Fooled  around  with  tools  all  my 
life.(  Come  by  it  naturally  from  my  father, 
a  'trouble-shooting'  electrical  engineer 
who  used  tools  of  all  kinds,  as  if  they 
were  part  of  him. 

"We  would  like  to  find  a  simple,  one- 
story  very  modern  house — love  to  have 
it  near  the  water.  But  the  two  'musts' 
are  a  stable  where  Pamela,  an  expert 
horsewoman,  can  keep  a  horse — and  a 
workshop  for  me,  a  large  one  in  which 
to  keep  the  cars  I  want  to  buy.  About 
eight  cars  I'd  like  to  buy  right  now," 
Dave  sighs.  "Just  located  a  wonderful  old 
Rolls  in  London,  one  of  two  such  bodies 
ever  built. 

"No  man,"  Dave  admits,  more  soberly, 
"ever  walks  into  marriage  without  mis- 
givings. But  mine  are  very  small  ones — 
just  that  I  may  not  be  able  to  adjust  to 
married  life  after  ten  years  of  being  re- 
quired to  adjust  only  to  me!  .  .  .  Even 
these  misgivings  give  way,  however,  when 
I  reflect  upon  how  mistaken  I  was  in  my 
conviction  that  there  is  no  such  thing  as 
the  Ideal  Woman — the  woman  who  is 
ideal  for  you,  because  her  traits  and  tastes 
match  yours.  As  I  used  to  say,  to  illus- 
trate my  point  in  a  poker  game,  you  can't 
expect  to  reach  out  and  pick  up  a  royal 
flush.  .  .  .  Except  that,"  says  the  happiest 
looking  Dave  Garroway  friends  or  fans 
have  ever  seen,  "I  did." 


^^^ 


CATALOG 


NATIONAL  BELLAS  HESS 
FALL  &  WINTER  CATALOG 


This  catalog  offers  the  newest 
styles  for  you  and  your  family 
at  the  lowest  prices  anywhere. 

Shop  by  mail  and  join  the 
millions  who  save  by  buying 
regularly  from  this  colorful  cat- 
alog. Select  from  thousands  of 
the  latest  New  York  styles. 
Exciting  home  items,  too 
You'll  enjoy  America's  greatest 
savings  whether  you  pay  cash, 
order  C.O.D.  or  use  our  easy 
monthly  payment  plan. 

Everything  in  our  catalog  is 
absolutely  guaranteed  —  your 
money  back  if  you  are  not 
pleased.  Our  68th  Year. 


SAVE  MONEY,  SAVE  TIME-ACT  NOW! 


NATIONAL  BELLAS  HESS 

247-88  Bellas  Hess  Bldg.,  Kansas  City,  Mo. 

Please  send  me,  free,  the  new  National  Bellas 
Hess  Money-Saving  Catalog. 


Address. 
City 


HIGH  PAYING  OPPORTUNITIES 

Work  in  fabulous  So.  America.  The  Islands. 
Africa.  U.  s.  A.,  or  other  foreign  countries.  All 
Trades.  Labor.  Clerical,  Drivers.  Mechanics, 
Engineers,  etc.  Many  benefits.  Tax-free  earn- 
ings. Chance  to  travel.  Pare  paid  if  hired. 
Make  and  save  a  fortune.  Application  forms. 
Opportunities  for  women  also. 

For  information  Write  Dept.  94V 

NATIONAL    EMPLOYMENT    INFORMATION 

1020  Broad,  Newark,  N.  J. 


MATERNITY 
STYLE  CATALOG 


SAVE  MONEY-Shop  by  Mail!  FREE  cata- 
log: pictures  hundreds  of  exclusive  ma- 
ternity fashions.  World's  Largest,  Complete 
Selection,  Dresses,  Suits,  Mix  &  Match  Sep- 
arates, Sportswear,  Girdles,  Lingerie;  $2.98 
to  $22.98.  Catalog  mailed  in  plain  envelope. 

CRAWFORD'S 

Dept  35,  «015  Wornall,  Kansas  City  14fMo. 


.  N™lI0±P*0M0TE  HEALING 


Ompho-Phem 


^^OUNCEO  CA„>F0 


FIN 


WHEN 
USED  ON 


«V« 


PIMPLES  -ACHE 

CAMPHO-PHENIQUE   HELPS   PREVENT 
THEIR  SPREAD  AND   RE-INFECTION 

It's  wonderful,  too,  for  fever  blisters,  cold  sores,  gum  boils,  cuts 
and  scratches,  minor  burns  caused  by  book  matches,  hot  cooking 
utensils,  hot  water  or  steam.  Campho-Phenique  relieves  itching 
of  insect  bites,  poison  ivy,  etc.  Just  apply  Campho-Phenique 
next  time  and  see  how  fast  this  pain-relieving  antiseptic  goes  to 
work.  And  it  doesn't  stain  the  skin!  Get  a  bottle  today. 


79 


80 


Make*50-'75-M00 

AGAIN  AND  AGAIN 


SHOW   FRIENDS 


NEW  TYPE 

Christmas  and  All  Occasion 

GREETING  CARD  .  * 


folks  are  wild  about 


New  1956 

4-STYIE 

CHRISTMAS  CARD 

ASSORTMENT- 

24  Tall  Slim,  Oblong  Slim 

Square  and  Petite  Cards 

all  in  1  box 


New 19S6 

Christmas  Assortment  of 

VELVET  EMBOSSED 

SLIM  CARDS 


168  Easy  Ways  To  Make 

EXTRA  MONEY 


New  1956 
Assortment  of 

TALL 
HUMOROUS 
SPARKLING 

Christmas  Cards 


W&\ 


New  1956  Christmas 
Assortment  of 

SLIM  CARDS  WITH 
GOLD  &  SILVER 
MESH  INSERTS 

/*■   Cuoranleed  by   •£> 
l Good  Housekeeping 


74  SAMPLES 

Name  Imprinted 

Christmas  Cards,  Stationery 
just  for  writing  us! 


New  1956 

ALL  OCCASION 

Assortment  of 

TALL 

PARCHMENT 

CARDS 


SELL  AMAZING  VALUES 

Just  take  easy  orders  in  spare 
time.  New  ideas  in  greeting 
card   boxed    assortments,   girt 
.  wrappings,  home  &  gift  items, 
sender's  namel  exclusive    50    for    $1.50    Per- 
"Te're  V  sonal   Christmas   Cards   bring 
profits  to  100%plus  cash  bonus. 


Start  a  Greeting  Card  &  Gift  Shop  At  Home 
FREE  Full  Color  Illustrated  Catalog 


MAKE   FRIENDLY  SOCIAL  CALLS 

Show  women's,  children's,  men's  novelties.  Have 
cash  for  new  clothes,  furnishings,  your  group 
treasury.    No    experience    needed.    It's    easy-fun! 


NEW  FUND  RAISING  and  PARTY  PLANS 
Make  up  to  $1.00  per  box! 


ONE  MONEY  MAKER  SAYS: 

"I  have  been  selling  your  cards  for  almost 
two  years  and  1  have  made  enough  money 
to  buy  a  lot  of  things  I  have  wanted." 

— Diane   Carey  of   Illinois 


Write  today  for  FREE  TRIAL  Outfit  of 
EVERYTHING  YOU  NEED  to  get  started 


SEND  NO  MONEY 

Rush  name  and  address  for  Fea- 
ture boxes  on  approval .  If  out- 
fit does  not  make  money  for  you 
in  a  jiffy,  return  it  at  our  expense. 
New  England  Art  Publishers 
North    Abington    821,    Mass. 


FREE 

fMoney-Making  Guide\ 
shows  beginners  new] 
easy  ways  to  succeedJ 


i Mail  Coupon  Now. 


■■MlViUIl  LUUJJUM  I1UWH  WA 
■NEW  ENGLAND  ART  PUBLISHERS 
|  North  Abington  821,  Mass. 

I  Please  send  me  at  once  Feature  assort- 
ments on  approval,  free  samples  Per- 
sonal  Christmas  Cards.    Stationery,  free 

■  Catalog.    Selling    Guide    and    details    of 

■  your  wonderful  extra  money  plan. 


□ 


Check  here  if  writing  for  club  or  church 
organization  interested  in  raising  funds. 


The  Mrs.  Eddie  Fisher  I  Know 


L-j--.No  Risk  On  Your  Part  ...J 


{Continued  from  page  34) 
dancing  class:  I  was  dressing  for  the  next 
class  as  Debbie  came  out,  and  I  was  so 
excited  when  we  were  introduced  that  I 
pulled  my  dancing  shoes  out  of  my  case 
without  looking — and  we  both  fell  down 
laughing,  for  my  dachshund  had  chewed 
them  to  ribbons! 

Debbie  immediately  asked,  "What  size 
do  you  wear?" 

"Four-and-a-half,"   I   said. 

"Gee,  you're  the  first  person  I've  ever 
been  able  to  lend  my  shoes  to,"  she  said 
generously.  "Here,  take  these."  And  she 
handed  over  her  lovely  new  dancing  slip- 
pers. We  soon  became  fast  friends. 
Knobby  and  I  weren't  married  yet — he 
was  still  in  the  East — and  Debbie  was  go- 
ing with  R.J.  (Bob  Wagner).  I  know 
she  sensed  my  loneliness,  with  Knobby 
away,  and  she  invited  me  out  to  her  house 
in  the  Valley. 

I  soon  felt  I  was  part  of  the  family.  I 
sat  at  their  dinner  table  so  often  I  began 
calling  Mrs.  Reynolds  "Mom."  When  we 
went  on  double  dates,  Debbie  lent  me 
clothes  to  such  an  extent  that  I  felt  like 
her  sister.  She  was  my  strongest  booster 
at  the  studio,  forever  urging  the  execu- 
tives to  give  me  bigger  parts.  And,  when 
I  opened  at  the  Mocambo  in  July,  '52,  she 
was  there  to  hold  my  hand. 

Then  we  went  to  Korea  together  to  en- 
tertain. I  became  ill,  and  the  doctors  said 
I  might  lose  my  hearing.  Debbie  stayed 
with  me  the  whole  time.  For  a  singer  to 
lose  her  hearing,  of  course,  is  frightening. 
But  Debbie  had  a  strong  personal  phi- 
losophy, a  positive  attitude,  and  she 
wouldn't  let  me  give  up  hope.  "Don't 
worry,"  she  said.  "Everything  will  come 
out  all  right  .  .  ."  (And  she  certainly 
used  this  attitude  later,  when — before 
they  were  married — she  and  Eddie  were 
having  so  many  problems.) 

then  Knobby  came  to  California  with 
Ray  Anthony's  band,  to  play  the  Palla- 
dium. And  soon  the  Reynolds  family  had 
another  adopted  member — Debbie  is  like 
a  little  sister  to  Knobby,  like  the  little 
sister  he  never  had.  When  we  were  mar- 
ried, Debbie  was  my  maid  of  honor,  and 
Mr.  Reynolds  gave  me  away. 

At  the  party  following  our  wedding, 
Debbie  said  to  me,  "Someday  I'm  going 
to  find  a  fellow  just  like  Knobby  ..."  I 
should  have  seen  the  handwriting  on  the 
wall,  for  Eddie  and  Knobby  really  are  so 
much  alike:  They  are  about  the  same  age, 
the  same  size  and  the  same  temperament. 
They  are  both  shy  and  sort  of  quiet.  And, 
when  they  do  make  a  little  noise,  they 
have  to  force  themselves. 

I  met  Eddie  for  the  first  time — about 
three  months  before  Debbie  did — at  a  par- 
ty at  Terry  Moore's  house.  We  were  all 
singing  and  having  a  good  time,  and  Ed- 
die came  up  to  me  saying:  "You  sing  a 
fine  song  and  I'd  like  to  use  you  on  my 
show  .  .  .  What  are  you  doing  now?"  I 
had  just  begun  doing  the  Hunt's  Tomato 
Sauce  jingle.  I  didn't  want  to  tell  him— 
because  I  thought,  if  he  found  out  that  I 
was  singing  jingles,  then  he  wouldn't 
want  to  use  me.  A  few  months  later,  I 
saw  him  at  a  party  Debbie  gave,  and  he 
said,  "All  I  heard  in  New  York  were  those 
Hunt  things  you  did.  They're  sure  cute." 
And  he  sang  them  through  for  me! 

Eddie,  extremely  sensitive  to  the  feel- 
ings of  others,  knew  that  singing  my 
jingle  would  please  me.  He  insisted  that 
I  "guest"  on  his  show  right  then  and 
there.  Eddie,  who  came  from  a  poor 
family,  is  eager  to  give  other  young  per- 
formers a  helping  hand.  And  he's  fiercely 
loyal.  He's  had  people  with  him  from 
the    very    beginning    of    his    career    and 


never  let  one  of  them  go.  Not  only  loyal 
—he's  sweet,  he's  honest,  and  he  knows 
what  struggle  means.  I  think  these  are 
the  things  which  attracted  Debbie  to  Ed- 
die— because  she  has  these  qualities,  too. 

Debbie  and  Eddie  first  went  out  on  his 
opening  night  at  the  Cocoanut  Grove,  when 
he  called  and  asked  her  to  be  his  date.  I 
don't  know  if  the  studio  set  that  up,  or  if 
it  was  Eddie's  idea.  But  I  do  know  they 
were  thrown  together  long  enough  to 
know  that  something  clicked. 

The  next  Thursday,  Debbie  gave  a  Gay 
Nineties  party  at  a  friend's  house,  and 
Eddie  was  her  date  again.  Everyone  was 
dressed  in  the  style  of  the  1890's  and  it 
was  a  real  fun  party,  where  we  all  en- 
tertained. Debbie  put  on  a  wig  and  did 
a  singing-dancing  imitation  of  Eddie,  all 
the  time  rattling  Coca-Cola  bottles. 

But,  when  she  wasn't  "on,"  Debbie  was 
a  picture  of  contrast  to  her  party.  She 
followed  Eddie  with  her  eyes,  and  she  sat 
by  him,  quiet  and  subdued.  She  wasn't 
like  the  Debbie  I  knew,  at  all! 

The  next  Sunday,  Knobby  and  I  re- 
ceived a  specific  phone  invitation  to 
"come  by  the  house  for  a  barbecue."  This 
invitation  was  no .  simple,  "Hey,  drop 
around  ..."  So  we  knew  something  was 
up.  Jim  and  Pat  Mahoney  were  there, 
along  with  Bernie  Rich  and  Joey  Fore- 
man and  their  girls,  Knobby  and  myself 
and  Debbie  and  Eddie.  We  spent  the 
afternoon  fooling  around  the  pool  and 
taking  pictures.  Debbie  and  Eddie  were 
together  constantly,  and  in  my  eyes  this 
was  the  "I  want  you  to  meet  all  my 
friends"  kind  of  party. 

After  that,  the  four  of  us  went  to  the 
movies  a  couple  of  times,  and  I  could  see 
that  Eddie  was  fast  becoming  the  fellow 
for  Debbie.  Before,  when  we  went  on 
dates,  Debbie  had  been  a  regular  cutup. 
She  was  always  leaping  from  the  front 
seat  into  the  back,  or  sitting  so  far  over 
on  her  side  of  the  front  seat  that  she  al- 
most hung  out  over  the  door — chattering 
a  mile  a  minute  and  cracking  jokes. 

But,  sitting  in  the  front  seat  with  Eddie, 
she  actually  did  look  like  she  had  the 
fragrance  of  violets  about  her.  I  remem- 
ber one  night  I  said  kiddingly,  "Why, 
Frannie!  You're  actually  sitting  in  the 
middle  of  the  seat  next  to  Eddie,  instead 
of  hanging  out  the  door!"  Knobby — who,  I 
suppose,  is  more  sensitive  than  I — stuck 
his  elbow  in  my  ribs  as  if  to  say,  "Lay  off." 

That  was  in  August.  Late  in  Septem- 
ber, Debbie  called  to  say,  "I'm  coming 
over  .  .  ." 

I  said,  "Fine,  come  on  .  .   ." 

When  she  came  in,  her  face  was  one  big 
blush  and  sparkle.  "I've  got  something 
to  tell  you,"  she  said. 

And,  with  a  straight  face,  Knobby  re- 
plied, "We  can't  imagine  what  it  is." 

Then,  with  real  tenderness,  she  brought 
the  ring  out  of  her  pocket,  showing  it  to 
us  without  a  word.  The  only  time  I  was 
ever  as  happy  for  anybody  was  when  the 
minister  said,  "Man  and  wife  .  .  ."  and 
Knobby  and  I  were  married. 

Debbie's  engagement  was  kept  quiet 
for  a  month  or  more.  Only  the  "family" 
knew.  Then,  when  she  announced  it,  the 
trouble  started. 

As  a  matter  of  fact,  Knobby  and  I  were 
having  our  problems,  too.  I  had  gone  to 
NBC-TV's  George  Gobel  Show,  and  our 
constant  work  was  taking  us  further  and 
further  apart.  During  the  year  that  Deb- 
bie and  Eddie  were  having  so  much  trou- 
ble— some  people  wanting  them  to  get 
married  and  some  people  wanting  them 
not  to  get  married — Knobby  and  I  were 
having  a  rough  time,  too.  But  I  never 
said  anything  to  Debbie  about  it.    I  didn't 


yal 


think  it  was  fair.  She  had  trouble  enough. 

The  first  time  I  mentioned  my  problems 
was  in  New  York,  about  four  days  before 
she  and  Eddie  were  married.  Debbie 
dropped  into  a  recording  session.  "I 
guess  you've  seen  the  papers,"  I  said  (re- 
ferring to  my  own  worries). 

"Yes,"  Debbie  said,  "and  I  can't  even 
talk  about  it  ...  it  makes  me  so  unhap- 
py— both  for  you  and  for  Knobby." 

"We  are  really  trying  to  work  it  out,"  I 
said  (and,  of  course,  now  we  have  and  we 
couldn't  be  happier.)  "As  soon  as  we 
know  anything  ourselves,  we'll  let  you 
know  ..."  I  remember  I  was  recording 
"When  You  Wish  Upon  a  Star."  You 
know  the  fine,  "All  your  dreams  come 
true  .  .  ."  And,  after  the  song  was  over, 
I  said  to  Debbie,  "I  hope  that  both  our 
dreams  come  true." 

And  Debbie,  optimistic  as  always,  re- 
plied, "Don't  you  worry,  everything  will 
come  out  okay.  .  .  ." 

ii  our  days  later  she  was  married.  It 
was  all  done  in  a  terrible  hurry — just  like 
Knobby's  and  my  wedding.  (I  remember 
I  had  been  in  such  a  hurry  I  had  to  bor- 
row Debbie's  clothes  to  go  on  our  honey- 
moon!) Of  course,  she  tried  to  call  me  in 
New  York  for  the  wedding — but  I  had  al- 
ready gone  back  to  Hollywood. 

After  the  wedding  they  went  on  tour 
with  Coke  Time,  then  Eddie  brought  his 
show  to  Hollywood.  He  immediately 
asked  Axel  Stordahl  if  he  could  have 
Knobby  in  the  band.  Knobby  and  I  were 
seeing  each  other  and  on  the  verge  of 
going  back  together.  I  remember  the  first 
show  Eddie  did  here:  George  Gobel  was 
rehearsing  across  the  hall  and  I  went  in  to 
say  hello.  After  the  show,  Eddie  came 
out  and  introduced  Debbie  and  me  to  the 
audience.  "Meet  my  wife  and  my  friend," 
he  said.  Then  Debbie  looked  at  me,  say- 
ing, "Shall  we  .  .  ."  and  I  said  "Yes  .  .  ." 
and  we  picked  Eddie  up  and  carried  him 
bodily  off  stage  amid  much  laughter  from 
the   audience. 

Knobby  and  I  decided  to  go  back  togeth- 
er a  week  before  our  third  anniversary. 
First  we  called  our  families  and  then  we 
called  Mother  Reynolds.  "Oh,  Frannie 
will  be  so  pleased,"  she  said.  Then  Deb- 
bie came  to  the  phone  and  we  were  both 
crying,  we  were  so  happy  about  it,  and 
she  insisted  that  we  have  our  third  an- 
niversary party  there.  Because  my  par- 
ents are  in  the  East,  I  think  the  Reynolds 
feel  responsible  for  me.  On  our  first  an- 
niversary, Debbie  invited  everybody  who 
had  been  at  our  wedding.  And  she  gave 
us  a  second  anniversary  party,  too. 

So  the  third  anniversary  party  made  us 
a  completely  happy  family  again.  And 
now,  when  time  allows,  we  repeat  some 
of  the  old  fun  times  of  '52.  Cooking,  for 
example.  Debbie  and  I  are  the  world's 
fastest  cooks.  The  phone  suddenly  rings, 
Saturday  or  Sunday,  and  immediately  a 
barbecue  for  eight  is  underway.  Of 
course,  five  minutes  after  Debbie  and  I  get 
into  a  kitchen,  it  looks  as  though  a  hur- 
ricane had  struck  it.  Yes,  I  still  borrow 
from  her — but  now  it's  pots  and  pans. 

Speaking  of  borrowing,  Debbie  called 
from  New  York  just  after  she  made  the 
announcement  about  their  expected  baby. 
(I've  known  for  a  long  time  that  Debbie 
wanted  children.  And  I've  seen  Eddie 
with  youngsters— he's  absolutely  wild 
about  them.  I  know  he  will  make  a  good 
father.)  But,  to  get  back  to  the  borrow- 
ing— Debbie  called,  and  she  was  so  happy 
with  the  news  that  she  hardly  made 
sense.  But  I  caught  this  much  of  her 
conversation:  "As  soon  as  I  get  finished 
with  these  mother  clothes,  I'll  give  them 
to  you  and  then  you'll  have  to  go  to  work 
on  them!" 

Knobby  and  I  both  agree,  we  will,  too. 


Odorless  cream 
removes  dark  facial  hair 
safely. ..in  minutes! 


Before  Imra:  Hair  coarse, 
stubbly,    protruding. 


Stops  fast  bristly  regrowth. 

The  new  Imra  Rinse  Away 
Method  gently  dissolves  hair 
below  the  surface  of  the  skin. 
You  just  rinse  excess  hair 
off,  and  there's  no  fast, 
bristly  regrowth! 

Specialist  reveals  clinical 
results.  A  well-known  skin 
specialist  reports  "Imra  re- 
moves the  dark  facial  hair 
that  embarrasses  so  many 
women— quickly,  safely,  ef- 
fectively. This  is  a  real  boon 
to  women  who  want  an  in- 
expensive, easy-to-use,  safe 
hair  removing  method." 

Removes  underarm  hair 
without  shaving.  Many 
women  have  discovered  that 


Imra  removes  underarm 
hair  without  the  nicks,  cuts 
and  scratches  razors  so 
often  leave.  You  just  smooth 
on  and  rinse  off.  Under- 
arm skin  is  left  lovely,  femi- 
nine, soft. 

Wonderful  for  legs  and 
arms,  too!  Now  you  can  get 
rid  of  the  dark  masculine 
look  of  excess  hair  wherever 
it  may  be  ...  on  your  legs, 
or  arms,  on  delicate  under- 
arms or  your  face! 

There  is-  no  safer   hair  re- 
mover known  to  medical 
science.  Now 
available  at  all 
drug  counters. 


After  Imra:  Protruding 
hair  end  now'  removed, 
rounded  ...  no  coarse 
bristly   look ! 


plus  tax 
Special  Offer:  Get  beautiful  $5  value 
DuBarry  Fifth  Avenue  Pearls.  Send  an 
Imra  boxtop  (75^  or  $1.25  size)  plus  $1  to  Imra,  Dept.  C,  312  Fifth  Ave.,  New  York,  N.  Y. 


Only 


75 


t 


POEMS  WANTED 

fl  ^J^mIWI  W  For  musical  setting  .  .  .  Send 
■  ^s^  ■■■■  ■  ■  ■  ^"^  your  Poems  today  for  FREE 
EXAMINATION.     Any     subject.     Immediate    consideration. 

CROWN  MUSIC  CO.,  1476-L  Broadway,  New  York  36,  N.Y. 


FREE  BIG  5x7 


\#1 


7„  ENLARGEMENT 
WITH    ORDER 
WALLET 

SIZE 

PRINTS  HANDLING 


V&»  x  3H"  photos  for  classmates, 
loved  ones — for  job  and  college  ap- 
plications. Send  picture  or  neff.  25 
for  $1.25  plus  Free  5"  x  7"  (60  for 
|  $2.25).  Satisfaction  guaranteed. 

ROY  PHOTO  SERVICE 

Dept.  95,  GPO  Box  644,  N.  Y.  1 ,  N.  Y. 


s 


EW  BABY  SHOES 


AT   HOME   .    .    . 

Weekly   possible 
Write  TINY-TOT  CO.,  Gallipolis  32 


No  Canvassing.   $40 


Ohio 


LORDS 
PRAYER 


K.OOLD  PLATED 


A     beautiful     item     of    jewelry 

that     your     friends     will     admire. 

Lord's     Prayer      artfully      engraved 

on  lovely  Gold  Pin  that  you  will  always  wear  with 

great  pride  ond  devotion. 


YOU  GET   FREE  BIBLE 


With  every  order  You  Get  World's 
tiniest  BIBLE  224  pages,  only  1  x  P/4 
in.  clearly  printed— you'll  carry  it 
wherever  you  go— it  will  amaze 
your  friends  ORDER  NOW  -  Only 
SI  each  Pin  &  FREE  BIBLE  (tax  incl). 
Give  a  set  to  a  loved  one  or  friend 
—they  will  bless  you!  3  sett  only 
$2.75.  MONEY-BACK  GUARANTEE! 
WORLO  WIDE,   1,    OSSINING.  New  York 


...Train  At  Home  For 
A  WELL  PAID  CAREER 


PRACTICAL  NURSING 


Help  fill  the  urgent  need  for  Trained  Practical 
Nurses.  If  you  are  between  18  and  55,  it's  easy  to  ■ 
train  at  home  in  your  spare  time  to  take yonr  place  in  this  respect- 
ed calling.  Many  earn  while  learning.  High  school  is  not  needed. 
Nurse 'e  equipment  included.  Mail  this  ad  today  for  FREb  r  acts. 
Wayne  School  Of  Practical  Nursing, 
2525  Sheffield  Ave.,   Desk  E.87,  Chicago  14,  III. 
Please  rush  FREE  FACTS  and  Sample  Lesson  Pages. 

NAME 


-Full  Address. 


FRECKLES 


Your  face  need  not  con- 
tinue to  be  marred  by 
freckles.  For  genera- 
tions and  in  65  coun- 
tries Stillman's  Freckle 
Cream  has  been  bring- 
ing happiness  to  freck- 
led folks.  A  radiant, 
smooth,  clear  skin  is  a 
great  charm.  If  your 
skin  is  spotted  with  freckles,  if  it  has  been 
made  drab,  dull  or  rough  by  sun  or  wind, 
we  suggest  you  try  Stillman's  Freckle 
Cream.  Girls,  women  and  men  buy  it 
wherever  toilet  goods  are  sold. 

Write  for  free  1956  booklet, 
"BRUSH  UP  ON  BEAUTY" 

THE  STILLMAN  CO. 

DEPT.  57.  AURORA.  ILLINOIS 


81 


before  ht 
comes  home... 
splash  yourself 
with  freshness 


#  .*.  ■■#  # 


COlOGNf 


tt^ttQaniiffiffijjffiffiffijej. 


deodorant 
COLOGNE  with 

APRIL  SHOWERS 

fragrance 

Wrap  yourself  in  the  fragrant  cloud  that 
says,  "Darling!  You're  home!".  .  .  that's 
April  Showers  Cologne.  It  contains  a  new 
kind  of  deodorant  that  eliminates  body 
odors,  leaving  only  the  springtime  scent  of 
April  Showers.  Use  it  tip  to  toe  . .  .  such 


T     heavenly  luxury  for  only 

R 


69« 

82  CHERAMYp  erfumer 


Hearts  Grow  Fonder 


(Continued  from  page  59) 
happened  at  the  office  today.    He  wanted 
someone    he    could    love    as    an    equal — a 
partner   he    could    team    up    with    in    the 
Battle  of  Manhattan. 

"Together,"  Lynne  explains,  "we  do  the 
best  we  can.  It  isn't  he  alone  doing  the 
best  he  can,  while  I  just  do  the  house- 
work. It's  both  of  us.  We  each  have  our 
own  existence,  and  each  respects  the 
other's  privacy.  This  doesn't  mean  that 
we're  less  in  love.  It  merely  means  that 
we  don't  intend  to  engulf  each  other." 

If  this  sounds  suspiciously  like  living 
apart,  a  visit  to  the  Taylors  in  their  com- 
fortable Manhattan  apartment  offers  quick 
reassurance.  Obviously,  no  two  people 
ever  got  more  enjoyment  out  of  "living 
apart" — together.  Although  you've  come 
to  get  Lynne's  story — and  although  Tim 
withdraws  to  a  far  corner  of  the  living 
room  determined  not  to  interfere — it  isn't 
possible.  They're  so  much  a  team,  you 
can't  talk  to  one  without  involving  the 
other.  And  Lynne's  story  wouldn't  be  com- 
plete,  not   without  Tim's   story,   too    .    .   . 

"I'm  a  native  New  Yorker,"  Lynne  starts 
out,  waiting  for  the  customary  exclamation 
of  surprise.  It  doesn't  come.  "But  I  was 
born  right  here  in  New  York,"  she  con- 
tinues, and  looks  to  Tim  for  help.  And 
that's  how  the  other  half  of  the  team  gets 
involved.  He  knows,  from  his  own  ex- 
perience, that  a  surprisingly  large  per- 
centage of  actors  were  born  "right  here  in 
New  York,"  and  each  thinks  it's  unusual. 

And  so,  like  a  lot  of  other  actresses, 
Lynne  was  born  in  New  York  City.  Her 
father,  Louis  L.  Rogers,  is  a  stock  broker. 
She  studied  art  at  the  High  School  of 
Music  and  Art,  developing  a  talent  which 
was  to  come  in  handy  for  her  role  as  the 
artist  in  The  Guiding  Light.  "When  the 
script  called  for  Dick  Grant  to  sit  for  his 
portrait,"  she  recalls,  "everyone  was  sur- 
prised that  I  could  actually  fill  in  the 
canvas  myself." 

At  Queens  College,  however,  the  artist 
decided  to  become  an  actress.  She  ma- 
jored in  English,  speech  and  dramatics, 
managed  to  spend  two  summer  holidays 
doing  stock  at  the  Provincetown  Play- 
house. She  also  managed  to  graduate 
magna  cum  laude.  At  Columbia  Uni- 
versity, Lynne  started  to  work  for  her 
master's  degree  in  Drama  and  Compara- 
tive Dramatic  Literature.  Transferring  to 
the  Yale  Drama  School,  she  was  about  to 
return  for  the  second  year  when  she 
landed  the  role  of  Myriam  in  Light  Of  The 
World,  based  on  the  New  Testament. 

"After  a  year,  the  show  was  replaced  by 
a  quiz  program."  Lynne  says  it  with  a 
dead-pan  expression — it's  the  only  com- 
ment she  can  think  of.  "That  was  1950," 
she  remembers.  "Then  CBS  assigned  me 
to  be  an  actress-at-large  on  the  Stork 
Club  show.  I  was  to  be  there  just  in  case 
— you  know,  in  case  I  were  needed  or 
some  of  the  guests  didn't  show  up." 

A  year  later,  CBS  hired  Tim  to  be  a 
writer  on  the  same  show.  "They  warned 
me,"  he  says,  "it  would  be  a  short  job — 
only  three  or  four  weeks.  I  was  to  do  a 
preliminary  interview  of  the  guests,  then 
draw  up  a  list  of  ten  questions.  These  were 
copied  on  little  pieces  of  paper  and  pasted, 
to  coffee  pots  for  Sherman  Billingsley  to 
read   off." 

And  that's  where  they  met — in  the 
famed  Cub  Room  of  the  Stork  Club.  Not 
the  real  Cub  Room,  of  course,  but  the  tele- 
vision studio  designed  to  look  like  it.  "We 
said  hello,"  Lynne  recalls.  "Both  of  us 
were  left-handed — so  there  we  were,  with 
things   in  common."     That  was  the   start. 

They  had   time   to   discover   even   more 


things  in  common,  for  Tim  lasted  thirteen 
weeks — a  record  for  writers  on  the  show. 
Then  Igor  Cassini,  who  conducts  a  similar 
television  program,  hired  Tim  to  be  a 
writer  for  him.  Tim,  in  turn,  hired  Lynne 
to  be  "his  Girl  Friday."  They  worked  to- 
gether until  the  summer,  when  Cassini 
and  Tim  hied  themselves  to  Europe  to 
interview  assorted  celebrities. 

In  a  way,  Lynne  didn't  mind.  Proximity 
had  made  them  very  close,  but  Tim 
seemed  shy  of  marriage.  She  knew  that 
the  cure  was  to  "give  him  a  lot  of  free- 
dom, make  him  miss  you."  It  worked,  too. 
Tim  now  confesses  that  he  "wrote  more  to 
her"  than  he  ever  wrote  for  the  show. 

Professionally,  however,  that  summer 
was  "a  bleak  period"  for  Lynne.  But  then, 
after  weeks  of  discouragement  and  mak- 
ing the  rounds,  it  happened. 

In  this  case,  because  Kermit  Bloomgar- 
den  was  the  producer,  Lynne  thought  she 
was  trying  out  for  a  role  in  his  stage  pro- 
duction of  "Autumn  Garden."  Instead,  she 
found  that  she  was  auditioning  for  the 
road  company  of  "Death  of  a  Salesman." 

But  that  was  the  same  afternoon  Tim's 
boat  arrived  from  Europe.  He  was  "really 
mad"  when  Lynne  wasn't  at  the  dock  to 
meet  him.  They  got  together,  however. 
Explanations  were  made.  And  they  had  a 
proper  reunion.  But  they  also  had  a  pro- 
longed farewell.  Lynne's  contract  called 
for  one  year  with  "Death  of  a  Salesman." 

By  the  time  Lynne  returned  from  her 
tour,  Tim  was  ready  with  his  proposal. 
Only  they  couldn't  get  married.  They 
didn't  have  an  apartment.  And  that's  how 
they  happened  to  have  a  June  wedding. 
It  wasn't  sentiment.  Once  again,  it  was 
circumstance.  It  took  them  six  months  to 
find  a  place  to  live. 

As  it  turned  out,  however,  it  was  well 
worth  the  wait.  Their  apartment  is  only 
two-and-a-half  rooms,  but  that's  more 
than  most  New  Yorkers  dare  hope  for  of 
heaven  on  earth.  It's  in  an  old,  white 
brownstone  off  the  lower  part  of  Fifth 
Avenue.  The  rooms  are  enormous,  with 
twelve-foot-high  ceilings.  There  are  fire- 
places in  both  the  living  room  and  bed- 
room. And  what's  more— "Eugene  O'Neill 
once  lived  here." 

Ihe  wedding  should  have  been  romantic. 
They  drove  out  to  Greenwich,  Connecticut, 
a  lovely  town  where  Tim  had  once  worked 
as  a  reporter.  But  the  Justice  of  the 
Peace  was  nervous.  He  had  only  married 
three  couples  before.  Well,  the  bride  and 
groom  were  nervous,  too.  They  had  never 
been  married  before  at  all. 

Here  Lynne  was,  promising  to  "honor 
and  obey" — as  though  her  life  were  her 
own  to  do  with  as  she  pleased.  She  was  an 
actress.  It  was  enough  being  at  the  beck 
and  call  of  producers  without  having  a 
husband  to  obey  as  well.  How  could  she 
possibly  handle  two  careers? 

And  Tim,  reaching  in  his  pocket  for  the 
wedding  ring,  felt  that  he  was  giving  up 
his  freedom  forever.  With  this  ring,  he 
would  be  chained  to  those  two-and-a-half 
rooms — in  sickness  and  in  health,  till  death 
do  us  part. 

It  wasn't  death  that  parted  them.  Once 
again,  it  was  circumstance.  They  were 
married  on  June  7,  1953.  On  June  30th, 
Lynne  had  to  leave  for  the  Lakeside  The- 
ater in  Putnam,  Connecticut,  where  she 
had  a  ten-week  contract. 

The  Taylors  can  tell  the  story  now, 
laughing  at  their  early  doubts.  Lynne  has 
proven  she  can  handle  two  careers  with 
equal  success — both  as  Lynne  Rogers  on 
television  and  as  Mrs.  Tim  Taylor  in  pri- 
vate life.  As  for  Tim,  sitting  beside  her 
on  the  sofa — he's  been  in  those  same  two- 


and-a-half  rooms  for  three  years  now, 
without  once  looking  for  the  nearest  exit. 

"And  we  owe  it  all  to  that  ten-week 
separation,"  Lynne  says.  "It  was  the  best 
thing  that  could  have  happened  to  us." 

"It  gave  us  time  to  think  things  over," 
Tim  adds.  "I  know  I'd  be  there  in  the 
apartment.  I'd  be  conscious  of  things — a 
perfume  bottle,  a  summer  dress  among  the 
clothes  in  the  closet — things  I  took  for 
granted.  Then,  all  of  a  sudden,  I'd  realize: 
Someone   else   lives   here,   too." 

Lynne  describes  the^e  ten  weeks  as 
'sort  of  a  limbo  period."  It  gave  her  a 
chance  to  "go  into  marriage  kind  of  gradu- 
ally." For  example,  she  suddenly  realized 
that  a  married  woman  doesn't  go  out  with 
other  men.  She  wasn't  forbidden  to  do  so. 
It  just  came  over  her  that  she  didn't  want 
to.  It  had  more  meaning,  she  found,  seeing 
the  one  man  she  was  married  to  rather 
than  the  many  men  who  were  just  friends. 

It  was  the  same  with  cooking.  Suddenly, 
she  realized  that  she  wanted  to  cook  for 
Tim.  She  started  collecting  cook  books. 
"And  once  she  made  her  mind  up  to  it," 
Tim  admits,  "she  became  good  at  it." 

As  a  team,  they  also  found  that  they 
could  help  each  other.  Tim,  who  peri- 
odically makes  a  round  of  the  night  clubs 
for  his  weekly  column,  declares  that  Lynne 
is  "better  than  a  tape  recorder." 

Tim,  in  turn,  helps  Lynne  by  cueing  her 
in  her  parts.  But,  more  important,  he  has 
built  up  her  self-confidence.  It  seems  in- 
credible that  anyone  as  pretty  as  Lynne, 
or  as  talented,  could  ever  have  suffered 
from  insecurity.  Her  face  is  heart-shaped, 
with  the  look  of  a  happy  Valentine.  Her 
auburn  hair  fairly  cries  out  for  color  tele- 
vision. But  the  forehead!  It's  dangerously 
high  for  an  ingenue.  Not  that  being  bright 
is  any  handicap  for  an  actress,  but  Lynne 
looks  every  bit  as  intelligent  as  she  is. 

Tim  has  made  her  understand  that 
youth  alone  has  been  her  handicap.  She 
has  a  poise  and  intelligence  far  beyond  her 
years.  Just  right  for  a  leading  lady,  but 
not  for  an  ingenue.  And  one  day,  Tim 
predicts,  Lynne  will  graduate  into  stardom. 

A  glance  at  the  record  proves  that  Tim 
is  right.  In  her  five  seasons  of  stock,  Lynne 
has  played  such  unusual  roles  as  the  hero- 
ines in  "Bell,  Book  and  Candle,"  "A 
Streetcar  Named  Desire,"  "Dark  of  the 
Moon,"  and  "The  Sea  Gull."  And  last 
January,  when  she  became  Marie  Wallace 
on  The  Guiding  Light,  she  was  taking  on 
the  difficult  role  of  a  young  artist  who  sud- 
denly found  herself  going  blind. 

But,  most  of  all,  they  have  helped  each 
other  by  "just  being  there."  "Home,"  says 
Tim,  "is  where  you  can  be  who  you  are." 
But  it's  one  thing  being  yourself,  it's  quite 
another  being  by  yourself.  It's  nice  to  have 
someone  to  make  plans  with.  Speaking  of 
plans,   Lynne   says:    "We'd   like   to   go   to 

I  Europe  and  we'd  like  to  have  a  family." 
It's  also  nice  to  have  someone  to  play 
chess  with.    And,  when  you  glance  at  the 
chess   set,   sitting   on   top   of   a  handsome 
mosaic  table,  Lynne  suddenly  laughs.  That 
table  was  almost  the  occasion  of  their  one 
and  only  fight. 
"That's   my    contribution   to   the    do-it- 
yourself  craze,"  Lynne  explains.  "I  made 
it  all  myself,  and  gave  it  to  Tim  last  Christ- 
mas as  a  present.  But,  because  I  wanted  it 
to  be  a  surprise,  I  did  all  the  work  at  a 
friend's  house.    Every  day,  I'd  be  out  for 
a  couple  of  hours,  trying  to  get  it  done  in 
e.   And  then  I  got  sore.   He  wasn't  the 
east   bit   concerned    about    where    I    was 
"isappearing  each  day.    Not  once  did  he 
sk  me  where  I'd  been!" 
But  Tim  was  merely  sticking  to  the  team 
'e,  to  respect  each  other's  privacy.    As 
ynne    now    understands:     "This    doesn't 
ean  that  we're  less  in  love."  It  has  made 
them  more  in  love  than  ever. 


rffiden* 


big  new  catalog 


world-wide  fashion 
and  home  guide 


1064  glamour  pages  in  Aldens 

FALL-WINTER    CATALOG 

ABSOLUTELY  FREE— this  exciting  biggest-ever  Aldens  catalog! 
Glamour  news  from  the  world's  fashion  centers  . . .  over  400  pages  of 
the  very  new  from  Paris,  Rome,  the  Near  and  Far  East,  New  York, 
Hollywood!  More  than  250  pages  in  brilliant,  lifelike  color. 
Feast  your  eyes  on  hundreds  more  pages  of  the  "best  things  in 
life"  for  your  home  ...  for  leisure  . . .  for  the  youngsters  . . . 
for  the  men— from  this  magnificent  complete  "Store  in  a  Book"! 
Thrifty  prices,  guaranteed  quality,  easy  terms  and  "armchair  shopping". 
Never  before  such  an  offer— send  for  your  FREE  copy  NOW! 

MAIL    THIS     COUPON    TODAY/ , 

Paste  to  post  card  of  insert  in  envelope 
j      ALDENS,  Dept.  525  Box  8340A,  Chicago  80,  Illinois 

I     Please  rush  my  FREE  Aldens  1957  FALL-WINTER  CATALOG 


Print  NAME 


I       Print  ADDRESS  or  R.F.D.  NO. 


a:. 


Print  POST  OFFICE  OR  TOWN 


STATE 


helping  us  take  orders  for  magazine 
subscriptions.   Write  today  for   FREE 
information: 
MACFADDEN  PUBLICATIONS,   205   E.  42  St.,   New  York    17,   N.   Y. 


MAKE  BIG  MONEY 


lovelier  hair  do's 


Authentic    techniques    of 
HAIR        famous  hair  stylists.  Com- 
plete with  styling  charts 
STYLING         (°°    hair    stylirnj    illustra-    ■ 

tions)  and  over  100  STA- 

'  Kll  RITE      Cushion      Tip 

—"WORLD'S  SMOOTHEST 

39  4  BOBBY    PIN".    At    beauty 

counters   or   write   direct. 

STA-RITE  GINNIE  LOU,  INC.       Shelbyville,  Illinois 


Make  Money  Like  MAGIC! 


Tleev 


MMic-iusm* 


NAME-IN-SILVER  TALL  CHRISTMAS  CARDS 
you^o5  °n  Just  65 'Boxes! 


\Newest  idea  TALL  Christmas  Cards. 

\Rich,  radiant  colors  glow  like  magic; 

\  sell  like  magic.  You  make  $1  on  every 

\box!  New  and  different  SOUTHERN 

\BEATJTY  21-Card  assortment ;  Reli- 

igious  Cards;  Photo-Personals;  3-IN-l 

Ensembles.    Name- Imprinted  Christ- 

rnrFI    *  masCards  25  for  $1.  You  makeup  to]50% 

rKCCi     •  cash  profit.    Ca9h  bonus  extra!    Fast  24- 

EXCLUSIVE    '  hour  service.  No  experience  needed.  Get 

c"";..!^ «„«!.    i  sample  Presentation  Book  FREE,  pins 

rtSsampIes      ;  assortments  on  approval.  Sendcoopon! 

f  BCe'l      •'SOUTHERN  GREETINGS,  Dept.  L-31  * 
r  K  E  E    i        •  478  N.  Hollywood  St..  Memphis  1 2  ,Tenn.  . 

$1.95  Southern   -O  i  ! 

Btlle  Doll^ggjffL:  Nam' • 

given  tor  i^p§|§|p&  ^ ■"""" • 

promptn««/^/irfjK\£ciii/*St.>i« J 


B0TT0MS-UP 


SET 0NLV  50c 


Salt  & 
Pepper 

Pert  and  saucy,  and  just  cute  enough  to  shock  your 
maiden  aunt.  Shapely  figure  leans  over  the  barrel  with 
her  head  resting  on  top.  Use  her  adorable,  bewitching 
form  as  a  handle,  while  one  barrel  pours  salt,  the 
other  pours  pepper.  Richly  hand-painted  ceramic.  Each 
barrel   holds  a  liberal   supply  of  salt  and  pepper. 

SATISFACTION    GUARANTEED    OR    MONEY    BACK 
You'll    enjoy    using-    these    clever    conversation    pieces. 
Not    more   than    2    Sets    to    a   customer   at    this    bargain 
price.    Add  only   20C   to  each    Set  ordered  for  postage 
and   handling.   No  C.O.D.'s   please. 
Dohhs  Products  Co..  1255  So.  Wabash  Ave..  Oepl.  745.  Chicago  5,  Bl. 


SKINNY  LEGS! 


%& 


Try  this  new  amazing  scien- 
tific home  method  to  ADD 
SHAPELY  CURVES  at  ankles, 
calves,  thighs,  knees,  hips! 

pnpp  As  a  friend-winning 
■  If  li  mt  limited     time     in  tro- 

ll LL  ductory  offer  (sold 
■■™™  for  $2) 
Skinny  legs  rob  the  rest  of  your  fig- 
ure of  attractiveness!  Now  at  last 
you  too  can  try  to  help  yourself  im- 
prove underdeveloped  legs  due  to 
normal  causes,  and  fill  out  any  part 
of  your  legs  you  wish,  or  your  legs 
all  over  as  many  women  have  by 
following  this  new  scientific  meth- 
od. Well  known  authority  on  legs 
with  vears  of  experience  offers  you 
this  tested  and  proven  scientific 
course— only  15  minutes  a  day— in 
the  privacy  of  your  home!  Contains 
step-by-step  illustrations  of  the 
easv  SCIENTIFIC  LEG  technique 
with  simple  instructions:  gaining 
shapely,  stronger  legs,  improving 
skin   color  and   circulation   of   legs. 

Limited  Time    FREE   OFFER 
For  the  "Shapely  Legs  Home  Meth- 
od"   mailed    in    plain   wrapper,    just 
send  name   and  address. 

MODERN  METHODS 

Dept.    SI--9808W 
296    Broadway,    New   York    7,    N.Y. 


83 


TV-Radio 


This  Gorgeous  Yearbook 
Contains  All  The  Favorite 

TV-Radio  Stars 

It's  terrific.  It's  the  big  TV-RADIO  book-of- 
the-year.  It's  the  new  1956  TV-Radio  Annual. 
This  glamorous  new  edition  tops  them  all.  It's 
just  bursting  with  pictures,  facts  and  stories 
about  the  lives  of  all  your  favorite  entertainers. 
You'll  refer  to  this  book  over  and  over  again. 
Get  your  copy  before  they  are  all  gone.  Here 
are  some  of  the  features  contained  in  this 
marvelous  yearbook. 

THE  YEAR'S  ROUNDUP— News  .  .  .  gossip  .  .  . 
chit-chat  about  your  favorite  entertainers.  Your 
eyes  will  pop  at  some  of  these  inside  stories.  Lots 
of  pictures,   too. 

NEW  SHOWS  OF  THE  YEAR— The  stars  that 
made  these  shows  click:  The  $64,000  Question 
(Hal  March)   •  Ford  Star  Jubilee   (Bing  Crosby) 

•  The  Woolworth  Hour  (Percy  Faith)  •  Mickey 
Mouse   Club    (Roy   Williams   and   Jimmie   Dodd) 

•  The  Chevy  Show  (Bob  Hope,  Dinah  Shore)  • 
The  Big  Surprise  (Jack  Bany)  •  You'll  Never 
Get  Rich   (Phil  Silvers). 

PERSONALITIES  OF  THE  YEAR— Full-page  pic- 
tures, plus  the  exciting  stories  behind  Cathy  and 
Bob  Crosby  •  Patti  Page  •  Jackie  Gleason  • 
James  Arness,  William  Conrad  •  Christine, 
Phyllis  and  Dorothy  McGuire. 

WHO'S  WHO  IN  TV  COMEDY— True-life  stories 
of  Bob  Cummings  and  Rosemary  DeCamp  •  Ann 
Davis,  Dwayne  Hickman  •  Peg  Lynch  and  Alan 
Bunce  •  Vanessa  Brown  and  Barry  Nelson  • 
Leonid  Kinskey,  Margaret  Irving,  Pat  Breslin 
and  Jackie  Cooper  •  Spring  Byington,  Harry 
Morgan,  Verna  Felton,  Dean  Miller  and  Frances 
Rafferty  •  George  Gobel  and  Peggy  King  •  Sid 
Caesar  and  Nanette  Fabray. 

WHO'S    WHO    IN    MUSIC-VARIETY— Liberace    • 

Julius  LaRosa  •  Johnny  Desmond  •  Tommy  and 
Jimmy  Dorsey  •  June  Taylor  Dancers  •  Frankie 
Laine  •   Florian  ZaBach. 

ALWAYS  TOPS— Arthur  Godfrey  •  Jack  Webb  . 
Eve  Arden  •  Ernie  Ford  •  Ralph  Edwards  •  Dave 
Garroway  •  Arlene  Francis  •  Steve  Allen  •  Perry 
Como  •  Garry  Moore  •  Don  McNeill  •  Burr  Till- 
strom  and  Fran  Allison  •  Ed  Sullivan  •  Milton 
Berle  •  Martha  Raye  •  Robert  Q.  Lewis  •  Lucille 
Ball  and  Desi  Arnaz  •  Art  Linkletter  •  Jimmy 
Durante  •  Ozzie,  Harriet,  David  and  Ricky 
Nelson. 

PLUS — Pictures  and  biographies  from  the  most 
beloved  daytime  dramas  on  radio  and  TV. 

ONLY  50c 
MAIL  COUPON  TODAY! 


,  TV-RADIO  MIRROR  Dept.  RM-856 

,  205  E.  42  St..  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 

I  Send    me    postpaid,    a    copy    of    TV-RADIO 
I  ANNUAL  1956.  I  enclose  50c. 


84 


J  Name 

*   Please   Print 

I  Address.  .. 


I  City State. 


Forever  Sparkling 


(Continued  from  page  28) 
Alice  in  her  arms  so  she  could  reach  the 
microphone." 

When  Alice  was  eight,  she  started  tak- 
ing tap,  piano  and  "personality  singing" 
lessons  from  Mrs.  Clarise  Powell  in 
Kilgore.  Each  week,  Alice  sang  two  or 
three  times  in  and  around  town  in  Lions, 
Elks,  and  Chambers  of  Commerce  func- 
tions. When  she  was  ten,  she  sang  her  first 
professional  song — material  from  the  com- 
ing movie  attraction  in  Mr.  Crim's  local 
theater.  When  she  was  twelve  she  did  a 
weekly  radio  show  in  Henderson  for  a 
used-car  dealer.  (Salary:  $5.00.)  During 
the  war,  the  station  put  on  a  monthly  bond 
rally:  Listeners  bought  bonds,  phoning  in 
requests  for  Alice's  songs. 

Alice  herself  reports  she  had  no  hobbies 
as  a  child.  When  she  was  in  high  school, 
her  father  bought  her  a  horse.  Her  friends 
rode  frequently — but  Alice  rode  only  about 
once  a  month.  ("And  was  I  sore  after  that 
ride,"  she  says.)  The  Wyches  also  had  a 
small  bass-stocked  lake  on  their  prop- 
erty. Alice's  friends  fished  the  lake — but 
Alice  found  too  much  enjoyment  from  her 
singing  to  go  riding  or  to  join  the  fish-frys. 

"In  high  school,"  says  her  mother,  "Alice 
went  from  school  to  school  doing  bond 
shows.  She  also  played  Army  camp  shows 
at  near-by  Henderson.  Her  teacher  was 
her  accompanist.  We  had  to  drive  twenty 
miles  to  pick  her  up,  twenty  miles  to  Hen- 
derson. In  all,  we  drove  about  one  hun- 
dred miles,  twice  a  week,  for  these  shows. 
In  the  process,  we  wore  out  two  cars." 

Alice  and  her  husband,  Bob  Waterman, 
met  in  high  school.  Bob  came  to  Kilgore 
to  play  college  football.  The  college  had  no 
dramatics  class,  so  Bob  attended  the  one 
at  the  local  high  school.  "He  used  to  get 
up  in  front  of  the  microphone,"  says  Mrs. 
Wyche,  "and  improvise. 

"Later,  Bob  wrote  the  school  play.  Alice, 
then  about  fifteen,  was  the  star.  The  super- 
intendent of  schools  said  it  was  the  clever- 
est thing  he  had  ever  seen.  After  hearing 
Alice  sing  for  the  first  time,  Bob  said, 
'You  know,  someday  I'm  going  to  marry 
that  girl.'  But  before  he  did,  he  went  into 
the  paratroops. 

"While  in  her  teens,"  Mrs.  Wyche  con- 
tinues, "Alice's  favorite  radio  program 
was  Showtime,  originating  from  Dallas. 
It  was  sponsored  by  Interstate  Theaters, 
and  they  had  many  big  Hollywood  names 


as  guests.  'Wouldn't  it  be  wonderful,' 
Alice  used  to  say,  'if  I  could  be  on  that 
show  someday.'  Then,  when  she  was  six- 
teen and  seventeen,  Alice  did  two  big 
camp  shows  at  Fannin.  The  shows  were  so 
successful  that  the  company  toured  all 
of  the  big  cities  of  Texas  selling  bonds.  In 
Dallas,  Mr.  Freeman,  the  booking  agent 
for  Interstate  Theater,  heard  her — and 
signed  her  for  Showtime. 

"Alice  called  me,  so  excited  that  she 
forgot  to  tell  me  Mr.  Freeman  had  changed 
her  name — no  one  could  spell  or  pro- 
nounce Wyche.  So  I  first  heard  Alice  in- 
troduced on  radio  as  'Alice  Lon' — Lon 
being  her  middle  name.  Aii  day  long,  my 
phone  was  busy  with  friends  wanting  to 
know  if  Alice  Lon  was  Alice  Wyche!" 

From  radio  station  WSAA  and  Showtime 
in  Dallas,  Alice  went  to  Chicago,  where 
she  sang  on  Don  McNeill's  Breakfast  Club. 

Then  Bob  Waterman  came  home  on  fur- 
lough, Alice  flew  back  to  meet  him  in 
Dallas  and  they  were  married.  After  an- 
other short  tour  for  Interstate  Theaters, 
Alice  and  Bob  moved  to  Pasadena,  Cali- 
fornia, where  their  three  sons  were  born. 

Mrs.  Wyche  takes  up  the  story:  "In 
Pasadena,  my  husband  and  I  have  some 
friends,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Albert  Roman,  with 
whom  we  grew  up  in  Texas.  Alice  says, 
'Next  to  you,  Mother,  I  love  Ruth.'  They 
went  with  her  to  the  hospital  for  Bobby's 
birth,  and  later  took  her  home  with  them 
for  the  first  six  weeks. 

"Clint  and  Larry  were  born  in  short 
order,  after  Bobby.  They  came  so  close 
together  that  Alice  gave  up  her  singing, 
except  for  occasional  guest  spots. 

"When  Larry  was  born,"  Mrs.  Wyche 
continues,  "I  came  out  to  be  with  Alice. 
At  that  time  Mr.  Welk  had  his  local 
weekly  TV  show.  We  were  watching  an- 
other show  one  night  when  Alice  said,  'I'm 
going  to  turn  on  an  orchestra  that  I  think 
is  just  grand,'  and  she  dialed  the  Lawrence 
Welk  program.  She  watched  with  a  wistful 
look  in  her  eyes — reminding  me  of  the 
Sundays  she  used  to  sit  entranced  by 
Showtime." 

Then  a  friend  of  Alice's  told  her  that 
Welk  was  looking  for  a  singer.  "I  took  a 
picture  and  a  record  of  mine  to  his  office," 
says  Alice.  "Mr.  Welk  called  me  two  days 
later,  asking  that  I  come  and  sing  for  him." 

Lawrence  liked  Alice  and  he  told  her  so. 
In   fact,    he    told    her    that   he    liked    her 


Her  Stolen  Moment  of  Sin . . . 

I  HE   radio   program    "My   True   Story"    gilds   no 

lilies.  It  deals  frankly  with  the  emotions  of  real 

people — their  loves  and   passions,   their  hates 

and  fears.    Listening  to  tnese  stories  you  may 

recognize  some  of  the  problems  that  are 

holding  happiness  back  from  you.   So  be 

sure  to  listen.   Every  story  is  taken  right 

from  the  files  of  True  Story  Magazine. 


TUNE  IN  EVERY  MORNING  TO 


My  True  Story 

AMERICAN  BROADCASTING  STATIONS 

She  had  trapped  him  and  would  pay  for  if. 
Read  "HATE  MARRIAGE"  in  August  TRUE 
STORY   magazine,  at   newsstands   now. 


very  much.  Her  hopes  were  aroused. 

A  few  weeks  later,  Alice  and  Bob  went 
down  to  the  Aragon  Ballroom,  where 
Lawrence  was  appearing  nightly.  Law- 
rence saw  Alice  in  the  audience  and  asked 
her  up  on  the  bandstand  to  sing.  She  sang 
one  song  and  the  audience  response  was 
overwhelming.  "Well,"  he  said,  "the  people 
certainly  like  you.  We'll  have  to  do  some- 
thing about  this  .  .  ."  It  was  then  that  he 
decided  to  let  the  viewers  and  listeners 
choose  his  Champagne  Lady. 

Along  with  several  other  girls,  Alice 
sang  on  Welk's  TV  show.  The  viewers 
were  invited  to  vote  for  their  choice,  and 
Alice's  mail  began  to  mount  up  immedi- 
ately. On  July  3,  1953,  Lawrence  an- 
nounced that  Alice  Lon  was  to  be  the 
Welk  Band's  Champagne  Lady. 

Even  with  the  tremendously  heavy 
schedule  of  five  nightly  appearances  at  the 
Aragon  Ballroom,  plus  the  Saturday  TV 
show,  Alice  is  happier  today  than  she's 
ever  been,  because  she  is  working  at  the 
job  she  loves  so  well — singing. 

Alice's  mother  says,  in  describing  the 
children:  "Just  as  Betty  Jo  and  Alice  were 
different,  Alice's  three  boys  are  as  differ- 
ent as  white,  black  and  grey.  Bobby,  eight, 
is  the  quiet  one.  He  is  particular  and,  when 
he  dresses,  everything  must  match  from 
head  to  toe.  When  he  goes  to  school,  he 
leaves  the  house  looking  like  a  band  box 
and  he  comes  back  the  same  way. 

"Clint,  six,  is  the  easygoing  one.  He  is 
polite  and  agreeable  and,  when  you  ask 
him  to  do  something,  he  does  it.  He  is 
sweet.  But,  at  the  same  time,  he  has  a 
temper — though,  when  he  flares  up,  he 
gets  over  his  pique  in  a  second.  You  dress 
Clint  as  neatly  as  Bobby.  But,  before  he 
leaves  the  house,  his  shirttail  is  out.  And, 
when  he  comes  home,  he  always  has  sand 
in  his  shoes  and  holes  in  his  jeans. 

"Larry,  five,  is  very  easy  to  please  when 
it  comes  to  clothes.  You  can  hang  any- 
thing on  him  and  it's  all  right.  But  he's  the 
one  who  likes  to  fight.  He  can  hardly  pass 
one  of  the  others  without  hitting  him.  Or, 
if  they  pass  him,  he  will  put  his  foot  out 
and  try  to  trip  them  up.  But  have  you  ever 
known  boys  who  were   any  different?" 

"They  have  boys'  interests,"  Alice  smiles. 
"They  love  baseball,  and  they  go  to  Cub 
Scout  meetings,  and  they  eat  peanut- 
butter  sandwiches  until  I  think  they  are 
going  to  turn  into  one.  On  my  nights  off, 
our  favorite  pastime  is  to  pop  popcorn  and 
watch  TV  together.  In  fact,  they'd  rather 
watch  TV  than  anything.  They  come  in 
from  school,  plop  down  in  front  of  the 
television  set  and  are  there  for  the  night. 
I  think  they've  developed  an  interest  in 
music  from  it.  Bobby  has  a  set  of  drums 
which  he  uses  to  punctuate  everything  on 
TV  from  gun  shots  to  music  by  Welk." 

Though  the  boys'  personalities  are  dif- 
ferent, they  all  love  to  sing  and  are  in  that 
respect  just  like  Alice  and  her  sister  Betty 
Jo  were.  Mrs.  Wyche  says,  "The  boys  have 
all  been  able  to  carry  a  tune  ever  since 
they  were  youngsters.  Before  she  started 
work,  Alice  used  to  teach  them  songs. 
They  stood  up  beside  the  piano  and  sang 
before  they  could  even  talk  plainly.  To- 
day, for  example,  they  sing  'When  the  Red 
Red  Robin  Comes  Bob-bob-bobbin'  Along' 
in  trio.  Larry,  the  youngest,  learned  it  first 
and  he  makes  me  think  of  Alice  when  she 
was  his  age.  He  hears  a  song  once  and  he 
can  sing  it  through  perfectly." 

Today,  Lawrence  Welk's  Champagne 
Lady  encourages  her  own  peanut-butter 
trio  with  their  own  musical  interests.  She 
tries  to  point  out  to  them  that,  if  they 
work  at  the  things  they  like  to  do  best, 
they'll  be  happy  all  their  lives.  Alice  Lon 
knows  this  to  be  true,  for  the  Champagne 
Lady  is  happiest  of  all  when  she  sings. 
The  sparkle's  always  there,  but  it  really 
bubbles  over  when  she  sings. 


^afi^fflfl       i  WM*Ma 

Vi  t*.  iH^^H 

BB  ''.♦■■  . 

iH^I  -  •'"■ 

M$~> 

Waimm 

:|^HHpi 

Hk   J 

*  jJBR 

7 

:%i. 

UTOL 


new  miracle  antibiotic  pimple  medication 


...PUTS  YOUR  BEST  FACE  FORWARD! 

The  world  takes  you  at  face  value.  So  it's 
important  for  you  to  use  UTOL,  the  mir- 
acle antibiotic  skin  cream  that  is  the  fast- 
est known  remedy  for  externally  caused 
skin  blemishes. 

Hides  as  it  heals! 

Here's  the  ONLY  antibiotic  skin  cream ! 
UTOL,  with  the  magic  of  Tyrothricin, 
kills  the  skin  bacteria  that  usually  cause 
skin  blemishes.  Field  tests  prove -UTOL 
dries  up  common  skin  eruptions  and  clears 
skin  in  as  little  as  10  days ! 


ONLY  $100 

*UT0L  is  standard 
treatment  for 
Contact  Dermatitis. 


MONEY  BACK  GUARANTEE— Your  money  re- 
funded if  UTOL  does  not  satisfy  completely ! 

Sold  At  All  Drugstores 
A  PRODUCT  OF  McKESSON  &  ROBBINS 


*h»l 


M  OTH  E  RS 


Tour  child's  photo  may  qualify  for  a 
FEEE  CAMEEA— also  earn  $350  if 
used  for  advertising.  BIG  DEMAND 
for  photos  of  infants  to  18  yrs.  Send 
ONE  small  photo  for  approval.  Print 
child's  and  mother's  name,  address 
on  back.  Returned  two  weeks.  NO 
OBLIGATION. 

ADVERTISERS   PHOTOS 

6000-HV  Sunset, Holly  wood28, Calif. 


KILL  THE  HAIR  ROOT 


•/ 


Destroy  unwanted  hair  PERMANENTLY.  Use  con-  i 
veniently  at  home.  When  you  have  read  our  f 
instruction  book  carefully  and  learned  to  use  J 
the  new  Mahler  Epilotor  safely  and  efficiently, 
then  you  can  remove  unwanted  hair  FOREVER. 
MONEY-BACK  GUARANTEE  (Our  76th  Year). 


^SeND  SCT0DAY  FOR   BOOKLET 


MAHLER'S.  INC..       Dept  606-K        PROVIDENCE  15.  R. 


SHEETS,  TOASTERS, 
TOWELS,  MIX  ERS,etc 

GIVEN  TO  YOU  FREE! 

Hundreds  of  famous,  na- 
tionally advertised  products 
to  choose  from — furniture, 
rugs,  lamps,  slip  covers,  sil- 
verware, china,  draperies. 
You  get  $50.00  —  $100.00 
and  more  in  merchandise 
just  by  being  Secretary  of  a 
Popular  Club  you  help  your 
friends  form.  It's  easy !  It's 
fun  !  Nothing  to  sell,  noth- 
ing to  buy.  Write  today. 

Popular  Club  Plan,  DepV  J917,  Lynbrook.  N.  Y.    | 
Send  Big  FREE  276-Page  FULL-COLOR  Catalog  j 

Name ~ _,  I 


Address.. 
City 


..State.. 


DEHTAL  HURSING 


Send  for  FRll  BOOK! 


'repare  now  for  a  well-paid  career. 
Learn  chairside  and  reception  tech- 
nique, X-ray,  lab,  personality  develop- 
ment. Simplified,  personal  instruction.  If 
you  are  between  17  and  50,  you  can  begin 
in  spare  time  at  home  and  shorten  class- 
work.  Write  now  for  FREE  booklet. 

WAYNE   SCHOOL      Lab.  l-ii 

2521  Sheffield  Ave.,  Chicago  14,  III. 


Y   FREE   KIT 

puts  you  In  a  fine  business  selling  magazine 
subscriptions  in  your  neighborhood.  It's  easy 
to  do.  No  experience  necessary.  You  don't 
spend  a  penny  of  your  money  now  or  ever. 
We  supply  everything  you  need  FREE.  There 
are  thousands  of  customers  everywhere.  Act 
now  and  you'll  be  earning  extra  dollars  regu- 
larly. Rush  name  and  address  for  FREE 
money-making  information:  Soles  Agents,  TV 
Radio  Mirror.  205  E.  42  Street,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 


Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 
New  Way  Without  Surgery 

Science  Finds  Healing  Substance  That 
Relieves  Pain — Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 

For  the  first  time  science  has  found  a 
new  healing  substance  with  the  astonishing 
ability  to  shrink  hemorrhoids  and  to  relieve 
pain  —  without  surgery. 

In  case  after  case,  while  gently  relieving 
pain,  actual  reduction  (shrinkage)  took 
place. 

Most  amazing  of  all  —  results  were  so 
thorough  that  sufferers  made  astonishing 
statements  like  "Piles  have  ceased  to  be  a 
problem!" 

The  secret  is  a  new  healing  substance 
(Bio-Dyne*)  — discovery  of  a  world-famous 
research  institute. 

This  substance  is  now  available  in  sup- 
pository or  ointment  form  under  the  name 
Preparation  H*  Ask  for  it  at  all  drug  count- 
ers—money back  guarantee.    *Beg.  u.  S.  Pat.  off. 


85 


<»$./ 


86 


XjLJL  C/ 

Love 

and 


0&HK& 


passing  you  by? 

DON'T  RUIN  YOUR  CHANCES 

because  of  unsightly  teeth.  Give  your 
teeth  the  Hollywood  glamour  look  .  .  . 
with  Iodent  No.  2.  Smoke  Smudge  and 
Surface  Stains  disappear  after  only 
a  few  brushings.  See  your  teeth  glow 
with  radiant  whiteness.  Iodent  No.  2  is 
made  by  a  Dentist.  It  is  guaranteed 
to  be  safe  and  effective  by  Good 
Housekeeping,  Get  a  tube  today  .  .  . 
and  start  smiling  with  confidence. 

Remember  too  ...  your 
dentist  knows  that  diet 
and  clean  teeth  are 
the  best  decay 
Stoppers. 


,1 000 


PICTURES  OF 
MOVIE  &  T.V.  STARS 


B.1J  J  Scene  from  latest  Picture  & 
im5  Movie  Stars  on  gum  stambs 
W».>.  LUCKIT  STARS  G  P  0  Box  738  NX  1,  M.Y.  Dept-  T-3 


YOU'D  NEVER  KNOW  I  HAP 

IllEHH 

As  hundreds  of  thousands  of  users 
have  learned,  Siroil  tends  to  re- 
move psoriasis    crusts  and 
scales  on  outer  layer   of  skin. 
Light  applications  help  control 
recurring  lesions.  Siroil  doesn't 
stain    clothing    or    bed    linens. 
Offered    on    two  -  weeks  •  satisfac- 
tion -  or  -  money  -  refunded  basis. 
23  years  of  successful  results. 
Write  for  free  booklet. 
*S.  D.  means  Skin  Disorder. 


SIROIL 


DRUG  STORES 


I 


SIROIL  LABORATORIES,  INC. 

Dept.   M-83.      Santa  Monica,  Calif. 
Please  send  me  your  free  booklet  on  Psoriasis. 


Please  Print 


.J 


Model  Girl 


(Continued  from  page  40) 
contests    herself.    Her    brother    Victor,    a 
bank  teller  in  Paterson,  New  Jersey,  had 
been    her    sponsor    from    the    time    she 
entered  high  school. 

Marion,  the  second  of  two  children,  was 
born  Marion  Bull  in  Stillwater,  New  York. 
When  she  was  grammar-school  age,  her 
family  lived  in  Flushing,  Long  Island. 
When  she  entered  high  school,  they  were 
in  Paterson,  where  her  father  worked  at 
the  Wright  Aircraft  Plant  until  his  death 
seven  years  ago.  "We  had  a  fabulous 
home — lots  of  fun,"  says  Marion.  "We  were 
always  doing  things  together.  Toboggan- 
ing, picknicking,  the  usual  things — except 
when  Victor  entered  me  in  contests." 

Marion  was  photogenic,  so  there  were 
any  number  of  good  portraits  and  snap- 
shots of  her  around  the  house.  Victor, 
when  the  mood  moved  him  (and  that  was 
often),  mailed  Marion's  picture  into  a 
contest.  She  was  a  freshman  in  high 
school  when  she  was  chosen  Miss  Pater- 
son. And,  when  Victor  was  drafted,  he 
entered  her  in  a  beauty  contest  at  Fort 
Dix.  She  won  again. 

"I  didn't  take  it  seriously,"  Marion  says. 
"No  one  has  ever  convinced  me  that  I'm 
beautiful.  And  then  everyone  thought  I 
should  become  a  model,  and  that  struck 
me  as  an  empty,  think-nothing  life.  I  was 
taking  a  commercial  course  in  high  school 
and  anxious  to  prove  that  I  could  make 
good  in  the  business  world." 

In  the  meantime,  back  at  the  ranch 
(Paterson  East  Side  High  School),  she 
fell  in  love  with  Raymond  James  Jaeggi. 
They  were  both  in  the  same  class,  but 
didn't  meet  until  halfway  through  their 
senior  year — which  is  hardly  credible,  for 
Marion  was  probably  the  best-known  girl 
in  school  and  Ray  was  a  five-letter  man, 
a  star  in  baseball,  basketball  and  football. 
He  was  handsome  and  stood  six-three. 
Everyone  knew  him  but  Marion.  Marion 
hated  sports. 

"When  I  first  saw  Ray,  he  was  hanging 
around  another  girl's  neck.  In  a  locket,  of 
course.  I  couldn't  believe  there  was  any- 
one so  handsome  in  school.  But,  of  course, 
I'd  never  gone  to  a  sports  event." 

There  was  a  New  Year's  Eve  party 
coming  up  and  Marion  already  was  dated, 
so  she  did  the  next  best  thing — which  was 
to  get  Ray  a  blind  date  with  her  friend. 

"Well,  Ray's  the  kind  every  girl  dreams 
of  marrying.  When  I  saw  him,  I  cut  my 
friend  right  out.  I  don't  suppose  she'll  ever 
forgive  be,  but  I  was  in  love." 

After  that,  it  wasn't  so  easy.  She  had  to 
go  to  ball  games,  which  bored  her  to 
death — and,  when  it  came  to  ball  games, 
Ray  knew  no  season.  In  the  fall,  it  was 
football;  winter,  basketball;  spring  and 
summer,  baseball.  And  golf.  And  tennis. 
And  Marion  got  so  bored. 

"If  there  were  a  dance  or  party  coming 
up,"  Marion  recalls,  "I'd  have  to  wait 
until  the  very  last  minute  for  him  to  ask 
me.  I'd  tell  the  other  boys  I  was  going 
away  for  the  weekend,  or  that  I  had  to 
work,  just  to  keep  the  evening  open  for 
Ray.  Then,  at  the  last  minute,  he  would 
call  and  ask  me  to  go  with  him." 

Proving  she  had  brains  as  well  as 
beauty,  Marion  had  Ray  so  steadily  en- 
gaged in  a  few  months  that  their  class 
yearbook  predicted  an  early  marriage. 
They  were,  also,  chosen  Venus  and  Adonis 
of  the  class.  But  Marion  was  still  to  be 
tested.  She  had  to  sit  on  the  first-base 
line   and  cheer  Ray  through  Princeton. 

"She  duped  me,"  Ray  says.  "She  didn't 
miss  a  game  after  we  started  dating.  Bet- 
ter than  four  years,  she  sat  on  the  side- 
line and  cheered  me  on.  But,  since  the  day 


of  our  marriage,  she  has  refused  to  go 
within  a  mile  of  any  ball  park." 

Ray  was  a  fine  athlete  and  turned  down 
an  offer  from  a  major  league  team  for 
Marion's  sake.  There  was  too  much  risk 
of  being  crippled  for  life,  and  he  didn't 
think  it  fair  to  her.  However,  he  didn't 
agree  with  Marion  that  there  was  any 
hazard  in  wearing  a  bathing  suit  for  a 
beauty  contest. 

The  problem  came  up  in  the  second  year 
of  their  marriage.  Marion  had  made  good 
in  commercial  work.  She  was  head  book- 
keeper at  a  Paterson  firm,  when  Victor 
entered  her  picture  in  a  contest  for  Miss 
TV  of  New  Jersey.  Both  Ray  and  Victor 
thought  that  she  should  win. 

"It  was  different  from  other  contests," 
she  recalls.  "It  meant  so  much  to  the  other 
girls,  for  the  winner  was  assured  of  a 
model's  career  through  the  Conover 
Agency.  They  were  all  pushing  so  hard, 
and  their  mothers  were  following  them 
around  with  make-up  kits.  I  wanted  to 
get  out  of  the  whole  thing." 

Marion's  own  mother  had  never  par- 
ticipated in  Victor's  plans  for  Marion. 
She  remained  strictly  neutral  when  the 
crisis  over  the  bathing  suit  came  up. 
Marion  had  passed  the  preliminaries  of  the 
Miss  TV  contest  and  was  told  to  report 
for  the  second  phase — in  a  bathing  suit. 
Instead,  she  tried  to  quit.  But  Victor  and 
Ray  overruled  her  objections. 

"Of  course,  they  didn't  have  to  get  up 
there  and  be  stared  at,"  she  observes. 
"And  I  never  felt  qualified  to  be  a  model. 
I'd  never  had  lessons  in  movement.  I  didn't 
know  how  to  walk  or  what  to  do  when 
I  got  to  the  center  of  the  stage.  Most  of 
all,  I  just  didn't  like  the  idea  of  being 
looked  over  in  a  bathing  suit."  But  they 
had  talked  her  into  it.  "I  remember  that, 
when  I  got  out  on  the  stage,  everything 
stood  still.  My  heart  and  breath  stopped, 
but  somehow  I  was  smiling.  What  I  was 
smiling  about,  I'll  never  know." 

And  she  won.  And  for  the  next  couple 
of  years  was  just  as  sorry  she  had.  "Jobs 
didn't  come  easy,  and  being  married  was 
a  handicap.  At  least,  it  seemed  that  way 
to  me.  When  I  literally  held  my  hands 
behind  my  back,  I'd  get  a  job.  When  the 
ring  was  out  where  it  could  be  seen,  I  was 
turned  down.  On  the  other  hand,  there 
was  security  in  being  married  and  I  wasn't 
forced  to  take  on  any  lingerie  work. 
There's  nothing  wrong  about  modeling 
lingerie.  Many  good  models  do  and  it 
pays  well.  But,  at  that  time,  I  had  res- 
ervations about  lingerie,  just  as  I  had 
about   bathing   suits." 

Kay  was  her  mainstay  during  the  two 
rough  years,  for  he  never  lost  confidence 
in  her  new  career.  And  he  was  lucky,  too, 
that  his  disposition  was  just  right  for  the 
husband  of  a  model.  He  says,  "You've 
got  to  keep  your  head.  A  husband  who 
tends  to  be  jealous  just  can't  marry  a 
model.  It  would  never  work  if  you  were 
offended  when  someone  looked  at  her." 

In  1949,  Marion  had  her  first  big  break. 
She  won  the  title  of  Queen  of  Photog- 
raphy. This  led  to  good  assignments.  She 
had  two  prosperous  years  as  a  fashion 
model  before  she  reported  to  work  on  The 
Big  Payoff  in  September  of  1951.  She 
started  on  the  show  in  its  second  week. 

"Now  I  always  do  the  'legs'  on  the  show 
— shorts,  playsuits,  bathing  suits,"  she 
smiles.  "And  I  do  lingerie,  too — but,  on 
television,  you  wear  clothes  with  it.  How- 
ever, my  attitude  has  changed,  and  that's 
the  important  thing.  Whether  it's  model- 
ing a  party  dress  or  bathing  suit,  it's  fun 
and  it's  work,  and  I  enjoy  all  of  it." 

There  was  the  day  Marion  came  down 


the  stairs  in  a  wedding  gown  and  it 
caught  on  a  nail.  She  was  supposed  to 
walk  into  the  camera  but  she  couldn't 
move  and  she  could  only  pray  that  the 
camera  would  dolly  into  her.  After  a 
moment  of  eternity,  it  did.  And  there  was 
the  afternoon  Bess  Myerson  was  inter- 
viewing a  honeymooning  bride  and  Marion 
was  modeling  a  negligee.  Bess  was  talk- 
ing about  the  negligee  as  Marion  ap- 
proached and  suddenly  Bess  lost  her  voice. 
Marion  remembers,  "I  came  onto  the  stage 
with  the  camera  on  me  and  then  I  felt 
this  weight  at  the  back  of  the  negligee. 
I  didn't  know  what  it  was  and  couldn't 
turn  to  see.  Well,  the  train  had  caught  on 
a  potted  plant  and  I  was  dragging  it  across 
the  stage  with  me.  Bess  was  trying  to 
contain  herself — it  must  have  been  a  hila- 
rious picture.  But  I  kept  coming  and  the 
drag  was  such  that  it  pulled  a  couple  of 
buttons  open  on  the  negligee.  Bess  lost 
her  composure  and  burst  into  laughter.  Of 
course,  Bess  has  such  a  wonderful  laugh 
that  it  was  almost  worth  it." 

When  you're  high-strung  and  conscien- 
tious, as  Marion  is,  you  are  often  tied  in 
knots  by  the  end  of  the  day.  "Luckily,  I 
always  find  Ray  with  a  smile.  He  has  a 
wonderful  disposition  and  the  sun  always 
shines  in  ,our  house." 

Their  home  is  in  Ridgewood,  New 
Jersey,  on  a  corner  lot  that  contains  a 
white  convertible  and  a  white-and-aqua 
Cape  Cod  house.  Inside,  their  home  is 
very,  very  pink.  "We've  been  here  a  year. 
People  we  bought  it  from  had  painted 
their  walls  rose,  and  we  thought  that 
would  be  the  first  thing  we'd  change.  But 
we  lived  in  it  and  liked  it,  and  so  decided 
to  just  lighten  it  to  pink." 

Ray  does  the  painting  and  wall-paper- 
ing, skills  he  has  learned  since  marriage. 
Marion  still  giggles  when  she  recalls  his 
first  papering  job.  "We  forgot  to  hang  the 
line  to  make  sure  the  first  roll  hung 
straight.  Well,  everything  slanted  and 
you  felt  as  if  the  house  were  listing." 

While  they  haven't  changed  the  basic 
color  scheme  in  their  new  home,  they 
have  made  some  expert  improvements  in 
the  living  room.  "It's  not  a  large  room  and 
there  was  a  mantel  over  the  fireplace  that 
shortened  it  still  more,"  Marion  explains. 
"We  took  off  the  mantel  and  put  a  large 
mirror  on  the  wall.  Then  there  was  a 
small  window  over  the  sofa,  and  that  was 
made  into  a  picture-sized  panel  window." 

The  carpeting  in  the  living  and  dining 
rooms  is  soft  aqua.  Traditional  furniture 
in  the  living  room  is  mahogany  with  a 
bleached  driftwood  finish.  The  upholstered 
chairs  are  champagne  pink  and  the  semi- 
circular sofa  is  in  aqua.  In  one  corner  of 
the  room  is  Marion's  latest  and  most 
cherished  possession,  a  baby  grand  piano 
in  antique  white.  "I've  had  my  heart  set 
on  a  baby  grand  for  years.  I  play  only 
popular  music,  but  I  enjoy  it.  I  took  les- 
sons until  I  was  thirteen  and,  of  course, 
I'm  sorry  now  that  I  quit." 

The  dining  room  is  off  the  living  room, 
and  the  furniture  is  traditional,  in  brown 
mahogany  with  shiny  brass  candelabra 
and  a  brass  tea-cart  for  contrast.  There  is 
a  bay  window  with  broad  and  high  white 
drapes.  "We  eat  in  frequently,  but  I'm  not 
a  courageous  cook.  The  only  thing  I've 
ever  baked  is  an  apple  pie.  Anyway,  I 
usually  come  home  with  Ray  and  we're 
both  starved,  so  we  eat  broiled  meats  that 
I  can  make  quickly." 

On  the  other  side  of  the  kitchen  is  the 
den,  in  blue,  and  here  is  the  television  set 
and  Marion's  sewing  machine.  She  has 
always  made  clothes.  Her  mother  is  a 
seamstress    and    Marion    is    well    taught. 

"I'm  grateful  that  sports  are  on  TV," 
she  says,  "for  I  couldn't  have  Ray  going 
without  me,  and  I'd  be  bored  if  I  went 
with  him.  I  remember  that  when  he  began 


taking  a  night  off  to  bowl,  I  nearly  tore  up 
the  house.  But,  while  he  watches  a  ball 
game  on  TV,  I  can  be  with  him — and  get 
my  sewing  done." 

Their  bedroom  is  across  from  the  den 
and  boasts  a  four-poster  bed  spread  with 
antique  taffeta  in  aqua  to  match  the 
drapes.  There  are  oval  rugs  on  the  floor, 
and  these  rugs  have  odd  experiences. 
"First  time  Marion  put  the  rugs  in  the 
washing  machine,"  Ray  recalls,  "we  heard 
a  terrible  racket.  I  ran  down  to  the  cellar 
and  there  was  the  machine  walking  right 
across  the  cellar.  Well,  I  unplugged  the 
machine  and  it  stopped.  The  service  man 
called  the  next  day  and  told  Marion  that, 
if  she  stopped  washing  rugs  in  the  ma- 
chine, the  machine  would  stop  walking. 
Well,  women  never  pay  any  attention  to 
service  men.  So  my  job  now,  when  I  hear 
the  racket,  is  to  get  to  the  washing  ma- 
chine before  it  gets  out  the  door  and  runs 
away  with  our  carpets." 

Iheir  home  is  a  one-and-a-half  Cape 
Cod,  and  the  room  upstairs  is  finished  off 
for  guests  with  rock  maple  furniture, 
yellow  wall  paper,  and  rugs  and  spreads 
in  white.  There  is  a  small  bathroom  de- 
luxely  finished  with  wall-to-wall  carpet- 
ing. Drawers  are  kept  ready  with  pajamas 
and  towels  for  unexpected  guests,  and 
regular  visitors  have  permanent  tooth- 
brushes tagged  with  their  names. 

Marion  and  Ray  like  to  entertain,  and 
have  had  a  few  big  parties  since  moving 
into  their  new  home.  Marion  says  she  is 
changing  her  attitude  about  being  a  host- 
ess. "I've  been  doing  all  the  work  myself 
— the  cleaning,  cooking,  shopping,  serving. 
I  don't  know  what  I'm  trying  to  prove. 
But,  by  the  time  twenty  guests  arrive,  I'm 
ready  to  collapse.  I'm  beginning  to  think 
I'm  foolish  to  try  to  do  it  all  by  myself." 

To  get  her  sleep,  she  passes  up  break- 
fast with  Ray.  He  is  up  at  seven-thirty  to 
go  into  Manhattan.  He  is  an  advertising 
counsellor  for  The  American  Druggist,  a 
trade  publication.  Marion  wakes  at  nine. 
For  the  sake  of  health  and  beauty,  sleep  is 
the  only  thing  she  insists  on.  She  doesn't 
worry  about  food,  and  she  exercises  only 
in  summer,  when  she  and  Ray  go  swim- 
ming every  evening.  Her  complexion  is 
such  that  she  needs  little  make-up  except 
when  she  contends  with  summer  freckles. 
Her  hair,  so  admired  by  televiewers,  is 
brown  with  auburn  highlights.  It  takes  a 
wave  easily  and  she  washes  and  sets  it 
herself,  simply,  with  six  large  curlers. 
She  weighs  one-hundred-and-ten,  stands 
five-four-and-a-half  in  flats  and  five- 
seven  in  heels.  She  uses  jewelry  sparingly 
and  favors  pearls.  In  clothes,  she  prefers 
yellow-gold  colors. 

"I'll  be  getting  dressed  to  go  out,"  she 
says,  "and  feeling  like  a  real  bouffant 
dress,  but  Ray  says  no.  He  thinks  that  I 
should  wear  something  sophisticated.  He 
says  it's  my  business  to  show  my  figure." 
Marion  smiles  tolerantly,  "Of  course,  I 
belittle  beauty.  I  mean  the  mere  part  of  it 
that  hits  the  eye.  I've  seen  so  many  beau- 
tiful girls.  I've  seen  them  come  into  a  room 
and  take  your  breath  away.  But  with 
some,  after  an  hour,  it  all  wears  off.  Where 
is  the  beauty?  Weh,  the  point  is  that  you 
must  have  a  lot  more  than  just  looks." 

It's  obvious  that  Marion  James  has  a  lot 
more  than  "just  looks." 

Fans  show  particular  interest  in  her.  A 
woman  writes  that  Marion  reminds  her  of 
a  daughter.  A  younger  woman,  in  Texas, 
feels  that  she  "knows"  Marion  well  enough 
to  ask  her  to  dinner  with  her  and  her 
husband  when  they  visit  New  York. 
Around  Studio  66,  Marion  is  known  for 
her  friendliness  and  good  cheer.  She  ra- 
diates warmth.  Her  smile  is  infectious. 
Perhaps  that  is  why,  after  five  years  on 
television,  her  beauty  has  never  worn  off. 


#250  "NIGHT  OUT" 

Film  star  style!  Lace' 
over  Chromspun  rayon 
&  acetate  taffeta.  Zip- 
back;  slim  straps.  In 
White  over  Turquoise; 
White  over  Jet  Black; 
Black  over  Petal  Pink. 
Sizes  10  to  18.  $17.98 


#258  "FRENCH  FLARE" 

Long  torso  lines  are  SO 
flattering!  Boned  bra- 
fit  bodice  plus  swishy 
mermaid  flounce  at  hem 
Shimmering  Chromspun 
rayon  &  acetate  taffeta 
in  Black,  Lime  or  Aqua. 
Sizes  10  to  18.  $11.98 


!  —  —  ——COPYRIGHT   1956 


TrCdCrick's  1430N.Cahuenga  Blvd., 
A  of  Hollywood     Hollywood  28,  Calif. 


#250.  $17.98.  Size 1st  color.. 

#258.  $11.98.  Size 1st  color.. 

□  I  enc.  payment 

Name 

Address 

;City  &  Zone. 


..2nd.. 
2nd.. 


D  Send  C.O.D.  I  enc.  $1  dep. 
for  each  item. 


_State_ 


MONEY    BACK    GUARANTEE 


...iK.  '      ■ 

iif  —because  you  lack  a 
HIGH  SCHOOL  DIPLOMA 

•  You  can  qualify  for  an  American  School 
Diploma  in  spare  time  at  home !  If  you  have 
left  school,  write  or  mail  coupon  for  FREE 
booklet  that  tells  how.  No  obligation  of  any 
kind. 
I OUR  59TH  YEAR — 

I    AMERICAN  SCHOOL,  Dept.  HC53 
|   Drexel  at  58th,  Chicago  37,  Illinois 

Please  send  FREE  High  School  booklet. 

j   Name T 

|    Address V 

I   City  &  State R 

I     Complete  Canadian  Courses  available.   Write  American 
School,  Dept.  HC53.  6083  Sherbrooke  St.  W.,  Montreal 

L 8, 


The  Edge  Of  Night 


Any  girl  can 
be  popular 

A  winning  personality  begins  with 
the  confidence  you  develop  when 
your  job  is  fun  and  your  associates 
stimulate  you.  And  the  nice  pay- 
checks you  earn  as  a  skilled  Compt- 
ometer* operator  help  a  girl  dress 
and  look  her  best  in  the  office  or 
on  dates. 

Start  an  exciting  future  today  by 
enrolling  for  a  short  easy  course  at 
your  nearby  Comptometer  School. 
Low  tuition.  Free  lifetime  place- 
ment service  throughout  the  world. 
No  age  restriction.  Day  or  night 
classes.  Mail  the  coupon  for  the 
success  story. 
'■'Comptometer  is  a  registered  trade  mark 


free 

qour 
invitation 

to  success 

k 

Comptometer 
School  Division 

FELT    &   TARRANT 
MFG.  CO. 

\§| 

mm 

Dept.  F,  1703  N.Paulina  St.,  Chicago22,  111. 


Please  send  my  free  copy  of 
"Your  Invitation  to  Success" 


Name 

Address  _ 
City 


Telephone 

High  school  class  of  19 


State _ 


FREE  SALES  KIT 

Rush  your  name  and  address  today  lor  amaz- 
ing'new  sales  kit.  It's  absolutely  FREE.  Gives 
you  startling  money-making  information.  Tells 
you  how  to  make  big  money  fast  and  often  by 
helping  us  take  orders  for  magazine  subscrip- 
tions in  your  neighborhood.  Shows  you  how  to 
do  it.  FREE  kit.  works  like  magic  to  put.  dol- 
lars in  your  pocket!  You  don't  invest  a  penny 
of  your  money  now  or  any  time.  We  supply 
everything  you  need  free.  Act  now.  No  experi- 
ence needed.  No  obligation.  Paste  this  ad  on  a 
post  card  and  mail  today  to:  Subscription 
Agents  Division,  e/o  TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East 
42  Street,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 


a  BLONDE'S 

WkMm  i 
§WM7f 


In  just  6  short  weeks— and  with  the  help  of  my  GOLDEN  BLONDE 
HAIR — I  captured  my  guy  .  .  .  for  good!  I  wouldn't  soy  it  was 
ENTIRELY  the  result  of  my  ll-minute  BLONDEX  Beauty  Bath,  but 
that  shining,  radiant  color  surely  attracted  him  and  held  him,  too. 
BLONDEX,  the  new  "lotion"  shampoo,  specially  for  blondes,  is 
made  at  .home  FRESH  as  you  need  it  Quickly  whipping  into  a 
creamy,  billowy  lather,  Blondex  instantly  removes  the  dull,  dingy 
film  that  makes  hair  dark,  old-looking,  brings  out  light,  lustrous 
shine  and  sparkling  highlights  men  love.  Get  BLONDEX  today  at 
I0£,  drug  or  department  stores. 


{Continued  from  page  66) 
a  clipped  and  forceful  way  of  talking.     A 
down-to-earth   type   of  guy,   who   doesn't 
seem   to  fit  any   popular   conception   of   a 
popular  actor. 

He  took  up  acting  when  he  was  a  stu- 
dent at  Rockhurst  College,  a  Jesuit  school 
in  Kansas  City,  Missouri.  (He  was  born  in 
Oakland,  California,  and  lived  in  San 
Francisco  for  a  while,  until  his  parents 
moved  to  Kansas  City.)  School  plays 
started  him  off,  as  school  plays  have  a 
way  of  doing  when  there  is  latent  talent. 
He  was  headed  for  the  stage,  anyhow,  but 
as  a  singer — until  he  decided  he  was  too 
impatient  ("too  lazy,"  he  says  now)  to  go 
on  practicing  and  practicing  and  to  work 
as  hard  as  a  singing  career  requires.  (Lit- 
tle did  he  reckon  then  with  a  medium 
called  television — and  the  hours  and  hours 
of  practicing  and  work  it  would  require.) 

From  amateur  performances  at  school 
to  professional  stock-company  roles,  from 
bit  parts  to  juvenile  leads,  these  were  the 
next  steps — touring  the  West  and  Midwest 
for  a  couple  of  years,  going  back  to  Kan- 
sas City  during  a  lean  period  when  he 
heard  there  was  an  audition  for  radio 
announcers.  He  got  the  job,  stayed  sev- 
eral years  doing  announcing,  disk-jockey- 
ing, then  moved  on  and  ended  up  doing 
about  the  same  thing  in  St.  Louis. 

"I  was  getting  dissatisfied  with  my  slow 
progress,"  he  recalls.  "I  was  an  actor,  not 
an  announcer,  not  a  disk  jockey,  good  as 
those  jobs  are.  I  wanted  to  get  on  the 
network.  I  needed  more  money  (even 
bleacher  seats  were  going  up  in  price) .  A 
friend,  playing  Chicago  stock,  wrote  that 
he  was  doing  quite  well  there  and  urged 
me  to  come  and  try  my  luck.  I  quit  the 
job  I  had,  got  on  a  Greyhound  bus  headed 
for  Chicago,  and  arrived  with  sixty-five 
dollars  in  my  pocket — and  no  job." 

A  kind-hearted  Greek  restaurant  own- 
er, who  had  the  coffee  shop  in  the  actors' 
hotel  where  John  was  staying,  let  him 
do  some  busboy  stints,  let  him  eat  on 
credit,  and  finally  invited  him  into  his 
home  when  even  the  cheap  room  he  had 
was  more  than  he  could  afford.  "When- 
ever I  would  protest  that  he  was  doing  too 
much  for  me— and  worry  about  repaying 
him  for  his  kindness — he  would  tell  me 
not  to  worry,  that  I  would  surely  'make 
it.'  He  was  right,  and  I  had  the  joy  of 
paying  him  back  for  everything  before  he 
died.  Everything  except  for  his  interest 
in  me  and  his  great  kindness — these  be- 
ing things  one  can't  repay  with  money." 

It  seemed  that  everyone  in  Chicago  was 
nice  to  John.  It  was  getting  started  that 
was  tough  for  a  newcomer.  Gradually, 
John  worked  his  way  in  and  met  with 
encouragement  and  kindness. 

"I  have  never  encountered  such  a  won- 
derful and  cooperative  spirit  as  in  those 
early  days  of  my  radio  career,"  he  says. 
"The  first  network  program  I  did  was  a 
dramatized  commercial  on  a  really  great 
show,  the  Vic  And  Sade  program,  which 
a  lot  of  people  will  remember  fondly. 
Then  I  got  my  first  real  dramatic  role — I 
played  a  policeman  on  that  one,  a  rookie." 

During  the  war,  John  was  in  the  Army 
as  a  field  artillery  communications  ser- 
geant. That  took  out  almost  four  years 
from  his  career,  most  of  them  spent  in 
Europe.  And  radio  had  moved,  part  to 
California  and  part  to  New  York,  with 
only  a  small  percentage  remaining  in  Chi- 
cago. He  stayed  East,  and  then  job 
followed  job.  In  1947,  he  became  Perry 
Mason  on  radio,  continuing  the  role  until 
the  show  went  off  the  air  last  December. 

It  was  a  good  part.  He  liked  it.  Perry 
Mason  wasn't  a  cop,  but  he  was  a  lawyer, 
interested  in  many  of  the  same  problems 


an+ollTT 


that  now  face  Lieut.  Karr.  (Incidentally, 
John  hasn't  entirely  deserted  radio.  He 
still  plays  Tom  Wells  in  Ma  Perkins.) 

"I  particularly  like  being  Mike  Karr," 
he  says.  "Mike  is  a  policeman  who  does 
more  than  just  apprehend  criminals.  He 
works  to  prevent  crime,  especially  juven- 
ile crime.  He  is  interested  in  the  re- 
habilitation of  the  ^  law -breaker,  especially 
the  young  kid  who  gets  all  fouled  up  with 
the  law. 

"All  of  this  appeals  very  strongly  to  me, 
personally,  because  I  feel  that  these  delin- 
quent kids  need  understanding  and  help 
before  it  is  too  late  to  do  much  for  them." 

When  Larkin  was  named  for  the  lead- 
ing role  in  The  Edge  Of  Night,  some- 
one summed  it  up:  "Larkin  has  the 
strongest  face  in  the  business,  and  that's 
the  kind  of  guy  Karr  is.  And  he  has  the 
human  touch,  and  that's  also  Karr." 

"TV  is  much  more  demanding,  physi- 
cally and  mentally,  than  radio,"  John  ad- 
mits. "We're  on  the  set  from  early 
morning  until  the  show  goes  off  the  air  at 
5  in  the  afternoon  (Eastern  Daylight 
Time) .  Technically,  however,  there  are 
great  rewards  in  television  for  the  actor, 
as  well  as  for  the  audience.  I'm  not 
bound  to  a  stationary  microphone,  as  I 
was  in  radio.  I  like  that  freedom  of 
movement  and  the  greater  freedom  of  ex- 
pression." 

In  spite  of  putting  on  a  half -hour  show, 
live,  five  times  a  week,  with  a  complete 
new  script  every  day,  there  is  little  ten- 
sion. Teal  Ames,  the  pretty  actress  who 
plays  Sara,  the  girl  Lieutenant  Karr  loves, 
says  she  doesn't  know  how  she  would 
have  got  through  the  first  few  weeks 
without  his  help.  "Whenever  I  got  scared, 
John  would  signal  to  me,  in  some  subtle 
way,  that  I  was  doing  just  great.  It  kept 
up  my  morale." 

The  rest  of  the  cast  are  "old  pros,"  too: 
Don  Hastings,  who  plays  Sara's  brother, 
Jack  Lane;  Mark  Rydell,  who  is  Walt, 
Jack's  bad  influence  (Mark's  latest  movie 
is  "Crime  in  the  Streets") ;  Ian  Martin, 
who  is  Detective  Sergeant  Charlie  Brooks; 
Maxine  Stuart  as  Grace  O'Keefe,  the  pub- 
lic stenographer;  Patty  O'Neill,  who  is 
Jack's  girl,  Betty  Jean;  and  Betty  Garde, 
who  is  Mrs.  Lane. 

Larkin's  bachelor  status  prompted  a  girl 
at  a  party  to  refer  to  him  as  "that  good- 
looking,  popular,  man-about-town."  John 
laughed  that  one  off.  "I  couldn't  be  a  man- 
about-town  if  I  wanted  to.  Not  with  a 
working  schedule  like  mine.  I  don't  dare 
stay  up  late,  except  on  a  Friday  or  Satur- 
day night,  when  there's  no  show  next  day. 
I  try  to  see  all  the  Broadway  shows,  and 
the  good  movies.  Although  I  had  been  on 
some  of  the  big  TV  dramatic  shows — 
Studio  One,  Big  Story,  and  others — I  had 
never  realized  that  a  daily  TV  program 
takes  you  into  a  different  world  of  work, 
alters  your  life,  dedicates  you  .  .  ." 

Entertaining,  at  his  apartment,  is  fairly 
casual  and  informal.  If  the  weather  is 
cool  enough,  a  guest  sits  near  the  big 
kitchen  fireplace  and  watches  the  host  use 
it  to  broil  steaks  and  chops  or  hamburgers, 
bake  potatoes,  or  concoct  man-size  cas- 
seroles. The  apartment  is  in  a  remodeled, 
120-year-old  house,  in  New  York's  Green- 
wich Village,  a  house  rumored  to  have 
been  occupied  at  one  time  by  Edgar  Allan 
Poe.  Background  music  for  entertaining 
is  usually  some  choice  pieces  from  John's 
collection  of  old  jazz  recordings. 

All  this,  however,  is  only  for  the  non- 
baseball  days.  Any  other  time,  when  the 
team  is  on  home  grounds  during  the  sea- 
son, look  for  Larkin  at  the  Yankee  Sta- 
dium. In  the  bleachers,  of  course,  with 
the  rest  of  those  seasonal  fan-atics! 


The  Littlest  Cinderella 


(Continued  from  page  49) 
into  a  curl  on  top  of  her  head,  two  brand- 
new  teeth  sparkling  in  a  mouth  which 
never  stopped  smiling.  Her  shoes  were 
soft  pink  booties  which  exactly  matched 
her  dress.  That  choice  had  been  a  hard 
one,  since  Jeanne  had  to  choose  from 
some  forty  pairs  of  the  soft  little  woolies 
made  and  sent  to  Jeanne,  from  every 
part  of  the  country,  by  loyal  listeners  to 
Queen  For  A  Day! 

As  photographers  set  up  their  equip- 
ment to  record  Mary  Ann's  debut,  the 
baby  sat  on  her  mother's  lap  and  jangled 
the  charms  on  Jeanne's  bracelet.  "Isn't 
it  wonderful?"  Jeanne  beamed.  "She  has 
discovered  my  charm  bracelet."  Then  she 
laughed.  "Isn't  it  ridiculous?"  she  said. 
"I  keep  telling  myself  that  there  must  be 
lots  of  babies  just  as  smart  as  Mary  Ann. 
But  I  don't  really  believe  it." 

Queen  Mary  Ann  is,  indeed,  a  most 
accomplished  little  girl,  for  her  months. 
There  are  those  two  new  teeth,  for  in- 
stance. She  has  already  given  up  her 
formula,  and  is  reaching  eagerly  for  the 
cup.  She  has  mastered  the  delicate  art 
of  sitting  up,  and  practices  it  determinedly. 

"She  can  even  dance,"  Jeanne  boasted. 
And  Mary  Ann's  daddy,  U.C.L.A.  Theater 
Arts  Instructor  Jack  Morrison,  appeared 
on  the  scene  right  then  to  help  her  prove 
it.  A  little  help  from  the  hi-fi,  and  Mary 
Ann  was  whirling  around  the  room  in 
her  Daddy's  arms,  swaying  to  the  music! 

She  sleeps  until  a  civilized  hour  in  the 
mornings,  then  breakfasts — in  her  high 
chair — with  her  parents.  When  Jeanne 
goes  off  to  her  work  on  the  show  and 
Jack  to  his  classes  at  the  University, 
Mary  Ann  is  whisked  into  a  bath  by  a 
doting  maid,  Margaret,  and  then  into  her 
nap  in  an  extra  bassinet  in  the  dining 
room  just  off  the  kitchen. 

Jeanne  gets  home  by  two  (except  on 
Mondays,  when  Jack  Bailey  does  two 
Queen  shows).  By  this  time,  Mary  Ann 
is  awake  and  eager  for  her  buggy  ride, 
propelled  by  Morrimie,  up  and  down  the 
curving,  tree-shaded  hill  roads  in  the 
neighborhood.  "We've  gotten  to  know 
all  the  houses  where  there  are  little  chil- 
dren," Jeanne  says,  "even  the  ones  where 
there  are  going  to  be  little  children.  Our 
car  pool  for  kindergarten  and  elementary 
school   is  already   very   well   organized!" 

Mary  Ann  even  dines  with  the  family — 
or,  rather,  plays  happily  in  a  bassinet 
pulled  up  to  the  candlelit  table  between 
the  two  chairs  occupied  by  her  mother 
and  father.  Jeanne  wouldn't  think  of 
putting  the  baby  to  bed  until  she  could 
have  a  little  playtime  with  her  daddy. 
Consequently — shudder,  all  you  tradi- 
tional child-rearers — Mary  Ann  goes  to 
bed  at  eight  o'clock!  Mary  Ann  is  healthy 
and  happy.  That's  what  counts.  Jeanne 
didn't  study  for  her  master's  degree  in 
child  psychology  for  nothing. 

It  was  while  Jeanne  was  taking  classes 
at  U.C.L.A.,  several  years  ago,  that  she 
irst  met  Jack  Morrison.  It  amuses  them 
both  that,  even  before  she  met  Jack,  she 
got  to  know  his  two  children  by  a  former 
marriage,  Patience  and  Charley,  when 
she  was  a  student  observer  at  the  U.C.L.A. 
elementary  school.  It  was  -a  happy  coin- 
cidence. When  Jeanne  and  Jack  decided 
to  be  married,  the  children  were  not  only 
willing  but  eager  to  accept  Jeanne  as  a 
second  mother. 

Patience  and  Charlie  spend  weekends 
with  the  Morrisons,  and  longer  periods 
during  school  holidays.  "Mary  Ann  looks 
just  like  them,"  Jeanne  says,  "and  she 
adores  them  both." 

Patience,  now  a  very  grown-up  high- 
schooler,    looks,    Jeanne    says,    "just    like 


Grace  Kelly."  Charlie,  at  9,  is  still  "pretty 
much  all  boy  a  la  Mark  Twain,"  and  very 
rewarding  company — "a  student  of  life,  a 
real  comic  spirit."  Jeanne  smiles  con- 
tentedly, as  she  adds,  "Weekends  are  the 
best — for  all  of  us." 

Many  women  juggling  household,  job, 
and  children  would  concede  that  Jeanne 
Cagney  has  worked  a  modern  miracle  in 
arranging  what  is  quite  a  complicated  life 
with  a  minimum  of  tension  and  strain. 
This  happy  fact,  she  explains,  is  not  acci- 
dent.    She  planned  it  that  way. 

It  was  no  coincidence  that  Jeanne  mar- 
ried Jack  Morrison  the  same  week  in 
June,  1953,  that  she  signed  her  contract 
with  Queen  For  A  Day.  She  says  there 
was  never  any  question  in  her  mind — if 
it  came  to  a  choice  between  home  and 
family  and  continuing  her  career — which 
would  win  out.  Her  best  energies  would 
go  to  her  husband,  their  home,  and  the 
children  they  hoped  to  have.  That  is 
what  marriage  meant — and  still  means — to 
her.  Nevertheless,  a  complete  renuncia- 
tion of  the  career  as  an  actress  she  had 
pursued  so  successfully  and  happily  was — 
in  prospect— not  exactly  painless. 

The  solution  came  with  Jack  Bailey's 
offer  to  Jeanne  to  join  the  Queen  For  A 
Day  family.  Relatively  speaking,  her 
work  requires  a  minimum  of  time  away 
from  home.  She  can  be  a  real  wife  and 
a  good  mother  and  still  enjoy  the  emo- 
tional rewards  of  working  in  show  busi- 
ness— she  could  be  a  part-time  actress, 
and  still,  in  all  the  essentials,  a  full-time 
wife  and  mother. 

It  has  worked  out  beautifully,  "because 
we  planned  it,"  Jeanne  believes.  "It  was 
the  first  time  in  my  life,"  she  says  now, 
"that  I  ever  went  in  for  long-range  plan- 
ning. It's  second  nature  for  Jack.  Al- 
ready, in  his  extracurricular  role  as  vice- 
president  of  the  American  Educational 
Theater  Association,  he  is  planning  next 
year's  convention!  I  had  always  been  a 
spur-of-the-moment   girl   myself." 

Even  today,  in  so  far  as  her  work  is 
concerned,  Jeanne  worries  no  farther 
ahead  than  tomorrow,  how  the  next  show 
will  come  out.  She  gives  her  best  to  her 
work,  loves  the  show  and  all  the  people 
on  it.  She  was  delighted  when — since  she 
was  "about  two  minutes  pregnant"  and 
felt  obligated  to  tell  Jack  Bailey  the 
truth,  so  that  he  could  start  auditioning 
for  a  successor — he  told  her  to  relax,  to 
go  on  with  her  daily  appearances  so  long 
as  her  doctor  thought  it  was  safe  for  her. 
"A  lot  of  our  candidates  are  pregnant,"  he 
told  her  fondly.  "You'll  look  just  like 
one  of  the  tribe." 

As  a  result,  her  pregnancy  became — 
like  Lucille  Ball's  the  year  before— an 
issue  of  national  concern.  Letters  of  ad- 
vice came  from  all  over.  And  gifts — the 
bootees,  little  sweaters,  dresses  hand- 
embroidered  with  loving  care. 

Just  before  Mary  Ann  was  born,  the 
Queens'  Club  gave  Jeanne  a  shower: 
"Everything  in  yellow.  They  had  found 
out,  somehow,  that  that  was  what  I 
wanted  for  the  nursery." 

Mary  Ann  smiled  at  this,  as  though  to 
say  that  she,  too,  is  grateful  that  she  has 
so  many,  many  friends — even  if,  so  far, 
she  hasn't  exactly  met  them.  And  then 
she  wiggled  a  bit,  and  muttered.  "Those," 
said  her  mother,  "are  get-me-out-of-this- 
fancy-dress-and-let-me-stretch  noises." 
.  The  little  Queen  disappeared  "to  get  into 
something  loose,"  with  her  mother  as 
escort.  The  hi-fi  played  on.  A  fire 
crackled  on  the  hearth. 

The  house  on  the  hill  oozed  a  magic 
spell  of  happiness  no  Cinderella  castle 
could  ever  duplicate. 


New!  Clearasil  Medication 

STARVES 
PIMPLES 

SKIN-COLORED. . .  hidespimpleswhile  itworks 


Doctors'  clinical  tests  prove  this  new-type  medi- 
cation especially  for  pimples  really  works.  In 
skin  specialists'  tests  on  202  patients,  9  out  of 
every  10  cases  were  cleared  up  or  definitely  im- 
proved while  using  clearasil. 
Amazing  starving  action,  clearasil  actu- 
ally starves  pimples  because  it  helps  remove  the 
oils  that  pimples  "feed"  on.  And  clearasil's 
antiseptic  action  stops  the  growth  of  bacteria 
that  can  cause  and  spread  pimples.  Skin-colored 
to  hide  pimples  and  end  embarrassment.  Grease- 
less,  stainless ...  pleasant  to  leave  on  day  and 
night  for  uninterrupted  medication. 
America's  largest-selling  specific  pimple 
medication... because  clearasil  has  helped  so 
many  boys,  girls  and  adults.  GUARANTEED 
to  work  for  you  as  it  did  in  doctors'  tests  or 
money  back.  Only  69<t  and  98*.  At  all  druggists- 
Get  clearasil  today. 


C>lC5Al*c\Si  y^Guaranteed  by  "^ 
-..-  wmt^w^a-x  \  Good  Housekeeping  j 

•tun  ft  ~*  Witt  X*,,,  .ut.i-V^ 

Now  also  available  in  Canada 


SONG  POEMS  WANTED 

To  be  set  to  music.    Send  your  poems   today  for  free 
examination! 

J.   CHAS.    McNEIL    (A.   B.    Master   of   Music) 
SIO-MG   So.   Alexandria  Los  Angeles   S,   Calif. 


Now  She  Shops 
"Cash  And  Carry" 

Without  Painful  Backache 

Nagging  backache,  headache,  or  muscular  aches  and 
pains  may  come  on  with  over-exertion,  emotional  up- 
sets or  day  to  day  stress  and  strain.  And  folks  who 
eat  and  drink  unwisely  sometimes  suffer  mild  bladder 
irritation. .  .with  that  restless,  uncomfortable  feeling. 

If  you  are  miserable  and  worn  out  because  of 
these  discomforts,  Doan's  Pills  often  help  by  their 
pain  relieving  action,  by  their  soothing  effect  to  ease 
bladder  irritation,  and  by  their  mild  diuretic  action 
through  the  kidneys— tending  to  increase  the  output 
of  the  15  miles  of  kidney  tubes. 

So  if  nagging  backache  makes  you  feel  dragged-out, 
miserable,  with  restless,  sleepless  nights,  don't  wait, 
try  Doan's  Pills,  get  the  same  happy  relief  millions 
have  enjoyed  for  over  60  years.  Ask  for  new,  large, 
economy  size  and  save  money.Get  Doan's  Pills  today  ! 


89 


90 


Amazing 
BONUS  OFFER! 

Luxurious 
FUR  STOLE 


Yours  tor  Selling 
Only  50  Boxes! 


Think  of  it!   You 
make  $1.25  cash  on 
every  SUPER-36 
DELUXE  Assort- 
ment. Big  box  of 
Exclusive,  quality 
Christmas  Cards  sells  fast  at  bar- 
gain price.  Easy  to  sell  50  boxes  to 
your  friends.  And  that's  all  you 
do  to  get  a  magnificent  imported 
brown-dyed  Marmot  Fur  Stole 
for  yourself  on  our  Bonus  offer ! 

EXTRA  PROFITS  COME  EASY! 

Have  extra  money  to  spare  from  the 
big  profits  you  make  on  rest  of  huge 
line.  Over  200  unusual  fast-selling  items. 
Latest  popular  SLIM  Cards  and  other 
Assortments  at  $1  up,  Personalized 
Stationery,  Gifts  and  Novelties,  low- 
priced  and  deluxe  Name-Imprinted 
Christmas  Cards.  Regal  Deluxe  Slims 
pay  you  full  $1.00  profit  per  box! 

COSTS  NOTHING  TO  GET  STARTED! 

No  experience  needed.  Just  send  cou- 
pon. You'll  get  newest  Assortments  on 
Free  Trial  with  list  of  Bargains,  Pur 
Offer,  new  Color  Catalog  and  amaz- 
ing Catalog  Shopping  Plan.  Al- 
bum of  Imprint  Samples  FREE. 
Mail  coupon  TODAY! 

MIDWEST  CARD  CO.,  DepL519-R 

1113  Washington  Ave.,  St.  Louis  1 ,  Missouri 


'FACTORY  SURPLUS} 
BARGAINS 


2S»°"S| 


MAIL  NOW  FOR  SAMPLES! 


While  They  last! 


MIDWEST  CARD  CO..  Dept.  519-R 

1113  Washington  Ave.,  St.  Louis  1,  Missouri 

Please  send  new  assortments  on  approval  with   I 
money-making  details,  Fur  Offer  and  Album/ree.    | 

I 


Name 

Address*. 
City. 


_  Zone— State.. 


BEWARED' 

Neglected  bites  from  non- 
poisonous  insects  may  cause 
dangerous  infection.  Be  wise. 
Use  OIL-O-SOL.  Soothes,  cools, 
comforts,  eases  pain. 


MAY  CAUSE 

INFECTION  AS  WELL 

AS  TORMENT 


AT  YOUR  DRUGGIST 

MOSSO'S 


OIL-O-SOL 


.^ENLARGEMENT 

*-*  of  your  Fai/ot</?e  Photo 


FROM  FAMOUS  HOLLYWOOD  FILM  STUDIOS 

Just  to  get  acquainted,  we  will 
make  you  a  beautiful  studio  qual- 
,.  ity  5  x  7  enlargement  of  any  snap- 
jS  shot,  photo  or  negative.  Be  sure 
gl\^:  •W'iT  |jU  to  include  color  of  hair,  eyes  and 
•  jQft  clothing,  and  get  our  Bargain 
^Jff?ff?\  Offer  for  having  your  enlarge- 
mat7itUWWn  ment  beautifully  hand-colored  in 
oil  and  mounted  in  a  handsome  frame.  Limit  2 
to  a  customer.  Please  enclose  10<t  to  cover  cost  of 
handling  and  mailing  each  enlargement.  Original 
returned.  We  will  pay  $100.00  for  children's  or 
adults  pictures  used  in  our  advertising.  Act  NOW1 

HOLLYWOOD  FILM  STUDIOS,  Dept.  F-256 

7021    Santa    Monica    Blvd.,    Hollywood    38,    Calif. 


Way  Right  Away! 

ANY   INSTRUMENT 

Now  It's  EASY  to  learn  ANY  INSTRUMENT— even  if 
you  don't  know  a  single  note  now.  No  boring  exercises. 
You  play  delightful  pieces  RIGHT  AWAY— from  verv  first 
lesson!  Properly— by  note.  Simple  as  A-B-C.  You  make 
amazing  progress — at  home,  in  spare  time, 
without  teacher.  Only  few  cents  per  lesson. 
900,000    STUDENTS! 

rDrr    T&f\f\U      Shows     how     easy     il     isl 
'  l»tl   BW»\     to  learn  music  this  mod-! 
em    way.     Write    for    it.     No    obligation:     no 
salesman    will    call    upon    you.    u.    S.    School 
of      Music.      Studio      208,      Port      Washington, 
N.   Y.    (58th   successful   year). 


<•& 


Where  or  When 


<>•> 


(Continued  from  page  56) 
is  something  of  a  story.  As  a  kid,  I  had 
been  a  boy  soprano  in  a  church  choir. 
When  my  voice  switched,  so  did  I — to 
piano.  Soon  I  was  playing  with  local  dance 
bands  in  and  around  San  Francisco  .  .  . 
I  lived  in  San  Mateo,  a  suburb.  Well,  to 
make  a  long  story  short,  one  day  I  heard 
that  one  of  the  radio  stations  was  audition- 
ing for  a  pianist.  I  hot-footed  it  over  to 
the  studio  only  to  find  that  what  they 
really  wanted  was  a  vocalist.  Somewhat 
to  my  own  amazement,  I  found  myself 
auditioning  for  this  spot  ...  to  the  tune  of 
'Where  or  When'.  .  .  and,  to  my  complete 
amazement,  found  myself  winning  a  one- 
shot  guest  appearance.  To  say  I  was 
stupefied  when  I  was  offered  my  own 
show,  the  following  week,  is  putting  it 
mildly.  But  there  it  was.  And  suddenly — 
I  was  a  singer! 

"A  short  time  later,  I  learned  that 
Freddy  Martin  was  holding  auditions  for 
a  male  vocalist.  Once  again  'Where  or 
When'  turned  the  tide.  Funny,  the  way 
some  little  thing — in  my  case,  a  song — 
seems  to  become  a  lucky  charm. 

"But — getting  back  to  Freddy  Martin — 
as  I  said,  my  association  with  him  was  a 
great  experience  and  provided  the  best 
training  I  could  possibly  have  received. 
However,  there  were  no  two  ways  about 
it  .  .it  was  strenuous.  At  one  point,  we 
covered  seventy-four  cities  in  seventy- 
four  days! 

"Of  course,  touring  wasn't  always  this 
strenuous.  Sometimes  we  spent  several 
days  in  a  city.  In  places  like  New  York, 
where  we  played  the  Starlight  Roof  of  the 
Waldorf-Astoria,  we  stayed  for  two  and 
three  weeks.  But  I  guess  you  get  my 
point    about    lady    bus-drivers." 

Yes,  we  get  his  point.  Those  four  years 
were  obviously  no  time  for  a  young  singer 
to  entertain  any  ideas  about  marriage. 

When  Merv  left  Martin's  band,  he  went 
to  Warner  Bros,  on  a  film  contract.  After 
his  four-year  on-the-move  routine,  it 
seemed  to  him  as  though  he  had  settled 
down.  He  rented  a  furnished  house  and 
started    to   make    friends    and    "socialize." 

"Of  course,  as  I  look  back  on  it  now," 
he  admits,  "it  was  just  the  comparison 
with  being  on  the  road  that  made  my  life 
during  1952-54  seem  so  'settled  down.' 
Actually,  I  made  three  pictures  during 
that  time  and  went  off  on  a  personal  - 
appearance  tour  around  the  country  with 
one.  In  1954,  besides  playing  the  Sands 
Hotel  in  Las  Vegas  with  Tallulah  Bank- 
head,  I  spent  the  summer  in  New  York 
as  replacement  for  the  Jane  Froman  and 
Jo  Stafford  shows.  So  I  guess  I  really 
wasn't  as  stationary  as  I  thought.  But, 
even  so,  it  was  while  I  was  on  the  West 
Coast  .  .  .  that  I  first  thought  seriously 
about  marriage.  And  it's  probably  just 
as  well  it  never  got  beyond  that  stage, 
since  my  summer  in  New  York  had 
proved  to  me  that  this  was  where  I  wanted 
to  be  permanently  .  .  .  well,  as  perma- 
nently as  an  entertainer  can  use  the 
word." 

So,  when  the  bright  new  year  of  1955 
rolled  around,  New  York  found  itself  with 
an  energetic  young  vocalist  on  its  hands. 
What  to  do  with  him?  It  didn't  take 
Robert  Q.  Lewis  long  to  decide  that  ques- 
tion and  add  Merv  to  his  cast. 

Having  spent  the  summer  of  1954  in 
New  York,  Merv  was  no  longer  a  stranger. 
He  had  made  friends  quickly  that  sum- 
mer and — being  the  type  of  person  he  is — 
had  kept  them.  During  his  1954  stop- 
over in  the  big  city,  Merv  had  shared  an 
apartment  with  a  young  man  in  the  music 
publishing  business.     "Loring  Buzzell  and 


I  got  along  just  fine.  Both  being  in  the 
music  business,  we  had  a  lot  in  common. 
When  I'd  come  roaring  in  (as  I  often  do), 
ready  to  compose  the  year's  greatest  song 
hit,  Loring  would  understand  .  .  .  and 
leave  'genius'  to  its  work  unmolested.  He 
had  a  lot  of  friends  in  the  city,  and  was 
real  open-handed  about  introducing  me 
around.  Though  we  didn't  live  together 
very  long,  we  had  a  ball.  He  was  dating 
a  real  cute  girl  .  .  .  and,  in  July  of  that 
summer,  that  livin',  breathin'  doll  whisked 
him  off  down  the  aisle,  with  me  as  best 
man.  Since  I  thought  Lu  Ann  Simms  and 
Loring  Buzzell  made  one  of  the  greatest 
teams,  there  was  nothing  I  could  honestly 
do  but  give  them  my  blessings  .  .  .  and 
look  for  another  apartment. 

"And  I  must  admit  it's  couples  like  Lu 
Ann  and  Loring  that  make  me  know  it 
must  be  wonderful  to  be  married  and  raise 
a  family.  It  would  have  a  steadying 
effect,  particularly  on  a  guy  who's  in  as 
precarious  a  profession  as  I  am.  Not  that 
I'm  unhappy  being  a  bachelor  .  .  .  but, 
sure,  some  day  I  hope  to  meet  up  with 
that  so-called  'right  girl.'  " 

How  will  he  know  her?  Merv  Griffin  is 
quick  to  answer,  "I  haven't  the  remotest 
idea.  Never  did  make  up  a  list  of  likes 
and  dislikes  or  musts  and  mustn'ts,  or 
anything  like  that.  Whether  she's  a 
blonde,  brunette  or  redhead  couldn't  be 
of  less  importance.  I  have  no  preference. 
Beautiful?  Not  necessarily.  Attractive? 
Yes,  but  then  just  about  anybody  can  be 
attractive  .  .  .  you  know,  dress  well,  be 
neat,  well-groomed — that  sort  of  stuff. 

"Type  of  personality?  Well,  I  guess 
this  is  the  one  thing  on  which  I  have  some 
definite  ideas.  If  there's  one  thing  I  get 
out  of  life,  it's  a  large  charge.  Life  to  me 
is  exciting.  I'm  a  great  one  for  spur-of- 
the-moment  activities.  I'm  long  on  im- 
pulses. I  might  suddenly  decide  I  wanted 
to  go  somewhere  for  a  few  days  or  a 
weekend  .  .  .  and  I  wanted  to  go  right 
then.  The  girl  I  marry  will  have  to  be 
the  type  who  will  want  to  stop  reading, 
pack  a  few  things,  and  take  off  with  me 
on  a  moment's  notice. 

"Being  the  impulsive  type,  I  have  one 
characteristic  I  suppose  I  really  shouldn't 
wish  on  any  girl.  Emotionally,  I'm  apt  to 
be  riding  the  crest  of  the  wave  or  fighting 
the  ebb  tide.  Don't  think  I'm  as  bad  as  I 
used  to  be  ...  I  try  to  avoid  those  'way- 
ups  and  'way-downs  .  .  .  but  I  might  pre- 
sent  a    problem   that   way. 

"Of  course,  not  everything  I  do  involves 
spontaneous  combustion,  but  I'm  positive 
the  right  girl  for  me  must  be  quick  on 
the  trigger.  Above  all,  she  must  have  a 
good  sense  of  humor.  Seems  I  just  natu- 
rally gravitate  to  people  who  like  to 
laugh  .  .  .  people  who  find  life  fun  and 
exciting — not  a  sad  state  of  affairs  to  be 
put  up  with.  Don't  misunderstand.  I'm 
not  looking  for  lady  clown  or  a  dyed-in- 
the-wool  extrovert  .  .  .  just  a  gal  with  a 
sense  of  humor  and  happy  outlook. 

"Oh,  yes,  there  is  one  other  thing.  And 
here  I  may  be  bucking  the  tide.  Is  it  too 
much  to  ask  for  promptness?  You  see, 
I'm  used  to  being  prompt  ...  in  my  busi- 
ness, you  have  to  be.  Maybe  I  have  a 
'thing'  on  the  subject.  I  try  to  remember 
that  not  everybody  is  as  aware  of  time 
as  I  am  ...  as  I  have  to  be.  But  it 
doesn't  seem  to  help  much.  Having  to 
wait  for  a  date — particularly  when  I  know 
she  could  have  been  on  time,  if  she  had 
tried — can  kill  an  otherwise  good  time. 

"Also,  it  would  be  nice  if  she  could 
cook.  I  can't.  Why  I  never  learned,  I'm 
not  quite  sure — because  I  love  to  eat. 
Italian  food,  in  particular.     In  some  not- 


so-strange  way  I  seem  to  have  collected 
a  lot  of  friends  who  love  to  cook  but  have 
rather  inadequate  cooking  facilities  in 
their  own  apartments.  You  know  how 
full  of  'pullman  kitchens'  and  hot  plates 
New  York  is.  Well,  I'm  fortunate  enough 
to  have  a  nice  big  apartment — five  rooms 
— with  a  really  quite  decent  kitchen.  Or 
at  least  I'm  told  it  is.  I  really  wouldn't 
know.  About  the  most  I  can  manage  is 
the  electric  coffee  maker  and  toaster. 

"But — to  get  back  to  my  cooking 
friends — it  certainly  doesn't .  make  them 
unpopular  with  me  when  they  suggest 
coming  over  to  whip  up  a  home-cooked 
meal  for  me  and  a  half-dozen  others. 
Most  of  my  friends  are  in  the  entertain- 
ment world,  in  one  capacity  or  another. 
I  don't  mean  to  sound  snobbish  or  choosy 
about  my  friends  .  .  .  their  being  in  the 


entertainment  field,  I  mean.  It's  just  that 
that's  where  I  meet  people.  So  I  suppose 
I  might  be  fairly  safe  in  saying  the  girl 
I  marry  will  probably — although  not  nec- 
essarily— be  in  some  way  connected  with 
my  profession. 

"Well,  for  a  person  who  said  he  had  no 
preferences  or  real  demands,  I  seem  to 
have  prepared  a  fairly  substantial  list. 
Certainly  didn't  mean  to.  Always  thought 
love  and  love  alone  would  be  my  guide. 
In  fact,  despite  everything  I've  said,  I'm 
still  of  the  mind  to  leave  the  'where  and 
when' — and  who — up  to  love." 

Which  is  probably  the  most  sensible 
thing  this  young  bachelor  with  an  eye  to 
the  future  could  do.  After  all,  "Where  or 
When"  has  always  been  his  good  luck 
charm,  and  there's  no  reason  to  think  that 
adding  "who"  will  change  the  picture. 


Grandmas  Have  the  Most  Fun 


(Continued  from  page  37) 
chores  that  go  with  children.  For  the  first 
time  since  the  birth  of  your  first  child,  you 
can  relax  a  little.  Your  husband  sees  you 
serene,  perhaps  for  the  first  time.  You 
have  a  whole  new  kind  of  romance." 

Arthur  and  Kathryn  Murray  have  had  a 
tremendous  romance  since  they  were  mar- 
ried, April  24,  1925.  Four  months  before 
the  wedding,  they  were  complete  strangers. 
Arthur,  already  famous,  was  broadcasting 
dance  instructions  and  Kathryn  was  in 
the  studio  audience.  He  chose  her  to  dem- 
onstrate a  step.  She  was  one  of  many 
thousands  of  women  he  had  danced  with 
and  yet  he  remembers,  "She  was  so 
charming  that  I  instantly  began  to  think 
it  would  be  wonderful  to  have  a  wife  who 
was  so  much  fun  to  be  with."  Four  months 
later,  he  slipped  a  ring  on  her  finger  and 
they  honeymooned  in  Europe. 

"When  we  got  home,  we  had  a  little 
apartment  on  Fifth  Avenue  at  Ninety- 
Sixth  Street,"  Kathryn  recalls,  "and  I 
wanted  to  be  the  perfect  housewife.  Well, 
I  had  been  a  typical  daughter  previously, 
and  I  had  acted  as  though  food  grew  on  the 
table.  I  knew  nothing.  I  had  to  run  over 
to  the  YWCA  for  a  cooking  course." 

She  was  determined  to  be  domestic  in  a 
big  way  and  every  night  served  dinner  in 
the  dining  room.  She  got  out  her  sterling 
and  crystal  and  her  best  linen  and  table 
service.  She  decorated  the  table  with 
flowers  one  night,  with  nuts  the  next, 
with  colored   candles   another  night. 

"But,  you  know,  it  would  take  us  so 
long  to  clean  up  that  we  never  finished 
in  time  to  make  a  movie.  Then,  one  night, 
Arthur  brought  home  a  cartoon  of  a  man 
sitting  down  to  dinner  and  on  the  table 
was  an  enormous  cake  with  an  American 
flag  flying  out  of  the  center  and  the  hus- 
band saying  wearily,  'Darling,  must  we 
always  have  surprises?'  Well,  I  took  the 
lint." 

Kathryn  was,  in  a  sense*  relieved.  It 
wasn't  that  she  disliked  being  a  housewife. 
3he  has  always  managed  her  home  with 
efficiency  and  imagination.  The  cookery 
course  at  the  YWCA  was  just  the  begin- 
ning. She  has  taken  other  courses  and  she 
has  invented  some  excellent  recipes  of 
her  own.  But  the  fact  remains  that  she 
came  to  feel  hemmed  in  by  the  stove  and 
refrigerator.  Under  those  circumstances, 
she  couldn't  have  been  more  fortunate  in 
her  choice  of  a  husband. 

Arthur  Murray  preaches  and  practices 
equality  of  the  sexes.  His  business  is  a  big 
one — he  has  more  than  four  hundred 
branch  studios  in  the  United  States,  Can- 
ada, Australia,  South  Africa,  Mexico,  Eng- 
land and  Honolulu.  In  this  organization,  a 
woman  can  be  sure  of  equal  opportunity 
with    a    man.     In    his    office,    women   hold 


positions  of  equal  or  higher  authority 
than  men. 

Arthur's  mother,  a  practicing  realtor, 
had  been  a  successful  business  woman, 
which  accounts  for  his  original  respect  for 
women  as  dynamic,  capable  executives. 
His  continued  confidence  is  due  to  the  re- 
markable contributions  made  by  Kathryn 
to  his  dance  studios — although  an  event 
early  in  marriage  handicapped  her  for  a 
while.  The  event,  fifteen  months  after  the 
wedding,  was  the  arrival  of  two  storks. 

"Twins!  And  they  weren't  a  surprise. 
They  were  a  shock."  She  recalls,  "I  had 
read  a  book  that  described  twins  as  a 
'freak  of  nature.'  Well,  I  was  upset  when 
I  was  told  that  I  had  twins.  I  imagined 
them  about  the  size  of  birds.  I  didn't  even 
want  to  see  them.  It  was  the  following 
morning  that  I  saw  my  girls  for  the  first 
time.  Of  course,  they  weren't  freaks.  They 
were  lovely  babies  and  I  felt  differently 
instantly." 

The  date  was  July  1,  1926.  The  twin 
girls  were  named  Phyllis  and  Jane.  For 
the  next  twelve  years,  Kathryn  found  her- 
self fully  occupied  at  home.  She  did  man- 
age some  outside  studying.  Prior  to  mar- 
riage, she  had  prepared  to  be  a  teacher  at 
the  Newark  State  Normal  School.  She 
added  to  this  with  courses  in  French, 
horticulture  and  magazine-article  writing. 
Arthur  gave  her  home  courses  in  business. 

"I  wonder  if  sometimes  the  girls  didn't 
feel  shut  out,"  she  says,  "for  Arthur  and  I 
talked  so  much  about  his  work.  But,  you 
see,  I  regard  the  husband  as  the  most  im- 
portant member  of  the  household.  Oh,  I 
was  attentive  to  the  children  but  they 
knew  that,  if  Daddy  was  to  be  late,  I  would 
wait  and  have  dinner  with  him." 

The  Murrays  lived  in  the  suburbs. 
Arthur's  studio  was  open  evenings.  That, 
along  with  personal  appearances  and 
broadcasts,  kept  him  in  the  city  and  he 
was  often  late  in  getting  home.  Although 
frequently  separated,  Arthur  and  Kathryn 
were  together  on  attitudes:  "Then  and 
now,  we  often  talked  about  a  housewife's 
life  and  how  it  becomes  empty  and  point- 
less when  her  children  grow  up.  At  that 
time,  she  is  mature,  understanding,  dis- 
ciplined and  probably  very  attractive.  We 
agree  that  she  should  then  turn  to  another 
full-time  occupation.  Work  is  what  makes 
a  person  alert  and  exciting." 

When  the  twins  were  twelve,  Kathryn 
began  to  work  for  Arthur.  Her  thinking 
was  that  the  children  were  in  school  all 
day,  and  occupied  with  friends  and  games 
and  study  after  school,  so  that  there  was 
no  need  for  her  until  dinner.  So,  when  the 
children  got  off  in  the  morning,  Kathryn 
went  to  the  office,  then  met  the  children 
again  at  dinner. 

That  was  eighteen  years  ago,  and  today 


Extra 

Cash 

Fast 


Here's  an  unusual  opportunity  to  earn  extra 
cash  fast  and  often.  We  pay  the  highest  com- 
missions to  thousands  of  part-time  salesmen 
who  help  us  take  orders  for  magazine  sub- 
scriptions, all  over  the  country.  Easy!  No  ex- 
perience! Rush  name  and  address  for  FREE 
mcney-making  information  to:  Macfadden  Pub- 
lications, 205   East  42  St.,   New  York  17,  N.  Y. 


FOR  EASIEST  EXTRA  MONEY  , 


TALL  CHRISTMAS  CARDS  ft 


"">»)  inimn  I 


Quickest  Way  to  Make  '7S29 

EXCLUSIVE  "Gold  Luxury"  Assortment  pays 
you  big  75c  profit  on  every  $1.25  box— $75.00  on 
100.  Make  more  with  other  Christmas  EXCLU- 
S1VES: — big  selection  Name-Imprinted  Cards; 
TALL  Card,  21  in  $1  box:  4-in-l     Simply  Colos- 
sal" Box;  Gift  WRAPS  BY-THE-YARD,  56 
ft.  roll;  sensational  new  Gift  Novelties;  over 
250  money-makers.  You  make  highest  profits 
plus  EXTRA  CASH  BONUS.   Money  -back  ^-r^r 

Guarantee  assures  you  up  to  20c  more  profit  per     y*^>?*        j^ 
box.EXTRASAMPLLSATlOc.othersurprises.    /$   Guaranteed  by    ^ 
Send  coupon  for  Free  Trial  samples  NOW.  I  Good  Housekeeping 

{"cardinal  craftsmen  ^^siiss^ 

J    1400  Slate  A»e.,  Dent,  j-29,     Cincinnati  14,  Ohio 

Please  send  money-making  kit  of  5  boxes  on 
approval.  FREE  Personalized  SampleB  and 
FREE  offers. 

FREE  OfESR!\  Nain 

POP-UP  TOASTER  i   Addr«» u 

Salt  &  Pepper  Set      _,.    .  _,  , 

tor  prompt  action  L^i'-f  2?il™~-~~"~~™^™— ~ 


91 


92 


W    *+     *      »     *      »  i 

I       Can't  Get  Rid  of 
I  Dark  or  Discolored  Skin, 
freckles,  Skin  Spots? 


HERE'S  HELP!  Mercolized  Wax  Cream 
7  NIGHT  PLAN  Lightens, 
Beautifies  Skin  While  You  Sleep 

Just  follow  the  famous  Mercolized  Wax 
Cream  7  Night  Plan  to  a  whiter,  smoother, 
lovelier  skin.  Smooth  rich,  luxurious  Mer- 
colized Wax  Cream  on  your  face  or  arms 
just  beforeretiringeach  night  for  one  week. 
You'll  begin  to  see  results  almost 
at  once  .  .  .  lightens  dark  skin, 
blotches,  spots,  freckles  as  if  by 
magic!  This  is  not  acoverup cos- 
metic; Mercolized  Wax  Cream 
works  UNDER  the  skin  surface. 
Beautiful  women  have  used  this 
time-tested  plan  for  over  40  years  — you'll 
love  it's  fast,  sure,  longer  lasting  results! 
Mercolized  Wax  Cream  is  sold  on  100%  guar- 
antee or  money  back.    Start  using  it  now  ! 

MERCOLIZED  WAX  CREAM 

At  All  Drug  and  Cosmetic  Counters 


Lightens  dark 
skin  and  ugly 
spots  almost 
overnight. 


HELP 


us  take  orders  for  magazine  sub- 
scriptions and  earn  lots  of  money  doing  it.  Write 
today  for  FREE  money-making  information:  TV  Radio 
Mirror  Subscription  Sales  Dept.,  205  East  42  Street, 
New  York  17,  N.  Y. 


mo 

^Your 
Child's 
Photo 


HUNDREDS  OF  DOLLARS  PAID... 

each  month  by  advertisers  for  boys  &  girls 
pictures  (6  mo.  to  18  yrs.)  for  TV.Calendar  & 
Magazine  ads.  Your  child  has  same  opportu- 
nity. Send  ,0NE  (1)  small  photo  for  approval. 
Print  childs  and  mothers  name  and  address 
on  back.  Returned  in  20  days  with  report. 
NO  OBLIGATION. 

Hollywood    Spotlite,    Dept.    AH 
1611  N.   LaBrea  Ave.,   Hollywood,  Calif. I 


i^H HIGH  SCHOOLS 


No  classes  to  attend.  Easy  spare-time  train- 1 
ing  covers  big  choice  of  subjects.  Friendly  \ 
instructors;  standard  texts.  Full  credit  for\ 
previous  schooling.     Diploma  awarded. f 
Write  now  for  FREE  catalog  I 

WAYNE    SCHOOL   Catalog  HH-37 
2527  Sheffield  Ave.,  Chicago  14,  Illinois  ^ 

LEARN  AT  HOME 

•  to  be  a   Nurse's  Aide 

•  Practical   Nurse 

•  or   Infant   Nurse 


Prepare  in  spare  time  for  a  fascinating,  high-pay  career. 
Thousands  of  men  and  women,  18-60,  are  graduates  of 
this  physician-endorsed  course.  High  school  not  required. 
Easy  payments ;  earn  as  you  learn.  Trial  plan.  57th  year. 
CHICAGO  SCHOOL  OF  NURSING 
Dept.  28,  25  East  Jackson  Blvd.,  Chicago  4,  III. 
Please  send  me  free  booklet  and  16  sample  lesson  pages. 

Warns.  

City State Age 

ANY  PHOTO  ENLARGED 

Size  8  x  10  Inches 


67- 


on  DOUBLE-WEIGHT  Paper 

Same  price  for  full  length  or  bast 
form,  groups,  landscapes,  pet  ani- 
mals, etc.,  or  enlargements  of  any 
part  of  a  group  picture.  Original  is 
returned  with  your  enlargement. 

SendNoMoney  3for$150 

Just  mail  photo,  negative  or  snap- 
shot (any  size)  and  receive  your  enlargement,     „ 
guaranteed  fadeless. on  beautiful  double-weight      '%' 
portrait  quality  paper.  Pay  postman  67c  plus    .JT 
postage— or  send  69c  with  order  and  we  pay  post- 
age. Take  advantage  of  this  amazing  offer.  Send  your  photos  today. 

Professional  Art  Studios,  544  S.  Main,  Dent.  36-K,  Princeton,  Illinois 

Com  Pain  Stopped 
Fast 


Out  Come 
Corns  in 
a  Hurry! 

Dr.  Scholl's  Zino-pads  not  only  give  fast  nerve-deep 
relief  from  pain,  but  also  remove  corns  one  of  the 
quickest  ways  known  to  medical  science.  Try  them ! 


D-rScholls  Zino-pads 


she  is  a  vice-president.  She  maintains 
correspondence  with  branch  managers  and 
writes  sales  manuals  and  training  manuals 
for  teachers  and  students.  She  takes  a 
couple  of  hours  out  each  morning  to  re- 
hearse for  the  Thursday-night  television 
show.  Her  executive  day  begins  at  nine- 
thirty  and  runs  as  late  as  six-thirty  or 
eight  every  workday  but  Saturday,  when 
she  usually  takes  off  at  noon.  But  in  spite 
of  her  heavy  professional  schedule,  she  still 
bakes,  runs  her  home  and  cooks. 

For  many  years,  the  Murrays  have  been 
living  in  a  Park  Avenue  apartment,  for 
they  decided  to  give  up  the  mechanics  of 
running  a  house  when  the  children  grew 
up.  In  their  apartment,  they  have  two  bed- 
rooms, a  tiny  dining  room,  a  comfortable 
living  room  and  a  fine  kitchen — where, 
three  mornings  a  week,  Kathryn  bakes. 

"Arthur  is  one  of  those  men  who  likes 
to  have  his  cake  and  eat  it,"  she  says.  "I 
don't  think  bread  has  ever  passed  his  lips. 
He  even  has  cake  for  breakfast.  He  has  a 
cookie  tin  on  his  desk  that  I  keep  filled." 

Whenever  he  tastes  a  new  confection,  he 
reports  it  promptly  to  Kathryn.  She  ac- 
cepts the  challenge,  although  she  can't 
always  predict  the  ending:  "Arthur  got 
back  from  Florida  just  recently  and  told 
me  about  a  black-and-white  cake  that  was 
striped  rather  than  marbled.  Well,  I  tried 
it,  but  all  of  the  chocolate  settled  to  the 
bottom.  Of  course,  we  ate  it,  anyway." 
(Cakes  that  don't  come  out  right  are 
termed  "mistake  cakes."  They  are  sliced 
and  put  back  in  the  oven  with  butter  and 
sugar  and/or  cinnamon  to  be  made  into 
crisps.) 

Kathryn  has  been  getting  up  at  six 
since  she  was  a  child.  Her  father  was  on 
an  afternoon  paper  and  had  to  be  at  work 
by  eight,  so  Kathryn  awoke  early  to 
breakfast  with  him. 

"It's  not  easy  to  get  early -morning 
companionship,  but  then  early-morning 
privacy's  rather  nice,"  she  says.  "I  have 
some  juice  and  coffee  and  then  the  paper 
all  to  myself.  After  that,  I  do  my  baking 
and  put  my  clothes  in  order." 

JVlrs.  Murray  is  a  conscientious  house- 
wife. Open  a  closet  door,  and  you  find 
boxes  neatly  arranged  and  labeled  with 
contents.  In  general,  however,  the  Murrays 
try  to  keep  away  from  storage  problems 
by  saving  as  few  things  as  possible. 

"We  don't  believe  in  letting  possessions 
run  away  with  you.  When  we  get  some- 
thing new,  we  give  something  old  away.  A 
new  sweater  means  giving  away  a  used 
sweater.  If  I  buy  a  black  dress,  then  I 
give  away  something  dressy.  I  really  hate 
to  part  with  books,  though.  But,  in  the 
end,  we  do." 

Her  apartment  is  furnished  in  eighteenth 
century,  and  much  of  the  furniture  she 
has  kept  since  her  wedding.  She  is  par- 
ticularly fond  of  the  fine  Chippendale 
chairs  in  the  living  room.  They  are  cov- 
ered in  yellow  damask.  The  walls  are 
beige  and  the  carpeting  is  aqua.  Aqua  raw 
silk  and  gay  chintz  make  the  curtains  and 
the  upholstery.  Little  shelves  over  the  fire- 
place hold  porcelain  dancing  figures  which 
the  Murrays  have  been  collecting  over  the 
years.  Corner  shelves  are  filled  with 
plants,  as  is  the  window  box.  There  are 
about  seventy  plants  in  the  living  room. 

The  dining  room  is  small.  Here,  Kathryn 
has  a  two -seated  sofa,  a  small  table  and  a 
television  set.  "We  eat  out  often,"  Kathryn 
says,  "for  we  are  usually  in  the  office  late. 
But,  when  Arthur  wants  to  watch  tele- 
vision, we  come  home  and  we  have  some- 
thing quick  and  easy,  like  hamburgers  or 
chops,  while  we  watch  the  shows." 

She  has  taken  possession  of  the  master 
bedroom  and  has  the  walls  in  charcoal 
gray.  Two  of  the  walls,  however,  are  fully 
covered  by  pink  taffeta  curtains.  The  car- 
peting is  moss  green.  As  a  dressing  table, 


Kathryn  uses  a  handsome  antique  library 
desk.  Arthur's  bedroom  is  smaller  and 
looks  like  a  sitting  room,  with  its  couch- 
bed  and  a  small  TV  set. 

"We  sleep  apart  because  of  my  early 
waking,"  she  says.  "In  the  morning,  I 
thunder  like  a  herd  of  elephants." 

After  a  couple  of  hours  of  work,  she 
sits  down  to  a  full  breakfast.  About  nine, 
she  leaves  for  the  office,  wearing  simple, 
dark  clothes.  She  favors  brown  and  navy; 
wools  in  the  winter;  shantung  in  the 
summer.  What  she  puts  on  in  the  morning 
usually  has  to  last  through  the  evening. 
In  cool  weather,  she  wears  a  red  coat. 

"Red  is  practical.  It  can  be  dressy  in  the 
evenings — and,  besides,  it  gives  you  a 
pick-up  after  a  day  at  the  office." 

She  makes  one  concession  to  fashion  by 
wearing  a  beret-style  hat,  although  she 
hates  hats.  For  years  she  has  been  order- 
ing the  same  style  over  and  over  in  differ- 
ent colors.  She  got  her  first  mink  coat 
two  years  ago. 

"A  mink  isn't  much  fun  when  you  know 
you  can  have  one,"  she  says.  "I  don't 
think  I've  worn  it  fourteen  times.  What 
I'm  really  proud  of  are  my  nightgowns 
and  negligees.  I  think  that  I  must  have  the 
most  beautiful  collection  in  New  York. 
Arthur  always  gives  me  a  nightgown  and 
a  negligee  for  birthdays  and  holidays. 
When  he  stops  buying  me  black  night- 
gowns, I  don't  think  life  will  be  worth 
living." 

At  the  Manhattan  sudios,  Arthur  and 
Kathryn  share  the  same  reception  room. 
Their  offices  are  adjoining.  They  seldom 
have  the  opportunity  to  dance  with  each 
other,  but  each  puts  in  at  least  an  hour  a 
day  at  the  studio. 

"It's  this  way,"  Kathryn  says.  "During 
the  day,  if  I  feel  a  little  tired  or  just  want 
to  walk  away  from  my  work  for  a  while, 
I  see  if  one  of  the  instructors  is  free  and 
book  him  for  an  hour  of  dancing.  I  come 
back  to  the  office  feeling  refreshed." 

In  a  month's  time,  the  Murrays  spend  a 
weekend  with  each  of  their  daughters. 
One  twin,  Phyllis,  is  married  to  Edward 
McDowell,  a  high-school  teacher  in  New 
Haven,  Connecticut.  They  have  three 
daughters:  Kathryn,  six,  Martha,  four,  and 
Meg  Adair,  seven  months.  Kathryn's  other 
daughter,  Jane,  is  married  to  Dr.  Henry  J. 
Heimlich.  They  live  in  Rye,  New  York, 
and  have  two  sons,  Peter,  two,  and  Philip 
Murray,  three.  The  granddaughters  call 
Kathryn  "Grandma".  The  boys  call  her 
"Katie." 

"The  children  love  Grandma  for  the 
way  she  tells  stories,"  her  daughter  says. 
"She's  good  at  pantomime." 

This  is  not  a  new  side  of  Kathryn 
Murray.  Daughter  Phyllis  announces  that 
she  is  going  to  get  a  piano,  for  she  says 
the  warmest  memories  of  childhood  are 
those  of  Kathryn  singing  to  her  at  bed- 
time. But  she  is  not  merely  entertaining. 
Grandma  Katie  is  also  tactful.  Whenever 
she  phones,  she  always  asks  to  speak  to 
the  grandchildren  first. 

"It  works  better,  too,"  she  says.  "It's 
impossible  to  talk  to  Phyllis  or  Jane  when 
one  of  the  children  is  begging  for  the 
phone." 

After  the  telecast  each  Thursday,  Kath- 
ryn phones  her  daughters  for  their  opinion 
of  the  show:  "I'll  have  something  on  my 
mind,  like  a  dress — the  show  is  all  over, 
and  I'm  still  not  sure  whether  it  was  right 
for  me.  I'll  ask  Phyllis,  'Did  you  like  my 
gown?' — and  she  says,  'Mother,  I  was  too 
busy  watching  you  to  see  the  gown.'  She 
is  critical,  though.  She  told  me  that  she 
didn't  think  I  should  do  any  more  acro- 
batic dancing.  She  doesn't  think  it's  fitting 
for  a  grandmother." 

But  Kathryn  Murray  is  an  unusual 
grandmother.  That's  not  surprising,  for  she 
is  an  unusual  woman — all  five  of  her. 


The  Merry  Modernaires 


(Continued  from  page  46) 
respects,  The  Mods  share  comparable 
problems.  Among  them,  they  have  ten 
children — seven  girls  and  three  boys. 
Paula  and  Hal  Dickinson,  who  have  been 
bride  and  groom  since  New  Year's  Day, 
1939,  have  three  daughters:  Martha,  fif- 
teen, Paula,  Jr.,  thirteen,  and  Juliann, 
nine.  John  and  Marion  Drake  have  two 
daughters:  Elizabeth,  six,  and  Carole,  two. 
Fran  and  Elsie  Mary  Scott  have  a  son  and 
a  daughter:  Johnny,  eleven,  and  Deborah, 
almost  four.  Allan  and  Dolores  Copeland 
have  three  youngsters:  Christine,  almost 
seven,  Michael,  who  will  be  five  in  No- 
vember, and  Richard,  who  was  a  year  old 
in  April  of  this  year. 

The  fact  of  -their  multiple  parenthood 
has  always  provided  The  Mods  with  a 
stupendous  area  to  be  discussed,  con- 
ferred upon,  and  shared  in  commiseration. 
There  is  no  comfort  to  equal  that  of  one 
parent  upon  being  reassured  by  another 
with  the  famous  phrase,  "Don't  worry — 
it's  only  a  phase.  Putting  the  pearls 
through  the  garbage  disposal  is  nothing. 
Wait  until  he  puts  a  carton  of  cigarettes 
in  the  automatic  washing  machine  with  a 
pair  of  riding  boots  and  your  wife's  heir- 
loom lace  tablecloth." 

As  everyone  knows,  Bob  Crosby  is 
parent  of  five,  which  further  extends  the 
area  of  understanding — and  a  lucky  thing, 
too,  because  an  occasional  Modernaire 
performance  has  produced  frantic  home- 
side  repercussions. 

On  a  show  several  months  ago,  The 
Mods  did  a  dramatization  of  "Skokian,"  a 
narrative  ditty  telling  the  sad  plight  of  a 
pith-helmeted  hunting  type  (played  by 
the  youngest,  blondest  member  o  f  the 
group,  Allan  Copeland)  who  encountered 
a  band  of  savages  and  wound  up  in  a 
giant  kettle  while  the  camera  recorded 
his  plight.  The  rest  of  The  Mods  were 
hay-skirted,  frizz-headed,  painted  and 
beaded  enough  to  strike  terror  to  the  stout 
heart  of  a  Marine  sergeant  ...  so  it  is 
not  remarkable  that  Michael  Copeland, 
aged  four  and  one -half,  concluded  that  his 
father  had  just  wound  up  as  No.  1  on  the 
Tidbit  Parade.    He  went  into  hysterics. 

Mrs.  Copeland  telephoned  CBS-TV  and 
explained  her  problem.  Word  was  slipped 
to  Bob  Crosby,  who  hastened  to  announce 
that  he  had  a  special  message  for  Michael 
Copeland:  His  daddy  was  fine.  It  had 
been  a  game,  and  any  resemblance  of 
Allan  Copeland  to  a  New  England  boiled 
dinner  was  all  in  fun.  No  water  in  the 
kettle — no  fire,  really,  under  it.  .  .  .  Mich- 
ael relaxed  but,  for  several  weeks,  he 
refused  to  watch  the  program,  explaining 
simply,  "They  play  too  rough." 

Ihe  ten  children  of  the  singing  group 
have  presented  another  fascinating  prob- 
lem. As  everyone  knows,  children  never 
come  down  with  chicken  pox  until  the 
eve  of  the  most  inconvenient  day  in  any 
calendar  year.  Just  when  The  Mods  have 
been  scheduled  into  Cocoanut  Grove  for 
three  weeks,  or  are  flying  daily  to  Las 
Vegas  to  fulfill  a  highly  $ati$factory  com- 
mitment, some  second-generation  Mod- 
ernaire is  sure  to  come  down  with  some- 
thing— usually  a  disorder  featuring  large, 
red  polka  dots. 

Another  bugaboo  of  singing  groups  is 
the  unfilterable  virus  of  the  common  cold. 
Paula  Kelly,  the  soprano  and  unofficial 
mother,  style  authority,  and  coffeemaker 
of  the  group,  is  instantly  alerted  by  a  dull 
eye  or  a  tired  tone,  and  she  is  positively 
galvanized  by  a  sneeze,  no  matter  how 
gesundheit.  She  produces  tall  bottles  of 
anti -histamine,  and  the  sneezee  is  sent 
home  as  quickly  as  possible,  performances 


and  rehearsals  considered. 

As  a  result,  The  Mods  have  never  failed 
to  keep  a  date  becauv  f  illness.  Trans- 
portation is  their  nemesis,  and  even  that 
has  put  the  hex  on  them  only  twice.  The 
first  near  cataclysm  took  place,  of  all  un- 
likely locations,  in  the  spanking  new  CBS- 
TV  building  itself.  Usually,  The  Mods 
drift  in  by  ones  or  twos  during  the  thirty 
minutes  preceding  the  nine  A.M.  rehearsal. 

However,  one  morning  the  news  filtered 
up  to  the  third-floor  studio  that  a  violent 
motor  accident  had  taken  place  on  Beverly 
Boulevard,  the  artery  passing  to  the  north 
of  the  station,  so  all  five  Mods  popped 
down  to  the  street  to  check  the  situation 
then  returned  to  the  elevator. 

The  elevator,  an  automatic,  took  the  vo- 
calists up  two  and  one-half  stories  and 
hung  poised  as  happily  as  a  mountain 
goat  resting  on  an  Alp.  .  .  .  Five  synchro- 
nized watches  announced  that  airtime  was 
approaching  and  The  Mods  were  not. 
Beating  the  panic  button  produced  no 
response;  the  doors  opening  on  the  second 
floor  were  just  beyond  reach  below,  those 
opening  on  the  third  floor  were  just 
beyond  reach  above.  No  one  even  sug- 
gested uttering  sounds  of  distress  because 
setting  up  a  howl  in  a  telecasting  studio 
elevator  is  roughly  equivalent  to  whisper- 
ing for  attention  in  a  steel  mill. 

Chances  are  that  they  might  have 
camped  there  for  some  time  if  Tommy 
Sheils,  The  Mods'  business  manager,  hadn't 
rescued  them  forty-two  seconds  before  the 
"On  the  Air"  light  turned  red  to  match 
The  Mods'  complexions. 

1  he  second  incident  took  place  in  March 
of  this  year,  when  The  Mods  were  es- 
tablishing some  sort  of  an  endurance  rec- 
ord by  doubling  their  output  of  notes. 
Their  schedule  went  like  this:  Each 
Monday  through  Friday,  they  reported  to 
CBS-TV  at  9:00  A.M.  to  start  rehearsals 
for  the  Crosby  show.  The  show  aired  at 
12:  SO  until  1  P.M.  (PST),  at  which  time  the 
four  guys  and  a  gal  had  a  fast  coffee 
break  and  returned  to  work  on  the  show 
for  the  following  day.  They  broke  at  3:00, 
drove  to  the  airport  .  .  .  and  took  off  at 
4: 00  for  Las  Vegas. 

Usually,  they  reached  Vegas  around 
6:15  to  6: 30— -depending  upon  the  co- 
operation of  tailwinds — rushed  to  the  hotel 
at  which  they  were  appearing  .  (The 
Sahara),  changed  clothes  and  applied 
makeup,  had  another  cup  of  coffee,  and 
gave  their  first  show  at  8:00  P.M.  The 
second  show  went  on  at  midnight,  after 
which  the  quintet  with  the  quivering  vocal 
chords  removed  costumes,  showered,  re- 
dressed, and  had  dinner.  Having  slowed 
down  to  a  gallop,  they  fell  into  an  ex- 
hausted sleep  disturbed  only  by  a  call 
permitting  them  to  catch  their  chartered 
plane  which  took  off  for  Los  Angeles  at 
6: 00  A.M.  .  .  .  Shaken  but  still  game,  they 
then   reported    at    CBS-TV   at   9:00   A.M. 

As  there  is  in  any  group,  there  was  one 
rebel  against  this  regular  invasion  of  the 
skies:  Allan  Copeland.  As  far  as  he  is 
concerned,  the  Wright  Brothers  goofed.  He 
never  boards  a  plane  if  he  can  avoid  it, 
and  he  leaves  as  quickly  as  a  stairway  is 
rolled  into  place.  During  The  Modern- 
aires' three-week  Las  Vegas  marathon, 
Allan  had  no  choice  except  to  fly  up  to 
Las  Vegas  with  his  fellow  troupers  .  .  . 
but,  just  after  the  midnight  show,  he  was 
able  to  catch  a  Limited  train  having  a 
berth  made  up  for  an  admirer  of  surface 
transportation,  for  the  trip  back  down. 

And  so  it  happened  that  when  The  Day 
of  the  Big  Wind  descended  upon  Las 
Vegas,  grounding  everything  but  tumble- 
weeds,  four  of  The  Mods  were  stranded  in 


"I  now  have 
peace  of  mind  in 
my  married  life!" 


says  Mrs.  E.  Rosen  who  now 
uses  ZONITE  to  douche! 

SAFE!  Most  women— both  married  and 
about-to-be-married  — wonder  about 
douching  for  feminine  hygiene.  Mrs.  Rosen 
did,  and  she  only  found  peace  of  mind 
when  she  heard  about  the  importance  of 
following  the  proper  method  of  douching 
with  a  fountain  syringe,  using  an  effective 
yet  safe  solution — like  zonite. 
EFFECTIVE!  No  other  type  liquid  anti- 
septic-germicide for  the  douche  of  all  those 
tested  is  so  powerfully  effective  yet  so  safe 
to  body  tissues  as  zonite. 
HEALTHFUL!  zonite  completely  deodor- 
izes, promptly  washes  away  germs  and 
odor-causing  waste  substances.  A  nurse 
once  advised  Mrs.  Rosen  that  if  any  ab- 
normal condition  exists,  she  should  see  her 
doctor.  She  said  he  would  probably  recom- 
mend that  she  continue  to  use  zonite. 
DAINTY!  You,  too,  can  be  one  of  the  mod- 
ern women  who  welcome  the  "peace  of 
mind"  and  daintiness  that  zonite  gives 
them  after  monthly  periods  and  other 
times.  You  can  use  zonite  as  directed,  as 
often  as  needed,  without  the  slightest  risk 
of  injury.  Costs  only  pennies  per  douche. 

ue    ZONITE 

Guaranteed  by  <A  r.-.t*s  «»*»* 

vGood  Housekeeping^  SO  SaTe  yeT 

so  effective! 

MAKE  BIG  MONEY  FAST! 

Send  me  your  name  and  address  today  on  a  postcard.  I  will 
send  you  FREE  information  telling  you  how  to  make  BIG 
MONEY  in  your  spare  time  by  helping  us  take  orders  for 
magazine  subscriptions  in  your  neighborhood.  Send  name 
and  address  to:  TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East  42  St., 
New  York  17,   N.  Y.  There  is  no  obligation! 

IT'S  GREAT  TO  CLEAR  YOUR  SKIN 

PSORIASIS 

-the  ugly  scaly  skin  trouble 


tjWDERMOIL 


Enjoy  the  thrill  of  a  smooth 
clear  skin!  DERMOIL 
formula  used  by  many  doctors.  Amazing 
results  reported  for  over  22  years!  No 
matter  how  long  you  have  suffered,  write 
for  Free  Book  on  Psoriasis  with  "Before 
and   After"   photos   of   results,   and 
SEND  10c  for  generous  trial  bottle. 
Satisfaction  in  2  weeks  or  money 
back.  Sold  by  all  Druggists. 

LAKE    LABORATORIES,   Dept.  2204 

Box  392  5  Strathmoor  Station,  Detroit  27,  Mich. 


Saaf/OPfrr 
TRIAL 
.    SIZE . 


93 


the  State  of  Nevada — whereas  Allan  Cope- 
land  appeared,  fresh  and  triumphant,  for 
the  regular  9:00  A.M.  Crosby  rehearsal. 
.  .  .  Possibly  you  saw  the  show  in  which 
The  Modernaires  became  a  trio  composed 
of  announcer  Jack  Narz,  who  emits  a 
reasonably  pleasant  baritone  in  such  la- 
ments as  "Sixteen  Tons,"  Bob  Crosby,  and 
anti-aircraftman  Allan  Copeland. 

Incidentally,  Allan  is  the  newest  mem- 
ber of  The  Mods,  having  completed  eight 
years  with  the  group,  and  is  known  among 
his  associates  as  "our  juvenile  delinquent" 
because  of  his  sunny  blondness,  his  impish 
inclination  to  insinuate  into  the  quintet, 
at  odd  times,  the  voice  of  Clark  Gable, 
Charles  Boyer,  Rudy  Vallee,  or  some 
equally  unexpected  personality.  But  more 
of  Allan  later. 

Founder  and  namer  of  The  Modernaires 
is  tenor  Hal  Dickinson,  a  big,  bluff,  hearty 
man  who  would  be  type -cast  in  motion 
pictures  as  a  high-minded  attorney,  a 
kindly  doctor,  or  a  successful  but  hard- 
working business  man — which  he  is. 

Born  in  Buffalo,  New  York,  Hal  earned 
a  sextuple-threat  reputation  by  excelling 
at  tennis,  basketball,  baseball,  hockey, 
song,  and  tympani.  His  first  musical  job 
cast  him  in  a  trio  called  "Three  Weary 
Willies,"  which  sang  over  station  WGR, 
Buffalo,  sponsored  by  a  furniture""  com- 
pany. Pay  was  $10.00  per  month  plus  all 
the  furniture  polish  they  could  use.  "Three 
Weary  Willies"  was  one  of  Hal's  titles. 
Another  was  "Don  Juan,  Two  and  Three," 
for  the  trio  singing  in  New  York  on  NBC. 

A  bridge  addict,  Hal  was  never  really 
happy  with  a  trio,  so  (after  a  26-week 
stint  with  Ted  Fio  Rito  in  Hotel  Holly- 
wood) Hal  returned  to  New  York  to 
captain  a  quartet  by  acquiring  a  fourth 
for  bridge.  That  done,  the  foursome  joined 
Ray  Noble,  and  Hal — agreeing  with  Ray 
that  the  quartet  should  be  given  a  distinc- 
tive title — spotted  an  advertisement  for 
bringing  a  home  up  to  date.  "Modernize 
your  furniture,"  the  billboard  suggested, 
and  the  wheels  of  the  elevated  took  it  up, 
"Modernize  your  furniture  and  give  your 
home  an  air — modern  air — modern  air. 
.  .  ."  The  Modernaires  were  born. 

After  their  Noble  experience,  The  Mod- 
ernaires joined  Charlie  Barnet  for  six 
months,  then  spent  some  time  with  Fred 
Waring  and  Paul  Whiteman.  In  1940,  they 
were  approached  by  an  erstwhile  buddy 
of  the  Ray  Noble  days,  a  chap  who  had 
played  tantalizing  trombone.  He  had 
formed  his  own  band,  and  he  wanted  The 
Modernaires  to  add  vocal  zest  to  the  or- 
ganization. His  name  was  Glenn  Miller. 
It  was  with  Glenn  Miller  that  Hal  ac- 
quired some  motion  picture  experience  in 
"Orchestra  Wife"  and  "Sun  Valley  Sere- 
nade." And,  during  the  war,  Hal  was  on 
the  plane  with  the  rest  of  the  band  when 
it  made  a  safe  flight  from  England  to 
France.  Glenn's  smaller  plane  disappeared. 
To  backtrack  a  little:  In  the  early 
twenties,  a  girl  named  Paula  Kelly  was 
born  in  Grove  City,  Pennsylvania.  She 
was  still  in  pigtails  when  she  talked  her 
two  older  sisters  into  forming  a  trio  to 
sing  over  Pittsburgh's  KDKA  airwaves. 
When  Major  Bowes  came  to  town,  Paula 
arranged  an  audition  for  the  trio  which 
resulted  in  a  fifteen-month  tour  with  the 
Bowes  unit.  Occasionally,  a  singing  group 
named  "The  Modernaires"  would  share 
billing  with  the  Bowes  unit,  so  Paula  got 
to  know  a  chap  named  Hal  Dickinson. 

When   her   sisters    tired    of   life    on   the 
road    and    decided    to    remain    at    home, 
marry,  and  start  families,  Paula  accepted 
v    a  Dick  Stabile  singing  offer,  followed  by  a 
R    season  with  Al  Donohue,  followed  by  en- 
gagements   with    most    of    the    top    name 
bands  of  the  country.  Somehow,  wherever 
she  went,  The  Modernaires  seemed  to  be 
94 


appearing  at  a  rival  theater  or  a  rival 
supper  club — and  Hal  Dickinson  seemed  to 
be  available  for  dinner  after  the  last  show. 

Each  meeting  was  more  enchanted  and 
each  parting  became  more  painful,  so 
they  decided  to  do  the  sensible  thing: 
Form  a  domestic  duet.  This  union  was 
celebrated  on  New  Year's  Day,  1939.  The 
Modernaires  had  thus  become  a  quintet 
...  so  Paula  also  learned  about  picture- 
making  in  "Orchestra  Wife"  and  "Sun 
Valley  Serenade." 

It  is  pleasant  to  report  that,  about  two 
months  ago,  Paula  was  stopped  on  the 
street  by  a  well-known  agent  who  said, 
"I  think  you  could  succeed  in  motion 
pictures.  Right  now  there  is  a  part  for 
which  you'd  be  right.  Would  you  be  in- 
terested in  interviewing  for  it?" 

Paula  said  that  her  three  daughters  kept 
her  rather  busy  and  that  she  also  aided 
her  husband  in  his  profession,  so  her  time 
was  quite  taken  up.  Then  she  said,  "But 
thank   you — thank   you   very  much." 

The  gentleman  was  exhibiting  rare 
taste  in  his  attempt  to  interest  Paula  in 
films.  Her  hair  is  dark  auburn,  close- 
cropped  and  curly.  Her  eyes  are  wide-set 
and  the  color  of  tiger's-eye  quartz.  Her 
figure  is  that  of  an  active  teenager. 

Paula  was  taught  violin  during  her 
formative  years,  but  hasn't  played  for 
some  time.  An  expert  swimmer,  she  hasn't 
much  time  to  indulge  that  ability,  and  her 
golf  has  suffered  from  neglect  since  last 
summer.  However,'  she  is  an  avid  antiquer 
and  has  studied  her  reference  books  to  the 
point  where  she  not  only  knows  whether 
a  piece  is  authentic  or  not,  but  whether 
the  worm  leering  from  a  chair-rung  is 
tenth  or  twelfth  generation. 

As  previously  mentioned,  Paula  and  Hal 
now  have  three  daughters:  Martha,  fif- 
teen; Paula,  Jr.  thirteen;  Juliann,  nine 
And  as  things  stand  now,  Paula,  Jr.  thinks 
she,  too,  would  like  to  be  a  singer. 

There's  one  other  tidbit  about  Paula  Sr. 
that  you  should  know:  She  has  a  terrible 
time  shopping.  Not  long  ago,  she  absently 
picked  up  from  the  local  market  shelf 
a  product  not  advertised  on  the  Bob 
Crosby  show.  One  of  those  "innocent"  by- 
standers— who  should  be  shot — observed, 
"Wouldn't  you  think  that  people  who  are 
earning  a  living  by  advertising  a  certain 
product  would  buy  the  same  brand?" 

Tomahawk,  anyone? 

John  Drake  is  the  tall,  blond,  New 
Englandish  member  of  The  Mods.  He 
could  be  type-cast  as  a  successful  writer, 
a  popular  professor  in  a  Midwest  college, 
or  the  hero  of  Ray  Milland's  life  story. 
He's  the  librarian  and  the  bass  for  the 
Mods,  and — when  he  isn't  filing  or  bass- 
ing — he's  likely  to  be  playing  sax  for  kicks, 
or  working  in  his  garden.  He  is  an  expert 
at  dialects  and  can  reproduce  an  accent 
perfectly  after  a  little  exposure  to  same. 

Born  in  St.  Paul,  John  became  a  mu- 
sician at  nine,  when  he  was  given  a 
clarinet.  He  earned  his  way  through  college 
(U.  of  Missouri)  by  playing  for  college 
and  fraternity  dances.  .  .  .  Career-wise, 
he  has  played  and  sung  with  the  Slats 
Randall,  Emerson  Gill,  Dick  Stabile,  Eddy 
Duchin  and  Jan  Garber  organizations  be- 
fore he  joined  The  Mods  in  1942.  Seems 
that  Hal  Dickinson  had  caught  John  Drake 
one  Sunday  night  in  Chicago,  in  1940,  and 
had  kept  the  talented  bass  in  mind  until 
a  vacancy  in  the  anchor  department  of 
The  Mods  occurred. 

John  took  a  leave  of  absence  from  the 
group  during  the  war  years  when  he 
served  with  the  Coast  Guard.  John  is 
married  to  his  high-school  sweetheart  and 
they  have  two  daughters — Elizabeth,  six, 
and  Carole,  two — who  dig  up  dear  Daddy's 
petunias  in  order  to  have  a  little  gift  for 
him  when  he  comes  home  at  night. 


Fran  Scott  was  born  in  Huntingdon, 
Pennsylvania,  where  he  learned  to  play 
violin  in  a  home  not  too  closely  adjacent 
to  other  houses.  Next  came  banjo,  and — 
after  he  had  broken  his  leg  playing  foot- 
ball— he  embraced  the  bass  viol.  From 
strings,  he  went  to  the  trombone  .  .  .  and, 
recently,  after  having  noted  John  Drake's 
virtuosity  on  sax,  Fran  took  up  that  in- 
strument. He  has  challenged  his  fellow 
baritone  to  a  sax  duel,  and  a  rehearsal 
hall  is  being  cleared  at  CBS. 

Fran  started  his  career  by  spending 
four  years  with  Ray  Pearl,  then  worked 
with  Freddy  Martin,  Red  Norvo,  and  Blue 
Barron.  He  joined  The  Mods  in  1943,  and 
serves  as  chief  arranger  for  the  group. 
In  his  spare  time,  he  used  to  raise  boxer 
dogs,  but  his  wife,  Elsie  Mary  Cook,  dis- 
covered that  she  had  an  allergy  to  boxers, 
so  that  hobby  was  ended. 

Fran  is  a  shutterbug.  His  favorite  sub- 
jects are  son  Johnny,  eleven,  and  daughter 
Deborah,  nearly  three.  Also,  he  is  an 
antiquer  having  an  enthusiasm  quotient 
equal  to  that  of  Paula  Kelly  .  .  .  when  the 
Scotts  built  their  home  in  The  Valley,  the 
size  and  shape  of  the  rooms  were  deter- 
mined entirely  by  which  precious  piece  of 
early  Americana  was  to  go  where. 

Allan  Copeland,  youngest  in  point  of 
years  and  youngest  in  point  of  service 
with  the  quintet,  joined  the  group  in  1949. 
Before  that  he  had  been  a  member  of 
Los  Angeles'  famed  Mitchell  Boys'  Choir 
(Allan  was  born  in  L.A.)  and  had  sung 
his  way  through  University  High,  near 
the  University  of  California  at  Los 
Angeles.  ...  He  had  also  served  in  the 
U.S.  Navy,  married  Dolores  Barty,  and 
spent  a  year  with  Jan  Garber,  building 
vocal  group  arrangements,  singing,  and 
organizing  his  own  singing  combo,  The 
Twintones. 

When  a  vacancy  occurred  in  The  Mods' 
baritone-tenor  department,  Hal  Dickinson 
sent  for  Allan,  having  had  him  spotted  for 
some  time.  Allan  took  the  train  to  Min- 
neapolis to  join  the  group.  He  is  very 
inclined  toward  loud  sport  jackets,  in- 
candescent sport  shirts,  and  whatever 
sartorial  fashion  is  the  moment's  last 
word.  His  three  youngsters  (Christina,  six; 
Mike,  four;  Ricky,  just  past  one)  think 
he  is  a  visual  wonder. 

Clearly,  The  Modernaires  are — as  origin- 
ally stated — one  big,  happy  family.  All 
exchange  notes  on  how  to  be  successfully 
reared  as  parents.  All  are  steeped  in  music 
by  natural  inclination  and  training.  The 
Dickinsons  share  their  interest  in  antiques 
and  dog  raising  with  Fran  Scott.  Fran 
shares  his  gardening  hobby  and  his  mul- 
tiple-instrument rating  with  John  Drake. 
John  shares  his  interest  in  visual  music 
and  his  lyric-writing  ability  with  Allan 
.  .  .  and  Allan  shares  his  sports  outfits 
with  anyone  bold  enough  to  wear  them. 

Occasional  troubles?  Misunderstandings? 
Problems?  Every  family  has  them,  so  nat- 
urally The  Mods  must  expect  an  occasional 
rumble.  But,  years  ago,  Hal  Dickinson 
established  the  tradition  of  a  group  busi- 
ness meeting  on  the  first  day  of  every 
month.  It  is  known  affectionately  as  "the 
barbecue,"  because  everyone  is  expected 
to  bring  his  prize  beef.  The  session  has 
always  proved  to  be  a  picnic,  ending  in 
mutually  affectionate  agreement. 

Critics  believe  that  this  harmony  of 
personality  is  reflected  in  the  virtuosity  of 
their  recordings.  If  you  don't  now  own  the 
following  Modernaire  discs,  you  should 
add  them  to  your  library:  "Juke  Box 
Saturday  Night,"  "Dipsy  Doodle,"  "Salute 
to  Glenn  Miller,"  "To  Each  His  Own,"  and 
"April  in  Paris."  Prize  records  ...  to  go 
with  the  prize  record  of  one  big,  happy 
family — The  Modernaires. 


Lustre  -  Creme 
Shampoo... 


iHsfe-^e"* 


Cream  or  Lotion 


Neve?  Dries 


"Yes,  I  use  Lustre-Creme 
Shampoo,"  says  Deborah  Kerr. 
It's  the  favorite  of  4  out  of  5  top 
Hollywood  movie  stars! 

It  never  dries  your  hair!  Lustre- 
Creme  Shampoo  is  blessed  with 
lanolin  .  .  .  foams  into  rich  lather, 
even  in  hardest  water  .  .  .  leaves 
hair  so  easy  to  manage. 

It  beautifies!  For  soft,  bright,  fra- 
grantly clean  hair — without  special 
after-rinses — choose  the  shampoo  of 
America's  most  glamorous  women. 
Use  the  favorite  of  Hollywood  movie 
stars — Lustre-Creme  Shampoo. 


autifies ! 


*H, 


co-starring  in 

"THE  PROUD  AND  THE  PROFANE" 

A  Paramount  Picture  in  Vista  Vision. 


\\ 


Try 


WINSTON 


C,C*HETT    , 


■  "Take  it  from  me,"  says  "photographer"  Bob  Cummings, 
star  of  The  Bob  Cummings  Show  on  CBS-TV,  "this  filter 
cigarette  really  tastes  like  a  cigarette!"  The  exclusive  Winston 
filter  lets  the  flavor  come  through,  smooth  and  rich-tasting. 
Make  your  next  pack  Winston,  arid  enjoy  filter  smoking! 


Switch  to  WINSTON  America's  best-selling,  best-tasting  filter  cigarette! 


Rock  'n'  Roll 

IL?  A  MENACE?  OR  GOOD 
:0R  THE  YOUNG  AT  HEART? 


J 


PATRK 

The  Doctor's  Wife 

SONNY  FOX 

Meets  The 

$64,000  Challenge 


at  last ! 

A  LIQUID  SHAMPOO 
that's  EXTRA  RICH  I  4 


4 


JUST  POUR  IT... 
and  you'll  see  the  glorious  difference! 

Never  thin  and  watery  like  some 
liquid  shampoos  .  .  .  never  thick, 
a  "filming"  ingredient  that  can 
dull  hair  like  others.  Extra-Rich 
Liquid  Prell  has  just  the  right 
consistency— won't  run  and 
never  leaves  a  dulling  film! 


/ith 


And  you'll  love  PRELL  CONCENTRATE  - 
leaves  hair  extra  clean  .  .  .  extra  radiant! 

Not  a  cream— not  a  liquid— but  a  clear  shampoo 
concentrate  that  contains  more  cleansing  in- 
gredients, ounce  for  ounce,  than  any  other  type 
of  shampoo!  That's  why  Prell  Concentrate 
leaves  hair  extra  clean,  extra  radiant! 


PRlU 


CREATED    BY    PROCTER    &   GAMBLE 


c< 


Whatever  became  of  the  girl 
I  married?" 


They  say  one  partner  in  every  marriage  is  more  in  love  than  the 
other.  And  in  the  Millers'  case,  everyone  had  thought  it  was  she. 
Then,  almost  overnight,  her  affection  seemed  to  cool.  She  didn't 
want  his  kisses— she  avoided  his  embrace.  Poor  John!  He  never 
even  suspected  that  his  breath  might  be  to  blame. 
Why  risk  offending?  Listerine  stops  bad  breath  (halitosis)  instantly. 

The  most  common  cause  of  bad  breath  is 
germs  . . .  Listerine  kills  germs  by  millions 

By  far  the  most  common  cause  of  bad  breath  is  germs— germs  that 
ferment  protein  always  present  in  the  mouth.  Research  proves 
that,  the  more  you  reduce  these  germs,  the  longer  your  breath  stays 
sweeter.  And  Listerine  Antiseptic  kills  germs  on  contact— by  millions. 

No  tooth  paste  or  non-antiseptic  mouthwash 
kills  germs  the  way  Listerine  does 

Non-antiseptic  tooth  pastes,  mouthwashes  and  "breath  fresheners" 
can't  kill  germs  the  way  Listerine  does.  You  need  an  antiseptic  to 
kill  germs.  Listerine  IS  an  antiseptic— and  that's  why  it  stops  bad 
breath  four  times  better  than  any  tooth  paste.  Gargle  with  Listerine 
full-strength  to  keep  breath  fresher,  longer. 


i 


LISTERINE  ANTISEPTIC 

.  stops  bad  breath  4  times  better  than  any  tooth  paste 


Anne's 

mud*® 


PERI° 


DIC  PA'N 


do^n 


Mens 


.    ha(\  ^ne  w> 


iUgnUn\cK 


cratnps.^seS 
chases  *e 


lb\ues  • 


TV 


RADIO 
MIRROR 


SEPTEMBER,  1956 


N.  Y.,  N.  J.,  CONN.  EDITION 


VOL.  46,  NO.  4 


Ann  Higginbotham,  Editorial  Director 


Ann  Mosher,  Editor 
Teresa  Buxton,  Managing  Editor 
Claire  Safran,  Associate  Editor 
Sonia  Gould,  Assistant  Editor 


Jack  Zasorin,  Art  Director 

Frances  Maly,  Associate  Art  Director 

Joan  Clarke,  Art  Assistant 

Bud  Goode,  West  Coast  Editor 


PEOPLE  ON  THE  AIR 

What's  New  From  Coast  to  Coast by  Jill  Warren  12 

Time  for  Love  and  Laughter  (Peter  Lind  Hayes  and  Mary  Healy) 

by  Ed  Meyerson  25 

Rock  'n'  Roll  (wheres  and  whys,  pros  and  cons)... .by  Helen  Bolstad  28 

Man  Wanted!    (Elvis  Presley) by  Lilla   Anderson  32 

The  Saga  of  Sam  Levenson by  Everett  Moore  34 

Dramas   for   the   Daytime 

(My  True  Story,  When  A  Girl  Marries,  Whispering  Streets)  36 

So  in  Love,  So  in  Luck  (Don  Hastings) by  Elizabeth  Ball  50 

A  Woman  Is  Many  People   (Ruth  Warrick) by  Peter  Charade  52 

"Push  Button  Magic"    (Myron  Floren) by  Gordon  Budge  54 

Year  of  Dreams   (Mike  Wallace) by  Gladys  Hall  56 

In  Praise  of  Parents  (Mary  Linn  Beller) by  Marion  Helman  58 

Who's  Who  on  Stage  Show   (Tommy  and  Jimmy  Dorsey 

and  June  Taylor) 60 

Play  Editor   (pick  the  stars  and  stories  you  want  to  read  about)  72 

FEATURES  IN  FULL  COLOR 

The  Happy  Way  To  Win   (Carol  Richards) by  Bud  Goode  40 

Sonny  Fox  Meets  The  $64,000  Challenge by  Martin  Cohen  42 

Born  To  Be  Loved   (Patricia  Wheel) by  Frances  Kish  46 

You  Can't  Always  Tell  (John  Daly) by  Marie  Haller  48 

YOUR  LOCAL  STATION 

Beefcake    Plus 4 

At  Home  With  Kitty  (WWLP-TV) 6 

Bowling   Time 8 

Dr.  Jive   ( WWRL) 14 

YOUR   SPECIAL  SERVICES 

New  Patterns  for  You  (smart  wardrobe  suggestions) 16 

On  the  Record by  Joan  Wallace  18 

Information    Booth 20 

Inside  Radio    (program  listings) 68 

TV   Program   Highlights 70 

New  Designs  for  Living  (needlecraft  and  transfer  patterns) 84 

Cover  portrait  of  Peter  Lind  Hayes  and  Mary  Healy  by  Maxwell  Coplan 


BUY  YOUR  OCTOBER  ISSUE  EARLY  •  ON  SALE  SEPTEMBER  6 


i*u 


PUBLISHED  MONTHLY  by  Macfadden  Pub- 
lications,   Inc.,    New  York,    N.    Y. 
f.    EXECUTIVE,      ADVERTISING      AND      EDI- 
TORIAL    OFFICES      at     205      East     42nd 
Street,    New   York,    N.    Y.    Editorial  Branch 
Office:    6269    Selma    Ave.,    Hollywood    28, 
»    Calif.     Irving    S.    Manheimer,     President; 
"    Lee     Andrews,      Vice      President;      Meyer 
Dworkin,   Secretary  and  Treasurer.   Adver- 
tising offices  also  in   Chicago,    221    North 
LaSalle   Street,    and   San    Francisco. 

SUBSCRIPTION  RATES:  $3.00  one  year,  U.  S.  and 
Possessions  and  Canada.  $5.00  per  year  for  all  other 
countries. 

CHANGE  OF  ADDRESS:  6  weeks'  notice  essential.  When 
possible,  please  furnish  stencil-impression  address 
from  a  recent  issue.  Address  changes  can  be  made  only 
if  you  send  us  your  old,  as  well  as  your  new  address. 
Write  to  TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East  42nd  Street,  New 
York  17,  N.  Y. 
MANUSCRIPTS:   All  manuscripts  will  be  carefully  con- 


sidered, but  publisher  cannot  be  responsible  for  loss  or 
damage.  It  is  advisable  to  keep  a  duplicate  copy  for 
your  records.  Only  those  manuscripts  accompanied  by 
stamped,  self-addressed  return  envelopes  or  with  suffi- 
cient return  postage  will  be  returned. 
FOREIGN  editions  handled  through  Macfadden  Publi- 
cations International  Corp.,  205  East  42nd  Street,  New 
York  17,  N.  Y.  Irving  S.  Manheimer,  President;  Doug- 
las   Lockhart,    Vice   lr  resident. 

RE-ENTERED  as  Second  Class  Matter,  June  28,  1954, 
at  the  Post  Office  at  New  York.  N.  Y-,  under  the  Act  of 
March  3,  1879.  Authorized  as  Second  Class  mail.  P.  O. 
Dept.,  Ottawa,  Ont.,  Canada.  Copyright  1956  by  Mac- 
fadden Publications.  Inc.  All  rights  reserved  under  In- 
ternational Copyright  Convention.  All  rights  reserved 
under  Pan-American  Copyright  Convention.  Todos  de- 
rechos  reservados  segun  la  Convencion  Pan-Americana 
de  Propiedad  Literaria  y  Artistlca.  Title  trademark 
registered  in  U.S.  Patent  Office.  Printed  in  U.  S.  A. 
by    Art  Color  Printing   Company. 

Member    of    the    TRUE    STORY    Women's    Group 


New!  BOBBI- 


U 


ith  Casual  Curlets" 
and  breeze -fresh  lotion 


gives  you  a  longer  lasting 
softly  feminine  wave 


A  stronger  wave  than  ordinary  pin -curl  permanents 
a  softer  wave  than  rod-type  permanents 


Specially  created  for  casual  hair  styles 


Everything  you  need  for  the  prettiest,  longest-lasting 
casual  hairdo  ever!  Fabulous  new  easy-set  "Casual 
Curlets".  ...  of  pretty  pink  plastic  .  .  .  simpler  than 
metal  pins!  New  breeze-fresh,  petal-pink  lotion,  so 
pleasant  to  use!  No  separate  neutralizer,  no  reset- 
ting. OnlyBOBBl  makes  a  pin-curl  permanent  so  easy ! 


•HP*' 


w 


See  how  casual  a  bobbi  wave  can  be!  You  know  it 
will  outlast  any  other  pin-curl  permanent  because  each 
curl  is  set  stronger  from  the  very  beginning  with  bobbi's 
new  "Casual  Curlets."  Use  Curlets  between  perma- 
nents, too  — for  a  longer-lasting  set  after  your  shampoo. 


Pin-curls  made  with  BOBBl's 
new  "Casual  Curlets"  .  .   . 

smooth,  firm,  no  loose  ends,  no 
crimp  marks  as  with  metal  pins. 
Specially  designed  for  a  stronger, 
longer-lasting  casual  wave ! 

New  "Casual  Curlets"  are  7 
ways  better ! 

1.  Easier,  faster  than  metal  pins. 

2.  So  pretty— shell-pink  plastic— 
you  won't  want  to  hide  'em ! 

3.  Can't  rust  or  discolor  hair. 

4.  One  Curlet  holds  tight  for  bet- 
ter, stronger  waves— you  never 
need  two  for  a  curl ! 

5.  Can't  slip. 

6.  No  unsightly  crimp  marks. 

7.  Curlets  are  curved  — shaped  to 
your  head  for  comfort. 


All-new  BOBBI  in  a  bright  blue  box 

Each  package  complete  with  55  "Casual 
Curlets"  and  6  neckline  curlers. 


Beefcake  Plus 


For  seventeen  years,  Forrest  Tucker  has  been 
playing"  the   "heavy."     And,  in  fact,  the  man  is  a 
quadruple-threat  ...  as  a  six-foot-four,  blond,  blue- 
eyed    heart-throb    ...    as    a    broad-shouldered 
tournament  golfer  ...  as  the  sensitive  author  of  off- 
beat stories  and  plays  .  .  .  and  as  a  versatile,  veteran 
actor  who  swamped  the  switchboards  with  his  first 
live  TV  hour  on  Bob  Montgomery's  show.  .  .  .  Tuck  is 
now  a  "good  guy,"  as  Crunch  Adams  in  the  NBC 
Film  Division  series,  Crunch  And  Des,  based  on 
Philip  Wylie's  deep-sea  fishing  and  adventure  yarns. 
As  to  his  former  villainy,  Tuck  says  that  people 
have  got  him  wrong.     "I'm  just  a  good-natured 
Irishman,"  he  grins.     "I  just  like  to  laugh  it  up."  .  .  . 
Tuck's  father,  who  died  when  Tuck  was  four,  was  a 
professional  ball  player.     His  mother  was  a  singer 
and  piano  player  who  travelled  wherever  a  livelihood 
beckoned.  Born  in  Plainfield,  Indiana,  Tuck  attended 
some  seventeen  different  schools,  made  the  football, 
basketball,  track  and  tennis  teams  at  most  of  them, 
and  caught  a  wanderlust  he's  never  gotten  over. 
Early  along  the  route,  he  decided  to  be  an  actor.     At 
fourteen,  he  was  the  boy  at  whom  burlesque  queens 
tossed  their  props.     At  sixteen,  he  did  a  hitch  in  the 
Army,  then  headed  for  Hollywood  and  some  seventy 
feature  films.  .  .  .  Rugged  enough  to  squelch  any 
comment  on  his  sartorial  elegance,  Tuck  also  likes 
elegance  at  home.     He  met  his  wife,  Marilyn  Johnson, 
at  a  dance  at  Hollywood's  Studio  Club.     Tuck  turned 
to  John  Wayne,  said,  "I'm  going  to  marry  that  girl," 
and  did — a  year  later.     Tuck  has  a  daughter  by  a 
former  marriage,  Pamela  Brooke,  who's  five-nine 
and  going  on  twelve  years.  .  .  .  After  their  marriage, 
Marilyn  gave  up  her  dancing  career,  started  to  furnish 
the  Tucker  manse,  and  found  a  new  career  as  an 
interior  decorator.     The  Tuckers'  home  is  done  in 
Regency,  with  many  pieces  designed  by  Marilyn 
and  made  to  scale  for  Tuck's  size.  .  .  .  With  Marilyn, 
Tuck  ransacked  Europe  for  furniture,  paintings 
and  statuary.     In  Venice,  he  found  a  solid  gold-leaf, 
wood-carved  mirror  frame.     It  was  too  delicate  to  be 
shipped,  he  was  warned.     Determined,  Tuck  "wore" 
the  frame  around  his  shoulders  from  the  Piazza 
San  Marco  to  Hollywood  and  Vine.     The  picture 
is  that  of  a  he-man  with  a  yen — and  a  talent — for  art. 


There's  more  than  muscle 

to  Forrest  Tucker,  the 

he-man  star  of  Crunch  And  Des 


Partner  Des  is  played  by  Sandy  Kenyori,  Sari  by  Joanne  Bayes. 
Fisherman-author  Philip  Wylie  says  Tuck  is  Crunch's  "twin." 


Tuck  is  footloose,  ex-dancer  Marilyn  paces  him. 


Now    See  your  favorite 

TV  STARS  IN  COLOR 

on  the  biggest  screen  in  town! 


BARRY  NELSON 

Star  of 
"My  Favorite  Husband" 


DAVID  BRIAN        JAMES  ARNESS 


Famous  as 
"Mr.  District  Attorney" 


U.S.  Marshal     Matt  Dillon  of 
"Gunsmoke" 


co-starring 

DAVID  BRIAN 

JAMES  ARNESS 

Written  by  DEVERY  FREEMAN  and  STEPHEN  LONGSTREET 
Produced  and  Directed  by  ARTHUR  LUBIN 


COMING  TO  YOUR  FAVORITE  THEATRE  SOON 


AT  HOME 
WITH  KITTY 


Kitty  Broman's  favorite  evenings  are  the  casual  ones  she 
enjoys  with  her  foremost  fans — Karen,  Paul  and  Morgan. 


Even   Morgan   is  a   do-it-yourselfer, 
with  Mom's  lap  handy  for  reaching. 


For  diversion,   Kitty  takes  a  busman's  holiday,  scanning 
the  magazines  for  useful  ideas  in  household  decorating. 


For  food,  fashion  and  neighborliness, 
WWLP's  recipe  is  Kitty  Broman 


Kitty  Broman  not  only  has  an  expansive  personality, 
but  everywhere  she  goes,  expansion  seems  to  be  the 
order  of  the  day.   For  instance,  there  are  the  staff 
members  of  her  show,  At  Home  With  Kitty,  on  whom 
noticeable   expansion  of  avoirdupois   accumulates  every 
time  Kitty  whips  up  a  tasty  dish  for  them.   Then, 
there's  the  expanding  audience  she's  been  cultivating,  ever 
since  she  debuted  on  WWLP-TV  in  Springfield, 
Massachusetts.   And  now,  since  her  clients'  cash  registers 
are  becoming  noticeably  inflated,  chances  are  her 
weekday  show,  seen  afternoons  at  two,  is  in  for  some 
expansion.  .  .  .  Kitty's  sparkling  TV  personality  is  no 
more  restricted  to  the  camera  than  is  her  avid  interest  in 
things  domestic.    She  is  as  much  a  part  of  community 
life  in  Springfield  as  are  her  non-performing  neighbors. 
Hardly  a  day  passes  when  Kitty  doesn't  play  hostess  in 
her  own  home  to  friends  who  drop  in  for  a  chat  about 
her  latest  recipe  or  design.   And,  being  the  mother  of 
three,  Kitty  is  a  most  reliable  consultant  on  child  care.  .  .  . 
From  the  very  first,  the  course  of  Kitty's  career  was 
evident.   A  native  of  Pittsburgh,  Pennsylvania,  she 
attended  Carnegie  Tech,  where  she  specialized  in  interior 
decorating,  dressmaking  and  drama.    After  graduation, 
her  first  job  was  to  coordinate  the  spring  and  fall 
fashion  shows  for  a  major  department  store  in  her  home 
town.   By  1940,  she  decided  to  move  further  East.   There 
she  met  Paul  Broman,  an  insurance  executive  from 
Worcester,    Massachusetts.     These    two    were    promptly 
married  and,  when  Paul's  work  took  them  to  Springfield, 
Kitty  went  back  to  work.   In  1953,  WWLP  went  on  the 
air  and  William  L.  Putnam,  general  manager  of  the 
station,  spotted  Kitty  staging  fashion  shows  and  amateur 
theatricals.   Mr.  Putnam  decided  that  Kitty  was  just  the 
feminine  "ouch  his  station  needed.  .  .  .  Despite  her 
responsibilities  as  a  mother  to  Karen,  14,  Paul,  12,  and 
Morgan,  3 — which  she  handles  expertly — and  her  TV 
schedule,  Kitty  always  finds  time  to  lend  a  hand  in  staging 
local  shows.   But  most  of  all,  after  a  day  at  the  studio 
stove,  Kitty  Broman  enjoys  whipping  up  a  meal  for  her 
family — then  preparing  a  spread  for  nightly  guests.    No 
matter  where  she  is,  the  effervescent  charmer  gives 
everyone  that  expansive,  At  Home  With  Kitty  feeling. 


HOW  MANY  FEATHERS  ON 
A  MALLARD? 


Add  up  the  figures  and  find  out.  Most  anybody  can  add,  but  can 
you  add  correctly?  The  reason  people  like  number  puzzles  is 
because  they  are  fascinating.  Fun  right  in  your  own  home,  and 
CASH  REWARDS  for  the  WINNERS.    Try  it  yourself. 


h     4 


$6360.00  IN  75  CASH  PRIZES  %%%&<&>> 


(NOW  ON  DEPOSIT) 

FIRST  PRIZE  $1500  plus  $500  Bonus  for  Promptness  (see  rule  2) 

Second    Prize $1000.00  9th  to  13th  Prize,  each.  .  .  .$100.00 

Third    Prize $500.00  14th  to   18th  Prize,  each.  .  .    $50.00 

Fourth   Prize $350.00  19th  to  44th  Prize,  each.  .  .    $25.00 

5th  to  8th  Prize,  each $200.00  45th  to  75th  Prize,  each.  .  .    $10.00, 

—  HERE  ARE  THE  RULES  — 


^ 


1.  This  is  entirely  a  contest  of  num- 
bers, strictly  a  Game  of  Skill.  Add  to- 
gether the  numbers  that  make  up  the 
drawing  of  the  Mallard  and  get  the  SUM 
TOTAL  of  the  figures.  The  picture  Is 
made  up  of  single  digits:  2,  3,  4,  5,  7, 
8  and  9.  There  are  no  sixes,  no  ones,  no 
zeros.  There  are  no  double  numbers  like 
"23",  etc.  Just  add  2  plus  3  plus  5,  etc., 
and  get  the  SUM  TOTAL.  There  are 
no  tricks  to  this  puzzle,  just  a  problem 
in  addition.  It  is  not  so  easy  but  if  you 
are  careful  you  may  get  it  exactly  right. 
Only  persons  sending  a  $5.00  contribution 
to  our  Scholarships  Program  are  eligible 
for  these  Cash  Prizes.  No  additional 
donation  will  be  required  at  any  time 
during  the  contest.  Checks  and  Money 
Orders  should  be  made  payable  to 
'SCHOLARSHIPS,  INC  Send  cash  if 
yon  prefer.  Write  ns  for  additional 
pnzzle  sheets  if  you  need  them. 

2.  If  you  send  your  contribution  before 
the  date  printed  on  the  entry  blank  you 
will  qualify  for  the  $500  Promptness 
Bonus,  making  the  total  First  Prize 
$2000.00.  The  Promptness  Bonus  will  be 
added  to  the  first  prize  only. 

3.  You  should  check  and  recheck  your 
solution  carefully  before  mailing.  Once 
it  has  been  sent  it  may  not  be  changed 
or  withdrawn.  A  contestant  may  submit 
an  additional  entry  in  this  contest  with 
an  improved  score  provided  each  such 
entry  is  accompanied  by  the  required 
$5.00  contribution.  We  will  acknowledge 
receipt  of  your  entry  and  contribution 
promptly.  Read  the  rules  carefully. 
Please  do  not  write  for  additional  Infor- 
mation   concerning    this    contest    since 


Miss  Fhillis  Jordan 
is  one  of  21  nurses 
in  training  at  Cin- 
cinnati Hospitals  un- 
der our  Scholarships 
and  writes:  "It  has 
always  been  ray  de- 
sire to  be  a  nurse 
and  my  scholarship 
has  made  that  dream 
possible.  My  grateful 
thanks  to  those  asso- 
ciated with  Scholar- 
ships,  Inc." 


information  that  is  not  available  to  all 
other  contestants  cannot  be  given. 

4.  This  contest  is  confined  to  persons 
within  the  continental  limits  of  the  United 
States.  Persons  directly  connected  with 
Scholarships,  Inc.  and  members  of  their 
immediate  families  are  ineligible.  Due 
to  the  uncertainty  of  mail  address  entries 
are  not  recommended  from  persons  in 
the  Armed  Forces.  Entries  will  not  be 
accepted  from  persons  in  Alaska,  Can- 
ada, Hawaiian  Islands  and  other  loca- 
tions outside  of  the  United  States  proper. 

5.  Entries  will  be  accepted  from  July 
1  to  October  10,  1956.  Entries  post- 
marked October  10  will  be  accepted. 

6.  In  case  of  ties  on  this  Mallard  Puz- 
zle the  winners  will  be  decided  by  a  tie- 
breaker number  puzzle  consisting  of 
drawing  a  path  across  a  chart  of  numbers 
to  arrive  at  a  high  total.  The  contestant's 
position  in  the  winning  list  will  be  deter- 
mined by  the  best  scores  submitted;  the 
best  answer  will  receive  First  Prize,  the 
second  best  answer  will  receive  Second 
Prize,  etc.  In  case  of  ties  on  the  tie- 
breaker puzzle,  prizes  will  be  reserved 
for  the  positions  of  tied  contestants  and 
their  final  order  of  finish  determined  by 
additional  tiebreaker  puzzles  until  a  def- 
inite winner  for  each  prize  is  chosen. 
Seven  days  will  be  allowed  for  working 
the  first  tiebreaker  puzzle  and  three 
days  for  each  subsequent  tiebreaker.  If 
ties  remain  after  seven  tiebreaker  puz- 
zles, duplicate  prizes  will  be  paid. 

7.  It  is  permissible  for  any  contestant 
to  receive  help  from  their  relatives  or 
friends    but    ONLY    ONE    SOLUTION 


may  be  submitted  to  the  tiebreaker 
puzzle  by  any  group  working  together, 
and  any  solution  known  to  have  been 
submitted  in  violation  of  this  rule  will 
be  rejected. 

8.  A  complete  report  of  this  contest 
including  the  names  of  all  winners  will 
be  mailed  to  every  contestant  just  as 
soon  as  the  winners  have  been  decided. 
The  sponsors  of  this  contest  reserve  the 
right  to  decide  any  questions  that  may 
arise  during  the  contest  and  persons 
who  enter  agree  to  accept  these  deci- 
sions as  final, 

C.  L.  KITTLE,  Manager 

Here  is  a  contest  soon  over  and  soon 
paid  off.  The  rules  are  simple  and  com- 
plete. It's  entirely  a  contest  of  numbers, 
strictly  a  game  of  skill.  We  print  the 
winning  answer  with  the  name  and  ad- 
dress of  the  winner,  in  fact  we  print  the 
names  and  scores  of  all  of  the  winners. 
A  pencil  is  the  only  tool  required  and 
you  start  on  an  equal  basis  with  every- 
one else.  No  pictures  to  identify,  no 
statements  to  write.  If  you  have  never 
taken  part  in  a  number  pnzzle  contest 
why  not  give  it  a  try.  Give  yourself  a 
fair  chance  to  succeed.  This  may  be  the 
hobby  you  have  been  looking  for.  Oper- 
ated by  a  non-profit  corporation  re- 
quired by  its  charter  to  devote  receipts 
in  excess  of  prizes,  advertising  and  legi- 
timate operating  expenses  to  charitable 
purposes. 


Mail  to  SCHOLARSHIPS,  INC.,  Box  241,  Lawrenceburg,  Ind. 

There  are feathers  on  the  Mallard. 

Type  your  name  and  address  if  possible.    If  not  print  by  hand. 

Name 


Address.. 
City 


1 


Zone.. 


State.. 


Donations  mailed  before  SEPTEMBER  14,  1956,  qualify  for  Promptness  Bonus. 


On  the  ball,  top  bowler  Junie  McMahon  talks 
strikes  and  spares  with   "student"   Fran   Miller. 


Poses  are  tor  the  camera  only. 
When  work  is  done,  Fran  shops, 
does  housework,  watches  TV — and 
dreams  of  becoming  a  model  wife. 


BOWLING 
TIIVIE 


Up    her 

champion 


alley,    Fran    Miller    learns    quickly   with 
kegler  Lee  Jouglard  as  her  instructor. 


There  are  strikes  to  spare  on  Bowling  Time, 
a  Sterling  Television  production.    Champion 
keglers  from  the  American  League  of 
Bowling  compete.   Fans  in  the  audience  try 
for  difficult  splits,  and  celebrity  guests  take 
their  stand  at  the  head  of  the  alley.    And 
then  there  is  the  girl  who  really  bowls  them 
over — but  more  of  Fran  Miller  later.  .  .  .  The 
kingpin  of  the  show  is  emcee-producer 
Sam  Levine.   Genial  and  fortyish,  Sam 
publishes   the   Cleveland  Kegler,  sponsors 
Charity  Bowling  Week  in  Cleveland,  and 
predicts:    "Bowling  is  well  on  the  way  to  be- 
coming our  newest  national  pastime."    Sam 
is  a  native  Clevelander  and  was  a  member 
of   Sammy   Kaye's   band   during   his   under- 
graduate days  at  Ohio  University.   He  is 
married  and  has  two  daughters.  .  .  .  But  to  get 
back  to   the  blonde.    Fran  Miller,   who  was 
voted  the  outstanding  model  of  1955,  takes 
lessons  on  Bowling  Time  and,  as  a  result, 
averages  in  the  170's.    Her  mentor  is  Lee 
Jouglard  of  Detroit,  who  was  "Bowler  of  the 
Year"  for  1950-51,  holds  an  ABC  average 
of   201   and  has   bowled   eight   sanctioned   300 
games.  He  is  married  and  the  father  of  three. 
.  .  .  But  back  to  the  blonde.  Fran  has  just 
turned  twenty,  has  blue  eyes  and  stands 
five-four-and-a-half.  Currently,  she's  almost 
exclusively  a  TV  model.  Formerly,  she  was 
cheerleader  at  Hempstead  High,  on  Long  Is- 
land. She  is  domesticated,  lives  in  Hempstead 
with   her   family,   and   loves   to   cook   and 
shop.  Her  ambition  is  to  marry  that  handsome 
local  boy  she's  known  for  so  long — and  then 
raise  a  large  family.    She's  the  most  striking 
thing  in  any  alley — the  very  model  of  a  model. 


TO  INTRODUCE  NEW  LARGE  IVORY 


" 


FREE  Hazel  Bishop  lipstick  (worth  79*) 

...  a  sriade  for  every  liair  color 


JUST  SEND  4  WRAPPERS 

PROM  NEW  LARGE -SIZE  IVORY 


Today,  more  than  ever,  your  beauty  care 

with  pure,  mild  Ivory  Soap  is  a  perfect 

snap !  For  the  first  time,  Large  Ivory  snaps 

apart  into  2  perfect  toilet-size  cakes — 

one  for  your  complexion  and  one  for  your 

bath.  Now  it's  easier  than  ever  to  make  that 

fresh,  clear  look — That  Ivory  Look — yours. 

And  to  celebrate  Ivory's  new  Twin-Cake, 

here's  a  gift  for  you — a  790  Hazel  Bishop 

Once-a-Day  lipstick  for  just  4  special  Large 

Ivory  wrappers.  It's  the  amazing  lipstick 

you  can  put  on  in  the  morning  and 

be  sure  your  lips  stay  radiant  'til  night. 

You'll  love  its  swivel  case,  too!  So  mail  in 

your  coupon  now  .  .  .  supplies  are  limited. 


PROCTER  &  GAMBLE,  DEPT.  22  B 

Cincinnati,  Ohio 

Enclosed  are  4  special  Large  Ivory  wrappers. 

Please  send  me  free  Hazel  Bishop  Lipstick. 

My  hair  color  is:  fj  Blonde  □  Brunette 

□  Brownette  □  Red  [J  Grey 


ZONE. 


Offer  good  only  in  continental  V.  S.  A., 
including  Alaska  and  Hawaii.  Offer  expires 
Jan.  31 st,  1957.  Allow  3  weeks  for  delivery. 


Look,  it's  here!  The  first  and  only 


Richard  Hudnut's  NEW  SILICONED  PIN-QUICK 
Weather  can't  weaken  it!  Water  can't  wash  it  out! 
Guaranteed  to  last  longer!  5  times  faster,  start  to  finish! 


Weatherproof  Pin-Curl  Permanent 


■ 


You  know  how  ordinary  pin-curl  permanents  are :  they 
start  to  fade  from  the  first  shampoo,  wilt  on  the  first 
damp  day.  But  Pin-Quick  curls  are  locked  in  to  last 
till  you  cut  them  off.  You  can  get  a  softer,  casual  pin-curl 
wave  that  can't  weaken  in  wet  weather.  Can't  wash 
out.  With  miracle-working  Silicone,  Pin-Quick  helps 
keep  your  hair  soft,  lustrous,  far  easier  to  manage! 

And  Pin-Quick's  new  Lano-Clear  Wave  Lotion  makes 
longer  lasting  curls,  while  it  protects  them  with  lanolin. 
Pin-Quick's  5  times  faster,  too.  Unlike  other  pin-curl 
permanents,  you  can  dry  it  safely  in  minutes  with  a 
dryer  or  in  the  sun.  See  how  beautiful  a  wave  can  be — 
when  it's  New  Weatherproof  Pin-Quick!  *150  plus  tax 


5  times  faster!  Dries  in  the  sun  or  with  a  dryer  in  minutes. 

RICHARD    HUDNUT    GUARANTEES    NEW    PIN-QUICK    TO    LAST    LONGER 
THAN   ANY   OTHER   PIN-CURL   PERMANENT— OR   YOUR   MONEY   BACK! 


See  your  skin  look  cleaner,  finer, 
clearer,  smoother  in  just  10  days! 

•  Ordinary  skin  cleansers  were  never  made 
for  modern  make-ups! 

New-formula  Lady  Esther  4-Purpose  Face  Cream 
is  the  modern  cream  especially  blended 

to  clean,  soften,  refine,  and  protect 
your  complexion  from  the  clogging,  drying, 
aging  effects  of  make-up! 

Try  it  tonight — cream  or  liquid. 
Then  sleep  tight  with  a  radiantly  clean  skin 
safe  from  "make-up  damage." 


12 


purpose 
■face    cream 


♦•PURPOSE  f0S3  FACE  CREJK 


</adfy  SitfilA. 


©l956,Lady  Esther,  EH 


What's  New 


Portable  camera  and  transceiver  will  aid 
NBC's    Chet    Huntley    at    conventions. 


The  big  excitement  in  the  broadcasting 
world  at  the  moment  is  the  forthcoming 
Democratic  Convention  in  Chicago,  from 
the  thirteenth  to  the  seventeenth  of  August, 
with  the  Republican  Convention  following, 
in  San  Francisco,  from  the  twentieth  to  the 
twenty-fourth  of  August.  Each  network  is 
sending  literally  hundreds  of  people  to 
both  conventions  to  insure  complete  cover- 
age, both  on  radio  and  television.  Anchor 
men  will  be:  Walter  Cronkite,  CBS-TV; 
Robert  Trout,  CBS  Radio;  Chet  Huntley, 
NBC;  and  John  Daly  for  ABC — with  every 
top  newsman  and  commentator  from  each 
network  assigned  to  the  exciting  proceed- 
ings. In  1952,  surveys  showed  that  approxi- 
mately twenty  million  persons  saw  the 
conventions  on  television,  and  this  time  it 
is  estimated  that  the  figure  will  be  about 
eighty  million,  possibly  more. 

CBS-TV  designed  a  special  Sunday  aft- 
ernoon show,  The  Bandwagon,  which 
started  a  couple  of  weeks  ago,  as  a  public 
affairs  program  to  "educate"  the  public  in 
all  matters  pertaining  to  political  conven- 
tions. The  program  will  include  interesting 
background  material  as  to  how  political 
conventions  started,  the  stories  of  past 
elections,  and  so  on.  The  Bandwagon  will 
run  straight  through  till  September,  ex- 
plaining and  interpreting  the  political  scene. 

Frankie  Carle  And  His  Girl  Friends  take 
over  the  Tuesday  night  segment  of  the 
Dinah  Shore  Show,  on  NBC-TV,  for  the 
balance  of  the  summer  season,  while  Dinah 
"vacations"  playing  night  clubs  and  mak- 
ing records.  "The  Girl  Friends"  will  be 
guest  female  vocalists,  while  Frankie,  his 
piano  and  his  orchestra  hold  down  the 
musical  fort.  Snooky  Lanson,  the  Hit  Pa- 
rade baritone,  will  be  in  charge  of  the 
Thursday  night  quarter-hour.  Dinah  re- 
turns with  her  own  cast,  to  start  her  fall 
schedule  on  Tuesday  night,  September  18. 

ABC-TV  will  present  a  special  program 
for  small-fry  viewers,  The  Red  Goose  Kid- 


from  COAST  to  COAST 


By  JILL  WARREN 


: 


Monitor's  one  year  old.   The  show's  Melody  Gal,  Lorna  Lynn  (left),  cele- 
brates with  Miss  Monitor,  Tedi  Thurman,  who  whispers  sultrily  of  weather. 


Don    McNeill    meets    Peter    Donald — at 
last.  Peter's  subbed  for  Don  for  five  years. 


die  Spectacular,  on  Saturday  morning, 
August  25.  Johnny  Olsen  will  emcee  the 
hour-and-a-half  show,  which  will  be  based 
on  the  theme  of  old-time  vaudeville  on  the 
Mississippi  river  boats.  Part  of  the  pro- 
gram will  originate  from  the  world-famous 
St.  Louis  Zoo.  There  will  be  a  dancing 
elephant  act,  lions,  and  other  performing 
animals,  and  all  manner  of  variety  items  to 
amuse  the  youngsters.  ABC  is  also  plan- 
ning two  more  kiddie  specs,  one  in  October 
and  another  in  December. 

Conductor  David  Rose  has  been  signed 
to  take  over  the  baton  on  The  Woolworth 
Hour,  the  fine  musical  program  on  CBS 
Radio,  on  three  Sunday  afternoons  this 
month.  He  pinch-hits  for  Percy  Faith,  who 
is  vacationing  in  Europe. 

The  World  Music  Festivals,  also  on  CBS 
Radio  Sunday  afternoons,  will  present  the 
Holland  Festival  on  August  19  and  26.  The 
Czech  Philharmony  of  Prague  will  be 
heard,  with  Karl  Ancerl  as  its  conductor, 
in  its  first  American  broadcast  since 
Prague  fell  behind  the  Iron  Curtain.  The 
Concertgebouw  Orchestra  of  Amsterdam 
will  also  be  heard.  The  Bach  Festival,  at 
Ansbach,  Germany,  is  scheduled  for  Sep- 
tember 2  and  9,  with  violinist  Yehudi 
Menuhin,  the  Leipzig  St.  Thomas  Choir 
and  the  Munich  Bach  Choir  performing. 

September  7  is  the  starting  date  of  a  new 
filmed  series  on  ABC-TV,  The  Adventures 
Of  Jim  Bowie.  The  show  will  be  seen  ev- 
ery Friday  night,  and  stars  Scott  Forbes 
as  Bowie,  the  famous  American  frontiers- 
man, who  died  at  The  Alamo.  The  ABC 
folk  are  very  excited  about  this  program, 
and  feel  that  Bowie  will  become  the  big 
hero  this  year,  as  Davy  Crockett  was  a 
couple  of  seasons  back. 

At  the  very  last  minute,  NBC  cancelled 
The  Paul  Whiteman  Show  as  its  Tuesday 
night  summer  music  half-hour,  with  the 
explanation  that  the  show  wasn't  ready. 
Instead,  This  Is    (Continued  on  page  15) 


Rooftop  becomes  a  stage  as  Skitch  Henderson,  Steve  Allen,  Bambi 
Linn  and  Rod  Alexander  rehearse  for  Steve's  Sunday  variety  show. 


13 


DR.  «JI\/E 

The  teen  pulse  beats  in  time  to  rock  9n"  roll — but 
WWRUs  Tommy  Smalls  says  oldsters  are  hipsters,  too 


f  -«*3KfJ?- 

1  ^M 

■p^'I^H 

iw  *t^^^H 

js^ss      K5" 

'  /^ 

fH 

f^^flnfl 

H^rd 

i^Npfc.'' 

Tommy  gets  news  of  his  fan  club  from  Evelyn 
"Squeekie"  Rowe,  pres,  and  Arlene  "Peaches" 
Flanagan,  veep.  Above,  he  beats  the  drums 
for  rock  'n'  roll  with  star  Jayne  Mansfield. 


14 


Joshua  captured  Jericho  with  music.    Tommy  Smalls 
has  done  likewise  to  New  York.  Five  years  ago, 
this    Georgian   marched   north    to    Gotham    and    settled 
behind  a  turntable  and  a  WWRL  microphone.  It  was 
historic.  .  .  .  First  off,  the  dynamic  invader  acquired  the 
title  of  "Dr.  Jive,  the  medical  hipster."  He  prescribed 
rock  'n'  roll  on  The  Dr.  Jive  Show,  heard  Monday 
through  Saturday  from  3:05  to  5:30  P.M. — emanating 
from   WWRL's   Woodside   studios — and   weekdays   from 
10:30  to  midnight  and  Saturday  from  10  to  midnight 
— emanating  from  Small's  Paradise,  an  uptown 
landmark  which  Tommy  also  acquired.  .  .  .  Tommy 
piloted  the  Dr.   Jive   moniker  to  national  fame   and  a 
100,000  fan  club  following.   Then  Dr.  Jive  began  to 
acquire  other  titles.    Some  people  called  him  "father" 
of  rock  'n'  roll.    Others  said  he  was  "king."    Thousands 
elected  him  Honorary  Mayor  of  Harlem,  the  first  disc 
jockey  to  be  so  honored.  It  was  all,  in  the  language 
of  rock  'n'  roll,  "very  dap."   And  it  all  confirmed  some 
of  Tommy's  pet  theories.  .  .  .   This  peppery  twenty- 
seven-year  old  has  been  spinning  rock  'n'  roll,  under  the 
name  of  rhythm  and  blues,  since  1946,  when  he  first 
went  on  the  air  down  South.    At  that  time,  he  grins, 
he  was   "a   crusading   newspaperman."    One   of   his 
crusades  was  to  get  the  local  radio  station  to  hire  a  negro. 
When  the  prospective  announcer  had  to  leave  for  the 
Navy,  Tommy  substituted  and  found  himself  a  new 
career — and  a  new  crusade.  .  .  .  "No  form  of  music 
today  expresses  itself  like  rock  'n'  roll,"  he  says.     It 
doesn't,  Tommy  insists,   only  appeal  to   teenagers.    His 
in-person  revues  at  the  Brooklyn  Paramount  and 
Apollo  Theaters  are  crowded  with  older  folks,  who 
wait  in  line  just  as  long  as  the  youngsters.    And,  in 
answer   to    those    who    associate    rock    'n'    roll   with 
delinquency,  Tommy  says:  "I  want  to  tell  you  something. 
A  teenager  can't  stick  up  a  store  or  be  a  delinquent 
when  he's  listening  to  music  or  rising  early  in  the 
morning  to  stand  in  line  all  day  to  attend  a  show. 
When  I  was  growing  up,  it  was  the  big  band  era.   Now 
it's  rock  'n'  roll.    Every  parental  generation  has  listened 
to  the  music  the  youngsters  dig  and  said  it  was  bad 
for  them.   But  what  was  bad  for  the  parents  when 
they  were  young?    It's  the  music  that  today  is  called 
'standards,'  the  music  we  now  accept."  .  .  .  Tommy 
spends  much  of  his  free  time  combating  delinquency — 
working  with  PAL,  with  community  centers,  giving 
record  hops.  Tommy  Smalls  is  still  crusading.  And,  while 
music  can't  cure  all  that  ails  the  world,  Dr.  Jive  thinks 
rock  'n'  roll  is  mighty  potent  medicine. 


Backstage  at  one  of  his  Apollo  Theater  revues,  Tommy 
listens  to  guitar  by  Bo  Diddley,  leading  rock  V  roller. 


On  inauguration  day,  Mayor  Tommy,  with  his  court  of 
models,  is  congratulated  by  catcher  Roy  Campanella. 


What's  New 
from  COAST  to  COAST 

(Continued  from  -page  13) 

Show  Business,  with  Clifton  Fadiman  as 
emcee,  was  substituted.  The  Whiteman 
program  may  wind  up  with  a  fall  spot  later. 

Robert  Q.  Lewis  signed  a  terrific  contract 
with  CBS  Radio,  to  run  for  three  years,  at 
oodles  of .  boodle.  Lewis  continues  his 
Saturday  morning  network  program,  and 
in  the  early  fall  he  is  slated  to  take  over 
Jack  Carson's  time  for  a  Monday-through- 
Friday  program.  He  plans  to  use  Judy 
Johnson,  Merv  Griffin  and  the  Ray  Blocli 
orchestra,  all  from  his  former  TV  cast. 

Arthur  Godfrey  notified  all  his  cast  that 
none  of  their  contracts  would  be  renewed 
for  next  season,  but  that  they  all  might  be 
used  on  his  shows  from  time  to  time.  Frank 
Parker's  contract  expired  on  June  30,  and 
Carmel  Quinn's  is  up  soon.  The  McGuire 
Sisters  have  never  had  a  signed  deal  with 
Arthur,  and  have  just  worked  on  a  week- 
to-week  basis.  Lately  they  have  only  ap- 
peared sporadically,  owing  to  their  heavy 
night-club  bookings.  Janette  Davis  has 
been  doing  lots  of  production  work  on  all 
the  Godfrey  programs,  and  will  probably 
continue  to  perform  as  a  singer,  too,  from 
time  to  time.  Singer  Pat  Roone  might  be 
termed  an  irregular-regular,  and  he  has 
an  arrangement  with  Godfrey  to  appear 
whenever  Godfrey  wants  him,  if  he  can. 

This  V  That: 

Hallmark  Hall  Of  Fame  has  plans  for 
their  first  show  in  the  fall.  They  want  to 
present  the  smash  Broadway  play,  "Born 
Yesterday,"  with  Kim  Novak,  no  less, 
starring  in  the  role  Judy  Holliday  did  on 
stage  and  in  the  movie.  Needless  to  say,  if 
they  are  successful  in  getting  Kim,  whose 
work  in  Columbia  Pictures'  film,  "Picnic," 
was  so  spectacular,  they'll  make  the  show 
into  a  super-super  production. 

The  Andrews  Sisters  finally  patched  up 
their  two-and-a-half  year  feud  and  are 
working  together  again  as  a  singing  trio. 
They  broke  up  in  Las  Vegas  in  1953,  and 
ironically  their  first  professional  reunion 
was  also  in  Las  Vegas.  The  Andrews  gals 
were  the  number-one  singing  trio  for 
years,  and  if  they  can  still  make  the  same 
musical  sound  together,  they  should  find 
themselves  very  busy  on  television  and 
radio  this  fall. 

Leo  Durocher  has  signed  a  new  one- 
year  contract  with  NBC.  The  former  base- 
ball player  and  manager  of  The  New  York 
Giants  will  work  in  Hollywood  in  the 
field  of  talent  relations.  His  original  deal 
with  NBC  last  year  also  called  for  him  to 
appear  as  a  guest  on  variety  shows,  but 
"The  Lip's"  success  as  a  performer  was 
rather  dubious,  so  his  new  arrangement 
will  find  him  in  greasepaint  very  seldom. 

Of  special  interest  to  the  millions  of  fans 
of  the  late  James  Dean  is  a  fall  TV  spec- 
tacular in  the  works  at  ABC.  The  network 
hopes  to  do  an  hour-long  film  show  on 
Dean's  career,  including  clips  from  all  his 
movies,  his  original  screen  test,  and  a  kine- 
scope of  his  first  television  show.  The  time 
and  date  will  be  announced  in  a  few  weeks. 

Bob  Elliott  and  Ray  Goulding,  better 
known  as  Bob  and  Ray,  have  formed  their 
own  commercial-producing  corporation 
and  hope  to  have  some  of  their  product 
ready  for  fall.  If  the  lads  can  come  up 
with  sponsors'  messages  half  as  hilarious 
as  their  Piel  Brothers  beer  pitches,  they'll 
be  a  smashing  success. 

Edward  R.  Murrow  is  trying  very  hard 
to  get  the  Duke  and  Duchess  of  Windsor 
(Continued  on  page  17) 


^jw., 


* 


this  is  ho*  y°u 


feel. 


.OUrf/L 


^  Oj 


Cashmere 
Bouquet 

TAUJU»  POWDER 


Conover  Girls  Hck 
Cashmere  Bouquet 

sssSr 

Cashmere  *»»£•» ^ 

ease  on  smoothly. 
Says       __^ 

GWm  Jones 

u„rrv  Conover) 


15 


Go  without  worry — without  fear  or  favor. 
Go  in  complete  comfort,  by  plane,  train 
or  automobile.  Go  wherever  you  wish — 
do  whatever  you  want — pay  no  heed  to 
"time  of  the  month" — use  Tampax! 

Tampax  is  the  best  contribution  to  a 
relaxed  vacation  since  the  invention  of 
shorts.  For  honestly,  you  aren't  even 
aware  that  you're  wearing  Tampax! 

The  compressed  cotton  of  which  it's 
made  is  so  perfectly  designed  (by  a  doctor, 
at  that)  that  many  Tampax  users  insist 
they  tend  to  forget  about  time-of-the- 
month  completely.  Certainly  no  normal 
activity  is  barred  to  you — not  even  swim- 
ming. Tampax  is  completely  invisible 
under  a  beach-dry  or  sopping  wet,  fresh- 
from-the-pool  swim  suit! 

Above  all,  Tampax  is  cool— the  coolest 
sanitary  protection  you  can  wear  because 
it's  worn  internally.  It  prevents  odor  from 
forming.  It  eliminates  belts,  pins  and 
chafing  pads.  It's  so  designed  that  the 
wearer's  hands  need  not  touch  it  at  any 
time.  And  when  it  comes  to  the  disposal 
problem,  Tampax  even  faces  up  to  the 
unruly  plumbing  that  so  often  exists  at 
vacation  resorts.  You're  never  embar- 
rassed with  Tampax. 

Choice  of  3  absorbencies  (Regular, 
Super,  Junior)  at  any  drug  or  notion 
counter.  Take  Tampax  on  your  vacation! 
Tampax  Incorporated,  Palmer,  Mass. 


New  Patterns 


for  You 


4521 — Use  a  100-lb.  feedbag  or  a  gay  rem- 
nant— sew  this  handy  apron  in  a  jiffy! 
Misses'  Sizes  Small  (10,  12);  Medium  (14, 
16);  Large  (18,  20).  All  given  sizes,  1% 
yards  39-inch  fabric.  Transfer  included  for 
pocket.  State  size.  35^ 

9002 — The  long-waisted  look  for  half-sizers 
— no  fashion  more  flattering  to  the  shorter, 
fuller  figure!  Half  Sizes  14%-24y2.  Size 
16y2  takes  3%  yards  35-inch;  %  yard  con- 
trast.   State  size.  35^ 

9029 — The  long,  long  look  is  most  beauti- 
fully displayed  by  this  new  dress — in  a  low 
'n'  lovely  waist,  atop  a  graceful  full  skirt. 
Misses'  Sizes  10-18.  Size  16  takes  4%  yards 
39-inch  fabric.  State  size.  35^ 


9002 

SIZES 
J4'/2-24'/2 


10—  18 


Send  thirty-five  cents  (in  coins)  for  each  pattern  to:  TV  Radio  Mirror,  Pattern  Depart- 
ment, P.O.  Box  137,  Old  Chelsea  Station,  New  York  11,  New  York.  Add  five  cents  for 
each    pattern    for    first-class    mailing.     Be    sure    to    specify    pattern    number    and    size. 


16 


What's  New 
from  COAST  to  COAST 

(Continued  from  page  15) 

to  okay  a  Person  To  Person  visit  to  their 
apartment  in  the  Waldorf  Astoria  Towers 
in  New  York.  If  the  couple  give  their  con- 
sent, Murrow  hopes  to  schedule  them  for 
his  first  program  in  the  fall. 

"Much  Ado  About  Me,"  the  late  Fred 
Allen's  autobiography,  will  be  published 
by  Little,  Brown  &  Co.  in  a  few  weeks. 
The  book  covers  his  Boston  background 
and  his  vaudeville  career,  with  many 
interesting  anecdotes  about  his  fascinating 
life  and  career. 

Five-year-old  Richard  Keith  has  been 
added  to  the  cast  of  I  Love  Lucy  for  the 
new  series  on  CBS-TV  this  fall.  Richard 
will  play  the  role  of  little  Ricky,  son  of 
Ricky   and   Lucy   Ricardo. 

Singer  Pat  Boone  expects  an  encore 
from  the  stork.  This  will  be  Pat's  second 
child.  Arthur  Godfrey's  young  singer  also 
expects  to  continue  his  studies  at  Colum- 
bia University  this  fall. 

Wally  Cox,  whose  Mr.  Peepers  has  been 
missed,  is  looking  at  the  world  through 
rose-colored  spectacles  again.  He  and  his 
wife,  a  former  dancer,  two-stepped 
through  Europe  during  the  summer  and, 
come  fall,  Wally  will  be  back  on  TV  in 
a  new  NBC  series,  The  Adventures  Of 
Hiram  Holiday.  Wally  plays  a  "mighty 
mouse." 

General  Electric  exercised  a  sponsor's 
right  to  change  its  mind  and  switched 
from  its  tentatively-scheduled  Broken 
Arrow  series  to  Noah's  Ark,  a  highly 
touted  series  filmed  by  Mark  VII  produc- 
tions. The  show  deals  with  the  activities 
of  a  veterinarian  and  probably  will  be 
GE's  new  show  this  fall. 

Mulling  The  Mail: 

Mrs.  J.  Y.,  Duluth,  Minnesota:  Barbara 
Stanwyck  has  organized  her  television 
producing  company  and  has  plans  for  a 
Barbara  Stanwyck  Theater,  in  which  she 
will  star  on  some  shows  and  act  as  hostess 
on  all  of  them.  But  the  series  has  not  yet 
been  sold  to  a  network  or  sponsor.  .  .  . 
Selma,  Alabama  readers:  Jane  Froman 
and  her  pilot  husband,  Capt.  Burn,  were 
recently  divorced  in  Nevada.  Jane  has  been 
appearing  in  supper  clubs  this  summer, 
and  at  the  moment  has  no  definite  tele- 
vision plans.  .  .  .  Mrs.  R.  B.,  Lake  Ariel, 
Pennsylvania:  Pegeen  Fitzgerald  does  a 
local  show  on  WRCA-TV  in  New  York 
and  also  has  a  local  radio  program  over 
WRCA.  Her  husband,  Ed,  often  appears 
with  her.  .  .  .  To  those  of  you  who  wrote 
complaining  you  couldn't  see  the  Liberace 
programs  in  your  area:  Liberace's  shows 
are  sold  to  individual  stations  around  the 
country  and  are  seen  at  different  times  in 
different  cities.  A  recent  realignment  may 
have  ended  the  series  in  your  area.  .  .  . 
Mr.  H.  E.,  Buffalo,  New  York:  Sue  Carson, 
Johnny  Carson  and  Jack  Carson  are  no 
relation  to  each  other.  .  .  .  Miss  L.  D., 
Manchester,  New  Hampshire:  Marge  and 
Gower  Champion  are  expecting  their  first 
visit  from  the  stork  in  November.  .  .  .  Mrs. 
A.  T.,  Baton  Rouge,  Louisiana:  Little  Jack 
Little,  the  veteran  bandleader  and  song- 
writer, passed  away  in  April,  following  a 
short  illness.  Little  was  a  well-known 
radio  personality  in  the  late  twenties  and 
early  thirties.  .  .  .  Miss  J.  M.,  Canton,  Ohio: 
Bill  Cullen  was  formerly  married  to  singer 
Carol  Ames.  His  present  wife  is  Ann  Mc- 
Comber,  who  substituted  for  Jayne 
Meadows  on  I've  Got  A  Secret  last  year. 
(Continued  on  page  71) 


Treat  yourm  eyes  to      ^    f  /  ^    a 


new. . . 


in  5  lovely,  iridescent,  jewel- tone  shades  1 

Sapphire  Blue  -k  Amber  Brown  *  Emerald  Green  +  Blue  Pearl  Grey  *  Turquoise 

Beautiful  Gold-Tone  Swivel  Case 

Fashion  dictates  that  your  eyes  should  be  your  most  important 

feature— and  you  can  bring  out  the  color  and  clear  look  of  your  eyes 
by  giving  them  a  nattering  background  of  eye  shadow.  It's  so  easy 

with  the  new  Maybelline  Eye  Shadow  Stick.  The  shadow  can  be  the 
merest  whisper,  if  you  so  desire— but  if  you  wish  a  more  dramatic 
effect,  especially  for  evening  wear,  simply  intensify  the  color. 

Maybelline  Automatic  Eyebrow  Pencil  79c 

Never  needs  sharpening — the  only  spring-locked  crayon  that 
can't  fall  out — gives  soft  feather-touch.  Natural-tone  shades: 
Velvet  Black,  Dark  Brown,  Light  Brown,  Dove  Grey 

or  Auburn.  Exquisite  turquoise  and  gold-tone  case. 
39t  for  two  long-lasting  refills 

Maybelline  Solid  or  Cream  Mascara 

The  finest  and  smoothest  mascara  for  long,  velvety-dark 
lashes  in  seconds.  Solid  Form  in  gorgeous  gold-tone 

vanity  case  ...  or  Cream  Form  in  smart  carry-kit. 


100 


Maybelline  Professional  Eyelash  Curler 

Special  soft-cushion  method  works  gentler,  quicker, 
easier.  Gold-tone.  It's  the  finest  precision- 
curler  made.  Cushion  Refill,  only  100. 

Maybelline  Precision  Eyebrow  Tweezers    29* 

Tweeze  with  ease -these  silvery  tweezers  are  designed  with 
the  "grip  that  can't  slip."  Straight  or  slant-edge. 

Choice  of  smart  women  the  world  over 


17 


' 


Y  Stardust 

*„   GUARANTEED  FOR  1  YEAR^  ** 


H 


'EXCLUSIVE 
DESIGN 


SWdtist 


Here's  fabulous,  ■self'-adjustmg : 
free  action  by  Stardust.  The  patented* 
cross-over  elastic  construction  means 
each  direction  pulls  for  itself,  "gives" 
in  2  ways.  Both  work  together  for 
action  fit  and  comfort!  Lined  for 
chafe-protection.  Pre-shrunk  cotton. 


'  PATENT  PCND. 
DESIGN  PAT.  PEND. 


ifard 


18 


artfttf 


For  better  uplift  with 
*   less  shoulder  strain,  here's  your  favorite 
4-section  style  with  swing  straps!  . 
;    Special  elastic  inserts  assure  your  comfort; 
and  elastic  center  panel  hugs  you,  for 
ever-perfect  fit.  Pre-shrunk  cotton,  - 

lined  for  chafe-protection. 

Write  for  nearest  store: 

STARDUST,  INC.,  Dept.  M,  145  Madison  Ave.,  N.  Y.  16 


ON  THE  RECORD 

By  JOAN  WALLACE 


I.  Star  is  born:  John   Milton  Williams 
discovers  Joanie  Dunn,  meets  her  dad. 


3.  More  rehearsal:  Joanie  works  away 
as    composer    Woody    Harris    listens. 


Wherever  you  are,  the  weather  is  prob- 
ably hot,  hot,  hot.  But  you  can  cool 
off  a  little  bit  with  some  easy  listen- 
ing to  some  of  the  new  record  releases. 

If  you  can't  take  off  for  the  blue  and 
briny,  try  an  armchair  trip — a  "Mediter- 
ranean Cruise,"  with  Frankie  Carle  and 
his  orchestra.  Included  are  such  stopping- 
off  spots  as  "Valencia,"  "Isle  of  Capri"  and 
"Holiday  in  Paris."   (Victor) 

Frank  Sinatra  has  a  new  one,  and  a 
goodie  it  is.  Frankie  sings  "Wait  for  Me," 
a  ballad  adapted  from  the  main  title 
theme  music  of  his  new  movie,  "Johnny 
Concho."  The  backing  finds  Frankie  de- 
livering "You're  Sensational,"  the  catcby 
tune  he  sings  to  Grace  Kelly  in  her  last 
film,  "High  Society."  Nelson  Riddle  did 
the  fine  arrangements  and  conducts  the 
orchestra.     (Capitol) 

Speaking  of  Riddle,  he  has  also  done 
an  album  of  "Johnny  Concho,"  with  his 
own  orchestrations  of  the  music  from  the 
picture,  all  instrumental.  Nelson  and  his 
orchestral  lads  play  "Johnny  Concho  Main 
Title"  ("Wait  for  Me"),  "Johnny  Concho 
Theme,"  "The  Challenge"  and  "Johnny's 
Victory."     (Capitol) 

David  Rose,  too,  has  chosen  music  from 
the  movies  for  his  newest  release.  This 
time  it's  "The  Catered  Affair"  theme,  from 
the  Bette  Davis-Debbie  Reyn«lds-Ernest 
Borgnine  picture.  Andre  Previn  composed 
it,  and  Rose  has  given  the  arrangement  his 


2.   Rehearsal:   Manager   Bill   Buchanan 
coaches  the  fourteen-year-old  Joanie. 


4.    Recording:   The   baby-sitter  turned 
singer  puts  it  down  on  wax  for  Coral. 


full,  lush,  string  treatment.  The  coupling 
finds  the  Rose  orchestra  playing  a  new 
tango,   "Cool  Tango."    (M-G-M) 

Joanie  Dunn,  a  14-year-old  baW  sitter, 
was  overheard  at  her  singing-teacher's  by 
John  Milton  Williams,  who  was  waiting 
for  an  elevator — and  found  a  fast-rising 
star.  Joanie,  under  the  managership 
of  Buchanan  &  Goodman,  was  signed  by 
Coral  and  has  waxed  a  deejay  dedication, 
"To  Johnny  B.  From  Joanie  D.,"  and  a 
ballad  by  Peter  Daniels  and  Woody  Har- 
ris,  "Teen-Age   Torch  Song." 

Another  Harris-Daniels  song,  also  in 
the  rock  'n'  roll  vein,  is  "Where  Ever  You 
Go,"  sung  by  Jo-Ann  Campbell  on  the 
Point  label.  The  flip  side  is  "I'm  Coming 
Home  Late  Tonight."  Jo-Ann  was  a 
modern  dancer  who  was  discovered  when 
she  tried  to  sell  a  song  she'd  written.  She 
sold  her  song — and  her  own  voice. 

That  most  popular  gentleman,  Law- 
rence Welk,  and  his  Champagne  Music 
crew  have  a  new  album  called  "Cham- 
pagne Pops  Parade,"  which  should  cer- 
tainly please  the  Welk  fans,  all  millions 
of  them.  There  are  twelve  numbers,  all 
popular  hits  of  the  past  few  months,  such 
as  "I  Could  Have  Danced  All  Night," 
"Standing  on  the  Corner,"  "The  Wayward 
Wind"    and    "Graduation    Day."     (Coral) 

Another  popular  gentleman  is  Bob  Hope, 
who,  though  not  known  primarily  as  a  re- 
cording artist,  does  come  up  with  a  good 


. 


one  every  now  and  then.  Bob  has  waxed 
the  title  song  from  his  latest  movie,  "That 
Certain  Feeling,"  with  the  help  of  Joe 
Lilley's  orchestra  and  The  Skylarks  vocal 
group.  On  the  flip  side,  Robert  does  the 
oldie,  "Zing  Went  the  Strings  of  My 
Heart,"  also  from  his  movie.   (Victor) 

Joni  James  likes  to  wax  romantic  songs. 
This  time  she  has  a  whole  album  of  them, 
called  "Let  There  Be  Love,"  with  David 
Terry  and  his  orchestra.  There  are  twelve 
tunes,  including  such  perennials  as 
"You're  My  Everything,"  "Love  Is  Here 
To  Stay,"  "I'll  Be  Seeing  You"  and  "The 
Moment  I  Saw  You."     (M-G-M) 

We  go  from  romance  to  riot  with  The 
Goofers  and  their  platter  of  "Our  Miss 
Brooks  Theme"  and  "I'm  Gonna  Rock  and 
Roll  Till  I  Die,"  with  some  assistance  by 
Dick  Jacobs'  orchestra  and  chorus.  The 
Goofers  are  the  mad  ones  you  may  have 
seen  on  TV  who  also  play  instruments — 
even  while  swinging  on  trapezes.   (Coral) 

Here's  rock  'n'  roll  again,  this  time  by 
Tennessee  Ernie  Ford,  with  the  title 
"Rock  'n'  Roll  Boogie."  The  other  side 
finds  Ernie  in  his  more  familiar  style, 
singing  the  old  ballad  favorite,  "Call  Me 
Darlin'."  Jack  Fascinato's  orchestra  on 
both.     (Capitol) 

Sarah  Vaughan,  who  has  a  way  with  a 
lyric,  has  two  new  sides,  both  with  un- 
usual lyrics.  The  "Divine  One"  sings  "The 
Other  Woman,"  an  unusual  human-inter- 
est song,  and  "Fabulous  Character,"  on 
which  Sarah  sings  with  herself  via  the 
use   of   multi-tracks.     (Mercury) 

Long-time  Tommy  Dorsey  fans  will  be 
interested  in  the  album,  "That  Sentimental 
Gentleman,"  a  deluxe  set  of  twenty-seven 
numbers,  including  all  the  famous  TD 
record  hits  of  the  past.  Included  are 
such  things  as  "Song  of  India,"  "Marie," 
"Yearning,"  "Hawaiian  War  Chant,"  "I'll 
Take  Tallulah"  and  "Swanee  River." 
Among  the  soloists  are  such  musical  star 
folk  as  Jo  Stafford,  Frank  Sinatra,  Sy 
Oliver,  Dick  Haymes,  Joe  Bushkin,  Bud- 
dy Rich  and  Ziggy  Elman,  all  Dorsey  band 
men  at  one  time  or  another.   (Victor) 

The  above-mentioned  Buddy  Rich  has 
an  album  of  his  own,  in  which  Buddy's 
drumming  skill  takes  a  back  seat  to  his 
swing-easy  vocal  talent.  "Buddy  Rich 
Sings  Johnny  Mercer"  is  backed  musically 
by  Buddy  Bregman's  orchestra.   (Verve) 

From  England  comes  "The  Old  Pi-Anna 
Rag"  and  "First  Love,"  sung  by  Dickie 
Valentine,  the  popular  British  crooner. 
The  first  side  features  the  honky-tonk 
piano,  with  a  rock  vocal  by  Dickie.  On  the 
reverse,  he  gives  the  lyrics  his  usual 
Valentine  touch.  This  record,  by  the  way, 
is  rocking  the  British  Isles.  (London) 

Margaret  Whiting  has  recorded  two  bal- 
lads, "True  Love"  and  "Haunting  Love." 
Both  are  pretty,  both  are  new,  and  either 
could  be  just  the  big  one  Maggie  has  been 
waiting  for.  (Capitol) 

Before  Percy  Faith  took  off  for  Europe 
with  his  own  passport,  he  cut  a  beautiful 
new  album  titled  "Passport  to  Romance." 
The  big  Faith  orchestra  plays  such  things 
as  "Moritat,"  "Heart  of  Paris,"  "Madeira," 
"Bonjour  Tristesse"  and  "Portuguese 
Washerwoman."    (Columbia) 

Also  on  the  Columbia  label  is  a  new 
album  by  a  new  lady  on  their  roster, 
Frances  Bergen.  They're  calling  the  set 
"The  Beguiling  Miss  Frances  Bergen." 
She  does  such  standard  tunes  as  "Better 
Luck  Next  Time,"  "You're  Getting  To  Be 
a  Habit  With  Me"  and  "I  Was  Doing  All 
Right."  Frances  is  Mrs.  Edgar  Bergen. 

An  album  by  those  mad  (at  each  other) 
boys,  Dean  Martin  and  Jerry  Lewis,  is 
titled  "Pardners,"  like  their  new  movie. 
The  looney  lads  clown  and  croon  the  Sam- 
my Cahn-James  Van  Heusen  tunes  from 
the  picture,  "Me  'n'  You  'n'  the  Moon," 
"Buckskin  Beauty,"  "The  Wind,  the  Wind," 
and  the  title  song,  "Pardners."  Dick  Sta- 
bile mans  the  podium.  (Capitol) 


~A*    Stunning   attractive   candid    photos   of   all    your 

favorites!   Suitable   for  framing   in   handsome  4x5 

size,    these    superb    pictures     are    quality    printed 

on    glossy    stock.    Look    over    the    list.    Keep    up    to 

date.    Order    now    for    yourself    and    friends. 


CANDIDS 


1.  Lana  Turner 

2.  Betty  Grable 

3.  Ava  Gardner 

4.  Clark  Gable 

5.  Alan  Ladd  • 

6.  Tyrone  Power 

7.  Gregory  Peck 

8.  Rita  Hayworth 

9.  Esther  Williams 
11.  Elizabeth  Taylor 

14.  Cornel  Wilde 

15.  Frank  Sinatra 

18.  Rory  Calhoun 

19.  Peter  Lawford 

21.  Bob  Mitchum 

22.  Burt  Lancaster 

23.  Bing  Crosby 
25.  Dale  Evans 
27.  June  Allyson 
31.  Glenn  Ford 

33.  Gene  Autry 

34.  Roy  Rogers 

35.  Sunset  Carson 

50.  Diana  Lynn 

51.  Doris  Day 

52.  Montgomery  Clift 

53.  Richard  Widmark 

54.  Mona  Freeman 

56.  Perry  Como 

57.  Bill  Holden 

65.  Jane  Powell 

66.  Gordon   MacRae 

67.  Ann  Blyth 

68.  Jeanne  Crain 

69.  Jane  Russell 

74.  John  Wayne 

75.  Yvonne  de  Carlo 


78.  Audie  Murphy 
84.  Janet  Leigh 
86.  Farley  Granger 
88.  Tony  Martin 

91.  John  Derek 

92.  Guy  Madison 
94.  Mario  Lanza 
97.  Kirk  Douglas 

103.  Scott  Brady 

105.  Vic  Damone 

106.  Shelley  Winters 

107.  Richard  Todd 

109.  Dean  Martin 

110.  Jerry  Lewis 

111.  Howard  Keel 

112.  Susan  Hay  ward 

113.  Barbara  Stanwyck 
117.  Terry  Moore 
121.  Tony  Curtis 
124.  Gail  Davis 

127.  Piper  Laurie 

128.  Debbie   Reynolds 

135.  Jeff  Chandler 

136.  Rock  Hudson 

137.  Stewart   Granger 

139.  Debra  Paget 

140.  Dale  Robertson 

141.  Marilyn   Monroe 

142.  Leslie  Caron 

143.  Pier  Angeli 

144.  Mitzi  Gay  nor 

145.  Marlon  Brando 

146.  Aldo  Ray 

147.  Tab  Hunter 

148.  Robert  Wagner 

149.  Russ  Tamblyn 

150.  Jeff  Hunter 


152.  Marge  and  Gow- 

er  Champion 

153.  Fernando  Lamas 
161.  Lori  Nelson 

174.  Rita  Gam 

175.  Charlton   Heston 

176.  Steve  Cochran 

177.  Richard  Burton 

179.  Julius  La  Rosa 

180.  Lucille  Ball 

181.  Eve  Arden 

182.  Jack  Webb 
185.  Richard  Egan 
187.  Jeff  Richards 

190.  Pat  Crowley 

191.  Robert  Taylor 

192.  Jean  Simmons 
194.  Audrey  Hepburn 

198.  Gale  Storm 

199.  Dinah  Shore 

200.  Barry  Nelson 


ELVIS    PRESLEY 


202.  George  Nader 

205.  Ann  Sothern 

206.  David  Brian 

207.  Eddie  Fisher 
209.  Liberace 

211.  Bob  Francis 

212.  Grace  Kelly 

213.  James  Dean 

214.  Sheree  North 

215.  Kim  Novak 

216.  Richard  Davalos 

217.  Julie  Adams 

218.  Eva  Marie  Saint 

219.  Natalie  Wood 

220.  Dewey  Martin 

221.  Joan  Collins 

222.  Jayne  Mansfield 

223.  Sal  Mineo 

224.  Shirley   Jones 

225.  Elvis  Presley 


FILL    IN    AND    MAIL 
COUPON  TODAY! 


WORLD  WIDE,  DEPT.    RM-9-56 
I  12  Main  St.,  Ossining,  N.  Y. 

I  enclose  $ for   candid 

pictures  of  my  favorite  stars  and  have  circled 
the  numbers  of  the  ones  you  are  to  send  me 
by  return  mail. 


NAME 

STREET 

CITY 

T 

V 

ZONE STATE R 

Fill  out  and  mail  coupon  today.  Send   cash 
or  money  order.  12  pictures  for  $1;  6  for  50c. 


HOLLYWOOD  DISCOVERY! 
A  non-drying  spray-set  with 

Tip  (itocfyi£/b  at  aft  I 

/l4o  gf04 


20 


"I  use  Lustre-Net — everyday  I 
says  VIVIAN  BLAINE,  co-starring  in 

"PUBLIC  PIGEON 
NUMBER  ONE" 

An  RKO-Radio  Picture. 
Color  by  Technicolor. 


f 


Lu^At-^iet 


New  SUPER-SOFT 

the  spray-set  with  lanolin  esters! 


Keeps  hair  in  place  the  Hollywood  way — 
without  stiffness  or  stickiness,  contains 
no  lacquer.  Leaves  hair  soft,  shining! 
Actually  helps  prevent  dryness — helps 
preserve  softness  with  lanolin  esters! 
Quick-sets  pin-curls  in  damp  or 
dry  hair  .  .  .  ends  sleeping 


on  pins 


Any  pin-curl  style 
sets  faster,  manages 
easier,  lasts  longer! 


recommended-  by  Top  Hollywood  Movie  Stars 


THERE  ARE 


LUSTRE-NETS 


SUPER-SOFT — gentle  control  for 

loose,  casual  hair-do's.  Spray 

on  after  combing. 

REGULAR — extra  control  for  hard-to- 

manage  hair,  or  curly  hair-do's. 

5)4  oz. — a  full  ounce  more  .  .  .  Only 
$1.25  plus  tax.  By  the  makers  of 
Lustre-Creme  Shampoo 


INFORMATION 


Marlin  Perkins  and  Friend 

Zoo  Parade 

/  would  be  grateful  for  some  information, 
about  Marlin  Perkins  of  the  Zoo  Parade, 
NBC-TV.  A.W.,  Bronx,  N.  Y. 

The  director  of  Chicago's  Lincoln  Park 
Zoo  shares  top  billing  on  the  weekly  Zoo 
Parade  with  his  furred  and  feathered 
friends.  Marlin's  congenial  personality  re- 
flects a  man  who  loves  his  work — and,  in 
truth,  he  has  achieved  his  lifelong  ambi- 
tion. Even  as  a  child,  he  shunned  the  usual 
games  in  favor  of  roaming  the  fields  of  his 
native  Missouri,  always  adding  to  his  col- 
lection of  reptiles,  animals  and  birds.  .  .  . 
At  Wentworth  Military  Academy  and  the 
University  of  Missouri.  Marlin  studied 
animal  husbandry.  He  left  college  to  work 
as  a  day  laborer  at  the  St.  Louis  Park  zoo 
and,  after  just  a  few  weeks,  was  put  in 
charge  of  the  reptiles.  It  was  through 
Marlin's  tireless  efforts  that  the  collection 
grew  to  be  one  of  the  country's  finest.  .  .  . 
In  1938,  Perkins  left  St.  Louis  to  become 
director  of  the  Buffalo,  New  York,  zoo. 
Here  he  did  another  outstanding  job  of 
reorganization  and  modernization.  In  1944, 
he  became  the  director  of  Chicago's  Lin- 
coln Park  Zoo.  .  .  .  On  Zoo  Parade, 
Marlin  handles  and  treats  his  charges  with 
a  confidence  and  familiarity  born  of  years 
of  study  and  unflagging  curiosity  about  the 
animal  world.  He  never  uses  a  script  and 
his  fountain  of  zoological  knowledge  seems 
inexhaustible.  ...  To  the  man  who  pre- 
sides on  Zoo  Parade,  the  prospect  of  trav- 
eling with  reptiles  is  nothing  to  get  into  a 
stew  about.  Last  year,  in  the  company  of 
rattlesnakes,  raccoons,  porcupines,  possum, 
bear  cubs,  birds  and  nine  humans,  Marlin 
left  for  Europe  and  Africa.  His  mission 
was  to  shoot  seven  films  for  eventual  filmed 
projection  on  his  show.  Also  his  purpose 
was  to  barter  with  zoos  in  European  cities, 
thus  creating  an  atmosphere  of  good  neigh- 
borly exchange  of  animalia.  .  .  .  Born 
in  Pittsburgh,  Kansas.  Marlin  Perkins 
lives  in  Chicago's  north  side — within  walk- 
ing distance  of  the  zoo — of  course. 


BOOTH 


Eye  And  Ear  Treat 

/  would  like  some  information  about  Doe 
Avedon,  who  plays  Diane  Walker  on  Big 
Town,  NBC-TV.  A.  7 ',  Malone,  N.  Y. 

The  extra  treat  to  the  eye  and  ear  on  Big 
Town  is  Doe  Avedon,  a  wide-eyed  beauty 
who  plays  Diane  Walker.  When  not  pur- 
suing Steve  Wilson  (Mark  Stevens)  on 
TV,  Doe  pursues  a  highly  successful  career 
as  a  commercial  artist  and  illustrator.  .  .  . 
Born  in  Old  Westbury,  Long  Island,  New 
York,  Miss  Avedon  admits  that  "Doe"  is  a 
nickname,  but  won't  divulge  her  real  one. 
Her  early  years  were  spent  in  England, 
where  her  father,  a  native  of  London,  was 
steward  and  agent  for  a  large  estate.  Doe 
attended  school  at  the  very  English  Melton 
Mowbray.  Her  mother,  who  came  from 
Aberdeen,  Scotland,  died  three  years  after 
Doe's  birth.  Nine  years  later,  when  her 
father  passed  away,  Doe  returned  to  Amer- 
ica to  be  reared  by  relatives.  ...  A  gradu- 
ate of  Queens  High  School,  Doe's  first  job 
was  as  a,  bookkeeper.  The  theater  entered 
her  life  when  a  friend  of  David  0.  Selznick 
spotted  her.  With  the  producer's  help,  she 
went  through  two  years  of  intensive  dra- 
matic schooling.  Broadway  bookings  fol- 
lowed in  "The  Young  and  the  Fair"  and 
"My  Name  Was  Aquilon."  .  .  .  Though  a 
movie  offer  came  from  England,  Doe  pre- 
ferred to  marry  Dan  Matthews,  a  young 
actor.  Two  years  later,  Dan  was  killed  in 
an  auto  accident.  Doe  then  turned  to  movies. 
She  played  in  "The  High  and  the  Mighty" 
and  "Deep  in  My  Heart."  .  .  .  When  Mark 
Stevens  saw  some  film  footage  of  her  work, 
he  signed  her  for  the  role  in  Big  Town. 
.  .  .  Doe  enjoys  traveling,  skiing,  swim- 
ming and  riding.  She  doesn't  count  tennis 
because,  she  says,  "All  I  ever  get  to  do  is 
jump  over  the  net  to  congratulate  the  other 
guy  on  beating  me."  Doe  likes  to  cook  and 
is  a  fine  seamstress.  She's  five-foot-seven, 
weighs  116  pounds,  has  light  chestnut  hair 
and  very  blue  eyes.  Her  ambition  is  to  do 
a  good  job  in  whatever  she  attempts. 
(Continued  on  page  22) 


Doe  Avedon 


"Yes,  I  use  Luslre-Creme 
Shampoo,"  says  Debra  Paget. 
It's  the  favorite  of  4  out  of  5 
top  Hollywood  movie  stars! 

It  never  dries  your  hair!  Lustre- 
Creme  Shampoo  is  blessed  with 
lanolin  .  .  .  foams  into  rich  lather, 
even  in  hardest  water  .  .  .  leaves 
hair  so  easy  to  manage. 

It  beautifies!  For  soft,  bright,  fra- 
grantly clean  hair — without  special 
after-rinses — choose  the  shampoo  of 
America's  most  glamorous  women. 
Use  the  favorite  of  Hollywood  movie 
stars — Lustre-Creme  Shampoo. 


^^a«^&49£^  Lustie-  Creme  Shampoo 

Never  Dries- 
it  Beautifies ! 


P 


(TV     /  /O  co-starring  in  CECIL  B.  DeMILLE'S  production  of 

^^tfytfr  "THE  TEN  COMMANDMENTS" 

W  A  Paramount  Picture  in  VistaVision.  Color  by  Teshnicolor. 


21 


this  woman 

of  fashion 
was  a 

natural  blonde 
but... 

She  dyed  her  hair  blue. 

Because  at  that  special  moment 

blazing  bright  hair  was  fashion.  So  the  women 

of  Athens,  though  naturally  blonde,  colored  their  hair  almost 

any  brilliant  shade  because — even  then — they  realized  that  nothing 

is  more  magnetic  than  fashion.     This  Greek  beauty  knew  what  Mark 

Twain  pointed  out,  centuries  later,  that  a  beautiful  woman  is 

always  more  beautiful  in  fashion  than  out  of  it. 

And  now,  it  is  Noreen,  who  knows 

all  the  subtleties  of  today's 

great  fashion  for  bright 

hair.  Makes  colors  that 

are  as  natural  as  the 

most  beautiful  hair  that 

ever  lured... 14  of  them, 

several  definitely  for  you. 


> 


■  ■    .■ 


You  take  this  step  in  the  right 
direction  without  a  moment's  hesitation 
because  Noreen  Color  Hair  Rinse  washes  out  just  as 
quickly  as  it  goes  on,  costs  next  to  nothing. 
With  Noreen,  you  make  the  marvelous  change-over 
from  unfashionable  dullness  to  fashionable 
hair  color— in  seconds.  Do— do  it  today. 


22 


-/t#Vee/i. 


COLOR 

HAIR 

RINSE 


At  cosmetic  counters 
everywhere,  also 
professionally 
applied  in 
Beauty  Salons. 
Send  for  free  litera- 
ture "What  Noreen 
can  do  for  me." 
Write  to  Noreen, 
450  Lincoln  Street, 
Denver  3,  Colorado, 
Dept.  T1 


INFORMATION 


. 


(Continued  from  page  21) 


Robert  Bailey 


Show  Stopper 

Would  you  please  give  me  some  informa- 
tion about  Robert  Bailey,  the  star  of  Yours 
Truly,  Johnny  Dollar,  CBS  Radio? 

L.  L.,  Bethel,  O. 

Bob  Bailey,  radio's  hard-boiled  Johnny 
Dollar,  was  born  in  the  proverbial  trunk, 
when  his  mom  starred  in  "Bertha,  The 
Poor  Sewing  Machine  Girl."  Bob's  parents 
were  Edwin  B.  Bailey  and  Grace  Lockwood 
Bailey,  the  famed  thespians  of  the  early 
1900's.  "Those  stories  about  theatrical  kids 
being  born  between  the  first  and  second 
acts  are  highly  exaggerated,"  he  says. 
"Mother  missed  an  entire  evening's  per- 
formance to  have  me."  . . .  Bob  has  been  act- 
ing since  he  was  six.  In  Chautauqua's  tent- 
show  circuit,  he  played  the  original  Andy 
Hardy  role.  Discovering  that  he  could  eat 
more  steadily  as  a  doorman,  Bob  worked 
his  way  up  to  assistant  manager  with  the 
Publix  Theater  Service.  But  when  he  heard 
the  magic  call  of  radio,  he  ran  to  the  near- 
est Chicago  station.  When  20th  Century- 
Fox  scouts  heard  him  on  Knickerbocker 
Playhouse,  they  called  him  for  a  test.  He 
then  appeared  in  "The  Eve  of  St.  Mark," 
"Sunday  Dinner  for  a  Soldier,"  "Wing  and 
a  Prayer."  ...  In  1946,  radio  audiences 
heard  Bob  in  Let  George  Do  It,  and  when 
he  turned  his  talents  to  writing,  RKO  re- 
leased several  films  authored  by  him. 
TV  saw  his  series,  The  Legal  Beagle.  .  .  . 
The  former  model,  Gloriana  Rayston,  is 
Bob's  lovely  wife.  They  have  three  children 
— Roberta  Ann,  14,  Robert,  Jr.,  6,  and 
Patric,  3.  The  Baileys,  who  met  on  a  ten- 
nis court,  say  "It  was  love-all  at  first  sight." 

Calling  All  Fans 

The  following  clubs  invite  new  mem- 
bers. If  you  are  interested  in  joining,  write 
to  address  given,  not  to  TV  Radio  Mirror. 

Dick  Jones  Fan  Club,  c/o  Joanne  Col- 
lins, 3890  Bradley  Rd.,  Westlake,  Ohio. 

Dorothy  Collins  Fan  Club,  c/o  Kay  Hef- 
fron,  14  Furman  St.,  Schenectady,  N.  Y. 

Don  Liberto  Fan  Club,  c/o  Edna  Ban- 
ister, 2019  E.  47  Terrace,  Kansas  City,  Mo. 


BOOTH 


Jeanne  Moody 


Frontier  Femme 

Would  you  tell  me  about  Jeanne  Moody, 

whom  I've  seen  several  times  on  Frontier? 

T.  R.,  Brookline,  Mass. 

A  five-foot-seven  champagne  blonde, 
Jeanne  Moody  is  married  to  Scott  Forbes, 
who  also  appears  on  Frontier.  Jeanne 
likes  the  challenge  of  Frontier  roles,  but 
she  is  also  frustrated.  She  says,  "Scott 
plays  gamblers  or  gunmen  and  wears  a 
frock  coat,  black  string  tie  and  a  diamond 
stickpin.  I  play  the  rancher's  daughter 
and  the  only  makeup  I'm  allowed  is  a  few 
smears  of  dirt!"  Jeanne  is  a  theatrical 
"egg-head"  who  takes  her  acting  seriously, 
reads  books  by  the  shelf-ful,  is  an  avid 
playgoer  and  yearns  to  play  Shakespeare. 
Born  in  Cherokee,  Alabama — pop.  2000 — 
Jeanne  decided  to  go  on  the  stage — as  an 
opera  singer.  She  broke  into  show  business 
playing  "Aphrodite  in  a  bathtub"  at  New 
York's  swank  club,  Versailles.  Later  she 
switched  to  acting,  lost  her  corn-pone  ac- 
cent by  listening  to  John  Gielgud  record- 
ings— and  then  went  to  school  to  get  rid  of 
the  British  accent.  She  has  appeared  on 
Loretta  Young's  show,  Cavalcade  and 
Studio  One.  .  .  .  Jeanne  prefers  New  York 
but  their  joint  careers  keep  the  Forbes'  at 
home  in  a  Hollywood  apartment.  Scott  will 
be  seen  this  fall  in  a  new  TV  series  based 
on  the  life  of  Jim  Bowie.  .  .  .  Jeanne 
drives  a  British  Triumph  car  and  has  a 
parakeet  who  says  "God  save  the  Queen." 
She's  allergic  to  horses,  and  "for  some 
reason,  horses  can't  stand  me,"  she  says. 
Wolves — the  street-corner  variety — have  a 
different  reaction  to  Jeanne's  proportions. 

FOR  YOUR  INFORMATION— If  there's 
something  you  want  to  know  about  radio 
and  television,  write  to  Information  Booth, 
TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East  42nd  St.,  New 
York  17,  N.  Y.  We'll  answer,  if  we  can, 
provided  your  question  is  of  general  inter- 
est. Ansivers  ivill  appear  in  this  column — 
but  be  sure  to  attach  this  box  to  your 
letter,  and  specify  whether  your  question 
concerns  radio  or  TV. 


'- 


"i 


Lady  Esther 
Sheer  Flattery 
Creme  Make-Up 


tkbikmtttibt  \ 

A  piece  of  paper  can  show  you  quicker  than  anything  else  how  good 

your  make-up  is.  Smears,  streaks,  lines,  pores  show  up  on  paper  at  a 
glance — the  way  they  show  up  on  your  skin  at  close  range.  And  you 
can  see  for  yourself  how  much,  much  smoother  Lady  Esther's 
new  Sheer  Flattery  is  than  other  make-ups  tested. 

Sheer  Flattery  is  a  new  sheerer  than  sheer,  creamier  creme  make-up  that 

smooths  on  so  easily  .  .  .  smooths  over  every  blemish  so  evenly,  you  can 
be  absolutely  confident  that  the  closer  he  looks  the  lovelier  you'll  look. 
No  other  make-up — cream,  liquid,  or  cake — can  give  you  such 

wonderful  close-up  confidence  in  your  complexion  as  Lady  Esther's 
new  Sheer  Flattery!  Just  look  at  the  paper  test!  It  shows  the  difference! 

6«wWHARMWIYsli*fes 


i 


blend  perfectly  with  natural  skin  tones 

Stunning  pink  and  French  Gray  case 

~YQ£  plus  tax 
price  slightly  higher  in  Canada 


SHEER    FLATTERY 
Creme  Make-Up 


©1956  by  Lady  Esther,  Div. 


23 


Jew 


/ 


oaQiit: 


...and  you  can  prove  it  with  a  Palmolive  bar! 


, . 


.:...  :,"')::. 


t 


:    ':' 


SfflBHBr 


F^Ttwe.  ~At  -6b  Cfi>oA4eJiy^<**  6o*Sec<n4&>  f 


J„    Hidden  dirt  is  a  beauty  thief! 

Rub  your  face  hard  with  a  cotton 
pad  after  ordinary,  casual  cleansing  with 
your  regular  soap  or  face  cream.  See  the 
ugly  smudge  the  pad  picks  up?  That's 
deep-down  dirt  that  casual  cleansing 
misses  .  .  .  dirt  that  hides  the  fresh, 
natural  prettiness  of  your  complexion. 


*#f 


^y      Beautifully  clean  after  60- 
second  Palmolive  facial!  Rub 

your  face  the  same  way  with  a  cotton  pad 
after  a  60-second  massage  with  Palmolive 
Soap  Pad  is  still  snowy-white  .  .  .  prov- 
ing that  Palmolive  care  cleans  deeper, 
cleans  cleaner,  cleans  prettier!  And  mild 
Palmolive  won't  irritate  skin. 


A     ** 


OriMoMlQe^t 

and  wonderful  for  bath,  too. 


N. 


ew  complexion  beauty  in  just  one  minute?  Yes,  fair  lady,  yes!  Because  Palmolive  care  removes 
beauty-robbing  hidden  dirt  that  casual  cleansing  misses.  And  only  a  soap  as  mild  as  Palmolive  can  cleanse  so 
deeply  without  irritation.  Start  Palmolive  Gare  today,  and  see  your  true  complexion  beauty  come  through! 


fme/m 


Hand  in  hand,  heart  by 
heart,  Peter  Lind  Hayes 
and  Mary  Healy  found 
their  "secret  formula" 

By   ED  MEYERSON 

Hundreds  of  years  ago,  a  man  no 
one  remembers  any  more  said 
something  that  no  one  will  ever1  for- 
get. "Familiaritie  bringeth  contempt," 
Nicholas  Udall  wrote,  and  his  three 
little  words  are  still  echoed  in  divorce 
courts  throughout  the  land. 

But  familiaritie  can  also  bringeth 
contentment.  Peter  Lind  Hayes  and 
Mary  Healy  are  a  case  in  point.  For 
fifteen  years,  they  have  not  only  lived 
together  but  worked  together,  as  well. 
"And  that,"  says  Peter,  "is  the  secret 
formula  for  a  happy  and  lasting  mar- 
riage. Together  is  the  talismanic 
word."  He  is  referring,  of  course,  to 
people  in  show  business,  whose  ca- 
reers keep  separating  them  unless 
they  join  together  as  a  team.  But 
even  "normal"  couples,  Peter  feels, 
must  "share  as  many  interests  as  pos- 
sible" if  they  want  their  marriage  to 
be  a  real  success. 

This  is  good  advice  which  any  man 
would  gladly  take — particularly  if  he 
were  fortunate  enough  to  be  married 
to  a  Mary  Healy.  And  it's  advice 
which  Peter  and  Mary  themseh/es 
take  quite  seriously,  both  in  and  out 
of  show  business.  They  have  been  a 
husband-and-wife  team  since  the 
early  days  of  their  marriage.  Re- 
cently, they  appeared  together  on 
CBS-TV's  Arthur  Godfrey  And  His 
Friends,  and  now  they  can  both  be 
seen  and  heard  on  the  radio  and  tele- 
vision versions  of  CBS's  Arthur  God- 
frey Time.  But  Peter  has  done  solo 
stints  on  Arthur  Godfrey's  Talent 
Scouts.   Mary   has  appeared  without 


See  Next  Page  y 


(Continued) 


Mutual  admiration?  Peter  Lind  Hayes  and  Mary  Healy  criticize  them- 
selves— not  each  other — re-running  old  films  in  their  own  living   room. 


Quarrels?  Who  could  argue  with  a  man  who  can  be  as  comical  as  Peter! 
Mary  finds  that  having  a  sense  of  humor  is  great  "marriage  insurance." 


Peter  Lind  Hayes  and  Mary  Healy  are  seen  and  heard  this  summer 
on  Arthur  Godfrey  Time — CBS  Radio,  Mon.  thru  Fri.,  from  10  to 
11:30  A.M.  EDT— CBS-TV,  Mon.  thru  Thurs.,  10:30  to  11:30  A.M. 


him  as  a  panelist  on  ABC-TV's  Masquerade 
Party.  Could  it  be  that  even  the  Hayeses 
have  had  enough  of  being  together  all 
the  time? 

The  answers  to  these  questions  can  be 
found  by  taking  just  a  short  trip  out  of 
New  York  City  and  visiting  an  English 
Tudor  house,  midway  between  Pelham 
and  New  Rochelle.  There,  Peter  Lind 
Hayes  and  Mary  Healy  are  "at  home." 
At  home,  not  only  in  the  rambling,  com- 
fortable house — but  at  home  with  each 
other.  One  has  only  to  look  at  them  to 
be  reassured.  Peter  might  change  his 
"secret  formula"  about  working  together, 
but  theirs  is  still  "a  happy  and  lasting 
marriage,"  as  Peter  describes  it. 

And  yet,  as  they  reminisce  about  their 
lives  together,  it  becomes  increasingly 
clear.  Differences  are  starting  to  show. 
Not  the  personality  differences  between 
two  performers,  each  a  star  in  his  own 
right,  but  the  more  significant  ones  that 
come  about  in  every  marriage — the  age- 
old  differences  between  the  eternal  male 
and  the  eternal  female.  .  .  . 

It  all  started  in  Hollywood.  There,  boy 
met  girl — met  her  as  casually  and  as  ac- 
cidentally as  most  young  people  who  are 
destined  to  fall  in  love,  get  married,  raise 
children,  and  spend  the  rest  of  their  lives 
together. 

"I  was  dating  a  young  man  named 
Frank  Donahoe  at  the  time,"  Mary  re- 
calls. "He's  a  friend  of  mine,"  Peter  an- 
nounces from  the  other  side  of  the  living 
room.   "We  went  (Continued  on  page  78) 


■ 
I 

I 


Work  together?   Yes,   indeed.  They've   been 
a  most  successful  team  from  LA.  to  London. 


26 


I* 


vfaj"*a3»-' 


*  ■ . 


V-*      ' 


>■■  < 


V 


,*•*•■••<« 


>« 


r»* 


1 


ii 
ci 


aan 


Play  together,  too?  They  go  golfing  every  day  they  can,  on  the  course  right  next  door  to  their  home. 


It    isn't    "do-it-yourself,"    it's    "do    it    ourselves."    Every 
project  is  a  joint  one,  around  the  busy  Hayes  household. 


She  still  uses  her  shorthand — for  Mary  doesn't  hesitate  to 
take  dictation  from  the  real  "business  head"  of  the  family. 


ITftfEWM 


K2T 


■    >■>. 


^ 


■■ 


* 


4*-  * 


m  l^wfm  - 

1    *...*  J&B    &■ 

RO^K 


I       f 


Paul  Whiteman,  King  of  Jazz — Alan  Freed,  King  of  R  &  R 
— they're  not  as  far  apart  in  the  debate  as  you  might  think! 

By   HELEN   BOLSTAD 

Is  rock  V  roll  a  wallop  and  a  screech?  A  pulsating, 
demanding  blitz  which  splits  the  eardrums  of  the  elders 
— while  it  becomes,   for  the   young   and   vulnerable,   a 
flame-thrower  of  mass  hysteria?  A  Satanic,  cannibalistic, 
evil  "spiritual"  which  drives  them  to  destruction,  vio- 
lence, dope  addiction,  illicit  sex?  ...  Or  is  it  a  happy  treat 
for  the  feet?  A  jive  for  the  live?  An  exciting  new  rhythm 


ROLL 

An  evil  influence?  A  blessing 
to  the  young  in  heart? 
One  thing  sure:  It's 
something  to  listen  to— or 
argue  about— all  summer  long! 


28 


Bill  Haley  and  His  Comets  made  hot  show-biz  news — 
in  a  real  cool  way — with  an  Atlantic  City  engagement. 

Continued 


► 


y^r 


***\, 


>»*■ 


Teenagers  kept  in  line  for  Alan  Freed's  big  rock  'n'   roll  show  at  the  Brooklyn   Paramount  and    once 
inside,  weren't  as  "wild"  as  other  audiences  the  theater  manager  had  seen.  (But  many  an  outraged  New 

/'d  heard— for  riotous  disorders  in  the  subway  later  in  the  day.) 


Yorker  blamed  them — and  the  music  they' 


■M 


•■Mr     T    IB.  * 


■MM    M    MMMr" 
.    -.  . 


.. 

1       _ 

[c'-.-r-K  tmc-  H  1 1%  i 

■♦aw,- 

■  .n**»%4++H 

jnnnnn 

' '  ■.'■--•■ 

m  Ml  m  Am? 

?*taHMlfl 

!M 


I 


- 1 


■ 


ROCK 


i    i 


Paul  Whiteman,  King  of  Jazz — Alan  Freed,  King  of  R  &  R 
— they're  not  as  far  apart  in  the  debate  as  you  might  think! 

By  HELEN   BOLSTAD 

IS  rock  V  roll  a  wallop  and  a  screech?  A  pulsating, 
demanding  blitz  which  splits  the  eardrums  of  the  eiders 
— while  it  becomes,  for  the  young  and   vulnerable    a 
flame-thrower  of  mass  hysteria?  A  Satanic,  cannibalistic, 
evil  "spiritual"  which  drives  them  to  destruction,  vio- 
lence, dope  addiction,  illicit  sex?  ...  Or  is  it  a  happy  treat 
for  the  feet?  A  jive  for  the  live?  An  exciting  new  rhythm 


ROIL 

An  evil  influence?  A  blessing 
to  the  young  in  heart? 
One  thing  sure:  It's 
something  to  listen  to— or 
argue  about— all  summer  long! 


^^^»                         ^^^^^H 

1  L*f 

\ 

'At 

1 1 

H 


v 


-*~m 


Teenagers  kept  in  line  for  Alan  Freed's  big  rock  'n'  roll  show  at  the  Brooklyn  Paramount  and,  once 
inside,  weren't  as  "wild"  as  other  audiences  the  theater  manager  had  seen.  (But  many  an  outraged  New 
Yorker  blamed  them — and  the  music  they'd  heard — for  riotous  disorders  in  the  subway  later  in  the  day.) 


28 


Bill  Haley  and  His  Comets  made  hot  show-biz  news- 

emei 

tinned^,) 


in  a  real  cool  way— with  an  Atlantic  City  engagement- 


w 


*»* 


Young  in  heart  is  the  phrase  for  Whiteman,  who's  kept  America  dancing  for  half  a  century.  "Pops' 
loves  to  share  the  fun  with  his  youthful  fans — and  disagrees  heartily  with  those  critics  who  cal 
rock  'n'   roll   "musical  junk"  that  appeals  to   "morons  of  all  ages,  but  particularly  to  young  morons.' 

RfltKy  ROLL 


(Continued) 


which  brings  teenagers  more  good,  healthy  dancing  fun 
than  they  have  had  since  wars — and  The  Bomb — made 
youth  a  time  of  high  tension,  rather  than  of  carefree 
enjoyment? 

As  the  big  beat  entered  its  third  popular  year,  the 
argument  raged.  Everyone  seemed  to  have  an  opinion — 
usually  strong.  To  millions  of  well-behaved  kids  who 
just  plain  liked  rock  'n'  roll,  the  charges  could  not  help 


but  be  confusing.  To  the  more  understanding  of  their 
elders,  however,  the  uproar  brought  the  feeling:  "This 
is  where  I  came  in."  .  .  .  For,  whatever  else  it  had  done, 
rock  'n'  roll  clearly  had  won  its  place  among  this  cen- 
tury's Pied  Pipers  of  music — the  waltz,  ragtime,  jazz, 
swing,  and  their  classic  extension,  progressive  jazz.  Peo- 
ple hear  it  and  things  happen. 
Certain  of  rock  'n'  roll's  more  (Continued  on  page  85) 


Alan  Freed  is  host  of  Rock  'N'  Roll  Dance  Party,  CBS  Radio,  Tues.,  8:30  P.M.,  for  Camel  Cigarettes.  Paul  Whiteman  is  host  of  Best  Bands 
In  The  Land,  ABC  Radio,  M-thru-Sat.,  9:30  P.M.  The  Arthur  Murray  Party  is  seen  on  CBS-TV,  Thurs.,  10  P.M.,  for  Prom,  White  Rain, 
Hazel  Bishop  "Once-A-Day"  Cosmetics.  Willie  Bryant  emcees  Rhythm  On  Parade,  ABC  Radio,  Sat.,  10:35  P.M.  National  Radio  Fan  Club 
is  emceed  by  Johnny  Andrews  on  NBC  Radio,  Fri.,  8  P.M.  Ted  Steele's  Bandstand  is  seen  on  WOR-TV  (N.Y.)   M-F,  5  P.M.   (AH  EDT) 


They  were  all  young  once — and  not  quite  "respectable":  The  polka  .  .  .  the  waltz  .  .  .  the  Turkey  Trot. 


2      30 


Bandstand,  the  WOR-TV  show,  gives  Ted  Steele  a  chance 
to  gather  high-schoolers  together  for  a  real  studio  party. 
R  &  R  a  problem?  No — he's  glad  to  see  kids  dancing  again! 


What  do  such  dance  experts  as  Arthur  and  Kathryn  Murray 
think  of  rock  'n'  roll?  Well,  they  devoted  a  whole  program 
of  The  Arthur  Murray  Party,  on  CBS-TV,  to  a  demonstration. 


Former  "mayor  of  Harlem"  Willie  Bryant  (left  mike)  now 
hosts  ABC's  Rhythm  On  Parade  from  Detroit,  makes 
movies — and  makes  a  strong  defense  of  his  kind  of  music. 


R  &  R  ripples  (or  rips)  through  all  entertainment  media — 
records,  radio,  TV,  films.  Above,  The  Platters  in  a  typical 
number  from  the  Columbia  Picture,  "Rock  Around  the  Clock." 


The  rhythmic  story  rolls  on:  The  foxtrot  .  .  .  the  Charleston   .  .   .  and  now  the  joint's  really  rockin'! 


31 


MAN 
WANTED ! 

Name:  Elvis  Presley. 
Former  occupation:  Electrician. 
Charge:  Striking  today's 
biggest  sparks  in  teen-age  hearts 

By  LILLA  ANDERSON 


Every  kid,  at  eighteen,  cherishes  a  secret 
ambition  to  do  something  terrific — 
something  which  instantaneously  will 
assure  his  place  in  the  elusive  adult 
world.  Should  he  voice  that  dream,  how- 
ever, he  swiftly  hears  the  sound  advice: 
"Don't  fool  yourself.  There's  no  such 
thing  as  overnight  success.  Things  don't 
happen  that  way."  .  .  .  And  yet — just  often 
enough  to  keep  the  dream  alive — they  do. 
Three  years  ago,  Elvis  Aron  Presley, 
newly  graduated  from  high  school,  jing- 
ling in  his  jeans  money  which  he  had 
earned  on  the  assembly  line  in  an  air- 
plane factory,  walked  into  the  Sun  Record 
Company    in     (Continued    on    page    91) 

Off  stage,  2 1 -year-old  Elvis  is  quiet,  cool.  On  stage,  he's  an  incredible  dynamo  of 
hot  music,  hotter  movements.  The  Oakland  Tribune  photographed  the  kneeling  fans  below 
during  a  California  performance,  reported  that  Presley  sang  "as  if  he  had  grabbed  a 
live  wire" — and  his  audience  reacted  "as  if  they  had  been  jolted  by  the  same  current." 


! 
\ 

;    • 

\ 

V 

kr 

7^    ■ 

F*i 

jfllfc 

■ 

■ 

1%   jr 

JP                                                    ^**      * 

I 

>■■-'■"■  ■•■":- ■'-'.    -'•■■■■* 

jff    * 

^ 

1 

l 

rj$ittfm~    "    .JIj 

*w 


Tom  Diskin,  toUr  manager,  awakens  Fan  mail  pours  in,  to  Presley's  awed  Off  again:  The  magic  merry-go-rounc 
Elvis  to  one  of  those  busy  days  which  delight.  Best  of  all,  no  letter  yet  has  has  spun  Elvis  to  an  RCA  Victor  record 
have  led  him  to  jet-propelled  stardom,     tried  to  tear  the  tassels  off  his  shoes!      contract  in  N.Y.,  movies  in  Hollywood. 


Success  has  brought  two  diamond  rings,  four  Caddies — and  Appearing  on  Stage  Show  with  Tommy  and  Jimmy  Dorsey  was 

a  new  home  for  his  parents  in  thanks  "for  all  they've  done  a  great  thrill — and  a  challenge.  He  was  afraid  he  wouldn't  have 

for  me."  At  heart,  he's  still  the  same  casual  kind  of  guy  time  enough  to  "warm  up"  on  TV.  But  the  fans  were  more  than 

who  enjoys  simple  meals  and  small  talk  with  close  friends,  satisfied,  mobbed  him  as  usual  in  the  CBS  studios  afterward. 


MAN 
WANTED ! 

Name:  Elvis  Presley. 
Former  occupation:  Electrician. 
Charge:  Striking  today's 
biggest  sparks  in  teen-age  hearts 


By  LILLA  ANDERSON 


Every  kid,  at  eighteen,  cherishes  a  secret 
ambition  to  do  something  terrific — 
something  which  instantaneously  will 
assure  his  place  in  the  elusive  adult 
world.  Should  he  voice  that  dream,  how- 
ever, he  swiftly  hears  the  sound  advice: 
"Don't  fool  yourself.  There's  no  such 
thing  as  overnight  success.  Things  don't 
happen  that  way."  .  .  .  And  yet — just  often 
enough  to  keep  the  dream  alive — they  do. 
Three  years  ago,  Elvis  Aron  Presley, 
newly  graduated  from  high  school,  jing- 
ling in  his  jeans  money  which  he  had 
earned  on  the  assembly  line  in  an  air- 
plane factory,  walked  into  the  Sun  Record 
Company    in     {Continued    on    page   91) 

Off  stage,  2 1 -year-old  Elvis  is  quiet,  cool.  On  stage,  he's  an  incredible  dynamo  of 
hot  music,  hotter  movements.  The  Oakland  Tribune  photographed  the  kneeling  fans  below 
during  a  California  performance,  reported  that  Presley  sang  "as  if  he  had  grabbed  a 
|,ve  wire"— and  his  audience  reacted  "as  if  they  had  been  jolted  by  the  same  current." 


Tom  D.sk.n,  toUr  manager  awakens  Fan  ma.l  pours .  m  to  Presley's  awed  Off  again:  The  magic  merry-go-round 
Elv.s  to  one  of  those  busy  days  wh.ch  dehght.  Best  of  all,  no  letter  yet  has  has  spun  Elvis  to  an  RCA  Victor  record 
have  led  him  to  pt-propelled  stardom,     tned  to  tear  the  tassels  off  his  shoes!      contract  in  N.Y.,  movies  in  Hollywood 


Success  has  brought  two  diamond  rings,  four  Caddies — and  Appearing  on  Stage  Show  with  Tommy  and  Jimmy  Dorsey  was 

a  new  home  for  his  parents  in  thanks  "for  all  they've  done  a  great  thrill — and  a  challenge.  He  was  afraid  he  wouldn't  have 

for  me."  At  heart,   he's  still  the  same  casual  kind  of  guy  time  enough  to  "warm  up"  on  TV.  But  the  fans  were  more  than 

who  enjoys  simple  meals  and  small  talk  with  close  friends,  satisfied,  mobbed  him  as  usual  in  the  CBS  studios  afterward. 


.. ,. 


>// 


fv    I  I 


PSF 


1 


p*f  ■:-. 


i  -N;r* 


The  rise  of  Two  For  The  Money's  new  quipmaster  is 

as  old  as  America's  first  promise — and  as  inspiring 


34 


Left,  Sam  and  Esther  Levenson  with  their  own  two  "prob- 
lems in  child  psychology."  They  started  out  to  raise  son 
Conrad  by  the  book.  But,  by  the  time  Emily  Sue  came  along, 
Sam  was  discovering  new  virtues  in  old-fashioned  training. 


Teaching  was  never  like  this!  Sam  (above,  waiting  for  his 
son  at  P.S.  189,  three  years  ago)  finds  that  both  schools 
and  pupils  have  changed  since  he  turned  to  show  business. 


By  EVERETT  MOORE 

Sam  Levenson  may  be  in  show  business — but,  as 
everyone  in  Brooklyn  knows,  he  always  has  a  good, 
steady  job.     Currently,  he's  starring  in  Two  For 
The  Money,  CBS's  big  TV  and  radio  quiz  show. 
They  say  he's  quite  a  family  man,   too,  with  a  wife, 
two  children,  and  a  home  of  his  own  that's  actually 
paid  for.     Funny,  when  you  think  of  it,  though — how 
well  Sam  turned  out — considering  he  was  raised 
all  wrong.  (Continued  on  page  65) 

Sam  Levenson  is  quipmaster  of  Two  For  The  Money,  on  CBS-TV,  Sat., 
9  P.M.— on  CBS  Radio,  Sun,  8:30  P.M.— both  EDT,  sponsored  by  P. 
Lorillard  Co.  (Old  Gold  Cigarettes)  and  The  Bulova  Watch  Co,  Inc. 


No  more  hotel  rooms — Sam  and  Esther  now  own  their  home  in 
Brooklyn,  where  Sam  also  works  on  present  and  future  plans 
with  personal  manager  Harry  Levine  and  brother  Al  Levenson. 


As  humorist  and  as  solid  citizen,  Sam 
checks  fhe  latest  news  on  his  way  home. 


Who's  unhappy?   Not  Emily  Sue,  as  she 
welcomes  father  with  a  hug  and  a  kiss. 


So   his   son   wants   to   be   a    scientist? 
Sam's  all  for  it — Conrad's  happy,  too. 


~U 


H& 

^Tpl 

mwT "a 

W^^^B 

^M   M^S^ 

1  tT i    ^ '         f-"  *                  T 

LhEI 

asm 

LfMmer*    mMmmW 

^ 


H 


m 


*  i 


Triangle:  Elaine  Rost  faces 
husband  Staats  Cotsworth  and 
"office  wife"  Patsy  O'Shea. 


It  must  have  all  begun  a  long  time 
ago.  With  the  dinosaur  soup  bub- 
ling  in  the  background,  one  cave 
woman  must  have  turned  to  her 
neighbor.  "Isn't  it  a  shame  about 
Mrs.  Neanderthal?"  she  must  have 
begun.  When  she  had  finished,  she 
had  told  the  first  daytime  drama.  The 
technique,  polished  and  perfected 
through  the  years,  remains  basically 
the  same.  So  does  its  fascination.  So, 
too,  do  the  plots — the  same  basic  con- 
flicts with  which  humanity  has  al- 
ways wrestled.  Today  there  is  tele- 
vision, and  its  older  sister,  radio,  has 
responded  to  the  challenge  with  new 
programming  ideas  and  experiments. 
ABC  Radio  has  not  lagged  behind. 
But  one  of  its  oldest  concepts,  drama 
for  the  daytime,  continues  to  answer 
the   demand   to   "tell   me   a   story." 

MY  TRUE  STORY 

Truth  makes  the  strangest  fiction 
— and  the  best  drama.  It  makes  a 
formula  for  a  best-selling  magazine, 
True  Story,  and  a  highly  successful 
radio  program,  My  True  Story.  The 
dramatizations  are  based  on  the  life 
stories  of  actual  people,  as  published 
in  the  magazine.  The  names  have 
been  changed,  and  assumed  by  sen- 
sitive actors.  Events  are  unchanged. 

My  True  Story,  ABC  Radio,  M-F,  10-10:30 
A.M.  EDT,  is  sponsored  by  Foster-Milburn' 
Co.  (for  Doan's  Pills)  and  other  products. 


mm 

PATSY  O'SHEA 

Five  years  on  television,  thirteen 
years  on  stage,  fourteen  years  on 
radio — add  it  all  up  and  Patsy  O'Shea 
is  still  just  turned  twenty.  Once  an 
understudy  for  Shirley  Temple,  Patsy 
has  flaming  red  hair — "natural,"  she 
points  out.  Her  voice  range  is  from 
"baby  cries  to  20,"  her  acting  ranges 
from  ingenues  to  character  and  dia- 
lect roles.  A  diminutive,  unmarried 
five-one,  Patsy  collects  miniatures. 


Dramas  for 


36 


the  Daytime 


ABC  Radio  adds 
dramatic  stories  and 
fine  actors,  and  comes 
up  with  a  threesome 
of  top  programs 


STAATS  COTSWORTH 

This  Illinois  boy  wanted  to  be  an 
artist.  Instead,  he  wears  grease- 
paint, is  now  on  Broadway  in  "In- 
herit the  Wind."  But  radio's  former 
Casey,  Crime  Photographer  and 
Front  Page  Farrell  has  had  exhibits 
in  museums.  He  paints  the  town 
with  actress-wife,  Muriel  Kirkland. 


See  Next  Page  ^ 


ELAINE  ROST 

This  Ohio  Girl  wanted  to  sing.  She 
did — when  a  bandleader  spotted 
her  in  a  beauty  contest.  She  also  de- 
veloped her  acting  skill — and  was 
ready  when  a  radio  producer  decided 
to  solve  his  emergency  casting  prob- 
lem with  his  blond,  blue-eyed  recep- 
tionist. She's  since  appeared  in 
practically  every  daytime — and 
nighttime — drama  on  the  air.  She  is  a 
"sun-worshipper" — and  a  good  cook. 


37 


It  must  have  all  begun  a  long  time 
ago.  With  the  dinosaur  soup  bub- 
ling  in  the  background,  one  cave 
woman  must  have  turned  to  her 
neighbor.  "Isn't  it  a  shame  about 
Mrs.  Neanderthal?"  she  must  have 
begun.  When  she  had  finished,  she 
had  told  the  first  daytime  drama.  The 
technique,  polished  and  perfected 
through  the  years,  remains  basically 
the  same.  So  does  its  fascination.  So, 
too,  do  the  plots — the  same  basic  con- 
flicts with  which  humanity  has  al- 
ways wrestled.  Today  there  is  tele- 
vision, and  its  older  sister,  radio,  has 
responded  to  the  challenge  with  new 
programming  ideas  and  experiments. 
ABC  Radio  has  not  lagged  behind. 
But  one  of  its  oldest  concepts,  drama 
for  the  daytime,  continues  to  answer 
the   demand  to   "tell   me   a  story." 


MY  TRUE  STORY 

Truth  makes  the  strangest  fiction 
— and  the  best  drama.  It  makes  a 
formula  for  a  best-selling  magazine, 
True  Story,  and  a  highly  successful 
radio  program,  My  True  Story.  The 
dramatizations  are  based  on  the  life 
stories  of  actual  people,  as  published 
in  the  magazine.  The  names  have 
been  changed,  and  assumed  by  sen- 
sitive actors.  Events  are  unchanged. 

My  True  Story,  ABC  Radio,  M-F,  10-10:30 
A.M.  EDT,  is  sponsored  by  Foster-Milburn' 
Co.  (for  Doan's  Pills)  and  other  products. 


PATSY  O'SHEA 

Five  years  on  television,  thirteen 
years  on  stage,  fourteen  years  on 
radio — add  it  all  up  and  Patsy  O'Shea 
is  still  just  turned  twenty.  Once  an 
understudy  for  Shirley  Temple,  Patsy 
has  flaming  red  hair — "natural,"  she 
points  out.  Her  voice  range  is  from 
"baby  cries  to  20,"  her  acting  ranges 
from  ingenues  to  character  and  dia- 
lect roles.  A  diminutive,  unmarried 
five-one,   Patsy  collects  miniatures. 


Triangle:  Elaine  Rest  faces 
husband  Staats  Cotswortn  and 
"office  wife"  Patsy  O'Shea. 


Dramas  for 


the  Daytime 


ABC  Radio  adds 
dramatic  stories  and 
fine  actors,  and  comes 
up  with  a  threesome 
of  top  programs 


STAATS  COTSWORTH 

This  Illinois  boy  wanted  to  be  an 
artist.  Instead,  he  wears  grease- 
paint, is  now  on  Broadway  in  "In- 
herit the  Wind."  But  radio's  former 
Casey,  Crime  Photographer  and 
Front  Page  Farrell  has  had  exhibits 
in  museums.  He  paints  the  town 
with  actress-wife,  Muriel  Kirkland. 


See  Next  Page  } 


ELAINE  ROST 

This  Ohio  Girl  wanted  to  sing.  She 
did — when  a  bandleader  spotted 
her  in  a  beauty  contest.  She  also  de- 
veloped her  acting  skill — and  was 
ready  when  a  radio  producer  decided 
to  solve  his  emergency  casting  prob- 
lem with  his  blond,  blue-eyed  recep- 
tionist. She's  since  appeared  in 
practically  every  daytime — and 
nighttime — drama  on  the  air.  She  is  a 
"sun-worshipper" — and  a  good  cook. 


37 


Dramas  for  the  Daytime 


(Continued) 


Friends  can  always  count  on  Joan  and  Harry  Davis.  Strangers  learn  quickly  what  good  friends  these  two  can  b 


e. 


MARY  JANE  HIGBY 


M 


ary  Jane's  happy  Joan  has  a 

career.  She's  had  one  ever  since 

was    the    movies'    "Baby    Mary 


she 

Jane,"  and  she's  been  Joan  for  fif- 
teen years.  Married  to  actor  Guy 
Sorel,  she  likes  "double-crostics, 
Yeats  poetry,  riding  on  trains,  and 
the  hamburgers  you  get  in  Holly- 
wood." She  dislikes  "novels,  planes, 
the  hamburgers  you're  stuck  with  in 
New  York."  She  is  real — and  likeable. 


38 


JOHN  RABY 


John  has  been  lawyer  Harry  Davis 
since  1931,  but  he  almost  became 
a  Wall  Street  mogul  instead.  Then 
somebody  gave  John  a  pair  of  theater 
tickets — and  a  star  was  born.  John 
and  his  wife  Del  live  in  Teaneck, 
New  Jersey,  with  sons  Tony,  7,  and 
John,  Jr.,  12.  Says  John,  "When  a 
man  marries,  the  most  important 
thing  in  life  is  the  girl  he  marries." 
This  New  Yorker  wed  the  right  girl. 


WHEN  A  GIRL  MARRIES 


Ever  since  1939,  radio  listeners  have 
known  just  how  broadly  the 
word  "neighbor"  can  be  denned.  In 
the  story  of  Joan  and  Harry  Davis, 
they  have  followed  the  lives  of  two 
people  who  have  explored  each  of 
the  many  ways  of  helping  friends — 
and  strangers.  Happy  in  their  own 
love,  they  have  helped  others  toward 
that  same  happiness.  So  much  a  part 
of  the  town  they  live  in,  Joan  and 
Harry  have  come  to  feel  a  special  re- 
sponsibility for  the  welfare  of  all 
those  in  it.  Harry,  as  a  successful 
lawyer,  has  often  been  called  on  to 
deal  with  the  problems  of  others  from 
a  legal  point  of  view.  Joan's  ap- 
proach has  always  been  that  of  a 
woman  and  a  friend.  Now,  in  her 
work  on  the  magazine,  she  adds  one 
more  dimension  to  the  kindness  and 
heartfelt   warmth   of   a   "neighbor." 

When  A  Girl  Marries,  ABC  Radio,  M-F,  at  . 
10:30  A.M.   EDT,  for  Stokely-Van   Camp, 
the  Dromedary  Co.,  Arrid,  other  products. 


WHISPERING  STREETS 

The  man  across  from  you  on  the 
bus  .  .  .  the  girl  hurrying  to  mail 
a  letter  .  .  .  the  boy  walking  in  a 
daydream  .  .  .  each  carries  drama 
within  him.  Every  street  whispers  of 
the  drama  of  everyday  lives — and 
the  crises  and  conflicts  that  trans- 
form them.  When  the  whisper  rises 
to  a  shout,  sometimes  the  story  makes 
the  daily  newspapers.  But  the  stories 
that  don't  make  headlines  carry  as 
much  human  excitement  and  emo- 
tion. These  are  the  stories  that  are 
told  each  day  on  Whispering  Streets. 

Whispering  Streets,  ABC  Radio,  M-F,  10:45 
A.M. — Whitney  Frozen  Foods,  Doan's  Pills, 
Union    Pharmaceutical    and   Seeman    Bros. 


HOPE  WINSLOW 


WITH  the  eye  of  a  trained  ob- 
servor — and  the  heart  of  a 
woman — Hope  Winslow  discovers  the 
stories  that  are  to  be  found  almost 
everywhere  by  one  who  knows  how 
to  look  and  how  to  listen.  Each  day, 
she  narrates  a  new  human  drama. 


Tension  mounts  in  a  scene  with  King  Colder,  Henry  Barnard  and  Anne  Seymour. 


KING  CALDER 


ANNE  SEYMOUR 


HENRY  BARNARD 


Versatile  is  the  word  for  King 
Calder — whether  on  daytime 
dramas,  on  such  nighttime  programs 
as  Martin  Kane,  or  on  tour  with  such 
hits  as  "No  Time  for  Sergeants."  Also 
sentimental,  he  and  his  wife,  actress 
Ethel    Wilson,    treasure    heirlooms. 


The  seventh  generation  of  a  thea- 
trical family,  Anne  continues  the 
tradition  on  stage,  radio  and  TV — 
for  which  she  shed  twenty  pounds. 
Now  tall,  dark  and  svelte,  she  likes  to 
garden,  has  a  dog,  Kiki,  and  a  cat, 
Marmalade,  on  her  Connecticut  farm. 


Bachelor  Henry  Barnard  is  a  dog 
fancier  and  owns  six.  He  also 
grows  orchid  plants  and,  as  a  boy, 
wanted  to  become  an  explorer.  In- 
stead, he  studied  drama  at  Carnegie 
Tech  and  Actors'  Studio,  is  currently 
on  Broadway  in  "Inherit  the  Wind." 


39 


Young  daughter  Jeannie  loves  music,  What  Jeonnie  wants  to  be  is  a  farmer  But — she  also  likes  to  "dress  up"  and 
too — but  has  quite  another  ambition,  — perhaps  because  she's  fond  of  animals  stage  plays!  Whatever  her  girls  really 
one  which  Carol  also  knew  as  a  child,     and  takes  good  care  of  the  family  pets,     want,  Carol  will  help  them  to  achieve. 


Bob  Crosby  has  a  truly  colorful  trio  of  talented 
singers  on  his  variety  show — blonde  Joan  O'Brien, 
brunette  Cathy  Crosby,  redheaded  Carol  Richards. 


'^Weiy  to  Win 


By  BUD  GOODE 


We'll  race  you  to  the  corner!"  shouted  Judy  and 
Jeannie,  Carol  Richards'  teen-  and  ten-year-old  daugh- 
ters.   "Right!"  Carol  agreed,  accepting  the  challenge. 
"On  your  mark  .  .  .  get  set  .  .  .  go\"  and  the  three  girls 
were  racing  for  the  corner  drugstore  to  fulfill  their  daily 
ritual  in  summertime — three  dishes  of  any-flavored 
ice  cream. 

Carol  Richards,  the  pert,  hazel-eyed,  titian-haired  singer 
you've  seen  daily  on  the  CBS-TV  Bob  Crosby  Show  and 
heard  weekly  on  the  CBS  Radio  Edgar  Bergen  Show  is  one 
of  Hollywood's  brightest  charmers.   She  lives  a  life  of 
laughter  .  .  ."Smiles"  could  be  her  nickname  .  .  .  and 
enthusiasm,  verve,  bounce — call  it  what  you  will — is  her 
way  of  life.  With  their  two  dogs  barking  at  their  heels, 
and  her  bobby-soxed  daughters  racing  beside  her  down 
the  street,  Carol  and  Judy  and  Jean  looked  more  like  sisters 
than  mother  and  daughters.   Carol,  in  fact,  ran  barefoot! 

There  is  no  "standoffishness"  about  Carol  Richards.    She 
is  at  ease  in  any  environment.   "That  is  why,"  says  her 
secretary,  Adele  Millard,  "Carol's    (Continued  on  page  79) 


Carol  Richards  sings  on  The  Bob  Crosby  Show,  as  seen  on  CBS-TV,  Mondays  through  Fridays,  3:30  to  4  P.M.  EDT,  under  multiple  sponsorship. 


40 


1 


Carol  Richards,  of  the  big 

Bob  Crosby  daytime  variety  show, 

sings  toward  a  shining  goal 


Like  her  own  little,  girl,  she  once  wanted  to  be  a  farmer 
— but  Carol  now  cultivates  her  voice  instead!  And,  like 
her  brother,  she's  learned  the  magic  formula  for  clearing 
all  obstacles  to  find   the  career  and   home  of  her  dreams. 


41 


Sonny  Fox  Meete 

THE  $64,000  CHALLENGE 


No  wonder  he  loves  to  see  'em  win! 
Sonny's  always  losing  everything— 
except  the  woman  who  really  counts 

By  MARTIN  COHEN 


Sonny  fox  is  no  "Sonny-boy."   There  is  six-feet-    . 
and-three-inches  to  Mr.  Fox — plus  a  couple 
of  blue-gray  eyes,  dark  brown  hair,  and  170  pounds 
of  wit  and  good  humor.   His  favorite  sports  are 
high-fidelity  opera  (winter),  sailing  (summer),  and 
chess  (year-round).   He  has  a  wife  and  an  infant 
son,  and  makes  his  home  on  the  topside  of  Manhattan. 
At  thirty-one,  Sonny  has  become  a  brand-new 
celebrity.    While  Hal  Marches  on  with  The  $64,000 
Question,    Sonny    has    shot    star-high    with    The 
$64,000  Challenge.    Sonny  is  a  brand-new  quizmaster 
but   a   "natural,"   for   he   is   richly   endowed   with 
sympathy  for  contestants.   Especially  those  who 
lose.    Sonny  is  a  loser  from  'way  back. 

Losing  is  a  hobby— or,  rather,  a  specialty — with 
Sonny.    As  a  baby,  he  lost  his  diapers,  and  it's  been 
something  else  ever  since:    Coats,  schoolbooks, 


Continued 


► 


The  best  Sonny  can  do  is  come  out  even,  while  working  a 
crossword  puzzie  (or  playing  a  chess  game)  "just  for  fun." 


However,  far  as  he's  concerned,  Sonny's  already  won  the 
greatest  prizes  ever — wife  Gloria  and  son  Christopher. 


V 


■ 


■ 


Good   "loser"  that  he   is,   Sonny  takes      Hobbies — when    he    has    time — include 
care  of  everything  he  manages  to  keep!      photography    and    high-fidelity    opera. 


One  thing   he  doesn't  forget:    Flowers 
for  his  wife  at  the  neighborhood  shop. 


Sonny  Fox  Meek 

THE  $64,000  CHALLENGE 


Sonny  loves  his  apartment-home — loves  children,  too,  and 
is  a  happy  "baby-sitter"  when  it's  Gloria's  turn  to  go  out. 


(Continued) 


pens,  baseball  bats,  buildings,  socks,  people,  anything, 
everything,  anyone.  When  his  parents  first  met  his 
fiance,  they  warned  her:  "Be  extra  careful,  dear,  that 
you  don't  get  misplaced." 

Not  a  week  goes  by  that  Sonny  doesn't  lose  some- 
thing. It  might  be  something  as  simple  as  a  shaving 
kit  or  as  expensive  as  a  camera.  "Years  ago,  I  got 
used  to  this,"  he  says  cheerfully.  "It  was  hard  on 
Gloria  when  we  were  first  married,  but  now  she 
accepts  it,  too.  In  a  way,  it  makes  you  properly  dis- 
respectful of  material  things.  On  the  other  hand,  if  a 
woman  can  get  all  dressed  up  to  go  to  the  theater — 
discover  in  the  lobby  that  you  lost  the  tickets — and  she 
still  loves  you,  then  you  know  it's  the  real  thing." 

Sonny  and  the  former  Gloria  Benson  were  married 
in  Tokyo  in  1953.  They  have  made  their  home  in  New 
York  for  less  than  a  year.  Their  apartment,  overlook- 
ing the  Hudson  River,  is  in  Washington  Heights,  which 
is  at  the  northern  tip  of  Manhattan  Island.  Its  furnish- 
ings have  been  influenced  by  their  Japanese  home. 

"The  Japanese  use  a  minimum  of  furniture,"  Sonny 
explains,  "so  that  you  have  a  feeling  of  spaciousness. 
We  have  tried  for  that  uncrowded  feeling.  Our  furni- 
ture is  modern  and  contributes  to  the  feeling  of  space, 
for  most  of  it  has  wrought-iron  legs.  One  of  our 
friends  says  that  we  are  'overwrought'  with  iron.  We 
have  iron  legs  on  our  coffee  table,  chairs,  the  desk, 
dining  table.  Almost  everything  here  has  wrought- 
iron  legs — except  Gloria,  and  she's  very  pretty." 

Mrs.  Sonny  Fox  is  five-eight  and  fair,  with  brown 
hair  so  light  that  she  is  taken  for  blonde.    She  was 


44 


■ 


Married  in  Tokyo,   Sonny  and  Gloria   have  kept  their  taste  for  a  Japanese  simplicity  in   home 
decor.    Sonny  made  the  tables  himself,  using  doors — and  the  much-kidded  "overwrought"-iron  legs. 


born  Gloria  Benson  in  Rochester,  New  York,  majored 
in  sociology  at  Elmira  College,  and  never  expected  to 
end  up  in  New  York  City. 

Sonny  himself  was  born  in  the  big  city.  "We  lived 
in  Brooklyn,  and  that  in  itself  is  a  happy  circumstance. 
But  we  went  to  the  Giant  games.  We'd  go  up  to  the 
ball  park,  at  nine  in  the  morning,  to  line  up  for  a 
double-header.  Take  along  sandwiches.  Get  home  for 
dinner.  There  was  stick  ball  and  the  acquarium  and 
the  park.    Never  a  shortage  of  things  to  do." 

His  father,  a  textile  converter,  has  a  great  love  of 
family  and  music.  He  played  violin.  Sonny's  sisters, 
Phoebe  and  Shirley,  took  piano  lessons.  Sonny  tried 
the  violin  for  a  couple  of  years,  then  switched  to  the 
accordion. 

"Dad  was  a  real  pal,"  Sonny  recalls.  "Played  ball  with 
me.  Taught  me  to  roller  skate.  Things  like  that.  And 
he  was  so  understanding  about  the  split-pea  soup. 
You  know,  I  was  such  a  skinny  kid,  and  Mother  was 
always  trying  to  feed  me.  Every  time  we  had  split-pea 
soup,  I  was  told  that  I  had  to  eat  it.  I  hated  it.  Dad 
would  come  home  from  work  and  take  one  look  at  me 
sweating  over  the  bowl  and  say,  'Sonny,  you  don't 
have  to  eat  it.'  Today,  I  wouldn't  think  of  contradicting 
my  wife  in  front  of  my  child.  But,  thank  goodness,  my 
parents  weren't  so  progressive." 

"Sonny,"   of  course,  is  a    (Continued  on  page  72) 


Sonny  Fox  emcees  The  $64,000  Challenge,  seen  on  CBS-TV,  Sun.. 
10  P.M.  EDT,  sponsored  by  Revlon,  Inc.  and  Kent  Cigarettes. 
He  conducts  Let's  Take  A  Trip,  on  CBS-TV,  Sun.,  12  noon  EDT. 


View  of  the  Hudson  looks  great.    So  does  Sonny's  future, 
with  shows  like  $64,000  Challenge  and  Let's  Take  A  Trip. 


45 


*  "•Vttik"''  "*&""* 


As  Doctor's  Wife — or  designer's 
bride — Patricia  Wheel  has  a  special 
spot  in  her  heart  for  "Timothy" 

By  FRANCES  KISH 


From  the  very  first,  it  seemed  certain  that  the 
little  boy  born  last  April  11   to  Mr.   and  Mrs. 
Eric  Teran  should  be  named  "Timothy." 
Mrs.  Teran  is  actress  Patricia  Wheel,  well-known 
to  NBC  Radio  listeners  as  the  lovely  Julie  Palmer, 
of  The  Doctor's  Wife.  When  a  son  was  born  to  Julie, 
in  the  script  of  that  daily  dramatic  serial  a 
couple  of  years  ago,  it  was  Pat  Wheel  who  gave 
that  little  boy  the  name  of  Timothy.   "I  loved  it," 
she  says,  "and  hoped  some  day  to  have  a  son  of  my 
own  to  bear  it.  .  .  .  Happily,  Manya  Starr, 
creator  and  writer  of  (Continued  on  page  89) 

Patricia  Wheel  is  Julie  Palmer  in  The  Doctor's  Wife,  created 
by  Manya  Starr,  as  heard  on  NBC  Radio,  M-F,  3:45  P.M.  EDT. 


Timothy's  new  home  in  Connecticut  has  its  own  little 
lake — for  swimming  and  sailing,  in  years  to  come — fine  old 
trees  to  climb,  and  more  than  seven  acres  to  roam  about! 


Barbecue  terrace,  too — where  the  Terans'  indispensable 
Harold  serves  Eric,  Pat  and  their  good  neighbors,  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Victor  Muscat — and  a  big  studio,  where  Eric  designs 
such  industrial  packages  as  unique-style  cosmetic  bottles. 


Above,  Pat  helps  spruce  up  the  grounds  for  the  infant 
"laird  of  the  manor" — treasured  Timothy,  seen  at  left 
in  his  first  official  color  portrait,  with  his  talented 
mother  and   his   industrial-designer  father,    Eric  Teran. 


Relaxing  in  the  comfortable  Daly  home,  "busy  male"  John 
— vice-president  and  news  expert  for  ABC,  as  well  as  a 
popular  panel-emcee — is  very  glad  "astute  female"  Kit 
changed  her  mind  about  him  after  that  first  blind  date! 


Today,  some  nineteen  years  later,  their  family  includes 
three  children — left  to  right,  as  seated  on  couch  below: 
John  Charles  Daly,  Jr.,  known  as  "Charles";  John  Neal 
Daly,  who's  called  "Johnny";  Helene,  nicknamed  "Buncy." 


cmtaJwm) fe$ 


His  future  wife's  reaction, 
upon  first  meeting  John  Daly, 
would  never  qualify  her  as 
a  panelist  on  What's  My  Line? 

By  MARIE   HALLER 


Since  he  is  one  of  those  rare  creatures  who 
are  quick  to  give  women  credit  for  their  astute 
reactions  to  people,  it  must  be  with  mixed  feelings 
that  John  Daly — vice-president  in  charge  of 
ABC's  News  and  Special  Events,  newscaster  of 
ABC-TV's  John  Daly  And  The  News,  and 
moderator,  referee  and  emcee  of  CBS-TV's  What's 
My  Line? — reflects  upon  his  wife's  first  statement 
regarding  her  future  husband:   "I'll  be  darned 
if  I'll  spend  any  more  time  with  that  idiot!" 

Nevertheless,  over  the  course  of  nineteen  happily 
married  years,  John  has  learned  to  respect  Kit's 
ability  to  size  up  people.  Kit  usually  reserves 
judgment  until  she  knows   the   person   a   little 
better   than   a   brief,   casual   meeting.    On   the 
other  hand,  John,  a  dynamo  of  no  mean  proportions, 
admits  to  being  more  inclined  to  jump  at  a 
conclusion,    sometimes   having   to    revamp   his 
decision   as    time    and    acquaintanceship    progress. 
On  one  occasion,  he  was  known  to  try  to  explain 
this  male- versus -female  phenomenon  by  saying 
that,  from  a  very  early  age,  the  average  male  is 
concerned  with  concentrating  on  earning   a 
livelihood  and  has  little  time  for  the  contemplation 
of  people  and  their  private  lives.   On  the  other 
hand,  the  average  female — relieved  of  the 
absorbing   chore    of   making   money — is    free   to 
engage  in  talk,  thought  and  speculation  about 
other  people. 

Then,  sensing  that  this  explanation  was  not 
about  to  result  in  the  addition  of  a  trophy  to  his 
impressive  collection  of  awards,  he  wiggled  out 
from  under  in  a  typically  masculine  way: 
"When  you  get  right  down  (Continued  on  page  88) 

John  Daly  is  moderator  of  What's  My  Line?,  over  CBS-TV, 
Sunday,  10:30  P.M.  EDT,  as  sponsored  by  Jules  Montenier, 
Inc.  and  Remington  Rand,  Inc.  John  Daly  And  The  News  is 
seen  on  ABC-TV,  Mondays  through  Fridays,  7:15  P.M.  EDT, 
as    sponsored    by   Miles    Laboratories,   Inc.    and    Time,   Inc. 


Together  homemaker  Kit  and  newscaster  John  have  shared 
the  excitement  of  his  career.  Between  school  terms,  son 
Johnny  has  also  shared  in  the  tricks  of  the  moderator's 
trade,  on  a  holiday  visit  to  What's  My  Line?  at  CBS-TV. 


49 


So  in  LOVE, 


Don  Hastings  found  "the"  girl  in 
Bermuda  one  evening — and  "the"  role 
at  CBS-TV  on  The  Edge  Of  Night! 

By  ELIZABETH  BALL 


One  day  late  last  autumn,  young  actor  Don 
Hastings  flew  to  Bermuda  for  the  purpose 
of  making  a  television  film.  On  that 
enchanted  isle  of  coral  reefs,  jade-green  seas, 
shining  sands  and  lilies,  he  fell  in  love.  For 
keeps.  .   .   .   Two  months  later,   or  thereabouts, 
the  five-foot-eleven,  dark-haired,  blue-eyed 
young  man  in  love  was  also  in  luck:  He  signed 
a  five-year  contract  with  CBS  and  is  currently 
to  be  seen  at  4:30  P.M.,  Monday  through 
Friday,  in  the  role  of  Jack  Lane  on  the  half- 
hour  dramatic  serial,  The  Edge  Of  Night,  over 
CBS-TV.  .  .  .  Slightly  wonderful,  isn't  it,  to 
be  double-dating  Lady  Luck  and  the  girl  who 
is  Your  Girl  .  .  .  and  all  (Continued  on  page  82) 

Don  Hastings  is  Jack  Lane  in  The  Edge  Of  Night.  CBS- 
TV,  M-F,  4:30  to  5  P.M.  EDT,  sponsored  by  Procter  & 
Gamble  Co.  for  Tide,  Crest>  Camay,  and  Spic  and  Span. 


Nan,  Don's  fiance,  lives  in  Toronto,  can  only  get 
down  to  New  York  for  holiday  visits  (left).  While 
he  waits,  Don  plays  their  favorite  records — alone. 


So  in  LUCK 


Daily  drama  on  TV:  Teal  Ames  and  Don  play  sister 
and  brother,  Sara  and  Jack  Lane,  John  Larkin  is 
Detective  Lieut.  Mike  Karr,  in  The  Edge  Of  Night. 


First  "family  portrait":  Don's  father  and  mother,  their  future 
daughter-in-law  and  actor  son.  Don  now  lives  at  home  with  them  on 
Long  Island,  is  looking  for  a  near-by  ranch  house — "not  too  big." 


Drama  for  a  whole  lifetime  together:  Nan  and  Don 
look  at  floor  plans  and  furnishing  tips — and  brush 
up  on  their  game,  so  Nan  won't  be  a  "golf  widow." 


MMH        ■'-  '"■*■■"; 


Ruth  and  daughter' Karen  welcome  you  to  Gate  House — 
and  son  Timothy  holds  open  house  in  a  fitting  enclosure. 


A  mother  should  be  "a  whole  person,"  thinks  Ruth — who 
finds  a  vital  message  in  everything  from  flowers  to  books. 


1 


\   -I 


She's  a  sunny  girl,  beside  her  beloved  Hudson — but  Ruth  also 
knows  the  darker  moods  of  Edith  Hughes,  in  As  The  World  Turns. 


ii 


Particularly  if  she's 
Ruth  Warrick,  whose  life  is 
ever  richer  and  more 
exciting,  "as  the  world  turns 

By  PETER  CHARADE 

It's  always  fun  to  call  on  an  actress  you've 
never  met  before.     There's  no  telling  what  to 
expect.     When  the  actress  is  Ruth  Warrick, 
and  you're  a  fan  who  has  followed  her  career, 
there's  even  no  telling  who  she's  going  to  be.  .  .  . 
As  you  drive  from  Manhattan  out  to 
Scarborough-on-Hudson,  you  recall  that  once — 
when  Ruth  was  just  starting  out — she  was 
"Miss  Jubilesta,"  queen  of  a  big  fall  festival 
in  Kansas  City.     She  sang  songs,  made  speeches, 
kissed  babies,  marched  in  parades,  went  to  bat 
in  a  night  baseball  game,  (Continued  on  page  74) 


I 


Ruth  Warrick  is  Edith  Hughes  in  As  The  World  Turns,  on 

CBS-TV,  M-F,  1 :30  to  2  P.M.  EDT,  sponsored  by  Procter 

Gamble  Company  for  Ivory  Snow,  Oxydol,  and  Crisco. 


There's  only  one  name  for  the  "combo"  headed  by  husband  Bob 
McNamara!  Ruth's  in  charge  of  the  strings,  Tim  helps  Dad  on  the 
drums,  older  son  Jon  handles  the  brass,  Karen  the  woodwinds.  In- 
this  household,  St.  Patrick's  Day  is  bigger  than  New  Year's  Eve. 


53 


mm  j 


Particularly  if  she's 
Ruth  Warrick,  whose  life  is 
ever  richer  and  metre 
exciting,  "as  the  world  turns' 

By  PETER  CHARADE 


It's  always  fun  to  call  on  an  actress  you've 
never  met  before.     There's  no  telling  what  to 
expect.    When  the  actress  is  Ruth  Warrick, 
and  you're  a  fan  who  has  followed  her  career, 
there's  even  no  telling  who  she's  going  to  be.  .  .  . 
As  you  drive  from  Manhattan  out  to 
Scarborough-on-Hudson,  you  recall  that  once — 
when  Ruth  was  just  starting  out— she  was 
Miss  Jubilesta,"  queen  of  a  big  fall  festival 
in  Kansas  City.     She  sang  songs,  made  speeches, 
kissed  babies,  marched  in  parades,  went  to  bat 
m  a  night  baseball  game,  (Continued  on  page  74) 

Ruth  Warrick  is  Edith  Hughes  in  As  The  World  Turns,  on 
LBS-TV,  M-F,  1:30  t0  2  P.M.  EDT,  sponsored  by  Procter 
&  Gamble  Company  for  Ivory  Snow,  Oxydol,  and  Crisco. 


She's  a  sunny  girl,  beside  her  beloved  Hudson — but  Ruth  also 
knows  the  darker  moods  of  Edith  Hughes,  in  As  The  World  Tunis. 


There's  only  one  name  for  the  "combo"  headed  by  husband  Bob 
McNamara!  Ruth's  in  charge  of  the  strings,  Tim  helps  Dad  on  the 
drums,  older  son  Jon  handles  the  brass,  Karen  the  woodwinds.  In- 
this  household,  St.  Patrick's  Day  is  bigger  than  New  Year's  Eve. 


53 


"  Y ua\i  'BuXtOfi  McmtC/ 


Once  Myron's  pupil,  back  in  mid-teens,  Berdyne's  now  his  wife — 
and  mother  of  the  Floren  daughters:  Kristie  Ann,  4;  Randy  Lee,  6; 
Robin  Gay,  2.  He  thinks  the  girls  are  a  bit  young  for  accordion 
lessons,  but  Randy  studies  piano — and  they're  all  eager  "artists." 


Myron  Floren's  accordion  won 
him  a  lifetime  romance— 
and  a  lifetime  job  with 
Lawrence  Welk's  great  band 


By  GORDON  BUDGE 


IT  was  back  in  September,  1931,  that  Myro: 
Floren — now  star  accordionist  with  Law- 
rence Welk  on  ABC — played  his  first  "pro- 
fessional" job  at  the  Day  County  Fair  in  his 
home  town  of  Webster,  South  Dakota.  Today, 
Myron  says,  rather  apologetically,  "Miss 
Swenson,  the  music  teacher  who  first  taught 
me  rhythm  and  note  reading,  urged  her  County 
Commissioner  father  to  give  me  the  job." 
Eleven-year-old  Myron  worked  two  days 
for  ten  dollars. 

But  Myron,  shy  by  nature,  didn't  have  to 
apologize  for  the  seeming  "political"  patronage. 
The  fact  was  that,  without  a  lesson  in  his 
life,  Myron  had  won  two  amateur  contests — 
one  on  piano,  the  other  on  accordion — and 
well  deserved  to  step  up  into  the  professional 
ranks,  young  as  he  was. 

Twenty-five  years  later,  on  June  12,  1956. 
accordion  strapped  (Continued  on  page  76) 


Myron  is  on  The  Lawrence  Welk  Show,  ABC-TV,  Sat., 
9   to   10   P.M.   EDT,   for   Dodge   Dealers   of   America. 


Of  course,  they  must  have  "magic  boxes"  like 
Dad's!    (Kris's  tiny  one   is  a   gift  from   Welk.) 


™ 


His  girls  are  Myron's  pride  today.-   He's  glad 
Berdyne  had  a  solution  for  his  irfnate  shyness! 


Playing  accordion  with  Lawrence  Welk  is  Myron's  idea  of  the  best 
career  a  South  Dakotan  could  ever  have.  The  job  with  Welk's  band 
meant  good  fortune  for  the  Florens  from  the  start,  and  Myron  is  a 
happy  man  as  he  drives  off  to  the  work  he'll  always  consider  play. 


For  Mike  Wallace, 
it  has  all  come  true— 
from  wife  and  home, 
to  Weekday  and 
The    Big    Surprise! 


By  GLADYS   HALL 


56 


In  the  life,  the  personal  and  professional  life,  of  radio  and  TV's 
unexpendable  Mike  Wallace,  the  past  year  was — and  will  be 
long  remembered  by  him  as— "The  Year."  The  year  during 
which  what  he  describes  as  "one  of  those  things  you  dream  about 
that  never  come  to  pass"  did,  for  him,  come  to  pass,  did  come 
true,  and  is  for  real.  ... 

When  the  tide  turns  in  a  man's  life,  some  attendant  phenomena 
might  be  expected — a  flash  of  lightning,  (Continued  on  page  93) 

Mike  now  hosts  Stars  In  Action,  NBC  Radio,  Thurs.,  9:30  P.M.  EDT,  as  pre- 
sented in  cooperation  with  the  National  Guard.  Mike  Wallace  And  The  News 
is  seen  on  Du  Mont  Station  WABD  (New  York) ,  M-F,  7  P.M.,  for  Bond  Clothes. 


Love  of  children  is  surely  one  of  the  strongest  bonds 
two  people  can  ever  have — and  Mike  has  two  sturdy  sons 
by  a  previous  marriage:  Peter,   13,  and  Christopher,  8. 


Lorraine  also  has  two  fine  youngsters  by  a  previous 
marriage:  Anthony,  16,  and  Pauline,  9.  Mike  takes  all 
four  to  his  heart,  proudly  calls  them  "our  children." 


They've  found  their  safe  harbor  in  Snedens  Landing, 
not  too  far  from  New  York  City — at  "Solley  House,"  a 
historic  old  place  with  a  fabulous  greenhouse  which 
Lorraine  Wallace,  who  is  an  artist,  uses  as  her  studio. 


57 


By  GLADYS  HALL 


In  the  life,  the  personal  and  professional  life,  of  radio  and  TV's 
unexpendable  Mike  Wallace,  the  past  year  was— and  will  be 
long  remembered  by  him  as— "The  Year."  The  year  during 
which  what  he  describes  as  "one  of  those  things  you  dream  about 
that  never  come  to  pass"  did,  for  him,  come  to  pass,  did  come 
true,  and  is  for  real.  ... 

When  the  tide  turns  in  a  man's  life,  some  attendant  phenomena 
might  be  expected— a  flash  of  lightning,  (Continued  on  page  93) 

Mike  now  hosts  Stars  In  Action.  NBC  Radio,  Thurs.,  9:30  PM   EDT 
sented  in  cooperation  with  the  National  Guard.  Mike  Wallace  And  TheVJZ 
is  seen  on  Du  Mont  Station  WABD  (New  York) ,  M-F  7PM   for  Bond  CI  th 


For  Mike  Wallace, 
it  has  all  come  true— 
from  wife  and  home, 
to  Weekday  and 
The    Big    Surprise! 


Love  of  children  is  surely  one  of  the  strongest  bonds 
two  people  can  ever  have — and  Mike  has  two  sturdy  sons 
by  a  previous  marriage:  Peter,   13,  and  Christopher,  8. 


Lorraine  also  has  two  fine  youngsters  by  a  previous 
marriage:  Anthony,  16,  and  Pauline,  9.  Mike  takes  all 
four  to  his  heart,  proudly  calls  them  "our  children." 


They've  found  their  safe  harbor  in  Snedens  Landing, 
not  too  far  from  New  York  City— at  "Solley  House,"  a 
historic  old  place  with  a  fabulous  greenhouse  which 
Lorraine  Wallace,  who  is  an  artist,  uses  as  her  studio. 


57 


Mary  Linn  and  her  husband,  Bob  Pitofsky,  have  a  larger 
apartment  than  most  newlyweds  move  into — they're  look- 
ing  forward   to   the   day  they'll    be   parents   themselves. 


V^ 


_ 


■  ^* 


>«•    v 


»-    « 


. 


£V 


^ 


By 
MARION  HELMAN 

I'm  probably  one  of  the  luckiest, 
happiest  girls  in  the  whole  world," 
bubbles  petite  Mary  Linn  Beller, 
better  known  to  radio  and  TV  audi- 
ences as  Babby  on  CBS's  The 
Brighter  Day.  "And  it's  so  strange 
the  way  all  these  good  things  hap- 
pen to  me.  I  don't  push  .  .  .  really  I 
don't.  Things  just  happen.  When  I 
think  about  it,  it  has  a  distinctly  so- 
bering effect.  I  find  myself  wonder- 
ing: Why?  Why  was  I  chosen  to  be 
so  happy  ...  so  lucky  ...  to  have  so 
few  problems?  Why  can't  everybody 
be  so  blessed?" 

It  is  definitely  to  Mary  Linn's  credit 
that  these  questions  do  occur  to  her. 
Without  them — and  with  all  her  nat- 
ural advantages — she  could  easily  be- 
come something  of  an  egotist.  As  it  is, 
she  is  warm,  outgoing,  sympathetic 
.  .  .  'way  beyond  her  tender  years  .  .  . 
and  quite  willing  to  give  credit  where 
credit  is  due. 

Although  she  has  always  wanted  to 
be   an   ac-    (Continued   on  page  96) 

The  Brighter  Day  is  seen  on  CBS-TV,  M-F, 
4  P.M.  EDT,  as  sponsored  by  The  Procter 
&  Gamble  Co.  for  Cheer,  Gleern  and  Crisco. 


Like  Babbv  of 

The  Brighter  Day, 

Mary  Linn  Beller  grew 

up  to  know  the 

full  meaning  of  gratitude 


Lucky  daughter,  lucky  wife — lucky  actress.  She's 
Babby  Dennis  (and  Peter  Donat  is  the  Rev.  Dennis's 
assistant,  Stephen  Markley)  in  The  Brighter  Day. 


' 


Mary  Linn  and  her  husband,  Bob  Pitofsky,  have  a  larger 
apartment  than  most  newlyweds  move  into— they're  look- 
ing  torward   to  the   day  they'll   be   parents  themselves. 


By 
MARION  HELMAN 

I'm  probably  one  of  the  luckiest, 
happiest  girls  in  the  whole  world," 
bubbles  petite  Mary  Linn  Beller, 
better  known  to  radio  and  TV  audi- 
ences as  Babby  on  CBS's  The 
Brighter  Day.  "And  it's  so  strange 
the  way  all  these  good  things  hap- 
pen to  me.  I  don't  push  .  .  .  really  I 
don't.  Things  just  happen.  When  I 
think  about  it,  it  has  a  distinctly  so- 
bering effect.  I  find  myself  wonder- 
ing: Why?  Why  was  I  chosen  to  be 
so  happy  ...  so  lucky  ...  to  have  so 
few  problems?  Why  can't  everybody 
be  so  blessed?" 

It  is  definitely  to  Mary  Linn's  credit 
that  these  questions  do  occur  to  her. 
Without  them—and  with  all  her  nat- 
ural advantages — she  could  easily  be- 
come something  of  an  egotist.  As  it  is, 
she  is  warm,  outgoing,  sympathetic 
.  .  .  'way  beyond  her  tender  years  .  .  . 
and  quite  willing  to  give  credit  where 
credit  is  due. 

Although  she  has  always  wanted  to 
be   an   ac-    (Continued   on  page  96 J 


kike  Babby  of 

The  Brighter  Day, 

Mary  Linn  Heller  grew 

up  to  know  the 

full  meaning  of  gratitude 


Lucky  daughter,  lucky  wife— lucky  actress.  She's 
Babby  Dennis  (and  Peter  Donat  is  the  Rev.  Dennis's 
assistant,  Stephen  Markley)  in  The  Brighter  Day. 


The  Brighter  Day  is  seen  on  CBS-TV,  M-F, 
4  P.M.  EOT.  as  sponsored  by  The  Procter 
&  Gamble  Co.  for  Cheer.  Gleem  and  Crisco. 


Wh 


Wh 


SHOW 


Music  is  his  business — but  it  also  runs  in  Tommy  Dorsey's  family.  Son  Steve  is 
"crazy  on  the  toy  sax,"  daughter  Susan  plays  piano,  wife  Jane  is  an  ex-dancer. 
Below,  the  "sentimental  gentleman's"  Connecticut  home  boasts  an  office-playroom. 


s 


tage  Show  is  Broadway  revisited.  For  New  York- 
ers, the  CBS  television  spectacle  is  reminiscent  of  the 
Saturday  nights  when  the  most  exciting  date  in 
town  was  to  wait  upwards  of  an  hour  in  line  for  the 
privilege  of  swooning  in  the  aisles  over  the  biggest 
bands,  the  slenderest  crooners  and  the  leggiest  dancers 
in  the  land — appearing  in-person  in  the  "stage  shows" 
of  such  movie  palaces  as  the  Capitol  and  the  Paramount. 
These  "stage  shows,"  which  rocked  Manhattan  Isle 
and  reverberated  from  coast  to  coast,  were  a  beacon 
among  the  gay  white  lights  that  symbolized  Broadway 
to  those  north,  south  and  west  of  the  fabulous  street. 
Now,  they've  been  transplanted  in  toto  to  television. 
The  band  is  under  the  combined  baton  of  Tommy  and 
Jimmy  Dorsey.  The  dancers  put  their  precise  best- 
foot-forward  under  the  aegis  of  June  Taylor.  The 
guest  "acts"  are  headliners.  .  .  .  Dorseyland,  like  the 
mythical  kingdom  of  Graustark,  isn't  on  the  map.  But 
it  has  some  royal  citizens.  Tommy  Dorsey's  was  the 
first  large  dance  band  to  play  a  theater  as  a  featured 


™ 


"Mom"  Dorsey  has  a  weekly  date  with  her  boys  at  the  Statler,  where  the  Dorseys 
have  a  fabulous  five-year  contract.  She*  "digs"  jazz,  likes  to  "do"  her  adopted 
town  of  Manhattan  with  her  boys.   Jimmy  also  makes  his  home  in  New  York  City. 


Tommy,  Jimmy  and  June— the 
fabulous  Dorseys  and  the  precise 
and  pretty  Miss  Taylor— present  an 
extravaganza  of  sights  and  sounds 


attraction.  Jimmy  Dorsey's  is  the  saxophone  that 
launched  an  industry — that  of  the  juke  box.  .  .  .  The 
founder  of  Dorseyland  was  the  boys'  father,  Thomas, 
Sr.,  the  leader  of  a  brass  band  in  Mahanoy  Plane,  Penn- 
sylvania. His  sons  still  wore  kneepants  when  they 
started  filling  in  as  utility  men  in  their  father's  band. 
They  were  still  in  their  teens  when  they  played  with 
the  "Scranton  Sirens,"  a  famous  "hot"  band  of  the  day. 
They  went  on  to  other  top  bands,  winding  up  their  ap- 
prenticeship with  Paul  Whiteman.  In  1934,  they  made 
musical  history  with  their  own  orchestra.  Bob  Crosby 
was  their  vocalist,  Ray  McKinley  played  the  drums,  the 
late  Glenn  Miller  played  second  trombone.  Then,  after 
two  years,  came  a  note  of  disagreement.  .  .  .  The  Dor- 
seys split  up,  each  forming  an  orchestra  around  his  own 
conception  of  music.  Mixing  sweet  and  swing  num- 
bers, Tommy  became  "the  sentimental  gentleman  of 
swing."  He  was  also  a  star-maker  for  such  vocalists 
as  Frank  Sinatra,  the  Pied  Pipers,  Dick  Haymes,  Jo 
Stafford  and  Connie  Haines.   Jimmy's  "contrasts  in  mu- 

Continued     t 


WHo's  WH< 


on 


(continued) 


Tommy  remembers  three  things  about  his  "pro"  debut:  He 
wore  knee  pants;  they  were  Jimmy's  hand-me-downs;  the  fee 
was  sixty-eight  cents.  Now,  with  "Frou-Frou"  and  the  family, 
he  watches  baseball  from  the  patio  of  a  Greenwich  showplace. 


Stage  Show  stars  the  Dorsey  Brothers  with  the  June  Taylor  Dancers 
on  CBS-TV,  Sat.,  8:30  P.M.  EDT,  sponsored  by  The  Nestle  Co.  for 
Nescafe,  other  products.  A  Jackie  Gleason  Enterprises  production, 
it  follows  his  8  P.M.  presentation  of  The  Honeymooners  on  CBS-TV. 


sic"  emphasized  a  sweeter  style  which  made  standards 
of  such  tunes  as  "Amapola,"  "Green  Eyes,"  and  "Be- 
same  Mucho."  The  roster  of  his  alumni  includes  Helen 
O'Connell  and  Bob  Eberle.  ...  Then,  after  seventeen 
years  of  "friendly"  feudin'  and  fussin',  Tommy  and 
Jimmy  once  again  pooled  their  resources.  They  were 
older,  wiser — and  as  different  from  each  other  as  per- 
haps only  two  brothers  can  be.  Tommy,  the  younger 
brother,  is  the  more  outgoing.  "Introduce  him  to  some- 
one," says  a  friend,  "and  in  five  minutes,  they're  ready 
to  vote  for  him  for  president."  He's  a  boon  companion 
— unreachable  only  during  Yankee  baseball  games.  If 
Tommy's  happy,  you  know  it.  If  he's  mad,  you'll  hear 
about  it.  .  .  .  Jimmy  is  more  quiet,  more  reserved.  "In- 
troduce him  to  someone,"  says  a  friend,  "and  he  has  to 
think  about  it  for  two  weeks  before  he  decides  if  he 
likes  them."  Jimmy  is  withdrawn — until  you  mention 
golf.  If  he's  happy,  you  may  not  be  aware  of  it.  If  he 
has  a  gripe,  he'll  brood  about  it  for  months  before  men- 
tioning it.  .  .  .  Tommy  lives  spaciously  and  elegantly  in 
a  home  in  Greenwich,  Connecticut.  He  is  married  to 
Jane  New,  a  former  dancer  whom  he  met  at  a  Holly- 
wood party.  His  daughter  Susan,  seven,  plays  the 
piano;  his  son  Steve,  four,  is  "crazy  on  the  toy  sax.". 
.  .  .  Jimmy  calls  a  New  York  apartment  home  and  is 
one-up  on  Tommy  since  his  daughter  Julie  presented 
him  with  a  granddaughter.  Away  from  music,  his  in- 
terests are  golf  .  .  .  period  .  .  .  end  of  paragraph.  .  .  . 
Different?  Yes.  Differences?  Not  really.  They  even 
date  the  same  girl,  Theresa  Dorsey,  better  known  as 
"Mom"  Dorsey.  She's  eighty-one,  loves  music  and  "digs" 
jazz.  She'll  come  to  hear  the  show  the  boys  play  at  the 
Statler,  then  do  the  town  with  them.  As  fabulous  as 
her  sons,  she  was  told  that  Earl  Wilson,  the  glamour 
columnist,  would  call  at  her  New  York  apartment  to  do 
a  Mother's  Day  story  on  her.  "Tell  him  I'll  wear  a 
sweater,"  said  "Mom."  .  .  .  The  Dorsey  music  is  dancing 
music — and  June  Taylor  couldn't  be  happier.  The 
ideas  that  set  her  sixteen  girls  going  through  their 
terpsichorean  patterns  and  paces  always  begin  with  a 
piece  of  music.  Choreographer  June's  only  dilemma 
is  that  of  a  child  in  a  candy  store  wondering  what  to 
choose  first.  And  the  boss-man  of  Jackie  Gleason  En- 
Continued    i 


The  house  that  swing  built  "jumps"  with  plans  for  new 
records — in  audiences  and  on  wax.  Broadway's  far  off,  but 
a  Iways  in  mind  for  TD  and  business  manager  VinceCarbone. 


\'p* 


^       / 

9to         ■  -.  *  *J| 

R^ 

^■■c  vH 

ji^njtf''  -  ^^H         ^^v* 

i^S^     ■■£ 

'•*f%0 

*t5 

■J*            j     B§i^^^         -^      "^^^    re^fi* 

^H^^^^H 

1  x  ;fcS 

Precision  dancing  means  just  that.  It  takes  training,   discipline,   rehearsals  and   more  rehearsals. 


First,  a  piece  of  music  sets  June  Taylor's  mind  dancing. 
Then,  when  she's  worked  out  the  patterns  and  paces  through 
which  to  put  her  girls,  she  diagrams  them  on  a  blackboard. 


Sometimes,  what  seemed'  like  a  good  idea,  wasn't.  Rehearsals 
see  a  number  of  creative  changes.  Choreography,  says  June, 
is  like  sculpture.  "You  have  to  mold  and  mold  and  remold." 


Who's  Wh« 


(Continued) 


Shutterbugs  Sol  and  June  Taylor  Lerner  can  focus  on  the 
Queensboro  Bridge  from  their  apartment  terrace.  The  camera 
goes  along  on  all  trips  and  often  they  bring  *home  souvenirs. 
"Copa"  (below)  dates' from  a  booking  at  Miami  Beach's  Copa. 


Paintings  are  another  joint  hobby.  The  Lerners'  walls 
are  lined  with  "finds"  from  Paris.  They're  working-partners 
too.  Sol,  who  started  as  a  chaperon,  is  now  June's  manager. 

terprises,  which  produces  Stage  Show,  is  famed  for  a 
largess  to  match  the  repertory.  Says  June,  "I'll  get  an 
idea  like  'let's  have  a  banjo  player,'  and  Jackie  will  de- 
velop it — like  'let's  have  sixteen  banjo  players.' "... 
It's  a  choreographer's  dream  come  true.  The  dream  it- 
self started  when  June  was  four  and  her  mother  played 
phonograph  records  while  June  fluttered  around  the 
kitchen  of  a  cold-water  flat  on  Chicago's  South  Side. 
When  June  couldn't  afford  to  pay  for  her  dancing  les- 
sons, her  teacher,  Merriel  Abbott,  let  the  ten-year-old 
give  instruction  to  other  pupils.  ...  At  thirteen,  June 
lied  about  her  age  and  turned  "pro"  in  night  clubs, 
theaters  and  with  such  bands  as  those  of  Ted  Weems, 
Ben  Bernie  and  Ted  Lewis.  She  never  stopped  study- 
ing, she  never  stopped  dancing — and  she  never  stopped 
to  count  the  physical  cost.  She  admits  to  "relying  on  a 
couple  of  aspirins  to  see  me  through."  .  .  .  She  had  just 
turned  nineteen,  had  danced  in  all  the  capitals  of  Eu- 
rope and  had  a  brand-new  seven-year  contract  with 
Alexander  Korda's  film  company  in  London.  Then, 
virtually  without  warning,  it  struck.  Tuberculosis. 
June  was  to  spend  the  next  two  years  in  hospital  beds. 
The  doctors  told  her  she  would  never  dance  again.  .  .  . 
But  dance  was — and  is — June's  life.  She  collected  her 
first  line  of  girls  in  1942,  debuted  on  TV  in  1948,  with 
Ed  Sullivan.  Today,  she  has  two  nomination  plaques 
and  an  Emmy  statue  in  the  anteroom  of  another  dream 
come  true — her  own  dance  school,  opened  this  year.  .  .  . 
The  school's  anteroom  is, lined  with  color  photographs 
of  June  Taylor  TV  productions.  The  photographer  is 
June's  husband  and  manager,  Sol  Lerner.  They've 
been  married  eleven  years  now,  but  they  met  nine  years 
before  that.  Just  arrived  in  New  York,  June  had 
looked  up  an  agent  who  volunteered  to  take  care  of  her, 
"but  too  well,"  she  laughs.  They  ran  into  Sol,  whom 
June  promptly  enlisted  as  chaperon.  .  .  .  The  Lerners 
live  in  a  comfortable  three-and-a-half-room  apartment 
on  New  York's  elegant  Sutton  Terrace.  June  cant- 
ers in  the  park  on  Sunday  mornings.  "It  clears  my 
mind,"  she  says.  "I  can't  think  of  anything  else  but  the 
horse."  .  .  .  But  dancing  is  never  far  from  la  Taylor's 
mind.  "There  is  no  method  at  all,"  she  says  of  her 
modus  operandi.  "It's  like  a  sculptor  with  a  statue. 
You  have  to  mold  and  mold  and  remold."  .  .  .  The  June 
Taylor  girls  are  sixteen  individuals.  June's  ideal  is  a 
good-looking,  well-proportioned,  all-around  dancer. 
She's  found  it  in  girls  who  come  from  every  part  of  the 
country.  They  are  all  of  voting  age;  half  of  them  are 
married.    There  is  no  temperament — only  terpsichore. 


The  Saga  of  Sam  Levenson 


(Continued  from  page   35) 

To  begin  with,  there  was  his  environ- 
ment. He  was  born  in  a  section  of  New 
York  City  where — well,  if  "poverty  breeds 
crime,"  Sam  should  have  grown  up  an 
arch  criminal.  And  then  there  were  his 
parents.  It  wasn't  their  fault,  of  course, 
if  they  were  old-fashioned.  They  just 
happened  to  be  born  in  old-fashioned 
times.  How  could  they  know  about  child 
psychology  and  progressive  education, 
about  mental  hygiene  and  self-expression? 
Why,  they  didn't  even  have  a  book  on 
baby  care.  ("The  only  feeding  problem 
my  parents  knew  about,"  Sam  admits, 
"was  where  to  get  the  food.") 

In  fact,  with  nothing  to  go  on  but  in- 
stinct and  experience,  it's  a  wonder  they 
didn't  blight  Sam's  personality  beyond 
repair.  Once,  the  poor  boy  went  to  his 
father  and  told  him  right  out:  "I'm  not 
happy."  His  father  didn't  even  feel  guilty 
about  it.   "Who's  happy?"  he  shrugged. 

Nor  did  his  father  appreciate  how  much 
a  growing  child  needs  sympathy  and  un- 
derstanding. Sam  can  still  remember  the 
time  he  came  in  crying  because  a  certain 
boy  had  hit  him.  "That's  funny,"  his 
father  observed.  "I  walked  down  the  street 
three  times.  He  didn't  hit  me." 

It  didn't  help,  running  to  his  mother 
for  sympathy,  either.  She  seemed  to  have 
some  old-fashioned  notion  that  a  son 
should  respect  his  father.  And  then,  she 
used  to  have  a  saying — some  proverb  she 
had  picked  up:  "Better  the  children 
should  cry  than  the  parents."  But,  of 
course,  that  was  before  the  days  of  modern 
psychology.  Nowdays,  everyone  knows 
it's  the  parents  who  do  the  weeping. 

After  all  this,  it  was  only  natural  that, 
when  Sam  grew  up   and  had   a  child  of 


his  own,  he  was  determined  not  to  make 
the  same  mistakes  as  his  parents.  And, 
luckily,  he  had  the  advantage  of  the 
latest  scientific  techniques. 

"My  mother  had  eight  children  and  one 
theory,"  he  points  out.  "I  had  one  child 
and  eight  theories."  But,  as  a  school- 
teacher working  in  Child  Guidance,  he 
had  put  these  theories  into  actual  prac- 
tice. So  that,  if  ever  a  child  should  have 
been  brought  up  properly,  it  was  Sam's 
firstborn.  And,  by  the  time  the  second 
child  came,  he  was  quite  an  authority. 
He  knew  exactly  what  to  do. 

In  fact,  he  did  it.  He  tossed  out  the 
books,  put  aside  the  theories,  and  went 
back  to  raising  children  almost  as  his 
parents  had  before  him.  Not  that  Sam 
forgot  everything  he  learned  from  modern 
psychology.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  he  took 
some  of  the  better  items  and  strung 
them  together  into  one  of  his  funniest 
comedy  monologues. 

Sam  also  does  a  comedy  bit  about  the 
early  immigrants  who  helped  build  up 
our  country:  "They  came  here  thinking 
the  streets  were  paved  with  gold.  Then 
they  found  out  that  the  streets  weren't 
even  paved.  Then  they  found  out  that 
they  were  supposed  to  do  the  paving." 
He  is  obviously  thinking  of  his  parents, 
Hyman  and  Rebecca  Levenson.  And  when 
Sam  shakes  his  head,  with  a  kind  of 
helpless  regret,  he  is  thinking  of  his 
father  in  particular:  "He  was  a  good,  un- 
successful tailor.  He  personally  resented 
the  Industrial  Revolution.  As  far  as  my 
father  was  concerned,  he  still  lived  in  the 
Middle  Ages — you  know,  practicing  guilds 
and  crafts.  It  took  him  six  weeks  just  to 
make  a  pair  of  cuffs." 

As  a  parent,  however,  Hyman  Levenson 


would  never  have  passed  by  today's  stan- 
dards. He  was  not  a  companion  to  his 
children.  Sam  still  tells  the  story  about, 
"me  and  my  dog."  It  seems  he  came  home 
one  day  with  a  beautiful  dog — "a  genuine 
mutt,  an  all-American  dog  of  eleven 
different  breeds."  And  it  seems  that  his 
father  didn't  share  Sam's  enthusiasm  for 
it.  Mr.  Levenson  was  "a  professional 
squelcher,"  and  he  could  do  it  with  a 
look.  "Either  the  dog  goes,"  he  decreed, 
"or  you  go."  Sam  hid  the  dog  in  the 
cellar.  His  father,  assuming  that  his  orders 
had  been  carried  out,  had  but  two  words 
to  say  to  his  son:    "You're  staying?" 

Today,  when  the  Levenson  children  look 
back  on  their  youth,  they  see  their  father 
for  what  he  was:  "A  hard,  severe,  re- 
ligious man — he  had  nothing  to  offer  us,"' 
Sam  adds,  "but  inspiration."  Even  in  the 
old  days,  however,  they  loved  him  and 
showed  him  respect  —  thanks  to  their 
mother.  "She  taught  us  that  man  does  not 
live  by  bread  alone.  A  man  is  bigger  than 
his  earning  power.  'Papa  is  coming  home!' 
she  would  say.  Or,  'Papa  is  sitting  down 
to  the  table.'  Yes,  at  one  time,  a  father 
was  a  wonderful  thing  to  be!" 

Sam  rounds  out  the  portrait  by  calling 
his  father  "one  of  the  greatest  patriots 
that  ever  lived."  As  Sam  explains,  "He 
understood  America.  To  him,  it  was  the 
land  of  opportunity,  affording  his  chil- 
dren the  education  he  had  never  had. 
With  seven  sons  and  one  daughter,  he 
seemed  to  spend  his  time  going  from 
graduation  to  graduation — always  in  the 
same  serge  suit.  And  when  my  brother 
Joe  became  a  doctor,  I  remember,  my 
father's  dream  of  America  was  fulfilled." 

Mr.  Levenson  himself,  however,  saw 
little  of  the   country  he  loved   so  deeply. 


cykw/  Easier,  surer  protection  for  your  most  intimate  marriage  problem 


Tested  by  doctors...  pmv$d  in  hospital  clinics 


1.  Antiseptic  (Protective,  germicidal  action) 

Norforms  are  now  safer  and  surer  than  ever!  A  highly  perfected 
new  formula  releases  its  antiseptic  and  germicidal  ingredients 
right  in  the  vaginal  tract.  The  exclusive  new  base  melts  at  body 
temperature,  forming  a  powerful  protective  film  that  permits 
long-lasting  action.  Will  not  harm  delicate  tissues. 

2.  Deodorant  (Protection  from  odor) 

Norforms  were  tested  in  a  hospital  clinic  and  found  to  be  more 
effective  than  anything  it  had  ever  used.  Norforms  are  powerfully 
deodorant — they  eliminate  (rather  than  cover  up)  embarrassing 
odors,  yet  have  no  "medicine"  or  "disinfectant"  odor  themselves. 

3.  Convenient  (So  easy  to  use) 

Norforms  are  small  vaginal  suppositories,  so  easy  and  convenient 
to  use.  Just  insert — no  apparatus,  no  mixing  or  measuring.  They're 
greaseless  and  they  keep  in  any  climate.  Your  druggist  has  them 
in  boxes  of  12  and  24.  Also  available  in  Canada. 


Mail  this  coupon  today 


NORFORmS 

VAGINAL  SUPPOSITORIES 


Tested  by  doctors 
Trusted  by  women 


FREE  informative  Norforms  booklet 

Just  mail  this  coupon  to:  Dept.  RT-69 
Norwich  Pharmacal  Company,  Norwich,  N.  Y. 

Please  send  me  the  new  Norforms  booklet,  in  a 
plain  envelope. 


A  NORWICH  PRODUCT 


Name. 
Street. 
City 


nut) 


.Zone. 


.State. 


65 


"He  was  a  bitter,  timid  man,  living  in  his 
own  narrow  world."  He  taught  his  chil- 
dren to  be  well-behaved,  but  they  were 
"the  good  kids  on  the  block"  and  resented 
as  such.  The  biggest  event  in  Sam's  life 
was  the  happy  day  he  discovered  that 
"through  humor,  I  was  welcome  outside 
the  ghetto  of  my  childhood." 

It  was  education,  however,  that  helped 
open  the  door.  By  helping  his  father  in 
the  tailor  shop,  Sam  managed  to  get  a 
B.A.  degree  at  Brooklyn  College  and  an 
M.A.  at  Columbia  University — "I  need 
that  for  show  business,"  he  points  out, 
"like  the  kids  in  Brooklyn  need  Spanish." 
But,  at  least,  the  degree  got  him  a  job 
teaching — and  at  a  time  when  he  needed 
to  prove  that  he  could  make  a  living.  For 
eight  years,  Sam  had  been  courting  Esther 
Levine,  a  distant  cousin  who  lived  in  the 
same  neighborhood  in  Brooklyn. 

"Her  family  wanted  her  to  marry  a 
shirt  manufacturer  or  something  steady, 
but  then  I  got  my  first  job.  I  was  making 
thirty-eight  dollars  a  week."  Sam  beams 
nostalgically.  "In  those  days,  a  school- 
teacher was  really  something.  I  was  rich 
enough  for  anything." 

And  so,  on  December  27,  1937,  he  mar- 
ried Esther.  For  a  honeymoon,  they  went 
to  Manhattan.  "I  had  a  due  bill  at  the 
Park  Sheraton  Hotel,"  Sam  recalls.  "I 
took  a  quart  of  milk,  a  half-dozen  rolls, 
and  a  can  of  salmon  up  to  the  room 
with  us."  He  laughs  delightedly.  "Room 
service!" 

They  only  intended  to  stay  one  night, 
for  they  had  very  little  money.  "No  one 
came  through  with  any  presents.  A  rich 
kid  like  me — a  schoolteacher — who  needs 
presents?"  And  when  the  presents  finally 
did  come  through  (thirty-six  lamps), 
even  then,  no  one  thought  of  giving  cash. 
It  was  something  of  a  catastrophe,  con- 
sequently, when  Esther  caught  a  cold  and 
they  couldn't  leave  the  hotel.  They  had 
to  stay  on  for  three  expensive  days. 

Sam  can  still  remember  New  Year's  Eve 
at  the  Park  Sheraton.  "I  had  put  our 
food  on  the  window  sill  to  keep  it  cold. 
When  I  opened  the  window  to  get  it,  I 
could  hear  the  sounds  of  a  big  party  on 
the  roof  garden.  And  there  I  was,  making 
salmon  sandwiches." 

But  the  bride  got  better,  the  newly- 
weds  returned  to  Brooklyn,  and  the  hus- 
band went  to  work  to  pay  off  the  due  bill 
from  their  honeymoon.  He  was  twenty  at 
the  time.  Starting  in  as  a  substitute,  Sam's 
teaching  career  was  to  last  fifteen  years — 
the  last  ten  in  Brooklyn's  Samuel  J. 
Tilden   High   School. 

Eventually,  except  for  two  courses  in 
Spanish,  Sam  was  taken  out  of  the  class- 
room and  put  into  Child  Guidance.  Here, 
he  operated  as  a  kind  of  practicing  psy- 
chologist doing  "an  unofficial  sort  of 
social  work."  It  was  during  this  period 
that  he  started  taking  notes  of  things  his 
students  said  and  did.  He  had  no  idea 
what  use  he  would  make  of  them.  As  it 
turned  out,  however,  half  of  his  comedy 
material  is  still  based  upon  them. 

He  never  intended  to  exploit  his  sense 
of  humor.  But  one  day,  at  lunch,  he 
entertained  the  other  teachers  with  take- 
offs  of  some  of  the  excuses  he  had  heard 
the  students  make.  Word  got  around,  and 
soon  Sam  was  asked  to  perform  at  the 
inter-term  luncheon  of  another  school. 
He  did  a  Benchley-like  piece,  "How  To 
Go  Through  a  Fire  Drill."  The  response 
made  him  realize  that  his  type  of  humor 
was  valid  everywhere.  Next,  some  war 
workers  had  a  party  at  a  restaurant  in 
Chinatown  and  offered  Sam  five  dollars 
T  to  entertain.  Then  other  groups  heard 
v     of  him. 

"Things  started  to   snowball,"   Sam  re- 
calls. "It  was  twenty  dollars  here,  twenty- 
five  dollars  there,  then  the  price  jumped 
66 


to  fifty.  Soon,  I  had  more  outside  work 
than  I  had  inside  the  school.  I'd  even  go 
out  of  town  as  far  as  Pittsburgh.  By  1946, 
I  had  to  make  up  my  mind.  It  was  either 
— or.  So  I  went  to  the  head  of  the  school 
board  and  asked  for  a  leave  of  absence. 
'What's  your  reason?'  he  asked.  And  there 
were  only  two  answers  that  were  accept- 
able— death  or  maternity.  'I  want  to  tell 
jokes,'  I  told  him.  He  rolled  with  laughter. 
'How  can  I  put  that  down  on  a  piece  of 
paper?'  he  wanted  to  know.  'Why  don't 
you  just  resign?  You  can  always  be  re- 
instated any  time  within  the  next  five 
years.' " 

Sam  didn't  know  what  to  do.  "I  always 
loved  teaching  and  the  academic  atmo- 
sphere," he  explains.  And — on  the  other 
hand — would  his  type  of  humor  ever 
amount  to  much  in  show  business?  It 
was  homely,  it  was  wholesome.  It  gave  a 
true  picture  of  American  life.  But  how 
would  it  go  in  a  night  club,  for  example? 

Sam  decided  to  take  the  plunge.  In 
1947,  he  got  his  first  big  break — an  engage- 
ment at  the  Kitty  Davis  Night  Club  in 
Miami.  To  Sam,  it  was  a  test  "to  see  if 
this  stuff  could  actually  go."  But  he  was 
being  paid  fourteen  hundred  dollars  a 
week  for  the  experiment.  And,  obviously, 
the  stuff  went.  He  was  kept  on  for  three 
weeks — and  was  brought  back  the  follow- 
ing year  at  two  thousand  a  week. 

"Then  it  was  the  story  of  Broadway!" 
And    Sam    makes    like    a    broken-down 


All  in  Color  for  Autumn 

ARTHUR  GODFREY— on  the  cover! 


MARY  STUART 
of  "Search  For  Tomorrow" 

HAL  MARCH  •  ERNIE  KOVACS 

BUDDY  MERRILL 
of  the  Lawrence  Welle  shows! 

in  the  OCTOBER  issue  of 

TV  RADIO  MIRROR 

at  your  newsstand  September  6 


trumpet  attempting  a  fanfare.  He  had  an 
engagement  at  the  Hotel  Commodore, 
when  Mario  Lewis,  producer  of  CBS-TV's 
Toast  Of  The  Town,  caught  his  act. 

"How  would  you  like  to  be  on  tele- 
vision?" Mr.  Lewis  asked  him. 

"I  haven't  even  been  on  radio  yet," 
Sam  replied. 

"Could  you   do   eight  minutes?" 

"It  takes  me  that  long  just  to  say  hello." 

And  so,  in  spite  of  himself,  Sam  made 
his  first  appearance  on  the  Ed  Sullivan 
show.  It  was  1949 — the  early  days  of 
television — and  Sam  received  eighty-five 
dollars  for  his  eight  minutes.  "I  was 
ashamed  to  ask  for  more,"  he  confesses. 

He  did  a  monologue  called  "Picture  of 
a  Kid  in  a  Snow  Suit."  It  was  a  new  kind 
of  humor  for  television.  And  next  day, 
when  the  fan  mail  ("my  report  cards") 
started  coming  in,  Sam  realized  he  was 
suddenly  famous.  Ed  Sullivan  immediately 
signed  him  up  for  another  date,  the 
start  of  a  long-time  habit.  Ever  since, 
Sam  has  made  from  six  to  eight  appear- 
ances every  year  on  Sullivan's  program — 
only  the  price  is  now  five  thousand  dollars 
a  show. 

Sam  also  started  doing  guest  shots  on 
other  television  programs,  and  became  a 
permanent  panel  member  for  This  Is 
Show  Business  in  1951.  From  1951  to  1952, 


The  Sam  Levenson  Show  also  appeared 
on  CBS-TV.  And  last  summer,  when  Herb 
Shriner  went  on  vacation,  Sam  pinch- 
hit  as  host  of  Two  For  The  Money.  This 
summer,  he  took  over  as  regular  host.  So 
it  would  seem  as  though  Sam  has  defi- 
nitely proven  that  there's  a  place  for 
"his    stuff"    in   show   business. 

Right  now,  Sam  is  on  top  of  the  world. 
He  and  Esther  have  come  a  long  way 
from  their  due-bill  days  at  the  Park 
Sheraton.  They  own  a  three-story  brown- 
stone  that's  "built  like  an  old  castle  or 
fortress,  with  walls  this  thick."  Since 
Sam  demonstrates  with  his  hands,  one 
can  only  assume  that  the  walls  are  thicker 
than  he.  The  family  occupies  the  first  two 
floors,  and  Sam's  office  is  on  the  third. 
Here  he  keeps  his  files.  They  are  not  only 
filled  with  material  for  future  monologues, 
but  with  sociological  notes  for  a  book  he 
hopes  to  write  one  day  on  the  American 
way  of  life. 

But,  although  Sam  has  found  the 
success  that  eluded  his  father,  although 
he  has  escaped  the  narrow  ghetto  of 
his  childhood,  he  is  aware  that  many 
things  are  missing  from  his  world — things 
that  were  there  in  the  world  of  his  father. 
Whatever  became  of  love,  for  instance? 
Love  in  the  universal  sense,  where  you 
know — as  Sam  does — that:  "People  are 
good.  They  make  errors,  yes,  but  every- 
one means  well." 

Where  is  emotion?  What  happened  to 
sentiment?  "No  one  gets  'huggie'  any 
more,"  Sam  complains,  blaming  it  on  the 
intellectuals.  "But  it's  time  for  them  to 
be  corny  again.  People  want  to  be  moved. 
They're  tired  of  slogans.  They  want  some- 
thing real."  And  whatever  became  of 
grace?  Sam  can  remember  when  people 
came  to  his  father's  house.  They  used  to 
make  speeches.  "From  the  bottom  of  my 
heart,  Morris,"  one  man  used  to  say.  "It 
was  flowery,  emotional,"  Sam  admits, 
"but  it  tore  the  house  down." 

Most  of  all,  Sam  finds  himself  missing 
wisdom.  More  and  more,  he  keeps  re- 
turning to  the  world  of  his  parents  and 
the  old  proverbs  they  lived  by — "the 
honest  answers  that  have  served  mankind 
before."  His  father  may  not  have  under- 
stood a  modern  psychologist's  preoccupa- 
tion with  personality,  but  he  knew  how  to 
teach  his  own  children  character.  And 
that  saying  of  his  mother's — "Better  the 
children  should  cry  than  the  parents." 

"You  appreciate  the  real  significance  of 
this,"  Sam  says,  "if  you're  ever  in  a 
courtroom  and  see  the  parents — both  cry- 
ing their  eyes  out — while  their  teenager 
just  stands  there  without  batting  an  eye." 

Sam  admits  that  he  and  Esther  tried  to 
raise  Conrad,  now  thirteen  and  a  half, 
by  the  book.  "We  only  gave  him  all  kinds 
of  problems.  He  didn't  have  them.  We  had 
them.  We  kept  trying  to  feed  him  food, 
for  example,  when  he  didn't  want  it.  We'd 
even  wake  him  up  in  the  middle  of  the 
night  for  it.  'But  he'll  die  if  he's  not 
nourished,'  we  were  told. 

"We  wised  up  for  our  second  child," 
Sam  continues.  Emily  Sue,  now  three  and 
a  half,  eats  only  when  she's  hungry — and 
she's  the  picture  of  health. 

Somewhere  in-between  the  births  of 
his  two  children,  Sam  had  gone  back  to 
his  parents'  unscientific  methods  in  child- 
raising.  And  he  sounds  like  an  echo  of  his 
father  when  he  comes  out  with  the  most 
revolutionary  statement  of  the  twentieth 
century:  "I  don't  want  to  be  a  pal  to  my 
son.  I  want  to  be  a  father." 

To  his  surprise,  he  found  that,  when 
he  laid  down  the  law — when  he  said  "This 
is  it,  son" — his  child  liked  it.  Sam  first 
realized  this,  the  time  he  asked  Conrad  to 
go  with  him  to  visit  Grandpa.  "I  don't 
want  to,"  he  said.    "I'm  not  happy  there." 

Sam  hit  the  ceiling.  Here  was  his  own 


son,  a  product  of  progressive  education, 
operating  on  the  prescribed  psychological 
principles.  He  had  freedom  of  choice, 
freedom  of  expression — and  his  final  de- 
cisions were  to  be  based  on  what  made 
him  happy.  As  a  parent,  it  was  up  to  Sam 
to  understand  this. 

"He  couldn't  appreciate  that  people 
might  have  an  obligation  to  the  sick  and 
old — that  it's  even  in  the  Ten  Command- 
ments, to  honor  thy  father  and  mother." 
Sam  shakes  his  head.  "Well,  I  got  tired 
being  so  understanding,  so  willing  to  con- 
done. After  all,  I've  got  emotions,  too. 
And  there  are  some  things  a  kid  him- 
self has  to  face  up  to." 

As  it  turned  out,  Conrad  yielded  to 
superior  force  and  accompanied  his  father. 
"When  we  got  there,"  Sam  recalls,  "his 
grandpa  was  so  glad  to  see  him  and  put 
his  arms  around  him — it  suddenly  dawned 
on  the  kid.  He  knew  why  I  had  made  him 
come,  and  why  it  was  important  for  him 
to  see  his  grandfather.  Then  he  stopped 
moping  and  became  very  happy." 

According  to  Sam,  "Even  the  psychia- 
trists are  now  going  back  on  what  they 
once  said  about  freedom  of  expression. 
The  prevalence  of  juvenile  delinquency 
has  emphasized  the  need  for  authority  in 
the  world — and  some  sense  of  values. 
Freedom  of  choice,"  he  adds,  "is  not 
authority,  and  happiness  is  the  weakest 
value  of  all.  What's  more,  people  must 
realize  that  teenagers  are  immature. 
They're  not  able  to  make  real  decisions. 
To  allow  them  a  choice  is  only  to  pro- 
long their  immaturity." 

And  what's  the  best  way  for  a  parent 
to   exercise   authority? 

"Well,  you  have  to  love  your  child 
enough  to  say  no.  It  isn't  hard,"  Sam  in- 
sists. In  fact,  in  one  of  his  monologues,  he 
says  to  the  audience:  "Here,  I'll  show 
you."  Then  he  demonstrates  exactly  how 
one  opens  the  mouth  and  manipulates  the 
tongue  to  utter  the  difficult  word.  On  a 
more  serious  note,  however,  he  begs 
parents  to  have  "more  faith  in  a  child's 
elasticity."  A  no  won't  kill  him. 

As  for  combating  juvenile  delinquency, 
Sam  believes  that  his  mother  had  the 
best  method.  "She  raised  us  by  ear,"  he 
says,  and  demonstrates  by  pulling  his 
own  ear.  "She  knew  enough  to  drag  us 
in  off  the  streets  by  ten  o'clock — away 
from  the  scene  where  crime  breeds.  And, 
in  the  daytime,  either  you  went  to  school 
— or  you  went  to  work." 

About  this  last  point,  Sam  grows  ada- 
mant. "Who  said  a  kid,  at  sixteen,  is  too 
young  to  go  to  work  but  not  too  young 
to  drive  a  car  at  eighty  miles  an  hour?" 
Now  Sam  is  not  advocating  sweatshop 
labor.  He  is  advocating  that:  "Kids  who 
get  into  trouble  should  be  put  to  work." 
And  what's  wrong,  he  wants  to  know, 
with  youngsters  taking  part-time  jobs? 

"Progressive  education  with  its  self- 
expression,"  says  Sam,  "teaches  the  child 
to  be  an  individual,  and  then  it  asks  him 
to  adjust  to  the  group.  But  you  can't  be 
an  individual  and  also  be  like  everyone 
else.  Nowdays,  kids  don't  have  the  courage 
to  be  different,  and  their  parents  are 
afraid — as  though  there's  something 
wrong  with  them  if  their  children  aren't 
like  all  the  other  kids  in  the  neighborhood. 

"Well,  my  kid  doesn't  like  baseball," 
Sam  says,  and  he  says  it  defiantly.  "He 
wants  to  be  a  scientist.  And  I'm  willing  to 
back  him  up." 

And  so  Conrad  Levenson,  an  indepen- 
dent youngster,  will  go  his  own  way — 
as  each  new  generation  must.  And  one  day 
— after  all  his  search  for  knowledge,  and 
all  the  world's  scientific  progress — maybe 
he,  too,  will  return  to  the  eternal  truths 
learned  in  his  own  home  as  a  child.  He 
couldn't  find  a  better  teacher  than  his 
father — nor   a   more   honest  man. 


OPPORTUNITIES 

for  EVERYBODY 

Publisher's  Classified   Department  (Trademark) 


For  classified  advertising  rates,  write  ta  William  ft.  Stewart,  9  South  Clinton  Street,  Chicago  6  (Women-September)  6 


FEMALE  HELP  WANTED 

OF  INTEREST  TO  WOMEN 

NEW  HOME  CLUB  Plan  Sensation  1  Style  Shows— Chil- 
dren's, Adults'  apparel  easily  earns  $20.00-40.00  evenings. 
Prizes,  Gifts,  fun!  Experience  unnecessary.  Complete  outfit 
furnished.  Beeline  Fashions,  Bensenville  607,  Illinois. 
BEAUTY  DEMONSTRATORS— TO  $5  hour  demonstrating 
Famous  Hollywood  Cosmetics,  your  neighborhood.  For  free 
samples,  details  write  Studio  Girl,  Glendale,  Calif.,  Dept.1669C. 
IF  YOU  WANT  to  earn  money  fast,  I'll  send  you  Free  Sample 
Stocking  of  newest  Stretch  DuPont  Nylons  to  sell  at  only  $1 
a  pair.  American  Mills,  Dept.  501,  Indianapolis  7,  Ind. 
J2.00  HOURLY  POSSIBLE  doing  light  assembly  work  at 
home.   Experience  unnecessary.  Crown   Industries,  8507-B 
West  Third,  Los  Angeles  48,  Calif. 

FREE— BIG  NEW  Wholesale  Catalog!  Up  to  50%  saving  for 
you,  family,  friends  on  nationally-known  gifts,  jewelry,  toys, 
appliances.  Christmas  cards,  etc.  Also  make  money  selling 
part  time  I  Write:  Evergreen  Studios,  Box  846-P,  Chicago  42,  III. 
WHOLESALE  CATALOG!  30-80%  Discounts  I  Appliances, 
Musical  Instruments,  Typewriters,  Tools,  Watches,  Jewelry, 
Cameras,  Housewares,  etc.  Consolidated  Distributors,  7-28 
Henry,  Paterson  15,  New  Jersey. 

$350  FOR  YOUR  child's  photo,  all  ages,  if  used  for  advertising. 
May  also  qualify  for  Free  Camera.  Send  photo  for  approval. 
Print  child's-mother's,  name-address  on  back.  Returned  two 
weeks.  Advertisers,  6000- YW  Sunset,  Los  Angeles  28. 
COMPLETE  YOUR  HIGH  School  at  home  in  spare  time 

HOME  WORKERS.  MAKE  hand-made  moccasins.  Good  pay. 
Experience  unnecessary.  California  Handicrafts,  Los  Angeles 
46,  California. 

with  59-year-old  school.  Texts  furnished.  No  classes.  Diploma. 
Information  booklet  free.  American  School,  Dept.  X674, 
Drexel  at  58th,  Chicago  37,  Illinois. 

FASCINATING  WORK  AT  Homel  No  selling!  We  pay  you! 
Truart,  Box  710,  Pasadena,  Calif. 

HOMEWORKERS  WANTED  PAINTING  novelties.  No  sell- 
ing. N.  Roland,  R.D.  1,  Vincentown,  N.J. 
$30.00  WEEKLY  MAKING  Roses.  Look,  Smell  real.  Studio 
Company,  Greenville  12,  Pa. 

$350  FOR  YOUR  Child's  picture  (all  ages).  Thousands  paid 
by  advertisers.  Send  one  small  picture.  Returned  with  judges' 
report.  Print  child's  and  parents'  name  on  back.  Spotlight, 
1611  No.  La  Brea,  Hollywood,  Calif. 

MAKE  SPARE  TIME  money  preparing  and  mailing  sales 
literature.  Adams  Surveys,  3513C  Sunset  Blvd.,  Los  Angeles, 
26,  California. 

HOME  SEWING.  READY-Cut  Rap-Around.  Profitable.  Free 
instructions.  Hollywood  Manufacturing,  Hollywood  46,  Calif. 

MONEY  MAKING  OPPORTUNITIES 

DRESSES  24c;  SHOES  39c;  Men's  suits  $4.95;  trousers 
$1.20.  Better  used  clothing.  Free  Catalog.  Transworld,  164-A 
Christopher,  Brooklyn  12,  N.  Y.- 

STUFFING— MAILING  ENVELOPES.  Our  instructions  tell 
how.  Dept.  G-9,  Education  Publishers,  4043  St.  Clair,  Cleve- 
land 3,  Ohio. 

$200.  MONTHLY  POSSIBLE,  Sewing  Babywear!  No  house 
selling  I  Send  stamped,  addressed  envelope.  Babywear,  War- 
saw 1,  Indiana. 

GUARANTEED    HOMEWORK!    IMMEDIATE    Commis- 
sions!  Everything   Furnished!   Hirsch,   1301-12   Hoe  Ave., 
New  York  City  59. 

PART  TIME— WOMEN  needed  by  several  National  Com- 
panies. Our  instructions  tell  how.  Dunbar,  Dept.  G-9,  4130 
Mark  Terrace,  Cleveland,  Ohio. 

$40.00  WEEKLY  POSSIBLE  mailing  circulars  for  advertisers. 
Complete     instructions — 25c.     Siwaslian.    4317-F    Gleane, 
Elmhurst  73,  N.  Y. 

MAKE  MONEY  WRITING  Your  Story  for  Television.  Dart- 
Duncan,  5540  Hollywood  Blvd.,  Hollywood  28,  Calif. 
MAKE  MONEY  CLIPPING  Newspaper  Items  for  Publish- 
ers! Write,  Newscraft,  PW-983-E.  Main,  Columbus  5,  Ohio. 

SELL  NAMES,  INCLUDING  births.  Instructions  $1.00  re- 
funded first  list.  Armengol  Co.,  Drawer  300,  Laredo  1,  Texas. 
LADIES;  PROFITABLE  HOMEWORK  preparing  mailing 
postcards.  Alfred  Hasemann,  Beecher,  Illinois. 

PROFITABLE  HOME  BUSINESS.  Make  Fast-Selling  che- 
nile  monkey  trees.  Literature  free.  Velva,  Bohemia  32,  N.  Y. 
NATIONAL  FIRM  NEEDS  Homeworkers!  No  Selling! 
Guaranteed  Pay.  Genmerco,  Box  142-W,  Dorchester  24,  Mass. 
SEW  OUR  READY  cut  aprons  at  home,  spare  time.  Easy, 
Profitable.  Hanky  Aprons,  Ft.  Smith  3,  Ark. 

EXTRA  MONEY  PREPARING  Mailing  Postcards,  Gul,  1815 
S.  Meyers,  Lombard,  Illinois. 

MAKE  YOUR  TYPEWRITER   Earn   Money.  Send  $1.00. 
Hughes,  7004  Diversey,  Chicago  35. 

AGENTS  WANTED 

"HOMEWORK"  SEWING,  CLIPPING  Newspaper  items. 
Mailing.  Creation's,  386,  Austin,  Texas. 

RUN  SPARE-TIME  Greeting  Card  and  Gift  Shop  at  home. 
Show  friends  samples  of  our  new  1956  Christmas  and  All- 
Occasion  Greeting  Cards  and  Gifts.  Take  their  orders  and 
earn  to  100%  profit.  No  experience  necessary.  Costs  nothing 
to  try.  Write  today  for  samples  on  approval.  Regal  Greetings, 
Dept.  96,  Ferndale,  Michigan. 

EDUCATIONAL  OPPORTUNITIES 

DENTAL  NURSING.  PREPARE  at  home  for  big  pay  career. 
Chairside  duties,  reception,  laboratory,  Personality  Develop- 
ment. Free  Book.  Wayne  School,  Lab.  BA-15,  2521  Sheffield, 
Chicago  14. 

60%  PROFIT  COSMETICS.  $25  Day  Up.  Hire  others.  Sam- 
ples, details.  Studio  Girl  Hollywood,  Glendale,  Calif.,  Dept. 
1669H. 

"HOW  TO  MAKE  Money  With  Simple  Cartoons"— A  book 
everyone  who  likes  to  draw  should  have.  It  is  free;  no  obliga- 
tion. Simply  address  Cartoonists'  Exchange,  Dept.  689,  Pleas- 

NEW BATHROOM  DEODORIZER.  Hangs  on  wall.  Banishes 
odors  bathroom,  kitchen.  Lightning  seller.  Samples  sent  on 
trial.  Kristee  Co.,  Dept.  143,  Akron  8,  Ohio. 

ant  Hill,  Ohio. 

HIGH  SCHOOL  DIPLOMA  at  home.  Licensed  teachers. 
Approved  materials.  Southern  States  Academy,  Box  144W 
Station  E,  Atlanta,  Georgia. 

MALE  &  FEMALE  HELP  WANTED 

EARN  EXTRA  MONEY  selling  Advertising  Book  Matches. 

SALESMEN  WANTED 

Free  sample  kit  furnished.  Matchcorp,  Dept.  WP-29  Chicago 
32   Illinois. 

HOME  SEWERS  WANTED 

CHRISTMAS  CARDS!  MAKE  Big  Money!  Sell  Name  Im 
printed  genuine  Parchment  "Personals"  only  3c  each!  600 
other  fast   selling   gifts,    greetings.    Samples   on   approval. 
Arrow,  513GG  4th  Ave.  So.,  Minneapolis,  Minn. 

NURSING  SCHOOLS 

SEW  BABY  SHOES  at  home.  No  canvassing.  $40.00  weekly 
possible.  Write:  Tiny-Tot,  Gallipolis  19,  Ohio. 

DO-IT-YOURSELF 

EASILY  MAKE  $65  Week  as  Practical  Nurse.  Learn  quickly 

LEARN  ART  METALCRAFT  and  jewelry  making.  Complete, 
inexpensive,  home  training  course  now  available  Special  tools 

at  homel  No  high  school  necessary,  no  age  limit.  Write  today 
for  free  booklet,  lessons.  Post  Graduate  School  of  Nursing, 
21E96  Auditorium  Bldg.,  Chicago. 

Training  Service,  Dept.  L-72,  Portland  13,  Oregon. 

LOANS  BY  MAIL 

FOREIGN  &  U.S.A.  JOB  LISTINGS 

BORROW  $50  to  $500.  Employed  men  and  women  over  25. 

HIGH  PAYING  JOBS.  All  types.  Foreign,  U.S.  Chance  to 
travel.  Fare  paid.  Application  forms.  For  information  Write 
Section  95B,  National,  1020  Broad,  Newark,  N.  J. 

WORK  AT  HOME 

eligible.  Confidential — no  co-signers — no  inquiries  of  employ- 
ers or  friends.  Repay  in  monthly  payments  to  fit  your  income. 
Supervised  by  State  of  Nebraska.  Loan  application  sent  free 
in  plain  envelope.  Give  occupation.  American  Loan  Plan, 
City  National  Bldg.,  Dept.  WD-9,  Omaha,  Nebraska. 

$5  00   DAILY,    MAKING    scented    Orchids.    Free   Sample 
Boycan,  Sharon  7,  Penna. 

PERSONAL 

INSTRUCTION 

FINISH  HIGH  SCHOOL  at  home,  spare  time.  No  classes. 
Diploma  awarded.  Write  for  Free  catalog  Wayne  School, 
Catalog  HCH-36,  2527  Sheffield,  Chicago  14. 


BORROWING  BY  MAIL.  Loans  $100  to  $600  to  employed 
men  and  women.  Easy,  quick.  Completely  confidential.  No 
endorsers.  Repay  in  convenient  monthly  payments.  Details 
free  in  plain  envelope.  Give  occupation  State  Finance  Co., 
323  Securities  Bldg.,  Dept.  B-69,  Omaha  2,  Nebraska. 


POEMS  WANTED    C 

■  ^^FBmII      lltf        For   musical    setting    .    .    .    Send  ^^^B 

■  ^^^^■WM^^        your    Poems     today     for    FREE  ■-,*' 
EXAMINATION:     Any     subject.     Immediate    consideration. 

CROWN  MUSIC  CO.,  1476-L  Broadway,  New  York  36,  N.Y. 


EW  BABY  SHOES 

AT    HOME    ....   No   Canvassing.    $40 
Weekly   possible. 
Write  TINY-TOT  CO..  Gallipolis  32,  Ohio 


New  Way  to  Remove  Dandruff 

New  concentrated  DANDRICIDE  RINSE  releases  anti-dandruff 
action  no  ordinary  tonic  or  shampoo  can  duplicate 


Concentrated  to  last   longer!  Easy  to  use! 

Because  it's  concentrated,  you  get  12  Dandricide 

rinses  in  a  $1.00  bottle.  Just  mix  with  water  as 

directed,  rinse  and  that's  all!   Get  Dandricide  at 

!^*,^?J2?n.f£?  -TJL!  ?hr_*a??™*  i?     drug  and  department  stores,   beauty   and   barber 

shops. 


WHY  HAVE  DANDRUFF?  Tonight,  you  can 
have  a  cleaner  scalp,  healthier  looking  hair, 
gleaming  with  a  soft  clean   sheen! 


removed   instantly   with  a  unique  anti-dandruff, 
scalp  conditioning  rinse   action! 

Old  fashioned  dandruff  "tonics"  or  shampoos 
may  merely  dissolve  dandruff  scales,  only  to  have 
them  return  in  a  few  days.  New  Dandricide  rinses 
loose  dandruff  OUT  . . .  really  cleans  the  scalp 
...  fights  the  fast  return  of  unsightly,  itchy  dan- 
druff as  no  tonic  or  shampoo  can! 


67 


68 


All  times  listed  are  Eastern  Daylight 
Time.  These  are  network  programs.  Local 
stations    may    substitute    or    re-schedule. 


nside  Radio 

NOTE:  Presidential  conventions  will  take  precedence  over  all 
programs — August  13-17,  Democratic ;  August  20-24,  Republican. 


Monday  through  Friday 


NBC 
Morning    Programs 


MBS 


ABC 


CBS 


8:30 

Local  Program 

8:45 

9:00 

Robert  Hurleigh 

Breakfast  Club 

News  Of  America 

9:15 

Easy  Does  It 

9:30 

Mutual  Magazine 

10:00 

Cecil  Brown 

My  True  Story 

Arthur  Godfrey  Time, 

10:15 

Footnotes  To 
Medical  History 

with  Peter  Lind 
Hayes 

10:30 

Five-Star  News 

When  A  Girl  Marries 

10:45 

10:35  Johnny  Olsen 

Whispering  Streets 

11:00 

News 

Grand  Central 

Arthur  Godfrey 

1 1 :05  Story  Time 

Station 

(con.),  with  Peter 

11:15 

Mr.  Peepers 

Jack  Paar  Show 

Lind  Hayes 

11:30 

Queen  For  A  Day 

11:35  Your  Happy 

This  Is  Kathy 
Godfrey 

11:45 

Holiday 

Howard  Miller  Show 

Afte 

12:00 

12:15 
12:30 
12:45 

rnoon    Progr 

a  ins 

Noon  News 

12:10  Ed  Ladd's 
Music  Box 

Valentino 
Frank  Farrell 

Wendy  Warren  & 

The  News 
Backstage  Wife 
Helen  Trent 
Our  Gal  Sunday 

1:00 
1:15 
1:30 
1:45 

News,  Cedric  Foster 
Music 

Luncheon  With 
Lopez 

Paul  Harvey,  News 
Ted  Malone 

Road  Of  Life 
Aunt  Jenny 
Young  Dr.  Malone 
The  Guiding  Light 

2:00 

2:15 
2:30 
2:45 

News,  Sam  Hayes 
2:05  Mutual  Matinee 

Military  Bands 

Martin  Block 

News,  Bill  Downs 
2:05  Right  To  Happi- 
ness 
Second  Mrs.  Burton 
This  Is  Nora  Drake 
Pepper  Young's 
Family 

3:00 

3:15 
3:30 
3:45 

Doctor's  Wife 

News 

3:05  Matinee  With 

Bruce   Elliot 
Bandstand,  U.S.A. 

Martin  Block  (con.) 

Linkletter's  House 
Party 

Sunshine  Sue 

4:00 
4:15 
4:30 
4:45 

Woman  In  My  House 

News 

4:05  Matinee  With 
Dick  Willard 

Treasury  Bandstand 

5:00 
5:15 
5:30 

5:45 

Fred  Waring 
Song  Fest 
It's  New 

5:35Today's  Business 
Sportarama 
5:55  George  Gallup 

Bob  And  Ray 

Les  Paul  &  Mary  Ford 
5:50  Wismer,  Sports 
5:55  Cecil  Brown 

Monday 

Evening    P 

rograms 

6:30  News 
6:35  Mel  Allen 

6:0 
6:3 
6:4 

3 
) 
1 

Three  Star  Extra 

L 

>cal  Program 

Jackson  &  The  News 
Lowell  Thomas 

7:00 

7:15 

7:30 
7:45 

Alex  Dreier,  Man 
On  The  Go 

News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 

Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 

Dinner  Date  '  • 

Gabriel  Heatter 
What's  Your  Opin- 
ion? 

Ed  Morgan,  News 

Quincy  Howe 

Mike  Malloy, 
Private  Eye 
7:55  News 

News  Analysis, 

LeSeuer 
7:05  Amos  'n'  Andy 
7:25  Dr.  Baxter 
Bing  Crosby 
Edward  R.  Murrow 

8.-00 
8:15 

8:30 
8:45 

Henry  Taylor 

Boston  Pops 

Concert 

True  Detective 
Mysteries 

John  Steele, 
Adventurer 

American  Music 

Hall 
8:25  News 
Voice  Of  Firestone 

Arthur  Godfrey's 
Talent  Scouts 

9:00 

9:15 

9:30 
9:45 

Telephone  Hour 
Contrasts  In  Music 

News,   Lyle  Van 
9:05  Bob  And  Ray 
Behind  The  Iron 

Curtain 
Reporters'  Roundup 

News 

9:05  American  Music 
Hall 

9:25    News 

Best  Bands  In 

The  Land 
9:55  News 

Personality 

News,  Collingwood 
9:05  My  Son,  Jeep 
Johnny  Dollar 

Capitol  Cloakroom 

9:55  News,  Trout 

10:0 

10:1 
10:3 

3 

5 

D 

Pauline   Frederick 
10:05  Chet  Huntley 
Dance  Band 
Parade  Of  Bands 

to 

lusic  From 
Studio  X 

Imagination,  with 

Milton  Cross 
10:25  News 
Imagination  (con.) 

The  World  Tonight 
10:05  Orchestra 

Tuesday 


6:00 
6:30 
6:45 


7:00 

7:15 

7:30 
7:45 


8:00 
8:15 
8:30 


9:00 

9:15 
9:30 


10:00 


10:15 
10:30 


NBC 


Three  Star  Extra 


Evening    Programs 

ABC 


Alex   Dreier, 
Man  On  The  Go 


News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


X  Minus  One 

News 

8:35  Biographies  in 
Sound 


Biographies  in 
In  Sound 

Ted  Heath,  Music 


Pauline  Frederick 
10:05  Chet  Huntley 
Dance  Band 
Ken  Nordine 


MBS 
Local    Program 


Fulton   Lewis,  Jr. 

Dinner   Date 

Gabriel   Heatter 
Eddie  Fisher 


Treasury  Agent 
Squad  Room 


News,  Lyle  Van 
9:05  Bob  And  Ray 
Dateline  Defense 
Army  Hour 


Music  From 
Studio  X 


; 


News 

6:35  Mel  Allen 


Ed  Morgan,  News 

Quincy  Howe 

Sherlock  Holmes 
7:55  News 


American  Music  Hall 
8:25  News 
American  Music  Hall 


American  Music  Hall 

9:25  News 
Best  Bands  Of 
The  Land 


Imagination,  with 

Milton  Cross 
10:25  News 
Imagination  (con.) 


CBS 
Jackson  &  The  News 

Lowell  Thomas 


News  Analysis, 

LeSeuer 
7:05  Amos  'n'  Andy 
7:25  Dr.  Baxter 
Bing  Crosby 
Edward  R.  Murrow 


Suspense 


" 


News,  Herman 
9:05  My  Son,  Jeep 
Johnny  Dollar 
Campaign   '56 
9:55   News 


The  World  Tonight 
10:05  Dance  Music 


Wednesday 

Even! 

rig    Programs 

6:00 

Local    Program 

Jackson  &  The  News 

6:30 

News 

6:45 

Three  Star  Extra 

6:35  Mel  Allen 

Lowell  Thomas 

7:00 

Alex  Dreier, 

Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 

Ed  Morgan  News 

News,  LeSeuer 

7:15 

Man  On  The  Go 

Dinner  Date 

Quincy  Howe 

7:05  Amos  'n'  Andy 
7:25  Dr.  Baxter 

7:30 

News  Of  The  World 

Gabriel    Heatter 

Masters  Of  Mystery 

Bing  Crosby 

7:45 

One  Man's  Family 

What's  Your  Opin- 
ion? 

7:55  News 

Edward   R.   Murrow 

8:00 

Truth  Or 

Gang  Busters 

American  Music  Hall 

8:15 

Conseauences 

8:25  News 

8:30 

Recollections  At  30 

Crime  Files  of 

American  Music  Hall 

FBI  In  Peace  And 

8:55  News 

Flamond 

War 

9:00 

You  Bet  Your  Life 

News,  Lyle  Van 

American  Music  Hall 

News,  Collingwood 

— Groucho  Marx 

9:05  Bob  and  Ray 

9:05  My  Son,  Jeep 

9:15 

Airmen  Of  Note 

9:25  News 

Johnny  Dollar 

9:30 

Sound  Flight 

Family  Theater 

Best   Bands 

Washington  &  The 

9:45 

Of  The  Land 

World 
9:55  News 

10:00 

Pauline  Frederick 

Music  From 

Imagination,  with 

The  World  Tonight 

10:05  Chet  Huntley 

Studio  X 

Milton  Cross 

10:05  Music 

10:15 

This  Is  Moscow 

10:25  News 

10:30 

Imagination  (con.) 

Thursday 

Evening 

Programs 

News 

6:35  Mel  Allen 

6:0 
6:3 
6:4 

0 

c 

5 

Three  Star  Extra 

Loc 

al  Program 

Jackson  &  The  News 
Lowell  Thomas 

7:00 
7:15 

7:30 
7:45 

Alex  Dreier, 
Man  On  The  Go 

News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 

Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
Dinner  Date 

Gabriel  Heatter 
Eddie  Fisher 

Ed  Morgan,  News 
Quincy  Howe 

Mystery  Classic 
7:55  News 

News  Analysis, 

LeSeuer 
7:05  Amos  V  Andy 
7:25  Dr.  Baxter 
Bing  Crosby 
Edward  R.  Murrow 

8:00 
8:15 
8:30 

People  Are  Funny 
Conversation 

Official  Detective 
Crime  Fighter 

American  Music  Hall 
8:25  News 
American  Music  Hall 

21st  Precinct 

9:00 

9:15 
9:30 
9:45 

News 

Stars  In  Action 

News,  Lyle  Van 
9:05  Bob  And  Ray 

State  Of  The  Nation 

American  Music  Hall 

9:25  News 
Best  Bands  Of 
The  Land 

News,  Herman 
9:05  My  Son,  Jeep 
Johnny  Dollar 
The  Leading 
Question 
9:55  News 

10:0 
10:1 
10:3 

0 
5 
0 

Pauline  Frederick 
10:05  Chet  Huntley 
Carling  Conserva- 
tion Club 
Jane    Pickens    Show 

Music  From 
Studio  X 

Imagination,  with 
Milton  Cross 

10:25  News 
Imagination  (con.) 

The  World  Tonight 
10:05  Dance  Music 

Friday 


Evening    Programs 


6:00 

Local  Program 

Jackson  &  The  News 

6:3 

News 

6:45 

Three  Star  Extra 

6:35  Mel  Allen 

Lowell  Thomas 

7:00 

Alex  Dreier, 
Man  On  The  Go 

Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 

Ed  Morgan,  News 

News  Analysis, 
LeSeuer 

7:15 

Dinner  Date 

Quincy  Howe 

7:05  Amos  V  Andy 
7:25  Dr.  Baxter 

7:30 

News  Of  The  World 

Gabriel  Heatter 

Police  Blotter 

Bing  Crosby 

7:45 

One   Man's   Family 

What's  Your  Opin- 
ion? 

7:55  News 

Edward    R.    Murrow 

3:00 

National   Radio   Fan 

Counter-Spy 

American  Music  Hall 

8:15 

Club 

8:25  News 

8:30 

City  Editor 

American  Music  Hall 

CBS  Radio  Workshop 

9:00 

NBC   Job   Clinic 

News,  Lyle  Van 

American  Music  Hall 

News.  Collingwood 

9:05  Radio  Fan  Club 

9:05  Bob  and  Ray 

9:05  My  Son,  Jeep 

9:15 

(con.) 

American  Travel 
Guide 

9:25  News 

Johnny  Dollar 

9:30 

Disc  Date 

Best  Bands  Of 

So  They  Say 

9:45 

The  Land 

9:55   News 

10:00 

Cavalcade  Of  Sports 

Music  From  Studio  X 

Imagination,  with 
Milton  Cross 

The  World  Tonight 
10:05  Dance  Music 

10:15 

10:25  Sports  Digest 

Virgil  Pinkiey 

10:25  News 

10:30 

Music 

Imagination  (con.) 

nside  Radio 


Saturday 


NBC 


Morning    Programs 


MBS 


ABC 


CBS 


8:30 

Local  Program 

News 

8:45 

8:55  News 

9:00 

No  School  Today 

News  Of  America 

9:15 

Monitor 

Farm  News 

9:30 

9:45 

Garden  Gate 

10:00 

Monitor 

No  School 

News,  Jackson 

10:15 

Today  (con.) 

10:05  Galen  Drake 

10:30 

News 

All  League 

Show 

10:45 

10:35  Good  News 

Clubhouse 

11:00 

Monitor 

News 

News 

News,  Calmer 

11:05  For  Parents 

11:05  Chautauqua 

11:05  Robert  0. 

11:15 

Only 

Student  Symphony 

Lewis  Show 

11:30 

Musical    Wheel     Of 
Chance 

Platterbrains 

11:45 

11:55  Les  Paul  & 
Mary  Ford 

Afte 

12:00 

12:15 
12:30 
12:45 

rnoon    Progr 

National  Farm  & 
Home   Hour 

Monitor 

ams 

News 

12:05  Magic  of 
Music 

News 

12:05  World  Tourist 
101  Ranch  Boys 
American  Farmer 

News,  Jackson 
12:05  Romance 

Gunsmoke 

12:55  Weather  Along 
The  Highways 

1:00 
1:15 

1:30 

1:45 

Monitor 

Fifth    Army    Band 
1:25  Men's  Corner 

News 

1:05  Navy  Hour 

Shake  The  Maracas 

News,  Jackson 
1:05  City  Hospital 

Man  About 

The  House 
Adventures  in 

Science 

2:00 

2:15 
2:30 

Monitor 

Lucky  Pierre 

News 

2:05  Festival- 
Ballet 
Sports 
2:35  Ballet  (con.) 

News,  Townsend 
2:05  String 
Serenade 

3:00 
3:15 

3:30 

Monitor 

Country  Jamboree 
Sport  Parade 

News 

3:05  Festival- 
Light  Opera 
Sports 
3:35  Opera  (con.) 

News,  Bancroft 
3:05  Richard  Hayes 

Show 
Treasury  Show 

4:00 
4:15 

4:30 
4:45 

Monitor 

Standby  Sports,  with 
Harry  Wismer 

News 

4:05  Chautauqua 
Symphony 

News,  Cochran 
4:05  Treasury  Show 

(con.) 
Larry  Faith  Orch. 

5:00 

5:15 
5:30 
5:45 

Monitor 

Standby  Sports  with 
Harry  Wismer 
(con.) 

5:55  Cecil  Brown 

News 

5:05  Pop  Concert 

Dinner  At  The 
Green  Room 

News,  Cochran 

Turf  Events 

Make  Way  for  Youth 

*8/25  Saratoga  Handicaps;  9/1  The  Saratoga  Hopeful 


Evening    Programs 


6:00 
6:15 
6:30 
6:45 

Monitor 

John  T.  Flynn 

The  Mariners' 

Album 
Report  From 

Washington 
Dinner  Date 

News 

6:05  Pan-American 
Union 

Sports  Kaleidoscope 

Bob  Edge,  Sports 
Afield 

News 

6:05  New  Orleans 
Jazz  Band  Ball 

Saturday  At  The 
Chase 

7:00 
7:15 

7:30 

Monitor 

Pop  The  Question 
Inspiration,  Please 

News 

7:05  At  Ease 

Unit  99 

News 

7:05  Juke  Box  Jury 

7:55  Weather  Along 
The  Highways 

8:00 
8:15 
8:30 

8:45 

Monitor 

Teen-Age  Jamboree 

News 

8:05  Vincent  Lopez 

This  Week  In 

Washington 
This  Is  Your 

Business 

News.  Jackson 
8:05  Treasury  Of 

Music 
Upb°at  Saturday 

Night 

9:00 
9:15 

9:30 

Monitor 
Grand  Ole  Opry 

Teen-Age    Jamboree 
(con.) 

News 

9:05  National  Juke 

Box 
Sports 
9:35  Best  Bands 

Basin  Street  Jazz 

10:00 

10:15 
10:30 

Monitor 

Renfro  Valley 
Barn  Dance 

News 

10:05  Lawrence  Welk 

Army  Show 
Sports 
10:35  Rhythm  On 

Parade 

News 

10:05  Saturday 

Night  Country 

Style 

Sunday 


NBC 


MBS 


Morning    Programs 

Oral  Roberts 


8:30 
8:45 


9:00 

9:15 
9:30 

9:45 


10:00 
10:15 

10:30 
10:45 


11:00 
11:15 
11:30 
11:45 


Bible  Study  Hours 


World  News  Roundup 

Monitor 

Voice  Of  Prophecy 


National   Radio 
Pulpit 

Monitor 


Monitor 


11:35  New  World 


Wings  Of  Healing 
Back  To  God 


Radio  Bible  Class 
Voice  Of  Prophecy 


Frank  And  Ernest 

Christian  Science 

Monitor 
Northwestern 

Reviewing  Stand 


ABC 


Light  &  Life  Hour 


CBS 


Renfro  Valley 
8:55  Galen  Drake 


News  World  News  Roundup 

9:05GreatComposers' 

It's  Time  The  Music  Room 

Voice  of  Prophecy     Church    Of   The    Air 


News 

10:05  Message  Of 

Israel 
News 
10:35  College  Choir 


News,  Trout 
10:05  E.  Power 

Biggs 
Invitation  To 

Learning 


Sunday  Melodies         News 

11:05    Marines    On     11:05  Washington 

Review  Week 

l 

News  ;  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle 

11:35  Christian  In  ;     Choir 
Action 


Afternoon    Programs 


12:00 

Monitor 

As  1  See  It 

News,  Robert  Trout 
12:05  The  Fabulous 
Dorseys 

12:15 

World  Affairs 

12:30 

The  Eternal  Light 

News,  Bill  Cunning- 
ham 

News 

12:35  Herald  Of 

Guy  Lombardo  Time 

12:45 

Christian  Science 

Truth 

12:55  Weather 
Along  The  High- 
ways 

1:00 

Monitor 

Les  Paul  &  Mary  Ford 
1:05  News 

Dr.  Wm.  Ward  Ayer 

Woolworth    Hour- 
Percy  Faith, 

1:15 

Merry   Mailman 

Donald  Woods 

1:30 

Lutheran  Hour 

Lutheran   Hour 

News 

1:45 

1:35   Pilgrimage 

2:00 

Monitor 

Music  From   Britain 

Dr.  Oral  Roberts 

News 

2:15 

2:05  World  Music 

2:30 

The  Catholic  Hour 

Wings  Of  Healing 

Festivals* 

3:00 

Monitor 

Bandstand,  U.S.A. 

Dr.  James  McGinlay 

Music  Festival  (con.) 

3:15 

3:25  News 

3:30 

Billy  Graham 

Music  On  A  Sunday 

3:45 

Afternoon 

4:00 

Monitor 

Bandstand,  U.S.A. 

Old-fashioned 

News 

4:15 

Revival  Hour 

4:05    Music   On  A 

4:30 

Sunday   Afternoon 

4:45 

(con.) 

5:00 

Monitor 

Bandstand,  U.S.A. 

News 

5:15 

5:05  World  Theater 

5:25  Van  Voorhis, 
News 

5:05  Indictment 

5:30 

Sports 

Fort  Laramie 

5:45 

5:55   Wismer, 
Baseball  Scores 

5:35  High  Moment 

'8/12   Helsinki's   Sibelius   Festival;   8/19  Czech   Philharmony   of  Prague;   8/26 
Concertgebouw  Orch.  of  Amsterdam;  9/2  &  9/9  Bach  Festival,  Ansbach,  Germany 


Evening    Programs 


6:00 

Monitor 

News 

Don  Gardner,  News 

News 

6:05  News  Series 

6:15 

Tomorrow's 
Headlines 

Quincy  Howe 

6:30 

News 

6:35  Meet  The  Press 

On  The  Line.   Bob 
Considine 

Gunsmoke 

6:45 

Les  Paul  &  Marv  Ford 
6:50  Sports,  Wismer 

George  Sokolsky 

7:00 

Monitor 

By  The  People 

Bryson  Rash 

News  Analysis 
7:05  Mitch  Miller 
Show 

7:15 

Overseas  Assignment 

7:30 

Pan-American 

Sports 

7:45 

Panorama 

7:35  Political 
Roundup 

News 

7:55  Weather  Along 
The  Highways 

8:00 

Monitor 

Hawaii  Calls 

News.  George  Herman 

3:05  All  Star  Country 

8:05  Meet  Corliss 

8:15 

Show 

Archer 

8:30 

Sports 

Two  For  The  Money 

9:00 

Monitor 

Wm.  Hrllman,  News 

N°ws 

News 

9:15 

Dick  Joseph, 

9:05  Country  Show 

9:05  Summer  In 

World  Traveler 

(con.) 

St.  Louis 

9:30 

Manion  Forum 

Sports 

Music  From 

9:45 

Keep  Healthy 

Steel  Pier 
9:55  Jim  McKay 

10:00 

Billy  Graham 

Wings  Of  Healing 

News.  E.  D.  Canham 

News 

10:15 

Travel  Talk 

10:05  Face  The  Na- 
tion 
Church  Of  The  Air 

10:30 

American  Forum 

Bonsoir  Paris 

Revival  Time 

See   Next   Page- 


69 


TV  program  highlights 


NETWORKS 

0  CBS  flagship  station 
O  NBC  flagship  station 
0    ABC  flagship  station 


NEW  YORK  CITY  AND  SUBURBS  AND  NEW  HAVEN  CHANNEL   8,  AUGUST  7— SEPTEMBER  5 


Baseball  on  TV 


D — Doubleheader 


DATE 


TIME 


CH. 


GAME 


DATE 


TIME 


CH. 


R — Road  Game 


GAME 


AUGUST 

22,  Wed. 

2:00 

11 

Clev.  vs.  Yanks 

7,Tu. 

7:55 

9  Pgh.  vs.  Dodgers 

8:55 

9  St.  L.  vs.  Dodgers-/? 

8:00 

11  Phil.  vs.  Giants 

23,  Th. 

2:00 

11 

Chi.  vs.  Yanks 

8,  Wed. 

1:30 

11  Phil.  vs.  Giants 

8:55 

9  Mil.  vs.  Dodgers — R 

9,Th. 

1:30 

11   Phil.  vs.  Giants 

24,  Fri. 

8:15 

11 

Chi.  vs.  Yanks 

10,  Fri. 

7:55 

9  Phil.  vs.  Dodgers 

25,  Sat. 

2:00 

2,8,11 

Chi.  vs.  Yanks 

8:15 

11  Bait.  vs.  Yanks 

26,  Sun. 

2:00 

8,11 

Det.  vs.  Yanks — D 

11,  Sat. 

1:55 

2,  9  Phil.  vs.  Dodgers 

27,  Mon. 

3:25 

9 

Mil.  vs.  Dodgers — R 

2:00 

8, 11  Bait.  vs.  Yanks 

28,  Tu. 

2:25 

9 

Chi.  vs.  Dodgers — R 

12,  Sun. 

1:55 

9  Phil.  vs.  Dodgers 

29,  Wed. 

2:00 

11 

K.C.  vs.  Yanks 

2:00 

8, 11  Bait.  vs.  Yanks— D 

2:25 

9 

Chi.  vs.  Dodgers — R 

14,  Tu. 

7:55 

9  Giants  vs.  Dodgers 

30,  Th. 

2:25 

9 

Chi.  vs.  Dodgers — R 

8:15 

11  Boston  vs.  Yanks 

31,  Fri. 

8:00 

11 

Dodgers  vs.  Giants 

15,  Wed. 

2:00 

11  Boston  vs.  Yanks 

SEPTEMBER 

7:55 

9  Giants  vs.  Dodgers 

1,  Sat. 

2:00 

2,8,11 

Dodgers  vs.  Giants 

16,  Th. 

2:00 

11  Boston  vs.  Yanks 

8:00 

11 

Wash.  vs.  Yanks — R 

7:55 

9  Giants  vs.  Dodgers 

2,  Sun. 

2:00 

8,11 

Dodgers  vs.  Giants 

17,  Fri. 

8:00 

11  Pgh.  vs.  Giants 

3,  Mon. 

1:25 

9 

Pgh.  vs.  Dodgers — D 

18,  Sat. 

2:00 

8, 11  Pgh.  vs.  Giants 

1:30 

11 

Bait.  vs.  Yanks — D 

2:25 

2  Det.  vs.  Chicago 

5,  Wed. 

7:55 

9 

Pgh.  vs.  Dodgers 

8:00 

11  Yanks  vs.  Bait.— R 

6,Th. 

7:55 

9  Giants  vs.  Dodgers 

19,  Sun. 

2:00 

11  Pgh.  vs.  Giants 

7,  Fri. 

7:55 

9 

Giants  vs.  Dodgers 

21,  Tu. 

8:15 

11  Clev.  vs.  Yanks 

8:15 

11 

Wash.  vs.  Yanks 

NOTE:  Presidential  Conventions  will  take  precedence  over 

all  network  programs: 

August  13-17,  Democratic; 

August  20-24  Republican. 

70 


Monday  through  Friday 


7:00  ©  Today— Awake  &  away  with  Garroway 
8:30  ©  It's  Fun  To  Reduce— Figure  control 
9:00  ©  (00  at  11)    My    Little    Margie-Laffs 
©  Herb  Sheldon— &  Jo  McCarthy 
10:00  0  Of  All  Things— Faye  Emerson 
10:30  ©  Godfrey     Time— Mon.     thru     Thurs., 
Peter   Lind    Hayes   emcees 

©  Claire   Mann— For  women   only 
11:00  ©  Home— For    the    housewife 
12:00  0  Valiant   Lady— Flora   Campbell   stars 

©  Feather  Your  Nest— Bud   Collyer 
12:15  0  00  Love  Of  Life— Stars  Jean  McBride 
12:30  0  00  Search  For  Tomorrow— Serial 

©  It  Could  Be  You— Bill  Leyden 
12:45  0  [k]  Guiding  Light— Perennial  favorite 
1:00  0  Charles  Coll ingwood— News 
1:10  0  Stand  Up  And  Be  Counted— Russell 

©  One  Is  For  Sheldon— Herb's  hot 
1:30  0  As  The  World  Turns-Serial 
2:00  0  Johnny  Carson  Show— Variety 

©  Richard     Willis— Female     renovating 
2:30  0  0  Art  Linkletter's  House  Party 

©  Tennessee    Ernie— No.    1    pea-picker 
3:00  0  Big   Payoff— Randy  Merriman   quiz 
©  Matinee  Theater— Hour  teleplays 
0  00  Film   Festival— Excellent   movies 
0  Ted   Steele— Happy-go-lucky  time 
3:30  0  Bob  Crosby  Show— Let's  swing,  gates 
4:00  0  Brighter   Day— Daily  serial 

©  Queen  For  A  Day— Royal  fun 
4:15  0  Secret    Storm— Peter    Hobbs    stars 
4:30  0  Edge  Of  Night— John   Larkin  stars 
5:00  0  Virginia  Graham— Chit-chat  for  gals 
7:15  O  John   Daly— Award-winning   newsman 
7:30  ©  GO  Songs— Gordon    MacRae,    M.; 

Frankie  Carle,  Tu.;  Snooky  Lanson,  Th.;  Jaye 
P.  Morgan,  W.,  F. 

0  Million    Dollar    Movie— Aug.    6-12, 
"Show  Business,"  Eddie  Cantor;  Aug.  13-19, 
"Teckman   Mystery,"   John   Justin;   Aug.   20- 
26,    "Body    Snatcher,"     Bela     Lugosi,    Boris 
Karloff;  Aug  27-Sept.  2,  "A  Girl,  A  Guy  and 
a  Gob,"  Lucille  Ball;  Sept.  3-9,  "Nocturne" 
7:45  ©  John     Cameron    Swayze— News 
10:00  0  Million  Dollar  Movie— See  7:30  p.m. 
11:00  O  Cecil   Brown— News 
11:10  O  Night  Show— Feature  films 
11:15  0  The    Late   Show— Feature   films 
11:30  ©  Tonight-Steve  Allen,  Wed.,  Th.,   Fri. 


Monday  P.M. 


7:30  0  Bold    Journey— True-Life    adventures 

(D  Suzie— Private  Secretary  re-runs 
8:00  0  Burns    &    Allen— Reruns    for    summer 
©  Ernie  Kovacs  Show— Except  Aug.  20, 
Producers'  Showcase 

(D  Public  Defender— Reed  Hadley  stars 
8:30  0  Talent  Scouts— Bob  Crosby  emcees 

O  00  Voice    Of    Firestone— Concerts 
9:00  0  00  Charlie  Farrell  Show— Comedy 
©  Medic— Last  Aug.  20 
O  Film  Fair— Aug.  13,  "Boys  In  Brown," 
Jack    Warner;    Aug.    20,    "Here    Come    the 
Huggets,"   Jack    Warner;    Aug.    27,    "Cara- 
van,"   Stewart     Granger;    Sept.     3,    "Third 
Time   Lucky,"   Glynis   Johns 
9:30  0  The  Vic  Damone  Show— Songs 
©  Robert    Montgomery    Presents 
10:00  0  00  Westinghouse  Summer  Theater 
10:30  ©  Doug  Fairbanks  Presents— Stories 


Tuesday 


7:00  ©  Gildersleeve— Willard    Waterman 
7:30  0  Name  That  Tune— Mu$ical  Quiz 

0  Waterfront— Pres    Foster   as   Mike 
8:00  0  Phil    Silvers    Show— Reruns 

©  Dear  Phoebe— Reruns.  Aug.   14  and 
and   Sept.  4,  Chevy  Show— Musical  revue 
8:30  ©  This    Is   Show   Business— Witty 
9:00  0  Joe  &  Mabel— Comedy 

©  Sneak  Preview— Filmed   dramas 

0  GE  Summer  Originals 
9:30' 0  Undercurrent— Melodramas 

©  Kaiser  Theater— Circle  Theater 
10:00  0  [s]  $64,000  Question-Hal  March 

0  The  Big  Picture— Army  documentary 
10:30  0  Do  You  Trust  Your  Wife?— Bergen 

©  Big    Town— Mark   Stevens   stars 

0  Women    Want    To    Know— Faysie 


Wednesday 


7:30  0  Cartoon    Theater— Terrytoons 
O  00  Disneyland— Fun    &   fantasy 

8:00  0  Frankie   Laine  Show 

©  Press  Conference— Martha  Rountree 
<D  Man  Behind  The  Badge— Police 

8:30  0  GO  The  Amazing  Dunninger— Magic 

9:00  ©  Kraft  Theater— Fine  plays 


0  Qf]  Screen   Directors'  Playhouse 
®  The  Man  Called  X— Barry  Sullivan 
9:30  0  I've    Got   A   Secret— Bob    Cummings 

O  HI  Eddy  Arnold  Show 
10:00  0  U.    S.    Steel    Hour— Alternates    with 
20th  Century-Fox  Hour 

©  This  Is  Your  Life-Reruns 
0  GO  Boxing— Headline    events 


Thursday 


8:00  ©  You  Bet  Your  Life— Groucho  reruns 

0  Liberace — Valentino   of   piano 

O  Hour    Glass— English    films 
8:30  0  Climax— Suspense    dramas 

©  Dragnet— Summer    reruns 
9:00  ©  People's  Choice— Comedy  reruns 

0  Professional  Wrestling— Dramatic 
9:30  0  Four  Star  Playhouse— Drama 

©  (GO  at  10)   Ford   Theater— Reruns 

0  Greatest  Sport   Shows 
10:00  0  Arthur    Murray    Party— Katie    stars 

©  Lux  Video  Theater— Dramas 
10:30  0  Racket  Squad— Reed  Hadley  sturs 


Friday 


7:30  ©  I  Spy— Raymond   Massey  thriller 

8:00  0  Hollywood  Summer  Theater 

0  Sherlock    Holmes— Master    detective 
0  00  Combat   Sergeant— Melodrama 

8:30  0  Our  Miss  Brooks— Summer  reruns 
0  All   Star   Football   Game— Aug.   10 
from  Chicago 

9:00  ©  Best   In  Mystery— Whodunits 

0  Treasure  Hunt— Jan  Murray  quiz 

9:30  ©  Star  Stage— Teleplay  reruns 
10:00  0  Undercurrent— Melodramas 

©  Boxing— With  Jimmy,  the  Powerhouse 
0  It's  Polka  Time— Live  &  lively 


Saturday 


5:00  0  Turf  Events— Aug.  25,  $50,000  Sara- 
toga   Handicap;   Sept.    1,   $30,000    Hopeful, 
Saratoga. 
6:00  0  Telephone   Time— John    Nesbitt 
6:15  ©  Patti  Page— On  film 
7:30  0  Beat   The   Clock— Bud    Collyer 

©  Down   You  Go— Dr.   Evans 
8:00  0  QO  The  Honeymooners— Reruns 

©  Tony  Bennett  Show— Variety 
8:30  0  GO  Stage  Show— Dorseys  &  guests 
9:00  0  Two  For  The  Money— Sam  Levenson 
©  People  Are   Funny— Linkletter 
0  GO  Lawrence   Welk— Family  favorite 
9:30  0  Russ  Morgan  Show— Musical  show 
©  Ford  Theater— Reruns 
10:00  0  Gunsmoke— Western 

0  GO  Masquerade  Party— Lotsa  fun 
10:30  0  High  Finance— Dennis  James  quiz 

©  Adventure    Theater— Paul    Douglas 


Sunday 


5:00  O  Going  Places— Musical  from  Fla. 
7:30  0  GO  Private  Secretary— Jack  Benny 
©  Frontier— Reruns 

0  Film     Festival— Aug.     12,    "Clouded 
Yellow,"    Jean    Simmons;    Aug.     19,    "Ivory 
Hunter,"     Anthony     Steele;     Aug     26,     "In 
Which   We   Serve,"   Noel   Coward;   Sept.   2, 
"Notorious  Gentleman,"   Rex  Harrison 
8:00  0  GO  Ed  Sullivan  Show— Extravaganza 
©  Steve   Allen    Show— Variety,   except 
Aug.  12,  Spectacular,  "Oh,  Susannah." 
9:00  0  G-E    Theater— Reruns 

©  TV  Playhouse— Live  hour  teleplays 
0  GO  Original  Amateur  Hour 
10:00  0  $64,000    Challenge— Sonny    Fox 

©  Man  Against  Crime— Frank  Lovejoy 
Loretta  Young  Show— returns  Aug.  26 
0  Focus — Dramatic   documentaries 
10:30  0  GO  What's  My  Line?— Job  game 


What's  New 
from  COAST  to  COAST 

(Continued  from  page  17) 


L 


Alabamans  answered  the  public-service 
call  to  a  WSGN-Marine  Reserve  Pla- 
toon. Above,  deejay  Duke  Rumore  talks 
to  recruits  Bob  Morris  and  Jim   Regan. 


.  .  .  My  apologies  for  my  slip  of  the  type- 
writer when  I  said  Buff  Cobb's  uncle  was 
the  late  Irvin  S.  Cobb.  Actually  the  famous 
writer  was  Buff's  grandfather,  as  many  of 
you  were  quick  to  write  and  tell  me.  And 
congratulations  on  such  sharp  readership! 

What  Ever  Happened  To  ...  ? 

Win  Elliot,  who  used  to  do  the  County 
Fair  show,  and  was  also  the  announcer  on 
several  other  programs?  Win  has  been 
devoting  most  of  his  time  to  doing  TV 
commercials  lately,  and  you'll  see  him 
every  now  and  then  "selling  the  product." 

Peggy  McCay,  who  played  "Vanessa 
Raven"  on  Love  Of  Life?  Peggy  left  the 
show  several  months  ago,  at  her  own  re- 
quest, in  order  to  accept  various  dramatic 
roles  she  couldn't  do  while  committed  to 
the  Love  Of  Life  program.  She  has  done 
several  leads  on  TV  drama  programs,  and 
also  appeared  recently  in  "Uncle  Vanya," 
an  off-Broadway  stage  production.  Peggy 
is  at  present  up  for  the  lead  in  "Maiden 
Voyage,"  a  new  play  set  to  open  in  New 
York  this  fall. 

Jim  Kirkwood,  who  plays  the  son  on 
Valiant  Lady?  Jimmy  is  not  being  dropped 
from  the  cast  of  the  program,  but  his 
role  has  been  "written  in  and  out"  of  the 
script  this  summer  because  of  his  straw- 
hat  circuit  tour  with  Tallulah  Bankhead 
in  her  new  show,  "Welcome,  Darlings." 


If  you  have  a  question  about  one  of  your 
favorite  people  or  programs,  or  wonder 
what  has  happened  to  someone  on  radio 
or  television,  drop  me  a  line — Miss  Jill 
Warren,  TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East  42nd 
Street,  New  York  17,  New  York,  and  I'll 
try  my  best  to  find  out  for  you  and  put  the 
information  in  the  column.  Unfortunately 
we  don't  have  space  to  answer  all  ques- 
tions, so  I  try  to  cover  those  personalities 
about  whom  I  receive  the  most  inquiries. 
Sorry,  no  personal  answers,  so  please  do 
not  enclose  stamped  envelopes  or  postage, 
as  they  cannot  be  returned. 


UTOL 


new  miracle  antibiotic  pimple  medication 


...PUTS  YOUR  BEST  FACE  FORWARD! 

The  world  takes  you  at  face  value.  So  it's 
important  for  you  to  use  UTOL,  the  mir- 
acle antibiotic  skin  cream  that  is  the  fast- 
est known  remedy  for  externally  caused 
skin  blemishes. 

Hides  as  it  heals! 

Here's  the  ONLY  antibiotic  skin  cream ! 
UTOL,  with  the  magic  of  Tyrothricin, 
kills  the  skin  bacteria  that  usually  cause 
skin  blemishes.  Field  tests  prove  — UTOL 
dries  up  common  skin  eruptions  and  clears 
skin  in  as  little  as  10  days! 


ONLY  $100 

*UTOL  is  standard 
treatment  for 
Contact  Dermatitis. 


MONEY  BACK  GUARANTEE-Your  money  re- 
funded if  UTOL  does  not  satisfy  completely ! 

Sold  At  All  Drugstores 
A  PRODUCT  OF  McKESSON  &  ROBBINS 


ONE  MINUTE 

of  simple  care  in  minor  injuries 

Guts -Burns 

May  avoid  terrible  infection 

mossos  %Mm m—  ' %W 


Apply  germ- 
rarrestingoiL-o-soL 
at  once.  Helps 
control  infection, 
ease  pain,  speed 
healing.  Use  it  to- 
day. Don't  suffer. 
At  your  drug  store 


M 


;»M 


e*1 


MOTHERS 


Four  child's  photo  may  qualify  for  a 
FREE  CAMERA— also  earn  $350  if 
used  for  advertising.  BIG  DEMAND 
for  photos  of  infants  to  18  yrs.  Send 
ONE  small  photo  for  approval.  Print 
child's  and  mother's  name,  address 
on  back.  Returned  two  weeks.  NO 
OBLIGATION. 

ADVERTISERS  PHOTOS 

6000-HWSunset,  Holly  wood28,  Calif, 


Never  a  dull  moment 

when  you're  bright  K|  (IN Mr 

Be  a  gay  blonde  charmer — today! 


TURN  "so-so"  hair  glamour- 
bright  and  see  how  exciting 
life  can  be!  With  Marchand's 
Golden  Hair  Wash,  you  can 
lighten  just  a  shade  or  go 
dashing,  dazzling  blonde  — 
safely,  easily  at  home.  Or  add 
sunny  highlights,  gleam  dark 
hair  with  bronze.  Golden  Hair 
Wash,  complete  in  one  pack- 
age, has  been  the  favorite 
home  hair  lightener  for  over 
50  years.  Lightens  arm  and 
leg  hair,  too. 


At  drugstores 
everywhere 
75c  and  $1.00 
plus  tax 


MARCHAND'S  GOLDEN  HAIR  WASH 


71 


Sonny  Fox  Meets  The  $64,000  Challenge 


(Continued  from  page  45) 
nickname.    His   real   name   is   Irwin   Fox. 
His  mother  began  to  call  him  Sonny  when 
he    was    a    toddler,    and    every    one    else 
chorused    in. 

Through  school,  Sonny  participated  a 
little  in  dramatic  clubs,  but  he  never 
thought  seriously  of  show  business.  His 
ambition,  even  in  his  teens,  was  to  follow 
in  his  father's  footsteps.  He  recalls  a  high- 
school  essay  in  which  he  hoped  for  a  fu- 
ture where  he  would  work  in  textiles, 
earn  up  to  ten  thousand  dollars  a  year 
and  be  a  pillar  in  community  activities. 
That  was  Sonny,  the  solid  citizen.  There 
was  also  Sonny,  the  ham. 

"I  had  a  tendency  toward  self-drama- 
tization in  my  lower  teens,"  he  grins. 
"One  thing,  I  used  to  scare  my  sisters  by 
pretending  suicide.  I  think  I  got  the  idea 
out  of  a  movie.  But  my  mother  had  such 
a  sense  of  humor  that  she  always  spoiled 
my  scenes.  I  remember  one  day  I  turned 
the  gas  on  in  the  kitchen.  She  came  in 
running,  but,  instead  of  bawling  me  out 
and  making  a  scene — which  I  would  have 
loved — she  said,  'Sonny,  if  this  explodes, 
it'll  make  a  terrible  noise.' 

"And  there  was  the  day  my  sisters  were 
teasing  me.  That  time,  I  went  to  the  bed- 
room and  sat  on  the  window-sill  with  my 
feet  hanging  out,  and  threatened  to  jump. 
My  sisters  began  screaming,  but  Mother 
came  into  the  room  and  said,  'Sonny,  you're 
only  one  storey  up  and,  if  you  jump,  you'll 
just  break  an  arm  or  leg  and  have  to  go 
to  a  hospital.  That's  expensive  and  there 
are  many  better  ways  of  spending  money." 

Sonny  continues,  "Mother  is  a  beautiful, 
remarkable  woman,  over  and  above  the 
sense  of  humor." 


Sonny  had  planned  to  study  textiles  at 
the  University  of  North  Carolina,  but  he 
was  graduated  from  high  school  in  the 
middle  of  the  school  year.  While  he  was 
waiting  for  the  fall  semester,  he  enrolled 
at  New  York  University  in  radio.  He  liked 
that  semester  so  much,  he  decided  to  con- 
tinue. But,  halfway  through  N.Y.U.  he 
was  drafted  into  World  War  II.  In  the 
infantry,  he  got  several  battle  stars  and  a 
Purple  Heart.    He  was  a  prisoner  of  war. 

Sonny  was  a  P.O.W.  for  three  months 
and  went  down  from  one-hundred-seventy 
pounds  to  a  hundred  and  five.  The  only 
meal  of  the  day  was  a  piece  of  bread  and 
cup  of  soup.  It  was  mid-winter  and  his 
feet  literally  froze.  There  was  nothing  to 
do  and  so,  to  pass  time,  anyone  who  could 
talk  about  anything  gave  lectures.  And 
they  organized  quiz  games.  That  was 
Sonny's  only  experience  as  a  quizmaster 
before  The  $64,000  Challenge.  In  1946, 
after  two  and  a  half  years  in  service,  he 
returned  to  N.Y.U. 

"After  graduation,"  he  says,  "I  got  a 
job  with  Allen  Funt's  crew  on  Candid 
Camera.  On  that  job,  I  lost  the  tape  of 
one  of  our  best  stunts.  Allen  blew  his  top 
— with  good  reason — but  he  didn't  fire  me. 
Later,  I  worked  for  Arch  Obelor  in  Cali- 
fornia, then  came  back  to  New  York  again, 
to  write  for  Herb  Sheldon.  I  wrote  comedy 
for  five  shows  a  week.  After  six  weeks, 
I  was  so  morose  I  had  to  quit.  Then  I  went 
back  to  Funt  for  a  while,  and  finally  got 
set  with  the  Voice  of  America  in  April 
of  1951." 

The  previous  fall,  he  had  met  Gloria  at 
a  restaurant  in  Greenwich  Village.  She 
was  dating  a  friend  of  his.  It  was  Hallo- 
ween, but  everyone  was  wearing  their  God- 


T 
v 


PLAY  EDITOR 


Who  are  your  favorites?      Send  your  votes  for  the  TV,  radio  or 

recording  artists  you  want  to  see  in  TV  Radio  Mirror. 

In  color,  I  want  to  see: 


TV  ACTOR 

TV  ACTRESS 

RADIO   ACTOR 

RADIO   ACTRESS... 
RECORDING    STAR. 


The  features  I  liked  best  in  this  issue  of  TV  RADIO  MIRROR  are: 

1 


2. 
3. 


The  features  I  like  least  in  this  issue  are: 


1. 
2. 
3. 


□ NO  □ 


I   enjoy  the   stories   on   local   personalities YES 

I  would  like  to  see  more  of  them YES   □ NO   □ 

I  use  the  program  listings  and  would  like 

to  see  them   continued YES   □  .  .  NO   D 

YOUR  NAME 

STREET  OR  BOX  NO 

CITY    OR   TOWN STATE............... 

Mail  your  answers  to:   TV  Radio  Mirror,  Play  Editor  Poll,  Box  1747, 
Grand   Central  Station,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 


72 


L_. 


given  faces.  And,  when  Sonny  saw 
Gloria's,  he  went  boing.  But  Gloria  didn't 
take  an  immediate  liking  to  Sonny.  The 
Fox  looked  like  a  wolf  to  her.  However, 
he  wasn't,  and  he  didn't  attempt  to  get  a 
date,  for  he  respected  his  friend's  prior 
rights.  In  spring  of  1952,  he  heard  that  his 
friend  was  no  longer  dating  Gloria  and 
decided  to  make  his  bid. 

"I  was  still  working  for  the  Voice  and 
Gloria  was  at  Republican  Headquarters  in 
Manhattan.  I  called  her  boss,  whom  I 
knew,  and  suggested  that  I  do  a  series  on 
'Young  People  in  Politics,'  to  be  beamed 
overseas.  We  made  a  luncheon  date  and, 
when  I  went  over  to  meet  him,  I  'ran  into' 
Gloria  and  invited  her  along.  After  lunch- 
eon, I  made  my  first  date." 

Only  one  program  was  done  on  the  sub- 
ject of  "Young  Politicians,"  but  Sonny  did 
make  a  project  out  of  Gloria.  She  says  that 
never  before  had  she  so  much  fun  on  dates: 
"He  always  had  something  unusual  planned, 
and  it  was  always  exciting.  One  evening 
we  would  go  sight-seeing  and  he  had  the 
entire  route  planned.  The  next  date  might 
be  dinner  in  a  fashionable  restaurant.  He 
would  always  say,  'This  is  what  I've  got 
planned  for  the  evening.  Does  it  appeal  to 
you?'    It  always  did." 

It  was  the  year  of  the  Presidential  cam- 
paign. Sonny  was  for  Adlai.  Gloria  was 
for  Ike.  "We  had  an  agreement  about  no 
campaign  buttons  when  we  went  out,"  he 
recalls,  "but  we  argued  constantly.  If 
Eisenhower  or  Stevenson  had  made  a 
speech  the  night  before,  we'd  yak  it  over 
until  we  got  to  the  party  or  theater.  We'd 
have  a  truce  during  the  party,  then  argue 
all  the  way  home.  I  think  that's  why  I 
went  to  Korea  in  November.  Just  to  save 
our  romance." 

He  went  to  Korea  on  a  Voice  of  Amer- 
ica assignment.  Before  he  left,  he  and 
Gloria  had  a  serious  discussion.  He  was  to 
be  gone  six  months  and  it  was  decided 
that,  if  both  felt  the  same  when  he  got 
back,  they  would  marry — regardless  of 
who  was  President.  He  couldn't  wait  six 
months.  On  New  Year's  Eve,  he  phoned 
from  Tokyo  and  proposed.  They  were 
married  on  May  1,  1953.  Their  marriage 
license  is  in  Japanese.  The  civil  ceremony 
and  license  cost  them  thirty  yen,  or  nine 
cents. 

After  a  year,  Sonny  resigned.  Back  in 
the  States,  he  auditioned  for  a  television 
job  at  Station  KETC  in  St.  Louis.  He  was 
hired  as  The  Finder,  which  was  both  the 
title  and  the  title  role  of  a  children's  show. 

"Of  course,"  he  chuckles,  "Gloria  thought 
it  was  pretty  funny  that  I,  the  loser,  should 
be  called,  'The  Finder.'  But  it  was  a  lot 
of  fun.  I  drove  all  over  Missouri  in  a 
Corvette,  finding  things  and  people  that 
interest  children." 

KETC  is  one  of  sixteen  educational  tele- 
vision stations  in  the  country.  They  are 
non-commercial  and  are  supported  by  the 
public.  Some  of  their  shows  create  as  much 
excitement  as  commercial  programs. 
Sonny's  show  was  a  tremendous  success. 
Usually,  he  didn't  have  a  studio  audience, 
but  one  of  his  telecasts  was  made  from  a 
cave  eighty  miles  out  of  the  city.  He  in- 
vited anyone  who  wanted  to  join  in  the 
expedition.  Five  thousand  children  showed 
up,  escorted  by  teachers  and  parents. 
When  CBS  wooed  Sonny,  eleven  months 
after  he  started  with  KETC,  the  children 
of  St.  Louis  came  down  to  the  studio  en 
masse  to  picket  against  his  departure. 

Sonny's  present  children's  show,  the 
highly  acclaimed  Let's  Take  A  Trip,  is  seen 
over  seventy-seven  CBS-TV  stations.  Each 
Sunday  a  trip  is  made  to  an  institution  or 
industry.  Sonny,  with  his  TV  friends,  Pud 
and  Ginger,  has  been  in  a  police  station, 


_ 


a  submarine,  airport,  bank,  aircraft  plant 
and  many  other  places. 

Sonny  has  always  been  good  with 
youngsters.  He's  fond  of  them.  He  was 
a  volunteer  baby-sitter  for  his  sisters' 
children.  Now,  on  occasion,  he  takes  over 
his  own  baby  for  a  day,  if  Gloria  goes  out. 
The  baby,  born  September  30,  1955,  is 
named  Christopher  and  also  has  a  room 
overlooking  the  Hudson. 

Their  apartment  is  the  result  of  the 
combined  efforts  of  husband  and  wife. 
"Sonny  is  very  much  interested  in  the 
home,"  Gloria  says.  "I  can  talk  to  him 
about  color  schemes  or  a  china  pattern. 
He  doesn't  say  'Yes,  yes,'  just  to  shut  you 
up.    He  listens  and  comments." 

He  has  also  contributed  a  bit  of  manual 
labor.  Out  of  six-foot,  eight-inch  doors, 
Sonny  has  fashioned  dining  and  coffee 
tables.  The  dining  table  is  mahogany.  The 
coffee  table  has  been  surfaced  with  black 
and  white  vinyl  squares. 

The  living  room  is  predominantly  red, 
black  and  white.  There  are  a  couple  of 
sling  chairs,  one  in  red  and  the  other  in 
black;  a  hi-fi  cabinet  Sonny  finished  in 
black;  draperies  and  cushions  are  in  red. 
White  has  been  used  decoratively  to  frame 
pictures.  There  is  a  strong  Oriental  cast 
to  the  room,  for  many  of  the  most  beau- 
tiful things — a  doll  encased  in  glass,  an 
Ivory  chess  set,  prints,  scrolls — are  Japa- 
nese. "We  are  very  interested  in  art," 
Sonny  says.  "Someday,  we'd  like  to  be 
collectors.  We  always  have  an  original 
canvas  hanging  in  the  room,  rented  from 
the  Museum  of  Modern  Art." 

The  baby's  bedroom  has  a  large,  cheer- 
ful mural  on  one  wall  and  a  huge  Pogo 
drawing  on  the  other.  Gloria  keeps  a 
double-bed  here  for  guests  and,  when 
friends  sleep  in,  she  rolls  the  baby  crib 
into  the  master  bedroom.  The  master  bed- 
room is  blue  and  white,  with  accents  of 
red. 

"We  keep  our  television  set  in  the  bed- 
room," Sonny  notes.  "That  leaves  the 
living  room  free  for  reading  or  working. 
Or,  if  we  have  friends  in  and  one  of  them 
has  to  see  a  particular  program,  he  can 
go  back  to  the  bedroom  and  watch  with- 
out disturbing  others.  It  works  out  fine 
for  us." 

Sonny  is  busiest  on  weekends.  Saturday 
is  rehearsal  day  and  Sunday  is  telecasting 
day  for  both  programs.  His  "weekend" 
starts  on  Monday.  "Monday  is  recovery 
day.  Tuesday,  Gloria  and  I  get  out  to- 
gether.  Just  the  two  of  us." 

Then,  they  have  a  nurse  in  to  take  care 
of  Christopher.  They  catch  a  subway  and 
they  may  get  off  at  Central  Park,  walk 
across  the  park  to  the  Metropolitan  Mu- 
seum, spend  a  couple  of  hours  there  and 
then  go  to  Macy's  to  do  some  shopping. 
Sonny  likes  to  shop  for  Gloria.  He  likes 
her  in  high  styles.  He  is  so  interested  in 
what  she  wears  that  often,  before  she  buys 
a  dress,  she  will  have  it  sent  out  for  his 
approval. 

Of  more  interest  to  Gloria  than  clothes 
are  flower  shows  and  plant  stores.  "We 
have  drawers  full  of  flower  seeds,"  Sonny 
says.  "We'd  like  to  have  a  house  in  the 
country,  so  that  Gloria  can  get  back  to 
the  soil." 

Gloria  is  in  no  rush.  They  have  been 
married  only  three  years.  They  have 
swirled  around  the  world  and  there  has 
hardly  been  a  quiet  moment.  "And  may- 
be it's  because  we've  been  married  a  short 
time,"  she  observed,  "but  we've  yet  to 
have  an  argument.  Sonny  is  really  easy 
to  get  along  with,  but  never  dull.  Living 
with  Sonny  has  been  as  exciting  as  riding 
the  tail  of  a  comet." 

•••* ••••••••••••••••••••*••* 

BUY  U.  S.  SAVINGS  BONDS 
••••••••••••••••••••••••••■AT* 


Oraw  me 

You  may  win  a  *37500 

Scholarship  in  Professional  Art 

Prize:  A  complete  art  course  —  free 
training  for  a  career  in  advertising  art 
or  illustrating — plus  a  drawing  outfit 
and  valuable  art  textbooks! 

Demand  for  trained  artists  is  in- 
creasing. Try  for  this  free  art  course. 
You're  trained  by  professional  artists. 
You  get  individual  coaching,  personal 
guidance. 

Scholarship  is  offered  by  world's 
largest  home  study  art  school.  Many 
of  its  graduates  are  highly  paid  art- 
ists today. 


ART  INSTRUCTION,  INC.    •  STUDIO  8396 

500  South  4th  Street*  Minneapolis  15,  Minnesota 

Please  enter  my  attached  drawing  in  your  "Draw  Me" 

contest.  (PLEASE  PRINT) 

Name A  G  £ 


Address- 
City 


-Zone- 


Occupation- 


-County^ 

Slate- 

Phone- 


DRAW  THIS  GIRL'S  HEAD 
5  inches  high.  Use  pencil.  All 
drawings  for  September  1956 
contest  must  be  received  by 
September  30.  None  returned. 
Winner  notified.  Amateurs 
only.  Our  students  not  eligi- 
ble . .  .  Mail  drawing  today! 


CAN 
YOU 
USE 


■  You  can  make  this  and  even  more  every  week 


°.efi-   «.  J. 


Depi- 


in  your  spare  time,  by  show- 
ing   America's   outstanding 
brands  of  Christmas  Cards. 
CRESTCARD  will  send  you 
4     nationally     advertised 
lines    at  the   same   time. 
IT  COSTS  NOTHING  TO 
TRY. 


Make  This 

Mollie  Parnis 

Original         /> 

and  be  the 

Best  Dressed  Girl 


In  Town 

Let  these  famous 
American  Designers 
help  you  be  the  best 
dressed  girl  in  town — 
if  you  can  sew: — 

Ceil     Chapman   — 
Claire  McCardell  — 
Tina  Lesei — Jo  Cope- 
land— Philip  Mangone  MOLLIE  PARNIS 
— Monte    Sano — Her- 
bert Sondheim — Brigance — David    Goodstein — 
Joset  Walker — Joseph  Halpert — Vera  Maxwell 
— Toni  Owen — Fira  Benenson — Harvey  Berin 
— Frank  Gallant — Mollie  Parnis — Claire  Potter. 

Patterns  of  136  original  designs  by  these  fa- 
mous names  are  now  available. 

To  see  this  entire  collection  send  50c  for  our 
100-page  pattern  booklet  XI. 

World  Wide,  Dept.  WG-9-56 

63  Central  Avenue,  Ossining,  N.  Y. 

Send  me   100-page  pattern  booklet   XI.      I  en- 
close fifty  cents. 

NAME 

STREET 

CITY 

ZONE STATE 


High  School  Course 

at  Home 


Many  Finish  in  2  Years 

If  you  did  not  or  cannot  finish  high  school,  here  is 
your  opportunity.  Study  in  spare  time  at  home.  Go 
as  rapidly  as  your  time  and  abilities  permit.  Course 
equivalent  to  residential  school — prepares  for  college 
exams.  Standard  texts  supplied.  Credit  for  subjects 
already  completed.  Single  subjects  if  desired.  Di- 
ploma awarded.  Be  a  High  School  graduate.  Start 
studies  now.  Free  Bulletin.  Send  coupon. 

OUR  59TH  YEAR 

AMERICAN  SCHOOL,  Dept.  H-653 
Drexel  at  58th  St.,  Chicago  37,  III. 

Without     obligation,     please     send     FREE     descri 
booklet. 


I 


Address 

Complete   Canadian   Courses   available.    Write    American 
School,  Dept.  H653,  6083  Sherbrooke  St.  W.,  Montreal 


BE  YOUR  OWN 
MUSIC  TEACHER 

Send  for  Free  Book  Telling  How  Easily  «_ 
You  Can  Learn  Piano,  Guitar,  Accordion,  JJ 
ANY   Instrument  This  EASY  A-B-C  Way 


N? 


OW  IT'S  EASY  to  Ieam  music  at  home. 

No  tiresome  "exercises."  No  teacher, 
just  STAKT  RIGHT  OUT  playing  simple 
pieces.  Thousands  now  play  who  never  thought  they 
could.  Our  pictured  lessons  make  it  easy  as  A-B-C  to 
learn  to  play  popular  music,  hymns,  classical  and  any 
other  music.  Only  a  few  cents  a  lesson.  Over  900,000 
students!   Our  58th  successful  year. 

MAIL  COUPON  FOR  FREE  BOOK 

Find  out  why  our  method  can  teach  you 
quickly,  easily,  inexpen- 
sively. Mail  coupon  for 
Free  36-page  Illustrated 
Book.  No  obligation.  U.S. 
SCHOOL  OF  MUSIC, 
Studio  209,  Port  Washing- 
ton,   N.Y. 


u.  s. 

1    Studio 

SCHOOL 

209.   Port 

OF   MUSIC 
Washington, 

N.   Y. 

1   Please 
j    (Name 

send    me    Free    Book. 
Instrument). 

I    would 

like 

to 

play 

i    Instrument. 

Have  you 

Nam 

(Please  Print) 

73 


A  Woman  Is  Many  People 


(Continued  from  page  53) 
and  carried  a  live  turkey  up  the  steps 
of  City  Hall  in  New  York.  .  .  .  Yet,  when 
Orson  Welles  first  went  to  Hollywood  and 
needed  a  "real  lady"  to  play  his  wife  in 
"Citizen  Kane,"  he  sent  for  this  same 
Ruth  Warrick  —  the  ex-Jubilesta  queen. 
.  .  .  and  when  the  producers  needed  some- 
one who  wasn't  a  "lady,"  but  down-to- 
earth  enough  to  play  "the  other  woman" 
in  As  The  World  Turns,  the  new  CBS-TV 
daytime  drama — they,  too,  sent  for  Ruth 
Warrick. 

But  you've  driven  along  the  Hudson 
River  as  far  as  Sing  Sing  Prison  .  .  .  time 
to  turn  off  the  road  for  Ruth's  place. 
There  it  is — the  Gate  House,  as  charming 
a  retreat  as  you've  ever  seen,  complete 
with  grounds  and  flowers,  grass  and  trees, 
and  a  dog  who  jumps  all  over  you.  There's 
even  a  view  of  the  Hudson  flowing  self- 
consciously by.  And  then  .  .  .  out  comes  a 
woman  so  beautiful  that  you  wonder 
what's  wrong  with  television.  Why  don't 
they  catch  the  delicate  coloring,  the  soft 
red  hair,  the  womanly  radiance  of  her? 

"And  how  do  you  do,  Miss  Jubilesta?" 
you  gulp. 

As  she  introduces  you  to  the  family, 
however,  her  grace  as  a  hostess  comes 
into  play.  This,  you  recognize,  is  the 
"real  lady"  of  "Citizen  Kane."  Her  hus- 
band, Bob  McNamara,  seems  like  the 
happiest  Irishman  you've  ever  met.  Then 
you  shake  hands  with  Jon,  her  thirteen - 
year-old  son.  You  try  not  to  frighten 
Timothy,  the  baby. 

"Such  a  cutie  pie!"  Ruth  cries,  re- 
ferring to  the  baby.  Then,  noticing  the 
cap  on  her  fourteen-year-old  daughter's 
head,  she  explains:  "Karen's  been  wear- 
ing her  hair  under  a  sailor's  cap  ever 
since  she  saw  Mary  Martin  in  'South 
Pacific' " 

It's  such  a  happy  family  scene,  you 
suspect  the  real  Ruth  Warrick  will  turn 
out  to  be  Mrs.  Bob  McNamara — in  her 
favorite  role  as  wife-and-mother.  But 
then  she  ushers  you  into  a  huge  studio 
living  room,  filled  with  antiques  and  fine 
old  furniture  .  .  .  and,  sitting  before  a 
ten -foot  fireplace  for  a  private  chat,  you're 
in  for  the  surprise  of  your  life.  For  of 
all  things,  Ruth  Warrick  turns  out  to  be 
a  philosopher.  She's  a  real  student — of 
life,  as  well  as  books — and  much  too  in- 
telligent, much  too  busy,  to  have  time  for 
off-stage  pretense.  She's  a  wife,  a  mother, 
an  actress,  but  she's  also  a  thinking  hu- 
man being.  The  real  Ruth  Warrick  is  like 
geometry:  The  whole  is  equal  to  the  sum 
of  all  its  parts. 

When  she  speaks  of  her  acting,  she 
refers  to  it  as  "communication."  And 
she  is  much  more  concerned  about  com- 
munication in  life  than  she  is  about  com- 
munication on  the  stage.  "The  greatest 
thing  in  human  existence  is  communica- 
tion," Ruth  claims,  "and  all  unhappiness 
is  the  inability  to  communicate." 

She  isn't  referring  to  the  means  of 
communication.  We  may  have  the  tele- 
phone, the  cable,  the  singing  telegram 
and  the  loud  speaker,  but  there  must 
still  be  someone  to  send  the  message — 
and  someone  else  to  receive  it.  All  our 
technological  progress  cannot  substitute 
for  the  art,  the  skill,  "the  feel,"  it  takes 
to  really  project  to  another  human  being — 
or  to  really  hear  with  your  heart  what 
someone  else  is  trying  to  say  to  you. 
T  Ruth  was  born  in  St.  Joseph,  Missouri, 
v  the  daughter  of  Frederick  Roswell  War- 
rick, Jr.,  and  Annie  Laurie  Scott.  Ruth 
laughs,  "You  think  that's  something? 
Wait  till  you  hear  my  aunt's  name.  Now 

„,  hold  your  hat!"  And  then  she  tells  you: 
74 


Bonnie.  "I  was  a  big  girl,"  Ruth  recalls, 
"before  I  knew  there  might  be  anything 
strange  about  their  names." 

If  their  names  were  Scotch,  so  was  their 
character,  and  Ruth  speaks  proudly  of 
her  Scotch  ancestry:  "Some  of  their 
opinions  may  seem  narrow-minded  to- 
day. But,  in  their  actions,  they  always 
came  through  with  honor  and  integrity. 
They  had  courage,  the  unostentatious 
kind.  And,  though  it  made  them  seem  a 
bit  reserved  at  times,  they  had  humility 
and  pride — both  in  the  same  breath."  It 
was  because  of  them,  Ruth  admits,  that 
"every  time  I  found  myself  in  a  spot, 
ready  to  throw  in  the  cards,  I'd  think  of 
them — and   then   I  couldn't." 

A  good  inheritance  for  an  actress  .  .  . 
except,  of  course,  that  the  Scott  sisters 
would  never  approve  of  any  "well- 
brought-up  lady"  being  an  actress.  "They 
were  a  little  on  the  Southern  side,"  Ruth 
says,  "my  mother  especially.  It  was  all 
right  to  sing,  however.  That  was  a  lady- 
like art."  Mrs.  Warrick  was  quite  a 
singer  herself.  In  fact,  she  had  once  been 
asked  to  sing  on  the  famed  Chautauqua 
Circuit.  "Naturally,  she  turned  it  down. 
It  was  something  ladies  just  didn't  do — 
on  the  stage.  .  .  .  Even  today  when  she 
learned  that  her  granddaughter  loved 
music,  she  said:  'How  nice  for  Karen  to 
have  music  for  a  hobby.'  Hobby?"  Ruth 
repeats.   "It's  my   daughter's   whole   life!" 

In  Ruth's  own  case,  the  "hobby"  started 
at  five,  when  her  father  took  her  to  see 
"Blossom  Time."  It  was  love  at  first  sight. 
She  knew  then  she  had  to  be  either  a 
great  actress  or  a  great  singer.  It  didn't 
matter  which,  just  so  she  could  stand  up 
there  on  the  stage — and  it  wasn't  till 
later  that  she  learned  the  verb  she 
wanted. 

1  he  verb  she  wanted  was  "communi- 
cate." It  meant  to  share  with  thousands 
of  people,  in  a  hushed  auditorium,  the 
feelings  you  could  no  longer  contain  with- 
in you.  Hushed  auditoriums,  however, 
are  not  always  available  to  young  girls  in 
St.  Joseph,  Missouri.  But  Ruth  had  to 
express  herself  ...  so,  until  the  day  she 
could  get  to  New  York,  she  decided  she 
would  be  a  great  writer.  She  majored  in 
English,  won  prizes  for  a  number  of 
essays  and  short  stories,  and  directed 
several    theatrical    sketches    at   school. 

One  of  these  sketches  was  about  Greta 
Garbo,  and  Ruth  had  written  it  herself. 
She  had  chosen  as  her  idol  a  supreme 
artist  of  communication  .  .  .  and,  naturally 
there,  was  no  girl  in  Ruth's  school  who 
could  impersonate  the  great  star  to  the 
director's  satisfaction.  It  ended  up  with 
Ruth  having  to  play  Garbo  herself. 

That  did  it!  Communicating  with  a 
sheet  of  blank  white  paper  in  the  type- 
writer was  nothing  compared  to  com- 
municating with  a  live  audience.  In 
spite  of  her  mother's  objections,  she  knew 
she  just  had  to  go  on  the  stage.  "My 
father  was  all  for  it,"  Ruth  recalls.  "He 
loved  the  theater.  Every  time  he  went  to 
New  York  on  business,  he  used  to  send 
me  the  music  from  the  latest  shows,  and 
clippings  about  my  favorite  stars." 

Although  she  was  determined  to  go  on 
the  stage,  she  still  hadn't  made  up  her 
mind  whether  to  be  a  singer  or  an  actress. 
"Today,"  Ruth  explains,  "they  expect  you 
to  be  both.  In  those  days,  however,  you 
had  to  be  one  or  the  other." 

During  her  senior  year  in  high  school, 
the  family  moved  to  Kansas  City,  where 
Ruth  became  active  with  the  Center 
Theater,  a  local  repertory  group.  The 
following  year,  at  the  University  of 
Kansas  City,  she  played  leads  in  a  number 


; 

nued 


of  school  productions.  She  also  continued 
with  her  singing.  She  appeared  in  college 
productions  of  Gilbert  and  Sullivan,  as 
well  as  on  the  local  radio  station. 

Then,  one  day,  she  just  made  up  her 
mind.  She  decided  to  be  an  actress 
rather  than  a  singer.  "I  knew  my  voice 
wasn't  great  enough,"  Ruth  admits.  Be- 
sides, she  had  discovered  an  exciting  new 
way  to  make  her  acting  more  expressive 
— more   communicative. 

Today,  thanks  to  the  popularity  of  such 
Actors'  Studio  graduates  as  Marlon  Bran- 
do, Montgomery  Clift,  and  Eva  Marie 
Saint,  there  is  a  lot  of  talk  about  "The 
Method."  (The  actor  prepares  for  his 
role,  not  only  by  studying  the  script,  but 
by  figuring  out  the  character's  life  be- 
fore the  curtain  goes  up.  Then,  when  he 
is  on  stage,  he  can  be  that  person,  living 
the  part,  rather  than  acting  it.  Students 
at  the  Actors'  Studio  are  asked  to  do 
exercises:  Eva  Marie  Saint  had  to  be 
a  weeping  willow  tree.  Marlon  Brando 
had  to  live  the  part  of  a  wax  statue  melt- 
ing in  the  sun.) 


But,  long  before  Elia  Kazan  and  Lee 
Strasberg  had  popularized  "The  Method," 
Ruth  had  devised  one  of  her  own.  "The 
important  thing  about  acting,"  she  says, 
"isn't  so  much  knowing  how  to  read  a 
line  as  knowing  who  the  character  is. 
That's  why  I  started  using  what  I  knew 
as  a  writer  to  help  my  performances  on 
the  stage.  I  would  write  out  the  complete 
story  of  the  character  I  was  to  play  .  .  . 
background,    history,    habits — everything." 

Reminded  that  this  is  like  "The  Method," 
she  says:  "I  worked  it  out  all  by  myself. 
Besides,"  she  laughs,  "I  agree  with  Orson 
Welles.  He  never  said  you  had  to  make 
like  a  tea  kettle  in  order  to  make  like 
a  person."  But  she  might  never  have  met 
Orson  Welles  ...  if  Fate  hadn't  taken  a 
hand  in  her  affairs.  Kansas  City  decided 
to  have  a  "Jubilesta" — a  fall  festival  to 
attract  visitors  to  its  city. 

"A  man  I  had  worked  with  at  the 
Center  Theater,"  Ruth  recalls,  "happened 
to  be  directing  the  Jubilesta.  He  called 
me  up  and  asked  me  to  come  down.  He 
thought  I  could  be  Miss  Jubilesta.  I  said 
no.  I  could  just  see  my  family  if  I  ever 
tried  out  to  be  a  beauty  queen.  'But  it's 
not  that,'  my  friend  insisted.  It's  not  a 
gag.  It's  a  job.  Thirty-five  dollars  a  week, 
and  all  the  clothes  you  can  wear." 

Ruth  was  chosen  Miss  Jubilesta,  and 
toured  the  Midwest,  inviting  people  to 
the  Jubilesta  and  recording  interviews 
which  were  later  broadcast  on  the  radio 
station  in  Kansas  City.  But  she  ended  up 
where  she  wanted  to  be — in  New  York 
City  .  .  .  with  "all  the  clothes  she  could 
wear,"  a  return-trip  ticket  she  was  de- 
termined not  to  use,  and  thirty-five 
dollars  she  had  saved  from  her  job.  The 
train  ticket  was  part  of  her  prize  as  Miss 
Jubilesta.  It  was  also  the  one  thing  which 
made  her  family  change  their  attitude 
about  acting.  They  couldn't  very  well  stop 
her  from  going  to  New  York  when  she 
had  a  ticket. 

Ruth's  one  regret  was  leaving  the  Uni- 
versity of  Kansas  City  .  .  .  but  the  presi- 
dent, a  friend  of  the  family,  told  her: 
"Ruth,  if  you  were  like  the  majority  of 
my  students,  I  would  hesitate  and  try  to 
dissuade  you  from  leaving.  I  have  a  feel- 
ing, however,  that  you  are  one  of  those 
persons  who  won't  stop  their  education 
just  because  they're  leaving  school."  She 
hasn't.  To  this  day,  she  confesses  to  "run- 
ning a  temperature  just  walking  through 
the  door  of  a  library.  I  am  transported, 
any  time  I  find  a  new  subject — a  new  field 
to  explore."  And  Ruth,  with  her  goal  of 


I 


being  a  well-rounded  person,  has  ex- 
plored most  of  them. 

But,  before  she  was  finished  with  her 
job  for  Kansas  City,  she  had  one  last 
assignment  as  Miss  Jubilesta.  She  had  to 
walk  up  the  steps  of  New  York's  City 
Hall  carrying  "a  live  and  kicking  thirty- 
five-pound  turkey"  and  present  it  to 
Mayor  La  Guardia.  "It  was  the  hardest 
job   I  ever  did,"   says   Ruth. 

In  retrospect,  however,  it  seemed  easy 
compared  with  the  job  of  breaking  into 
radio.  "You  just  stand  in  the  halls,"  she 
recalls,  "and  you  wait.  It's  the  test  of 
fire.  You  hear  the  statistics.  They  tell  you 
you  haven't  a  chance.  It  only  makes  you 
more  determined.  It  isn't  because  you 
think  you're  better  than  the  others,  it's 
because  you're  you.  And  so,  you  keep 
standing  in  the  halls."  (This  was  one  of 
the  times  when  Ruth  was  tempted  to 
"throw  in  the  cards."  But  Scotch  deter- 
mination kept  her  from  returning  home.) 

"And  then,  one  day,"  Ruth  continues, 
"someone  gives  you  two  lines  to  do — 
maybe  because  he  thinks  you're  at- 
tractive. You  do  the  two  lines.  You  don't 
goof.  And  it  goes  from  there.  You  become 
a  member  of  the  union.  And  you  find  that, 
once  someone  uses  you,  you've  passed 
the  test.  They   all  start  using  you." 

Ruth  appeared  in  network  radio  on 
Joyce  Jordan  and  Grand  Central  Station, 
then  moved  on  to  Aunt  Jenny  for  her 
first  real  success.  She  acted  in  a  Broad- 
way play  that  ran  two  nights.  .  .  .  and  now 
the  scene  changes  to  Hollywood,  where 
Orson  Welles — in  most  ungentlemanly 
fashion — kept  insisting  he  couldn't  find 
any  "real  ladies."  ("That's  where  my 
mother  comes  in,"  Ruth  says,  thanking 
her  for  the  training.)  Ruth  was  sent  for, 
and  went  to  Hollywood  to  test  for  the 
role  of  the  wife  in  "Citizen  Kane." 

"It  was  a  wonderful  break,"  she  re- 
calls, "and  I  was  terribly  nervous.  But 
you  should  have  seen  Orson!  He  had 
been  on  the  lot  two  years  without  mak- 
ing a  single  picture.  This  was  his  first 
day  of  shooting,  so  all  the  big  brass  came 
down  to  watch  on  the  sidelines.  I  was 
trying  so  hard  to  keep  him  from  being 
nervous  that  I  forgot  about  myself  and 
settled  down."  As  it  turned  out,  she  set- 
tled down  with  the  coveted  role  and  a 
seven-year  contract  at  RKO.  During  the 
next  ten  years,  she  appeared  in  more  than 
thirty   motion   pictures. 

In  1952,  Ruth  returned  to  New  York 
to  do  a  play,  but  it  closed  in  Philadelphia. 
Then  she  turned  to  live  television,  which 
excited  her.  She  finds  it  much  closer  to 
the  stage  than  to  motion  pictures.  And 
as  for  communication — television  is  the 
greatest  opportunity  in  the  history  of 
the  world! 

She  starred  in  Robert  Montgomery  Pre- 
sents, Studio  One,  Lux  Theater.  And  then 
she  took  over  the  role  of  Janet  in  the 
popular  daytime  drama,  The  Guiding 
Light.  She  had  had  recognition  as  a  mo- 
tion-picture star,  but  never  anything  like 
this!  When  she  left  the  show,  strangers 
stopped  her  in  the  street  to  scold  her: 
What  did  she  mean,  leaving  The  Guiding 
Light? 

All  she  meant  was  .  .  .  she  was  having 
a  baby.  For  a  woman,  it  is  the  ultimate 
communication  with  life.  She  never  meant 
to  return  to  acting  again.  .  .  . 

Ruth  can  tell  you  exactly  how  she  met 
Bob  McNamara,  a  television  executive: 
"A  girl  friend  of  mine,  whose  husband 
works  in  the  same  company  as  Bob, 
used  to  use  him  as  a  bachelor  to  'fill  in' 
at  her  dinner  parties."  Ruth  pauses,  and 
you  gather  that  she  was  asked  to  one  of 
those  dinner  parties.  "She  was  quite 
chagrined  when  I  took  him  off  her  list." 

She  must  also  have  been  surprised,  for 


no  two  persons  could  be  more  unalike. 
Ruth  has  a  strong  sense  of  duty,  so  that 
her  Scotch  conscience  must  be  a  battle- 
ground of  conflicting  loyalties — to  hus- 
band, to  children,  to  self,  to  career.  Bob, 
on  the  other  hand,  prides  himself  on 
being  "the  real  ham  in  the  family."  He  is 
also  one  of  the  few  living  soft-shoe 
artists  -left,  and  likes  to  demonstrate  this 
at  parties.  In  fact,  he  likes  nothing  better 
than  a  party,  and  the  McNamara's  throw 
one  frequently.  (Particularly  on  St. 
Patrick's  Day.  That's  the  big  night  at 
Bob's  house,   not  New  Year's   Eve.) 

A  friend,  thinking  of  Dale  Carnegie's 
popular  book,  once  suggested  that  there 
ought  to  be  a  special  book  for  Bob  called 
"How  To  Stop  Living  and  Start  Worry- 
ing." But  the  nurse  who  came  from  the 
hospital  with  Ruth,  to  help  with  the  baby, 
paid  Bob  a  much  kinder  tribute.  All  the 
time  that  she  lived  in  the  house,  it  never 
occurred  to  her  that  Karen  and  Jon — 
the  two  older  children — are  not  Bob  Mc- 
Namara's own.  She  never  knew  that  they 
were  Ruth's  children  by  her  former  mar- 
riage to  Eric  Rolf. 

Ruth  herself  finds — and  she  passes  it 
along  to  other  girls:  "A  man  who  can 
laugh  and  have  fun  makes  a  much  better 
husband  than  the  serious  type.  He  doesn't 
look  for  his  lighter  moments  elsewhere. 
He  has  his  fun  right  at  home." 

And  they  do  have  fun.  The  most  promi- 
nent spot  in  the  living  room  is  taken  up  by 
a  set  of  drums,  for  Bob  has  organized  Mc- 
Namara's Band — which  is  ready  to  play 
your  favorite  request  number  at  any  time 
of  night  or  day,  even  if  you  don't  request 
it.  Bob  plays  the  drums,  Karen  the  clari- 
net, Jon  the  trombone,  and  Ruth  a  bad 
but  "enthusiastic"  piano.  There's  trouble 
brewing,,  though.  Baby  Tim  not  only  in- 
herits his  father's  "ham" — he  wants  to  take 
over  the  playing  of  the   drums. 

He  was  fifteen  months  old  when  Ruth 
received  the  offer  to  play  the  role  of 
Edith  Hughes  in  As  The  World  Turns.  It 
seems  so  simple.  The  baby  was  old  enough 
to  spare  her  a  few  times  a  week.  And  yet, 
Ruth  admits,  she  went  through  agonies 
of  indecision  before  she  finally  took  the 
role:  "I  make  myself  suffer.  No  one  else 
fights  me.  I  keep  asking  myself:  'Do  I 
have  a  right  to  be  an  actress?'  And  then 
I  get  sick.  It  was  the  doctor  who  advised 
me  to  go  back  to  work.  'You're  no  good 
to  your  family  this  way,'  he  pointed  out." 
And  Bob,  who's  quite  a  communicator  in 
his  own  right,  simply  said  to  her:  "Hey, 
why  don't  you  relax?" 

But  she  had  never  relaxed  in  her  life. 
Here  she  was,  still  a  young  woman,  and 
she  wasn't  doing  anything  with  her  life. 
She  remembered  her  grandfather — on  the 
Scotch  side.  He  went  bankrupt  at  sixty- 
three,  but  he  started  up  again.  What's 
more,  he  ran  a  successful  business  until  he 
was  eighty-three. 

That  was  when  Ruth  got  out  of  bed, 
grabbed  the  phone,  and  said:  "I'll  take  the 
part."  She  realized,  "I'm  no  good  as  a 
mother,   unless   I'm  a  whole  person." 

For  those  who  must  communicate, 
there's  no  stopping  place.  For  those  who 
are  blessed  with  searching  minds  and  feel- 
ing hearts,  life  is  always  a  continual  striv- 
ing rather  than  a  permanent  achievement. 
That's  Ruth  Warrick  McNamara's 
strength!  She  has  not  settled  for  being  any 
one  of  her  parts  but  for  being  all  of  them. 
Today,  she  is  truly  a  complete  person. 

What's  more,  if  you  want  to  know  what 
"communication"  really  means,  watch  her 
on  As  The  World  Turns.  Story-wise,  she 
must  know  that  Edith  Hughes  is  neither 
heroine  nor  saint.  But  Ruth  doesn't  play 
her  as  a  villainess,  either.  Ruth  plays  her 
like  a  human  being  ...  a  complete  human 
being. 


Make*50-*75-*100 

AGAIN  AND  AGAIN 


SHOW  FRIENDS 


HEW  TYPE 

Christmas  and  All  Occasion 

GREETING  CARD  .  ^ 


folks  are  wild  about 


New  195S 

4-STYIE 

CHRISTMAS  CARD 

ASSORTMENT- 

24  Tall  Slim,  Oblong  Slim 

Square  and  Petite  Cards 

all  in  1  box 


New 19S6 

Christmas  Assortment  of 

VELVET  EMBOSSED 

SLIM  CARDS 


168  Easy  Ways  To  Make 

EXTRA  MONEY 


New  1956 

Assortment  of 

TALL 
HUMOROUS 
SPARKLING 

Christmas  Cards 


SLIM  CARDS  WITH 
GOLD  &  SILVER 
MESH  INSERTS 

Guaranteed  by   *> 
i  Good  Housekeeping 


New  1956 

ALL  OCCASION 

Assortment  of 

TALL 

PARCHMENT 

CARDS 


74SAMPLES 

Name  Imprinted 

Christmas  Cards,  Stationery 
just  for  writing  us! 


SELL  AMAZING  VALUES 

Just  take  easy  orders  in  spare 
time.  New  ideas  in  greeting 
card   boxed   assortments,   gift 

-   -  \  wrappings,  home  &  gift  items, 

Se?me„rriSntnearTV exclusive  50  for  $1.50  Per- 
sonal  Christmas  Cards  bring 
profits  to  100%plus  cash  bonus. 


Start  a  Greeting  Card  &  Gift  Shop  At  Home 
FREE  Full  Color  Illustrated  Catalog 


MAKE   FRIENDLY  SOCIAL  CALLS 

Show  women's,  children's,  men's  novelties.  Have 
cash  for  new  clothes,  furnishings,  your  group 
treasury.    No    experience    needed.    It's    easy-fun! 


NEW  FUND  RAISING  and  PARTY  PLANS 
Make  up  to  $1.00  per  box! 


ONE  MONEY  MAKER  SAYS: 

*'I  have  been  selling  your  cards  for  almost 
two  years  and  I  have  made  enough  money 
to  buy  a  lot  of  things  I  have  wanted." 

— Diane   Carey  of  Illinois 


Write  today  for  FREE  TRIAL  Outfit  of 
EVERYTHING  YOU  NEED  to  gel  started 


SEND  NO  MONEY 

Rush  name  and  address  for  Fea- 
ture boxes  on  approval.  If  out- 
fit does  not  make  money  for  you 
in  a  jiffy,  return  it  at  our  expense. 

New    England    Art    Publishers 

North    Abington    921*    Mass. 

■■HHMail  Coupon  Nowm  ! 

■NEW   ENGLAND  ART  PUBLISHERS 
I  North  Abington  921,  Mass. 

I  Please  send  me  at  once  Feature  assort- 
ments on  approval,  free  samples  Per- 
I  sonal  Christmas  Cards,  Stationery,  free 
Catalog,  Selling;  Guide  and  details  of 
your  wonderful  extra  money  plan. 

I   Name _ 


FREE 

'Money. Making  Guid 
shows  beginners  net 
easy  ways  to  succeed^ 


City- 


□ 


Check  here  if  writing;  for  club  or  church 
organization  interested  in  raising;  funds. 


Lai.  No  Risk  On  Your  Part ...  J 


75 


(Continued  from  page  54) 
around  his  now-broad  shoulders,  Myron 
once  again  stood  on  stage  in  front  of 
family  and  old  friends  there  to  celebrate 
the  hero's  homecoming.  A  great  deal  had 
transpired  in  the  twenty-five  years:  Web- 
ster had  built  a  new  3,500-seat  auditor- 
ium (now  packed) ;  the  flaxen-haired 
eleven-year-old  had  grown  up  to  become 
one  of  the  nation's  leading  accordionists; 
and  he  was  being  signally  honored  by 
Webster's  City  Council,  who  had  declared 
this  "Myron  Floren  Day."  At  the  end  of 
his  concert,  looking  into  the  sea  of  smil- 
ing faces  and  rocked  by  the  waves  of 
cheering  applause,  Myron  realized  that 
perseverance   really   does   pay   off. 

Perseverance  has  been  the  key  to 
Myron's  own  success,  ever  since  his  in- 
terest in  music  developed  on  his  parents' 
farm  more  than  thirty  years  ago.  At  five, 
he  cut  pictures  of  various  musical  instru- 
ments out  of  the  mail-order  catalogues,  a 
pastime  which  was  frustrating  to  his 
parents  but  which  sparked  a  musical  in-" 
terest  that  has  only  grown  through  the 
years.  "Today,"  says  his  lovely  wife 
Berdyne,  "music  is  as  much  a  part  of  his 
life  as  breathing.  It's  never  out  of  his 
mind.  At  the  dinner  table,  he  hums  and 
whistles  original  phrases.  He  eats  with 
his  accordion  beside  him  and,  during  a 
meal,    he    will   pick    out    a    new    melody. 

"When  Myron  has  the  time  to  read,  he 
always  turns  to  the  music  section  first. 
But  he  seldom  has  such  leisure  time. 
Myron  is  working  on  a  new  'accordion 
method'  to  be  published  by  Music  Pub- 
lishers of  New  York  in  four  volumes.  So 
his  summer,  all  his  free  time,  is  taken  up 
by  that.  And  there's  always  the  practic- 
ing! Just  because  Myron  has  'arrived,' 
so  to  speak,  he  hasn't  given  up  constant 
practice.  Not  for  a  moment — in  fact,  he 
feels  more  obligated  to  the  accordion  now 
than  ever  before.  Meanwhile,  of  course, 
he  plays  five  hours  a  night  at  the  Aragon 
Ballroom,  and  frequently  three  and  four 
hours  more  in  recording  sessions! 

"He  is  happiest  when  he  is  playing  for 
people,"  Berdyne  smiles.  "Myron  has  al- 
ways felt  that  the  reason  for  music's  ex- 
istence was  to  make  people  happy.  He 
lives  this  belief  by  being  so  generous 
with  his  time  and  talent.  I've  seen  him 
come  in  dead  tired  from  a  recording  ses- 
sion— after  playing  the  night  before  until 
2  A.  M. — only  to  turn  around  again  and 
go  out  on  a  benefit." 

JVLyron's  special  interest  in  accordions 
developed  as  a  result  of  the  local  square 
dancing  parties  held  in  his  home  town. 
"One  of  our  neighbors,"  says  Myron, 
"played  an  old-fashioned  accordion.  As 
a  six-year-old,  I  was  amazed  that  he 
could  get  such  wonderful  music  from  a 
lopsided  box  by  pushing  buttons."  The 
neighbor  showed  Myron  how  the  magic 
box  worked,  inviting  him  to  play  a  waltz. 
Myron  picked  up  the  instrument,  pushed 
the  buttons  the  neighbor  pointed  out,  and 
was  amazed  to  find  the  audience  dancing 
to  his  music!  At  that  moment,  six-year- 
old  Myron  knew  that  someday  he  would 
be  an  accordionist,  too. 

"Every  day  of  the  next  week,"  Myron 
recalls,  "I  waited  for  the  mailman  to 
bring  the  Sears  Roebuck  catalogue  so  I 
could  peek  at  a  picture  of  the  newest 
accordion.  When  the  catalogue  finally 
came,  I  showed  the  picture  to  my  dad, 
saying,  'Look!     It  only  costs  $19.06! ' " 

T  Myron's  parents  had  a  diversified  farm, 
raising  wheat,  barley  and  oats,  so  that 
they  never  depended  on  any  one  main 
crop.  As  a  result  of  this  diversification, 
there  were  plenty  of  chores  for  Myron, 
the   eldest   of  three   boys   and   four   girls. 

76 


"Push  Button  Magic" 

He  worked  in  the  fields  year  'round, 
milked  cows,  cleaned  barns,  mowed  and 
stacked    hay. 

"After  that  square  dance,"  Myron  says 
with  a  smile,  "I  pestered  my  dad  for 
months  for  an  accordion  of  my  own.  Dad 
promised  he'd  buy  it  for  me  if  I  put  in 
a  little  extra  work  around  the  farm.  I 
cleaned  the  barn  three  times  that  same 
afternoon  before  he  realized  what  was 
going   on." 

In  defense  of  the  barn,  Myron's  father 
finally  bought  the  accordion,  paying  ten 
percent  down  and  fifty  cents  a  week. 
From  the  day  the  1927-model  Hohner 
accordion  arrived  from  Sears,  it  was 
Myron's  constant  companion.  "There 
never  was  any  problem  getting  me  to 
practice,"  he  says.  "The  problem  was  to 
get  me  to  stop  practicing  long  enough  to 
do  something  else.  If  company  came,  I'd 
say  my  hellos — then  sneak  off  to  the  bed- 
room to  practice.  When  the  family  were 
all  in  bed,  I  sometimes  sat  up  until  2  A.M., 
playing  on  a  silent  keyboard." 

Myron  never  took  a  lesson  on  the  ac- 
cordion. He  had  ten  piano  lessons  in 
high  school,  but  that  was  the  extent  of 
his  formal  training.  Instead,  he  depended 
on  constant  practice  to  make  up  for  his 
lack  of  formal  musical  education,  and 
played  whenever  opportunity  presented 
itself.  In  the  mornings  at  school,  he  went 
from  room  to  room,  playing  "Good  Morn- 
ing, Dear  Teacher."  Afternoons  and  eve- 
nings, he  played  for  school  dances 
(square  dances  and  polkas).  Weekends 
were  spent  at  church  socials  and  in  holi- 
day season,  Myron  led  the  Christmas 
carols. 

1  he  first  Hohner  accordion  Myron's 
father  bought  for  him  lasted  until  he  was 
a  junior  in  high  school.  (On  a  recent 
personal  appearance  tour  with  the  Welk 
band  through  South  Dakota,  Myron 
asked  all  of  his  old  friends  if  they  knew 
what  became  of  the  instrument.  The 
young  man  he  gave  it  to  had  in  turn  sold 
it  to  someone  else.  About  a  month  ago, 
Myron  received  the  accordion  by  mail 
with  a  note  offering  to  exchange  it  for 
some  of  his  45  RPM  records.  Myron 
sent  a  score  of  records  post  haste.) 

Myron  made  great  music  with  that  old 
Hohner,  but  eventually  he  had  his  heart 
set  on  a  new  piano-accordion.  The  prob- 
lem was  that  they  were  so  expensive. 
Then  his  father  was  elected  Treasurer  of 
Day  County,  and  he  could  finally  afford 
the  new  instrument.  However,  Cook's 
Music  Store  in  Webster  didn't  carry  the 
piano-accordion.  It  had  to  be  ordered 
specially.  After  the  election,  Myron's 
family  moved  into  Webster  but  he  stayed 
on  at  the  school  dormitory  in  Rosslyn. 
One  day,  in  the  middle  of  winter,  Mr. 
Cook  sent  a  note  advising  Myron  that  the 
new  model  had  arrived.  Myron  was  so 
excited  he  walked  fifteen  miles  through 
the  snow  to  pick  it  up. 

After  starting  Augustana  College  in 
Sioux  Falls,  South  Dakota,  Myron — with 
new  piano-accordion  in  hand — approached 
Morton  Henkin,  manager  of  radio  station 
KSSO,  for  a  job.  "I  just  walked  in  and 
played  for  the  first  man  I  saw  behind  a 
desk,"  says  Myron  blandly,  "and  told  him 
I'd  like  to  go  on  the  radio."  At  that  time, 
there  were  no  live  shows  on  the  station. 
But  Mr.  Henkin  liked  Myron's  playing, 
and  offered  him  the  station's  morning- 
opening  spot  at  forty  dollars  a  month. 

Myron's  first  show  was  called  Nickel 
Harness  Time,  and  it  went  on  at  6:45 
A.  M.  He  played  requests — mostly  polkas 
and  waltzes — and  made  dedications.  In 
describing  that  first  show,  Myron  says,  "I 
got  up  before  6  A.  M.  in  order  to  catch  the 


first  bus  from  the  college  into  town.  To 
warm  up,  I  played  the  bus  driver's  re- 
quests on  our  way  in." 

About  this  time,  Myron  began  teaching 
the  accordion  at  Williams'  Piano  Store  in 
Sioux  Falls.  Mr.  Williams  had  hired  a 
number  of  salesmen  who  went  door-to- 
door,  selling  accordions.  Buyers  received 
ten  lessons  free.  Fourteen-year-old  Ber- 
dyne Koerner  was  the  only  girl  in  a  class 
of  two  dozen  boys.  Says  Berdyne  (now 
Mrs.  Myron  Floren) ,  "The  first  day  I  saw 
Myron,  I  was  attracted  by  his  gentleness. 
Besides  that,  he  was  very  nice  looking, 
with  dark  blond  hair  and  deep  blue  eyes. 
But  he  was  painfully  shy." 

Berdyne  took  lessons  for  two  years.  But 
it  wasn't  until  after  this  series  of  lessons 
that  she  and  Myron  began  to  date.  "I 
thought  Myron  was  wonderful,"  she  says 
now,  with  a  smile,  "and  I  tried  to  let  my 
thoughts  be  known  to  him.  Though  he 
was  wonderfully  patient  with  his  lessons, 
for  two  years,  I  never  got  a  reaction  out 
of  him.  At  first,  I  thought  he  didn't  notice 
me.    Then  I  realized  it  was  just  shyness. 

"Later,  when  we  were  with  Mr.  Welk 
in  Denver,  Colorado,  Mr.  Welk  told  me 
that  Myron's  shy  way  was  good  for  him. 
'We  played  for  a  ladies'  group  at  Elitch's 
Gardens  this  afternoon,'  he  said,  'and  the 
shyness  came  out  of  Myron's  eyes  like 
the  music  out  of  his  accordion — the  la- 
dies just  loved  him  for  it!' 

"My  parents  thought  Myron  was  won- 
derful— though,  when  we  first  started  dat- 
ing, I  frequently  still  went  out  with  other 
young  men  in  town.  After  meeting 
Myron,  my  father  tried  to  discourage 
these  other  boys.  He  considered  Myron 
far  and  away  better  than  any  of  the 
others  who  came  around,  and  couldn't 
understand  how  I  could  be  so  foolish. 
'You'll  see,'  I  told  Father,  'there  is  method 
in  my  madness.'  It  wasn't  long  before  a 
wee  bit  of  jealousy  overcame  Myron's 
shyness — and  he  popped   the   question." 

Berdyne  was  eighteen  and  Myron  twenty - 
three  when  they  became  engaged. 
They  made  the  announcement  in  1944, 
during  the  period  when  all  headlines 
were  proclaiming  the  imminent  downfall 
of  England  because  of  Germany's  buzz- 
bomb  attacks.  Myron,  having  suffered 
with  rheumatic  fever  as  a  child,  had  been 
eager  to  enlist  at  the  beginning  of  the 
war,  but  had  been  declared  4F  because  of 
the    resulting    rheumatic    heart    murmur. 

However,  in  spite  of  the  heart  murmur, 
the  continued  bad  news  from  the  front 
made  Myron  more  determined  than  ever 
to  serve  in  some  capacity.  In  1944,  he 
was  finally  assigned  to  Special  Services 
and  was  sent  overseas  to  perform  in  camp 
shows.  He  was  in  London  for  a  week  dur- 
ing the  heaviest  buzz-bomb  period.  Just 
a  week  after  D-Day,  he  followed  the  in- 
vasion troops  into  France,  where  he 
joined  the  Hank  Ladd  Show  touring  and 
entertaining  along  the  front  lines. 

While  Myron  was  in  Europe,  he  and 
Berdyne  wrote  each  other  every  day.  In 
July,  1945,  when  the  war  ended  in  Europe, 
he  returned  home.  And,  on  August  19, 
Myron  and  Berdyne  were  married  in 
Sioux'  First  Lutheran  Church.  Berdyne 
says  proudly,  "There  were  four  hundred 
guests."  Myron  adds,  "But  I  was  so  ex- 
cited I  can't  remember  one! 

"After  the  reception,"  he  continues, 
"Berdyne  and  I  left  on  our  honeymoon  for 
Greenlake,  Minnesota.  In  the  car,  Ber- 
dyne kept  reminding  me  to  just  act  na- 
tural. She  kept  saying,  'Remember,  when 
we  register  at  the  hotel,  please  don't  act 
like  we  are  newlyweds.  I  know  they  will 
rib  us  something  awful!' 

"We    couldn't    drive    too    fast    on    the 


smooth  old  war  tires.  So,  by  the  time  we 
got  to  Pipestone,  Minnesota — our  first 
stop — I  was  just  bursting  with  the  news. 
As  I  signed  our  names,  the  first  thing  I 
said  to  the  hotel  clerk  was:  'We've  just 
gotten  married!' " 

After  a  two-week  honeymoon,  Berdyne 
and  Myron  returned  to  Sioux  Falls, 
where  the  bride  worked  in  Jean's  Ready- 
To-Wear  Store  and  the  bridegroom  went 
back  to  six  shows  a  day  at  Station  KSSO. 
"We  lived  in  a  three-room  apartment," 
says  Myron,  "at  what  I  considered  the 
extravagant  price  of  forty-five  a  month!" 

At  the  end  of  a  year,  Myron  was  called 
to  fill  in  as  band  accordionist  at  the 
Sioux  Empire  Fair.  The  band  was  agented 
by  renowned  showman  Joe  Howard,  au- 
thor of  many  of  our  country's  best-loved 
songs,  including  the  old  favorite,  "The 
Band  Played  On."  Howard  was  impressed 
with  Myron's  easy  ability  and  shortly 
thereafter  signed  him  to  a  better  spot 
with  a  hillbilly  outfit  called  the  "Buck- 
eye Four,"  in   St.  Louis,  Missouri. 

"When  we  moved  to  St.  Louis,"  Ber- 
dyne recalls  "we  lived  in  a  sleeping  room 
in  Richmond  Heights.  In  accepting  the 
opportunity  to  move  on,  Myron  had  to 
sacrifice  some  of  his  income — and  I,  of 
course,  had  to  give  up  my  job  at  Jean's. 

But  Myron  was  willing  to  make  the 
sacrifice  because  the  change  brought  him 
a  step  closer  to  his  goal.  Because  of  the 
move,  we  were  sometimes  in  debt,  in 
those  days.  But  Myron  is  a  good  man- 
ager, financially.  There  were  times  when 
we  had  to  watch  carefully  how  we  spent 
our  money,  and  we  frequently  went  with- 
out things  we  needed. 

"Through  it  all,  though,  Myron's  atti- 
tude was  always  optimistic.  We  have 
been  married  eleven  years  now  and  I 
have  never  seen  him  depressed.  I  some- 
times felt  discouraged,  but  Myron  always 
cheered  me  up  by  saying,  'If  we  just  keep 
working  along  steadily,  everything  will 
work  out.' 

"After  the  first  year,"  Berdyne  con- 
tinues, "in  addition  to  his  Buckeye  Four 
job,  Myron  also  worked  at  Station  KWK 
in  St.  Louis,  and  we  were  soon  well 
enough  off  to  move  into  a  trailer  in  near- 
by Overland,  a  suburb  of  St.  Louis.  The 
trailer  was  set  up  on  blocks  in  a  grove 
of  big  oak  trees.  Water  was  piped  in,  and 
after  a  few  weeks  Myron  built  a  porch. 
Our  home  was  only  twenty-six  feet  long 
and  had  wheels,  but  it  also  had  a  won- 
derful feeling  of  permanency. 

"When  our  first  baby,  Randy  Lee,  was 
born,  Myron  took  the  bed  out  of  the  back 
bedroom,  put  in  a  crib  and  made  it  over 
into  the  coziest  little  nursery  you  have 
ever  seen.  And,  when  the  baby  was  a 
few  months  old,  we  bought  a  car,  drove  to 
the  park  on  Sundays  for  a  picnic,  even 
spent  an  infrequent  weekend  in  the 
Ozarks.  Myron  often  said,  'It's  not  neces- 
sary to  live  in  a  town  house,  you  can  be 
just  as  happy  in  a  trailer.' " 

The  three-and-a-half  years  of  happy 
trailer  life  were  interrupted  when  Law- 
rence Welk  came  to  St.  Louis.  Myron 
had  again  added  accordion  teaching  to  his 
list  of  chores  and  was  head  of  the  accord- 
ion department  at  Ludwig's  Music  Com- 
pany when  Lawrence  came  in  one  day 
looking  for  some  new  polkas. 

"Myron  had  sat  in  with  the  band  sev- 
eral times  before,"  Lawrence  remembers, 
"when  we  were  traveling  through  South 
Dakota.  He  was  fresh  off  the  farm  then 
and  still  had  quite  a  bit  to  learn.  But 
when  I  heard  him  play  these  new  polkas 
— which  by  the  way,  he  had  written — I 
was  amazed  at  his  ability  and  technical 
perfection.  I  asked  him^  'It  usually  takes 
years  to  become  such  a  master  of  the 
accordion,  Myron — where  did  you  learn 
to  play  like  that?'  He  replied,  'Mr.  Welk, 


since  I  last  played  for  you,  I've  practiced 
nine  hours  each  day.' " 

Mr.  Welk  invited  Myron  and  his  wife 
to  be  his  guests  that  evening  at  the  Chase 
Hotel's  Casa  Loma  Ballroom.  He  also  sug- 
gested that  Myron  bring  his  accordion 
along.  The  idea  that  he  would  ultimately 
join  the  Welk  band  had  never  entered 
Myron's  mind.  So,  that  night,  when  Mr. 
Welk  again  invited  him  to  sit  in  with 
the  band,  Myron  was  completely  unpre- 
pared for  the  consequences.  At  first,  he 
simply  played  along  with  the  group,  go- 
ing from  one  number  in  the  book  to  an- 
other. Then  Welk  asked  Myron  to  play 
a  solo.  He  stood  up,  walked  to  the  front 
stage  microphone  and,  adjusting  his  ac- 
cordion, launched  into  the  technically 
difficult  "Lady  of  Spain."  Welk  was  pre- 
pared for  the  brilliantly  executed  per- 
formance, but  neither  he  nor  Myron  were 
prepared  for  the  crowd's  tremendously 
enthusiastic  response.  "Myron  had  be- 
come an  accordion  virtuoso,"  says  Welk, 
"and  the  crowd  would  not  let  him  off." 

Mr.  Welk  has  always  felt  that  his  audi- 
ence knew  what  it  wanted.  He  decided 
then  and  there,  that,  if  they  wanted 
Myron  Floren's  music,  he  would  try  to 
deliver  it  to  them.  After  the  encore — and 
after  the  crowd  let  Myron  sit  down — 
Welk  asked,  "Myron,  what  would  you  say 
if  I  were  to  offer  you  a  job  with  the 
band?" 

Myron  looked  at  Mr.  Welk  for  a  sur- 
prised moment,  then  promptly  said,  "I'd 
accept  it  right  away!" 

Arrangements  were  made  for  Myron 
and  Berdyne  to  join  Welk's  band  the  fol- 
lowing month  in  Denver,  Colorado.  -Some 
of  the  band  members  did  not  think  it 
was  too  good  an  idea  to  have  such  a 
technically  perfect  accordionist  as  Myron 
in  the  band.  "They  were  afraid,"  Mr. 
Welk  remembers,  "that  Myron  would 
make  my  playing  look  bad  by  compari- 
son.    It's  possible  they  were  right." 

Welk  smiles  and  continues,  "There  was 
also,  at  first,  a  certain  amount  of  jealousy 
on  the  band's  part  because,  when  Myron 
did  his  solos,  he  always  received  greater 
applause  than  anyone  else.  But  Myron 
never  reacted  to  the  jealousy — nothing 
ever  angered  him.  He's  an  example  both 
to  the  band  members  and  to  me.  He  goes 
through  life  doing  good.  He  has  nothing 
but  friends.  If  we  would  all  live  like 
Myron,  the  world  would  be  a  wonderful 
place.  I  said  to  my  wife  just  this  morn- 
ing, 'Fern,  you  know  Myron  is  looking 
for  a  new  house.  I  wish  we  had  a  vacant 
lot  close  by  so  that  we  could  have  him 
near — I'd  like  to  think  of  him  as  a  son." 

Today — in  addition  to  Mr.  Welk's  warm 
feeling  for  him — Myron  is  proud  that  his 
perseverance  has  also  paid  off  in  the  re- 
spect of  every  member  of  the  band  and 
the  admiration  of  hundreds  of  thousands 
of  ardent  fans  who  eagerly  wait  for  each 
of  his  new  choral  recordings.  But  even 
more  important,  Myron  has  the  love  and 
adoration  of  his  family,  now  grown  to 
three  girls — Randy  Lee,  6,  Kristie  Ann,  4, 
and  taffy-haired  Robin  Gay,  2.  These 
lovely  young  ladies  are  the  real  pride  of 
his  life.  Each  day,  when  he  returns  from 
work,  they  rush  up  to  him  with  gleeful 
shouts:  "Daddy's  home!"  Whereupon 
Myron  scoops  them  up  in  his  muscular 
accordion-strengthened  arms,  and  plants 
a  great  welcome  home  kiss  on  each  glow- 
ing cheek.  Though  he  rightfully  can  be 
proud  of  his  long  struggle  for  recognition 
and  success,  Myron  is  still  more  proud  of 
the  three  happy  children  dancing  around 
him.  "These  children,"  he  says,  pointing 
to  them  with  fatherly  pride  and  the  in- 
born tenderness  which  first  attracted  his 
wife,  Berdyne,  "these  children  and  their 
happiness — that  is  something  every  man 
should  be  willing  to  work  for,  not  for  just 
twenty-five  years,  but  forever." 


Now  you  can  look  smart  and 
'stylish  with  sensational  low 
priced  glamorous  dresses  that 
have  been  cleaned  and  pressed 
—  in  good  condition  for  all  oc- 
casions! A  tremendous  assort- 
ment of  gorgeous  one  and  two 
piece  modern  styles  in  all  beau- 
tiful colors  —  in  a  variety  of 
luxurious  fabrics  of  rayons,  cot- 
tons, gabardines,  woolens,  silks, 
etc.  Expensive  dresses— original 
value  up  to  $40! 

FREE!  12  Different  Sets  of  But- 
ton Cards!  5  to  8  matched  but- 
tons on  each  card.  Worth  a  few 
dollars  —  but  yours  FREE  with 
dress,  order. 

MONEY  BACK  GUARANTEE  COUPON! 

I     GUILD  MAIL  ORDER  HOUSE,  Dept.  992  I 

(One  of  the  oldest  and  largest  mail  order  huuses  of  its  kinefl 
I     103  E.  Broadway,  New  York  2,  N.  Y. 

\     Rush  my  5  assorted  dresses  in  size  circled  below    ! 

I     with   Free   Button   Cards.   Enclosed    find    $1    de-    I 

I     posit,    balance   C.O.D.    plus   postage.    Money    re-    | 

I     turned  if  not  completely  satisfied.  Canadian  and    ■ 

|     foreign  orders  accepted. 

I     Circle  Size: 

1     Girl's  Sizes  7,  8.  10,  12,  14  are  5  for  $2.75 

'     Junior  Miss  Sizes  9,  11 .  13,  15  are  5  for  $3.75 

'  Sizes  12,  14,  16,  18,  20,  38,  40,  42,  44,  5  for  $3.75 

I  Sizes  14M.  l6y2,lsy2.20y1,22y%,241A,S  for  $3,751 

I     Extra  Large  Sizes  46,  48,  50,  52  are  5  for  $4.75        | 

I      □  Check   here   to   save   C.O.D.    fee.   Send    full    | 

|  amount  with  2 5<"  postage. 

.  □  Please   send  FREE  CATALOG  FOR  FAMILY  T 

•  V 

|     Name - " — -    J      B 

|     Address - - ' 

jl      City - -.Zone State • 

,  ?7 


(Continued  from  page  26) 
to  Iona  together — that's  the  Irish  Christian 
Brothers   School  here   in   New   ftoehelle." 

"He's  with  a  manufacturing  company 
now,"  Mary  says,  getting  in  the  last  word 
about  Frank  Donahoe.  For  Frank  doesn't 
really  come  into  the  story.  All  he  did  was 
take  Mary,  who  was  under  contract  to 
20th  Century-Fox,  to  meet  Peter,  who  was 
under  contract  to  Paramount.  And  nothing 
happened! 

A  short  time  later,  however,  Jimmy 
Fidler,  the  Hollywood  columnist,  took  a 
unit  of  young  Hollywood  stars  on  a  theater 
tour.  Mary  and  Peter  were  both  part  of 
the  group.  "We  were  thrown  together  for 
eight  weeks,"  she  points  out.  "It  gave  us 
a  chance  to  know  each  other." 

At  the  time,  Mary  had  had  her  first  big 
break  in  Hollywood — the  second  feminine 
lead  in  the  Sonja  Henie- Tyrone  Power 
film  "Second  Fiddle."  Before  that,  however, 
after  a  year  of  nothing  but  bit  parts,  she 
had  been  tempted  to  go  back  home  to  New 
Orleans.  There,  at  least,  she  had  been  a 
successful  young  secretary — even  manag- 
ing the  office  when  her  boss  was  out  of 
town.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  she  had  never 
been  too  serious  about  being  an  actress  in 
the  first  place.  She  had  held  the  title  of 
Miss  New  Orleans.  She  had  sung  in  a 
church,  choir  and  on  the  local  radio  station. 
But,  when  a  20th  Century -Fox  talent  scout 
spotted  her,  it  had  taken  her  several  days 
to  make  up  her  mind  to  sign  the  contract. 

On  the  other  hand,  Peter  had  been  in 
show  business  all  his  life.  His  mother, 
Grace  Lind,  was  a  vaudeville  headliner 
billed  as  Grace  Hayes.  Peter,  born  Joseph 
Conrad  Lind,  was  only  nine  when  he  broke 
into  the  act.  "Mother  would  sing  'Dirty 
Hands,  Dirty  Face'  to  me,"  he  recalls,  "and 
then  I'd  run  and  jump  into  her  arms." 

At  eleven,  he  did  an  impersonation  of 
Jackie  Coogan.  On  his  sixteenth  birthday, 
he  appeared  with  his  mother  at  the  famed 
Palace  Theater  on  Broadway.  It  got  him 
expelled  from  school,  but  it  made  him  a 
full-fledged  member  of  the  act — with  bill- 
ing and  everything.  Only  the  billing  read 
Grace  Hayes  and  Joseph  Lind. 

"I'll  never  forget  the  day  Mother  and 
I  were  taking  our  bows,  when  a  woman  in 
the  front  row  remarked  to  her  companion" 
— and  Peter  imitates  her  in  a  loud  stage 
whisper— " 'Get  a  load  of  that  cradle- 
snatcher!'  "  That  was  the  day  young  Joseph 
adopted  the  name  of  Peter  Lind  Hayes,  to 
make  sure  everyone  understood:  He  was 
Grace  Hayes'  son! 

By  the  time  he  joined  the  unit  touring 
with  Jimmy  Fidler,  he  was  a  well  known 
night-club  entertainer,  and  an  up-and- 
coming  film  actor. 

"I  decided  he  had  a  good  act,"  Mary 
says.  "This  is  for  me,  I  thought."  And  so, 
eight  months  later — on  December  19,  1940 — 
they  eloped  to  Yuma,  Arizona. 

From  the  very  start,  they  began  working 
together— right  in  Grace  Hayes'  Lodge. 
And  here,  the  story  goes  into  a  flashback 
to  1939,  when  Peter's  mother  first  opened 
her  night  club  in  the  San  Fernando  Valley. 
It  was  a  shoestring  venture.  On  opening 
night,  there  wasn't  even  enough  cash  on 
hand  to  change  the  first  twenty-dollar  bill. 
And,  while  Grace  came  out  to  welcome 
her  guests,  she  had  to  keep  dashing  back 
to  the  kitchen  to  help   cook   dinners. 

The  Grace  Hayes  Lodge  not  only  became 

a  success,  it  became  a   showcase  for   the 

T    talents  of  both  mother  and  son.  Grace  was 

v    cast  in  the   Paul   Whiteman  movie,   "The 

R     King  of  Jazz,"  and  Peter  got  a  chance  to 

develop  his  songs,  jokes,  dances,   comedy 

skits,  and  especially  his  impersonations.  It 

led  to  a  contract  with  Paramount,  and  a 

78 


Time  for  Laughter 

career  which  was  to  include  sixteen  fea- 
ture films. 

Now  that  Mary  was  part  of  the  family, 
she  used  the  Lodge  as  a  testing  ground 
and  outlet  for  her  talents,  too.  She  also 
continued  her  own  film  career.  But  then 
World  War  II  interrupted  the  young 
couple's  plans  for  being  together.  In  July, 
1942,  Peter  enlisted  in  the  Army  Air  Corps. 
Assigned  to  Special  Service,  he  became  a 
member  of  the  "Winged  Pigeons" — a  group 
which  included  a  host  of  names  now  fa- 
mous in  show  business. 

"We  hitch-hiked  all  over  the  South  Pa- 
cific," Peter  recalls — a  bit  wistfully.  "We 
put  on  six  hundred  and  twenty  shows  to 
an  audience  of  over  a  million  men." 

His  wife  is  the  one  who  proudly  rounds 
out  the  story.  Peter  received  a  Bronze  Star 
for  meritorious  service,  and  two  battle 
stars — to  say  nothing  of  a  good  part  in 
"Winged   Victory,"  the  Air   Force   movie. 

Mary,  in  the  meantime,  had  gone  to 
Broadway,  where  she  appeared  in  a  num- 
ber of  plays  and  musicals,  including 
"Around  the  World  in  Eighty  Days,"  with 
Orson  Welles.  On  Christmas  Day,  1945, 
Peter  was  discharged  from  the  Army.  He 
broke  in  a  new  act,  polished  it  on  a  six 
months'  road  tour,  then  brought  it  to  New 
York's   Copacabana   for   a   smash   success. 

Both  their  careers  were  flourishing.  What 
with  the  war,  however,  and  individual 
bookings,  Mary  figures  they  were  "sepa- 
rated four  years — off  and  on."  That  might 
be  show  business,  but  it  wasn't  marriage. 

"There  was  a  widening  breach  between 
us,"  Peter  says.  "I  suddenly  decided  that 
the  one  way  to  heal  it  was  to  start  working 
together." 

As  a  husband-and-wife  team,  Peter  Lind 
Hayes  and  Mary  Healy  made  theatrical 
history.  They  have  toured  the  better  night 
clubs  and  theaters  of  the  United  States 
and   Europe. 

In  television,  they  appeared  on  the 
Chevrolet  show  in  1949,  CBS-TV's  Stork 
Club  series,  then  their  own  Star  Of  The 
Family  show.  It  was  in  December,  1953, 
that  they  signed  a  long-term,  exclusive 
radio  and  television  contract  with  CBS. 
In  addition  to  their  own  radio  series,  the 
contract  called  for  Peter  to  substitute  for 
Arthur  Godfrey  during  his  absences. 

Offstage  as  well,  Peter  and  Mary  have 
been  a  successful  team.  Working  together, 
they  found  the  same  need  to  relax  to- 
gether. And,  when  Peter  advises  other 
married  couples  to  "share  as  many  inter- 
ests as  possible,"  he  is  speaking  from  his 
own  happy  experience.  Not  that  he  and 
Mary  have  time,  when  they're  working, 
for  many  interests.  But,  every  afternoon 
they  can,  they  play  golf  together.  And, 
every  night,  they  watch  television.  Occa- 
sionally, they  give  parties,  but  only  for 
"very  close  friends."  For  to  the  Hayeses, 
home  is  sanctuary — a  private  refuge  where 
they  escape  their  public  life.  And  they're 
happiest  there  when  they're  alone.  That  is, 
alone  together. 

But  it  isn't  because  they're  together  so 
much  that  their  marriage  is  "a  happy  and 
lasting  one."  Get  Mary  aside  for  a  moment 
and  she'll  give  you  the  real  "secret  for- 
mula." It's — having  a  sense  of  humor. 
And  she  gives  Peter  full  credit  for  the  fact 
there  is  never  any  friction  between  them. 

"If  we're  having  an  argument,  for  ex- 
ample, he'll  start  answering  in  ridiculous 
cliches,"  she  explains.  "Or  he'll  do  a  take- 
off of  an  uncle  of  mine  who  always  has  to 
get  in  the  last  word.  That  does  it.  That 
shuts  me  up.  Or  ask  Peter  about  my 
mother,  and  he'll  probably  tell  you: 
'Mary's  mother  is  with  the  Marines  now, 
teaching  them  how  to  fight  dirty.' " 


Actually,  Mary  points  out,  the  remark  is 
funny  because  Mrs.  Viola  Healy  is  one  of 
the  "shyest,  gentlest  creatures  alive."  But 
it  also  eliminates  any  possibility  of  taking 
the  mother-in-law  situation  seriously. 

Watching  the  two  in  operation,  however, 
it  soon  became  apparent  that  Mary  uses 
the  same  technique  on  him.  Their  humor 
seems  to  be  based  on  a  thorough  knowl- 
edge of  each  other — and  a  complete  love. 
"You're  doing  your  psychologist  bit  now," 
she'll  point  out. 

Or,  you  should  hear  the  two  argue  about 
the  motor  boat  Peter  wants  to  buy.  He 
hates  commuting  to  New  York  in  the  sum- 
mer— "fighting  all  the  traffic  and  heat  at 
that  hour  of  the  morning.  And  wouldn't  it 
be  heaven,"  he  sighs,  "to  just  cruise  down 
the  East  River  to  Fifty-Third  Street  every 
morning." 

Mary  is  against  the  idea.  Her  arguments 
are  both  logical  and  realistic.  And  yet  she 
admits — when  she's  sure  he  can't  hear — 
"He'll  get  the  boat.  I  always  let  him  win." 


: 


With  all  this  kidding,  they  never  take 
themselves  too  seriously.  Neither  can  get 
mad  at  the  other,  not  when  each  has  the 
ability  to  make  the  other  start  laughing  at 
himself.  And  that  is  why  they  can  be  to- 
gether endlessly  without  strain.  For  them 
— far  from  breeding  contempt,  familiarity 
has  only  bred  contentment.  And  that  is 
why  the  two  don't  work  together  as  much 
as  they  used  to.  Mary  is  a  completely  con- 
tented woman.  Having  everything  she 
really  wants,  she  has  lost  her  drives. 

"My  wife  has  reached  the  stage  of  life 
where  she  doesn't  like  to  work  as  much 
as  I,"  Peter  says,  accepting  it  calmly  as  a 
fact  of  nature.  And  Mary  nods  in  slightly 
shamefaced  agreement,  trying  to  explain 
the  difference  between  them.  "He's  a  busi- 
nessman," she  points  out.  "I'm — emotional." 

She  doesn't  mean,  of  course,  that  anyone 
as  creative  as  Peter  is  actually  a  business- 
man. She  is  referring  to  his  approach  to 
his  work.  He's  a  man  with  a  job  to  do,  a 
living  to  make.  The  fact  that  he  enjoys 
what  he's  doing,  more  than  anything  else 
in  the  world,  doesn't  keep  his  approach 
from  being  strictly  professional. 

Mary,  on  the  other  hand,  can  no  longer 
"take  the  pressure"  of  constant  radio  and 
television  appearances  throughout  the  year. 
"It's  different,"  she  explains,  "with  such 
programs  as  Masquerade  Party.  I  don't 
have  to  do  it.  And,  being  on  the  panel,  it 
isn't  work.  There  are  no  preliminaries.  You 
just  show." 

This,  however,  is  far  from  being  "emo- 
tional." All  she  means  is  that — "after 
twenty  years  of  show  business" — it's  hard 
for  her  to  get  worked  up  about  it  any 
more.  Her  approach  is  completely  femin- 
ine. To  a  woman,  other  things  become 
more  important.  And,  instinctively,  she 
glances  in  the  direction  of  the  bedroom 
where  Peter  Michael,  aged  seven,  and  five- 
year-old  Cathy  Lynn  are  asleep. 

Mary  still  plans  to  appear  with  Peter  in 
his  night-club  act,  but  less  and  less  on 
television.  Suddenly,  she  wants  time.  Time 
to  spend  with  the  children.  Time  to  think 
— not  of  the  next  show,  but  "of  the  next 
vacation,  or  a  new  rug." 

Already,  there  are  evidences  of  Mary's 
"thinking."  Recently,  the  Hayes — all  four 
of  them — took  a  week's  vacation  in  Ber- 
muda. And  the  living  room  and  music 
room  have  been  redecorated,  complete  with 
wall-to-wall  carpeting.  And  as  they  sit 
there,  hand-in-hand  on  their  newly  done- 
over  pink  couch,  it's  plain  to  see:  Whether 
or  not  they  continue  as  a  show-business 
"team"  indefinitely,  the  Hayes -Healy  mar- 
riage only  grows  stronger  with  every 
passing  day. 


■ 


■ 


The  Happy  Way  To  Win 


(Continued  from  page  40) 
fans,  meeting  her  for  the  first  time,  come 
away   after  a  few  moments'  conversation 
feeling    as   if   they   had   been   friends   for 
years. 

"Carol  doesn't  think  of  herself  as  a 
star,"  Adele  continues.  "When  I  first 
knew  her  three  years  ago,  she  still  kept 
a  listed  phone  number.  Fans  said,  'Wish 
we  could  talk  some  more,  I'd  sure  like  to 
call  you  up  sometime.'  Carol  answered, 
'Sure,  any  time,  I'm  in  the  book.'  I 
finally  had  to  put  a  stop  to  it,  for  I  was 
on  the  phone  four  hours  a  day.  Carol 
still  wonders  why  I  took  her  name  out  of 
the  directory." 

The  key  to  Carol's  charm  is  her  cheer- 
ful enthusiasm.  Singing  her  way  to  suc- 
cess on  the  Bob  Crosby  Show,  this 
enthusiasm  of  hers  comes  through  as  re- 
freshing as  the  bubbles  in  a  cold  glass  of 
ginger  beer  on  a  hot  summer  day.  Pro- 
ducer Gil  Rodin  says,  "Carol  is  coopera- 
tive, eager  to  be  a  success,  willingly  takes 
any  direction.  She  will  do  anything  for 
the  good  of  the  show." 

Bob  Crosby  says  of  Carol,  "She's  a  pro- 
fessional." In  saying  this,  he  is  paying 
Carol  the  highest  compliment  a  performer 
can  receive.  In  Carol's  case,  the  compli- 
ment is  deserved,  for  she  has  fought  long 
and  hard  to  achieve  this  acclaim,  and — 
although  many  times  the  obstacles  were 
piled  up  in  the  path  of  her  career — she 
has  never  taken  her  eye  off  the  goal. 

Carol  was  born  in  Harvard,  Illinois. 
Her  father  was  a  traveling  railroad  exec- 
utive, and  the  Richards  family  almost  al- 
ways was  in  transit.  Carol  spent  her  first 
two  weeks  in  the  Harvard  Hospital  and 
the  next  seven  years  in  Milwaukee.  When 
she  was  four,  she  started  dancing  lessons 
with  Marie  Kay  Weber.  "I  was  a  very 
poor  dancer,"  says  Carol,  "the  worst.  But 
I  was  the  only  one  in  the  group  who 
could  sing.  Mrs.  Weber  gave  me  free 
dancing  lessons  in  exchange  for  singing 
solos  in  her  recitals." 

Singing  was  a  part  of  Carol's  early 
family  life.  "We  were  the  singingest  fam- 
ily ever,"  she  recalls.  "Any  minute,  day 
or  night,  one  of  my  two  brothers,  my  sis- 
ter, me — -or  my  mother  and  father — were 
apt  to  burst  into  song.  After-dinner 
singing  was  our  favorite  form  of  recrea- 
tion. My  mother  played  piano,  and  we 
kids  learned  all  the  songs  my  father 
sang  when  they  were  courting." 

At  six,  Carol  says  laughingly,  she  was 


"retired"  from  her  singing  career  be- 
cause of  temperament.  "I  was  doing  a 
big  show  at  the  local  theater,"  she  re- 
members, "and  the  orchestra  kept  mis- 
playing  my  music.  I  finally  lost  my  tem- 
per, stamped  my  foot  and  said,  'How  can 
you  be  so  dumb!'  Without  scolding,  my 
mother  very  quietly  came  up  on  stage 
and  said,  'Come  on,  honey,  let's  go  home.' 
My  mother  was  always  very  understand- 
ing. She  realized  that  I  was  out  of  my 
depth,  and  took  me  back  to  the  kind  of 
life  that  a  six-year-old  knew  how  to 
cope  with." 

Carol  didn't  sing  in  public  again  until 
she  was  twelve.  But,  during  the  summers 
she  spent  on  her  grandfather's  farm  near 
Genoa  City,  Wisconsin,  Carol  made  up 
songs  about  all  the  farm  animals.  "I  loved 
animals,"  says  Carol.  "I  was  always 
dragging  home  a  stray  cat,  dog,  bird, 
mouse — anything  that  walked  on  four  legs 
or  flew.  I  tried  to  hide  them  from  the 
family,  so  they  usually  wound  up  in  the 
attic  or  basement." 

At  eleven,  Carol  was  captivated  by  her 
sister  Mary's  beau,  Nestor  Thalleen.  "I 
wasn't  interested  in  Nestor  for  myself," 
she  explains,  "but  for  Mary.  I  was  al- 
ways barefoot — I  still  am  whenever  I  can 
be — and  Nestor  was  the  first  person  for 
whom  I  willingly  put  on  shoes.  He  had 
a  gentle  way  of  shaming  me  into  it.  And, 
when  I  knew  he  was  coming,  I  even 
changed  my  overalls  for  a  dress  and 
combed   my   hair!" 

At  twelve,  Carol  began  to  sing  again, 
in  a  trio  with  her  younger  brother,  eleven, 
and  older  brother,  fourteen.  "By  then 
we  had  moved  to  Rockford,  Illinois,  where 
Father  was  American  Legion  Post  Com- 
mander, and  Mother  was  a  leader  in  the 
'8  &  40,'  the  Auxiliary's  honor  society.  We 
did  a  lot  of  barber- shop  singing  for  the 
Legion  Post  and  other  local  organizations." 

At  sixteen,  Carol  got  her  first  "profes- 
sional" job  at  radio  station  WIBC  in  In- 
dianapolis, where  she  joined  a  civic  dra- 
matic group.  On  the  second  show,  "Death 
of  a  Swan,"  Carol  played  the  great  bal- 
lerina, Pavlova.  The  script  required 
someone  to  sing  "None  But  the  Lonely 
Heart."  Since  no  one  else  in  the  group 
sang,  Carol  got  the  job.  "That  was  the  end 
of  my  dramatic  career,"  she  says,  "and  the 
real   beginning   of   my   singing   career." 

A  few  days  later,  remembering  Carol's 
song,  the  program  director  offered  her  a 
fifteen-minute   daily   show   with   the   sta- 


MyMotherBrokeUp 
My  Marriage . . . 

Listening  to  the  radio  program  "My  True  Story" 
will  not  only  be  interesting  and  exciting  for  you, 
but  sooner  or  later  you're  very  likely  to  hear  a 
story  that  may  have  some  connection  with  your 
life — or  the  life  of  someone  you  know.  For  these 
are  stories  about  real  people,  taken  right  from  the 
files   of  True   Story   Magazine.   Be   sure   to   listen. 

TUNE  IN  EVERY  MORNING  TO 

MY  TRUE  STORY 

American  Broadcasting  Stations 

"Devil's  work,"  dad  said,  "no  good  can  come  of  it."  Read  "Neither  Girl  Nor  Boy"  in  September 
TRUE  STORY  magazine — at  newsstands  now. 


New!   Clearasil  Medication 

STARVES 
PIMPLES 

SKIN-COLORED...  hides  pimp/eswh//e  if  works 


;4>N 


Doctors  prove  this  new-type  greaseless  medica- 
tion especially  for  pimples  really  works.  In  skin 
specialists'  tests  on  202  patients,  9  out  of  every 
10  cases  were  cleared  up  or  definitely  improved 
while  using  clearasil. 

3  MEDICAL  ACTIONS  WORK   FAST 

1 .  PENETRATES  PIMPLES  .  .  .  kera- 
tolytic  action  softens  and  dissolves 
infected  skin  tissue  .  .  .  permits 
medication  to  penetrate  to  any 
lower  pimple  infection. 

2.  ISOLATES  PIMPLES  . . .  antiseptic 
action  of  this  new-type  medication 
stops  growth  of  bacteria  that  can 
cause  and  spread  pimples. 

3.  'STARVES'  PIMPLES  .  .  .  CLEAR- 
asil's  famous  dry-up  action 
'starves'  pimples  because  it  helps 
to  remove  the  oils  that  pimples 
"feed"  on. 


n 


ENDS  EMBARRASSMENT  because  skin-color  hides 
pimples  amazingly.  Guaranteed  to  work  for  you  as  in 
doctors'  tests,  or  money  back.  Get  clearasil  today; 
only  69*  at  all  drug  counters  (economy  size  98fi). 


America's  Largest  Selling 
Pimple  Medication 


SKINNYLECS! 


Try  this  new  amazing  scien- 
tific home  method  to  ADD 
SHAPELY  CURVES  at  ankles, 
calves,  thighs,  knees,  hips! 

»■  f%  ■■  VB  As  a  friend-winning 
k  mr  fa  fa  limited     time      intro- 

||LL  ductory     offer      (sold 

for  $2) 
Skinny  legs  rob  the  rest  of  your  fig- 
ure of  attractiveness!  Now  at  last 
you  too  can  try  to  help  yourself  im- 
prove underdeveloped  legs  due  to 
normal  causes,  and  fill  out  any  part 
of  your  legs  you  wish,  or  your  legs 
all  over  as  many  women  have  by 
following  this  new  scientific  meth- 
od. Well  known  authority  on  legs 
with  years  of  experience  offers  you 
this  tested  and  proven  scientific 
course — only  15  minutes  a  day — in 
the  privacy  of  your  home!  Contains 
step-by-step  illustrations  of  the 
easy  SCIENTIFIC  LEG  technique 
with  simple  instructions:  gaining 
shapely,  stronger  legs,  improving 
skin  color   and  circulation   of  legs. 

Limited   Time    FREE    OFFER 
For  the  "Shapely  Legs  Home  Meth- 
od**   mailed    in    plain  wrapper,   just 
send    name   and  address. 

MODERN   METHODS 

Dept.    SL-9809W 
296    Broadway,    New    York    7,    N.V. 


79 


tion's  hillbilly  group.  She  says  now  in 
mock  horror,  "Oh,  my  goodness,  I  was 
bad!  I  had  no  conception  of  popular 
music.  For  one  thing,  I  had  grown  up 
with  a  built-in  accompanist,  in  the  person 
of  my  sister  Mary.  Mary's  piano  knew 
what  I  was  going  to  do  before  I  did.  .  .  . 
But  the  leader  of  the  hillbilly  band  would 
stomp  his  feet,  shout:  '  "Freight  Train 
Blues"  in  the  key  of  G'— and  off  they'd 
go.  I  was  left  at  the  depot." 

There  were  no  wage  scales  at  that  time. 
For  her  five  shows  a  week,  Carol  re- 
ceived fifteen  dollars.  She  says,  "The  only 
reason  they  kept  me  on  the  station  was 
because  I  worked  so  cheaply." 

The  hillbilly  show  ran  from  8:15  to 
8:30  A.M.  During  the  day,  Carol  worked  as 
executive  secretary  at  the  Do-All  Manu- 
facturing Plant.  Carol's  boss,  Charles 
Lockwood,  had  been  a  member  of  the 
civic  dramatic  group.  When  his  secretary 
quit,  he  asked  Carol  if  she  typed,  took 
shorthand,  and  wanted  a  job.  "I  had  had 
six  weeks  of  typing — could  pick  out  forty 
words  per  minute,"  says  Carol,  "and  I 
counted  on  my  memory  for  the  shorthand 
— so  I  said  yes  .  .  .  I'm  sure  Mr.  Lockwood 
knew  I  was  faking  as  a  secretary.  But  I 
couldn't  afford  to  give  up  the  job  .  .  . 
since  it  paid  $35  a  week." 

During  this  period,  Carol  spent  frequent 
evenings  entertaining  at  the  USO.  When 
she  was  offered  an  opportunity  to  tour 
with  the  USO,  she  accepted — and  traveled 
to  every  Army  Air  Force  base  in  the 
country.  "On  the  tour,"  she  recalls,  "we 
got  great  applause  for  every  song.  But  I 
shortly  found  out  that  any  girl,  on  any 
stage  before  a  G.I.  audience,  received  a 
great  ovation,  whether  she  sang  or  not. 
After  the  USO  tour  was  over — and 
applause  was  a  rarer  commodity — it  was 
a  great  shock  to  me  to  find  out  that  I 
really  was  very  ordinary." 

When  she  came  back  from  touring, 
Carol  was  very  disappointed  with  the 
slump  her  career  had  taken.  She  was  also 
emotionally  upset  because  of  her  mar- 
riage. Carol  had  married  a  wonderful 
young  flyer,  Bayard  Lutzhoff.  But,  after 
the  war,  they  found  they  really  did  not 
share  the  interests  they  first  thought  they 
had  in  common,  and  Carol  saw  they  were 
slowly  drifting  apart.  (It  was  one  of  those 
unfortunate  circumstances.  After  the  di- 
vorce, Carol,  Judy,  Jean  and  Bayard  all 


came  to  California — though  not  together. 
They  will  always  be  friends,  and  Carol 
encourages  Judy's  and  Jean's  visits  with 
their  father.) 

"In  addition  to  this  problem,"  Carol 
recalls,  "I  was  especially  depressed  about 
my  job  situation  and,  one  day  in  Minne- 
apolis, I  sat  down  and  wrote  an  unhappy, 
complaining  letter  to  my  sister.  I  had 
sealed  it,  and  was  ready  to  mail  it  at  the 
front  desk  of  the  hotel  where  we  were 
staying,  when  the  desk  clerk  handed  me  a 
telegram.  It  was  from  my  brother,  in- 
forming me  that  he  had  lost  a  leg  in  the 
service. 

"On  the  desk  was  a  little  card  which 
read:  I  cried  because  I  had  no  shoes — 
until  I  met  a  man  who  had  no  feet.  I  re- 
membered how  much  like  twins  my 
brother  and  I  had  been  when  we  were 
kids.  We  used  to  sit  by  the  hour,  dis- 
cussing our  aims  in  life.  I  wanted  to  be  a 
singer.  He  wanted  to  be  a  doctor.  Now  I 
thought  how  uncomplaining  he  was,  even 
though  his  career  seemed  unobtainable.  I 
took  the  unmailed  letter  I'd  written  to  my 
sister  and  threw  it  in  the  wastebasket. 

"But  nothing  did  stop  my  brother.  In 
spite  of  the  years  in  service,  the  lost  leg, 
and  the  problem  of  supporting  a  wife  and 
child,  he  went  on  with  his  medical 
studies.  Later,  after  he  had  become  a  gen- 
eral practitioner,  I  told  him,  'You  live  in 
the  house  of  your  dreams,  in  the  town  of 
your  choice,  and  have  achieved  your  goal 
in  life  in  spite  of  tremendous  obstacles.' 
He  said,  'What  obstacles?  I  didn't  see 
them.  I  saw  only  my  goal.' 

"That  one  sentence  has  had  the  greatest 
impact  on  my  life." 

Carol  never  gave  up  the  pursuit  of 
her  own  goals.  She  went  to  every  audition 
in  Minneapolis.  A  friend  of  hers  heard 
about  a  Bob  Hope  audition  for  a  one- 
night  stand  at  the  local  Shrine  Audito- 
rium. Three  hundred  girls  had  already 
turned  out  for  it.  In  spite  of  the  for- 
midable odds,  Carol  was  determined  to 
make  a  try.  She  went  down  to  the  radio 
station  and,  with  heart  in  mouth,  boarded 
the  elevator  for  the  studio.  "A  convention 
was  going  on  in  the  building,"  she  re- 
calls. "The  elevator  was  packed  with 
cigar-smoking  men,  and  the  poor,  old, 
overworked  machine  got  stuck  between 
floors.  We  were  trapped  for  three  hours. 
When   I   finally   got   to   the    studio,   there 


lition." 


80 


' 


h 


Jeannie  and  Judy  don't  have  to  hide  their  pets  from  mama  Carol  Richards — who 
remembers  how  she  tried  to  bring  home  every  stray  animal  on  grandfather's  farm. 


were    only    three    girls    left    to    audition.' 

Carol  sang  "Embraceable  You,"  as  Bob 
Hope's  representative  sat  in  the  sponsor's 
booth,  making  selections.  Carol — literally 
"all  smoked  up"  from  the  ordeal  in  the 
elevator — felt  she  didn't  have  a  chance. 
But,  when  her  song  was  finished,  hers 
was  one  of  the  six  tapes  sent  off  to  Hope. 

A  large  press *  party  was  held  at  the 
studio  to  announce  the  winner,  with  the 
actual  announcement  to  be  made  at  mid- 
night. Twelve  o'clock  came  and  went,  and 
Carol  was  getting  more  tired  and  nervous 
by  the  minute.  Finally,  at  4  A.M.,  infor- 
mation came  from  the  West  Coast  that 
Bob  had  selected  Carol! 

Bob  Hope  came  to  Minneapolis  on  a 
series  of  one-nighters.  On  their  first  show 
at  the  Shrine,  he  told  Carol  he  considered 
her  a  great  success.  In  June,  he  asked 
Carol  to  do  another  show  in  St.  Paul.  And 
in  September,  Bob  called  her  from  Cali- 
fornia, asking  her  to  join  him  for  a  radio 
show  there.  Carol  said  yes  to  the  offer 
and  hurried  down  to  a  Minneapolis 
theater  to  rehearse  her  song  with  Desi 
Arnaz,  who  was  appearing  there — Bo' 
had  signed  Desi  for  his  show,  too. 

"Desi — then  an  orchestra  leader  doing 
one-nighters — and  I  flew  out  to  California 
together,"  says  Carol.  "Bob  signed  me  to 
do  three  shows  and,  once  again,  I  really 
thought  my  goal  was  in  sight." 

After  the  Bob  Hope  shows,  Carol's  ca- 
reer again  was  in  a  slump.  But  by  this 
time,  like  her  brother,  she  had  learned  to 
overlook  obstacles  and  "see  only  her  goal." 
She  started  up  the  ladder  again  when  she 
joined  Russ  Morgan's  band  at  the  Los 
Angeles  Biltmore  Hotel.  Having  been  in 
California  for  such  a  short  time,  Carol 
had  few  friends  and,  when  the  holiday 
season  rolled  around,  there  wasn't  a  lone- 
lier girl  in  Hollywood. 

One  day  between  Thanksgiving  and 
Christmas,  she  met  her  old  friend,  Desi 
Arnaz,  on  the  street.  Desi  asked  her  what 
she  was  doing  for  Christmas  dinner. 
"Nothing,"  said  Carol. 

"Oh,  no,"  said  Desi  in  his  inimitable 
accent.  "Lucy  and  I  would  love  to  have 
you  come  out  for  the  day." 

"I  spent  Christmas  Eve  and  morning 
with  Lucy  and  Desi,"  she  recalls.  "It 
wasn't  exactly  my  most  affluent  period — I 
know  my  coat  was  already  several  seasons 
old — but  to  be  invited  in  by  these  won- 
derful people  to  share  their  Christmas 
gave   me   a  warm   feeling. 

"For  a  moment,  while  they  opened  their 
gifts,  I  began  to  feel  like  the  little  girl 
whose  present  had  fallen  behind  the  fire- 
place and  gotten  lost.  But,  when  all  the 
gifts  were  opened,  there  was  still  one  big 
box  underneath  the  tree.  Lucy  said,  'I  won- 
der whose  that  could  be?'  Desi  replied,  'I 
don't  know — there's  no  name  on  it.  Let's 
open  it  up   and  find   out.' 

"It  was  the  most  beautiful  white  coat 
you've  ever  seen,"  says  Carol.  "Desi  said, 
'Why,  it's  just  your  size,  Carol — '  Their 
kindness  touched  off  the  biggest,  wettest 
tears  you've  ever  seen." 

After  a  year  with  Russ  Morgan,  Carol 
traveled  on  the  road  for  the  next  year 
with  Desi's  band.  "I  had  a  wonderful 
time,"  she  says,  "even  though  touring  is 
never  easy.  But  I  think  that's  part  of 
show  business  which  everybody  in  the 
entertainment   world    should    experience." 

Carol's  career  roller-coastered  along  for 
the  next  three  or  four  years,  one  minute 
up,  the  next  minute  down.  After  the  band 
experiences,  she  sang  on  a  summer-re- 
placement radio  show,  made  a  couple  of 
records  with  Bing  Crosby,  and  guested  on 
several  of  Bing's  shows.  From  there  she 
went  to  NBC-TV  in  a  series  of  weekly 
episodes  with  Pinky  Lee,  in  which  she 
played     an     up-and-coming     girl     singer. 


Then,  one  day,  Carol  received  a  sudden 
call  from  her  agent  to  report  to  Columbia 
Pictures  for  an  audition.  "I  was  so  ex- 
cited when  the  call  came,"  she  says,  "be- 
cause I  thought  I  was  going  to  be  in 
movies.  At  the  audition,  the  director  kept 
saying,  "That's  right,  just  fine,  wonderful 
voice!'  I  visualized  my  name  in  lights 
across  country.  Then  they  brought  in 
the  star.  'Miss  Richards,'  said  the  director, 
'we  will  be  using  your  voice  to  dub  for  the 
star's  singing  voice!' 

"I  was  so  deflated  that,  at  first,  I  wasn't 
going  to  do  it.  Then  I  found  out  how  much 
money  they  were  willing  to  pay,  and  it 
was  a  different  story." 

The  "dubbing"  job  opened  up  an  en- 
tirely new  career  for  Carol,  but  a  frus- 
trating one.  In  the  next  five  years,  hers 
was  the  singing  voice  of  nearly  every  big- 
name  star  in  Hollywood.  She  sang  for 
Joan  Caulfield  in  "The  Pretty  Girl,"  Vera 
Ellen  in  "Call  Me  Madam,"  Constance 
Smith  in  "Man  in  the  Attic,"  Betta  St. 
John  in  "The  Robe,"  and  Cyd  Charisse 
in  "Brigadoon." 

"At  first  I  had  a  hard  time  matching  my 
voice  to  so  many  personalities,"  says 
Carol.  "Then  I  learned  a  trick  which  later 
backfired:  I  asked  the  star  to  sing  the 
song  with  me  and  I  watched  the  way  their 
lips  formed  the  words.  Then  I  went  back 
and  sang,  using  their  facial  expressions. 
The  song  came  out  so  differently  from  the 
way  I  normally  would  sing  it  that  I 
couldn't  believe  it  was  me! 

"Recently,  I  was  called  back  to  M-G-M 
to  do  a  general  dramatic  screen  test.  They 
asked  me  to  mouth  to  one  of  my  old  Cyd 
Charisse  records,  but  I  could  never  get  in 
synchronization — I  simply  couldn't  do  it. 
The  test  came  out  looking  stilted,  be- 
cause it  was  impossible  for  me  to  imitate 
my  own  imitation  of  someone  else!" 

Carol  had  been  doing  TV  guest  spots 
in  Hollywood  for  two  or  three  years  when 
Joanie  O'Brien,  Bob  Crosby's  other  fea- 
tured singer,  was  married  and  Carol  was 
asked  to  come  in  for  two  weeks  to  sub- 
stitute. "The  second  day  Carol  was  on  the 
show,"  says  Bob  Crosby,  "we  began  get- 
ting telephone  calls  from  the  viewers 
telling  us  how  much  they  liked  Carol.  The 
third  day  letters  started  arriving  from 
across  country,  all  expressing  the  hope 
that,  even  after  Joanie  returned,  Carol 
could  stay  on  the  show,  too.  It  was  obvious 
to  us,"  continues  Bob,  "that  Carol  had 
immediately  been  taken  to  the  viewing 
public's  heart." 

Today,  Carol's  schedule  is  filled  with  her 
daily  rehearsals,  decorating  and  re-dec- 
orating her  modest  North  Hollywood  home, 
and  sharing  the  companionship  of  her 
daughters. 

Jean,  a  flaxen-haired  willow  wand,  is 
devoted  to  Carol  and  loves  to  share  in  her 
homemaking  activities.  Thanksgiving  and 
Christmas  dinner,  for  example,  will  find 
Carol  and  Jean  together  over  the  hot  stove 
in  the  kitchen.  Jeannie  says,  "And  Mother 
makes  the  best  goulash  you've  ever  tasted. 
I  mean  it's  real  yummy!"  When  asked 
what  kind  of  goulash,  Jeannie  replies, 
"What  do  you  mean,  what  kind?  It's 
'Carol  Richards'  Goulash,'  thaifs  what 
kind!" 

Though  their  home  was  once  just  an 
average  little  house,  Carol  has  knocked 
out  walls  and  made  additions,  and  she  and 
the  girls  have  done  much  of  the  wall- 
papering, wood  paneling,  painting  and 
varnishing.  The  house  is  a  visible  symbol 
of  Carol's  personality.  Its  wallpaper  is  gay 
and  bright,  it  is  furnished  in  a  comfort- 
able early  American  style  that  seemingly 
invites  company,  and  it  is  harmoniously 
balanced    and    conservative    throughout. 

Carol  does  her  own  cleaning.  She  loves 
to  spend  half-a-day,  on  Saturday,  polish- 
ing and  preening  .  .  .  yet,  when  Jeannie 


and  Judy  and  their  army  of  friends  troop 
in,  she  never  says,  "Hands  down,"  or 
"Feet  off." 

Carol  planned  the  house  for  the  girls  as 
well  as  for  herself.  Jeannie,  for  example, 
takes  advantage  of  the  sliding  doors  and 
drapes  in  the  living  room  to  put  on  her 
"shows."  The  drapes  serve  as  curtains,  the 
sliding  doors  disappear  to  reveal  an  out- 
door garden  which  becomes  a  realistic 
stage  setting.  Her  latest  show,  "Mischie- 
vous Sisters" — written,  produced  and  di- 
rected by  Jeannie — attracted  an  audience 
of  twenty,  and  was  a  great  sucoess.  "It 
must  have  been,"  Jeannie  says.  "They 
didn't  ask  for  their  money  back." 

V/arol  encourages  Jeannie  with  her  per- 
forming and  her  interest  in  music  and 
piano,  though  in  this  regard  she  doesn't 
push  her  daughter.  Carol  also  tries  to 
teach  her  girls  independence.  For  ex- 
ample, they  do  a  great  deal  of  shopping 
together  and  Carol  gives  Judy  a  stipulated 
allowance  from  which  she  has  to  fulfill  all 
her  clothing  needs.  If  she  spends  twenty- 
five  dollars  on  one  bathing  suit,  she  must 
either  go  without  other  new  clothes  until 
the  next  month,  or  else  work  "overtime" 
washing  windows  to  earn  extra  cash. 

Both  girls  are  proud  of  their  mother's 
success  on  the  Bob  Crosby  Show.  But, 
since  Carol  doesn't  think  of  herself  as  a 
"star,"  Jeannie  reflects  this  attitude  and  is 
very  down-to-earth  in  her  relationship 
with  her  friends.  Carol's  sister  Mary,  how- 
ever, reports  a  cute  anecdote  which  took 
place  on  their  recent  trip  to  Florida.  Says 
Mary:  "Jeannie  got  along  well  with 
everyone  except  one  little  girl  who  was 
jealous  of  her  and  said  to  Jeannie  one 
day,  'The  only  reason  you  have  so  many 
friends  is  because  your  mother  is  Carol 
Richards.'  Jeannie  was  surprised  by  the 
affront  and  replied  promptly,  'Why,  that 
isn't  true  at  all.  I  had  lots  of  friends  even 
when  my  mother  was  unpopular!' " 

"Today,"  says  Carol,  "more  then  any- 
thing else,  Jeannie  would  like  to  be  a 
farmer.  That's  her  goal  in  life.  In  fact, 
she  has  a  good  start  with  her  pets,  Pedro 
the  parrot,  Mac  the  collie,  Sergeant  the 
German  shepherd,  and  Betty  the  turtle. 

"Last  week,  she  and  Judy  wrote  a  letter 
to  California's  Governor  Knight  asking 
for  information  on  farming  in  Maryland. 
A  week  later,  a  letter  came  back  from  the 
governor,  saying,  'It's  a  wonderful  thing 
for  you  young  ladies  to  want  to  be 
farmers.  It  certainly  is  a  very  nice  life, 
but  I  would  like  to  suggest  before  you 
take  off  for  Maryland,  you  look  into  the 
advantages  of  farm  life  in  California.' 
Enclosed  was  a  stack  of  California  farm 
literature. 

"I  asked  Jeannie  the  other  day,"  Carol 
adds,  "if  she  had  any  other  ideas  on 
becoming  a  farmer.  She  said,  'It's  very 
simple,  Mother.  I  plan  on  going  to  agricul- 
tural school.  They  have  lots  of  farmers 
there.' " 

Carol  understands  Jeannie's  desire  to 
achieve  a  goal  of  her  own.  She  also  un- 
derstands that  goals  may  change,  as  they 
did  in  her  own  case.  When  Carol  was 
Jeannie's  age,  she,  too,  had  wanted  to  be  a 
farmer.  But  then,  the  singing  became  the 
most  important  thing  in  her  life  and — 
after  many  years  of  looking  past  the 
obstacles  and  aiming  at  what  she  really 
wanted — Carol  feels  she's  finally  arrived. 

However,  there  are  still  further  achieve- 
ments in  Carol's  future,  because,  as  she 
says,  when  all  goals  are  gone,  life  is 
empty.  "For  myself,  I'd  like  to  write  a 
successful  song.  I'd  like  to  have  a  hit 
record.  And  I  want  to  play  a  dramatic 
role.  .  .  .  But,  more  important,  I  want 
happiness  for  Judy  and  Jean.  I  want  them 
to  be  themselves — and,  if  Jeannie  wants  to 
be  a  farmer — let  her  be  a  happy  farmer." 


BARGAIN 
PACKED 

stile 

CATALOG 


Join  the  millions  of  families  who 
shop  and  save  by  mail  from 
this  color-filled  catalog.  Select 
from  thousands  of  new  styles 
ond  finest  home  items  ...  all 


Hi*  j 


NATIONAL 

BELLAS  HESS 

Foil  &  Winter 

Catalog 


priced    at   America's    greatest     C-yjjjgs  Gfltore  For 

savings  and  all  absolutely  guar-     •»»»«•»•'  ., 

anteed  .  .  .  your  money  back     YOU  &  Your  rflnH'Y 

if  you  are  not  pleased. 

SAVE  MONEY— TIME!  ACT  NOW!  You've  nothing  to  pay 
—  no  obligation  to  buy.  To  get  your  catalog  just  send  your 
name  and  address  to: 

NATIONAL  BELLAS  HESS 

247-99  Bellas  Hess  Blag.,  Kansas  City,  Mo. 


81 


So  in  Love,  So  in  Luck 


(Continued  from,  page  50) 
at    the    ripe    young    age    of    twenty-two! 

In  love  Don  certainly  is.  "Lots  of  crushes 
in  my  time,"  he  says,  "three  months,  six 
months— then  over.  But,  when  I  met  Nan, 
1  knew  what  love  could  be.".  .  .  In  luck, 
too — although  the  term,  as  applied  to  the 
career  of  hardy  perennial  Hastings,  is 
actually    misapplied. 

Don,  who  was  born  in  Brooklyn,  New 
York,  April  1,  1934 — the  youngest  of  four 
sons  (all  Dodger  fans!) — made  his  first 
appearance  on  stage  in  the  long-run 
smash  hit,  Life  With  Father.  After  three 
years  of  playing,  successively,  two  of  the 
four  children  in  the  comedy — a  record- 
breaking  1248  performances  in  all — Don, 
fearing  he  would  wind  up  portraying 
"Father"  himself,  quit  the  road  tour  at 
the  end  of  the  season  and  wound  up  as 
Uncle  Chris'  nephew  in  the  stage  play, 
"I  Remember  Mama." 

For  the  next  four  years,  child-actor 
Hastings  appeared  in  a  number  of  Broad- 
way shows  .  .  .  among  them,  "Georgia 
Boy,"  "Dearly  Beloved,"  "On  Whitman 
Avenue"  (which  starred  the  late  Canada 
Lee)  and — as  he  was  entering  his  fifteenth 
year — Tennessee  Williams'  "Summer  and 
Smoke,"  in  which  he  played  the  hero  as 
a  boy  during  the  ten-minute  prologue. 
.  .  .  All  this — and  radio,  too! 

"I  started  doing  radio,"  Don  recalls, 
"started  getting  auditions  at  each  of  the 
major  studios,  when  I  was  about  twelve. 
Tough,  too  .  .  .  had  to  bring  your  own 
material.  Mine  was  a  mishmash.  I  had 
the  scripts  of  some  of  the  plays  I'd  done. 
I  read  them  over,  picked  out  a  couple  of 
scenes  ~  I  liked  in  each  one,  and  sort  of 
ran  them  together  as  one  scene.  Once 
you  get  started,  though  .  .  .  not  so  tough. 
Your  name  gets  around.  You  meet  people. 
If  you  make  some  sort  of  an  impression, 
they  call  you.  I  never  had  an  agent. 
Except  me,"  he  smiles. 

They  did  call  Don.  They  kept  on  call- 
ing him.  When  he  was  in  a  play,  he  did 
radio,  daytime  and  on  Sunday  nights.  "I 
did  a  lot  of  daytime  dramas,"  he  says, 
"Portia  Faces  Life,  for  one,  Hilltop  House, 
and  quite  a  few  others.  I  used  to  be  on 
the  big-time  radio  show,  Cavalcade,  quite 
often,  too.  On  that  show,  they  always  had 
a  'name'  star  .  .  .  but  the  stars  I  worked 
with  were  just  like  actors  without  'names.' 
Regulars  that  is,  friendly.  Real  friendly." 

"You'd  never  take  him  for  an  actor," 
Don's  pals  say,  "no  one  ever  does."  Don 
has  his  folks  to  thank  for  this — for  be- 
ing the  normal,  well-adjusted,  well  and 
warmly  liked  young  man  he  is —  and  well 
he  knows  where  the  credit  is  due.  "When 
anyone  asks  me  who  helped  me  the  most," 
he  says,  "I  always  answer:  'my  family 
more  than  anyone.' " 

As  one  example  of  good  judgement  on 
the  part  of  his  parents:  During  his  child- 
hood years  in  the  theater,  young  Hastings 
never  took  a  curtain  call.  When  he  was 
on  tour,  his  father  travelled  with  him 
and  as  soon  as  Don's  last  line  was  spoken, 
he  whisked  him  out  of  the  theater  and 
off  to  bed.  When  Don  was  on  Broadway, 
his  mother  usually  picked  him  up  and 
took  him  home  before  the  final  curtain 
fell  and  applause  summoned  the  cast 
(minus  its  junior  member)  to  the  foot- 
lights. "I  never  had  footlight  fever.  I 
guess,"  Don  laughs,  "you  can't  have 
what  you've  never  been  exposed  to! 

"But  the  best  thing  my  parents  did  for 
me  was  that  they  left  most  of  it  up  to  me. 
When  a  part  came  up  for  me  in  a  play 
or  on  radio,  they'd  ask,  'Do  you  want  to 
do  this?  Or  do  you  want  to  stay  in  school 


82 


and   forget   all   about  it?'  If  a  ball  game 


came  up  at  school,  in  which  I  was  sched- 
uled to  play — and  a  job  was  offered  at 
the  same  time — they'd  say,  'You  play  with 
the  team,  and  forget  about  the  job.' 

"When  I  was  six  years  old,"  Don  remi- 
nisces, "we  moved  from  Brooklyn  to  St. 
Albans,  Long  Island.  In  St.  Albans,  I 
went  to  the  Catholic  school,  as  my  brothers 
did.  When  I  toured,  I  had  to  'go'  to  cor- 
respondence school.  Summers,  I  was  al- 
ways home,  and  the  four  of  us  did  the 
things  all  kids  do.  Played  ball.  Went  to 
Ebbets  Field  and  rooted  for  the  Dodgers, 
you  bet!  Went  swimming  at  Long  Beach 
and  Jones  Beach.  Went  to  the  movies.  I've 
always  been  a  movie  fan,  used  to  go  two 
and  three  times  a  week.  To  Westerns, 
mostly.  Gary  Cooper,  John  Wayne,  Hum- 
phrey Bogart — they  were  my  boys!  Later 
on,  as  we  were  growing  up,  the  interest 
shifted  to  girls.  With  four  boys  in  the 
family — quite  a  lot  of  girls! 

"Charlie,  my  oldest  brother,  is  now 
thirty -five  and  in  the  textile  business. 
Richard — he's  thirty-three — works  for 
Western  Electric.  Bobbie,  thirty-one,  is 
an  actor,  in  radio  and  TV,  like  myself. 
There's  quite  a  bit  of  difference  in  our 
ages,  but  it  didn't,  somehow,  seem  to  make 
a  heck  of  a  lot  of  difference.  We  were 
always  buddies,  my  brothers  and  I,  and 
are  now.  They  did  a  lot  for  me,  just  being 
around.   .  .  ." 

A  good,  sound,  sensible  bringing-up  like 
this,  a  family  like  this,  three  older  broth- 
ers to  keep  you  cut  down  to  size  ...  a 
lad  just  doesn't  learn  how  to  dramatize 
himself.  Even  in  his  "big  moments"  .  .  . 
such  as  that  telephone  call  from  Du  Mont 
in  1949. 

"Liz  Mears  called  from  Du  Mont,"  he 
says  matter-of-factly,  "to  say  she  wanted 
me  to  come  up  and  read  for  the  part  of 
the  Video  Ranger  in  Captain  Video,  the 
new  science-fiction  series  which  was  about 
to  make  its  debut  on  the  Du  Mont  net- 
work. I  went  up  and  read.  After  I'd  read, 
Miss  Mears  more  or  less  told  me  I  had 
the  part.  The  author  of  Captain  Video  was 
there,  too.  'As  far  as  I'm  concerned,'  he 
said,  'you're  the  boy  we're  looking  for.' 
But  I  never  believe  I  have  a  part  until 
I'm  actually  doing  it.  .  .  .  When  I  read 
for  the  part  of  Jack  Lane  in  The  Edge  Of 
Night,  it  was  about  three  weeks  before  I 
got  the  call  to  come  up  for  the  final 
reading.  The  contract  was  signed  the  fol- 
lowing week.  But,  not  until  Jack  Lane 
faced  the  cameras,  did  I  believe  it.   .   .   . 

"It  was  a  great  job.  I  enjoyed  it.  You 
sort  of  had  the  feeling  the  show  was  mak- 
ing Space  history  as  well  as  TV  history. 
I  got  so  that  the  progress  of  real  rocket- 
navigation  became  my  favorite  reading 
matter  and  my  favorite  topic  of  conversa- 
tion. There  were  other  perquisites,  too. 
I  got  a  lot  of  fan  mail  from  the  kids,  had 
quite  a  few  fan  clubs.  Still  have.  The  kids 
still  write  me  letters.  Very  faithful,  kids. 

"During  the  six  years  we  were  on  the 
air,  there  were  two  'Captain  Videos.' 
Dick  Coogan — (now  in  the  20th  Century- 
Fox  film,  'The  Revolt  of  Mamie  Stover')  — 
was  the  first  one.  Dick  played  it  a  year 
and  a  half.  Then  Al  Hodge.  Al  was  Cap- 
tain Video  for  four  and  a  half-years — or 
until  the  ax  fell. 

"Al  is  a  real  wonderful  guy  to  work 
with.  Good  guy  just  to  be  with.  Week- 
ends, he  and  I  would  travel,  play 
theaters,  automobile  shows,  food  shows, 
lot  of  fairs,  and  things  like  that.  We  did  a 
lot  of  telethons,  too,  for  muscular  dystro- 
phy, infantile  paralysis,  cerebral  palsy 
and  so  on.  We  couldn't  either  of  us  sing  or 
dance,  so  we'd  just  get  up  and  make  little 
speeches.  I  used  to  make  one  about  what 
a  date  would  be  like  in  Space.  We  used 


gimmicks,  too,  like  my  standing  up  there 
and  swearing  the  kids  in  as  Rangers. 

"Once,  in  Washington,  D.  C,  we  were 
doing  a  muscular  dystrophy  telethon,  and 
no  calls  coming  in.  Then  we  started  direct- 
ing all  our  pitch  to  the  kids — and,  all  of 
a  sudden,  they  started  coming  down  with 
their  piggy  banks.  That  started  the  par- 
ents. And  we  came  in  over  the  mark 
we'd  hoped  for.  Kids.  They're  potent. 

"It  was  on  April  1,  1955 — my  birthday," 
Don  observes,  "that  the  ax  fell.  The  net- 
work was  being  broken  up.  Du  Mont  was 
taking  off  most  of  its  big  shows.  Captain 
Video  was  one  of  them.  .  .  .  Gave  you  the 
feeling  of  jumping,  without  benefit  of 
parachute,  from  Outer  Space.  If  it  had 
to  go  sometime— and  most  things  do — it 
was  a  good  thing  for  me  that  it  went  when 
I  had  no  such  responsibility  as  I  hope 
to  have,"  Don  grins,  "within  the  next 
few  months. 
. 
I  was  worried,"  Don  admits,  "although 
at  first,  not  too  worried.  With  all  the  ex- 
perience I'd  had  prior  to  and  during  the 
run  of  Video,  it  wouldn't,  I  thought,  be 
too  tough.  But  it  was  tough.  From  April  to 
October,  not  a  TV  show,  not  one.  A  few 
offers  came  along,  but  not  from  the 
networks.  Universal -International  Pictures 
wanted  to  send  me  to  the  Coast.  One  of 
those  stock  $125-a-week  deals.  They  were 
signing  kids  off  the  street  for  that.  I 
didn't  go.  I  had  a  couple  of  chances  to  do 
summer  stock.  I  didn't  take  them.  Figured 
I'd  been  in  Outer  Space  long  enough. 
What  I  needed  now  was  to  ground  myself 
in  the  vicinity  of  Broadway. 

"I  stayed  around.  But  that  summer  of 
'55  was  rugged.  I  spent  most  of  it  on  the 
golf  course.  As  a  result  of  Video's  going 
off,  I  now  have  a  pretty  good  game  of 
golf!  Biggest  thing  that  happened  to  me 
all  summer,  in  fact,  was  that  I  won  a 
pro-amateur  golf  tournament — the  pro 
and  I  won  it — at  Pine  Hollow,  here  on 
Long  Island. 

"Only  other  event  worth  mentioning  is 
that  Al  Hodges  and  I  did  a  play  together 
— 'Detective  Story' — with  a  group  of  ac- 
tors who  live  on  the  Island  and  work  to- 
gether summers.  Al,  who  is  married  and 
has  two  children,  lives  in  Manhasset.  My 
folks  and  I  now  live  in  Franklin  Square. 
Still  in  the  character  he  made  fabulous 
and  famous  from  Coast  to  Coast,  Al — as 
Captain  Video — is  currently  introducing 
science  films,  et  cetera.  Al's  the  right  man 
for  that  job,  all  right — but  in  my  opin- 
ion, the  job  is  not  big  enough  for  the 
man. 

"I  got  my  first  break  in  October,  when 
I  did  a  role  for  Studio  One.  Played  a 
naval  ensign.  I  wasn't  around  long  enough 
— I  got  killed  in  the  first  act!  I  did  some 
slide  films,  too,  including  one  for  the 
Chrysler  Corporation.  Slide  films,  which 
demonstrate  new  selling  techniques,  are 
not  released  to  the  public,  just  to  sales- 
men. Salesmen  of  cars,  chewing  gum, 
household  appliances,  any  commodity  you 
can  name — with  the  exception  of  unem- 
ployed actors!  Pretty  thin  going.  Free- 
lancing is  tough,  anyway.  Especially  when 
you've  worked  steady  all  your  life. 

"Now  comes  November — the  red  letter 
month  in  my  life!  A  new  TV  series  of 
Philip  Wylie  stories  was  being  filmed  in 
Bermuda.  It's  called  Crunch  And  Des — the 
names  of  the  main  characters — and  they've 
now  filmed  thirty-nine  episodes.  I  was 
in  just  one  of  them.  One  out  of  thirty- 
nine  isn't  a  big  deal.  But,  in  that  one,  I 
am  the  villain.  Having  been  a  hero  for 
six  years — and,  prior  to  that,  usually  cast 
as  a  college  boy,  the  kid  next  door,  a  good 
kid — I  found  it  kind  of  fun  to  be  a  rat 


for  a  change.  Besides,  a  trip  to  Bermuda 
for  free  ...  a  week's  work  .  .  .  what  did 
I  have  to  lose? 

"Nothing  to  lose.  And  as  I  found  out, 
everything  to  gain — everything  worth  the 
having.  .  .  .  For,  in  Bermuda,  I  met  Nan. 

"She  was  working  as  cashier  in  the  din- 
ing-room of  the  Princess  Hotel,  where  I 
was  staying.  I  got  there  on  a  Wednesday, 
the  day  before  Thanksgiving,  but  I  didn't 
talk  to  her  (time  wasted)  until  Sunday 
morning.  I'd  noticed  her,  thought  she 
was  cute.  But  I  was  dating  back  home,  so 
I  wasn't  thinking,  or  noticing — much. 
Although,  if  anyone  had  asked  me  to 
describe  her,  I  think  I  could  have  told 
them,  even  then,  that  she's  five-foot-four 
or  five — has  light  brown  hair,  wears  it 
short — blue  eyes,  almost  the  same  color  as 
mine — only  she  has  pretty  eyes,  really 
pretty.  'And,  of  course,'  I  would  have  said, 
'she   smiles   a  lot.' 

"Sunday  morning,  I  had  a  date  to  play 
golf  with  Forrest  Tucker,  the  star  of  the 
Crunch  And  Des  films.  I  was  on  the  porch 
of  the  hotel  waiting  for  him  to  call.  He 
didn't  call.  I  didn't  know  how  to  reach 
him.  So,  when  I  saw  Nan  on  the  porch,  I 
asked  her  if  she  could  get  Tucker's  home 
number  for  me.  She  did,  and  I  called  him. 
There'd  been  a  mix-up  on  time.  He 
couldn't  make  it,  so  I  went  out  and  played 
alone.  Before  I  left,  I  talked  with  Nan 
for  a  few  minutes.  About  baseball  and 
stuff  like  that.  I  thought  she  was  very 
cute  and  pleasant,  but  didn't  think  of 
taking  her  out — even  when  I  heard  my- 
self asking  her  if  she  was  going  to  be  busy 
that  evening.  She  was.  She  was  dating,  too, 
it  seemed.  'Tomorrow  evening,'  I  heard 
myself  saying  then,  'how  about  that?' 
Tomorrow  evening  would  be  very  nice, 
Nan  said. 

"We  went  to  a  place  called  the  Clay 
House,  a  sort  of  calypso  joint,  and  danced. 
I  didn't  intend  to  get  involved.  Neither 
did  she.  Just  out  to  do  a  little  dancing, 
have  a  few  laughs.  What  could  happen? 
But  something  did.  The  next  night,  she 
again  had  a  date  with  another  guy.  I  was 
going  to  ask  her  to  break  it,  but  I  didn't. 
'If  you  get  home  early,'  I  said,  sort  of 
off-hand,  'I'll  be  around.' 

"She  got  home  early.  I  was  'around.'  I'd 
been  around  (and  around)  waiting  for  her 
to  get  back.  When  she  did,  we  took  a 
walk.  And  started  talking.  All  of  a  sudden, 
I  was  telling  her  all  about,  myself  and  my 
family,  about  my  brothers  and  their 
wives — (all  three  of  my  brothers  are  mar- 
ried)— and  about  my  nieces  and  nephews, 
eight  in  all!  Telling  her  other  things,  too. 
The  kind  of  thing  you  don't  tell  people. 
Or  you  tell  to  just  one  person.  The  one. 

"Nan,  whose  full  name  is  Noretta  Ken- 
nedy, told  me  about  her  life,  too.  She 
was  born  in  Sudbury,  Canada,  and  now 
lives  in  Toronto.  She  has  an  older  sister, 
one  brother.  Teaching  is  her  real  job. 
In  Toronto,  she  teaches  the  fourth  and 
fifth  grades  at  Our  Lady  of  Perpetual 
Help,  a  Catholic  grammar  school.  The 
preceding  June,  she'd  taken  a  leave  of 
absence  from  teaching.  She  hadn't  been 
feeling  well  and,  when  her  doctor  advised 
her  to  get  away  and  relax,  she  took  the 
job  of  governess  with  a  family  who  were 
to  spend  the  summer  in  Bermuda.  The 
summer  (and  the  job)  over,  Nan  decided 
to  get  another  job  and  stay  on  a  while. 
The  job  she  got  was  that  of  cashier  at  the 
Princess.  She's  back  in  Toronto  now,  has 
been  for  some  months,  and  is  teaching 
again.  The  kids  in  her  classes,  by  the 
way,  are  all  crazy  about  her. 

"In  the  few  days  left  after  that  night, 
we  talked  and  we  were  together  as  much 
as  possible.  We  went  to  Castle  Harbor,  to 
Elbow  Beach.  The  morning  of  the  day  I 
left  we  went  swimming  at  Coral  Beach. 
.    .    .    Before    I    left,    I    knew.    But,    even 


though  I  told  her  I'd  be  back,  Nan  didn't 
quite  believe  it.  She  sort  of  thought  that, 
when  I  got  back  to  the  normal  routine, 
Bermuda  would  be  out  the  window! 

"You  have  a  dream — I  guess  most  fel- 
lows do,"  Don  says  slowly,  "of  what  a 
girl  couid  be  like.  But  you  tell  yourself, 
they  don't  make  them  like  that.  Then  you 
meet  a  girl  better  than  anything  you 
ever  dreamed.  As  I  did.  Her  way  of 
doing  things.  The  way  she  enjoys  doing 
things.  The  way  everything  seems  so 
much  fun  with  her,  so  much  better  .  .  . 
even  things  I've  done  a  billion  times  be- 
fore .  .  .  like  dancing,  like  singing  to- 
gether, in  the  car,  like  just  talking,  or 
just  not  talking.  We  laugh  together.  She 
thinks  I'm  a  riot,  I  think  the  same  of 
her.  We're  each  other's  best  audience,  I 
think.  The  way  she  feels  about  her  reli- 
gion, which  is  my  religion,  too.  The  way 
she's  helped  me  understand  my  religion 
more  than  I  ever  did  before.  The  way 
her  blue  eyes  are  sometimes  gray,  some- 
times greenish.  The  way  she  smiles,  the 
way   everyone   likes  her.   .   .   . 

I  ou  only  get  one  chance — and  boy,  it 
looked  awful  good!  On  New  Year's  Eve, 
I  flew  back  to  Bermuda.  I  was  down  there 
a  week.  During  that  week — I  don't  know 
what  day  it  was,  or  where  it  was  ...  I 
just  remember  saying,  'I'd  marry  you  to- 
morrow' .  .  .  and  she — you  don't  believe 
in  miracles? — felt  the  same." 

When  the  CBS  contract  was  offered  to 
him  a  couple  of  months  later,  Don  felt  it 
was  the  signature  to  his  happiness.  "It's 
the  standard  contract,"  Don  laughs,  "with 
the  standard  thirteen  week  options — at 
the  end  of  any  one  of  which  I  can  be 
given  the  gate!  Meantime,  it's  'working 
steady'  again.  I  like  that.  I  like  the  part 
I'm  playing.  He's  basically  a  nice  kid,  but 
a  nice  kid  who  is  taking  the  wrong  turn — 
which  gives  the  character  some  variation, 
some  dimension.  I  like  Irving  Vendig,  who 
created  the  show,  and  John  Wallace,  who 
directs  it.  And  the  cast  is  real  great.  Teal 
Ames,  who  plays  my  sister  Sara  Lane,  is 
a  very  sweet  girl.  As  most  of  our  fan  mail 
remarks,  we  look  alike,  Teal  and  I. 

"Nan  also  enjoys  the  show,  which  they 
get  in  Toronto  via  Buffalo,  New  York. 
She  gets  on  the  bus  at  school  at  3:30, 
races  home  and  watches  the  opus.  She's 
watched  other  daytime  dramas,  and  thinks 
this  is  the  best.  Could  she  be  prejudiced? 
.  .  .  But  I  wish  she  were  watching  it 
from  the  living-room  of  the  ranch  house 
we  hope  to  get — hope  to  buy,  if  we  can — 
here  in  Long  Island.  Not  a  big  house — 
(she  has  to  clean  it) — but  big  enough  for 
the  family  we'd  like  to  have  as  soon  as 
we  can,  by  the  grace  of  God. 

"We  write  every  day  and  I  call  her 
once  a  week.  It's  tough,  by  the  way, 
writing  to  a  teacher.  I'm  bad  at  spelling. 
She  could  correct  my  spelling,  but  she 
doesn't.  (A  love  letter  sent  back  with  the 
spelling  corrected — how  about  that?) It's 
tough  being  separated,  period.  We  want  to 
get  married  now.  Seems  a  waste  of  some- 
thing that  shouldn't  be  wasted  even  for  a 
day.  But  a  priest,  a  friend  of  Nan's  in  To- 
ronto— I've  made  three  trips  up  there,  to 
date — advised  us  to  know  each  other  a 
year  before  marrying.  And  Nan's  family 
feels  the  same. 

"We're  hoping,  though,  for  the  fall.  Oc- 
tober, maybe.  Or  maybe  November — 
which  will  be  a  year,  come  to  think 
from  the  day  we  first  met.  .  .  .  We  may 
have  to  wait  longer,  depending  on  her 
family's  consent  to  it  being  sooner,  but  it 
won't  be  any  longer,"  the  young  man 
in  love  says  firmly,  "than  the  first  of  the 
year.  And  then  it  will  be  for  as  long  as 
we  both  shall  live." 

In  love — and  in  luck.  May  it  always  be 
that  way! 


"My  marriage  is 
happier  now  than 
when  I  was  a  bride!" 


says  Mrs.  C.  L.  Kellogg  who  now 
uses  ZONITE  to  douche! 

SAFE!  Many  married  women,  as  well  as 
brides-to-be,  wonder  about  douching  for 
feminine  hygiene.  Such  a  woman  was  Mrs. 
Kellogg  who,  years  after  her  days  as  a 
bride,  later  learned  about  the  importance 
of  following  the  proper  method  of  douch- 
ing with  a  fountain  syringe,  using  an  effec- 
tive yet  safe  solution — like  zonite. 

EFFECTIVE!  No  other  type  liquid  anti- 
septic-germicide for  the  douche  of  all  those 
tested  is  so  powerfully  effective  yet  so  safe 
to  body  tissues  as  zonite. 
HEALTHFUL!  zonite  completely  deodor- 
izes, promptly  washes  away  germs  and 
odor-causing  waste  substances.  A  nurse 
once  advised  Mrs.  Kellogg  that  if  any 
abnormal  condition  exists,  she  should  see 
her  doctor.  She  said  he  would  probably 
recommend  that  she  continue  to  use  zonite. 

DAINTY!  You,  too,  can  be  one  of  the  mod- 
ern women  who  welcome  the  "peace  of 
mind"  and  daintiness  that  zonite  gives 
them  after  monthly  periods  and  other 
times.  You  can  use  zonite  as  directed,1  as 
often  as  needed,  without  the  slightest  risk 
of  injury.  Costs  only  pennies  per  douche. 


use 


U<ro55 


Guaranteed 
^Good  Housekeepi: 

2*?«raiisto 


°Sj 


ONITE 

so  safe  yet 
so  effective! 


People  60  to  80: 
Tear  Out  This  Ad 

.  .  .  and  mail  it  today  to  find  out  how 
you  can  still  apply  for  a  $1,000  life 
insurance  policy  to  help  take  care 
of  final  expenses  without  burdening 
your  family. 

You  handle  the  entire  transac- 
tion by  mail  with  OLD  AMERICAN 
of  KANSAS  CITY.  No  obligation. 
No  one  will  call  on  you ! 

Write .  today,  simply  giving  your 
name,  address  and  age.  Mail  to  Old 
American  Ins.  Co.,  1  West  9th,  Dept. 
L970M,  Kansas  City,  Mo. 


33 


NEW  DESIGNS  FOR  LIVING 


84 


7176 — "Flower"  apron — such  a  lovely  style 
for  serving  guests!  Use  colorful  fabric  to 
form  its  pretty  petals.  Embroidery  transfer, 
directions  for  making  apron,  16  inches 
long.  25$ 

7094 — Adorable  9-inch  doll  and  complete 
10-garment  wardrobe  in  one  pattern.  Thrill 
your    daughter    with    this    wonderful    gift, 
gay  scraps — sew-easy!  25$ 

7173 — Use  remnants  of  checks  or  plaid  'n' 
plain  for  this  crisp  school  dress.  Easy  to 
sew,  jiffy  to  embroider!  Children's  Sizes 
2,  4,  6,  8,  10.  Pattern  parts,  embroidery 
transfer.  State  size.  25$ 

7289 — Crochet  this  stunning  new  doily  in 
lovely  flower-effect.  Use  it  as  a  centerpiece 
in  white  above  a  darker  cloth!  Crochet 
doily  21-inches  in  No.  30  mercerized  cot- 
ton; smaller  one  to  match.  25$ 

7061 — Lovely  centerpiece  for  your  table — 
this  graceful  bowl  and  doily  combination 
crocheted  together  in  gay  contrast  colors. 
Doily-bowl  combination  or  17-inch  doily 
alone;  cinch  to  crochet  in  heavy  jiffy  cot- 
ton. Starch  bowl  for  stiffness.  25$ 

793 — -A  beautiful  flower  for  every  month 
of  the  year — "blooming"  in  vivid  colors  on 
this  cozy  quilt.  Twelve  symbolic  blossoms 
make  easy  embroidery.  Diagrams,  trans- 
fers of  all  12  flowers-of-the-year  included. 
Quilt  72  x  102  inches.  25$ 

7024 — Crochet  a  lovely  rug  for  your  home 
— it's  so  easy  to  do !  Join  colorful  squares — 
add  a  smart  checked  border,  fringe  trim. 
Directions  for  squares  8-inches  in  rug  cot- 
ton. Join  to  form  rugs,  runners  in  any  size 
you  wish.  25$ 


Send  twenty-five  cents  (in  coins)  for  each  pattern  to:  TV  Radio  Mirror,  Needlecraft  Service,  P.  O.  Box  137,  Old  Chelsea  Station, 
New  York  11,  New  York.  Add  five  cents  for  each  pattern  for  first-class  mailing.  Send  an  additional  250  for  Needlecraft  Catalog. 


Rock  V  Roll 


(Continued  from  page  30) 
drastic  effects  had  become  matters  of  pub- 
lic record.  Most  distressing  were  the  riots. 
Some  doubtless  had  been  caused  simply 
because  too  many  rock  'n'  roll  enthusiasts 
tried  to  crowd  into  too  small  a  space. 
Disc  jockey  Alan  Freed — and  the  Cleve- 
land police — got  the  shock  of  their  lives 
from  one  of  the  first  of  these.  When 
Alan,  in  October,  1952,  announced  a  dance 
at  the  10,000-capacity  Cleveland  Arena, 
nearly  30,000  excited  fans  aimed  for  the 
hall.  Caught  completely  by  surprise,  po- 
lice nearly  went  crazy  trying  to  unsort 
the  traffic  jam  and  unscramble  the 
screaming  mob.  The  dance  had  to  be 
called  off  and,  in  furious  headlines,  news- 
papers denounced  Freed  as  some  new 
sort  of  public  enemy  oniy  slightly  less 
sinister  than  Al  Capone.  Other  cities, 
other  disc  jockeys,  have  since  seen  similar 
clamorous  convocations. 

Theaters,  too,  have  drawn  editorial  and 
official  wrath.  In  New  York,  certain  news- 
papers asserted  that  juvenile  miscreants 
who  nearly  dismantled  a  subway  train 
lost  their  inhibitions  in  the  excitement  of 
the  Freed  show  at  the  Brooklyn  Para- 
mount. ...  In  Hartford,  Connecticut,  where 
the  State  Theater  started  rock  'n'  roll 
shows  last  fall,  arrests  totalled  26  by 
April — and  police  instituted  action  to  re- 
voke the  theater's  license,  claiming  public 
safety  was  endangered.  City  officials  side- 
stepped punitive  action  when  the  manager 
raised  the  touchy  censorship  issue,  but  a 
family-relations  expert  made  a  scathing 
denouncement.  Dr.  Francis  J.  Braceland, 
psychiatrist-in- charge  of  the  city's  Insti- 
tute of  Family  Living,  termed  rock  'n' 
roll  "a  communicable  disease"  and  casti- 
gated it  as  "a  cannibalistic  and  tribalistic 
form  of  music  .  .  .  which  appeals  to  ado- 
lescent rebellion  and  insecurity." 

Disc  jockeys  who  take  rock  'n'  roll  as 
a,  fast  pass  to  a  high  rating  drew  a  rebuke 
from  one  of  their  own  fraternity,  veteran 
Fred  Robbins:  "Too  many  disc  jockeys 
are  failing  to  live  up  to  the  imraortance  of 
their  jobs."  He  blamed  them  for  a  ereat 
part  of  "the  rock  'n'  roll  scourge,"  calling 
it  "musical  junk  ...  a  mere  perversion 
of  rhythm-and-blues." 

Some  of  the  most  outraged  protests 
came  from  serious,  learned  students  of 
jazz  who  felt  it  was  a  step  backward. 
Leonard  Feather — who  conducts  the  quiz, 
Platterbrains,  on  ABC  Radio,  and  whose 
"Encyclopedia  Year  Book  of  Jazz"  is  just 
being  released— stated:  "Rock  'n'  roll 
bears  the  same  relationship  to  jazz  that 
wrestling  does  to  boxing.  Jazz  is  an  art 
form.  Rock  'n'  roll  is  a  phony.  It  appeals 
to  morons  of  all  ages,  but  particularly 
to  young  morons.  It  is  unfortunate  that 
so  many  good  musicians  must  play  out  of 
tune  to  make  a  living." 

Also,  as  usual,  there  were  the  irrespon- 
sible persons  who  found  it  a  convenient 
label  to  slap  on  any  youth  problem.  Any 
hoodlum,  j.g.,  could  get  his  name  in  the 
papers  by  saying,  on  apprehension  for  a 
crime,  that  r&r  got  him  gassed  up  for  the 
action.  Any  prophet  of  doom  could  catch 
a  headline  by  asserting  that  here  was  a 
drum  beat  of  delinquency — that,  in  rock 
'n'  roll,  an  increasing  clan  of  Wild  Ones 
had  found  a  national  anthem. 

For  rock  'n'  roll  was  news.  Yet,  in  the 
face  of  such  clamor,  it  rolled  on.  It  also 
showed  signs  of  growing  up.  Well-re- 
garded radio  and  television  shows  pro- 
grammed it.  Networks  continued  their 
existing  shows  and  scheduled  new  ones. 
It  even  became  a  propaganda  weapon 
when  Radio  Luxemburg,  the  most  power- 
ful of  Radio  Free  Europe  stations,  broad- 
cast an  Alan  Freed  rock  'n'  roll  party  on 
Saturday  nights. 


Where  then  does  this  controversial  big 
beat  belong?  Where  did  it  come  from? 
Where  is  it  heading?  What  gives  it  ap- 
peal?   Does  it  rate  approval? 

One  of  the  entertainment  greats  who 
has  participated  in  the  Twentieth  Cen- 
tury's entire  cavalcade  of  music  gave  his 
verdict  on  Johnny  Andrews'  National 
Radio  Fan  Club,  over  NBC.  Irving  Berlin, 
celebrating  his  sixty-eighth  birthday,  re- 
marked, "I  wish  I  had  thought  of  "The 
Rock  and  Roll  Waltz.' " 

Another  ready  to  speak  up  in  its  de- 
fense was  the  ever-contemporary  Paul 
Whiteman.  On  his  fiftieth  anniversary  in 
show  business,  the  beloved  "Pops"  hosts 
The  Best  Bands  In  The  Land,  over  ABC 
Radio.  He  also,  at  this  writing,  had  a  no- 
tion he  might  join  forces  with  Alan  Freed 


to    put    on    some    outdoor    rock 


roll 


shows  in  New  Jersey. 

At  mention  of  rock  'n'  roll,  Whiteman's 
triple  chins  bobbed  in  approval.  "It's  a 
simple  beat,  and  certainly  not  new,  but 
I  think  it  is  good.  To  be  good,  music  has 
to  provoke  an  involuntary  muscular  reac- 
tion from  the  listeners.  Rock  'n'  roll  sure 
provokes  plenty.  Kids  are  full  of  steam. 
Steam  can  run  an  engine  or  bust  a  boiler. 
It's  good  to  see  them  dancing  again." 

Paul  Whiteman,  perhaps  better  than 
anyone  else,  could  understand  how  youth 
hears  a  sound  and  a  rhythm,  takes  it  to 
itself  and  holds  it  almost  as  a  secret  from 
the  older  generation — for  such  hearing 
shaped  his  own  life.  As  much  as  one 
person  can,  he  personifies  the  rhythm  of 
this  century. 

The  waltz,  which  at  its  introduction  in 
Europe  was  called  "the  wickedest  dance," 
had  reached  respectable  popularity  when 
Paul  Whiteman — son  of  Wilburforce  James 
Whiteman,  superintendent  of  music  in 
Denver  public  schools — put  on  his  first 
pair  of  long  pants  in  1906,  to  plav  viola 
with  the  Denver  symphony  orchestra.  In 
1907,  "The  Merry  Widow  Waltz"  was  the 
top  hit  .  .  .  but,  while  the  elegant  glided 
across  polished  ballroom  floors,  that  noisy 
upstart — ragtime — was  gathering  her  forces 
to  crash  the  gate. 

Ragtime  was  a  strictly  American  meld. 
To  the  story-telling  ballads  of  the  prairie- 
crossing  pioneers,  it  added  a  bit  of  the 
excitement  of  the  Sousa  bands — plus  the 
Southern  accent  and  exuberance  of  the 
minstrel  men- — and  mixed  them  up  in  an 
irresistible  rhythm  all  its  own.  ...  In  1911, 
ragtime  found  its  drum  major.  A  young 
songsmith  named  Irving  Berlin  wrote 
"Alexander's  Ragtime  Band,"  and  fol- 
lowed it,  a  year  later,  with  "Everybody's 
Doing  It." 

Right  in  the  vanguard,  playing  violin 
for  the  Turkey  Trot — a  dance  as  jumpy 
as  a  hand-cranked  silent  movie — was  21- 
year-old  Paul  Whiteman.  Arguments  with 
his  music-master  father  about  ragtime- 
versus- classics  had  reached  such  a  pitch 
that  Paul  borrowed  $500  from  his  mother 
and  lit  out  for  San  Francisco's  Barbary 
Coast  .  .  .  where,  in  his  words,  "I  found 
guys  who  could  teach  me  to  play  the 
stuff." 

Ragtime  was  raucous,  and  music,  to 
stir  the  emotions,  must  have  soul  as  well 
as  body.  W.  C.  Handy  introduced  a  yearn- 
ing, with  "Memphis  Blues"  in  1912  and 
"St.  Louis  Blues"  in  1914.  The  sound  was 
changing,  and  usually  it  was  the  itinerant 
Negro  musician — who  had  learned  his 
trade  in  New  Orleans — who  carried  it 
across  the  country.  Most  of  them  played 
by  ear. 

Paul  Whiteman,  in  talking  to  this  re- 
porter, once  made  the  modest  claim: 
"Maybe  the  best  thing  I  ever  did  was  to 
help  start  writing  down  this  music. 
Trouble    was,    in    the    beginning,    it    was 


Mail  Coupon 
below 
TODAY 


Latest  Tall  fashions  styled 
to  fit  well  and  priced  no 
higher  than  regular  misses' 
size  fashions.  Sizes  10  to  20. 
Printed  Cotton  long-torso 
Dress,  $3.79!  Others  $3.69 
up.  Also  coats,  sportswear, 
shoes  and  lingerie. 


Over  Five-Seven  Shop 


Over  Five-Seven  Shops 

Dept.  T-16 

465  Fifth  Avenue, 

New  York  17,  N.  Y 


j  Please  send  me  FREE  Tall  Girls  Style  Book  (T-16) 

I 

I  Name 

I  Address 


Post  Office 


State 


='iniiiniHiiiiiK!iimimiMiimitii!ii!iiiiiiimniimii!iii!ii>i[iMimmillliMiimiiiiiiiii^ 

I    Amazing  Opportunity  To    I 
Earn  Spare-Time  Cash! 

=  Rush  name  and  address  today  tor  = 
=  FREE  money-making  information:  | 
=  Subscription   Agents    Division  = 

MACFADDEN   PUBLICATIONS  i 

205  E.  42  St.,  N.  Y.  17,  N.  Y.  f 

rilll1IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlllllllllMlllllllllllltlllllllllllllllllllllll||lllllllt.- 


I 


P  ^  ^  ^ 

Can't  Get  Rid  of 
Dark  or  Discolored  Skin, 

Freckies?SkinSpots? 


HERE'S  H  ELP !  Mercolized  Wax  Cream 
7  NIGHT  PLAN  Lightens. 
Beautifies  Skin  WhileYouSleep 

Just  follow  the  famous  Mercolized  Wax 
Cream  7  Night  Plan  to  a  whiter,  smoother, 
lovelier  skin.  Smooth  rich,  luxurious  Mer- 
colized Wax  Cream  on  your  face  or  arms 
just  before  retiring  each  night  for  one  week. 
You'll  begin  to  see  results  almost 
at  once  .  .  .  lightens  dark  skin, 
blotches,  spots,  freckles  as  if  by 
magic!  This  is  not  a  cover  up  cos- 
metic; Mercolized  Wax  Cream 
works  UNDER  the  skin  surface. 
Beautiful  women  have  used  this 
time-tested  plan  for  over  40  years  —  you'll 
love  it's  fast,  sure,  longer  lasting  results ' 
Mercolized  Wax  Cream  is  sold  on  100%  guar- 
antee or  money  back.    Start  using  it  now  I 
MERCOLIZED  WAX  CREAM 
At  All  Drug  and  Cosmetic  Counters 


Lightens  dark 
skin  and  ugly 
spots  almost 
ovornight. 


85 


"Stars  in 
Style" 

only  5^9 


Scene  Stealer 

in  a  slim-trim,  sleek 
little  moc ...  gaily  fringed 
all  around!  Light-stepping 
new  super-flex  sole.  Starry- 
eyed  Fall  colors.  Dream-smooth 
leather— supple  suede— 
very-new  Corkie!; 

Complete  Selection 

4"  -  6" 

At  your  favorite  store,  or  write: 

HUSSCO  SHOE  COMPANY,  Honesdale,  Pa. 

In  Canada:  Canada  West  Shoe  Co.,  Winnipeg 


SONG  POEMS  WANTED 

To  be  set  to  music.    Send  your  poems  today  for  free 
examination! 

J.   CHAS.    McNEIL    (A.   B.    Master  of   Music) 
510-MG    So.    Alexandria  Los  Angeles  5,    Calif. 


.  Hair 

L  OFFFace 

IP      Lips...Arms...Legs 

Afonir  Happy!  After  trying  many  things,  I  de- 
veloped a  simple,  inexpensive  method  to  remove 
unsightly  hair.  Its  regular  use  helps  thousands 
retain  admiration,  love,  happiness.  My  FREE  book  ex- 
plains method,  proves  success.  Mailed  in  plain  enve- 
lope. Also  TRIAL  OFFER.  Write  Annette  Lanzette, 
P.O.  Box 4040,  Mdse.Mart.Dept.  254,Chicago54.  111. 

SHEETS,  TOASTERS, 
TOWELS,  MIXERS,etc. 
GIVEN  TO  YOU  FREE! 


B*OP„ 


Hundreds  of  famous,  na- 
tionally advertised  products 
to  choose  from — furniture, 
rugs,  lamps,  slip  covers,  sil- 
verware, china,  draperies. 
You  get  $50.00  —  $100.00 
and  more  in  merchandise 
just  by  being  Secretary  of  a 
Popular  Club  you  help  your 
friends  form.  It's  easy !  It's 
fun !  Nothing  to  sell,  noth- 
ing to  buy.  Write  today. 


I  Popular  Club  Plan,  Dept.  J918,  Lynbrook,  N.  Y.    | 
J  Send  Big  FREE  276-Page  FULL-COLOR  Catalog  | 


Name.. 


T 
V 

R        I 

•  Address I 


entirely  spontaneous.  A  guy,  unable  to 
read  a  note,  and  with  no  score  to  prompt 
him,  might  be  hot  one  night,  dull  the  next. 
All  he  could  do  was  try  to  remember  how 
to  play  it." 

The  new  music  didn't  really  have  a 
name.  "Ragtime"  no  longer  fit.  "Synco- 
pation" indicated  that  the  accent  had 
shifted  to  usually  unaccented  beats,  but 
that  word  was  too  much  of  a  mouthful. 
"Jazz"  was  still  a  dirty  word  .  .  .  when 
printed  at  all,  it  turned  up  on  off-brand 
records  spelled  "jass"  or  "jaz."  .  .  .  But 
it  was  a  sound,  it  was  a  beat.  And,  after 
World  War  I,  the  kids — hearing  King 
Oliver,  Louis  Armstrong  and  other  great 
Dixielanders — were  in  no  mood  to  be  per- 
snickety. They  added  a  final  "z"  and 
that  was  it. 

They  already  had  a  good  name  for  their 
favorite  dance.  The  Turkey  Trot's  suc- 
cessor, invented  by  a  musical  comedy  ju- 
venile, was  first  called  "Mr.  Fox's  Trot." 
But,  by  1920,  Mr.  Fox  was  forgotten  and 
"jazz"  and  the  "foxtrot"  matched  up. 
When,  in  1925,  the  foot-flying  Charleston 
and  the  slithering  Black  Bottom  came 
along,  "flaming  youth"  had  found  its 
sound  and  fury.  The  sheik  and  the  flap- 
per were  kicking  up  their  heels.  .  .  . 
Comparing  the  resulting  uproar  with 
what  rock  'n'  roll  gets  today,  Pops  White- 
man  says,  "This  ain't  nothin'.  We  were 
crazier.  Movie  stars  like  Mary  Pickford 
and  my  wife  (Margaret  Livingstone)  were 
forever  waggling  their  knees  in  Charles- 
ton contests.  Newspapers  were  screaming 
and  everybody  was  having  a  time." 

It  is  now  apparent  that — in  the  midst 
of  that  age  of  bathtub  gin,  bell-bottomed 
pants,  bobbed- off  skirts,  rolled  stockings 
and  coonskin  coats — modern  music  reached 
a  crossroads  and  branched  into  two  fac- 
tions which  foreshadowed  both  progres- 
sive jazz  and  rock  'n'  roll.  .  .  .  Whiteman 
set  the  direction  toward  progressive  jazz 
with  what  he  called  "symphonic  synco- 
pation." In  1924,  he  commissioned  George 
Gershwin  to  write  "The  Rhapsody  in 
Blue"  and  played  it  to  climax  the  first 
jazz  concert  in  New  York's  dignified 
Aeolian  Hall.  The  historians  say,  "White- 
man  made  a  lady  out  of  jazz." 

Listeners,  as  well  as  professional  musi- 
cians, contributed  to  the  advance  toward 
more  learned  popular  music.  Public  school 
classes,  radio  and  the  movies  raised  the 
level  of  music  education.  As  extempo- 
raneous jazz  was  compressed  into  the 
more  formalized  swing  of  the  Thirties, 
the  kids  greeted  it  with  wild  enthusiasm. 
They  danced  in  the  aisles  when  they  heard 
Benny   Goodman's  wonderful   clarinet. 

Today's  young  people  who  hear  and 
love  the  intricate  counterpoint  of  Stan 
Kenton,  the  Sauter-Finnegan  orchestra 
and  others,  have  carried  this  even  fur- 
ther. So  learned  an  authority  as  Fred- 
erick E.  Bergbrede,  president  of  one  of 
America's  oldest  schools,  The  Brooklyn 
Conservatory  of  Music,  calls  progressive 
jazz,  "classical  music  in  the  modern  idiom" 
.  .  .  and  adds,  "It  displays  the  greatest 
imagination  and  requires  the  greatest 
technique  from  both  the  composer  and 
the  musician."  And  Dr.  Bergbrede  also 
had  praise  of  that  other  branch  of  jazz 
which  developed  into  rock  'n'  roll.  "It's  a 
healthy  rhythm.  People  need  that  kind 
of  musical  outlet." 

The  popularization  of  the  big  beat  was 
a  development  to  be  expected,  for  rhythm 
is  the  original  source  of  communication  in 
music.  As  Count  Basie — who  is  heard 
with  Alan  Freed  on  CBS  Radio's  Satur- 
day-night Rock  'N'  Roll  Dance  Party — 
says,  "You  go  too  far  out  with  jazz  and  it 
gets  too  cool,  you  gotta  come  back." 

Rock  'n'  roll,  according  to  some  of  the 
experts,  has  always  been  with  us.  It  is 
basic  American  music,  made  up  of  con- 
tributions   from    people    from    all    of    the 


countries,  mixed — or  mixing — into  its  pres- 
ent form.  Alan  Freed  thinks  that  "Yankee 
Doodle"  may  have  been  America's  first 
spectacular  rock  'n'  roll  tune.  "The  Colo- 
nial kids  were  sore  because  the  British 
troops  had  been  quartered  in  their  homes. 
They  couldn't  protest  any  other  way,  so 
they  took  an  old  English  tune — some 
people  trace  it  to  the  time  of  Crom- 
well— made  up  new  words  for  it,  changed 
the  beat  and  ganged  up  to  sing  it  and 
torment  the  Redcoats." 

Whiteman  remembers  when  he  first 
heard  rock  'n'  roll  in  Birmingham,  Ala- 
bama: "It  was  just  after  the  first  World 
War,  and  Octavus  Roy  Cohen  and  I  were 
walking  around.  He  wrote  Negro  stories 
and  was  a  pretty  good  student  of  all  phases 
of  the  life  in  the  Negro  community.  We 
stopped  in  at  a  Holy  Roller  meeting  to 
hear  the  religious  shouting  during  the 
'relaxing  hour.'  That  was  rhythm,  all 
right!  They  sure  got  the  message.  Of 
course,  the  Negroes  weren't  the  only  ones. 
There  was  that  fellow  Roedehever,  who 
played  trombone  for  the  evangelist,  Billy 
Sunday.  Do  you  know  he  had  fans 
swarming  around  him  worse  than  the  kids 
gather  around  Elvis  Presley  today?" 

The  traditional  "religious  shouting"  and 
jazz  blended  in  an  occasional  off-brand 
disc  during  the  early  days  of  the  recording 
industry.  Then,  in  1922,  came  the  well- 
defined  drive  to  reach  the  Negro  market 
with  so-called  "race"  records.  Chicago's 
top  Dixielander,  King  Oliver,  took  his 
band,  which  included  Louis  Armstrong, 
to  Richmond,  Indiana,  to  record  a  series 
for  the  Gennett  company.  In  New  York, 
about  the  same  time,  Fletcher  Henderson 
and  Bessie  Smith  were  also  aiming  at  that 
trade.  Some  of  those  platters  have  since 
become  jazz  classics — and,  even  when  they 
were  made,  they  sold  outside  their  in- 
tended limited  market.  .  .  .  "People  can 
fuss  about  what  Variety  calls  the  'leerics' 
of  rock  'n'  roll,"  Whiteman  comments, 
"but  then,  if  you  thought  a  Bessie  Smith 
record  was  too  'blue'  for  the  kids  to  hear, 
you  hid  it  away.  But,  if  you  liked  jazz, 
you  bought  it." 

Through  the  years,  many  small  com- 
panies have  continued  to  press  the  shout- 
ing records.  They  also  found  hillbilly 
records  profitable.  This  strong,  basic 
rhythm  was  popularized  by  many  .  radio 
shows.  When  the  giants  of  the  recording 
industry  added  them  to  their  catalogues, 
they  aimed  for  greater  dignity  by  calling 
the  race  records  "rhythm-and-blues"  and 
the  hillbilly,   "country-and- Western." 

The  two  styles  began  to  merge  as  early 
as  1938.  Steve  Sholes,  head  of  RCA  Vic- 
tor's country-and- Western  department — 
the  man  who  persuaded  that  company  to 
bet  big  money  on  Elvis  Presley — traces 
their  bid  for  wider  popularity:  "In  swing, 
there  was  plenty  of  beat.  The  kids  could 
dance  to  bands  such  as  Artie  Shaw's, 
Glen  Miller's,  Tommy  Dorsey's.  Then, 
during  the  war — because  big  companies 
had  big  investments  in  big  stars,  and  the 
amount  of  shellac  was  limited — we  went 
into  an  era  of  singers.  The  rhythm-and- 
blues  and  the  country-and-Western  de- 
partments  were   neglected." 

It  left  the  field  wide  open  for  the  smaller 
outfits  .  .  .  and  it  also  gave  them  a  brand- 
new  buying  public.  "From  the  big  com- 
panies," says  Sholes,  "the  kids  were  get- 
ting nothing  to  jitter  to,  so  they  went  out 
and  found  it."  Among  the  race  records 
which  pleased  them  were  those  of  Roose- 
velt Sykes  and  The  Cats  and  Fiddle. 
"They  had  that  hand-clappin'  sort  of  beat, 
a  rough  form  of  rock  'n'  roll,"  Sholes  ob- 
serves. 

Recording  the  less  sophisticated  forms  of 
music  has  taken  Sholes  into  many  a  remote 
area.  He  heard  the  beat  again  in  Texas: 
"One  of  our  hillbilly  stars  called  it  to  my 
attention.    He  said  that,  whenever  he  had 


— 


some  of  the  younger  Western  singers  in 
his  car  and  was  driving  cross-country, 
they  never  let  him  keep  the  radio  on  the 
regular  hillbilly  programs.  They  hunted 
for  disc  shows  which  featured  what  they 
called  'cat'  records." 

Sholes  listened,  too — and,  when  he 
heard  one  by  a  singer  named  Elvis  Pres- 
ley, he  began,  for  reasons  of  his  own,  to 
track  him  down:  "There  he  was,  using 
the  exact  same  words  as  Big  Boy  Crudup, 
in  a  Crudup  song,  in  the  Crudup  way. 
Now,  I  had  recorded  Big  Boy  down  on  a 
little  farm  in  the  back  stretches  of  Mis- 
sissippi, and  I  knew  this  had  never  been 
written.  Big  Boy  could  neither  read  nor 
write — he  could  just  sing  up  a  storm.  So, 
when  I  heard  this  kid  singing  like  him,  I 
wanted  to  know  how  come."  Sholes'  trail 
led  to  Sun  Record  Company  in  Memphis, 
to  Sam  Phillips,  Presley's  discoverer,  and 
eventually  to  Presley  himself.  "Sure 
enough,"  says  Sholes,  "he  told  me  they'd 
had  an  old  Crudup  record  in  his  family. 
He  had  sung  along  with  it  and  learned  it 
by  heart." 

It  was  more  than  a  good  imitation.  "El- 
vis had  something  of  his  own,"  Sholes 
says.  "The  way  he  sang  the  beat  made  me 
go  back  to  RCA  Victor  and  recommend 
that  we  try  to  buy  his  contract  from  Phil- 
lips. It  was  a  risky  thing,  you  know.  He 
might  be  great  in  the  sticks,  but  would 
the  rest  of  the  country  like  him?  Would 
we  get  our  money  back?  In  the  office,  we 
talked  it  over  and  the  rest  of  the  guys 
decided  to  go  along  on  my  say-so." 

Alan  Freed's  rise  to  national  attention 
also  held  an  element  of  chance.  Born  in 
Salem,  Ohio — pop.  10,000 — he  learned  his 
music  at  the  family  piano.  Every  Sunday 
night,  they  had  a  songfest  and  the  high 
point  came  during  visits  of  his  mother's 
brothers,  who  had  been  minstrel  men. 
"Some  of  their  style  must  have  rubbed  off 
on  me,"  says  Alan.  Classics,  however, 
were  his  first  love.  "At  thirteen,  I  wanted 
to  play  trombone  in  a  Symphony.  But,  at 
fifteen,  I  turned  a  deaf  ear  to  everything 
but  swing.  Benny  Goodman  was  my 
hero." 

His  knowledge  of  classics  gave  him  his 
first  disc-jockey  show  on  a  small  station. 
But,  because  he  also  liked  Bessie  Smith 
records,  he  started  to  do  some  jazz  re- 
search. By  the  time  he  arrived  at  a 
Cleveland  station  in  1949,  he  was  a  rhythm- 
and-blues  fan.  "I  enjoyed  those  off- brand 
records  which  came  into  the  station,  so  I 
took  to  slipping  them  into  my  pop  music 
shows.  Perhaps  one  in  each  twenty  rec- 
ords I  played  was  a  rhythm-and-blues." 

He  had  no  thought  of  specializing — until 
Leo  Mintz,  owner  of  The  Record  Rendez- 
vous, came  to  him  and  said,  "I'll  buy  you 
a  radio  show  if  you'll  play  nothing  but 
rhythm-and-blues."  Freed  said,  "Are  you 
crazy?  Not  enough  people  would  listen. 
Those  are  race  records." 

"Not  any  more,  they  aren't,"  said  Mintz. 
"I've  been  watching  my  customers."  Freed 
launched  the  show,  soon  knew  from  re- 
quests that  he  had  listeners,  and  adds 
wryly,  "I  thought  it  would  be  nice  to  get 
them  together  for  a  dance.  I  worried 
whether  there  would  be  enough  people  to 
pay  expenses  for  a  big  place  like  the 
Arena.    And  then  the  fid  blew   off." 

Sound  waves  generated  by  those  30,000 
clamoring  rock  'n'  roll  fans  reached  New 
York,  and  stations  began  bidding  for  Freed. 
He  settled  for  disc  shows  on  WINS,  tapes 
them  for  release  in  Baltimore,  St.  Louis 
and  Kansas  City,  and  goes  "live"  on  the 
CBS  Radio  Rock  'N'  Roll  Dance  Party. 

Freed's  week-long  engagement  at  the 
Brooklyn  Paramount  attracted  97,000  peo- 
ple. There  were  no  disorders.  Says  the- 
ater manager  Gene  Pleshett:  "We  let  the 
kids  know  we  expected  them  to  behave, 
and  we  had  plenty  of  help  to  keep  the 
situation  under  control.  A  few  kids — may- 


be twenty  out  of  the  97,000  total — got  to 
be  a  nuisance  to  those  sitting  near  them,  so 
we  took  them  out  and  gave  them  their 
money  back.  About  half  of  those  re- 
turned to  apologize  and  beg  to  be  re-ad- 
mitted to  the  theater.  I  worked  at  the 
Paramount  on  Broadway  during  both  the 
Benny  Goodman  and  the  first  Sinatra  en- 
gagements, and  they  were  wilder. 

"And  that  subway  train  that  got  torn 
up  .  .  .  how  do  we  know  whether  those 
kids  were  in  the  theater?  Or,  if  they 
were,  how  they  acted  in  other  situations? 
We  had  no  malicious  damage  here.  When 
the  kids  got  excited,  they  did  bounce  up 
and  down  pretty  hard,  so  now  we've  got 
some  seats  out,  having  the  springs  re- 
placed. But  that's  only  normal  wear  and 
tear." 

Perhaps  the  lack  of  serious  commotion 
surprised  everyone — for,  when  the  Feld 
Brothers'  "Biggest  Rock  'n'  Roll  Show  of 
1956"— headlining  Bill  Haley  and  His 
Comets — packed  5,500  young  people  into 
the  4,400-seat  Warner  Theater  in  Atlan- 
tic City,  Variety  headlined,  "Rock  'N'  Roll 
Makes   News:    Teenagers   Behave." 

One  who  was  not  surprised  was  Ted 
Steele,  whose  Bandstand  on  WOR-TV,  in 
New  York,  brings  high-school  students 
to  the  studio  for  a  daily  dancing  party. 
Said  Ted,  "We've  been  playing  rock  'n' 
roll  since  it  first  reached  the  hit  list  and 
we've  had  no  problem.  In  fact,  we're 
crazy  about  it,  for  all  of  a  sudden  we  no- 
ticed the  kids,  instead  of  just  shuffling 
around,  were  learning  to  dance  again." 

The  Arthur  Murrays  are  so  enthusias- 
tic about  rock  'n'  roll  that  they  devoted  an 
entire  television  program  to  demonstrating 
steps.  "We're  all  for  it,"  says  Mrs.  Mur- 
ray. "Arthur  thinks  it  indicates  that 
world  tensions  are  easing  up.  Kids  dare  be 
kids  again,  with  more  playful,  jollier  dances 
than  we've  been  seeing."  She  herself 
found  it  a  welcome  contrast  to  the  sultry, 
slow-moving  "hugging"  dances  which  she 
thinks  too  potent  in  arousing  emotions. 
"Kids  who  monkey  around  with  such 
dangerous  business  can  get  carried  away 
and  ruin  their  lives.  We  like  energetic 
dances  for  teens.  In  rock  'n'  roll,  they 
can  jump  around,  have  a  wonderful  time. 
Rock  'n'  roll  dangerous?  If  a  teen  couple 
really  dances  it,  I  don't  see  how  they  have 
sufficient  energy  left  to  want  anything 
more  than  a  hamburger  and  milk." 

Willie  Bryant,  the  ABC  Radio  r&r 
specialist,  who  is  a  former  "mayor"  of 
Harlem,  meets  another  criticism  head-on, 
with  the  sage  remark,  "You  don't  hear 
music  playing  on  the  corners  where  the 
fighting  starts." 

How  long  will  rock  'n'  roll  last?  Paul 
Whiteman  says,  "Three  years  ago,  when 
some  people  were  giving  it  five  weeks,  I 
said  five  years.  But  we'll  always  have 
traces  of  the  beat."  Meanwhile,  Freed 
points  out  that  rock  'n'  roll  is  changing. 
"It's  not  enough  now  for  a  number  to  be 
merely  loud  and  wild.  The  kids  are  get- 
ting choosey.  They're  going  for  slower, 
more  musical  records." 

Joe  Carlton,  who  is  the  artists-and-re- 
pertoire  chief  for  RCA  Victor's  popular 
music  division,  confirms  their  guess — with 
sales  records  to  back  his  opinions.  He 
also  comments:  "One  good  effect  is  that 
it  is  teaching  kids  to  have  a  basic  appre- 
ciation of  harmony.  Analyze  some  of  the 
hits  and  you'll  find  that,  musically,  they 
are  intricate.  When  kids  can  pick  out 
■  those  harmonies,  rather  than  just  melody, 
they've  learned  something." 

That  learning,  he  thinks,  predicts  a  last- 
ing effect:  "Rock  'n'  roll  is  like  a  new 
word  added  to  the  language.  The  beat 
will  be  refined  and  used  in  a  more  subtle 
manner  than  you're  now  hearing,  but  I 
doubt  if  it  ever  will  be  lost.  A  hundred 
years  from  now  there  will  be  traces  of  it 
in  the  classics." 


Just  What  the 
Dentist  Ordered! 


Brush  teeth  three  times  a 
day — help  prevent  tooth 
decay!  Easy  with  a  TOTE- 
BRUSH  kit  in  your  purse 
or  pocket.  Full-size  tooth- 
brush folds  into  Styrene 
case  no  bigger  than  ciga- 
rette pack.  Tube  of  Ipana 
included.  Case  protects 
brush  against  germ  infec- 
tion. Ideal  for  travel.  Keep 
one  in  bathroom  cabinet, 
too.  Choice  of  beautiful  as- 
sorted colors.  Atdrug.dept. 
stores,  beauty  shops  and 
luggage  shops  everywhere. 


only 

$1 


1 


Purse-size 
fold-away  toothbrush  kit 
with  tube  of  Ipana  toothpaste 


TOTE-BRUSH,  INC.,  CHICAGO  14,  ILLINOIS 


Corns  and  Callouses 
litt  Right  Out! 

—  fiisr-  - 

Never  before 
anything  like  it 

No  waiting  for  relief  when 

you  use  Dr.  SchoU's  Zino-pads.  They  stop  pain  at 
its  source  .  .  .  ease  new  or  tight  shoes  .  .  .  stop  corns, 
callouses  before  they  can  develop  .  .  .  remove  corns, 
callouses  one  of  the  quickest  ways  known  to  medical 
science.  New  skin-matching  color;  worn  invisibly. 
Try   them!   At  Drug,  Shoe,   Dept.,  5-lOj!   Stores. 


D-Scholls  Zino-pads 


BUNIONS 

DOCTOR'S  FAST  RELIEF ! 

To  instantly  lift  painful  shoe 

friction  and  hide  the  unsightly 

bulge,  wear  Dr.  SchoU'a  BUNION  REDUCER— a 

cushioning  shield   of  soft  rubber.   Worn  invisibly 

under  stocking.  Helps  preserve  shape  of  shoe.  Only 

Ibi  each.  At  Drug,  Shoe,  Dept.  Stores  everywhere. 


87 


88 


Trevet 
convertible 


Budget  blues 

over  children's  shoes? 
Here's  big  news . . . 

smart  mothers  choose 

Money-Saving  Shoes  for  Boys  &  Girls 


$350 


to 


$595 

*^(some  styles  higher) 


ROBERTS,  JOHNSON  &  RAND,  Division  of  International  Shoe  Co.,  St.  Louis  3,  Mo. 
Makers  of  Poll-Parrot  and  Scamperoos  Shoes  for  children;  Rand  and  Randcraft  Shoes 
for  men  and  boys;  Trim  Tred  and  Heller  Skelter  Shoes  for  women;  Star  Brand  and 
Hy-Test  Work  Shoes;  and  Official  Boy  Scout  and  Girl  Scout  Shoes. 


Character  Analysis  at  Sight 

New  booh,  gives  full  information  on  how 
to  read  and  judge  character  of  your 
friends,   neighbors   &    business   associates. 

Quick,  easy,  illustrated  method. 
Send  $2.50  check   or   M.O. 

A.  HALL.   Box  58.  Cranford.   N.  J. 


LEARN   AT   HOME 

Practical  nurses  are  needed  in  every 
community .  . .  doctors  rely  on  them  . . . 
patients  appreciate  their  cheerful,  ex- 
pert   care.    You    can    learn    practical 
nursing  at  home  in  spare  time.  Course 
endorsed  by  physicians.  57th  yr.  Earn 
while  learning.    High  school  not  re- 
quired. Men,  women,  18  to  60.  Trial  plan.  Write  nowl 
CHICAGO    SCHOOL   OF    NURSING 
Dept.  29,  25  East  Jackson  Blvd.,   Chicago  4,   111. 
Please  send  free  booklet  and  16  sample  lesson  pages. 

A  arm . 

C  i  i  y 


State- 


-Age- 


LARGE  BUST 

STYLE  CATALOG 

FREE! 

Sizes 
34  to  60 

Wide  variety  of  bras 
in  long  lines,  ban- 
deaus,  built  upshoul- 
derst  strapless,  etc., 
all  -  in  -  ones,  bras'- 
lettes,  bathing  suits, 
slips,  n  itegowns, 
corsets,  girdles,  spe- 
cial inner  controls 
to  cup  large  bust 
into  smaller,  youth- 
ful shape.  Savings 
up  to  50o0!  Money  back  guarantee. 
Mailed  in  plain  wrapper  FREE!  Style 
101  (pictured)  only  $2.98.  Order 
C.O.D.   plus   postage  or  postpaid. 

TESTED  SALES,  Dept.  CL-9809WA 
296  Broadway,   N.  Y.  C. 


You  Can't  Always  Tell 


(Continued  from  page  49) 
to  it,  you  can't  really  analyze  why  women 
judge    people    more    astutely    than    men. 
They  just  know." 

All  of  which  brings  us  right  back  to 
Kit's  original  thoughts  of  the  man  she 
eventually  married.  "Actually,"  John  con- 
fesses, "she  wasn't  so  far  from  wrong  .  .  . 
about  what  she  thought  I  was,  that  is. 
About  her  spending  any  more  time  with 
me — well,  she  was  'way  off  base.  Here's 
the  way  it  happened. 

"Back  in  1933,  I  was  working  and  living 
in  Boston.  One  of  the  girls  in  our  group 
was  a  graduate  of  William  and  Mary  Col- 
lege, and  on  the  occasion  of  a  house  party 
in  Dedham,  Massachusetts,  she  suggested 
a  sorority  sister  of  hers  as  a  blind  date 
for  me.  The  girl  was  Kit,  and  she  came  up 
from  her  home  in  Washington,  D.  C,  to 
spend  a  week  with  these  friends  in  Ded- 
ham. At  the  time,  I  guess  I  was  somewhat 
of  a  practical  joker,  and  I  can  hardly  blame 
her  for  her  reaction.  What  I  did  was  dress 
up  in  what  we  considered  to  be  the 
togs  of  an  out-and-out  intellectual  ..  .  . 
black  string  tie,  pince-nez  glasses — the 
works!  In  nothing  flat,  I  scared  the  day- 
lights out  of  Kit  with  my  act  and  schedule 
of  planned  entertainment  for  her  week  in 
Boston  .  .  .  concerts,  erudite  lectures, 
poetry  readings,  et  cetera.  The  whole  gang 
was  in  on  it.  Believe  me,  we  had  worked 
up  one  of  the  deadliest  programs  of  events 
that  has  ever  been  put  down  on  paper! 
And  it  was  absolutely  no  time  at  all  be- 
fore Kit  excused  herself  and  made  her 
proclamation  to  her  hostess." 

It's  with  good  reason  that  John  credits 
Kit  for  always  giving  people  the  benefit 
of  a  doubt.  On  the  occasion  of  their  first 
meeting — after  the  joke  had  been  ex- 
plained— she  not  only  gave  him  the  benefit 
of  what  must  have  been  a  pretty  sub- 
stantial doubt,  but  she  also  gave  him  the 
opportunity  to  make  it  up.  What  the  aver- 
age person  expects  out  of  a  blind  date  is 
hard  to  say.  What  John  got,  after  a  week 
with  Kit,  was  purely  and  simply  the  good 
old-fashioned  "bite" — and  he's  stayed  bit- 
ten ever  since. 

"After  a  week  in  Boston,"  John  con- 
tinues, "Kit  went  back  home,  and  my 
courtship  proceeded  along  the  lines  of 
letters,  telephone  calls  and  overnight  bus 
trips  from  Boston  to  Washington.  Those 
bus  trips  nearly  ruined  me — physically 
and  financially!  Finally,  it  occurred  to  me 
that,  not  only  was  I  unhappy  in  the  wool 
business  in  Boston,  but  I  would  obviously 
never  be  able  to  save  a  cent  with  this 
expensive-type  courtship  going  on.  So  I 
headed  for  the  Capital  City." 

It  wasn't  long  before  he  was  established 
in  the  Capital  Transit  Company,  and  in 
due  time  had  saved  enough  money  to  of- 
fer Kit  marriage  and  all  the  luxuries  of  a 
one-room  apartment — accommodations  far 
afield  from  the  lovely,  comfortable  home 
they  now  own  in  Rye,  New  York.  But 
their  marriage  took  place  in  the  slightly 
post-Depression  year  of  1937,  and  they 
considered  themselves  pretty  lucky. 

Honeymoon?  Certainly.  One  week  in 
New  York!  "That  had  not  been  our  orig- 
inal honeymoon  idea.  But,  just  before  we 
were  married,  the  Transit  Company  of- 
fered me  a  new  and  improved  job,  and  I  • 
had  to  get  back  to  Washington  earlier  than 
we  had  planned.  So  we  settled  for  a  week 
in  New  York." 

But  changes  in  plans  have  never  been 
anything  to  stop  John  and/or  Kit  Daly. 
Take  John's  career,  as  an  example.  When 
he  first  enrolled  in  Boston  College,  he  in- 
tended to  enter  the  medical  profession. 
This  was  in  the  early  thirties — right  in  the 


heart  of  the  Great  Depression.  Earning 
your  way  through  college  in  those  days 
was  really  tough.  After  two  years  of  grind- 
ing away  day  and  night,  John  decided  it 
wasn't  worth  it.  There  was  too  little 
money  .  .  .  too  many  years  ahead  before 
he  could  even  dream  of  setting  up  an 
office. 

Not  that  John  Daly  is  afraid  of  work. 
Not  by  a  long  shot.  That  one-week  honey- 
moon turned  out  to  be  the  last  vacation 
John  and  Kit  had  for  sixteen  years.  And, 
since  then,  they've  managed  only  two  five- 
day  trips  to  Nassau. 

No,  John  Daly  is  not  the  man  to  shirk 
work.  A  typical  week's  schedule  should 
clear  up  any  doubts.  Every  Monday 
through  Friday,  John  boards  the  9:04 
train  from  Rye  and  arrives  in  his  ABC 
office  at  about  ten.  From  ten  to  11:30,  he's 
in  his  office  handling  the  administrative 
details  connected  with  his  duties  as  Vice 
President  in  Charge  of  News,  Special 
Events,  Sports  and  Public  Affairs.  From 
11:30  until  luncheon — usually  a  business 
lunch — he  has  his  first  meeting  on  the . 
five-nights-a-week  TV  program,  John 
Daly  And  The  News.  At  this  meeting,  he 
goes  over  the  news,  gets  an  insight  into 
the  films  that  might  be  used  that  night 
and  "dummies  up"  the  show. 

Back  from  lunch,  he  goes  into  a  second 
meeting  for  the -night's  newscast.  By  now 
there  are  some  obvious  modifications  that 
must  be  made  on  the  original  insight  of 
the  program  .  .  .  perhaps  weather  con- 
ditions have  delayed  the  flight  of  pre- 
viously expected  films,  or  the  quality  of 
an  on-the-spot  film  has  turned  out  not 
to  be  up  to  par,  or  an  unexpected  news 
break  enters  the  picture.  During  this  ses- 
sion, the  show  is  re-dummied.  At  3:30, 
John  returns  to  his  office. 

By  5: 30,  he  shoos  his  secretary  home  and 
returns  to  the  studio,  where  he  works  on 
the  news  show  until  air  time — 7: 15  P.M. 
in  New  York.  After  that — it  says  in  very 
fine  print  some  place — he  can  then  go 
home.  However,  this  he  seldom  manages 
more  than  three  nights  a  week.  But,  when 
he  does,  he's  home  with  Kit  by  nine  and 
dining  by  9:45  or  ten. 

I  hen  there's  Saturday.  All  his  to  devote 
to  his  family.  Well,  usually  it's  his  to  de- 
vote to  his  family.  "Right  now  the  up- 
coming Presidential  conventions  are 
throwing  a  crimp  into  my  hard,  fast  rule 
about  having  Saturday  off.  Next  Saturday, 
I'll  have  to  be  out  of  town   .  and   the 

Saturday  after  that.  But  I  think  I'll  have 
the  following  Saturday  at  home." 

As  for  Sunday,  he  has  the  entire  morn- 
ing and  afternoon  at  home — but  must  be 
in  New  York  by  9:00  P.M.  for  What's  My 
Line?— on  CBS-TV— and  it's  apt  to  be 
12:30  A.M.  by  the  time  he  again  sets  foot 
inside  his  door. 

A  man  to  shirk  work?  Hardly.  And,  im- 
possible as  it  may  seem,  his  family  will  be 
the  first  to  say  he  doesn't  shirk  them, 
either.  Despite  the  fact  that  his  profes- 
sion has  necessitated  his  being  away  from 
the  family  for  periods  of  time  .  .  .  during 
the  war  years,  he  was  overseas  and,  since 
then,  many  a  good  hurricane,  flood  or 
political  convention  has  found  John  Daly 
reporting  from  the  front  lines  ...  he  has 
made  a  concerted  effort  to  remain  "one  of 
the  family." 

During  dinner  or  a  midnight  raid  on  the 
refrigerator,  Kit — who  has  had  an  evening 
nap  so  she  can  be  wide  awake  for  his  ar- 
rival on  late  nights — gives  him  a  thorough 
run-down  on  the  day's  events,  particularly 
as  they  pertain  to  the  three  Daly  off- 
spring: Buncy,  10,  Charles,  15,  and  John- 
ny, 18.  Of  course,  when  Johnny's  away  at 


Yale  and  Charles  at  Phillips-Andover,  the 
news  from  these  two  fronts  comes  via  the 
mails  or  weekend  visits.  But  Buncy,  with 
her  long.-standing  mania  for  horses  and 
newly-acquired  interest  in  the  piano,  keeps 
the  Daly  home  from  really  quieting  down. 
The  Daly  children,  themselves,  find  it 
hard  to  think  of  their  father  as  a  celeb- 
rity. To  sportsminded  Johnny,  Dad  is  a 
great  golf  partner  and  swimmer — even  if 
he  is  somewhat  of  a  stickler  on  school 
grades.  To  Charles,  whose  interests  lie  in 
mechanics  and  design,  Pop  is  the  guy  who 
has  always  shown  genuine  interest  in  his 
car  and  airplane  designs,  who  lost  and 
paid  up  a  fifty-dollar  bet  to  him  on  an 
historical  question — but  is  pretty  much  of 
a  bug  on  making  him  pick  up  his  room 
when  it  gets  to  looking  like  the  aftermath 


of  a  hurricane.  To  Buncy,  Dad  is  the  man 
she  loves  most  in  the  whole  world  for  so 
many  reasons — like  taking  her  to  horse 
shows,  encouraging  her  with  piano  lessons 
(in  fact,  letting  her  know  she's  really  very 
good)  and  not  letting  her  big  brothers 
tease  her  too  much. 

As  for  Kit,  John  is  still  the  same  man 
she  married — although  not,  thank  heavens, 
the  character  she  first  met — the  man  with 
the  quick  sense  of  humor,  the  hearty  and 
infectious  laugh  .  .  .  the  man  who  went  to 
such  great  lengths  to  court  her  and  has 
continued  to  go  to  great  lengths  to  keep 
her  and  her  family  happy  and  content. 
And,  in  view  of  her  original  mistaken 
summation,  she's  quick  to  modify  John's 
to:  "Women  usually  know — but  some- 
times  they,  too,  must  revamp  decisions." 


Born  To  Be  Loved 


(Continued  from  page  47) 
The  Doctor's  Wife,  approved  my  choice  of 
name  for  her  brain-child — if  he  could  be 
called  Adam,  too,  after  her  own  son.  So 
Timothy  Adam  Palmer  he  became.  A 
little  more  than  a  year  later,  when  I  knew 
I  was  going  to  be  a  mother,  Timothy  was 
the  only  name  I  wanted.  Eric  was  de- 
lighted, too — it's  his  first  name,  although 
he  doesn't  use  it — and  it  goes  so  beauti- 
fully with  Teran. 

"Now,  in  our  script,  this  wife  I  play 
will  soon  be  bringing  home  a  little  sister 
for  her  Timothy.  I  want  to  call  the  new 
baby  Linda — and  someday,  when  we  have 
a  sister  for  our  Timothy,  I  hope  she  will 
be  Linda.  It  would  seem  that  the  Palmers 
and  the  Terans  might  have  much  in 
common!" 

In  the  meantime,  young  Timothy  Teran 
is  a  baby  with  a  personality  of  his  own, 
and  a  strongly  independent  spirit.  Al- 
ready he  has  a  firm,  authoritative  grasp 
on  everything  that  comes  within  his  reach, 
as  if  assured  that  all  the  good  things  of 
life  are  there  for  the  taking.  His  smile  is 
dazzling  for  those  he  loves.  There  is  grave 
dignity  on  his  tiny  face  as  he  cdhtemplates 
the  world  from  his  bassinet — the  trees 
that  tower  so  high  above  him  on  the 
seven  and  one-half  Connecticut  acres  on 
which  the  Terans  now  live,  trees  he  will 
soon  be  skinning  up  and  jumping  from,  no 
doubt  unsettling  his  mother's  nerves  with 
his  daring.  The  little  lake  on  the  prop- 
erty fascinates  him,  those  two  acres  of 
sparkling  water  on  which  one  day  he 
will  be  sailing  boats  or  skimming  a  canoe. 

At  the  moment,  however,  he's  a  cuddly, 
blond  cherub  whose  hair  has  a  reddish 
tinge,  like  his  maternal  grandmother's, 
although  Pat's  hair  is  a  dark  brown  and 
his  daddy's  is  almost  jet  black.  If  he  has 
his  father's  eyes,  they  will  be  a  deep,  in- 
tense blue,  but  they  might  darken  to  the 
hazel-brown  of  his  mother's.  Pat's  eyes 
grow  darkly  purple  in  certain  lights,  when 
she  wears  certain  colors  and,  against  her 
pale  gardenia  skin,  framed  in  the  masses 
of  soft  dark  hair,  they  give  her  the  look 
of  a  portrait  by  Velasquez. 

The  little  boy  must  surely  inherit  some 
of  the  varied  talents  of  his  parents,  or 
have  some  of  them  "rub  off"  on  him 
through  the  years.  Eric  Teran  is  an  in- 
dustrial designer,  a  consultant  for  the 
Bulova  company  among  others,  a  man 
who  is  obsessed  with  the  idea  of  combin- 
ing beauty  and  utility.  He  works  on  both 
packaging  ideas  and  product  development, 
and  many  of  the  things  in  the  Teran 
household  reflect  his  ideas.  When  he  first 
saw  Pat  struggling  to  tie  a  bib  on  their 
squirming  offspring,  he  devised  an  ab- 
sorbent paper  bib— cut  to  fit  correctly 
over  the  baby's  head  and  stay  flat  and 


close  on  the  small  shoulders — and  the 
problem  was  solved  in  a  few  moments. 
For  her  wedding  ring  (they  were  married 
September  27,  1954),  he  designed  graceful 
spirals  of  diamond-set  platinum,  twined 
around  a  series  of  four  star  sapphires,  a 
beautiful  and  unique  piece  of  jewelry. 
Last  Christmas,  he  designed  another  ring, 
with  the  crest  of  the  Alba  Teran  family 
engraved  on  the  sapphire  itself. 

From  Pat,  too,  their  son  must  inherit 
a  love  of  beauty.  In  her  teens,  she  studied 
art  and  showed  great  talent  for  it,  before 
deciding  on  acting  as  her  career.  From 
both  his  parents,  Timothy  will  fall  heir  to 
a  sense  of  the  drama  and  adventure  of 
life.  Both  have  traveled  a  great  deal,  both 
have  cosmopolitan  backgrounds  and  tastes, 
balanced  by  a  love  of  home  and  family  life. 

The  home  they  bought  five  months  be- 
fore Timothy  was  born  is  an  ivy-covered, 
gray  stone,  eleven-room  house,  a  copy  of 
a  Normandy  chateau,  complete  with  little 
tower.  "In  the  most  heavenly  setting,"  as 
Pat  describes  it,  "and  the  house  attracted 
me  immediately  because  it  has  no  waste 
space.  There  is  no  real  basement.  You  go 
down  a  few  steps  to  a  bar  and  playroom, 
with  laundry  equipment,  deep-freeze  and 
workshop  area  just  beyond,  but  separate. 
Very  compact  and  very  moderate,  in  spite 
of  the  classic  architecture.  Eric  has  a  big 
studio,  with  high  windows — often  clut- 
tered, because  the  only  time  I  tried  to 
clean  it  up  for  him  I  threw  away  some 
newspapers  he  was  saving  and  needed. 
So  now  all  I  dare  do,  without  express 
permission,  is  empty  ashtrays." 

Timothy's  nursery  is  the  room  across 
from  his  parents'.  It  was  the  one  good 
paint  job  in  the  house,  and  it  happened  to 
be  pink,  so  they  left  it.  Pat  doesn't  think 
he'll  mind,  although  she  is  introducing 
some  blues  into  the  decor  to  satisfy  his 
male  ego,  in  case  he  begins  to  notice  later 
on.  The  rest  of  the  rooms  had  been  dec- 
orated in  strong  Western  colors— the 
vivid  yellows  and  bright  hues  of  the 
Southwest.  They  seemed  incongruous  in 
that  French  architecture,  coupled  with  the 
predominance  of  French  furnishings  which 
the  Terans  both  like,  so  now  the  colors 
run  to  softer  shades,  the  pinks  and  lilacs 
and  lavenders  and  blues.  "My  mother 
teases  us,  says  these  must  be  Eric's  family 
colors,  because  they  have  crept  in  every- 
where. They  seem  so  right,  somehow. 
Our  dining  room,  however,  is  gold  and 
white  and  green.  But  our  own  bedroom 
is  a  pale  blue,  with  raspberry  curtains." 

When  the  Terans  bought  the  house, 
they  weren't  looking  for  anything  on  such 
a  grand  scale.  Quite  the  opposite.  They 
wanted  a  weekend  retreat,  to  get  away 
from  their  New  York  apartment. 

Pat  saw  it  first.  Eric  was  away,  and  she 


I  Trapped  My  Man! 

My  sparkling  smile  won  my  wonderful  man. 
I  was  ashamed  to  smile  until  a  dentist  told 
me  how  I  could  have  a  brilliant,  captivating 
smile  with  the  regular  use  of  Iodent  No.  2. 

I  was  amazed  when  ugly  Smoke  Smudge 
and  Surface  Stains  disappeared  after  the 
first  few  brushings.  Take  a  tip  from  a  gal 
who  knows  .  .  .  get  a  tube  of  Iodent  No.  2 
today  and  you  too  can 
enjoy  the  glamour  of  a 
Hollywood  smile. 

MADE 

BY  A 

DENTIST 


MATERNITY 
STYLE  CATALOG 


SAVE  MONEY-Shop  by  Mail !  FREE  cata-     fc£ 
log  pictures  hundreds  of  exclusive  ma-    <SL.' 
ternity  fashions.  World's  Largest.  Complete 
Selection,  Dresses,  Suits,  Mix  &  Match  Sep- 
arates, Sportswear,  Girdles,  Lingerie;  $2.98 
to  $22.98.  Catalog  mailed  tn  plain  envelope. 

C  RAWFORD'S 

Dept  35,  8015  Wornall.  Kansas  City  14,Mo. 


Clear  up  your 

pimples  FAST.,, 

leave  no  stars 

Don't  handle,  tug  or  pick  those 
"hickiesl"  Pimples,  blackheads 
easily  infect  .  .  .  leave  lifetime 
scars.  Clear  up  those  pimples  and 
blackheads — oh  so  gently,  safely 
and  cover  them  while  you're 
clearing  them)  with  Pompeian 
Milk  Cream  —  pink  magic  proved 
in  the  laboratory  to  possess  a 
greater  "zone  of  inhibition"  than 
all  the  leading  medications  tested  I 
If  s  the  milk — chemists  say — that 
makes  PC  11 — the  hexachloro- 
phene — so  far  more  effective  in 
starving  skin  bacteria  that  cloud 
your  complexion. 

TRY  IT.. PROVE  IT.. TRIAL  TUBE  25t 

Send  25c  for  a  trial  tube.  Watch 
your  skin  grow  healthier  again. 
Pompeian  Corp.,  Balto.  24,  Md., 
Dept.    TV-9.    Or    get    Pompeian 

Milk    Cream    from 

your  druggist  tonight. 


POMPEIAN 


MILK  CREAM 


89 


OTHERS  ritlEND 


Fi 


90 


The   soothing, 
refreshing  skin  con- 
ditioner that  pene- 
trates and   brings 
relief  to  numbing, 
tingling  muscles  in 
back  and  legs  .  .  . 
ends  the  dis- 
(J?£?s!i&\  comfort  of 
tight,  dry 
skin. 

At  Drug  Stores  Everywhere. 

THE  S.S.S.  COMPANY,  ATLANTA,  GA. 


te. 


MAKE  MONEY  with' 
Simple  CARTOONS: 


book  everyone  who  likes  to  draw 
should  have.  It  is  free;  no 
obligation.  Simply  address 

Cartoonists* 

Dept.  599 


EXCHANGE 
Pleasant  Hill,  Ohio 


,1   I    I    111,  SIMULATED    DIAMOND    LADIES' 

v\\*  ILL '//      Engagement  and  Wedding  Rings 
3%^         ONLY    $100  ofp|rrf^s 

'You'll   love   these  rings— the   simu- 
lated diamonds  look  like  a  "million 
dollars"    and    sparkle    with    many 
stones.      SEND     NO     MONEY.      Pay 
\  V  \  i  ,  1 1  i  i  »  /  /""/  /         postman     only     $1     plus     postage 
,\\\\  I  1  II  I  /  /  If///,     for    both    rings.    If    you    send    $1 
v^N        _  .■■^—  —.         '//  cash  with  order  we  pay  all  postage. 
GUARANTEE:    Wear  rings    XO  days. 
If    not   pleased    return    for    refund. 
White   or   yellow   gold   color   effect 
or   sterling   silver   mountings. 
HAREM     CO.,     Dept.     A141 
Both    Rings    for    $1       30  Church    St..    New  York  7.    N.   Y. 

Sell  Biggest  Bargalnsin  CHRISTMAS  CARDS 


'p^GS 


From  100  *1  Boxes 

QUICK  and  EASY 


FOR 

AMPtES 


I 

I 

|    Full  Address.. 


Name- 


While  they  last,  get  fine  Christmas  and  Every- 
day Assortments  at  factory  closeoot  prices!  $1 
boxes  as  low  as  35c;  lovely  $1.25  assortments 
only  60c.  Friends  bay  on  sight,  pay  you  biggest 
profits.  No  experience  needed.  Over200brandnew 
Assortments— the  latest  in  TALL  cards.  Name- 
Imprinted  Cards  and  Stationery.  Gifts  and  Novelties.  Get 
Assortments  on  approval;  Imprints  Album,  Color  Catalog 
and  Bargain  list  FREE.    Mail  coupon  or  postcard  NOW  I 

BOULEVARD  ART  PUBLISHERS,  Dept.  559-M ij 
235  South  Wabash  Ave.,  Chicago  4,  III.  I 

I 


Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 
New  Way  Without  Surgery 

Science  Finds  Healing  Substance  That 
Relieves  Pain— Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 

For  the  first  time  science  has  found  a 
new  healing  substance  with  the  astonishing 
ability  to  shrink  hemorrhoids  and  to  relieve 
pain  —  without  surgery. 

In  case  after  case,  while  gently  relieving 
pain,  actual  reduction  (shrinkage)  took 
place. 

Most  amazing  of  all  —  results  were  so 
thorough  that  sufferers  made  astonishing 
statements  like  "Piles  have  ceased  to  be  a 
problem!" 

The  secret  is  a  new  healing  substance 
(Bio-Dyne*)  — discovery  of  a  world-famous 
research  institute. 

This  substance  is  now  available  in  sup- 
pository or  ointment  form  under  the  name 
Preparation  H.*  Ask  for  it  at  all  drug  count- 
ers—money back  guarantee.    *Keg.  V.  8.  Pat.  Ott. 


read  an  ad  in  the  newspaper.  Thirty-five 
miles  out  of  New  York,  accessible  by  car 
or  by  train.  Out  of  curiosity,  she  looked 
at  it.  She  knew  at  once  it  was  no  weekend 
retreat.  She  was  sure  that,  under  any 
circumstances,  it  was  not  for  them.  But 
she  wanted  Eric  to  see  the  divine  house  in 
the  beautiful  setting,  the  lake,  the  little 
bridge  to  a  private  island.  "Don't  get  any 
ideas,"  she  told  him.  "I  just  want  you  to 
see  this  place." 

She  should  have  known  better.  Seeing 
wasn't  enough.  Or  rather,  it  was  too  much. 
Now  he  wanted  the  house,  too.  And  they 
decided  that  if  they  moved  into  it  as  a 
full-time,  year-around  home,  they  could 
swing  it.  Besides  they  were  lucky.  Many 
people  had  the  same  idea,  but  now  it  was 
fall  and  the  owner  had  to  get  away  to  a 
milder  climate  before  winter  set  in.  So 
they  made  their  deal.  With  Peter,  their 
handsome  boxer,  they  were  all  established 
in  their  new  home  several  months  be- 
fore the  Terans  became  a  family,  instead 
of  merely  a  couple. 

Now  everything  was  in  readiness  for 
Timothy.  Early  in  April,  Pat  had  recorded 
enough  shows  to  last  until  she  could  go 
back  to  work.  But  Timothy  decided  to 
take  his  time  about  being  born,  and  they 
got  down  to  two  shows.  So  the  night  of 
April   10   was   set  for   another   recording. 

"When  I  saw  the  doctor  that  day,"  Pat 
recalls,  "he  said  he  thought  I  might  go  to 
the  hospital  that  night.  I  told  him  the 
idea  was  just  fine,  except  that  I  had  to  do 
five  shows  before  the  day  was  over.  He 
laughed  and  said  it  was  all  right,  but  I 
had  better  get  up  to  the  hospital  when  I 
was  finished.  So  I  worked  until  10:30  in 
the  evening,  with  the  rest  of  the  cast, 
growing  more  and  more  aware  of  the 
short  intervals  between  what  seemed  like 
little  beginnings  of  pain.  Then,  with  my 
mother  and  Eric,  we  departed  for  the  hos- 
pital with  all  my  things — looking  for  all 
the  world  like  a  gypsy  caravan. 

"We  arrived  as  the  staff  was  changing 
shifts  and,  when  I  was  told  to  sit  down  a 
few  minutes  and  relax  until  the  nurse 
could  get  me  ready,  it  seemed  to  me  that 
no  one  realized  what  those  pains  were 
beginning  to  be  like.  They  were  all  quite 
calm  and  matter  of  fact.  The  doctor  had 
said  Eric  could  remain  with  me.  But  his 
attitude  was  obviously,  'What's  a  mere 
man  doing  here?'  and  I  felt  he  was  quite 
right.  'You  get-  some  rest,'  I  told  him. 
'This  is  my  job.'  So  I  wasn't  at  all  pre- 
pared when  I  looked  up  suddenly  a  little 
later  and  saw  him,  dressed  in  a  white 
gown,  standing  over  me.  It  meant  more 
than  I  can  say.  He  was  with  me  the 
whole  time — except  during  the  actual  de- 
livery— and  I  was  deeply  touched  by  it. 

"Eric  and  my  mother  saw  the  baby  for 
the  first  time  together,"  Pat  smiles.  "'He 
looks  exactly  like  you,'  my  husband  told 
my  mother.  He  reported  to  me  that  she 
practically  melted  on  the  floor  at  that  and 
he  could  have  scraped  her  up  with  a  but- 
ter knife.  Timothy  is  the  first  grandchild 
in  the  family,  the  first  of  what  I  hope  will 
be  many  nephews  and  nieces,  and  he 
stands  a  good  chance  of  being  badly 
spoiled  by  idolizing  grown-ups." 

Pat's  mother  had  a  gift  charm  for  her 
bracelet — a  tiny  golden  turtle,  for  a  little 
boy  who  was  a  bit  slow  in  arriving.  "I 
think  that's  sort  of  mean  to  our  Timo- 
thy," Pat  protested  laughingly.  Her  moth- 
er smiled  and  said,  "Well,  it  was  very 
expensive,"  as  if  to  make  up  for  her  joke. 

Eric,  too,  had  a  gift  charm  for  Pat's 
bracelet,  the  very  day  their  son  was  born. 
A  little-boy  gold  cherub.  Pat  is  still  try- 
ing to  figure  out  if  he  ordered  both  a  girl 
and  a  boy-cherub  and  is  perhaps  saving 
the  other  one  for  a  later  date.  Before  she 
left  the  hospital,  she  had  tiny  golden 
boys  put  on  cuff  links  for  Eric. 


Timothy  Teran  will  grow  up  bi-lingual, 
even  from  the  first.  Eric  is  a  linguist 
who  is  at  home  in  seven  languages,  while 
Pat  speaks  French  and  some  Spanish  and 
Italian.  Timothy  will  learn  English  and 
French  first.  "When  in  doubt,"  says  Pat, 
"I  make  up  a  word  in  French.  Sometimes 
I  make  up  the  grammar,  too,  I'm  afraid, 
and  I  get  very  involved  with  the  idioms. 
But  Timothy  will  be  learning  and  I  shall 
have  to  brush  up  with  him." 

Because  they  are  busy,  home-loving 
people,  the  baby  has  not  changed  the  rou- 
tine of  their  lives  as  much  as  they  thought 
he  might:  "The  first  year  we  were  mar- 
ried, Eric  and  I  went  out  a  great  deal.  It 
was  fun.  We  liked  eating  out  in  restaur- 
ants. We  have  always  loved  going  to  the 
theater,  and  always  will.  But  more  and 
more  we  find  ourselves  liking  to  be  home. 
Eric  likes  good  food,  and  he  thinks  I'm  a 
good  cook.  I  like  to  cook.  And  now  we 
even  have  a  small  combination  apart- 
ment-office in  New  York,  as  well  as  the 
country  house,  so  that  when  I  have  a  late 
show  or  an  early  morning  rehearsal 
— or  Eric  has  to  be  in  town  very  early  or 
late  at  night — we  can  go  to  the  apartment 
and  stay  overnight. 

"I  take  care  of  Timothy  myself  when- 
ever I  am  home.  I  want  to  do  this  as 
long  as  I  can.  There  is  a  lovely  cottage 
on  our  property  in  the  country,  where  a 
couple  with  three  young  children  five. 
And,  when  I  see  how  beautifully  their 
children  are  cared  for,  I  have  no  hesitancy 
in  leaving  Timothy  with  them.  I  feel  that 
I  can  continue  appearing  on  Broadway 
and  can  make  radio  and  television  com- 
mitments— before  Timothy  was  born,  I  did 
the  narration  for  'Peter  Pan'  on  TV,  and 
American  Inventory  just  before  that,  and 
there  are  many  plans  ahead  for  me. 

And,  of  course,  I  love  playing  Julie 
Palmer.  I  couldn't  give  her  up.  Julie  is 
a  very  real  person.  I  like  her  point  of 
view  about  living,  about  bringing  up  her 
own  little  Timothy.  I  think  that  she  and 
Dr.  Dan  Palmer  (that's  Karl  Weber,  who 
is  just  wonderful)  are  a  fine  couple.  I 
have  great  respect  for  them,  and  for  their 
standards.  The  things  that  happen  to 
them  are  mostly  the  result  of  the  kind  of 
mistakes  we  all  might  make  at  some  point 
in  our  lives.  The  whole  story  strikes  a 
wonderful  balance  between  humor  and 
drama,  a  warm  intimacy  which  is  delight- 
ful. I  feel  that  it  is  written  with  respect 
for  each  role  and  each  point  of  view,  and 
I  know  there  is  mutual  respect  among  all 
of  us  who  work  on  it." 

Pat  and  Eric  also  have  this  mutual  re- . 
spect  for  each  other's  work.     "Eric  is  in- 
telligent," Pat  says  proudly.     "You  see  it 
in  his  approach  to  everything. 

"Eric  is  completely  in  sympathy  with 
my  career.  I  have  been  an  actress  since  I 
was  thirteen,  and  he  understands  my  need 
to  continue.  He  saw  me  on  stage  in  a  Broad- 
way play,  before  we  ever  met.  He  listens 
to  The  Doctor's  Wife  or  any  other  pro- 
gram I  am  on,  when  he  possibly  can — 
there  have  been  at  least  ten  Studio  One 
leads,  Kraft  Theater,  and  practically  every 
other  big  TV  dramatic  show.  Eric  thinks 
I  have  a  tremendous  future  in  my  pro- 
fession. Isn't  it  wonderful?"  And  then 
Pat  laughs,  knowing  how  lucky  she  is 
that  he  feeis  this  way. 

As  for  Timothy,  their  plans  for  him  cen- 
ter at  this  moment  around  a  few  simple 
basic  hopes  and  prayers:  That  he  grow 
up  healthy  and  happy.  That  he  mature 
into  a  well-rounded  individual,  who  can 
contribute  his  share  to  the  work  and  the 
happiness  of  the  world.  That  he  be  strong 
enough  and  poised  enough  to  work  out 
his  own  problems,  to  adapt  himself  hap- 
pily to  the  world  he  will  have  to  live  in. 
And  that  he  find  the  kind  of  love  and  joy 
which  they  have  found  together. 


Man  Wanted! 


(Continued  jrom  page  32) 
Memphis  Tennessee,  paid  his  fee  and 
sang  a  song.  "I  didn't  even  know  it  was 
a  record  company,"  he  says.  "I  thought 
it  was  just  one  of  those  stores  you  can 
make  a  record  in."  The  platter  was  to 
be  his  mother's  birthday  present. 

Today,  at  21,  that  same  Elvis  Aron 
Presley,  who  has  not  yet  had  either  a 
vocal  lesson  or  an  acting  lesson,  holds 
impressive  recording,  motion  picture  and 
personal  appearance  contracts.  He  also 
owns  a  dazzling  wardrobe,  four  Cadillacs, 
a  Messerschmidt  sports  car  and  the  hot- 
test motorcycle  money  can  buy.  He 
shares  his  good  fortune  with  his  parents. 
He  has  given  them  a  $40,000  ranch  house 
and  has  persuaded  his  father  to  retire 
at  the  age  of  39.  He  makes  light  of  this 
largess  by  saying,  "Why  should  he  work 
when  I  can  make  as  much  in  a  day  as  he 
used  to  in  a  year?  Besides,  look  at  all 
they  have  done  for  me." 

His  possession  of  the  voice  and  style  to 
match  the  mood  of  teenagers,  who  come 
to  a  boil  over  rock  'n'  roll,  has  made  him 
the  most-discussed  entertainer  in  America 
today.  Even  those  critics  who  turned 
caustic  about  his  uninhibited  gyrations  in 
front  of  the  TV  camera  must  concede  his 
remarkable  accomplishment  in  simultane- 
ously putting — not  one — but  jour  records 
on  Variety's  scoreboard  of  top  talent  and 
tunes:  "Heartbreak  Hotel,"  "Blue  Suede 
Shoes,"  "I  Was  the  One,"  and  "I  Want 
You,   I   Need   You." 

While  calling  his  style  "animalistic" 
and  dubbing  him  "Pelvis  Presley,"  those 
same  acid  commentators  had  to  acknowl- 
edge that,  not  since  Frank  Sinatra's  debut, 
had  anyone  approached  Presley's  direct 
communication  with  an  audience.  One 
even  admitted  grudgingly,  "Let's  face  it. 
He  tops  Sinatra.  Everybody  in  show  busi- 
ness knows  that  Sinatra,  right  from  the 
start,  had  the  aid  of  one  of  the  best  press 
agents.  When  bobbysoxers  swooned  in 
Times  Square,  that  response  was  'hypoed.' 
This  kid  hasn't  even  got  a  press  agent. 
Sure,  the  publicity  crew  over  at  RCA 
Victor  has  done  a  good  job  putting  out 
stories,  but  don't  forget  they  have  a  lot 
of  other  artists  to  handle  at  the  same 
time.  And  his  managers  have  done  fine 
with  personal  appearances — but  where  has 
he  played?  In  the  sticks.  He's  done  nine 
network  television  shots,  but  he's  not 
yet  had  a  Broadway  booking  and  that's 
where  the  big  press  coverage  starts.  In 
other  words,  he's  just  a  little  guy  from 
the  deep  South  who  has  set  the  fire  all 
by  himself.  And  no  one  ever  did  that  be- 
fore. This  kid's  a  natural." 

Although  he  has  become  a  national 
legend,  the  person  who  appears  to  be 
least  impressed  by  this  phenomenon  is 
Presley.  He  regards  himself  as  a  novice, 
eager  to  learn,  to  grow,  to  develop.  Asked 
how  he  gets  a  hall  rocking,  he  replies,  "I 
don't  know,  but  I  hope  it  never  stops." 

Off  stage,  he  would  rather  sit  around 
with  people  his  own  age  than  garner 
more  publicity  by  talking  to  interviewers. 
Some  young  relative  or  long-time  friend 
usually  travels  with  him  and  his  manager, 
Col.  Tom  Parker,  or  Parker's  associate, 
Tom  Diskin.  Elvis,  in  a  hotel  room,  is 
like  a  caged  tiger,  restless,  distracted, 
eager  to  get  out  where  people  are  hav- 
ing fun.  When  a  carnival  or  amusement 
park  is  within  reach,  Elvis  and  friends 
prowl  the  midway,  often  to  the  distress 
of  concessionaires,  who  find  Elvis  has  a 
deadly  aim  with  a  baseball  and  a  way 
of  acquiring  a  large  number  of  pandas 
and  dolls. 


Neither  engaged  nor  married,  he  has 
an  eye  for  a  pretty  girl.  When,  during 
rehearsal  for  the  Milton  Berle  show,  he 
learned  it  was  a  dancer's  birthday,  he 
ordered  a  cake  and  candles  and  surprised 
her  by  leading  cast  and  crew  in  singing, 
"Happy  birthday,  dear  Millie  .  .  ." 

He  neither  drinks  nor  smokes,  follow- 
ing precepts  learned  during  childhood  in 
Tupelo,  Mississippi.  Born  a  twin,  he  came 
in  for  an  extra  measure  of  devotion 
after  his  brother  died  at  birth.  His  father 
was  a  truck  driver  and,  since  both  parents 
sang  in  the  choir  of  the  Pentacostal 
Assembly  Of  God  church,  Elvis  joined  in, 
too.  He  loved  the  gospel  songs,  strong 
in  beat  and  exuberant  in  emotion. 

When  he  was  twelve,  they  moved  to 
Memphis,  where  his  father  worked  in  a 
paint  factory.  Elvis,  a  child  who  had 
played  alone  in  his  own  back  yard,  found 
it  hard  to  make  friends.  In  L.  C.  Hume 
High  School,  he  was  no  big  wheel.  "The 
girls  didn't  go  for  me,"  he  confesses.  He 
went  out  for  football  and  baseball  but 
was  too  slight  in  build  to  make  the  team 
in  either  case.  He  appeared  only  twice  in 
school   entertainments. 

At  home,  however,  it  was  a  different 
story.  On  his  thirteenth  birthday,  his 
parents  gave  Elvis  a  twelve-dollar  mail- 
order guitar.  While  other  kids  swam,  he 
sat  out  in  the  back  yard  picking  out  tunes. 
Some  were  gospel  songs,  'some  family 
ballads,  some  tunes  he  learned  listening 
to  phonograph  records.  When  kinfolk  got 
together,  Elvis  suffered  none  of  the  shy- 
ness which  beset  him  with  strangers.  He 
sang  out,  as  he  does  now,  "just  the  way 
I  feel." 

That's  the  way  he  sang  on  the  record 
for  his  mother — the  record  which  changed 
his  life.  As  he  finished,  the  man  at  the 
controls  stepped  out  of  the  booth  and 
asked  if  he  were  a  professional  singer, 
or  if  he  wanted  to  be. 

Elvis  thought  this  no  time  to  speak  of 
dreams  he  had  cherished  while  strum- 
ming his  guitar.  He  laughed  it  off,  saying 
he  didn't  especially  care.  Today,  he  says, 
"Singing  for  a  living  was  the  farthest 
thing  from  my  mind.  I  just  wanted  to  see 
what  I  sounded  like." 

When  the  man  took  his  name  and  ad- 
dress and  said  he  would  call  if  some- 
thing suitable  came  up,  it  became  a  nice 
story  to  tell  his  mother,  not  anything  to 
count  on.  Ambitious  Elvis  found  a  job 
driving  a  truck  for  an  electrical  con- 
tractor and  studied  in  night  school,  pre- 
paring to  become  an  electrician. 

But  the  man  didn't  forget.  Sam  Phillips, 
owner  of  Sun  Record  Company,  called 
Elvis  several  months  later.  "He  had  a 
song  he  wanted  me  to  sing,"  says  Elvis. 
"It  was  a  real  slow-type  ballad." 

Phillips  had  a  small  combo  back  him — 
guitar,  string  bass  and  drums.  Elvis  re- 
calls: "We  worked  three,  four  hours  on 
that  song  and  never  did  get  it  to  per- 
fection. Then  we  took  a  break  and  I 
started  kidding  around  with  a  tune  I 
knew— 'That's  All  Right.'  All  my  life  I've 
heard  stuff  with  a  beat  and  I  get  a  bang 
out  of  it.  That's  what  w£  finally  re- 
corded." 

Effects  were  far  reaching.  In  Memphis, 
a  disc  jockey  put  it  on  the  air.  Elvis, 
afraid  his  friends  would  rib  him,  hid  out 
in  a  movie  house.  But,  at  the  station,  the 
phone  really  started  ringing:  They  had 
to  repeat  the  record  seven  times  that 
evening. 

Elvis  Presley's  days  as  an  apprentice 
electrician  were  almost  over.  With  disc- 
jockey   Bob    Neal    as    his    manager,    he 


'uu?tyfa*2f  ~» 


•i 


«» 


PERMANENT  DARKENER  'A 
FOR  LASHES  AND  BROWS  t>L 

•  A  beautiful  TINTI 

•  ONE  APPLICATION  LASTS  4-5  WEEKS! 
Takes  just  seconds  to  apply  .  .  .  stays  on 
4  to  5  weeks!  "Dark-Eyes"  is  the  perfect 
way  to  make  eyelashes  and  brows  com- 
pletely natural  looking  .  .  .  and  it  will  not 
harden  or  break  theml  "Dark-Eyes"  is  NOT 
A  MASCARA!  Will    not   stick   to   eyelash 

{curler.  Eliminates  the  bother  of  daily  eye 
make-up.  It  is  PERMANENT, 
SWIMPROOF.  SMUDGEPROOF. 
TEARPROOF,  and  SMEAR. 
PROOF! 

$1.00  (plus  lax)  at  leading  drug, 
dept.  and  variety  chain  stores. 

"DARK-EYES"  COMPANY,  Dept.  P-96 

3319  W.  Carroll  Ave.,  Chicago  24,  III. 

I  indole  25«  (coin  or  ilompi-lon  included)  for  TRIAl  SIZE 

PACKAGE  of  "Dork-Eyes"  with  direction!. 

check  color:    Q  Block    □  Brown 


Nome — 
Addren- 

7o«n_ 


.Stole. 


■#" HIGH  SCHOOLS 


No  classes  to  attend.  Easy  spare-time  train-  L 
ing  covers  big  choice  of  subjects.  Friendly  \ 
instructors;  standard  texts.  Full  credit  for^ 
previous  schooling.     Diploma  awarded. 
Write  now  for  FREE  catalog! 

WAYNE    SCHOOL  Catalog  HH-3S 
2527  Sheffield  Ave.,  Chicago  14,  Illinois; 


ANY  PHOTO  ENLARGED 


67 


Size  B  x  lO  Inches 

on  DOUBLE-WEIGHT  Paper 

Same  price  for  full  length  or  bast 
form,  groups,  landscapes,  pet  ani- 
mals, etc..  or  enlargements  of  any 
part  of  a  group  picture.  Original  is 
returned  with  your  enlargement. 

SendNoMoney  3 for $1  so 

Just  mail  photo,  negative  or  snap- 
shot (any  size)  and  receive  your  enlargement, 
guaranteed  fadeless. on  beautiful  double-weight    : ^ah^  £M&      & 
portrait  quality  paper.  Pay  postman  67c  plus    .X'  .'SW***. 
postage— or  send  69c  with  order  and  we  pay  post- 
age. Take  advantage  of  this  amazing  offer.  Send  your  photos  today. 

Professional  Art  Studios.  544  S.  Main,  Dept.  36-L,    Princeton,  Illinois 


[ 


FREDERICK'S  of  HOLLYWOOD  DePt.  9689 

1430  N.  Cahuengo  Blvd.,  Hollywood  28,  Calif. 


1 


91 


30  DAYS 
SUPPLY 

Safe  Kith  Potency  Nutritional  Formula 

VITAMINS 


MINERALS 


25  proven  ingredients ■ 
(including   blood-building   B-12   ai 
folic    acid),    11     minerals,    cholir 

inositol  and  methionine 
Yes,  we'll  send  you  this  $5.00  sup^ 
ply  free  to  prove  how  much  health- 
ier and  peppier  you  may  feel  after 
a  few  days'  trial!  We'll  also  send 
details  of  an  amazing  new  plan 
I  that  provides  a  full 
supply  of  vitamins 
i  every  month  for 
.just  $2.00!  You're 
not  obligated  to 
I  buy  from  us  now 
!  or  ever.  Mail  cou- 
HJg  pon  now! 


vitamin  0 

1.000  USf  Unlit 
Vitamin  C  75  mi 
Vitamin  B*l  5  ml. 
vitamin  B-2  2.5  mf . 
Vitamin  64  0.5  mg 
Vitamin  B-12  1  mcl. 
Niacin  Amid*  40  ml. 
Calcium  Pan* 

tothenatt  *4  ml. 
vitamin  E  2  Ml. 
Folic  Add      0.5  ml. 

Fltll  11  mineral*. 

choline.  Inositol 

and  methionine. 


VITASAFE  CORP..  Dept.  885 
43  W.  61st  St..  New  York  23.  N.  Y. 
Please  send  free  trial  vitamins  and  details." 
of  new  Plan  which  I  may  accept  or  reject.  I 
I  am  not  obligated  to  buy  anything. 
(I  enclose  251  for  packing  and  postage.) 

Name 


Address. 


City,  Zone.  State. 


Only  one  trial  supply  per  family.  J 


mA  n  o  v  can  be  yours  for  helP" 
U  II  C  J     ing  us  take  orders  for 

magazine  subscriptions. 

Write  for  FREE  information.  No  obligation. 

TV  Radio  Mirror.  205  East  42  St..  N.Y.  17.  NY. 


(BUrf&c 


LIPS  SORE? 


tm  For 

COLO 
.SORES 


POCKET  SIZE 

39c 


LEG   SUFFERERS 


FREE 

BOOKLET 


■n 

pw  .  /  ■      Why  continue  to  suffer  without  attempt- 
I     /  ■     Ing  to  do  something?  Write  today  for  New 
■  J    M     Booklet^'THELIEPE  METHODS  FOR 
HOME   USE."   It  tells   about  Varicose 
Ulcers  and  Open  Leg  Sores.  Liepe  Methods 
Hj.  ™tjj       used  while  you  walk.  More  than  60  years  of 
■■■HB      success.  Praised  and  en- 
dorsed by  multitudes. 

LIEPE  METHODS,  3250  N.  Green  Bay  Ave.. 
Dept.  24-J,    Milwaukee   12,   Wisconsin! 


FALSE  TEETH 

KLUTCH  holds  them  tighter 

KLUTCH  forms  a  comfort  cushion;  holds  dental  plates 
so  much  firmer  and  snugger  that  one  can  eat  and  talk 
with  greater  comfort  and  security;  in  many  cases  al- 
most as  well  as  with  natural  teeth.  Klutch  lessens  the 
constant  fear  of  a  dropping,  rocking,  chafing  plate.  35c 
and  60c  at  druggists.  If  your  druggist  hasn't  it, 
don't  waste  money  on  substitutes,  but  send  us  10c 
and  we  will  mail  you  a  generous  trial  box. 

KLUTCH  CO..  Dept.  686-1,  ELMIRA,  N.  Y. 
IT'S  GREAT  TO  CLEAR  YOUR  SKIN 

PSORIASIS 

-the  ugly  scaly  skin  trouble 


MAKE  THE  ONE 

SPOT 

TEST 


92 


rjWDERMOIL 


Enjoy  the  thrill  of  a  smooth 
clear  skin!  DERMOIL 
formula  used  by  many  doctors.   Amazing 
results  reported  for  over  22  years!  No 
matter  how  long  you  have  suffered,  write 
for  Free  Book  on  Psoriasis  with  "Before 
and    After"    photos   of   results,   and 
SEND  10c  for  generous  trial  bottle. 
Satisfaction  in  2  weeks  or  money 
back.  Sold  by  all  Druggists. 

LAKE    LABORATORIES,    Dept.  2304 

Box    3925  Strathmoor  Station,  Detroit  27.  Mich. 


Setu/IOPfar 
TRIAL 
SIZE 


"barnstormed,"  learning  in  little  shows 
how  to  charge  a  crowd  with  a  different 
sort  of  non-wired  current.  Sun,  a  small 
company,  sent  records  to  other  Southern 
stations  and,  everywhere  the  song  was 
heard,   kids  started   digging   it. 

One  person  who  heard  it  with  special 
interest  was  Steve  Sholes,  RCA  Victor's 
country  -  and  -  Western  specialist.  (See 
"Rock  'n'  Roll,"  in  this  same  issue.)  An- 
other was  Col.  Tom  Parker,  booker  of 
country-and-Western  shows.  Tom  Diskin, 
Parker's  associate,  tells  their  reaction: 
"In  Texas,  touring  with  a  show,  we  began 
hearing  about  this  new  singing  sensation, 
Elvis  Presley.  We  thought  it  was  one  of 
those  local-boy-makes-good  things — but 
every  disc  jockey  we  spoke  to  complained 
he  had  requests  for  only  four  records, 
all  of  them  by  Presley." 

They  also  discovered  Elvis  drew  crowds. 
"Fans  can  make  requests,"  says  Diskin, 
"but  not  until  they  buy  records,  and  turn 
out  for  personal  appearances,  is  a  star 
hot  property." 

They  first  booked  Elvis  into  other  stars' 
tours  as  a  supporting  act.  After  five  per- 
formances, they  put  him  on  a  tour  of  his 
own  and  discovered  they  now  needed  to 
take  precautions  for  his  personal  safety: 
"The  kids  moved  in  on  him.  They  didn't 
mean  anything  malicious,  but  they  hit 
him  like  a  wave,  grabbing  and  screaming. 
We  had  to  put  ropes  around  Elvis,"  says 
Diskin. 

Steve  Sholes'  and  Presley's  paths  finally 
crossed  in  Nashville,  where  Steve  was  re- 
cording a  number  of  country-and-Western 
performers.  Presley,  who  by  then  had 
made  Col.  Parker  his  manager,  was  on 
Grand  Ole  Opry.  When,  again,  the  kids 
went  wild,  RCA  Victor  entered  negotia- 
tions. As  the  deal  was  signed,  Elvis  was 
given  a  royalty  of  four  and  one  half 
cents  on  each  89-cent  record.  He  also 
received  $5,000  "spending  money" — which 
he  promptly  plunked  down  for  the  first 
of  his  four  Cadillacs. 

Victor  paid  Sam  Phillips  $35,000  for 
Presley's  recording  contract,  together  with 
the  "masters"  he  had  made  for  Sun — a 
most  unusual  arrangement  for  Victor. 
They  broke  precedent  again  by  reissuing 
the  entire  group  for  national  distribution. 

1  he  timing  was  perfect.  Man,  mood  and 
mass  fused  into  an  explosion.  Teenagers, 
with  rock  'n'  roll's  tom-tom  beat  in 
their  blood,  had  lost  one  hero  when 
Marlon  Brando  "graduated"  into  be- 
coming a  distinguished,  well-behaved 
actor.  They  lost  another  when  Jimmy 
Dean  died  so  tragically.  Now  here  was 
Elvis,  looking  like  them  both  and  throw- 
ing himself  around  a  tune  in  a  way  not 
previously  seen  on  stage.  The  new  star 
was  on  his  way. 

As  it  chanced,  RCA  Victor's  "perfect 
lady"  press  agent,  delicate  Anne  Fulchino, 
drew  the  assignment  to  cover  Presley's 
ensuing  tour.  She  ticks  off  milestones  of 
mounting  hysteria:  "In  Jacksonville,  they 
tore  off  his  coat  and  belt.  In  Charlotte, 
about.  300  broke  through  the  police  line 
and  surged  on  stage.  In  the  wings,  we 
all  screamed  at  Elvis,  'Get  off  there!'  He 
ran,  but  they  ripped  his  clothes.  I  re- 
member the  way  he  said,  'They  even  took 
the  tassels  Off  my  shoes.'  He  was  like  a 
child  who  had  lost  a  toy." 

By  the  time  he  reached  New  York,  the 
surge  even  struck  RCA  Victor  stenog- 
raphers, who  normally  are  immune, 
thanks  to  constant  sight  of  top  talent.  To 
the  astonishment  of  their  bosses,  about 
twenty   crashed  his   recording  session. 

New  York,  however,  held  more  than 
clamoring  fans  for  Elvis.  It  was  his  first 
trip,  a  time  when  he  discovered  that  show 
business  in  the  big  town  differs  some- 
what from  the  southern  circuit.  Although 


able  to  cope  with  autograph  hunters,  the 
crowds  in  good  restaurants  appalled  him. 
Rather  than  wait  for  a  table,  he  would 
bolt  to  a  side-street  lunch  counter  for  his 
favorite  pork  chops,  potatoes  and  gravy. 
People  staring  at  his  ear-muff-sized-side- 
burns  posed  a  problem.  "You're  a  square 
if  you  don't  wear  them  in  the  South,"  he 
explained  to  Anne.  (To  compromise,  he 
shaved  them  a  quarter  of  an  inch.) 

"Timing"  brought  a  challenge  on  the 
Stage  Show  section  of  Jackie  Gleason's 
big  Saturday-night  hour.  "Because  Elvis 
sings  the  way  he  feels,"  says  Anne,  "it 
used  to  take  him  several  numbers  to  warm 
up — and  just  as  long  to  calm  down.  I've 
seen  him  call  the  trio  around  him  and 
sing  in  the  wings  until  his  tension  eased 
off.  He  knew  he  would  have  no  such 
leeway  on  television  and  he  was  scared. 
We  saw  him  sort  of  square  off  and  hit  it 
on  the  first  note.  It  was  the  first  time  he 
was  able  to  turn  on  the  fervor  just 
when  he  needed  it." 

Because  he  was  exhausted  by  the  six 
Stage  Show  appearances  with  the  Dorseys 
interspersed  with  trips  south  for  personal 
appearances,  everyone  worried  when  he 
boarded  the  plane  for  Hollywood  to  take 
his  screen  test.  Anne  fussed:  "Oh,  Elvis, 
you'll  never  be  able  to  learn  your  script 
by  tomorrow  morning."  When  they  saw 
the  film  they  were  amazed.  They  couldn't 
believe  the  vital  person  on  screen  was 
that  same  weary  guy. 

Charlotte  Clary,  who  directed  the  screen 
test  for  Paramount,  supplies  a  close-up 
of  what  happened:  "Seeing  him  do  his 
rock  'n'  roll  bit,  we  all  fell  on  our  faces. 
But  we  really  flipped  when  he  did  his 
two  heavy  dramatic  scenes  from  'The 
Rainmaker.' " 

She  especially  praised  his  self -disci- 
pline: "He  had  to  smoke  a  black  cigar. 
Since  Elvis  never  touched  tobacco,  he 
got  greener  and  greener.  Yet  he  never 
broke,  never  missed  a  line,  did  not  ruin 
the  take." 

They  saw  his  will  power  again  in  his 
musical  number:  "He  didn't  have  his  own 
guitar.  The  one  our  music  department 
supplied  had  a  broken  string.  He  tuned 
it  down  and  used  it  like  a  drum.  Then 
the  pick  flew  out  of  his  fingers.  He 
went  right  on.  The  strings  cut  deep,  and 
blood  dripped,  but  he  never  stopped." 

The  test  was  so  remarkable  that  pro- 
ducer Hal  Wallis  flew  in  from  Las  Vegas 
to  meet  him.  The  plan  to  cast  him  in  a 
supporting  role  in  "The  Rainmaker"  has 
been  dropped.  He  will  have  a  picture  of 
his  own,  instead.  In  Hollywood,  as  well  as 
in  New  York,  the  critical  professionals 
are  saying,  "He's  a  natural." 

Elvis's  only  comment  on  the  test  was: 
"I  guess  it  was  all  right."  He  holds  to 
his  caution  in  revealing  his  deepest 
dreams,  but  his  intimates  know  he  would 
rather  be  an  actor — a  good  actor — than 
anything  else  in  the  world.  "It's  an  ob- 
session with  him,"  says  Tom  Diskin. 

His  ability  to  grow  and  develop  is 
his  best  asset.  If,  as  record  sales  now  in- 
dicate, the  rock  'n'  roll  cacophony  is 
moving  into  a  slower,  more  melodious 
form,  Elvis  Presley  is  not  likely  to  fall 
with  the  fad.  His  last  session  at  RCA 
Victor  was  a  rugged  four  and  a  half 
hours^twenty-four  takes.  To  make  the 
finished  platter,  they  spliced  numbers  17 
and  24.  The  trouble  was,  Presley  didn't 
sound  like  Presley.  His  low  notes  were 
full  and  round.  Said  the  Victor  people, 
"The  guy  is  really  learning  to  sing.  He'll 
move  on  into  the  popular  music  field. 
This  fellow's  got  a  big  future." 

The  teenagers  want  Elvis  Presley  to- 
day. Experienced  prophets  in  the  field 
are  predicting  that  everyone  will  want 
him  tomorrow! 


(Continued  from  page  56) 
a  bolt  of  thunder,  the  roll  of  drums— or, 
at  the  least,  a  moment  of  premonition  on 
the  part  of  the  man  himself.  Something 
dramatic,  anyway,  something  extraordi- 
nary. .  .  .  However,  there  were  no  stage 
effects  to  signal  the  moment  in  time  at 
which  the  pattern  of  Mike's  life  changed. 
Simply  and  routinely,  the  phone  rang. 
The  Polio  Foundation's  Ed  Franck  was 
calling — as  he  often  did — about  the  CBS 
Radio  show,  On  A  Sunday  Afternoon, 
which  Mike  was  doing  at  the  time. 

But  Franck's  call  this  Monday  morning, 
February  20,  1955,  was  not  in  relation  to 
the  show.  "Mike,"  he  said,  "Bob  Young 
is  here  in  town,  has  a  virus,  can't  go  to 
Puerto  Rico  to  emcee  the  March  of  Dimes 
dinner  dance  at  the  Caribe-Hilton— will 
you  fly  down  and  take  over?" 

Mike  said,  "Sure." 

Mike  has  been  active  in  radio  and  tele- 
vision— as  an  announcer,  actor,  newscaster, 
sportscaster,  interviewer,  reviewer,  mod- 
erator, narrator,  emcee,  host,  and  even,  in 
his  salad  days,  as  a  continuity  writer  and 
salesman — for  twenty  years.  It  follows 
that,  to  virtuoso  Wallace,  emceeing  the 
March  of  Dimes  dinner  dance  was  merely 
another  assignment,  which  he  might  well 
have  turned  down  with  the  legitimate 
excuse,  "Sorry,  too  busy."  But  the  as- 
signment involved  a  trip  to  the  Caribbean. 
And   Mike   likes   the   Caribbean.   He    also 

I  likes  and  admires  TV  and  movie  actor 
Robert  Young.  Nor  would  he  willingly 
miss  an  opportunity  to  help  the  vital 
cause  which  is  served  by  the  March  of 
Dimes. 
So  Mike  flew  to  Puerto  Rico,  emceed 
the  show,  then  decided  he'd  stay  on  a 
few  days,  play  a  little  tennis,  soak  up  a 
little  sun.  Two  days  later,  he  was  sitting 
by  the  tennis  court,  resting  after  three 
fast  sets,  when  a  uniquely  attractive  girl 
entered  his  line  of  vision. 

She  looks  Spanish,  Mike  thought.  He 
still  thinks  so.  "Light  Spanish,"  he  says. 
"Light  brown  eyes — I  guess  you'd  call 
them  amber — hair  more  light  than  dark. 
Hair  that  comes  to  here,"  Mike  indicated 
his  hipline.  "She  was  wearing  it  in  two 
long  braids  that  day.  And  her  dress  was 
different  from  any  dress  I'd  ever  seen  a 
woman  wear,  a  sort  of  one-piece — madras, 
I  believe  it  was — in  shades  of  brown  and 
white. 

"She  has  the  look  of  a  fairly  serene 
woman,  I  thought.  I  thought,  She  has  a 
look  .  .  ."  whereupon  Mike — as  of  that 
Wednesday,  February  22 — rested  no  more. 
In  less  time  than  it  takes  to  write  the 
words,  he  was  on  his  feet  and  on  his 
way  around  the  courts  to  where  the  "pro" 
was  engaged  in  restringing  a  racquet. 
Finger  pointing,  Mike  inquired  of  the  pro, 
an  old  acquaintance,  "Who?" 

"Lorraine  Dora,"  said  the  pro.  "She 
runs  the  art  gallery  at  the  hotel  here. 
Don't  bother  with  her.  She  doesn't  go 
out.  She  works  every  night,  and — well, 
forget  it!" 

The  pro's  advice  was,  of  course,  the 
equivalent  of  so  much  water  running  off 
a  duck's  back.  But  Mike  told  him  "Okay," 
and  "Thanks."  And  then,  improvising,  he 
said  casually,  "However,  I'm  interested  in 
buying  some  Caribbean  primitives  for  my 
new  apartment,  so  I'll  just  wander  over 
to  the  gallery."  "I  wandered  over,"  Mike 
laughs,   "and  it  was  closed." 

The  next  morning,  as  the  doors  of  the 
gallery  opened,  Mike  went  through  them. 
He  played  the  role  of  a  collector  of 
Caribbean  primitives  with  his  usual  finesse. 
Then,  remarking  that  he  would  like  to 
discuss  his  purchases  further  with  her, 
he    asked,    "How    about   dinner    tonight?" 


Year  of  Dreams 


"The  answer,"  Mike  recalls,  "was  some- 
thing to  do  with  working  on  the  books, 
accounting,    auditing — in    short,    'No.'" 

"Don't  bother  with  her,"  the  pro  had 
said.  "She  doesn't  go  out."  Looks  like 
the  boy  knows  whereof  he  speaks,  Mike 
agreed  ruefully.  However  one  of  Mike's 
many  assets  is  that  he  has  a  friend  in 
every  port.  Born  Myron  Wallace,  the 
youngest  of  four  children,  in  Brookline, 
Massachusetts— May  9,  1918— he  has,  in 
the  thirty-eight  years  since,  lived  and 
worked  in  many  towns  and  cities  through- 
out the  United  States  . . .  and,  during  World 
War  II,  abroad.  After  narrating  the  dra- 
matic series,  First  Line — which  was  part 
of  a  recruiting  program  for  the  Navy — 
Mike  himself  joined  the  boys  in  blue,  was 
assigned  to  the  submarine  division  and 
served  in  Pearl  Harbor,  Australia  and  the 
Southwest  Pacific,  as  a  submarine  com- 
munications officer. 

Thanks  to  the  territory  he  has  covered 
— and  to  his  own  gift  for  friendship — 
there's  always  someone  he  knows,  any- 
where he  may  be.  Puerto  Rico  was  no 
exception.  There,  opportunely,  he  ran 
into  a  girl  he  used  to  date  in  Boston,  who 
was — also  opportunely — a  friend  of  Lor- 
raine's. By  the  end  of  the  week,  dinner 
with  Lorraine  was  "mission  accomplished," 
thanks  to  the  good  offices  of  the  mutual 
friend. 

Across  a  candlelit  table,  Mike  learned 
that  Lorraine  is  not  Spanish,  as  he  had 
thought,  but  of  French  parentage  (her 
maiden  name  was  Perigord)  .  .  .  that 
she  was  born  in  Pasadena,  California  .  .  . 
that  her  father,  a  retired  college  profes- 
sor, lives  in  Haiti — where  she  had  orig- 
inally opened  an  art  gallery,  then  ex- 
panded with  another  in  Puerto  Rico. 

"The  talk  that  night,"  says  Mike,  "was 
mostly  of  our  activities.  The  ceramics 
industry  Lorraine  started  in  the  Carib- 
bean. Her  painting;  she  works  in  oils  and, 
since  she  is  studying,  does  a  little  of 
everything — portraits,  still -lifes  and  so 
on.  My  work  in  radio  and  on  TV.  The 
books  we  like  and  the  sports  we  play.  Im- 
personal talk,  an  eavesdropper  would 
have  thought.  As,  in  fact,  it  was.  The 
preliminaries,"  Mike  laughs,  "the  over- 
ture .  .  . 

"And  then,  with  my  first  impression  of 
her  unique  attractiveness  confirmed,  I 
was  obliged  to  go  back  to  New  York.  But 
I  wrote.  And  Lorraine,  having  relaxed  a 
little  bit,  wrote  me.  And  when,  presently, 
I  was  due  for  a  legitimate  vacation,  I  flew 
back  to  the  Caribbean!" 

And  there,  by  and  on  the  blue  Carib- 
bean, the  getting-to-know-you  really  be- 
gan— with  nothing  remotely  impersonal 
about  it.  They  discovered  that  they 
shared  many  of  the  more  vital  experi- 
ences. Like  Mike,  Lorraine  had  been — 
but  no  longer  was — married.  Each  has 
two  children:  Lorraine,  a  son  and  daugh- 
ter, Anthony,  sixteen,  and  Pauline,  who 
is  nine  .  .  .  Mike,  two  sons,  Peter  and 
Christopher,  aged  thirteen  and  eight,  re- 
spectively. Their  values,  they  found,  are 
the  same:  The  value  and  importance  of 
work,  the  work  you  want  to  do  .  .  .  the 
deeper  value  and  importance  of  the  life 
you  live  in  your  private  world. 

"Before  I  left  Puerto  Rico  this  time," 
Mike  continues,  "I  persuaded  Lorraine  to 
come  to  New  York  in  May.  She  came  up, 
spent  three  weeks,  and  we  did  all  the 
things  you  might  expect  .  .  .  theaters, 
restaurants — and  New  York  in  the  spring! 
Then  we  decided,"  Mike  laughs,  "that  we 
were  probably  devoted  to  each  other, 
whereupon  I  flew  to  Haiti  to  ask  Lor- 
raine's father  for  her  hand  in  marriage. 
A  quaint  custom  required   of  me,"   Mike 


How  I  Learned 

SHORTHAND 

in   O  Weeks 


SHORTHAND 

No  Symbols — No  Machines, 
USES  ABC's 

by  Marguerite  Dearness 
Holyoke,  Mass. 
"With  SPEEDWRITING  short- 
hand, it  took  only  six  weeks 
of  study  and  I  was  talcing  dic- 
tation as  fast  as  some  of  my 
friends  who  have  been  strug- 
gling for  many  months  with 
other  types  of  shorthand.  One 
week  after  finishing  the  course, 
I  received  a  raise  in  salary  with 
the  promise  of  another  in  the 
near  future." 

No  "Foreign  Language"  of  Symbols— with 


Over  350,000  men  and  women  have  learned  shorthand 
the  SPEEDWRITING  way  at  home  or  through  class- 
room instruction  in  schools  in  over  400  cities  in  U.S., 
Canada,  Cuba  and  Hawaii.  Today  they  are  winning 
success  everywhere — in  business,  industry  and  Civil 
Service.  SPEEDWRITING  shorthand  is  easy  to  master 
— yet  it  is  accurate  and  speedy.  120  words  per  minute. 
Age  is  no  obstacle.  Typing  also  available. 

Write  TODAY  for  FREE  book  which  gives 
full  details— and  FREE  sample  lesson  that 
will  show  you  how  easily  and  quickly  YOU 
can  learn  SPEEDWRITING  shorthand. 
Mail   the  coupon  NOW. 


FREE 


DID  YOU 
SEE 


ARTICLE  ON 


READERS  DIGEST  speedwriting? 


School  of  SPEEDWRITING 

Dept.    309-6,    55   W.    42    St. 
New  York  36.   N.   Y. 


1 33rd  Yearl 


Please  send  me  details  and  FREE  sample   lesson. 

D  Home   Study  □    Classroom    Instruction 

D   If  under   17,   check  here  for  Special  Booklet  A 


Address,, 
City 


For  Quick  Relief 
Ask  your  Druggist  for 


DENT'S 


POULTICE 


^ENLARGEMENT 

■  o/youf  T-ai/orrte  Photo 


FROM  FAMOUS  HOLLYWOOD  FILMSTUDIOS 

Just  to  get  acquainted,  we  will 
make  you  a  beautiful  5x7  black 
and  white  enlargement  of  any 
snapshot,  photo  or  negative.  Also 
be  sure  to  include  co.or  of  hair, 
eyes  and  clothing,  and  get  our 
Air  Mail  Bargain  Offer  for  hav- 
ing your  enlargement  beautifully 
hand-colored  in  oil  and  mounted 
in  a  handsome  frame.  Limit  2  to  a  customer. 
Please  enclose  10c  to  cover  cost  of  handling  and 
mailing  each  enlargement.  Original  returned.  We 
will  pay  $100.00  for  children's  or  adults  pictures 
used  in  our  advertising.  Act  NOW! 

Offer  limited  to  U.S.A.  only 

HOLLYWOOD  FILM  STUDIOS.  Dept.  F-262 
7021    Santa   Monica   Blvd..    Hollywood   38,    Calif. 


5*/' 


Tui 


102 


1f\*\      In  My     i 

Made      lUZ    ;T-pare 
■  ^^  -^"    Time 

With  SOUTHERN  Christmas  Cards    ] 


YOU  CAN  DO  IT,  TOO! 

It's  so  easy!  Magnificent  MAGIC- 
LUSTRE  Name- In -Silver  TALL 
Cards  sell  like  magic.  You  make  $1.00 
on  every  box;  $65  on  just  65  boxes!  Huge 
selection  of  fast-selling  $1  Assortments. 
21-Card  SOUTHERN  BEAUTY.  Photo- 
Personals,  3-IN-l  Ensembles.  Name- 
Imprinted  Christmas  Cards  25  for 
$1.  Over  50  popular  gift  items. 

BIG  PROFITS  PLUS  BONUS! 

You  make  up  to  150%  cash  profit;  in 
addition  you  get  up  to  6%  extra  as  a  cash 
bonus.  Fast  24-hour  service.  No  experi- 
ence needed.  Send  your  name  and  ad- 
dress for  EXCLUSIVE  Sample  Pre- 
sentation Book  FREE,  plus  assort- 
ments on  approval.  Write  NOW ! 

SOUTHERN  GREETINGS,  Dept.'M-31 

478  North  Hollywood  St.,  Memphis  12,  Tennessee 


93 


ENJOY  A   PERMANENT, 
KB(G  PAY  CAREER  as  a 

^PRACTICAL 
NURSE 


EARN  AT  HOME  WHILE  LEARNING 

FREE  SAMPLE  LESSON  shows  how  easily  you  can 
become  a  professionally  trained  practical  nurse 
by  home  study  in  a  short  time.  NO  HIGH 
SCHOOL  NEEDED.  No  age  limit. 

FOR  FREE  LESSON  and 
FULL  INFORMATION 


j  Post  Graduate  Hospital  ~^^^"™~ 

j  School  of  Nursing 

I  9D96  Auditorium  Bldg. 

|  Chicago  5,  Illinois 

J  Name I 

I  | 

|  Address j 

J  City State j 

I I 


OLD  LEG  TROUBLE 


i 


Easy  to  use  Viscose  Applications  may 
heal  many  old  leg  sores  due  to  venous 
congestion  of  varicose  veins,  leg  swell- 
ing or  injuries.  Send  today  for  a  FREE 
BOOK  and  No-Cost-For-Trial-plan. 

R.G.  VISCOSE  COMPANY 
140  N.  Dearborn  Street,  Chicago  2,  Illinois 


NOW!  Save  Up  to  50% 
on  Nationally  Advertised  Gifts 

Use  this  big.  ne*  FREE  CATA- 
LOG  to  buy  all  kinds  *>f  gifts 
and  merchandise  for  yourself, 
family,  friends,  neighbors.  Ter- 
rific saving  on  big-name  items. 
Also,  make  money  spare  time 
taking  orders  from  others! 

EVERGREEN  STUDIOS 

Box   846  CHICAGO   42,    111. 


Enjoy  glamorous  high-pay  career  or  profit- 
able hobby.  Learn  Illustrating,  Cartooning,  Fashion  Art, 
Lettering,  etc.  We  train  you  at  home,  In  spare  time.  Low 
cost.  22-pc.  art  outfit  free  of  extra  cost.  Write  for  FREE 
Book  describing  easy  method.  No  obligation.  No  salesman 
will  call  on  you.  Washington  School  of  Art,  Studio  599, 
Port    Washington,     N.'Y.    (Estab.     1914)    Free    talent    test. 

BE  A  BEAUTY  ADVISOR 

f  Show  You  How 

Previous  experience  unnecessary.  Make 
as  much  as  $5.00  in  one  hour  just  advis- 
ing friends  and  neighbors  on  proper  use  of 
famousStudioGirlHollywood  Cosmetics. 
Become  an  expert  with  only  a  few  hours  study. 
All  information  free.  If  you  send  name  today 
I  will  also  send  free  samples— no  charge  now 
or  at  any  other  time.  Send  your  name  to  me, 
Harry  Taylor,  President,  at  address  below. 
STUDIO  GIRL  HOLLYWOOD  COSMETICS 

DEPT.  3869,    GLENDALE  4,  CALIFORNIA 

FOR  EASIEST  EXTRA  MONEY 


Sell  NEW  EXCLUSIVE  25  for  s\»  ( 

TALL  CHRISTMAS  CARDS  ft 


94 


-  Quickest  Way  to  Make  *7&*  "".< 

EXCLUSIVE  "Gold Luxury"  Assortment  pays  i  , 

yon  big  76c  profit  on  every  $1.25  box—  $76. 00  on   /*    /j*':r 

100.  Make  more  with  other  Christmas  EXCLU-   |  «,y   \  t 

SIVES: — big  selection  Name-Imprinted  Cards; 

TALL  Card.  21  in  $1  box;  4-in-l     Simply  Colos-  , 

sal"  Box;  Gift  WRAPS  BY-THE-YARD.  66  I """USipiB 

ft.  roll;  sensational  new  Gift  Novelties;  over 

260  money-makers.  You  make  highest  profits 

plus  EXTRA  CASH  BONUS.   Money-back 

Guarantee  assures  you  ap  to  20c  more  profit  per  .£>&•*  Tr  **»V 
box.  EXTRA  SAMPLES  AT  10c.  other  Borprl.es.  /^Guaranteed  by^ 
Send  coupon  /or  Free  Trial  samples  NOW .  I  Good  Housekeeping 

S&2&L  ["CARDINAL  CRAnSMEN^aiSESS355, 

P*!""^  J||Hl4  ,400  S1"11  *■•■•  Owl.  ^29."    Cincinnati  14,  Ohio 

LBbJ  -^■■71  flaaV  PleaBe  send  money-making  kit  of  6  boxes  on 
Bl^fsBBaHwMM  approval,  FREE  Personalized  Samples  and 
■^^PnffiTjWf    FREE  offer.- 

ERIE  0FFER!\  Na 

POP-UP  TOASTER  I    AddrM - 

Silt  t  PapnerSit '  ««„.,. 

(W  prompt  action  [_£!?.£  fZ^—'Z :———. 


explains,  "because  Professor  Perigord — a 
very  dignified  Frenchman  turned  Amer- 
ican— is  still,  in  his  bones,  of  the  Old 
World.  This  is  a  man!"  Mike  says  of  his 
father-in-law. 

"And  so  Lorraine  and  I,  having  ob- 
tained parental  permission,  were  married, 
on  a  day  in  mid-July,  in  judge's  cham- 
bers down  on  Second  Avenue  at  Fourth 
Street.  Lorraine,  who  makes  all  her  own 
clothes,  wore  a  one-piece  dress  of  some 
loose-woven  material  that  looked,"  says 
Mike,  looking  helpless,  "like  gilt  burlap! 
And  her  hair  up,  high  up,  as  she  wears  it 
in  the  city — though,  in  the  country,  she 
still  wears  it  in  two  braids,  as  when  I 
first  saw  her.  Following  the  ceremony, 
at  which  only  members  of  the  family 
were  present,  we  had  a  reception  for 
about  two  hundred.  Dave  Garroway 
(soon  to  be  a  bridegroom  himself)  was 
there  .  .  .  Mary  Stuart,  Arlene  Francis's 
husband,  actor-producer  Martin  Gabel, 
and  others,  most  of  them  old  friends." 

And  then  the  just-marrieds  went  home, 
home  to  Solley  House,  the  storybook  house 
in  the  storybook  town  known  as  Snedens 
Landing. 

S  nedens  Landing,  which  covers  maybe 
1000  acres,  is  part  of  the  town  of  Pali- 
sades-on-the-Hudson,  New  York,"  Mike 
explains.  "And  why  Snedens  Landing? 
One  of  Lorraine's  very  good  friends  in 
Haiti  had  lived  there  and  told  Lorraine, 
'You'd  love  it.'  Houses  in  Snedens  Land- 
ing, however,  are  impossible  to  find.  But 
since  nothing  is  impossible,  seemingly,  in 
the  year  that  is  'The  Year,' "  Mike  laughs, 
"I  found  out  that  a  friend  of  mine  had  just 
bought  a  house  in  Snedens  Landing, 
wanted  a  tenant  .  .  .  and,  five  minutes 
after  Lorraine  and  I  crossed  the  lintel 
of  Solley  House,  he  had  one! 

"The  first,  or  early  part  of  Solley  House," 
says  Mike,  "is  175  years  old.  The  last 
part,  built  about  twenty-five  years  ago, 
is  a  greenhouse  which  Lorraine  uses  as 
her  studio.  There  are  tree  palms  in  the 
greenhouse,  orchids  and  tree  ferns  and 
staghorn  ferns   and  geraniums — and   ants! 

"All  of  the  houses  in  Snedens  Landing 
are  fabled:  Chateau  Hash,  so  called  be- 
cause of  its  conglomerate  architecture; 
Ding  Ding  House,  named  for  the  old  ship's 
bell  that  hangs  above  the  door  and  still 
(by  unseen  hands)  tolls  the  night  watches 
as  at  sea;  Captain  John's  House.  .  .  . 
The  whole  place  is  like  a  legend,  with  a 
quality  difficult  to  define,  a  dream  qual- 
ity, another-world  quality,  that  comes, 
in  part,  from  being  unmarred  by  New 
Yorkish  conformity  for  so  many  years. 
The  paint  on  the  houses  is  faded.  The 
manicured  look  of  Westchester  and  su- 
burban Connecticut  does  not  exist  here. 
An  old  Presbyterian  church  and  parson- 
age, at  the  end  of  a  road,  have  not  been 
touched  in  fifty  years.  Noel  Coward  once 
lived  in  Snedens  Landing.  Katharine 
Cornell  still  lives  there.  And  an  old  lady, 
a  lace-maker  by  trade,  who  must  be  100, 
still  lives  there,  too  .  .  .  and  has  for  sixty 
years  ...  as  we  hope  to  do.  And  so, 
against  the  day  when  our  lease  of  Solley 
House  expires,  we've  bought  a  house  right 
next  to  the  parsonage  which  we'll  use 
to  'trade  up'  until,  eventually,  we  get  the 
house  we  want. 

"Meantime,  we're  enjoying  Solley 
House,"  Mike  grins,  "all  six  of  us.  My 
boys  are  with  us  weekends.  We  all  swim 
together  in  the  community  pool,  with  its 
picturesque  pergola  which  looks  like  an 
old  Italian  villa.  We  picnic  together, 
browse  about.  All  four  kids  get  along 
famously,  by  the  way,  with  Lorraine's 
Anthony  leader  of  the  group. 

"And  so,  one  of  those  dreams  that 
never  come  to  pass,"  Mike  smiles,  "did 
come  to  pass  for  me,  in  terms  of  personal 
happiness.  .  .  .  And   that  took  the  begin- 


ning— or,  to  be  exact — the  first  six  months 
of  "The  Year.'  During  the  next  six 
months,  the  career  put  forth  new 
branches  .  .  .  the  kind  that  flower  and 
bear  fruit." 

Not  that  Mike  had  ever  put  in  much 
time,  if  any,  "resting  between  engage- 
ments." Or  that  the  engagements  had  not 
been  tops  of  their  kind.  Or  that  he  didn't 
know,  early  in  life,  what  he  wanted  to  do. 
Although  he  had  enrolled  at  the  Uni- 
versity of  Michigan  as  an  economics 
major,  he  soon  changed  to  speech  and 
dramatics  and  was  graduated,  in  1939, 
with  a  Bachelor  of  Arts  degree,.  That 
summer,  he  got  a  job  teaching  radio  tech- 
niques at  the  National  Music  Camp  in 
Interlochen,  Michigan.  Shortly  there- 
after, he  was  employed  by  Station  WOOD 
in  Grand  Rapids  as  an  announcer,  con- 
tinuity writer  and  salesman.  Within  a 
year,  he'd  made  his  network  debut  from 
Detroit,  as  narrator,  announcer  and  actor 
on  various  top-rated  series,  including 
The  Lone  Ranger  and  The  Green  Hornet. 

In  1941,  he  transferred  his  activities  to 
Chicago,  where  he  did  a  regular  newscast 
for  the  Chicago  Sun-Times  and  was  an- 
nouncer on  such  leading  serials  as  The 
Road  Of  Life,  Ma  Parkins,  and  The  Guid- 
ing Light.  Returning  to  Chicago  after 
the  war,  he  conducted  a  late-night  in- 
terview from  the  Balinese  Room  of  the 
Blackstone  Hotel  and,  during  the  day,  was 
announcer  on  so  many  network  radio 
programs — Curtain  Time,  for  one,  Fact  Or 
Fiction,  Sky  King — that  he  was  given  the 
unofficial  title  of  "Mr.  Radio."  He  was 
also  a  barker  on  a  TV  circus  series,  mod- 
erator of  a  quiz  program  on  TV,  and  the 
emcee  of  a  beauty  contest. 

When  did  he  sleep?  Mostly,  he  didn't. 
He  was,  all  unaware,  in  training  for  "The 
Year"  during  which  the  dream  that  per- 
mits no  dreaming — abed,  that  is — came 
to  pass. 

In  June  of  1951,  Mike  came  to  New 
York.  Since  then,  he  has  conducted 
more  than  2,000  interviews  on  local  and 
network  radio  and  TV,  hosted  any  num- 
ber of  radio  and  TV  shows  (notably,  All 
Around  The  Town),  and  was  part-time 
emcee  on  There's  One  In  Every  Family 
and  moderator  on  I'll  Buy  That.  In  1952, 
he  covered  the  political  conventions,  the 
election-night  returns,  the  inauguration 
of  President  Eisenhower,  and — all  in  one 
year's  time — the  Easter  Parade  in  New 
York.  During  the  1954-55  season,  he 
came  out  of  the  "ether"  to  make  his 
Broadway  debut  in  the  leading  male  role 
of  the  comedy,  "Reclining  Figure." 

A  deal  of  work,  these  years  of  work 
Mike  put  in  on  the  mike  .  .  .  work  well 
done,  yet  lacking  the  prestige,  the  recog- 
nition as  a  "personality"  which  is  now  his. 

It  was  October  of  '55  that  Ted  Cott, 
vice-president  of  Du  Mont  Broadcasting 
Corporation,  was  persuaded  (by  Mike)  to 
give  him  the  news  spots  telecast  at  7 
P.  M.,  and  again  at  11  P.  M.— Monday 
through  Friday  over  New  York's  Station 
WABD — and  Mike  began  to  come  fully 
into  his  own. 

"For  several  years,  before  and  after  the 
war,"  says  Mike,  "I'd  been  doing  the  news 
for  NBC  in  Chicago.  But,  when  I  came  to 
New  York  with  CBS,  they  had  more  than 
enough  newscasters,  and  I  went  into  the 
program  department — interviews  and  so 
on.  However,  I'd  been  babying  the  idea 
of  a  TV  newscast,  for  some  time.  Of  the 
various  activities  on  the  air,  newscasting 
is,  to  me,  the  most  rewarding.  For  three 
reasons,  all  good:  For  one  thing,  the 
fight  on  TV  is  for  material.  As  a  news- 
caster, here  is  your  material,  readymade 
— and  what  material!  A  world,  literally 
the  world,  of  it!  For  another,  my  turn 
of  mind  is  such  that  I  am  more  stimulated 
by  national  and  international  affairs  than 


I  am  by  theatrical  affairs,  in  themselves. 
Third,  take  a  look  at  newscasters — John 
Cameron  Swayze,  for  instance,  Doug  Ed- 
wards, John  Daly — they're  not  fellows 
who  are  flashes  in  the  pan.  Newscasting, 
although  poorly  paid  by  comparison,  is  a 
self-renewing  process.  The  longer  you 
stay,  the  more  your  public  likes  you — I 
hope. 

"Since  the  old  saw,  'It  never  rains  but 
it  pours,' "  Mike  adds,  "can  be  as  true 
when  it's  your  year  of  good  fortune  as 
when  it's  not  ...  at  about  the  same  time 
as  I  started  newscasting  over  WABD, 
NBC  came  to  me  and  said:  'How  would 
you  like  to  work,  as  co-host  with 
Margaret  Truman,  on  our  new  daytime 
radio  program,  Weekday"!' 

"I  would.  And  we  did.  We  cut  an 
audition  record,  then  Margaret  went  to 
Europe  .  .  .  and  that,  I  thought,  is  that. 
Then  Margaret  came  back  from  Europe, 
and  the  word  went  out:   Start  November  7. 

"We  started  November  7.  Margaret 
was  only  on  the  show  four  months,  but 
during  that  time  we  had  a  lot  of  fun. 
She's  a  fun  girl  as  well  as  a  serious  hard- 
worker.  Being  together  all  day  long,  five 
days  a  week — as  we  were — we  used  to  get 
into  quite  pal-sy  conversations.  I'd  tell 
her  she  should  get  married.  She'd  tell 
me,"  Mike  laughs,  "that  she  couldn't  agree 
more!  One  day,  I  said,  'Tell  you  what: 
Next  time  I'm  in  Haiti,  I'll  try  to  get  you 
a  Ouanga  doll,  have  the  witch  doctor  bless 
it,  then  all  you  have  to  do  is  chant  in- 
cantations over  it,  perform  rites  and,  be- 
fore you  know  it,  you'll  be  saying  'I  do.' 
When  Lorraine  and  I  flew  to  Haiti  a  few 
weeks  later,  I  managed  to  find  a  Ouanga 
doll  (they're  rare),  brought  it  back,  pre- 
sented it  to  Margaret — and,  sure  enough, 
three  weeks  later,  she  winds  up  a  bride- 
to-be!  On  February  27,  Virginia  Graham, 
another  great  girl,  real  great,  replaced 
our  altar-bound  Miss  Truman." 

JYlike  felt  that,  career- wise,  his  cup 
was  running  over,  when  he  and  Lorraine 
flew  to  Haiti,  in  late  February  of  '56,  for 
a  week  of  rest. 

"I  got  back,"  Mike  says,  "to  find  that 
executive  producer  Steve  Carlin  wanted 
to  know  whether  I  would  be  interested  in 
talking  to  him  about  emceeing  NBC-TV'S 


$1,000  REWARD 


...  is  offered  for  information  leading 
to  the  arrest  of  dangerous  "wanted" 
criminals.  Hear  details  about  the 
$1,000.00   reward   on   .   .   . 

TRUE  DETECTIVE 
MYSTERIES 

Every  Monday   Evening   on   MUTUAL 
Stations 

A  fantastic  story — he  killed  only  red- 
heads, three  of  them  in  all.  Don't  miss 
"The  Man  Who  Killed  Only  Redheads"  in 
September  TRUE  DETECTIVE  magazine, 
now  at  all  newsstands. 


The  Big  Surprise.  We  talked.  Two  weeks 
later,  in  March,  I  started.  And  The  Big 
Surprise  can  be  no  bigger  to  a  viewer 
watching  it,  or  to  a  contestant  who  hits 
the  jackpot,  than  it  is  to  me,"  Mike 
laughs,  "to  find  myself  on  it! 

"It's  the  contestant  who  makes  the 
show,"  the  show's  emcee  adds  modestly, 
"not  the  emcee.  For  the  most  part,  con- 
testants on  The  Big  Surprise  are  chosen 
from  among  the  people  who  write  in  stat- 
ing their  qualifications,  not  only  as  au- 
thorities in  the  categories  they  choose, 
but  also  as  citizens  in  good  standing  in 
their  respective  communities.  The  first 
week  I  was  on,  we  had  a  $100,000  ques- 
tion going,  with  Admiral  Redfield,  whose 
category  was  Greek  mythology.  I  knew 
the  Admiral  had  a  cerebral-palsied  child 
...  he  could  use  the  dough.  He  won 
.  .  .  but  if  he  hadn't — !  You  become  in- 
volved with  the  contestants,  you  really 
do.  You  get  into  the  $100,000  bracket. 
You  ask  the  question.  You  see  the  beads 
of  perspiration  on  the  brow,  the  quiver- 
ing of  the  chin.  And  your  brow  is  beaded, 
believe  me  .  .  .  your  chin  wobbles!" 

Mike  can  relax  a  bit  during  the  summer, 
with  both  Weekday  and  The  Big  Surprise 
on  vacation — though  he  has  added  a 
Thursday  night  show  on  NBC  Radio, 
called  Stars  In  Action,  to  his  schedule. 

Asked  how  he  accounts  for  the  fact 
that  the  rewards — the  richest  of  them — 
came  so  all-in-a-bunch,  all  in  one  year, 
he  says,  "I  believe  this:  You  fill  your  own 
personal  vessel  for  a  good  many  years 
without  realizing  you  are  doing  so;  with- 
out knowing  why  you  are  doing  the  jobs 
you  do.  You  sell  time  on  a  small  station 
in  the  Midwest.  You  write  eight  five- 
minute  newscasts  a  day  for  fifty-five 
dollars  a  week.  You  emcee  a  beauty  con- 
test, play  bit  parts,  announce  here,  emcee 
there — on  and  on — seeming  to  mark  time 
that  stands  still  .  .  .  until,  suddenly,  the 
bits  and  pieces  fall  together,  the  pattern 
begins  to  emerge  .  .  .  and  the  pattern  is 
that   of   a   competent,    capable   performer. 

"Selling  time  taught  you,  then  and 
there,  to  understand  the  problems  of  the 
advertising  agency  and  the  client,  gave 
you  the  double-barrelled  advantage  of 
being  at  home  on  the  business  (as  well 
as  the  talent)  side  of  the  fence  ....  Be- 
cause of  the  things  you  do  on  stage,  how- 
ever small — or  in  college  dramatics — you 
loosen  up,  learn  to  use  your  body,  your 
emotions.  I  have  no  desire  to  be  an 
actor,  none  at  all,"  says  Mike.  "But,  on 
The  Big  Surprise,  it  comes  in  handy  to 
be  able  to  relax  a  bit,  express  myself,  as 
well  as  use  my  voice.  .  .  .  You  go  to  Aus- 
tralia in  the  Navy  and  don't  realize 
you  are  building  a  background  to  use,  ten 
years  later,  in  newscasting. 

"On  her  Home  program,  Arlene  Fran- 
cis says  she  finds  that  she  uses  every- 
thing she  ever  experienced  or  learned, 
from  childhood  on.  Dave  Garroway  says 
the  same  of  his  job  on  Today.  Godfrey 
makes  use  of  every  scrap  of  grist  that 
ever  came  to  his  mill. 

"So  many  young  people  on  TV  today 
are  too  intent  on  the  showcase  aspect  of 
show  biz,  instead  of  developing  and 
broadening  their  own  personalities  by 
living,  and  learning  .  .  .  .With  rare  excep- 
tions, the  top  personalities  in  show  busi- 
ness— any  medium — have  done  a  lot  of 
living  and  learning.  And  living  and  learn- 
ing takes  time.  .  .  . 

"As  for  why  it  all  came  true  this  year 
— who  knows?"  says  Mike  Wallace.  "Ex- 
cept that,  in  the  course  of  my  own  human 
events,  this  obviously  was  The  Year.  Lor- 
raine, the  kids,  Weekday,  The  Big  Sur- 
prise, the  WABD  newscasts  ...  all  this 
and  Snedens  Landing,  too!  Mine  not  to 
question  why,"  Mike  laughs,  "but  only 
to  say — a  statement  of  fact — that  I  have 
never  been  happier  in  my  life." 


FREE! 


Beautiful  White  &  Gold 
Ball  Point  Pen  covered 
with  Jewels-PERFUMED  INK 

—  and  a  chance  to  make 
EASY  SPARE-TIME  MONEY 

showing  EXCLUSIVE  Novelties, 
Stationery,  Greeting  Cards 

Just  your  name  and  address  on  coupon 
brings — absolutely  FREE — this  beauti- 
ful Jeweled  Pen— PLUS  our  "Wonder 
Box"  displaying  Stationery,  Novelties, 
Gift  Wraps  and  3  Boxes  of  Unusual 
Cards  on  approval.  We  also  include 
Special  Plan  that  shows  how  to  make 
good  money  in  spare  time.  Jeweled  Pen 
is  FREE,  whether  you  return  "Wonder 
Box"  or  not.  Send  for  it  now  while 
limited  supply  of  pens  lasts. 

GENERAL  CARD  CO.,  Dept.  75-K 

1300  W.  Jackson  Blvd.    •    Chicago  7,  III. 


NOVELTIES 


-/      i 


PERSONAL 
STATIONERY    GREETING 
CARDS 


GENERAL  CARD  COMPANY,  Depl.  75-K 
1300  West  Jackson  Blvd.,  Chicago  7,  Illinois 

Please  send  me  the  Jeweled  White  and  Gold  Ball-Point  Pen  with 
Perfumed  Ink  absolutely  FREE.  Also  send,  on  approval,  your 
"  Wonder  Box"  with  a  Display  of  Personal  Stationery,  Christmas 
Cards,  Gift  Wrappings,  exclusive  Novelties;  also,  a  new  table 
Novelty  and  3  Boxes  of  Unusual  Greeting  Cards.  Include  complete 
details  of  your  SPARE-TIME  MONEY  MAKING  PUN. 


YOUR  NAME_ 


ADDRESS. 
CITY 


_ZONE_ 


_STATE_ 


HELP 


us  take  orders  tor  magazine  sub- 
scriptions and  earn  lots  of  money  doing  it.  Write 
today  for  FREE  money-making  information:  TV  Radio 
Mirror  Subscription  Sales  Dept.,  205  East  42  Street, 
New  York  17,  N.  Y. 


X^Your 
Child's 
Photo 


HUNDREDS  OF  DOLLARS  PAID... 

__.h  month  by  advertisers  tor  boys  &  girls 
pictures  (6  mo.  to  18  yrs.l  for  TV.Calendar  & 
Magazine  ads.  Your  child  has  same  opportu- 
nity. Send  pNE  (1)  small  photo  for  approval. 
Print  childs  and  mothers  name  and  address 
on  back.  Returned  in  20  days  with  report. 
NO  OBLIGATION. 

HOLLYWOOD    SPOTLITE.    Dept.    Al  I 
1611    No.    La    Brea,    Hollywood,    Calif.  I 


KILL  THE  HAIR  ROOT 


Destroy  unwanted  hair  PERMANENTLY.  Use  con- 1 

veniently  at  home.  When  you  have  read  our  J 

■  *  instruction  book  carefully  and  learned  to  us*  f 

.■/the  new  Mahler  Epilotor  safely  and  efficiently,  J 

vy  then  you  can  remove  unwanted  hair  FOREVER. 

'  MONEY-BACK  GUARANTEE  {Our  76th  Year).  s*?^w 

BEAUTY  \ 
FOR  YOU"! 


Send  y  TODAY  for  booklet  0  . 


MAHLER'S.  INC.. 


PROVIDENCE  15.  R.  I. 


Nagging  Backache 
Sleepless  Nights 

Nagging  backache,  headache,  or  muscular  aches  and 
pains  may  come  on  with  over-exertion,  emotional  up- 
sets or  day  to  day  stress  and  strain.  And  folks  who 
eat  and  drink  unwisely  sometimes  suffer  mild  bladder 
irritation. .  .with  thatrestless,  uncomf  ortablef  eeling. 

If  you  are  miserable  and  worn  out  because  of 
these  discomforts,  Doan's  Pills  often  help  by  their 
pain  relieving  action,  by  their  soothing  effect  to  ease 
bladder  irritation,  and  by  their  mild  diuretic  action 
through  the  kidneys— tending  to  increase  the  output 
of  the  15  miles  of  kidney  tubes. 

So  if  nagging  backache  makes  you  feel  dragged-out, 
miserable,  with  restless,  sleepless  nights,  don't  wait, 
try  Doan's  Pills,  get  the  same  happy  relief  millions 
have  enjoyed  for  over  60  years.  Ask  for  new,  large, 
economy  size  and  save  money.  Get  Doan's  Pills  today  ! 


95 


In  Praise  of  Parents 


(Continued  from  page  59) 
tress — in  fact,  she  turned  professional  at 
the  ripe  age  of  twelve — her  adolescence 
was  anything  but  haphazard,  thanks  to 
two  unusually  understanding  non-profes- 
sional parents. 

"Honestly,"  Mary  Linn  glows,  "my 
mother  and  father  are  the  greatest.  I 
know  I'm  prejudiced,  but  they  really 
are.  They're  the  type  of  people  to  whom 
I  could  always  take  my  problems  and 
discuss  them  freely.  You  know,  none  of 
this  treading  lightly  until  I  saw  which 
way  the  wind  was  blowing  .  .  .  and  then 
retracting  until  a  better  day.  In  other 
words,  I  never  had  to  think  in  terms  of 
'campaigning.'  Whatever  my  problem, 
right  then  and  there  was  the  time  to  dis- 
cuss it  .  .  .  clarify  it. 

"I  may  be  wrong,  but  it  occurs  to  me 
that  this  is  the  very  reason  I  don't  make 
mountains  out  of  molehills.  Disappoint- 
ments, for  example,  don't  become  tragedies. 
I  was  raised  to  look  at  a  problem  squarely, 
face  and  accept  the  facts,  and  then  pro- 
ceed accordingly.  And — perhaps  of  equal 
importance — I  was  raised  not  to  create 
problems. 

"For  instance,"  she  explains,  "my  want- 
ing to  become  an  actress  must  have  pre- 
sented a  problem  of  sorts  to  Mother  and 
Dad.  Not  being  theatrical  people,  what 
they  knew  about  the  theater  was  only 
what  they  gleaned  from  newspaper  and 
magazine  stories.  In  a  word — 'instability.' 
Mother  and  Dad  could  have  made  a  ter- 
rible problem  out  of  this  lack  of  knowl- 
edge.   But  they  didn't. 

"Admittedly,  that  it  was  a  fact  which 
would  have  been  pretty  hard  to  ignore  .  .  . 
since,  at  the  age  of  six,  I  wrote,  produced 
and  starred  in  my  first  play.  I  can  re- 
member it  as  though  it  were  yesterday. 
It  was  a  play  in  pantomime  .  .  .  mostly 
.  .  .  and  the  minor  dialogue  consisted  of 
handwritten  'yes'  and  'no'  signs.  Just  why 
I  thought  the  signs  were  more  effective 
than  a  good  nod  or  shake  of  the  head, 
escapes  me  at  the  moment.  It  was  prob- 
ably just  that  I  wanted  to  show  off  my 
written  vocabulary!  .  .  .  Anyway,  from 
that  point  on,  I  had  Stardust  in  my  eyes. 
And,  within  the  bounds  of  normal,  every- 
day living,  my  folks  encouraged,  me." 

In  the  course  of  growing  up,  the  time 
came  for  music  lessons.  Mary  Linn's 
abilities  at  the  keyboard  were  such  that 
for  a  while  it  seemed  she  might  enter  the 
entertainment  field  as  a  pianist  rather 
than  as  an  actress.  In  fact,  for  a  time  she 
did  play  the  piano  on  the  old  Horn  and 
Hardart  Children's  Hour  radio  program. 
It  was  while  she  was  playing  for  The 
Children's  Hour  that  her  parents  decided 
dramatic  lessons  would  help  her,  and  it 
was  a  teacher  at  the  dramatic  school  who 
suggested  she  take  a  CBS  Radio  audition. 
"Despite  the  fact  that  I  wrote  my  own 
script,"  Mary  Linn  laughs,  "I  passed  the 
audition,  and  CBS  put  me  on  their  list  of 
newcomers  to  be  called  upon  for  bit  parts. 
It  must  have  been  quite  a  list,  for  it  was 
a  full  year  before  I  heard  from  them. 
But  the  day  finally  did  come.  I  was 
twelve — and  I  was  to  make  my  profes- 
sional radio  debut  on  Our  Miss  Brooks. 
And  wouldn't  you  know  .  .  .  the  day  be- 
fore rehearsal,  I  came  down  with  laryn- 
gitis!    But  good! 

"Mother  must  have  been  beside  herself. 

But,  if  she  was,  she  didn't  let  on  to  me. 

She    just    sprayed    my    throat    .    .    .    and 

T    sprayed  it  .  .  .  and  sprayed  it.    And,  by  the 

v    time  we  got  to  the  studio,  I  had  recovered 

B    enough  to  be  audible.     However,  Mother 

had  agreed  to   do  all  the  talking,   except 

script    reading,    of    course,    so    that    what 

96 


little  voice  I  had  could  be  saved.  Well, 
after  all  that,  my  part  turned  out  to  be 
one  short  giggle  ...  for  $7.50!" 

Be  that  as  it  may,  it  wasn't  long  before 
CBS  was  calling  her  for  bit  parts — and,  as 
Mary  Linn  explains,  "One  thing  led  to 
another,  and  you  can  be  sure  I  never  again 
made  a  mountain  out  of  a  molehill,  as  I 
did  that  first  time.  I  learned  to  relax 
and  take  things  as  they  come." 

Two  years  later,  during  summer  vaca- 
tion, Mary  Linn  went  to  Ridgefield,  Con- 
necticut, where  Alexander  Kirkland  oper- 
ated a  little  theater.  In  connection  with 
the  playhouse,  Mr.  Kirkland  ran  a  drama 
school  for  young  hopefuls.  In  addition 
to  their  studies,  these  apprentices  also 
had  the  opportunity  of  doing  bit  parts  in 
a  number  of  the  summer  productions. 
If  you  were  lucky,  an  agent  in  the  au- 
dience might  spot  you.  An  agent  did  spot 
her,  and  the  result  was  better  roles. 

"Then,  the  following  year,"  Mary  Linn 
recalls,  "along  came  what,  at  fifteen,  I 
thought  was  the  answer  to  my  heart's  de- 
sire— an  opening  night  on  Broadway! 
Funny,  the  way  things  work  out  .  .  .  for 
almost  any  actor  or  actress,  the  really  tre- 
mendous thrill  is  a  Broadway  opening 
night.  I  couldn't  have  been  more  ex- 
cited over  getting  a  small  part  in  a  play 
called  'Leaf  and  Bough.'  We  opened  out 
of  town  and,  after  playing  three  cities,  it 
became  obvious  that  our  stay  on  Broad- 
way— assuming  we  ever  arrived — would 
be,  shall  we  say,  brief. 

"To  make  matters  worse,  it  was  Christ- 
mas and  I  was  lonely  and  homesick.  This 
was  the  first  time  I  had  ever  been  away 
from  the  family  during  a  holiday  season. 
Well,  we  did  make  it  to  Broadway  .  .  . 
and  I  must  admit  that,  despite  my  state 
of  mind,  the  opening-night  thrill  was  be- 
yond mere  words.  But  .  .  .  when  we  closed 
three  nights  later  ...  I  must  also  admit  I 
suffered  no  great  depression.  I  had  had 
my  opening-night  thrill.  But,  of  even  more 
importance,  I  was  ecstatically  happy  to 
be  home.  Someday,  I  hope  to  be  on  Broad- 
way again." 

In  1950,  Mary  Linn  was  graduated  from 
a  New  York  City  high  school  and,  after 
a  family  conclave,  decided  that — even 
though  she  wanted  to  be  an  actress — she 
should  first  complete  her  education.  Ben- 
nington College  in  Vermont  seemed  to 
be  the  perfect  answer,  since  part  of  the 
curriculum  consisted  of  "work  periods" 
during  which  the  students  actually  work 
in  their  chosen  professions  for  credits. 

During  her  first  work  period,  Mary  Linn 
was  lucky  enough  to  pick  up  a  contract 
for  an  important  role  in  TV's  first  day- 
time serial,  The  First  Hundred  Years.  It 
proved  to  be  the  end  of  her  college 
career — and  the  beginning  of  a  highly  suc- 
cessful TV  career.  "When  the  time  came 
to  return  to  college,"  Mary  Linn  explains, 
"I  just  couldn't  bear  to  give  up  my  TV 
role.  At  the  time  we  all  wondered 
whether  I  was  doing  the  right  thing.  But 
it  was  soon  clear  that  the  decision  had 
been  a  good  one." 

Then  came  1952.  A  red-letter,  banner 
year  in  Mary  Linn's  young  life.  Besides 
walking  off  with  the  title  role  of  A  Date 
With  Judy,  she  won  the  radio  role  of 
Babby  in  The  Brighter  Day  .  .  .  eventu- 
ally annexing  the  TV  role,  too.  And 
on  June  19th,  she  met  a  young  man  at 
a  party!  "Bob  Pitofsky  made  quite  an 
impression  on  me  that  first  night,"  she 
grins.  "No  matter  what  I  did,  I  couldn't 
get  him  to  pay  one  bit  of  attention  to  me. 
I  finally  resorted  to  asking  my  date 
about  him  and  was  promptly  told  to  relax 
.  .  .  Bob  was  going  steady — and,  anyway, 
I  looked  too  young. 


"Up  to  this  point,  looking  younger  than 
I  was  had  always  been  lucky  for  me.  What 
I  mean  is,  when  I  first  got  the  role  on 
Brighter  Day,  for  instance,  Babby  was 
supposed  to  be  about  fifteen.  Well,  it's 
hard  to  find  a  fifteen-year-old  with  as 
much  acting  experience  as  a  nineteen- 
year-old  who  looks  fifteen — as  I  did.  The 
same  thing  had  been  true  of  Judy. 

"So,  up  to  the  time  I  met  Bob,"  she 
says  ruefully,  "it  had  never  occurred  to 
me  to  wish  I  looked  a  couple  of  years 
older!  And  there  didn't  seem  to  be  much 
I  could  do  about  it.  You  know,  you  are 
what  you  are,  and  that's  that.  Anyway, 
if  he  was  seriously  dating  a  girl,  that,  too, 
was  that.  But  it  didn't  stop  me  from 
thinking  .  .  .  and,  the  more  I  saw  him 
at  parties  and  dances,  the  more  I  found 
myself  comparing  my  own  dates  with  this 
young  man  I  barely  knew. 

Ihen,  when  I  least  expected  it,  it  hap 
pened.  Exactly  one  year  to  the  day 
after  we  met,  Bob  called  me  for  our  first 
date.  Believe  it  or  not,  we  had  a  miser- 
able time.  Everything  was  wrong.  We 
couldn't,  either  one  of  us,  be  ourselves. 
By  the  end  of  the  evening,  we  were  quib- 
bling over  everything. 

"But  Bob,  bless  him,"  she  beams,  "didn't 
let  too  much  water  run  under  the  bridge 
.  .  .  and,  by  the  time  he  called  for  a 
second  date,  we  had  both  settled  down  to 
being  ourselves.  The  result  was  a  wed- 
ding in  September,  1954.  Forgive  me  for 
saying  so,  but  it  was  a  lovely  wedding 
at  the  Waldorf-Astoria  Hotel  and  a 
scrumptious  honeymoon  in  Florida.  And, 
when  we  came  back,  we  came  back  to 
the  apartment  we're  in  now.  Of  course, 
there  wasn't  as  much  furniture  as  there 
is  now  ...  in  fact,  there  was  very  little. 
But  Bob  and  I  could  come  back  to  our 
own  place,  and  fix  it  up  bit  by  bit. 

"Neither  Bob  nor  I  are  very  handy 
around  the  house,  but  we  do  have  ideas, 
and  with  the  help  of  my  aunt — who's  a 
perfectly  wonderful  decorator — we've 
wound  up  with  what  we  think  is  a  really 
attractive  home.  We  love  it  and  hope  all 
who  enter  it  will  love  it  along  with  us." 

Mary  Linn  has  every  right  in  the  world 
to  love  her  attractive  five-room  apart- 
ment across  from  New  York's  Central 
Park.  If  things  like  her  wall  of  book- 
cases in  the  living  room — which  open  up 
to  reveal  four  closets  hidden  behind  them 
— are  the  envy  of  New  York,  it's  with 
justification. 

"Every  once  in  a  while,"  she  admits, 
"somebody  questions  why  two  working 
people  need  five  rooms  .  .  .  and  aren't  we 
foolish  to  invest  so  much  in  permanent 
improvements  on  an  apartment  we're  just 
renting?  I  think  the  idea  behind  the  lat- 
ter question  is:  Why  make  a  home  out  of 
an  apartment?  Maybe  it's  strange  to  lots 
of  people,  but  not  to  me.  You  see,  I  was 
born  and  raised  in  a  New  York  apart- 
ment. So  was  Bob.  We're  not  subur- 
banites. We  like  the  city.  Our  friends, 
from  childhood  up,  are  here.  So,  this  is 
our  home.  As  for  the  five  rooms  and  two 
baths  .  .  .  Well,  someday  we  hope  there 
will  be  more  of  us  and,  as  far  as  space 
is  concerned,  we're  ready  for  that  event. 
And  then  there's  the  park  right  across 
the  street  .  .  .  and  that's  what  city  parks 
are  for,  isn't  it? 

"So  perhaps  now  you  can  see  why  I 
think  I'm  such  a  lucky  girl.  I  have  the 
happy  blending  of  two  wonderful  families 
near  by — mine  and  Bob's  ...  a  husband 
I  love  very  much  ...  a  career  that  is 
extremely  satisfying — and  a  future  that 
looks  brighter  every  day.  What  more  is 
there?" 


I 


Elvis 
Presley 


the  hottest 


the 

atom  bomb 


NOW  HIS  LIFE  STORY 
over  100  pictures 


Don't  miss  this  entertainment-filled, 

picture-filled, 

thrilling  story  of  the  fantastic 

success  of  Elvis  Presley— Just  25t. 


GET  YOUR  COPY  AT  YOUR  NEWSSTAND 

—  if  your  newsdealer  has  sold  out,  send  254 
now,  today,  with  this  coupon. 


BARTHOLOMEW  HOUSE   INC. 

DEPT.  WG-9-56 

205  EAST  42  ST.,  NEW  YORK  17,  N.  Y. 

SIRS: 

I  ENCLOSE  25<f.  PLEASE  RUSH  THE  ELVIS  PRESLEY  ALBUM 
TOME. 

NAME 

PLEASE  PRINT 

ADDRESS 

CITY STATE 


Wpry  gfoir 

|M»TllEROIl.  SHAMPOO 

'•»T(»i]     a     rfe»* 

*  i  .  o  u  »      ,.<•»* 
N    II    BRICK  IHC 


*  1,00  EST 

2^  oz  vfflireckjX/remv  &iwb& 
8   OZ    6RECK   SHAMPOO 


e  a  u 


B 


R 


/    eft  air 


C 


K 


COMBINATION  OFFER  OF  CREME  RINSE  WITH  BRECK  SHAMPOO 


There  are  Three  Breck  Shampoos  for  three 
different 'hair  conditions.  One  Breck  Shampoo 
is  for  dry  hair,  another  is  for  oily  hair, 
and  a  third  is  for  normal  hair.  The  Breck 
Shampoo  for  your  individual  hair  condition 
leaves  your  hair  soft,  lustrous  and  beautiful. 


Breck  Creme  Rinse  is  used  after  the  shampoo 
to  add  softness,  lustre  and  manageability  to 
your  hair.  It  makes  combing  and  arranging 
easy.  Breck  Creme  Rinse  is  helpful  in  the 
care  of  dry,  brittle  hair.  Enjoy  fragrant 
Breck  Creme  Rinse  after  your  next  shampoo. 


A  ZYi  oz.  bottle  of  Breck  Creme  Rinse  with  a  $1.00  bottle  of  one  of  the  Three  Breck  Shampoos  -  both  for  $1.00  plus  3 £  federal  tax. 
Instructions  for  making  the  distinctive  jeweled  mirror  shown  above  are  available  on  request. 

JOHN        H        BRECK       INC       ■        DEPT       A        •         115        D WIGHT        STREET       •         SPRINGFIELD      .       MASSACHUSETTS 

Copynght  1950  by  John  II.  Bmk  Inc. 


r 


RADIO 


l  \ MIRROR 

iDIO  MIRROR'S  N.  Y.,  N.  J.,  Conn.  Edition 


NEW! 

HAL  MARCH 

BUDDY  MERRILL 

MARY  STUART 

CLINT  WALKER 

ERNIE  KOVACS 


ARTHUR   GODFREY 
AND   SUNSAN 


ttitt 


oaM: 


and  you  can  prove  it  wi+h  a  Palmolive  bar! 


£7101*.  ~>£t  &£fa^e(Zf^  &D<Se&w£af 


/Hidden  dirt  is  a  beauty 
thief!  Rub  your  face  hard 
with  a  cotton  pad  after  ordinary* 
casual  cleansing  with  your  regular 
soap  or  face  cream.  See  the  ugly 
smudge  the  pad  picks  up?  That's 
deep-down  dirt  that  casual  cleans- 
ing  misses  .  .  .  dirt  that  hides  the 
prettiness  of  your  complexion. 


fj  Beautifully  clean  after  60 
^*  •  second  Palmolive  facial 
Rub  your  face  the  same  way  with  a 
cotton  pad  after  a  60-second  mas- 
sage with  Palmolive  Soap.  Pad  is 
still  snowy-white  .  .  .  proving  that 
Palmolive  care  cleans  deeper*  cleans 
cleaner,  cleans  prettier!  And  mild 
Palmolive  won't  irritate  your  skin. 


''UWMH 


N, 


ew  complexion  beauty  in  just  one  minute?  Yes,  fair  lady,  yes!  Because  Palmolive  care  removes 
beauty-robbing  hidden  dirt  that  casual  cleansing  misses.  And  only  a  soap  as  mild  as  Palmolive  can  cleanse  so 
deeply  without  irritation.  Start  Palmolive  care  today,  and  see  your  true  complexion  beauty  come  through! 


■^B   Ei  WW 


MUIVI 


PHOTOGRAPH     BY    RICHARD    AVEDON 


CREAM 


The  doctor's  deodorant  discovery 
that  now  safely  stops  odor  24  hours  a  day 


Underarm  comparison  tests  made 
by  doctors  proved  a  deodorant  without 
M-3  stopped  odor  only  a  few  hours  — 
while  New  Mum  with  M-3  stopped 
odor  a  full  24  hours! 


You're  serene.  You're  sure  of  yourself.  You're  bandbox  perfect  from  the  skin  out. 

And  you  stay  that  way  night  and  day  with  New  Mum  Cream. 

Because  New  Mum  now  contains  M-3  (hexachlorophene)  which  clings  to 

your  skin  —  keeps  on  stopping  perspiration  odor  24  hours  a  day. 

So  safe  you  can  use  it  daily  — won't  irritate  normal  skin  or  damage  fabrics. 


ANOTHER   FINE   PRODUCT  OF  BRISTOL-MYERS 


SI     KIND  TO  YOUR  SKIN  AND  CLOTHES 


Send  Today  for  Your 

® 


BeautyBonu 

3  NYLONS 

"o  pair  and  a  spare" 
60  gauge  •  75  denier 

A  ®2—  VALUE   FOR 

oo 


;    HOKIBOB 

\m    *ob«twi«s 


with  the  top  of  each 

hold-bob" 

BOBBY  PIN  CARD 

Gayla  hold-bob  with  Flexi-Grip,  the 
world's  best  bobby  pin,  offers  you  a 
Beauty  Bonus  of  sheer,  luxurious,  60 
gauge,  15  denier  nylons  at  savings  of 
over  one-half.  You  can  get  a  set  of 
three  of  these  leg-flattering  nylons  by 
sending  only  $1.00  with  the  top  of  a 
Gayla  hold-bob  bobby  pin  card  or 
Gayla  Hair  Net  envelope.  Insist  on 
Gayla  hold-bob,  the  bobby  pin  more 
women  prefer  over  all  others,  and 
send  for  these  beautifully  fitting,  long 
wearing  nylons  today! 


MAIL  THIS  COUPON  TODAY 


I   GAYLORD  PRODUCTS,  INCORPORATED,  DEPT.  T-10 
1918  Prairie  Ave.,  Chicago  16,  ill. 

I   Please  send,  postpaid ,__— sets  (a  pair  and  a  spare)  of 


.    nylons  as  checked  below.  Enclosed  is  $1.00  (no  stamps) 

I   plus  the  top  of  a  Gayla  HOLD-BOB  Bobby  Pin  Card,  or  a 
Gayla  Hair  Net  Envelope,  for  each  set.  (The  top  of  a25c 
I   card  entitles  you  to  order  2  sets.) 
Coltr:     D  Morning  Mist     D  Desert  Sand     O  French  Rose 
I(Gr»»lih  Taupe)         (Browilth  Beige)  (Rely  Hue) 

Sbt;      D8V4    D9    D  9V4    D  10    D  10%    D  11 
|  O  Skirt    D  Medium    Q  Long      D  Sell  Seam    D  Dark  Seam 

I    NAME [Pie...  Print) ~~ 

|  ADDRESS 

■  CITY STATE 

This  offer  good  only  in  continental  United  States, 

L Hawaii  and  Alaska.  Offer  subject  to  State  and  Local 
requirements  and  may  be  withdrawn  without  notice. 


TV 


RADIO 
MIRROR 


OCTOBER,    1956 


N.Y.,  N.J.,  CONN.  EDITION 


VOL.  46,  NO.  5 


Ann  Higginbotham,  Editorial  Director 


Ann  Mosher,  Editor 
Teresa  Buxton,  Managing  Editor 
Claire  Safran,  Associate  Editor 
Jan  Coble,  Assistant  Editor 


Jack  Zasorin,  Art  Director 
Frances  Maly,  Associate  Art  Director 
Joan  Clarke,  Art  Assistant 
Bud  Goode,  West  Coast  Editor 


PEOPLE  ON  THE  AIR 

What's  New  From  Coast  to  Coast by  Jill  Warren  4 

Man  of  Many  Talents  (Arthur  Godfrey) by  Martin  Cohen  27 

The  Right  To  Happiness  (Claudia  Morgan) by  Marion  Helman  30 

House  Party  for  Blonds  (Jack  Slattery) by  Bud  Goode  32 

These  Two  (Jan  Miner  and  Terry  O'Sullivan) by  Frances  Kish  34 

Only  Yesterday  (John  Graham) by  Elizabeth  Ball  36 

"Cheyenne !" by  Clint  Walker  38 

Small  Town  Girl  (Dorothy  Olsen) by  Peter  Charade  52 

The  Edge  Of  Night  (picture  story  from  the  popular  daytime  drama)....  54 

A  Homeful  of  Humor  (Jack  Paar) by  Ed  Meyerson  58 

Who's  Who  on  Telephone  Hour    (Donald  Voorhees,  Eileen  Farrell, 
Barbara    Gibson,    Grant    Johannesen,    Michael    Rabin    and    Lorin 

Hollander)    60 

In  Love  With  Life  (Tirrell  Barbery) by  Mary  Temple  64 

FEATURES  IN  FULL  COLOR 

Dream  Stuff  (Buddy  Merrill) by  Pauline  Townsend  42 

"I'm  Glad  I  Waited"  (Hal  March) by  Marie  Haller  44 

Welcome,  Little  Strangers!  (Mary  Stuart). .by  Mary  Parker  Sherwood  48 

A  Royal  Good  Time  (Ernie  Kovacs  and  Edie  Adams) 

by  Gregory  Merwin  50 

YOUR  LOCAL  STATION 

"To  the  Women  I  Love"  (WOR) 6 

Happy  Traveler  ( WNBF-TV) 14 

Hurley  In  The  Morning  (WINS) 16 

Movie    Museum 20 

YOUR  SPECIAL  SERVICES 

Can  I  Help  You?  (exciting  new  reader  service) by  Joan  Davis      8 

Information  Booth 10 

TV  Gossip 10B 

New  Designs  for  Living  (needlecraft  and  transfer  patterns) 18 

On  the  Record by  Joan  Wallace  22 

Inside  Radio  (program  listings) 74 

TV  Program  Highlights 76 

New  Patterns  for  You  (smart  wardrobe  suggestions) 82 

Cover  portrait  of  Arthur  Godfrey  and  Sunsan  by  Ozzie  Sweet 


BUY  YOUR  NOVEMBER  ISSUE  EARLY  •  ON  SALE  OCTOBER  4 


.sill 


PUBLISHED       MONTHLY      by      Macfadden 
Publications,    Inc.,   New  York,   N.   Y. 
V*L    EXECUTIVE,      ADVERTISING      AND      EDI- 
\  o  TORIAL      OFFICES      at      205      East      42nd 
v      Street,   New  York.   N.   Y.    Editorial   Branch 
,  Office:    6269    Selina    Ave..    Hollywood    28, 
Calif.     Irving    S.    Manheimer,     President; 
Lee      Andrews,      Vice      President;      Meyer 
'"'OliO        Dworkin,   Secretary  and  Treasurer,   Adver- 
tising offices  also   in   Chicago,    221   North 
LaSalle    Street,    and   San   Francisco. 

SUBSCRIPTION     RATES:     $3.00    one    year,    U.     S.     and 
Possessions  and   Canada.   $5.00   per  year  for   all   other 

countries.  

CHANGE  OF  ADDRESS:  6  weeks'  notice  essential.  When 
possible,  please  furnish  stencil  impression  address 
from  a  recent  issue.  Address  changes  can  be  made  only 
If  you  send  us  your  old,  as  well  as  your  new  address. 
Write  to  TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East  42nd  Street,  New 
York  17,  N.  Y 
MANUSCRIPTS:   All  manuscripts  will  be  carefully  con- 


sidered, but  publisher  cannot  be  responsible  for  loss  or 
damage.  It  is  advisable  to  keep  a  duplicate  copy  for 
your  records.  Only  those  manuscripts  accompanied  by 
stamped,  self-addressed  return  envelopes  or  with  suffi- 
cient return  postage  will  be  returned. 
FOREIGN  editions  handled  through  Macfadden  Publi- 
cations International  Corp.,  205  East  42nd  Street,  New 
York  17,  N.  Y.  Irving  S.  Manheimer,  President;  Doug- 
las Lockhart,   Vice  President. 

RE-ENTERED  as  Second  Class  Matter,  June  28,  1954, 
at  the  Post  Office  at  New  York.  N.  Y.,  under  the  Act  of 
March  3,  1879.  Authorized  as  Second  Class  mail,  P.  O. 
Dept.„  Ottawa,  Ont,,  Canada.  Copyright  1956  by  Mac- 
fadden Publications,  Inc.  All  rights  reserved  under  In- 
ternational Copyright  Convention.  All  rights  reserved 
under  Pan-American  Copyright  Convention.  Todos  de- 
rechos  reservados  segun  la  Convencion  Pan-Americana 
de  Propiedad  Literaria  y  Artistica.  Title  trademark 
registered  in  U.S.  Patent  Office.  Printed  in  U.  S.  A. 
by  Art  Color  Printing  Company. 

Member   of   the   TRUE    STORY    Women's    Group 


HOLLYWOOD  DISCOVERY!   A  non-drying  spray-set  with 


QeU  ^CdfL-h  start— &L  Scrfpdr  iaJCM 


\ 


"My  hair  always  looks  its  best 
—thanks  to  Lustre-Net!"  says 

Co-starring  in  "A  CRY   IN   THE   NIGHT" 

A  Jaguar  Production  presented 
by  Warner  Bros. 


A  / 


New  SUPER-SOFT 


Lu£bT£.-fj0t 


the  spray-set  with  lanolin  esters! 


Keeps  hair  in  place  the  Hollywood  way— without  stiffness  or 

stickiness!  New  Super-Soft  LUSTRE-NET  is  the  softest  way 

imaginable  to  keep  waves  and  curls  in  place— for  it 

contains  not  one  single  drop  of  lacquer ! 

Helps  prevent  dryness!  Super-Soft  LUSTRE-NET 

contains  lanolin  esters  to  discourage  dryness, 

preserve  softness. 

Quick-sets  hair-do's  .  .  .  ends  sleeping  on  pins! 

Set  pin-curls  in  damp  or  dry  hair.  Then  spray 

with  Super-Soft  LUSTRE-NET.  Curls  and  Makes  any  pin-curl 

waves  dry  in  a  jiffy,  brush  out  style  set  faster,  manage 

soft  and  shining. 


easier,  last  longer! 


THERE   ARE 


SUPER-SOFT-gentle  control 
for  loose,  casual  hair-do's. 
Contains  no  lacquer  at  all. 
Spray  it  on  regularly  when 
you  comb  your  hair. 


LUSTRE-NETS 


REGULAR— extra  control  for 
hard-to-manage  hair,  or  curly 
hair-do's.  No  lacquered  look, 
no  lacquer  odor.  Sets  pin- 
curls  in  hair  when  dry. 


5M  oz. — a  full  ounce  more  .  .  .  Only  $1.25  plus  tax 
By  the  makers  of  Lustre- Creme  Shampoo 


ask,  k&nJ  Luafte-M^r 

recommended  by  Top  Hollywood  Movie  Stars 


•    BY  JILL   WARREN 


Laughs  ahead  as  Gale  Storm  plays  a  ship's 
social  director  in  CBS-TV's  Oh!  Susanna. 


Love  in  Bloom  isn't  the  only  number  in  Jack  Benny's  repertoire. 
The  comic  will  play  classic  violin  at  a  benefit  at  Carnegie  Hall. 


NEW    FROM 


The  fall  season  is  here  once  again,  with  lots  of  new 
shows  on  all  the  networks. 

NBC: 

Walter  Winchell  is  scheduled  for  a  Friday-night  half- 
hour  program,  if  and  when  contracts  are  finally  signed, 
which  could  be  by  the  time  you  read  this.  Tentatively 
titled  The  Walter  Winchell  Show,  it  will  probably  be 
variety  in  format,  with  the  biggest  stars  as  weekly  guests, 
— plus,  of  course,  WW,  with  his  "flashes"  and  rapid-fire 
delivery,  acting  as  emcee. 

Definitely  set  for  a  regular  Friday-night  time  is  a  new 
half-hour  film  series,  On  Trial,  with  Joseph  Cotten  as 
host-narrator.  He  will  also  star  in  several  of  the  shows 
during  the  season,  all  based  on  famous  court  trials. 

The  Chevy  Show  returns  to  its  usual  Tuesday-night 
spot,  leading  off  this  year  on  September  18,  with  Dinah 


Shore  as  the  star.  In  addition  to  her  regular  fifteen-minute 
show,  she'll  do  other  Chevy  programs  during  the  season, 
sharing  the  spotlight  with  Bob  Hope  and  others.  A  new 
show,  Washington  Square,  will  alternate  Tuesday  nights 
with  Chevy.  This  is  the  Ray  Bolger  series,  with  music, 
dancing  and  comedy  all  set  in  a  Greenwich  Village  locale. 

Perry  Como  and  Sid  Caesar  go  back  to  work  Saturday 
night,  September  15.  Besides  having  a  new  time  period, 
Caesar's  Hour  also  has  new  cast  members,  Janet  Blair, 
Shirl  Conway  and  Pat  Carroll,  and  regulars  Carl  Reiner 
and  Howard  Morris,  to  vie  for  laughs  with  boss-man  Sid. 
Caesar's  Hour  will  be  seen  three  Saturdays  out  of  each 
month,  with  a  spectacular  on  the  fourth  Saturday. 

Jan  Miner  fans  are  thrilled  by  the  return  of  Hilltop 
House.  Now,  in  addition  to  her  great  role  in  The  Second 
Mrs.  Burton  (see  story  on  page  36) ,  Jan  once  again  stars  as 
(Continued  on  page  24) 


NATIONAL  BOOK  CLUB'S 


CASH 
PRIZES 


OF  FAME'CONTEST! 


Do  you  enjoy  the  fun,  excitement 
and  thrills  of  solving  picture  puz- 
"zles?  Sure  you  do  .  .  .  everybody  does 
.  .  .  especially  when  your  skill  can  bring  you  as  much 
as  $25,000  in  cold  cash.  And  right  now  is  your  chance 
to  share  in  the  action,  the  challenge,  and  .  .  .  yes  .  .  . 
the  cash  awards,  too  ...  of  one  of  the  greatest  puzzle 
contests  ever  run  in  the  United  States !  It's  the  sensa- 
tional new  National  Contest  Book  Club  Puzzle  Con- 
test, just  getting  under  way  .  .  .  with  200  great  cash 
prizes  totaling  $40,000! 
Just  think  what  you  could  do  with  prize  money  like 


that ...  all  yours  in  a  lump  sum !  It  could  buy  you  a  beautiful  new 
home  .  .  .  free  and  clear !  A  stunning  new  car,  a  boat,  a  luxury  vaca- 
tion cruise  around  the  world!  It  could  pay  for  a  college  education 
foryour  youngsters,  or  make  your  own  retirement 
easier.  It  could  give  you  a  start  in  your  own  business. 
It  could  bring  you  the  wonderful  security  that  comes 
with  a  big,  solid  bank  account!  Epter  now,  and  you 
may  be  a  prize  winner  of  any  of  200  big  cash  prizes 
that  must  be  paid.   Enter  now  and  make  yourself 
eligible   to   win   a   fabulous   $2,500.00   promptness 
bonus  along  with  first  prize  of  $22,500 — a  grand 
total  of  $25,000.00. 


THIS  SAMPLE  PUZZLE  IS  ALL  WORKED  OUT  FOR  YOU 

SEE  HOW  MUCH  FUN  IT  IS  TO  SOLVE! 


This  sample  puzzle,  as  all  our  puzzles,  has  3 
clues  to  help  you  reach  the  answer.  First, 
study  the  cartoon.  Here  it  shows  one  man  say- 
ing MARK,  and  the  other  mentions  the  word 
POLE.  The  letter  "O"  is  shown  twice.  What 
else  can  the  answer  be  but  MARCO  POLO? 
Below  the  cartoon,  4  names  are  listed  as  your 
second  clue.  Among  them  is  MARCO  POLO 
so  you  know  your  answer  is  right.  For  the 
third  clue,  look  at  the  bottom  portion  of  the 
puzzle.  You  will  see  that  various  objects  and 
letters  of  the  alphabet  are  portrayed.  Identify 
each  of  the  objects  and  add  or  subtract  the 
letters  as  indicated.  First  there  is  a  POT. 
You  are  told  to  subtract  the  letter  T,  then 
you  add  the  word  CLOCK  which  is  the  next 
pictured  object.  Then,  you  subtract  the  let- 
ters C  C  K.  By  correctLy  adding  and  subtract- 
ing you  are  left  with  the  letters  POLO.  This 
spells  the  correct  LAST  NAME. 


The  Correct  Answer  Is  ONE  Of  These  Names  of  Fame! 

D  Marco  Polo  □  Betsy  Ross  □  Genghis  Khan  Q  Frank  Buck 


-T     +'f\i    -CCK 


POLO 


HERE  IS  YOUR  FIRST  PUZZLE! 

Write  Your  Answer  In  Coupon  Below  for  right)  Mail  It  NOW! 


PUZZLE 
NO.  ONE 


I  The  Correct  Answer  Is  ONE  Of  These  Names  of  Fame! 
□  Billy  Sunday  □  Robert  Fulton  □  Cotton  Mather  rjIraRemsen 


-&-€*  -PR   + 


ABBREVIATION   FOR 
NORTH  DAKOTA 


-TR  = 


1st  PRIZE 

ASMUCH    AS 

$25,000.00 

PLUS  200  BIG  CASH 
AWARDS,  SUCH  AS: 

2nd  Prize $5,000.00 

3rd  Prize 2,500.00 

4th  Prize 1,500.00 

5th  Prize 1,000.00 

6th  thru  10th  ea.      200.00 

Plus  190  additional 
Cash  Prizes 

—  Grand  Total  $40,000.00  — 

PRIZES  PAID  PROMPTLY 

IN   2  YEARS  $133,000.00  AWARDED 
FROM   NATIONAL   PUZZLE   CONTESTS 

National  Puzzle  Contests  have  offered  $133,000.00  in  prizes  within  the 
short  space  of  2  years!  That's  a  whale  of  a  lot  of  money!  But  now  the 
National  Contest  Book  Club . . .  with  prizes  of  an  additional  $40,000 . . .  will 
raise  that  grand  total  to  $173,000.00!  If  you  are  18  years  of  age  or  older' 
and  live  in  the  U.  S.,  Canada  or  a  U.  S.  Possession,  you  are  eligible  to 
enter  this  fabulous  contest.  It  is  sponsored  by  the  National  Contest  Book 
Club,  Inc.  AH  judging  will  be  conducted  in  an  impartial,  impersonal  man- 
ner to  assure  absolute  equality  of  opportunity  to  all.  All  contestants  will 
receive  exact  information  on  the  outcome  of  the  contest  .  .  .  including  names 
of  all  winners,  plus  correct  puzzle  solutions.  All  prizes  will  be  paid 
promptly,  in  full.  All  cash  prizes  are  held  in  escrow  at  the  BANKERS 
TRUST  COMPANY,  N.  Y. 

To  Aff  Puzzle  Entrants 


FREE 

GIFT! 


The  Puzzle  Encyclopedia 

Everyone  who  enters  the  National 
Contest  Book  Club  Puzzle  Contest  re- 
ceives this  fascinating  Puzzle  Encyclo- 
pedia. Contains  hundreds  of  quizzes, 
riddles,  puzzles.  Will  give  you  many, 
many  enjoyable  hours. 

Write  Your  Answer  In  Coupon  Below. 
We  Send  Complete  Contest  Details  Immediately.. 

-Give  Yourself  A  Chance  To  Win- 


MAIL  COUPON  TODAY 


-Give  Yourself  A  Chance  To  Win  i 

$2,500.00  PROMPTNESS  AWARD 


NATIONAL  CONTEST  BOOK  CLUB,  INC. 

509  Fifth  Avenue,  Dept.  131  New  York  City  17,  N.  Y. 


National  Contest  Book  Club,  Inc. 

509  Fifth  Ave.,  Dept.   131,  N.  Y.  C.  17,  N.  Y. 

My  Answer  to  Puzzle  No.  1  is: 

(PLEASE  PRINT) 


□ 


I  want  full  particulars  about  The  National  Contest  Book  Club's  $40,000 
"Name  of  Fame"  Contest.  Please  mail  me  FREE  the  Official  Entry  Forms, 
Rules  and  First  Series  of  Puzzles. 


Name. 


Address. 
City 


_Zone_ 


-State. 


9? 


That's  what  Marian  Young  Taylor's  husband  inscribed  to  WOR's  Martha  Deane 


Disarmament:  Marian  talks  to  Harold  Stassen,  Ike's  aide.  Diet  and  travel:  Marian's  guest  is  expert  Gayelord  Hauser. 


r  •  ^^ 

A 

i  irfhj&~« 

5    ....                l|'.;3S9Bfc    :jW 

9s 

Politics:  Sen.  and  Mrs.  Estes  Kefauver  visit  the  "Deanery."  Stage:  Comedian  Georgie  Jessel  is  in  Marian's  spotlight. 


Labor:  Marian  interviews  the  Secretary,  James  P.  Mitchell. 


Marian  Young  Taylor  should  have  been  twins.  In 
fact,  she  almost  was.  Her  maternal  grandmother 
was  one  of  thirteen  children.  Eleven  of  them  had  twins. 
Marian's  mother  was  a  twin.  Marian  made  her  debut 
as  a  single — although,  in  years  to  come,  she  herself  had 
twins.  At  which  point,  her  advertising  executive-hus- 
band had  a  client  present  her  with  an  Army  "E"  for 
"double  production  in  wartime."  .  .  .  Marian  is  currently 
celebrating  her  fifteenth  year  as  Martha  Deane.  She  is 
heard  weekdays  at  10:15  A.M.,  on  New  York's  Station 
WOR,  with  commentary  and  interviews  on  issues,  books 
and  people  in  the  news.  "I  have  never  done  a  'women's 
program,' "  Marian  insists.  She  plans  her  program 
around  what  will  be  of  interest  to  "people."  And,  at  an 
air  time  when  most  of  the  ears  available  for  lending  be- 
long to  women,  Marian  counts  males  as  twenty  percent 
of  her  audience.  .  .  .  From  WOR,  Marian  gets  "air,  a 
mike  and  an  engineer  .  .  .  positively  no  censorship  .  .  . 
absolutely  no  rows  with  the  bosses."  To  prepare  her  pro- 
gram, Marian  reads  five  papers  daily,  39  magazines 
monthly,  4,000  press  releases  yearly,  and  a  multitude 


I 


"Martha  Deane"  gladioli,  pale  gold  with  a  burgundy  center,  were  named  in  honor  of  radio's  first  lady. 


of  books,  novels  and  non-fiction,  regularly.  If  an  inter- 
view flags  in  interest:  "It's  all  my  fault,  I  didn't  ask  the 
right  questions.  The  angel  wasn't  sitting  on  the  roof 
that  day  or,"  Marian  smiles,  "he  was  busy  with  someone 
more  important."  .  .  .  Born  in  Star  Lake,  a  small  town 
in  upper  New  York,  Marian  taught  all  eight  grades  of 
a  country  school  for  a  year  to  save  money  to  come  to 
New  York  City.  She  went  to  work  for  the  Scripps- 
Howard  syndicate,  NEA.  As  Alicia  Hart,  she  wrote  about 
beauty.  As  Betsey  Schuyler,  she  covered  society.  As 
herself,  she  was  the  only  reporter  ever  to  interview 
Magda  Goebbels  and  the  only  woman  present  in  the 
Reichstag  when  Hitler  announced  his  troops  had  invaded 
the  Rhineland.  .  .  .  With  her  marriage  to  William  Boiling 
Taylor  eighteen  years  ago — and  her  debut  as  Martha 
Deane  fifteen  years  ago — the  girl  who  should  have  been 
twins  became  quintuplets,  at  least  in  point  of  her  five 
names.  In  1940,  she  and  Bill  built  the  first  modern  house 
out  on  Gardner's  Bay.  "The  neighbors  used  to  call  it  'a 
chicken  coop,'  "  she  says.  "Then,  during  the  war,  I  had 
twins,  the  cook  got  married,  and  when  Bill  came  home 


we  were  six  instead  of  three.  Our  'chicken  coop'  had  to 
be  enlarged  and  'modernized.'  "...  The  twins,  Bill,  Jr. 
and  Marian  Nicole,  were  born  New  Year's  Eve,  1943. 
"Nick  has  been  laughing  ever  since  she  was  delivered," 
says  Marian.  "Bill  is  thoughtful  and  serious.  He's  been 
saying  since  he  was  four  that  he'll  be  a  criminal  lawyer." 
.  .  .  Marian  is  modest  about  her  career  and  her  children, 
"but  not,"  she  laughs,  "about  my  gardening."  Mostly,  she 
plants  roses.  "You  get  more  for  your  time  with  roses," 
she  says.  She  also  has  a  perennial  border,  a  hillside  of 
daffodils,  "and  more  fun  gardening  than  is  possible."  Of- 
ten, she  gardens  at  night,  by  flashlight  or  gasoline  lamp. 
"Give  her  three  more  years,"  Bill,  Sr.  teases,  "and  there 
won't  be  an  inch  of  grass  left.  She'll  dig  it  all  up."  "I  just 
don't  like  grass,"  Martha  rejoins.  .  .  .  But  grass  aside, 
Bill's  in  love  with  five  women — and  has  put  it  in  writing 
to  all  of  them.  On  a  gold  and  jewelled  cigarette  case,  he 
inscribed:  "To  the  women  I  love:  Alicia  Hart,  Betsey 
Schuyler,  Marian  Taylor,  Martha  Deane,  Marian 
Young."  Then  followed  a  list  of  awards  to  these  women, 
to  which  Bill  added  his  own   citation — simply   "Best." 


EXCITING  NEW  READER  SERVICE! 


Through  the  years,  as  When  A  Girl 
Marries  has  run  its  daily  course 
over  ABC  Radio,  listeners  have  found 
a  wise  and  sympathetic  friend  in  Joan 
Davis — and  in  Mary  Jane  Higby,  who 
is  Joan's  counterpart  in  private  life. 
Letters  have  poured  in,  seeking  Joan's 
(or  Mary  Jane's)  advice  in  time  of 
family  crisis  or  personal  dilemma.  Be- 
lieving that  many  of  these  problems 
and  their  suggested  solutions  can  be  of 
help  to  others,  TV  Radio  Mirror  is 
opening  its  pages  to  these  correspond- 
ents from  all  over  the  nation.  Now  you 
can  take  advantage  of  this  chance  to 
"talk  things  over"  with  Joan  Davis! 
Just  follow  the  simple  instructions 
given  at  the  conclusion  of  this  column. 


Dear  Joan  Davis: 

My  problem  is  that  I  have  two  problems — 
either  one  of  which  I  think  I  could  handle, 
but  with  both  together  I  just  don't  know  what 
to  do.  Three  years  ago,  I  married  a  boy  I 
love  very  much,  though  he  has  a  terrible 
temper — the  yelling,  banging  kind.  For  the 
first  two  years,  it  got  much  better.  By  never 
losing  my  own  temper  in  the  same  way,  and 
by  taking  every  chance  to  kid  him  out  of  it, 
we  really  got  so  there  were  very  few  outbursts. 
In  every  other  way  he  is  a  wonderful  husband, 
and  we  have  been  as  happy  as  anyone  I  know. 
But  last  year,  when  my  father  died,  things 
worked  out  so  my  mother  had  to  come  to  live 
with  us.  She  isn't  well  enough  to  live  alone, 
and  we  already  had  the  extra  room.  The  trou- 
ble is  she  never  knew  about  my  husband's 
temper  before,  and  she  let  him  know  she  was 
shocked  the  first  time  he  raised  his  voice 
when  she  was  around.  He  has  never  acted 
angry  toward  her,  but  whenever  he  shows  any 
temper  about  anything,  she  makes  it  plain 
enough  how  wrong  she  thinks  it  is.  I  can  see 
my  husband  is  fretting  under  this  criticism 
and  constant  watching,  and  as  a  result  his 
flare-ups  have  begun  again.  I  have  hinted  to 
my  mother  to  be  more  tactful,  but  she  resents 
his  outbursts  too  much. 

Mrs.  B.  J. 

Then,  Mrs.  B.  J.,  with  all  due  respect  to 

your    mother — you   had ,  better   stop    hinting 

and    speak    out    plainly.     As    you    say,    you 

T    have   two   problems — two   human   beings   to 

*     deal    with.     But    these    are    not    two    equal 

"     problems.     Your    chief    responsibility    right 

now  is  your  marriage.  It  would  be  a  shame 

to  allow  an  outside  influence  to  undermine 

8 


By  JOAN  DAVIS 
of  "When  A  Girl  Marries" 


your  patient,  loving  efforts  .  .  .  and  your 
mother,  in  this  case,  is  very  much  an  out- 
side influence.  Of  course,  you  wish  to  re- 
main an  affectionate,  respectful  daughter. 
But,  if  your  mother  will  not  respond  to  tact- 
ful hints  offered  in  this  spirit,  it  would  cer- 
tainly be  advisable  to  put  your  case  frankly 
and  definitely,  as  one  grown  woman  to  an- 
other. Like  all  mothers,  yours  undoubtedly 
feels  you  deserve  an  ideal  home  and  hus- 
band. It  is  up  to  you  to  convince  her  that, 
while  you  may  not  have  these,  you  do  have 
something  you  prize  even  more  highly — a 
man  you  love  and  a  marriage  you  have 
shown  considerable  ability  to  make  a  happy 
one.  She  may  have  her  own  ideas  about 
handling  the  situation,  but  it  is  not  hers  to 
handle.  Your  husband  is  not  a  child  whom 
she  can  correct  and  mold  by  her  disapproval. 
Explain  to  her  that  her  desire  for  your  hap- 
piness is  actually  getting  in  the  way  of  it, 
and  that  she  is  increasing  your  burden  by 
these  misguided  efforts. 

You  might  also  keep  in  mind  that  the 
worst  thing  that  can  happen  is  a  division 
between  you  and  your  husband.  Let  him 
know,  privately,  that  you  don't  approve  of 
your  mother's  actions  and  realize  how  an- 
noying and  uncalled-for  they  are.  Point  out 
that,  since  she  is  elderly  and  unwell,  and  not 
yet  adjusted  to  living  under  a  roof  that  is 
not  her  own,  it  may  be  necessary  to  ignore 
some  of  her  irritating  habits.  Make  it  plain 
that  you  and  he   are   a   team — not  you   and 


your  mother  against  him.  It  may  be  un- 
pleasant, but  it  is  a  lesser  evil  than  allowing 
him  to  build  up  a  resentful  conviction  that 
you  share  your  mother's  censorious  attitude 
toward  him. 

Dear  Joan  Davis: 

I  am  going  on  fifteen  and  my  problem  is 
boys.  I  am  pretty  popular  and  have  plenty  of 
girl  friends.  But,  though  there  are  a  few 
boys  in  my  class  who  seem  to  like  to  talk  to 
me,  they  don't  treat  me  like  a  girl.  I  mean, 
even  if  I  go  to  a  movie  with  one,  it's  not  like  a 
date,  because  they  talk  about  their  problems 
all  the  time  or  even  ask  me  questions  about 
other  girls.  I  don't  think  they  think  of  me 
as  a  girl  at  all,  but  more  like  just  a  friend. 
How  can  I  get  them  to  think  of  me  the  way 
I  want? 

A.  L. 

Some  time  ago,  I  met  a  real  beauty — a 
girl  whose  face  and  figure  have  made  her 
one  of  the  country's  leading  models.  We 
became  friendly  enough  for  me  to  ask  her 
how  it  was  that,  with  so  many  men  to  choose 
from,  she  had  not  yet  married.  Her  an- 
swer was  a  little  funny — and  a  little  sad. 
"Don't  laugh,  Joan,"  she  said  ruefully,  "but 
I'm  scared  of  men!  Even  back  in  school, 
when  the  other  girls  were  envying  all  my 
dates,  I  was  scared.  Of  course  I  knew  a 
lot  of  them,  but  how  did  I  know  them? 
Just  the  side  they  wanted  to  show  me — al- 
ways treating  me  like  someone  who  had  to 
be  played  up  to!  -Joan,  I've  just  never  real- 
ly known  a  man,  the  bad  with  the  good. 
How  can  I  risk  marrying  one,  when  the 
whole  tribe  is  so  strange  to  me?" 

In  other  words,  A.L.,  you  are  complaining 
of  a  priceless  opportunity — the  chance  to 
build  a  sound,  serviceable  understanding  of 
what  my  glamorous  friend  called  "the  whole 
tribe"  on  a  basis  of  friendship.  What  bet- 
ter way  is  there  to  get  to  know  anyone  than 
to  have  him  bring  you  his  problems?  And 
remember — they  do  bring  them  to  you.  No- 
body can  be  a  truly  attractive  woman  with- 
out being  an  attractive  human  being.  If 
you  were  not  such  a  person,  do  you  think 
the  boys  you  know  would  be  interested  in 
being  with  you  at  all?  Don't  waste  this 
precious  time  in  bemoaning  that  you  are  not 
yet,  at  fifteen,  a  femme  fatale.  As  you  and 
your  figure  mature,  there  will  be  clothes  and 
make-up  to  enhance  the  femininity  you 
yearn  to  establish.  Meanwhile,  you  can  be 
developing  qualities  more  important  than 
the  superficial  attractiveness  that  can  be 
bought  in  any  store.  By  using  your  eyes, 
ears — and  sense  of  humor — you  can  become 
one  of  those  fortunate  women  who  know 
that  men  are  not  really  such  a  strange  "tribe," 
after  all.  (Continued  on  page  71) 


IB 


Look!  The  First  Weatherproof  Pin-curl  Permanent 


Richard  Hudnufs  NEW  SILICONED  PIN -QUICK 


WEATHER  CAN'T  WEAKEN  IT! 
WATER   CAN'T  WASH   IT  OUT! 

Forget  the  troubles  you've  had  with  ordinary  pin-curl 
permanents— starting  to  droop  from  the  first  shampoo 
...wilting  on  the  first  damp  day! 

Exciting  new  Pin-Quick  really  works!  Richard 
Hudnut  guarantees  it!  Curls  are  locked  in  to  stay— last 
and  last  till  you  cut  them  off!  Weather  can't  weaken  it 
...water  can't  wash  it  out!  Miracle-working  Silicone  in 
Pin-Quick  helps  keep  your  hair  soft,  lustrous,  far  easier 
to  manage.  See  how  beautifully  soft  your  pin-curl  wave 
can  be  with  New  Weatherproof  Pin-Quick.       $l30PLus  T»x 


5  TIMES  FASTER! 


OR  WITH  A  DRYER 
IN  MINUTES! 


RICHARD    HUDNUT    GUARANTEES    PIN-QUICK 

TO  LAST  LONGER  THAN  ANY  OTHER  PIN-CURL 

PERMANENT-OR  YOUR  MONEY  BACK! 


- 


WBjr 


^MmmfL 


i 


See  your  skin  look  cleaner,  finer, 
clearer,  smoother  in  just  10  days! 

•  Ordinary  skin  cleansers  were  never  made 
for  modern  make-ups! 

New-formula  Lady  Esther  4-Purpose  Face  Cream 
is  the  modern  cream  especially  blended 

to  clean,  soften,  refine,  and  protect 
your  complexion  from  the  clogging,  drying, 
aging  effects  of  make-up! 

Try  it  tonight — cream  or  liquid. 
Then  sleep  tight  with  a  radiantly  clean  skin 
safe  from  "make-up  damage." 


. purpose 
■face   cream 


WWOSEflHJEJfKE  CREAM 


</*ufy  £)lklA. 


10 


etflfc  tit*** 


©1956,  Lady  Ksther,  DiT! 


INFORMATION 
BOOTH 


Jack  Fascinate 


Music  Is  The  Key 

Please  publish  some  information  about 
Jack  Fascinato,  who  appears  on  NBC- 
TV's  Tennessee  Ernie  Ford  Show. 

E.  M.,   Connersville,  Ind. 

Although  an  accomplished  pianist,  the 
musical  director  of  the  Tennessee  Ernie 
Ford  Show  made  his  debut  at  the  age  of 
five — as  a  trumpet  player.  While  playing 
a  hymn  in  a  Shelbina,  Missouri  church, 
he  suddenly  forgot  the  music.  A  trouper, 
Jack  "faked"  until  he  remembered  the 
melody.  .  .  .  Jack  Fascinato  was  born 
in  Bevier,  Missouri,  the  son  of  a  music 
professor.  At  eight,  he  played  the  trumpet 
with  his  father's  band  at  the  Shelbina 
County  fair.  Schooled  at  the  American 
Conservatory  of  Music  in  Chicago,  Jack 
was  nineteen  when  he  became  the  music 
supervisor  of  the  Hannibal.  Missouri 
public  schools.  After  two  years,  he  re- 
turned to  the  Windy  City  to  be  a  pianist- 
arranger  for  a  number  of  top  bands,  for 
the  musical.  "Hot  Mikado."  and  the  film, 
"National  Barn  Dance."  .  .  .  Then  a  stint 
as  musical  director  of  NBC's  Starring  Curt 
Massey  was  followed  by  Jack's  entry  into 
the  Navy,  where  he  played  with  the  Navy 
Symphony  Orchestra  in  Washington, 
D.C.  ...  By  May,  1948.  Burr  Tillstrom 
spotted  Jack  for  his  Kukla,  Fran  And  Ollie 
family.  The  versatile  musician  wrote 
more  than  75  original  songs  for  the 
Kuklapolitans.  In  addition  to  the  piano. 
Jack  plays  all  brass  instruments,  as  well 
as  the  violin,  viola,  bass  and  tympany. 
Recently,  as  baton  man.  he  recorded 
"Cool  Man,"  "Sweet"  and.  of  course, 
Ernie's  "Sixteen  Tons."  .  .  .  He  lives 
with  his  pretty  wife  and  two  daughters — 
Tony,  10,  and  Tina.  9 — in  a  ranch-type 
home  in  Palm  Springs.  California.  An 
avid  baseball  fan,  Jack  is  also  interested 
in  photography  and  sports  cars.  His 
favorite  food  is  barbecued  spare  ribs.  His 
favorite  composer:  Maurice  Ravel.  His 
ambition :  "To  get  lost  and  write  music — 
maybe  for  a  Broadway  show." 
(Continued,  on  page  12) 


nr 


Light  up 
a  Lucky 

its  light-up  time! 


MM 


ALL  YOU  COULD  HOPE  FOR. 

A  Lucky  gives  you  the  one  thing 
you  want  in  a  cigarette:  better  taste!  Luckies 
are  made  of  fine  tobacco  — mild,  good-tasting 
tobacco  that's  TOASTED  to  taste  even  better. 
Have  you  tried  a  Lucky  lately?  You'll  say  it's  the 
best-tasting  cigarette  you  ever  smoked! 


©A.T.Co.       product  of     c^Jfetwm  Jo&vaeo~€enryi<t*w  America's  leading  manufacturer  of  cigarettes 


11 


INFORMATION  BOOTH 


(Continued  from  page  10) 


Don  Cherry 


Elinor  Donahue 


Carl  Smith 


Par  For  The  Course 

/  would  like  to  have  some  information 
about  Don  Cherry,  who  sings  on  Arthur 
Godfrey's  program  from  time  to  time. 

B.T.,  Oklahoma  City,  Okla. 

When  Don  Cherry  sings  out  "Fore!" 
sport  and  music  fans  alike  sit  up  and  take 
notice.  The  handsome  Texan  is  regarded 
as  one  of  the  top  amateur  golfers  in  show 
business  and,  as  a  crooner,  his  records 
can  be  counted  on  for  big  sales  and  radio 
performances.  ...  It  was  while  singing 
at  a  golfers'  clubhouse  that  he  was  spotted 
by  Jan  Garber,  and  signed  as  a  featured 
vocalist.  When  Don  left  the  band  in  Dal- 
las, it  was  to  do  his  own  radio  show  five 
days  a  week  on  WFAA.  Then  came  supper- 
club  jobs,  and  a  record  contract.  .  .  .  Don 
first  became  interested  in  singing  while 
serving  in  the  Army  during  World  War  II. 
This  year,  his  recording  of  "Band  of  Gold" 
topped  the  million  mark.  ...  In  spite  of 
his  booming  musical  career,  Don  has  al- 
ways found  time  for  regular  play  on  the 
golf  links.  He  won  the  Canadian  Amateur 
Crown  in  1952,  has  been  a  member  of  the 
Walker  Cup  team  for  three  years,  and 
played  in  Bing  Crosby's  pro-amateur  golf 
tournament.  .  .  .  His  birthday  is  January 
11,  and  he  stands  5' 10"  tall,  weighs  155 
pounds,  has  blond  hair  and  hazel  eyes. 
Earlier  this  year,  while  he  was  appearing 
at  a  hotel  in  Las  Vegas,  he  met  a  fellow 
performer — pretty,  red-haired  Sharon  Kay 
Ritchie,  the  reigning  Miss  America.  In 
July  she  consented  to  change  that  title  to 
Mrs.  Don  Cherry  and,  after  their  fall  wed- 
ding, Don  and  Sharon  Kay  are  looking 
forward  to  establishing  a  dynasty  of  fu- 
ture golfers,  singers,  and  beauty  queens. 

Trouper  Since  Two 

'  Would  you  please  tell  me  something 
about  Elinor  Donahue,  who  plays  Betty  on 
Father  Knows  Best? 

T.F.M.,  Toledo,  Ohio 

1a 


Pretty,  dark-haired  Elinor  Donahue  has 
been  hard  at  work  for  over  16  years — and 
since  she's  not  yet  20,  that's  quite  a  rec- 
ord. .  .  .  Mary  Elinor  ("I  dropped  the 
Mary  in  order  to  have  13  letters  in  my 
name,  since  13  is  my  lucky  number")  was 
born  April  19,  1937,  in  Tacoma,  Wash- 
ington. Her  mother  was  a  theatrical  cos- 
tumer,  her  sister  an  established  night-club 
entertainer.  When  Elinor  was  two,  she  sang 
on  a  local  radio  show.  She  was  a  seasoned 
vaudeville  trouper  by  five,  and,  shortly 
after  that,  she  put  in  her  appearance  in 
Hollywood.  .  .  .  An  ardent  outdoor  girl, 
she  enjoys  swimming,  bicycling,  horseback 
riding,  and  ice  skating.  If  she  were  not  an 
actress,  she  thinks  she'd  be  a  dancer,  and 
has  even  performed  as  a  dancer  at  state 
fairs  and  police  benefits.  Elinor's  now 
busy  with  courses  at  Los  Angeles  City  Col- 
lege. Of  her  successful  career  in  show 
business,  she  says,  "None  of  it  came  by 
trying.  I  just  liked  to  sing  and  dance  and 
happened  to  be  around  people  who  did 
something  about  it." 

Success  Country-Style 

Would  you  please  give  me  some  in- 
formation  about  Carl  Smith,  who  is  one 
of  the  stars  of  the  Grand  Ole  Opry  on 
both  TV  and  radio?       H.D.,  Tulsa,  Okla. 

Carl  Smith  has  gained  his  fame  over 
700  miles  from  Broadway,  but  he's  known 
in  show  business  as  a  mighty  big  star, 
nevertheless.  Shy,  easygoing  Carl  is  a  Ten- 
nessee-bred lad  who  "farmed  till  I  got  to 
singin'."  .  .  .  Born  on  March  15,  1927, 
he  grew  up  on  a  farm,  went  to  school  in 
Maynardville.  He  earned  the  money  for 
guitar  lessons  by  mowing  lawns.  At  the  age 
of  13,  he  took  part  in  his  first  amateur  tal- 
ent show.  From  then  on,  he  knew  for  sure 
he  wanted  to  be  a  country  singer.  ...  As 
a  featured  singer  on  Knoxville's  Molly  O' 
Day  Show,  he  cut  his  first  record,  "Guilty 
Conscience"  and  "Washing  My  Dreams 
in  Tears."  It  made  him  a  star  almost  over- 


night, and  won  him  his  place  on  Grand 
Ole  Opry.  .  .  .  Slender  and  youthful,  Carl 
is  six-foot-two,  has  wavy,  dark  hair,  blue 
eyes,  and  an  infectious  smile.  Though  he's 
made  personal  appearances  all  over  the 
country  and  in  Canada,  his  home  is  still 
in  Nashville,  with  his  wife,  June  Carter 
(also  a  star) ,  and  their  baby  daughter. 

Star  Of  All  Trades 

Would  you  please  give  me  some  in- 
formation about  Rod  Cameron,  who  plays 
Lieut.  Bart  Grant  on  the  TV  show,  City 
Detective?  B.M.,  Glenn,  Calif. 

Rod  Cameron  is  one  of  TV's  biggest 
stars  in  more  ways  than  one;  he  weighs  in 
at  200  pounds  and  stands  a  tall  six  feet 
and  five  inches.  ...  If  Rod  has  seemed  at 
home  in  his  many  Western  movie  roles,  he 
has  been  riding  horses  since  he  was  four, 
and  he's  one  of  the  best  skeet  shots  in  the 
modern  West.  .  .  .  Rod's  a  native  of  Cal- 
gary, Alberta,  in  Canada,  and  can  claim 
34  different  occupations  before  turning  to 
acting.  He  has,  among  other  jobs,  worked 
as  a  coral  diver,  surveyor,  cashier  in  a 
casino,  pro  athlete,  sandhog.  .  .  .  It's  Rod's 
35th  career  that  has  proved  a  whopping 
success,  however.  His  motion-picture  credit 
list  includes  "Northwest  Mounted  Police," 
"Wake  Island,"  "Crossfire,"  and,  recently, 
"Southwest  Passage."  He  is  frequently 
seen  on  various  TV  drama  shows,  but  is 
best  known  as  City  Detective  Bart  Grant. 


FOR  YOUR  INFORMATION— If  there's 
something  you  want  to  know  about  radio 
and  television,  write  to  Information  Booth, 
TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East  42nd  St.,  New 
York  17,  N.  Y.  We'll  answer,  if  we  can, 
provided  your  question  is  of  general  inter- 
est. Answers  will  appear  in  this  column — 
but  be  sure  to  attach  this  box  to  your 
letter,  and  specify  whether  your  question 
concerns  radio  or  TV. 


Ho  Other  Leading  Toothpaste 


CLEANS 


YOUR 
BREATH 


WHILE 
IT 


CLEANS  CLEANS 

HMDS  guards  GUARDS 

Like  Colgate  Dental  Cream ! 


YOUR 
TEETH 


Because  No  Other  Leading  Toothpaste 

Contains  GARDOL 

TO  GIVE  YOU  LONG-LASTING  PROTECTION 

AGAINST  BOTH  BAD  BREATH  AND  TOOTH  DECAY 

With  Just  One  Brushing! 


*  ■  ■ 


gAr1>ol 


IA 


Unlike  other  leading  tooth- 
pastes, Colgate's  forms  an  in- 
visible, protective  shield  around 
your  teeth  that  fights  decay  all 
day  . .  .  with  just  one  brushing! 
Ask  your  dentist  how  often  to 
brush  your  teeth.  But  remember ! 
One  Colgate  brushing  fights  de- 
cay-causing bacteria  12  hours 
—or  more! 


JSfe,*%.; 


Colgate's  with  Gardol  helps 
stop  bad  breath  all  day  for  most 
people  with  just  one  brushing! 
Instantly  sweeps  away  bacteria 
that  cause  bad  breath  originating 
in  the  mouth !  No  other  leading 
toothpaste*  cleans  your  breath 
while  it  guards  your  teeth  like 
Colgate  Dental  Cream  with 
Gardol! 


SAFE 


for  Children  of  All  Ages! 
to  Use  in  All  Water  Areas! 


MAKES  TEETH  WHITER  — CANNOT  STAIN  OR  DISCOLOR!    ,:.J 


%>. 


'J 


*T"HE   TOP   THREE  BRANDS    AFTER   COLGATE'S. 


SSS^ss? 


GARDOL    IS    COLGATE'S    TRAOE-HARK 
FOR    SODIUM    N-LAUROYL    SARCOSINATE 


Cleans  Your  Breath  T  Guards  Your  Teeth 


13 


Ralph  Carroll  of  WNBF  knows 

the  highroads  of  adventure,  talks  the 

language  of  the  man  in  the  street 


People  are  Ralph  Carroll's  hobby.    He  collects 
curious  items,  "smiles  in  the  news," 
and  a  year's  supply  of  film  footage  as  he 
and  Mrs.  Carroll  travel  to  "meet  the  people." 


14 


Ralph  Carroll  has  a  formula.  Briefly,  it's  "meet  the 
people."  Says  Binghamton,  New  York's  WNBF-TV 
and  Radio  star,  "You've  got  to  know  what  they  think, 
what  they  like,  what  they  laugh  at  and  what  they  want 
on  a  program.  You  can't  get  it  any  other  way."  Ralph 
practices  what  he  preaches,  but  when  he  goes  out  to  meet 
the  man  on  the  street,  it's  likely  to  be  a  thoroughfare 
that  goes  'round  the  world.  .  .  .  Ralph's  interest  in  people 
and  travel  started  when  he  was  a  boy  in  South  Africa 
and  heard  a  lecture,  with  slides  and  a  stereopticon,  on 
"Through  Darkest  Fiji  and  a  Visit  With  Headhunters." 
"Right  then,"  says  Ralph,  "I  made  up  my  mind  that  travel 
and  pictures  would  one  day  be  my  way  of  life."  .  .  . 
Radio  entered  his  life  in  1926  when  a  traveling  radio 
station,  passing  through  Binghamton,  invited  Ralph  to 
announce.  Ralph,  who  had  made  his  way,  via  India  and 
England,  to  his  father's  native  United  States,  liked  the 
work.  When  a  permanent  radio  station  was  established, 
he  joined  them,  first  as  a  writer  and  then  as  a  performer 
and  personality.  "On  the  late  night  shows,  along  with 
pipe  organ  accompaniment,  I  would  read  poetry  and 
philosophize,"  says  Ralph.  "People  liked  it.  After  all  these 
years,  I  still  do  the  same  show,  but  with  less  music  and 


less  poetry  and  more  homely  chatter  and  comment  on 
daily  events."  .  .  .  Currently  he's  heard  on  WNBF  Radio, 
weekdays  at  11:30  A.M.,  and  seen  on  TV  with  the  Ralph 
Carroll  Show,  weekdays  at  9  A.M.,  and  Carroll  Caravan, 
weekdays  at  6  P.M.  On  mike  or  on  camera,  Ralph  is 
host  to  a  parade  of  famous  guests  such  as  Margaret  Tru- 
man, "the  most  gracious,"  and  Norman  Brokenshire,  "the 
most  colorful."  Less  famous,  but  equally  fascinating,  was 
the  man  who  was  about  to  "milk  a  rattlesnake"  when 
the  reptile  got  loose  in  the  studio.  A  lady  fireater  almost 
set  the  same  studio  on  fire  and  another  lady  guest,  a 
librarian,  brought  along  a  jar  containing  the  brain  of  a 
famous  old-time  murderer.  And  then  there  was  the 
thirsty  man  who  drank  the  glass  of  water  that  had  been 
scheduled  to  be  spilled  during  an  upholstery  commercial. 
.  .  .  On  his  television  shows,  Ralph  features  travel  films 
taken  by  him  and  his  wife  during  their  footloose  vaca- 
tions. This  year,  the  Carroll  camera  will  revisit  Banff 
and  Lake  Louise  in  the  Canadian  Rockies  and  then  re- 
turn to  Binghamton  via  Arizona's  Monument  Valley. 
Ralph's  wife  shuns  the  spotlight,  but  handles  the  business 
details,  arranges  for  Ralph's  appearances  at  churches 
and  clubs  and  fills  the  role  of  ideal  traveling  companion. 


New!  BOBBI- 
with  "Casual  Curlets" 
and  breeze -fresh  lotion 
gives  you  a  longer  lasting, 
softly  feminine  wave 

A  stronger  wave  than  ordinary  pin -curl  permanents 
a  softer  wave  than  rod-type  permanents 

Specially  created  for  casual  hair  styles 


Everything  you  need  for  the  prettiest,  longest-lasting 
casual  hairdo  ever!  Fabulous  new  easy-set  "Casual 
Curlets".  .  .  of  pretty  pink  plastic  .  .  .  simpler  than 
metal  pins!  New  breeze-fresh,  petal-pink  lotion,  so 
pleasant  to  use!  No  separate  neutralizer,  no  reset- 
ting. OnlyBOBBi  makes  a  pin-curl  permanent  so  easy ! 


See  how  casual  a  bobbi  wave  can  be!  You  know  it 
will  outlast  any  other  pin-curl  permanent  because  each 
curl  is  set  stronger  from  the  very  beginning  with  bobbi's 
new  "Casual  Curlets."  Use  Curlets  between  perma- 
nents, too  — for  a  longer-lasting  set  after  your  shampoo. 


Pin-curls  made  with  BOBBl's 
new  "Casual  Curlets" .  .  . 

smooth,  firm,  no  loose  ends,  no 
crimp  marks  as  with  metal  pins. 
Specially  designed  for  a  stronger, 
longer-lasting  casual  wave ! 

New  "Casual  Curlets"  are  7 
ways  better ! 

1.  Easier,  faster  than  metal  pins. 

2.  So  pretty— shell-pink  plastic— 
you  won't  want  to  hide  'em ! 

3.  Can't  rust  or  discolor  hair. 

4.  One  Curlet  holds  tight  for  bet- 
ter, stronger  waves— you  never 
need  two  for  a  curl ! 

5.  Can't  slip. 

6.  No  unsightly  crimp  marks. 

7.  Curlets  are  curved  — shaped  to 
your  head  for  comfort. 


All-new  BOBBI  in  a  bright  blue  box 
Each  package  complete  with  55  "Casual 
Curlets"  and  6  neckline  curlers. 


15 


L 


■  n 


■"lev 
-the 

rning 


Pat  is  casual,  original.  Daughter 
Stacey  may  be  a  "handful,"  "Susie- 
belle"  an  armful,  but  Pat  and  his 
wife  Phyllis  have  good  reasons  for 
smiling — even  by  dawn's  early  light! 


Amiable  Pat  Hurley  practices 

the  easy-does-it  method 
on  his  WINS  morning  program 


16 


A  connoisseur  of  the  casual,  Pat  Hurley  admits  that 
everyone's  first  impulse  is  to  compare  him  to  Steve 
Allen.  As  to  stature  and  spectacles,  they  are  look- 
alikes,  and  Pat  does  a  "double"  act  with  Steve  in  a 
razor  commercial.  As  to  style,  both  belong  to  the  relaxed 
school  of  broadcasting.  Before  he  joined  New  York's 
WINS,  Pat  hosted  San  Francisco  By  Night,  a  kissing- 
cousin  telecast  to  Steve's  Tonight.  .  .  .  But  there  are 
differences.  Pat  Hurley,  far  from  being  anyone's  carbon 
copy,  is  an  original  practitioner  of  the  easy-does-it 
method.  Having  given  up  the  West  Coast  for  the  East 
Coast,  he's  given  up  the  nighttime  for  a  "new  sound" 
in  the  morning  time.  .  .  .  Placing  a  taboo  on  frenetic 
gags,  gimmicks  and  glamour,  Pat  presides  amiably  over 
Hurley  In  The  Morning,  Monday  through  Saturday  from 
6  to  9: 30  on  WINS.  He  spins  standards  and  "music  with 
a  beat,"  interspersed  with  running  reports  on  news  and 
weather.  "Primarily,"  Pat  explains,  "this  is  a  music, 
time,  temperature  and  traffic  show.  Whatever  humor 
results  is  a  bonus."  Listeners  report  that  they  collect 
these  "bonuses"  with  regularity.  .  .  .  Born  in  Chicago, 
this  six-foot-four,  200-pounder  started  out  to  be  a  man 
of  medicine.  But,  after  two  years  in  the  Army,  Pat 
decided  "it  was  time  to  go  to  work."  He  returned  to  the 
University  of  Wisconsin  to  finish  his  last  year  of  college 


and  also  join  the  CBS  station  in  Madison  as  a  staff  singer 
and  then  announcer.  He  and  his  wife  Phyllis,  a  radio 
major,  even  did  a  husband-and-wife  breakfast  show, 
her  first  and  last  airwaves  stint.  Next  came  Chicago, 
San  Francisco  and,  this  May,  New  York.  .  .  .  The 
Hurleys  live  in  a  three-bedroom,  colonial  house  in 
New  Rochelle,  "almost  an  exact  duplicate  of  our  West 
Coast  house,  except  that  it's  several  thousand  dollars 
more  and  one  bedroom  less."  Daughter  Stacey  will  be 
four  this  December,  which  is  also  the  birthday  month 
for  Pat  and  Phyllis,  who  were  born  the  same  day,  same 
year.  The  fourth  Hurley  is  a  Bedlington  terrier  who  is 
listed  on  a  long  pedigree  as  Puka  de  Winter  III.  But, 
when  Stacey  saw  the  dog,  a  gift  from  a  California 
listener,  she  exclaimed  "Susiebelle,"  and  that's  been  it 
ever  since.  .  .  .  Pat's  alarm  rings  at  4:30  A.M.  He's 
generally  home  by  three,  in  time  for  a  romp  with  Stacey 
or  a  family  trip  to  the  beach.  Phyllis  has  found  her 
career  at  home.  "She'll  be  a  great  P.T.A.'er,"  Pat  pre- 
dicts. Pat  himself  likes  golf  and  hunting,  dislikes  fishing, 
gardening  and  do-it-yourself.  "I'm  as  unhandy  as  any- 
one," he  says,  "and  I  can  botch  a  job  better  than  most." 
The  Hurleys  have  an  early  dinner  and  retire  at  8:30, 
when  Stacey  announces,  "Daddy,  it's  time  for  us  to  go 
to  bed."  New  York's  newest  star  rises — and  shines — early. 


I  dreamed  I  went  whistle-stopping 

matdenform  ora 


mm 


y 


I'm  a  sure  winner  because  I'm  on  the  right  track !  My  platform:  a  vote  for  me  is  a  vote  for  Maidenform. 
No  wonder  I'm  the  people's  choice  for  the  figure  of  the  year !  The  dream  of  a  bra :  new  Maidenform 
Pre-Lude* — the  bra  with  the  contour-band  that  gives  you  an  entirely  new  kind  of  under-and-up 

up-lift  to  make  the  most  of  every  curve  you  own.  In  white  embroidered  broadcloth.  A,  B  and  C  cups,  2.00.  Prices 

slightly  higher  in  Canada.    »reg.  u.s.  pat.  off.  sm*ioen  form  brassiere  co.,  inc.,  h.  y.  is 


17 


NEW  DESIGNS  FOR  LIVING 


623 — Pick  this  pretty  "flower"  for  your 
serving  apron.  Fashion  it  of  remnants  in 
shades  of  vivid  color.  Embroidery  trans- 
fers, directions  for  making  "flower"  apron, 
17  inches  long.  250 

818— "Now  I  Lay  Me  Down  to  Sleep"  is 
the  inspiring  theme  of  this  beautiful  em- 
broidered quilt.  Baby  Quilt,  35^x4314 
inches.  Diagrams,  embroidery  transfers  in- 
cluded. 250 


7380 — Beginner-simple,  make  this  doily 
for  your  home  or  as  a  gift.  All  in  pineapple 
pattern — your  favorite  crochet!  Easy-cro- 
chet directions  for  doily  18  inches  in  mer- 
cerized crochet  and  knitting  cotton;  smal- 
ler to  match.   250 


7363 — Beautify  your  TV  set  with  this  new 
cover — easy-crochet  in  any  size.  Pineapples 
and  mesh  form  the  pretty  pattern.  Crochet 
TV  square  24-inches  in  No.  30  mercerized 
cotton;  smaller  in  No.  50;  larger  in  bed- 
spread cotton.  250 


7280 — Brighten  kitchen  towels  with  color- 
ful "bird"  motifs.  Set  of  seven  different 
designs  for  each  day  of  the  week.  Transfers, 
instructions  included  for   gay  embroidery. 

25«i 


584 — Protect  and  beautify  your  fine  furni- 
ture. Feathers  in  a  fan  shape  add  interest 
to  chair  or  buffet.  Use  No.  30  crochet  cot- 
ton.   Directions  included.    250 

7208 — Cuddly  elephant  decorates  a  bed  by 
day,  is  a  handy  pajama  bag  for  youngster's 
night  togs!  Pattern  parts,  transfers  of  em- 
broidery and  directions  included.    250 


18 


Send  twenty-five  cents  (in  coins)  for  each  pattern  to:  TV  Radio  Mirror,  Needlecraft  Service,  P.  O.  Box  137,  Old  Chelsea  Station, 
New  York  11,  New  York.  Add  five  cents  for  each  pattern  for  first-class  mailing.  Send  an  additional  250  for  Needlecraft  Catalog. 


Which  is  your  hair  problem  ? 


Hair  dull... no  shine? 

Even  the  dullest  hair  really  sparkles 
with  new  suave!  Try  it.  See  your  hair 
glitter  with  twinkling  highlights.  And 
oh  how  silky,  how  soft  and  lovely! 
suave  gives  hair  that  "healthy-looking 
glow,"  not  oily  shine  .  .  .  because  it's 
greaseless. 


Hair  too  dry? 

The  instant  you  apply  suave  Hair- 
dressing  with  its  amazing  greaseless 
lanolin,  dryness  is  gone!  suave  puts 
life  back  into  your  hair.  Makes  it  silky 
soft;  bursting  with  highlights,  eager  to 

wave and  so  manageable,  so  exciting 

to  feel! 

Hair  abused... brittle? 

After  home  permanents  or  too  much 
sun,  your  hair  will  drink  up  suave. 
Apply  liberally  every  day — and  see 
satin-softness,  life  and  sparkle  return. 
You'll  be  amazed  how  pretty,  how 
caressable  your  hair  can  look! 


Unruly  after  shampoo? 

Never  shampoo  your  hair  without 
putting  back  the  beauty-oils  that  sham- 
pooing takes  out.  Use  suave  every  time 
to  restore  beauty  instantly!  Makes 
hair  silky  .  .  .  manageable,  eager  to 
wave.  Keeps  hair  in  place  without 
oily  film. 


Teen  Tangles? 

Your  hair  does  so  much  for  your  popu- 
larity! Don't  be  a  "tangle  mop."  A 
kiss  of  suave  daily  makes  your  hair 
behave  without  a  struggle.  Keeps  it 
perfect!  Gives  hair  that  sparkly 
sophisticated  look.  You'll  love  what  it 
does  for  your  hair. 


HELENE  CURTIS 


uave 


HAIRDRESSING  &  conditioner 

Contains  amazing  greaseless  lanolin 


Choose 

Liquid  or 

new  Creme 

59<t 

and  $1 

(plus  tax) 


,^uave 


^Trademark* 


19 


Plots  have  changed  little  and  the  triangle  is  eternal. 
"Bride"  Gloria  Swanson  was  usually  "the  other  woman." 


Screens  were  less  wide,  the  world  was  more 
innocent,  in  the  days  when  the  movies  were 
a  speechless  infant  nurtured  in  the  old  Biograph 
and  Edison  studios.  Now,  on  television — a  device 
even  more  far-fetched  than  talkies  to  D.  W. 
Griffith  and  Mack  Sennett— flickers   of   1893- 
1915  vintage  are  again  on  display.  Produced 
by  Sterling  Television  Company,  narrated  by 
"curator"  Paul  Killiam,  Movie  Museum  offers 
classic  views  of  Mary  Pickford's  curls  and 
Barrymore's  profile,  Mabel  Normand's  farce  and 
Rudolph  Valentino's  fire.  Resurrected — and 
re-wrapped  in  the  brash  and  colorful  style  of  the 
nickelodeon — these  cinematic  milestones  prove 
that  the  good  old  days  really  were. 


tip 

■0-     %,  W/ 

- 

WW 

mm  ■     '           '"■■■■■'-'   '  # 

L 

fS%  *4 

■ptf  ' 

'/',  „  .#„//,*//4!*4"-  -.  r  --■■  ■■"■■■'-■'■■'■  ■  '■ 

1111 

H 

I        ■''■''"'    '''■', 

* 

* 
« 

i 

Cheesecake  was  fresh  when  Chester  Conklin 
romped  with  the  Sennett  Bathing  Beauties. 
Below,  pie-in-the-face  a  la  Mabel   Normand. 


Keystone  Cops  stole  laughs.  Fatty  Arbuckle  at  far  right,  Ford  Sterling  on  phone. 


20 


lAfcfi  0£  ofikt  tfuofes  #WW«w  k  ik  Mm"  WIMS  YOUR  VOTE  ? 


-   !"" 


1.  MRS.  DALE  CARNEGIE, 
author  of  "Don't  Grow  Old  — 
Grow  Up":  "Every  woman  who 
is  figure-conscious  will  love 
the  way  the  new  Playtex  Girdle 
fiatters  her  figure  — as  I  do. 
A  Playtex  Girdle  has  the  same 
amazing  'hold-in'  power  six 
months  later  as  on  the  day  you 
bought  it." 


2.  HANNAH  TROY,  leading 
American  fashion  designer-. 
"Playtex  is  the  only  girdle  I 
know  that's  completely  invis- 
ible under  the  most  revealing 
clothes  — holds  in  superbly 
without  that  'corseted'  look  — 
another  big  reason  why  more 
women  wear  Playtex  than  any 
other  girdle  in  the  world  I" 


3.  CAROLYN  HUGHES,  beau- 
tiful  fashion  model  and  cover 
girl:  "To  me,  the  most  exciting 
exclusive  of  the  Playtex  Living 
Bra  is  the  elastic  criss-cross 
front.  I  love  the  way  it  dips 
down  deep,  gives  such  stun- 
ning separation  and  uplift.  No 
other  bra  gives  such  lovely 
natural  lines." 


4.  KATHRYN  MURRAY,  star 
of  TV's  Arthur  Murray  Party: 
"Dancers  need  figure  control, 
too,  but  must  have  complete 
freedom  of  motion.  That's  why 
Playtex  Girdles  are  perfect  — 
wonderful  'hold-in'  power  with- 
out a  seam  or  bone,  so  flexible 
even  a  grandmother  like  me 
can  bend  in  comfort." 


5.  FRAN  WARREN,  popular 
RKO-Unique  recording  star: 
"The  Playtex  Living  Bra  is  the 
only  bra  with  an  all-elastic 
frame  that  never  shifts,  rides 
or  slides  no  matter  how  active 
you  are.  The  low-anchored 
elastic  back  always  stays  put 
—won't  annoy  you  by  creeping 
up  ever.'" 


6.  MOLLIE  PARNIS,  brilliant 
fashion  designer:  "The  Living 
Bra  is  the  prettiest  you  can 
buy— and  gives  the  prettiest 
curves.  Both  the  nylon-and- 
marquisette  cups  lined  in  cot- 
ton, and  the  all-cotton  cups  lift 
and  lure,  round  and  raise  into 
that  high  but  natural  look 
women  love/" 


7.  JUNE  EARING,  champion 
swimmer  and  Aquashow  star: 
"No  other  girdle  with  such 
wonderful  'hold-in'  power  is  as 
flexible,  supple,  and  comfort- 
able as  Playtex  — because  only 
Playtex  is  made  of  Fabricon. 
It's  the  only  girdle  you  can  ski 
in,  swim  in— and  look  glamor- 
ous in  when  dancing." 


BETTY  KEAN,  of  the  (riot- 
ous)  Kean  Sisters  comedy 
team:  "Playtex  Lightweight 
has  more  'hold-in'  power  with 
less  weight  than  any  other 
girdle  I've  ever  worn— and  it 
costs  only  $4.95.  Actually 
gives  more  support  and  more 
comfort  than  girdles  that  cost 
me  three  times  as  much." 


9.  JUSTINE  PARKER,  lovely 
star  of  many  TV  dramas:  "The 
Playtex  Living  Bra  in  Long 
Line  is  for  me-all  the  won- 
derful all-elastic  exclusive 
features  plus  an  elastic 
'magic-midriff  that  smooths 
inches  away  sleekly  and  surely 
for  the  long,  lean  look  of  to- 
day's fashions." 


10.  GRACE  DOWNS,  Dean  of 
Grace  Downs  Air  Career  School : 
"No  other  bra  in  the  world  has 
bias-cut  elastic  side  panels 
that  self-adjust  to  your  every 
motion,  hold  you  firmly  without 
cutting.  You  get  heavenly  com- 
fort day  into  night  with  the 
Playtex  Living  Bra.  Once  you 
wear  it-no  other  bra  will  do." 


Nothing  to  Buy/  Enter  This  Exciting  PLAYTEX  Contest  Now/  You  May  Win 


•  !•  •  • 


00  CASH 


Just  Tell  Us  Which  One  of  the  Above  Statements  Interests  You  Most/ 


THESE  PLAYTEX  FACTS  WILL  HELP  YOU  WIN! 


PIAYTEX 

UVING  BRA 

S3.9S 

D-CUP  $4.9S 


♦Exclusive  elastic  bias-  ^Exclusive  criss-cross     ^Sculptured  cups 

cut  panels  and  all-elastic  elastic  front  dips        give  high,  rounded 

back  . . .  doesn't  low,  holds  the          uplift ...  a  perfect 

shift,  slide  or  ride.  separation.          "sweater"  silhouette 


PtAYTEX 

MAGIC- 

CONTROLIER* 

$7.95 


PLAYTEX 

LIGHTWEIGHT 

S4.9S 


MADE  OF  FABRICON,  a  wonderful  new  girdle  material  of 
downy  soft  cotton  and  latex  that  gives  more  "hold-in"  power 
with  greater  comfort.  Air  conditioned  with  tiny  air  dots— 
and  Magic-Controller  also  has  a  non-roll  top  that  stays  up  with- 
out a  stay. 


1,016  PRIZES  WORTH  $40,000/ 
1st  PRIZE:  $10,000  CASH 

2nd -3rd -4th: 
MINK  COATS  worth  $5,000  each 

5th  thru  16th: 
MINK  STOLES  worth  $1,000  each 

plus  1,000  Playtex  Living  Bras  worth  $3.95  each 

(Valuta  slated  include  1QX  federal  excise  sax.} 

Just  read  what  these  "Women  in  the 
News"  say  about  the  features  of  Playtex® 
Girdles  and  Bras.  Vote  for  one  state- 
ment that  interests  you  most  about 
either  the  Playtex  Girdle  or  Playtex 
Bra.  Simply  complete  the  following 
phrase  in  25  words  or  less— "I  vote  for 

Statement  No.  — because  

"  Enter  as  often  as  you  wish. 

Additional  free  Official  Entry  Blanks 
available  at  your  favorite  store.  What 
you  write  can  earn  you  $10,000. 


OFFICIAL  RULES 

1.  Simply  fill  out  an  Official  Entry  Blank,  or 
write  on  one  side  of  a  plain  piece  of  paper. 
Send  as  many  entries  as  you  wish,  to  Playtex, 
P.  0.  Box  480,  New  York  46,  New  York. 

2.  Entries  must  be  postmarked  no  later  than 
Oct.  27,  1956,  and  must  be  received  by  Nov. 
5,  1956. 

3.  Any  woman  in  the  United  States  or  its  ter- 
ritories is  eligible  to  enter,  except  officers  and 
employees  (and  members  of  their  families)  of 
the  corporation,  any  of  its  divisions,  or  its 
advertising  agencies.  This  contest  is  subject 
to  all  federal,  state,  and  local  laws  and  regu- 
lations. 

4.  All  entries  become  the  property  of  Inter- 
national Latex  Corp.,  Playtex  Park,  Dover, 
Del.,  the  sponsors  of  this  contest;  none  will  be 
returned.  All  entries  must  be  original  work 
of  contestants  submitted  in  own  names.  The 
contest  will  be  judged  by  an  independent 
judging  organization  on  the  basis  of  sincerity, 
originality  of  thought,  and  appropriateness  to 
the  product.  Decisions  of  the  judges  will  be 
final.  In  the  event  of  ties,  duplicate  prizes  will 
be  awarded. 

5.  Winners  notified  personally  or  by  mail. 
List  of  winners  available  by  requesting  same 
and  enclosing  a  stamped,  self-addressed  enve- 
lope with  your  entry. 


?                                  Additional  free  Official  Entry  Blanks  available  at  your  favorite  store. 
1     To:  PLAYTEX,  P.  O.  BOX  480,  NEW  YORK  46,  N.  Y. 

*       "1  vote  far  rtntfimenf  #_ .                ,    rM»rnii«A 

|                                                                                                     (complete  in  25  words  or  less) 

1       Klnmp 

I       Arlrlrou 

'       fity                                                                                7nne                                  Stnto 

■                 Remember:  You  may  get  a  Playtex  Living®  Bra\  as  a  prize.  Your  bra  size 

% 

©  1956  by  International  Latex  Corporation  . .  PLAYTEX  PARK  . .  Dover  Del  tu.  s.  pat.  Foreign  pats,  pending-.  »u.  s.,  foreign  pat.  and  pats,  pending. 


21 


ON    THE    RECORD 


FOR  A  record  to  set  a  record,  the  zeros 
must  really  multiply.  With  a  justi- 
fiably expanded  chest,  Columbia  reports 
that  its  original-cast  album  of  "My 
Fair  Lady,"  the  Broadway  smash,  has  sold 
more  than  400,000  to  date.  At  this  rate, 
"Lady"  will  soon  be  pushing  toward 
"South  Pacific's"  total,  which  is  still  sell- 
ing strong  and  adding  to  its  1,300,000  al- 
bum sales.  If  you've  seen  Rex  Harrison, 
Julie  Andrews,  Stanley  Holloway  and 
Robert  Coote  cavorting  in  this  musical 
version  of  Shaw's  "Pygmalion,"  your 
first  impulse  was  probably  in  the  direc- 
tion of  a  record  shop.  If  you're  one  of 
those  to  whom  "My  Fair  Lady"  looks  like 
a  1958  date,  it's  worth  waiting  for.  Mean- 
while, your  best  bet  is  to  bide  your  time 
with  this  wonderful  recorded  version. 

The  current  date  is  September  time, 
which  means  back  to  school,  back  to  work, 
or  at  least  back  from  vacation.  Whatever 
you're  up  to,  there  are  some  early  fall 
record  releases  which  make  for  good 
listening.  An  ear-pleasing  album  for 
any  time  of  the  year  is  "Tone  Poems  of 


By  JOAN  WALLACE 


Color,"  with  Frank  Sinatra  conducting  a 
forty-piece  orchestra.  Each  tone  poem, 
and  there  are  twelve  in  all,  was  written 
and  arranged  by  such  imposing  talent  as 
Nelson  Riddle,  Gordon  Jenkins,  Alec 
Wilder,  Victor  Young  and  Andre  Previn. 
The  colors — white,  purple,  gold,  black, 
yellow,  green,  and  so  on — have  been  beau- 
tifully transferred  to  wax.  Sinatra  actu- 
ally conducted  the  recording  sessions  just 
before  he  left  for  Europe,  adding  an- 
other accomplishment  to  his  list  of  talents. 
(Capitol) 

"The  Happy  Minstrels,"  by  Art  Mooney 
and  his  orchestra,  is  a  rollicking  set  of 
minstrel  songs,  all  done  in  the  musical 
setting  of  an  old-fashioned  minstrel  show. 
Mooney  is  the  interlocutor,  presenting 
some  twenty-five  songs,  including  every- 
thing from  "Old  Black  Joe"  to  "Waiting 
for  the  Robert  E.  Lee."  The  album  moves 
right  along,  and  should  move  all  right  in 
the  sales  department  for  Mooney,  too. 
(M-G-M) 

June  Christy  has  a  new  set,  appropriate- 
ly titled  "The  Misty  Miss  Christy."  June 


n   just 


22 


Oles  to  Julie  Andrews,  Rex  Harrison  and  Robert  Coote,  starring  on  Broadway 
and  on  Columbia  Records  in  "My  Fair  Lady."  Here,  they  extol  "Rain  in  Spain." 


sings  twelve  old  tunes  which  seem 
right  for  her  unusual  vocal  style — such 
things  as  "Day  Dream,"  "Dearly  Beloved," 
"The  Wind"  and  "For  All  We  Know." 
Pete  Rugolo  conducts.  (Capitol) 

A  most  timely  release  is  Columbia's 
"Politics,  U.S.A."  It's  an  album  of  spoken 
words — no  music — presenting  the  voices  of 
such  American  figures  as  President  Eisen- 
hower, former  President  Truman,  and  the 
late  Harold  Ickes,  Wendell  Willkie,  Frank- 
lin D.  Roosevelt,  Robert  Taft  and  others. 
You'll  hear  critical  speeches  made  during 
previous  political  campaigns  and  impor- 
tant speeches  on  past  historic  occasions. 
Will  Rogers,  Jr.  narrates  the  album,  pro- 
viding the  continuity  in  a  straight-forward 
manner.  This  is  a  most  interesting  docu- 
mentary compilation  of  living  history  on 
wax,  particularly  inasmuch  as  this  is  an 
election  year. 

Steve  Lawrence,  the  young  baritone  on 
the  Steve  Allen  shows,  has  been  steadily 
improving  right  along,  and  now  he  really 
hits  the  platter  bell  with  an  album  called 
"About  'That'  Girl."  Lawrence  does  eleven 
standard  songs,  all  romantic  ones,  such 
times  as  "Where  or  When,"  "This  Heart  of 
Mine,"  "The  More  I  See  You,"  "I  Could 
Make  You  Care,"  and  "Like  Someone  in 
Love."  And  he  sounds  just  great  on  all 
of  them.  Orchestral  accompaniment  is 
by  Dick  Jacobs.  (Coral) 

Steve  is  also  represented  in  another  al- 
bum, "The  Steve  Allen  Show,"  along  with 
his  musical  pals  from  the  program,  Eydie 
Gorme,  Skitch  Henderson  and  Pat  Kirby. 
The  gang  do  a  set  of  standards,  all  of  which 
they've  done  on  the  show  at  one  time  or 
another.  Steve  conducts  the  orchestra 
and  also  sings  a  couple  of  solos.    (Coral) 

Hi-fi  fans  have  been  begging  record 
companies  to  put  more  organ  music  on 
wax,  because  an  organ's  range  of  color 
and  tone  really  comes  across  on  a  good 
hi-fi  set.  So  the  tweeter  and  woofer  cult 
will  be  happy  to  know  of  two  new  al- 
bums— one,  on  Epic,  is  "Theater  Organ  in 
Hi-Fi,"  with  Leonard  MacClain  at  the 
console  of  the  big  pipe  organ  at  the  Towers 
Theater,  in  Darby,  Pennsylvania.  Colum- 
bia is  also  bringing  out  "Organ  Moods  in 
Hi-Fi,"  by  Buddy  Cole.  The  selections 
on  both  sets  are  standards,  especially 
chosen  for  organ  rendition. 

Fats  Domino  has  been  rolling  right 
along  in  popularity,  with  such  single  hits 
as  "Rose  Marie,"  "Ain't  It  a  Shame"  and 
"Poor  Me"  to  his  credit.  He  has  com- 
bined these  and  other  tunes  into  an  album, 
aptly  called  "Rock  and  Rollin'  With  Fats 
Domino,"  and  it  should  please  the  Domino 
fans  who  go  for  his  solid  style  of  rhythm- 
and-blues.   (Imperial) 

And  on  the  subject  of  rock  'n'  roll,  here 
comes  Bill  Haley  and  His  Comets  with  a 
cute  thing  called  "Teenager's  Mother  (Are 
You  Right?)."  Bill  and  the  boys  "musi- 
cally" discuss  "parents  versus  kids"  on 
the  rock  'n'  roll  question.  The  flip  side 
is  a  driving  rendition  of  "Rip  It  Up." 
(Decca) 

Julius  La  Rosa  has  cut  his  first  album 
for  Victor,  and  it  should  cut  through  for 
Julie.  They're  titling  it  just  "Julius  La 
Rosa,"  and  it  includes  such  wonderful  old 
romantic  tunes  as  "A  Fellow  Needs  a 
Girl,"  "No  Love,  No  Nothin',"  "I  Hadn't 
Anyone  Till  You,"  "Our  Love  Is  Here  To 
Stay,"  "How  About  You"  and  "Don't  You 
Know  I  Care?"  The  musical  backing  is 
excellent,  with  credit  going  to  Joe  Reis- 


Crooner  and  actor  Sinatra  now  turns 
his  talents  to  conducting  for  Capitol. 


man's  orchestra  and  the  Ray  Charles 
Singers. 

Also  on  the  Victor  label,  there's  a  fine 
album  of  inspirational  and  religious  songs 
done  by  that  popular  country-and-West- 
ern  artist,  Stuart  Hamblen.  Titled  "It  Is 
No  Secret,"  the  set  includes  "The  Lord 
Is  Counting  on  You,"  "These  Things  Shall 
Pass,"  "The  King  of  All  Kings,"  the  fav- 
orite, "I  Believe,"  and  Stuart's  own  "Open 
Up  Your  Heart." 

Lawrence  Welk  fans,  attention!  Here's 
another  album  by  the  popular  gentleman 
who  dispenses  "champagne  music."  It's 
called  "Lawrence  Welk  at  Madison  Square 
Garden,"  and  it  was  actually  recorded 
there  on  March  26,  1956.  Lawrence  and 
his  gang  did  a  special  convention  show  for 
his  sponsors,  the  Dodge  Dealers  of  Amer- 
ica, and,  needless  to  say,  the  response 
was  enthusiastic.  The  entire  Welk  crew 
of  soloists  are  represented  on  a  variety 
of  tunes:  "Mister  Wonderful,"  "Lover," 
"Toot  Toot  Tootsie,  Goodbye,"  "Dark- 
town  Strutters'  Ball,"  "South  Rampart 
Street  Parade,"  "The  Third  Man  Theme," 
and  others.    (Coral) 

Andy  Williams,  the  smooth-voiced  sing- 
er on  the  Steve  Allen  show,  has  been  hop- 
ing for  that  one  hit  record  to  boost  his 
crooning  stock.  He  may  just  have  it  with 
"Canadian  Sunset,"  a  lovely  tune  with  a 
romantic  lyric,  sung  excellently  by  Andy, 
with  a  lush  musical  background.  The 
Williams  voice  also  comes  across  on  the 
coupling,  another  lovely  tune,  "High  Up- 
on the  Mountain."   (Cadence) 

Columbia  Records  is  all  excited  about 
their  latest  recording  discovery,  a  twenty- 
year-old  lad  from  San  Francisco  named 
Johnny  Mathis.  The  company's  executives 
are  so  sure  he  is  going  to  be  a  big  star 
that  they  arranged  for  him  to  do  an  al- 
bum right  off  the  bat.  And  a  terrific  one 
it  is.  Johnny  sings  "Babalu,"  "Caravan," 
"Star  Eyes,"  "Cabin  in  the  Sky,"  among 
others,  with  Columbia's  top  arrangers  and 
conductors  handling  the  music.  This  boy 
has  a  most  flexible  voice  and  a  very  dis- 
tinctive style.  You'll  be  seeing  him  on  TV. 

If  you've  missed  some  single  records 
by  those  big  platter-sellers,  Don  Cornell, 
Teresa  Brewer  or  The  McGuire  Sisters, 
you  can  get  them  now  via  three  separate 
packages  that  Coral  is  releasing:  "Don," 
"Teresa,"  and  "Chris,  Dot  and  Phyllis." 
Coral  has  picked  up  all  their  recent  solo 
hits — and  has  added  a  few  new  singles 
by  each,  for  good  measure. 


Never  Again . . .  need  pimples 
ruin  romance! 


Only  an  active  teen-ager  knows  the 
heartache  and  misery  pimples  can  cause 
.  .  .  the  agonies  of  self-consciousness 
and  embarrassment  .  .  .  the  broken 
dates,  the  parties  missed,  which  mean 
so  much. 

What  wonderful  news,  then,  that 
there  is  now  a  really  effective,  scien- 
tific medication,  especially  for  pimples. 
CLEARASIL  has  been  proved  effective 
beyond  question  in  clinical  tests  by 
doctors,  in  nation-wide  usage  tests  by 
nurses  and  in  actual  daily  use  by 
millions.  Whether  you  have  just  oc- 
casional pimples  or  a  serious  condition 
take  action  against  them  the  modern 


Clearasil  way:  In  skin  specialists''  tests 
on  202  patients,  9  out  of  every  10  cases 
were  cleared  up  or  definitely  improved 
while  using  CLEARASIL. 

'Starves'  Pimples 

CLEARASIL's  famous  dry-up  action 
'starves'  pimples  by  helping  to  remove 
the  oils  that  pimples  "feed"  on. 
CLEARASIL's  antiseptic  action  stops 
growth  of  bacteria  that  can  cause  and 
spread  pimples.  And,  CLEARASIL's  kera- 
tolytic  action  softens  and  dissolves 
infected  skin  tissue,  lets  medication 
penetrate  to  lower  pimple  infection. 
Encourages  new,  smooth,  healthy 
skin  growth. 


SKIN-COLORED  . . .  hides  pimples  while  it  works 


CLEARASIL  ends  embarrass- 
ment immediately.  It  is 
greaseless,  stainless,  pleas- 
ant to  leave  on  day  and 
night  for  uninterrupted 
medication.  CLEARASIL  is 
guaranteed  to  work  for  you 
as  it  did  in  doctors'  tests 
or  money  back. 


America's  largest-selling  pimple  medication 
Only  69<,  economy  size  98<  ...  at  all  druggists 


Special  Offer:  Send  name,  address  and  150  in  coin  or  stamps  for  generous  trial 
size  to  Box  12  MP,  Eastco,  Inc.,  White  Plains,  N.  Y.   Offer  expires  Nov.  30,  1956. 


23 


WHAT'S    NEW   FROM 


(Continued  from  page  4) 


Nothing  finer  than    Dinah   Shore — 
daily  or  launching  the  Chevy  Show. 


With    Alistair    Cooke    still    at    the 
helm,  Omnibus  switches  to  ABC-TV. 


Headliner  Buddy  Hackett  is  a  news- 
stand proprietor  in  NBC's  Stanley. 


the  beloved  Julie,  "the  woman  who  devotes 
her  life  to  the  care  of  other  women's  chil- 
dren" at  Hilltop  House.  The  drama  is  new 
to  NBC  Radio  schedules  (3: 30  P.M.  EDT) , 
but  producer-director  Jack  Rubin  looks 
forward  to  "great  good  luck,"  broadcasting 
from  Studio  8-A  in  Radio  City.  Seems  he 
produced,  directed  and  acted  in  the  first 
program  ever  aired  from  8-A — a  perform- 
ance of  The  O'Neills,  just  after  the  RCA 
Building  was  opened  for  business,  back  in 
November,  1933. 

The  Tales  Of  The  11th  Bengal  Lancers 
starts  sometime  this  month,  on  Sunday 
nights,  replacing  It's  A  Great  Life.  This 
new  adventure  series,  on  film,  is  based  on 
the  exploits  of  famed  British  lancers 
during  the  1870's  along  the  India-Afghan- 
istan border.  Warren  Stevens  and  Phillip 
Carey  play  the  leads. 

Frontier  has  been  canceled  on  Sundays, 
and  in  its  place  we  find  a  new  filmed  show 
called  Circus  Boy,  with  a  twelve-year-old 
discovery,  Mickey  Braddock,  playing  the 
title  role.  Also  in  the  cast  is  Robert 
Lowery,  as  the  circus  owner,  Noah  Beery, 
Jr.  as  a  clown,  Guinn  "Big  Boy"  Williams, 
playing  a  roustabout,  and  an  elephant 
called  Bimbo,  playing  a  pachyderm.  The 
starting  date  is  September  23. 

The  long-awaited  Buddy  Hackett  show 
debuts  Monday  night,  September  24,  filling 
a  half-hour  of  Sid  Caesar's  old  time.  The 
new  situation-comedy  series,  Stanley, 
finds  the  rotund  Hackett  playing  a  pro- 
prietor of  a  newsstand  in  a  plush  New 
York  Hotel,  with  Max  Liebman  handling 
the  producer  chores.  Hackett  was  signed 
for  this  series  following  his  very  successful 
guesting  with  Perry  Como  last  season. 

The  other  half  of  the  Caesar  Monday- 
night  time  goes  to  The  Adventures  Of  Sir 
Lancelot,  a  new  filmed  show  starring 
William   Russell,   a   twenty-four-year-old 

J    English  actor.  This  one  also  begins  on  Sep- 

_    tember   24. 

The  spectaculars  are  back,  scheduled  on 
a  once-a-month  basis  on  Friday,  Saturday, 
Sunday  and  Monday  nights.  The  first  one 

24 


will  be  for  Producers'  Showcase,  Monday 
night,  September  17.  It's  an  hour-and-a- 
half  musical  show,  "The  Lord  Don't  Play 
Favorites,"  and  will  star  Kay  Starr  and 
Louis  Armstrong,  with  Buster  Keaton, 
the  silent-film  comedian,  and  Buddy  Baer 
featured. 

Saturday  night,  September  29,  is  the  date 
set  for  the  big  Esther  Williams'  Aquacade 
spectacular.  This  is  the  glamorous  water 
show,  starring  the  movies'  swim  queen, 
which  NBC  has  had  planned  since  last 
season. 

On  Friday  night,  October  5,  there  will 
be  another  big  musical  spec,  "A  Man's 
Game,"  with,  NBC  hopes,  Nanette  Fabray 
as  star.  This  one  is  all  about  a  girl  pitcher 
in  the  big  leagues,  and  its  comic  possibili- 
ties are  right  up  Nan's  alley — if  the  net- 
work is  successful  in  signing  the  talented 
comedienne  to  a  long-term  contract.  They 
also  have  her  penciled  in  to  star  in  another 
spec  of  "High  Button  Shoes"  in  November. 
This,  too,  depends  on  the  contract  negotia- 
tions now  going  on,  which  could  be  all 
set  by  the  time  this  is  in  print. 

On  the  forthcoming  spec  list  are  such 
as:  "Born  Yesterday"  (NBC  is  dreaming 
about  Kim  Novak  for  this  one)  on  October 
9;  "Man  and  Superman,"  starring  Maurice 
Evans;  a  musical  comedy,  "The  Soft 
Touch";  Somerset  Maugham's  "The  Let- 
ter"; and  "Manhattan  Towers,"  to  be  based 
on  the  tone  poem  by  Gordon  Jenkins.  All 
these  shows  will  be  seen  in  October  and 
November,  and  I'll  give  you  details  as  to 
cast  and  such  next  month. 

CBS: 

Hey  Jeannie  is  a  new  Saturday-night, 
filmed  half-hour  show,  which  starts  Sep- 
tember 8  and  replaces  Ifs  Always  Jan. 
The  "Jeannie"  is  Jeannie  Carson,  the 
British  song-and-dance  gal  whom  you  saw 
last  season  on  a  couple  of  spectaculars  on 
NBC.  In  this  new  situation-comedy  series, 
which  was  especially  written  for  her,  she 
plays  the  role  of  a  Scottish  girl  who  moves 
to  America  and  gets  herself  into  all  sorts 


of  humorous  happenings.  The  script  has 
also  been  shaped  to  allow  for  Jeannie's 
vocal  and  dancing  talent. 

Another  new  adventure  series  begins 
Saturday  night,  September  29.  This  one 
is  called  The  Buccaneer,  a  half-hour  show 
filmed  in  England.  It  has  to  do  with  the 
pirate  days  of  the  middle  nineteenth  cen- 
tury, and  has  a  swashbuckling  all -British 
cast  which  includes  Robert  Shaw,  Dan 
Tempest,  Peter  Hammond  and  Hugh 
David. 

Arthur  Godfrey  returns  to  his  morning 
shows,  radio  and  TV,  on  September  17, 
with  Peter  Lind  Hayes  taking  over  mean- 
time. The  same  night,  Mr.  G.  picks  up  the 
reins  on  Talent  Scouts,  which  Bob  Crosby 
has  been  emceeing  during  Arthur's  vaca- 
tion. September  26  is  the  return  date  for 
Godfrey's  Wednesday-night  television 
show,  with  Frankie  Laine  Time  continuing 
until  then.  At  the  moment,  no  one  except 
Arthur,  if  even  he  knows,  has  the  slight- 
est idea  who  will  be  in  his  nighttime  TV 
cast — so  many  of  his  "friends"  have  de- 
parted over  the  summer. 

And  away  we  go,  Saturday  night,  Sep- 
tember 29,  with  The  Jackie  Gleason  Show 
— live  and  an  hour-long!  "Roly-poly"  is 
bringing  back  his  popular  "Honeymoon- 
ers,"  with  all-new  in-person  sketches,  and 
not  a  patch  of  film!  Jackie  is  also  re- 
viving his  well-known  characterizations  of 
such  folk  as:  "Joe,  the  Bartender,"  "The 
Poor  Soul,"  "Reggie  Van  Gleason,  III," 
"The  Loud  Mouth,"  "Rudy,  the  Repair 
Man,"  "Ralph  Kramden,  Bus  Driver,"  and 
that  timid  fellow,  "Fenwick  Babbit." 
Audrey  Meadows,  Art  Carney,  Joyce  Ran- 
dolph, and  The  June  Taylor  Dancers  will 
all  be  back,  and  it  will  be  nice  to  have  the 
Gleason  Gang  in  the  flesh  again. 

Old  shows  returning,  with  new  films  and 
stories  are:  Burns  And  Allen,  Monday 
night,  September  10;  G-E  Theater,  new 
plays,  some  live  and  some  on  film,  with 
Ronald  Reagan  as  host,  Sunday  night, 
September  23;  I  Love  Lucy  and  December 
Bride,  both  resuming  Monday  night,  Oc- 


tober  1;  Studio  One,  Monday  night,  Sep- 
tember 24,  with  a  new  series  of  plays  and 
with  Betty  Furness  back  at  her  old  stand 
with  some  new  iceboxes;  and  Phil  Silvers' 
Sergeant  Bilko  marches  back  Tuesday 
night,  September  18. 

Oh!  Susanna  is  another  new  situation- 
comedy  entry  this  season,  debuting  Satur- 
day night,  September  29.  It's  on  film  and 
stars  Gale  Storm  as  a  social  director  on  a 
cruise  ship — and  her  role  gives  Gale  a 
chance  to  sing,  dance,  and  wear  knockout 
clothes.  The  veteran  movie  actress,  ZaSu 
Pitts,  plays  a  featured  part  as  head  of  the 
beauty  parlor  on  the  boat.  Jimmy  Lydon, 
who  was  so  well-liked  on  The  First  Hun- 
dred Years,  is  a  ship's  officer,  and  also 
the  love  interest.  From  all  indications,  this 
promises  to  be  an  entertaining  TV  series, 
and  CBS  has  great  hopes  for  it. 

Still  another  situation-comedy  series, 
this  one  non-musical  and  titled  The  Broth- 
ers, tees  off  Tuesday  night,  October  2,  re- 
placing last  season's  Navy  Log.  This  one 
involves  two  bachelor  brothers  who  live 
together  and  run  a  photo  studio  in  San 
Francisco.  It  co-stars  Gale  Gordon,  of 
Our  Miss  Brooks  fame,  and  Bob  Sweeney, 
remembered  from  My  Favorite  Husband. 

The  same  night  The  Herb  Shriner  Show 
makes  its  first  appearance  on  the  fall 
schedule.  The  Hoosier  humorist  will  star 
in  a  half-hour  variety  series,  which  will 
feature  his  Harmonica  Band  and  guest 
stars.  Herb  will  also  play  an  "Our  Town" 
type  narrator  in  a  dramatic  skit  each  week 
and  will  show  his  own  home  movies.  The 
Shriner  shindig  replaces  Joe  And  Mabel. 

Robert  Q.  Lewis  starts  his  new  Mon- 
day-through-Friday night  radio  show  for 
CBS  on  September  10.  Robert  Q.  takes 
over  Jack  Carson's  former  time  for  thirty 
minutes  of  songs,  music   and  fun. 

ABC: 

Medical  Horizons  leads  off  its  fall  series 
on  Sunday  afternoon,  September  9.  The 
first  program  will  originate  from  Sinai 
Hospital  in  Baltimore,  Maryland,  with  an 
interesting  live  presentation  of  "Premature 


One  of  these  days  .  .  .  September  29  .  .  .  Art  Carney,  Jackie  Gleason  and 
Audrey  Meadows  return  "live"  with  new  skits — plus  "The  Honeymooners." 


Hoosier    Herb    Shriner    spices    a    new 
variety  show  with  a  harmonica  band. 


Infant  Care."  On  subsequent  weeks,  Medi- 
cal Horizons  will  cover  medical  subjects 
of  vital  public  concern,  as  in  the  past. 

ABC  won  Ford  Theater  away  from  CBS 
this  year,  and  its  new  network  time  will 
be  Wednesday  nights,  starting  October  3. 
The  first  film  will  be  "The  West  in  Her 
Eyes,"  co-starring  Gene  Barry  and  Laraine 
Day.  Barry  plays  a  frontier  schoolteacher 
who  has  Laraine  and  her  child  as  students 
in  the  same  classroom. 

Another  show  transferring  its  point  of 
operation  is  Omnibus,  which  switches  from 
Sunday  afternoons  on  CBS  to  Sunday  eve- 
nings on  ABC,  still  as  an  hour-and-a-half 
program.  Alistair  Cooke  continues  to  run 
the  proceedings,  which  will  include  both 
live  and  film  segments.  Starting  date  should 
be  the  30th  of  September — but  there's  a 
chance  it  might  be  postponed  a  week. 

ABC  has  lots  of  other  new  shows  sched- 
uled to  begin  in  a  few  weeks — namely, 
Theater  Guild  Gaieties,  Command  Per- 
formance, International  Theater,  with  Shel- 
don Reynolds,  The  Joan  Davis  Show,  and 
a  new  documentary,  R.F.D.,  U.S.A.  I'll  have 
detailed  information  on  most  of  these  pro- 
grams for  you  next  month. 

This  'n'  That: 

Jack  Benny,  who  has  successfully  kid- 
ded his  violin-playing  for  years,  will  fiddle 
serious  style,  on  October  2  in  Carnegie 
Hall,  New  York,  of  all  places!  Jack  will 
play  it  straight  as  a  soloist  with  the  Phil- 
harmonic Orchestra,  Alfred  Wallenstein 
conducting,  for  a  big  benefit  evening.  The 
proceeds  will  go  to  the  Save  Carnegie  Hall 
Fund  and  to  another  cause  especially  close 
to  Benny's  heart,  the  Fund  for  Retarded 
Children. 

Sid  Caesar  and  wife  Florence  have  wel- 
comed their  third  addition  to  the  Caesar 
crew,  a  new  baby  girl  who  weighed  in  at 
eight  pounds,  eleven  ounces! 

And  on  Sir  Stork's  future  list  is  a  de- 
livery to  Julie  Stevens  and  her  husband, 
executive  Charles  Underhill.  The  star  of 
The  Romance  Of  Helen  Trent  is  hoping  for 


a  boy.  The  Underhills  have  a  girl  of  five. 

NBC  was  disappointed  in  the  ratings 
tallied  up  by  Weekday,  their  daytime  radio 
extravaganza,  which  went  off  the  air  a  few 
weeks  ago.  The  network  replaced  it  with 
NBC  Bandstand,  two  hours  of  live  music 
by  the  top  name  orchestras  of  the  country, 
with  Bert  Parks  as  the  permanent  emcee. 
When  asked  what  sort  of  music  would  be 
aired  to  the  predominantly  feminine  audi- 
ence, one  of  the  net's  brass  answered: 
"We'll  steer  clear  of  bands  that  play  only 
rock  'n'  roll  or  be-bop.  We  feel  the  house- 
wife wants  to  sweep  and  dust  in  the  morn- 
ing— not  jitterbug.  We'll  give  them  good, 
easy-listening  music."  The  executives  now 
have  their  fingers  crossed,  waiting  for  the 
first  rating  reports. 

Speaking  of  rock  'n'  roll,  Ed  Sullivan 
was  successful  in  signing  the  controversial 
Elvis  Presley  for  three  guest  appearances 
on  his  show.  If  Presley  gets  back  to  New 
York  in  time,  his  first  show  will  be  on 
September  9,  with  two  more  performances 
later  in  the  season. 

Sorry  we  have  to  omit  "Mulling  the 
Mail"  and  "What  Ever  Happened  To?" 
this  month,  but  we  wanted  to  bring  you 
all  the  news  about  the  fall  shows.  We'll 
make  up  for  it  in  the  November  issue. 


If  you  have  a  question  about  one  of 
your  favorite  people  or  programs,  or 
wonder  what  has  happened  to  someone 
on  radio  or  television,  drop  me  a  line — 
Miss  Jill  Warren,  TV-Radio  Mirror, 
205  East  42nd  Street,  New  York  17,  New 
York,  and  I'll  try  my  best  to  find  out  for 
you  and  put  the  information  in  the 
column.  Unfortunately,  we  don't  have 
space  to  answer  all  questions,  so  I  try 
to  cover  those  personalities  about  whom 
I  receive  the  most  inquiries.  Sorry,  no 
personal  answers,  so  please  do  not  en- 
close stamped  envelopes  or  postage,  as 
they  cannot  be  returned. 


! 


25 


One 
does  more  for  your 

than  brushing 

100  strokes  a  day 


^%j 


No  jars 


no  bottles 


fbfcttflnBu. 


no  messy 
hands 


,LJ 


<D 


anoiin 


1SCO 


THE  NEW  HAIRDRESSING  IN  SPRAY  FORM 


. 


26 


Spray  on  this  greasefess  hairdressing 
after  shampoos— after  permanents— 
and  whenever  your  hair  is  dull  or  dry 

You  know  what  brushing  does.  Now  give  your 
hair  the  same  beautiful  results  a  quicker, 
easier  way.  Spray  on  LANOLIN  DISCOVERY 

—a  few  quick  brush  strokes,  and  this  new 
kind  of  hairdressing  conditions  every  hair  right 
down  to  the  scalp.  Instantly  your  hair  looks 
youthfully  alive  with  bright  sparkling  highlights. 


Makes  your  hair  naturally  soft 

—naturally  easy-to-manage 


—naturally  shiny. . .  TODAY 


Available  wherever  cosmetics  are  sold 

large  size  $1.25 

gianl  economy  size  $1.89  plus  tan 

Used  and  recommended  by 
professional  beauticians  everywhere 


MAN  of  MANY  TALENTS 


By   MARTIN   COHEN 

Arthur  Godfrey  is  a  man  .  .  .  and 
he  is  a  legend  .  .  .  but  he  is 
no  phoney.  You  can  love  or  hate 
him,  fight  or  agree  with  him,  but  you 
can't  argue  with  his  integrity.  He 
does  things  because  he  wants  to, 
and  he  says  what  he  believes.  .  .  . 
Arthur  Godfrey,  grandfather,  avia- 
tor, entertainer,  farmer,  horseman, 
is  one  of  the  great  American  suc- 
cess stories.  As  a  lad,  he  didn't  have 
a  nickel  for  a  merry-go-round  ride 
— but,  last  year,  he  headlined  the 
National  Horse  Show.  When  he  was 
ten,  his  father  went  broke  and 
Arthur  worked  before  and  after 
school  to  help  get  food  on  the  table 
— at  fourteen,  he  was  alone  and  on 
his  own.  Today,  Arthur  picks  up 
a  weekly  paycheck  of  $35,000— 
which  is  little  enough,  considering 
that  sponsors  pay  CBS  twenty-two 
million  a  year  for  his  services.  .  .  . 
This  is  a  wonderful  success  story. 
There  have  been  many  other  such 
true  stories  in  America.  But  the 
difference  here  is  that,  with  success, 
the  Redhead's  story  begins  all  over 
again.  Because,  no  matter  what  you 
are  talking  about — his  horses,  his 
farm,  his  airplanes,  his  boats,  his  hob- 
bies— you  are  talking  about  things 
that  he  takes  seriously.  Arthur  has 
no  toys.  There  are  no  trivia  in  his 
life.  None  of  his  interests  is  phoney. 


The  Redhead  does  an  outdoor  show 
from  the  Kenilworth  Hotel,  Florida. 
Below — DC-3,  one  of  his  two  planes. 


With  success,  Arthur  Godfrey's  story  has  only 
begun,  as  he  ever  grows  and  develops  new  skills 


Continued 


■► 


27 


Arthur  astride  a  palomino  at  his  farm  in  Leesburg,  Virginia.   A  dressage  expert,  Arthur  wowed  'em  at 
the  National   Horse  Show.  (Below)   Mary  Godfrey,    Arthur's  wife,   shares  the  family   love   for   riding. 


MAN  of  MANY  TALENTS 


(Continued) 


He  puts  it  this  way:  "I  figure  the  good  Lord  put  us 
on  this  earth  and  gave  us  these  faculties  for  only  one 
reason,  to  make  the  most  of  them.  Otherwise  he  would 
have  made  man  a  parasite." 

Last  month,  on  August  31,  Arthur  was  fifty-three. 
He  looks  fourteen  years  younger.  He's  got  more  hair 
than  a  bear,  and  it's  as  red  as  the  hood  of  a  fire  engine. 
And  he's  got  the  vitality  and  vigor  that's  under  that 
hood.  The  metal  hip?  Well,  he  can  get  around  with- 
out a  cane  for  a  few  minutes  at  a  time,  as  he  has  done 
on  the  Wednesday-night  show,  but  he  usually  pays 
for  it  with  extreme  pain.  This  he  keeps  pretty  much 
a  secret,  as  he  demonstrated  on  the  show. 

Down  at  the  farm,  he  was  instructing  one  of  the 
McGuire  Sisters  in  mounting  a  horse.  The  jumper 
weighed  1,100  pounds  and  chose  a  moment  on  the  air 
to  step  on  Arthur's  foot.  Arthur  winced.  No  question 
of  that.  But  the  show  went  on,  and  perhaps  Dr.  James 
T.  Jackson,  the  family  physician  at  Leesburg,  has  the 
simple  explanation:  "The  man  is  used  to  injuries  and 
is  used  to  pain.  He's  a  real  Spartan  in  many  ways.  Mr. 
Godfrey  probably  will  make  light  of  it  tomorrow." 

And  he  did,  although  the  hip  itself  is  something 
Arthur  has  never  made  light  of.  Because  of  that  hip, 
Arthur  couldn't  even  bend  over  to  tie  a  shoelace  for 
twenty-two  years.  He  couldn't  walk  straight,  and  one 
leg  was  shorter  than  the  other.  His  great  ambition 
was  to  be  a  "high  school"  rider  and  he  couldn't  do  this 
with  the  pre-operative  hip.  Now  he  has  a  mobile  hip, 
though  the  operation  was  not  wholly  successful.  "It 
slides  around  in  there,"  Godfrey  notes,  "but  I'm  not 
figuring  on  another  operation.  I'm  no  longer  even  tak- 
ing treatments.  The  therapy  is  now  my  own."  And 
he  adds  succinctly,  "But  it's   (Continued  on  page  79) 

Arthur  Godfrey  Time  is  heard  on  CBS  Radio,  M-F,  10  to  11:30 
A.M.,  and  seen  on  CBS-TV,  M-Th.,  10:30  to  11:30  A.M.,  under 
multiple  sponsorship.  Arthur  Godfrey's  Talent  Scouts  is  simul- 
cast over  CBS-TV  and  CBS  Radio,  Mon.,  8:30  P.M.,  sponsored  by 
Thomas  J.  Lipton,  Inc.,  The  Toni  Company,  and  Paper-Mate  Pens. 
The  Arthur  Godfrey  Show  is  seen  over  CBS-TV,  Wed.,  8  P.M.,  as 
sponsored  by  Pillsbury  Mills,  Kellogg  Co.,  Bristol-Myers  (Ban, 
Bufferin,  Vitalis,  Ipana),  Toni  and  Paper-Mate.  (All  times  EDT) 


Arthur,  though  an  excellent  marksman,  disapproves  of  hunt- 
ing .  .  .  will  shoot  only  muskrats  which  harm  pastureland. 


-«^. 


Daily  wake-up  swim  is  regular  routine  at  the  farm  from  the 
month  of  May  to  November.  "You  either  wake  up  or  drown." 


Breakfast  on  the  terrace  starts  each  day  for  the  Loanes. 
No  cook  herself,  Claudia  is  learning  fast  from  husband  Ken. 


Trees,  vines  and  flowers  make  terrace  look  like  real 
country  living.    Claudia  is  an  enthusiastic  "farmer." 


30 


Claudia  Morgan  knows  each  woman 
must  earn  it  for  herself— then  the 
rewards  can  be  treasured  forever 

By  MARION   HELMAN 


If  there's  one  thing  for  which  theatrical  people 
are  renowned,  aside  from  acting  ability,  of 
course,  it's  their  sentimentality.  Their  capacity 
for  nostalgia  is  second  to  absolutely  nothing, 
and   Claudia   Morgan — the   attractive   and   gallant 
Carolyn  Nelson  of  The  Right  To  Happiness,  as 
now  heard  on  CBS  Radio — is  no  exception. 

Were  she  to  need  an  excuse  for  this  sentimen- 
tality, any  more  than  she  might  need  an  excuse 
for  her  fine   acting   ability,   you'd   have   to 
blame  it  on  her  family,  for  Claudia  is  the  daughter 
of  the  late  Ralph  and  Georgianna  Morgan  and 
the  niece  of  the  late  actor,  Frank  Morgan  ...  as 
sentimental  a  family  as  ever  trod  the  boards.  In  the 
profession,  there's  a  little  legend  to  the  effect  that — 
with  the  exception  of  fruit,  candy  or  flowers — a 
Morgan  has  never  knowingly  discarded  a  gift. 
Upon  meeting  Claudia  on  her  home  grounds,  the 
truth  of  this  legend  becomes  evident. 

In  her  four-room  terrace  (Continued  on  page  70) 

Claudia  Morgan  is  Carolyn  Nelson  in  The  Right  To  Happiness, 
which  is  now  heard  over  CBS  Radio,  M-F,  at  2:05  P.M.  EDT. 


Spoon  collection,  unique  and  valued. 
Claudia    wouldn't    part    with    one. 


Grand  piano,  a  gift  from  her  mother,  is  greatly  prized. 


Loanes  favor  at-home  entertaining 
Claudia  invites  a  few  close  friends 


Small   stove   with    potted    plants  is 
memento  from  uncle  Frank  Morgan. 


House  Party  for  Blonds 


Susie  dances,  Potty  plays,  Marge,  Jack  and  "Terry"  applaud. 


Like  Art  Linkletter,  Jack  Slattery 

loves  children — particularly 

those  very  fair-haired  ones  at  home 

By  BUD  GOODE 

Four  blondes  are  madly  in  love  with  Jack 
Slattery,  the  personable  announcer  and 
stand-in  for  Art  Linkletter  on  his  House  Party 
show,  over  CBS-TV  and  Radio. 

"Even  so,"  says  Jack  with  a  bold  grin,  "I 
can't  keep  up  with  Link.   He  has  a  saUcy  little 
French  girl  and  a  raven-haired  Greek  lass 
who  write  him  weekly  letters.    It  is  lucky  for 
Link  that  Lois  approves." 

But  don't  get  the  wrong  impression.   Neither 
Linkletter   nor   Slattery   is   carrying   on   behind 
his  wife's  back.   Both  Art's  wife,  Lois,  and 
Jack's  wife,  Marge,  are  completely  aware  of 
the  entire  affair.    You  see,  the  two  European 
girls  in  Art's  life  are  a  pert,  saucy-eyed  French 
lass,  seven-year-old   (Continued  on  page   72) 

Jack  is  seen  and  heard  on  Art  Linkletter' s  House  Party, 
M-F— CBS-TV,  at  2:30  P.M.,  sponsored  by  Pillsbury  Mills, 
Lever  Brothers,  Kellogg  Company,  Swift  &  Co.,  Simoniz, 
and  others — on  CBS  Radio,  at  3  P.M.,  sponsored  by  Lever 
Brothers,  Swift,  Pharma  Craft,  Simoniz,  and  others.  (EDT) 


Maggie  hardly  needs  a  daisy  to  know  "they  love  me  .  .  ." 

2F 


Husband  Jack  may  be  in  love  with  three  other  blondes — Susie,   Maggie  and   Patty.    Wife  Marge 
simply  nods  her  light-auburn  tresses  and  tells  the   world  Jack's  even  "nicer"  at  home  than  on  TV. 


33 


— 


A  pair  of  Terrys 

brighten  the  life  of 

Jan  Miner:  Her  role  in  The 

Second  Mrs.  Burton— 

and  that  handsome 

Mr.  O'Sullivan  she  marrie< 

By  FRANCES  KISH 


TERRY  is  a  magic  name  to  Jan  Miner. 
Or  something  even  better  than  magic 
.  .  .  warm  and  very  real,  filled  with 
meaning  for  a  lifetime.  On  the  one 
hand,  there's  Terry  Burton — the  lov- 
able woman  whose  sympathy  and  com- 
mon sense  have  endeared  her  to  mil- 
lions of  CBS  Radio  listeners  .  .  .  and 
Jan  is  Terry,  heart  and  soul,  in  The 
Second  Mrs.  Burton.  On  the  other 
hand,  there's  Terry  O'Sullivan — the 
broad-shouldered  man  whose  talent 
and  good  looks  have  won  the  admira- 
tion of  millions  of  CBS-TV  viewers  .  .  . 
and  Jan  is  Mrs.  Terry  O'Sullivan,  heart 
and  soul,  in  private  life. 

Two  Terrys,  both  very  dear  to  Jan 
Miner.  As  a  woman,  she  finds  it  very 
easy  to  understand  Terry  Burton, 
whose  sympathies  and  interests  are  so 
much  like  her  own.  But,  as  a  woman, 
she  finds  it  somewhat  harder  to  under- 
stand Terry    (Continued  on  page  92) 

Jan  Miner  is  Terry  Burton  in  The  Second  Mrs. 
Burton,  CBS  Radio,  M-F,  at  2:15  P.M.  EDT. 


O'Sullivans  on  their  farm:  They  take 
their   chores   seriously — and    love    it. 


34 


O'Sullivans  in  their  New  York  home.    Note:  Jan's 
mother  painted  portrait  of  Terry  on  opposite  page. 


Terry — O'Sullivan,  that  is — is  not  only  a  talented 
actor,  but  made  the  fine  tables  for  their  apartment. 


Terry — Burton,  that  is — enjoys  both  cast  and  story  on  The  Second  Mrs.  Burton.   Left  to  right,  Dwight  Weist 
as  Stan  Burton,  Jan,  Larry  Haines  as  Lew  Archer,  Ethel  Owen  as  Mother  Burton,  Alice  Frost  as  Marcia  Archer. 


Fishing  is  one  of  many  hobbies  the  O'Sullivans  share, 
up  in    New   Hampshire   (even   around    New  York). 


Today  they  own  the  right-of-way  down  to  the  lake 
where  they  go  boating  with  Terry's  three  daughters. 


Tennis  is  his  best  game — but  Always  a  farmer  at  heart,  John 

their  first  date  was  for  golf.  cultivates  miniature  potted  trees. 


Making   furniture   is   another   big    hobby, 
and  "Boo"  adores  the  gold-leaf  painting. 


ONLY  VESTERDAV 


John  Graham  remembers  how  he  met 
his  oivn  "Valiant  Lady"  .  .  .  and  a 
score  of  wonderful  years  since  then 


By  ELIZABETH  BALL 


Younger  son   Robert  is  fascinated  by  Dad's  star- 
ling, "Willie,"  who's  learned  to  talk — and  whistle. 


Wife    Lyn    finds    John's    ideas    not    only    amusing    but 
practical.   Glass-topped  table  also  accommodates  feet! 


Says  John  Graham,  who  plays  Governor  Lawrence 
Walker  on  CBS-TV's  noontime  show,  Valiant  Lady, 
"I  think  perhaps  we're  quite  a  bit  alike,  the  Governor 
and  I.  I've  a  feeling  we  are  approximately  the  same 
age,"  John  smiles,  "that  we  both  have  a  homespun 
quality — I'm  a  homespun  character,  that's  for  sure,  a 
farmer  at  heart — and,  although  the  state  of  which 
Walker  is  governor  is  not  specified  in  the  script,  I  sus- 
pect that  he,  like  myself,  is  a  Midwesterner.  Reason  I 
think  so:  When  I  read  for  Leonard  Blair,  the  producer 
of  Valiant  Lady,  I'm  pretty  sure  it  was  my  Midwestern 


36 


John  Graham  and  his  Lyn  met  in  Birmingham,  Alabama,  22  years  ago. 
"I    remember  that  it  was   all   very  exciting,"   he   says.    "It   still  is." 


voice  that  clinched  the  job  for  me."  (It's  a  nice  voice.) 
Obviously,  too,  the  Governor  and  Mr.  Graham  are 
look-alikes,  both  being  six-foot-one  in  height,  rapier 
slender,  with  blue-gray-green  eyes,  crooked  eyebrows 
(which  once  caused  actor  Graham  to  be  fired  from  a 
summer-theater  play  by  a  well  known  actress!)  chis- 
eled features,  light  tan  hair  graying  at  the  temples,  a 
singularly  attractive  smile.  As  the  "love  interest"  on 
Valiant  Lady,   tall,   fair-haired   and   handsome   actor 


Graham  is  obviously  cast  to  perfection  in  the  role. 
Similarities  between  the  two  men  there  undoubtedly 
are.  But  also  dissimilarities,  many  of  them — such  as 
training  starlings,  for  instance,  an  interest  which  the 
governor  presumably  does  not  share  with  Mr.  Graham. 
"A  few  years  ago,"  explains  the  latter,  "a  bachelor 
friend  of  ours  here  in  New  York  picked  up  two  baby 
starlings,  kept  them  in  his  apartment,  taught  them  to 
whistle  and  to  talk,  and  they  {Continued  on  page  85) 


John  is  Gov.  Walker  in  Valiant  Lady,  CBS-TV,  12  noon  EDT,  as  sponsored  by  General  Mills.  The  Toni  Co.,  Wesson  Oil,  and  Tenderleaf  Tea. 


37 


, 


tt 


■  " 


For  the  best  role  a  man  could  have 
—for  the  first  real  home  Verna 
and  I  ever  had— well,  all  I  can  say 
is  a  heartfelt  "Thanks,  folks!" 

By  CLINT  WALKER 

Beats  me.  Yesterday,  I  was  a  nobody.  I  could  walk 
down  any  street,  anywhere,  without  running  into 
anything  more  personal  than  a  "Pardon  me!"  when 
someone  bumped  into  me.  The  only  mail  I  ever  got  were 
the  monthly  bills  and  a  few  letters  from  the  folks  back 
home,  asking  where  was  I  and  what  the  heck  was  I 
doing  now? 

But  TV  can  make  a  nobody  into  a  somebody  overnight 
and  that's  what  it's  done  for  me.  Today,  I  need  a 
secretary  to  answer  the  more  than  1500  letters  I  get 
every  week  from  you  folks  all  over  the  U.S.A.  Requests 
for  my  pictures,  too,  from  fans  and  fan  clubs  that  run. 
they  tell  me,  in  the  top  brackets  of  studio  stars,  both 
movie  and  TV.  And  I'm  sure  recognized  (and  autograph- 
hunted)  whenever  I  go  out  of  an  evening.  Best  of  all, 
Verna  and  I  have  a  roof  over  our  heads  we  can  call 
our  own — for  the  first  time  since  we  got  married 
eight  years  ago. 

What  has  happened  to  me  couldn't  happen  to  a  more 
astonished  guy.  Never  once,  during  the  years  I  was 
everything  from  a  ditch  digger  to  a  deputy  sheriff,  did 
it  occur  to  me  I  might  become  an  actor.  In  any  medium. 
To  me,  movie  and  TV  stars  were  a  different  breed 
of  people.  Hollywood  was  as  far  away  as  the  moon. 

According  to  my  Warner  Bros,  studio  biography:  "Clint 
Walker  traveled  an  adventurous  road  to  the  adventurous 
role  of  'Cheyenne'  in  the  Warner  Bros.  Presents  ABC- 
TV  network  series."  It  reads  better  than  it  lived.  Kind 
of  a  long,  steep  stretch — most  of  it  on  an  empty  stomach, 
too.  Yet  here  I  am,  where  I  am.  And,  although  I've 
been  advised  by  some  to  put  it  on  a  little,  I've  got  nothing 
to  hide.  Just  as  soon  tell  the  truth  about  how  I 
got  to  Hollywood. 

More  jobs  along  the  way  than  there  are  years  in  my 
life — which  began  May  30,  1927,  the  date  my  twin  sister 
and  I  were  born  in  Hartford,  Illinois.  My  sister  was 
christened  Lucille  Neoma  (Neoma  is  an  Indian  name, 
given  my  sister  because  somewhere  in  the  Walker  family, 
I'm  proud  to  say,  there  is  a  strain  of  American  Indian 
blood)  and  I  was  christened  Norman.  Hollywood,  for 
reasons  of  its  own,  re-christened  me  Clint.  Soon  after  my 
sister  and  I  were  born,  our  folks  moved  to  Alton, 


Here's  the  girl  to  whom  I  owe  so  much — my  wife  Verna. 
She  never  complained  when  the  going  was  rough,  and  is 
just  beginning  to  enjoy  the  easier  times  we   have   now. 


39 


It's  great  to  be  "Cheyenne,"  working  with  such  fine 
actors  as  Carl  Milletaire  (left)  and  Stanley  Adams — 
in    such    real,    adult   stories   on    Warner   Bros.   Presents. 


fcfc 


** 


(Continued) 


Love  those  Western  clothes  and  the  outdoor  life!  It's 
good  to  get  out  on  the  desert — but  better  to  be  in  our 
new  home,  as  our  Valerie  naps  in  comfort  and  security. 


Illinois,  and  that's  the  town  in  which  they  still  live 

At  the  age  of  nine,  I  was  earning  my  keep  setting 
up  cardboard  milk  bottles  as  targets  in  a  carnival.  At 
eleven,  I  was  working  as  a  pin-setter  in  a  bowling 
alley.  After  that,  I  was  a  Western  Union  messenger, 
delivery  boy  and  part-time  harvest  hand.  At  fourteen, 
I  was  big  enough  to  get  jobs  on  the  river  boats  plying 
up  and  down  the  Mississippi.  In  1944,  I  quit  high  school 
(in  my  third  year)  to  join  the  Merchant  Marine  and, 
for  three  years,  sailed  the  Great  Lakes  and  the  North 
American  Pacific  coastline  as  an  able-bodied  seaman 
with  the  Army  Transportation  Service. 

Back  home  in  Alton  again,  I  sold  automobiles, 
vacuum  cleaners  and  insurance,  door  to  door — and  I 
was  starving!  I  am  not  a  good  salesman.  So  I  went  to 
work  at  various  jobs — as  a  carpenter,  sheet-metal 
worker,  truck  driver,  ditch  digger,  day  laborer. 

And  I  fell  in  love. 

One  summer  day,  I  walked  into  an  ice-cream  parlor 
and  there — behind  the  counter — was  a  pretty  girl  with 
dark  hair  and  green  eyes.  And  that  was  it.  We  started 
going  together.  We'd  go  together  for  weeks,  then  not 
speak  for  weeks,  then  go  together  again.  Different 
things  would  set  off  explosions.  One  day,  Verna  was 
approached  on  the  street  by  a  woman — a  total  stranger 
— who  took  hold  of  her  arm  and  said,  "You  are  seeing 
a  man  named  Norman  Walker,  but  you  are  not  to  see 
him  again.  You  are  not  right  for  each  other."  I'm  in- 
terested in  mind  reading,  mental  telepathy,  hypnosis, 
unusual  phenonema  of  all  kinds,  but  I'm  nbt  super- 
stitious. I  laughed  off  the  woman  on  the  street  but,  for 
a  few  days,  we  were  not  "right  for  each  other." 

But  we  were. 

There  have  been  a  lot  of  words  written  about  love, 
how  you  know  for  sure  it  is  or  is  not  real  love.  How  I 
knew:  I  was  on  a  construction  job,  working  on  a  girder 
sixty  feet  above  a  cement  floor.  Thinking  about  Verna, 
I  stepped  off  into  space  and  was  saved  from  being 
mincemeat  only  by  catching  hold  of  a  pipe.  This  does 
it,  I  thought,  as  I  dangled,  either  we  get  married  now 
— or  we  call  it  quits  for  good. 

On  September  5,  1948,  we  were  married.  In  a  parson- 
age back  home.  In  an  envelope  in  my  pocket,  I  had 
thirty-five  hard-earned  dollars,  of  which  I  planned  to 
give  the  minister  fifteen,  and  save  twenty  for  the 
honeymoon  trip  to  Chicago — in  my  old  Model-A  Ford. 
But,  in  my  excitement,  I  handed  over  the  whole  wad 
to  the  minister.  Minute  it  changed  hands,  I  realized 
what  I'd  done,  but  couldn't  very  well  say,  "Hey,  wait, 
give  that  back  to  me!"  The  reverend  probably  won- 
ders to  this  day  why  that  sad  expression  was  on  my 
face,  as  I  took  off  on  my  honeymoon! 

Back  home  after  the  honeymoon  (financed  on  bor- 
rowed money),  I  went  back  to  work  digging  ditches, 
working  on  construction  jobs,  and  as  a  painter — of  100- 
foot  water  towers. 

From  my  father — who  has  worked  in  his  time  as  a 
boxer,  wrestler,  athletic  coach,  musician  and  pipe- 
fitter (he  is  now  a  pipe-fitting  superintendent  in  Alton) 
— I  inherited  my  handyman  way  of  working  at  various 
trades,  as  well  as  what  the  boys  in  the  studio  publicity 
department  describe  as  my    (Continued  on  page  87) 


Clint  Walker  stars  in  "Cheyenne,"  as  seen  every  other  Tues.  on  Warner  Bros.  Presents,  ABC-TV,  7:30  to  8:30  P.M.  EDT. 


40 


It  isn't  a  fancy  home,  but  plenty  of  room  and  lots  of  woodworking  gear  for  my 
hobby  (I  made  that  mask  on  the  wall).  Valerie  and  Verna  are  a  great  help  with  my 
fan  mail — and  a  sympathetic  audience,  as  we  watch  that  guy  "Cheyenne"  on  ABC-TV. 


* 


M 


"Champagne  Music"  for  Buddy,  almost  every  day  since  his  graduation  from 
high  school  a  year  ago,  when  he  first  played  his  guitar  for  Lawrence  Welk. 


Family  living  is  something  young  Buddy  (born  Merrill  Behunin)  has  always 
known  and  enjoyed.  He  poses  proudly  in  the  family  patio  with  his  brother 
Monnie,  sisters  Judy  and  Gloria,  mother  Juanita  and  father  Les  Behunin. 


Buddy  Merrill  sings  and  plays  his  guitar  on  The  Lawrence  Welk  Show,  seen  on  ABC-TV, 
on  Saturdays,  from  9  to  10  P.M.  EDT,  as  sponsored  by  the  Dodge  Dealers  of  America. 


'/mm 


But  Lawrence  Welk's  show- 

and  the  only  girl ! — 

are  more  than  dreams 

to  lucky,  gifted  Buddy  Merrill 

By  PAULINE  TOWNSEND 


Fiance  Faye  Philpott  is  already  studying 
homemaking    with    Buddy's    mother. 


Ike  a  lot  of  boys  in  their  late 
.  teens,  Merrill  Behunin,  of  Gar- 
dena,  California,  had  his  life  pretty 
well  planned.  ...  He  was  eighteen, 
only  a  few  weeks  away  from  his 
high-school  graduation.    He  would  go 
on  to  college,  become  a  draftsman, 
maybe  even  an  architect.    This 
decision  had  come  hard.   For  Merrill's 
real  love  was  music.    He  was  a 
whiz  on  the   (Continued  on  page    89) 


42 


•■"••s    ; 


I  WAITED 


?? 


Feet  on  the  ground  and  head  in 

the  clouds,  Hal  March  takes  a  candid 

look  at  Candy  and  their  marriage 

By  MARIE  HALLER 

Ex-bachelor  Hal  March  admits,  "There  are  probably 
two  ways  of  looking  at  it:     One — I'm  glad 
I  waited  until  I  was  thirty-five,  professionally 
established  and  mentally  in  gear  for  marriage.    Or 
two — what  a  revolting  waste  that  Candy  and  I  didn't 
fall  in  love  and  marry  years  and  years  ago!"  .  .  .  The 
personable  emcee  of  The  $64,000  Question  grins  and 
adds,  "Actually,  it's  pretty  ridiculous  to  speculate 
on  the  past  when  the  present  is  so  perfect.    And, 
knowing  myself,  I'm  positive  that,  had  I  met  Candy 
when  I  was  at  the  so-called  highly  marriageable 
age  .  .  .  you  know,  the  mid-twenties  ...  I'd  have  made 
a  horrible  botch  of  a  marriage.   At  that  time,  neither 
I  nor  my  life  even  approached  stability.  And  in  my 
opinion — without  both  feet  at  least  somewhere  near 
the  ground — a  marriage  is  doomed.  ...  As  for 
Candy,  I  suspect  she  was  always  more  stable  than  I. 
Funny  thing  .  .  .  and  honest-to-Pete  truth  ...  is  that, 


I 


Welcomel  Coming  home  to  Candy  more  than  fulfills 
all  of  Hal's  dreams  of  what  a  marriage  should  mean. 


Candy's  painting  inspires  him  to  a 
pugilistic  pose — and  obvious  pride. 


Hal    prefers    "modern,"    his    bride 
"traditional" — so  they  compromise. 


He's  trying  hard  to  get  Candy  to 
join  him  in  singing  lessons — but  .  .  . 


44 


{ 


Continued 


* 


Hal  likes  to  cook  sturdy  bachelor  dishes.    Candy 
loves  to  "serve  up"  with  her  fragile  bridal  china. 


a  i* 


I'M  GLAD  I  WAITED 


?? 


(Continued) 


when  I  first  met  her  five  years  ago  at  a  party,  even  though 
I  was  definitely  not  in  the  marrying  mood,  I  left  the  party 
thinking:  When  I  finally  do  marry,  I  hope  the  girl  will 
be  like  Candy.  Now,  five  years  later,  I'm  here  to  say 
Candy  is  everything  I  thought  she  was  .  .  .  everything 
I  ever  thought  I  wanted  in  a  wife." 

Which  statement  is  considerably  more  than  simply  a 
newlywed  husband  speaking  from  his  private  cloud  on 
upper  Fifth  Avenue.  With  the  advent  of  The  $64,000 
Question  on  CBS-TV,  Hal  leaped  into  several  million 
American  homes  weekly  and  soon  became  TV's  number- 
one  bachelor.  National  magazines  clamored  for  bachelor 
stories  to  satisfy  their  heavy  mail  requests  for  information 
on  this  top  quiz  show's  charming  master  of  ceremonies. 
Hal  was  a  good  sport.  Beyond  that,  he  was  honest.  He 
felt  if  his  viewers  really  wanted  to  know  why  he  was  still 
a  bachelor  .  .  .  what  he  was  looking  for  in  a  wife  .  .  . 
they  should  be  told  the  truth.  He  was  utterly  candid  in 
explaining  he  was  not,  and  never  had  been,  a  "con- 
firmed bachelor"  .  .  .  was  by  no  stretch  of  the  imagination 
a  woman-hater.  Quite  the  contrary.  He  did  a  lot  of 
dating  and  confessed  that,  even  though  beauty  of  itself 
was  not  a  prerequisite,  it  was  true  he  very  definitely  had 
"an  eye  for  beauty." 

Carrying  this  one  step  further,  Hal  had  admitted,  "I 
particularly  like  girl  singers.  For  years  I  seem  to  have 
gravitated  toward  them."  His  date  book — which  over 
the  course  of  years  has  included  such  names  as  Doris  Day, 
Gloria  De  Haven,  Kay  Starr,  Betty  Ann  Grove  and  Peggy 
Lee — proved  the  accuracy  of  this  statement. 

In  the  September  1955  issue  of  TV  Radio  Mirror,  Hal 
opened  up  considerably  more,  by  announcing  to  this 
magazine's  readers  that  he  felt  he  was  now  ready  for 
marriage  .  .  .  his  life  had  stabilized  to  the  point  where 
he  thought  he  was  now  able  to  (Continued  on  page  90) 

Hal  March  is  master  of  ceremonies  for  The  $64,000  Question,  seen 
on  CBS-TV,  Tuesday,  10  P.M.  EDT,  as  sponsored  by  Revlon,  Inc. 


Candy  couldn't  have  a  better  model  for  sketching 
- — Hal  couldn't  pose  for  a  more  flattering  artist! 


Now  that  her  emcee-hubby  has  branched  out  into  acting, 
too,  Candy's  proved  a  great  help  cuing  him  in  his  lines. 


Bachelor  Hal  March  never  kept  a  scrapbook.    But  their  wedding  album  was  "something  special,"  started  a  new  collection. 


Bottle  lamps  are  his  hobby — closet 
still    holds    her   treasured    antiques. 


He's  proud  of  her  skill  as  decora- 
tor,  blending  their  various  tastes. 


Impish   picture   hangs   above   ultra- 
practical  cabinet  unit  Hal  designed. 


m 


■ 


One  thing   sure:    Richard   and    Mary   Stuart   Krolik's   first-born, 
Cynthia,  will  love  having  a  sister  or  brother  all  her  very  own. 


Mary  Stuart's  next  baby  is  bound  to  be  "twins" — 
one  at  home,  and  one  on  TVs  Search  For  Tomorrow 

By  MARY  PARKER  SHERWOOD 


As  she  plays  Joanne  Tate,  the  gallant  young  expectant  mother 
on  CBS-TV's  Search  For  Tomorrow,  Mary  Stuart  is 
literally  "living  the  part"  these  days.    She's  expecting 
her  own  second  private-life  baby  at  almost  any  minute! 
This  is  just  one  more  reason  for  Mary's  abiding  delight  in  this 
family-life  television  role  which  allows  her  to  lead  a  rich, 
rewarding  family  life  of  her  own  at  home. 

The  most  important  member  of  that  family,  right  now,  is 
one-year-old  Cynthia — first-born  child  of  Mary  and  her 
producer  husband,  Richard  Krolik.    "And  we're  going  to  make 
sure  that  she  goes  right  on  feeling  important,"  Mary  promises, 
"especially  after  Teeny  arrives."   These  young  parents  are 
not  tense  or  apprehensive  people,  and  (Continued  on  page  81) 

Mary  Stuart  is  Joanne  Tate  in  Search  For  Tomorrow,  over  CBS-TV,  M-F,  12 :30 
P.M.  EDT,  sponsored  by  Procter  &  Gamble  for  Joy,  Spic  and  Span,  and  Gleem. 


Cynthia    already   adores    Lynn    Loring — who    is 
Mary's  daughter  Patti  in  Search  For  Tomorrow. 


\J* 


Watching  one  little  girl's  lively  curiosity,   Mary 
wonders    what    four    children    might    be    like! 


49 


■**-**. 


^9f% 


/ 


«*" 


i 


fMpS* 


A  ROYAL  GOOD  TIME 


Ernie  Kovacs  and  Edie  Adams  live 

in  "a  castle  in  the  sky" — and 
count  their  blessings  with  a  prayer 

By  GREGORY  MERWIN 

WHILE  everybody  else  was  arguing  about  who 
threw  the  overalls  in  Mrs.  Murphy's  chowder, 
Ernie  wholeheartedly  threw  himself  in.  The  star 
of  The  Ernie  Kovacs  Show,  over  NBC-TV,  is  very 
tall — about  six-three.  And  very  gentle — about 
as  gentle  as  a  live  volcano.  Or  as  the  Kapusta 
Kid  (always  a  puppet  with  a  mind  of  his  own) 
might  say:  "When  I  sit  down  at  the  piano  everyone 
laughs.  When  Ernie  sits  down,  they  scream. 
Naturally — his  piano  is  wired!"  It  stands  to  reason 
that  Ernie,  with  his  bristling  mustache  and 
brash  humor,  is  approached  timidly.  Edie  Adams, 
his  blue-eyed,  beautiful  wife,  says,  "I  always 
try  to  get  Ernie  talking,  when  we  meet  new  people, 
because  it's  only  a  matter  of  minutes  before  they 
find  out  he's  a  sweet  guy.  Actually,  he  never 
wisecracks  around  the  home.  He's  not  the  kind." 

Actually,  he's  the  kind  who  is  very  religious 
and  sentimental.  He  sends  (Continued  on  page  77) 

The  Ernie  Kovacs  Show,  with  Edie  Adams,  NBC-TV,  three 
Mon.  out  of  four,  8  to  9  P.M.  EDT,  is  sponsored  by  American 
Chicle  Co.  (Dentyne,  Rolaids,  Beeman's),  Helene  Curtis  In- 
dustries, Inc.  (Spray  Net)  and  Remington  Electric  Shavers. 
His  daily  Ernie  Kovacs  Show  is  heard  on  WABC  Radio  (N. 
Y.),  Mon. thru  Sat.,  6  to  9  A.M.,  under  multiple  sponsorship. 


Three  princesses  in  a  penthouse:  Daughters  Kip  and 
Betty,  wife  Edie — who  is  not  only  talented  but  non- 
temperamental.  "She  could  teach  angels,"  says  Ernie. 


Dining  at  home  has  no  problems  like  dining  out  with  two 
little  potato-smugglers!  View  of  Central  Park,  below,  is  a 
mural — not  the  over-the-treetops  vista  from  their  windows. 


By  PETER  CHARADE 


52 


Last  December,  a  commercial  fisherman  named  Arthur 
Olsen  returned  from  a  ten-day  trip  to  sea.  He  had 
no  sooner  entered  the  Fulton  Fish  Market,  in  lower 
Manhattan,  than  a  crowd  of  friends  surrounded  him. 
"What  your  wife's  been  doing  while  you've  been  away!" 
one  of  them  cried.  Some  laughed.  Some  shook  their 
heads  in  mock  horror.  ...  It  was  the  heavy-handed 
humor  of  seamen  ashore,  but  Olsen  knew  how  to  take 
a  ribbing  as  well  as  the  next  one.  All  the  same,  as  soon 
as  he  could  decently  make  his  getaway,  he  hurried  home 
to  see  what  Dorothy  was  up  to,  this  time. 

His  wife  was  waiting  for  him,  and  she  was  proud  of 
what  she  had  done.    She  had  won  $12,500 — as  her  part 


of  a  $25,000  prize  on  CBS-TV's  Name  That  Tune  .  .  . 
RCA  Victor  had  signed  her  to  a  recording  contract 
.  .  .  NBC  was  lining  up  guest  spots  on  radio  and  tele- 
vision, beginning  with  Dr.  Frances  Horwich's  justly 
famous  Ding  Dong  School.  ...  "And  the  first  thing  we're 
going  to  do,"  Dorothy  told  Arthur,  "is  move  out  of  this 
one-room  apartment  to  some  place  where  there  are  lots 
of  windows."  Since  Olsen  couldn't  get  a  word  in,  he 
started  singing  to  himself — but  loud  enough  for  her  to 
hear,  of  course.  The  accent  was  Norwegian,  but  the 
meaning  was  clear — for  the  song  was  "Little  Small 
Town  Girl  With  Your  Big  Town  Dreams." 

He   didn't  object   to   those   dreams.    In   fact,   it   was 


Dorothy  Olsen's  daydreams  led  her 

to  big-city  success  .  .  .  and 
a  wonderful  world  full  of  children 


Dorothy  and  Arthur  met  when  Dorothy  was  singing  in  a 
Greenwich  Village  night  club.  Friends  did  the  match- 
making,   but    it    was    love    at    first    sight — and    still    is. 


wonderful  seeing  her  so  happy,  so  confident,  so  sure 
their  luck  had  changed  at  last.  But  he  knew  the  story 
of  her  life.  He  knew  the  years  of  struggle  and  hard 
work  that  lay  behind  her  "overnight  success."  What's 
more,  he  knew  how  vulnerable  she  was.  She  was  a 
grade-school  teacher  who  loved  children  so  much  they 
just  naturally  loved  her  right  back.  But  maybe  it 
wasn't    like    that    in    show    (Continued    on    page    67 ) 

Ding  Dong  School,  presided  over  by  "Miss  Frances"  (Dr.  Horwich), 
is  seen  over  NBC-TV,  M-F,  at  10  A.M.  EDT.  Name  That  Tune. 
emceed  by  George  de  Witt,  is  seen  over  CBS-TV,  Tues.,  at  7 :30  P.M.. 
as  sponsored  by  Whitehall  Pharmacal  CAnacin)  and  Lanolin  Plus. 


Home  from  the  sea,  Arthur  finds  Dorothy  waiting  to 
greet  the  Miriam  A.  Norway's  Merchant  Marine 
first  brought  Arti  to  the  shores  of  his  post-war  home. 


Schoolteacher  and  fisherman  share  a  hobby — a 
school  of  fish  (above).  Below,  Dorothy's  brother 
Harry    and    mother,    Mrs.    Bell,    visit    the    Olsens. 


The    Edge   of   Night 


I.  Police  Lieutenant  Mike  Karr  dearly  loves  young  Sara  Lane,  though  career 
demands  have  delayed  their  marriage.  Sara's  mother  Mattie  thoroughly  ap- 
proves her  romance,  but  brother  Jack  is  very  resentful  of  Mike's  influence  on  him. 


Monticello,  TV  backdrop  for  events  in  The  Edge 
Of  Night,  is  a  typical  town  and,  day  by  day,  the 
town  and  its  people  are  becoming  better  known.  As  in 
any  middle-sized  city,  everybody  knows  everybody. 
In  Monticello,  there  are  the  good  people  and  the  bad. 
There  are  the  public-spirited  and  the  self-seeking. 
The  open,  respectable  happenings  which  make  the  town 
a  charming  place  to  live  .  .  .  and  the  boiling  under- 
current of  evil  doings  which  stand  revealed  in  the 
annals  of  the  Police  Department. 

Any  gossip  in  Monticello  could  tell  you  about  the 
people  of  the  town,  but  it  would  be  better  to  ask  Lieut. 
Mike  Karr  of  the  Police  Department.  Because  Mike's 
a  smart  young  man.  He's  studying  for  his  bar  ex- 
aminations, you'  know.  And  he's  got  his  eye  on  the 
D.  A.'s  office.  Mike  would  know  the  true  story  of  the 
town.  Perhaps  he  wouldn't  want  to  talk.  But  let's 
suppose  for  a  minute  that  he  would.  He  could  tell 
about  the  Lanes,  and  that  Spode  family  in  town,  and 
Grace  O'Keefe,  who's  public  stenographer  at  the  Plaza 
Hotel,  and  her  boyfriends.  If  he'd  talk.  .  .  . 

"Harry  Lane?"  Mike  Karr  would  say.   "Harry  is  an 


enigma  to  most  of  this  town.  But  I  take  a  cagey  view 
of  Harry.  He  runs  a  business  here,  seems  on  the  level. 
But,  a  while  ago,  a  truck  of  his  got  hijacked.  Supposed 
to  be  handling  a  regular  shipment  for  Harry's  business 
firm.  But,  when  the  police  got  hold  of  it,  it  turned  out 
to  be  loaded  with  a  shipment  of  'hot'  mink!  It  took 
us  time  and  a  lot  of  police  work,  but  we  got  the  guy 
responsible.  Harry  Lane's  assistant — man  named  Spode 
— apparently  tried  to  run  through  some  stolen  mer- 
chandise without  letting  Harry  know  what  he  was  up 
to.  We  caught  the  guys  who  hijacked  the  truck — one 
by  the  name  of  Bill  Smith — red-handed.  And  we 
found  one  of  his  accomplices,  a  no-good  teenager 
named  Walt  Johnson.   But  we  missed  Smith's  partner. 

"We  know  who  he  is,  all  right.  Fellow  named  Larry 
White.  But  my  partner  in  the  Force,  Charlie,  didn't 
close  in  quite  fast  enough  on  the  day  we  made  the 
arrests,  and  Larry  got  away.  Of  course,  the  two  we 
caught  eventually  'sang.'  That's  how  Spode  finally  was 
implicated. 

"I  can  understand  how  Spode  might  have  gotten  off 
the  straight  and  narrow.  He's  got  a  nice  wife,  nice  kid. 


54 


2.  Harry  Lane,  devious  and  ambitious,  secretly  leads 
wife  Cora  up  to  divorce  action.  A  long-planned 
engagement  party  for  Harry's  niece  Sara  and  Mike 
Karr  is  to  be  another  occasion  to  show  her  weaknesses. 


But  his  wife  Hester  has  been  a  semi-invalid  for  years. 
Spode  adores  her  and  the  little  girl,  Bebe,  but  Hester's 
illness  has  cost  him  a  lot — more  than  Harry  Lane  pays 
him — for  hospital  expenses  and  the  like.  So  I  guess  he 
was  tempted  to  make  a  fast  dishonest  buck. 

"But,  you  know,  I  still  wonder  how  a  smart  operator 
like  Harry  Lane  could  have  been  hoodwinked  by  him. 
Harry's  been  so  noble  about  the  whole  thing.  Talk  is 
that  he's  supporting  Hester  and  the  child  while  Spode 
serves  his  sentence.  Makes  Harry  look  real  good 
around  the  town.  But  I  can't  help  but  wonder.  Harry's 
not  usually  that  generous. 

"Of  course,  I  really  shouldn't  talk  about  Harry  at 
all.  He's  the  uncle  of  the  girl  I'm  going  to  marry.  And 
Sara  wouldn't  like  me  to  open  up  on  him,  even  if  she 
dislikes  and  distrusts  him  herself. 

"But,  mainly,  Sara's  against  Harry  because  of  the 
situation  with  her  Aunt  Cora,  Harry's  wife.  Cora's 
sort  of  a  sad  woman.  And,  the  last  few  months,  she's 
seemed  to  be  hitting  the  bottle  quite  a  lot,  sort  of  dotty 
— I  understand — because  she's  childless,  lost  her  only 
baby,  and  Harry  doesn't  want  to  adopt.  Lately,  though, 
she's  been  much  better.  Sara  got  Cora  interested  in 
taking  care  of  Hester  Spode's  little  girl  without  letting 
Harry  know  about  it.  Seems  to  me,  maybe  Cora  will 
come  out  of  her  shell,  after  all.  And  Cora  loves  my 
girl  Sara.    Why,  for  weeks  she's  been  planning  a  big 


The  dramatic  story  of  the  people 

of  a  town  called  Monticello— their  lives, 


their  loves  and  their  problems 


3.  Grace  O'Keefe,  Sara's  friend,  has  long  yearned  for 
home  and  family.  Her  hopes  may  soon  materialize,  as 
she  grows  ever  fonder  of  widower  Paul  Roberts.  Here, 
she    thanks    Paul    for   sending    her    a    thoughtful    gift. 


See  Next  Page 


55 


(Continued) 


4.  Hester  Spode,  ailing  wife  of  Martin  Spode,  was  for 
years  lovingly  ministered  to  by  him.  But  Martin  is  no 
longer  at  home  to  protect  his  wife  and  their  daughter 
Bebe.    He  is  serving  time  for  complicity  in  a  robbery. 


5.  Grace  O'Keefe  and  Cora  Lane  have  both  fallen  in 
love  with  young  Bebe  Spode,  in  need  of  care  when  her 
mother  is  hospitalized.  Here,  in  hotel  flower  shop, 
Cora  buys   Bebe  a   gift,   as  Grace  O'Keefe  looks  on. 


6.  Tracking  down  suspect  in  robbery  leads  Lieutenant 
Karr  and  Sergeant  Brooks  into  danger.  Trapped  in 
dressing  room  of  singer-girlfriend,  the  man  shoots  to 
kill — and    Mike    Karr   is   wounded    by   a   flying    bullet. 


blow-out  for  Sara  and  me,  to  celebrate  our  engage- 
ment. Of  course,  the  party  would  have  come  off  long 
ago  .  .  .  except  for  the  fact  that  I  got  mixed  up  in 
trying  to  round  up  Larry  White — one  of  the  guys  on 
the  truck  robbery— and  ended  up  with  a  bullet  not  too 
far  away  from  my  heart. 

"Here's  how  it  happened:  My  sidekick  Charlie  and  I 
knew  that  Larry  had  a  girl — a  singer,  she  is.  Girl  named 
Rose  La  tour,  who  works  a  night-club  act  here  in  town. 
So  we  figured  that  Larry'd  eventually  try  to  see  her 
.  .  .  and,  when  he  did,  we  were  there'  waiting  for  him. 
But  he  tried  to  shoot  Charlie,  and  I  sort  of  got  in  front 
of  the  bullet  instead. 

"Let  me  tell  you,  my  girl  Sara  was  all  charged  up 
about  that  gun  fight.  Wanted  me  to  leave  the  Force 
right  away.  I've  had  a  terrible  time  convincing  her 
that  this  is  my  life  and  I  can't  give  it  up  for  anything. 

"Of  course,  Sara's  had  her  troubles.  Her  father 
George — Harry  Lane's  brother — just  up  and  disap- 
peared from  Monticello  a  number  of  years  ago.  Seems 
Harry  had  something  to  do  with  that,  too.  Sara's  the 
oldest.  Has  a  brother  Jack,  who's  only  eighteen  now. 
And  her  mother  naturally  looked  to  Sara  to  sort  of 
act  as  head  of  the  family  after  George  blew.  So  that's 
why  Sara's  been  working  all  these  years.  She  runs  the 
florist  shop  in  the  Plaza  Hotel.  Brother  Jack's  been 
showing  some  resentment  against  Sara.  Thinks,  I 
guess,  that  he  ought  to  wear  the  pants  in  the  family. 
Also,  for  a  while,  he  thought  the  sun  rose  and  set  on 
his  Uncle  Harry.  And  did  that  kid  hate  me!  Thought 
I  wanted  to  run  Sara  and  the  works,  or  something.  But 
lately,  since  the  shooting,  he's  almost  beginning  to  like 
me — almost.  Guess  he  figures  me  for  a  hero.  .  .  . 

"Funny,  how  good  things  seem  to  come  out  of  bad. 
I  get  shot.  Jack  likes  me  better.  Sort  of  the  same  thing 
when  old  Spode  got  his  sentence.  Harry  Lane  takes 
over  for  the   Spode   family,   money-wise.    And   then, 


56 


7.  Mike  misses  death  by  inches,  and  recuperation  is  slow.  To  Sara  Lane,  his  fiancee, 
the  shooting  means  a  panicky  fear.  If  Mike  continues  his  dangerous  police  work, 
she  is  convinced  that  someday,  somehow,  another  unknown  criminal  will  kill  Mike. 


when  Hester  gets  worse  and  has  to  have  an  operation — 
the  bad  thing  again — everybody  jumps  in  to  take  care 
of  little  Bebe.  As  I  said,  Cora  Lane  took  some  care  of 
the  kid  without  letting  Harry  know  about  it.  And  Sara 
has  been  helping,  too,  with  worrying  about  Bebe.  But, 
best  of  all,  Grace  O'Keefe — the  Plaza's  public  steno — 
ended  up  taking  the  youngster  to  live  with  her  till 
Hester  gets  back.  Grace  is  crazy  about  the  kid.  Having 
her  around  may  end  up  with  Grace  ditching  my  friend 
Charlie  (he's  been  sort  of  ducking  the  responsibility 
of  marriage)  and  getting  herself  tied  up  to  a  widower 
named  Paul  Roberts  who  really  wants  a  wife  and  has 
two  kids   of  his   own. 

"Never  can  tell  how  things  will  work  out,  can  you? 

"There's  Harry  Lane  and  Cora,  my  girl  Sara  and  her 
family,  Grace  O'Keefe  and  my  friend  Charlie  and  her 
new  beau  Paul,  and  old  man  Spode  and  his  wife  and 
child.  Every  single  one  of  them's  got  problems.  And, 
to  look  at  them  on  Main  Street,  nobody  would  guess 
what's  going  on  in  their  minds.  No,  in  a  town  like 
Monticello,  you  can't  tell  what  goes  on  by  just  what 
you  read  in  the  papers.  .  .  .  Myself,  I  still  wonder 
about  Harry  Lane  ...  I  just  can't  help  wondering 
whether    he    knows    more    than    he's    been    telling." 


Pictured  here,  as  seen  on  TV,  are: 

Mike  Karr John   Larkin 

Sara  Lane Teal  Ames 

Mattie  Lane Peggy  Allenby 

Jack  Lane Don  Hastings 

Harry  Lane Lauren  Gilbert 

Cora  Lane Sarah  Burton 

Martin  Spode Eric  Dressier 

Hester  Spode Helen  Shields 

Bebe  Spode Beverly  Lundsford 

Grace  O'Keefe Maxine  Steuart 


The  Edge  Of  Night,  CBS-TV,  M-F,  4:30  to  5  P.M.,  is  sponsored 
by  Procter  &  Gamble  for  Tide,  Crest,  Camay,  and  Spic  and  Span. 


57 


A  HOMEFUL  OF  HUMOR 


For  a  self-confessed 
"hermit,"  Jack  Paar  has  a 
strange — and  wonderful- 
secret  of  happiness 

By  ED  MEYERSON 


A  television  columnist  once  de- 
scribed Jack  Paar  as  a  "finished 
actor."  He  intended  the  remark 
as  a  compliment,  but  Jack  himself 
gave  it  the  twist.  "I  was  finished,"  he 
said,  "at  twenty-one,  twenty-five, 
thirty-one,  and  thirty-four."  .  .  . 
At  twenty-one,  he  was  a  popular 
disk  jockey  in  Buffalo,  N.  Y. — but 
then  his  draft  number  came  up.  In 
the  Army,  he  worked  with  a  USO 
troupe  and  had  "his  greatest  success 
— I  was  held  over  for  four  years," 
he   points   out.   But   then,   after   he 


Miriam,  Jack  and  Randy  Paar  rejoice 
in  a  new  home.  Jack's  role:  Handyman. 


Year  of  the   Big   Move  for  Jack,   from   CBS   to   ABC,    from  apartment  to  suburban   home  of  his  own 


became  the  most  popular  entertainer 
in  the  Pacific,  the  war  ended  and 
Jack  was  out  of  a  job  again.  .  .  . 
In  Hollywood,  a  film  studio  signed 
him  to  a  three-year  contract.  Then 
a  rival  studio  hired  him  for  a  year. 
Both  gave  him  a  weekly  paycheck, 
but  neither  would  give  him  a  part. 
And  so,  at  thirty-one,  he  was 
"finished"  in  motion  pictures  before 
he  had  even  had  a  chance  to  get 
started.  ...  In  1947,  he  was  Jack 
Benny's  summer  replacement  on 
radio.  In  1950,  he  took  over  Take  It 


Do-it-yourself   paint   job   gets   a 
snappy  assist  from  young  Randy. 


Or  Leave  It.  But  then,  at  thirty-four 
— after  a  year-and-a-half  of  un- 
employment—  he  felt  he  was 
"through"  in  radio  too. 

In  1952,  however,  Jack  began  a 
whole  new  career  in  still  another 
medium  —  television.  CBS  started 
using  him  as  a  summer  replacement. 
"Actually,"  he  remarked  at  the  time, 
"it's  kind  of  flattering  to  do  a  sum- 
mer show.  There  are  a  lot  of  winter 
comedians  who  wouldn't  keep  in  the 
summer."  But,  after  a  number  of 
them,   he    (Continued  on  page   83) 


Father  and  daughter  are  great  pals. 
Jack  lauds  Randy's  sense  of  humor. 


Mid-afternoon     pause     as     Jack 
and   Miriam  consult  on   next  job. 


The  Jack  Paar  Show  is  heard  over  ABC 
Radio,  M-F,  11:15  to  11:30  A.M.  EDT. 


59 


WHO'S  WHO   ON 

Telephone  Hour 


Long-hairs  often  split  hairs.  But 
i  there  is  a  singular  lack  of  tearing 
of  topknots  on  the  Telephone  Hour. 
Among  the  audience,  be  they  afficion- 
ados  of  Bach  or  Richard  Rodgers, 
there  is  the  comfortable  assurance 
that  there  is  no  editing  or  abridg- 
ment as  the  world's  greatest  music  is 
performed  by  the  world's  greatest 
artists  on  one  of  network  radio's 
longest  continuous  programs.  Among 
these  performers  at  Carnegie  Hall, 
there  is  no  temperament.  "We  pre- 
sume that  the  artists  who  are  our 
guests  do  not  have  inadequacies," 
says  producer  Wallace  Magill,«  "and 
everyone  respects  Don  Voorhees."  .  .  . 
The  presumption  is  valid.  In  sixteen 
years  of  Monday  night  broadcasts, 
the  Telephone  Hour  has  rostered  the 


great  names  in  the  musical  world. 
Fritz  Kreisler,  a  long-time  "hold- 
out" against  radio,  made  his  broad- 
cast debut  on  Telephone  Hour,  as  did 
Ferruccio  Tagliavini  and  Renata  Te- 
baldi.  Jascha  Heifetz,  Marian  Ander- 
son, Ezio  Pinza  and  others  of  their 
stature  have  appeared  on  the  pro- 
gram many  times.  .  .  .  Actually,  the 
program  is  a  matter  of  definition. 
Superlatives  come  automatically,  but 
when  someone  suggested  that  it  might 
be  categorized  as  "a  classical  music 
program,"  Donald  Voorhees,  conduc- 
tor of  the  Bell  Telephone  Orchestra, 
pronounced  an  emphatic  no.  Rather, 
he  says,  the  program  presents  the 
great  classics  of  music — music  that 
has  a  meaning  for  people,  whatever 
its     origin,     whoever    its     composer. 


Telephone  Hour  is  broadcast  "live"  from  Carnegie  Hall  over  NBC  Radio,  Monday  at  9  P.M.  EDT. 


n  a  program  that  is  your  front-row  seat  at  Carnegie  Hall,  the  world's 


An  orchestra  must  play  as  a  single  and  sensitive  instrument . . .  more  than  half  of  the  Bell  Telephone  Orchestra  were  at  its  debut. 


V 


»       !    if  .     V 

Yd;. 


greatest  artists  present  "music  that  has  a  meaning" 


Continued 


► 


Rehearsals  are  low-keyed,  standards  are  high  for  Don  Voorhees,  producer  Wally  Magill  and  soloists  such  as  Eileen  Farrel 


WHO'S  WHO  OIM 

Telephone  Hour 


Long-hairs  often  split  hairs.  But 
i  there  is  a  singular  lack  of  tearing 
of  topknots  on  the  Telephone  Hour. 
Among  the  audience,  be  they  afficion- 
ados  of  Bach  or  Richard  Rodgers, 
there  is  the  comfortable  assurance 
that  there  is  no  editing  or  abridg- 
ment as  the  world's  greatest  music  is 
performed  by  the  world's  greatest 
artists  on  one  of  network  radio's 
longest  continuous  programs.  Among 
these  performers  at  Carnegie  Hall, 
there  is  no  temperament.  "We  pre- 
sume that  the  artists  who  are  our 
guests  do  not  have  inadequacies," 
says  producer  Wallace  Magill,<  "and 
everyone  respects  Don  Voorhees."  .  .  . 
The  presumption'  is  valid.  In  sixteen 
years  of  Monday  night  broadcasts, 
the  Telephone  Hour  has  rostered  the 


great  names  in  the  musical  world. 
Fritz  Kreisler,  a  long-time  hold- 
out" against  radio,  made  his  broad- 
cast debut  on  Telephone  Hour,  as  did 
Ferruccio  Tagliavini  and  Renata  Te- 
baldi.  Jascha  Heifetz,  Marian  Ander- 
son, Ezio  Pinza  and  others  of  their 
stature  have  appeared  on  the  pro- 
gram many  times.  .  .  .  Actually,  the 
program  is  a  matter  of  definition. 
Superlatives  come  automatically,  but 
when  someone  suggested  that  it  might 
be  categorized  as  "a  classical  music 
program,"  Donald  Voorhees,  conduc- 
tor of  the  Bell  Telephone  Orchestra, 
pronounced  an  emphatic  no.  Rather, 
he  says,  the  program  presents  the 
great  classics  of  music — music  that 
has  a  meaning  for  people,  whatever 
its    origin,     whoever    its     composer. 


Teleiihnnr  Hour  in  broadcast  "live"  hom  Carnegie  Hall  over  NBC  Radio,  Monday  at  9  P.M.  EDT. 


In  a  program  that  is  your  front-row  seat  at  Carnegie  Hall,  the  world's 


An  orchestra  must  play  as  a  single  and  sensitive  instrument . . .  more  than  half  of  the  Bell  Telephone  Orchestra  were  at  its  debut. 


greatest  artists  present  "music  that  has  a  meaning" 


Continued 


Rehearsals  are  low-keyed,  standdrds  are  high  for  Don  Voorhees,  producer  Wally  Magill  and  soloists  such  as  Eileen  Farrell. 


WHO'S  WHO   ON 

Telephone  Hour 


(Continued) 


Donald  Voorhees 


Conductor  Donald  Voorhees  spreads  his  net  to 
catch  all  manner  of  musical  fish.  Audience- 
wise,  says  Don:  "We  temper  and  balance  the  pro- 
gram to  appeal  to  serious  music  lovers  and  also  hold 
the  attention  of  people  who  haven't  too  much  back- 
ground in  classics."  Artist-wise,  Don  has  bagged 
some  whoppers — most  notably,  Fritz  Kreisler.  .  .  . 
With  superb  musicianship,  taste  and  judgment, 
Don  has  presided  over  the  Telephone  Hour  ever 
since  its  first  broadcast  in  1940,  and  thirty-seven  of 
the  original  fifty- seven  man  orchestra  are  still. with 
him.  For  young  Telephone  Hour  "finds"  or  world- 
famed  stars,  Don  is  the  ideal  accompanist.  .  .  . 
Born  in  Allentown,  Pennsylvania,  Don  began  his 
music  lessons  at  the  age  of  five.  At  eleven,  he  was 
organist  and  choirmaster  of  his  church  and,  four 


Eileen  Farrell 

Eileen  Farrell  made  her  radio  debut  as  the  voice 
of  Rosa  Ponselle  on  March  Of  Time.  She  made 
her  movie  debut  in  "Interrupted  Melody,"  as  the 
voice  of  Marjorie  Lawrence.  "I  didn't  get  a  credit," 
she  grins,  "but  I  did  get  a  mink  coat."  .  .  .  Mostly, 
Eileen  is  herself,  the  artless,  easygoing,  stylishly- 
stout  daughter  of  vaudeville's  Singing  O'Farrells. 
What  the  Palace  was  to  her  parents,  Carnegie  Hall 
is  to  Eileen — and  she's  sung  there  seventeen  times 
on  Telephone  Hour  alone.  While  critics  fumble 
for  superlatives  for  her  rich,  wide-ranging  soprano, 
Eileen  is  matter-of-fact  about  her  singing.  "I  just 
open  my  big  mouth,"  she  says,  "and  let  it  rip."  .  .  . 
Eileen  is  a  hard-working,  disciplined  professional 
who  can  wake  up  in  the  morning  and  hit  a  high 
"C"  right  off.  When  not  on  concert  tours,  she 
wakes  up  in  Staten  Island,  a  ferry-ride  from  Man- 
hattan, where  she  and  her  policeman-husband, 
Robert  Vincent  Reagan,  are  raising  two  children 
and  two  boxer  dogs.  Robert,  Jr.,  nine,  is  occasion- 
ally proud  of  his  mother.  Daughter  Kathleen, 
three,  refuses  to  listen.  ...  While  she  waits  for 
Kathy  to  grow  up  and  approve  of  her,  Eileen  is  de- 
veloping an  interest  in  opera  and  will  sing  "II  Trov- 
atore"  in  San  Francisco  this  fall.  At  first,  she  was 
afraid  of  opera,  but  her  philosophy  came  to  her 
rescue.  "You  can  do  anything — providing  it's  in 
your  range."  Eileen's  even  overcome  the  problem 
of  memorizing  scores.  "I  turn  pages  in  my  mind.  If 
one  of  them  sticks,"  she  grins,  "I'll  be  in  trouble." 


years  later,  he  led  both  the  Lyric  Theater  pit  or- 
chestra and  his  own  dance  band.  At  seventeen,  he 
was  the  youngest  conductor  on  Broadway.  Late  in 
1924,  he  became  musical  director  for  the  first  net- 
work radio  musical  program.  ...  A  musician's 
musician,  Don  and  his  wife  Marion  live  in  Manhat- 
tan in  a  duplex  maisonette.  A  twin-level  apartment 
with  its  own  entrance,  it  gives  him  some  of  the  feel- 
ing of  an  actual  house  of  his  own.  He  has  a  mar- 
ried daughter  and  a  son  who  is  entering  medical 
school.  Don  used  to  raise  Scotch  terriers  and  is  also 
a  connoisseur  of  horseflesh.  .  .  .  Literally,  Don  is  a 
long-hair  and  it  may  fall  over  his  eyes  as  he  mo- 
tions for  more  fortissimo  from  the  brass.  Asked  if 
he  isn't  a  bit  nervous  before  a  broadcast,  Don  Voor- 
hees answers  blandly,  "Why?     Should  I  be?" 


62 


Barbara  Gibson 

Coloratura  Barbara  Gibson  wanted  to  be  an  en- 
gineer like  her  father.  Instead,  she  took  after 
her  mother,  was  singing  in  high- school  operettas 
when  the  well-known  coach,  Cesare  Sturani,  urged 
her  to  study  seriously.  Two  years  later,  she  made 
her  radio  debut,  at  the  age  of  twenty,  on  Telephone 
Hour.  She  will  make  her  sixteenth  appearance  on 
September  17.  Tall  and  slim,  she's  married  to 
Samuel  Williams.  Their  daughter  debuted  this  July. 


Grant  Johannesen 

Born  and  raised  in  Salt  Lake  City,  pianist  Grant 
Johannesen  began  as  a  mimic.  His  subject: 
The  piano  teacher  around  the  corner.  By  the  time 
he  was  eight,  Grant  was  composing  songs  and  stag- 
ing neighborhood  theatricals.  Later,  he  studied  with 
Robert  Casadesus,  another  Telephone  Hour  artist. 
Grant's  September  24th  appearance  follows  a  con- 
cert tour  of  Europe.  He  solos  on  both  sides  of  the 
pond,  goes  home  to  Salt  Lake  City — and  son  David. 


B 


Michael  Rabin 

y  the  time  violinist  Michael  Rabin  made  his 
)  Telephone  Hour  debut  at  the  age  of  fourteen, 
his  career  was  already  two  years  old  and  he  was 
on  record  with  a  number  of  difficult  and  exciting 
Paganini  Caprices.  Since  then,  he  has  concertized 
on  three  continents.  On  September  10th,  Michael, 
now  twenty,  makes  his  eighteenth  appearance,  then 
will  tour  Europe.  Michael's  mother  is  a  pianist,  his 
dad  is  a  violinist  with  the  New  York  Philharmonic. 


Lorin  Hollander 

When  Lorin  Hollander  first  began  to  crawl,  the 
piano  was  his  prime  target.  By  the  time  he 
was  five,  he  was  picking  out  tunes  and  harmonies, 
and  his  father  Max,  assistant  concertmaster  of  the 
NBC  Symphony  under  Toscanini,  recognized  that 
his  middle  child  was  a  prodigy.  Warned  of  the 
sacrifices  a  musical  career  demands,  Lorin  simply 
chose  a  new  goal:  Carnegie  Hall.  September  3rd,  at 
age  twelve,  he  played  there  on   Telephone  Hour. 


63 


perfect    audience    when    she's  studying  her  lines  as  Carol  in  Love  0}  Life. 


By  MARY  TEMPLE 


No  one  could  persuade  nine-year-old  Tirrell  Bar- 
bery— who  plays  Carol  on  Love  Of  Life — or  her 
brother  Chris,  or  their  mother  and  father,  that  the 
unexpected  things  which  happen  in  people's  lives 
aren't  often  the  most  exciting  and  the  most  wonderful 
of  all.  Sometimes  they  begin  as  small  incidents  .  .  . 
such  as  the  way  Tirrell  became  a  television  actress 
at  seven.  Sometimes  they  begin  with  what  seem  like 
difficult  problems  .  .  .  such  as  the  time  the  Barberys 


had  to  move  from  Massachusetts  to  Mrs.   Barbery's 
•  childhood  home  in  New  Jersey,  shortly  before  Tirrell 
was  born. 

To  start  with  the  way  Tirrell  became  an  actress: 
Two  years  ago,  she  went  to  a  television  rehearsal  with 
her  mother  one  day.  Brother  Chris,  now  fourteen,  was 
appearing  in  a  Kraft  Theater  show,  and  Mrs.  Barbery 
had  brought  Tirrell  along  to  watch.  Chris  had  been 
an  actor  since  before  his  sixth  birthday,  and  everybody 


64 


At  nine,  Tirrell  Barbery 

has  only  one  wish— that  Carol 

can  be  as  happy  as 

she  herself  has  always  been 


Brother  Chris  collects  bus  models  and  is  a  Little 
League  baseball  champ.  Chris  was  the  first  actor  in 
the  family — their  father's  an   electronics  engineer. 


Two  talented  young  people,  two  mighty  proud  parents. 
Tirrell  got  into  TV,  visiting  Chris  on  the  set — but  she 
still   has  time   today  for  little-girl   chores   around   home. 


See  Next  Page  t 


65 


"Rusty"   can   count  on  the   best  of  care   from   Tirrell 
Barbery,  who  loves  animals — but  not  people  who  hunt. 


(Continued) 


in  the  family  was  used  to  it,  but  nobody  dreamed  that 
Tirrell  had  any  ideas  about  acting  .  .  .  until  the  director, 
Maury  Holland,  suddenly  turned  to  her  mother  that 
day  and  said,  "We're  still  looking  for  a  few  little  girls 
for  some  parts  in  this  show.  Have  you  thought  about 
Tirrell  being  on  television,  Mrs.  Barbery?" 

Elizabeth  Barbery  looked  down  at  her  quiet,  self- 
effacing  daughter,  at  the  long,  light  auburn  pigtails,  the 
hazel  eyes,  set  in  a  slim,  sober  little  face.  There  was 
not  a  trace  of  theatrical  mannerism  about  Tirrell.  Just 
a  typical  little  schoolgirl  dressed  in  simple  schoolgirl 
clothes.  Mrs.  Barbery  was  probably  comparing  Tirrell 
in  her  mind  with  all  the  be-ribboned  and  be-ruffled 
and  cute,  curly-haired  little  professional  charmers  she 
had  ever  encountered  on  television  stages  in  the  course 
of  waiting  for  Chris.  She  was  undoubtedly  thinking  of 
how  little  like  an  actress  her  child  looked  at  that 
moment.  Besides,  Tirrell  had  never  shown  any  interest 
in  acting. 

"I  don't  think  Tirrell  wants  to  be  an  actress,"  she 
told  Mr.  Holland,  quite  definitely. 

"I  certainly  do  want  to  be  an  actress,  Mommy," 
Tirrell  spoke  up — in  a  soft  little  voice,  but  with 
conviction. 

"You  do?  Well,  then,  Mr.  Holland,  I  don't  see  why 
she  shouldn't  try  it." 

So  the  little  girl  was  given  some  lines,  which  she 
learned  with  ease.  She  was  well  behaved  and  adult  in 
adapting  herself  to  direction,  as  Chris  had  always 
been,  and  she  made  her  debut  in  Kraft's  "The  Delicate 
Story,"  loving  every  minute   (Continued  on  page  94) 

Tirrell  is  Carol  in  Love  0}  Life,  CBS-TV,  M-F,  12:15  P.M.  EDT, 
for  Whitehall  Pharmacal  Co.,  Boyle-Midway,  Inc.,  Chef  BoyArDee. 


Tirrell's  a   good   cook,   like   her   mother.   Chris   is   like   his  engineer-dad,  willingly  over- 
hauls the  miniature  pool  Mr.  Barbery  built  for  his  children,  their  cousins  and  neighbors. 


66 


Small  Town  Girl 


(Continued  from  page  53) 
business.  He  was  a  quiet  man,  however, 
so  he  took  her  hand  and  all  he  said  was: 
"Just  don't  get  hurt.  .  .  ." 

She  was  born  in  Swarthmore,  a  little 
town  just  outside  Philadelphia,  on  Janu- 
ary 28,  1929.  She  was  named  Dorothy 
Bell,  Jr.,  after  her  mother,  just  as  her 
brother  was  named  Harry  Bell,  Jr.,  after 
his  father.  Mr.  Bell,  Sr.,  was  a  sales 
engineer  who  had  once  "turned  down  the 
chance  to  train  for  the  Metropolitan  Opera 
Company."  He  was  seldom  at  home,  since 
his  job  kept  him  traveling  all  over  the 
country,  and  it  was  Mrs.  Bell  who  raised 
their  two  children.  "I  got  my  voice  from 
my  father,"  Dorothy  says,  "but  my  mother 
gave  me  everything  else." 

She  was  four  when  the  family  moved 
to  Glen  Ridge,  New  Jersey.  She  was  six 
when  her  parents  separated.  Shortly  after- 
ward, Mrs.  Bell  became  ill,  so  Dorothy 
went  to  live  with  her  grandparents,  Frank 
and  Florence  McDonald  of  Carnegie, 
Pennsylvania — "the  only  real  home  I  ever 
knew,"  she  recalls.  "Some  day,  I  hope 
to  return  there  to  live.  When  I'm  in  Car- 
negie, it  gives  me  the  feeling  of  belonging 
somewhere." 

In  May  of  her  freshman  year  at  high 
school,  Dorothy  left  her  grandparents' 
home  to  live  with  her  mother  and  brother 
in  Hanover  Four  Corners,  Massachusetts. 
This  was  Mrs.  Bell's  "last-ditch  attempt" 
to  set  up  a  home  for  all  the  family.  Her 
husband,  while  he  was  always  traveling 
about  the  country,  traveled  in  and  out 
of  Boston  most  of  all.  Hanover  Four 
Corners  was  only  thirty  miles  away,  and 
it  was  an  inexpensive  place  to  live. 

"She  found  a  lovely  old  home,"  Dorothy 
recalls,    "built    in    the    late    sixteen    hun- 


dreds— and  a  prize  example  of  such.  Once 
each  year,  the  Daughters  of  the  American 
Revolution  used  to  make  a  pilgrimage  so 
they  could  look  at  the  wallpaper,  which 
was  brought  over  from   England." 

Much  as  Mrs.  Bell  appreciated  the  his- 
torical value  of  her  home,  she  was  more 
interested  in  its  economy.  Rent  was  only 
thirty  dollars  a  month.  As  it  turned  out, 
however,  her  attempt  to  bring  her  family 
together  failed.  "While  they  have  always 
been  good  friends" — she  and  her  husband 
were   divorced  in   1944. 

Dorothy  continued  her  education  at 
Hanover  High  School,  a  mile-and-a-half 
from  her  home.  After  school,  she  did 
housework  for  a  nearby  neighbor.  They 
were  English,  and  it  was  Dorothy's  job  to 
serve  "high  tea,"  clean  up  afterward,  and 
take  care  of  the  baby.  One  night  each 
week,  she  was  on  duty  as  a  baby-sitter. 
For  all  this,  she  received  two  dollars  a 
week,  and  she  couldn't  have  been  more 
grateful.  It  wasn't  just  that  the  Bells 
needed  the  money.  It  was  because  there 
was  nothing  else  for  a  young  girl  to  do 
in  Hanover  Four  Corners. 

"It's  such  a  tiny  town,  it  doesn't  even 
have  a  movie — just  a  post  office,  a  drug 
store,  and  a  general  store."  Dorothy  can 
tell  you  what  it's  like,  but  she  can't 
describe  what  it  feels  like  to  the  young  and 
eager  in  a  town  that  size,  wondering  how 
you'll  ever  get  ahead,  reading  magazines 
of  the  outside  world — and  writing  to  Kate 
Smith  asking  her  how  she  felt  about  sing- 
ing popular  music. 

Even  in  those  days,  Dorothy  wanted  to 
be  a  singer,  and  couldn't  make  up  her 
mind  whether  to  concentrate  on  classical 
or  popular  music.  "You  see,"  she  explains, 
"I'm    a    'churkendoose.'  "  And,    when   you 


beg  her  pardon,  she  explains  that  a  churk- 
endoose is  "an  animal  that  didn't  know 
what  it  was — a  chicken,  turkey,  duck  or 
goose."  It's  from  a  children's  song  re- 
corded by  Frank  Luther. 

As  a  churkendoose-type  singer,  Doro- 
thy has  a  lyric-soprano  range  (three 
octaves)  but  a  contralto  quality.  "And, 
while  everyone  said  I  had  a  classical 
voice,"  she  points  out,  "I  happen  to  like 
popular  music."  However,  that  didn't 
stop  her  from  singing  in  the  St.  Andrews 
Episcopal  Church  Choir.  The  pastor's 
wife,  who  had  been  a  concert  singer  her- 
self, thought  Dorothy  had  an  unusual 
talent  and  encouraged  her  to  enter  a 
competition  sponsored  by  the  Choral 
Groups  in  the  Hanover  area. 

"I  never  expected  to  win,"  Dorothy 
recalls.  "I  had  no  formal  training.  And — 
to  make  matters  worse — the  night  of  the 
competition,  I  had  a  cold.  But  I  drank 
pineapple  juice  by  the  gallon,  and  then — 
the  nerve! — I  sang  'The  Lass  with  the 
Delicate  Air.' "  But  she  won  first  prize, 
which  consisted  of  a  hundred-dollar 
scholarship  to  study  music.  Dorothy 
used  it  to  take  lessons  from  Arthur  Wil- 
son, a  vocal  teacher  in  Boston.  Every 
Saturday,  she  would  get  a  free  ride  with  a 
neighbor  who  drove  her  the  sixty  miles 
to  and  from  her  lesson.  .  .  .  But  the 
scholarship  soon  ran  out. 

"Funds  were  low  during  this  period," 
Dorothy  remembers.  "We  would  some- 
times have  to  resort  to  a  bone  with  a 
few  vegetables  for  soup,  and  that  was  it! 
And  it's  a  good  thing  it  was  'fashionable' 
to  eat  beans  on  Saturday  night." 

Her  teacher  stopped  charging  her  for 
lessons,  but  Dorothy  still  had  to  pay 
the    accompanist.    That    was    when    Mr. 


lipstick  by 


The  exciting  new  LIVING  COLOR  PINK 
that's  the  talk  of  the  town! 


Copyright  1956,  George  W.  luft  Co.  Inc 


Other  Living  Color  Lipsticks  by  Tangee 
in  four  popular  priced  sizes 

PINK  QUEEN  •  RHAPSODY  IN  PINK  •  GAY  RED 

MEDIUM  RED  •  PRETTY  PLEASE  •  RED  MAJESTY 

RED  RED  •  BRIGHT  'N  CLEAR  •  THEATRICAL  RED 

NATURAL 

Available  in  Canada  of  slighfly  higher  prices 


T 
V 
R 

67 


it's 

f    FLAME-GLO 
Kissable  Look" 

for  exciting 


ONLY 


39* 


LIQUID  MAKE-UP 

CHARM  ROS* 


Everybody's  talking  about  Flame-Glo's 

KISSABLE  LOOK  ...  the  exciting  liquid 

make-up  that  stays  youthful  and  silken 

smooth.  No  oily  shine,  no  streaks, 

no  drying!  Fortified  with  rich  lanolin 

for  extra  softness,  extra  smoothness 

that  lasts  many  hours  longer! 

This  new  Flame-Glo  make-up  discovery 

helps  your  complexion,  protects  skin 

from  dryness,  conceals  blemishes.  It's 

flower-fresh  all  day  long,  with  a 

radiant  silken  texture  men  adore. 

In  unbreakable  squeeze  bottle, 

so  easy  to  apply . . .  won't  spill.  Use  as 

a  foundation  or  instead  of  loose 

powder.  Heavenly  shades,  too! 


i  / 


FLAME-GLO 


T 
¥ 
R 

68 


LIQUID    MAKE-UP 


§  MONEY-BACK  GUARANTEE 

>■=  Flame-Glo  is  positively  guaranteed  lo  be  as 

}g  fine  quality  os  any  liqjjid  make-up  regordless 

S  °'  Pr'ce  ■   -   -  or  money  cheerfully  refunded. 

:g  REJUVIA  BEAUTY  LABS.,  555  B'WAY,  N.Y.  12 


GET  HAME-GtO  AT  POPUtAR- PRICED 
COSMETIC  COUNTERS 


Wilson  started  finding  her  odd  jobs  to 
do — mostly  housework — such  as  washing 
walls  and  polishing  silver.  And  so,  for  the 
last  two  years  of  high  school,  Dorothy 
studied  voice  once  a  week.  It  was  her 
first  formal  voice  training,  and  it  paved 
the  way  for  her  winning  another  com- 
petition. 

She  was  fifteen  when  she  went  to  Syra- 
cuse University,  competing  with  two  hun- 
dred other  high-school  graduates  for  a 
four-year  scholarship.  Judged  on  the  basis 
of  scholarship  and  musical  performance, 
Dorothy  was  one  of  the  four  winners.  But 
she  was  only  to  remain  at  Syracuse  one 
year,  as  it  turned  out.  "Most  of  the 
students  there  were  from  New  York," 
she  explains.  "Either  they  had  profes- 
sional training,  or  they  had  attended  the 
High  School  of  Performing  Arts.  I  didn't 
have  their  mechanical  training,  and 
found   it   difficult  to   compete." 

Besides,  something  had  happened  to 
make  Dorothy  realize  that  she  didn't  want 
to  be  an  opera  and  concert  singer.  A 
sorority  sister  had  laryngitis  and  asked 
Dorothy  to  take  over  her  radio  program 
on  Station  WAGE.  It  was  an  hour  show, 
five  mornings  a  week.  Dorothy  was  on 
three  weeks — just  long  enough  to  get  the 
taste.  She  knew  then  that  this  was  the 
kind  of  music  she  wanted  to  sing.  Popular 
music.  "It's  nice  to  have  classical  training 
for  breath  control,"  she  says,  "but  vocal 
gymnastics  are  not  for  me." 

However,  being  a  successful  popular 
singer  is  a  gamble.  Economic  necessity 
made  Dorothy  think  of  some  steady  way 
to  make  a  living.  And,  since  she  loved 
children,  the  answer  was  simple.  She 
would  be  a  schoolteacher.  But,  first,  she 
would  have  to  earn  enough  money  to  go 
to  a  teachers'  college.  Ironically  enough, 
she  was  to  do  that  by  her  singing. 

"When  I  left  Syracuse,"  she  recalls, 
"my  brother  had  joined  the  Navy,  so  my 
mother  and  I  came  to  New  York.  I  used  to 
make  the  rounds  of  the  publishers  for 
free  copies  of  their  music.  That  was  how 
I  met  Leo  Diston,  of  Chappell  Music 
Publishers.  Leo  is  one  of  the  people  who 
have  helped  me  most.  He  heard  of  a 
job,  singing  with  a  small  band  at  the 
Albion  Hotel  in  Asbury  Park,  New  Jersey. 
He  telephoned  one  day  at  twelve -thirty 
and  asked  if  I  could  be  ready  to  leave  by 
four  that  afternoon.  The  job  paid  fifty  - 
a-week  and  room — so  I  was  packed  and 
ready.  I  didn't  have  an  evening  dress,  but 
I  borrowed  one  from  a  cousin  who  hap- 
pens to  be  half  my  size.  I  sang  with  that 
band  for  three  months,  until  June.  Then 
we  were,  quote,  let  go,  unquote." 

Returning  to  New  York,  she  went  out 
with  her  brother  and  some  of  his  friends 
from  the  Navy  one  night  when  they  were 
"doing  the  Village."  In  one  of  the  night 
clubs,  her  brother  spoke  to  the  emcee  of 
the  floor  show,  who  then  asked  Dorothy 
if  she'd  get  up  and  sing  a  song.  She  did 
— "on  sheer  nerve"- — and  the  owner  came 
over  and  offered  her  a  job.  Like  her  first 
singing  job,  this  one  also  paid  fifty  a  week. 
So  did  the  next  one,  at  the  Village 
Corners — just  around  the  corner  from 
where  she  and  her  mother  lived.  Still  an- 
other singing  job  at  the  Torch  Room.  .  .  . 
and,  by  January,  1948,  she  had  enough 
money  to  go  to  college. 

She  chose  the  State  Teachers'  College 
at  New  Paltz,  New  York,  after  visiting 
her  mother  there.  Mrs.  Bell  had  gotten  a 
job  as  manager  of  the  college's  freshman 
dormitory — a  position  she  still  holds. 
Dorothy,  in  addition  to  studying  to  be  an 
elementary- schoolteacher,  had  her  own 
program  of  folk  music  on  Radio  Station 
WEOK  in  nearby  Poughkeepsie,  New 
York.  She  was  graduated  in  1951 — but  not 
as  Dorothy  Bell.  She  had  suddenly  be- 
come Mrs.  Dorothy  Olsen. 

"During  the  last  six  months  of  college," 


she  explains,  "I  needed  a  little  extra 
money,  so  I  got  a  job  singing  in  the  Five 
Oaks  Restaurant  in  Greenwich  Village. 
One  night,  some  friends  brought  in 
Arthur  Olsen  to  meet  me.  They  thought 
we  would  make  a  good  couple." 

Arti — as  she  calls  him,  spelling  it  as 
they  do  in  his  native  Norway — had  once 
been  a  whaler.  During  World  War  II, 
however,  he  joined  the  Norwegian  Mer- 
chant Marine.  His  frequent  trips  to  the 
United  States  made  him  decide  to  settle 
here  after  the  war.  Seven  years  ago,  he 
became  a  scallop  fisherman — a  regular 
member  of  the  crew  of  the  fishing  boat 
Miriam  A.  It  was  on  November  18,  1950, 
that  his  friends  took  him  to  the  Five  Oaks 
Restaurant. 

"We  met,"  Dorothy  recalls.  "That  was  it. 
We  knew  we  were  going  to  get  married." 
Ask  her  how  she  knew — and  she  says, 
"He  was  holding  a  cocker  spaniel  in  his 
lap."  Ask  her  how  he  happened  to  be 
holding  a  dog  on  his  lap — in  a  night  club 
—and  she  says,  "That's  Arti." 

"But  his  eyes  looked  like  the  spaniel's," 
she  continues.  "No,  you  better  not  re- 
peat that.  People  might  not  understand." 
But  anyone  who  has  ever  looked  into  the 
calm,  clear  eyes  of  a  cocker  spaniel  knows 
exactly  what  she  means.  It's  a  high  com- 
pliment. "He  didn't  talk  much.  But,  when 
he  took  my  hand,  I  felt  safe  and  secure.  I 
had  had  nothing  but  hard  luck  before. 
And,  looking  into  his  eyes,  I  knew  they 
weren't  hiding  anything.  He  was  straight- 
forward. That  was  the  quality  that  at- 
tracted me  most." 

On  December  24,  little  over  a  month 
later,  they  were  married.  "I  was  lonely," 
Dorothy  points  out.  "He  looked  like  a 
'loner,'  too.  And,  although  we  had  known 
each  other  only  a  short  time.  ...  if  two 
people  want  the  same  things  of  marriage 
— as  we  do — I  think  it  has  a  good  chance 
of  success." 

If  Dorothy  had  "had  nothing  but  hard 
luck  before"  her  marriage,  however,  she 
was  to  have  still  more  after.  As  a  scallop 
fisherman,  Arti's  living  is  always  uncer- 
tain. "It's  like  the  whalers,"  she  explains. 
"It's  an  auction  thing,  with  the  crew 
splitting  the  profits.  Sometimes  the  price 
of  fish  is  up,  sometimes  it's  down."  And 
while  the  Miriam  A.  normally  spends  ten 
days  at  sea  and  three  ashore — "if  there's 
a  storm,  they  don't  go  out  at  all."  He 
could  have  returned  to  the  more  regular 
life  of  the  Merchant  Marine,  but  Dorothy 
doesn't  want  "a  husband  who's  gone  six 
months  at  a  time.  .  .  .  it's  bad  enough 
when  he's  gone  just  ten  days." 

It  was  shortly  after  their  marriage  that 
Arti  was  thrown  during  a  hurricane  at 
sea  and  injured  his  back.  He  was  unable 
to  work  for  the  next  four  months.  Dorothy 
was  teaching  the  second  grade  at  the 
Hillburn  School  in  Suffern,  New  York, 
"because  it  was  the  first  job  I  could  get." 
She  was  making  only  $2400  a  year,  how- 
ever, and  the  Olsens  found  themselves 
living  from  hand-to-mouth.  During  this 
period,  there  was  sometimes  not  quite 
enough  to  eat.  "At  one  time,"  Dorothy 
recalls,  "there  were  only  some  split  peas 
and  pancake  flour  in  the  house."  Arti — 
an  excellent  cook,  given  the  proper  in- 
gredients— managed  to  make  some  soup 
and  pancakes.  This  was  all  they  had  to 
live  on  for  a  while. 

After  six  months  at  Suffern — which  was 
"too  far  from  New  York"— Dorothy  got 
a  job  teaching  at  a  private  school  in  Man- 
hattan. Three  years  later,  she  became  a 
fourth-grade  teacher  at  the  Battle  Hill 
School  in  hear-by  White  Plains,  driving 
to  and  from  work  in  a  1949  yellow  Ply- 
mouth convertible.  Her  pupils  christened 
the  car  "Angel,"  because  it  "brings  her  to 
school  without  any  trouble."  Dorothy 
still  drives  it.  .  .  .  and,  after  162,000  miles, 
it  still  flies  like  an  angel. 


She  taught  at  White  Plains  for  a  year 
and  a  half,  and  then  it  all  happened — the 
first  week  before  Thanksgiving.  The  only 
reason  the  Olsens  happened  to  be  in  a 
CBS-TV  studio,  watching  Name  That 
Tune,  was  because  they  didn't  own  a 
television  set.  Dorothy  was  selected  from 
the  audience  to  be  a  contestant.  She  won 
top  prize,  and  so — according  to  the  rules 
— she  returned  next  week  with  a  partner. 
She  and  Philip  Bock,  who  flew  in  from 
Chicago  to  team  up  with  her,  were  on 
the  program  for  the  next  five  weeks,  win- 
ning five  thousand  dollars  on  each  ap- 
pearance .  .  .  totaling  up  to  the  top  prize 
of  twenty-five  thousand  dollars  to  split 
between  them. 

The  first  week,  George  de  Witt,  the 
show's  emcee,  asked  Dorothy  to  sing  one 
of  the  songs  she  sang  in  her  classroom. 
She  obliged  with  the  first  verse  of  "The 
Little  White  Duck."  There  was  such  a 
response  from  viewers  all  over  the 
country  that,  the  second  week,  she  was 
asked  to  sing  the  second  verse.  By  this 
time,  the  publisher  of  the  song  brought 
it  to  the  attention  of  Steve  Shole  of  RCA 
Victor,  who  offered  Dorothy  a  contract 
to  make  two  records  for  them.  Her  record- 
ing of  "The  Little  White  Duck"  quickly 
sold   over  150,000   copies. 

"It's  for  children,"  she  says,  "and  for 
the  child  in  all  grownups."  Her  second 
record,  however,  was  a  popular  record 
for  grownups  alone.  It  was  "I'll  Be  Wait- 
ing Up  For  You,"  which  Dorothy  de- 
scribes as  "a  good  record  to  relax  with." 
But  requests  kept  pouring  in  for  more 
children's  records.  RCA  Victor  extended 
her  contract  for  a  year. 

"In  the  meantime,  NBC  asked  me  to 
come  in,"  she  recalls.  "I  saw  three  execu- 
tives there  who  asked  me  if  I  were  in- 
terested in  making  guest  appearances  on 
radio  and  television.  They  mentioned  the 
Ernie  Kovacs  and  Perry  Como  shows." 
And  best  of  all,  they  offered  her  a  chance 
to  appear  on  Dr.  Frances  Horwich's  Ding- 
Dong  School.  Dorothy — who  had  received 
"so  many  letters  describing  the  need  for 
such  good  children's  shows  as  that  on 
television" — decided  to  try  it.  All  in  all, 
she  had  been  teaching  school  for  five 
years.  "Temporarily,"  she  says,  "I  left  the 
profession.  I  knew  I  could  always  go 
back."  Besides,  she  was  anxious  to  work 
with  the  beloved  "Miss  Frances."  She 
had  studied  under  her  during  the  summer 
of  1949,  when  Dr.  Horwich  taught  at  New 
Paltz. 

Last  March,  Dorothy  made  her  first 
appearance    on    the    prize-winning    chil- 


dren's show.  "I  was  very  nervous,"  she 
recalls.  "It  was  different  on  Name  That 
Tune,  where  the  audience  helps  to  carry 
you  along.  Besides,  my  own  students 
were  in  the  audience — three  bus-loads  full 
at  each  performance.  On  Ding  Dong 
School,  however,  there  was  no  audience — 
just  Miss  Frances,  the  studio  technicians, 
and  Arlo,  the  organist.  We  didn't  use  a 
script  or  anything.  We  just  talked — and 
who  can  be  more  tongue-tied  than  a  be- 
ginner in  front  of  a  camera?  That's  why 
I'm  so  very  grateful  to  Miss  Frances.  She 
was  so  warm  and  gracious,  she  carried  me 
through  that  first  show." 

She  carried  Dorothy  through  with 
honors,  for  her  former  pupil  has  been 
singing  on  the  show  frequently  ever  since. 
"Each  show  becomes  easier,"  Dorothy 
points  out,  "and  I  like  the  way  Miss 
Frances  conducts  it.  It  isn't  like  being 
in  a  television  studio.  You're  not  talking 
to  the  camera,  you're  talking  directly  to 
the  children  themselves.  In  one  show,  for 
example,  I  was  singing  'Peewee,  the  Kiwi,' 
and  came  to  the  part  where  I  had  to 
whistle.  I  couldn't — and  suddenly  I  began 
to  giggle,  because  I  knew  that's  what  the 
children  watching  me  were  doing." 

Her  appearances  on  Ding  Dong  School 
are  so  successful  that  people  have  writ- 
ten to  ask  if  she  is  going  to  have  a  show 
of  her  own.  "I  don't  want  to  be  that  im- 
portant," she  insists. 

For  the  first  time  in  her  life,  however, 
Dorothy  is  ambitious — for  now  she  has  a 
dream.  "I  want  to  make  enough  money 
for  Arti  to  have  his  own  fishing  boat," 
she  says.  "Boats  cost  eighty  thousand 
dollars — and  what  with  the  insurance  and 
everything,  you  need  about  a  hundred 
thousand  dollars  to  start!" 

According  to  her  brother  Harry,  who  is 
temporarily  serving  as  her  manager, 
Dorothy  will  get  her  boat — and  then  some. 
"He  gets  carried  away  sometimes,"  she 
confesses,  "and  that's  when  Arti  suddenly 
starts  looking  about  the  apartment.  'Gee,' 
he'll  say,  'these  floors  look  like  they  could 
use  a  good  scrubbing.' " 

He  doesn't  mean  it,  of  course.  It's  just 
his  way  of  saying  that  the  first  job  of  a 
wife  is  to  be  a  wife.  Perhaps  not  too 
surprisingly,  Dorothy  agrees  with  him. 
And  Arti  has  no  need  to  worry  about  her. 
She  won't  get  hurt.  Nothing  that  happens 
in  show  business  can  ever  throw  her,  so 
long  as  there's  a  man  about  the  house — 
someone  who  loves  her  enough  to  remind 
her  that  the  floors  need  scrubbing.  .  .  . 
and  then,  of  course,  end  up  doing  them 
himself. 


Every  Woman 
Wants  My  Man- 

Why  do  so  many  marriages  go  on  the  rocks? 
What  makes  a  woman  covet  another's  hus- 
band? Why  do  married  men  "play  around"? 
These  are  some  of  the  questions  that  are  an- 
swered by  the  radio  program  "My  True  Story." 
And  they're  not  answers  that  are  born  in  a 
fiction  writer's  brain.  For  these  are  stories  of 
real  people — taken  right  from  the  files  of 
True  Story  Magazine.  They  make  exciting 
listening,  so  be  sure  to  hear  them. 

TUNE  m  EVERY  MORNING  TO 

MY  TRUE  STORY 

American  Broadcasting  Stations 

"The  flood  was  over  and  I  was  alive — but  death  and  tragedy  had  left  me  numb 
with  shock."  Read  "Flood"  in  October  TRUE  STORY  magazine — at  newsstands  now. 


it's 

FLAME-GLO 
"Color- Fresh 
Lips" 

for  lasting 


GOLDEN  SPIRAL 
SWIVEL  CASE 


ONIY 


Make  the  "Triple-Stay"  lip  test*  and 
you'll  prove  to  yourself  that  Flame-Glo 

( 1 )  Stays  satin  smooth  . . . 

(2 )  Stays  dewy-moist;  no  drying  ever  . . 

(3)  Stays  ever-brilliant! 
No  need  to  pay  a  dollar  or  more  to 
have  Color-Fresh  Lips  that  win 
admiration  wherever  you  go. 

Only  Flame-Glo  seals  vibrant,  flaming 
color  to  your  lips  with  Fastenol . . . 
the  exclusive  ingredient  keeps  you 
always  kissable,  always  alluring! 
Choose  your  favorite  from  Flame-Glo's 
8  exciting  shades  . . .  dashing  oranges, 
exotic  pinks  and  glamorous  reds. 
So  much  for  so  little  cost! 

1  "TRIPLE-STAY"  0  LIPSTICK 

150,  290  and  390  (slightly  more  In  Canada) 

g  •  MONEY-BACK   GUARANTEE  1 

■=     Flcme-Glo   is  positively  guoronteed  to  be  os  gj 

ffine  quolily  as  or>y  lipstick  regardless  of  price  3 

...  or  money  cheerfully  refunded.  |3  ,. 

-     PEJUVIA  BEAUTY  LABS  ,  555  B  WAY,  NY.    12  §T 

#!_:j.;..:;cc;;;..  ._  __._..  ...  : " ■CJQQvOppooopmoalf 

GET  FIAME-GLO  AT  POPULAR- PRICED 
COSMETIC    COUNTERS 


T 
V 
0 

69 


(Continued  from  page  31) 
apartment  (complete  with  two  fireplaces) 
in  one  of  the  charming  old  brownstones 
of  New  York's  smart  upper  East  Side, 
Claudia  and  her  husband,  Kenneth  Loane, 
revel  in  a  profusion  of  mementoes  of  their 
own  and  families'  pasts. 

"To  say  we  live  in  a  welter  of  antiques 
and  mementoes,"  smiles  Claudia,  "must 
make  us  sound  like  ghastly  bores  .  .  . 
which  I  honestly  don't  think  we  are.  We 
love  our  antiques  and  the  stories  behind 
them.  But,  unless  guests  evince  interest  in 
particular  pieces,  we're  careful  not  to  in- 
flict them  with  historical  data.  Woe  be  it, 
however,  to  the  unsuspecting  .  .  .  the  one 
who  asks  'What  is  that?'  or  'Where  did 
that  come  from?'  I'll  warn  you  ahead  of 
time,  Ken  and  I  are  both  great  story- 
tellers. You  may  have  to  stay  for  dinner!" 

And  great  story-tellers  they  really  are. 
An  intended  hour  spent  with  the  Loanes 
unexpectedly  turns  into  two  .  .  .  you're 
already  a  half-hour  late  for  your  own 
dinner  appointment — and  who  knows  how 
badly  you've  disrupted  their  plans  for 
the  evening?  They'd  never  let  you  know. 

It's  hard  to  disrupt  our  evening  plans 
during  the  week,"  Claudia  says  reassur- 
ingly. "It  may  come  as  a  surprise,  but  I 
didn't  marry  an  actor  ...  I  married  a 
man  in  the  real-estate  business.  Ken 
started  out  to  be  an  actor — is  a  graduate 
of  the  American  Academy  of  Dramatic 
Arts,  in  fact — but  later  switched  to  real 
estate.  So,  since  we  have  to  get  up  early 
in  the  morning  (I  insist  on  breakfasting 
with  my  businessman  husband) ,  we  get  to 
bed  early.  Therefore,  no  gadding  about 
and  late  hours  during  the  week. 

"You  know,  now  that  I  think  about  it,  I 
believe  this  is  probably  the  only  major 
adjustment  I've  had  to  make  as  a  result 
of  my  marriage  to  Ken.  Which  may  sound 
sort  of  strange — but,  you  see,  we've  known 
each  other  since  I  was  in  my  teens — and, 
long  before  we  were  married,  we  knew 
each  other's  faults,  good  points,  likes  and 
dislikes,  backwards  and  forwards.  Which 
makes  it  rather  nice,  since  neither  one  of 
us  can  possibly  have  any  complaints. 
But  until  I  married  Ken  on  Lincoln's 
Birthday,  1955,  I  had  been  accustomed  to 
actors'  hours  ...  up  late  at  both  ends 
of  the  day." 

For  entertainment  other  than  the 
theater,  Ken  and  Claudia  prefer  the  at- 
home  type  .  .  .  usually  small  groups  of 
friends  for  dinner.  "Usually  small  groups 
is  right,"  pops  in  Ken,  with  a  hearty  laugh 
as  an  exclamation  point.  "Get  Claudia  to 
tell  you  about  our  first  party,  though." 

"Oh  yes,  that!  Well,  the  truth  of  the 
matter  is  that  it  did  get  a  little  out  of 
hand.  But  first  let  me  describe  our  apart- 
ment ...  it  will  help  make  the  whole 
story  more  impossible.  The  apartment 
consists  of  a  more  or  less  normal-size 
living  room,  an  ample  bedroom,  small 
kitchen  and  foyer — and  the  tiniest  dining 
room  in  all  of  New  York,  I'm  sure.  .  .  . 
at  its  widest,  it's  seven  feet.  As  for  the 
normal-sized  living  room — by  the  time  it 
accommodates  our  antiques  and  my  grand 
piano  (which  is  another  story  I  must  tell 
you  later  on),  there's  not  a  great  deal  of 
extra  footage  left. 

"Well,  not  too  long  after  our  marriage, 

Ken  and  I  decided  to  give  a  party   .   .   . 

a  buffet  supper.  Ken  and  I  are  both  very 

lucky    insofar    as    we   have    many,    many 

dear    friends,    practically    all    of    whom 

have   been   our   mutual   friends   over   the 

course    of   years.      Not   having   any   idea 

T    where    we    could — or    even    wanted    to — 

v    draw    the    guest    line    at    our    wedding 

8     (which  took  place  right  here  in  the  apart- 

ment) ,  we  kept  it  down  to  families  and 


The  Right  to  Happiness 

a  handful  of  our  closest  friends.  There- 
fore, our  first  party  had  to  be  large.  Our 
intention  was  to  have  about  thirty  guests. 
But,  like  Topsy,  it  growed  and  growed 
and  growed  .  .  .  and,  before  we  knew  it, 
the  list  had  doubled  in  size.  When  I 
realized  what  we  had  done,  I  almost  had 
a  breakdown,  but  then  consoled  myself 
with  the  thought  that  probably  many 
wouldn't  show  up  .  .  .  theater  commit- 
ments and  the  like,  since  ninety  percent  of 
our  friends  are  in  the  profession. 

"But,  bless  their  hearts,  they  all  put  in 
at  least  a  brief  appearance.  The  buffet,  of 
course,  was  all  set  up  ahead  of  time  in  the 
dining  room,  and  the  liquid  refreshments 
were  stocked  up  in  the  kitchen,  which  is 
situated  between  the  living  room  and 
bedroom.  It  had  been  my  supposition 
that  the  crowd  would  spread  out  into  the 
two  main  rooms.  What  I  forgot  to  re- 
member was  the  fact  that  theater  people 
are  voluble  talkers  and  hate  to  get  out  of 
earshot  of  a  discussion.  So  the  thing  I 
hadn't  counted  on  happened  .  .  .  they  all 
took  up  sardine-like  positions  in  the  living 
room.  Nobody  in  the  bedroom! 

"Then  the  whole  affair  was  climaxed 
the  following  morning  by  Trouper,  our 
Schnauzer.  Trouper  is  really  a  well- 
trained  dog.  But  I  guess  the  party  was  too 
much  for  him,  too.  At  any  rate,  the  next 
morning,  there  were  the  remains  of  the 
buffet  still  on  the  table  (in  utter  ex- 
haustion Ken  and  I  had  collapsed  into 
bed  the  night  before  without  cleaning  up 
the  house)  ...  all,  that  is,  except  the  re- 
mains of  the  ham — which  was  on  the  floor 
beside  a  very  much  over-stuffed  dog  who 
landed  at  the  veterinarian's." 

opeaking  of  buffet  suppers  and  ham 
brought  up  the  question  of  whether 
Claudia  had  prepared  the  supper  .  .  .  was 
she  a  good  cook?  A  slow  grin  started 
spreading  over  Ken's  face,  but  he  ducked 
his  head  and  absorbed  himself  with  a 
miniature  radio  he  was  making  "fix-it- 
yourself"  passes  at.  Catching  the  grin, 
Claudia  burst  into  an  infectious  chuckle. 
"No,"  she  admited,  "I  don't,  suppose  it 
would  be  possible  to  say  that.  But  I'm 
improving  .  .  .  am  probably  a  little 
better  in  the  kitchen  now  than  Ken  is 
with  that  fix-it -yourself  idea. 

"Funny  thing,"  continued  Claudia, 
"until  I  married  Ken,  I  did  very  little 
cooking.  The  opportunity  or  necessity 
had  never  seemed  to  present  itself.  You 
see,  as  a  girl  I  spent  a  lot  of  time  on  the 
road  with  my  mother  and  father,  and  we 
ate  in  restaurants.  My  schooling  was  at 
boarding  schools,  and  after  that,  there 
always  seemed  to  be  a  cook  around. 

"But  Ken,  like  many  men,  particularly 
bachelors  ...  in  this  case  an  ex-bachelor, 
thank  heavens  ...  is  a  good  cook  and 
enjoys  it.  Slowly  but  surely,  and  with 
infinite  patience,  he's  teaching  me.  And 
do  you  know,  it's  really  fun!  I've 
progressed  to  the  point  where,  with  the 
exception  of  the  meat,  I  prepare  the 
whole  meal.  Ken  does  the  meat.  Maybe 
some  day  I'll  be  promoted  to  that  depart- 
ment. But  I'm  not  sure  I  really  want  to 
be  .  .  .  because  then  I'll  be  able  to  cook 
the  whole  meal  by  myself,  which  would 
mean  we  wouldn't  be  doing  it  together. 
And,  frankly,  it's  the  being  together — 
even  in  the  kitchen — I  most  enjoy.  So 
maybe  I'll  keep  flunking  the  meat  test." 

Assuring  Claudia  that  the  flunking  or 
passing  of  a  meat  test  was  not  going  to 
make  any  difference  in  their  being  to- 
gether, Ken  reminded  his  charming  wife 
that  she  had  promised  a  story  about  her 
grand  piano. 

"Of  the  many  things  my  mother  gave 
me   during   her   lifetime,   perhaps    one   of 


the  greatest  turned  out  to  be  that  piano 
in  the  corner  of  the  living  room.  At  least, 
it's  one  of  the  things  I'm  most  sentimental 
about.  When  I  was  five,  Mother  bought 
it  for  me.  Piano  lessons  were  no  great 
chore  for  me.  I  loved  it,  and  eventually 
became  a  fairly  proficient  pianist.  As  a 
family  who  loved  music,  we  had  many, 
many  happy  times  around  that  piano. 

"Oh  dear,  there  goes  my  yard-wide 
sentimental  streak  .  .  .  but  you  asked 
for  it!  Anyway,  when  Ken  and  I  took 
this  apartment  just  before  we  were 
married,  we  never  even  considered  the 
possibility  that  the  piano  might  not  fit 
until  a  friend,  a  pianist  herself,  threw  the 
bombshell  that  I  might  have  to  give  up 
the  piano.  Believe  me,  before  I  did  thai 
I'd  have  given  up  the  apartment  .  .  . 

"Ken,  considerably  calmer  by  natun 
than  I,  came  up  with  what  I  consider  a 
real  stroke  of  genius.  As  he  pointed  out, 
measuring  wouldn't  really  prove  any- 
thing .  .  .  you  had  to  be  able  to  see  how 
and  where  the  piano  might  fit.  So  we  sat 
down  and  scotch-taped  enough  newspaper 
together  to  be  able  to  draw  and  cut  out 
the  outline  of  the  grand  piano.  With  this 
accomplished,  we  set  out  .  .  .  under  sail, 
so  to  speak  ...  to  find  a  spot  or  bust.  I 
wish  you  could  have  seen  the  expressions 
of  the  painters  as  we  crawled  around  on 
hands  and  knees  with  our  piano  pattern. 
As  you  can  see,  we  won.  There's  the 
grand  in  the  corner,  extending  half  way 
into  the  center  of  the  room  .  .  .  and  the 
Loanes  are  two  who  don't  give  a  hoot  if 
decorators  faint  over  so  large  an  object  in 
a  smallish  room,  or  pianists  tell  you  that 
you  never  have  a  piano  located  in  such 
a  way  that  the  back  of  the  pianist  is  to  the 
audience.  We  have  the  piano,  and  that's 
all  that  matters. 

"Also,  I  suppose  all  those  'things'  on 
the  top  of  it  are  artistically  and  profes- 
sionally wrong.  But  they're  all  part  of  my 
memento  collection.  See  that  little  stove 
with  the  potted  plants  in  it?  That  was 
Uncle  Frank's  when  he  was  a  little  boy. 
The  tiny  iron  and  hot  water  kettle  are 
the  only  two  other  gadgets  that  are  left. 
I  can  remember  playing  with  it  when  I 
was  a  child. 

"And  this  walking  stick  belonged  to  my 
father.  It's  a  'good  luck'  stick  ...  all  those 
little  heads  and  figures  were  carved  by  an 
American  Indian.  Years  ago,  Edwin  For- 
rest gave  it  to  Dad  when  Dad  was  in  a 
show  out  West.  Dad  was  always  terribly 
sentimental  about  it. 


I  see  you've  spotted  the  collection  of 
spoons  on  the  dining  room  wall.  They 
were  Mother's.  She  collected  them  herself. 
See  the  one  with  the  windmill  at  the  top 
of  the  handle?  Believe  it  or  not,  that 
windmill  really  turns.  I've  been  told  the 
collection  is  unique  and  quite  valuable, 
but  that's  not  why  I've  kept  them.  I  can 
remember  when  Mother  acquired  many 
of  them  .  .  .  how  excited  she'd  be  over 
each  addition  to  the  collection. 

"And  did  you  see  the  lovely  rocking 
chair  in  the  bedroom?  That  belonged  to 
Ken's  mother.  We  like  the  delicate  if 
somewhat  faded  coloring  of  the  floral 
decoration.  Furthermore,  once  you  refinish 
a  piece,  it's  never  quite  the  same,  from  a 
sentimental  standpoint,  at  least. 

"Oh  my!  There  I  go  being  sentimental 
again  and  I  promised  I  wouldn't.  Well, 
when  you  come  to  visit  us  again,  I  promise 
to  behave  .  .  .  but  I  don't  suppose  I 
really  will  be  any  better,  will  I,  Ken? 
You  see,  I  can't  seem  to  help  talking 
about  the  things  and  people  I  love.  And 
when  you  catch  me  at  home,  you're  catch- 
ing me  in  the  midst  of  everything  I  love 
most." 


Can  I  Help  You? 


(Continued  from  page  8) 
Dear  Joan  Davis: 

We  have  a  daughter  of  twenty-three  who 
is  causing  us  great  heartache.  Her  emotional, 
headstrong  nature  has  already  caused  her  to 
make  one  mistake  and  now  I  see  another  one 
coming.  At  seventeen  she  married  against 
our  wishes.  Inside  of  a  year  she  had  the 
sense  to  see  that  the  boy  was  weak  and  un- 
stable. By  the  time  she  was  nineteen,  she 
was  divorced  and  we  thought  well  on  her 
way,  with  a  good  job,  to  a  good  life  of  her 
own.  We  were  disturbed  when  she  started 
going  out  with  a  much  older  man.  But  we  were 
not  too  upset  till  we  learned  this  man  is  mar- 
ried, the  father  of  two  children,  and  only  sepa- 
rated from  his  wife.  She  tells  me  the  man's  di- 
vorce is  only  a  matter  of  time,  but  this  has 
gone  on  for  over  a  year.  What  is  worse,  since  I 
have  repeatedly  tried  to  discuss  this  with  her, 
she  spends  hardly  any  time  at  home,  and  this 
man  meets  her,  instead  of  calling  for  her  at  our 
home.  It  is  all  very  well  for  my  husband  to 
say  she  must  live  her  own  life,  but  no  mother 
can  stand  by  and  see  her  child  heading  for 
tragedy  without  reaching  out  to  stop  her! 

Mrs.  F.  H.  L. 


But  you  know,  Mrs.  F.  H.  L.,  as  well  as  I 
do,  that  the  arms  you  reach  out  will  only 
push  your  daughter  further  from  you.  She 
is  a  grown  woman,  earning  her  own  living, 
with  a  mistake  behind  her  from  which  you 
apparently  do  feel  she  has  learned  some 
worthwhile  lessons.  The  chances  are  that 
you  have  identified  yourself  with  your 
daughter  to  the  point  of  believing  that  you 
understand  her  completely,  know  what  is 
best  for  her,  and  could  live  her  life  much 
better  than  she  is  doing  it.  Isn't  that  a  lit- 
tle presumptuous — and  aren't  you  fooling 
yourself? 

Certainly  there  are  drawbacks.  A  some- 
what older  man,  with  one  failure  behind  him 
and  family  responsibilities  curtailing  what- 
ever plans  he  wants  to  make  for  the  future, 
cannot  be  considered  an  ideal  mate  from  a 
mother's  point  of  view.  But  what  if  your 
daughter  knows,  or  even  thinks,  that  for  her 
this  man  is  worth  waiting  for?  Will  it  help 
in  any  way  if  you  drive  her  from  you  with 
constant  argument? 

If  there  were  any  question  of  this  man's 
sincerity — if  you  had  reason  to  suspect  that 
he  is  not  really  seeking  his  divorce — then 
there  might  be  other  steps  you  and  your  hus- 
band might  cautiously  take  to  determine  the 
truth.  But,  since  this  is  evidently  not  a 
possibility,  there  is  nothing  you  can  do  ex- 
cept what  we  always  stand  ready  to  do  for 
our  children  .  .  .  offer  love,  shelter  if  they 
need  it,  advice  if  they  ask  for  it,  a  respect 
for  them  as  individuals — and  keep  our  own 
desires,  demands  and  prejudices  from  in- 
fringing on  their  lives  to  the  point  where 
they  feel  they  must  repudiate  us  completely 
to  gain  the  freedom  that  is  their  right. 


Have  you  a  problem  you  can't  discuss  with 
anyone  close  to  you?  Why  not  write  to  Joan 
Davis  about  it?  No  letters  can  be  returned, 
and  no  personal  replies  can  be  given  by  mail, 
but  you  may  find  your  letter  among  those  she 
answers  in  this  column  every  month.  Address 
your  letters  to:  Joan  Davis,  TV  Radio  Mirror, 
Box  1719,  Grand  Central  Sta.,  N.Y.  17,  N.Y. 


OPPORTUNITIES 

for  EVERYBODY 

Publisher's  Classified  Department  (Trademark) 


for  clauifiad  advertising  ratn,  writ*  to  William  K.  Stewart,  9  South  Clinton  Street,  Chicago  6  (Wom^Od.)  6 


OF  INTEREST  TO  WOMEN 


WEDDING  INVITATIONS— 100  for  $8.50.  Outstanding  se- 
lection of  Plain  and  Fancy  Invitations,  gold  or  silver  decora- 
tions. Free  Catalog  of  unique  bridal  accessories.  Write  for  Free 
Samples.  Elaine  Creations,  Dept.  CP-10,  Box  824,  Chicago  42, 

Illinois. 

$350  FOR  YOUR  Child's  Photo  (all  ages).  Thousands  paid  by 
advertisers.  Send  one  small  picture.  Returned  with  judges'  re- 

Rort.  Print  child's  and  parent's  name  on  back.  Spotlite,  161 1-P10 
lo.  LaBrea,  Los  Angeles,  Calif- 


Angeles  28. 


WHOLESALE  CATALOG  I  30-80%  Discounts!  Appliances, 
Musical  Instruments,  Typewriters,  Tools,  Watches,  Jewelry, 
Cameras,  Housewares,  etc.  Consolidated  Distributors,  1300-28 

Main,  Clifton,  N.J. 

FREE— BIG  NEW  Wholesale  Catalog  I  Up  to  50%  saving  for 
you,  family,  friends  on  nationally-known  gifts,  jewelry,  toys, 
appliances.  Christmas  cards,  etc.  Also  make  money  selling 
part  time  I  Write:  Evergreen  Studio3,  Box  846-P,  Chicago  42,  III. 
COMPLETE  YOUR  HIGH  School  at  home  in  spare  time 
with  59-year-old  school.  Texts  furnished.  No  classes.  Diploma. 
Information    booklet  free.    American   School,    Dept.   X774, 

Drexel  at  58th,  Chicago  37,  Illinois. 

EARN  $70.00  WEEKLY  Preparing  our  Postcards  at  Home. 
Sparetime  Possible.  Outfit  $1 .00.  Fisher  Products,  Box  4044-B, 

San  Francisco,  Calif. 

WELL  PAYING  WORK— need  help  finding  it?  Join  our  group 
and  get  in  touch  with  genuine  self-employment  opportunities. 
Free  trial  details — write:  Maxwell,  Dept.  T2-9,  Wooster,  Ohio. 
$200  MONTHLY  POSSIBLE,  Sewing  Babywearl  No  house 
selling!  Send  stamped,.-  Jdressed  envelope.  Babywear,  Warsaw 

1,  Indiana. 

DRESSES  24c;  SHOES  39c;  Men's  suits  $4.95;  trousers 
$1.20.  Better  used  clothing.  Free  Catalog.  Transworld,  164-A 

Christopher,  Brooklyn  12,  N.Y. 

MAKE  MONEY  CLIPPING  Items  From  Your  Newspaper! 
Write,  Newscraft,  PW-983-E.  Main,  Columbus  5,  Ohio. 
EARN  SPARE  TIME  Cash  Mailing  advertising  Literature. 

Glenway,  Box  6568,  Cleveland  1,  Ohio. 

$30.00  WEEKLY  MAKING  Roses.  Look,  Smell  real.  Studio 
Company,  Greenville  12,  Pa. 

PROFITABLE  HOME  BUSINESS.  Make  Fast-Selling  che- 
nile  monkey  trees.  Literature  free.  Velva,  Bohemia  32,  N.Y. 
SEW  OUR  READY  cut  aprons  at  home,  spare  time.  Easy, 
Profitable.  Hanky  Aprons,  Ft.  Smith  3,  Ark. 

MONEY  MAKING  OPPORTUNITIES 

MAKE  MONEY  WRITING  Short  Paragraphsl  No  tedious 
study.  I  tell  you  what  to  write,  where  and  how  to  sell;  and 
supply  list  of  editors  buying  from  beginners.  M  any  small  checks 
add  up  quickly.  Write  to  sell,  right  away.  Send  for  free  facts. 

Benson  Barrett,  Dept.  C-134-X,  7464  Clark,  Chicago  26. 

GUARANTEED  HOMEWORKI  IMMEDIATE  Commis- 
sions!   Everything   Furnished!    Hirsch,   1301-12   Hoe  Ave., 

New  York  City  59. 

MAKE  YOUR  TYPEWRITER   Earn   Money.  Send  $1.00. 

Hughes,  7004  Diversey,  Chicago  35. 

$35  WEEKLY  PREPARING  envelopes.  Instructions  $1.  Re- 

fundable.  Adservice,  Spring  Valley  151,  New  York. 

MAKE  $100.00  WEEKLY  mailing  catalogs.  Write:  Products, 

2342S  Washington,  Chicago  12,  III. 

EXTRA  MONEY  PREPARING  Mailing  Postcards,  Gul,  1815 

Meyers,  Lombard,  Illinois. 

MAIL  CIRCULARS  $300  monthly  possible.  John  Hall,  509C 

Fifth  Ave.,  New  York  17,  N.Y. 

$25  WEEKLY  POSSIBLE,  sparetime,  preparing  advertising 

mailings  at  home.  Temple  Co.,  Muncie2,  Indiana. 

OPERATE  RESTAURANT  OR  diner.  Free  booklet  reveals 

plan.  Write  Restaurant  Arts,  MO-510,  Fremont,  Ohio. 

LADIES:   PROFITABLE   HOMEWORK  preparing   mailing 
postcards.  Alfred  Hasemann,  Beecher,  Illinois. 
LOANS  BY  MAIl 

BORROW  $50  to  $500.  Employed  men  and  women  over  25, 
eligible.  Confidential — no  co-signers — no  inquiries  of  employ- 
ers or  friends.  Repay  in  monthly  payments  to  fit  your  income. 
Supervised  by  State  of  Nebraska.  Loan  application  sent  free 
i  n  plain  envelope.  Give  occupation.  American  Loan  Plan, 
City  National  Bldg.,  Dept.  WD-10,  Omaha,  Nebraska. 

AVIATION 

AIRLINES  NEED  WOMENl  Prepare  for  exciting,  romantic 
job  as  hostess,  ticket  agent,  reservationist,  etc.  Good  pay, 
rapid  advancement,  travel,  adventure.  Free  placement  service. 
Complete  details  sent  Free.  Write  CWA,  919,  Hyde  Park  Bank 
Bldg.,  Chicago  15,  Illinois. 

FASHIONS 

$100.00  FASHION  CREATIONS  for  $19.00.  Win  men  with 
fabulous  copies  of  movie  stars  exclusive.  Can't  be  told  from 
originals.  Rush  ten  cents  for  huge  catalog.  400  head  to  toe 
pin-up  fashions  attract  any  man.  Fredericks,  Dept.  6390, 
Hollywood,  California. 


AGENTS  WANTED 


60%  PROFIT  COSMETICS.  $25  Day  Up.  Hire  others. 
Samples,  details.  Studio  Girl  Hollywood,  Glendale,  Calif., 

Dept.  1661  OH. 

NEGRO  WOMEN  WRITE  for  samples,  information  about 
making  $65  regularly,  spare  time,  selling  Cosmetics.  Lucky 

Heart,  Dept.  20K,  Memphis,  Tennessee. 

CALIFORNIA  SWEET  SMELLING  Beads.  Sensational 
sellers.  Free  Particulars.  Mission,  2328AA  West  Pico,  Los 

Angeles  6,  California. 

$2.00  RETURNS  $10.00.  Lifetime  repeats.  Black  Diamond  Per- 
f  ume.  Free  sample.  Exclusive  I  mports,  1 1 39  Wabash,  Chicago  6. 

STAMP  COLLECTING 

CANADA— NEWFOUNDLAND  COLLECTION  including 
early  issues,  commemoratives,  pictorials  and  high  values. 
Plus  set  of  fascinating  triangle  stamps.  Plus  set  of  unused 
British  Colonies.  Plus  large  stamp  book.  All  four  offers  free. 
Send  10c  to  cover  postage.  Empire  Stamp  Corp.,  DepL  PC, 
Toronto,  Canada. __ 

OLD  COINS  «.  MONEY  WANTED 

WE  PURCHASE  INDIANHEAD  pennies.  Complete  allcoin 
catalogue  25c.  Magnacoins,  Box  61-HF,  Whitestone  57,  New 

York.  [ 

HEALTH  <t  MEDICAL  SERVICE 

FREE  BOOK— PILES,  Fistula,  Colon-Stomach,  associated 
conditions.  Newest  scientific  procedures.  Thornton  Minor 
Hospital,  Suite  C-1013,  Kansas  City  9,  Mo. 

MALE  &  FEMALE  HELP  WANTED 

EARN  EXTRA  MONEY  selling  Advertising  Book  Matches. 
Free  sample  kit  furnished.  Matchcorp,  Dept.  WP-30,  Chicago 

32,  Illinois. 

INSTRUCTION 

FINISH  HIGH  SCHOOL  at  home,  spare  time.  No  classes. 
Diploma  awarded.  Write  for  Free  catalog  Wayne  School, 

Catalog  HCH-37,  2527  Sheffield,  Chicago  14. 

HOME  SEWERS  WANTED 

SEW  BABY  SHOES  at  home.  No  canvassing.  $40.00  weekly 
possible.  Write:  Tiny-Tot,  Gallipolis  19,  Ohio. 

FEMALE  HELP  WANTED 

NEW  HOME  CLUB  Plan  Sensation!  Style  Shows— Children's 
Adults'  apparel  easily  earns  $20.00-$40.00  evenings.  Prizes, 
Gifts,  fun  I  Experience  unnecessary.  Complete  outfit  furnished. 

Beeline  Fashions,  Bensenville  635,  Illinois. 


BEAL'TY  DEMONSTRATORS— TO  $5  hour  demonstrating 

"  >r  free 
Dept. 


Famous  Hollywood  Cosmetics,  your  neighborhood.  For  free 
samples,  details,  write  Studio  Girl,  Glendale,  " 


16610C. 


Calif., 


$2.00  HOURLY  POSSIBLE  doing  light  assembly  work  at 
home.   Experience  unnecessary.  Crown   Industries,   8507-B 

West  Third,  Los  Angeles  48,  Calif. 

HOME  WORKERS.  MAKE  hand-made  moccasins.  Good  pay 
Experience  unnecessary.  California  Handicrafts,  Los  Angeles 

46,  California. 

FASCINATING  WORK  AT  Home!  No  selling!  We  pay  you  I 

Truart,  Box  710,  Pasadena,  Calif. 

HOME  SEWING.  READY-Cut  Rap^Around.  Profitable.  Free 
instructions.  Hollywood  Manufacturing,  Hollywood  46,  Calif. 
EARN  $50  FAST  sewing  our  precut  products.  Information  3c. 

Thompson's,  Loganville,  Wisconsin. 

$5.00  DAILY,  MAKING  scented  Orchids.  Free  Sample. 
Boycan,  Sharon  4,  Penna. 

BUSINESS  OPPORTUNITIES 

BUY  WHOLESALE!  RESELL— big  profits.  Brand  names- 
Appliances,  housewares,  watches,  jewelry,  dry  goods,  sporting 
goods,  toys,  gifts.  Free  color  catalog,  1001  items.  Merit  Home 

Dept.  PWC-10, 107  Manhattan  Ave.,  Brooklyn  6,  N.Y. 

PREPARE  ADVERTISING  LETTERS.  Mail  to  our  name 
lists.  $50  weekly  possible.  Adams  11603-R  Paramount: 
Downey,  California. __ 

DO-IT-YOURSELF 

LEARN  ART  METALCRAFT  and  jewelry  making.  Complete, 
inexpensive,  home  training  course  now  available.  Special  tools 
and  materials  furnished.  Write  for  free  booklet.  Interstate 
Training  Service,  Dept.  L-73,  Portland  13,  Oregon. 

EDUCATIONAL  OPPORTUNITIES 

HIGH  SCHOOL  DIPLOMA  at  home.  Licensed  teachers. 
Approved  materials.  Southern  States  Academy,  Box  144W 
Station  E,  Atlanta,  Georgia. 

FOREIGN  &  U.S.A.  JOB  LISTINGS 


HIGH  PAYING  JOBS.  All  types.  Foreign  U.S.  Chance  to 
Travel.  Fare  paid.  Application  Forms.  For  Information  Write 
Section  95B,  National,  1020  Broad,  Newark,  N.J. 


MISCELLANEOUS 


FREE  BOOK  ON  Arthritis,  Rheumatism  explains  specialized 
system  on  non-surgical,  non-medical  treatment.  Write  Ball 

Clinic,  Dept  750,  Excelsior  Springs,  Missouri. 

WORK  AT  HOME 

$18.00  WEEKLY,  HANDPAINTING  novelty  Ashtrays.  No 
selling.  Flocraft,  Hubbard  2,  Ohio. 


CAN 
YOU 
USE 


I  You  can  make  this  and  even  more  every  week 
In  your  spare  time,  by  show- 
ing  America's   outstanding 
brands  of  Christmas  Cards. 
CRESTCARD  will  send  you 
4    nationally    advertised 
lines   at  the  same  time. 
IT  COSTS  NOTHING  TO 
TRY. 


High  School  Course 

at  Home 


Many  Finish  in  2  Years 

If  you  did  not  or  cannot  finish  high  school,  here  is 
your  opportunity.  Study  in  spare  time  at  home.  Go 
as  rapidly  as  your  time  and  abilities  permit.  Course 
equivalent  to  residential  school — prepares  for  college 
exams.  Standard  texts  supplied.  Credit  for  subjects 
already  completed.  Single  subjects  if  desired.  Di- 
ploma awarded.  Be  a  High  School  graduate.  Start 
studies  now.  Free  Bulletin.  Send  coupon. 

OUR  59TH  YEAR ; 

AMERICAN  SCHOOL,  Dept.  H-753 
Drexel  at  58th  St.,  Chicago  37,  III. 

obligation,     please    Bend     FREE     descriptive    ! 


Without 
booklet. 


Address 

Complete  Canadian  Courses  available.    Write  American 
School,  Dept.  H753,  6083  Sherbrooke  St.  W..  Montreal 


I 


T 
V 
R 

71 


(Continued  from  page  32) 
Jacqueline  Zipert,  and  a  beautifully  olive 
complexioned  Grecian  beauty,  eight-year- 
old  Stela  Tambaki.  Both  were  adopted  by 
Art  and  Lois  on  the  American  Foster 
Children  Plan  In  fact,  the  Linkletters 
have  two  adopted  boys  in  Europe  too: 
sixteen-year-old  Rollan  Mangeard,  a 
handsome  youngster  studying  to  be  an 
aircraft  apprentice  in  France,  and  thir- 
teen-year-old Alberto  Di  Raco,  a  promis- 
ing young  artist  in  Italy.  And,  of  course, 
at  home  with  Art  and  Lois,  there  are  their 
own  five  children. 

And  the  four  blonds  madly  in  love  with 
announcer  Jack  Slattery?  Jack  doesn't 
worry  either  that  this  situation  will  up- 
set his  lovely  wife  Marge.  Marge,  with  a 
sprinkle  of  auburn  in  her  tresses,  is  one 
of  the  four  girls.  The  three  others  are: 
Susie,  13,  Patty,  11 — and  Jack's  newest 
secret  love,  their  22-months-old  adopted 
daughter,  Margaret  Joy. 

Every  weekday  afternoon  when  Art 
Linkletter's  House  Party  goes  off  the  air, 
jolly  Jack  dog-trots  to  his  dressing  room, 
splashes  a  few  drops  of  water  on  his 
face  in  a  hasty  try  at  cleaning  off  his 
make-up,  and  heads  for  his  car  and  home. 
Given  free  summer  afternoons,  Jack 
wants  to  spend  them  with  his  nearly-new 
two-year-old  daughter,  playing  at  bulb- 
planting  in  the  big  back  yard  of  their  Van 
Nuys  home. 

Arriving  in  the  driveway,  Jack  honks 
the  horn,  informing  all  that  he  is  home. 
Wife  Marge  shouts  "Hi!"  through  the 
kitchen  window,  and  Maggie  Joy — thirty- 
five  pounds  of  cuddly  enthusiasm — comes 
racing  across  the  lawn  and  through  the 
privet  hedges  to  be  scooped  up  in  genial 
Jack's  arms.  The  daily  ritual  is  complete 
when  Jack  plants  a  loving  kiss  on  his 
newest  daughter's  brow.  In  the  process, 
some  of  his  half-washed  make-up  is  usu- 
ally rubbed  off  onto  Maggie's  already 
rosy  cheek.  Then  Jack  carries  Maggie 
piggy-back  through  the  front  door. 

Maggie,  cuddled  in  his  giant  arms  like 
a  small  boat  in  a  safe  harbor,  looks  up 
at  Jack  with  her  blue  eyes  full  of  trust 
and  love.  A  devoted  father,  Jack  is  fond 
of  saying — frequently  and  with  continued 
amazement — to  his  wife  Marge:  "Children 
really  are  easy  to  love.  .  .  ."  Describing 
Jack's  personality,  lovely  Marge  says 
simply,  "When  Fm  out  shopping,  people 
frequently  ask  if  I'm  the  Mrs.  Slattery  .  .  . 
When  I  say  'yes,'  they  then  ask,  'Is  Jack 
really  as  nice  in  person  as  he  seems  on 
TV?'  And  I  reply,  'If  you  saw  him  at  home 
with  our  three  girls,  playing  his  part  of 
gentle  father,  I'm  sure  you'd  agree  he's 
nicer.' " 

The  adoption  into  the  family  of  their 
baby  Maggie  Joy,  nearly  two  years  ago, 
well  illustrates  the  tender,  considerate  and 
thoughtful  qualities  of  Jack  Slattery  as 
the  loving  and  devoted  husband  and  father 
he  is.  Knowing  that  his  wife  could  not 
have  any  more  children,  and  at  the  same 
time  understanding  her  desire  to  have 
more,  Jack  immediately  agreed,  when 
Marge  came  to  him  with  the  suggestion  of 
adoption,  saying  only,  "Well,  sure  .  .  . 
what  do  you  want,  a  boy  or  a  girl?" 

Marge  answered  mysteriously,  "The  baby 
I  want  hasn't  been  born  yet.  .  .  ." 

And  that's  how  it  worked  out.  The 
Los  Angeles  Adoption  Board  agreed  the 
Slatterys  would  make  excellent  parents 
of  a  new  child.  The  night  the  baby  was 
to  be  born  both  Jack  and  Marge  went  to 
J  the  hospital;  they  wanted  to  be  present 
"    when  the  blessed  event  took  place. 

Jack  by  now  had  become  rather  en- 
thusiastic  about  the  whole  thing.  Riding 


House  Party  for  Blonds 

up  to  the  waiting  room  in  the  elevator, 
with  Marge  beside  him  and  an  obviously 
expectant  mother  and  father  on  the  other 
side,  Jack  was  also  exhibiting  all  of  the 
signs  of  a  prospective  father — nervousness, 
a  certain  amount  of  pacing,  and  frequent 
glances  at  his  wrist  watch. 

"Sitting  in  the  waiting  room,"  says 
Marge,  "the  expectant  father  was  so  ex- 
cited he  didn't  think  to  ask  us  why  we 
were  both  sitting  in  the  waiting  room — 
he  was  too  busy  telling  us  how  wonderful 
his  wife  was  and  how  he  and  his  wife 
had  met,  and  how  they  both  looked  for- 
ward so  to  the  baby. 

1  hen,  over  the  inter-com  loudspeaker, 
our  doctor  called  down  saying,  'Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Slattery  .  .  .  are  you  there?'  'Yes,' 
we  answered.  'Well,  come  upstairs  and 
see  your  new  little  baby  daughter.'  Then 
the  young  man  looked  at  both  of  us  as  if 
for  the  first  time  and  almost  fell  over — 
he  couldn't  understand  how  we  could  have 
had  a  baby  delivered  to  us  while  sitting 
in  the  waiting  room!" 

When  Jack  and  Marge  saw  their  new 
baby  it  was  love  at  first  sight.  "  I  knew 
Jack  was  thrilled,"  says  Marge,  "because 
he  had  never  bought  a  baby  gift  in  his 
life — in  fact  he  never  likes  to  go  shopping 
at  all — oh,  he  will  go  for  groceries  and 
such,  but  shopping  for  shoes  and  skirts 
and  blouses  for  the  girls,  for  example,  is 
not  exactly  his  idea  of  how  to  spend  a 
pleasant  afternoon. 

"But  as  soon  as  he  saw  Maggie  Joy, 
Jack  said  'Well,  when  are  we  going  to 
buy  the  layette?'  I  suggested  'How  about 
tomorrow?  .  .  .'  When  he  replied,  'Why 
don't  you  wait  until  Wednesday — I  get 
the  afternoon  off  and  we  can  go  together,' 
I  knew  he  was  as  thrilled  with  little 
Margaret  Joy  as  I  was." 

Five  days  later,  Jack  and  Marge  and 
their  two  daughters,  Patty  and  Susie,  then 
9  and  11,  brought  Maggie  Joy  home  from 
the  hospital-.  "Neither  Marge  nor  I  talked 
too  much  to  the  girls  about  the  coming 
of  the  new  baby,"  says  Jack,  "because  if 
anything  went  wrong  we  didn't  want 
them  to  be  disappointed.  All  little  girls,  I 
think,  are  thrilled  to  have  a  little  baby 
in  the  house. 

"But  of  course,"  continues  Jack,  "noth- 
ing went  wrong.  In  fact  everything  went 
smoothly  right  up  to  the  day  of  the  baby's 
expected  birth.  Then  nothing  happened. 
Susie  and  Patty  said,  'Daddy,  we  think 
you  should  call  up  the  doctor  and  tell 
him  we're  getting  pretty  poor  delivery 
service!' 

"In  the  meantime  Susie  passed  the  word 
around  to  about  a  hundred  kids  at  school 
that  we  were  going  to  have  a  new  baby 
at  home.  But  as  the  delivery  day  came 
and  went,  the  kids  kept  pestering  her  to 
find  out  whether  it  was  a  boy  or  a  girl. 
Finally  Maggie  Joy  arrived.  Next  day, 
Susie  went  to  school  with  a  big  pink 
bootie  pinned  to  her  dress.  'This,'  she 
said  proudly,  'will  take  care  of  all  those 
silly  questions!' " 

"The  day  we  brought  Maggie  home," 
says  Marge,  "we  took  both  Susie  and 
Patty  to  the  hospital  with  us.  Patty  in- 
sistently wanted  to  bring  her  favorite 
teddy  bear  to  Maggie.  You've  never  seen 
two  more  excited  girls — for  that  matter, 
you've  never  seen  two  more  excited 
parents. 

"We  left  the  girls  downstairs  and  Jack 
and  I  went  up  to  the  nursery.  Little 
Maggie,  so  sound  asleep  in  that  crib, 
looked  exactly  like  Susie  and  Patty  looked 
when  they  were  only  five  days  old,  with 
the  same  coloring  and  all.  In  fact  when 
Jack   and  I,  with  the   baby  in  his  arms, 


finally  stepped  into  the  elevator  to  go 
downstairs,  two  of  the  passengers  said, 
'You  certainly  can  tell  this  baby  is  his 
daddy's!' 

"There  were  quite  a  few  people  in  the 
outside  waiting  room  where  we  had  left 
the  girls,"  continues  Marge,  "and  when 
we  stepped  out  of  the  elevator  the  girls 
let  out  a  scream  you  could  hear  all  the 
way  to  Hollywood.  They  were  so  excited, 
they  were  laughing  and  crying  at  the 
same  time.  Even  some  of  the  folks  stand- 
ing in  the  lobby  had  a  few  tears  in  their 
eyes  to  see  how  these  two  little  girls 
greeted  their  new  baby  sister. 

"The  girls  accepted  Maggie  into  the 
house,"  continues  Marge,  "as  if  she  were 
really  ours,  and  not  a  chosen  sister.  In 
fact,  Patty,  then  only  nine,  turned  out 
to  be  a  regular  mother — both  she  and 
Jack  take  over  where  I  leave  off." 

"After  the  first  year,"  says  Jack,  "it  was 
plain  to  me  we  had  a  little  genius  in  the 
house.  Of  course  I  may  just  be  talking 
like  any  proud  parent  over  his  child,  but 
I  think  it's  true.  I  know  the  doctor  said 
one  day,  'When  you  send  this  child  to 
kindergarten,  you'll  have  to  put  a  tag 
around  her  neck  reading,  'Brains,  please 
do  not  hold  back.'  At  twenty  months  she 
can  already  count  from  one  to  ten.  And 
she  has  a  terrific  memory — I  came  home 
one  afternoon  and  she  had  dug  up  all  the 
bulbs  she  and  I  had  planted  last  spring. 

"And  she  knows  the  number  '8'  by 
sight,"  continues  Jack.  "I  do  the  grocery 
shopping  every  once  in  a  while,  and 
last  week  we  went  into  the  store  and  as 
Penny,  the  girl  at  the  desk,  rang  up  our 
sales,  Maggie  said,  'Eight!'  Sure  enough, 
there  was  a  big  eight  on  the  cash  register. 
'Did  you  hear  that,  Penny?'  I  said,  'Maggie 
just  said  'Eight!' 

"  'She  did  not  say  "eight,"  Mr.  Slattery. 
She  said  "light,"  Maggie  is  too  young  to 
know  the  numbers,  but  she  saw  the  light 
flash  and  she  said  "light."' 

"  'I'm  sure  she  said  "eight,"  I  replied.' 

"  'Mr.  Slattery,'  said  Penny,  'that  is 
wishful  thinking!' " 

Jack  was  too  kind  to  disagree. 

Jack  Slattery  was  born  in  Kansas  City, 
Missouri  He  immediately  started  growing 
as  tall  and  straight  as  the  Kansas  corn 
and  didn't  stop  until  he  topped  a  corn- 
tassled,  blond  6  foot  2  inches. 

When  he  was  a  child  his  parents  moved 
to  Los  Angeles,  where  seven-year-old 
Jack  made  his  radio  debut  singing  hymns 
over  local  stations.  By  the  time  he  was 
twelve,  Jack  considered  himself  a  crooner. 
A  few  years  later,  he  formed  a  band, 
playing  at  local  school  dances.  At  one  of 
the  engagements  the  announcer  failed  to 
show  up.  Jack  filled  in.  He  has  been 
announcing  ever  since. 

After  a  public  school  education  Jack 
went  to  the  University  of  Southern  Cali- 
fornia. His  wife  Marge  proudly  says: 
"Jack  was  President  of  the  Arts  and 
Sciences  Student  Body,  President  of  his 
fraternity,  and  a  member  of  the  honorary 
'Blue  Key  Society.'  I  knew  Jack  for 
months  before  I  found  out  how  active  he 
was  at  USC.  He  just  never  brags. 

"Jack  and  I  met,"  continues  Marge, 
"when  he  was  just  leaving  college.  He  was 
working  as  a  disc  jockey  at  KMPC  and 
I  came  in  to  see  one  of  the  other  an- 
nouncers. I  was  introduced  to  the  'new' 
young  platter  spinner  who  stood  so  tall 
and  straight  he  had  to  stoop  his  blond 
head  to  fit  into  the  announcer's  booth.  I 
remember  my  first  thought  was,  'He  cer- 
tainly is  clean-cut.' 

"On  our  first  date  sixteen  years  ago. 
Jack   took    me   to    a   fraternity    dance    at 


USC.  My  first  impression  of  Jack  was 
sustained — he  came  to  the  door  wearing 
a  very  proper  dark  suit  and  bearing  a 
corsage  of  gardenias.  He  was  completely 
charming. 

"Jack  still  likes  to  dance,"  continues 
Marge.  "He  will  say  to  me,  for  example, 
'Honey,  would  you  like  to  go  to  the 
Cocoanut  Grove  next  Thursday  night?  and 
I  know  that  means  he's  going  to  spend 
the  following  Friday,  Saturday  and  Sun- 
day fishing  in  the  Sierras. 

"Jack  usually  goes  fishing  with  one  or 
two  of  our  neighbors,  and  they  frequently 
take  a  half-dozen  of  our  neighborhood 
pool  of  teen-age  "boys,  Jack  says  its  good 
for  the  kids  to  get  the  mountain  hunting 
and  fishing  experience.  It  helps  them  to 
build  confidence  and  independence.  I  think 
it's  good  of  Jack  and  his  friends  to  take 
the  boys  along  on  their  'men'  trips.  But 
Jack  shrugs  his  shoulders,  as  if  to  say 
its  simply  the  thing  to  do.  He  and  his 
friends   don't   want   any    compliments. 

"I  asked  one  of  our  neighbors  one  time 
what  they  did  on  these  jaunts  besides 
fish.  He  said:  'Well,  once  Jack  gets  us 
in  the  boat  so  we  can't  escape,  he  proudly 
pulls  a  stack  of  family  pictures  out  of 
his  wallet  and  shows  off  you  and  the 
girls. 

"But  of  course  he  deserves  his  fishing 
jaunts,"  Marge  continues,  "and  a  brief 
vacation  from  his  children.  He  spends 
almost  every  afternoon  with  them,  un- 
selfishly devoting  time  to  their  interests. 
He  escorts  Susie  to  the  ballpark  weekly 
(she  has  a  boyfriend  on  the  team)  and 
sits  by  the  hour  with  Patty  and  Susie 
discussing  music — they  have  a  record 
collection  that  runs  from  floor  to  ceiling 
and  which  plays  from  morn  to  night;  and 
the  three  of  them  go  to  the  beach  and 
swim  and  play  volley  ball. 

"And  every  free  moment,  of  course, 
is  spent  with  Maggie  Joy — I  hunt  around 
the  bargain  shops  for  antiques,  take  them 
home  to  Jack's  workshop,  where  he  and 
Maggie  refinish  them  together.  Jack  says 
that  Maggie's  fingerprints  in  the  wet 
varnish  make  an  interesting  effect. 

"Jack  is  also  a  strong  family  man — 
birthdays  and  holidays,  for  example,  mean 
a  lot  to  us  here.  When  Maggie  was  one 
year  old,  though  at  first  we  thought  a 
party  would  be  too  confusing  for  her, 
the  more  Jack  thought  about  it,  the  more 
convinced  he  was  that  we  should  have 
one.  'Besides,'  he  said,  'think  of  the  fun 
Patty  and  Susie  would  have.' 

"So  we  invited  a  few  of  our  relatives — 
Jack's  mother  and  father  and  my  sister 
and  her  children — then  one  by  one  the 
neighbors  started  drifting  in,  bearing 
birthday  gifts.  What  started  out  to  be  a 
small  party,  turned  into  a  jamboree  with 
sixty  guests.  I  sent  Jack  to  the  store  three 
times  for  more  balloons  and  ice  cream. 

"One  thing  about  Jack,"  says  Marge, 
"that  makes  him  such  a  good  father  is 
his  even  temper.  With  our  girls  he  is  as 
patient  as  a  pyramid.  I  know  he  has  a 
great  deal  of  self  control  by  the  way  he 
acts  with  little  Maggie.  She  is  an  active 
baby,  completely  carefree,  who  never 
looks  where  she  is  running.  She  plays  as 
hard  as  a  USC  fullback.  One  day  she 
got  her  hands  on  Jack's  old  beat-up  fish- 
ing hat.  Now  Jack  loves  nothing  so  dearly 
at  that  hat — or  what  was  left  of  it  after 
Maggie  played  wheelbarrel  in  the  garden 
with  it.  Some  husbands  would  explode 
over  such  a  catastrophe.  Jack  never  said 
a  word.  In  fact,  in  our  fifteen  years  of 
marriage,  I've  never  heard  him  say, 
'darn.' 

"So  today  when  Jack's  fans  come  up  to 
me  and  ask,%  'Is  your  husband  really  as 
nice  in  person  as  he  is  on  TV?'  I  know 
from  experience  I  can  safely  say,  'He's 
nicer!'  " 


Now— so  easy  to  be 
a  blonde  again! 

Actually  simpler  than  setting  your  hair! 


If  your  hair  was  born  to  be  blonde— 
and  isn't— or  if  you're  a  brownette 
with  blonde  ambitions,  Light  and 
Bright  by  Richard  Hudnut  is  for 
you.  It's  a  home  hair-lightener  de- 
signed to  bring  out  all  the  hidden 
gold  in  your  hair  . . .  make  you  as 
blonde  as  you  were  born  to  be. 

Light  and  Bright  is  so  simple  and 
easy  to  use;  simpler,  in  fact,  than 
setting  your  hair.  No  messy  mixing. 
No  complicated  testing.  No  worri- 
some timing.  And  Light  and  Bright 
gives  you  genuine  "color  control"! 

Light  and  Bright  works  so  gently, 
so  gradually,  you  don't  have  to 
worry  about  getting  too  blonde  too 
fast.  Each  time  you  use  Light  and 
Bright  your  hair  gets  a  little  lighter, 


a  little  brighter.  When  you  reach 
just  the  color  you  want,  you  stop. 

Light  and  Bright  contains  no  am- 
monia. It's  formulated  with  a  special 
built-in  conditioner.  Wonderful,  the 
way  Light  and  Bright  makes  you  a 
true,  natural-looking  blonde  again 
. . .  with  lovely  shining-soft  hair!  And 
once  this  gentle  home  brightener 
has  brought  to  light  your  real 
blondeness  that  mousey  look  is 
gone  for  keeps.  Your  new  golden 
look  won't  wash  out,  won't  fade. 
Guaranteed  by  Good  Housekeeping. 

Get  a  bottle  today— be  a  blonde 
beauty  tomorrow.  Only  $1.50  plus 
tax  for  Light  and  y^5J°W!™!;°?%js. 
Bright  at  cosmetic  (JJKXJJP 
counters. 


Advertisement 


EAT  ANYTHING 
WITH  IALSE  TEETH 

If  you  have  trouble  with  plates  that 
slip,  rock  and  cause  sore  gums — try 
Brimms  Plasti-Liner.  One  applica- 
tion makes  plates  fit  snugly  without 
powder  or  paste,  because  Brimms 
Plasti-  Liner  hardens  permanently  to 
your  plate.  It  relines  and  refits  loose 
plates  in  a  -way  no  powder  or  paste  can  do.  No  need 
to  pass  up  your  favorite  foods.  With  plates  held 
firmly  by  Plasti-Liner,  YOU  CAN  EAT  ANYTHING! 
Simply  lay  soft  strip  of  Plasti-Liner  on  troublesome 
upper  or  lower.  Bite  and  it  molds  perfectly.  Easy 
to  use,  tasteless,  odorless,  harmless  to  you  and  your 
plates.  Removable  as  directed.  Money  back  guaran- 
tee. At  your  drug  counter.  Only  $1.50. 


BRIMMS    PLASTI-LINER 

THE  PERMANENT  DENTURE  RELINER 


AT  LAST!  YOUR  CHANCE  FOR  SUCCESS 


i  ^      No  High  School  Necessary;  No  Age  Limit 

"''  T  Send  for  sample  lesson  and  nurse's  booklet. 
It's  FREE  .  no  obligation.  Just  mail  coupon, 
See  for  yourself  how  easy  it  is  to  get  BIG  PAY  .  . .» 
gain  social  prestige  and  financial  independence  as 
a  POST  GRADUATE  HOSPITAL  trained  PRACTICAL  NURSE. 
Learn  at  home  while  you  earn.  Don't  delay. 
Send  coupon  NOW! 


•  POST  GRADUATE  HOSPITAL  SCHOOL  OF  NURSING 

*  9C106  Auditorium  Bldg.  Chicago  5,  III. 


•  NAME. 


JADDRESS- 
•  CITY 


_SIATE_ 


FREE! 


NATIONALLY 
FAMOUS  BRANDS 


SHEETS  •  BEDSPREADS  •  BLANKETS 
CURTAINS  •  TOWELS  •  TOASTERS 
MIXERS   •    DRESSES    •    SWEATERS 

AND  1,001  OTHER  THINGS 

without  one  cent  cost 

Mail  coupon  NOW  for  264-page  FULL  COLOR  Merchan- 
dise Book,  chockful  of  Big  Values  and  Famous  National 
Brands.  Quick  as  a  wink  you  can  start  a  shop-by-mail 
club  with  a  few  friends.  They  pay  only  $1  a  week  for  $10 
order  and  get  Free  Gifts  worth  up  to  $3.95.  YOU  don't 
have  to  buy  anything.  YOU  receive  FREE  $25,  $50,  $75 
and  more  in  merchandise  just  for  sending  in  your  friends' 
orders.  Everything  you  want  for  yourself,  family  and 
home,  you  get  FREE  for  a  few  minutes  of  your  time.  It's 
easy.  No  experience  needed.  Don't  miss  this  opportunity. 

We  serve  only  EAST  of  the  Mississippi 
GRACE  HOLMES,  Dept.  136  UNION,  N.  J. 


GRACE  HOLMES  CLUB  PLAN 
Dept.   136,  Union,  N.  J. 

I  am  interested  in  receiving  Free  Mer-  - 
chandise.   Send   me  FREE   264-page 
Full-Color  Book  and  also  details  of 
how  I  can  win  a  Chevrolet. 


Name 

Address 

|    City Zone State... 


73 


74 


All  times  listed  are  Eastern  Daylight 
Time.  These  are  network  programs.  Local 
stations    may    substitute    or    re-schedule. 


nside  Radio 

NOTE:    World  Series  Baseball  starts  October  3rd  on   Mutual 
Broadcasting  System,  pre-empting  regularly  scheduled  programs. 


Monday  through  Friday 


NBC 


MBS 


ABC 


CBS 


1*1  Ol 

8:30 
8:45 

'■ling    Progra 

ms 

Local  Program 

9:00 
9:15 
9:30 

Robert  Hurleigh 
Easy  Does  It 

Breakfast  Club 

News  Of  America 

10:00 
10:15 

10:30 
10:45 

Bandstand,  with 
Bert  Parks 

Cecil  Brown 
Footnotes  To 

Medical  History 
Five-Star  News 
10:35  Johnny  Olsen 

My  True  Story 

When  A  Girl  Marries 
Whispering  Streets 

Arthur  Godfrey  Time, 
with  Peter  Lind 
Hayes 

11:00 

11:15 
11:30 

11:45 

Bandstand  (con.) 

News 

11:05  Story  Time 
Holland  Engle 
Queen  For  A  Day 

Grand  Central 

Station 
Jack  Paar  Show 
News 
11:35  Your  Happy 

Holiday 

Arthur   Gortfrev 
(con.),  with  Peter 
Lind  Hayes 

This   is  Kathy 
Godfrey 

Howard  Miller  Show 

Afternoon    Programs 


12:00 

Noon  News 
12:05  Story  Time 

Valentino 

Wendy  Warren  & 
The  News 

12:15 

Constance  Bennett 

Frank  Farrell 

Backstage  Wife 

12:30 

Helen  Trent 

12:45 

Our  Gal  Sunday 

1:00 

News.  Cedric  Foster 

Paul  Harvey,  News 

Road  Of  Life 

1:15 

A  Ladd's  Modern 
Moods 

Ted  Malone 

Aunt  Jenny 

1:30 

Luncheon  With 

Young  Dr.  Malone 

1:45 

Lopez 

The  Guiding  Light 

2:00 

News.  Sam  Haves 
2:05  Jazz  Roost 

News,  Bill  Downs 
2:05  Right  To  Happi- 
ness 

2:15 

Second  Mrs.  Burton 

2:30 

Mutual  Matinee 

Martin  Block 

This  Is  Nora  Drake 

2:45 

Just  Entertainment 
Pat  Buttram 

3:00 

Five  Star  Matinee 

News 

3:05  Matinee  With 

Martin  Block  (con.) 

Linkletter's  House 
Party 

3:15 

Bruce  Elliot 

3:30 

Hilltop  House 

Bandstand,  U.S.A. 

Sunshine  Sue 

3:45 

Pepper  Young's 
Family 

4:00 

Wom?n  in  Mv  House 

News 

Treasury  Bandstand 

4:15 

Mary  Margaret 
McBride 

4:05  Matinee  With 
Dick  Willard 

4:30 

Fred  Waring  Show 

U.S.  Military  Band 

4:45 

5:00 

Music 

Bob  And  Ray 

5:15 

5:30 

it's  New 

5:35  Business  World 

Les  Paul  &  Mary  Ford 

5:45 

•-.purtarama 

5:55  George  Gallup 

5:50  Wismer,  Sports 
5:55  Wall  Street 
Final 

6:00 
6:30 
6:45 


7:00 

7:15 

7:30 
7:45 


8:00 
8:15 

8:30 

8:45 


9:00 

9:15 

9:30 
9:45 


10:00 
10:15 
10:30 


Monday 


Three  Star  Extra 


Evening    Programs 


Alex  Dreier,  Man 
On  The  Go 


News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


Henry  Taylor 
Berkshire  Festival 


Telephone  Hour 


Contrasts   In  Music 


NBC  News 

10:05  Gilt  Huntley 

This  World  of  Music 

Parade  Of  Bands 


Local  Program 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 

Dinner  Date 

Gabriel  Heatter 
What's  Your  Opin- 
ion? 


True  Detective 
Mysteries 

Danger  With  Granger 


News.   Lyle  Van 
9:05  Bob  And  Ray 
Behind  The  Iron 

Curtain 
Reporters'  Roundup 


Music  From 
Studio  X 


6:30  News 
6:35  Mel  Allen, 
Sports 


Ed  Morgan,  News 

Quincy  Howe 

Mike  Malloy, 
Private  Eye 
7:55  News 


American  Music 

Hall 
8:25   News 
Voice  Of  Firestone 


News 

9:05  American  Music 

Hall 
9:25   News 
Best  Bands  In 

The  Land 
9:55   News 

Personality 


News 

10:05  Imagination, 
with  Milton  Cross 
10:25  News 
Imagination  (con.) 


Jackson  &  The  News 
Lowell  Thomas 


News  Analysis, 

LeSeuer 
7:05  Amos  'n'  Andy 
7:25  Dr.  Baxter 
Bing  Crosby 
Edward  R.  Murrow 


Robert  Q.  Lewis 
Show 

Arthur  Godfrey's 
Talent  Scouts 


News.  Collingwood 
9:05  Mv  San,  Jeep 
Johnny  Dollar 

Capitol  Cloakroom 

9:55  News,  Trout 


The  World  Tonight 
10:05  Orchestra 


Tuesday 


6:00 
6:30 
6:45 


7:00 
7:15 


7:30 
7:45 


8:00 
8:15 
8:30 


9:00 

9:15 
9:30 


10:00 


10:15 
10:30 


6:00 
6:30 
6:45 


7:00 
7:15 


7:30 
7:45 


8:00 
8:15 
8:30 


9:00 

9:15 
9:30 
9:45 


10:00 


10:15 
10:30 


6:00 
6:3' 
6:45 


7:00 
7:15 


7:30 
7:45 


8:00 
8:15 
8:30 


9:00 

9:15 
9:30 
9:45 


10:00 
10:15 
10:30 


6:00 
6:3' 
6:45 


7:00 

7:15 

7:30 
7:45 


8:00 
8:15 
8:30 


9:00 

9:15 
9:30 
9:45 


NBC 


Three  Star  Extra 


Evening   Programs 

ABC 


Alex   Dreier, 
Man  On  The  Go 


News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


X  Minus  One 

News 

8:35  Biographies  In 

Sound 


Biographies 
In  Sound  (con.) 

Ted  Heath,  Music 


NBC  News 
10:05  Chet  Huntley 
This  World  Of  Music 
Ken  Nordine 


MBS 
Local    Program 


DC 


Fulton    Lewis,   Jr. 

Dinner   Date 

Gabriel   Heatter 
Eddie  Fisher 


Treasury  Agent 
Big  City 


News.  Lyle  Van 
9:05  Bob  And  Ray 
Dateline  Defense 
Army  Hour 


News 

6:35  Mel  Allen 


Ed  Morgan,  News 

Quincy  Howe 

Sherlock  Holmes 
7:55  News 


American  Music  Hall 
8:25   News 

American  Music  Hall 


American  Music  Hall 

9:25  News 

Best  Bands  Of 
The  Land 


Music  From 
Studio  X 


News 

10:05  Imagination 
10:25  News 
Imagination  (con.) 


CBS 

Jackson  &  The  Nev  | 

Lowell  Thomas 

News  Analysis, 

LeSeuer 
7:05  Amos  V  Andy 
7:25  Dr.  Baxter 
Bing  Crosby 
Edward   R.   Murrov- 


Robert  Q.  Lewis 

Show 
Suspense 


!li 


News,  Herman 
9:05  My  Son,  Jeep 
Johnny  Dollar 
Campaign   '56 
9:55  News 


The  World  Tonight 
10:05  Dance  Musi 


Wednesday 


Evening    Programs 


Three  Star  Extra 


Alex  Dreier, 
Man  On  The  Go 

News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


Truth  Or 

Consequences 
Recollections  At  30 
8:55  News 


You  Bet  Your  Life 
-Groucho  Marx 

Sound  Flight 


NBC  News 

10:05  Chet  Huntley 

This  Is  Moscow 


Thursday 


Three  Star  Extra 


Local    Program 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
Dinner  Date 

Gabriel    Heatter 
What's  Your  Opinion? 


Gang  Busters 

Crime  Files  of 
Flamond 


Press  Conference 


Family  Theater 


Music  From 
Studio  X 


News 

6:35  Mel  Allen 


Ed  Morgan  News 
Quincy  Howe 

Masters  Of  Mystery 
7:55   News 


American  Music  Hall 
3.25  News 
American  Music  Hall 


American  Music  Hall 

9:25  News 
Best  Bands 
Of  The  Land 


News 

10:05  Imagination 
10:25  News 
Imagination  (con.) 


Jackson  &  The  New 
Lowell  Thomas 


News,  LeSeuer 
7:05  Amos  'n'  Andy 
7:25  Dr.  Baxter 
Bing  Crosby 
Edward   R.   Murroia 


II 


Robert  Q.  Lewis 

Show 
Pick  The  Winner 


News,  Collingwood 
9:05  My  Son,  Jeep 
Johnny  Dollar 
Washington  &  The 

World 
9:55  News 


The  World  Tonight    - 


Alex  Dreier, 
Man  On  The  Go 


News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


People  Are  Funny 
Conversation 


News 

9:05  Can  Freedom 

Win? 
Stars  In  Action 


10:00 

10:15 
10:30 


NBC  News 
10:05  Chet  Huntley 
Carling  Conserva- 
tion Club 
Jane    Pickens   Show 


Friday 


Three  Star  Extra 


Evening    Programs 

Local  Program 

News 

6:35  Mel  Allen 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
Dinner  Date 


Gabriel  Heatter 
Eddie  Fisher 


Official  Detective 

It's  A  Crime,  Mr. 
Collins 


News.  Lyle  Van 
9:05  Bob  And  Ray 
U.N.  Radio  Review 
State  Of  The  Nation 


Music  From 
Studio  X 


Ed  Morgan,  News 
Quincy  Howe 


Mystery  Classic 

7:55  News 


American  Music  Hall 
8:25  News 
American  Music  Hall 


American  Music  Hall 

9:25  News 
Best  Bands  Of 
The  Land 


Alex  Dreier, 
Man  On  The  Go 


News  Of  The  World 
One   Man's   Family 


National    Radio    Fan 
Club 


NBC    Job    Clinic 
9:05  Radio  Fan  Club 
(con.) 

Victor  Riesel,  Inside 
Story 


Cavalcade  Of  Sports 
Sports  Highlights 


News 

10:05  Imagination 

10:25  News 
Imagination  (con.) 


Evening   Programs 

Local  Program 

Ngws 

6:35  Mel  Allen 


10:05  Music 


Jackson  &  The  New 
Lowell  Thomas 


News  Analysis, 

LeSeuer 
7:05  Amos  'n'  Andy 
7:25  Dr.  Baxter 
Bing  Crosby 
Edward  R.  Murrow 


Robert  Q.  Lewis 

Show 
21st  Precinct 


News,  Herman 
9:05  My  Son,  Jeep 
Johnny  Dollar 
The  Leading 
Question 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 

Dinner  Date 

Gabriel  Heatter 
What's  Your  Opin- 
ion? 


Counter-spy 
City  Editor 


News,  Lyle  Van 
9:05  Bob  and  Ray 
UN  Radio  Review 
True  Or  False 


Music  From  Studio  X 

Virgil  Pinkley 
Music 


Ed  Morgan,  News 
Quincy  Howe 
Police  Blotter 
7:55  News 


American  Music  Hall 
8:25  News 
American  Music  Hall 


American  Music  Hall 

9:25  News 
Best  Bands  Of 
The  Land 


News 

10:05  Imagination 
10:25  News 
Imagination  (con.) 


The  World  Tonight 
10:05  Dance  Music 


Jackson  &  The  New 
Lowell  Thomas 


News  Analysis, 

LeSeuer 
7:05  Amos  'n'  Andy 
7:25  Dr.  Baxter 
Bing  Crosby 
Edward    R.    Murrow 


Robert  Q.  Lewis 

Show 
CBS  Radio  Workshop 


News.  Collingwood 
9:05  My  Son,  Jeep 
Johnny  Dollar 
So  They  Say 

9:55   News 


The  World  Tonight 
10:05  Dance  Music 


I:! 

I:l 
If 
I;: 

~- 
K 


nside  Radio 


Saturday 


NBC 


MBS 


ABC 


CBS 


Mot 

8:30 
8:45 

■uing 

Progra 

ms 

Local  Program 

8:55  News 

News 

9:00 
9:15 
9:30 
9:45 

Monitor 

No  School  Today 

News  Of  America 
Farm  News 

Garden  Gate 

0:00 
0:15 
0:30 
0:45 

Monitor 

News 

I've  Been  Reading 

No  School 

Today  (con.) 
AM   League 

Clubhouse 

N-nis,  Jackson 
10:05  Galen  Drake 
Show 

1:00 

1:15 
1:30 
1:45 

Monitor 

N°ws 

11:05  1  Ask  You 

Musical     Wheel     Of 
Chance 

News 
Platterbrains 

News,  Calmer 
11:05   Robert  0. 
Lewis  Show 

Afternoon    Programs 


?:00 

National  Farm  & 

News 

News 

News,  Jackson 

Home   Hour 

12:05  Magic  of 

12:05  World  Tourist 

12:05  Romance 

?:15 

Music 

101   Ranch  Boys 

?:30 

Monitor 

American  Living 

American  Farmer 

Gunsmoke 

2:45 

12:55  Weather  Along 
The  Highways 

1:00 

Monitor 

For  Teens  Only 

News 

News,  Jackson 

1:15 

1:05   Navy  Hour 

1:05  City  Hospital 

1:30 

Shake  The  Maracas 

Man    About 
The  House 

1:45 

Adventures  In 
Science 

I  2:00 

Monitor 

News 

News 

News,  Townsend 

2:05  Fifth  Army 

2:05  Festival- 

2:05  String 

2:15 

Band 

Ballet 

Serenade 

2:30 

LucKy  Pierre 

Sports 

2:35  Ballet  (con.) 

3:00 

Monitor 

Country  Jamboree 

News 

3:05  Festival- 

News,  Bancroft 
3:05  Richard  Hayes 

3:15 

Light  Opera 

Show 

3:30 

Sport  Parade 

Sports 

3:35  Opera  (con.) 

Treasury  Show 

4:00 

Monitor 

Standby  Sports,  with 

News 

News,  Cochran 

Harry  Wismer 

4:05  Festival 

4:05  Treasury  Show 

4:1b 

(con.) 

4:30 

Larry  Faith  Orch. 

4:45 

5:00 

Monitor 

News 

5:05  All-Sports  Quiz 

News 

5:05  Dinner  At  The 

News,  Cochran 

5:15 

Green  Room 

5:30 

Make  Way  For  Youth 

5:45 

5:55  Cecil  Brown 

Evening    Programs 


6:00 

6:15 
6:30 

6:45 


7:00 
7:15 
7:30 


8:00 

i 

8:15 

8:30 

1  8:45 


Monitor 


Monitor 


Monitor 


'  9:00 

9:15 
9:30 


0:00 

0:15 
0:30 


Monitor 


Grand  Ole  Opry 


Monitor 


John  T.  Flynn 

World  Traveler 
Report  From 
Washington 
Dinner  Date 
6:55  News 


Pop  The  Question 
Hawaii  Calls 


Bandstand,  U.S.A. 


Bandstand  (con.) 


Renfro  Valley 
Barn  Dance 


News 

6:05  Pan-American 

Union 
Sports  Kaleidoscope 

Basil  Rathbone 


News 

7:05  At  Ease 

Unit  99 


News 

8:05  Vincent  Lopez 

It's  Your  Business 
As  We  See  It 


News 

9:05  National  Juke 

Box 
Sports 
9:35  Best  Bands 


News 

10:05  Lawrence  Welk 

Army  Show 
Sports 
10:35  Rhythm  On 

Parade 


News 

6:05  New  Orleans 

Jazz  Band  Ball 
Saturday  At  The 

Chase 


News 

7:05  Juke  Box  Jury 

7:55  Weather  Along 
The  Highways 


News.  Jackson 
8:05  Treasury  Of 

Music 
Upb°at  Saturday 

Night 


News 

9:05  Saturday  Night, 
Country  Style 


News 

10:05  Dance  Band 

Basin  Stree  Jazz 


Sunday 


NBC 

Morning    Progra 

8:30   Bible  Study  Hour 
8:45 


9:00 


MBS 
HIS 

Oral  Roberts 


World  News  Roundup 


9:15   Art  Of  Living 
9:30  Voice  Of  Prophecy 

9:45 


10:00 
10:15 

10:30 
10:45 


11:00 

11:15 

11:30 
11:45 


National   Radio 
Pulpit 

Monitor 


Monitor 


11:35   New   World 


Wings  Of  Healing 
Back  To  God 


Radio  Bible  Class 
Voice  Of  Prophecy 


Frank  And  Ernest 

How  Christian 
Science  Heals 

Northwestern 
Reviewing  Stand 


ABC 


Light  &  Life  Hour 


News 
9:05GreatComposers 

Voice  of  Prophecy 


News 

10:05  Message  Of 

Israel 
News 
10:35  College  Choir 


Sunday  Melodies 
11:05    Marines    On 
Review 

News 

11:35  Christian  In 
Action 


CBS 


Renfro  Valley 
8:55  Galen  Drake 


World  News  Roundup 

The  Music  Room 
Church    Of   The   Air 


News,  Trout 
10:05  E.  Power 

Biggs 
Invitation  To 

Learning 


News 

11:05  Washington 
week 

Salt  Lake  Tabernacle 
Choir 


Afternoon    Programs 


12:00 

Monitor 

As  I  See  It 

News,   Robert  Trout 
12:05  The  Fabulous 
Dorseys 

12:15 

12:20  Basil 
Rathbone 

World  Affairs 

12:30 

The  Eternal  Light 

News,  Bill  Cunning- 
ham 

Front  And  Center 

Guy  Lombardo  Time 

12:45 

How  Christian 
Science  Heals 

12:55  Weather 
Along  The  High- 
ways 

1:00 

Monitor 

Front  Page  Exclusive 

Herald  Of  Truth 

Woolworth   Hour- 

1:15 

AmTcan  Travel 
Guide 

Percy   Faith, 
Donald  Woods 

1:30 

Lutheran  Hour 

Lutheran   Hour 

News 

1:45 

1:35   Pilgrimage 

2:00 

Monitor 

Music   From   Britain 

Dr.  Oral  Roberts 

News 

2:15 

2:05  World  Music 

2:30 

The  Catholic  Hour 

Band  Concert 

Wings  Of  Healing 

Festivals* 

3:00 

Monitor 

Bands  For  Bonds 

News 

Music  Festival  (con.) 

3:15 

3:05  Sammy  Kaye 

3:30 

Billy  Graham 

Music  On  A  Sunday 

3:45 

Afternoon 

4:00 

Monitor 

Bands  For  Bonds 

0  Id-Fashioned 

News 

4:15 

(con.) 

Revival  Hour 

4:05   Music   On  A 

4:30 

Sunday   Afternoon 

4:45 

(con.) 

5:00 

Monitor 

Lombardoland, 

Disaster 

News 

5:15 

5:05  World  Theater 

U.S.A. 

5:25  Van  Voorhis, 
News 

5:05  Indictment 

5:30 

Bands  For  Bonds 

Sports 

Fort  Laramie 

5:45 

(con.) 
5:5b    Wismer, 
Baseball  Scores 

5:35  High  Moment 

'9/9  Bach  Festival,  Ansbach,  Germany;  9/16  8.  23  Salz- 
burg Festival,  Austria;  9/30  Bayreuth  Wagnerian  Festival. 


Evening    Programs 


6:00 

Monitor 

Walter  Winchell 

Don  Gardner,  News 

News 

6:05  News  Series 

6:15 

Tomorrow's 
Headlines 

Paul  Harvey 

6:30 

News 

6:35  Meet  The  Press 

William  Hillman 

Quincy  Howe 

Gunsmoke 

6:45 

This  Fabled  World 
6:50  Sports,  Wismer 

George  Sokolsky 

7:00 

Monitor 

By  The  People 

News 

7:05  Bryson  Rash 

News  Analysis 
7:05  Mitch  Miller 

7:15 

Overseas  Assignment 

Show 

7:30 

Pan-American 
Panorama 

Sports 

7:35  All  Star 

7:45 

Country   Show 

7:55  Weather  Along 
The  Highways 

8:00 

Monitor 

Hour  Of  Decision 

News 

8:05  All  Star  Country 

News,  George  H»rman 
8:05  Meet  Corliss 

8:15 

Show  (con.) 

Archer 

8:30 

Lutheran  Hour 

Sports 

Two  For  The  Money 

9:00 

Monitor 

Sounding  Board 

N3WS 

News 

9:15 

Tomorrow's 

9:05  Country  Show 

9:05  Summer  In 

Headlines 

(con.) 

St.  Louis 

9:30 

Manion  Forum 

Sports 

9:35  Country  Show 

Music  From 
Steel  Pier 

9:45 

Keep  Healthy 
Wings  Of  Healing 

(con.) 

9:55  Jim  McKay 

10:00 

Billy  Graham 

News,  E.  D.  Canham 

News 

10:15 

Travel  Talk 

10:05  Face  The  Na- 
tion 

10:30 

American  Forum 

Bonsoir  Paris 

Revival  Time 

Church  Of  The  Air 

See   Next  Page- 


75 


I 


TV  program  highlights 


NETWORKS 

0  CBS  flagship  station 
G  NBC  flagship  station 
©   ABC  flagship  station 


NEW  YORK  CITY  AND  SUBURBS  AND  NEW  HAVEN  CHANNEL   8,  SEPTEMBER  6— OCTOBER  3 

Q  Hour  Glass— English  films 
8:30  0  Climax— Suspense.  Except  9/6,  Show- 
er Of  Stars— Musical  revue 
©  Dragnet— New  series  9/13 
9:00  ©  People's  Choice— Cooper  comedy 

0  Pro  Wrestling— Live  with  grunts 
9:30  0  Four  Star  Playhouse 

©  (GO  at  10)  Ford  Theater-9/13,  "All 
for  a  Man,"  Linda  Darnell;  9/20,  "The  Pay- 
off,"  Janet    Blair;   9/27,   "On   the    Beach,' 
Irene  Dunne. 
10:00  0  Arthur  Murray  Party— Katie  stai 
©  Lux  Video  Theater— Hour  drama 
10:30  0  Quiz  Kids— Prodigious 

O  Racket  Squad— Reed  Hadley  stars 


Baseball 

on  TV 

R — Road  Game 

DATE 

TIME 

CH.                  GAME 

DATE 

TIME 

CH.                  GAME 

SEPTEMBER 

8:00 

11  Mil.  vs.  Giants 

6,Th. 

7:55 

9  Giants  vs.  Dodgers 

18,  Tu. 

1:30 

11  Chi.  vs.  Giants 

7,Fri. 

7:55 

9  Giants  vs.  Dodgers 

8:00 

9  St.  L.  vs.  Dodgers 

11  Wash.  vs.  Yanks 

9:00 

11  Yanks  vs.  Chi.— R 

8,  Sat. 

2:00 

2  Chi.  vs.  Cleve. 

19,  Wed. 

1:30 

11  Chi.  vs.  Giants 

2:00 

8,  9  Giants  vs.  Dodgers 

1:30 

9  St.  L.  vs.  Dodgers 

2:00 

■  11  Wash.  vs.  Yanks 

21,  Fri. 

8:00 

11  Phil.  vs.  Giants 

9,  Sun. 

2:00 

8, 9  Giants  vs.  Dodgers 

22,  Sat. 

2:00 

2  Yanks  vs.  Boston — R 

2:00 

11  Wash.  vs.  Yanks 

2:00 

8, 11  Phil.  vs.  Giants 

11,  Tu. 

1:30 

11  Cine.  vs.  Giants 

23,  Sun. 

2:00 

8,11  Phil.  vs.  Giants 

7:55 

9  Mil.  vs.  Dodgers 

24,  Mon. 

8:00 

11  Yanks  vs.  Bait.— R 

12,  Wed. 

1:30 

9  Mil.  vs.  Dodgers 

25,  Tu. 

1:30 

11  Pgh.  vs.  Giants 

1:30 

11  Cine.  vs.  Giants 

8:00 

9  Phil.  vs.  Dodgers 

13,  Th. 

8:00 

11  St.  L.  vs.  Giants 

8:00 

11  Yanks  vs.  Bait.— R 

14,  Fri. 

1:30 

11  St.  L.  vs.  Giants 

26,  Wed. 

1:30 

9  Phil.  vs.  Dodgers 

7:55 

9  Chi.  vs.  Dodgers 

28,  Fri. 

8:00 

9  Pgh.  vs.  Dodgers 

15,  Sat. 

2:00 

2,  8,  9  Chi.  vs.  Dodgers 

8:15 

11  Boston  vs.  Yanks 

2:00 

11  St.  L.  vs.  Giants 

29,  Sat. 

2:00 

2,8,11  Boston  vs.  Yanks 

16,  Sun. 

2:00 

8, 9  Cine.  vs.  Dodgers 

2:00 

9  Pgh.  vs.  Dodgers 

2:00 

11  Mil.  vs.  Giants 

30,  Sun. 

2:00 

9  Pgh.  vs.  Dodgers 

17,  Mon. 

8:00 

9  Cine.  vs.  Dodgers 

2:00 

11  Boston  vs.  Yanks 

Note:  World  Series  starts  October  3  on 

NBC 

O  and  takes 

precedence  over  regularly  scheduled   programs. 

Monday  through  Friday 


7:00 
8:00 
8:30 
9:00 
10:00 
10:30 

11:00 
11:30 
12:00 

12:15 
12:30 

12:45 
1:00 

1:10 
1:30 

2:00 

2:30 

3:00 


3:30 
4:00 

4:15 
4:30 
5:00 

7:15 
7:45 
11:00 
11:10 
11:15 
11:30 


©  Today— Getaway  with    Garroway 
0  Captain  Kangaroo — Kids'  choice 
0  Ifs   Fun   To   Reduce— Figure  control 
©  Herb  Sheldon— Nice   and    easygoin' 
0  Garry  Moore-and  merrier 
0  Godfrey    Time— Mon.    thru    Thurs. 
©  Bandstand— Bert  Parks,   emcee 
©  Home — Arlene  Francis,  femcee 
0  Strike  It  Rich-Hull's  here 
0  Valiant  Lady— Flora  Campbell  stars 
©  Tic  Tac  Dough— Jack  Barry  quiz 
0  HO  Love  Of  Life— Stars  Jean  McBride 
0  GO  Search  For  Tomorrow— Serial 
©  It  Could  Be  You— Bill  Leyden  emcee 
0  GO  Guiding  Light— Jim  Lipton  stars 
0  Charles  Collingwood— News 
©One  For  Sheldon— Herbie  again 
0  Stand  Up  &  Be  Counted— Panel 
0  As  The  World  Turns— Serial 
©  Jinx  Falkenburg— Pretty  &  pertinent 
0  Johnny  Carson  Show— Variety 
0  Richard  Willis— Beauty  advice 
0  GO  Art  Linkletter's  House  Party 
©  Tennessee  Ernie— Souped-up  Ford 
0  Big  Payoff— Randy  Merriman  quiz 
©  Matinee  Theater— Hour  teleplays 
O  00  Film  Festival— British  movies 
0  Ted  Steele — Happy-go-lucky  variety 
0  Bob  Crosby— Swing  &  sing 
0  Brighter  Day— Sunny  serial 
©  Queen  For  A  Day— Royal  fun 
0  Secret  Storm— Peter  Hobbs  stars 
0  Edge  Of  Night— John  Larkin  stars 
©  I  Married  Joan— Begins  9/24. 
0  Virginia    Graham— Tic-talk  for 
O  John  Daly's  Comments— News 
©  News  Report— Swayze 
O  Cecil  Brown— News 
0  Night  Show— Feature  Films 
0  The  Late  Show— Feature  films 
©  Tonight— Steve  Allen-Wed.,  Th 


gals 


Fri. 


Monday  P.M. 


76 


7:30  0  GO  Bold  Journey— True-life  adventures 
8:00  0  Burns  &  Allen— New  series 

©  Producers'    Showcase— 9/17;    Ad- 
ventures Of  Sir  Launcelot— Begins  9/24 

0  Dorothy  Mack— Musicmimics 
8:30  f%  Talent  Scouts— Godfrey's  show 

©  Stanley — Buddy  Hackett  begins  9/29 

0  GO  Voice  Of  Firestone— Concerts 


9:00  0  QO  Charlie  Farrell  Show— Comedy 
©  Impact— Melodrama 
0  Film  Fair-9/10,  "Hard  To  Be  Good," 
Ann  Crawford;  9/17,  "History  of  Mr.  Polly," 
John  Mills;  9/24,  "It's  Not  Cricket,"   Basil 
Radford;   10/1,  "The  Long  Memory" 
9:30  0  The  Vic  Damone  Show— Songs 
©  Robert  Montgomery  Presents 
10:00  0  ID  Studio  One— Returns  9/19. 
1 0:30  ©  Doug  Fairbanks  Presents 


Tuesday 


7:00  ©  Gildersleeve— Willard  Waterman 
7:30  0  Name  That  Tune— Mu$ical  quiz 
0  Waterfront — Preston  Foster  stars 
8:00  0  Phil  Silvers  Show— New  series  9/18 
©  Chevy  Show— Revue— 9/18  &   10/2; 
Ray    Bolger's   Washington   Square,   9/25 
&  10/9. 
9:00  0  Joe  &  Mabel— Comedy 

©  Jane  Wyman  Show— Stories 
O  Broken  Arrow — Indian  agent's  life 
9:30  0  Spotlight  Theater 

©  Kaiser  Theater-Circle  Theater 
10:00  0  0  $64,00  Question-Hal  March 

0  The  Big  Picture— Army  documentary 
10:30  0  Do  You  Trust  Your  Wife?— Bergen 
©  Big  Town— Mark  Stevens  stars 
0  Women  Want  To  Know— Panel 


Wednesday 


7:30  0  Pick  The  Winner— Political  debate 

O  jji]  Disneyland— New  series  9/24 
8:00  0  The  Arthur  Godfrey  Show— Variety 
©  Adventures  Of  Hiram  Holliday— 
New  Wally  Cox  comedy 
8:30  ©  Father  Knows  Best— Bob  Young  stars 
9:00  0  The  Millionaire— Stories 

©  Kraft  Theater— Live,  hour  plays 
O  GO  Screen  Directors'  Playhouse 
9:30  0  I've  Got  A  Secret— Moore's  back 
O  |T]  Eddy  Arnold  Show— Music  time 
10:00  0  U.S.  Steel  Hour-20th  Century-Fox 
Hour— Drama 

©  This  Is  Your  Life-Live  9/27. 
O  GO  Boxing— Headline  events 
10:30  ©  Twenty-one— Jack  Barry  quiz 


Thursday 


8:00  0  Bob  Cummings  Show— Forceful 

©  You  Bet  Your  Life— The  Marxsman 


:h," 


Friday 


7:30  0  My  Friend  Flicka— About  a  filly 
0  I  Spy— Raymond  Massey  thriller 

8:00  0  Hollywood  Summer  Theater 

©  Truth  Or  Consequences— Lotsa  lafifs 
0  Sherlock  Holmes— Vintage  Dragnet 
0  GO  Adventures    Of    Jim     Bowie- 
Scott  Forbes  as  frontier  hero 

8:30  0  Our  Miss  Brooks— Last  times 
©  Life  Of  Riley— Still  reruns 

9:00  ©  Best  In  Mystery— Whodunits 
0  Crusader— Melodramas 
0  Treasure  Hunt— Jan  Murray  quiz 

9:30  0  Schlitz  Playhouse— Dramas 
©  Star  Stage— Last  month 
10:00  0  The  Line-Up-Returns  9/28. 

©  Boxing— With  Jimmy,  the  Powerhouse 
0  GO  Polka  Time— Live  and  lively 
10:30  0  Person  To  Person— Returns  9/14 


Saturday 


2:30-4:15  ©  NCAA    Football  -  3:15,    9/22, 
Georgia    Tech    vs.    Kentucky;    2:30,    9/29, 
Cornell   vs.   Colgate;  4:15,   10/6,  Arkansas 
vs.  Texas  Christian 
6:00  0  Telephone  Time— John  Nesbitt 
6:15  ©  Patti  Page— Sings  on  film 
6:30  0  Beat  The  Clock— Bud  Collyer  emcees 
7:00  0  Saturday  Sports  Mirror 
7:30  0  Buccaneer— Begins  9/29. 

©  Down  You  Go— Dr.  Evans  panelmeister 
8:00  0  'GO  Jackie  Gleason  Show— Full  hour 
&  live,  premieres  9/29 
©  Como  returns  9/15 
9:00  0  Oh!  Susanna— Gale  Storm  9/24 
©  Caesar's  Hour— Premieres  9/15. 
Spectacular,  9/29 

0  GO  Lawrence  Welk— Family  favorite 
9:30  0  Hey,  Jeannie— Jeannie  Carson 
©  Festival  Of  Stars— Ford  reruns 
©  Encore  Theater— Reruns  from  G-E 
10:00  0  Gunsmoke— Adult  Westerns 

0  Passport  To  Adventure— via  Romero 
10:30  0  High  Finance— Dennis  James  quiz 
©  Your  Hit  Parade— Returns  9/8 


Sunday 


6:30  0  You  Are  There— History  alive 
7:30  0  GO  Jock  Benny— New  series  9/23 
©  Circus  Boy— Premieres  9/23. 
O  Film  Festival— British  film 
8:30  0  GO  Ed   Sullivan   Show— Elvis   Presley 

©  Steve  Allen  Show— Variety 
9:00  0  G-E  Theater— New  series  9/23. 

©  Goodyear-Alcoa   Playhouse— Live 
hour 
0  GO  Original  Amateur  Hour 
9:30  0  Alfred  Hitchcock  Presents— Supense 
10:00  0  $64,000  Challenge— Foxy  quiz 

©  Loretta  Young  Show— Dramas.  9/9, 
"Take    Care    of    Your    Child";    9/16,    "The 
Years     Between";    9/23,    "Saigon";    9/30. 
"Little  League." 
10:30  0  UD  What's  My  Line?— Job  game 


A  Royal  Good  Time 

(Continued  from  page  51) 
Edie  a  long-stemmed  rose  every  month  on 
the  twelfth,  their  wedding  date.  He's  the 
doting  kind  of  father  who  spends  ninety 
percent  of  his  free  time  with  the  children. 
Around  the  family  table  he  exchanges  a 
look  with  Edie  that  means:  "There's  more 
fun  in  two  kids  than  in  ten  blocks  of  night 
clubs."  The  daughters  are  Betty,  nine, 
and  Kip,  seven.  Both  are  brunette,  pretty 
and  precocious.  Unfortunately,  they  are 
also  confirmed  French-fried-potato  smug- 
glers. 

"Tuesday  is  cook's  night  out,  so  we 
usually  take  the  kids  to  a  restaurant," 
Ernie  explains.  "Last  time,  as  usual, 
they  ordered  French-fries  with  their 
chicken.  But,  by  the  time  it  was  served, 
they  had  stuffed  themselves  with  rolls. 
They  had  no  appetite  for  the  chicken. 
Only  for  the  potatoes.  So  we  put  our 
collective  foot  down  and  said  they  had  to 
eat  the  chicken  first — which  they  didn't. 
Then  I  asked  the  waiter  to  put  the  chick- 
en in  a  bag,  so  we  could  take  it  home. 
And  guess  what  Kippy's  doing?  She's 
frantically  wedging  French-fried  potatoes 
under  the  skin   of  her   chicken." 

Ernie  continues,  "I  tried  to  draw  up  a 
contract  with  them:  'We  the  undersigned, 
Betty  and  Kippy  Kovacs,  agree  on  this 
tenth  day  of  the  eighth  month  of  nineteen- 
hundred-and-fifty-six  to  abide  by  the 
rules  and  laws  herein  referring  to  the 
consumption  of  rolls  and  potatoes  in 
quantities  as  specified  in  consideration  of 
our  ability  to  consume  and  digest  propor- 
tionate amounts  of  .  .  .'  Well,  it  went  on 
that  way  and  Kippy,  an  innocent,  was 
about  to  sign  when  Betty,  older  and  skep- 
tical, asked:  'Does  this  mean  that  we'll 
have  to  eat  our  meat?'  I  told  her  that  it 
did,  and  she  refused  to  sign." 

The  Kovacs  always  eat  together,  but 
usually  at  home.  Ernie  has  a  seventeen - 
room  duplex  penthouse.  It's  literally  a 
castle  in  the  sky.  As  you  enter,  you  walk 
into  a  hallway  filled  with  medieval  para- 
phernalia: A  suit  of  armour,  battle  axes, 
lances,  a  pope's  chair,  shields,  breast 
plates,  authentic  cannons — and  cannon 
balls.  Ernie  is  a  collector  of  medieval 
armament  and  old  firearms. 

Off  the  main  hall,  on  the  first  floor,  are 
the  family  bedrooms  and  the  children's 
playroom.  Throughout,  the  furniture  is 
antique.  There  are  impressive  busts  and 
gold-scrolled  mirrors  and  bare-cheeked 
cherubs  and  bandy-legged  tables.  In  the 
children's  playroom — in  addition  to  dolls 
and  toys  and  a  pair  of  parakeets — there  is 
a  ballet  bar  and  a  huge  wall-mirror  for 
home  study.  There  are  eight  bathrooms 
scattered  throughout  the  duplex.  There 
is  a  gold  one  for  Edie,  a  blue  one  for  the 
kids,  and,  for  Ernie,  a  black  one — so  he 
can  wipe  his  hands  on  the  wall.  The 
master  bedroom  itself  is  a  royal  blue 
room.  Ernie  dresses  there,  but  he  sleeps 
only  briefly. 

Ernie  seldom  sleeps  more  than  one  and 
a  half  to  three  hours  a  night.  He's  been 
going  on  this  way  for  years.  His  current 
schedule  calls  for  him  to  be  at  the  WABC 
studios — ABC  Radio's  flagship  station — at 
six  on  weekday  mornings,  for  a  three- 
"lour  stint.    At  nine  he  is  off  the  air  and, 

itil  just  recently,  he  was  then  rushing 
to  Radio  City  for  his  NBC-TV  telecast  at 
ten-thirty.  Three  Monday  nights  out  of 
four  he  fills  the  hour  vacated  by  Sid 
Caesar.  Usually,  he  gets  back  to  his  of- 
fice at  four-thirty  in  the  afternoon  and 
works  until  six  at  the  typewriter.  From 
six  to  eight-thirty,  he  is  at  dinner  and 
play  with  the  kids  and  Edie.    From  eight - 

lirty  until  two  or  three  in  the  morning, 
le  is  back  at  the  typewriter.  Says  Edie: 
"This  is  my  only  complaint  about  Ernie — 


STOP  PAW  INSTANTLY 

tompho-Phenique 

«•  FEVER  BLISTERS 

COLD  SORES^GUM  BOILS 


Not  only  do  fever  blisters  heal  faster,  but  the  same  thing  hap- 
pens when  Campho-Phenique  is  used  on  cold  sores,  gum  boils. 
Wonderfully  soothing  too,  for  minor  burns,  poison  ivy,  itching 
of  insect  bites.  And  Campho-Phenique  is  a  highly  effective, 
pain-relieving  antiseptic  for  minor  cuts  and  scratches  from 
paring  knives,  can  openers,  tin  cans,  etc.  Used  on  pimples, 
Campho-Phenique  helps  prevent  their  spread  and  re-infection. 


B*^'-,«iyi»iff^ 


WW»w»trrt- 


BE  A  BEAUTY  ADVISOR 


I  Show  You  How 


Previous  experience  unnecessary.  Make 
as  much  as  $5.00  in  one  hour  just  advis- 
ing friends  and  neighbors  on  proper  use  of 
famous  Studio  Girl  Hollywood  Cosmetics. 
Become  an  expert  with  only  a  few  hours  study. 
All  information  free.  If  you  send  name  today 
I  will  also  send  free  samples — no  charge  now 
or  at  any  other  time.  Send  your  name  to  me. 
Harry  Taylor,  President,  at  address  below. 

STUDIO  GIRL  HOLLYWOOD  COSMETICS 
DEPT.      386X0  GLENDALE  4,  CALIFORNIA 


Dangers  of 

Colon  Troubles 

FREE   BOOK— Explains   Related 
Chronic  Ailments 


Avoid 
Dangers 
f  Delay 


Learn  about  Colon  troubles.  Stomach  con- 
ditions. Piles  and  other  rectal  conditions. 
Causes,  effects  and  treatment,  130-page  book 
sent  FREE.  McCleary  Clinic  and  Hospital. 
1023  Elms  Blvd..  Excelsior  Springs  3,  Mo. 


LEARN  AT  HOME 

•  to  be  a  Nurse's  Aide 

•  Practical   Nurse 

•  or  Infant  Nurse 

Prepare  In  spare  time  for  a  fascinating,  high-pay  career. 
Thousands  of  men  and  women,  18-60,  are  graduates  of 
this  physician-endorsed  course.  High  school  not  required. 
Easy  payments;  earn  as  your  learn.  Trial  plan.  57th  year. 
CHICAGO  SCHOOL  OF  NURSING 
Dept.  210.  25  East  Jackson  Blvd..  Chicago  4.  III. 
Please  send  me  free  booklet  and  16  sample  lesson  pages. 

Name . . . 

City 


State 


No  Nagging 
Backache  Means  a 
Good  Night's  Sleep 

Nagging  backache,  headache,  or  muscular  aches  and 
pains  may  come  on  with  over-exertion,  emotional  up- 
sets or  day  to  day  stress  and  strain.  And  folks  who 
eat  and  drink  unwisely  sometimes  suffer  mild  bladder 
irritation.. .with  that  restless,  uncomfortable  feeling. 

If  you  are  miserable  and  worn  out  because  of 
these  discomforts,  Doan's  Pills  often  help  by  their 
pain  relieving  action,  by  their  soothing  effect  to  ease 
bladder  irritation,  and  by  their  mild  diuretic  action 
through  the  kidneys— tending  to  increase  the  output 
of  the  15  miles  of  kidney  tubes. 

So  if  nagging  backache  makes  you  feel  d  ragged-out , 
miserable,  with  restless,  sleepless  nights,  don't  wait, 
try  Doan's  Pills,  get  the  same  happy  relief  millions 
have  enjoyed  for  over  60  years.  Ask  for  new,  large, 
economy  size  andsavemoney.  Get  Doan's  Pills  today  I 


New  Way  to  Remove  Dandruff 

New  concentrated  DANDRICIDE  RINSE  releases  anti-dandruff 
action  no  ordinary  tonic  or  shampoo  can  duplicate 

WHY    HAVE    DANDRUFF?    Tonight,   you    can 


have    a    cleaner    scalp,    healthier    looking    hair, 
gleaming  with  a  soft  clean   sheen! 

With  new  Dandricide,  loose  itchy  dandruff  is 
removed  instantly  with  a  unique  anti-dandruff, 
scalp  conditioning  rinse   action! 

Old  fashioned  dandruff  "tonics"  or  shampoos 
may  merely  dissolve  dandruff  scales,  only  to  have 
them  return  in  a  few  days.  New  Dandricide  rinses 
loose  dandruff  OUT  . . .  really  cleans  the  scalp 
.  . .  fights  the  fast  return  of  unsightly,  itchy  dan- 
druff as  no  tonic  or  shampoo  can! 


Concentrated  to  last  longerl  Easy  to  usel 
Because  it's  concentrated,  you  get  12  Dandricide 
rinses  in  a  $1.00  bottle.  Just  mix  with  water  as 
directed,  rinse  and  that's  all!  Get  Dandricide  at 
drug  and  department  stores,  beauty  and  barber 
shops. 


T 
V 
R 

77 


he  never  knows  when  to  stop  working." 

Ernie  wakes  at  4:30  a.m.  He  wakes 
happy,  but  there  is  no  one  to  try  it  on 
except  Lou  Pack,  a  cabdriver.  Lou  and 
Ernie  have  an  arrangement.  Lou  comes 
up  to  the  apartment  about  five,  lets  him- 
self in  and  starts  breakfast:  "Lou's  been 
cooking  the  eggs  and  I've  been  doing  the 
coffee  and  bacon.  We  switched  recently 
and  the  coffee  is  turning  out  better,  but 
Lou  brags  about  it  too  much." 

After  breakfast,  Lou  drives  Ernie  to  the 
ABC  studios.  But  first,  he  leaves  a  note 
or  a  couple  of  clippings  in  the  kitchen 
for  Edie.  Lou  Pack  is  one  of  the  many 
people  who  belong  to  the  "I  Love  Edie 
Adams  Club."  Edie,  a  beautiful  blonde, 
is  famous  for  her  beautiful  disposition. 

"Edie  is  a  doll  of  dolls,"  says  Ernie. 
"She  could  teach  angels.  She  has  no 
temperament.  She  can  be  exhausted,  and 
the  orchestra  crosses  her  up,  and  she  is 
still  smiling.  She  doesn't  break  down; 
she  breaks  up.  Other  day  on  the  show, 
the  cue  boy  held  his  card  upside  down. 
She  didn't  fluster  or  fume.    She  laughed." 

She  is  a  gal  of  considerable  talent. 
George  Abbott,  who  cast  her  as  Eileen  in 
the  Broadway  stage  hit,  "Wonderful 
Town,"  describes  her  as:  "A  beautiful  girl 
with  a  wonderful  voice — but  her  greatest 
assets  are  sincerity  and  versatility." 

Edie  was  born  Edith  Enke  in  Kingston, 
a  town  in  Pennsylvania  Dutch  territory, 
but  her  family  later  moved  to  Tenafly, 
New  Jersey.  She  began  studying  voice 
at  an  early  age  and  went  on  to  the  Juil- 
liard  School  of  Music  and  the  Columbia 
University  School  of  Dramatic  Arts,  with 
opera  in  mind.  When  she  tried  her  voice 
at  pop  songs,  she  wound  up  on  Arthur 
Godfrey's  Talent  Scouts  program.  She 
didn't  win — but  her  showing  led  to  a  job 
in  Philadelphia,  where  she  met  and 
worked  with  Ernie  at  WPTZ. 

Ernie  was  born  in  Trenton,  New  Jersey. 
He  is  one  of  two  sons.  His  brother  Tom 
works  as  a  civilian  for  the  Air  Force. 
Ernie  was  the  first  and  only  one  in  the 
family  to  show  an  interest  in  show  busi- 
ness. In  high  school,  he  sang  in  operettas 
and  did  so  well  that  he  was  offered  seven 
scholarships.  He  took  to  singing  in  stock 
and  working  in  summer  theaters.  In  the 
first  year,  he  advanced  so  rapidly  as  an 
artist  that  he  achieved  a  paying  job — in 
a  drug  store.  (At  the  time,  Ernie  was 
also  the  sole  support  of  his  mother.) 
After  a  while,  Ernie  ran  out  of  patience 
with  his  job— and  the  store  ran  out  of 
cigars — so  they  parted  company.  He 
again  joined  up  with  a  stock  company. 
But  he  was  working  hard  and  eating  lit- 
tle and,  when  he  took  ill  in  1939,  he 
nearly  died.  He  went  to  the  hospital 
with  pneumonia  and  pleurisy,  and  he  was 
there    eighteen    months. 

"I  didn't  have  a  cent,  for  three  of  those 
eighteen  months,"  he  recalls.  "I  was  at 
the  city  hospital  on  Welfare  Island.  I 
guess  there  were  a  couple  hundred  in  the 
ward.  And  you  see  a  lot  of  heartbreaking 
things  in  a  place  like  that.  It's  terrible, 
too,  when  you're  young  and  confined  to 
bed  for  such  a  long  time.  The  good  side 
to  it  was  that  I  began  to  listen  to  good 
music  on  the  radio.  That  was  the  first  I 
really  had  a  chance  to  listen  to  as  much 
as  I  wanted.    I  read  a  book  a  day." 

He  finally  left  the  hospital  in  1941  and 
eventually  got  into  radio.    In  Trenton  and 
Philadelphia,  he  worked  as  a  disc  jockey, 
special    events    director,    and    news    an- 
nouncer.   He  was  good  at  either.    He  won 
the  H.  P.  Davis  Award  for  his  reporting 
and  an  invitation  from  NBC  to  bring  his 
"Early    Eyeball    Fraternal    Marching    So- 
T    ciety"  to  New  York.    That  was   in   1951. 
v    On  September  12,  1954,  he  and  Edie  were 
«    married.    At   the   time,    she   was   touring 
1    with  "Wonderful  Town"  in  Texas.    They 
skipped  across  the  border  to  the  office  of 


William  O'Dwyer,  former  mayor  of  New 
York  and  ambassador  to  Mexico. 

"Bill  made  all  the  arrangements,"  Edie 
recalls.  "The  ceremony  was  in  Spanish 
and  he  stood  behind  us  and  whispered, 
'Now  you  say,  'Si,  Edie.'" 

They  had  a  wonderful  honeymoon  in 
Mexico — which  was  lucky,  since  it  was 
their  last  vacation  until  spring  of  this 
past  year,  when  all  four  Kovacs  took  sev- 
enteen days  abroad. 

"Now  that  was  something  for  you," 
Ernie  says.  "We  flew  over  and  planned 
to  travel  light.  A  couple  dresses  apiece 
for  Edie  and  the  kids.  I  had  a  couple  of 
dacron  shirts  made.  We  figured  maybe 
two  or  three  bags  for  the  lot  of  us.  Well, 
we  walked  out  with  ten  suitcases.  We 
came  back  with  fourteen,  plus  an  over- 
size duffel  bag." 

Ernie  continues:  "The  kids  were  a  riot. 
We  were  in  a  gondola  and  there  was  a 
high-class,  high-cost  guide  explaining  the 
sights  of  Venice.  The  kids  looked  like 
they  were  hunched  over,  taking  in  every 
word,  but  there  was  something  suspicious 
about  them  and  I  investigated.  They 
were   reading   American    comic   books." 

Ernie  confiscated  the  books  and  told  the 
children  to  show  more  interest  in  the 
view  of  Venice.  They  did,  almost  immedi- 
ately, and  pointed  intuitively  to  a  build- 
ing on  the  bank. 

"What's  that?"  Betty  asked. 

"That  is  a  cinema,"  the  guide  said. 

"Daddy,  can  we?" 

Ernie  grins  and  recalls,  "That's  what  we 
did,  too.  We  got  out  of  the  Gondola  and 
went  to  see  a  movie.  It  was,  of  course,  all 
in  Italian." 

The  children  are  by  Ernie's  first  mar- 
riage. Ernie  and  Edie  are  devoted  to  them, 
and  he  exults  in  Edie's  relationship  with 
them.  He  says,  "You  know  I've  never  seen 
her  curry  their  favor.  It's  easy  to  win  a 
child's  immediate  affection  by  giving  him 
all  the  candy  or  anything  else  he  wants, 
but  Edie  takes  the  sane  approach.  Modera- 
tion. Judgment.  On  the  other  hand  she 
doesn't  mind  overexerting  herself. 

"I've  seen  her  leave  the  studio,  dead 
tired,  and  she  says  that  she's  going  shop- 
ping. I  tell  her  to  go  home  and  rest.  She 
says,  'One  little  stop  in  town.'  I  tell  her 
no.  She  says,  'I  need  some  things.'  I  tell 
her  to  order  by  phone.  She  tells  me  that 
she  can't.  That  evening  she  creeps  into  the 
apartment  loaded  with  bundles.  She  won't 
open  them.  Not  right  away.  She's  afraid 
of  my  Hungarian  temper.  But,  a  few  days 
later,  she  begins  to  open  the  boxes — and, 
of  course,  they  are  all  clothes  and  toys 
for  the  kids." 

Ernie's  "hot  Hungarian  temper"  is  like 
a  match  lit  in  a  high  wind.  It  is  about 
that  hot  and  lasts  about  that  long.  "We 
know  he's  just  letting  off  steam,"  says 
Edie,  "and  give  him  the  polite,  quiet 
treatment.  We  know  that,  a  minute  later, 
he  will  be  laughing  again." 

Ernie  works  on  the  second  floor  of  the 
duplex,  and  it  is  also  on  the  second  floor 
that    the    Kovacs    have    their   dining    and 


GOT  'EM  COVERED! 

Tennessee  Ernie  Ford 

Doris  Drew  •  Molly  Bee 

in  a  full-color  portrait  .  .  .  and  full- 
length  features  .  .  .  plus  inside  stories 
and  pictures  of  a  whole  galaxy  of  your 
day-and-night  favorites  ...  all  in  the 

November 
TV  RADIO  MIRROR 

at  your  favorite  newsstand  October  4 


living  rooms,  which  are  finished  off  with 
gold  or  white  antique  furniture.  The  car- 
peting is  gold,  the  drapes  red,  and  the 
walls  deep  brown.  Ernie's  office  is  fur- 
nished in  "Kovacs  catch-all."  Basically, 
the  room  is  panelled  in  antique  wood,  but 
it  has  acquired  books,  a  tape  recorder, 
portable  television  set,  a  cat  named 
Schultz,  a  half-dozen  flintlock  rifles, 
thirty  antique  pistols,  dozens  of  boxes  of 
cigars,  miniature  cannons,  plaques,  an 
electric  typewriter,  records,  phonograph, 
and  a  lot  of  other  stuff — and  persons.  Be- 
sides the  Kovacs  themselves,  there  are 
seven  other  people  contributing  to  the 
servicing  of  the  household. 

Outside  the  office  is  a  room  which  would 
be  called  a  sun-porch  if  it  had  been  built 
at  street  level.  Here  the  Kovacs  keep 
porch  furniture  and  a  glass-topped  table 
for  dining  during  mild  months.  On  the 
roof  terrace,  there  are  more  lounging 
chairs  and  a  wading  pool  for  the  kids. 
The  terrace  overlooks  Central  Park.  Below 
is  the  huge,  glassy  reservoir  and  the  park 
tennis  courts.  Ernie  never  cared  much  for 
sprinting  around  reservoirs,  but  he  has 
played  a  lot  of  tennis. 

"When  we  had  to  go  across  town  to  the 
courts,  we  played,"  he  says.  "Now  that  I 
can  almost  breathe  on  the  courts,  I  don't 
have  time." 

"I  haven't  even  had  time  to  learn  to 
cook,"  Edie  notes.  "I'm  good  on  break- 
fast. I  can  make  fine  scrambled  eggs.  And 
I  make  good  desserts.  My  mother  was  a 
very  good  cook,  but  I  wasn't  allowed  to 
do  the  turkey  or  roast.  I  received  instruc- 
tion only  in  pies  and  cookies."  When  it 
comes  to  comedy,  Edie  says  fervently, 
"Ernie's  taught  me  everything  I  know. 
He's  the  boss." 

Working  together  creates  no  extra-mari- 
tal tension,  although  Ernie  thinks  he  is  a 
little  hard  on  Edie.  "Because  I  demand 
more.  I  know  what  she  can  do.  She  is  a 
wonderful  performer  and  will  go  very, 
very  far  in  the  business." 

Ernie  is  basically  easygoing  and  easy 
to  get  along  with,  in  spite  of  his  singular 
hobby  and  habit.  The  habit  is  smoking. 
He  burns  up  eighteen  or  twenty  big  cigars 
a  day.  They  are  made  of  especially  fine 
tobacco  and  give  true  cause  for  com- 
plaint. Edie  says,  "I  never  thought  I'd  get 
used  to  them — but,  if  I'm  out  of  town,  I 
really  miss  the  smell  of  Ernie's  after- 
dinner  cigar.  And  he's  very  thoughtful 
about  cold  cigars.  Those  are  the  ones  that 
really  smell  up  a  room.  Ernie  never  leaves 
one  in  an  open  tray." 

His  hobby  or  avocation  is  wiring  things. 
He  will  wire  floor  lamps,  chandeliers, 
radios — anything  and  everything.  He  has 
wired  up  what  is,  quite  likely,  the  most 
complicated   hi-fi   system   in   the   country. 

"I  can't  figure  it  out,"  Edie  says.  "I 
know  that  it  runs  into  all  of  our  television 
and  radio  receivers.  I've  tried  to  turn  it 
on,  but  Ernie  has  knobs  on  two  sides  of 
the  room  so  that  you're  running  from 
one  wall  to  another  to  adjust  the  volume 
and  tone.  No  one  understands  the  system, 
except  Ernie." 

The  two  of  them  get  out  together  about 
once  in  two  months.  Every  seventh  Fri- 
day, they  go  to  the  theater.  They  do,  how- 
ever, make  every  effort  to  keep  work 
from  interfering  with  the  children's  week- 
ends. In  the  summer,  the  four  of  them  go 
to  a  beach  motel.  In  winter,  they  visit  the 
zoo  and  museums  or  go  to  a  matinee. 
Sunday  morning,  they  regularly  go  to  the 
Central  Presbyterian  Church,  where  the 
children  sing  in  the  choir. 

"That's  about  it,"  says  Ernie.  "The  kind 
of  life  we  lead  and  the  kind  of  work 
hours  we  keep  might  seem  pretty  dull  .  .  . 
but  we  like  it — and  I'm  very  serious  about 
that."  And  that  is  the  importance  of 
Ernie's  being  earnest. 


Man  of  Many  Talents 


(Continued  from  page  29) 
amazing  how  well  one  can  get  along  with- 
out walking." 

Amazing  is  the  proper  word  for  Mr. 
Godfrey's  talents.  A  few  of  the  things 
for  which  he  has  demonstrated  a  skill  are 
ice  skating,  cycling,  judo,  and  even  walk- 
ing a  tight  rope.  He  is  a  successful  busi- 
ness man.  Among  his  interests  are  the 
Kenilworth  Hotel  and  Sortilege  Perfume. 
There  is  the  farm — with  his  family  and  his 
cattle  and  horses.  He  is  the  country's  top 
radio-TV  entertainer.  And  then  there  is 
the  airman.  Outside  of  birds  and  bats, 
there  are  few  things  that  can  get  off  the 
ground  which  Arthur  hasn't  flown.  He 
has  checked  out  in  a  blimp,  jets,  one-, 
two-  and  four-engine  planes,  fighters  and 
bombers,  helicopters  and  gliders. 

More  than  this,  he  is  one  of  the  nation's 
authorities  on  air  power.  He  traces  his 
fascination  with  flying  back  to  childhood. 
"Like  a  million  other  kids,  I  was  fas- 
cinated by  the  accounts  of  the  dogfights 
of  the  First  World  War  led  by  Captain 
Eddie  Rickenbacker.  I  got  my  first  ride  in 
a  Navy  flying  boat  at  Norfolk,  Virginia. 
I  was  an  apprentice  seaman  then.  I  began 
to  live  for  the  day  that  I'd  have  money 
enough  to  get  some  lessons." 

In  1930,  he  was  making  fifty  bucks  a 
week  as  an  announcer  in  Washington, 
D.  C,  and  began  to  get  off  the  ground  in 
a  glider.  On  September  26,  1931,  he  was  on 
his  way  out  to  the  flying  school  at  Con- 
gressional Field  when  he  smashed  up. 
Arthur  was  tooling  along  at  fifty  miles 
per  hour  when  a  truck  swung  into  his 
lane.  Arthur  suffered  forty  fractures,  in- 
cluding the  smashed  hip.  He  was  in  the 
hospital  for  months.  He  came  back  to 
work  on  crutches.  But,  before  he  could 
walk  or  drive  again,  he  was  back  at  the 
field  flying. 

When  World  War  II  broke  out,  Arthur 
had  considerable  air  time  and  it  broke 
his  heart  that  his  disability  keot  him  out 
of  the  services.  Finally,  through  a  friend, 
he  got  his  plea  to  the  White  House.  Arthur 
was  commissioned  into  the  Navy  by  Presi- 
dent Franklin  Delano  Roosevelt,  who 
commented,  "At  least  Godfrey  can  walk. 
I'm  the  Commander-in-Chief,  and  I  can't 
even  get  out  of  this  chair."  But,  of  course, 
the  hip  kept  Arthur  from  line  duty.  After 
the  war,  and  with  the  end  of  gasoline 
rationing,    he    began   flying    again. 

And  the  man  he  had  idolized  as  a  boy 
became  one  of  his  finest  friends.  That 
would  be  Capt.  Eddie  Rickenbacker,  head 
of  Eastern  Airlines.  Capt.  Rickenbacker 
sold  Arthur  a  retired  DC -3  at  book  value 
in  1950.  Arthur  had  it  completely  rebuilt, 
better  than  new,  and  his  wife  Mary  took 
on  the  interior-decorating  chores,  for  the 
DC-3  is  practically  a  second  home  for 
Arthur. 

The  DC-3  seats  fourteen,  plus  its  Cap- 
tain Arthur  Godfrey  and  his  First  Officer 
Frank  La  Vigna.  When  Arthur  isn't  in  the 
pilot's  seat,  he  can  walk  back  to  a  desk 
or  stretch  out  on  one  of  two  divans.  His 
desk  is  walnut,  and  there  is  a  matching 
cabinet.  There  is  a  telephone  to  the  down- 
stairs world.  Arthur,  enroute  to  his  farm, 
uses  the  phone  frequently  for  business 
calls,  or  merely  to  phone  his  office  and 
tell  the  gals  to  knock  off  early.  Arthur 
favors  blue  and  white.  His  horses  carry 
blue  and  white,  and  his  barns  are  blue 
and  white.  The  same  colors  cover  the  out- 
side of  his  planes  and  decorate  the  in- 
teriors. 

Perhaps  the  high  point  in  recent  years 
was  the  day  Arthur  got  his  Navy  wings. 
And  there  is  a  story.  Although  he  had 
6,000  air  hours  and  a  reserve  commission, 
the  Navy  continued  to  deny  him  the 
privilege    of   flying    naval    aircraft.    Then, 


on  Armed  Forces  Day  of  1950,  the  Air 
Force  invited  the  Redhead  to  co-pilot  a 
jet  trainer.  After  he  had  demonstrated 
his  ability  to  the  Air  Force,  they  half- 
seriously  invited  him  to  drop  his  Naval 
Reserve  commission  and  join  them. 
Arthur  immediately  mentioned  this  on 
his  program  and  he  was  just  minutes  off 
the  air  when  the  Secretary  of  Navy  called 
from  Washington  to  say  that  he  hoped 
Arthur  was  joking.  But  Arthur  laid  it  on 
the  line.  As  a  result,  he  went  to  the  naval 
base  at  Pensacola  for  instruction. 

But  again  they  tried  to  talk  him  out  of 
it.  They  told  him  the  course  took  six 
weeks  and  he  had  only  two  weeks  to  give. 
And  they  said  he  was  too  old.  The  average 
age  of  the  students  was  twenty-five. 
Arthur  was  forty-seven,  and  he  wasn't 
average.  While  other  students  flew  three 
hours  a  day,  Arthur  flew  nine.  At  night, 
his  head  felt  like  a  beehive — but  he  did 
what  had  seemed  impossible. 

Four  years  later,  in  June  of  1954,  he 
gave  up  his  naval  commission.  This  was  a 
serious  and  heartbreaking  decision,  for  his 
allegiance  to  the  Navy  had  begun  when 
he  enlisted  for  seaman  service  at  the  age 
of  seventeen.  His  reason  for  resigning  was 
strictly  patriotism.  He  said,  "I'm  sad  about 
quitting,  but  I  feel  that  I  can  best  serve 
the  interests  of  this  country  without  affili- 
ation with  any  of  the  services.  I  want  to 
be  free  to  go  around  to  all  of  them  and 
find  out  what  they're  all  about." 

And  he  has  done  just  that.  From  Air 
Secretary  Harold  E.  Talbott  he  received 
a  citation  for  "creating  an  informed  public 
opinion  about  air  power."  Senator  Lyndon 
Johnson,  Senate  leader  from  Texas,  has 
reported:  "I  spent  two  delightful  days 
with  Arthur  Godfrey  this  past  fall  in 
Texas,  at  which  time,  at  his  own  expense 
and  on  his  own  time,  he  came  to  discuss 
the  air  power  situation  in  the  United 
States  and  in  the  world.  I  think  he  is  very 
well  informed,  is  a  lovable  gentleman  and 
is  extremely  patriotic." 

Arthur  makes  about  fifteen  speeches 
a  year,  and  he  writes  his  own  speeches. 
(He  hasn't  employed  a  writer  in  any 
capacity  for  better  than  a  year.)  He  has 
done  many  other  things  that  dramatize. his 
interest  in  the  Air  Force.  Last  year,  he 
donated  $100,000  to  the  Air  Forces  Aid 
Society.  With  his  cast,  he  flew  six  thousand 
miles  across  Arctic  wilderness  to  deliver 
a  New  Year  show  at  our  air  base  in 
Thule,  Greenland.  That  was  in  1954.  On 
his  program  this  past  spring,  he  discussed 
a  special  report  on  the  Strategic  Air 
Command  with  such  enthusiasm  that  Air 
Force  Magazine  got  more  than  160,000  re- 
quests for  reprints. 

Around  two  or  three  o'clock,  Thurs- 
day afternoon,  Arthur  leaves  his  CBS 
office  to  drive  out  to  Teterboro  Airport 
in  New  Jersey.  In  either  his  Beechcraft 
Bonanza  or  his  DC-3 — depending  on  the 
weather — he  heads  for  family  and  home  in 
Leesburg,  Virginia.  When  the  blue  and 
white  ship  sets  down,  it  is  met  by  his 
wife  Mary,  a  lovely  blonde.  Usually,  his 
daughter  Pat  is  there,  too.  It  is  a  few 
minutes'  drive  to  the  farmhouse,  a  sixty- 
year-old,  six-bedroom,  red  brick  build- 
ing on  top  of  Cacotin  Ridge.  In  front  of 
the  house  is  the  swimming  pool  and,  be- 
yond that,  an  incredibly  beautiful  view  of 
the  valleys  and  hills  of  the  famous  Blue 
Ridge  range.  It  represents  peace,  sweet 
fresh  air,  a  complete  change  of  pace. 

Arthur's  land  spreads  over  two  thousand 
acres  and  the  major  part  of  it  is  given 
over  to  farming.  While  tenant  farmers 
deal  in  crops,  Arthur  himself  raises  beef 
cattle.  He  has  about  500  head,  mostly 
white-face  Herefords  crossed  with  Brah- 
mas.  The  barns  and  equipment  are  beauti- 


PRO  means 
protection — every 
nylon-bristled  PRO 
tooth  brush  has 
natural  self-sterilizing 
action.  Get  either 
famous  PRO  Tufted, 
which  reaches  teeth 
other  brushes  often  miss, 
or  PRO  "59"  with  soft, 
multiple  bristles  for  gentle 
gum  massage.  Both  in  sizes 

„.,-*     for  all  the  family. 


The  Best  is  Always  a 


PRO-PHY-LAC-TIC   BRUSH   CO. 
Florence,  Mass. 


m*6e 


On  Just  40  Exclusive 

SUPER-36    DELUXE 

CHRISTMAS  CARD 

Assortments 


Amazing 
BONUS  OFFER! 

Luxurious 
FUR  STOLE 

Yours  for  Sailing 
Only  50  Boxes!  ■ 


Think  of  ill  You  make  $1.25 

cash  on  every  SUPER-36 

DELUXE  Assortment.  Big 

box  of  Exclusive,  quality 

Christmas  Cards  sells  fast 

at  bargain  price.   Easy  to 

Bel!  50 boxes  to  yoar friends 

— and  get  a  magnificentim- 

ported  brown -dyed  genuine  Marmot  Fur 

Stole  for  yourself  on  our  BONUS  offer! 

Extra  Profits  Come  Easy! 

Have  money  to  spare  from  the  big  profits  on  rest 
of  hage  line  of  over  200  onasnal,  fast-selling 
items.  Latest  popular  SLIM  Card  Assortments 
Stationery.  Gifts  and  Novelties,  low-] 
and  deluxe  Name  -  Imprinted  Chris 
Cards.  No  experience  needed.  Se 
money.  New  assortments  on  approval 
Of  Bargains,  Color  Catalog,  amazing  i 
log  Shopping  Plan  and  Album  of  Im 
Samples  FREE.    Send  coupon  NOW! 


MAIL  NOW  FOR  SAMPLES! 


'FACTORY  SUmUS\ 

BARGAINS 

$|   SOXES  FOB  35l 

While  Tn  ey  Last! 


I    MIDWEST  CARD  CO..  Dept.  521-T 
1113  Washington  Ave..  St.  Louis  1,  Missouri 

Please  send  samples  on  approval  and  money-making  details 
|    Including  Fur  Offer  and  Album  FREE. 

I   NAME 

|    ADDBESS 

|    CITS" : STATE——— 


T 

V 
R 

79 


ful  and  modern.  Arthur  himself  contrib- 
uted an  invention  that  feeds  250  cattle 
at  a  time  with  the  press  of  a  button. 
There  are,  of  course,  stables  for  his  famous 
horses,  and  there  is  an  indoor  ice-skating 
rink  which  was  converted  to  a  television 
studio  for  his  horse  show  from  the  farm. 
But  Arthur  is  no  gentleman — no  "gentle- 
man farmer,"  that  is.  He  resents  the  ex- 
pression, for  the  farm  is  not  a  toy,  not 
an  income  tax  deduction.  The  farm  makes 
money,  and  of  this  he  is  proud.  It  is 
characteristic  of  Arthur  that  he  doesn't 
like  waste. 

"I'll  tell  you  how  Arthur  relaxes  on  the 
farm,"  one  of  the  cast  does  tell  you,  after 
a  weekend  there.  "He  works.  He  runs  the 
tractor  or  cultivator.  I  know.  He  wore 
me  out  in  a  half-hour.  You  can  wear  out, 
just  following  him  around." 

His  farm  work  seldom  begins  until  Fri- 
day. Thursday  evening  is  spent  at  dinner 
with  the  family,  catching  up  on  news  of 
the  kids  and  farm.  After  dinner,  there  is 
more  talk  and  a  cigar  and  bed  by  eleven. 
Friday  morning,  there  is  one  more  broad- 
cast from  his  study,  a  small  room  with 
little  more  than  a  few  books  and  a  desk. 
Sometimes,  Arthur  wakes  to  a  cup  of  tea 
just  minutes  before  the  show  goes  on — 
wrapped  in  a  robe  and  still  yawning  when 
the  mike  is  opened.  Most  mornings,  from 
the  first  of  May  to  early  November,  he 
goes  from  bed  to  the  pool.  "It's  great  for 
your  circulation,"  he  says,  "and  you 
either  wake  up  or  drown."  When  he  does 
dress,  it  is  either  in  work  clothes  or  for 
riding,  or  in  a  sport  shirt  as  brilliant  as 
the  things  he  kids  Tony  Marvin  about. 
In  his  mouth  is  usually  a  pipe  or  cigar. 

The  whole  Godfrey  family  tries  to  get 
together  on  special  holidays,  like  Christ- 
mas, and  during  summer  vacations.  It  is 
then  that  Arthur  gets  to  see  his  three- 
year-old  granddaughter  Diane.  Diane  lives 
in  San  Francisco,  where  Arthur's  older 
son,  Richard,  is  a  sportscaster  at  KCBS. 
Arthur,  one-time  divorced,  has  been 
married  to  Mary  Bourke,  daughter  of  an 
Army  doctor,  since  February  of  1938. 
Their  children  are  Arthur  Michael,  six- 
teen, and  Patricia  Ann,  fourteen.  Mike, 
about  Arthur's  height,  is  dark  and  hand- 
some. Mike  learned  to  drive  a  tractor  on 
the  farm  when  he  was  about  seven  and 
worked  as  a  farmhand  during  summer 
at  one  dollar  a  day.  Until  a  year  or  so 
ago,  he  and  Pat  attended  the  public  school 
in  Leesburg.  Pat  is  a  blond  beauty  who 
shares  her  parents'  love  for  horses  but 
knows  something  about  sewing  and  bak- 
ing, too.  Outside  of  nurses  at  birth,  Arthur 
and  Mary  have  taken  complete  responsi- 
bility for  raising  the  kids. 

When  Arthur  and  Mary  met,  she  was  a 
stenographer  for  NBC  in  Washington, 
D.C.,  and  Arthur  was  an  announcer. 
Occasionally,  he  and  his  uke  took  her  for 
a  canoe  ride.  But,  more  often,  their  court- 
ing dates  were  spent  on  horseback.  This 
was  a  love  they  shared  from  the  begin- 
ning. She  was  raised  on  a  horse,  for  her 
father  was  a  medical  officer  in  the  caval- 
ry. Arthur's  interest  derived  from  his 
father,  too.  Although  his  father  was  a 
magazine  editor  and  sportswriter  for  The 
New  York  Times,  his  first  devotion  was 
to  hackney  ponies  and  he  went  broke 
publishing  a  magazine  on  the  subject. 
Arthur,  although  solvent,  hasn't  had  much 
better  luck  with  his  racing  stable.  His 
chief  hope,  a  $38,500- colt  titled  Lord 
Willin',  never  did  live  up  to  expectations. 
He  would  race  and  quit.  He  proved  to  be 
a  little  too  fond  of  other  horses.  Finally, 
horses  never  get  bursitis — but  Lord  Willin' 
did.  So  far  as  horse  racing  goes,  Godfrey 
T    has  had  the  luck  of  Crosby. 

When  it  comes  to  horsemanship,  how- 
ever, it  is  another  story.  Mary  and  teen- 
aged  Pat  have  won  many  ribbons.  Arthur 
80 


put  on  a  dressage  exhibition  with  his  palo- 
mino stallion,  Cacotin  Gold,  that  won  the 
unstinted  admiration  of  every  sports  - 
writer  in  Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania,  Wash- 
ington, D.  C.  and  New  York  City. 

In  dressage,  the  discipline  and  coordi- 
nation of  horse  and  rider  reaches  the 
finest  point.  The  horse  is  directed  by  the 
imperceptible  movement  of  the  little 
fingers.  If  the  judges  spot  the  slightest 
shift  of  the  rider's  hands  or  feet,  he  is 
disqualified.  Arthur  was  two  years  on  his 
Virginia  farm  sharpening  up  his  horse- 
manship for  the  exhibition.  It  was  at  fhe 
67th  National  Horse  Show  at  Madison 
Square  Garden  that  the  social  set  gathered, 
in  minks  and  diamonds  and  top  hats. 
Sorrel-thatched  Mr.  Godfrey  and  Goldie 
had  them  all  pounding  their  palms. 

One  of  the  other  great  pleasures  in 
Arthur's  life  is  hunting.  Two  or  three 
times  a  year,  he  enplanes  for  Michigan 
to  join  the  "Cashmere  Club."  The  Club 
includes  industrial  and  political  leaders, 
VIP's  like  Defense  Secretary  C.  E.  Wilson 
and  Air  Force  General  Curtis  LeMay. 
For  a  week,  they  rough  it.  They  do  their 
own  cooking  and  cleaning  and  washing.  It 
was  an  act  of  Arthur's  which  led  to  the 
naming  of  the  group.  Because  of  the  ex- 
treme cold  on  some  trips,  Arthur  pre- 
sented each  member  with  suits  of  cash- 
mere underwear. 

Arthur  is  an  exceptional  marksman.  He 
has  an  innate  skill  for  this  kind  of  thing. 
They  tell  the  story  of  the  time  a  champion 
archer  appeared  on  the  show.  Arthur 
asked  to  try  his  hand  at  it  and  dumb- 
founded everyone  by  knocking  off  a 
couple  of  bulls- eyes.  It  was  the  first  time 
he'd  ever  held  a  real  bow  and  arrow. 

Around  the  farm,  however,  he  seldom 
uses  a  gun.  He  went  on  the  air  once  to 
criticize  a  posse  that  was  out  after  a 
bear.  Arthur  said,  "All  that  bear  wants 
is  a  few  berries.  He  should  be  left  alone." 
But  muskrats  dig  holes  in  the  pasture  and 
holes  break  horses'  legs.  When  Arthur 
hunts  muskrats,  it  is  something  to  see.  A 
muskrat,  so  distant  and  small  that  it  can't 
be  seen  by  the  naked  eye,  Arthur  picks 
off  with  a  scope-sight. 

His  interest  in  natural  preservation  is 
no  phoney.  He  practices  what  he  preaches. 
Five-hundred  acres  of  woodland  on  his 
farm  have  been  set  aside  as  a  refuge  for 
game  of  all  kinds.  He  has  built  a  couple 
of  dams  and  stocked  them  with  bass.  He 
has  set  aside  one  hundred  and  fifty  acres 
for  a  deer  park. 

Obviously,  most  of  Arthur's  hobbies  and 
interests  call  for  physical  activity.  He  has 
one  quiet  hobby,  and  that  is  photography. 
He  shoots  footage  of  hunting  trips  and  the 
kids  and  the  show,  and  keeps  a  projector 
on  hand  to  entertain  the  family.  His  real 
passion,  however,  is  gin  rummy.  If  neigh- 
bors are  visiting,  the  evening  is  usually 
spent  at  Hearts  or  gin  rummy.  But  it  is  a 
quiet  weekend,  and  that  is  the  point  of 
the  farm — to  get  away  from  the  guff  and 
fishbowl  existence  in  the  city.  Late  Sun- 
day afternoon,  he  climbs  back  into  the 
plane  and  heads  back  to  New  York  and 
to  the  major  part  of  his  life,  for  Arthur 
Godfrey  is,  first  of  all,  a  showman. 

In  New  York,  Arthur  lives  alone.  He 
has  an  apartment  which  is  a  block  away 
from  the  East  River.  He  employs  a  house- 
keeper to  keep  the  place  neat — and  to 
keep  water  steaming  for  tea.  Actually, 
Arthur  spends  few  hours  in  his  apartment. 
He  is  there  to  change  clothes  or  sleep. 
He's  admittedly  a  "slow  waker,"  and  gets 
out  of  the  apartment  just  minutes  before 
the  morning  broadcast.  After  the  morn- 
ing broadcast  on  Monday,  he  is  usually 
in  conference  on  the  Wednesday-night 
show.  Monday  night,  he  does  Talent 
Scouts.  Tuesday  afternoon,  rehearsal  be- 
gins for  the  Wednesday-night  show  and  it 


may  last  until  ten.  Wednesday  sees  dress 
rehearsal  and  the  show  itself.  After  the 
show,  there  is  a  production  meeting  for 
the  following  week's  program.  This  is  the 
skimpiest  kind  of  outline  of  his  hours 
for  they  are  crammed  with  work.  Nearly 
always,  he  eats  in  his  office  and  even 
catches  his  weekly  haircut  there.  He  is  a 
man  of  rare  vitality  who  can  refresh 
himself  with  a  five-minute  catnap. 

There  was  a  small  tempest  last  spring 
when  CBS  mistakenly  announced  that  the 
Wednesday-night  show  would  fade.  "My 
goodness,"  Godfrey  grins,  "I  was  in  Flori- 
da when  the  news  broke,  and  you  never 
saw  such  a  commotion.  I  had  to  get  on 
the  phone  with  all  the  sponsors  to  assure 
them  I'd  have  a  show  Wednesday  nights 
next  season,  CBS  just  misunderstood 
something  I've  been  complaining  about  for 
three  years."  He  wanted  to  dump  the 
format.  "In  its  present  form,  it's  too  much 
work.  I  want  to  find  something  different, 
something  that  will  be  as  interesting  as 
Talent  Scouts  and  my  morning  shows." 

oome  of  the  innovations  will  be  motion 
pictures  made  of  water-skiing — and  of 
Arthur  himself  demonstrating  a  helicopter. 
And  he  has  filmed  sailing  maneuvers 
from  a  helicopter.  These,  too,  you  are 
likely  to  see,  as  well  as  the  results  of  his 
trip  planned  for  next  spring.  In  March,  he 
will  fly  to  Africa  and  he  expects  to  shoot 
with  gun  and  camera.  However,  you  will 
continue  to  see  great  "live"  entertainers, 
for  Arthur  can  pick  them.  He  never  in- 
dulges in  boasting,  but  Carmel  Quinn  and 
the  McGuire  Sisters  and  Pat  Boone  are 
proof  that  he  knows  how  to  pick  them. 

But,  when  the  sponsors  insisted  he 
carry  on  with  the  Wednesday-night  show, 
they  weren't  buying  showmanship  alone. 
They  were  buying  something  that  can't  be 
merchandised  —  warmth,  personality, 
whimsey  and  heart.  And  more  eloquent 
than  Arthur's  sponsors  are  his  listeners. 
They  watch  and  listen  to  him  from  birth 
to  death. 

A  little  girl  got  her  first  polio  injection 
with  a  live  TV  camera  staring  at  her. 
Told  to  smile  for  her  mother,  the  lass 
said,  "She  won't  see.  She'll  be  watching 
Arthur  Godfrey  and  I  wish  I  were,  too." 
A  nine-year-old  boy  in  Greenfield,  Ohio, 
who  was  to  die  weeks  later,  watched 
Arthur  while  getting  his  Hood  transfusion 
and  wrote,  "I  almost  shook  the  needle  out 
laughing  at  one  of  your  jokes."  A  woman 
from  South  River,  New  Jersey,  wrote 
CBS,  "My  mother  passed  away  two 
months  ago.  She  always  watched  Arthur 
Godfrey  and  laughed  all  the  time  he  was 
on.  Believe  me,  as  long  as  I  see  or  hear 
or  read  about  Arthur,  I  will  never  forget 
how  much  happiness  he  brought  her. 
There  must  be  a  good  many  people  like 
Mother  to  whom  he  brings  happiness  that 
money  can't  buy." 

Much  of  the  Godfrey  charm  is  said  to 
be  inherited  from  his  mother,  who,  at 
seventy-four,  is  a  wonderful  woman  with 
a  grand  sense  of  fun.  She  is  well-educated, 
an  excellent  pianist  and  soprano,  who 
once  had  ambitions  for  the  concert  stage. 
She  married  at  twenty  and  her  life  was 
devoted  to  her  family,  though  she  never 
lost  her  love  of  music  and  poetry.  She 
has  composed  many  songs  and  one  of  her 
marches  is  featured  by  Andre  Koste- 
lanetz.  She  is  always  on  the  go,  goes 
abroad  once  a  year,  and  generally  travels 
almost  as  much  as  her  eldest  son. 

To  Arthur  there  is  nothing  mysterious 
about  the  Godfrey  charm.  He  goes  to  the 
heart  of  the  matter.  He  is  no  phoney.  It 
is  as  he  said  when  he  addressed  a  Na- 
tional Banquet  of  the  Junior  Achieve- 
ment League.  "The  thing  to  remember  is 
that,  all  along  the  way,  you  will  meet 
friends  who  will  help  you.  And  the  secret 
of  making  friends  is  to  love  people." 


Welcome  Little  Strangers 


(Continued  from  page  49) 
there   is   no    note    of   nervous    anxiety    in 
their  handling  of  Cynthia.   But  one  feels 
immediately   a  deep   and  thoughtful   con- 
cern for  the  future  of  their  little  family. 

Part  of  that  concern  is  for  finding  ways 
to  welcome  the  tiny  newcomer  warmly 
and  smoothly  into  the  household  without 
upsetting  small  Cynthia  or  her  schedule. 
A  carefully  coordinated  routine,  for  all 
members  of  the  family,  is  a  major  aspect  of 
Mary's  formula  for  a  serene,  well-ordered 
household.  Here,  her  professional  experi- 
ence helps  immeasurably.  Cues,  quick 
changes  and  split-second  timing  are  sec- 
ond nature  to  this  bright  young  star  who 
was  a  radio  singer  in  her  teens  ...  a  Hol- 
lywood personage  at  twenty  .  .  .  and  who 
has  been  delighting  TV  audiences  for  the 
past  five  years  in  Search  For  Tomorrow. 
'Things  just  have  to  be  synchronized  in 
our  house,"  says  Mary,  "or  we'd  never  get 
off  to  work!" 

Early  rising  presents  no  problems  for 
Richard  and  Mary.  Mary — whose  Holly- 
wood training,  she  says,  "makes  a  baby's 
six-o'clock  bottle  seem  like  a  mid-morning 
snack" — is  planning  to  give  the  wee  new- 
comer his  (or  her)  early  feeding  and  have 
the  baby  tucked  back  in  the  bassinet  be- 
fore Cynthia  wakes  up  at  seven  ...  so 
she  needn't  feel  snubbed  or  slighted.  At 
seven-ten,  Richard — who  likes  to  define  an 
alarm  clock  as  "an  almost  obsolete  instru- 
ment found  useful  in  households  where 
there  are  no  children" — gets  started  on  his 
shave  and  shower.  Meanwhile,  Mary 
dresses  herself  and  Cynthia  and  applies 
her  make-up  while  the  little  girl  plays 
blithely  about  the  dressing  table. 

"The  only  trouble  with  this,"  sighs  Mary 


LET'S  ALL 

BE  SURE 

TO  REGISTER  AND  VOTE 


in  mock  despair,  "is  that  Cynthia  has  'dis- 
covered' dresser  drawers  and  her  favorite 
trick  is  to  drape  my  most  fragile  nylons 
around  her  neck  as  a  sort  of  stole!" 

The  camera  now  turns  to  the  Krolik 
kitchen,  where  Eloise — cook,  nursemaid 
and  family  friend — is  starting  breakfast. 
Cynthia  has  her  pablum  and  orange  juice 
here,  while  Mommy  and  Daddy  have  cof- 
fee and  newspapers  in  the  adjoining  room 
— which  they  vacate  at  7:45.  This  is  Cyn- 
thia's cue  to  enter  the  wide,  sunny  room 
and  begin  her  morning  routine  of  scatter- 
ing about  toys  and  digging  up  the  potted 
plants.  The  dining  room  becomes  her 
playroom,  where  she  potters  happily  till 
Eloise  is  ready  to  take  her  to  the  park. 

When  the  new  baby  arrives,  the  dining 
room  will  be  his — or  hers — "because  it's 
within  earshot  of  us  at  night."  In  the  day- 
time, the  old-fashioned  wicker  bassinet 
(inherited  from  an  uncle  and  still  used  by 
Cynthia  when  she  visits  Grandmother 
Krolik)  will  be  wheeled  into  Cynthia's 
room.  Cynthia  is  already  getting  into  the 
habit  of  taking  her  afternoon  nap  in  Mary's 
room  on  the  big,  wide  bed  which  she  adores 
(possibly  because  of  the  proximity  of  those 
dresser  drawers?)  ...  so  she  won't  have 
the  feeling  that  she's  been  evicted  from 
"her"  room,  or  that  a  little  interloper  has 
invaded  her  privacy!  The  two  children  will 
share  the  same  nursery  room  but  only  in 
stragetically  planned  shifts. 

This  intricate  plotting  and  scene-shifting 
might  seem  a  bit  involved  to  the  average 
young   parent.    But,    to    Mary,    they're    as 


easy  as  breathing  and  the  results  run  off 
as  smoothly  as  a  well-rehearsed  scene 
from  Search  For  Tomorrow.  In  fact,  Joanne 
Tate's  unfailingly  gentle,  sympathetic 
manner  toward  her  on-camera  daughter 
Patti — played  by  Lynn  Loring — is  very 
clearly  reflected  in  Mary's  easy  approach 
to  little  Cynthia.  "Pussy,"  says  Mary, 
using  her  own  pet  name  for  twelve-year- 
old  Lynn,  "has  helped  me  a  lot  in  under- 
standing children  and  in  being  relaxed 
with  them.  On  top  of  that,  she's  the  world's 
best    baby    sitter!" 

For  her  part,  Lynn  Loring  finds  Cyn- 
thia "absolutely  adorable"  and  is  willing 
to  baby-sit  at  the  drop  of  a  small  bonnet. 
Perhaps  one  reason  for  Lynn's  proprietary 
air  toward  the  Kroliks'  first-born  is  that 
she  was  on  hand  to  make  things  smoother 
for  Mary  right  up  to  the  day  when  Cyn- 
thia was  born. 

"At  that  point  in  Search  For  Tomor- 
row," Mary  explains,  "I  had  not  yet  mar- 
ried Arthur  Tate,  and  my  condition  just 
couldn't  be  written  into  the  script.  Usually, 
the  cameraman  would  simply  shoot  me 
from  the  shoulders  up.  But  one  day,  about 
a  month  before  Cynthia's  arrival,  they  de- 
cided to  do  a  full-length  view  of  me  in 
my  wedding  dress,  being  married  to 
Arthur!  This  might  have  been  a  bit  awk- 
ward, except  that  Lynn — like  the  wonder- 
ful little  trouper  she  is — kept  maneuvering 
to  stand  between  me  and  the  camera. 
(She  came  about  up  to  my  chest,  so  every- 
thing looked  completely  normal,  and  I 
was  a  perfectly  presentable  bride!") 

Now,  a  year  later,  Lynn  is  again  on  hand 
to  offer  Mary  aid  and  affection  as  she  waits 
for  her  second  baby.  And  this  time  the 
baby  is  very  much  a  part  of  the  story 
.  .  .  the  first  time,  says  Mary,  that  such  a 
device  has  been  tried  on  live  TV. 

Like  Mary,  herself,  Joanne  Tate  is  the 
kind  of  person  who  adopts  a  business-as- 
usual  attitude  toward  her  pregnancy.  She 
goes  cheerfully  on  about  her  work  as  hos- 
tess of  the  Motor  Haven,  giving  her  full 
measure  of  help  to  her  husband,  sym- 
pathy to  her  friends,  and  comfort  to  her 
daughter  Patti — who  sometimes  gets  a 
wee  bit  muffed  about  the  expected  advent 
of  the  little  stranger. 

Arthur,  however,  has  not  been  so  calm- 
ly matter-of-fact  about  this  matter. 
Trouble  has  been  brewing  at  Motor  Haven. 
Legal  complications  have  set  in,  and  even 
the  police  are  interested.  So  .  .  .  "I  don't 
like  it,"  Arthur  exploded.  "This  is  no  time 
for  such  things  to  happen!" 

"Darling,  try  to  stop  worrying  about  it," 
Joanne   soothed. 

"Stop  worrying?  Joanne  .  .  .  you're  go- 
ing to   have   a   baby!" 

"1  know  that!"  laughs  Joanne — to  whom 
this  announcement  was  scarcely  news. 
What  she  didn't  know,  however,  was  that 
she  would  soon  be  facing  troubles  which 
even  her  bravery  cannot  dispel.  The  death 
of  her  beloved  mother  was  a  shock  which 
sent  her  to  bed,  where  she  must  remain — 
under  doctor's  orders — till  she  regains  her 
strength.  Fortunately,  there  are  friends — 
such  as  her  assistant,  Mrs.  Greene,  and  a 
sister,  who  arrives  providentially  from  the 
West — to  take  over  her  duties  temporarily. 

This  twist  in  the  plot  of  Search  For  To- 
morrow makes  it  a  little  easier  for  the 
real-life  Mary  Stuart  to  stay  on  the  job 
all  through  her  pregnancy.  "I  can  take  it," 
she  chuckles.  "But  I'm  going  to  take  it 
lying  down! 

"Seriously,"  she  adds,  "this  job  of  mine 
is  just  about  tailor-made  for  an  expectant 
mother.  It  keeps  my  mind  off  myself.  And 
yet,  when  I  get  through  work  at  lunch- 
time,  I'm  not  too  tense  and  tired  to  have 
fun  with  Cynthie." 


"I  learned  this 

is  no  secret  — 

but  a  fact  of  life!" 


says  Mrs.  Catherine  Russo  who 
now  uses  ZONITE  to  douche! 

SAFE!  Married  women,  brides,  and  brides- 
to-be  so  often  wonder  about  douching  for 
feminine  hygiene.  Eventually,  they  dis- 
cover— as  did  Mrs.  Russo,  that  it's  an  im- 
portant fact  of  life  to  follow  the  proper 
method  of  douching  with  a  fountain  syr- 
inge, using  an  effective  yet  safe  solution — 
like  zonite. 

EFFECTIVE!  No  other  type  liquid  antiseptic- 
germicide  for  the  douche  of  all  those  tested 
is  50  powerfully  effective  yet  so  safe  to  body 
tissues  as  zonite. 

HEALTHFUL!  zonite  completely  deodorizes, 
promptly  washes  away  germs  and  odor- 
causing  waste  substances.  A  nurse  once 
advised  Mrs.  Russo  that  if  any  abnormal 
condition  exists,  she  should  see  her  doctor. 
She  said  he  would  probably  recommend 
that  she  continue  to  use  zonite. 

DAINTY!  You,  too,  can  be  one  of  the  mod- 
ern women  who  welcome  the  "peace  of 
mind"  and  daintiness  that  zonite  gives 
them  after  monthly  periods  and  other 
times.  You  can  use  zonite  as  directed,  as 
often  as  needed,  without  the  slightest  risk 
of  injury.  Costs  only  pennies  per  douche. 

use 

/<?  Guaranteed  by  ^ 
L  Good  Housekeeping 


ZONITE 

so  safe  yet 
so  effective! 


Clear  up  your 

pimples  FAST.,. 

leave  no  S€ars 

Don't  handle,  tug  or  pick  those 
"hickiesl"  Pimples,  blackheads 
easily  infect  .  .  .  leave  lifetime 
scars.  Clear  up  those  pimples  and 
blackheads— oh  so  gently,  safely 
and  cover  them  while  you're 
clearing  them)  with  Pompeian 
Milk  Cream — pink  magic  proved 
in  the  laboratory  to  possess  a 
greater  "zone  of  inhibition"  than 
all  the  leading  medications  tested  I 
If  s  the  milk — chemists  say — that 
makes  PC  11 — the  hexachloro- 
phene — so  far  more  effective  in 
starving  skin  bacteria  that  cloud 
your  complexion. 

TRY  IT. . PROVE  IT. .  TRIAL  TUBf  25c 
Send  25c  for  a  trial  tube.  Watch 
your  skin  grow  healthier  again. 
Pompeian  Corp.,  Balto.  24.  Md.. 
Dept.  TV-10.  Or  set  Pomo  an 
Milk    Cream    trom 


|    your  druggist  tonight 

POMPEIAN 


MILK  CREAM 


T 
V 
R 

81 


New  Patterns 
for  Yon 


4654 — Sew-easy  jumper  and  compan- 
ion blouse — designed  especially  for 
the  shorter,  fuller  figure.  Half  Sizes 
14i/2-241/2-  Printed  Pattern  Size  16y2 
jumper  takes  3  yards  39-inch  fabric; 
blouse  takes  1%  yards.  State  size.  354 

9189 — Base  your  winter  wardrobe  on 
this  slim  classic  frock.  Your  favorite 
step-in  style;  new  squared  armholes, 
pockets  for  detail.  Misses'  Sizes  12-20; 
40.  Size  16  takes  4%  yards  39-inch 
fabric.  State  size.  35<t 

9165 — Make  this  versatile  style  as  a 
jumper  or  dress — add  the  overblouse 
to  make  it  a  smart  ensemble!  Child's 
Sizes  2,  4,  6,  8,  10.  Size  6  jumper  and 
overblouse,  2%  yards  35-inch  checked 
fabric;   %  yard  plain.   State  size.    35^ 


4654 

SIZES 
14V2-24V2 


Send  thirty-five  cents   (in  coins)   for  each  pattern  to:  TV  Radio  Mirror,  Pattern  Depart- 
I    ment,  P.O.  Box  137,  Old  Chelsea  Station,  New  York  11,  New  York.    Add  five  cents  for 

*    each    pattern    for    first-class    mailing.     Be    sure    to    specify    pattern    number    and    size. 

R 

82 


Mary  is  what  might  be  described  as  a 
"permissive"  mother.  Cynthia  is  allowed 
to  toddle  freely  about  the  Kroliks'  lovely, 
uncluttered  living  room  .  .  .  and  play  peek- 
aboo through  the  glass  top  of  the  coffee 
table  .  .  .  devour  (sometimes  literally)  the 
evening  papers  .  .  .  and  if  a  few  bits  of 
zwieback  fall  on  the  beautiful  beige  broad- 
loom,  Mary  just  scoops  them  up  and  ob- 
serves with  an  unconcerned  smile,  "Oh, 
never  mind,  kitten — it's  a  cookie-colored 
rug!" 

"If  I  were  home  with  Cynthie  all  the 
time,"  Mary  explains,  "I  just  might  get 
tense  and  irritable  and  anxious  about  dis- 
cipline. But,  since  I'm  away  from  her  al- 
most five  hours  a  day — from  8  to  1 — I  feel 
perfectly  free  to  pet  and  pamper  her  the 
rest  of  the  time."  The  result  is  an  enchant- 
ingly  unspoiled  and  undemanding  little  elf 
who  has  convinced  her  father,  for  one, 
that  girls  are  the  only  children  to  have. 
"He  figures  this  first  baby  has  turned  out 
so  satisfactorily,"  says  Mary,  "that  we 
might  just  as  well  go  on  having  girls  till 
we  have  a  quartet." 

There  is  nothing  flippant,  however,  about 
Richard's  concern  for  little  Cynthia.  Just 
as  Arthur  Tate  is  trying  to  reassure  his 
stepdaughter  Patti  about  Joanne's  ex- 
pected baby  in  Search  For  Tomorrow,  so 
Mary's  real-life  husband  feels  that  help- 
ing the  first  child  learn  to  love  the  second 
is,  at  least  in  part,  a  father's  job.  One  of 
the  little  things  he  will  do  is  to  take 
Mary's  place  as  administrator,  audience 
and  "splashee"  at  Cynthia's  pre-supper 
bath.  Tub-time  has  already  been  changed 
from  five  to  six  o'clock  to  make  this  pos- 
sible^— schedules,  again! — and  so,  when 
Mary  and  the  new  baby  are  sojourning 
up  at  Doctors'  Hospital,  Daddy  will  be 
able  to  return  from  his  visits  with  them 
in  time  to  join  Cynthia  in  water  sports. 

There's  been  a  good  bit  of  debate,  both 
on  the  TV  screen  and  in  the  Krolik  living 
room,  about  just  what  this  much- antici- 
pated baby  is  going  to  be.  Lynn  Loring 
favors  the  thought  of  twin  girls  .  .  .  Rich- 
ard, according  to  Mary,  "won't  even  con- 
sider anything  but  a  girl"  .  .  .  Mother 
Stuart  knows  it  will  be  a  boy  (she  was 
right  the  last  time)  .  .  .  and  Mary  herself 
says  she  really  doesn't  care  "as  long  as  it's 
a  baby!" 

One  thing  is  sure:  Whichever  the  baby 
turns  out  to  be,  the  mother  will  still  be 
the  same  pretty,  pleasant  and  plucky  per- 
son so  many  viewers  admire  on  the  TV 
screen.  Mary,  like  the  character  she  plays, 
is  a  "working  mother"  in  the  best  sense. 
She  works  well  at  her  job  and  she  works 
even  harder  at  being  a  good  mother.  She 
isn't  making  a  special  fuss  about  her  "con- 
dition" and  she  expects  to  work  right  up 
to  the  first  contraction.  She  doesn't  even 
believe  in  elaborate  medication  during 
childbirth — "maybe  an  aspirin  or  two." 
When  Cynthia  arrived,  she  recalls,  "I  felt 
fresh  as  a  daisy  after  the  night's  work. 
But  Richard  .  .  .  Richard  was  a  wreck! 

"I  remember  how  wretched  he  looked 
when  he  came  into  my  hospital  room.  All 
he  could  say  was,  'Thank  goodness,  it's  a 
girl — she'll  never  have  to  endure~what 
I've  just  been  through!'" 

But,  this  time,  both  parents  are  pre- 
pared for  the  momentous  event — and  pre- 
pared to  enjoy  it.  In  a  recent  episode  on 
Search  For  Tomorrow,  Marge  Bergman 
said  to  Joanne:  "You  know,  Joanne,  for 
the  first  time  in  my  life,  I  find  that  I 
really  envy  you.  I  wish  I  were  expecting 
a  baby,  too  .  .  .  and  that  we  could  have 
them  at  the  same  time  .  .  .  wheel  them  out 
in  their  carriages  together  .  .  .  but  what 
am  I  talking  about?" 

And  Joanne  answered,  "About  the  most 
wonderful  thing  in  the  world!" 

A  sentiment  which  Mary  Stuart  echoes 
with  all  her  heart. 


A  Homeful  of  Humor 


(Continued  from  page  59) 
sounded  as  though  the  heat  were  getting 
him,  too.  "I've  been  on  so  many  summer 
screens,"  he  sighed,  "that  I'm  beginning  to 
feel  a  kinship  for  the  houseflies." 

CBS  heard  the  sigh  and  gave  him  his 
own  program,  assigning  him  the  early 
morning  hours  opposite  Dave  Garroway's 
Today.  After  a  year  of  trying  to  be  funny 
at  that  hour  in  the  morning,  Jack  finally 
came  into  his  own  on  television.  The  Jack 
Paar  Show  was  moved  to  an  afternoon 
spot.  Last  April,  however,  GBS-TV  an- 
nounced that — although  his  contract  ex- 
tended until  August  sixteenth — Jack  would 
make  his  last  telecast  for  the  network  on 
May  twenty-fifth.  Was  it  possible?  Was 
Jack  being  a   "finished"  actor  again? 

His  fans  wrote  letters  of  protest.  Critics, 
who  have  long  recognized  him  as  one  of 
television's  most  intelligent  comedians, 
wrote  columns  of  indignation.  In  fact, 
everyone  seemed  excited  but  Jack  him- 
self. "It  was  inevitable,"  he  announced  to 
the  press.  "The  show  has  won  a  whole 
series  of  awards  since  Christmas,  but  it 
has  never  been  able  to  make  enough  sta- 
tions to  make  it  financially  worth  while." 

Having  made  four  comebacks  in  thirty- 
seven  years,  Jack  was  hardly  the  man  to 
be  thrown  by  the  prospect  of  a  fifth.  "I 
have  come  back  so  much,"  he  quipped, 
"I  am  known  as  the  Radish  of  the  Co- 
medians." 

A  short  time  later,  ABC  announced  that 
starting  July  second,  The  Jack  Paar  Show 
could  be  heard  every  weekday  morning 
over  its  radio  network.  There  were  also 
rumors  of  possible  television  shows.  It  is 
no  secret  in  the  trade  that  NBC  has  long 
been  interested  in  bringing  Jack  to  its 
network.  And,  now  that  Steve  Allen  has  a 
big  Sunday-night  show,  Jack  is  said  to 
have  the  inside  track  as  Steve's  perma- 
nent substitute  on  Mondays  and  Tuesdays 
— the  two  nights  Allen  will  be  absent  from 
his  late  evening  television  show. 

All  in  all,  Jack  was  out  of  work  for 
thirty-seven  days.  He  was  free  the  whole 
month  of  June — his  first  real  vacation  in 
years.  He  needed  that  time  to  get  ready 
for  the  big  move.  And  he  didn't  mean  the 
move  from  CBS  to  ABC.  He  meant  the 
move  from  an  eight-room  terrace  apart- 
ment to  a  home  of  his  own — a  home  with 
grounds  around  it,  and  a  fence  around  the 
grounds.  A  real  home  where  he  and 
Miriam  and  seven-year-old  Randy  could 
be  alone  and  live  their  own  kind  of  lives. ... 

It  was  a  wartime  marriage.  Miriam  Wag- 
ner was  a  relative  of  the  Hersheys',  known 
for  the  chocolate  company  and  the  town 
in  Pennsylvania  that  bears  their  name. 
Jack  was  a  private  in  the  Army,  stationed 
at  nearby  Indiantown  Gap.  One  night  in 
1942,  when  the  Hersheys  were  entertain- 
ing some  officers  at  their  home,  Jack  was 
brought  along  as  a  performer.  Miriam  was 
one  of  the  guests.  Boy  met  girl.  And  they 
were  married  the  same  year,  just  before 
Jack's  outfit  went  overseas  to  Guadalcanal. 

But  Jack  is  not  the  usual  boy.  By  na- 
ture, he's  a  "hermit"  .  .  .  and,  by  definition, 
a  hermit  is  one  who  lives  as  much  alone 
as  possible.  "I'm  unhappy  'across  a  crowded 
room,' "  he  confesses.  He  only  goes  to  the 
city  when  he  has  to — and,  as  soon  as  he 
finishes  work,  he  heads  straight  home  .  .  . 
away  from  a  world  of  executives  and 
sponsors  to  his  own  private  oasis  of  peace. 
"I  know  no  one  at  the  studio,"  he  insists. 
"I  don't  even  watch  other  television 
shows." 

Curiously    enough,   he   prefers   his    own 
programs  to  be  on  a  daily  basis.  "I  hate 
the  grind,"  he  admits,  "but  I  have  so  much 
energy  I  have  to  get  rid  of  it  in  my  shows. . 
On   Saturdays,   I  work   as   hard   as   I   can 


around  the  house,  using  up  all  the  energy 
I  can.  Even  so,  by  Sunday,  I'm  nervous, 
melancholy — anxious  to  get  back  to  work." 

And  all  the  while  he's  at  home — much  as 
he  tries  to  shut  out  his  work — his  mind 
keeps  turning  it  over  all  the  time.  He  is 
constantly  on  the  lookout  for  new  material. 

"Luckily,"  Jack  explains,  "Miriam  is  a 
hermit,  too.  We  enjoy  doing  everything 
together."  That's  the  secret  of  their  hap- 
piness. It's  wonderful  to  be  alone,  but  it's 
still  more  wonderful  to  be  alone  together. 
"There's  hope  for  everyone,"  he  has  learned 
through  his  own  experience,  "if  he  knows 
himself  and  makes  his  own  happiness 
around  those  he  loves." 

That's  what  Jack  is  trying  to  do.  And 
that's  why  their  new  home  is  so  important 
to  him.  "I've  been  in  show  business  since 
I  was  sixteen,"  he  recalls.  "This  is  my  first 
permanent  home."  It's  just  as  important  to 
Miriam,  who  had  to  wait  out  a  war  before 
she  could  set  up  housekeeping  with  her 
husband.  Their  first  home  together  was  a 
grand  one,  for  those  were  the  days  when 
Jack  had  a  big  Hollywood  contract  and 
the  world  seemed  to  be  theirs.  But  then 
came  the  year-and-a-half  that  Jack  was 
out  of  work.  They  had  to  sell  their  home. 
Miriam  and  Randy  went  to  live  with  her 
family,  while  Jack  went  to  New  York. 

His  luck  was  surprisingly  good,  and  soon 
the  Paars  were  all  together  again,  with  a 
terraced  apartment  in  Westchester.  But, 
all  the  time,  there  was  that  dream  of  a 
home  of  their  own.  A  home  the  way  they 
wanted  it,  with  a  special  studio  for  Jack's 
painting,  and  room  for  his  power  tools, 
and  a  swimming  pool  for  Randy. 

Together,  they  found  the  perfect  spot — 
in  Bronxville,  a  particularly  beautiful  part 
of  Westchester.  It's  on  a  tree-shaded  street 
and,  while  Jack  wishes  it  were  "more  in 
the  woods,"  he  also  appreciates  the  ad- 
vantage of  being  within  such  easy  com- 
muting distance  of  Manhattan. 

Unlike  some  New  Yorkers,  the  Paars 
didn't  scour  the  countryside  for  a  barn 
they  could  remodel.  "We're  not  fond  of 
things,"  Jack  says,  "just  because  they're  old. 
We  didn't  want  a  second-hand,  broken- 
down  house  with  falling  stairs  and  air- 
conditioning  through  the  roof.  We  wanted 
to  start  from  scratch,  building  our  own 
kind  of  home.  Miriam  worked  it  out  with 
the  architect,  incorporating  all  our  ideas." 

June  was  Jack's  month  off,  but  he  never 
worked  so  hard  in  his  life — helping  to  get 
the  house  ready  for  occupancy  by  July. 
He  did  all  the  wiring  himself,  being  some- 
thing of  an  electrical  expert,  but  thought 
he  was  too  "weak  on  plumbing"  to  attempt 
that.  He  put  up  the  wire  fence  around  their 
property  and  tried  out  the  tractor  he  was 
given  last  May  for  a  birthday  present.  En- 
couraged by  the  results,  he  and  Miriam 
plan  to  do  all  the  landscaping  themselves. 
In  fact,  Jack  has  already  planted  fifty  trees. 

"I  saw  them  advertised  in  the  news- 
paper," he  recalls.  "I  not  only  ordered 
them,  I  bought  shovels  and  manure  and 
all  the  equipment  necessary  to  give  them 
a  proper  start  in  life.  When  they  finally 
arrived,  however,  they  didn't  look  like  the 
ads  at  all.  They  looked  like  corsages." 

But  then,  this  suggested  the  idea  of  a 
comedy  bit,  and  Jack  was  off  again.  The 
wheels  were  grinding.  He  worked  up  a 
whole  sketch  about  ordering  trees  by  mail. 
When  he  got  through  with  it,  it  was  not 
only  funny,  it  was  true.  It  was  something 
that  had  actually  happened  to  him.  But 
more  important,  it  was  something  that 
could  have  happened  to   anybody.   .   .   . 

A  television  executive,  trying  to  explain 
the  phenomenon  known  as  Jack  Paar,  once 
said:  "He  doesn't  look  like  a  comedian. 
In   fact,    he    looks    like    the    all-American 


I  Trapped  My  Man! 

My  sparkling  smile  won  my  wonderful  man. 
I  was  ashamed  to  smile  until  a  dentist  told 
me  how  I  could  have  a  brilliant,  captivating 
smile  with  the  regular  use  of  Iodent  No.  2. 

I  was  amazed  when  ugly  Smoke  Smudge 
and  Surface  Stains  disappeared  after  the 
first  few  brushings.  Take  a  tip  from  a  gal 
who  knows  .  .  .  get  a  tube  of  Iodent  No.  2 
today  and  you  too  can 
enjoy  the  glamour  of  a 
Hollywood  smile. 


MADE 
BY  A 

DENTIST 


MP. 

■rri. 


pfn 


Female  Help  Wanted 


$23  WEEKLY  for  wearing  lovely 
dresses  supplied  to  you  by  us. 
Just  show  Fashion  Frocks  to 
friends.  No  investment,  canvas- 
sing or  experience  necessary. 
Fashion  Frocks,  Dept.  W-4053 
Cincinnati,  Ohio. 
■■"'"-*■--  -■    ^      -  ■  •—■ 


5-jf 


Chi-Ches-Ters 

turn 

"problem"  days 
into 
party  days. 


No  need  to  miss  good 
times  because  of 
functional  menstrual 
distress— when  you 
can  get  such  wonder- 
ful quick  and  lasting  ~ 
relief  from  pain, 
cramps,  nervous  ten- 
sion and  headache 

with  Chi-Ches-Ters.  There's  nothing  like  them— in 
doctors'  tests  9  out  of  10  women  got  wonderful  re- 
lief beyond  expectations.  Try  this  fast-acting  pre- 
scription-like formula.  Your  money  back  if  not 
satisfied.  Purse  Pak  50#.  Economy  Sizes  $1.15  and 
$2.25.  At  your  drug  store,  or  we  will  fill  direct  orders. 

FREE — Illustrated  booklet  of  intimate  facts 
every  woman  should  know.  Mailed  in  plain 
wrapper.  Write  today!  Chichester  Chemical 
Company,  Dept.  10-S,      Philadelphia  46,  Pa. 


T 
¥ 
R 

83 


Gallouses.Burning. 

Pain  at  Ball  of  Foot? 

Dr.  Scholl's  NEW    ioops^ 
FAST  RELIEF!     0toEeR    * 

You  actually  WALK  ON  CUSHIONS! 


'  Stops  High  Heel  Sore. 
/*^  ness  at  Ball  of  Foot 

Made  of  soft  LATEX  FOAM.  No  adhesive. 

It's  entirely  NEW!  Never  before  anything  like  it 
for  relieving  painful  callouses,  tenderness,  burning, 
soreness  at  ball  of  foot!  The  cushion  absorbs 
shock  of  each  step.  Dr.  Scholl's  BALL-O-FOOT 
Cushion  saves  your  energy;  eases  pressure  on  the 
nerves,  muscles  and  blood  vessels  in  this  area  of  the 
foot.  Flesh  color,  washable,  worn  invisibly.  $1  pair 
at  Drug,  Shoe,  Dept.,  5-104  Stores,  Dr.  Scholl's 
Foot  Comfort*  Shops.  If  not  obtainable  locally,  send 
$1  direct  to  Dr.  Scholl's,  Inc.,   Chicago   10,  111. 


D-rScholls 
BALL-O-FOOT  Cushion 


SELL  AMAZING  VALUE 

IS  CARDS 

3t  each 


EXCLUSIVE  CHRISTMAS  CARDS 

with  sender's  name 
imprinted-only 


FREE  SAMPLES 

Personal  Christmas 
Cards,  Stationery 


IMake  $50,  $75,  $100  extra  money! 
Show  friends  new  style  Christmas,  All 
Occasion  greeting  card  assortments, 
gift  wrappings,  novelties.  Profits  to  $1 
per  box  plus  cash  bonus.  Write  today 
for  Free  Trial  outfit  of  Feature  boxes 
on  approval,   FREE  48-page   Catalog:. 

New  England  Art  Publishers 
North  Abington  1021.  Mass. 


TROPISAN 

New  Hope  for  CRUSTS,  SCALES 
No  Messy  Oils-Simple,  Easy,  SAFE  TABLET! 

Say  goodbye  to  smelly,  greasy  oils  and  salves. 
TROPISAN,  newly  discovered  medical  tablet,  gives 
welcome  relief  from  itchy  scales,  patches  and 
other  external  symptoms  of  Psoriasis.  TROPISAN 
strikes  at  the  internal  source— not  just  the  surface 
symptoms.  Absolutely  safe,  fast,  easy  to  take.  No 
mess,  no  fuss,  no  unsightly  bandages  to  mar  work 
or  play.  TROPISAN — the  proven  "effective  treat- 
ment." Every  reported  case  stated  that  Tropisan 
relieved  symptoms  to  some  degree  with  continuous 
use.  Send  $1.00  today  for  Trial  Offer.  Address, 
TROPISAN  DRUG  CO.,  Dept.  TSW9 
31  West  47th  St.,  New  York  36,  N.Y. 


LARGE  BUST 

STYLE  CATALOG 

FREE! 

Sizes 
34  to  60 


i/Vide  variety  of  bras 
in  long  lines,  ban- 
deaus,  built  up  shoul- 
ders, strapless,  etc., 
all-in  -  ones,  bras'- 
lettes,  bathing  suits, 
slips,  nitegowns, 
corsets,  girdles,  spe- 
cial inner  controls 
to  cup  large  bust 
into  smaller,  youth- 
ful shape.  Savings 
up  to  500/0!  Money  back  guarantee. 
Mailed  in  plain  wrapper  FREE!  Style 
XOl  (pictured)  only  $2.98.  Order 
C.O.D.   plus  postage  or  postpaid. 


boy.  But,  after  you  listen  to  him  awhile, 
suddenly  it  comes  over  you.  He  looks  like 
he  has  two  heads." 

It's  the  best  description  yet  of  Jack's 
humor.  He  starts  out  so  simply,  so  ration- 
ally .  .  .  but,  before  he's  through,  he  has 
created  complete  chaos — which  is  all  the 
funnier  because  he  comments  on  it  with 
such  mild  understatement.  His  humor  is 
mad  at  times,  but  it's  always  based  on 
truth. 

"I  can't  try  to  be  funny,"  he  insists.  "I'm 
a  humorist,  not  a  comedian.  A  humorist 
thinks  funny.  A  comedian  does  and  says 
funny  things."  He  sees  himself  as  a  disciple 
of  disenchantment — an  introvert  among 
extroverts,  quietly  needling  the  phonies, 
sticking  pins  in  the  stuffed  shirts.  As  a 
satirist,  he  is  the  darling  of  the  intellectu- 
als. College  professors  write  him  fan  letters, 
university  students  voted  him  their  fa- 
vorite comedian,  and  columnists  voted  him 
all  kinds  of  awards.  But  what  about  the 
public  at  large?  Radio  gave  birth  to  a 
number  of  great  humorists  .  .  .  but,  thus 
far,  television  has  been  taken  over  large- 
ly by  the  comedians. 

Inevitably,  one  thinks  of  Fred  Allen, 
whom  Jack  happens  to  admire  as  "a  man 
of  integrity  who  never  said  anything  he 
didn't  believe  in."  He,  too,  was  an  intel- 
lectual humorist,  a  disciple  of  disenchant- 
ment. And  even  the  great  Allen  gave  up 
trying  to  transplant  his  brand  of  comedy 
from   radio  to  television. 

But  Jack  has  one  advantage  that  Fred 
never  had.  Jack  has  a  seven-year-old 
daughter  named  Randy. 

"A  humorist  today,"  Jack  explains,  "has 
a  very  serious  problem:  A  point  of  view. 
He  must  stand  for  something.  In  the  Army, 
I  had  a  readymade  and  captive  audience 
who  thought  as  one.  They  agreed  with  my 
point  of  view  completely.  The  subject  was 
anti-officer,  and  anything  against  the  brass 
was  considered  great  humor.  I  didn't  real- 
ize at  the  time  that  this  same  point  of 
view  would  be  useless  in  civilian  life.  It 
was  a  shock  for  me  to  learn  that  the  dif- 
ference between  officers  and  enlisted  men 
had  no  meaning  back  in  the  United  States. 
I  was  twenty-five  years  old  and  I  was  fin- 
ished— a  has-been. 

"What  I  needed  was  a  point  of  view. 
Sam  Levenson  had  a  point  of  view:  His 
poor,  humble  childhood  in  New  York  City. 
But  what  about  me?  What  was  my  new 
point  of  view  to  be? 

"About  this  time,"  he  continues,  "Mir- 
iam and  I  had  a  baby.  Everyone  has  a 
baby.  I  thought.  Now  I  have  a  baby,  too. 
And  then  it  occurred  to  me:  I  also  have  a 
point  oj  view.  I  spend  more  than  I  make — 
that's   a   point   of   view.   I   never   seem   to 


$1,000.00  REWARD 


R       TESTED   SALES.    Dept.   CL-9810W 

296   Broadway,   N.  Y.  C. 

84 


...  is  offered  for  information  leading 
to  the  arrest  of  dangerous  "wanted" 
criminals.  Hear  details  about  the 
$  1 ,000.00  reward  on  .  .  . 

TRUE  DETECTIVE  MYSTERIES 

Every    Monday    Evening    on    MUTUAL    Stations 


Summer  fun  turned  to  death!  Read  "The  Chambermaid  Flirted 
Once  Too  Often"  in  October  TRUE  DETECTIVE  magazine, 
now  at  all  newsstands. 


hold  a  job  too  long — that's  a  point  of  view. 
And  so  I  learned  that  just  living  is  humor, 
and  humor  is  living." 

If  Jack  was  quick  to  sign  Randy  to  "a 
contract  written  in  pablum,"  it  was  be- 
cause she  not  only  made  him  realize  that 
he  had  a  point  of  view,  she  started  pro- 
viding  him   with   material. 

"One  Christmas,"  Jack  recalls,  "she  made 
her  stage  debut  as  an  angel  in  the  Sunday- 
school  play.  Randy  had  been  around  show 
people  all  her  five  years,  and  my  wife  and 
I  were  frightened.  Our  Randy  was  an  an- 
gel, but  we  sat  breathlessly  as  she  walked 
to  the  center  of  the  stage  for  fear  she 
would  say:  'A  funny  thing  happened  to 
me  on  the  way  to  Heaven.' " 

When  the  Paars  took  her  to  see  "The 
King  and  I" — the  stage  version,  "a  real, 
live  drama" — they  asked  her  afterwards  if 
she  liked  it.  "No,"  Randy  replied,  "they 
didn't  have  any  cartoon."  Which  reminds 
Jack  of  the  time  he  took  her  to  see  her 
first  3-D  movie.  "I  had  a  hard  time  keep- 
ing the  glasses  on  her  little  nose  as  we 
were  watching  this  very  exciting  Indian 
picture.  They  began  to  throw  knives  at  the 
audience.  Arrows  and  bullets  came  flying 
our  way.  Randy  could  stand  it  no  longer. 
She  ripped  off  her  glasses,  but  'I  told  her 
to  put  them  back  on  and  watch  the  pic- 
ture. 'What!'  she  exclaimed.  'And  get 
killed?' " 

Then  there  was  the  time  that  Jack  prom- 
ised her  a  quarter  if  she  behaved  while  he 
and  Miriam  were  gone  from  the  house. 
When  they  returned,  the  baby-sitter  as- 
sured them  that  Randy  had  been  quite 
bad.  Jack  went  up  to  her  room,  and  his 
daughter  crawled  under  the  sheet.  "Ran- 
dy," he  said,  "were  you  a  good  girl?  I  want 
you  to  tell  me  the  truth — and,  if  you  were, 
I  will  still  give  you  the  quarter."  The 
little  voice  from  under  the  sheets  replied: 
"Pop,  just  leave  me  a  dime  and  forget  the 
whole  thing." 

But  then,  Jack  can  go  on  and  on  about 
his  little  daughter.  He  can  also,  as  far  as 
his  fans  are  concerned,  go  on  and  on  as 
long  as  he  likes  on  radio  and  television. 
For  Randy  has  not  only  taught  him  a 
point  of  view,  she  has  taught  him  the 
common  touch.  Jack  may  "look  like  he  has 
two  heads,"  but  he  sounds  like  the  ail- 
American  boy  who  shares  the  normal  life 
of  most  other  Americans.  His  humor  is 
based  on  the  everyday  things  that  frus- 
trate most  of  us:  Christmas  shopping,  the 
painters,  a  husband's  amusement  over  his 
wife's   efficiency,   a   child's   allowance. 

"Living  is  humor,  and  humor  is  living," 
as  Jack  says  .  .  .  but,  somehow,  it  helps 
when  he's  just  a  dial's  turn  away  to  re- 
mind us. 


Only  Yesterday 


(Continued  from  page  37) 
got  so  friendly — and  I,  so  intrigued — that, 
although  I  had  never  known  anything 
about  birds  except  that  they  fly,  I  have 
never  since  been  without  one  or  more 
starlings  in  the  home! 

"Currently,  we  have  Willie.  I  got  Willie 
out  of  Central  Park.  Found  a  real  hot 
starling  spot  in  the  Park.  A  big,  red  brick 
building — starlings  build  their  nests  in  the 
eaves  of  buildings— near  Seventy- eighth 
Street.  Since  you  have  to  get  starlings  the 
day  they  hop  out  of  the  nest,  I'd  had  my 
eye  on  Willie  for  some  time,  and,  at  the 
appointed  (pre-dawn)  hour,  I  went  out  to 
get  him,"  John  laughs,  "equipped  with  all 
kinds  of  identification,  lest  they  get  me 
for  birdnaping!  Willie  now  lives  in  the 
kitchen  of  our  New  York  apartment, 
whistles  'Yankee  Doodle'  and  I've  taught 
him  to  say  a  number  of  pertinent  things 
such  as  'I'm  a  dirty  bird,  yes,  siree!'  d  la 
George  Gobel.  So  'a  la'  that,  in  the  dark, 
you  can't  tell  one  from  the  other! 

"Willie  was  named,  by  the  way,  for 
Willie  Mays.  My  wife  and  I  are  both  rabid 
baseball  fans,  with  a  team  in  each  League 
(mine  are  the  Giants,  Lyn's  are  the 
Yankees).  And  because  Willie  Mays  came 
up  in  the  big  league  at  about  the  time 
Willie  Graham  came  to  us,"  John  laughs 
again,  "he  was  named  for  Willie  Mays!" 

In  more  basic  ways,  however,  than  teach- 
ing starlings  to  talk — praiseworthy  pur- 
suit though  it  is — there  are  differences  in 
the  lives,  if  not  in  the  essential  characters, 
of  Governor  Walker  and  actor  Graham. 
The  trades  they  ply,  for  one.  The  fact  that 
the  Governor  is  unmarried  as  of  now — al- 
though not,  perhaps,  for  long,  considering 
his  developing  interest  in  Helen  Emerson 
.  .  .  whereas  John  is  married,  has  been 
for  twenty-two  years,  and  is  the  father  of 
two   sons — John,   Jr.,   20,    and   Robert,   15. 

"John,  Jr.,  is  now  in  the  Air  Force,"  says 
John,  Sr.,  "stationed  temporarily  in  the 
hospital — being,  as  I've  had  occasion  to 
fear,  accident-prone.  During  the  run  of 
'The  Moon  Is  Blue' — in  which  I  under- 
studied Donald  Cook  on  Broadway,  and 
later  played  the  lead  up  and  down  the 
East  Coast — I  was  called  one  day  with  the 
information  that  Bob  had  fallen  out  of  a 
tree  and  broken  both  arms.  This  time,  he 
was  accidentally  hit  in  the  mouth  with  a 
telephone,  which  necessitated  a  little  job 
of  stitching." 

By  what  means  Governor  Walker  got 
into  politics  is  not  quite  clear — but  sel- 
dom, if  ever,  do  actors  get  into  the  theater 
the  way  that  he  did,  says  John.  "The  way 
opened  up,  or  began  to,"  he  explains,  "be- 
cause I  was  a  squash  rackets  player — not 
standard  procedure,  you  will  admit,  for 
obtaining  a  foothold  behind  the  footlights! 
How  come?  I  was  visiting  in  Lake  Forest, 
Illinois,  when  Sol  Smith,  president  of  a 
Chicago  bank  heard  that  a  young  man 
house-guesting  in  Lake  Forest  was  a 
squash  rackets  player — and,  being  an  en- 
thusiast of  the  sport  himself,  he  invited  me 
to  play  with  him.  We  became  friendly — 
and  7  became  a  teller  in  Sol's  bank!  After 
banking  hours  I  started,  just  for  kicks, 
studying  dramatics  at  Chicago's  Columbia 
College  of  Dramatic  Arts.  At  the  time  I 
enrolled,  the  Uptown  Players — a  well- 
known  amateur  group  in  Chicago — were 
rehearsing  a  one-act  play  in  which  I  was 
given  a  part.  The  play  won  the  Edith 
Rockefeller  Contest  at  the  Goodman 
Theater,  and  Ben  Piazza  booked  it  for 
vaudeville.  Result:  I  quit  the  bank  on  a 
Friday  and  opened  at  the  Palace  Theater 
in  Chicago  on  a  Monday! 

"Gee,  I  remember  thinking,  I've  always 

'  heard   how   tough  it  is  to   get  into  show 

business — this  is  a  soft  touch,  a  cinch!  .  .  . 


It  got  tough  later,"  says  Mr.  G.,  with  a 
wry  grin.  "Vaudeville  died.  Vaudevillians, 
many  of  them,  came  close  to  the  same 
final  exit. 

"Why  I  stuck  it  out  is  difficult  to  explain, 
even  to  myself.  The  theater  got  into  my 
blood,  no  doubt  of  it,  but  not  by  inheri- 
tance. In  the  long  line  of  Scottish  John 
Grahams — the  first  recorded  John  Graham 
stood  in  a  pass  in  the  Highlands  and  stood 
off  the  whole  British  Army! — there  had 
never  been  an  actor.  My  father  was  in  the 
lumber  business  (and  my  three  sisters  and 
two  brothers  know  the  theater  only  from 
the  audience  side  of  the  footlights),  but 
most  of  my  Dad's  people  were  and  are 
farmers  ...  as  I,  who  used  to  spend  every 
summer  vacation  on  the  farms  of  relatives 
all  over  the  state  of  Iowa,  thought  it  likely 
I  would  be.  Never  occurred  to  me,  cer- 
tainly, that  I,  who  love  fields  and  cattle 
and  crops  and  the  sun  on  my  face,  would 
ever  become  a  city  dweller  with  grease- 
paint on  my  face,  in  the  line  of  duty! 

"Still,  I  always  liked  dramatics  in  school 
and  in  college — Columbia  College  (now 
called  Loras  College)  in  Dubuque — 
where,  by  the  way,  Don  Ameche  was  a 
fellow  student.  And,  when  I  began  play- 
ing stock,  working  out  of  Chicago  with 
runs  of  six  to  eight  months  in  different 
towns  and  cities,  I  liked  that,  too. 

"One  of  the  towns  we  played  eight 
months  was  Birmingham,  Alabama.  Soon 
after  we  opened  there,  in  'Men  In  White,' 
I  was  invited  to  a  cocktail  party.  The  host, 
a  bachelor,  had  asked  one  of  the  local 
girls,  a  Miss  Lyn  Phillips,  to  be  his  hostess 
.  .  .  and,  because  she  accepted,  'stars  fell 
on  Alabama' — and  on  me— that  night! 

"Why  did  they?  Do  I  remember?  I  do 
remember  .  .  .  remember  that,  during  our 
matinee  that  afternoon,  the  whole  business 
district  of  Birmingham  burned  down  and 
that  the  talk  at  the  cocktail  party  was, 
naturally,  of  the  fire  .  .  .  with  some  of  the 
guests  pretty  upset  because  they  had  sus- 
tained serious  losses  .  .  .  and  so,  although 
I  noticed  how  golden-blond  our  hostess 
was,  what  impressed  me  first  of  all,  and 
most  of  all,  was  her  grace  and  charm  and 
know-how,  the  way  she  knew  what  she 
was  doing,  how  to  talk,  how  to  handle 
people.  These  would  be  nice  qualities,  I 
remember  thinking,  to  be  with  all  the 
time.  .  .  .  Remember,  too,  how  her  voice 
with  the  Southern  accent  came  over  the 
telephone,  when  I  called  her,  a  day  or  so 
later.  'Lyn  has  got  the  most  terrific  tele- 
phone voice  in  the  world!'  one  of  her 
colleagues  at  New  York's  Saks  Fifth  Ave- 
nue said  recently.  So  she  has.  And  so  she 
had,  in  Alabama,  twenty-two  years  ago.  .  .  . 

"I  remember  our  first  date.  We  played 
golf.  Lyn  was  the  golf  enthusiast  and  I,  the 
tennis  player  ...  so  tennis  was  our  second 
date.  (We  both  love  the  sun  so  much  that 
our  'dates'  these  days  are  on  a  beach,  up 
on  the  roof  or  somewhere,  anywhere,  we 
can  get  sun!)  I  remember  dancing  and 
music  and  moonlight  ...  I  remember  that 
it  was  all  very  exciting.  It  is  still,  after 
twenty-two  years,"  says  John,  "very 
exciting.  .  .  ." 

In  Chicago  again,  after  serving  time, 
quite  a  bit  of  it,  on  tour  throughout  the 
U.S.A.,  John  started  in  radio,  played  parts 
on  The  Empire  Builders,  the  first  big-time 
radio  dramatic  series  which  originated  out 
of  Chicago  .  .  .worked  a  couple  of  times 
on  Valiant  Lady,  which  was  then  a  radio 
show  .  .  .  and  made  a  TV  appearance  on 
CBS-TV's  Miracle  In  The  Desert,  a  story 
about  the  atomic  bomb  and  one  of  the  first 
scripts  written  especially  for  television. 

"Now  and  again,"  John  recalls,  "I  played 
some  out-of-town  radio  engagements.  In 
1940,  for  instance,  I  was  on  radio  in  Peoria, 


Goodbye  to  dull  faded  hair 

in  minutes  with  Marcband's  Rinse 

You  can  have  lovely  hair!  Bring  out 
natural  youthful  color,  rich  sheen. 
Blend  in  gray  streaks.  Tone  down 
yellow  in  white  hair.  Brownettes, 
brunettes,  blondes,  redheads  —  12 
glamorous  shades  made  with  Govt.- 
approved  colors,  wash  out  easily. 
Rinse  your  hair  in  extra  beauty  with 
Marchand's  after  each  shampoo.  At 
variety  and  drugstores  everywhere. 

In    lOf,  25$  and  39$  sizes 


ENLARGEMENT 

'  of y  our  Fai/Oftfe  Photo 


FROM  FAMOUS  HOLLYWOOD  FILM  STUDIOS 
Just  to  get  acquainted,  we  will 
make  you  a  beautiful  5x7  black 
and  white  enlargement  of  any 
snapshot,  photo  or  negative.  Also 
be  sure  to  include  color  of  hair, 
eyes  and  clothing,  and  get  our 
Air  Mail  Bargain  Offer  for  hav- 
ing your  enlargement  beautifully 
hand-colored  in  oil  and  mounted 
in  a  handsome  frame.  Limit  2  to  a  customer. 
Please  enclose  10c  to  cover  cost  of  handling  and 
mailing  each  enlargement.  Original  returned.  We 
■will  pay  $100.00  for  children's  or  adults  pictures 
used  in  our  advertising.  Act  NOW! 

Offer  limited  to  U.S.A.  only 

HOLLYWOOD  FILM  STUDIOS,  Dept.  F-270 
7021    Santa   Monica    Blvd.,    Hollywood   38,    Calif. 

YOU'D  NEVER  KNOW  I  HAD 

l-JH.MMHH 

As  hundreds  of  thousands  of  users 
have  learned,  Siroil  tends  to  re- 
move psoriasis  crusts  and  scales 
on  outer  layer  of  skin.  Light  ap- 
plications help  control  recurring 
lesions.  Siroil  doesn't  stain  cloth- 
ing or  bed  linens.  Offered  on  two- 
weeks -satisfaction -or -money 
refunded  basis.  23  years  of  suc- 
cessful results. 


55711 


fCT 


SIROIL 


*S.  D.  means  Skin  Disorder. 


AT  ALL  DRUG  STORES 

SEND  FOR  INTERESTING  FREE  BOOKLET  T0DAV_. 


SIROIL  LABORATORIES.  INC. 

Dept.  m-84,       Santa  Monica.  Calif. 
Please  send  me  your  free  booklet  on  Psoriasis. 


I 
I 

|  NAME. 
1  STREET 
■    TOWN. 


I 


Please  Print 


T 
V 
R 

85 


fa  Can  Play 


Mia  \ri  J  iiltti\^ 

m 

ANY  INSTRUMENT 

• .  •  even  if  you  don't  know 
a  single  note  of  music  now! 

TMAGINE!  Even  if  you  never  dreamed  you  could  play  .  .  . 
-1-  you  can  soon  surprise  your  friends  with  your  musical 
ability.  No  special  "talent"  or  previous  training  needed. 
Spend  just  a  few  minutes  a  day— and  only  a  few  cents  per 
lesson.  Teach  yourself  to  play  piano,  guitar,  accordion. 
Whatever  instrument  you  choose.  Make  amazingly  rapid- 
progress  because  you  start  right  out  playing  real  pieces 
by  note.  No  boring  exercises  to  do.  Over 
900,000  people  have  chosen  this  easy  home 
study  method.  WiM*& 

MAIL   COUPON    FOR    FREE    BOOK— Read   the      fc^**Wf nBiwfrl 
whole    fascinating    story    of   this    wonderful 
method    in    36-page    illustrated    book.    For- 
FREE    copy,    mail    coupon    to:    U.    S.    School 
of     Music.     Studio    2010,     Port    Washington,      |p 
N.   Y.    <58th   successful   year.)  WKemZZM 

U.   S.    SCHOOL   OF   MUSIC 

Studio   2010,    Port   Washington,    N.Y. 

Please    send    me    your    36-page    illustrated    Free    Book. 

I'm   interested  in  playing  (name  instrument) 

□  I  do  D  I  do  NOT— have  instrument  now. 

Name 

(please  print) 

Address 


4  How  to  Make  Money  with 
^-^  Simple  Cartoons' 


Simply  address 


ARTOONISTS'  EXCHANGE 
Dept.  5910  Pleasant  Hill,  Ohio 


M 


i  \S*\ 


No  classes  to  attend.  Easy  spare-time  train-  \ 
r\  ing  covers  big  choice  of  subjects.  Friendly  \ 
1  \  instructors;  standard  texts.  Full  credit  for\ 
I  \  previous  schooling.     Diploma  awarded. 
I    I  Write  now  for  FREE  catalog! 

71  WAYNE    SCHOOL    Catalog  HH-39J 
[  J  2527  Sheffield  Ave.,  Chicago  t4,  Illinois  y 


KILL  THE  HAIR  ROOT 


Destroy  unwanted  hair  PERMANENTLY.  Use  con- 
veniently at  home.  When  you  have  read  our  i 
nstruction  book  carefully  and  learned  to  use  J 
the  new  Mahler  Epilotor  safely  and  efficiently, 
then  you  can  remove  unwanted  hair  FOREVER. 
MONEY-BACK  GUARANTEE  (Our  76th  Year).  „ 


Send  S^TODAY  for  booklet  &f£ 


MAHLER'S.  INC.. 


PROVIDENCE  15.  R.  I 


T 

V 
R 

86 


w    w    w     *w   ^ 
I       Can't  Get  Rid  of 
I  Dark  or  Discolored  Skin, 
.Freckles,  Skin  Spots? 


HERE'S  HELP!  Mercolized  Wax  Cream 
7  NIGHT  PLAN  Lightens, 
Beautifies  Skin  While  You  Sleep 

Just  follow  the  famous  Mercolized  Wax 
Cream  7  Night  Plan  toa  whiter,  smoother, 
lovelier  skin.  Smooth  rich,  luxurious  Mer- 
colized Wax  Cream  on  your  face  or  arms 
just  be  fore  retiring  each  night  for  one  week. 
You'll  begin  to  see  results  almost 
at  once  .  .  .  lightens  dark  skin, 
blotches,  spots,  freckles  as  if  by 
magic!  This  is  not  acoverup  cos- 
metic; Mercolized  Wax  Cream 
works  UNDER  the  skin  surface. 
Beautiful  women  have  used  this 
time -tested  plan  for  over  40  years  — you'll 
love  it's  fast,  sure,  longer  lasting  results ! 
Mercolized  Wax  Cream  is  sold  on  100%  guar- 
antee or  money  back.    Start  using  it  now  ! 

MERCOLIZED  WAX  CREAM 
At  All  Drug  and  Cosmetic  Counters 


Ughtenc  dark 
skin  and  ugly 
spots  almost 
ofBtnlgtil. 


Illinois.  That  was  when  and  where  Lyn 
got  bored  and,  just  before  Christmas,  went 
to  Black  &  Kool,  the  Marshall  Field  of 
Peoria,  and  applied  for  a  job.  'Ever  work 
before?'  she  was  asked.  'No.'  'Ever  sold 
anything?'  'No.'  'Well,'  said  the  personnel 
manager,  'we  have  these  tie  racks  on  the 
first  floor.  They're  not  moving.  All  you 
have  to  do  is  sell  them  before  Christmas.' 
By  Christmas  Eve,  the  tie  racks  were  sold 
out.  After  that,  they  had  her  selling  gold 
bricks! 

"Lyn  is  now  the  manager,"  John  says 
with  pride,  "of  Executive  Suite  at  Saks 
Fifth  Avenue,  here  in  New  York — a  re- 
sult, in  an  off-beat  way,  of  the  tie  racks  in 
Peoria!  Actually,  the  idea  grew  out  of  the 
very  successful  Stag  Club  at  Saks.  Execu- 
tive Suite,  however,  services  women  and 
children,  as  well  as  men.  Lucille  Ball  calls 
from  Hollywood,  says:  'Get  me  this,  get  me 
that,  get  me  anything — you  know,  a  gift!' 
Someone  orders  a  case  of  pink  champagne 
and,  although  Saks  Fifth  does  not  'stock' 
pink  champagne,  the  order  is  filled.  You 
ask  Executive  Suite  for  it,"  says  the  man- 
ager's husband  expansively,  "and  you  get 
it!" 

In  1943,  the  Grahams  returned  to  New 
York,  where  John  had  a  role  in  "School 
for  Brides,"  which  ran  a  year  on  Broad- 
way. "Things  weren't  as  rough  as  they 
had  been  during  our  first  period  in  the 
big  city,"  he  says,  and  then  adds  with  a 
faint  smile,  "During  the  first  stretch,  I 
spent  two  years  lecturing  on  a  Greyhound 
bus  covering  the  World's  Fair  in  Flushing 
Meadows,  Long  Island.  I  sometimes  worked 
what  seemed  like  a  28-hour  day!  Since  the 
job  required  you  to  be  a  barker,  as  well 
as  driver,  only  a  few  actors  whose  voices 
stayed  together  could  stand  the  gaff. 

"On  Valiant  Lady,"  John  laughs,  "I'm 
the  'love  interest.'  I'm  quite  interested,  all 
right,  quite  involved  with  Helen  Emerson, 
and  becoming  more  so.  And,  because  the 
script  is  interesting,  the  characters  have 
dimension,  and  to  be  the  love  interest  is 
interesting.  I  really  like  to  do  character 
parts,  though,  off-beat  things  like  the 
mentally  sick  husband  I  played  for  quite 
some  time  in  CBS-TV's  Love  Of  Life. 

"In  New  York,  I've  appeared  in  a  couple 
of  Broadway  shows,  'The  French  Touch' 
and  'School  for  Brides.'  But  the  most  fun 
I  ever  had  in  the  theater  was  in  'The 
Moon  Is  Blue'  in  which  (out  of  town)  I 
was  the  'upstairs  bachelor'  who  comes  in 
late,  leaves  early,  gets  all  the  laughs.  Ac- 
tually, I — who  started  out  to  be  a  real 
serious  actor — prefer  comedy  to  every- 
thing else.  Love  to  hear  people  laugh.  A 
real  ham. 

"Or  perhaps  I  love  comedy  because 
I'm  so  easily  moved  to — and  by — tears.  A 
sentimental  man?  Oh,  yeah,"  John  laughs, 
"I'm  sloppy! 

Time  passed,  seasons  changed  and,  for 
actor  Graham,  the  grass  began  to  get 
greener.  In  addition  to  Love  Of  Life,  he 
appeared  on  Professor  Experience,  Game 
Of  Chess,  Lights  Out,  Hollywood  Screen 
Test,  The  Kate  Smith  Show.  Screen  wise, 
he  made  a  number  of  commercials  and 
documentary  films,  including  "Time  Out," 
which  won  second  place  at  the  Edinburgh 
Film  Festival.  "Speaking  of  films,"  says 
John,  "I  would  like,  I  would  very  much 
like  to  have  a  real  good  part  in  a  picture. 
Preferably,   comedy." 

Some  four  years  ago,  John  acquired  an 
alter  ego  (and  a  lucrative  as  well  as  a 
steady  assignment)  when  he  became  "Bill 
Parker"  for  the  Goodyear  Tire  &  Rubber 
Company.  "The  character  of  Bill  Parker," 
John  explains,  "is  that  of  a  retired  tire 
salesman  who  knows  all  there  is  to  know 
about  selling  tires.  As  Bill  Parker,  I  re- 
cord sales  talks  for  the  Goodyear  people 
which  are  sent  to  dealers  all  over  the 
U.S.A.  I  also  appear,  in  person,  on  indus- 
trial Goodyear  shows.  Here  again,"  John 


laughs,  "my  Midwestern  voice  was  an 
asset,  for  Bill  Parker  is  a  Midwesterner." 

And  now  another  "alter  ego"  in  the  very 
personable  person — not  to  say  presence — 
of  Governor  Lawrence  Freenian  Walker! 
"Whenever  I'm  asked  whether  or  not  I 
am  superstitious,"  John  observes,  "I  say, 
and  truthfully,  that  I  am  definitely  not. 
I  go  in  and  throw  a  hat  on  the  bed.  I  don't 
whistle  in  dressing  rooms,  but  only  out  of 
consideration  for  other  actors.  A  bird  fly- 
ing in  a  window  is,  to  me,  a  harbinger  of 
spring  rather  than  an  omen  of  death. 

"When  I  hear  the  word  'superstition,' 
however,  the  word  'numerology'  comes  to 
mind.  On  radio  in  Chicago,  some  years 
ago,  I  used  to  work  quite  a  bit  with  a 
character  man  who  was  a  numerologist. 
We  used  to  go  out  to  dinner  together  and 
he  would  tell  me  what  color  I  should 
wear,  what  day  of  what  month  was 
auspicious  for  me  .  .  .  Thursday,  he  said,  is 
'my'  day,  and  my  numbers  are  3  and  6 — 
or,  as  he  put  it,  'Your  combination  is  12.' 

"Well,  sir,  sitting  in  NBC  at  Chicago  one 
day,  waiting  for  calls  and  not  getting  any — 
not  one — I  went  back  to  my  apartment, 
changed  into  a  suit  that  called  for  a  green 
shirt  and  a  green  tie  (green,  I'd  been 
assured,  was  'my'  color) .  As  I  was  knotting 
the  tie,  the  phone  rang.  I  answered  and 
picked  up  three  calls,  three  definite  radio 
calls  on  the  Exchange.  The  day,  by  the 
way  was  Thursday.  The  time  was  6  P.M. 
The  month  was  the  sixth  month — June. 
And  it  was  June  6  of  this  year  that  my 
agent  called  me  for  Valiant  Lady. 

"Not  superstitious,"  John  says  firmly, 
"but,"  he  adds,  fingering  his  green  tie, 
"how  about  that?" 

Whether  or  not  credit  is  due  the  color 
green,  the  day  of  the  week,  the  month  of 
the  year,  the  grass  is  very  green  indeed 
these  days  for  actor  Graham.  And  for  John 
Graham,  husband,  father  and  hobbyist  ex- 
traordinary, these  days  are  rich  and  full 
.  .  .  for,  in  addition  to  training  starlings  to 
talk,  John  invents  and  develops  games  (he 
has  a  word  game  just  about  perfected 
now)  collects  old  clocks  ...  he  cooks 
("My  specialties,"  he  says,  "are  stews  and 
soups,  which  I  make  in  vast  quantities 
and  freeze  in  our  deep-freeze"),  and  he 
cultivates  miniature  potted  trees.  "Like 
the  Japanese,  you  know,  who  call  them 
'Bonsan.'  My  prize  specimen,"  says  John, 
"is  a  pine  tree  fifteen  years  old  and  eight- 
een inches  tall!  Mostly,  though,  I  go  in  for 
spruce  trees — rather  have  a  spruce  tree  in 
a  pot  than  a  plant!" 

In  his  spare  ._time,  virtuoso  Graham 
builds  furniture  for  the  charming  seven- 
room  apartment  in  midtown  Manhattan 
which,  for  eight  years,  the  Grahams  have 
called  home.  "Lyn  gets  the  ideas,"  John 
says.  "I  execute  them — book-shelves,  for 
instance,  which  include  space  for  my  potted 
trees  .  .  .a  coffee  table  with  plate  glass  on 
it,  which  permits  feet  to  be  placed  on  it 
...  a  bar  which  we  fastened  to  the  back 
of  the  desk  .  .  .  and  all  of  the  pieces  fin- 
ished in  black  enamel,  which  goes  well 
with  the  gray  walls  and  white  finish  of 
the  livingroom. 

"I  said  a  while  ago,"  John  observes, 
"that  being  with  Lyn  is  as .  exciting  now 
as  it  was  twenty-two  years  ago  in  Ala- 
bama. So  it  is.  I  think  the  reason — one 
of  the  reasons — is  that  we  have  so  many 
things  in  common:  Hobbies,  the  love  of 
baseball  and  of  the  sun,  an  interest  in 
each  other's  career;  the  shared  and  deeper 
love  of  and  interest  in  the  boys — and," 
John  grins,  "in  Willie!  A  way  of  life,  in 
other  words,  a  good  way — so  good  I  can 
only  hope  that  if,  in  due  course  of  time, 
Governor  Walker  and  Helen  Emerson  join 
hands  and  hearts,  they  will  be  able  to  say, 
twenty-two  years  later,"  John  smiles  that 
somehow  moving  smile  of  his,  "what  I  am 
saying   now." 


"Cheyenne!" 


(Continued  from  page  40) 
"mountain  of  a  man"  physical  proportions. 

I'm  six-foot-six  in  my  bare  feet,  weigh 
235  pounds,  have  a  17y2-inch  neck,  wear 
a  size-14  shoe,  size-13  boot.  When  you're 
built  steep,  the  upkeep  is  likewise.  You 
have  to  have  size-14  shoes  specially  made, 
or  pay  extra  for  them  in  the  few  places 
you  can  get  them  ready-made.  Suits  and 
shirts  are  problems,  too.  All  my  costumes 
for  "Cheyenne"  are  made  to  order,  because 
nothing  in  the  studio  wardrobe  depart- 
ment— outside   of  kerchiefs — fits   me. 

There  are  other  headaches:  Beds  are 
never  long  enough  for  me.  You  folks  who 
sleep  out,  on  vacation,  in  your  canvas 
bags,  pup  tents,  in  steamship  and  Pull- 
man berths,  should  take  pity  on  a  big 
hulk  like  me  who  can't  scrooch  into  any 
standard  sleeping  equipment. 

I'm  not  really  registering  a  complaint 
about  my  height.  Like  most  things,  it's  a 
mixed  blessing.  Once  my  high-heeled  cow- 
boy boots  pushed  the  top  of  my  head  clean 
out  of  the  camera  frame  on  the  set  of  a 
"Cheyenne"  teleplay.  On  the  other  hand, 
I  get  to  see  a  lot  of  things  other  people 
miss — parades  and  such — without  stretch- 
ing my  neck.  My  height  has  been  re- 
sponsible for  getting  me  jobs  and  for 
losing  me  others. 

On  February  30,  1950,  our  little  girl- 
name  of  Valerie  Jean — was  born.  She's 
got  blue  eyes  like  I  have,  dark  hair  like 
Verna's  and  mine,  but  she  doesn't  rightly 
take  after  either  of  us — bless  her  heart, 
I  think  she's  got  a  fresh  start!  Along  about 
this  same  time,  I  heard  from  a  buddy  of 
mine  who  was  ranching  out  in  Browns- 
wood,  Texas.  Doing  pretty  good,  too. 
There  was  a  fortune  to  be  made  in  the 
Lone  Star  State,  he  wrote. 

So  I  packed  up  the  wife  and  baby,  and 
drove  the  old  model-A  eleven  hundred 
miles  through  dust  storms,  snow,  sleet 
and  hail.  When  we  got  there,  the  only 
place  we  could  find  to  live  was  a  shack 
six  miles  out  of  Brownswood.  There  was 
no  electricity,  only  kerosene  lamps,  and  no 
running  water.  We  toted  our  kerosene  and 
water.  We  bathed  by  pouring  water  in  a 
bucket  punched  full  of  holes,  then  stand- 
ing under  the  makeshift  shower.  We  didn't 
have  a  bed,  so  we  laid  all  our  clothes  on 
the  floor  and  slept  on  them.  In  the  morn- 
ing, we  picked  them  up  again. 

Workwise,  Texas  didn't  come  up  to 
expectations,  either.  I  worked  on  various 
construction  jobs,  just  barely  making  the 
frayed  ends  meet,  did  a  little  prospecting 
and  spent  several  months  cowpunching  on 
one  of  the  big  Texas  ranches.  Meantime, 
comes  the  tornadoes  and  everybody  sells 
out.  So,  once  again,  the  Walker  family 
took  off  on  their  search. 

And  the  place,  unlikely  as  we  would 
have  thought  it,  turned  out  to  be  Holly- 
wood. And  by  a  fluke,  too. 

This  was  the  fluke:  We  were  driving  out 
of  Texas  when  we  came  to  a  fork  in  the 
road.  One  way  led  to  Florida,  the  other 
to  California.  I  asked  Verna,  "Which?" 
Verna  has  a  sister,  Virginia,  living  in 
Long  Beach,  California.  Verna  said  "Cali- 
fornia." 

In  Long  Beach,  I  went  to  work  selling 
insurance  again — and  half-starving  again. 
I  gave  that  up  to  take  the  job  of  guard 
on  the  waterfront.  Then  I  became  a  de- 
tective. Not  the  kind  that  ferrets  out 
who-dun-it.  Mostly,  I  accompanied  wealthy 
people  who  didn't  want  to  get  mugged 
and  beaten  up  for  the  money  or  valu- 
ables they  carried.  Later,  I  went  to  work 
as  a  bouncer  in  a  high-class  night  club. 

The  job  of  guard,  detective  and  bouncer 
were  mine,  I  realized,  because  of  my  size. 
So,  when  I  heard  that  Las  Vegas — where 


there  are  more  deputy  sheriffs  than  any 
other  place  in  the  U.S. — wanted  still  more 
of  them  and  wanted  big  men  for  the 
jobs,  I  packed  up  the  wife  and  child  and 
headed  for  Vegas. 

Searching  for  something,  that?s  what  I 
was  doing,  but  didn't  know  what.  .  .  . 

This  I  believe:  Every  human  being  has 
got  to  express  himself.  Every  one  of  us 
has  a  greatness  within  us — if  we  can  only 
find  ourselves.  Trouble  is,  most  of  us  are 
too  timid,  want  the  "bird  in  the  hand." 
A  case  of  not  being  afraid  to  gamble  is 
the  only  way.  ...  I  wasn't  afraid  to 
gamble.  Neither  was  Verna — which  is  the 
real  great  thing.  She  figures  I  do  what  I 
set  out  to  do. 

In  Vegas,  you're  supposed  to  be  a 
resident  for  three  months  before  you  can 
be  an  officer.  But  one  of  the  big  shots 
at  The  Sands  Hotel  wanted  me,  cut  all 
the  red  tape,  and  I  was  in — badge  and 
all — within  two  days. 

This  was  the  beginning  of  the  end  of 
my  search  for  the  something  I  couldn't 
name.  I  worked  at  The  Sands  for  a  year. 
During  the  year,  a  number  of  tourists  and 
guests  at  The  Sands  came  up  to  me  and 
said,  "I'm  sure  I've  seen  you  before.  Aren't 
you  in  pictures?" 

I  met  a  great  many  movie  stars,  too. 
Little  Janie  Powell  for  one.  Van  Johnson. 
Bob  Sterling.  Red  Skelton.  Danny  Kaye 
and  others.  And  they  weren't,  as  I'd 
thought,  a  different  breed.  One  day,  Danny 
Kaye  came  up  to  me,  put  his  foot  by  mine 
and  said,  "Boy,  you've  got  big  feet!"  Van 
Johnson  and  I  got  on  "Hiya"  terms  when- 
ever we  met.  One  day  Van  brought  this 
fellow  over.  "Norman,"  he  said,  "this  is 
Henry  Willson,  one  of  Hollywood's  top 
agents.  We've  been  discussing  you."  Then 
Mr.  Willson  said  that  if  ever  I  decided 
I  wanted  to  be  an  actor,  I  should  come  to 
Hollywood   and   look  him  up. 

All  this  caused  me  to  begin  thinking 
about  it  a  little.  But  just  a  little.  To  be 
a  movie  star  I  thought  you  have  to  have 
an  education.  I'd  had  very  little.  You  had 
to  sing  and  dance,  too.  Or  do  something 
special.  I  don't  sing  or  dance.  Or  do  any- 
thing special. 

Still  and  all— "Why  don't  we  try  it?" 
I  said  to  Verna.  "We  can  always  come 
back  here  later." 

So  we  loaded  up  the  '41  Oldsmobile  to 
which  we'd  graduated  by  now — headed 
for  Hollywood  with  two  hundred  bucks 
in  our  kick.  In  Hollywood,  Verna  went 
to  work  as  a  waitress  in  Bob's  Big  Boy 
Hamburger  joint  and  I  went  to  work  as 
a  bouncer  in  a  place  called  The  Big  Doll. 
Working  in  a  place  called  The  Big  Doll 
wasn't  exactly  to  my  taste,  but  the  job 
paid  three  dollars  an  hour.  It  took  just 
about  all  we  could  make,  the  two  of  us, 
to  pay  out  the  fifteen  dollars  a  week  to 
the  dramatic  coach  Mr.  Willson  sent  me  to. 

This  went  on  for  about  five  months. 
Mr.  Willson  set  up  several  studio  in- 
terviews for  me — but  no  takers.  One  day, 
I  came  out  of  U.I.  after  one  of  these 
interviews  that  netted  me  nothing.  On 
the  way  out  (this  is  going  to  sound  like 
the  stuff  they  dream  up  in  Hollywood) 
a  nice-looking  elderly  man  came  up  to 
me  and  introduced  himself  as  "Captain 
Somners." 

"I'm  an  old-timer  in  the  picture  busi- 
ness," he  said,  "I  was  watching  you  in 
the  commissary.  Like  the  way  you  handle 
yourself.  Under  contract  to  U.I.?" 

"No,  sir." 

"Well,"  he  said,  "you  don't  want  a 
contract  here — they've  got  Rock  Hudson. 
Cecil  B.  DeMille  is  an  old  friend  of  mine. 
I  think  he'd  like  to  see  you.  If  you  will 
give  me  your  telephone  number  .  .  ." 


How  I  Learned 

SHORTHAND 

in   O  Weeks 


SHORTHAND 

No  Symbols — No  Machine 
USES  ABC's 

By  Miss  Dulcie  Kaufman 
New  York,  N.  Y. 

"Six  weeks  after  enrolling  for 
SPEEDWBITINO  shorthand.  I 
could  take  dictation  at  the  rate  of 
120  words  per  minute  and  tran- 
scribe it  accurately.  Through  the 
School  ol  SPEEDWBITING'S 
Placement  Service,  I  was  hired  for 
a  secretarial  position  at  a  salary 
that  exceeded  any  I  had  earned 
previously." 

No  "Foreign  Language"  of  Symbols— with 


Over  350.000  men  and  women  have  learned  shorthand 
the  SPEEDWR1TING  way  at  home  or  through  class- 
room instruction  in  school  in  over  400  cities  in  U.S.. 
Canada,  Cuba  and  Hawaii.  Today  they  are  winning 
success  everywhere — in  business,  industry  and  Civil 
Service.  SPEEDWRITING  shorthand  is  easy  to  master 
— yet  it  is  accurate  and  speedy.  120  words  per  minute. 
Age  is  no  obstacle.  Typing  also  available. 

Pf)    PP  Write   TODAY   for  FREE   book   which    Kivc> 

full    details — and    FREE   sample    lesson    that 

r    WW    f    r       will    show  you  how  easilv  and    quickly  YOU 

II   L        .     can      learn      SPEEDWRITING      shorthand. 

"      ■■  ™  ™      Mall     the    coupon    NOW. 


DID  YOU 
SEE 


READER'S  DIGEST 


ARTICLE   ON 
SPEEDWRITING? 


School  of  SPEEDWRITING 

Dcpt.    310-6.    55    W.    42    St. 
New   York   36,    N.   Y. 


34th  Year 


Please   send  me  details  and  FREE   sample   lesson. 

D  Home  Study  D  Classroom  Instruction 

□    II    under   17.   check  here  for  Special   Booklet  A 


Address.. 
City 


POEMS  WANTED 

If  IbI       111     For  musical  setting   .    .    .    Send 
^^       vour     Poems     todav     for     FREE 


your    Poems    today    for    FREE 

subject.      Immediate     consideration. 


LAAftiuNAjiuN:     Any     subject,     immediate    consideration. 

CROWN  MUSIC  C0..1476-L  BroadwayfNew  York  36.  N.Y. 


HAIR  Wa^  REM0VED 


New    SCIENTIFIC    Formula, 
removes    unwanted    hair    im- 
mediately from  lips,  chin,  face, 
arms,  and  legs.  Yes,  now  you 
can    actually    remove    hair 
ABOVE-  and    BELOW    skin 
surface.   Not   a   painful  wax. 
EDEN  Hair  Remover  is  odor- 
less, and  leaves  the  skin  silky- 
smooth    and    lovely    to   touch. 
We  GUARANTEE  that  we  will  refund  your 
money  if  after  the  third  application  HAIR 
GROWS  BACK.  $2.00  •  Triple  size  $4.00 

(1  Free  when  you  buy  2) 
Enclose  cash,  check  or  money  order,  or  we 
will  send  C.O.D.  plus  46c  postage. 

EDEN    COSMETICS   CORP. 

Dept.  722,  Box  117,  Bay  Sta.,  Bklyn  35,  N.Y. 


Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 
New  Way  Without  Surgery 

Science  Finds  Healing  Substance  That 
Relieves  Pain — Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 

For  the  first  time  science  has  found  a 
new  healing  substance  with  the  astonishing 
ability  to  shrink  hemorrhoids  and  to  relieve 
pain  —  without  surgery. 

In  case  after  case,  while  gently  relieving 
pain,  actual  reduction  (shrinkage)  took 
place. 

Most  amazing  of  all  —  results  were  so 
thorough  that  sufferers  made  astonishing 
statements  like  "Piles  have  ceased  to  be  a 
problem!" 

The  secret  is  a  new  healing  substance 
(Bio-Dyne*)  — discovery  of  a  world-famous 
research  institute. 

This  substance  is  now  available  in  sup- 
pository or  ointment  form  under  the  name 
Preparation  H.*  Ask  for  it  at  all  drug  count- 
ers—money back  guarantee.     *Reg.  D.  S.  Pat.  otf. 


T 
V 
R 

87 


30  DAYS 
SUPPLY 

'  Safe  High  Potency  Nutritional  Formula 

VITAMINS 

MINERALS  and  AMINO  ACID 


25  proven  ingredients  -  11  vitqminslgp 
(including  blood-building  8-12  andpS 
folic  acid),  11  minerals,  choline, 
inositol  and  methionine  £ 
Yes,  we'll  send  you  this  $5.00  sup- 
ply free  to  prove  how  much  health- 
ier and  peppier  you  may  feel  after 
a  few  days'  trial!  We'll  also  send 
details  of  an  amazing  new  plan 
•  that  provides  a  full 
[  supply  of  vitamins 
every  month  for 
just  $2.00!  You're 
not  obligated  to 
buy  from  us  now 
I.  or  ever.  Mail  cou- 
"■%,  pon  now! 


EACH  0«ILY  C.  F. 
CAPSULE  CONTAINS 

Vitamin  A 

12.500  USP  Units 

Vitamin  0 

1,000  USP  Units 

Vitamin  C        7S  mg 

Vitamin  8-1      5  mg. 

Vitamin  6-2    2.5  mg. 

Vitamin  6-6    0.5  mg. 

Vitamin  8-12  1  meg. 

Niacin  Amide  40  mg. 

Calcium  Pan- 
tothenate     4  mg. 

Vitamin  E         2  I.U. 

Folic  Acid       0.5  mg. 
Plus  11  minerals, 
choline,  inositol 
and  methionine. 


VITASAFE  CORP..  Dept.  887 
43  W.  61st  St.,  New  York  23.  N.  Y. 
Please  send  free  trial  vitamins  and  details 
of  new  Plan  which  I  will  accept  or  reject. 
I  am  not  obligated  to  buy  anything. 
(I  enclose  25c  for  packing  and  postage.) 


Name. 


Address. 


City,  Zone,.  State I 

Only  one  trial  supply  per  family. 


SONG  POEMS  WANTED 

To  be  set  to  music.  Send  your  poems  today  for  free 
examination ! 

J.  CHAS.  McNEIL  (A.  B.   Master  of  Music) 
510-MG   So.   Alexandria  Los  Angeles  5,   Calif. 


(Wallet  Size 
'  2V2  x  3V4) 


SWAROTOS 

Everybody's  doing.it! 

Beautiful  portrait-quality 

photos  made  from  your 

favorite.snapshot  or  portrait! 

tor  Super-Speed  service, 

send  25c  extra 

Send  picture  and  money  to: 

WALLET  PHOTOS.  Hillside,  N.l.  BOX  Q 

we  pay  postage 


MONEY  SACK  GUARANTEE 


'  ©or  Reference     Your 


Berman's  Diamond  Loan  Bank 

Dept.  TG  — BERMAN  BlDG.,  BALTO.  1,  MD. 
Make  Money  Like  MAGIC! 


Itccu 


MACIC-UIS7M" 


HAME-W-SILVER  TALL  CHRISTMAS  CARDS 

pay  <;  x   c 

youvO  J  On  Josf  65  Boxes.' 


INewest  idea  TALL  Christmas  Cards. 

\lRich,  radiant  colors  glow  like  magic; 

'\  sell  like  magic.  You  make  $1  on  every 

\box!  New  and  different  SOUTHERN 

i\BEAUTY  21-Card  assortment;  Reli- 

'igious  Cards;  Photo-Personals;  3-IN-l 

Ensembles.    Name- Imprinted  Christ- 

CpeCI    •  mBSCard325forSl\.Youmakeuptol60% 

L-VJfr  !?*•.?*■  ?  cash  profit.   Cash  bonus  extra!    Fast  24- 

fXCLUSIVt    "  hour  service.  No  experience  needed.  Get 

Presentation  Book   •  8amPle  Presentation  Book  FREE,  plus 

of44sampl«      J  assortments  on  approval.  Send  couponl 

EDCCI      I  SOUTHERN  GREETINGS* Dept*  P* 3  *" 
_  r  K  E  E   •       »478  N.Hollywood  St.,  Memphis  12, Tenn.  • 

J         $1.95  South.™  #3 1  ' 

8»u»Doir^^|iLi  "<■"■« ; 

B         «lv«nfor{Sr}»p|a||i>i'4<<*-e»« * 

ptmjtaw/syfflfc>  citv&stat, I 

88  ^  M  ' •••«•« 


I  did,  and  as  we  said  goodbye  I  thought, 
Nice    guy    but   there    won't    be    any    call. 

Two  weeks  later  came  a  call  from 
Paramount.  Henry  Wilcoxon,  Mr.  De- 
Mille's  assistant,  was  on  the  wire.  "Come 
over,"  he  said. 

Mr.  Wilcoxon  saw  me,  and  must  have 
liked  me,  for  he  had  Mr.  DeMille  see 
me.  Mr.  DeMille,  who  was  then  casting 
for  his  great  film,  "The  Ten  Command- 
ments," had  me  read  from  the  Bible.  He 
seemed  to  like  the  way  I  read,  but  I 
didn't  have  any  experience  and  he  couldn't 
take  a  chance. 

I  did  get  two  screen  tests,  though,  both 
Westerns.  And  when  producer  Hal  Wallis, 
then  at  Paramount,  saw  them,  he  signed 
me  up  for  six  months — at  $175  a  week! 
During  that  six  months,  I  didn't  get  to 
shoot  a  foot  of  film.  I  did  get  some  dra- 
matic training  at  the  studio,  though,  as  well 
as  with  my  own  teacher.  At  the  end  of 
the  six  months,  Mr.  Wallis  let  me  go. 

Right  after  this,  Mr.  DeMille  gave  me 
a  part,  a  small  one,  in  "The  Ten  Com- 
mandments." I  had  one  line  of  dialogue: 
"Look,  some  devil's  curse!"  Mr.  DeMille 
liked  the  way  I  read  it,  and  they  were 
all  set  to  shoot — when  the  cameramen 
beckoned  to  Mr.  DeMille.  They  talked  a 
minute,  then  Mr.  DeMille  came  over  to  me 
and  said,  "I'm  very  sorry  but,  looking 
through  the  camera,  all  I  can  see  is  you. 
The  others  in  the  scene  look  like  stumps 
around  a  tree."  So  I  was  not  only  stripped 
of  my  one  line,  but  taken  out  of  the 
scene  as  well. 

The  size  angle  entered  into  this,  and 
continued  to  do  so.  No  actor  wants  a  big 
fellow  (or,  at  least,  one  as  big  as  me)  in 
a  picture  with  him.  You  attract  too  much 
attention.  Even  the  villain,  matched  up 
against  a  big  hulk,  looks  like  the  under- 
dog and  wins  audience  sympathy.  (In 
"Cheyenne,"  they  put  me  up  against  two 
or  three  villains  so  I  won't  look  like  a 
bully.)  Since  no  actor  wanted  to  play  a 
scene  with  me,  even  in  a  second  lead,  my 
only  chance  was  to  get  a  leading  role. 
But,  with  no  experience,  I  was  on  a 
merry-go-round. 

And  I  was  riding  it  when  Mr.  Willson 
arranged  an  interview  for  me  at  Warner 
Bros.  They  took  an  option  on  me  with 
the  idea  of  grooming  me  for  pictures. 
Right  at  this  time,  it  so  happened,  Warners 
were  testing  actors  for  the  "Cheyenne" 
series.  "Go  on  over,"  Mr.  Warner  told 
me,  "and  test."  When  he  saw  the  test — 
"This  is  the  boy  I  want,  for  Cheyenne 
Bodie,"  Mr.  Warner  said.  And  so,  in- 
stead of  being  groomed  for  pictures,  I 
just  went  to  work.  .  .  . 

The  kind  of  work  that's  great  stuff  if 
you  can  get  it.  I  get  a  great  boot  out  of 
"Cheyenne,"  mainly  because  the  role  is 
different.  They  wanted  to  get  away  from 
the  shoot- 'em-up  formula  and  make 
"Cheyenne"  more  adult.  And  they  have. 
I  ride  any  old  cayuse  that  comes  along. 
My  clothes  are  unbeautiful,  rumpled,  and 
frequently  dirty.  In  the  accepted  tradi- 
tion of  Westerns,  the  hero  is  always  right. 
I'm.  not.  1  make  mistakes.  I  don't  go 
around  looking  for  wrongs  to  right,  either, 
and  I  get  to  kiss  the  girl.  Different  girls, 
too.  For  each  story  has  a  different  cast. 
Only  character  that's  stationary  is  me. 

Even  after  I  signed  my  Warner  Bros, 
contract  and  went  to  work  I  wasn't 
sure — it's  hard  for  me  to  believe  now- — 
that  this  was  for  me.  Only  thought  in  my 
mind  was  to  make  enough  money  to  get 
me  out  of  those  too-short  beds!  That 
isn't  good  enough.  You've  got  to  be 
sincere,  got  to  like  what  you're  doing. 
Then  as  I  got  over  being  self-conscious 
(which  I  sure  was  at  the  start)  and  got 
into  it,  I  began  to  like  what  I  was  doing, 
to  believe  in  what  I  was  doing,  to  want 
to  improve. 


That's  when  I  knew  I  had  found  the 
something  I  was  searching  for,  that  I 
was  doing  what  I  wanted  to  do.  That  I 
was  home. 

And  so  I  was.  And  am.  Literally.  We 
finally  made  a  down  payment  on  a  house. 
The  publicity  boys  want  me  to  say  it's  an 
eleven-room  house,  with  swimming  pool. 
It  isn't.  It's  a  six-year-old,  six-room  just 
plain  house.  What  makes  it  special  to  us 
is  that  it's  our  first  home.  And  I've  got 
me  a  king-sized  bed  now.  And  Verna, 
who  is  fixing  the  place  up,  got  a  sectional 
couch  eighteen  feet  long — here  to  there 
— for  the  living  room. 

I've  got  me  a  drill  press,  too,  a  sander, 
guns,  a  spear  for  hunting  wild  boar 
(which  I  aim  to  do  in  the  wilds  of  Mexico) , 
a  skin-diving  helmet,  a  Geiger  counter,  an 
ultra-violet-ray  lamp,  and  a  1941  station 
wagon  which  does  duty  as  a  prospecting 
truck.  Have  quite  a  few  boots — and  a  new 
guitar  I'm  trying  to  learn  to  play  right. 

I  don't  go  out  much  or  see  too  many 
people.  All  my  time  is  picture  time.  Any 
time  I  do  have,  I  usually  head  for  the 
hills.  During  my  hitchhiking  in  previous 
years  I  got  to  love  the  desert  and  the 
mountains,  the  mesas  and  the  plateaus. 
The  rugged  country  ...  I  still  love  it.  If 
it  weren't  for  pictures,  I'd  live  in  Nevada. 
So,  when  I  can,  I  go  into  the  hills  or  to 
Death  Valley  or  150  miles  to  the  Mohave 
Desert  prospecting  for  uranium,  exploring 
for  fluorescent  minerals  and  gem  stones 
like  opals  and  amethysts.  Once  or  twice 
I've  found  uranium — but  a  sign  reading 
"John  Jones"  gives  me  to  understand 
that  someone  has  staked  it  out  first! 

Studio's  always  afraid  I'll  hit  uranium 
big  and  quit.  But  I  won't.  I'm  a  religious 
man.  I  very  definitely  believe  in  a  Divine 
Power,  a  Supreme  Intelligence.  I  believe 
in  the  Ten  Commandments.  I  believe  in 
"going  to  church"  every  day  simply  by 
doing  what's  right.  I  also  believe  we  each 
of  us  have  a  definite  purpose,  and  that 
purpose  is  to  grow,  to  become  more  aware, 
to  fulfill  our  mission  on  earth.  I  feel  I  have 
a  goal  to  reach,  so  I  don't  think  I'll  find 
uranium.  Besides,  I've  just  signed  a  new 
contract  with  Warner  Bros.  —  another 
seven  years  to  go— so  I  figure  I'll  be 
around  Burbank  for  awhile. 

It  was  in  December  of  1952  that  we 
pulled  up  stakes  in  Texas  and,  by  the 
fluke  I've  mentioned,  landed  in  Long 
Beach,  California — which  was  actully  the 
first  lap  on  the  way  to  Hollywood.  It 
was  July,  1954,  that  we  took  the  big 
gamble  and  headed  for  Hollywood.  It 
was  June,  1955,  that  I  tested  for  "Chey- 
enne." It  was  fall  of  '55  that  the  "Chey- 
enne" series  was  launched  over  the 
ABC-TV  network.  And  here  I  am,  where 
I  am. 

TV  can  make  a  nobody  into  a  somebody 
overnight.  And  tjiat,  for  sure,  is  what 
it  did  for  me.  But  not — powerful  medium 
though  it  is — by  itself  alone.  And  this  is 
what  I've  been  leading  up  to  right  along 
...  I  have  some  thank-yous  to  say.  First 
of  all — most  of  all — to  Verna,  who  stood 
by  me  and  believed  in  me,  never  doubted, 
never  complained  (not  even  under  the 
bucket  punched  full  of  holes!).  Then  to 
the  others  ...  to  Captain  Somners  and 
Van  Johnson  and  Henry  Willson  and 
Henry  Wilcoxon  and  Mr.  DeMille  and  the 
Warner  Brothers  and  the  gang  at  the 
American  Broadcasting  Company  .  .  . 
to  all  the  others  who've  given  me  the 
feeling  of  being  taller  in  the  saddle  than 
I  am! 

Last,  but  not  least — and  you  can  say 
that  again — to  you  folks  out  there,  you 
fans  and  friends  who  make  me  welcome 
on  your  TV  screens  at  home,  who  write 
the  letters  and  say  the  word  that  keeps 
"Cheyenne"  on  the  ABC-TV  network. 

Thanks,  folks,  one  and  all. 


Dream  Stuff 


(Continued  from  page  42) 
steel  guitar.  But  that  was  no  way  to  make 
a  living,  establish  a  home  and  a  family. 

For  Merrill  was  planning  to  be  married. 
Not  right  away,  not  at  least  until  he  had 
made  a  stake  for  himself  and  could  afford 
a  home  and  a  worry-free  family  life  .  .  . 
the  kind  he  himself  enjoyed  with  his  par- 
ents and  three  younger  Behunins.  He'd 
get  that  college  degree,  then  possibly — 
well,  probably — do  a  stretch  in  uniform, 
and  then  settle  down. 

He  was  already  "going  steady"  with  the 
girl  he  wanted  to  settle  down  with,  a 
slender  blue-eyed  blonde  named  Faye 
Philpott.  He  had  given  her  a  ring — a 
square  sapphire.  Not  really  an  engagement 
ring.  He  didn't  feel  they  were  old  enough 
for  that  yet.  But  they  both  recognized  its 
significance,  though  it  would  be  years  be- 
fore they  could  think  seriously  about  mar- 
riage. 

But  all  that  was  a  year  ago.  .  .  .  Now, 
as  Buddy  Merrill,  this  same  boy  is  a 
burgeoning  television  star,  youngest  of 
Lawrence  Welk's  Champagne-Music- mak- 
ers. 

The  whole  thing  came  about  by  pure 
accident,  he  will  tell  you  today,  his  brown 
eyes  twinkling.  As  Merrill  Behunin,  he  was 
a  musician,  but  only  his  family  and  a  few 
close  high  school  pals  were  aware  of  it. 
And  the  neighbors — who  could  hear  him 
playing  and  singing  his  favorite  Western 
songs  on  warm  spring  evenings  when  the 
windows  were  open.  He  had  never  even 
seen  The  Lawrence  Welk  Show.  .  .  . 

Until  one  evening  when  a  next  door 
neighbor,  Mrs.  Ruth  Anderson,  burst  into 
the  Behunin  home  with  the  news  that 
Welk  had  just  announced  an  all-American 
music  competition — Buddy  must  enter  it. 
All  that  was  required  was  that  he  send 
in  a  tape  of  one  of  his  numbers. 

-His  parents  agreed  that  it  was  a  wonder- 
ful idea,  but  Buddy  was  skeptical.  What 
chance  had  he,  against  all  the  thousands 
of  contestants  who  were  sure  to  enter  a 
coast-to-coast  contest?  It  was  Faye  who 
swung  him  into  action.  "What  can  you 
lose?"  she  asked  him.  "You  have  the  tapes, 
and  they  are  good,  you  know." 

Together  they  huddled  in  Buddy's  room, 
where  his  recording  equipment  and  in- 
struments were,  played  over  a  dozen  or 
so  tapes,  chose  the  one  they  agreed  was 
best  and  mailed  it  to  Lawrence  Welk. 
Then,  since  it  was  the  end  of  the  school 
year  and  they  were  in  a  whirl,  they  for- 
got about  it.  .  .  . 

Until,  three  weeks  later,  Lawrence  Welk 
phoned.  Buddy  had  to  sit  down  to  talk  to 
him,  he  was  so  nervous.  Did  Buddy  have 
some  more  tapes,  could  he  send  in  one  or 
two  more?  He  could.  .  .  .  From  that  point 
on,  he  thought  about  nothing  but  the  con- 
test. But  no  word  came,  day  after  day. 

Then  another  telephone  call.  Could 
Buddy  come  down  to  the  Aragon  Ball- 
room, where  the  Welk  band  was  playing, 
to  meet  the  maestro — say  next  Friday 
night?  Buddy  gulped.  That  was  to  be  his 
graduation  night.  "Good,"  said  Welk, 
"come  after  the  graduation  .  .  .  and  bring 
your  guitar!" 

Buddy  and  Faye  drove  to  Ocean  Park 
to  the  ballroom,  hardly  speaking  in  their 
tension,  Buddy's  guitar  thrown  hastily  into 
the  back  seat,  along  with  his  spanking  new 
diploma. 

The  usual  mob  scene  was  in  progress  at 
the  ballroom,  with  hundreds  of  dancers 
and  just-plain-listeners  crowded  up  under 
the  bandstand.  Buddy  and  Faye,  feeling 
shy  and  scared,  kept  to  themselves  away 
from  the  crowd.  But,  at  the  next  inter- 
mission, they  mustered  up  their  courage 
and   approached   Mr.  Welk. 


"So  you're  Merrill  Behunin,"  he  said, 
grabbing  Buddy's  hand.  "You're  good,  do 
you  know  it?"  Buddy  murmured  em- 
barrassed thanks.  "Want  to  play  a  number 
with  the  band  tonight?" 

This  was  the  Big  Chance.  It  might  even 
cinch  the  contest.  .  .  .  Buddy  grabbed  his 
guitar,  climbed  onto  the  stand,  talked  over 
his  arrangement  with  Welk,  pianist  Larry 
Hooper  and  accordionist  Myron  Floren 
.  .  .  and,  gulping,  said  he  was  ready. 
Lawrence  Welk  made  a  nice  little  speech 
introducing  "a  fine,  undiscovered  talent," 
brought  down  his  baton  and  the  number 
began.  Came  Buddy's  moment  to  play — 
and  his  amplifier  went  out! 

There  went  the  Big  Chance,  Buddy 
thought,  and  all  hopes  of  winning  the  con- 
test along  with  it.  He  was,  of  course, 
despairing  too  soon.  He  not  only  won  the 
contest — $500  and  elaborate  prizes — he  won 
a  spot  as  one  of  the  "Champagne  Music" 
regulars. 

That  was  in  June,  1955.  In  July,  the 
Welk  show  went  coast-to-coast,  with 
Buddy  as  one  of  the  featured  entertainers. 

If  Buddy  had  had  time  to  think,  this  past 
year,  he  would  have  been  able  to  do  a 
lot  of  revising  of  those  well-laid  plans  for 
the  future  he  had  blocked  out  for  himself 
— and  Faye. 

The  Welk  routine  is  a  killer,  even  for 
musicians  much  older  than  Buddy,  and 
professionals  of  much  longer  standing. 
The  band  plays  at  the  Aragon  five  nights 
a  week,  Wednesday  through  Sunday. 
Buddy  leaves  as  soon  as  he  can  after  the 
2  A.M.  sign-off,  but  it  is  still  three  before 
he  can  drive  to  Gardena  and  pile  into  bed. 

On  Friday  nights,  three  is  not  really 
early  enough — since  the  band  checks  in 
at  ABC-TV  in  Hollywood  for  rehearsal  at 
9  A.M.  on  Saturday.  Early  Saturday  eve- 
ning, they  do  the  show,  after  rehearsing 
strenuously  all  day.  Then  they  pile  into 
their  cars  and  head  for  the  ballroom  for 
yet  two  more  late  nights. 

"On  Saturday  nights,  music  keeps  ring- 
ing in  my  ears  for  hours  after  we  finish," 
Buddy  says.  "I  can't  seem  to  close  it  out." 

Mondays  and  Tuesdays  are  "off  days," 
however  .  .  .  unless,  of  course,  Lawrence 
Welk  schedules  a  recording  session  .  .  . 
and  the  Behunin  family — and  Faye — make 
the  most  of  it. 

The  patio  of  the  Behunins'  pleasant, 
modern  three-bedroom  house  in  Gardena 
has  all  the  necessary  equipment  for  out- 
door living  in  the  best  California  tradition. 
On  Buddy's  "off"  evenings,  Mrs.  Behunin, 
concocts  wonderful  barbecue  suppers  with 
Faye's  help,  and  Buddy  can  lie  back  on  a 
garden  chaise  and  relax. 

"Even  then,"  his  mother  says,  "he's  usu- 
ally thinking  about  music  .  .  .  going  over 
arrangements  in  his  head."  He  has  done 
four  arrangements  for  the  band  so  far, 
including  one  specialty  of  his  own,  and 
is  dreaming  of  the  time  he  will  be  skilled 
enough  .  .  .  and  with  enough  time  on  his 
hands  ...  to  try  his  hand  at  recordings 
of  his  own — multiple-style  guitar  music, 
a  la  Les  Paul. 

"I  find  myself  talking  to  him  sometimes," 
Faye  says,  "and  realize  he  isn't  hearing  a 
word  I  say.  He  just  isn't  there."  Fortunate- 
ly for  their  romance,  Faye  understands 
this — even  encourages  it. 

It  was  Buddy's  music — his  knowledge, 
as  well  as  his  skill — which  first  attracted 
her  to  him.  Faye  herself,  who  has  just 
been  graduated  from  Washington  High 
School  in  Los  Angeles,  started  out  with 
ideas  of  a  musical  career.  It  was  a  boy 
she  met  in  a  seventh-grade  band  class 
(she  played  the  drums)  who  introduced 
her  to  Buddy — and  lost  her,  simultane- 
ously. 


'wTiyfotAf  .i 


PERMANENT  DARKENER  K> 
FOR  LASHES  AND  BROWS  g&i 

•  A  beautiful  TINT! 

•  ONE  APPLICATION  LASTS  4-5  WBBKSl 

Takes  just  seconds  to  apply  .  .  .  slays  on 
4  to  5  weeks!  "Dark-Eyes"  is  the  perfect 
Way  to  make  eyelashes  and  brows  com- 
pletely natural  looking  .  .  .  and  it  will  not 
harden  or  break  theml  "Dark-Eyes"  is  NOT 
A  MASCARA!  Will  not  stick  to  eyelash 
>  curler.  Eliminates  the  bother  of  daily  eye 
make-up.  It  is  PERMANENT, 
SWIMPROOF,  SMUDGEPROOF. 
TEARPROOF,  and  SMEAR- 
PROOF! 

$1.00  fp/us  fax)  of  leading  drug, 
dept.  and  variety  chain  stores. 

'DARK-EYES"  COMPANY,  Dept.  PI 06 
3319  W.  Carroll  A**.,  Chicago  24,  III. 

I  enclose  2St  (coin  or  ttompl— tox  included)  for  TRIAL  SIZE 
PACKAGE  of  "Dark-Eyei"  with  directions. 

check  color:    □  Black   □  Brown 


Name 

Addren_ 

Town_ 


J 


s 


with 


EW  BABY  SHOES 

AT   HOME   ....   No   Canvassing.    $40 
Weekly    possible. 
Write  TINY-TOT  CO..  Gallipolis  32,  Ohio 

Cover  all 
BLEMISHES 

ttideii 

fiuo&ecum/ 

A  Quick,  Simple  Way  to 

Hide  Pimples,  Scars,  Freckles,  Birth- Marks 

and  Shadows  under  the  Eyes. 

In  five  shades:  Light,  Medium,  Brunette,  Rachel  and  Sun-Tan. 
An  excellent  velvet-smooth  powder  base. 

Purse  size  25c  plus  tax.   Large  size  $1.25  plus  tax. 

At  all  Dime,  Dept.  and  Drug  Stores. 

MUM  A  II   C   Pf1      525     WEST  HARRISON  STREET 
nUMHILO    t»U.    DEPT.   A-10    -   CHICAGO  44, ILL. 


Why  are  Smart 

BLONDES 


their  HAIR? 

Only  1  of  you  in  39  is  "Natural" 

use  this  special  shampoo  between  touch-uos  to  wash 

in  radiant  golden  shine,  new  highlights! 


Has  "touching-up"  left  your  hair  dull  or  "brassy"-looking,  brit- 
tle and  hard  to  manage?  Now,  without  tints,  rinses  or  that  ugly 
bleached  look,  you  can  safely  give  your  hair  the  sparkling  shine 
and  radiant,  golden  highlights  that  men  love!  Called  BLONDEX, 
this  specraf-for-bfondes  shampoo  contains  ANDIUM  to  shine  and 
lighten  as  it  shampoos.  Try  BLONDEX  at  home  tonight.  See  how 
its  creamy,  billowy  lather  washes  away  the  dingy  film  that 
keeps  hair  dark  and  dull-looking  —  uncovers  flattering  lightness 
and  lustre.  Fine  for  children's  delicate  hair.  Get  BLONDEX  today 
at  10«,  drug  and  dept.  stores. 


T 
V 

I 

89 


RELIEF  IF  YOUR  FALSE  TEETH 
HURT!. ..SUP!. ..DON'T  FIT! 


NEW— the  ONLY  soft,  plastic-coated 
DENTAL  CUSHIONS  AVAILABLE! 

Comfort  and  perfect  fit  guaranteed 
just  place  pad  on  plate! 

Soothing  to  gums  made  sore  by  loose 
plates. ..these  cushions  give  lasting  bless. 
ed  relief.  Loose  plates  fit  tighter.  Chew 
all  kinds  of  foods.  Enjoy  comfortable 
plates  a  lithe  time!  Easy  touse.  Nopastes, 
no  powders.  Satisfaction  or  money  back. 

Send  $1.00  for  8  uppers— $1.00  for  10  lowers 
Tru-Aid  Products  Co.,  Dep't  396 
Box  9398,  Phila.  39,  Pa. 


MATERNITY 
STYLE  CATALOG 


W 


SAVE  MONEY-Shop  by  Mail!  FREE  cata-     faffi 
log  pictures  hundreds  of  exclusive  ma-    0 
ternity  fashions.  World's  Largest.  Complete 
Selection,  Dresses,  Suits,  Mix  &  Match  Sep- 
arates, Sportswear,  Girdles,  Lingerie;  $2.98 
to  $22.98.  Catalog  mailed  in  plain  envelope.    £M>  j .. 

CRAWFORD'S  &ci'V 

Dept  35,   8015  Wornall.Kansas  City  14,Mo. 


Z  Childs  Photo 


PAID  if  used  for  advertising.  BIG  DE- 
MAND for  photos  of  infants  and  up  to 
18  .vrs.  May  also  qualify  for  FREE 
CAMERA.  Send  ONE  small  photo  for 
approval.  Print  child's  and  mother's 
name,  address  on  back.  Returned  two 
weeks.    NO    OBLIGATION. 

ADVERTISERS    PHOTOS 
6000- HX    Sunset.     Hollywood    28,    Calif. 

GOODY,  GOODY,  DADDY'S  HOME 
. . .  even  after  a  tough  day  at  work 

Bread-winning  worries  sometimes 
leave  you  less-than-f un-to-be-with 
when  you  get  home.  No  wonder 
you  feel  impatient  and  restless. 
That's  when  Miles  NERVINE 
can  be  such  a  help.  You  don't  want 
something  to  make  you  listless. 
You  want  Miles  NERVINE— it 
simply  relaxes  you,  soothes  your 
nerves,  helps  you  keep  good-na- 
tured. Follow  the  label,  avoid  ex- 
cessive use.  Buy  Miles  NERVINE 
— effervescent  tablets  or  liquid — 
at  your  drugstore. 

FOR  EASIEST  EXTRA  MONEY  i 


Sell  NEW  EXCLUSIVE  25  for  SV-1 


Quickest  Way  to  Make  75^ 


■i- 


EXCLUSIVE  "GoldLuxury"  Assortment  pays 
you  big  75c  profit  on  every  $1.25  box— $75.00  on 
100.  Make  more  with  other  Christmas  EXCLU- 
SIVES: — big  selection  Name-Imprinted  Cards; 
TALL  Card,  21  in  $1  box;4-in-l  ^Simply  Colos- 
sal" Box;  Gift  WRAPS  BY-THE-YARD.  56  /  M*tt"l ««»«,«  / 
ft.  roll;  sensational  new  Gift  Novelties;  over 
250  money-makers.  You  make  highest  profits 
plus  EXTRA  CASH  BONUS.    Money-back 

Guarantee  assures  you  up  to  20c  more  profit  per     /&*K      "J* 

box. EXTRA  samples  ATioc.otherBurprifies.  A?  Guaranteed  by 
S«nd  coupon  for  Free  Trial  camples  NOW.  I  Good  Housekeeping 

£$£&i         ["CARDINAL  CRAmMElJ^^^JESE^ 

rp     JllBBiA  140°  s,8,e  A*8-*  0ept-  L'M'     Cincinnati  14,  Ohio 

lA  r         ■^■fTl  fl^     Please  Bend  money-  making  kit  of  5  boxes  oo 
SLL^^BUUUIA    approval,    FREE    Personalized   Samples  and 

T         IF   ItllffflT  ™EE  ■>*"■• 

I     nuoFfStil Nam- 

"  MP-UP  TOASTER  |   Addrr... - - 

MtlPtppwSrt' 

t«j  prompt  action  Uil"-f  — --—-J-—  --—-—— ~—-t 


The  boy  was  a  sailor,  home  on  leave, 
who  wanted  to  go  and  visit  his  former 
girlfriend,  Faye.  Since  he  had  no  car,  his 
friend  Buddy  volunteered  to  drive  him  into 
town.  Faye  and  Buddy  got  to  talking  about 
music,  and  almost  forgot  that  the  poor 
sailor  was  there.  All  the  plans  to  go  out 
to  the  movies,  maybe  to  a  hamburger 
stand  for  a  snack,  were  forgotten,  too. 
Faye  started  hauling  out  records,  the 
music  talk  went  on — and  Faye  and  Buddy 
have  been  "steadies"  ever  since. 

Faye  chucked  her  music  major  in  high 
school,  and  was  graduated  prepared  for  a 
secretarial  career.  That's  just  fine  for 
Buddy.  Already  he  is  getting  over  a  hun- 
dred --fan  letters  a  week — which  with 
Faye's  help,  he  can  answer  promptly  .  .  . 
To  say  nothing  of  presents  from  all  over 
the  country — an  antique  clock,  cuff-links, 
a  life  preserver   (?),  a  chocolate  cake. 

In  return  for  Faye's  services  as  "private 
secretary"  to  Buddy,  Mrs.  Behunin  is 
teaching  her  son's  fiancee  some  of  the 
things  she  will  need  to  know  when  she 
becomes  a  homemaker:  How  to  cook  and 
sew,  how  to  cope  with  the  children.  Mon- 
nie,  Buddy's  brother,  is  fourteen  and  a 
student  at  Gardena  Junior  High  School. 
Judy  is  thirteen  and  Gloria  only  four,  so 
Faye  is  getting  a  liberal  education. 

Everyone  in  the  Behunin  household  is 
ready  to  pitch  in  and  help  with  Buddy's 
exciting  new  career,  it  seems.  Recently, 
after  a  week  of  one-night  stands,  airplane- 
hopping  all  over  the  Pacific  Northwest, 
Buddy  came  down  with  the  flu — ran  a 
temperature  of  103,  and  had  everybody 
worried  to  death  that  he  would  not  be 
able  to  do  the  Saturday-night  telecast. 
(The  Welk  orchestra  "hits  the  road"  about 
one  week  out  of  every  six,  and  this  is  ex- 
hausting, too.) 

With  expert  nursing,  Buddy  licked  the 
fever  in  time  for  Saturday  night,  but  he 
still  had  acute  laryngitis,  couldn't  sing  a 
note.  So  his  father,  Leslie  Behunin,  went 
on  with  him — sang  a  stirring  old  ballad 
to  Buddy's  accompaniment.  Mr.  Behunin 
has,  as  his  Irish  name  would  imply,  a  fine, 
high,  Irish  tenor — which  came  as  a  distinct 
shock  to  most  of  his  co-workers  at  the 
Zenith  Aircraft  Plant  where  he  is  shop 
foreman. 

Leslie  Behunin  probably  could  have  had 
a  musical  career,  too.  It  was  he  who  taught 


Buddy  the  rudiments  of  the  Spanish  guitar 
when  he  was  six — and  when  he  was 
eleven,  proudly  gave  him  the  steel  guitar 
which  is  still  Buddy's  favorite  instrument. 
He  must  have  been  a  good  teacher.  At  one 
point,  in  his  early  teens,  Buddy's  parents 
decided  he  needed  professional  teaching. 
Buddy  took  three  lessons,  decided  the 
teacher  didn't  know  half  as  much  about 
the  instrument  as  his  father  did,  and  went 
back  home  to  the  family  music  sessions 
and  daily  practice. 

No  one  else  in  the  family  has  threatened 
competition  thus  far  .  .  .  although  four- 
year-old  Gloria  has  been  able  to  pick  out 
two  or  three  quite  respectable  melodies  on 
the  piano. 

Faye  has  quite  definitely  decided  not  to 
compete.  She  is  happy  to  be  able  to  help 
Buddy  with  his  career  .  .  .  knowing  that 
his  future  will  be  linked  with  hers.  She  is 
becoming  almost  a  member  of  the  family 
already,  although  they  do  not  plan  to 
marry  until  August,  1957. 

"Buddy  will  be  of  age  then,"  she  says, 
"and  can  use  the  money  now  being  de- 
posited in  a  trust  fund.  And  we  can  start 
out  in  our  own  home  .  .  ." 

"It  will  be  a  modern,  low-slung  ranch- 
type  house,"  Buddy  chimes  in,  "with  a 
special  room  for  my  musical  equipment, 
the  recorder,  the  echo  chamber  .  .  .  the 
works." 

Buddy  hopes  to  make  records  on  his  own 
before  too  long.  He  already  has  performed 
as  vocalist  and  as  guitarist  on  several 
Welk  discs,  notably  "The  Rock  and  Roll 
Ruby,"  which  has  the  teen-age  set  jump- 
ing. And  he  will  be  spotlighted  on  Law- 
rence Welk's  new  teen-age  show  which 
will  take  to  the  air  early  next  October. 

"Maybe,"  Faye  says  wryly,  but  with  a 
smile,  "with  all  the  work  you  have  ahead 
of  you,  you  won't  even  have  time  to  get 
married." 

But,  as  Buddy's  serious  gaze  tells  her  in 
reply,  this  is  something  she  needn't  worry 
her  pretty  head  about.  Of  all  the  plans 
he  made  in  that  distant,  almost  forgotten 
past  of  a  little  over  a  year  ago,  this  was 
the  most  important.  When  the  organ  strikes 
up  the  wedding  march,  come  August  a 
year  from  now,  Buddy  will  be  waiting 
there  in  person  as  steadfastly  as  he  has 
waited  in  his  dreams. 


I'm  Glad  I  Waited 


(Continued  from  page  46) 
assume  marital  responsibilities  and  make 
the  right  girl  a  good  husband.  He  even 
went  so  far  as  to  list  some  of  the  qualities 
he  was  looking  for  in  a  future  mate  .  .  . 
qualities  such  as  a  sense  of  humor,  a  tol- 
erance for  herself  as  well  as  others,  a  de- 
votion to  music,  and  at  least  a  reasonable 
ability  to  carry  a  tune.  He  was  not  looking 
for  a  girl  with  stardust  in  her  eyes,  and 
Hal  never  did  list  any  physical  attributes 
in  the  "must"  list  .  .  .  tall,  short,  blonde, 
redhead  and  the  like.  Such  things  were 
unimportant,  but  he  did  think  chances 
were  that  the  future  Mrs.  March  would  be 
pretty  .  .  .  certainly  well-groomed  and  at- 
tractively dressed. 

No  one  could  be  with  Candy  and  Hal 
March  for  even  sixty  seconds  without 
realizing  that  most  of  these  "musts"  were 
"naturals"  to  the  bride  of  less  than  seven 
months.  In  the  most  casual  attire  .  .  . 
flats,  pink  slim  pants  and  a  white  man- 
tailored  shirt  with  sleeves  rolled  above 
the  elbow  .  .  .  and  with  just  the  barest 
amount  of  make-up  artfully  applied  .  .  . 
Candy  March  is  a  dream.  Add  to  this  her 
quiet  charm  and  natural  hospitality,  and 
you  wonder  what  else  a  girl  could  possibly 


need — or  a  man  wish  for.  To  make  the  pic- 
ture complete,  there  is  Hal's  obvious  pride 
in  his  bride.  "Isn't  she  lovely?"  he's  apt 
to  whisper.  And,  even  though  there's  a 
faint  question  mark  for  the  sake  of  pro- 
priety, you  know  it's  simply  a  statement  of 
fact.  Hal's  eye  for  beauty  stood  him  in 
good  stead. 

Ask  Hal  if  Candy  has  stood  up  to  all 
his  previously  publicized  "requirements," 
and  the  reply  comes  quickly:  "Every- 
thing .  .  ."  but  then  this  tapers  off  into: 
"Well,  that  is  except  for  one  thing  .  .  ." 
Here  a  slight  grin  starts  its  ear-to-ear 
span.  "I  know,"  laughs  Candy,  "I  can't 
sing.  Can't  even  hum!  And  I  think  it's  very 
ungallant  of  you  to  suggest  that  I  take 
singing  lessons  with  you  to  see  if  some- 
thing can't  be  done — at  least  with  my 
hum!"  The  mock  reprimand  over  what  is 
obviously  a  family  joke  is  just  the  thing 
Hal  has  been  waiting  for.  After  bursting 
into  a  satisfied  roar,  he  leans  over  and  pats 
his  wife's  knee.  "But  it  is  true,"  he  says 
soothingly,  "that  you  love  music  .  .  .  even 
if  you  can't  hum.  You  might  say  your 
dowry  to  me  was  your  record  collection." 

All  of  which  seemed  to  take  care  of  the 
music,  humor  and  tolerance  qualifications. 


Looking  at  this  attractive  couple,  comfort- 
ably exchanging  quips  with  each  other  as 
they  relaxed  in  their  most  attractive  New 
York  apartment,  it's  hard  to  believe  they 
have  just  been  married  since  February 
18  of  this  year.  There  is  an  ease  ...  -  an 
understanding  .  .  .  between  the  two  that 
one  doesn't  expect  to  find  with  newlyweds. 

In  an  effort  to  explain  this  phenomenon, 
Hal  looks  a  little  mystified  as  he  admits, 
"I  suppose  in  a  way  you  might  say  I'm  sur- 
prised, too.  People  always  talk  of  the 
adjustments  that  are  necessary  to  assure 
a  smooth  marriage.  Well,  frankly,  I'm  still 
waiting  for  said  adjustments.  What  are 
they  supposed  to  be?  I  remember  once, 
when  we  had  been  married  about  four 
months,  I  thought  the  time  had  finally  come. 
Late  one  afternoon,  I  found  I  was  expected 
to  join  some  business  associates  at  din- 
ner. Knowing  that  dinner  was  waiting  for 
me  at  home — in  fact  was  probably  at  that 
very  moment  being  kept  warm  for  my 
arrival — it  was  with  some  trepidation  I 
phoned  Candy  to  say  I  hoped  she  wouldn't 
be  too  upset  if  I  didn't  come  home  for 
dinner.  Then  I  sat  back  and  waited.  To 
my  utter  amazement,  not  only  was  there 
no  explosion  .  .  .  there  wasn't  even  a 
whimper.  If  it  had  to  be,  it  had  to  be, 
and  she'd  see  me  when  I  got  home.  Now 
I  think  that's  really  amazing.  I  wonder 
how  many  husbands  are  that  lucky?" 

At  this  point,  Candy  joins  in  to  explain 
something  that  a  woman  is  more  apt  to 
consider  important:  "Since  we've  been 
married,  we've  never  had  an  argument. 
That  doesn't  mean  we  never  have  argued. 
We  have.  But  all  our  disagreements  took 
place  .  .  .  and  were  cleared  up  .  .  .  before 
we  were  married.  Since  February  18, 
there's  been  no  necessity  for  disagree- 
ments or  arguments.  Whatever  differences 
we  may  have  had  were  settled  before  we 
took  the  big  step.  For  instance — "(here 
Candy's  variety  of  grin  makes  an  unex- 
pected appearance)" — the  question  of 
house  furnishings." 

"Oh  yes,  that!"  laughs  Hal.  "You  know," 
he  continues,  "it's  a  little  eerie,  the  way 
we  have  the  same  likes  and  dislikes  in  just 
about  everything.  Our  one  major  point  of 
variance  turned  out  to  be  decorating.  I'm 
very  fond  of  a  modified  version  of  modern, 
while  Candy  is  devoted  to  antiques.  In 
fact,  she  has  a  whole  houseful  of  them  out 
on  the  West  Coast,  and  a  closetful  right 
here  in  the  apartment  .  .  .  which  I  believe 
she  plans  to  hold  over  my  head  if  I  start 
stepping  out  of  line  at  any  time.  But,  all 
joking  aside,  Candy  was  a  real  good  sport 
in  giving  up  her  antiques  and  entering  into 
the  spirit  of  what  might  be  called  'March 
modern.'  Her  taste  is  so  impeccable  I  find 
myself  relying  completely  on  her  good 
judgment. 

"Take  the  bedroom,  as  an  example.  The 
bed,  as  I  had  designed  it  in  my  bachelor 
days,  had  a  straight- across  functional — but 
strictly  masculine — headboard.  With  the 
assistance  of  a  decorator,  Candy  has  de- 
signed a  somewhat  more  traditional  head- 
board, as  well  as  a  set  of  bedside  tables. 

For  the  information  of  those  who  missed 
Ed  Murrow's  Person  To  Person  visit  with 
the  Marches  last  April,  Candy  and  Hal 
have  a  lovely  six-room  apartment  on  up-<- 
per  Fifth  Avenue  across  from  New  York's 
Central  Park.  The  apartment  consists  of 
three  bedrooms  and  baths,  a  dining  area, 
kitchen,  and  a  forty-by-twenty-foot  living 
room.  Most  of  the  furnishings  were  trans- 
ported from  Hal's  Hollywood  home,  and 
much  of  this  was  designed  by  its  owner. 
The  over-all  appearance  of  the  living 
room  is  that  of  modern-traditional — or 
traditional-modern,  depending  on  how  you, 
personally,  approach  it.  "When  I  designed 
the  furniture  some  six  years  ago,"  ex- 
plains its  owner,  "it  was  somewhat  out  of 
desperation.  I  couldn't  find  anything  in  the 


ready-made  line  that  I  really  liked.  The 
modern  was  too  modern  and  the  traditional 
too  traditional.  So  I  blended  elements  of 
both  schools  .   .  .  and  this  is  it." 

With  the  combined  efforts  and  imagina- 
tions of  Candy  and  Hal,  they  have  man- 
aged to  win  the  battle  of  a  forty-foot 
living  room  by  means  of  a  cherry  desk  and 
baby  grand  piano  placed  strategically 
three  quarters  of  the  way  down  the  room 
.  .  .  thus  serving  as  unsuspecting  room 
dividers.  The  rear  of  the  room  now  acts 
as  a  large  foyer  while  the  front  of  the 
room  is  the  "living"  part.  Along  one  wall 
is  Hal's  masterpiece — a  long  sectional  series 
of  bookcases  and  cabinets.  The  cabinets 
house  the  TV  and  hi-fi,  while  the  book- 
cases accommodate,  not  only  reading  mat- 
ter, but  much  of  the  combined  Hal- 
Candy  record  collection.  Directly  across 
the  room  is  an  out-sized,  deep  blue  sofa, 
fronted  by  a  long  coffee  table  (one  of  the 
few  new  pieces  in  the  room)  on  which  are 
kept  fresh,  brilliantly  colored  flowers  and 
a  large  bowl  hospitably  containing  pack- 
ages of  cigarettes  to  satisfy  a  smoker's 
most  discriminating  taste. 

Along  the  third  wall,  which  is  com- 
pletely windowed,  is  a  set  of  five  small 
benches  with  red,  deep  blue  and  beige 
cushions.  Besides  being  decorative,  these 
benches  have  a  great  utility  value  for  the 
Marches,  who  like  to  entertain  at  home. 
Buffet  suppers  find  the  cushions  on  the 
floor  and  the  benches  used  as  tables. 

Perhaps  one  of  the  most  unusual  as- 
pects of  the  living-room-foyer  and  dining 
room  (which  is,  in  reality,  a  continua- 
tion of  the  foyer  at  right  angles  to  the 
living  room)  is  the  wall  covering  ...  a 
silver-base  grass  cloth  with  deep  to  light 
blue  woven  stripes.  The  soft  silver  high- 
lights of  the  walls  have  a  startling  way  of 
lifting  and  complementing  the  predomi- 
nating colors  of  beige  and  blue,  and  never 
fail  to  bring  forth  rapt  oh's  and  ah's,  what- 
is-it    and    where-did-you-get-it? 

As  for  Hal,  he's  inclined  to  place  most  of 
his  pride  in  an  oil  painting  displayed 
prominently  in  the  foyer.  It's  a  picture  of 
a  boxer  executed  by  his  favorite  painter, 
wife  and  companion,  Candy  Toxton  March. 
And,  in  case  you  walked  past  it  too  fast, 
the  small  still  life  just  inside  the  front 
door   carries   the  same   signature. 

It's  obvious  this  is  a  home  that  is  meant 
to  be  enjoyed  and  lived  in.  "You  could 
say,"  Hal  explains,  with  an  unusually  seri- 
ous expression  on  his  face,  "that  this  is  the 
reason  I  hesitated  about  doing  the  Broad- 
way show  I  was  scheduled  to  appear  in. 
As  you  might  guess,  it's  a  little  hard  for 
an  actor  to  turn  down  a  Broadway  show. 
But  one  day,  after  I  had  accepted  the  role, 
I  suddenly  awoke  to  the  realization  of 
what  I  was  doing.  I  was  literally  giving  up 
all  the  things  I  had  waited  thirty-five  years 
to  acquire  ...  a  wife  I  love  very  much,  a 
home,  a  family.  A  way  of  life. 

"A  career's  all  well  and  good  ...  in 
fact,  a  necessity.  And  I  enjoy  it.  But  num- 
ber one  in  my  life  is  my  marriage.  By  be- 
ing in  a  Broadway  show,  in  addition  to 
my  regular  television  appearances,  I  would 
be  away  from  home  too  many  nights  a 
week  .  .  .  away  from  Candy  and  her  two 
children,  whom  I'm  whacky  about."  (Joan 
Carter  has  already  told  the  appealing  story, 
in  last  May's  TV  Radio  Mirror,  of  Hal's 
devotion  to  little  Stephen  and  Melissa, 
Candy's  son  and  daughter  by  her  former 
marriage  to  singer  Mel  Torme.) 

"No,"  Hal  sighs  contentedly.  "Such  a 
routine  simply  adds  up  to  never  being 
where  or  with  whom  I  really  want  to  be. 
...  I  waited  too  long  for  marriage  and 
home  life,  to  take  a  chance  on  missing 
even  one  unnecessary  split  second  of  it. 
You  can  have  your  bachelorhood  and  high- 
powered  careers.  I've  taken  Candy  .  .  . 
and  I'm  glad  I  waited." 


Special  New  Tablet 

Relieves  Monthly  Cramps 

for  3  out  of  4  in  Tests! 


Amazing  new  formula  developed 

especially  for  female  distress  gives 

greater  relief  than  aspirin! 

If  you  dread  those  "difficult  days"  each 
month,  listen!  Science  has  developed  a 
special  new  tablet  to  relieve  pain,  cramps, 
and  tense  feelings  of  monthly  periods! 
It  contains  a  unique  combination  of  medi- 
cines— including  blood-building  iron. 
Thus  offers  more  relief  than  plain  aspirin! 

In  doctors'  tests  painful  distress  was 
relieved  for  3  out  of  4  women!  Many 
didn't  suffer  even  on  the  first  day!  They 
also  escaped  much  of  the  jitters  and  un- 
happy tension  so  common  as  you  ap- 
proach that  trying  time  of  month. 

So  don't  suffer  needlessly.  Ask  for 
"Lydia  Pinkham  Tablets"  at  drug  stores. 
No  prescription  needed.  See  if  they  don't 
help  you  feel  worlds  better — both  before 
and  during  your  period! 


WO 

^Your 
Child's 
Photo 


HUNDREDS  OF  DOLLARS  PAID.. 

each  month  by  advertisers  for  boys  &  girls 
pictures  (6  mo.  to  18  yrs.)  for  TV,  Calendar  & 
Magazine  ads.  Your  child  has  same  opportu- 
nity. Send  ONE  111  small  photo  for  approval. 
Print  childs  and  mothers  name  and  address 
back.  Returned  in  20  days  with  report. 
MO  OBLIGATION. 

LLYWOOD    SPOTLITE,    Dept.    AJ  I 
1611    No.    La    Brea.    Hollywood.    Calif.  I 


Corn  Pain  Stopped 
Fast 


Out  Come 
Corns  in 
a  Hurry! 

Dr.  Scholl's  Zino-pads  not  only  give  fast  nerve-deep 
relief  from  pain,  but  also  remove  corns  one  of  the 
quickest  ways  known  to  medical  science.  Try  them ! 


D-Scholls  lino-pads 


IT'S  GREAT  TO  CLEAR  YOUR  SKIN 

PSORIASIS 

-the  ugly  scaly  skin  trouble 


MAKE  THE  ONE 

SPOT 

TEST. 


U^DERMOIL 


Enjoy  the  thrill  of  a  smooth 
clear  skin!  DERMOIL 
formula  used  by  many  doctors.  Amazing 
results  reported  for  over  22  years!  No 
matter  how  long  you  have  suffered,  write 
for  Free  Book  on  Psoriasis  with  "Before 
and  After"   photos  of  results,  and 
SEND  10c  for  generous  trial  bottle. 
Satisfaction  in  2  weeks  or  money 
back.  Sold  by  all  Druggists. 

LAKE    LABORATORIES,   Dept.  2404 

Box  3925Strathmoor  Station,  Detroit  27, Mieb. 


Suu/fOfjvr 
TRIAL 
.    SIZE. 


T 
V 

R 

91 


T 
V 
R 

92 


ASSORTED  in  Silk,  Wool,  Cetfon  &  Rayon  .  All 
SIZES  in  Good  Condition. BUT  NO  IESS  THAN 
»  DRESSES  AT  THIS  BARGAIN  PRICE. 

MONEY  BACK  IF  NOT  SATISFIED 

ST. 00  Deposit  MUST  com*  with  ordor.  You  pay 

pottman  balanco  plus  C.O.D.,  postage  chargot. 

A  TRIAL  ORDER  WILL  CONVINCE  YOU  OF 

OUR  WONDERFUL  BARGAINS 


MAIL  ORDER  MART 
199  Sackett   St.,  Blclyn  31,  N.Y. 


Dcpt. 
TS-10 


Name '. > 

■  ""  • 

I  Address, • 

{  City State J 

|    Enclosed    find   $1.00    Deposit.    I    will   pay   postman   COD  f 

|    balance  PLUS  postage.  | 

I 
• 

i 


ITEM 


SIZE 


PRICE 


MAKE  BIG  MONEY  FAST! 

Send  me  your  name  and  address  today  on  a  postcard.  I  will 
send  you  FREE  information  telling  you  how  to  make  BIG 
MONEY  in  your  spare  time  by  helping  us  take  orders  for 
magazine  subscriptions  in  your  neighborhood.  Send  name 
and  address  to:  Macfadden  Publications,  205  East  42  St.. 
Npw  York  17.  N.  Y.  There  is  no  obligation!  


Dept.  46 


NOW!  Save  Up  to  50% 

on  Nationally  Advertised  Gifts 

Use  this  big,  new  FREE  CATA- 
LOG to  buy  all  kinds  of  gifts 
and  merchandise  for  yourself, 
family,  friends,  neighbors.  Ter- 
rific saving  on  big-name  items. 
Also,  make  money  spare  time 
taking   orders   from   others  I 

EVERGREEN  STUDIOS 

Box  846  CHICAGO  42.  III. 


New  fragrant  hair  pomade  with  lanolin  will  make  gray  hairs 
DISAPPEAR  GRADUALLY  (no  sudden  change).  Because 
change  is  gradual  your  friends  in  a  few  weeks  will  never  re- 
member that  you  ever  had  gray  hair.  Used  like  a  hairdresslng 
Lasting  NATURAL  LOOK  ..  .  will  not  streak  or  rub  off  Good 
for  men  &  women. 


Return  this  ad  with  $1  and  receiv 
a      regular     $2.00    jar     prepaid 
LECHLER.560-T,   Broadwoy,  New  York 


SPECIAL  OFFER! 


JUST 
BRUSH 

IT  ON  J 


LOOSE   FALSE   TEETH 

REL1NED  AND  TIGHTENED  AT  HOME  $1.00 

NEWLY  IMPROVED  DENDEX  RELTNER,  a 
plastic,  builds  up  (refits)  loose  upper  and 
lower  dentures.  Really  makes  them  fit  as 
they  should  without  using  powder.  Easily 
applied.  No  heating  required.  Brush  it  on 
and  wear  your  plates  while  it  sets.  It  ad- 
heres to  the  plates  only  and  makes  a 
comfortable,  smooth  and  durable  surface 
that  can  be  washed  and  scrubbed.  Each, 
application  lasts  for  months.  Not  a  powder 
or  wax.  Contains  no  rubber  or  gum.  Neu- 
tral pink  color.  Sold  on  MONEY -BACK  GUARANTEE.  Not 
Koid  in  stores.  Proved  by  15  years  of  Consumer  use. 
Send     91     p'us    10c    handling    charge    (stamps    or    coin). 

Dendex  Company,  Dept.    77-B 
2024  West  6th  St.,  Los  Angeles  5,  Calif. 

SHEETS,  TOASTERS, 
TOWELS,  MIXERS,etc. 
GIVEN  TO  YOU  FREE! 


if»/.,(>''P" 


Hundreds  of  famous,  na- 
tionally advertised  products 
to  choose  from — furniture, 
rugs,  lamps,  slip  covers,  sil- 
verware, china,  draperies. 
You  get  $50.00  —  $100.00 
and  more  in  merchandise 
just  by  being  Secretary  of  a 
Popular  Club  you  help  your 
friends  form.  It's  easy !  It's 
fun  !  Nothing  to  sell,  noth- 
ing to  buy.  Write  today. 


I   Popular  Club  Plan,  Dept.J919,  Lynbrook.  N.  Y.    | 
J   Send  Big  FREE  276-Page  FULL-COLOR  Catalog   j 


Name.. 
Address.. 


These  Two 


City State.. 


(Continued  from  page  34) 
O'Sullivan,  who  shares  so  much  of  her 
life  but  also  has  some  very  masculine 
ideas  all  his  own.  For  instance,  take  his 
eagerness  to  get  away  from  the  family 
breakfast  table — to  seek  bait-worms  for  his 
fishing!  "Have  you  any  idea  how  difficult 
it  is  to  buy  worms  in  a  city  like  New 
York?"  asks  Jan,  with  that  tolerant 
amusement  any  wife  could  recognize  and 
sympathize  with. 

Actually,  the  O'Sullivans  share  almost 
all  their  enthusiasms — including  fishing. 
These  are  two  people  who  love  the  out- 
doors .  .  -.  who  steal  away  from  their 
respective  acting  jobs,  every  minute  they 
can,  to  go  off  on  such  open-air  expedi- 
tions as  fishing  trips  with  friends  ...  or 
to  hurry  up  to  Jan's  beloved  Morrow 
Farm,  at  Meredith,  New  Hampshire,  where 
they  pitch  into  the  farm  chores  and  love 
every  hard-working  minute  of  every  day 
they're  there. 

These  are  two  very  busy  people  in  the 
city,  too.  Jan,  of  course,  is  Terry  Burton 
every  weekday,  in  The  Second  Mrs. 
Burton,  and  Julie  in  Hilltop  House  as 
well.  She  also  stars  in  many  a  night- 
time television  drama  and  was  recently 
a  featured  member  of  the  summer  stock 
company  on  Robert  Montgomery  Presents. 
Terry  O'Sullivan  is  familiar  to  daytime 
TV  audiences  as  Elliott  Norris  in  The 
Valiant  Lady,  and  to  evening  viewers  of 
such  big  dramatic  productions  as  the 
Montgomery  shows,  The  Big  Story,  Studio 
One  (for  which  he  and  Jan  co-starred  in 
a  play  last  winter).  Yet  acting  is  only 
one  important  part  of  two  active  lives 
which  are  caught  up  with  many  other 
challenging  occupations  aside  from  their 
professional  careers. 

There  is  the  family  life  they  lead,  the 
good  life  they  have  together  in  their 
five-room  New  York  apartment.  The  life 
they  lead  at  the  farm  ...  on  summer 
weekends  and  over  the  long  holidays  and 
whenever  they  can  get  away  during  the 
winter  .  .  .  the  farm  home  which  is  close 
to  that  of  Jan's  parents,  Walter  and  Ethel 
Miner,  and  not  too  far  from  her  three 
married  brothers  and  their  sons  and 
daughters. 

And,  every  summer,  Terry's  three 
daughters  have  been  coming  from  Cali- 
fornia to  visit,  after  school  is  out.  But, 
this  year,  his  eldest — eighteen-year-old 
Colleen — was  graduated  from  high  school 
and  promptly  became  engaged  to  Jim 
Dawson,  a  boy  she  has  been  dating  all 
through  high  school.  So  .  .  .  seventeen- 
year-old  Kathleen  and  Molly,  who  is 
almost  fourteen,  came  East  without  her. 
Terry  flew  to  California  for  Colleen's 
engagement  party,  and  the  wedding  some- 
time in  December  will,  of  course,  be  a 
gala  family  occasion. 

Meanwhile,  in  this  same  sunny  season, 
Terry  O'Sullivan's  plans  have  embraced 
appearances  in  summer  stock,  including 
performances  in  the  hit  play,  "Tea  and 
Sympathy." 

"John  Newland,  actor  and  TV  director, 
is  really  responsible  for  my  doing  'charac- 
ter work'  on  TV,"  says  Jan.  "When  John 
and  I  worked  together  on  some  of  the 
Montgomery  shows,  he  suggested  that  I 
would  love  being  a  character  woman,  and 
I  do.  It  has  given  me  the  chance  to  be  all 
sorts  of  people — all  different,  all  interesting, 
all  exciting  to  play.  It's  like  when  you  were 
a  kid  and  you  dressed  up  in  the  clothes 
you  found  in  the  old  trunks  and  boxes, 
or  in  your  mother's  closet,  and  pretended 
to  be  the  women  you  knew  only  in  your 
imagination.  Well,  I  have  been  like  that 
little  girl  this  year,  putting  on  the  clothes 
and  mannerisms  and  the  speech  of  these 


others  and  pretending  I  am  these  different 
women.  It  has  been  rewarding  to  do  this. 

"The  part  of  Terry  Burton,  in  The 
Second  Mrs.  Burton,  is  a  rewarding  one, 
of  course,  all  year  'round.  The  interesting 
thing  to  me  about  this  woman,  and  about 
this  story,  is  the  quiet  humor  that  un- 
derlies the  drama.  It's  like  life,  which 
always  has  some  note  of  humor  just  be- 
low the  surface  of  almost  any  set  of 
situations.  Hector  Chevigny,  writer  of  The 
Second  Mrs.  Burton,  has  been  blind  for 
twelve  years  but  has  retained  every  bit 
of  that  sense  of  participation  in  all  that 
makes  life  full  and  rich  and  often  a  little 
amusing.  I  feel  very  close  to  him  through 
his  writing,  besides  admiring  him  as  a 
fine  individual,  who  has  managed  to  make 
an  outstanding  success  even  though  he  has 
lost  his  sight. 

"In  a  way,  Terry  Burton  is  all  women 
everywhere.  She  has  always  tried  very 
hard  to  work  with  the  circumstances 
which  face  her.  She  worked  her  way  out 
of  some  difficult  situations  in  her  girl- 
hood, she  made  a  place  for  herself  in  the 
world,  and  then  she  met  Stan  Burton  and 
fell  in  love  with  him.  She  knows  Stan 
has  a  great  potential  for  happiness  and 
success,  and  she  realizes  he  has  been  too 
long  spoiled  by  an  indulgent  mother,  but 
she  tries  hard  to  understand  them  both. 
Stan  comes  from  a  family  which  is  well- 
known  and  well-placed  in  the  town  where 
they  live,  and  Terry  came  as  a  stranger 
into  this  tight  little  family  group,  with  all 
its  background  and  traditions  of  small- 
town life. 

"There  is  this  so-called  'mother-in-law 
problem'  to  be  faced — and  I  say  'so-called' 
because  in  my  own  life  there  has  never 
been  any  such  difficulty.  My  mother-in- 
law  is  simply  wonderful,  and  I  know  my 
own  Terry — O'Sullivan,  that  is — feels  the 
same  way  about  my  mother.  But  we  both 
recognize  that  the  problem  does  exist  for 
some  people,  as  it  does  for  Terry  Burton, 
try  as  she  will  to  see  things  through  the 
eyes  of  her  husband's  mother.  I  admire  her 
for  the  wisdom  with  which  she  handles 
the  situations  which  constantly  arise,  and 
for  the  effort  she  makes  to  prove  to  her 
mother-in-law  that-  she  is  not  taking 
Stan  away  from  her,  but  only  trying  to 
help  him  stand  on  his  own  two  feet  and 
live  his  own  life." 

There  is  such  admiration  in  Jan's  heart 
for  Ethel  Owen,  the  fine  actress  who  plays 
her  mother-in-law  in  the  show,  that  she 
sometimes  finds  it  a  little  difficult  to  keep 
that  admiration  from  creeping  into  some 
of  their  scenes  together  when  she  must 
be  firm  and  even  a  little  severe.  "The  fact 
that  there  is  this  note  of  humor  in  our 
story,  and  that  all  the  players  approach 
it  in  that  spirit,  makes  everything  easier," 
Jan  smiles.  "Ethel  approaches  her  scenes 
with  this  little  undertone  of  humor  .  .  . 
as  do  Dwight  Weist  (who  is  my  husband 
Stan  Burton),  Alice  Frost  (who  is  my 
sister-in-law  Marcia),  and  Larry  Haines 
(who  plays  the  part  of  Marcia's  husband, 
Lew  Archer)." 

To  show  just  how  real  the  listeners  to 
The  Second  Mrs.  Burton  find  this  drama, 
Jan  points  to  something  that  happened  a 
few  months  ago.  The  Archers,  the  couple 
played  by  Alice  Frost  and  Larry  Haines, 
celebrated  their  first  wedding  anniversary, 
and  a  fan  sent  a  huge  basket  of  lovely 
flowers,  with  an  appropriate  anniversary 
card.  "We  were  all  simply  thrilled,"  says 
Jan,  "that  we  had  made  the  story  as  real 
as — well,  as  it  actually  is — a  story  filled 
with  the  kind  of  incidents  that  could 
happen  to  almost  any  of  us  in  any  part 
of  the  country." 

Apart  from  this  life  of  work,  this  daily 


out-pouring  of  themselves  into  the  rich 
and  varied  parts  they  play,  Jan  and  Terry 
have  these  other  lives  they  lead,  notably 
that  life  which  is  bounded  by  the  farm 
and  its  activities.  "At  the  farm  we  renew 
ourselves,"  Terry  had  said  (just  before  he 
took  off  on  his  worm-hunt).  "Have  Jan 
tell  you  how  we  have  been  working  out 
on  our  fifty-five  acres,  how  we  have  had 
the  girls  driving  the  tractor  and  picking 
fruit  and  learning  more  every  summer 
about  being  good  farmers.  Have  Jan  tell 
you  about  the  extra  property  we  added 
this  year,  and  how  that  happened." 

"That  was  luck,  in  a  way.  I  think  it 
was  guidance,  too,"  Jan  says  seriously, 
speaking  about  the  new  property.  "This 
was  land  right  next  to  ours,  next  to  our 
right-of-way  down  to  the  lake  where  we 
spend  so  much  of  our  time,  boating  and 
swimming  and  fishing.  The  woman  who 
owned  the  property  put  it  up  for  sale 
and,  at  first,  we  thought  of  it  only  as  a 
threat  to  our  cherished  privacy.  Then,  the 
more  we  talked,  the  more  it  seemed  right 
for  us  to  buy  the  property  ourselves.  It 
seemed  like  a  bit  of  an  undertaking — until 
we  figured  out  we  could  rent  the  cottage 
over  the  summers  and,  later  on,  perhaps, 
put  in  adequate  heating  to  rent  it  all 
year  round.  We  figured  the  rental  would 
go  a  long  way  toward  paying  our  taxes 
and  insurance,  and  we  could  choose  con- 
genial people  as  tenants. 

"We  even  had  a  name  all  ready-made 
for  the  cottage.  What  else  could  it  be 
except  'Rite-O'-Way'?  So  now — like  many 
things  that  at  first  seem  a  little  menacing 
— this  whole  thing  has  turned  into  a  big 
blessing  for  everyone  concerned.  So  many 
things  in  life  do,  if  you  just  let  them." 

The  cottage,  and  the  new  driveway,  and 
the  boat  dock.  .  .  and  a  porch  glassed  in 
with  old  storm  windows  .  .  .  and  a  float 
for  the  lake  made  from  oil  drums  .  .  . 
are  only  a  few  of  Terry's  summer  chores. 
In  fact,  he  is  known  at  the  lake  as  Terry 
"Project"  O'Sullivan,  because  he  always 
has  so  many  projects  going  at  any  given 
moment.  "When  I  don't  want  to  be 
drawn  into  something  my  husband  has 
started — at  least  not  at  first,"  says  Jan, 
"I  keep  at  a  safe  distance  and  wave  gaily 
to  him,  pretending  to  be  very  busy  with 
other  things.  When  I  do  get  drawn  in,  it's 
usually  to  hand  him  tools  and  run  back 
and  forth  to  the  house  for  things  he  needs. 

"Terry  is  an  excellent  executive,"  Mrs. 
O'Sullivan  says  proudly,  "and  a  man  who 
inspires  everyone  to  get  to  work  and  to 
accomplish  something  .  .  .  and  heaven  help 
you  if  you  go  near  where  he  is  working 
without  some  heavy  gloves,  heavy  shoes, 
work  clothes,  and  a  stout  heart!  He  will 
say,  quite  innocently,  'Would  you  mind 
just  holding  this  for  a  moment  while  I 
fix  that?'  .  .  .  and,  suddenly  there  you  are 
pressed  into  service  and  having  to  admit 
that  you  like  it!" 

Not  all  the  projects  are  directed  to 
life  on  the  farm  except  in  summer.  A  trip 
to  Jamaica,  British  West  Indies,  inspired 
Terry  to  design  some  bureaus  for  the 
New  York  apartment,  in  the  bright  tur- 
quoise blue  they  had  seen  in  Jamaica. 
At  first,  Jan  was  appalled  at  such  an 
ambitious  piece  of  carpentry  as  Terry 
had  in  mind,  visualizing  drawers  that 
would  stick  and  give  her  no  end  of 
trouble.  But,  before  starting  the  twin 
chests,  Terry  went  to  work  on  some  coffee 
tables,  which  turned  out  to  be  little 
masterpieces — one  of  old  beams  and  pine 
boards  and  brass  rods,  with  the  top  burned 
with  a  torch  to  a  beautiful,  dark  smokey 
color — and  Jan's  fears  about  his  skill 
vanished.  Together,  they  have  gold-leafed 
the  top  of  a  large,  round  coffee  table  they 
have  in  the  New  York  apartment,  and  a 
lovely  Sheraton  glass  cabinet  in  the  apart- 
ment dining  room. 


It  is  very  nice  indeed,  as  is  the  whole 
color  scheme  of  the  apartment,  all  of  it  in 
coral  and  taupe  and  white,  with  some 
black  lacquered  pieces,  and  touches  of 
gold  and  green.  The  dining  room  walls 
being  coral,  the  furniture  is  wrought  iron 
painted  white.  The  living-room  walls  are 
white,  but  there  are  coral  notes  in  twin 
couches,  set  off  by  a  black  rug,  taupe 
for  the  long  sofa,  some  greens  in  the 
chairs,  gold  for  the  lamp  shades,  and 
a  handsomely  antiqued  and  decorated 
mirrored  chest. 

Terry's  taste  in  furnishings  runs  to 
simplicity,  almost  to  the  point  of  stark - 
ness.  Jan  likes  the  cheerful  clutter  of 
keepsakes.  They  compromise,  by  keeping 
the  New  York  apartment  quite  hand- 
somely simple  and  the  farmhouse  cheer- 
fully filled  with  all  the  things  Jan  can't 
quite  bear  to  put  up  in  the  attic. 

According  to  Jan,  Terry  is  the  better 
cook.  "He  really  is.  I  do  a  lot  of  the 
cooking  at  the  farm,  of  course,  and  I  am 
really  good  as  a  dish-washer  and  cleaner- 
upper — in  fact,  I  don't  mind  any  of  the 
household  chores.  I  rather  like  them. 
But  when  we  want  to  have  an  extra- 
special  meal  for  friends  I  always  hope 
Terry  will  have  the  time  to  play  chef. 
One  thing  I  do,  and  that  is  to  get  up 
early  and  get  his  breakfast.  No  small 
feat,  because  he's  up,  city  or  country, 
around  6: 30!" 

The  O'Sullivans  may  just  happen  to 
turn  into  a  writing  team,  in  addition  to 
their  other  interests.  Terry  has  some  ideas 
for  scripts.  Jan  would  like  to  help  on 
some,  too,  if  only  to  widen  her  knowledge 
of  everything  that  goes  into  the  work  she 
loves.  She  began  her  theatrical  career  as 
a  student  of  stage  design,  and  now  feels 
that  writing  would  help  round  out  her 
knowledge  of  her  craft. 

"What  I  really  want,  as  a  woman  and 
as  an  actress,"  Jan  observes,  "are  the 
same  things  all  women  want.  I  want  to 
grow  a  little  every  day.  I  want  to  go  as 
far  as  my  understanding  of  life  will  take 
me.  I  want  to  reach  certain  goals,  to  go 
on  working  toward  certain  ideals,  as 
every  woman  does.  None  of  us  can  figure 
out  the  exact  details,  can  tell  what  each 
step  of  the  way  will  be  like.  This  isn't 
within  the  scope  of  any  human  person. 
We  do  know,  however,  the  kind  of  atmos- 
phere we  want  to  create  in  our  homes, 
the  peace  and  harmony  and  tranquillity 
with  which  we  would  like  to  surround  our 
families  and  our  work,  whatever  that 
work  is,  whether  at  home  or  outside  the 
family  circle. 

"There  are  days  when  the  most  in- 
significant things  seem  to  swell  to  huge 
proportions,"  she  admits  with  a  smile, 
"days  when  we  feel  our  own  problems 
must  be  the  hardest  to  solve,  days  when 
petty  irritations  pile  up  until  they  seem  to 
smother  us.  Days  when  we  are  apt  to 
forget  that  giving  way  to  depression  is 
really  a  form  of  self-pity  and  self-in- 
dulgence— and  what  a  temptation  that  is! 
And  there  are  days  when  any  change 
that  comes  into  our  lives,  no  matter  how 
small,  seems  more  than  we  can  bear. 

"I  am  trying  to  learn  to  welcome  every 
change,  every  challenge  to  face  a  new 
situation  squarely.  The  women  I  am  on 
radio  and  television  must  do  these  things. 
It's  what  makes  them  interesting,  what 
makes  them  real  and  worth  knowing. 
Surely,  this  is  what  all  of  us  would  most 
like  to  be." 

Real  and  worth  knowing.  It's  a  phrase 
which  perfectly  describes  Jan  Miner,  as 
well  as  those  two  very  important  people  in 
her  life  .  .  .  the  lovable  Terry  who  is 
The  Second  Mrs.  Burton  .  .  .  and  the 
beloved  Terry  who  is  head  of  the 
O'Sullivan  household. 


SPECIAL  PRESEASON  BARGAIN! 

{Limited  Offer  may  be  withdrawn  at  any  time) 

PERSONALIZED  $<" 

XMAS  CARDS 


FREE! 

Your  name 
printed  on 
each  card 


A  Guaranteed  $2.50  Value 

You  are  unconditionally 
guaranteed  aSl. 50 saving 
If  you  order  before  offer 
expires 


These  same  gorgeous 
full-color,  deluxe,  em- 
bossed 4-fold  cards  with 
matching  envelopes  are 
featured  in  stores  at  10c 
each  without  personal-) 
■zed  name  imprint. 


To  induce  you 
to  order  NOW . . . 

instead  of  waiting  for  our  busy  peak 
season,  we  offer  you  an  amazing  bonus 
.  .  .  Accept  our  amazing  pre-season 
bargain  ...  a  guaranteed  $2.50  value 
for  only  $1  prepaid  .  .  .  PLUS 
Your  Name  Imprinted  Free  on  Every  Card  I 
Check  These  Features: 

Order  now — eliminate  future  worry  about 

your  1956  Xmas  cards. 

No  extra  costs — low  price  even  includes 

postage. 

Finest  quality — the  kind  of  cards  you  will 

be  proud  to  send. 


MONEY-BACK  GUARANTEE 

If  you  don't  agree  this  Is  the  greatest 
Christmas  Card  Bargain  ever — you  keep 
10  for  ordering,  return  balance  for  full 
$1.00  refund. 


Sorry,  noC.O.D.'s  .  .  .  (since  orders  are  printed  to  order) 
Send  full  name  you  want  Imprinted  FREE  along 
with  $1.00  for  each  set  of  25  cards  and  envelopes. 

PERSONALIZED  CARD  CO..  Dept.TS  W-9 
31  West  47th  St..  New  York  36.  N.Y. 


ANY  PHOTO  ENLARGED 


67 


Size  8  x  10  Inches 

on  DOUBLE-WEIGHT  Paper 

Same  price  for  full  length  or  bust 
form,  groups,  landscapes,  pet  ani- 
mals, etc.,  or  enlargements  of  any 
part  of  a  group  picture.  Original  is 
returned  with  your  enlargement. 

Send  No  Money  3  for  $] 

Just  mail  photo,  negative  or  snap- 
shot (any  size)  and  receive  your  enlargement, 
guaranteed  fadeless, on  beautiful  double-weight 
portrait  quality  paper.  Pay  postman  67c  plus 
postage— or  send  69c  with  order  and  we  pay  post- 
age. Take  advantage  of  this  amazing  offer.  Send  your  photos  today. 

Professional  Art  Studios,  544  S.  Main,  Dept.  36-M,  Princeton,  Illinois 

.  Hair 

£  OFFFace 

Lips. ..Arms. ..Legs 

Now  Happy!  After  trying  many  things,  I  de- 
veloped a  simple,  inexpensive  method  to  remove 
unsightly  hair.  Its  regular  use  helps  thousands 
retain  admiration,  love,  happiness.  My  FREE  book  ex- 
plains method,  proves  success.  Mailed  in  plain  enve- 
lope. Also  trial  OFFER.  Write  Annette  Lanzette. 
P.O.  Box 4040,  Mdse.  Mart.  Dept.  2S5. Chicago 54,  111. 
Celebrating  35  Years  in  Business 

TENSE  NERVOUS 
HEADACHES 

STRONGER  Yet  SAFER 

ANACIH 

Won't  Upset  The  Stomach 

Anacin®  not  only  gives  stronger,  faster 
relief  from  pain  of  headache,  but  is  also 
safer.  Won't  upset  the  stomach  and  has 
no  bad  effects.  You  see,  Anacin  is  like  a 
doctor's  prescription. That  is,  Anacin  con- 
tains not  just  one  but  a  combination  of 
medically  proven,  active  ingredients.  Sci- 
entific research  has  proved  no  single  drug 
can  give  such  strong  yet  such  safe  relief 
as  Anacin.  Buy  Anacin  Tablets  today  1 


T 

V 
R 

93 


(Continued  from  page  66) 
of  it.  "I  enjoyed  it,"  Tirrell  says  now, 
looking  back  at  that  first  acting  experience 
of  two  long  years  ago.  "It  was  interest- 
ing. I  decided  that  acting  was  definitely 
what  I  wanted  to  do." 

Since  then,  there  has  been  a  long  list  of 
dramatic  roles.  At  least  four  Studio  One 
appearances,  including  one  last  spring 
with  Red  Buttons  in  "The  Tale  of  St. 
Emergency."  Five  times  on  the  Robert 
Montgomery  show.  On  Star  Stage,  Lux 
Theater,  Philco,  Danger,  The  Perry  Corao 
Show.  In  radio,  on  Juvenile  Jury  and 
others.  In  commercials,  most  recently 
as  the  "My-T-Fine  Girl,"  singer  of  the 
commercials  in  a  strong  and  sweet  voice. 

Her  biggest  and  most  exciting  job,  of 
course,  is  playing  Carol,  in  the  daily  dra- 
matic serial  called  Love  Of  Life.  Carol  is 
the  little  girl  who  was  mute  and  sad  and 
neglected  when  Vanessa  and  Paul  Raven 
took  her  into  their  home  .  .  .  and,  al- 
though she  has  now  recovered  her  speech, 
Carol  is  still  the  storm  center  of  many 
adult  intrigues,  as  the  Ravens  fight  to 
keep  her  and  to  adopt  her  as  their  own. 

"I  never  had  to  push  either  of  the  chil- 
dren, and  I  certainly  never  intend  to," 
their  mother  said.  "As  long  as  Chris  and 
Tirrell  are  happy  in  what  they're  doing, 
and  remain  normal  children,  their  father 
(an  electronics  engineer)  and  I  are  happy. 
I  am  content  to  go  back  and  forth  to  the 
studios  with  them,  to  wait  around  on  sets, 
and  to  stay  in  the  background  and  never 
interfere.  Like  most  mothers,  the  im- 
portant thing  to  me  is  making  my  family 
happy." 

"My  daddy  is  proud  of  me,  and  I  am 
proud  of  him,"  Tirrell  added.  "He  can  do 
anything.  He  made  me  a  doghouse  for 
Rusty,  and  it  even  has  a  porch.  Last 
Christmas,  he  made  me  a  rope  ladder.  He 
can  do  all  sorts  of  things.  He  is  pleased 
with  what  Chris  and  I  are  doing,  and  we 
think  he  is  wonderful." 

1  he  way  Chris  became  an  actor,  the 
first  in  the  family,  is  quite  a  story,  too. 
If  the  Barberys  hadn't  had  to  make  that 
move  to  New  Jersey,  near  New  York 
and  the  studios,  none  of  these  things 
might  have  happened.  In  fact,  it  would 
have  been  most  unlikely.  Mrs.  Barbery 
was  a  New  Jersey  girl  when  she  married 
Mr.  Barbery,  who  lived  in  Massachusetts. 
The  family  name  is  really  Barbieri,  but 
because  people  found  it  difficult  to  spell, 
a  television  producer  suggested  they 
change  the  spelling  to  match  the  English 
pronunciation.  Christopher  was  named  for 
Mrs.  Barbery's  family.  Tirrell  is  really 
Edwina  Tirrell,  the  Edwina  because  they 
had  the  name  "Edwin"  picked  for  a  boy, 
and  the  Tirrell  because  it  is  the  family 
name  of  close  friends  in  Massachusetts. 
Before  all  this  happened,  however  .  .  . 
some  months,  that  is,  before  Tirrell  was 
born  .  .  .  Mrs.  Barbery  became  ill,  and 
her  doctor  thought  she  should  live  closer 
to  her  family,  all  of  whom  had  remained 
on  the  West  Long  Branch,  New  Jersey 
property  that  once  comprised  her  father's 
farm.  "We  had  to  leave  our  beloved  ten- 
room  house  in  Dedham,  Massachusetts, 
near  Boston,"  Mrs.  Barbery  recalls,  "first, 
to  move  into  an  apartment  and  then,  later, 
to  build  our  own  house  in  the  neighbor- 
hood where  my  nine  brothers  and  sisters 
lived.  It  was  hard  to  give  up  the  home  we 
had,  and  I  kept  thinking.  Why  does  this 
have  to  happen  to  me?  Why  do  I  have  to 
be  ill  like  this? 

"Now     I    know    that    everything    was 

J  happening  for  the  best.  Tirrell  was  born, 
the  loveliest  baby,  and  I  got  well.  We  kept 
our  Massachusetts  house  and  we  go  up 
there   when  we  can  in  the  summer,  but 

94 


In  Love  With  Life 


we  have  a  nice  new  seven -room  ranch 
house  now.  The  children  love  the  schools 
in  our  community,  they  have  dozens  of 
cousins  to  play  with,  all  living  close  to 
us,  and  they  have  these  fine  opportunities 
to  express  themselves  in  acting,  no  matter 
what  else  they  may  choose  to  do  later." 

When  Tirrell  was  still  a  toddler  and 
Chris  was  almost  six,  a  neighbor  suggested 
to  Mrs.  Barbery  that  she  ought  to  be 
getting  to  New  York  more  often  and 
having  more  diversion.  It  seemed  like  a 
good  idea,  so  one  day  she  got  tickets  to  a 
Jack  Barry  radio  program  and  took  Chris 
with  her,  never  guessing  that  this  was  an- 
other day  which  would  bring  great 
changes  into  their  lives.  It  was  an  audi- 
ence-participation show,  the  name  of 
which  she  can't  even  remember  now,  and 
Jack's  partner,  Dan  Enright,  came  through 
the  studio  audience  looking  for  a  bright 
little  boy  or  girl  to  come  up  on  stage  and 
pick  a  winning  number  out  of  a  hat.  He 
spied  Chris,  brown-eyed  and  reddish- 
brown-haired,  freckled,  and  bubbling  over 
with  excitement  and  interest.  "Bring  that 
young  fellow  up,  if  he'd  like  to  come,"  Mr. 
Enright  directed. 

Chris  liked  it  very  much,  so  much  that 
— to  his  mother's  dismay — he  talked  his 
head  off,  told  about  the  family,  and 
wound  up  with,  "You  know  what  my 
daddy  and  mommy  do?  They  go  out  and 
leave  my  baby  sister  and  me  all  alone 
sometimes."  It  wasn't  true,  of  course.  His 
imagination  was  getting  the  better  of  him. 
If  his  parents  sat  outdoors  on  a  summer 
evening  after  the  kids  were  in  bed,  or 
went  around  the  corner  for  ice  cream, 
there  was  always  the  watchful  eye  of  a 
neighbor.  But  Mrs.  Barbery's  face  was 
hot  with  blushes  and  she  felt  people  were 
looking  at  her  with  condemnation.  When 
Jack  Barry  asked  if  the  mother  of  the 
little  boy  would  remain  a  few  minutes 
after  the  broadcast,  she  thought,  Good 
heavens,  what  now?  Are  they  going  to 
scold  me  for  neglecting  my  children? 

Instead,  they  were  all  laughing  about 
Chris's  performance  and  praising  him 
when  the  show  was  over,  and  Jack  wanted 
to  tell  her  he  would  like  to  use  Chris  on 
another  of  his  shows,  Juvenile  Jury.  He 
thought  Chris  has  such  natural  talent  that 
it  should  be  developed,  and  suggested  that 
he  be  given  some  training  as  an  actor. 
Later,  after  talking  this  over  with  Chris's 
daddy,  Elizabeth  Barbery  decided  Chris 
should  go  to  the  Marie  Moser  Conserva- 
tory. He  was  enrolled,  continuing  his 
regular  school  work  at  the  West  Long 
Branch  Public  School. 

lhe  brother  and  sister  now  divide  their 
time  between  tutors  and  the  public  school 
system  in  their  town,  whichever  their 
schedule  of  work  requires.  Tirrell,  who 
was  nine  last  February  21,  will  be  a  sixth- 
grader  in  September — and  Chris,  fourteen 
on  August  18,  will  start  junior  high 
school  at  the  same  time.  Tirrell's  favorite 
subjects  are  reading,  spelling  and  mathe- 
matics. Chris  goes  for  math  and  history, 
has  a  passion  for  buses  and  knows  all 
about  their  construction  and  operation. 
He  collects  bus  models,  American  and 
foreign,  and  his  room  is  as  filled  with 
them  as  Tirrell's  is  with  her  dolls. 

Chris  is  also  a  ball  player,  graduating 
into  the  Pony  League  this  year.  "Chris 
won  the  batting  championship  in  the  Little 
League  and  their  team  upset  their  arch- 
rivals  who  had  held  the  crown  for  five 
years  straight,"  Tirrell  boasts  of  her  big 
brother.  They  are  both  terrific  Dodger 
fans — Chris    favors    the     Red     Sox     also. 

Mrs.  Barbery  holds  office  in  the  P.T.A., 
works  for  the  community  center,  and 
keeps  in  close  touch  with  the   children's 


school  work.  They  are  honor  students, 
both  learning  to  play  the  piano,  and  Chris 
is  good  on  the  drums.  Tirrell  wants  to 
take  ballet  this  fall,  and  both  have  voice 
training.  Mrs.  Barbery  has  done  amateur 
singing,  was  "end  lady"  in  a  minstrel 
show  that  raised  money  for  a  school  pro- 
ject last  year,  and  was  "the  best  one  in  the 
whole  show,"  according  to  her  daughter. 

Their  movie  and  television  viewing  are 
still  supervised  by  their  mother,  but  they 
go  for  musicals,  the  variety  shows,  the 
children's  programs  (especially  Tirrell), 
and  the  sports  stuff  (especially  Chris). 
They  love  Lucy,  and  have  a  professional 
interest  in  watching  the  big  dramatic 
shows. 

Chris  has  a  motor  boat,  tied  up  to  a 
dock  on  the  Shrewsbury  River,  and  they 
have  some  wonderful  vacations  up  at  the 
big  house  in  Massachusetts.  The  com- 
munity where  they  now  live  is  quite  built 
up,  but  in  Dedham  there  are  still  deep 
woods  near  by  and  Tirrell  loves  that.  She 
loves  animals,  too — but  not  hunters.  She 
doesn't  see  why  anyone  should  want  to 
shoot  at  an  animal  except  in  self-defense. 
"Animals  don't  usually  hurt  people,  and 
anyhow  people  are  supposed  to  be  smarter 
than    animals,"    she    argues    emphatically. 

.Besides  having  a  flair  for  drawing  and 
craft  work,  Tirrell  is  a  good  little  cook 
who  can  turn  out  a  fine  home-made 
macaroni  and  is  a  good  dishwasher  and 
cleaner-upper.  "Tirrell  knows  how  to  do 
a  great  many  things  well,"  says  her 
mother,  "and  everyone  likes  her  to  come 
and  visit  or  to  baby-sit.  She's  wonderful 
with  younger  children.  You  might  think 
people  would  cater  a  little  to  her,  but 
she's  the  one  who  does  the  catering. 
Everybody  likes  Chris,  too,  and  loves  to 
see  him  come — but  no  one  would  like  to 
board  him — he's  too  good  an  eater!" 

The  children  have  a  pool  which  their 
father  built  for  them — a  real  cement  pool, 
nine  feet  by  ten,  in  which  all  the  cousins 
are  welcome,  and  all  the  neighbors'  kids. 
They  get  together  and  play  hopscotch  and 
jump-rope  and  marbles  and  baseball.  A 
few  of  Tirrell's  particular  friends  often 
come  for  doll  tea-parties  during  the  long 
summer  afternoons,  and  she  plays  with 
her  dog,  Rusty.  "He's  a  mongrel,"  she  says, 
"but  I  wouldn't  change  him  for  any  other." 

It's  fun,  too,  for  her  to  be  Carol  on 
Love  of  Life.  She  loves  everyone  she 
works  with,  all  the  cast  and  the  crew  and 
the  producer  and  directors.  "We  call  one 
another  by  our  own  names  on  the  set," 
Tirrell  says,  "except  for  Bonnie  Bartlett, 
who  plays  Vanessa.  She  calls  me  'Sweetie.' 
She's  lovely  to  me.  Sometimes,  when 
there  are  toys  on  the  show,  I  play  with 
them.  And,  when  we  take  a  break,  I  can 
always  have  a  game  of  checkers  with 
one  of  the  cameramen.  I  really  have  a 
very  good  time." 

People  now  recognize  Tirrell  on  the 
street  and  tell  her  what  a  good  little 
actress  she  is.  Sometimes  they  ask  how 
she  ever  managed  to  stay  completely  mute 
when  the  little  girl  she  portrays  had  lost 
the  power  of  speech.  "It  was  easy,"  she 
explains.  "I  was  supposed  to  keep  quiet, 
so  I  did." 

She  thinks  a  lot  about  the  contrast  be- 
tween Carol's  life  and  her  own.  "I  wasn't 
ever  a  mute,  or  an  orphan.  I  have  never 
had  any  trouble  in  my  life,  and  I  am  so 
lucky  to  have  a  good  father  and  mother. 
I  never  was  treated  badly,  as  Carol  has 
been.  Carol  gets  very  scared  that  her 
happiness  with  Vanessa  and  Paul  Raven 
will  be  over  and  that  someone  will  come 
and  take  her  away  from  them  forever. 
I  sympathize  with  her — and  I  want  her 
life  to  turn  out  as  happily  as  mine." 


odess . . . 


Tlmt  Ivory  Ijook 

so  clear.  ..so  fresh...  so  ea.si.ly  yours 


This  bubbling  baby  has  That  Ivory  Look  and  the  magic  of  Ivory's  mildness 

can  bring  it  to  your  complexion,  too.  Remember,  the  milder  the  soap, 

the  prettier  your  skin.  That's  why  regular  care  with  pure,  mild  Ivory 

leaves  your  complexion  so  clear,  so  fresh,  so  appealing.  Such  a  pretty 

look — That  Ivory  Look!  Wouldn't  you  like  to  have  it,  too? 

99  "JtioXpwre  ...it  floats 


Wash  your  face  regularly  with 
pure,  mild  Ivory.  Mild  enough 
for  baby's  skin — so  right  for 
your  complexion. 


More  doctors  advise  Ivory  than  any  other  soap 


RADIO 


MIRROR 


1DI0  MIRROR'S  Program  Listings 


W.  •  25* 


NEW! 

LARRY  DEAN 
Sings  out  for  We  Ik 

OUR  GAL  SUNDAY 
in  England 

GENE  RAYBURN 
of  Steve  Allen's  Shows 


Ernie  Ford 
Molly  Bee  and  Doris  Drew 


SHASTA 


»w*  iMni.-vir  i.viiiMi. 


SHASTA 
CREAM  SHAMPOO 


1  The  Procter  &  Gamble  Co. 


Shasta  does  not  strip  away  nature's  ingredients  that  give 
hair  "body"!  Shasta  is  different;  a  luscious  cream  that  does 
not  scour  your  hair.  Because  it  cleans  so  gently  ...  it  actually 
guards  your  hair  against  fly-away  dryness;  leaves  it  soft,  soft, 
soft.  It's  sparked  with  lanolin;  lathers  in  any  kind  of  water; 
gives  your  hair  that  romantic  Shasta  sheen ! 
Now  you  can  shampoo,  then  comb  or  set  and  you're  all  set. 
No  more  first-day  "wild"  hair,  drooping  curls  or  flying  wisps. 
With  Shasta,  your  hair  behaves  the  right  way  right  away! 


Go  to  bed,  Stubborn  . . 


(Je&hotqofoq 

-to  call  I 


Last  night  at  the  Blakes',  he  danced  attendance  on  you.  He  didn't 

have  eyes  fot  anyone  else  ...  for  a  while.  But  when  you 

said   good-night,   you'd   already  lost  him.   You   didn't 

know,  and  you  couldn't  know  the  reason  why.  People 

with  halitosis  (bad  breath)  never  do. 

The  most  common  cause  of  bad  breath  is  germs 
.  .  .  Listerine  kills  germs  by  millions 

Why  depend  on  tooth  paste  alone?  Germs  are  the 

most  common  cause  of  bad  breath  .  .  .  they 

ferment  protein  always  present  in  the  mouth. 

The  more  you  reduce  these  germs — the  longer  your 

breath  stays  sweeter.  Listerine  kills  germs 

on  contact ...  by  the  millions. 

No  tooth  paste — no  non-antiseptic 

mouthwash — kills  germs 

the  way  Listerine  does 

Non-antiseptic  tooth  pastes  and 

mouthwashes    can't    kill    germs    as 

Listerine  does.  You  need  an  antiseptic 

to  kill  germs.  Listerine  IS  antiseptic 

—that's  why  it  stops  bad  breath 

four  times  better  than  any  tooth 

paste.  Gatgle  Listerine  full-strength. 


LISTERINE 
ANTISEPTIC 


.  . .  stops  bad  breath 
4  times  better  than  any  tooth  paste 


Mo'd  be/ieue  Iwqq 
ever  ernbdi-f-dSQecf 
by  Piiwples/'' 


New!  Clearasil  Medication 

STARVES' 
PIMPLES 

SKIN-COLORED  .  .  .  hides  pimples  while  it  works. 

At  last !  Science  discovers  a  new-type  medi- 
cation especially  for  pimples,  that  really 
works.  In  skin  specialists'  tests  on  202 
patients,  9  out  of  every  10  cases  were 
completely  cleared  up  or  definitely  improved 
while  using  clearasil. 

CLEARASIL  WORKS  FAST 
TO  MAKE   PIMPLES  DISAPPEAR 


IT 


^r± 


rn 


1 .  PENETRATES  PIMPLES  .  .  .  kera- 
tolytic  action  softens  and  dissolves 
affected  skin  tissue  .  .  .  permits 
medication  to  penetrate  down  into 
any  infected  area. 

2.  ISOLATES  PIMPLES  .  .  .  antiseptic 
action  of  this  new  type  medication 
stops  growth  of  bacteria  that  can 
cause  and  spread  pimples. 

3.  'STARVES'  PIMPLES  .  .  .  CLEAR- 
asil's  famous  dry-up  action 
'starves'  pimples  because  it  helps 
to  remove  the  oils  that  pimples 
'feed'  on. 

SKIN  CREAMS  CAN  'FEED'  PIMPLES 
CLEARASIL  'STARVES'  THEM 

Oil  in  pores  helps  pimples  grow  and  thrive.  So  oily 
skin  creams  can  actually  'feed'  pimples.  Only  an 
oil-absorbing  medication  .  .  .  clearasil,  helps  dry  up 
this  oil,  'starves'  pimples. 

'FLOATS  OUT*  BLACKHEADS 

clearasil's  penetrating  medical  action  softens  and 
loosens  blackheads  from  underneath,  so  they  'float 
out'  with  normal  washing.  So  why  suffer  the  misery 
of  pimples  or  blackheads !  clearasil  is  guaranteed 
to  work  for  you,  as  in  doctors'  tests,  or  money  back. 
Only  69<  at  all  drug  counters  (economy  size  98*). 


Largest-Selling  Pimple 
Medication  in  America  (including  Canada) 


TV 


RADIO 
MIRROR 


NOVEMBER,   1956 


N.  Y.,  N.  J.,  CONN.  EDITION 


VOL.  46,  NO.  6 


Ann  Higginbotham,  Editorial  Director 


Ann  Mosher,  Editor 
Teresa  Buxton,  Managing  Editor 
Claire  Safran,  Associate  Editor 
Jan  Coble,  Assistant  Editor 


Jack  Zasorin,  Art  Director 
Frances  Maly,  Associate  Art  Director 
Joan  Clarke,  Art  Assistant 
Bud  Goode,  West  Coast  Editor 


PEOPLE  ON  THE  AIR 

What's  New  From  Coast  to  Coast by  Peter  Abbott  8 

Ernie  Ford  &  Co by  Bud  Goode  23 

Home  Girl  (Doris  Drew) by  Elsa  Molina  26 

Talented  Teenager  (Molly  Bee) by  Mrs.  Lou  Adams  28 

Heart's  Desire  (Florian  ZaBach) by  Helen  Bolstad  30 

Sunday  in  England  (Vivian  Smolen  and  Alastair  Duncan) 

by  Lilla  Anderson  32 

The  Spirit  of  Romance  (James  Lipton  and  Nina  Foch) 

by  Conrad  Morton  34 

What's  the  Word  for  Garry  Moore? by  Elizabeth  Ball  36 

Pepper  Young's  Family  (picture  story  on  the  popular  daytime  drama)  50 

Full  Steam  Ahead  for  Stanley  (Buddy  Hackett) by  Ed  Meyerson  54 

Who's  Who  on  the  Galen  Drake  Show 56 

Waiting  for  Baby  (Julie  Stevens) by  Frances  Kish  60 

FEATURES  IN  FULL  COLOR 

Caesar's  New  "Wife"  (Janet  Blair) by  Gregory  Merwin  38 

"A  Guy  Like  Gene  Rayburn" by  Martin  Cohen  40 

Triumph  at  Twenty  (Larry  Dean) by  Gordon  Budge  44 

The  Most  Happy  Little  Girl  (Dorothy  Collins  and  Raymond  Scott) 

by  Gladys  Hall  46 

YOUR  LOCAL  STATION 

Faith  Is  His  Life  (Oral  Roberts) 14 

Taboo  on  Trivia  (WABC-TV) 16 

Fair  V  Fashionable  (WRCV-TV) 18 

Beauty  Is  His  Business  (WRCA-TV) 20 

YOUR  SPECIAL  SERVICES 

Pack  Up  Your  Bag 4 

Information  Booth 6 

TV  Radio  Mirror  Goes  to  the  Movies by  Janet  Graves  12 

Inside  Radio  (program  listings) 68 

TV  Program  Highlights 70 

Can  I  Help  You? by  Joan  Davis  78 

New  Designs  for  Living  (needlecraft  and  transfer  patterns) 80 

New  Patterns  for  You  (smart  wardrobe  suggestions) 90 

Cover  portrait  of  Ernie  Ford,  Molly  Bee  and  Doris  Drew  by  Bob  Perkins 


BUY  YOUR  DECEMBER  ISSUE  EARLY  •  ON  SALE  NOVEMBER  6 


PUBLISHED       MONTHLY       by      Macfadden 
Publications,    Inc.,    New    York,    N.    Y. 
EXECUTIVE,      ADVERTISING      AND      EDI- 
TORIAL     OFFICES      at      205      East      42nd 
Street,   New  York,    N.    Y.    Editorial   Branch 
Office:     6269    Selina    Ave.,    Hollywood    28, 
1  Calif.     Irving;     S.     Manheimer,     President; 
Lee      Andrews,      Vice      President;      Meyer 
*"WtO         Dworkin,    Secretary  and   Treasurer,    Adver- 
tising  offices   also   in  Chicago,    221    North 
LaSalle    Street,    and    San    Francisco. 

SUBSCRIPTION  RATES:  $3.00  one  year,  U.  S.  and 
Possessions  and  Canada.  $5.00  per  year  for  all  other 
countries. 

CHANGE  OF  ADDRESS:  6  weeks*  notice  essential.  When 
possible,  please  furnish  stencil  impression  address 
from  a  recent  issue.  Address  changes  can  be  made  only 
if  vou  send  us  your  old,  as  well  as  your  new  address. 
Write  to  TV  Radio  Mirror.  205  East  42nd  Street,  New 
York  17.  K.  Y. 
MANUSCRIPTS:    All    manuscripts  will    be  carefully  con- 


sidered, but  publisher  cannot  be  responsible  for  loss  or 
damage.  It  is  advisable  to  keep  a  duplicate  copy  for 
your  records.  Only  those  manuscripts  accompanied  by 
stamped,  self-addressed  return  envelopes  or  with  suffi- 
cient return  postage  will  be  returned. 
FOREIGN  editions  handled  through  Macfadden  Publi- 
cations International  Corp..  205  East  42nd  Street,  New 
York  17,  N.  Y.  Irving  S.  Manheimer,  President;  Doug- 
las   Lockhart,    Vice    President. 

RE-ENTERED  as  Second  Class  Matter,  June  28,  1954. 
at  the  Post  Office  at  New  York,  N.  Y.,  under  the  Act  of 
March  3,  1879.  Authorized  as  Second  Class  mail,  P.  O. 
Dept.,  Ottawa,  Ont.,  Canada.  Copyright  1956  by  Mac- 
fadden Publications.  Inc.  All  rights  reserved  under  In- 
ternational Copyright  Convention.  All  rights  reserved 
under  Pan-American  Copyright  Convention.  Todos  de- 
rechos  reservados  segun  la  Convencion  Pan-Americana 
de  Propiedad  Literaria  y  Artistica.  Title  trademark 
registered  in  U.S.  Patent  Office.  Printed  in  U.  S.  A. 
by  Art  Color  Printing  Company. 

Member  of  the  TRUE   STORY  Women's  Group 


Ho  Other  Leading  Toothpaste 


^^T 


YOUR 
BREATH 


CLEANS  CLEANS  CLEANS 

GUARDS  guards  GUARDS 


Like  Colgate  Dental  Cream! 


YOUR 
TEETH 


Unlike  other  leading  tooth- 
pastes, Colgate's  forms  an  in- 
visible, protective  shield  around 
your  teeth  that  fights  decay  all 
day  .  .  .  with  just  one  brushing! 
Ask  your  dentist  how  often  to 
brush  your  teeth.  But  remember! 
One  Colgate  brushing  fights  de- 
cay-causing bacteria  12  hours 
—or  more! 


Colgate's  with  Gardol  helps 
stop  bad  breath  all  day  for  most 
people  with  just  one  brushing! 
Instantly  sweeps  away  bacteria 
that  cause  bad  breath  originating 
in  the  mouth !  No  other  leading 
toothpaste*  cleans  your  breath 
while  it  guards  your  teeth  like 
Colgate  Dental  Cream  with 
Gardol! 


Cleans  Your  Breath  T  Guards  Your  Teeth 


THE  PRETTY  TEACHER . . . 


AND  THE 

BOY  WHO 

GREW  UP 

TOO  FAST! 


.now- 
after  school- 
in  the 
deserted  halls, 
they  faced 
each  other! 


■—     —  -  _ 


:  '■■' '■    ■-■-■v.  ::  .'   '    '■■■:■/.  '.  ■ 


ESTHER  WILLIAMS 
GEORGE  NADER 


THE 


UNGUARDEB 

OMENT 


£**&& 


stockm. 


*g*fte 


****&/ 


1 


TECHNICOLOR 


Co-starring  the  exciting  new  personality  JOHN    SAXON 

w.h  EDWARD  ANDREWS  •  LES  TREMAYNE 

Directed  by  HARRY  KELLER  •  Screenplay  by  HERB  MEADOW  and  LARRY  MARCUS  •  Produced  by  GORDON  KAY 

mesrs 


COMING  SOON  TO  YOUR 


PACK  UP  YOUR  BAG 


Crises  are  part  of  her  Edge  Of  Night 
role;  Teal  Ames  avoids  'em  in  travel. 


Summer  vacations  may  be  a  thing  of 
the  past — and  of  snapshot  albums. 
Well,  it  was  fun — except  perhaps  for  that 
packing  problem.  In  a  poll  of  people 
around  our  office,  we  found  two  kinds  of 
holiday  packers:  Those  who  packed  twice 
as  much  as  was  needed  and  those  who 
"under-packed."  To  help  you  stay  out  of 
either  category,  here  are  some  tips  for 
the  holiday  and  business  trips  ahead: 

First,  begin  by  listing  the  things  you'll 
really  need  when  you  get  there — then 
plan  on  packing  them  in  the  right-sized 
luggage.  When  you're  ready  to  pack,  re- 
member the  basic  rule:  If  you  jam  it  in 
wrinkled,   that's  how   it  will   come   out. 

To  save  folded  clothes  from  creases, 
insert  a  few  layers  of  crumpled  tissue 
paper.  Wrap  frilly  things  around  card- 
board from  a  man's  shirt.  Stuff  men's 
socks  in  the  shirt  collar  ring  to  save 
space  and  keep  the  shirt  collars  fresh. 
Pack  heavy  things  first,  the  smaller  pieces 
last.  The  corners  of  your  bag  are  just 
the  place  for  gloves,  a  scarf  or  belt,  or 
a  loosely-rolled  sweater.  Cosmetics  take 
to  corners,  too,  but  be  sure  to  fasten 
bottle   caps   with    adhesive   tape. 

The  best  way  to  fold  a  jacket  is  to 
button  it  and  lay  it  face  down  on  the 
bed.  Put  the  sleeves  in  a  "V"  across  the 
back,  smooth  the  shoulders,  then  fold 
the  jacket  across  the  middle,  sleeves  in- 
side, and  place  it  carefully  in  the  suit- 
case. Put  dresses  face  down  on  the  bed, 
too.  Then  fold  flaps  on  each  side  in  a 
straight  line  from  the  middle  of  the 
shoulder  to  the  hem.  Arrange  the  sleeves 
in  a  "V"  and  fold  the  dress  to  fit  the  bag. 

Don't  forget — a  traveling  iron,  a  sew- 
ing kit,  a  shoeshine  outfit,  a  clothes 
brush,  and  a  few  simple  first-aid  items. 
Oh,  and  one  more  thing,  remember  that 
it's  much  more  fun  if  the  luggage  is  as 
attractive  as  its  contents. 

For  more  travel  tips,  with  how-to-do- 
it pictures  and  sample  check-lists,  we  have 
arranged  for  a  free  "Guide  to  Packing" 
that  is  yours  simply  by  writing  to: 

Samsonite  Travel  Bureau 
Dept.  TVRM,  11-56 
1050  South  Broadway 
Denver  9,  Colorado. 


600    CHANCES    TO    WIN 


oo 


SEND  $2 
DONATION 


WITH   PUZZLE  ANSWER 
AND  QUALIFY  TO  WIN 


»i8,ooo  °°  EEt$3/5og 


00 


LETTER 
VALUES 


IN  THIS  NEWEST  GEMEROY- MANAGED  PUZZLE  CONTEST 

EXAMPLE    SOLUTION 


MASTER   WORD   LIST 


Here's  tops  in  entertainment ...  as  well  as  a  chance  to  win  up  to  $18,000.00!  600  fabulous  prizes  in  all! 
And  the  best  part  is  that  everything  you  need  to  work  this  exciting  puzzle  is  right  before  you!  You  don't 
need  a  dictionary  or  reference  books.  The  words  to  use  and  how  to  spell  them  are  right  on  this  page! 
You  don't  depend  on  the  whim  of  judges;  you  don't  identify  weird  pictures;  you  don't  write  any  jingles 
or  essays.  Skill  and  skill  alone  will  determine  the  winners.  All  cash  awards  are  paid  promptly  and  in  full 
($495,000  in  cash  awards  have  been  given  by  G.  F.  Gemeroy  within  the  past  10  years!)  So,  if  you've  been 
yearning  to  increase  your  earning  power,  here  is  your  big  chance!  Enter 
this  novel  and  exciting  NEW  puzzle  contest  right  now.  Remember,  600  cash 
awards  in  all.  The  first  prize  will  not  be  less  than  $3,500.00  .  .  .  and  this 
sum  can.  be  increased  to  $18,000.00  at  the  grand  prize  winner's  option! 

WHY  THIS  AMAZING  OFFER? 

This  important  campaign  is  sponsored  by  the  Greek  Community  of  Seattle, 
Inc.,  for  the  purpose  of  enlisting  your  financial  support  for  its  newly  an- 
nounced Building  Program.  Organized  in  1921  by  Greek-American  Veterans 
upon  their  return  home  after  serving  in  the  Armed  Forces  of  their  adopted 
country,  a  Community  Center  was  established  in  Seattle  to  serve  social  and 
cultural  needs.  Since  that  time,  the  younger  element  of  the  Seattle  Greek 
Community  has  increased  400- fold!  The  trustees  of  this  Community  Center, 
comprising  the  most  widely  known  Greek-American  citizens  of  Seattle,  find 
it  impossible  to  maintain  progress  with  the  outdated  facilities  of  35  years 
ago.  A  new  Community  Center  to  meet  the  demands  of. the  younger  genera- 
tion is  an  urgent  necessity. 

G.  F.  Gemeroy,  America's  foremost  Contest  man,  has  been  appointed  by 
the  Committee  as  director  of  this  Fund-Raising  Campaign.  The  Greek  Com- 
munity of  Seattle,  Inc.,  invites  your  support  for  this  ambitious  project 
which  has  -for  its  fundamental  purpose  the  making  of  American  Greeks  of 
today  into  better  citizens  of  tomorrow. 


£ 


Berlin 

Clark 

Clay 

Donovan 

Estonia 

Gandhi 

Graham 

Hays 

Hearst 

Italy 


Jakarta 

Jenner 

Johnson 

Kimbro 

Lausche 

Lhasa 

Mollet 

Naples 

Nehru 

Paris 


Pineau 

Saar 

Salk 

Skagit 

Slavsky 

Sukarno 

Vienna 

Wagner 

Yamul 

Zurich 


[Extra  puzzle  charts  sent  free 
on  request] 


&! 


lJ  Hi « l|°,*.gp5™,*l[|  s ;  a  ■  n  ;  p  :  e  QO  s  ] I 


HERE'S  HOW  TO  WORK  THE  PUZZLE 


Place  letters,  to  spell  suitable  words  in  each  name  section  in  such  a  manner 
as  to  obtain'  the  highest  possible  Grand  Total.  All  blank  squares  must  be 
filled  with  letters  to  spell  interlocking  words  which  must  be  selected  from 
the  Master  List  of  30  words.  No  word  may  be  used  twice,  and  only  one 
letter  to  each  square.  All  words  must  interlock  one  with  another.  Spell 
vertical  (upright)  words  from  top  to  bottom,  and  horizontal  words  from  left 
to  right.  The  "key"  word  SOCRATES  and  the  8  "key"  letters  "spotted" 
on  the  chart,  must  remain  in  the  positions  shown.  To  begin,  select  a  7-letter 
vertical  word  that  will  interlock  with  the  "O"  in  SOCRATES  in  which  the 
7th  letter  will  be  "A."  Look-  over  the  Master  List  and  you  will  discover 
that  ESTONIA  must  be  the  word.  Your  next  step  is  to  choose  a  5-letter 
horizontal  word  in  which  the  3rd  letter  will  be  "A"  to  interlock  with  the 
"A"  in  ESTONIA.  Likewise,  in  this  same  manner,  select  a  vertical  6-letter 
word  whose  second  letter  will  interlock  with  the  "E"  in  SOCRATES. 
Continue  this  easy  procedure  to  find  the  remaining  17  interlocking  words  to 
fill  all  blank  squares  in  the  puzzle  chart. 


HOW  TO  ADD  UP  YOUR  GRAND  TOTAL  SCORE 


Each  letter  used  in  the  puzzle  has  a  point  value  (see  letter  value  chart 
above  puzzle).  The  18  interlocking  circled  letters  are  given  triple  (3  times) 
value.  After  using  suitable  connecting  words  to  fill  all  the  squares,  add  up 
the  Grand  Total  value  of  all  the  letters  used  in  your  entire  puzzle  solution, 
including  the  key  word  "SOCRATES"  and  the  8  key  letters  spotted  on  the 
chart.  Show  this  Grand  Total  in  the  space  provided  at  the  bottom  of  the 
puzzle.  The  object  is  to  use  words,  the  total  value  of  whose  letters  will 
produce  the  highest  possible  grand  total  when  all  are  added  together  as 
though  they  were  in  one  long  single  column.  Observe  specimen  chart  above 
the  Official  Puzzle.  Different  words  are  used  to  illustrate  the  method  to 
follow.  When  puzzle  is  finished,  fill  in  your  name  and  address  neatly  in  the 
coupon,  and  mail  it  with  a  $2  donation  to  G.  F.  GEMEROY,  Contest 
Director,  Mutual  Life  Bldg.,  Seattle,  Wash.  Residents  of  United  States, 
Canada,  Alaska,  Hawaii  and  Puerto  Rico  are  eligible  to  enter  this  contest 
if  at  least  17  years  old. 


TIEBREAKERS    MAILED    IMMEDIATELY 


Each  contestant  who  submits  a  Grand  Total  to  this  puzzle  within  25  points 
of  the  highest  score  is  eligible  to  "move  along"  to  the  Semi-Final  Tie- 
breaker. The  day  we  receive  your  solution  (if  qualified  under  the  25-point 
rule),  your  Tiebreaker  with  rules  and  Master  Word  List  will  be  sent  you. 
This  Tiebreaker  will  be  similar  to  the  initial  puzzle,  but  will  require  more 
word  sections  and  a  larger  Word  List.  With  this  Tiebreaker,  you  receive  a 
Special  Optional  Offer  whereby  you  may  increase  your  $2  donation,  and 
"step-up"  your  First  Prize  from  $3,500.00  to  as  much  as  $18,000.00!  All 
contestants  who  achieve  Qualifying  Scores  in  the  initial  and  Semi-Final 
Tiebreaker  Puzzles  are  eligible  to  move  up  to  the  "Run-off"  finals.  Such 
contestants  will  not  be  required  to  send  any  added  donation  unless  they 
elect  to  do  so.  It  is  possible  to  win  a  First  Prize  of  $3,500.00  without  add- 
ing a  penny  to  your  original  $2  donation.  The  popular  "Qualifying  Score 
Rule"  (a  feature  of  Gemeroy-supervised  contests)  will  continue  in  the  Semi- 
Final  Tiebreaker.  By  this  plan,  if  you  achieve  a  score  within  60  points  of 
the  Maximum  High  for  the  Semi-Final  Tiebreaker,  you  are  eligible  to 
advance  to  the  "Run-off"  Tiebreaker.  In  the  event  of  ties,  consecutive 
"Run-oft's"  (not  to  exceed  2  more)  will  be  used  to  determine  the  600  Prize 
Winners.  Please  mail  all  letters  and  donations  to  G.  F.  GEMEROY,  Contest 
Director,  Mutual  Life  Bldg.,  Seattle  4,  Washington. 


$495,000.00    GIVEN    TO    PUZZLE    HOBBYISTS 
BY     G.    F.    GEMEROY     IN     PAST    10     YEARS! 


Snam 


ES-.N-THE-N 

mm,m,K  ff.T ,"  T  m  m  • 


EWS  CROSSWORD  PUZZLEi 


A 


!     S 

J L 


axm 


Ems — 


N 


itu 


JL~~ 


C!R  |A!  T 


fli 


Q 


C 


TTTXT) 


Si 

i 

:  i 
i 
i 
i 
i 
i 
i 
i 
i 
i 
i 
i 
i 
i 

:  I 
I 

":  I 

I 

SI 

I 

I 

/  I 

■•■:■  I 
I 
I 
:  I 
:.  I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 


'■int n  n Til  in 


SEND   $2   DONATION  TODAY 


GRAND 
TOTAL 


Above  is  my  score  for  this  Crossword  Puzzle,  and  enclosed  is  my  $2  donation 
for  the  Greek  Community  Building  Fund.  I  understand  that  my  Semi-Final 
Tiebreaker  is  to  be  mailed  to  me  at  once  provided  my  answer  is  within  25  points 
of  the  correct  total. 


NAME.. 


ADDRESS.. 


CITY  OR  P.O. 


STATE  OR  PROV. 


I 
I 

»TS 


Send  cash,  M.O.  or  personal  check  to 
G.  F.  GEMEROY 

MUTUAL  LIFE  BLDG.,  SEATTLE,  WASHY 


DEADLINE  for  entries  Is  Jan.  31, 
1957.  We  reserve  the  option  of  ox- 
tending  this  deadline  by  not  more 
than   90   days. 


PERIODIC  PAIN 

Midol  acts  three  ways  to  bring 
faster,  more  complete  relief  from 
menstrual  suffering.  It  relieves 
cramps,  eases  headache  and  it 
chases  the  "blues".  Sally  now 
takes  Midol  at  the  first  sign  of  , 
V.  menstrual  distress.  ^ 

"WHAT  WOMEN  WANT  TO  KNOW" 

^^      a    24-page   book   explaining    menstruation   ^^k 

W  is  yours,  FREE.  Write  Dep't  B-116,  Box  280,         A 

New  York  18,  N.  Y.  (Sent  in  plain  wrapper). 


INFORMATION  BOOTH 


Brian  Keith 


Ready  for  Stardom 

/  would  appreciate  some  information 
about  Brian  Keith,  who  portrays  Matt 
Anders  on  the  TV  series,  Crusader. 

C.  V.  Harder,  Chicago,  111. 

The  play,  "Out  West  of  8th,"  closed 
quietly  in  four  days,  but  it  helped  open 
the  way  to  a  career  in  films  and  television 
for  its  young  leading  man,  Brian  Keith.  A 
Hollywood  talent  scout  spotted  him  in  the 
play,  and  offered  a  contract.  Brian  was  in- 
terested, but  not  ready.  "I  need  more 
experience,"  he  concluded,  "especially  in 
television."  .  .  .  Actually  Brian  had  made 
his  movie  debut  back  in  1924  at  the  age  of 
three  in  "The  Pied  Piper  of  Malone."  He 
reports  that  temperament  almost  terminat- 
ed his  career  at  that  time.  "What  a  nasty 
little  brat  I  was!"  .  .  .  Brian's  real  name 
is  Robert  Keith,  Jr. — Robert  Keith  senior, 
a  veteran  stage  performer  and  former  lead- 
ing man,  is  now  highly  successful  as  a 
character  actor  on  stage  and  in  films. 
Brian's  mother,  Helena  Shipman,  was  once 
on  the  stage,  too,  although  she  retired  sev- 
eral years  ago.  .  .  .  The  theater  was  really 
"home"  to  Brian,  until  1942  when  he  en- 
listed and  served  with  the  Marines.  After 
the  war  he  played  in  summer  stock,  tour- 
ing companies,  and  on  Broadway  in  "Mr. 
Roberts,"  "Darkness  at  Noon"  and  "Out 
West  of  8th."  He  got  the  video  breaks  he 
was  seeking — and  appeared  on  many  top 
TV  drama  shows.  "This  is  the  finest  enter- 
tainment medium  for  giving  new  talent  a 
chance,"  says  Keith  enthusiastically.  "New 
actors  gain  remarkable  skill  and  recogni- 
tion on  television."  .  .  .  When  Keith  did 
heed  the  Hollywood  call  in  late  1953,  he 
was  ready — and  he  immediately  won  star- 
ring roles  in  "Five  Against  the  House"  and 
"Tight  Spot."  As  Matt  Anders  in  the  cur- 
rent television  series,  Crusader,  he's  a 
popular  weekly  favorite  with  viewers  every- 
where. .  .  .  Brian  stands  6  foot  1,  weighs 
185  pounds,  has  sandy  hair  and  blue  eyes. 
In  Arizona,  in  June  of  1954,  he  married 
the  former  actress  and  ballet  dancer,  Judy 
Landon.  They  have  one  son.  Michael  James 
Keith,  born  Mav  16.  1955. 


Annette  Funicello 


Top-Grade  Actress 


/    would    appreciate    some    information 
about  Annette  Funicello,  who  appears  on 
The  Mickey  Mouse  Club  on  ABC -TV. 
C.  McF.,  Groton,  N.  Y. 

The  youthful,  alert  audience  of  Walt 
Disney's  children's-repertory  company, 
"The  Mouseketeers,"  lifted  this  charmer 
from  featured  song-and-dance  chores  to 
the  enviable  position  of  hostess-narrator 
on  the  Italian  Foreign  Correspondent  se- 
ries for  the  Mickey  Mouse  Club.  .  .  .  An- 
nette was  born  in  Utica,  New  York,  on 
October  22,  1942,  of  Italian  ancestry.  Her 
father,  Joseph  Edward  Funicello,  is  an 
automobile  mechanic.  Mother  Virginia 
Funicello  and  brothers  Joe,  10,  and 
Michael,  4,  complete  the  family  scene  at 
their  home  in  Studio  City,  California.  .  .  . 
When  Annette  was  five,  she  prepared  for 
an  entertainment  career  at  the  Margie  Rix 
School  of  Dance,  in  North  Hollywood. 
A  part-time  modeling  career  resulted 
when  Annette  won  a  beauty  contest  as 
"Miss  Willow  Lake,"  at  the  age  of  nine. 
Walt  Disney  spotted  the  talented  young- 
ster in  May,  1955,  at  the  time  she  was  ap- 
pearing in  the  "Ballet  vs.  Jive"  amateur 
show.  .  .  .  Now  Annette  counts  her  fellow 
Mouseketeers  as  "my  favorite  friends." 
Annette  is  a  great  sportswoman,  enjoying 
swimming,  skating,  dancing  and  horse- 
back-riding. Her  academic  prowess  is  no 
less  impressive.  Currently  in  Grade  8-A 
at  North  Hollywood  Junior  High,  she  is 
a  straight- "A"  student. 

Calling  All  Fans 

The  following  clubs  invite  new  members. 
If  you  are  interested,  write  to  address 
given — and   not  to  TV   Radio   Mirror. 

Lawrence  Welk  Fan  Club,  c/o  Frances 
L.  Young,  1604  E.  Susquehanna  St., 
Allentown,  Pa. 

Joyce's  Revue  (Joyce  Randolph),  Box 
171,  Alta  Vista,  Iowa. 

Tim  Considine  Fan  Club,  c/o  Lynn 
Bowland,  6843  Chantilly,  Dallas,  Texas. 
{Continued   on   page   71) 


One 
does  more  for  your  hair 


than  brushing 
100  strokes  a  day! 


A 


No  jars 


no  bottles 


no  messy 
hands 


& 


LJ 


Anoiin 


® 


THE  NEW  HAIRDRESSING  IN  SPRAY  FORM 


Spray  on  this  gteaseless  hairdressing 

after  shampoos— after  permanents— 

and  whenever  your  hair  is  dull  or  dry 

You  know  what  brushing  does.  Now  give  your 
hair  the  same  beautiful   results  a  quicker, 
easier  way.  Spray  on  LANOLIN  DISCOVERY 

—a  few  quick  brush  strokes,  and  this  new 
kind  of  hairdressing  conditions  every  hair  right 
down  to  the  scalp.  Instantly  your  hair  looks 
youthfully  alive  with  bright  sparkling  highlights. 

Makes  your  hair  naturally  soft 

— naturally  easy-to-manage 

— naturally  shiny. . .  TODAY 


Available  wherever  cosmetics  are  sold 

large  size  $1.25 

giant  economy  size  $1.89  plus  tax 

Used  and  recommended  by 
professional  beauticians  everywhere 


: 


Bundle  of  Joy,  title  of  their  co-starring  movie,  is  also  a  personal  forecast  for  Eddie  and  Debbie  Fisher. 

What's  New  from  Coast  to  Coast 


By  PETER  ABBOTT 


OCTOBER  is  going  to  be  a  raucous, 
rocking  month  in  radio  and  TV.  The 
World  Series  starts  October  3rd  .  .  . 
the  presidential  campaign  booms 
down  the  home  stretch  .  .  .  new  shows 
make  their  debut  and  old  favorites 
return.  .  .  .  First  big  musical  event 
of  the  season  will  be  "You're  the 
Top,  "  in  honor  of  Cole  Porter,  on  CBS- 
TV's  Ford  Star  Jubilee,  Sat.,  Oct. 
6th.  Porter,  himself,  will  be  in  the 
show  and  he  has  laid  down  the  law. 
No  tributes.  No  bouquets.  Positively 


no  "Cole  Porter  story."  "This  will 
be  a  revue,"  he  says,  "strictly  for 
fun."  Among  the  stars  in  the  90- 
minute  revue  will  be  Gordon  MacRae, 
Louis  Armstrong,  George  Sanders, 
Dorothy  Dandridge,  Dolores  Gray  and 
Peter  Lind  Hayes  and  Mary  Healy  .  .  .  . 
The  first  big  dramatic  production  of 
the  season  will  star  one  of  Cole 
Porter's  proteges,  Mary  Martin,  who 
was  an  unknown  until  she  scorched 
Broadway  with  her  sultry  delivery  of 
Porter's  "My  (Continued  on  page  97) 


Next  for  Mary  Martin — here  with 
her  "Peter  Pan"  co-star,  daughter 
Heller  Halliday:  "Born  Yesterday." 


Two  men  least  likely  to  ever  meet: 
Tonight's  Steve  Allen  goes  to  bed 
as  Today's  Dave  Sarroway  rises. 


NEW  lightly-pressed  powder 
to  avoid  that  "made-up"  look! 


in  smart  new  tortoise  shell  tone  case! 

Puff  Magic  is  new!  Puff  Magic  is  different!  Puff  Magic  is 

Lady  Esther's  famous  loose  face  powder  lightly  pressed  in  a  beautiful 
new  tortoise  shell  tone  case. 

Puff  Magic  covers  every  flaw,  yet  never  cakes  or  streaks 
even  when  you  re-powder!  That's  because  Puff  Magic 

is  lightly  pressed  powder— pressed  just  enough  to  keep  it  from  spilling, 

but  not  enough  to  turn  it  into  a  heavy,  solid  cake  that  gives  you 
a  heavy  "made-up"  look.  Just  a  light,  light  puff  of  Puff  Magic 
is  all  you  need  to  give  your  skin  the  most  natural 
radiance  ever.  A  stunning  purse  accessory  ^ rffrj 

in  its  smart  tortoise  shell  tone  case. 

$1.00  with  mirror  and  puff 
and  59$  plus  tax 

6  radiant  shades 


at  your  dressing  table, 

use  Lady  Esther 

loose  Face  Powder. 


&AbaZMtr  Mow.  Section  £ve/L 


■    1 

w 

I  *&«■     *w±  « 

^^        '^^S 

■  0fi^ 

PIER  ANGELI,  co  starring 

VIVIAN  BLAINE,  co-starring  in 

CVO  CHARISSE,  co  starring  in 

JEANNE  CRAIN,  co-starring 

in  M-G-M's 

"Public  Pigeon  Number  One" 

M-G-M's  "Silk  Stockings" 

in  M-G-M's 

Somebody  Up  There  Likes  Me" 

An  RKO-Radio  Picture. 
Color  by  Technicolor 

"The  Fastest  Gun  Alive" 

DORIS  DAY,  co-starring  in 

"Julie"— An  Arwin  Production 

for  M-G-M  Release. 


Name  your  favorite -and.  you  may  win 

Lustre-lzeme  "od,UU(J 


I 


ANN  MILLER,  co-starring  in 
M-G-M's  "The  Opposite  Sex" 

In  CinemaScope  and  Metrocolor. 


SHEREE  NORTH,  starring  in 
"The  Best  Things  In  Life  Are  Free" 

A  20th  Century-Fox  Production. 
In  CinemaScope.  Color  by  DeLuxe. 


MAUREEN  O'HARA.  starring  in 
"Everything  But  The  Truth" 

A  Universal-International  Picture 
In  Eastman  Color. 


DEBRA  PAGET,  co-starring  in  Cecil 

B.  DeMille's  Production  of  "The  Ten 

Commandments".  A  Paramount  Picture 

in  VistaVision.  Color  by  Techrffcolor. 


ELEANOR  PARKER,  co-starring 

in  M-G-M's 

"The  Painted  Veil" 


JANE  POWELL,  starring  in 
"The  Girl  Most  Likely" 

An  RKO-Radio  Picture. 
Print  by  Technicolor. 


DEBBIE  REYNOLDS,  starring 
in  "Tammy" 

A  Universal-International  Picture. 
Print  by  Technicolor  in  CinemaScope. 


GINGER  ROGERS,  starring  in 
"The  First  Traveling  Saleslady"— An 

RKO-Radio  Picture.  Print  by  Technicolor 


JANE  RUSSELL,  starring  in 
"The  Revolt  of  Mamie  Stover" 

A  20th  Century-Fox  Production 
In  CinemaScope.  Color  by  DeLuxe. 


ELIZABETH  TAYLOR,  co  starring  in 

M-G-M's  "Raintree  County" 

Filmed  fn  M-G-M  Camera  65  and  Color. 


NATALIE  WOOD,  co  starring  in 

"A  Cry  in  The  Night".  A  Jaguar 

Production  presented  by  Warner  Bros. 


DANA  WYNTER,  starring  in 
"The  Sixth  of  June" 

A  20th  Century -Fox  Production. 
In  CinemaScope.  Color  by  DeLuxe. 


If  your  favorite  is  a  star 

not  pictured,  send  in  her  name 

on  entry  form. 


*What  are  the  ANNUAL  FAME  POLLS? 

The  FAME  POLL  was  originated  25  years  ago  by  the  Quigley 
Publishing  Company,  a  leading  publisher  of  newspapers 
and  magazines  relating  to  the  motion  picture  world. 

Each  year,  FAME  magazine  Conducts  a  poll  among  theatre 
owners  and  managers  from  coast-to-coast  to  determine  the 
top  Hollywood  box  office  stars. 

Last  year  Grace  Kelly  was  Top  Screen  Actress  of  the 
Year  in  the  Fame  Poll.  Who  will  get  the  honor  this  year? 
Will  it  be  the  star  whose  name  you  send  in  on  the  entry 
form  on  the  next  page?  If  so,  you  may  win  120,000.  See 
details  on  opposite  page. 


PA&<se*vt&  A4a#u/~76p  S!ta/td/ 


ANITA  EKBERG,  co-starring  in 
"Back  from  Eternity" 

An  RKO-Radio  Picture. 


RHONDA  FLEMING,  co-starring  fn 

HAL  WALLIS'  "Gunfight  At  The 

O.K.  Corral".  A  Paramount  Picture  in 

VistaVision.  Color  by  Technicolor. 


GRACE  KELLY,  co  starring  in 
"High  Society"— A  Sol  C.  Siegel 
Production.  An  M-G-M  Release  in 
VistaVision.  Color  by  Technicolor. 


DEBORAH  KERR,  co-starring  in 
M  G  Ms  "Tea  and  Sympathy" 
In  CinemaScope  and  Melrocolor 


VIRGINIA  MAVO,  co  starring  in 

"Buffalo  Grass".  A  Jaguar  Production 

Presented  by  Warner  Bros. 


a  Great  Big  Cash.  Prize  in  the 

Movie-Star  Sweepstakes ! 


Sere's  all  you  do  to  enter:  Study  the  faces  of 
;he  Lustre -Creme  Girls  pictured  here.  Decide 
rhich  one  of  these  stars  (or  another  of  your  own 
choice)  you  would  like  to  see  win  the  Twenty- 
Fifth  Annual  FAME  POLL* 

•fr     ft     "fr     -w" 

)end  in  her  name  on  the  entry  form  at  lower  right. 


ahoose  the  actress  you  would  like  to 
ee  win  the  25th  Annual  FAME  Poll 
s  the  "Top  Screen  Actress  of  the 
fear."  Simply  write  the  star's  name, 
Jid  your  name  and  address,  on  the 
iweepstakes  Entry  Blank  in  the  lower 
ight  hand  corner.  Nothing  to  buy 
. .  nothing  to  pay  for  .  .  .  and  you 
nay  win  the  fust  prize  of  $20,000 — 
»r  one  of  the  many  other  casli  prizes. 

Send  in  as  many  entries  as  you 
rant — but  use  a  different  entry  blank 
ivery  time.  (Ask  for  extra  entry  blanks 
iherever  you  buy  Lustre-Creme,  of 


send  in  your  entry  on  a  postcard,  or 
use  a  plain  piece  of  paper— .mailing 
each  entry  form  separately.) 

Each  of  the  stars  shown  here  uses 
Lustre-Creme,  Hollywood's  favorite 
shampoo.  And  there's  a  good  reason 
why  4  out  of  5  top  Hollywood  movie 
stars  prefer  it.  Because  Lustre-Creme 
never  dries — it  beautifies.  It's  blessed 
with  lanolin — always  leaves  your  hair 
star-bright,  satin-soft,  a  joy  to  man- 
age. Use  it  once — and  Hollywood's 
favorite  Lustre-Creme  Shampoo  will 
be  your  favorite,  too! 


Hollywood's  Favorite 

Lustre-Creme  Shampoo 


!<{sfc-(W 


Cream 
or  Lotion 


FIRST  PRIZE $20,000 

SECOND  PRIZE 5,000 

5  THIRD  PRIZES  OF 1,000  each 

500  FOURTH  PRIZES  OF    ...  .     10  each 

Here's  all  you  do:— 

1 .  PRINT  on  the  entry  form  (or  on  plain  paper  or  postcard)  your 
name  and  address  plus  name  of  movie  star  whom  you  would  like  to 
see  named  "Top  Screen  Actress  of  the  Year"  in  the  25th  Annual 
FAME  Poll. 

2.  MAIL  YOUR  ENTRY  TO  Lustre-Creme  Sweepstakes,  P.  0.  Box 
9,  New  York  46,  New  Yorlc. 

3.  SEND  AS  MANY  ENTRIES  AS  YOU  WANT— hut  mail  each  one 
separately. 

4.  ENTRIES  MUST  BE  POSTMARKED  on  or  before  November  10, 

1956,  and  received  not  later  than  November  17,  1956. 

If  your  entry  carries  the  name  of  the  star  who  is  designated 
"Top  Screen  Actress  of  the  Year"  by  FAME  Magazine,  your  entry 
will  be  eligible  for  the  Sweepstakes  Drawing. 

All  prize-winners  will  be  selected  by  blindfold,  drawing  by  ex- 
ecutives of  Advertising  Distributors  of  America.  Only  one  prize  to 
a  winner.  Judges'  decisions  final. 

Top  winner  will  be  announced  on  Colgate-Palmolive  TV  pro- 
gram, "Strike  It  Rich,"  December  14.  (See  local  TV  listings  for 
time  and  station.) 

This  sweepstakes  is  open  to  all  residents  of  the  continental  United 
Stales,  Hawaii  and  Alaska,  except  employees  and  their  immediate 
families  of  Colgale-Palmolive  Co.,  its  advertising  agencies  and  the 
Quigley  Publishing  Co.  Void  in  the  Sftte  of  New  Jersey.  Subject  to 
all  other  Federal  and  State  regulations. 

(Note:  If  FAME's  "Top  Screen  Actress  of  the  \  ear"  is  namedby  fewer 
persons  than  there  are  prizes,  all  entries  will  be  eligible  to  participate 
in  the  Lustre-Creme  Sweepstakes.) 

USE  THIS    HANDY   ENTRY    FORM 
(Additional  forms  at  your  Lustre-Creme  dealer.) 

LUSTRE-CREME  $35,000  MOVIE-STAR  SWEEPSTAKES 

Mail  to:  LUSTRE-CREME  SWEEPSTAKES  T 

P.  0.  Box  9,  New  York  46,  N.  Y. 
I  would  like  to  see  Movie  Star 

(print  in  star's  name  clearly) 

named  as  the  "Top  Screen  Actress  of  the  Year"  in  the  25th 
Annual  FAME  PoU. 

My  Name 

A  ddress '. 

City P.O.  Zone State 


TV 


RADIO 
MIRROR 


*H 


12 


TV  favorites  on 

your  theater  screen 

By  JANET  GRAVES 


The  Best  Things  in  Life  Are  Free 

20th;  cinemascope,  de  iaxe  color 

Seems  as  if  Gordon  MacRae's  TV  experi- 
ence has  given  him  a  new  ease,  a  breezy 
manner  right  in  keeping  with  this  free- 
wheeling movie  musical.  He  plays  Buddy 
De  Sylva,  with  Ernest  ("Marty" )  Rorgnine 
and  Dan  D alley  joining  him  as  Brown  and 
Henderson,  the  other  two  members  of  the 
great  song-writing  trio.  Lively,  lovely 
Sheree  North  shares  with  Gordon  a  ro- 
mance that's  overshadowed  by  the  dizzy 
progress  of  the  boys'  cooperative  career.  In 
its  course,  the  atmosphere  of  the  1920's  is 
revived,  ivith  sentiment  and  satire.  Laughs 
and  lots  of  music  make  it  entertaining  for 
all  the  family. 

Tea  and  Sympathy 

m-c-m;  cinemascope,  metrocolor 

Movie-makers  have  seized  on  a  daring  sub- 
ject here,  casting  Deborah  Kerr  as  the 
tender-hearted  wife  of  a  college  instructor, 
John  Kerr  as  a  student  whose  masculinity 
is  questioned.  Actually,  it's  a  study  of  the 
terrible  effects  of  gossip.  As  Deborah's 
blustering  husband,  Leif  Erickson  has 
personal  reasons  for  believing  the  cruel 
whispers  about  the  boy.  Both  Kerrs  (who 
aren't  related  to  each  other)  give  fine  per- 
formances. The  TV-to-H oily wood  parade, 
in  which  Charlton  Heston  was  a  leader 
several  years  ago,  has  a  notable  marcher 
in  John  Kerr,  whose  third  movie  is  his 
biggest,  hit.  Rich  opportunity  in  varied  TV 
dramas  has  given  him  an  acting  power  you 
wouldn't  expect  of  so  youthful-looking  a 
player.  Actually,  John's  in  his  mid-twen- 
ties, happily  married,  the  father  of  twins. 

Attack! 

UNITED  artists 

Grueling  in  its  impact,  this  World  War  II 
story  offers  strong  fare  for  adults.  It's  a 
striking  close-up  of  men  at  war,  contrast- 
ing furious  courage  (Jack  Palance's)  with 
abject  cowardice  (Eddie  Albert's).  These 
two  show  the  extremes.  In  between  are  the 
average  men  who  bear  the  brunt  of  battle 
— like  the  sturdy  sergeant  portrayed  by 
Buddy  Ebsen  (familiar  to  you  as  Davy 
Crockett's    side-kick).     Young    newcomer 


Laughs  V  music  with  Ernest  Borgnine,  Gordon  MacRae,  Sheree  North,  Dan  Dailey. 


William.  Smithers,  also  with  TV  training, 
is  the  looie  who  faces  a  deadly  decision. 

The  Bad  Seed 

WARNER  BROS. 

It's  for  grown-ups  only — this  shocking, 
argument-provoking  picture  of  pure  evil. 
Pretty,  flaxen-haired  little  Patty  McCor- 
mack  is  the  villainess  of  the  piece,  a  child 
quite  capable  of  planning  and  carrying  out 
cold-blooded  murder.  Nancy  Kelly  is  the 
distraught  mother,  realizing  slowly  and. 
with  growing  horror  what  her  daughter  is. 
Amid  all  this  woe,  it's  a  pleasure  to  see 
the  comic  touches  contributed  by  Evelyn 
Varden,  doughty  veteran  of  many  a  TV 
play.  She's  the  fluttery  landlady  who  is 
completely  taken  in  by  Patty's  sugar-sweet 
wiles — and  nearly  pays  for  her  gullibility 
with  her  life. 


At  Your  Neighborhood  Theaters 

Away  All  Boats  (TJ-I;  VistaVision,  Tech- 
nicolor): In  a  stirring  war  saga,  Jeff 
Chandler  (once  Professor  Boynton  on  ra- 
dio's Our  Miss  Brooks  J  captains  a  Pacific 
attack  transport.  With  George  Nader,  Julie 
Adams,   Richard    (Medic)    Boone. 

The  First  Traveling  Saleslady  (RKO, 

Technicolor) :  Light-hearted  comedy  of 
1900.  Career  gal  Ginger  Rogers  is  wooed 
by  Barry  (once  My  Favorite  HusbandJ 
Nelson  and  Jim  (Gunsmoke)  Arness. 

Pardners  (Paramount ;  VistaVision,  Tech- 
nicolor): Fun  for  kids  of  any  age,  as 
Martin  and  Lewis  take  horse  operas  for  a 
ride.  Lori  Nelson,  Jackie  Lough ery  are  the 
girls;   TV's  John  Baragrey,  a  menace. 

Note:  For  brief  reviews 
of  movies  on  TV,  see  page  17. 


Q/\}lo£ Lowe  ueudwto  wtoiLabi? 


The  difference  is  almost  startling 

because  Palmolive  Soft  Shampoo  is  100% 

non-alkaline,  agrees  with  the  normal 
healthy  condition  of  hair  and  scalp. 

Removes  alkaline  film  that  makes 
hair  look  dull  and  lifeless. 

PALMOUV^SHAMPOO 


13 


His  sermon:  Faith  can  cure  you.  "By  the  time  I'm  ready  to 
go  on,  my  mind  is  razor-sharp  .  .  .  and  I'm  feeling  like  a  lion." 


R    Sick  and  maimed  line  up  to  be  touched  by  Roberts'  "healing 
right  arm."  Some  praying  at  home  say  they  too  were  cured. 

14 


His  followers  call  him  "God's  man  for  this 
hour."  His  critics  charge  him  with  being  a 
super-salesman  of  religion.  .  .  .  "God  heals,  I 
don't,"  Oral  Roberts  answers  to  the  first.  "When  God 
gives  me  the  power,  I  can  transmit  His  healing  to 
those  who  have  faith."  But  the  thirty-eight-year-old 
Pentecostal  Holiness  preacher  has  a  "healing  right 
arm."  In  a  revival  tent  or  over  radio  and  tele- 
vision, his  supercharged  sermons  have  ended  with 
cripples  throwing  away  their  crutches  and  braces 
and  with  victims  of  cancer,  epilepsy  and  polio  mar- 
velously  recovered  through  the  "faith  that  cures" 
and  the  "laying  on  of  hands"  by  Brother  Roberts. . . . 
To  his  critics,  Oral  Roberts  insists  that  religion  can 
be  sold  like  other  "products,"  but  he  denies  that  he 
has  made  it  "big  business."  He  is  not  in  conflict 
with  the  organized  churches,  he  says,  nor  is  he  in 
conflict  with  medicine.  .  .  .  Says  evangelist  Roberts: 
"We  estimate  that  we  are  winning  a  soul  for  Christ 
with  each  two  dollars  we  spend.  Our  goal  is  a  million 
souls  a  year  for  the  next  ten  years."  He  believes 
in  his  "product,"  a  religion  of  love  and  not  of  brim- 
stone, and  offers  a  money -back  guarantee  on  all 
donations.  .  .  .  "If  Christ  were  alive  today,"  he  says, 
"He  would  use  the  best  means  of  communication." 
In  his  own  ministry,  Oral  Roberts  uses  close  to  six 
hundred  radio  and  television  stations,  the  largest 
tent  of  its  kind  for  revival  campaigns,  a  monthly, 
million  circulation  magazine,  Abundant  Life,  and  a 
steady  flow  of  books — all  under  the  aegis  of  Healing 
Waters,  an  organization  located  in  a  "City  of  Faith" 
near  Tulsa,  Oklahoma.  Named  for  a  hymn  (Roberts 
uses  faith  not  water) ,  Healing  Waters  operates  with 
a  yearly  budget  of  close  to  four-million  donated 


Oral  Roberts  has  made 
his   life   a  strident   cry  for 
the  i(faith  that  cures'" 


dollars.  .  .  .  Oral  Roberts'  own  life  is  a  testimony 
to  the  "faith  that  cures."  At  seventeen,  he  was  a 
victim  of  tuberculosis  and  had  been  a  stutterer 
since  childhood.  At  the  time,  he  lived  with  his 
parents  near  Ada,  Oklahoma.  His  father  was  a 
preacher  and  Oral,  the  youngest  of  five  children, 
was  being  taken  to  a  revival  meeting.  As  he  lay 
on  a  mattress  in  the  back  of  a  car,  Oral  claims  he 
received  a  message  from  God:  "Son,  I  am  going  to 
heal  you,  and  you  are  to  take  My  healing  power  to 
your  generation."  .  .  .  Within  two  months,  he  became 
a  preacher  and  a  fluent  speaker.  Later,  when  he 
married,  he  and  his  wife  Evelyn,  a  former  Texas 
schoolteacher,  were  a  revival  team.  Oral  would 
warm  up  the  audience  with  his  guitar.  He  still 
likes  to  play.  .  .  .  Mrs.  Roberts  now  devotes  most 
of  her  time  to  their  four  children:  Rebecca,  16; 
Ronald,  12;  Richard,  8;  and  Roberta,  6.  They  live 
fourteen  miles  south  of  Tulsa,  on  a  240-acre  farm, 
Robin  Hood,  where  Oral  raises  Aberdeen  Angus 
cattle.  .  .  .  Oral  Roberts'  "cures"  do  not  always 
come  at  will.  "When  I  have  the  power,"  he  says,  "I 
can  feel  it  surging  through  my  right  hand."  Oral 
Roberts  stands  six-foot-one,  weighs  195  pounds, 
generally  loses  five  of  them  during  a  campaign.  His 
dark  hair  falls  over  his  forehead,  his  eyes  flash,  and 
his  hands  punctuate  the  sermon  that  rushes  from 
him  in  a  fervor  that  often  moves  an  audience  to 
near-hysteria.  When  he  shouts  to  his  audience, 
"Put  up  your  hands  and  tell  Him  how  much  you 
love  Him" — every  hand  in  the  "Cathedral  Tent" 
goes  up.  In  a  rising  tide  of  emotion,  the  gesture 
of  faith  is  repeated  before  countless  radio  speakers 
and  television  screens  from  coast  to  coast. 


My  pulpit  is  the  earth,"  says  Oral  Roberts.  He  traveled  to 
the  Holy  Land  to  film  the  Christmas  story  near  Bethlehem. 


During  the  prayer  for  the  sick,  "Brother  Roberts"  sometimes 
stops  the  procession  to  pray  for  the  television  audience. 


The  Roberts:  Rebecca,  Evelyn,   Roberta,   Roland,   Richard 
and   Oral,   who    plays   the   guitar   as   well    as   the    piano. 


15 


An  eye-witness  to  history,   WABC-TV's 
Cecil  Brown  reports  the 
headlines — and  sometimes  makes  them 


As  a  lad,  Cecil  Brown  wanted  to  write  novels. 
Trouble  was,  he  couldn't  think  of  any  plots.   Then 
Earl  Biggers,  author  of  the  Charlie  Chan  stories, 
suggested  travel.   This  sounded  like  adventure  calling, 
and  Cecil  accepted  Biggers'  suggestion  with  an  alacrity 
that  would  certainly  have  flustered  Charlie  Chan's 
Oriental  calm.  .  .  .  Born  in  Pennsylvania,  raised  in  Ohio, 
Cecil  was  covering  the  police  and  court  beats  for  a 
Youngstown  newspaper,  and  gradually  coming  to  the 
realization  that  he  had  a  Missourian  streak.    He 
wanted  to  be  shown,  and  to  see  the  news  at  first  hand. 
A  canoe  trip  down  the   Ohio  River,  a  stowaway 
journey  to  South  America,  and  an  able-bodied  seaman 
stint  to  Russia  and  west  Africa  solved  the  problem 
of  plots.  .  .  .  Before,  during  and  since  World  War  II,  he 
has  dodged  bullets,  bombs — and  censors.    After  a 
series  of  mishaps,  including  being  aboard  the  battle- 
ship Repulse  when  it  was  sunk  off  Singapore,  he  wired 
his  wife  Martha:    "The  Air  Force  crashed  me,  the 
Army  took  me  over  the  hill,  the  Navy  tried  to  sink  me. 
Since    no    additional    branches    of    the    Armed 
Forces  remain,   don't  worry.    I'll  be  home   safe   and 
sound."  .  .  .  Continuing  his  Mutual  radio  newscasts, 
Cecil  made  his  video  debut  this  year  with  Cecil  Brown 
And  The  News,  seen  weekdays  at  11  P.M.  on  New 
York's  Station  WABC-TV.   Before  going  on  TV,  Cecil 
gave  it  much  thought,  concluded  with  a  goal  of 
"avoiding  trivia  and  relating  the  news  to  the  lives  of 
the  people."   Cecil's  special  knack:   A  pungent  editorial 
judgment  that  sums  up  a  news  event  in  twenty 
seconds.  .  .  .  On  a  more  personal  note,  Cecil  Brown 
can  sum  up  his  life  by  a  tour  of  his  apartment.   Firstly, 
there  is  Martha,  grown  tall  and  patrician  since,  as  a 
teenager,  she  used  to  poke  her  head  out  the  door  and 
"giggle"  at  Cecil.    "He's  the  first  boy  I  ever  kissed," 
she  says.     "I  chased  him  to  Rome  and  married  him 
there."     They've  been  married   eighteen  years   and 
Martha  has  gone  along  on  almost  all  of  his  trips.  .  .  . 
There  is  a  painting  by  Madame  Chiang  Kai-Shek, 
an  ivory  junk  from  Rangoon,  a  1729  grandfather's  clock 
Cecil  often  uses  to  time  his  scripts.  .  .  .  "My  life  is  my 
job,"  Cecil  Brown  says.  "Too  many  people  just  go 
through  the  motions  of  working — at  jobs  they  don't  like." 


v      Always   a   team,    Cecil   and    Martha 
n      catalog   his    10,000  overseas   photos. 


Print  of  the  Repulse   going   down   (he         Their  apartment,  filled  with  treasures, 
was  aboard)   recalls  a  dramatic  story.         faces  Modern  and  Whitney  Museums. 


16 


MOVIES  on  TV 

SHOWING   THIS   MONTH 


For  your  convenience  in  selecting  your 
favorite  movies  from  those  shown  on 
your  TV  screen  in  October,  we  give  you 
these  capsule  reviews.  This  will  be  a 
continuing  feature  in  TV  Radio  Mirror. 

Reviews : 

ACTION  IN  THE  NORTH  ATLANTIC 

(Warners)  :  Exciting  tribute  to  the  heroism 
of  the  World  War  II  Merchant  Marine, 
with  Raymond  Massey  as  captain,  Humph- 
rey Bogart  as  mate  on  hazardous  convoy 
duty. 

BORDERTOWN  (Warners)  :  Memorable 
performances  by  Bette  Davis  and  Paul 
Muni.  Bette's  a  murderess  driven  insane 
by  her  guilt;  Paul,  a  Mexican- American 
lawyer   involved  in   Bette's  tangled   affairs. 

BRINGING  UP  BABY  (RKO) :  Off  on  a 
farcical  fling,  with  heiress  Katharine  Hep- 
burn chasing  shy  scientist  Cary  Grant.  A 
stray  leopard  (and  Katie's  pretty  legs)  add 
to  the  happy  confusion. 

CHAMPION,  THE  (U.A.)  :  Kirk  Doug- 
las's first  big  hit.  In  a  bitter  prize-ring 
expose,  he  tramples  on  brother  Arthur  Ken- 
nedy, manager  Paul  Stewart  and  sweetheart 
Ruth  Roman  as  he  lunges  toward  the  top. 

CHRISTOPHER  COLUMBUS  (Rank, 
U-I)  :  Dignified,  spectacular  British-made 
version  of  the  great  explorer's  life,  with 
Fredric  March  as  Chris  and  Florence  El- 
dridge  (Mrs.  March)  as  Queen  Isabella. 

COURT  MARTIAL  (Kingsley  Interna- 
tional) :  Tense  English  drama  centers  on 
officer  David  Niven's  trial  for  theft.  Selfish 
wife  Margaret  Leighton  betrays  him ;  a 
woman-soldier  friend  stands  by  him. 

CRY   THE   BELOVED   COUNTRY 

(U.A.)  :  Strong  story  of  tragic  South  Africa, 
shot  there.  Two  Negro  ministers  (Sidney 
Poitier,  the  late  Canada  Lee)  seek  the  old- 
er  man's   slum-corrupted   son. 

FALLEN  SPARROW,  THE  (RKO): 
Echoes  of  the  Spanish  civil  war  and  the 
Nazi  threat  strike  a  chilling  note.  The  late 
John  Garfield  scores  as  a  victim;  Maureen 
O'Hara's  a  beautiful  mystery  woman. 

FARMER'S  DAUGHTER,  THE  (RKO) : 
Pleasant  political  comedy  casts  charming 
Loretta  Young  as  a  Midwestern  maid-ser- 
vant who  runs  for  Congress,  romances 
Joseph   Cotten.  With   Ethel   Barrymore. 

HOME  OF  THE  BRAVE  (U.A.) :  Pow 
erful  study  of  race  prejudice.  James  Ed- 
wards is  a  Negro  GI;  Lloyd  Bridges  and 
Frank  Lovejoy,  fellow  soldiers  on  a  danger- 
ous Pacific-island  mission. 

JUNE  BRIDE  (Warners)  :  Robert  Mont- 
gomery and  Bette  Davis  team  delightfully 
in  a  comedy  about  warring  ex-sweethearts 
who  disrupt  a  small-town  family  by  doing 
a   magazine   story   on    daughter's   wedding. 

LADIES    IN    RETIREMENT     (Colum 

bia)  :  Grim,  splendidly  acted  suspense  film, 

with  Ida  Lupino  as  an  English  companion 

(Continued  on  page  19) 


HOLLYWOOD  DISCOVERY! 
A  non-drying  spray-set 


^t^c^M- 


'  uj> 


m 


I 


"Lustre-Net  always  keeps 

my  hair  in  place!" 

says  JANE  POWELL, 

starring  in 

"THE  GIRL 
MOST  LIKELY" 

An  RKO-Radio  Picture. 
Print  by  Technicolor. 


fy**^. 


New  SUPER-SOFT 


Lusbit-fJet 


the  spray-set  with  lanolin  esters! 


Keeps  hair  in  place  the  Hollywood  way — 
without  stiffness  or  stickiness,  contains 
no  lacquer.  Leaves  hair  soft,  shining! 
Actually  helps  prevent  dryness — helps 
preserve  softness  with  lanolin  esters! 
Quick-sets  pin-curls  in  damp  or 
dry  hair  .  .  .  ends  sleeping 
on  pins ! 

Any  pin-curl  style 
sets  faster,  manages 
easier,  lasts  longer! 


THERE  ARE 


LUSTRE-NETS 


recommended  by  Top  Hollywood  Movie  Stars 


SUPER-SOFT — gentle  control  for 

loose,  casual  hair-do's.  Spray 

on  after  combing. 

REGULAR — extra  control  for  hard-to- 

manage  hair,  or  curly  hair-do's. 

SVi  oz. — a  full  ounce  more  .  .  .  Only 
$1.25  plus  tax.  By  the  makers  of 
Lustre-Creme  Shampoo 


17 


it-  W  f= 


hionabl 


The  silver  lining  on  WRCV-TV's  weather 

cloud  is  lovely  Judy  Lee — forecaster 

"Windoiv-shopper"  and  model  wife 


Judy  puts  her  modeling  background  to  good  use  as  she 
presents  news  from  both  the  weather  and  fashion  fronts. 


18 


She's  a  gourmet  cook,  but  Craig,  husband  Charles,  Jane, 
James  and  Vicki  sometimes  want  just  meat  and  potatoes. 


Looks  are  secondary  on  TV,  says  Judy  Lee,  who  places 
voice,  diction  and  poise  first — and  combines  them  all. 


There's  not  much  anybody  can  do  about  the 
weather— but    Philadelphia's    Station    WRCV-TV 
has  done  it.     First,  they  hired  a  forecaster  as  pretty 
and  rare  as  a  day  in  June.     Then  they  gave  her  a 
new  and  exotic  gown  to  model  each  night.     The 
package,  Judy  Lee  And  The  Weather,  is  delivered 
each  weekday  at  11:15  P.M.     In  just  five  minutes, 
la  Lee  delivers  a  detailed  weathercast,  slips  in  a 
commercial,  and  models  the  latest  gown — all  with  the 
grace  and  charm  of  a  hostess  who  has  all  evening 
to  spend  with  her  guests.  .  .  .  Women  like  to  see 
the   scrumptious   clothes,   men   just   like   to   see — 
and  neither  would  guess  that  the  eyeful  who  greets 
them  is,  in  reality,  the  mother  of  four!     What's 
more,  she  can  cook  in  almost  any  language,  although 
when  husband  Charles,  son  Craig,  twins  Jane  and 
James,  and  daughter  Vicki  go  sour  on  sauces,  Judy 
will  fill  their  request  for  just  plain  meat  and 
potatoes.  ...  A  native  Philadelphian,  Judy  attended 
the  Transfiguration  School  and  West  Philadelphia 
High  School.    There's  nary  a  show-business  skeleton 
in  her  family  closet.     Her  mother  took  Judy  to  an 
audition  for  Philadelphia's  famous  Children's  Hour 
program.     Judy  went  on  to  win  the  "Best 
Philadelphia  Model"  title,  do  a  chorus  stint,  then 
turn  down  movie  offers  for  marriage  to  Charles  Lee, 
former  literary  editor  of  the  now  defunct 
Philadelphia   Record   and   currently   English    and 
Journalism  lecturer  at  the  University  of 
Pennsylvania.     In  1952,  they  teamed  up  to  talk  about 
books,  movies  and  theater  on  Charles  And  Judy 
Lee  At  Home,  a  summer  fill-in  program  on  WRCV- 
TV.     Judy  then  became   the  pretty  miss  who  popped 
into  commercial  breaks  on  Hollywood  Playhouse. 
She  did  other  commercials  and,  last  season,  in 
addition  to  her  weathercasts,  also  starred  in  Window, 
a  daily   five-minute   shopping-by-TV   program 
which  may  be  back  by  the  time  you  read  this.  .  .  . 
Aside  from  culling  new  recipes  from  her  150  cook- 
books, Judy  likes  to  spend  whatever  time  she  can 
spare  from  the  homestead  and  the  studio  working 
for  the  League  of  Women  Voters.  .  .  .  Looks,  she 
says,  come  second.     Good  voice,   diction  and  poise 
come  first  in  TV.    Judy  Lee  easily  fills  both  bills. 


MOVIES  on  TV 

SHOWING  THIS  MONTH 

(Continued  from  page  17) 


who  resorts  to  murder  to  protect  her  half- 
mad  sisters.  Suave  Louis  Hayward  finds  her 
out. 

LITTLE  CAESAR  (Warners)  :  Violence 
and  humor  mix  in  Edward  G.  Robinson's 
classic  portrayal  of  a  big-shot  gangster's 
rise  and  fall.  Doug  Fairbanks,  Jr.,  is  a 
good-bad  guy:   Glenda  Farrell  his  sweetie. 

NO  MINOR  VICES  (M-G-M) :  Wacky, 
sophisticated  comedy.  Artist  Louis  Jourdan 
slyly  sets  about  breaking  up  the  marriage 
of  his  doctor.  Dana  Andrews  and  Lilli 
Palmer  are  the  confused  couple. 

NOTORIOUS  (RKO)  :  In  a  dandy  Hitch- 
cock thriller,  Cary  Grant  and  Ingrid  Berg- 
man play  the  Nazi-American  spy  game  in 
Brazil.  With  that  famous  "butterfly  kiss" 
scene! 

ONE  FOOT  IN  HEAVEN  (Warners): 
Warmth,  wit  and  inspirational  qualities 
combine  as  minister  Fredric  March  tries  to 
do  his  duties,  raise  his  family  (with  wife 
Martha  Scott)    and  make  ends  meet. 

ONE  TOUCH  OF  VENUS    (U-I):   Ava 

Gardner's  cast  to  type  as  the  Goddess  of 
Love  come  to  earth,  captivating  depart- 
ment-store employee  Dick  Haymes.  A  few 
songs:  wry  comedy  by  Eve  Arden. 

PARADINE  CASE,  THE  (Selznick) : 
Another  Hitchcock  special.  Lawyer  Gregory 
Peck's  defense  of  accused  murderess  Valli 
affects  his  marriage  to  Ann  Todd.  With 
Charles  Laughton,  other  top-flight  players. 

PETRIFIED  FOREST,  THE  (Warners)  : 
A  thoughtful  melodrama  finds  bandit 
Humphrey  Bogart  terrorizing  a  chance-met 
group  in  a  Western  hash-house,  including 
waitress  Bette  Davis,  intellectual  Leslie 
Howard. 

SENATOR   WAS   INDISCREET,   THE 

(U-I)  :  Timely  farce  kidding  politics.  As  a 
lovable  stuffed  shirt,  William  Powell  makes 
his  pitch  for  the  Presidency,  aided  by  pub- 
licity man  Peter  Lind  Hayes. 

STORY   OF   LOUIS    PASTEUR,    THE 

(Warners)  :  Gripping  saga  of  a  medical 
pioneer,  with  Paul  Muni  as  the  great 
Frenchman  who  fought  entrenched  preju- 
dice and  stupidity  to  save  countless  lives 
with   his   discoveries. 

TOM,  DICK  AND  HARRY  (RKO) :  En 
chanting  fantasy-romance.  Working  girl 
Ginger  Rogers  daydreams  about  her  beaus: 
Idealist  Burgess  Meredith,  go-getter  George 
Murphy,  millionaire  Alan  Marshal. 

TOMORROW  IS  FOREVER  (RKO): 
Touching  drama  of  two  wars.  Reported  lost 
in  1917,  Orson  Welles  returns  incognito  to 
see  wife  Claudette  Colbert.  The  child  Nata- 
lie Wood  is  a  sad  World  War  II  refugee. 

WHAT  A  WOMAN  (Columbia):  Roz 
Russell  has  a  fine  time  with  her  old  career- 
gal  bit.  As  a  Hollywood  agent,  she  chooses 
between  magazine  writer  Brian  Aherne  and 
professor-noveh'st  Willard   Parker. 


Treat  your  m  eyes  to       ~.      ml  ^^    m 


new. . . 


in  5  lovely,  iridescent,  jewel- tone  shades 

Sapphire  Blue  -k  Amber  Brown  -h  Emerald  Green  +  Blue  Pearl  Grey  *  Turquoise 

Beautiful  Gold-Tone  Swivel  Case 

Fashion  dictates  that  your  eyes  should  be  your  most  important 
feature — and  you  can  bring  out  the  color  and  clear  look  of  your  eyes 
by  giving  them  a  flattering  background  of  eye  shadow.  It's  so  easy 

with  the  new  Maybelline  Eye  Shadow  Stick.  The  shadow  can  be  the 
merest  whisper,  if  you  so  desire — but  if  you  wish  a  more  dramatic 
effect,  especially  for  evening  wear,  simply  intensify  the  color. 

Maybelline  Automatic  Eyebrow  Pencil  ^ 

Never  needs  sharpening — the  only  spring-locked  crayon  that 
can't  fall  out — gives  soft  feather-touch.  Natural-tone  shades: 
Velvet  Black,  Dark  Brown,  Light  Brown,  Dove  Grey 

or  Auburn.  Exquisite  turquoise  and  gold-tone  case. 
39(  for  two  long-lasting  refills 

Maybelline  Solid  or  Cream  Mascara 

The  finest  and  smoothest  mascara  for  long,  velvety-dark 
lashes  in  seconds.  Solid  Form  in  gorgeous  gold-tone 

vanity  case  ...  or  Cream  Form  in  smart  carry-kit. 

Maybelline  Professional  Eyelash  Curler 

Special  soft-cushion  method  works  gentler,  quicker, 
easier.  Gold-tone.  It's  the  finest  precision' 
curler  made.  Cushion  Refill,  only  100. 

Maybelline  Precision  Eyebrow  Tweezers    29d 

Tweeze  with  ease— these  silvery  tweezers  are  designed  with 
the  "grip  that  can't  slip."  Straight  or  slant-edge. 

Choice  of  smart  women  the  world  over 


19 


BEAUTY  IS  HIS  BUSINESS 


Don't  overdo,  says  Dick,  who  urges  short 
coifs  for  women  past  the  pony-tail  age. 


Ostrid   says  she'd   be   glad   to   take   his 
beauty  advice.    Dick's  comment:  None. 


20 


Miss   Lind    and    Mr.   Willis   talk   shopping,    frankly    praise   or    spoof   the 
fashions.     Their  joint  advice:   "Good   taste   is   knowing   when   to   stop." 


Richard  Willis  has  made  a  career  of  gilding  the  lily — and  has  thus 
become  responsible  for  more  flowery  tributes — both  literal  and 
complimentary — than  any  other  man  about  New  York.   He's  also 
become  a  husband's,  or  a  beau's,  best  friend,  for  Dick  can  tell  women- 
folk what  other  men  would  like  to,  but  don't  dare!  .  .  .  But  it's  the 
ladies  who  interest  Dick — and  vice  versa.    Dick  offers  them 
astute  advice  on  matters  of  facial  make-up,  coiffure  and  dress,  each 
weekday  at  2  P.M.  on  The  Richard  Willis  Show,  seen  on  New 
York's  Station  WRCA-TV.   A  sense  of  humor — and  a  sensitivity  to 
human  foibles — makes  the  advice  easy  to  take,  for  viewers  or  for  the 
three  women  whose  beauty  problems  Dick  analyzes  on  each  program. 
When  it's  time  for  his  shopping  tips,  Dick  gets  an  assist  from  Miss 
Lind,  who  also  stars  on  the  Windows  shopping  program  and  who  is 
Dick's  wife  Ostrid  off-camera.  .  .  .  Born  in  Baltimore,  Dick  was  early 
smitten  by  the  theater.   By  the  time  he  was  fifteen,  he  was  appearing 
in  motion  pictures,  then  went  on  to  vaudeville  for  two  years,  and 
to  such  Broadway  successes  as  "Hit  the  Deck,"  "Garrick  Gaieties," 
"Lady  Be  Good"  and  "Kid  Boots."    Back  in  Hollywood,  Dick 
pinch-hit  when  extra  make-up  help  was  needed.   He  was  soon  giving 
his  full  attention  to  beautifying  the  stars,  has  also  helped  presidents 
and  other  politicos  to  make  up  for  the  newsreel  or  TV  cameras. 
A  top  make-up  consultant  for  the  major  film  studios  for  more  than 
ten  years,  he  began  his  radio  and  television  career  sixteen  years 
ago.  ...  At  times  he  was  doing  as  many  as  sixteen  shows  a  week, 
but,  as  Dick  says,  "I've  always  worked  very  hard.    I  don't  know  how 
to  relax  particularly."   Thus,  he  also  tours  the  women's  clubs,  once 
contributed  time  teaching  at  New  York's  Neighborhood  Playhouse,  his 
star  pupil  being  the  girl  he  married.    Ostrid,  who  sang  in  "Annie 
Get  Your  Gun"  on  Broadway,  and  then  in  swank  supper  clubs,  still 
contributes  a  weekly  song  as  her  husband's  TV  partner.  .  .  .  The 
Willises  are  avid  interior  decorators,  either  at  their  East  End  Avenue 
apartment  or  their  weekend  retreat  in  Connecticut.    Dick  likes  to 
re-frame  pictures,   is  proud   of  his   valuable   collection   of  antique 
glass  lamp  shades.   His  favorite  period  is  early  Victorian,  "before 
it  got  too  ornate."    Whether  he's  decorating  a  woman  or  a 
house,  Dick  Willis's  maxim  is  "Don't  overdo  it."    To  which  viewers 
might  rr-—  o-irl  with  an  old  Willis  show  ft1?:    "F^r^'s  looking  at  you." 


1 


T 


w 


A    GENTLE,  FRAGRANT    SPRAY    THAT    HOLDS    HAIR 
SOFTLY,    BEAUTIFULLY    IN    PLACE     FOR    HOURS 

Breck  Hair  Set  Mist  is  a  fragrant  spray  which  delicately  holds  your  hair  softly  in 
place  for  hours.  After  combing,  a  few  brief  sprays  keep  the  hair  beautifully  arranged. 

When  freshening,  a  damp  comb  renews  your  waves  -  no  respraying  is  necessary. 

Breck  Hair  Set  Mist  also  provides  a  quick,  easy  way  to  make  lasting  pin  curls. 

Fragrant  as  a  bouquet,  Breck  Hair  Set  Mist  contains  lanolin,  which  leaves  the  hair 
soft   to   touch   and   brings   out   the   natural   lustre   and    beauty   of   your   hair. 


B 


G>0 eaut ifu I  c7Xa ir 

RE        C 


K 


Available  at  Beauty  Shops,  Drug  Stores,  Department  Stores  and  wherever  cosmetics  are  sold.     4y?oz.  $1.25;     11  oz.  $2.00.   Plus  tax. 


lomeu 


oaOKt: 


...and  you  can  prove  it  with  a  Palmolive  bar! 


% 


■//m^  '  rfatrf  Mild  and  Gentle 

Palmolive  Care  Cleans  Deeper  ! 


/  Hidden  dirt  is  a  beauty 
thief!  After  ordinary, 
casual  cleansing  with  your 
regular  soap  or  face  cream,  rub 
your  face  hard  with  a  cotton 
pad.  Smudge  on  pad  is  hidden 
dirt  you've  left  behind.  It  hides 
your  natural  prettiness! 


/^    Beautifully  clean  after 
™  *  60-second   Palmolive 

facial !  Test  again  after  wash- 
ing the  Palmolive  way.  Pad 
stays  snowy-white  .  .  .  proving 
that  mild  and  gentle  Palmolive 
care  cleans  cleaner,  deeper  .  .  . 
without  irritation! 


N 


ew  complexion  beauty  in  just  one  minute?  Yes,  fair  lady,  yes!  Because  Palmolive  care  removes 
beauty-robbing  hidden  dirt  that  casual  cleansing  misses.  And  only  a  soap  as  mild  as  Palmolive  can  cleanse  so 
deeply  without  irritation.  Start  Palmolive  care  today,  and  see  your  true  complexion  beauty  come  through! 


ERNIE  FORD&  CO. 

Tennessee's  singing  philosopher  says  it's  the  little  apples  that  keep  the  big  ones  on  top ! 


Regulars  on  his  daytime  show  are  anything  but  "little"  apples  in  Ernie's  eyes. 
Left  to  right,  Jack  Fascinato  (also  music  director  of  the  Ford  Thursday-night 
show),  Skip  Farrell,   Doris  Drew,   Ernie  himself,   Molly  Bee,  and   Dick  Williams. 


By  BUD  GOODE 


I 


t's  been  a  great  year  for  Tennessee  Ernie  Ford  and 
company!  By  the  end  of  1955,  the  captivatin'  pea- 
picker  had  celebrated  the  first  anniversary  of  his 
highly  successful  Tennessee  Ernie  Ford  Show,  as  seen 
daily  over  NBC-TV.  He'd  zoomed  to  record  heights 
with  his  song,  "Sixteen  Tons."  Ernie  was  red-hot  in 
show  business.  ...  To  all  this,  in  the  fall  of  '56,  he  has 


just  added  The  Ernie  Ford  Show,  Thursday  nights  on 
NBC-TV,  for  the  Ford  (no  relation  to  Ernie)  Motor 
Company.  As  his  wife,  Betty  Ford  (definitely  related 
to  Ernie  by  marriage),  says  succinctly,  "I've  always 
told  Ernie  that  his  last  name  makes  him  the  greatest 
Ford  commercial  on  two  legs.  The  new  show  has  made 
it  come  true."  Today,  he's  definitely  a  white-hot  enter- 


See  Next  Pagem 


23 


Heaven  on  earth  for  Ernie:  Home  with  his  wife,  Betty  .  .  . 
their  sons,  Buck,  7,  and  Brion,  3l/2  .  .  .  and  "Bubbles,"  the 
family  pet  who  inspired  a  get-even  gift  which  backfired! 


The  Tennessee  Ernie  Ford  Show,  with  Molly  Bee  and  Doris  Drew 
(see  following  pages),  is  seen  on  NBC-TV,  M-F,  2:30  P.M.  EDT, 
under  multiple  sponsorship.  The  Ford  Show,  NBC-TV,  Thursday, 
at  9:30  P.M.  EDT,  is  sponsored  by  the  Ford  Dealers  of  America. 


ERNIE  FORD  &  CO. 

(Continued) 


tainment  personality.  .  .  .  But,  no  matter  how  high 
his  success  may  carry  him  along  TV's  celestial  air- 
ways, Ernie's  feet  will  never  leave  the  ground.  His 
own  humble  attitude  toward  his  present  achieve- 
ments is  summed  up  in  a  typical  "Ernie-ism."  Says 
the  former  farm-boy  from  Tennessee:  "The  reason 
the  big  apples  are  at  the  top  of  the  barrel  is  because 
there  are  a  lot  of  little  apples  keepin'  'em  up  there." 

Ernie's  down-to-earth  philosophy  is  a  reflection  of 
his  early  life.  Born  Ernest  Jennings  Ford,  August  13, 
1919,  on  a  farm  near  Bristol,  Tennessee,  he  was 
"raised  up"  on  a  diet  of  horse  sense  and  the  teachings 
of  the  Good  Book — hard  work  was  its  own  reward 
and  happy  times  were  thought  of  in  terms  of  'possum 
hunts,  roast  corn  and  catfish  fries.  His  favorite  food 
is  still  fried  catfish. 

Ernie  got  into  television  by  way  of  radio  in  1938. 
"I  had  a  teacher  back  in  Bristol  who  thought  I  could 
read  right  well,"  he  says.  "Her  husband  worked  for 
radio  station  WOPI  and  she  persuaded  me  to  audi- 
tion for  an  announcer's  job."  At  the  time,  it  was 
fashionable  for  radio  announcers  to  study  singing  as 
a  form  of  voice  improvement,  and  Ernie  left  Bristol 
to  study  at  the  Cincinnati  Conservatory  of  Music. 
His  father,  by  then  a  Bristol  postal  clerk,  helped 
Ernie  pay  the  expenses.  "Lean  years,"  Ernie  re- 
members. "We  used  to  eat  at  the  Horn  Inn — cheese- 
burgers and  root  beer,  IS*1." 

On  a  vacation  home,  Ernie  received  a  telegram 
inviting  him  to  come  to  Station  WATL,  Atlanta,  as 
staff  announcer.  The  pay  was  $21.50  a  week.  Says 
Ernie,  still  loyal  to  the  South,  "Not  much  money, 
but  there  were  other  advantages.  You  could  stand 
on  Peachtree  Street  and  watch  coveys  of  pretty  girls 
go  by."  His  first  job  at  the  station:  Interviewing 
Georgia  beauty-contest  winners. 

Working  in  Atlanta,  Ernie  made  friends  with  one 
of  the  radio  engineers.  The  two  of  them,  remember- 
ing the  outdoor  days  of  their  boyhood,  spent  the 
weekends  hunting  together.  They  drove  a  dilapi- 
dated 1929  school  bus  and  slept  overnight  in  sleeping 
bags  in  the  aisle.  "We  were  in  the  hills  outside  of 
Atlanta  one  night,"  says  Ernie,  "when  we  stumbled 
onto  a  still.  We  raced  out  of  there  like  a  mule  with 
a  burr  under  its  tail.  I  was  afraid  those  revenuers 
might  be  close  by  and  take  us  for  bootleggers — or 
worse,  to  have  the  bootleggers  come  back  and  take 
us  for  revenuers!" 

At  the  outbreak  of  World  War  II,  Ernie  left  Atlanta 
to  go  to  Station  WROL,  Knoxville.  After  a  short 
time  there,  he  joined  the  Air  Force  as  a  flight  in- 
structor. Ernie  met  his  wife,  Betty,  while  stationed 
in  Victorville,  California.  ("She  was  the  prettiest 
gal  at  the  PX.") 

Though  Ernie  had  left  his  parents'  farm  when  he 
was  fifteen,  the  feeling  for  the  farm  life  hadn't  left 
him.  While  at  Victorville,  he  made  friends  with  a 
nearby  farmer,  and  spent  as  much  time  on  the  farm 
as  possible.  Betty  and  Ernie  were  married  in  1942 
and  later,  when  he  was  discharged  from  the  service, 
they  agreed  that  a  farm  was  a  good  place  to  bring 
up  a  family. 

In  their  secondhand  automobile,  the  Fords  started 
off  for  Alaska,  to  take  advantage  of  the  Govern- 
ment's free -land  offer  under  the  Homestead  Act. 
Ernie  says,  "We  figured  in   (Continued  on  page  93) 


24 


Treasures  in  paradise:  The  pool — adjacent  to  that  all-important  barbecue  .  .  .  the 
"Thunderboard"  which  the  boys  love — though  they  can't  pronounce  it  .  .  .  and 
all  the   Fords  in  a  row — Betty,   Buck,   Brion,   and  that  lucky  guy  -from  Tennessee. 


See  Next 


J+L 


x   > 


•• 


.  «•  • 


»  • 


•  • 


•• 


•  .  -  . 


•  • . -• 


^f' 


... 


'•••..< 


•  • 


v 


•  1  < 


*%Vs« 


From  their  new-style  hammock,  the  Aliens  proudly  survey  the  patio  flooring — done  by  "handyman"  Larry  himself. 


Mama  Doris  and  bossman  Ford  can  count  on  Danny  to 
ham  it  up  as  guest  on  Tennessee  Ernie's  daytime  show! 


By  ELSA  MOLINA 

In  the  first  morning  of  her  summer  vacation, 
Doris   Drew — pert,   hazel-eyed   songstress   on 
Tennessee  Ernie's  daytime  show — hummed 
a  happy  melody  as  she  finished  packing  for  the 
family's   vacation.    Doris,  her  comedian  husband, 
Larry   Allen,   and   their   four-year-old   son,   Danny, 
were  intending  to  beat  the  heat  in  a  desert-spa 
swimming  pool.   Of  all  their  common  interests,  both 
Doris  and  Larry  most  love  to  swim.    "We're 
part  fish,"  says  Doris.    "As  for  Danny — if  we  let 
him,  he'd  stay  in  the  water  until  he  was  as  wrinkled 
as  a  prune."   As  Doris  closed  the  lid  on  the  last 
of  Danny's  swim  trunks,  she  was  happily  looking 
forward  to  fourteen  days  beside  a  cool  blue  pool. 

Then  Larry  poked  his  dark  head  in  the  door  saying, 
"Doris  .  .  ."  with  a  slight  quake  in  his  voice.   No 
matter  how  sad  the   (Continued  on  page  94) 


26 


ERNIE  FORD  &  CO. 


Three  loves  has  Doris  Drew  .  .  .  music  .  .  .  her  husband,  Larry  Allen  .  .  .  and  lively  young  Danny 


Devoted  wife  and  mother,  Doris  spent  all  her  hard-earned 
"vacation"    keeping    Danny   smiling    through    the    mumps. 


Great  cook,  too — though   Larry  didn't  know  it  until  they'd 
moved  into  the  home  they  chose  because  of  its  kitchen  space. 


Doris  and  Larry  dote  on  the  chance  to  be  real  homemakers, 
after  all  the  touring  they  did  when  they  were  first  married. 


They're  both  enthusiastic  gardeners — though  their  son's  only 
contribution   is  digging   up  the   bulbs  they've   just   planted. 


See  Next  Page  m 


27 


All  mothers  are  proud  of  their 
daughters — but  I  can't  help  feeling 
my  Molly  Bee  is  extra-special ! 

By  MRS.  LOU  ADAMS 


.    J 

1 

■  s.- 

: 

\ 

L^H 

n»« 

~7i  r 

£ 

1^  ^i 

-■    ■■-■■■£-■■■  "  *;  ,« 

1 

/ 

Molly  loves  her  guitar,  hopes  practice  with  a  tape 
recorder  will  "make  perfect."  Her  favorite  pastime  is 
dancing — even  informally,  with  her  kid  brother,  Joe, 
while    her    girlfriend,    Beverly,    acts    as    disc    jockey. 


28 


Off  to  work — and  I  live  for  the  moment  she  comes  home! 


When  my  daughter,  Molly  Bee,  was  a  baby,  she  was 
just  as  cute  and  bubbly  as  she  is  now.  In  fact, 
I've  often  wondered  how,  day  after  day,  Molly  can 
continue  to  grow  more  like  herself!   But — as  bouncy 
and  enthusiastic  as  she  is  (I've  called  her  "nighty" 
myself) — Molly  has  another  side  which  the  millions  in 
Tennessee  Ernie's  daytime  audiences  don't  see,  over  NBC- 
TV.  There  are  times  when  Molly  is  quiet  and  subdued. 
And  she  has  a  mind  of  her  own. 

Molly  has  two  brothers,  Bobby  and  Joe.  But  Molly  was 
my  first  little  girl.   Fathers,  I  think,  want  little  boys 
they  can  romp  and  play  with.   Mothers  want  little  girls 
they  can  dress  like  dolls.  That's  how  I  wanted  to  dress 
Molly — like  a  doll..  Molly  had  other  ideas.   Since  her 
brother  Bobby  was  eighteen  months  older,  he  became 
something  of  an  idol — a  hero  she  could  look  up  to.   Molly 
always  wanted  to  copy  Bobby.    Though  I  filled  her 
bedroom  with  dolls,  Molly    (Continued  on  page  84) 

In  addition  to  The  Tennessee  Ernie  Ford  Show,  NBC-TV,  M-F,  2:30  P.M. 
EDT,  Molly  Bee  is  also  seen  and  heard  on  the  West  Coast  in  Cliffie 
Stone's  Hometown  Jamboree,  over  Station  KTLA,  Sat.,  at  7  P.M.  PST. 

ERNIE  FORD  &  CO. 


I' 

V 


■y> 


Once  o  tomboy,  Molly's  now  surrounded  by  dolls.    She  keeps  a  diary,  hides  it  from  her  brothers. 


She  has  her  own  clothes  budget 
but  can  talk  me  out  of  anything 


At  13,  she  said  goodbye  to  braids, 
as   Mr.   Frank  cut  her   long  tresses. 


Like  all  teens,    Molly  and   Beverly  can 
spend  hours  experimenting  with  mirrors. 


Music— and  the  great  outdoors— frame  a  magical  home  for  the  Florian  ZaBachs 


30 


Florian   set  aside   his   prized 
when  the  ZaBachs  built  their 


Guarnerius 
ranch  house  near 


tools    and    trowels, 
Pound  Ridge,  N.  Y. 


By  HELEN  BOLSTAD 


When   holiday   hearth  fires   are   lighted   at   the   Florian 
ZaBach  home  this  year,  the  event  will  be  as  bright 
in  significance  as  it  is  in  cheer.  "For  the  first  time,  I'll 
be  using  my  own  wood,  cut  from  my  own  land — with  my 
own  blisters,"  says  Florian.  His  .pretty  wife,  Helen,   smiles. 
"You'd  think  he  was  a  lumberjack  instead  of  a  fiddler. 
There's  no  'double-stopping'  on  that  attack." 

There  has  been  no  stopping  of  any  kind,  for  either  of 
them,  since  they  purchased  the  land,  supervised  the  build- 
ing of  the  house,  and  moved  in  last  July.  Helen  may  say 
lightly,   "We've  turned   into   the   original   do-it-yourself-ers." 
And  Florian  may  add,  "We've  even  found  out  what  to  do 
about  it  after  you've  done  it  yourself."  But  their  deeper 
thoughts  are  expressed  by  Helen's   (Continued  on  page  66) 

The  Florian  ZaBach  Show,  produced  by  Guild  Films,  is  seen  throughout  the 
United  States  and  in  other  countries:  see  local  papers  for  time  and  station. 


Below,  wife  Helen  supervises  picture-hanging  in  the  living   room. 
Lower  right,  the  snack  bar  which  divides  kitchen  from  dining  area. 


Woods  and  streams — fresh  trout  for  break- 
fast!— lure    Florian    and    "Prince    Florazell." 


Family    "switch":    Florian    at   drums,    Helen 
at  piano — and  her  daughter  Julia  fiddling. 


Sunday  in  England 


■ 


Across  the  Thames,  Big  Ben  and  the  Houses  of  Parliament — and,  in  the  foreground, 
Alastair  (Lord   Henry),   Vivian   (Sunday  herself),   Cathleen   Cordell   (Cora    Harwood). 


"'Our  gal"  Vivian  Smolen  had  a 
wonderful  time  seeing  London  with 
"Lord  Henry"  Alastair  Duncan 


By  LILLA  ANDERSON 


The  heroine  of  Our  Gal  Sunday — herself  an  orphan 
from  Colorado — has  always  dreaded  meeting  the  elegant 
English  friends  of  her  titled  husband,  Lord  Henry 
Brinthrope,  and  feared  that  she  would  "feel  out  of  place"  in 
London.    In  real  life,  however,  Vivian  Smolen — who 
stars  as  Sunday — found  London:    "History  brought  to  life;   a 
fairy  tale  come  true."    Suitably,  her  guide  was  Lord  Henry 
himself  in  the  person  of  her  co-star,  English-born  Alastair 
Duncan,  who  has  since  commented:    "Lady  Brinthrope  was 
utterly  at  home  and  quite  the  social  (Continued  on  page  98) 

Our  Gal  Sunday  is  heard  on  CBS  Radio,  Mon.  thru  Fri.,  at  12:45  P.M.  EDT. 


32 


English  differs  from  American: 
"It's  a  pillar  box,  Vivian,  not 
a  mail  box,"  Alastair  advised. 


Yet  some  things  are  the  same.  To 
Vivian,  London's  Sphinx  was  "just 
like  the  one  back  in  Central  Park." 


And  Piccadilly  Circus  was  the  Times 
Square  of  London — but  the  left-side 
traffic  made  American   heads  whirl. 


R^spr 

• 
) 

>v 

.2$ 

s^lfc£&| 

•        1   / 

1      1 

If     *Hi 

W  i  ■-  jjm  ^EjBM' 

ti  . 

»T|| 

1     II 

I 

— 

r*J 

i  j 

H^^HHBSH 

t^F , 

*            "                   7a.  -  ■.  . 

Colorful  in  scarlet  tunics  and  black  bearskin  busbies,  the 
Scots  Guards  had  just  been  reviewed  by  Her  Majesty.  At  the 
Palace  of  Whitehall  (below),  the  Horse  Guards  stood  sentry. 
"Here's  all  I've  read  about,"  sighed  Vivian,   "come  to  life." 


Alastair  knew  the  signs  that  showed  the  Queen  was 
"at  home"  in  Buckingham  Palace  (above).  However, 
Vivian's  questions,  in  the  Royal  Court  of  St.  James 
(below),   made   him  wish   he'd   studied   more   history! 


The  Spirit  of  Romance 


Two  soaring  careers  mean  frequent  separations  for   Nina  Foch  and  Jim  Lipton — but  cannot  dim  their  love. 

By  CONRAD  MORTON 


The  waitresses  at  the  commissary  on  the  Warner 
Bros,  lot  are  used  to  seeing  stars.  They've  served 
some  of  the  most  gorgeous  women  and  men  in  the 
world,  and  they  just  don't  lose  their  composure — or 
hadn't,  until  this  particular  young  man  sat  down  to 
lunch  with  Edward  G.  Robinson  and  Nina  Foch.  He 
was  handsome,  about  five-ten,  with  green  eyes  and 
dark  brown  hair.  He  had  the  physique  and  aura  about 
him  you  might  associate  with  Montgomery  Clift — but 
it  wasn't  Monty.  This  young  man  was  pretty  much  of 
a  stranger  in  Hollywood.  But,  when  one  of  the  blase 
waitresses    caught    sight    of   him,    she    stood    gaping. 


"Are  you,"  she  asked,  "Dick  Grant?"  Then,  as  he 
smiled  an  affirmative  .  .  .  "Dr.  Dick  Grant?"  When 
the  young  man  nodded  again,  she  gasped,  "Oh,  my. 
Don't  go  away."  And  she  ran  back  to  the  kitchen  to 
pass  the  word  so  that  the  others  could  see  Dr.  Grant 
before  he  finished  dessert.  Dr.  Dick  Grant,  of  course, 
is  the  young  plastic  surgeon  on  The  Guiding  Light, 
over  CBS-TV  and  Radio.  The  young  man  who  causes 
such  excitement  playing  this  part  is  James  Lipton. 
And,  in  his  own  right,  Jim  is  an  unusual  and  exciting 
person.  He  is  very  intelligent  and  especially  thought- 
ful of  others.  He  is  also  sensitive,  serious  and  complex. 


34 


James  Upton  has  it— whether  as 
The  Guiding  Light's  Dr.  Dick  Grant, 
or  as  lovely  Nina  Foch's  husband 


Rewards:  Marriage  has  been  good  for  them  both — Nina 
laughs  him  out  of  his  too-serious,  other-world  moods, 
Jim  has  helped  her  know  her  own  mind  and  speak  out. 


Jim  wears  an  unusual  ring.  It's  a  simple  signet  ring, 
but  instead  of  initials  on  the  flat  top,  there  is  an  arrow 
which  points  away  from  him.  "The  idea  is  to  remind 
me  to  think  objectively,"  Jim  explains.  "To  come  out 
of  my  shell.  For  years,  I  was  kind  of  a  lone  wolf.  I'd 
be  sitting  at  a  dinner  party  or  around  a  coffee  table 
and  I'd  disappear.  Go  off  with  my  mind  into  outer 
space.    I've  changed  in  the   (Continued  on  page  91) 

The  Guiding  Light  is  seen  on  CBS-TV,  M-F,  12:45  P.M.  EDT,  spon- 
soted  by  Procter  &  Gamble  Company  for  Ivory,  Duz,  and  Cheer. 


Wherever  Jim  goes,  everyone  recognizes  Dick 
Grant,  of  TV  and  radio's  The  Guiding  Light. 


=5= 

si 


¥fc       J   % 


Problems:  "We  make  a  conscious  effort,"  says 
Jim,  "to  live  equally  and  share  the  burdens." 


35 


i  f  I  *  .,<■■!        i         •         I 


ii..    if     i     i 


What's  the  secret  about  Garry? 
For  one  thing — Bill  Cullen  will 
tell  you — he  has  a  sixth  sense  .  .  . 


Charm  is  just  one  of  the  words 
Jayne  Meadows  has  for  Garry — 
that  true  "Rock  of  Gibraltar"  .  .  . 


Not  "the  life  of  the  party" — in 
Henry  Morgan's  view — but  some- 
one much  nicer  to  have  around  . .  . 


By  ELIZABETH  BALL 


Each  Wednesday  night  on  I've  Got  A  Secret,  over 
CBS-TV,  Garry  Moore  and  his  panel  of  four 
have  themselves — and  give  the  viewers — a  hilarious 
half  hour.  Five  gayer,  more  relaxed  and  refreshing, 
good-humored,  antic  and  seemingly  congenial  people 
you  could  not  hope  to  find  anywhere  on  the  earth  or 
on  the  air.  They're  so  congenial  that  those  who  doubt 
the  evidence  of  their  eyes  and  ears  have  been  known 
to  voice  such  questions  as:   Are  they  really  as  jolly 


together  off  camera  as  on?  What,  do  you  suppose, 
goes  on  behind  the  scenes?  What,  in  private,  do  panel- 
ists Emerson,  Meadows,  Morgan  and  Cullen  think  of 
ringmaster  Moore?  If  they  could  use  only  one  word 
for  him,  what  would  it  be?  Or  let's  suppose  they  were 
obliged  to  analyze  Garry  Moore  .  .  .  what  would  be 
their  .findings?  .  .  .  Intrigued  by  the  unlikely  idea  of 
the  blithe  and  breezy  Mr.  Moore  as  subject  for  analy- 
sis, the  panel  agreed  to  place  {Continued  on  page  76) 


I've  Got  A  Secret  is  seen  on  CBS-TV,  Wed.,  9:30  P.M.  EDT,  as  sponsored  by  R.  J.  Reynolds  Tobacco  Company  for  Winston  Cigarettes. 
The  Garry  Moore  Show  is  seen  on  CBS-TV,  Mon.  thru  Th.,  10  to  10:30  A.M.  EDT,  Fri.,  10  to  11:30  A.M.,  under  multiple  sponsorship. 


Jealous   is  the   word  for   Bill.   It  seems  that  crew  cut 
makes  Faye  want  to  run  her  hands  through  Garry's  hair! 


Brother's  name  is  Dr.  Mason  Morfit  (left).  Garry  and 
his  family  still  use  "Morfit"  in  their  very  private  life. 


36 


Good,  lovable  and  tenderhearted, 
says  Faye  Emerson — yet  definitely 
not  a   "Caspar   Milquetoast".   .   . 


Mr.  Moore  unwittingly 
jumps  out  of  the  frying  pan 
into  the  fire — of  his  own 
panel  on  I've  Got  A  Secret! 


" 


Such  a  simple  guy,  really — until  they  start  to  analyze  him.  Just  two  things  Cul- 
len,  Meadows,  Morgan  and  Emerson  agree  upon:  Garry's  a  much  deeper  person 
than  he  appears.  And  they  can't  help  liking  him — though  their  reasons  differ. 


Moore   and    Morfit   join    Faye   and 
the   others   for   after-show   gabfest. 


Janet,  happy  in  the  Mayos'  own  penthouse,  beams: 
"We  hardly  knew  what  a  seed  looked  like.  Now  look!" 


Nick  and  Janet  couldn't  be  more  at  home  in  their 
rooftop  garden,  after  living  in  hotels  on  the  road. 


Sid  Caesar,  her  TV  husband,   doesn't  look  quite  so  happy 
here  with  "wife"  Janet.  But  that's  marriage — comedy  version. 


Meeting  of  two  lives:   Mrs.   Mayo,   city-dweller,   studies   her 
lines  as  "Mrs.  Commuter"  for  the  Saturday-eve  Caesar's  Hour. 


By  GREGORY  MERWIN 


There  have  been  spectacular  movies  and  TV  spectaculars. 
Now  meet  a  "gal  spectacular."   She  can  dance  any- 
thing— ballet  to  the  bunny  hop.   She  sings  bop,  ballads 
or  arias.  She  acts,  or  clowns.  She's  five-four,  with  hazel 
eyes — a  strawberry  blonde  with  a  raspberry  personality.  She 
is  Sid  Caesar's  third  TV  wife  .  .  .  privately  Mrs.  Nick  Mayo, 
born  Martha  Janet  Lafferty  .  .  .  but  best  known  as 
Janet  Blair,  star  of  everything  in  show  business  except  opera. 

"A  man  sees  so  many  facets  of  his  wife's  personality 
that  it's  almost  impossible  to   (Continued  on  page  85) 

Caesar's  Hour  is  seen  on  NBC-TV,  three  Sat.  out  of  four,  9  to  10  P.M. 
EDT,  sponsored  by  Esquire  Shoe  Polishes,  Quaker  Oats,  Bab-O,  others. 


CAESAR'S  NEW  "WIFE" 

It's  a  great  TV  act — but,  in  private  life,  Janet  Blair  calls  Nick  Mayo  ''husband" 


II 


a 


like  Gene" 


Thirty  minutes  from  Broadway — and  Tonight  and  the 
Steve  Allen  Show — Gene  shares  a  real  "country-type" 
home  and  lawn  with  Lynn,  Helen,  and  the  family  pets. 


People  love  our  Mr.  Rayburn  on 
Steve  Allen's  show— but  his  most 
devoted  fans  are  his  own  family 

By  MARTIN  COHEN 


Those  who  know  best  prefer  Rayburn  ten  to 
one.    Gene  is  a  gentleman,  sans  push-pull.    He 
exists  in  the  dazzling  delirium  of  TV  without 
pull,  without  being  pushy.   Gene  comes  in  a  king- 
size  package,  measuring  six-feet-one.   He  has 
brown  hair,  brown  eyes  and  brown  shoes.    He's  a 
pixilated  package.   With  him,  the  unexpected  is 
just  what  to  expect.    But  he  doesn't  bite. 
"Married  sixteen  years,"  says  satisfied  customer 
Helen  Rayburn,  "and  he  hasn't  scratched  yet.  I 
wouldn't  use  any  other  product." 

He  is  a  clown,  but  a  gentle  clown.  And  he  works 
hard.   During  the  whole  of  last  winter  he  had 
only  four  days  off.   Currently,  his  regularly 
scheduled  appearances  with  Steve  Allen  alone 
count  up  to  four  nights  a  week  on  the  air — 
Wednesday,  Thursday  and  Friday  on  Tonight,  and 
the  big  variety  show  on  Sunday.   Although  his 
home  is  in  lower  Westchester  County,  thirty 
minutes  from  Manhattan,  his  days  are  so  hectic 
that  he  had  to  take  an  apartment  to  catch  his 
sleep.    This  sometimes  robs  him  of  seeing  his 
family  during  the  week.   Recently,  he  was  stopped 
in  the  foyer  of  his  own  home  by  a  pretty 
brownette.    "Yes,  sir,"  the  girl  said,  "who  shall 

Continued         k 


Barbecue  snack  in  his  own  back  yard  tastes  better 
to  Rayburn  than  those  bachelor  "breakfasts"  in  town. 


40 


■ 


4fE2F 


^i*" 


o 
'o}°.  cwC* 

00  °.  POO 
10  0©' 

■       • 

o  o 


A 


j£^ 


Show-business  life  would  be  lonely  for  Helen — without  a  husband  like  Gene,  a  daughter  like  Lynn! 


41 


Gene  was  "top  chef,"  when  the  Rayburns  were  first 
married,  but  now  Helen  is  the  queen  of  the  kitchen. 


He's  a  real  handyman  around  the  house,  built  many 
units   himself,   turns   out  ornate   rungs   on   his   lathe. 


42 


L 


"a  Guy  like  Gene" 


(Continued) 


I  say  is  calling?"  It  was  Gene's  thirteen-year-old 
daughter,  Lynn.  She  was  kidding,  but  many  a  truth 
is  spoken  in  jest.  More  often  than  not,  Gene  calls  his 
one-room  apartment — just  east  of  Central  Park  in  the 
seventies — "home."  The  only  personal  items  in  the 
room  are  his  clothes,  a  small  radio  and  record-player, 
TV  and  a  cigarette  holder.  Tacked  to  the  walls  are  a 
half-dozen  unframed,  giant-sized  travel  posters.  The 
furniture  is  used-modern.  "It  came  with  the  apart- 
ment," Gene  explains.  "I  don't  like  modern.  I  don't 
mean  anything  personal  by  this,  but  I  think  modern 
rurniture  is  sterile." 

Main  reason  for  the  one-room  apartment  is  that 
almost  nightly  schedule  of  shows  on  which  Gene  is 
"second  banana"  to  "top  banana"  Steve  Allen.  The 
two  are  on  the  air  together  until  one  A.M.  at  least 
three  nights  a  week.  So,  if  Mr.  Rayburn  has  a  call 
at  ten  in  the  morning,  the  only  way  he  gets  a  bit  of 
rest  is  by  staying  in  town.  "You're  beat,  yet  you're  all 
wound  up,"  he  says.  "You  even  have  to  work  at 
unwinding.  I  know  Steve  doesn't  get  to  sleep  until 
four.  I've  got  it  down  to  about  forty-five  minutes. 
Sometimes  I  can  get  to  sleep  by  two." 

He  goes  back  to  a  neat  apartment,  for  Gene  does 
his  own  housekeeping.  His  wife  testifies,  "Gene  is  an 
excellent  housewife."  He  puts  about  an  hour  one 
evening  a  week  into  putting  things  right  and  clean. 
In  the  mornings,  he  stirs  some  cereal  into  milk  and 
calls  it  breakfast.  If  he  wants  something  more  elab- 
orate,   he    phones    out    to    (Continued    on    page    88) 

Gene  Rayburn  is  seen  on  The  Steve  Allen  Show,  on  NBC-TV,  Sun., 
from  8  to  9  P.M.,  as  sponsored  by  Brown  and  Williamson  Tobacco 
Corp.  (Viceroy  Cigarettes),  Andrew  Jergens  Co.  (Jergens  Lotion, 
Woodbury  Soap),  and  others.  He  is  also  seen  Wed.,  Thurs.,  Fri., 
on  Tonight,  over  NBC-TV,  11:30  P.M.  to  1  A.M.  (All  times  EDT) 


Helen    is    used    to   working    side    by    side    with    Gene, 
finds    that    helping    with    his    fan    mail    is    truly    fun. 


They're  a  great  family  for  doing  things  together,  from  sports  to  fine  arts.  Gene  strums  a 
guitar  for  home  songfests,  and  both  Lynn  and  Helen  are  studying  piano.  Lynn  also  draws  very  well, 
with  Dad  as  a  favorite  subject — and  it  was  he  who  made  the  wall-to-wall  vanity  unit  in  her  room. 


tm 


_ 


I 


David's  there  with  Daddy  .  .  .  while  Larry  studies  at  breakfast  .  .  .  listens  to  his  records  .  .  .  and  joins  in  junior  frolics. 


iumph 


Larry  Dean  took  a  gamble  for  the 
sake  of  his  wife  and  baby — and  won 
fame  on  the  Lawrence  Welk  shows 
By  GORDON  BUDGE 


From  first  tryout  to  new  Monday-night  show,   Larry  has 
fulfilled  all  Lawrence  Welk's  hopes  for  the  young  singer. 


Larry  literally  pursues  Alice  and  David  with  his  cam- 
era,  recording  every  step  in   baby's  development. 


The  first  day  Larry  Dean,  Lawrence  Welk's 
handsome  twenty-year-old  vocalist,  joined  the 
Welk  band,  he  stood  around  the  bandstand,  hands 
in  pockets,  bashful  and  shy.  As  with  every  new 
meeting,  there  was  still  distance  between  the  old 
established  bandmen  and  the  new  young  vocalist. 
On  the  faces  of  the  musicians  there  was  a  wait- 
and-see  expression,  and  in  Larry's  mind  there  was 
a  prayerful  thought:  I  hope  Vm  good  enough  for 
them.  .  .  .  But,  after  he'd  run  through  his  first 
song,  the  long-experienced  musicians  were  unani- 
mous in  their  applause.   (Continued  on  page   74) 

Larry  Dean  is  seen  on  the  hour-long  Lawrence  Welk  shows, 
ABC-TV,  Sat.,  9  P.M.,  and  Mon.,  9:30  P.M.,  sponsored  by 
the  Dodge  Dealers  of  America.  Lawrence  Welk  programs  are 
also  heard  over  ABC  Radio,  at  varying  times  in  different 
areas  (see  local  papers),  including  Sat.,  10:35  P.M.,  and 
Best  Bands  In  The  Land,  Mon.,  9:30  P.M.  (All  times  EDT) 


45 


•   *    *   * 


.a *_ 


the  Most  Happy  Little  Girl 


Daily,  Dorothy  Collins  counts  her 
blessings :  Raymond  Scott  and  Debbie, 
their  home — and  Your  Hit  Parade 


Raymond,  Dorothy  and  Debbie  Scott  form  a  joyful  trio, 
indoors  or  outside  their  beautiful  Long   Island  estate. 


By  GLADYS  HALL 


What  are  little  girls  made  of?  We  all  know,  from 
the  old  familiar  jingle:   "Sugar  and  spice 
and  everything  nice."  .  .  .  But — what  are  little 
girls'  lives  made  of?  .  .  .  That  can  be  a  sweet 
refrain,  too:  A  husband  named  Raymond.     A  baby 
called  Debbie.     Hope  of  another  Debbie.     And 
another.     A  thirty-two-room  country  house. 
Diamonds.     Song.     A   peat-moss   bog.     A   hospital. 
Rumors.     Adventures  ...  in  the  air  ...  on  the  air. 
At  Las  Vegas.     In  Red  Rocks,  Colorado.     In  New 
York.  Space  ships.  Disc  jockeys.  A  trip  to  Europe. 
The  first  trip,  breathlessly  exciting.     A  career, 
ever  gi-owing.  .  .  .  These  are  the  ingredients  one 
little  girl's  life  is  made  of.     Or  has  been,  during  the 
past  year. 

The  "one  little  girl"  is  obviously  Your  Hit  Parade's 
singing  star,  Dorothy  Collins  .  .  .  known  to  her 
household  and  her  neighbors  in  North  Hills,  Long 
Island — and  thought  of,  in  her  own  mind  and  heart — 
as  Mrs.  Raymond  Scott.     To  Dorothy,  four  years 
married,  "Everything  revolves  around  Raymond. 
The   house.     Debbie.     The    career.     Me.     Our 
marriage  has  been  such  a  wonderful  thing,"  she  says, 
"basically  wonderful,  in  that  we  are  such  friends. 


See  Next  Page  ^ 


*. 


The  moment  Naka  opens  the  door,  the  Scotts  step  into 
a  world  that  contains  space  for  all  they  love  best  .  .  . 
from  Debbie's  playroom  to  their  own  recording  studio. 


i  [;\ 


the  Most  Happy  Little  Girl 

(Continued) 


Dorothy  Collins  and  Raymond  Scott  are  seen  and  heard  on  Your 
Hit  Parade,  NBC-TV,  Saturdays,  10:30  P.M.  EDT,  sponsored 
by  Lucky  Strike  Cigarettes  and  Hudnut  Quick  Home  Permanent. 


It  gets  better  all  the  time,  too.  A  baby  makes 
it  better.  And  time  .  .  .  each  hour  of  each  day 
of  my  marriage  to  Raymond.  I  couldn't  think 
of  life  without  him"  ...  As  for  Raymond,  you 
have  only  to  look  at  him  when  he  is  looking  at 
little  Miss  Collins  to  know  that  he  couldn't  and 
doesn't  think  of  life  without  her. 

In  a  relationship  as  richly  realized  as  that  of 
the  Scotts,  a  house  is  not  the  most  precious 
thing.  But,  in  terms  of  the  concrete  and  the 
tangible,  a  house — their  house — is  certainly  the 
biggest!  So  let's  start  with  the  house  as  one  of 
the  ingredients  in  the  many-faceted  life  of  two 
profoundly  happy  people. 

The  name  of  Scott  is  on  the  mailbox  at  the 
entrance  to  the  driveway.  The  driveway  winds 
through  the  sun-pierced  shade  of  dogwood 
trees,  magnolia  trees  .  .  .  giant  oak  and  maple 
and  dark  conifers  ...  to  the  house.  A  massive 
house,  and  beautifully  proportioned,  built  (to 
endure)  of  weathered  brick,  faced  with  white, 
many-chimneyed,  many-windowed.  A  classic 
and  gracious  facade  with  the  spreading  skirts 
of  eleven  acres  around  it.  Fields  and  formal 
gardens.  Woodland.  Apple  trees.  A  peat- 
moss bog  covering  approximately  one  of  the 
eleven  acres.  ("If  ever  I  should  decide  to  do 
my  singing  in  the  nursery  at  home,  instead  of 
on  mike,"  Dorothy  observes,  "a  peat-moss  bog 
could  mean  a  lot  of  money.  A  peat-moss  bog 
as  a  business — now  that  would  be  glamorous! 
But,"  she  adds  reflectively,  "substantial.  For, 
unlike  a  song,  peat  moss  never  comes  to  an 
end.  The  more  you  take  out,  the  more  there 
is.  It  is  never-ending.  Eternal.  Of  what  else, 
as  a  means  of  security,  can  you  say  the  same?") 

By  now,  you  have  arrived  at  the  door.  It 
opens,  and  Naka,  the  Scotts'  gentle-mannered 
Japanese  houseman,  bids  you  enter.  You  step 
into  a  spacious  hall,  wood-paneled.  To  the 
right,  a  carved  and  curving  stairway — down 
which,    imaginably,    English    royalty    and    en- 


Gracious  home,  charming  family  .  .  .  and  a  trip  to 
Europe,  too!  Below,  Dorothy  Collins  Scott  gazes 
dreamily  at  the  blue  Mediterranean  near  Amalfi. 


48 


Driving  with  Daddy  Raymond  is  Debbie's  idea  of 
the  very  biggest  happiness  for  very  little  girls. 


tourage  might  descend.  To  the  left,  an  elevator 
to  take  you  to  the  floors  above,  if  you  are  of 
a  mind  to  save  steps.  Facing  you  there  is  a 
high-ceilinged,  nobly  proportioned  living  room, 
so  vast  it  dwarfs  the  concert  grand  piano. 

Naka,  meantime,  has  gone  in  search  of  Mrs. 
Scott.  For  a  fleeting  moment,  you  wonder  if 
he  will  find  her.  In  a  house  like  this,  such  a 
small  girl  could  easily  get  lost  ...  or  be  mis- 
taken for  a  Dresden  figurine  adding  its  inani- 
mate beauty  to  the  whole.  .  .  .  Then,  from  out 
of  Inner  Space,  Dorothy  appears — not  lost,  nor 
inanimate,  but  very  much  alive  and  very  much 
at  home — wearing  a  pale  pink  tailored  shirt, 
black  velveteen  slacks,  her  bright  tan  hair  in 
its  customary  smooth  and  shining  bob  slightly 
curled  at  the  ends. 

Looking  about  you,  you're  tempted  to  ask: 
"Doesn't  it  sort  of  frighten  you?" 

"Funny,  but  it  doesn't,"  Dorothy  laughs,  "and 
I'm  used  to  small  houses,  too.  .  .  .  Remember 
our  first  home  in  near-by  Babylon  on  the  Great 
South  Bay,  the  house  with  the  nautical  atmos- 
phere— even  to  the  ship's-cabin  bedrooms  com- 
plete with  built-in  bunks?  And  the  house  we 
rented  in  Brightwaters,  after  the  baby  came — 
small,  too,  cosy  and  chintzy. 

"Yet  it  was  I  who  fell  in  love  with  this  house 
when,  on  a  Saturday  morning,  a  year  ago  last 
May,  we  first  saw  it.  Raymond  had  mental 
reservations.  'No  house  which  isn't  on  the 
water,'  he  said  as  we  drove  away,  'has  any 
atmosphere.'  He  wanted  high  ceilings,  how- 
ever .  .  .  we  both  did,  because  the  acoustics  are 
so  much  better  for  our  recordings,  which  we 
do  at  home  .  .  .  and  none  of  the  other  houses 
we'd  seen  had  high  ceilings.  So,  in  the  after- 
noon, we  came  back  and  signed  on  the  dotted 
line.  And,  a  few  days  later,  Debbie,  Cathy — 
our  wonderful  nurse  who  has  been  with  us 
since  Debbie  was  born — Raymond  and  I  moved 
in,  bag  and  baggage.  Bag  and  baggage,"  Dor- 
othy laughs,  "and  virtually  nothing  else!  Prac- 
tically no  furniture.  Not  even  a  bed  on  which 
to  lay  our  heads.  We'd  never  bought  a  bed  .  .  . 
what  with  the  built-in  bunks  in  the  first  house, 
and  renting  the  second  one  furnished. 

"Accustomed  as  I  am  to  small  houses,  the 
size  of  this  one  still  didn't  frighten  me  .  .  .  nor 
the  bareness — I  knew  Raymond  had  a  hobby 
for  every  room!    After  (Continued  on  page  81) 


Raymond  shows  his  father-in-law  that  there's  room  for  all  the 
family  hobbies,  from  machines  to  music.  Below,  the  Scotts  pose 
informally  with  Dorothy's  parents,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Sidney  Chandler. 


Happiest  nights  of  all  are  those  when  Raymond  and  Dorothy  can 
have  dinner  early  enough  to  eat  "grown-up  style"  with  Debbie  and 
her  beloved  Cathy  Caruthers,  as  Naka  serves  in  his  deft  manner. 


Pepper  Young's  Family 


Oil  discovered  in  Elmwood!  The  local  paper  played 
it  in  banner  headlines.  The  story  was  big.  The 
news  spread.  And  when  Samuel  Young,  on  whose 
property  the  oil  strike  was  made,  turned  over  part 
of  his  royalties  to  the  town  and  to  his  son  and  daugh- 
ter-in-law, Pepper  and  Linda,  the  press  went  wild! 
Here  was  a  small-town  story  with  human  interest, 
with  elements  of  civic  pride.  First  the  big  city  papers, 
then  the  news  magazines,  sent  men.  The  reporters 
arrived,  the  photographers.  Elmwood  became  famous, 
and  Pepper  and  Linda  were  caught  in  the  spotlight. 
And  yet,  to  them,  the  publicity  was  to  offer — not 
joy — but  a  grim  threat  to  the  marriage  which  they 
value  over  fame  or  fortune. 

Coincidence  set  off  the  sequence  of  events  which 
was  to  haunt  Pepper  and  Linda  for  many  weeks  to 
come.  William  Hackett,  news  photographer,  visited 
Linda  at  home  to  do  pictures  for  a  story.  On  the  table 
in  her  living  room  stood  the  picture  of  Jeffrey  Taylor, 
the  young  doctor  Linda  had  married  in  a  hasty  war- 
time romance.  For  Linda,  the  marriage  had  been  a 
brief  interlude,  now  lost  in  the  dim  shadows  of  the 
past.  That  early  happiness  had  ended  with  a  wire 
from  the  War  Department:  "The  Secretary  of  War 
has  asked  me  to  express  his  deep  regret  that  your 
husband  Jeffrey  Taylor  was  killed  in  action.  .  .  ."  The 
wound  healed  ...  as  all  sorrow  passes,  so  did  this. 
And,  with  her  second  marriage  to  Pepper,  Linda  had 
found  herself  as  a  woman  and  as  a  mother. 

It  took  only  a  few  sentences  to  shatter  Linda's 
serenity.  "Who  is  this  man?"  said  the  strange  photog- 
rapher, picking  up  the  portrait  of  Jeff  Taylor.  "I'm 
sure  he's  a  man  I  knew  during  the  war.  He  made  a 
parachute  jump  with  me  into  enemy  territory,  but 
he  was  injured  and  suffered  amnesia.  The  enemy  took 
him  prisoner.  But  I  heard  only  recently,  from  a  friend 
of  mine  who  escaped  from  behind  the  Iron  Curtain, 
that  Taylor's  alive  somewhere  in  Europe." 

The  words  shocked  Linda.  If  what  Hackett,  the 
photographer,  said  was  true,  her  marriage  to  Pepper 
Young  was  bigamous.  Torn  by  anxiety,  and  without 
Pepper's  knowledge,  she  borrowed  $5,000  and  sent 
Hackett  to  Europe  to  see  if  he  could  find  Jeff  or  bring 
back  proof  that  he  died  in  combat. 

Preyed  upon  by  doubts  about  the  legality  of  her 
marriage,  Linda  nearly  suffered  a  nervous  break- 
down. Pepper,  much  concerned  about  her  strange 
behavior,  finally  persuaded  her  to  confess  what  was 
troubling  her.  Then,  to  find  the  truth,  Pepper  and 
the  elder  Mr.  Young  made  a  trip  to  Washington  to 
check  with  the  War  Department  about  Jeff  Taylor's 
death.  The  official  records  confirmed  the  death,  but 
Linda  remained  unconvinced.  She  assured  Pepper, 
however,  that,  even  though  Jeff  might  be  alive,  her 
present  marriage  was  all  she  valued  in  life. 

So  matters  stand — until  the  terrifying  day  when  a 
long-distance  call  comes  to  Linda  from  New  York. 
In  a  hesitant  voice,  a  man  says,  "Linda,  this  is  Jeff." 

Linda  is  shocked — even  though  she  has  been  more 
or  less  prepared  for  Jeff's  possible  return.    When  she 


A  strange  shadow  from  the  past  menaces 
the  happy  marriage  of  Linda  and  Pepper 


I.  For  Linda,  the  nightmare  began  when  news  camera- 
man William  Hackett  saw  a  photograph  of  her  first  hus- 
band,  Jeff  Taylor,   and  told   her  Jeff  was   still   alive! 


asks  him  to  give  her  some  further  identification,  he 
calls  her  by  a  pet  name  which  had  been  a  joke  be- 
tween them — a  tender,  secret  name  unknown  to  any 
other  person.  Linda  is  thus  convinced  that  her  first 
husband  lives,  and  becomes  hysterical.  A  doctor  is 
called  to  quiet  her. 

Pepper  and  his  father,  determined  to  run  down  the 
man  who  telephoned,  trace  the  call  to  a  bar  in  New 
York  City.  They  go  there,  but  are  unsuccessful  in 
finding  him. 

Meanwhile,  Jeffrey  Taylor  is  on  his  way  to  Elm- 
wood. He  seeks  out  Linda,  who  is  at  first  frightened, 
but  soon  becomes  fascinated  by  Jeff's  startling  story. 
Jeff  says  that  his  memory  has  returned  in  part.  He 
has  remembered  his  marriage  to  her.  "But  there  are 
so  many  gaps,"  Jeff  says,  "you'll  have  to  forgive  me  if 
there  are  some  things  I  can't  recall." 


50 


I 


*  k* 

r* 


2.  Linda  tries  to  keep  her  fears  from  Pepper,  but  the  ties  of  love 
are  too  strong.  Heartbroken,  she  tells  him  she  has  sent  Hackett  to 
Europe — and  that  Hackett  reports  he  has  succeeded  in  tracing  Jeff. 


See  Next  Page  m 


51 


HBBBB^H^B 


3.  First,  Hackett's  cable,  then  a  phone  call  from  a  man 
who  successfully   identifies   himself  to   Linda   as   Jeff. 


4.  Pepper  and  his  father  are  not  convinced.  They  trace 
the  call  to  a  New  York  bar — but  can't  find  the  caller. 


At 

a.        "71 

^^^ 

5.  Pepper  comes  home  to  find  the  man  who  calls  himself 
Jeff  Taylor  already  there.  Linda's  sure  he  is  Jeff,  de- 
spite gaps  in  his  memory,  but  Pepper  has  grave  doubts. 


6.  He  tells  Sadie  Barker,  his  father's  secretary,  that 
Jeff  can't  even  remember  having  been  a  doctor.  She 
suggests   a    meeting    with    Jeff's    old    hospital    friends. 


Linda  is  convinced.  This  must  be  Jeff.  And  she 
cannot  help  but  feel  the  greatest  sympathy  for  him, 
even  though  his  very  presence  in  her  house  is  a 
horrible  threat  to  herself  and  those  she  loves. 

When  Pepper  returns,  he  is  confronted  with  the 
fact  that  he  may  be  facing  an  emotional  and  unpre- 
dictable situation — most  deeply  involving  himself  and 
Linda.  He  is  still  convinced  that  the  man  who  calls 
himself  Jeff  is  not  Jeff.  But  how  can  he  prove  it?  He 
invites  the  intruder  to  stay  with  them,  and  the  invita- 
tion is  accepted.  In  this  way,  perhaps  the  stranger 
will  reveal  himself  as  the  impostor  Pepper  suspects 
him  to  be.   But  how  to  prove  it? 


The  elder  Mr.  Young's  secretary,  Sadie  Barker,  is 
the  first  to  come  up  with  a  practical  suggestion  for 
Pepper.  She  proposes  that,  inasmuch  as  Jeff  had  been 
a  doctor  at  the  hospital  before  he  left  for  war  service, 
some  of  his  hospital  colleagues  go  to  see  him  and  test 
him  out.  Surely,  if  they  recall  various  happenings 
among  themselves,  they  may  be  able  to  arrive  at 
reasonable  proof — or  doubt — of  his  identity. 

When  the  meeting  comes  about,  the  man  called  Jeff 
is  visibly  disturbed.  The  young  doctors  recognize  Jeff 
at  once — he  has  not  changed  much  physically.  But 
they  are  astounded  when  he  doesn't  recognize  them. 
He  claims  that  he  has  never  been  a  doctor!    Under 


52 


Pepper  Young's  Family 

(Continued) 


y 


/ 


■■I 

7.  Friends  at  the  hospital  identify  Jeff — but  he  can't  remember  them,  nor  answer 
their  questions.  Linda  sees  his  anguished  confusion  and  springs  to  his  defense. 
Pepper  may  have  her  heart,  but  Jeff  has  her  sympathy.  Which  one  is  her  husband? 


their  probing  questions,  Jeff  nearly  breaks  down. 
And,  at  this  point,  Linda  flares  up  at  the  tormentors. 
"Leave  him  alone!  Leave  him  alone!"  Linda  cries. 
"Can't  you  see  he's  forgotten  all  about  having  been 
a  doctor?  His  memory's  not  completely  restored.  No 
wonder,  after  the  terrible  experiences  Jeff  had." 

In  this  moment,  Pepper  Young  realizes,  for  the  first 
time,  that  the  emotional  stress  Linda  is  undergoing 
may  leave  her  the  victim  of  a  situation  in  which  she 
is  actually  blameless.  All  his  loyalty  rises  to  Linda's 
defense.  He  will  not  let  this  crisis  ruin  them.  But 
what  can  he  do  next,  to  insure  the  future  peace  and 
happiness  of  Pepper  Young's  family? 


Pictured  here,  as  heard  on  the  air,  are: 

Pepper  Young Mason  Adams 

Linda  Young Margaret  Draper 

Sam  Young Bill  Johnstone 

Jeff  Taylor Staats  Cotsworth 

William  Hackett John  Larkin 

Sadie  Barker Marie  De Wolf e 

Pepper  Young's  Family — heard  over  NBC  Radio,  M-F,  at  3:45 
P.M.  EDT — was  created  and  is  written  by  Elaine  Carrington. 


53 


Buddy  got  his  first  break  in  the  Catskills, 
often  returns  to  the  Concord  (above,  with 
Betty  and  Jane  Kedn,  famous  sister  team). 


m*£*   m  & 


Big  Hackett  projects:  Golf  (his  New  Jersey 
home  is  next  to  the  Englewood  course) — and 
kitchen  (he's  planning  the  most  modern  ever). 


FULL  STEAM  AHEAD  FOR 

$faflfel| 


By   ED  MEYERSON 


Leonia,  New  Jersey,  is  just  across  the  river  from  New  York 
i  City.    There,  only  twenty  minutes  from  Manhattan,  is  an 
old-fashioned  residential  community  where  the  houses  are 
not  all  alike.  The  streets  are  still  lined  with  shade  trees,  some 
of  the  porches  still  have  swings  on  them,  and  practically 
everyone  still  mows  his  own  lawn.  ...  To  many  ex-New 
Yorkers,  Leonia  is  the  best  place  in  the  world  to  bring  Up 
children.   But,  to  other  New  Yorkers — who  wouldn't  leave 
Manhattan  on  a  bet — it's  the  last  place  in  the  world  they  would 
ever  expect  to  find  Buddy  Hackett.    And  in  a  six-room 
ranch  house,  at  that!  However,  these  are  the  ones  who  still 
remember  Buddy  from  his  bachelor  days,  when  he  was  cutting 
capers  in  night  clubs  from  Broadway  to  Hollywood,  from 
the  Catskills  to  Miami  Beach.  .  .  .  These  are  the  ones  who 
don't  know  there's  a  new  Buddy  Hackett,  who  has  not  only 
changed  his  professional  status  but  his  personal  status,  as  well. 
Married  a  little  over  a  year  now,  he  has — all  in  short  order — 
acquired  a  new  home,  a  new  baby,  and  a  brand-new 
career  as  star  of  Stanley,  NBC-TV's  new  Monday-night 
comedy  series,  produced  by  Max  Liebman. 

The  Hacketts'  new  home  is  on  top  of  a  hill,  and  its  lawn 
runs  right  into  the  golf  course  of  the  Englewood  Golf  Club. 
And  there,  if  he  isn't  out  playing  on  the  links,  you  can 
find  Buddy  Hackett,  Esq.,  at  home.  He  (Continued  on  page  63) 

Buddy  Hackett  stars  in  Stanley,  NBC-TV,  three  Mon.  out  of  four,  at  8:30 
P.M.  EDT,  for  Pall  Mall  Cigarettes  and  Bobbi  Pin-Curl  Home  Permanent. 


I 


Buddy  Hackett  proves  a  "funny  fat  man  from  Brooklyn" 

can  have  his  dreams— and  make  them  come  true,  too 


55 


Who's  Who  on  the 

GALEN  DRAKE  SHOW 


Galen  and  Anne  met  in  a  doctor's  office,  where  he  was  paying  a  pro- 
fessional call,  she  a  social  one.  They've  lived  happily — and  healthily 
afterwords,  enjoy  four-way  talkfests  with  Linda  Anne  and  Galen,  Jr. 


Conversation  is  the  art 
Galen  Drake  the  curator  in 
a  words-and-music  exhibit 


A  Jack  of  all  trades,  Galen  Drake 
is  master  of  most  of  them.  His 
particular  forte  is  conversation,  of 
which  he  is  reviving  the  lost  art. 
Galen's  brand  is  pithy,  pungent  and 
provocative.  But  before  winning 
such  epithets  as  "radio's  most  con- 
vincing voice,"  "the  homemakers' 
best  friend,"  and  president  of  the 
Relaxation  Club  of  America,  Galen 
was,  among  other  things,  a  medical 
student,  a  law  student,  an  amateur 
boxer,  a  director  of  plays  and,  at 
nineteen,  the  conductor  of  the  South- 
ern California.  Symphony  Orchestra. 
All  these  experiences  —  peppered 
with  voracious  and  varied  reading — 
are  grist  for  the  mill  of  Galen's 
Saturday  variety  show  on  the  CBS 
Radio  network  and  his  daily  service 
program  on  WCBS  in  New  York. 
.  .  .  Born  in  Indiana,  reared  in  Cali- 
fornia, Galen  grew  up  in  a  family 
who  "enjoyed  talking  with  each 
other."  At  eighteen,  Galen  was  a 
full-fledged  singing  favorite  on 
KFOX  in  California,  when  the  spon- 
sor decided  he  wanted  some  word- 
age  mixed  in  with  the  music.  "Our 
boy  can  talk,  too,"  said  the  station 
manager — and  Galen  was  launched 
as  a  raconteur  and  pundit  .  .  .  Last 
year,  the  cycle  came  full  circle.  Pro- 
ducer Lou  Melamed  overheard  Galen 
humming,  discovered  that  "our  boy 
can  sing,  too,"  and  introduced  a 
"new"  vocalist  to  the  radio  audience. 
Galen's  comment:  "No  one  sent  in 
any  threatening  letters."  ...  A  doc- 
tor's office  was  the  scene  for  Galen's 
first  meeting  with  his  wife  Anne,  a 
model.  They  started  a  conversation 
that  has  grown  into  roundtable  dis- 
cussions with  daughter  Linda  Anne, 
five-and-a-half,  and  son  Galen,  Jr., 
four.  The  current  topic:  Their 
new  three-story  Tudor  home  in 
Riverdale,  New  York.  .  .  .  The  feel- 
ing of  a  family  extends  to  the  cast 
of   the   Galen   Drake   Show.    Stuart 

Continued         k. 


t, 


56 


A  Hoosier  love  of  conversation  and  cracker-barrel  common  sense  carry  over  to  the  Drakes'  new  home 
in  Riverdale.  Two  gals,  redheaded  Anne  and  young  Linda  Anne,  and  two  guys,  Galen  and  Galen,  Jr., 
plan   to   make  good   use  of  a   two-storey   library    of    100,000    books    as    source    material    for   talk. 


Who's  Who  on  the 
GALEN  DRAKE  SHOW 


(Continued) 


Young  and  old  enjoy  the  ad-lib  chatter  of  "the  highest-priced  copywriter 
in  America."  Galen  uses  no  scripts,  even  on  commercials.  "You  wouldn't 
diagram  a  conversation  with  a  friend,  would  you?"  asks  the  radio  pundit. 


Pianist  Bernie  Leighton  runs  the  gamut  from  long-hair  concerts  at  Carnegie 
...  to  top-flight  jazz  ...  to  his  six-man  group  on  Galen's  show — where  he  ac- 
companies all  singers,  including  the  new  vocal  "discovery,"  Galen  himself. 


Show  biz  tinsel  gets  the  go-by 
from  Stuart  Foster,  who  sings  the 
joys  of  being  a  husband  and  a  dad. 

Foster,  a  black-haired,  lithe-look- 
ing lad,  is  quietly  but  unquenchably 
exuberant.  He  started  singing  in  a 
Binghamton,  New  York,  church 
choir,  then  went  on  to  fancy  bistros 
and  radio.  Still  grass  roots  at  heart, 
he  enjoys  life  with  wife  Patricia  and 
son  James,  now  six.  .  .  .  Orchestra 
leader  and  pianist  Bernie  Leighton 
was  a  child  prodigy  in  New  Haven, 
Connecticut,  but  claims  it's  still  too 
early  to  tell  about  his  two-year-old 
daughter,  Nina  Robin.  When  not 
making  music,  his  hobby  is  "listen- 
ing to  music,  all  kinds.  I'm  afraid 
I'm  music  from  beginning  to  end." 
.  .  .  Five-foot-two,  eyes  of  green- 
blue,  Sandy  Stewart  wound  up  a 
Philadelphia  high-school  romance 
last  December,  when  she  married 
Saul  Kane.  The  young  bride,  born 
July  10,  1937,  is  a  radio  veteran.  She 
debuted  at  nine,  won  a  recording 
contract  at  fifteen.  Sandy  likes  paint- 
ing, ice  skating,  knitting,  and  sports. 
She's  a  good  cook — but  hates  clean- 
ing up  afterward.  .  .  .  The  Three 
Beaus  and  a  Peep — Les  Brush, 
Jimmy  Leyden  and  Phil  Scott  are 
the  Beaus,  Darlene  Zito  is  the  Peep — 
have  sung  together  on  every  network 
— and  most  major  record  labels. 
Darlene  was  introduced  to  radio  at 


Producer  Lou  Melamed  overheard 
Galen  humming,  completed  a  cycle 
by  finding   "our  boy  can  sing   too." 


58 


Newlywed  Sandy  Stewart  had  no 
fiascos  with  bride's  biscuits.  She 
loves  cooking — but  not  cleaning  up. 


the  age  of  four.  She  had  her  own 
show  in  her  home  town  of  New 
Haven,  Connecticut,  then  Went  di- 
rectly from  high  school  into  a  pro 
engagement  at  New  York's  swank 
Versailles  night  club.  The  brown- 
eyed  brunette  serves  Italian  cook- 
ery to  her  best  beau,  Les  Brush,  her 
husband  as  of  October  6.  .  .  .  Les, 
the  tenor,  is  another  early  starter. 
At  ten,  he  starred  on  his  own  radio 
show.  Then  the  Brooklyn  lad  de- 
cided to  be  an  M.D.,  studied  at 
Brooklyn  Prep  and  St.  John's  Uni- 
versity— until  the  lure  of  music 
proved  too  great.  He  joined  the 
Vocatones,  then,  after  war  service 
in  Europe,  became  a  "Beau."  .  .  . 
Jimmy  Leyden,  the  second  baritone 
and  arranger,  hails  from  Springfield, 
Massachusetts,  sang  his  way  through 
Perin  State,  where  he  was  also  drum 
major,  marching  band  member  and 
leader  of  the  "Collegians"  university 
band.  He  took  four  years  out  to 
serve  in  the  Marines,  then  returned 
to  music  with  the  Beaus.  .  .  .  Like 
the  other  Brooklynite  in  the  group, 
Phil  Scott,  the  low  baritone,  is  also 
an  ex-Vocatone.  A  stint  at  the 
World's  Fair  led  to  radio  appearances 
and  a  tour  of  Southern  states  and 
theaters.  Last  stop  on  the  tour  was 
the  Army,  wherein  he  entertained 
GI's.  First  stop  out  of  the  Army  was 
the  Three  Beaus  and  a  Peep.  .  .  . 
When  the  Galen  Drake  Show  goes 
off,  the  Slenderella  Show  comes  on, 
with  Eloise  English  as  the  first 
woman  to  swap  Galen  his  Own  kind 
of  talk.  Eloise,  who  originated  the 
name  "Slenderella"  and  who  travels 
100,000  miles  a  year  to  supervise 
management  of  the  salons,  debuted 
on  radio  when  she  covered  the 
Prince  Ranier-Grace  Kelly  nuptials. 

The  Galen  Drake  Show,  CBS  Radio,  Sat.  at 
10:05  A.M.,  sponsored  by  Slenderella  Inter- 
national, D-Con  Company  and  others,  is 
followed  by  The  Slenderella  Show  at  10:50 
A.M.  Galen's  heard  over  WCBS  Radio  ( N.Y. ) 
on  The  Housewives'  Protective  League,  a 
program  service  of  CBS  Radio,  M-F,  3:30 
P.M.,  and  Sat.,  9:30  A.M.  (All  times  EDT) 


Two  boys  from  Brooklyn,  baritone  Phil  Scott  and  tenor  Les  Brush  ...  a  gal 
from  New  Haven,  Darlene  Zito  .  .  .  and  a  guy  from  Springfield,  baritone  Jimmy 
Leyden  .  .  .  harmonize  every  Saturday  morning  as  the  Three  Beaus  and  a  Peep. 


Co-starring  on  The  Slenderella  Show,  Eloise  English  draws  on  a  background 
as  schoolteacher,  phone  company  executive,  and  lieutenant  commander  in  the 
Waves  to  become  the  first  woman  to  match   conversational   wits  with   Galen. 


59 


Julie  Stevens'  first  child, 
Nancy,  looks  forward 
with  as  much  love  and  joy  as 
her  own  Mommy  and  Daddy 

By 
FRANCES  KISH 


Knowing  her  own  place  is  secure  in  the  hearts  of  parents  Julie  and  Charles 
Underhill,  little  Nancy  practice^ her  future  part  as  "older  sister" — with  the 
same  devotion  Julie  gives  to  her  starring  role  in  The  Romance  Of  Helen  Trent. 


Julie  Stevens — in  person,  not  on  the  air  as  star  of  CBS 
Radio's  The  Romance  of  Helen  Trent — left  a  doctor's 
office  one  day  last  spring,  her  blue -green  eyes  alight 
with  a  special  glow,  her  blonde  head  held  high,  her  slim 
body  lightly  braced  against  the  wind.  It  was  a  day  when 
the  last  clutching  fingers  of  winter's  cold  struggled  to  hold 
back  the  warming  sun,  but  Julie  was  aware  of  only  one 
thing — the  miracle  of  new  life  to  be,  the  springtime  and 
summer,  and  then  the  autumn  of  fruition.   The  doctor 
had  just  told  her  she  was  going  to  have  a  second  child, 
probably  early  in  November.     Before  another  winter  set 
in,  there  would  be  the  little  brother  or  sister  for  Nancy 
Elizabeth  that  she  and  Charles  had  been  hoping  for 
with  all  their  hearts. 

Nancy  was-  almost  five  at  this  time.     She  was  born  in 
June,  1951,  during  Julie's  seventh  year  as  star  of  The 
Romance  Of  Helen  Trent,  and  during  the  seventh  year  of 
Julie's  marriage  to  Charles  Underhill,  now  an  executive 
of  a  large  industrial  organization.    Julie  often  thought 
that,  because  they  had  waited  so  long  for  Nancy  to  come, 
this  beautiful  little  girl  of  theirs  seemed  even  extra-dear. 
And  now — she  was  saying,  over  and  over,  to  herself — 
there  would  be  another  child,  just  as  dear  to  them  both, 
and  to  Nancy  herself.     She  could  hardly  wait  to  see 
her  daughter's  great  blue  eyes  shine  with  amazement 
when  she  broke  the  news. 

Julie  had  read  books  that  help  mothers  of  young  children 
meet  situations  which  arise  in  their  daily  living,  and  she 
knew  that  many  experts  advise  waiting  a  while  before 
telling  a  young  child  that  another  baby  is  coming,  so  the 
long  preparation  and  the  months  of  planning  will  not 
seem  so  interminable  to  the  child.     "For  some  mothers,  I 
am  sure  that  is  excellent  advice,  but  those  authorities 


Nancy  will   know  how  to  feed  the  new  baby.   (She   has 
already  warned  Julie  about  an  expectant  mama's  diet!) 


See  Next  Page  m 


61 


(Continued) 


Julie  says  proudly:  "Charles  has  done  some  very  smart 
things  to  help.  Fathers  can — and  should — at  this  time." 


didn't  happen  to  know  me,  Julie  Stevens  Underhill.  I'm 
the  kind  who  simply  can't  keep  such  wonderful  news 
to  myself.  As  soon  as  Charles  knew  it,  I  wanted  every- 
one else  to  know — and  certainly  Nancy. 

"We  have  always  treated  Nancy  rather  like  a 
grown-up,"  Julie  explains,  "and  told  her  the  truth 
about  things,  within  the  limits  of  her  understanding. 
There  has  been  no  mystery  about  where  babies  come 
from  ...  I  believe  that  a  mother  who  makes  a  mystery 
of  it  is  building  a  wall  between  herself  and  her  child, 
and  when  the  day  comes  that  she  wants  to  topple  it 
over,  it  will  have  grown  too  high  and  too  heavy.  Even 
young  children  sense  it  when  you  continue  to  evade 
their  perfectly  natural  questioning.  I  have  seen  that 
happen  so  often,  as  I  have  watched  some  of  my  friends 
and  their  children.  I  promised  myself  there  would  be 
only  frankness  between  my  children  and  me." 

Nancy  must  have  felt  the  happiness  radiating  from 
her  mother,  when  Julie  drew  the  little  girl  to  her.  The 
small  face  lighted  up  in  anticipation  of  what  must 
undoubtedly  be  wonderful  news,  if  it  made  Mommy 
look  so  extra-sparkly,  so  extra-gay.  "The  most  excit- 
ing thing  has  happened,  and  I  could  hardly  wait  to  tell 
you,"  Julie  began.  "We  are  going  to  have  a  baby!" 
She  hugged  the  little  girl  closer,  as  the  impact  of  the 
announcement  sank  into  the  child's  mind. 

"Nancy  was  just  as  pleased  and  excited  as  I  knew 
she  would  be,"  Julie  recalls,  "although  I  realized  it  was 
going  to  be  a  while  before  the  full  force  of  this  new 
idea  could  take  hold.     My    (Continued  on  page  72) 

Julie  Stevens  stars  as  Helen,  in  The  Romance  Of  Helen  Trent,  as 
heard  over  CBS  Radio,  Monday  through  Friday,  at  12:30  P.M.  EDT. 


Mommy  was  quieter,  during  family  romps  in  the  pond  this  summer.  But  Nancy  knew  why,  and  was  more  careful,  too! 


1 


62 


Full  Steam  Ahead 
for  Stanley 

(Continued  jrom  page  54) 

ushers  you  into  an  enormous  room — ac- 
tually, it's  two  rooms  (living  room  and 
dining  room),  except  that  there's  no  di- 
vision between  them.  "We've  a  large  play 
room  downstairs,"  he  explains,  "but  I 
don't  believe  in  inviting  people  to  the 
house  and  then  taking  them  down  to  the 
cellar."  Nor  does  he  take  you  into  his 
den.  And,  as  you  watch  him  pacing,  you 
understand  why.  He's  just  had  it  en- 
larged, but  even  so — there  isn't  room 
enough  for  him  to  be  restless  in  the  den. 
Buddy  can't  sit  still.  Talking  to  him  is  a 
little  like  watching  a  merry-go-round — 
and,  every  time  the  elephant  goes  by,  you 
try  to  get  in  a  word. 

"Why  did  I  go  into  show  business?" 
Buddy  picks  up  the  question  as  though 
reaching  for  the  brass  ring.  "I  was  fat 
and  I  was  from  Brooklyn,"  he  replies. 
"That  made  me  a  funny  man."  But 
Brooklyn  is  full  of  fat  men.  And,  while 
many  are  undoubtedly  funny,  how  many 
end  up  with  their  own  television  shows? 
What's  more,  for  all  his  two-hundred- 
and-twenty  pounds,  one  doesn't  think  of 
Buddy  as  being  fat.  He's  as  solidly  packed 
as  a  subway  express  train,  and  just  about 
as  speedy.  He  talks  with  his  whole  body 
— his  eyes,  his  hands — dancing,  clowning, 
acting  out  everything  he  has  to  say.  Bud- 
dy manages  to  transform  any  room  he 
enters  into  a  stage  where  he  knocks  him- 
self out  putting  on  a  show.  But  this  is 
more  than  being  a  comedian.  This  is  a 
one-man  crusade  to  make  everyone  he 
meets  feel  good.  He  isn't  so  much  trying 
to  make  people  laugh  as  he  is  trying  to 
make  them  happy.  And  he's  not  playing 
for  applause  alone.  He's  playing  for  love. 
Far  from  being  just  a  fat,  funny  man  from 
Brooklyn,  Buddy  Hackett  is  a  big  over- 
grown kewpie-doll  you  want  to  hug  .  .  . 

Philip  Hacker,  Buddy's  father,  was  born 
in  Palermo,  Sicily.  A  skilled  upholsterer, 
he  invented  the  first  daybed — a  precursor 
to  the  modern  studio  couch.  Not  that  it 
ever  brought  him  fame  or  fortune.  "He 
wouldn't  take  out  patents,"  Buddy  com- 
plains. "He  never  made  a  quarter  on  it. 
It  was  wonderful  the  way  it  was,  but  he 
kept  saying:  T  can  make  a  better  one.' " 
Buddy  sighs,  shaking  his  head,  then 
smiles — in  spite  of  himself — at  his  father's 
incorrigibility.  "He  was  always  tinker- 
ing. He  was  up  at  four  every  morning, 
but  he  just  made  enough  in  the  store  to 
get  by.     He  was  the  worst  businessman." 

As  a  boy,  Buddy  was  quick  to  escape 
the  confines  of  his  home  into  the  happy 
atmosphere  of  the  neighborhood,  and 
there  he  found  "warmth  all  around."  He 
could  make  people  laugh.  He  could  tell 
by  the  way  their  faces  lit  up  when  they 
saw  him,  that  it  was  a  good  way  to  make 
people  like  him.  "Even  adults,"  he  re- 
calls, "used  to  stop  to  talk  to  me.  I  guess 
it  was  the  nutty  things  I  said. 

"I  was  only  four  when  I  wanted  to  be 
a  comedian,"  he  says — and  he  means  a 
professional  comedian.  The  first  time  he 
saw  Buster  Keaton  in  the  movies,  Buddy 
knew  that's  what  he  wanted  to  do,  too. 
He  watched  the  Abbott  and  Costello  pic- 
tures and  studied  them  for  their  slapstick. 
Then  he  discovered  W.  C.  Fields!  "He 
had  such  disdain  for  the  human  race," 
Buddy  sighs  in  happy  recollection.  But 
Buddy  also  appreciated  the  old  master's 
"suave,  debonair  quality — when,  all  the 
while,  he  lived  in  a  vacuum.  He  was  the 
dashing  knight  in  armor,  the  Great  Lover, 
the  Walter  Mitty  of  his  day — but  only  in 
his  own  mind." 


SKATING  BALJ 


RINA 


KTI 


AMAZING 
BARGAIN! 


METAL 

ICE 
SKATES! 


A  GENUINE 
4  BALZIO 
^  SLIPPERS 

A  KNIT 
^  STOCKINGS 
M  REAL 
4  ALL  METAL 
^  ICE  SKATES 

She  dances,  walks 
and  skates  too! 

She's  the  year's  most  lovable  doll 
. . .  she's  so  beautiful  and  so  very 
talented  . .  .  She  sleeps  and  sits  up. 
Hold  her  hand  and  she'll  walk  too, 
her  pretty  head  moving  to  and  fro 
with  every  step!  But  she  can  do 
even  more:  she  can  ice  skate  too! 
She  comes  with  real  METAL  ice 
skates  that  slip  on  and  off  easily! 
She's  everything  your  little  girl  has  al- 
ways wanted! 

COMPLETE  WARDROBE  GIVEN! 

Olympic  Princess  is  one  of  America's  best 
dressed  dolls.  She  comes  to  you  with  this 
complete  glamour  wardrobe;  a  beautiful 
ballerina  outfit  made  of  flowing  triple- 
tiered  frosted  netting  that  stands  out, 
real  all-metal  ice  skates  and  snow  white 
boots,  genuine  Balzio  ballet  slippers, 
waterproof  rain  cape  and  hood,  pretty 
flannel  coat,  matching  bonnet,  panties,  stockings, 
beautiful  lace-trimmed  nightgown  and  the  loveliest 
hi-fashion  party  dress.  Everything  stylishly  de- 
signed and  smartly  tailored.  This  wardrobe  alone 
is  worth  far  more  than  our  asking  price  for  the 
doll  alone,  yet  it  comes  to  you  at  no  extra  cost. 

MIRACLE  DYNEL  HAIR— Comb  it  .  . .  Set  it ...  . 

Wash,  comb,  set  and  curl  her  hair!  Her  smooth 
body  can  be  washed  too!  Ruggedly  made  walking 
mechanism  fully  guaranteed!  All  in  all  you  get  a 
7.98  value— at  the  bargain  price  of  $2.98.  Send 
check,  m.o.  or  cash  for  immediate  free  delivery. 
COD's  plus  59c  extra  postage.  In  either  case  your 
2.98  back  quick  if  you  are  not  100%  satisfied.  Don't 
wait  for  the  last  minute  rush!  Order  several  now 
and  bring  happiness  to  every  little  girl  on  your 
list!  Rush  coupon  TODAY! 

MRS.  LAVALLE,  Dept.   1 30-M-63 

352  Fourth  Avenue,  New  York  10,  N.  Y. 


! 


money  back  guarantee! 


MRS.  LAVALLE.  Dept.    I30-M-63 
352  Fourth  Avenue,  New  York  10,  ft.  Y. 


'Olympic  Princess"  Skating  Bal- 


RUSH 

lerina  &  Walking  Dnll  at  bargain  price  of  $2.98  on 
7-day  MONEY  BACK  GUARANTEE!  Include  at  no 
extra  cost  complete  wardrobe  and  accessories.  I  must 
be  satisfied  in  every  way,  otherwise  you  will  refund 
my  money  at  once. 

D  Payment  enclosed.  Bush  prepaid). 

□  Send  COD  plus  59c  extra  for  postages 

Name _ _ ^^____ 


Address_ 
City 


_Zone_ 


_Statc_ 


63 


Life,  however,  can  be  funny  in  its  own 
right.  It  was  all  very  well  to  go  to  the 
movies  and  dream  of  being  the  funniest 
comedian  of  them  all.  But,  in  the  mean- 
time, he  had  to  work.  "My  family  met 
the  bills  every  month,"  Buddy  explains. 
"We  weren't  on  relief,  and  there  was  al- 
ways enough  to  eat.  There  might  not  be 
meat  sometimes,  so — "  he  shrugs,  "we  ate 
bread."  Nevertheless,  Buddy  started  to 
work  at  eleven.  He  got  part-time  jobs  in 
a  grocery  store,  a  drugstore — and,  every 
night,  he  made  twenty-five  cents  by  sit- 
ting in  a  doctor's  office,  from  eight  until 
nine,  answering  the  telephone  while  the 
doctor  took  his  (the  doctor's)  mother  out 
for  a  ride.  Buddy  used  to  read  all  the 
medical  journals  in  the  office  and  dream 
of  becoming  a  doctor  himself  one  day. 
"But  I  had  no  funds,"  he  points  out.  He 
also  had  no  grades.  "School  was  too  easy 
for  me.  I  always  passed,  but  I  wasn't 
working  for  high  marks.  I  knew  I'd  never 
really  go  to  college." 

Suddenly,  he  thinks  of  all  the  young 
people  who  have  come  to  him  for  advice, 
asking  how  they  can  become  comedians, 
too.  "I  always  tell  them  to  go  to  col- 
lege," Buddy  says.  "People  only  laugh 
when  you  say  something  they  know,  not 
something  you  know.  And,  to  reach  all 
kinds  of  people,  you've  got  to  know  every 
field.  How  else  are  you  going  to  be  able 
to  tell  jokes  in  every  field?" 

As  for  Buddy  himself,  he  never  went 
to  college,  but  he  took  a  four-year  course 
of  his  own  where  he  "lived  everything 
and  did  research  in  every  field."  He  was 
not  only  surprised  but  gratified  to  learn, 
when  he  went  to  Hollywood  to  make  pic- 
tures, that  he  could  "talk  to  anyone" — and 
on  their  own  terms,  regardless  of  how 
much  formal  education  they  had  had. 

But  that  was  all  in  the  future.  At  fif- 
teen, Buddy — having  learned  the  trade 
from  his  father — opened  up  his  own  fur- 
niture store.  "Rent  was  twenty  dollars  a 
month,"  he  recalls.  "I  had  my  father  and 
my  uncle  working  for  me."  As  he  ex- 
plains, "My  father  was  a  great  mechanic, 
but  someone  had  to  be  the  boss."  Buddy 
was  contact  man,  and  apparently  the  store 
prospered:  "Three  families  ate  out  of  it" 
— the  third  family  belonging  to  a  refugee 
the  Hackers  took  into  the  store  with  them. 

"But  then  I  had  a  big  decision  to  make," 
Buddy  remembers.  "Should  I  be  a  suc- 
cessful businessman  or  an  all- American 
hero?"  He  had  made  the  football  team 
at  New  Utrecht  High  School,  but  it  would 
interfere   with  his   extracurricular   activi- 


ties as  proprietor  of  the  store.  That  was 
when  he  gave  it  all  up  for  the  glory  of 
being  "a  football  hero."  If  Buddy  can't 
help  but  sigh  nostalgically,  it's  because 
"that  was  over  sixty  pounds  ago."  He  also 
became  a  coach,  with  about  twenty  boys 
— aged  eleven — under  his  guidance.  "My 
three  teams  never  lost  a  game,"  he  an- 
nounces proudlv.  Then,  nostalgically,  he 
recalls  that  all  of  them  got  married — 
most  of  them  before  their  coach. 

After  graduation  from  high  school, 
Buddy  was  a  truck  driver,  a  lumber 
salesman,  an  upholsterer,  and  then — in 
1942 — a  gun  mechanic  in  an  Army  aircraft 
unit.  He  was  discharged  in  1945  because 
.  .  .  well,  in  his  own  words,  as  transcribed 
phonetically  by  an  interviewer  who  tried 
to  capture  his  "true  Broadwayese"  with  a 
touch  of  Brooklyn  in  it:  "I  got  a  medical 
discharge  on  account  of  bronkal  azma, 
which  I  had  when  I  first  went  in.  I  didn't 
even  have  to  go  in.  The  doctor  told  me 
that  this  azma  comes  from  a  lot  of  things 
— allergies  and  that  kind  of  thing." 

Obviously,  Buddy  speaks  the  same  off- 
stage as  on.  But  he  doesn't  think  the 
same.  In  real  life,  he  knows  exactly  what 
he's  doing  and  why,  and  he  had  come  out 
of  the  Army  with  a  plan.  He  was  going 
to  be  a  professional  comedian,  working  up 
until  he  was  what  is  known  as  a  "stand- 
ard act,"  making  from  five  hundred  to 
eight  hundred  a  week.  ("Nowadays," 
Buddy  points  out,  "such  acts  make  more.") 
In  order  to  do  this,  he  was  willing  to 
spend  a  four-year  apprenticeship.  The 
four-year  period  was  arbitrary,  but  that's 
how  long  it  would  have  taken  him  to  get 
a  degree  from  a  university.  And,  to  Bud- 
dy, this  was  like  going  to  college  .  .  .  only 
his  classrooms  were  to  be  rehearsal  halls 
and  audition  rooms,  studying  how  other 
performers  did  it.  And  each  year,  he  was 
determined,  he  would  do  better. 

Like  so  many  other  present-day  come- 
dians, Buddy  got  his  start  in  the  Catskills. 
"I  started  right  at  the  top,"  he  recalls,  "at 
the  Concord."  But  he  started  at  the  bot- 
tom of  the  top — for,  while  he  was  "an 
outdoor  entertainer,"  his  chief  duties 
were  to  take  care  of  skates,  skis  and  to- 
boggans. Nevertheless,  he  put  together  a 
little  night-club  act  and  was  ready  to 
tackle  the  big  city:  "I  walked  right  into 
an  agent's  office  and  told  him:  'I'm  a 
comedian.'  'I  believe  you,'  the  agent  re- 
plied"— Buddy  smiles  as  he  tells  it,  but 
it's  a  smile  of  incredulity,  not  amuse- 
ment— "and  I've  worked  ever  since." 

In  June,  1945,  he  made  his  debut  at  the 
Pink  Elephant,  a  Brooklyn  night  club.   He 


64 


Are  you  your  husbands 
only  wife? 

What  does  a  man  really  do  when  he's  away  from  home? 
Countless  women  would  like  to  know.  The  radio  program 
"My  True  Story"  deals  frankly  and  fearlessly  with  the 
problems  of  love  and  marriage— anger  and  passion. 
Based  upon  stories  taken  from  the  files  of  True  Story 
Magazine,  it  dramatizes  the  lives  of  real  people — people 
who  have  faced  deep  problems  and  have  found  the  way 
to  happiness.  Be  sure  to  listen  to  these  stories. 

TUNE  IN  EVERY  MORNING  TO 

My  True  Story 

AMERICAN   BROADCASTING  STATIONS 

"To  be  shackled  forever  to  a  life  you  hate  ...  all  that  .  .  .  and  more 
—is  my  story."  Don't  miss  "Desire  In  Chains"  in  November  TRUE 
STORY  magazine — at  newsstands  now. 


did  impersonations  of  Peter  Lorre,  Sidney 
Greenstreet,  and  James  Cagney,  and  sati- 
rized radio  programs — "Jack  Armbuster, 
All-American  Boy"  and  "Judge  John  J. 
Agony."  He  made  forty  dollars  a  week- 
end. Then  he  went  from  one  cellar  club 
to  another,  and  from  one  "borscht  cir- 
cuit" hotel  to  another,  until  the  end  of 
1946,  when  he  started  touring  in  the  road 
company  of  the  Broadway  musical,  "Call 
Me  Mister."  He  was  making  two  hundred 
dollars  a  week  .  .  .  but  a  year  later,  when 
the  tour  ended,  he  took  a  job  in  a  Boston 
night  club  for  one  hundred  dollars.  "As 
far  as  I  was  concerned,"  Buddy  says,  "I 
was  still  in  school.  I  was  going  ahead 
faster  than  I  had  expected,  but  I  still  had 
an  apprenticeship  to  serve.  After  all, 
you've  got  to  put  in  ten  years  before  you 
really  know  how  to  walk  on." 

He  learned  not  to  tell  "esoteric  jokes," 
because  "real  humor  shouldn't  be  selfish." 
When  you  share  a  joke,  people  "laugh  be- 
cause they  feel  good."  And,  though  he 
had  heard  much  about  the  mysterious 
business  of  timing,  he  learned  that  it  was 
nothing  more  than  "being  polite  and  be- 
ing aware  .  .  .  not  telling  jokes  one  after 
another,  but  where  they  fit — and  when 
the  audience  is  ready  for  them." 

He  got  his  diploma.  He  moved  from  the 
cellar  clubs  to  the  ground-floor  bistros, 
making  as  high  as  four  thousand  dollars 
a  week.  And,  only  five  years  after  mak- 
ing his  Brooklyn  debut,  he  was  signed  to 
a  motion-picture  contract.  He  made 
"Walking  My  Baby  Back  Home,"  starring 
Donald  O'Connor  and  Janet  Leigh,  and 
"Fireman,  Save  My  Child,"  with  Hugh 
O'Brian.  "But  then,  one  day,  they  called 
me  into  the  studio,"  Buddy  recalls.  "They 
said,  'You're  a  fine  comedian.'  Then  they 
said,  'But  we  don't  know  what  to  do  with 
you.'    So  I  left." 

It  was  in  March  of  1953  that  Sidney 
Kingsley,  the  well  known  playwright, 
caught  Buddy's  act  in  a  Miami  Beach 
night  club.  He  thought  Buddy  would  be 
perfect  for  the  role  of  "Kewpie"  in  his 
new  play,  "Lunatics  and  Lovers."  The 
part  called  for  a  man  with  "a  round,  fat 
face  with  beady  brown  eyes,  wearing  pink 
polka-dot  shorts,  eating  breakfast  toward 
evening."  Buddy  had  no  sooner  read  this 
description  of  the  character  than  he 
grabbed  the  chance  to  play  his  first  dra- 
matic role.  "That's  me,"  he  cried.  "I  live 
this  way.    How  could  I  miss?" 

That  December,  the  play  opened  on 
Broadway,  and  Buddy  was  hailed  as  the 
bright  new  comedy  discovery  of  the  sea- 
son— and  won  the  coveted  Donaldson 
Award.  What's  more,  he  was  on  Broad- 
way long  enough  to  be  discovered  by 
television,  too.  Max  Liebman  featured 
him  in  two  color  spectaculars,  and  Perry 
Como  had  him  as  a  guest  star  on  several 
shows.  And,  last  September,  when  Stan- 
ley made  its  debut  on  the  NBC  Television 
Network,  Buddy  really  came  into  his  own 
— with  a  comedy  series  which  Max  Lieb- 
man built  around  Buddy's  distinct  person- 
ality. ...  In  less  than  ten  years,  Buddy 
had  become  a  star.  He  had  served  his  ap- 
prenticeship    and     reaped     his     success. 

When  it  came  to  his  own  personal  life, 
however,  he  was  just  plain  lucky.  All  the 
wonderful  things  that  happened  were  a 
happy  accident.  Every  year,  Buddy  plays 
an  engagement  at  the  Concord — the  big- 
gest hotel  in  the  Catskills.  He  had  met 
Sherry  Cohen,  the  mambo  teacher  there, 
but — "I  was  too  busy,"  he  confesses.  "I 
had  other  things  on  my  mind."  He  knew 
her  a  year  and  a  half  before  he  ever 
dated  her. 

It  happened  at  the  indoor  swimming 
pool.  "I  was  sitting  there  with  a  friend 
of  mine,"  he  recalls,  "and  Sherry  came 
over  and  sat  down  and  we  started  talk- 


ing.  She  said  she  was  going  to  the  city 
next  day,  and  I  happened  to  be  going,  too, 
so  I  said  let's  meet.  Next  day,  we  met 
and  had  a  cup  of  coffee.  Then  we  made  a 
date  for  the  next  day.  'I'll  pick  you  up,'  I 
said.    'I  teach  in  Yonkers,'  she  replied." 

And  so,  as  naturally  as  that,  they 
started  seeing  each  other  every  day.  Sev- 
en weeks  later,  just  as  naturally,  they 
were  married.  Last  June — just  missing 
Father's  Day  by  six  hours — little  Sandy 
Zade  was  born.  "He  weighed  seven 
pounds,  five  ounces,"  the  proud  but 
weiffht-conscious  father  points  out. 

When  they  first  knew  they  would  wed, 
the  Hacketts  started  hunting  for  an  apart- 
ment. They  had  even  rented  one  on 
Manhattan's  Central  Park  West,  but  then 
Buddy  happened  to  go  with  his  friend, 
comedian  Dick  Shawn,  to  play  golf  at  the 
country  club  in  Leonia.  Riding  past  a 
six-room  ranch  house,  Dick  pointed  it 
out  to  Buddy  as  the  home  he  and  his 
wife  once  intended  to  buy,  but  had  finally 
decided  wasn't  big  enough  for  them. 
That's  all  Buddy  needed  to  know.  "I  rang 
the  doorbell,"  he  recalls.  "I  didn't  even 
bother  to  see  the  .inside  of  the  house.  I 
just  gave  the  woman  a  check.  Then  I 
had  to  'con'  Sherry  into  giving  up  the  new 
apartment  and  going  to  live  in  Leonia." 

From  the  very  start,  Buddy  liked 
everything  about  the  house.  "It's  very 
distinctive,"  he  points  out.  "The  guy  who 
built  it  didn't  know  what  he  was  doing 
too  good.  There's  no  definite  style.  The 
architecture — it's  like  me."  But  the  main 
advantage  is  that  it's  "right  off  the  golf 
course  ...  I  can  play  nine  holes  right 
into  the  house,"  Buddy  says.  And  then, 
he  owns  a  piece  of  the  adjoining  country 
club.  When  they're  using  a  tractor  to 
cut  the  grass  on  the  links,  they  also  cut 
the  grass  on  the  Hacketts'  lawn. 

But  Buddy's  main  reason  for  moving 
was  that,  suddenly,  he  "couldn't  live  in 
the  city  any  more."  It  may  be  that  he 
had  succeeded  too  well  in  what  he  started 
out  to  do.  He  wanted  to  make  people 
laugh.  He  wanted  love — "warmth  all 
around."  And  he  had  found  it,  first  in 
his  own  neighborhood — then  in  a  nation- 
wide success.  But  now,  something  new 
had  happened.  Something  more  wonder- 
ful than  anything  he  had  ever  dreamed 
of.  He  didn't  have  to  go  out  to  find  his 
warmth.  It  was  right  there  in  his  own 
house.  And  he  didn't  have  to  make  jokes 
for  it.    All  he  had  to  do  was  share  it. 

Is  it  any  wonder,  then,  that  Buddy  feels 
the  need  to  five  with  his  family  apart 
from  the  world  he  used  to  know — the 
world  of  show  business?  He  is  even  do- 
ing his  best  to  keep  his  wife  and  child  out 
of  any  publicity  pertaining  to  himself. 
And,  once  again,  Buddy's  busy  with  a 
plan.  He's  enlarging  the  house,  installing 
"a  new  modern  kitchen,"  adding  a  bedroom. 

"You  see,"  he  explains,  "we're  going  to 
have  two  more  children."  And  he  says  it 
with  all  the  assurance  of  a  man  who  has 
made  all  his  plans  come  true. 


SEASON'S  GREETINGS 

from  your  all-season  favorites! 
ED  SULLIVAN   •  ELVIS  PRESLEY 

Valiant  Lady's  Betty  Oakes  in  Indiana 
.  .  .  This  Is  Nora  Drake  in  exciting 
pictures  ...  a  new  feature  on  Beauty 
.  .  .  and  a  host  of  other  stories  and 
features  ...  all  in  the 

DECEMBER 
TV  RADIO  MIRROR 

at  your  newsstand  November  6 


basic  quality  of  naturalness  that 
has  always  charmed  and  the 
brightness  that  is  so  excitingly  now. 
You  should  try  it  now. 

Send  for  free  literature  "What  Noreen  can 

do  for  me."  Address  postcard  to  Noreen, 

450  Lincoln  Street,  Denver  3,  Colorado.  Dept  T-2 


She  was 

fashionable 

and 

absolutely 

natural 

THIS  BEAUTY  posed 

for  the  great  Botticelli  who 

painted  her  as  Venus  for  all  the  centuries 

to  envy.  She  was  a  lady  of  the  Renaissance  who 

wore  her  hair  flowing  naturally  because  that  was 

fashion.  And  Botticelli  put  her  on  canvas  just  that  way 

because  he  knew  that  a  beautiful  woman  is  always 

more  beautiful  in  fashion  than  out  of  it. 

TODAY'S  BEAUTY  is  no  beauty  if  she  ignores  the  fashion 
for  bright  hair  because  the  woman  who  lives  fully  in  the 
present  knows  that  drab  hair  is  dated.  So  Noreen  makes 
you  the  colors  that  gently  catch  and  hold  the  light,  that 
gleam  without  glare,  are  utterly  convincing. 

With  no  trouble  at  all  you  can  put  Noreen  on  in  just 
three  minutes  and,  if  you  care  to,  wash  it  off  in 
the  same  time.  Only  Noreen  has  the 


-/1#VC£/V 


COLOR 

HAIR 

RINSE 


of  cosmetic  counters 
every  where, 
also  professionally 
applied  in 
Beauty  Salons. 


65 


(Continued  from  page  31) 
quiet  statement,  "At  last  we  have  a  home 
which  we  feel  is  really  our  own." 

Putting  down  roots  has  been  an  elusive 
goal  for  this  handsome  pair  to  whom 
music  and  marriage  have  brought  consid- 
erable gypsying.  When  they  met  in  Wash- 
ington, D.C.,  in  1948,  dark-haired  Helen 
was  the  petite  young  woman  with  the  big 
career — a  manufacturer's  agent  represent- 
ing heavy-industry  accounts.  Blond,  ath- 
letic Florian  was  starred  at  the  Mayflower 
Hotel.  Born  in  Chicago,  the  son  of  a 
musician  who  had  emigrated  from  Aus- 
tria, he  had  been  guest  soloist  with  the 
Chicago  Symphony  at  the  age  of  twelve, 
had  toured  Europe  at  fourteen  and,  at 
sixteen — in  a  revolutionary-turn  around — 
had  played  country  fiddler  in  the  same 
National  Barn  Dance  unit  which  featured 
boy-soprano  George  Gobel. 

After  four  years  in  the  Army  Medical 
Corps — where,  he  says,  "I  didn't  touch  a 
violin  four  times" — he  joined  the  NBC 
staff  orchestra  in  Chicago.  Striking  out 
on  his  own,  he  first  got  his  name  in  lights 
— and  almost  lost  his  life — at  the  LaSalle 
Hotel.  When  a  disastrous  fire  swept 
through  it,  Florian  plunged  through  flame 
to  rescue  his  precious  Guarnerius  violin — 
and  was  so  seriously  burned  he  spent  two 
months  in  the  hospital. 

Following  their  marriage  in  1949,  Florian 
and  Helen  chese  to  storm  New  York — and 
were  flat  broke  before  Florian  got  his 
spotlight  chance,  appearing  on  Arthur 
Godfrey's  Talent  Scouts  in  1950.  That  led 
to  thirty -three  weeks  as  star  and  master 
of  ceremonies  at  the  Strand  Theater  on 
Broadway — and  eventually  to  his  own 
television  program  for  Guild  Films. 

"We  moved  out  to  Hollywood  with  7,000 
pounds  of  stuff,  and  came  back  with  10,200 
pounds,  mostly  music  and  books,"  says 
Helen.  .  .  .  "And  fishing  tackle,"  Florian 
adds.  "Those  are  my  hobbies,  fishing  and 
music.  I'm  writing  two  books.  One  is  on 
violins  and  violinists,  and  the  other  is  on 
spin  fishing." 

It  was  the  fishing  which  brought  the 
ZaBachs  to  their  present  location  on 
the  New  York-Connecticut  border.  Says 
Helen,  "We  like  the  casualness  of  country 
living — and  we  also  had  too  much  house- 
hold for  Manhattan  to  be  comfortable. 
My  daughter  Julia  is  just  at  the  age  where 
a  girl  wants  some  space  which  she  feels  is 
her  very  own.  And  our  dogs  like  to 
scamper."  They  have  two  miniature 
Schnauzers.  Helen  explains  their  names: 
"Prince  Florazell  sounded  as  though  he 
should  belong  to  Florian — and  we  called 
the  second  one  McCollam  in  honor  of  my 
father." 

Any  site  they  chose  must  include  a 
place  to  fish,  they  decided.  Helen  located 
one:  "I  had  stayed  home  that  Sunday, 
saying  I  had  to  check  the  classified  ads. 
Florian  was  sure  that  was  no  way  to  find 
our  kind  of  place.  But  an  ad  caught  my 
eye  because,  after  describing  the  house, 
it  also  read,  'Additional  six  acres  available 
with  fish  pond.'  That  place  didn't  quite 
suit  us.  But,  going  to  look  at  it,  we  found 
one  in  the  neighborhood  which  did." 

Almost  as  soon  as  they  moved  in  last 

fall,    they    planned    to    move    again — for, 

down   the   road,   they   found   their  heart's 

desire.      "The    foundations     of    this    new 

house   were   already   in,"   Helen   explains, 

"but  we  were  able  to  revise  the  plans  to 

T    make  it  just  what  we've  always  wanted." 

v        Their  enthusiasm  for  the  place  is  infec- 

R     tious.    A  guest  begins  to  feel  a  sense  of 

excitement  as  soon   as   Helen   gives  road 

directions  for  the  drive  from  Manhattan. 

The    complicated    list    of    landmarks    and 

66 


Heart's  Desire 

turns  makes  the  whole  trip  like  a  treasure 
hunt,  and  the  way  leads  past  platinum- 
plated  estates  and  through  lovely  old  vil- 
lages. Pound  Ridge,  New  York,  is  their 
post  office,  but  there  is  still  some  distance 
to  drive.  "Go  clear  to  the  end  of  the 
road,"  Helen  says.  "You'll  find  a  split- 
level  ranch  house.    That's   ours." 

You'll  also  find  a  view.  The  site  has 
been  carved  in  a  broad,  flattened  sweep 
from  the  side  of  a  curving  hill.  Along  the 
front  and  one  end  of  the  lot,  the  hill 
drops  down  so  sharply  that  iawn  and 
treetops  seem  to  merge.  Through  their 
feathery  branches,  you  look  out  across  a 
miles-wide  valley.  At  the  rear  of  the 
house,  the  upward  slope  is  wooded,  too. 
A  path  winding  through  this  forest  leads 
to  Florian's  favorite  stream.  "If  I  fish  an 
hour  or  so  just  before  dark,"  he  boasts, 
"we're  sure  to  have  brook  trout  for 
breakfast." 

Helen's  comment  on  the  architectural 
design  is  strictly  housewifely:  "We  never 
realized  how  split-level  this  was  going 
to  be — until  we  moved  in.  Actually,  there 
are  five  levels,  three  opening  directly  out- 
doors. First,  there  is  the  garage  and  base- 
ment.    Next,    the    patio,    recreation    room 


-en- 


AN   OPEN   LETTER 

TO 

OUR  READERS 

OUR  ADVERTISERS 

TV  RADIO  MIRROR  mag- 
azine is  proud  to  be  a  mem- 
ber of  the  Audit  Bureau  of 
Circulations,  which,  this 
month,  is  celebrating  its  for- 
ty-second year  of  service  to 
our  readers  and  to  our  ad- 
vertisers. 

The  Audit  Bureau  of  Circu- 
lations, better  known  as  the 
ABC,  contributes  to  your  en- 
joyment of  TV  RADIO  MIR- 
ROR. By  studying  ABC  fig- 
ures, we  have  a  guide  for  the 
type  of  material  you  prefer 
— thus  can  bring  you  what 
you  want  to  read,  when  you 
want  to  read  it. 
Too,  the  Audit  Bureau  of 
Circulations  makes  it  possi- 
ble for  us  to  measure  our 
circulation  growth,  bringing 
a  sound  picture  to  our  adver- 
tisers of  TV  RADIO  MIR- 
ROR'S tremendous  audience. 
By  studying  our  circulation 
figures,  the  advertiser  can 
know  that  he  is  delivering 
a  message  to  you  through 
TV  RADIO  MIRROR's  pages 
— a  message  which,  in  turn, 
will  have  been  profitable  for 
him  to  tell. 

TV  RADIO  MIRROR  joins 
with  the  other  3700  Audit 
Bureau  of  Circulations  mem- 
bers in  saluting  the  forty-two 
years  of  self-regulation  of  our 
publishing  industry. 

'the  editors 


and  Julia's  room.  And,  on  the  front- 
trance  level,  there's  the  living  room,  din 
ing  room-kitchen  and  Florian's  studio. 
Above  them  are  the  bedrooms  and  attic. 
It  makes  a  lot  of  steps,  but  we  love  it. 
Each  of  us  has  privacy,  yet  we're  all  to- 
gether." 

In  the  living  room,  the  keynote  is 
set  by  sea-blue  walls  on  three  sides.  On 
the  fourth,  a  rough  stone  fireplace  is 
flanked  by  highly  polished  blond  Samara 
mahogany  panelling.  A  huge  picture- 
window  opens  the  house  to  the  view  of 
the  valley.  Rugs  are  a  soft  grayed-rose, 
and  major  pieces  are  upholstered  in  dark 
red  tweed.  It's  a  gracious  room  of  pleas- 
ant contrasts. 

Julia's  personal  quarters,  too,  would 
fulfill  any  teenager's  rosiest  daydream, 
for  adjoining  her  dainty  French  Provencal 
bedroom  and  bath  is  the  recreation  room 
and  patio.  Florian  is  claiming  one  corner 
for  his  billiard  table,  but — with  a  televi- 
sion set,  a  record  player,  a  floor  which 
no  amount  of  dancing  can  scuff,  and  a 
huge  sofa  in  front  of  the  fireplace — it  is 
bound  to  become  a  place  which  the  kids 
feel  is  the  absolute  most. 

Florian's  own  studio  is  set  up  both  for 
work  and  enjoyment.  Again,  there  is  a 
huge  picture-window,  bringing  in  the 
scenic  wonder  of  the  valley.  On  the  shelf 
below  it,  music  lies  adjacent  to  outdoor 
magazines.  "I  subscribe  to  most  fishing 
publications  printed,"  Florian  says.  Cabi- 
nets hold  his  tape  recorder  and  violins. 
His  music  rack  stands  close.  "If  I  get  an 
idea  while  I'm  fishing — and  I  often  do," 
he  explains,  "it's  handy  for  me  to  tran- 
scribe a  musical  note  to  myself  as  soon  as 
I  come  in."  The  Haitian  drums  he  col- 
lects stand  along  the  wall,  and  he  plans 
cases  to  hold  his  fishing  gear.  A  desk  and 
deep  lounge  chairs  complete  the  picture 
of  a  place  where  a  man  can  work,  think, 
or  just  plain  loaf. 

The  heart  of  the  house,  however,  is  the 
combined  dining  room  and  kitchen.  "This 
is  where  we  really  changed  the  architect's 
plans,"  Helen  says.  "Instead  of  having 
the  conventional  two  rooms,  we  threw 
them  together."  She  had  a  reason:  "Din- 
ner at  our  house  can  be  at  five  o'clock 
one  night  and  ten  the  next,  depending  on 
Florian's  schedule.  I  do  all  the  cooking, 
and  it's  no  fun  to  have  either  family  or 
guests  in  the  living  room  when  I'm  shut 
up  alone  in  the  kitchen." 

The  snack  bar,  which  also  serves  as  a 
room  divider,  is  Florian's  particular  pride. 
"It's  built  just  like  a  butcher's  block,"  he 
says.  "These  are  three-inch  strips  of 
laminated  maple."  Here,  while  Helen  pre- 
pares the  main  dishes,  Florian  constructs 
his  special  salads. 

Theirs  is  a  house  where  the  coffee  pot 
is  always  on  the  warmer.  "It  just  seems 
to  go  with  good  conversation,"  says  Helen. 
And  the  conversation  was  good  as  Florian, 
cup  in  hand,  talked  of  his  music  and  what 
it  means  to  him.  He  recalled,  with  a  laugh, 
how  he  first  met  George  Gobel  in  Chicago: 
"I'd  just  returned  from  a  recital  tour  of 
Europe  and  I  thought  I  was  something 
akin  to  the  young  Paganini.  I  was  expect- 
ing concert  bookings  when  I  got  a  call 
from  a  fellow  who  announced,  'My  name 
is  George.  Are  you  working  Saturday 
night?     Well,  do  you  want  to?' " 

It  was  like  a  Gobel  TV  script.  When 
Florian  asked  if  he  should  be  prepared 
with  concert  music,  he  was  told  they  did 
not  play  classics.  When  he  asked  if  they 
played  popular  tunes,  he  was  told,  "Not 
exactly."  When,  in  desperation,  he  asked, 
"What  do  you  do?" — the  then-unknown 
George  at  the  end  of  the  line  replied, 
"Well,   I  guess  we  just  play.     We'll  pick 


you  up  by  car  at  Diversey  and  Sheridan." 

When  Florian,  in  his  London-tailored 
pin  stripe  suit,  noticed  the  exceedingly 
casual  attire  of  the  young  men  in  the  car, 
he  worried  about  whether  he  should  have 
brought  his  tail  coat.  Anxiously,  he  asked, 
"Are  you  going  to  change?"  He  laughs 
at  the  recollection:  "They  changed  all 
right — into  dungarees.  And  they  also  re- 
hearsed— in  front  of  the  audience,  which 
included  the  governor  of  Illinois.  That's 
how  I  learned  to  play  hillbilly.  It  was  a 
National  Barn  Dance  unit,  with  George 
as  boy  soprano.  I  worked  with  them  for 
more  than  a  year." 

Their  play-for-fun  attitude,  plus  his 
father's  teaching,  had  a  lasting  effect  on 
Florian.  "My  father  was  a  strict  discipli- 
narian," he  remarks,  "but  he  also  had  the 
idea  music  was  for  the  enjoyment  of  all 
who  listen.  Although  Heifetz  is  my  idol, 
I  don't  think  every  violinist  should  try 
to  be  a  Heifetz.  The  violin  has  been  held 
up    as    a   much    too    serious    instrument." 

Florian  makes  the  most  of  what  he 
calls  "the  violin's  great  advantage — it's 
a  mobile  instrument.  You  can  make  it 
personal  music."  Although  he  has  won 
the  reputation  of  playing  "hot  violin," 
he  does  not  consider  himself  a  jazz  man: 
"At  least  not  like  some  of  those  in  Chicago. 
George  and  the  gang  of  us,  on  our  nights 
off,  used  to  go  over  to  Isbell's  and  sit  for 
hours  listening  to  Chet  Roble  and  his 
crew.     I  absorbed  some  of  it  by  osmosis." 

That  "osmosis"  influenced  his  first  big 
record:  "I  made  six  for  Decca,  and  the 
only  one  in  the  group  that  we  argued 
over — that  they  didn't  want,  but  I  insisted 
on  playing — was  a  fifty-year- old  violin 
exercise  called  'Hot  Canary.'  And  that 
was  the  only  one  which  turned  out  to  be 
a  hit."  Pleased  as  he  is  with  what  that 
canary  did  for  him,  he  has  grown  a  little 
tired  of  its  song:  "I  never  program  it  any 
more,  but,  at  every  theater,  night  club  and 
concert,  people  call  for  it  and  I  do  it  as  an 
encore." 

He  is  proudest  that  after  nearly  every 
show  someone  always  says,  "I  never  liked 
the  violin  until  I  heard  you  play."  Says 
Florian,  "When  the  day  of  the  little  string 
ensemble  passed,  the  violin  became  the 
most  easily  left-out  instrument  in  any 
small  orchestra.  In  school  music  classes, 
perhaps  two  out  of  a  hundred  kids  wanted 
to  learn  it.     That  seems  to  be  changing." 

One  evidence  of  the  change  is  the  fact 
that  Peter  J.  Wilhouski,  director  of  music 
for  the  Board  of  Education  of  the  City 
of  New  York,  rotates  a  ZaBach  film — 
spliced  from  four  television  shows — 
through  all  public  schools.  Besides  sup- 
plying entertainment  in  assemblies,  it  is 
also  used  for  instruction  in  music  classes. 
Other  schools  have  awarded  plaques  and 
scrolls  to  mark  their  appeciation  of  what 
ZaBach  has  done  to  re-popularize  the 
violin.    These  are  to  hang  in  his  studio. 

Busy  as  Florian  is,  with  television  and 
personal  appearances,  the  concert  of  the 
year  which  means  the  most  to  him  is 
played  right  in  his  own  living  room.  As 
Helen  says,  "We're  never  sure  whether 
Florian  will  be  home  or  on  the  road  on 
our  anniversary,  birthdays,  or  Thanksgiv- 
ing— such  days  that  families  usually  cele- 
brate— so  we  concentrate  everything  on 
Christmas.  His  mother  comes  to  visit  us — 
his  father  died  in  1951 — and,  on  Christmas 
Eve,  we  have  our  music.  Florian  is  teach- 
ing Julia  to  play  the  violin.  And  although 
I'm  not  much  of  a  pianist,  I  manage  a  few 
notes.  We  sing  all  the  Christmas  songs, 
and  our  little  musicale  always  ends  with 
Florian  playing  'Ave  Maria.'  It  makes  the 
tears  just  roll  down  my  cheeks,  it's  so 
beautiful.  That's  when  I,  too,  feel  that 
Florian's  right  when  he  calls  the  violin, 
'personal  music.'" 


TRUE  ROMANCE 


SWEETHEART-ACHE 


iMJ0S»«X(MSaKT€» 
*M»  WtOtt  THE  OTMES  «WXf 


AT  NEWSSTANDS  NOW 


don 't  miss . . . 

"MAMA 
HATED 
ME" 


...  a  tense,  drama-packed 
story  of  a  woman  whose  hate 
bred  misery 

Also  in  this  issue  of 


TRUE  ROMANCE 

FREE  OF  HIM 

.  .  .  "work,"  Molly  told  herself,  "keep  busy,  forget  him, 
don't  give  in  to  monotony."    Could  you? 

ONE  WOMAN  WASN'T  ENOUGH 

.  .  .  Tess  Was  Arnold's  investment  and  what  he  couldn't 
buy,  he  stole 

SWEETHEART-ACHE 

.  .  .  the  tender  story  of  a  teen's  first  love 

ALSO 

RHEUMATIC  FEVER 

.  .  .  the  heartwarming  drama  of  another  miracle  of  science 

TRUE  ROMANCE 

MAGAZINE 

stories   from   life — drama,   excitement,   reality 
And  don't  miss  the  fabulous  $20,000  story  contest 
You  can  be  a  winner 

Details  in  current  issue  of  TRUE  ROMANCE  magazine 
AT  NEWSSTANDS  NOW 


67 


All  times  listed  are  Eastern  Daylight 
Time.  These  are  network  programs.  Local 
stations    may    substitute    or    re-schedule. 


nside  Radio 

NOTE:   World  Series  Baseball  starts  October  3rd  on  Mutual 
Broadcasting  System,  pre-empting  regularly  scheduled  programs. 


Monday  through  Friday 


NBC 


MBS 


ABC 


CBS 


Moi 

8:30 
8:45 

-ning   Progra 

ins 

Local  Program 

9:00 
9:15 
9:30 

Robert  Hurleigh 
Easy  Does  It 

Breakfast  Club 

News  Of  America 

10:00 
10:15 

10:30 
10:45 

Bandstand,  with 
Bert  Parks 

Cecil  Brown 
Footnotes  To 

Medical  History 
Five-Star  News 
10:35  Johnny  Olsen 

My  True  Story 

When  A  Girl  Marries 
Whispering  Streets 

Arthur  Godfrey  Time 

11:00 

11:15 
11:30 

11:45 

Bandstand  (con.) 

News 

1 1 :05  Story  Time 
Holland  Engle 
Queen  For  A  Day 

Grand  Central 

Station 
Jack  Paar  Show 
News 
11:35  Your  Happy 

Holiday 

Arthur  Godfrey 
(con.) 

This  Is  Kathy 

Godfrey 
Howard  Miller  Show 

Afternoon   Programs 


12:00 

12:15 
12:30 
12:45 

Noon  News 
12:05  Story  Time 
Constance  Bennett 

Valentino 
Frank  Farrell 

Wendy  Warren  ft 

The  News 
Backstage  Wife 
Helen  Trent 
Our  Gal  Sunday 

1:00 
1:15 

1:30 
1:45 

News,  Cedric  Foster 
A  Ladd's  Modern 

Moods 
Luncheon  With 

Lopez 

Pauf  Harvey,  News 
Ted  Malone 

Road  Of  Life 
Aunt  Jenny 

Young  Dr.  Malone 
The  Guiding  Light 

2:00 

2:15 
2:30 
2:45 

News,  Sam  Hayes 
2:05  Jazz  Roost 

Mutual  Matinee 

Martin  Block 

News,  Bill  Downs 
2:05  Right  To  Happi- 
ness 
Second  Mrs.  Burton 
This  Is  Nora  Drake 
Just  Entertainment, 
Pat  Buttram 

3:00 
3:15 
3:30 
3:45 

Five  Star  Matinee 

Hilltop  House 
Pepper  Young's 
Family 

Bandstand,  U.S.A. 

Martin  Block  (con.) 

Linkletter's  House 

Partv 
Sunshine  Sue 

4:00 
4:15 

4:30 
4:45 

Woman  In  Mv  House 
Mary  Margaret 

McBride 
Fred  Waring  Show 

News 

4:05  Matinee  With 

Dick  Willard 
U.S.  Military  Band 

Treasury  Bandstand 

5:00 
5:15 
5:30 

5:45 

Cafe  Lounge 

It's  New 

5:35  Business  World 

Sportarama 

5:55  George  Gallup 

Bob  And  Ray 

Here's  Hollywood 
5:50  Sports  Time 
5:55  News 

Monday 

|    Evening   P 

rograms 

News 

6:35  Mel  Allen, 
Sports 

6:0 
6:3 

6:4 

0 

1 

5 

Three  Star  Extra 

Local  Program 

Jackson  ft  The  News 
Lowell  Thomas 

7:00 

7:15 
7:30 
7:45 

Alex  Dreier,  Man 
On  The  Go 

News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 

Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 

Dinner  Date 
Gabriel  Heatter 
What's  Your  Opin- 
ion? 

Ed  Morgan,  News 

Quincy  Howe 
Mike  Malloy, 
Private  Eye 
7:55  News 

News  Analysis, 

LeSeuer 
7:05  Amos  V  Andy 
7:25  Dr.  Baxter 
Bing  Crosby 
Edward  R.  Murrow 

8:00 
8:15 

8:30 
8:45 

Henry  Taylor 
Boston  Symphony 

True  Detective 
Mysteries 

Danger  With  Granger 

American  Music 

Hall 
8:25  News 
Voice  of  Firestone* 

Robert  0.  Lewis 
Show 

Arthur  Godfrey's 
Talent  Scouts 

9:00 

9:15 

9:30 
9:45 

Telephone  Hour 
Contrasts  In  Music 

News,  Lyle  Van 
9:05  Bob  And  Ray 
Behind  The  Iron 

Curtain 
Reporters'  Roundup 

News 

9:05  American  Music 

Hall 
9:25   News 
Best  Bands  In 

The  Land 
9:55  News 

Personality 

News,  Collingwood 
9:05  My  Son,  Jeep 
Johnny  Dollar 

Capitol  Cloakroom 

9:55  News,  Trout 

10:0 
10:1 
10:3 

D 
5 
0 

NBC  News 

10:05  Chet  Huntley 

This  World  of  Music 

Operation 
Entertainment 

Music  From 
Studio  X 

News 

10:05  Imagination, 

With  Milton  Cross 
10:25  News 
Imagination  (con.) 

The  World  Tonight 
10:05  Orchestra 

68 


•Oct.  8,  Thomas  L.  Thomas;  Oct.  15,  Dorothy  War- 
enskjold;  Oct.  22,  Jerome  Mines. 


Tuesday 


6:00 
6:30 
6:45 


7:00 

7:15 

7:30 
7:45 


8:00 
8:15 
8:30 


9:00 

9:15 
9:30 


10:00 

10:15 
10:30 


6:00 
6:30 
6:45 


NBC 


Three  Star  Extra 


Alex   Dreier, 
Man  On  The  Go 


News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


Dragnet 
X  Minus  One 


Biographies 
In  Sound 


NBC  News 
10:05  Chet  Huntley 
This  World  Of  Music 
Ken  Nordine 


Evening 

MBS 
Local   Program 


Programs 
ABC 


News 

6:35  Mel  Allen 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 

Dinner  Date 

Gabriel  Heatter 
Eddie  Fisher 


Treasury  Agent 
Big  City 


News,  Lyle  Van 
9:05  Bob  And  Ray 
Dateline  Defense 
Army  Hour 


Music  From 
Studio  X 


Ed  Morgan,  News 
Quincy  Howe 
Sherlock  Holmes 

7:55  News 


American  Music  Hall 
8:25  News 
American  Music  Hall 


American  Music  Hall 

9:25  News 
Best  Bands  Of 
The  Land 


News 

10:05  Imagination 
10:25  News 
Imagination  (con.) 


CBS 

Jackson  &  The  News 

Lowell  Thomas 


News  Analysis, 

LeSeuer 
7:05  Amos  V  Andy 
7:25  Dr.  Baxter 
Bing  Crosby 
Edward  R.  Murrow 


Robert  Q.  Lewis 

Show 
Suspense 


News,  Herman 
9:05  My  Son,  Jeep 
Johnny  Dollar 
Campaign  '56 
9:55  News 


The  World  Tonight 
10:05  Dance  M 


Wednesday 


7:00 
7:15 

7:30 
7:45 


8:00 
8:15 
8:30 


9:00 

9:15 
9:30 
9:45 


10:00 

10:15 
10:30 


6:00 
6:30 
6:45 


Three  Star  Extra 


Alex  Dreier, 
Man  On  The  Go 

News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


Great  Gildersleeve 

Recollections  At  30 
8:55  News 


Sound  Flight 


7:00 

7:15 

7:30 
7:45 


8:00 
8:15 
8:30 


9:00 

9:15 
9:30 
9:45 


10:00 
10:15 
10:30 


NBC  News 

10:05  Chet  Huntley 

This  Is  Moscow 


Thursday 


Three  Star  Extra 


Evening    Programs 

Local   Program 

News 

6:35  Mel  Allen 


" 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
Dinner  Date 

Gabriel  Heatter 
What's  Your  Opinion? 


Gang  Busters 

Crime  Files  of 
Flamond 


Press  Conference 


Family  Theater 


Alex  Dreier, 
Man  On  The  Go 


News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


People  Are  Funny 
Conversation 


News 

Stars  In  Action 


NBC  News 
10:05  Chet  Huntley 
Carling  Conserva- 
tion Club 
Jane   Pickens  Show 


Friday 


Music  From 
Studio  X 


Evening 

Local  Program 


Ed  Morgan  News 
Quincy  Howe 

Masters  Of  Mystery 
7:55  News 


American  Music  Half 
8:25  News 
American  Music  Hall 


American  Music  Hall 

9:25  News 
Best  Bands 
Of  The  Land 


News 

10:05  Imagination 
10:25  News 
Imagination  (con.) 


Programs 


News 

6:35  Mel  Allen 


Jackson  ft  The  News 
Lowell  Thomas 


News,  LeSeuer 
7:05  Amos  V  Andy 
7:25  Dr.  Baxter 
Bing  Crosby 
Edward   R.  Murrow 


Robert  Q.  Lewis 

Show 
Pick  The  Winner 


News,  Collingwood 
9:05  My  Son,  Jeep 
Johnny  Dollar 
Washington  ft  The 

World 
9:55  News 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 

Dinner  Date 

Gabriel  Heatter 
Eddie  Fisher 


Official  Detective 

It's  A  Crime,  Mr. 
Collins 


News,  Lyle  Van 
9:05  Bob  And  Ray 
U.N.  Radio  Review 
State  Of  The  Nation 


Music  From 
Studio  X 


Ed  Morgan,  News 

Quincy  Howe 

Mystery  Classic 
7:55  News 


American  Music  Hall 
8:25  News 
American  Music  Hall 


American  Music  Hall 

9:25  News 
Best  Bands  Of 
The  Land 


News 

10:05  Imagination 

10:25  News 
Imagination  (con.) 


The  World  Tonight 
10:05  Music 


Jackson  &  The  News 
Lowell  Thomas 


News  Analysis, 

LeSeuer 
7:05  Amos  V  Andy 
7:25  Dr.  Baxter 
Bing  Crosby 
Edward  R.  Murrow 


Robert  Q.  Lewis 

Show 
21st  Precinct 


News,  Herman 
9:05  My  Son,  Jeep 
Johnny  Dollar 
The  Leading 
Question 


The  World  Tonight 
10:05  Dance  Music  i 


Evening   Programs 


6:00 

Local  Program 

Jackson  ft  The  Newt 

6:30 

News 

6:45 

Three  Star  Extra 

6:35  Mel  Allen 

Lowell  Thomas 

7:00 

Alex  Dreier, 
Man  On  The  Go 

Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 

Ed  Morgan,  News 

News  Analysis, 
LeSeuer 

7:15 

Dinner  Date 

Quincy  Howe 

7:05  Amos  'n'  Andy 
7:25  Dr.  Baxter 

7:30 

News  Of  The  World 

Gabriel  Heatter 

Police  Blotter 

Bing  Crosby 

7:45 

One   Man's   Family 

What's  Your  Opin- 
ion? 

7:55  News 

Edward    R.    Murrow 

i| 

8:00 

National   Radio   Fan 

Counter-Spy 

American  Music  Hall 

Robert  Q.  Lewis 

8:15 

Club 

8:25  News 

Show 

8:30 

City  Editor 

American  Music  Hall 

CBS  Radio  Workshop 

9:00 

NBC    Job   Clinic 

News,  Lyle  Van 

American  Music  Hall 

News.  Collingwood  I 

9:05  Radio  Fan  Club 

9:05  Bob  and  Ray 

9:05  My  Son,  Jeep 

9:15 

(con.) 

UN  Radio  Review 

9:25  News 

Johnny  Dollar 

9:30 

True  Or  False 

Best  Bands  Of 

So  They  Say 

9:45 

Victor  Riesel,  Inside 
Story 

The  Land 

9:55  News 

10:00 

Cavalcade  Of  Sports 

Music  From  Studio  X 

News 

10:05  Imagination 

The  World  Tonight 
10:05  Dance  Music 

10:15 

10:25  News 

10:30 

Sports  Highlights 

Imagination  (con.) 

nside  Radio 


Saturday 


NBC 


Morning    Programs 


MBS 


ABC 


CBS 


8:30 
8:45 

Local  Program 

8:55  News 

News 

9:00 

9:15 

"9:30 

.9:45 

Monitor 

No  School  Today 

News  Of  America 
Farm  News 

Garden  Gate 

10:00 
10:15 
10:30 
10:45 

itUOO 

1:15 
11:30 
11:45 

Monitor 

News 

I've  Been  Reading 

No  School 

Today  (con.) 
All  League 

Clubhouse 

News,  Jackson 
10:05  Galen  Drake 

Show 
10:50  Slenderella 

Show 

Monitor 

News 

11:05  I  Ask  YOU 

Musical    Wheel    Of 
Chance 

News 

11:05  Charley 

Applewhite 
Platterbrains 

News,  Calmer 
11:05  Robert  0. 
Lewis  Show 

Afternoon    Programs 


2:00 

12:15 
12:30 
2:45 


1:00 
1:15 
1:30 

1:45 


2:00 

2:15 
2:30 


National  Farm  & 
Home  Hour 

Groucho  Marx— You 
Bet  Your  Life 


Monitor 


Monitor 


News 

12:05  Magic  of 

Music 
American  Living 


For  Teens  Only 


News 

2:05  Fifth  Army 

Band 
Lucky   Pierre 


3:00  i  Monitor 


3:15 
3:30 


I 


Notre  Dame- 
Football  Schedule: 
10/6  Indiana; 

:  10/13  Purdue; 
10/20  Michigan 
State; 

110/27  Oklahoma; 

1 11/3  Navy.  (Note: 
Navy  game  comes 
on  at  2:00  P.M.) 


5:00  j Monitor 

5:15 
5:30 
5:45  I 


4:00    Monitor 

4:15  I 
4:30  i 
4:45  I 


News 

5:05  All-Sports  Quiz 


5:55  Cecil  Brown 


Evening    Programs 

6:00   Monitor  John  T.  Flynn 


6:15 
6:30 

6:45 


7:00 

7:15 

+-7:30 


8:00 

.8:15 

6:30 

1-8:45 


9:00 

1:15 

l:30 


l:00 

1:15 
30 


Monitor 


Monitor 


Monitor 
Grand  Ole  Opry 


Monitor 


World  Traveler 
Report  From 
Washington 
Dinner  Date 
6:55  News 


Pop  The  Question 
Hawaii  Calls 


Bandstand,  U.S.A. 


Bandstand  (con.) 


Renfro  Valley 
Barn  Dance 


News 

12:05  World  Tourist 
101  Ranch  Boys 
American  Farmer 


News 

1:05   Navy  Hour 

Shake  The  Maracas 


College  Football 


College  Football 
(con.) 


News,  Jackson 
12:05  Romance 

Gunsmoke 

12:55  Weather  Along 
The  Highways 


News,  Jackson 
1:05  City  Hospital 
Man  About 

The  House 
Adventures  In 

Science 


College  Football 


News 

4:05  Festival 


News 

5:05  Dinner  At  The 
Green  Room 


News 

6:05  Pan-American 

Union 
Sports  Kaleidoscope 

Basil  Rathbone 


College  Football 
(con.) 


News,  Cochran 
4:05  Treasury  Show 

(con.) 
Larry  Faith  Orch. 


News 

7:05  At  Ease 

Unit  99 


News 

8:05  Vincent  Lopez 

It's  Your  Business 
As  We  See  It 


News 

9:05  National  Juke 

Box 
Sports 
9:35  Best  Bands 


News 

10:05  Lawrence  Welk 

Army  Show 
Sports 
10:35  Rhythm  On 

Parade 


News,  Cochran 
Make  Way  For  Youth 


News 

6:05  New  Orleans 

Jazz  Band  Ball 
Saturday  At  The 

Chase 


News 

7:05  Juke  Box  Jury 

7:55  Weather  Along 
The  Highways 


News.  Jackson 
8:05  Treasury  Of 

Music 
Upbeat  Saturday 

Night 


News 

9:05  Saturday  Night, 
Country  Style 


News 

10:05  Dance  Band 

Basin  Street  Jazz 


Sunday 


NBC 


MBS 


ABC 


CBS 


Morning    Programs 

8:30 

Bible  Study  Hour 

Oral  Roberts 

Light  &  Life  Hour 

Renfro  Valley 

8:45 

8:55  Galen  Drake 

9:00 

World  News  Roundup 

Wings  Of  Healing 

News 
9:05GreatComposers 

World  News  Roundup 

9:15 

Art  Of  Living 

The  Music  Room 

9:30 

Voice  Of  Prophecy 

Back  To  God 

Voice  of  Prophecy 

Church    Of   The    Air 

9:45 

10:00 

National  Radio 

Radio  Bible  Class 

News 

News,  Trout 

10:15 

Pulpit 

10:05  Message  Of 
Israel 

10:05   E.   Power 
Biggs 

10:30 

Monitor 

Voice  Of  Prophecy 

News 

Invitation  To 

10:45 

10:35  College  Choir 
Sunday  Melodies 

Learning 

11:00 

Monitor 

Frank  And  Ernest 

News 

11:05   Marines   On 

11:05  Washington 

11:15 

How  Christian 
Science  Heals 

Review 

Week 

11:30 

11:35  New  World 

Northwestern 

News 

Salt  Lake  Tabernacle 

11:45 

Reviewing  Stand 

11:35  Christian  In 
Action 

Choir 

Afternoon   Programs 


12:00 

12:15 
12:30 
12:45 

Monitor 

The  Eternal  Light 

As  1  See  It 

News,  Bill  Cunning- 
ham 

How  Christian 
Science  Heals 

12:20  Basil 
Rathbone 
Front  And  Center 

News,  Robert  Trout 
12:05  The  Fabulous 

Dorseys 
World  Affairs 

Guy  Lombardo  Time 

12:55  Weather 
Along  The  High- 
ways 

1:00 
1:15 

1:30 
1:45 

Monitor 
Lutheran  Hour 

Front  Page  Exclusive 
American  Travel 

Guide 
Lutheran  Hour 

Herald  Of  Truth 

News 

1:35   Pilgrimage 

Woolworth   Hour- 
Percy   Faith, 
Oonald  Woods 

2:00 
2:15 
2:30 

Monitor 

The  Catholic  Hour 

Music   From   Britain 
Band  Concert 

Dr.  Oral  Roberts 
Wings  Of  Healing 

2:05  World  Music 
Festivals* 

3:00 
3:15 
3:30 
3:45 

Monitor 

Bands  For  Bonds 

News 

3:05  Sammy  Kaye 

Billy  Graham 

Music  Festival  (con.) 

Music  On  A  Sunday 
Afternoon 

4:00 
4:15 
4:30 
4:45 

Monitor 

Bands  For  Bonds 
(con.) 

Old-Fashioned 
Revival  Hour 

News 

4:05   Music   On  A 

Sunday   Afternoon 

(con.) 

5:00 
5:15 

5:30 
5:45 

Monitor 

5:05  World  Theater 

Lombardoland, 
U.S.A. 

Bands  For  Bonds 

(con.) 
5:55   Wismer, 
Baseball  Scores 

Disaster 

5:25  Van  Voorhis, 

News 
Greatest  Story  Ever 

Told 

News 

5:05  Indictment 

Fort  Laramie 

'Oct.  7  &  14,  Stagione  Simfonica,  Italy;  beginning 
Oct.     21,     New     York     Philharmonic-Symphony 


Evening    Programs 


6:00 

Monitor 

Walter  Winchell 

Don  Gardner,  News 

News 

6:05  FBI  In  Peace 

6:15 

Tomorrow's 
Headlines 
William  Hillman 

Paul  Harvey 

And  War 

6:30 

News 

Quincy  Howe 

Gunsmoke 

6:35  Meet  The  Press 

6:45 

Snorts.  Wismer 
6:55  The  Fabled 
World 

George  Sokolsky 

7:00 

Monitor 

By  The  People 

News 

7:05  Bryson  Rash 

News  Analysis 
7:05  Mitch  Miller 

7:15 

Overseas  Assignment 

Show 

7:30 

Pan-American 
Panorama 

Sports 

7:35   All   Star 

7:45 

Country   Show 

7:55  Weather  Along 
The  Highways 

8:00 

Monitor 

Hour  Of  Decision 

News 

B:05  All  Star  Country 

News,  George  Herman 
8:05  Meet  Corliss 

8:15 

Show  (con.) 

Archer 

8:30 

Lutheran  Hour 

Sports 

9:00 

Monitor 

Sounding  Board 

News 

News 

9:15 

Tomorrow's 
Headlines 

9:05  Country  Show 
(con.) 

9:30 

Manion  Forum 

Sports 

9:35  Country  Show 

9:45 

Keep  Healthy 
Wings  Of  Healing 

(con.) 

9:55  Jim  McKay 

10:00 

Billy  Graham 

News,  E.  D.  Canham 

News 

10:15 

Travel  Talk 

10:05  Face  The  Na- 
tion 

10:30 

American  Forum 

Bonsoir  Paris 

Revival  Time 

Church  Of  The  Air 

See   Next  Page- 


69 


TV  program  highlights 


NETWORKS 

O  CBS  flagship  station 
O  NBC  flagship  station 
©   ABC  flagship  station 


NEW  YORK  CITY  AND  SUBURBS  AND  NEW  HAVEN  CHANNEL   8,  OCTOBER  4- NOVEMBER  5 


Note:  World  Series  starts  October  3  on  NBC    O    and  takes 
precedence  over  regularly  scheduled  programs. 


7:00 

e 

O 

8:00  0 

8:30 

o 

9:00 

o 

10:00 

o 

o 

10:30 

o 

o 

© 

11:00 

o 

11:30  O 

G 

12:00 

o 

o 

12:15 

o 

12:30 

© 

§ 

12:45 

o 

1:00 

0 

1:10 

e 

1:30 

o 

o 

2:00 

© 

o 

© 

2:30 

© 

3:00 

o 

o 

© 

o 

3:30 

o 

4:00 

0 

o 

0 

4:15 

0 

4:30 

0 

5:00 

o 

0 

0 

0 

7:15 

o 

o 

7:30 

© 

7:45 

o 

11:00 

0 

0 

11:10 

o 

11:15 

0 

11:30 

o 

Monday  through  Friday 


Good  Morning— Will  Rogers,  Jr. 
Today— Gargle  with  Garroway 
Captain  Kangaroo— Kiddie  Kapers 
It's  Fun  To  Reduce — Figure  control 
Romper  Room — For  pre-schoolers 
Garry  Moore— and   merrier 
Ding    Dong   School— TV   Nursery 
Godfrey  Time— Mon.  thru  Thurs. 
Bandstand — Bert  Parks,  emcee 
Road  Of  Romance 
Home — Arlene  Francis,  femcee 
Strike  It  Rich-Hull's  here 
Martin    Block    Show— Platter-chatter 
Valiant  Lady — Flora  Campbell  stars 
Tic  Tac  Dough— Jack  Barry  quiz 
[I]  Love  Of  Life— Stars  Jean  McBride 
[nJ  Search  For  Tomorrow— Serial 
It  Could  Be  You — Bill  Leyden  emcee 
Joe  Franklin's  Memory  Lane 
(nJ  Guiding  Light— Jim  Lipton  stars 
Charles  Collingwood— News 
Stand  Up  &  Be  Counted— Panel 
As  The  World  Turns — Serial 
Jinx  Falkenburg — Pretty  &  pertinent 
Johnny  Carson  Show— Variety 
Richard  Willis— Beauty  advice 
Ted  Steele— Cheerfully  yours 
[J]  Art  Linkletter's  House  Party 
Big  Payoff — Randy  Merriman  quiz 
Matinee  Theater— Hour  teleplays 
[U  Film  Festival— British  movies 
Ted  Steele— Happy-go-lucky  variety 
Bob  Crosby — Swing  &  sing 
Brighter  Day— Sunny  serial 
Queen  For  A  Day— Royal  fun 
Wendy  Barrie— Fair  &  breezy 
Secret  Storm — Peter  Hobbs  stars 
Edge  Of  Night— John  Larkin  stars 
I  Married  Joan- — Joan  Davis  comedy 
Virginia  Graham— Tic-talk  for  gals 
|Tj  Mickey  Mouse  Club 
Ted  Steele  Bandstand— For  teeners 
Herb  Sheldon— Family  show 
John  Daly's  Comments — News 
Million  Dollar  Movie 
News  Caravan 
Cecil  Brown— News 
Million  Dollar  Movie 
Night  Show— Feature  Films 
The  Late  Show — Feature  films 
Tonight— Steve  Allen-Wed.,  Th.,  Fri. 


Monday  P.M. 


70 


7:30  0  Robin  Hood— From  Sherwood  Forest 

0  SBold  Journey— True-life  adventures 
8:00  0  Burns  &  Allen— New  series 

©  Adventures  Of  Sir  Launcelot— 
Except  Oct.  15,  "The  Letter,"  on  Producers' 
Showcase 

O  |T|  Danny  Thomas— Family  comedy 
8:30  0  Talent  Scouts— Godfrey's  show 
©  Stanley— Buddy   Hackett  comedy 
©  0  Voice     Of     Firestone — Oct.     8, 
Thomas  L.  Thomas;  Oct.  15,  Dorothy  Waren- 
skjold;  Oct.   22,  Jerome   Hines. 
9:00  0  [§]  I  Love  Lucy— New  season  of  laffs 
©  The    Most    Beautiful    Girl    In    The 
World — Shapely  show 

0  Bishop  Fulton  Sheen— Begins  10/15 
9:30  0  December  Bride-It's  Spring  Byington 
©  Lawrence  Welk— Hour  for  teeners 
10:00  0  3  Studio  One— Fine   hour 
10:30  ©  Doug  Fairbanks  Presents 

0  Dr.  Christian— Stars  MacDonald  Carey 


Tuesday 


7:30  0  Name  That  Tune— Mu$ical  quiz 
0  Waterfront— Preston  Foster  stars 
0  Cheyenne— Oct.    9    &    23;    Conflict, 
Oct.  16  &  30. 
8:00  0  Phil  Silvers  Show-Bilko's  best 

©  Big  Surprise— $100,000  Quiz 
8:30  0  The  Brothers— Bob  Sweeney  Comedy 
©  Noah's  Ark — Life  of  a  veterinarian 
0  \s]  Wyatt  Earp— From  Dodge  City 
9:00  0  Herb  Shriner  Show— Variety 

©  Jane  Wyman  Show — Oct.  9,  "No 
More  Tears";  Oct.  16,  "Two  Sides  to  Every- 
thing"; Oct.  23,  "Between  Jobs." 

0  [I]  Broken  Arrow— Indian  agent's  life 
9:30  0  Red  Skelton— Great  clown 

©  Kaiser  Theater-Circle  Theater 
0  .(T]  Cavalcade  Theater— Factual 
10:00  0  11]  $64,000  Question— Hal  March 

0  The  Big  Picture— Army  documentary 
10:30  0  Do  You  Trust  Your  Wife?— Bergen 
©  Break  The  $25,000  Bank— Parks 


Wednesday 


7:30  0  Pick  The  Winner — Political  debate 
0  Mickey  Rooney  Show— Laffs 
O  [I]  Disneyland— Fun  &  fantasy 
d>  Queen  Of  The  Jungle— Shena 
8:00  0  The  Arthur  Godfrey  Show— Variety 
©  Adventures   Of   Hiram   Holliday— 
New  Wally  Cox  comedy 

©  Gildersleeve— Willard   Waterman 
8:30  ©  Father  Knows  Best— Bob  Young  stars 
0  Ray  Milland  Show— Comedy 
0  |T|  Navy  Log— Dramatic  documentaries 
9:00  0  The  Millionaire— Stories 

©  Kraft  Theater— Live,  hour  plays 
©Beulah— Ethel  Waters  stars 
0  |T]  Ozzie  &  Harriet— Always  great 
9:30  0  I've  Got  A  Secret— Moore's  back 
O  [8]  Ford  Theater— Fine  stories 
10:00  0  U.S.  Steel  Hour-20th  Century-Fox 
Hour— Oct.     10,    "The    Long     Boat    of    the 
William  Brown";  Oct.  24,  "A  Far  Star." 
©  This   Is   Your   Life— Always   dramatic 
0  [§]  Boxing — Headline   events 
10:30  ©  Twenty-one— Jack  Barry  quiz 


Thursday 


7:30  0  The  Goldbergs— Molly's  merry 

O  The  Lone  Ranger— Horse  opera 
8:00  0  Bob  Cummings  Show— Forceful 

©  You  Bet  Your  Life— The  Marxsman 
0  International  Playhouse— Drama 
8:30  0  Climax— Suspense.  Except  10/4, 
Shower  Of  Stars— Musical  revue 

©  Dragnet— Jack  Webb's  new  series 
0  Liberace— Pianist 
(D  Florian  ZaBach — Fiddle-faddle 
9:00  ©  People's  Choice — Cooper  comedy 
©  Pro  Wrestling— Live  with  grunts 
0  Wire  Service— Fine,  hour  drama 
about  reporters 
9:30  0  Playhouse   90— New   90-minute   the- 
ater   premieres    Oct.    1 1     with    Pat    Frank's 
"Forbidden  Area" 

©  (\T\  at  10)  Tennessee  Ernie  Ford 
10:00  ©  Lux  Video  Thecter— Hour  drama 

0  Ozark  Jubilee— Red  Foley  stars 
10:30  0  Racket  Squad— Reed  Hadley  stars 


Friday 


7:30  0  My  Friend  Flicka — About  a  filly 

0  Rin  Tin  Tin— Arf  &  arf 
8:00  0  West  Point— Drama  of  the  Academy 


©    Life    Of    Riley-Oct.    5,     "The    New 
Job";  Oct.  12,  "Destination  De  Mar  Vista"; 
Oct.    19,    "Uncle    Bixby   Takes    Over";    Oct. 
26,    "Friends";     Nov.    2,    "Juvenile    Delin- 
quent." 
0  Sherlock   Holmes— Vintage   Dragnet 
0  [s]  Adventures     Of     Jim     Bowie- 
Scott    Forbes    as    frontier    hero 
8:30  0  Zane  Grey  Theater 

©  Walter  Winchell  Show— Variety 
9:00  ©  On     Trial— Joseph     Cotten     narrates. 
Except  Oct.  5,  Chevy  Hour,  starring  Dinah 
Shore. 

0  Crusader— Melodramas 
O  [s]  Treasure  Hunt— Jan  Murray  quiz 
9:30  0  Schlitz  Playhouse— Dramas 
©  Big  Story— Headline  drama 
10:00  0  The  Line-Up— Police  drama 

©  Boxing— With  Jimmy,  the  Powerhouse 
0  [«]  Polka  Time— Live  and  lively 
10:30  0  Person  To  Person— Ed  Murrow's  in- 
terviews 


Saturday 


11:00  0  Kiddie  Spectacular— 90-minute  show 
Oct.  6. 
2:30-4:15  ©  NCCA    Football-4:15,   Oct.   6, 
Texas  Christian  vs.  Arkansas;  2:45,  Oct.  27, 
Notre  Dame  vs.  Oklahoma. 
6:00  0  Telephone  Time — John  Nesbitt 
6:15  ©  Patti  Page— Sings  on  film 
6:30  0  Beat  The  Clock— Bud  Collyer  emcees 
7:00  0  Saturday  Sports  Mirror 
©  Open  Mind — Provocative 
7:30  0  Buccaneer— Adventures 

©  People  Are  Funny— Linkletter 
8:00  0  \s}  Jackie  Gleason  Show— Full  hour 

©  Perry  Como  Show — Variety 
9:00  0  Oh!  Susanna— Gale  Storm  comedy 

©  Caesar's  Hour — Sid  with  Janet  Blair; 
Spectacular,  10/27 

0  |T|  Lawrence  Welk— Family  favorite 
9:30  0  Hey,  Jeannie— Jeannie  Carson.  Ex- 
cept Oct.  6,  Ford  Star  Jubilee,  "You're 
the  Top,"  with  Cole  Porter,  Louis  Armstrong, 
Gordon  MacRae,  Shirley  Jones,  Dorothy 
Dandridge,  George  Sanders. 
10:00  0  Gunsmoke— Adult  Westerns 

©  George  Gobel— Gobs  of  George 
0  Passport  To  Adventure — via  Romero 
10:30  0  High  Finance— Dennis  James  quiz 
©  Your  Hit  Parade— Musical  fun 


Sunday 


2:00  0  Pro     Football— Oct.     7,     Giants     vs. 
Chicago;    Oct.     14,    Giants    vs.    Cleveland; 
Nov.   4,   Giants   vs.   Pittsburgh. 
4:30  0  Medical  Horizons— Documentary 
5:00  0  See  It  Now— Ed  Murrow's  essay 
6:30  0  You  Are  There— History  alive 
7:00  ©  Tales  of  the  77th  Bengal  Lancers 
7:30  0  QO  Jack  Benny— alternates  with  Pri- 
vate Secretary 

©  Circus  Boy— Except  Oct.  28,  Hall- 
mark Hall  Of  Fame  presents  "Born  Yes- 
terday," Mary  Martin,  Paul  Douglas 

0  Original  Amateur  Hour— Ted  Mack 
8:00  0  0  Ed  Sullivan  Show 

0  Steve  Allen  Show— Variety 
9:00  0  G-E  Theater— Half-hour  dramas 

©  Goodyear-Alcoa  Playhouse — Live 
dramatic  hour  except  Oct.  21,  Chevy  Show 
starring  Bob  Hope 

O  [§]  Omnibus— 90  minutes  of  culture 
9:30  0  Alfred  Hitchcock  Presents— Suspense 
10:00  ft  $64,000  Challenge— Ralph  Story 

©Loretta   Young  Show— Oct.  7,  "The 
Years     Between";    Oct.     14,    "New    Slant"; 
Oct.     21,     "Imperfect     Balance";     Oct.     28, 
"Great  Divide." 
10:30  0  0  What's  My  Line?-Job  game 


INFORMATION   BOOTH 

(Continued  from  page  6) 

Deejays  on  Rock  V  Roll 

Following  are  excerpts  from  letters  re- 
ceived from  disk  jockeys  in  response  to  the 
Rock  'n'  Roll  article  in  the  September 
issue  of  TV  Radio  Mirror: 

I'll  have  to  give  some  credit  to  R  'n'  R 
.  .  .  for  one  thing,  and  only:  It  has  drawn 
a  goodly  number  of  kids  to  the  dance  floor. 
And,  it  shouldn't  be  too  hard  to  switch  'em 
from  the  monotonous  after-sock  of  two 
beat  to  a  swingin   four  beat. 

Dick  Martin,  WWL,  New  Orleans,  La. 

I  like  rock  'n'  roll  .  .  .  but  there's  just 
too  much  of  it  at  the  present.  I  feel  it 
hasn't  been  a  bad  influence.  .  .  .  It's 
healthy  for  the  entire  music  biz,  and  is  a 
part  of  growing  up. 

Howie  Leonard,  WPOR,  Portland,  Me. 

We're  one  of  the  stations  keeping  rock 

'n'  roll  to  a  minimum  .  .  .  although  we  play 

some  of  it.  Actually  this  music  isn't  new. 

Ed  Mullinax,  WLAG,  Lagrange,  Ga. 

We  have  been  playing  almost  entirely 
rock  V  roll.  I  agree  with  TV  Radio  Mir- 
ror that  Elvis  Presley  will  not  cause  so 
much  grief  to  our  teenagers.  A  few  years 
ago  it  was  Frank  Sinatra — and  now  those 
people  are  young  adults  and  they  seem  to 
have  lived  through  the  craze. 

Ann  Cannady,  KWBB,  Wichita,  Kan. 

Girl  Friday 

Please  tell  us  about  the  delightful  young 
comedienne,  Ann  B.  Davis,  who  plays 
Schultzy  on  The  Bob  Cummings  Show. 

M.  Pirn.,  Little  Rock,  Ark. 

Ann  B.  Davis  made  her  theatrical  debut 
at  the  age  of  six,  when  she  earned  two 
dollars  in  a  puppet  show  and,  as  she  puts 
it,  "I  was  impossible  to  live  with  for 
weeks!"  .  .  .  Born  in  Schenectady,  New 
York,  and  raised  in  Erie,  Pennsylvania, 
Ann  enrolled  at  the  University  of  Michigan 
intending  to  study  medicine.  A  fascinating 
glimpse  "inside  show  business,"  furnished 
her  by  her  brother  (a  professional  danc- 
er) soon  convinced  Ann  that  she'd  rather 
act  than  operate.  .  .  .  Ann  lives  in  a  mod- 
est apartment  in  Hollywood,  with  a  French 
poodle,  Bijou,  and  a  parakeet,  Westly 
Wethercock.  She  is  5  feet  4  inches  tall, 
weighs  125  pounds,  has  brown  hair  and 
hazel  eyes.  A  bun  hair-do  and  Gibson-girl 
clothes  are  her  special  trademark — on  and 
off  screen — because  Ann  feels  they  express 
her  personality.  "I'm  not  glamorous,  and 
I'm  glad,"  she  explains.  "As  the  lovable, 
laughable,  but  plain  Miss  Schultz,  I  stay 
while  the  beauties  come  and  go.  In  this 
case  it  pays  to  be  a  girl  Friday  rather  than 
a  Sunday  special." 


FOR  YOUR  INFORMATION— If  there's 
something  you  want  to  know  about  radio 
and  television,  write  to  Information  Booth, 
TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East  42nd  St.,  New 
York  17,  N.  Y.  We'll  answer,  if  we  can, 
provided  your  question  is  of  general  inter- 
est. Answers  will  appear  in  this  column — 
but  be  sure  to  attach  this  box  to  your 
letter,  and  specify  whether  your  question 
concerns  radio  or  TV. 


NEW 


Star 
Candids 


CANDIDS 


1 .  Lana  Turner 

2.  Betty  Grable 

3.  Ava  Gardner 

5 .  Alan  Lad d 

6.  Tyrone  Power 

7.  Gregory  Peck 
9.  Esther  Williams 

11.  Elizabeth  Taylor 

14.  Cornel  Wilde 

15.  Frank  Sinatra 

18.  Rory  Calhoun 

19.  Peter  Lawford 

21.  Bob  Mitchum 

22.  Burt  Lancaster 

23.  Bing  Crosby 

2  5 .  Dale  Evans 
27.  June  Allyson 

33.  Gene  Autry 

34.  Roy  Rogers 

3  5 .  Sunset  Carson 

50.  Diana  Lynn 

51.  Doris  Day 

52.  Montgomery  Clift 

53.  Richard  Widmark 

56.  Perry  Como 

57.  Bill  Holden 

66.  Gordon  MacRae 

67.  Ann  BIyth 

68.  Jeanne  Crain 

69.  Jane  Russell 

74.  John  Wayne 

75.  Yvonne  de  Carlo 
78.  Audie  Murphy 
84.  Janet  Leigh 

86.  Farley  Granger 

91.  John  Derek 

92.  Guy  Madison 
94.  Mario  Lanza 
97.  Kirk  Douglas 


103.  Scott  Brady 

105.  Vic  Damone 

106.  Shelley  Winters 

107.  Richard  Todd 

109.  Dean  Martin 

110.  Jerry  Lewis 
112.  Susan  Hayward 
117.  Terry  Moore 
121.  Tony  Curtis 
124.  Gail  Davis 

127.  Piper  Laurie 

128.  Debbie  Reynolds 

135.  Jeff  Chandler 

136.  Rock  Hudson 

137.  Stewart  Granger 

139.  Debra  Paget 

140.  Dale  Robertson 

141.  Marilyn    Monroe 

142.  Leslie  Caron 

143.  Pier  Angeli 

144.  Mitzi  Gaynor 

145.  Marlon  Brando 

146.  Aldo  Ray 

147.  Tab  Hunter 

148.  Robert  Wagner 

149.  Russ  Tamblyn 

150.  Jeff  Hunter 

152.  Marge  and  Gow- 

er  Champion 

153.  Fernando  Lamas 
161.  Lori  Nelson 

174.  Rita  Gam 

175.  Charlton  Heston 

176.  Steve  Cochran 

177.  Richard  Burton 

179.  Julius  La  Rosa 

180.  Lucille  Ball 
182.  Jack  Webb 
185.  Richard  Egan 


187.  Jeff  Richards 

190.  Pat  Crowley 

191.  Robert  Taylor 

192.  Jean  Simmons 
194.  Audrey  Hepburn 
198.  Gale  Storm 
202.  George  Nader 
205.  Ann  Sothern 
207.  Eddie  Fisher 
209.  Liberace 

211.  Bob  Francis 

212.  Grace  Kelly 

213.  James  Dean 

214.  Sheree  North 

215.  Kim  Novak 

216.  Richard   Davalos 

217.  Julie  Adams 

218.  Eva  Marie  Saint 

219.  Natalie  Wood 

220.  Dewey  Martin 

221.  Joan  Collins 

222.  Jayne  Mansfield 

223.  Sal  Mineo 

224.  Shirley  Jones 


225.  Elvis  Presley 

226.  Victoria  Shaw 
22?.  Tony  Perkins 

228.  Clint  Walker 

229.  Pat  Boone 

230.  Paul  Newman 

231.  Don  Murray 

232.  Don  Cherry 

233.  Pat  Wayne 

234.  Carroll  Baker 

235.  Anita  Ekberg 

236.  Corey  Allen 

237.  Dana  Wynter 

238.  Diana  Dors 

239.  Judy  Busch 

240.  Patti  Page 

24 1.  Lawrence  Welk 

242.  Alice  Lon 

243.  Larry  Dean 

244.  Buddy   Merrill 

245.  Hugh   O'Brian 

246.  Jim  Arness 

247.  Sanford  Clark 


FILL    IN    AND    MAIL 
COUPON  TODAY! 


WORLD  WIDE,  DEPT.  WG-ll-56 
112   Main  St.,   Ossining,  N.  Y. 

I  enclose  $ for   candid 

pictures  of  my  favorite  stars  and  have  circled 
the  numbers  of  the  ones  you  are  to  send  me 
by  return  mail. 

NAME 

STREET 

CITY T 

v 

ZONE STATE R 

Fill  out  and  mail  coupon  today.  Send  cash 
or  money  order.  12  pictures  for  $1;  6  for  50c. 


(Continued  from  page  62) 
sister,  Travis  Rogers — already  the  mother 
of  Betsy,  who  is  a  year  younger  than 
Nancy — had  her  second  child,  Suzanne, 
last  December,  and  Nancy  had  seen  a 
little  of  what  it  means  to  have  a  new 
baby  come  into  the  home.  Now  this  won- 
derful thing  was  happening  to  us.  To  her. 
She  wanted  to  know  all  about  our  baby. 
Where  was  it  now?  When  would  we  see  it? 
"I  reminded  her — as  I  had  on  other 
occasions  when  she  had  asked  questions 
about  babies — that,  although  she  was  now 
a  big  girl,  it  was  amazing  to  think  she 
had  once  been  just  a  baby,  small  enough 
to  be  carried  inside  me  until  the  time 
came  to  be  born.  She  always  thought  the 
whole  idea  was  simply  hilarious  and  was 
fascinated  to  learn  she  had  ever  been 
tiny  enough  to  fit  into  'Mommy's  tummy.' 
Then  she  would  be  struck  by  the  wonder 
of  it  all — which  was  the  impression  I  had 
wanted  to  leave  with  her,  before  she 
dropped  the  subject  and  went  back  to  her 
play.  This  time  she  was  even  more  won- 
dering, and  more  fascinated." 

Because  the  Underhills  live  out  in  the 
country,  in  a  wooded  section  near  New 
York,  the  doctor  had  suggested  an  ob- 
stetrician in  a  town  near  them,  with 
hospital  affiliations  near  by.  On  Julie's 
first  visit  to  the  obstetrician,  Charles  and 
Nancy  went  with  her. 

"They  both  came  into  the  office  after 
the  examination,"  says  Julie,  "and  Nancy 
was  right  there  when  we  discussed  the 
baby  and  the  hospital  arrangements.  She 
informed  me  that  she  wanted  to  go  to 
the  hospital  with  me,  and  I  forestalled 
any  trouble  later  by  making  it  clear  right 
away  that  she  was  too  young.  She  was 
told  that  children  aren't  allowed  to  visit 
hospitals,  and  so  I  simply  couldn't  take 
her,  but  she  would  have  her  daddy  at 
home  with  her  at  night,  as  he  always  was. 
And  our  wonderful  Pearl  would  be  there 
to  take  care  of  her,  just  the  same  as  al- 
ways. Pearl  took  care  of  my  apartment 
and  of  me  before  I  was  married,  and 
Nancy  has  had  her  love  and  care  from 
the  beginning." 

Perhaps  because  Nancy  has  become  a 
partner  in  all  the  plans  for  the  baby,  the 
waiting  period  has  not  seemed  over-long 
to  her.  She  forgets  it  for  a  while,  at 
times  becomes  greatly  interested.  She  has 
understood  that,  when  they  went  swim- 
ming in  their  own  acre-and-a-half  pond 
this  summer,  her  Mommy  couldn't  lift 
her  up  in  the  water  and  toss  her  around 
as  she  used  to  do,  and  that  other  such 
joys  have  been  forfeited  temporarily — 
because  these  things  would  not  be  good 
for  the  baby,  who  has  to  grow  big  and 
strong  enough  to  be  born  before  the  snow 
comes  again.  "This  knowledge  has  made 
everything  simpler,"  Julie  says,  "requiring 
only  a  reminder  now  and  then. 

"Also,  Charles  has  done  some  very 
smart  things  to  help.  Fathers  can,  and 
should,  at  this  time.  He  has  made  a  part- 
ner of  Nancy  in  all  this.  Together,  they 
look   after  me. 

"I  have  seen  small  children  grow  quite 
resentful    and    begin   to   blame    the    little 
newcomer — a  feeling  it  is  hard  to  coun- 
teract   later    on — so     I    am    grateful    to 
Charles  for  not  letting  this  happen  with 
Nancy.   Most  of  the  time,  she  has  been  so 
cute.  When  I  didn't  feel  well,  one  morn- 
ing   after    breakfast,    she    informed    me 
solemnly  that  the  coffee  had  not  agreed 
T     with    the    baby    and    suggested    I    might 
V    leave  it  out  next  morning." 
r        Because   the   baby   has   been   a   part  of 
their  lives  now  for  what  to  Nancy  seems 
a   long,   long  time,   Julie  feels   there  will 
not  be  any  problem  of  jealousy  to  meet 


Waiting  for  Baby 

after  the  baby  comes.  Haven't  they 
planned  and  waited  together  for  just  that 
very  result?  Nancy  helped  shop  for  ma- 
ternity clothes.  She  has  selected  some  of 
the  baby's  first  toys,  to  present  person- 
ally when  the  time  comes.  She  talks  of 
sharing  her  own  cherished  toys — some- 
thing she  has  been  learning  about  at 
nursery  school  this  year,  where  she  has 
also  learned  what  it  means  to  "take 
turns"  and  be  unselfish.  She  has  been 
building  up  a  great  deal  of  love  for  this 
child  who  will  soon  be  part  of  their 
family  circle,  and  her  parents  have  im- 
pressed upon  her  that  they  waited  for 
her  arrival  just  as  lovingly. 

The  feeling  that  Nancy  has  about  this 
being  not  merely  a  baby,  but  her  baby, 
may  bring  future  problems,  Julie  realizes. 
Already  it  has  been  explained  that  a  small 
baby  needs  careful  handling,  and  at  first 
only  a  nurse  or  a  Mommy  or  a  Daddy  can 
do  this.  This  summer  Nancy  spent  a 
month  with  Julie's  mother  on  Cape  Cod, 
where  she  had  her  little  cousins  as  play- 
mates, and  she  helped  with  little  Suzanne, 
bringing  things  for  her  bath  and  watching 
her  be  fed.  Now  these  are  the  things  she 
looks   forward   to   doing   for   "her"   baby. 

"I  know,  however,"  Julie  smiles,  "that 
I  shall  have  to  be  quite  firm  about  ex- 
plaining the  things  a  child  cannot  do, 
even  when  she  sees  the  adults  doing  it, 
and  about  the  care  an  infant  needs.  I  have 
always  made  it  clear  to  Nancy  that  little 
girls  must  wait  for  certain  privileges  until 
they  are  grown-up,  and  I  think  she  un- 
derstands this — to  some  degree,  at  least. 
It  has  already  saved  a  lot  of  begging  and 
pleading  and  tears,  and  I  expect  it  to  help 
even  more  in  the  next  months. 

"Charles  and  I  laugh,  sometimes — and 
I  even  get  a  little  scared — thinking  that, 
in  her  childish  mind,  our  daughter  is 
really  expecting  this  baby  to  rise  full- 
blown on  arrival  from  the  hospital  and 
be  ready  to  take  off  and  go  romping 
through  the  woods  with  her,  the  perfect 
playmate  from  the  beginning!  I  suppose 
there  is  just  no  way  to  prevent  that  image 
from  growing,  in  spite  of  all  we  say,  and 
it  may  be  a  shock  when  she  sees  what  a 
helpless  little  thing  a  newborn  baby  is. 
I  can  only  hope  its  tiny  cuteness  and  her 
tenderness  for  it,  will  bridge  the  gap  in 
the  beginning." 

Unlike  the  problem  in  some  families, 
where  bedroom  space  is  more  limited, 
Nancy  will  not  have  to  be  dispossessed 
from  her  own  room  to  make  room  for  the 
baby,  a  fact  which  Julie  feels  is  quite 
important.  The  Underhills  do  not  believe 
an  infant  should  sleep  in  a  room  where 
there  is  no  adult  close  by,  so  for  the 
present,  the  nursery  will  be  a  "share" 
in  Pearl's  room.  The  only  special  prep- 
arations are  an  adorably  decorated  bassi- 
net, with  a  bright  mobile  strung  across, 
with  beads  and  ribbons  to  pull  on.  This 
bassinet  can  be  placed  on  the  long,  red- 
bricked  terrace  on  sunny  days. 

As  the  months  go  by,  and  the  need  for 
an  extra  room  becomes  acute,  the  Under- 
hills have  a  plan  to  break  through  a 
couple  of  walls  in  their  small,  snug  little 
house,  enlarge  the  present  bedrooms,  and 
add  an  extension  of  two  bedrooms  and  a 
separate  playroom  for  the  children.  "If 
we  can  afford  it,"  Julie  always  adds — wise 
in  the  ways  of  building  costs  since  she 
and  Charles  put  up  their  house  about  five 
years  ago.  "It  would  work  out  well,  be- 
cause then  Nancy  would  not  mind  moving 
from  that  cherished  'room  of  her  own' 
into  one  next  to  the  baby's,  with  their  own 
playroom  to  share." 

Nancy's  daddy  has  been  working  on  a 
combination    storage    shed    for    tools    and 


playhouse-bunkhouse  for  Nancy,  just  a 
stone's  throw  from  the  house.  One  side 
of  the  small  structure  will  have  space  for 
tools  and  such  things.  The  other  will  be 
equipped  with  bunks  for  visitors,  a  table 
and  chairs  for  afternoon  tea  parties  for 
Nancy's  friends,  and  enough  floor  space 
for  games  when  it's  raining  outside.  This 
will  be  the  little  girl's  own  domain — but 
Nancy  has  decided  that  the  baby  can 
come  in  whenever^  she  wants  to. 

The  baby  has  been  "her"  and  "she"  to 
Nancy,  from  the  first.  Neither  Julie  or 
Charles  has  cared,  nor  do  they  now, 
whether  there  is  another  daughter  or  a 
son — either  being  equally  welcome — but 
Nancy  has  stated  unequivocally  that  this 
will  be  a  little  sister.  Julie  thinks  it's 
because  the  boys  at  nursery  school  and 
around  the  neighborhood  seem  to  be  less 
satisfactory  to  Nancy  as  playmates  than 
are  the  girls.  There  is  a  tendency  for  boys 
to  pull  hair  and  tease  and  be  rough,  and 
Nancy  sees  no  reason  for  having  this  kind 
of  thing  go  on  at  home,  too.  Therefore, 
she  has  decided  she  does  not  like  boys — 
although  Julie  has  prepared  her  mind  for 
a  brother  by  reminding  her  their  little 
boy  would  be  "different." 

As  part  of  the  preparation  for  cherish- 
ing the  child  to  come,  her  parents  have 
discussed  possible  names  with  her.  It  is 
pretty  well  established  that  a  boy  must  be 
either  Edward  Charles  or  Charles  Edward, 
for  his  own  daddy  and  for  Julie's  father. 
Nancy  approves  of  this,  while  not  conced- 
ing too  much  possibility  of  the  need  to 
discuss  male  names.  Her  daddy  favors 
the  old  Quaker  names  for  a  girl — perhaps 
Prudence  or  Sarah — but  Julie  isn't  sure 
about  these,  although  Nancy  thinks  they 
are  quite  cute.  They  want  a  name  that 
will  go  well  with  Underhill  and  can't  be 
changed  into  any  nickname  that  isn't 
pretty.  Virginia  and  Margaret  have  been 
mentioned,  but  none  settled  upon,  and 
Nancy  comes  up  with  new  ones  fre- 
quently— mostly  names  of  little  girls  she 
plays  with  or  the  ones  in  her  storybooks — 
and  they  discuss  her  choices  solemnly. 

For  a  five-year-old,  Nancy  has  a  fine 
knowledge  of  the  woods  and  waters,  the 
flowers  and  trees,  the  animals  and  in- 
sects and  birds  on  their  eighteen  acres 
in  the  country.  She  has  informed  her 
parents  that  she  expects  to  pass  on  this 
outdoor  lore  to  her  baby,  and  teach  it 
everything  her  daddy  has  taught  her. 
Charles  Underbill's  father  was  a  well- 
known  educator,  a  superintendent  of 
schools  in  Scarsdale,  New  York,  famous 
for  its  fine  school  system,  and  Charles 
was  a  student  at  his  father's  summer 
camp  in  Maine  and  later  a  counselor 
there.  All  this  knowledge  is  gradually 
being  passed  along  to  Nancy.  This  sum- 
mer, she  learned  how  to  swim  the  Aus- 
tralian crawl  in  their  pond,  and  she  is 
sure  the  baby  will  be  ready  to  join  her 
as  soon  as  summer  comes  again,  when 
she  can  take  her  turn  at  being  teacher. 
"Having  another  child  in  the  house  will 
be  good  for  all  of  us,  and  especially  good 
for  Nancy,"  says  Julie.  "Already  I  am 
less  tense  about  her,  and  will  not  be 
keeping  her  under  such  strict  surveil- 
lance as  she  gets  older  and  more  inde- 
pendent. She  is  beginning  to  enjoy  doing 
things  by  herself  and  for  herself,  and  this 
is  right  and  good.  She  sometimes  resents 
it  just  a  little  when  I  say  she  is  my 
baby,  and  insists  instead  that  she  is  my 
sister.  I  am  quite  prepared,  however,  to 
have  her  decide  she  wants  to  be  my  baby 
again  when  that  newcomer  arrives,  that 
interloper  who  will  take  its  share  of  my 
time  and  love.  I  shall  have  to  repeat 
frequently  that  she  is  still  her  Mommy's 


and  Daddy's  baby,  now  and  for  always. 
I  am  prepared  also  to  give  her  as  much 
time  as  I  possibly  can,  no  matter  how 
busy  I  am,  during  those  important  first 
weeks  when  there  is  a  demanding  infant 
in  the  house  who  cries  and  upsets  every- 
thing— and  yet  doesn't  get  scolded  for  it 
as  Nancy  would.  Then  I  shall  have  to  be 
very  wise — and  I  hope  I  can  be! — in  ex- 
plaining the  difference  between  a  baby's 
misbehavior  and  the  naughtiness  of  a  big 
girl  of  five  who  already  knows  better!" 

As  Helen  Trent,  Julie's  hours  are  pleas- 
ant for  a  mother  and  homemaker.  Al- 
though she  played  the  role  of  Lorelei  in 
Biq  Town  for  six  months  on  television, 
doing  a  live  show,  she  feels  now  that  TV 
is  not  for  her.  "All  my  dreams  of  being 
a  big  Broadway  stage  star  are  gone,"  she 
says,  and  laughs  a  little  about  the  burning 
ambitions  she  once  had.  "Not  that  I'd  turn 
the  chance  down,  perhaps,  but  I  wouldn't 
seek  it.   Not  now. 

"Our  lives  take  unexpected  turns,  and 
mine  has  turned  the  way  I  really  prefer. 
I  was  in  plays,  mostly  ones  that  didn't 
last  too  long.  (She  was  playing  the  part 
of  Rosemary  in  the  long-run  play  Abie's 
Irish  Rose  when  she  married  Charles,  but 
usually  she  got  good  notices — and  the 
plays  didn't.)  I  made  some  motion  pic- 
tures, with  no  great  success.  I  loved  radio, 
and  it  was  good  to  me.  I  played  Kitty 
Foyle  on  radio  for  two  years,  although  it 
was  originally  scheduled  for  only  thirteen 
weeks.  Right  after  it  left  the  air,  I  got 
the  chance  to  go  into  the  lead  role  of  The 
Romance  Of  Helen  Trent.  Last  June,  I 
began  my  thirteenth  year  as  Helen,  happy 
years  of  work  with  people  of  whom  I  am 
fond,  happy  years  in  which  Charles  and 
I  began  our  life  together,  in  which  we 
established  a  home  and  family. 

"When  I  met  Charles,  the  whole  back- 
ground of  my  life  changed,  but  I  still  did 
two  plays  after  that  and  was  away  part 
of  the  time.  Suddenly  I  knew  it  was 
Charles,  and  the  things  he  brought  into 
my  life,  that  I  really  wanted.  The  chance 
to  go  on  in  radio  was  that  extra  some- 
thing, but  it  wasn't  all  of  life. 

"I  can  be  home,  after  the  Helen  Trent 
broadcast,  by  mid-afternoon,  usually  be- 
fore Nancy  gets  up  from  her  nap.  I  can 
give  her  the  time  and  attention  she  will 
need,  especially  for  a  while,  to  avoid  any 
injured  feelings.  Later  on  this  winter  she 
will  be  going  to  school  a  large  part  of 
the  day,  instead  of  half-days,  and  she 
will  feel  more  independent  about  the  time 
she  has  left  and  want  to  be  with  her 
friends  and  join  in  things  that  interest  her. 

"Until  that  time,  I  am  trying  to  be  as 
wise  as  I  can  be,  trying  to  give  her  all 
the  love  and  tenderness  and  understand- 
ing I  possibly  can.  Charles,  of  course, 
feels  the  same  way.  Nancy's  daddy  is 
very  dear  to  her  and  she  would  weep 
bitterly  if  she  felt  she  was  losing  any 
little  part  of  him.  We  have  the  feeling 
that  we  have  fostered  this  idea  of  a  part- 
nership in  all  that  pertains  to  the  new 
baby,  and  that  it  has  been  successful. 
Everything  has  been  measured  in  terms 
of  what  is  best  for  baby,  and  Nancy's 
cooperation  has  been  just  as  important 
as  ours. 

"I  am  fascinated,  just  watching  my  lit- 
tle girl,  watching  the  way  her  mind  is 
developing  now,  the  way  she  has  assumed 
responsibility  in  these  past  months,  know- 
ing that  it  will  be  only  a  few  years  until 
she  can  be  a  real  companion  to  Charles 
and  me.  I  know  the  same  pattern  will 
unfold  in  the  new  baby,  and  sometimes 
the  waiting  has  been  hard  to  bear. 

"Sometimes  it  has  been  hard  for  Nancy, 
too.  She  wants  to  look  upon  her  baby — 
this  child  we  have  prepared  her  to  wel- 
come with  all  her  heart  and  to  love  for 
always.  As  we  shall  love  them  both," 
vows  Julie  Stevens  Underhill. 


Act  Now  And  You  Will 
Receive  4  Extra  Issues 
On  This  Special  Offer! 

Now  you  can  subscribe  for  TV  Radio  Mirror  at  a  special  rate  and 
receive  16  exciting  issues  for  only  $3.00.  Thousands  of  enthusiastic 
readers  regularly  pay  the  same  price  for  12  issues.  If  you  act  at  once 
you  will  receive  4  EXTRA  issues — 16  in  all — for  only  $3.00,  saving 
you  $1.00  over  the  newsstand  price. 

TV  Radio  Mirror  brings  you  the  very  best  in  radio  and  television 
entertainment.  Every  issue  is  jam-packed  with  exciting  articles  and 
features.  You'll  read  intimate,  inside  stories  about  the  interesting 
people  and  programs  on  radio  and  television.  And  you'll  get  valu- 
able advance  listings  of  programs  to  come. 

So  mail  the  coupon  in  now  while  this  special  money-saving  offer 
is  in  effect.  You'll  get  16  big  issues  of  TV  Radio  Mirror  for  only 
$3.00,  guaranteeing  you  a  whale  of  a  lot  of  pleasure. 

.    SAVE  $1.00  UNDER  NEWSSTAND  PRICES! 


-MAIL  THIS  COUPON  TODAY 1 

Mail  to:  TV  Radio  Mirror,  TVRM  11-56 

205  East  42  St.,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 

Yes!  Enter  my  subscription  at  once.  Send  me  the 
next  16  months  of  TV  Radio  Mirror  for  only  $3, 
saving  me  $1  under  newsstand  prices.  I  enclose 
$3  as  payment. 


Name    . 

Address 
City.... 


(Please    Print) 


Zone. . . .  State. 


73 


(Continued  from  page  45) 
Larry  grinned  shyly.  "Gee,  thanks,"  he 
mumbled,  kicked  an  imaginary  speck  of 
dust  on  the  floor,  and  then  plunged  his 
hands  back  again  into  his  pockets.  Five 
minutes  later,  he  was  proudly  displaying 
his  pocket  portrait  of  Alice,  his  bride  of 
one  year,  and  their  three-month-old  baby, 
David.  The  violinist  and  pianist  made  prop- 
erly appreciative  noises.  At  first  meeting, 
Larry  had  been  accepted  by  the  band. 

Joining  Lawrence's  band  had  been  a  big 
gamble  for  Larry.  He  had  left  a  sure  posi- 
tion with  Jan  Garber  and  joined  Welk,  on 
a  week-to-week  trial  basis,  in  the  hope 
that  he  would  be  able  to  settle  down  and 
establish  a  permanent  home  for  his  wife 
and  child.  One-nighters  on  the  road  were 
not  Larry's  idea  of  the  best  way  to  raise 
a  family.  .  .  .  Now,  after  Larry's  first  few 
days  with  the  new  orchestra,  it  was  rapidly 
apparent  to  Welk,  the  musicians  and  the 
Dodge  people  that  Larry  filled  the  bill  very 
well.  "We  all  like  Larry,"  says  Welk.  "He 
fits  right  in.  He  is  so  stable,  so  reliable 
and  sensible.  For  such  a  young  man,  he 
shoulders  lots  of  responsibilities,  and  we 
think  the  world  of  him." 

But  it  was  a  long  climb  from  his  home 
town  of  Bridgewater,  Iowa — pop.  308 — to 
his  spot  as  featured  vocalist  on  The 
Lawrence  Welk  Show.  And,  on  the  road  up, 
Larry  worked  in  a  steel  foundry  and  a 
department  store,  as  a  dance  instructor 
and  as  a  carpenter's  apprentice. 

Larry  Dean  Bauer  was  born  to  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Loren  Bauer,  June  4,  1936,  on  his 
grandparents'  farm  in  Cass  County,  about 
sixty  miles  from  Omaha,  Nebraska.  "I 
like  small  towns,"  says  Larry,  "and  not 
only  because  my  parents  and  grandparents 
lived  in  one.  In  a  small  town,  you  know 
that  everybody  you  meet  on  the  street 
is  a  friend.  Besides  that,  it's  easier  to  get 
away  to  go  fishing." 

Larry's  father,  a  carpenter,  sang  with  a 
high-school  quartet  and  in  the  choir  at 
Bridge  water's  Church  of  Christ.  Larry 
sang  his  first  song  so  long  ago  that  he 
can't  even  remember  how  old  he  was. 
"We  sang  in  the  choir,"  he  says,  "and 
I  was  still  small  enough  for  my  dad  to 
hold  me  in  his  arms."  Later,  throughout 
his  school  life,  Larry  sang  at  commence- 
ment exercises,  in  junior  and  senior  high- 
school  plays,  and  at  Christmas  programs. 
But  Larry  never  planned  on  becoming  a 
vocalist.  He  intended  to  go  to  business  col- 
lege after  high  school.  Then  fate  stepped 
in:  "I  was  playing  on  the  varsity  basket- 
ball team,"  Larry  recalls,  "and  practicing 
in  the  gym,  when  in  walked  Miss  Jones, 
our  high-school  music  teacher.  She  said, 
'I  need  a  volunteer  to  enter  the  state  music 
contest.'  I  volunteered. 

"I  was  still  in  my  gym  trunks,  but  we 
went  over  to  the  music  room  and  practiced 
for  the  next  day's  contest.  I  sang  'Bless 
This  House'  and  won  in  the  district  finals, 
then  went  to  sub-state  finals  and — finally 
— to  the  state  finals,  where  we  won  a 
number-one  rating.  That's  when  dreams  of 
business  college  began  fading  and  singing 
became  all  important." 

During  the  following  months,  Larry  won 
a  contest  over  one  hundred  entrants  at  the 
Adair  County  Fair.  The  prize:  A  three-day 
trip  to  Chicago  with  his  mother  and  an 
appearance  on  ABC's  Breakfast  Club  with 
Don  McNeill. 

When  Larry  left  high  school  and  began 

working  with  his  father  as  a  carpenter's 

y    helper,  he  still  had  every  intention  of  going 

V    to  business  college.  He  had  enrolled,  taken 

R    preliminary   tests   and   was   only   working 

with  his  father  to  save  money.  Pay:    $80 

weekly.    Then    he    suddenly    received    an 

offer  to  go  with  Ray   Palmer's  Tri-State 


Triumph  at  Twenty 

Band.  Palmer  offered  Larry  $40  a  week — 
and  travel.  "All  my  friends  laughed  at  me," 
says  Larry,  "because  I  was  giving  up  $80 
a  week  for  $40.  But,  by  then,  I  had  been 
bitten  by  the  singing  bug  and  nothing  they 
said  would  dissuade  me." 

At  the  end  of  three  months,  Larry  felt 
the  one-nighters  were  leading  nowhere 
and  he  returned  home  disappointed.  "My 
aunt  encouraged  me,"  he  says,  "and  offered 
to  help  by  sending  me  to  MacPhail  School 
of  Music  in  Minneapolis.  There  I  lived  in 
a  little  room  my  aunt  had  set  up  for  me 
with  a  friend  of  hers,  and  began  lessons 
with  Professor  Harold  Keyes  at  MacPhail. 
After  a  while,  funds  began  running  low 
and  I  had  to  start  working  again.  I  spent 
one  Christmas  rush  in  a  department  store, 
did  some  radio  work,  taught  dancing  at 
the  Fred  Astaire  studio,  and  worked  as  an 
inspector  of  precision  parts  in  a  foundry." 

Larry's  dance  job  came  by  accident.  He 
went  in  for  one  lesson — but  he  learned  so 
fast,  they  offered  him  a  job  teaching.  Since 
he  felt  dancing  might  come  in  handy  in  his 
future,  he  accepted.  "At  the  time,  I  had 
three  jobs  going:  Teaching  at  the  dance 
studio  in  the  evening;  working  at  the 
foundry  during  the  day;  and  on  week- 
ends I  sang  with  Larry  Elliott's  band." 

Again,  Larry  found  he  was  working 
more  than  singing  and  returned  home  to 
Bridgewater — more  for  a  rest  from  the 
three  jobs  than  from  any  disappointment. 
He  told  his  parents  that  he  felt  he  should 
make  a  try  for  a  singing  spot  on  the  West 
Coast.  They  disapproved,  saying  that,  since 
he  hadn't  been  able  to  make  the  grade 
around  home,  they  felt  he  ought  to  give  up 
and  start  his  business  career. 

But  Larry  was  persistent.  He  was  de- 
termined to  make  one  more  try,  and  re- 
turned to  his  aunt's  friend's  place  in  Min- 
neapolis. When  he  arrived,  there  was  a  call 
waiting  for  him  from  orchestra  leader 
Jules  Herman.  .  .  .  For  some  years  before 
going  out  on  his  own,  Herman  had  played 
lead  trumpet  for  Lawrence  Welk.  He  is  a 
good  musician  and — having  heard  Larry 
sing  once  while  he  was  with  Elliott's  week- 
end band — he  recognized  Larry's  talent  and 
asked  him  to  join  his  band  on  a  regular 
basis. 

Larry  stayed  with  Jules  for  four  months, 
at  the  end  of  which  time,  Jules — confident 
of  Larry's  ability — wanted  him  to  try  for 
a  spot  with  Welk.  He  praised  Larry's  vir- 
tues to  Welk  by  phone  and  letter.  Welk 
was  convinced.  It  seemed  that  Larry's 
dream  of  a  secure  future  was  glowing  hot. 
But,  in  order  to  sing  with  Welk,  Larry 
had  to  be  at  least  eighteen  years  of  age — 
he  was  only  seventeen  years  and  ten 
months.  So  .  .  .  the  next  three  months  were 
spent  with  Jimmy  Palmer's  band  in  New 
Orleans.  Larry  auditioned  for  Palmer  in 
Chicago,  was  immediately  accepted  and, 
the  next  day,  started  by  car  to  New 
Orleans,  were  he  opened  in  the  Roosevelt 
Hotel's  Blue  Room. 

Larry  met  his  wife,  Alice,  a  lovely 
Southern  belle,  while  singing  in  the  Blue 
Room.  "My  mother  and  I,"  says  Alice  with 
her  charming  Southern  drawl,  "came  in  to 
have  a  dessert  the  Roosevelt  is  famous  for 
— Cherries  Jubilee.  And  then  I  saw  Larry 
on  the  bandstand  singing  'Hold  My  Hand.' 
He  was  the  cutest  thing  I'd  ever  seen!  I 
said  so  to  my  mother.  She  agreed.  I  asked 
permission  to  have  Larry  join  us.  She  said 
all  right.  I  was  so  thrilled  I  ordered  three 
servings  of  Cherries  Jubilee  without  even 
looking  at  the  price.  Larry  arrived  at  the 
table,  proceeded  to  charm  us  both.  The 
Cherries  Jubilee  arrived  also — and,  shortly 
thereafter,  so  did  the  check.  Cherries 
Jubilee,  it  seems,  were  the  most  expensive 
dish  on  the  menu!" 


Two  nights  later,  Alice  and  Larry  went 
on  their  first  date:  An  early  movie,  after 
which  Larry  introduced  Alice  to  the  ro- 
mantic city  of  New  Orleans — and  the  joys 
of  eating  pizza.  To  Alice,  born  and  raised 
in  Kentucky,  pizza  was  a  novelty.  "Now," 
says  Larry,  "we  have  it  twice  a  week." 

Following  their  first  date,  Alice  waited 
for  Larry  every  evening  after  work  and 
they  walked  to  her  home  together,  hand 
in  hand.  "Walking  can  be  so  much  more 
romantic  than  riding  in  a  cab,"  says  Alice, 
"especially  in  beautiful  New  Orleans.  Be- 
sides, after  the  first  two  weeks,  we  were 
already  thinking  of  marriage — and  saving 
money." 

Without  telling  a  soul,  he  and  Alice 
eloped  to  Mississippi  one  Monday  night 
when  Larry  didn't  have  to  work.  Alice's 
mother  was  somewhat  upset  when  Larry 
went  on  the  road  two  weeks  later  and 
Alice,  in  order  to  go  along,  was  forced  to 
tell  her  about  the  marriage.  But  Alice's 
mother  soon  accepted  the  situation,  when 
she  saw  how  much  in  love  the  two  young 
people  were. 

Larry  was  doing  one-nighters  in  Ames, 
Iowa,  when  he  realized  it  was  no  way  to 
raise  a  future  family — he  wanted  some- 
thing more  secure.  A  friend,  Julio  Mario, 
told  him  that  Jan  Garber  was  looking  for 
a  vocalist,  and  Larry  called  him  in  Beau- 
mont, Texas,  on  the  spur  of  the  moment. 

"Mr.  Garber?" 

"Yes  .  .  ." 

"My  name  is  Dean.  I'm  a  vocalist.  I've 
sung  with  five  bands,  understand  you  need 
a  singer,  and  I  would  like  to  audition  for 
you." 

"Sure,"  said  Garber.  "Fact  is,  Mario  has 
already  given  you  quite  a  buildup  ...  so 
go  ahead  and  sing." 

Larry  was  surprised  at  the  suddenness 
of  the  reception,  and  he  certainly  had 
never  before  heard  of  anyone  auditioning 
over  long-distance  telephone  for  a  singing 
spot  with  a  nationally  known  band.  But 
he  sang,  "Hold  My  Hand"  ...  thinking 
it  had  brought  him  a  bride  in  New  Orleans, 
so  maybe  it  would  bring  him  a  job  in 
Ames,  Iowa. 

"After  the  song,"  Larry  recalls,  "there 
was  a  dead  silence  on  the  other  end  of  the 
line.  I  was  dying  to  know  what  Mr.  Garber 
thought.  He  started  asking  me  questions. 
For  forty-five  minutes,  he  talked  and  I 
worried  about  the  phone  bill — I  was  going 
to  need  two  jobs  to  pay  it  off,  at  the  rate 
we  were  yakking.  He  was  hesitant  about 
hiring  someone  who  had  just  turned 
eighteen.  Finally,  Mr.  Garber  said,  'Well, 
son,  you've  got  good  pitch,  even  over  the 
phone — we'll  take  a  chance.  Join  us  next 
week.' " 

Larry  was  singing  with  Garber  in  Louis- 
ville, Kentucky,  when  Alice  wrote  from 
New  Orleans  mat  she  was  going  to  have 
a  baby.  When  David  arrived  he  arrived  in 
a  hurry.  "I  was  shopping  downtown  in  a 
department  store,"  says  Alice,  "when  sud- 
denly I  realized  David  was  on  the  way.  I 
was  on  the  escalator  going  up  to  buy  some 
baby  clothes,  and  I  knew  I  had  better  get 
right  to  the  hospital.  When  I  turned  around 
at  the  top  of  the  escalator  on  the  second 
floor,  the  girl  with  me  said,  'Alice,  baby 
clothes  are  on  three!  Where  on  earth  are 
you  rushing  to?'  'I'm  going  to  the  hospital 
to  have  my  baby,'  I  replied,  as  if  that  were 
the  latest  thing  to  do." 

And  Larry  still  had  to  work  that  night! 
But,  when  he  heard  the  baby  had  arrived 
suddenly,  he  asked  Jan  to  let  him  off  early. 
"It  was  about  10:40,"  he  now  says  non- 
chalantly— knowing  full  well  that  it  was 
exactly  10:44  when  he  left  the  ballroom 
in  Eldorado,  Arkansas,  for  New  Orleans, 
386  miles   away.  He  drove  non-stop  and 


ran  into  Alice's  room  bearing  two  dozen 
fragrant  red  roses — her  favorite  flower. 
Alice  spent  Christmas  in  the  hospital,  and 
she  and  Larry  and  new  baby  David  cele- 
brated Christmas  on  New  Year's,  when 
Alice  and  the  baby  had  returned  home. 
'Larry  brought  the  baby  more  toys  than 
we  had  room  for  in  our  small  apartment," 
Alice  laughs,  "and  some  are  so  big  David 
won't  be  able  to  use  them  for  years!" 

With  a  family  to  support,  Larry  knew 
more  than  ever  that  he  would  have  to  give 
up  one-night  stands  on  the  road  with 
Garber.  He  had  been  in  touch  with  Law- 
rence Welk  for  some  time,  but  Welk  told 
him  that,  if  he  came  to  audition,  he  would 
have  to  come  on  his  own.  It  was  a  tough 
decision  to  make.  But,  thinking  of  the 
welfare  of  his  family,  Larry  decided  to 
gamble,  giving  up  a  sure  spot  with  Garber 
for  an  uncertain  spot  with  Welk. 

The  gamble  paid  off.  Today,  Larry,  Alice 
and  David  live  in  a  small  though  com- 
fortable, one-bedroom  apartment  in  Santa 
Monica,  California,  near  the  Aragon  Ball- 
room, where  he  sings  nightly  from  9:00 
P.M.  to  2:00  A.M.  with  Welk.  Thursdays 
are  devoted  to  ballroom  rehearsal,  and 
Fridays  to  the  Saturday  ABC -TV  show 
rehearsal.  During  the  summer,  instead  of 
taking  a  vacation,  the  band  had  Monday, 
Tuesday,  Wednesday  and  Thursday  after- 
noons off.  "But,"  Larry  grins,  "we  do  so 
many  benefits  that  the  most  frequent  say- 
ing around  our  house  has  been:  'Okay, 
Davey,  kiss  Daddy  goodbye  .  .  .!' " 

Larry  and  Alice  have  filled  the  apart- 
ment with  furniture  shipped  from  New 
Orleans.  But  they  are  handicapped  by  the 
lack  of  space  in  the  tiny  apartment.  "We 
have  three  rooms  of  furniture  in  the  house 
and  three  rooms  of  furniture  stored  in  the 
garage,"  Alice  says.  "And  no  curtains — 
the  sewing  machine  is  still  in  transit."  Be- 
sides that,  Alice  cooks  on  a  hot-plate  and 


an  electric  fryer — her  stove  hasn't  ar- 
rived, either.  About  the  furniture:  Larry, 
a  handy  man  (having  been  raised  a  car- 
penter's son),  made  their  couch — a  slab 
door  with  iron  hairpin  legs.  And  Alice 
reports  that,  whenever  a  faucet  leaks  or  a 
light  switch  needs  fixing,  Larry's  adept 
fingers  are  what  she  calls  "jiffy-fixers." 

Like  all  young-marrieds,  Alice  and  Larry 
argue  about  some  things:  Placing  the 
furniture,  for  example — or  about  the  way 
Larry  sings  a  song.  "He  generally  ends  up 
being  right  about  the  songs  he  sings,"  Alice 
observes,  "and  I  end  up  being  right  about 
the  furniture.  But  you  know,"  she  says 
as  an  afterthought,  "Larry  is  so  hand- 
some that,  if  he  should  smile  in  the  middle 
of  an  argument,  I  know  I'd  lose  them  all!" 

Alice  continues,  more  soberly,  "Larry 
knows  he's  not  perfect.  He's  not  tempera- 
mental— though  when  he's  right  about 
something,  he  can  be  awfully  stubborn. 
But  he  hasn't  let  his  success  go  to  his 
head.  He  isn't  ostentatious.  He  has  only 
four  suits — two  brown  and  two  grey  for 
work — and  lives  in  sports  clothes  at  home. 
He  likes  shirts  with  the  new  Italian  collar 
because  of  their  comfort. 

"Except  for  his  graduation  watch  and 
gold  wedding  band,  Larry  doesn't  wear 
any  jewelry — though  he  likes  the  cuff 
links  his  fans  send.  I  think  he  wears  a 
different  pair  to  work  every  night.  They're 
his  only  indulgence.  And,  like  every  man, 
he  has  some  one  item  of  apparel  he  won't 
part  with — in  Larry's  case,  it's  a  pair  of 
faded  old  gray  swim  trunks,  nearly  white 
with  age,  which  his  dad  sent  to  him  from 
Hawaii.  He  wouldn't  give  them  up  for 
the  world! 

"The  only  thing  Larry  worries  about  is 
his  lack  of  time.  He's  extremely  conscien- 
tious about  his  work.  As  the  schedule  with 
the  new  Welk  show  becomes  more  de- 
manding, he's  afraid  he  won't  be  able  to 


answer  the  increasing  number  of  letters 
from  fans — and  he's  honest  with  every  an- 
swer. In  addition,  he  writes  to  his  mother 
and  grandparents  twice  weekly. 

"About  our  baby,  David,"  continues 
Alice,  "the  doctor  says  he's  perfect.  Larry 
thinks  so,  too.  Every  time  David  makes  a 
new  sound  or  does  something  for  the  first 
time,  Larry  pulls  out  his  camera  and 
shoots  a  picture. 

"And  Larry's  a  thoughtful  husband:  He 
insisted  on  celebrating  David's  birthday 
when  he  was  only  six  months  old.  He 
bought  toys  for  the  occasion  five  weeks 
early,  in  anticipation  of  the  event — all  of 
which,  I  might  add,  David  will  have  to 
grow  up  to.  And  he's  always  bringing 
home  gifts  for  me — from  flowers  to  a  dress 
or  a  new  lamp.  Last  week,  it  was  a  red 
petticoat  that  was  so  voluminous  I  could 
barely  get  it  through  the  front  door!  And 
he's  co-operative  around  the  house.  Even 
with  his  busy  schedule,  he  helps  with  the 
dishes." 

So  .  .  .  after  four  years  of  trying  .  .  . 
it  seems  that  the  dark-haired,  hazel-eyed, 
earnest  young  man  with  a  heart  throb  in 
his  voice  has  found  a  secure  home  for  his 
baby  and  wife.  It  only  took  the  Deans  a 
brief  moment  to  be  accepted  into  the  Welk 
family.  Larry  merely  had  to  sing  to  be 
accepted.  And  Alice  reports  how  she  in- 
genuously made  her  first  friend:  "I  went 
to  a  party  the  first  week  after  Larry  joined 
Welk.  He  has  the  happy  faculty  of  picking 
performers  who  are  congenial.  This  I  soon 
learned.  For  example,  Muriel  Kesner, 
violinist  Dick's  wife,  came  over  and  sat 
down  beside  me  the  moment  I  came  in. 
We've  been  fast  friends  ever  since!" 

But,  best  of  all,  Larry — happy  and 
settled  on  both  the  Saturday  and  Monday 
Lawrence  Welk  shows  over  ABC-TV — is 
making  thousands  of  new  friends  every 
day. 


cy%a//  Easier,  surer  protection  for  your  most  intimate  marriage  problem 


Tested  by  doctors. .  .proved  in  hospital  clinics 


1.  Antiseptic  (Protective,  germicidal  action) 

Norforms  are  now  safer  and  surer  than  ever!  A  highly  perfected 

new  formula  releases  its  antiseptic  and  germicidal  ingredients 

right  in  the  vaginal  tract.  The  exclusive  new  base  melts  at  body 

temperature,  forming  a  powerful  protective  film  that  permits 

long-lasting  action.  Will  not  harm  delicate  tissues. 

2.  Deodorant  (Protection  from  odor) 

Norforms  were  tested  in  a  hospital  clinic  and  found  to  be  more 
effective  than  anything  it  had  ever  used.  Norforms  are  powerfully 
deodorant — they  eliminate  (rather  than  cover  up)  embarrassing 
odors,  yet  have  no  "medicine"  or  "disinfectant"  odor  themselves* 

5.  Convenient  (So  easy  to  use) 

Norforms  are  small  vaginal  suppositories,  so  easy  and  convenient 
to  use.  Just  insert — no  apparatus,  no  mixing  or  measuring.  They're 
greaseless  and  they  keep  in  any  climate.  Your  druggist  has  them 
in  boxes  of  12  and  24.  Also  available  in  Canada. 


i 


NORFORniS 

VAGINAL  SUPPOSITORIES 


Tested  by   doctors 
Trusted  by  women 


Mail  this  coupon  today 


A   NORWICH   PRODUCT 


FREE  informative  Norforms  booklet 

Just  mail  this  coupon  to:  Dept.    RT-611 
Norwich  Pharmacal  Company,  Norwich,  N.  Y: 

Please  send  me  the  new  Norforms  booklet,  in  a 
plain  envelope. 


Name. 
Street. 
City_ 


(please  phiht) 


_Zone_ 


_State_ 


75 


What's  the  Word  for  Garry? 


(Continued  from  page  36) 
Mr.  Moore,  "in  absentia,"  upon  that  piece 
of  furniture  indispensable  to  all  analysts — 
the  couch.  With  Jayne  Meadows  the  first 
to  speak  about  "what  goes  on  with  us 
behind  the  scenes,"  Mr.  Allen's  Mrs.  Steve 
said  briskly,  "Nothing,  really!  Since  we, 
the  panel,  seldom  get  to  the  theater  where 
I've  Got  A  Secret  is  telecast  until  nine 
o'clock,  at  the  earliest,  there  isn't  time. 
Even  if  there  were,  everything  would  be 
the  same  with  us  as  it  is  on  camera. 
Couldn't  be  otherwise,  simply  because 
Garry  is  a  bright,  up-high,  gay  person- 
ality .  .  .  Faye  is  a  vital,  life-loving,  kind- 
hearted,  gay  personality  .  .  .  Bill  is  a  very 
gay — pixie-gay — personality  .  .  .  Henry  is 
a  chuckling,  quiet,  deep-amusement- 
within-him  gay  personality  .  .  .  and  I  am 
an  emotionally  up-high,  gay  personality. 
Since  gaiety  is  a  common-denominator 
quality  with  all  of  us,  it  follows  that  we 
are  the  happiest  blend  of  panel  and  star . . . 
'You  look,'  a  fan  once  wrote  us,  'as  if  you 
would  like  to  be  in  each  other's  living 
room.'  So  we  would.  And  often  are.  That 
we  all  like  each  other  as  we  genuinely  do, 
however,  is  a  rare  thing,  believe  me  .  .  . 

As  to  what  we  think  of  Garry,  in  pri- 
vate .  .  .  one  and  all,  we  think  of  him 
as  a  Rock  of  Gibraltar!  When  the  clock 
strikes  the  half  hour  of  9: 30  on  Wednesday 
nights,  we  don't  know  what  may  happen 
to  us  .  .  .  except  that  the  most  em- 
barrassing things  can.  Garry  gives  the  con- 
testants a  quick  run-through  just  before 
air  time,  but  we  have  never  laid  eyes  on 
them  until  we  are  on.  Most  of  them  are 
charming,  predictable  people  with  know- 
how.  But,  now  and  again,  you  get  an  ama- 
teur from  outer  space,  and  you  don't  know 
what  he's  going  to  say.  Or  a  contestant 
gets  a  little  klieg-happy,  and  therein  dan- 
ger lies.  Or  one  of  the  questions  we  ask 
a  contestant,  in  all  innocence,  evokes  the 
kind  of  laughter  from  the  studio  audience 
that  reddens  our  little  faces.  The  very 
premise  of  the  show — a  public  airing  of 
personal  secrets — has  a  potential  of  be- 
coming risque.  But  we  are  unafraid  .  .  . 
Garry's  there.  Garry  always  has  to  know 
what  to  say — and,  because  of  his  alertness 
and  innate  good  taste,  always  does  know 
what  to  say.  Whenever  necessary,  he  gets 
the  contestant  (and  us)  off  the  hook,  goes 
right  on,  bland  as  butter,  never  lets  the 
show  sag.  We  always  know  that  he's  be- 
hind us,  whether  we're  right  or  wrong. 

"To  find  the  one  word  for  Garry 
presents  a  problem,"  Jayne  admitted. 
"There  are  so  many:  Endearing.  Ingrati- 
ating. Gentlemanly.  Talented.  Versatile. 
Considerate.  Understanding.  And  gay. 
Tres,  tres  gaiel  But,  if  only  one  word  were 
allowed  me,  I  would  say  'charm' — charm 
is  the  word  for  Garry.  Not  the  acquired 
brand,  nor  show  business-y.  Inborn  charm, 
the  genuine  article — which  includes, 
actually,  all  the  other  qualities — and 
the  quality  most  lacking  in  the  performers 
of  today! 

"Considerate  and  understanding  Garry 
certainly,  and  unfailingly,  is.  When  I  de- 
cided to  leave  the  show  for  a  month  last 
summer,  to  go  on  tour  with  'Tea  and 
Sympathy,'  Garry— although  faced  with  the 
alternative  of  finding  a  substitute  or  fac- 
ing an  empty  chair — was  all  in  favor  of  my 
having  the  experience.  He  really  cares,  so 
to  speak,  about  you  and  me.  .  .  . 

"Nor    is    Garry    the    least    bit    self-    or 
glamour-conscious.     He    doesn't    have    a 
T    high-powered  press  agent.    No  big  racing 
v    cars.     One    of    the    most    conservatively 
R    dressed  men  in  show  business — no  padded 
shoulders,  et  cetera.    He's  the  least  con- 
cerned," Jayne  laughed,  "with  putting  his 

best    profile    forward!     Recently    we — the 
/o 


panel  and  Garry — were  photographed  for 
a  magazine  layout.  Garry  said,  'Take  it  in 
four  minutes,  huh?'  It  was  taken  in  four 
minutes.  You  may  imagine  the  result. 
Garry  didn't  care. 

"Actually,"  Jayne  pointed  out,  "Garry 
doesn't  need  to  care.  He  doesn't  need 
pseudo- glamour.  He  knows  his  place — 
and  this,  to  me,  is  the  most  important 
thing  about  Garry — in  show  business.  He 
doesn't  lift  his  little  finger  to  be  something 
he  isn't.  You  never  see  him  in  dramatic 
shows,  or  knocking  himself  out  making 
personal  appearances.  One  reason,  of 
course,  is  his  own  busy  schedule,  with  six 
shows  a  week,  both  day  and  night,  as  well 
as  his  record  contract.  But  the  most  im- 
portant reason  is  his  healthy  ego. 

"In  his  private  world,  as  in  show  busi- 
ness," Jayne  explained,  "Garry  has  his 
niche  and  knows  it.  His  home  life  is  as 
normal  as  that  lived  by  Mr.  Average 
American  anywhere  in  the  U.SA.  He 
keeps  his  home  and  his  'business'  separate 
and  apart.  He  rarely  does  home  interviews. 
Nell,  his  wife,  a  very  charming  woman,  is 
no  part  of  show  business  nor  has  she  any 
wish  to  be.  Garry's  real  name  is  Thomas 
Garrison  Morfit — and  in  their  home  town, 
and  at  school,  his  two  sons,  Mason,  who  is 
sixteen,  and  Garry,  Jr.,  thirteen,  are  known 
as  Mason  and  Garry  Morfit. 

"At  Garry's  home  in  the  country,  one 
evening  with  Steve,  Henry  Morgan,  Gene 
Rayburn  and  his  wife — among  other  guests 
— I  remember  thinking:  How  home-like 
this  is.  Very  like  my  mother's  home,  very 
comfortable  New  England,  very  backbone- 
of-America  living.  Everything  beautifully 
done,  nothing  overdone.  Nothing  dramatic. 
.  .  .  With  the  fine  and  social  background  to 
which  Garry  was  born  in  Baltimore,  and 
with  the  background  he  and  Nell  have 
today,  no  wonder  he  is  securely  without 
need  of  the   gimmicks  of  glamour.   .   .   ." 

1  he  one  word  for  Moore,  the  key  word," 
said  Henry  Morgan,  "is  thoughtful.  He 
really  does  know  how  the  cameraman 
feels  today.  He  is  aware,  very  much  aware, 
of  the  personalities  around  him.  This  man. 
That  woman.  Everybody.  He's  rigged  with 
antennae.  And,  because  he  is,  Gar — as  I 
call  him — has  an  interesting  weakness  .  .  . 
or  is  it  a  weakness?  He  is  practically  in- 
capable of  firing  anyone.  Some  of  the 
people  around  him  may  be  excess  baggage, 
of  no  use  to  him,  a  drag.    They  stay. 

"Garry  is  a  man  of  extreme  sensitivity. 
He  levels  the  same  way  all  of  us  on  the 
panel  level — which  is  why  we  get  along  so 
well — but  Garry  is  not  an  easy  man  to 
know.  He  isn't  the  guy  I  would  invite  to 
liven  up  a  party.  In  a  sense,  he's  an  intro- 
vert. Considering  his  manifestly  extrovert 
personality,"  Henry  admitted,  "to  say  he's 
an  introvert  seems  a  contradiction  in 
terms.  But  any  man  with  a  forty-five-foot 
yawl,  rigged  so  he  can  take  it  out  himself 
— which  Garry  does — is  an  introvert. 

"I  go  sailing  with  Gar.  Last  time," 
Morgan  recalled,  "we  were  out  five  days. 
At  sea,  you  get  to  know  a  man.  Over  a 
period  of  time,  I've  come  to  know  that 
this  kid  is  nobody's  'creation.'  No  press 
agent's  dream.  A  personality  of  his  own, 
an  original,  he  'borrows'  from  no  man.  He 
doesn't  need  to. 

"A  few  years  ago,  the  late  Fred  Allen 
was  deploring  the  lack  of  comics  in  the 
business.  'Take  Garry  Moore,'  Fred  said. 
'He  doesn't  want  to  be  funny — he  wants 
to  be  lovable.  You  know,  he's  going  to  be 
the  oldest  "boy"  on  TV!'  Gar  probably  is 
.  .  .  and  that's  money  in  the  bank,  too.  The 
man  who  plays  closest  to  the  boy  gets  the 
most  response  from  women,  who  think  of 
all  men — or  want  to  think  of  them — as 
grown-up  boys. 


"Children  like  him,  too.  There's  a  side 
of  him  that  little  boys  also  have,  that  they 
have  in  common.  A  kid  always  knows 
when  you  don't  take  yourself  too  seriously. 
With  an  appeal  to  women,  who  are  the 
fervent  fans,  and  to  children,  who  are  the 
future  as  well  as  the  present  audience — 
what  can  you  lose? 

"What's  so  good  about  Gar  is  that  his 
appeal  is  genuine.  He's  never  'on,'  in  the- 
atrical parlance,  even  when  he  is  on.  He 
doesn't  take  himself  too  seriously,  because 
he's  too  interested  in  too  many  other 
people  and  things.  He's  interested,  in  fact, 
in  anything  you  can  think  of.  And  any- 
body. He  reads  a  lot.  The  newspapers. 
The  magazines.  The  latest  books.  Lin- 
colniana.  A  commuter,  he  does  most  of  his 
reading  on  the  train.  And  his  memory  is 
fantastic.  Ask  him  what  he  thought  about 
the  middle  part  of  *Bridey  Murphy'  (I 
couldn't  read  the  cover),  and  he  quotes 
you  pages  to  explain  what  he  thought. 

"Speaking  of  'Bridey  Murphy',"  Henry 
grinned,  "I  know  what  I  would  be,  if  I 
were  to  be  'regressed'!  Fd  be  a  wealthy 
French  nobleman,  about  18th-century, 
quite  a  fop — lace  cuffs  and  jabot,  silver 
snuff  box,  buskins  (I  have  only  one  good 
feature  and  that's  my  legs!).  I'd  write 
monographs,  very  smug,  very  pleased  with 
myself.  .  .  .  But,  if  Garry  were  to  be 
regressed,  he'd  find  that  he  had  been  the 
ruler  of  some  minor  principality  like 
Monaco  .  .  .  beloved  of  his  people,  both 
rich  and  poor,  and  known  to  his  people  as 
'Garry,  the  Just.'" 

C»Dod,"  said  Faye  Emerson,  "is  the  one, 
the  perfect  word  for  Garry.  He's  good,  good 
as  new-baked  bread.  Just  good.  What  his 
religion  is,  I  don't  know.  That's  just  it.  He 
doesn't  wear  it  like  a  banner,  as  many 
people  do.  But  the  wonderful  spiritual 
values  in  Garry  which  he  doesn't  air,  or 
use  on  the  air,  he  does  use  in  his  day-by- 
day  life.  Nor  do  they  come  out  by  rote. 
When  he  signs  off  the  air — saying,  'Be 
very  kind  to  each  other,  won't  you?' — 
he  really  means  it.   And  he  practices  it. 

"He's  loyal  beyond  belief.  On  his  morn- 
ing show  and  the  panel  show,  Garry  works 
with  many  people.  Now  and  again,  the 
sponsor  will  say  of  someone:  'I  don't  know 
about  him.'  Whoever  the  individual, 
whether  a  bit  player  or  a  'name'  player, 
Garry  goes  to  the  mat  for  him.  He  not 
only  cannot  fire  anyone,  as  Henry  points 
out — he  can't  abide  the  sight  of  anyone 
else  dropping  the  ax,  either. 

"I  sometimes  imagine,"  said  Faye,  "that 
audiences  tend  to  think  of  Garry — so  pal- 
pably good — as  sort  of  a  son  of  Pollyanna. 
Writing  about  him  in  my  newspaper  col- 
umn is  something  of  a  hazard,  I'll  admit, 
not  to  make  him  come  out  sort  of  a 
Caspar  Milquetoast.  Actually,  nothing 
could  be  more  misleading.  As  long  as  I've 
known  Garry,  I  have  never  seen  him  do 
anything  rude.  Or  unkind.  But  he  can  be 
quite  crisp  about  the  show,  if  occasion 
warrants.  Too  much  fooling  and — with  a 
snap  of  the  whip — hell  say,  'We  haven't 
much  time.' 

"He's  a  wonderful  family  man.  With  the 
exception  of  Wednesday  nights,  he  works 
in  New  York  from  nine  to  five,  like  a 
proper  businessman.  And,  on  Wednesday 
nights,  he  always  calls  Nell  directly  after 
the  show  to  ask  her  how  she  thinks  it 
went.  If  okay,  we  all  feel  better!  But 
Garry  also  loves  parties,  likes  to  sit  around 
a  pub  after  the  show — as  we  usually  do — 
yak  it  up,  have  a  bite  to  eat  or  a  drink. 
And,  although  he's  definitely  not  a  'ladies' 
man,'  he  always  has  a  charming  turn  of 
phrase,  a  compliment.  A  regular  guy,  in 
short,  all  the  way  down  the  line. 

"This  is  a  man  with  a  wide  range   of 


interests,"  Faye  continued.  "I  suspect  he 
reads  a  great  deal.  Judging  from  his 
versatility  as  a  conversationalist,  he  must. 
He  loves  jazz  music,  plays  the  drums,  and 
has  a  new  album  out  called  'My  Kind  of 
Music,'  a  special  album  of,  obviously,  the 
things  he  likes  the  best.  He  likes  to  discuss 
politics,  but  always  very  calmly  and 
wisely.  Not  that  he  couldn't  have  a  tre- 
mendous temper — I  suspect  he  could,  but 
only  against  injustice  to  man  or  cruelty 
to  animals.  I  rather  imagine,  too,  that  he'd 
still  like  to  write,  which  was  his  original 
ambition.  The  commercials  on  his  shows 
(which  I  know  he  writes  himself)  are  just 
elegant. 

"Because  of  his  varied  interests,  men 
like  him  enormously.  Women,  of  course, 
adore  him.  Combination  of  the  teenager 
crush  and  the  maternal  instinct.  I  speak 
with  authority  because  I,"  Faye  laughed, 
"feel  the  same.  Always  want  to  run  my 
hands  through  his  hair — it's  that  crew  cut! 
And  I'd  call  him  a  terribly  natty  dresser. 
Never  loud.  Casual,  as  Jayne  says.  But 
sort  of  Ivy-League  casual.  Conservative, 
that  is — although  he's  the  only  man  on 
TV  who  wears  Bermuda  shorts,  come  the 
dog  days.  But  they're  beautifully  cut, 
beautifully  pressed,  and  to-the-knees  Ber- 
muda shorts.  The  only  other  trademark  he 
has  is  that  ubiquitous  bow  tie! 

"His  staff  adores  him.  Once  a  year,  on 
a  special  show,  all  the  people  behind  the 
scenes  come  out  and  take  a  bow — stage- 
hands, 'props,'  script  girl,  musicians, 
writers — all  the  people  you  don't  usually 
see  on  TV,  except  on  Garry's  shows. 

"Animals  love  him,"  Faye  added.  "And 
this — the  love  between  Garry  and  animals 
— is  deeply  mutual.  And  to  me,  also  a 
lover  of  animals  and  the  owner  of  two 
Scotch  terriers,  a  poodle  and  two  cats — 
a  Siamese  and  a  cat  cat — it's  deeply  signi- 
ficant.   As  his  viewers  know,  animals  are 


a  regular  part  of  Garry's  daytime  show. 
He  handles  animals  beautifully,  too,  and 
sees  to  it  that  others  do  likewise.  Once  he 
had  some  rabbits  on  the  daytime  show  and 
directed  most  of  his  talk  to  children,  ex- 
plaining to  them  the  proper,  painless  way 
to  pick  rabbits  up.  And,  when  Zippy  the 
Chimp  is  a  guest  on  our  show,  he  is  ac- 
corded all  the  courtesy  and  consideration 
due  an  honored  guest.  I'm  not  sure  what 
kind,  or  how  many  animals  Garry  has  at 
home,  as  of  now,  except  that  he  has  a  lot 
of  tropical  fish. 

"Lovable  as  he  is,  and  tender-hearted," 
Faye  emphasized,  "Garry  is  never  maudlin 
in  his  sympathies.  He's  touched  only  by 
the  right  things.  For  instance,  one  time, 
when  Garry  had  been  away,  on  the  first 
show  after  his  return,  we,  the  panel,  had  a 
secret!  The  secret  was  that  Nell  and  the 
two  boys,  his  sisters  and  their  husbands, 
all  his  best  friends — everyone  who  loved 
him  best — were  backstage.  You  could  tell, 
by  the  way  he  choked  up,  that  he  was 
touched." 

In  between  pulse-beats,  so  to  speak,  Bill 
Cullen — moderator  of  the  big  morning 
show,  Pulse,  on  WRCA,  New  York  station 
of  NBC  Radio,  as  well  as  a  panel  member 
on  I've  Got  A  Secret,  plus  other  commit- 
ments— took  time  off  the  air  to  say  that 
"aware"  is  the  one  word,  his  one  word,  for 
Garry  Moore. 

"According  to  Mr.  Webster,"  said  Bill, 
"the  word  aware  implies  the  operation  of 
something  like  a  sixth  sense.  Garry  has  the 
sixth  sense.  Because  he  has,  he  knows 
what's  going  on,  all  the  time,  at  any  time. 
It  gives  him  the  'feel'  of  people,  the  ability 
to  understand  them  and  to  be  of  help  in 
any  given  situation.  If  ever  he  is  at  a  loss 
— and  isn't  everyone,  at  one  time  or  an- 
other?— he  manages  to  keep  it  from  us  on 
the  show.  And  that  is  one  answer  to  the 
question  I'm  often  asked:    'How  can  you 


all    be   so   easy-does-it   and    so    relaxed?" 

"As  to  what  goes  on  behind  the  scenes," 
Bill  grinned,  "it's  much  the  same,  as  Jayne 
points  out,  as  when  we're  part  of  the  scen- 
ery on  camera.  Being  gay  of  spirit,  as  we 
all  are,  is — as  Jayne  also  remarks — one 
reason  for  our  being  so  sympatica.  But  it's 
also  because  we  are  all  'pro'  TV  and  radio 
people.  When  you're  doing  a  show — not 
because  you're  a  wrestler,  or  a  columnist, 
or  a  jet  pilot,  or  terribly  pretty — but  be- 
cause it's  your  trade,  and  you're  all  plying 
the  same  trade,  there  is  a  common  bond,  a 
fraternal  spirit,  so  to  speak.  Also,  it's  a 
nice,  pleasant  show,  a  nice  pleasant  check, 
a  top-rated  show  .  .  .  with  none  of  the 
sort  of  competition  that  creates  strain  .  .  . 
so  what  should  we  be  but  gay  of  heart? 

"As  for  analyzing  Moore,  dredging  up 
secrets  about  him,"  Bill  laughed,  "if  I  had 
a  secret  about  him,  I  probably  wouldn't 
tell  it.  You  can't,  however,  have  a  secret 
about  a  man  who  so  obviously  doesn't 
have  one  about  himself!  Garry  is,  more 
than  any  man  I  know,  just  what  he  seems 
to  be.  He  is  interested  in  fishing,  in  his 
boat,  in  animals.  He's  interested  in  con- 
temporary things.  He  is  a  student  of  Lin- 
coln— very  serious  about  that.  He  is  very 
active  in  his  community,  not  as  a  star,  just 
as  a  fellow  citizen.  About  the  things  that 
matter,  he  is  very  serious,  period.  About 
the  relatively  unimportant  things,  he  is 
casual. 

"I  would  say  of  Garry  that  he  goes 
through  life  the  best  way.  Never  de- 
pressed or  nervous  or  irritable.  Not  con- 
centrated on  the  personal  pronoun,  /. 
Healthy  -  minded,  happy  -  hearted  —  you'd . 
have  to  be  hard-pressed  not  to  like  him. 

"We,  the  panel,  do  like  him.  And  that's 
our  secret,  now  made  public,"  solemnly 
averred  Bill  Cullen,  speaking  for  the  whole 
panel — and  for  viewers  everywhere.  They 
all  have  a  good  word  for  Garry. 


lipstick  by 


The  exciting  new  LIVING  COLOR  PINK 
that's  the  talk  of  the  town! 


Copyright  1956,  George  W.  tuft  Co.  Inc. 


Other  Living  Color  Lipsticks  by  Tangee 
in  four  popular  priced  sizes 

PINK  QUEEN  •  RHAPSODY  IN  PINK  •  GAY  RED 

MEDIUM  RED  •  PRETTY  PLEASE  •  RED  MAJESTY 

RED  RED  •  BRIGHT  "N"  CLEAR  •  THEATRICAL  RED 

NATURAL 

Available  m  Canada  at  slightly  higher  prices 


77 


HOLDS  IN  ABDOMEN  SCIENTIFICALLY 


The  tummy  requires  more  hold-in  in  some  areas 
and  less  in  others.  To  take  care  of  this  difference 
we  designed  variable  stretch  V  panels  and  put 
them  into  SLIMTEX.  The  result  is  an  exciting  new 
belt  which  for  the  first  time  really  gives  you  a 
truly  flat  front,  nips  the  waist  and  holds  the  back 
together  firmly.  You'll  feel  so  comfortably  light 
oh  your  feet. 

HOW    THE    VARIABLE    STRETCH 


V  PANELS  WORK 


Imagine  3  pairs  of  hands 
(see  illustration)  each 
holding  a  V  panel 
stretched  across  the  ab- 
domen. One  pair  of  hands 
pulls  harder  where  there 
is  more  bulge.  A  second 
pair  of  hands  pulls  an- 
other panel  but  less 
firmly.  A  third  pair  of 
hands  now  pulls  on  the 
third  panel  but  just  hard 
enough  to  even  out  what 
the  other  hands  have  re- 
distributed. 

You  now  feel  wonderful!  Back,  abdominal  bulge 
and  waist  are  properly  and  firmly  but  comfortably 
held-together.  Once  you  slip  into  a  Slimtex  you'll  never 
wear  another  belt.  No  steels,  bones,  or  buckles. 

*  m  qc  waist  size  22  to  37 
On.y*4  $595 


waist  size 
38  and  up 


MAIL  COUPON  FOR  10  DAY  TRIAL 


78 


WARD  GREEN  CO.  Dept.  E-101 
43  West  61st  St.,  New  York  23,  N.  Y. 
Rush  my  Slimtex  in  PLAIN  WRAPPER  ON  AP- 
PROVAL by  Return  Mail.  I'll  pay  postman 
$4.95  plus  postal  charges  ($5.95  for  waist 
size  38  and  up).  If  not  thrilled  and  delighted 
with  results,  I  may  return  in  10  days  for 
immediate  refund  of  purchase  price. 

Waist  measure Hip 

D  Also  send extra  crotches  (50*  ea. 

5  for  $2.00) 
□  I  enclose  $4.95  (extra  large  size  37  and 

up  $5.95)  (Ward  Green  Co.  pays  postage.) 

Name 


I 
I 
■ 
I 

■ 
■ 


Address. 
City 


-Zone State- 


I 


By  JOAN  DAVIS 
of  "When  A  Girl  Marries" 


Dear  Joan: 

Both  my  husband  and  myself  grew  up  in  this 
little  town  where  fishing  is  the  main  means 
of  livelihood,  and  both  of  our  families  have 
gone  out  on  the  boats  since  I  can't  remember 
when.  But  having  seen  the  tragedy  brought 
into  my  mother's  life  when  my  own  father 
was  badly  hurt  in  an  accident  at  sea,  I  made 
my  husband  promise  when  we  got  married 
that  he  would  earn  his  living  some  other  way 
— although  he  had  already  started  following 
in  his  father's  steps.  He  worked  at  the  can- 
nery for  a  time  but  was  very  unhappy,  and 
now  he  wants  to  go  back  on  the  boats.  We 
have  a  little  boy  of  two  and  I  know  I  would 
go  out  of  my  mind  with  loneliness  and  worry 
if  my  husband  were  to  be  gone  for  long  pe- 
riods at  a  time,  as  fishermen  have  to  be.  Yet 
he  says  it  is  the  only  way  he  knows  of  mak- 
ing a  good  living,  and  I  know  he  secretly 
loves  the  life.    What  can  I  do? 

E.  J.  F. 

Dear  E.  J.  F. : 

You  can  shoulder  your  half  of  the  job,  my 
friend,  and  stop  complaining.  Your  husband 
tried  things  your  way,  and  you  yourself  real- 
ized he  was  most  unhappy.  He  is  evidently  an 
ambitious,  responsible  young  man,  eager  to  do 
his  best  at  work  he  understands  and  loves,  and 
it  speaks  well  for  his  attitude  toward  your 
marriage  that  he  agreed  to  give  something  else 
a  try  because  you  wished  it  so  much.  Now  you 
will  have  to  submit  to  his  judgment,  I  think. 
It  is  true  that  women  whose  husbands  have 
nine-to-five  jobs  are  in  a  more  fortunate  posi- 
tion in  certain  obvious  ways.  But  no  family  can 
be  truly  well-founded  if  the  breadwinner  is 
forced  to  earn  a  dreary,  mediocre  living  at 
work  he  dislikes.  You  have  your  home,  your 
son,  your  place  in  the  community,  and  the 
knowledge  of  your  husband's  pleasure  in  his 
work,  to  sustain  you  even  through  those  long 
periods  of  separation  you  so  much  dread. 
Surely  there  are  other  wives  in  your  town  in 
exactly  the  same  position — and  surely,  within 
this  framework  of  mutual  problems,  you  can 
find  enough  companionship  and  constructive 
community  activity  to  furnish  the  life  of  your 
own  that  not  only  you  but  every  wife  ought  to 


If  you  have  a  problem  you  can't  dis- 
cuss with  somebody  close  to  you, 
TV  Radio  Mirror  offers  the  opportun- 
ity to  "talk  things  over"  with  Joan 
Davis  on  these  pages.  Joan,  who  is 
Mary  Jane  Higby  in  private  life,  has 
long  proved  a  wise  and  sympathetic 
friend  to  ABC  Radio  listeners  in  the 
daily  course  of  When  a  Girl  Marries, 
and  she's  often  received  letters  asking 
for  advice  on  personal  problems.  We 
hope  that  her  suggested  solutions  to 
the  problems  printed  here  may  be  of 
help  to  many  readers.  Letters  can't  be 
returned  or  answered  personally  by 
mail,  but  if  you  wish  to  write  to  Joan, 
your  letter  may  be  among  those  an- 
swered each  month.  Address  letters  to: 
Joan  Davis,  TV  Radio  Mirror,  Box  1719, 
Grand  Central  Station,  N.  Y.  17,  N.  Y. 


have.  Perhaps  you  don't  share  your  husband's 
love  of  the  sea;  but  you  owe  it  to  him  and  your 
child  to  swallow  your  personal  fears  and  create 
a  family  life  as  cheerful  and  rounded  as 
though  you  were  in  the  enviable  position — 
which  nobody  in  the  world  can  be  in! — of  hav- 
ing your  loved  ones  under  your  eye  and  protec- 
tion every  moment  of  their  lives.  For  better  or 
worse,  you  belong  to  a  whole  world  of  wives 
whose  men  will  not  turn  up  the  walk  at  five, 
or  six,  or  even  seven  in  the  evening — the  wives 
of  truck  drivers  and  airline  pilots  and  ships' 
captains  and  traveling  salesmen.  They  have  a 
special  set  of  problems,  but  nobody  in  the 
world  is  without  some  problems  of  adjustment 
and  self-control.  I  believe  the  best  way  for  you 
to  settle  into  a  happy  marriage  is  to  find  your 
own  adjustment  to  the  man  and  the  problems 
you  have  chosen,  not  to  seek  to  force  them  into 
a  shape  so  alien  that  a  worse  set  of  problems 
cannot  help  but  result. 

Dear  Joan  Davis: 

I  am  twenty-eight  and  have  never  been  in 
love  before.  About  six  months  ago  I  started 
going  out  with  a  man  I  met  through  a  man 
in  my  office,  and  the  truth  is  I  think  I  have 
fallen  in  love  with  him.  He  has  taken  me  out 
at  least  twice  a  week  since  our  first  date  and 
is  everything  one  could  want — kind,  thought- 
ful and  good  company.  But  about  a  month  or 
so  ago,  he  failed  to  phone  me  one  Saturday, 
though  we  had  arranged  it,  and  when  he  did 
call  on  Sunday  night  he  seemed  confused  and 
apologetic  and  gave  a  mixed-up  explanation 
of  working  late  and  oversleeping  which  was 
not  convincing.  This  has  happened  three 
other  times  since  then.  At  first  I  thought  he 
was  taking  out  someone  else,  but  now  I  am 
afraid  it  is  even  worse.  The  friend  who  intro- 
duced us  told  me  this  man's  problem  has  al- 
ways been  drinking.  I  believe  it,  since  I  have 
seen  enough  occasions  when  he  took  too 
many,  although  each  time  nothing  serious 
occurred  and  I  was  able  to  tell  myself  it  was 
just  that  particular  time.  But  he  is  a  fine 
man,  and  I  know  with  God's  help,  and  some- 
one who  loved  him,  he  could  fight  his  prob- 
lem. I  would  feel  miserable  if  I  didn't  help. 

L.  McF. 


Dear  L.  McF.: 

You  must  try  to  make  absolutely  certain 
that  what  you  are  dealing  with  is  not  rumor 
and  suspicion  but  hard  fact.  Taking  "a  few  too 
many"  from  time  to  time  is  worlds  away  from 
the  complex  problem  of  the  real  alcoholic.  If 
your  friend  belongs  in  the  latter  category,  your 
next  step  is  also  fairly  clear.  You  must  examine 
your  own  mind  and  heart  with  ruthless  hon- 
esty to  determine  whether  or  not  you  are  will- 
ing and  able  to  take  on  one  of  the  most  dis- 
tressing, heartbreaking  problems  a  human  be- 
ing can  be  asked  to  deal  with.  Do  not  allow  a 
praiseworthy  but  vague  desire  to  help  mislead 
you  into  tripping  into  waters  so  deep  you  will 
need  help  yourself.  It  is  true  that  the  present- 
day  medical  and  psychological  approach  to  the 
problem  of  drinking  has  had  inspiring  results 
in  thousands  of  cases.  With  God's  help  and 
yours,  this  man  may  certainly  be  among  the 
fortunate.  But  are  you  prepared  for  what  this 
fight  may  mean  to  you  in  terms  of  everyday 
living?  It  may  prove  to  be  an  uphill  struggle 
with  victory  at  the  end,  or  you  may  find  your- 
self caught  in  the  sordid,  often  horrifying 
treadmill  of  defeat  and  despair  that  any 
drinker's  wife  could  tell  you  about  in  enough 
detail  to  give  you  pause.  Do  you  love  this  man 
overwhelmingly  enough  to  make  it  immaterial 
what  your  life  is  like,  so  long  as  he  is  part  of 
it?  In  that  case,  your  dilemma  has  answered  it- 
self and  your  next  intelligent  step  would  be  to 
consult  your  family  doctor  or  his,  to  work  out 
an  attack  upon  this  problem.  But  think 
very  carefully!  It  may  seem  cruel  to  withdraw 
when  you  feel  you  might  be  able  to  do  some 
good — but  it  would  be  criminally  unfair  to 
walk  open-eyed  into  a  situation  like  this  and 
then  complain  and  bemoan  that  it  has  not 
magically  become  different.  You  can  perhaps 
remain  a  helpful,  sympathetic  friend — but  if 
you  are  not  sure  of  your  very  deep  love  for  this 
man,  you  might  be  better  advised  to  take  your 
emotional  life  safely  out  of  his  reach. 

Dear  Joan  Davis: 

I  will  be  eighteen  in  a  few  months,  and 
like  plenty  of  girls  I  am  in  love  with  a  boy 
who  is  going  into  the  Army.  My  folks  are 
very  much  against  my  seeing  him,  let  alone 
marrying  him,  and  say  they  will  not  accept 
him  as  a  son-in-law.  There  is  nothing  against 
him  except  that  they  think  I  am  too  young 
to  be  serious.  This  boy  loves  me,  but  he  also 
refuses  to  get  married,  or  at  least  is  reluctant 
to  marry  until  he  gets  out.  Do  you  think  he 
is  right,  or  should  I  defy  my  parents  and  in- 
sist on  getting  married  so  I  can  be  with  him 
as  long  as  possible? 

H.H. 

Dear  H.  H.: 

It's  a  confused  world  for  people  your  age, 
H.  H.,  and  if  you'll  forgive  me  for  saying  so, 
your  letter  sounds  as  if  you  were  pretty  well 
confused  along  with  the  rest  of  it.  It's  roman- 
tic and  exciting  to  be  in  love;  it's  dramatic  to 
defy  one's  parents.  But  it's  also  rather  childish 
when  measured  against  the  realities  and  neces- 
sities of  a  grown-up,  bona  fide  marriage.  Both 
your  parents  and  your  young  man  appear  to 
share  the  opinion  that  you  are  not  mature 
enough  for  marriage — or  perhaps  your  young 
man  knows  that  he  himself  is  not.  If  you  were 
certain  of  your  own  needs  and  desires,  I  think 


you  might  be  able  to  convince  them  that  they 
misjudged  you.  But,  from  the  tone  of  your  let- 
ter, I  would  suspect  secretly  you  agree  with 
them.  Wouldn't  it  be  better  to  admit  this  be- 
fore you  force  what  might  be  a  serious  mistake 
on  yourself  and  those  who  care  for  you?  I  am 
sure  that  if  your  parents  no  longer  fear  a  run- 
away marriage  they  will  not  object  to  your 
continuing  to  see  this  young  man  until  he  goes 
into  the  Army.  Write  to  each  other;  see  him 
when  you  can;  get  to  know  him  better.  But, 
more  important,  get  to  know  yourself.  Then 
you  will  not  need  to  question  and  hesitate  over 
the  most  important  decision  of  your  life.  You 
will  know  the  answer. 

Dear  Miss  Davis: 

I  have  a  problem  you  might  not  think  is 
important,  but  to  me  it  is  terrible.  Last  year, 
when  I  was  fourteen,  we  moved  to  this  little 
town  which  I  like  very  much.  But  I  do  not 
seem  able  to  make  friends  because  of  my 
parents.  Now  I  am  not  ashamed  of  being 
poor  but  both  of  my  folks  do  not  speak  very 
good  English  and  my  mother  does  not  keep 
her  house  the  way  others  in  this  town  seem 
to  do.  Our  furniture  is  different,  old-fash- 
ioned and  worn  out.  And  our  food  is  differ- 
ent, too.  When  I  bring  friends  home  with  me 
I  am  always  sorry.  If  my  mother  tries  to  talk 
to  them,  they  cannot  understand  her  well.  If 
she  does  not,  it  is  worse  because  they  think 
she  does  not  feel  friendly.  So  I  have  stopped 
trying  to  make  friends,  but  I  am  not  happy. 

C.  N. 

Dear  C.  N.: 

Of  course  you  have  a  problem,  and  I 
wouldn't  dream  of  calling  it  trivial.  It's  a  prob- 
lem we  all  share — the  common  human  need  for 
friends,  for  belonging,  for  admiration.  I  know 
it's  hard  to  believe  that  the  others  in  your  class 
who  seem  to  you  so  fortunate,  confident  and 
successful  have  suffered  pangs  of  anxiety  and 
uncertainty  just  like  yours — but  if  you  can 
take  my  word  for  it,  you'll  be  half-way  to  solv- 
ing your  problem. 

And  there  is  another  aspect  of  your  problem 
that  I  think  you  would  find  practically  every- 
one around  you  suffering  from,  in  one  form  or 
another.  It's  a  most  unusual  youngster  indeed 
who  feels  that  his  parents  are  precisely  what 
he  would  have  ordered,  in  every  particular,  if 
he'd  been  asked!  The  girl  next  door  or  the  one 
across  the  street  may  not  find  the  same  faults 
in  her  home  as  you  do,  but  you  can  be  pretty 
sure  she  finds  something  to  criticize.  To  sit  at 
home  brooding  about  your  family's  shortcom- 
ings is  merely  a  way  of  shifting  a  responsibility 
that  is  very  definitely  yours.  Your  mother  can- 
not make  your  friends  for  you,  C.  N.,  and 
neither  can  your  living-room  furniture.  If  you 
like  people  and  want  to  be  liked  by  them,  if 
you  are  cheerful  and  easy  to  talk  to,  if  you're 
willing  to  hear  about  other  people's  problems 
and  share  your  own,  then  you're  capable  of 
giving  and  receiving  friendship.  Don't  blame 
your  parents  until  you've  investigated  pretty 
thoroughly  and  honestly  what  you  yourself  can 
do  to  make  things  more  the  way  you  want 
them.  Concentrate  on  making  yourself  the  kind 
of  person  it's  a  pleasure  to  know,  and  you 
won't  have  time  to  feel  sorry  for  yourself  be- 
cause your  family  doesn't  happen  to  be  perfect. 
No  family  is,  or  ever  was,  or  ever  will  be! 


We'll  send  you  a  lipstick 
free  when  you  buy  one 
VIV  lipstick  and  mail  us 
the  VIV  label  with  your 
name  and  address.  Use 
coupon,  letter  or  card. 
Ask  for:  VIV  Regular, 
$1.10  plus  tax;  or  VIV 
Soft-Touch,$1.25  plus  tax. 

(Offer  expires  Dec.  31,  1956) 

Peel  off  bottom 

label  from  new 

VIV  lipstick 

- ==V    , 

(Offer  good  only  on  lipsticks      Attach\ 
purchased  after  Oct.  1,  1956)     |    |abe)    j 

Send  me  free  Full-Size  \here/ 

VIV  lipstick.  I  prefer 
VIV  Regular  □  VIV  Soft-Touch  □ 
Check  Color  Type  You  Want 

Orange  r— 1     Pink  i—i    True  r—i    Deep  j— i 
Red      L-l     Red  U     Red  L-l     Red  U 


VIV,  Box  4030,  M,  Chicago  54,  III. 


+■  Name. 
I 
I 
I 
f 


Address- 
City 


M 


Zone State 

Offer  void  wherever  prohibited, 
taxed  or  otherwise  restricted. 

©THE  GILLETTE  CO.         ^_  « 


-      I 


79 


NEW  DESIGNS  FOR  LIVING 


T 
V 
R 

80 


32 

I 

N 
C 
H 
E 
S 


7053 


7100 


7338 


7053 — Perfect  playmate — almost  as  big  as 
a  child!  He's  a  life-size  boy  doll,  32- 
inches  tall.  Easy-to-follow  directions,  pat- 
tern for  doll  only.  Dress  him  in  Size  2 
boy's  outgrown  clothes.  25^ 

7338 — Beautiful  bird-and-rose  design  of 
this  elegant  chair-set  is  formed  by  simple 
filet  crochet.  Charts,  directions  for  set  in 
No.  50  mercerized  cotton.  Chair-back  13  x 
16  inches;  armrest  6  x  12  inches.  25^ 

702 — Toasty-warm  slippers — crocheted  in 
a  jiffy!  Ideal  for  gifts — easy  and  thrifty 
to  make.  Jiffy-crochet  boots  and  slippers 
in  knitting  worsted;  crochet  soles  too. 
Sizes  Small,  Medium,  Large  included.  254 

555 — Make  each  of  these  dainty  little 
doilies  in  less  than  a  day.  Two  round 
doilies  about  8  inches;  one  oval  8  x  13 
inches,  in  No.  50  mercerized  cotton.  Larger 
in  No.  30  cotton.  25tf 

7096 — Thrifty,  pretty  way  to  use  up  scraps 
of  any  fabric — by  turning  them  into  this 
colorful  patchwork  quilt.  Pattern,  charts, 
directions  for  patchwork  cover  80  x  104 
inches.  25(5 

7100 — Greet  your  Christmas  guests  with 
this  cheery  "Santa"  face  apron.  Apron,  16 
inches  long.  Directions,  embroidery  and 
applique  transfers.  25^' 

594 — Crochet  a  graceful  bowl — lovely 
matching  doily  beneath.  They're  worked 
together  in  gay  contrast  colors.  Doily-bowl 
combination  or  17-inch  doily  alone;  quick 
crochet  in  heavy  jiffy  cotton.  Starch  bowl 
for  stiffness.  25^' 


Send  twenty-five  cents  (in  coins)  for  each  pattern  to:  TV  Radio  Mirror,  Needlecraft  Service,  P.O.  Box  137,  Old  Chelsea  Station, 
New  York  11,  New  York.  Add  five  cents  for  each  pattern  for  first-class  mailing.  Send  an  additional  25<t  for  Needlecraft  Catalog. 


Most  Happy  Little  Girl 

(Continued  from  page  49) 
tea  I'll  take  you  around,  and  prove  it," 
says  Miss  Collins  crisply.  Tea  is  served 
in  a  beautiful  room  with  an  almost  cathe- 
dral-like atmosphere.  The  walls  are  pan- 
eled in  satiny  walnut,  and  one  entire  end 
is  a  built-in,  intricately  carved  credenza 
(or  Renaissance  sideboard).  A  fireplace 
of  veined  Italian  marble  dominates  one 
side  of  the  room.  A  tremendous  wall 
safe — "that  we  don't  have  the  combination 
of!"— dominates  the  other.  Against  this 
wall,  too,  there  is  an  oval-shaped  walnut 
dining-table  and  chairs,  the  seats  uphol- 
stered in  a  dull  yellow  damask.  By  the 
tall  windows,  there  is  a  small  sofa  and 
three  or  four  easy  chairs  in  the  same 
yellow  damask.  A  pale-hued  Oriental 
rug  covers  the  dark  polished  floor  almost 
wall-to-wall. 

"The  reason  for  the  odd  combination  of 
dining-room  and  living-room  furniture," 
Dorothy  explains,  "is  that  Raymond  thinks 
this  room  should  be  the  living  room,  be- 
cause of  the  fireplace  .  .  .  and  I  think  it 
should  be  the  dining  room,  because  of  the 
credenza.  As  of  today,  we  are  using  it  as 
both.   As  of  tomorrow,  who  knows?" 

Interior  decorating  should  have  been 
mentioned  as  one  of  the  ingredients  mak- 
ing young  Mrs.  Scott's  life  what  it  has 
been  this  past  year  .  .  .  for,  without  benefit 
of  professional  help,  she  has  done,  and  is 
still  doing,  the  whole  huge  place  herself. 
"And  my  own  shopping,  too — and  small 
thanks  did  I  get  for  it,  in  the  beginning!" 
Dorothy  laughs. 

"As  each  piece  came  in,"  she  explains, 
"Raymond  hated  it.  'Worst  looking  furni- 
ture he  ever  saw.'  Colors  all  wrong.  In 
our  bedroom,  for  instance,  with  its  pale 
blue  walls  and  woodwork,  I  wanted  a 
slightly  deeper  blue  carpet.  Raymond 
wanted  gray.  Now  that  he  sees  it  all  to- 
gether, he  loves  it  .  .  .  including  the 
slightly  deeper  blue  carpet  in  the  bed- 
room! 

"We're  taking  it  very  slowly,  though — 
only  about  half  finished  now,  as  is  plain 
to  be  seen.  And  we  are  not  attempting  to 
live  in  it  as,  I'm  sure  in  the  past,  this 
house  has  been  lived  in.  We  have,  for 
instance,  reduced  the  cost  of  furnishing, 
care  and  upkeep  appreciably  by  closing 
off  the  top — or  third — floor.  As  far  as 
we're  concerned,  it  isn't  there.  Also,  of 
the  thirty-two  rooms,  six  are  in  the  base- 
ment— Raymond's  darkroom,  woodwork- 
ing shop,  the  deep-freeze  room  and  so  on — 
which  further  reduces  the  cost  of  care 
and  furnishing.  Nor  do  we  maintain  a 
'staff'  such  as  you  might  suppose  a  house 
of  this  size  would  require.  Once  every 
two  weeks,  we  have  a  cleaning  service, 
a  crew  of  three  men,  and  they  really  do 
it — wash  all  the  tiles,  the  windows,  wax 
and  polish  the  floors,  everything.  So  much 
cheaper,  too,  then  keeping  a  couple,  let 
alone  a  staff!  Otherwise,  we  have  only 
Naka  inside,  a  gardener  outside.  Cathy, 
of  course,  'does'  only  Debbie.  On  Cathy's 
day  off,  I  have  Debbie  all  day  ...  do 
everything  for  her  and  with  her,  even  to 
getting  down  on  the  floor  to  play!  It's  my 
nicest  day.  But,  at  the  end  of  it,"  Dorothy 
laughs,  "I'm  whipped! 

"Actually,  except  for  the  two  days  a 
week  I  rehearse  in  town  for  Your  Hit 
Parade,  I'm  with  Debbie  most  of  the  time, 
have  my  lunch  with  her,  spend  an  hour 
or  so  in  the  nursery  with  her  before  her 
bedtime.  And,  when  we  have  an  early 
dinner,  Debbie  has  hers  downstairs  with 
Mommy  and  Daddy  and  Cathy.  When- 
ever possible,  Raymond  takes  her  for  a 
drive  in  his  car,  just  the  two  of  them, 
which  is  her  favorite  thing  in  the  world 
to  do!    She  adores  TV — comes  by  it  nat- 


OPPORTUNITIES 

for  EVERYBODY 

Publisher**  classified  Department  (Trademark) 


For  daaified  advertiiing  ratal,  writ*  to  William  K.  Stewart,  9  South  Clinton  Street,  Chicago  6  (Wo.-Nov.)  6 


OF  INTEREST  TO  WOMEN 


$350  FOR  YOUR  child's  photo,  all  ages,  if  used  for  advertising. 
May  also  qualify  for  Free  Camera.  Send  photo  for  approval. 
Returned  two  weeks.  Advertisers,  6000YY  Sunset,  Los 
Angeles  28. 

FREE— BIG  NEW  Wholesale  Catalogl  Up  to  50%  saving  for 
you,  family,  friends  on  nationally-known  gifts,  jewelry,  toys, 
appliances.  Christmas  cards,  etc.  Also  make  money  selling 
part  time  I  Write :  Evergreen  Studios,  Box  846-P,  Chicago  42,  III. 
COMPLETE  YOUR  HIGH  School  at  home  in  spare  time 
with  59-year-old  school.  Texts  furnished.  No  classes.  Diploma. 
Information    booklet   free.    American   School,    Oept.   X874, 

Drexel  at  58th,  Chicago  37,  Illinois. 

$200  MONTHLY  POSSIBLE,  Sewing  Babywear— Play- 
Time  Dresses:  lacing  Leather  MoccasinsfNew  Baby  Sandalsl 
No  house  selling  1  Rush  stamped,  addressed  envelope  for 

further  details.  Babygay,  Warsaw  i,  Indiana. 

$350  FOR  YOUR  Child's  Photo  (all  ages).  Thousands  paid  by 
advertisers.  Send  one  small  picture.  Returned  with  judges'  re- 
port. Print  child's  and  parents'  names  on  back.  Spotlite,  1611- 

P-11  No.  LaBrea,  Hollywood,  Calif. 

CONTESTS  ARE  FUN  I  $1  Booklet  by  Esther  Womer, 
contest  hobbyist  and  state  finalist,  recent  Mrs.  America  con- 
test. Esther  Womer  Publications,  1664  N.  Clarence,  Wichita 

12,  Kans, [ 

DRESSES  24c;  SHOES  39c;  Men's  suits  $4.95;  trousers 
$1.20.  Better  used  clothing.  Free  Catalog.  Transworld,  164-A 

Christopher,  Brooklyn  12,  N.Y. 

PROFITABLE  HOME  BUSINESS.  Make  Fast-Selling  che- 
nile  monkey  trees.  Literature  free.  Velva,  Bohemia  32,  N.Y. 
SEW  OUR  READY  cut  aprons  at  home,  spare  time.  Easy, 

Profitable.  Hanky  Aprons,  Ft.  Smith  3,  Ark. 

EARN  $50  FAST  sewing  our  precut  products.  Information  3c. 
Thompson's,  Loganville,  Wisconsin. 

MAKE  MONEY  CLIPPING  Newspaper  Items  For  Publishersl 
Write,  Newscraft,  PW-983-E.  Main,  Columbus  5,  Ohio. 


No 


HOMEWORKERS    WANTED    PAINTING    Novelties. 

Selling.  N.  Roland  R.  P.  1.  VINCENTOWN,  N.J. 

MONEY-MAKINO  OPPORTUNITIES 

GUAflANTEED     HOMEWORKI     IMMEDIATE    Commis- 
sionsl   Everything  Furnished  I  Hirsch,   1301-12  Hoe  Ave., 

New  York  City  59. 

$50.00  WEEKLY  POSSIBLE  mailing  circulars  for  advertisers. 
Complete  instructions  50c.  Siwaslian,  4317-F  Gleane,  Elm- 

hursf  73,  N.  Y. 

MAKE   YOUR  TYPEWRITER  Earn  Money.  Send  $1.00. 

Hughes,  7004  Diversey,  Chicago  35. 

$35  WEEKLY  PREPARING  envelopes.  Instructions  $1.  Re- 

fundable.  Adservice,  Spring  Valley  151,  New  York. 

$25  WEEKLY  POSSIBLE,  sparetime,  preparing  advertising 

mailings  at  home.  Temple  Co.,  Muncie  2,  Indiana. 

$300  MONTHLY  POSSIBLE  mailing  circulars.  John  Hall, 

509-B  Fifth  Ave.,  New  York  17,  N.Y. 

EXTRA  MONEY  PREPARING  mailing  Postcards.  Gul,  1815 

Meyers,  Lombard,  III. 

WORK  AT  HOME  

HOME  SEWERS  WITH  sewing  machine.  Write  enclosing 
stamp  for  working  details.  Liebig  Enterprises,  Beaver  Dam  2, 

Wisconsin. 

$5.00   DAILY,    MAKING    scented    Orchids.   Free   sample. 

Boycan  Industries,  Sharon  22  Penna. 

STAMP  COLLECTING 
GIGANTIC    COLLECTION    FREE— Includes    Triangles- 
Early     United    States — Animals — Commemoratives—  British 
Colonies — High  Value  Pictorials,  etc.  Complete  Collection 
plus  Big  Illustrated  Magazine  all  free.  Send  5c  for  postage. 

Gray  Stamp  Co.,  Dept.  PC,  Toronto,  Canada. 

DO-IT-YOURSEIF 
LEARN  ART  METALCRAFT  and  jewelry  making.  Complete, 
inexpensive,  home  training  course  now  available.  Special  tools 
and  materials  furnished.  Write  for  free  booklet.  Interstate 

Training  Service,  Dept.  L-73,  Portland  13,  Oregon. 

FOREIGN  *  U.S.A.  JOB  LISTINGS 

HIGH  PAYING  JOBS.  All  types.  Foreign  U.S.  Chance  to 
Travel.  Fare  paid.  Application  Forms.  For  Information  Write 

Section  95B,  National,  1020  Broad,  Newark,  N.J. 

MISCELLANEOUS 

FREE  BOOK  ON  Arthritis,  Rheumatism  explains  specialized 
system  on  non-surgical,  non-medical  treatment.  Write  Ball 

Clinic,  Dept  750,  Excelsior  Springs,  Missouri. 

HOME  SEWERS  OPPORTUNITIES 
SEW  BABY  SHOES  at  home.  No  canvassing.  $40.00  weekly 
possible.  Write:  Tiny-Tot,  Gallipolis  19,  Ohio. 


s 


EW  BABY  SHOES 

No  Canvassing.   $40 


AT  HOME   .   .   . 

Weekly  possible 
Write  TINY-TOT  CO..  Gollipolis  32,  Ohio 


BLONDE  HAIR 

is  worth  $l,000,000 


Will  You  Pay  IO<  a  Week 
to  Bring  Out  Its  True 

SHINING,  RADIANT 

COLOR 

with  this  New  Shampoo 
Made  Specially  for  Blondes  ! 

Now,  without  tints,  rinses  or  ugly 
bleached  look,  you  con  safely  give 
your  hair  the  radiant  blonde  color  men  love.  BLONDEX 
the  new  ll -minute  home  "lotion"  shampoo  contains 
ANDIUM  for  extra-lightness  and  shine.  Instantly  removes  dingy 
film  that  makes  hair  dark.  Washes  blonde  hair  shades  lighter.  Gives 
it  lovely  lustre.  Safe  for  children's  delicate  hair.  Get  BLONDEX 
today  at  any  10c.  drug  or  department  store. 


FEMALE  HELP  WANTED 


NEW  HOME  CLUB  Plan  Sensation  I  Style  Shows-Children's, 
Adults'  apparel  easily  earns  $20.00-40.00  evenings.  Prizes, 
Gifts,  funl  Experience  unnecessary.  Complete  outfit  furnished. 

Beeline  Fashions,  Bensenville  700,  Illinois. 

BEAUTY  DEMONSTRATORS— TO  $5  hour  demonstrating 
Famous  Hollywood  Cosmetics,  your  neighborhood.  For  free 
samples,  details,  write  Studio  Girl,  Glendale,  Calif.,  Dept 
1661 1-C. 

$2.00  HOURLY  POSSIBLE  doing  light  assembly  work  at 
home.   Experience  unnecessary.  Crown   Industries,  8507-B 


West  Third,  Los  Angeles  48.  Calif. 


HOME  WORKERS.  MAKE  hand-made  moccasins.  Good  pay. 
Experience  unnecessary.  California  Handicrafts,  Los  Angeles 
46,  California. 

HOME  SEWERS  WANTED— Earn  cash  making  readi-cut 
ties.  We  instruct.  Jud  San,  518  E.  105th,  Dept.  LI,  Cleveland 
8,  Ohio. 

FASCINATING  WORK  AT  Homel  We  pay  youl  No  selling! 

Truart,  Box  710,  Pasadena,  Calif. 

HOME  SEWING.  READY-Cut  Rap^Around.  Profitable.  Free 
instructions.  Hollywood  Manufacturing,  Hollywood  46,  Calif. 
$30.00  WEEKLY  MAKING  Roses.  Look,  SmeirreaT Studio 
Company,  Greenville  12,  Pa. 

AGENTS  WANTED 

60%  PROFIT  COSMETICS.  $25  Day  Up.  Hire  others. 
Samples,  details.  Studio  Girl  Hollywood,  Glendale,  Calif., 
Dept.  16611-H. 

SHINE  CARS  WITHOUT  "Polish".  New  invention.  Light- 
ning seller.  Cars  gleam  like  mirror.  Samples  sent  on  trial. 
Kristee  Co.,  Dept.  144,  Akron  8,  Ohio. 

CALIFORNIA  SWEET  SMELLING  Beads.  Sensational 
sellers.  Free  Particulars.  Mission,  2328AA  West  Pico,  Los 
Angeles  6,  California. 

PERSONAL 

BORROWING  BY  MAIL.  Loans  $100  to  $600  to  employed 
men  and  women.  Easy,  quick.  Completely  confidential.  No 
endorsers.  Repay  in  convenient  monthly  payments.  Oetails 
free  in  plain  envelope.  Give  occupation.  State  Finance  Co., 
323  Securities  Bldg.,  Dept.  D-69,  Omaha  2,  Nebraska. 
PIMPLES?  BLACKHEADS?  SEND  name  for  free  particulars 
on  noted  skin  specialist's  secret  24-hour  formula.  No  obliaa- 
tion.  DU-X,  2735  N.  Ashland,  Dept.  PW,  Chicago  14,  III. 

EDUCATIONAL  OPPORTUNITIES 

HIGH  SCHOOL  DIPLOMA  at  home.  Licensed  teachers 
Approved  materials.  Southern  States  Academy,  Box  144W. 

Station  E,  Atlanta,  Georgia. 

FREEI  "TALENT  APTITUDE  Test".  Learn  acting  at  home 
for  TV,  radio,  theater,  movie  career.  Hollywood  Royal  Acade- 

my,  12B,  5880  Hollywood  Blvd.,  Hollywood  28,  Calif. 

LOANS  BY  MAIL 

BORROW  $50  to  $500.  Employed  men  and  women  over  25. 
eligible.  Confidential — no  co-signers — no  inquiries  of  employ- 
ers or  friends.  Repay  in  monthly  payments  to  fit  your  income. 
Supervised  by  State  of  Nebraska.  Loan  application  sent  free 
in  plain  envelope.   Give  occupation.  American   Loan  Plan, 

City  National  Bldg.,  Dept.  WD-11,  Omaha,  Nebraska. 

MALE  &  FEMALE  HELP  WANTED 

EARN  EXTRA  MONEY  selling  Advertising  Book  Matches. 
Free  sample  kit  furnished.  Matchcorp,  DepL  WP-31,  Chicago 
32,  Illinois. 

HEALTH  t  MEDICAL  SERVICE 

FREE  BOOK— PILES.  Fistula,  Colon-Stomach,  associated 
conditions.   Newest  scientific  procedures.   Thornton  Minor 

Hospital,  Suite  C-1113,  Kansas  City  9,  Mo. 

BUSINESS  OPPORTUNITIES 

BUY  WHOLESALE  I  Resell— big  profits.  Brand  names- 
Appliances,  housewares,  watches,  jewelry,  dry  goods,  sport- 
ing goods,  toys,  gifts.  Free  color  catalog,  1001  items.  Merit 
Home,  Dept.  PWC-11,  107  Manhattan  Ave,  Brooklyn  6.  N.  Y. 
PREPARE  ADVERTISING  LETTERS.  Mail  to  our  name 
lists.  $50  weekly  possible.  Adams  11603-R  Paramount: 
Downey,  California. 

OLD  COINS  &  MONEY  WANTED 

WE  PURCHASE  INDIANHEAD  pennies.  Complete  allcoin 
catalogue  25c.  Magnacoins,  Box  61 -IB,  Whitestone  57,  N.  Y. 

WHOLESALE  CATALOGS 

WHOLESALE  CATALOGI  30-80%  DiscountsI  Appliances. 
Musical  Instruments,  Typewriters,  Tools,  Watches,  Jewelry, 
Cameras,  Housewares,  etc.  Consolidated  Distributors,  1300- 
28  Main,  Clifton,  NJ. 


LEARN  WHILE  ASLEEP! 


PHENOMENAL   RESULTS)      $2  rushes 

(act-tilled  instruction  book,  "Sleep- 

Learninr. Its    Theory,   Application  A 

Technique.    Guaranteed,    research 
ASSOCIATION,  P.O.  BOX  610-V.  Omaha.  Nebr. 

Learn  Causes  of 

Chronic  Ailments 

FREE  BOOK  —  Explains  Constipa- 
tion and  Colon  Troubles 


Avoid 
Dangers 
f  Delay 


This  new  130-page  book  explains  many- 
interesting  facts  about  Piles,  Fistula,  Colon 
disorders  and  Stomach  Conditions  as  well 
as  associated  ailments.  Contains  pictures, 
charts,  diagrams.  Sent  FREE.  Write  today. 
McCleary  Clinic  &  Hospital,  1123  Elms  Blvd.. 
Excelsior  Springs  5,  Mo. 


81 


urally,  could  be — loves  the  cowboys  like 
Guy  Madison  and  Andy  Devine.  Loves 
Howdy  Doody,  too,  and  Pinky  Lee,  and 
starts  her  day  with  Captain  Kangaroo. 

"But  let  Raymond  appear,  and  neither 
the  cowboys  nor  Howdy  Doody — nor  I — 
can  compete.  I've  heard  of  little  girls 
having  crushes  on  their  daddies,  but  this 
is  a  big  romance  between  the  two  of 
them,  a  real  love  affair.  Raymond  walks 
in,  and  Debbie  goes  'Ah-h-h!'  Keeps  pat- 
ting his  arm  and  saying — her  voice  all 
soft  and  silky — 'Da-da,  my  Da-da!' 

"Cathy  is  after  me  to  have  another 
baby,"  Dorothy  smiles,  "and,  God  willing, 
I'll  have  another  .  .  .  others  (plural),  I 
hope.  I  want  more  children,  at  least  three 
more.  We  both  do.  Definitely." 

At  this  moment,  Naka  appears,  wheel- 
ing the  teacart  .  .  .  and — as  if  on  cue  (there 
is  a  smell  of  warm,  fresh-baked  cookies 
in  the  air) — Debbie  also  appears,  accom- 
panied by  Cathy.  At  sight  of  Debbie  you 
understand  why,  at  eighteen  months,  it's 
a  "big  romance."  Her  hair  is  golden- 
brown.  Her  blue  eyes  are  deep-set,  like 
Raymond's.  She  has  a  flushed -with -rosy - 
health  complexion,  a  sweet  and  sturdy 
little  body,  a  look  of  Dorothy  about  the 
mouth  .  .  .  especially  when  she  smiles. 
"There  is  only  one  girl  in  the  world  with 
a  smile  like  Dorothy's,"  Raymond  once 
said.  Now  there  are  two.  She  has  her 
mother's  gaiety,  too,  the  same  winsome- 
ness  and  brightness  of  personality.  And 
she  is  a  singing  child,  with  a  song  to  sing 
.  .  .  just  as  her  mother  sang  at  home  in 
Windsor,  Ontario,  when  she  was  just  two 
years  old. 

When  Debbie — well  fortified  by  cookies 
— leaves  for  some  play  in  the  garden  with 
Cathy,  Dorothy's  eyes  follow  the  small 
departing  figure.  "I  only  wish  that  each 
day  had  more  hours,"  she  says.  "I've 
needed  them  especially  this  past  year, 
during  which  I've  done  so  many  sort  of 
extra  things.  .  .  .  Last  summer,  I  played 
The  Thunderbird  in  Las  Vegas — as  I  did 
in  '54  and  '55.  Raymond  goes  with  me 
to  Vegas,  and  Debbie  and  Cathy,  too. 
At  Vegas  last  summer,  I  did  a  medley 
of  Hit  Parade  songs,  of  which  'Dance 
With  Me,  Honey'  was,  I  think,  the  most 
popular.  All  the  songs  must  have  gone 
over  well,  though,  because  I  broke  some 
sort  of  a  record  and  (here's  where  the 
diamonds  came  in!)  the  owner  of  The 
Thunderbird  gave  me  (look!)  this  won- 
derful diamond  wristwatch.  Whereupon 
Raymond,  not  to  be  out-diamonded,  pre- 


sented me  with  this  diamond  wedding 
ring  (look!)  as  a  fourth-anniversary 
present.  Can  you  see  me  in  diamonds?" 
doll-sized  Dorothy  demands.  "You  can? 
Well,  I  can't.  That  is,  I  couldn't.  I  am 
not,  I  always  said — and  believed — the 
'diamond  type.'  Now  that  I  have  them, 
I  love  them! 

"We  were  in  Vegas  last  summer  from 
July  7  to  August  6.  Then  on  to  Denver, 
Colorado — where  Raymond  would  like  to 
retire  someday  .  .  .  and,  on  the  twenty- 
second,  Nat  'King'  Cole  and  I  gave  a 
concert  at  Red  Rocks,  a  few  miles  out  of 
Denver.  We  were  hired  for  two  nights 
as  a  margin  of  safety  against  rain — which, 
since  you  sing  out-of-doors  at  fabulous 
Red  Rocks,  would  have  been  a  disaster. 
As  it  turned  out,  we  had  the  most  glorious 
night.  Moonlight.  Starlight.  Cars  parked 
for  six  miles,  or  as  far  as  eye  could  reach. 

"Then,  at  Christmas  and  through  New 
Year's — two  weeks  in  all — I  played  New 
York's  famed  Copacabana  for  the  first 
time.  The  number  the  Copa  audience 
seemed  to  like  the  best  was  'When  My 
Baby  Smiles  at  Me'  .  .  .  perhaps  because 
they  felt  it  was  an  appropriate  song  for 
me — practically  a  brand-new  mother — to 
sing.  Quite  a  thing  for  me,  though,  play- 
ing three  shows  a  day  at  the  Copa,  since 
I  had  never  before  done  anything  in  addi- 
tion to  Hit  Parade,  during  the  months 
Hit  Parade  is  on  the  air. 

"There  is  a  great  deal  of  preliminary 
work,  too,  for  such  engagements,"  Dorothy 
observes.  "Raymond  and  I  go  through 
dozens  and  dozens  of  songs — all  the  stand- 
ards we  can  think  of — and  record  them, 
so  we'll  know  how  they  sound  and  which 
are  the  right  ones  for  me. 

"I  was  also  on  Eddie  Fisher's  show  a 
couple  of  times  last  year,  and  Raymond 
and  I  were  on  Person  To  Person  and  on 
Masquerade  Party,"  Dorothy  smiles.  "Ed- 
die is  cute.  He'd  never  been  sung  to  be- 
fore ...  as,  on  Hit  Parade,  Gisele  Mac- 
Kenzie  and  I  sometimes  sing  to  Snooky 
Lanson  or  Russell  Arms.  Person  To  Person 
was  very  exciting,  too.  You  should  have 
seen  Raymond  and  me  getting  ready  for 
Edward  R.  Murrow's  visit  to  us — we  had 
the  cleaning  service  in  that  day,  you  may 
be  sure! 

"All  this,  and  quite  a  bit  of  travelling 
this  year,  too — overnight  trips  to  various 
cities  for  the  purpose  of  visiting  with,  and 
getting  to  know,  the  local  disk  jockeys  .  .  . 
in  each  town,  all  the  disk  jockeys  you  can 
meet,  to  thank  them  personally  for  play- 


$1,000.00  REWARD 


82 


...  is  offered  for  information  leading 
to  the  arrest  of  dangerous  "wanted" 
criminals.  Hear  details  about  the 
$  1 ,000.00  reward  on  .  .  . 

TRUE  DETECTIVE  MYSTERIES 

Every   Monday   Evening  on   MUTUAL   Stations 


". .  .  so  I  poured  kerosene  on  his  body."  Read  "Every  Old  Man 
Looked  Like  Him"  in  November  TRUE  DETECTIVE  Magazine, 
now  at  all  newsstands. 


ing  your  records  on  the  air.  .  .  .  On  one 
of  these  jaunts,  we  had  a  rather  close 
brush.  Not  long  after  the  take-off  from 
La  Guardia  Field — destination,  Detroit — 
one  of  our  motors  conked  out  The  hostess 
was  running  up  and  down.  The  passen- 
gers— including  this  one — were  fidgeting 
with  their  safety-belts.  We  came  down 
in  Washington,  unscathed.  But,  although 
all  the  others  went  on,  after  a  slight  de- 
lay, to  Detroit,  I  stayed  down  .  .  .  and 
visited  with  the  disk  jockeys  in  Wash- 
ington!" 

Speaking  of  the  "close  brush"  reminds 
Dorothy  of  the  one  unpalatable  ingredient 
in  an  otherwise  happy  and  rewarding 
year:  The  rumors.  "Early  last  winter," 
she  recalls,  "I  was  in  the  hospital  for 
several  weeks  with  a  severe  attack  of 
glandular  fever.  While  there,  the  rumor 
got  around  that  I  had  died.  One  news- 
paper called  NBC  and  informed  them — 
can  you  imagine! — Dorothy  Collins  is 
dead.  Russell  Arms  was  called  with  the 
same  grim  news.  Russell  called  Paul 
Barnes,  our  set  designer  on  Hit  Parade, 
who  called  me.  I  answered  the  phone 
and  was  startled  to  hear  a  resounding 
'Thank  God!'  from  Paul. 

"Other  rumors,  equally  bizarre,  were 
circulated  .  .  .  that  I  was  in  a  mental 
home  .  .  .  that  I  was  an  alcoholic  and,  'if 
I  didn't  stop  drinking,'  would  soon  be  off 
Your  Hit  Parade  .  .  .  that  I  never  wear 
decollete  dresses  because  of  an  unphoto- 
genic  skin  allergy.  Another  explanation 
of  why  I  do  not  wear  low-cut  gowns  was 
in  the  form  of  the  quaintest  question:  'Is 
it  true  that  Dorothy  Collins  has  a  battle- 
ship tattooed  on  her  chest?'  Isn't  that 
wild!  A  submarine,  maybe,"  Dorothy 
laughs,  "but  a  battleship! 

"How,"  Dorothy  demands,  "do  these 
rumors  start?  Who  originates  them?  Out 
of  what  fantastic  material  are  they  fabri- 
cated? The  report  of  my  death  was  ever 
so  slightly — wouldn't  you  say? — exagger- 
ated! And  have  you  ever  seen  me  take 
anything  stronger  than  a  Coke?  I'm  far 
too  normal,  dull  though  it  may  sound,  to 
be  eligible  for  a  mental  home.  And,  al- 
though it's  true — the  one  grain  of  truth 
in  the  whole  silly  gibble-gabble — that  I 
never  wear  decollete  dresses,  I  am  just 
not  the  type  for  decollete  dresses.  I  like 
high-necked  dresses,  they  become  me — 
that's  all  there  is  to  that. 

"A  more  recent  rumor,  equally  without 
the  slightest  foundation  in  fact,  is  the 
only  one  I  regret  being  obliged  to  deny. 
'Is  it  true,'  a  columnist  asked,  out  of  the 
ether  (or  maybe  she  was  under  it),  'that 
the  Raymond  Scotts  (Dorothy  Collins) 
are  expecting  a  baby?'  No,  it  is  not  true. 
Sorry.    Genuinely  sorry." 

Rumors  such  as  these  buzz  like  gnats 
around  the  head  of  every  star  in  the  en- 
tertainment world.  To  the  seasoned  and 
sensible  ones,  however,  they  are  literally 
gnats  to  be  brushed  away,  and  forgotten. 
As  Dorothy  does:  "So  many  more  impor- 
tant things  to  think  about  and  talk  about 
— Flying  Saucers,  for  one.  Raymond  is 
on  a  Flying  Saucers  kick.  Since  he  goes 
very  deeply  into  anything  that  interests 
him,  he  has  read  every  book  printed  on 
the  subject  and  has  talked  to  everyone  in 
a  position  to  have  a  responsible  opinion 
on  the  subject.  The  net  result  of  all  this 
research  is  that  he  believes  in  Flying 
Saucers  and  that  they  are  from  another 
planet,  from  Outer  Space. 

"'I  always  believe,'  he'll  tell  you,  half 
in  fun,  but  much  more  than  half  in  earn- 
est, 'in  things  like  that'  He  talks  about 
'things  like  that'  to  me,  tells  me  about 
them.  And  I,  being  a  romanticist,  am 
prone  to  believe  them.  All  the  more  so 
because  Raymond — although  a  romanti- 
cist, too — is  also  a  realist  ...  a  mathema- 


tician,  a  wizard  in  the  field  of  electronics, 
a  thoroughgoing  researcher  whose  beliefs 
are  based  on  proof. 

"Always,  with  Raymond,  there's  some- 
thing exciting  and  stimulating,"  Dorothy 
sparkles,  "something  to  quicken  the  pulse 
and  the  imagination  .  .  .  like  our  trip  this 
summer,  the  first  one  to  Europe  for  both 
of  us — and  I  couldn't  be  more  excited 
than  I  am!  We're  flying  and  we'll  spend 
two  to  six  days  each  in  London,  Paris, 
Rome,  Amalfi,  Majorca,  Zermetz — all  the 
places  we've  most  wanted  to  see.  .  .  ." 

The  small  chatelaine  of  the  great  house 
takes  you  around  to  prove  that,  as  she'd 
said,  Raymond  really  has  a  hobby  for 
every  room.  A  slight  exaggeration.  But, 
considering  the  number  of  hobbies  Your 
Hit  Parade  bandleader  Scott  does  have, 
and  the  number  of  rooms  it  takes  to 
house  them,  a  pardonable  one.  In  the 
basement,  where  the  guided  tour  begins, 
are  Raymond's  darkroom,  wood-working 
shop,  room  for  his  filing  cabinets  and  his 
machine  shop,  a  lavish  and  latter-day 
"cabinet  of  Dr.  Caligari,"  in  which  he 
performs  his  mystic  rites  in  the  field  of 
electronics.  In  the  basement,  also,  a  room- 
sized  deep -freeze,  and  a  wine  cellar  in 
which  four  could  do  the  samba! 

Since  Dorothy  was  born  in  Windsor, 
Ontario,  it  has  been  suggested  that  the 
Scotts  name  the  house  "Windsor  Castle." 
Whoever  made  the  suggestion  must  have 
tried  to  describe  it  all.  You  can't.  At  least, 
not  after  one  visit.  Only  certain  things 
stand  out.  ...  In  the  master  bedroom  up- 
stairs, with  its  adjoining  dressing-room 
and  bath,  the  huge  walnut  bureau.  The 
early  American  screen.  The  TV  set  facing 
the  king-sized  bed.  The  bed-table  lamps, 
with  their  milk-glass  bases  and  white 
shades.  The  bureau  lamps  with  their 
Wedgwood  bases  and  white  shades.  The 
draperies,  a  scarlet  and  blue  design  against 
a  white  background.  The  pair  of  scarlet 
chairs  by  the  white  marble  fireplace. 

Across  the  hall,  the  nursery  suite — bed- 
room, playroom  and  bath.  Debbie's  do- 
main. Pale  pink  walls,  hooked  rugs. 
White  net  curtains.  In  the  playroom,  a  TV 
set,  pianos,  a  hobbyhorse.  Shelves  of  toys. 
Stuffed  animals  by  the  herd.  Dolls  of 
every  sort,  size  and  nationality.  Most  of 
them  gifts.  "Gisele  sent  her  the  funny- 
looking  one,"  Dorothy  laughs,  "the  one 
that  looks  like  Raggedy  Ann,  but  isn't. 
Russell  Arms  and  his  wife  sent  the  little 
Swiss  doll.  If  all  these  toys  confused  her, 
we  wouldn't  allow  her  to  have  so  many. 
But  they  don't.  She  loves  each  and  every 
one    of   them,   plays   with   each    in   turn." 

Down  the  hall  is  Raymond's  "ham" 
radio  room  (here  we  go  again!)  half  a 
mile  of  ham  radio  equipment  in  a  setting 
of  coral  and  white.  White  walls.  Coral 
rug.  Bamboo  shades  and  furniture.  On 
this  floor,  too,  a  fully  equipped  projection 
room.  A  full-sized  movie  screen.  Pro- 
jector. Overhead  lighting.  Built-in  ban- 
quettes of  dark  green  leather.  "The  pro- 
jection room  was  here,  just  as  you  see  it," 
Dorothy  explains,  "when  we  moved  in. 
Whoever  put  it  in  must  have  spent  thou- 
sands of  dollars  on  the  equipment  alone." 

Of  the  guest  rooms,  Dorothy  says  that 
only  one  has  been  done  up  "real  sharp." 
And  the  linen  closet  is  so  large,  she 
laughs,  "that  I've  put  a  pillow  case  on 
each  shelf!  .  .  .  But  we  do  not  intend, 
regardless  of  size,"  she  adds,  "to  have 
'Windsor  Castle'  engraved  on  our  sta- 
tionery. When  we  come  in,  from  wherever 
we  may  have  been,  after  whatever  prob- 
lems or  worries,  or  parties  and  fun  .  .  . 
and  there  is  Debbie  upstairs  ...  all  the 
other  things — gay  or  grave — what  are 
they?  We  know  what  is  important  and 
what  isn't.  So,  when  we  get  around  to 
engraving  our  stationery,  the  name  will 
simply  be  .  .  .  Home." 


never  before  1 


so  comfortable 
so  glamorous 
so  inexpensive 


ff  &o, 


by 


p£tcr  pan 


only  SO 


Permanently  shaped, 

^-section,  circular-stitched 

cups  with  Smoothtex 

lining!  All-elastic  back, 

no-curl  band.  Shrinkproof. 

Permanently  perfect  fit, 

uplift,  comfort!  White 

cotton  broadcloth, 

32-36  A,  32-38  B,  C. 


PETER    PAN    FOUNDATIONS,    INC.,    NEW    YORK    .    MONTREAL 


PAID  if  used  for  advertising.  BIG  DE- 
MAND for  photos  of  Infants  and  up  to 
18  yrs.  May  also  qualify  for  FREE 
CAMERA.  Send  ONE  small  photo  for 
approval.  Print  child's  and  mother's 
name,  address  on  back.  Returned  two 
weeks.      NO     OBLIGATION. 

ADVERTISERS   PHOTOS 
6000-HY    Sunset.    Hollywood    28.    Calif. 


MATERNITY 
STYLE  CATALOG 


SAVE  MONEY-Shop  by  Mail!  FREE  cata- 
log pictures  hundreds  of  exclusive  ma- 
ternity fashions.  World's  Largest.  Complete 
Selection,  Dresses,  Suits,  Mix  &  Match  Sep- 
arates, Sportswear,  Girdles,  Lingerie;  $2.98 
to  $22.98. Catalog  mailed  in  plain  envelope. 

C  RAWFORD'S  jjfr* 

|Dept.  35,    8015Womall,KansasCityl4,Mo      ^f  j 


■ 


Life  is  thrilling 

when  you're  a  R I  yj  N  jj  f 

Be  a  fascinating  golden-top — today! 


MARCHAND'S  GOLDEN  HAIR  WASH 


FIND  OUT  what  fun  it  is  to 
be  a  beautiful  blonde.  No 
matter  what  your  hair  color 
now  —  blonde  that's  turned 
mousey  brown,  brunette,  red- 
head —  with  Marchand's 
Golden  Hair  Wash  you  can 
add  a  glow  of  sunshine  or 
lighten  honey  bright.  Golden 
Hair  Wash  is  the  tried-and- 
true  home  hair  lightener  pre- 
ferred for  over  50  years.  Not 
a  dye.  Nothing  extra  to  buy. 
Fine  for  lightening  arm  and 
leg  hair,  too. 


At  drugstores 
everywhere 
75c  and  $1.00, 
plus  tax 


83 


(Continued  from  page  28) 
pushed  them  aside  and  ran  outside  with 
Bobby  to  play  cowboys  and  Indians. 

I  distinctly  remember  Molly's  first 
birthdav  I  bought  her  the  biggest  doll  I 
could  find  in  the  Oklahoma  City  toy  store. 
You  know  what  she  did?  When  I  pre- 
sented her  with  the  doll,  she  tossed  it 
aside  and  picked  up  her  older  brother's 
cap  gun.  I  was  so  disappointed  I  could 
have  cried.  But  Molly  knew  what  she 
wanted 

My  biggest  problem  with  Molly,  when 
she  was  a  baby,  was  the  trouble  I  had 
taking  her  to  church.  Not  that  I  had  any 
difficulty  getting  her  there,  because  I 
didn't — she  loved  the  people.  But,  some- 
how, she  always  managed  to  be  the  center 
of  attention.  She  never  talked  out  of  turn, 
but  sometimes  she  laughed  too  loudly — 
and  she  usually  sang  off  key.  It  could  be 
a  bit  embarrassing. 

When  Molly  was  nine,  we  moved  to  a 
ranch  near  Tucson,  Arizona.  She  says  that 
is  the  one  year  of  her  childhood  she  re- 
members most  fondly.  Why?  Because  of 
Jennie,  I  imagine.  Jennie  was  a  burro  I 
bought  the  children  to  play  with.  Bobby 
and  Molly  used  to  sit  astride  Jennie, 
riding  around  and  around  the  ranch 
house,  yodeling  at  the  top  of  their  lungs. 

In  a  relatively  small  place  like  Tucson, 
when  a  youngster  can  entertain,  the 
Chamber  of  Commerce  and  fraternal  or- 
ganizations give  them  a  big  break.  In 
Molly's  case,  they  continually  offered  her 
opportunities  to  perform.  For  her  first 
job — I  believe  it  was  at  a  benefit  for  the 
Veterans  of  Foreign  Wars — Molly  insisted 
on  having  a  real  Western  costume.  When 
we  couldn't  find  anything  to  suit  her  fancy 
in  Tucson,  we  drove  all  the  way  to  No- 
gales,  in  old  Mexico,  to  shop.  There,  in 
an  old-time  Mexican  shop  window,  Molly 
spied  "just  the  one!"  Because  we  had 
bought  it  in  old  Mexico,  after  that  trip, 
Molly  referred  to  the  costume  as  her 
"real  Western  outfit." 

When  Molly  was  about  nine,  she  worked 
in  her  first  motion  picture  as  an  extra. 
But  she  was  not  to  work  for  the  company 
a  second  time.  The  picture,  a  Western 
starring  Jimmy  Stewart,  was  being  shot 
in  old  Tucson.  One  particular  scene  gave 
the  director  problems:  Jimmy  Stewart 
and  his  partner  were  supposed  to  ride 
down  the  street  on  horseback — but,  on 
the  first  "take,"  the  back  end  of  a  new  car 
was  in  the  camera's  eye.  And  then  the  sun 
was  too  high,  after  which  the  crew  broke 
for  lunch.  Finally,  after  what  seemed  to 
be  half-a-day's  trying,  Mr.  Stewart  and 
his  partner  once  again  mounted  their 
horses  and  rode  into  view.  As  they  ap- 
proached the  camera  the  director  yelled 
"Cut!"  sadly  shaking  his  head.  Somebody 
had  braided  the  horses'  manes!  You  know 
who  .  .  .  the  director  didn't  have  to  look 
far  before  he  spotted  Molly's  own  braids. 
It's  no  wonder  she  wasn't  asked  to  work 
for  them  a  second  time. 

Because  of  the  motion-picture  extra 
work,  Molly  became  interested  in  pic- 
tures in  general.  But  she  didn't  like  to 
have  her  picture  taken  because  she  was 
afraid  she  didn't  photograph  well,  and 
she  was  shy.  Then,  at  a  dance  recital, 
Molly  won  a  diamond  ring.  After  that, 
she  didn't  mind  the  pictures:  She  always 
posed  with  her  hand  alongside  her  cheek 
—so  the  viewers  of  the  finished  print 
would  be  sure  to  see  the  ring! 
T  One  picture  the  ring  didn't  show  up  in 
¥  was  taken  at  the  Masonic  Temple,  in  Tuc- 
R  son,  where  Molly  did  an  orphans'  Christ- 
mas benefit.  The  newspaper  photographer 
asked  Molly  to  hold  a  doll  appropriate  to 


Talented  Teenager 

dolls  and  didn't  know  how  to  hold  one 
properly.  This  conversation  went  on  for 
about  five  minutes  while  the  newspaper 
photographer  adjusted  to  the  fact  that 
there  are  little  girls  who  don't  like  dolls. 
He  finally  gave  up,  saying,  "All  right, 
then,  just  hold  it  like  your  guitar!"  So 
Molly  tucked  the  doll  under  her  arm — and 
the  ring  didn't  show. 

But  today  I  think  Molly's  lost  "doll 
days"  are  coming  to  life.  Her  room  is 
full  of  animal  dolls — and  all  of  them 
have  names. 

Besides  her  pride  in  her  ring,  Molly 
had  a  favorite  dress:  It  was  white  tissue 
gingham  with  pink  flowers  and  a  lace-yolk 
collar.  It  was  made  for  her,  one  Easter, 
by  a  neighbor  of  ours  down  the  street, 
who  loved  Molly  and  also  loved  to  sew. 
Molly  called  it  her  "Easter  dress"  and 
only  wore  it  on  special  occasions.  One  of 
these  was  in  the  1949  Little  Miss  America 
contest,  where  Molly  won  honorable  men- 
tion. ("I  guess  that  makes  me  about  fifth," 
she    says    now.) 

Molly  was  one  of  Tucson's  top  enter- 
tainers— there  was  hardly  a  function  at 
which  she  didn't  appear.  I  was  beginning 
to  be  told  that  Molly  ought  to  take  a 
crack  at  Hollywood.  But  there  is  so  much 
good  talent  out  there  that  it  was  difficult 
for  me  to  build  up  courage.  I  was  afraid, 
for  both  myself  and  Molly,  to  take  the 
chance.  Then,  on  Air  Force  Day,  when 
Molly  was  entertaining  at  near-by  Davis 
Monathan  Airbase,  we  met  William  Hold- 
en,  who  was  there  as  a  guest.  Molly  per- 
formed and,  after  the  show,  he  spoke  to 
us.  I  told  him  I  was  worried  about  giving 
up  Tucson  and  moving  to  Hollywood.  He 
suggested  we  compromise — make  a  vaca- 
tion trip  to  California,  at  the  same  time 
letting  Molly  try  out  to  see  how  she 
would  be   accepted. 

So  we  took  our  vacation  in  Hollywood, 
where  Molly  appeared  on  Hollywood  Op- 
portunities, a  talent  show  emceed  by 
Richard  Arlen.  She  sang  "Love  Sick 
Blues,"  and  won.  The  next  week,  she  was 
on  Cliffie  Stone's  Hometown  Jamboree, 
over  Station  KTLA,  and  has  been  ever 
since.  Molly  celebrated  her  twelfth  birth- 
day on  Cliffie  Stone's  show,  and  she  looked 
forward  eagerly  to  her  thirteenth  birth- 
day— that  was  the  day  she  would  be  a 
"teenager"  and,  therefore,  "grown  up." 
To  symbolize  this  new  adult  status,  Molly 
wanted  her  braids  cut  off. 

At  the  same  time,  Molly  hated  the 
thought  of  having  her  blond  hair  cut.  It 
was  lovely  and  long,  shining  and  full  of 
life — made  so  by  hours  of  careful  brush- 
ing. I  know  I  brushed  until  my  arm  hurt, 
and  Molly  says  she  brushed  it  until  she 
thought  her  head  was  going  to  fall  off. 
So,  as  the  day  approached  for  the  cutting, 
Molly  grew  more  hesitant.  "I'm  not  so 
sure,"  she  said,  "I'm  as  crazy  over  this 
idea  as  I  first  thought.  I'm  thirteen  years 
old  now,  but  with  my  braids  I  can  still  go 
to  the  movies  for  twenty -five  cents — the 
braids  make  me  look  so  young!"  Thus, 
she  tried  to  rationalize  her  way  out  of  the 
cutting.  (Molly  says  she  wishes  she  could 
get  into  the  movies  for  twenty-five  cents 
now  because  she  goes  to  so  many — and  her 
dates  wish  she  could,  too!) 

The  day  finally  arrived,  and  Molly  and 
I  trooped  off  to  Frank  and  Joseph's  Salon 

DON'T  FORGET  TO  VOTE! 

Cast  your  vote  for  your  favorite  stars 
and  programs  on  the  ballot  in 

December  TV  RADIO  MIRROR 


84 


the   occasion.   Molly  said  she   didn't  like      on  sale  at  your  newsstand  November  6 


here  in  Hollywood.  Molly  never  thought 
about  setting  her  hair.  She  used  to  curl 
it  with  an  iron,  and  she  had  a  white 
streak  right  on  top  of  the  bangs  from  the 
hot  metal.  When  Mr.  Frank  came  in,  he 
was  surprised  at  the  length  and  beauty 
of  Molly's  hair,  but  he  was  more  sur- 
prised at  the  white  streak.  He  exclaimed, 
"What's  this  strange  white  mop  up  here 
in  front?" 

Mr.  Frank  told  Molly  he  was  going  to 
cut  her  hair  in  a  very  special  way.  And 
I  know  he  took  a  great  deal  of  trouble 
to  do  an  extra  special  job.  (After  the 
first  clip  of  the  scissors,  Molly  let  out  a 
plaintive  peep,  but  she  was  brave  for 
the  rest  of  the  sitting.)  Then  she  rushed 
home,  took  Mr.  Frank's  very  special  cut 
and  tried  it  in  half-a-dozen  different 
styles.  The  last  one  was  a  pony-tail,  and 
she  hasn't  taken  it  down  since. 

Today,  Molly's  life  is  filled  with  her 
work  and  her  beaus.  What  little  free 
time  she  has,  she  spends  telephoning. 
She's  on  that  phone  the  first  minute  she 
comes  in  the  door.  If  anyone  has  tried  to 
call  this  number  after  four  o'clock,  I'm 
sure  they  know  what  I  mean.  Many 
times  I've  tried  to  call  in,  and  haven't 
been  able  to  get  through — and,  when  I 
got  home,  she  would  still  be  on  the  phone. 
Also,  many  of  Molly's  fans  ask,  when  they 
meet  her,  "Can  I  call  you  up  some  time?" 
She  says  sure,  why  not — and,  the  next 
week,  the  line  is  even  busier.  Since 
everybody  knows  the  number  anyway, 
it  might  as  well  be  listed! 

If  she  has  half  an  hour  when  she's  not 
on  the  phone,  Molly  will  head  for  the 
kitchen.  She's  a  good  cook,  and  has  been 
under  my  feet  in  the  kitchen  ever  since 
she  was  a  baby.  The  only  problem  is 
that  she  has  never  liked  to  clean  up — 
and  she  uses  every  dish  available.  Molly's 
favorite  foods  are  salads  and  spaghetti 
and  pizza.  At  least  once  a  week,  we  have 
an  Italian  dinner.  When  she  was  a  baby, 
she  would  eat  anything — it  wasn't  safe  to 
leave  a  morsel  of  food  around  the  house. 
Today,  she  is  fortunate  because  she  does 
not  have  to  Watch  her  weight.  In  fact, 
she  is  proud  of  her  waistline.  She  wears 
toreador  pants  very  often.  Like  all  girls, 
she  thinks  she  never  has  enough  clothes. 
And,  of  all  the  clothes  she  buys,  she  has 
more  toreador  pants  than  anything  else.' 
She  has  at  least  one  pair  of  each  model 
that  has  ever  been  on  display — if  she 
doesn't  have  them,  then  she  just  missed 
seeing  them. 

Molly's  weekly  schedule  begins  with 
rehearsal  fairly  early  Monday  morning, 
for  the  Tennessee  Ernie  Ford  Show.  Then 
the  show  itself  later  on,  and  rehearsal  for 
two  hours  afterward  every  day.  Monday 
afternoon,  she  has  dance  class;  Tuesday 
and  Thursday,  she  has  her  hair  fixed; 
Wednesday,  she  has  dramatic  class; 
Thursday,  voice;  and  Friday  is  devoted  to 
interviews.  Friday  is  also  "date  night." 
She  rehearses  with  Cliffie  Stone's  Home- 
town Jamboree  Saturday  afternoon,  for 
the  Saturday-night  show.  Sunday,  she 
rests,  has  an  early  date  and  prepares  for 
her  daily  lessons  at  the  Hollywood  Pro- 
fessional School.  I  try  to  see  that  Molly 
gets  as  much  rest  as  she  can. 

Each  day,  when  Molly  comes  in,  we 
plunk  down  on  the  bed  in  her  room  and 
I  say,  "Well,  what  happened  today?" 
While  she  is  changing,  I  get  a  full  re- 
port— if  I  don't  get  it,  my  day  is  a  loss! 
And,  when  she  comes  home  from  a  date,  I 
ask  her,  "Did  you  have  fun?  What  did 
you  do  .  .  .?" 

Today — finally  surrounded  by  her  dolls 
— it's  kind  of  sad  to  see  my  little  girl 
growing  up. 


Caesar's  New  "Wife" 

(Continued  from  page  38) 
describe  her  in  a  few  words,"  says  hus- 
band Nick  Mayo,  a  theatrical  producer - 
director,  "but  Janet  is  the  most  versatile 
woman  I've  ever  known.  There's  hardly 
a  subject  brought  up  that  she  doesn't 
know  something  about — or  want  to  know. 
She's  interested  in  everything  from  bak- 
ing bread  to  modern  art.  I  could  say  to 
her  at  breakfast,  'Let's  go  to  the  Statue 
of  Liberty  this  morning' — and  she'd  be 
ready.  But,  as  versatile  as  she  is  as  a 
woman,  she  is  even  more  so  profes- 
sionally." 

A  singer  -  actress  -  dancer  -  comedienne, 
Janet  has  worked  on  the  stage,  in  movies, 
night  clubs,  radio  and  television.  When 
she  made  a  guest  appearance  with  Jimmy 
Durante,  his  writers  asked  what  she  would 
do.  "She  can  do  anything,"  said  Durante. 
Janet  decided  to  take  off  her  shoes  and 
do  a  song  and  dance  on  top  of  Jimmy's 
piano.  When  she  starred  on  the  TV 
spectacular,  "One  Touch  of  Venus,"  she 
was  cast  as  the  most  beautiful  woman  in 
the  world.  In  one  of  her  many  guest  ap- 
pearances with  Milton  Berle,  she  did  a 
funny  dance  in  baggy  pants.  When  Rod- 
gers  and  Hammerstein  saw  her  in  the 
baggy -pants  routine,  they  chose  her  to  star 
in  the  national  company  of  "South  Pacific." 
But,  in  private  life,  you'll  never  find  her 
in  baggy  pants — although  you  may  find 
her  in  jeans  and  gardener's  gloves. 

"When  we  moved  into  this  penthouse," 
,  says  Janet,  "we  hardly  knew  what  a  seed 
looked  like.  Now  look!"  The  garden  has 
been  planted  next  to  the  sky.  The  Mayos 
make  their  home  in  a  penthouse  apart- 
ment surrounded  by  a  tenth-acre  of  roof- 
top terrace.  They  brought  up  soil,  banked 
it  off  with  bricks,  painted  the  bricks  white, 
and  put  in  flowers,  shrubs,  vines  and 
trees.  There  is  a  twelve-foot  weeping 
willow  which  was  brought  up  to  the  pent- 
house on  top  of  an  elevator.  There  are 
also  pear,  apple  and  dogwood  trees.  They 
have  planted  wisteria,  rosebushes  and  a 
variety  of  flowers.  There  is  even  a  grape- 
vine. "Last  season,  we  harvested  twenty 
bunches,"  Janet  says.  "Next  year,  Nick 
is  going  to  put  out  some  tomato  plants." 

Their  penthouse  is  in  Manhattan's  East 
50's,  overhanging  a  cliff  which  overhangs 
the  East  River.  The  decorations  of  the 
apartment  take  their  cue  from  Janet. 
Her  hairdo  is  Roman  (she  created  it  for 
her  role  of  Venus),  but  her  architecture 
is  quite  modern.  The  furnishings,  too, 
are  classical  modern,  with  contrasts  in 
warm  and  light  colors,  with  rich  woods 
and  touches  of  highly  polished  brass  and 
glass  for  sparkle. 

"It's  real  nice  to  come  home  to,"  says 
Janet.  "The  luckiest  thing  that  can  hap- 
pen to  Nick  and  me  is  to  be  home  to- 
gether. So  often  we've  been  separated,  I 
in  Hollywood  and  Nick  in  New  York.  Or 
I've  been  in  New  York  and  Nick's  been 
on  the  road.  Or  each  of  us  on  the  road 
with  different  shows." 

The  first  year  of  their  marriage,  they 
lived  in  one  hotel  after  another,  a  differ- 
ent one  every  week.  Nick  was  stage 
manager  of  the  national  company  of  "South 
Pacific."  Janet  was  starred  as  Nellie  For- 
bush.  Besides  winning  a  husband,  she 
set  a  record.  In  three-and-a-half  years, 
she  did  1,263  performances — without  miss- 
ing a  single  one.  "She  went  through  five 
disappointed    understudies,"    Nick    recalls. 

The  company  traveled  all  over  the 
country,  surviving  storms,  train  wrecks 
and  romance.  The  romance  between  Nick 
and  Janet  was  without  precedent.  Nick 
explains,  "The  stage  manager  is  the  direc- 
tor on  the  road  and  also  the  taskmaster. 
For  that  reason — and  others — it's  not  cus- 


GIANT  TOY  COLLECTION 


All  For  Only 


S<- 


00 


Postpaid 


55*8^ 


&&& 


>>\i 


Hour*  and  Hewn  of  FUN! 

Here's  everything  a  boy  and  girl  ever  dreamed  of— Tractors.  Cars.  Trucks, 
Space  Ships,  Circus  Animals,  Farm  Animals,  Railroad  Engines  and  Cars, 
Soldiers,  Cowboys  and  Indians,  Tanks,  Bazookas,  Cruisers,  Tanks,  Artillery, 
Farm    Equipment,   Heavy  Road  Equipment,  jets.  Bombers,  Rockets,  etc. 

NOT  AVAILABLE  IN  STORES 

True,  TWO  DIMENSIONAL  reproductions  of  expensive  toys.  Made  from 
durable  material  which  you  can  use  indefinitely.  You  take  no  risk! 
Order  extra  sets  for  all  the  kids  (Limit  is  3  sets  to  a  customer).  Use  the 
coupon  below  and  your  GIANT  TOY  COLLECTION  will  be  sent  postpaid. 


MONEY   BACK   GUARANTEE 


.7> 


iB«iToyMfg.Dept.3012,114  E.  32  St:,  New  York  16,  N.  Y. 

Dear  Sirs.  P|ease  rush  me sets  of  GIANT  TOY  COLLECTION 

a  SI  00  per  set.    i  enclose  i Q  Check      Q  Cash      □Money  Order 

(Sorry  no  COD  s) 


LIMIT  -  3  Sets  To  A  Customer 


Brej  Toy  Mfg      Oepi  301  2 

114  E.  32  St.,  New  York  16,  N.  Y. ' 


Address. 
Ciiy 


.Zone- 


-Stare. 


MI6H  SCHOOLS 


No  classes  to  attend.  Easy  spare-time  train- 1 
ing  covers  big  choice  of  subjects.  Friendly  \ 
instructors;  standard  texts.  Full  credit  for\ 
previous  schooling.     Diploma  awarded. 
Write  now  for  FREE  catalog  I 

WAYNE    SCHOOL  Catalog  HH-40 
2527  Sheffield  Ave.,  Chicago  14,  Illinois, 


ADVANCE 
ROYALTY 


MrTOH.l 


TO  THE  WRITER 
OF  BEST  SONG 

SELECTED 
EACH  MONTH 


Send  your  songs  or  poems  today. 
Music  composed  for  your  words.  Re- 
cords and  copies  furnished.  Let  us  try 
to   help  you  be  a   success  in  this  field. 

HOLLYWOOD  TUNESMITHS 

1603  Vista  Del  Mar.  Depl  D,        Hollywood  28.  Calil 


drawme 


YOU  MAY  WIN  A 

$375.00  SCHOLARSHIP  IN 

PROFESSIONAL  ART 

Winner  gets  a  complete  art  course 
— free  training  for  a  career  in  ad- 
vertising art  or  illustrating.  You're 
coached,    individually,    by    profes- 
sional artists  on  the  staff  of  world's 
largest  home  study  art  school.  Many 
successful  artists  today  are  graduates 
of  this  school,  founded  over  40  years 
ago.  Try  for  this  free  art  course!  Win- 
ner also  gets  a  drawing  outfit  and  a 
series  of  valuable  art  textbooks. 


ART  INSTRUCTION,  INC.  •   STUDIO  10396 
500  South  4th  Street    •     Minneapolis  15,  Minnesota 
Please  enter  my  drawing  in  your  "Draw  Me"  contest. 
(PLEASE  PRINT) 


Name- 


Address- 
County 


-AGE- 
_G'ry_ 


Phone— 


_Zone_ 


_Sto/e_ 


-Occupation^ 


DRAW  THIS  GIRL'S  HEAD 
5  inches  high.  Use  pencil. 
Drawings  for  November 
1956  contest  must  be  re- 
ceived by  November  30. 
None  returned.  Winner 
notified.  Amateurs  only. 
Our  students  not  eligible. 
Mail  drawing  today. 


85 


J 


Sentimental  WEDDING  RING  $&jE%  SET 

Complete  with 
RING  BEARER'S   PILLOW 


ONLY 


50. 


86 


Bargain — to  get  new  customers!  An  endearing 
wedding  or  anniversary  remembrance  you'll 
cherish  forever.  This  beautiful,  imported 
ceramic'  set  has  two  gleaming  gold  color  rings  nestling 
in  a  charming  ivory  color  ring  bearer's  pillow.  Each 
ring  is  removable;  one  pours  salt,  the  other  pepper. 
An  ideal  gift  for  that  favorite  couple  or  relative. 

SATISFACTION  GUARANTEED  OR  MONEY  BACK 
The  complete  set  is  available  (without  personalization) 
for  only  50c.  However,  for  only  20c  extra,  we'll 
artistically  hand-letter  any  first  nam.es  and  wedding 
date  in  24K  gold.  Not  more  than  two  Sets  to  each 
customer.  Add  only  1 5c  to  each  Set  ordered  for  post- 
age and  handling.  No  C.O.D.'s  please. 
Dobbs  Products  Co.,  1255  S.  Wabash,  Dept.  256,  Chicago  5 


tomary  for  the  stage  manager  to  fall  in 
love  with  the  leading  lady.  Usually,  the 
leading  man  has  that  privilege.  But  love 
can  make  a  monkey  out  of  privilege.  Any- 
way, as  stage  manager  and  director,  I  got 
to  know  Janet  well  and  we  kind  of  eased 
into  love." 

As  a  wedding  gift,  Rodgers  and  Ham- 
merstein  presented  the  Mayos  with  a 
silver  cigarette  box.  "Later,  as  it  hap- 
pened," Nick  observes,  "they  did  'Me  and 
Juliet,'  a  show  about  a  stage  manager 
falling  in  love  with  the  star.  Actually, 
Janet  and  I  established  a  contagious  cus- 
tom. When  we  left  the  company,  the 
Nellie  Forbush  and  stage  manager  who 
followed  fell  in  love  and  married.  And, 
when  they  left,  their  successors  did  the 
same." 

Nick's  and  Janet's  wedding  was  in  it- 
self something  less  than  a  smooth  pro- 
duction. They  were  married  on  October 
5,  1952,  during  a  "split  week."  The  first 
three  days  of  the  week,  "South  Pacific" 
appeared  in  Berkeley  and,  the  last  half, 
in  Richmond,  California.  Nick  and  Janet 
were  to  wed  en  route,  in  San  Francisco. 

"The  train  which  was  carrying  best 
man  and  wedding  ring,  maid  of  honor 
and  invited  guests,  broke  down,"  Janet 
recalls,  "and  it  was  muggy  and  raining. 
I  showered  and  dressed  for  the  wedding 
three  times.  Nick  complained  that  he  had 
a  three-day  beard  by  the  time  the  cere- 
mony took  place.  The  ceremony  was  sev- 
eral hours  late,  but  dependable  Janet  kept 
up  her  record  and  didn't  miss  the  show 
performance.  The  whole  cast  attended, 
and  then  went  on  to  Richmond.  "Although 
it's  very  romantic,"  says  Janet,  "there's 
nothing  domesticated  about  a  marriage 
when  you're  on  tour.  You  live  out  of 
trunks.  You  save  up  your  soiled  clothes 
until  Monday,  when  you're  in  a  new 
town,  then  send  them  right  out  to  a  one- 
day  laundry — and  hope  it'll  get  back  by 
the  end  of  the  week.  You  do  all  of  your 
eating  in  restaurants.  It  was  thirteen 
months  before  I  gave  Nick  his  first  home- 
made meal." 

The  discomforts  were  not  a  novelty  to 
either  Nick  or  Janet.  Nick  started  in 
show  business  when  he  was  eighteen  and 
a  student  of  drama  at  Los  Angeles  City 
College.  He  and  some  classmates  operated 
a  successful  year-round  stock  company 
at  the  Hollytown  Theater  in  Hollywood. 
After  graduation  he  wrote  and  directed 
the  original  radio  series,  The  Dream  Doc- 
tor. He  worked  for  a  time  at  Station 
KIDO  in  Boise,  Idaho.  On  to  Broadway, 
where  he  got  established  as  an  actor,  but 
suffered  through  thirteen  consecutive  flops 
in  a  row.  However,  Rodgers  and  Ham- 
merstein  and  producers  Logan  and  Hay- 
ward  were  more  impressed  by  his  ability 
than  his  bad  luck,  and  signed  him  on  as 
stage  manager  for  "South  Pacific." 

Nick  was  born  in  Philadelphia.  Janet 
was  born  on  the  other  side  of  Pennsyl- 
vania— in  Altoona.  Her  family  lived  music. 
Her  mother  was  organist  for  the  Lutheran 
Church  and  her  father,  Fred  Blair  Laff- 
erty,  was  the  baritone  lead  in  the  choir. 
"Well,  everyone  in  the  choir  was  a  Laff- 
erty,"  says  Janet.  "If  you  wanted  to  sing 
in  the  choir,  and  your  name  wasn't  Laffer- 
ty,  you  just  had  to  join  another  church — 
for,  as  the  Lafferty  children  came  of  sing- 
ing age,  they  joined  the  choir,  too.  Actu- 
ally, the  Laffertys  never  stop  singing. 
They  sing  when  they're  eating,  driving, 
cooking  and  talking.  They're  the  biggest 
hams  I've  ever  known.  When  I  get  home, 
they'll  never  ask  me  to  sing — because 
they're  too  busy  listening  to  themselves." 

Janet  is  the  first  Lafferty  to  turn  pro- 
fessional. Her  training  actually  began  at 
the  age  of  four,  as  a  ballet  student.  "I 
was  the  worst,"  she  remembers.    "My  feet 


hSd<i 


en 

rs. 
ird 

nd 

•p- 


were  in  the  air  more  often  than  my  h 
but  it  made  me  work  even  harder.  ^_ 
then  I  was  homely,  as  well  as  clumsy,  and 
what's  worse  for  a  growing  girl?     I  even 
wore  braces  on  my  teeth  for  seven  years, 
All  these  things  made  me  work  extra  har< 
to  be  good." 

She  became  a  prize  ballet  student  an 
was  chosen  to  audition  for  a  famous  Ne 
York  teacher,  although  her  parents  ve 
toed  the  idea  of  her  going  away  from  home 
to  study.  But  she  didn't  give  up  ballet 
until  high  school,  when  her  father  insisted 
that  she  study  voice.  "I  had  a  deep  voice," 
Janet  recalls.  "Sounded  like  a  man.  I 
even  did  imitations  of  Bing  Crosby.  But 
my  father  worried  about  my  fondness  for 
popular  music,  so  he  insisted  that  I  study 
serious  music." 

Within  four  months,  Janet  had  developed 
a  range  of  three  octaves,  topped  off  at 
high  C.  She  was  designated  a  contralto 
and  became  soloist  with  the  school's 
A  Capella  choir,  which  won  many  prizes. 
She  was  singing  operatic  arias,  and  pro- 
gressing so  rapidly  that  she  was  hauled 
off  to  New  York  again — this  time  to  sing 
for  a  Juilliard  School  of  Music  teacher 
who  decided  Janet  was  not  a  contralto 
but  a  dramatic  soprano. 

"I  enjoyed  all  of  it,"  says  Janet,  "and, 
to  this  day,  study  opera.  But,  during  high 
school,  I  had  an  especially  strong  feeling 
for  pop  music.  During  those  years,  there 
was  a  friend  of  the  family,  Alex  Holden, 
who  was  business  manager  for  Hal  Kemp. 
Alex  used  to  pat  my  head  and  say, 
'When  you  grow  up,  you  can  sing  with 
the  band.'  Well,  I  took  him  seriously  and 
used  to  dream  of  the  day  I'd  sing  with 
the  Kemp  band." 

It  shouldn't  have  happened — but  it  did. 
The  day  after  Janet  was  graduated  from 
high  school,  she  had  a  phone  call  from 
Alex  Holden.  The  Kemp  band  was  play- 
ing the  Stanley  Theater  in  Pittsburgh, 
just  ninety  miles  away  from  Altoona.  The 
band  was  without  a  singer,  and  Janet  was 
invited  to  come  down  and  audition.  "I  was 
a  fright,"  she  recalls,  "dressed  in  typical 
Joe  College  clothes.  I  wore  crepe-soled 
shoes,  bobby-socks,  a  bunny  jacket,  and 
a  hat  with  a  Robin  Hood  feather."  That 
was  the  way  she  walked  on  the  Stanley 
stage  to  audition  before  a  regular  au- 
dience— and  she  was  a  smash. 

"There  was  a  family  conference  then," 
Janet  says.  "Dad  didn't  like  the  idea  of 
my  singing  with  a  band.  He  thought  I 
should  concentrate  on  serious  music. 
Mother  was  on  the  other  side.  She  thought 
there  was  too  much  sacrifice,  and  too 
many  years  of  waiting  for  success,  on  the 
serious  side.  I'd  say  it  was  she  who 
decided  me." 

She  became  the  band  vocalist  and,  when 
Kemp  opened  at  the  Ambassador  Hotel 
in  Los  Angeles,  he  was  featuring  Janet 
in  the  floor  show.  She  drew  the  atten- 
tion of  the  picture  studios,  Jaut.  turned 
down  all  screen  offers.  She  had  decided 
to  stay  with  the  band  for  at  least  another 
season.  When  the  band  moved  on  to 
San  Francisco,  Hal  Kemp  lost  his  life 
in  a  motor  accident.  Janet  returned  to 
Hollywood  and  was  tested  and  signed  to 
a  i.ong  contract  by  Columbia  Pictures. 
She  became  a  film  star  with  her  appear- 
ance in  "My  Sister  Eileen,"  co-starred 
with  Rosalind  Russell.  Janet  then  starred 
in  many  movies,  with  such  well-known 
actors  and  actresses  as  Gary  Grant,  Rita 
Hayworth,  Louis  Hayward  and  Red  Skel- 
ton.  In  1946,  she  made  a  picture  whose 
cast   included   Sid    Caesar. 

The  picture  was  "Tars  and  Spars"  and 
Sid,  Janet  recalls,  "like  most  of  the  others 
in  the  cast,  was  in  the  service.  I  remem- 
ber he  was  gangling  and  shy.  Everyone 
on  the  set  was  crazy  about  him  We  used 
to    coax   him   to   perform   during   lulls    in 


I 


shooting  the  picture.  He  had  a  great 
talent  even  then.  We  would  talk  about 
him  and  predict  that,  if  he  got  the  right 
breaks,  he'd  develop  into  a  great  enter- 
tainer.   -Obviously,  he  did." 

In  1948,  Janet  refused  to  sign  her  movie 
contract  when  it  came  up  for  renewal. 
She  had  tired  of  playing  pretty,  bland  in- 
genue roles.  Instead,  she  invited  the 
Blackburn  Twins  to  join  her  in  a  new 
act,  spent  $25,000  for  costumes,  material 
and  special  arrangements.  Then  they 
toured  the  top  night-club  circuits — and 
were  voted  the  Billboard  award  as  the 
number-one  act  of  1950.  Richard  Rodgers 
ar»d  Oscar  Hammerstein  II  caught  her  act 
at  the  Waldorf-Astoria,  and  persuaded 
her  to  take  the  Nellie  Forbush  role  in  the 
national  company  of  "South  Pacific". 
Since  then,  she  has  been  seen  on  stage 
and  television  in  a  variety  of  roles.  This 
past  spring,  she  returned  to  Hollywood 
to  make  the  RKO  movie,  "Public  Pigeon 
No.  1,"  with  Red  Skelton. 

It  was  also  this  past  spring  that  she 
made  another  important  decision  in  her 
career.  She  chose  between  joining  Sid 
Caesar  on  TV  or  accepting  the  lead  in  a 
new  Broadway  musical  this  fall.  Her  de- 
cision, of  course,  is  TV  history.  And  it 
will  be  a  memorable  fall  for  husband 
Nick,  too.  He  will  produce  his  first  Broad- 
way play,  F.  Hugh  Herbert's  "The  Best 
House  in  Naples,"  which  will  star  Mexi- 
can actress  Katy  Jurado. 

"We  consider  ourselves  pretty  lucky 
people,"  says  Nick.  "We  have  our  health 
and  our  work — and,  this  year,  since  we'll 
both  be  in  New  York,  we  should  see  a 
lot  more  of  each  other." 

They  moved  into  their  present  home  a 
few  months  after  leaving  "South  Pacific." 
They  moved  in  without  a  stick  of  furni- 
ture. Says  Janet,  "We  had  to  furnish 
from  a  teaspoon  on  up.  When  I  made 
Nick  his  first  meal  here — it  was  a  Penn- 
sylvania dish  of  sauerkraut,  pork  and 
wieners  with  dumplings  (and  the  dump- 
lings didn't  turn  out  right) — we  used  a 
trunk  for  a  table  and  sat  on  boxes.  It  took 
us  two  years  to  get  this  place  furnished." 

The  apartment  has  a  full  kitchen,  a  liv- 
ing room  and  bedroom.  The  bedroom  is 
to  the  left  of  the  foyer  and  is  dominated 
by  an  enormous,  seven-by-seven  bed 
covered  in  red  velvet.  The  headboard, 
also  in  red  velvet,  was  designed  by  Janet. 
A  piece  of  gold  scroll  hangs  above  the 
headboard,  in  sharp  contrast  to  the  char- 
coal walls.  Nick  has  suspended  a  large, 
white  Japanese  lantern  over  the  foot  of 
the  bed.  The  drapes,  from  ceiling  to  floor, 
are  white  with  a  Grecian-key  border. 
There  is  an  alcove  at  the  far  end  of  the 
room  that  holds  Janet's  vanity  and  serves 
as  a  dressing  room.  The  bathroom  has 
wallpaper  illustrated  with  Grecian  archi- 
tectural designs,  and  on  the  floor  there  is 
wall-to-wall  string  carpeting.  "Carpeting 
is  very  practical  here,"  Janet  says.  "You 
figure  a  tile  floor  has  to  be  scrubbed  two 
or  three  times  a  week.  All  you  have  to 
do  is  vacuum  this." 

"Our  living  room  is  six  rooms  in  one," 
Nick  says.  "We  have  here  a  den,  office, 
dining  area,  television,  music  and  rehears- 
al hall — as  well  as  the  living  room  itself." 
It  is  long  with  a  high  ceiling.  The  drapes 
are  of  Italian  silk  in  beige  and  charcoal. 
The  walls  are  pearl  gray,  and  the  carpet 
sand-colored.  The  den  part  of  the  room 
consists  of  a  big  corner  fireplace  with  a 
mirrored  mantel,  over  which  is  a  statue  of 
Alexander  the  Great.  Part-way  down  the 
room  is  a  desk,  set  at  right-angles  to  the 

•*•••••••••••••••••••••*•••*••••*•••••••••••••••••••••••••• 

NOW  EVEN  BETTER-INVEST  IN  U.S.  SAVINGS  BONDS 

••••••••••••••••••••••*••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 


wall.  This  has  served  as  Nick's  office. 
Beyond  the  desk  is  the  dining  area.  The 
dining  set  is  made  of  wrought  iron,  and 
the  chairs  are  covered  with  a  pink  melon 
fabric.  To  the  other  side  of  the  room  is  a 
television  set,  a  club-size  piano,  and  a 
filing  cabinet.  The  corner  was  a  problem 
to  set  up:  "We  must  have  a  filing  cabinet 
for  music  and  scripts — but,  of  course,  it 
looks  out  of  place." 

Nick  painted  the  piano  and  cabinet  and 
TV  set  white,  then  touched  them  off  with 
sprinklings  of  gold  paint.  Above  the 
piano  he  set  in  bookshelves  with  brass 
standards  and  shelving  of  white  glass.  The 
door  to  the  terrace  opens  off  this  corner. 
Besides  plants  and  trees,  the  Mayos  keep 
on  the  terrace  comfortable  summer  fur- 
niture and  a  charcoal  brazier  to  broil 
steaks.  On  summer  days,  they  bring  out 
a  circular,  twelve-foot  plastic  pool  for 
paddling.  The  terrace  is  actually  so  large 
that  part  has  been  fenced  off!  "We 
thought  we  could  use  all  that  extra  space 
for  overflows  at  parties — but  we  haven't 
yet  got  around  to  giving  a  big  party." 

The  Mayos  entertain  informally  and 
casually.  For  instance,  when  friends 
showed  up  on  a  hot  summer  evening,  they 
found  the  front  door  open — but  no  Mayos. 
They  called  and  were  answered  from  the 
terrace.  There  they  found  Janet  and 
Nick — in  swim  suits,  with  cold  drinks — 
immersed  in  their  pool.  "And  that's  where 
we  had  our  party,"  says  Janet.  "All  six  of 
us  dunking  in  the  circular  pool,  toe  to 
toe." 

During  cooler  weather,  they  spend  up 
to  fifteen  hours  a  week  watching  televi- 
sion. They  like  conversation  about  the 
theater,  and  there  is  an  authority  in  the 
home  to  settle  arguments.  Ethel  Sayles, 
whom  Janet  and  Nick  call  their  "house- 
mother," dates  her  theatrical  experience 
back  to  Ziegfeld.  Ethel  has  been  with 
Janet  since  "South  Pacific,"  and  takes 
over  most  of  the  household  chores — for 
Janet's  housework  is  limited  to  the  wee 
hours  of  the  morning. 

"This  comes  about  because  I'm  out 
most  of  the  day,"  Janet  explains.  "But 
when  night  falls  I  have  a  terrible  time 
unwinding.  At  two  or  three  in  the  morn- 
ing I'm  still  walking  and  walking,  read- 
ing and  reading.  That's  when  I  begin  to 
make  fudge,  clean  up  ashtrays,  or  put  my 
closet  in  order." 

As  noted  earlier,  in  private  life  you  will 
never  find  Janet  in  baggy  pants.  She  is  a 
comely,  chic  gal  whose  taste  in  clothes 
has  changed  considerably  since  her  debut 
with  Hal  Kemp.  "To  be  honest  about  it," 
she  notes,  "I  have  very  expensive  tastes. 
I  like  very  good  clothes,  very  simply  tai- 
lored but  very  feminine.  And  what  I  do 
buy  I  wear  three  times  as  long  as  an  ordi- 
nary dress,  so  I'm  not  a  spendthrift." 

Her  jewelry  seems  to  go  with  the  Venus 
hairdo.  She  is  particularly  proud  of  a 
diamond  and  pearl  bracelet  which  was  a 
gift  from  Rodgers  and  Hammerstein.  Nick 
gave  her  earrings  to  match  the  bracelet- — 
on  his  birthday.  "Janet  always  gives  me 
such  wonderful  things,"  he  explains,  "that 
I  don't  feel  right  about  opening  a  package 
myself  unless  she  has  one  to  open,  too." 

"We  don't  believe  in  gifts  for  just  an- 
niversaries and  birthdays,"  says  Janet. 
"We  give  presents  because  it's  Wednes- 
day, or  because  the  sun's  shining — or  be- 
cause it  isn't."  It  can  be  expected  that 
the  Mayos  will  have  much  occasion  for 
real  celebration  this  year,  when  the  view- 
ing public  has  had  a  good  chance  to  ap- 
praise Janet  Blair  as  Sid  Caesar's  new 
"wife"  on  television! 


TOO  HIT 

fOR  LOUE? 


REDUCE— THIS  WAY 


Men  don't  look  twice  at  fat  women.  But 
if  you  are  overweight,  or  want  to  get 
rid  of  large  hips,  legs  or  ankles — take 
a  tip  from  Dr.  Munro. 

Dr.  Munro  has  perfected  a  simple  re- 
ducing diet  that  really  takes  off  excess 
weight — without  depleting   your   energy. 

And  the  remarkable  part  of  this  Slen- 
derizing Diet  is  that  you  don't  have  to 
count  calories.  In  fact,  you  better  forget 
all  you  ever  knew  about  old-fashioned 
reducing  diets  for  this  is  today's  new 
wonder  diet. 


EAT 


Roast    Beef.    Chops,    Chickens, 
Baked    Custard,    Pudding,   etc. 


Dr.  Munro's  Slenderizing  Diet  is  re- 
markable in  many  ways.  It  is  remarkable 
because  you  don't  have  to  eat  a  lot  of 
salads — in  fact,  you  stay  away  from  them! 
But  you  do  eat  real  energy-producing 
foods,  such  as  roasts,  turkey,  fish,  eggs, 
clams,  and  lots  of  other  good  foods.  And 
you  can  eat  yummy  desserts,  too!  Yes, 
you  are  supposed  to  eat  such  desserts  as 
mocha  pudding,  Spanish  cream,  baked 
custard,  vanilla  ice-cream.  Naturally,  you 
must  prepare  these  dishes  according  to 
the  instructions  set  forth  by  Dr.  Munro. 
Don't  you  lose  out  on  the  good  things 
in  life.  Get  your  copy  of  Dr.  Munro's 
Slenderizing  Diet — at  once.  Only  $2.50 
at  all  bookstores,  or  use  coupon  below. 

MAIL  COUPON  TODAY 


BARTHOLOMEW   HOUSE,   INC.Dept.  WG-II56 
205  E.  42nd  St.,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 

Send    me    postpaid,    a    copy    of    SLENDER- 
IZING FOR  NEW  BEAUTY.  I  enclose  82.50. 


NAME 

P. ease    Print 

STREET 


CITY STATE. 


88 


■^inkleMie 


THE  GIFT  TIE  THAT  "CURLS" 

GET  THIS  "HOW-TO-DO-IT"  BOOKLET 

Tells  you  how  to  tie  dozens    j 
of bowsandspecialeffects    I 

Buy  the  King-Size  Spool  t 
and  make  Bows  for  every 
occasion 


a  r  ',  e  *  "W*- — — i 

CRINKLE-TIE    ~~*™mmP*^         T-116 
2300  Logan  Blvd.,  Chicago  47,  III. 

Send  me  booklet  on  tying  beautiful  bows.     I 
I  enclose  1 0f  in  coin  for  booklet. 

Nome I 


A  Guy  Like  Gene 


Address- 
I    City 


_Zone 


-Stote- 


*!•] 


WALLET 

SIZE 
PHOTOS 


from  favorite  pictures,  weddings,  gradu- 
ations, babies,  classmates,  pets,  etc. 
Send  $1  with  picture.  Your  original  will 
be  returned  with  25  beautiful  prints 
on  finest  double  weight  portrait  paper. 
Money  back  guarantee.   Add  10*  P.P. 

FREE!  I  PHOTO  ENCASED  IN  PLASTIC 

ROXANNE  STUDIOS— Box  138.  Dept.  576 

Wall   St.  Sta..   New  York  5,    N.   Y. 

FALSE  TEETH 

KLUTCH  holds  them  tighter 

KLUTCH  forms  a  comfort  cushion;  holds  dental  plates 
so  much  firmer  and  snugger  that  one  can  eat  and  talk 
with  greater  comfort  and  security;  in  many  cases  al- 
most as  well  as  with  natural  teeth.  Klutch  lessens  the 
constant  fear  of  a  dropping,  rocking,  chafing  plate.  35c 
and_  60c  at  druggists.  If  your  druggist  hasn't  it, 
don't  waste  money  on  substitutes,  but  send  us  10c 
and  we  will  mail  you  a  generous  trial  box. 

KLUTCH  CO..  Dept.  686-K.  ELM  IRA.  N.  Y. 


f^«Mp',N£GcEPLANTER  and  SWANS 


ALL 
For  Only 


50c 


3-Piece   Salt   and   Pepper   Set 

Complete  with  Colorful  Floral  Display 

Bargain — to  get  new  customers!  The  two 
lovely  swans  (one  pours  salt,  the  other 
pepper)  stretch  their  long  graceful  necks  as 
if  drinking  from  the  charming  Flower  Ring. 
An  enchanting,  imported  creation  that's  so  pretty  as  a  table 
centerpiece  or  on  mantel,  end-table,  etc.  Artistically  made 
of  hand-decorated,  gleaming  white  ceramic.  Comes  com- 
plete with  a  beautiful  spray  of  lovely,  multi-colored  simu- 
lated flowers.  If  you  desire,  remove  them  from  Planter, 
and  use  it  for  serving  candy,  nuts,  cigarettes,  etc. 
The  Center  of  Attraction!  A  wonderful  conversation 
piece  you'll  cherish  for  years.  Satisfaction  guaranteed  or 
money  back.  Not  more  than  2  Sets  to  a  person  at  this  low 
price.  Add  onlv  20c  to  each  Set  ordered  for  postage  and 
handling.     No  C.O.n.'s  please. 

DOBBS  PRODUCTS  CO.,  1255  S.Wabash,  Dept.  255.  Chicago  5.  III. 


(Continued  from  page  42) 
Schrafft's.  "I  wake  up  slow,"  he  says, 
"and  as  I  look  out  the  window  onto  the 
concrete  court,  I  think  I  must  be  nuts 
to  be  sleeping  in  a  one-room  apartment 
when  I  could  be  home  with  my  family 
and  trees." 

Gene  really  lives  in  a  ten-room,  Dutch 
Colonial  house  on  a  shaded  street  in 
Mamaroneck.  The  house  is  white,  with 
turquoise  shutters.  It  is  thirty  years  old 
and  has  belonged  to  the  Rayburns  for 
five.  In  the  front  yard  there  are  fine  old 
silver  maples.  In  back  of  the  house  are 
two  giants,  a  sixty -foot  sassafras  and  an 
eighty-five-foot  pine.  Azaleas  and  rhodo- 
dendron and  laurel  frame  the  house. 
There  are  lilac  bushes  along  the  drive- 
way which  leads  into  a  two-car,  three- 
bicycle  garage.  The  Rayburns  are  an  in- 
genious family.  They  ride  bicycles,  fly 
airnlanes,  renovate  homes,  paint  china, 
and  study  piano,  voice  and  guitar.  Some 
of  these  things  they  do  separately;  some 
they  do  as  a  family.  Gene  and  Helen  have 
made  a  good  thing  of  their  marriage. 
They  fell  in  love  when  Gene  was  a  page 
boy  at  NBC  and  was  making  $15  a  week. 
Helen  Ticknor,  a  very  pretty  brownette, 
was  then  a  model. 

She  was  a  Texas  beauty,  even  though 
she  was  born  in  Calgary,  Canada,  and 
raised  in  Gary,  Indiana — her  family  moved 
to  Texas  when  she  was  in  her  teens.  She 
had  been  in  New  York  a  year  when  she 
met  Gene.  Helen  recalls:  "I  had  a  friend 
at  NBC — matter  of  fact,  he  was  Gene's 
boss.  I  went  by  to  pick  up  some  tickets 
for  a  Toscanini  concert.  I  didn't  even 
meet  Gene." 

Gene,  an  innocent  onlooker,  was  side- 
swiped  by  her  eyelashes  and  asked  his 
boss  to  get  him  a  date.  It  was  set  up, 
and  then  Gene  dated  her  for  thirty  times 
in  a  row.  The  second  month  of  dating, 
they  began  to  shop  for  furniture — at 
which  point,  Helen  observed.  "You  haven't 
asked  me  to  marry  you  yet."  He  did,  and 
she  accepted  immediately.  "It  was  practi- 
cally love  at  first  sight,"  she  says.  "His 
sense  of  humor  intrigued  me.  He  was  and 
is  gay  and  great  fun.  And  then  there 
was  that  gentleness  of  his." 

Ihree  months  aflar  they  met,  January 
1,  1940,  they  were  married  at  The  Little 
Church  Around  the  Corner,  the  favorite 
church  of  many  New  York  actors  and 
actresses.  Gene  was  earning  $25  a  week. 
It  wasn't  much  money,  but  Gene  knew 
how  to  get  by.  He  had  been  on  his  own 
in  New  York  for  three  years. 

Gene  was  born  December  22,  1917,  in 
Christopher,  Illinois.  He  grew  up  in  Chi- 
cago. His  father  died  when  he  was  just 
eight  months  old.  His  mother  remarried 
two  years  later.  His  stepfather  was  a 
machinist.  "No  one  in  the  family  had 
anything  to  do  with  show  business,"  Gene 
recalls,  "but  I  had  a  yen  for  the  theater. 
I  was  in  all  school  plays  from  kinder- 
garten on.  I  was  Robin  Hood,  George 
Washington — and  I  got  rave  notices  as  Mr. 
Stubbs  in  'Mrs.  Wiggs  of  the  Cabbage 
Patch.' " 

The  weird  Rayburn  mishaps  began 
when  Gene  was  four  years  old.  A  car 
ran  right  across  his  stomach.  He  was  in 
the  hospital  for  two  days  and  was  then 
discharged.  Another  typical  Gene  Ray- 
burn  incident  occurred  when  he  starred 
as  Robin  Hood.  He  had  to  shoot  an  arrow 
into  the  air.  But  he  aimed  low.  One 
version  has  it  that  he  hit  a  teacher,  who 
pitched  forward  and  knocked  over  a  bot- 
tle of  hair  lotion.  Another  version,  rather 
on  the  tame  side,  goes  that  he  put  the 
arrow  through  a  bass  drum.    History  may 


decide    among    these    divergent    rumors. 

At  home,  Gene  heard  his  mother  sing 
as  she  cooked.  That's  where  he  developed 
a  liking  for  both  operatic  music  and 
chicken  paprika.  From  his  stepfather,  he 
learned  to  work  with  tools.  He  had  a 
younger  stepbrother  and  stepsister  and 
so,  as  the  oldest  child,  Gene  developed  a 
sense  of  responsibility. 

In  Lindbloom  High  School,  though  he 
also  learned  to  take  a  car  apart,  his  chief 
pursuit  was  dramatics — he  wanted  to  go 
on  to  a  university  which  had  a  good 
dramatic  school,  but  he  had  no  money. 
He  had  a  fine  reputation  in  high  school 
and  his  popularity  won  him  the  class 
presidency.  He  got  a  part-scholarship  to 
Knox  College  in  Galesburg,  and  he  was 
there  briefly.  He  registered  late  and  was 
scheduled  into  some  advanced  courses. 
This,  along  with  the  necessity  of  finding 
jobs  to  pay  for  his  room  and  board  and 
other  necessities,  just  about  drove  him 
into  the  ground.  He  passed  all  his  sub- 
jects, but  lost  his  part- scholarship. 

At  eighteen,  on  his  own,  he  went  to 
New  York  to  become  an  actor.  Just  last 
February,  Gene  Rayburn  starred  in  a 
Robert  Montgomery  Presents  teleplay, 
"The  Man  Who  Vanished."  He  received 
good  reviews — so,  the  following  week, 
when  he  was  toastmaster  at  his  high- 
school  reunion,  he  led  off  by  saying, 
"Twenty  years  ago,  I  went  down  to  New 
York  to  get  a  job  as  an  actor.  Last  week, 
I  got  it." 

But,  twenty  years  ago,  it  was  consid- 
ered quite  an  achievement  for  a  young- 
ster to  get  a  job  as  page  boy  at  NBC.  It 
was  an  auspicious  beginning  for  many 
careers.  Others  serving  at  the  same  time 
with  Gene  were  Dave  Garroway  and  Earl 
Wrightson — but  none  was  more  memor- 
able than  Gene.  He  achieved  many  "first 
and  onlys."  Gene  is  the  first  and  only 
person  to  go  swimming  in  the  Rockefeller 
Plaza  fountain.  In  his  shorts.  And  under 
the  shadow  of  the  statue  of  Prometheus, 
a  Greek  Titan  without  shorts.  It  happened 
early  on  a  summer  morning:  "We  had 
been  celebrating.  We  had  been  celebrat- 
ing payday.  As  I  said,  we  got  $15  a  week, 
and  got  paid  every  two  weeks.  So,  when 
payday  came,  it  was  really  a  cause  to 
celebrate.  Anyway,  we  were  up  most  of 
the  night.  Youth,  you  know.  And  I  didn't 
have  time  to  go  back  to  my  apartment 
for  a  shower.  There  was  the  pool  of 
water.  No  one  using  it.  No  one  around. 
It  was  perfectly  logical,  so  I  stepped  in 
and  went  for  a  swim." 

He  was  pulled  out  by  a  guard,  but  the 
guard  didn't  report  him.  This  is  one  of 
Gene's  fortunate  characteristics:  His  charm 
is  such  that  seldom  does  anyone  take 
offense  at  his  outrageous  stunts. 

About  the  time  Gene  married  Helen,  he 
graduated  into  an  announcing  job  with 
WGNY  in  Newburgh,  New  York.  A  year 
and  a  half  later,  he  went  to  WITH  in 
Baltimore  and  then  to  WFIL  in  Phila- 
delphia, stealthily  working  his  way  back 
to  Manhattan.  "We  had  fun  in  those  days. 
Never  much  money,  but  lots  of  fun.  We 
ate  whatever  was  on  sale.  If  pork  were  on 
sale,  we  bought  enough  pork  for  a  month. 
If  it  were  coffee,  we  drank  coffee." 

Gene  and  Helen  were  doing-it-them- 
selves  when  many  people  still  thought 
nuts  and  bolts  were  a  vaudeville  team. 
When  their  car  needed  overhauling,  Gene 
decided  he  would  show  Helen  how  to 
grind  the  valves  yourself.  And  he  almost 
did.  He  got  the  car  apart,  then  discovered 
he  didn't  have  the  tools  to  put  it  back 
together.  A  garage  had  to  pick  up  the  car, 
piece   by   piece,  and   take   it  back  to   the 


service   station   for   professional  assembly. 

Gene  had  arrived  at  WNEW  in  New 
York  when  his  daughter  was  born.  That 
was  October  5,  1942.  Shortly  after,  he 
decided  to  enlist  in  the  air  cadets.  He 
sold  his  furniture,  car,  bicycle,  books,  but 
decided  to  keep  his  wife  and  infant. 
Helen,  for  the  course  of  the  war,  chose 
to  live  with  her  mother  in  San  Antonio. 
Gene  went  into  the  Air  Force,  as  he  re- 
calls, "with  a  radio  slouch — my  feet 
pointed  out  and  my  nose  pointed  down. 
I  was  a  perfect  example  of  un-military 
posture." 

At  graduation  from  cadet  training,  his 
wife  and  an  old  friend,  Bill  Patterson, 
were  on  hand.  They  have  never  forgotten 
the  ceremony.  Some  of  the  cadets  were 
graduated  with  special  honors  in  various 
courses — but  Gene  was  cited  for  "best 
military  record."  In  the  graduation  audi- 
ence, two  people  exploded  with  laughter. 
They  were,  of  course,  Gene's  wife  and 
friend.  He  graduated  a  bombardier-navi- 
gator. He  was  at  B-29  Gunnery  School, 
preparing  for  overseas  assignment,  when 
the  Japanese  got  word  that  Rayburn  was 
coming  and  gave  up.  , 

As  a  civilian  again — and  again  with  the 
best  radio  slouch — Gene  became  quite 
famous  in  New  York.  As  host  on  an 
early-morning  show,  his  off-beat  humor 
had  New  Yorkers  choking  on  their  coffee. 
Jack  Lescoulie  worked  as  his  partner  on 
WNEW.  "It  was  a  ball,"  Jack  recalls. 
"Gene,  like  any  really  funny  man,  is  un- 
predictable. And  a  screwball.  I  remem- 
ber one  morning  he  came  in,  complained 
of  being  tired,  and  lay  down  on  the  floor. 
He  refused  to  get  up.  For  two  hours,  he 
did  the  show  from  a  prone  position." 
Subsequently,  Lescoulie  left  WNEW.  Gene 
took  on  a  new  partner  and  continued 
with  The  Rayburn  And  Finch  Show. 

When  Gene  went  to  WRCA,  NBC's  flag- 
ship station,  to  do  The  Gene  Rayburn 
Show,  three  Scotch  bagpipers  marched 
around  Rockefeller  Center  in  his  honor 
and  the  NBC  page  staff  turned  out  in 
military  formation  to  welcome  him  back. 

During  these  years,  Gene  lived  in  Man- 
hattan. He  prefers  Manhattan  to  any 
other  place  in  the  world  and  would  prefer 
to  live  there.  He  moved  to  the  country 
mainly  for  the  sake  of  his  daughter  Lynn: 
"Lynn  had  been  in  a  half-dozen  different 
schools,  and  seldom  did  any  of  her  class- 
mates live  within  a  mile  of  us.  It  was  a 
question  of  finding  a  home  where  she 
could  settle  down  for  a  while." 

Lynn  is  bright,  cheerful,  and  tall  for 
her  age.  She  stands  five-seven.  She  takes 
after  both  her  father  and  mother,  per- 
sonality-wise, for  Helen  Rayburn  not  only 
appreciates  Gene's  humor  but  can  dish 
it  out,  too.  During  a  summer  vacation  at 
Nantucket,  the  Rayburns  and  Burr  Till- 
strom  were  neighbors.  Helen  and  Till- 
strom  clowned  around  with  the  voices, 
and  Helen  came  up  with  a  funny  charac- 
ter by  the  name  of  Polly  Bradford.  That 
fall,  she  came  on  Gene's  show  once  a  week 
to  do  the  part. 

"During  those  years,  I  got  up  at  four 
A.M.,"  Gene  says.  "The  great  thing  about 
Helen  was  that  she  got  up  with  me." 
Helen  says  simply,  "I  thought  we  wouldn't 
have  any  life  together  unless  we  kept  the 
same  hours.  I'll  bet  I  was  the  only  woman 
in  New  York  who  had  all  her  housework 
finished  by  seven  in  the  morning." 

Helen  is  very  interested  in  art.  She 
studies  textiles  and  China  painting.  She 
has  done  much  of  the  decorating  of  her 
home,  although  she  and  Gene  agree  on  a 
love  of  old  furniture  and  fine  woods.  She 
is  particularly  fond  of  cheerful  colors, 
and  uses  a  lot  of  yellow.  The  walls  of  the 
living  room  and  sunroom  are  lemon-yel- 
low. The  living  room  runs  the  full  length 
of  the  house.   It  is  furnished  like  a  French 


country  house — or  in  "Rayburn  Provencal." 
There  are  some  very  fine  old  pieces,  in- 
cluding a  three-tier  18th-century  English 
bookcase.  There  is  a  fireplace  in  one  wall 
and  the  room  itself  is  handsome,  but  the 
Rayburns  spend  most  of  their  time  on 
the  sun  porch,  which  is  glassed-in  for 
year-around  use.  Here  is  a  piano.  Both 
Lynn  and  Helen  take  lessons.  The  piano 
is  placed  in  the  middle  of  the  sunroom 
against  a  divider  which  Gene  made.  The 
divider  runs  ceiling-high,  with  open 
shelves.  The  base  is  a  huge  cabinet  hold- 
ing their  television  and  phonograph  and 
radio. 

v*ene  has  contributed  both  labor  and  skill 
to  the  task  of  home  decoration.  He  is 
a  very  good  carpenter.  There  was  a 
"corny  Spanish"  archway  leading  into  the 
living  room,  but  Gene  removed  it  and 
squared  it  off.  He  has  lathe-turned  ornate 
rungs  to  replace  broken  rungs  on  their 
fine  dining  chairs.  The  furniture  in  the 
dining  room  is  Jacobean. 

Behind  the  dining  room  is  an  extra- 
large  kitchen.  When  the  Rayburns  first 
married,  Gene  was  the  better  cook,  but 
now  Helen  has  surpassed  him.  He  has  two 
favorite  dishes,  kidney  stew  and  devil's- 
food  cake.  But,  generally,  he  doesn't  pay 
too  much  attention  to  the  table.  He  ex- 
plains, "I'm  a  firm  believer  that  people 
eat  too  much.    I  don't  overdo  it." 

Their  master  bedroom  is  large  and 
serves  as  a  combination  living-bedroom. 
There  is  a  TV  receiver  there  and  a  couple 
of  chairs  for  reading.  The  chairs  are 
covered  in  bright  yellow  and  the  walls 
are  pale  green.  The  chests,  high  and  low, 
and  the  side  tables  are  in  fruit  wood. 
Daughter  Lynn's  room,  down  the  hall,  is 
in  "Rayburn  Do-It- Yourself."  Gene  built 
in  a  wall-to-wall  vanity  complete  with 
drawers,  and  a  special  cabinet-shelf  near 
Lynn's  bed.  She  has  her  own  desk  and  a 
huge  bulletin  board.  There  is  pink- 
striped  wallpaper.  Many  of  Lynn's  own 
drawings  have  been  framed  and  hung. 
Among  her  souvenirs,  on  her  vanity  table, 
is  a  typical  fan  picture  of  Gene  which  he 
autographed  to  her  in  fun  and  which  she 
obviously  treasures. 

Lynn  and  Helen  and  Gene  enjoy  being 
together.  They  bicycle  and  swim  together 
in  the  summer.  They  ski  together — al- 
though Helen  describes  herself  as  "the 
Queen  of  the  Lower  Slopes."  Both  Gene 
and  Helen  can  fly  a  plane,  and  Lynn 
hopes  to  do  so.  The  Rayburns  don't  deny 
that  they  have  a  lot  of  fun,  but  they  have 
their  troubles,  too.  Gene  was  very  ill 
with  hepatitis  for  three  months  last  year. 
For  a  man  whose  motor  is  usually  racing, 
the  illness  was  murder.  That  was  when 
his  fans  tried  to  repay  him  for  the  laughs 
he  had  given  them.  He  got  thousands  of 
get-well  cards  and  gifts.  One  admirer 
even  sent  him  a  live  snake  for  a  laugh. 
(And  Gene  laughed.)  Gene  spent  two- 
and-a-half  of  the  three  months  in  his  own 
bedroom.  He  figures  Helen  must  have 
brought  up  a  thousand  trays  to  him.  He 
continued  to  do  his  weather  forecast  on 
Tonight  by  radio  "remote,"  while  a  couple 
of  show  girls  chalked  up  the  map  in  the 
studio. 

This  past  Spring,  Helen  went  to  the 
hospital  for  a  minor  operation.  Gene 
visited  her  every  day  for  several  hours 
and,  before  she  got  home,  arranged  to 
have  new  drapes  hung  in  the  living  room 
and  arranged  bouquets  of  flowers  all  over 
the  house.  "I'm  Gene's  best  fan,"  says 
Helen.  "I  think  he's  wonderful.  He's  im- 
maculately honest.  His  aims  are  high.  He 
reveres  a  greatness  of  spirit  in  people." 
She  concludes,  "The  public  labels  show 
business  as  'glamorous,'  but  it's  lonely, 
too.  I  would  be  pretty  desperate — if  I 
weren't  married  to  a  guy  like  Gene." 


"I  found 

the  secret  to 

a  happy  marriage!" 


says  Mrs.  David  Rosen  who  now 
uses  ZONITE  to  douche! 

SAFE!  Not  only  women  about-to-be- 
married,  but  also  many  married  women 
wonder  about  douching  for  feminine  hy- 
giene. Mrs.  Rosen  was  married  a  couple  of 
years  before  she  found  out  how  important 
it  was  to  follow  the  proper  method  of 
douching  with  a  fountain  syringe,  using 
an  effective  yet  safe  s6lution— like  zonite. 
EFFECTIVE!  No  other  type  liquid  antiseptic- 
germicide  for  the  douche  of  all  those  tested 
is  so  powerfully  effective  yet  so  safe  to  body 
tissues  as  zonite. 

HEALTHFUL !  zonite  completely  deodorizes, 
promptly  washes  away  germs  and  odor- 
causing  waste  substances.  A  nurse  once 
advised  Mrs.  Rosen  that  if  any  abnormal 
condition  exists,  she  should  see  her  doctor. 
She  said  he  would  probably  recommend 
that  she  continue  to  use  zonite. 
DAINTY!  You,  too,  can  be  one  of  the  mod- 
ern women  who  welcome  the  "peace  of 
mind"  and  daintiness  that  zonite  gives 
them  after  monthly  periods  and  other 
times.  You  can  use  zonite  as  directed,  as 
often  as  needed,  without  the  slightest  risk 
of  injury.  Costs  only  pennies  per  douche. 


use 


V  Guaranteed  by  8 
i  Good  Housekeeping 


ZONITE 

so  safe  yet 
so  effective ! 


POEMS 


WANTED 


For  musical  setting  .   .   .  Send 

your     Poems     todav     for     FREE 

EXAMINATION:      Any     subject.      Immediate     consideration. 

CROWN  MUSIC  CO.,  1476-L  Broadway,  New  York  36,  N.Y. 

WAKE  UP 
RARIN'  TO  GO 

Without  Nagging  Backache 

Now !  You  can  get  the  fast  relief  you  need  from 
nagging  backache,  headache  and  muscular  aches 
and  pains  that  often  cause  restless  nights  and  mis- 
erable tired-out  feelings.  When  these  discomforts 
come  on  with  over-exertion  or  stress  and  strain — 
you  want  relief— want  it  fast !  Another  disturbance 
may  be  mild  bladder  irritation  following  wrong 
food  and  drink  — often  setting  up  a  restless  un- 
comfortable feeling. 

For  quick  relief  get  Doan's  Pills.  They  work  fast 
in  3  separate  ways :  1.  by  speedy  pain-relieving  ac- 
tion to  ease  torment  of  nagging  backache,  head- 
aches, muscular  aches  and  pains.  2.  by  their  sooth- 
ing effect  on  bladder  irritation.  3.  by  their  mild  T 
diuretic  action  tending  to  increase  output  of  the  15  y 
miles  of  kidney  tubes.  „ 

Find  out  how  quickly  this  3-way  medicine  goes  to 
work.  Enjoy  a  good  night's  sleep  and  the  same  happy 
relief  millions  have  for  over  60  years.  Ask  for  new, 
large  size  and  save  money.  Get  Doan's  Pills  today  ! 

89 


Be  Your  Own 
MUSIC  Teacher 

PLAY  ANY  INSTRUMENT 

LEARN  AT  HOME  THIS  QUICK  MONEY-SAVING  WAY 

Simple  as  A-B-C.  Your  lessons  consist  of  real  selections, 
instead  of  tiresome  exercises.  You  read  real  notes— no 
"numbers'*  or  trick  music.  Some  of  our  900,000  students 
are  band  LEADERS.  Everything  is  in  print  and  pictures. 
First  you  are  told  what  to  do.  Then  a  picture  shows  you 
how.  Then  you  play  it  yourself  and  hear  how  it  sounds. 
Soon  «ou  are  playing  your  favorite  music. 

STOP  CHEATING  YOURSELF  OF  THESE  JOYS! 

Popularity!  New  friends.  Gay  parties.  Good  times. 
Career.  Extra  Money.  Understand,  appreciate  and  converse 
about  music.    Learn  lives  and  compositions   of   modern  and 

treat  masters  .   .   .  Relax!   Banish  worries  and  frustrations, 
atisfy  self-expression,  creative  urge.  Gain  self-confidence. 
Mail    coupon    for    Free    36-page    illus- 
trated   book.      Mention    your    favorite    in- 
strument.    U.     S.     SCHOOL     OF     MUSIC. 
Studio  2011,  Port  Washington,  New  York 

F"67" sT sThO^L~Of"  MUs!c7"studio~  20lT" " 
j     Port    Washington,    N.    Y. 

I    Please  send   me  your  FREE    36-page   illustrated  book. 
I    I  would  like  to  play   (Name   Instrument). 


FREE 
BOOKLET 


Have  you 
Instrument Instrument?.. 


I 

L± 


(Print  Name) 


I 


High  School  Course 

at  Home 


Finish  in  2  Years 


I  Go  aB  rapidly  as  your  time  and  abilities  permit.  Equivalent  to  reei- 
Ident  school  work — prepares  for  college  entrance  exams.  Standard 
I  H.  S.  texts  supplied.  Diploma  awarded.  Credit  for  H.  S.  subjects 
(completed.  Single  subjects  if  desired.  Ask  for  Free  Bulletin. 

American  School,  Dept.  H853.  Drexel  at  58th,  Chicago  37 


4  How  to  Make  Money  with 
'sz^l   Simple  Cartoons'' 


Simply  address 


ARTOONISTS'  EXCHANGE 
Dept.  591 1  Pleasant  Hill.  Ohio 


^ENLARGEMENT 

t?  o/you/*  7-auofffe  Photo 


FROM  FAMOUS  HOLLYWOOD  FILMSTUDIOS 

Just  to  get  acquainted,  we  will 
make  you  a  beautiful  5x7  black 
Is;  and  white  enlargement  of  any 
l\>  snapshot,  photo  or  negative.  Also 
be  sure  to  include  color  of  hair, 
^  eyes  and  clothing,  and  get  our 
JK  Air  Mail  Bargain  Offer  for  hav- 
Sj  ing  your  enlargement  beautifully 
^!W/iilllVVlVv  hand-colored  in  oil  and  mounted 
in  a  handsome  frame.  Limit  2  to  a  customer. 
Please  enclose  10c  to  cover  cost  of  handling  and 
mailing  each  enlargement.  Original  returned.  We 
will  pay  $100.00  for  children's  or  adults  pictures 
used  in  our  advertising.  Act  NOW! 

Offer  limited  to  U.S.A.  only 

HOLLYWOOD  FILM  STUDIOS.  Dept.  F-287 

7021    Santa   Monica   Blvd.,    Hollywood   38,   Calif. 

IT'S  GREAT  TO  CLEAR  YOUR  SKIN 

PSORIASIS 

—the  ugly  scaly  skin  trouble 


MAKE  THE  ONE 

SPOT 

'    TEST. 


^  ^DERMOIL 


T 
V 
R 

90 


Enjoy  the  thrill  of  a  smooth 
clear  skin!  DERMOIL 
formula  used  by  many  doctors.  Amazing 
results  reported  for  over  22  years!  No 
matter  how  long  you  have  suffered,  write     l'.s°> 
for  Free  Book  on  Psoriasis  with  "Before 
and  After"   photos  of  results,   and 
SEND  10c  for  generous  trial  bottle. 
Satisfaction  in  2  weeks  or  money 
back.  Sold  by  all  Druggists. 

LAKE    LABORATORIES,   Dept.  2504 

Box  3925  Strathmoor  Station.  Detroit  27,  Mich. 


Seta/tOfJor 

TRIAL 

SIZE. 


New  Patterns 
for  You 


9072 — Step  into  this  new  fall  fashion — see 
how  its  slim,  trim  lines  whisk  the  inches 
away.  So  becoming  to  the  shorter,  fuller 
figure.  Half  Sizes  141/4-241/2-  Size  16%  takes 
3%  yards  39-inch  fabric.  State  size.  35$ 

4616 — Favorite  step-in  styling,  flattering 
"princess"  silhouette — it's  sure  to  be  the 
star  of  your  new-season  wardrobe.  Misses' 
Sizes  12-20;  40.  Size  16  takes  4%  yards  39- 
inch  fabric.  State  size.  35$ 

4880— Make  this  handy  apron  to  keep  you 
neat  and  pretty  on  kitchen  duty.  Misses' 
Sizes    Small    (10,    12);    Medium    (14,    16); 

Large  (18,  20).  All  sizes,  1%  yards  39-inch 
fabric.  State  size.  35$ 


SIZES 
S— 10— 12 
M— 14— 16 
L— 18-20 


Send  thirty-five  cents  (in  coins)  for  each  pattern  to:  TV  Radio  Mirror,  Pattern  Depart- 
ment, P.O.  Box  137,  Old  Chelsea  Station,  New  York  11,  New  York.  Add  five  cents  for 
each    pattern    for    first-class    mailing.    Be    sure    to     specify    pattern    number    and     size. 


The  Spirit  of  Romance 


(Continued  from  -page  35) 
past  few  years.    Nina  has  helped  greatly." 

Mrs.  Lipton  is  the  former  Nina  Foch — 
•and  still  Nina  Foch,  the  actress.  When 
she  catches  Jim  disappearing,  she  laughs 
him  right  out  of  it.  He  says,  "I  have  an 
insincere  smile  that  I  use  when  I'm  lost — 
you  know  I'm  thinking  about  something 
else.  Maybe  Nina  says  something  and  I 
give  her  this  smile.  Well,  she  knows  what 
it  means  and  she  mimics  me.  And  she 
won't  quit.  I  gave  up  smoking  for  gum- 
chewing  and,  when  I  get  lost,  I  get  to 
chewing  pretty  hard — and  she  mimics  this, 
too.  She  keeps  it  up  for  ten  minutes  or 
more.  Until  she  gets  me  laughing.  And 
then  she  mimics  my  laugh!" 

The  Liptons  have  been  married  since 
June  12,  1954,  and  they  have  a  good  mar- 
riage. Both  are  artists  and  individualists, 
but  they  make  a  successful  go  of  their 
marriage.  "Nina  has  her  day,  too,"  Jim 
notes.  "She  doesn't  get  lost  as  I  do,  but 
she  can  blow  up  like  a  summer  storm. 
She  can  have  an  emotional  explosion 
which  stuns  me — and  then,  a  minute  later, 
be  as  happy  as  a  lark.  Of  course,  I'm 
in  favor  of  the  explosion.  Nina  was  too 
shy  when  we  first  married.  She  gave  in 
too  easily.  I  was  always  saying,  'Now 
are  you  sure  you  want  to  go  there?'" 

Jim  puts  as  much  thought  into  his 
marriage  as  he  does  into  his  career.  And 
most  of  the  time  his  motor  is  running. 
He  usually  has  a  half-dozen  projects  go- 
ing. During  the  past  year,  he  continued 
his  studies,  finished  an  original  play, 
adapted  a  Moliere  play  and  then  directed 
it.  He's  been  Dick  Grant  in  both  the 
radio  and  TV  versions  of  The  Guiding 
Light.  Nina  also  leads  a  hectic  life.  "Some- 
times we  don't  see  each  other  to  talk  to 
until  weekends,"  Jim  says  ruefully.  "Or 
we  may  meet  at  a  class  in  the  evening 
and  say  'good  morning'  for  the  first  time." 

Jim's  schedule  is  a  full  one.  He  is  at  the 
TV  studio  at  8:45  A.M.  for  The  Guiding 
Light  rehearsals.  The  show  goes  on  at 
12:45.  He's  off  the  air  at  one,  of  course. 
But,  until  just  recently,  there  was  then  a 
mad  dash  to  rehearse  and  broadcast  the 
radio  version  of  The  Guiding  Light.  At 
this  writing,  a  good  part  of  his  afternoon 
is  still  devoted  to  TV  rehearsals  for  the 
next  day's  show.  In  the  evenings,  there 
are  voice  lessons  with  Arthur  Lessac, 
fencing  lessons,  ballet,  gymnastics,  and 
modern  dance.  He  will  probably  run 
into  Nina  at  the  ballet  class,  or  at  11:30 
P.M.  in  Harold  Clurman's  acting  workshop. 
They  are  at  Clurman's  until  two  in  the 
morning.  It  makes  for  a  frenetic  life,  but 
things  are  accomplished — and  the  mar- 
riage works. 

"I  figure  a  good  marriage  has  two  pos- 
sibilities," he  says.  "There  is  one  in 
which  one  person,  usually  the  man,  calls 
all  the  turns  and  the  wife  keeps  up  the 
home.  Or  there  is  our  kind,  where  we 
are  making  a  continual  and  conscious  effort 
to  live  equally  and  share  the  burdens. 
What  I  mean  is:  Whoever  gets  out  of 
bed  last  in  the  morning  makes  it.  At 
dinner  time,  we  work  together  in  the 
kitchen,  eat  and  clean  up  together." 

They  have  been  living  in  a  two-and- 
a-half-room  apartment  at  Seventy-second 
Street  and  Park  Avenue.  Any  way  you 
look  at  it,  Park  Avenue  is  a  far  cry  from 
Jim's  beginning.  "As  a  kid,"  Jim  recalls, 
"I  lived  in  a  tough  neighborhood.  The 
school  I  went  to  was  the  second  toughest 
in  all  of  Detroit.  We  had  thievery.  Slug- 
gings.    Knifings.    It  was  tough." 

Jim  was  born  in  Detroit,  September  9, 
1926.  His  parents  separated  when  he  was 
three.  He  was  raised  wholly  by  his  mother. 
She  is  a  college  graduate  who  then  taught 


grade  school  and  worked  as  a  librarian. 
"She  is  a  splendid  woman,"  Jim  says. 
"I  am  very  indebted  to  her.  She  was  the 
good  influence  in  my  life." 

Because  his  mother  worked,  Jim  was 
alone  much  of  the  time.  She  provided 
him  with  books,  but  it  didn't  keep  him 
out  of  the  streets.  "The  gangs  did  a  lot  of 
fighting,"  he  remembers.  "My  behavior 
wasn't  the  best.  However,  I  drew  the 
line  at  dishonesty."  This  wasn't  easy  dur- 
ing Depression  days,  for  Mrs.  Lipton  and 
son  were  poor  as  church  mice.  They  lived 
on  skimpy  rations.    They  had  no  luxuries. 

The  summer  he  was  thirteen,  Jim  Lip- 
ton got  his  first  job.  He  worked  in  a 
photo-engraving  plant  at  twelve  dollars 
a  week.  He  washed  photographic  glass  in 
nitric  acid.  This  turned  his  hands  yellow — 
but  that  was  nothing  compared  to  the  pain 
when  he  frequently  cut  his  hands  on 
ohipped  or  broken  plates  of  glass  and  the 
acid  got  into  the  wound.  Another  chore 
was  to  sweep  up.  He  was  at  this  job,  near 
the  end  of  the  summer,  when  his  job  van- 
ished. He  was  sweeping  up  the  floor — 
and  suddenly  there  was  no  floor.  The 
plant  had  blown  up.  Luckily  for  Jim,  he 
wasn't  hurt. 

"That  was  the  year  we  moved,  too,"  he 
recalls.  "To  a  very  small  apartment,  but 
in  a  better  neighborhood.  We  had  been 
living  with  my  grandparents,  and  it  was 
the  first  year  my  mother  and  I  had  any 
kind  of  privacy.  When  Christmas  came,  I 
insisted  that  we  had  to  have  a  tree.  Well, 
there  was  only  a  quarter  for  the  tree,  so 
I  put  off  shopping  until  late  Christmas 
Eve,  when  prices  come  down." 

He  had  acquired  one  string  of  six 
lights,  one  box  of  small  colored  balls  and 
one  box  of  icicles.  What  Jim  got  for  his 
quarter  was  a  tree  that  stood  about  six- 
feet  high  with  five  or  six  branches— and 
about  as  many  needles  to  each  branch. 
This  he  took  home  and,  together  with  his 
mother,  he  hung  the  balls  and  draped 
the  tinsel.  They  strung  the  lights  verti- 
cally,   straight    up    the   trunk. 

"Mother  and  I  played  it  straight,  too. 
We  both  admired  the  tree  and  said,  'How 
wonderful!'  Christmas  morning,  one  of 
my  uncles  came  over  and  we  showed 
him  the  ridiculous-looking  tree.  He  said 
nothing.  He  sat  down.  His  mouth  was 
working  and  he  was  trying  to  control 
himself,  but  he  couldn't.  He  burst  out 
laughing.  He  was  staring  at  the  tree  and 
laughing.  Then  I  laughed  and  so  did 
Mother.  We  laughed  till  we  fell  out  of 
our  chairs." 

From  the  age  of  ten,  Jim's  ambition  was 
to  be  a  lawyer.  That  year,  his  mother  had 
been  ill.  He  was  sent  away,  to  spend  the 
summer  with  an  uncle  in  California.  The 
uncle  was  an  attorney  and — compared  with 
Jim's  Detroit  home^lived  in  great  luxury. 
So  Jim  decided  he,  too,  would  study  law. 
In  grade  and  high  schools,  however,  he 
worked  in  dramatic  productions.  Ernie 
Ricca,  now  a  New  Yorker  and  director  of 
The  Romance  Of  Helen  Trent,  was  head 
of  production  at  Detroit's  Station  WWJ. 
He  heard  Jim,  who  was  sixteen,  on  a 
high-school  radio  show  and  invited  him 
to  audition  for  professional  work.  Within 
a  year,  Jim  was  making  about  sixty  dol- 
lars a  week  as  the  nephew  of  The  Lone 
Ranger. 

Continuing  his  radio  work,  Jim  en- 
rolled in  an  accelerated  pre-legal  course 
at  Wayne  University  and  was  a  sophomore 
when  he  enlisted  as  an  air  cadet.  That  was 
during  World  War  II.  Jim  was  still  a  cadet 
when  the  war  ended  a  year  later,  and  he 
was  discharged  before  winning  his  wings. 
"I  went  back  to  Detroit  for  a  week,"  he 
remembers.     "Just    one    week.     I    couldn't. 


I  Trapped  My  Man! 

My  sparkling  smile  won  my  wonderful  man. 
I  was  ashamed  to  smile  until  a  dentist  told 
me  how  I  could  have  a  brilliant,  captivating 
smile  with  the  regular  use  of  Iodent  No.  2. 

I  was  amazed  when  ugly  Smoke  Smudge 
and  Surface  Stains  disappeared  after  the 
first  few  brushings.  Take  a  tip  from  a  gal 
who  knows  .  .  .  get  a  tube  of  Iodent  No.  2 
today  and  you  too  can 
enjoy  the  glamour  of  a 
Hollywood  smile. 


MADE 

BY  A 

DENTIST 


OTHERS  miEND 


Fi 


THE 


The    soothing, 
refreshing  skin  con- 
ditioner that   pene- 
trates  and    brings 
relief  to  numbing, 
tingling  muscles  in 
back  and  legs  .  .  . 
ends  the  dis* 
(J*™:3&\  comfort  of 
'£*£££!*]  tight,  dry 
skin. 

At  Drug  Stores  Everywhere. 

S.S.S.  COMPANY,  ATLANTA,  GA. 


91 


Callouses,  Burning, 

Pain  at  Ball  of  Foot? 

Dr.Scholl'sNEW    wok^^x 
FAST  RELIEF!     °toeR  ^Tl 

You  actually  WALK  ON  CUSHIONS!  jf\JO 

;  /I       \Wi 

'  Stops  High  Heel  Sore- 
/'  ness  at  Ball  of  Foot 

Made  of  soft  LATEX  FOAM.  No  adhesive. 

It's  entirely  NEW!  Never  before  anything  like  it 
for  relieving  painful  callouses,  tenderness,  burning, 
soreness  at  ball  of  foot!  The  cushion  absorbs 
shock  of  each  step.  Dr.  Scholl's  BALL-O-FOOT 
Cushion  saves  your  energy;  eases  pressure  on  the 
nerves,  muscles  and  blood  vessels  in  this  area  of  the 
foot.  Flesh  color,  washable,  worn  invisibly.  $1  pair 
at  Drug,  Shoe,  Dept.,  5-10i  Stores,  Dr.  Scholl's 
Foot  Comfort*  Shops.  If  not  obtainable  locally,  send 
$1  direct   to   Dr.   Scholl's,  Inc.,    Chicago   10,   111. 


D-'Scholl's 
BALL-0-FOOT  Cushion 


SONG  POEMS  WANTED 

To  be  set  to  music   Send  your  poems  today  for  free 
examination ! 

J.  CHAS.  McNEIL   (A.  B.  Master  of  Music) 
510-MG  So.  Alexandria  Los  Angeles  5,  Calif. 


SWARoTOS 

Everybody's  doing  it! 

Beautiful  portrait-quality 

photos  made  from  youf 

favorite  snapshot  or  portrait! 

For  Super-Speed  service, 

send  25c  extra 

Send  picture  and  money  to: 

WALLET  PHOTOS,  Hillside.  N.I.  BOX  u-2 


we  pay  postage 


MONEY  SACK  GUARANTEE 


Extra  Cash -Each 
And  Every  Week 

If  you  are  looking  for  an  easy  way  to  earn 
extra  money  each  week,  send  us  your 
name  and  address  at  once.  We  pay  the 
highest  commissions  to  men  and  women 
all  over  the  country  who  help  us  take 
orders  for  magazine  subscriptions.  Write 
for  FREE  information:  Sales  Agents,  Mac- 
fadden  Publications,  205  E.  42  St.,  N.  Y.  17,  N.  Y. 


REMOVE  HAIR 


92 


New  IMPROVED  Formula 
removes  unwanted  hair  im- 
mediately from  lips,  chin,  face, 
arms,  and  legs.  Yes,  now  you 
can  actually  remove  hair 
ABOVE  and  BELOW  skin 
surface.  Not  a  painful  wax. 
GLOBE  Hair  Remover  is  odor- 
less, and  leaves  the  skin  silky- 
smooth  and  lovely  to  touch. 
We  GUARANTEE  that  we  will  refund  your 
money  if  after  the  third  application  HAIR 
GROWS  BACK.  $2.00  •  Triple  size  $5.00 
(1  Free  when  you  buy  2) 
Enclose  cash,  check  or  money  order,  or  we 
will  send  C.O.D.  plus  45c  postage. 

GLOBE    FASHIONS   CORP. 
Dept.  764,  Box  98,  Bay  Sta.,  Bklyn  35,  N.  Y. 


stay  there  much  longer.  There  were  too 
many  unpleasant  memories.  So  I  went  on 
to  New  York."  That  was  in  December  of 
1945.  He  auditioned  for  radio  work  and 
tried  to  enroll  at  Columbia  University 
in  a  pre-law  course.  Columbia,  over- 
crowded with  New  York  veterans,  turned 
him  down.  But,  within  two  weeks,  he 
had  three  substantial  roles  in  network  day- 
time dramas.  He  had  a  part  in  Just  Plain 
Bill  and  the  romantic  lead  in  both  David 
Harum  and  The  Strange  Romance  Of 
Evelyn  Winters. 

"It  was  another  year,"  Jim  says,  "before 
I  completely  gave  up  the  idea  of  studying 
law.  It  was  about  1947  that  I  became 
earnest  about  the  theater.  I  began  to  cut 
down  on  my  radio  work  so  that  I  could 
study  acting.  I  studied  with  Stella  Adler, 
a  wonderful  teacher.  I  studied  French 
three  evenings  a  week  for  two  years.  The 
study  still  goes  on  and  I've  been  getting 
the  equivalent  of  a  college  education. 
For  example,  I  have  a  list  of  classics  to  be 
read.  I'm  working  down  that  list.  I  haven't 
read  a  contemporary  book  in  a  couple  of 
years." 

Jim  Lipton  has  been  succeeding  as  an 
actor.  He  has  also  made  two  movies.  In 
1950,  he  went  to  Greece  to  play  the  lead  in 
the  film,  "Wheel  of  Fire,"  and  followed 
this  up  with  another,  "The  Big  Break" — in 
which  he  was  on  the  screen  for  all  but 
three  minutes.  On  Broadway,  he  has 
played  in  Lillian  Hellman's  "The  Autumn 
Garden"  and  has  held  the  lead  in  "Dark 
Legend."  He  has  been  Dr.  Grant  in  The 
Guiding  Light  for  four  years.  He's  played 
in  about  every  night-time  TV  dramatic 
show. 

He  met  Nina  on  a  TV  set.  "That  was  the 
production  of  'The  Skin  of  Our  Teeth.' 
Of  course,  I  couldn't  help  noting  the  par- 
ticulars about  Nina.  She's  a  beauty.  Blue- 
eyed.  Blond.  Pale  skin.  A  beautiful  fig- 
ure. But  she's  a  fine  actress,  and  then  it 
was  all  business.  We  just  worked  to- 
gether." 

It  was  thirteen  months  before  they  met 
again.  Nina  was  out  of  the  city  frequently. 
When  Jim  finally  got  through  on  the 
phone,  she  had  a  bad  cold.  A  few  days 
later,  he  phoned  again.  She  still  had  the 
cold  but  allowed  Jim  to  call.  Another 
couple  of  dates  and  there  was  a  spark. 
Time  passed  and  the  spark  flamed  and  they 
married.  The  double-ring  ceremony  took 
place  on  a  Saturday  in  Brooklyn. 

"I  was  working  on  The  Guiding  Light 
until  late  Friday,"  Jim  recalls,  "and  then  I 
had  five  days  off.  We  wanted  to  marry  on 
Saturday  but  couldn't  find  a  judge  to  per- 
form the  ceremony.  Most  of  them  seem 
to  play  golf  on  Saturday.  Finally,  our  at- 
torney found  a  judge  in  Brooklyn  who 
had  a  late  date  to  tee  off." 

Nina  has  said  that  Jim  impressed  her 
from  the  very  beginning  with  his  thought- 
fulness.  He  didn't  merely  bring  flowers.  He 
first  spun  them  into  a  gilded  bird  cage 
which  held  a  colorful  toy  bird.  And  usual- 
ly there  was  a  reason  behind  the  gift.  Nina, 
although  she  has  lived  in  the  United  States 
since  she  was  eight,  was  born  in  Leyden, 
Holland.  Her  mother  was  an  American 
actress  and  musical  comedy  star;  her 
father,  a  distinguished  Dutch  musical  con- 
ductor. In  tribute  to  Nina's  Dutch  ancestry, 
Jim  gave  her  colorful  old  Dutch  maps. 

It's  impossible  to  move  a  foot,  anywhere 
in  the  apartment,  without  finding  some- 
thing intriguing  to  catch  the  eye.  For  ex- 
ample, in  the  living  room  there  are  a  fork 
and  spoon  framed  behind  glass  and  hung 
on  the  wall — the  utensils  came  from  the 
personal  table  of  George  Bernard  Shaw. 
The  fork  and  spoon  are  ringed  by  original 
Daumier  lithographs.  There  are  a  couple 
of  plaques.  One  is  Nina's  Academy  Award 
nomination.  The  other  belongs  to  Jim  and 


is  the  TV  Radio  Mirror  Award  for  Favor- 
ite Daytime  Actor.  (Nina  wears  the  gold 
medal  which  came  with  this  Award,  on 
her  bracelet.)  There  is  a  scrawny  but 
beautiful  candelabra  which  holds  fifteen 
candles.  There  is  a  Venetian  map  which  is 
400  years  old.  The  walls  are  covered  with, 
maps,  prints,  mementoes  and  paintings — 
some  by  Nina.  Jim  brought  a  vase  from 
Greece  that  is  2500  years  old  and  it  is  on 
the  shelf  of  a  French  cabinet  which  dates 
back  to  1640.  In  the  casement  of  the  win- 
dow above  the  cabinet  is  a  plant  that 
stands  better  than  five  feet  tall. 

"That's  a  fatshedera — and  Nina's  pride," 
Jim  explains.  "When  she  goes  away  for  a 
time,  she  makes  me  solemnly  swear  that  I 
will  water  it  daily.  You  see,  Nina  has  never 
had  luck  with  plants.  This  is  the  first  that 
insisted  on  growing,  and  she  has  become 
close  to  it.  Once  there  was  soil  lice  in  the 
plant,  and  as  much  as  the  lice  upset  her, 
she  stood  by  the  plant  and  refused  to 
throw  it  out.  We  finally  killed  the  lice 
without  harming  the  plant." 

Iheir  apartment  is  about  six  floors  above 
the  street.  The  walls  are  white  with  a 
touch  of  pink.  The  carpeting  is  green. 
Generally  speaking,  the  apartment  is  fur- 
nished with  antiques — English,  Italian, 
French.  Although  it  is  as  handsome  as  it 
is  intriguing,  the  Liptons  are  getting 
crowded.  In  the  bedroom,  for  example,  is  a 
stack  of  cartons  that  reaches  to  the  ceiling. 

"That  was  my  Christmas  gift  to  Nina," 
Jim  explains.  "I  gave  her  a  complete  dark- 
room. Rather  the  equipment  for  a  dark- 
room. It's  never  been  unpacked  except  to 
look  at,  for  there's  no  place  to  set  it  up." 

Because  they  are  crowded,  they  will  be 
moving  into  a  larger  apartment — in  a 
building  now  nearing  completion.  It  will 
have  an  extra  bedroom  which  Jim  will  use 
for  his  writing.  And  it  will  have  a  larger 
kitchen,  important  for  Nina. 

"She  is  an  excellent  cook,"  Jim  says. 
"You  can  tell  that  with  just  a  glance  at  her 
spice  and  condiment  shelf.  I  like  to  help 
in  the  kitchen  and  she  is  teaching  me.  She 
calls  me  her  second  chef.  I'm  allowed  to 
slice  onions,  shell  peas,  stir  things,  turn  the 
meat  over  and  baste.  I  am  permitted  to 
make  only  mashed  potatoes  by  myself." 

On  Nina's  recent  Hollywood  trip,  she 
spent  four  months  working  in  Cecil  B.  De- 
Mille's  "The  Ten  Commandments."  Jim 
was  home  on  the  range  alone.  As  a  matter 
of  fact,  the  day  after  Nina  flew  out,  a 
delivery  boy  came  calling  with  a  gift  from 
her.  It  was  a  cookbook  for  Jim,  inscribed, 
"Now  you're  on  your  own."  And  he  did 
prepare  many  of  his  own  meals  while  she 
was  away.  He  even  invented  a  few  recipes 
involving  peanut  butter — peanut  butter 
spread  over  a  steak  before  broiling,  or 
peanut  butter  baked  on  corn  on  the  cob. 
Nina  was  a  little  horrified  at  some  of  these 
experiments. 

"We  used  to  talk  to  each  other  every 
night,"  Jim  says.  "We  always  try  to,  wher- 
ever we  are.  When  Nina  was  in  California, 
we  talked  an  hour  to  an  hour-and-a-half 
every  evening.  Came  to  hundreds  of  dol- 
lars each  month.  But,  after  all,  if  a  mar- 
riage is  going  to  succeed,  you  can't  let 
distance  keep  you  apart." 

This  is  one  aspect  of  their  lives  which 
makes  for  problems.  Jim  stays  close  to 
New  York,  but  Nina  must  go  out  of  the 
city  for  weeks  or  months  at  a  time — with 
a  show,  to  make  a  picture  or  a  personal 
appearance,  to  work  in  a  summer  theater. 
So  it's  hard  to  plan  for  the  larger  home 
they  want,  the  children  they  hope  to  have. 
But  anyone  who  knows  Jim  and  Nina  Lip- 
ton  also  knows  that  these  problems  will 
be  worked  out,  too— in  the  same  spirit  of 
romance  and  understanding  which  has  al- 
ready marked  their  courtship  and  mar- 
riage in  the  hectic  world  of  show  business. 


Ernie  Ford  &  Co. 


(Continued  from  page  24) 
five  years  the  land  would  be  ours."  But 
the  car  broke  down  in  Betty's  home  town 
of  San  Bernardino,  California.  Using  his 
past  experience,  Ernie  sold  himself  to  the 
local  radio  station  as  a  hillbilly  disc 
jockey. 

Shortly  thereafter,  Station  KXLA  in 
near-by  Pasadena  offered  him  a  better 
salary.  KXLA  was  Ernie's  big  break — 
for  there  he  met  his  manager  and  present 
producer,  Cliffie  Stone.  Cliffie  had  a  show 
called  Hometown  Jamboree.  Just  for  the 
fun  of  it,  Ernie  frequently  dropped  in  on 
Cliffie  to  clown  around  and  sing  a  song 
or  two. 

It  had  been  a  short  six  months  since 
Ernie's  discharge  from  the  Army — and 
since  the  Fords'  homesteading  trip  to 
Alaska  had  been  interrupted. 

Today,  more  than  six  years  later,  Er- 
nie's career  has  taken  off  like  a  'possum 
up  a  tree — the  pea-picker  with  a  smile  as 
warm  and  welcome  as  a  fireplace  on  a 
cold  winter's  night  has  become  a  fa- 
miliar TV  guest  in  40,000,000  homes  across 
the  country.  Though  "Ernie-isms"  are 
not  yet  being  included  in  Webster's  dic- 
tionary, they  certainly  have  become  a  part 
of  the   American   language. 

Today,  too,  Betty's  and  Ernie's  goal  of  a 
ranch  on  which  to  raise  their  two  boys, 
Buck,  7,  and  Brion,  3Vz,  has  been  realized. 
The  ranch,  though  not  in  Alaska,  is  situ- 
ated in  Clear  Lake,  California,  a  540-acre 
spread  of  lush  meadow  and  trees,  filled 
with  deer  and  quail,  a  Government-engi- 
neered dam  and  lake  stocked  with  fish,  a 
new  barn  filled  with  registered  Hereford 
cattle,  a  fieldstone  house  with  a  thirty - 
foot  living  room,  and  a  "south  40"  filled 
with  alfalfa — on  which  the  deer  come 
niehtly  to  feed. 

The  problem  that  faces  Ernie  is  this: 
Although  television  has  given  him  the 
wherewithal  to  buy  and  stock  such  a 
ranch,  it  is  also  television's  demands 
which  keep  him  from  spending  as  much 
time  there  with  his  sons  as  he'd  like. 
To  meet  this  problem,  Ernie  has  set  a 
schedule  for  himself  that  fills  his  life  like 
a  three-decker  sandwich.  He  feels  that 
five  12-hour  days  a  week  are  enough  to 
devote  to  any  career;  the  rest  of  the  time 
he  has  definitely  set  aside  for  his  family. 
Summer  vacations,  for  example,  are 
spent  on  the  ranch  with  Betty  and  the 
boys.  When  Ernie's  son  Buck  was  asked 
recently  what  the  family  did  all  summer, 
he  replied,  "We  swam  and  fished.  The 
first  day  I  caught  four  blue-gill  and  a 
catfish.     Daddy  didn't  catch  nothin'." 

Betty  reports  that  3y2-year-old  Brion 
wanted  to  go  fishing  with  his  older 
brother  Buck  and  Daddy,  too.  "But  half 
the  morning  had  gone  by,"  she  says,  "and 
Buck  had  four  blue-gill  on  the  landing 
and  Brion  didn't  have  anything — and  his 
face  began  to  grow  as  long  and  sad  as 
one  of  our  cows.  Then  Ford  whispered 
to  Buck  that  the  next  fish  he  caught  ought 
to  be  put  on  Brion's  line.  That's  when 
the  big  catfish  came  along.  Ernie  held 
Brion's  attention  for  a  few  minutes  while 
Buck  switched  the  catch.  Brion,  suddenly 
aware  of  the  tugging,  reeled  in  'his'  fish. 
Landing  it  on  the  dock,  he  exclaimed 
'Boy!  Look  at  this  one.  It's  got  Santa 
Claus  whiskers.' 

"As  for  myself,"  continues  Betty,  "this 
is  my  fourth  year  at  trying  to  water  ski — 
or  should  I  say  the  fourth  year  of  being 
dragged  through  the  water  head-first?" 

During  the  early  part  of  the  summer, 
Gene  Cooper,  foreman  of  the  Ford  ranch, 
went  down  into  the  city  for  a  few  days, 
to   shop   for  ranch   necessities,   and   Ernie 


was  left  to  look  after  the  stock.  "All  ex- 
cept the  cow,"  he  says.  "Gene  took  her 
down  to  the  neighbors  and  they  milked 
her  when  they  got  up  at  5  A.M.  For  the 
past  year,  I've  been  getting  up  at  5  A.M. 
for  my  early-morning  show — and  that 
milk  call  didn't  seem  right  somehow. 

"But  I  did  spend  my  days  feeding  and 
watering  the  horses,  chickens  and  pigs," 
Ernie  continues.  "We  have  two  sows — 
Tinker  Bell  and  Miss  Pea  Picker,  the  boys 
named  them — and  they  just  go  crazy 
when  you  sprinkle  'em  down.  I  can  say 
one  thing  about  ranching  and  farming 
today:  The  tools  we  have  to  work  with 
make  it  a  lot  more  modernistic  than 
when  I  was  on  my  Daddy's  farm  as  a  boy. 
We  have  tractors  and  all  new-fangled 
equipment.  When  I  was  a  boy,  we  hauled 
logs  with  a  yoke  and  two  oxen." 

Ernie  and  his  sons  find  pleasure  in 
something  as  simple  as  watching  a  young 
fawn  cautiously  steal  out  of  the  woods  at 
dusk  to  enjoy  an  appetizing  dinner  in 
Ernie's  alfalfa  field.  "I  took  Buck  and 
Brion  down  into  the  pine  grove  one  eve- 
ning," says  Ernie,  "and  we  waited  for 
about  twenty  minutes — when  out  came  a 
fawn,  ears  up  and  eyes  wide.  I  think  I 
can  safely  say  Buck's  eyes  were  wider 
than  the  fawn's,  and  Brion's  wider  still." 

Jliven  during  the  season  when  they're 
not  on  the  ranch,  Ernie  and  the  boys 
spend  their  Saturday  afternoons  down 
at  Fisherman's  Corner,  a  sporting  goods 
store  run  by  Ernie's  friends,  Dusty  Rhodes 
and  Paul  Niester.  They  walk  around 
picking  out  lead  sinkers  and  colorful  new 
fishing  plugs.  The  two  owners  grow 
crickets  for  bait,  and  this  glassed-in  en- 
closure keeps  the  boys  entranced  for 
hours.  It's  a  well-spent  afternoon  for  them, 
and  Ernie,  too.  The  boys'  reaction  when 
they  come  home  every  Saturday  evening 
is:  "Boy,  did  we  have  some  fun  today." 
Ernie   carbon-copies  these   sentiments. 

The  family  spends  as  much  time  as  they 
can  in  outdoor  living  at  their  ranch-type 
house  in  Whittier,  California.  Ernie  is 
a  good  cook — in  fact,  a  specialist  in  the 
field  of  barbecuing  (one  of  his  favorite 
well-thumbed  books  is  "Chefs  of  the 
West").  He's  such  an  expert  that,  when 
he  goes  hunting  with  his  friends  in  Utah, 
he's  elected  camp  cook.  And,  at  home, 
both  Buck  and  Brion  love  to  barbecue. 
Their  first  question,  Saturday  and  Sunday 
mornings,  is:  "When  are  we  going  to  make 
the  fire?" 

Brion,  getting  hungry  toward  evening, 
said  to  Ernie  recently,  "Daddy,  I  want  a 
cookie." 

"It's  to  close  to  dinner,"  Ernie  said. 

"What  we  gonna  have?" 

"Barbecued  chicken." 

Said  Brion,  "I'll  wait!" 

When  they  aren't  at  the  ranch,  Betty, 
Ernie  and  the  boys  spend  weekends  tour- 
ing Southern  California.  The  boys  espe- 
cially look  forward  to  this,  because  it 
means  a  ride  in  Ernie's  new  Thunderbird 
or  Ford  convertible.  If  the  barbecue 
hasn't  been  set  up  for  the  day,  Brion  asks, 
"Daddy,  do  we  get  a  ride  in  the  Fode?" 
And  Buck  calls  the  racy  little  sportster  a 
"Thunderboard." 

On  a  recent  weekend  trip  to  Santa  Bar- 
bara, Betty  and  Ernie  made  a  new  addi- 
tion to  the  family,  in  the  form  of  Bubbles, 
a  purebred  English  bulldog.  "Bubbles' 
grandfather,"  says  Betty,  "was  champion 
Honest  John.  When  I  saw  her  in  the 
kennel,  I  couldn't  resist  her,  so  I  bought 
her.  Ernie's  always  said  he  didn't  want 
any  dogs  in  the  house  until  the  children 
were  a  little  older — but  Bubbles,  in  spite 
of  her   face,   is   as   gentle   as   she   is   ugly. 


Special  New  Tablet 

Relieves  Monthly  Cramps 

for  3  out  of  4  in  Tests! 


Amazing  new  formula  developed 

especially  for  female  distress  gives 

greater  relief  than  aspirin! 

If  you  dread  those  "difficult  days"  each 
month,  listen!  Science  has  developed  a 
special  new  tablet  to  relieve  pain,  cramps, 
and  tense  feelings  of  monthly  periods! 
It  contains  a  unique  combination  of  medi- 
cines— including  blood-building  iron. 
Thus  offers  more  relief  than  plain  aspirin! 

In  doctors'  tests  painful  distress  was 
relieved  for  3  out  of  4  women!  Many 
didn't  suffer  even  on  the  first  day!  They 
also  escaped  much  of  the  jitters  and  un- 
happy tension  so  common  as  you  ap- 
proach that  trying  time  of  month. 

So  don't  suffer  needlessly.  Ask  for 
"Lydia  Pinkham  Tablets"  at  drug  stores. 
No  prescription  needed.  See  if  they  don't 
help  you  feel  worlds  better — both  before 
and  during  your  period! 

ANY  PHOTO  ENLARGED 

Size  8  x  lO  Inches 


67' 


on  DOUBLE-WEIGHT  Paper 

Same  price  for  full  length  or  boat 
form,  groups,  landscapes,  pet  ani- 
mals, etc.,  or  enlargements  of  any 
part  of  a  group  picture.  Original  is 
returned  with  your  enlargement. 

SendNoMoney  3  for  $1  so 

Just  mail  photo,  negative  or  snap- 
shot {any  size!  and  receive  your  enlargement, 
guaranteed  fade]  ess,  on  beautiful  double -weight 
portrait  quality  paper.  Pay  postman  67c  plus 
postage — or  send  69c  with  order  and  we  pay  post- 
age. Take  advantage  of  this  amazing  offer.  Sendyour  photos  today. 

Professional  Art  Studios, 544  S.  Main,  Dept.  36  P.    Princeton,  Illinois 


mt**™ 


3 


%tgTO€SS  SALE 

,  DRESSES 

ASSORTED  in  Silk,  Wool,  Cotfon  &  Rayon  .  All 
SIZES  in  Good  Condition. BUT  NO  IESS  THAN 
20  DRESSES  AT  THIS  BARGAIN  PRICE. 

MONEY  BACK  IF  NOT  SATISFIED 

SI. 00  D.potit  MUST  com*  with  erdor.  You  pay 

peitman   balonco   plus    COD.,   pottage   chargot. 

A  TRIAL  ORDER  Will  CONVINCE  YOU  OF 

OUR  WONDERFUL  BARGAINS 


MAIL  ORDER  MART 
199  Sackett   St.,  Bklyn  31.  N.Y. 


Dept. 
MW-11 


•  Ntme 

1  Address, 

,  City 

|    Enclosed    find    S  t  00    Deposit. 
|     balance  PLUS  postage. 

will    pay    postman    COD     | 

ITEM 

SIZE 

PRICE 

94 


ENJOY  A  PERMANENT, 
kBIG  PAY  CAREER  as  a 

i\  PRACTICAL 
NURSE 


EARN  AT  HOME  WHILE  LEARNING 

FREE  SAMPLE  LESSON  shows  how  easily  you  can 
become  a  professionally  trained  practical  nurse 
by  home  study  in  a  short  time.  NO  HIGH 
SCHOOL  NEEDED.   No  age   limit. 

FOR  FREE  LESSON  and 
FULL  INFORMATION 


|   Post  Graduate  Hospital 
j   School    of    Nursing 
'   9D116  Auditorium   Bldg. 
Chicago   5,    Illinois 


5» 


I 

I 

I 

|  Address. 


Name. 


City State. 


OLD  LEG  TROUBLE 


Easy  to  use  Viscose  Applications  may 
heal  many  old  leg  sores  due  to  venous 
congestion  of  varicose  veins,  leg  swell- 
ing or  injuries.  Send  today  for  a  FREE 
BOOK  and  No-Cost-For-Trial-plan. 

R.  G.  VISCOSE  COMPANY 
140  N.  Dearborn  Street,   Chicago  2,  Illinois 


KILL  THE  HAIR  ROOT 


/Destroy  unwanted  hair  PERMANENTLY.  Use  cort-j 
f  venlently  at  home.  When  you  have  read  our  j 
instruction  book  carefully  and  learned  to  use  i 

/the  new  Mohler  Epilator  safely  and  efficiently. 

/then  you  can  remove  unwanted  hair  FOREVER. 


/MONEY-BACK  GUARANTEE  (Oui 


JSe-nb  ScTODAY  fok  booklet 


MAHLER'S.  INC.. 


PROVIDENCE  15.  R.I. ' 


BE  A  BEAUTY  ADVISOR 

I  Show  You  How 

Previous  experience  unnecessary.  Make 
as  much  as  $5.00  in  one  hour  just  advis- 
ing friends  and  neighbors  on  proper  use  of 
famous  Studio  Girl  Hollywood  Cosmetics. 
Become  an  expert  with  only  a  few  hours  study. 
All  information  free.  If  you  send  name  today 
I  will  also  send  free  samples— no  charge  now 
or  at  any  other  time.  Send  your  name  to  me, 
Harry  Taylor,  President,  at  address  below. 

STUDIO  GIRL  HOLLYWOOD  COSMETICS 
DEPT.      38611  GLENDALE  4.  CALIFORNIA 


Doctors  recommend i 

TMtSGCRGT 


OF  A  MILLION 


trf* 


faAv 


SYRINGE  FOR   /'OMEN 


FREE  BOOKLET:  MARVEL  Co.,  1311TW  fast  St.,  New  Haven,  Conn. 


SHORTHAND 


IN  6  WEEKS 

Write  120  Words  Per  Minute. 
Age   no  Obstacle  —  LOWEST  COST 

Famous  SPEEDWRITING  shorthand.  No  symbols,  no 
machines,  uses  ABC's.  Easiest  to  learn  and  use.  Fast 
preparation  for  a  better  position.  Nationally  used  in 
leading  offices  and  Civil  Service.  120  words  per 
minute — 50<7©  FASTER  than  Civil  Service  require- 
ments. Over  35O.000  taught  by  mail  or  through  class- 
room instruction.  The  very  low  cost  will  surprise  you. 
Typing  available.  34th  Year. 
Schools  in  over  400  cities  in 
U.  S-.  Canada,  Cuba  and  Hawaii. 
WRITE  FOR  FREE  BOOKLET 
TO   SCHOOL  OF 


DID  KOU  SEE 

HEADER'S  DIGEST 

ARTICLE 

ON 


Besides,  she's  big  enough  to  take  care  of 
herself  with  the  kids.  However,  Ernie  has 
been  won  over.  He  always  puts  a  special 
bone  on  the  fire  for  the  dog — Bubbles  is 
as  big  a  fan  of  the  barbecue  as  the  kids 
are.  Ernie's  only  objection  to  the  dog 
now  is  that,  when  her  stomach's  full, 
Bubbles  snores." 

Because  Ernie  originally  had  not 
wanted  a  dog,  he  thought  he'd  "get  even" 
with  Betty  and,  at  Christmas,  presented 
her  with  a  gag  gift — a  baby  burro  by  the 
name  of  Jewel.  The  gag  was  on  Ernie, 
because  Jewel  ate  the  oranges  off  his 
six  orange  trees  and  devoured  all  the 
foliage  and  shrubs  around  the  house — 
including  Ernie's  prized  imported  Hawai- 
ian tree  fern,  which  Jewel  ate  right  down 
to  the  roots.  Jewel  has  since  moved  to 
the  wide  open  spaces  on  a  friend's  Palm 
Springs  ranch,  leaving  Bubbles  the  un- 
questioned queen  of  the  household. 

Given  a  free  moment  in  the  summer, 
Ernie  would  spend  it  swimming  in  the 
family  pool.  When  the  weather  turns 
cold,  he'll  take  out  one  of  his  deer  guns 
and  give  it  a  good  cleaning  with  a  promise 
for  use.  "Or,"  says  Betty,  "Ford  and  I 
will  talk  about  the  ranch  .  .  .  that  seems 
to  be  our  main  preoccupation." 

But  whether  he's  at  the  ranch  or  plan- 


e  to 

Er- 


ning  with  Betty  how  it  will  continue 
play  a  growing  part  in  their  future, 
nie's  thoughts  revolve  around  the  day  he 
will   be    able    to    spend    full-time    on    his 
540  acres  with  the  boys. 

If  you  were  to  draw  a  personality  pic- 
ture of  Tennessee  Ernie  Ford,  you'd  find 
he  fits  the  role  of  down-to-earth  rancher 
as  well  as  that  of  a  Hollywood  television 
star.  His  first  thoughts  in  the  morning 
are  more  concerned  with  the  going  price 
of  hogs  than  with  his  own  TV  rating.  It's 
almost  more  important  to  him  to  find  that 
a  new  calf  has  been  born  than  to  know 
that  his  sponsors  renewed  his  contract. 
And  the  fact  that  his  young  bull  recently 
had  a  fever  was  more  of  a  catastrophe  to 
Ernie  than  that  his  morning  TV  show  was 
pre-empted   by   the   political   conventions. 

To  Tennessee  Ernie,  a  handful  of  rich 
earth  is  just  as  important — if  not  more  so — 
than  a  fistful  of  nice,  green  paper  money. 
In  fact,  every  morning,  as  he  drives  to 
work  down  the  Hollywood  Freeway  in 
his  new  Ford,  listening  to  the  Farm  Re- 
porter on  the  car  radio,  he  thinks  to  him- 
self that  he's  going  down  the  long  road 
that  will  ultimately  take  him  home  .  .  . 
to  the  little  bit  of  Tennessee  he's  planted 
on  his  Clear  Lake  ranch  in  Northern 
California. 


Home  Girl 


(Continued  from  page  26) 
occasion,  Doris's  husband  Larry  has  the 
kind  of  handsomely  happy  face  that  always 
looks  comically  pleasant.  Larry  couldn't 
look  glum  if  he  tried.  "Doris,"  he  repeated, 
with  a  worried  note  in  his  voice,  "I  think 
Danny's  got  the  mumps."  Doris's  happy 
humming  stopped.  "Oh,  no!" 

"Yes  .  .  .  look."  And  Danny — with  Larry's 
hand  on  top  of  his  head — peeked  around 
the  side  of  his  father's  leg,  blinking  at  his 
mother.  His  jaws,  just  beginning  to-  puff, 
ga^°  him  the  look  of  a  pale-faced  chip- 
munk. 

jJoris's  thoughts  of  a  vacation  flew. 
Rushing  to  his  side,  she  exclaimed,  "Oh, 
Danny!"  Kneeling  beside  him,  she  gently 
placed  one  long,  delicate  hand  against  his 
now-round   cheek.   "Does   it  hurt?" 

"No,"  said  Danny.  Having  never  heard 
of  mumps,  he  was  rather  pleased  he  had 
something  nobody  else  in  the  house  could 
lay  claim  to. 

"How    do    you   feel?"    asked    Doris. 

"Fine — can  I  have  a  peanut-butter  sand- 
wich?" Oblivious  to  the  fact  that  he  was 
suffering  from  his  first  childhood  disease, 
Danny  still  had  a  growing  boy's  appetite. 

An  hour  later,  the  doctor  had  come  and 
gone,  verified  the  diagnosis,  and  emphat- 
ically told  Doris  and  Larry  that  Danny  had 
to  stay  in  bed  from  five  to  ten  days.  There 
went  the  poolside  vacation.  Ten  minutes 
after  the  doctor  left,  Danny  was  propped 
up  in  bed,  peanut-butter  sandwich  in 
hand,  his  automatic  record-player  on  one 
side,  his  teddy-bear  in  arms,  a  portable 
TV  set  blaring  in  front  of  him  .  .  .  and 
Doris  beside  him  reading  Pogo,  the  fam- 
ily's favorite  comic  strip.  It  was  then  11:30 
A.M.  Doris  could  be  seen  singing  on  the 
kinescoped    Tennessee    Ernie    Ford    Show. 

After  her  last  number,  it  was  plain  to 
see  that  Ernie  enjoyed  Doris's  singing. 
"Thank  you,  Doris,"  he  said,  his  voice 
booming  into  Danny's  *bedroom^-as  Doris 
continued  recounting  Pogo's  exploits. 
"Thank  you,  that  was  wonderful." 

Doris  is,  in  fact,  as  sweet,  simple  and 
charming  on  Ernie's  daytime  show  as  she 
is  at  home  with  her  young  son  Danny.  So 
often,  the  star  of  a  show  like  Tennessee 
Ernie's  will  thank  his  featured  performers 
simply  out  of  habit.  But  Ernie's  daily  pro- 
gram, though  it  is  relaxed  and  easygoing, 


is  not  entirely  an  ad-lib  show.  So,  when 
Ernie  takes  an  extra  few  seconds  to  in- 
troduce Doris — and  then,  at  the  end  of 
her  number,  to  thank  her  for  the  way  she 
has  moved  him  with  her  song — you  know 
he  is  sincere. 

"  'Wholesome'  is  the  word  for  Doris," 
says  executive  producer  Cliffie  Stone. 
"Just  like  fcrnie,  she  is  one  of  the  most 
unaffected  performers  I've  ever  met.  And 
that's  not  an  easy  quality  to  find  in  pro- 
fessionals— we  auditioned  fifty  girls  be- 
fore we  found  Doris.  I  knew,  the  minute 
she  started  singing,  that  she  was  the  one 
for  us.  .  .  .  Besides  her  wonderful  person- 
ality, Doris  is  a  more  than  capable  singer. 
She  can  deliver  a  ballad  as  well  as  a 
novelty  tune.  And,  because  she's  taken  the 
trouble  to  learn  how  to  read  music,  Doris 
is  a  quick  study.  You'd  be  surprised  at  the 
number  of  professional  singers  who  can't 
read  music,  relying  on  their  ear  to  pick 
out  the  tune.  Not  Doris — and  she  therefore 
saves  us  rehearsal  time. 

"Most  important,"  Stone  continues, 
"Doris  is  one  of  the  most  cooperative 
people  I've  ever  worked  with.  Take  our 
novelty  numbers,  for  example.  Once  we 
did  a  tune  called  'Mississippi  Mud,'  where 
we  opened  on  Doris  and  Molly  Bee  sitting 
on  a  mock  levee  with  their  bare  feet  in  a 
tray  of  mud.  Some  singers  might  hesitate 
to  go  along  with  this  because  they  feel  it 
makes  them  look  unglamorous.  Not  Molly 
nor  Doris.  Another  time,  we  asked  Doris 
to  sing  a  farm  song  while  milking  a  cow 
on  stage.  Doris  milked  and  sang.  .  .  .  We 
even  had  her  sing  a  duet  with  Ernie  while 
holding  a  squealing  piglet!  As  exec-pro- 
ducer, I  think  I  can  safely  say:  If  you 
want  to  know  how  cooperative  a  performer 
can  be,  just  once  ask  him  or  her  to  sing 
a  duet  while  holding  a  pig.  .  .  .  Doris  never 
complains.  She  just  smiles — and  sings." 

Larry,  her  handsome  husband,  says,  "It's 
hard  for  me  to  describe  Doris's  personality 
in  one  word.  But,  if  I  had  to,  I'd  say  she 
is  warmhearted.  Take  our  vacation  with 
the  mumps,  for  example  .  .  .  she  was  dis- 
appointed, sure — but  you'd  never  guess  it 
by  watching  her.  She  spent  every  minute 
with  Danny.  .  .  .  And  it  wasn't  easy — be- 
cause Danny  never  knew  he  was  sick.  He 
still  had  plenty  of  energy,  and  keeping 
him  in  bed  for  five  days  took  ingenuity. 


"I  only  learned,  after  it  was  all  over,  that 
Doris  had  never  had  the  mumps!  But  it 
didn't  faze  her — she  was  with  Danny  every 
second  because  he  needed  her  attention. 
.  .  .  She  always  has  great  patience  with 
Danny,  who  is  now  going  through  the 
'Why,  why,  why?'  stage.  I  have  to  admit 
that  sometimes  when  he  askes  me,  'Why?' — 
I  simply  say,  'Because.  .  .'  and  let  it  go  at 
that.  But  not  Doris.  She  gives  him  an-  an- 
swer. It  may  be  over  his  head,  but  she 
says  th:it  what  he  doesn't  understand  won't 
hurt  him." 

Tennessee  Ernie's  popular  songstress  was 
born  in  San  Antonio,  Texas,  August  23, 
1930.  Doris  recalls  her  family  as  the  hap- 
piest in  town,  and  attributes  it  to  music. 
Both  her  brothers  were  interested  in 
music,  and  her  mother  was  a  competent 
pianist.  "When  I  was  about  four,"  Doris 
recalls,  "my  brother  Henry  brought  all  the 
musicians  in  town  to  our  place  on  week- 
ends for  jam  sessions.  My  mother  en- 
couraged Henry's  interest — feeling,  I  imag- 
ine, that  it  was  best  to  have  her  son  in 
sight.  I  well  remember  those  summer  Sun- 
days in  the  big  living  room,  with  my 
brother  and  his  friends  beating  out  a  jazz 
classic— and  Mother  at  the  piano. 

"Saturdays  and  Sundays,  my  mother  had 
open  house  for  San  Antonio's  musicmakers, 
and  I'm  sure  I  absorbed  a  great  deal  of 
musical  knowledge  sitting  by  her  piano, 
with  my  brother  Henry — and  the  famous 
Mel  Winters  of  Henry  Busse's  orchestra — 
all  stomping  out  a  jazz  tempo  .  .  .  and  my 
little  four-year-old  foot  stomping  in  time 
along  with  them." 

Doris'  father,  an  architect,  died  when 
she  was  still  quite  young  and,  in  later 
summers,  she  was  sent  to  live  with  her 
uncles  and  aunts  on  their  near-by  ranches. 
"My  grandmother  had  ten  children,"  Doris 
says  with  a  smile,  "so  there  were  always 
plenty  of  ranches."  Her  fondest  memories 
of  those  early  days  are  going  swimming,  in 
the  swimmin'  hole,  and  fishing.  "We  used 
to  seine  for  'minnahs,' "  Doris  says  with 
her  graceful  Texas  drawl,  "and,  at  night, 
my  uncle  and  I  set  hand  lines  for  catfish. 
I  was  so  eager  to  see  how  many  we  caught 
I  could  hardly  sleep.  We  would  get  up  at 
five  A.M.,  just  as  it  grew  light,  to  pull  in 
the  lines — and  have  fresh  catfish  for 
breakfast. 

"I  still  love  catfish — fish  of  any  kind  for 
that  matter,"  she  adds,  "and  I  still  love  to 
fish.  I  like  to  go  barefoot,  too.  When  we 
moved  to  California,  I  was  afraid  I'd  have 
to  wear  shoes — even  in  the  house.  But 
Calif ornians  are  just  as  relaxed  as  Texans. 
Isn't  that  wonderful?" 

The  first  time  Doris  had  an  audience — 
bigger  than  the  gang  gathered  at  the  jam 
session  in  her  living  room — was  in  ele- 
mentary school.  She  sang  at  every  assem- 
bly and  auditorium  call.  But  the  first  big 
reaction  to  her  singing  ability  came  when 
she  entered  Brackenridge  High  School. 
"When  I  first  transferred  over  from  junior 
high,"  says  Doris,  "the  teachers  asked  us 
if  we  had  any  special  talents.  I  told  some- 
one I  could  sing.  Later,  I  was  called  on 
to  sing  for  the  first  general  assembly. 

"None  of  my  classmates  had  heard  me 
before,  because  we  had  come  from  differ- 
ent schools.  I  was  a  little  bit  nervous  when 
I  first  stepped  out  on  the  stage — after  all, 
this  was  the  first  time  I'd  sung  for  such  a 
large  group  of  'adults'  (I  considered  the 
seniors  to  be  grown-up),  and  I  wanted 
very  much  to  please  them.  When  I  finished 
my  song,  the  kids  cheered.  And,  the  next 
day,  my  picture  was  on  the  front  page  of 
the  school  paper.  The  caption  read: 
'Brackenridge  High  School's  own  Dinah 
Shored  I  was  never  more  thrilled  or 
proud." 

Doris's  first  professional  job  came  as  a 
result  of  a  beauty  contest — she  won  the 
title    of   "Miss   Arthur   Murray"    and   was 


offered  a  job  teaching  dancing  in  the  local 
studio.  But  Doris  didn't  want  to  dance, 
she  wanted  to  sing,  so  she  turned  the 
offer  down.  Shortly  after  that,  the  owner 
of  the  Kit  Kat  Club  in  San  Antonio — re- 
membering Doris  from  the  contest — asked 
her  if  she  would  like  to  sing  part-time  in 
his  club.  She  accepted.  When  Doris  was 
graduated  from  high  school  in  1945,  she 
sang  for  the  officers'  club  at  the  Gunther 
Hotel  in  San  Antonio.  Then  the  urge  to 
get  closer  to  show  business  brought  her 
for  the  first  time  to  Hollywood  .  .  .  where 
she  promptly  won  first  prize  in  a  talent 
contest,  competing  against  3,000  other  girls 
— and  winning  an  engagement  with  the  fa- 
mous  "Mr.   Music,"  Frankie   Laine. 

For  one  so  new  to  show  business,  this 
was  a  quick  beginning  of  bigtime  success: 
Laine's  managers  immediately  recognized 
Doris's  talent  and  began  to  build  her  up 
with  bookings  in  the  major  Southland 
clubs  and  dining  spots.  Doris  sang  at  Bim- 
bo's in  San  Francisco,  the  Chi  Chi  in  Palm 
Springs,  Mapes  Hotel  in  Reno — and  her 
fifth  engagement  was  at  the  world-famous 
Ciro's  in  Hollywood. 

"I  was  frightened  over  the  fact  that  I 
would  be  singing  for  an  audience  full  of 
entertainers,"  says  Doris.  "I  felt  it  was  still 
too  soon  for  me.  I  was  afraid  they'd  think 
I  was  corny."  But  Doris's  fears  were  un- 
justified. She  had  a  simple  act,  based  on 
ever-popular  and  well-loved  standards 
which  she  sang  from  her  heart.  A  Holly- 
wood maxim  says  that  true  talent  can  be 
judged  on  how  well  you  do  the  simple 
things.  Doris  obviously  had  talent,  and 
the  opening-night  show-business  audience 
responded  with  cheers. 

Overnight,  Doris  became  an  entertainer's 
entertainer.  Wherever  she  was  booked  in 
the  Los  Angeles  area,  well-known  "names" 
— like  Peter  Lawford,  Hugh  O'Brian,  the 
late  Robert  Walker — all  used  to  drive 
across  town  just  to  hear  Doris  sing.  Doris, 
with  a  fan  following  of  stars,  was  fast 
arriving. 

Then — on  a  booking  at  the  Schroeder 
Hotel  in  Chicago — Doris  met  her  husband- 
to-be  .  .  .  comedian  Larry  Allen,  who  was 
appearing  across  the  street  at  the  Tick 
Tock  Club.  "All  the  entertainers  used  to 
gather  for  breakfast  at  the  Schroeder," 
says  Larry,  "and  I  was  first  struck  with 
Doris's  beauty— she  did  win  a  beauty  con- 
test, you  know — but  more  important,  she 
turned  out  to  have  such  a  wonderful  sense 
of  humor. 

"Every  night  or  so,"  Larry  continues, 
"Doris  and  some  of  her  friends  came  into 
the  back  of  the  Tick  Tock  for  the  last  show. 
Even  Doris,  sitting  in  the  last  row,  laughed 
at  my  jokes.  So,  naturally — being  a  co- 
median— I  thought  she  was  pretty  terrific. 
We've  been  married  five  years  now,  and 
when  she  comes  to  a  club  where  I'm  play- 
ing, she  still  sits  in  the  back  row  .  .  .  but, 
instead  of  laughing,  she  whispers  the 
punch  lines  before  I  get  to  them!" 

Immediately  after  their  first  date,  Larry 
and  Doris  realized  they  had  a  great  deal 
in  common.  They  both  loved  music,  show 
business  was  their  life,  and  they  loved 
children.  Their  one  basic  difference  was 
their  religion.  Larry  was  Jewish,  Doris 
Protestant.  "But  all  major  religions  are 
based  on  love,"  says  Doris.  "We  knew,  if 
we  had  love  in  our  marriage,  we'd  be  off 
to  a  good  start." 

Doris  and  Larry  were  married  in  Chi- 
cago by  a  rabbi  of  the  reformed  church. 
They  had  a  small  wedding  and  left  imme- 
diately for  St.  Louis,  where  Larry  was  to 
open  the  next  night.  Their  next  year  was 
practically  a  honeymoon  for  the  Aliens, 
since  they  frequently  worked  together  on 
the  same  bill,  she  as  a  singer,  he  as  a 
comedian.  In  the  spring  of  1952,  Larry 
worked  at  a  Wisconsin  job,  primarily  be- 
cause he  didn't  want  Doris,  now  pregnant, 


Acid  Indigestion? 
Heartburn  ?^^J 

Gas?. 


Wherever  you  are, 
whatever  you're 
doing  —  you  can 


Ffr  it 
On  The  Spot/ 


FOR  THE  TUMMY 
Get  TUMS  today!  3  roll  package— 25* 


mo 

^Your 
Child's 
Photo 


HUNDREDS  OF  DOLLARS  PAID... 

each  month  by  advertisers  for  boys  &  girls 
pictures  (6  mo.  to  18  yrs.)  (or  TV.Calendar  & 
Magazine  ads.  Your  child  has  same  opportu- 
nity. Send  ONE  (II  small  photo  for  approval. 
Print  child's  and  mothers  name  and  address 
on  back.  Returned  in  20  days  with  report. 
NO  OBLIGATION. 

H0LLYW00D™SP0TLITE,   Dept.   AK 
1611    No.    La   Brea,    Hollywood,    Calif. 


Amazing  Opportunity  To 
Earn  Spare-Time  Cash! 

Rush  name  and  address  today  for 

FREE  money-making  information: 

Subscription  Agents  Division 

MACFADDEN    PUBLICATIONS 

205  E.  42  St.,   N.Y.   17,   N.Y. 


MILADY'S  ELECTRIC  RAZOR 

Now  whisk  off  unwanted  hair  from  legs,  under- 
arms or  anywhere  with  specially  designed  Milady's 
Electric  Razor.  Leaves  skin  smooth  as  a  baby's — 
no  chafing — no  stubble — no  mess. 

Banish  unwanted  hair  problems  forever.  Try  30 
days  in  your  home.  Precision  engineered  to  give 
full  satisfaction  or  your  purchase  price  refunded. 
Guaranteed  against  mechanical  defect  for  one 
year  or  replacement  free.  Only  S3. 95  with  carrying 
case.  A.C.  only. 
Send  $3.95  and  Pai  klane  shins  prepaid,  or  If  COO 

send  SOc  deposit  and  you  pay  postage  charges. 

PARKLANE    Products,    Dept.    P391 
30   West   22nd   St.,   N.   Y.   10.    N.  Y. 


95 


a 


y  m     v     ^   w     w 
I       Can't  Get  Rid  of 
[Dark  or  Discolored  Skin, 
kFreckles,SkinSpots?^ 


HERE'S  HELP!  Mercolized  Wax  Cream 
7  NIGHT  PLAN  Lightens, 
Beautifies  Skin  Whil  e  You  Sleep 

Just  follow  the  famous  Mercolized  Wax 
Cream  7  Night  Plan  to  a  whiter,  smoother, 
lovelier  skin.  Smooth  rich,  luxurious  Mer- 
colized Wax  Cream  on  your  face  or  arms 
just  before  retiring  each  night  for  one  week. 
—  You'll  begin  to  see  results  almost 
at  once  .  .  .  lightens  dark  skin, 
blotches,  spots,  freckles  as  if  by 
magic!  This  is  not  a  cover  up  cos- 
metic; Mercolized  Wax  Cream 
works  UNDER  the  skin  surface. 
Beautiful  women  have  used  this 


Lightens  dark 

skin  and  ugly 
spots  almost 
overnight. 


time-tested  plan  for  over  40  years  — you'll 
love  it's  fast,  sure,  longer  lasting  results! 
Mercolized  Wax  Cream  is  sold  on  100%  guar- 
antee or  money  back.    Start  using  it  now  I 

MERCOLIZED  WAX  CREAM 

At  All  Drug  and  Cosmetic  Counters 

HlegTsufterers 
Why  continue  to  suffer  without  attempt- 
ing to  do  something?  Write  today  for  New 
Booklet^"THE  LIEPE  METHODS  FOR 
HOME  USE."  It  tells  about  Varicose 
Ulcers  and  Open  Leg  Sores.  Liepe  Methods 
used  while  you  walk.  More  than  60  years  of 
success.  Praised  and  en- 
dorsed by  multitudes. 

LIEPE  METHODS,  3250  N.  Green  Bay  Ave.. I 
Dept  24-M,    Milwaukee   12,  Wisconsinl 


FREE 


irffy    Records 

FOR   ADULTS  ONLY 


V 


THEY'RF  TERRIFIC!  Brand  new  series 
of  exclusive  records  Racy  ditties  and  gay 
parodies  about  those  spicy,  intimate  me- 
ments  Really  shocking  but  so  much  fun 
foi  you  and  your  guests  Complete  set  of 
EIGHT  DIFFERENT  SELECTIONS  on 
finest  quality  7S  or  45  r.p.m  records  (state 
choice),  sent  prepaid  in  plain,  sealed  pack- 
age for  S4.95  (no  c  o.d.'s).  SPECIAL  OF- 
FER: Two  Different  Sets  of  16  Recordings 
for  only  $8  95.  For  a  thrilling  adventure  In 
adult  entertainment,  order  yours  Today' 

NATIONAL,  Dept.  56-F,  Box  5.  Sta.  E,  TOLEDO  9.  OHIO 


ii/Vwite 


96 


MAKE   $SO-$60  A  WEEK 

Tou  can  learn  practical  nursing  at  home 
in  spare  time.  Course  endorsed  by  phy- 
sicians.  Thousands  of  graduates.   57th 
yr.  One  graduate  has  charge  of  10-bed 
hospital.    Another    saved    $400    while 
learning.    Equipment    included.    Men. 
women    18    to    60.    High    school    not 
required.  Easy  tuition-  payments.  Trial  plan.  Write  today. 
CHICAGO    SCHOOL    OF    NURSING 
Dept.  211.  25   East  Jackson   Blvd..  Chicago  4,    III. 
Please  send  free  booklet  and  16  sample  lesson  pages. 

Name _ - 

City .State Age 


FREE  SALES  KIT 

Rush  your  name  and  address  today  for  amaz- 
ing new  sales  kit.  It's  absolutely  FREE.  Gives 
you  startling  money-making  information.  Tells 
you  how  to  make  big  money  fast  and  often  by 
helping  us  take  orders  for  magazine  subscrip- 
tions in  your  neighborhood.  Shows  you  how  to 
do  it.  FREE  kit  works  like  magic  to  put  dol- 
lars in  your  pocket!  You  don't  invest  a  penny 
of  your  money  now  or  any  time.  We  supply 
everything  you  need  free.  Act  now.  No  experi- 
ence needed.  No  obligation.  Paste  this  ad  on  a 
post  card  and  mail  today  to:  Subscription 
Agents  Division,  c/o  TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East 
42  Street.  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 


BE  FUN  TO  BE  WITH 
. . .  even  after  "one  of  those  days" 

The  off-to.-school-rush,  hurried 
shopping  and  a  million  other  de- 
tails seem  to  pile  up  on  "one  of 
those  days."  When  you  feel  tense 
and  edgy,  Miles  NERVINE  can 
be  a  help.  You  don't  want  to  feel 
logy  and  dull.  You  want  Miles 
NERVINE.  It  simply  helps  you 
relax,  and  eases  tenseness.  Follow 
the  label,  avoid  excessive  use.  Buy 
Miles  NERVINE  — effervescent 
tablets  or  liquid — atany  drugstore. 


to  have  to  travel.  They  lived  in  a  cottage 
on  the  grounds,  ate  in  the  dining  room, 
and  Larry,  having  to  work  only  three 
shows  a  week,  was  the  most  doting  young 
husband  in  the  north  woods. 

Danny  Allen  was  born  in  Chicago,  Sep- 
tember 23,  1952.  "I  was  nervous,"  Larry 
recalls,  "as  only  a  new  father  can  be!  I  was 
so  scared,  I  found  myself  praying,  'Dear 
God,  if  anything  has  to  happen,  let  it  hap- 
pen to  me.' " 

After  Danny's  birth,  the  family  moved 
to  California,  where  both  Larry  and  Doris 
were  kept  busy  for  a  full  year — she  on  the 
Jack  Carson  Show,  and  he  on  club  dates  , 
throughout  the  Southwest.  It  was  during 
this  time  that  the  Tennessee  Ernie  audi- 
tion came  along,  and  producer  Cliffie  Stone 
— already  having  interviewed .  fifty  girls — 
heard  Doris. 

"When  Ernie's  show  was  being  seen  at 
nine  A.M.,"  says  Larry,  "Doris  got  up  at 
five  A.M.  to  be  at  rehearsals.  At  an  hour 
like  that,  one  might  have  expected  her  to 
be  a  little  edgy.  But  I  can't  remember 
Doris  ever  being  anything  but  her  gener- 
ous self.  She  has  no  artistic  temperament." 
Today,  the  two  things  Doris  thinks  about 
most  are  her  new  house  and  son  Danny. 
Now  that  the  Tennessee  Ernie  Ford  Show 
is  seen  at  a  later  hour,  Mondays  through 
Fridays,  she  has  more  time  to  spend  with 
both  her  loves.  "She's  even  a  good  garden- 
er," says  Larry.  "There's  nothing  Doris 
can't  do.  Honestly,  I  didn't  know  I'd  mar- 
ried a  good  cook,  until  we  finally  moved 
into  our  new  place.  Before  that,  we'd  been 
living  in  apartment  hotels,  eating  our 
meals  out.  Now  I  learn  my  wife  has  a 
secret  recipe  for  spaghetti — got  it  from  a 
friend  who  had  been  to  Italy — and,  unless 
she  does  the  shopping,  I  automatically 
bring  home  spaghetti  for  dinner." 

The  new  schedule  also  has  given  Doris 
a  chance  to  spend  some  of  her  free  time 
on  her  hobby — sewing.  She's  made  drapes 
and  curtains  for  the  new  house,  and  also 
many  of  her  own  clothes.  On  the  fashion 
side,  Doris  is  torrid  over  toreador  pants, 
has  thirty  pairs  of  slacks  in  one  form  or 
another,  loves  casual  clothes,  and  runs 
around  the  house  in  sandals — or,  better 
still,  barefoot. 

Larry  found  their  rustic  North  Holly- 
wood home  when  he  discovered  its  founda- 
tion across  the  street  from  a  house  he  had 
come  to  inspect.  "Doris  and  I  walked  over 
to  the  concrete  outline,"  says  Larry,  "and 
I  figured  where  the  pipes  stuck  out  of  the 
ground  must  be  the  kitchen.  'Big  kitchen,' 
I  said  to  Doris.  She  agreed,  and  we  both 
wanted  a  big  kitchen.  And  there  was  one 
large  slab  of  concrete  with  nothing  stick- 
ing out  of  it.  Doris  pointed,  saying  quiz- 
ically,  "The  living  room?'  'Yes,'  I  said.  We 
visualized  a  big  living  room.  Agreeing  that 
the  foundation  was  our  idea  of  a  perfect 
house,  we  contacted  the  contractor  and 
bought  same." 

"When  it  came  to  furnishings,"  says 
Doris,  "Larry  and  I  discovered  we  were 
'sway'  buyers.  Most  of  the  furnishings 
came  from  Studio  Furniture  in  North 
Hollywood.  It's  Swedish  modern.  Since  we 
have  the  same  tastes,  we  picked  it  out 
together.  However,  sometimes  when  we 
went  into  the  store,  I'd  exclaim  over  a 
chair — and  Larry's  reaction  was  a  grunt  or 
a  raised  eyebrow.  That  meant:  'I  think 
you  are  crazy — but,  if  you  want  it,  you  are 
welcome  to  it.'  Naturally,  I  didn't  commit 
myself.  After  a  few  minutes,  I'd  exclaim 
over  another  chair.  If  Larry  exclaimed 
back,  I  knew  we  had  'swayed'  each  other." 
Doris  and  Larry  are  gadget- crazy.  Since 
they  were  able  to  work  with  the  contractor 
from    the    ground    up,    they    have    every 


gadget  available  for  modern  living — a 
built-in  oven,  table-top  stove,  inter-corns 
in  every  room,  special  tile  in  the  kitchen 
for  easy  cleaning.  "If  there  is  a  new  fan- 
gled  can  opener  or  bottle  opener  on  the 
market,"  says  Larry,  "we  have  it."  And 
Doris  proudly  points  out  that  Larry  is  a 
handyman.  He  has  built  a  three  by  four  by 
three-foot  four-speaker  hi-fi  set,  a  cabinet 
for  the  TV  set,  and  a  built-in  wall  desk. 
But,  Larry  smiles,  "when  we  entertain 
guests  (usually  doctors — they  are  a  won- 
derful gag  source),  we're  forever  broiling 
steaks  on  the  outdoor  barbecue." 

Larry  says  that,  given  a  free  moment, 
Doris  would  spend  it  first  with  Danny — 
and  second  in  trying  to  keep  the  house 
neat.  "Doris  has  to  pick  up  after  me.  She 
says  she  always  knows  where  I  am,  be- 
cause I  leave  a  trail  of  records  and  photo- 
graphic equipment  behind. 

"And  besides  being  a  wonderful  house- 
keeper," continues  Larry,  "Doris  is  the 
most  devoted  mother  in  the  world.  Though 
Danny's  not  quite  four,  he  has  a  .  tre- 
mendous vocabulary.  In  fact,  we  have  a 
game  we  play.  Every  afternoon,  when 
Doris  comes  in,  we  ask  Danny  what  new 
words  he's  learned  from  television. 

"Danny's  vocabulary  is  also  built  by 
Doris's  constant  reading  to  him.  And,  when 
she  leaves  for  work,  she  has  supplied 
Danny  with  a  stack  of  45  rpm  storybook 
records  to  play  on  his  own  machine.  Even 
at  four,  Danny  takes  good  care  of  the  rec- 
ords. He  has  about  sixty  and  has  only 
broken  two.  So  far,  Danny's  favorites  are 
'The  Bible  Tells  Me  So,'  by  Don  Cornell, 
and  a  copy  of  Tennessee  Ernie's  'Sixteen 
Tons'  which  Ernie  gave  to  Doris — Doris 
gave  to  Danny — and  which  he's  played  to 
death.  Doris  wanted  to  borrow  it  back  one 
night  for  some  guests,  but  Danny  said,  'No, 
it's  my  best  record,'  and  wouldn't  give  it 
up! 

"Doris  and  I  both  agree  that  Danny's  a 
ham.  He's  been  on  Ernie's  show  about  ten 
times,  because  my  parents  in  Chicago  keep 
writing  letters  asking,  'When  are  we  going 
to  see  Danny?'  So  Ernie  obliges  by  putting 
him  in  the  commercials,  and  Doris  uses 
him  as  the  main  prop  when  she  sings,  'It's 
So  Nice  To  Have  a  Man  Around  the 
House.'  .  .  .  When  she  is  finished,  Danny 
pipes  up  with  'How  about  that!'  He's  the 
only  one  in  the  Ernie  cast  I  know  of  who 
marches  off  stage  singing,  'Mickey  Mouse'! 
Yes,"  Larry  says  facetiously,  "Danny  wor- 
ries me.  I  didn't  get  that  way  until  I  was 
six." 

Doris  continues,  on  a  more  serious  note, 
"Some  days  just  don't  go  right  for  Danny 
— he  tramps  mud  through  the  house,  and 
brings  in  a  stray  cat  or  two.  Or  I'll  come 
home  from  work  to  find  the  spring  bulbs 
I  planted  last  weekend  dug  up  and  lying 
on  the  kitchen  table.  On  days  like  these, 
when  Danny  is  'bad' — that's  when  he 
needs  our  love,  and  that's  when  we  love 
him  most." 

Weekends,  after  her  daily  show,  Doris 
still  surrounds  herself  with  music.  Their 
hi-fi  is  going  constantly,  or  Danny's  rec- 
ord-player is  crooning  to  him  by  his  bed. 
Memories  of  her  own  early  childhood  in 
San  Antonio  come  flooding  back  when 
Doris  sees  her  own  son — so  much  like  her- 
self— tapping  his  little  four-year-old  foot 
in  rhythm  to  a  tune.  At  rare  moments  like 
these,  Doris  and  Danny  play  their  special 
game:  "Danny,  do  you  love  your  mother?" 

"Yes,"  says  Danny. 

"And  your  daddy  .  .  ." 

"Yes,"  says  Danny,  brown  eyes  smiling. 
"Do  you  and  Daddy  love  me?" 

"Oh,  yes!"  replies  Doris. 

Says  Danny,  "Well,  how  about  that!" 


BUY  U.  S.  SAVINGS  BONDS  AND  INVEST  IN  YOUR  FUTURE 


Whatfs  New  from  Coast  to  Coast 


{Continued  from  page  8) 


Heart  Belongs  to  Daddy."  So  much  for 
history.  This  coming  Sunday,  October  28th, 
Mary  Martin  and  Paul  Douglas  co-star  in 
the  great  comedy,  "Born  Yesterday."  Mary 
plays  the  sexy  ex-chorine,  Billie  Dawn. 
To  viewers  this  is  a  radical  contrast  to  her 
performance  as  Peter  Pan,  but  maybe  Pan 
is  a  better  clue  to  the  real  Mary  Martin. 
Last  year,  when  NBC  wanted  to  fete  Peter 
Pan  with  its  usual  cocktail  party,  Miss 
Martin  refused  to  attend — until  they  agreed 
on  only  ice  cream  sodas  and  milk  shakes. 

Two  men  who  will  never  meet:  Steve 
Allen  hits  the  sack  at  4  A.M. — Dave  Gar- 
roway  gets  up  at  4  A.M.  .  .  .  Two  men 
who  should  meet:  Bob  dimming-,  expects 
to  be  a  father  for  the  fifth  time — Eddie 
Fisher  for  the  first.  And  here's  the  stuff 
on  Eddie.  He's  postponed  his  November 
trip  to  New  York,  for  it's  the  middle  of 
November  that  Debbie  is  expecting.  If  it's 
a  girl,  Debbie  would  like  to  call  the  baby 
"Kathy";  a  boy,  "Kevin."  Eddie  says, 
"Maybe  we'll  just  call  it,  'Hey'." 

Real  romance  on  Valiant  Lady:  Assistant 
Director  John  Desmond  dates  Sue  Randall, 
who  plays  Diane  Emerson.  Or  maybe  it's 
Marion  Randall.  She  started  out  Sue  Ran- 
dall, her  real  name,  but  Equity  told  her 
someone  else  already  held  the  handle.  So 
Sue  had  to  use  her  middle  name,  Marion, 
but  she's  still  Sue  to  friends — Sweet  Sue 
to  John  Desmond.  .  .  .  Mrs.  Ernie  Kovacs 
(Edie  Adams)  gets  star  billing  in  the  new 
Broadway  musical,  "Lil  Abner."  Edie  plays 
darling  Daisy  Mae.  Says  Mr.  Edie  Adams 
(Ernie  Kovacs),  "Few  people  appreciate 
how  much  wonderful  talent  this  gal  has." 
.  .  .  Joni  James  continues  to  deny  there 
is  any  serious  romance  in  her  life.  .  .  . 
You'll  be  seeing  Margaret  Truman  ex- 
clusively on  NBC-TV  this  season.  She 
signed  a  year's  contract.  .  .  .  Groucho 
Marx  is  bitter  over  rumors  that  he  wears 
falsies — those  eyebrows  are  his  own. 

Love  &  Marriage:  Julie  and  Rory  La- 
Rosa  are  still  on  their  honeymoon.  Al- 
though married  last  April,  they  still  eat 
off  a  trunk  in  their  dining  room.  Why? 
Well,  wife  Rory,  who  travels  with  Julie, 
hasn't  had  time  to  shop,  but  she  has  been 
learning  to  cook.  Observed  a  friend,  "He's 
so  much  in  love  he  doesn't  know  what 
he's  eating  anyway."  .  .  .  And  For  People 
With  Ears:  RCA  Victor's  first  album  of 
Julie,  aptly  titled  "Julius  LaRosa,"  is  a 
work  of  joy.  Julie  swing-sings  such  fine 
standards  as  "Candy,"  "But  Not  for  Me," 
"If  I  Had  You,"  nine  others.  .  .  .  Herb 
Shriner  is  godfather  to  Randall  Crawford 
James,  son  of  Dennis.  Crawford  is  mom- 
my's maiden  name.  .  .  .  October  babies 
for  Gale  Storm,  Julie  Stevens  of  Helen 
Trent,  and  Mary  Stuart  of  Search  For  To- 
morrow. .  .  .  Ditto  stork  for  Marge  and 
Gower  Champion.  Then,  come  about  the 
end  of  November,  when  Marge  is  up  on 
her  toes  again,  the  Champs  go  into  re- 
hearsal for  a  weekly  TV  show  that  will  be 
live  three  weeks  and  on  film  the  fourth. 
The  show  is  posted  for  a  January  start  and 
Jack  Benny  is  to  be  one  of  its  godfathers. 
.  .  .  Jimmy  Kirkwood  of  Valiant  Lady  is 
readying  for  a  movie  with  Carol  Channing. 
.  .  .  Hollywood  Bulletin:  "Red  Skelton  is 
writing  the  first  fairy  tale  about  outer 
space."  Maybe  to  be  titled,  "With  Mother 
Goose  to  the  Moon." 

Predict  the  TV  love  of  the  year  will  be 
Ricky,  Jr.,  new  character  in  this  season's 
I  Love  Lucy.  Ricky,  Jr.  is  played  by  five- 
year-old  Richard  Keith,  whose  family 
name  is  Thibodeaux.  Richard  was  born  in 


Lafayette,  Louisiana,  where  his  father  sold 
insurance.  As  a  toddler,  Richard  had  a 
natural  affinity  for  drums.  Horace  Heidt 
was  so  impressed  by  the  lad's  drumming 
that  he  made  Richard  a  regular  on  his 
show.  But  it  turned  out  he  had  an  affinity 
for  acting,  too.  Two  hundred  kids  had  au- 
ditioned before  him,  but  Richard  won  the 
part  of  Ricky,  Jr.  In  private  life,  Richard 
has  a  younger  brother  and  sister.  Says 
his  father,  "Richard  eats  cereal  in  the 
morning,  gets  dirty  right  after  he's  dressed 
and  gets  into  an  occasional  fight."  Says  dad, 
"Richard  gets  away  with  just  so  much,  be- 
fore he  winds  up  with  a  spanking." 

You  can  reassure  your  kids  that  "Spin 
and  Marty"  will  be  back  with  MM  (Mickey 
Mouse)  later  in  the  season.  MM  has  be- 
come the  most  important  entertainment 
in  the  lives  of  kids  from  three  to  thirteen 
and  "Spin  and  Marty"  is  its  most  success- 
ful feature.  .  .  .  And  speaking  of  initials, 
there  is  WW,  who  makes  his  first  real  TV 
bid  on  choice  Friday  time  this  month. 
Walter  Winchell  will  do  a  variety  show 
and  to  this  he  is  no  stranger.  The  first 
dozen  years  of  his  working  life  were  spent 
in  vaudeville  with  such  as  Cantor  and 
Jessel.  When  Walter  turned  to  the  type- 
writer, his  love  of  show-biz  continued  not 
only  in  his  reporting  on  its  affairs  but  by 
participating  in  the  build-up  of  many  of 
our  greatest  entertainers — from  Ruth  Et- 
ting  to  Arthur  Godfrey.  About  his  new 
show,  he  says,  "All  I  promise  is  that  it 
will  be  good." 

Always  exciting  to  watch,  Barbara  Stan- 
wyck makes  a  rare  TV  appearance,  Oc- 
tober 10th,  on  ABC-TV's  Ford  Theater 
drama,  "Sudden  Silence."  .  .  .  Except  for 
video  guest  shots,  Martha  Raye  will  be 
pretty  busy  this  season  in  a  new  Broadway 
musical.  .  .  .  Did  you  know  that  Jackie 
Gleason  is  an  amateur  hypnotist?  .  .  . 
It  Was  Inevitable  Dept.:  Tarzan  will  be 
swinging  onto  your  antenna  after  the  first 
of  the  year  in  the  physique  of  Gordon 
Scott.  .  .  .  The  only  woman  mask-maker 
in  the  country  makes  those  disguises  for 
Masquerade  Party.  Kari  Hunt  puts  about 
a  hundred  hours  of  work  into  each  mask. 

And  speaking  of  the  impact  of  TV  (and 
sometimes  people  do  speak  of  it) ,  take 
the  case  of  handsome  actor  Jack  Lord, 
born  Joe  Ryan.  Well,  Jack  was  getting 
nowhere.  All  he  had  to  his  credit  was  a 
lead  in  the  Broadway  hit,  "Cat  on  a  Hot 
Tin  Roof,"  and  another  lead  in  "The  Trav- 
eling Lady."  He  had  made  a  few  movies, 
too,  like  "The  Court  Martial  of  Billy  Mitch- 
ell" and  the  currently-showing  film, 
"Vagabond  King."  The  producers  and  di- 
rectors and  the  critics  thought  he  was 
great,  but  the  public  was  playing  it  cosy. 
Until  this  summer.  He  played  a  blind  man 
on  Studio  One  in  July,  and  for  three  days 
his  telephone  and  that  of  the  show's  pro- 
ducer were  tied  up  with  inquiries  about 
him.  Hundreds  of  letters  came  in,  and  come 
fall  they  were  still  coming.  His  services 
are  now  sought  by  two  major  picture 
studios  and  he  will  be  nominated  for  the 
TV  Emmy  award.  In  private  life,  Jack 
is  wed  to  a  former  French  dress  designer. 

There  will  be  a  terrific  lot  of  new  shows 
coming  on  this  month:  Herb  Shriner's 
variety,  The  Most  Beautiful  Girl  In  The 
World;  Playhouse  90:  Zane  Grey  Theater; 
On  Trial  with  Joseph  Cotten ;  Dinah  Shore. 
.  .  .  These  are  some  of  them  and  October 
can  use  them  all  .  .  .  October  has  to  watch 
its  rating.  This  is  the  month  that  started 
out  in  eighth  place  and  slipped  to  tenth. 


32  to  40 

398. 

42  to  4  8  4.98 

Style  No.  225  -  LACY  DACEY  NYLON.  Lace 
print  flowers  front,  back  and  beautiful 
sleeves.  In  all  nylon  sheer  black  lace  print 
on  white. 


■  Please  rush  me  Lacy-Dacey  Nylon  in  Size 

O  Prepaid:  Enclose  full  payment,  postage  tree 
I    Q  COD    Enclose  25<  (or  each  item  with  order  to  cover  postage 
and   handling.      Pay  postman  amount  of  order. 

I  Name . — — . 

|  Address 

I  City 


2one_   State  „ 


YOU  DISCOVER 

how  to  earn  extra  money  in  spare  time  by 
writing  for  FREE  information :  Macfadden 
Publications,  205  E.  42  St.,  N.  Y.  17.  N.  Y. 


REWARD 


Bronchial  asthma  sufferers  are  rewarded  the 
moment  they  try  Dr.  R.  Schiffmann's  ASTHMA- 
DOR.  Soothing,  aromatic  fumes  ease  conges- 
tion, bring  grateful  comfort.  Try  Asthmador 
Cigarettes  — also  available  in  powder  or  pipe 
mix  — at  your  druggist's. 


ASTI 


ADOR 


Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 
New  Way  Without  Surgery 

Science  Finds  Healing  Substance  That 
Relieves  Pain — Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 

For  the  first  time  science  has  found  a 
new  healing  substance  with  the  astonishing 
ability  to  shrink  hemorrhoids  and  to  relieve 
pain  —  without  surgery. 

In  case  after  case,  while  gently  relieving 
pain,  actual  reduction  (shrinkage)  took 
place. 

Most  amazing  of  all  —  results  were  so 
thorough  that  sufferers  made  astonishing 
statements  like  "Piles  have  ceased  to  be  a 
problem!" 

The  secret  is  a  new  healing  substance 
(Bio-Dyne*  1  — discovery  of  a  world-famous 
research  institute. 

This  substance  is  now  available  in  sup- 
pository or  ointment  form  under  the  name 
Preparation  H.*  Ask  for  it  at  all  drug  count- 
ers—money back  guarantee.    *Beg.  u.  8.  P»t.  orr. 


97 


Sunday  in  England 


Alastair  took  Vivian  and  Cathleen  to  Soho,  to  hear  real  Cockney 
accents.  The  barrow  boys'  cry  translated:  "Apples,  a  pound,  pears!" 
And  the  fruits'  high  quality  was  even  more  eloquent  than  the  chant. 


Vivian  found  "the  Bobbies"  as  helpful  as  Alastair  predicted,  and 
relied  on  them  for  her  own  solo  sightseeing.  Below,  it  wouldn't  be 
London — if  all  three  hadn't  gathered  for  the  usual  "spot  of  tea"! 


98 


(Continued  from  page  32) 
success.  People  loved  Vivian."  Another 
vacationer  from  the  CBS  Radio  serial — 
Cathleen  Cordell  who  is  heard  as  Cora 
Harwood — was  also  in  a  whirl,  for,  while 
she's  American-born,  she  was  European- 
educated,  appeared  on  BBC,  and  had  many 
friends  to  see. 

The  vacation  was  Alastair's  first  trip 
home  in  five  years,  and  his  first  sight  of 
a  new  home.  "We  had  always  lived  in 
London,"  he  said,  "but  now  we  live  in 
Hampshire."  During  the  period  when 
Alastair  was  moving  about — he  saw  quite 
a  bit  of  the  world  before  settling  down  in 
New  York — his  father,  the  master  of  a 
merchant  liner,  had  retired.  Alastair  de- 
scribed the  new  location:  "Highcliffe  is  a 
very  old  village,  in  an  old  part  of  Eng- 
land. It  has  charming  old  white  houses 
and  is  really  a  picture-postcard  sort  of 
place,  for  the  horses,  which  run  wild  in 
the  near-by  New  Forest,  come  into  the 
town  and  saunter  down  the  main  street. 
All  traffic  must  stop  until  they  get  out 
of  the  way." 

For  Vivian,  who  is  a  native  New  Yorker, 
this  was  the  second  trip  to  Europe,  but 
her  first  visit  to  London.  Vacationing, 
she  had  "seen  America  first"  by  going  to 
Yellowstone,  and  had  spent  subsequent 
holidays  touring  the  Caribbean.  Last 
year,  she  went  to  Italy  and  fell  in  love 
with  it,  so  this  season  she  again  planned 
to  spend  a  week  in  Paris,  then  go  on  to 
Florence  and  Venice.  Alastair,  on  hear- 
ing her  itinerary,  protested — with  all  of 
Lord  Henry's  positiveness — "Surely  you 
can't  skip  London.  I'll  come  up  and  show 
you  around."  Later,  he  was  to  say,  as  do 
all  natives  who  entertain  out-of-town 
guests,  "It  was  an  education,  to  me,  too. 
A  Londoner,  like  a  New  Yorker,  just 
doesn't  bother  to  go  to  points  of  interest 
unless  he  has  a  guest  who  wants  to  see 
them." 

Their  stop  at  Buckingham  Palace  had, 
to  Vivian,  been  a  bit  disappointing.  The 
flag  flying  and  the  gates  open  indicated 
that  Her  Majesty  was  in  residence  and  an 
affair  of  state  was  in  progress.  She  said, 
"Crowds  lined  the  sidewalks,  twenty-five 
deep,  so  we  waited,  too,  hoping  for  a 
glimpse  of  Elizabeth,  but  we  never  saw 
her."  The  next  day,  however,  luck  was 
with  her.  With  friends,  she  was  driving 
down  the  street  when  a  police  officer 
asked  them  to  pull  over  to  the  curb.  "If 
you  don't,"  he  stated  pleasantly,  "you'll 
impede  Her  Majesty's  way  to  the  theater." 

"We  parked  and  stood  on  the  corner," 
says  Vivian,  "and  she  passed  within  ten 
feet  of  us.  There  was  no  crowd  to  block 
the  view.  She's  a  lovely,  beautiful  wo- 
man, much  prettier  than  her  pictures.  I 
was  thrilled  to  see  her." 

Commenting  on  Our  Gal  Sunday's  fear 
of  visiting  her  husband's  homeland,  Vi- 
vian said,  "I  don't  think  she  needs  to  wor- 
ry. I  didn't  find  the  English  people  cold; 
I  did  find  them  a  bit  more  reserved.  But, 
once  I  understood  this  was  just  a  more 
formal  code  of  manners,  I  found  they 
were  warm,  hospitable  and  charming.  Of 
all  the  places  I  visited,  I  had  my  best 
time  in  London." 


;  ,;' ::;  J 

T 

|  V  ' 

•  <•■■'.          * 

^■i 

l&$n 

■Rr 

a 

m 

r"  f 

Jr 

ME!  i 

1 

i      1? 

4 

"'.    ' 

' 

I 

! 

H  Hr   1 

K\   1 

m  f^t  ;;Jf^  |f|   | 

'    n£  ^L>J  H. 

«.       **\ 


V/k 


"I 


V] 


odess . . . 


Make  friends  with  W INS  1  wN 


R.  J.    REYNOLDS  TOBACCO   CO.,   WINSTON-SALEM,    N.   C. 


BE*** 


FINE" 


n£r 


Get  your  flavor  and  -filter,  too! 

No  cigarette  in  history  ever  made  so  many  friends  so  fast. 
Full,  rich  flavor  is  the  reason.  Yes,  and  Winston's  exclusive 
filter,  too !  This  finer  filter  works  so  effectively  the  flavor 
really  comes  through  —  so  you  can  enjoy  it.  Smoke  Winston, 
the  filter  cigarette  America  enjoys  most  of  all! 


Switch  to  WINSTON  Americas  best-selling,  best-tasting  filter  cigarette! 


RADIO 
MIRROR 


1  :J 


JADIO  MIRROR 


'$Fyhy&* 


\ 


W 


m 


BETTY   OAKES 
of  Valiant  Lady 


TEAL   AMES 
The  Edge  of  Night 


Ed  Sullivan 

id  Elvis  Presley 

• 

EXCLUSIVE! 

THE  GIRL 

WHO  GOT 

TO  PRESLEY 


I 


JS?,*«5ftfc 


If 


SHASTA 


wm:>w*<"'n>  n 


SHASTA     

CREAM  SHAMPOO 


Shasta  does  not  strip  away  nature's  ingredients  that  give 
hair  "body"!  Shasta  is  different;  a  luscious  cream  that  does 
not  scour  your  hair.  Because  it  cleans  so  gently  ...  it  actually 
guards  your  hair  against  fly-away  dryness;  leaves  it  soft,  soft, 
soft.  It's  sparked  with  lanolin;  lathers  in  any  kind  of  water; 
gives  your  hair  that  romantic  Shasta  sheen ! 
Now  you  can  shampoo,  then  comb  or  set  and  you're  all  set. 
No  more  first-day  "wild"  hair,  drooping  curls  or  flying  wisps. 
With  Shasta,  your  hair  behaves  the  right  way  right  away! 


N  E  W 


IV1UIVI 


CREAM 


The  doctor's  deodorant  discovery 
that  now  safely  stops  odor  24  hours  a  day 


Underarm  comparison  tests  made 
by  doctors  proved  a  deodorant  without 
M-3  stopped  odor  only  a  few  hours  — 
while  New  Mum  with  M-3  stopped 
odor  a  full  24  hours  ! 


You're  serene.  You're  sure  of  yourself.  You're  bandbox  perfect  from  the  skin  out. 

And  you  stay  that  way  night  and  dav  with  New  Mum  Cream. 

Because  New  Mum  now  contains  M-3  I  hexachlorophene)  which  clings  to 

your  skin  — keeps  on  stopping  perspiration  odor  24  hours  a  day. 

So  safe  you  can  use  it  daily  — won't  irritate  normal  skin  or  damage  fabrics. 


ANOTHER    FINE   PRODUCT  OF  BRISTOL-MYERS 


KINO  TO  YOUR   SKIN   AND  CLOTHES 


Mo'd 'be/ieve  /w& 
ever  eiwfarrQQsecf 
by '  P/tnp/es*/'' 


New!  Clearasil  Medication 

STARVES' 
PIMPLES 

SKIN-COLORED  .  .  .  hides  pimples  while  It  works. 

At  last !  Science  discovers  a  new-type  medi- 
cation especially  for  pimples,  that  really 
works.  In  skin  specialists'  tests  on  202 
patients,  9  out  of  every  10  cases  were 
completely  cleared  up  or  definitely  improved 
while  using  clearasil. 

CLEARASIL  WORKS  FAST 
TO  MAKE  PIMPLES  DISAPPEAR 


tlf7 


fW 


1 .  PENETRATES  PIMPLES  .  .  .  kera- 
tolytic  action  softens  and  dissolves 
affected  skin  tissue  .  .  .  permits 
medication  to  penetrate  down  into 
any  infected  area. 

2.  ISOLATES  PIMPLES  .  .  .  antiseptic 
action  of  this  new  type  medication 
stops  growth  of  bacteria  that  can 
cause  and  spread  pimples. 

3.  'STARVES'  PIMPLES  .  .  .  CLEAK- 
asil's  famous  dry-up  action 
'starves'  pimples  because  it  helps 
to  remove  the  oils  that  pimples 
'feed'  on. 

SKIN  CREAMS  CAN  'FEED'  PIMPLES 
CLEARASIL  'STARVES'  THEM 

Oil  in  pores  helps  pimples  grow  and  thrive.  So  oily 
skin  creams  can  actually  'feed'  pimples.  Only  an 
oil-absorbing  medication  . . .  clearasil,  helps  dry  up 
this  oil,  'starves'  pimples. 

'FLOATS  OUT'  BLACKHEADS 

clearasil's  penetrating  medical  action  softens  and 
loosens  blackheads  from  underneath,  so  they  'float 
out'  with  normal  washing.  So  why  suffer  the  misery 
of  pimples  or  blackheads !  clearasil  is  guaranteed 
to  work  for  you,  as  in  doctors'  teats,  or  money  back. 
Only  69$  at  all  drug  counters  (economy  size  98*). 


Largest-Selling  Pimple 
Medication  in  America  (including  Canada) 


TV 


DECEMBER,   1956 


RADIO 
MIRROR 

ATLANTIC    EDITION  • 


VOL.  47,  NO.  1 


Ann  Higginbotham,  Editorial  Director 
Ann  Mosher,  Editor  Jack  Zasorin,  Art  Director 

Teresa  Buxton,  Managing  Editor  Frances  Maly,  Associate  Art  Director 

Claire  Safran,  Associate  Editor  Joan  Clarke,  Art  Assistant 

Jan  Coble,  Assistant  Editor  Bud  Goode,  West  Coast  Editor 


PEOPLE  ON  THE  AIR 

What's  New  From  Coast  to  Coast by  Peter  Abbott  4 

The  Great  Big  "If  (Ed  Sullivan) by  Martin  Cohen  19 

All  of  a  Sudden  Love  (John  Conte) by  Pauline  Townsend  22 

Back  Home  Again  in  Indiana  (Betty  Oakes) by  Judith  Field  24 

The  Girl  Who  Got  to  Elvis  Presley by  Philip  Chapman  28 

Oh!  Susanna — Oh,  Baby!  (Gale  Storm) by  Bud  Goode  30 

My  Father,  Alfred  Hitchcock by  Pat  Hitchcock  32 

Faith  in  His  Fellow  Man  (Ralph  Story) by  Lilla  Anderson  44 

Mark  Saber — At  Home  (Donald  Gray) 46 

Little  Miss  Teal  Ames by  Mary  Temple  50 

This  Is  Nora  Drake  (picture  story  from  the  popular  daytime  drama)....  52 
Seven  Dolls  for  Seven  Daughters  (Name  That  Tune  winners) 

by  Helen  Bolstad  56 
TV  Radio  Mirror  Awards  for  1956-57 

(vote  for  your  favorite  stars  and  programs)  58 

FEATURES  IN  FULL  COLOR 

"A  Living  Doll"  (Betsy  Palmer) by  Gregory  Merwin  34 

Bill  Cullen:  The  Man  Who  Has  Everything by  Gladys  Hall  36 

Jeannie  With  the  Bright  Red  Hair  (Jeannie  Carson) 

by  June  Berryman  40 

To  Susan  With  Love  (Virginia  Dwyer) by  Frances  Kish  42 

YOUR  LOCAL  STATION 

"X"    Marks   His   Spot    (Mutual) 6 

Life  Is  a  Gambol  (WTTG,  WGMS) 8 

The  Loves  of  Pete  (WROW,  WCDA-WCDB) 12 

Say  Honest,  Phil    (WMGM) 16 

YOUR  SPECIAL  SERVICES 

Information  Booth 10 

TV  Radio  Mirror  Goes  to  the  Movies by  Janet  Graves  14 

A  Holiday  Message  to  Our  Readers by  Irving  S.  Manheimer     19B 

Beauty:  From  Lass  to  Lady  (Mary  Linn  Beller) 

by  Mary  Parker  Sherwood  60 

New  Designs  for  Living  (needlecraft  and  transfer  patterns) 70 

New  Patterns  for  You   (smart  wardrobe  suggestions) 72 

Can  I  Help  You? by  Joan  Davis  74 

Cover  photographs  of  Elvis  Presley  and  Ed  Sullivan  courtesy  of  CBS- 
TV.  Mr.  Presley  appeared  on  The  Ed  Sullivan  Show  on  October  28 
and  will  be  seen  in   Twentieth  Century-Fox's   "Love  Me   Tender." 


BUY  YOUR  3ANUARY  ISSUE  EARLY  •  ON  SALE  DECEMBER  4 


mmm  PUBLISHED       MONTHLY      by      Macfadden 

_*2___*       Publications,   Inc.,  New  York,   N.  Y. 

*     EXECUTIVE,      ADVERTISING      AND      EDI- 
v^TORIAL      OFFICES      at     205      East     42nd 
x     Street,  New  York,   N.  Y.   Editorial  Branch 
/ » Office:    6269    Selma    Ave.,    Hollywood    28, 
f £  Calif.    Irving    S.    Manheimer,     President; 
-  %•   Lee      Andrews,      Vice     President;      Meyer 
rOi|i'»        Dworkin,   Secretary  and  Treasurer.  Adver* 
using  offices   also  in  Chicago,    221   North 
LaSalle    Street,    and   San   Francisco. 

SUBSCRIPTION  RATES:  $3.00  one  year.  U.  S.  and 
Possessions  and  Canada.  $5.00  per  year  for  all  other 
countries. 

CHANGE  OF  ADDRESS:  6  weeks'  notice  essential. 
When  possible,  please  furnish  stencil  impression  ad- 
dress from  a  recent  issue.  Address  changes  can  be 
made  only  if  you  send  us  your  old,  as  well  as  your 
new  address.  Write  to  TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East 
42nd  Street,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 
MANUSCRIPTS:  All  manuscripts  will  be  carefully  con- 


sidered, but  publisher  cannot  be  responsible  for  loss  or 
damage.  It  Is  advisable  to  keep  a  duplicate  copy  for 
your  records.  Only  those  manuscripts  accompanied  by 
stamped,  self-addressed  return  envelopes  or  with  suffi- 
cient  return  postage  will  be  returned. 
FOREIGN  editions  handled  through  Macfadden  Publi- 
cations International  Corp.,  205  East  42nd  Street,  New 
York  17,  N.  Y.  Irving  S.  Manheimer,  President;  Doug- 
las   Lockhart,    Vice   President. 

RE-ENTERED  as  Second  Class  Matter,  June  28,  1954, 
at  the  Post  Office  at  New  York,  N.  Y.,  under  the  Act  of 
March  3,  1879.  Authorized  as  Second  Class  mail,  P.O. 
Dept.,  Ottawa,  Ont,,  Canada.  Copyright  1956  by  Mac- 
fadden Publications,  Inc.  All  rights  reserved  under  In- 
ternational Copyright  Convention.  All  rights  reserved 
under  Pan-American  Copyright  Convention.  Todos  de- 
rechos  reservados  segun  la  Convencion  Pan-Americana 
de  Propiedad  Literaria  y  Artistica.  Title  trademark 
registered  in  U.S.  Patent  Office.  Printed  in  U.  S.  A* 
by    Art    Color   Printing    Company. 

Member  of  the  TRUE  STORY  Women's  Group 


DONT  EVER 

SHAMPOO 
YOUR  HAIR 

without  putting  back  the  [ife  shampooing  takes  out. 
Restore  life,  luster,  manageability  instantly ! 


If  you  hate  to  shampoo  your  hair  because  it  flies  all  over 
your  head  and  looks  terrible  for  days,  why  don't  you  face 
up  to  the  facts? 

Every  shampoo  you  try  makes  your  hair  too  dry, 
doesn't  it? 

So  what  happens?  After  you  shampoo,  you  have  to  wait 
two  or  three  days  for  the  natural  beauty  oils  to  come  back. 
Then,  just  when  your  hair  begins  to  look  and  act  alive,  it's 

t^time  for  a  shampoo  again. 
Now  isn't  that  silly! 
Half  the  time  your  hair  is  so  dry  you  can't  do  a  thing  with  it. 
Simply  because  modern  shampoos  wash  all  the  beauty  oils 
out  of  your  hair  and  scalp ! 

But  you  aren't  the  only  one  who  has  this  problem.  Millions 
of  women  hate  to  shampoo  their  hair  for  exactly  this  same 
reason.  That's  why  Helene  Curtis  invented  suave  Hair- 
?  dressing.  And  look  what  it  does ! 

The  instant  you  finish  washing  and  drying  your  hair,  rub 
a  little  suave  over  your  palms,  and  stroke  through  your  hair 
thoroughly.  Then  brush  and  arrange  your  hair  .  .  .  and  look 
at  the  amazing  difference! 


Suddenly  your  hair  combs,  sets  and  arranges  like  magic! 
It's  manageable !  No  wild  wisps.  Dryness  is  gone ! 

A  miracle  has  happened! 

Your  hair  is  silky  soft,  bursting  with  highlights  .  ,  .  with 
the  prettiest,  healthiest-looking  glow  you  ever  saw ! 

And  it  stays  wonderfully  in  place,  without  the  slightest 
oily  look  or  feel! 

That's  the  miracle  of  Helene  Curtis'  beauty  discovery — 
greaseless  lanolin — now  in  new  suave  ...  a  hairdressing  so 
wonderful  that  it  makes  your  hair  soft,  beautiful,  radiant  and 
manageable  in  20  seconds  after  shampoo ! 

So  do  as  Helene  Curtis  tells  you 

"No  matter  if  you  are  16  or  60,  don't  ever  shampoo  your 
hair  again  without  using  suave  to  restore  the  beauty  oils 
you  just  washed  out.  Do  this,  and  I  promise  you  your  hair 
will  be  so  beautiful,  so  satin-soft,  so  eager  to  wave,  you'll 
get  compliments  galore!" 

Start  using  suave  today !  Choose  the  liquid  or  new  creme 
suave,  whichever  type  you  prefer.  Available  wherever  cos- 
metics are  sold. 


CopyrtaM  1955  H.CJ. 


HELENE  CURTIS 

uave 

HAIRDRESSING  &  CONDITIONER 


Choose  Liquid 
or  new  Creme 

594  and  $1 

(plus  tax) 


"Trademark 


Candy  watches   closely — and   views  with   alarm — as   Hal 
March  emcees  a  beauty  show. Teases  Hal,  it's  "rough  work." 


How  hi  the  fi?  The  Singing  Rage,  Miss  Patti 
Page,  is  head-in-the-clouds  over  a  new  album. 


Democrats    balked    when    Mickey    Braddock    of 
Circus    Boy    brought    his    elephant    to    Today. 


WHAT'S  NEW 


By  PETER  ABBOTT 

LOVE  &  MARRIAGE;  After  three  quarters 
of  a  year's  marriage  to  Hal  March,  wife 
Candy  reports  a  blissful  state.  "I 
always  knew  him  as  a  good,  dependable 
bachelor,  but  I  had  no  idea  just  how 
wonderful  he  would  be  with  kids." 
Candy  has  two  by  previous  marriage  to 
Mel  Torme  and  reports  Hal  has  taken  on 
all  chores  -  from  horseplay  to  disci- 
pline. She  says,  "I've  got  to  admit, 
though,  I'm  not  too  pleased  about  his 
new  show,  The  Most  Beautiful  Girl  In 
The  World.  Let's  face  it,  there  are 
women  who  have  little  respect  for  mar- 
riage. I'd  prefer  Hal  were  doing  the 
Ugliest  Girl  et  cetera."  Hal  grins  and 
says,  "I  worry  about  it,  too.  Being 
around  beautiful  girls  is  rough  work."! 

STOP  &  GO;  Mickey  Braddock,  who  plays 
title  role  in  Circus  Boy  series, 
visited  the  Garroway  show  with  elephant,} 
Bimbo.  Everyone  was  pleased  except  a 


i 


"Divorced"    from    Caesar,    Nanette    Fabray 
visited  home,  then  made  "spectacular"  plans. 


Sir  Lancelot,  alias  William   Russell,   met  wife  Balbina  in  a 
poetic  scene.    But  whither  chivalry  as  they  traded  blows? 


FROM  COAST  TO  COAST 


couple  of  kidding  Democrats  who  asked 
equal  time  for  a  donkey.  .  .  .  All  this 
fuss  about  Elvis  getting  50-grand  for 
four  shows  with  Sullivan,  when  Frankie- 
boy  gets  40  G's  for  one  show  with  Dinah. 
.  .  .  Jane  Rose,  who  plays  Ma  Dale  on 
Love  Of  Life,  was  in  Monaco,  but  not 
to  visit  with  the  Rainiers.  She  made  a 
film,  "Monte  Carlo,"  with  Marlene  Diet- 
rich. .  .  .  Betty  Russell,  typist  at 
Queen  For  A  Day  office,  has  cut  a 
record  on  Viv  label  entitled  "Gypsy 
Love."  It's  now  auditioning  at  major 
recording  companies. 

TWO  PATS  &  A  PEG;  Dazzling  Patti  Page 
bedazzled  herself  at  a  recording  ses- 
sion with  Pete  Rugolo's  brilliant  band. 
As  the  songs  were  played  back  she  gasped, 
"I  can't  believe  it 's'me.  "  And  when  an 
artist  like  Patti  is  so  enthusiastic 
about  her  own  work  you  know  it's  some- 
thing wonderful.  And  it  is.  It's  all  in 


an  Emarcy  album  titled,  "P-P  in  the 
Land  of  Hi  Fi."  .  .  .  And  your  toes  curl 
when  Peggy  Lee  sings  "The  Thrill  Is 
You. "  You  can  just  about  feel  her  breath 
on  your  neck.  So  great,  so  creative  is 
this  gal,  as  usual,  in  the  new  Decca 
session,  "Black  Coffee  With  Peggy  Lee." 
.  .  .  Pat  Boone,  three  times  a  pappy, 
was  worried  about  what  would  happen  to 
his  popularity  when  teen-age  fans 
discovered  he  had  a  family.  This  is 
what's  happening — the  kids  are  writing 
in  and  offering  to  baby-sit  for  free. 
But  wife  Shirley  is  glad  enough  to  just 
have  him  home  at  Leonia,  New  Jersey. 
Pat  is  so  busy.  He  is  still  at  Columbia 
University,  studying  to  teach,  and  his 
grades  are  so  high  that  he  will  probably 
make  Phi  Beta  Kappa.  He  gets  his  B.A. 
next  year  and  then  plans  to  work  on  his 
Master's.  "Playing  it  safe,"  he  says, 
"I  want  something  to  fall  back  on." 
(Continued  on  page  13) 


m^—^^m^—am-mmm 


X"  MARKS  HIS  SPOT 


Music  does  the  talking 
for  him  as  John  A .  Gambling 
carries  on  a  family  tradition  on 
WOR  and  the  Mutual  Network 


Alike?   Yes.   Different?   Yes  again.  John  A.  has  learned 
much  from  John  B.,  but  each  Gambling  is  an  individual. 


I  ike  father,  like  son — except  that  in  the  Gambling 
■  radio  dynasty,  father  is  an  early  bird,  son  is 
night  owl.    Between  them,   they've  got  birds   of  every 
feather  nocking  to  their  radios.  .  .  .  John  B.  Gambling  has 
been  on  the  air  for  thirty -two  years  of  morning  music, 
news,  weather,  conversation  and,  as  oldtimers  may 
remember,  exercise.    John  A.  Gambling  made  his  world 
debut  in  New  York,  on  February  5,  1930.    His  radio 
debut  came  four  years  later  on  his  dad's  show,  when  the 
younger  Gambling  recited  "The  Night  Before  Christmas" 
and  sang  "Away  in  a  Manger."   The  Christmas  visit 
became  an  annual  event,  then  was  supplemented  by 
scattered  appearances  throughout  the  year.    In  1953,  the 
two  Gamblings  started  appearing  as  a  team  on  all  the 
morning  shows.  Now  that  John  A.  is  filling  the  nights  with 
music  on  his  own  program,  he's  presented  his  father  with 
two  still  younger  Gamblings  to  take  his  place  on  those  an- 
nual Christmas  visits — his  son  John  R.,  age  six,  and  daugh- 
ter Anne,  age  four  and  called  "Missy."  ...  As  to  following 
in  a  famous  father's  footsteps,  John  A.  says:  "The  idea  is 
not  to  try  to  fill  the  shoes  of  your  father — in  this 
case  unfillable,  I  think — but  to  keep  your  own  shoes  as 
filled  as  possible."  .  .  .  John,  ordinarily  a  very  well-shod, 
personable  and  vocal  young  man,  does  this  by  keeping 
absolutely  mum  for  a  half -hour  at  a  time.  Music  does  his 
talking  for  him  on  Music  From  Studio  X,  heard  Monday 
through  Saturday  from  9  P.M.  to  1  A.M.  on  WOR  and  from 
10  P.M.  to  12: 45  A.M.  EST  on  the  Mutual  network.  When 
John  does  speak,  it's  briefly,  quietly  and  to  the  point.  During 
his  periods  of  silence,  he  keeps  busy  planning  more  of  the 
same,  "familiar"  music,  mostly  instrumental  and  midway 
between  the  over-lush  and  the  over-commercial.  .  .  . 
As  a  boy,  John  toyed  with  the  idea  of  becoming  a 
policeman    or    a    fireman    or    perhaps    a    doctor.     Mostly 
though,  he  was  fascinated  by  radio  and  he  and  his  wife 
Sally — originally  a  blind  date  for  a  friend  of  John's — 
have  placed  radios  in  every  room  of  their  colonial  house 
in  Manhasset,  Long  Island.   The  rest  of  the  furnishings 
were  found  on  safaris  to  New  England  and  Pennsylvania 
and  refinished  by  John,  whose  hobby  is  finding  new 
uses  for  old  antiques.  As  on  radio,  "The  key  is  good  taste." 


Looks  like  a  telephone,  but  actually  "Missy" 
is  listening  to  a  radio.  The  "busy  signal"  is, 
as  usual,  the  menfolk,  John  R.  and  John  A., 
waiting  for  the  womenfolk,  Missy  and  Sally. 


/dreamed 

I jolai/ed  chess  in  mtf 


orm  bra 


I'm  the  darling  of  the  chess-set.  Pawns,  knights,  even  kings  watch  my  every  move.  For  whether  I'm  the  White  Queen  or  the 
Black,  I  rule  the  board  in  my  Maidenf orm  bra.  The  dream  of  a  bra :  new  Concerto*  Wunderwire,  the  bra  with  the  deep, 
deep  dress-up  plunge.  Wired  beneath  the  cups  in  a  wonderful  "W"-shape  that  never  pinches  or  presses,  just  caresses. 
Purest  white  or  blackest  black  in  delicate  nylon  lace.  A,  B,  C  and  D  sizes ...  5.95.  *reg.  u.s.  pat.  off.  t»A,o£»™R«B««ssi£R£co.,i»c„«. 


.  Y.  16,  N.Y. 


LI 


IS  A  GA 


Art  gets  an  assist  from  girl  Friday  Dee  Norman  as  he  awards 
loot  on  the  daily  "Money  Calling"  portion  of  Lamb  Session. 


Comic  Danny  Kaye  wasn't  too  impressed  by  Art's  vocaliz- 
ing but,  like  all  Lamb  guests,  he'd  like  a  return  engagement. 


Washington's  Art  Lamb  is 
network  material  in 


WTTG-TV  and  WGMS  clothing 


At  ease  is  the  rule  for  guests,  be  they  politicos,  stars  or  just 
folks.    And  who  could  be  more  relaxed  than  Perry  Como? 


Good  causes  never  have  to  ask  Art  twice.    He's  emceed 
four  telethons  such  as  this  one  for  Muscular  Dystrophy. 


To  keep  the  wolf  from  his  door,  Art  Lamb  keeps  very 
busy.  Just  how  busy  adds  up  to  thirty  air-hours  a 
week,  with  Art  as  producer,  writer,  salesman  and  star. 
In  one  five-foot-eleven  package,  Art  combines  the 
smoothness  of  a  Garroway,  the  wit  of  a  Steve  Allen, 
and  the  naturalness  and  ease  of  a  Godfrey.  Withal, 
Art  is  no  man's  carbon  copy.  It's  just  that  his  wit, 
pace  and  all-around  showmanship  have  that  network 
label.  ...  On  Washington's  WTTG-TV,  Art  hosts 
Ladies  Be  Seated  Theater,  daily  from  2  to  3:30  P.M. 
The  film  fare  may  not  always  be  first-run,  but  Art's 
intermissions  and  commercials  are  entertaining  enough 
so  that  nobody  really  cares.  Afternoons  at  5,  Art  pre- 
sents Lamb  Session,  an  informal  variety  hour  of 
records,  community -conscious  activity  and  interviews. 
The  show  also  features  the  latest  news  of  Hollywood, 
radio,  TV  and  the  world-at-large,  weather  forecasts 
and  men's  fashions.     And,  on  WGMS  Radio,  there  is 

the  Art  Lamb  Show,  weekdays  from  6:30  to  9  A.M 

Though  this  schedule  means  starting  his  day  at  5  ayem, 
if  Art  had  it  all  to  do  over  again,  he  would.  He'd 
begin  by  being  born  in  Yonkers,  New  York.  His  first 
big  career  step  would  be  a  five-year  stint  in  the  Coast 
Guard.  For  it  was  then  that  the  regular  newscaster 
aboard  ship  was  taken  ill  and  Art  pinch-hit.  Encour- 
agement from  crew  and  officers  started  Art  off  on  his 
merry    way    through    Armed    Forces    Radio    Service. 


n 


Art  sings,  too,  as  in  this  "Lullaby  of  Broadway"  number. 
He's  a  one-man  organization — producer,  writer  and  star. 


Back  in  civvies  in  1945,  Art  joined  WEAM  in  Arling- 
ton, Virginia.  Next  port  of  call  was  Washington's 
WINX  and,  in  1948,  WTTG.  .  .  .  While  in  Arlington, 
Art  reluctantly  went  out  on  a  blind  date.  The  girl, 
Rita  Hubbarth,  was  an  eyeful.  Unfortunately,  she 
lived  in  Detroit  and  their  courtship  consisted  of  three 
evenings  out,  two  telephone  calls  and  six  letters.  When 
a  client  told  Art  he  had  an  apartment  for  him,  Art 
invited  Rita  to  share  it  as  his  wife.  His  sponsors  never 
knew  that,  when  Art  asked  for  more  samples,  he  was 
actually  taking  the  food  home.  .  .  .  Eventually,  the 
Lambs  prospered  and  began  to  raise  their  flock:  Jay, 
now  7,  Jill,  4,  and  Melodie  Patrice,  going  on  one.  They 
are  all  comfortably  ensconced  in  Fairfax,  Virginia,  in  a 
home  complete  wth  swimming  pool.  .  .  .  Then  there 
are  the  women  in  Art's  career.  For  indefinite  lengths 
of  time,  Art  has  had  many  sidekicks  or  girls  Friday  on 
his  show,  including  Pat  Priest,  Liz  Overton  and  Sandra 
Chandler.  Less  decorative  were  Jocko  the  chimpanzee 
and  Blondie  the  lioness.  .  .  .  Quick  of  wit,  Art  is 
always  conscious  of  the  fact  that  he  is  coming  into 
people's  homes.  Still,  his  audience  will  never  forget 
the  day  Denise  Darcel  was  Art's  guest.  Denise  took  a 
deep  breath  and  lo!  the  strap  of  her  dress  broke.  As 
calmly  as  Dave  Garroway  might  describe  an  atomic 
explosion,  Art  reached  over,  repaired  the  damage,  and 
the  show  went  on.     On — and  upwards — is  Art's  way. 


Thankful  for  many  things — including  that  blind  date — Art 
cherishes  such  moments  with  wife  Rita,  young  Jay  and  Jill. 


information  booth 


Look,  Ma,  He's  Dancing! 

We  would  appreciate  some  information 
on  our  favorite  TV  dancer,  talented  George 
Vosburgh. 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  M.F.T.,  Brooklyn,  N.Y. 

For  a  young  man  of  twenty-four,  George 
Vosburgh  has  managed  to  achieve  an 
unusually  varied  and  successful  career. 
Born  in  Albany,  New  York,  August  1, 
1932,  he  grew  up  in  Chatham,  dividing 
his  time  between  sports  and  dramatics 
.  .  .  and  displaying  considerable  skill  in 
both.  He  was  co-captain  of  his  high-school 
football  team,  and  played  on  four  All- 
Star  teams,  besides  doing  three  seasons 
of  semi-professional  baseball.  After  grad- 
uating in  1950,  he  came  to  New  York 
City  .  .  .  where  success  came  quickly  to 
him!  George  landed  a  job  in  "Gentlemen 
Prefer  Blondes";  then  had  a  featured 
dance  spot  in  the  revival  of  "Pal  Joey." 
For  the  next  three  years  he  danced  on  Ed 
Sullivan's  show,  in  addition  to  other  TV 
programs.  .  .  .  Back  on  Broadway,  George 
was  featured  in  "Wish  You  Were  Here" 
and  "John  Murray  Anderson's  Almanac." 
In  September  of  1954,  he  got  what  he 
considers  one  of  his  biggest  breaks  when 
he  joined  the  Hit  Parade  Dancers.  "Your 
Hit  Parade  is  the  kind  of  program  every 
dancer  wants  to  appear  on,"  George  ex- 
plains. "You  get  a  chance  to  do  nearly 
all  types  of  things  .  .  .  it's  quite  a  challenge 
and  a  wonderful  opportunity."  He  was  a 
regular  member  of  the  Hit  Parade  cast 
for  two  seasons,  and  did  two  "Thanks- 
giving spectaculars"  besides — playing  the 
Nordic  prince  in  last  year's  production. 
.  .  .  George  is  a  bachelor,  lives  in  a 
Manhattan  apartment  and,  in  between  re- 
hearsals and  shows,  takes  time  off  for 
his  favorite  hobbies  —  skiing  in  winter, 
skin  diving  and  aqua-lung  diving  in  the 
summer  months.  ...  He  has  recently  been 


10 


Irish  heritage,  English  marriage,  and 
fame    in    America    for    Bernadefte. 


Always  on  the   move,    George   Vos- 
burgh likes  dancing,  skiing,  or  diving. 

working  as  an  associate  director  on  two 
new  TV  programs,  The  Most  Beautiful 
Girl  In  The  World  and  Varsity,  U.S.A. 
He's  quite  interested  in  the  production 
angle  of  show  business.  "I've  also  been 
busy  with  a  new  film  process  called  'Cine- 
miracle,'  "  George  adds,  "which  should  go 
into  full  production  this  fall."  George 
has  brown  hair,  brown  eyes,  stands  five 
feet  eleven  inches,  weighs  in  at  170 
pounds.  With  his  friendly  smile,  dancer's 
grace,  and  big  fan  following,  this  fellow 
bears  watching  ...  he  looks  like  a  winner! 

Irish  Charmer 

/  would  like  to  know  more  about  Ber- 
nadette  O'Farrell  who  plays  Maid  Marian 
on  the  Robin  Hood  TV  series. 

D.M.,   Cottage   Grove,   Ore. 

Maid  Marian  isn't  exactly  a  new  role 
for  Bernadette  O'Farrell.  As  a  child  in 
Birr,  County  Offaly,  Ireland,  she  was 
frequently  cast  as  Robin's  true  love  in  the 
neighborhood  games  of  Sherwood  Forest. 
.  .  .  Bernadette  was  educated  at  the 
Convent  of  the  Sacred  Heart  in  Rocrea, 
Tipperary.  She  first  wanted  to  be  a  dancer 
—  even  studied  ballet  diligently  —  then 
switched  to  secretarial  work.  Her  first 
job  was  with  a  Dublin  firm  of  lawyers  .  .  . 
and  while  working  there  she  chanced  to 
meet  a  theatrical  agent  who  had  been  a 
friend  of  Bernadette's  mother,  a  former 
actress  herself.  The  agent  convinced  Ber- 
nadette she  should  follow  in  the  family 
footsteps.  .  .  .  Through  Sir  Carol  Reed, 
she  met  producers  Frank  Launder  and 
Sidney  Gilliat,  and  played  a  small  but 
important  role  in  their  film,  "Captain 
Boycott."  The  J.  Arthur  Rank  movie 
organization  immediately  made  her  an 
offer  .  .  .  which  she  turned  down  because 
she  felt  she  needed  more  experience.  After 
studying  with  the  Liverpool  Repertory 
Company    and   the    Lowestoft    group,    she 


felt  prepared  to  accept  professional  parts. 
Her  appearance  on  a  television  drama, 
"The  Romantic  Young  Lady,"  made  her 
an  overnight  sensation  in  Britain.  Launder 
and  Gilliat  contacted  her  again,  and 
offered  her  a  contract  .  .  .  which  in  the 
case  of  Frank  Launder  became  very  long 
term,  since  she  eventually  became  his 
wife.  They  have  two  small  daughters,  and 
live  in  an  historic  old  house  at  Radnage 
Bottom  Farm,  once  the  site  of  Prince 
John's  hunting  lodge.  Chestnut-haired, 
green-eyed,  twenty-nine  years  old,  this 
colleen  is  popular  with  cast  and  crew.  She 
is  often  called  on  to  help  with  the  nu- 
merous animals  used  in  the  Robin  Hood 
adventure  series.  Soothing  savage  beasts, 
acting,  or  playing  her  favorite  part  of  wife 
and  mother,  Bernadette's  Irish  charm  can 
be  depended  on  to  do  the  job. 

Tee-ing  Off 

Lawrence  Welk,  an  enthusiastic  golfer 
as  well  as  a  fine  musician,  distributes 
copies  of  the  following  among  his  friends: 

What  Golf  Has  Taught  Me— About 
Life:  Golf  is  more  than  a  Game.  It  is  a 
Philosophy.  Its  basic  rules  not  only  make 
for  a  better  score- — they  make  for  a  better 
way  of  living. 

1.  Study  the  course.  Heed  the  advice  of 
those  who  have  played  there  before  you. 

2.  Keep  your  head  down.  Concentrate 
on  what  you  are  doing. 

3.  Hit  straight  and  clean.  The  shortest 
distance  from  tee  to  green  is  a  straight 
line. 

4.  Relax.  Avoid  pressure.  Play  each  shot 
with   confidence   in   your   own   ability. 

5.  Be  courteous.  Remember — the  other 
fellow  is  trying  to  make  a  good  score,  too. 

6.  Avoid  traps.  They  are  always  lying 
in   wait  for  you. 

7.  The  most  important  shot  is  the  one 
you  are  about  to  make.  Play  the  game 
one  stroke  at  a  time. 

8.  Enthusiasm  for  the  game  assures  you 
maximum   enjoyment — and   a   good   score. 

9.  Be  content  with  your  "lie"  and  make 
the  most  of  it.  A  griper  is  never  welcome. 

10.  Observe  the  Rules  of  the  Game. 


Raconteur  Rusty 

Could    you    please    give    me    some    in 

formation  about  Rusty  Hamer,  who  plays 

the  son,  Rusty,  on  Make  Room  For  Daddy. 

M.  M.,  Topeka,  Kansas 


After  being  "son"  to  Danny  Thomas  for 
three  successful  years  on  TV,  young  Mr. 
Hamer  is  branching  out  into  movies.  He 
will  appear  with  Bud  Abbott  and  Lou 
Costello  in  their  new  film,  "Dance  With 
Me,  Henry,"  a  Bob  Goldstein  production 
to  be  released  through  United  Artists. 
.  .  .  And  Rusty  certainly  won't  have  any 
trouble  learning  or  retaining  his  lines. 
Since  the  age  of  three,  he's  possessed  an 
unusually  large  vocabulary  and  a  fantastic 
ability  to  memorize.  He  became  a  popular 


New  acting  combination  for  a  movie: 
Lou  Costello  and  TV's  Rusty  Hamer. 


junior  raconteur  at  the  age  of  five,  retell- 
ing stories  for  various  community  group 
programs.  .  .  .  Rusty  was  born  February 
15,  1947,  in  Tenafly,  New  Jersey,  the  son 
of  Dorothy  and  the  late  Arthur  W.  Hamer, 
both  amateur  actors  themselves.  They 
never  made  an  effort  to  promote  their 
children,  but  their  interest  in  the  local 
little-theater,  nevertheless,  meant  amateur, 
and  eventually  professional,  theatrical 
work  for  their  sons.  .  .  .  Now  in  the  sixth 
grade,  Rusty  attends  school  on  the  set, 
makes  top  grades.  He  and  his  mother  and 
brothers  Walter,  17,  and  John,  11,  live  in 
Santa  Monica.  An  accomplished  reader, 
Rusty  handles  anything  "cold"  .  .  .  his 
photographic  mind  enables  him  to  mem- 
orize a  complete  script.  It  also  helps  the 
other  members  of  the  cast,  who  are  often 
prompted  by  Rusty's  cueing! 

Calling  All  Fans 

The  following  fan  clubs  invite  new 
members.  It  you  are  interested,  write  to 
address  given — not  to  TV  Radio  Mirror. 

Carol  Richards  Fan  Club,  c/o  Ruth  Ann 
DeCosta,  130  M.  St.,  South  Boston,  Mass. 

Clint  Walker  Fan  Club,  c/o  Barbara 
Arrow,  11813  Larimore  Rd.,  St.  Louis,  Mo. 

Robin  Morgan  Fan  Club,  c/o  Thomas 
Jurka,  Meadow  Motel,  Rt.  6,  Clarksville, 
Tenn. 


FOR  YOUR  INFORMATION— If  there's 
something  you  want  to  know  about  radio 
and  television,  write  to  Information  Booth, 
TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East  42nd  St.,  New 
York  17,  N.  Y.  We'll  answer,  if  we  can, 
provided  your  question  is  of  general  inter- 
est. Answers  will  appear  in  this  column — 
but  be  sure  to  attach  this  box  to  your 
letter,  and  specify  whether  your  question 
concerns  radio  or  TV. 


Act  Now  And  You 
Receive  4  Extra  Issues 
On  This  Special  Offer! 

Now  you  can  subscribe  for  TV  Radio  Mirror  at  a  special  rate  and 
receive  16  exciting  issues  for  only  $3.00.  Thousands  of  enthusiastic 
readers  regularly  pay  the  same  price  for  12  issues.  If  you  act  at  once 
you  will  receive  4  EXTRA  issues — 16  in  all — for  only  $3.00,  saving 
you  $1.00  over  the  newsstand  price. 

TV  Radio  Mirror  brings  you  the  very  best  in  radio  and  television 
entertainment.  Every  issue  is  jam-packed  with  exciting  articles  and 
features.  You'll  read  intimate,  inside  stories  about  the  interesting 
people  and  programs  on  radio  and  television.  And  you'll  get  valu- 
able advance  listings  of  programs  to  come. 

So  mail  the  coupon  in  now  while  this  special  money-saving  offer 
is  in  effect.  You'll  get  16  big  issues  of  TV  Radio  Mirror  for  only 
$3.00,  guaranteeing  you  a  whale  of  a  lot  of  pleasure. 

SAVE  $1.00  UNDER  NEWSSTAND  PRICES! 


-MAIL  THIS  COUPON  TODAY , 


Mail  to:  TV  Radio  Mirror,  Dept.  TV  12-56 

205  East  42  St.,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 

Yes!  Enter  my  subscription  at  once.  Send  me  the 
next  16  months  of  TV  Radio  Mirror  for  only  $3, 
saving  me  $1  under  newsstand  prices.  I  enclose 
$3  as  payment. 


Name    . 

Address 
City.... 


(Please     Print) 


Zone. . . .  State. 


11 


the   I- 


Four  loves  has  Albany's 

Pete  Dreyer — and  two  careers 

as  WKOWs  music  man 

and  WCDA-WCDB's  weather  man 


There's  a  song  in  Pete's  heart — for  Gary  Adam  and 
Trudy,  for  radio  and  television.  But,  he  admits,  "I 
couldn't  carry  a  tune  if  they  put  it  on  my  back." 


1 


12 


Some  men  have  trouble  with  triangles.  As  for  Pete 
Dreyer.  there  are  no  less  than  four  objects  of  his 
affections — and  no  trouble  at  all.  .  .  .  This  lean 
and  likeable  guy  has  been  flirting  with  radio  since 
his  kindergarten  days  on  Long  Island,  when  his  voice 
failed  to  go  through  the  usual  changes.  "Every  time 
I  whispered,  my  voice  x-esounded  around  the  room," 
Pete  remembers,  "and  my  fondest  memory  of  my 
kindergarten  teacher  lingers  in  the  words,  'Peter, 
shut  up!'  "  The  affair  suffered  a  setback  when  Pete  got 
his  first  job  in  Louisiana.  "Get  out  of  radio,  Dreyer, 
you'll  never  make  it,"  his  boss  said  as  he  fired  Pete. 
.  .  .  Currently,  though,  it's  blossoming  on  Station 
WROW  in  Albany,  where  Pete's  the  deejay  on  Capitol 
Showcase.  Monday  through  Saturday  from  3:30  to 
6  P.M.,  Pete  spins  the  newest  in  music,  and  his 
listeners  select  the  hits  of  tomorrow,  winning  record 
albums  if  their  ratings  of  the  new  tunes  come  closest  to 
the  ratings  in  the  trade  papers.  Music  is  a  sideline — 
or  infatuation.  In  high  school,  Pete  led  his  own 
small  combo.  "I  was  the  living  proof,"  he  grins,  "that 
you  didn't  need  talent — -just  nerve."  ...  A  new  love, 
television,  is  now  co-existing  with  radio.  Just  this 
fall,  Pete  launched  his  first  video  show,  Weather 
Roundup,  seen  weekdays  at  7:10  P.M.  on  WCDA- 
WCDB.  .  .  .  Both  these  loves  help  to  support  a  more 
romantic  one  that  began  at  a  neighborhood  dance. 
Pete  was  trying  to  interest  his  best  friend  in  a  new 
girl.  The  Mend  finally  danced  with  Trudy.  "But 
the  last  waltz  was  mine,"  says  Pete,  who  promptly 
two-stepped  Trudy  down  the  aisle.  .  .  .  Now,  after 
a  series  of  furnished  apartments,  they  are  living 
in  Loudon  Arms,  a  garden  apartment  outside  Albany. 
Says  Pete,  "We  really  have  a  feeling  of  belonging 
when  we  sit  on  our  own  furniture.  We  call  it  our 
castle.  It's  really  home."  .  .  .  And  fourth,  but  not 
least,  Pete  loves  his  infant  son,  Gary  Adam,  in  spite  of — 
or  because  of — the  fact  that  he's  "a  real,  genuine 
ham  and  continually  upstages  me."  Pete  himself  under- 
plays the  star  role.  "Every  show  has  to  be  better  than 
the  last  or  I'm  not  satisfied.  I  thank  the  lucky  stars  for 
the  breaks  that  have  come  my  way.  A  pet  phrase 
sums  it  up:  For  the  grace  of  God  and  a  deep  voice  .  .  ." 


WHAT'S   NEW 

(Continued  from   page  5) 


Thrice  a  pappy,   Pat  Boone  has 
teenagers    offering    to    baby-sit. 


Odds  are  he'll  never  teach,  for  Pat's  star- 
dom seems  assured.  His  latest  Dot  album, 
"Howdy,"  is  getting  rave  reviews  and  de- 
servedly. There's  nothing  tricky  about  his 
singing.  His  voice  is  sweet  and  natural, 
very  reminiscent  of  early  Crosby.  And, 
besides  recording  and  school,  Pat  plays 
club  dates  on  weekends  and  continues  to 
be  one  of  Godfrey's  favorites  and  appears 
regularly  with  Arthur. 

Yes,  Yes,  Nanette:  There's  room  and 
time  enough  on  TV  for  Janet  Blair  and 
Nanette  Fabray,  and  Nan  has  been  sorely 
missed.  November  first,  she  returns  to  TV 
with  Jack  Benny  on  Shower  Of  Stars. 
On  November  24th,  she  stars  in  the  spec, 
"High  Button  Shoes."  And  what  has  she 
been  doing  since  her  last  Caesar  show? 
Early  fall,  she  visited  the  family's  alfalfa 
ranch  in  California,  but  most  of  the  time 
she  was  negotiating  new  contracts  and 
had  to  sit  tight  in  Manhattan,  where  she 
lives  in  an  apartment  with  her  dachshund 
companion,  Rover.  There  she  caught  up 
on  housekeeping  and  finished  decorating 
in  a  mixture  of  contemporary  and  Cali- 
fornia mission.  Then  she  played  hostess 
to  a  niece  and  nephew  from  out  of  town. 
Took  them  sightseeing  throughout  New 
York  and  Washington,  D.  C.  But  now 
she's  back  to  work,  and  "High  Button 
Shoes"  promises  to  be  the  event  of  the 
new  season.  It  is  the  same  musical  that 
made  her.  She  plays  the  femme  lead  again 
— dancing,  singing,  whistling  (the  wildest 
whistle  you've  ever  heard)  and  she's 
wonderful.  Don't  miss  it. 

Love  At  First  Fight:  William  Russell, 
British  star  of  Adventures  Of  Sir  Lance- 
lot, is  married  to  fiery  French  actress 
Balbina.  They  met  on  a  Mediterranean 
cruise.  Balbina,  a  beauty  queen,  was  a 
dream  in  an  original  Christian  Dior.  Bill 
asked  her  to  jitterbug  and  they  were  so 
good  the  floor  cleared  for  them.  But  he 
stepped  on  her  Dior  and  the  front  panel 
tore  out.  She  screamed  and  slapped  his 
face.  He  grunted  and  slapped  back.  Says 
he,  "We  knew  immediately  that  we  were 
in  love." 

More  Fashion:  Open  the  closet  and  you 
find  sequined  gowns  and  such,  but  that's 
for  professional  use  only.  Usually,  you 
find  June  Christy  in  slacks  and  shirt. 
In  Capitol's  "The  Misty  Miss  Christy," 
you'll  find  her  in  songs  meant  for  a  full 
(Continued  on  page  64) 


NEW 


Star 
Candids 


TA8   HUNTER 


HO*** 


We've  added  some  brand  new  stars  and  brand  new 
pictures.  Check  the  list  below  for  your  favorites.  All 

handsome  4x5  photos,  on  glossy  stock,  just  right 
for  framing.  Send  your  order  today. 


CANDIDS 


19. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
25. 


1.  Lana  Turner 

2.  Betty  Grable 

3.  Ava  Gardner 

5.  Alan  Ladd 

6.  Tyrone  Power 

7.  Gregory  Peck 
9.  Esther  Williams 

11.  Elizabeth  Taylor 

14.  Cornel  Wilde 

15.  Frank  Sinatra 
18.  Rory  Calhoun 

,  Peter  Lawford 
Bob  Mitchum 
Burt  Lancaster 
Bing  Crosby 
Dale  Evans 
27.  June  Allyson 

33.  Gene  Autry 

34.  Roy  Rogers 

35.  Sunset  Carson 

50.  Diana  Lynn 

51.  Doris  Day 

52.  Montgomery  Clift 

53.  Richard  Widmark 
56.  Perry  Corao 
57.BillHolden 

66.  Gordon  MacRae 

67.  Ann  Blyth 

68.  Jeanne  Crain 

69.  Jane  Russell 

74.  John  Wayne 

75.  Yvonne  de  Carlo 
78.  Audie  Murphy 
84.  Janet  Leigh 

86.  Farley  Granger 

91.  John  Derek 

92.  Guy  Madison 
94.  Mario  Lanza 
97.  Kirk  Douglas 


103.  Scott  Brady 

105.  Vic  Damone 

106.  Shelley  Winters 

107.  Richard  Todd 

109.  Dean  Martin 

110.  Jerry  Lewis 
112.  Susan  Hay  ward 
117.  Terry  Moore 
121.  Tony  Curtis 
124.  Gail  Davis 

127.  Piper  Laurie 

128.  Debbie  Reynolds 

135.  Jeff  Chandler 

1 36.  Rock  Hudson 

137.  Stewart  Granger 

139.  Debra  Paget 

140.  Dale  Robertson 

141.  Marilyn  Monroe 

142.  Leslie  Caron 

143.  Pier  Angeli 

144.  Mitzi  Gaynor 

145.  Marlon  Brando 

146.  Aldo  Ray 

147.  Tab  Hunter 

148.  Robert  Wagner 

149.  Russ  Tamblyn 

150.  Jeff  Hunter 

152.  Marge  and  Gow- 

er  Champion 

153.  Fernando  Lamas 
161.  Lori  Nelson 

174.  Rita  Gam 

175.  Charlton  Heston 

176.  Steve  Cochran 

177.  Richard  Burton 

179.  Julius  La  Rosa 

180.  Lucille  Ball 
182.  Jack  Webb 
185.  Richard  Egan 


187. 
190. 
191. 
192. 
194. 
198. 
202. 
205. 
207. 
209. 
211. 
212. 
213. 
214. 
215. 
216. 
217. 
218. 
219. 
220. 
221. 
222. 
223. 
224. 


Jeff  Richards 
Pat  Crowley 
Robert  Taylor 
Jean  Simmons 
Audrey  Hepburn 
Gale  Storm 
George  Nader 
Ann  Sothern 
Eddie  Fisher 
Liberace 
Bob  Francis 
Grace  Kelly 
James  Dean 
Sheree  North 
Kim  Novak 
Richard  Davalos 
Julie  Adams 
Eva  Marie  Saint 
Natalie  Wood 
Dewey  Martin 
Joan  Collins 
Jayne  Mansfield 
Sal  Mineo 
Shirley  Jones 


NATALIE    WOOD 


225.  Elvis  Presley 

226.  Victoria  Shaw 

227.  Tony  Perkins 

228.  Clint  Walker 

229.  Pat  Boone 

230.  Paul  Newman 

231.  Don  Murray 

232.  Don  Cherry 

233.  Pat  Wayne 

234.  Carroll  Baker 

235.  Anita  EkHerg 

236.  Corey  Allen 

237.  Dana  Wynter 

238.  Diana  Dors 

239.  Judy  Busch 

240.  Patti  Page 

241.  Lawrence  Welk 

242.  Alice  Lon 
243-  Larry  Dean 

244.  Buddy  Merrill 

245.  Hugh  O'Brian 

246.  Jim  Arness 

247.  Sanford  Clark 


FILL    IN    AND    MAIL 
COUPON  TODAY! 


WORLD  WIDE,   DEPT.  WG-12-56 
112    Main   St.,    Ossining,    N.   Y. 

I   enclose   $ for    candid 

pictures  of  my  favorite  stars  and  have  circled 
the  numbers  of  the  ones  you  are  to  send  me 
by  return   mail. 


NAME 

STREET. 

CITY... 


ZONE STATE 

Fill   out   and    mail   coupon   today.   Send   cash 
or  money  order.  12  pictures  for  $1 ;  6  for  50c. 


13 


Loving  parents  Dorothy  McSuire  and  Gary  Cooper  understand  Anthony  Perkins'  problem. 


TV, 


RADIO 
MIRROR 


*K 


TV  favorites  on 

your  theater  screen 

By  JANET  GRAVES 
Friendly  Persuasion 

ALLIED  ARTISTS,  DE  LUXE  COLOR 

Even  against  such  movie-wise  competition  as 
Gary  Cooper  and  Dorothy  McGuire,  two 
young  TV  players  hold  their  own  here.  Every 
fan  of  TV  dramas  will  recognize  Anthony 
Perkins,  now  Hollywood's  hottest  new  actor. 
Equally  familiar  is  the  winsome  face  of 
Phyllis  Love.  Tony  and  Phyllis,  along  with 
little  Richard  Eyer,  play  the  children  of 
Gary  and  Dorothy,  Indiana  farm  couple  of 
Civil  War  days.  These  times  try  the  religious 
convictions  of  the  family,  for  they  belong 
to  the  peace-loving  Society  of  Friends 
(Quakers).  Phyllis  has  a  sweetheart  in  the 
Union  Army;  Tony  must  decide  whether  to 
take  up  arms  as  the  other  young  men  do. 
But  most  of  the  picture  is  filled  with  gentle 
humor,  and  there  are  snatches  of  music,  in- 
cluding the  title  song,  sung  on  the  sound 
track  by  the  fast-rising  Pat  Boone.  It's  a 
friendly  movie  indeed,  with  a  quiet  charm 
that  is  rare  and  refreshing. 


The  Opposite  Sex 

m-c-m;  cinemascope,  METROCOLOR 

The  ladies  naturally  have  the  edge  in  this 
bouncing,  lavish  musical  version  of  "The 
Women."  They  range  in  type  from  house- 
wife June  Allyson  to  sensible  career  woman 
Ann  Sheridan  to  man-eating  show-girl  Joan 
Collins.  But  a  couple  of  males  do  get  their 
innings.  There's  Jeff  Richards,  singing  cow- 
hand who  devastates  the  about-to-be  divor- 
cees of  Nevada.  As  June's  husband,  lured 
astray  by  Joan,  there's  Leslie  Nielsen.  A  star 
on  Canadian  TV,  Leslie  also  made  his  mark 
in  New  York,  especially  when  he  stepped  in 
as  substitute  lead  in  a  Robert  Montgomery 
Presents  show,  to  give  an  assured,  line-perfect 
performance  on  barely  twenty-four  hours' 
notice. 


Cha-Cha-Cha-Boom ! 

COLUMBIA 

Favored  for  TV  guest  shots,  a  top  seller  on 
records,  Perez  Prado  spreads  Latin  rhythms 
all  over  this  amiable  musical.  Also  heard 
from  is  the  Mary  Kaye  Trio,  while  Sylvia 
Lewis  and  Dante  De  Paulo  do  sizzling  dance 
numbers.  Story?  Promoter  Steve  Dunne 
wants  to  start  his  own  record  company,  to 
defeat  Alix  Talton,  his  rival  (and  best  girl). 
So  he  imports  Prado  from  Cuba,  and  the  beat 
gets  going. 


At  Your   Neighborhood   Theaters 

The  Best  Things  in  Life  Are  Free  (20th; 
CinemaScope,  De  Luxe  Color)  ;  In  breezy 
style,  Gordon  MacRae  joins  Ernest  Borgnine 
and  Dan  Dailey  to  present  the  story  of  song- 
writers De  Sylva,  Brown  and  Henderson.  Pert 
in    1920's   costumes,    Sheree    North    co-stars. 

Tea  and  Sympathy  (M-G-M;  Cinema- 
Scope,  Metrocolor)  ;  Adult  treatment  of  a 
delicate  subject.  Often  starred  in  drama  on 
TV,  John  Kerr's  excellent  as  a  college  stu- 
dent whose  masculinity  is  questioned.  Deb- 
orah Kerr  gives  him  mature  sympathy,  as 
an  instructor's  tender-hearted  wife. 

Attack!  (U.A.)  :  Strong  fare  for  grownups. 
A  striking  World  War  II  film  contrasts  furi- 
ous courage  (Jack  Palance's)  with  abject 
cowardice  (Eddie  Albert's).  There's  equally 
fine  supporting  work  by  Buddy  Ebsen  (Crock- 
ett's pal)  and  newcomer  William  Smithers, 
also  with  TV  training. 

The  Bad  Seed  (Warners) :  This  one's  not 
for  the  kiddies,  either,  though  it's  about  a 
child.  Pretty  little  Patty  McCormack  is  the 
brat  capable  of  murder;  Nancy  Kelly,  her 
distraught  mother;  Evelyn  Varden,  their 
fluttery  landlady. 


Showing  this  month 


For  your  convenience  in  selecting  your 
favorite  movies  from  those  shown  on  the 
TV  screen  in  November,  we  give  you  these 
capsule  reviews.  This  will  be  a  continuing 
feature  in  TV  Radio  Mirror. 

ACT  OF  LOVE  (U.A.) :  Wistful  romance 
of  World  War  II.  Lonely  GI  Kirk  Douglas 
has  an  affair  with  Dany  Robin,  homeless 
French  girl,  and  the  adventure  turns  seri- 
ous.  Robert  Strauss  is  Kirk's  buddy. 

BILL  OF  DIVORCEMENT  (RKO): 
Memorable  acting  by  Katharine  Hepburn 
and  the  late  John  Barrymore.  As  his  daugh- 
ter, she  finds  her  happiness  threatened  by 
his  fight  with  mental  illness.  Generally  seen 
as  a  comedienne,  Billie  Burke  has  a  dra- 
matic role  as  Katie's  mother. 

BLACK  SWAN,  THE  (20th)  :  Lusty  yarn 
of  buccaneering  on  the  Spanish  Main.  Ty 
Power,  aide  to  Sir  Henry  Morgan  (the  late 
Laird  Cregar),  sees  nobly-born  Maureen 
O'Hara  as  the  loveliest  of  loot. 

BREAKING   THE   SOUND   BARRIER 

(U.A.):  Vigorous  British  salute  to  pioneer 
jet  flyers.  Ralph  Richardson  heads  the  com- 
pany; Nigel  Patrick  is  a  test  pilot;  Ann 
Todd's  the  girl. 

CANYON  CROSSROADS  (U.A.) :  Doing 
a  lively  switch  on  the  Western,  Richard 
Basehart  hunts  uranium  instead  of  gold, 
romances  Phyllis  Kirk,  battles  a  claim- 
jumper   who   rides   a   'copter. 

CASANOVA  BROWN  (RKO)  :  In  a  sen- 
timental comedy,  shy  prof  Gary  Cooper 
becomes  a  father  and  kidnaps  his  baby  as 
lie's  about  to  wed  Anita  Louise.  Teresa 
Wright   plays   the   baby's   mother. 

CENTENNIAL  SUMMER  (20th): 
Charming  musical,  set  in  Philadelphia  of 
1876.  As  sisters,  Jeanne  Crain  and  Linda 
Darnell  compete  for  the  love  of  Cornel 
Wilde,  a  visiting  Frenchman. 

CRASH  OF  SILENCE  (Rank,  U-I): 
Touching,  heartening  story  of  a  child  born 
deaf.  Parents  Phyllis  Calvert  and  Terence 
Morgan  quarrel  over  how  to  treat  Mandy 
Miller;  Jack  Hawkins  is  her  teacher. 

DARK  COMMAND,  THE  (Republic): 
Big  Western.  Marshal  John  Wayne  clashes 
with  Walter  Pidgeon  for  mastery  of  a  fron- 
tier town  and  for  Claire  Trevor's  love.  Roy 
Rogers  is   Claire's   kid   brother^ 

DARK  MIRROR,  THE  (U-I)  :  In  an 
interesting  psychological  drama,  Olivia  de 
Havilland  plays  twins — a  gentle  girl,  a 
killer.  Psychiatrist  Lew  Ayres  and  de- 
tective Thomas  Mitchell  solve  the  case. 

FARMER'S  DAUGHTER,  THE  ( RKO ) : 

Pleasant  political  comedy  casts  charming 
Loretta  Young  as  a  Midwestern  maid- 
servant  who  runs  for  Congress,  romances 
Joseph  Cotten.  With  Ethel  Barrymore. 

HOTEL  SAHARA  (U.A.):  Wacky 
comedy,  set  in  North  Africa  during  World 
War  II.  Peter  Ustinov  tries  to  protect  his 
hotel  and  his  sweetheart  (Yvonne  DeCarlo) 
as  one  army  after  another  moves  in  on  him. 


JACKIE     ROBINSON     STORY,    THE 

(Eagle  Lion):  Jackie  composedly  plays 
himself  in  the  saga  of  big-league  base- 
ball's first  Negro  star.  Ruby  Dee  plays  his 
wife;   Minor  Watson,  the  Dodgers'  Rickey. 

KISS  OF  DEATH  (20th):  Tough,  top- 
flight thriller,  famous  for  Richard  Wid- 
mark's  debut  role,  a  giggling  gunman.  As 
a  convict,  Vic  Mature  turns  stool  pigeon 
for  the  sake  of  wife  Coleen  Gray. 

LADY  FROM  SHANGHAI  (Columbia): 
Distinctive  melodrama  with  the  Orson 
Welles  touch.  Lured  by  Rita  Hayworth, 
sailor  Welles  joins  the  crew  of  the  yacht 
owned    by   her   husband    (Everett   Sloane). 

LETTER      FROM      AN      UNKNOWN 

WOMAN  (U-I) :  Graceful,  tearful  romance 
of  old  Vienna.  From  her  teens  to  woman- 
hood, Joan  Fontaine  worships  composer 
Louis  Jourdan,  even  bears  him  a  child — 
but  he  keeps  forgetting  her  until  it's  too 
late. 

LIFEBOAT  (20th):  Tensely,  Alfred 
Hitchcock  close-ups  survivors  of  a  wartime 
shipwreck,  including  a  career  woman 
(Tallulah  Bankhead),  a  sailor  (the  late 
John    Hodiak),    a    Nazi    (Walter    Slezak). 

LOCKET,  THE  (RKO):  Complex  case 
history  of  a  girl  turned  into  a  kleptomaniac 
by  a  childhood  incident.  Laraine  Day 
wrecks  the  lives  of  psychiatrist  Brian 
Aherne  and  artist  Bob  Mitchum. 

OUTPOST  IN  MALAYA  (Rank,  U.A.) : 
Out  of  unhappy  headlines  comes  a  taut  sus- 
pense story.  The  marriage  of  Claudette 
Colbert  and  British  planter  Jack  Hawkins 
is  near  breaking  when  bandits  strike. 

OVERLANDERS,  THE  (Rank,  U-I): 
Exhilarating  Australian  equivalent  of  an 
American  Western  epic.  Huge,  personable 
Chips  Rafferty  leads  a  cattle  drive  to  save 
stock  from  looming  Jap  invasion. 

PORTRAIT  OF  JENNIE  (Selznick) :  In 
a  delicate  fantasy,  painter  Joseph  Cotten 
falls  in  love  with  Jennifer  Jones,  slowly 
realizing  she's  a  ghost.  Ethel  Barrymore's 
a  kindly  art  dealer. 

SHOOT  FIRST  (U.A.)  :  Neat  spy  story. 
Stationed  in  England  with  wife  Evelyn 
Keyes,  U.  S.  officer  Joel  McCrea  believes 
he's  killed  a  man  while  hunting.  An  atom- 
secrets  mystery  snares  him. 

SINCE  YOU  WENT  AWAY  (U.A.) :  Lov 
ing  tribute  to  home-front  heroism.  With 
daughters  Jennifer  Jones  and  Shirley  Tem- 
ple, Claudette  Colbert  keeps  her  household 
going  while  Dad's  in  the  Navy. 

THIEF,  THE  (U.A.) :  No,  the  sound  on 
your  set  hasn't  gone  wrong.  This  gripping 
chase  story  was  shot  without  a  word  of 
dialogue.  Scientist  Ray  Milland  steals 
atom  secrets,  and  the  law  tracks  him. 

WELL,  THE  (U.A.)  :  Timely  drama  shows 
racial  tension  in  a  small  town.  A  Negro 
child  (Gwendolyn  Laster)  is  trapped  in  a 
well,  and  differences  are  forgotten  as  the 
community  unites  for  rescue. 


SEE  IT! 
SEW  IT! 

Automatically 

on  9 

namsE 

Ztfrt"  Fotomatic 

with   Magic   Rainbow   Discs 


%*>* 


MinOiXtz  Sewing  Machine  &  Supply  Corp. 

122   West   26th   St.,   New   York   1,   N.  Y. 

OR  2615  W.   Pico  Blvd.,   Los  Angeles  48,   Calif. 

"I'd    love  to  own   a   completely  automatic   Morse 
Super  Fotomatic  Zig  Zag  Sewing  Machine  because: 

Name    

Address    

City  State  

Phone  No 

4  Monthly  Contests,  starting  October  1,   1956. 
This  Month's  Contest  Closes  December  31,  1956. 


naaxE 


SEWING  MACHINE 
and  SUPPLY  CORP. 


T 

V 
R 

15 


Say   H 


PHI 


No  interviews,  just  music  on  WMGM— 
so  here's  where  I  turn  the  turntables 
and  interview  deejay  Phil  Goulding 

By  JO-ANN  CAMPBELL 


*, 


It    was    a    switch — a     singer    interviewing     a 
deejay.    But  Phil's  so  easygoing  and  friendly. 


I'm  a  rebel.    Phil  and  wife  Thelma  are  both  Yankees 
from  Lowell — where  Phil  lost  a  contest,  won  a  job. 


16 


My  name  is  Jo-Ann  Campbell,  but  sometimes  I'm 
called  the  "Wherever  You  Go"  girl,  because  that's 
the  name  of  my  biggest  hit  so  far  on  the  Point  label. 
Well,  wherever  I  go,  I  meet  the  local  disc  jockeys — and 
a  nicer  group  of  people  you  couldn't  meet.  One  of  the 
very  nicest  is  Phil  Goulding,  who's  heard  on  New  York's 
Station  WMGM  with  Music  With  A  Beat— the  kind  I  like 
to  sing — every  weekday  from  4  to  5  P.M.  and  Saturdays 
from  10  to  noon.  Disc  jockeys  often  interview  recording 
stars  on  their  programs.  Phil  doesn't,  because  WMGM 
vetoes  interviews  in  favor  of  more  music  for  their  listeners. 
So  I  decided  to  turn  the  turntables  and  interview  Phil 
instead.  ...  At  first,  I  didn't  know  how  to  start.  Then 
I  remembered  what  we  used  to  say  down  South  when 
we  wanted  someone  to  talk  frankly  and  truthfully.  "Say 
honest,  Phil,"  I  told  him — and  Phil  did  just  that.  .  .  . 
Phil's  a  Yankee,  born  in  Clinton  and  raised  in  Lowell, 
Massachusetts.  He's  always  wanted  to  be  on  radio.  "I 
couldn't  sing  or  dance  or  act,"  he  says,  "so  I  decided  to 
become  an  announcer."  Then  the  local  radio  station, 
WLLH,  staged  a  contest  for  announcers,  with  the  winner 
to  get  a  suit  of  clothes.  Phil  didn't  win  the  contest — or 
the  suit — but  they  hired  him,  anyway.  The  next  year,  his 


younger  brother,  Ray  Goulding,  entered  the  same  contest. 
He  didn't  win  the  suit  of  clothes  either,  but  he,  too,  got 
a  job.  He's  now  Ray  of  "Bob  and  Ray"  and  Bert  Piel  of 
those  wonderful  beer  commercials.  After  he  left  Lowell, 
Phil  went  to  WEEI  in  Boston  and  then  to  the  CBS 
station  in  New  York.  He  joined  WMGM — it  was  WHN 
then — in  1944.  They're  remodeling  the  station's  building 
now  and  Phil  says,  "I've  been  here  so  long  I  go  with  the 
cornerstone."  .  .  .  Phil  is  five-feet-ten,  has  brown  hair 
and  very  gentle  brown  eyes.  He's  fascinated  by  politics 
and  photography.  In  his  opinion,  Colorado  is  the  most 
beautiful  state  in  the  Union,  and  his  wife  Thelma,  a 
former  Lowell  radio  actress,  the  most  beautiful  girl. 
They've  been  married  for  fourteen  years  and  live  in  an 
apartment  in  Forest  Hills,  Long  Island,  where,  Phil  told 
me,  "I  don't  even  have  a  record  player."  .  .  .  But  Phil 
loves  music  and  he's  a  staunch  defender  of  rock  'n'  roll. 
"It  has  a  real  primitive  two-beat  and  it's  easy  to  dance 
to,"  he  says.  Phil  says  the  kids  like  it,  and  he  should 
know.  He  plays  the  top  records  as  determined  by  the 
WMGM  survey.  "The  funny  thing,"  says  Phil,  "is  that  teen- 
agers who  liked  it  a  couple  of  years  ago  and  who  are 
now,   say,   in   Princeton   or   other   colleges,   still  like  it." 


$hi*  Christmas  buy  cartons  of  £uckies 


CLEANER 


PBESHEB.SMOOTHEB.. 


-to  enjoy 


I 


w 


COPR.,    THE   AMERICAN    TOBACCO   COMPANY 


.*u 


(MQK&l 


.snd  you  can  prove  it  with  a  Palmolive  bar! 


Hidden  dirt  is  a  beauty 
thief!  After  ordinary, 
casual  cleansing  with  your 
regular  soap  or  face  cream,  rub 
your  face  hard  with  a  cotton 
pad.  Smudge  on  pad  is  hidden 
dirt  you've  left  behind.  It  hides 
your  natural  prettiness  I 


S*y  Beautifully  clean  after 
--^,  60-second  Palmolive 
facial !  Test  again  after  wash- 
ing the  Palmolive  way.  Pad 
stays  snowy-white  .  .  .  proving 
that  mild  and  gentle  Palmolive 
care  cleans  cleaner,  deeper  .  .  . 
without  irritation  ! 


^"^  ■■■■■ . 


Ne 


% 


ew  complexion  beauty  in  just  one  minute?  Yes,  fair  lady,  yes!  Because  Palmolive  care  removes 
beauty-robbing  hidden  dirt  that  casual  cleansing  misses.  And  only  a  soap  as  mild  as  Palmolive  can  cleanse  so 
deeply  without  irritation.  Start  Palmolive  care  today,  and  see  your  true  complexion  beauty  come  through! 


During  convalescence,  Ed  marveled  at  the  kindness  and  good  will  of  "strangers." 

the  Great  Big  "IF" 


When  you  live  through  an  accident 
like  Ed  Sullivan's  .  .  .  and 
your  mind  goes  forward— and  back- 
to  what  might  have  happened  .  .  . 
By  MARTIN  COHEN 


I 


T  was  Monday  morning,  and  banner  headlines 
shocked  the  nation  with  the  first  report  of  Ed  Sullivan's 
accident.  He  had  been  driving  to  his  farm  when 
another  car  swerved  into  his  lane.  In  the  head-on 
collision  both  cars  were  smashed,  crumpled  like  old  paper 
cups.  Miraculously,  no  one  was  killed.  Many  news- 
papers reported  Ed  had  been  "injured  slightly,"  and  this 
may  be  the  understatement  of  the  year.  They  reported 
he  had  had  a  comfortable  night,  but  the  doctors  had  said 
"satisfactory" — which  means  something  altogether 
different.  They  reported  he  would  be  back  on  the  show 
the  following  Sunday — but  it  was  six  weeks  before 


See  Next  Page- 


/. 


N~ 


r 


First  photo  of  Ed  Sullivan  in  the  hospital,  after  the 
accident,  with  his  wife  Sylvia — who  says  he  was  always 
most  concerned  about  what  had  happened  to  the  others. 


With  daughter  Betty,  Ed  visits  the  bedside  of' son-in-law 
Bob  Precht.  Betty  and  her  mother  had  thought,  from 
first  reports,  that  Ed  was  the  only  one  who  was  injured. 


the  Great  Big  "IF" 


(Continued) 


Twisted  wreckage  bears  mute  but  terrible  witness  to  the 
violence  of  that  night's  head-on  collision,  which  brought 


fou 


r    people    so    near    to    the    very    brink    of    death. 


The  Ed  Sullivan  Show  is  seen  over  CBS-TV,  each  Sunday  night, 
from  8  to  9  P.M.  EST,  sponsored  by  Mercury-Lincoln  Dealers. 


20 


he  returned.  They  listed  one  fractured  rib — but 

he  had  broken  eight,  fractured  his  breastbone,  bruised 

his  lung,  and  was  constantly  threatened 

with  pneumonia.    Actually,  Ed  had  suffered  the 

first  great  physical  shock  of  his  life. 

"When  you're  on  your  back  in  a  hospital,  your  mind 
runs  in  funny  channels,"  says  Ed.  "Well,  I've  traveled 
a  lot.  Over  the  world.  By  car,  train,  plane.  How  many 
hundreds  of  thousands  of.  miles,  I  don't  know.  But 
I've  never  had  an  accident  like  this.  I  was  fifty-five  on 
September  28,  and  lucky  to  make  it.  But  in  bed  I 
lay  figuring,  and  I  thought:  Here  it  took  me  fifty-four 
years,  ten  months  and  nine  days  to  arrive  at  an 
obscure  spot  on  a  Connecticut  road  at  1:25  A.M. 
where  this  was  waiting  for  me!  What  I  mean  is  this: 
I  wasn't  asking  for  it.  I  preach  safe  driving,  and  I 
practice  what  I  preach.   That  (Continued  on  page  61) 


Sullivan  had  never  thought  he'd  miss  a  TV  performance. 
But  the  show  went  on,  in  the  best  tradition,  with  Mario 
Lewis,  co-producer,  putting  Presley  through  his  paces. 


p*"^fct~ 

."H[ 


■C 


s 


a 


However,  Ed  kept  a  close  eye  on  his  program,  as  usual, 
monitoring  films  of  Elvis  in  action — and  giving  cogent 
answers  to  those  who  criticized  him  for  booking  Presley. 


1 


. U 

Recuperating  at  his  farm,  with  Sylvia  near  by,  Ed  takes 
a  new  look  at  life.  He  sees  his  show  from  a  different 
angle,  knows  more  than  ever  what  his  family  means  to  him. 


I  ■► 


NBC  Matinee  Theater  dramcu 


ii 


By  PAULINE  TOWNSEND 

Millions  of  American  housewives  know  John  Conte,  emcee  and  star 
of  television's  most  popular  daytime  show,  NBC  Matinee  Theater,  as 
telecast  five  days  weekly  from  Hollywood.  And  they  know  his 
pretty  wife,  Ruth,  who  also  appears  on  the  program  from  time  to  time.  .  .  . 
But  they  probably  would  be  surprised  to  know  that,  only  two  years  ago, 
John  was  a  confirmed  bachelor,  a  refugee  from  Hollywood  and  television, 
carving  out  a  whole  new  career  for  himself  as  a  singer  and  actor  in 
Broadway  musical  comedies. 

John  himself  is  a  little. bit  dazed  at  the  changes  in  his  life  which  two 
short  years — and  love — have  wrought.  ...  It  all  began  on  a  warm  Sunday 
morning  in  August,  in  1954.  John,  snoozing    {Continued  on  page  81) 

WSZTfflatinee  Theater,  NBC-TV,  M-E,  3  to  4  P.M.  EST,  is  seen  in  color  and  black-and-white. 


22 


Producer  Albert  McCleery  and  John 
find  work  on  Matinee  Theater  fun. 


More   fun,    home   style:   John   with 
Ruth,  their  pool — and  banana  tree. 


■■■■■■■ 


could  hardly  be  more  romantic  than  the  actual  marriage  of  John  Conte,  host  and  star 


Wife  Ruth  did  a  beautiful  job  furnishing  the  new 
Conte  home.  Reward:  Breakfast  in  bed  on  Sundays! 


They  worked  closely  with  the  house-painters.  Friends 
helped,  too — lured  on  by  Ruth's  wonderful  suppers. 


Art  objects  and  harlequin  wallpaper  in  their  dining 
room  are  striking  examples  of  Ruth's  decorating  skill. 


Once  a  confirmed   bachelor,   John   now  finds   himself 
enjoying   married   life  to  the  full — just  as   predicted! 


Back  Home 


The  Circle — and  Soldiers  and  Sailors  Monument:  Betty  with  her  grandmother, 
Mrs.  A.  C.  Cain,  and  mother,  Mrs.  L  F.  (Jack)  Armstrong.  But  Betty  was  in 
Indianapolis  to  work,  too — as  star  at  the  Hilton  U.  Brown  Theatron.  Below, 
with  director  Jack  Hatfield,  who  had  also  directed  her  before,  in  her  teens. 


By 
JUDITH  FIELD 


By  this  time,  New  York  knows 
Betty  Oakes  quite  well.  As  ac- 
tress and  person,  she's  known 
and  loved  by  all  the  cast  of  Valiant 
Lady,  over  CBS-TV.  To  them,  she's 
not  only  Betty  Oakes  but  Roberta 
Wilcox,  soon  to  become  the  bride 
of  Mickey  Emerson  and  daughter- 
in-law  of  Helen  Emerson — Valiant 
Lady  herself.  Ask  Flora  Campbell 
(Helen)  or  ask  Jimmy  Kirkwood 
(Mickey)  or  Malcolm  Beggs  (Louis 
Wilcox,  Roberta's  father).  They'll 
tell  you  Betty  Oakes  is  very  much 
like  Roberta:  Attractive  and  sym- 
pathetic, with  an  appealing,  forth- 
right personality. 

But  to  understand  a  person,  you 
should  really  have  "known  them 
when"  ...  as  the  folks  in  Indian- 
apolis remember  Betty  (Betty  June, 
she  was  then)  when  she  was  grow- 
ing up  in  the  Hoosier  state.  Of 
course — thanks  to  TV — they  all  rec- 
ognize her  as  Roberta  Wilcox  today. 
But  it  wouldn't  be  human  nature, 
if  they  hadn't  wondered  just  how 
much  of  what  they  saw  was  still 
true  .  .  .  how  much  their  Betty  June 
might  have  changed  in  the  not-so- 
many  years  since  she  left  home  to 
seek  fame  in  New  York. 

They  got  their  chance  to  find  out, 
late  last  summer,  when  Betty  came 
home  to  star  at  the  Hilton  U.  Brown 

Continued        k. 


Again  in  Indiana 


On  Valiant  Lady,  she  is  Roberta  Wilcox, 
Mickey's  bride-to-be  .  .  .  but,  to  loyal  Hoosiers, 
Betty  Oakes  will  always  be  their  own  ''Betty  June 


Bicycling  with  her  poodle  "TuTu"  was  like  old  times. 
Newer  to  her  album  of  memories  was  her  mother's  home 
on   Patton   Lake,  where  Betty  relaxed  with  family  pets. 


Boating  around  Patton  Lake  with  her  mother  was  a  sunny 
treat — and  so,  as  it  turned  out,  was  listening  to  the  fine 
newspaper     reviews    of    Betty's    Theatron     performances! 


Back  Home  Again  in  Indiana 

(Continued) 


First  beau  Tommy  Wadelton  took  all 
these  home-town  pictures  of  Betty — 
and  her  color  portrait  on  our  cover. 


Betty  and  vocal  coach  Robert  M. 
Lewis  (above)  had  a  quiet  wedding — 
not  like  the  formal  one  she  expects 
on  Valiant  Lady\  The  actress  showed 
Indianapolis  she  could  still  sing,  at 
the  Theatron  this  year  (I.  to  r. — Jack 
Hatfield,  musical  director  John 
Sacco,     Betty,    and    Wilton    Clary). 


Reunion  at  Shortridge  High  School 
with  her  teachers,  Mrs.  Nell  Merrick 
Thomas  and  Mrs.  Howard  Clippinger. 


Theatron  in  the  musicals,  "Guys  and 
Dolls"  and  "Where's  Charley?"  That 
was  the  way  Indianapolis  remem- 
bered Betty  best — as  a  singer.  Now 
she  was  even  better  known  as  an 
actress.  Other  changes  might  be 
expected,  too  .  .  .  and  there  was 
always  the  chance  that  Betty-Ro- 
berta had  forgotten  Betty  June's  old 
friends  by  this  time.  But  she  hadn't. 
"It's  absolutely  amazing  how  she 
can  remember  all  of  us,"  says  Mrs. 
Rosemary  Walker  Lynch,  a  close 
friend  through  both  grade  school 
and  high  school.  "The  minute  she 
spied  me  backstage  that  night,  she 


26 


Stop  at  the  well-remembered  TeePee: 
Betty  and  pal  Rosemary  Walker 
Lynch,  carhop  Sandra  Kay  Wildman. 


was  just  overwhelmed  that  I  should 
'take  the  trouble'  of  coming*  to  see 
her.  Immediately,  she  started  ask- 
ing all  about  my  family.  In  fact, 
she  even  refused  an  invitation  to  a 
party  that  night,  so  we  could  go  to 
an  old  high-school  hangout  of  ours 
and  reminisce  over  bygone  days." 

Indianapolis  remembers  Betty  be- 
cause of  her  talent  and  sparkling 
personality,  of  course,  but  remem- 
bers her  best  as  the  ideal  girl-next- 
door,  as  full  of  friendliness  and 
bounce  as  a  healthy  puppy.  Says 
Mrs.  Delia  Solomon,  who  lived  next 
door  to  the  Oakes  family  for  many 


'III 


^Hfl 


ffl 


Tennis  at  Riviera  Club  with  Wilton 
Clary,  her  co-star  at  the  Theatron 
— and  also  a  graduate  of  Shortridge. 


years,  "You  know,  when  Betty  June 
saw  Mr.  Solomon  and  myself  in  a 
restaurant,  after  one  of  her  recent 
performances,  she  rushed  up  and 
threw  her  arms  around  me."  Mrs. 
Solomon  had  been  one  of  the  first  to 
predict  that  Betty  would  be  a  great 
success.  So  had  Miss  Rebecca 
Docherty,  who  has  served  at  the 
Riviera  Club  since  its  opening 
and  who  still  fondly  recalls  Betty's 
many  visits  there. 

"That  sprightly  miss  was  the  life 
of  the  party,"  says  Miss  Docherty. 
"She  always  was  a  hit  with  the 
boys,  especially  after  previewing  a 
new  number  of  hers  while  sitting 
around  the  pool."  One  of  the  first 
things  Betty  did,  after  arriving  in 
Indianapolis  last  summer,  was  to 
rush  over  to  the  club  and  plant  a 
kiss  on  Miss  Docherty's  cheek.  "It 
couldn't  be  an  act,"  says  Mrs.  Jeanny 
Truleck  Bowers,  another  high- 
school  chum  of  Betty's.  "If  it  is, 
Betty  has  been  performing  it  twenty- 
four  hours  a  day  since  childhood!" 

For  Betty  herself,  this  homecom- 
ing was  a  sentimental  journey  in- 
deed. But,  more  than  that,  it  was  a 
voyage  of  discovery  ...  of  learning 
just  who  "Betty  June"  was,  what 
she  had  been — and  would  be.  For, 
of  course,  there  had  been  changes. 
For  some  years  now  she  had 
been  Mrs.   (Continued  on  page  78) 

Betty  Oakes  is  Roberta  Wilcox  in  Valiant 
Lady,  seen  on  CBS-TV,  M-F,  12  noon  EST, 
as  sponsored  by  General  Mills,  The  Toni 
Company,  Wesson  Oil,  and  Tenderleaf  Tea. 


Betty  Oakes  re-lives  two  important  phases  of  her  Indianapolis  life:  Above, 
singing  again  with  the  choir  conducted  by  Clarence  Elbert  at  Trinity  Lutheran 
Church.  Below,  back  in  the  swim  at  the  Riviera  Club,  chatting  with  lifeguard 
Tom  McCaw,  Rebecca  Docherty  of  the  club  staff,  and  James  Makin,  president. 


the  Girl  who  got  to  PRESLEY 


Unlike  many  parents,   Mrs.  Juanico   likes   Elvis's   records 
as  a  performer,  has  met  and  approved  of  him  as  a  person. 


With  mother's  consent,  June  Juanico  accompanied  Elvis 
on  a  long  tour,  will  always  treasure  memories  like  this. 


Thousands  of  love  letters  to  Elvis  .  .  .  but  only  one 
was  ansivered  in  a  way  that  could  never  happen  again 

By  PHILIP  CHAPMAN 

IN  every  town  in  the  country  where  Elvis  Presley  has  appeared, 
the  hysterical  hordes  of  teen-aged  girls  have  mobbed  him. 
They've  torn  off  his  jacket,  slit  his  shirt.  They  have  bombarded 
him  with  letters  pleading  for  a  lock  of  hair.  They  have  sworn 
undying  love.  One  over-enthusiastic  Long  Island  girl — bucking 
opposition  from  her  parents  to  her  remote-  (Continued  on  page  84) 

Elvis  himself  has  since  gone  on  to  Hollywood — where  he's  been  dating 
Debra  Paget,  his  co-star  in  the  Civil  War  film,  "Love  Me  Tender." 


pry* 


Cornered  backstage  jn  Miami  and  asked 
by  a  reporter  "what  she  could  see  in 
Elvis,"  June  answered  simply:  "If  you 
were  of  the  opposite  sex,  you'd  know." 


28 


" 

1 

=lpif 

%. 

1 

\ 

\ 

i 

rl* 

1  H 

• 

.n 

s 

^h 


I 


1 


He  loves  being  on  TV  in  Alfred  Hitchcock  Presents,  and 
absolutely  revels  in  directing  movies  on  location — 
in  Africa,  say,  as  with  Doris  Day  and  Jimmy  Stewart 
in  the  Paramont  film,  "The  Man  Who  Knew  Too  Much." 


Terry  and  Mary  certainly  aren't  "scared"  when  their 
grandparents  come  to  visit  me  and  my  husband,  Joseph 
O'Connell,  in  San  Fernando  Valley.  Below,  Terry,  Daddy 
— and  Daddy's  Sealyham! — discover  the  cat  next  door. 


Reading  scripts — even  at  my 
house — is  just  his  cup  of  tea. 


Cooking   is  one  of  his  few   "active 
sports,"   and   he's  very  good  at  it. 


What  is   he   reading   to  his  grand- 
children?   "Alice   in    Ghoul    Land.' 


Doctor  and  actress  are  also  good 
gardeners — rooftop  terrace  variety. 


Hi-fi    set    is    her    pride    and    joy — 
particularly    because   of   its   donor. 


Grand  piano  was  another  gift  from 
"Vinnie,"  that  thoughtful  husband. 


That's  the  logical  disguise  for 
Betsy  Palmer  on  Masquerade  Party- 
but  everyone  would  guess  it ! 


By  GREGORY  MERWIN 


B 


On  TV,  Betsy's  a  sparkling  panelist,  along  with  Bobby 
Sherwood,  Masquerade  Party  host  Peter  Donald,  and 
fellow  "guess"   artists  Ogden   Nash   and   Ilka  Chase. 


Masquerade  Party  is  seen  over  ABC-TV,  Saturdays  at  10 
P.M.  EST,  as  sponsored  by  Lentheric  ( makers  of  Tweed ) 
and  the  Emerson  Drug  Company  (makers  of  Bromo-Seltzer) . 


34 


lond  Betsy  Palmer,   actress   and   panelist   on 
Masquerade  Party,  is  as  beautiful  as  she  looks  on 
TV — and  has  a  disposition  to  match.   "I  enjoy  life 
tremendously,"  she  says,  "so  why  should  I  do  anything 
to  make  myself — or  anyone   else — unhappy?" 
As  a  Girl  Scout,  she  was  happy.  As  a  stenographer, 
she  was  happy.  As  an  actress — an  art  whose  practice 
often  makes  people  sensitive  to  humidity  and 
humanity — she  is  still  happy.   She  says  blandly,   "I 
think  maybe  I'm  just  a  good-natured  idiot."   But 
evidence  refutes  the  "idiot"  theory.  Keith  Taylor, 
associate  producer  of  Masquerade  Party,  says,  "We 
chose  Betsy  for  the  panel  because  she's  vivacious, 
intelligent  and  witty."  Broadway,  movie  and  TV  critics 
have  described  her  as  a  sensitive,  skilled  actress. 
In  private  life — although  only  (Continued  on  page  79) 


At  home,  she's  Mrs.  Vincent  Merendino,  housewife — 
who  adjusts  time-tables  to  a  doctor's  emergency  calls. 


*v 


■JT 


Kitchen  is  Ann's  domain,  but  Bill  takes  over  for 
spaghetti  and  souffles.  She  rates  him  expert  as  a 
chef — but  "as  cleaner-upper  he  doesn't  quite  pass!" 


36 


Bill's  an  avid  shutterbug,  with  Ann,  a  former  model, 
his  favorite  subject.  Bill  has  all  the  cameras  he  can 
use,  wants  his  own  darkroom — but  not  for  Christmas! 


Bill  is  a  panelist  on  Garry  Moore's  I've  Got  A  Secret,  on 
CBS-TV,  Wed.,  9:30  P.M.  EST,  sponsored  by  R.  J.  Reynolds 
Tobacco  Co.  for  Winston  Cigarettes.  He  also  stars  on  Pulse, 
M-F,  6  to  10  A.M.,  and  on  Best  Of  Pulse,  Sat.,  6:30  to  8 
A.M.  EST,  on  WRCA  Radio  (N.Y.)  for  multiple  sponsors. 


BM(Mfat: 


per, 


Wrap  up  a  happy  marriage  in  golden  pap 
decorate  it  with  silver  stars,  bedeck  it 
with  lovely  ribbons — and  send  to  someone 
other  than  Bill  Cullen.  He  already  has  one! 

By  GLADYS  HALL 


This  year,  1956,  Bill  Cullen  is  a  supremely  happy 
man.   He  greets  Thanksgiving  with  lots  to  be  glad 
about.   But  when  it  comes  to  the  question  of 
what  he  wants  for  Christmas,  he's  frankly  stumped. 
Because  there's  nothing  that  can  be  put  in  a  sock, 
hung  on  a  tree  or  tied  with  tinselly  ribbon  to  ask  for; 
everything  that  doesn't  come  in  packages  is  already 
his:  Ann  ...  a  beautiful  new  apartment  overlooking 
New  York's  East  River  .  .  .  his  own  local  New  York 
show,  Pulse,  on  WRCA  Radio  six  mornings  a  week  .  .  . 
and,  on  Wednesday  nights  at  9:30,  CBS-TV's  I've 
Got  A  Secret,  on  which  he  has  long  been  a  regular 
member  of  Garry  Moore's  panel  of  four  .  .  .  friends, 
literally  hundreds  of  them,  for  to  Bill  friends  and 
fans  are  synonomous.   All  adding  up  to  a  warm, 
wonderful  feeling  of  gratitude,  of  well-being,  of  peace 
on  his  particular  piece  of  earth. 

"On  December  24th,  Christmas  Eve,"  Bill  said,  "Ann 
and  I  celebrate  our  first  anniversary  and  it  will  be, 
speaking  for  myself,   the   celebration   of  a   completely 
fulfilled  and  happy  year. 

"I  feel  genuinely  happy.  I  really  feel  secure,"  Bill 
said,  in  a  surprised- at-himself  tone  of  voice.    "I  have, 
in  fact,  such  a  sense  of  security  that,  for  the  first 
time  in  my  adult  fife,  I'm  hoping  and  planning   (Ann 
and  I  both  are)  to  have  children.   I  say  children, 
plural,  because  I  was  an  only  child  and  the  answer 
to  that  lonely  one-child  deal  is — two  children!  At  least." 

Although  Bill  did  not  directly  name  Ann  as  the 
source  of  his  obvious  happiness  and  sense  of 
security,  he  didn't  need  to.   From  everything  he  said, 
the  way  he  said  it  and  the  way  he  looked  when  he 
said  it,  you  knew  that  the  source  is  Ann. 

"Ann  and  I  met,"  Bill  said,  "during  the  time  I  was 
commuting  between  New  York  and  the  Coast.   One 
day  a  week  I  flew  to  Hollywood,  where  I  emceed 
Place  The  Face,  first  on  CBS-TV,  then  on  NBC-TV. 
The  other  six  days  I  plied  my  trade  in  New  York. 
Ann  is  the  sister-in-law  of  Jack  Narz,  who  was  our 
announcer  on  Place  The  Face.    One  night  Jack 
asked  me  over  to  his  place,  a  sort  of  last-minute 
thought  on  his  part,  for  a  steak  dinner.   Though 
tempted,  I  hesitated.    My  plane  took  off  early  next 


Continued 


The  Man  Who  Has  Everything 


^T^fr 


*.  . ' 


*■••-* 


\ 

A 

) 


V 


I 


/ 


3tr-*wvi. 


\ 


:«*••*.** 


;>.'<:> '•'',''''; 


i 


4- 


BM  (Mai:  The  Man  Who  Has  Everything 


(Continued) 


The  Cullens  share  work,  fun,  and  Bill's  4  A.M.  breakfast 
hour.  This  unusual  clock  was  their  first  purchase  for 
the  new  home  which  they  tastefully  decorated  together. 


No  second  best  for  Ann  and  Bill!  From  the  green  tropical 
plants  in  the  living  room  to  the  fine  mahogany  bedroom 
furnishings,  the  apartment  is  "what  they  really  wanted." 


morning.  A  crowded  day  ahead  of  me  when  I  reached 
New  York.  Suppose,  I've  often  thought  since,  I  hadn't 
gone?  What  if  I'd  said  'No,  thank  you,  instead  of  'Yes, 
thank  you.'  Terrifying,  the  lifetime  difference  a  yes  or 
a  no,  a  turn  to  the  right  or  to  the  left,  can  make.  But 
I  made  the  right  turn.  I  did  go.  And  Ann  was  there. 
Love  at  first  sight?  Yeah,"  Bill  grinned  his  bright  grin, 
"I  guess  that  would  be  legitimate!  She  has  brown  eyes, 
big  ones,  dark  hair,  sort  of  olive  coloring,  the  brunette 
type.  She's  tall,  well-formed,  goodly  endowed  by 
Nature — which,  as  a  high-fashion  model,  she  was 
obliged  to  be.  What  actually  attracted  me  at  first,  how- 
ever, was  something  less  superficial  than  meets  the  eye. 
She  struck  me  as  being  very  sensible.  Not  flighty.  I'm 
odd  that  way.  I  like  sensible  young  women — especially, 
of  course  (let's  not  kid  ourselves),  those  with  the  plus 
of  being  goodly  endowed  by  Nature.  She  was  quiet  and 
reserved  and  intelligent  and,  the  most  important  quality 
in  any  human  being,  friendly.  I  had,  and  at  once,  the 
feeling  I  could  tell  her  things.  I  was  right.  I  did  tell 
her  things  of  the  kind  you  do  not  usually  confide  to 
anyone  at  a  first  meeting.  I  still  tell  her  things,  tell  her 
everything,  no  secrets  between  us.  We  are  friends, 
good  friends,  and  it  is  our  friendship  that  is  the  solid 
earth,  so  to  speak,  under  the  feet  of  our  relationship." 

"What  first  attracted  me  to  Bill,"  Ann  says,  "was 
that  I  found  him  to  be  terribly  interested  in  a  number 
of  things — none  of  them  involving  the  use  of  the  pro- 
nouns T  and  'me.'  ,1  was  the  one,  in  fact,  that  brought 
him,"  Ann  laughed,  "to  him.  To  speaking,  that  is,  even 
briefly  of  himself." 

"Come  time  to  leave  after  dinner  that  first  evening," 
Bill  smiled,  "and  Ann's  car  opportunely  broke  down 
and  I  drove  her  home.  She  asked  me  in  for  coffee — 
and  it  was  coffee.   I  liked  that,  too. 

"When  we  said  goodnight,  I  told  her  I'd  call  her  the 
next  time — which  would  be  the  next  week — I  was  on 
the  Coast.  And  so  I  did,  upon  arrival,  and  every  week 
thereafter.  During  the  six  days  a  week  I  spent  in  New 
York,  I  put  in  a  lot  of  time  and  out  a  lot  of  money 
(well-spent)  calling  the  Coast!  The  first  three  times 
we  went  out,  it  was  in  family  groups,  with  Jack  Narz, 


38 


Spectacular  view  of  the  East  River  prompted  the  Cullen 
hobby  of  "boat  watching."  Below:  Outdoor  barbecue  on  the 
terrace,  with  historical  Sracie  Mansion  in  the  background. 


with  Ann's  father,  Heinz  Roemheld,  who  is  a  composer 
and  a  musical  director  for  motion  pictures.  Parties  in 
the  homes  of  friends,  too,  during  which  we'd  manage  a 
few  minutes  alone  by  wandering  onto  a  patio,  taking 
a  brief  walk  or  a  run  over  to  the  Polo  Lounge  of  The 
Beverly  Hills  Hotel. 

"Our  first  real  date,  just  the  two  of  us,  we  went  to 
The  Albatross  near  Malibu  Beach,  for  dinner.  Nice 
romantic  place.  Sea  and  wind  and  stars,  music  playing 
and  all.  This  was  in  June  of  '55.  On  December  24,  we 
were  married.  I  rather  favored  getting  married .  on 
Christmas  Eve — figured  Fd  get  by,"  Mr.  Cullen  put 
on  his  pixie  face,  "with  one  present  that  way!  I  did,  too. 
Got  her  a  mink  stole  for  a  combination  wedding  and 
Christmas  gift.  Midriff  next.  Probably  this  year.  Couple 
of  Christmas  and  wedding  anniversaries  later,  she'll 
have  what  is  known  in  the  trade  as  a  'full-fashioned' 
garment!" 

Bill  was,  of  course,  having  his  bit  of  fun.  Admittedly 
extravagant,  he  and  Ann  put  in  "a  lot  of  time  and 
work,  and,"  Bill  said,  squaring  his  broad  shoulders,  "an 
infinite  amount  of  money"  on  their  apartment,  which 
overlooks  the  East  River  and  (Continued  on  page  82) 


* 


yy 


Her  hair  is  redder  than  red,  her  eyes  are  bluer  than  blue,  her  talent  is 
greater  than  great,  and  besides  she's  my  very  best  friend— Jeannie  Carson 


40 


Jmmit 


WITH    THE    BRIGHT    RED    HAIR 


I'm  the  stand-in,  Jeonnie  the  star — 
and  still  the  great  pal  of  our  teen- 
age   fun    and    shopping-spree    days. 


We  used  to  practice  dancing  beneath 
an  oak  tree.  Now  Jeannie's  thrilled 
at  orange  trees  in  her  own  back  yard. 


On  TV,  she  rides  with  Allen  Jenkins. 
On  a  recent  New  York  trip,  Jeannie 
shared    her    cabs    with    husband    Bill. 


By  JUNE  BERRYMAN 

My  name  is  June  Berry  man;  I  work  on  the  CBS-TV  show 
Hey,  Jeannie!  as  Jeannie  Carson's  stand-in.  Jeannie  and  I 
have  a  lot  in  common:  We're  both  in  show  business,  wear  our 
hair  the  same  way,  love  swimming,  badminton,  and  movies, 
and  shop  for  one  another's  clothes.   We  are  the  same  height  and 
weight,  five-feet-two-and-one-half,  100  pounds  for  Jeannie, 
104  for  me — I  envy  the  fact  she  doesn't  have  to  watch 
her  weight.  Differences?  I  have  brown  (Continued  on  page  71) 

Jeannie  Carson  is  starred  in  Hey,  Jeannie!,  seen  on  CBS-TV,  Saturday  night  at 
9:30  P.M.  EST,  as  sponsored  by  Procter  &  Gamble  for  Dash,  Drene  and  Crest. 


^1 


/ 


Jeannie's  a  fish  'n'  chips  girl,  and  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Redmond  keep  up  the  British  tea-time 
habit.  Bill's  associate  producer  of  the  show. 


41 


ll^J<£W 


Virginia  Dwyer — who  mothers  young 
Amy  in  The  Secret  Storm — in 
private  life  cherishes  her  own  daughter 
Susan,  a  true  teenager  at  fourteen 

By  FRANCES  KISH 


Watching  Virginia  Dwyer  play  a  scene  with  Jada 
Rowland  in  The  Secret  Storm,  you  sense  the 
feeling  of  rapport  between  these  two  .  .  .  the  un- 
derstanding and  sympathy  between  the  adult  Vir- 
ginia, who  is  Jane  Edwards  on  the  show,  and  little 
Jada,  who  plays  Amy,  younger  daughter  of  widower 
Peter  Ames,  the  man  who  has  loved  Jane  a  long 
time  now  but  whose  courtship  has  run  into  many 
obstacles.  .  .  .  This  feeling  of  accord  has  its  roots 
in  the  love  and  under-    (Continued  on  page  76) 

Virginia  is  Jane  Edwards  in  The  Secret  Storm,  CBS-TV,  M-F, 
4:15  P.M.  EST,  for  Whitehall  Pharmacal  and  Boyle-Midway. 


Mothers  and  daughters  can  share  only  so  much,  Virginia  has 
found,  but  even  watching  teen-age  pastimes  can  be  fun.  It's 
worth  all  the  commuting,  to  be  where  Susan  can  call  friends 
in  for  a  record  session  (left  to  right  around  player:  Pat+y 
Raymond,  Margie  Hanlon,  Susan,  Lola  Pia,  Louise  Hibbert). 


Susan  sees  mother  off  to  work — knowing  Virginia  will 
be  available  as  "chauffeur"  for  her  own  plans  later  on. 


Love  of  clothes  can  be  a  great  bond  between  women  at 
any  age — and  these  two  always  enjoy  shopping  together. 


FAITH  IN 


Good  friends  Ralph  Story  of  Challenge 
and  Hal  March  of  The  $64,000  Question 
recommend  each  other  for  the  same  jobs! 


The  $64,000  Challenge  gives 
emcee  Ralph  Story 
the  perfect  outlet  for  his 
abiding  love  of  human  beings 

By   LILLA   ANDERSON 


Ralph  Story,  master  of  ceremonies  of  The 
$64,000  Challenge,  is  a  man  who  dis- 
tributes his  affections.  He  has  a  father's 
devotion  to  his  fifteen-year-old  son, 
Bradley;  he  is  on  friendly  terms — although 
they  live  apart — with  his  wife,  June;  he 
boundlessly   admires   his   mother,   spunky, 
capable  Marjorie  Sneider,  R.  N.   Then, 
in  addition  to  these  deep  family 
attachments,  he  carries  on  a  serious  love 
affair  with  the  broadcasting  audience. ' 

While  it  is  true  that  an  actor  who  fails  to 
state  at  appropriate  intervals  that  he  "just 
loves  people"  might  just  as  well  hand 
in  his  AFTRA  card,  Ralph — who  maintains 
he  is  not  an  actor — charges  the  idea 
with  a  fervor  born  of  his  liking  for  his  new 
assignment  to  The  $64,000  Challenge. 

As  befits  a  man  (Continued  on  page  63) 

Ralph  Story  is  emcee  of  The  $64,000  Challenge, 
seen  over  CBS-TV,  Sundays,  10  P.M.  EST,  as 
sponsored    by    Revlon,    Inc.    and    Kent    Cigarettes. 


HIS  FELLOW  MAN 


On  TV^Lisa  Loughlin,  Doris  Wiss.  At 
a  Copacabana  opening — CBS  veep 
William   Froug,  singer   Roberta   Linn. 


Above — challenger  Frank  Medley, 
champion  Mrs.  Catherine  Kreitzer. 
Below — playgoers  Froug  and  Story. 


After  a  program,  Mrs.  Ruth  Buchholtz, 
Ralph,  Mrs.  Bobbye  O'Rourlce  receive 
the  thanks  of  director  Seymour  Robbie. 


k> 


k^U-tfS© 


Apple  of  Ralph's  eye  is  his  son 
Bradley,  who's  still  in  the  West — 
that's   his   picture   on   Ralph's'  desk. 


Any  home  in  New  York  must  meet 
his  son's  approval.  Ralph  wonders — 
would  Brad  like  Washington  Square? 


Ab 

har 
ide 

ove,    he 

ig   outdoc 
as  at  inc 

E          ^v§  —  m 

*            T7|i'ii  .    L 

helps    artist    Helen    Freitag 
>r  exhibit.    Below,  he  hunts 
oor  Homefurnishings  Show. 

I 

VJ      it^mkt^^^- 

Mark  Saber -at  home 


Between  adventures  as  The  Vise's  heroic  investigator, 

Donald  Gray  relaxes  in  the  quiet  English  countryside 


46 


: 


rr* 


Fan  mail  comes  in  bundles — from  both  Britain  and  Amer- 
ica. Don  answers  it,  and  signs  photos  at  a  Thames  address. 


The  manhunt  was  on  for  more  than  a  year.  The 
"wanted"  was  a  detective-hero  for  The  Vise,  a 
made-in-England  television  series.  The 
searchers  were  producers  Edward  and  Harry 
Danziger,  and  their  bill  of  particulars  was  particular. 
The  crime-crusher  who  wrestles  a  mystery  to  its 
ultimate  end  by  muscle  alone  was  dismissed.  The 
plodding  policeman  was  discarded  as  always  a 
help  but  never  a  hero.  What  the  Danzigers  wanted 
was  a  man  in  the  tradition  of  Sherlock  Holmes — 
but  also  different.  They  wanted  a  sleuth  who  was 
cerebral  but  charming,  a  man  with  breeding 
but  also  with  brawn. 

The  search  led  them  to  Investigator  Mark  Saber, 
handsome,  dashing,  gray-at-the-temples  ex-police 
inspector.  "Born"  as  a  radio  detective,  Mark  Saber 
solves  crimes  that  Scotland  Yard  is  unable  to 
handle.  He  is  hand-in-glove  with  The  Vise  format 
of  dramas  of  people  who  are  faced  with  dilemmas  of 
their  own  making,  rather  than  with  artificially 
created  problems.  Soft-spoken,  firm,  every  inch  the 
man  of  gentle  breeding,  Saber  can  be  as  tough 
as  any  TV  "private  eye,"  often  tougher.  A  skilled 
amateur  painter  and  a  collector  of  rare  books, 
he  is  equally  expert  at  boxing  and  judo.  He  is 
fascinating  to  women — and  he  is  also  a  man's  man. 

Once  they'd  settled  on  the  character  of  their 
detective,  the  producers  went  searching  for  an  actor 
who  could  fill  the  role.  The  answer  presented 
itself  in  the  person  of  Donald  Gray — all  six  feet 
of  him.  Powerful,  dynamic,  ruggedly  handsome, 
Donald  fitted  every  detail  of  the  detective, 
even  down  to  the  ready  adjustment  both  men 
had  made  to  the  loss  of  an  arm. 

"Saber,"  says  Gray,  "is  first  of  all  a  man  of  the 
world."  Much  the  same  can  be  said  of  the 


They  drive  on  the  left,  then  wife  Sheila  and  Don  confer 
on  what's  the  right  side  of  the  road  for  a  weekend  jaunt. 


Donald  loves  being  Mark  Saber.  They're  so  alike.  But  Don 
know  he's  luckier.  After  all,  he  has  Sheila  and   Loretta. 


See  Next  Page   m 


47 


Mark  Saber -at  home 


(Continued) 


Visits  from  The  Vise  cast  are  the  order  of  the  weekends. 
This  weekend,  it  was  Magda  Miller  whom  Don  welcomed. 


The  Vise,  starring  Donald  Gray  as  Investigator  Mark  Saber,  is 
seen  on  ABC-TV,  Fridays  at  9 :30  P.M.  EST.  It  is  sponsored  by 
Bayer  Aspirin,  Phillips'  Milk  of  Magnesia,  and  other  products. 


Television  is  a  hard  taskmaster,  with  scripts  to  go  over 
even  on   a   weekend.   Later,   they   might  visit  Ascot. 


dark-haired,  gray-eyed  actor.  Born  forty-two  years 
ago  on  his  father's  ostrich  farm  in  Cape  Province, 
South  Africa,  Don  came  to  England  to  round  out  his 
education.  Like  Saber,  he  received  his  degree  at 
Cambridge,  and  also  studied  in  Paris,  Rome,  and 
Zurich.  Drama  was  his  constant  preoccupation  and  he 
joined  an  English  repertory  company,  then  went  on 
to  London  stage  and  films.  Then  came  World  War  II. 
Volunteering  immediately,  Don  worked  his  way  up 
through  the  soldiering  ranks  to  become  a  major, 
commanding  a  battalion  of  the  King's  Own  Scottish 
Borderers.  While  leading  an  advance  party  in  the 
Battle  of  Normandy,  Don  was  wounded  in  fierce  ac- 
tion. His  left  arm  had  to  be  amputated.  Don  permitted 
himself  no  feeling  of  self-pity.  He  was  more  deter- 
mined than  ever  to  become  an  actor. 

To  keep  himself  in  crumpets  and  tea,  the  handsome 
Englishman  went  back  to  repertory.  There,  he  was 
re-discovered  in  1951  and  cast  with  Linda  Darnell 
and  Tab  Hunter  in  "Island  of  Desire."  The  film 
brought  him  roles  in  British  television  and  also  in- 
troduced him  to  his  current  alter  ego,  Mark  Saber. 

In  addition  to  his  active  career,  Don  is  a  remarka- 
bly active  sportsman.  Before  his  injury,  he  was  a 
member  of  the  British  Olympics  team  of  1936,  as  a 
175-pound  boxer.  He  still  plays  a  good  game  of 
tennis,  swims,  rides  and  hunts.  For  his  Mark  Saber 
role,  he  has  become  expert  at  judo. 

And,  lately,  Don  has  become  expert  at  juggling 
such  things  as  formula,  safety  pins  and  three- 
cornered  bits  of  clothing.  The  object  of  these  atten- 
tions is  Loretta,  the  infant  daughter  whom  Don  and 
his  lovely  wife  Sheila  welcomed  last  February.  The 
Grays  make  their  home  in  the  Thames  countryside, 
near    famed    Ascot.    The    roof    of    their    house    is 


1 


48 


Teatime  finds   Magda,    Don   and   Sheila    around    the 
hearth,  with  talk  as  brisk  as  Britain's  national  beverage. 


thatched,  its  hearth  is  its  heart,  and  it  has  become  a 
center  for  weekend  visits  by  The  Vise  cast. 

One  of  the  most  frequent  visitors  is  America's 
Diana  Decker,  who  plays  Mark  Saber's  girl  Friday, 
Stephanie  Ames.  Patrick  Holt,  Ryck  Rydon,  Alexan- 
der Knox  and  Donald  Wolfit  are  among  the  many 
top-drawer  actors  who  appear  from  time  to  time  on 
The  Vise — and  at  the  Grays'  cottage.  Magda  Miller,  a 
Hungarian  beauty,  frequently  drives  out  to  polish  up 
her  near-perfect  English  or  go  over  scripts  with  Don. 

The  Grays  are  perfect  hosts,  from  the  warm  greet- 
ing at  the  door  to  the  special  outings  which  they 
thoughtfully  plan  for  their  guests.  A  visitor  immedi- 
ately becomes  part  of  their  happy  family  circle.  Don, 
who  is  an  amateur  chef,  may  whip  up  one  of  his 
gourmet  specialties  while  Sheila  proudly  shows  off 
their  daughter.  Everybody  will  meet  again  for  tea 
and  talk.  Donald  Gray,  is  at  home  with  himself,  at 
ease  with  Mark  Saber — and  at  peace  with  the  world. 


Scrapbooks  tell  the  story  of  an  actor's  life.   Don's  hold 
items  on  his  war  exploits  as  well  as  his  dramatic  successes. 


When  Teal  Ames,  young  actress  on  Edge  Of  Night,  looks  into 
the  mirror  she  sees  Sara  Lane— the  girl  you've  grown  to  know  and 
love  in  the  daytime  drama.  This  is  the  story  of  both  of  them 


50 


For  her  debut  as  Sara,  Teal  went 
shopping.  But  she  bought  only  shoes! 


Teal  was  more  nervous  at  Chrys's  debut. 
Then  her  poodle  began  to  steal  scenes. 


Now  it's  a  one-room  apartment.    But 
Teal  dreams  of  a  home — and  a  family. 


By  MARY  TEMPLE 

When  Teal  Ames  went  home  recently  to  visit  her  family 
in  Binghamton,  New  York,  she  found  herself  in  an  odd, 
although  not  unpleasing,  predicament:   She  had  already  ' 
become  so  thoroughly  identified  with  Sara  Lane,  the  girl  she 
plays  in  the  CBS-TV  daytime  drama,  The  Edge  Of  Night, 
that  old  school  friends  and  the  neighbors  were  beginning  to  think 
of  her  more  as  Sara  than  as  Teal!    Even  her  small  nephew, 
when  asked  who  was  coming  home  that  day,  had  pointed 
a  chubby  finger  toward  the  TV  set  and  answered,  "Edganight" — 
identifying  her  completely  with  the  popular  program  itself, 
much  to  the  family's  amusement. 

To  Teal,  all  of  this  was  interesting,  and  most  complimentary. 
It  meant  that  she  had  fitted  naturally  and  easily  into  the  part 
pf  Sara,  a  girl  she  began  to  play     (Continued  on  page  68) 


f/iwr 


TV  star  John  Larkin  turns  audience  for  Teal's 
piano  (above).  All  the  cast  turn  admirers  for 
Chrys.  L.  to  r.:  Eric  Dressier,  Helen  Shields, 
young  Beverly  Lundsford  (Martin,  Hester,  Bebe 
Spode),  Ian  Martin  (Charley  Brooks),  Frank 
Campanella  (Wilburn  Smith),  John  (Mike  Karr). 


The  Edge  Of  Night  is  seen  on  CBS-TV,  Monday  thru 
Friday  from  4:30  to  5  P.M.  EST,  sponsored  by  Procter 
&  Gamble  for  Tide,  Crest,  Camay,  Spic  and  Span. 


51 


For  her  debut  as  Sara,  Teal  went         Teal  was  more  nervous  at  Chrys's  debut, 
shopping.  But  she  bought  only  shoes!         Then  her  poodle  began  to  steal  scenes. 


By  MARY  TEMPLE 

When  Teal  Ames  went  home  recently  to  visit  her  family 
in  Binghamton,  New  York,  she  found  herself  in  an  odd, 
although  not  unpleasing,  predicament:  She  had  already  ' 
become  so  thoroughly  identified  with  Sara  Lane,  the  girl  she 
plays  in  the  CBS-TV  daytime  drama,  The  Edge  Of  Night, 
that  old  school  friends  and  the  neighbors  were  beginning  to  think 
of  her  more  as  Sara  than  as  Teal!    Even  her  small  nephew, 
when  asked  who  was  coming  home  that  day,  had  pointed 
a  chubby  finger  toward  the  TV  set  and  answered,  "Edganight"— 
identifying  her  completely  with  the  popular  program  itself, 
much  to  the  family's  amusement. 

To  Teal,  all  of  this  was  interesting,  and  most  complimentary. 
It  meant  that  she  had  fitted  naturally  and  easily  into  the  part 
of  Sara,  a  girl  she  began  to  play     (Continued  on  page  68) 


Now  it's  a  one-room  apartment.    But 
Teal  dreams  of  a  home — and  a  family. 


When  Teal  Ames,  young  actress  on  Edge  Of  Night,  looks  into 
the  mirror  she  sees  Sara  Lane-the  girl  you've  grown  to  know  and 
love  in  the  daytime  drama.  This  is  the  story  of  both  of  them 


50 


TV  star  John  Larkin  turns  audience  for  Teal's 
piano  (above).  All  the  cast  turn  admirers  for 
Chrys  L  to  r.:  Eric  Dressier,  Helen  Shields, 
young  Beverly  Lundsford  (Martin,  Hester,  Bebe 
Soode)  Ian  Martin  (Charley  Brooks),  Frank 
Campanella  (Wilburn  Smith),  John  (Mike  Karr). 


Th,  Edge  Of  Night  is  seen  on  CBS-TV,  Monday  thru 
Say  from  4:30  to  5  P.M.  EST,  sponsored  by  Procter 
&  Gamble  for  Tide,  Crest,  Camay,  Sp.c  and  Span. 


51 


To  Nora  Drake — as  to  any  woman  in  lov€ 
the  most  important  thing  in  life  is  the  peace  of 
mind  of  her  man.  David  Brown,  the  young  crime 
reporter  who  has  come  to  mean  so  much  to  Nora,  is 
eminently  successful.  His  years  of  work  for  publish- 
ing tycoon  Allen  Miller  have  brought  him  many  re- 
wards. But  they  have  not  brought  him  peace.  The 
deep  inner  disturbance  he  suffers  is  tied  up  inextric- 
ably with  a  long-past  murder.  A  murder  cold-blooded- 
ly committed  thirty  years  age.  The  victim:  Jerome 
Joss,    friend    and    associate    of   David's    parents — and 


I.  Allen  Miller  shows  his  first  wife's  death  certificate  to  his  present  wife, 
Diana,  Mrs.  Janis  Graf,  Nora  Drake,  David  Brown — crime  reporter  with  a  personal 
interest  in  the  long-ago  Joss  murder — and   Robert,   Mrs.  Graf's  jealous  husband. 


circumstantial  evidence  had  eventually  resulted  in 
the  conviction  of  David's  father  and  mother  as  the 
plotters  of  the  crime. 

To  the  people  of  Centerville,  the  murder  had  long 
since  been  dimmed  by  time.  But  to  David  Brown — 
from  the  moment  he  learned  about  it,  at  the  deathbed 
of  the  foster  father  whose  name  he  bore — it  continued 
a  bitter  disgrace,  constantly  renewed  in  mind  by  his 
work  as  a  crime  reporter.  He  has  continued  digging 
into  the  evidence  of  the  Joss  case,  convinced  that  his 
parents  were  innocent.  It  is  his  dearest  wish  to  exon- 


52 


0\ 


2.  Nora,  private  detective  Jim  Smith  and  David  decide 
to  investigate.  They  suspect  the  certificate  is  forged 
— and  that  Janis  Graf  is  really  the  first  Mrs.   Miller. 


erate  them,  though  their  sentences  have  long  since 
been  served. 

With  Nora  Drake's  help,  David  has  been  tracking 
down  any  clue  to  Joss's  murderer.  And,  during  the 
past  few  weeks,  the  devious  trail  has  led  to  one  man 
David  most  admired — his  own  employer,  Allen  Miller! 
The  known  facts  on  Miller  had  semed  above  re- 
proach: As  a  young  man  in  Centerville,  he  had  worked 
for  the  local  paper.  He  had  married,  prospered,  was  a 
solid  member  of  the  community.  His  wife  had  been 
killed  in  an  automobile  accident — a  tragic  happening 
which  led  him  out  of  Centerville  to  the  big  city  where 
he  grew  ever  more  powerful.  He  had  eventually  re- 
married and,  to  the  cosmopolitan  world  of  the  big 
city,  the  events  of  his  first  marriage  were  unknown. 

But  to  David  Brown  came  the  dawning  of  suspicion. 
Had  Miller  known  Joss?  How  had  he  so  suddenly 
been  able  to  finance  the  publishing  empire  he  now 
commanded?  Joss  had  been  known  to  have  a  substan- 
tial amount  of  money  with  him  at  the  time  he  was 
killed,  but  it  had  never  been  found.  And  now  a  weird 
development  had  come  about:  Mrs.  Janis  Graf,  a  city 
woman  married  to  Robert  Graf — a  neurotic,  unstable 
man — had  been  accused  of  being  Miller's  first  wife,  so 
long  believed  dead! 

To  answer  this  accusation,  and  to  allay  Robert 
Graf's  violent  jealousy,  Janis  arranged  to  visit  Allen 
Miller's  home,  accompanied  by  her  husband  and  Nora 
and  David.  There,  Miller  proved  to  be  his  usual  suave, 
cordial  self.  If  he  sensed  the  thinly  masked  hostility 
of  Robert  Graf,  he  showed  no  sign  of  it.  He  seemed  not 
to  notice  Graf's  agitation.  For  all  in  the  room,  he  pro- 
duced what  seemed  to  be  positive  evidence  that  his 
first  marriage  had  ended  in  the  accidental  death  of 
his  wife.  The  photostat  of  the  death  certificate  bore  a 
doctor's  signature.  It  stated  the  facts  of  death  in  terse 
legal  language.  Yet,  to  both  Nora  and  David,  alert  to 
catch  any  revealing  reactions,  it  seemed  that  a  look 
of  recognition  had  flashed  between  Janis  Graf  and 
Allen  Miller.  The  two  knew  each  other,  much  as  they 
tried  to  hide  it.  And  what  about  the  death  certificate? 


Nora  and  David  investigate  the 
identity  of  a  woman  long  believed 
dead — to  help  clear  his  father's 
name  in  the  Jerome  Joss  murder  case! 


3.  Mrs.  Graf  is  firm  in  her  denials.  But  Mrs.  Joss,  the 
murdered  man's  widow,  whispers  to  Nora  and  David 
she    is    sure   Janis    is   the    Mrs.    Miller   she    once    knew. 


Was  it  genuine?  Nora  believed  it  might  be  a  forgery. 
After  this  strained  meeting,  Nora  and  David  went 
to  see  Jim  Smith,  a  private  detective  whose  judgment 
they  trusted,  and  asked  his  opinion  of  the  photostatic 
record  of  Mrs.  Miller's  death.  He  said  there  was  al- 
ways the  chance  that  the  document  might  have  been 
forged — a  difficult  thing  to  arrange,  but  not  impossible 
for  a  man  of  Miller's  influence  and  money.  Jim  Smith 
agreed  to  go  to  Centerville  to  check  back  into  the  old 
records  and  determine  the  facts  on  the  accidental 
death. 

Continued 


53 


This  Is  IVora  I>jr»jkc* 


(Continued) 


Nora  and  David  continued  to  seek  out  other  links 
between  Janis  Graf,  Allen  Miller  and  the  old  Center- 
ville  events.  They  had  succeeded  in  locating  Jerome 
Joss's  widow,  now  living  quietly  and  supporting  her- 
self by  work  as  a  librarian.  It  occurs  to  them  that  Mrs. 
Joss— a  Centerville  resident  at  the  time  of  her  hus- 
band's murder — might  have  met  Allen  Miller's  first 
wife.  If  Janis  Graf's  story  is  true,  Mrs.  Joss  could  not 
identify  her.  But,  if  Janis  is  Miller's  first  wife,  Mrs. 
Joss  may  be  able  to  break  her  story. 

They  arrange  with  Mrs.  Joss  to  make  an  unexpected 
visit  to  the  Grafs — a  visit  which  proves  to  be  the  key 
to  unlock  and  let  loose  a  series  of  dire  developments. 
Because  Mrs.  Joss  does  recognize  in  Janis  the  girl  she 
knew  so  long  ago  as  Mrs.  Allen  Miller!  But,  as  previ- 
ously agreed  upon  with  Nora  and  David,  she  doesn't 
reveal  this  fact  in  front  of  Janis's  unpredictable  hus- 
band. Robert  Graf  had  once  come  very  near  to  mur- 
dering his  wife  in  an  excess  of  jealous  rage. 


With  the  evidence  against  Janis  piling  up,  Nora  and 
David  maneuver  her  into  making  a  trip  with  them  to 
visit  David's  father,  Jack  McCord,  in  the  prison  where 
he  is  currently  being  held  on  suspicion  in  connection 
with  still  another  murder.  Manifestly  upset  and  nerv- 
ous, Janis  holds  up  throughout  the  trip  there.  But, 
when  Jack  McCord  confronts  her,  she  breaks  down 
completely.  Through  tears,  she  says,  "I  can't  keep  going 
any  longer.  .  .  .  It's  true.  It's  true — all  of  it  ...  I 
was  the  first  Mrs.  Allen  Miller." 

Nora  and  David  then  make  a  plea  for  a  showdown 
meeting,  at  which  her  story  can  be  judged  in  relation 
to  people  involved  in  the  old  days  in  Centerville.  It  is 
arranged  at  the  home  of  David's  mother,  Mrs.  McCord 
— and  even  Mr.  McCord  is  in  attendance,  in  the  cus- 
tody of  a  police  officer.   Janis  unfolds  a  strange  story. 

When  she  was  married  to  Allen  Miller  and  living 
in  Centerville,  Janis  suspected  her  husband  of  being 
unfaithful   to   her.    Their   marriage   had    gone    badly 


4.  Confronted  by  David's  father,  Jack  McCord,  in  the  jail  where  he  is  held, 
Janis  Graf  breaks  down  and  confesses:  "I  was  the  first  Mrs.  Allen  Miller!" 
As  Nora  and  David  suspected,  her  testimony  about  the  Joss  murder  is  vital. 


54 


5.  Does  David  now  hold  the  key  to  the  entire  mystery?  Nora,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  McCord 
are  astounded  as  a  tearful  Janis  gives  up  a  ring  she'd  found  in  Miller's  pocket — - 
and  Mrs.  Joss  identifies  it  as  the  one  her  husband  carried  when  he  was  murdered! 


from  the  beginning,  and  she  thought  Allen  had  fallen 
in  love  with  someone  else.  On  the  night  of  the  murder 
of  Jerome  Joss,  Allen  did  not  return  home.  He  came 
home  the  following  evening,  seemingly  exhausted,  and 
fell  into  a  deep  sleep.  Janis,  dogged  by  jealousy,  went 
through  her  husband's  clothing  to  find  clues  to  "the 
other  woman."  Perhaps  she  could  discover  evidence 
which  would  lead  to  a  divorce.  The  only  clue  she  came 
across  was  a  woman's  ring  with  one  of.  the  stones 
missing.  At  the  moment  she  had  it  in  her  hand,  Allen 
Miller  awoke.  Rather  than  admit  what  she  had  been 
doing,  Janis  concealed  the  ring.  That  evening,  Allen 
and  Janis  had  a  final  falling-out,  and  Allen  left  her.  .  .  . 

As  she  reaches  this  point  in  her  story,  David  breaks 
in:   "Do  you  still  have  that  ring,  Janis?" 

"Yes,"  she  admits.  "I  have  it.  I've  always  carried 
it,  though  I  never  found  out  whose  it  was."  And  from 
her  bag  she  produces  the  ring. 

David  takes  the  ring  and  examines  it  curiously.  In- 
side the  golden  band  he  reads  the  inscription,  "To 
Mary  with  love,  J." 

But  it  is  Mrs.  Joss  whose  reaction  is  violent. 

"That  ring,"  she  cries,  "was  given  to  me  by  my  hus- 
band— and  I  turned  it  over  to  him  to  be  repaired!" 

Shocked,  Janis  Graf  struggles  to  speak.  Finally,  she 
manages  to  say,  "I  never  dreamed  the  ring  belonged 


to  you.  I  never  connected  it  with  the  murder.  I  only 
thought  it  belonged  to  some  woman  Allen  was  play- 
ing around  with.  How  could  Allen  have  gotten  it?" 
As  they  all  fall  silent,  in  each  mind  is  the  same 
thought:  This  ring,  so  small,  so  inanimate — is  it  the 
last  little  link  to  tie  Allen  Miller  to  the  murder  of 
Jerome  Joss?  If  so,  what  will  it  spell  out  for  the  future 
of  David  Brown  .  .  .  and  of  Nora  Drake  herself? 


Pictured  here,  as  heard  on  the  air,  are: 

Nora  Drake Joan  Tompkins 

David  Brown Michael  Kane 

Janis  Graf Alice  Yourman 

Jack  McCord Arthur  Hughe? 

Catherine  McCord Charlcie  Garrett 

Diana  Miller Arline  Blackburn 

Jim  Smith Arthur  Seelen 

Mrs.  Joss Betty  Caine 

This  Is  Nora  Drake  is  heard  over  CBS  Radio,  Monday  through 
Friday,  1  P.M.  EST,  for  The  Toni  Company  and  other  sponsors. 


55 


VEN 


^ 


M 


4 


^H 


Holiday  for  the  young  Newtons  as  Johnny  Olsen  and  George  de  Witt  unveil  dolls  and  dog. 


Not  every  year  does  Christmas 
come  twice!  But  in  1956  it  did — for 
the  Newtons  of  Southboro,  Massachusetts. 
For  on  Name  That  Tune  dolls,  toys  and 
money  rained  down  upon  them 

By  HELEN  BOLSTAD 


When  the  Newton  family's  impromptu  choir  forms 
around  the  Christmas  tree  in  their  home  in 
Southboro,  Massachusetts,  it  will  be  doubled  in  size — if 
not  in  volume.   For  with  the  seven  lovely  little  daughters 
there  will  be  seven  lovely  great  big  dolls — reminders 
that,  for  them,  1956  was  the  year  when  Christmas 
literally  came  twice. 

Their  first  festival  of  gifts  was  in  July,  in  New  York, 
when  the  head  of  the  family,  Edward  Newton,  was  a 
contestant  on  Name  That  Tune.  (Continued  on  page  65) 

Name  That  Tune,  with  George  de  Witt,  CBS-TV,  Tuesday  at  7:30  P.M. 
EST,  for  Whitehall  Pharmacal  (Anacin,  BiSoDol)  and  Lanolin  Plus. 


56 


^  "j.  7 


With  each  quiz  tune,  tension  mounted  for  emcee  George 
de  Witt,  Ed,  and  partner  Helen  Lancaster.  Then  came 
that   fatal   4th    round   and   a   title   they   "almost"    knew. 


Rita  and  Ed  had  a  date  alone  while  Mrs.  Lancaster 
took  charge  of  the  children.  "But  we  got  lonesome," 
reported    Ed.     "A   big   family   must   be   habit   forming." 


One  look  at  the  Newton  line-up  and  New  York  capitulat- 
ed. Left  to  right:  Baby  Edward,  Mother  Rita,  Gloria,  Rita, 
Celia,  Sandra,   Donna,  Barbara,   Papa   Ed,  and   Patricia. 


For  the  delighted  little  girls,  everything  was  exciting, 
from  room  service  at  the  hotel  to  a  wonderful  surprise — 
seven  bridal  dolls  almost  as  big  as  their  new  "mothers." 


RADIO    MIRROR 


Vote  tor  Your  Favorite  PROGRAMS  on  Radio  and  Television 

(Write  name  of  one  program  in  each  column  for  each  classification  except 
the  last  two  designations  at  foot  of  page) 


CLASS 

FAVORITE  RADIO  PROGRAM 

FAVORITE  TV  PROGRAM 

Daytime  Drama 

Evening  Drama 

Daytime  Variety 

Evening  Variety 

Comedy  Program 

Music  Program 

Quiz  Program 

Women's  Program 

Children's  Program 

Mystery  or  Adventure 

Western  Program 

Best  Program  on  Air 

Best  New  Program 

Favorite  TV  Panel  Show, 


Favorite  Radio  Record  Program 


(Cut  out  this  ballot  and  mail  to  TV  RADIO  MIRROR  AWARDS,  Box  1862.  Grand  Central  Station. 
New  York    17,  N.Y.    It  is  not  necessary  to  fill  in  both  radio  and  television  sections  of  this  ballot.) 


Again  in  1956,  TV  RADIO  MIRROR  readers 

can  honor  their  favorite  programs  and  performers  of 

the  year.    Your  votes  decide  the  winners! 


For  ten  years,  the  TV  and  radio  pro- 
grams of  America  have  been  honored  by 
TV  Radio  Mirror  in  their  reader-partici- 
pation poll — which  determines  at  year's 
end  the  favorites  of  all  the  programs  on 
the  air.  The  editors  ask  your  cooperation 
again,  in  selecting  for  them  the  best- 
loved,  the  most  entertaining  of  all  the 
programs  and  players  presented  to  you 
during  1956.  Vote  today!  Ballots  must  be 
postmarked  no  later  than  Dec.  10,  1956. 


58 


L. 


Vote  for  Your  Favorite  STARS  on  Radio  and  Television 

(Write  name  of  one  star  in  each  column  for  each  classification 
except  last  designation  at  foot  of  page) 


CLASS 

FAVORITE   RADIO  STAR 

(specify  show  on  which  star  appears) 

FAVORITE   TV  STAR 

(specify  show  on  which  star  appears) 

Ffmnlo    ^mrj^r 

Cnm^A'irtn 

r.nmP(Jipnnp 

Drnmn+ir  Ar+nr 

Drnmnrlr    Artro«     . 

Dnytimp    Fmree    _,.._ 

Fvpninrj     Fm«» 

Mncirnl  Fmrpp 

QiiiTmn«+Ar 

W«»«fprn    S+nr 

News  Commentator 

SportscrK+pr 

B*»«+    Npw    S+nr        ,  

Favorite  TV  Husband  and  Wife  Team 


(Cut  out  this  ballot  and  mail  to  TV  RADIO  MIRROR   AWARDS,  Box   1862,  Grand   Central   .Station, 
New  York,  17,  N.Y.  It  is  not  necessary  to  fill  in  both   radio  and  television    sections   of  this  ballot.) 


After  the  balloting  is  concluded,  a  staff 
of  independent  tabulators  will  add  up  all 
your  votes.  The  final  results  of  their 
tabulation  will  again  reveal  the  TV  and 
radio  shows  which  have  given  you  most 
pleasure  during  1956.  In  the  star  cate- 
gory you  will  also  be  able  to  honor  the 
men  and  women  who,  by  their  outstand- 
ing talent  and  personalities,  have  won 
your  admiration.  Among  the  categories 
this  year,  you  will  notice  two  new  desig- 


nations: Best  New  Program  and  Best  New 
Star.  Your  votes  in  these  new  categories 
will  put  the  stamp  of  approval  on  some 
newcomers  to  the  entertainment  field,  and 
will  constitute  a  signal  honor.  In  the 
May  issue  of  TV  Radio  Mirror,  a  com- 
plete report  of  the  Award  winnex-s  will 
be  made.  The  editors  will  plan  for  you 
color  pictures  and  exclusive  stories  on 
all  the  Award -winning  shows  and  stars. 
Mail  your  Gold  Medal  ballots  promptly! 


59 


Sets   the   curls   with    a 
cloud  of  hair  spray  .  .  . 


Takes  a  last  look  before 
a  brief  beauty  rest  .  .  . 


60 


Mary  Linn  is  Babby  in  The  Brighter  Day,  CBS-TV,  M-F, 
4  P.M.  EST,  as  sponsored  by  The  Procter  &  Gamble  Co. 


Our  lovely   lady  of  the  evening! 


By  MARY  PARKER  SHERWOOD 

J^ne  of  the  brighter  stars  of  The  Brighter  Day, 
^-^  Mary  Linn  Beller  daily  plays  the  part 
of  an  ingenuous  young  girl  in  love.    In  private 
life,  she  is  a  woman  in  love — with  her  own 
handsome  husband! 

And  so,  no  matter  how  casually  gamine  she 
may  seem  by  day  (like  most  of  us,  she  just 
doesn't  have  time  for  fussy,  formal  effects),  when 
evening  comes,  she  loves  to  look  serene 
and  ladylike  for  her  hero.   Which  is  how  Mary 
Linn  has  come  to  devise  a  quick-change  formula 
for  converting  the  untrammeled  tresses  she 
sports  by  day  into  something  more  becoming 
to  a  lady-after-dark. 

Down  goes  the  sun  and  up  goes  her  hair,  to 
be  smoothly  snared  in  a  gilt  circlet  and  set,  dry, 
in  large,  loose  spiral  curls  which  she  secures 
with  clips.   And  now  she  sprays  her  whole 
head — but  lightly — with  her  favorite  hair  spray. 
As  this  fragrant  halo  dries,  Mary  Linn  "takes 
ten,"  relaxing  a  little  with  her  eyes  closed  and 
her  feet  pillowed  up  for  repose.   Then  she 
swiftly  brushes  the  ends  into  fetching  ringlets 
.  .  .  adds  a  bit  of  ribbon  or  a  froth  of  feathers  .  .  . 
slips  into  a  festive  frock  and  goes  out  to  greet 
her  man — looking  picture-perfect! 


r 


(Continued  from  page   20) 
f  night,  I  was  driving  as  carefully  as  ever, 
on  my  side  of  the  road,  in  complete  con- 
trol of  the  car — and  yet  there  it  was  wait- 
ing for  me.  I  couldn't  escape  it." 

Sunday,  August  5,  had  gone  well.  That 
morning,  Ed  had  left  his  hotel  apartment 
on  Park  Avenue  for  the  air  field  near 
Red  Bank,  New  Jersey.  He  took  a  taxi 
plane  to  McGuire  Air  Force  Base,  where 
The  Ed  Sullivan  Show  was  to  originate. 
I  The  show,  featuring  all  Air  Force  per- 
sonnel, came  off  without  a  hitch. 

"It  was   then  that  the   delays  started," 
Ed  recalls,  "for  I  should  have  been  home 
about    midnight.     But    things    just    con- 
spired, one  by  one,  to  put  us  off  schedule." 
His  wife,  daughter  and  two  grandchil- 
dren were  at  the  farm   in  Southbury,  in 
[  Connecticut.     Ed  phoned  his  wife  to  tell 
t  her  that  he  and  Bob  Precht,  their  son-in- 
:    law,   would   be  flying   up   in   a   small   Air 
Force  plane.     They   would  be  landing   at 
the    airport    in    Bridgeport    and    she    was 
asked  to  meet  them. 

"Well,  the  weather  was  so-so,"  Ed  says. 
"We  were  delayed  at  Operations  a  half- 
hour  while  they  checked  on  conditions. 
;  Then,  when  we  got  in  the  plane,  we  were 
held  up  on  the  runway  another  half -hour 
for  clearance."  Ed  notes,  "I  wasn't  scared 
or  worried.  To  the  contrary,  I  think  I 
had  become  overconfident  about  my  trav- 
eler's luck." 

About  midnight,   they   landed   safely   at 

Bridgeport    and,    by    that    time,    Ed    was 

worried— about  the  pilots.     "It  was  over- 

I  cast.     The  weather  had  been  bad  on  the 

f   way  up.     When  we  landed,  I  asked  the 

',    Air  Force  pilots  to  spend  the  night  at  the 

I  farm.  Captain  Leo  F.  Post,  Jr.  was  pilot, 

>    and  he  explained  that  he  couldn't  do  this 

without  official  permission." 

Ed's    car    was    waiting    at    the    airport. 

His   night  watchman,   Ralph   Cacace,   had 

i    driven  down.     Ed,  Bob  and  Ralph  waited 

with  the  pilots  for  their  orders.     Within 

a  half-hour,  they  received  orders  to  re- 

I  turn.     "But,"  says  Ed,  "the  weather  was 

touch-and-go,    and    it    was    another   spell 

before    they     got     clearance.      Conditions 

I  were  so   delicate   that  they  were   told,   if 

l   they  were  delayed  as  much  as  five  min- 

)    utes    on    the    take-off    from    Bridgeport, 

I   to    call   back    again   for    clearance.     Well, 

i    they    took    off,    but   those    boys    were    on 

our  minds  as  we  drove  home." 

Ed  was  driving  a  1956  Lincoln  hardtop. 

[   His    son-in-law,    Bob    Precht,    26,    a    tall, 

'■   blond  youngster,  sat  at  his  right.  Husky 

t   night  watchman  Ralph  Cacace,  34,  sat  back 

of  Bob  in  the  rear  seat.  They  were  on  the 

|  Naugatuck  Valley  road  to  Seymour  when 

the    accident   happened.    It   is   a   two-lane 

\    road,  and  it  was  a  point  about  fifteen  miles 

I    out   of   Bridgeport    that    they    reached    at 

I   1:25  A.M. 

"Five  seconds  one  way  or  another,  and 
\    we  would  have  been  all  right,"  Ed  says. 
"At    this   particular   point,    there    was    no 
\    room  to  pull  off  the  road."     He  remem- 
bers,   "I   saw   the   car   coming   toward   us 
r    and   then  it  suddenly  swerved   over   into 
our    lane.     At    first,     I    thought    it    was 
'•    a   hot-rodder    playing    'chicken.'     Well,    I 
pulled  as  far  over  on  my  side  as  I  could 
get,   because   I   didn't   want   to   play.   The 
other    car     swerved    more    violently,    as 
:    though     the     driver     had     lost     control. 
;    Crashed   into   us,  head   on." 

Ed's  wife  Sylvia  and  his  daughter  Betty 
had  been  at  the  farm  all  that  Sunday.  A 
I  friend  of  Betty's  was  visiting,  and  in  the 
,  evening  all  three  watched  Ed's  show.  The 
[  grandchildren,  Robbie,  three-plus,  and 
•  Carla,  one-plus,  were  asleep.  Shortly 
t  after  the  show,  Ed  put  through  his  phone 
i   call   from   the   air  base   and   asked   Sylvia 


The  Great  Big  "If" 

to    meet    him    at    the    Bridgeport    airport. 

"Mother  can't  drive  to  the  airport 
alone,"  Betty  had  said,  for  it  is  close  to 
an  hour's  drive  from  the  farm.  "I'll  come 
down  with  her,"  Betty  added. 

"You  can't,"  said  Sylvia.  "There's  no 
one  to  stay  with  the  children." 

Ed,  at  his  end  of  the  line,  settled  the  dis- 
cussion by  saying,  "Tell  Ralph  Cacace  to 
drive  my  car  down  and  pick  us  up." 

Then  Betty's  friend  left,  and  Betty  said 
she  would  go  on  up  to  sleep.  She  had 
had  a  full  day  with  the  children  and  was 
tired,  but  she  couldn't  rest.  At  midnight, 
she  came  down  to  the  living  room.  Sylvia 
was  lying  on  the  sofa. 

"I'm  nervous,"  Betty  said.  "Bob  and 
Dad  should  have  been  in  by  now."  And, 
looking  back,  she  recalls,  "It  was  the 
small    plane    that    worried    me." 

Sylvia  suggested  that  her  daughter  get 
a  blanket  and  curl  up  on  the  other  sofa. 
She  said,  "You  know  Daddy.  I've  spent 
half  my  life  worrying  about  him  getting 
somewhere  safely,  and  he's  always  been 
all  right." 

But,  at  1:40  A.M.,  Betty  began  to  com- 
fort her  mother — for  it  was  then  that  the 
phone  call  came  in:  "Your  husband  has 
been  in  an  accident,  Mrs.  Sullivan.  We're 
taking  him  to  the  hospital."  It  was  as- 
sumed in  that  moment  that  Ed  had  been 
the  only  one  hurt.  Sylvia  woke  Maurice 
Bacon,  the  farmer  on  their  property.  He 
came  over  to  drive  them  to  the  hospital 
while  his  wife  stayed  with  the  children. 

"Just  before  the  impact,"  Ed  now  re- 
calls, "there  was  a  kind  of  detachment. 
But  only  for  a  moment — and  then  you 
knew  it  was  happening  to  you,  from  the 
noise.  The  noise  was  terrible — renting, 
tearing,  screaming  of  metal — it  was  as 
though  Dante's  Inferno  had  burst  on  you. 
I'd  never  lost  consciousness  but  I  thought 
it  was  just  about  the  end." 

The  crash  was  then  history,  just  seconds 
old,  but  a  fact.  Ed's  car  had  been  hit 
by  a  1953  Pontiac,  driven  by  Joseph  Pal- 
mucci,  twenty-two,  of  Ansonia.  Both 
cars  had  been  demolished,  but  the  driving 


No  Less  Precious 


Dear  Friends: 

November  11  to 
22  is  National  Re- 
tarded Children's 
Week.  Three  out 
of  every  hundred 
children  born  are 
retarded  children. 
But  they  are  no 
less  precious.  With 
help,  many  can 
lead  useful,  happy 
lives.  On  a  national  level,  the  National 
Association  for  Retarded  Children  needs 
funds  for  educating  the  public,  for  re- 
search and  prevention.  On  a  local  level, 
its  funds  go  to  nursery  schools,  day  care, 
summer  camps  and  diagnostic  facilities. 
When  they  hang  out  their  Help  Wanted 
sign,  don't  fail  them.  Not  to  help  is  to 
hurt.  Send  your  contributions  to  Re- 
tarded   Children,   c/o   your   postmaster. 

JACK  BENNY 

Honorary  Nat'l  Fund  Drive  Chairman 
Nat'l.    Assn.    for    Retarded    Children 


area  of  the  Lincoln  lived  up  to  Ed's  com- 
mercials. 

"I  heard  Bob  calling,  'For  God's  sake, 
Ed,  help  get  Ralph  off  me,' "  Ed  remem- 
bers. Cacace  had  been  catapulted  from  the 
rear  to  the  front.  "Ralph  is  a  big  husky 
guy  and  I  couldn't  help.  I  couldn't  even 
raise  my  hand.  But  I  could  see  Ralph,  and 
his  left  arm  was  streaming  blood." 

Help  was  there  instantly.  Other  driv- 
ers stopped.  A  man  held  Ed's  head  in  his 
lap.  And  Ed  wrote  in  his  column,  a  week 
later:  "There  was  a  young  girl  who  sat 
in  the  road  next  to  me,  disregarding  her 
party  frock,  holding  my  hand  while  we 
waited  for  an  ambulance.  I  was  gasping 
for  breath  and  she  said:  'Just  take  little 
breaths  and  it  won't  hurt  you  so  much.' 
She  paid  no  mind  to  the  blood  that  was 
leaking  onto  her  dress  and  spoiling  it. 
I'll  never  forget  these  expositions  of 
human  nature.  When  a  fellow  needs  a 
friend,  the  friends  are  on  hand,  com- 
plete strangers." 

The  girl — her  name  is  Sue  Mills — had 
been  equally  impressed  by  Ed's  bravery. 
His  concern  was  for  the  others  and  for 
his  family.  He  asked  a  stranger  to  call 
Sylvia,  then  added,  "Be  sure  to  tell  her 
it's  nothing  serious,  for  she  and  my 
daughter  will  be  terrified."  He  even 
made  a  joke.  He  told  Sue  Mills,  "Now,  on 
TV,  I'll  have  a  legitimate  reason  for  not 
smiling."  He  wanted  to  be  reassured  that 
the  others  in  the  accident  would  survive. 

"I  thought  I  was  a  goner,"  Ed  says. 
"My  chest  felt  as  if  it  were  caved  in.  I 
couldn't  breathe.  They  explained  to  me, 
at  the  hospital,  that  it  was  because  of  the 
tremendous  blow  to  the  heart." 

The  incidents  and  details  were  hazy  .  .  . 
the  flashlights  poking  around  and  catch- 
ing his  face  from  time  to  time  .  .  .  the 
smoke  from  the  battered  engines  .  .  .  the 
doctor  trying  to  attend  to  all  four  vic- 
tims .  .  .  the  distant  whine  of  sirens  and 
the  shrill  police  whistles.  In  the  mean- 
time, Sylvia  and  Betty  were  having  a  bad 
time.  The  phone  call  had  advised  that 
Ed  and  Bob  would  be  taken  to  the  St. 
Mary  Hospital  in  Waterbury,  fifteen  miles 
away.  When  they  got  there,  they  found 
that  the  victims  were  at  Griffin  Hospital  in 
Derby — which  was  on  the  other  side  of 
the  farm,  so  they  had  to  drive  an  addi- 
tional thirty  miles.  But  it  was  at  St.  Mary 
Hospital  that  they  first  learned  Bob  had 
been  injured  too.  At  that  point,  Sylvia 
began  comforting  Betty   again. 

Betty  is  a  very  pretty  brunette  who 
closely  resembles  her  mother.  She  is 
the  Sullivans'  only  child,  much  admired 
and  loved  by  her  parents.  As  a  child, 
she  had  always  traveled  with  her  parents, 
and  the  three  comprise  a  close  family. 
Betty  met  her  husband  while  attending 
U.C.L.A.  The  first  years  of  their  mar- 
riage were  spent  with  Bob  in  the  Navy — 
after  his  Pacific  sea  duty,  Bob  was  as- 
signed to  Navy  Intelligence.  He  now 
works  for  CBS  and,  with  their  children,  he 
and  Betty  make  their  home  in  Scarsdale. 
During  the  summer,  they  are  frequent 
guests  at  Ed's   farm. 

"They  looked  awful  when  we  first  saw 
them.  They  were  so  battered,  bloody 
and  bruised,"  says  Betty.  "Bob  had  to 
have  eighteen  stitches  in  his  chin  alone. 
When  I  got  to  the  hospital,  he  was  in  the 
emergency  room  and  they  were  sewing 
him  up.  But,  you  know,  the  first  thing 
he  said  to  me  was,  'Betty,  it  wasn't  your 
father's  fault.'  Then  he  began  to  cuss  T 
I  again,   as  the   sewing  went  on."  v 

Besides  the  deep  cuts,  Bob  Precht  suf-    R 
fered  a  double  fracture  of  the  leg.  Ralph 
Cacace    suffered    a    bad    concussion.    The 
driver    of   the    other    car    that    came    into 

61 


their  lane  was  in  a  cast  with  a  dislocated 
hip  and  jaw  fracture. 

Sylvia  and  Betty  spent  the  night  at  the 
hospital.  Because  of  chest  injuries,  Ed 
constantly  got  alcohol  rubs  to  stave  off 
pneumonia.  There  were  X-rays  and  car- 
diographs to  be  taken.  And  havoc  broke 
out  at  the  Derby  Western  Union  office  and 
on  the  hospital  switchboard.  Phone  calls 
came  in  from  every  part  of  the  United 
States,  and  from  London,  Rome,  Paris. 
Telegrams  came  in  such  numbers  the 
local  police  were  pressed  into  service  by 
the  wire  operator  to  make  hourly  deliver- 
ies. One  of  the  first  telegrams  was  from 
Captain  Post,  the  Air  Force  pilot.  He 
wired,   "and  you  were  worried  about  us 

GETTING    HOME    LAST    NIGHT." 

A  priest  called  in  the  morning  and 
asked  after  Ed.  "Thank  you  for  coming, 
Father,"  said  Ed.  "Last  night  you  asked 
me  to  come  back  this  morning,"  the  priest 
replied.  "I  don't  remember,"  Ed  admitted, 
"but  may  I  have  Confession  and  Com- 
munion while  you're  here?" 

Griffin  Hospital,  in  Derby,  Connecticut, 
is  a  small  hospital,  for  it  serves  a  rural 
community.  Ed  was  its  first  celebrity. 
Vincent  DeLucca,  administrator  of  Griffin, 
said:  "Celebrity  or  not,  Ed  is  one  of  the 
best  patients  we've  ever  had."  Some- 
times celebrities  have  a  way  of  taking  over 
a  hospital.  They  require  special  services 
and  extra  attention.  They  aren't  satisfied 
with  the  diagnosis  and  advice  of  the  hos- 
pital's doctors.  They  want  specialists 
flown  in  from  New  York  or  Boston  or 
other  big  cities.  Ed  made  no  such  de- 
mands. He  was  so  cooperative  that,  when 
he  left  the  hospital,  his  doctor  said,  "I 
owe  you  a  dinner  for  making  things  so 
easy  for  us." 

1  here  was,  perhaps,  one  exception  to 
Ed's  following  the  doctor's  advice.  Ed 
asked  to  have  Bob,  his  son-in-law,  in  the 
same  room  for  the  first  couple  of  days. 
The  doctor  didn't  wholly  approve,  for  he 
thought  both  would  rest  better  if  sepa- 
rated— Ed  would  look  at  Bob  with  such 
anguish.  "Ed  is  tenderhearted,"  Sylvia 
explains.  "He  is  always  concerned  about 
someone  else.  He  was  continually  wor- 
ried about  the  others  in  the  accident." 

And  then  the  "if"  period  began,  even 
though  there  was  substantial  proof  that 
the  other  driver  had  been  in  Ed's  lane. 
The  police  said  this  was  proven  by  tire 
marks,  and  photographs  verified  it.  Auto- 
motive engineers,  who  flew  out  from  De- 
troit to  check  the  accident,   said  that  Ed 


had  done  a  magnificent  job  of  driving. 
That  he  had  kept  the  car  in  control  to  the 
last  instant.  That,  if  he  had  swung  to  the 
right  or  left,  they  would  have  been  killed. 
As  it  was,  the  greatest  impact  was  ab- 
sorbed by  the  heaviest  part  of  the  car. 
Ed  had  survived  the  accident  because  he 
drives  in  a  slumped  position,  by  habit, 
and  because  his  car  was  equipped  with  a 
safety  steering  wheel.  But  Ed  kept 
"iffing"  for  days. 

"He  would  lie  there,"  Sylvia  recalls, 
"and  say,  'Now  if  only  Bob  hadn't  been 
sitting  where  he  was,  he  wouldn't  have 
slashed  his  face  on  the  mirror.'  Or,  'If 
I  hadn't  spent  that  extra  three  minutes  on 
the  phone  .  .  .'  This  went  on  and  on. 
Finally,  I  said  to  Ed,  'If  your  uncle  had 
curls,  he'd  be  your  aunt.'  And  he  began 
to  laugh,  as  he  realized  how  ridiculous 
the  iffing  was." 

Ed  and  Bob  were  discharged  from 
Griffin  within  a  week,  for  Sylvia  per- 
suaded the  doctor  that  they  would  be  able 
to  give  them  good  care  on  the  farm.  But 
they  weren't  home  long.  Bob  had  a  spiral 
break  of  the  leg.  The  cast  had  been 
ineffectual,  and  a  surgeon  had  to  operate 
and  literally  screw  the  bones  together. 
And  then  there  was  the  day  Ed  got  an- 
other scare. 

"I  thought  everything  was  going  along 
fine,"  he  says.  "About  the  sixth  day  out 
of  the  hospital,  I  got  some  pain  but  I 
thought  this  was  from  overdoing  my  con- 
valescence. Then,  at  dusk  of  that  day, 
I  learned  that  I  had  pneumonia.  Hospital 
X-rays  showed  there  was  a  pool  of  water 
under  one  lung.  Dr.  Bloomer  just  put  in  a 
needle  and  drew  it  out.  I  couldn't  even 
feel  it,  but  they  took  out  20  cc.  of  water." 

Ed  is  a  man  with  tremendous  drive.  He 
doesn't  give  in  easily  to  headaches  or 
other  localized  pains.  After  the  accident, 
he  asked  to  have  a  phone  at  his  bedside 
to  conduct  business.  He  announced  he 
would  continue  his  column.  He  predicted 
that  he  wouldn't  miss  a  TV  show.  He 
was  wrong — and  the  enforced  conva- 
lescence gave  him  time  to  think. 

"I  began  to  see  the  show  as  I  never  had 
before,"  he  says.  "You  know,  I've  had 
no  vacations,  really.  When  I've  been 
away  from  the  show,  I've  usually  been 
abroad  filming  for  a  future  program.  But, 
during  my  convalescence,  I  actually  sat 
before  the  TV  receiver  and  studied  our 
show  as  viewers  see  it.  I  saw  that  there 
was  too  much  concern  about  the  eight 
hundred  people  in  the  studio.  The  camera 
work  was  manipulated  so  as  to  interfere 


62 


The  Hunger  of  a  Man 
away  from  Home . . . 

You  never  can  tell  what  a  man  or  a  wo- 
man is  likely  to  do  when  deep  human 
emotions  are  involved.  But  you  find  out 
by  listening  to  the  radio  program  "My 
True  Story".  For  this  program  is  based 
upon  stories  taken  right  from  the  files 
of  True  Story  Magazine.  These  stories 
are  not  fiction.  They  deal  with  the  lives 
of  real  people — deal  with  them  in  such  a 
revealing — sometimes  almost  shocking — 
way  that  they  make  stirring  listening. 

TUNE  IN  EVERY  MORNING  TO 

MY    TRUE    STORY 

American  Broadcasting  Stations 

"We    were    hounded    by    my    husband's    crime."     Read    "No    Place    To    Hide"    in 
December   TRUE    STORY  magazine — at   newsstands    now. 


as  little  as  possible  with  the  vision  of  the 
studio  audience.  Well,  there  are  millions 
sitting  in  their  living  rooms."  Ed  smiles 
and  says,  "Of  course,  I  always  knew  they 
were  there,  but  I  hadn't  seen  this  techni- 
cal discrepancy." 

Ed  has  always  been  sensitive  to  the 
public's  wishes,  but  he  has  always  held 
the  initiative.  He  has  brought  to  tele- 
vision arts  and  artists  considered  "non- 
commercial" by  others.  He  has  presented 
excerpts  from  opera,  scenes  from  so- 
called  hish-brow  plays,  Moira  Shearer  in 
ballet,  Charles  Laughton's  Bible  readings, 
and  such  concert  soloists  as  Yehudi 
Menuhin.  And  the  public  enjoyed  all  of 
it.  On  the  other  hand,  Ed  is  responsive 
to  the  public's  demands  and  that  was  the 
case  when  he  contracted  Elvis  Presley. 

"NBC  was  trying  to  knock  me  off,"  he 
smiles.  "They  had  spent  twenty-five 
million  dollars  trying.  They  weren't  get- 
ting anywhere.  Then  they  came  in 
against  me  with  Elvis  Presley  on  a  night 
when  I  had  a  fabulous  show — Gregory 
Peck,  Lauren  Bacall,  Susan  Hayward, 
John  Houston.  In  spite  of  a  roster  of  stars, 
Presley  beat  me.  The  kid  beat  our  rat- 
ing by  four  or  five  points.  Well,  the  thing 
that  astounded  me  was  that  NBC  didn't 
hold  onto  him. 

1  had  never  seen  Presley,"  Ed  goes  on. 
"When  I  said  Presley  wasn't  'my  cup  of 
tea,'  it  was  really  my  'sour  grapes'  because 
I  didn't  have  him.  Anyway,  I  got  kine- 
scopes of  his  appearances  on  the  Dorsey 
Brothers'  show.  He  did  nothing  offensive. 
I  called  the  Morris  Agency  and  said  I 
wanted  Presley  for  the  season.  I  asked 
them  to  give  me  a  price  and,  if  I  could 
meet  it,  I  would.  They  said  fifty  thou- 
sand dollars  for  three  performances,  and 
that  was  it." 

Ed  half-smiles  and  continues,  "There 
was  criticism  because  I  signed  Presley. 
I'll  give  you  an  example:  A  newspaper 
friend  teed  off  on  me  in  his  column.  I 
phoned  him  and  asked  why.  He  said, 
'Ed,  I  think  it's  disgraceful  that  you'd 
sign  Presley.'  I  told  my  friend  that  we 
had  had  a  pretty  good  show  opposing 
Presley — but  his  paper  had  ignored  our 
show  to  review  Presley  on  the  Allen  pro- 
gram. So  he  said,  'Ed,  I  had  to.  The  in- 
terest is  in  Presley.'  I  told  him,  'So  you 
watch  Presley,  write  about  Presley,  tell 
me  people  want  to  see  Presley — and  yet 
tell  me  it's  disgraceful  for  me  to  sign 
him  up.' " 

Ed  shrugs  and  says,  "I'll  tell  you  some- 
thing, though.  When  you're  in  the  hos- 
pital, you  aren't  thinking  in  terms  of 
Trendex  ratings.  You  get  pretty  senti- 
mental then — about  the  family.  You  be- 
gin to  make  resolutions — to  take  vaca- 
tions, to  work  an  hour  less  a  day.  You 
begin  to  think  about  people  and  how  won- 
derful they  are.  In  the  past  you've  said 
it,  and  meant  it — but  then  you  really  ex- 
perience it.  The  kindness  of  strangers, 
doctors,  nurses  like  Mildred  Toussaint.  All 
of  those  letters  and  telegrams  that  come 
in  wishing  and  praying  for  your  recovery. 
Well,  that's  something  you  can  never 
understand  until  it  happens  to  you  under 
those   conditions." 

Ed  is  extraordinary.  He  is  one  of  the 
greatest  showmen  of  all  times.  Nothing 
in  the  history  of  show  business  comes 
close  to  his  record.  For  eight  years,  he 
has  turned  out  fifty-two  different  shows 
a  year  which  have  earned  him  a  weekly 
audience  of  up  to  fifty  million  people  each 
Sunday.  The  guy  with  the  flat  voice 
and  square  face  has  won  the  affection  of 
millions  for  his  open-handed  sincerity, 
his  humility  and  his  courage.  That  is  one 
good  thing  which  came  out  of  the  acci- 
dent— proof  of  just  how  close  he  is  to  the 
hearts  of  his  viewers. 


T 


Faith  in  His  Fellow  Man 


(Continued  from  page  44) 
who  stands  before  the  cameras  in  a  quasi- 
judicial  role,  speaking  the  final  word  which 
means  fortune  to  one  contestant  and  fail- 
ure to  another,  Ralph  Story  customarily 
weighs  his  words.  However,  at  mention 
of  his  favorite  topic — the  American  listen- 
ing and  viewing  audience — his  gray  eyes 
light  up  and  take  on  new  animation. 

With  outspoken  candor,  he  states  that 
he  abhors — and  consistently  has  refused 
to  work  on — quiz  shows  which  he  feels 
insult  the  audience.  He  believes  the  suc- 
cess of,  first,  The  $64,000  Question,  and 
then  The  $64,000  Challenge,  explodes  what 
he  calls  "the  old  fallacy  that  the  audience 
has  the  mind  of  a  destructive  twelve-year- 
old."  He  admires  Louis  G.  Cowan,  who 
started  both  shows:  "He  created  a  social 
revolution.  You  look  at  the  man  who 
mends  your  shoes  with  more  respect 
when  you  know  that  another  shoemaker 
answered  questions  which  would  stump 
most   music   students." 

To  Ralph,  The  $64,000  Challenge  is  "the 
nation's  top  tournament  of  knowledge. 
Here  an  average  person  who  has  won  on 
The  $64,000  Question  is  challenged  by 
another  average  person  who  first  watched 
the  show.  Can  you  ask  for  any  better 
proof  that  people  have  a  tremendous 
amount  of  knowledge — that  the  audience, 
too,  is  made  up  of  intelligent,  interesting 
people?  For  me,  this  is  direct  confirma- 
tion of  what  I  have  always  believed.  I 
have  tremendous  faith  in  human  beings." 

Ralph's  love  affair  with  the  broadcast- 
ing audience  began  in  Kalamazoo,  Michi- 
gan, where  he  was  born,  August  19,  1920, 
the  son  of  Dr.  Ralph  Bernard  Sneider,  a 
physician,  and  Marjorie  Van  Bochove 
Sneider,  an  orthopedic  nurse.  He  has  a 
librarian  to  thank  for  his  introduction  to 
radio.  "On  our  little  station,  WKZO,  a 
man  called  Uncle  Bill  told  stories  to 
children.  He  called  her  to  ask  for  a  boy 
to  be  on  the  show.  I  became  one  of  his 
two  little  pigeons." 

That  intoxicating  touch  of  radio  stayed 
with  him.  "In  the  grades  we  had  to  make 
up  'career  books'  with  clippings  and  pic- 
tures showing  what  we  wanted  to  be.  I 
scandalized  everyone  by  insisting  I  wanted 
to  work  in  radio  instead  of  being  a  forest 
ranger  or  a  locomotive  engineer.  I  was 
told  no  one  did  that.  But  I'll  bet,  of  all 
the  kids  who  made  up  those  books,  I'm 
the  only  one  who  is  doing  now  what  he 
said  he  wanted  to  do  then.  To  me,  radio 
was  the  only  exciting  thing  in  our  town." 

In  his  own  home,  the  choice  was  even 
more  shocking.  "In  our  family,  everyone 
went  into  medicine  or  nursing.  The  previ- 
ous 'black  sheep'  was  a  relative  who 
wanted  to  be  a  minister.  It  wasn't  until 
some  one  realized  that  ministers,  too, 
could  be  called  'Doctor'  that  I  succeeded  to 
the   black-sheep   title." 

Despite  his  radical  ambition,  life  in  the 
roomy  house  on  Oak  Street  was  pleasant. 
Ralph  and  his  father  went  fishing  and 
camping.  All  three  of  them  played  golf,  al- 
though, as  Ralph  says,  "Golf  lessons  were 
wasted  on  me.  I  preferred  the  person-to- 
person  combat  of  tennis  to  trying  to  beat 
an  abstract  score." 

Ralph's  biggest  thrill  was  receiving  a 
car  when  he  was  fourteen.  "It  was  a  baby- 
blue  Olds  convertible,  and  having  it  of- 
ficially mine  made  me  feel  seven  feet  tall. 
But  I  was  the  only  one  in  town  who  was 
fooled.  Girls  weren't  a  bit  impressed. 
They  knew  I  had  only  a  learner's  license 
and  some  adult  had  to  be  along  whenever 
I  drove.  Actually,  it  turned  out  to  be  a 
second  car  for  my  mother.  When  we 
wanted  to  go  anywhere,  we  all  piled  into 


Ed  Harrington's — he  really  had   a  car." 

This  idyllic  existence  ended  abruptly. 
Dr.  Sneider,  in  Chicago  to  attend  a  medi- 
cal meeting,  was  involved  in  a  traffic  ac- 
cident and  died  of  a  heart  attack.  "My 
best  effort  to  comfort  my  mother,"  Ralph 
recalls,  "was  to  suggest,  the  day  after  the 
funeral,  that  we  play  a  round  of  golf. 
I  hated  it,  but  she  liked  it.  She  explained 
that  people  wouldn't  understand.  She 
understood,  however,  and  that's  all  that 
mattered." 

They  got  along.  Mrs.  Sneider  resumed 
her  work  as  a  nurse,  and  a  couple  of  the 
rooms  in  that  big  house  were  rented. 
Ralph's  interest  centered  around  the  high 
school's  weekly  radio  program.  He  became 
the  official  announcer,  and,  when  he  was 
graduated  from  Central  in  1937,  he  found 
a  part-time  job  at  WKZO,  paying  five  dol- 
lars a  week. 

It  helped  pay  his  expenses  at  Western 
Michigan  College.  "Living  at  home,  my 
money  went  twice  as  far."  A  year  and  a 
half  later,  he  quit  school  to  take  a  full 
time  job  at  the  station. 

For  Ralph  had  a  girl — pretty  June 
Weber,  daughter  of  the  secretary  of  the 
Chamber  of  Commerce.  "It  was  like  in 
'Our  Town,'  we  just  always  knew  we 
wanted  to  get  married."  The  date  was 
March  31,  1939.  They  took  a  small  apart- 
ment. "It  had  to  be  small,"  Ralph  says. 
"I  was  getting  twenty-five  dollars  a  week 
and  June  helped  out  by  working  at  the 
Upjohn   Pharmaceutical    Company." 

The  station  itself  provided  an  education. 
"I  sort  of  teamed  up  with  John  Lascelles, 
who  had  run  the  doughnut  counter  at  the 
A.  &  P.  store.  We  were  about  the  same 
age,  came  to  the  station  at  the  same  time. 
We  did  all  kinds  of  shows — religion,  news, 
'man-on-the-street,'  recordings.  We  wrote 
them,  announced  them,  sold  them.  It  was 
priceless  training.  We  learned  all  facets 
of  the  business." 

After  his  son  Bradley  was  born  in 
September,  1940,  Ralph  moved  on  to 
WLAV  in  Grand  Rapids.  John  went  to 
WGR,  Buffalo,  and  soon  wired  Ralph  that 
there  was  a  job  open.  He  worked  there 
until  he  went  into  the  Air  Force  in  1943. 
("I  had  learned  to  fly  while  at  Grand 
Rapids,"  he  explains.)  Returning  to 
Buffalo  in  1945,  after  flying  63  combat 
missions,  he  took  over  The  Musical  Clock. 

When  his  contract  ended  in  1948,  he  was 
ready  to  offer  this  knowledge  to  New 
York.  Godfrey  had  just  quit  his  morning 
shows.  "I  arrived  just  two  hours  too 
late,"  Ralph  remembers.  "They  had  just 
hired  Jack  Sexton  from  Chicago.  They 
asked  me  to  go  to  Hollywood." 

It  was  thanks  to  this  situation  that 
Jack  Sexton  became  "Jack  Sterling"  and 
Ralph  Sneider  became  "Ralph  Story" — 
for  CBS  had  decided  to  own  the  names 
of  its  morning-show  maestros.  Ralph 
gained  legal  right  to  "Ralph  Story"  at  the 
expiration  of  his  first  KNX  contract.  "They 
then  realized  that  a  certain  personality  be- 
comes so  identifiable  with  a  name  that  it 
belongs  to  the  man — and  men  aren't  in- 
terchangeable." 

His  first  venture  into  television  rang  no 
bells.  In  a  summer  replacement  titled 
What  Do  You  Have  In  Common? — for 
thirteen  weeks — Ralph  occupied  Coffin 
Corner  opposite  Dragnet.  He  says,  "I 
know  two  persons  watched  it.  Jack  Webb 
did,  looked  me  up  and  became  my  friend. 
Harry  Fleishman  of  the  Louis  G.  Cowan 
office  saw  it  and  asked  me  to   audition." 

Ralph,  under  contract  to  KNX,  recom- 
mended Hal  March.  Hal,  also  with  a  Coast 
contract,  recommended  Ralph.  The  show 
was  The  $64,000  Question  and  Hal,  for  a 


time,  commuted  from  Coast  to  Coast. 

When,  during  the  past  summer,  Ques- 
tion's companion  show,  The  $64,000  Chal- 
lenge, went  shopping  for  a  new  master  of 
ceremonies,  Ralph  was  available.  "My 
contract  at  KNX  ended  at  8:45  A.M.  on 
July  13 — and,  at  10:40  A.M.,  I  was  on  a 
plane  for  New  York." 

Recollection  of  his  first  program  makes 
him  shudder.  "I  figured  I  had  'gone  to 
school'  to  television  for  thirteen  weeks 
on  that  summer  show,  and  no  one  learns 
much  in  thirteen  weeks.  I  had  to  depend 
on  the   staff   and   crew   to  teach   me." 

Perhaps  it  was  his  very  slowness,  his 
courtesy  and  his  willingness  to  learn  which 
saved  him.  By  the  second  program,  the 
crew  had  enough  confidence  in  him  to 
kid  him  during  rehearsal.  With  both  real 
questions  and  real  contestants  missing,  they 
supplied  him  with  cards  reading,  "Do  you 
think  Tommy  Manville  is  slowing  down?" 
Ralph,  too,  had  gained  confidence.  When 
he  asked  a  girl  stand-in,  "What  do  you 
do?"  and  she  replied,  "Nothing,"  Ralph 
deadpanned,  "How  did  you  prepare  for  it?" 

The  many  moves  which  proved  so  good 
for  Ralph's  career  were  bad  for  his  mar- 
riage. "June  and  I  remain  good  friends," 
he  says,  "but  we've  been  separated,  off 
and  on,  for  seventeen  years.  We've  never 
sought  a  divorce  because  neither  of  us 
has  ever  wanted  to  marry  anyone  else." 

His  deepest  affection  goes  to  his  son, 
Brad.  Just  before  Ralph  came  to  New 
York,  they  had  gone  on  a  camping  trip 
together  in  the  High  Sierras.  Brad  re- 
mains close  in  Ralph's  thoughts  at  all 
times.  For  example,  Ralph  is  now  living 
in  a  New  York  hotel  apartment  and  de- 
bating where  he  wants  to  live.  But  even 
in  this  his  son's  interest  is  paramount.  He 
says,  "It  should  be  some  place  that  Brad 
will  like  when  he  comes  to  visit.  I'm 
not  sure  he'll  enjoy  being  in  the  city." 

Brad,  Ralph  explained,  has  reached  the 
age  where  he  is  finding  his  own  way  of 
life — and  that  life  is  science.  "He's  a 
fabulous  gardener,  a  good  woodsman,  and 
already  quite  an  astronomer,"  says  Ralph 
proudly.  "He's  on  speaking  terms  with 
Dr.  Dinsmore  Alter,  head  of  the  Griffith 
Planetarium,  and  hopes  to  work  there  as 
an  usher  as  soon  as  he  enters  college." 

Ralph  smiles  when  he  recalls,  "It  was 
those  comic  books  I  used  to  worry  about 
which  helped  set  the  direction.  I  suppose 
each  boy  takes  out  of  comic  books  what 
he  wants.  If  he  wants  violence,  he'll 
find  that,  but  Brad  started  looking  beyond 
the  horizon.  Science  fiction  came  next, 
and  then  he  really  started  to  learn  what 
he  needed.  He  understands  nuclear 
physics  in  a  way  I  never  shall,  he  has 
some  comprehension  of  the  Einstein  theory 
— which  is  only  a  phrase  to  me.  It  has 
made  me  understand  that  he's  not  a  little 
boy  any  longer,  he  is  a  coordinated  hu- 
man being." 

Finding  understanding,  in  Ralph's  opin- 
ion, is  "the  greatest  adjustment  a  par- 
ent has  to  make.  If  I  start  to  put  my 
foot  down,  I'll  merely  discover  there's  no 
foot.  The  best  I  can  hope  for  is  that  his 
mother  and  I  have  given  him  the  training 
he  needs  to  make  a  good  life  for  himself, 
and  that  he'll  call  on  me  when  he  needs 
me.  He's  my  son,  but  I  also  must  recognize 
that  the  baby  days  are  over.  Here  is  an 
interesting  young  man,  with  whom  I 
happen  to  be  very  good  friends." 

But  good  friendship  doesn't  just  "hap-    t 
pen"  to  a  man  like  Ralph  Story.     He  was    y 
born  to  be  friends  with  the  world.     And    r 
The  $64,000  Challenge  gives  him  a  heaven- 
sent   opportunity    to    prove    his    abiding 
faith   in  his  fellow  man. 

63 


WHAT'S   NEW   FROM   COAST   TO   COAST 

(Continued  from  page  13) 


moon,  with  more  fantastic  sounds  by  Pete 
Rugolo.  Her  voice,  slightly  scalded  at  the 
edge,  mulls  "Dearly  Beloved,"  "For  All  We 
Know,"  and  ten  other  memories.  .  .  .  The 
gal  who  first  put  women  in  trousers,  Kay 
Thompson,  will  do  the  adaptation,  musical 
background  and  just  about  everything  else 
for  the  November  22nd  Playhouse  90  pro- 
duction of  "Eloise,"  her  story  of  a  fictitious, 
mischievous  little  girl  who  lives  at  New 
York's  Hotel  Plaza.  James  Mason's  little 
girl,  Pamela,  is  set  for  the  role  of  Eloise. 

Family  Affairs:  Joan  Tompkins,  long- 
loved  as  Nora  Drake,  can  also  be  seen  on 
Valiant  Lady  as  the  Governor's  sister.  .  .  . 
Chris  Schenkel,  who  reports  Monday -night 
fights,  is  dearly  beloved  by  wife  Fran  and 
daughter  Christine  but  they  can't  stand  the 
sight  of  boxing  so  turn  up  the  volume  but 
black-out  the  picture.  .  .  .  Claudia  Morgan, 
of  Right  To  Happiness,  plays  Broadway  in 
Shaw's  "Applecart."  .  .  .  Eddie,  Debbie 
and  newborn  will  be  in  New  York  City  for 
the  holiday  season. 

Anniversary  Time:  Actress  Marion  Barney 
has  played  a  variety  of  roles,  but  is  most 
famous  as  Pepper  Young's  mother.  In  23 
years  she  has  gone  through  four  Peppers, 
one  of  whom  was  Burgess  Meredith. 
Marion  was  born  in  California.  Her  great- 
grandfather was  state  governor.  Many  an- 
cestors were  prominent  in  U.S.  history.  "My 
mother  used  to  say,  'We  are  blue-bloods 
but  where  did  the  money  go?' "  Forty- 
seven  years  ago  Marion  married  business- 
man R.  T.  Richardson,  a  Brooklyn  native. 
"They  said  we  were  too  young  for  marriage. 
They  wanted  to  talk  about  it.  But  we  de- 
cided, 'Let's  get  married  and  then  let  them 
talk.'  So  we  eloped."  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Richard- 
son now  live  in  St.  Albans,  Long  Island. 
Twice  a  week  she  comes  into  Manhattan  to 
record  Pepper  Young  shows.  "The  charac- 
ter has  become  me.  I  am  Mary  Young.  Even 
my  own  expressions  have  been  picked  up 
and  put  in  the  script."  She  describes  herself 
and  husband  as  "homebirds."  He  is  retired 
and  helps  with  housekeeping.  Her  domes- 
tic pleasures  are  sewing  and  embroidering. 
Her  favorite  sport  is  swimming.  Next 
month,  on  December  15th,  Marion  Barney 
will  be  73. 

The  Brothers  Crosby:  In  an  interview  23 
years  ago,  Der  Bingle  complained,  "Every - 


64 


Soap — 108,000  pink  bars  of  Camay  donated  by  Procter  &  Gamble — paved 
Rockefeller  Plaza.  Today  viewers  saw  motto:  "A  Cleaner  N.  Y.  is  up  to  you." 


Joel  Grey  climbs  to  fame  on  "Jack  and 
Beanstalk."  Mort  Abrahams  produces. 


time  I  croon  to  the  baby,  he  cries."  Now 
everyone  knows  that  Gary  was  merely 
more  interested  in  hearing  himself.  But 
Bing  goes  back  to  those  years  with  the  in- 
triguing album  titled,  "Songs  I  Missed  the 
First  Time  Around."  .  .  .  And  brother  Bob 
comes  up  with  another  collector's  item.  For 
Coral,  it  is  a  playback  of  the  great  numbers 
that  made  the  Bobcats  so  famous  in  the 
swing  era.  Some  of  the  original  band  mem- 
bers are  with  Bob  in  this  hi-fi  re-recording 
that  beats  all  the  way  home. 

Big  Deal:  On  NBC-TV,  Nov.  12,  "Jack  and 
the  Beanstalk,"  musical  comedy  with  Cyril 
Ritchard,  Celeste  Holm,  Peggy  King,  Ar- 
nold Stang,  Billy  Gilbert.  But  Jack,  him- 
self, will  be  played  by  a  comparatively  un- 
known talent,  Joel  Grey.  Joel,  in  his  early 
twenties,  is  five-five,  with  brown  hair  and 
eyes  to  match.  A  gourmet  with  a  huge  file 
of  recipes,  he  often  invites  dates  in  for  din- 
ner. His  fine  taste  extends  to  clothes  and  his 
friends  kid  that  even  the  dungarees  he 
wears  at  rehearsals  are  tailor-made.  And 
they  add  seriously  that  he  is  loved  by 
friends,  for  he  is  considerate  and  very  sen- 
sitive. Mort  Abrahams,  exec-producer  of 
Producers'  Showcase,  says  Joel  was  chosen 
for  the  lead  because,  "This  guy's  so  sensi- 
tive." On  TV,  Joel  has  acted  on  Kraft 
and  the  George  Abbott  Theater.  As  dancer- 
singer,  he  played  Ed  Sullivan's  show  as 
well  as  famed  night  clubs  such  as  the 
Copa,    Chez   Paree,    Mocambo   and    Ciro's. 

Love's  Labor  Found:  Actress  Jeanne 
Moody  says  that  the  loveliest  salary  in  the 
world  is  when  a  woman  gets  paid  to  make 
love  to  her  own  husband  in  public.  And 
that's  what  happens  when  she  plays  in 
The  Adventures  Of  Jim  Bowie,  starring 
Scott  Forbes,  her  husband.  "In  one  script 
I  don't  win  Scottie,  but  it  doesn't  matter.  I 
know  he's  mine  when  we  get  home  after 
the  day's  work  at  the  studio." 

Story  Behind  The  Story:  Julie  Stevens 
will  have  her  baby  during  November  and, 
since  October  29th,  Virginia  Clark  has 
been  playing  the  title  role  in  The  Romance 


Of  Helen  Trent.  Virginia  Clark  originally 
played  the  part  from  1933  until  1944,  when 
the  show  moved  to  New  York  City.  On 
moving  day,  she  elected  to  stay  in  Chicago 
to  care  for  her  children  and  home.  She  is 
a  remarkable  gal,  a  native  of  Little  Rock, 
Arkansas,  where  she  sang  in  a  trio  that 
included  Jimmy  Melton  and  Dick  Powell. 
She  is  a  beauty,  a  sparkling  brunette  who 
was  runner-up  for  Miss  America.  A  brain, 
she  attended  University  of  Alabama  and 
Chicago  School  of  Expression.  She  is  tak- 
ing over  Julie's  role  temporarily.  About 
the  second  week  in  December,  Virginia 
will    return   to   Chicago    and   private   life. 

Medic's  Hedic:  Medic  will  be  back  after 
the  first  of  the  year.  Inside  story  (if  you 
haven't  heard  already,  it's  inside)  goes  this 
way:  There  was  a  chapter  in  the  series 
called  "Glorious  Red  Gallagher,"  concern- 
ing a  nurse  about  to  retire  who  is  asked 
to  stay  on  to  help  a  young  expectant 
mother.  Film  showed  a  whole  Caesarean. 
NBC  execs  turned  green.  Said  no.  Pro- 
ducer said  yes.  NBC  said  no.  Producer  said 
goodby.  (In  fairness  to  NBC,  let  it  be  noted 
that  newsmen  were  invited  to  see  censored 
portion  and  they,  too,  turned  green.)  So 
Medic's  been  off — but  things  are  now 
patched  up,  and  it  returns  next  year. 

On  The  Run:  Paul  McGrath,  of  My  Son 
Jeep,  and  Howard  Smith,  who  plays  Buck 
Holiday  in  Second  Mrs.  Burton,  featured 
in  the  movie  "A  Face  in  the  Crowd."  See 
if  you  can  spot  them. . . .  Uncle  Miltie  goes 
back  to  Paris  in  spring  to  make  more 
episodes  in  new  series  burlesquing  private- 
eye  abroad.  .  .  .  David  Brian,  Mr.  D.A., 
notes  difference  between  TV  and  movies. 
"In  TV  you  have  to  establish  the  character 
before  the  first  commercial.  In  movies  you 
have  time  to  the  popcorn  break."  .  .  . 
Santa  Claus  and  the  Stork  will  be  crowd- 
ing down  the  Wally  Cox  chimney  about 
the  same  time.  .  .  .  Kate  Smith,  before 
the  season  is  over,  will  have  a  new  regular 
series  of  her  own.  It  will  be  a  weekly  to 
conserve  the  strength  of  manager  Ted 
Collins,   who  suffered  a  heart  attack. 


Seven  Dolls  for  Seven  Daughters 


(Continued  from  page  56) 
After  he  won  a  pretty  penny,  the  girls 
themselves  became  the  center  of  attraction, 
with  George  de  Witt,  the  show's  chief 
question-asker,  playing  Santa  Claus  and 
Harry  Salter  and  his  orchestra  supplying 
gala  music. 

The  story  first  came  to  light,  however, 
on  Easter,  when  newspaperman  Bill  Cash 
af  the  Boston  Globe  watched  the  family 
make  a  private  Easter  parade  into  church 
with  Rita  in  the  lead,  Ed  bringing  up  the 
rear.  Between  them  were  their  daughters: 
'atricia,  10;  Barbara,  9;  Donna,  8;  Sandra, 
Celia,  6;  Rita,  3;  and  Gloria,  who  was 
then  not  quite  two  years  old.  Each  wore 
a  matching  dress  and  hat  which  their 
mother  had   made. 

In  thinking  that  they  made  quite  a  pic- 
ture, Bill  Cash  was  ready  to  admit  he 
might  be  prejudiced.  He  had  been  best 
man  at  the  Newtons'  wedding.  But  other 
editors  shared  his  opinion.  When  he  in- 
sisted on  calling  a  photographer  and  run- 
ning the  picture  in  The  Globe,  the  Asso- 
ciated Press  picked  it  up,  it  was  published 
all  over  the  world,  and  letters,  telegrams 
and  phone  calls  flooded  the  family.  Later, 
TV  viewers,  too,  thought  them  charming. 
But  few  knew  that  behind  this  happy 
family  lies  an  inspiring  story  of  courage, 
faith  and  love  which  holds  them  together 
to  face  a  serious  problem. 

Ihe  love  came  first,  a  rich  endowment 
passed  along  by  an  older  generation.  Rita 
was  the  daughter  of  Helen  and  Robert 
Stella  and,  as  a  girl,  lived  in  the  Silver 
Lake  section  of  Staten  Island,  which  sits 
smack  in  the  middle  of  the  harbor  of  the 
City  of  New  York.  Theirs  was  a  lively 
household,  for  Bob  and  Helen  Stella  were 
show  people  who  had  produced  vaudeville 
shows  on  Broadway  and  taught  young 
hopefuls  at  their  dramatic  school.  When 
they  settled  down  to  raise  their  own  fam- 
ily and  Bob  bought  a  garage  and  filling 
station  on  Staten  Island,  they  hung  onto 
their  dancing  shoes  and  even  today  pro- 
duce shows  for  church  and  civic  groups. 

Rita's  mother  says,  "Rita  was  our  red- 
head, our  laughing,  frivolous  girl.  She  was 
quite  in  earnest  about  her  job  in  the  book- 
keeping department  of  National  City  Bank. 
Every  day  she  rode  the  Staten  Island  ferry 
to  go  to  work  in  Wall  Street.  But  we  still 
thought  all  she  really  cared  about  were 
pretty  clothes  and  dances." 

Edward  Newton  was  a  lad  from  up  Bos- 
ton way  who  went  to  sea  in  an  Esso  tanker. 
Curly-haired,  slight  of  build,  and  quick  to 
laugh,  he  drew  many  a  girlish  glance  when, 
on  St.  Valentine's  Day,  1943,  he  turned  up 
at  a  dance   at  St.   Theresa's   church. 

"Only  time  I  ever  went  to  a  church 
dance  in  my  life,"  he  says  today.  "I  don't 
know  why  I  did  then,  except  we  were  in 
port  and  it  was  something  to  do.  I  met  Rita. 
We  had  one  date — and  that  was  it." 

One  date — but  twelve  months  to  write 
and  think  it  over.  In  that  war  year  a  sea- 
man on  an  oil  tanker  knew  he  would  draw 
tough  runs  and  enemy  fire.  Eddy  Newton 
did  both  and  was  wounded  before  he  re- 
turned to  home  port  and  Rita  Stella. 

Two  weeks  later  they  were  engaged. 
Says  Ed,  "My  first  proposal  was  a  sort  of 
joke.  Walking  ahead  of  her  down  the  steps 
to  the  Staten  Island  ferry,  I  dropped  down 
on  one  knee,  clasped  my  hands  like  a  guy 
in  a  comic  valentine  and  said,  'Darling, 
please  be  mine.' " 

The  way  Rita  laughed  and  said,  "I'd  love 
to,"  was  the  encouragement  Eddy  needed. 
Soon  they  were  breaking  the  news  to  her 
parents,  asking  Ed's  friend,  Bill  Cash,  to  be 
best  man,  and  making  plans  for  a  big 
white-satin  wedding  with  200  guests. 


They  lived  in  New  York  until  the  oldest 
daughter,  Patricia,  was  born.  Ed  wanted  no 
big-city  living  for  his  children.  Moving  to 
Shrewsbury,  Massachusetts,  he  accepted 
his  brother-in-law's  offer  to  take  him  into 
business.  The  firm  emerged  as  Newton  & 
Stonelli,  Plasterers. 

As  Ed  was  later  to  tell  the  TV  world,  he 
is  proud  of  his  occupation.  "It's  a  good 
trade,"  he  says.  "You  work  on  people's 
houses.  You  try  to  make  them  secure, 
comfortable,  beautiful — and  there  is  noth- 
ing more  important  than  someone's  home." 

Each  year  brought  another  little  daugh- 
ter. Vivacious  Patricia,  who  is  dark-haired 
like  her  father,  was  followed  by  Barbara, 
who  has  her  mother's  strawberry-blond 
coloring.  Then  came  Donna,  Sandra  and 
Celia.  Rita  characterizes  them:  "The  girls 
alternate — one  is  dark  and  lively,  the  next 
is  light  and  quiet." 

But  there  was  no  new  baby  the  next 
year,  nor  the  one  after  that.  Specialists 
confirmed  their  family  physician's  diag- 
nosis: Rita  had  muscular  dystrophy — that 
mysterious,  muscle-deteriorating  malady. 
It  was  a  crushing  blow  for  a  time,  but 
eventually,  with  a  redhead's  spunk  and  a 
Christian's  faith,  she  found  her  answer.  Al- 
though her  doctors  dictated,  "No  more 
children,"  and  her  family  begged,  "Oh  Rita, 
take  care  of  yourself,"  she  gave  birth  to 
small  Rita,  and,  a  year  later,  to  Gloria. 
Not  easily,  it  is  true,  but  she  survived  and 
the  babies  were  healthy.  She  told  her 
mother,  "If  this  is  God's  will  for  me,  I'm 
sure  He  will  also  show  me  what  to  do.  I 
mean  to  be  as  active  and  happy  as  I  can." 

Seven  little  girls  in  stair-step  sequence 
are  bound  to  attract  attention,  and  Rita's 
desire  to  have  them  dressed  prettily  led 
to  her  next  undertaking — a  study  of  fash- 
ion design.  She  says,  "I  took  a  correspond- 
ence course.  I  intend  to  make  designing  my 
career.  My  first  project  was  the  Easter  hats 
and   dresses  for  the   girls." 

Another  baby  was  on  the  way  and  the 
task  was  not  as  simple  as  she  makes  it 
sound.  Ed  says,  "It  was  quite  a  winter. 
Measles  and  whooping  cough  went  through 
the  family  and  Rita  caught  them,  too,  but 
she  kept  right  at  the  dresses.  She  started 
in  February  and  finished  them  in  April." 

The  ink  wasn't  much  more  than  dry  on 
that  newspaper  picture  of  the  girls  in  their 
Easter  dresses  when  editors  ran  it  again. 
The  new  baby  was  a  boy,  Edward  Jr.  At 
last  Ed  and  Rita  had  the  son  they  had  al- 
ways wanted. 

Among  those  who  fell  in  love  with  the 
picture  of  those  seven  pretty  girls  was 
Harry  Salter,  maestro  of  Name  That  Tune. 
Promptly,  he  invited  Ed  Newton  to  appear 
on  the  program. 

Ed  met  the  music  questions  handily  dur- 
ing his  first  session  before  the  CBS-TV 
cameras,  but  he  answered  more  about 
raising  a  large  family.  Master  Of  Cere- 
monies George  de  Witt,  himself  the  father 
of  a  husky  two-year-old  son,  Jay,  asked 
Ed  how  he  managed  all  the  children. 

Ed  laughed.  "That's  easy.  You  just  teach 
each  one  to  do  her  part — the  older  girls 
help  with  the  little  ones,  and  even  Gloria, 
at  two,  can  do  her  chores.  She  puts  the 
silver  on  the  table,  one  piece  at  a  time." 

Questions  about  family  management 
were  doubled  the  next  week  when  Ed's 
"partner"  on  Name  That  Tune  arrived.  Mrs. 
Nat  Lancaster  of  Richmond,  Virginia,  who 
had  sent  in  the  original  list  of  musical 
questions  he  had  answered,  had  three  chil- 
dren. Much  note-comparing  went  on.  And 
when  they  won  $8,000.  George  asked  Ed 
what  he  intended  to  do  with  his  half  of 
the  money.  "Install  a  second  bathroom  in 
our  house.  With  eight  kids,  we  always  have 


a  line.  Maybe  with  a  second  bath,  I  can 
shave  in  peace." 

Another  question,  asked  after  the  show, 
was  not  so  quickly  answered.  When  the 
show's  staff  thought  it  would  be  wonderful 
if  the  girls  could  be  on  the  show  the  fol- 
lowing week,  Ed  lost  his  wide  grin.  "I'll 
have  to  ask  Rita.  She's  been  ill,  you  know." 

Rita  promptly  leveled  all  objections. 
"Sure  we  can  do  it.  We  get  down  to  visit 
my  folks,  don't  we?  So  what  if  I  have  to 
rest  more  than  usual.  And  I'll  have  no 
mention  of  muscular  dystrophy.  Let's  not 
have   people   worrying   about   it." 

The  girls'  conquest  of  New  York  began 
the  moment  they  stepped  down  from  Ed's 
station  wagon,  each  wearing  a  striped  play 
suit,  each  carrying  her  own  small  hand- 
bag, each  tossing  winning  smiles  at  spec- 
tators, bell  hops,  desk  clerks  and  elevator 
men. 

They  won  Mrs.  Lancaster's  heart  in 
nothing  flat  and  she  volunteered  to  take 
them  to  dinner  so  that  Ed  and  Rita  might 
have  their  first  date — alone — in  years.  At 
the  Automat,  which  they  decided  would 
be  the  most  fun,  all  the  girls  wanted 
bologna  sandwiches  and  ice  cream.  Then 
they  went  to  the  Radio  City  Music  Hall. 

Ed  and  Rita's  sightseeing  was  brief.  They 
said,  "We  walked  down  Broadway,  talking 
about  the  days  when  we  were  first  mar- 
ried. Then  we  looked  in  the  windows  on 
Fifth  Avenue.  And  then  we  went  back  to 
the  hotel  to  wait  for  the  girls.  We  hadn't 
the  heart  to  go  to  a  show.  We  were  just 
plain  lonesome.  A  big  family  must  be 
habit-forming." 

When  Ed  and  Helen  ran  their  score  up 
to  $15,000,  George  de  Witt  of  Name  That 
Tune  proclaimed  a  celebration.  Instead  of 
signing  off  with  his  customary,  "Go  to  bed, 
little  Jay,"  he  said,  "Get  ready,  son,  we're 
all  going  to  Coney  Island." 

With  the  young  Lancasters,  the  Newtons 
and  some  persons  who,  as  Helen  Lancaster 
said,  "must  have  gone  along  for  the  ride," 
they  piled  into  a  sightseeing  bus  and  on 
the  Coney  Island  boardwalk  became  almost 
as  much  of  an  attraction  as  the  rides. 

The  girls  were  virtually  blase  New 
Yorkers  when  they  returned  to  the  pro- 
gram the  following  week.  Poised  and 
pretty,  they  settled  themselves  on  pillows 
and  phone  books  placed  on  the  front-row. 

Tension  mounted  with  each  question, 
each  thousand  dollars  Ed  and  Helen  won, 
but  at  the  fourth  tune,  they  drew  a 
mental  block.  Both  knew  full  well  that 
the  song  was  "March  of  the  Toys,"  but  all 
Helen  could  manage  to  say  was  "The 
March — the  march  from  'Babes  in  Toy- 
land.'  "  Since  the  name  of  the  operetta  had 
been  given  in  the  question  it  wasn't  suf- 
ficient identification.  The  $18,000  they  then 
shared,  however,  was  more  than  enough  to 
build  the  Newtons'  second  bath  and  that 
dining  room  the  Lancasters  wanted. 

But  little  girls  are  slower  to  understand 
such  things.  A  small  voice  piped,  "Daddy 
lost,"   and  seven  small   faces  fell. 

Then  George  de  Witt  sprang  his  own  big 
surprise.  The  curtain  rolled  back  to  re- 
veal the  girls'  gifts — bicycles,  tricycles, 
dresses,  a  puppy,  and  seven  dolls  in  bridal 
gowns — each  almost  as  tall  as  the  littlest 
girl,  Gloria. 

Their  proud  and  happy  grandmother  is 
sure    the    dolls    will    join    the    Christmas 
circle,  probably  in  new  Christmas  dresses 
to  match  the  girls.   She   sees  the   picture, 
"Patty  will  go  to   the  piano,   and   all  the     T 
girls  will  sing — and  they'll  have  no  trouble     v 
in  naming  the  tune,  for  they'll  sing  them    R 
all,    from    'Adeste    Fidelis'    through    'Holy 
Night,'  and  to  me,  at  least,  each  one  will 
look  just  like  an  angel." 

65 


(Continued   irom   page   30) 
of  the  phone  breathlessly,  under  the  pres- 
sure of  youthful  enthusiasm,  as  the  caller 
explained:    "My  mom  just  read  it  in  the 
paper.  Did  you  guys  know?" 

"Why,  sure,"  said  young  Paul,  noncha- 
lantly shrugging  his  shoulder  at  the  phone. 
"Don't  you  think  a  guy  knows  what's  going 
on?"  Then  he  said  proudly,  "This  morn- 
ing, we  even  made  breakfast  in  bed  for 
her.     She's  eating  now  .  .  ." 

"Oh  .  .  ." 

"Sorry,  I  gotta  go — Mom's  started  on 
the  toast.  That's  the  part  I  made."  Paul 
returned  the  receiver  to  its  cradle,  rushing 
back  to  Gale's  bedroom,  where  he  and 
his  two  older  brothers  solicitously 
plumped  pillows,  buttered  toast,  and  just 
generally  stood  around  in  awe. 

The  news  of  the  baby's  pending  arrival 
had  only  been  announced  at  dinner  the 
night  before.  Since  only  a  few  hours  had 
elapsed,  the  resultant  excitement  hadn't 
fully  subsided.  Thirteen-year-old  Phillip, 
for  example,  was  eagerly  up  at  six  A.M. 
and  off  to  the  kitchen,  where  he  carefully 
practiced  preparing  scrambled  eggs.  He 
and  his  brothers  intended  serving  Gale  a 
surprise  breakfast  in  bed. 

That  first  morning,  all  hands  took  part. 
The  result  was  a  trayful  of  food  large 
enough  to  serve  the  entire  ship's  crew 
from  Oh!  Susanna,  Gale's  new  CBS-TV 
series — orange  juice,  cereal  with  fruit  and 
milk,  bacon,  eggs,  and  slightly  burned  toast 
dripping  with  jam.  A  quart  of  milk  sat 
waiting  on  the  edge  of  the  tray,  "Just  in 
case  you  want  a  second  glass,"  said  Phil. 

After  Lee  and  I  told  the  boys  about 
the  baby,"  says  Gale,  "they  treated  me 
like  glass  for  about  three  days.  When  I 
came  home  from  work  at  night,  with  great 
concern  they  helped  me  out  of  the  car, 
took  my  packages — and  off  we  went  to  the 
house.  Lee  and  I  reassured  them  that  their 
anxiety  was  a  little  early,  but  their  at- 
tentions persisted.  When  they  were  com- 
pletely used  to  the  idea — which  took  the 
same  fast  three  days — they  promptly  for- 
got all  about  me." 

"Naturally,"  says  Lee,  "as  soon  as  the 
news  of  the  new  baby  was  confirmed,  we 
immediately  wanted  to  tell  the  boys.  In 
fact,  we  were  so  thrilled  about  it  our- 
selves, we  wanted  to  tell  everyone.  After 
all,  it's  pretty  wonderful— makes  you  feel 
a  young  man  again!"  (Lee  is  all  of  37.) 
But,  for  business  reasons,  the  news  had 
to  be  kept  under  wraps  and  they  were 
hesitant  about  telling  the  boys.  Even  if 
it  were  told  in  "strictest  secret,"  it  wouldn't 
take  long  for  the  news  to  spread  through 
their  schools — and,  possibly,  from  there  to 
the  newspapers.  One  thing  that  kept  them 
both  anxious,  too,  was  the  slim  possi- 
bility that  the  news  would  break  in  the 
newspapers  before  they  had  told  the  boys. 
But,  after  apprising  the  Nestle  Company, 
CBS-TV,  and  Hal  Roach  Studio  of  their 
situation,  the  time  finally  came  when  they 
could  share  their  secret  with  the  boys. 
Since  it  isn't  every  night  that  you  tell 
a  family  of  three  young  men  (13,  10,  and 
9)  that  they  are  going  to  have  a  baby 
brother  or  sister,  Gale  could  barely  con- 
tain her  excitement. 

"After  dinner,"  says  Gale,  "Lee  said  to 
the  boys,  'We  have  some  good  news  to  tell 
you.'  They  looked  up  politely.  'You  are 
going  to  have  a  little  baby  brother  or 
baby  sister  .  .  .  your  mother  is  going  to 

T    have  a  baby.'     They  chorused,  in  unani- 

v    mous  disbelief,  'What!'" 

R  Enthusiastically,  Gale  continues  describ- 
ing the  event:  "Peter,  our  middle  one,  is 
referred  to  as  'our  unemotional  son.'  He's 
the  one  who  won't  let  you  kiss  him  until 

bo 


Oh!  Susanna- — Oh,  Baby! 

you  put  your  knee  on  his  chest.  But 
when  we  announced  the  baby,  he  jumped 
up,  saying,  'You  wouldn't  kid  me,  would 
you?  Now,  don't  you  dare  kid  me!'  He 
ran  around  the  table  and  flung  his  arms 
around  my  neck,  followed  by  the  other 
boys,  still  shouting  'You're  not  kidding?' 
Bless  him,  he  was  so  worked  up,  he  had 
tears  in  his  eyes.  In  fact,  by  the  time  the 
excitement  was  over,  we  all  had  tears 
in  our  eyes.  .  .  .  Later,  we  all  had  a  big 
laugh,  as  Paul  kept  saying,  'I  won't  be  the 
baby  any  more!' " 

Says  Lee,  "When  your  children  are  old 
enough  to  appreciate  the  possibility  of  a 
baby  in  the  house,  when  they  accept  it  with 
such  eagerness,  then  I  think  it's  a  most 
wonderful  thing.  I  know  Gale  will  go 
along  with  me  when  I  say  it  was  one  of 
our  most  thrilling  family  experiences." 

A  new  baby  in  the  Bonnell  family  had 
been  considered  for  some  time.  But,  as 
Gale  says,  "When  the  others  are  grown, 
you  are  hesitant  to  start  all  over  again. 
When  we  were  first  married  and  Phillip, 
Peter  and  Paul  came  along,  it  seemed  like 
we  were  always  having  some  sort  of  a 
problem.  Like  all  young  newlyweds,  we 
went  through  times  when  we  were  short 
of  money,  the  house  was  too  small,  or  we 
needed  furniture — and  then  youngsters 
are  great  consumers  of  shirts,  shoes  and 
diapers." 

Yet,  when  Gale  and  Lee  were  first  mar- 
ried, they  agreed  that  four  children  made 
a  good-sized  family.  "When  I  was  a  little 
girl  back  in  Texas,"  Gale  recalls,  "to  me, 
the  ideal  family  had  four  children.  Don't 
ask  me  why — I  don't  know.  But  I  had  a 
mental  picture,  and  .  .  .  well,  here  we  are." 

But — because  of  the  previously  men- 
tioned problems,  which  plague  every  newly 
married  couple — it  seemed  the  Bonnells 
were  going  to  be  limited  to  a  family  of 
three.  Then  later,  with  the  growth  of 
Lee's  insurance  business,  the  success  of 
My  Little  Margie,  and  the  completion  of 
their  new  home,  these  problems  fast  dis- 
appeared. "A  couple  of  years  ago,"  says 
Lee,  "we  even  talked  about  the  possibility 
of  adopting  three  more  boys.  There  are 
extra  bunk  beds  in  each  of  the  boys' 
rooms  and  I  thought  it  might  not  be  a 
bad  idea  to  fill  them  up." 

"When  the  boys  knew  about  the  baby," 
says  Gale,  "they  began  asking  the  same 
questions — in  a  more  intelligent  manner 
— that  they  had  asked  at  four  and  five. 
I've  always  found  that  the  thing  to  do  is 


H  ill 

fsHB%& 

■ 

i    1 38 

i      1 

i 

Ur3r 

*S£                   * 

■ '  *^H1SB 

\ 

■  *.  .fc^^^BatlRJ^^W 

4jfMfc      ■ 

Wk  -'HB 

Fabric  was  Sale's  cue  to  Sir  Stork 
styles.  And  Capt.  Valdemar  Niel- 
sen of  American  President  Lines 
cued  her  on  new  shipboard  series. 


to  give  them  as  much  honest  information 
as  they  ask  for.  If  they  want  to  know, 
they  are  never  too  young.  When  they  are 
smaller,  they  accept  simpler  information 
and  are  more  easily  satisfied.  Although 
Phillip  wasn't  satisfied,  even  at  five,  until 
he   had   the   whole    story. 

"During  these  early  years,  they  gen- 
erally forget  the  answers  you've  given 
them,  and  frequently  ask  the  same  ques- 
tions more  than  once.  I've  always  found 
it  best  to  give  them  the  same  direct  an- 
swers, but  in  a  casual  way.  The  first 
child  is  the  toughest  to  explain  to — after- 
wards, it  become  easier,  because  he  passes 
the  information  on  to  the  others. 

"Of  course,  I  think  the  subject  of  new 
life  is  just  fascinating.  And  I  think,  if 
you  accept  it  in  a  matter-of-fact  yet  rev- 
erent manner,  your  feeling  will  be  caught 
by  your  family.  For  example,  when  the 
baby  was  far  enough  along  to  show  signs 
of  life,  I'd  sit  twitching  for  a  few  min- 
utes and  then  say,  'Oh,  my  goodness,  it 
is  active!'  'Oh,  really,'  they'd  say,  rushing 
over  to  take  turns  feeling  this  new  life 
while  it  performed  for  them.  'Oh,  boy!' 
they'd  exclaim,  when  it  gave  out  with  an 
especially  urgent  reaction.  'That  really 
was  a  good  one.' 

1  oward  the  end  of  the  eighth  month, 
it  grew  extremely  active  and  I  said  to 
Peter,  'My  goodness,  I'm  almost  sure  there 
must  be  more  than  one.'  He  immediately 
fell  in  love  with  the  idea  of  twins,  reply- 
ing, 'It  couldn't  really  be  twins,  Mommy 
.  .  .  could  it?  Well,  what  I  mean  is,  that 
is  .  .  .  you're  not  big  enough  .  .  .' 

"But,  of  course,  he  wasn't  about  to  give 
up  the  idea  too  easily.  He  thought  for 
a  moment,  then  said,  'It  could  be  twin 
midgets!' 

"The  important  thing  is  they  understand 
that  the  baby  is  there,  that  it  is  growing, 
and  their  knowledge  is  increased.  And 
I'm  sure  they  absorb  more  than  we  think. 
About  the  seventh  month,  Phillip  said,  "The 
way  it's  kicking,  it's  sure  to  be  a  boy!' " 

In  fact,  Gale  feels  the  boys  probably 
know  as  much  about  the  infant  as  she 
does.  "It's  been  so  long  since  Paul  was 
born,"  she  says  with  a  laugh,  "that  I  don't 
remember  a  thing.  When  we  first  knew 
the  baby  was  due,  I  was  so  carried  away 
I  thought  I'd  have  the  baby  by  natural 
childbirth  and  asked  the  doctor  if  Lee 
could  be  present.  He  said  no.  When  I 
asked  why,  he  told  me  husbands  were  not 
allowed  in  the  delivery  room — state  law. 
Too  many  doctors  and  nurses  had  to  turn 
their   attention   to    the   fainting   fathers. 

"We  feel  like  it's  our  first  again.  I 
have  to  call  the  doctor  up  to  ask  all  the 
silly  questions.  For  example,  when  he 
told  us  the  baby  was  due  November  22 — 
and  I  knew  Lee's  birthday  was  November 
24 — I  asked  if  we  couldn't  wait  for  two 
days.     He  assured  me  it  wouldn't  work. 

"I  didn't  even  remember  at  what  month 
you  are  supposed  to  feel  life  for  the  first 
time.  I  was  too  embarrassed  to  call  the 
doctor  again,  so  I  called  my  close  friend, 
Linda    Leighton — she    was    expecting,    too. 

"Linda  and  I  were  in  the  1939  Gateway 
to  Hollywood  contest,  and  we've  been 
close  friends  ever  since.  Linda  and  her 
husband,  Joe,  were  married  just  six 
months  from  the  time  Lee  and  I  were 
married.  We  always  agreed  that,  if  pos- 
sible, we  also  would  have  our  children 
together.  Linda  had  no  children  and 
finally  adopted  two.  Some  time  after  that, 
she  told  me  she  and  Joe  were  expecting 
a  baby  of  their  own  and  reminded  me  of 
our  promise.  Two  months  later  I  told  her 
our  news.  'Gale,  you're  a  true  friend,'  she 
said  seriously. 


. 


"Linda  and  I  are  on  the  phone  every 
day  complaining  to  one  another.  She 
lists  all  her  ailments  and  I  list  mine— but 
we  enjoy  ourselves  and  laugh  over  it. 
When,  toward  the  end,  I  was  'working  for 
two,'  so  to  speak,  it  was  beginning  to  get 
le  down,  but  my  doctor  told  me  I  was 
in  great  shape  and  horribly  healthy.  With 
the  baby  due  November  22,  he  made  sure 
I  understood  I  could  safely  work  through 
September  18.  He  was  completely  unsym- 
pathetic about  the  whole  thing. 

"As  soon  as  the  baby  was  announced," 
continues  Gale,  "we  had  two  problems: 
First,  what  we  would  name  it.  Second, 
how  to  predict  whether  it  would  be  a  boy 
or  a  girl.  .  .  .  Regarding  names — since 
Phillip.  Peter  and  Paul  all  begin  with  the 
initial  letter  'P' — we  felt  the  fourth  ought 
to  begin  the  same  way.  But  we  were 
stymied — seems  there  aren't  too  many 
names  left  that  begin  with  that  letter. 
We've  either  already  hit  on  them,  or  the 
others  aren't  acceptable  to  the  gang.  'Pat- 
rick,' for  example,  was  suggested,  but 
Phil  said  the  name  aggravates  him  some- 
thing terrible.  We've  almost  decided  to 
settle  for  Frank  spelled  'Phrank'! 

"The  second  point  was  more  important 
than  the  first — at  least,  it  was  to  the  boys. 
In  the  beginning  they  were  horrified  at 
the  idea  of  a  sister.  Peter  said,  'If  we  have 
a  girl,  we'll  break  our  record.'  And  Phillip 
echoed  with,  'That's  right,  we  have  our 
standards  to  keep  up.' "  (Editor's  note: 
This  was  being  written  only  shortly  be- 
fore the  baby's  birth,  and  Gale  herself 
said:  "But  I'm  sure  we're  having  a  boy — 
right  now  I  can't  imagine  anything  else.") 

Though  he  admits  it  almost  reluctantly, 
Lee  at  first  wanted  a  girl.  But  he  agrees 
now  that  he'll  take  anything  he  gets.  Says 
Gale  with  a  smile,  "I  think  he's  being  a 
pretty  good  sport  about  the  whole  thing, 
don't  you?"  She  continues,  more  serious- 
ly, "Lee  is  the  kind  of  husband  who 
loves  babies.  When  the  three  boys  were 
infants,  he  got  up  with  me  every  night, 
and  I  sometimes  felt  he  got  as  much  out 
of  it  from  the  paternal  standpoint  as  I  did 
maternally — he's  not  just  a  'play'  daddy." 

Lee,  in  fact,  had  a  younger  sister  who 
was  born  when  he  was  twelve  years  old. 
The  fact  that  he  is  such  a  good  father 
Gale  attributes  to  the  early  experiences 
Lee  had  with  his  infant  sister:  "He  learned 
to  diaper  the  baby,"  she  says,  "to  bathe 
and  feed  her.  His  mother  and  father 
turned  her  over  to  him  to  care  for — not 
entirely,  of  course,  but  enough  so  that 
he  soon  learned  how  to  look  after  a  baby's 
needs.  As  a  result,  he  soon  learned  to 
love  his   little   sister. 

"We  rather  hope  the  same  thing  will 
happen  with  our  new  child,  and  our  boys 
will  learn  to  bathe,  diaper  and  generally 
care  for  the  infant.  I  think  it  will  help 
them   become   better   fathers. 

"Already,"  Gale  continues,  "the  ex- 
pected coming  of  the  baby  has  made  some 
small  changes  in  the  house.  We  are  work- 
ing more  closely,  more  as  a  family.  Not 
that  we  needed  anything  before  to  bring 
us  closer  together,  but  this  has  brought 
about  conditions  which  force  us  to  think 
more  frequently  of  one  another  rather 
than  ourselves.  For  example,  we  haven't 
had  domestic  help  for  the  past  month, 
because  of  vacations,  and  everyone  has 
pitched  in  to  keep  the  house  in  good  shape. 

"After  the  baby  is  able  to  leave  its 
bassinet,  which  we'll  keep  in  our  room, 
Peter  and  Paul  have  agreed  to  share  half 
of  their  large  divided  bedroom.  After 
putting  the  partition  into  place,  we  will 
turn  the  other  half  into  a  nursery.  The 
room  is  wired  so  Lee  and  I  will  hear  every 
sound. 

"Share  and  share  alike.  We  all  agree 
it's  the  greatest  family  experience  we've 
ever  had!" 


Hey 
Gals! 

Win 
a  date 
with 
Sal  Mineo 

See    PHOTOPLAY'S    fabulous    contest— be    Sal's    gal    for    one 
glorious  day  of  excitement  in  Hollywood 


AT  NEWSSTANDS  NOW 


Also   in   this   issue   of 


PHOTOPLAY 


ELVIS  PRESLEY  in  Hollywood! 
Elvis  takes  Hollywood  by  storm  .  . 
but  loved  him  instead 


PLUS  PINUPS 
.  they  were  set  to  hate  him 


ALSO 

Last  chance  in  PHOTOPLAY's 
Look  at  these  prizes  .  .  .  $2000 

Matico  Asphalt  Tile  to  cover  floors 

of  3  average-size  rooms 
Gorham  Chest  of  Sterling  Silver  service 

for  8 
Lucien   Piccard  wristwatch 
Towle  enamel  and   silver  bowl 
Pond's  Travel  case  and  Sue  Brett 

Travel  dress 
Mohawk   Carpet  and    Foamset  Carpet 

cushion 
Lane  Cedar  Chest 
Regina   Electrikbroom 
Morse  Super-Fotomatic  sewing  machine 
Lady  Manhattan  shirt  and  skirt 
Durkopp  sewing  machine 
Plymouth  of  Boston  imported  man's 

raincoat 
Eagle  sports  coat   (man's) 
Samsonite  luggage   (2  pieces) 
RCA  Victor  "Personal"  TV 
Universal  Coffeematic,   10-cup,  Chrome 

from  Landers,  Frary  &  Clark 
Trim  Tred  Shoe  wardrobe 
Lady  Esther  cosmetics 
Toni  Viv  Tote-Bag 


exciting  picture-puzzle  contest 
in  Cash  .  .  .  PLUS 

Wear-Ever  Hallite  Home  Set 

Cannon  Towel  Gift  Set 

Year's  supply  of  Coty's  Fragrances 

Underwood  De  Luxe  Portable  Typewriter 

%-oz.  bottle  of  Schiaparelli  "Shocking" 
perfume,  enough  to  last  a  year 

Sportswear  from  Pendleton  Woolen  Mills 

Lady  Buxton  Gift  Set 

Cutex  Set  case,  plus  year's  supply  of 
Cutex   products 

Helene  Curtis  Gift  Assortment 

Helene  Curtis  $25.00  Permanent  Wave 
Certificate 

Two  pairs  of  Huskies  shoes 

10  Breck  Gift  Sets 

Year's    supply    of   Woodbury    Shampoo 

Holmes  &  Edwards  DeepSilver  34-piece 
set,  service  for  8 

3  Catalina  sweaters 

Revere  Ware  combination  egg-poacher- 
skillet 

G-E   Portable   Electric   Radio 

Meyer  Stoll  Inc.  "Kennie"  original  coat 
(woman's) 


67 


. 


Little  Miss  Ames 


(Continued  from  page  51) 
last  April  2nd,  the  day  The  Edge  Of  Night 
first  went  on  the  air.  She  had  created 
this  girl.  Her  identification  with  Sara 
meant  that  while  she  and  the  heroine  of 
The  Edge  Of  Night  were  just  enough 
alike  to  make  the  show  fun  to  do,  she  was 
also  an  actress  who  could  in  many  ways 
be  different  from  a  role  and  still  make 
it  very  real. 

"Basically,  it  is  true  that  Sara  and  I  are 
much  alike,"  Teal  says.  "The  differences 
are  partly  in  the  circumstances  of  our 
lives.  We  are  both  independent  people 
who  like  to  solve  our  own  problems.  I 
have  had  a  fairly  easy  life  so  far.  While 
circumstances  have  been  putting  heavy 
responsibilities  upon  Sara,  and  given  her 
a  maturity  rather  rare  in  a  girl  of  her 
age,  I  had  no  such  burdens  to  carry.  Like 
Sara,  however,  I  started  out  early  to  be 
independent.  I  rebelled  against  being  too 
sheltered.  I  suspect  that  many  children 
are  independent  by  nature  and  are  ready 
to  begin  working  out  their  own  lives  be- 
fore parents  realize  it." 

Other  qualities  which  Sara  and  Teal 
have  in  common  are  a  warm  and  friend- 
ly attitude  towards  the  world,  a  trust  in 
people  and  a  belief  in  their  innate  good- 
ness. "I'm  even  more  believing  than 
Sara,  and  we  are  both  probably  too  trust- 
ing at  times.  Neither  of  us  ever  thinks 
anyone  would  set  out  deliberately  to  fool 
us,  or  to  hurt  us.  We  both  get  'burned' 
now  and  then,  and  still  go  on  expecting 
the  best  in  the  people  around  us.  I  doubt 
that  we  could  change,  if  we  wanted  to." 
Teal,  who  will  be  twenty-six  next  De- 
cember 7th,  is  a  vivacious  girl  with  golden- 
brown  hair,  blue  eyes,  the  merest  flick 
of  pale  freckles  adorning  her  pretty  nose, 
a  tenderly  curved  mouth.  She  is  a  slim- 
waisted  five  feet  three  and  a  half  inches, 
weighs  around  110  pounds,  never  seems  to 
gain  no  matter  how  much  she  eats.  She 
has  poise  and  dignity.  She  has  intelli- 
gence and  humor.  But  probably  the  first 
thing  you  notice  is  her  friendly  directness. 
When  she  acknowledges  an  introduction 
and  says  she  is  glad  to  meet  you,  you  feel 
she  genuinely  is.  Her  manner  indicates 
that  you  are  a  new  experience  for  her, 
and  may  turn  out  to  be  a  new  friend. 

The  name  of  Teal  is  really  a  nickname, 
the  only  one  she  has  used  since  she  was 
seven.  Her  full  name  is  Ottilie,  pro- 
nounced O-teel-yah,  with  the  accent  on 
the  middle  syllable.  Kids  at  school  found 
that  difficult,  called  her  everything  from 
Ophelia  and  Amelia  to  Tilly.  This  final 
tampering  with  the  musical  sound  of  her 
name  was  too  much  for  a  seven-year-old 
to  bear.  After  a  conference  with  her 
mother,  it  was  decided  they  would  do 
the  nicknaming,  and  Teal  it  became. 

As  the  eldest  of  five  children — three 
girls  who  were  fairly  grown-up  by  the 
time  their  brother  Bill,  now  nine,  came 
along,  and  another  little  half-brother  not 
yet  two  years  old— Teal  showed  a  talent 
for  music,  singing,  and  learning  to  play 
the  piano  very  early.  She  also  showed  a 
talent  for  performing,  and  with  her  next 
youngest  sister  did  a  duo  act  at  clubs  and 
church  affairs,  and  at  school  entertain- 
ments. A  part  in  a  one-act  play  at  grade 
school  and,  later,  the  intoxicating  whiff 
of  greasepaint  in  a  small  part  in  a  high- 
school  drama,  were  heady  enough  experi- 
ences to  make  her  want  more.  When  op- 
portunities came,  she  was  willing  to  work 
T  hard  to  make  good  in  them. 
V  Home  movies  may  have  encouraged  the 
r  Thespian  urge.  Her  father's  hobby  was 
not  only  recording  the  stages  of  the  chil- 
dren's growing-up,  but  he  did  short  docu- 
mentary-type   films   that   had   to   do   with 


civic  matters  and  community  events.  Teal 
was  always  one  of  the  "stars,"  at  home 
before  the  camera,  loving  to  "act"  and  to 
be  photographed,  fancying  herself  a  real 
movie  star.  Little  Bill  even  now  calls 
Teal  his  "movie  star  sister,"  ever  since 
he  spent  a  day  on  The  Edge  Of  Night  set 
as  part  of  a  birthday  visit  to  New  York, 
and  saw  her  surrounded  by  all  those 
cameras  and  sound  equipment,  just  like 
the  Hollywood  stars! 

Teal  was  almost  lost  to  acting  when  she 
worked  in  the  personnel  department  of  a 
big  store  between  high  school  and  college. 

"My  father  was  against  my  working 
at  the  time,  but  there  was  that  need  for 
independence  already  stirring  within  me, 
and  I  wanted  to  buy  my  own  clothes  and 
provide  my  own  spending  money.  The  store 
wanted  to  train  me  for  executive  person- 
nel work,  but  my  father  had  his  heart  set 
on  my  going  to  college,  and  I  knew  he  was 
right."  As  a  concession  to  her  parents,  she 
chose  a  course  in  radio  rather  than  straight 
drama  when  she  matriculated  at  Stephens 
College,  at  Columbia,  Missouri.  "They  felt 
it  would  be  more  practical,  but  my  own 
good  intentions  lasted  exactly  two  days. 
Then  I  switched  over  to  the  drama  de- 
partment, having  to  change  my  whole 
schedule,  but  soon  getting  into  all  the 
dramatic  activities  and  the  plays.  After 
that  first  year  at  Stephens  I  transferred  to 
Syracuse  University,  in  New  York,  to  be 
nearer  home  because  of  my  father's  ill- 
ness.    He  passed  on  in  1950." 

After  three  months  at  Syracuse,  Teal 
was  given  the  lead  in  a  play  being  tried 
out  for  Broadway.  The  play  never  made 
it,  but  that  chance  part  was  all  the  en- 
couragement Teal  needed.  Along  with 
her  regular  college  work,  she  was  either 
rehearsing  or  performing  during  the  re- 
mainder of  her  college  days.  So  it  was 
hardly  a  surprise  when,  two  days  after 
graduation,  she  struck  out  for  New  York, 
a  city  strange  to  her,  where  she  knew 
no  one.  "This  was  a  little  unheard  of  in 
our  family,  but  I  went  with  their  bless- 
ing. I  did  have  some  moments  of  fear, 
as  I  am  sure  they  must  have,  but  I  now 
had  the  need  to  be  on  my  own." 

It  was  in  June,  1953,  that  Teal  came  to 
New  York,  a  time  when  the  theatrical 
business  prepares  to  enter  the  summer 
doldrums,  in  spite  of  air-conditioning  and 
tourist  influx.  In  four  days  the  confident 
Teal  had  her  Actors'  Equity  card,  the 
symbol  of  the  professional,  and  a  summer 
stock  company  job. 

"When  the  summer  job  ended,  I  learned 
about  show  business  the  hard  way.  Luck 
had  been  with  me,  but  now  the  testing 
time  came.  I  began  the  long  process  of 
what  is  known  as  'making  rounds,'  seeing 
agents  and  producers  and  casting  person- 
nel— when  I  could  get  in  to  see  them — 
leaving  glamour  photographs  and  'vital 
statistics'  and  never  knowing  whether 
anyone  but  the  receptionist  in  the  outer 
office  ever  glanced  at  them. 

"I  learned  what  it  means  to  walk  and 
walk  and  walk,  from  place  to  place.  My 
roommate  at  that  time  was  a  dancer,  and 
when  I  came  home  almost  crying  with 
the  pain  of  aching  feet,  she  taught  me 
how  to  bathe  them  back  to  comfort,  how 
to  do  relaxing  exercises  and  to  massage 
tired  muscles.  I  began  to  think  that  such 
things  should  be  part  of  the  curriculum 
of  every  drama  class!" 

The  first  television  break  was  a  general 
audition  at  CBS,  which  led  to  a  walk-on 
part  in  a  Studio  One  production.  Some 
time  later  she  was  to  co-star  with  Faye 
Emerson  in  "Melissa,"  a  Studio  One 
drama  that  became  a  turning  point  in  her 
career.    (Another  turning  point  was  a  role 


in  a  Goodyear  Playhouse  drama,  and  a 
magazine  story  that  featured  her  work 
in    it,    choosing   her    "star    for    a   night.") 

"In  'Melissa'  I  had  my  first  big,  impor- 
tant role  on  television.  Faye  Emerson  was 
wonderful  for  a  young  actress  to  work 
with.  Generous.  Kind.  During  rehearsal, 
the  director  stood  right  in  front  of  me 
during  one  scene  and  I  wondered  why 
he  would  be  there,  when  the  scene  was 
hard  enough  to  do  without  his  nearness. 

"Faye  saw  my  confusion  and  took  me 
aside  during  a  break.  'He's  showing  you 
exactly  where  the  camera  will  be  and 
where  you  will  have  to  play  to  it,'  she  ex- 
plained. It  was  basic  knowledge  to  more 
seasoned  TV  performers,  but  terribly  dis- 
concerting for  me  until  she  cleared  it  up. 
She  did  many  things  like  that." 

Before  this  taste  of  success  came  to 
Teal,  however,  there  were  minor  jobs  of 
many  sorts,  in  and  out  of  television.  She 
almost  became  the  "Betty  Furness  of 
Pittsburgh"  at  one  point.  A  local  jeweler 
wanted  her  to  do  the  TV  commercials  for 
shows  it  sponsored.  She  did,  for  about 
six  weeks,  but  it  wasn't  "acting"  and  not 
even  the  steady  salary  tempted  her  for 
any  longer.  She  next  made  a  few  com- 
mercial films,  then  clerked  in  a  New  York 
department  store.  For  a  time  worked  in 
the  subscription  department  of  a  big 
newspaper  in  the  evenings,  so  her  days 
could  be  free  to  make  rounds  and  read 
parts.  Then  she  was  a  girl  Friday  to  a 
couple  of  photographers,  taking  short- 
hand and  doing  typing  (which  she  had 
been  smart  enough  to  take  at  school,  even 
when  her  heart  was  set  on  being  an  ac- 
tress). "I  got  all  my  photographs  free,  no 
small  item  for  an  actress  who  has  to  leave 
pictures  wherever  she  applies  for  work." 

1  wo  other  opportunities  came  along  at 
about  this  same  time,  before  she  was  set 
for  The  Edge  Of  Night,  but  when  the  mo- 
ment of  decision  arrived  she  knew  she 
wanted  to  be  Sara  Lane.  "Someone  had 
seen  some  of  my  photographs  and  thought 
I  was  very  like  Sara,  but  no  one  at  the 
agency  had  heard  of  me  before  I  read 
for  the  part  the  first  time.  The  reading 
was  not  with  John  Larkin,  who  plays 
Lt.  Detective  Mike  Karr,  engaged  to  Sara 
in  the  story,  but  with  someone  who  hap- 
pened to  be  in  the  office.  It  was  partly 
a  love  scene,  difficult  to  do  under  those 
circumstances.  I  got  through  it,  they 
thanked  me,  and  I  left. 

"A  day  later  I  was  asked  to  read  again, 
this  time  with  John,  whose  experience  and 
poise  helped  me  tremendously.  I  got  a 
third  call,  and  read  again.  Then,  around 
five  o'clock  one  afternoon,  a  fourth  call 
came,  asking  me  to  read  at  seven  o'clock. 
The  final  reading.    This  was  it. 

"John  read  with  me  this  time  again, 
and  with  the  two  other  girls  who  were 
also  being  considered  for  the  part.  I  was 
the  first.  I  was  thanked  again,  and  again 
I  left,  this  time  feeling  that  it  was  going , 
to  be  my  part.  In  fact,  I  already  felt  a 
little  like  Sara  Lane.  An  hour  later  I 
learned  my  hunch  was  right.   I  was  Sara." 

The  first  thing  Teal  asked  herself  was 
that  eternal  question  of  woman:  What 
will  I  wear  on  the  show?  Practically 
nothing  she  had  seemed  right  to  her.  The 
show  began  on  Easter  Monday,  and  the 
day  before  Easter  she  went  shopping. 

"I  came  home  with  two  pairs  of  shoes. 
No  new  dress,  no  suit,  no  coat,  nothing 
but  lovely  shoes.  My  weakness!  I  had 
spent  too  much  time  in  the  shoe  depart- 
ment. I  had  to  start  the  show  with  what 
I  had,  until  arrangements  were  made  to 
provide  special  clothes  for  the  players. 
Very  attractive,  wearable  clothes,  I  think 
— the  kind  T  like  to  wear  off  the  program 


well  as  on,"  Teal  says  with  satisfaction. 
Her  taste  in  clothes,  and  for  that  mat- 
ter, in  home  surroundings,  runs  to  touches 
of  bright  color,  and  pinks  and  blues  and 

le  yellows  that  set  off  her  burnished 
lair.    She   likes   the   basic   black    dresses 

lat  can  be  changed  by  using  different 
accessories,  but  wears  no  black  on  TV. 
She   loves  to  dress  up,  but  isn't  a   frilly 

ype.  She  is  practical  about  clothes,  ex- 
cept  when   it   comes    to    shoes,    and    then 

le  goes  overboard! 
The  players  in  The  Edge  Of  Night,  the 

writer,  producer  and  directors  keep  the 
story    a    real    one,    reflecting    experiences 

vhich  viewers  can  identify  with.  While 
some  of  the  problems  seem  to  be  unique 
to  the  people  on  the  screen,  many  viewers 
recognize  a  similarity  to  their  own  doubts 
and  fears,  their  own  joys  and  triumphs. 
They  share  Teal's  anxieties  and  they  re- 
joice when  situations  are  cleared  up. 

'ehearsals   begin   at   9:30   A.M.   and   last 

itil  air  time,  which  is  4:30  to  5  P.M. 
Eastern  Standard  Time.  "In  all  these 
lonths  of  being  together  so  constantly, 
lobody  has  been  difficult  to  work  with. 
7e  don't  get  on  one  another's  nerves.  We 
all  have  fun,  and  it's  just  great,"  says  Teal. 

"John  Larkin,  who  co-stars  as  my 
fiance,  Detective  Lt.  Mike  Karr,  is  not 
only  a  very  direct  and  forceful  actor,  but 
a  direct  and  wonderful  person.  Werner 
Michel,  the  producer,  and  the  alternating 
directors,  Dick  Sandwick  and  Don  Wal- 
lace, are  tops.  The  whole  cast  and  crew 
are  real  pros,  every  one,  and  I  have  had 
only  kindness  from  them.  We  have  a  new 
star  on  the  show  too,  my  puppy,  a  brown 
female  poodle  named  Chrys.  We  used 
her,  rather  hesitantly  the  first  time,  in  a 
scene  with  Maxine  Stuart,  who  plays  my 
friend  Grace.  It  turned  out  to  be  quite  a 
triumphant  debut.  I  stood  at  the  side  of 
the  set,  thinking,  'Puppy,  Puppy,  obey 
and  don't  spoil  the  scene!'  She  was  born 
to  act — she  turned  her  face  to  the  camera 
at  just  the  right  moments,  yawned,  did 
everything  she  had  been  rehearsed  to  do. 
It  was  really  fantastic.  The  beginning  of 
what  I  am  sure  will  be  a  brilliant  career 
for  Chrys,  a  real  scene-stealer." 

In  case  you  still  think  the  life  of  a 
young  TV  actress  is  all  glamour  off- 
screen, Teal  can  tell  you  about  the  eve- 
nings when  she  has  to  study  her  next 
day's  script,  when  the  phone  rings  with 
pleasant  invitations  delivered  in  appeal- 
ing voices  that  have  to  be  turned  down. 
Evenings  when  she  would  love  to  whip 
up  some  of  her  special  dishes,  such  as  a 
delectable  beef  stroganoff,  shrimp  with  a 
tangy  sauce,  fabulously  concocted  salad 
platters,  and  invite  the  gang  in  to  enjoy 
them.  This  seldom  happens  on  a  week 
night,  except  when  there's  a  day  off  to 
follow.  She  doesn't  even  have  time  to 
shop  for  food,  keeps  enough  staple  foods 
on  hand  to  tide  her  over,  when  she  doesn't 
rely  on  restaurants. 

For  a  girl  whose  phone  never  seems  to 
stop  ringing,  her  lack  of  time  for  social 
life  seems  a  bit  hard,  although  she  cares 
little  for  night-clubbing  and  misses  only 
the  chance  to  go  to  the  theater  as  often 
as  she  would  like  to,  and  to  the  movies. 

Teal  talks  freely  about  the  kind  of 
home  she  wants,  some  day  after  she  mar- 
ries, instead  of  the  little  one  room  and 
kitchenette  apartment  she  has  now.  She 
talks  of  the  family  she  wants  to  have  and 
she  believes  strongly  that  a  woman's  per- 
sonal life,  the  life  of  the  heart  and  spirit 
come  first,  and  career  second,  and  feels 
sure  they  can  be  combined  happily. 

Until  that  day  comes,  she  seems  quite 
content  to  be  that  independent-minded 
Teal  Ames,  a  girl  enough  like  Sara  Lane 
to  make  you  admire  her  for  Sara's  sake, 
and  just  enough  different  to  make  you 
like  her  very  much  for  her  own. 


OPPORTUNITIES 


for  EVERYBODY 


Publisher'^  Classified  Department  (Trademark) 


For  dauifisd  advrlaing  rates,  writ*  to  William  R.  Stewart,  9  South  Clinton  Street,  Chicago  6  f  rVom.-Dec.J  6 


FEMAIE   HEtP  WANTED 

IF  YOU'RE  INTERESTED  in  making  money  in  selling,  in 
spare  time  or  in  full  time,  see  the  hundreds  of  exceptional  op- 
portunities in  Opportunity  Magazine.  Send  name  for  your 
absolutely  Free.  Opportunity,  848  N.  Dearborn,  Dept.  32, 


copy,     . 
Chicago  10, 


BEAUTY  DEMONSTRATORS— TO  $5  hour  demonstrating 
Famous  Hollywood  Cosmetics,  your  neighborhhood.  For  free 
samples,  details,  write  Studio  Girl,   Glendale,   Calif.,   Dept. 

16612C. "^ 

$2.00  HOURLY  POSSIBLE  doing  light  assembly  work  at 
home.   Experience    unnecessary.  Crown    Industries,  8507-B 

West  Third,  Los  Angeles  48,  Calif. 

HOME  WORKERS.  MAKE  hand-made  moccasins.  Good  pay. 
Experience  unnecessary.  California  Handicrafts.  Los  Angeles 

46,  California, 

HOME  SEWERS  WANTED -Earn  cash  making  readi-cut 
ties.  We  instruct.  Jud  San,  518  E.  105th,  Dept.  M1,  Cleveland 

8,  Ohio. 

EARN  EXTRA  MONEY  selling  Advertising  Book  Matches. 
Free  sample  kit  furnished.  Matchcorp,  Dept.  WP-32,  Chicago 

32,  Illinois. 

FASCINATING  WORK  AT  Homel  We  pay  you  I  No  selling  I 

Truart,  Box  710,  Pasadena,  Calif. 

HOME  SEWING.  READY-Cut  Rap-Around.  Profitable.  Free 
instructions.  Hollywood  Manufacturing,  Hollywood  46,  Calif. 

MONEY   MAKING  OPPORTUNITIES 

GUARANTEED  HOMEWORKl  IMMEDIATE  Commis- 
sions!  Everything   Furnishedl   Hirsch,    1301-12   Hoo  Ave., 

New  York  City  59. 

EXTRA  MONEY  PREPARING  Mailing  Postcards,  Mr.  Gul, 

1815  Meyers,  Lombard,  III. 

OPERATE  RESTAURANT  OR  diner.  Free  booklet  reveals 
plan.  Write  Restaurant  Arts,  MO-512,  Fremont,  Ohio. 
MAKE  $125.00  WEEKLY  preparing  postcards.  Instructions 

$1.00.  (refundable),  Ewell  Farley,  Harlan,  Ky. 

MAKE  MONEY  MAILING  Catalogs.  $100.00  Weekly  Pos- 

sible.  Products,  2342S  Washington,  Chicago  12,  III. 

$35  WEEKLY  PREPARING  envelopes.  Instructions  $1.  Re- 
fundable. Adservice,  Spring  Valley  151,  New  York. 

$25  WEEKLY  POSSIBLE,  sparetime,  preparing  advertising 

mailings  at  home.  Temple  Co.,  Muncie2,  Indiana. 

MAKE  YOUR  TYPEWRITER  Earn    Money.  Send  $1.00. 

Huges,  7004  Diversey,  Chicago  35. 

AGENTS  WANTED 

60%  PROFIT  COSMETICS.  $25  Day  Up.  Hire  others.  Sam- 
ples, details.  Studio  Girl  Hollywood,  Glendale,  Calif.,  Dept. 

"FOG-STOP"  WINDSHIELD  Cloth.  Instantly  removes 
blurry  Mist,  Frost,  Sleet,  Snow.  Stops  windshield  fogging. 
Samples  sent  on  trial.  Knstee  Co.,  Dept.  145,  Akron  8,  Ohio. 
CALIFORNIA  SWEET  SMELLING  Beads.  Sensational 
sellers.  Free  Particulars.  Mission,  2328AA  West  Pico,  Los 

Angeles  6,  California. 

DO-IT-YOURSELF 

LEARN  ART  METALCRAFT  and  jewelry  making.  Complete 
inexpensive,  home  training  course  now  available.  Special  tools 
and  materials  furnished.  Write  for  free  booklet.  Interstate 

Training  Service,  Dept.  L-73,  Portland  13,  Oregon. 

FOREIGN  &   U.S.A.   JOB  LISTINGS 

HIGH  PAYING  JOBS.  All  types.  Foreign  U.S.  Chance  to 
Travel.  Fare  paid.  Application  Forms.  For  Information  Write 

Section  95B,  National,  1020  Broad,  Newark,  N.J. 

HOME  SEWERS  OPPORTUNITIES 

SEW  BABY  SHOES  at  home.  No  canvassing.  $40.00  weekly 
possible.  Write:  Tiny-Tot,  Gallipolis  19,  Ohio. 

EDUCATIONAl  OPPORTUNITIES 

HIGH  SCHOOL  DIPLOMA  at  home.  Licensed  teachers. 
Approved  materials.  Southern  States  Academy,  Box  144W, 

Station  E,  Atlanta,  Georgia. 

INSTRUCTION 

FINISH  HIGH  SCHOOL  at  home,  spare  time.  No  classes. 
Diploma  awarded.  Write  for  Free  catalog  Wayne  School, 
Catalog  HCH-38  2527  Sheffield,  Chicago  14 


OF  INTEREST  TO  WOMEN 


$200.  MONTHLY  POSSIBLE,  Sewing  Babywear—  Play-Time 
Dresses;  lacing  Leather  Moccasins!  New  Baby  Sandalsl  No 
house  selling!  Rush  stamped,  addressed  envelope  for  further 

details.  Babygay,  Warsaw  1,  Indiana. 

$350  FOR  YOUR  child's  photo,  all  ages,  if  used  for  advertising. 
May  also  qualify  for  Free  Camera.  Send  photo  for  approval. 
Returned    two   weeks.    Advertisers,    6000-YZ    Sunset,    Los 

Angeles  28. 

FREE— BIG  NEW  Wholesale  Catalog!  Up  to  50%  saving  for 
you.  family,  friends  on  nationally-known  gifts,  jewelry,  toys, 
appliances.  Christmas  cards,  etc.  Also  make  money  selling 
part  time  I  Write;  Evergreen  Studios,  Box  846-P,  Chicago  42, 1 1  f- 
COMPLETE  YOUR  HIGH  School  at  home  in  spare  time 
with  59-year-old  school.  Texts  furnished.  No  classes.  Diploma. 
Information    booklet    free.   American   School,    Dept.    X974 

Drexel  at  58th,  Chicago,  37,  Illinois. 

$350  FOR  YOUR  Child's  Photo  (all  ages).  Thousands  paid  by 
advertisers.  Send  one  small  picture.  Returned  with  judges'  re- 
port. Print  child's  and  parents'  names  on  back.  Spotlite,  1611- 

P-12  No.  LaBrea,  Hollywood,  Calif. 

$30.00  WEEKLY  MAKING  Roses.  Look,  Smell  real.  Studio 

Company,  Greenville  12,  Pa. 

PROFITABLE  HOME  BUSINESS.  Make  Fast-Selling  che- 
nile  monkey  trees.  Literature  free.  Velva,  Bohemia  32,  N.Y. 
SEW  OUR  READY  cut  aprons  at  home,  spare  time.  Easy, 

Profitable.  Hanky  Aprons,  Ft.  Smith  3,  Ark.  

EARN  $50  FAST  sewing  our  precut  products.  Information  3c. 

Thompson's,  Loganville,  Wisconsin. 

MAKE  MONEY  CLIPPING  Newspaper  Items  For  Publishersl 

Write,  Newscraft,  PW-983-E.  Main,  Columbus  5,  Ohio. 

PERSONAL 

BORROWING  BY  MAIL  Loans  $100  to  $600  to  employed 
men  and  women.  Easy,  quick.  Completely  confidential.  No 
endorsers.  Repay  in  convenient  monthly  payments.  Details 
free  in  plain  envelope.  Give  occupation.  State  Finance  Co., 

323  Securities  Bldg.,  Dept.  E-69,  Omaha  2,  Nebraska. 

LOANS  BY  MAIL.  $100— $600.  Anywhere.  Air  Mail  Service. 
Postal  Finance,  200  Keeline  Building,  Dept.  653-X,  Omaha  2, 
N  p  hr£a^K3 
YOUR  HANDWRITING  ANALYZED  free.  Enclose  stamp. 

IGAS,  Inc.,  Springfield  4,  Missouri. 

LOANS   BY  MAIL 

BORROW  $50  TO  $500.  Employed  men  and  women  over  25, 
eligible.  Confidential— no  co-signers— no  inquiries  of  employ- 
ers or  friends.  Repay  in  monthly  payments  to  fit  your  income. 
Supervised  by  State  of  Nebraska.  Loan  application  sent  free 
in  plain  envelope.  Give  occupation.  American  Loan  Plan, 
City  National  Bldg.,  Dept.  WD-12,  Omaha,  Nebraska. 

BUSINESS  OPPORTUNITIES 

PREPARE  ADVERTISING   LETTERS.  Mail  to  our  name 


lists.    $50    weekly    possible. 
Downey,  California. 


Adams    11603-R    Paramount: 


HEALTH   «■  MEDICAL  SERVICE 

FREE  BOOK— PILES,  Fistula,  Colon-Stomach,  associated 
conditions.    Newest  scientific  procedures.  Thornton   Minor 

Hospital,  Suite  C-1213,  Kansas  City  9,  Mo. 

OLD   COINS  &  MONEY  WANTED 

f 50.00  FOR  CERTAIN  Lincoln  pennies:  Indianheads  $100.00. 
ooklet   showing   prices   paid,   25c.   Lincoln   Coins,   D-76. 

Glendale,  Arizona. 

WE  PURCHASE  INDIANHEAD  pennies.  Complete  allcoin 
catalogue  25c.  Magnacoins,  Box  61-IH,  Whitestone  57,  N.Y. 

WHOLESALE   CATALOGS        

WHOLESALE  CATALOG!  30-80%  Discounts!  Appliances, 
Musical  Instruments,  Typewriters,  Tools,  Watches,  Jewelry, 
Cameras,  Housewares,  etc.  Consolidated  Distributors,  1300- 

28  Main,  Clifton,  N.J. 

WHOLESALE:  PHONOGRAPHS.  RADIOS.  Tape  Recorders. 
Catalogue  25c  (refundable.)  Towers — 155,   Philadelphia  5. 

WORK   AT  HOME 

HOME  SEWERS  WITH  sewing  machine.  Write  enclosing 
stamp  for  working  details.  Liebig  Enterprises,  Beaver  Dam  2, 

Wisconsin. 

$5.00  DAILY,  MAKING  scented  Orchids.  Free  Sample. 
Boycan  Industries,  Sharon  41,  Penna. 


In*" HIGH  SCHOOLS* 


No  classes  to  attend.  Easy  spare-time  train- 
ing covers  big  choice  of  subjects.  Friendly  \ 
instructors;  standard  texts.  Full  credit  for\ 
previous  schooling.     Diploma  awarded.) 
Write  now  for  FREE  catalog! 

WAYNE    SCHOOL    Catalog   HH-41 
2527  Sheffield  Ave,  Chicago  14,  Illinois/ 


NU-NAILS 

ARTIFICIAL  FINGERNAILS 

Cover  short,  broken,  thin  nails 
with  ktu-nails.  Applied  in  a  jiffy 
with  our  amazing  new  quick-dry- 
ing glue.  Can  be  worn  any  length 
. . .  polished  any  shade.  Help  over- 
come nail-biting  habit.  Set of ten 
25c.  At  dime,  drag  &  dept.  stores. 

NU-NAILS  CO.,  Dept.   1 6-S' 

S251  W.  Harrison,  Chicago  44? 
Also  Hollywood  Fingernails... 

Permanent  Dubonett  Rose  Color. 
No  polish  required . . .  39c  set. 


SWARoTOS 

Everybody's  doing  it! 

Beautiful  portrait-quality 

photos  made  from  your 

favorite  snapshot  or  portrait 

For  Super-Speed  service, 

send  25c  extra 

Send  picture  and  money  to: 

WALLET  PHOTOS,  Hillside,  N.I.  BOX  Q-4 


we  pay  postage 


MONEY  BACK  GUARANTEE 


Wash  Hair 
BRIGHTER,  SHINIER, 
SHADES  LIGHTER 
Safely!       W^ 


\ 


Now,  without  tints,  rinses  or  ugly 
bleached  took,  you  can  safely 
give  your  hair  the  radiant  blonde 
color  men  love.  BLONDEX  the  new 
11  -minute  home  lotion  shampoo- 
made  fresh  as  you  need  it— con- 
tains AND1UM  for  extra-lightness 
and  shine.  Instantly  removes  dingy 
film  that  makes  hair  dark.  Washes 
blonde  hair  shades  lighter.  Gives 

it  lovely  lustre.  Gentle  and  safe  for  children's  delicate  hair.  Get 
BLONDEX  at  10«,  drug  or  department  stores. 


V4j 


69 


NEW  DESIGNS  FOR  LIVING 


7163 


70 


671 — Crochet  this  chair  back  in 
pineapple  design  with  shell-stitch 
scallops.  Directions  for  large  chair- 
back  11x18  inches  in  No.  30  mercer- 
ized cotton.  254 

7080 — Knit  this  helmet  and  mitten 
set  for  the  little  miss.  Crochet  flower 
trim  in  gay  colors.  It's  easy.  Direc- 
tions for  set;  Girls'  sizes  4  to  14  in- 
cluded.  25tf 

601 — P.J.  Bunny  Bag — children  pop 
their  pajamas  into  the  slit  in  front. 
Use  up  gay  scraps  to  make  the  two 
flat  pieces  plus  round,  stuffed  head. 
Complete  pattern,  transfers.  25</- 

7163 — Seven  colorful  designs  for 
each  day  of  the  week  to  embroider 
on  kitchen  towels — easy  and  fun  to 
do.  Transfer  and  directions  for  set  of 
seven.  25^ 

534 — Gay  kitchen  aide !  Embroidery 
and  applique  transfers,  easy  direc- 
tions for  making  this  gay  "girl" 
apron,  16  inches  long.  25<f 

7141 — Easy-crochet  hexagon-shape 
design  is  18  inches  diagonally  in  No. 
30  mercerized  cotton.  Smaller  in  No. 
50;  larger  in  bedspread  cotton.  Make 
7  designs  for  50-inch  cloth  in  No.  30 
cotton.  25^' 

7302 — Twelve  months  of  lovely 
blossoms— "blooming"  in  bright  col- 
ors on  this  cozy  quilt.  Symbolic  flow- 
ers for  every  season  of  the  year.  Dia- 
grams, transfers  of  all  12  flowers-of- 
the-year.    Quilt    72x102    inches.    25tf 


Send  twenty-five  cents  (in  coins)  for  each  pattern  to:  TV  Radio  Mirror,  Needlecraft  Service,  P.O.  Box  137,  Old  Chelsea  Station, 
New  York  11,  New  York.  Add  five  cents  for  each  pattern  for  first-class  mailing.  Send  an  additional  25<A  for  Needlecraft  Catalog. 


blue 


(Continued  from  page  41) 
hair,   blue    eyes — Jeannie,    red   hair 
eyes.  She'll  look  great  on  color  TV. 

Trying  to  separate  Jeannie  Carson  from 
Jeannie  MacLennan  (the  part  she  plays  on 
Hey,  Jeannie!)  is  like  trying  to  separate 
"fish  'n'  chips."  The  series  deals  with  the 
adventures  and  misadventures  of  a  pert 
Scotch  lass  who  has  recently  arrived  in 
America  from  Dunfermline.  It's  a  hand-in- 
glove  thing  for  Jeannie.  She  has  a  cute 
Scotch  brogue  as  musical  and  authentic 
as  a  Highlander's  bagpipe. 

I  have  known  Jeannie  ever  since  I  was 
thirteen.  My  parents  owned  the  Reads 
Park  Hotel  in  Blackpool,  England.  A  num- 
ber of  theatrical  people  stopped  there,  and 
one  season  Jeannie  and  her  parents  came 
to  stay  with  us. 

Jeannie  and  I  became  great  pals  straight 
away.  Jeannie  ate  in  our  family  dining 
room  (our  other  guests  ate  in  a  larger 
dining  room  on  the  other  side  of  the  kitch- 
en) .  As  young  girls  we  were  both  great 
eaters  and  loved  my  mother's  English  din- 
ners— roast  beef  and  Yorkshire  pudding 
and  the  wonderful  stews  our  cook  made. 
But  Jeannie  liked  "fish  'n'  chips"  best 
(even  then  she  didn't  have  to  watch  her 
weight) .  Today,  cooking  is  one  of  Jeannie's 
hobbies;  now  she  likes  steak  and  French 
fried  potatoes.  She  puts  vinegar  and  salt 
on  her  French  fries,  as  most  English   do. 

1  hat  summer  at  Blackpool  Jeannie  told 
me  about  her  life  in  the  theater — her  sole 
training  for  the  career  she  dreamed  of  con- 
sisted of  watching  her  parents  perform. 
Her  father,  Peter  Hardy,  was  a  widely 
known  comedian  and  theatrical  writer,  and 
her  mother,  Netta,  a  singer.  Jeannie  was 
a  fixture  backstage  at  nearly  every  theater 
in  England  and  Scotland.  She  loved  the  life 
and  yearned  someday  to  be  warmed  by  the 
footlights,  too.  But  her  father  never  en- 
couraged her  to  seek  a  theatrical  career. 

Through  the  years  that  followed,  Jean- 
nie's uphill  climb  to  stardom  was  long  and 
arduous.  She  worked  first  (simply  to  make 
a  living)  as  a  hotel  maid,  a  children's 
nurse,  and  an  usherette  in  a  cinema. 
Though  the  jobs  with  their  routine  palled 
on  her,  at  least  working  in  a  theater  as 
an  usherette  made  Jeannie  feel  she  was 
a  little  closer  to  her  goal. 

Finally,  taking  her  courage  in  her  hands, 
Jeannie  went  to  another  theater,  lied  to 
the  manager  about  her  age  and,  telling 
him  she  was  over  eighteen,  won  a  place  in 
the  chorus — at  the  end  of  the  line,  where 
her  diminutive  five  feet  two  and  a  half  in- 
ches quite  naturally  placed  her. 

Still  only  fifteen  years  old,  Jeannie 
auditioned  for  the  British  version  of  the 
USO,  but  her  eagerness  almost  ended  in 
catastrophe:  Jeannie  had  decided  to  sing, 
"The  Fleet's  in  Port  Again,"  and  to  be 
properly  outfitted  had  borrowed  bell- 
bottom  trousers,  navy  top  and  a  Jack  Tar's 
cap  from  a  sailor,  on  leave,  who  lived  next 
door  to  her  apartment.  The  top  proved  too 
big — Jeannie  changed  it  for  a  Girl  Guide's 
(Girl  Scout)  uniform.  The  difference  in 
size  should  have  been  a  warning — but  it 
wasn't — half  way  through  the  number  her 
trousers  began  to  slide  down.  In  trying  to 
rescue  them,  her  cap  popped  off,  too,  and 
Jeannie   fled   the   stage   in  tears. 

But  as  she  sat  in  her  dressing  room,  the 
producer  knocked  on  the  door,  telling  her 
he  had  decided  to  take  a  chance  on  her 
ability  as  a  singer,  dancer — and  comedi- 
enne. Jeannie  was  hired  as  the  company's 
new  soubrette. 

The  one-night  stands  .   .   .   entertaining 

troops  all  over  the  British  Isles  .  .  .  flying 

,  in  worn-out  bombers  and  landing  on  dan- 

L  gerously  pock-marked  airfields  .   .   .  hop- 


Jeannie  With  the  Bright  Red  Hair 


ping  from  plane  to  stage  in  order  to  turn 
on  the  glamour  for  the  war-weary  troops 
...  it  was  a  hard  and  tough  training  period. 

At  war's  end,  Jeannie  was  working  in  a 
string  of  what  she  called  "very  second  rate 
theaters,"  in  a  variety  act  which  she  had 
written  herself.  And  the  name  of  Jeannie 
Hardy  was  still  unknown  to  the  world  at 
large.  Jeannie  hoped  that  if  she  changed 
her  name,  she  might  change  her  luck. 

One  day  while  riding  a  bus  through 
Croydon,  she  spied  the  name  Carson  over 
a  prosperous  looking  shop.  So  important 
had  it  become  to  find  a  new  name  for  her- 
self that  she  immediately  decided  to 
adopt  Carson  as  her  surname.  She  says,  "It 
seemed  to  have  brought  those  Carsons 
good  times — if  it  was  good  enough  for 
them,  then  it  was  good  enough  for  me.  And 
Jeannie  Carson  I  became." 

The  stunt  worked — in  fact,  it  had  a 
double-barrelled  reaction:  Jeannie  made 
her  West  End  debut  in  London  in  two 
theaters  at  the  same  time — she  was  under- 
studying for  star  Pat  Kirkwood  at  the 
Hippodrome  at  the  same  time  she  was  do- 
ing a  show  at  the  Palladium.  Then  sudden- 
ly Pat  became  ill  and,  with  only  one 
rehearsal,  Jeannie  filled  in.  She  spent  the 
remainder  of  the  show's  run  flying  across 
town  in  a  cab  changing  her  costume  en- 
route  (for  her  Palladium  sketch  with  Tom- 
my Trinder),  and  flying  back  again  for  the 
finale  at  the  Hippodrome. 

But  back  to  an  earlier  time — after  we 
met,  Jeannie  and  I  did  a  show  together 
called  "Cocoanut  Grove"  at  the  Hippo- 
drome in  Blackpool.  We  did  three  seasons 
there — that  means  twelve  weeks  out  of  the 
year,  three  years  running,  but  every  sea- 
son it  was  a  different  show.  Jeannie  sang 
and  danced — she  was  a  regular  musical 
comedy  star  and  I  was  studying  ballet. 

My  parents'  hotel  had  fourteen  bed- 
rooms, a  giant  kitchen,  two  dining  rooms 
and  a  great  garden  with  mountains  of 
flowers  and  one  big  oak  tree  under  which 
Jeannie  and  I  rehearsed.  Since  I  was  in 
ballet,  I  taught  Jeannie  the  steps  I  knew, 
and  she  taught  me  the  tap  steps  she  knew. 
I'm  sure  we  were  the  only  English  dancers 
with  little  bits  of  acorns  in  our  shoes. 

1  also  remember  how  Jeannie  used  to 
sit  under  the  tree  that  first  season  singing 
her  favorite  song,  "My  Bill  .  .  ."  After  I'd 
known  her  for  a  few  months  I  learned 
why — she  was,  as  you  say  in  this  country, 
"going  steady"  with  Bill  Redmond,  whom 
she  later  married. 

Bill  and  Jeannie  met  in  Blackpool  when 
she  was  only  eleven  years  old.  He  was 
doing  a  comedy  song-and-dance  act  on  the 
same  bill  as  her  father.  Jeannie  told  me 
once  that  even  at  the  tender  age  of  eleven, 
when  she  first  spied  Bill's  lanky  frame, 
blue  eyes  and  dark  hair,  for  her  it  was  love 
at  first  sight.  But  when  her  dad  intro- 
duced them  she  said,  "I  was  extremely 
deflated — Bill  just  patted  me  on  the  head." 

Even  so,  she  used  to  stand  in  the  wings 
proudly  telling  all  the  stage  hands,  "That's 
Bill  Redmond  .  .  .  he's  a  friend  of  my 
father's  .  .  ."  Jeannie  saw  Bill's  show  so 
many  times  that  she  knew  it  by  heart,  and 
as  Bill  built  up  his  gags  she'd  whisper 
the  punch  lines  to  the  stage  manager. 

Some  years  later  they  met  again — this 
time  they  were  playing  summer  shows  in 
Blackpool,  though  in  different  theaters. 
Jeannie  reported,  "Bill  remembered  meet- 
ing me — but  he  didn't  pat  me  on  the  head 
this  time.  Of  course  I  hadn't  forgotten  him 
for  one  day!" 

Bill  and  Jeannie  went  together  for  sev- 
eral years.  I  knew  that  she  was  crazy  about 
him — during  the  summers  when  she  stayed 
with   us   at  the   Hotel,   whenever   she  re- 


ceived one  of  his  letters,  she'd  answer  it 
immediately.  And  whenever  Bill  had  a 
chance,  he  came  to  visit  and  they  went  out 
walking.  You  could  tell  from  the  way  they 
held  hands  they  were  in  love. 

In  1949  Jeannie  and  Bill  were  married 
in  London's  Registry  Office  (which  is  the 
same  as  your  City  Hall).  It  was  a  spur  of 
the  moment  thing— and  a  fast  moving 
morning:  Bill  picked  Jeannie  up  in  a  cab, 
drove  to  the  Registry,  where  they  realized 
suddenly  that  in  their  haste  they  had  for- 
gotten to  arrange  for  witnesses.  A  photog- 
rapher and  reporter  standing  by  served 
the  purpose.  After  the  ceremony,  Bill  took 
Jeannie  to  his  house,  moved  her  bags 
across  town,  and  then  went  off  to  the 
theater  to  work.  They  never  had  a  honey- 
moon. 

But  going  back  to  our  early  teens  to- 
gether— besides  working  together  during 
the  summer,  Jeannie  and  I  spent  all  our 
days  together,  too:  We'd  have  our  morn- 
ing coffee  at  the  Savoy  (a  big  restaurant 
on  the  promenade  where  theatrical  people 
met),  then  we'd  go  shopping,  have  lunch 
out,  followed  by  more  shopping.  Finally, 
we  returned  home,  where  we  washed  and 
then  dashed  off  to  the  theater  for  our  first 
show  at  half  past-six. 

After  three  seasons  of  shows  in  Black- 
pool and  eight-week  winter  seasons  doing 
Christmas  pantomime,  Jeannie  and  I  went 
down  to  London  where  she  starred  in  a 
"Latin  Quarter"  review  at  the  Casino 
Theater  in  the  Soho  district  and  I  danced 
at  the  Follies  Bergere. 

Our  schedule  in  London  was  similar  to 
our  schedule  in  Blackpool — but  because 
there  were  more  stores  we  did  more  shop- 
ping. Jeannie  used  to  make  me  laugh.  In 
fact,  she  made  the  whole  store  laugh.  When 
we  entered,  she  always  headed  first  for 
the  hat  counter,  where  she  proceeded  to  try 
on  every  style  available.  She'd  put  them 
on  at  any  angle  and,  cocking  her  head  to 
one  side,  she'd  ask,  "I  say,  does  this  make 
me  look  the  fair  lady?" 

In  between  the  Latin  Quarter  shows,  I 
danced  in  additional  eight-week  pantomine 
shows  in  both  Scotland  and  Liverpool.  And 
Jeannie,  after  her  Palladium-Hippodrome 
stunt,  took  up  almost  permanent  residence 
at  the  London  Casino,  playing  two  "Latin 
Quarter"  leads.  She  was  also  in  Noel  Cow- 
ard's "Ace  of  Clubs"  at  the  Cambridge 
Theater. 

From  that  she  went  into  "Love  From 
Judy,"  the  English  stage  version  of  "Daddy 
Long  Legs."  Jeannie  had  always  been  mod- 
est about  her  own  abilities,  and  when  she 
opened  she  wasn't  at  all  positive  she  could 
carry  if  off.  In  fact,  she  told  me  later  that 
during  the  first  half  of  "Love  From  Judy" 
she  felt  she  was  dying  on  her  feet — the 
audience  was  absolutely  hushed  and  gave 
up  no  reaction.  But  after  the  first  act  a 
note  came  back  to  her  dressing  room  which 
read,  "Absolutely  star  quality,  my  dear." 
It  was  signed,  "Noel  Coward."  And  the 
critics,  next  morning,  said,  "We  have  just 
seen  the  greatest  first  night  in  twenty-five 
years  of  theater  history  .  .  ."  The  audience's 
quiet  that  Jeannie  had  felt  was  one  of  ad- 
miration not  displeasure.  She  took  fourteen 
curtain  calls,  tearful  and  speechless.  The 
show  ran  two  years  at  the  Saville  Theater, 
breaking  all  house  records. 

The  stage  role  led  to  a  five-year  motion 
picture  contract  with  Britain's  J.  Arthur 
Rank.  Jeannie  will  complete  it  at  the  rate 
of  one  picture  a  year.  It  also  brought  her 
to  the  United  States  in  1955,  where  she 
starred  in  a  series  of  Max  Liebman  spec- 
taculars. The  spectaculars  brought  her  the 
Hey,  Jeannie!  series. 

Jeannie    and   I   were   separated    in    1952 


71 


M 


New  Patterns 
for  You 


4805 — Princess  jumper  with  smooth  fit- 
ted and  flaring  lines  so  flattering  to  every 
figure.  Make  the  companion  blouse  in 
sparkling  contrast.  Misses'  Sizes  12  to  20. 
Size  16  jumper  takes  4%  yards  35-inch 
fabric;  blouse,  2%  yards.  State  size.  35$ 


4807 — Sizes  up  to  50  will  enjoy  the  good 
looks  and  comfortable  fit  of  this  new 
sleep-time  style.  Dress-length  or  long- 
length — vary  neckline  and  sleeves  for  year 
'round  wear.  Women's  Sizes  36  to  50.  Size 
36  takes  4%  yards  35-inch  fabric.  State 
size.  35$. 


4783 — If  you're  the  shorter,  fuller  figure 
— choose  this  step-in  dress  to  keep  you 
looking  slim  and  smart  all  the  time.  Half 
sizes  14x/2  to  24%.  Size  16%  takes  4% 
yards     39-inch     fabric.     State     size.     35$ 


4807 

SIZES 
35-50 


T 

V — 

R  Send  thirty-five  cents  (in  coins)  for  each  pattern  to:  TV  Radio  Mirror,  Pattern  Depart- 
ment. P.O.  Box  137,  Old  Chelsea  Station,  New  York  11,  New  York.  Add  five  cents  for 
each     pattern     for     first-class    mailing.     Be     sure     to     specify    pattern     number     and    size. 


when  I  came  to  the  States.  But  we  wrote  to 
one  another  faithfully.  Then  a  year  ago, 
when  she  arrived  in  New  York,  I  imme- 
diately went  down  to  the  Statler  Hotel  to 
meet  her.  She  wanted  to  know  all  about 
New  York  and  what  I  thought  of  the  States, 
and  I  asked  about  London.  She  hadn't 
changed,  except  that  she  had  lost  weight 
and  now  had  short  hair.  But  for  that 
matter,  so  had  I. 

When  Jeannie  and  her  husband  went  to 
Hollywood  to  film  the  Hey,  Jeannie!  series 
for  CBS,  Jeannie  was  thrilled  with  three 
things:  The  climate,  the  cars,  and  the  high- 
ways. Take  the  climate,  for  example.  In 
the  yard  of  their  Beverly  Hills  house 
(which  I  share  with  Jeannie  and  her  hus- 
band, Bill,  associate  producer  of  the  series) , 
we  have  orange  and  tangerine  trees. 
Jeannie  thinks  it's  marvelous  because,  as 
you  know,  in  England  there  are  no  orange 
trees.  Just  the  other  day  she  was  writing  a 
letter  home  to  her  mother  in  Brighton  and 
she  said,  "Oh,  we  have  our  marmalade 
growing  right  in  our  own  backyard!" 

Both  of  us  like  to  think  of  those  two 
orange  trees  as  an  orchard.  In  England, 
where  the  world  seems  so  diminutive,  we 
think  anything  over  two  trees  is  an  orchard. 
And  the  front  of  the  house  is  a  veritable 
forest — hedges  and  trees  hide  the  house 
itself  from  the  road.  We  have  great  privacy. 
There  is  a  grand  driveway  and  the  large 
French  windows,  which  you  see  as  you 
approach,  give  the  house  an  air  of  elegance, 
I  think.  As  you  come  in  the  front  door, 
there  is  a  huge  sitting  room  on  the  right, 
with  a  grand  piano  in  one  corner  and 
enormous  overstuffed  chairs.  Then  the 
dining  room  is  further  along  toward  the 
kitchen  and  patio,  which  the  Redmonds 
use  for  barbecues  and  informal  entertain- 
ing. Jeannie  loves  this  out-of-doors  living 
and  has  filled  the  three  upstairs  bedroom 
closets  with  casual  clothes  and  all  the 
size-five  pedal  pushers  they  can  hold. 

Jeannie  is  thrilled  with  the  big  cars  and 
the  giant  highways  that  she  finds  in  South- 
ern California.  When  she  first  arrived, 
wide-eyed,  she  compared  them  to  the  two- 
way  lanes  in  England.  And  she  was  amazed 
at  the  size  of  the  cars.  When  a  big  sedan 
went  by  us  on  the  highway  (though  we 
were  sitting  in  one  ourselves)  she'd  ex- 
claim, "Why,  there  goes  a  regular  loco- 
motive!" 

The  only  real  day  for  relaxation  is  Sun- 
day, for  she  is  up  at  6:00  A.M.  weekdays 
in  order  to  be  in  the  studio  by  7:30  for 
make-up.  She  sometimes  works  until  the 
following  2:00  A.M.  filming  the  series.  Mr. 
Charlie  Isaacs,  her  producer  says,  "Jeannie 
is  a  great  gal  for  pitching  in  the  way  she 
does — there  aren't  many  Hollywood  stars 
who  are  willing  to  do  close-ups  at  two 
o'clock  in  the  morning."  And  silent  star 
Jack  Mulhall  said  about  her  late-hour 
brightness,  "Even  at  1:00  A.M.  Jeannie  is 
as  refreshing  as  a  breeze  from  the  English 
Channel." 

As  humorous  as  Jeannie  is,  she  is  also 
sentimental.  Take  her  wedding  ring,  for 
example.  It's  the  only  piece  of  jewelry  that 
she  wears,  though  you'll  never  see  it  on 
your  TV  screen.  When  she  works,  Jeannie 
takes  her  wedding  band  off  and  pins  it  to 
the  inside  of  her  blouse.  She'd  never  think 
of  putting  it  away  with  her  other  jewelry. 
Bill  has  often  told  me  that  when  he  and 
Jeannie  were  in  England,  she  used  to  make 
him  take  her  on  the  rounds  of  the  pet  shops. 
If  she  saw  any  puppies  or  small  dogs  who 
were  being  picked  on  or,  because  they 
were  small,  being  sat  on  by  the  larger 
dogs,  she'd  buy  them  and  take  them  home. 
Jeannie  literally  was  for  the  "underdog." 
Then  proceeded  a  program  of  brushing, 
grooming,  and  even  eye-dropper  feeding. 
Bill  reports  that  the  funniest  sight  he's  ever 
seen  took  place  one  day  when  he  came  in 
from  work  to  find  Jeannie  sitting  in  the 


middle  of  the  floor  brushing  a  puppy's 
teeth  with  toothpaste.  Finally,  after  put- 
ting the  poor  little  pups  back  on  their  feet, 
Jeannie  would  give  them  away  to  her 
friends  as  gifts  and  go  out  looking  for 
another  that  needed  her  attention. 

Speaking  of  Bill,  I'd  like  to  say  that  he 
and  Jeannie  have  a  wonderful  relationship 
—it's  more  than  love.  Both  have  such  a 
great  sense  of  humor,  one  keeps  the  other 
laughing.  And  they  don't  make  great  de- 
mands of  one  another — both  Jeannie  and 
Bill  work  awfully  hard,  he  as  her  manager 
and  associate  producer  on  the  show.  So, 
when  they  come  in  after  the  day's  work, 
they  are  happy  to  sit  down  to  a  home 
cooked  meal,  watch  TV,  take  in  an  in- 
frequent movie,  or  go  for  a  drive — in  short, 
they  enjoy  the  simple  pleasures. 

Though  Jeannie  is  tiny,  she  has  a  strong 
constitution;  but  there  are  times  when  the 
work  breaks  down  her  resistance  and  she 
comes  down  with  a  cold — that's  when  Bill 
is  especially  thoughtful  and  considerate. 
Jeannie  behaves  like  a  brave  little  doll, 
still  trying  to  smile  to  keep  Bill  laughing. 
And  he'll  insist  on  taking  dinner  to  her 
room,  saying  he  merely  wants  to  keep  her 
company,  but  it's  really  his  way  of  pro- 
tecting and  looking  after  her  so  that  she 
isn't  up  and  around  when  she  should  be 
resting. 

On  the  other  hand,  Bill  can  be  quite  the 
autocrat— since  he's  Jeannie's  manager, 
that  is  his  prerogative:  At  the  breakfast 
table,  for  example,  he  can  be  heard  saying, 
"I  wouldn't  eat  too  much  of  that  toast  and 
jam  if  I  were  you,  but  do  eat  all  the 
eggs  you  want."  .  .  .  Bill  is  definitely  a 
man  of  firm  conviction — before  he  and 
Jeannie  were  married,  he  wanted  to  see 
Australia.  He  had  just  enough  money  for 
a  one-way  passage,  and  without  a  cent  in 
his  pocket  or  any  prospect  of  a  job,  off  he 
went.  Within  hours  after  landing  he  had 
his  job— and  after  his  interest  in  Australia 
was  satisfied,  he  returned  home.  Today, 
after  twelve  years  in  vaudeville,  six  years 
in  the  RAF,  and  four  years  of  producing- 
directing-writing-cutting  his  own  feature 
pictures  (with  three  friends  in  England, 
under  the  banner,  "Tempeau  Productions") , 
Bill  has  devoted  his  future  to  Jeannie — 
wrote  and  directed  all  of  her  television 
shows  in  England,  and  now  is  associate 
producer  of  the  Hey,  Jeannie!  series. 

Jeannie's  main  ambition,  on  the  other 
hand,  is  to  have  six  children.  I  don't  know 
what  Bill's  attitude  on  this  is.  One  way  or 
another,  since  they  both  think  first  of  one 
another's  interests,  I  imagine  some  sort  of 
a  compromise  will  be  met  on  this  issue. 

Jeannie  is  very  thoughtful  of  others. 
Whenever  we  go  shopping  (as  we  still  do 
frequently)  and  she  sees  something  in  the 
window  that  she  likes,  she  will  think  of 
others  before  herself.  For  example,  her 
sister-in-law,  Jane,  looks  good  in  pearl 
costume  jewelry.  When  Jeannie  sees  some- 
thing unique  with  pearls,  she'll  exclaim, 
"Oh,  how  nice  that  will  be  for  Jane!"  And 
even  though  sending  tweed  suits  to  Eng- 
land is  like  shipping  coals  to  Newcastle, 
she  knows  her  mother  likes  tweeds.  When- 
ever she  sees  an  especially  smart  suit  in 
a  shop  window,  she'll  say,  "That  will  be 
perfect  for  Mother,"  and  pops  in  to  send 
it  off.  Or  Jeannie  and  I,  who  wear  the  same 
size  and  styles,  have  often  been  out  to- 
gether when  suddenly  she  spies  a  blouse 
that  will  look  good  on  either  of  us.  But 
she  thinks  of  me  before  herself,  saying, 
"Oh,  June  bug,  how  nice  that  will  look 
on  you." 

This  thoughtfulness  is  just  one  of  the 
many  nice  things  that  make  Jeannie  my 
best  friend.  I've  known  and  loved  her  gen- 
erosity and  sweetness  since  I  was  thirteen. 
Now  that  she  comes  into  your  living 
rooms  each  week,  I  know  that  you  will 
come  to  love  her,  too. 


Now— so  easy  to  be 
a  blonde  again! 

Actually  simpler  than  setting  your  hair! 


If  your  hair  was  born  to  be  blonde— 
and  isn't— or  if  you're  a  brownette 
with  blonde  ambitions,  Light  and 
Bright  by  Richard  Hudnut  is  for 
you.  It's  a  home  hair-lightener  de- 
signed to  bring  out  all  the  hidden 
gold  in  your  hair . . .  make  you  as 
blonde  as  you  were  born  to  be. 

Light  and  Bright  is  so  simple  and 
easy  to  use;  simpler,  in  fact,  than 
setting  your  hair.  No  messy  mixing. 
No  complicated  testing.  No  worri- 
some timing.  And  Light  and  Bright 
gives  you  genuine  "color  control"! 

Light  and  Bright  works  so  gently, 
so  gradually,  you  don't  have  to 
worry  about  getting  too  blonde  too 
fast.  Each  time  you  use  Light  and 
Bright  your  hair  gets  a  little  lighter, 


a  little  brighter.  When  you  reach 
just  the  color  that's  right,  you  stop. 

Light  and  Bright  contains  no  am- 
monia. It's  formulated  with  a  special 
built-in  conditioner.  Wonderful,  the 
way  Light  and  Bright  makes  you  a 
true,  natural-looking  blonde  again 
. . .  with  lovely  shining-soft  hair!  And 
once  this  gentle  home  brightener 
has  brought  to  light  your  real 
blondeness  that  mousey  look  is 
gone  for  keeps.  Your  new  golden 
look  won't  wash  out,  won't  fade. 
Guaranteed  by  Good  Housekeeping. 

Get  a  bottle  today— be  a  blonde 
beauty  tomorrow.  Only  $1.50  plus 
tax  for  Light  and  ^ggSo^B-^ 
Bright  at  cosmetic  fcSeepV} 
counters.  V2a«mT^2S^ 


Advertisement 


LEARN  WHILE  ASLEEP! 


PHENOMENAL   RESULTS!      *2  rushes 

fact-filled  Instruction  book.  "Sleep- 

Learning — Its  Theory,  Application  « 

Technique.  Guaranteed.   RESEARCH 

ASSOCIATION,  P.O.  BOX  610-V.  Omaha,  Nebr. 


KILL  THE  HAIR  ROOT 


/Destroy  unwonted  hoir  PERMANENTLY.  Use  con-i 
Fvenlently  at  home.  When  you  have  read  our  C 
|||l  instruction  book  carefully  and  learned  to  use  £ 
f  r/the  new  Mahler  Epilator  safely  and  efficiently,  , 
■slrhtn  you  can  remove  unwanted  hair  FOREVER. 
/MONEY-BACK  GUARANTEE  (Our  76th  Year* //^^etf  - 

.BEAUTY  ' 

Lforyou^ 


Send  y :  TODAY  for  booklet 


MAHLER'S.  INC 


PROVIDENCE  15.  R.  I. 


DO  YOU  HAVE  AN 

OLDER  RELATIVE 

WITHOUT  ENOUGH 

LIFE  INSURANCE? 

Even  though  an  older  member  of  your 
family  is  past  60,  it  is  still  possible  to 
apply  for  a  $1,000  life  insurance  policy- 
through  Old  American  of  Kansas  City, 
an  old  line  legal  reserve  company  spe- 
cializing in  insurance  for  older  people 
(up  to  80  years). 

You  handle  the  entire  transaction  by 
mail  with  OLD  AMERICAN  of  KAN- 
SAS CITY.  No  one  will  call  on  you. 

Write  today  for  free  information. 
Simply  mail  postcard  or  letter  (giving 
age)  to  Old  American  Ins.  Co.,  1  W.  9th, 
Dept.  L1270M,  Kansas  City,  Mo. 


Sew  Baby  Shoes 

I  at   home!    $40   weekly    possible, 
No  Canvassing. 
TINY-TOT    CO.,    Gallipolis    47.    Oh 


LOOSE  FALSE  TEETH 

RELINED  AND  TIGHTENED  AT  HOME  $1.00 


JUST 
BRUSH 
IT  ON> 


NEWLY  IMPROVED  0ENDEX  RELINER,  a  plastic, 
builds  up  (refits)  loose  upper  and  lower  dentures. 
Really  makes  them  fit  as  they  should  without  using 
powder.  Easily  applied.  No  heating  required.  Brush 
it  on  and  wear  your  plates  while  it  sets.  It  adheres 
to  the  plates  only  and  makes  a  comfortable,  smooth 
and  durable  surface  that  can  be  washed  and  scrub- 
bed Each  application  lasts  for  months.  Not  a 
powder  or  wax.  Contains  no  rubber  or  gum.  Neutral 
pink  color  Sold  on  MONEYBACK  GUARANTEE.  Not  sold  in  stores.  Proved 
by  15  years  of  Consumer  Use.  Send  $1.00  plus  10<  handling  charge 
(stamps  er  coin).        DENDEX  COMPANY,  DEPT.  77-C 

107*   WEST  SIXTH  ST.,  IOS  ANOflfS   S,  C»ltf. 


LORDS 
PRAYER 


GOLD  PIATEO 


A    beautiful    item    of    jewelry 

that    yeur    friend*     will    admire. 

lord'*     Prayer     artfully     engraved 

en  lovely  Gold  Pin  that  you  will  always  wear  with 

great  pride  ond  devotion. 


\  BibU 


YOU  GET   FREE  BIBLE 


With  every  order  You  Get  World't 
tiniest  BIBLE  234  pages, only  I  x  \V* 
in.  clearly  printed— you'll  carry  it 
wherever  you  go— it  will  amaxt 
your   friends.   ORDER   NOW  -  Only 

51  each  Pin  &  FREE  BIBLE  (tax  incl). 
Give  a  set  fo  a  loved  one  or  triend 
-they    will   bless   youl   3  sets   only 

52  75     MONEY-BACK   GUARANTEE* 


WORLD  WIDE,   1,    OSSINING.  New  York 


73 


CAN    I    H 


If  you  have  a  problem  you  can't  discuss  with  some- 
body close  to  you,  TV  Radio  Mirror  offers  the 
opportunity  to  "talk  things  over"  with  Joan  Davis  on 
these  pages.  Joan,  who  is  Mary  Jane  Higby  in  private 
life,  has  long  proved  a  wise  and  sympathetic  friend  to 
ABC  Radio  listeners  in  the  daily  course  of  When  A 
Girl  Marries,  and  she's  often  received  letters  asking  for 
advice  on  personal  problems.  We  hope  that  her  sug- 
gested solutions  to  the  problems  printed  here  may  be 
of  help  to  many  readers.  Letters  cannot  be  returned 
or  answered  personally  by  mail,  but  if  you  wish  to  write 
to  Joan,  your  letter  may  be  among  those  answered  each 
month.  Address  letters  to  Joan  Davis,  TV  Radio  Mir- 
ror, Box  1719,  Grand  Central  Station,  N.  Y.  17,  N.  Y. 


By  JOAN  DAVIS 
of  "When  A  Girl  Marries" 


Dear  Joan  Davis: 

Last  year  I  married  a  man  with  whom  I 
am  still  terribly  in  love,  though  there  is  so 
much  against  it  that  I  wonder  now  if  I 
haven't  made  a  big  mistake.  He  is  forty-two, 
and  has  many  responsibilities — a  mother 
whom  he  has  always  supported  and  who 
lives  with  us,  and  a  sixteen-year-old  son  from 
his  first  marriage — which  broke  up  because 
of  his  wife's  drinking.  Danny,  my  stepson, 
lives  with  his  mother,  but  spends  summers 
with  us,  since  we  can  afford  to  give  him  a 
real  vacation,  and  in  some  ways  my  husband 
is  more  attached  to  him  than  most  fathers  to 
their  sons.  I  understood  this  from  the  first, 
and  was  eager  to  share  Bill's  love  for  Danny, 
but  the  boy  plainly  hates  me.  Before  I  was 
married,  his  mother  came  to  see  me  and 
warned  me  that  I  could  never  destroy  Bill's 
love  for  his  son.  Danny  has  caught  her  hatred 
and  resentment,  and  I  feel  powerless  to  do 
much  about  it. 

There  is  also  my  husband's  mother,  a 
sweet  and  fine  person,  who  seems  unable  to 
forget  his  first  marriage.  She  keeps  telling 
me  about  it,  all  the  mistakes  they  made,  how 
much  better  off  Bill  is  with  me — but  natural- 
ly this  just  keeps  the  past  alive.  But  worst  of 
all  is  that  Bill  himself  is  becoming  very  de- 
pressed and  withdrawn.  He  is  not  happy  as 
he  was  when  we  first  began  planning  out- 
marriage. I  cannot  reach  him  and  I  am 
afraid.  Is  my  marriage  heading  for  failure? 

J.  L.  W. 

Dear  J.  L.  W.: 

Aren't  you  giving  up  before  you've  started? 
A  fear  of  disaster  is  one  of  the  surest  ways  I 
know  to  bring  it  on.  Try  to  concentrate  on 
those  days  before  your  marriage  when  Bill  was 
courting  you.  What  were  the  positive,  happy 
things  that  drew  you  together?  In  other  words, 
it  seems  plain  to  me  that  a  man  who  has 
weathered  such  a  bitter  experience  would  not 
marry  again  unless  he  were  not  only  deter- 
mined to  make  a  fresh,  happy  life  for  himself, 

T     hut  fairly  certain  he  had  found  the  woman  to 

*    help  him  do  it. 

You  are  not  supposed  to  be  patching  up  an 
old  house,  but  building  a  new  one.    Let  your 

mother-in-law   know,  tactfully  but   firmly,   that 

74 


as  far  as  you  are  concerned  the  past  is  past. 

If  your  stepson  continues  to  dislike  you, 
it  will  certainly  be  unpleasant — but  it  need 
not  be  tragic.  No  one  can  deny  the  difficulty 
of  your  position,  but  remember  that  the  boy 
has  his  own  severe  problem.  If  you  can  man- 
age to  treat  him  casually,  with  an  off-hand 
friendliness  that  makes  no  emotional  de- 
mands on  him,  you  may  eventually  win  an 
easier  relationship.  I  suspect  loyalty  to  his 
mother  would  make  it  impossible  for  him  to 
feel  any  affection  for  you.  It  is  one  area 
where  you  will,  I  think,  have  to  resign  your- 
self to  compromise — a  vital,  important  part 
of  your  husband's  life  that  you  can  share  only 
on  the  surface.  In  any  case,  a  boy  of  six- 
teen is  well  on  his  way  to  a  life  of  his  own. 
As  new  interests  absorb  him,  he  may  be 
willing  enough  to  slip  from  under  the  bur- 
den of  resentment  he  may  have  caught  from 
his  mother  and  into  the  easier,  undemanding 
friendship  you  can  offer  if  you  are  wise. 

But,  chiefly,  I  think  your  own  imagination 
and  energy  must  go  to  work  for  you.  Find 
some  way  of  getting  your  husband  to  think 
and  plan  for  your  marriage.  The  best  way, 
of  course,  would  be  a  family  of  your  own, 
but  this  may  or  may  not  be  in  your  vision  of 
the  future.  A  really  vital  new  hobby  or  in- 
terest might  do  it;  new  friends,  perhaps.  If 
there's  any  way  the  two  of  you  can  take  a 
holiday  together,  by  all  means  find  it!  Basi- 
cally, I  think  you  must  turn  your  face  from 
the  past  before  you  can  succeed  in  turning 
your  husband's.  It  was  the  future  he.  was 
thinking  of  when  he  fell  in  love  with  you. 
Don't  you  be  the  one  to  forget  it! 

Dear  Joan  Davis: 

I  have  a  sister  ten  years  younger.  When 
she  was  only  sixteen,  she  got  into  trouble 
with  a  married  man  who  left  town  right 
away.  I  blamed  myself  because  I  had  not 
given  too  much  attention  to  the  way  Marie 
was  going  on,  and  she  was  not  and  never  has 
been  really  a  bad  girl.  But  with  my  hus- 
band's help  and  understanding  we  worked  it 
out  at  the  time  so  nobody  knew,  going  away 
from  home  to  "visit."  When  we  came  back, 
the  little  girl  was  considered  ours,  my  hus- 
band's and  mine.  But  now  my  sister  has  just 


married  a  fine  young  man  and  everything  is 
falling  to  pieces.  She  is  terrified  of  losing  him 
and  has  pleaded  with  me  desperately  to  keep 
her  secret  forever,  and  truthfully  it  would 
break  my  heart  to  give  up  calling  six-year- 
old  Marian  my  own  and  give  her  away  to  her 
real  mother.  But  my  husband  feels  very 
strongly  that  the  child  should  be  with  her 
real  mother.  He  loves  Marian  as  much  as  I 
do,  and  it  seems  as  if  I  cannot  have  any  chil- 
dren of  my  own.  I  have  begged  and  pleaded 
but  he  seems  bent  on  telling  the  truth. 

Mrs.  O.  B. 

Dear  Mrs.  0.  B.: 

Your  husband  appears  to  be  a  man  with  a 
strong  belief  that  there  is  no  substitute  for 
truth,  and  I  have  a  profound  respect  for  this 
conviction.  You  describe  your  sister's  husband 
as  a  "fine  young  man" :  if  he  really  is  so,  it 
seems  unlikely  that  he  will  allow  a  mistake, 
made  so  long  ago,  to  wreck  this  promising 
marriage.  From  this  point  of  view,  I  feel  your 
sister's  desperation  is  somewhat  hysterical.  If 
you  can  calm  her  fears,  perhaps  you  can  make 
her  see  that  love,  faith  and  trust  must  be  more 
than  mere  words,  if  her  marriage  is  to  succeed. 

However,  your  sister  and  her  marriage  take 
.second  place  to  the  one  most  urgent  necessity 
— the  absolute  responsibility  of  everyone  con- 
cerned to  safeguard  the  child's  well-being.  And 
here  is  where  I  think  your  husband  is  being 
perhaps  too  rigid  in  his  conception  of  what  the 
truth  really  is.  When  you  and  your  sister  re- 
turned to  town  with  the  infant,  she  became 
yours — in  the  same  way  an  adopted  child  be- 
comes genuinely  the  child  of  its  adoptive  par- 
ents. A  child  is  not  a  parcel  to  be  shunted 
about,  and  I  am  sure  your  husband  cannot 
have  considered  this  aspect  of  the  situation 
too  carefully.  Apart  from  your  suffering  and 
his  own  if  you  were  to  give  her  up — what  of 
the  child's  bewilderment?  This,  in  addition  to 
the  fairly  obvious  fact  that  your  sister  does  not 
want  the  child  and  you  passionately  do,  makes 
your  home   so   much   more   desirable   for  her. 

However,  he  is  your  husband,  the  partner  in 
your  marriage,  and  in  point  of  law  the  child  is 
not  yours.  Without  your  husband's  full,  loving 
cooperation,  you  can  do  nothing  but  insist  that 
Marian  <ro  to  your  sister.  If  this  should  happen. 


you  must  remember  that,  no  matter  what  your 
heartache,  you  are  no  longer  Marian's  mother 
but  her  aunt.  Love,  understanding,  help — those 
you  can  give  in  any  measure.  But  if  you  try  to 
retain  the  child's  primary  loyalty  and  love — 
instead  of  consciously  taking  second  place — 
you  will  have  yourself  to  reproach  for  her  in- 
creased confusion  in  a  profoundly  upsetting 
situation. 

Dear  Joan  Davis: 

I  have  done  a  foolish  thing,  and  I  am  in 
two  minds  over  whether  my  husband  has  to 
know  about  it.  I  was  brought  up  to  believe 
that  there  can  be  no  love  where  there  is  not 
complete  honesty,  and  I  have  hardly  been 
able  to  sleep  lately,  worrying  over  what  to 
do.  The  only  job  I  ever  had  before  I  got 
married  was  in  an  office  working  with  a  very 
attractive  man,  a  bachelor,  who  used  to  talk 
to  me  about  his  troubles  with  women.  I  guess 
I  was  flattered  because  he  was  a  bit  older 
and  seemed  very  sophisticated,  and  I  was 
pleased  at  his  seeming  to  seek  my  advice. 
After  my  marriage,  he  called  up  one  day  and 
invited  me  out  to  lunch,  and  I  went  and  had 
a  very  good  time.  I  told  my  husband  about 
it,  and  the  whole  thing  passed  off  as  a  joke — 
I  don't  think  my  husband  gave  it  a  thought 
afterwards.  But  I  never  told  him  that  this 
man  phoned  me  several  times  afterward  and 
I  went  out  with  him — always  to  lunch,  in 
places  where  anyone  might  have  seen  us.  It 
was  all  perfectly  innocent  and  he  talked  to 
me  in  the  same  way — as  though  I  were  a  sis- 
ter or  a  very  old  friend.  But  then,  to  my 
astonishment,  the  last  time  I  saw  him,  he 
changed.  He  held  my  hand  and  said  all  kinds 
of  things  about  his  feelings  for  me,  and  I 
could  hardly  believe  my  ears  or  get  away 
fast  enough,  I  was  so  confused  and  mortified. 
Of  course  I  have  never  seen  him  since  then, 
nor  would  even  talk  to  him  on  the  phone. 
But  I  felt  like  such  a  complete  fool  because 
it  seemed  he  thought  all  along  I  understood 
why  he  was  taking  me  out.  The  thing  is, 
must  I  tell  my  husband?  It  is  terribly  on  my 
conscience,  and  yet  I  don't  know  just  why. 

P.  V. 

Dear  P.  V.: 

If  it's  on  your  conscience,  P.  V.,  why  not 
just  let  it  stay  there  for  a  while?  Put  it  down 
to  growing  pains  and  thank  your  lucky  stars 
•  that  you  were  able  to  remove  yourself  grace- 
fully from  a  situation  that  might  have  become 
unpleasant.  Why  bother  your  husband  with 
something  that  might  annoy  him  out  of  all  pro- 
portion to  its  real  importance?  There  is  really 
nothing  wrong  in  having  lunch  with  an  old 
acquaintance,  and  I  imagine  what  bothers  you 
is  not  a  fear  that  you  were  guilty  of  something 
wrong  but  the  humiliation  of  realizing  that 
your  understanding  of  human  nature  fell  a  bit 
short  of  perfect.  As  yjou  say,  you  feel  a  bit  fool- 
ish, but  don't  all  of  us  now  and  then — and  isn't 
this  healthy?  Someday  when  it's  far  in  the 
past,  you  can  tell  your  husband,  if  you  like, 
making  it  the  joke  that  it  really  is.  But  if  you 
don't  want  to,  just  file  it  away  in  the  "Lessons 
Learned"  department — and  forget  it. 


KEEP  YOUR  HAIR  LOVELY 

THE  HOLLYWOOD  WAY! 

•  •  •  • 

Do  as  4  out  of  5  top  Hollywood  Stars  do! 


cream 
ml  57K. 


lotion 

30«/60« 


5V2  oz. 

only 

$1.25 

plus 
tax 


use 

LUSTRE-CREME 
SHAMPOO 

Never  Dries  ...  it  Beautifies! 

Convenient  to  use  ...  in  Cream  or  lotion 
form.  Leaves  hair  soft,  shining  .  .  .  eager 
to  curl. 

New  Super-Soft 

LUSTRE-NET 

Sets  Hair  to  Stay  ...  the  Softest  Way 

Super-soft-for  casual  hoir  style.  Regular 
-for  curly  or  hard-to-manage  hair 

Get  Lustre-Creme  Shampoo  and  Lustre-Net  Hair  Spray  at 


BEN  FRANKLIN  STORES 


Party    Records 

FOR   ADULTS  ONLY 


ft 


THEY'RF  TERRIFIC!  Brand  new  series 
1  of  exclusive  records   Racy  ditties  and  gay 
parodies  about  those  spicy,  intimate  mo- 
ments   Really  shocking    but  so  much  fun 
foi  you  and  your  guests    Complete  set  of 
'EIGHT  DIFFERENT  SELECTIONS  on 
finest  quality  78  or  45  r.p.m  records  (state 
i  choice),  sent  prepaid  In  plain,  sealed  pack- 
lage  for  S4  96  (no  c  o.d.'s).  SPECIAL  OF- 
I  FER:  Two  Different  Sets  of  16  Recordings 
for  only  $8  95.  For  a  thrilling  adventure  in 
adult  entertainment,  order  yours  Today' 

NATIONAL.  Dept.56-F,  Box  5,  Sta.  E,  TOLEDO  9,  OHIO 


Hay  Right  Away! 

ANY    INSTRUMENT 

Now    it's    EASY    to    learn    ANY     INSTRUMENT— even     if 

?ou  don't  know  a  single  note  now.  No  boring  exercises. 
ou  play  delightful  pieces  BIGHT  AWAY— from  very  first 
lesson!  Properly— by  note.  Simple  as  A-B-C.  You  make 
amazing  progress — at  home,  in  spare  time, 
without  teacher.  Only  few  cents  per  lesson, 
900,000    STUDENTS! 

CDcr  Bf\f%1£  Shows  bow  easy  it  is  1 
r  ItLL  DUUFV  to  learn  music  this  mod- 
ern way.  Write  for  it.  No  obligation;  no 
salesman  will  call  upon  you.  U.  S.  School 
of  Music,  Studio  2012,  Port  Washington, 
N.   Y.    (58th   successful   year). 

You  Can  Depend  On 

STRONGER  Yet  SAFER 

F^r     to  relieve 


Won't  Upset  The  Stomach 

Anacin®  not  only  gives  stronger,  faster 
relief  from  pain  of  headache,  neuritis  and 
neuralgia  — but  is  also  safer.  Won't  upset 
the  stomach  and  has  no  bad  effects.  You 
see,  Anacin  is  like  a  doctor's  prescription. 
That  is,  Anacin  contains  not  just  one  but 
a  combination  of  medically  proven,  active 
ingredients.  Scientific  research  has 
proved  no  single  drug  can  give  such 
strong  yet  such  safe  relief  as  Anacin. 
Buy  Anacin  Tablets  today  I 


LEARN    AT    HOME 

Practical  nurses  are  needed  in  every 
community ...  doctors  rely  on  them... 
patients  appreciate  their  cheerful,  ex- 
pert   care.    You    can    learn    practical 
nursing  at  home  in  spare  time.  Course 
endorsed  by  physicians.  57th  yr.  Earn 
while  learning.   High  school   not  re- 
uuired     Men     women.    18   to   60.    Trial   plan.    Write   now! 
CHICAGO    SCHOOL    OF    NURSING 
Dept.  212.   25   East  Jackson   Blvd.,   Chicago  4,    III. 
Please  send  free  booklet  and  16  sample  lesson  pages. 

Yr;  me ■ 

City State Age 


Diamonds 
from  Estates 
Barks,  and 
Unredeemed 
pledges^- 

Our  Be/ecence      Vour  i 

Berman's  Diamond  Loan  Banh 

Dept.  7"G  — BERMAN  BLDG.,  BALTO.  1,MD. 


or 
ANNIVERSARY 


Se*toHe«t*t  SSSSSL 

"BRIDE, 
GROOM  & 
MINISTER" 

Salt  and 
Pepper  Set 

The  3  Pieces 
ALL  For  Only 

50< 

Bargain!  To  get 

new   customers. 

A    personal 

memento. 

Richly  glazed,  colorful,  quality  ceramic.  The  Bride  ^J™ 
traditional  white,  holding  a  beautiful  red  bouquet.  The 
Groom  wears  gleaming  black  full  dress  and  the  Minister 
is  dressed  in  a  ceremonial  robe.  Groom  pours  salt  Bride 
pours  pepper.  You'll  cherish  this  adorable  imported  Set 
tor  years.   Ifs  so  decorative  on  table,   mantel,   etc. 

SATISFACTION  GUARANTEED  OR  MONEY  BACK 
Available  plain  (without  names  and  date)  for  only  aw. 
However;  for  only  20c  extra,  we'll  artistically  hand-letter 
any  first  names  of  couple  and  date  of  event.  Each  set  can 
be  personalized  differently  if  you  desire,  so  that  you  can 
Sivethem  awly  as  gifts.  Not  more  than  2  sets  to  a 
customer  at  this  low  price.  Add  only  15c  to  each  set 
orfered    for    pCstage    and    handling      No    COD.  s    please 

DOBBS  PRODUCTS   CO.     ***3il**2*:to£t."m 


Chicago     S,    'Illinois 


75 


To  Susan  With  Love 


(Continued  from  page  43) 
standing  between  Virginia  and  her  own 
daughter,  Susan,  fourteen  years  old  this 
November  13.  "Although  I  could  not  help 
but  be  fond  of  Jada  for  her  own  sake," 
Virginia  explains,  "I  doubt  that  I  could 
have  such  a  completely  natural,  easy  re- 
lationship with  a  girl  of  her  age  if  it  were 
not  for  my  own  daughter.  Through  Susan, 
I  understand  all  young  girls  better.  Jada 
and  I  have  serious  discussions,  we  play, 
we  laugh  together  at  our  own  little  pri- 
vate jokes.  All  of  this  has  been  helped 
along  by  my  Susan,  in  spite  of  the  fact 
that  the  two  girls  know  each  other  only 
slightly,  because  we  moved  from  New 
York  to  a  small  town  in  Connecticut  a 
few  years  ago,  and  Susan  comes  to  the  city 
and  the  studio  very  seldom." 

Virginia  is  a  chic,  auburn-haired,  brown- 
eyed  woman,  a  slender  five  feet  four 
and  a  half  inches  of  determination 
and  ambition  for  her  child's  happiness, 
yet  with  a  femininity  and  softness  that 
belie  her  realistic  and  uncompromising 
approach  to  living,  to  the  responsibilities 
of  a  job  and  of  a  teen-age  daughter.  Susan, 
very  pretty  and  now  almost  as  tall  as  her 
mother,  has  light  brown  hair  and  blue 
eyes.  "Lovely,  wistful  eyes,"  her  mother 
says. 

Because  of  Susan,  and  the  life  Virginia 
has  wanted  her  little  girl  to  have,  Virginia 
puts  in  a  much  longer  working  day  than 
she  would  otherwise.  She  commutes  well 
over  an  hour  by  train  to  New  York  for 
morning  rehearsals  and  returns  home 
after  the  late  afternoon  broadcast  to  have 
dinner  and  spend  the  evening  with  her 
child.  But  it's  more  than  worthwhile  to 
Virginia,  who  says,  "After  spending  the 
first  twelve  years  of  her  life  in  the  heart 
of  New  York,  I  wanted  Susan  to  have  the 
things   a   smaller   town   can   give   a   child. 

"A  working  mother  in  a  big  city  has  to 
put  her  child  under  the  constant  super- 
vision of  someone  else,  even  during  her 
playtime.  I  was  worried  that  Susan 
wasn't  having  enough  freedom  to  grow. 
Now  she  is  still  under  the  supervision  of 
our  fine  housekeeper,  Helen,  when  I'm 
away.  But  she  can  go  off  on  her  bike, 
stop  at  the  library,  join  the  other  children 
at  the  soda  shop  or  in  somebody's  yard, 
go    to    the    movies    with    the    other    girls. 


She  leads  the  kind  of  partially  independ- 
ent life  a  teenager  requires,  without  be- 
ing constantly  watched  and  worried  over. 
Her  father  and  I  have  both  wanted  this 
kind  of  life  for  her." 

Their  house  is  pleasantly  compact,  with 
a  nice  yard  of  its  own,  on  a  little  street 
where  there  are  only  a  few  other  houses. 
Susan's  room  has  twin  beds,  one  always 
in  readiness  for  any  special  girlfriend 
who  wants  to  stay  overnight.  This  is  her 
private  retreat,  strewn  with  the  things 
that  interest  her  at  the  moment,  the  stacks 
of  favorite  records,  homework  notes,  piles 
of  library  books.  The  record  player — "the 
most  useful  present  she  ever  got,"  accord- 
ing to  Susan's  mother — plays  mostly  rock 
'n'  roll  these  days,  long  and  loud,  but 
there's  a  good  collection  of  jazz  and  all  the 
other  pop  stuff,  due  to  the  fact  that  both 
her  father  and  her  mother  have  always 
liked  and  collected  it. 

If  her  mother's  career  as  an  actress, 
star  of  an  important  television  drama, 
means  anything  to  Susan  at  this  point,  it 
is  kept  in  the  background.  Right  now  she 
is  just  "Mother,"  who  tries  to  be  "handy" 
and  go  places  with  Susan  on  weekends, 
and  who  is  just  as  willing  to  remain  dis- 
cretely in  the  background  if  plans  don't 
include  her.  "Be  there,  but  don't  be  in 
the  way,"  Virginia  sums  up  her  role. 

"From  Friday  afternoon  until  Monday 
morning,  we're  together  whenever  Susan's 
social  schedule  permits.  It's  certainly 
much  more  crowded  than  mine.  Besides 
her  school  work,  her  choral  group,  the 
work  with  the  junior  branch  of  the  Ground 
Observer  Corps,  the  dates  and  the  parties, 
she  has  friends  she  simply  must  see  every 
day  to  talk  over  all  the  things  that  have 
been  happening.  It's  all  she  can  do  at 
times  to  fit  me  in  at  all! 

"Helen  is  away  over  the  weekends,  so 
Susan  and  I  do  a  minimum  of  work  in  the 
house,  but  whatever  must  be  done  we  do 
together.  Like  all  teenagers,  housework 
and  cooking,  as  such,  aren't  particularly 
interesting  to  Susan,  except  when  it's  a 
special  project,  like  baking  for  a  church 
cake  sale  or  whipping  up  a  batch  of  fudge 
for  junior  Observers  to  munch  on  happily 
as  they  scan  the  heavens  for  enemy  air- 
craft. Yet  Susan  may  get  up  early  to 
clear  away  the  dishes  we  had  to  leave 
the   night   before,    and    have    the    kitchen 


$1,000.00  REWARD 


76 


...  is  offered  for  information  leading 
to  the  arrest  of  dangerous  "wanted" 
criminals.  Hear  details  about  the 
$  1 ,000.00  reward  on  .  .  . 

TRUE  DETECTIVE  MYSTERIES 

Every   Monday   Evening   on    MUTUAL   Stations 


Three  times  wed — once  dead.  Don't  miss  "The  Lovelorn  Blonde 
and  the  Tattooed  Strangler"  in  December  TRUE  DETECTIVE 
Magazine,  now  at  newsstands. 


spic  and  span  before  she  hurries  off  to 
church  Sunday  morning,  without  even 
being  asked  to  do  this.  I  find  that  teen- 
agers have  this  delightfully  unexpected 
way  of  ducking  things  you  want  them  to 
do — and  then  surprising  you  by  being 
thoughtful  and  kind  about  some  disagree- 
able task — and  Susan  runs  true  to  form." 

Actually,  as  Virginia  Dwyer  sees  it, 
these  are  the  best  years  of  all  for  build- 
ing a  happy  and  healthy  mother-daughter 
relationship.  "Mothers  have  to  try  to 
remember  their  own  adolescent  years,  and 
how  they  felt.  They  have  to  remember 
their  own  insecurities,  and  the  need  for 
encouragement  and  understanding,  al- 
though the  adolescent  of  today  seems  to 
me  to  be  far  more  mature  than  we  were. 
I  have  always  felt  sad  that  Susan  has  no 
brother  or  sister.  I  had  both.  Our  house 
was  filled  with  boys  most  of  the  time,  yet 
I  can't  remember  having  half  the  ease 
and  directness  with  them  that  Susan  and 
her  friends  have  now. 

"I  had  forgotten,  too,  what  close  and 
confidential  companionships  there  are  be- 
tween girls  of  that  age,  the  long  discus- 
sions of  problems,  the  sense  of  sympathy 
between  them.  Susan  and  her  friends 
made  me  remember  an  incident  of  my 
own  early  teens,  the  boy  on  whom  I  had 
a  tremendous  crush — who,  alas,  had  a 
tremendous  crush  on  my  best  girlfriend. 
How  she  actually  wept  with  sympathy  for 
me,  because  he  liked  her  better. 

When  we  found  it  necessary  to  retreat 
into  our  own  private  world,  we  wrote  our 
innermost  secrets  in  our  diaries.  My 
mother  has  given  Susan  the  diary  I  kept 
at  thirteen,  and  it  made  me  a  little  self- 
conscious  at  first,"  Virginia  smiles.  "But, 
reading  it  now,  I  can  laugh  at  some  of  the 
entries.  There  are  pages  that  express  dis- 
satisfaction with  my  whole  family!  My 
brother  refused  to  take  me  along  with 
him.  My  sister  and  I  had  quarreled  over 
some  possession.  My  father  was  too  busy 
to  talk  to  me  this  morning.  Then  the  last 
paragraph  would  have  a  change  of  mood, 
a  hint  of  all  the  interesting  things  that 
were  happening. 

"I  remind  my  friends,  parents  of  teen- 
agers, how  natural  to  'adolescence  are 
these  moments  of  hostility  and  bitter- 
ness— but  how  quickly  forgotten,  if  we 
don't  make  too  much  of  them  at  the  time. 
And  I  remind  myself,  too,  when  my  own 
Susan  seems  supersensitive  and  upset.  I 
suppose  that  this  is  the  one  thing  that 
throws  most  mothers,  however,  as  it  very 
nearly  did  me  once  when  Susan  was  a 
little  younger.  I  lost  my  temper  one 
morning  over  something  she  did,  and 
then  she  got  upset  and  angry.  She  got 
on  her  bike  and  rode  away,  with  hardly 
a  goodby.  I  was  so  worried  about  her 
going  off  in  that  mood.  In  fifteen  minutes 
she  was  back,  calm  as  could  be,  saying, 
'Mom,  did  you  see  where  I  put  that  book 
I  got  from  the  library  yesterday?'  There 
I  was,  still  shaken  and  upset,  but  my 
daughter  was  reacting  in  a  perfectly  nor- 
mal way.  We  had  talked  it  out  and  she 
had  shown  her  displeasure  at  my  decision, 
and  then  she  had  gone  off  by  herself, 
worked  off  her  own  feelings  of  resentment, 
and  came  back  without  rancor,  expecting 
none  on  my  part. 

"If  I  had  not  known  it  before,"  Vir- 
ginia says,  "I  discovered  that  day  how 
important  it  is  to  remember  that  your 
child  doesn't  love  you  one  iota  less,  even 
when  she  seems  most  rebellious,  and  that 
you  must  show  her  you  don't  love  her 
any  less,  no  matter  what  words  pass  be- 
tween you.  It  seems  perfectly  natural 
for  parents  to  be  hurt  by  a  child's  seem- 


ing  rebellion  and  rejection,  but  we  adults 
have  to  remind  ourselves  that  the  time 
comes  when  the  child  needs  to  be  an 
independent  person.  This  is  part  of 
achieving  that  independence.  We  know 
the  urge  towards  freedom  and  maturity 
must  be  kept  within  safe  bounds,  for  the 
child's  own  protection,  but  the  child 
doesn't  realize  that — yet.  Just  to  know 
that  our  influence  is  being  felt,  that  they 
like  some  of  the  people  we  admire,  too, 
is  encouragement  for  us. 

"When  Susan  stands  up  for  some  of  the 
issues  and  ideas  I  believe  in,  and  have 
taught  her  to  believe  in,  I  know  I  have 
made  more  of  an  impression  than  I  real- 
ized. I  have  no  wish  to  make  my  daugh- 
ter a  replica  of  myself,  but  I  could  no 
more  help  influencing  her  in  the  ways  I 
feel  are  right  than  any  other  parent  who 
loves  a  child. 

"When  she  first  began  to  retreat  into 
her  own  private  world,  into  the  world  of 
confidences  with  her  friends,  and  into  the 
world  of  her  own  thoughts,"  Virginia  re- 
calls, "I  sometimes  felt  that  I  had  lost 
her,  as  many  mothers  have  felt  before  me. 
Then  I  realized  that  this  is  not  loss,  but 
the  beginning  of  learning  to  surrender 
the  child,  of  being  mature  enough  our- 
selves to  free  the  child.  Actually,  Susan's 
companionship  at  this  age-level  is  more 
interesting  and  exciting  than  ever  before." 

Susan  is  still  a  gregarious  girl,  not  for 
one  moment  giving  up  what  her  mother 
teasingly  calls  her  "Elsa  Maxwell-Perle 
Mesta  party-giving  role."  She  loves  to 
arrange  parties  and  outings.  She  plans 
things  that  will  not  only  be  fun  for  her, 
but  for  her  friends,  and  Virginia  approves 
of  this.  However,  Virginia  adds,  "Although 
I  know  some  of  the  youngsters  begin  to 
'go  steady'  at  Susan's  age,  I  have  discour- 
aged this  completely.  She  must  wait  a 
few  years,  and  she  understands  my  point 
of  view.  We  encourage  the  children  to 
go  out  in  groups,  and  that's  really  what 
Susan  likes.  But  I  admit  that  sometimes 
we  mothers  are  rather  helpless  in  the 
face  of  that  phrase,  'But  all  the  other 
kids'  mothers  let  them  do  it.'  " 

lhe  questions  of  allowances,  of  clothes 
and  make-up  have  all  come  up.  About 
allowances,  Virginia  says:  "Susan  has  dif- 
ficulty keeping  within  her  budget,  but  she 
is  learning  judgment  in  spending,  so  we 
feel  we  are  making  progress."  About 
make-up:  "Every  once  in  a  while,  lip- 
stick goes  on  enough  to  show!"  About 
shopping  for  clothes:  "This  comes  under 
the  heading  of  fun,  mostly,  especially  when 
lunch  out  is  included.  There  is  always 
something  needed,  new  shoes,  a  blouse,  a 
skirt.  Susan  and  I  have  no  real  conflict 
here,  although  I  realize  that  in  some  fam- 
ilies this  is  the  source  of  bitter  feelings. 
The  child  wants  the  mother  to  like  what 
she  buys,  the  mother  doesn't  want  to  im- 
pose her  judgment  too  strongly,  but  they 
are  worlds  apart  in  what  they  think  is 
correct.  Susan  and  I  are  not.  Sometimes 
she  is  attracted  to  clothes  I  think  are  un- 
suitable. I  pick  something  that  doesn't 
appeal  to  her.  Eventually  we  find  per- 
haps the  one  thing  she  loves  and  I  at 
least  like,  and  we  both  leave  the  store 
happy.  Sometimes  there  is  compromise, 
often  complete  accord. 

"I  object  to  her  wearing  heels  that  are 
too  high,  feeling  high  heels  should  be  re- 
served for  special  occasions.  But  she  has 
to  learn  the  fitness  of  things  and  make  a 
few  of  her  own  mistakes.  There  can't  be 
a  full  set  of  rules  and  regulations  for 
everything.  It's  the  same  about  her  hair. 
I  let  her  come  into  New  York  to  have  her 
hair  done,  early  in  the  summer,  and  found 
her  dressing  for  a  party  later,  wearing  a 
very  short  haircut  and  really  bewitching 
bangs.  'Oh,  is  that  the  way  Pierre  de- 
cided  to   do   your  hair?'   I   commented.   T 


like  it.'  Susan  smiled  at  my  ignorance. 
'It  was  all  limp  by  the  time  I  got  on  the 
train  to  come  home,  so  I  just  took  the  nail 
scissors  when  I  got  here  and  cut  it  all 
off,'  she  said  sweetly." 

Acting  as  chauffeur  for  a  teenager  too 
young  for  a  license  is  all  to  the  good,  as 
far  as  Virginia  Dwyer  is  concerned.  "It 
keeps  me  close  to  the  kids,  and  I  enjoy 
it.  Sometimes  I'm  merely  the  chauffeur, 
sometimes  I'm  allowed  to  participate  a 
little — within  bounds,  of  course.  We  went 
— six  of  Susan's  friends  and  I — to  an 
amusement  park,  and  I  was  afraid  I 
wasn't  being  a  good  sport  by  keeping  off 
the  rides.  I  soon  found  out,  however,  that 
I  belonged  in  a  separate  section.  The 
thrills  and  chills  of  the  swooping  curves 
and  daring  dives  formed  a  magic  circle 
that  only  teenagers  could  appreciate  en 
masse,  and  I  was  supposed  to  take  mine 
more  sedately." 

t  or  Virginia's  own  social  life,  there  is 
dinner  in  New  York  and  an  evening  at 
the  theater,  or  a  visit  with  friends  in  the 
city,  about  once  a  week.  She  also  does 
some  visiting  and  partying  in  the  home 
community  on  weekends,  if  it  doesn't  in- 
terfere with  Susan's  plans.  Many  tele- 
vision and  radio  performers  live  in  the 
same  or  near-by  towns  .  .  .  hard-working 
people  who,  like  Virginia,  have  to  study 
their  scripts  most  week-nights  and  are 
glad  to  have  weekends  to  spend  with  their 
families.  The  Don  MacLaughlins  (he's 
in  As  The  World  Turns)  are  fairly  near 
neighbors,  for  instance.  "It's  strictly  the 
kind  of  social  life  that  depends  on  what 
the  children  do.  If  they  are  taken  care 
of  for  a  while,  you  call  up  and  see  if  your 
friends  are  at  home,  or  they  come  to  your 
house.  Maybe  once  a  month  there's  a 
planned  party  of  some  kind,  but  mostly 
it's    completely    casual." 

Virginia  has  been  an  actress  ever  since 
she  left  college,  although  at  one  time  she 
hoped  to  follow  in  the  footsteps  of  her 
doctor  father,  or  to  become  a  child  psy- 
chologist. And  she  is  happy  that,  at  this 
point,  Susan  shows  an  interest  in  science 
and  psychology.  Virginia  herself  is  per- 
fectly happy  playing  Jane  Edwards  on 
The  Secret  Storm.  "Jane  has  a  kind  of 
warmth  and  charm  that  combine  to  make 
her  a  very  exciting  character,  and  still  a 
woman  with  great  maternal  feeling.  I 
find  her  easy  to  play,  easy  to  identify 
myself  with." 

Returning  to  her  daughter,  Virginia  re- 
members that  "As  a  child  about  Susan's 
age,  I  used  to  sneak  out  of  my  room  and 
lean  over  the  banister  to  watch  my  par- 
ents' parties.  It  was  a  more  formal  day 
than  the  present,  and  I  loved  to  see  the 
women  and  men  in  evening  clothes.  I  was 
always  fearful  that  this  was  a  world  which 
would  vanish  and  be  gone  forever  by  the 
time  I  grew  up.  In  a  way  it  was.  In  a 
way  it  did.  .  .  .  Now,  I  am  once  more  lean- 
ing over  the  banister,  to  watch  the  chil- 
dren jitterbugging  in  the  living  room 
below.  Of  course,  they  are  very  polite 
to  me,  but  it's  not  my  party,  any  more 
than  my  parents'  party  could  be  mine.  I 
must  have  my  own,  I  must  seek  my  own 
level.  Very  soon,  I  must  create  my  own 
life,  and  let  my  daughter  create  hers. 

"For  the  moment,  this  is  a  time  of  con- 
tradictions for  her,  of  well-turned  phrases 
followed  by  terribly  slangy  speech;  of 
almost  adult  perception  and  understand- 
ing at  times,  and  casual  indifference  at 
others;  of  quick  sympathies  and  great 
affection  for  me,  and  quick  storms  of  re- 
sentment. But  always  there  is  love  be- 
tween us,  underlying  everything. 

"I  think  it  is  the  best  of  all  possible 
times  in  our  fourteen  years  together," 
Virginia  says  happily.  "And  it  gets  better 
all  the  time!  These  teen-age  years  are 
just  wonderful." 


I  Trapped  My  Man! 

My  sparkling  smile  won  my  wonderful  man. 
I  was  ashamed  to  smile  until  a  dentist  told 
me  how  I  could  have  a  brilliant,  captivating 
smile  with  the  regular  use  of  Iodent  No.  2. 

I  was  amazed  when  ugly  Smoke  Smudge 
and  Surface  Stains  disappeared  after  the 
first  few  brushings.  Take  a  tip  from  a  gal 
who  knows  .  .  .  get  a  tube  of  Iodent  No.  2 
today  and  you  too  can 
enjoy  the  glamour  of  a 
Hollywood  smile. 


MADE 

BY  A 

DENTIST 


AMAZING    NEW    FORMULA    FOR 

PSORIASIS 

Scales  Must  Disappear  •  • .  Spots  Lighten  •  • . 

f%m%  iiA  AA1%Y  No  matter  how  long  you've  suf- 
II  K     Nil  |1\  I        fered,   or  how  aggravated  your  case 

wii  11  w  wwwi  may  be — try  this  newest,  guaran- 
teed medical  discovery  for  ugly,  embarrassing  scaly  skin. 
Case  after  case  reports  faster  relief.  MERISAN  tends  to 
remove  scaly  crusts  on  outer  skin  layer,  helping  natural 
healing  of  spots.  Non-greasy,  non-toxic.  Will  not  stain 
clothes  or  bedding.  Thrill  to  the  joy  of  a  clear  skin.  NO 
COST  TO  YOU.  Simply  send  name  and  address  for  com- 
plete information  on  how  you  may  try  MERISAN  for  two 
full  weeks  on  positive  guarantee  of  satisfaction  or  money 
back.  Sent  FREE  and  postpaid  in  plain  envelope.  Write  today. 

MERISAN  CO.,  Box  1 S08,  Dept.  1 54,  Birmingham,  Ala. 


Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 
New  Way  Without  Surgery 

Science  Finds  Healing  Substance  That 
Relieves  Pain— Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 

For  the  first  time  science  has  found  a 
new  healing  substance  with  the  astonishing 
ability  to  shrink  hemorrhoids  and  to  relieve 
pain  —  without  surgery. 

In  case  after  case,  while  gently  relieving 
pain,  actual  reduction  (shrinkage)  took 
place. 

Most  amazing  of  all  —  results  were  so 
thorough  that  sufferers  made  astonishing 
statements  like  "Piles  have  ceased  to  be  a 
problem!" 

The  secret  is  a  new  healing  substance 
(Bio-Dyne*)  — discovery  of  a  world-famous 
research  institute. 

This  substance  is  now  available  in  sup- 
pository or  ointment  form  under  the  name 
Preparation  H*  Ask  for  it  at  all  drug  count- 
ers—money back  guarantee.     *Beg.  U.  S.  Pat.  Off . 


77 


Back  Home  Again  in  Indiana 


78 


(Continued  from  page  27) 
Robert  M.  Lewis,  sharing  a  rich,  creative 
life  with  the  man  she  loved.  During  the 
past  months,  she'd  had  the  rewarding  ex- 
perience of  being  that  other  girl — Roberta 
Wilcox — on  TV.  Through  all  this,  she  had 
grown  and  developed.  But  it  had  all  begun 
in  her  home  town,  with  the  help  of  those 
wonderful  home-town  people. 

People  like  Clarence  Elbert.  Betty  had 
been  about  thirteen  when  she  joined  the 
choir  of  the  Trinity  Evangelical  Lutheran 
Church  in  downtown  Indianapolis.  Clar- 
ence Elbert  directed  the  choir,  one  of  the 
city's  finest  church  groups,  and  he  also 
headed  Indianapolis's  famous  male  chorus, 
the  Maennerchor.  How  well  Betty  remem- 
bered the  hours  of  rehearsal  in  the  old 
church,  the  Sunday  mornings  when  she 
stood  up  with  the  others  to  join  in  the 
beautiful  music,  the  times  when  her  voice 
was  proudly  raised  alone.  .  .  .  Then  one  of 
the  most  exciting  events  of  her  life:  Her 
"professional"  debut  as  guest  soloist  with 
the  Maennerchor.  With  Clarence  Elbert 
conducting,  the  fifteen-year-old  girl  had 
stood  up — to  sing  Shubert's  "Omnipotence." 

And  all  the  other  people  who  had 
wanted  to  help.  .  .  .  Mrs.  Solomon,  who 
had  lived  next  door  when  Betty  June  was 
an  eight-year-old  with  flying  blond  pig- 
tails and  a  passion  for  riding  her  bicycle— 
and  lifting  her  voice  in  an  outburst  of 
song,  as  she  rode  up  and  down  the  drive- 
way which  separated  the  two  houses. 
"Where  does  such  a  little  girl  get  such  a 
big  voice?"  Mrs.  Solomon  would  call  out 
to  her  from  the  kitchen  window  .  .  .  and 
one  day  she  had  spoken  to  Betty's  mother, 
who  worked  during  the  day  and  had  not 
often  heard  these  impromptu  concerts: 
"Mrs.  Oakes,  I  really  must  tell  you  some- 
thing. You  should  listen  to  Betty  June 
when  she  sings.  Your  daughter  has  an 
unusual  voice."  Betty's  mother  had  lis- 
tened, and  had  realized  that  her  child  had 
a  voice  which  deserved  training. 

oo  many  good  people.  .  .  .  Mrs.  Dema 
Lewis,  with  her  booming  Texas  voice,  who 
had  known  Betty  since  she  was  two  and 
had  been  there  every  single  time  she  sang 
— who  had  two  children  of  her  own,  and 
treated  Betty  as  the  third  .  .  .  Mrs.  Howard 
Clippinger,  who  directed  the  Shortridge 
High  School  Glee  Club — and  would  never 
forget  Betty  June  Oakes  singing  the  Lord's 
Prayer  before  a  hushed  assemblage  of 
2,000  students  in  her  high-school  farewell 
.  .  .  Mrs.  Nell  Merrick  Thomas,  who  had 
originated  the  big  annual  "Junior  Vaude- 
ville" at  Shortridge — and  would  always 
remember  Betty  as  one  of  the  most 
talented  of  the  many  students  who  ap- 
peared in  her  productions  .  .  .  Mrs.  Henri- 
ette  Kothe  Matkin,  whose  daughter  was 
Betty's  classmate,  and  who  had  taken  her 
to  symphony  concerts. 

Yes,  her  home  town  meant  people  like 
Jane  Hampson,  who  had  been  her  voice 
teacher  and  would  always  be  her  friend 
.  .  .  like  Jack  Hatfield,  who  had  picked 
her  out  when  she  was  fourteen  to  take  a 
leading  role  in  the  play  he  was  directing 
for  the  Civic  Theater  that  year.  This  sum- 
mer, he  directed  her  again,  at  the  new 
Theatron. 

Her  home  town  also  meant  her  child- 
hood friends,  the  boys  and  girls  she  had 
gone  to  school  with,  had  fun  with,  grown 
up  with,  shared  her  dreams  with  .  .  .  like 
Rosemary  Walker  and  Jeanny  Trulock 
and  Ann  Rutledge,  Barney  Landman  and 
Tommy  Wadelton.  She  and  Rosemary  and 
Jeanny  had  been  members  of  a  very  spe- 
cial social  club  in  high  school.  It  was 
called  W.I.T.C.H.,  which  was  supposed  to 
be  very  wicked,  and  no  member  was  ever 


to  tell  what  those  five  initials  stood  for. 

And  Barney  Landman.  He  was  the  boy 
next  door,  and  he  had  taken  her  to  her 
first  formal.  He  had  walked  her  to  school 
and  been  her  protector.  Once  he'd  had  his 
two  front  teeth  knocked  out  in  a  fight 
over  her.  .  .  .  Then,  even  before  that, 
Tommy  Wadelton,  a  very  special  first  boy- 
friend. She  had  seen  him  every  day  of  her 
life  that  year  she  was  fourteen.  Talented 
Tommy,  a  gifted  writer  and  now  a  brilliant 
photographer.  They  had  stopped  "going 
steady,"  but  they  never  stopped  pulling 
for  each  other  as  the  years  went  by. 

It  had  been  a  wonderful  time.  There 
had  been  friends  and  fun,  and  there  had 
been  the  singing  and  the  studying.  Al- 
ways the  studying.  Always  the  golden 
voice  and  the  dream  of  glory.  When  high 
school  was  finished,  Betty  really  began  to 
concentrate  on  her  voice.  Instead  of  going 
on  to  college,  she  became  a  student  at  the 
Raisa-Rimini  School  of  Opera  in  Chicago. 

She  only  came  home  on  weekends,  and 
then  she  would  be  with  Jane  Hampson 
most  of  the  time,  going  over  scores.  She 
was  nineteen  years  old  and  she  knew  what 
she  wanted.  .  .  .  Then  something  happened. 
At  first,  it  didn't  seem  so  important — a 
chance  meeting,  a  suggestion,  some  advice 
to  think  about.  Betty  June  met  a  man 
named  Robert  M.  Lewis,  who  was  and  is 
a  vocal  coach  of  considerable  standing.  .  .  . 
"Looking  back  now,"  says  Betty,  "it  all 
seems  pretty  romantic.  But,  right  then  and 
there,  my  mind  wasn't  on  romance." 

©he  was  home  from  Chicago  that  week- 
end. It  was  during  the  summer  and  the 
Starlight  Musical  company,  similar  to  the 
one  she  was  with  last  summer,  was  put- 
ting on  "Naughty  Marietta."  During  the 
intermission,  she  noticed  Jane  Hampson 
who  called  her  over  to  meet  Robert 
Lewis,  who  was  in  Indianapolis  to  coach 
Edith  Fellows,  the  operetta's  star. 

Mr.  Lewis  was  the  soul  of  courtesy.  "I 
would  like  very  much  to  hear  you  sing," 
he  told  Betty,  "if  there  is  time  .  .  ." 

Betty  was  prompt  with  her  reply:  "I 
think  tomorrow  would  be  just  fine." 

The  next  day,  Betty  and  her  mother 
were  at  the  Marott  Hotel,  where  Robert 
Lewis  was  staying.  He  looked  with  amaze- 
ment at  the  music  she  had  brought. 

"You  are  going  to  sing  'Tosca'?" 

"I  know  the  whole  score,"  she  answered. 

When  she  was  finished,  there  was  a  mo- 
ment's silence,  and  then  Robert  spoke 
very  softly:  "You  know,  I  am  only  one 
musician,  and  you  mustn't  go  by  what  I 
say  alone.  You  have  a  very  lovely  voice, 
but  it's  a  young  voice  and  'Tosca'  calls 
for  a  mature  woman.  Tell  me,  why  haven't 
you  thought  of  doing  musical  comedy?  I 
think  you  would  be  perfect  for  it." 

If  she  took  his  advice,  he  said,  she 
would  come  to  New  York  and  try  her 
luck.  Two  months  later,  Betty  and  her 
mother  were  packing  and  there  was  a 
letter  on  its  way  to  Robert  M.  Lewis  in 
New  York,  saying  "We're  coming."  It  had 
been  a  hard  decision  to  reach.  After  the 
years  of  concentrating  on  the  goal  of 
grand  opera,  could  she  turn  away  from  it 
suddenly  now,  before  she  had  even  tried? 
And  because  of  one  man's  opinion? 

And  yet,  in  spite  of  that,  she  really  had 
very  few  doubts.  "There  was  one  little 
thing  he  said,"  she  recalls.  "He  said,  'Why 
do  you  really  want  to  sing  opera?'  And,  of 
course,  he  was  right.  I  didn't  really  know." 

It  had  been  a  hard  decision  to  make,  and 
it  was  hard  work  once  she  got  there. 
Right  from  the  beginning,  she  was  taking 
lessons  almost  from  morning  to  night. 
Dancing  lessons,  and  acting  lessons,  lan- 
guage  lessons   and   voice   lessons.    Robert 


Lewis  had  undertaken  the  job  of  coaching 
her  in  singing. 

"People  think  that,  because  he's  my  hus- 
band, he's  naturally  prejudiced  in  my 
favor,"  Betty  says.  "But,  believe  me,  that 
isn't  so.  Robert  is  the  toughest  critic  I'vp 
ever  had."  He  drove  her  and  criticized 
her  and  made  her  work  her  heart  out,  and 
she  loved  it. 

"It  wasn't  like  seeing  someone  on  a  date 
now  and  then,"  Betty  explains.  "I  got  to 
know  him  so  well  because  I  saw  his  worst 
behavior  as  well  as  his  best."  They  shared 
the  same  interests,  they  liked  the  same 
things.  They  had  become  very  good 
friends.  One  evening,  Robert  wanted  to 
know  something:  "Do  you  think  you 
would  ever  want  to  marry  me?" 

Betty  knew  why  he  had  said  it  so  un- 
certainly. He  was  nineteen  years  older 
than  she,  and  that  was  something  to  think 
about.  She  did  think  about  it.  And,  a 
few  weeks  later,  they  borrowed  a  little 
Austin  car,  crammed  into  it  all  of  Bob's 
cousins  they  could  find,  and  drove  up  to 
Yonkers  to  be  married  by  a  judge. 

Life  has  been  moving  at  a  pretty  swift 
pace  since  then.  It  has  been  seven  years 
crammed  tight  with  work  and  achieve- 
ment and  a  thousand  and  one  engrossing 
interests.  Bob  is  a  first-rate  photographer 
and  a  remarkable  cook.  Betty  knits  beau- 
tiful dresses  and  coats,  and  sews  like  a 
professional.  The  Lewises  are  wrapped  up 
in  music,  excited  about  painting  and  orig- 
inal works  of  art.  They  are  in  love  with 
travel,  and  spent  a  whole  year  in  Europe 
recently,  where  Betty  sang  at  servicemen's 
clubs,  with  Bob  accompanying  her,  and 
also  made  some  films. 

They  live  in  an  apartment  which  they 
decorated  themselves,  situated  in  the  heart 
of  Manhattan,  a  stone's  throw  from  the 
new  Coliseum.  Here  Robert  has  his  studio, 
and  here  he  and  Betty  work  together  on 
the  songs  she  has  to  prepare  for  the  shows 
she'll  be  appearing  in.  Mrs.  Lewis  is  still 
his  pupil,  and  a  pupil  who  has  done  very 
well  from  the  first.  She's  had  some  choice 
assignments:  Understudy  and  then  a 
lead  in  "Where's  Charley?"  with  Ray 
Bolger;  the  lead  in  a  nationwide  tour  of 
"Blossom  Time";  stand-by  role  for  Bar- 
bara Bel  Geddes  in  "The  Moon  Is  Blue," 
in  which  she  took  over  for  a  while. 

Best  of  all,  there  is  the  role  of  Roberta 
Wilcox  in  television's  Valiant  Lady.  This 
is  an  assignment  which  Betty  especially 
enjoys,  because  she  finds  it  a  challenge  to 
her  ability  as  an  actress.  She  has  been 
studying  acting  intensively  ever  since  she 
came  to  New  York,  and  now  it  has  become 
her  really  big  interest.  She  is  studying 
under  Lee  Strasberg  at  the  famous  Actors' 
Studio  for  the  second  year  now.  .  .  .  "It's 
one  of  the  most  important  things  I'm  do- 
ing," she  says,  "because  it  is  teaching  me 
how  to  put  real  meaning  into  what  I  do 
on  the  stage,  even  if  I  only  have  a  little 
part.    And  that's  the  real  thrill." 

And  a  pretty  far  cry  from  the  daydreams 
of  that  little  girl  in  Indianapolis  who  had 
wanted  to  be  a  grand  opera  star.  Yes, 
back  in  her  home  town  last  summer,  Betty 
made  many  discoveries.  The  discovery  of 
who  she  really  had  become.  The  re-dis- 
covery of  her  past  and  how  much  it  was 
part  of  her  present  and  would  be  part  of 
her  future  by  virtue  of  the  love  and  ex- 
periences and  values  she  would  always 
take  with  her. 

It  was  a  summer  to  remember.  First  of 
all,  standing  up  before  her  home-town 
people  and  performing  for  them.  She 
performed  leads  in  "Where's  Charley?" 
and  in  "Guys  and  Dolls"  at  the  big  open- 
air     theater     on     the     Butler     University 


with  eight  old 
Another  night, 
her.  Rosemary 
Walker    Lynch, 


campus,  and  she  enjoyed  every  minute  of 
it.  For  her,  there  could  never  be  another 
audience  like  this. 

It  was  exciting  onstage  during  the  per- 
formance, and  even  more  exciting  back- 
stage afterwards.  Because  that's  when 
everyone  came — Mrs.  Matkin  and  Mrs. 
Clippinger,  Dema  Lewis  and  Jane  Hamp- 
son.  One  night  there  was  a  large  party  of 
people  waiting  for  her.  Clarence  Elbert 
and  his  wife  had  come 
friends  from  the  choir, 
three  couples  surprised 
Walker,  now  Rosemary 
with  two  other  friends  and  their  husbands. 

The  Landmans  came  with  Barney's 
younger  brother  and  his  wife,  and,  of 
course,  Tommy  Wadelton  was  there  tak- 
ing pictures  and  kidding  as  he  always  had. 

One  night  after  the  show,  she  went  into 
Sam's  Subway,  which  is  a  big  delicatessen 
in  Indianapolis,  and  there  were  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Solomon  waiting  for  a  table.  "I  al- 
ways knew  you  would  do  it,  Betty  June," 
Mrs.  Solomon  beamed. 

There  were  so  many  good  things  to  re- 
member .  .  .  being  with  her  mother  every 
minute  she  could  and  spending  delightful 
hours  at  the  new  home  on  Lake  Patton 
.  .  .  going  back  to  the  Riviera  Club,  where 
she  used  to  swim  from  the  time  she  was 
just  big  enough  for  the  baby  pool  .  .  . 
visiting  Shortridge  High  School  and  seeing 
her  old  teachers  again  .  .  .  staying  over 
with  her  beloved  grandmother  at  Browns- 
burg,  Indiana.  And  then,  one  Sunday, 
singing  with  the  choir  at  the  Trinity  Evan- 
gelical Lutheran  Church,  singing  the  hymn 


which  has  always  been  her  favorite,  "Love 
Doth  Not  Fail." 

Then,  before  she  knew  it,  August  was 
over  and  it  was  time  to  say  goodby.  Re- 
turn the  bicycle  she  had  borrowed  to  get 
around  town,  because  she'd  never  learned 
to  drive  a  car.  Pick  up  her  French  poodle, 
TuTu,  from  her  mother's  house.  A  party 
with  the  cast,  a  last  evening  with  her 
mother,  and  a  last  look  at  the  Betty  June 
Oakes  who  used  to  live  here. 

Betty  came  back  to  New  York  on  Au- 
gust 30th,  and  a  few  days  later  was  play- 
ing the  part  of  Roberta  Wilcox  in  Valiant 
Lady  once  again.  It's  a  role  which  has 
always  held  a  great  appeal  for  her.  "I  like 
Roberta,  and  that's  probably  one  reason 
why  I  like  playing  her,"  Betty  says.  "She's 
a  definite,  strong  character  and  she  stands 
up  for  what  she  believes  in." 

This  year  Betty  is  busier  than  ever,  and 
more  sure  of  herself  than  she  ever  was 
before.  She's  down  at  the  Actors'  Studio 
for  classes  twice  a  week,  and  working  hard 
on  lessons  in  jazz  dancing,  which  has 
opened  up  a  new  world  of  expression  to 
her.  Vocal  training  with  coach  Robert 
Lewis  continues,  of  course.  So  do  the 
many  enthusiasms  which  she  and  husband 
Robert  Lewis  share  together. 

All  these  things  would  be  going  on, 
whether  she  had  gone  home  to  Indian- 
apolis last  summer  or  not.  But  there  is  a 
difference.  It's  the  difference  that  arises 
from  really  understanding  where  you 
come  from  and  what  you're  heading  to- 
wards. And  that's  what  Betty  Oakes 
knows  now. 


"A  Living  Doll" 


(Continued  from  page  34) 
a  bride  for  two  years — she  is  a  reputable 
cook  and  an  expert  housekeper  for  her 
husband,  Dr.  Vincent  J.  Merendino,  an 
obstetrician.  And  she  is  a  good  wife  in 
spite  of  being  frequently  interrupted  by 
other  women's  babies. 

"Vinnie  delivered  a  baby  the  day  we 
were  married,"  Betsy  recalls.  "He  de- 
livered three  on  our  first  anniversary.  On 
our  second  anniversary,  we  were  on  a 
plane  to  Jamaica  and  so  no  deliveries." 

Betsy  has  the  habit  of  tugging  at  her 
nose,  and  she  tugs  as  she  goes  on,  "And  I'm 
asked  if  I  mind  the  life  of  a  doctor's  wife. 
Well,  you  know  he  goes  out  in  the  middle 
of  the  night.  Most  of  the  time,  I  just  turn 
over  and  go  back  to  sleep.  Of  course, 
many  times  we  have  been  fully  dressed 
to  go  to  a  party  or  to  dinner  or  a  show — 
when  the  phone  rings.  So  I  stay  home 
alone.  Do  I  mind?  Truthfully,  no.  It 
doesn't  bother  me,  because  I'm  not  mad 
about  going  out.  I've  been  in  New  York 
since  1951  and  I've  been  to  just  one  night 
club — the  Stork  Club,  if  you  call  that  a 
'night  club' — and  I've  been  there  just 
once.     No,  I  prefer  home  to  going  out." 

Their  home  is  a  house  on  top  of  a  house 
— practically  a  tree-top  house.  They  live 
in  New  York's  Greenwich  Village,  on 
Washington  Square.  Their  apartment  is 
the  top  floor  of  a  brownstone  building 
and,  when  you  open  the  French  windows 
off  their  living  room,  you  look  down  into 
the  massive  tree  tops  of  the  park.  The 
living  room  is  enormous.  There  is  no 
ceiling,  and  the  roof  itself  comes  to  a 
peak  some  thirty -five  feet  above  the  cen- 
ter of  the  room.  The  inside  boards  of  the 
roof  have  ben  painted  white,  and  the 
heavy  beams  that  cross  the  room  and 
support  the  roof  are  a  dark  mahogany. 
There  is  a  balcony  over  the  living  room 
which  opens  onto  a  roof  terrace.  On  the 
main  floor,  besides  the  living  room,  there 
is    a    master    bedroom,    kitchen,    and    two 


small  bedrooms.    All  in  all,  lots  of  space. 

"To  me,  it  feels  more  like  a  house  than 
an  apartment,  and  that's  one  thing  I  like 
about  living  here,"  Betsy  says.  "Of  course, 
it's  pretty  high  up  and  there's  no  eleva- 
tor. When  we  came  up  to  see  it,  we 
got  to  the  third  landing  and  Vinnie  said, 
'Nothing  is  worth  this  much  climbing.' 
I  coaxed  him  on  up — and,  the  instant  he 
got  inside  the  door,  he  changed  his  mind." 

The  furnishings  are  early  American  and 
French  provincial  The  decorations  are  old 
pewter,  bits  of  china  and  glass.  Betsy  is 
a  girl  who  loves  old  things  and  admits 
to  being  sentimental.  There  is,  for  ex- 
ample, a  green  bottle  on  a  book  shelf. 
It  was  a  gift  from  the  Carlsons  of  Wood- 
stock, Illinois.  When  Betsy  met  them, 
she  was  a  fledgling  actress  in  winter 
stock  there.  She  was  on  her  way  from 
the  rooming  house  to  rehearsal,  when 
she  found  a  bird  badly  frozen  in  the 
snow.  She  picked  up  the  bird  and  carried 
it  to  the  theater.  The  watchman  sug- 
gested she  take  it  over  to  Elmer  Carl- 
son's house.  "The  Carlsons  take  care 
of   everything,"   he   said. 

So  Betsy  did,  and  Mr.  Carlson  was  so 
pleased  with  her  for  rescuing  the  bird 
that  he  dug  under  the  snow  in  his  back- 
yard and  presented  Betsy  with  a  bouquet 
of  winter  violets.  Betsy,  in  turn,  was  so 
taken  with  the  Carlsons  that  she  roomed 
at  their  home  for  the  remainder  of  the 
stay.  Betsy  makes  friends  wherever  she 
lives.  Her  start  as  an  actress  was  in 
stock  at  Lake  Geneva,  Wisconsin.  She 
roomed  with  two  elderly  ladies  who 
became  so  attached  to  Betsy  that  they 
sent  her  a  one-hundred-year-old  porce- 
lain cup  and  saucer  set. 

"Betsy  is  pure  gold,"  Jim  Lipton  notes. 
Jim,  a  star  of  The  Guiding  Light,  has 
known  Betsy  for  several  years.  This  past 
summer,  when  he  directed  the  Westport 
production  of  "A  Doctor  in  Spite  of  Him- 
self," he  chose  Betsy  as  his  leading  lady. 


Special  New  Tablet 

Relieves  Monthly  Cramps 

for  3  out  of  4  in  Tests! 


\  tg 

If  ' 

1 1  * '  >  B1 

1 

Amazing  new  formula  developed 

especially  for  female  distress  gives 

greater  relief  than  aspirin! 

If  you  dread  those  "difficult  days"  each 
month,  listen!  Science  has  developed  a 
special  new  tablet  to  relieve  pain,  cramps, 
and  tense  feelings  of  monthly  periods! 
It  contains  a  unique  combination  of  medi- 
cines—  including  blood-building  iron. 
Thus  offers  more  relief  than  plain  aspirin! 

In  doctors'  tests  painful  distress  was 
relieved  for  3  out  of  4  women!  Many 
didn't  suffer  even  on  the  first  day !  They 
also  escaped  much  of  the  jitters  and  un- 
happy tension  so  common  as  you  ap- 
proach that  trying  time  of  month. 

So  don't  suffer  needlessly.  Ask  for 
"Lydia  Pinkham  Tablets"  at  drug  stores. 
No  prescription  needed.  See  if  they  don't 
help  you  feel  worlds  better — both  before 
and  during  your  period! 


1 


MATERNITY 
STYLE  CATALOG 


SAVE  MONEY- Shop  by  Mail!  FREE  cata- 
log pictures  hundreds  of  exclusive  ma- 
ternity fashions.  World's  Largest.  Complete 
Selection,  Dresses,  Suits,  Mix  &  Match  Sep- 
arates, Sportswear,  Girdles,  Lingerie;  $2.98 
to  $22.98.  Catalog  mailed  in  plain  envelope . 

C  RAW  FO  R  D'S 

Dept.  35,  8015  Wornall,  Kansas  City  l4tMo     ^f  j 


LIVE  CHRISTMAS  TREES '...590 


We  guarantee  LIVE  DELIVERY  of 
the  famous  NORTH  WOODS  BAL- 
SAM FIR  TREE.  Fully  Rooted  and 
Branched... Bright  with  their  green 
pin  needles  come  to  you  well  rooted 
and  packed  in  moss.  These  thrilling 
miniatures  will  stand  approximately 
12"  High.  When  Potted  .  .  .  Will 
thrive  indoors  and  grow  for  years 
to  great  heights.  Order  Direct  and 
save  many  dollarsl  Use  with  your 
gift  packaging  as  a  Yule  memento. 
A  Wonderful  thing  to  have  and 
an  ideal  gift  for  everyone  on  your 
XMAS  LIST.  59C  each,  2  for  $1.00. 
12   for  $5.00.   Sorry,   no  C.O.D.'i. 

XMAS  TREES,  Dept.  143 

2725  Coney  Island  Ave.,  Bklyn  23.  N.  Y. 

IT'S  GREAT  TO  CLEAR  YOUR  SKIN 

PSORIASIS 

—  the  ugly  scaly  skin  trouble 


J2Ek 


SPOT 

TEST. 


^    DERMOIL 


Enjoy  the  thrill  of  a  smooth 
clear  skin!  DERMOIL 
formula  used  by  many  doctors.  Amazing 
results  reported  for  over  22  years!  No 
matter  how  long  you  have  suffered,  write 
for  Free  Book  on  Psoriasis  with  "Before 
and   After"   photos  of   results,  and 
SEND  10c  for  generous  trial  bottle. 
Satisfaction  in  2  weeks  or  money 
back.  Sold  by  all  Druggists. 

LAKE    LABORATORIES,   Dept.  2604 
Box  392S  Strathmoor  Station, Detroit  27, Mich. 


SencflOtjoT 
TRIAL 
.    SIZE  - 


"Betsy  works  hard,"  he  says.  "Never  com- 
plains. And  she  makes  friends  so  easily. 
I  saw  an  unusual  thing  happen:  The  ap- 
prentices at  the  theater — teenagers  who 
worked  for  room  and  board  and  no  money 
— gave  Betsy  a  party  and  decorated  her 
dressing  room  with  balloons  and  toy 
animals.  It  was  a  spontaneous  tribute 
to  her — and  where  they  got  the  money  for 
it,  I'll  never  know.  But  Betsy  is  lovable. 
An  actor  can  spot  phony  warmth  in  an- 
other actor  quickly.    Betsy  is  real." 

She  became  an  actress  almost  by  chance 
— for,  unlike  most  girls,  she  had  no  desire 
to  act.  As  a  child,  she  was  a  tomboy.  She 
loved  the  outdoors  and  was  great  for 
scouting.  In  her  teens,  she  was  a  Scout 
counselor  and  then  hoped  to  make  scout- 
ing a  career.  This  was  in  East  Chicago, 
Indiana,  where  she  was  born.  Her  father 
was  a  chemist  and,  perhaps,  responsible 
for  Betsy's  artistic  side.  He  was  a  man 
who  liked  to  write  and  enjoyed  theater 
and  opera.  As  a  lad,  he  had  carried  a 
spear  in  an  opera  company.  That  was  in 
Prague,  where  he  was  born  and  raised. 
He  came  to  the  United  States  on  a  trip — 
a  graduation  gift  from  his  parents — but 
met  the  woman  who  was  to  be  Betsy's 
mother,  married  and  stayed  on.  Betsy's 
mother  is  an  unusual  person,  too.  At  the 
age  of  twenty-two,  she  founded  the  East 
Chicago  Business  College  and  is  still  its 
head. 

"When  I  got  out  of  high  school,"  Betsy 
recalls,  "Mother  thought  I  should  take 
the  business  course.  It's  always  some- 
thing you  can  fall  back  on.  So  I  took  the 
course — but  I  think  she  was  glad  to  get 
rid  of  me.  I  couldn't  get  interested  in 
shorthand.  I  preferred  to  take  dictation 
on  the  typewriter.    I  really  enjoy  typing." 

Out  of  business  school,  Betsy  went  to 
work  as  a  stenographer.  She  remembers, 
"I  liked  the  work.  I  was  making  good 
money  and  quite  content  with  my  status. 
But  my  parents  weren't  quite  satisfied 
and  said,  'Isn't  it  time  you  went  to  col- 
lege?'" Betsy  had  been  working  as  a 
stenographer  for  a  year  and  a  half,  and 
she  replied  that  she  was  perfectly  happy 
as  she  was.  "Besides,"  she  added,  "what 
would  I  study?  There's  nothing  I  have 
any  particular  yen  to  be."  At  her  par- 
ents' insistence,  she  signed  up  at  the 
YWCA  for  a  comprehensive,  three-day 
aptitude  test.  The  results  showed  two 
things:  Personality-wise,  she  was  meant 
for  work  where  she  would  associate  with 
other  people;  career-wise,  it  was  noted 
that  she  scored  high  in  the  arts — drawing, 
writing,  acting.  Betsy  drew  the  conclu- 
sion, "Actors  work  with  other  people,  so 
I   shall   study   dramatics." 

For  three  and  a  half  years,  she  studied 
dramatics  at  DePaul  University  in  the 
evening.  She  continued  to  work  during 
the  day.  "I  had  no  ambition  for  the 
theater.  On  graduation,  I  fully  intended 
to  hold  onto  my  job.  I  was  a  typist  at  a 
radio  station.  I  thought  my  life  would 
be  average  and  I  would  eventually  marry 
and  make  a  home,  and  that's  all." 

But,  on  graduation  from  DePaul,  she 
was  offered  a  six-month  job  in  stock  at 
Lake  Geneva,  Wisconsin.  She  took  it 
and  returned  to  Chicago  to  play  more 
stock  there.  She  worked  with  such  stars 
as  Imogene  Coca  in  "Happy  Birthday," 
the  late  Mady  Christians  in  "Papa  Is  All," 
and  Richard  Carlson  in  "The  Petrified 
Forest."  They  all  encouraged  Betsy  to 
make  a  career  of  acting,  but  she  wasn't 
taking  it  seriously. 
T  "It  wasn't  until  the  summer  of  1951  that 
v  I  got  the  bug,"  she  says.  "At  the  time, 
„  I  was  thinking  seriously  of  marriage — 
although  I  now  know  I  wasn't  really  very 
close  to  it.    I  was  in  summer  stock,  play- 

inff    the    ^urifa    in     'T^ln  +  nni-liyr.    C^a«..  '    /~\— 


ing  night,  I  suddenly  realized  I  wanted 
to  be  an  actress.  Just  like  that.  Then 
I  knew  that  I  had  to  leave  Chicago,  for 
anyone  who  came  through  Chicago — Imo- 
gene or  Dick  Carlson  or  the  others — al- 
ways told  me:  'Go  to  Hollywood  or  go 
to  New  York.  If  you  want  to  be  an 
actress,  you  can't  stay  in  Chicago.'  So 
that  fall  I  came  East." 

From  the  beginning,  she  made  a  living. 
She  didn't  turn  up  her  nose  at  the  chance 
to  do  commercials.  And  she  was  hardy. 
She  played  in  the  TV  serial,  Dear  Susan, 
starring  the  late  Susan  Peters.  The  hitch 
here  was  that  the  show  originated  in 
Philadelphia,  and  Betsy  had  to  commute 
five  days  a  week  from  Manhattan.  Came 
her  first  summer,  and  things  got  a  little 
rocky.  "I  was  about  to  go  back  to  steno 
work,"  she  recalls,  "when  they  made  me 
'the  poor  man's  Roxanne'  on  Wheel  Of 
Fortune.  A  lot  of  actresses  would  have 
turned  this  down,  but  I  took  it.  That's 
what  they  mean  by  my  'healthy  attitude' 
toward  work." 

Betsy  is  not  a  snob  about  work,  but 
she  is  intelligent  and  diligent.  It  pays 
off.  Since  that  first  summer,  she  has 
performed  in  hundreds  of  TV  dramas. 
In  the  current  season,  she  has  starred  on 
both  Climax!  and  Kraft  Television  Theater. 
"And  yet,"  she  observes,  "people  feel  they 
know  me  better  for  the  panel  show.  Such 
strange  things  happen.  A  family  intro- 
duced themselves  to  tell  me  they  en- 
joyed Masquerade  Party,  then  asked  if  I 
did  anything  else  on  TV.  They  didn't 
recognize  me  as  an  actress." 

As  an  actress  she  has  worked  on  all  of 
the  top  TV  shows.  On  Broadway,  she 
played  opposite  Dennis  King  in  "Affair  of 
Honor."  She  worked  in  such  movies  as 
"Mister  Roberts,"  "Queen  Bee,"  and  "The 
Long  Gray  Line."  It  was  while  working 
in  the  latter  picture  that  she  met  her 
husband — and  that  was  chance,  too.  She 
had  gone  to  her  doctor  to  be  treated  for 
laryngitis.  He  had  said,  "I've  got  a 
friend  whom  I  think  you'd  get  along  with." 

The  friend  called — and  it  was  Dr.  Vin- 
cent J.  Merendino.  He  made  a  dinner 
date  but,  before  they  got  to  the  soup, 
Betsy  was  feeling  those  well  known  but- 
terflies: "Vinnie  is  tall,  dark  and  very 
masculine.  He's  the  kind  other  men  take 
to,  and  I  liked  this.  He's  very  strong  and 
I'd  always  been  kind  of  independent,  so 
we  hit  it  off."  The  courtship  lasted  three 
months,  but  it  wasn't  easy.  There  were 
babies  arriving  unexpectedly  and  cancel- 
ing out  dates.  And,  much  of  the  time, 
Betsy  was  on  location  at  West  Point  with 
the   company   of  "Long  Gray  Line." 

"We  were  married  so  suddenly,"  she 
recalls,  "that  my  parents  didn't  have  time 
to  come  in  from  Chicago.  We  didn't  re- 
alize how  much  in  love  we  were  until  it 
was  time  for  me  to  pack  up  and  fly  to 
the  Coast  to  finish  the  picture.  We  were 
to  fly  out  Sunday  morning.  Friday  after- 
noon, Vinnie  and  I  went  to  City  Hall  and 
got  a  license.  The  next  day,  May  8,  1954, 
we  were  married  at  The  Little  Church 
Around  the  Corner.  Vinnie's  folks  came 
over  from  New  Jersey — his  father  is  a 
doctor  in  Englewood.  After  the  ceremony, 
Vinnie  got  his  bag  and  went  out  to  Holly- 
wood with  me  for  our  honeymoon." 

Unlike  most  performers,  Betsy  is  in 
bed  before  midnight — and  up  quite  early 
to  breakfast  with  her  husband.  Although 
she  has  help  with  the  cleaning,  she  does 
all  of  her  own  cooking. 

"Even  when  I'm  working  and  Vinnie 
offers    to    take    me    out,"    she    notes,    "it's 


New  Year,  New  Stars,  New  Stories  in 

JANUARY  TV  RADIO  MIRROR 


80 


ing  the  wife  in  'Detective  Story.'  On  open-       on  sale  at  your  newsstand   December  4 


easier  to  get  into  comfortable  clothes  and 
just  fix  something  at  home.  Actually,  I 
think  I'm  a  pretty  good  cook  now.  It  was 
ability  born  of  necessity.  I  love  good  food 
and  my  roommate,  when  I  came  to  New 
York,  was  a  terrible  cook.  We  couldn't 
afford  to  eat  out,  and  our  dates  were  ac- 
tors who  usually  couldn't  afford  to  eat 
at  all — so,  most  of  the  time,  they  were 
our  guests  at  dinner.  So  I  learned  to 
cook.  I  think  anyone  who  can  read,  and 
who  appreciates  good  food,  can  cook." 

Last  Thanksgiving,  she  invited  Vinnie's 
family  to  dinner,  because  she  had  been 
dying  to  do  a  big  turkey.  This  year,  she 
is  hoping  to  have  the  family  for  Christ- 
mas. The  kitchen  is  small  but  adequate. 
The  dining  area  is  the  back  third  of  the 
enormous  living  room.  The  table  and 
chairs  and  sideboard  are  French  provincial 
furniture  which  Vinnie  inherited  from  his 
grandmother.  The  pieces  have  been  re- 
finished  in  white  antique.  Betsy  has 
used  oval  hooked  rugs  in  the  dining  area. 
Over  the  table  hangs  a  wrought-iron 
chandelier-type  candleholder.  The  living 
area  has  a  couple  of  love  seats  and  a  sofa 
and  chairs  covered  in  plaids  and  yellow. 
There  is  a  coffee  table — actually  a  small 
formica  table — dressed  up  with  an  antique 
picture  frame.  The  wall  on  the  street 
side  has  French  windows.  The  long  wall 
has  a  fireplace  and  white  bookcases.  The 
other  wall  is  broken  by  a  stairway  which 
leads  to  an  L-shaped  balcony.  Off  the  bal- 
cony is  a  roof  terrace  that  holds  dozens 
of  potted  plants  and  several  potted  trees. 

If  you  pass  up  the  terrace  door,  you 
walk  into  a  television  alcove  on  the 
balcony.  Back  in  the  living  room,  at  the 
base  of  the  balcony  stairs,  is  a  grand 
piano.  Betsy  has  played  since  she  was 
twelve.  She  plays  popular  and  classical 
music  for  her  own  enjoyment.  Being  a 
romanticist,  Debussy  is  her  favorite.  The 
piano  was  a  birthday  gift.  "From  Vinnie 
— who  is  also  a  romanticist  and  senti- 
mentalist," she  says.  "He  never  forgets  a 
birthday  or  anniversary." 

Vinnie  comes  up  with  unusual  gifts.  In- 
stead of  an  engagement  ring — Betsy  sug- 
gested she  could  do  without  one — he  gave 
her  a  hi-fi  set.  On  one  birthday,  he  gave 
her  a  silver  French  poodle.  He  often  buys 
clothes  for  her.  "I  always  like  the  things 
he  buys,"  says  Betsy.  "Actually,  I'm  not 
a  clothes-horse.  I  like  to  put  on  a  long 
dress  once  in  a  while,  but  mostly  I  prefer 
casual  clothes.  Clothes  are  not  of  first 
importance.  For  example,  before  I  was 
married,  I  chose  to  put  a  little  more 
money  into  a  pleasant  apartment  rather 
than  into  an  extensive  wardrobe.  And 
I  feel  much  the  same  about  jewelry.  I 
have  very,  very  little." 

Most  evenings  are  spent  reading,  visit- 
ing or  entertaining  friends.  Vinnie  gets 
along  well  with  actors  and  Betsy  gets 
along  well  with  doctors.  She  is  an  excel- 
lent athlete,  but  ranks  second  to  her 
husband  at  golf  and  tennis. 

"I  think  Vinnie  and  I  have  a  very  good 
relationship,"  Betsy  sums  up.  "We  never 
hold  grudges.  When  I  get  mad — and  that 
is  rarely — it  is  usually  due  to  fatigue, 
which  has  nothing  to  do  with  Vinnie.  And 
usually  he  will  point  out  to  me  that  my 
reaction  is  emotional  rather  than  intel- 
lectual. He  reminds  me  to  stop  and  think. 
Of  course,  when  he's  wrong,  he  readily 
admits  it,"  she  smiles.  "I'm  very  proud 
of  him,  as  I  know  he  is  of  me." 

Betsy  tugs  at  her  nose  a  little,  before 
concluding:  "He's  such  a  wonderful  guy. 
My  friends  are  always  telling  me  this. 
But  I  know  it,  too,  and  that's  the  im- 
portant thing.  A  good,  lasting  marriage 
has  to  have  more  than  love — and  one  of 
the  things  it  must  have  is  respect.  Vinnie 
and  I  have  respect  for  each  other." 


All  of  a  Sudden  Love 


(Continued  from  page  22) 
late  in  his  Manhattan  apartment,  was 
awakened  by  the  persistent  ringing  of  his 
telephone.  "Whoever  it  is,  whatever  they 
want,"  he  thought,  as  he  straggled  out  of 
bed,  "the  answer  is  no."  This  particular 
Sunday  was  the  closing  day  of  "Carousel," 
in  which  he  was  starring  at  New  York 
City  Center  Theater.  He  had  a  matinee 
and  an  evening  performance  ahead  of 
him,  and  probably  an  after-closing  party. 
He  certainly  wasn't  going  anywhere  this 
morning  or  asking  anyone  over. 

There  was  a  challenge  in  his  voice  when 
he  picked  up  the  phone.  "Hello,"  he 
barked.  It  was  his  old  friend,  publicist 
Andre  Duval.  "Do  you  remember  that 
gal  from  Atlanta  I've  been  threatening  to 
introduce  you  to  for  the  past  seven  years 
or  so?"  Andre  began. 

No  girls,  especially  no  girls,  John 
thought  to  himself  as  he  listened.  He'd 
met  too  many  girls  already.  .  .  .  "Ruth 
Harris,"   Andre   went   on,    "the   redhead." 

John  guessed  he  remembered.  Well, 
Andre  and  his  wife  were  right  then  at 
her  apartment  for  brunch,  and  Ruth  had 
said  she  could  hold  up  the  food  until  John 
got  there. 

"I've  a  matinee . . ."  John  began,  when 
a  warmly  feminine  Southern  voice  came 
on  the  line,  inquiring,  "How  do  you  like 
your  eggs?" 

"Scrambled  soft,"  John  said,  in  spite  of 
himself.  "How  soon  can  you  be  here?" 
the  compelling  voice  replied.  "In  thirty 
minutes,"  he  said.  "They'll  be  ready," 
Ruth  Harris  said,  and  hung  up. 

"I  had  had  a  crush  on  John  Conte  ever 
since  I  was  in  high  school,"  Ruth  admits 
now.  "Used  to  duck  out  of  class  for 
fifteen  minutes  every  morning,  to  turn  on 
his  singing  show  on  the  car  radio.  I  had 
badgered  Andre  to  introduce  us,  from  the 
time  I  found  out  he  knew  John.  There 
was  always  some  complication  ...  he 
was  involved  with  this  girl  or  that  girl, 
or  he  was  in  Hollywood,  or  I  was  in 
Atlanta.  But  this  day  I  was  determined 
to  meet  him.  The  Duvals  were  leaving 
the  next  day  for  the  West  Coast  ...  it 
was  my  last  chance." 

Ruth's  brunch  was  sensational.  Ruth  is 
a  marvelous  cook —  "I  used  to  do  a  cook- 
ing program  on  TV,"  she  explains.  But 
this   Sunday   morning  she   outdid   herself. 

John,  pulling  himself  away  with  just 
time  enough  to  make  the  matinee  cur- 
tain, was  surprised  to  hear  himself  asking 
Ruth  to  have  dinner  with  him  at  his 
apartment    the    following    Tuesday    night. 

From  that  point  it  was  simple,  John 
says.  "We  started  having  dates  a  couple 
of  nights  a  week,  and  then  three,  and  then 
four — and,  when  we  got  to  seven,  we  got 
married." 

No  matter  what  John  says,  it  wasn't 
simple  at  all,  Ruth  confesses  now,  her 
battle  long  since  won.  She  has  been  Mrs. 
John  Conte,  and  loving  it,  since  December 
23,  1954.  But,  says  Ruth,  "John  had  abso- 
lutely no  intention  of  relinquishing  his 
bachelor  status.  He  wouldn't  propose.  He 
wouldn't  even  tell  me  he  loved  me." 

"I  told  her,"  John  insists.  "I  made  a 
recording  of  'For  the  Very  First  Time'  and 
gave  her  the  master  disc." 

"I  took  him  home  to  meet  my  parents 
at  Thanksgiving,"  Ruth  recalls.  "My 
mother  fell  in  love  with  him  .  .  .  John 
loved  my  folks,  and  had  a  wonderful 
time,  but  he  didn't  propose!" 

But,  back  in  Manhattan,  their  dates 
together  became  more  frequent — almost 
that  decisive  seven  nights  a  week.  It  was 
at  about  this  time  that  John  and  Ruth 
were  invited  to  a  party  at  which  May 
Perez,  the  celebrated  psychic,  was  to  tell 
everyone's  future.  John   volunteered   first 


All  Madame  Perez  knew  was  his  birth- 
date.  All  she  could  see  were  the  lines  in 
the  palm  of  his  hand.  "You've  recently 
met  a  girl,"  she  began,  "who  will  mean  a 
great  deal  in  your  life.  I  see  an  'H'— a 
big  'H'.  Does  the  letter  mean  anything 
to  you?" 

"Harriette,  Henriette  .  .  ."  John  fumbled. 
"No,  I  don't  know  any  girls  whose  names 
start  with  'H.' "  Listening  quietly  from 
across  the  room,  Ruth  Harris  smiled. 

"This  girl  will  be  very  good  for  you," 
Madame  Perez  persisted.  "You're  a 
dreamer,  she's  down  to  earth— she  will 
be  a  great  influence  in  your  life." 

At  this  point  she  looked  about  the  room, 
finally  pointed  to  Ruth.  "She's  about  that 
girl's  height  and  coloring,"  she  said.  John 
still  didn't  make  the  connection. 

Ruth's  own  future  was  told  much  later 
in  the  evening.  "You're  in  love,"  Madame 
Perez  began,  "with  someone  you've  met 
just  recently."  And  then:  "But,  of  course, 
you're  the  one — the  big  'H.'  .  .  .  You'll  be 
married  soon,"  she  was  certain.  ("I  could 
just  hear  John  thinking  Not  me!"  Ruth 
laughs.)  "You'll  move  to  Hollywood  per- 
manently," Madame  Perez  continued. 
(Even  more  unlikely.)  "You'll  buy  a 
house  .  .  .  you'll  have  a  baby,  maybe  two." 

Ruth  and  John  lost  a  baby  in  Ruth's 
fifth  month  of  pregnancy  last  spring.  They 
are  awaiting  only  the  doctor's  okay  to 
try  to  prove  May  Perez'  last  prediction. 

"It  sounded  like  a  lovely  future,"  Ruth 
Conte  reminisces  now.  "I  decided  to  give 
Madame  Perez  a  little  help.  .  .  ." 

Christmas  was  approaching.  Ruth's  par- 
ents, vacationing  at  a  seaside  cottage  in 
Florida,  wrote  urging  her  to  join  them 
there  for  the  holidays.  Ruth  invited  John 
to  make  the  trip  South  with  her,  and 
John,  remembering  the  Harrises'  warm 
hospitality  at  Thanksgiving,  accepted. 

"Of  course,"  Ruth  said  pointedly,  "the 
cottage  is  a  little  small.  "It  would  be 
much  more  convenient  if  we  got  married." 
Somebody  had  to  propose. 

After  a  moment  of  shock,  John  mut- 
tered "But  wouldn't  that  be  a  lot  of 
trouble?"  Not  at  all,  Ruth  assured  him — 
and  dictated  a  message  to  Western  Union. 

"Dear  Mother  and  Pop,"  it  went.  "Please 
arrange  break  all  red  tape  so  we  can  be 
married  immediately  on  arrival.  Love. 
Ruth." 

They  were  married  the  next  day  at  the 
little  courthouse  in  Folkston,  Georgia, 
where  Mr.  Harris  had  been  able  to  arrange 
a  waiver  of  the  three-day  waiting  period. 

It  had  been  touch  and  go  until  the  last 
minute.  "I  knew  how  John  felt,"  Ruth 
says.    "He  was  scared  .  .  ." 

The  Harrises  were  waiting  for  them  at 
the  airport.  Jeff,  the  chauffeur  who  has 
been  with  the  family  for  years,  was  at 
the  wheel  of  their  big  car. 

After  excited  greetings,  Ruth  and  John 
climbed  into  the  car  with  her  parents,  and 
Jeff  wheeled  the  automobile  around  to 
the  north  in  the  direction  of  town. 

"Just  a  minute,  Jeff,"  Ruth  said.  Then 
she  took  John's  moist  hands  in  hers  and 
spoke  very  softly. 

"John,  we  don't  have  to  go  to  Florida. 
We  can  go  north  to  Folkston.  Or  we  can 
go  south  to  the  big  house  in  Atlanta.  I 
want  you  to  choose." 

"North,"  John  told  Jeff,  with  a  final 
flood  of  conviction. 

A  half  hour  later,  they  were  man  and 
wife  and  on  their  way  to  Florida  for  a 
green  Christmas  and  an  idyllic  honey- 
moon. The  first  of  Madame  Perez'  pre- 
dictions had  come  true. 

Back  in  New  York,  Ruth  found  a  pleas- 
ant apartment  and  set  to  work  on  its 
decoration.    She  has  a  real  flair  for  deco- 


%\frvtt  SS  SAlt 

DRESSES 


uS8> 


ASSORTED  in  Silk,  Wool,  CoHen  &  Rayon  .  All 
SIZES  in  Good  Condition. BUT  NO  IESS  THAN 
30  DRESSES  AT  THIS  BARGAIN  PRICE. 

MONEY  BACK  IF  NOT  SATISFIED 

it. 00  D.pont  MUST  cemt  with  ordor.  You  pay 

poitman  balanco   plui   C.O.D.,  pettago  chargot. 

A  TRIAL  ORDER  Will  CONVINCE  YOU  OF 

OUR  WONDERFUL  BARGAINS 


MAIL  ORDER  MART 
199  Socket t   St.,  Bklyn  31,  N.Y. 


Dept. 
MW-12 


Nime t 

•  • 
I  Addreu, • 

I  City State , 

|    Encloied    find    SI  00    Dcpoi.r     I    -ill    pay    poitmin    COD     I 
|    bilincc  PLUS  pottjge.  I 

I  ITEM  I  SIZE  I  PRICE  J 

•  • 


SONG  POEMS  WANTED 

To  be  set  to  music.  Send  your  poems  today  for  free 
examination!  "  ..... 

J.  CHAS.  McNEIL  (A.  B.  Master  of  Music) 
510-MG  So.  Alexandria  Los  Angeles  5.  Calif. 


Z  Childs  Photo 


PAID  if  used  for  advertising.  BIG  DE- 
MAND for  photos  of  infants  and  up  to 
18  yrs.  May  also  qualify  for  FREE 
CAMERA.  Send  ONE  small  photo  for 
approval.  Print  child's  and  mother's 
name,  address  on  back.  Returned  two 
weeks.      NO     OBLIGATION. 

ADVERTISERS  PHOTOS 
6000-HZ    Sunset,     Hollywood    28,    Calif. 

SHORTHANDjn 

Famous  SPEEDWRITING  shorthana.  120 
words  per  minute.  No  symbols;  no  machines. 
Uses  ABC's.  Easiest  to  learn,  write,  tran- 
scribe. Lowest  cost.  Over  350.000  graduates. 
Tvping  available.  34th  Year.  Schools  In 
over  400  cities.  Write  for  FREE  booklet 


Dept.    312-6 
55   W.   42   St.,    N.   Y.   36 


ANY  PHOTO  ENLARGED 


Size  S  x  lO  Inches 

on  DOUBLE-WEIGHT  Paper 

Same  price  for  fnll  length  or  bast 
form,  groups,  landscapes,  pet  ani- 
mals, etc.,  or  enlargements  of  any 
part  of  a  group  picture.  Original  is 
returned  with  yonr  enlargement. 


67 


Send  No  Money  3tor$150  ■ 

Just  mail  photo,  negative  or  snap-  J*K 

shot  (any  size)  and  receive  your  enlargement, 
guaranteed  fadeless,  on  beautiful  double-weight 
portrait  quality  paper.  Pay  postman  67c  plus 

postage— or  send  69c  with  order  and  we  pay  post-  •«■-« 

age    Take  advantage  of  this  amazing  offer.  Send  your  photos  today. 

Professional  Art  Studios.  544  S.  Main,  Dept  36- S,  Princeton,  Illinois 

Learn  Facts  on 

Chronic  Ailments 

FREE    BOOK— Explains    Causes, 
Effects  and  Treatment 


**°. 


OS"** 


*zzm 


etvts 


Avoid 

\  Dangers 
>f  Delay 


Neglected  piles,  fistula  and  colon  troubles 
often  spread  infection  and  cause  other 
chronic  conditions.  Write  today  for  130-page 
FREE  BOOK.  Learn  facts.  McCleary  Clinic 
and  Hospital,  1223  Elms  Blvd.,  Excelsior 
Springs  5,  Mo. 


81 


rating — of  all  the  courses  she  taught  in 
the  six  schools  of  charm  she  had  estab- 
lished and  directed  for  ten  years  in  the 
South,   she   loved   Home   Decoration   best. 

She  worked  like  a  happy  beaver  and, 
after  three  months,  invited  their  circle  of 
New  York  friends  to  a  housewarming. 

The  next  day  John  was  offered  a  star- 
ring role  in  a  Climax!  TV  production — 
in  Hollywood.  Madame  had  said  they 
would  go  to  Hollywood — and  permanently. 

"We'll  just  fly  out,  do  the  show  and 
come  right  back,"  John  said  with  great 
certainty.  Ruth  packed  a  couple  of  week- 
end cases,  locked  the  door  of  the  apart- 
ment, and  they  were  off. 

On  the  basis  of  his  Climax!  perform- 
ance, John  landed  a  featured  role  in  the 
film,  "The  Man  with  the  Golden  Arm." 
They  had  to  stay  on  the  West  Coast  for 
that,  of  course.  While  he  was  still  in  pro- 
duction on  the  movie,  NBC -TV  ap- 
proached him  with  the  proposal  that  he 
launch  their  prospective  Matinee  Theater. 
It  was  just  too  good  to  turn  down. 

Having  come  West  for  "a  couple  of 
days,"  they  had  been  "camping"  in  hotel 
suites.  But,  now  that  they  were  to  be 
permanent  residents  in  Hollywood — and 
since  they  also  knew  now  that  a  baby 
was  on  the  way — Ruth  began  looking  for 
more  appropriate  quarters. 

"We  might  as  well  buy  a  house  and  get 
it  over  with,"  she  said.  "Madame  Perez 
has  been  right  on  all  the  important  things. 
It's  pretty  silly  to  hold  out  on  anything 
relatively  so  inconsequential." 

Ruth  looked  at  hundreds  of  houses, 
decided  on  one  which  would  have  made 


most  modern  newlyweds  shudder.  It  was 
in  the  nicest  section  of  Beverly  Hills.  But 
it  was  old,  and  dirty,  and  dark.  And  it 
was  Spanish.  John  himself  shuddered,  the 
first  time  Ruth  took  him  to  see  it. 

"The  floor  plan  is  great,"  Ruth  told 
him.  "Everything  we  don't  like — which  is 
everything  else — we  will  change." 

They  did  impressive  amounts  of  the 
work  themselves.  John  was  by  now  keep- 
ing the  rigorous  schedule  of  Matinee 
Theater,  but  they  had  evenings  to  work, 
and  weekends. 

The  work  weekends  were  fun.  Friends 
assembled  from  every  corner  of  town  to 
participate  in  paint-removing  parties — the 
house  was  full  of  dark,  fading  paint  and, 
in  the  kitchen  alone,  there  were  seven 
coats  of  a  color  Ruth  can  describe  only 
as  "black  green"  to  be  removed. 

The  paint  removers  would  scour  away 
for  hours.  Then,  at  exactly  the  right 
psychological  moment,  Ruth  would  call 
the  gang  to  a  picnic  supper  on  the  lawn — 
a  ham  or  a  roast  of  beef,  a  turkey,  big 
green  salads  and  a  homemade  cake.  Pretty 
soon  they  had  more  volunteers  for  work 
than  there  was  work  to  do. 

The  living  room,  once  dirty  tan,  looks 
bigger  and  infinitely  warmer  with  its 
ivory  walls  and  ivory  wall-to-wall  car- 
peting. The  ceiling-to-floor  draperies 
have  a  graceful  coral  and  green  print  on 
the  basic  ivory  background.  Coral  and 
green  are  repeated  in  the  furniture  fabrics. 

The  house  is  full  of  magnificent  light- 
ing fixtures  which  Ruth  bought  "for  a 
song"  at  an  auction,  and  which  John  him- 
self installed.    He  is  particularly  proud  of 


a  crystal  chandelier  in  the  graceful  foyer 
(from  which  curving  steps,  ivory  carpeted, 
ascend  to  the  second  floor). 

John  also  installed  the  ceilings  and  wall 
paneling  in  their  charming  study,  and 
walls  of  white  plastic  brick  in  a  room 
which  is  to  be  a  playroom  and  bar. 

As  in  most  young  moderns'  homes  to- 
day, the  kitchen  sees  as  much  of  the 
guests  as  the  living  room,  so  Ruth  de- 
voted generous  amounts  of  her  budget  to 
making  it  attractive.  The  cabinets — sans 
their  seven  coats  of  "black  green" — are 
quite  beautiful,  pared  down  to  the  orig- 
inal wood  and  lightly  stained.  Built-in 
ovens  and  grill  are  soft  brown,  as  is  the 
refrigerator. 

But,  as  in  most  young  moderns'  homes, 
the  job  is  never  done.  What  will  one  day 
be  a  guest  room  is  now  a  sewing  center, 
where  Ruth  makes  curtains,  drapes,  and 
bed  coverings.  The  master  bedroom  is 
habitable,  but  still  far  from  what  Ruth 
envisions  as  the  finished  product.  There 
is  a  nursery,  too,  ready  for  the  baby  they 
know  they  will  have  one  day. 

"I  probably  worked  too  hard  on  the 
house,"  Ruth  explains,  but  adds  confi- 
dently,   "I'll   know   better   next   time." 

"I  will  know  better,"  John  emphasizes. 

A  baby  in  the  new  house  is  all  the 
Contes  need  today  to  make  their  life 
complete.  .  .  .  Besides,  there's  still  that 
one  last  prediction  of  the  far-seeing 
Madame  Perez  to  be  made  good.  The 
Contes  feel  rather  fond  of  the  psychic 
lady.  She  knew  John  was  through  with 
bachelorhood  before  he  did  .  .  .  almost 
before  Ruth  did,  as  a  matter  of  fact. 


Bill  Cullen — The  Man  Who  Has  Everything 


(Continued   from   page   39) 
is  just  across  the  street  from  Gracie  Man- 
sion— the  home  of  New  York's  Mayor. 

"We  did  it  all  ourselves,"  Bill  said, 
"without  benefit  of  interior  decorator,  or 
even  tips  from  decor-minded  friends  .  .  . 
and  we're  pretty  proud  of  it!  The  living 
room  with  its  bank  of  windows  overlook- 
ing the  river  (a  view  like  you  never  saw 
in  your  life!)  is  done,  the  whole  thing,  in 
earth  tones.  One  wall  is  white  brick,  the 
other  three  are  beige  grass  paper.  The 
draperies  are  a  lighter  silk  beige.  The 
twelve-foot  sofa  is  cinnamon,  sort  of  a " 
silky  fabric.  The  floor  is  covered  with  a 
white  rug.  All  of  the  wood  is  either  oiled 
walnut  or  very  dark  mahogany.  Lots  of 
copper.  Lots  of  brass.  Under  the  win- 
dows, a  bank  of  brass  planters  with  ferns 
and  plants,  most  of  them  tropical.  The 
dining  room  is  an  ell  off  the  living  room, 
so  we've  carried  the  grass  paper  right 
through.  The  furniture  is  natural  wood, 
light  in  color,  half-and-half  by  Jens  Ri- 
som,  the  Danish  designer,  and  a  real 
genius,  and  Edward  Wormley — another 
genius!  Off  the  dining  room,  at  the  other 
end,  we  have  a  little  terrace  which,  with 
the  exception  of  a  barbecue  and  a  couple 
of  geranium  plants,  we  haven't  fixed  up 
as  yet.  Eventually  we'll  get  a  table  and 
chairs,  and  be  able  to  eat  out  there  under 
the  sun,  moon  and  stars,  and  watch  the 
ships  going  down  to  the  sea. 

"The  master  bedroom,  our  bedroom,  has 
one    white    and    three    gray    walls    and, 
against  one  of  them,  brass  planters   (here   . 
we  go  again)   filled  with  those  green  and 
growing    things.     The    bedroom    floor    is 
covered   in  white.    The   furniture   is  very 
dark  mahogany,  so  dark  it  might  be  black. 
T    We  have  a  seven-foot  bed,  with  a  white 
Y    leather  headboard  that  comes  down,  mak- 
R    ing  a  seat,  with  arms,  for  reading  in  bed. 
The  kitchen  is  yellow,   with  the   custom- 
ary   cookstove,    sink    and    so    on,    a    peg 

board,   a   spice   rack,   lots   of   copper   and, 
<52 


uh,  things  .  .  ."  Kitchen-wise,  Bill  went 
a  little  vague  on  us,  although  Ann  says 
he  makes  a  wonderful  spaghetti  and 
sauce — "and,  believe  it  or  not,"  she  added, 
"wonderful  souffles  of  a  flavor  and  deli- 
cacy a  French  chef  would  envy!  As  a 
cook  he  leaves  nothing  to  be  desired;  as 
a  cleaner-upper  after  he  cooks,"  Ann 
laughed,  "he  does." 

TTe  and  Ann  had  felt  a  bit  uneasy,  Bill 
<i'„  .fitted,  about  the  "infinite  amount  of 
money"  they  spent  on  the  apartment. 
They  had  their  moments  of  thinking  they 
should  compromise  here  and  there  by 
taking  "second-best." 

"But  if  we  took  second-best,"  says  Bill, 
"we'd  only  be  dissatisfied  in  time,  which 
would  mean  we'd  start  replacing  things 
and,  in  the  long  run,  spend  more  money 
than  if  we  got  the  things  that  are  for 
keeps.  I'm  not  a  drinker,  not  a  gambler, 
no  horse  races,  no  night-clubbing.  I  used 
to  have  a  40-foot  sailboat,  would  like  to 
have  a  boat  again,  but  not  now,  not, 
please,"  Bill  laughed,  "for  Christmas!  I 
used  to  'keep'  fancy  fish.  None  of  that 
upkeep  now.  I  did  buy  a  Thunderbird  car 
to  match  one  I  had  on  the  Coast,  so  I 
could  show  Ann,  a  Californian,  the  beau- 
ties of  the  East  Coast.  An  avid  amateur 
photographer,  I  have  quite  a  collection 
of  cameras  and  if  I  have  any  one  big 
ungratified  desire,  it's  to  have  a  dark- 
room of  my  own,  but  again,  not  for 
Christmas — the  limitation  of  space  in  a 
New  York  apartment  forbids.  (Bill  takes 
so  many  pictures  of  her  that  she  does 
wish,  Ann  laughed,  she'd  been  this  much 
in  demand  when  she  was  modeling  at 
twenty -five  dollars  an  hour!) 

"Where  I'm  extravagant,"  Bill  summed 
it  up,  "is  that  I  like  to  live  well.  I  do  live 
well.  So  what  if  I  don't  have  any  money — 
the  apartment's  all  paid  for  and,  to  me, 
it's  worth  it!" 

At  work  as  at  home,  Bill  is  genuinely 
happy.    "I  make  a  very  good  living  doing 


the  thing  I  like  to  do — what  more,"  he 
asks,  "is  there?"  No  more.  The  wonder 
of  it  is  that  it  should  be  for  Bill,  who 
wasn't  one  of  the  "born  lucky"  boys. 

Born  William  Lawrence  Cullen  in  Pitts- 
burgh, Pennsylvania,  February  18,  1920, 
Bill  was  less  than  two  years  old  when  he 
was  stricken  by  polio.  Doctors,  many  of 
them,  said  he  might  never  walk  again. 
In  a  hospital  for  many  months,  and  with 
a  brace  (long  since  discarded)  on  his  leg 
when  he  was  discharged,  Bill  walked 
again.  He  doesn't  know  for  sure  what 
type  of  polio  treatment  was  given  him  in 
the  hospital.  But  he  is  very  sure  of  the 
treatment  that,  through  the  years,  he  gave 
himself.  He  calls  it:  Never  letting  it  get 
you  down. 

It  never  did.  During  high-school  days 
(Pittsburgh's  South  Side  High  School)  he 
became  interested  in  midget  auto  racing, 
expecting  to  make  it  his  career  after 
graduation.  When  his  parents  insisted 
that  he  continue  his  education,  Bill  en- 
rolled at  the  University  of  Pittsburgh, 
where  he  took  a  pre-med  course  but  man- 
aged to  keep  up  with  his  midget  auto 
racing  in  his  spare  time.  Not  only  did 
he  become  an  expert  midget  racer  but, 
when  he  was  rejected  for  war  service,  he 
taught  himself  to  fly  and  became  an  active 
flier  and  instructor  for  civilian  defense. 
Having  attained  five  thousand  solo  flying 
hours,  Bill  subsequently  operated  his  own 
Appointment  Airlines — a  private  plane 
service   which   catered   to   notables. 

A  further  example  of  Bill's  tenacity  is 
that  he  started  in  radio  at  the  bottom  of 
the  ladder — as  assistant  disc  jockey  of  a 
250-watt  Pittsburgh  station.  When  finan- 
cial difficulties  forced  him  to  leave  col- 
lege, he  cashed  in  on  his  mechanical 
knowledge  and  got  a  job  in  a  garage. 
Radio  was  really  rolling  at  this  time  and 
Bill  kept  his  co-workers  amused  with  his 
take-offs  on  noted  airwave  favorites.  One 
day,  when  called  on  a  tow  job,  he  met  an 


- 


r 


executive  of  a  local  radio  station  and  took 
advantage  of  the  opportunity  to  run 
through  a  few  of  his  routines.  The  ex- 
ecutive, highly  amused,  gave  him  his  first 
modest  spot  on  the  air.  Thereafter,  Bill 
announced  for  hotel  orchestras,  did  all 
sorts  of  emcee  jobs,  ventured  into  sports- 
casting,  mounted  the  ladder  of  success 
steadily  and  surely,  rung  by  rung.  Then, 
after  a  successful  stint  as  free-lance  an- 
nouncer, he  took  the  big  plunge  and  went 
to  New  York,  where  the  competition  is 
stiffest,  to  try  his  luck  in  radio.  His  break 
came  in  1946,  when  he  was  an  announcer 
on  Winner  Take  All.  One  day  the  emcee 
fell  ill,  young  Cullen  took  over,  and  an 
accomplished  quizmaster  as  well  as  an 
authentic  radio  personality  was  born. 

Today  Bill  walks  with  a  limp,  no  dis- 
tortion of  any  sort,  but  still  a  perceptible 
limp  which  does  not,  however,  hamper 
him  in  any  other  way  than  that,  except 
for  swimming  and  an  occasional  round  of 
golf,  he's  limited  to  spectator  sports. 

Career-wise  he  is,  of  course,  one  of  the 
young  men  most  in  demand  on  radio  and 
TV.  Bill  did  not,  he  says,  looking  amused, 
ask  for  the  early-moming  Pulse  show 
assignment.  When  the  job  was  first  of- 
fered him,  he  hesitated  a  bit — as  Dave 
Garroway  and  Will  Rogers,  Jr.,  must  have 
done — at  the  prospect  of  rising  six  days 
a  week — before  the  chickens!  Now  that 
he's  doing  it,  however,  and  so  success- 
fully (when  Bill  took  over  as  moderator, 
Pulse  was  on  the  air  from  6:30  to  9:30 
A.M.  and  now,  by  popular  demand,  it's 
on  from  6  to  10)    it  fascinates  him. 

"On  Pulse,"  he  said,  "we  get  into  every- 
thing, meet  and  talk  with  all  kinds  of 
people,  doing  all  kinds  of  things.  Deep- 
sea  divers.  Airplane  pilots.  Captains  of 
ships.  Doctors.  Nurses.  Politicians.  Pro- 
prietors of  luncheonettes.  Members  of  the 
Police  Force.  Artists  and,"  he  grinned, 
"models.  The  assorted  information  you 
pick  up  is  amazing  such  as,  for  instance, 
that  the  sandwiches  most  in  demand  by 
teenagers  who  patronize  luncheonettes  are 
Wheaties  on  whole-wheat  bread,  tuna  fish 
and  cream  cheese! 

"On  Pulse,  in  short,  we  kind  of  feel  the 
pulse  of  the  city  of  New  York.  That's 
a  lot  of  pulse — and  it  goes  at  a  rapid  rate. 
Since  the  gimmick  of  hiding  $1000  for 
some  lucky  lass  or  lad  to  find  was  in- 
troduced on  Pulse,  the  show  is  even  more 
exciting.  Our  fan  mail  has  increased 
appreciably  in  volume — and  in  fervor.  I 
get  a  charge  out  of  it,  too,  a  big  one.  I 
sort  of  stand  on  tiptoe  each  week  until 
the  current  $1,000  cache  is  found.  Can't 
wait  to  meet  the  lucky  finders-keepers. 
It's  also  very  gratifying  to  be  able,  as  I 
am,  to  decide  what  and  whom  to  have  on 
the  show,  how  to  handle  the  interviews, 
how  to  present  the  show  as  a  whole." 

Even  arising  at  the  pre-dawn  hour  at 
4  A.M.  is  no  real  hardship  to  William 
Lawrence,  now  that  he  is  awakened  by 
the  dulcet  tones  of  his  wife  instead  of  by 
the  dial  tone,  chillingly  impersonal,  of  a 
clock-radio.  "I  give  myself  two  hours  be- 
fore air-time.  I'm  a  guy,"  Bill  said,  "who 
likes   to   take  his  time   and  plenty   of  it! 

"Ann  gets  up  with  me  every  morning," 
Bill  said  appreciatively,  "at  4  A.M.  Makes 
my  coffee.  Fixes  me  orange  juice,  sliced 
peaches,  anything  I  may  want.  When  I 
leave,  she  goes  back  to  bed.  She's  sleep- 
ing before  I  get  to  the  elevator.  In  other 
words,  the  key  in  the  lock  goes  click!  and 
she  goes,  clunk!  Might  not  be  amiss  to 
call  ours  a  Click  &  Clunk  marriage." 

According  to  Ann,   Bill  is   "wonderful" 

ELVIS  PRESLEY     •     PAT  BOONE 

in  color  in 

JANUARY  TV  RADIO  MIRROR 

on  sale  at  your  newsstand  December  4 


in  the  morning.  "Doesn't  sing,"  she 
laughed,  "but  not  a  grunt  or  groan  out  of 
him,  very  good-natured,  bright  eyed,  fit 
as  a  fiddle.  With  the  show  off  the  air  at 
10  A.M.  he  usually  gets  home  at  eleven, 
has  lunch,  takes  a  three,  sometimes  four 
hour  nap.  Then,  except  on  Wednesdays 
when  he's  on  I've  Got  A  Secret,  we  usually 
take  a  drive  in  the  country  or  have  dinner 
at  home  and  go  to  the  theater,  which 
we've  been  doing  a  great  deal  lately. 
Most  nights,  even  theater  nights,  Bill  is 
in  bed  by  11  or  11:30." 

Bill  is  also  happy  about  his  chore  on 
I've  Got  A  Secret — "which  is  not  a  chore," 
he  said,  "mainly  because  we  all  get  along 
so  well  together,  Garry,  Faye,  Jayne, 
Henry  and  I.  Henry  and  I  are  very  good 
friends.  We're  all  good  friends,  sort  of 
one-for-all  and  all-for-one,  the  five  of 
us.  Whenever  Henry  appears  in  stock,  I 
go  to  see  him.  He  makes  a  point  of  listen- 
ing to  Pulse,  as  well  as  catching  me  on 
any  guest  spot  I  may  do.  When  Jayne 
made  the  Dungaree  Doll  record  with  her 
sister  Audrey,  I  plugged  it  on  Pulse  until 
I  was  asked  to  stop!  When  Faye  was  on 
Broadway  last  winter,  in  a  play,  we  were 
there — in  the  audience.  We  agree  as  one 
man,  the  four  of  us,  Garry  is  the  show. 

"Off-mike,  we  socialize  quite  a  bit,  too. 
Give  'Secret'  parties  for  each  other.  Henry 
gave  one  at  his  place  not  long  ago,  Faye's 
given  one,  Jayne,  too.  Now  it's  my  turn — 
want  to  wait  though,"  Bill  said,  making 
a  funny  face,  "until  the  white  rug  gets 
dirty!" 

For  the  success  he  enjoys  in  radio  and 
on  TV,  Bill  gives  thanks,  and  many  of 
them,  to  the  fans.  "Fans,"  he  said,  "they 
pay  the  freight.  The  minute  you  put  them 
at  a  distance,  your  time  is  up.  This  is 
particularly  true  when  you're  on  TV,  be- 
cause of  the  fact  that  television  fans  feel 
much  closer  to  us  than  movie  fans  feel, 
I  believe,  to  their  favorites.  You  know 
they  do  by  the  way  they  greet  you,  as 
they  would  a  next-door  neighbor  or  one 
of  the  kids  at  school,  with  a  'Hi,  there!' 
None  of  the  idol-worship  thing,  just  real 
pal-sy.  The  reason  for  this  is  that  whereas 
they  go  to  theaters  and  see  the  movie 
stars,  we  in  television  go  to  them  in  their 
homes,  are  with  them,  shoes  off,  in  their 
living  rooms.  And  whereas  they  may  see 
their  favorite  screen  stars  once,  twice, 
three  times  a  year,  we're  with  them  once 
or  twice  a  week,  some  of  us  every  day 
or  evening  in  the  week.  We're  familiar 
with  them,  part  of  the  family  circle,  you 
might  say.  This  much  I  know,  the  day 
I  think  I  don't  want  anything  to  do  with 
the  fans,  try  to  dodge  giving  them  auto- 
graphs, try  eeling  out  of  side  doors  to 
avoid  them — I  better  have  money  in  the 
bank!" 

Nothing  that  can  be  put  in  a  sock,  hung 
on  a  tree  or  wrapped  in  tinselly  ribbon  to 
ask  for;  everything  that  doesn't  come  in 
packages  already  his  .  .  . 

"This  doesn't  mean,"  Bill  said,  "that  the 
holiday  spirit  is  not  in  me.  It  is.  And  it 
glows — very  much  like  those  Christmas 
tree  lights  I  got  at  Lord  &  Taylor  last 
year,  the  kind  that  go  off  and  on,  like 
stars  winking.  I'm  a  bug  on  the  Thanks- 
giving turkey  and  pumpkin  pie  ritual. 
I'm  a  bug  on  trees,  on  trimming  the  place 
with  Christmas  greens.  A  bug,  above  all, 
on  being  at  home  on  Thanksgiving  and 
on  Christmas  Day.  Don't  like  going  out 
to  parties,  just  home. 

"And  if,  having  everything,  I  don't  want 
anything,  it's  because  I  never  want  any- 
thing— although  I  might  be  terribly  hurt, 
of  course,  if  I  didn't  get  something!  Actu- 
ally, though,  I  get  so  embarrassed  when 
given  a  present.  Wouldn't  like  to  be  a 
contest  winner.  The  reason,  I  think,  is 
that  I  don't  like  to  get  something  for 
nothing." 

How  does  he  know?    He  never  has. 


ENJOY  A  PERMANENT, 
kBIG  PAY  CAREER  as  a 

i\  PRACTICAL 
NURSE 


EARN  AT  HOME  WHILE  LEARNING 

FREE  SAMPLE  LESSON  shows  how  easily  you  can 
become  a  professionally  trained  practical  nurse 
by  home  study  in  a  short  time.  NO  HIGH 
SCHOOL   NEEDED.   No   age   limit. 

FOR  FREE  LESSON  and 
FULL  INFORMATION 


Post  Graduate  Hospital 
School    of    Nursing 
9D126  Auditorium   Bldg. 
Chicago   5,    Illinois 


Name. 


Address. 
City 


.State | 

_— _J 


P0FMS  WANTED 

W  Llf  III     For  musical  setting  .    .    .   Send 
5^«».7fT.J^T!,  ™^^     y°ur    Poems    today    for    FREE 

LXAMINATION:     Any     subject.     Immediate     consideration. 

CROWN  MUSIC  C0..1476-L  Broadway,  New  York  36.N.Y. 


High  School  Course 

at  Home 


Many  Finish  in  2  Years 

_o  as  rapidly  as  yoor  time  and  abilities  permit.  Equivalent  to  resi- 
dent school  work— prepares  for  college  entrance  exams.  Standard 
H.  S.  texts  supplied.  Diploma  awarded.  Credit  for  H.  S.  subjects 
completed.  Single  subjects  if  desired.  Ask  for  Free  Bulletin. 

American  School,  Dept.  H953,  Drexel  at  58th,  Chicago  37 


AUTHORS: 

TALENT 

GOING  TO 

WASTE? 

COMET  PRESS  BOOKS 


If  you  ore  the  talented  author 
of  an  unpublished  manuscript, 
let  us  help  gain  the  recognition 
you  deserve.  We  will  publish 
your  BOOK— we  will  edit,  design, 
print,  promote,  advertise  and 
self  it!  Good  royalties. 

WRITE  FOR  FREE  COPY  OF 

HOW  TO  PUBLISH  YOUR  BOOK 

Dept.  TG12,  200  Varick  St.,  N.  Y.  14 


^esTfoS'"*""— — — ~ 


LIPS  SORE? 


POCKET  SIZE 


COLO 
|S0REL 


Ee85* 


HIGHER  IN  3 
CANADA 


THIS  AD  IS 
WORTH  MONEY! 

Let  us  show  you  how  to  make  big 
money  in  your  spare  time  by  helping 
us  take  orders  for  magazine  subscrip- 
tions. Write  today  for  FREE  money- 
making  information:  TV  Radio  Mirror, 
205  East  42nd  Street,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 


WHEN  NERVES  MAKE  YOU 
A  "NIGHT-OWL" 

Some  days  are  busy  and  hectic — 
so  crowded,  you  feel  too  tense  to 
sleep  at  bedtime.  Of  course,  you 
don't  want  something  that  "knocks 
you  out"  —  you  want  Miles 
NERVINE.  Miles  NERVINE 
simply  relaxes  you  and  let's  you 
sleep.  Miles  NERVINE  is  used 
by  well  people  who  get  too  tense 
at  times.  Follow  the  label,  avoid  ex- 
cessive use.  Buy  Miles  NERVINE 
— effervescent  tablets  or  liquid — 
at  your  drugstore. 


83 


The  Girl  Who  Got  to  Presley 


(Continued  from  page  28) 
control  love  for  Elvis — took  a  bus  and  went 
to  Memphis,  armed  with  a  notebook  full  of 
.  Presley  clippings  and  pictures.  When  she 
was  promptly  run  down  by  alert  Memphis 
newsmen,  she  said,  "I  thought  if  I  came  to 
Memphis  I  might  become  his  secretary — or 
something."  She  was  rapidly  hustled  back 
to  the  safety  of  her  family  home  by  an 
irate  father.  And,  so  far,  no  other  teen- 
ager has  been  foolish  enough  to  try  so 
direct  an  attack. 

But,  out  of  the  thousands  of  hearts  that 
are  beating  for  Elvis,  one  sirl  did  manage 
to  meet  him  and  become  his  good  friend. 
This  girl  is  eighteen-year-old  June  Juanico 
of  Biloxi,  Mississippi.  Like  the  others,  June 
makes  no  secret  of  her  love  for  Elvis,  and 
her  hope  that  he  will  eventually  marry 
her.  But,  like  all  the  others,  she  is  buck- 
ing an  almost  impossible  situation.  Here's 
how  June's  idyll  with  Elvis  came  about. 
Its  outcome  is  anybody's  guess. 

If  nothing  else,  it  will  give  you  some 
idea  of  the  way  the  newest  teenagers'  rage 
operates,  girl-wise,  and  what  it  means  to  be 
in  love  with  him  and  to  be  one  of  his 
favorites  at  the  peak  of  his  fantastic  suc- 
cess. This  is  not  necessarily  the  story  of 
the  great  love  in  Elvis  Presley's  life.  But  it 
is  the  story  of  one  girl  who  got  through  to 
him  over  a  year  ago  in  Biloxi  .  .  .  June, 
who  became  his  steady  date  in  that  town 
and  was  asked,  according  to  her  mother, 
to  wait  three  years  for  him  until  his  con- 
tract left  him  free  to  marry  her. 

June  is  the  eighteen-year-old  girl  who, 
with  her  mother's  enthusiastic  permission, 
accepted  Elvis's  invitation  to  accompany 
him  on  his  tour  through  Southern  states, 
beginning  in  Miami,  Florida,  and  ending 
in  New  Orleans. 

As  Elvis  Presley  says,  "It's  this  way. 
There  are  at  least  twenty-five  girls  I  date 
regular.  This  is  just  one  of  them."  And  his 
ever-watchful  manager,  Col.  Tom  Parker, 
adds  slyly:  "They  show  up,  sometimes 
eight  at  a  time,  all  claiming  they're  his 
steadies." 

June  Juanico,  the  Girl,  says,  "It  would 
be  nice  if  Elvis  loved  me  as  much  as  I 
love  him.  But  there's  this  other  girl  in 
Memphis  .  .  .  ."  June  is  a  pretty  brunette, 
nicely  contoured,  simply  dressed,  and  by 
no  means  a  screaming  or  fainting-type  of 
fan.  She  has  gone  with  Elvis  for  more  than 
a  year,  she  is  deeply  in  love  with  him,  and 
she  accepts  realistically — but  with  a  certain 
philosophical  sadness — the  fact  that  she 
can  make  no  plans  for  the  future. 

June's  mother,  Mrs.  Mae  Juanico  of 
Biloxi,  announces:  "I  don't  object  to  her 
having  made  the  trip  to  Miami.  He's  a  nice 
boy  and  June  is  a  good  girl.  I  talked  to  his 
parents  and  they  said  Elvis  would  take 
good  care  of  her."  Before  we  go  into  the 
real  story,  however,  let's  set  the  scene,  the 
time  and  place,  the  characters.  .  .  . 

Miami,  Florida,  noted  for  its  hurricanes, 
had  one  not  long  ago  in  the  shuddering, 
gyrating  form  of  Elvis  Presley.  Like  a 
hurricane,  he  is  a  giant  phenomenon.  He 
also  stopped  traffic,  disrupted  the  everyday 
lives  of  twenty  thousand  households  for 
two  days,  and  caused  the  police  and  fire 
departments  a  walloping  headache.  Not 
only  that:  He  got  about  as  much  coverage 
in  the  local  press  as  any  respectable  hurri- 
cane could  hope  for. 

This  is  how  it  came  about.    There  is  a 

wonderful  old  theater  in  Miami,  the  Olym- 

pia,    which    was    the    last    stronghold    of 

T     vaudeville  in  the  nation.   It  still  has  stuffed 

v    peacocks  and  a  ceiling  twinkling  with  fake 

R     stars  in  a  fake  sky,  and  there  is  the  musty 

air  of  the  late  20's  about  it.   Of  late,  it  has 

closed    its    doors    on    occasion,    become    a 

movie  house,  and  even,  according  to  ru- 

84 


mor,  been  considered  as  a  possible  garage. 

But  a  couple  of  weeks  after  Elvis  ap- 
peared on  Steve  Allen's  TV  show — and  Ed 
Sullivan  forthwith  hired  him  for  $50,000— 
the  Olympia  booked  him  in  for  two  days. 
Along  with  Elvis,  they  booked  a  comic 
magician,  a  few  other  acts,  and  some  movie 
shorts.  Once  again,  the  old  Olympia  came 
alive. 

So  did  the  town  of  Miami,  loaded  with 
summer  tourists  but  more  loaded  with 
Elvis  Presley's  fans.  Man,  it  was  crazy. 
From  the  moment  Elvis  rolled  into  town  in 
his  lavender  Lincoln  convertible,  the  teen- 
aged  girls  started  lining  up  at  the  box 
office.  They  brought  sandwiches  in  paper 
bags,  and  the  line  started  at  midnight 
Thursday,  though  his  first  show  would  not 
begin  until  3:30  P.M.  Friday. 

Outside  the  stage  entrance  on  First 
Avenue,  the  milling  throng  filled  the  side- 
walks and  street,  backing  up  rush-hour 
traffic  for  five  blocks  and  requiring  the 
best  efforts  of  ten  police  to  keep  them 
from  crashing  the  theater.  But  one  girl 
got  through — on  Elvis's  special  order. 

She  was  a  brunette,  and  softly  curved 
and  very  pretty,  and  about  eighteen.  She 
went  directly  to  Elvis's  dressing  room, 
where  she  talked  to  him  and  stroked  his 
forehead  while  he  rested  between  acts. 
An  alert  reporter  cornered  her  during  the 
next  Presley  stage  go-round  and,  to  his 
delight,  she  spoke  willingly  of  their  rela- 
tionship. 

"Why,  I'm  June  Juanico  of  Biloxi,  Mis- 
sissippi," she  explained  in  her  soft  South- 
ern voice,  "and  I'm  going  on  this  tour 
with  Elvis.  He  asked  me  to."  The  story,  as 
she  told  it,  is  the  dream  success  story  of 
any  teenager  who  gathers  in  the  crowd 
at  a  stage  door  hoping  to  see  and  maybe 
even  touch  her  idol— but  also  with  the 
glimmering,  spark -like  vision  that  she 
might  be  the  one  to  catch  his  eye,  and  get 
to  know  him   and  win  his  love. 

June  Juanico  had  flipped  over  Elvis's 
records  from  the  time  they  first  began  to 
appear  in  jukeboxes.  She  was  barely 
seventeen  at.  the  time,  a  blue-eyed,  aver- 
age girl  from  an  average  American  family, 
and  Elvis  wasn't  as  popular  then  as  he  is 
now.  Still,  he  was  beginning  to  catch  on 
in  a  big  way.  When  it  was  announced  that 
he  would  appear  at  a  local  theater  in 
Biloxi  (this  was  over  a  year  ago,  re- 
member) June  decided  that  she  would  just 
have  to  go  to  see  him. 

Apparently  a  lot  of  other  girls  had  the 
same  idea,  for  she  had  a  hard  time  getting 
in.  After  the  show,  it  seemed  like  a  good 
idea  to  go  backstage  and  ask  him  for  an 
autograph.  But,  when  she  finally  managed 
to  squeeze  through  the  door,  she  found 
quite  a  crowd  milling  around. 

Of  course,  she  could  have  milled,  too, 
taking  her  chances,  but  her  eye  caught  a 
sign  that  said  "Ladies"  and  she  had  a 
better  idea.  She  simply  went  in  there  and 
waited  until  there  wasn't  any  more  noise 
in  the  corridor.  "And  when  I  went  out," 
she  says,  "there  he  was." 

It's  important  to  point  out  just  here  that 
most  of  Elvis's  fans  are  not  high-school 
girls.  They're  junior-high  girls — twelve, 
thirteen,  up  to  fifteen.  And  Elvis  is  a 
grown  man.  June  was  then,  as  now,  an 
obviously  grown-up  young  lady. 

"Five  minutes  later,"  June  recalls,  "he 
asked  me  to  show  him  the  town,  and  of 
course   I   accepted." 

Biloxi  is  one  of  the  most  famous  of  the 
Gulf  Coast  resort  cities.  June  and  Elvis 
spent  the  small  hours  of  the  morning 
catching  the  shows  at  three  or  four  late 
spots.  "And  by  the  end  of  the  evening," 
June  says,  "I  knew  this  was  it." 

He  had  treated  her  with  charm  and 
courtesy,  as  any  well-brought-up   South- 


ern lad  would  do.  And  he  had  not  hesi- 
tated to  take  her  right  home  when  finally 
she  had  to  suggest  that  it  was  getting  pretty 
late  for  her. 

She  woke  up  the  next  morning  in  love, 
truly  in  love  for  the  first  time.  He'd  said 
he  would  call  her,  so  she  hung  around  the 
house  waiting  for  the  phone  to  ring.  But 
it  didn't,  not  that  day,  nor  the  next  nor  the 
next.  Then  she  knew  it  would  not  ring 
at  all,  for  surely  he  had  gone  home  to 
Memphis  by  now. 

But  of  course  he  would  write.  He 
couldn't  have  been  that  nice  to  her,  so 
unaware  of  the  spark  that  had  leaped  be- 
tween them,  without  ever  saying  anything 
to  her  again.  He  couldn't  just  walk  out  of 
her  life,  cold,  after  such  a  magic  evening . . . 

There  were  no  letters.  Not  a  line  or  a 
word,  for  eight  months.  But  June  is  a 
persistent  girl,  and  she  was  in  love.  As  the 
months  went  by,  and  she  listened  to  his 
records,  and  read  items  about  him  in  the 
paper,  and  was  more  sure  than  ever. 

oo  she  did  what  many  a  girl  in  love  has 
done  before  her,  and  will  do  again  through 
the  centuries.  Into  her  pocket  went  her 
pride,  into  a  suitcase  her  newest  and  pret- 
tiest dresses,  and  off  to  Memphis  went 
June,  chin  out  and  eyes  candid  and  bright 
with    determination. 

She  looked  up  Elvis  Presley.  "And,"  she 
says,  "it  started  all  over  again." 

This  time  he  was  very  honest  with  her. 
Yes,  there  was  a  girl  in  Memphis,  a  miss 
of  nineteen,  whom  he  dated  regularly 
when  he  was  home.  That  didn't  mean  he 
would  marry  her,  because  now  he  had  a 
big  career  coming  up  and  it  would  be  at 
least  three  years  before  he  could  think  of 
marriage.  But  he  was  crazy  about  June, 
too,  and  if  she  wanted  to  go  ahead  on  that 
basis  .   .  . 

She  would  go  ahead  on  that  basis.  "I 
don't  know  if  I'm  first  or  second  in  his 
life,"  she  says  now,  wistfully,  "but  I'm 
happy  to  be  either  one.  He's  a  wonderful 
guy  when  you  get  to  know  him.  I  mean  if 
you  really  know  him.  He's  a  warm  in- 
dividual and  treats  everyone  so  nice." 

It  was  in  August,  just  before  he  started 
his  now  famous  six-cities  Southern  tour 
beginning  in  Miami,  that  he  turned  up 
again  in  Biloxi  with  four  of  his  friends  and 
came  to  June's  house.  He  told  Mrs.  Juanico 
that  he  wanted  June  to  be  with  him,  and 
could  she  come  along  on  the  tour.  She 
could  bring  a  couple  of  friends,  and  it 
would  all  be  very  much  on  the  up  and 
up.    How  about  it? 

Mrs.  Juanico  began  to  worry  a  little. 
She  had  always  trusted  her  level-headed 
daughter.  She  had  grown  to  like  Elvis 
during  the  months  when,  in  Biloxi,  he  had 
dated  no  other  girl  except  June.  But,  as 
Mrs.  Juanico  has  said,  "He  said  he  couldn't 
get  married  for  at  least  three  years,  and  he 
has  asked  her  to  wait  for  him."  That  was 
certainly  an  honorable  statement  of  inten- 
tions.   But  a  six-cities  tour! 

A  lot  of  reporters  and  critics  were  saying 
that  Elvis  put  on  an  obscene  act.  Mrs. 
Juanico  didn't  think  that  was  true  at  all. 
"That's  just  the  boy's  way  of  expressing 
himself,"  she  has  said — and  she  knew  him 
well,  now,  as  a  quiet,  well-mannered, 
warm  and  endearing  fellow  whose  success 
hadn't  changed  him  at  all. 

She  decided  on  an  inter-family  confer- 
ence. She  talked  to  Elvis's  family,  and 
from  them  got  the  reassurance  that  her 
daughter  would  be  perfectly  safe  on  the 
trip,  that  Elvis  would  take  good  care  of 
her.  "All  right,"  she  told  Elvis,  "June 
can  go." 

That  evening,  Elvis  and  his  four  friends 
set  out  for  Miami  in  Elvis's  car.  A  few 
hours  later,  another  car — containing  June, 


. 


a    girlfriend    and    another    boy— followed. 

Naturally,  no  one  was  supposed  to  find 
out  about  June  and  her  party.  With  all 
those  girls  all  over  the  country  identifying 
themselves  as  one  of  Elvis's  innumerable 
dates,  it  would  hurt  to  know  that  he  had 
brought  along  an  eighteen-year-old  favor- 
ite to  keep  him  company  on  his  tour. 
That's  why  he  and  Col.  Parker  had  their 
answers  ready  when  they  were  asked 
about  the  things  June  and  her  mother 
had  said. 

There's  no  doubt  that  Elvis  is  playing  the 
field,  and  that  June  is  over-optimistic 
when  she  figures  there  is  only  one  other 
girl  in  his  life.  "I'm  going  on  the  tour 
with  him  as  far  as  New  Orleans,"  she  said. 
"But,  when  he  goes  back  to  Memphis,  I 
don't  know  what  I'll  do."  She  was  re- 
ferring to  her  competition  there,  of  course. 
Elvis  and  Parker  would  have  you  believe 
that  there  would  be  just  as  much  com- 
petition in  every  city  along  the  way. 

The  truth  is,  June  was  right  in  looking 
forward  to  being  his  steady,  at  least  as  far 
as  Memphis.  Elvis  asked  her  to  come  along 
because  he  knew  he  wouldn't  get  a  chance 
to  date  an  outside  girl  during  his  slam- 
bang  tour.  By  "outside"  is  meant  anyone 
who  isn't  in  his  police-protected  party  it- 
self. He  travels  with  an  entourage  of 
cousins,  boyhood  friends,  and  agents,  just 
as  Sinatra  and  Fisher  always  have,  and  he 
either  has  to  stay  in  his  hotel  suite  or  at 
the  theater.  It's  tough  enough  fighting  his 
way  from  one  place  to  the  other  and  back 
again  without  being  snatched  at  by  the 
shrieking  mobs  of  little  girls. 

So  the  only  way  he  can  have  a  date  on 
such  a  trip  is  to  enclose  her  in  the  pro- 
tected circle  and  keep  her  there.  Of 
course  they  can  never  be  alone,  except  for 
occasional  moments  in  his  dressing  room 
at  the  theater.  But.  it's  better  than  spend- 
ing several  weeks  with  just  a  bunch  of 
other  fellows. 

That's  why  Elvis  probably  will  hence- 
forth limit  his  dates  to  three  or  four  girls — 
if  not  to  the  two  June  believes  in.  With 
him,  now,  it's  a  matter  of  mechanics.  Try- 
ing to  date  twenty-five  girls  would  be 
worse  than  murder:  It  could  ruin  his 
career. 

The  reaction  of  the  local  Miami  press  to 
Elyis  was  hilarious  because  it  was  so 
vehement.     For     at    least     a    decade     in 


Miami,  no  such  downright  poisonous  at- 
tacks have  been  printed  as  were  directed 
at  Elvis.  And  this  in  a  resort  city  noted 
for  its  jaundiced  opinion  of  entertainers. 

One  reporter  shot  a  current-events  quiz 
at  him,  with  questions  about  Suez  and  the 
Andrea  Doria  and  international  politics. 
Elvis  sweated  visibly,  but  he  was  polite 
and  did  his  woeful  best.  "I  don't  hardly 
get  a  chance  to  read  the  papers  any  more," 
he  mumbled.  But,  when  the  reporter  had 
left  to  write  that  Elvis  was  the  dumbest 
gent  he'd  ever  met,  Elvis  said  justifiably, 
"What  was  he  trying  to  prove?  If  I  knew 
all  that  stuff,  I'd  be  doing  his  job." 

Actually,  the  news  attacks  were  ad- 
dressed "more  to  the  audience  of  frantic 
girls  than  to  Presley,  the  man  and  per- 
former. The  critics  were  all  men  with 
twenty  or  thirty  years  of  show-business 
experience  behind  them.  And,  after  all, 
Elvis  was  performing  for  a  bunch  of 
impressionable  youngsters.  The  critics 
couldn't  hear  a  note  he  played  or  sang 
for  the  continuous  shrieking. 

One  reporter  came  up  to  June  Juanico 
as  she  stood  in  the  wings,  smiling  dream- 
ily, jiggling  a  little  in  time  to  Elvis's 
rhythm,  and  asked  her:  "Just  what  is  it 
you  see  in  him?" 

And  she  replied,  "If  you  were  of  the 
opposite  sex,  you  would  know."  Whatever 
he  does,  June  will  like  it — and,  I  suspect, 
so  will  his  other  fans. 

Meantime,  Elvis  has  rapidly  moved  on 
to  a  bigger,  brighter — and  more  fascinating 
future.  In  Hollywood,  he  has  starred  in 
20th  Century-Fox's  "Love  Me  Tender." 
He  has  met  Debra  Paget,  dated  her — and 
Hollywood  is  keeping  an  interested  eye 
on  this  romance.  He  is  being  swept  up  into 
a  national  prominence  that  will  ever  befog 
the  boyish  days  back  in  Tupelo,  Missis- 
sippi. 

So,  for  June  Juanico,  the  worries  in- 
crease. Will  his  old,  steady  Memphis  girl, 
Barbara  Hearn,  be  the  one  girl  Elvis  finally 
returns  to?  Will  June  herself,  by  loyalty 
and  understanding,  win  out?  Or  will  her 
love  be  swept  away  from  her  on  a  re- 
lentless tide  of  success? 

No  matter  what  the  outcome:  Elvis 
Presley,  this  minute,  has  made  the  most 
phenomenal  success  of  1956  or  1957,  and 
in  that  success  June  Juanico  has  played 
a  part. 


My  Father,  Alfred  Hitchcock 


(Continued  from  page  32) 
bullfight  he  attended,  he  left  the  arena 
almost  as  the  bull  came  into  it.  Nor  is  he, 
himself,  immune  from  the  gooseflesh  he 
raises  on  others.  He  has  a  fear  of  police- 
men, amounting  to  a  phobia  .  .  .  which 
dates  back  to  when  he  did  something 
naughty  as  a  small  boy,  and  his  father 
(from  whom  my  father  inherits  his  mor- 
dant sense  of  humor)  sent  him  to  the 
police  station  with  a  note  asking  the 
police  lieutenant  to  "lock  the  boy  up  for 
five  minutes."  The  lieutenant  obliged — 
and  "the  boy"  was  so  badly  frightened 
that,  to  this  day,  he  dislikes  driving  a  car 
because  the  sound  of  a  siren  scares  him. 

"But,"  several  of  his  TV  fans  have  asked 
me,  "isn't  he  kind  of — well,  scary?" 

To  which  the  answer  is:  Only  on  screen, 
never  off;  never  at  home,  where — although 
there's  never  a  dull  moment — ghosts  do 
not  walk  nor  chains  clank,  bodies  are 
never  found  (well,  almost  never)  where 
bodies  have  no  business  to  be.  Nothing 
sinister,  nothing  remotely  scary  ever  hap- 
pens at  home.  On  the  contrary,  my  father 
— who  is  of  a  completely  happy  nature — 
makes  "life  with  father"  a  very  jolly 
affair,  and  gives  one  a  sense  of  security, 


the  feeling  of  being  protected.  On  his  sets, 
he  never  raises  his  voice  above  a  whisper. 
And,  at  home,  he  speaks  quietly.  He  is  a 
soothing  man.  A  cozy  man  .  .  . 

And  a  family  man  of  great  devotion.  He 
dearly  loves  my  mother.  And  me.  And  my 
two  small  daughters,  Mary,  who  is  V-k,  and 
Terry,  who  is  2.  And  Phillip  Magnesia, 
his  miniature  Sealyham.  He  is  mad  about 
Phillip.  When  he  and  my  mother  re- 
turned recently  from  a  trip  to  Africa — 
where  they  were  scouting  locations  for 
Daddy's  projected  film,  "Flamingo  Feather" 
— Phillip  was  the  only  one  to  whom  he 
brought  presents. 

My  father  loves  his  homes,  both  of 
them:  One  in  Bel  Air,  California;  the  other 
— the  most  fantastic  place  in  the  world — 
on  a  high  hill  in  Santa  Cruz,  overlooking 
Monterey  Bay.  If  ever  you  should  drop  in 
on  Daddy  in  the  fabulous  house  on  the 
high  hill,  where  the  winds  blow  strong 
and  the  stars  are  within  hands'  reach,  he 
would  probably  be  wearing  a  coverall 
made  of  heavy  black  brocaded  silk,  with 
lapels  (almost  like  a  pair  of  pajamas — 
with  the  "Hitchcock  touch").  He  would 
look  very  much  as  "the  master  of  the 
macabre"    is   supposed   to   look.   However, 


Can't  Get  Rid  of 
Dark  or  Discolored  Skin, 

.Freckles,  Skin  Spots? 


HERE'S  HELP!  Mercolized  Wax  Cream 
7  NIGHT  PLAN  Lightens, 
Beautifies  Skin  WhileYou  Sleep 

Just  follow  the  famous  Mercolized  Wax 
Cream  7  Night  Plan  to  a  whiter,  smoother, 
lovelier  skin.  Smooth  rich,  luxurious  Mer- 
colized Wax  Cream  on  your  face  or  arms 
just  before  retiring  each  night  for  one  week. 
You'll  begin  to  see  results  almost 
at  once  .  .  .  lightens  dark  skin, 
blotches,  spots,  freckles  as  if  by 
magic!  This  is  not  a  cover  up  cos- 
metic; Mercolized  Wax  Cream 
works  UNDER  the  skin  surface. 
J  i 


Lightens  dark 
skin  and  ugly 
spots  almost 

overnight 


Beautiful  women  have  used  this 
time-tested  plan  for  over  40  years  — you'll 
love  it's  fast,  sure,  longer  lasting  results! 
Mercolized  Wax  Cream  is  sold  on  100%  guar- 
antee or  money  back.    Start  using  it  nowl 

MERCOLIZED  WAX  CREAM 

At  All  Drug  and  Cosmetic  Counters 


mo 

^*Your 
Child's 
Photo 


HUNDREDS  OF  DOLLARS  PAID. 

each  month  by  advertisers  for  boys  &  girls 
pictures  (6  mo.  to  18  yrs.)  for  TV.Calendar  & 
Magazine  ads.  Your  child  has  same  opportu- 
nity. Send  ONE  (1)  small  photo  for  approval. 
Print  child'?  and  mothers  name  and  address 
on  back.  Returned  in  20  days  with  report. 
NO  OBLIGATION. 

HOLLYWOOD   SPOTLITE,   Dept.  AL 
1611    No.    La   Brea,    Hollywood.   Calif. 


WANT  JO  BE 
A  PRACT/CW 


^,    .  .     -  "ACT  NOW -HELP  FILL  THE  NEED 

I^Q)3L  Now  you  can  prepare  for  practical  experience 
■asa  Practical  Nurse  in  spare  time.  Many 
earn  while  learning.  Ages   18  to  55.  High 
'school  not  necessary.  Easy  payments.  Write 
for  free  information  and  sample  lesson  pages. 
WAYNE  SCHOOL  OF  PRACTICAL  NURSING 

2525  Sheffield  Ave.,  Desk  E-S8.  CHICAGO  14.  ILL. 


SAVE$7.20onNORELCO 

MEN'S  ELECTRIC  SHAVER  . .  . 

Latest  model,  brand  new  and  fully 

guaranteed.  Complete  with  case,  cord 

and  cleaning  brush.  Regularly  retails 

at  $24.95.   Our  price   $17.75   postage 

•a^/    paid.  All  orders  filled  within  24  hours. 

^@$f  Your  money  back    if   you   are   not  fully 

*    satisfied.  Send  check  or  money  order  to: 

wa»-       JOHN  BROOKS,  Dept.  256,  Box  212,  St.  Louis  3,  Mo. 


ADVANCE 
ROYALTY 


o.Myj.i.H.H 


iOTHE  WRITER 
OFBESTSONG 

SELECTED 
EACH  MONTH 


Send    your    songs    or    poems    today. 
Music   composed   for   your   words.    Re- 
cords  and   copies  furnished.  Let  us  try 
1  to  help  you  be  a   success  in  this  field. 

HOLLYWOOD  TUNESMITHS 

1609  Vistt  Del  Mar.  OepLD,         Hollywood  28.  Caul 


How 

to. 


MAKE  MONEY  with' 
Simple  CARTOONS' 


book  everyone  who  likes  to  draw 
should  have.  It  is  free;  no 
obligation.  Simply  address 


FREE 
BOOK 


UARTOONISTS'   EXCHANGE 
Dept.  S912  Pleasant  Hill.  Ohio 


.^ENLARGEMENT 

v  *  ^-<  of  your  7-ai/o/<r?e  Photo 


FROM  FAMOUS  HOLLYWOOD  FILM  STUDIOS 
Just  to  get  acquainted,  we  will 
make  you  a  beautiful  5x7  black 
,  and  white  enlargement  of  any 
l>  snapshot,  photo  or  negative.  Also 
»3  be  sure  to  include  color  of  hair, 
eyes  and  clothing,  and  get  our 
Air  Mail  Bargain  Offer  for  hav- 
ing vour  enlargement  beautifully 
1  hand-colored  in  oil  and  mounted 
tt  handsome  frame.  Limit  2  to  a  customer 
Please  enclose  10c  to  cover  cost  of  handling  and 
mailing  each  enlargement.  Original  returned.  We 
will  pay  $100.00  for  children's  or  adults  pictures 
used  in  our  advertising.  Act  NOW! 

Offer  limited  to  U.S.A.  only 

HOLLYWOOD  FILM  STUDIOS,  Dept.  F-290 

7021    Santa    Monica    Blvd.,    Hollywood    38.    Calif. 


fiffli 


85 


the  prosy  fact  is  that  Daddy  wears  this 
curious  garment  (of  his  own  design)  to 
sit  around  the  house  in,  to  be  comfortable 
in,  to  loll  in.  As  a  "loller,"  my  father  is 
without  serious  competition! 

He  is  the  hardest  person  in  the  world  to 
buy  presents  for,  because  he  doesn't  do 
anything.  He  doesn't  play  golf.  Or  tennis. 
Or  croquet.  Or  bridge.  Or  Scrabble.  Or  do 
crossword  puzzles.  He  doesn't  work  in  the 
garden.  He  doesn't  fish.  He  loves  classical 
music,  and  can  whistle  practically  all  of 
the  classics  from  start  to  finish,  but  he 
doesn't  play  an  instrument  of  any  kind. 
Nor  sing.  Although  he  has,  of  necessity- 
considering  his  radical  changes  in  weight 
(in  one  year  he  took  off  a  hundred  pounds) 
— suits  for  various  weights,  he  is  not  in 
the  least  clothes  conscious. 

Being  a  gourmet,  he  does  like  to  cook, 
mostly  French  dishes,  of  which  poulet  en 
cocotte  is  his  self-avowed  chef  d'oeuvre. 
But,  although  indifferent  to  clothes  for 
himself,  he  is  quite  the  opposite  where  my 
mother  is  concerned.  Daddy  often  shops  for 
her.  Goes  off  by  himself,  sees  things  in 
windows,  and  has  them  sent  home.  And 
they're  always  perfect  in  fit,  color  and 
style.  He  likes  to  browse  around  and  find 
good  things  for  his  houses,  too.  Nor  does 
his  taste  run  to  the  macabre — although  I 
must  admit  that  his  prize  possession  (it 
hangs  on  the  wall  of  his  den  in  the  Bel 
Air  house)  is  the  original  of  a  New 
Yorker  cartoon  by  Charles  Addams,  an- 
other specialist  in  the  field  of  macabre 
humor.  It  shows  a  film  audience  laughing 
unroariously  at  a  picture,  though  one 
woman  in  the  center  is  not  laughing — nor 
even  smiling.  She  is  Mona  Lisa. 

Loving  to  loll  as  he  does,  it's  paradoxical 
that  Daddy  also  loves  to  make  what  are 
called  his  "globe-trotting"  movies.  Such  as 
"Foreign  Correspondent,"  made  in  Hol- 
land; "Notorious,"  in  Rio  de  Janeiro;  "The 
Man  Who  Knew  Too  Much,"  in  North 
Africa;  "Secret  Agent,"  in  Switzerland; 
"The  Trouble  With  Harry,"  in  Vermont; 
and,  of  course,  the  forthcoming  "Flamingo 
Feather,"  again  in  Africa.  (Right  now,  he's 
filming  "From  Amongst  the  Dead,"  with 
James  Stewart — who  made  the  previous 
trek  with  him  for  "The  Man  Who  Knew 
Too  Much."  Only  when  the  script  offers 
no  possible  excuse  for  taking  ship  or  plane 
does  he  "settle  down  on   a  sound-stage." 

His  love  of  the  sea  is,  I'm  sure,  what 
motivates  his  globe-trotting.  As  a  small 
boy,  his  favorite  pastime  was  sticking  pins 
in  a  map  of  the  world,  following  the  com- 
ings and  goings  of  Britain's  merchant 
marine.  And,  every  time  Mama  and  I 
travelled  to  or  from  England  with  him,  we 
thought  that,  by  fair  means  or  foul,  he  was 
going  to  guide  the  ship  in.  He  loves  the 
sea — perhaps  because  of  its  lolling  action. 
However,  with  the  exception  of  cooking, 
his  occasional  shopping  expeditions  for 
Mama,  and  globe-trotting,  he  is  physically 
not  active — to  understate  the  matter.  He 
reads  a  lot,  mostly  non-fiction  best-sellers. 
No  whodunits  or  mysteries  of  any  kind, 
because  of  his  fear  of  unconscious  plagiar- 
ism. For  the  same  reason,  he  stays  away 
from  movies  and  dials  out  TV  shows  of  the 
type  which  could  be  considered  "in  his 
field."  He  loves  to  watch  TV,  though— 
especially  Phil  Silvers.  He  loves  Phil 
Silvers.  We  all  do.  But,  mostly,  he  spends 
his  leisure  time  talking  with  my  mother, 
with  my  husband  and  me,  and  with  such 
friends  as  Joe  Cotten  and  his  wife,  Cary 
and  Betsy  Grant,  the  Bob  Cummings— 
and  with  his  grandchildren. 

Daddy  always  treats  children  as  if  they 

T    were    his    own    age.    From    time    remem- 

v    bered,  we  have  always  been  a  very  close 

R    family,  the  three  of  us.  Mama  and  Daddy 

have  been  more  like  friends  than  parents. 

My  first  conscious  memory  of  my  father 

is,  I've  often  thought,  what  set  the  key  to 

oo 


the  relationship  I  was  to  share  with  him. 

I  was  five,  possibly  six,  when  I  came 
down  the  stairway  of  our  home  in  Surrey, 
England,  one  Christmas  morning,  on  tiptoe 
with  excitement  to  see  what  Santa  Claus 
had  brought  me.  The  base  of  the  great 
tree  in  the  living  room  was  piled  with 
toys  of  every  sort  and  kind,  but  dominating 
them  all  was — a  doll's  house!  A  doll  house 
taller  than  I,  beautifully  furnished,  com- 
plete with  a  family.  Mother,  father,  chil- 
dren, a  nurse,  and  even  a  dog  by  the  front 
door  and  a  pussycat  dozing  by  the  hearth! 
By  the  doll  house  knelt  my  father.  When 
I  sat  down  beside  him,  these  dolls  be- 
came— as  he  manipulated  and  spoke  for 
them — real  people.  They  moved  about,  per- 
forming their  various  duties.  They  talked, 
they  laughed,  they  cried.  They  became 
involved  in  situations  which  I've  now  for- 
gotten, but  some  must  have  been  funny, 
because  I  do  remember  laughing  aloud  and 
feeling  chills  of  excitement.  I  was  watch- 
ing—though I  wasn't  aware  of  it  then — 
the  master  of  horror  and  humor  (for  he 
blends  the  two)   at  work. 

When  Daddy  and  Mama  went  to  the 
theater,  they  always  took  me.  They  took 
me  with  them  everywhere,  in  fact.  They 
included  me  in  almost  everything  they 
talked  about — not  excepting  Daddy's  work. 
My  father  still  discusses  with  my  mother 
everything  from  the  inception  of  an  idea 
for  a  movie  or  TV  show,  right  down  to  the 
final  take.  It's  natural  that  he  should  dis- 
cuss his  work  with  Mama,  because,  when 
they  first  met,  she  was  the  chief  film  editor 
of  the  company  in  London  with  which 
Daddy  started  out  as  a  title  writer.  ("I 
married  my  boss,"  Daddy  always  says.) 
But  I,  too,  sat  in  on  "conferences,"  was 
asked  for  my  opinion,  and  was  listened  to 
with  respect.  As  a  child  in  England  and, 
later,  in  Hollywood,  I  was  always  on  the 
set  when  Daddy  was  making  a  film. 

My  father  doesn't  discuss  problems  with 
my  mother — or  with  anyone  else — because 
he  rarely  has  any.  Daddy  has  the  most 
orderly  bureau,  desk  drawers,  and  clothes 
closets,  of  any  man  or  woman  I  have  ever 
known.  At  work,  as  at  home,  he  is  com- 
pletely organized.  Before  a  camera  turns 
on  a  sound  stage,  either  movie  or  TV,  he 
knows  precisely  what  he  is  going  to  do, 
and  when  and  where — and  how  and  also 
why.  His  story  has  been  condensed,  to 
a  single  typewritten  page.  His  scenes  have 
been  plotted  and  an  exact  picture  drawn 
(by  his  own  hand)  for  each  scene,  with 
everything,  including  the  lighting,  clearly 
described.  It  is  said  of  him  that  he  has 
never  been  known  to  look  through  a 
camera  because  he  knows  so  well  what  he 
will  see.  He  is  so  sure  of  each  detail — 
where  each  actor  will  stand,  what  he  or 
she  will  wear,  and  say.  What  is  known  as 
the  "Hitchcock  touch"  is  thoroughness. 

He  is  also  the  most  controlled  man  I 
have  ever  known.  When  he  dieted  off  one 
hundred  pounds  in  a  year,  he  simply 
allowed  himself  a  piece  of  meat  for  lunch, 
one  for  dinner,  and  only  black  coffee  for 
breakfast.  Others  might  keep  to  this  for 
three  weeks  or  perhaps  three  months,  but 
he  did  it  for  a  yearl  Of  the  cigars  he  loves, 
he  smokes  two  a  day — no  more,  no  less. 
Nor  does  he  ever  lose  his  temper,  be  the 
provocation  what  it  may.  His  sets  are  quiet. 
As  I  said  before,  he  seldom  raises  his 
voice  above  a  whisper.  He  never  speaks 
harshly  to  an  actor,  or  disparagingly  of 
him.  As  he  recently  told  a  reporter:  "We 
try  not  to  use  up  all  our  drama  on  the 
set.  We  like  to  get  it  into  the  picture.  There 

a  host  of  hosts  .  .  . 

Hal  March  •  Arthur  Godfrey 
Jack  Bailey  •  Ralph  Edwards 

in  JANUARY  TV  RADIO  MIRROR 

on  sale  at  your  newsstand  December  4 


is  nothing  for  actors  to  worry  about,  as 
long  as  they  do  just  what  I  tell  them." 

When,  in  my  early  teens,  I  first  men- 
tioned that  I  wanted  to  be  an  actress, 
Daddy's  only  comment  was:  "If  you're 
to  be  an  actress,  be  an  intelligent  one." 

I  now  know  what  he  meant  by  that, 
too.  Stupid  people  annoy  him.  He  has 
such  a  completely  amiable,  live-and-let- 
live  nature,  I  think  the  only  thing  that 
really  annoys  him  is  when  people  who 
have  good  minds  don't  use  them,  or  tal- 
ented people  who  don't  perfect  their  talents 
or  who  misuse  them  by  being  "difficult," 
tempermental,  or  egotistical — which  he 
considers  equally  stupid. 

I  know  that  he  admires  and  enjoys  work- 
ing with  Henry  Fonda,  Cary  Grant, 
Jimmy  Stewart,  Grace  Kelly,  Bob  Cum- 
mings, Joseph  Cotten  and  Vera  Miles — not 
only  because  they  are  exceptionally  fine, 
sensitive  and  dependable  performers,  but 
also  because  they  are  equally  fine,  sensitive 
and  stable  people.  He  calls  them  "be- 
lievable  people." 

His  great  flair  is,  of  course,  for  placing 
believable  people  in  unbelievable  situa- 
tions, for  turning  the  commonplace  into  the 
sinister.  In  "Shadow  of  a  Doubt,"  for  in- 
stance, which  starred  Joseph  Cotten  and 
Teresa  Wright,  the  uncle  of  the  small- 
town family  featured  in  the  film — a  kindly, 
good-natured  fellow — turned  out  to  be  a 
desperate  murderer! 

Daddy  also  enjoys  turning  the  sinister 
into  the  commonplace,  or  comical.  In  "The 
Trouble  With  Harry,"  as  you  may  recall, 
Harry  was  dead — but  no  tears  were  shed. 
As  a  body,  he  provided  the  comedy  relief. 
When  someone  said  of  Daddy  that  "by 
some  subtle  power  of  suggestion"  he  has 
managed,  on  his  TV  shows,  to  make  a 
shrunken  head  seem  as  homey  as  an  old 
eggbeater,  a  baby  carriage  as  ominous  as  a 
time  bomb,  Daddy  couldn't  have  been  more 
pleased.  Of  himself,  he  has  said,  "If  I 
should  make  a  'Cinderella,'  the  audience 
would  be  looking  for  a  body  in  the  coach!" 

His  love  of  the  paradoxical,  the  perverse, 
never  shows  to  better  advantage  than  in 
the  supercilious  stare  he  gives  his  TV 
viewers  and  in  the  sharp  remarks  with 
which  he  needles  the  sponsor.  That  the 
customers  love  it  is  proven  by  the  gratify- 
ing way  in  which  they  are  buying  the 
poor,  put-upon  sponsors'  products;  it  fol- 
lows that  the  sponsors  love  it,  too. 

If  I  were  obliged  to  describe,  in  a  few 
words,  my  father  as  he  is  at  home — I  would 
say  that  he  looks,  behaves  and  is  very 
much  the  way  he  appears  on  his  TV  shows. 
The  truth  is,  he  took  his  personality  from 
home  and  put  it  on  the  television  screen! 
The  result  has  been  gratifying  to  the 
sponsors — and  astonishing  to  Daddy.  After 
thirty  years  of  making  movies  (with  ap- 
pearances, however  brief,  in  each  of  them) , 
he  was  seldom  recognized  in  public.  But 
it  took  only  a  few  months  of  exposure  on 
television  to  make  him  a  celebrity  of  the 
kind  bobby-soxers  besiege  for  autographs. 

However,  that  he  should  be  a  target  for 
teenagers,  at  the  age  of  56  ("and  losing  my 
hair") ,  couldn't  happen  to  a  more  apprecia- 
tive man. 

Being  human,  my  father  must  have 
faults — one,  at  any  rate.  But  I  can't  think 
what  it  is,  unless  it  is  that  he  makes  puns 
and  is  pleased  to  have  you  do  likewise. 
Upon  his  return  from  Africa  a  few  weeks 
ago,  I  greeted  him  with  a  wire  which  read: 
"Welcome  to  a  Happy  Automobile!"  (In- 
terpretation: Happy  automobile — a  merry 
car.    Hence:    Welcome  to  America!) 

While  visiting  Victoria  Falls  in  Africa, 
Dad  slipped  and  fell  on  his  arm — "and 
decided,"  he  told  me,  "that  the  place  should 
be  named  Hitchcock  Falls!" 

This  seems  as  fitting  a  tag  as  any  to  my 
tale  of  life  with  my  father,  Alfred  Hitch- 
cock! 


Ov)  e  auiijul   cflair 

E      C 


K 


THERE  ARE  THREE  BRECK  SHAMPOOS 
FOR    THREE     DIFFERENT     HAIR     CONDITIONS 

Beautiful  hair  has  natural  softness  and  lustre.  A  Breck  Shampoo 
will  help  bring  out  the  natural  beauty  of  your  hair.  There  are 
Three  Breck  Shampoos.  One  Breck  Shampoo  is  for  dry  hair. 
Another  Breck  Shampoo  is  for  oily  hair.  A  third  Breck  Shampoo 
is  for  normal  hair.  The  next  time  you  buy  a  shampoo,  select 
the  Breck  Shampoo  for  your  individual  hair  condition.  A 
Breck  Shampoo  leaves  your  hair  soft,  fragrant  and  lustrous. 


The  Three  Breck  Shampoos  are  available  at  Beauty  Shops,  Drug  Stores,  Department  Stores  and  wherever  cosmetics  are  sold. 

MANUFACTURING  CHEMISTS 

SAN         FRANCISCO  •  LOS 

Copyright  1956  by  John  H.  Breck  Inc. 


JOHN  H  BRECK  INC 

NEW        YORK  •  CHICAGO 


SPRINGFIELD 
ANGELES 


3  MASSACHUSETTS 

OTTAWA  CANADA 


That  Ivory  Took 

so  clear. . .  so  fresli. . .  so  easily  yours 


W-:» 


costs  less  than  the  rest5 

4  cakes  of  Personal  Size  Ivory 

cost  about  the  same  as  3  cakes 

of  other  leading  toilet  soaps. 

It's  like  getting  a  cake  free. 

99  /'Xo%pia-e . . .  it  floats 


i  IVORY 

iVQRyH 


MVORY 


Prettiest  at  the  party — this  tiny  mics  with 
That  Ivory  Look.  Wouldn't  you  love  to 
have  it,  too?  Then  remember,  the  milder 
your  soap,  the  prettier  your  complexion — 
and  Ivory  is  mild  enough  for  a  baby's  skin. 
Advised  by  more  doctors  for  complexion 
care  than  any  other  soap. 


Dazzling  at  the  dance — That  Ivory  Look  is 
so  radiantly  bright  and  clear.  Why  not 
change  to  regular  care  with  pure,  gentle 
Ivory  today?  Let  the  magic  of  mildness 
work  this  same  enchantmenf  for -you — give 
you  that  dazzling,  fresh  look — 
That  Ivory  Look! 


More  doctors  stdvise  Ivory  than  any  other  soap 


L'BRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  020  514  128  5 


tfKi 


nio     •',»;>- 


Utvs 


■  ■ 


■ 


i  .  r 


tin 


Us?  rciyWH-?.  ;•.'.' 


I  ■ 
'i  ','■' 

rjtpr 


I    ".'fy"> 


reft*: 


