tlrtltP---V 


'Vv-i-tyi"..'.:. 


m^^^ 
^^^m- 


:,'*'.5t-S 


Scanned  from  the  collections  of 
The  Library  of  Congress 


AUDIO-VISUAL  CONSERVATION 
at  The  LIBRARY  .»f  CONGRESS 


^^^^k^^9^^|29^^^^^^^ 

ir-l'   ijll^ 

..^' 

..  ^,      JL 

Packard  Campus 
for  Audio  Visual  Conservation 
www.loc.gov/avconservation 

Motion  Picture  and  Television  Reading  Room 
www.loc.gov/rr/mopic 

Recorded  Sound  Reference  Center 
www.loc.gov/rr/record 


^VBUSHEWS   BJA/0»wr. 


10  MIRROR 


RAniO 

MIRROR 


NEW! 


Speaks  Out 

• 

Ralph  Edwards' 
NIGHTMARE 

ANNIE  OAKLEY 
Western  Charmer 


Hal 

and 

Candy 

March 


«-SS2^^« 


I 


t--J 


,M 


# 


That  Ivory  Ijook 

so  cleair. . .  so  fresh.. . .  so  easily  yours 


A  baby's  loveliest  gift  is  That  Ivory  Look  —  a  look  you,  too,  can  have 

through  the  magic  of  Ivory's  mildness.  You  see,  the  milder  your  soap, 

the  prettier  your  complexion.  That's  why  regular  care  with  pure,  mild 

Ivory  leaves  your  skin  so  clear — fresh — endearingly  lovely.  It's  such 

a  pretty  look — That  Ivory  Look  —  such  an  easy  look  for  you  to  have. 


99  tkioXpicre  ...it  floats 


Wash  your  face  regularly  with 
pure,  mild  Ivory.  Mild  enough 
for  baby's  skin — so  right  for 
your  complexion. 


More  doctors  a^dvise  Ivory  ttian  axiy  oliier  soap 


/^£^^^^ 


Are  you  ever 


^tit^... 


wV^wlfj^.  #  ««# 


That's  when 

most  deodorants  fail . . .  but 

new  Mum  cream  keeps  working 

You^ve  probably  noticed  ... 

.  .  .  when  you're  under  emotional  pressure,  your  perspira- 
tion glands  suddenly  get  more  active.  That's  when  deodor- 
ants which  depend  on  stopping  perspiration  let  you  down, 
and  odor  often  starts. 

New  Mum®  cream  works  a  completely  different  way.  It  is 
the  only  leading  deodorant  that  works  entirely  by  stopping 
odor.  Mum  keeps  on  working  actively  to  stop  odor  24  hours 
a  day— no  matter  how  active  your  perspiration  glands  are. 

No  wonder  Mum  is  so  dependable.  Isn't  that  what  you  want? 


More  people  depend  on  Mum 


Guarameedb;^  fhttn  OH  ttnv  otkeT  deodorant 

Good  Housekeeping  7  "^ 

:^^x     ,..it  works  when  others  fail 


ANOTHER   FINE   PRODUCT    OF    BRISTOL-MYERS 


j/CfRTinEP^a 

^^/kind  to  skin  and  clothes 


LOOK. J 


wnats  new 
in  eye  beauty ! 

Look  prettier— through 
curly  lashes  in  just 
seconds— with  the  new 
soft-cushjon 

'  PROFESSIONAL 

EYELASH    CURLER 
I     naturally, 
h\     it's  the  best . . 
_  •     gold  plated 

Molded  Cushion  refill,  only  |0^ 

You  must  try  the  wonderful  new 
'  AUTOMATIC 

EYEBROW  PENCIL 

never  needs  sharpening 
—spring-locked  crayon 
can't  fall  out ... 
Velvet  Black,  Dark  or 
Light  Brown,  and  now  in 
Dove  Grey  Or  Auburn  .  .  . 
39<^  for  two  long-last  ing  refills 

Tweeze  with  ease-with  the  new  isilvery 

EYEBROW  TWEEZERS 

designed  with  a  grip  that 
can't  slip— straight      _ 
or  slant  edge  .  .  .     29^ 

Last  but  not  least— the  world-famous 

'mascara 

for  long,  dark,  velvety 
lashes— Solid  Form  in 
gorgeous  gold-plated 
vanity  case  —  or  Cream 
Form  in  smart  kit 

SPECIAKSTS    !N    EYE    BEAUTY 


TV 


MIADIO 
MIRROR 


JANUARY,  1957 


ATLANTIC    EDITION 


VOL.  47,  NO.  2 


Ann  Higginbotham,  Editorial  Director 
Ann  Mosher,  Editor  Jack  Zasorin,  .4r«  Director 

Teresa  Buxton,  Managing  Editor  Frances  Maly,  Associate  Art  Director 

Claire  Safran,  Associate  Editor  Joan  Clarke,  Art  Assistant 

Dick  Sheppard,  Assistant  Editor  Bud  Goode,  West  Coast  Editor 


PEOPLE  ON  THE  AIR 

What's  New  From  Coast  to  Coast by  Peter  Abbott  4 

Thirty  Years  at  NBC 8 

This  Is  Where  It  All  Began  (Hal  March) by  Maxine  Arnold  16 

Let's  Talk  With  Arthur  Godfrey by  Martin  Cohen  22 

Shiny  New  Penny  (Rosemary  Prinz) by  Frances  Kish  24 

Gifts  of  the  Heart  (Jack  Bailey) by  Dora  Albert  26 

Peter  Donat's  Brightest  Day by  Marie  Haller  28 

A  Song  for  Robert  Q.  (Judy  Johnson) by  Gregory  Merwin  44 

Hero  at  Home  (Richard  Coogan) by  Mary  Temple  46 

Ralph  Edwards'  Nightmare by  John  Maynard  48 

Valiant  Lady  (picture  story  from  the  beloved  daytime  serial) 50 

Garry  Moore  Sends  'Em  to  Portugal 54 


FEATURES  IN  FULL  COLOR 

They  Swoon  for  Pat  Boone by  Gladys  Hall  32 

Elvis  Presley  on  the  Upbeat by  Eunice  Field  34 

Golden  Girl  (Annie  Oakley) .....by  Bud  Goode  38 

Christmas  With  Stars 

(a  party  for  My  True  Story  and  Whispering  Streets) 40 


YOUR  LOCAL  STATION 

Tempest  at  the  Turntable  (WAVZ) 6 

Tip-Off  on  Hy  Gardner  (WRCA-TV) 10 

Moovin'  and  Groovin'  (WKBW) 14 

Speaking  of  Sheldon  (WRCA-TV,  WABD) 57 

He  Gets  the  Vote  (KDKA) 58 


YOUR  SPECIAL  SERVICES 

Information  Booth 7 

TV  Radio  Mirror  Goes  to  the  Movies by  Janet  Graves  12 

Can  I  Help  You? by  Joan  Davis  15 

Beauty:  Patti  Page  Likes  Cake by  Mary  Parker  Sherwood  56 

New  Patterns  for  You  (smart  wardrobe  suggestions) 72 

New  Designs  for  Living  (needlecraft  and  transfer  patterns) 80 

Cover  portrait  of  Candy  and  Hal  March  by  D.  C.  Gunn — Graphic  House 


BUY  YOUR  FEBRUARY  ISSUE  EARLY  •  ON  SALE  JANUARY  3 


V«,    EXECUTIVE,      ADVERTISING      AND      EDI- 
^^TORIAL      OFFICES      at      205      East      42nd 
Street,    New  York,   N.    Y.    Editorial   Branch 
.  Office:    6269    Selma    Ave,.    Hollywood    28, 
Calif.     Irving     S.     Manheimer,     President; 
,      Lee      Andrews,      Vice      President:      Meyer 
*^l/t*^        Dworhin,   Secretary  and  Treasurer.   Adver- 
tising:  offices   also   in   Chicago,    221    North 
LaSalle  Street,   and  San  Francisco. 

SUBSCRIPTION  RATES:  $3.00  one  year,  U.  S.  and 
Possessions  and  Canada.  $5.00  per  year  for  all  other 
countries. 

CHANGE  OF  ADDRESS:  6  weeks'  notice  essential. 
When  possible,  please  furnish  stencil  impression  ad- 
dress from  a  recent  issue.  Address  changes  can  be 
made  only  if  you  send  us  your  old,  as  well  as  your 
new  address.  Write  to  TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East 
42nd  Street.  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 
MANUSCRIPTS:    All  manuscripts  will  be  carefully  con- 


sidered, but  publisher  cannot  be  responsible  for  loss  or 
damage.  It  fs  advisable  to  keep  a  duplicate  copy  for 
your  records.  Only  those  manuscripts  accompanied  by 
stamped,  self-addressed  return  envelopes  or  with  suffi- 
cient return  postage  will  be  returned. 
FOREIGN  editions  handled  through  Macfadden  Publi- 
v^l'^",^-T'"if"i,^^V°"^'  *^°rPv  205  East  42nd  Street,  New 
T^^*I  ^Tv^  Kv.^'^U?"  S.  Manheimer,  President;  boug- 
las  Lockhart,    Vice  President.  ^^^& 

'*5;5'^T.^1^R^^-^  Second  Class  Matter,  June  28,  1954, 
at  the  Post  Office  at  New  York,  N.  Y..  under  the  Act  of 
March  3  1879.  Authorized  as'Second  Class  mail.  P.O. 
Dept.,  Ottawa,  Ont.,  Canada.  Copyright  1956  bv  Mar- 
fadden  Publications,'  Inc.  All  rights  reserved  under  In- 
ternational Copyright  Convention.  All  rights  reserved 
under  Pan-American  Copyright  Convention.  Todosde- 
^t^^^t^^^^t^^^^^t  segun  la  Convencion  Pan-Americana 
™„r/'*'^'f'*-^^  Literaria  y  Artistica.  Title  trademark 
?^l^f^'^^'*.  '"r,^.®;-  ^^*;?"*  Office.  Printed  in  U.  S.  A. 
by  Art  Color  Printing  Company. 

Member    of    the    TRUE    STORY    Women's    Group 


Whatever  became  of  the  girl 

I  married? 


» 


They  say  one  partner  in  every  marriage  is  more  in  love  than 
the  other.  And  in  the  Millers'  case,  everyone  had  thought  it  was 
she.  Then,  almost  overnight,  her  affection  seemed  to  cool. 
She  didn't  want  his  kisses— she  avoided  his  embrace.  Poor  John! 
He  never  even  suspected  that  his  breath  might  be  to  blame. 

Why  risk  offending?  Listerine  stops  bad  breath  (halitosis) 
instantly. 

The  most  common  cause  of  bad  breath  is 
germs  . . .  Listerine  kills  germs  by  millions 

By  far  the  most  common  cause  of  bad  breath  is  germs— germs 
that  ferment  protein  always  present  in  the  mouth.  Research 


proves  that,  the  more  you  reduce  these 
germs,  the  longer  your  breath  stays 
sweeter.  And  Listerine  Antiseptic  kills 
germs  on  contact— by  millions. 


No  tooth  paste  or  non-antiseptic  mouthwash 
kills  germs  the  way  Listerine  does 

Non-antiseptic  tooth  pastes,  mouthwashes  and  "breath  fresh- 
eners" can't  kill  germs  the  way  Listerine  does.  You  need  an 
antiseptic  to  kill  germs.  Listerine  IS  an  antiseptic— and  that's 
why  it  stops  bad  breath  four  times  better  than  tooth  paste. 
Gargle  with  Listerine  full-strength  to  keep  breath  fresher,  longer. 


LISTERINE   ANTISEPTIC  . . .  stops  bad  breath  4  times  better  than  tooth  paste 


WHAT'S  NEW  PROM  COAST 


Wife  Jayne   Meadows  describes  Steve  Allen  as  a 
"helpless"   male.    But  Big  Steve  is  helpful,  as  well. 


Script  is  by  Rudyard  Kipling  as  Garry  Moore  and  the  Gene 
Lowell   chorus    record   three   tales   in   time   for   Christmas. 


By  PETER  ABBOTT 


Two  Frank  Thomases,  Junior  and  Senior,  team  for  the 
first  time,  joining  Anne  Huston  on  My  True  Story. 


GUYS  &  GALS:  I  Love  Lucy  continues  to  pull 
big  ratings  but  at  a  cost  of  nerves  to 
match  for  Lucille  Ball  and  Desi  Arnaz. 
Already  they  are  laying  plans  for  a  rest 
in  Switzerland  this  summer.  They  ought 
to  check  first  on  Jack  Benny's  last 
trip  abroad.  A  European  "vacation"  ex- 
hausted him  so  that  he  flew  back  to 
Palm  Springs  for  a  rest.  .  .  .  Great 
excitement  at  NBC.  Marlon  Brando  billed 
for  spec  based  on  the  life  of  John  Wilkes 
Booth.  ...  A  reporter  abroad  reasons 
there  is  more  love-making  in  Europe  be- 
cause there  is  so  little  TV.  This 
recalls  Ann  Sothern's  observation.  Speak- 
ing of  young  newlyweds,  she  noted, 
"They've  settled  down  and  now  watch  TV 
constantly.  "...  The  Platters  guest  with 
Winchell  on  December  28.  .  .  .  Rosie 
Clooney  out  of  golden  West  this  month 
for  a  week  of  Christmas  shopping  in  New 
York,  plus  a  Sunday  appearance  with  Ed 
Sullivan.  .  .  .  General  Sarnoff  predicts 
that  in  your  lifetime  you  will  see 
3-D  TV  and  wristwatch  radios — but  no 
one,  absolutely  no  one,  expects  to  live 
long  enough  to  see  Sullivan  guest  star  on 
Winchell 's  show. 

OUR  RUGGED  COWBOYS:  Cheyenne ' s  star, 
Clint  Walker,  lives  on  "health  food"  and, 
four  times  a  year,  goes  on  a  three-week 


TO  COAST 


Miss  Show  Business,  Judy  Garland,  and  her  nnanager- 
producer-husband   Sid   Luft  have   spectacular  plans. 


Real  pros,  said  critics  of  the  Frank  Sinatra-Dinah  Shore 
spec.  Frank's  rare  on  TV.  Regular  Dinah  has  a  new  album. 


diet  of  raw  meat,  eggs,  fruit  and 
milk.  A  lion  of  a  man,  he  stands  six-six 
and  weighs  235  pounds.  At  his  North 
Hollywood  home,  he's  planning  and/or 
building  a  tree  house  for  six-year-old 
daughter  Valerie,  an  enormous  aviary  for 
he's  a  bird  lover,  and  a  gymnasium  for 
guess  who?  .  .  .  And  then  there  is  John 
Bromfield  of  movie  fame  and  of  TV's 
Sheriff  Of  Cochise.  John  was  a  varsity 
footballer  and  inter-collegiate  boxing 
champ.  His  favorite  sport  is  fishing, 
but  not  in  the  sardine  class.  He  spent 
three  months  off  Alaska  harpooning 
whales.  He  is  married  to  Lari  Thomas, 
golden  Goldwyn  girl,  and  she  is  more 
terrified  of  horses  than  whales.  She  dreads 
the  day  they  may  try  to  coax  her  aboard 
a  horse  with  John:  "Honestly,  they 
picked  a  real  rugged  specimen  for  Sheriff 
in  John,  but  with  him  got  the  world's 
worst  cowgirl  wife.  Even  merry-go- 
rounds  scare  me." 

STOP  &  GO^  Sonja  Henie,  right  after  her 
December  22  ice  spec,  skates  off  to 
Europe  for  rest  and  a  visit  with  Norwegian 
husband,  a  shipping  magnate.  .  .  .  The 
Hal  Marches  are  having  absolutely  no 
luck  with  Westchester  house-hunting. 
"Even  when  we  change  agents  we  see  the 
same  house  over  again,"  Hal  says,  "and 


when  they  hear  my  name  the  prices  get 
loftier."  .  .  .  Liberace's  bathroom  is 
decorated  as  an  indoor  garden.  .  .  .  From 
the  "Beanstalk"  spec  came  a  great  Columbia 
wax  for  Peggy  King,  "He  Never  Looks 
My  Way,  "  and  on  the  flip-side,  the  poignant 
"Love  Sick. "...  Fabulous  TV  forecast 
for  February;  Early  in  month  NBC  first 
presents  "Ruggles  of  Red  Gap"  with 
Michael  Redgrave,  David  Wayne,  Imogene 
Coca,  Jane  Powell  and  Peter  Lawford, 
then  follows  up  with  the  "Mayerling"  spec 
starring  Audrey  Hepburn  and  husband 
Mel  Ferrer.  .  .  .  Over  at  CBS,  also  in 
February,  the  Perle  Mesta  story  comes  to 
life  starring  Shirley  Booth.  And  last  and 
maybe  the  greatest  will  be  a  90-minute 
show  of  songs  and  dance  with  Judy  Garland. 
Judy  is  electric,  whether  she  is  on 
stage,  screen,  TV — or  record.  In  her  new 
Capitol  album,  simply  titled  "Judy," 
she  makes  your  heart  dance,  cry  or  just 
fill  with  sheer  exuberance. 

MORE  OF  MOORE ;  Garry  stars  in  the  season's 
most  delightful  production  for  kids. 
It's  a  collection  of  three  TCipling 
stories  on  a  Columbia  LP.  "I  take  no  credit 
for  it,"  Garry  Moore  says.  "They  called 
me  and  said  they  needed  a  narrator  and 
would  I  do  it."  He  recalls,  "Dad  used 
to  read  to  us — the  (Continued  on  page  64) 


Turrfe't^bl 


Gene  programs  for  tine  public,  found  his  ratings  doubled 
in  seven  months.  As  to  personal  taste — namely  Count  Basie, 
"the    swingingest" — "I    have    a    hi-fi    at    home    for    that." 


A  mad  hatter  from  Manhattan, 

WAVZ's  Gene  Stuart  turns  out 
to  be  New  Haven's  cup  of  tea 


IN  THE  WONDERLAND  of  tumtables,  baseball  fans  turn 
into  Basie  fans,  night  owls  turn  into  early  birds,  and 
the  world  goes  'round  at  anywhere  from  33  to  78  revo- 
lutions per  minute.  But,  as  Gene  Stuart  says,  "If  I  had 
to  work  for  a  living,  I  think  I'd  die."  .  .  .  Gene  is  a 
deejay  for  New  Haven's  Station  WAVZ,  and  the  way 
he  avoids  "work"  is  to  crawl  out  of  bed  at  4:30  each 
ayem.  This  gets  him  to  the  station  on  time  for  the  Gene 
Stuart  Show,  heard  Monday  through  Saturday  from 
6  to  9  A.M.  This  is  a  fast-moving  wake-up  show  with 
music,  news  and  weather  reports,  gimmick  records  and, 
adds  the  twenty-seven-year-old  deejay,  "some  of  my 
ridiculous  humor."  Gene  is  also  on  hand  Saturdays 
from  3  to  6  P.M.  with  Top  50  and  then  back  Saturday 
evenings  from  11  to  1  A.M.  with  Jazz  Sounds  Unlimited, 
a  program  named  after  the  jazz  club  Gene  has  organized 
in  New  Haven.  ...  A  New  Yorker,  Gene  planned  to 
make  baseball  his  career.  Then,  when  he'd  graduated 
from  high  school,  says  Gene,  "I  was  kicked  in  the  teeth 
with  polio  and  it  knocked  my  left  arm  out."  If  he 
couldn't  be  a  player.  Gene  decided  he'd  be  an  announcer. 
He  enrolled  at  Long  Island  University,  pestered  an 
English  prof,  who  was  also  a  veep  at  WABF-FM,  into 
giving  him   a   job.    Thence  to  Tulsa   and   Albany,    and 


then  Manhattan's  WABC  show  broadcast  from  midnight 
to  6  A.M.  from  Birdland,  "the  jazz  corner  of  the  world." 
When  Birdland  switched  stations.  Gene  moved  to  a 
studio,  re-named  the  show  Cluh  770  and  kept  the  night 
owls  chirping.  While  at  WABC,  Gene  worked  with  Bob 
Garity — "the  greatest.  He's  now  with  WOR" — and  was 
"taken  in  hand  by  a  wonderful  human  being"-Allyn 
Edwards,  now  with  ABC-TV.  Eventually,  the  show 
went  off,  but  not  before  Nick  Kenny  had  named  Gene 
"New  DJ  of  the  Year."  .  .  .  Next  came  the  offer  of  a 
job  from  WAVZ.  "I  grabbed  it  before  they  could  change 
their  minds,"  Gene  grins.  "There  is  nothing  so  miser- 
able in  the  world  as  a  deejay  who  has  thousands  of 
records  but  no  turntables  and  no  microphone."  Gene 
and  his  records  share  an  apartment  with  Ron  Rohmer, 
a  former  deejay  in  Canada  and  now  a  hockey  player 
with  the  New  Haven  Blades.  "He  does  the  cooking," 
says  Gene,  "while  I  am  the  duster,  bed-maker,  etc!" 
Hobbies?  "As  all  bachelors  do,  I  keep  looking  at  girls 
all  the  time.  I  can  spot  a  pretty  girl  in  dense  fog  and 
a  mile  away."  Gene  also  likes  "watching  hockey,  bowl- 
ing, eating  and  sleeping."  He  digs  Count  Basie  the  most, 
but  in  Connecticut,  even  people  who  don't  like  Basie 
like  Gene.    New  York's  loss  is  New  Haven's  favorite! 


INFORMATION  BOOTH 


Crazy  Haul! 

Could  you  please  give  me  some  infor- 
mation about  comic  Earl  Hall,  including 
whether  or  not  he  has  his  own  show? 

J.  W.,  Gaffney,  S.  C. 

Diminutive  Earl  Hall  is  as  much  at  home 
in  front  of  a  TV  camera  today  as  he  was 
in  his  native  Appleton,  Wisconsin.  But  the 
road  that  led  him  to  television  had  none 
of  the  comforts  of  home.  After  four  years 
of  service  as  a  Marine  in  the  South  Pacific, 
Earl  promptly  returned  to  that  area  to  be- 
come a  radio  announcer  and  disc  jockey  in 
Honolulu,  Hawaii.  A  year  of  playing 
straight  man  to  a  microphone,  then  Earl 
began  giving  vent  to  his  funny  bone  in  a 
swank  Hawaiian  night  spot,  Lau  Yee 
Chi's,  where  his  rubber-faced  mugging  and 
sensational  pratfalls  earned  him  the  nick- 
name of  "crazy  hauli"  (a  hauli  being  any 
non-Hawaiian).  .  .  .  Returning  to  the  U.S. 
in  1948,  he  toured  the  club  circuits  in  Chi- 
cago and  Los  Angeles,  won  rave  reviews 
in  Broadway's  "Meet  the  People — 1955," 
but  decided  to  forego  the  usual  pattern 
of  the  comic  in  order  to  concentrate  ex- 
clusively on  his  goal — TV.  Since  then,  Earl 
has  become  a  familiar  face  to  viewers  of 
Steve  Allen's  Tonight  and  The  Garry 
Moore  Show — having  made  six  guest  ap- 
pearances on  each  within  the  last  year 
and  a  half — and  has  also  done  guest  shots 
on  Arthur  Godfrey's  Talent  Scouts,  The 
Stork  Club  Show,  The  Arthur  Murray 
Party,  This  Is  Show  Business,  and  the 
Dorsey  brothers'  Stage  Show.  .  .  .  Now, 
with  both  NBC  and  CBS  eyeing  him  as  a 
bright  prospect  for  a  show  of  his  own. 
Earl  continues  working  out  new  comedy 
ideas  for  his  future  guest  spots  and  will 
be  seen  doing  anything  from  off-key  sing- 
ing of  Western  ballads  to  pantomime.  .  .  . 
Earl  was  married  in  September,  1951,  to 
former  actress  Phyllis  Harlin.  They  have 
an  eighteen-month-old  daughter,  Laura 
Jeanne,  and  Sir  Stork  will  be  visiting  them 
again  any  day  now. 


Earl  Hall 


James  Brown 


Calling  All  Fans 

The  following  clubs  invite  new  members. 
If  you  are  interested,  write  to  address 
given — not  to  TV  Radio  Mirror. 

Perry's  Handicapped  Pals  (The  Perry 
Como  Fan  Club  for  Handicapped  Per 
sons),  c/o  Dotty  Stanley,  12  Love  Lane, 
Norwood,  Pa. 

Teal  Ames  Fan  Club,  c/o  Karen  Ewing 
1425  Blanc'hard  Ave.,  Findlay,  Ohio. 

Dick  Jones  Fan  Club,  c/o  Joanne  Col 
lins,  3890  Bradley  Road,  Westlake,  Ohio, 

Mission  Accomplished 

Would  you  please  give  me  some  infor- 
mation about  James  Brown,  who  plays 
Lieutenant  Rip  Masters  on  The  Adven- 
tures Of  Rin-Tin-Tin.'' 

P.  M.,  Walla  Walla,  Wash. 

James  Brown,  whom  you  see  as  Lieu- 
tenant Rip  Masters  on  The  Adventures  Of 
Rin-Tin-Tin,  over  ABC-TV,  is  adding  an 
exciting  new  facet  to  an  already  long  and 
successful  show  business  career.  A  former 
band  vocalist,  with  a  fine  baritone  voice, 
Jim  recently  started  cutting  records  on 
the  M-G-M  label,  and,  as  Rip  Masters, 
gets  to  sing  an  occasional  song  on  the 
show.  ...  A  one-time  Texas  state  tennis 
champion,  handsome,  brown-haired,  blue- 
eyed  Jim  was  spotted  by  Paramount  scouts 
in  a  West  Coast  tennis  match,  appeared 
in  such  films  as  "Going  My  Way,"  "Ob- 
jective Burma"  and  "Sands  of  Iwo  Jima." 
Next  up  was  the  Rin-Tin-Tin  show,  with 
Jim  as  Rip  Masters.  (The  character  was 
originally  named  Jack  Ryan,  but  wife 
Betty  thinks  the  name  was  changed  be- 
cause Jim  ripped  four  pairs  of  trousers 
getting  on  and  off  his  horse  in  the  begin- 
ning of  the  series.)  Together  with  Beverly, 
14,  Carol  Ann,  12,  and  Barbara,  101/2,  he 
and  Betty  live  in  a  rustic-style  three- 
bedroom  home,  in  which  Jim  practices 
his  woodworking  hobby.  He's  still  rated 
one  of  Hollywood's  top  tennis  players. 
(Continued  on  page  11) 


Mo  Other  Leading  Toothpaste 

CUilNS 

CLEANS 

CLEANS 

YOUR  BREATH  irWeil 

GUARDS 

GUARDS 

GUARDS 

YOUR  TEETH 

Like  Colgate  Dental  Cream! 


Because  No  Other  Leading  Toothpaste 

Contains  GARDOLTO  GIVE  YOU 

LONG-LASTING  PROTECTION  AGAINST 

BOTH  BAD  BREATH  AND  TOOTH  DECAY 

..,  With  Just  One  Brushing! 

Unlike  crther  leading  toothpastes,  Colgate's 
forms  an  invisible,  protective  shield  around 
your  teeth  that  fights  decay  all  day  .  .  .  with 
just  one  brushing!  Gives  you  a  cleaner, 
fresher  breath  all  day,  too !  Ask  your  dentist 
how  often  to  brush  your  teeth.  But  remem- 
ber! No  other  leading  toothpaste*  cleans 
your  breath  while  it  guards  your  teeth  like 
Colgate  Dental  Cream  with  Gardol  I 


SAFE 


for  Children  of  Ail  Ages!  '^ 
to  Use  in  All  Water  Areas ' 
Makes  teeth  whiter— 
cannot  stain  or  discolor! 


QAROOL  IS  COLGATE'S  TRADE-HARK 
FOR  SODIUM    N-LAUROYL  SARCOSINATE. 


THI 


ISIB 


There'll  be  many  happy  returns  of 

entertainment  and  information,  with  America's 

first  network  celebrating  its  birthday 


On  fhe  air!    Chief  Engineer  O.  B.  Hanson,  now  an  NBC 
veep,    signals    for    the    first    broadcast,    Nov.    15,     1926. 


WHEN  the  National  Broadcasting  Company — 
America's  first  network — came  into  being 
on   November  15,   1926,   the   habits   of   an 
entire  nation  were  to  be  affected.  A  single 
microphone  now  could  bring  listeners  across- 
the- country    information,    entertainment    and 
public  service — and  bring  it  free  of  charge. 
NBC  personalities  became  as  familiar  as 
members  of  the  family,  a  new  thought  became  a 
household  word  in  an  instant.  Radio  was  a 
miracle.  Then,  in  1939,  television  left  the  realm 
of  science  fiction  and  produced  its  first  regularly 
scheduled  program.  In  1946  came  the  coaxial 
cable  and  network  television.  The  future? 
Sounds   and   sights   in  even   higher  fidelity. 


Fire    Chief    Ed    Wynn    plays    shy.     But    NBC    was 
born    bold.     It   began   with    big    plans,    big    names. 


Baby    Snoolcs,    alias    Fanny     Brice, 
titillated     listeners    as    a     "brat." 


Weber    and    Fields,    music    hall    immortals, 
clowned    in    dialect    for    the    new    network. 


Rudy     Vallee,     the     Vagabond     Lover, 
stayed    put   on   Variety   Hour,    1929-39. 


Allen's  Alley  bordered   on   satire   as   Fred   queried   Sen.   Claghorn    (Kenny   Delmar),    Mrs. 
Nussbaum  (Minerva  Pious),  Ajax  Cassidy  (Peter  Donald),  Titus  Moody  (Parker  Fennelly). 


W.    C.    Fields,     Dotty    Lamour    visited 
Charlie    McCarthy   and    Edgar   Bergen. 


Eddie    Cantor,    here    with    Jane    Carr, 
was    first    to    use    a    "live    audience." 


Sports     had     its     innings.      Here,     Babe 
Ruth  interviewed  by  Graham  McNamee. 


Milton    Berle    mugged    on    a    brand-new 
medium     and     became     Mr.     Television. 


TV     screens     got     bigger,     shows     got     spectacular,     and     NBC 
commissioned    ooera.    "Amahl."    to    be    repeated    this    Dec.     16. 


Coming    soon:    On    Alcoa    Hour,    Dec.    23,    Betty    Madigan,    Vic 
Damone,     Basil     Rathbone,     in    "The    Stingiest     Man     in    Town." 


TIP-OFF  ON 
HY  GARDNER 


When  it's  Hy  Gardner  calling,  questions — and  answers 
— are  frank.  Marilyn  checks  items,  lines  up  TV  guests. 


Her  boss  is  a  dynanno,  but  nice,  says  Marilyn.   And  how 
many  secretaries  can  have  Eddie  Fisher  sing  for  them? 


10 


Hy  covers  the  bistros.    Marilyn  often  comes  along  as 
he  gets  first-hand  scoops  from  stars  such  as  Peter  Lorre. 


Tip-Oflf:  Hy  Gardner,  syndicated  Herald  Tribune 
columnist,  now  on  WRCA-TV,  earned  two  dollars 
for  his  first  byline. 

Check-Up:  Right,  says  Hy,  who  saw  a  copy  of  the 
Rogers  Peet  company  publication  when  his  mother 
took  him  shopping  for  his  first  pair  of  long  pants. 
He  sold  them  a  series  of  quips  and  cartoons,  decided 
then  and  there  he'd  write  a  column  for  a  New  York 
paper.  Later,  in  high  school,  Hy  contributed  items 
to  a  Broadway  columnist.  Salary:  A  monthly  lunch. 
Tip-Oif :  Success  for  Hy  came  by  mail. 
Check-Up:  "Yes,"  admits  the  lean  and  fifty-ish  New 
Yorker.  "I'd  run  an  ad  agency  and  had  a  syndicated 
column,  but  no  New  York  byline.  The  Tribune, 
which  hadn't  had  a  columnist  in  108  years  of  pub- 
lishing, turned  me  down.  So.  for  a  month  I  wrote 
a  column,  set  it  up  in  their  style  of  type,  and  mailed 
it  special  delivery  to  every  executive  of  the  paper, 
with  the  notation:  'Excerpts  from  a  column  which 
should  be  running  in  the  New  York  Herald  Tribune.' 
They  finally  hired  me  to  see  how  much  circulation 
they  could  lose."  Columnist  Hy  is  now  a  "policy" 
man  on  the  paper,  too. 

Tip-Off :  Hy  is  doing  an  Ed  Murrow  on  WRCA-TV. 
Check -Up:  "The  differences  between  our  show  and 
Ed's  Person  to  Person  are  that  ours  is  a  news  show, 
not  a  personality  show,  and  that  Ed  spends  more  on 
cigarettes  than  we  do  on  our  entire  show!"  Hy's 
talking  about  Hy  Gardner  Calling,  seen  Sundays  at 
11:15  P.M.  Using  a  split  screen,  Hy  telephones 
people  in  show  business  or  in  the  news.  The  wires 
crackle  with  forthright  questions  and  equally  forth- 
right answers.  As  Hy  explains,  "I  know  where  all 
the  bodies  are  buried.  I  know  them  and  they  know 
me."  Guests  on  Hy  Gardner  Reporting,  weekdays 
at  11:20  P.M.,  answer  the  frank  queries  face  to  face. 
Tip-Off:  As  a  boss-man,  Hy  is  tough. 
Check-Up:  We  checked  this  with  Marilyn  Bosh- 
nick,  Hy's  secretary  for  six  years  and  the  fetching 
brunette  who  answers  the  phone  on  the  Sunday 
show.  "Hy  is  a  very  busy  man,  a  bit  impatient,"  she 
told  us.  "And  it  takes  time  to  get  used  to  working 
for  a  dynamo."  Marilyn  is  a  would-be  actress  turned 
secretary.  She  admits  Hy  fired  her  after  her  first 
year,  but,  after  six  months  and  thirteen  secretaries, 
invited  her  back.  "You  learn  how  to  use  your 
ingenuity  working  for  people  like  Hy,"  she  says. 
"And  my  hours  are  much  better  than  Rose  Big- 
man's,  who  didn't  train  boss  Winchell  right!" 
Tip-Off:  "Champagne  Before  Breakfast"  sums  up  Hy. 
Check-Up:  "I  made  the  title  up  for  a  book,  while 
lolling  in  a  hayloft." 


i 


INFORMATION    BOOTH 

(Continued  from  page  7) 

Mustache  Memories 

/  would  like  to  know  something  about 
Robert  Wright,  who  does  the  commercials 
on  $64,000  Challenge. 

M.  G.,  Hartford,  Conn. 

Currently,  Robert  Wright,  spokesmaii 
for  Kent  cigarettes  on  Challenge  and  other 
programs,  is  telling  the  story  of  how  he 
and  Dave  Garroway  finally  met.  Last  year, 
Bob  commuted  from  New  York  to  the 
West  Coast  to  do  commercials  in  Wide 
Wide  World.  He  and  Garroway  spoke  and 
saw  each  other  via  the  monitor,  but  they 
never  met  face  to  face.  When  they  finally 
did  meet.  Bob  had  grown  a  mustache  for 
his  appearance  in  the  spectacular,  "Rosa- 
linda," with  Cyril  Ritchard — and  Dave 
failed  to  recognize  his  colleague.  The  mus- 
tache is  gone  now  and.  Bob  says,  he  misses 
it.  .  .  .  Born  in  Columbia,  Missouri,  Bob 
comes  from  a  musical  family.  His  mother 
taught  elocution.  "Speech,  I  think  they 
call  it  now,"  Bob  says.  When  he  was  eight- 
een, Jane  Froman's  mother  heard  him 
sing  and  sent  him  to  New  York.  He  sang 
at  the  Cocoanut  Grove  and  in  the  Campus 
Choir,  one  of  the  first  of  the  humming 
choirs.  He  appeared  on  most  of  the  top 
radio  shows  and  then,  when  lean  times 
came,  Bob  borrowed  twepty-five  dollars 
and  worked  his  way  to  Europe,  where  he 
did  some  singing.  Then  back  to  the  U.  S., 
and  radio  work  on  stations  in  St.  Louis 
and  Tulsa,  giving  concerts,  singing  on 
tours.  He  was  in  the  first  TV  perform- 
ance of  Menotti's  "The  Telephone,"  an- 
nounced on  You  Are  There,  had  a  run- 
ning part  in  Road  Of  Life  and  appeared 
on  Hallmark  Hall  Of  Fame.  He  was  in 
"Make  Mine  Manhattan"  with  Sid  Caesar, 
played  a  lead  on  Broadway  and  on  the 
road  in  "Kiss  Me  Kate,"  recorded  the 
"Miss  Liberty"  album  with  Al  Goodman. 
.  .  .  He  has  three  places  to  hang  his  hat. 
There's  a  Manhattan  apartment  for  hectic 
days,  a  vacation  place  in  the  Adirondacks, 
and  a  house  in  Connecticut  complete  with 
wife  Lyda  (he  calls  her  "Boots"),  sons 
Pete,  16,  and  Tom,  13,  and  twins  Billie 
and  Kelly,  7. 


Robert  Wright 


Amanda  Blake 


Gunsmoke  Gal 

Could  you  please  give  me  some  informa- 
tion about  Amanda  Blake? 

P.  M.,  Warsaw,  HI. 

"My  past,  present  and  future  are  all  the 
same,"  claims  vivacious  Amanda  Blake. 
"I've  never  wanted  to  be  anything  but  an 
actress."  And  the  titian-tressed  Amanda, 
who  can  currently  be  seen  as  Kitty  on 
CBS-TV's  Gunsmoke,  has  a  pile  of  credits 
to  prove  it.  Buflalo-born,  Amanda  moved 
to  Claremont,  California,  while  still  in 
high  school.  After  a  year  at  Pomona  Col- 
lege, Amanda  headed  straight  for  summer 
stock  in  New  England.  Next  came  ex- 
tensive little-theater  and  radio  work  in 
Buffalo,  eventually  followed  by  an  M-G-M 
contract  and  appearances  in  "Lili,"  "The 
Glass  Slipper"  and  other  films.  Her  TV 
debut  was  made  on  Schlitz  Playhouse  Of 
Stars,  and  you  may  have  seen  Amanda  on 
any  or  all  of  the  following:  General  Elec- 
tric Theater,  Four  Star  Playhouse,  Caval- 
cade Of  America,  Lux  Video  Theater,  My 
Favorite  Husband,  Professional  Father, 
The  Red  Skelton  Show,  and  Climax!  .  .  . 
Amanda  displays  special  prowess  in  swim- 
ming and  fencing.  She  has  a  charming 
disregard  for  conventional  mealtime  hours. 
Dinner  she'll  eat,  but  lunch  goes  by  the 
boards — unless  she  has  a  special  appoint- 
ment— and  for  breakfast  there  is  only 
coffee,  followed  by  "gallons  of  it"  during 
the  day.  Since  1954,  Amanda  has  been  the 
wife  of  TV  director  Don  Whitman.  The 
Whitmans  live  in  an  eight-room  modern 
home  in  the  Woodland  Hills  section  of  San 
Fernando  Valley.  A  boxer  dog  and  two 
Siamese  cats  have  the  run  of  the  house. 
Quips  Amanda:  "We  don't  share  the  home 
with  them.  It's  more  a  case  of  vice-versa." 


FOR  YOUR  INFORMATION— If  there's 
something  you  want  to  know  about  radio 
and  television,  write  to  Information  Booth, 
TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East  42nd  St.,  New 
York  17,  N.  Y.  We'll  answer,  if  we  can, 
provided  your  question  is  of  general  inter- 
est. Answers  will  appear  in  this  column — 
but  be  sure  to  attach  this  box  to  your 
letter,  and  specify  whether  your  question 
concerns  radio  or  TV. 


»Wo\  W'"SJ  f  (L  row*"'' 


11 


As  an  adopted  Texan,  Elizabeth  Taylor  believes  that  James  Dean  shares  her  discon+en+. 


TV 


MMMIROR 


«K 


12 


TV  favorites  on 

your  theater  screen 

By  JANET  GRAVES 


Giant 

WARNERS,  WARNERCOLOR 

Colossal  in  title  and  subject,  this  highly 
colored  drama  draws  on  top  people  of  two 
fields.  Rock  Hudson,  as  ruler  of  a  Texas  cattle 
empire,  Elizabeth  Taylor,  as  his  rebellious 
Maryland  bride,  are  both  Hollywood-trained. 
But  important  roles  are  competently  handled 
with  skill  honed  by  TV  experience.  As  a 
sulky  cowhand  who  becomes  a  free-spending 
oil  millionaire,  the  late  James  Dean  does  a 
vivid  job.  Newcomers  Carroll  Baker  and  Den- 
nis Hopper  are  troublesome  children  of  Rock 
and  Liz.  Then  there  are  Sal  Mineo,  as  a 
Mexican-American  neighbor,  and  radio  vet 
Mercedes  McCambridge,  as  Rock's  sister. 

The  Ten  Commandments 

paramount;  vistavision,  technicolor 
Pioneer    in    the    march    from    television    to 
movies,  Charlton  Heston  has  the  greatest  role 
of  his  career,  playing  Moses  in  the  Biblical 
epic  that  is  also  the  peak  of  C.  B.  DeMille's 


long  career.  Scenes  of  overwhelming  specta- 
cle pit  Heston  against  Yul  Brynner's  Pharaoh. 
Anne  Baxter  as  a  lethal  Egyptian  princess, 
Yvonne  DeCarlo  as  Moses'  humble  wife,  John 
Derek  as  the  militant  Joshua,  Edward  G. 
Robinson  as  a  traitor — big  names  go  on. 

Around  the  World  in  80  Days 

todd;  todd-ao,  eastman  color 
You'll  have  to  see  this  huge,  amusing  extrava- 
ganza to  believe  it.  Go  with  David  Niven  and 
Mexico's  Cantinflas  on  a  globe-circling  dash 
in  1872.  See  the  world — and  stars  ranging 
from  Sinatra  to  Noel  Coward,  Bea  Lillie  to 
Marlene  Dietrich,  Edward  R.  Murrow  to  Red 
Skelton ! 

Westward  Ho  the  Wagons! 

buena  vista;  cinemascope,  technicolor 

Fresh  and  appealing,  like  most  Disney-pro- 
duced adventure  tales,  this  yarn  of  Conestoga 
days  teams  Fess  Parker  with  TV  adversary 
Jeff  York,  as  scouts  leading  a  wagon  train 
through  Indian  country.  Trying  to  deal  with 
hot-heads  in  his  own  group  and  in  the  local 
tribe,  Fess  still  has  time  for  romance  with 
Kathleen  Crowley.  There's  cheery  music. 

Reprisal! 

COLUMBIA,  technicolor 

In  Wild  Bill  Hickok  guise,  Guy  Madison 
would  never  be  so  hesitant  as  he  seems  here. 


Newly  settled  in  a  frontier  town  where  In- 
dians are  persecuted,  Guy  refuses  to  take 
sides,  disregarding  pleas  from  gallant  Felicia 
Farr  and  Indian  maiden  Kathryn  Grant.  His 
motive  comes  out:  He  is  trying  to  escape 
prejudice  by  concealing  his  own  half-Indian 
ancestry.  But  the  final  outburst  of  violence 
can't  be  avoided. 

Public  Pigeon  No.  1 

RKO,  TECHNICOLOR 

Red  Skelton  fans  will  enjoy  .the  antics  of  the 
carrot-topped  clown  in  this  farce  about  an 
innocent  lad  victimized  by  swindlers.  First 
seen  on  Climax,  the  story  pairs  Red  with  Sid 
Caesar's  TV  spouse,  Janet  Blair,  and  casts 
Vivian  Blaine  and  Benny  Baker  among  the 
villains  of  the  piece. 

At   Your    Neighborhood    Theaters 

Friendly  Persuasion  (A. A.,  De  Luxe  Col- 
or) :  Charming  story  of  Quakers  in  Civil  War 
Indiana.  Gary  Cooper  and  Dorothy  McGuire 
as  parents;  Tony  Perkins,  Phyllis  Love  as 
teenagers  with  problems. 

The  Opposite  Sex  (M-G-M;  CinemaScope, 
Metrocolor)  :  Gay,  lavish  musical  about  rest- 
less rich  women.  June  Allyson,  Leslie  Niel- 
sen are  a  warring  couple;  Joan  Collins  is  a 
man-eater;  Jeff  Richards,  a  singing  cowboy. 


Showing  this  month 


For  your  convenience  in  selecting  your 
favorite  movies  from  those  shown  on  the 
TV  screen  in  December,  we  give  you  these 
capsule  reviews.  This  will  be  a  continuing 
feature  in  TV  Radio  Mirror. 

ALL  THIS  AND  HEAVEN  TOO  (Warn- 
ers) :  Drama  of  19th  century  France,  excel- 
lently acted  by  Bette  Davis,  governess 
named  as  motive  for  nobleman  Charles 
Boyer's  alleged'  murder  of  wife  Barbara 
O'Neil. 

BEDTIME  STORY  (Columbia):  Gay 
marital  comedy  presents  Loretta  Young  as 
an  actress  eager  to  retire.  As  her  play- 
wright husband,  Fredric  March  tries  to 
thwart  her.  With  the  late  Bob  Benchley. 

CAUGHT  (M-G-M)  :  Fine  performances 
put  a  pat  story  across.  Working  girl  Bar- 
bara Bel  Geddes  marries  rich  Bob  Ryan, 
finds  he's  a  neurotic,  falls  in  love  with 
James  Mason,  unselfish  physician. 

CHRISTMAS  CAROL,  A  (U.A.) :  An- 
nual revival  of  the  beloved  Dickens  classic. 
This  is  the  British  version,  with  wonderful 
Alastair  Sim  as  Scrooge,  miser  taught  to 
appreciate  the  Christmas  spirit. 

CHRISTMAS       IN       CONNECTICUT 

(Warners)  :  Sassy  adult  farce  presents  Bar- 
bara Stanwyck  as  a  career  woman  who 
poses  as  wife  and  mother,  so  she  can  enter- 
tain war  hero  Dennis  Morgan. 

CONFIDENTIAL  AGENT  (Warners): 
Colorful  suspense  story  of  Spain's  civil  war. 
In  London  intrigues,  Charles  Boyer  upholds 
the  anti-Franco  cause,  aided  by  Lauren 
Bacall.  Wanda  Hendrix  scores. 

CORN  IS  GREEN,  THE  (Warners) :  An- 
other strong  Bette  Davis  portrayal.  She  is 
a  spinster  schoolteacher  in  Wales,  advanc- 
ing the  career  of  student  John  Dall,  though 
Joan  Lorring  interferes. 

DAUGHTERS  COURAGEOUS  (Warn- 
ers) :  Warmly  appealing  family  drama. 
Father  Claude  Rains  returns  to  wife  Fay 
Bainter  and  grown  children.  Priscilla  Lane 
teams  with  the  late  John  Garfield. 

DEVOTION  (Warners)  :  Turbulent  story 
of  the  writing  Bronte  sisters  (Ida  Lupino, 
Olivia  de  Havilland,  Nancy  Coleman),  their 
problem  brother  (Arthur  Kennedy),  a  rift- 
making  suitor  (Paul  Henreid). 

FABULOUS  DORSEYS,  THE  (U.A): 
Lots  of  lively  music  fills  the  biography  of 
Jimmy  and  Tommy,  playing  themselves  in 
a  story  of  feuding  bandleaders.  Janet  Blair, 
Bill  Lundigan  romance. 

GIRL,  A  GUY  AND  A  GOB,  A  (RKO) : 
In  an  affable  screwball  comedy,  Lucille 
Ball's  the  girl  (with  a  wacky  family). 
Edmond  O'Brien's  the  stuffy  guy.  George 
Murphy's  the  dancing  gob. 

I'LL  BE  SEEING  YOU  (U.A.) :  Affect- 
ing study  of  a  GI's  recovery  from  combat 
fatigue.  Vet  Joseph  Gotten  finds  healing 
through  Yuletide  friendship  with  parolee 
Ginger  Rogers. 


IN  THIS  OUR  LIFE  (Warners) :  Bette 
Davis  plays  a  venomous  Southern  girl, 
with  Olivia  de  Havilland  as  her  civilized 
sister.  Explosive  drama  springs  from  man- 
slaughter Bette  commits. 

KISS  OF  DEATH  (20th):  Tough,  top- 
flight thriller,  famous  for  Richard  Wid- 
mark's  debut  role,  a  giggling  gunman.  As  a 
convict,  Vic  Mature  turns  stool  pigeon  for 
the  sake  of  wife  Coleen  Gray. 

MATING  OF  MILLIE,  THE  (Colum- 
bia) :  Any  bus-rider  will  laugh  at  the  first 
sequence.  Glenn  Ford's  the  driver;  Evelyn 
Keyes,  the  career  girl  who  must  find  a 
husband  before  adopting  a  child. 

MR.  BLANDINGS  BUILDS  HIS 
DREAM  HOUSE  (RKO):  Any  home- 
builder  will  laugh  (tears  in  eyes)  at  Gary 
Grant's  efforts  to  get  his  house  finished, 
with  wife  Myrna  Loy  supervising. 

ONCE  UPON  A  TIME  (Columbia): 
Here's  Gary  again,  as  a  publicity  man  who 
finds  a  dancing  caterpillar.  Little  Ted 
Donaldson  is  likeable,  as  the  creature's 
owner;  Janet  Blair  plays  his  sister. 

RAMROD  (U.A.)  :  Crisp,  top-flight  West- 
ern. Tough  ranch-owner  Veronica  Lake 
hires  Joel  McCrea  to  defend  her  holdings. 
Don  Defore  is  Joel's  pal;  Preston  (Water- 
front)  Foster  is  chief  bad  guy. 

ROARING  TWENTIES,  THE  (Warn- 
ers) :  Lusty  re-creation  of  a  wild  decade 
has  Jimmy  Cagney  as  a  likeable  bootlegger 
and  Humphrey  Bogart  as  a  murderous 
racketeer.  With  Priscilla  Lane. 

SIGN  OF  THE  RAM,  THE  (Columbia) : 
The  late  Susan  Peters — crippled  in  real  life 
when  she  made  the  film — does  an  arresting 
job  as  a  wheelchair-bound  girl  exerting 
evil  influence  on  her  family. 

SPIRAL  STAIRCASE,  THE  (RKO): 
Splendidly  photographed,  well-acted  thrill- 
er. Servant  to  Ethel  Barrymore,  Dorothy 
McGuire  is  a  mute  who  solves  the  mystery 
involving  Rhonda  Fleming. 

STAGE  STRUCK  (Warners) :  Mild  mu- 
sical teams  Joan  Blondell  and  Dick  Powell, 
husband  and  wife  when  the  picture  was 
made.  Dick  is  director  of  a  stage  show; 
Joan,  temperamental  star;  Jeanne  Madden, 
understudy. 

THREE  STRANGERS  (Warners) :  Adult 
melodrama  links  unlikely  trio  in  ownership 
of  a  sweepstakes  ticket:  Geraldine  Fitz- 
gerald, selfish  wife;  the  late  Sydney  Green- 
street,  embezzler;  Peter  Lorre. 

TOVARICH  (Warners):  Pleasing  light 
comedy  about  Russian  refugees  in  Paris. 
Prince  Charles  Boyer  and  his  wife,  Grand 
Duchess  Claudette  Colbert,  work  as  butler 
and  maid,  outwit  Basil   Rathbone,   a   Red. 

UNSUSPECTED,  THE  (Warners) :  Thor- 
oughly mystifying  murder  mystery  casts 
Claude  Rains  as  a  suave  radio  star,  Joan 
Caulfield  as  a  confused  girl,  Michael  North 
as  her  supposed  husband. 


Motf  be/feue  /n^9 
ei/er  etvbdtf-^SQecf 
by  PiiripfesI^^ 


New!  Clearasil  Medication 

STARVES' 
PIMPLES 

SKIN-COLORED  . .  .  hides  pimples  while  It  works; 

At  last !  Science  discovers  a  new-type  medi- 
cation especially  for  pimples,  timt  really 
works.  In  skin  specialists'  tests  on  202 
patients,  9  out  of  every  10  cases  were 
completely  cleared  up  or  definitely  improved 
while  using  clearasil. 

CLEARASIL  WORKS  FAST 
TO  MAKE   PIMPLES   DISAPPEAR 


T  J  ir-'-^ 


1 .  PENETRATES  PIMPLES  .  .  .  kera- 
tolytic  action  softens  and  dissolves 
affected  skin  tissue  .  .  .  permits 
medication  to  penetrate  down  into 
any  infected  area. 

2.  ISOLATES  PIMPLES  .  .  .  antiseptic 
action  of  this  new  type  medication 
stops  growth  of  bacteria  that  can 
cause  and  spread  pimples. 

3.  'STARVES'  PIMPLES  .  .  .  CLEAR. 
asil's  famous  dry-up  action 
'starves'  pimples  because  it  helps 
to  remove  the  oils  that  pimples 
'feed'  on. 

SKIN  CREAMS  CAN  'FEED'  PIMPLES 
CLEARASIL  'STARVES'  THEM 

Oil  in  pores  helps  pimples  grow  and  thrive.  So  oily 
skin  creams  can  actually  'feed'  pimples.  Only  an 
oil-absorbing  medication  . . .  clearasil,  helps  dry  up 
this  oil,  'starves'  pimples. 

•FLOATS  our  BLACKHEADS 

CLEARAsa's  penetrating  medical  action  softens  and 
loosens  blackheads  from  underneath,  so  they  'float 
out'  with  normal  washing.  So  why  sufiFer  the  misery 
of  pimples  or  blackheads !  clearasil  is  guaranteed 
to  work  for  you,  as  in  doctors'  tests,  or  money  back. 
Only  69<  at  all  drug  counters  (economy  size  980. 


Largest-Selling  Pimple 
MedicaKon  in  America  (including  Canada} 


13 


George  Lorenz  may  be 

'nothing  but  a  Hound  Dog," 

but  to  WKBW  listeners 

this  deejay's  "the  most." 


Jive  jargon  is  George's  ad-lib  specialty. 
Home,  "the  hound  Is  around"  wife  Rita, 
twins  Frankie  and  Freddie,  Linda,  George  E. 


14 


A  MOURNFUL  CANINE  faces  the  moon  and  wails.  This 
is  the  signal  for  a  crazy  cat  named  Hound  Dog 
to  flip  some  discs  containing  the  coolest  sounds  on 
wax.  Hound  Dog  keeps  his  thousands  of  fans  rockin' 
with  the  beat  of  his  "moovin'  and  groovin'  "  sounds, 
heard  from  7: 15  to  10: 00  P.M.,  Monday  through 
Saturday,  over  Buffalo's  WKBW.  Buffalo's  bearded 
blockbuster — dubbed    "The    Granddaddy    of   Rock   'n' 
Roll"  by  Canadian  fans — is  in  reality  a  genial  guy 
named  George  Lorenz.  ...  At  age  fifteeen,  George 
was  selected  as  a  radio  actor  by  the  Buffalo  Broad- 
casting Company.  Pursuing  a  career  in  sports  and 
news  announcing,  George  was  set  for  a  great  job  in 
1946,  when  pneumonia  struck.  Upon  recovery,  he 
buried  his  disappointment  in  a  tour  of  twenty -two 
Eastern  and  Midwestern  states  as  a  club  and  theater 
emcee.  Returning  to  radio  the  following  year,  George 
joined  the  staff  of  Buffalo's  WXRA.  An  early  admirer 
of  rhythm  and  blues  and  what  he  calls  "rock  billy," 
George  started  promoting  it  at  WXRA,  gave  it  an 
even  bigger  play,  as  Hound  Dog,  on  a  daily  three- 
hour  show  for  Niagara  Falls'  WJJL.   Then,  in  June 
of  1955,  The  Hound  Dog's  Eighth  Anniversary 
Celebration  drew  over  15,000  people  to  a  park  outside 
of  Buffalo.    After  that,  the  glad  news  about 
George  really  got  around,  and  WKBW  signed  him  the 
following  September.  .  .  .  George  met  his  wife  Rita 
on  a  blind  date.  They  have  four  children:   George 
E.,  14;  Linda  Carol,  8;  and  twins  Freddie  and  Frankie, 
7.  In  1952,  Linda  was  felled  by  polio.  So  impressed 
was  George  by  the  unsolicited  help  given  by  the 
March  of  Dimes  that  he  has  since  done  extensive 
work  on  their  behalf.  A  year  ago,  he  conducted  an 
all-night    radio    marathon    that    raised    thousands    of 
dollars  for  this  cause.  .  .  .  The  International  Hound 
Dog  Fan  Club  lists  27,000  members  in  the  area  served 
by   powerful   WKBW,   which   goes   south   to    Georgia, 
east  to  Nova  Scotia,  north  to  Quebec  and  Ontario. 
There  are  almost  800  local  chapters,  with  Buffalo, 
Toronto  and  Rochester  the  top  three  strongholds. 
Last  May,  9200  packed  Buffalo's  huge  Memorial 
Auditorium  to  see  and  hear  Hound  Dog,  plus  top 
recording  stars.  George  accounts  the  tremendous 
several -minute  ovation  given  him  his  greatest  thrill. 
To  listeners,  he's  just  the  most — to  say  the  least! 


Guests  such  as  Tonight's  Andy  Williams  comprehend 
George's  lingo.  It's  original,  but  "English  comes  first." 


By  JOAN   DAVIS 
of  "When  A  Girl  Marries' 


IF  YOU  HAVE  a  problem  you  can't  discuss  with  somebody  close  to  you,  TV 
Radio  Mirror  offers  the  opportunity  to  "talk  things  over"  with  Joan 
Davis  on  these  pages.  Joan;  who  is  Mary  Jane  Higby  in  private  life,  has 
long  proved  a  wise  and  sympathetic  friend  to  ABC  Radio  listeners  in  the 
daily  course  of  When  A  Girl  Marries,  and  she's  often  received  letters 
asking  for  advice  on  personal  problems.  We  hope  that  her  suggested 
solutions  to  the  problems  printed  here  may  be  of  help  to  many  readers. 
Letters  cannot  be  returned  or  answered  personally  by  mail,  but  if  you 
wish  to  write  to  Joan,  your  letter  may  be  among  those  answered  here 
each  month.  Address  letters  to  Joan  Davis,  TV  Radio  Mirror,  Box  1719, 
Grand  Central  Station,  New  York  17,  New  York. 


Dear  Joan  Davis: 

After  many  years  of  hard  struggle,  my  hus- 
band and  I  now  find  ourselves  in  a  position 
to  do  something  we  have  planned  to  do  ever 
since  our  marriage  so  long  ago— take  a  trip 
to  Europe.  In  fact,  through  saving  constant- 
ly to  make  this  dream  come  true,  we  have 
not  allowed  ourselves  a  real  vacation  in 
fifteen  years.  We  are  satisfied  that  we 
brought  up  our  two  daughters  the  very  best 
we  could.  We  have  given  them  what  extras 
we  could  afford,  but  nothing  has  been  spent 
on  ourselves.  It  was  enough  that  we  had 
this  dream  of  travel  to  look  forward  to. 
Now,  however,  as  we  begin  planning  our 
trip,  we  realize  our  older  daughter  very 
bitterly  resents  our  plans.  She  feels  that, 
since  we  have  this  money  put  aside,  we 
should  devote  it  to  sending  her  oldest  boy, 
our  oldest  grandchild,  to  college,  for  which 
he  will  be  ready  next  year.  My  daughter 
and  her  husband  cannot  afford  to  do  this, 
and  it  is  a  hard  problem  for  us  because  we 
love  them  all  very  dearly.  Yet  I  do  believe 
we  should  not  sacrifice  our  dream,  because 
we  are  old  and  it  would  not  be  a  case  of 
putting  it  off,  but  of  giving  up  the  whole 
idea.  My  husband  inclines  to  think  we 
should  let  the  boy  have  the  money  but,  al- 
though I  feel  selfish  at  times,  I  cannot  agree. 

Mrs.  F.  C. 

Dear  Mrs.  F.  C: 

Yes,  I  am  sure  there  are  many  who  would 
call  your  reluctance  selfish.  But,  in  spite  of 
that,  I  am  going  to  say  that  I  believe  your 
dream  ought  to  be  made  a  reality.  The  years 
of  marriage  and  maturity  behind  you  have 
surely  taught  you  one  of  life's  secrets — we 
cannot  really  shape  the  fate  even  of  those  we 
love  best.  Your  daughter  perhaps  has  made 
you  feel  that  if  you  withhold  financial  help 
from  your  grandson,  you  may  be  responsible 
for  damaging  his  future.  But  if  this  boy  is 
college  material,  and  if  his  desire  to  obtain  a 
good  education  is  sincere  and  well  founded, 
there  is  no  reason  why  he  should  not  join  the 
thousands  of  other  young  people  who,  each 
year,  manage  to  find  their  way  into  our  col- 
leges by  means  of  special  programs,  part-time 


jobs,  scholarships,  or  perhaps  even  by  delaying 
the  start  of  their  college  careers  for  a  couple 
of  years  in  order  to  earn  enough  money  to  get 
themselves  started.  Also,  I  cannot  see  how  your 
daughter  imagines  that  a  sum  of  money  suffi- 
cient to  see  you  and  your  husband  through  a 
brief  tour  of  Europe  would  stretch  very  far 
over  the  figure  four  years  of  college,  without 
scholarship  aid,  comes  to  nowadays.  It  appears 
to  me  that  in  a  year  or  two  your  grandson 
would  be  on  his  own  anyway.  Of  course  it 
would  be  wonderful  if  you  could  wholeheart- 
edly give  him  every  possible  help.  But  1  can- 
not see  the  justice  or  good  sense  in  forcing 
yourself  to  a  really  severe  sacrifice  which 
would  only  temporarily  benefit  him.  You  have 
already  sacrificed  and  worked  for  your  time 
of  pleasure,  and  you  have  every  right  to  enjoy  it. 

Dear  Joan  Davis: 

I  am  a  girl  of  foreign  birth,  and  so  long 
as  I  can  remember  I  have  hated  the  old- 
country  ways  of  my  family  and  have  prayed 
for  the  day  when  I  can  break  away  and  live 
my  own  way  as  a  real  American.  But,  as  luck 
would  have  it,  I  have  fallen  very  much  in 
love  with  a  young  man  with  the  very  same 
background.  I  do  love  him,  he  is  as  fine 
and  wonderful  as  one  could  dream,  but  I 
also  listen  to  my  mother's  warnings  that  if 
I  marry  him  I  will  never  become  a  real 
American.  Both  of  us  received  only  part  of 
our  education  here,  and  we  both  still  have 
accents  which  embarrass  me.  Although  my 
young  man  has  many  ambitions  and  ideas 
just  like  my  own,  he  is  very,  very  much  at- 
tached to  his  family.  My  mother  warns  me 
we  would  always  keep  a  closeness  to  them 
even  though  we  lived  in  our  own  place  and 
our  own  way.  I  do  not  want  my  children  to 
have  this  foreign  background!  Would  I  be 
happier  to  give  up  this  young  man? 

L.  B. 

Dear  L.  B.: 

For  the  moment,  L.B.,  forget  your  unborn 
children,  forget  your  family,  and  forget  your 
fiance's  family.  Think  only  of  what  you  mean 
when  you  say  /  have  fallen  very  much  in  love. 
You   remind  me  of  a  girl  I  knew,  long   ago. 


who  started  filling  her  hope  chest  with  heavy, 
elaborate  sterling  silver  and  formal  linen  when 
she  was  only  in  high  school,  preparing  for  the 
day  when  she  would  have  a  large,  expensive 
home  and  a  husband  to  match.  This  girl 
would  turn  down  even  a  movie  date  with  any 
boy  who  didn't  fit  into  her  preconceived  no- 
tion of  what  her  life  was  going  to  be  like. 
Eventually,  she  married  a  much  older  man, 
and  for  all  1  know  is  perfectly  happy,  but 
somehow  I  have  my  doubts.  The  point  I'm 
trying  to  make,  L.B.,  is  that  you  don't  fall  in 
love  with  an  idea,  but  a  person.  Foru;et  your 
own  fears  about  the  background  you  dislike, 
and  ask  yourself  first  of  all  if  this  is  really  the 
man  for  you.  It  speaks  well  for  him  that  he  is 
attached  to  his  family,  but  unless  he  is  so 
abnormally  attached  to  them  that  you  know 
they  will  be  running  your  home  and  your  life, 
it  seems  to  me  you  are  unduly  worried  about 
their  influence.  If  he  is  excessively  attached 
to  them,  then  once  again  it's  not  his  back- 
ground you  ought  to  be  worrying  about  but 
himself.  But  if  it's  just  a  normal  afi^ection, 
there's  no  reason  for  harm  to  come  to  your 
marriage  through  such  feelings.  You  and  he 
are  going  to  set  up  your  own  home,  build  your 
own  life,  establish  your  own  likes  and  habits 
and  traditions.  1  suspect  that  your  own  aversion 
to  what  you  call  "old-country"  ways  makes  you 
suspicious  of  every  harmless,  tolerant  gesture 
of  acceptance  your  fiance  makes  toward  his 
family.  Try  to  cultivate  a  live-and-let-live 
philosophy,  remembering  that  acceptance  and 
tolerance  are  basic  to  the  American  way  of  life 
you  want  for  the  family  you  are  about  to 
found.  If  you  relax  a  little,  step  back  and 
look  at  yourself  and  the  situation  you'll  see 
that  there  is  much  that  is  good,  valuable  and 
attractive  in  those  "old-country  ways."  And 
above  all,  don't  make  the  fatal  mistake  of  go- 
ing into  marriage  grimly  determined  that  your 
first  job  as  a  wife  will  be  to  drive  a  wedge  be- 
tween your  husband  and  his  family.  If  that's 
your  attitude,  then  I  emphatically  advise  you 
to  postpone  or  even  cancel  your  plans.  It's  y 
not  only  unfair  and  unhealthy,  but  pretty  in-  v 
dicative  that  if  you're  so  concerned  about  your  R 
fiance's  family,  you're  not  nearly  concerned 
enough  with  him  to  call  vour  feeling  love. 

15 


This  is  wliere  it  all  began 


By  MAXINE  ARNOLD 


San  Franciscans  wait  in  gala  mood  on  City  Hall  balcony- 
for  favorite  son  Hal  March — who's  arriving  from  the  air-B 
port  by   helicopter  (left)   with    Mayor  George   Christopher. 


Present  and  past  join  hands  for  a  truly  "happy  ending," 
as  Hal  introduces  his  lovely  wife,  Candy,  to  Frank  Morton, 
his  home-room  teacher  at  George  Washington  High  School. 


I 


TOSAHfR* 


Hal  March  and  his  wife  Candy  arrive  at  the  San   Francisco  airport  for  a  triunnphal  return  to  his  home  town 


Part  one  of  a  two-part  story 


I 


Home  again  in  San  Francisco, 
Hal  March  found  the  roots,  the  rich 
warm  earth  from  which  grew  his 
success  on  The  $64,000  Question 


IT  WAS  one  of  those  moments  you  dream  about, 
without  ever  quite  beheving.   As  he  himself  was  to  say. 
later  on,  when  he  had  recaptured  his  voice  and  his 
thoughts,  "You  watch  it  happen  to  others,  but  when  Lt 
happens  to  you — well,  you  just  don't  believe  it.  .  .  ." 

Foggy  of  throat  and  touched  beyond  words,  Hal  March 
stood  on  the  steps  of  the  City  Hall,  holding  the  key 
to  his  home  town.    Overhead  a  red  bunting  banner, 
half-a-story  high,   welcomed   him.     Never   before,   Hal 
March  knew,  had  there  been  a  banner   quite  like 
this    one    over    San    Francisco's    City    Hall. 


Continuedi 


17 


This  is  wliere 


Celebrating  return  to  San  Francisco,  Hal  March  is  fiown  by  heli- 
copter from  Son  Francisco  Airport  to  City  Hall.  In  "whirlybird" 
with. Hal,  San  Francisco's  Mayor  George  Christopher  and  pilot. 


J.M. 

HAL  MARCH 


After  formal,  greetings,  Hal  was  mobbed  and  cheerfully  signed 
autographs  (below).  Then  party  drove  off  with  Cyril  Magnin, 
president  of  Joseph  Magnin's  store.  In  car,  left  to  right,  are 
Candy,  Judy  Weld  (Miss  San  Francisco),  Hal,  Cyril  Magnin. 


{Continued,) 


On  steps  of  City  Hall,  Mayor  Christopher  hands 
gold  Key  to  the  City  to  Hal  March — home-town 
boy  who  made  good.  Soys  Hal,  "You  watch  it 
happening  to  you,  but  you  just  don't  believe  it." 


Words  were  his  business.  Words  and  an- 
swers. But  now  neither  the  words  nor  the 
answers  would  come.  .  .  . 

Only  a  few  blocks  from  where  he  now  stood, 
a  kid  with  restless  dreams  in  his  dark  eyes 
once  half-heartedly  dished  out  sweet  butter 
and  kosher  corned  beef  behind  the  counter  of 
his  dad's  delicatessen  store.  Living  for  the  day 
when  he  could  break  away — and  into  the  ex- 
citing world  of  show  business,  where  the 
happy  music  for  living  was  made.  .  .  . 

One  rainy  night — eighteen  years  ago  now — 
with  no  job  in  sight  Harold  Mendelson  had 
hitched  a  ride  to  Hollywood  to  try  his  luck 
in  that  world.  Taking  with  him  the  warm-if- 
fearful  wishes  of  his  own  family  .  .  .  and  the 
words  of  the  skeptical,  like  the  big  merchant 
on  their  street.  "You  an  actor?  What  makes 
you  think  you  can  act?"  he'd  scoffed.  "You'll 
wind  up  back  on  McAllister  Street  with  the 
rest  of  us.  Mark  my  words."  Heading  south 
that  night,  with  the  rain  flooding  down,  Hal 
had  asked  the  Big  Fellow  Upstairs  to  be  on 
his  side  .  .  .  and  to  go  with  him  all  the  way 


it  all  began... 


Hal's  high-school  counselor  and  home-room 
teacher,  Frank  Morton,  says,  "Frankly,  Hal 
didn't  require  much  counseling.  He  knew  defi- 
nitely what  he  wanted  to  do,  and  he  just  did  it." 


Now  he  was  back  home  in  triumph,  with 
all  the  trimmings. 

Half  an  hour  ago,  together  with  his  beau- 
tiful bride.  Candy,  he'd  landed  at  San  Fran- 
cisco's International  Airport,  into  a  battery  of 
reporters  and  photographers  and  television 
and  newsreel  cameras.  He  was  met  by  Mayor 
George  Christopher,  by  the  president  of  the 
Chamber  of  Commerce,  by  Frank  Morton,  his 
"home-room  teacher"  in  high  school,  by  Cyril 
Magnin,  his  host — and  by  a  whole  card-section 
of  cheering  teenagers  holding  signs  reading, 
"Welcome  Home,  Hal."  and  "San  Francisco 
Welcomes  Hal  March."  He'd  stepped  into  a 
red  helicopter  with  the  mayor,  and  landed  in 
the  plaza  in  front  of  the  City  Hall  .  .  .  and  the 
crowd  had  really  closed  in.  .  .  . 

Now  he  was  holding  a  king-sized  gold  key 
to  the  city  by  the  Golden  Gate,  and  speakers 
were  rising  and  warming  to  the  occasion,  one 
by  one.  Phrases  were  coming  through  to  him. 
Phrases  like  "San  Francisco's  own  native  son 
.  .  .  distinguished  star  .  .  .  achieved  the  peak 
of  his  profession  .  .  .  admired  by  millions  .  . 

Continued^ 


Next,  E.  L  Littlefield,  President  of  the  San  Francisco  Chamber 
of  Commerce,  adds  his  plaudits  of  Hal  at  City  Hall  (above). 
At  a  later  gothering,  Chief  of  Police  Frank  Ahearn  greets  Hal. 


Reunion  with  boyhood  friends  who  played  together  on  neigh- 
borhood football  team.  L.  to  r.  Sam  Elkind  (now  dramatic  coach), 
Jim  Diamond  (advertising  man),  Hoi,  and  Dr.  Edward  Susnow. 


This  is  where  it  all  began... 


(Continued) 


^---^-''-f-------'^^-^^ 


Here's    his    alma    mater — George    Washington    High 
School,  hie  was  student  body  prexy,  graduated  in  1937. 


Hal  at  18th  and  San  Carlos  Streets,  trying  to  remember 
in  which  house  he  was  born.  Neighborhood  has  changed. 


king  of  emcees."  Hal  would  never  forget  this  moment. 

In  his  turn,  he  hoped  the  right  words  would  come. 
To  Harold  Mendelson,  born  in  the  Mission  District  of 
San  Francisco,  none  of  this  seemed  real.  He  was  a 
spectator  watching  it  all  happen  to  somebody  else.  .  .  . 

When  had  the  dream  begun  to  become  reality? 
Where  does  a  man's  success  begin?    When  he  signed 


the  contract  for  Revlon's  fabulous  show,  The  $64,000 
Question  ...  or  before?  The  night  of  the  junior  high 
school  play — his  first  time  on  stage — when  he  heard 
the  happy  music  of  laughter  and  applause  for  him, 
saw  the  happy  faces  out  front,  all  watching  him? 

Did  it  begin  the  day  his  understanding  mother  wisely 
decided,  "All  right,  you  don't  (Continued  on  page  70) 


Hal  March  is  master  of  ceremonies  for  The  $64,000  Question,  as  seen  over  CBS-TV,  Tuesdays  at  10  PM,  EST,  sponsored  by  Revlon,  Inc. 


At  six,   with    beloved   father   Leon.  Thirteen,  a  Junior  High  footballer.  Hal  and  mom,  Mrs.  Ethel  Mendelson. 


20 


Touring  the  neighborhood  where  he  lived  as  a  child,   Hal   and   Candy  were   surrounded  with   shopkeepers  and 
neighbors  who  wished  them  well.  Here  in  front  of  what  used  to  be  his  father's  delicatessen,  now  a  launderette. 


Friend  and  counselor,  Dave  Apfelbaunri,  cut  Hal's 
as  a  boy.  He  predicted,  "You're  going  to  be  on  top 


hair 


First  show  job  was  at  President  Theater,  San  Francisco. 
Hal  revisited  theater,  joked  with  John  "Higgy"  Sambra. 


21 


<,^t» 


Your  favorite  redhead  gives  some 
per sori'to- person  answers  to 
questions  about  himself,  his  work, 
and  the  things  he  believes  in 


r 


GODFREY  ANSWERS  TEN  QUESTIONS 

1.  What  are  your  future  plans  for  TV? 

2.  What  do  you  expect  to  be  doing  20  years 
from  now? 

3.  What  do  you  think  of  American  women? 

4.  What   goal   in   life   should   people   have — 
success,  happiness? 

5.  What  principles  have  guided  you  to  success? 

6.  Who  is  the  most  memorable  woman  or  man 
or  entertainer  you  have  known? 

7.  What  is  the  most  diflficult  problem  you  have 
faced  ? 

8.  What  makes  you  angry? 

9.  What  advice  would  you  give  to  a  young  per- 
son who  wants  to  get  into  TV? 

10.   What  kind  of  world  do  you  hope  for  your 
children  ? 


By  MARTIN  COHEN 

To  DEFINE  a  word  is  not  always  easy.  To  define  a 
man  is  sometimes  impossible.    The  popular 
image  of  Arthur  Godfrey  is  that  of  a  great  enter- 
tainer, but  he  is  more,  much  more.  He  is  just  as  good 
a  neighbor  off  the  air  as  he  is  on.   His  hand  is 
extended  to  all  men.   Those  who  are  lucky  enough 
to  meet  him  learn  this,  and  quickly.   Take  Leonard 
S.  Mayer,  a  Wyoming  cowboy,  whose  job  it  was 
to  handle  contestants  at  a  rodeo. 

Arthur  spent  a  week  in  Cheyenne   and  the 
Wednesday-night  Godfrey  show  was  televised  at 
the  rodeo.    During  the  show  there  was  an  incident  not 
seen  on  TV.  A  drunk  came  flopping  into  the  act, 
and  it  wasn't  an  act.   The  drunk  was  shouting  and 
heading    for    Arthvir    with    threatening    gestures. 
Arthur,  in  cowboy  duds,  was  atop  a  horse.    Around 
his  neck  was  a  Budlemans  mike.    This  mike  acts 
as  an  independent  transmitter  and  it  was  live, 
for  Arthur  was  narrating.  He  saw  the  drunk  coming 
toward  him  but  couldn't  say  (Continued  on  page  67) 

Arthur  Godfrey  Time  is  heard  on  CBS  Radio,  M-F,  10  to  11:30 
A.M.,  and  seen  on  CBS-TV,  M-Th,  10:30  to  11:30  A.M.,  under 
multiple  sponsorship.  Arthur  Godfrey's  Talent  Scouts  is  seen 
over  CBS-TV,  Men.,  8:30  P.M.,  sponsored  by  Thomas  J.  Lipton, 
Inc.,  The  Toni  Company,  and  Paper-Mate  Pens.  The  Arthur  God- 
frey Show  is  seen  over  CBS-TV,  Wed.,  8  P.M.,  as  sponsored 
by  Pillsbury  Mills,  the  Kellogg  Company,  Bristol-Myers  (Ban. 
Bufferin,  Vitalis,  Ipana),  Toni  and  Paper-Mate.  (All  times  ESTi 


Godfrey,  the  man  of  multiple  interests,  is  not  often 
able  to  "just  sit  down  and  talk."  But  he  wishes 
he   could.     (Above)    On    plane.     (Below)    At   farm. 


Meet  Rosemary  Prinz,  record- 


Backyard  script  session.  Rosemary 
Prinz,  who  ploys  Penny  Hughes  on  As 
The  World  Turns,  and  pef  cocker. 


I! 


By  FRANCES  KISH 


WHEN  Rosemary  Prinz  was  only  seventeen  and  just  out  of 
Forest  Hills  High  School,  in  Forest  Hills,  New  York,  she  was 
playing  the  part  of  the  King's  mistress — the  mature  and  sophisti- 
cated Aurore — in  Diana  Barrymore's  touring  company  of  "Joan  of 
Lorraine."    Now  that  Rosemary  is  reaching  twenty-six    (next 
January  4),  a  married  woman  for  more  than  five  years,  she  plays  a 
fancy-free  seventeen-year-old!  For  she  is  the  delightfully  irrepressible 
Penny  Hughes,  in  the  CBS-TV  daytime  drama,  As  the  World  Turns. 
A  topsy-turvy  situation,  confusing  to   (Continued  on  page  75) 

Rosemary  Prinz  is  Penny  Hughes  in  As  The  World  Turns,  CBS-TV,  M-F,  1 :30  to  2  P.M. 
EST,  sponsored  by  The  Procter  &  Gamble  Company  for  Ivory  Snow,  Oxydol,  and  Crisco. 


Rosemary  keeps  the  "new  Penny" 
shiny-bright,  with  regular  beauty 
core   of   her  lovely   skin    and    hair. 


24 


J 


spinningf  telephone-talking  teenager  who  enchants  you  on  As  the  World  Turns 


Rosemary  and  husband  Michael  Thoma  are  proud 
of  the  new  ranch-type  house  they've  just  bought. 
Rosennary's  mother,  Virginia,  is  decor  "consultant." 


Commuter  by  car,  Rosemary  drives  35  miles  daily 
to  New  York  to  act  on  As  The  World  Turns.  Her 
new   home    is   in   foothills   of   Ramapo   Mountains. 


All-electrical  kitchen  has  on  in-the-wall  oven, 
a  boon  to  Rosemary,  who  is  fast  becoming  an 
expert  in  zesty  sauces,  roasts  and  fancy  cokes. 


25 


Meet  Rosemary  Prinz,  record-i   spinning,  telephone-talking  teenager  who  enchants  you  on  As  the  World  Turns 


^\J 


i'r 


,lH^ 


ly 


24 


em 

By  FRANCES  KISH 

I'orest  H.Us  High  School,  m  Forest  Hills,  New  York   she  wa. 
Penny  Hughes,  in  t^e  CBS-IV  davtime  !f     '  '^^"^''^""y  irrepressible 


Rosemary  and  husband  Michael  Thoma  are  proud 
of  the  new  ranch-type  house  they've  just  bought. 
Rosemary's  mother,  Virginia,  is  decor  "consultant." 


Homemalcer  Rosemary  lights  the  stage  for  dinner. 
Modern  home  has  many  interesting  decorative 
touches,   such   as  glass  table  and  patterned  wall. 


Rosemary  keeps  the  "new  Penny" 
shiny-bright,  with  regular  beauty 
core   of   her  lovely   skin    and   hair. 


Commuter  by  car,  Rosemary  drives  35  miles  daily 
to  New  York  to  act  on  As  The  World  Turns.  Her 
new   home   is   in    foothills   of   Ramopo   Mountains. 


All-electrical  kitchen  has  on  in-the-wall  oven, 
a  boon  to  Rosemary,  who  is  fast  becoming  an 
expert  in  zesty  sauces,  roasts  and  fancy  cakes. 


25 


1  /,'»--'  nil— 


By  DORA  ALBERT 


IT  WAS  about  sixteen  years  ago,  and  the  Jack  Baileys 
were  celebrating  the  first  Christmas  after  their  mar- 
riage. On  Christmas  morning,  Jack,  his  wife  Carol, 
and  a  newspaperman  went  to  call  on  a  poor  family 
selected  by  a  San  Diego  newspaper.  They  were  bearing 
gifts — a  large,  delectable  turkey,  and  a  basketful  of 
Christmas  goodies.  The  basket  had  been  provided  by  a 
Good  Will  club;  the  turkey  by  the  newspaper.  The 
Baileys  would  happily   have   contributed  both   turkey 


and   basket,   but   the   Baileys   just   couldn't   afford   to. 

All  his  life.  Jack  has  been  playing  Santa  Claus, 
whenever  he  could.  But,  that  particular  year,  he  was 
earning  $15.50  a  week,  as  junior  announcer  on  station 
KGB  in  San  Diego.  That  Christmas  day,  he  was  down 
to  his  last  two  dollars. 

Afterwards,  the  newspaperman  wished  Jack  and  Carol 
a  merry  Christmas,  and  left  to  join  his  own  family.  And 
Jack  said  to  Carol,  with  seeming  lightness  of  heart,  "Do 


Queen  For  A  Day  is  seen  over  NBC-TV,  M-F,  at  4  P.M. — and  heard  over  Mutual,  M-F,  at  11 :3D  A.M. — both  EST,  under  multiple  sponsorship. 


26 


GIFTS  of  ^e  HEART 


Jack  Bailey  knows  that 
gifts  from  the  heart  are  solid  gold- 
no  matter  what  the  price 


Jack,  on  Queen  For  A  Day,  is  a  Santa  Claus  in  mufti 
for  Mrs.  Dorsie  Redding,  a  widowed  storekeeper  from 
Union  Star,  Missouri.  Her  dearest  wish — to  remodel  Union 
Star  Christian  Church  to  accommodate  Sunday  School. 


you  know,  darling,  we  should  have  stolen  a  leg  of  that 
turkey!"  Carol  grinned,  her  blue-gray  eyes  lighting  up 
with  amiisement.  She  knew  perfectly  well  that  their 
Christmas  fund  that  year  just  wouldn't  cover  the  cost 
of  turkey.  Nor  would  it  pay  for  a  turkey  dinner  in  the 
kind  of  swanky  restaurant  to  which  Jack  would  have 
liked  to  take  her. 

"Time  for  our  Christmas  dinner,"  said  Jack,  as  they 
reached  a  cafe  which  served  Christmas  dinners  at  a 
reasonable  price  for  them. 

Once  seated  at  the  counter  inside,  he  stole  a  look  in 
his  wallet,  and  verified   the    {Continued  on  page  60) 


Sentimental  Jack  compares  solid-gold  replica  to  the 
old  watch  Carol  gave  him  for  Christmas  early  in 
their  marriage.  Below,  Jack  and  Carol  survey  their 
private  paradise  from  steps  of  their  Hollywood  home. 


PETER  DONAT'S 


ImMiJt 


Happy  the  bride  the  sun  shines  on.  The 
happy  couple  with  Peter's  mother  Marie 
and  father   Phillip.    And  then  the  cake. 


% 


?»^t«^_ 


For  lier,  he  would  pluck  the  moon  from  the  sky  .   .   . .  tie  up  the  world  in  ribbon, 
deck  it  with  bells  .   .   .  for  she  is  his  beloved  wife,  Michael  Learned  Donat 


Michael  and  Peter  made  many  furnishings  for 
their  honeymoon  home,  here  work  on  cabinet. 


Hard  work  makes  hearty  appetites.    Michael 
and  Peter  eat  a  mid-day  snack  at  coffee  table. 


By  MARIE  HALLER 


IT  ALL  STARTED  with  a  crossword  puzzle  .  .  . 
our  romance,  that  is.  And  though  we  never 
finished  the  puzzle,  we  did  finish  the  ro- 
mance," said  Peter  Donat.  "What  I  mean  is, 
the  romance  ended  in  marriage.  Well,  no,  I 
don't  really  mean  that  either.  Marriage  doesn't 
end  romance  .  .  .  rather,  it's  a  continuation  of 
romance.  Forgive  me  if  I  seem  somewhat  con- 
fused. I  know  what  I  mean,  but  I'm  not  sure 
I'm  getting  the  point  across.  You  see,  the  whole 
thing  is  a  little  new  to  me." 


Third  member  of  the  Donat  menage  is  Archie, 
a  feline  tyrant  adopted  on  Bermuda  honeymoon. 


Probably  no  truer  words  were  ever  spoken. 
At  the  time  Peter  Donat — Stephen  Markley  in 
CBS-TV's  The  Brighter  Day— aired  this  philos- 
ophy about  marriage,  it  was  exactly  one  week 
and  three  days  after  his  wedding.  Also,  he  was 
speaking  while  holding  the  hand  of  his  utterly 
entrancing  young  bride,  Michael  Learned  Donat. 
And  the  way  he  held  Michael's  hand  revealed 
considerably  more  than  any  number  of  well- 
chosen  words. 

The  crossword -puzzle  angle  of  their  romance 


See  IVext  Page- 


Crossword-puzzle   addicts    Michael    and    Peter 
were  first  drawn  to  each  other  by  shared  hobby. 


I 


PETER  DONAT'S 


Hoppy  Hie  bride  the  sun  shines  on.  The 
happy  couple  with  Peter's  mother  Marie 
ond  -father   Phillip.    And  then  the  calce. 


For  her,  he  would  pluck  the  moon  from  the  sky  .   .   . .  tie  up  the  world  in  rihbon, 
deck  it  with  bells  .  .  .  for  she  is  his  beloved  wife,  Michael  Learned  Donat 


Michael  and  Peter  made  many  furnishings  for 
their  honeymoon  home,  here  work  on  cabinet. 


Hard  work  makes  hearty  appetites.    Michael 
and  Peter  eat  a  mid-day  snack  at  coffee  table. 


By  MARIE  HALLER 


IT  ALL  STARTED  With  a  crossword  puzzle  .  .  . 
our  romance,  that  is.  And  though  we  never 
finished  the  puzzle,  we  did  finish  the  ro- 
mance," said  Peter  Donat.  "What  I  mean  is, 
the  romance  ended  in  marriage.  WeU,  no,  I 
don't  really  mean  that  either.  Marriage  doesn't 
end  romance  .  .  .  rather,  it's  a  continuation  of 
romance.  Forgive  me  if  I  seem  somewhat  con- 
fused. I  know  what  I  mean,  but  I'm  not  sure 
I'm  getting  the  point  across.  You  see,  the  whole 
thing  is  a  little  new  to  me." 


Third  member  of  the  Donat  menage  is  Archie, 
a  feline  tyrant  adopted  on  Bermuda  honeymoon. 


Probably  no  truer  words  were  ever  spoken. 
At  the  time  Peter  Donat — Stephen  Markley  in 
CBS-TV's  The  Brighter  Doy— aired  this  philos- 
ophy about  marriage,  it  was  exactly  one  week 
and  three  days  after  his  wedding.  Also,  he  was 
speaking  while  holding  the  hand  of  his  utterly 
entrancing  young  bride,  Michael  Learned  Donat. 
And  the  way  he  held  Michael's  hand  revealed 
considerably  more  than  any  number  of  well- 
chosen  words. 

The  crossword-puzzle  angle  of  their  romance 


See  Kext  Page- 


Crossword-puzzle   addicts    Michael   and    Peter 
were  first  drawn  to  each  other  by  shared  hobby. 


PETER  DONAT'S 


took  place  in  the  summer  of  1955  at  the  Shakespeare 
Festival  in  Stratford,  Connecticut.  Young  actor  Peter 
Donat  from  Nova  Scotia  was  there  to  take  part  in  a 
number  of  the  plays.  Young  American  actress  Michael 
Learned  was  a  student  in  the  Academy  which  is  run 
in  connection  with  the  festival.  Michael's  family  live  in 
near-by  Darien. 

"I  spotted  Michael  soon  after  I  arrived,"  Peter  con- 
fessed, "but  we  were  all  so  busy  I  couldn't  do  anything 
about  her  right  away.  Eventually  we  were  both  in  the 
same  production,  though — 'Julius  Caesar' — and  one  night 
while  waiting  for  our  cues  I  introduced  myself.  During 
the  small  talk  that  followed,  I  found  Michael  liked  to 
do  crossword  puzzles,  and  I  latched  onto  this  as  the 
excuse  for  our  first  evening  together.  That  puzzle  was 
never  finished.  If  I  had  had  any  idea  what  that  puzzle 
was  going  to  lead  to,  I  would  most  certainly  have  kept 
it  as  a  memento." 

It  was  a  wonderful  summer  for  both,  but  much  too 
soon  came  September  and  the  parting  of  the  ways. 
Michael  returned  to  London,  England,  where  she  was 
studying  dramatics.  Peter  headed  for  New  York  in 
search  of  TV  assignments.  Both  were  lonely.  Though 
they  had  discussed  marriage  during  their  brief  court- 
ship, they  had  decided  to  wait.  After  all,  they  reasoned, 
this  might  just  be  a  summer's  romance  .  .  .  not  the  real 
thing  at  all.  And,  of  course,  though  Peter  had  been  in 
many  TV  shows  over  the  course  of  a  couple  of  years 
and  had  had  a  lot  of  road  and  touring  company  expe- 
rience, he  didn't  at  that  moment  have  a  steady  job. 


Michael  and  Peter  Donat  are  themselves  designing  a 
nunaber  of  the  pieces  of  furniture  for  their  new  home. 
Plans  are  then  turned  over  to  professional  to  make. 


Then  it  happened.  He  was  called  to  audition  for  the 
role  of  Stephen  Markley,  a  yoting  assistant  minister  to 
the  Reverend  Dennis  in  The  Brighter  Day.  Immedi- 
ately upon  reading  the  script,  he  liked  the  role.  It  be- 
came doubly  important  to  get  this  role.  First,  it  would 
be  professionally  satisfying.  Second,  it  would  be  the 
steady  job  that  would  make  marriage  to  Michael 
possible. 

"If  I  may  digress  here  for  a  moment,"  said  Peter,  "I'd 
like  to  say  that  I  couldn't  have  been  luckier  if  I  had 
hand-picked  a  group  of  people  to  work  with.  Personally 
as  well  as  professionally,  the  cast  of  The  Brighter  Day 
are  tops.  They  made  me  feel  welcome  right  away  .  .  . 
they  all  seem  to  work  for  the  show,  not  for  themselves. 

"But  to  get  back  to  our  romance:  I  didn't  see  Michael 
again  until  April,  when  she  surprised  me  by  coming 
back  from  England  earlier  than  she  had  planned.  I'll 
never  forget  our  first  meeting  after  her  return.  What 
would  she  be  like?  Would  she  have  changed?  Would  we 
find  that  in  reality  ours  was  a  summer  romance?  How- 
ever, it  took  just  one  visit  with  each  other  to  know  .  .  . 
to  cast  aside  our  fears  and  start  building  for  the  future." 

In  short  order — the  following  June,  to  be  exact — they 
became  officially  engaged.  But  not  without  Peter's  being 
kept  in  suspense  again. 

"I  had  been  spending  the  weekend  with  Michael  and 
her  family  in  their  home  in  Darien,  Connecticut.  On 
Saturday  I  asked  Mr.  Learned's  permission  to  marry  his 
daughter.  Somewhat  to  my  surprise,  he  said  he'd  have 
to  think  about  it  and  give  me  his  answer  the  next  day. 
As  you  can  see,  it  turned  out  to  be  'yes,'  but  in  the 
meantime  I  put  in  a  pretty  miserable  Saturday  night. 
Michael  tried  to  assure  me  that  the  only  reason  her 
father  was  hesitating  was  because  he  was  not  sure  I 
could  'manage'  her.  However,  I  was  sure  Mr.  Learned 
still  remembered  the  time  we  got  put  in  jail  together. 

"It  happened  in  Stratford  when  the  Leameds  took 
Michael  and  me  to  spend  the  night  in  Darien.  The 
Learneds  had  driven  up  in  an  MG,  a  car  not  exactly 
designed  to  hold  four  people.  However,  Michael  and  I 
perched  on  the  baggage  carrier.  Such  overcrowding  of 
a  car  is  frowned  upon  by  the  police  department.  In 
nothing  flat  we  found  ourselves  'in  residence'  in  a  local 
jail  somewhere  between  Stratford  and  Darien.  It  took 
several  hours  before  we  could  arrange  for  another  car 
and  sufficient  funds  for  bail. 

"So  now  you  see  why  I  was  sure  Mr.  Learned  was 
holding  all  this  against  me.  After  all,  I  was  more  than 
somewhat  responsible  for  his  having  spent  time  in  jail! 

"However,  the  following  day  he  put  me  out  of  my 
misery  and  gave  his  permission  for  me  to  take  care  of 
Michael  for  the  rest  of  our  lives." 

Though  Michael  had  first  thought  she  would  like 
either  a  Christmas  or  spring  wedding,  as  time  went  on 
these  dates  seemed  further  and  further  away  and  the 
reasons  for  waiting  less  and  less.  So  a  completely  new 
date  was  arrived  at,  and  on  September  8,  1956,  Michael 
and  Peter  were  married  in  a  lovely  home  garden 
ceremony. 

"Let  me  tell  you  about  the  minister,"  chimed  in 
Michael.  "He  was  the  son  of  the  minister  who  married 
Mother  and  Dad.  And  even  though  he  didn't  know  me 
at  all,  and  had  been  just  a  boy  when  he  knew  Mother 
and  Dad,  he  went  to  great  lengths  to  rearrange  his 
schedule  to  come  from  Boston,  Massachusetts,  to  of- 
ficiate. All  in  all,  it  was  a  wonderful  wedding  .  .  .  the 


30 


%. 


i 


^>  1> 


Rehearsal  time  for  cast  of  The  Brighter  Day.  Stephen 
Markley  (played  by  Peter  Donat)  discusses-  plot  with 
Rev.  Dennis  (Blair  Dovies).  Donat  plays  young  minister. 


minister,  the  day,  the  groom — ^everything  was  wonder- 
ful. And  to  add  to  the  excitement,  a  cable  of  best  wishes 
was  received  from  Peter's  famous  uncle,  Robert  Donat, 
the  English  actor.  You  know  the  way  everything  is  sup- 
posed to  go  wrong  just  before  a  wedding?  Well,  in  our 
case  it  didn't.  ...  no  hitches,  no  complications." 

"Which  is  more  than  you  can  say  for  our  honeymoon," 
grinned  Peter.  "Michael  has  a  great  devotion  to  animals, 
all  animals.  Shortly  after  we  arrived  in  Bermuda,  Mi- 
chael fotmd  a  stray  cat,  probably  one  of  the  mangiest 
animals  you've  ever  laid  eyes  on.  Really  three-quarters 
starved.  Before  I  knew  what  was  happening  I  found 
myself  buying  hamburger  for  Michael  to  sneak  to 
'Archie'  in  an  unobtrusive  spot  behind  the  hotel.  Then 
the  next  thing  I  foimd  was  Archie  making  himself  at 
honie  in  our  room — somewhat  to  the  dismay  of  the  hotel 
management,  who  assured  us  that  tmless  we  intended 
to  keep  the  cat  we  would  have  to  get  rid  of  it  im- 
mediately. By  this  time  getting  rid  of  Archie  was  out 
of  the  question.  We  had  become  as  attached  to  him  as 
he  had  to  us. 

"Now  all  three  of  us  are  comfortably  estabhshed  in 
our  four-and-a-half-room  apartment  in  New  York. 
Actually  the  apartment  has  been  mine  for  the  last  three 
years.  Now  Michael  and  I  are  having  great  fun  re- 
decorating and  furnishing  to  suit  our  immediate  and 
future  needs.  I  received  expert  training  in  the  hammer- 
and-saw  department  with  the  first  touring  group  I  was 
with,  whUe  attending  Acadia  University  in  Nova  Scotia. 
So  most  of  the  shelving  and  bookcases  have  been,  or  will 
be,  made  by  me. 

"On  the  whole,  we're  going  about  the  business  of 
home-making  slowly,  so  that  with  any  luck  we'll  avoid 
serious  mistakes.  After  all,  Michael  and  I  have  a  life- 
time ahead  of  us  ...  a  lot  of  crossword  puzzles  to  be 
done,  a  lot  of  family  to  be  raised,  a  lot  of  fun  to  be  had 
together.    In  fact,  a  lifetime  to  devote  to  our  romance." 

The  Brighter  Day  is  seen  on  CBS-TV,  M-F,  4  P.M.  EST,  as  spon- 
sored by  The  Procter  &  Gamble  Co.  for  Cheer,  Gleam,  and  Crisco. 


Commuting  student  Pat  Boone  drives  trom  Leonio,  N.  J., 
to  Columbia  University  in  New  York  City — hustles  home 
to  be  With  his  wife  Shirley,  daughters  Cherry  and  Linda. 


They  Swoon 
for  BOOM 

Two  years  and  six  million  records  since 

Lady  Luck  tapped  Pat  Boone    .    .    . 

and  modest  Pat  still  wonders,  "Why  me  ?" 


By  GLADYS  HALL 

ON  A  DAY  in  February  of  1955,  young  Pat  Boone 
made  his  first  recording,  "Two  Hearts,  Two 
Kisses,"  for  Dot  Records.   Phenomenally — for  a  first 
record  made  by  a  virtually  unknown  youngster 
from    Nashville,    Tennessee — it    hit    the    Top    Ten. 
"Ain't  That  a  Shame,"  his  second  record,  became 
the  No.  1  best  seller  in  the  country. 

"When  you  consider  that  hundreds  of  records  are 
released  every  week  in  the  year,  it's  a  miracle  to 
me  for  anybody  to  have  a  hit  record,"  says  Pat.    "But 
to  have  your  first  record  make  the  Top  Ten,  and 
your  second  become  the  No.  1  best  seller — why,  I 
asked  myself  in  wonder  and  in  humility,  why  me?" 

In  the  short  space  of  time  between  then  and  now, 
more  than  6,000,000  successively  successful  Boone 
records  have  been  sold.   The  dark,  twenty-two-year- 
old  young  man  who  sings  rock  'n'  roll  in  a  belting 
baritone,  and  ballads  in  a  soft  voice  with  a  whispery 
quality,  has  been  named  "Most  Promising  Male 
Vocalist"  by  both  Billhoard  and  Cash  Box  magazines. 
As  a  frequent  guest  (almost  a  regular  nowadays)  on 
Arthur  Godfrey's  CBS-TV  (Continued  on  page  78) 

Pat  Boone  often  guests  on  the  Arthur  Godfrey  shows  (see  page  23) 


Both  Shirley  and  Pat  are  regular  church- 
goers.  Drive  Sundays  to  New  York  church. 


Pat  and  his  famous  father-in-law,  Red 
Foley,  star  of  TV  show  Ozark  Jubilee. 


Youngest  Boone  is  Deborah  Ann,  who 
arrived  on  earth  last  September  22. 


f 


V 


r 


FIVIS  on  fhe  UpM 


Like  everyone  else  at  20th  Century-Fox,  Richord  Egan  and 
Debra  Paget — his  co-stars  in  "Love  Me  Tender" — have 
found  good  reason  to  change  first  opinions  of  Presley. 
Director  Robert  Webb  (below,  left)  smiles  at  Elvis,  too. 


Let  the  critics  howl!     Here,  for  the 
first  time  anywhere,  is  an  honest 
and  friendly  appraisal  of  Elvis  Presley, 
the  1956  hurricane  of  show  business 


Debra's  mother,   Mrs.  Griffin,   is  impressed   by  his 
courtesy  to  her  and  his  devotion  to  his  own  parents. 

By  EUNICE  FIELD 


THE  NAME  on  the  door  of  the  portable  dressing 
room  reads:  "Elvis  Borgnine."  No,  that's  no 
mistake — ^that's  just  one  part  of  what  they  mean, 
when  they  say  that  the  rock  'n'  roll  boy  has  set  his 
stamp  on  Hollywood  and  the  old  town  will  never  be 
the  same  again.   For  it's  not  only  the  teenagers 
who  are  ga-ga  over  Presley;  his  fans  and  supporters 
are  springing  up  in  the  most  surprising  q»arters. 

Oscar -winning  Ernest  Borgnine  is  a  fair  sample. 
The  pudgy  star  of  "Marty"  was  resting  between 
scenes  of  his  new  film,  '"niree  Brave  Men,"  while  on 
another  part  of  the  Twentieth  Century-Fox  lot, 
Elvis — who  has  already  been  declared  a  champion 

Continued  w 


Smash  hit  on  TV — Presley  with  two  band  members 
on  The  Ed  Sullivan  Show,  his  close  friend,  Nick 
Adams,  and  his  manager,  Col.  Tom  Parker  (right). 


Movie  money  in  the  bank  now,  too.  And,  always, 
the  cheering  fans!  Below,  Elvis  fulfills  special  re- 
quest for  an  on-the-back  autograph — in  lipstick. 


am  on  Hie  Upbeat 


{Continued) 


Presley  fan  club  officers  Barbara  Katsaros  and  Almira 
Jiminez  tell  the  world  how  they  feel — in  costumes  they 
themselves  designed  and  sewed  with  love  in  every  stitch. 


in  the  fields  of  television  and  recording— was  making 
his  acting  debut  in  "Love  Me  Tender."  A  knock  came 
on  the  door  and  Borgnine  admitted  a  balding  man, 
almost  as  thick-set  as  himself. 

"I'm  Colonel  Tom  Parker,"  the  man  said,  "Elvis 
Presley's  manager."  He  handed  the  actor  an  album  of 
records.  "The  kid  heard  you've  been  defending  his 
singing,  so  he  sent  these  over."  The  Colonel  lit  a  cigar, 
eyeing  Borgnine  shrewdly.  "He  was  aching  to  come 
himself,"  he  added. 

"Then  why  didn't  he?"  demanded  the  genial  Borg- 
nine. 

"Because,  sir^  he  thinks  you're  a  great  artist— and 
he's  too  doggone  shy.  You  know  what  he  said?  'I'd  get 
cold  feet  as  soon  as  I  got  to  his  door.'  That's  why  he 
didn't  come." 

Borgnine  chuckled.  "We'll  have  to  do  something  about 
that.   TeU  him  to  stop  by  tomorrow,  if  he  can." 

And  so,  when  Elvis  Presley,  awed  and  respectful, 
approached    that    dressing    room,    he    could    hear    his 


"N^  >^- 


i 


1^' 


t     \ 


C 


Back  in  Tupelo,  Miss.,  where  Elvis  was  born,  Mayor  James  L  Ballard  presented 
hinn  with  a  guitar-shaped  "key  to  the  city,"  as  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Vernon  Elvis  Presley 
proudly  hovered  near  their  famous  son.  It  was  still  another  kind  of  a  dream  come 
true,  when  Elvis  got  a  chance  to  ride  a  horse  in  his  new  20th  Century-Fox  film. 


million-selling  "Hoiin'  Dog"  blaring  out  a  welcome — 
and  painted  on  the  door  was  a  great  artist's  tribute  to 
a  bright  new  rising  star:  Elvis  Borgnine! 

But  young  Elvis  Presley  is  rated  highest  of  all  by 
those  who  know  him  best.  Aside  from  his  circle  of 
family  and  friends,  this  includes  people  who  can  usually 
be  coimted  on  to  take  an  objective  view — musicians 
with  whom  he  has  recorded,  TV  personalities  on  whose 
shows  he  has  made  guest  appearances,  his  co-stars  of 
"Love  Me  Tender,"  technicians,  maintenance  people, 
and  even  the  ofl&ce  help  who  have  had  occasion  to  work 
for  him.  As  an  instance,  there  is  his  experience  at 
Twentieth's  Legal  Department,  headed  by  Frank  Fer- 
guson. Elvis  ai'rived  to  sign  his  contract  with  two 
strikes  against  him,  as  far  as  the  girls  in  that  office  were 
concerned.  It  seems  the  Colonel  had  asked  that  the 
entire  contract  be  typed  in  capital  letters,  triple-spaced, 
instead  of  the  simple  double-spaced  fomi  they  ordinarily 
used  in  typing  contracts. 

"It's  not  the  extra  work,"  one  {Continued  on  page  62) 


i. 


J^ 


^^:!? 


^ii'i 


ui 


:',H::.:v:i-}!?-s    :•  1  • 


'^. 


As  Annie  Oakley,  she  can  outshoot 
any  man  .  .  .  yet,  at  home,  Gail  Davis 
is  as  feminine  as  a  frilly  petticoat 

By  BUD  GOODE 

A  NNiE  Oakley's  Gail  Davis  has  a  new  home.  The  pert, 
f\    blond  sharpshooter  with  the  gray  eyes  set  her 

sights  on  a  hoine  of  her  own  five  years  ago,  when 
she  first  came  to  Hollywood.  The  dream  was  a  long  time 
coming  true,  but  realized  it  was.  Gail  now  owns  a 
six-room  bungalow,  comfortable  and  congenial  as  an  old 
friend,  with  its  substantial  couch  and  overstufTed  living- 
room  chairs.  The  pink  and  white  bedroom  is  dainty  and 
feminine  as  a  little  girl.  There  is  a  TV -hi-fi  phonograph 
area  built  for  "touch-control"  living.  The  kitchen,  with 
its  copper  and  brass,  expresses  Gail's  love  for  Western 
touches — even  the  sweet  potatoes  on  the  tiled  kitchen 
shelf  grow  in  hand-wrought  copper  mugs. 

The  grounds  aroimd  Gail's  new  home  easily  could  be 
used  as  background  for  one  of  Flying  A  Productions' 
Annie  Oakley  episodes.  The  front  half  of  the  lot  is 
separated  from  the  back  by  a  rustic  dell  with  a  small 
brook  running  through  it.  It  is  blanketed  with  ferns.  A 
footbridge  of  wood,  hand  hewn,  {Continued  on  page  68) 

Gail  Davis  stars  in  Annie  Oakley,  produced  by  Gene  Autry's  Flying 
A  Pictures.  It  is  seen  over  WABC-TV  ( New  York ) ,  on  Fridays,  at 
6  P.M.  EST.  See  local  newspapers  for  time  and  station  in  your  area. 


On  tour,  Gail  wears  tailored  costumes — but  she 
packs  'em  with  loving,  womanly  skill.  At  home,  she 
prefers  housecoats,  particularly  when  breakfasting 
with  Mother  and  sister  Shirley  in  the  new  kitchen. 


Modern:  Gail's  hi-fi  and  TV,  her  calf-bound  set  of  Annie  Oakley  scripts. 
Strictly  Western:  Horse-stall  hinges  on  the  tall  cabinet,  the  bronze  head  of 
boss-man  Gene  Autry,  whose  Flying  A  Pictures  produces  the  popular  series. 


Shirley  visits  Gail  every  summer — 
Gail  makes  frequent  flying  trips  to 
the  family  home  in  Little  Rock,  Ark. 


CHRISTMAS  wwh  STARS 


40 


'Twas  a  night  of  tree  and  tinsel,  ribbons  and  wrappings,  and  stars  bearing  gifts  to  Margaret  E. 
Songster,  who  had  gifted  them  with  words  throughout  the  years.  Seated  on  the  floor  are  Abby 
Lewis,  Rosa  Rio,  Margaret,  Elaine  Rost.  Background:  Corl  Frank  (seated),  Bill  Post,  Jr.,  Hope  Winslow, 
Mary   K.   Wells,   John   Se.ynnour,    Leon   Jonney,   Johnny    Winters,    Lorna    Lynn,    Patsy    O'Shea    (seated). 


I 


Planning  a  party  is  half  the  fun.  Patty  Pinch, 
who's  worked  with  Margaret  since  1941,  and 
good  friend  Marjorie  Ryan  help  with  invitations. 


N 


o  NEED  to  add  RSVP.  Margaret  Sangster 
was  inviting  her  friends  to  share  her 
first  Christmas  in  the  large,  gracious 
Colonial  home  in  EJnglewood,  New  Jersey. 
She  knew  they  would  all  come  .  .  .  the  actors, 
directors,  everyone.  They  were  friends  of  long 
standing.  For  fourteen  years,  Margaret  has 
been  adapting  the  experiences  of  real  people 
for  radio  scripts  on  My  True  Story.  For-  five 
years,  she  has  created — out  of  the  insight  that 
,  comes  only  from  a  full  life  and  a  curious  mind 
— ^the  original  stories  narrated  by  Hope  Wins- 
low  on  Whispering  Streets.  The  finest  actors 
from  radio  and  television,  Hollywood  and 
Broadway,  had  brought  her  stories,  a  different 
one  each  day,  to  life  on  ABC  Radio.  Actors 
and  audience  have  always  sensed  the  wit  and 
wisdom,  the  love  of  people  and  of  life  that  go 
into  each  script.  In  a  way,  this  was  a  re- 
hearsal for  the  family  Christmas  each  guest 
would  enjoy  later  in  the  holiday  season.  And 
the  people  who  create  these  radio  dramas  have 
a  family  warmth  for  each  other — and  especi- 
ally for  Margaret,  who  wrote  the  happiest 
words  of  aU:  "Merry  Christmas  .  .  .  welcome." 

My  True  Story  is  heard  over  ABC  Radio,  M-F,  at  10 
A.M.  Whispering  Streets  is  heard  on  ABC  Radio,  M-F. 
at  10:45  A.M.  Both  EST,  under  multiple  sponsorship. 


Author  Margaret  Sangster  opens 

her  home — and  her  heart — to  her  friends  from 

My  True  Story  and  Whispering  Streets 


Margaret  decorates  the  first  tree  in  her  new  home.    She  placed 
it  before  the  fireplace,  leaving  Santa  to  manage  as  best  he  could. 


See  Next  Page  W 


41 


CHRISTMAS  widi  STARS 


(Continued) 


miL' 

HBr<%'   /F               '^TK 

.             4 

1  ' 

Welcome!  Margaret  greets  Elaine  Rost,  Patsy  O'Shea  and 
Hope  Winslow  on  one  hand,  and,  on  the  other,  Abby  Lewis 
and  her  actor-husband  John  Seymour.  Later,  Patsy,  Lorna 
Lynn  and  Abby  nnet  "Major"  and  "Princess  Rose/'  ex- 
claimed over  special  "powder  room"  for  Margoret's  cats. 


Hostess  Margaret  iri,troduces  her  two  good  friends,  Leon 
Janney,  who  doubles  in  radio  and  on  Broadway,  and 
Carl  Frank,  who  was  the  original  Young  Dr.  Malone. 
Below,  Hope  Winslow,  narrator  of  Whispering  Streets, 
admires  the  fountain — it  works! — in  Margaret's  office. 


42 


k.v 


mm. 


wVpfc 


Christmas  means  carols,  and  Rosa  Rio  and  Johnny  Winters,  organists  for  My  True  Story 
and  Whispering  Streets,  were  on  hand  to  provide  the  music.  Gathered  'round  the  piano: 
Bill  Post,  Jr.  (seated),  My  True  Story  director  Martin  Andrews,  Jim  Boles,  script  editor  John 
Ward  Mitchell,  Henry  Barnard,  Patsy  O'Shea,  Margaret,  Elaine  Rost,  John  Milton  Williams, 
Abby  Lewis,  John  Seymour,  Hope  Winslow,   Carl  Frank,  Lorna  Lynn,  and  Mary  K.  Wells. 


Margaret's  guests  are  active,  versatile.  Jim  Boles  has  a 
new  movie  role,  Henry  Barnard  is  on  Broadway.  Mary  K. 
Wells  is  on  TV's  Love  Of  Life,  Lorno  Lynn's  on  Monitor. 


Director  Martin  Andrews,  Carl  Frank,  Hope  Winslow  and 
Bill  Post,  Jr.  have  often  followed  Margaret's  scripts.  To- 
day, the  words  were  their  own — "Thanks... and  bless  you." 


43 


Nutley,  New  Jersey,  knows  Judy  Johnson  as  Mrs.  Mort  Lindsey, 
the  girl  they  meet  in  supernnarket  with  Bonnie  ond  baby  Steven. 


A  SONG    FOR    ROBERT  Q 

Judy  Johnson  finds  it's  quite  a  job  to  juggle  singing  for  Lewis  with  being  a  housewife,  too 

By  GREGORY  MERWIN 


JUST  as  for  many  other  young  housewives,  at  6:30 
A.M.  there  is  a  baby  to  change  and  feed,  breakfast 
to  be  made,  another  child  to  get  off  to  school,  a  trip 
to  the  supermarket,  the  laundry,  another  meal,  clothes 
to  pick  up  at  the  cleaner's,  miaybe  a  pie  to  bake,  a  spot 
to  scrub  out  of  the  carpet,  another  meal — until  5:30. 


At  5:30  P.M.,  Mrs.  Mort  Lindsey,  girl  housewife,  drives 
to  the  CBS  studio  in  Manhattan  to  become  Judy 
Johnson,  girl  singer. 

Judy  sings  on  The  Robert  Q.  Lewis  Show.  She's  a  five- 
foot-three  beauty,  with  golden-red  hair  and  brown  eyes 
designed  to  throw  a  long  beam.  (Continued  on  page  76) 


44 


Judy  Johnson  sings  on  The  Robert  Q.  Lewis  Show,  as  heard  over  CBS  Radio,  both  on  weekday  evenings,  Monday  through  Friday,  from 
8  to  9  P.M.  EST,  and  on  Saturday  mornings,  from  11 :05  to  12  noon  EST,  under  multiple  sponsorship. 


Mort  and  Judy  Lindsey  love  their  suburban  life  near  New 
York.  They  live  in  a  75-year-old  house,  described  by 
Judy  as  "early  cracker-box,"  with  lovely  pillared  porch. 


Family  sing  is  just  as  much  fun  as  belting  out  a  number 
for  the  Robert  Q.  Lewis  radio  audience.  Judy  has  been 
a   professional  singer  since  she  was  in   her  teen  years. 


^/FftV-^ 


Playtime  and  bedtime  for  youngest 
Lindsey.  Young  Steven  was  born 
last    May,    started    teething    early. 


All  the  Lindseys  love  to  eat.  That 
goes  for  Steven,  and  also  for  four- 
foots  and  the  squirrels  in  the  attic. 


Ballerina  Bonnie  looks  like  a  story- 
book Alice  in  Wonderland,  loves  to 
have  mother  Judy  help  her  dress  up. 


Family  music  fest:  Gay  plays  piano  to  accompany  her  two  best  beaus  on 
the  guitar.  (Right)  Dick  Coogan  with  Bonnie  Bartlett,  his  TV  wife  on  Love 
Of  Life.     "He  doesn't  need  to  enjoy  kissing  Bonnie  so  much,"  teases  Go'y. 


Richard  Coogan  s  wife 

and  son  know  his 

Love  Of  Life  very  well   ... 

and  so  do  his  fans 

from  Hoboken  to  Hawaii 

By  MARY  TEMPLE 


WHILE  Richard  Coogan  was  making 
the  20th  Century-Fox  movie, 
"The  Revolt  of  Mamie  Stover," 
a  while  back,  he  had  to  take  a  brief 
leave  from  being  Paxil  Raven  in  the 
CBS-TV  daytime  drama,  Love  Of  Life. 
There  was  small  chance,  however,  of 
forgetting  his  television  show  for  long. 
Barely  had  he  set  foot  on  the  soil  of 
Honolulu,  for  the  movie  location  shots, 
when  the  man  from  Twentieth,  who  had 
come  to  meet  him,  hustled  him  to  the 
local  television  studio,  remarking  casu- 
ally, "You're  on  the  air  this  noon." 
Dick  stared  at  him.  "What  do  you  mean, 
I'm  on  the  air?"  The  man  chuckled. 
"You  are  being  interviewed  about  your 
life  on  television,  pal,"  he  said.  "Not 
about  'Mamie  (Continued  on  page  73) 


46 


Always  a  favorite  with  TV  viewers  of  all  ages,  Dick 
and  Gay  are  frequently  stopped  on  the  stre,et  to  give 
autographs.    Here  with  fans  and  cocker,   "Shadow." 


"Shadow"  gets  a  grooming,  modern-style,  as  Dick  does 
the  job  and  Say  and  Rick  look  on.  Coogans  ore  fond 
of  pets,  have  parakeets,  canary,  and  poodle,   "Misty." 


Young  Rick  Coogon  takes  to  sports  like  Presley  to 
rock  'n'  roll.  He  skis  well,  swings  a  wicked  bat, 
rides,    and    is   developing    into    a    talented    golfer. 


Self-taught  artist  Dick  was  offered  $35  for  his  sec- 
ond painting,  a  landscape.  Decided  it  should  be 
kept  in  the  family  to  represent  "Early  Coogan"  style. 


Love  Of  Life  is  seen  over  CBS-TV,  M-F,  12:15  P.M.  EST,  as  sponsored  by  Whitehall  Pharmacal  Co.,  Boyle-Midway,  Inc.,  and  Chef  BoyArDee. 


47 


EDWARD^' NI6HTMARI 


-^S-^  -  '^^r^ 


'r 


Edwards  and  announcer  Bob  Warren  carefully  go  over 
script  (above).  Surprised  subject  of  This  Is  Your  Life, 
Dore  Schary  thought  Bob  Taylor  was  to  be  the  subject. 


CERTAIN  FRIENDS  and  admirers  of  Ralph  Edwards 
have  long  felt  that  their  hero's  greatest  accom- 
plishment is  the  fact  that  he  sleeps  well.   Others 
maintain   that   Edwards   simply   pretends   to   sleep 
well  and  is  actually  the  victim  of  hideous  night- 
mares.     In   these   nightmares,    Edwards    is    acting 
as  master  of  ceremonies  on  This  Is  Your  Life,  as 
usual.   But,  instead  of  a  willing  subject,  the  central 
figure  suddenly  rebels  and  swings  at  Edwards. 
The  dream  figure  doesn't  want  to  have  his  life 
portrayed.      To    the    cynics   who    charge    Edwards 

Ralph  Edwards'  This  Is  Your  Life  is  seen  on  NBC-TV,  Wed.,  10  P. 


It  hasn't  happened— but  what  if  a  This  is  Your  Life  subject  toolc  a  swing  at  Rafph? 


Casey  Stengel,  manager  of  world  champion  New  York 
Yankees,  met  the  glad  tidings  that  this  was  his  life 
with  marked  disgruntlement,  finally  warmed  up  to  the 
project.  Above:  Ralph  Edwards,  Dei  Webb  (co-owner 
of  Yankees),  Ol'  Case  and  handsome  wife  Edna  Stengel. 


By  JOHN   MAYNARD 


with  suffering  tortures  of  apprehension  in  night- 
mares,  he   has   a   short   answer:    "Fiddlefaddle!" 

Ralph  Edwards,  whose  show  currently  seems 
to  be  set  to  run  approximately  forever,  enjoys  a 
fine  state  of  mental  and  nervous  health.    This  is 
based  on  one  abiding  faith — ^the  essential  stability 
of  the  American  reflex.    He's  convinced  nobody 
will  swing  at  him.   On  second  thought,  make 
that  two  abiding  faiths,  the  other  being  supreme 
confidence  in  his  research  staff  and  methods. 

Edwards  says,  "If  our  (Continued  on  page  66) 


WW 

^Bp^k,  1 

n 

^ 

k     -^^^i 

•T      "^^ 

/7 

i 

^i^V.     -i^Bi 

Jf        ^^^^H 

x/^  Jk 

il'JTr  i 

Hj^^ 

n»-    /mH 

1 

EST,  sponsored  by  The  Procter  &  Gamble  Company  for  Prell  and  Crest. 


On  This  Is  Your  Life  program,  Edwards  confronted 
Dore  Schary  with  Margaret  O'Brien,  Anne  Francis 
and   Robert  Ryan,  all  stors  whose  careers  he  helped. 


49 


I.  A  happy  day  indeed  for  Helen  Ennerson,  the  day  on  which  her  son  Mickey  gave 
Roberta  Wilcox  the  diamond  which  officially  confirnned  their  engagement.  Sister 
Kim  isn't  old  enough  for  romance,  but — like  most  teenagers— she's  in  love  with 
love  and  thinks  a  wedding  in  the  family  is  "the  most."  Governor  Lawrence  Walker 
joins  in  the  family  rejoicing,  with  regret  that  he  and  hielen  cannot  marry,  too. 


50 


To  Helen  Emerson,  this  holiday  season  ends  a 
year  marked  by  much  happiness  and  marred  by 
many  threats  to  the  smooth,  serene  way  of  life 
she  has  always  believed  in. 

As  a  mother,  she  regards  with  joy  the  successful 
outcome  of  son  Mickey's  growing  adoration  of 
Roberta  Wilcox.  The  two  youngsters,  friends  for 
so  long,  seemed  only  a  few  weeks  ago  to  be  on  the 
verge  of  splitting  up.  The  bickering,  the  angry  words, 
came  about  very  unexpectedly — almost  as  though  both 
Mickey  and  Roberta  were  unaware  that  their  feel- 
ings for  each  other  had  passed  from  adolescent  puppy 
love  to  a  mature  relationship.  As  with  many  lovers' 
quarrels,  it  all  started  with  another  woman. 

Ginger  Lambert  was  her  name,  and  she  lived  up 
to  it.  A  beautiful,  animated  girl.  Ginger  worked  for 
Fay  Gillen  in  Fay's  beauty  salon.  Ginger  had  met 
Mickey  casually  some  time  before,  but  he  had  no 
idea  that  she  considered  him  infinitely  attractive. 
Mickey,  on  his  side,  had  eyes  only  for  Roberta — 
until  the  trouble  started. 

Tom  Davis,  Mickey's  friend,  decided  to  move  into 
a  room  rented  from  the  Harper  sisters — right  in 
Roberta's  and  Mickey's  neighborhood.  On  the  day 
when  he  was  loading  all  his  books  and  belongings  for 
the  trip  to  the  Harpers',  he  ran  into  Roberta,  who 
offered  to  use  her  car  as  a  convenient  moving  van. 
Afterwards,  it  was  the  most  natural  thing  in  the 
world  for  Roberta  and  Tom  to  go  to  the  local  soda 
shop   together.    But   Mickey   found   out,    and,    in   a 


childish  outburst  of  temper,  stamped  his  way  home. 

As  though  an  intuitive  message  had  been  flashed, 
it  was  this  precise  moment  that  Ginger  Lambert 
chose  to  telephone  Mickey  and  invite  him  to  go  with 
her  to  Fun  Land — a  near-by  amusement  park.  And 
an  evening  of  fun  they  had,  harmless  enough,  but 
leaving  Mickey  with  an  uneasy  feeling  of  guilt — well 
larded  with  the  feehng  that  in  Ginger's  eyes  he  is 
quite  a  man! 

From  this  small  fire,  a  big  fire  grew.  Roberta  and 
Mickey  tried  to  talk  it  out.  And  they  could  probably 
have  settled  the  problem  with  a  kiss,  except  for  the 
larger  frustration  they  both  shared.  Roberta's  father 
had  bidden  her  not  to  marry  until  she  was  older — 
and  certainly  not  until  he  returned  from  the  case 
he  was  working  on  in  England. 

As  Helen  Emerson  puts  it  now,  "I  was  certainly 
fearful  for  a  while  that  the  youngsters  were  going  to 
break  off.  But  I  guess,  if  you  wait  long  enough, 
everything  works  out  for  the  best.  Because  Mr. 
Wilcox  did  come  home,  and  he  did  consent  to  an 
engagement.  And  the  wonderful  thing  about  it  is 
that  Tom  and  Ginger  are  now  good  friends.  The 
two  boys  and  the  two  girls  couldn't  be  closer — all 
four  of  them  are  behaving  like  human  beings  again. 
I  certainly  wish  my  own  life  were  as  simple  and 
wonderful  as  theirs." 

What  Helen  means,  of  course,  is  the  continuing 
threat  to  herself  and  to  Governor  Lawrence  Walker. 
And  this  situation  is  no  simple  complication  of  young 


2.  Only  a  short  time  ago  Roberta  and  Mickey's  romance  seemed 
doomed.  Each  of  them  was  prey  to  unjustified  jealousy — Mickey 
of  Tom  Davis,  his  friend,  and  Roberta  of  Ginger  Lambert.  But 
now  they  are  friends,  shop  for  honeymoon  luggage  for  Roberta. 


See  Next  Page- 


Mi' 


i 


<3i 


'^V 


/ 


> 


> 


I 


3.  The  Governor  drops  in  to  see  Kim  Emerson,  con- 
valescing from  the  concussion  she  suffered  when  the 
Governor's  cor  collided  with  a  cor  driven  by  Jim 
Hunter.    Accident  was  plot  by  enemies  of  Governor. 


4.  Morion  Walker,  the  Governor's  sister,  is  shocked  and 
horrified  to  learn  from  Jackson  Winters,  political  colum- 
nist, that  he  is  preparing  to  wage  a  campaign  through 
his  paper  to  undermine  Lawrence's  personal  reputation. 


(Continued) 

love.  For  here  is  a  high-level  public  figure,  being 
made  the  butt  of  devilish  plotting.  The  men  working 
against  the  Governor  are  bent  on  one  thing — to 
discredit  him,  if  possible  to  run  him  out  of  office  and 
to  set  themselves  up  with  a  "wide  open"  state  gov- 
ernment which  they  can  manipulate  to  their  own 
devious  ends.  But,  even  to  a  group  of  clever  and 
unscrupulous  men,  the  ruining  of  a  good  man's 
reputation  presents  problems. 

Apparent  ring  leader  in  the  anti- Walker  group  is' 
Jackson  Winters,  local  newsman  and  columnist.  At 
every  opportunity,  his  gossip  column  carries  items 
about  Helen  Emerson — ^identifying  her  as  "The 
Woman  in  Black."  This  persistent  chivvying  in  the 
press  has  led  Helen  and  Lawrence  to  the  utmost 
caution  when  they  see  each  other,  a  furtiveness  about 
their  growing  affection  that's  abhorrent  to  both. 

But  for  some  time  they  do  not  realize  that  behind 
Winters  is  his  boss,  Sam  Perkins,  and  that  Perkins,  in 
turn,  is  cooperating  with  a  powerful  undercover 
group  of  crooked  operators.  These  are  powerful 
men  and,  to  do  miuch  of  their  hatchet  work,  they 
import  into  town  Jim  Hunter,  once  politically  ambi- 
tious himself,  and  known  to  have  little  regard  for 
honesty.  In  addition  to  these  qualifications  as  a 
trouble-maker,  Jim  Hunter  was  once  engaged  to 
Marion  Walker,  Lawrence's  sister. 

Jim's  return  involves  Marion  Walker  at  once.  She 
rebuffs  Jim,  angrily  rejects  his  suggestion  that  she 
intercede  with  the  Governor  to  get  him  a  cushy 
state  job.  But  his  presence  in  town  is  emotionally 
upsetting  to  her — ^the  man  she  gave  up,  who  might 
have  offered  her  only  chance  for  marriage. 

Jim  Hunter,  lacking  Marion's  support,  is  in  a 
tough  position.  The  crooked  gang  who  are  after 
Lawrence  have  been  instrumental  in  getting  him 
out  of  a  tight  financial  spot  in  an  ill-fated  overseas 
oil  venture  he'd  been  involved  in.  He,  himself,  has 
no  money.     He  is  forced  into  cooperation  with  the 

5.  Plotting  against  the  Governor  goes  on  in  a  typical 
smoke-filled  room.  Left  to  right:  Jim  Hunter,  tool  of 
the  pollticos;  Sam  Perkins,  powerful  publisher;  Jackson 
Winters,  political  columnist;  Martin  Cook,  promoter. 


52 


6.  The  love  of  Helen  Emerson  and  Governor  Walker  is  to 
grow  stronger  and  stronger,  as  they  realize  that  they 
are  the  innocent  victims  of  the  unscrupulous  men  who 
ore  determined  to  break  Walker  and  gain  slate  control. 


gang.  And  the  methods  they  adopt  are  strictly 
illegal.  Helen  Emerson's  telephone  is  tapped.  Her 
every  word  is  recorded.  The  gang  even  plots  to 
bring  about  a  niotor  accident  which  will  involve 
Helen  and  Lawrence  and  discredit  them.  This 
fiendish  idea  goes  awry — ^because  Helen  is  deterred 
from  making  the  motor  trip — but  tragically  involves 
Helen's  young  daughter,  Kim,  who  is  being  driven 
home  from  a  camping  trip  by  Lawrence.  The  resul- 
tant concussion  of  the  brain  has  put  Kim  in  the 
hospital  and  subjected  Helen  to  a  period  of  vast 
concern.  And  with  each  passing  day  the  fearful 
pressure  on  Helen  and  Lawrence  increases.  Though 
they  are  drawn  together  by  their  shared  problem, 
it  seems  to  both  of  them  that  their  lives  are  ever 
more  threatened.  Will  their  battle  against  the  evil 
forces  at  work  bring  victory  or  defeat  to  Valiant  Lady? 


Pictured  here,  as  seen  on  TV,  are: 

Helen  Emerson Flora  Campbell 

Governor  Lawrence  Walker John  Graham 

Mickey  Emerson James  Kirkwood,  Jr. 

Roberta  Wilcox Betty  Oakes 

Kim  Emerson Bonnie  Sawyer 

Tom  Davis Yale  Wexler 

Marion  Walker Joan  Tompkins 

Jackson  Winters Barry  Kroeger 

Sam  Perkins Bert  Freed 

Martin  Cook Victor  Thorley 

Jim  Hunter Robert  Carroll 

Ginger  Lambert Freda  Larsen 

Valiant  Lady,  on  CBS-TV,  M-F,  12  noon  EST,  is  sponsored  by 
Genera]  MUls,  The  Toni  Company,  Wesson  Oil,  Tenderleaf  Tea. 


53 


Mr.  and  Mrs.  Robert  E.  Riley 
found  a  magic  carpet  to 
Lisbon  on  the  Garry  Moore  show 


"How  would  you  like  to  take  a  trip  to  Portugal — all 
expenses  paid?"  That's  what  Garry  Moore  said  to  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Robert  E.  Riley  of  Woonsocket,  R.  I.,  who  were 
quietly  watching  his  show  one  day.  All  their  lives  they'd 
dreamed  of  going  abroad.  But  what  about  young 
Joanne,  7,  and  Kevin,  6?  They  managed  to  get  adequate 
care  for  the  children.  And  then  they  whisked  across 
the   Atlantic   and    had   themselves   a    dream   vacation. 


54 


■N6535C 


**1 


First    stop    the     Passport    Office, 
then  on  to  the  Portuguese  Consul. 


The  day  the  trip  began.  The  Rileys 
leave  honrle  in  Woonsocket,   R.   I. 


Arriving  via  Pan-Annerlcan  Airways, 
Rileys  were  given  official  welcome. 


The  thrill  of  a  dramatic  bullfight.  Here  the  "Cortezlas" 
or  entrance  of  bullfighters  into  the  arena  near  Lisbon. 


Mr.  and  Mrs.   Riley  talk  with  fish  vendor  at  village  of 
Nozore,  a  quaint  seaside  town  70  miles  north  of  Lisbon. 


Mrs.  Riley  in  the  Children's  Garden  at  Coimbro.  Garden 
contains  small  replicas  of  many  famous  Iberian  churches. 


Mr.  Riley  talks  with  hooded  monk  and  children  in  the 
streets   of   Nazore.     Picture   was   taken    by   Mrs.    Riley. 


The  Garry  Moore  Show  is  seen  on  CBS-TV,  Mon.  thru  Th.,  10  to  10:30  A.M.  EST,  Fri.,  10  to  11:30  A.M.,  under  multiple  sponsorship. 


55 


But  Patti  Page  has  discovered  that 

in  order  to  keep  her  figure,  keep  her  youth, 

keep  up  her  career   .    .    .   she  must 

keep  up  her  diet!  Here's  how  she  does  it 


56 


EiiiiciEis  c::.^m.*c:E 


by  MARY  PARKER  SHERWOOD 


A  GIRL  can  have  beauty  and  bounce  at  any  age, 
says  Patti  Page.  But  there's  only  one  way  to  stop 
the  clock  and  avoid  dangerous  curves — and  that's 
by  unswerving,  unexceptional  good  nutrition. 

When  Miss  Page  stopped  over  in  Hollywood  re- 
cently to  test  for  the  much-vaunted  and  wanted  role 
of  Helen  Morgan,  someone  who  shall  be  nameless 
said,  "Sweetheart,  you  look  simply  svelte!  Doesn't 
anything  ever  tempt  you  to  drop  your  diet?" 

"Mmm,  yes!"  sighed  Patti  in  her  most  mellifluous 
tones,  "Chocolate  cake  .  .  .  but  I  never  touch  it!" 
According  to  this  glamorous  singer,  who  is  now  a 
trim  size  8,  with  a  23-inch  waistline,  it  is  a  far,  far 
better  thing  to  maintain  the  sylphlike  look  by  firmly- 
fixed  good-food  habits  than  to  re-attain  it  re- 
peatedly by  means  of  violent  starvation  diets.  The 
radical,  off-again-on-again  approach  to  the  weight 
problem  is  an  extravagance,  she  says,  which  an 
actress  simply  can't  afford — and  neither  can  any 
woman.  It  takes  too  great  a  toll  in  crow's-feet,  cross 
words  and  unreasonable,  unseasonable  exhaustion. 

"It  took  me  more  than  a  year  to  lose  twenty 
pounds,"  Patti  Page  explains,  "but  while  I  was  grad- 
ually losing  weight,  I  was  gradually  gaining  some 
sensible  eating  habits  which  are  now  just  about 
automatic  ...  I  hope!  Actually,  I  never  even  think 
about  my  diet  any  more — at  least  not  consciously — 
but  I  go  right  on  following  the  food  patterns  my 
doctor  established  for  me,  because  I've  honestly 
learned  to  prefer  his  'wholesome'  things,  and  I  never 
felt  more  energetic  in  my  life." 

Patti's  low-calorie,  high-energy  diet  emphasizes 
plenty  of  protein  in  the  form  of  lean  meat,  cheese, 
eggs  and  skim  milk — plus  reasonable  amounts  of 
fruit  and  vegetables.  For  breakfast  she  has  a  cup  of 
coffee  with  milk  and  saccharine,  a  glass  of  citrus- 
fruit  juice  and  a  single  slice  of  protein  toast — some- 
times with  a  poached  egg. 

Lunch  is  usually  a  huge  chef's  salad  with  strips  of 
lean  meat,  cheese,  hard-cooked  eggs  and  a  well- 
seasoned  dressing  made  with  a  tablespoon  of  wine 
vinegar  and  a  tablespoon  of — yes — salad  oU!  Patti  has 
found  that  a  little  fat  in  the  diet  makes  it  far  easier 
to  sustain,  keeps  her  complexion  looking  smooth 
and  supple  .  .  .  and  doesn't  cost  too  much  in  calories. 

At  dinner  or  suppertime,  Patti  again  has  a  thor- 
oughly satisfying  meal  of  lean  meat  (steak,  chops, 
broiled  liver  or  chicken  or  fish),  a  large  serving  of 
some  vegetable  such  as  spinach  or  broccoli,  and 
skim  milk  or  tea.  No  bread  and  butter;  no  dessert 
except  for  plain,  unsugared  fruit.  And  if  visions  of 
chocolate  cake  dance  before  her  eyes,  she  simply 
turns  her  head  and  takes  another  sip  of  tea! 

For  sudden  between-meals  twinges,  Patti  has 
devised  a  number  of  effectual  solutions.  If  a  cup  of 
clear  tea  or  bouillon  doesn't  seem  to  suffice,  she 
nibbles  on  a  handful  of  cold,  crisp  carrot-sticks  or 
some  other  raw  vegetable.  Celery  stalks  stuffed  with 
cottage  cheese  and  chives,  she  says,  "cost  practically 
nothing  in  calories,  and  are  perfectly  delicious!" 

Delicious,  too,  is  the  way  la  Page  is  looking  nowa- 
days. .  .  .  with  her  smooth,  clear  skin,  her  bouncy 
stride  and  her  slim,  trim  figure!  So  why  not  take  a 
page  from  Patti's  book,  and  learn — but  slowly,  so 
you  don't  forget — to  walk  the  straight  and  narrow 
path  of  good  nutrition  which  will  give  you,  for 
always,  a  straight  and  narrow  silhouette! 


Icin^  o-f  Slueld 


^^kVi 

^^g 

B 

1 

r^ 

^^I^Bk' 

1* 

*  -^iri      .^^ 

^^^  y  v^^^  JFJg^B 

&^. 

9 

Full  speed  ahead  for  Herb,  a  casual 
and  wl+ty  navigator  on  six  TV  shows — 
and  captain  of  the  Festival  crew  of 
Lynda,   Rosa,   Randy,  Anny-Jane,  Guy, 


It's  more  fun  by  the  half-dozen, 

be  it  Herb  Sheldon  and  family  or  the  total 

of  his  shows  on  WABD  and  WRCA-TV 


When  you're  as  busy  as  Herb,  lunch  is 
often  ad-libbed — as  his  humor  always 
is.  Here  he  dines  al  fresco  with  a  friend. 


BROOKLYN  is  the  butt  of  humor  and  the  birthplace  of  humorists. 
Witness  Buddy  Hackett,  Danny  Kaye,  Phil  Silvers  .  .  .  and  be 
sure  to  witness  Herb  Sheldon,  a  casual  wit  who  is  not  at  sixes 
and  sevens  but  simply  at  sixes — career-wise  and  family-wise.   You 
can  see  Herb  just  about  any  time  you  want  to — on  any  of  a  half- 
dozen  shows  on  two  New  York  channels.   He  is  the  minority 
human  member  of  Speaking  Of  Animals,  a  daily  quarter-hour  at 
7:15  P.M.  on  WABD,  whereon  animals  speak  and  act  like 
such  humans  as  parents,  athletes,  vaudevillians  and  even  television 
audiences.   On  Ricky  Ticky  Playhouse,  seen  10  P.M.  on  WABD, 
Herb  brings  the  past  into  the  present  tense  with  the  help  of  Robert 
Benchley  shorts,  vintage  film  clips,  "live"  barbershop  quartets, 
and  a  player  piano  on  which  he  plays  rock  'n'  roll  tunes  as  they 
were  originally  written  and  played  thirty  years  ago.     Song 
mimicry,  cartoons,  puppets  and  clowning  are  Herb's  stock-in-trade 
on  Wonderama,  seen  Sunday  at  10  A.M.  on  WABD.  And  teenagers 
flock  to  the  WABD  studio  each  weekday  afternoon  at  5  for 
dancing  and  other  musical  merriment  on  Herh  Sheldon's  Studio 
Party.  On  WRCA-TV,  Herb  plays  host  on  First  Theater,  weekdays 
from  8:55  to  10  A.M.,  and  entertains  the  young  'uns  on  Saturday 
With  Sheldon  at  8  A.M.  .  .  .  His  adult  shows  are  ad-libbed,  his 
children's  shows  offer  sincerity  instead  of  "the  itchy-kitchy,  boysie- 
girlsie  approach."     It  works  with  other  people's  children  and  also 
with  Herb's  own  youngsters:  Lynda  Penny,  16%;  Amy-Jane, 
11  Va;  Randy,  10;  and  Guy  Ricky,  3.     And  it's  a  help  to  Rosa,  or 
"Toots,"  as  Herb  calls  her,  to  have  a  husband  on  TV.  "She  doesn't 
have  to  say,  'Wait  till  your  father  gets  home,'  "  Herb  grins.     "She 
just  points  to  the  TV  set  and  says,  'Now  listen  to  what  your 
father  is  saying.'  "  Still,  the  Sheldons  take  precedence  over  the 
shows,  and  Herb  didn't  sign  on  the  dotted  line  until  he'd  been 
guaranteed  that  Sunday  dinner,  at  least,  would  see  all  the  family 
'round  the  groaning  board.  .  .  .  Herb,  who  was  side-tracked 
temporarily  in  his  father's  wholesale  yarn  business,  always  knew 
that  it  was  show  business  for  him,  for  better  or  worse.     Not  that 
Herb  has  ever  "gone  show  business."  The  Sheldons  live  in  Roslyn 
Estates  on  Long  Island  and  recently  went  auto  shopping.     Herb 
was  offered  a  Rolls  Royce  "cheap."  Reluctantly,  he  turned  it 
down.     The  reason:    "What  would  the  neighbors  say?" 


57 


H 


The  gag  rules  as  Rege  Cordic  of  KDKA  spoofs  the  morning 


Rege  coaxes  top  sound  out  of  talented  quartet.  L.  to  R., 
Bob  Trow,  Jaye  P.  Morgan,  Karl  Hardman,  Sterling  Yates. 


No — that's  not  Boris,  Casey  or  any  other  Cordic 
erection.    It's  Vaughn  Monroe  being  interviewed. 


58 


Campaigners  Baldwin  McMoney  (Sterling  Yates),  Carman  Mon- 
oxide (Bob  Trow),   Rege,  and   Col.  Cornpone   (Karl   Hardnnan). 


WHEN  the  campaign  special  pulled  into  the 
station,  enthusiastic  throngs  were  on  hand 
to  cheer  "presidential  candidate"  Carman 
Monoxide.  "Carman  Is  Our  Man,"  triumphantly 
proclaimed  the  posters,  as  the  "candidate"  him- 
self vigorously  outlined  his  promises  and 
pledges.  This  scene  was  repeated  in  seven 
cities  during  a  whirlwind  one-day  tour  last 
September.  It  was  the  brainstorm  of  an  irre- 
pressible zany  named  Rege  Cordic,  who  con- 
ducts a  delightfully  daffy  morning  show,  from 
6:00  to  9:30,  Monday  through  Saturday,  over 
Pittsburgh's  Station  KDKA.  Now  that  the  elec- 
tion furor  is  yesterday's  news,  and  Carman  is 
nowhere  to  be  seen,  Rege,  his  campaign  man- 
ger, is  not  discouraged.  Carman's  primary  (!) 
purpose  was  to  get  out  the  vote,  and  also  provide 
a  little  more  of  the  good-natured  nonsense  that 
has  boosted  Rege's  stock  sky-high  with  listeners 
in  the  KDKA  area.  .  .  .  His  childhood  strategies 
early  revealed  an  agile  mind  at  work.  When 
angling  for  a  favor,  Rege  would  cryptically 
remark,  "You  won't  be  in  it,  if  you  don't,"  to 
his  puzzled  sister,  Martha.  "In  what?"  she 
would  ask.  "Never  mind  in  what,"  he'd  reply. 
"Just  wait  and  see.  But  you  won't  be  in  it,  if 
you  don't  do  it."  Martha  invariably  fell  for  this 
tactic.  Other  youthful  activities  included  oper- 
ating as  a  radio  "ham"  in  the  family  attic,  man- 
aging a  carnival  in  the  garden,  editing  a  grade- 
school  newspaper,  and  writing  deathless  prose 
for  novelty  cards.  (Sample:  "Kisses  spread 
disease,  it's  stated/Kiss  me,  kid,  I'm  vacci- 
nated.") ...  At  the  age  of  seventeen,  while 
still  in  high  school,  Rege  attended  a  broadcast 


Old    pal    Bill    Cullen    told    Rege,    "Be    natural.     If 
you  have  personality,  let  it  come  out."  And  it  has! 


Rege  at  ivory-tickling  session  with  Billy  Eckstine.  Music 
plays  big   part  in  the  show — between   fun  and  gags. 


^*  K;DKA.  The  only  male  among  the  audience 
of  femmes,  he  was  chosen  to  be  interviewed. 
And  what  do  you  want  to  be?"  queried  the 
emcee.  "An  announcer,"  was  the  unhesitating 
reply.  A  few  jovial  remarks  about  "having  a 
nice  voice"  and  "coming  in  for  an  audition" 
toUowed— which  Rege  took  quite  seriously.  He 
kept  after  the  emcee  until  he  was  given  a  spot 
as  junior  announcer  on  a  Saturday  kiddie  show. 
When  an  opening  on  the  station  staff  occurred 
Rege  got  the  job.   He  took  on  his  present  ayem' 

chores  in  1948 Rege's  whole  approach  is  in 

trymg  to  make  people  laugh  in  spite  of  them- 
selves. To  achieve  this  aim,  Rege  has  the  help 
ot  a  remarkable  menagerie  of  characters, 
created  by  an  intricate  system  of  tape  and 
record  cuttings,  plus  every  technical  device  and 
gmimick  available  in  a  radio  studio.  For  in- 
stance, there  is  Boris,  "the  old  monster,"  who 
comes  up  from  the  subterranean  passages  be- 
neath old  Fort  Pitt,  and  has  a  voice  to  match 
Rege  produces  it  by  sticking  his  head  into  the 
body  of  an  old  piano.  Phony  commercials 
(sample:  Frothingslosh  Stale  Pale  Ale,  the 
beer  with  the  foam  at  the  bottom)  are  so  freely 
interspersed  with  genuine  ad  spiels  that  listen- 
ers pay  keen  attention  to  all  of  them,  since  no 
one  wants  to  miss  a  good  joke.  .  .  .  Rege  has 
made  no  definite  announcement  on  Carman 
Monoxides  1960  campaign  plans— if  any  But 
in  a  way,  Rege  is  luckier  than  Carman— or  any 
presidential  candidate,  for  that  matter.  Where 
the  will  of  the  people  is  recorded  only  every  so 
^n,  m  politics,  Rege  gets  the  vote  of 
ISJJKJ'^    hsteners    any    morning    in    the    year 


Wife  Diane  and  Rege  during  playtime  with  Jennifer,  oge 
two.    The    stork    will    arrive    again — sometime    in    March. 


59 


(Continued  from  page  27) 
fact  that  he  had  all  of  two  dollars.  Well, 
what  could  he  order  but  hamburger? 
Gallantly,  he  ordered  roast  beef  for  Carol. 
In  those  days  roast  beef  was  a  lot  cheaper 
than  now,  so  his  money  stretched  to  pay 
for  both   dinners. 

Then  back  they  went  to  their  tiny  apart- 
ment, where  Carol  had  managed  to  set  up 
a  small  Christmas  tree.  The  presents  un- 
derneath the  tree  weren't  many. 

But  from  his  pocket.  Jack  dug  out  the 
gift  he  had  bought  for  Carol  on  the  in- 
stallment plan — a  dollar  down,  a  dollar  a 
mrvnth  for  two  years. 

Carol's  eyes  were  bright,  as  she  looked 
at  the  gold-plated  bracelet,  as  though 
there  were  some  tears  she  would  have 
liked  to  shed,  but  wouldn't.  "Where  did 
you  get  this?"  she  asked.   Her  voice  shook. 

"She  was  touched,"  Jack  admits  today. 
"But  she  tried  not  to  let  on.  She  knew 
that  I  am  real  sentimental  about  Christ- 
mas, and  that  I  would  get  very  blue  if  she 
said,  'You  shouldn't  have  done  it.' " 

Carol's  gift  to  Jack  that  first  Christmas 
was  also  one  she  had  had  difficulty  saving 
up  enough  money  for:  An  expensive,  hand- 
some-looking   gold-plated    fountain    pen. 

Like  the  couple  in  O.  Henry's  famous 
short  story,  "Gift  of  the  Magi,"  each  gave 
the  other  a  gift  of  himself  or  herself,  gifts 
of  the  heart  that  might  tarnish  in  reality 
but  never  in  memory. 

"I  was  mad  at  myself  that  year,"  says 
Jack,  "for  being  in  that  financial  condi- 
tion. But  instead  of  crying,  we  laughed 
about  the  situation.  We  were  sure  that 
the  following  year,  things  would  be  bet- 
ter. After  all,  they  couldn't  be  very  much 
worse.  And  sure  enough,  by  the  follow- 
ing year,  things  were  a  great  deal  better, 
and  have  continued  to  be,  year  by  year." 

For  the  past  eleven  years,  Jack  Bailey, 
through  NBC-TV's  Queen  For  A  Day, 
has  been  helping  women  all  over  the 
country  celebrate  Christmas  five  days  of 
the  week,  every  year.  From  all  over  the 
United  States,  women  throng  to  the  Mou- 
lin Rouge  in  Hollywood  for  the  happy 
privilege  of  lunching  while  they  watch  the 
"queen  for  the  day"  being  selected.  The 
program  has  been  called  one  of  the  great- 
est Santa  Claus  programs  on  the  air,  and 
Jack  is  known  as  a  perennial  Santa  Claus. 
As  emcee  for  Queen  for  a  Day,  he  has, 
over  the  years,  distributed  about  fourteen 
million  in  gifts.  For  the  lucky  "queens," 
Christmas  comes  not  once  a  year,  but  on 
whatever  day  they  are  chosen. 

Playing  Santa  Claus  to  gallant  women 
and,  once  a  year  on  Christmas  Day,  to 
children,  fulfills  for  Jack  Bailey  a  long- 
cherished  dream  that  goes  back  to  his 
childhood.  For  dark-haired,  spry,  laugh- 
ing Jack  has  always  cherished  the  idea  of 
bringing  the  spirit  of  Christmas  into  the 
hearts  and  lives  of  other  people. 

His  first  Christmas  memory  is  of  the 
time  he  was  six  years  old,  and  was  in  the 
church  basement  rehearsing  for  the 
church  Christmas  cantata.  While  prepar- 
ing for  the  cantata,  he  saw  Santa  Claus 
putting  on  his  mask — and  Santa  was  the 
station  depot  agent  in  Hampton,  Iowa. 
Jack's  heart  sank.  At  the  time  there  was 
no  one  around  to  ease  the  shock  of  disil- 
lusionment, and  to  explain  that  the  depot 
agent  was  simply  one  of  Santa  Claus's 
assistants. 

About  six  years  later,  Jack  was  asked 
if  he'd  play  Santa  Claus  for  the  children 
'    at    the    church.    Though    only    twelve    he 
*    was  five -feet-six,  tall  enough  to  get  away 
"    with  a  Santa  Claus  act,  though  not  near- 
ly    roly-poly     enough.      But    the     town's 
usual    Santa    Claus    had    died    that    year, 
60 


Gifts  of  the  Heart 

and  the  officials  of  the  Methodist  Church 
thought  that  young  John  Bailey — as  Jack 
was  known  at  the  time — would  make  an 
ideal  Santa.  "My  mother  was  a  good 
worker  for  the  church.  That  might  have 
had  something  to  do  with  their  choosing 
me,"  says  Jack. 

Remembering  how  disillusioned  he  him- 
self had  been  when  the  depot  agent  had 
put  on  his  Santa  Claus  mask  in  the 
church.  Jack  decided  that  he  would  get 
into  his  own  Santa  costume  at  home.  "I 
was  worried  about  the  little  kids,"  he  ad- 
mits now.  "I  don't  want  them  to  be  dis- 
illusioned. The  only  thing  I  could  do  to 
get  by  as  Santa  was  to  get  stuffed  up  with 
pillows,  start  yelling,  and  ringing  sleigh 
bells.    I  wore  the  bells  around  my  neck! 

"Every  year  after  that,  I  was  always  se- 
lected for  Santa  Claus.  But  after  the  first 
year,"  I  never  played  him  completely 
straight."  After  all,  a  happy,  jovial  guy 
like  St.  Nick  might  be  excused  for  putting 
on  a  little  comedy  act. 

As  Santa  Claus,  Jack  would  say,  "Have 
you  all  been  good  boys  and  girls?" 

"Yes,"  they'd  shout. 

"Do  you  like  your  mama  and  papa?" 

"Yes,"  they'd  shout. 

"Do  you  like  your  teacher?" 

"Yes." 

"Would  you  like  to  hang  her?" 

The  reply  had  become  habitual.  "Yes," 
they'd  say.  Then  confusion  would  reign 
for  a  moment,  and  they'd  shout,  "No!" 

"My  main  job,"  said  Jack,  "was  to  give 
out  candy  after  the  cantata.  The  big 
blow-off  was  Santa  Claus  coming  down 
the  middle  aisle  with  the  bags  of  candy." 

Said  Jack,  his  face  puckering  up  in  a 
grin,  "Of  course  where  there  is  Santa, 
there  is  supposed  to  be  snow.  However, 
one  year  it  rained,  and  it  worried  me.  If 
Santa  couldn't  come  up  in  his  sleigh,  I  was 
afraid  it  would  be  difficult  to  get  away 
with  a  Santa  Claus  act. 

"Finally  I  figured  out  a  solution.  I  took 
an  umbrella,  put  on  some  roller  skates, 
and  skated  down  the  middle  aisle  of  the 
church. 

"  'Kids,'  I  said,  beaming,  'I  didn't  want 
to  let  you  down,  so,  because  there  was  no 
snow  this  Christmas,  I  skated  all  the  way 
from  the  North  Pole.' 

"The  parents  and  the  older  children 
were  amused.  My  mother  beamed  ap- 
provingly from  her  seat  in  the  back  row 
of  the  church.  But  the  little  kids  took  it 
all  in,  and  I  rejoiced  because  I  hadn't 
spoiled  their  Christmas  for  them,  after  all. 

"I  remember  one  Christmas  when  I'd 
set  my  heart  on  a  bicycle.  Other  boys 
had  big,  gleaming  red  bicycles,  but  I'd 
never  had  one." 

Actually,  Jack's  father  had  been  bed- 
ridden for  a  couple  of  years,  just  those 
years  in  a  boy's  life  when  he's  most  likely 
to  want  a  bike.  So  naturally,  money 
wasn't  as  plentiful  as  it  had  been  when 
he'd  been  working  as  a  harness  maker. 

Such  realities  are  a  little  hard  for  a 
youngster  to  face.  Still,  Jack  did  try  hard 
to  earn  the  money  to  buy  his  own  bike 
that  year.  "I  worked  in  liie  shoe-shining 
concession  in  the  barber  shop,  washed  out 
the  bathtubs  where  the  patrons  bought 
their  Saturday  night  baths  (I  got  ten  cents 
a  wash),  and  I  swept  up  hair  combings 
after  the  barber  got  through  with  his  work. 
Still,  I  didn't  earn  enough  money  for  one 
bicycle  tire,  let  alone  a  complete  bicycle." 
Jack  half  suspected  his  mother  might 
buy  him  the  bike  he  wanted  so  much,  for 
she  knew  how  hard  he'd  tried  to  earn  the 
money  to  pay  for  one.  On  Christmas 
morning,  he  searched  all  through  the  front 
room  where  the  gifts  were  ordinarily  kept. 


No  sign  of  a  bike!  There  were  other  gifts, 
nicely  wrapped,  but  no  package  large 
enough  to  conceal   the  most   desired   gift. 

Then  his  mother  smiled  gently  and 
asked,  "Why  don't  you  look  in  the  barn?" 

And  there  was  the  cherished  bike. 

Early  in  childhood.  Jack  discovered  that 
there  was  joy  in  giving,  as  well  as  in  re- 
ceiving. One  year  he  saved  his  money 
carefully,  to  buy  his  mother  a  string  of 
pearls   for   Christmas. 

Though  he  laughs  about  the  joy  he  used 
to  get  out  of  visiting  a  lot  of  families  in 
Hampton,  Iowa,  and  collecting  "loot"  at 
each  home,  he  never  got  more  joy  out  of 
any  of  the  loot  than  he  did  out  of  his 
mother's  reaction  to  the  pearls. 

"She  kept  them  and  wore  them  on  every 
possible  occasion,"  he  says.  When  he  won 
a  first-place  medal  for  trombone  playing, 
he  gave  her  the  cherished  medal,  and  she 
put  it  on  her  string  of  pearls. 

Whatever  Jack  gave  her  was  meaning- 
ful to  her.  One  year  he  bought  her  a  blue 
pocketbook  with  an  amber-colored  handle, 
and  after  that  she  carried  it  everywhere 
she  went,  refusing  to  part  with  it  until 
it  was  completely  worn  out. 

When  he  was  in  his  early  teens,  Jack 
left  home  to  join  a  stock  company.  While 
he  was  away,  Mrs.  Bailey  used  to  invite 
the  children  of  all  their  friends  to  play 
with  Jack's  toys,  which  had  been  carefully 
wrapped  up  and  placed  in  a  toy  chest. 
She  was  always  careful  to  remind  the 
children  whose  toys  they  had  been.  For 
years  after  Jack  had  moved  from  Iowa, 
the  toys  remained  to  remind  the  children 
of  the  town  of  the  boy  who  had  played 
the  role  of  Santa  Claus  for  several  years. 

From  the  time  I  started  work,  I  can't 
remember  a  Christmas  when  I  wasn't 
working,"  confessed  Jack.  "Perhaps  the 
oddest  Christmas  of  all  came  one  year  in 
Detroit,  when  we  had  to  do  five  Queen 
For  A  Day  shows  at  the  RKO  theater  in 
that  town. 

"Carol  and  I  had  been  married  then  for 
a  number  of  years.  She  traveled  with  me 
to  Detroit.  But  most  of  the  others  in  the 
cast  were  separated  from  their  wives  and 
families,  and  quite  gloomy  about  it. 

"That  day  before  we  left  for  the  theater 
to  put  on  our  first  show,  someone  called 
to  say,  'You'd  better  get  your  hotel  maid, 
some  secretaries,  and  any  other  women 
you  can  round  up.  Right  now  your  audi- 
ence consists  of  one  man!' 

"When  Carol  and  I  and  the  few  people    ■ 
we  had  succeeded  in  rounding  up  got  to    ■ 
the  theater,  there  were  six  women  in  the    ■ 
audience."    After    all,    it    was    Christmas; 
the  show  wasn't  as  well-known  then   as 
now,   and   most  of  the   people   who   were 
familiar   with   it   in   Detroit   preferred    to 
wait  till  they  could  hear  it  again  for  free 
on  radio. 

"The  act  preceding  ours  was  a  single. 
The  fellow  who  appeared  just  before  us 
was  very  unhappy — probably  sorry  he'd 
accepted  the  engagement.  He  called  the 
people  in  the  audience  all  kinds  of  fools 
for  attending  the  theater  on  Christmas 
day,  instead  of  staying  home." 

Jack's  heart  was  sinking.  The  members 
of  the  audience  looked  pretty  dismal. 
We've  got  to  put  on  some  kind  of  show. 
Jack  thought.  How  dreadful  it  must  be 
for  the  women  who  have  come  here,  per-  ^ 
haps  because  they  were  lonely,  and  who  fl 
are  now  being  insulted  for  having  come.  W 

It  was  tough  rounding  up  candidates  for     ' 
Queen    among    the    few    women    present. 
"There  are  just  a  few  of  us,"  Jack  said, 
"nuts    enough    to    be    away    from    home. 
We're  kind  of  simple."    To  make  up  for  ^ 
the    insults   handed   out   by   the   previous  ■ 


act,  Jack  really  loaded  the  Queen  selected 
at  that  show  with  gifts! 

"Though  I've  had  to  give  two  shows 
every  Christmas,  there's  something  about 
Christmas  that  just  breaks  me  up,"  Jack 
says  now.  "Usually  on  the  Christmas 
shows,  I  can  hardly  talk." 

Christmas  is  Jack's  opportunity  to  be  a 
substitute  father  and  a  substitute  Santa 
Claus  to  lonely  children.  It  is  almost  as 
though,  at  Christmas  time,  Jack  mentally 
adopts  the  children  who  appear  on  Queen 
For  A  Day.  On  Christmas  Day,  a  Queen 
isn't  chosen,  but  a  Princess. 

A  number  of  years  ago,  the  Queen  For 
A  Day  program  started  the  Princess  for  a 
Day    idea.     One    of    the    first    Princesses 
came  accompanied  by  her  father. 
"Where's  your  mother?"  asked  Jack. 
"In  the  hospital." 
"Oh,  I'm  sorry.    Is  she  ill?"   . 
"No,"    said    the    child,    "she    isn't    sick. 
She's  in  the  hospital  waiting  to  bring  home 
a  little  boy  or  girl.    We'd  like  to  have  a 
place  for  him  or  her  to  sleep." 

Jack  was  so  moved  he  immediately  said, 
"Why,  we  won't  just  find  her  a  place  to 
sleep.  We'll  build  you  a  whole  new  room." 
"It  took  about  three  months  to  build  the 
room,  and  cost  about  three  thousand," 
laughed  Jack.  "I'd  ad  libbed  three  thou- 
sand of  the  program's  money  away  in  a 
couple  of  seconds." 

One  day  recently,  however,  it  was  tough 
for  Jack  to  be  as  gay  and  light-hearted  as 
he  usually  is.  For  the  woman  who  stood 
before  him  had  known  real  tragedy.  Her 
little  girl  had  lost  her  father  in  a  fire 
which  ravaged  their  home.  Not  knowing 
that  his  wife  had  already  rescued  their 
daughter,  the  father  had  rushed  into  the 
burning  house  to  save  her,  and  lost  his 
own  life. 

Before  the  tragedy,  the  father  had  prom- 
ised the  child  a  bicycle  for  Christmas. 
When  the  little  girl  asked  for  the  promised 
bicycle,  her  mother  told  her,  "Daddy's  gone 
to  heaven." 

"Now  Daddy's  up  there,  will  you  ask 
him  if  he'll  ask  the  angels  and  God  for  a 
bicycle  for  me?" 

As  the  woman  told  her  story.  Jack 
choked  and  a  lump  came  into  his  throat. 
She  was  chosen  Queen  for  a  day.  At  a 
signal  from  Jack,  the  Queen  For  A  Day 
people  scurried  around  to  get  not  one 
bicycle,  but  five,  so  that  one  could  be 
presented  to  each  of  the  five  children  wha 
were  growing  up  half-orphaned  in  that 
tragedy-ridden  home.  For  those  five 
children,  a  bright  summer  day  was  Christ- 
mas, for  it  was  the  day  on  which  their 
father's  promise  was  fulfilled. 

"Still  there's  something  special  about 
Christmas."  said  Jack  softly.  "There's  no 
other  day  quite  like  it.  Each  year  I  look 
forward  to  it. 

"And  somehow  each  year,  in  spite  of  that 
disillusioning  experience  I  had  as  a  child 
of  six,  I  feel  that  after  all,  there  is  a  Santa 
Claus." 

Jack  believes,  as  did  the  editorial  writ- 
er who  once  wrote  to  an  eight-year-old 
girl  in  the  columns  of  the  New  York  Sun, 
that  Santa  will  always  exist,  as  long  as' 
the  spirit  of  love  and  generosity  and  de- 
votion are  alive.  To  the  eight-year-old 
Virginia  of  New  York,  whose  friends  said 
there  was  no  Santa  Claus,  the  editorial 
writer  replied: 

"Yes,  Virginia,  there  is  a  Santa  Claus. 
He  exists  as  certainly  as  love  and  generos- 
ity and  devotion  exist,  and  you  know  that 
they  abound  and  give  to  your  life  its 
highest  beauty  and  joy  .  .  . 

"No  Santa  Claus!  Thank  God!  He  lives 
and  he  lives  forever.  A  thousand  years 
from  now,  Virginia,  nay,  ten  times  ten 
thousand  years  from  now,  he  will  con- 
tinue to  make  glad  the  heart  of  child- 
hood. 


NEW 


Star 
Candids 


CANDiDS 


1.  Lana  Turner 

2.  Betty  Grable 

3.  Ava  Gardner 

5.  Alan  Ladd 

6.  Tyrone  Power 

7.  Gregory  Peck 
9.  Esther  Williams 

11.  Elizabeth  Taylor 

14.  Cornel  Wilde 

15.  Frank  Sinatra 

18.  Rory  Calhoun 

19.  Peter  Lawford 

21.  Bob  Mitchum 

22.  Burt  Lancaster 

23.  Bing  Crosby 
25.  Dale  Evans 
27.  June  Allyson 

33.  Gene  Autry 

34.  Roy  Rogers 

35.  Sunset  Carson 

50.  Diana  Lynn 

5 1 .  Doris  Day 

52.  Montgomery  Clift 

53.  Richard  Widmark 

56.  Perry  Como 

57.  Bill  Holden 

66.  Gordon  MacRae 

67.  Ann  Blyth 

68.  Jeanne  Crain 

69.  Jane  Russell 

74.  John  Wayne 

75.  Yvotme  de  Carlo 
78.  Audie  Murphy 
84.  Janet  Leigh 

86.  Farley  Granger 

91.  John  Derek 

92.  Guy  Madison 
94.  Mario  Lanza 
97.  Kirk  Douglas 


103.  Scott  Brady 

105.  Vic  Damone 

106.  Shelley  Winters 

107.  Richard  Todd 

109.  Dean  Martin 

110.  Jerry  Lewis 
112.  Susan  Hayward 
117.  Terry  Moore 
121.  Tony  Curtis 
124.  Gail  Davis 

127.  Piper  Laurie 

128.  Debbie  Reynolds 

135.  Jeff  Chandler 

136.  Rock  Hudson 

137.  Stewart  Granger 

139.  Debra  Paget 

140.  Dale  Robertson 

141.  Marilyn  Monroe 

142.  Leslie  Caron 

143.  Pier  Angeli 

144.  Mitzi  Gaynor 

145.  Marlon  Brando 

146.  Aldo  Ray 

147.  Tab  Hunter 

148.  Robert  Wagner 

149.  Russ  Tamblyn 

150.  Jeff  Hunter 

152.  Marge  and  Gow- 

er  Champion 

153.  Fernando  Lamas 
161.  Lori  Nelson 

174.  Rita  Gam 

175.  Charlton  Heston 

176.  Steve  Cochran 

177.  Richard  Burton 

179.  Julius  La  Rosa 

180.  Lucille  Ball 
182.  Jack  Webb 
185.  Richard  Egan 


187.  Jeff  Richards 

190.  Pat  Crowley 

191.  Robert  Taylor 

192.  Jean  Sinunons 
194.  Audrey  Hepburn 
198.  Gale  Storm 
202.  George  Nader 
205.  Ann  Sothern 
207.  Eddie  Fisher 
209.  Liberace 

211.  Bob  Francis 

212.  Grace  Kelly 

213.  James  Dean 

214.  Sheree  North 

215.  Kim  Novak 

216.  Richard  Davalos 

217.  Julie  Adams 

218.  Eva  Marie  Saint 

219.  Natalie  Wood 
226.  Dewey  Martin 

221.  Joan  Collins 

222.  Jayne  Mansfield 

223.  Sal  Mineo 

224.  Shirley  Jones 


225.  Elvis  Presley 

226.  Victoria  Shaw 

227.  Tony  Perkins 

228.  CUnt  Walker 

229.  Pat  Boone 

230.  Paul  Newman 

231.  Don  Murray 

232.  Don  Cherry 

233.  Pat  Wayne 

234.  Carroll  Baker 

235.  Anita  Ekberg 

236.  Corey  Allen 

237.  Dana  Wynter 

238.  Diana  Dors 

239.  Judy  Busch 

240.  Patti  Page 

241.  Lawrence  Welk 

242.  Alice  Lon 

243.  Larry  Dean 

244.  Buddy  Merrill 

245.  Hugh  O'Brian 

246.  Jim  Arness 

247.  Sanford  Clark 


FILL    IN    AND    MAIL 
COUPON  TODAY! 


WORLD  WIDE,  DEPT.  WF-l-57 
112   Main  St.,  Ossining.   N.  Y. 

I   enclose  $ for   candid 

pictures  of  my  favorite  stars  and  have  circled 
the  numbers  of  the  ones  you  are  to  send  me 
by  return  mail. 


NAME. 


STREET. 


CITY. 


ZONE STATE 

Fill  out  and   mail  coupon  today.  Send   cash 
or  money  order.  12  pictures  for  $1 ;  6  for  SOc. 


61 


{Continued  from  page  37) 
of  the  girls  had  remarked  at  the  time, 
"but  it's  the  idea— does  he  think  the 
standard  form  signed  by  Dick  Egan,  Bob 
Wagner  and  Terry  Moore  isn't  good 
enough  for  him?" 

Came  time  for  the  signing.  Elvis  ar- 
rived five  minutes  early.  The  girls — who 
had  been  betting  he'd  show  up  late  to 
make  an  entrance — began  to  wonder 
whether  they'd  been  a  little  hasty.  More- 
over, they  hadn't  expected  his  quiet  and 
disarming:  "I'm  Elvis  Presley  and  this  is 
Colonel  Parker."  But  it  was  when  Elvis 
and  the  Colonel  emerged  from  Ferguson's 
office  that  the  girls  were  won  over  com- 
pletely. Nobody  had  ever  thanked  them 
so  nicely  before.  Elvis  took  each  by  the 
hand  and  thanked  her  individually  for  her 
share  in  typing  up  the  contract.  It  was 
further  brought  out  that  the  Colonel  al- 
ways requests  this  form  because  he  feels 
it  makes  the  reading  of  a  contract  easier — 
Elvis   himself  had   nothing   to   do   with   it. 

So  charmed  was  the  staff  that  they  cut 
their  lunch  periods  in  half  for  days,  in 
order  to  go  down  to  the  set  and  watch 
the  young  entertainer  doing  his  stint  as  a 
serious  actor.  And  Elvis — ^who's  not  the 
type  to  forget  a  kindness,  even  when  done 
in    line    of    duty — greeted    them    warmly. 

On  television,  Elvis  had  already  won 
the  respect  of  such  stars  as  Milton  Berle, 
Ed  Sullivan  and  Steve  Allen,  as  well  as 
a  host  of  other  performers  and  studio 
workers.  The  same  is  now  true  at  Twenti- 
eth. From  extras  to  top  executives,  they 
love  him — and  don't  mind  telling  the 
world  about  it.  The  opinions  of  his  co- 
stars  Debra  Paget  and  Richard  Egan,  are 
especially  interesting.  It  had  been  ru- 
mored that  they  were  walking  around 
"with  their  noses  out  of  joint"  because 
of  the  attentions  heaped  on  Elvis. 

Their  own  words  give  these  rimiors  the 
lie.  "I  don't  see  why  they  pick  on  him," 
said  Debra,  who  had  appeared  with  Elvis 
on  the  Berle  TV  Show  and  is  now  his 
"romance"  in  the  film.  "AU  this  noise 
about  'Elvis  the  Pelvis'  and  how  he 
arouses  wicked  emotions  among  teenagers 
is  just  plain  siUy.  Of  course  he's  dynamic. 
Of  course  he  excites  people.  What  good 
showman  doesn't?  I  feel  the  public  has 
been  given  a  false  idea  of  Elvis.  Everyone 
is  shocked  when  they  meet  him.  Instead 
of  a  clown  in  a  zoot  suit,  babbling  a  lot 
of  jive,  they  find  him  very  sympathetic, 
with  a  fine  head  on  his  shoulders.  He's 
also  terribly  shy,"  she  added.  "He'll  stick 
to  the  background  unless  someone  pushes 
him   forward." 

As  Debra  spoke,  prop  men  were  setting 
the  stage  for  one  of  Elvis's  big  scenes,  and 
she  was  joined  by  her  mother,  Mrs.  Mar- 
garet Griffin,  and  Dick  Egan. 

"Debra's  exactly  right,"  Dick  agreed. 
"From  the  publicity,  I  myself  expected  a 
brash  and  cocky  kid.  But,  when  I  met 
him,  I  realized  he  had  a  real  bad  case  of 
camera  fright.  And  I'll  say  this  for  him: 
He  was  so  humble  and  eager  to  learn 
that  we  went  all  out  to  help  him,  and  his 
progress  has  been  amazing."  Egan,  holder 
of  a  B.A.  in  speech,  and  an  M.A.  in  theater 
history  and  dramatic  literature,  resents 
the  fun  being  poked  at  Elvis.  "They've 
been  picturing  him  as  an  ignorant  bump- 
kin," he  protested.  "Actually,  the  boy  has 
an  excellent  command  of  English  and  a 
good  frame  of  reference.  Elvis  happens 
to  have  graduated  from  a  Memphis  high 

T    school   and,   while   he   uses   the   Southern 

V    drawl  and   an   occasional  local   idiom,   he 

B    talks   intelligently." 

"During  rehearsals  for  the  Milton  Berle 
show,"   Debra   recalled,   "when   Elvis   was 

62 


Elvis  on  the  Upbeat 

supposed  to  kiss  me,  he  hung  back  so— 
well,  I  finally  had  to  grab  him  and  do  the 
kissing  myself!" 

"The  lad's  a  natural,"  Dick  continued. 
"Just  being  himself,  he  can  charm  the 
birds  out  of  a  tree.  I  hope  nobody  starts 
drumming  'the  Stanislavsky  method'  into 
him.  He  doesn't  need  it.  All  he  needs  is 
a  few  basic  tricks — for  instance,  not  to 
keep  turning  away  from  the  lens.  If  they 
don't  try  changing  him,  his  talent  will  see 
him  through." 

At  this  point,  Debra's  mother,  Mrs. 
Griffin,  said  thoughtfully,  "I  have  five 
children,  and  there's  a  flock  of  youngsters 
in  and  out  of  show  business  who  come  to 
me  at  times  for  a  word  of  advice  or  cheer. 
I  think  I  know  young  people.  Elvis  is  a 
very  sweet  boy.  On  location,  he  twice 
moved  my  chair  into  the  shade.  Between 
scenes,  he  got  me  cold  drinks.  All  without 
being  asked.  I  could  tell  by  the  way  he 
acted  toward  me  that  he  misses  his  own 
mother.  When  he  talks  about  her  and  his 
daddy,  he  seems  to  light  up.  He  calls  them 
long-distance  every  day.  I  complimented 
him  on  how  weU  he  treated  his  folks.  His 
eyes  got  round  and  he  said,  'Ma'am, 
they've  loved  me  all  my  life.  What  can 
I  ever  do  to  pay  them  back  for  that?'  " 

JMean while,  all  was  not  sweetness  and 
light  on  the  back  lot,  where  they  were 
shooting  the  big  picnic  scene.  Director 
Robert  Webb,  ordinarily  the  most  patient 
and  gracious  of  men,  was  frantically  blow- 
ing his  whistle  and  muttering  dark  threats 
about  closing  the  set.  In  addition  to  sixty 
extras  in  post-Civil  War  costumes — and 
nearly  twenty-five  studio  employees  who 
had  sneaked  off  their  jobs  to  catch  a 
glimpse  of  their  golden  boy — the  place 
was  seething  with  tourists  who  herded 
after  Elvis,  demanding  autographs,  beg- 
ging to  be  photographed  with  him  or  aim- 
ing cameras  they  had  smuggled  on  the  set 
and  shouting  from  all  sides:  "Look  this 
way,  Elvis.    Smile,  Elvis,  smile!" 

"When  I  blow  this  whistle,"  Webb 
shouted,  "it  means  quiet!  And,  if  I  don't 
get  it,  you'll  have  to  leave — is  that  clear?" 

It  seemed  clear  enough.  But,  two  min- 
utes later,  Elvis  opened  his  mouth  to  sing 
"Poor  Boy,"  one  of  the  film's  two  songs — 
and  a  chorus  of  oh's  and  ah's  emanated 
from  some  two  hundred  admiring  visitors. 
Another  sound  track  was  spoiled.  Webb 
threw  up  his  hands,  stamped  on  his 
whistle,  and  ordered  the  set  cleared. 

That  helped  some,  but  not  too  much. 
Between  shots,  a  small  army  of  grips, 
carpenters,  secretaries,  seamstresses  and 
extras  decended  on  Elvis,  milling  about 
and  besieging  him  with  demands  for 
autographs  and  pictures.  And  amid  this 
unprecedented  furor,  the  young  singer — 
who  only  a  year  ago  had  been  driving  an 
electrical  supply  truck — maintained  a  calm, 
good-humored  and  grateful  smile  for  all. 

Webb  couldn't  help  grinning.  "I  ought 
to  be  frothing  at  the  mouth,"  he  said, 
"with  all  the  time  and  trouble  this  is 
costing  me.  But  I  can't  help  getting  a  lift 
out  of  it."  He  stood  watching  it  a  mo- 
ment, obviously  taking  pleasure  in  the 
sincere  and  impromptu  demonstration — 
the  affection  of  the  fans  for  Elvis  and,  in 
turn,  his  courtesy  and  appreciation  to 
them.  "Look  at  that,"  Webb  said.  "He 
acts  as  if  every  single  person,  no  matter 
what  their  station  in  life,  is  of  the  utmost 
importance  to  him." 

In  the  motion  picture  itself,  Elvis  gets  a 
chance  to  appear,  not  only  with  a  guitar, 
but  with  a  horse.  "That's  what  I've  always 
wanted,"  Elvis  admitted,  "a  horse.  Horse- 
back riding  is  a  real  joy  to  me.  When  I'm 
riding,   I  feel  just   like  when  I'm  singing 


a  good  solid  tune.  I'd  sure  like  to  own  a 
horse,  but  where  would  I  keep  it?" 

It  was  suggested  that  the  new  home  he 
has  built  for  his  parents  in  Memphis  might 
find  room  in  the  garage.  Elvis  shook  his 
head  reluctantly:  "No,  ma'am,  there's  no 
room  there.  And,  if  there  was,  who'd  ride 
him  while  I'm  away?  Who'd  take  care  of 
him?" 

Could  his  parents  do  it?  "They're  too 
busy  taking  care  of  my  fan  mail,"  Elvis 
admitted,"  and  that's  no  little  job,  believe 
me,  ma'am."  He  pointed  out  that  the 
barrage  of  mail  coming  in  each  day  re- 
quires a  staff  of  nine  secretaries,  in  addi- 
tion to  his  parents.  "And  they  got  to  have 
two  secretaries  of  their  own  now,"  he 
added,  "because  they've  been  getting  about 
four  hundred  personal  letters  a  day  since 
the  sky  fell  in  on  us." 

A  horse  is  only  one  on  a  long  list  of 
things  Elvis  yearns  for  but  must  pass  over 
until  he's  so  well  established  that — in  his 
own  words — "I  can  take  time  out  from 
running  to  catch  my  breath."  At  the  mo- 
ment, Elvis  is  breaking  aU  records  in  his 
dash  for  fame  and  fortune.  But  ninety- 
five  percent  of  his  time  is  spent  away  from 
home,  doing  TV  performances  and  per- 
sonal appearances,  cutting  records,  and 
making  a  movie — to  say  nothing  of  making 
his  fans  happy,  meanwhile,  with  auto- 
graphs,   interviews    and    intimate    photos. 

Thinking  of  this  mad,  headlong  race  for 
stardom,  Elvis's  astute  manager  said:  "I 
remember  an  old  movie  in  which  a  fellow 
is  being  chased  by  a  mob.  He  runs  and 
runs.  But,  all  at  once,  he  sees  a  baby  bird 
that  fell  out  of  its  nest.  He  stops,  picks 
up  the  bird  and  puts  it  back  in  its  nest, 
llien  he's  off  again,  running,  running,  run- 
ning. And  that's  Elvis  for  you.  Sure,  he's 
rimning  hard  and  he's  running  fast.  He's 
got  to.  This  is  his  big  time.  He  has  to 
make  the  most  of  every  minute.  But  it 
hasn't  kept  him  from  stopping  to  do  a 
little  kindness  now  and  then. 

"If  it's  his  folks  and  their  new  home," 
Col.  Parker  explained,  "he  helps  with  the 
plans  and  writes  them  about  planting 
hedges  along  the  driveway.  If  it's  a  bene- 
fit, he's  happy  to  play  it.  If  it's  me,  there's 
a  box  of  cigars  or  some  other  show  of 
thoughtfulness.  If  it's  his  cousin.  Gene 
Smith — well,  you  get  the  idea.  I  don't 
want  to  labor  this,  except  to  say  this  boy 
has  been  going  like  a  windmill  for  a  year 
now — and  he  still  hasn't  lost  the  knack 
of  being  simple,  decent  and  considerate." 

Loyalty,  they  say,  should  be  a  two-way 
street.  That  it  is  so,  between  Elvis  and 
his  manager,  was  made  abundantly  clear 
when  the  Colonel  was  asked  about  his 
handling  of  the  singer's  finances.  Before 
Col.  Parker  could  answer,  Elvis  pointed 
out  firmly:  "First  of  all,  my  daddy  handles 
my  finances.  Second,  I'm  getting  mighty 
tired  hearing  people  go  around  saying  the 
Colonel  has  got  'a  good  thing'  in  me.  Why 
shouldn't  he?  He's  got  'a  good  thing'  in 
me,  and  I  got  'a  good  thing'  in  him.  That's 
the  way  it  ought  to  be.  He  takes  his  share 
and  I  take  mine.  He  doesn't  touch  any  of 
my  money,  and  that's  a  fact."  According 
to  the  singer  himself,  the  Colonel  deserves 
every  cent  he  has  earned  from  the  Presley 
boom — because  "he  drives  a  pretty  hard 
bargain  for  me  and  always  comes  up  with 
red  hot  ideas  to  promote  me."  Most  of 
Elvis's  income  so  far,  the  singer  says,  has 
gone  directly  to  his  folks  and  is  banked. 
The  Presleys  are  extremely  cautious  about 
investments.  "We  don't  know  enough 
about  those  things,"  Elvis  explained.  "We 
buy  Government  bonds,  though,  'cause 
we  figure  there's  nothing  safer  and  sounder 
than  the  U.S.A." 


Asked  how  he  telt  about  the  colossal 
bite  the  Government  would  take  out  of 
his  income  this  year,  he  said  without  hesi- 
tation, "I  don't  grudge  the  Government 
its  taxes.  They  wouldn't  take  it  if  they 
didn't  need  it  to  keep  the  country  free. 
This  country  gave  me  everything — I'm 
ready  to  pay  my  debt." 

Going  on  from  here,  he  declared  himself 
ready  to  pay  another  debt,  too.  "I'll  prob- 
ably be  drafted,"  he  said  quietly.  "Well, 
why  shouldn't  I  be?  I'm  a  normal,  healthy 
and  able  American." 

How  about  the  financial  loss?  The  way 
he's  been  skyrocketing,  even  one  year  of 
service  might  cost  him  a  million  dollars. 
"You  know  something?"  he  said,  obviously 
awed  by  what  he  was  about  to  disclose. 
"I've  made  more  money  in  this  one  year 
than  most  folks  make  in  a  lifetime.  Just 
think  .  .  .  going  on  seven  million  records, 
at  five  cents  a  record  for  me."  (Actually, 
according  to  RCA  Victor  reports,  there 
will  be  twelve  or  thirteen  million  Presley 
records  sold  before  the  end  of  1956.) 

"And  that's  not  counting  the  rest,"  he 
added.  "I  can't  even  imagine  it.  I  mean, 
I  can't  imagine  me  and  that  money  to- 
gether. One  or  the  other,  sure.  Both  to- 
gether, no.  If  it's  a  dream,  please  God 
don't  let  me  fall  out  of  bed  with  a  bang!" 
The  last  was  said  without  humor,  in  a 
tone  so  impassioned  that  no  one  within 
range  could  doubt  that  here  was  a  young 
man  of  serious— and,  more  than  that,  of 
religious  bent  of  mind. 

Heart!"  Frank  Powolny,  head  of  Twen- 
tieth's portrait  gallery,  has  declared  earn- 
estly. "He's  got  a  lion's  heart.  The  first 
time  that  boy  came  in  for  a  sitting,  he 
popped  off  asleep  in  his  chair.  It  was 
right  after  Labor  Day  and  I  got  pretty 
annoyed.  I  figured  that,  instead  of  resting 
over  the  holiday  weekend,  he'd  probably 
been  having  himself  a  high  old  time.  I 
took  a  few  color  shots  and  sent  him  home. 
A  few  hours  later.  Colonel  Parker  phoned 
to  apologize.  He  explained  that  Elvis  had 
spent  the  entire  weekend  cutting  records. 
He'd  cut  thirteen  sides  at  RCA.  Can  you 
beat  that  kid  coming  down  to  keep  an 
appointment  with  me  after  that?" 

Elvis's  second  trip  to  the  gallery  was 
more  productive.  "He  sat  for  over  eighty 
shots,"  Powolny  reported,  admiration  in 
his  voice.  "Anything  needed,  he  was  more 
than  eager  to  do.  Posing's  not  easy  for 
experienced  stars,  but  this  boy  was  oblig- 
ing in  every  sense.  He  picked  up  the 
tricks  faster  than  I've  ever  seen  it  done 
before.  He's  a  trouper  and,  if  I'm  any 
judge,  he'll  stay  up  there  as  long  as  Sina- 
tra and  Crosby  have  done." 

Although  the  yoimg  star  usually  goes 
along  with  any  stunt,  gag  or  gimmick  that 
might  be  helpful  to  the  show,  Elvis  can 
also  set  his  chin  and  go  stubborn  when 
he  feels  "something  fakey"  in  the  air. 
This  happened  on  two  occasions  during 
the  making  of  "Love  Me  Tender."  The 
first  came  when  he  refused  flatly  to  simu- 
late singing  while  posing  for  publicity 
pictures.  "It  just  ain't  in  me,"  he  said.  "If 
you  all  want  this  shot,  you'll  have  to  let 
me  play  the  guitar  and  sing  for  real. 
Maybe  the  picture  would  come  out  better 
without— but  I  just  wouldn't  look  natural." 

The  second  request  Elvis  turned  down 
was  rather  surprising.  He  refused  to  pose 
with  a  death  mask  of  Jimmy  Dean.  "I 
admired  him  too  much,"  he  said  simply. 

"But  if  you  admired  him,  why  won't 
you  pose  with  the  mask?"  they  asked  him. 

"Let  me  put  it  this  way,"  Elvis  replied, 
his  forehead  crinkling  and  his  eyes  nar- 
rowing in  concentration.  "I  thought  he 
was  about  the  best  young  actor  we  had, 
and  his  dying  so  young  was  an  awful 
blow.  That's  why  nobody  should  do  any- 
thing to  cheapen  his  memory.    After  all. 


1  don't  need  to  cash  m  on  that  poor  guy. 
And  how  can  I  help  him  by  posing  -with 
his  mask?  No,  I  won't  do  it  unless  some- 
one can  show  me  a  good  cause." 

All  this  would  seem  to  contradict  the 
common  image  of  Elvis  as  the  kid  who 
put  the  bump-and-grind  into  rock-and- 
roll,  and  who  sends  bobbysoxers  not  only 
out  of  this  world  but  out  of  their  minds. 

As  he  was  making  his  meteoric  rise,  a 
dark  cloud  of  disapproval  gathered  on  the 
horizon.  This  has  recently  burst  into  a 
storm  of  abuse.  "Burlesque  at  its  worse," 
one  commentator  has  said  about  Elvis's 
hip-swinging.  A  national  magazine  snaps 
tartly  at  his  "gyrating  howling,"  and  re- 
fers to  his  teen-age  audience  as  "screech- 
ers  and  screamers  who  break  down  into 
hysterics."  Clergymen  have  preached 
sermons  against  his  "evil  influence"  on  the 
young,  one  even  denouncing  his  perform- 
ances as  "a  new  low  in  spiritual  degen- 
eracy." 

Their  elders  have  had  their  say.  The 
teenagers  are  still  to  be  heard  from.  When 
Elvis  was  first  scheduled  to  appear  on 
the  Twentieth  lot,  the  studio  was  bom- 
barded with  phone  calls  and  letters  from 
youngsters— all  wanting  to  see  their  idol 
work  and,  if  possible,  to  meet  him.  In  the 
interest  of  public  relations,  it  was  finally 
decided  that  Barbara  Katsaros,  president 
of  a  Los  Angeles  Presley  fan  club  and 
Almira  Jiminez,  vice-president,  would  be 
let  in  to  see  Elvis  so  that  they  might  bring 
back  their  impressions  to  their  club. 

Both  girls  are  fifteen  and  typical  of  the 
generation  Elvis  is  supposed  to  be  cor- 
rupting. But  this  is  what  they  have  to  say: 

"I  was  reading  about  this  psychologist," 
Barbara  said.  "He  claims  that  girls  my 
age  have  a  need  for  two  kinds  of  emo- 
tion— the  desire  to  mother  and  the  desire 
to  love.  Well,  I  have  to  admit,  Elvis 
doesn't  bring  out  the  desire  to  mother  in 
us  girls.  Jimmy  Dean  did,  sort  of.  But 
not  Elvis — no,  ma'am!" 

To  this  Almira  added  the  complaint  of 
all  teenagers  against  their  elders  since 
time  began:  "They  don't  understand  how 
we  feel,"  she  wailed.  "They  just  don't 
understand  how  we  feel." 

"If  they  did,"  Barbara  put  in,  "they'd 
realize  how  good  he  is  for  us.  At  our 
age,  a  lot  of  things  pile  up.  Maybe  they're 


$1,000  REWARD 


...  is  ofFered  for  iniormafion  leading 
to  the  arrest  of  dangerous  "wanted" 
criminals.  Hear  details  about  the 
$1,000.00   reward   on  .   .   . 

TRUE  DETECTIVE 
MYSTERIES 

Every  Monday  Evening   on   MUTUAL 
Stations 

He  could  scarcely  believe  his  eyes.  Read 
"Tliey  Left  Her  To  Die  In  The  Desert" 
January  TRUE  DETECTIVE  magazine,  now 
at  all  newsstands. 


small  things,  but  we  make  big  ones  out  of 
them.  We  dramatize.  It's  like  a  balloon 
was  inside  of  us,  and  every  problem  that 
comes  up  blows  that  balloon  up  bigger 
and  bigger.  After  a  while,  we  feel  either 
that  balloon  has  got  to  bust  or  we  will. 
Then  we  put  on  one  of  Elvis's  records. 
We  make  a  big  fuss.  We  yell,  we  cry. 
And  you  know?  That  balloon  does  bust, 
and  we  feel  so  much  better." 

"That's  the  real  honest  truth,"  said 
Almira.  "If  there's  any  hysterics,  it's  in 
us  before  we  listen  to  Elvis.  He  only 
helps  us  let  of?  steam." 

A  parental  viewpoint  was  presented  by 
Mrs.  Helen  Katsaros,  Barbara's  mother, 
who  was  chaperoning  the  girls.  "I'm  a 
wife,  a  mother — and,  I  think,  a  decent 
member  of  my  community.  I  was  a  fan 
of  Frank  Sinatra's,  as  a  girl,  and  I  can't 
see  where  I  was  hurt  by  it.  Now  look  at 
those  costumes—"  Mrs.  Katsaros  pointed 
to  the  girls.  They  made  a  fetching  picture 
in  Elvis's  favorite  colors,  black  and  pink. 
Black  Capri  pants  with  "Elvis  Presley" 
lettered  on  the  legs.  Pink  blouses  with 
black  guitars  on  the  backs  framed  in 
rhinestones  around  the  initials,  "E.P." 

"To  some  people,"  said  Barbara's 
mother,  "these  costumes  will  look  crazy 
or  faddy.  Maybe  they  are  weird.  But, 
when  I  look  at  them,  all  I  can  think  is 
that  these  kids  made  them  by  hand.  It 
took  them  weeks  of  shopping,  designing 
and  sewing.  They  had  to  applique  the 
names  in  pink  felt.  They  had  to  cut  and 
sew  the  blouses.  They  had  to  decorate 
the  guitars.  Even  Mr.  LeMaire,  the  ward- 
robe director  here,  told  me,  'Mrs.  Katsaros, 
if  Elvis  can  inspire  girls  to  learn  that  kind 
of  fancy  needlework,  he's  doing  a  real 
service!'    I  couldn't  agree  more." 

And  what  does  Elvis  himself  think  of 
all  the  criticism?  He  echoes  the  words: 
"Obscene?  Tone  down?"  He  seems  sin- 
cerely baifled.  "Listen,  when  a  cat  starts 
in  purring,  can  you  tell  it,  'Okay  but  tone 
it  down'?  The  same  with  me.  I  start  sing- 
ing and,  right  away,  my  motor  starts  run- 
ning and  away  I  go.  How'm  I  going  to 
tone  it  down  and  keep  it  from  getting 
fakey?"  He  ponders  a  moment.  "I  got  a 
respect  for  music,"  he  says.  "It  may  come 
as  a  shock  to  some  folks  but  I  heard  of 
Bach  and  Beethoven,  and  I  even  heard 
some  of  their  music.  If  I  had  time,  I'd 
like  to  hear  more.  I  wouldn't  use  my 
music  for  any  low  purpose,  and  you  can 
take  my  word  for  that!" 

In  support  of  this,  he  wonders  why  so 
many  of  his  records  are  sold  without 
people  seeing  him.  And  in  England,  where 
he's  never  been  seen  at  all,  his  popularity 
is  prodigious.  And  his  sweet  and  senti- 
mental ballad,  "Love  Me  Tender"— 
written  in  collaboration  with  Ken  Darby, 
leader  of  the  Kings  Men,  and  which  Elvis 
delivers  in  straight  simple  style — sold  a 
million  before  release  of  the  film  by  the 
same  name  and  may  be  his  biggest  hit. 

But  the  final  word  on  this  subject,  and 
one  that  perhaps  sums  it  up,  was  to  be 
spoken  by  the  redoubtable  Colonel.  Said 
he,  "Every  performer  has  a  pelvis.  Many 
have  guitars  and  play  them.  Others  wiggle 
when  they  sing.  Different  ones  rock  and 
roll.  And  still  there's  orJy  one  Elvis  Pres- 
ley. Let's  face  it:  There's  more  than  a 
pelvis  to  Elvis.  There's  brains,  skill,  talent. 
looks — and  a  great  big  loving  heart.  .  .  '' 
At  this  season  of  the  year,  Elvis's  loving 
heart  has  naturally  been  filled  with  plans 
for  Christmas.  What  can  he  get  for  those 
parents  he  adores?  "But  I  won't  ask 
Mother,"  he  smiles,  "  'cause  I  know  just 
what  she'd  say:  'Don't  give  me  anything  ' 
but  your  love.' "  That,  of  course,  she  has  * 
had  for  all  the  twenty-one  years  of  Elvis  " 
Presley's  young  life.  And  that  she  will 
always  have. 

63 


What's  New  From  Coast  to  Coast 


Kipling  stories,  the  Babar  and  Pooh  stories. 
And  I  read  to  my  own  children.  Past  tense. 
My  older  boy  is  a  great  reader,  but  Garry 
—well,  he  sees  me  reading  the  sport  page 
and  says,  'What  happened?'  and  I  tell  him 
to  read  it  himself.  Just  for  the  practice." 
The  album  which  Garry  has  recorded  con- 
tains such  tales  as  "The  Elephant's  Child" 
and  "How  the  Camel  Got  His  Hump."  Says 
Garry,  "Records  are  fine  but  most  of  a 
child's  first  experience  with  books  should 
come  from  parents.  That  will  lead  kids  to 
read  for  themselves."  He  goes  on,  "TV  gets 
blamed  because  kids  don't  read  so  much. 
I  don't  think  this  is  true.  I  had  a  letter  from 
a  firs-t-grade  teacher  telling  me  that  she 
thought  kids  were  more  aware  of  words 
because  of  TV  commercials.  She  told  me 
that  she  sent  some  students  to  the  black- 
board to  write  'does.'  All  of  the  kids  spelled 
it  'Duz'  except  one  lad.  He  wrote  'Tide.'" 

Mama,  Ricky  &  Tallulah:  When  Mama 
went  on  vacation  July  27th,  she  didn't  come 
back.  CBS  got  125,000  letters  and  petitions 
begging  her  immediate  return.  Many  carne 
from  our  readers  in  response  to  a  note  in 
this  column.  So  on  December  16,  Mama 
comes  back  on  CBS-TV  at  5:00  P.M.  Sun- 
days. And  just  like  nothing  happened,  the 
story  picks  up  in  the  year  1917,  right  where 
it  left  off.  And  nothing  exciting's  happened 
to  the  cast  except  for  Dick  Van  Patton 
(Nels),  whose  wife  had  a  second  baby  in 
October.  .  .  .  16-year-old  Ricky  Nelson  is 
now  one-half  inch  taller  than  his  20-year- 
old  brother  David.  .  .  .  It's  hard  to  see  any- 
one but  Tallulah  in  the  lead  in  "Little 
Foxes,"  but  that's  what  Greer  Garson  at- 
tempts at  7:30  P.M.,  Sunday,  December  16, 
on  NBC-TV.    (All  times  EST,  of  course.) 

Hit  &  Run:  Galen  Drake  will  soon  be 
turning  up  on  TV.  .  .  .  Tom  TuUy,  In- 
spector Matt  Greb  on  The  Line-Up,  began 
his  career  as  a  dog.  He  barked  for  $7.50  a 
day  on  the  radio  edition  of  Renfrew  Of  The 
Mounted.  .  .  .  TV's  first  lady  of  song,  Dinah 


{Continued  from  page  5) 

Shore,  has  been  described  as  "the  only 
singer  who  can  start  a  fire  by  simply  rub- 
bing two  notes  together."  Born  in  Dixie  to 
the  blues,  she  first  scored  in  minor  moods. 
Now  a  star,  possessor  of  a  happy  home 
that  includes  husband  George  Montgomery 
and  daughter  Missy,  eight,  Dinah  proves 
she  can  still  boil  the  blues.  For  Victor  it  is 
an  album,  "Bouquet  of  Blues,"  and  in  it 
Miss  Dinah  pulsates  "I  Got  It  Bad  and 
That  Ain't  Good,"  "St.  Louis  Blues"  and 
ten  other  songs  out  of  the  night. 

Big  Steve  &  Little  Steve:  Big  Steve— six- 
two,  age  35 — Allen,  is  prolific.  He  is  en- 
tertainer and  musician,  writer  of  books, 
stories  and  songs.  He  has  a  safe-ful 
of  contracts  for  television,  movies,  rec- 
ords and  written  matter — and  an  un- 
written avowal  somehow  to  find  the  time 
to  visit  the  Coast  and  his  three  sons  by 
a  former  marriage.  But,  says  wife 
Jayne  Meadows,  Steve's  a  "helpless" 
male.  He's  also  helpful,  may  have 
sparked  the  career  of  a  new  Presley 
when  he  invited  George  Hamilton  IV  to 
guest  on  a  recent  Sunday  show.  .  .  .  Lit- 
tle Steve — five-eight,  age  21— Lawrence 
makes  his  album  debut  for  Coral  with  a 
dozen  pleasantries.  His  TV  boss.  Big  Steve, 
says,  "His  is  a  voice  infinitely  better  than 
those  of  about  47  other  singers  I  can  think 
of  who  are  considered  by  the  public  bigger 
than  Steve  Lawrence." 

Seeing  Stars:  Everybody's  pulling  an 
Alfred  Hitchcock  these  days,  using  big- 
name  stars  as  movie  extras.  Mike  Todd's 
fabulous  "Around  the  World  in  80  Days" 
used  50  stars.  In  Elia  Kazan's  "A  Face  in 
the  Crowd" —  the  story  of  the  rise  of  a  TV 
performer — you  will  recognize  many  of  the 
"crowd"  as  faces  from  video.  For  some  of 
them,  see  our  picture.  ...  A  face  that  will 
be  missed  is  the  lovely  one  belonging  to 
Evelyn  Patrick.  The  very  beauteous  com- 
mercial announcer  on  $64,000  Question 
married  Phil  Silvers  in  a  "spur  of  the  mo- 


No  Western  garb  for  "Sheriff"  John 
Bromfield   when   he  dotes  wife   Lori. 


ment"  ceremony  on  October  21,  and  she'll 
let  Phil  be  the  breadwinner,  despite  his 
You'll  Never  Get  Rich  show  title  on  TV. 
.  .  .  And  there  was  a  family  resemblance 
that  the  ABC  Radio  audience  couldn't  see 
on  a  recent  My  True  Story  dramatization. 
For  the  first  time  in  his  twenty-five-year 
career,  Frank  Thomas,  Sr.,  was  teamed 
with  his  son,  Frank  Thomas,  Jr. 

Station  Breaks:  The  last  thing  Fred  Allen 
did  before  his  untimely  death,  the  narra- 
tion of  "The  Jazz  Age,"  will  be  on  Project 
20,  on  Dec.  6.  .  .  .  Theme  music  on  Wendy 
Warren  set  to  words  by  show's  organist, 
Clarke  Morgan.     Sheet  music,  titled  "My 


64 


TV  stars  turn  movie  extras  In  "A  Foce  In  the  Crowd,"  with   top   roles  for   Pot   Neol,   Walter   Matthou. 
L  to  r.:  Walter,  Sam  Levenson,  Bennett  Cerf,  Pat,  Virginia  Graham,  Betty  Furness,  Foye  Emerson,  Burl  Ives. 


1 


No   olive   drab   for   "Sergeant"    Phil 
Silvers   when   he  wed   Evelyn    Patrick. 


Hometown,"  available  at  your  music 
store.  .  .  .  Any  child,  seven  to  seventeen, 
can  apply  to  compete  on  Giant  Step  quiz. 
Write  Giant  Step,  575  Madison  Ave.,  New 
York,  N.Y.  Enclose  picture,  name,  age, 
address  and  area  of  knowledge.  Valuable 
prizes  such  as  college  education,  travel 
abroad,  etc.  .  .  .  Audrey  Meadows'  hus- 
band gave  her  a  horse  for  breakfast— or 
was  it  her  birthday? 

One  Woman's  Meat,  Etc.:  Lee  Merri- 
wether  leaves  Today  this  month  to  be  re- 
placed by  Helen  O'Connell.  For  Lee  it  has 
been  a  great  experience  but  a  circuitous 
road,  for  she  wants  to  be  an  actress.  For 
Today  she  got  up  at  4  A.M.,  which  is  about 
the  time  theater  people  generally  retire. 
Now  she'll  have  a  chance  to  audition  for 
teleplays.  For  Helen  O'Connell,  Today  is 
just  right.  Now  with  a  steady  job,  instead  of 
free-lancing,  she  will  be  able  to  settle 
down  m  one  city  on  a  definite  schedule 
with  her  children.  It  means,  too,  that  she 
will  add  to  her  talents  as  a  vocalist  with 
such  TV  chores  as  reporting  on  femme 
fashions,  weather,  and  generally  assisting 
The  Garroway. 

Como  To  My  House:  No  Christmas  tree 
should  be  without  Perry's  album  of  Christ- 
mas music  for  Victor.  It's  all  Perry,  sing- 
ing a  variety  that  ranges  from  "Rudolph" 
to  "Come  All  Ye  Faithful,"  and  Perry's 
great.  But  when  interviewed  about  Christ- 
mas plans,  the  reaction  was  typical  Como: 
What  do  I  do  at  Christmas?  What  does 
everyone  else  do?  Go  to  church,  have  a 
big  tree,  and  open  presents.  The  kids  get 
their  toys  all  over  the  place  and  it's  worth 
your  life  to  move  around  the  place.  Then 
there's  a  big  dinner  and,  afterwards,  from 
sheer  exhaustion,  everyone  falls  away." 
But  Perry's  oldest  kid,  Ronnie,  16,  is  really 
growing  up.  "In  past  years,  Ronnie's  asked 
for  fishing  rods,  footballs,  bicycles.  This 
year,  guess  what  he's  asked  for.  You  won't 
believe  it.  He  only  wants  a  slide  rule." 
.  .  .  Another  wonderful  item,  and  particu- 
larly appropriate  for  the  season,  is  Capitol's 
album,  "Tennessee  Ernie  Ford:  Hymns." 
He  sings  a  dozen  classics  and  you  can't 
miagine  the  same  voice  cracking  jokes. 
His  is  a  beautiful  baritone,  filled  with  com- 
passion and  reverence. 


OPPORTUNITIES 

FOR  EVERYBODY 

Publiih«r'<  Cl»sin«d  Department  (Trademark) 


For  dauHnd  advtrfhing  ratm,  writ*  to  William  R.  Sfawart,  9  South  Clinton  Str»»t,  Oiicogo  6  (Wo.-Jon.)  7 


OF  INTEREST  TO  WOMEN 


ADVERTISERS  WILL  PAY  to  $500  for  Your  Child's  photo 
(all  ages).  Send  one  small  picture.  Print  child's,  parents'  name, 
address  on  back.  Returned  ISdays.  Hollywood  Spotlite,  1611- 
Hollywood,  Calif. 


PI  No.  LaBrea,  Hollywood, 

BUY  WHOLESALEI  DISCOUNTS  to  80%.  Appliances, 
Cameras,  Sporting  Goods,  Tools,  Watches,  Housewares,  etc. 
Free  Catalogs,  Buy-Rite,  Box  258-SK,  Hawthorne,  N.  J. 
HOME  SEWERS  WANTED— Earn  extra  cash  making  readi- 
cut  ties.  No  selling.  We  instruct.  Free  details:  Jud  San,  518  E. 

105th,  Dept.  A-15,  Cleveland  8,  Ohio. 

$2.00  HOURLY  POSSIBLE  doing  light  assembly  work  at 
home.  Experience  unnecessary.  Crown  Industries,  8507-B 

West  Third,  Los  Angeles  48,  Calif. 

SEW  OUR  READY  cut  aprons  at  home,  spare  time.  Easy, 

Profitable.  Hanky  Aprons,  Ft.  Smith  3,  Ark. 

EARN  $50  FAST  sewing  our  precut  products.  Information  3c. 

Thompson's,  Loganville,  Wisconsin. 

MAKE  MONEY  CLIPPING  Newspaper  Items  For  PublishersI 
Write,  Newscraft,  PW-9B3-E.  Main,  Columbus  5,  Ohio. 
HOMEWORK,  PREPARING  MAIL  for  stores.  Creations, 

Box  307,  Hollywood  28,  California. 

EARN  SPARETIME  CASH  Mailing  Advertising  Literature. 

Glenway,  Box  6568,  Cleveland  1,  Ohio. 

FAST  SELLERS.  MAKE  Chenille  Dolls,  Easter  Lilies. 
Monkey  Trees.  Literature  Free.  Velva,  Bohemia  32,  N.Y. 

OLD  COINS  Ik  money  WANTED 

PAY  $2,000.00—1894-8  Dime.  Certain— Quarters  $1,000.00. 
Indianhead  Cents  —  $80.00.  1921  Canadian  50c — $200.00. 
Others  $1 0.00— $5,000.00.  Complete  Illustrated  Guarantee 
Buying — Selling  Catalogue.  Send  $1.00.  Worthycoin  Corpora- 

tion  K-278-C,  Boston  8,  Massachusetts. 

WE  PURCHASE  INDIANHEAD  pennies.  Complete  allcoin 
catalogue  25c.  Magnacoins,  Box  61-JF,  Whitestone  57,  N.Y. 

AGENTS  WANTED 

60%  PROFIT  COSMETICS.  $25  Day  Up.  Hire  others. 
Samples,  details.  Studio  Girl  Hollywood,  Qlendale,  Calif., 

Dept.  1671 H. 

STRANGE  "DRY"  WINDOW  Cleaner.  Sells  like  wild.  Re- 
places messy  raps,  liquids.  Simply  glide  over  glass.  Samples 
sent  on  trial.  Kristee  146,  Akron,  Ohio. 

LOANS  BY  MAIl 

BORROW  $50  TO  $500.  Employed  men  and  woman  over  25, 
eligible.  Confidential — no  co-signers — no  inquiries  of  employ- 
ers or  friends.  Repay  in  monthly  payments  to  fit  your  income. 
Supervised  by  State  of  Nebraska.  Loan  application  sent  free 
in  plain  envelope.  Give  occupation.  American   Loan   Plan, 

City  National  BIdg.,  Dept.  WD-1,  Omaha,  Nebraska. 

STAMP  COLLECTING 

CANADA— NEWFOUNDLAND  COLLECTION  including 
early  issues,  commemoratives,  pictorials  and  high  values. 
Plus  set  of  fascinating  triangle  stamps.  Plus  set  of  unused 
British  Colonies.  Plus  large  stamp  book.  All  four  offers  free. 
Send  10c  to  cover  postage.  Empire  Stamp  Corp.,  Dept.  PC, 

Toronto,  Canada. 

PERSONAL 

LOANS  BY  MAIL.  $100— $600.  Anywhere.  Air  Mail  Service. 
Postal  Finance,  200  Keeline  Building,  Dept.  653-A,  Omaha  2, 

Nebraska. 

HEALTH  a  MEDICAL  SERVICE 

FREE  BOOK— PILES,  Fistula,  Colon-Stomach,  associated 
conditions.  Newest  scientific  procedures.  Thornton  Minor 
Hospital,  Suite  C-113,  Kansas  City  9,  Mo. 


MONEY  MAKING  OPPORTUNITIES 

GUARANTEED  HOMEWORKI  IMMEDIATE  Commissions! 
Everything  Furnished  I  Hirsch,  1301-12  Hoe  Ave.,New  York  59. 
$300  MONTHLY  POSSIBLE  mailing  circulars.  John  Hall, 

S09-M  Fifth  Ave.,  New  York  17,  N.Y. 

EXTRA  MONEY  PREPARING  Mailing  Literature.  Mr.  Qui, 

1815  Meyers,  Lombard,  III. 

HOMEWORKERS    WANTED    PAINTING    Novelties.    No 

Selling,  N.  Roland,  R.D.  1  Vincentown,  N.J. 

MAKE  $100.00  WEEKLY  Mailing  Catalogs,  Write;  Products, 

2342S  Washington,  Chicago  12,  III. 

$25  WEEKLY  POSSIBLE,  sparetime,  preparing  advertising 

mailings  at  home.  Temple  Co.,  Muncie  2,  Indiana. 

MAKE   YOUR  TYPEWRITER   Earn   Money.  Send  $1.00. 

Hughes,  7004  Diversey,  Chicago  35. 

HELP  WANTED 

BEAUTY  DEMONSTRATORS— TO  $5  hour  demonstrating 
Famous  Hollywood  Cosmetics,  your  neighborhood.  For  free 
samples,  details,  write  Studio  Girf,  Glendale,  Calif.  Dept.1671C. 
EARN  EXTRA  MONEY  selling  Advertising  Book  Matches. 
Free  sample  kit  furnished.  Matchcorp,  Dept.  WP-33,  Chicago 

32,  Illinois. 

HOME  SEWING.  READY-Cut  Rap-Around.  Profitable.  Free 
instructions.  Hollywood  Manufacturing,  Hollywood  46,  Calif. 
HOMEWORK  ON  HAND-made  moccasins  and  bags.  Easy, 
Profitable.  California  Handicrafts,  Los  Angeles  46,  California. 
$30.00  WEEKLY  MAKING  Roses.  Easy.  Write,  Studio  Com- 
pany, Greenville  7,  Penna. 

EDUCATIONAL  OPPORTUNITIES 

COMPLETE  YOUR  HIGH  School  at  home  in  spare  time  with 
60-year-old  school.  Texts  furnished.  No  classes.  Diploma. 
Information    booklet   free.    American    School,    Dept    XI 74, 

Drexel  at  58th,  Chicago  37,  Illinois. 

HIGH  SCHOOL  DIPLOMA  at  home.  Licensed  teachers. 
Approved  materials.  Southern  States  Academy,  Box  144W. 

Station  E,  Atlanta,  Georgia. 

FREE  I  "TALENT  APTITUDE  Test"  Learn  acting  at  home 
for  TV,  radio,  theater,  movie  career.  Hollywood  Royal  Acade- 

my,  12BB.  5880  Hollywood  Blvd.,  Hollywood  28,  Calif. 

BUSINESS  OPPORTUNITIES 
PREPARE  ADVERTISING  LETTERS.  Mail  to  our  name 
lists.   $50   weekly   possible.   Adams   11603-R   Paramount: 

Downey,  California. 

FREE  BOOK.  GROW  Mushrooms.  Guaranteed  Market. 
Mushrooms,  Dept.  412,  2954  Admiral  Way,  Seattle,  Wash. 

FOREIGN  &   U.S.A.  JOB  LISTINGS 

HIGH  PAYING  JOBS.  All  types.  Foreign  U.S.  Chance  to 
travel.  Fare  paid.  Application  forms.  For  Information  Write 

Dept.  95B,  National,  Newark,  N.J. 

MISCELLANEOUS 

FREE  BOOK  ON  Arthritis,  Rheumatism  explains  specialized 
system  on  non-surgical,  non-medical  treatment.  Write  Ball 

Clinic.  Dept.  750  Excelsior  Springs,  Missouri. 

INSTRUCTION 


FINISH  HIGH  SCHOOL  at  home,  spare  time.  No  classes. 
Diploma  awarded.  Write  for  Free  catalog  Wayne  School, 
Catalog  HCH-39.  2527  Sheffield,  Chicago  14. 


WORK  AT  HOME 


HOME  SEWERS  WITH  sewing  machine.  Write  enclosing 
stamp  for  working  details.  Liebig  Enterprises,  Beaver  Dam  2, 

Wisconsin. 

HOME  SEWERS  OPPORTUNITIES 


SEW  BABY  SHOES  at  home.  No  canvassing.  $40.00  weekly 
possible.  Write.  Tiny-Tot,  Gallipolis  19,  Ohio. 


NOW  MAKE  BIG  MONEY  FAST! 


D  Fw"  or  Part  Time! 


□  High  Commissionsi 


□  No  Experience! 


Q  No  Age  Requirements! 


n  free  Sales  Kit! 


□  No  Investment! 


D  No  Obligation! 


Rush  your  name  and  address  today  for  amaz- 
ing new  sales  kit.  It's  absolutely  FREE.  Gives 
you  startling  information.  Tells  you  how  to 
make  big  money  fast  and  often  by  helping  us 
take  orders  for  magazine  subscriptions.  It's 
easy!  No  experience  needed!  Become  our  per- 
sonal magazine  representative  in  your  com- 
munity. Free  kit  works  like  magic  to  put 
dollars  into  your  pocket!  You  don't  invest 
a  penny  of  your  money  now  or  any  time.  We 
supply    everything    you    need    free.     Act    now. 

Paste  coupon  below  on  post  card  and  mail 
today!  Extra  cash  is  yours  for  the  asking! 


Subscription  Agents  Division, 

Macfadden  Publications, 

20S  E.  42  St.,  New  York  17,  N. 


Y. 


YES!   Rush  FREE  Money-Making  Infor- 
mation at  once.  I'm  ready  to  start. 


I 


Name I 

Address j 

City State [ 


65 


(Continued  from  page  49) 
researchers   are   convinced   that   surprised 
subject  so-and-so  will  not  turn  blue  and 
assault  me  on  receiving  the  news  that  this 
is  his  life,  then  I  believe  them  implicitly. 

"On  the  other  hand,  there  are  those 
who  contend  that  anything  can  happen. 
And  I've  been  around  show  business  long 
enough  to  know  that  it's  a  fact.  So  I'll 
admit  there  is  an  occasional  nightmare  in 
the  house  of  Edwards,  and  I  have  it. 

"Rationally,  I  know  the  chance  of  my 
nighmare  coming  true  is  one  in  a  thousand, 
no  more.  The  Americans  are  too  solid  to 
let  it.  But  one  of  these  evenings,  I  suppose, 
it  just  could  be  that  I  will  be  swung  at  in 
full  view  of  lunpteen  million  people,  and 
have  to  do  something  about  it.  Shall  we  let 
it  go  at  that?" 

Edwards  had  never  previously  been  will- 
ing to  let  himself  be  drawn  out  on  such 
a  dire  possibility.  But  the  possibility  has 
occurred  to  thousands  of  agitated  on- 
lookers, who  week  on  week  have  gazed 
on  This  Is  Your  Life  with  an  awed  feel- 
ing of  momentary  disaster. 

Edwards,  after  all,  deals  with  people  who 
have  no  training  as  professionals  in  speak- 
ing or  acting.  Or  he  usually  does.  He  must 
deal  with  them,  furthermore,  in  moments 
of  emotional  stress.  He  must  antagonize 
neither  them  nor  his  audience.  He  must 
be  verbose,  hearty  and  urbane. 

"Why  shovdd  I  fight  it?"  he  has  finally 
confessed.  "Something  or  someone  can 
blow.  Completely,  I  imagine.  Of  course, 
we've  already  had  jam-ups  and  near 
hysterics,  but  we're  prepared  for  those. 
But  what  about  drastic  eventualities?  Well, 
here  and  now,  I'm  of  the  opinion  there's 
an  answer  for  everything,  that  there's 
no  conceivable  hole  out  of  which  I  couldn't 
get.  I  mean  that  if  I  couldn't  extricate 
myself  from  a  bad  ad-lib  situation,  I'd  feel 
I'm  in  the  wrong  business.  The  situation 
might  call  for  my  talking  until  exhaustion 
set  in,  including  a  full  rendition  of  the 
Gettysburg  Address.     But  I'd  do  it. 

"But  no  such  situation  should  happen, 
because  planned  guests  of  This  Is  Your 
Life  are  screened  as  carefully  for  stability 
as  they  are  for  a  cardiac  condition.  Still, 
say  somebody  does  blow.  I'm  Ralph  Ed- 
wards, I'm  on  camera,  and  someone  on  the 
burly  side  has  just  swung  on  my  jaw. 
I've  thought  about  it,  yes.  Well,  if  he 
connects,  my  choice  is  easy.  I  fall  down 
and  go  to  sleep. 

"But  I've  been  a  boxer.     I  know  self- 


Edwards'  JNightmare 

defense.  And  I  can't  think  of  many  cir- 
cumstances under  which  I'd  swing  back. 
Be  unthinkable.  My  olfhand  idea  is,  I'd 
try  to  laugh  and  cajole  liim  out  of  it — 
holding  his  arms,  no  doubt.  It  would  be 
my  first  impression  he'd  never  seen  the 
show  and  thus  didn't  realize  what  we  were 
trying  to  do.  There  are  many  people  who 
are  sensitive  to  ridicule  and  wouldn't  be 
aware  that  we  never  ridicule  anyone.  I 
think  in  this  event  I  could  convince  him 
and  cool  him  off  easily.  It  might  be  a 
good  idea  to  get  him  off  camera  for  a  pe- 
riod, but  we're  trained  for  those  emer- 
gencies. I  remember  one  lady  cried  and 
talked  so  that  I  had  to  drop  eighteen  pages 
from  the  prepared  material,  and  no  one 
knew  the  difference.  I  don't  even  let 
myself  think  of  having  to  deal  with  some- 
body completely  intractable.  But  if  worse 
really  comes  to  worst — well,  we  have  given 
thought  to  these  bugaboos,  after  all.  There's 
a  filmed  show  always  waiting  for  the  day 
they  push  the  panic  button. 

"But,  just  to  theorize  for  a  moment, 
what  if  I  say  on  camera:  'And  here  is 
your  dear  friend  of  forty-years  standing, 
Joe  Sunblossom!  You  haven't  forgotten 
Joe,  have  you?' 

"And  the  guest  says,  'I  haven't  forgotten 
him  and  I  still  think  he's  a  creep.' 

"We've  thought  about  that  contingency. 
And  I  want  to  say  again  I  don't  see  how 
it  could  happen.  The  research  is  such 
that  the  behavior  of  everyone  concerned 
is  ninety -nine  percent  predictable  to  us.  But 
the  basic  point  is  still  sound:  No  one's 
immune  from  emergency.  So  in  this  case, 
it  would  be  again  a  matter  for  cajolery, 
of  kidding  the  subject  back  into  a  recep- 
tive frame  of  mind.  For  that,  I'm  pretty 
well  equipped.  AU  these  years  with  Truth 
Or  Consequences,  where  we  really  did 
take  a  few  chances,  haven't  gone  for  noth- 
ing. But  failing  this,  there  are  other 
devices,  camera  or  vocal.  We  wouldn't 
go  off  the  screen  and  I  think  we'd  end  up 
laughing. 

"And  what  would  happen  if  a  guest, 
on  being  notified  of  imminent  biographical 
fame,  simply  stalked  off  the  stage?  I 
doubt  he'd  get  far,  always  allowing  the 
credibility  of  the  idea — which  I  don't.  I'd 
motion  to  Bob  Warren,  our  announcer,  to 
take  over,  while  I  persuaded  the  guest  that 
he  was  not  being  victimized.  It  probably 
would  be  a  case  of  a  person  who'd  never 
seen  the  show  but  had  seen  a  few  shows 
where  guests  have  water  balloons  broken 


66 


In  the  house  next  door  .  .  . 

SCANDAL! 

If  you  listen  to  the  radio  program  "My  True 
Story,"  sooner  or  later  you'll  hear  a  story  that 
might  easily  be  about  your  own  neighbors. 
That's  because  this  program  presents  actual 
stories  from  the  files  of  True  Story  Magazine. 
Each  one  puts  a  magnifying  glass  on  an  intimate 
part  of  someone's  life.  In  this  way,  "My  True 
Story"  helps  you  to  understand  your  own 
difficult  problems.  So  be  sure  to  listen. 

Tune  in  Every  Morning  to 

MY  TRUE  STORY'' 

American  Broadcasting  Stations 

"I'd  never  owned  a  necklace — and  this  one  was  so  pretty.' 
Doing  Without"  in  January  TRUE  STORY  magazine  now 


'  Read 
at  all 


"Tired  Of 
newsstands. 


over  their  heads.  I'm  sure  I  could  make 
him  see  reason.  If  I  couldn't,  as  I  say,  I'm 
in  the  wrong  business.  I  do  have  confi- 
dence in  myself.  It's  requisite  to  my  job." 
Edwards  claims  he  is  by  no  means 
haunted  by  the  occupational  hazards  of  his 
show  and  his  friends  bear  him  out.  But 
he  still  understands  that  to  assume 
mechanical  perfection  in  ad-lib  conditions 
would  be  foolhardy,  and  he  does  oc- 
casionally awake  drenched  in  sweat.  These 
fears  are  based  on  something  besides  the 
ephemeral  chills.  Mild  threats  have  from 
time  to  time  arisen  to  nudge  his  aplomb. 
Casey  Stengel,  manager  of  baseball's  famed 
New  York  Yankees,  met  the  glad  tidings 
that  this  was  his  life  with  marked  dis- 
gruntlement.     It  was  widely  publicized. 

"But  widely  mis-publicized,"  Edwards 
claims  today.  "Actually,  Case  was  a  man 
who'd  never  seen  the  show,  and  he  didn't 
know  what  was  happening  to  him.  As  it 
went  on,  he  warmed  up.  And  at  the  end 
we  were  all  happy  as  clams.  Anything 
else   you've   ever   heard   is   wrong." 

Again,  Edwards  had  a  bad  moment  with 
film  producer  Dore  Schary.  Schary,  whose 
life  it  was,  had  been  beguiled  into  appear- 
ing by  a  not  unfamiliar  Edwards  device — 
being  told  that  he  was  bringing  Robert 
Taylor  there  for  the  pvirpose.  In  fact, 
Schary  had  been  equipped  with  an  album 
bearing  the  words,  "This  Is  Your  Life- 
Robert  Taylor."  Just  prior  to  his  entrance, 
the  albums  were  switched  on  Schary,  who 
unknowingly  carried  one  bearing  his  own 
name.  But  did  this  sway  so  incisive  a 
fellow  as  Schary?  Not  a  bit.  He  intoned 
as  instructed:  "This  Is  Your  Life— Robert 
Taylor'."  Not  for  seconds  did  it  occur  to 
him  that  Dore  Schary  was  a  very  strange 
way  to  spell  Robert  Taylor,  and  the  double- 
take  was  just  as  long  in  coming. 

As   a   matter  of  fact,   Edwards— who   is 
not  willing  to  admit  he  ever  failed  to  sur- 
prise anyone  at  least  somewhat    (barring 
those  few  notified  in  advance  for  cardiacM 
or  other  reasons)— will  go  so  far  as  to  sayB 
that  show  people  are  harder  to  fool  than" 
simple   folk   whose  timorous   egos   permit 
no  day-dreams. 

"Danny   Thomas,"   Ralph  said   not   long 
ago,  "actually  told  me  later  he  suspected. 
'But  then,'  Thomas  said,  'I  decided  I  must  J I 
be    wrong    because    my    wife    hadn't    told^| 
me,  and  I  never  knew  her  to  keep  a  secret 
before  in  my  life.'  *'  I 

On  the  side,  two  criticisms  or  pseudo- 
criticisms  of  This  Is  Your  Life  rarely  fail 
to  goad  its  top  man.  One  is  the  familiar  j 
charge  that  by  parading  private  griefs  or 
emotions  before  the  public  eye,  he  is  be- 
smirching  human   dignity. 

"We   never   do,"   he   says.     "That's    ab- 
solutely all  I  have  to  say  on  the  matter.    I    ' 
leave  the  rest  to  the  audiences.    We  never 
have,  never  do,  never  will." 

His  other  hete  noir  is  the  many-headed 
fellow  who  approaches  him  privately  and 
insists  on  corifirming  his  suspicion  that 
the  whole  affair  is  done  with  rehearsal  and 
advance  preparation.  Merely  thinking 
of  these  cynics  can  spur  non-profane  Ed- 
wards into  an  outburst.  Indeed,  you  should 
know  the  time  and  money  expended  to  in- 
sure  secrecy. 

Of  course,  these  two  crosses  to  bear  ex- 
clude the  nightmares  of  Ralph  Edwards, 
his  own  private  set  of  horrors. 

"But  how  can  I  worry  too  much  about 
them,"  he  now  affirms,  "with  the  American 
temperament  being  what  it  is.  These 
friends  of  ours  are  solid  and  healthy.  We'd 
know  it  even  if  we  hadn't  rf^searched  them. 
It  may  be  true  I  wake  up  in  a  swivet  now 
and  then,  in  mortal  combat  with  the 
pillow  and  hearing  the  crew  yell,  'Pry 
the  guest  off  Ralph!'  But  then  I  think 
of  Americans  and  go  back  to  sleep  again." 


Let's  Talk  With  Arthur  Godfrey 


(Continued  from  page  23) 
a  word  without  disrupting  the  program. 
He  tried  to  signal  one  of  his  assistants  but, 
somehow,  they  were  concentrating  else- 
where. The  drunk  was  about  to  attempt  to 
yank  Arthur  from  the  saddle.  And  then  a 
cowboy,  Leonard  Mayer,  came  galloping 
in,  scooped  up  the  drunk  and  dropped  him 
over  the  fence.  It  was  a  trivial  incident  but 
only  because  Leonard  Mayer  saved  the 
situation.  However,  no  one  imagined  that 
Mayer,  himself,  was  putting  Arthur  to  a 
test.  He  wrote  about  it  in  a  poem  when 
Arthur  was  gone.  Here  is  a  partial  quote: 

"I  stood  there  watching  as  he  came  in 
on  the  plane 

The  crowd  was  excited,  not  even  sane. 

Me,  I  wasn't  bothered  by  this  'whoop- 
tee-do,' 

'Cause  he  has  to  prove  himself  to  me 
and  you." 

Leonard  Mayer  went  on  to  say  how 
much  he  learned  to  admire  Arthur  Godfrey 
during  his  week's  stay.  And  it's  true.  .  . 
Arthur  is  a  great  guy.  He  is  at  home  with 
the  grocer  or  mechanic,  the  executive  or 
housewife.  Arthur  is  a  happy-go-lucky 
guy  with  a  quick  sense  of  humor.  But  this 
is  only  part  of  the  man.  The  other  side  is 
quite  serious.  It  isn't  out  of  character  for 
him  to  sit  alone  in  his  office  for  hours  at  a 
time.  He  is  indulging  in  a  pastime  that  is 
often  considered  unpopular:  He  is  thinking. 

His  thinking  processes  are  so  good  that 
his  ideas  get  the  respectful  attention  of 
Congressional  leaders,  generals  and  in- 
dustrialists. A  member  of  congress,  George 
A.  Smathers  of  Florida,  called  Arthur  "one 
of  the  best  informed  men,  either  in  or  out 
of  Government,  on  the  matter  of  this  na- 
tion's air  power."  And  to  show  people, 
he's  the  top  authority  on  radio  and  tele- 
vision. To  Americans  in  general,  he  is  a 
man  who  knows — he  has  been  at  work 
since  he  was  ten  and  he  knows  the  country 
and  its  people.  His  is  a  wisdom  of  ex- 
perience and  observation  and  analysis. 

So  ten  questions  were  proposed  to 
Arthur.  Questions  that  would  have  mean- 
ing at  the  end  of  the  old  year  and  begin- 
ning of  the  new.  Some  questions  were  per- 
sonal; some  were  about  you,  the  audience; 
some  were  about  his  business. 

The  questions  were  not  submitted  in 
advance.  His  answers  were  neither  taped 
nor  transcribed  by  a  secretary.  ITie  ques- 
tions were  put  in  his  office  which  is  in  the 
same  building  that  houses  the  CBS  studio 
where  his  morning  show  originates.  It  is 
an  office  that  is  not  ostentatious.  There  are 
personal  mementoes  on  the  walls:  Pictures 
of  his  children,  his  mother,  his  friends,  of 
ships  and  planes,  and  on  his  desk  there 
is  a  miniature  oil  painting  of  his  wife, 
Mary.  As  he  talks,  he  swivels,  stares  at 
the  rug  and  tousles  his  hair.  Some  answers 
come  quickly.  Others  come  after  some 
thinking  and,  usually,  as  you  will  see,  the 
thinking  is  out  loud. 

First  question:  What  are  your  future 
plans  for  television? 

Answer:  "Well,  I'm  just  getting  arovmd 
to  what  I  would  like  to  do  on  the  Wednes- 
day night  show.  You  see,  several  years 
back,  they  asked  me  what  I  would  Uke 
to  do  before  the  show  started.  I  said  I'd 
like  it  to  be  informal.  Just  as  it  might  be 
if  I  were  sitting  down  to  talk  with  friends 
—real  people — like  the  neighbor  farmer 
or  the  garage  man  or  my  old  friend  Erwin 
Wilson — just  me  and  my  friends.  So  they 
called  it  Arthur  Godfrey  and  His  Friends. 
Then  they  turn  it  into  a  variety  format 
like  Milton  Berle's  which  wasn't  what  I 
had    in   mind    at   all.    I   wasn't   satisfied.   I 


Wcinted  to  make  some  changes.  But  it's 
funny  how  a  show  can  get  away  from  you. 
It's  like  having  a  horn  stuck  on  the  car 
with  no  place  in  sight  to  stop  and  have  it 
fixed.  You  just  stay  in  line  and  keep 
moving  along.  But  now  the  show's  changed. 
The  title,  too.  Now  it's  The  Arthur  Godfrey 
Show,  and  I'm  doing  more  of  what  I  Uke 
and  it's  fun.  Lot  of  the  fun  is  new  talent. 
Helping  the  young  ones  up.  And  when  they 
get  in  the  big  money  they  can  go  out  on 
their  own.  Now  Jan  Davis,  who  is  pro- 
ducing Monday's  Talent  Scouts,  will  be 
feeding  a  lot  of  new  people  into  the  Wed- 
nesday night  slot.  And  another  thing  we 
will  do  is  relax  and  do  what  sounds  in- 
teresting and  forget  about  the  variety  for- 
mat. We'll  do  a  lot  of  traveling  and 
originate  from  points  all  over  the  United 
States.  Eventually,  I  hope  it  becomes  ex- 
actly the  kind  of  show  I  wanted  in  the 
beginning — where  good  friends  meet  to  be 
entertained  and  talk  about  things  that  in- 
terest them." 

Second  question:  What  do  you  expect 
to  be  doing  20  years  from  now? 

Answer:  "Hope  to  be  doing  the  same 
things.  No,  I'll  be  seventy-three.  I  hope  by 
that  time  I'll  be  doing  many  of  the  things 
I  want  to  do  today  and  can't.  Like  flying 
a  helicopter  right  into  the  center  of  town. 
I'd  like  to  still  be  on  my  horses  and  don't 
see  why  I  shouldn't  be.  My  instructor  is 
67." 

Third  Question:  What  do  you  think  of 
American  women? 

Answer:  "Well,  I  think  American  wom- 
en are  wonderful.  No,  if  I  were  to  criticize 
Americans,  both  sexes,  it  would  be  to  bring 
up  the  only  thing  I  can  see  against  them — 
they  don't  appreciate  their  country  and 
its  opportunities.  And  one  other  thing,  or 
the  same  thing.  People  aren't  thinkers.  I 
wish  people  would  stop  oftener  to  think 
things  out  for  themselves  rather  than  ac- 
cepting whatever  they  read  or  hear." 

Fourth  question:  What  goal  should 
people  have — success,  happiness? 


Answer:  "You  can't  have  happiness 
without  some  success  and  you've  got  to 
work  for  it,  but  health  is  the  important 
thing.  Health.  As  long  as  you've  got  that, 
you  can  enjoy  life.  And  health  is  another 
thing  that  we  have  to  be  grateful  for  as 
Americans.  When  I  was  born,  life  ex- 
pectancy was  about  forty -three.  Now  the 
average  man  can  expect  to  live  until  sixty- 
five.  Few  other  countries  in  the  world  have 
the  conditions — the  economy,  the  institu- 
tions and  equipment,  the  researchers  and 
the  doctors — ^that  make  this  possible  for 
us." 

Fifth  question:  Wliat  principles  have 
guided  you  to  success? 

Answer:  "Trying  to  be  on  the  level  all 
the  time.  You  know  the  story,  after  the 
car  accident,  I  was  in  a  cast  for  weeks  and 
weeks.  I  listened  to  the  radio.  The  same 
kind  of  radio  I  had  been  doing  before  the 
accident.  And  it  all  sounded  so  phony. 
Everyone  was  trying  to  talk  like  Milton 
Cross.  Everyone  reading  someone  else's 
words  and  sounding  like  it.  That's  when 
I  decided  to  be  myself  and  take  my  chances. 
I  make  mistakes  but  they  are  my  own 
mistakes  and  honest  ones." 

Sixth  question:  Who  is  the  most  mem- 
orable woman  or  man  or  entertainer  you 
have   known  ? 


a  moment 

longer  from 

HEARTBURN— 
ACID   INDIGESTION 


Get  TUMS  Ideal  Relief... 
People-tested^^  by  Grateful 
Mothers! 

While  carrying  baby,  you'U  find 
modem  TtXMS  are  such  a  blessing! 
Now  those  acid  attacks  needn't 
cause  you  another  minute  of  dis- 
tress. Just  eat  one  or  two  tasty 
TXJMS.  They  quickly  dissolve  just 
right  to  get  to  the  stomach  fast 
. . .  and  neutrahze  the  excess  acid 
that  causes  your  heartburn.  And 
TUMS  relief  really  lasts!  tums 
scientific  formula  contains  no 
soda,  no  alkahzers  . . .  nothing  to 
upset  yovir  digestion.  They're  safe, 
fast,  and  sure.  Used  by  millions 
of  grateful  mothers.  Carry  tums 
wherever  you  go! 


FOR  THE  TUMMY 

STILL  ONLY    10<  A    ROLL.  3-itOLL  PACK  25tf 


67 


Answer:  "When  you  say  memorable  I 
think  of  Alfred  Drake's  performance  in 
'Kismet.'  That  was  beautiful.  And  W.  C. 
Fields  is  the  funniest  man  I've  ever 
watched.  But  forgetting  show  business  and 
speaking  of  people  I  personally  know  of, 
I  would  say  Helen  Keller  is  the  most 
memorable  woman.  When  you  leave  her 
presence  you  feel  that  you've  been  as  close 
to  the  Deity  as  you  ever  will  get  on  earth. 
What  she  has  done  for  herself  is  what  I 
call  using  your  head.  Maybe  before  you 
first  meet  her  you  feel  sorry  for  her  blind- 
ness. But  you  don't  feel  sorry  for  her  when 
you  leave.  You  feel  sorry  for  yourself. 
Your  miserable  self.  She  is  just  so  won- 
derful, so  complete.  And  the  greatest  man 
I've  ever  met.  That's  easy.  That  would  be 
Curtis  Emerson  LeMay.  General  LeMay  is 
a  man  dedicated,  selfless,  conscientious, 
capable.  Here  is  a  man  who  is  concerned 
with  only  one  thing — the  safety  of  his 
country.  There  he  is  commanding  strategic 
bombing,  which  in  reality  is  our  only  de- 
fense. Yet  we  don't  give  him  much  help. 
His  personnel  are  underpaid.  Officers  in  his 
command  are  constantly  being  offered 
double  their  pay  to  work  for  industry.  A 
technical  sergeant,  at  the  end  of  enlist- 
ment, can  go  to  work  for  industry  at  a 
weekly  salary  that  equals  his  monthly  pay 
in  the  Air  Force.  It's  Curt's  job  to  persuade 
these  officers  and  men  to  stay  on  even 
though  they  may  have  families  to  be  con- 
cerned about.  General  LeMay  is  a  patriot 
in  the  truest  sense.  He  deserves  some 
help.  We've  got  to  be  honest  with  our- 
selves. These  people  are  there  to  protect 
our  lives.  They  fall  into  a  special  category 
with  other  groups  like  teachers.  They  are 
not  getting  the  respect  and  compensation 
equivalent  to  the  importance  of  their 
work." 

Seventh    question:    What  ^8    the    most 


difficult    problem    you    have    ever    faced? 

Answer:  "It's  a  continuing  one.  It's 
crowds.  I  can't  walk  into  a  grandstand  or 
a  restaurant  or  theater  without  feeling 
squeezed  in.  I've  watched  other  entertain- 
ers do  it  and  some  like  the  recognition. 
One  of  our  big-name  comedians — his  name 
doesn't  matter — I  once  saw  him  at  a 
race  track.  He  stood  up  and  shouted,  'Hey, 
everyone,  here  I  am.  Here  I  am.'  Now, 
for  him  it's  different.  He  loves  to  be 
mobbed.  Well,  I've  tried  it  every  way. 
I've  gone  into  a  place  with  heavy  glasses 
and  a  hat — and  I've  gone  in  with  just  no 
disguise  to  brazen  it  out.  But  no  matter 
what  I  do  I  just  can't  feel  comfortable.  If 
it  were  a  matter  of  sitting  down  in  a 
parlor  with  these  people  and  just  relaxing, 
it  would  be  different — but  when  it's  com- 
ing at  you  like  a  street  parade,  I  don't 
know.  I'm  not,  I  guess,  the  real  celebrity 
type." 

Eighth  question:  What  makes  you 
angry? 

Answer:  "It's  when  people  do  stupid 
things  and  louse  themselves  up.  It  doesn't 
really  make  me  angry.  It  mostly  hurts. 
That's  aU.  Thinking,  that's  what  it  comes 
to  again.  It's  fine  to  be  handsome  or  have 
a  lovely  voice  or  a  beautiful  face  and 
figure.  But  what  good  is  any  of  it  if  there 
isn't  some  gray  matter  up  there  being  put 
to  use?" 

Ninth  question;  What  advice  would 
you  give  a  youngster  who  hopes  to  go  into 
television? 

Answer:  "Surveys  show  that  there  are 
2.6  persons  to  each  set.  So  you  got  to  think 
about  talking  to  them.  Not  to  millions,  not 
to  a  mass,  but  just  one  or  two.  You  are 


in  their  living  room  and  they  want  close- 
ups  so  they  can  see  your  face  and  eyes. 
They  are  going  to  get  to  know  you  in- 
timately. Well,  you'd  better  grow  on  them,  . 
and  your  personality  develops  by  improv-  ■ 
ing  your  character.  You've  got  to  do  things.  Tl 
Study.  Sports.  Travel.  But  stay  away  from 
the  joints.  You've  got  to  grow.  Be  inter- 
esting. Character  is  the  one  word.  Above  J  j 
and    beyond    talent    you've    got    to    have  I ' 
character,  for  television  brings  people  just 
as  close  as  your  next  door  neighbor." 

Tenth   question:    What   kind   of   world 
do  you  hope  for  your  children? 

Answer:  "The  kind  of  world  where  we 
have  eliminated  the  constant  threat  of  war. 
And  I  think  we  can  do  it  by  being  so  pow- 
erful that  no  one  wiU  attack  us.  You  know 
it's  going  to  take  only  one  plane  and  one 
bomb  to  blow  up  a  whole  city.  And  the 
enemy  can  get  through  despite  radar  and 
fighter  planes.  You  know  that  during 
World  War  II,  no  American  bombing  mis- 
sion was  ever  stopped  short  of  its  target 
by  enemy  action.  So  let's  face  it.  If  we  can 
do  it,  so  can  the  enemy.  So  what's  the 
answer?  We  must  be  ready  to  knock  out 
any  enemy  the  moment  war  is  declared.  We 
must  have  long-range  intercontinental 
bombers  that  can  sit  back  here  like  a . 
cocked  pistol  and  scare  anyone  from  fight-  1 
ing.  We  don't  have  enough  bombers  or 
enough  trained  personnel  or  enough  bases 
now.  We  have  to  get  them  quickly.  And 
then,  when  the  threat  of  war  is  elimi- 
nated, we  start  to  set  the  world  right. 
There  is  no  excuse  for  people  starving 
anywhere.  There  is  no  reason  for  people 
working  as  they  did  a  thousand  years  ago 
—and  in  some  parts  of  the  world  they  are 
that  far  behind.  Now  with  atomic  fission 
for  power  the  standard  of  living  of  the 
entire  world  must  be  raised." 


(Continued  from  page  39) 
carries    you    to    what    appears    almost    to 
be  a  small  camp  grovmd,  just  the  thing  for 
informal  open-air  entertaining.  Barbecue, 
TV,  refrigerator,  radio,  and  dance  area  are 
covered  by  a  diingled  cabana.   Just  out- 
side,  a   green   lawn   and   blue-green  pool. 
The  house  and  grounds,  together,  make  a 
a  paradise  to  fulfill  any  woman's  dreams. 
"Gail  had  been  looking  for  a  house  for 
some  time,"  says  her  mother,  Mrs.  W.  B. 
Grayson.  "Suddenly  she  found  this  place— 
and,  believe  it  or  not,  she  fell  in  love  with 
the   groimds  and   not   the   house.   In   fact, 
never  thinking  of  the  house,  she  bought  it 
for  the  charm  of  the  surroundings."  Then 
she  adds:    "Gail  decorated  the  house  her- 
self— or,  I  should  say,  in  conjunction  with 
a  decorator.  But  she  was  in  a  quandary. 
No  sooner  had  the  house  been  turned  over 
to  her  than  she  had  to  go  out  on  the  road. 
"She  was  on  the  telephone  with  the  dec- 
orator every  day,"  her  mother  smiles,  "to 
see  how  things  were  coming,  making  sure 
he  wasn't  putting  in  something  she  didn't 
want.      Then    frequently,    while    on    tour, 
she'd   see   a  piece   of  furniture   she  liked. 
For  example,  in  Texas,  Gail  found  a  pair 
of  matching  tables  she  thought  would  be 
just  right  for  the  living  room.    She  called 
the  decorator,  describing  them  to  him.  She 
did  this  a  number  of  times  with  various 
pieces    of    furniture.      Then    she'd    begin 
worrying   for   fear   he'd    get   her    descrip- 
tions  confused.     She   called   back    saying, 
'Don't  get  it,  don't  get  it!     Wait  till  I  get 
T    home  .  .  .'  When  she  finally  returned,  there 
*    were    just    bits    and    pieces— nothing    was 
"    completed." 

Now,  however,  the  house  is  a  fair  reflec- 
tion of  the  two  main  facets  of  Gail's  per- 
68 


Golden  Girl 

sonality:  Annie  Oakley,  the  tomboy,  and 
Gail  Davis,  the  ultra-feminine  woman. 
Take  the  captain's  chairs  in  the  dining 
room,  for  example.  They  are  made  of 
heavy  rock  maple  and  weigh  about  fifteen 
pounds  each.  Heavy  Dutch  doors  are  in 
many  rooms  of  the  house.  The  furniture 
in  the  living  room  is  substantial — just  as 
Gail  is  substantial  and  down  to  earth.  Like 
Annie  Oakley,  she's  a  gal  with  both  feet 
planted  squarely  on  the  ground. 

In  the  library-den,  Gail's  Annie  Oakley 
scripts  fill  one  wall;  they  are  bound  in 
white  calf.  For  decorator  touches,  she  has 
"Annie  Oakley"  dolls  sitting  on  the  floor 
and  in  the  corner  of  a  bunk-like  couch. 
Horsehead  bookends,  a  leather  lamp  shade, 
and  steerhorns  on  the  wall  carry  the  west- 
ern theme.  There  is  a  small  bronze  bust 
of  her  Western  boss,  Gene  Autry,  on  the 
maple  table.  And  the  kitchen  is  the  final 
proof  that  Gail  loves  the  West — from  the 
saddle-bridle-and-Stetson  design  in  the 
wallpaper  to  the  shiny  brass  coffee  pot  and 
knife-holder,  every  detail  spells  easy 
"chuckwagon"  living. 

Gail's  bedroom,  on  the  other  hand,  re- 
flects the  second  facet  of  her  personality — 
her  frilly,  little-girl  and  feminine  side.  The 
bedroom  is  pink  and  white:  White  cur- 
tains with  pink  background;  white  rugs, 
pink  hassock;  white  dressing  table,  set 
against  a  pink  rice  paper  wall  (which  she 
specially  ordered) ;  and,  finally,  Gail's 
white  toy  kittens  on  top  of  her  bed  are 
balanced  by  her  pink  slippers  on  the  floor 
below. 

A  little  pink  appears  in  all  the  rooms- 
Gail  jokingly  asks,  "Guess  my  favorite  col- 
or?" In  all  the  rooms,  that  is,  except  the 
dining   area.   "But,"   says  Gail,   "I  haven't 


finished  the  dining  room  .  .  .  I'll  get  some 
pink  in  there  yet!" 

Gail's  clothes  also  reflect  the  two  basic 
aspects  of  her  personality.  She  literally 
lives  in  Western  garb  all  day— but  the 
minute  she  gets  home  she  changes  to  frilly 
feminine  clothes.  When  she  is  on  tour, 
however,  out  come  the  tailored  cowgirl 
suits.  Even  here,  though  Gail  knows  she 
has  to  be  in  character  for  her  appearances, 
she  doesn't  go  overboard.  Her  specially 
tailored  suits,  which  are  extremely  expen- 
sive, have  only  a  slight  Western  flair- 
nothing  so  extreme  that  you  could  say: 
"Well,  there  goes  a  cowgirl." 

At  home,  her  favorite  outfit  is  a  hostess 
coat— pink,  naturally.  She  also  likes  to 
wear  peasant  clothes,  since  she  considers 
full  skirts  and  full  sleeves  extremely 
feminine.  Though  Gail  does  not  wear 
toreador  pants,  she  does  wear  slacks;  but 
the  blouses  she  wears  with  the  slacks  are 
never  too  tailored.  As  to  jewelry,  Gail  in- 
frequently wears  a  plain  single  necklace 
or  a  gold  chain  bracelet  with  pearls— then 
she  considers  herself  really  dressed  up. 

Gail  is  completely  un-HoUywood.  She 
is  unpretentious,  not  gaudy  or  ostenta- 
tious. She  loves  home.  In  fact,  she  loves 
both  her  homes— the  new  one  in  Holly- 
wood, and  her  parents'  place  in  Little 
Rock,  Arkansas.  She  has  an  I-love-small- 
towns  attitude.  During  the  filming  season, 
she  takes  every  opportimity  available  to 
fly  to  Arkansas  for  a  visit— sometimes  for 
only  two  days.  But,  of  course,  each  flight 
is  a  trip  of  love,  for  Gail  not  only  goes 
home  to  visit  with  her  mother  and  sister, 
but  also  to  see  her  own  little  five-year- 
old  daughter  Terry.  Terry— or  "Boot,"  as 
Gail   fondly   nicknamed   her— is   a   bundle 


of  loving  blue  eyes  and  blond  curls.  She 
spends  six  months  of  the  year  with  Gail 
in  Hollywood.  During  the  days,  Gail  drives 
off  to  work  at  five  in  the  morning,  and 
Terry  is  watched  over  by  her  grandmoth- 
er. Every  summer,  too,  Terry,  Gail's  sis- 
ter Shirley,  and  Mrs.  Grayson  come  to 
Gail's  North  Hollywood  home  to  play  and 
vacation  in  the  sun.  And,  when  Terry  is 
"home"  in  Little  Rock,  Gail  sends  her  love 
by  phone  three  or  four  times  a  week. 

Besides  her  frequent  three-day  flying 
weekends  in  Little  Rock  to  visit  her 
daughter  (Gail  was  divorced  five  years 
ago),  Gail  is  very  close  and  much  inter- 
ested in  her  younger  sister,  Shirley.  She 
loves  to  share  the  little  triumphs  that  are 
part  of  her  growing  sister's  life.  For  ex- 
ample, when  Shirley  won  a  lead  in  the 
high-school  senior  play,  "I  Remember 
Mama,"  Gail  felt  a  great  pride  in  her  sis- 
ter's ability.  She  worked  doubly  hard  on 
her  latest  Annie  Oakley  episode  so  she 
could  take  an  extra  day  off  to  fly  home  for 
the  performance.  "It  was  only  because  I 
was  the  smallest  one  in  the  class,"  says 
Shirley,  "that  I  was  asked  to  play  Dag- 
mar."  But  Gail  disagrees,  saying  her 
sister  is  an  extremely  competent  actress. 

Gail's  ability  as  an  actress,  of  course, 
goes  unquestioned.  She  has  been  singing 
and  dancing  since  she  was  two.  Her  first 
public  appearance  was  made  at  three, 
when  she  was  voted  "the  most  beautiful 
baby  in  Arkansas."  Her  parents.  Dr.  and 
Mrs.  W.  B.  Grayson,  encouraged  her  from 
the  start  and  provided  dancing  lessons  to 
develop  her  talent.  She  was  active  in  all 
outdoor  sports  (which  later  came  in  handy 
for  her  Annie  Oakley  role)  and,  in  high 
school,  she  became  an  outstanding  dra- 
matic student.  For  the  next  two  years, 
Gail  studied  drama  at  Harcum  Junior  Col- 
lege in  Bryn  Mawr,  Pennsylvania.  The 
well-known  director,  Richard  Nash,  was 
her  instructor  at  that  time.  "We  did  one 
show  a  month,"  says  Gail,  "built  sets, 
learned  the  art  of  make-up,  stage  tech- 
nique, and  hair-dressing — it  was  grand 
experience." 

Gail  later  went  on  to  the  University  of 
Texas,  where  she  continued  her  dramatic 
work  and  won  the  distinction  of  being  se- 
lected as  one  of  the  famous  "Blue  Bonnet 
Belles."  Gail  met  Gene  Autry  through 
some  mutual  friends  when  she  was  still  in 
Texas.  They  met  again  in  1950,  in  Holly- 
wood, and  Gene  asked  Gail  to  co-star  with 
him  in  one  of  his  Westerns,  "Cow  Town." 
"I  was  scared  to  death,"  Gail  recalls,  "be- 
cause I  wanted  so  desperately  to  succeed." 

For  years,  Autry  had  wanted  to  produce 
a  series  of  motion  pictures  which  would 
establish  the  first  girl  Western  star.  As 
Gene  says,  "Little  boys  have  had  their 
idols— Tom  Mix,  William  S.  Hart,  Buck 
Jones  and,  later,  Roy  Rogers  and  me — 
from  the  beginning  of  the  picture  business. 
They've  always  had  it  over  their  sisters  in 
this  respect,  because  little  girls  had  to 
idolize  the  same  stars — all  men.  Why  not 
give  the  girls  a  female  Western  star  of 
their  own?"  This  is  and  has  been  his  rea- 
soning— but  he  was  stymied  in  his  search 
for  the  right  girl.  He  wanted  an  actress 
who  looked  the  type,  who  could  ride  and 
shoot,  yet  at  the  same  time  reflect  fresh- 
ness, youth  and  dignity.  He  could  find  no 
one  who  fulfilled  all  the  specifications. 

Then  came  Gail  Davis. 

Gail  is  one  of  the  hardest-working  girls 
in  television.  When  the  Annie  Oakley  se- 
ries is  being  filmed,  she  is  sometimes  up 
at  4:30  A.M. — does  her  own  hair  in 
pigtails — drives  to  the  ranch  for  the  out- 
door scenes,  and  often  works  until  7:00 
P.M.  that  night.  Then  she  goes  home  to 
do  her  own  housecleaning  and  cooking. 

Gail  admits  she  gets  tired.  On  location 
—after  dinner,  after  studying  her  lines, 
after  a  nightly  hairwash,  and  after  cream- 
ing   her    sun-and-wi'^id-swept    face    three 


times — Gail  turns  in  for  a  well-deserved 
sleep.  She's  found  that  rest  is  her  best 
beauty  preparation. 

At  home,  as  on  location,  Gail  follows  the 
same  rigorous  work  pattern — the  early-to- 
bed,  early-to-rise  routine  is  followed  reli- 
giously. She  only  allows  herself  an 
occasional  Sunday-night  date;  then,  more 
often  than  not,  she  entertains  the  Annie 
Oakley  crew  with  a  steak  dinner  prepared 
on  the  outdoor  barbecue.  She  works  so 
hard  there  is  not  much  time  left  for  dating. 

As  a  result  of  her  hard  work,  Gail  had 
an  unfortunate  experience  shortly  after 
moving  into  her  new  home.  She  came  in 
one  night,  put  a  steak  (her  fare,  three 
nights  out  of  five)  on  the  broiler  and  fell 
asleep  on  the  couch.  When  she  woke  up 
two  hours  later,  the  house  was  filled  with 
smoke.  Her  new  home  was  nearly  ruined 
— the  drapes  and  carpet  had  to  be  cleaned, 
the  kitchen  repainted.  Even  the  bedroom 
needed  repairs.  She  spent  $5,000  and  moved 
out  of  her  precious  paradise  for  a  month 
while  it  was  again  refinished. 

When  Annie  Oakley  is  not  in  produc- 
tion, Gail — being  a  stickler  for  detail — 
rehearses  as  much  as  four  hours  a  day, 
spending  two  hours  practicing  her  riding 
and  two  hours  at  target  practice  and  other 
Western  stunts.  She  is  methodical — when 
given  the  Oakley  role,  Gail  began  build- 
ing a  library  of  books  about  Annie  Oakley. 
Now  she's  an  authority  on  the  character. 

Also,  when  Annie  Oakley  isn't  in  pro- 
duction, Gail  is  on  the  road  making  per- 
sonal appearances.  In  1955,  for  example, 
it  was  estimated  she  flew  some  50,000 
miles,  and  drove  another,  40,000.  Her 
yoimg  fans,  having  learned  that  Gail 
travels  by  air  so  frequently,  have  taken  to 
hanging  around  Los  Angeles  International 
Airport  in  the  hope  of  an  autograph. 

Gail's  methodical  nature  saves  her  time 
and  effort  in  packing,  a  routine  she  now 
has  down  to  a  science.  For  a  recent  trip 
to  Casper,  Wyoming,  she  took  four  cos- 
tumes— enough  for  three  shows.  "In  do- 
ing shows,"  she  says,  "you  have  to  pack 
in  such  a  way  that  your  clothes  do  not  get 
creased.  I  put  tissue  paper  in  the  sleeves 
and  under  the  shoulders  of  all  my  coats. 
For  speed,  I  keep  my  gun  belt  and  boots 
in  special  bags — that  way,  the  white  polish 
does  not  come  off  on  the  clothes.  I  put  my 
full  slips  in  a  bag,  too.  I  roll  them  up 
tightly,  and  put  a  rubber  band  around 
each  end.  This  not  only  saves  space,  but 
keeps  them  from  crushing.  Skirts,  I  pin 
on  the  hangers  with  small  bits  of  ribbon. 
They  hang  straight  and  full — and,  again, 
are  not  creased.  After  making  these  trips 
for  three  years,  I  think  I've  finally  learned 
how  to  pack  a  bag. 

"On  toxir,  we  are  like  a  big  family — 
some  of  the  crew  members  have  been  with 
Mr.  Autry  for  over  twenty  years.  Though 
it's  hard  work,  I  enjoy  it.  We  work  until 
eleven  P.M.,  then  all  eat  together  and 
don't  get  to  bed  imtil  two  A.M. — then  up 
again  at  six  to  get  to  the  next  town — but 
it's  stimulating."  However,  Gail  admits, 
that,  after  three  or  four  weeks  of  these 
one-night  stands,  the  gang  are  all  looking 
toward    Hollywood    and   home. 

As  important  and  rewarding  as  her 
home  is,  something  equally  important  in 
relation  to  Gail's  career  happened  just  re- 
cently. Gail  was  invited  to  the  wedding 
of  John  Wayne's  daughter,  Toni.  Wayne 
remembered  Gail  from  a  very  small  part 
in  a  picture  they  did  together  when  she 
first  came  to  Hollywood.  After  the  cere- 
mony, he  came  over  to  say:  "Gail,  I  never 
miss  you  in  your  Annie  Oakley  series  .  .  . 
you're  just  great  in  it.  Say,  would  you 
mind  giving  me  your  autograph?  For  my 
youngest  daughter,  Melinda,  you  know." 
Coming  from  the  Duke  of  all  Western 
stars,  Gail  felt  this  remark  the  ultimate 
compliment,  adding  to  the  joy  she  feels 
about  both  her  home   and  Annie  Oakley. 


Save  $1.00  Under 
Newsstand  Prices 

Mail  This  Coupon  Today 

TV  RADIO  MIRROR,  TV  1-57 
205  East  42  St.,  N.Y,  17,  N.  Y. 

Yes!  Enter  my  bargain  subscription  at  once. 
Send  me  the  next  16  issues  of  TV  Radio 
Mirror  for  only  $3.00.  I  enclose  $3.00  as 
payment  in  Full. 

Name 

Address. . . 


(Pleas*  Print) 


City Zone .  . .  State . 


LEARN  WHILE  ASLEEP! 


PHENOMENAL    RESULTS!      $2  rushes 

fact'filled  instruction  book,  "Sleep- 

LearninE— Its  Theory,  Application  & 

Technique.   Guaranteed.   RESEARCH 

ASSOCIATION.   P.O.  BOX  610-V.  Omaha,  Nebr. 

OHJViY 
ACHING  BACK 

Now !  You  can  get  the  fast  relief  you  need  from 
nagging  backache,  headache  and  muscular  aches 
and  pains  that  often  cause  restless  nights  and  mis- 
erable tired-out  feelings.  When  these  discomforts 
come  on  with  over-exertion  or  stress  and  strain— 
you  want  relief— want  it  fast !  Another  disturbance 
may  be  mild  bladder  irritation  following  wrong 
food  and  drink  — often  setting  up  a  restless  un- 
comfortable feeling. 

For  quick  relief  get  Doan's  Pills.  They  work  fast 
in  3  separate  ways :  1.  by  speedy  pain-relieving  ac- 
tion to  ease  torment  of  nagging  backache,  head- 
aches, muscular  aches  and  pains.  2.  by  their  sooth- 
ing effect  on  bladder  irritation.  3.  by  their  mild  j 
diuretic  action  tending  to  increase  output  of  the  15  „ 
miles  of  kidney  tubes. 

Find  out  how  quickly  this  3-way  medicine  goes  to         R 
work.  Enjoy  a  good  night's  sleep  and  the  same  happy 
relief  millions  have  for  over  60  years.  Ask  for  new, 
large  size  and  save  money.  Get  Doan's  Pills  today ! 

69 


This  Is  Where  It  All  Began 


(Continued  from  page  20) 
want  it — all  right,  we'll  sell  the  store"  .  .  . 
and  freed  him  to  go  his  own  way?  Was 
this  success  sparked  by  the  taunts  of  those 
who  were  so  openly  sure  he  wouldn't 
make  it?  Those  who'd  turned  a  knife  in 
a  young  boy's  dream? 

The  answers  to  this  one  would  take  more 
than  thirty  seconds.  For  Hal  Mendelson, 
they'd  taken  thirty-six  years.  .  .  . 

During  his  triumphant  homecoming,  ac- 
companied by  TV  Radio  MniROR's  re- 
porter, Hal  March  was  to  relive  those 
years  leading  up  to  today,  to  go  back 
where  the  big  dream  began.  And  through 
his  eyes  and  memories,  through  the  words 
and  memories  of  his  mother,  his  sister 
Bessie,  childhood  friends,  old  neighbors — 
all  those  who  had  known  Hal  Mendelson 
very  well — the  answers  and  the  pieces 
would  fall  into  place.  Pieces  of  a  success 
story  as  heartwarming  and  inspiring  as 
any  Hal  March  himself  helps  materialize 
on   The   $64,000    Question,   over    CBS-TV. 

A  success  story  that  began  in  an  old, 
faded  flat  down  in  the  once-tough  Mis- 
sion District  of  San  Francisco  in  the  days 
of  gang  wars,  when  cops  patrolled  only 
in  pairs.  Here  Hal's  Romanian-born 
parents,  Leon  and  Ethel  Mendelson, 
operated  their  first  delicatessen  store.  And 
here,  one  high  noon,  their  youngest — 
Harold,  pride  of  his  parents,  his  sisters, 
Frieda,  Bessie,  and  Ruth,  and  his  older 
brother  George — was  born.  .  ,  . 

"Right  here  on  Eighteenth  Street,  be- 
tween Valencia  and  Mission,"  Hal  March 
was  saying  now.  "Many  of  the  kids  I 
knew  here  are  in  San  Quentin  today,  but 
the  district's  different  now — nicer  now." 
Hal  was  looking  about  him  eagerly  for 
their  old  fiat.  "It  was  that  second  one, 
I  think,  an  old  wooden  fiat  with  concrete 
steps.  But  they  were  all  condemned — 
they've  put  new  fronts  on  all  the  buildings 
now.  I  was  born  right  at  home  with  the 
aid  of  a  'lady  doctor' — or  midwife,  as 
some  would  say." 

At  an  early  age,  Hal  demonstrated  the 
charm  which  was  later  to  make  him  so 
warmly  loved  throughout  the  land.  He 
had  a  very  high  neighborhood  rating,  even 
then.  His  sisters  took  care  of  him  after 
school  while  their  mother  worked  at  the 
store,  and — as  Bessie  (Mrs.  Isadore 
Friedman)  remembers — ""The  neighbors 
were  always  wanting  us  to  bring  him  over 
to  their  houses  and  baby-sit.  They  would 
even  make  'appointments.' " 

Bessie's  was  a  firm,  sisterly  hand  in  in- 
tention— but  not  always  in  the  result. 
"I  was  always  trying  to  teach  him  to 
speak  correctly  then,  and  particularly  to 
always  say  thank  you."  But  Hal  had  an 
early  aptitude  for  the  ad  lib,  too  .  .  . 

"Hal,  do  you  want  a  cracker?"  a  neigh- 
bor asked  indulgently  one  day. 

"Yes,"  he  said  promptly. 

"What  do  you  say,  honey?"  his  sister 
prompted.      "Yes    what?" 

"Put  some  butter  on  it,"  said  Hal. 

As  his  sister  has  laughingly  commented, 
"Hal  knew  what  he  wanted,  even  when 
he  was  two  and  a  half  years  old." 

By  the  time  he  was  six,  Hal  had  an 
alert  eye  for  his  billing,  too:  "Our  older 
brother,  George,  had  a  baby  son,  Les, 
who  was  only  four  years  younger  than 
Hal  and  always  large  for  his  age.  But, 
from  the  time  Les  could  talk,  our  younger 
brother  made  him  call  him  'Uncle  Hal.* 
If  he  didn't,  Hal  wouldn't  answer  him!" 
'        From  the  beginning,  Hal  leaned  to  show- 

*  business  hours,  too — and  to  sleeping  late. 

*  It  was  a  family  project  to  awaken  him, 
and  his  sisters  spelled  each  other  stand- 
ing  over   Hal,    shaking   him    and   making 

70 


sure  he  was  on  his  feet  and  scrubbed  and, 
finally,  safely  on  his  way  to  school.  As  his 
mom  put  it,  years  later,  "God  was  good 
to  you.  You  got  a  business  where  you 
can  sleep  as  late  as  you  want  to."   .  .   . 

But  Hal  March  was  thoroughly  awake 
now,  going  on  to  the  two-family  flat  his 
dad  later  bought  on  California  Street,  in 
a  better  neighborhood.  Every  landmark 
so  keenly  associated  with  teen-age  mem- 
ories was  coming  alive  for  him:  "This 
hospital  wasn't  here  then.  None  of  this 
was  here.  Just  open  country.  This  is 
California  Street  now — that's  right,  they 
took  up  the  streetcar  tracks.  That  drug 
store  was  here  then.  And  that's  our  house 
right  there!"  he  was  saying  excitedly,  indi- 
cating the  two-family  gray  stucco  flat 
with  the  familar  twenty-five-foot  San 
Francisco  front  and  two  small  green 
shrubs  bravely  substituting  for  a  front 
yard. 

"The  yard  was  in  the  back,  really,"  Hal 
was  remembering,  "five  square  yards  of 
lawn.  Why,  the  house  is  still  the  same 
color!  I  don't  think  they've  even  painted 
it  since  we  lived  here.  That  front  upstairs 
room  on  the  left  .  .  .  that  was  my  mother's 
£ind  father's  bedroom  .  .  ." 

The  street  where  you  lived.  The  house 
where  you  lived.  There's  magic  in  every 
memory.  Here,  in  that  back  bedroom 
upstairs,  an  excited  teenager  would  lie 
awake  dreaming  of  the  big  adventure  ahead 
of  him — the  "star"  he  would  be  in  Holly- 
wood. He'd  broken  in  his  first  catcher's 
mitt  in  the  "five  square  yards"  in  the 
back,  and  also  playing  catch,  during  lulls, 
behind  the  delicatessen  store. 

For  young  Hal  Mendelson  and  his  gang, 
for  all  kids  of  the  Depression,  there  was 
little  time  and  little  space  to  play.  As 
Sam  Elkind,  whose  father  had  a  poultry 
store  two  doors  from  the  delicatessen  on 
McAllister  Street,  had  put  it:  "We  both 
did  a  regular  day's  work  after  school. 
We'd  play  baseball  back  of  the  store  and 
Hal  automatically  'caught' — he'd  gotten  the 
catcher's  mitt  for  his  birthday,  and  he  was 
so  proud  of  it.  I  remember  how  he  kept 
showing  us  'how  hard  the  slap'  was." 

During  this  time,  together  with  Jim 
Diamond  (today  a  San  Francisco  advertis- 
ing man)  and  Ed  Susnow  (now  a  doctor), 
they  organized  the  "Brandeis  Club," 
named  for  the  late  Chief  Justice  Brandeis, 
and  met  in  a  room  at  the  Hebrew  School. 
By  then,  too,  Hal's  singing  voice — which 
later  came  as  a  surprise  to  many,  when 
they  heard  him  on  television  spectaculars 
— was  showing  some  promise  semi-com- 
mercially.  Hal  and  Sam  Elkind  (today  a 
dramatic  teacher)  sang  with  the  choir  at 
the  Children's  Synagogue. 

Hal  was  dedicated  to  one  dream  from 
the  age  of  twelve:  "I  had  a  comedy  part  in 
an  operetta,  'Malenka  of  Astrakhan,' 
when  I  was  going  to  Roosevelt  Junior 
High.  Feeling  the  reaction  out  front — 
knowing  all  those  people  out  there  were 
watching  you — that  did  it!  I  fell  in  love 
with  audiences  then.  And  I  haven't 
changed,"  Hal  was  reminiscing  now,  head- 
ing toward  another  alma  mater,  George 
Washington  High.  .  .  . 

And,  from  the  first,  audiences  returned 
Hal's  affections,  his  family  noted.  "He  wore 
a  black  suit  and  a  flat  black  derby  and  he 
was  very  funny,"  his  mom  had  smiled, 
remembering.  And  he  was  a  smash  in 
"Tom  Sawyer,"  she  recalled,  "The  next 
day,  all  the  customers  came  into  the 
store  talking  about  it."  His  dad  had  been 
very  proud — "very  glad  to  see  him  so 
well  received,  so  successful  in  the  part." 

In  the  second  play — in  the  role  of  "Puff 
Potter,"  the  town  dnmk— thirteen-year- 
old   Hal   had   the    audience   right   in   his 


hands  .  .'  .  and,  heady  with  his  success, 
he  wouldn't  let  them  go.  "When  he  went 
on  stage,  he  went  down  center  and 
hammed  it  up  something  terrible,"  his  sis- 
ter Bessie  has  noted.  "He  was  so  drunk — 
drunker  than  fourteen  people  could  be! 
— and  the  audience  laughed  at  him  so 
tnuch  they  didn't  hear  the  others'  lines." 

ITiat  night,  when  they  got  home,  Bessie 
had  a  serious  talk  with  him  about  the 
way  he'd  tried  to  hog  the  whole  show. 
"Haven't  you  heard  of  group  spirit?"  she 
chided.  "How  the  play  is  the  thing?" 
Well,  yes,  he'd  heard  of  that,  he  said — "But. 
Bess,  I  was  having  such  fun!" 

On  or  off  stage,  even  then,  with  his 
magnetism  and  personal  charm,  Hal  Men- 
delson always  had  an  audience,  anyway. 
He  was  elected  president  of  the  whole 
student  body — numbering  2,000  students! 
— at  George  Washington  High,  his  fu'stl_ 
year  there.  And  you  have  his  sister's 
word  (and  Hal's  agreement)  that  scho- 
lastic ability  had  nothing  to  do  with  it: 
"The  school  was  brand-new,  and  it  was 
quite  an  honor.  Hal  promised  them  big- 
ger and  better  rallies  and  less  homework 
— he  had  a  great  platform.  They  loved 
him  and  he  got  elected.  My  brother  al- 
ways had  this  basic  charm,  and  it  worked 
miracles.  With  teachers,  too.  He  never 
studied,  never  brought  a  book  home."  His 
puzzled  family  could  only  surmise  that 
teachers  personally  felt  he  was  bright,  and 
just  passed  him,  anyway. 

At  his  tritimphant  homecoming  recep- 
tion, Hal's  high-school  counselor  and 
home-room  teacher,  Frank  Morton,  had 
twinkled:  "I'd  like  $64,000  for  the  two 
questions  Hal  and  I  asked  each  other 
when  I  was  his  counselor  in  high  school. 
On  his  part,  'Will  I  ever  pass — before  I 
pass  out?'  And,  on  my  part,  'Why  don't 
you  study  more?  You'll  never  get  any 
where.' "  But  he'd  also  observed  that 
Hal  Mendelson  knew  where  he  was  go- 
ing, even  then:  "Frankly,  Hal  didn't  re- 
quire much  counseling  from  the  faculty. 
He  knew  definitely  what  he  wanted  to 
do — and  he  did  it." 

Prophetically  enough,  in  his  graduation 
year,  the  school  yearbook  featiu-ed  a  shot 
of  Hal  at  a  microphone.  Through  the 
years,  he  had  always  tried  to  reassure  his 
family  not  to  worry  about  a  paper  he 
was  supposed  to  be  preparing  or  a  speech 
he  would  have  to  give.  "When  the  time 
comes — I'll  know  what  to  say,"  he  woiild 
turn  it  aside  casually.  And  he  usually 
did.  Words  came  easily  and  forcefully 
to  him.  As  president  of  the  student  body, 
he  delivered  a  stirring  speech  before  six 
hundred  veterans,  with  the  mayor  in  at- 
tendance— and  also  Hal's  mom,  misty- 
proud.  He  emceed  school  activities  and 
entertained  with  imitations. 

He  was  equally  active  in  athletics,  pri- 
marily track  and  football.  "The  football 
field  wasn't  here  then,"  Hal  was  saying 
now,  touring  his  old  alma  mater,  and 
filled  with  memories.  "We  used  to  play 
our  games  at  other  stadiums.  The  audi- 
torium wasn't  finished,  either — we  held 
our  graduation  at  Commerce  High."  Hal 
played  center  on  the  team,  then  fullback 
— "Got  my  nose  broken  that  year."  This 
had  worried  him  a  little,  with  his  heart 
set  on  show  business,  but  having  noses 
rebuilt  was  considered  somewhat  of  a 
luxury  then.  Later,  in  the  army,  playing 
ball  with  some  buddies,  he  got  his  nose 
broken  again  ("the  other  way — that 
straightened  it  out"). 

"That  store  at  the  corner  of  the  school 
grounds,"  he  was  remembering  nostalgi- 
cally, "that's  where  we  used  to  go  for 
hamburgers.     You   could    get   a   plate   of 


spaghetti  and  a  hamburger  for  twenty 
cents.  .  .  .  Lana  Turner  was  one  of  the 
students — her  name  was  Judy  Turner 
then.  She  was  a  year  or  two  behind  me." 
But  it  was  during  the  years  working 
behind  the  counter  of  his  dad's  delicates- 
sen store  that  Hal  Mendelson  developed 
the  great  compassion  which,  coupled  with 
his  charm,  would  someday  prove  the 
magic  combination  that  would  give  him 
the  largest  audience  in  the  nation  and 
make  him  so  warmly  welcome  in  their 
homes.  His  father  was  a  man  of  great 
compassion  and  a  true  "good  Samaritan," 
the  philosopher  and  the  philanthropist  of 
McAllister  Street. 

"My  father  was  no  business  man.  Not 
that  we  did  badly.  We  never  starved  in 
the  Thirties,  when  others  were  in  the 
breadlines — and  neither  did  anybody  else, 
if  my  father  knew  it.  He  was  an  intelli- 
gent man,  and  he  preferred  to  spend  his 
time  reading  and  in  discussion  with 
priests  and  rabbis  who  would  gather  in 
our  store.  He  had  no  money — he  gave  it 
all  away."  Leon  Mendelson  early  im- 
pressed on  each  of  his  children  to  give  the 
customer  a  fair  measure,  and  they  would 
often  find  him  giving  a  customer  three 
ounces  too  much.  If  they  mentioned  it, 
he  would  say,  "But  she  has  three  chil- 
dren. She  needs  it — and  we  have  lots 
of  it—" 

Now,  it  filled  Hal  with  warm  pride,  to 
be  remembering:  "I  found  out,  after  my 
father  died,  that  he  had  been  supporting 
as  many  as  sixty  families  during  the  tough 
times — and  he'd  never  mentioned  it.  There 
were  a  thousand  people  crowding  into  the 
temple  for  his  funeral — and  outside  in  the 
street,  for  a  block.  He  was  a  giant  among 
men." 

On  McAllister  Street,  Hal  learned  to 
know  and  to  weigh  life  in  all  its  dimen- 
sions. He  absorbed  the  human  drama  all 
around  him — as  well  as  the  dialects  and 
characteristics  which  proved  invaluable 
in  the  human  characterizations  he  later 
gave  on  the  Burns  And  Allen  and  other 
top  Hollywood  radio  shows.  "It  was  a 
very  cosmopolitan  section.  We  had  a  lot 
of  nationalities  in  our  neighborhood,  and 
I  have  a  good  ear  for  sounds.  I'd  learn 
the  dialects  from  customers  who  came  into 
our  store  and  mimic  them,"  Hal  was  say- 
ing now.  But  he  never  ridiculed  them 
when  he  used  their  voices  on  radio,  his 
family  proudly  noted  later  on:  "Hal  would 
always  portray  them  with  kindness  and 
warmth." 

And  during  one  interval,  while  working 
behind  the  counters,  Hal  and  Sam  Elkind 
even  worked  up  a  cooperative  teen-age 
band.  Sam  played  the  piano,  as  Sam  had 
recalled,  "and  Hal  was  front  man  in  a 
white  jacket  and  baton.  He  also  sang 
the  vocal  refrains."  They  called  their 
group,  "Tommy  Parker  and  His  Orchestra," 
and  their  insignia  was  a  teepee.  "It  was 
a  fictitious  billing,  calculated  to  throw 
the  Musicians'  Union  off  guard.  None  of 
us  had  the  hundred  dollars  to  join  the 
union.  They'd  say.  Who's  the  orchestra 
leader?  We'd  say.  Tommy  Parker.  It 
was  a  dodge,  but  it  worked  ...  for  a 
while.  This  was  during  the  Benny  Good- 
man era,  and  we  used  to  all  go  in  a  group 
and  'absorb'  music." 

Hal  was  absorbing  the  vaudeville  shows 
at  the  Golden  Gate  Theater  then,  too: 
"I  went  down  there  every  Friday  night 
and  watched  the  show  with  my  tongue 
hanging  out.  Maybe  someday  I'd  be  on 
the  bill,  too." 

He  was  frequently  "on"  in  the  store, 
however.  "The  customers  all  loved  him," 
his  mother  had  said,  the  memory  bright 
in  her  brown  eyes.  "Hal  always  came  into 
the  store  with  a  song.  He  was  always  so 
I  full  of  life  and  sunshine.  The  Salvoni 
I  Brothers — Italians     who     had     a     market 


across  the  street  from  ours — would  sing 
'Pagliacci'  and  Hal  would  join  in  with 
them.  We  also  had  a  butcher  who  sang, 
and  they  were  always  singing  and  dancing 
and  making  opera  in  the  store.  But  Hal 
cared  nothing  about  the  delicatessen  busi- 
ness. He  was  so  good-natured  he  wouldn't 
say  no,  about  helping  us.  But  sometimes 
he  would  say  to  me,  'Mama — I  hate  the 
store.  If  I'm  fifty  years  old,  I'll  be  an  ac- 
tor— no  matter  what  anybody  says." 

True,  Hal  was  saying  slowly  now,  "I 
felt  as  if  I  were  in  prison  there.  I  couldn't 
wait  to  leave,  but  my  dad  was  sixty-five 
years  old,  and  it  was  traditional  for  the 
son  to  help  out  the  father  in  the  business." 

r  or  Hal  Mendelson,  the  fever  to  act 
was  becoming  a  burning  thing  inside  of 
him.  McAllister  was  a  dead-end  street, 
and  he  was  living  for  the  day  when  he 
could  break  out.  .  .  . 

"My  father  was  really  the  kind  of  man 
who  wanted  me  to  do  what  I  wanted  to 
do,  but  nobody  in  our  family  had  ever 
even  talked  show  business,  and  this  came 
from  'way  out  of  left  field.  He  just  couldn't 
see  the  point  of  my  wanting  to  be  an  actor." 
A  practical  aunt  put  it  this  way,  "How 
can  you  make  a  living?  You  have  no  back- 
ground at  all."  Hal's  sister  Bessie  and 
his  mom  wanted  him  to  go  to  college  or 
to  Pasadena  Community  Playhouse,  where 
he  had  been  offered  a  free  scholarship, 
and  prepare  for  his  profession.  But  he 
was  too  impatient  to  begin.  "I  can  learn 
while  I'm  doing.  I  don't  want  to  take 
that  time,"  he  said,  having  no  way  of 
knowing  just  how  many  long  years  it 
was  going  to  take. 

To  Dave  Apfelbaum,  the  kind  old  barber 
who  had  cut  Hal's  hair  since  he  was  eight 
years  old,  he  would  bare  his  heart.  In 
those  days,  he  spent  a  lot  of  time  in  the 
old  barber  shop  across  from  the  store.  He 
would  bring  the  barber  his  favorite  "im- 
ported German  liverwurst"  when  his  dad 
got  it  in,  sit  down  and  relax  and  start 
dreaming  out  loud.  Talking  of  show  busi- 
ness.   The  actor  he  would  be  some  day. 

"Sure,"  the  barber  would  say  affec- 
tionately. "Sure  you  will.  You're  going 
to  get  a  good,  heavy  stepladder  and  you're 
going  to  be  on  top — high  up — " 

But  there  was  another  merchant  on  the 
street  who  was  ready  to  kick  down  every 
hope  Hal  voiced  to  him.  "What  makes 
you  think  you  can  act?  Who  are  you  kid- 
ding? You'll  wind  up  on  McAllister  Street 
just  like  all  the  rest  of  us.  You  wait  and 
see,"  he  would  scoff.  .  .  . 

Going  back  to  McAllister  Street  now — 
to  Hal  March,  this  seemed  like  only  yes- 
terday. The  wound  so  deep  and  still  so 
sensitive  in  his  memory.  "I  made  the 
mistake  of  letting  him  know  I  wanted  to 
be  an  actor  and  wanted  to  go  to  Holly- 
wood," he  was  recalling.  "And  he  broke 
my  heart  when  I  was  a  kid.  He  was  the 
successful  merchant  on  the  street.  I  was 
the  son  of  the  small  merchant.  I  remem- 
ber he  used  to  say,  'How  in  the  world  are 
you  going  to  be  an  actor?  How  will  you 
do  it?'  I  didn't  know  how.  There's  no 
set  way. 

"After  I  got  to  Hollywood,  the  first 
time  I  got  a  national  network  show,  I 
drove  up  in  front  of  his  store  in  a  brand- 
new  Cadillac.  'How  are  things  in  Mc- 
Allister Street?'  I  asked  him.  The  next 
time,  I  went  back  in  a  brand-new  Jaguar." 

"How  you  doing  down  there?"  the  mer- 
chant had  asked.  Then,  "Must  be  doing 
all  right,"  he  said,  looking  at  the  car 
and  obviously  impressed.  "Well,  no — it's 
a  little  slow,"  Hal  had  breezed.  "I'm  just 
making  two  thousand  a  week  now.  I  took 
a  cut — "  watching  the  man's  face  .  .  .  and 
remembering  how,  in  the  past,  he'd  hurt 
a  kid  with  his  pocket  fuU  of  dreams.  .  .  . 

Now,  Hal  March  was  going  back  to  Mc- 


BE  YOUR  OWN 
MUSIC  TEACHER 

Send    for    Free    Book    Telling    How    Easily        ,^      AO 
You    Can    Learn    Piano,    Guitar,    Accordion,       JJ-bJ^*    i 
ANY    Instrument  This   EASY   A-B-C    Way 

NOW    IT'S    EASY    to    learn    music    at 
home.    No    tiresome    "exercises."    No 

teacher,  just  .START  RIGHT  OUT  playing  

simple  pieces.  Thousands  now  play  who  never  thought 
they  could.  Our  pictured  lessons  make  it  easy  as  A-B-C 
to  learn  to  play  popular  music,  hymns,  classical  and  any 
other  music.  On  easy-pay  plan,  only  a  few  cents  a  lesson. 
Over  900,000    students!    (Our  59th   successful  year.) 

Stop  Cheating  Yourself  of  These  Joys! 
Popularity!  New  friends.  Gay  parties.  Good  times.  Career, 
Extra  Money.  Understand,  appreciate,  and  converse  about 
music.  Learn  lives  and  compositions  of  modern  and  great 
masters  .  .  .  Relax!  Banish  worries  and  frustrations. 
Satisfy  self-expression,  creative  urge.  Gain  self-confidence. 
MAIL  COUPON  FOR  FREE  BOOK.  Find  out  why  our 
method  can  teach  you  quickly,  easily,  inexpensively.  Write 
for  36-page  illustrated  Free  Book.  No  obligation.  Mention 
your  favorite  instrument.  Just  mail  coupon  today!  No 
salesman  will  call  upon  you. 

U.    S.    SCHOOL 
OF    MUSIC 

Studio   A20I 
Port    Washington,    N.    Y. 


U.    S.    SCHOOL    OF    MUSIC 
Studio   A201,    Port   Washington, 


(Please   Print) 


'^'HVi:liiJ:» 


TO  THE  WRITER 
OF  BEST  SONG 

SEIECTEO 
EACH  MONTH 


•    Send   your   songs   or   poems   today. 

Music   composed   for   your   words.    R*- 

I  cords   and  copies  furnished.   Let  us  try 

!  to   help  you   be  a   success  in  this  field, 

HOLLYWOOD  TUNESMITHS 

1609  VisU  Del  Mar,  DepLD.        Hollywood  28,  Calil 


MAKE  $50-$60  A  WEEK 

You  can  learn  at  home  In  spare  time. 
Choice  of  careers :  practical  nurse, 
nursing  aide,  hospital  attendant,  infant 
nurse,  nurse-companion,  doctor's  office, 
etc.  Course  supervised  by  physician. 
5  8th  year.  Equipment  included.  Men, 
women,  18  to  60.  High  school  not  re- 

quiied.   Easy  tuition   payments.   Trial  plan.   Write  today. 
CHICAGO  SCHOOL  OF  NURSING 
Dept.  21.  25   East  Jackson   Blvd.,   Chicago  4.    III. 

Please  send  free  honl-let  and  lf>  sample  lesson  pages. 

Name ._ 

Ottj/_ State Age 


—because  you  lack  a 
HIGH  SCHOOL  DIPLOMA 

•  You  can  qualify  for  an  American  School 
Diploma  in  spare  time  at  home!  If  you  have 
left  school,  write  or  mail  coupon  for  FREE 
booklet  that  tells  how.  No  obligation  of  any 
kind. 

I OUR  60TH  YEAR 1 

AMERICAN  SCHOOL,   Dept.   H153  I 

Drexel  at  5Sth,   Chicago  37,   Illinois  | 

Please  send  FREE  High  School  booklet.         j 

Name I 

Address I 

City   &  State j 

Complete  Canadian  Courses  available.   Write  American     1 
School.  Dept.  H153,   6083  Slierbrooke  St.  W.,  Montreal     \ 


71 


9153 — Basic  fashion  for  a  smart 
wardrobe — this  shirtwaist  dress  is 
wonderful  every  season  of  the  year. 
Printed  Pattern  in  Misses'  Sizes  12- 
20;  3042.  Size  16  takes  4^4  yards  39- 
inch  fabric;  %  yard  contrast.  State 
size.  35^ 

9371 — ^Young,  slim  lines  are  espe- 
cially flattering  to  the  shorter,  fuller 
figure.  Half  sizes  141/2-24  Va.  Size  leVa 
takes  4%  yards  35-inch  fabric.  State 
size.  35^ 

9077 — Just  one  yard  of  35-inch  fab- 
ric makes  each  of  these  pretty  little 
serving  styles!  You're  sure  to  want  a 
colorful  apron  trio  for  yourself  and 
for  gifts.  Pattern  comes  in  Medium 
Size  only,  takes  1  yard  35-inch.  35<^ 


9077 

ONE  SIZE 
MEDIUM 


€acA  One  1faA<S.  35' 


9371 


14y2-24'/2 


"  Send  thirty-five  cents  (in  coin)  for  each  pattern  to:  TV  Radio  Mirror,  Pattern  Depart- 
ment, P.O.  Box  137,  Old  Chelsea  Station,  New  York  11,  New  York.  Add  five  cents  for 
each    pattern    for    first-class    mailing.    Be    sure    to    specify    pattern    number    and    size. 

72 


AUister  Street  again,  and  for  the  first  time 
since  he'd  become  a  star  in  television  with 
The  $64,000  Question.  This  time,  he  was 
going  back  as  star  of  the  most  successful 
show  in  TV.  With  not  only  the  gold  key 
to  all  of  San  Francisco,  but  the  magic 
key  to  almost  every  home  in  America. 

This  time,  he  was  going  back  in  a  shiny 
black  limousine  with  a  chatiffeur  and  a 
police  escort,  and  bringing  a  beautiful 
bride  to  introduce  to  them  all.  ... 

"I  spent  the  biggest  part  of  my  youth 
here,"  Hal  was  saying  now,  emotionally 
"I  was  raised  with  these  people.  The 
barber  who  used  to  cut  my  hair  is  still 
here." 

In  some  ways,  the  street  seemed  the 
same.  Cops  were  escorting  a  frowsy-haired 
woman  into  a  paddy  wagon  and  taking 
her  away — and  creating  almost  no  stir. 
This  is  not  news  here.  Nor  is  a  siren 
news.  But  Hal  March  is.  The  whole 
street  turns  out  to  welcome  him.  Shabby 
lace  curtains  part  from  windows  of  musty 
rooming  houses,  and  heads  poke  forth, 
llie  Chinese  laundry  man,  the  flower 
woman,  the  lady  from  the  bakery,  a^ 
veteran  on  crutches.  Delicatessen  mer- 
chants in  white  aprons  flood  the  street. 
All  nationalities,  all  ages— they  come  from 
nowhere,  surrounding  him..  It's  "old  home 
week"  on  McAllister  Street.  Leon  Men- 
delson's  boy  has  come  home  ...  a  star. 
The  block  echoes  with  shouts  back 
and  forth.  "Remember  me,  Hal?  .  .  . 
Hi,  Hal.  .  .  .  There's  Hal!  .  ._.  Got  time 
for  a  pastrami  sandwich,  Hal?" 

The  delicatessen  store  is  a  "Launder- 
ette" now.  "Shag  rugs  washed,  dried  and 
fluffed"  there.  No  longer,  his  dad's  prized 
home-churned  sweet  butter  or  corned 
beef.  No  longer  there — the  gentle-faced 
Santa  Claus  of  the  street.  Hal's  eyes 
moisten  and  he  turns  away.  .  .  . 

"There's  Dave's  barber  shop — and  there's 
Dave!"  he  says,  going  to  greet  him.  The 
old  barber  throws  his  arms  around  Hal's 
neck  affectionately.  "Hal  you  look  thin. 
Your  beautiful  hair — you  cut  'em  off."  To 
Hal's  lovely  wife,  Candy,  he's  saying,  "You 
got  good  husband— not  a  better  boy  in  this 
world.     I  know." 

And,  to  one  and  all,  Dave  is  saying,  "H 
is  like  my  own  child.  I'm  so  tickled  to  se 
him  so  far  up.  This  boy,  I  knew  he'< . 
make  it.  You  haven't  got  another  boy  in 
Hollywood  with  such  a  great  soul  as  this 
boy.  To  suffer,  to  struggle,  was  nothing 
for  this  boy."  To  Hal,  his  parting  word 
is:  "You  got  yourself  a  good  fine  step- 
ladder.    Now  you  stay  up  there." 

And  in  the  crowd  in  the  street,  paying 
homage,  too,  is  the  merchant  who  put  r 
knife  in  a  yoimg  boy's  dream.  "Today, 
Hal  was  saying  quietly,  "today,  he  says. 
'He's  my  boy!' " 

They  were  wrong,  any  of  those  who 
doubted  young  Hal  Mendelson.  He  was 
never  about  to  wind  up  on  McAllister 
Street.  The  music  he  could  make  was 
too  happy — the  dedication,  too  strong.  No 
struggle  was  too  great  to  get  where  he  i 
wanted  to  go.  "You  don't  know  how 
you're  going  to  do  it.  You  just  know 
you've  got  to  try — or   die.   .   .   ." 

And,  one  rainy  night,  eighteen-year-old 
Hal  Mendelson  had  braved  it  and  hitched 
a  ride  to  Hollywood  to  try.  "It  was  raining 
cats  and  dogs  that  night  Hal  left,"  his 
mom  weU  recalls.  "I  felt  terrible  and  I 
cried.  He  didn't  have  anything  to  do. 
He  didn't  have  anywhere  to  go  there.  But 
it  worked  out  fine,  God  bless  him.  That 
was  the  right  road  for  him.  .  .  ." 

But  not  before  years  of  struggle.  And 
true  to  life's  irony,  Hal  Mendelson  was 
to  get  his  real  start  on  the  professional 
stage — not  in  Hollywood— but  in  a  bur- 
lesque house  on  the  other  end  of  .  . 
McAllister  Street. 

(Part  II— February  issue.) 


Hero  at  Home 


(Continued  from  page  46) 
Stover.'  You  may  not  know  it,  but  Love 
Of  Life  is  one  of  the  biggest  things  on  this 
island.  Practically  everyone  watches  it,  on 
kinescope — which  is  the  way  they  get  it 
here,  instead  of  by  live  TV.  Betty  Swizer, 
the  girl  who  is  going  to  interview  you,  is 
one  of  your  big,  big  fans,  so  don't  worry 
•  about  being  unprepared.  She  probably 
knows  as  much  on  the  show  as  you  do." 

Dick  Coogan  laughs  when  he  talks  about 
it  now.  "You  know,  the  man  was  right! 
When  I  walked  into  the  studio,  Betty 
Swizer  introduced  me  as  if  I  were  an  old 
friend — which  I  suppose  I  was,  because  of 
Love  Of  Life.  I  had  no  idea  of  what  I 
was  going  to  say.  The  whole  thing  had 
happened  too  fast.  But  she  was  just  great. 
She  had  all  the  right  questions,  without 
seeming  to  reach  for  them.  It  couldn't 
have  gone  better  if  it  had  been  planned 
ahead.  Excepting  that  I  got  carried  away 
by  her  enthusiasm  and  by  the  knowledge 
that  Love  Of  Life  was  so  well  known  and 
liked  in  that  far-off  idyllic  island,  and  I 
practically  gave  away  the  whole  story  line 
for  weeks  ahead.  It  was  around  the  time 
when  the  locket,  and  the  mystery  of  the 
pictxu-e  in  it,  was  getting  important  to  the 
plot,  and  I  found  myself  spilling  a  little 
of  that  carefully  guarded  information.  I 
talked  about  Vanessa,  and  Meg  Harper, 
and  little  Carol  and  the  others,  and  there 
was  hardly  anything  I  left  unsaid.  All 
complimentary — and  true,  because  they're 
a  wonderful  bunch." 

No  one  has  reported  the  number  of 
feminine  hearts  that  fluttered  precariously 
that  day,  when  it  became  known  Paul 
Raven  was  actually  in  their  midst,  in  tiie 
person  of  Dick  Coogan,  but  the  count  could 
be  impressive.  It  would  take  color  TV  to 
show  his  reddish-blond  hair  and  blue  eyes, 
but  the  impression  of  kindness  mingled 
with  strength  in  this  well-built  man — who's 
six-foot-three — shows  up  just  as  well  in 
black  and  white.  So  does  the  firm  jaw  line 
which  warns  you  that,  beneath  the  easy- 
going, friendly  manner,  this  is  a  man  who 
can  be  tough  in  a  fight,  if  he  must  be. 
Probably  because  he  looks  like  a  good 
scrapper,  he  has  often  been  in  fights,  on 
TV  and  in  the  movies.  So  many  of  them 
that  it's  extra-lucky  he  leads  a  serene  and 
happy  home  life  with  his  wife.  Gay,  and 
seven-year-old  Richard  Jr. — who's  called 
Rick  to  differentiate  him  from  his  daddy. 

"Being  one  of  ten  kids  myself,"  Dick 
grins,  "I  had  to  learn  early  how  to  fight 
back.  There  can  be  a  lot  of  scraps  in  a 
large  Irish  family — both  in  and  out  of 
the  home — so  I've  had  my  share  of  donny- 
brooks!  It's  odd,  under  the  circumstances, 
that  I  seem  to  take  so  much  physical  pun- 
ishment on  the  screen,  without  being  al- 
lowed to  fight  back!" 

In  the  pictiu-e,  "Three  Hours  to  Kill," 
Dana  Andrews  was  supposed  to  throw 
Dick  a  punch,  for  the  camera  only,  not 
actually  hitting  Dick.  "But,"  Dick  laughs, 
"hang!  Dana  clouted  me — instead  of  miss- 
ing— and  I  was  out."  In  another  movie, 
"Girl  on  the  Run,"  Dick  had  a  struggle 
.  with  a  powerful  ex-prizefighter  actor.  "It'll 
look  good  for  the  camera,"  he  told  me 
confidently,  "but  you  won't  know  you're 
JDeing  hit."  All  went  fine,  imtil  the  director 
kept  urging  the  fighter  on  to  more  and 
more  realistic  close-ups.  After  Dick  got 
through  rocking  from  the  blows  he  took, 
tile  director  said  everything  went  well — 
but  why  didn't  Coogan  keep  looking  to- 
ward the  camera?  "As  if  I  had  any  choice 
but  to  look  in  the  direction  in  which  this 
guy  was  banging  my  head,"  says  a  still 
combative  Coogan,  who  only  asks  for  a 
chance  to  fight  back  fairly. 


During  the  Broadway  run  of  the  stage 
play,  "The  Rainmaker,"  in  which  Dick 
played  Sheriff  File  a  couple  of  seasons  ago, 
he  had  to  get  off  stage  fast,  before  the 
lights  went  up  on  the  next  scene.  One 
night,  he  ducked  off  so  quickly  he  missed 
his  direction  and  ran  into  a  pipe.  He 
played  the  rest  of  the  performance  with 
a  bump  over  his  wounded  eye.  Another 
time — on  the  Martin  Kane  TV  series — Lee 
Tracy  was  supposed  to  miss  him  with  a 
punch,  but  it  landed  on  Dick's  mouth.  A 
commercial  coming  in  at  that  moment 
gave  Dick  time  to  collect  his  wits  and  re- 
pair  the    damage   with   a    little   make-up. 

By  contrast,  all  is  comparatively  peace- 
ful at  home  with  the  Coogans.  In  spite  of 
her  burnished  red  hair.  Gay  has  none  of 
the  tempestuous  and  mercurial  moods  usu- 
ally ascribed  to  redheads,  and  her  blue 
eyes  look  calmly  upon  the  world  around 
her.  Living  up  to  her  name.  Gay  has  a 
flair  for  making  life  seem  filled  with  pleas- 
ant things  already  happening  or  about  to 
happen    any   moment. 

ohe  was  Gay  Adams  before  she  was 
married,  a  singer  with  vast  ambitions  who 
saw  them  flower  into  a  successful  night- 
club career  before  she  gave  up  the  rest  of 
her  career  dreams  to  take  care  of  Dick  and 
Rick.  When  Dick  met  her,  he  was  carrying 
a  spear  (or  similar  lethal  weapon)  in  a 
Leslie  Howard  production  of  "Hamlet,"  and 
Gay  was  a  decorative  lady-in-waiting.  But 
Dick  didn't  get  a  chance  to  ask  her  for  a 
date — until  after  he  had  been  knocked 
down  by  a  cab  while  pushing  Leslie  How- 
ard out  of  its  path  one  night!  Dick  wasn't 
really  hurt,  but  it  was  enough  to  make 
Gay  ask  about  his  health.  This  gave  him 
courage — and  the  opportunity — to  ask  her 
to  dinner  one  night. 

"Now,"  Dick  smiles,  "when  we  go  to  a 
club  and  hear  some  singer  hold  a  roomful 
of  people  spellbound,  it  is  hard  for  Gay 
to  reeJize  tiiat  she  once  did  this.  I  can 
remember  when  I  would  sit  at  a  table, 
listening  to  her,  watching  the  room  quiet 
down,  the  waiters  stop  serving.  Seeing 
every  head  turned  her  way,  feeling  the 
emotion  she  was  building  up  between  her- 
self and  the  audience.  Sometimes,  it  seems 
a  shame  she  gave  all  this  up,  because  her 
voice  is  a  lovely  one.  But  I  am  sure  you 
couldn't  persuade  Rick  it  is  a  mistake  to 
have    his    mother    at    home!" 

Rick  was  born  June  10,  1949,  while  his 
daddy  was  appearing  on  television  as  that 
dashing  spaceman.  Captain  Video.  When 
Rick  was  beginning  to  toddle  around,  he 
would  watch  Dick  on  the  screen,  then 
circle  the  set,  when  the  program  went  off, 
looking  for  him  at  the  back.  He  never 
could  figure  out  where  Daddy  had  disap- 
peared to!  Now,  Rick  is  a  second -grader, 
very  busy  with  his  own  pursuits,  seldom 
able  to  see  Love  Of  Life  because  of  its 
noontime  slotting.  He  takes  his  dad's  job 
as  actor  pretty  much  in  stride — and  that's 
the  way  the  Coogans  want  it.  Whether  or 
not  he  will  be  an  actor  hasn't  yet  even 
been  discussed,  although  in  many  ways 
he  follows  the  pattern  of  Dick's  interests. 

"Some  days,  I  think  Rick  is  the  image  of 
Dick,"  says  Gay,  "and,  some  days,  Dick 
thinks  he  is  the  image  of  me — so  it  mtist 
be  that  he's  a  combination  of  us  both. 
He  is  built  like  his  father.  He  has  Dick's 
mouth.  We  knew,  the  day  he  was  born, 
that  his  ears,  with  hardly  any  lobes,  were 
going  to  be  just  like  Dick's.  Puckish,  Pan- 
like ears." 

"Rick  has  Gay's  profile  and  her  fine 
eyes.  And  Gay's  temperament,"  Dick 
adds.  "I  hope  he  has  inherited  Gay's 
brains.  She  has  great  inner  resources,  and 
great  inner  strength,  and  her  reactions  to 


The    soothing, 
refreshing  skin  con- 
ditioner  that   pene- 
trotes   and    brings 
relief  to  numbing, 
tingling   muscles  in 
back  and  legs  .  .  . 
ends  the  dis- 
comfort of 
^ARENT^  tight,  dry 
skin. 

At  Drug  Stores  Everywhere. 

THE  S.S.S.  COMPANY,  ATLANTA,  GA. 

POEMS  WANTED 

■  ^^  ^^  IWI  MM    ^°^  musical  setting  .  .  .  send 

■  ^^  ^^  ■  ■  ■  ^m  Poems  today.  Any  subject. 
Immediate  consideration.  Phonograph  records  made. 
CROWN  MUSIC  CO.,  49  W.  32  ST.,  Studio  S60,  New  York  1 


WANT  TO  BE 


A  PRACnCAl 


TT 


EASY  TO 


TRAIN   AT  HOME 


ACT  NOW-HELP  FILL  THE  NEED 

r  you  can  prepare  for  practical  experience 
Practical  Nurse  in  spare  time.  Many 
earn  while  learning.  Ages    18  to  55.  High 
chool  not  necessary.  Easy  payments.  Write 
rfree  information  and  sample  lesson  pages. 

WAYNE  SCHOOL  OF  PRACTICAL  NURSING 

2S25  Shatfleld  Av*..  Datk  C.89,  CHICAOO 14,  Ut. 


'500  yrRGhilds  Photo 


Yes,  up  to  $500  and  more  PAID  if  used  for 
TV,  Calendar  or  Magazine  Ads.  YOUR  CHIIO 
has  same  opportunity.  Send  ONE  small  photo 
lor  approval.  Print  child's  and  mother's  name 
and  address  on  back.  Returned  in  2  weeks 
with  report.  (Ages  6  mo.  to  ISyrs.) 

NO  OBLIGATION.  (Established  1946) 
HOLLYWOOD  SPOTLITE,  Depl.  AA 
1611     No.     LaBrea,     Hollywood,    Calit. 


BE  A  BEAUTY  ADVISOR 

f  Show  You  How 

Previous  experience  unnecessary.  Make 
as  much  as  $5.00  in  one  hour  just  advis- 
ing friends  and  neighbors  on  proper  use  of 
famous  Studio  Girl  Hollywood  Cosmetics. 
Become  an  expert  with  only  a  few  hours  study. 
^^"•y"**^  Ail  inxormatioD  free.  If  you  send  name  today 
^^Miinieed  bir^V  I  will  also  send  free  samples — no  cbarge  now 
N^  °"^^/  or  at  any  other  time.  Send  your  name  to  me, 
^ —  Harry  Taylor,  President,  at  address  below. 
STUDIO  GIRL  HOLLYWOOD  COSMETICS 
DEPT.    3871  CLENDALE  4.  CALIFORNIA 


SHORTHAND 


3  IN  6  WEEKS 

Write  120  Words  Per  Minute. 
Age   no   Obstacle    —   LOWEST    COST 

Famous  SPEEDWRITING  shorthand.  No  symbols,  no 
machines,   uses  ABC's.  Easiest  to   leam  and   use.   Fast 

f reparation,  for  a  better  position.  Nationally  used  in 
eading  offices  and  Civil  Service.  120  words  per 
minute— 50-^0  FASTER  than  Civil  Service  require- 
ments. Over  350,000  taught  by  mail  or  through  class- 
room instruction.  The  very  low  cost  will  surprise  you. 

Typing  available.  34th  Year.  Schools, , 

in  over  400  cities  In  U.  S,.  Canada.  DID  TOU  SEC 

Cuba  and  Hawaii.  «««^.  ^-      I  lEADER'S  DIGEST 

WRITE   FOR   FREE   BOOKLET     I  article 

TO  SCHOOL  OF  |  OM  I 


73 


everything  that  happens  are  .''Iways  right. 
I  couldn't  wish  for  any  bettei  inheritance 
for  our  child." 

In  New  York,  the  Coogans  live  on  the 
upper  East  Side,  in  a  comfortable,  roomy, 
homey  apartment.  Summers,  they  spend  in 
'their  cottage  on  Long  Island,  overlooking 
Great  South  Bay,  where  they  swim  and 
fish  and  boat — and  a  small  boy  can  dream 
big  dreams  of  sailing  the  Seven  Seas.  And, 
always,  the  three  of  them  spend  a  lot  of 
time  together. 

They  have  had  the  same  after-prayers 
routine,  at  Rick's  bedtime,  ever  since  he 
first  began  to  talk.  Like  most  kids,  he  hated 
to  have  his  parents  leave  him  with  noth- 
ing to  do  but  go  to  sleep — and  who  cared 
about  sleep  when  so  much  of  interest  was 
still  going  on  in  the  grownup  world?  He 
could  always  think  of  one  last  question  he 
wanted  to  ask,  and  finally  that  turned  into 
three  questions,  repeated  nightly.  First 
question:  Will  you  give  me  chocolate  milk? 
This  meant  that,  if  he  woke  up  during  tihe 
night,  it  was  already  settled  that  he  could 
have  some  milk.  He  still  asks  it — but  prac- 
tically never  wakes  up.  Second  question: 
Will  you  leave  the  door  open?  This  was 
because  the  door  was  closed  until  he  got 
to  sleep,  opened  before  his  parents  went 
to  bed.  It  stays  open  now,  but  it's  part  of 
the  bedtime  ritual  to  ask — and  perhaps 
it's  still  a  form  of  security  for  a  little  boy 
left  alone  in  a  big  room.  Third  question: 
Will  you  have  breakfast  with  me?  This 
one  is  still  very  important,  answered  in 
the  affirmative,  except  on  rare  occasions. 

"Sunday  breakfast  is  particularly  im- 
portant now  to  Rick,"  Dick  explains.  "I 
don't  play  golf  on  Sundays.  But,  after 
church,  we  like  to  go  to  the  club  for 
breakfast.  The  big  dining  room  pleases 
Rick.  All  the  men  eat  there  and  this 
makes  him  feel  grown-up.  It's  a  very 
special  date  that  morning." 

Dick  says  he  "discovered  golf"  a  few 
years  ago,  and  admits  now  it  was  rather 
rough  on  Gay  and  Rick  when  he  became 
a  golf  fanatic  overnight.  Even  at  home, 
he  spent  his  time  reading  books  on  the 
game  to  improve  his  techniques,  prac- 
ticing putting  and  swings.  He  takes  it  a 
little  more  lightly,  but  he  shoots  in  the 
middle  seventies,  and  has  Rick  handling 
a  small  set  of  clubs  like  a  pro.  "Want  to 
see  a  kid  hit  the  ball  the  way  it  should 
be  hit?"  someone  will  frequently  taunt  an 
adult  who  has  been  working  hard  at  the 


game  all  morning  and  slicing  every  shot. 
Dick  glows  with  pride  at  the  tribute,  but 
Rick  takes  it  in  stride,  never  shows  off. 

Just  like  his  daddy.  Rick  works  hard 
at  what  he  wants  to  learn.  He  takes  to 
sports  like  a  Presley  does  to  rock  'n'  roll. 
He  skis  with  the  grown-ups,  rides  a  bike 
in  a  way  to  make  your  hair  stand  on  end, 
swings  a  bat  like  a  big -leaguer,  began  to 
sit  a  horse  like  a  veteran  when  he  was 
only  three  years  old.  Gay  put  regular  ball- 
bearing roller  skates  on  him  at  two  and  let 
him  learn  balance  and  movement  in  their 
hallway,  where  the  carpet  gave  him  se- 
curity. Later,  they  fovmd  a  beat-up  patch 
of  grass  in  the  park,  to  practice  outdoors, 
before  going  on  the  pavement  with  the 
big    children. 

Gay  is  a  tennis  fan.  Her  grandfather 
was  national  singles  and  doubles  cham- 
pion of  the  United  States  at  one  time,  and 
she  has  his  strong  serve  and  forehand  and 
backhand.  Dick  plays  some  tennis  with 
her,  and  she  goes  to  the  golf  driving  range 
with  him. 

Together,  father  and  son  make  things  in 
Dick's  basement  workshop.  Airplanes. 
Boats.  Bookcases  and  shelves.  There  are 
always  some  pets  around  the  house,  usu- 
ally a  couple  of  parakeets,  a  canary,  and 
always  their  beloved  old  black  cocker 
spaniel,  "Shadow,"  and  the  French  poodle, 
"Misty."  Rick  has  the  normal  small  boy's 
love  for  all  living  things. 

When  Dick  isn't  busy  with  his  carpentry, 
he's  apt  to  be  at  his  easel,  painting.  He's 
self-taught  so  far,  was  offered  thirty-five 
dollars  for  his  second  painting,  a  land- 
scape, but  decided  such  an  "early  Coogan" 
should  be  kept  in  the  family  and  not 
sacrificed  for  mere  money. 

Art  will  never  interfere  with  Dick's  act- 
ing career — but  journalism  almost  did, 
first  at  high  school  in  his  home  town  of 
Madison,  New  Jersey,  and  then  at  Emer- 
son College,  in  Boston.  "I  found  out  that 
what  they  say  about  writing  is  true — 
that  it's  the  art  of  applying  the  seat  of  your 
pants  to  the  seat  of  a  chair.  I  guess  the 
prospect  of  that  much  hard  work  scared 
me  ofE.  Little  did  I  realize  that  acting,  or 
anything  else  you  work  at,  requires  the 
same  devoted   concentration. 

"There  were  ten  children  in  our  family, 
and  I'm  the  only  one  who  become  an  actor. 
A  teacher  got  me  interested  in  school 
dramatics  during  a  period  when  I  was 
ill  and  couldn't  participate  much  in  sports. 


74 


STATEMENT  OF  THE  OWNERSHIP,  MANAGEMENT,  AND  CIRCULATION  REQUIRED  BY  THE  ACT 
OF  CONGRESS  OF  AUGUST  24,  1912,  AS  AMENDED  BY  THE  ACTS  OF  MARCH  3,  1933,  AND 
JULY  2,  1946  (Title  39,  United  States  Code.  Section  233)  Of  TV  RADIO  MIRROR,  published  Monthly  at 
New   York,    N.    Y.,    for   October   1,    1956. 

1.  The  names  and  addresses  of  the  publisher,  editor,  managing  editor,  and  business  managers  are;  Publisher, 
Macfadden  Publications.  Inc.,  205  East  42nd  St.,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. ;  Editorial  Director,  Ann  Higginbotham, 
205  East  42nd  St.,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. ;  Editor,  Ann  Mosher,  205  East  42nd  St.",  New  York  17.  N.  Y. ; 
Secretary-Treasurer,   Meyer  Dworkin,  205  East  42nd  St.,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 

2.  The  owner  is :  (if  owned  by  a  corporation,  its  name  and  address  must  be  stated  and  also  immediately 
thereunder  the  names  and  addresses  of  stockholders  owning  or  holding  1  percent  or  more  of  total  amount 
of  stock.  If  not  owned  by  a  corporation,  the  names  and  addresses  of  the  individual  owners  must  be  given. 
If  owned  by  a  partnership  or  other  unincorporated  firm,  its  name  and  address,  as  well  as.  that  of  each 
individual  member,  must  be  given.)  Macfadden  Publications,  Inc.,  205  East  42nd  St.,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. ; 
Meyer  Dworkin,  c/o  Macfadden  Publications,  Inc.,  205  East  42nd  St.,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. ;  (Mrs.)  Anna 
Feldman,  835  Main  St.,  Peekskill,  N.  Y. ;  Henry  Lieferant,  The  Hotel  Hamilton,  Apt.  1205,  141  West  73rd  St., 
New  York  23,  N.  Y. ;  (Mrs.)  Elizabeth  Machlin,  c/o  Art  Color  Printing  Co.,  Dunellen,  N.  J.;  Irving  S. 
Manheimer,  205  East  42nd  St.,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. ;  Lawrence  H.  Manheimer,  1841  Broadway,  New  York, 
N.  Y. ;  (Mrs.)  Ruth  B.  Manheimer,  Somerstown  Rd.,  Ossining,  N.  Y. ;  Samuel  Schef¥,  1841  Broadway,  New 
York  23,  N.  Y. ;  Joseph  Schultz,  205  East  42nd  St.,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. ;  Arnold  A.  Schwartz,  c./o  A.  A. 
Whitford,  Inc.,  705  Park  Ave.,  Plainfield,  N.  J.;  Charles  H.  Shattuck,  Box  422,  Pharr,  Texas;  (Mrs.) 
Elizabeth  B.  Wise,  RFD  1 — Box  159,  Onancock,  Va. ;  Tabulating  &  Addressing  Corp.,  112  Main  St., 
Ossining,   N.  Y, 

3.  The  known  bondholders,  mortgagees,  and  other  security  holders  owning  or  holding  1  percent  or  more 
of  total  amount  of  bonds,  mortgages,  or  other  securities  are:  (If  there  are  none,  so  state.)  William  E.  Archer, 
435  Del  Rey  Avenue,  Pasadena  8,  Calif.;  Walter  E.  Christensen,  7850  State  Road,  Parma  29,  Ohio;  City  Bank 
Farmers  Trust  Co.,  Trustee  for  Mary  Macfadden,  22  William  St.,  New  York  15,  N.  Y. ;  Walter  W.  Flint, 
Cottonwood,  Id.iho;  James  John  Johnson,  Box  115,  Suring,  Wisconsin;  (Mrs.)  Mary  Macfadden,  406  E.  Linden 
Ave.,  Englewood,  N.  J.;  O'Neill  &  Co..  P.O.  Box  28,  Wall  Street  Station,  New  York  5,  N.  Y.:  (Mrs.) 
Braunda  Macfadden  St.  Phillip,  400  Linden  Ave.,  Englewood,  N.  J. ;  Arnold  A.  Schwartz,  c/o  A.  A.  Whit- 
ford, Inc.,  705  Park  Ave.,  Plainfield,  N.  J. 

4.  Paragraphs  2  and  3  include,  in  cases  where  the  stockholder  or  security  holder  appears  upon  the  books 
of  the  company  as  trustee  or  in  any  other  fiduciary  relation,  the  name  of  the  person  or  corporation  for  whom 
such  trustee  is  acting:  also  the  statements  in  the  two  paragraphs  show  the  affiant's  full  knowledge  and  belief 
as  to  the  circumstances  and  conditions  under  which  stockholders  and  security  holders  who  do  not  appear  upon 
the  books  of  the  company  as  trustees,  hold  stock  and  securities  in  a  capacity  other  than  that  of 
a  bona  fide  owner. 

5.  The  average  number  of  copies  of  each  issue  of  this  publication  sold  or  distributed,  through  the  mails 
or  otherwise,  to  paid  subscribers  during  the  12  months  preceding  the  date  shown  above  was:  CThis 
information  is  required  from  daily,  weekly,  semiweekly,  and  triweekly  newspapers  only.) 

(Signed)    MEYER   DWORKIN,    Secretary-Treasurer 
Sworn  to  and  subscribed  before  me  this  18th  day  of  September,  1956. 

(SEAL)  TULLIO  MUCELLI,  Notary  Public 

State  of  New  York  No.  03-8045500 

Qualified   in   Bronx  Co. 

Cert.  Filed  in  New  York  Go. 

Commission  Expires  March  30,  1958 


I  have  had  a  lot  of  other  jobs  besides 
acting  during  the  early  lean  years — from 
running  an  elevator,  to  selling,  to  defense 
work  in  an  ordnance  plant — but  I  always 
went  back  to  radio  and  the  theater.  I  did 
countless  roles  before  television,  and  made 
my  TV  debut  in  1945  in  The  Front  Page. 
For  a  long  time,  during  my  Captain  Video 
television  period,  I  was  doing  six  eve- 
ning performances  and  two  matinees  on 
the  New  York  stage  with  Mae  West  in 
'Diamond  Lil.'  Sometimes,  I  didn't  know 
who  I  really  was." 

Now,  as  Paul  Raven  in  Love  Of  Life, 
Dick  Coogan  is  a  marked  man  wherever 
he  goes.  Kids  in  the  nighborhood  still  call 
him  "Captain,"  but  everyone  else  refers  to 
him  as  "Paul."  In  fact,  as  Dick  himself 
points  out,  "New  people  I  meet  are  much 
more  interested  in  this  fellow  Raven  than 
they  are  in  Coogan.  I  was  speeding  across 
the  Triborough  Bridge  to  New  York  one 
day  last  summer,  coming  in  from  Long 
Island,  already  fifteen  minutes  late  for  re- 
hearsal and  trying  to  make  up  time.  A 
police  car  suddenly  appeared  out  of  no- 
where and  I  knew  there  was  no  use 
trying  to  talk  my  way  out  of  that.  When 
I  reached  for  my  driver's  license  and  car 
registration,  they  weren't  there,  so  I  was 
in  an  extra  bad  jam. 

"  'And  I'm  late  for  rehearsal,'  I  groaned. 

"  'You  in  show  business?'  the  officer 
asked,  giving  me  a  look  that  said,  This  is 
impossible  because  you  don't  look  like  any 
actor.  'What  show?' 

"I  told  him  he  wouldn't  know  about  the 
show  because  it  was  a  noontime  program 
on  television.  A  show  called  Love  Of  Life." 

"  'What  part  do  you  play?'  he  asked 
suspiciously,  and  I  told  him  Paul  Raven. 

"He  gave  me  a  quick  once-over.  'So 
you're  the  guy  who  has  been  giving  me 
a  hard  time  with  my  wife,'  he  said.  'All 
she  does  it  talk  about  this  Raven  guy.  And 
aU  I'd  have  to  do  is  go  home  and  say  I 
gave  Raven  a  ticket,  when  he  was  only 
trying  to  get  to  his  show  on  time,  and  I'd 
never  hear  the  last  of  it.  To  prove  to  his 
wife  that  he  had  really  met  me,  I  had  to 
send  an  autographed  picture.  I  couldn't 
have  been  happier  to  comply  with  that 
request!" 

Gay  doesn't  mind  this  admiration  for 
her  husband.  She  doesn't  even  mind  when 
letters  come  in  from  women,  asking  if  he 
is  married,  and  saying  what  fine,  devoted 
wives  they  could  be  if  only  a  man  like 
Paul  would  look  their  way.  She  doesn't 
mind  the  fact  that  she  and  Dick  can't  walk 
into  a  store  or  a  restaurant  or  theater  any 
more,  without  her  husband  being  recog- 
nized and  asked  for  his  autograph.  Or  that 
they  have  to  keep  changing  their  tele- 
phone number  because  groups  of  kids  call 
up  just  to  hear  his  voice  on  the  phone. 

She  doesn't  even  mind  when  people  write 
to  ask  if  Paul  and  Vanessa — who  is  played 
by  Bonnie  Bartlett — are  married  in  real 
life,  as  Ihey  are  on  the  show.  She  knovvs 
this  only  proves  what  good  actors  they 
are.  However,  she  has  been  known  to 
tease  her  husband  by  complaining  that, 
when  the  script  calls  upon  him  to  kiss 
Van,  he  needn't  appear  to  enjoy  it  so 
much! 

Dick  himself  thinks  that  Gay  and  his  TV 
wife,  Vanessa,  are  alike  in  many  ways. 
In  their  love  of  children  and  their  pa- 
tience and  understanding  of  them.  In  the 
level-headed  way  they  both  meet  their 
problems,  and  the  courage  with  which 
they  face  any  crisis.  But  mostly  in  the  way 
Gay  always  helps  him  and  stands  beside 
him,  as  Van  helps  Paul. 

Undoubtedly,  among  aU  those  fans  in 
this  country  and  Honolulu  and  heaven 
knows  what  other  distant  shores,  there 
is  no  more  staunch  one  than  Gay.  She  and 
young  Rick  know  and  share  Richard 
Coogan 's  Love  Of  Life. 


Sliiny  New  Penny 


(Continued  from  page  24) 
anyone  but  a  girl  like  Rosemary.  She  has 
a  theory  that  a  woman— any  girl-child 
with  an  understanding  heart— can  project 
herself  into  almost  any  age.  She  believes 
that  all  women  retain  a  childlike  side  of 
their  nature  which  makes  it  easy  to  slip 
backward  in  time,  especially  back  to  their 
own    bittersweet   days    of   adolescence. 

This  ability  to  combine  mature  emo- 
tions with  childlike  moods  and  enthusi- 
asms makes  Rosemary  an  actress  inter- 
esting to  watch  and  a  girl  interesting  to 
know.  As  Mrs.  Michael  Thoma  (pro- 
nounced with  the  h  silent  and  the  o  long), 
she  is  the  wife  of  a  talented  actor-stage- 
manager,  currently  serving  in  the  latter 
capacity  for  the  Broadway  hit  play,  "No 
Time  for  Sergeants."  As  Rosemary  Thoma, 
she  is  also  the  brand-new  owner,  with 
Mike,  of  a  stunning  new  ranch  house  in 
Rockland  County,  about  35  miles  out  of 
New  York,  in  the  foothills  of  the  Ramapo 
Mountains.  As  Rosemary  Thoma,  she  is 
also  chief  cook  and  dishwasher.  She  also 
had  endless  lists  of  things  still  to  be  done 
and  people  to  be  seen  concerning  the 
house  they  have  just  had  built  by  Moireale 
Brothers,  Builders,  a  firm  which  has 
developed  much  property  in  the  Ramapo 
foothills. 

As  Rosemary  Prinz,  however,  the  girl 
who  is  Penny  Hughes  every  day  on  tele- 
vision, she  finds  herself  just  as  happily 
fittino  into  that  teen-age  framework,  emo- 
tionally and  physically.  She  flings  herself 
around  the  '?ets  with  the  abandonment  of 
a  high -school  girl.  She  curls  up  on  the 
floor  to  play  records,  or  talks  endlessly 
over  the  telephone  to  her  best  friend, 
Ellen  Lowell,  about  boys,  parties,  school, 
homework  and  the  difficulties  of  dealing 
with  parents.  She  makes  dates,  and  then 
agonizes  over  what  to  wear  and  what 
to  say.  In  fact  Rosemary  dresses  like 
Penny,  thinks  like  Penny,  is  Penny. 

"It's  a  wonderful  outlet  for  me,  this 
going  back,"  Rosemary  says.  "I'm  lucky. 
Other  women  may  vicariously  enjoy 
watching  their  own  daughters  grow  up,  or 
following  a  program  like  ours.  We  get 
many  letters  from  mature  people  who  tell 
how  much  they  enjoy  Ellen  and  me  and 
the  boys  in  the  show,  as  well  as  they  do 
the  more  adult  members  of  the  cast. 
After  all,  who  wants  to  be  entirely  grown- 
up every  minute  of  every  day?" 

It  could  be  argued  here  that  perhaps 
Rosemary  feels  so  strongly  about  this  be- 
cause she  began  to  grow  up  earlier  than 
most  girls,  when  at  sixteen  she  bought 
a  show-business  paper,  read  an  ad  in  it, 
and  applied  for  a  summer  stock  company 
job  at  Cragsmoor,  New  York. 

"My  parents  had  wanted  me,  their  only 
child,  to  go  to  college  first.  But  they 
listened  when  the  owner  and  director  of 
the  theater,  the  well-known  Morton  Da- 
Costa,  suggested  that  I  need  not  stagnate 
merely  because  my  formal  schooling  was 
interrupted.  He  told  me  that,  with  an  in- 
quisitive mind  and  a  reasonably  intelli- 
gent approach,  I  could  get  the  'schooling' 
I  needed  as  I  went  along.  It  must  have 
been  difficult  for  my  parents  to  give  up 
their  own  plans  for  me,  but  they  had  al- 
ways encouraged  me  in  whatever  I  want- 
ed to  do,  and  I  am  very  grateful." 

Those  who  watch  Rosemary  being 
Penny  Hughes  know  that  this  is  a  petite 
girl  who  has  to  stretch  just  a  bit  to  reach 
5'1"  and  weighs  a  mere  96  pounds.  One  of 
her  teachers  used  to  call  her  "the  girl 
with  the  golden  eyes."  There  seems  to  be 
no  better  phrase  to  describe  the  golden- 
brown  eyes  that  seem  to  light  up  as  she 
looks  at  you.  Her  hair  is  golden-blond  in 


the  highlights,  darker  in  the  shadows 
until  it  seems  almost  brown.  Her  nose  is 
small  and  cute,  her  mouth  full  and  pretty. 

Mike  Thoma,  to  whom  Rosemary  has 
been  married  since  1951,  when  he  was 
twenty-four,  is  a  tall  man — 5'11",  lean 
("the  kind  of  man  who  has  always  at- 
tracted me").  Sandy-haired,  but  balding 
since  he  was  twenty.  With  what  Rosemary 
calls,  "a  kind  of  humorous  nose,  as  if 
he  were  always  laughing  a  little  at  life, 
and  at  himself;  strictly  a  non-neurotic 
tjrpe.  I  think  maybe  it  was  his  sense  of 
balance  and  his  marvelous  sense  of  humor, 
along  with  his  gentleness  and  considera- 
tion, that  made  me  fall  in  love  with  him." 

They  met  on  the  stage  of  the  Grove 
Theater,  in  the  town  of  Nuangola,  Pa., 
where  Rosemary  was  a  member  of  the 
company  and  Mike  had  come  up  to  act  in 
one  specific  play.  It  was  on  the  open- 
ing night  of  the  play  before  the  one  in 
which  Mike  was  to  appear.  He  was  "cas- 
ing" the  theater  and  waiting  for  the  cur- 
tain to  go  up.  Rosemary,  the  perfectionist, 
had  come  out  on  the  empty  stage  to  check 
the  lights  before  fini.'shing  her  make-up. 

"I  had  only  the  plain  base  on  my  face, 
no  eye  or  mouth  make-up  at  all.  I 
looked  a  mess,  but  I  didn't  mind  meeting 
the  people  who  belonged  to  the  show. 
Then  I  saw  this  strange  young  man 
wandering  about  the  stage,  and  I  thought: 
What  an  idiot!  Doesn't  he  know  better 
than  to  hang  around  on  an  opening  night, 
twenty  minutes  before  curtain? 

"I  was  embarrassed,  of  course,  at  having 
a  stranger  see  me  as  I  looked  then.  Mike 
was  thinking  (he  told  me  this  later) :  What 
a  big  deal  she  must  think  she  is,  having 
to  check  the  lights  for  her  make-up.  Does 
she  think  she's  starring  on  Broadway?" 

1  hat's  the  way  it  was  between  them  at 
first — sort  of  an  unsooken  antagonism — 
until  the  opening  night  of  the  show  in 
which  they  appeared  together.  The  strain 
of  opening  night  over,  the  cast  went  to 
the  one  restaurant  that  stayed  open  late 
and  Rosemary  and  Mike  danced  to  the 
tunes  from  the  juke  box.  "I  think  we  both 
realized  we  were  beginning  to  fall  in 
love.  It  was  really  very  romantic.  The 
quiet  little  mountain  town.  The  moon- 
light. The  long  walks  we  took  in  the 
evenings  after  that.  The  knowing  finally 
that  one  day  we  would  be  married." 

They  were  married  on  June  10,  1951, 
the  summer  after  they  met,  in  the  Little 
Church  Around  the  Corner,  sometimes 
known  as  the  Actors'  Church. 

Rosemary  had  always  thought:  Why  all 
the  fuss  about  weddings?  But  her  mother 
was  sxire  her  daughter  would  like  to 
remember  a  real  wedding.  Mike  was  in- 
clined to  go  along  with  Mrs.  Prinz. 

And  Rosemary  admits  today,  "I  never 
thought  it  would  mean  so  much  to  me,  but 
when  the  time  came  I  felt  like  such  a 
bride.  All  dressed  up,  and  carrying  a 
bouquet.  Fluttery  and  nervous,  just  like 
brides  in  the  movies  and  television.  But 
when  the  actual  moment  came  to  walk 
up  the  aisle,  I  was  so  happy  that  I'm  sure 
I  was  smiling  every  step  of  the  way,  in- 
stead of  looking  properly  demure." 

When  Mike  and  Rosemary  moved  into 
their  first  home,  a  small  apartment,  they 
found  neither  was  too  proficient  about 
housekeeping.  Their  dining  table  came 
with  legs  separate,  to  be  screwed  into  the 
top,  and  they  had  to  call  Rosemary's 
mother  to  help  them  put  it  together.  They 
are  still  not  very  ardent  do-it-yourself- 
ers. Rosemary  was  already  something  of  a 
cook,  a  maker  of  zesty  sauces  and  barbe- 
cue triumphs,  and  a  good  baker.  Baking 
specialties  are  a  chocolate-chip  cake  (long 


Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 
New  Way  Without  Surgery 

Science  Find*  Healing  Substance  That 
Relieves  Pain — Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 

For  the  first  time  science  has  found  a 
new  healing  substance  with  the  astonishing 
ability  to  shrink  hemorrhoids  and  to  relieve 
pain  —  without  surgery. 

In  case  after  case,  while  gently  relieving 
pain,  actual  reduction  (shrinkage)  took 
place. 

Most  amazing  of  all  —  results  were  so 
thorough  that  sufferers  made  astonishing 
statements  like  "Piles  have  ceased  to  be  a 
problem!" 

The  secret  is  a  new  healing  substance 
(Bio-Dyne*)  — discovery  of  a  world-famous 
research  institute. 

This  substance  is  now  available  in  sup- 
pository or  ointment  form  under  the  name 
Preparation  H.*  Ask  for  it  at  all  drug  count- 
ers—money back  guarantee.    *Beg.  u.  s.  Pat.  Off. 

SEW     s'h-oVs 

^^^    at  home!  $40  week  possible. 
We  contact  stores  for  you." 
TINY-TOT    CO.,    Gallipolis    47,    Ohio 


^55^&CHILDS  Photo 


PUD  H  used  for  advertising  -  NG  DQUND  for  pliolos  of  infanis 
and  up  fo  18  yean  May  also  qualify  for  FREE  UMEM.  Send  OIK 
small  pliolo  lor  approval.  Prim  child's  and  mother's  name,  address 
on  back.  Returned  in  two  weelcs.  NO  OBUGtIION. 


IDVaiUBIS  PHOTOS  6000-HA  Sunsel,  Hollyv»ood  28.  Calif. 


MATERNITY 
STYLE  CATALOG 


SAVE  MONEY-Shop  by  Mail!  FREE  cata- 
log pictures  hundreds  of  exclusive  ma- 
ternity fashions.  World's  Largest.  Complete 
Selection,  Dresses,  Suits,  Mix  &  Match  Sep- 
arates, Sportswear,  Girdles.  Lingerie;  $2.98 
to  $22.98. CaMfo£7  mailed  in  plain  envelope. 

C  R  AWFO  RD'S  -■^^^^'■ 

Dept  35    8015WornaU,KansasCityl4,Mo     ^^1 

WIN  CONTEST  CASH 

You  can  win  BIG  CASH,  ears,  homes,  oil  wells,  $100.  a 
week  for  life.  You  can  be  free  of  money  worries.  "Contest 
Helps"  explains  everything.  Contains  winning  mtries, 
valuable  advice,  samples,  almost  writes  your  entry  for  you! 
Answering  this  ad  can  make  you  the  next  BIG  WINNER! 
This  ad  and  10^  brings  you  Contest  Helps  and  helpful 
bulletin  of  NEW  CASH  CONTESTS.  ACT  NOW. 

GAIN  PUBLISHING  CO.,  DEPT.  D 
T4T  West  17th  St..  New  York  11.  New  York 

ANY  PHOTO  ENLARGED 

Size  8  X  lO  Inches 


67- 


on  DOUBLE-WEIGHT  Paper 

Same  price  for  fnll  IsD^th  or  bnst 
form,  groups,  landscapes,  pet  aoi- 
mals.  etc.,  or  enlarsemeDts  of  an7 
part  of  a  irroap  picture.  Orisical  is 
returned  with  yoar  enlareement. 

SendNoMoney  Sfor^l^o 

Jast  mail  photo,  nefrative  or  Bcap- 
sbot  (aD7  size)  and  receive  yoar  enlargement. 
(ruaranteedfadeless.onbeaatifnl  double- weight 
portrait  quality  paper.  Pay  postman  67c  pins 
postage— or  send  69c  with  order  and  we  pay  post- 
age. Take  advantage  of  this  amazing  offer,  Sendyour  photos  today. 

Professional  Art  Studios,  544  S.  Main,  Dept  37-A,    Princeton,    llinols 


IT'S  GREAT  TO  CLEAR  YOUR  SKIN 

PSORIASIS 

-the  ugly  scaly  skin  trouble 


^^^4^DERMOIL 


Enjoy  the  thrill  of  a  smooth 
clear  skin!  DERMOIL 
formula  used  by  many  doctors.  Amazing 
results  reported  for  over  22  years!  No 
matter  how  long  you  have  suffered,  write 
for  Free  Book  on  Psoriasis  with  "Before 
and  After"  photos  of  results,  and 
SEND  10c  for  generous  trial  bottle. 
Satisfaction  in  2  weeks  or  mouey 
back.  Sold  by  all  Druggists.  

LAKE    LABORATORIES,   Dept.  2704 
Box  3925  Strathmoor  Station, Detroit  27rMicb. 


Sew/IOfivT 

TRIAL 

SIZE  . 


75 


Mike's  favorite),  a  lemon  cake,  and  a 
variety  of  fancy  split-layer  cakes. 

The  new  house  has  ein  all-electric  kit- 
chen with  oven  built  into  the  wall,  plus 
a  new  automatic  dishwasher.  It  also  has 
roaming  room  for  Grundoon,  their  jet  black 
cocker  spaniel.  Rosemary  tells  you  that 
these  are  the  three  main  reasons  they 
built  a  house,  but  you  suspect  that  the 
fact  she  has  never  before  lived  in  a  house, 
much  less  owned  one,  has  a  great  deal  to 
do  with  it.  Especially  when  she  tells  you 
what  a  wonderful  feeling  it  was  "to  go  out 
and  see  all  those  people  so  busy  building 
my  house." 

There  seemed  to  be  a  kind  of  destiny 
about  the  house,  from  the  first.  If  their 
Sunday  paper  had  been  delivered  as 
usual,  if  they  hadn't  slept  late  enough  to 
retrieve  the  competitive  Sunday  paper 
from  their  neighbor's  trash  after  it  had 
been  read  and  discarded,  they  might 
never  have  seen  the  advertisement.  Their 
usual  paper  didn't  carry  it.  But  having 
read  the  ad  they  decided  to  take  a  ride 
and  see  if  the  property  lived  up  to  the 
fancy  phrases  describing  it. 

When  they  walked  through  the  model 
home,  they  knew  this  was  no  lark.  They 
stared  up  at  the  mountains,  the  great  trees. 
Rosemary,  looking  at  the  woods  all  around, 
already  heard  fliem  ringing  with  the 
symphonic  music  she  loves  and  was 
brought  up  on.  Her  father,  Milton  Prinz, 
is  a  brilliant  concert  cellist  who  worked 
under  Toscanini  and  is  a  member  of  the 
Firestone  Symphony  Orchestra.  Rosemary 
studied  piano  and  voice,  but  chose  dra- 
matic  acting   as   her   career   instead. 

"I  knew  that,  at  last,  here  was  a  place 
where  I  could  turn  the  volume  full  and 
play  the  recordings  and  the  radio  as  they 
were  meant  to  be  played,  without  worry- 
ing about  annoying  the  neighbors.  I  stood 
in  the  big  living  room,  forty- two  feet 
long,  and  imagined  how  it  would  sound 
like  symphony  hall,  and  how  the  whole 
house  would  be  filled  with  music.  I  looked 
at  Mike,  and  knew  he  felt  the  same  way." 

Together  they  selected  everything,  from 
details  to  important  items.  "We  both  have 
to  live  in  the  house  and  should  feel 
equally  content  with  everything.  My 
father,  like  Mike,  has  definite  ideas  and 
my  mother  and  I  like  that.  I'm  not  used 
to  husbands  who  say,  'Whatever  you  want 
is  all  right  with  me,  dear,'  and  wives  who 
wonder  later  if  it  really  is." 

Their  white-roofed  ranch  house,  set  in 
an  acre  and  a  half  of  ground,  was  designed 
for  the  downhill  slope  it  occupies.  This 
means  it  has  two  stories  at  the  back,  the 
lower  one  being  a  huge  recreation  room 
leading  to  the  patio,  with  utility  room 
behind  the  recreation  room.  Materials  are 


white  brick,  dark  brown  shingles,  and 
mottled  beige-brown  wood  called  "pecky" 
cypress.  In  addition  to  the  big  living  room, 
there  is  a  dining  area,  the  big  kitchen, 
three  bedrooms  and  the  bathrooms. 

The  recreation  room  has  three  cypress 
walls  and  one  in  pale  pink  stucco,  with 
a  brown  and  white  spattered  asphalt  tile 
floor.  The  furnishings  throughout  the 
house  are  a  "kind  of  subdued  modem." 
What  Rosemary  means  by  this  is  con- 
temporary design,  but  with  extremely 
simple  lines  and  attractively  textured 
fabrics. 

For  a  girl  who  starts  rehearsing  in  a 
New  York  studio  at  7:30  each  morning, 
is  off  the  air  at  2:00  in  the  afternoon,  and 
then  rehearses  again  for  the  next  day's 
show  from  2:30  to  5:30,  commuting  from 
the  country  presents  a  problem.  It  has 
changed  their  lives  to  the  extent  that 
she  doesn't  cook  dinner  on  week  nights, 
but  usually  meets  Mike  at  a  restaurant 
in  town,  before  she  hurries  home  to  studj' 
her  script  for  the  next  day's  show. 

None  of  these  things  bother  young  Mrs. 
Thoma,  however.  She  is  used  to  work, 
struggled  a  long  time  to  make  her  way 
as  an  actress  before  the  jobs  began  to 
come  in  steadily  and  before  she  met  Mike. 
In  the  early  days  she  took  any  job  she 
could  get  between  theater  jobs.  She  sold 
pots  and  pans  from  door  to  door,  worked 
as  a  hat-check  girl,  as  an  alarmi  operator 
for  a  detective  association  (on  the  mid- 
night to  9:00  A.M.  shift  so  she  could 
make  the  rounds  for  theater  jobs  during 
the  day),  clerked  in  a  department  store. 

By  the  time  she  was  called  to  audition 
for  the  part  of  Penny  she  had  proved  her- 
self, of  course — had  been  in  many  of  the 
big  night  dramatic  shows  on  television,  a 
long  list  of  radio  plays,  four  short-lived 
Broadway  plays  and  had  loads  of  stock 
company  experience.  In  addition,  she  was 
then  playing  the  second  female  lead  in 
another  daytime  drama.  Because  of  this, 
she  didn't  push  too  hard  when  she  was 
called  to  read  for  Penny  by  the  program's 
director,  Ted  Corday. 

"I  didn't  count  too  much  on  getting  the 
part,  although  I  liked  it  so  much.  I  have 
learned  not  to  count  too  much  on  any- 
thing, but  to  take  everything  as  it  comes, 
a  day  at  a  time.  It  was  a  happy  surprise 
when  word  came  that  I  was  to  be  Penny, 
particularly  because  my  other  show  went 
off  the  air  at  about  that  time.  Immediately 
I  started  to  let  my  hair  grow,  like  Penny's. 
I  took  a  short  rest,  and  baked  cake  every 
day.  My  husband  had  more  cake  than  he 
could  possibly  eat!" 

As  tJie  months  have  gone  by,  Rosemary 
and  Penny  have  now  become  more  and 
more   identified   with   each   other.    She   is 


such  an  interesting  teenager.  Special  in 
the  way  that  every  human  being  is 
special.  Typical  in  the  way  her  problems 
are  similar  to  the  problems  of  other  girls 
in  her  age  group.  Sometimes  she  is  the 
sweet,  starry-eyed  young  girl  having  her 
first  dates,  her  first  loves.  Sometimes  she's 
still  the  child  who  flops  into  a  chair  and 
never,  never  really  sits  in  one,  and  talks 
incessantly  on  the  telephone  to  her  bosom 
friends.  The  hostile  girl,  at  times,  who 
fights  with  her  brother  or  with  a  boy 
friend,  just  to  let  off  steam.  The  rebel- 
lious daughter  who  believes  that  her  dead 
sister,  Susan,  is  still  her  mother's  favorite. 
Penny  dramatizes  every  situation,  and 
most  of  all,  dramatizes  herself. 

"We  have  a  real  wonderful  crowd  on 
our  show,  from  Charlie  Fisher,  the  pro- 
ducer, right  on  down.  The  cast,  the  crew, 
everyone.  Wendy  Drew,  who  plays  my 
best  friend,  Ellen  Lowell,  is  a  good  friend 
of  mine.  We  both  find  ourselves  dress- 
ing more  like  teenagers  than  we  did.  In 
particular,  I  find  myself  going  around  the 
house  without  make-up,  wearing  shorts 
or  jeans  or  slacks  with  shirts  and  sweat- 
ers, not  fussing  too  much  with  my  hair. 
Of  course,  some  days  when  I'm  out  I  get 
very  grand,  as  Penny  would  like  to  do — 
and  I  put  on  a  sheath  dress  and  long, 
dangling  earrings.  I  like  red,  wear  it  a 
lot.  If  not  red,  usually  some  shade  of  blue. 
I  like  to  keep  everything  bright  and  cheer- 
ful, don't  go  much  for  dull  colors." 

Keeping  everything  bright  and  cheerful 
and  sunny  is  a  job  she  likes,  and  works  at. 
"Some  people  believe  that  the  late  teens 
or  even  twenty  is  too  young  for  mar- 
riage, because  those  next  five  years  are 
ones  in  which  you  may  change  a  great 
deal.  They  are  right  in  some  ways — you  do 
change.  The  wonderful  part  about  my  life 
is  that  Mike  and  I  have  changed,  together. 
We  have  both  grown  and  matured,  to- 
gether and  not  apart. 

"We  are  fortunate  in  being  interested 
in  the  same  things,  in  the  same  kind  of 
work,  in  the  same  kind  of  life.  We  want 
to  have  a  family  some  day.  We  love  our 
home.  We  have  television  in  our  lives, 
through  my  work,  and  the  theater,  through 
Mike's.  He  hasn't  given  up  acting  entirely, 
or  TV  either,  because  he  had  a  year  with 
a  small  TV  station  and  knows  every 
facet  of  the  business.  I  haven't  given  up 
theater,  although  I  would  always  want  to 
combine   it  with   television   now. 

"Being  17-year-old  Penny  Hughes  is  a 
wonderful  experience  for  me.  I  love  it. 
As  Rosemary  Prinz,  however,  I  am  glad 
I  was  lucky  enough  to  meet  Michael  Thoma 
and  marry  him  and  already  have  five  and  M 
a  half  years  as  Mrs.  Thoma.  I  hope  Penny  ■ 
wiU  be  as  fortunate." 


(Continued  from  page  44) 
Most  often  you'll  see  her  in  sport  clothes. 
No  jewelry.  No  make-up,  except  for  lip- 
stick. And  most  often,  she  and  husband 
Mort  Lindsey  are  at  home  in  Nutley,  New 
Jersey,  where  they  live  in  a  75-year-old 
house  that  Judy  describes  as  "early  crack- 
er-box." They  have  a  baby,  Steven,  bom 
last  May,  who  has  two  front  teeth;  a 
daughter,  Bonnie,  who  looks  exactly  like 
the  story-book  Alice  in  Wonderland;  an 
aristocratic  French  poodle  named  Dennis, 
an  alley  cat  named  Geneva — and  squirrels. 
"We  both  love  animals,"  says  '"vband 
Mort,  "but  Judy  is  truly  soft-hearted.  We 
had  a  horrible  nest  of  squirrels.  We  still 
^  have  them.  They  get  into  the  attic  and  cel- 
"  lar  and  they  dirty  up  things.  They  even 
throw  nuts  at  us  when  we  dare  to  eat  in 
our  own  back  yard.  So  I  wanted  to  get  rid 
76 


A  Song  for  Robert  Q. 

of  them.  Judy  said,  'No.'  So  we  didn't.  But 
the  pay-oflE  was  when  one  got  sick.  Judy 
called  in  a  vet." 

Mort  Lindsey,  recording  artist  and  musi- 
cal director,  is  a  tall,  good-looking  man. 
He  and  Judy  met  when  she  was  singing  on 
the  Fred  Allen  Show.  They  were  both  at 
rehearsal  early.  Judy  recalls,  "We  met  be- 
cause of  my  bad  memory.  I  saw  Mort  and 
thought  he  was  one  of  the  Skylarks,  whom 
I  should  have  known.  When  he  sat  down 
to  say  hello,  I  learned  that  I  was  wrong, 
but  was  attracted.  He's  my  kind  of  man." 

And  what  kind  of  gal  is  Judy?  She  is 
shy.  So  shy  that  she  says,  "I  love  people 
but  it's  hard  for  me  to  go  out  alone.  I've 
got  to  have  Mort  with  me  even  when 
visiting  friends.  And,  even  so,  before  I  go 
to  a  party  I  think,  'If  they  ask  me  to  stand 
up   and   sins   I'll    fall   through   the   floor.' " 


This  comes  from  a  gal  who  has  sung  with  a 
big-name   bands,   in   musical   comedy   and  fl 
on  top-rated  TV  and  radio  shows.  This  is 
one  side  of  her.  To  old  friends,  to  other 
members    of    the    Robert    Q.    cast,    she    is  j  ] 
known  to  be  unpretentious  and  real,  de-  I 
lightful  and  vivacious.  « 

Julann  Wright,  another  member  of  Rob- 
ert Q's  show,  explains,  "You  can  sit  down  j 
and  talk  clothes  and  food  with  any  wom- 
an, but  you  hold  back  a  little.  You  keep 
up  your  reserve.  With  Judy  it's  different. 
You  instinctively  know  that  Judy  wants 
whatever  is  best  for  you."  Judy  is  well- 
equipped  to  be  understanding.  Although  in 
her  mid-twenties,  she  has  already  lived  a 
couple  of  lives  and  exhausted  a  couple  of 
careers.  At  12,  she  was  singing  with  bands 
throughout  Virginia.  At  14,  she  was  feat- 
ured singer  with  Les  Brown's  famed  band. 


At  19,  she  was  a  has-been,  or  so  she 
thought.  She  notes,  "As  far  back  as  I  can 
remember,  I've  always  wanted  to  be  in 
show  business." 

She  was  born  Betty  Bonney  in  Norfolk, 
Virginia.  She  had  a  father,  mother,  older 
brother,  grandmother  and  a  dog  named 
Fluff.  "I've  always  had  pets  and  somehow 
I've  always  been  good  for  them.  Fluff  lived 
to  be  eighteen."  Her  parents  and  brother 
are  alive.  Not  her  grandmother.  "Grand- 
mother was  quite  a  gal.  Filled  me  fuU 
of  old  wives'  tales  and  superstitions.  Like, 
'Fine  feathers  make  a  fine  dress.'  Or  if  a 
mirror  broke,  she  predicted  seven  years 
of  gloom.  If  I  were  wearing  yellow,  she'd 
call  out,  'Yellow,  yellow,  catch  a  fellow.'" 
But  no  one  in  the  family,  including  grand- 
ma, was  in  show  business  or  did  much 
more  to  music  than  snap  their  fingers.  Her 
father  worked  for  the  Seaboard  Railroad, 
yet  he  was  largely  instrumental  in  seeing 
that  she  got  a  start. 

At  the  age  of  three,  Judy  made  her  first 
bow  to  the  public.  The  little  girl  next  door 
was  giving  a  piano  recital  and  chose  to 
have  Judy  sing  while  she  played  accom- 
paniment. Judy's  parents  were  at  the  re- 
cital, and  were  so  impressed  by  their 
daughter  that,  from  that  day  on,  her  father 
enrolled  her  in  singing  and  dancing  classes. 
At  the  age  of  nine,  Judy  had  her  own 
weekly  radio  program.  When  she  was  ten, 
her  father  walked  her  down  to  a  six-pole 
tent  show,  headed  by  Gene  Austen.  He  got 
her  an  audition.  The  summer  she  was  11, 
Austen  remembered  Judy  and  sent  for  her 
when  his  singer  became  ill.  Judy,  chap- 
eroned by  her  mother,  toured  the  summer 
circuit.  At  12,  she  was  singing  with  a  col- 
lege band. 

"I  was  big  for  my  age,"  she  says.  "When 
I  was  twelve,  I  passed  for  eighteen.  And 
it  wasn't  a  question  of  my  parents  push- 
ing me.  I  loved  what  I  was  doing.  By  the 
time  I  was  thirteen  I  had  the  works— all 
kinds  of  auditions  and  tests." 

It  was  in  Cincinnati  that  she  and  her 
mother  were  broke  and  stranded  for  the 
first  time.  A  small-name  band  she  was 
singing  with  was  dissolved  by  the  draft. 
Judy  went  over  to  Station  WLW  to  audition 
and  got  a  singing  job  with  Jimmy  James 
and  his  band. 

She  was  fourteen  when  she  joined  Les 
Brown  for  two  years.  Next  came  short 
singing  stints  with  Jan  Savitt  and  Frankie 
Carle.  At  sixteen,  she  married  a  musician. 
The  marriage  was  unsuccessful,  and  when 
it  broke  up  Judy's  mother  rejoined  her  to 
help  care  for  baby  Bonnie. 

"It  was  about  then  that  I  saw  my  first 
musical,"  she  recalls.  "As  often  as  I'd  been 
in  and  out  of  New  York,  I'd  never  had 
time  to  see  a  show.  Then  I  saw  'Oklahoma,' 
and  I  decided,  'This  is  for  me.' " 

For  two  years,  she  confined  herself  to 
Manhattan,  studying  voice,  acting  and 
auditioning  for  shows.  She  woimd  up  with 
the  lead  in  the  national  company  of  "High 
Button  Shoes."  When  the  tour  was  over, 
she  got  a  call  from  her  agent  to  go  down 
and  see  Sammy  Kaye  about  a  job. 

It  was  Kaye  who  changed  her  name 
from  Betty  Bonney  to  Judy  Johnson.  And 
about  that  time  her  parents  had  moved 
permanently  up  from  Virginia  into  a  house 
m  Nutley,  New  Jersey,  to  be  with  Judy 
fia  Bonnie.  It  was  a  good  arrangement 
for  Judy  to  know  Bonnie  was  being  cared 
for  by  her  mother  but  it  didn't  really  ease 
the  hurt  of  being  away  from  her  child. 
And  then,  when  Judy  was  singing  at  the 
Waldorf  with  Sammy,  an  agent  from  the 
Wilham  Morris  Agency  saw  her  and  in- 
sisted   they   could   do   something   for   her. 

For  Judy  it  was  a  round  of  auditions 
again.  Her  big  break  came  when  she  met 
producer  Max  Liebman,  who  was  then 
putting  together  the  famous  Saturday 
Night  Show  Of  Shows. 


"I'll^^  never  forget  that  audition,"  she 
says.  "The  room  was  maybe  as  big  as  a 
coffee  table.  I  did  fifteen  numbers  for  him 
and  he  didn't  even  smile.  I  was  sure  this 
man  hated  me." 

But  this  man  didn't.  He  hired  Judy.  For 
three  and  a  half  years  she  sang  and  danced 
on  the  nation's  first  great  TV  program.  She 
remembers,  "We  got  to  work  every  week- 
day at  ten  and  put  in  a  full  day  rehearsing. 
It  was  wonderful  experience,  and  the  spirit 
on  the  show  was  so  great." 

When  the  program  went  off,  Judy  worked 
with  Red  Buttons,  Fred  Allen  and,  since 
October  of  1955,  she  has  been  with  Robert 
Q.  Lewis.  It  was  on  the  Allen  show  that  she 
met  Mort.  Mort  was  there  to  substitute  on 
piano  for  a  very  good  friend,  recording 
star  Dick  Hyman.  Mort  was  no  stranger 
to  a  TV  studio.  The  possessor  of  a  couple 
of  musical  degrees  from  Columbia  Uni- 
versity, Mort  had  worked  as  staff  pianist 
for  NBC,  then  as  musical  director  at 
WCBS-TV.  He  played  with  many  studio 
bands  including  Milton  DeLugg's  on 
Open  House.  The  year  he  met  Judy  he  was 
doing  fourteen  shows  a  week.  He  was  even 
a  deejay  on  the  ABC  network,  as  The  Boy 
Next  Door  to   Martin   Block. 

"I  knew  I  was  going  to  marry  Mort  that 
very  first  summer,  and  I'll  tell  you  why," 
Judy  says.  "I  was  going  to  Texas  to  play  a 
club  date,  and  Mort  helped  me  work  on 
the  act.  Then  he  gave  me  his  own  material. 
Of  course,  when  another  entertainer  gives 
you  his  own  material,  you  know  it's  love." 
When  she  got  back  from  Texas,  friends 
in  Nutley  told  her  of  a  house  for  sale. 
Mort  bought  it  before  they  were  married. 
It  was  the  "haunted  house"  in  the  neigh- 
borhood. The  windows  were  thick  with 
dust.  There  was  an  authentic  creak  in  the 
floors  and  a  genuine  oatter  in  the  attic 
(squirrels).  Well,  the  windows  were 
washed  and  beige  carpeting  put  to  the 
floors,  while  an  attempt  was  made  to  chase 
the  squirrels  back  to  their  trees.  The  trees 
are  magnificient,  huge  oak  and  horse  chest- 
nuts. The  house  itself  is  painted  white 
with  yellow  trimmings.  Today,  it  is  a 
cheerful,  pleasant  home,  outside  or  in. 

Uoth  Mort  and  Judy  have  a  taste  for 
authentic  antique  furniture.  Most  of  it  is 
early  American.  The  exception  is  the  liv- 
ing room.  The  chairs  and  sofa  are  Louis 
IV,  of  green  velvet  and  antique-white 
wood.  Cocoa  drapes  hang  from  the  win- 
dow, and  in  the  corner  sits  a  handsome 
grand  piano  Mort  has  had  since  age  ten. 

Right  off  the  living  room  is  the  television 
room,  and  here  the  Americana  is  ram- 
pant, with  dry  sinks,  a  great-great-grand- 
father clock,  and  a  cobbler's  bench.  The 
dining  room  is  next,  and  is  glassed  on  two 
sides  facing  the  yard.  Above  the  table 
hangs  a  real  kerosene  chandelier.  To  the 
side  is  a  big  kitchen  and,  qs  often  as  not, 
the  family  eats  there  off  a  hutch  table. 

Their  bedroom  has  a  handsome  early 
American -styled  bed,  covered  with  a  white 
nylon  spread  and  canopy.  "I  always  wanted 
a  canopy  bed,"  Judy  says.  "It's  a  wonder- 
ful feeling  to  look  up  and  see  that  white 
sheath  over  you." 

The  nursery  is  across  the  hall  from  the 
master  bedroom.  It  is  a  conspicuously 
cheerful  blue.  The  delightful  floral  deco- 
rations on  the  baby's  chest  were  painted 
by  Bonnie.  Bonnie's  own  room  is  next  door. 
She  has  a  huge  map  on  the  wall  that  she 
requested  for  her  birthday,  so  that  she 
can  locate  daddy  when  he's  on  the  road. 
ITiere  are  ballet  pictures  to  inspire  Bon- 
nie in  her  dance  study  and,  on  one  shelf, 
there  is  an  autographed  picture  of  Pat 
Boone.  This  was  a  personal  gift  from  Pat. 

Mort  has  been  Pat's  musical  director 
on  the  road  during  the  past  year.  A  couple 
of  times  luck  had  it  that  Pat  and  Mort 
worked  the  same  oity  as  Judy.  Once,  when 
Pat   was   singing   at   Atlantic   City's   Steel 


m  ^    w    w  'w    w 

I       Can't  Get  Rid  of 
I^Dark  or  Discolored  Skin, 
freckles,  Skin  Spots?' 


HERE'S  HELP!  Mercolized  Wax  Cream 
7  NIGHT  PLAN  Lightens. 
Beautifies  Skin  WhileYou  Sleep 

Just  follow  the  famous  Mercolized  Wax 
Cream  7  Night  Plan  to  a  whiter,  smoother, 
lovelier  skin.  Smooth  rich,  luxurious  Mer- 
colized Wax  Cream  on  your  face  or  arms 
just  before  retiring  each  night  for  one  week, 

You'll  begin  to  see  results  almost 

at  once  .  .  ,  lightens  dark  skin, 
blotches,  spots,  freckles  as  if  by 
magic!  This  is  not  a  cover  up  cos- 
metic; Mercolized  Wax  Cream 
works  UNDER  the  skin  Surface. 
Beautiful  women  have  used  thiB 
time-tested  plan  for  over  40  years— you'll 
love  it's  fast,  sure,  longer  lasting  resultsi 
Mercolized  Wax  Cream  is  sold  on  100%  guar- 
antee or  money  back.    Start  using  it  now! 

MERCOLIZED  WAX  CREAM 

At  All  Drug  and  Cosmetic  Counters 


Uetilans  dark 
iktnanduely 
spots  almost 
oiirnlgtit. 


''How  to  Make  Money  with 
^-:^   Simple  Cartoons'' 


^     A  book  (veryone  who  llk«s 
ihoild  have.  It  Is  free;  no 
obligation.  Simply  address 


s  to  draw  I 

FREE         J 
BOOK       f 


ARTOONISTS'  EXCHANGE 
Dept.  591  Pleasant  Hill,  Ohio 


The  Southern  Way  Is  The  EASY  Way  for  You  To  Make 

f50,.«250 


treeliw 
<«»rt««if  I 


-^^^      Amazingr  money-maker  pays  yoa  a  fall  I 
50ccash  profit  on  everyeasyorderlBoxof  21  new,  / 
different  greetings  for  all  events  sells  on  sight  / 
at$l.  Exquisite  new  Southern  Belle  Favorite  $1  I     — : 
All-Occasion  Assortment,  Gift  Items, manymorefast-       — 
sellers.  No  experience  needed.  Get  samples  "n  FREE  TRIAL. 

SOUTHERN  GREETINGS, 478  N.Hollywood,DeptS-31,Meniphls12.Tenn. 

SWARoTOS 

Everybody's  doing  it! 

Beautiful  portrait-quality 

photos  made  from  your 

favorite  snapshot  or  portrait! 

For  Super-Speed  service, 

send  25c  extra 

Send  picture  and  money  to: 

WALLET  PHOTOS.  Hillside,  N.J.  Bo<  Q-5 


we  pay  postage 


MONEY  B«CK    GUARANTEE 


LEG   SUFFERERS 


FREE 
BOOKLET 


^V  ■  /  ■  ^^'^  continue  to  suffer  without  attempt- 
^m  /  H  Ing  to  do  something?  Write  today  for  New 
^M  i  S  Booklet — "THE  LIEPE  METHODS  FOR 
^m  m  ■  HOME  USE."  It  tells  about  Varicose 
^V  ^L  H  tJlcers  and  Open  Leg  Sores.  Llepe  Methods 
^B^^^^^B  used  whiU  you  walk.  More  than  60  years  of 
IHM^^H     success.  Praised  and  en-| 

dorsed  by  multitudes. 
LIEPE  METHODS,  3250  N.  Green  Bay  Ave... 
Dept.  A-   :>     Milwaukee   12,  Wisconsinl 


KILLTHE  HAIR  ROOT 


Destroy  unwanted  hair  PERMANENTLY.  Um  < 
'enrently  at  home.  When  you  have  read  e 
istruction  book  corafully  and  learned  to  use  J 

i  new  Mahler  Epilalor  safcry  and  efficiently, 

n  you  can  remove  unwonted  hoir  FOREVER. 

MONEY-BACK  GUARANTEE  (Our  76lh  Year). 


Send  S'^TODAY  for  booklet  t/^^H 


MAHLERS.  INC      DepL  607-A        PROVIDENCE  15,  R.  I 


GOODY,  GOODY,  DADDY'S  HOME 
. . .  even  after  a  tough  day  at  work 

Bread-winning  worries  sometimes 
leave  you  less-than-fun-to-be-with 
when  you  get  home.  No  wonder 
you  feel  impatient  and  restless. 
That's  when  Miles  NERVINE 
can  be  such  a  help.  You  don't  want 
something  to  make  you  Ustless. 
You  want  Miles  NERVINE— it 
simply  relaxes  you,  soothes  your 
nerves,  helps  you  keep  good-na- 
tured. Follow  the  label,  avoid  ex- 
cessive use.  Buy  Miles  NERVINE 
— effervescent  tablets  or  liquid — 
at  your  drugstore. 


77 


Pier,  Judy  was  working  across  the  board- 
walk at  Haddon  Hall.  For  Bonnie,  the 
highlight  of  that  date  was  sitting  at  a 
table  with  Mort  and  Pat  while  Judy  sang. 

Mort  is  an  outstanding  musician.  Proof 
of  this  is  in  his  recent  album  for  Dot 
Records,  "The  Organ  and  Mort  Lindsey." 
In  this  hi-fi  collection,  he  runs  the  gamut 
from  sweet  to  swing,  and  plays  both  Glenn 
Miller  style  and  rock  'n'  roll.  He  gets 
sounds  out  of  the  organ  that  no  one  ever 
knew  were  there. 

"Mort's  wonderful,"  Judy  says,  "and  it's 
lucky  for  me  that  he  loves  show  business. 
That's  why  he  xinderstands  me  so  well, 
for  I'm  nuts  about  the  business.  Besides, 
he's   so   wholesome." 

She  gives  Mort  credit,  too,  for  getting 
her  out  to  auditions.  Judy's  big  ambition 
is  still  for  musical  comedy  but,  being  shy, 
she  doesn't  push  herself.  Besides  the 
femme  lead  in  the  national  company  of 
"High  Button  Shoes,"  she  had  the  starring 
role  in  New  York  City  Center's  produc- 
tion of  "Guys  and  Dolls." 

"I  feel  as  if  I've  tried  out  for  150  shows," 
she  says.  Adds  Mort,  "She's  the  only  gal 
who  gets  applause  wherever  she  auditions." 

When  Judy  auditioned  for  Robert  Q., 
she  didn't  know  it,  but  she  was  in  a  "deli- 
cate condition."  It  was  just  as  well  that 
she  didn't  know,  for  Bob's  show  had  be- 
come a  kind  of  steady  target  for  the  stork. 
Bob  lost  the  services  of  Betty  Clooney  when 
she  got  pregnant.  The  Chordettes  took  a 


leave  when  one  of  them  went  off  to  the 
maternity  ward.  Lois  Hunt  excused  her- 
self to  come  up  with  an  heir.  And,  at  this 
point,  Bob  was  at  wit's  end.  He  had  au- 
ditioned quite  a  few  girls,  and  couldn't 
find  one  he  liked.  Then  Judy  sang  for  him. 
He  was  in  the  control  booth.  After  the 
audition,  Judy's  agent  came  running  out 
to  say,  "You're  it,  Judy.  Bob  thinks  you're 
great.  Just  don't  get  pregnant."  That  was 
in  September.  She  started  with  Bob  in 
October  and,  in  November,  learned  from 
the  doctor  that  she  was  pregnant. 

"Oh,  I  felt  awful.  Not  about  the  baby 
but  about  Bob.  How  was  I  going  to  tell 
him?  I  thought  he'd  hate  me.  Six  or  seven 
times  I  walked  up  to  his  office.  I'd  get  as 
far  as  the  door  and  turn  back.  I'd  come 
home  and  Mort  would  ask,  'Did  you  tell 
him?'  Finally,  I  told  Bob  and  he  didn't 
flip  his  lid  at  all.  Matter  of  fact,  he  was 
very  nice  about  it  and  told  me  that  he 
wanted  me  to  work  as  long  as  I  could." 

That  was  on  TV,  and  as  the  months 
slipped  by,  the  camera  just  moved  higher. 
Finally,  just  before  Judy  went  to  the 
hospital,  you  weren't  seeing  much  more 
of  her  than  her  shoulders  and  face.  This 
was  a  switch,  for  usually  Judy's  trim  fig- 
ure fits  easily  into  camera  range. 

Mort  notes,  "Judy's  waistline  is  about 
twenty-one  but  she's  never  satisfied.  If 
she's  115,  she  wants  to  weigh  109.  If  she's 
109,  she  wants  to  weigh  103.  When  Judy 
is    'overweight'    she's   practically    skinny." 


"It's  not  my  weight  so  much  as  my  ap- 
petite that  scares  me,"  she  explains.  "I  love 
to  eat.  The  other  night,  we  were  out  with 
Pat  and  Shirley  Boone  for  dinner,  and  I 
suddenly  realized  that  I'd  eaten  more  than 
anyone  else  at  the  table." 

When  Judy  wants  to  drop  some  pounds, 
she  stops  eating  for  two  or  three  days  at 
a  time.  "I've  tried  other  plans.  Once  some- 
one told  me  that  a  full  breakfast  would 
help  me  to  cut  down  on  the  day's  eating. 
Well,  I  had  a  big  breakfast,  but  it  made 
me  even  hungrier  at  lunch  time,  and  by 
dinner  I  was  eating  like  Henry  VIII!" 

She  likes  to  cook  and  bake,  and  makes 
fine  fruit  pies  and  good  cakes.  Her  favorite 
dishes  are  spaghetti  and  chili  con  came. 
When  Mort  is  out  of  town  and  she's  cook- 
ing for  herself,  her  favorite  item,  un- 
fortunately, is  a  starch,  like  noodles  with 
butter  and  salt.  But  Judy  does  other 
things  besides  eat  when  Mort's  away.  When 
he  was  out  of  town  for  sixteen  days,  she 
scrubbed  down  the  sides  of  the  house. 
The  time  before  that,  she  retouched  some 
furniture.  She's  an  industrious  housewife 
who  always  finds  something  that  requires 
her  immediate  attention.  Like  getting  Bon- 
nie fitted  for  new  shoes  ...  or  bathing  the 
poodle  ...  or  just  helping  the  baby  get  up 
a  burp — until  5:30  P.M.  when  she  drives 
into  Manhattan  to  become  Judy  Johnson. 
But  at  9:30,  she's  home  again  and  again 
Mrs.  Lindsey,  housewife  and  mother.  This 
she  finds  the  most  satisfying  career  of  all. 


(Continued  from  page  32) 
and  Radio  shows,  he  has  become  the 
favorite  of  millions.  He  is  one  of  the 
singers  most  in  demand  at  theaters  from 
coast  to  coast.  He  has  turned  down 
offers  from  three  of  the  major  studios  in 
Hollywood.  And  from  the  fans  who  sur- 
round him,  sighing,  screaming,  scrambling 
(and  occasionally  fainting)  whenever 
and  wherever  he  appears,  he  gets  the 
"Swoon  for  Boone"  reaction. 

What  is  the  reaction  of  young  Charles 
Eugene  Boone,  commonly  known  as  Pat, 
to  this  excitement?  He  can't  believe  this 
can  be  happening  to  him,  while  still  real- 
izing that  it  is. 

"I'm  still  asking  myself,  'why  me?' "  he 
says.  "The  wonder  grows.  I  can't 
imagine  myself  as  a  big  singer.  I  know 
it's  happened,  is  happening,  but  it  seems 
to  me  to  be  happening  to  another  person. 
"Even  when,  as  a  kid,  I  was  singing  in 
school  and  in  church  and,  later,  in  the 
local  movie  theater  back  home  in  Nash- 
ville, I  just  knew  I  wouldn't  be  a  singer. 
Not  a  big  pro  singer,  that  is — didn't  look 
like  one. 

"Now,  when  I'm  on  stage  and  getting  a 
good  reaction  from  an  audience,  people 
screaming  and  all,  and  when  the  fans 
write  and  tell  me  how  I  look  to  them  on 
TV — well,  when  I  look  in  a  mirror  I  don't 
see  the  fellow  they  see.  He  isn't  in 
there." 

When  he  looks  in  a  mirror  what  Pat 
sees — and  mirrors  do  not  lie — is  a  young 
man  six  feet  tall.  Slender,  but  athletic, 
build.  Brown,  singularly  clear  and  candid 
brown  eyes.  Dark  hair,  well  cut.  Tanned, 
smooth  skin.  Good  nose.  Sensitive 
mouth.  Fine  teeth.  And  what,  if  not 
exactly  so,  is  a  singer  supposed  to  look 
like? 

"My    futiu-e?     Circumstantial    evidence 
to  the  contrary,  I  feel  that  I'm  still  on  sort 
'    of   shaky   ground.     Tell   you   a   secret:    I 
*    don't  think  I  have  any  great  talent.    Lots 
'    of  fellows   sing  better  than   I  do.      They 
just   haven't   gotten   hold    of   good   com- 
mercial songs,  as  I've  been  lucky  enough 
78 


They  Swoon  for  Boone 

to  do.  They  haven't  met  the  right  people, 
as  I've  been  fortunate  enough  to  do. 
Take  Mr.  Godfrey  for  one.  One  of  my 
first  big  breaks  was  on  his  Talent  Scouts 
show.  And  now,  what  do  you  know,  he 
lets  me  sing  my  records  on  his  shows. 
And  there's  Randy  Wood,  head  man  of 
Dot  Records.  And  Hugh  Cherry,  a  disc 
jockey  in  Nashville,  who  took  an  interest 
in  me,  and  introduced  me  to  Randy  Wood. 
And  Bill  Randall,  a  disc  jockey  in  Cleve- 
land, one  of  the  biggest  disc  jockeys  in 
the  country,  who  had  me  on  his  show 
right  after  I  made  my  very  first  record. 
And  my  lifelong  friend  and  high-school 
principal.  Mack  Craig,  who  got  me  my 
first  radio  job.  Mack  Craig,  during  the 
high-school  years  when  I  was  trying  to 
set  the  pattern  of  my  life,  gave  me  the 
right  slant  I  hope  I  have.  And  Dean 
Hacker  of  Columbia  University,  where 
I'm  now  a  senior.  I'm  working  hard  to 
maintain  my  straight-A  average,  shooting 
for  Phi  Beta  Kappa.  Dean  Hacker  is  so 
helpful  to  me,  so  understanding  of  the 
work  I  do,  that  he  has  helped  me  set  up 
a  schedule  that  will  allow  me  the  most 
freedom  possible. 

"It's  pure  luck,"  Pat  said,  "that  I'm 
not  travelling  around,  as  a  lot  of  fellows 
are,  singing  in  little  bars  and  lounges. 
Most  of  them  have  no  family  life.  They're 
good  singers,  many  of  them,  whose  luck 
has  run  out.  Their  real  tragedy  is  that 
they  didn't  prepare  themselves  for  any- 
thing but  singing.  That's  why  I'm  pre- 
paring for  a  teaching  career,  not  counting 
on  being  a  singer  always.  Dangerous  to 
count  on  it — my  luck  may  run  out." 

But  if  Pat's  reaction  to  success  is 
modest  to  an  unbelievable  degree,  his 
concept  of  the  kind  of  performer  he  means 
to  be  is  clean-cut  and  crystal-clear. 

"I  read  somewhere,"  Pat  says,  "that 
Elvis  and  I  are  'mighty  battlers  for  the 
rock  'n'  roll  crown.'  This  isn't  so.  My 
first  record  was  rock  'n'  roll.  Other 
records,  too.  Some  of  the  nimibers  I  sing 
on  Mr.  Godfrey's  shows  are  rock  'n'  roll. 
Since  rock  'n'  roll  is  aS  old  as  the  blues. 


it's  safe  to  say  it's  here  to  stay.  I'll  stay 
with  it,  but  I  definitely  do  not  want  to 
be  known  as  a  strictly  rock  'n'  roll  singer. 
I  want  to  be  known  as  a  singer  of  ballads, 
of  rhythm  tunes,  of  novelties.  I  want  to 
be  known  as  a  fellow  that  can  sing  songs. 

"The  only  kind  of  song  I  will  not  sing, 
whether  rock  'n'  roll  or  any  other,  is  a 
song  that  has  suggestive  lyrics.  'Dance 
Witifci  Me  Henry,'  for  instance  (the  orig- 
inal title  was  'Roll  With  Me,  Henry')  was 
submitted  to  us  at  Dot  Records.  But  al- 
though we  knew  it  would  be  a  big  popular 
hit,  it  soiuided  pretty  suggestive  and  we 
wouldn't  record  it.  By  the  time  Georgia 
Gibbs  introduced  the  tune,  the  lyrics  had 
been  cleaned  up,  the  title  changed. 

"I  don't  feel  an  entertainer  has  the 
right  to  do  just  anything  to  excite  an 
audience.  If  you're  not  on  stage,  it  might 
be  fun  to  do  a  lot  of  foot-loose  and  fancy- 
free  things.  But  a  performer  on  stage 
must  make  sure  his  influence  is  a  good 
one,  especially  when  teenagers  look  up 
to  you,  pattern  themselves  on  you.  I  get 
a  lot  of  letters  from  mothers  of  teenagers 
about  how  their  kids  had  disappointed 
them  by  refusing  to  go  to  college.  When 
they  find  out  I  am  in  college,  they  change 
their  minds  and  decide  to  go.  That's  the 
kind  of  influence  I  want  to  have.  Any 
example  I  set  will  be  a  good  one." 

Like  Perry  Como,  whom  he  so  admires, 
young  Boone  lives  a  good  life,  is  a  good 
family  man,  deeply  religious,  well-liked. 
And  Pat  is  as  normal  as  any  young  Amer- 
ican you  can  find  on  any  college  campus 
or  any  young  husband  and  father  you 
may  meet  on  einy  commuting  train. 

Pat  admits  that  he  has  one  or  two  odd 
quirks.  "I  think  the  one  that  causes  me 
the  most  trouble,"  he  says,  "is  a  kind  of 
refusing  to  grow  up  in  some  ways.  I've 
been  married  for  four  years.  We  have 
three  babies.  But  I  still  sort  of  hang  on 
to  athletics,  read  sports  magazines  like 
crazy,  go  out  pitching  ball.  Result  is 
that  I'm  often  late  for  appointments. 
Anything  you  can  think  of  young  people  1 
doing,  I  like  to  do.    Thing  is,  I  don't  want 


to  grow  up.  I  never  did.  When  I  was 
fourteen,  I  wanted  to  be  twelve  again. 
I've  always  been  aware,  I  think,  that  life 
is  short  and  precious. 

"Otherwise,"  Pat  continued,"  I'm  as 
normal  as  they  come  in  background, 
bringing-up,  everything.  My  folks — my 
daddy's  in  the  contracting  business — are 
people  of  modest  but  comfortable  means. 
I  have  one  brother,  Nick.  He's  in  David 
Lipscomb  College  back  home,  where  I 
spent  my  freshman  year.  And  two  sis- 
ters, Margie  and  Judy,  who  are  still  in 
grade  school.    I'm  the  oldest  of  the  family. 

"When  I  was  born  my  parents  were 
hoping  for  a  girl.  They  decided  on  the 
name  Patricia.  When  I  fooled  them  by 
being  a  boy,  they  named  me  Charles 
Eugene,  but  called  me  Pat. 

"As  a  kid,  I  did  all  the  things  all  kids 
do — played  sandlot  ball,  swam  in  the 
Cumberland  River,  sang  some,  too.  But 
so  do  lots  of  kids  in  school  and  in  church 
and  in  neighborhood  movie  houses  where, 
if  they  want  to  perform  at  a  Saturday 
matinee,  they're  invited  to  do  so.  In  high 
school,  I  was  fortunate  enough  to  letter' 
in  all  the  sports.  And  if  I  have  any 
regrets  in  my  short  and  happy  life,  the 
main  one  is  that  I've  not  been  able  to 
play  college  sports. 

"It's  normal,  too,  to  fall  in  love  in  your 
teens,  want  to  get  married,  meet  up  with 
narental  opposition — and  elope.  When  we 
were  both  nineteen  that's  what  Shirley 
and  I  did.  We'd  gone  together  for  three 
years,  all  through  high  school.  But  when 
we  talked  about  marriage,  the  cry  was, 
'Too  young!'  I  was  emceeing  a  local 
teen-age  show.  Youth  On  Parade,  on 
radio.  Shirley,  who  planned  to  be  a 
nurse,  was  starting  her  course.  'Marry  at 
nineteen,'  our  folks  said,  'and  you'll  have 
a  hard  time  amounting  to  anything.'  It 
got  to  the  point  where  they  even  dis- 
couraged our  dating  because  they  were 
afraid  we  might  get  married  too  early. 
Then  Shirley's  daddy,  who  is  Red  Foley, 
one  of  the  stars  of  Nashville's  Grand  Ole 
Opry,  quit  the  'Opry'  to  become  the  star 
of  his  own  network  TV  show,  Ozark 
Jubilee,  which  comes  out  of  Springfield, 
Missouri.  Shirley  was  going  to  have  to 
move  to  Springfield  with  her  daddy.  So 
we  eloped.  Came  as  a  shock  to  our  par- 
ents, both  sets.  Now  they're  very  happy 
about  the  whole  thing.  But  for  a  month 
or  two  after  we  eloped  there  was  uneasi- 
ness and  tension,  which  is  why  we 
skimmed  off  to  Texas  where  we  could 
be  alone,  work  things  out  for  ourselves. 
A  freshman  at  David  Lipscomb  when  we 
eloped,  I  transferred  to  North  Texas  State 
in  Denton.  By  means  of  such  extra- 
curricular activities  as  host  of  WBAP- 
TV's  Barn  Dance,  I  was  able  to  earn  about 
fifty  dollars  a  week.  On  that  money,  even 
after  Cherry  our  first  baby  was  born,  we 
lived  fine.  We  were  just  as  happy,  every 
bit,  as  we  are  now.  We  learned  to  cook 
hamburgers  all  kinds  of  different  ways — 
hamburger  patties,  meat  loaf,  spaghetti 
and    hamburger,    several    kinds    of    hash. 

"We  don't  splurge  money  now.  Only 
sort  of  real  money  we've  spent  is  for 
our  average-sized  red-brick  with  green- 
roof  house  in  Leonia,  New  Jersey.  It's 
not  a  big  house  but  big  enough  for  us 
and  for  otir  three  babies — Cherry,  now 
two,  Linda  Lee,  one,  and  Deborah  Ann, 
who  came  to  us  the  twenty-second  of  last 
September.  We  hope  to  have  six  children 
in  all.  We  have  two  cars,  because  we 
need  two  cars.  I've  had  to  buy  some 
nice  clothes.  And  a  good  hi-fi  set  which, 
like  the  clothes,  comes  under  the  head  of 
business  necessity.  And  I've  just  ordered 
every  record  Bing  Crosby,  Perry  Como 
and  Frank  Sinatra  ever  made.  Which 
comes  under  the  head  of  pure  pleasure. 
Actually,  though,  we  have  very  few  lux- 


uries. No  maid — but  blessedly,  Eva,  a 
family  friend  who  helped  raise  Shirley 
and  is  now  helping  us  raise  our  genera- 
tion! Works  out  beautifully  because 
Shirley  loves  to  cook,  does  not  love  to 
wash  dishes.  Eva'd  just  as  soon  wash 
dishes,  does  not  like  to  cook. 

"Most  of  our  fun  is  at  home.  We  play 
with  the  babies.  We  have  a  ping-pong 
table  in  our  recreation  room  downstairs. 
At  ping-pong,  Shirley  beats  me  to  a  pulp. 
At  anything  that  calls  for  physical  coor- 
dination— baseball,  basketball,  tennis,  golf, 
swimming — she's  a  whiz!  We  play  the 
ukulele  and  sing  together.  Shirley,  when 
she  sings,  sounds  just  like  Jo  Stafford. 
She  hasn't  an  ambition — my  luck  again — 
to  have  a  singing  career.  But  she  does 
have  a  lovely  voice.  One  of  these  days 
we  may  make  some  records  together,  per- 
haps an   album.     It  would  be  fvm. 

"Apart  from  loving  her  as  I  do,  she's 
a  wonderful  wife  for  me  because  her 
background  as  Red  Foley's  daughter 
helps  her  understand  my  work  and  what 
it  requires  of  me.  Being  away  from  home 
a  lot,  I  mean,  and  the  temptations  you 
meet  up  with  in  show  business.  I  don't 
smoke  or  drink,  and  have  no  temptation 
to  do  either.  But  there's  a  lot  of  pres- 
sure, especially  when  you're  getting 
started,  from  people  who  offer  you 
drinks,  feel  uneasy  with  you  if  you  don't 
drink.  Actually,  though,  not  drinking 
didn't  hurt  or  hinder  me  any  because  I 
found  what  I  am  sure  is  the  right  way  of 
handling  it.  If,  when  people  offer  you  a 
drink,  you  say,  'No,  thanks,  or,  not  today,' 
they  keep  after  you.  You're  always  on 
the  spot.  But  if  you  just  say,  'I  don't 
drink,'  first  thing  you  know  people  just 
say,  'Oh,  yes,  you  don't  drink,'  and  let  it 
go  at  that. 

"On  Sundays  Shirley  and  I  go  to 
church — drive  from  Leonia  to  the  Church 
of  Christ  which  is  on  East  80th  Street  in 
New  York.  Always  active  in  church 
work,  I'm  still  active.  I  join  in  the  con- 
gregational singing  and,  when  our  min- 
ister is  obliged  to  be  away,  sometimes 
preach  the  sermon. 

"My  greatest  fear  in  life  is  of  not 
amounting  to  anything.  I'm  not  afraid  of 
physical  danger,  or  of  the  dark,  or  of 
death — none  of  those  phobias.  But  if, 
when  the  time  comes  to  call  it  quits,  I 
have  to  say,  'Well,  what  do  you  know, 
you  haven't  been  of  much  use  or  value 
to  others  beside  yourself,'  I  will  know  I 
haven't  amounted  to  anything. 

"Because  this  is  my  greatest  fear.  If 
I  can't  have,  as  a  singer,  the  kind  of  in- 
fluence I  want  to  have,  I'll  turn  to  teach- 
ing. In  a  classroom,  perhaps.  Or  as  a 
producer  of  educational  programs  on 
television.  I  could  teach,  using  the  TV 
set   as   a   classroom. 

"If  I  can  keep  on  singing,  if  people  keep 
on  wanting  to  hear  me  sing,  I  can  do 
more  good,  I've  now  begun  to  realize, 
than  I  can  do  in  any  other  medium.  For 
if  you  are  a  top  entertainer,  such  as 
Perry  or  Bing,  you  can  raise  a  million 
dollars  a  year  for  charity,  such  charities 
as  the  Heart  Fund,  the  Cancer  Fund, 
Cerebral  Palsy  and  so  on.  Keep  on  doing 
this  for  a  few  years  and  you  can  be 
nearly  as  instrumental  in  healing  people 
as  the  doctor  who  spends  his  life  at  it. 

"A  popular  and  beloved  television  en- 
tertainer, who  lives  a  good  life,  has  a 
good  effect  on  people,  the  millions  of 
people  he  can  reach,  does  good  in  the 
same  sense  as  a  preacher  who  spends 
his  life  at  it. 

"And  so,  as  of  now,  my  hope  is  that 
I  can  keep  on  singing,  that  people  will 
want  me  to  keep  on  singing.  Then  I  can 
look  back  and  say,  'Well,  I  hope  I've  been 
able  to  bring  some  good  to  others,  as  well 
as  to  myself.' " 


lASTI  YOUR  CHANCE  FOR  SUCCESS. 


1  -»      No  High  School  Necetsgry;  No  Age  LImtt 

''''^T  Seod  for  sample  lesson  and  nurse's  bookleb 
It's  FREE  ,  ,  .  no  obligation.  Just  mail  coupon» 
See  for  yourself  how  easy  it  is  to  gei  BIG  PAY  .  . , 
gain  social  prestige  and  financial  independence  at 

•  POST  GRADUATE  HOSPITAL  trained  PRACTICAL  NURSE. 
Learn  at  home  while  you  earn.  Don't  delay. 
Send  coupon  NOWl 

•  POST  GRADUATE  HOSPITAL  KHOOL  OF  NURSING      * 


•  9C17  Auditorium  BIdg. 

•  NAME 

•  ADDRESS 

•  CITY 


Chicog»  S,  III. 


-STATE- 


SONGPOEMSWANTED 

To  be  set  to  musls.  Send  rour  poemi  todav  for  free 
examination  I 

J.  CHAS.  MeNEIL  (A.  B.  Matter  of  Musre) 
510-MG  So.  Alexandria  Lot  Angelet  5,  Calif. 


JFi«'"HIGHSCHOOLHiV 


)  No  classes  to  attend.  Easy  spare-time  train- 
\  ing  covers  big  choice  of  subjects.  Friendly  \ 
\  instructors ;  standard  texts.  Full  credit  {or\ 

previous  schooling.     Diploma  awarded. 

Write  now  for  FREE  catalog  I 

WAYNE    SCHOOL  Catalog  HH-42 
f  2527  Sheffield  Ave.,  Chicago  1 4,  Illinois^ 


,,l   I   I,,,  SIMULATED    DIAMOND    LADIES' 

.\\' '    '"^//.       Engagement  and  Wedding  Rings 
\'^\,gg^^^a^^/  ONLY    $100    o.^l^f^^j 


Both     Rings    for    $1 


You'll  love  these  rlnes — the  simu- 
lated diamonds  look  liKe  a  "million 
dollars"  and  sparkle  with  many 
stones.  SEND  NO  MONEY.  Pay 
postman     only     $1      plus     postage 

_    ___     rings.     If     you     send     $1 

/  cash  with  order  we  pay  all  postage. 
GUARANTEE:  Wear  rings  aO  days. 
If  not  pleased  return  for  refund. 
White  or  yellow  gold  color  effect 
or  sterling   silver  mountings. 

HAREM    CO.,    Dept.    A162 
30    Church    St.,    New   York   7,    N.    Y. 


^y\\\\  1  llll  ( /////        for    both    rings.     If    you  _  send 


CORNS 

Removed  by  Mosco,also Calluses. 
Quick,  easy,  economical.  Just  rub  I 
on.  Jars,  35  ^,  60  ^.  At  your  druggist.  Money  refund- 
ed it  not  satisSed.  Moss  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

•CORN* 
REMOVER 


MOSCO 


Cash  In  On  EVERY  Occasion 

with  MIDWEST  Greeting  Cards 

•  Makebiggerprofit3ALLYE-A,R.  Show 
►friendsfast-sellingValentines. Easter, 
>  Mother's,  Father's  Day  Cards,  plus 
■•  best  Birthday,  Get-Well  assortments. 
J  etc.  4  new  Valentine  packs.  Secrtt  Pal 
'  Cards,  nnusual  new  ideas,  exceptional 
'  bargains  in  Cards,  Notes,  Gifts,  Gao^'ets, 
/Personalized  Stationery.  Profits  to  100% 
_     on  big  line.  Samples  on  approval.  Write. 
MIdwestCardCo..  1113  Washington  Ave.  DepL7S4.A.  St.  Loi:isi.  Mo. 


Amazing  Opportunity  To 
Earn  Spare-Time  Casli! 


•  Rush  name  and  address  today  for  « 

•  FREE  money-making  information:  « 
T  Subscription  Agents  Division  • 

•  MACFADDEN    PUBLICATIONS  I 
J  205  E.  42  St..  N.Y.   17,   N.Y.  J 


^ENLARGEMENT 

"^  o/ you f  Fai/Ofrfe  Photo 


FROM  FAMOUS  HOLLYWOOD  FIUM  STUDIOS 

Just  to  get  acquainted,  we  will 
make  you  a  beautiful  5x7  black 
and  white  enlargement  of  any 
>  snapshot,  photo  or  negative.  Also 
15  be  sure  to  include  color  of  hair, 
eyes  and  clothing,  and  get  our 
Air  Mail  Bargain  Offer  for  hav- 
ing your  enlargement  beautifully 

hand-colored  In  oil  and  mounted 

in  a  handsome  frame.  Limit  2  to  a  customer. 
Please  enclose  10c  to  cover  cost  of  handling  tind 
mailing  each  enlargement.  Original  returned.  We 
will  pay  $100.00  for  children's  or  adults  pictures 
used  in  our  advertising.  Act  NOW! 

Offer  limited  to  U.S.A.  only 

HOLLYWOOD  FILM  STUDIOS.  Dept.  F-307 
7021    Santo   Monica   Blvd.,    Hollywood   38,    Calif. 


fe 


wSnmTi 


ttuSS 


79 


N£W  DESIGJVS  FOR  LIVING 


7042 — Inspired  by  grandmother's 
fan,  this  gay  scrap  quilt  is  easy  to  put 
together.  Repeat  the  same  scraps  In 
every  block,  or  take  them  as  they 
come  to  your  hand.  Easy  directions, 
color  chart  included.  25^ 

7052 — Only  one  yard  of  35-inch  fab- 
ric is  needed  for  this  pretty  apron! 
A  stroke  of  your  iron  and  flowers  ap- 
pear in  combination  of  blue,  yellow, 
green.  Tissue  pattern,  color  transfers 
included.  Medium   size  only.  250 

7021 — Do  this  doubly  interesting  de- 
sign !  Embroider  girl  and  flowers, 
crochet  skirt  and  edging  to  add  a 
lovely  touch  to  gift  linens.  Transfer, 
one  111/^  X  19,  two  SV2  x  15-inch 
motifs;  crochet  directions.  250 

550 — Doily  or  centerpiece — a  new 
beauty  for  your  home!  Crochet  forms 
the  lovely  flower  effect.  Directions 
for  crocheted  doily  22-inche.s  in  No. 
30  mercerized  cotton;  smaller  in  No. 
50  cotton;   larger  in  string.  250 

7137 — Help  children  to  remember 
prayers  with  this  picture-sampler. 
Letters  are  large,  easy  to  read.  You'll 
love  to  embroider  this  easy  sampler. 
Transfer  15 1/2x19  V2  inches.  250 

7207 — Bluebirds  of  happiness  are 
fun  to  crochet  in  pineapple  design, 
combined  with  a  lacy  edging.  Crochet 
directions  for  chair-set  in  No.  30  mer- 
cerized cotton.  Easy  to  do!  250 

7274 — Doily  favorite  in  pineapple 
crochet.  Crochet  oval  doily  15  x  26 
inches,  matching  15-inch  round  doily 
— using  No.  30  mercerized  cotton. 
Smaller  in  No.  50  cotton;  larger  in 
string.  250 


'»*A 


^'  liau  I  Iny  nn  daun  ±b  sleep    '^ 

i^  IprnyThee,  LDrd,  nyspul        ^ 

#  to  keep                        % 

^  If  X  shauldl  die  beFarn  lunke     jjLi 

•*'  Iprny  Thee,  Lord,  musouL      ^ 

'ft  totnkB                      J? 

:^If  I  should  live  For  other  dnys^^ 

^ff%t,       IprniiThpe,LDrd,       jjs  . 
i    ^-■'^^^•••- guide nyuiRys 

Hi  Hnen    .1  ••^^ 


80 


7137 


Send  twenty-five  cents  (in  coin)  for  each  pattern  to:  TV  Radio  Mirror,  Needlecraft  Service,  P.O.  Box  137, 
New  York  11,  New  York.  Add  five  cents  for  each  pattern  for  iirst-class  mailing.  Send  an  additional  250  for 


Old  Chelsea  Station, 
Needlecraft  Catalog. 


^n 


mQJiV. 


...and  you  can  prove  it  with  a  Palnnolive  bar! 


ff^AJl^ r^^t^CH^  U\\d  and  Gentle 

Palnnolive  Care  Cleans  Deeper  ! 


'         ^„  ~'           ^^ 

/.    Hidden  dirt  is  a  beauty 
thief  !  After  ordinary,  casual 
cleansing  with  your  regular  soap  or 
face  cream,  rub  your  face  hard  with 
a  cotton  pad.  Smudge  on  pad  is 
hidden  dirt  you've  left  behind.    It 
hides  your  natural  prettiness. 

^2.,  Beautifully  clean  after  60- 
£econd   Palmolive  facial! 

Test  again   after   washing   the 
Palmolive  way.  Pad  stays  snowy- 
white  . .  .proving  that  mild  and  gentle 
Palmolive  care  cleans  cleaner,  deeper 
. . .  without  irritation! 

Ne 


3e  Pslmoli^s  S^eef 
and  Clean  ^" ^""Z 


0 


ew  complexion  beauty  In  just  one  minute?  Yes,  fair  lady,  yes!  Because  Palmolive  care  removes 
beauty-robbing  hidden  dirt  that  casual  cleansing  misses.  And  only  a  soap  as  mild  as  Palmolive  can  cleanse  so 


t\^^r>\\l    \kl\\\\r\\\k     I  Kfifi-tfiz-M-k        Cfi^ff     Di»ilnn/-\lltf^     y-y-^i-^     ^^A^\i       t-^it-^A     f^^     t /i-^  ■  i  »•     \-^%t^      ^  ^w^.^\  ^k.\  ^  ^      U.^ 1.  . 


1.1 


> 


e  au 


l9fa 


tr 


c 


THERE  ARE  THREE  BRECK  SHAMPOOS 
FOR    THREE     DIFFERENT     HAIR    CONDITIONS 

The  Breck  Shampoo  for  your  individual  hair  condition  helps 
bring  out  the  natural  beauty  and  lustre  of  your  hair.  There 
are  Three  Breck  Shampoos  for  three  different  hair  conditions. 
One  Breck  Shampoo  is  for  dry  hair.  Another  Breck  Shampoo 
is  for  oily  hair.  A  third  Breck  Shampoo  is  for  normal  hair.  A 
Breck  Shampoo  leaves  your  hair  soft,  lustrous  and  beautiful. 

The  Three  Breck  Shampoos  are  available  at  Beauty  Shops,  Drug  Stores,  Department  Stores  and  wherever  cosmetics  are  sold. 


JOHN 
NEW 


H         BRECK 
YORK 


INC  •  MANUFACTURING  CHEMISTS 

CHICAGO  .  SAN         FRANCISCO 

Copyright  I9S6  by  John  H.  Breck  Inc. 


SPRINGFIELD 
ANGELES 


3  MASSACHUSETTS 

OTTAWA  CANADA 


HAnio 


tADIO  MIRROR 


MIRROR 


FEB. 


RLENE  FRANCIS 
Woman  Wonder 


6ARR0WAY 
Aon  of  Today 


BILL  HALEY 

Shooting  Sfor 

of  Rock  'n'  Roll 


Tliat  Ivory  look 

so  clear. . .  so  fresh.. . .  so  esisily  yours 


Snow  cutie — this  adorable  tot  is  all 


a-sparkle  with  That  Ivory  Look.  Your 

complexion  can  have  it,  too.  Remember — 

the  milder  your  soap,  the  prettier  your  skin. 

And  Ivory  has  a  mildness  all  its  own.  More 

doctors  advise  it  for  a  baby's  skin,  and 

yours,  than  any  other  soap. 


Winter  beauty — That  Ivory  Look  is  fresh  and 
clear  as  a  frosty  day.  And  the  magic  of 
mildness  can  so  easily  make  it  yours.  Simply 
start  using  pure,  mild  Ivory  regularly — see 
how  radiant  it  leaves  your  skin. 
You  add  such  a  lovely  sparkle  to  every  day 
when  you  have  That  Ivory  Look! 


^mn  I  I  III  1^ 

KlVORY  ; 


ivory! 


L 


it's  like  getting  one  free 

4  cakes  of  Personal  Size  Ivory 
cost  about  the  same  as  3  cakes 
of  other  leading  toilet  soaps. 

99  ^iioXpitre  ...it  floats 


More  doctors  advise  Ivory  than  arijr  ottier  soap 


THIS  TIME /IT'S 


LISTERINE 
ANTISEPTIC 


Nothing  can  come  between  them  now. 
Polly  was  heartbroken  when  Bruce  stopped 
dating  her  ...  it  took  her  weeks  to  discover 
why  he  did.That's  the  sad  thing  about  halitosis 
(bad  breath).  You  can  offend  . . .  and  never  know. 
Luckily,  Listerine  stops  bad  breath  instantly. 

Germs  often  cause  bad  breath— no 
tooth  paste  kills  g^erms  like  Listerine 

The  most  common  cause  of  bad  breath  is  germs. 
No  tooth  paste  kills  germs  the  way  Listerine  does, 
because  no  tooth  paste  is  antiseptic.  Listerine  kills 
germs  by  millions  . . ,  stops  bad  breath  four  times  better 
than  tooth  paste.  Gargle  Listerine  full-strength 
morning,  night,  before  every  date. 


stops  bad  breath  4  times  better  than  tooth  paste 


j^WTA^y, 


Is  Tampax 
realythat 
comfortable?" 


JOAN:  "It  certainly  is!  I'm  not  even 
aware  I'm  wearing  Tampax.  It's 
so  comfortable,  so  convenient, 
that  I  simply  couldn't  ever  im- 
agine using  anything  else!" 

PAM:  "Jane  told  me  she  almost  for- 
gets about  'her  time'!" 

JOAN:  "I  do,  too!  Why,  I'm  hardly 
conscious  of  a  difference  in  days 
of  the  month!  Tampax  gives  so 
much  freedom!  Poise!  Confi- 
dence! It's  so  modern.  Really 
wonderful ..." 

PAM:  (laughing)  "All  right!  I'm  sold. 
I'll  try  it  this  very  month!" 

Only  by  actually  trying  doctor-invented 
Tampax*  internal  sanitary  protection, 
can  you  discover  all  its  many  advan- 
tages. Joan  might  have  added  .  .  . 
Tampax  is  made  of  surgical  cotton,  in 
disposable  applicators.  Easy  to  insert. 
Hands  need  never  touch  the  Tampax. 
No  chance  of  odor  forming.  It's  con- 
venient to  carry  "extras."  Tampax 
comes  in  3  absorbencies:  Regular, 
Super,  Junior.  Sold  at  all  drug  and 
notion  counters.  Tampax  Incorporated, 
Palmer,  Mass. 


•  Reg.  U.  S.  Pat.  Off. 


Invented  by  a  doctor — 
now  used  by  millions  of  women 


TV 


RADIO 
MIRROR 


FEBRUARY,    1957 


ATLANTIC   EDITION 


VOL.    47.    NO.    3 


Ann  Higginbotham,  Editorial  Director 
Ann  Mosher,  Editor  ,  Jack  Zasorin,  Art  Director 

Teresa  Buxton,  Managing  Editor  Frances  Maly,  Associate  Art  Director 

Claire  Safran,  Associate  Editor  Joan  Clarke,  Art  Assistant 

Dick  Sheppard,  Assistant  Editor  Bud  Goode,  West  Coast  Editor 


PEOPLE  ON  THE  AIR 


6 

25 
28 
32 
34 
36 
50 
52 
54 
58 


What's  New  From  Coast  to  Coast by  Peter  Abbott 

That's  My  Steve  Allen! by  Jayne  Meadows 

Rocking  Around  With  Bill  Haley by  John  Grande 

All- American  Mother   (Jane  Wyatt) by  Diane  Scott 

This  Is  Where  It  All  Began  (Hal  March) by  Maxine  Arnold 

My  Friend,  Jackie  Gleason by  Jack  Lescoulie 

The  Edge  Of  Night  (a  Fiction  Bonus  from  the  popular  daytime  serial) 

Tim  Considine  Takes  a  Spin by  Bud  Goode 

The  Shining  Hours   (Durward  Kirby) by  Mary  Temple 

No  Doubt  About  Love  (Dave  Garroway) by  Martin  Cohen 

Who's  Who  on  Hilltop  House  (Jan  Miner,  Lester  Fletcher,  Casey 
Allen,  Ethel  Everett,  Bobby  Readick,  Janice  Gilbert,  Pamela 
Fitzmaurice,  Michael  Mann,  Cathleen  Cordell) 60 

FEATURES  IN  FULL  COLOR 

The  Importance  of  Being  Qaire  (Anne  Burr) by  Frances  Kish  40 

The  World's  My  Family  (Roy  Rogers  and  Dale  Evans)  by  Dora  Albert  42 

Arlene  Francis — Who  Does  It  All  Herself by  Marie  Haller  46 

Dawn  Linkletter's  Wonderful  Life by  Maurine  Remenih  48 

YOUR  LOCAL  STATION 

Early  Bird  and  Night  Owl  (WINS) 10 

Capital  Weatherman  (WMAL,  WMAL-TV) 12 

Friends  in  Deed 18 

Oh,  Brother!    (WICH) 20 

Now  They  Are  Five  (WORD 65 

It  Just  Comes  Natural  (NBC  Network,  WRCA) 66 

YOUR  SPECIAL  SERVICES 

TV  Radio  Mirror  Goes  to  the  Movies by  Janet  Graves  14 

New  Patterns  for  You  (smart  wardrobe  suggestions) 15 

Information    Booth 16 

New  Designs  for  Living  (needlecraft  and  transfer  patterns) 19 

Can  I  Help  You? by  Joan  Davis  22 

Beauty:  Elisabeth  Fraser — Beauty  in  All  Weather....by  Mary  Sherwood  64 

Cover  portrait  of  Steve  Allen  by  David  Workman  of  U.  S.  Features 


BUY  YOUR  MARCH  ISSUE  EARLY   •   ON  SALE  FEBRUARY  5 


^oiO 


PUBLISHED      MONTHLY      by      Macfadden 

Publications,  Inc.,  New  York.  N.  Y. 
EXECUTIVE,      ADVERTISING      AND      EDI- 
«TORIAL      OFFICES      at     205      East     42nd 
'  Street,   New  Yorlt.    N.   Y.   Editorial  Branch 
^  Office;    6269    Selma    Ave..    Hollywood    28, 
'  Calif.     Irving     S.     Manheimer,     President; 
Lee      Andrews.      Vice      President;      Meyer 
Dworkin,    Secretary  and  Treasurer.  Adver- 
tising offices   also    in   Chicago,    22  X    North 
LaSalle  Street,  and  San  Francisco. 

SUBSCRIPTION  RATES:  $3.00  one  year.  U.  S.  and 
Possessions  and  Canada.  $5.00  per  year  for  all  other 
countries.  ^.   , 

CHANGE  OF  ADDRESS:  6  weeks'  notice  essential. 
When  possible,  please  furnish  stencil  impression  ad- 
dress from  a  recent  issue.  Address  changes  can  be 
made  only  if  you  send  us  your  old,  as  well  as  your 
new  address.  Write  to  TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East 
42nd  Street,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 
MANUSCRIPTS:  All  manuscripts  will  be  carefully  con- 


sidered, but  publisher  cannot  be  responsible  for  loss  or 
damage.  It  is  advisable  to  keep  a  duplicate  copy  for 
your  records.  Only  those  manuscripts  accompanied  by 
stamped,  self-addressed  return  envelopes  or  with  suffi- 
cient return  postage  will  be  returned.  _^  ^.. 
FOREIGN  editions  handled  through  Macfadden  Publi- 
cations International  Corp.,  205  East  42nd  Street,  New 
York  17.  N.  Y.  Irving  S.  Manheimer,  President;  Doug- 
las Lockhart,  Vice  President.  __^ 
RE-ENTERED  as  Second  Class  Matter,  June  28,  1954. 
at  the  Post  Office  at  New  York,  N.  Y..  under  the  Act  of 
March  3,  1879.  Authorized  as  Second  Class  mail,  P.O. 
Dept.,  Ottawa,  Ont.,  Canada.  Copyright  1957  by  Mac- 
fadden Publications,  Inc.  All  rights  reserved  under  In- 
ternational Copyright  Convention.  All  rights  reserved 
under  Pan-American  Copyright  Convention.  Todos  de- 
rechos  reservados  segun  la  Convencion  Pan- Americana 
de  Propiedad  Literaria  y  Artistica.  Title  trademark 
registered  in  U.S.  Patent  Office.  Printed  in  U.  S.  A. 
by  Art  Color  Printing  Company. 

Member  of  the  TRUE  STORY  Women's  Group 


MATIOMAl  BOOK  €I.UB'S 


PRIZES 


NAME  OF  FAME'XONTEST! 


Do  you  enjoy  the  fun,  excitement 
and  thrills  of  solving  picture  puz- 
zles? Sure  you  do  .  .  .  everybody  does 
.  .  .  especially  when  your  skill  can  bring  you  as  much 
as  $25,000  in  cold  cash.  And  right  now  is  your  chance 
to  share  in  the  aaion,  the  challenge,  and  .  .  .  yes  .  .  . 
the  cash  awards,  too  ...  of  one  of  the  greatest  puizle 
contests  ever  run  in  the  United  States !  It's  the  sensa- 
tional new  National  Contest  Book  Club  Puzzle  Con- 
test, just  getting  under  way  .  .  .  with  200  great  cash 
prizes  totaling  (40,000! 
Just  think  what  you  could  do  with  prize  money  like 


that .  .  .  all  yoius  in  a  liunp  sum!  It  could  buy  you  a  beautiful  new 
home  .  .  .  free  and  clear !  A  stunning  new  car,  a  boat,  a  luxury  vaca- 
tion cruise  around  the  world !  It  could  pay  for  a  college  education 
tor  your  youngsters,  or  make  your  own  retirement 
easier.  It  could  give  you  a  start  in  your  own  business. 
It_  could  bring  you  the  wonderful  security  that  comes 
with  a  big,  solid  bank  account!  Enter  now,  and  you 
may  be  a  prize  winner  of  any  of  200  big  cash  prizes 
that  must  be  paid.  Enter  now,  and  make  yourself 
eligible    to    win    a    fabulous    $2,500.00    promptness 
bonus  along  with  first  prize  of  $22,500— a  grand  total 
of  $25,000.00. 


THIS  SAMPLE  PUZZLE  IS  ALL  WORKED  OUT  FOR  YOU 

SEE  HOW  MUCH  FUN  IT  IS  TO  SOLVE  I 


This  sample  puzzle,  as  all  our  puzzles,  has  3 
dues  to  help  you  reach  the  answer.  First, 
study  the  cartoon.  Here  it  shows  one  man  say- 
ing MARK,  and  the  other  mentions  the  word 
POLE.  The  letter  "O"  is  shown  twice.  What 
else  can  the  answer  be  but  MARCO  POLO.' 
Below  the  cartoon,  4  names  are  listed  as  your 
second  clue.  Among  them  is  MARCO  POLO 
so  you  know  your  answer  is  right.  For  the 
third  clue,  look  at  the  bottom  portion  of  the 
puzzle.  You  will  see  that  various  objeas  and 
letters  of  the  alphabet  are  portrayed.  Identify 
each  of  the  objeas  and  add  or  subtract  the 
letters  as  indicated.  First  there  is  a  POT. 
You  are  told  to  subtract  the  letter  T,  then 
you  add  the  word  CLOCK  which  is  the  next 
pictured  object.  Then,  you  subtract  the  let- 
ters C  C  K.  By  correctly  adding  and  subtract- 
ing you  are  left  with  the  letters  POLO.  This 
spells  the  correct  LAST  NAME 


AS  MUCH   AS 

^25,000.00 

PLUS  200  BIG  CASH 
AWARDS,  SUCH  AS: 


Correct  Answer  Is  ONE  Of  These  Names  of  Famel 
D  Marco  Polo  g  Betsy  Ross  p  Genghis  Khan  Q  Frank  Buck 


O* 


-T     + 


HERE  IS  YOUR  FIRST   PUZZLE! 

Write  Your  Answer  In  Coupon  Below  (at  right)  Mall  It  NOWl 


2nd  Prize $5,000.00 

3rel  Prize 2,500.00 

4th  Prize 1,500.00 

5th  Prize 1,000.00 

6th  thru  10th  ea.      200.00 

Plus  190  additional 
Cash  Prizes 

L-  Grand  Total  $40,000.00  — 

PRIZES  PAID  PROMPTLY 

IN   2   YEARS   $133,000.00  AWARDED 
FROM   NATIONAL   PUZZLE   CONTESTS 

National  Puzzle  Contests  have  offered  $133,000.00  in  prizes  within  the 
short  space  of  2  years!  That's  a  whale  of  a  lot  of  money!  But  now  the 
Natiotial  Contest  Book  Club . . .  with  prizes  of  an  additional  $40.000 .  will 
raise  that  grand  total  to  $173,000.00!  If  you  are  18  years  of  age  or  older 
and  live  m  the  U.  S.,  Canada  or  a  U.  S.  Possession,  you  are  eligible  to 
enter  this  fabulous  contest.  It  is  sponsored  by  the  National  Contest  Book 
Club,  Inc.  All  judging  will  be  conducted  in  an  impartial,  impersonal  man- 
ner to  assure  absolute  equality  of  opportunity  to  all.  All  contestants  will 
receive  exact  information  on  the  outcome  of  the  contest  .  .  .  including  names 
of   all   winners,    plus   correct   puzzle   solutions.    All   prizes   will   be   paid 

P™°P'!>>,A^Di',;T^"ivT'*^  P"zes  are  held  in  escrow  at  the  BANKERS 
TRUST  COMPANY,  N.  Y. 

To  All  Puzzle  Entrants 

The  Puzzle  Encyclopedia 

Everyone  who  enters  the  National 
Contest  Book  Club  Puzzle  Contest  re- 
ceives this  fascinating  Puzzle  Encyclo- 
pedia. Contains  hundreds  of  quizzes, 
riddles,  puzzles.  Will  give  you  many, 

many  enjoyable  hours. 

Write  Your  Answer  In  Coupon  Below. 
We  Send  Complete  Contest  Details  Immediately. 

■Give  Yourself  A  Chance  To  Win 1 

$2,500.00  PROMPTNESS  AWARD 


MAIL  COUPON  TODAY 


PUZZLE 
NO.  ONE 


I  The  Correct  Answer  Is  ONE  Of  These  Names  of  Fame! 
D  Billy  Sunday  a  Robert  Fulton  D  Cotton  Mather  DlraRemsen 


^   "^Si 


-PR    + 
-TR  = 


ABBREVIATION    FOR 
NORTH  DAKOTA 


NATIONAL  CONTEST  BOOK  CLUB,  INC. 

509  Fifth  Avenue,  Dept.  161  New  York  City  17,  N.  Y. 


Notional  Contest  Book  Club,  Inc. 

509  Fifth  Ave.,  Dept.  161  ,    N.  Y.  C.  17,  N.  Y 

My  Answer  to  Puzzle  No.  1  is; 

(PLEASE  PRINT) 


I  want  full  particulars  about  The  National  Contest  Book  Club's  $40  000 
Name  of  Fame"  Contest.  Please  mall  me  FREE  the  Official  Entry  Forms 
Rules  and  First  Series  of  Puzzles. 


Name_ 


Address. 
City 


Jone_ 


-State- 


•—--———————————•—— -J 


A  WONDERFUL  INTRODUCTORY  BARGAIN  OFFER  TO 


AIVY 

NEW  BEST-SELLERS  •  DELUXE  BOOKS 

yixi^  On£(/  OMiOotcOlv:  to  buy  as  few 

as  6  new  best-selling  novels  (at  only  $1  each) 

out  of  24  to  be  offered  within  a  year. 


'T'  AKE  advantage  of  this  won- 
■*-  derful  new  introductory  offer 
from  the  famous  Dollar  Book 
Club!  Join  now  and  receive  the 
biggest  bargain  ever  offered  to 
new  members. 

Select  any  3  of  the  big-value 
books  shown  for  only  $1.  Choose 
from  best-sellers  by  top  authors 
. . .  beautiful  library  volumes  . . . 
big  illustrated  books  . . .  many 
newly  selected  for  this  special 
offer!  Just  think— a  total  value  of 
up  to  $22.95  in  publishers'  edi- 
tions for  just : 

As  a  Member,  You  Save 
up  to  75%  on  New  Books! 

Imagine— best-seller  selections  costing 
up  to  $3.95  in  publishers'  editions 
come  to  Club  members  for  only  $1 
each!  Over  the  years  the  biggest  hits 


by  Ernest  Hemingway,  W.  Somerset 
Maugham,  Thomas  B.  Costain,  Daphne 
du  Maurier,  Frank  Yerby  and  others, 
have  come  to  Club  members  at  this 
low  $1  price.  Occasionally,  extra-value 
selections  at  $1.49  are  offered.  All  are 
full-size,  hard-bound  books.  Other  de- 
sirable volumes,  too,  are  offered  at 
savings  up  to  75% !  But  you  buy  only 
the  books  you  want— and  you  don't 
have  to  take  one  every  month.  Take 
as  few  as  six  $1  selections  a  year! 

Send  No  Money— Mail  Coupon! 

Receive  any  3  books  in  this  offer  for 
only  $1,  plus  a  small  shipping  charge. 
Two  books  are  your  gift  for  joining, 
and  one  is  your  first  selection.  There- 
after, you  will  receive  the  Club's  Bul- 
letin, which  describes  forthcoming 
selections. 

No-Risk  Guarantee:  If  not  delighted 
with  your  introductory  Three-Book 
bargain  package,  return  all  books  and 
membership  will  be  cancelled.  Act 
now  to  accept  this  wonderful  offer! 


I 


DOUBLEDAY  ONE  DOLLAR  BOOK  CLUB,  GARDEN  CITY,  NEW  YORK 


NEW  MEMBERS  OF  AMERICA'S  BIGGEST  BOOK  CLUB! 


FOR^l 


ILLUSTRATED  EDITIONS  -  EVEN  BIG  TWO-VOLUME  SETS! 

Up    to    ^22.95    Total    Value  m  PubUshers^  Editions 


MAIL  THiS  COUPON  —  CHOOSE  ANY  3  BOOKS  FOR  ONLY  $1 


r-|  ARUNDEL  -  Kenneth  Roberts'  thrilling 
' — '  epic  of  America's  past.  Meet  army  scout 
Steve  Nason,  a  wildcat  named  Marie,  and 
lovely  Phoebt,  girl  of  the  frontier!  (100) 

[—1  BEYOND  DESIRE  -  Pierre  U  Mure.  Music- 
' — '  haunted  story  of  young  Mendelssohn  and 
the  two  lovely  women  he  adored.  (82) 

r-1  COLUMBIA-VIKING  DESK  ENCYCLOPEDIA.  New 

' — '  2-voIume  edition!  1,440  pages,  }1,000  ar- 
ticles, 1,250.000  words,  etc.  Up-to-date  infor- 
mation on  all  fields  of  human  knowledge !  (61) 

r-|  HANDY  HOME  MEDICAL  ADVISER  (Combined 
' — '  with  "Good  Housekeeping's"  Pocket  Me- 
dical Encyclopedia)  —  Dr.  Morris  Pishhein. 
Home  necessity!  416  pages,  illustrated.  (75) 

[—1  HAMMOND-DOUBLEDAY  WORLD  ATLAS.  90  big 

' — '    maps,    154   photos,   94   pages   of  useful 
facts.  Big  9Ys"  X  12%"  book.  (63) 
|— I  THE  LIVINt  LOTUS   -  Ethel  Mannin.  Story 
' — '    of  a  half-English,  half-Burmese  girl  torn 
between  two  worlds,  two  loves.  (118) 

|— I  MARJORIE  MORNINGSTAR  -  Herman  Wouk 
' — '  lops  his  Caine  Mutiny  with  this  new  bit 
about  a  modern  girl's  quest  for  love.  (83) 

r-1  NATURES  WONDERS  IN  FULL  COLOR.       462 

' — '  amazing  photos  of  animal  life,  insects, 
birds,  trees,  underseas  life,  flowers,  etc.  Vivid 
reading!  Big  new  7"  x  10"  book.  (65) 


r-1  NEW  CREATIVE  HOME  DECORATING.  Big7</g" 
\-^  by  10%"  guide  to  color,  furniture,  light- 
ing, floor  coverings,  accessories,  etc.  658  pic- 
tures, 128  model  rooms,  38  in  color.  (72) 

□  OUTLINE  OF  HISTORY  -  H.  G.  Wells.  New 
2-volume  edition.  1,024  pages,  over  200 
maps,  illustrations.  Whole  history  of  man 
from  earliest  times  to  the  present.  (62) 

□  TENDER  VICTORY -Tayor  Caldwell.  Story 
of  a  young  minister  and  girl  withstanding 
assaults  of  small  town  "respectability".  (92) 

r-|  THESE  LOVERS  FLED  KHM-Howard  Spring's 
' — '  "finest  novel"  —Phila.  Inquirer.  Superb 
love  story  spanning  three  generations.  (85) 

□  THORNDIKE-BARNHART  CONCISE  DICTIONARY 
New  edition.  70,000  entries,  600  pictures, 
544  pages,  many  new  words.  (71) 

□  THE  TONTINE  -  Thomas  B.  Costain's 
colorful  big  novel,  filled  with  unusual 
characters  —  ex-kings,  actresses,  sailors,  etc. 
2  vols..  832pages.  illustrated.  (93) 

|— 1  THE  USA  IN  COLOR.  Editors  of  Holiday 
' — '  take  you  on  scenic  tour  of  our  nation's 
wonders  in  nearly  200  full-color  photos!  (14) 

(-1  THE  WONDERFUL  SIBLEYS  -William  Maier. 

' — '  Story  of  a  weekend  party  and  a  forbidden 
rendezvous  on  a  secluded  beach  that  changed 
the  lives  of  sophisticated  New. Yorkers!  (116) 


Send  No  Money! 

Doubleday  One  Dollar  Book  Club 

Dept.  2.TSG,  Garden  City,  New  York 

Enroll  me  as  a  Dollar  Book  Club  member.  Send  me  at 

once  as  my  gift  books  and  first  selection  the  3  books 

checked  at  the  left  and  bill  me  only  $1  FOR  ALL  3, 

plus  a  small  shipping  charge. 

Also  send  me  my  first  issue  of  The  Bulletin,  telling 
me  about  the  new  forthcoming  one-dollar  bargain 
book  selections  and  other  bargains  for  metiibe(^.  I 
may  notify  you  in  advance  if  I  do  not  wish  the  follow- 
ing month's  selections.  I  do  not  have  to  accept  a  book 
every  month  —  only  six  a  year.  I  pay  nothing  except 
$1  for  each  selection  I  accept,  plus  a  small  shipping 
charge  ( unless  I  choose  an  extra-value  selection ) . 


NO-RISK   GUARANTEE:  If  not  delighted,  return  all 
books  in   7   days,   and  membersliip  nill   be  cancelled. 


Mr. 

Mrs.. 

Miss 


Pleaie 
Print 


Address. 


Cityt 

Zone Slate 

In  Canada,  selection  price  $1.10  plus  shipping.  Address  Doubledas 
Book  Club.  105  Bond  St.,  Toronto  2.  Offer  good  in  U.  S.  &  Canada  only. 


WHAT'S  NEW  PROM  COAST 


By  PETER  ABBOTT 


Newsman  Doug  Edwords  is  honored  by  alma  mater,  Alabama  U. 
L.  to  r.:  Burl  Watson  of  Alabama  U.,  Sam  Levenson,  Doug,  Mel  Allen. 


T 

U 

„        I957's   March   of  Dimes   Poster  Girl,   little   Marlene   Olsen,    meets 
singer  Jaye  P.  Morgan,  one  of  the  many  stars  to  help  fight  polio. 


Dig  This:  When  Elvis  was  in  Manhattan  last 
trip,  he  changed  hotels  every  day  to  escape 
femobs  but,  in  spite  of  secrecy,  on  one  particular 
Sunday  afternoon,   the  hotel  switchboard 
operator  counted  386  phone  calls  asking  for  a 
date.  The  Pay-ofif:    The  gal,  a  June  Taylor 
dancer,  that  he  asked  out  that  evening,  turned 
him  down.  .  .  .  Pat  Boone  westward-ho  after 
semester  finals  at  Columbia  U.  to  settle  down 
in  Hollywood.  On  Feb.  4th,  he  begins  first 
movie,  "Bernadine,"   co-starring  Terry  Moore. 
.  .  .  Another  Godfrey  star,  Judy  Busch,  signed 
with  20th  Century-Fox.  ...  As  to  Mr.  G.,  he 
starred  as  a  dressage  rider  in  the  recent  Royal 
Agricultural  Winter  Fair  Horse  Show  in 
Toronto.  ...  TV  edition  of  "True  Story"  about 
ready  to  preem.  .  .  .  Eve  Arden  may  be 
finished  with  Brooksie  but  it's  still  just  the 
beginning.  She  has  signed  five-year  contract 
with  CBS  and  next  year  will  be  back  in  new 
comedy  series.  .  .  .  Mercedes  McCambridge 
reports   a   startling   experience   with   her   15- 
year-old  son,  John  Lawrence.  Merci,  star 
of  ABC-TV's  Wire  Service,  took  John  to  his 
first  film  premiere  and  reports,  "In  the 
lobby  a  photographer  posed  him  with  Jayne 
Mansfield  and  I  expected  he  would  be  de- 
lighted but,  instead,  he  was  shocked.  I  had 
to  keep  him  from  running  after  the  photog- 
rapher to  kill  the  shot.  John  explained  that 
if  his  friends  saw  the  picture  there  would 
be  too  much  ribbing."   How  about  that?  .  .  . 
And  speaking  of  Jayne  and  ribbing.  La 
Mansfield  plays  on  Benny's  Shower  Of  Stars 
spectacular  on  Jan.  10th. 

Anyone  for  Bottles?   No  more  Coke  for  Eddie 
Fisher  after  Feb.   22nd.   Eddie  loses  his 
sponsor  but  it's  nothing  personal.  All  has  to 
do  with  the  quart-sized  Coke  and  new  plans 
for  promotion  of  the  big  bottle  which 
means   channeling  TV  money   into   other 
media.  So  far  as  TV  goes,  Eddie  stays  on 
but  may  switch  to  a  single  half-hour  opus. 
And  speaking  of  another  kind  of  bottle — 
the  baby's — Carrie  Frances  is  emptying  hers 
and  getting  as  plump  as  a  feather  pillow. 
She  is  truly  a  "Bundle  of  Joy,"  just  as  Eddie 
and  Debbie's  film  turned  out  to  be.  Better 
note,  too,  that  Victor  has  issued  an  album, 
same  title,  that  captures  the  musical  sound- 
track. .  .  .  And  there's  a  champagne  bottle 
in  the  news,  and  because  of  it  Champagne 
Lady  Alice  Lon  is  now  called  "Muscles" 
by  the  Welk  band.  On  tour  with  the  band  in 
Omaha,  Alice  was  called  on  to  christen  a 
new  buUding.  So  Muscles,  rather  Miss 
Muscles,  on  the  first  swing  broke  nothing. 
She  grasped  the  bottle  again  and  swung  with 
all  of  her  might.  Bottle  didn't  break  but  a 
chunk  of  cement  broke  off  the  building. 
Third  try  was  a  success. 

And  Away  We  Go:  For  the  May  spec,  "The 
George  M.  Cohan  Story,"  it's  Hal  March 
in  title  role.  .  .  .  Chief  reason  for  floundering 
and  foundering  of  Most  Beautiful  Gal,  etc. 
was  a  scarcity  of  beautiful  gals  with  talent 
or  talented  gals  with  beauty.  ...  A  gal  with 


I 

I 


TO  COAST 


both,  Doris  Day,  will  make  the  TV  plunge. 
She  and  hubby  sinking  $2-million  into 
"Calamity  Jane"  series.  Incidentally,  she  still 
flatly  refuses  Madison  Avenue  pleas  to  do 
a  spec.  .  .  .  Two  comics'  favorite  musicians 
out  with  great  Capitol  albums:   Hope's  Les 
Brown  flyin'  high  with  dance  stuff  most  re- 
quested  on  tours  and  aptly   titled   "Les 
Brown's  in  Town."  .  .  .  And  then  there's  Jackie 
Gleason's  man  with  the  singing  horn,  Bobby 
Hackett,  in  a  packet  titled  "Rendezvous." 
This  one  is  strictly  music  for  deep  shadows. 

Sex  Abroad :  In  Britain,  Donald  Gray,  Inspector 
Mark  Saber  in  the  Vise  series,  has  had  his 
problem.  It  is  his  plunging  voice.  As  an  an- 
nouncer for  BBC,  he  was  criticized  for 
getting  too  much  sex  into  news  and  weather 
reports.  Honest.  Mash  notes  came  in  from 
women  and  irate  letters  from  jealous  boy- 
friends and  husbands.    It  was  unintentional — 
and  what  could  Donald  do  about  a  naturally 
deep  voice?   Then  he  had  a  letter  from  a 
male  who  wrote,  "You  have  alienated  the 
affections  of  my  wife,  but  if  I  get  rid  of  TV 
it  will  be  my  children  who  suffer.  Therefore 
I  shall  get  rid  of  you."  Scotland  Yard  put 
a  guard  on  Donald  and  newspapers  played 
it  on  the  front  page.  BBC  turned  a  stuffy  red 
but  what  could  they  do — you  can't  uplift 
a  man's  voice. 

Flashes:  NBC-TV  signed  Don  McNeill  to  five- 
year  contract,  which  means  you'll  be 
seeing  him  in  a  morning  slot  across  the  board. 
NBC -TV  is  about  to  juggle  their  entire 
morning  line-up.  .  .  .  Anne  Meacham,  Althea 
on  The  Brighter  Day,  in  Tallulah's  new  play, 
"Eugenia."  .  .  .  Lt.  Rip  Masters  of  Rin  Tin 
Tin,  is  also  M-G-M  recording  star  Jim  Brown. 
His  new  release  is  double-barreled  at  teen- 
age fans.  One  side  is  cowboy   "Wagon 
Train"  and  the  flip-side  throbs  with  "Good- 
bye My  Love."  .  .  .  The  Gleason  Show's 
weekly  cost  averages  $102,000  and  that  doesn't 
include  air  time.  .  .  .  Big  event  for  April 
first:  The  Liints  in  "The  Great  Sebastians."  .  .  . 
Add  April  29th,  Sadlers  Wells  Ballet  with 
"Cinderella."  .  .  .  Agnes  Young,  TV-radio 
actress  and  for  many  years  Aunt  Jenny,  is  a 
grandma.  Her  daughter  Nancy  Wells,  who 
plays  Elaine  Reynolds  on  Ma  Perkins,  had  a 
holiday  bundle.  .  .  .  Gale  Storm,  mother  of 
three  sons,  gave  birth  to  a  girl,  named 
Susanna — after  guess-what-show? 

Two  Young  People:  The  star  of  December 
Bride  feels  more  like  a  starlet.  Although  in  her 
sixties.  Spring  Byington  says,   "Age  is  for 
those  who  are  too  lazy  to  show  an  interest 
in  everything  that  goes  on  around  them. 
Youth  is  for  anyone  who  looks  forward  to 
tomorrow  and  not  back  to  yesterday."  .  .  . 
And  39-year-old  Jack  Benny  is  raising  roofs 
on  concert  halls  around  this  country.  If  you 
can't  see  him,  the  next  best  thing  is  to  catch 
the  fiddle-faddle  on   Capitol's  LP  titled 
"Jack  Benny  Plays  the  Bee."  It's  a  story, 
very  much  fun,  too,  of  (Continued  on  page  8) 


Godfrey  commuted  between  New  York  ond  the  Toronto  Royal  Fair, 
where  he  and  his  Palomino  gave  an  exhibition  of  dressage  riding. 


Country  music  deejays  were  welcomed  to  a   Nashville  festival  by 
Minnie  Pearl,  Governor  and  Mrs.  Frank  Clement,  ond  Mitch  Miller. 


Are  you  ever 


That's  when  most  deodorants  fail... 

but  new  Mum  cream  keeps  working 

You^ve  probably  noticed.. . 


MUM 


^ 

V 


. . .  when  you're  under  emotional  pressure, 
your  perspiration  glands  suddenly  get  more 
active.  That's  when  deodorants  which  de- 
pend on  stopping  perspiration  let  you  down, 
and  odor  often  starts. 

New  Mum®  cream  works  a  completely  dif- 
ferent way.  It  is  the  only  leading  deodorant 
that  works  entirely  by  stopping  odor.  Mum 
keeps  on  working  actively  to  stop  odor  24 
hours  a  day— no  matter  how  active  your  per- 
spiration glands  are. 

No  wonder  Mum  is  so  dependable.  Isn't  that 
what  you  want? 

More  people  depend  on  Mum 

than  on  any  other  deodorant  ...it  works  when  others  fail 


KIND  TO  SKIN  AND  CUOTHE3 


ANOTHER  FINE  PRODUCT 
OF   BRISTOL-MYERS 


WHAT'S  NEW 

{Continued  from  page  7) 


I 


a  youngster  who  wants  to  be  a  great  violin- 
ist. He  almost  does,  until  someone  puts  the 
"bee"  on  him.  Must  be  noted,  too,  that 
there  are  exquisite  violin  passages  in  the 
recording — by  virtuoso  Isaac  Stern. 

Short  Stuif :  Brunette  beauty  Elaine  Mal- 
bin,  who  starred  in  "Kismet,"  stars  Feb. 
10th  on  NBC-TV's  "La  Traviata."  .  .  . 
This  month  Marge  and  Gower  Champion 
take  over  the  Simday  slot  that  belonged 
to  Ann  Sothern.  As  you  watch  Marge 
cavort  gracefully,  you  might  note  that 
just  about  six  weeks  ago  she  gave  birth 
to  a  baby.  Calling  him  Gregg  Ernest.  .  .  . 
Canine  pin-up  queen  Lassie  is  top  dog  in 
TV.  All  rights  to  her  series  sold  for  $3,- 
500,000.  .  .  .  When  radio  singing  star  Jane 
Pickens,  who  doubles  in  high  society, 
threw  a  party  for  the  lorgnette  set,  she 
hired  the  Mello  Dots  to  play  rock  'n'  roll. 

Extra-curricular:  Doug  Parkhirst,  Hugh 
Overton  on  The  Road  Of  Life,  for  several 
years  has  devoted  one  night  a  week  to 
work  with  patients  at  veterans'  hospitals. 
Invalids  are  cast  into  radio  shows  and  the 
plays  are  produced  and  recorded  on  tape. 
"The  acting  is  very  good,"  he  says.  "We 
use  professional  scripts  and  I've  cast  some 
men  in  parts  I've  played.  That's  always  in- 
teresting, to  get  another  interpretation  of 
your  own  part."  Doug,  a  religious  man 
raised  by  his  minister  grandfather,  fre- 
quently uses  scripts  from  the  show,  The 
Greatest  Story  Ever  Told.  "Sometunes 
amusing  things  happen.  There  was  one 
young  man  who  was  never  too  well  be- 
haved. In  one  script  I  cast  him  as  Jesus. 
Not  only  did  he  play  it  well  but  it  im- 
proved his  disposition." 

About  Mary  Stuart's  Baby:  It  was  a  boy, 
Jeffrey,  born  at  eight  poimds,  but  gaimng 
so  rapidly  he  is  almost  as  big  as  his  16- 
month-old  sister,  Cynthia.  Says  Mary,  star 
of  Search  For  Tomorrow,  "We'd  like  to 
have  our  kids  in  platoons.  Two  close  to- 
gether. Then  wait  several  years  and  have 
a  couple  more."  She  adds,  "It  sounds  good, 
anyway."  Her  husband  is  Richard  Krolik, 
CBS  producer,  who  is  her  idea  of  a  per- 
fect husband  and  father  except  f or  liis 
zest  for  candid  photography.  She  says,  '  He 
takes  pictures  of  me  when  I  fall  asleep 
with  the  baby  in  the  rocker,  and  the  way 
I  look,  it's  not  fair."  She  adds,  "Both  my 
babies  like  to  rock  so  we  have  four  rockers 
in  the  apartment."  Every  morning  she's 
up  with  the  babies  at  6  A.M.  She  leaves 
home  at  7:50,  and  from  eight  until  one 
in  the  afternoon  is  at  the  studio.  Most  of 
the  time  she  rushes  right  back  home  with 
her  make-up  still  on.  "I  live  so  close  to 
the  studio  that  I've  been  back  in  the  apart- 
ment sometimes  before  the  closing  com- 
mercial." From  one  P.M.  she  is  wife  and 
mother    again.    Bedtime    is    nine    or    ten. 

DE  &  The  News:  University  of  Alabama 
came  up  with  a  plaque  for  one  of  its  sons, 
Peabody  Award  winner  Doug  Edwards, 
who  completed  ten  years  as  a  TV  news- 
man. Doug,  rather  boyish  looking,  actually 
has  a  wife  and  three  kids.  He  is  at  home 
in  Connecticut  when  he  isn't  nosing  news. 
Sometimes  he  is  picked  up  for  duty  right 
at  his  farm  by  a  CBS  helicopter,  as  was 
the  case  during  the  New  England  floods. 
He  had  a  novel  experience  that  day.  When 
the  plane  chose  to  land  in  Hartford,  it 
picked  a  very  green  and  spacious  lawn. 
The  moment  the  helicopter  touched  groimd 
a  policeman  ran  up  and  gave  Doug  a 
ticket  for  illegal  parking.  He  had  chosen 
the  grounds  of  the  Governor's  mansion. 
{Continued  on  page  13) 


I 

I 

I 
I 


Eddie  and  Debbie 

IN  THEIR    FIRST  MOVIE  TOGETHER! 


Eddie 

sings  6 

wonderful 

NEW 
SONGS 
. . . and 
wait  'til 
you  see 

tiiem 
DANCE! 


RKO  Radio  Pictures  presents 


EDDIE  FiSHER  •  DEBBIE  REYNOLDS 


Co-starring 

ADOLPHE  MENJOU 

TOMMY  NOONAN 

with  NITA  TALBOT  •  UNA  IVIERKEL  •  MELVILLE  COOPER 
BILL  GOODWIN  •  HOWARD  McNEAR 

Produced  by  EDMUND  GRAINGER  .  Screen  Play  by  NORMAN  KRASNA 

ROBERT  CARSON  and  ARTHUR  SHEEKMAN 

Story  by  FELIX  JACKSON  .  Directed  by  NORMAN  TAUROG 

Musical  Numbers  and  Dances  Staged  by  NICK  CAST1.E 

lyrics  by  MACK  GORDON  .  Music  by  JOSEF  MYROW 


HEAR  EDDIE  SING 

"Lullaby  In  Blue" 

'Worry  About  Tomorrow,  Tomorrow" 

"All  About  Love" 

"Some  Day  Soon" 

"I  Never  Felt  This  Way  Before" 


"Bundle  Of  Joy" 

TECHNICOLORS 


RKO 
RADIO 


Zeke's  cheerful— even  at  down.   And  his  telephone  poll— What 
record  would  you  like  to  buy?— is  a  direct  line  to  future  hits. 


Zeke  Manners  wakes  'em  up  over 

SOMEBODY  once  described  Zeke  Manners  as  "a 
fast  Godfrey."  New  Yorkers  may   remember 
him  as  the  man  who  presented  "the  first  Steve 
Allen-type  show  on  television."   Zeke,  who  is 
nobody's  carbon  copy,  departed  New  York  for 
his  native  West  Coast,  when  he  found  big-time 
TV  "too  much  work."  He's  in  our  midst  again,  ^ 
but  still  keeping  farmer's  rather  than  bankers 
hours.  Monday  through  Saturday,  he's  up  m 
time  to  reach  the  WINS  studios  for  The  Zeke  ^ 
Manners  Show,  heard  from  6  to  9:30  A.M.  "I  dont 
sleep  anyway,"  Zeke  shrugs.  ...  To  help  New 
Yorkers  out  of  bed  and  off  to  work  or  school, 
Zeke  provides  music,  chatter,  news,  and  weather- 
casts.  His  auto  audience  belongs  to  the  Bumper 
to  Bumper  Club.  Members  blink  their  lights 
when  Zeke  plays  the  Bumper  to  Bumper  Mambo, 
Samba,   Polka,   etc.     Zeke   is   a   pioneer   of 
electronic  devices,  explains  today's  music  as 
"Crosby  with  more  oomph  and  more  electrifica- 
tion." He  also   credits  the  young  performers 
"who  put  things  in  a  song  that  a  great  songwriter 
wouldn't  dare."   Zeke  polls  his  listeners  to 
determine  tomorrow's  hits,  by  asking  his  hsteners 
what  records  they  would  like  to  buy.  .  .  .  Born 
in  San  Francisco,  Zeke  found  his  first  success 
with  "Zeke  Manners  and  His  Hollywood  Hill- 
billies." He's  worked  his  way  through  the 
broadcasting  alphabet,  local  and  network,  has 
sold  twenty  milHon  records,  and  written  a  dozen 
hit  songs.  His  biggest  hit  was  "Pennsylvania  ^^ 
Polka,"  which  he  wrote  for  "Winged  Victory, 
in  which  he  also  was  starred.  When  the  successful 
show  was  being  transferred  to  film,  Zeke  went 
to  Hollywood.  There,  in  20th  Century-Fox  s 
commissary,  he  met  his  wife  Bea.  "In  the  Army, 
you  had  to  live  in  a  tent  if  you  weren't  married, 
he  recalls.  "So  I  got  married  so  I  could  live  oft 
base— and  I've  been  off  base  ever  since."     .  .  His 
son  Charlie,  at  eleven,  builds  his  own  radios. 
Daughter  Susie,  seven,  is  "a  great  little  hopper. 
She's  a  natural,  as  is  her  dad.  "I  don't  want 
to  entertain  Madison  Avenue,"  says  Zeke.    ^^1 
want  to  entertain  the  people  in  Greenpoint. 


His  career  has  kept  Zeke  shuttling  between  coasts.    On  this 
move,  he  brings  Bea  and  "cowboys"  Charlie  and  Susie  east. 


IMI 


WINS,  Jerry  Warren  keeps  'em  up! 

AT  NIGHT,  the  WINS  signal  wends  its  way  from 
,  New  York  to  points  as  distant  as  Canada, 
Bermuda  Isle  and  Portugal.     On  the  beam  is 
Jerry  Warren,  a  personable  young  man  who  spins 
records,  interviews  guests  and  talks  about  any-  . 
thing  under  the  moon  from  11  P.M.  to  6  A.M., 
the  longest  one-man  stint  on  radio.  "I  just  try 
to  be  a  nice  guy  with  records,"  says  Jerry.  "I 
try  to  make  it  human."   It's  the  universal  element 
Jerry  looks  for,  whether  he's  talking  about  a 
tune  or  asking  frank  questions  and  getting 
similar  answers  from  people  in  show  business  or 
in  the  news.  Scattered  through  the  small  hours 
are  a  number  of  features.  The  horn  blows  at 
midnight.  At  three,  it's  album  time.  At  four,  Jerry 
and  audience  are  "sax  conscious."  At  any  time, 
the  two-way  Celebrity  Telephone  may  ring.  .  .  . 
Producer  and  all-night  emcee,  Jerry's  now  at 
work  on  a  scheme  to  give  away  two  million  dollars 
in  sixty  days.  That's  a  lot  of  zeros  away  from 
the  time  he  was  a  young  boy  in  Philadelphia, 
where  his  widowed  mother  ran  a  restaurant. 
"She  thought  there  was  something  unethical  about 
making  a  profit,"  Jerry  recalls.    Jerry  would 
take  pennies  out  of  the  cash  register  and,  at  the 
end  of  the  month,  when  his  mother  couldn't  meet 
her  bills,  he'd  present  her  with  a  box  of  five 
dollars  in  pennies.  Jerry  went  to  elocution  school, 
made  his  first  appearance  on  stage  in  a  school 
play — but  somewhat  ahead  of  cue.  Everyone 
applauded,  anyway.   "That  was  interesting,"  Jerry 
thought.  He  progressed  to  paid  radio  perform- 
ances for  the  Board  of  Education,  has  worked 
on  radio  and  TV  in  Milwaukee,   Trenton  and 
Philadelphia.  While  on  Philadelphia's  KYW  and 
WPTZ,  he  also  managed  to  co-produce  Broad- 
way plays  with  Canada  Lee,  attend  college  and 
earn  degrees  in  business  administration  and 
electronics,  act  on  network  shows,  and  run  a 
book  business.   "I  had  so  much  time  between 
station  breaks,"  he  grins.  .  .  .  Ciirrently,  Jerry  is 
an  anxious  mother's  ideal  date  for  her  daughter. 
He  brings  her  home  by  10:30,  then  goes  to  work. 
But  only  career  girls  need  apply  to  this  bachelor. 


Dawn  Is  quitting  time.    To  keep  Jerry  from  getting  lonely, 
the  blond  Merrill  sisters,  Ca+hy  Johnson  and  friend  visit. 


Manhattan  sleeps.    But,  says  Jerry,  chic  ones,  cabbies,   night 
workers  or  just  plain  insomniacs  want  "a  nice  guy"  to  talk  to. 


' ill    iiiiiiiii— iTiiirii 

Louis  IS  a  scientist — but  he's  a  showman,  too! 


Louis  Allen,  WMAUs  weatherman, 
must  be  right — he  was  able 
to  predict  television  in  19281 


MS/ 


|3i-tal 
-tl-i^i-rn^n 


As  a  "sideline,"  Louis  plots  the  course  of  ships  around  the  world. 


-    t      / 


12 


Looks  complicated,  but  it's  easy  to  understand 
as  weatherman  Louis  illustrates  with  "woodles." 


IN  THE  LAND  of  television,  five  years  makes  you  a  "veteran,     ten 
years,  an  "oldtimer."     But  few  in  the  realm  of  cameras  and 
kilocycles  can  top  Louis  Allen — who  made  his  video  debut  in  1928! 
Washington's  weatherman  played  a  clarinet  solo  while  an 
electronics  expert  televised  him  via  an  experimental  "shadowgraph 
process.     Louis  scored  another  "first"  in  1949  when  he  pioneered 
in  color  television  and  delivered  his  summaries  and  forecasts 
with  tinted  paper  and  inks.  ...  To  this  seniority,  Louis  adds  a  flair 
for  showmanship  and  an  expert  knowledge  of  the  vagaries  of  the 
weather  gained  at  five  institutions  of  higher  learning.     He  is  now 
seen  forecasting  the  weather  on  WMAL-TV,  daily  at  6:55  P.M. 
and  daily  and  Sunday  at  11: 10  P.M.     He's  heard  on  WMAL  Radio, 
daily  at  5:05  and  6:15  P.M.  .  .  .  Despite  his  degrees,  Louis  is 
never  the  pedantic  professor.  His  terms  are  familiar  and  he  follows 
the  example  of  the  successful  country  preacher  who  advised: 
"You  first  tell  them  what  you're  going  to  tell  them,  then  you  tell 
them,  then  you  tell  them  what  you've  told  them."  To  simplify 
weather  news,  Louis  developed  a  cartoon  presentation  or  "weather 
doodle,"  familiarly  known  as  the  "woodle."  Louis  recalls  only 
one  irate  letter,  this  from  a  man  who  polished  his  car  on  ^  the 
basis  of  Louis'  weather  prediction.     It  rained.  .   .  .  Louis' 
showmanship  stems  from  his  University  of  Maryland  days.     As 
clarinetist  and  saxophonist,  he  led  a  seven-piece  band,  "Luke 
Allen's  Alaskans."     Louis,  who  still  relaxes  with  music,  began  his 
weather  career  more  than  fifteen  years  ago  as  an  airline 
meteorologist.  For  his  work  with  the  Navy  during  and  after  World 
War  II,  he's  being  considered  for  a  Distinguished  Service  Award. 
.  .  .  And  this  rain-or-shine  man  has  one  of  the  most  unusual 
sidelines  of  any  performer.  When  not  delivering  his  twenty-one 
weekly  forecasts,  he's  president  of  Louis  Allen  Associates. 
Together  with  six  other  maritime  and  meteorological  experts,  he 
plots  the  course  of  ships  to  and  from  ports  throughout  the  world — 
using  science  rather  than  age-old  sea  routes.  It's  a  unique  theory 
of  shipping.     But  then  Louis  Allen  is  unique.     One  of  the  few 
professional  meteorologists  in  American  television  and  the  only 
professional  forecaster  on  Washington  TV,  he's  one  of  those  rare 
people  who  don't  just  talk  about  the  weather.     He  does  something! 


WHAT'S  NEW 

(Continued  from  page  8) 


Kidults???  Most  charming  album  of  sea- 
son is  Unique's  LP  of  "Jack  and  the  Bean- 
stalk." So  well  was  the  show  received 
that  the  album  sold  30,000  copies  within  48 
hours  of  the  TV  premiere.  "Beanstalk"  is 
hailed  as  the  first  truly  successful  TV 
musical.  And  here's  further  good  news,  for 
NBC  is  dickering  for  a  repeat  perform- 
ance. ...  In  the  trade  they  call  "Bean- 
stalk" a  "kidult,"  for  it  appeals  to  all  age 
groups.  It  is  interesting  to  note  that  an- 
other smash  success  of  the  season  was 
another  kidult,  Judy  Garland's  film, 
"Wizard  of  Oz."  Letters  poured  into  CBS 
asking  them  to  do  it  again  and  that  is 
assured.  When  the  network  put  up  $400,- 
000,  it  was  paying  for  two  performances, 
and  the  second  is  yet  to  come.  Not  in- 
cidental to  the  subject  is  the  M-G-M  LP 
of  the  soundtrack  starring  Judy  Garland. 

Beat*  the.  Rap ...  or  the  Clock?  Stam- 
ford, Conn,  policeman  Alfred  Ottanio  won 
himself  $11,000  on  Beat  The  Clock.  Ac- 
cording to  Patrolman  Ottanio,  it  was  the 
equivalent  of  three-years'  salary  and  he 
was  very,  very  happy.  But,  according  to 
Mr.  Ottanio's  boss,  the  Chief  of  Police  of 
Stamford,  it  wasn't  exactly  a  pleasant 
situation.  He  claimed  that  Mr.  Ottanio 
had  excused  himself  from  duty  Saturday 
pleading  illness,  then  had  gone  down  to 
New  York  to  be  a  contestant  on  Beat 
The  Clock.  The  Chief,  hep  to  the  vernac- 
ular, wisecracked,  "Did  the  guy  expect 
to  be  on  a  closed  circuit?"  Mr.  Ottanio 
handed  in  his  resignation  and  made  plans 
to  move  wife  and  child  to  Florida  and  go 
into  the  contracting  business. 

Incredible  Woman:  Actress  Virginia 
Payne,  who  plays  title  role  in  Ma  Perkins, 
hasn't  missed  a  show  in  23  years  (over 
6,000  scripts),  in  spite  of  accidents,  storms 
and  erratic  time-pieces.  Once  she  broke  an 
ankle  on  way  to  studio.  She  had  it  taped 
and  went  on  to  work.  She  was  flying  back 
from  Maine  on  a  Sunday  when  a  storm 
grounded  her  plane  in  Massachusetts.  By 
combination  of  bus,  streetcar,  train,  and 
cab,  she  got  to  the  New  York  studio  Mon- 
day morning.  Virginia  lives  in  a  New  York 
apartment  but  has  been  building  herself  a 
home  in  Ogunquit,  Maine.  As  Virginia 
Payne,  she  astoimded  contractors  with  her 
knowledge  of  lumber,  but  explained,  "As 
Ma  Perkins,  I've  been  running  a  lumber 
yard  for  23  years."  In  Ogunquit,  no  one 
refers  to  her  as  Miss  Payne.  Hers  is  "the 
house  where  Ma  Perkins  lives." 

Guys  &  Gals;  Edie  Adams,  smash  success 
in  Broadway  musical  "Li'l  Abner,"  ne- 
gotiating three-year  contract  with  NBC. 
Her  spouse  is  comic  Ernie  Kovacs. . .  Claire 
Bloom  stars  on  NBC-TV,  on  March  4th, 
in  Old  Vic  presentation  of  "Romeo  and 
Juliet."  .  .  .  Two  days  later,  Maurice 
Chevalier  in  Teiescope  of  Paris.  .  .  .  New 
starter  this  month  Mr.  Adam  And  Eve, 
starring  husband-wife  Howard  Duff  and 
Ida  Lupino.  Comedy  about  public  and 
private  lives  of  Hollywood  stars.  Duffs  are 
working  under  name  of  Bridget  Produc- 
tions, in  honor  of  their  four-year-old. 
Bridget's  profile,  silhouetted,  is  their  trade- 
mark  Forty  percent  of  all  pop  rec- 
ords sold  is  country  music  and  accounts 
for  the  big  play  given  the  DeeJay  Country 
Music  Convention  in  Nashville.  The  hoe- 
down  was  officially  teed-ofE  with  the  as- 
sistance of  Grand  Ole  Opry's  comedienne, 
Minnie  Pearl.  Minnie,  funny  to  the  bone, 
commenting  on  her  age,  said,  "Ahm  in  my 
early  flirties— young  'nuff  to  wink  at  fellers 
but  too  old  to  have  'em  wink  back." 


New  sunshine  yellow 

shampoo 

puts  sunny 
sparkle  in  hair! 


.>> 


silkier. . .  softer. . .  easier  to  manage 


Brunette?  Blonde?  Redhead? 
You'll  thrill  when  you  see  how  your 
hair  responds  to  the  conditioning 
benefits  of  new  shampoo  plus  egg  ! 
It's  just  what  your  hair  needs — for 
new  life  and  luster,  for  rich  silky 
softness.  You'll  love  the  "feel"  of 
your  hair — the  way  it  manages. 

That's  the  magic  conditioning  touch 
of  SHAMPOO  PLUS  egg!  This  new 
kind  of  shampoo  cleans  cleaner, 
rinses  super  fast.  It's  the  one  really 
different  shampoo  .  .  .  from  its  sun- 
shine yellow  color  to  the  lilting 
sunny  sparkle  it  puts  in  your  hair! 
Try  it  once,  you'll  use  it  always. 

Economical  29c,  59c,  $1. 


shampoo 

plus  egg" 


lrad«         oiMk 


13 


The  emotions  of  parenthood  inspire  Debbie  and  Eddie  as  they  care  for  -their"  baby 


TV; 


RADIO 
MIRROR 


«H 


TV  favorites  on 

your  theater  screen 

By  JANET  GRAVES 
Bundle  of  Joy 

EK.O,  TECHNICOLOR 

As  a  TV  guest,  Debbie  Reynolds  has  teamed 
on  occasion  with  spouse  Eddie  Fisher.  But 
this  is  the  first  time  that  the  parents  of 
Carrie  Frances  Fisher  have  been  full-fledged 
co-stars.  Ironically,  the  two  are  here  par- 
ents only  by  mistaken  identity.  As  a  humble 
department-store  employee,  Debbie  gets  stuck 
with  a  foundling.  She's  assumed  to  be  the 
little  charmer's  mother,  and  when  the  boss's 
son  (Eddie)  takes  an  interest  in  her  "sad" 
case,  he's  tabbed  as  father.  It  sounds  risque, 
but  it's  innocent  family  fun,  with  songs. 

Baby  Doll 

WARNERS 

Latest  of  the  TV-trained  personalities  to  hit 

Hollywood's  screens  is  the   sensational   Car- 

J    roll  Baker.  The   delicate-featured  blonde   is 

R    cast   as   a    Southern   child-bride   who    keeps 

husband   Karl   Maiden   at   arm's   length.   As 

a  fiery  business  rival,   Eli  Wallach   invades 

14 


the  household.  Also  familiar  to  fans  of  TV 
drama,  Mildred  Dunnock  is  a  pathetic  maid- 
en aunt.  Frank  sex  interludes  put  this  in  the 
not-for-kiddies  category. 

Hollywood  or  Bust 

PARAMOUNT,  WALLIS ;  VISTAVISION,  TECHNI- 
COLOR 

Filmed  just  before  the  Martin-Lewis  team 
agreed  on  a  professional  divorce,  this  slap- 
happy  comedy  sends  the  pair  on  a  gay  jaunt 
cross-country.  Fan  Jerry  and  gambler  Dean 
have  won  a  car  in  a  movie-theater  drawing. 
While  Dean  flees  racketeers,  Jerry  yearns  to 
meet  his  idol,  Anita  Ekberg  (complete  with 
all  the  charms  of  the  title).  Dancer  Pat 
Crowley  joins  the  junket. 

Love  Me  Tender 

20tH,  CINEMASCOPE 

Presley  fans  have  to  be  patient,  but  action 
fans  will  be  satisfied  with  the  outset  of  this 
post-Civil  War  yarn,  as  Dick  Egan  knocks 
off  a  Union  payroll.  Then  he  comes  home 
to  find  girlfriend  Debra  Paget  married  to 
his  kid  brother.  That's  Elvis,  who  promptly 
goes  into  a  country-style  number,  "We're 
Gonna  Move."  Between  his  dramatic  chores 
(which  he  performs  in  fairly  neat  style  for 
an  acting  greenhorn),  Elvis  also  does  dreamy 
ballads,  gusty  rock  'n'  roll.   (In  1865??) 


At  Your  Neighborhood  Theaters 

The  Ten  Commandments  (Paramount; 
Vista  Vision,  Technicolor)  :  Pioneer  in  the 
TV-to-Hollywood  trek,  Charlton  Heston 
makes  a  splendid  Moses  in  DeMille's  vast 
epic,  with  Yul  Brynner  as  Pharaoh,  all-star 
cast,  spectacular  camera  effects. 

Giant  (Warners,  WarnerColor)  :  As  a 
hearty  Texas  rancher  and  his  gently-bred 
bride.  Rock  Hudson  and  Liz  Taylor  get  fine 
support  from  TV  trainees— James  Dean,  Car- 
roll Baker,  Dennis  Hopper,  Sal  Mineo— and 
radio-TV  vet  Mercedes  McCambridge. 

Westward  Ho  the  Wagons!  (Buena  Vista; 
Cinemascope,  Technicolor):  Fresh  and  ap- 
pealing adventure  yarn,  produced  by  Disney, 
teams  Fess  Parker  with  TV  adversary  Jeff 
York,  as  scouts  leading  a  wagon  train  through 
Indian  country. 

Public  Pigeon  No.  1  (RKO,  Technicolor) : 
In  a  film  version  of  a  Climax!  play.  Red  Skel- 
ton's  an  innocent  lad  victimized  by  swindlers. 
Janet  Blair  gives  him  more  gentle  nagging 
than  Sid  Caesar  gets  from  her.  Affable  farce. 

Reprisal!  (Columbia,  Technicolor):  Half- 
Indian  himself  in  this  earnest  Western,  Guy 
Madison's  slow  in  opposing  prejudice.  Once 
he  gets  going  .  .  .    ! 


PRINTED  PATTERN 


Showing  this  month 


BEDTIME  STORY  (Columbia):  Gay 
marital  comedy  presents  Loretta  Young  as 
an  actress  eager  to  retire.  As  her  play- 
wright husband,  Fredric  March  tries  to 
thwart   her.   With   the   late   Bob    Benchley. 

BIG  STREET,  THE  (RKO)  :  Lucille  Ball 
does  an  excellent  dramatic  job  in  the 
Damon  Runyon  story  of  a  gangster's  ex- 
sweetie,  crippled,  yet  rebuffing  the  friend- 
ship of  bus-boy  Henry  Fonda. 

CRY  THE  BELOVED  COUNTRY 

(U.A.)  Strong  story  of  tragic  South  Africa, 
shot  there.  Two  Negro  ministers  (Sidney 
Poitier,  the  late  Canada  Lee)  seek  the  old- 
er man's  slum-corrupted  son. 

FLIGHT  FOR  FREEDOM  (RKO):  In 
an  air-action  story  inspired  by  the  mysteri- 
ous disappearance  of  lady  flyer  Amelia 
Earhart,  Roz  Russell  risks  her  life  for  her 
country,  sacrificing  romance  with  Fred 
MacMurray. 

GARDEN  OF  ALLAH,  THE  (U.A): 
Colorful,  old-style  love  story  of  the  desert, 
teaming  Marlene  Dietrich  with  Charles 
Boyer,  as  a  renegade  monk. 

GUILT  OF  JANET  AMES,  THE  (Co- 
lumbia)  :  As  Melvyn  Douglas  helps  war 
widow  Rosalind  Russell  get  rid  of  her 
neuroses,  Sid  Caesar  snaps  up  the  movie 
.    by  spoofing  psychiatrists. 

INTERMEZZO  (U.A.)  :  Touching  ro- 
mance-with-music  stars  the  young  Ingrid 
Bergman  and  the  late  Leslie  Howard,  as 
a  pianist  and  a  violinist,  whose  illicit  love 
is  brief. 

KING  KONG  (RKO):  Return  engage- 
ment of  the  colossal  gorilla  that  looms 
among  New  York  skyscrapers  and  snatches 
Fay  Wray.  With  Robert  Armstrong. 

MURDER,  MY  SWEET  (RKO):  Fast, 
tough  whodunit  casts  Dick  Powell  as  pri- 
vate eye  seeking  a  stolen  necklace  and  a 
missing  night-club  doll.  With  Claire  Trevor 
Mike  Mazurki. 

ONCE  UPON  A  HONEYMOON  (RKO) : 
Deft  comedy-drama  set  in  Europe  of  1938 
finds  reporter  Cary  Grant  rescuing  Ginger 
Rogers  from  husband  Walter  Slezak,  secret- 
ly a  Nazi. 

PORTRAIT  OF  JENNIE  (Selznick)  :  In 
a  delicate  fantasy,  painter  Joseph  Gotten 
falls  m  love  with  Jennifer  Jones,  slowly 
realizing  she's  a  ghost.  Ethel  Barrymore's 
a  kindly  art  dealer. 

SISTER  KENNY  (RKO)  :  Rosalind  Rus- 
sell  portrays  the  heroic  Australian  nurse 
who  had  to  fight  for  recognition  of  her 
anti-polio  technique.  With  Alexander  Knox 
Dean  Jagger.  ' 

SPIRAL    STAIRCASE,    THE     (RKO) 
Splendidly  photographed,  well-acted  thrill- 
er.   Servant   to    Ethel    Barrymore,    Dorothy 
IMcGuire  is  a  mute  who  solves  a  mystery  in- 
voMng  Rhonda  Fleming. 


PRINTED  PATTERN 


9056 

SIZES 
T4'/2— 24'/2 


New  Patterns; 
for  You 


4671 — This  princess  dress  is  wonderful 
sewing — it's  our  new  "printed  pattern"!  Its 
lines  are  soft,  simple — adapt  to  many  dif- 
ferent fabrics,  occasions!  Misses'  Sizes  12- 
20;  40.  Size  16  takes  414  yards  39-inch.  State 
size.  35^ 

9056— You'll  love  the  soft  flattery  of  this 
dress,  designed  especially  for  the  shorter, 
fuller  figure.  Half  Sizes  141/2-241/2.  Size  16 1/2 
takes  41/4  yards  35-inch.  State  size.  350 

9038 — Our  new  "printed  pattern"  makes 
sewing  this  blouse  trio  a  cinch.  Make  a 
wardrobe  of  fashions  from  one  pattern. 
Misses'  Sizes  10-20.  Size  16  upper  version, 
1%  yards  35-inch;  middle  version,  I'/g 
yards;  lower,  2  yards.  State  size.  35(/' 


Send  thirty-five  cents  (in  coins)  for  each  pattern  to: 
TV  Radio  Mirror,  Pattern  Department,  P.O.  Box  137, 
Old  Chelsea  Station,  New  York  11,  New  York.  Add 
five  cents  for  each  pattern  for  first-class  mailing.  Be 
sure  to  state  pattern  number  and  size  when  ordering. 


15 


information  bootii 


The  World's  His  Beat 

How  about  a  story  on  NBC-TV  com- 
mentator Chet  Huntley? 

Mr.  S.  and  Sons,   Cleveland,  Ohio 

For  Chet  Huntley,  it  was  long  a  toss-up 
between  medicine  and  speech,  but  the 
many  readers  of  TV  Radio  Mirror  who 
have  written  in  to  praise  this  popular  guy 
know  quite  well  what  he  finally  chose. 
.  .  .  Chet  was  raised  on  a  Montana  ranch 
and,  while  still  aspiring  to  be  a  medico, 
won  several  state  public-speaking  contests. 
There  followed  three  years  of  pre-med 
work  at  Montana  State  College,  but  a 
subsequent  win  in  a  National  Oratory 
Contest  settled  the  matter  once  and  for 
all.  Chet  was  awarded  a  scholarship  to 
Seattle's  Cornish  School  of  Art,  later  re- 
ceived his  bachelor's  degree  from  Wash- 
ington University.  .  .  .  Chet's  first  radio 
job  consisted  of  reading  local  newspaper 
items,  and  he  later  did  radio  news  work 
in  Spokane  and  Portland,  before  moving 
to  Los  Angeles  in  1939.  There,  the  hand- 
some six-footer  amassed  a  huge  following 
of  loyal  admirers,  who  vigorously  ap- 
plauded his  intelligent  news  commentary 
and  easy  delivery.  Critics  agreed,  and 
Chet  has  been  the  recipient  of  several  hon- 
ors, among  them  two  highly-cherished 
Peabody  Awards  for  "courageous  and 
thoughtful  radio  journalism  plus  a  crafts- 
man's knowledge  of  the  medium."  Chet's 
transfer  to  New  York  occurred  las  Spring, 
when  NBC-TV  signed  him  to  a  long-term 
contract.  His  choice  assignments  have  in- 
cluded an  anchor-man  role  in  NBC-TV's 
convention  and  election  coverage  last  year. 
.  .  .  Chet  is  co-editor,  with  Dave  Brinkley, 
of  NBC-TV  News,  seen  each  evening,  and 
is  editor  of  the  much-praised  Outlook,  a 
news-in-depth  show  seen  Sundays.  In  pri- 
vate life,  Chet  is  a  shutterbug,  and  col- 
lects books  for  a  Manhattan  apartment, 
wherein  he  resides  with  a  charming  wife, 
Ingrid,  and  two  lovely  teen-age  daughters, 
Leanne  and  Sharon. 


16 


Chet  Huntley- 


Mary  Patton 


Face  Is  Familiar   .   .   . 

fFhat  information  do  you  have  on  Mary 
Patton,  who  played  in  Search  For  To- 
morrow? 

E.  A.,  Palos  Verdes,  Calif. 

Versatile  Mary  Patton  is  a  firm  believer 
in  not  confining  herself  to  any  one  me- 
dium of  show  business — and  she  has 
plenty  of  credits  to  prove  it.  Since  her 
1937  debut  in  a  road  company  of  "You 
Can't  Take  It  With  You,"  the  brown- 
haired,  blue-eyed  charmer  has  appeared 
in  over  forty  feature  roles  on  TV,  radio, 
the  stage  and  in  films.  .  .  .  Mary,  the 
daughter  of  a  traveling  doctor,  was  edu- 
cated in  several  Eastern  and  Southern 
schools,  and  trained  for  the  drama  at 
New  York's  Neighborhood  Playhouse. 
Since  Mary  plays  a  wide  variety  of  parts, 
her  appearance  sometimes  provokes  a 
"she's-so-f  amiliar-what's-her-name"  r  e  a  c  - 
tion.  But  if  her  name  doesn't  always  ring 
a  bell,  her  performances  most  assuredly 
do.  Recently,  Mary  was  appearing  as  the 
home-wrecking  villainess.  Hazel  Tate, 
in  Search  For  Tomorrow.  During  this 
time,  Mary  was  out,  as  she  puts  it,  "fight- 
ing the  battle  of  the  A  &  P."  "I  hate  you!" 
hissed  a  righteous  feminine  voice.  "How 
could  you  be  so  evil?"  Mary's  mother  had 
similar  misgivings  about  Hazel,  and  final- 
ly called  her  daughter  and  questioned  the 
wisdom  of  playing  such  a  horrid  woman. 
"Mother,  don't  be  upset,"  soothed  Mary. 
"I'm  being  murdered  next  week."  "Oh, 
fine!"  exclaimed  her  much-relieved  par- 
ent. .  .  .  Mary's  household  consists  of 
husband  Warren  Parker,  himself  an  emi- 
nent TV-radio  actor,  and  a  cute  little 
armful  of  poodle  named  "Tony."  The 
Parkers  and  pet  live  in  a  charming  apart- 
ment on  New  York  City's  East  Side. 
Lately,  Mary  has  been  busy  demonstrating 
for  various  sponsors  on  cross-country  in- 
dustrial tours.  It's  just  another  side  to  an 
amazing,  many-faceted  personality. 


From  Owl  To  Hero 

Could  you  please  tell  me  something 
about  John  Lupton  of  ABC-TV's  Broken 
Arrow? 

/.  S.,  Maiden,  Mass. 

The  Broken  Arrow  half -hour  television 
series  had  been  in  the  planning  stages  for 
some  time,  but  studio  executives  were 
stumped.  Who  would  they  cast  in  the  lead- 
ing role  of  Tom  Jeffords,  Indian  agent? 
When  John  Lupton  undertook  that  role  in 
a  full-hour  TV  version  of  the  film,  their 
worries  were  over.  For  John,  it  was  the 
happy  result  of  hopes  and  plans  that  be- 
gan back  in  Illinois.  .  .  .  John  was  born 
there  on  August  22,  1926.  While  other 
boys  talked  about  being  doctors,  cowboys, 
or  sailors,  John  set  his  sights  firmly  on 
one  goal:  Acting.  He  packed  in  all  the 
experience  he  could  in  high  school  and 
summer  stock.  John  joined  Edwin  Straw- 
bridge's  Lyric  Theater,  and  toured  in 
children's  shows  for  two  years.  "I  drove 
a  truck,  moved  scenery  and  impersonated 
an  owl  and  a  pussy  cat,"  he  recalls.  His 
Broadway  debut  was  a  role  in  Mae  West's 
"Diamond  Lil,"  followed  by  an  appear- 
ance in  the  Katharine  Hepburn  production 
of  "As  You  Like  It."  When  this  show 
went  on  tour,  movie  scouts  spotted  John, 
and  he  was  signed  to  a  contract.  Minor 
parts  were  his  lot,  until  Warner  Bros, 
cast  him  as  the  sensitive  marine  in  "Battle 
Cry,"  and  John  clicked  in  a  big  way. 
Shortly  afterwards,  he  did  a  complete 
switch  as  "The  Mojave  Kid,"  a  cold- 
hearted  gun-slinger,  on  Climax!  Both 
qualities — sensitivity  and  manly  determina- 
tion— fuse  nicely  in  his  current  assign- 
ment. .  .  .  The  versatile  young  actor  likes 
swimming  and  tennis,  lists  sculpture  as  his 
favorite  hobby.  In  films,  he  recently  wooed 
Margaret  O'Brien  in  "Glory,"  and  cur- 
rently supports  former-roommate  Fess 
Parker  in  "The  Great  Locomotive  Chase." 
Wedding  bells  rang  last  spring  for  John 
and  the  former  Anne  Sills  ©f  Chicago. 


I 


John  Lupton 


Calling  All  Fans 

The  following  fan  clubs  invite  new 
members.  If  you  are  interested,  write  to 
address  given — not  to  TV  Radio  Mirror. 

Mouseketeers  Fan  Club,  c/o  Carol  Moss, 
4645  Dyer  St.,  La  Crescenta.  Calif. 

Elvis  Presley  Fan  Club,  Box  94,  Holly- 
wood, Calif. 

Pat  Boone  Fan  Club,  c/o  Gloria  Ballen- 
tine,  7214  Newport  Ave.,  Norfolk  5,  Va. 

War  Of  The  Sexes 

Would  you  tell  me  about  Johnny  Wash- 
brook,  who  plays  Ken  McLaughlin,  on 
CBS-TV's  My  Friend  Flicka? 

/.  R.,  Oklahoma  City,  Okla. 

Twelve-year-old     Johnny     Washbrook's 
easy  way  with  a  horse  in  the  Flicka  series 
is  a  result  of  what  may  be  called,  "The  War 
Between  the  Sexes — Part  I."  Due  to  size, 
coloring     and     other     factors,     Johnny's 
stand-in  happens  to  be  a  girl.  When  Cana- 
dian-born   Johnny    first    signed    for    the 
series,    his    equine    experience    was    nil — 
but  the  presence  of  an  expert  girl  rider 
soon  changed  that.    Today,  Johnny  is  an 
excellent  horseman — the  result  of  a  natu- 
ral male  desire  to  outpoint  the  opposite 
sex,   but  also  a  tribute  to  a   professional 
attitude  that  first  showed  itself  five  years 
ago.    .    .    .    Johnny   had   accompanied   his 
brother,  Donald,  to  a  TV  audition  in  To- 
ronto,  and,  though  Donald   got  the  part, 
the   producer   remembered   Johnny.   Soon, 
two    Washbrooks    were    working    on    TV. 
But  it  failed  to  convince  Dorothy  Wash- 
brook  that  acting  was  for  her  son  Johnny. 
Until  one  memorable  summer  evening.  .  .  . 
Both  Donald  and  Johnny  were  appearing 
in   "Life  With  Father,"  and   mother  had 
even  been  drafted  to  play  the  maid   (her 
first  theatrical  appearance).    On  this  par- 
ticular occasion,  Johnny  made  his  entrance 
two  minutes  late.    Mother  says.  "I  asked 
later    if    he    wasn't    frightened    when    he 
found  the  curtain  up  and  himself  in  the 
wings,  and  he  said,  'No,  I  just  figured  the 
boy  might  be  upstairs  or  something  and 
might  just  come  down  after  all  the  others 
were  in  the  room.'  I  thought  if  he  had 
all  that  presence  at  that  age.  then  there 
wasn't^  much    doubt    about    his    being   an 
actor."  .  .  .  Johnny's  American  TV  bow 
was  made  in  April  of  1955,  after  which 
20th    Century-Fox    executives    tested    him 
for  the  role  of  Ken  McLaughlin.    He  not 
only  got  the  part,  but   a  motion   picture 
contract  in  the  bargain.  .  .  .  Off-camera, 
he  swims,  rides,  tap  dances  and  sings  "a 
little."    He    lists    Randolph    Scott.    Roy 
Rogers    and    Audie    Murphy    ("when    he 
does  Westerns")  as  his  favorite  actors.  No 
favorite  actresses  for  Johnny — yet. 


FOR  YOUR  INFORMATION— If  there's 
something  you  want  to  know  about  radio 
and  television,  write  to  Information  Booth 
TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East  42nd  St.,  New 
York  17,  N.  Y.  We'll  answer,  if  we  can, 
provided  your  question  is  of  general  inter- 
est. Answers  will  appear  in  this  column — 
but  be  sure  to  attach  this  box  to  your 
letter,  and  specify  whether  your  question 
concerns  radio  or  TV. 


l/^ho'd  bel/ei/e  /  N^9  euer 
eivbdff^Qsecf  by  PiMpleQl^^ 


New!  Clearasil  Medication 

STARVES  PIMPIES 

SKIN-COLORED . . .  hides  pimples  while  it  works 


At  last!  Science  discovers  a  new-type 
medication  especially  for  pimples,  that 
really  works.  In  skin  specialists'  tests 
on  202  patients,  9  out  of  every  10  cases 
were  completely  cleared  up  or  definitely 
improved  while  using  clearasil. 

CLEARASIL  WORKS  FAST 
TO  MAKE   PIMPLES  DISAPPEAR 


1.   PENETRATES   PIMPLES   .    .    . 

keratolytic  action  softens  and 
dissolves  affected  skin  tissue, 
lets  medication  penetrate 
down  into  any  infected  area. 

2.  ISOLATES  PIMPLES  .  .  .  anti- 
Septic  action  of  this  new-type 
medication  stops  growth  of 
bacteria  that  can  cause  and 
spread  pimples. 

3.  'starves'  pimples  . , . 
clearasil' s  famous  dry-up 
action  'starves'  pimples  be- 
cause it  helps  to  remove  the 
oils  that  pimples  'feed'  on. 


-tV-t^ 


Skin-colored  clearasil  hides  pimples  as  it 
works,  ends  embarrassment  instantly. 
Greaseless,  stainless,  pleasant  to  leave  on 
day  and  night.for  uninterruptedmedication. 

Skin  creams  can  'feed'  pimples 
Clearasil  'starves'  them 

Oil  in  pores  helps  pimples  grow  and  thrive. 
So  oily  skin  creams  can  actually  'feed' 
pimples.  Only  an  oil-absorbing  medication 
. . .  clearasil,  helps  dry  up  this  oil,  'starves' 
pimples. 

'floats  out'  blackheads:  clearash's 
penetrating  medical  action  softens  and 
loosens  blackheads  from  underneath,  so  they 
'float  out'  with  normal  washing.  So  why  suffer 
the  misery  of  pimples  or  blackheads!  cleak- 
ASIL  is  guaranteed  to  work  for  you,  as  in 
doctors'  tests,  or  money  back.  Only  69^  at 
all  drug  counters  (economy  size  98^). 

SPECIAL  OFFER:  Send  name,  address  and  1» 
in  coin  or  stamps  for  generous  trial  size  to  Eastco 

Inc.,    Box    120C,    White    Plains,    N.    Y.    Offer 

expires  March  15,  195". 


Largest-Selling  Pimple 
Medication  in  America 

(including  Canada) 


17 


FRIENDS    IN    DEED 

Good  neighbors  form  a  volunteer  army  for 
the  National  Fund  for  Muscular  Dystrophy 


A  HUGE  ARMY  of  volunteeis  marched  from 
door  to  door  recently,  asking  for  help  m 
the  fight  against  muscular  dystrophy.   This 
is  a  disease  which  wastes  bodies  and  lives. 
Mostly,  it  attacks  children,  but  it  can  strike 
anyone  from  a  babe  of  one  year  to  an  adult 
of  seventy.  Its  effect  is  a  crippling  and  relentless 
physical  deterioration.  There  is  no  cure— yet. 
But  there  is  hope.    Your  help,  said  the 
neighbors-on-the-march,  is  the  key  to  the 
cure.    Your  dollars,  they   added,  wiU  provide 
medical  research,  technical  education,  direct 
patient  service,  therapy,  and  public  information. 
This  volunteer  army,  The  Neighbors  Fund 
for  the  National  Foundation  for  Muscular 
Dystrophy,  was  backed  by  a  Star  Campaign 
Committee.    Garry  Moore   served   as  National 
Honorary  Chairman,  with  Steve  Allen,  Lee 
Ann  Meriwether,  Jayne  Meadows,  Bill  Cullen, 
Henry  Morgan  and  Mary  Healy  representing 
the  world  of  radio  and  television,  and  with 
Ann  Higginbotham,  Editorial  Director  of 
TV  Radio  Mirror  and  Photoplay,  representing 
the  magazine  world.     The  Fund  set  out  to  raise 
$250,000,  and,  said  Hon.  Paul  G.  DeMuro, 
NFMD's  National  President,  "It  must  be 
done."  The  goal  was  met,  but  there  is  still  much 
to  be  done.    It  is  estimated  that  muscular 
dystrophy  has  presently  victimized  more 
than  100,000  men,  women  and  children  in  the 
United  States,  and  more  than  65,000  of  these 
are  children.  If  you  weren't  able  to  give  all  you 
would   have   liked   when   your   neighbor 
called — or  if  you  were  not  at  home — you 
can  still  mail  contributions  to:   National  Foun- 
dation for  Muscular  Dystrophy,  250  West  57th 
Street  New  York  19,  N.  Y.  Be  a  friend  in  deed. 


Celebrities  joined  the   neighbors  army.    Editor  Ann   Higginbotham 
went  on  TV  with  plaque  for  Garry  Moore,  Star  Committee  chairman. 


Atlantic  Chapter,  Far  Rockaway,  L.  I. 
Bergen  County  Chapter,  New  Jersey 
Massachusetts  Division,  Boston,  Moss. 


NEIGHBORS  FUND  FOR  NATIONAL  FUND  FOR  MUSCULAR  DYSTROPHY 

Appreciation    Awards 
GRAND  PRIZE       •       MINK  COAT 
One  Second   Prize  for  each  of  the  nine  Eastern    Region  Chapters   participating   as  follows- 
Bronx  Chapter,    Bronx,    N.  Y. 
Brooklyn   Division,    Brooklyn,    N.Y. 
Gotham  Chapter,  New  York,  N.  Y. 


Middlesex  Chapter,  New 
Nassau-Suffolk  Chapter, 
Queens  County  Chapter, 


Jersey 
Long  Island 
Long  Island 


18 


Second  Prizes  for  the  above  chapters:  Four 
fashion  originals,  costume  jewelry,  luggage, 
all-expense  paid  Florida  vacations,  Arthur 
Murray  dance  lessons.  Singer  sewing  ma- 
chines, television  sets. 

In  addition,  there  ore  forty  assorted  Appreciation  Awards 
for  distinguished  volunteer  work.  All  prizes  were  donated  by 
manufacturers  for  award  to  the  12,000  good  neighbor  vol- 
unteers who  participated  in  the  Neighbors  Fund  campaign  to 
receive  contributions  from  250,000  neighbors  anxious  to  help 
find  the  cause,  treatment  and  cure  for  muscular  dystrophy. 


NEW  DESIGJVS  FOR  LIVING 


7323 

826 — It's  "sew-easy"  to  make  this  pretty 
maternity  top.  Make  several  in  cool  cot- 
tons. Trim  the  scoop  neckline  with  gay 
embroidery.  Maternity  Misses'  Sizes  10- 
12,  14-16,  included.  Pattern,  transfer, 
easy  directions.  25^ 

7323 — Swedish  weaving  is  a  delightful 
handiwork  and  easy  to  do!  Use  these 
designs  on  aprons,  towels,  bibs,  dress 
accessories.  Three  different  designs  in- 
cluded. Charts  show  every  detail,  direc- 
tions. Make  wide  or  narrow  band.  25^ 

801— Two  pretty  ways  she  can  wear  this 
style !  A  cute  pinafore — or  a  party  dress, 
with  the  addition  of  the  separate  collar. 
Child's  Sizes  2,  4,  6,  8  included.  Pattern, 
embroidery    transfer,    directions.    25t 

581 — Elegant  centerpiece  for  your  din- 
ing table — a  graceful  swan  crocheted  in 
pineapple  design.  Fill  it  with  fruit  or 
flowers.  Crochet  directions,  body  about 
12  X  6y2  inches.  Use  heavy  jiffy  cotton- 
starch  stiflSy.  25  c* 

771— Forty-eight  colorful  birds— each 
nestling  against  its  own  state  flower. 
Easy  to  embroider  on  a  cozy  quilt.  Pat- 
tern includes  diagrams,  transfers  of  all 
48  state  birds  and  flowers.  Quilt  72  x  102 
inches.  25^ 

7179 — It  takes  less  than  a  day  to  crochet 
each  of  these  pretty  little  doilies  for 
your  own  home  or  for  gifts.  Three  dif- 
ferent crochet  designs  (8-inch  square.  8- 
inch  round,  7^4  x  14-inch  oval,  in  No. 
50  mere,  cotton,  larger  in  string.)    25ft 

788 — Graceful  flower  design  in  filet 
crochet — a  lovely  decoration  and  a  pro- 
tection for  furniture.  Use  it  as  a  chair- 
set,  bu£Fet  cover.  Chair-back  13  x  16 
inches,  armrest  6  x  12  inches,  in  No.  50 
mercerized  cotton.  Chart,  directions.  25^ 


s^^srr/!^rv-r^3i"t'r?irs':j:r^^^^^^^ 


19 


Any  resemblance  between  gagster  Jinn  (left)  and  straight-nnan  Bill  Is  hilarious! 


Bill  and  Jim  Stanley, 
WICH's  morning  laugh  team, 
are  as  different 
as  two  brothers  can  be 


20 


_      kLiKE   as   brothers?    For   Bill 
and   Jim   Stanley,   the  family  re- 
semblance is  strictly  for  laughs — 
and  ad-libbed  at  that.    These  two 
Norwich  natives  team  on  the  Bill 
And    Jim    Show,    heard    weekday 
mornings  from  6  to  8:40  on  Sta- 
tion    WICH.     Bill's     the     straight 
man,  Jim's  the  gag  man.     Each  is 
a  foil  for  the  other  on  a  show  of 
news,      weather,      music,      ad-lib 
chatter,    impromptu    features    and 
take-offs    on    sponsors    and    local 
big-wigs.    They've  a  cast  of  thou- 
sands of  imaginary  guest  charac- 
ters. Most  notable  is  "Aunt  Clara," 
the  sweet  old  gal  who  pedaled  a 
bicycle     around     town     in     gym 
sneakers.   .   .   .   Bill  is  twenty-six 
and,  as  Jim,  twenty -two,  says,  "He 
gets    the    ulcers    while   I    get   the 
laughs."     Bill  claims  the  ulcer  is 
healed,   but   Jim   insists   that   Bill 
simply  retouched  the  X-ray  nega- 
tive.    Bill's  the  family  man,  with 
a  wife.   Peg,   and   a   one-year-old 
son.   Bill,   Jr.      He   leads   a    quiet 
home  life,  the  only  battle  being  a 
perennial    one    to    grow    a    lawn 
around    his    five-room    house    on 
Newton  Street.    He  has  a  reputa- 
tion as  one  of  the  best  photogra- 
phers in  the  area  and  has  done 
considerable   free-lance   work   for 
local  and  New  York  papers.     Off 
the  air  and  out  of  the  darkroom, 
Bill  may  be  tracking  down  a  pro- 
spective buyer  of  radio  time.  .  .  . 
Jim,  who  has  been  considered  the 
"laugh  man"   of  his  crowd   since 
schooldays,  lives  with  their  moth- 
er, Myrtle,  "our  best  fan  and  big- 
gest    critic."     An     eligible     but 
elusive  bachelor,  Jim  centers  his 
off-the-air  time  on  show  business. 
Sundays,  he  conducts  a  hi-fi  con- 
cert at  the  Lighthouse  Inn  in  New 
London  and  at  other  times  he  can 
be    found    emceeing    programs    at 
local  night  clubs  and  resorts,  at- 
tending jazz   concerts,   and   acting 
as  lifeguard  at  Norwich's  Mohegan 
Park.  .  .  .  Bill  handles  the  business 
end  of  the  show.    Jim  admits  he's 
not  the  type  and  has  the  figures  to 
prove  it.   When  the  brothers  Stan- 
ley  recently   closed   the   doors   of 
their    ill-fated    photography     and 
greeting-card    store,   one    item    in 
the    inventory    was    ten    thousand 
cardboard  picture  frames,  bought 
by  Jim  in  one  of  his  more  enthu- 
siastic moments  as  store  manager. 
Jim    also    admits    that    the    store 
cleared  $156  one  year  on  a  gross 
income  of  $21,000.  .  .  .  More  suc- 
cessfully, the  Stanleys  have  been 
amusing  Eastern  Connecticut  lis- 
teners for  three  years,  ever  since 
their  discharge  from  the  Marines. 
With  Jim's  admitted  lack  of  busi- 
ness acumen  and  Bill's  desire  to 
try  anything  new,  they  turned  to 
radio  and  WICH.     Says  Bill:   "We 
felt  a  local-type  program  by  local 
boys  would  be  good  for  everyone 
concerned."  Says  Jim:   "That's  not 
quite  it.  We  needed  the  money — 
and  nobody  else  would  hire  us." 


II 


HOW  MANY  FEATHERS 
ON  THE  ROBIN? 

Add  up  the  figfures  and  find  out.  Most  anybody  can  add,  but  can 
you  add  correctly?  The  reason  people  like  number  puzzles  is 
because  they  are  fascinating.  Fun  right  in  your  own  home,  and 
CASH  REWARDS  for  the  WINNERS.    Try  it  yourself. 

$6360.00  IN  CASH  PRIZES 

(NOW  ON  DEPOSIT) 

FIRST  PRIZE  $2,000  including  $500  bonus  for  promptness  (see  rule  2) 

Second    Prize $1000.00  9th  to  13th  Prize,  each.  .  .  .$100.00 

Third    Prize $500.00  14th  to  18th  Prize,  each.  .  .    $50.00 

Fourth   Prize $350.00  19th  to  44th  Prize,  each.  .  .    $25.00 

5th  to  8th  Prize,  each.  .  .  .    $200.00  45th  to  75th  Prize,  each.  .  .    $10.00 

—  HERE  ARE  THE  RULES  — 


V<374rv; 


17 
IL 


1.  This  Is  entirely  a  contest  of  num- 
bers, strictly  a  Game  ot  Skill.  Add  to- 
gether the  numbers  that  make  up  the 
drawing  of  the  Robin  and  get  the  SUM 
TOTAL  of  the  figures.  The  picture  is 
made  up  of  single  digits:  2,  3,  4,  5,  7, 
8  and  9.  There  are  no  sixes,  no  ones,  no 
zeros.  There  are  no  double  numbers  like 
"23",  etc.  Just  add  2  plus  3  plus  5.  etc.. 
and  get  the  SUM  TOTAL.  There  are 
no  tricks  to  this  puzzle,  just  a  problem 
in  addition.  It  is  not  so  easy  but  if  you 
are  careful  you  may  get  it  exactly  right. 
Only  persons  sending  a  $5.00  contribution 
to  our  Scholarships  Program  are  eligible 
for  these  Cash  Prizes.  No  additional 
donation  will  be  required  at  any  time 
during  the  contest.  Checks  and  Money 
Orders  should  be  made  payable  to 
'SCHOLABSHIPS,  INC  Send  cash  if 
you  prefer.  Write  as  for  additional 
pnzzle  sheets  if  yon  need  them. 

2.  First  prize  is  $1,500.  If  you  send 
your  contribution  before  the  date  print- 
ed on  the  entry  blank  you  will  qualify 
for  the  $500  Promptness  Bonus,  making 
the  total  First  Prize  $2000.  The  Prompt- 
ness Bonus  will  be  added  to  the  first 
prize  only. 

3.  You  should  check  and  recheck  your 
solution  carefully  before  mailing.  Once 
it  has  been  sent  it  may  not  be  changed 
or  withdrawn.  A  contestant  may  submit 
an  additional  entry  in  this  contest  with 
an  improved  score  provided  each  such 
entry  is  accompanied  by  the  required 
$5.00  contribution.  We  will  acknowledge 
receipt  of  your  entry  and  contribution 
promptly. 


Miss  Sally  Sey- 
mour is  one  of  29 
nurses  in  training 
at  nearby  hospitals 
under  our  scholar- 
ships, and  writes; 
"I  would  like  to  ex- 
press my  apprecia- 
tion to  those  who 
made  it  possible  for 
me  to  fnlfill  my  de- 
sire to  become  a 
nurse.  My  grateful 
thanks  to  Scholar- 
ships, Inc." 


4.  This  contest  is  confined  to  persons 
living  In  the  United  States,  its  terri- 
tories and  possessions  including  Alaska, 
Hawaiian  Islands,  Guam.  Canal  Zone, 
Puerto  Rico  and  Virgin  Islands.  Per- 
sons directly  connected  with  Scholar- 
ships, Inc.,  their  advertising  agency 
and  members  of  their  immediate  fami- 
lies are  ineligible. 

5.  Entries  will  be  accepted  from  Jan- 
uary 1  to  April  10,  1957.  Entries  post- 
marked April  10  will  be  accepted. 

6.  In  cEise  of  ties  on  this  Robin  Puz- 
zle the  winners  will  be  decided  by  a  tie- 
breaker number  puzzle  consisting  of 
drawing  a  path  across  a  chart  of  numbers 
to  arrive  at  a  high  total.  The  contestant's 
position  in  the  winning  list  will  be  deter- 
mined by  the  best  scores  submitted;  the 
best  answer  will  receive  First  Prize,  the 
second  best  answer  will  receive  Second 
Prize,  etc.  In  case  of  ties  on  the  tie- 
breaker puzzle,  prizes  will  be  reserved 
for  the  positions  of  tied  contestants  and 
their  final  order  of  finish  determined  by 
additional  tiebreaker  puzzles  vmtil  a  def- 
inite winner  for  each  prize  is  chosen. 
Seven  days  will  be  allowed  for  working 
the  first  tiebreaker  puzzle  and  three 
days  for  each  subsequent  tiebreaker.  If 
ties  remain  cifter  seven  tiebreaker  puz- 
zles, duplicate  prizes  will  be  paid. 

7.  It  Is  permissible  for  any  contestant 
to  receive  help  from  their  relatives  or 
friends  but  ONLY  ONE  SOLUTION 
may  be  submitted  to  the  tiebreaker 
puzzle  by  any  group  working  together, 
and  Emy  solution  known  to  have  been 


submitted  In  violation  of  this  rule  wUl 
be  rejected. 

8.  A  complete  report  of  this  contest 
Including  the  names  of  all  winners  will 
be  mailed  to  every  contestant  just  as 
soon  as  the  winners  have  been  decided. 
The  sponsors  of  this  contest  reserve  the 
right  to  decide  any  questions  that  may 
arise  during  the  contest  and  persons 
who  enter  agree  to  accept  these  deci- 
sions as  final. 

C.  L.  KITTLE,  Manager 


Here  is  a  contest  soon  over  and  soon 
paid  off.  The  rules  are  simple  and  com- 
plete. It's  entirely  a  contest  of  numbers, 
strictly  a  game  of  skill.  We  print  the 
winning  answer  with  the  name  and  ad- 
dress of  the  winner,  in  fact  we  print  the 
names  and  scores  of  all  of  the  winners. 
A  pencil  is  the  only  tool  required  and 
you  start  on  an  equal  basis  with  every- 
one else.  No  pictures  to  identify,  no 
statements  to  write.  If  yon  have  never 
taken  part  in  a  number  puzzle  contest 
why  not  give  it  a  try.  Give  yourself  a 
fair  chance  to  succeed.  This  may  be  the 
hobby  yon  have  been  looking  for.  Oper- 
ated by  a  non-profit  corporation  re- 
quired by  its  charter  to  devote  receipts 
in  excess  of  prizes,  advertising  and  legi- 
timate expenses  to  nurses  training, 
child  welfare  and  other  tax  exempt 
charitable  purposes. 


Mail  to  SCHOLARSHIPS,  INC.,  Box  241,  Lawrenceburg,  Ind. 

There  are feathers  on  the  Robin. 

Type  your  name  and  address  If  possible.    If  not  print  by  heind. 

Name 

Address 


City.. 


.  Zone State 


Donations  mailed  before  FEBBUABT  16,  1957,  qualify  for  Promptness  Bonus. 


21 


^j6^? 


don't  suffer 
a  moment 

longer  from 

HEARTBURN- 
ACID   INDIGESTION 


GetTUMS  Ideal  Relief... 
("People-tested"  by  Grateful 
Mothers! 

While  carrying  baby,  you'll  find 
modern  TUMS  are  such  a  blessing! 
Now  those  acid  attacks  needn't 
cause  you  another  minute  of  dis- 
tress. Just  eat  one  or  two  tasty 
TUMS.  They  quickly  dissolve  just 
right  to  get  to  the  stomach  fast 
. . .  and  neutralize  the  excess  acid 
that  causes  your  heartburn.  And 
TUMS  relief  really  lastsl  tums 
scientific  formula  contains  no 
soda,  no  alkalizers . . .  nothing  to 
upset  your  digestion.  They're  sa]e, 
fast,  and  sure.  Used  by  millions 
of  grateful  mothers.  Carry  TUMS 
wherever  you  go! 


22 


FOR  THE  TUMMY 

STILL  ONLY   10<   A   ROLL,  3-ROLL  PACK   25tf 


By  JOAN  DAVIS 
(Mary  Jane  Higby) 


Dear  Joan  Davis: 

I  have  a  terrible  problem  about  a  friend. 
We  are  both  sixteen,  both  in  high  school, 
and  have  been  best  friends  practically  since 
kindergarten.  There  is  nobody  I  know  so 
well,  even  my  own  family.  But  this  last 
year  she  has  been  acting  very  funny.  Not 
toward  me,  our  friendship  is  the  same.  But 
she  has  become  very  sharp-tongued  and 
snappy  toward,  it  seems,  the  whole  rest  of 
the  world — and  very  critical.  It  began  last 
term  when  she  got  a  crush  on  a  new  teacher 
in  our  school.  So  did  all  the  other  girls. 
But  I  knew  all  the  time  she  was  really  tak- 
ing it  much  too  big,  I  mean  really  seriously 
— and  he  is  married  and  has  a  small  baby. 
Now  it  seems  something  is  going  on  about 
this  teacher,  or  so  the  rumors  go.  The  story 
is  that  his  wife  or  our  principal  or  maybe 
both  have  been  told  that  he  has  been  carry- 
ing on  with  some  of  his  girl  students.  Now, 
I  go  to  a  small  school  and  I  guess  I  know 
everybody  in  it,  and  none  of  us  can  find  any 
girl  who  fits  such  a  picture,  but  the  worst 
of  it  is  I  have  a  strange  feeling  that  it  is 
my  friend  who  is  behind  the  trouble.  Know- 
ing her  so  well,  I  have  seen  and  heard  things 
that  make  me  very  suspicious.  I  do  not 
want  to  meddle.  But  if  I  can  make  sure 
my  friend  is  really  doing  something  wrong, 
should  I  do  anything  about  it  to  help  the 
teacher  and  his  wife?  So  far  it  is  only 
rumor,  but  suppose  they  want  to  fire  him 
or  something?  And  yet  this  is  my  best 
friend,  and  I  believe  in  loyalty  and  friend- 
ship.  Should  I  do  nothing? 

E.G. 

Dear  E.  G.: 

Loyalty  and  friendship  are  fine  things  to  be- 
lieve in,  E.  G.  If,  at  your  age,  you  already 
realize  how  much  they  can  secure  and  enrich 
your  life,  you've  made  great  strides.  But  I'd 
like  to  offer  one  additional  stepping-stone  to 
the  maturity  of  mind  and  character  you'll  un- 
doubtedly arrive  at  one  day:  Honesty.  The 
honesty  that  begins  with  being  honest  with 
oneself,  about  oneself.  Just  how  much  do  you 
absolutely  know  about  your  friend's  possible 
wrongdoing — and  how  much  is  made  up  of 
your  own  imagination  and  of  circumstances? 
How  much  comes  from  a  possible  desire  to  be 


ABC  listeners  get  a  warm 
response  to  personal 
queries,  from,  the  heroine  of 
When  A  Girl  Marries 


important  in  the  life  of  this  teacher  on  whom 
all  the  girls,  as  you  report,  had  crushes?  This 
may  seem  harsh  and  it  may  indeed  be  unfair, 
but  the  answers  must  be  found  in  your  own 
heart  before  you  give  this  problem  any  further 
thought.  Now,  I  will  assume  that  your  an- 
swer to  yourself  will  be :  No,  Fm  not  imagining. 
I  know  she  has  something  to  do  with  what's 
happening.  But  I  don't  know  what.  I  would 
suggest  as  a  first  step  that  you  try  to  re-estab- 
lish your  intimacy.  Perhaps  if  she  feels  she 
can  still  rely  on  your  friendship  she  will  dis- 
cuss the  whole  thing  with  you,  and  you  can 
then  use  all  your  powers  of  persuasion  to  urge 
her  to  stop — whether  she's  been  writing  anony- 
mous letters  or  making  sly  phone  calls  or 
merely  circulating  damaging  rumors  which 
have  no  basis  in  fact.  If  and  when  you  actu- 
ally have  some  proof  that  your  friend  is  guilty, 
you  can  still  do  nothing,  with  a  clear  con- 
science, unless  you  become  certain  that  this 
young  teacher  is  really  being  harmed  or  even 
seriously  inconvenienced  by  her  actions. 

However,  if  you  are  profoundly,  morally 
sure  that  the  young  teacher  is  in  real  trouble, 
I  think  you  would  be  justified  in  going  to  him 
and  telling  him  what  you  know  and  can  prove. 
Remember — not  merely  your  impressions  or 
suspicions,  but  hard  fact.  Let  him  take  it 
from  there.  He  has  the  right  to  try  to  protect 
himself,  and  also  the  responsibility— that  is 
not  yours.  Your  part  in  this  potentially  most 
unpleasant  situation  is  chiefly  to  keep  quiet, 
jump  to  no  conclusions,  and  make  absolutely 
certain  that  the  line  between  what  you  know 
and  what  you  suspect  is  as  sharp  and  clear  as 
honesty  can  make  it. 

Dear  Joan  Davis: 

Six  years  ago  I  eloped  with  a  boy  who 
worked  in  the  same  place  as  I  then  did,  and 
with  whom  I  believed  I  was  passionately  in 
love.  We  eloped  because  my  mother  was 
against  him,  but  I  paid  no  attention.  Well, 
my  little  girl  was  only  a  couple  of  months 
old  when  I  had  to  admit  that  we  were  mis- 
matched. There  seemed  no  way  in  which  we 
could  get  along,  though  in  himself  I  still 
think  there  is  nothing  so  awfully  wrong 
with  this  boy.  Both  of  us  were  quarreling 
and  miserable  all  the  time.  Finally,  I  got  a 
divorce  after  two  years  of  this  unhappiness. 


H 


Then  a  year  went  by  and  I  started  seeing 
him  again.  He  was  very  anxious  to  try  again, 
and,  thinking  of  our  little  daughter,  I  de- 
cided it  was  worth  trying  to  give  her  back 
her  rightful  father.  But,  Miss  Davis,  it  is 
again  a  terrible  failure.  This  time,  for  almost 
three  years  I  have  been  trying,  and  all  I 
know  is  that  I  am  miserable  and  see  no  use 
in  going  on  living.  For  the  sake  of  my  little 
girl,  do  you  think  I  should  go  on  like  this 
or  break  it  up  again  and  admit  failure? 

Mrs.  R.  M.  C. 


Dear  Mrs.  R.  M.  C: 

You  do  not  tell  me  in  what  special  ways 
you  and  your  husband  cannot  get  along,  but 
it  is  apparent  that,  whatever  the  trouble  is, 
your  two  tries  have  proved  that  it  is  basic. 
However,  this  does  not  necessarily  mean  that 
it  is  incurable.  This  young  man  with  whom 
you  thought  yourself  "passionately  in  love"  still 
meant  enough  to  you  after  a  year  of  separation 
to  make  you  think  of  trying  marriage  again, 
and  for  this  reason — as  well  as  for  your  child's 
sake — I  would  think  very  searchingly,  very, 
carefully,  before  rushing  into  a  second  divorce. 
By  this  time,  both  you  and  he  are  probably 
incapable  of  taking  a  good,  honest  look  at  the 
situation  without  outside  help.  Through  your 
clergyman,  your  family  doctor,  or  an  available 
social  agency  in  your  city,  try  to  place  your- 
selves and  your  marriage  in  the  hands  of  a 
qualified  marriage  counselor.  Such  a  person, 
trained,  experienced,  and  able  to  look  at  both 
of  you  without  emotional  factors  to  blur  his 
vision,  can  very  possibly  help  you  figure  out 
what's  wrong.  Don't  be  sheepish  or  embar- 
rassed about  seeking  such  help.  If  you  can 
win  happiness  for  the  three  of  you,  isn't  it 
worth  a  little  effort?  Please  try,  R.M.C.,  and 
try  with  all  your  heart,  before  you  think  of 
giving  up  again. 

Dear  Joan  Davis: 

I  am  eighteen  and  just  out  of  high  school, 
but  what  is  most  important  about  me  is  that 
I  am  an  only  child.  You  see,  this  is  a  very 
small  place  I  have  lived  in,  a  village  really, 
and  for  a  long  time  it  has  been  my  great 
ambition  to  go  to  a  really  good  business 
school  and  learn  to  be  a  really  good  secre- 
tary. Except  for  the  typing  and  shorthand 
in  high  school,  there  is  no  place  around 
here  where  I  can  get  any  kind  of  training, 
not  to  say  first-class  training  such  as  you 
can  get  in  a  school  in  a  big  city.  But  my 
parents,  who  are  unfortunately  quite  a  bit 
older  than  average,  because  I  was  born  to 
them  late  in  life,  are  terribly  set  against  my 
going.  I  would  have  to  live  in  Chicago,  fifty 
miles  away,  but  I  could  come  back  week- 
ends and,  in  fact,  there  are  some  men  around 
here  who  even  commute  back  and  forth 
every  day.  I  couldn't  do  that,  but  I  tell  it  to 
show  that  I  am  not  asking  to  go  to  another 
world.  Also  I  have  a  second  cousin  in 
Chicago,  quite  a  bit  older,  who  has  said  I 
can  live  with  her.  But,  because  she  is  older 
and  divorced,  my  parents  act  as  though  I 
were  going  into  a  life  of  sin. 

M.  M. 

Dear  M.  M.: 

Parents    can    be    so    unreasonable — particu- 


larly when  they  start  pointing  out  how  unrea- 
sonable their  children  are!  The  sad  truth  is 
that  there  seems  to  be  some  basic  law  of  na- 
ture that  prevents  the  generations  from  under- 
standing one  another's  points  of  view.  As  an 
only  child  you  do  have  a  harder  row  to  hoe, 
and  I  wish  1  could  supply  some  magic  for- 
mula that  would  make  it  easy  for  you  to  ex- 
plain your  position  to  your  parents — and  that 
would  also  enable  you  to  understand  their 
anxieties  and  apprehensions.  If  there  is  no  real 
reason  why  this  second  cousin  of  yours  is  an 
undesirable  companion — and  for  that  I  think 
you  will  have  to  accept  your  parents'  verdict — 
then  you  should  enlist  the  help  of  someone  your 
parents  respect,  to  support  your  side  of  the 
argument.  Your  clergyman  would  be  ideal.  But 
failing  such  help,  and  if  your  parents  continue 
to  insist  they  will  not  allow  you  to  live  with 
your  cousin,  perhaps  you  will  have  to  com- 
promise with  your  ambitions  for  a  year  or  two. 
You  are  certainly  very  young  to  be  completely 
on  your  own — young  enough  to  give  up  a  cou- 
ple of  years  to  allay  your  parents'  fears.  At 
nineteen  or  twenty,  if  you  still  feel  as  you  do 
now,  you  would  be  justified  in  putting  your 
case  to  them  much  more  urgently.  Sooner  or 
later  every  parent  must  face  the  fact  of  his 
child's  adulthood,  but  in  your  case  it  would 
be  better,  I  think,  to  go  gently  rather  than  to 
try  to  force  them  to  agree  to  something  they 
may,  in  a  comparatively  short  time,  come 
around  to  seeing  by  themselves. 

Dear  Joan  Davis: 

I  have  one  big  problem  and  it's  my  hus- 
band. We've  been  married  two  years  and 
have  a  son  and  are  expecting  our  second 
child  very  soon.  We've  been  getting  along 
fine  except  for  the  last  few  months.  Every 
time  I  think  that  we  are  settled  for  a  quiet 
evening,  his  mother  or  sister  send  for  him 
to  do  this  or  that,  and  he  never  refuses.  I'm 
the  one  who  gets  rejected. 

Mrs.  R.  P. 

Dear  Mrs.  R.  P.: 

Is  there  any  special  reason  why  this  situa- 
tion only  arose  during  the  last  few  months? 
If  your  mother-in-law  has  moved  or  if  there  is 
some  other  temporary  reason  for  her  to  call 
on  your  husband  for  help,  perhaps  patience  is 
the  answer  to  your  problem.  Perhaps  these 
calls  haven't  come  as  often  as  you,  in  your 
resentment,  feel  they  have.  Be  sure  you  are 
not  magnifying  the  problem.  But  if  you  are 
sure,  then  talk,  first  to  your  husband — not  quar- 
relsomely or  emotionally,  but  reasonably.  Point 
out  that  it  is  unfair  for  him  to  leave  you  to  so 
many  lonely  evenings.  Alternatively,  you  might 
try  proposing,  the  next  time  he  gets  a  call  from 
his  mother  or  sister,  that  you  go  along  with 
him.  This  would  serve  the  double  purpose  of 
relieving  your  loneliness  and  giving  you  a 
chance  to  socialize  with  your  in-laws  and  per- 
haps improve  the  relationship.  If  none  of  this 
works,  I  am  afraid  your  only  recourse  is  to 
be  more  patient.  Nothing  is  more  dangerous 
than  trying  to  drive  a  wedge  between  your  hus- 
band and  his  family.  Your  husband  may  come 
to  his  own  conclusions  about  these  demands. 
You  may  safely  make  it  plain  that  you  don't 
like  these  constant  calls — but  leave  it  at  that. 
Nagging  will  get  you  into  a  far  worse  situa- 
tion than  the  annoyance  you  put  up  with  now. 


Latest  Tall  fashions 
proportioned  to  fit 
well  and  styled  with 
your  height  in  mind! 
Priced  no  more  than 
regular  misses' 
■  fashions.  They  come 
in  sizes  10  to  20. 

Checked  Percale  and  crisp  PiquS  combine  to 
fashion  this  flattering  Coat  Dress,  only  $3.98! 
Other  lovely  dresses  $3.49  up.  Also  coats,  suits, 
sportswear,  shoe^  hose  and  lingerie. 

^P"     All       ^^^'  Five-Seven  Shops 

[         I    ^^^    ki   t   NewYorkl?,  N.  Y. 1 

Please  send  me  FREE  Tall  Girls  Style  Book  (T-1) 


Name 


Address 


Post  Office 


State 


lU 


23 


Now...  end  dandruff  problems 


T 
V 
R 

24 


this  pleasant  easy  shampoo  way! 


new 


tl4ii6u4  ENUEN-the  first  proven  medical  treatment  in 


J 


shampoo  form!  No  prescription  needed. . .  99%  effective! 


Quickly  ends  I'fching,  flaking,  excess  oiliness— without  messy  salves, 
ointments  or  separate  lotions  — Here  at  last  is  an  amazingly  effective 
treatment  and  a  rich-sudsing  shampoo  all  in  one.  You  have  never  used 
anything  as  simple,  as  pleasant  and  as  easy.  Enden  get  results  even  after 
other  methods  have  failed.  While  you  shampoo,  it  penetrates  to  the  trouble 
spots.  Between  shampoos,  it  actually  inhibits  bacteria  growth.  Use  enden 
regularly  and  your  dandruff  problems  will  be  over. 

Proved  99%  effective  in  2-year  doctor-supervised  clinical  fesfs—- Der- 
matologists and  skin  specialists  have  proved  enden's  basic  ingredients. 
CUnical  tests  showed  99%  of  patients  enjoyed  positive  benefits.  While 
enden's  medications  have  been  medically  approved  for  years,  science  was 
unable  to  combine  them  in  a  pleasant  shampoo  imtil  now. 

A  wonderful  shampoo  for  the  whole  fami/y— Enden  is  especially  good 
for  adolescent  dandruff.  Even  children  can  use  enden  safely,  for  it  is  a 
superior  shampoo  as  well  as  a  treatment  that  prevents  dandruff  problems 
from  starting.  Enden  helps  make  hair  look  "alive"  and  healthy— leaves 
it  shining.  And  you'll  discover  enden  makes  your  scalp  feel  so  fresh— far 
cleaner  than  with  your  favorite  ordinary  shampoo.  To  end  dandruff  prob- 
lems and  prevent  their  return,  switch  to  enden. 

use  ENDEN  instead  of  your  regular  shampoo— ends  itching  SCalp 

and  dandruff  'problems  and  prevents  their  return! 


'Trade  mark 


big  jar 

only  ^1  ^  O  at  drug  and  cosmetic  counters 

'  ■   no  tat 


Guaranteed  to  end  dandruff  problems 

Developed  after  years  of  laboratory  tests  by 
Helene  Curtis,  foremost  authority  on  hair  care. 


1 


By  JAYNE  MEADOWS 


Getting   Steve  off  to  work   is   like  getting   a   small   boy  off 
to  school — complete  with  a  list  of  "reminders"  for  the  day. 


As  Mrs.  Allen,  I  know  he  can  he  as 
helpless  as  any  husband  alive 
— and  more  absent-minded  than  most. 
But,  in  the  things  that  count, 
Steve's  heart  always  remembers  .  .  . 


*RCHING  THEIR  BROWS,  people  who  are  familiar  with  Steve's 
■^^    crowded  schedule  often  ask  me:    "And  what  do  you  do 
with  your  time?"    A  fair  question — for  it's  reasonable 
to  wonder  what  does  anyone  who  is  not  Steve  Allen  do 
with  his  or  her  time! 

In  January  or  February,  Steve  intends  to  drop  Tonight. 
Meanwhile,  he  is  on  the  air  four  nights  a  week  for  NBC-TV: 
Wednesday,  Thursday  and  Friday,  from  11: 30  P.M.  to  1 
A.M.,  New  York  time,  on  Tonight.  Sunday,  from  eight 
to  nine  P.M.,  on  Ti^ie  Steve  Allen  Show — to  which  he  will  now 
devote  all  of  his  television  time  and  thought  and  talent. 

The  number  of  conferences,  auditions,  rehearsals  and, 
inevitably,  headaches  involved  in  this  much  network  exposure 
may  be  imagined!    Now  and  again,  a  between-telecasts  trip 


Continued 


25 


Just  call  me  "Meadows,"  valet  extraordinary.  I  lay  out 
Steve's  clothes,  socks  to  tie — and,  of  course,  a  clean 
handkerchief.  But  the  apple  isn't  for  "Teacher."  I  slip 
them  into  his  pockets,  in  case  he  forgets  to  eat  lunch. 


Tli^at's  ^^*y   Steve  J 

(Continued) 

is  called  for,  such  as  the  one  last  October  to  Fairmount, 
Indiana,  Jimmy  Dean's  home  town,  in  preparation  for 
the  tribute  Steve  paid  the  late  beloved  young  actor 
on  his  Sunday-night  show.  On  Mondays  and  Tuesdays, 
his  "days  off,"  he  might  be  found  making  an  album  or 
a  recording  for  Coral  Records.  When  he  is  not  on  a 
movie  or  TV  screen — or  preparing  to  be — he  is  burning 
the  post-midnight  oil  at  his  typewriter. 

Within  the  space  of  one  year,  Steve  published  three 
books:  "Bop  Fables,"  "The  Funny  Men,"  and  "Four- 
teen for  Tonight,"  a  collection  of  short  stories.  His 
most  recent  book,  "Wry  on  the  Rocks,"  a  collection  of 
his  poems,  was  published  last  October  by  Henry  Holt 
&  Company.  He  writes  a  monthly  page  for  a  national 
nnagazine — and  fiction,  mostly  short  stories,  for  a  num- 
ber of  magazines. 

He  has  more  contracts  than  the  nimble  piano-playing 
fingers  of  his  hands.  Television  contracts.  Contracts 
with  movie  companies — "The  Benny  Goodman  Story," 
in  which  he  impersonated  the  great  clarinetist,  was  a 
Universal-International  film.  Contracts  with  publishers. 

Compared  with  Steve's  activities  and  commitments, 
my  Wednesday-night  stint  on  the  Garry  Moore  panel 
show,  I've  Got  A  Secret,  guest  shots  on  TV  dramatic 
shows,  summer-theater  work  (such  as  "Tea  and  Sym- 
pathy," in  which  I  toured' last  summer),  the  recordings 
my  sister  Audrey  and  I  do  every  few  months  under 
the  RCA  Victor  label — and  all  the  personal  appear- 
ances we  make  in  connection  with  these  records — is  so 
relatively  relaxed  a  schedule  as  to  leave  me,  pre- 
sumably, with  time  on  my  hands  to  spare. 

But,  although  the  question  of  what  I  do  with  my 
time  is  obviously  a  fair  one,  the  innocence  of  those 
who  ask  it  amuses  me  no  end.  When  a  man  as  busy  as 
Steve  Allen  is  as  absent-minded  and  helpless  as  Steve 
Allen,  no  one  knows  what  the  wife  has  to  do! 

I  get  him  up  in  the  morning.  I  run  his  bath.  I  lay 
out  his  clothes.  I  cook  breakfast  for  him.  I  keep  after 
him  as  a  mother  after  a  child  in  danger  of  being  late 
for  school:  "Now  get  into  the  tub.  Now  eat  your  break- 
fast. Here  is  your  list  of  appointments  for  the  day.  You 
have  eight  minutes  to  get  to  the  office." 

As  soon  as  he  leaves  the  house,  I  pick  up  the  little 
heap  of  last  night's  shoes,  socks,  newspapers,  scraps  of 
paper  on  which  he  has  scribbled  fragments  of  verse, 
pens,  pencils,  everything  that  has  been  dumped  (and 
everything  dumpable  has  been)  on  the  table  or  floor 
by  his  bed. 

Usually  the  debris  is  strictly  for  the  laundry  and/or 
wastebasket,  but  I  dare  not  delegate  the  task  of  pick- 
ing up  after  Steve  to  our  maid — ^since,  one  morning, 
I  salvaged  a  mothy  scrap  of  paper  on  which  was 
scrawled,  in  pencil: 

"He  never  harmed  a  soul 
Except  his  own." 

Under  the  title,  "Epitaph,"  these  two  poignant  lines 
are  to  be  found  on  page  111  of  "Wry  on  the  Rocks." 

I  once  asked  him,  "Isn't  it  as  easy  to  drop  things  in 
a  wastebasket  as  on  the  floor?"  What  answer  did  he 
make?  None.  He  didn't  hear  me.  He  was  dreaming 
about  something.  .  .  .  (Continued  on  page  93) 

The  Steve  Allen  Show  is  seen  on  NBC-TV,  Sun.,  8  P.M.  EST,  for 
Viceroy  Cigarettes,  Andrew  .Tergens  Co.,  Polaroid,  Maybelline, 
and  others.  .layne  is  seen  on  I've  Got  A  Secret.  CBS-TV,  Wed.. 
9:30  P.M.  EST,  for  Winston  Cigarettes.  Steve  stars  on  Tonight, 
NBC-TV,  Wed-Thu-Fri,  11  :,30  P.M.  E.ST  and  PST,  11  P.M.  C'ST. 


I 


/■ 


•/• 


4V  ; 


r 


/ 


':it 


^1 


^ 


Anyone  who's  ever  seen  him  on  TV  (above,  with  Sonnmy  Davis,  Jr.,  on  The  Steve  Allen  Show] 
knows  how  talented  he  is.  hie  nnay  be  "Man  overboard!"  in  a  kitchen,  but  he's  terrific  at 
piano  or  typewriter — a  truly  creative  nnusician,  comedian,  emcee,  author,  poet  and  composer. 


Fan  mail  only  tells  Steve  how  nice  other  people 
ore,  because  they  took  the  trouble  to  write.  My 
husband  has  less  "ego"  than  anyone  could  imagine. 


His  energy  and  range  of  enthusiasms  ore  seemingly 
boundless.  It  takes  a  kind  of  "tenth  sense"  to  tell 
me  when  he's  really  tired  out  and  need?  pampering. 


27 


i 


""aiiBiWim,. 


^ 


"-fv^^#wr  •*^»TTrP^ 


Partners:  Seated  at  left,  Bill  Haley  and  manager 
Jim  Ferguson.  Standing,  Billy  Williamson,  and  yours 
truly,  John  Grande  (leaning  on  "Lord  Jim's"  chair). 


By  JOHN   GRANDE 


WE  WERE  a  pair  of  real  sad  cats,  Billy 
Williamson  and  I,  that  day  back  in  Newark. 
It's  strange  now  to  realize  that  it  had  anything 
to  do  with  The  Comets— and  that  happy  heat 
called  rock  'n'  roll — for  our  gloom  was  so  thick 
you  couldn't  have  dented  it  with  a  rimshot. 
What  Billy  and  I  had  thought  was  our  first 
important  band  job  had  turned  into  a  stinker. 

I  was  seventeen,  Billy  was  twenty-one,  and  that 
hotel  room  of  ours  was  worn  out  fifty  years 
before  either  of  us  was  born.  The  bed  sagged  and 
so  did  the  floor;  the  curtains  were  dirty  and 
the  carpet  torn.    If  any  of  the  pretty  girls  who 
gave  us  the  eye  when  we  were  on  stand  had  ever 
got  a  load  of  that  room,  they  would  never  have 
looked  at  us  twice.   Had  my  mother  seen  it, 
she  wouldn't  have  looked  more  than  once.    She 
would  have  hauled  me  out  by  the  ear. 

We  had  just  been  paid.    It  sounded  real  great — 

Continued       ^ 


JEB***^' 


>;.-♦>•>">'>■>  >  ->  >  n.  n  :>  ">  ^% 


/ 


We  knew  Haley'd  be  the  kind  of  leader  who  wouldn't  hog  the  spotlight  but  give 
all  his  men  a  chance — and,  man,  we  were  right!  But  we  never  guessed  what  a  new 
sound  The  Comets  would  beat  out — and  how  the  cats  would  congregate  to  hear  It. 


We've  got  the  beat, 
got  the  whole  world 
rolling,  because 
The  Comets  hove  got 
a  star  any  guy 
would  be  glad  to  follow 


nnw  mum  wifh  eia  miY 


(Continued) 


i 

1^ 

■1 

u 

Hmsk^ 

^^^^^^ 

w 

^i 

>» 

n 

^     %i 

l§ 

^'^fl^L 

^s 

**^xi 

W'"t>'1^^I 

^^^^^. . 

'■*■' 

^ 

^ 

Lucky  The  Comets  dig  each  other 
offstage,  too — tours  can  be  rugged. 


By  bus  or  plane,  day  or  night,  the 
story  of  our  life  Is  "Go!  So!  Go!" 


One  big  family  on  a  bus — trying  not 
to  miss  our  own  families  back  home. 


Sharon  Ann  and  Jackie  are  hialey's  children  by  his  first 
marriage — he  has  three  more  at  home  now.  Billy  Williamson 
and  I  hove  kids,  too.  Billy's  'real  gone  on  antiques,  so — 
at  a  show  in  Rochester,  below^he  tried  to  sell  me  on  a  100- 
year-old  doll  as  a  take-home  present  for  my  daughter  Linda. 


30 


at  home — to  say  I  got  ninety  bucks  a  week  for 
playing  the  accordion.   Billy,  on  steel  guitar, 
got  the  same.  We  had  settled  our  hotel  bill,  paid 
our  union  tax,  picked  up  our  laundry  and 
pressing,  and  had  taken  care  of  those  extras  which 
always  creep  in.   I  pulled  my  remaining  cash  out 
of  my  pocket.   It  didn't  take  long  to  count.   If  I 
ate  careful,  I'd  get  through  the  next  week. 

Billy,  totalling  his  loot,  was  even  more  disgusted. 
"I  know  kids  back  in  Norristown,  Pennsylvania," 
he  said,  "who  deliver  groceries  to  make  date 
money  and  come  out  better  than  this." 

"And  live  better,"  I  added,  thinking  of  my  home 
in  South  Philadelphia.    About  now,  my  mother 
would  be  fixing  the  spaghetti,  my  sister.  Rose 
Marie,  and  my  little  brother,  Dino,  would  be 
buzzing  around.   Dad  would  get  home  from  work 
and  there  would  be  laughing  and  singing.    The 
family  would  be  together. 

Billy  was  homesick,  too.   He  has  the  Irish  gift 
for  making  a  joke  out  of  anything,  but  now  his  ■ 
face  was  long.   "Man,  we're  nowhere.   We  work 
in  a  joint  about  as  big  as  two  phone  booths 
pushed  together,  everybody's  got  a  beef  and  no 
one  gets  a  chance  to  play  what  he  wants  to  play. 
This  band  is  going  to  break  up  for  sure." 

That  triggered  it.   We  sat  around  getting  all 
our  gripes  off  our  chests  and  our  ambitions 
into  words.   When  it  came  time  to  go  to  work,  we 
had  settled  one  thing — we  both  wanted  to  get 
into  an  outfit  where  the  guys  would  stick  together 
until  we  amounted  to  something.    It  should 
be  a  sort  of  a  musical  family.  To  head  that  family, 
we  needed  a  leader — not  just  a  guy  who  coiild 
stamp  out  a  beat,  but  someone  we  could  look  up 
to,  that  we  could  learn  from.    A  leader  who 
would  let  you  use  every  bit  of  talent  in  you. 

It  was  quite  a  blueprint.    "You  know  any  such 
guy?"  I  asked  Billy.    It  was  about  the  same 
as  asking  for  a  good  route  to  the  moon. 

Billy's  brow  had  more  furrows  than  his  guitar 
had  strings.    "Matter  of  fact,  I  do.   There's  this 
Bill  Haley — you've   (Continued  on  page  86) 


The  Comet  line-up — in  the  usual  order — Al  Rex,  bass;  nnyself  (John  Grande!), 
accordion;  Franny  Beecher,  electric  guitar;  Bill  hloley,  guitar  (and  "ideal" 
boss);  Billy  Williamson,  steel  guitar;  Ralph  Jones,  drummer;  Rudy  Pompillii, 
sax.  The  home  line-up  below — Billy's  wife  Cathy;  my  wife  Helen;  Miss  Linda 
Grande,   5,   on   accordion,   and    Master   Billy  Williamson,   Jr.,   4,    on   guitar. 


Now  that  you  ve  seen  Helen  and  Linda 
(right),  can  you  blame  me  for  calling 
home  so  often?  But  Lord  Jim's  seen  the 
band's  $1 ,000-a-month  phone  bills — so 
who  can  blame  him  for  blowing  his  top? 


31 


All -American  Mother 


As  Margaret  Anderson  m  Father  Knozvs  Best,  Jane  personifies 
o  newer,  truer  version  of  todoy's  chic,  attractive  homemokers. 


"Father  Knows  Best,''  of  course, 

on  TV — but  Jane  Wyatt  found  the  one 

greatest  answer  in  her  own  heart 


A  Vf  -''4H 


On  TV  (above),  she's  wife  to  Robert  Young  and 
nnother  of  Billy  Gray,  Elinor  Donahue  and  little 
Lauren  Chapln.  Below,  at  home  with  her  own  hus- 
band, Edgar  Ward,  and  their  younger  son,  Mike. 


32 


i 


Edgar  and  their  sons  Chris   (left)   and   Mike  are   ardent  fisher- 
men.  Jane  loves  to  go  along,  too — but  only  to  watch  the  bird-,! 


By  DIANE  SCOTT 

ONE  RESTLESS  AFTERNOON  that  was  to  change  her  whole 
philosophy  of  life — and  her  future — ^Jane  Wyatt  asked 
herself  why  she  had  failed.    What  had  happened  to  the 
girl  who  was  so  high  of  heart  and  hope?    The  actress  so 
dedicated  to  making  the  kind  of  magic  that  would  be 
remembered  for  all  time?  .  .  .  She  thought  of  the  Broadway 
openings — and  the  closings.    Of  starring  in  important 
Hollywood  productions  like  "Lost  Horizon" — and  some  of 
the  parts  she  won  afterward  which  might  better  have  been 
lost.    Of  all  the  alternating  high  hope  and  deep  despair.  .  .  . 

Idly,  Jane  picked  up  an  old  black  scrapbook  and  began 
turning  the  pages,  feeling  a  little  sorry  for  the  girl  who  had 
so  carefully  pasted  in  those  first  paragi'aphs — all  the  bits 
of  paper  that  were  to  add  up  to  the  big  dream.  .  .  .  Two 
hours  later,  closing  the  pages  of  the  past,  Jane  Wyatt  knew 
where  she  had  really  failed     And  what  she  must  do. 

"I  was  really  disappointea,  I  suppose,"  Jane  says  now, 
"because  I  wasn't  Helen  Hayes,  Katharine  Hepburn  and 
Greta  Garbo  all  rolled  into  one.    I  guess  you  think  you're 
going  to  be — that's  why  you  go  into  it.  And  I'd  always  been 
so  intense  about  acting.    So  intense  about  getting  better 
parts  in  movies — and  about  getting  plays  that  would  run 
longer.  I  felt  I'd  failed,  and  I  was  so  discouraged." 

She  remembered  only  the  peaks.    But,  looking  through 
her  scrapbook,  she  was  reminded  of  the  years,  the  plays, 
the  pictures — all  the  performances  in  between.  And  nowhere 
was  personal  failure  written  there.   The  critics  had  been 
almost  unbelievably  kind.   Jane  thought:  Many  of  the 
productions   failed — but  people   said   you   were   good.   What 
right  did  she  have  to  be  so  discouraged  about  her  career? 

As  Jane  says  now,  "I  decided  to  enjoy  my  work  and  to  be 
more  humble  about  it.   Somebody  once  said,  'Humility  is 
the  acceptance  of  reality' — and  that's  right.  If  you're  humble, 
you  accept  reality   .   .   .  not  what  you   intended,   but 
what  is.  I  decided  to  be  happier  (Continued  on  page  94) 

.lane  Wyatt  is  Margaret  Anderson  in   Father  Knows  Best,  as  seen  over 
NBC-TV.  Wednesday.  8 :.^0  P.M.  EST,  sponsored  by  Scott  Paper  Company. 


Being  the  lone  female  In  the  family  doesn't  faze 
Jane.  She's  learned  a  lot  about  sports — and  model 
planes,  as  made  by  Mike — but  even  more  about  the 
"being  together"  which  builds  and  warms  a  home. 


Homecoming:  San  Francisco  welconnecl  the  emcee  of  The  $64,000  Question  with 
open  arms,  when  favorite-son  hiol  March  returned  with  his  lovely  bride  Candy. 


This  is 


At  3,  hial  didn't  even  dream  of  TV — 
but  he  was  already  alert  to  cameras. 


By  MAXINE  ARNOLD 


C'onclusion 

THIS  IS  where  I  started.  Where 
I  first  really  got  going  in  show 
business — and  I'm  proud  of  it. 
.  .  .  Hal  March  stood  in  front  of  the 
burlesque  house  beside  a  life-sized 
photo  of  a  blonde  stripper  billed  as 
"Miss  Crystal  Salt."  A  big  red  sign 
with  white  letters  read:  "Follies  Bur- 
lesque— New   Show  Every  Friday." 

It  was  the  old  President  Theater 
at  80  McAllister  Street  in  San  Fran- 
cisco. Ironically  enough,  only  eleven 
blocks  from  where  a  teen-aged  Hal 
Mendelson  had  worked  behind  the 
counter  of  his  dad's  delicatessen 
store  and  lived  for  the  day  he  could 
leave  "the  street"  and  its  seeming 
oblivion  .  . .  the  night  when  he  would 
cross  that  topaz  necklace  of  lights 
which  was  the  Oakland  Bay  bridge 
— and  head  for  Hollywood  and  show 
business. 

However,  (Continued  on  page  80) 


Hal  emcees  The  $64,000  Question.  CBS-TV, 
Tues.,  at   10   P.M.   EST,  for   Revlon,  Inc. 


where  it  all  began 


First  love,  first  city  in 

Hal  March's  heart — his  own 

home  town,  San  Francisco 


At  17,  he  was  graduated  from  George 
Washington    hiigh,    in   San    Francisco. 


Dad's    delicatessen-store    truck    was 
no  vehicle  for  Hal's  stage  annbitions. 


And  the  Army  was  no  place  for  his  flat 
feet — but  it  did  "straighten"  his  nose! 


Back  on  McAllister  Street:  A  flower  for  his  lapel,  as  he 
visits  the  old  neighborhood.  A  chat  with  his  first  stage 
boss,  Eddie  Skolak,  as  they  adnnire  poster  of  the  letter's 
wife  in  front  of  the  well-remembered   President  Theater. 


FRIEND,  JACKIE  GLEASON 


*^W 


/ 


\': 


V 


N 


-*^'^i    -H 


fl 


r 


i 


Like  anyone  at  the  top,  he's  had  his  share  of  criticism— 

but  don't  knock  him  to  me.  I  know  how  really  "tops"  he  is! 


^^^HBm^ 

WL 

■A. 

mmmm 

M 

J 

■ 

1 

1 

1 

u 

E^Wi 

One  thing 

we  he 

d  in  common 

,  when 

we  met 

nine  years  a 

go, 

was 

a 

love 

of  Dixie- 

land  music 

.  Oth« 

3rs  share  it, 

too,  as 

proved 

by  this 

am 

session 

on 

a 

memorable 

Jackie   Gleason 

Show. 

From 

left  to 

right    (between 

mys 

elf 

and 

Jack 

■e) 

,    Audrey 

Meadows, 

Steve 

Allen, 

Jock 

Carter, 

Garry 

Moore, 

Phil 

Silvers, 

ar 

id 

R 

ay    Bloch. 

By  JACK  LESCOULIE 


My  REAL  NAME  is  John  Pierre  Lescoulie.  My  friend, 
Jackie  Gleason,  generally  calls  me  "Li'l  Abner." 
We're  good  friends.  Besides  seeing  him  Saturday  at 
the  rehearsal  and  show,  I  usually  have  lunch  with 
Jackie  about  twice  a  week.  That's  when  I  first  brought 
this  up.  I  told  him,  "TV  Radio  Mirror  wants  me  to  do 
a  story  about  you.  How  would  you  feel  about  it?" 

"Go  right  ahead,  pal." 

"Anything  you  want  in  this?"  I  asked. 

"No,  Li'l  Abner.  You're  on  your  own.  Go  all  the 
way." 

So  here  we  go.  All  the  way.  Jackie  has  been  mis- 
represented by  some  writers  and  somie  publications. 
I  intend  to  correct  some  of  these  things.  But  I'm  not 
going  to  tell  you  what  to  believe.  I'll  tell  you  some 
stories  about  Jackie  that  no  one  has  ever  written  about. 


I 


and  then  you  can  draw  your  own  conclusions.  And 
away  we  go. 

Not  long  ago,  a  national  magazine  did  a  picture  lay- 
out on  Jackie.  Every  picture  made  him  look  moody 
and  heartbroken — as  if  he  spent  his  hours  of?  TV 
knitting  a  hangman's  noose.  Now,  a  camera  doesn't 
necessarily  lie,  but  the  fact  is  that  the  magazine  in 
question  took  about  four  hundred  pictures  and,  out 
of  the  mass,  selected  a  half-dozen  that  made  Jackie 
look  like  a  Pagliacci.  That  is  not  Jackie. 

Nine  years  ago,  I  met  Gleason,  and  he's  the  same 
happy-go-lucky  soul  today  that  he  was  then.  Sure, 
he  has  problems.  But,  as  Jackie  himself  says,  "It  only 
takes  four  friends  and  five  seconds  to  shake  a  prob- 
lem." And  his  disposition  is  completely  independent 
of  economics.  It  didn't  matter  whether  he  was  broke 

See  Next  Page — 


37 


'i^^'"'',*M^''^iMi 


He's  been  called  a  "tyrant  in  rehearsal."  It  isn't  so.  Both 
he  and  June  Taylor  (above  left)  are  perfectionists — but 
mighty  hunnan,  too.  And  what  parties  he  gives  for  the  cast! 
At  one  of  them,  pictured  below,  Audrey,  Jackie,  and  Art 
Carney  are  surrounded  by  beaming  June  Taylor  Dancers. 


MY  FRIEND,  JACKIE  CIEASON 


I 


{Continued) 


down  to  a  nickel,  or  had  five  hundred  dollars  in  his 
pocket,  Jackie  had  the  same  confidence  and  good  cheer. 
Neither  of  us  was  worth  much  in  those  days  but  our 
attitude  was  different.  If  I  had  five  bucks,  I  was  figur- 
ing how  many  hamburgers  I  could  buy  with  it.  If  Jackie 
had  five  bucks,  he'd  take  a  friend  out  for  a  steak  dinner, 
charge  the  steak  and  tip  the  waiter  with  the  five. 

Nine  years  ago,  I  was  working  as  an  all-night  deejay 
on  Station  WOR  in  New  York.  I  needed  live  guests  to 
keep  the  show  awake.  Sometimes  promotion  men 
brought  around  people  who  had  something  to  promote. 
Sometimes  they  didn't,  and  then  I  wandered  over  to 
Toots  Shor's  restaurant.  I'd  tag  a  celebrity  and  ask 
(shyly)  if  he  would  come  up  to  the  studio  and  talk. 
That's  where  I  met  Jackie  and,  at  the  time,  he  wasn't 
a  celebrity — but  just  as  funny  and  great  as  he  is  today. 
He  was  a  frequent  guest  on  my  show  and  we  became 
friends.  Jackie  and  I  had  things  (Continued  on  page  91) 


3f! 


I'll  admit  I'm  a  bit  more  athletic  than  Jackie.  After  all, 
I'm  a  "sports  editor,"  too.  I'll  also  admit  my  schedule 
seldom  leaves  time  for  anything  more  active  than  playing 
at  golf,  in  my  own  home,  or  romping  with  my  dog,  "Roger." 


My  wife  Bridle  is  my  particular  pride — though  she  didn't 
think  much  of  me  when  we  first  met!  I'm  also  proud  of  my 
show,  Meet  The  Champions,  where  I  interview  such  greats 
of  the    sports   world    as    pitcher   Sal    Maglie    (below    left). 


Jack  Lescoulie  is  seen  on  The  Jackie  Gleason  Show,  CBS-TV,  Sat., 
8  to  9  P.M.  EST,  for  Old  Gold  Cigarettes  and  Bulova  Watch  Co! 
He  stars  on  Meet  The  Champions,  NBC-TV,  Sat.,  6:45  P.M.  EST.  for 
Phillies  Cigars— and   is  also  sports  editor  of    Today    (see  page  58) 


the  importance  of  being  Claire 


Guest:  Lisa  Smith,  daughter  of  producer  Robinson 
Smith,  visits  the  McDermotts  in  New  York.  She  lives 
In   the   Virgin    Islands — their  favorite   vacation    spot. 


Gift:  Anne  presents  husband  Tom  McDermott,  ad  agency, 
executive,  with  house  slippers  she  made  herself.  Always 
busy,  she  does  needlepoint  between  scenes  at  the  studio. 


So  happily  married  herself, 
Anne  Burr  finds  that  her  role  in 
As  The  World  Turns  broadens 
her  perspective  on  life  and  acting 


By  FRANCES  KISH 


Treat:  Time  spent  together  meons  o  great  deal  to 
both  Tom  and  Anne.  She's  o  happy  housewife — unlike 
wistful  Cloire  Lowell  of  .Is  The  World  Turns,  on  TV. 


IF  YOU  have  ever  thought  how  good  it  would  be  to 
forget  alarm  clocks  and  sleep  late  every  morning— as 
actresses  are  supposed  to  do  .  .  .  and  lead  a 
marvelously  glamorous  life  every  night — as  they  are 
also  supposed  to  do  .  .  .  just  ask  Anne  Burr  about  that. 
Anne,  of  course,  is  the  creamy-blonde  with  enoi-mous 
blue  eyes  who  portrays  Claire  Lowell  in  As  The  World 
Turns,  over  CBS-TV.   Admittedly,  one  of  the  reasons 
Anne  herself  turned  to  acting,  in  her  very  early  twenties, 
was  this  promise  of  late-rising,  and  of  nights  spent 
in  the  exciting  world  of  the  theater  .  .  .  working  hard, 
to  be  sure,  but  seeing  the  world  always  at  its 
brightest  and  gayest  and  most  glittering. 

"It  was  never  quite  that  way,  even  when  I  was  still  in 
the  theater,"  she  says,   {Continued  on  page   74) 

Anne  Burr  is  Claire  Lowell  in  As  The  World  Turns,  as  seen  over 
CBS-TV.  Monday  through  Friday.  1 :30  to  2  P.M.  EST,  as  sponsored 
by   The   Prorter   &   Gamble   Company   for   Ivory   Snow   and  Oxydol. 


40 


The  Rogers  family  takes  jeep  ride  at  ranch  at  Cha+sworth.    Picture 
answers  question,  "How  many  can  a  jeep  hold?"  Answer:  "Nine." 


Big  splash!    Cheryl,   Dusty,   Dale,   Dodie  and   Debbie  dunk  in  the 
pool.   Below:  Roy  shows  sons  Sandy  and  Dusty  a  fabulous  toy  boat. 


.y^y,li..V")»— j^»"V"""<  '"'1' 


The  IVorld^s 
MEy  Family 

Sharing  their  love,  Roy  Rogers 
and  Dale  Evans  teach  their  children 
the  abiding  joy  of  sharing,  too 


From  high  point  near  their  house,  Roy  Rogers  and 
Dale  Evans  survey  their  particular  "Sod's  Country." 


Bv  DORA  ALBERT 

AT  THE  state  fairs  in  Columbus,  Ohio,  and  Des 
.  Moines,  Iowa,  a  few  months  ago,  visitors  saw 
an  extraordinary  sight.  Following  a  talk  by 
Roy  Rogers  and  Dale  Evans,  seven  children  came 
up  to  the  platform. 

Each  child  was  introduced  by  appropriate  music. 
For  the  entrance  of  Cheryl — 16,  with  light 
brown  hair  and  a  figure  that  shows  she  is  growing 
into  beautiful  womanhood — the  orchestra  played 
"The  Eyes  of  Texas"   (Cheryl  had  come  from 
an   orphanage   in   Texas).    For   Marion — 15,   and 
even  more  Scottish  than  heather — the  music  was 
"The  Campbells  Are  Coming."    Linda,  13,  and 

Continued\ 


Roy  Rogers  Dale  Evans  and  the  lucky  seven  who  make  up  the  Rogers  brood 
Left  to  right,  top  row:  Cheryl,  16;  Linda  Lou,  13;  Marion  Fleming,  15- 
Lett  to  right,  second  row:  Dodie,  4I/2;  Deborah  Lee,  4.  Bottom  row: 
bandy,  9;  Dusty,  10.  Center:  Dale  and  Roy,  with  hearts  wide  as  the  world 


43 


Dale  serves  a  hearty  meal  to  the  hungry — and  thankful — 
Rogers  clan.  Big  circular  nnaple  table  has  room  for  all, 
and  "iozy-Suson"  in  center  helps  out  with  serving  problem. 


Roy  loves  to  show  the  boys  how  to  handle  odd  repair  jobs 
around  the  ranch  in  modern  workshop.  Below:  Debbie  and 
Dodie,  youngest  of  brood,  ride  a  fast  horse  for  "menfolk." 


The  IKTorld's 


{Continued) 

Dusty,  10,  were  introduced  by  the  song, 
"California,  Here  I  Come."    Sandy— 9,  and  looking 
like  a  somewhat  smaller  replica  of  Dusty — entered 
to   the   music   of   "My   Old   Kentucky   Home."    Then 
oUve-skinned,  dark-eyed,  black-haired  Dodie— 
four,  with  three-quarters  Choctaw  Indian  blood  in 
her  veins,  and  dressed  in  full  Indian  regalia — appeared 
to  the  music  of  "Chickie  Wickie  Choctaw,"  written 
especially  for  her  by  Dale  Evans.   Finally,  there  was 
Debbie,  selected  from  800  Korean  orphans  because 
her  coloring  and  features  seemed  so  right  for  Dodie's 
sister.  She  is  also  four,  and  her  music  was  an  Oriental 
song,  especially  written  for  her  by  a  talented  arranger. 

"I  call  ours  an  international  family,"  said  Dale,  her 
green  eyes  sparkling,  as  she  surveyed  the  living  room 
of  the  unpretentious  but  beautiful  Rogers  home  in 
Chatsworth.  The  house  is  modern  ranch-style.  The 
exterior  is  a  soft  color,  half-way  between  gray  and 
beige.  The  living  room  features  flagstone  with  grayish 
beams  which  bring  out  the  colors  of  the  flagstone. 

The  living  room  is  the  hub  of  the  house,  reflecting 
the  many  interests  of  the  Rogers  family.    On  one 
side  of  the  room,  there's  a  fireplace.   Over  the  mantel 
is  a  Texas  longhorn,  which  Roy  brought  back  from 
a  rodeo  a  couple  of  years  ago,  and  on  the  mantel  are 
two  stuffed  pheasants,  shot  by  Roy  in  Marysville. 
Near  the  fireplace  is  a  television  chair,  in  the 
shape  of  a  saddle. 

On  the  left  side  of  the  fireplace  are  engraved  these 
words:   "Bless  this  house.  Oh  Lord,  we  pray.   Make 
it  safe  by  night  and  day." 

And  this  house  has  been  {Continued  on  page 88) 

Roy  Rogers  and  Dale  Evans  star  in  The  Roy  Rogers  Show,  as  seen 
over  NBC-TV,  each  Sunday,  at  6:30  P.M.  EST,  sponsored  by  Post 
Cereals,  Maxwell  House  Coffee,  Baker's  Instant  Chocolate  Mix 


I 


Sunlit  scene  at  the  corral.  Daughters  Cheryl,  Linda  Lou 
and  Marion  Fleming  sit  on  the  fence  to  kibitz,  svhile 
father  Roy  and   sons   Sandy  and   Dusty  curry  a   horse. 


Morning  exodus.    Three  older  girls  drive  car  to  school.    Dole  and  Roy  take  boys  to  military  school  near  by. 

A  deeply  religious  family,  the  Rogers' house  contains  many  All  the  Rogers  children  love  the  outdoor  life  of  the  ranch. 

places  for  prayer.  Here,  Dale  with  young  Debbie  and  Dodie.  Roy  with   Dodie,   Debbie  and   Dusty  visit  the  new  puppies. 


^/Wl&J 


WHO  DOES  IT  ALL  HERSELF 


By  MARIE  HALLER 

IF  THERE  is  one  woman  alive  qualified  to  lecture  on  the 
subject  of  "How  to  keep  fantastically  busy  and  still  accomplish 
everything"  it  is,  without  question,  Arlene  Francis  of  NBC-TV's 
Home  and  CBS-TV's  What's  My  Line?  There's  just  one  trouble  .  .  . 
like  the  paradox  she  is,  Arlene  never  lectures.    Talk? 
Yes.    Discuss?    Yes.    Lecture?    Never! 

So,  to  get  to  the  root  of  her  endless  energy,  it  becomes  necessary 
to  sift  things  out  for  yourself  ...  to  approach  Arlene  as  you 
would  a  jigsaw  puzzle,  putting  all  the  pieces  on  the  table  and 
building  until  the  picture  is  complete — or  at  least  as  complete 
as  is  possible  when  the  puzzle  happens  to  be  a  living,  breathing 
personality    overflowing   with   vitality.    {Continued    on    page! 6) 


There  are  willing  hands  to  help 
on  TV,  of  course — both  on  Home 
and  on  Sunday's  What's  My  Linef 


But,  in  private  life,  Arlene  outpaces  them  all — 
from  busy  secretary  Muriel  Fleet  to  even  busier 
husband  Martin  Gabel  (actor,  producer,  director). 


She  even  finds  time  and  energy  to  keep  up  with  a 
nine-year-old — Martin's  and  Arlene's  beloved  son 
Peter — though  his  mathematical  mind  amazes  her! 


Home  is  seen  on  NBC-TV,  Mon.  thru  Fri.,  from  10  to  11 
A.M.  EST,  under  multiple  sponsorship.  If'hut's  My  Line?  is 
seen  over  CBS-TV,  Sun.,  10:30  P.M.  EST,  as  sponsored 
by  Remington  Rand  and  .lules  Montenier,  Inc.  (Stopette). 


47 


}: 


> 


4 


<».. 


^ 


^■**— . 


\ 


Daiivn^s  Wonderful  Life 


The  delightful  teen-age  daughter  of 
Art  Linkletter  tells  how  it  feels  to 
change  from  child  into  young  charmer 
By  MAURINE  REMENIH 


Tms  IS  a  wonderful  year  for  Dawn  Linkletter, 
next  to  oldest  of  Art  Linkletter's  brood  of  five 
lively  offspring.  And  the  most  wonderful  part  of  it 
was  turning  seventeen,  just  last  December  1. 

In  Dawn's  opinion,  fifteen  is  a  "perfectly  awful" 
age.  And  sixteen  isn't  too  much  better.  "I  call  it  a 
sort  of  'not-quite'  age,"  Dawn  explains.  "You're 
'not  quite'  as  young  as  you  were,  so  it's  undignified 
to  do  a  lot  of  the  thijigs  you've  always  done  before. 
And  still  you're  'noi  quite'  old  enough  to  do  most 
of  the  things  you're  dying  (Continued  on  page  72) 

An  Linkletter's  House  Party— On  CBS-TV,  M-F,  2:30  P.M., 
for  Pillsbury  Mills,  Lever  Brothers,  Kellogg  Company,  Swift 
&  Co.,  Simoniz,  Campbell  Soup,  others — on  CBS  Radio,  M-F, 
3  P.M.,  for  Coldene,  Standard  Brands,  Swift,  Simoniz,  and 
others.  His  People  Are  Funny  is  seen  on  NBC-TV,  Sat.,  7:30 
P.M.,  for  Salem  Cigarettes  and  The  Toni  Company — heard  on 
NBC  Radio,  Wed.,  8  P.M.,  for  Anahist  and  others.  (All  EST) 


On  facing  page,  the  whole  Linkletter  fanriily!  Down 
herself  is  on  the  chair  arm  at  right.  Behind  her, 
oldest  brother  Jack.  Center,  proud  parents  Art  and 
Lois.  On  left  chair  arm,  brother  Bob,  12.  And,  in 
front,  sisters  Sharon,    10,  and  Diane,  the  youngest. 


At  seventeen,  Dawn  Linkletter's  world  is  expanding  rapidly. 
She's  learned  about  modeling,  loves  to  dance,  and  has  de- 
cided that  later  on  she  may  go  into  show  business  like  Dad. 


to  Cbra,ifi6  dolls  had  become 
real  people,  the  symbols  of 
her  loves  .  .  .  and  her  hatreds. 


:rg^>"y-^t'.'-'^:?> 

i^^^ 

i 

^^ 

j^^^^^Hi 

141 

■ 

I^^Hi 

THE  EDGE  OF  NIGHT 


A  suspense  story  about  a  terrified,  childlike  ivoman, 
gripped  by  evil  influences  she  doesn't  even  suspect — 
a  story-within-the-story  of  the  popular  daytime  drama 


HARRY  Lane  said  briskly;  "Sincerely  yours. 
That's  all  for  the  moment,  Marilyn."  Mari- 
lyn rose,  with  the  sleek  grace  of  a  wild  animal. 
Harry  Lane's  glance  went  past  her,  unseeing. 
He  appeared  completely  unaware  of  her  as  a 
woman.  Marilyn  said  in  a  businesslike  tone: 
"When  do  you  want  these  letters  ready, 
Harry?" 

"Oh — in  an  hour.  I  have  an  appointment 
later." 

She  did  not  leave.  She  tapped  her  stenog- 
rapher's notebook  lightly  against  one  hand. 
After  a  moment,  he  realized  that  she  hadn't 
left.  He  looked  up. 

"I  just  wondered,"  she  said  silkily,  "if  you 
knew  I  was  here.  There  was  a  time  when  I  was 
more  than  office  furniture,  you  know!" 

^ORA  Lane's  eyes  fixed  themselves  upon  the 
^  empty  box  the  way  they  might  have  looked 
at  a  venomous  creature.  She  began  to  tremble. 
It's  happened  again,  she  thought  desperately. 
Oh,  ifs  happened  again!  But  it  can't  he!  It 
can't  he!  I  rememher  so  distinctly! 

She  dropped  the  box  and  began  to  snatch 
open  the  other  drawers  of  the  bureau.  She 
searched  frantically,  throwing  their  contents 
helter-skelter  on  the  floor.  She  began  to  sob 
a  little.  She  searched  her  closet.  She  even 
looked  under  the  bed.  And  all  the  time,  over 
and  over  again,  the  phrase  It's  happened  again! 
repeated  itself  mockingly.  She  felt  that  she 
heard  the  words  in  Harry's  voice,  icy  cold,  and 
in  the  silken  spite  with  which  Marilyn  would 
say  them. 

Presently  she  stopped  stock-stUl,  with  her 
hands  before  her  face,  gasping  and  sobbing. 
She'd  failed  at  everything  else.  Now  it  looked 
as  though  she'd  even  failed  to  stay  sane. 

Five  minutes  earlier,  she'd  felt  wonderfully 
good.  When  she  opened  the  bureau  drawer  she 
was  smiling,  and  she  noticed  how  strange  and 
satisfying  it  was  to  smile.  This  is  the  way  to  he 
happy,  she  thought.  It  is  to  make  someone  else 
happy.  And  who  can  he  mude  happier  than  a 
child?    The  box  lay  in  the  drawer  just  where 


she'd  put  it;  pure  rapture  packed  in  tissue- 
paper  for  little  Bebe. 

This  is  the  sort  of  thing  I  can  do,  Cora  thought 
yearningly.  I  certainly  can't  fail  at  this!  But 
even  then,  when  she  was  most  confident  of  giv- 
ing pure  happiness  to  little  Bebe,  something 
close  to  terror  nibbled  at  the  edge  of  her 
thoughts.  She'd  failed  at  everything — even  at 
being  able  to  endure  failure.  If  she  let  herself 
remember  how  she'd  disgraced  herself  and 
Harry.  .  .  .  People  spoke  of  alcoholism  as  a 
disease,  but  to  her,  the  disgrace  remained.  And 
nobody  seemed  to  realize  that  failure  could 
hurt  as  much  as  pain.  It  could  be  as  terrible 
as  physical  torment.  And  she'd  suffered  un- 
ceasing failure  all  her  life,  as  victims  of  an 
incurable  disease  suffer  their  agonies. 

She  couldn't  fail  in  this,  though.  It  was  so 
simple  a  matter!  Little  Bebe  was  leaving  Mon- 
ticello  with  her  mother.  Harry  had  arranged 
it,  and  it  was  a  pang  for  Cora.  Little  Bebe  was 
the  only  person  in  the  world  to  whom  Cora  did 
not  seem  worse  than  useless.  But  no  little  girl 
would  not  feel  absolute  bliss  when  presented 
with  such  a  lovely,  silken-haired  doll  as  this, 
with  dainty  clothes  that  buttoned  and  unbut- 
toned, and  which  said  "Ma-ma"  in  the  most 
firmly  established  tradition  of  dolls. 

So  Cora  smiled  happily,  reaching  down  to 
lift  up  the  box.  After  her  baby  died  and  she 
learned  she  could  never  have  another,  she  her- 
self had  collected  dolls,  pretending  brightly  to 
all  the  world  that  it  was  a  hobby  like  collecting 
china  or  antiques.  She'd  made  a  jest  of  naming 
her  dolls  after  people  she  knew — ^Harry,  Mari- 
lyn, Jack,  Sara,  and  so  on.  But,  one  day, 
Harry'd  caught  her  actually  playing  with  them 
like  a  child — and  she  was  a  grown  woman — 
and  he  was  coldly  disgusted.  She'd  disgraced 
herself  after  she  put  them  away  for  good,  too. 
But,  when  one  knew  oneself  to  be  a  bitter  dis- 
appointment to  everybody,  sometimes  it  seemed 
very  logical  to  take  refuge  from  the  anguish 
of  failure — even  if  it  made  one  an  alcoholic. 

These  things,  though,  she  could  ignore  for 
now.   She  put  the  box  (Continued  on  page  78) 


The  Edge  Of  Night  is  seen  on  CBS-TV,  M-F,  4:30  to  5  P.M.  EST,  as  sponsored  by  Procter  &  Gamble  for  Tide,  Crest,  Camay, 
Spic  and  Span.  Lauren  Gilbert  and  Sarah  Burton  are  pictured  on  opposite  page  in  their  roles  as  Harry  and  Cora  Lane. 


A  FICTION   BONUS 


51 


To  Cora,  the  dolls  had  become 
real  people,  the  symbols  of 
her  loves  ...  and  her  hatreds. 


•4- 


\ 


^ 


). 


■S 


i         "* 


THE  EDGE  OF  NIGHT 

A  suspense  story  about  a  terrified,  childlike  ..oman, 
gripped  by  evil  influences  she  doesn't  even  suspect- 
a  story.vithin.the.story  of  the  popular  daytime  drama 


■  jARRy  Lane  said  briskly r  "Sincerely  youis. 
ri  That  s  all  for  the  moment,  Marilyn."  Mari- 
1"  ;r?'  ^*  *^  '^^^^  g-a=e  of  a  wfld  anTmal. 
Harry  Lane  s  glance  went  past  her,  unseeing. 
He  appeared  completely  unaware  of  her  as  a 
woman.    Marilyn  said  in  a  businesslike  tone: 

H^^r-      ^°"  ""^"^  *^^^  '^"^""^  ^^^^y- 

late?."""'"  ^"  ^°'"''  ^  ^^^^  ^"  appointment 
She  did  not  leave.  She  tapped  her  stenog- 
rapher s  notebook  lightly  against  one  hand. 
After  a  moment,  he  realized  that  she  hadn't 
left.  He  looked  up. 

"I  just  wondered,"  she  said  silkily,  "if  you 
knew  I  was  here.  There  was  a  time  when  I  was 
more  than  office  furniture,  you  know!" 

^ORA  Lane's  eyes  fixed  themselves  upon  the 
empty  box  the  way  they  might  have  looked 
at  a  venomous  creature.  She  began  to  tremble 
Ifs  happened  again,  she  thought  desperately. 
Oh,^  It's  happened  again!  But  it  can't  he!  It 
can't  he!  I  remember  so  distinctly! 

She  dropped  the  box  and  began  to  snatch 
open  the  other  drawers  of  the  bureau.  She 
searched  frantically,  throwing  their  contents 
helter-skelter  on  the  floor.  She  began  to  sob 
a  little.  She  searched  her  closet.  She  even 
looked  under  the  bed.  And  all  the  time,  over 
and  over  again,  the  phrase  I^s  happened  again' 
repeated  itself  mockingly.  She  felt  that  she 
heard  the  words  in  Harry's  voice,  icy  cold,  and 
in  the  silken  spite  with  which  Marilyn  would 
say  them. 

Presently  she  stopped  stock-still,  with  her 
hands  before  her  face,  gasping  and  sobbing. 
She'd  failed  at  everything  else.  Now  it  looked 
as  though  she'd  even  failed  to  stay  sane. 

Five  minutes  earlier,  she'd  felt  wonderfully 
good.  When  she  opened  the  bureau  drawer  she 
was  smiling,  and  she  noticed  how  strange  and 
satisfying  it  was  to  smile.  This  is  the  way  to  be 
happy,  she  thought.  It  is  to  make  someone  else 
happy.  And  who  can  he  made  happier  than  a 
child?    The  box  lay  in  the  drawer  just  where 


ff^  ^"'/•I'.P'i,''^,  ^P*"""^  P^'^'^^d  in  tissue- 
paper  for  little  Bebe. 

This  is  the  sort  of  thing  I  can  do,  Cora  thought 
yearningly.  I  certainly  can't  fail  at  this!  But 
even  then,  when  she  was  most  confident  of  siv- 
mg  pure  happiness  to  little  Bebe,  something 
close  to  terror  nibbled  at  the  edge  of  her 
thoughts  She'd  failed  at  everything-even  at 
bemg  able  to  endure  failure.  If  she  let  herself 
remember  how  she'd  disgraced  herself  and 
Harry.  .  .  .  People  spoke  of  alcoholism  as  a 
disease,  but  to  her,  the  disgrace  remained.  And 
nobody  seemed  to  realize  that  failure  could 
hurt  as  much  as  pain.  It  could  be  as  terrible 
as  physical  torment.  And  she'd  suffered  un- 
ceasing failure  all  her  life,  as  victims  of  an 
incurable  disease  suffer  their  agonies. 

She  couldn't  fail  in  this,  though.  It  was  so 
simple  a  matter!  Little  Bebe  was  leaving  Mon- 
ticello  with  her  mother.  Harry  had  arranged 
it,  and  it  was  a  pang  for  Cora.  Little  Bebe  was 
the  only  person  in  the  world  to  whom  Cora  did 
not  seem  worse  than  useless.  But  no  little  girl 
would  not  feel  absolute  bliss  when  presented 
with  such  a  lovely,  silken-haired  doll  as  this, 
with  dainty  clothes  that  buttoned  and  unbut- 
toned, and  which  said  "Ma-ma"  in  the  most 
firmly  established  tradition  of  dolls. 

So  Cora  smiled  happily,  reaching  down  to 
lift  up  the  box.   After  her  baby  died  and  she 
learned  she  could  never  have  another,  she  her- 
self had  collected  dolls,  pretending  brightly  to 
all  the  world  that  it  was  a  hobby  like  collecting 
china  or  antiques.  She'd  made  a  jest  of  naming 
her  doUs  after  people  she  knew — Harry,  Mari- 
lyn,  Jack,    Sara,    and    so    on.    But,    one    day, 
Hany'd  caught  her  actually  playing  with  them 
like  a  child — and  she  was  a  grown  woman — 
and  he  was  coldly  disgusted.    She'd  disgraced 
herself  after  she  put  them  away  for  good,  too. 
But,  when  one  knew  oneself  to  be  a  bitter  dis- 
appointment to  everybody,  sometimes  it  seemed 
very  logical  to  take  refuge  from  the  anguish 
of  failure — even  if  it  made  one  an  alcoholic. 

These  things,  though,  she  could   ignore  for 
now.   She  put  the  box  (Continued  on  poge  78) 


The  Edge  Of  Night  is  seen  on  CBS-TV,  M-F,  4 :30  to  5  P.M.  EST,  as  sponsored  by  Procter  &  GamMe  for  Tide,  Crcsl.  Camay, 
Spic  and  Span.  Lauren  Gilbert  and  Sarah  Burton  are  pictured  on  opposite  page  in  their  roles  as  Harry  and  Cora  l.ane. 


A  FICTION  BONUS 


TIM  fakes  a  Spin 


By  BUD  GOODE 


There's  a  reason  why  youthful,  appealing  Tim  Considine  was 
immediately  accepted  into  the  hearts  of  teen-age  America,  from  the 
first  moment  he  appeared  in  "Spin  and  Marty"  on  Walt  Disney's 
Mickey  Mouse  Cluh,  over  ABC-TV.  Two  reasons,  to  be  exact — one  for 
boys,  and  one  for  girls.   Boys  find  Tim  a  regular  fellow,  a  down-to-earth 
guy  who  goes  for  football,  baseball  and  sports  cars.    Girls  swoon 
over  his  clean-cut,  blond,  blue-eyed,  American-boy  good  looks — their 
fan  mail  most  frequently  describes  Tim  as  "a  real  dreamboat!" 

Just  sixteen — as  of  December  31,  1956—- Tim  himself  would  be  the 
first  to  disclaim  that  "dreamboat"  tag.   (Continued  on  page  70) 


On  TV  in  Disney's 
Mickey  Mouse  Club,  on  the 
road  in  his  cherished  cart, 
young  Mr.  Considine 
is  having  himself  a  time 


Tim  is  Spin  in  "The  Further  Adventures  of  Spin  and  Marty,"  on  Walt  Disney's  Mickey 
Mouse  Cluh,  as  seen  on  ABC-TV,  M-F,  5  to  6  P.M.  EST,  under  multiple  sponsorship. 


."52 


,^' 


is:->. 


if 


Durward  Kirby  in  the  role  which  suits  him  best  of  all — as  devoted 
husbond  of  "Pax"  (nee  Mary  Paxton  Young)  and  proud  father  of  Dennis, 
7,  and  Randy,  14,  in  their  suburban  home  not  far  from  New  York  City. 


55 


Acting  as  fomily  chauffeur  is   Pax's  biggest  job.    Even 
Durward  has  to  run  to  keep  up  with  the  busy  Mrs.  Kirby! 


Call  those  trees?    "Cappy,"   the   cocker,    pines   for  the 
glorious  tangle  of  woods  near  the  Kirbys'  vacation  home. 


(Continued) 


in  the  country,  too,  and  the  woods  and  the  water  and  all 
the  fun  that  goes  with  them.  But  boredom  happens  to 
be  something  they  never  have  time  for,  no  matter  where 
they're  set  down.  For  this  is  one  of  the  busiest  house- 
holds to  be  found  anywhere.  There  are  always  at  least 
four  new  projects  being  carried  on  at  one  time — one  by 
each  member  of  the  family — ^plus  other  projects  about 
to  be  carried  out. 
For  two  years  in  a  row,  Durward  has  been  taking  a 


shop  course  in  woodworking  and  cabinet  making.  He 
gave  it  up,  regretfully,  only  this  year,  because  of  a  time 
conflict  with  some  of  the  TV  shows  on  which  he  does 
the  commercials.  But  he  has  always  been  a  born  Mr. 
Fix-It  and,  for  a  long  time.  Pax  suspected  that  he  almost 
enjoyed  seeing  things  get  broken,  just  so  he  could  have 
the  fun  of  repairing  them.  One  of  his  greatest  triumphs 
of  repair  and  re-doing  is  an  old  roll-top  desk  which  a 
junkman  demanded  ten  dollars  (Continued  on  page  84) 


fl 


The  Garry  Moore  Show  is  seen  over  CBS-TV,  Mon.  thru  Thurs.,  10  to  10:30  A.M.  EST,  Fri.,  10  to  11:30  A.M.,  under  multiple  sponsorship. 


Hobbies    are    their    specialty,    and 
painting  is  one  of  Pax's  "projects." 


Randy    likes    to     collect    little     glass 
hats,  among  other  fascinating  objects. 


Dennis  never  misses  anything.  He 
is  a  born  Mr.  Fix-It,  like  his  dad. 


Music  is  their  joy, 
when  not  working  on 
other  projects.  But 
they  don't  just  sit 
and  listen — they  play. 


Outdoor  sports  belong  to  the  vacation  home.    But,  year  around, 
Durward  enjoys  collecting — and  admiring — old  gufis  for  his  walls. 


Pax  knows  antiques  like  a   "pro,"    makes   many  a 
find  which  turns  out  to  be  a  prize  when  restored. 


Acting  as  family  chauffeur  is   Pax's  biggest  job.    Even 
Durward  has  to  run  to  Iteep  up  with  the  busy  Mrs.  Kirby! 


Call  those  trees?  "Cappy,"  the  cocker,   pines  for  the 
glorious  tangle  of  woods  near  the  KIrbys'  vacation  home. 


Time    Slilm^lng  HoM^a-s 

(Continued) 


in  the  country,  too,  and  the  woods  and  the  water  and  all 
the  fun  that  goes  with  them.  But  boredom  happens  to 
be  something  they  never  have  time  for,  no  matter  where 
they're  set  down.  For  this  is  one  of  the  busiest  house- 
holds to  be  found  anywhere.  There  are  always  at  least 
four  new  projects  being  carried  on  at  one  time — one  by 
each  member  of  the  family — plus  other  projects  about 
to  be  carried  out. 
For  two  years  in  a  row,  Durward  has  been  taking  a 


shop  course  in  woodworking  and  cabinet  making.  He 
gave  it  up,  regretfully,  only  this  year,  because  of  a  time 
conflict  with  some  of  the  TV  shows  on  which  he  does 
the  commercials.  But  he  has  always  been  a  born  Mr. 
Fix-It  and,  for  a  long  time,  Pax  suspected  that  he  almost 
enjoyed  seeing  things  get  broken,  just  so  he  could  have 
the  fun  of  repairing  them.  One  of  his  greatest  triumphs 
of  repair  and  re-doing  is  an  old  roll-top  desk  which  a 
junkman  demanded  ten  dollars  (Continued  on  page  84) 


The  Garry  Moore  Show  is  seen  over  CBS-TV,  Mon.  thru  Thurs.,  10  to  10:30  A.M.  EST,  Fri.,  10  to  11:30  A.M.,  under  multiple  sponsorship. 


Hobbies    are    their    specialty,    and 
painting  is  one  of  Pox's  "projects." 


Randy    likes    to    collect    little    glass 
hats,  among  other  fascinating  objects. 


Dennis  never  misses  anything.  He 
is  a  born  Mr.   Fix-It,  like  his  dod. 


Music  Is  their  joy, 
when  not  working  on 
other  projects.  But 
they  don't  just  sit 
and  listen — they  play. 


Outdoor  sports  belong  to  the  vacation  home.    But,  year  around 
Durward  en,oys  collecting-and  odmiring-old  guA;  for  his  wal": 


Pax  knows  antiques  like  a   "pro,"   makes   many  a 
tind  which  turns  out  to  be  a  prize  when  restored. 


No  Doubt  about  LOVE 


Today  s  working  hours  could  keep 
a  man  a  bachelor  forever—hut  not 
after  Dave  Garroway  met  Pamela ! 


Four  A.M.  is  no  hour  to  rise  and  shine.  Dave  does  it,  with  no 
little  reluctance,  lots  of  help  from  time-keeping,  labor-saving 
gadgets  by  his  bed.  Yet,  with  all  the  hours  he  spends  on  Today 
and  Wide  Wide  World,  he  never  tires  of  TV,  loves  to  watch  it. 


Dave  Garroway  is  seen  on  Today,  NBC-TV,  M-F,  7  to  9  A.M.,  under  mul- 
tiple sponsorship — and  Wide  Wide  World,  NBC-TV,  every  other  Sun.,  from 
4  to  5:30  P.M.,  as  sponsored  by  A.C.  Spark  Plug,  United  Motors  Service 
and  other  divisions  of  General  Motors  Corp.  He's  heard  Sundays  on  the 
7-to-lO  P.M.  segment  of  Monitor,  NBC  Radio's  weekend  service.  (All  EST) 


Dave  has  many  hobbies — doubly  enjoyable 
when  he  shares  them  with  his  bride.  Here 
a  globe,  the  New  York  wall-map,  the  "wire 
mon"  who  welcomed  Pamela  to  her  new  home. 


58 


Newlyweds  Pamela  and  Dave  are  living  on  top  of  the  world, 
in  their  penthouse  above  Park  Avenue.  But,  when  it  comes  to 
eating,  they  get  down  to  earth — or,  at  least,  floor  •level. 
Their  favorite   "dining   spot"    is   the    low-slung   coffee   table. 


By  MARTIN  COHEN 

HE  WAS  a  veritable  Gibraltar  of  bachelorhood. 
So,  when  Dave  Garroway  married  late 
last  summer,  there  was  a  scurrying 
throughout  the  land  as  pale  and  shaken 
bachelors  hurriedly  barricaded  doors  and  strove 
to  regain  their  morale.  But  Garroway's 
marriage  had  quite  a  different  effect  on  the 
many,  many  admirers  who  regard  him  with  a 
great  deal  of  affection,  mingled  with  typically 
feminine  concern.  For  them,  there  was  only 
one  question.  "What  kind  of  a  girl,"  they 
wanted  to  know,  "did  our  Dave  marry?" 

Here's  the  answer — in  person.  She's  a 
beauty,  a  slender  five -foot-five  with  reddish 
brown  hair  and  big,  blue-moon  eyes.  She  is 
the   former   Marquise   de   Coninck,   nee 
Pamela  Wilde.  She  came  by  the  title  in  her 
first  marriage  abroad.  She  grew  up  in  Paris, 
but  her  parents  are  U.S.  citizens  and  Pamela 
talks  like  a  true  native  American.  She  is 
a  fine  cook  and  an    (Continued  on  page  68) 


-l^rMO'S   T^^MO    OI%r 


Lester  Fletcher 


MASTER  of  dialects  by  both  birth  and  breeding, 
Lester  was  an  ideal  choice  for  Julie's  devoted 
admirer,  Andre  Martel,  professor  at  Madison  City 
College.   Born  in  Cardiff,  Wales,  he  began  his 
schooling   in   France,    then    Switzerland,   before 
returning  to  England.   He  studied  at  the  Royal 
Academy  of  Dramatic  Art  in  London,  and  privately 
in  Berlin,  where  he  played  on  stage  with  Emil 
Jannings.  .   .  .  Lester's  knowledge  of  languages 
was  especially  valuable  during  the  war,  when  he 
served  as  a  radio  director  for  the  U.S.  Office 
of  War  Information,    Since  then,  he's  been  active 
on  stage  and  screen,  here  and  abroad,  as  well 
as  radio -TV.  .  .  .  Like  Casey  Allen,  he's  a  champ 
skier,  hi-fi  and  camera  bug.    Casey's  favorite 
models  are  the  little  Aliens.    Bachelor  Lester's 
favorites  are  his  dogs  and  cat — all  jet-black.    He 
can  cook  superbly  in  French,  Italian  and 
Austrian.   In  his  more  British  guise,  Lester  is  heard 
as  Arthur  Brinthrope  in  Our  Gal  Sunday. 


Jan  Miner 

'E'ach  ¥Ear,  our  readers  vote  for  their  "favorite  day- 
-"^  time  radio  actress."    Six  years  in  a  row,  that 
coveted  TV  Radio  Mirror  Award  has  gone  to  the 
lovely  lady  best  known  as  Julie  Nixon,  head  of  the 
orphanage  called  Hilltop  Housel  .  .  .  It's  a  delightfully 
ironic  twist  to  the  story  of  a  Boston  girl  who  prepared 
for  a  theatrical  career  behind  the  scenes,  rather 
than  as  a  performer.   Jan  studied  set  designing  at  the 
Vesper  George  Art  School,  went  on  to  continue  her 
apprenticeship   in    summer   stock,   and   there — at   the 
Cambridge    (Mass.)    Strawhat   Theater— found    herself 
on  stage,  an  actress  by  true  "popular  demand."   Her 
radio  debut  in  a  program  dramatizing  marital 
problems,  on  Boston's  Station  WNAC,  opened  the  door 
to  a  career  which  has  seen  her  starring  on  the  top 
TV  dramatic  playhouses   (notably,  Robert  Montgoraery 
Presents),  as  well  as  the  best-loved  daytime  serials 
(Jan's  also  heard  in  the  title  role  of  The  Second  Mrs. 
Burton).  .  .  .  Her  husband  is  the  well-known  actor, 
Terry  O'SuUivan — who  has  played  opposite  her  in  a 
previous   episode   in   the   story   of  Hilltop   House. 


wm>.? 


60 


Casey  Allen 


^ToDAY,  he's  a  great  success  as  David  Baxter,  the 

eminent  psychologist  who  has  become  so  important 
in  Julie  Nixon's  life.    But  Casey  once  worked  for 
peanuts — literally.    Of  course,  he  was  only  six,  working 
as  unofficial  delivery  boy  for  a  neighborhood  grocer 
back  in  Minneapolis.   And  he  only  collected  one  pound 
of  "wages"  before  his  doctor  dad  lowered  the  boom  on 
that  peanut-packed  diet!  .  .  .  Later,  Casey  himself 
took  pre-medical  courses  at  Minnesota  U. — but  with 
extra-curricular  emphasis  on  athletics.    He  tried  out 
for  football,  was  a  tennis  and  swimming  champ,  skier  and 
polo  player.   Dramatics  lured  him,  too,  and  he  soon 
switched   to   the   Pasadena   Playhouse    in    California. 
There,  he  just  missed  crossing  paths  with  Fran  Carlon, 
who  later  became  a  famous  radio-TV  star — and  Mrs. 
Casey  Allen.    They  met  in  mid-career,  married  in  1946, 
now  have  a  daughter,  Keiry,  10,  and  son,  Kim,  8. 
.  .  .  Jack  Rubin,  director  of  Eilltop  House  and  a  great 
believer  in  husband-wife  teams,  is  looking  forward 
to  the  time  when  he  can  cast  Fran  in  a  role  with 
Casey,  as  he  did  with  Jan  and  Terry   O'Sullivan. 


Ethel  Everett 


fiHE  LOVES  her  role  as  Hannah,  the  orphanage 
•^  housekeeper.    "To  me,"  says  Ethel,  "Hannah 
represents  all  the  warmth  and  womanly  intuitiveness 
so  often  found  in  an  uneducated  but  innately  good 
person."   And  she  finds  a  very  touching  humor 
in  Hannah's  struggles  with  the  English  language. 
.  .  .  Ethel  herself  was  born  in  New  York,  got  her 
bachelor's  degree  at  Hunter  and  her  master's 
at  Teachers'  College.    But  she  admits,   "As  far 
back  as  I  can  remember,  I  always  wanted  to  act." 
She  finally  overcame  parental  opposition  to  a 
theatrical  career,  did  some  Broadway  plays,  and 
has  now  been  in  radio  for  twenty  years.  .  .  . 
The  first  woman  narrator  of  a  daytime  serial,  Ethel 
was  also  the  first  woman  chosen  to  record 
full-length  books  for  the  American  Foundation 
for  the  Blind.    She's  the  official  voice  for 
Helen  Keller — who  gave  her  this  inscription: 
"To   Ethel   Everett,   whose   vivid  intelligence   has 
caught  the  inner  meaning  of  my  story." 


See  Next  Page- 


61 


(Continued) 


Bobby  Readick 


ONCE  HE  WAS  "little  Bobby,"  but  that  was  when 
he  started  out  in  radio,  at  the  age  of  ten,  in 
The   O'Neills.    That  early,  much-loved   family  drama 
was  directed  by  the  man  who  also  pilots  Hilltop 
House— and  Bobby  played  many  an  orphan  there,  ^^ 
while  he  was  growing  up.    Now  thirty-one,  he's    'Dr. 
Robbie,"  having  been  graduated  to  the  more  mature 
role  of  Dr.  Jeff's  assistant.  .  .  .  He's  also  a  medico, 
though  not  nearly  such  a  sympathetic  one, 
as  Dr.  Ted  Mason  in  Young  Dr.  Malone.   Bobby  has 
played  a  much  wider  variety  of  roles,  juvenile  and^^ 
adult,  on  stage    ("George  Washington  Slept  Here"), 
screen  ("The  CanterviHe  Ghost"),  TV  (The  Big  Story) 
and  radio  (FBI  In  Peace  And  War)— to  mention  only 
a  few  of  his  credits.  .  .  .  Manhattan-born  Bobby 
comes  from  a  truly  theatrical  family.   Not  only  both 
his  parents  but  all  four  of  his  grandparents  were 
actors!    The  chain  will  be  broken  this  spring, 
however,  when  Bobby  and  his  wife  Barbara  welcome 
their  first  child.    Barbara's  a  "non-professional." 


Janice  Gilbert 

Tras  CHARMING  lass  with  red-brown  hair  and 
impish  green  eyes  is  another  discovery  who 
began  as  a  child  on  The  O'Neills  and  Hilltop  House, 
then  grew  up  into  a  major  adult  role.   Now 
heard  as  Nina  Browning,  Julie  Nixon's  cousin 
and  Dr.  Jeff's  wife,  Janice  has  packed  a  lot  of 
rich  experience  into  the  few  brief  years  since  she 
left  her  native  Florida.  ...  On  radio,  she 
followed  Nancy  Kelly  in  the  title  role  of  Little 
Orphan  Annie,  appeared  with  such  headliners  as 
Kate  Smith  and  Eddie  Cantor,  as  well  as  in  many  a 
daytime  drama.   On  TV,  she  plays  the  most 
exciting  part  of  all,  giving  away  millions  of  dollars 
as  the  paying  teller  for  Break  The  $250,000  Bankl 
.  .  .  Janice  got  into  show  business  early,  but 
discovered  a  lifelong  hobby  a  whole  year  earlier. 
She  started  playing  bridge  at  seven.  Now,  both 
she  and  her  husband,  Tobias  Stone,  are  of 
championship  caliber  and  play  in  major  tourna- 
ments, such  as  the  recent  one  at  Las  Vegas  for  the 
benefit  of  the  Damon  Runyon  Cancer  Fund. 


VibSX 


^ 


Hilltop  House,  a  Wolf  Associates  production,  is  heard  over 
NBC  Radio,  M-F,  3:30  P.M.  EST,  for  Miles  Laboratories,  Inc. 
(One-A-Day  Vitamin  Tablets),  Quaker  Oats,  other  sponsors. 


62 


KfW^"  Ir      "^ 


^C;^^ 


Pamela  Fitzmaurice 


t>        ^- 


M»» 


PAMELA  was  "discovered" — at  a  very  early  age! — 
by  the  late  Mayor  LaGuardia.    It  was  on  Nov.  21, 
1944,  that  LaGuardia  looked  at  his  watch  during  a 
rally  and  announced  he'd  give  a  War  Bond  to  any 
baby  born  at  that  precise  moment  in  the  New  York 
City  area.    Pamela,  daughter  of  a  Brooklyn  lawyer 
and  Navy  officer,  was  the  much-phbtographed  winner. 
.  .  .  Eight  years  later,  she  made  her  acting  debut  on 
Hilltop  House,  where  she's  now  heard  as  Maryann. 
She's  done  a  few  films  and  many  TV  shows,  is  currently 
seen  as  Susan,  the  little  girl  who  lives  next 
door  to  Mr.  Wizard.  ...  A  brilliant  student,  she 
thinks  she'd  like  to  be  a  history  teacher  or  an  author. 
That  Pamela  can  write  was  proved  when  she  won  a 
city-wide  essay  contest  on  fire  prevention — and  received  . 
a  gold  medal  from  the  present  mayor  of  New  York! 


Michael  Mann 

AT  FOURTEEN,  Mike's  a  show-business  veteran, 
fully  capable  of  coping  with  the  very  dramatic 
problems  which  face  young  "Biff"  on  Hilltop 
House.   Beginning  as  a  child  model  before  he  was 
six  years  old,  Mike  got  his  first  big  radio 
break  on  the  original  Cavalcade  Of  America. 
Since  then,  he's  had  many  featured  roles  in  the 
most  famous  radio  series,  and  has  made  more  than 
200  appearances  on  TV.  .  .  .  Despite  his  acting 
success,  Mike — like  Pamela — has  other  ambitions 
for  the  future.    He's  studying  hard  as  a  sophomore 
at  the  Professional  Children's  School  in  New 
York  City,  preparing  for  the  day  when  he  can  enroll 
as  a  pre-medical  student  at  the  University  of 
California  at  Los  Angeles.  He  wants  to  be  a  surgeon. 
Meanwhile,   he's   a   great   sports   enthusiast, 
loves  baseball  and  horseback  riding.    He's  also 
a  Boy  Scout,  and  woxild  like  to  play  the  drums. 


Cathleen  Cordell 

BORN  Kathleen  Kelly  in  Brooklyn,  she  got  all  her 
education  and  won  her  first  fame  overseas.  Father 
was  a  mining  engineer,  so  she  went  to  school  in 
India,  France,  Italy — and  England,  where  she  attended 
the  Royal  Academy  of  Dramatic  Art.  .  .  .  She  acted 
on  both  stage  and  screen  in  plays  by  George  Bernard 
Shaw,  and  it  was  he  who  suggested  that  she  change 
her  name  professionally.    She  borrowed  part  of 
the  new  one  from  America's   Secretary   Cordell  Hull, 
then  i-e-spelled  Kathleen  to  harmonize.   .   .   . 
Cathleen  has  now  appeared  on  most  of  Anierica's 
major  radio-TV  programs,  still  finds  it  odd  that, 
after  playing  the  sweet  heroine  in  England,  she  is  so 
often  cast  as  "the  other  woman" — as  in  her  present 
role  as  Deborah,  David  Baxter's  estranged  wife. 


I 


63 


BEAUTY  IN  ALL  WEATHER 


Phil  Silvers'  fetching  WAC 
has  a  secret  weapon 
for  combating  the  ravages 
of  wind  and  weather 

By  MARY  SHERWOOD 


.  HE  SPRIGHTLY,  bright-eyed  blonde  who  tan- 
talizes Sergeant  Bilko  in  The  Phil  Silvers  Show, 
"You'll  Never  Get  Rich,"  is  one  fair-skinned 
girl  who  knows  how  to  keep  her  complexion 
soft  and  supple  .  .  .  her  hands  unchapped  and 
satiny  .  .  .  and  her  hairdo  sleek  through  the 
windiest  of  winters. 

Elisabeth  Fraser  describes  herself  as  "es- 
sentially an  indoor  type,"  but  she  prefers  the 
brisk,  astringent  atmosphere  of  her  native  New 
York  to  the  balmy  languor  of  Los  Angeles  and 
environs,  where  "the  living's  too  easy."  She's 
also  a  busy  type:  Wife  to  a  talented  writer, 
star  of  stage,  screen  and  TV,  mother  of  three! 

All  this  activity  keeps  "indoorsy"  Elisabeth 
out  and  about  in  fair  weather  and  foul — which 
is  how  she  came  to  devise  her  personal  formula 
for  making  beauty  weatherproof. 

"My  secret  weapon  is  really  very  simple," 
she  says.  "I  just  make  it  a  rule  never  to  go  out 
without  my  'windshields'!"  She  shields  her  face 
and  throat  with  a  thin,  fragrant  film  of  an 
emollient  lotion  designed  to  restore  the  youth- 
ful moisture  to  wind-dried  skins.  At  night,  she 
washes  up  with  scads  of  creamy  soapsuds, 
rinses  her  face  in  warm  water,  then  cold,  and 
finishes  with  an  application  of  overnight  cream 
— massaged  in  gently  (to  stimulate  winter-slow 
circulation)  till  it  almost  disappears.  Her  com- 
plexion always  has  a  clear,  glowing,  freshly - 
laundered  look,  even  on  blustery  days. 

Elisabeth  provides  her  small,  pretty  hands 
with  a  double  windshield  of  lotion,  plus  soft 
leather  gloves — "I  wear  them  invariably,  when- 
ever I  go  out,  from  September  on."  She  has 
a  fondness  for  fine  leather  and  was  sheepishly 
pleased  when  her  husband  presented  her  with 
some  extravagant  gloves  she'd  admired  in  Italy 
— "not  one  pair  but  two  dozen,  all  in  different, 
delicious  shades!" 

Her  close-cropped  cornsilk  hair  (cut  to  con- 
form to  WAC  regulations,  for  her  role  as 
M/Sgt.  Joan  Hogan),  is  weatherproof,  too! 
Elisabeth  often  dashes  out  bare-headed  (the 
Hollywood  influence,  perhaps)  .  .  .  but,  before 
she  sallies  forth,  she  combs  her  casual  waves 
into  perfect  alignment  and  then  fixes  them  in 
place  with  scented  hair-spray.  Result:  a  well- 
coiffed  "WAC"  .  .  .  and  a  wind-resistant  woman! 


64 


Elisabeth  keeps  as  young  and  fresh 
looking  as  her  own  three  daughters 
—Pot's    10,    Meg's   8,    and    Liza's   7. 


NOW  THEY  ARE   RIVE 


WORL's  deejay  Dave  Maynard 
remembers  a  summ,er  art  class 
and  a  Christm,as  phone  call 


Dave  got  into  radio  on  a  dare,  but  he  didn't  have  to  be  told  twice 
obout  Joan.  Mii<e,  Meredith  and  baby  Marney  complete  the  quintet. 


A  COLLEGE  DARE  ...  a  Summer  art  class  ...  a  Christmas 
phone  call  .  .  .  there  you  have  the  story  of  Dave 
Maynard.      A    handsome,    crew-cut    twenty-six-year-old, 
Dave  is  heard   over  Boston's   Station  WORL,   Monday 
through  Saturday  from  2  to  6  P.M.,  spinning  the  current 
hits  and  a  few  of  his  personal  favorites.     Thousands 
of  New  Englanders   belong   to   Dave   Maynard   fan   clubs 
and,  according  to  the  Nielsen  ratings,  he  has  the  largest 
listenership  in  the  New  England  area.  ...  A  native 
New  Yorker,  Dave  was  a  drama  major  at  Emerson  College, 
when  a   friend  dared  him  to   audition   for   WERS,   the 
college  station.     Dave  took  the  dare  and  won  himself  a 
new  career.    He  went  on  to  take  a  master's  degree  at 
Boston  University   and   to   do   a   three-year   broadcasting 
stint   for   Medford's   WHIL.     Then   came    "the    greatest 
Christmas   present   I   ever  received."     It   was   Christmas, 
1954,  when  WORL  called  Dave  and  asked  him  how  he'd 
like  to  take  over  the  major  afternoon  slot,  beginning 
January  1.   For  the  first  time,  Dave  was  struck  speechless. 
When  he  found  his  voice,  he  answered  in  the  affirmative 
and  started  packing  to  return  to  Boston.  .  .  .  By  this 
time,  Dave  had  a  family  to  bring  with  him.  Dave  is  married 
to  the  former  Joan  Cotter,  whom  he  met  at  a  summer 
session  Fine  Arts  Class  at  Emerson  College.    Dave  arrived 
for  the  class  one  day  late.    Had  he  not  showed  up,  there 
wouldn't  have  been  a  class.     There  were  five  people  in  it, 
and  they  needed  a  sixth.    Says  Dave,  "I  got  an  A  and  a 
wife  and  three  kids  out  of  it."     In  appreciation,  Dave 
teaches   at   nights   at   Emerson   and,    during   the    summer 
session,  is  also  a  pedagogue  at  the  Northeast  School  of 
Radio  and  Television.     But  his  aptest  pupil  is  son  Mike, 
four,  whom  Dave  has  interviewed  on  the  air  on  several 
occasions.     "If  I  don't  cut  it  out,"  Dave  grins,  "he'll  have 
my  job."     Daughter  Meredith,   three,   thinks  daddy's 
show  is  "tewwific."    With  the  October  arrival  of  Marney 
Melissa,  the  Maynards  are  now  five,  but  she  isn't  talking — - 
yet.    .    .    .    The    Maynards'    barn-red    ranch    house    is 
furnished  with  colonial  pieces — plus  a  brand-new  hi-fi 
which  Dave   won  in   a  national   deejay   contest  to   name 
Sammy   Davis,   Jr.'s   new   record   album.     Dave    "flips" 
over  jazz  flute,  Art  Tatum  piano,  and  Four  Freshman 
harmonies.    New  England  flips  over  Dave  Maynard. 


Between  records,  there's  hunnor  that  makes 
sense,   talk   that's   individual   and   friendly. 


Stars  such  as  singer  Jerry  Vale  visit  Dave.    Son 
Mike,  an  amateur,  guests  with  dad  like  a  "pro." 


65 


Johnny  Andrews  just  likes  people 
— and  people  just  can't  help  liking 
Johnny  s-come-lively  programs 


Big  Chief  among  young  or  old,  on  radio  or  TV,  Johnny 
now  numbers  60,000  in  his  National  Radio  Fan  Club. 


IT  JUST  COMES  NATURAL 


SUCCESS  was  the  most  natural  thing  in  the  world  for 
Johnny  Andrews.  It  fits  like  a  favorite  tweed  jacket 
and  he  wears  it  that  way,  interweaving  nonchalance 
with  honesty,  sincerity  with  geniality.  Ask  around  his 
old  haunts  in  Cleveland,  or  his  new  stamping  grounds 
in  Manhattan,  and  they'll  tell  you  that  Johnny  is   "a 
nice    guy,    perhaps    the    nicest    in    the    business."    Ask 
Johnny  and  he  says  simply,  "When  you're  on  radio  and 
TV  as  much  as  I  am,  day  after  day,  you  can't  be  phony. 
You  must  let  your  own  personality  guide  you.   It's  a 
natural  thing."  .  .  .  Each  Friday  evening,  from  8: 30  to 
9:45  on  the  NBC  Radio  network,  Johnny   emcees  the 
National  Radio  Fan  Club.  He's  joined  by  top  recording 
stars  as  guests  and  by  such  regulars  as  Johnny  Guarneri 
providing  "live"  music  and  "Mr.  Jukes"  providing  fast- 
talking  reports  of  the  Number  One  records  in  various 
cities.   Weekday   afternoons   at   one,   he   plays   records, 
interviews    guests,    sings,    plays    piano    and    celeste — 
separately  or  simultaneously — on  The  Johnny  Andrews 
Show   on   New   York's   WRCA.    Weekday    evenings   at 
5:30,  he  hosts  a  feature  film  on  Evening  Theater,  over 
WRCA-TV.  To  do  these  shows,  Johnny  migrated  from 
Cleveland,    where    civic    leaders    once    presented    him 
with  a  key  to  the  city.  But  the  door  was  wide  open, 
anyway,  when  Johnny  decided  to  fly  back  each  Satur- 
day to  head-  up  the  Old  Dutch  Review,  seen  at  7  P.M. 
on   the   "Old   Dutch  Network"    (WEWS   in   Cleveland, 
WSTD-TV  in  Toledo,  WTVN  in  Columbus,  and  WIMA- 
TV  in  Lima).  .  .  .  "It  just  came  natural,"  Johnny  says. 
Born  in  Boston,  he's  been  playing  piano  since  the  age 
of  five.  He  studied  at  the  New  England  Conservatory, 
played    with    the    orchestras    of    Johnny    Long,    Rudy 
Vallee  and  Buddy  Clark.  He  likens  his  own  singing  style 


to  Buddy's  but  he  began  singing  while  with  Rudy  Vallee. 
When  the  long-memoried  Vallee  couldn't  remember 
songs  requested  by  the  audience,  Johnny  could.  .  -  . 
His  first  appearance  on  his  own  was  at  the  Cocoanut 
Grove  in  Boston.  Johnny  left  to  try  New  York  and 
radio— just  in  time  to  miss  the  fatal  night-club  hre  He 
was  in-the-air  as  an  Army  pilot  during  the  war,  then, 
after  working  as  a  singer-pianist  in  night  spots^  went 
back  on-the-air  with  such  popular  shows  as  NBC-TV  s 
Easy  Does  It  and,  in  Cleveland,  Johnny  Sings  For  Your 
Supper  and  Morning  Bandwagon.  With  all  this  air- 
waves singing  and  playing,  he  didn't  get  around  to 
recording  until  this  year,  when  he  made  "Marriage  and 
Divorce"  and  "Stephanie"  on  the  RKO-Unique  label. 
.  .  .  Johnny  makes  some  five  hundred  personal  appear- 
ances each  year  in  the  cause  of  public  service.  Most 
memorable  was  a  Pennsylvania  beauty  contest  m  1951, 
when  he  was  a  judge  along  with  Betti  Pearson,  who  d 
been  Miss  Kentucky  two  years  before.  Betti,  a  stunning 
blonde,  was  "going  pretty  steady"  with  Joe  DiMaggio 
at  the  time.  But,  at  about  the  same  time,  Joe  was  in- 
volved in  a  World  Series.  "He  got  very  busy,  Johnny 
grins,  "and  I  got  busy,  too.  Betti  and  I  were  married 
eight  weeks  later."  .  .  .  The  Andrews  are  now  at  home 
in  a  penthouse  in  New  York's  Tudor  City,  together  with 
son  Jonathan,  four,  and  a  championship  poodle  named 
"Buttons."  His  son  may  turn  out  a  musician,  but,  pre- 
dicts Johnny,  "I  think  he'll  be  a  comedian."  Johnny 
still  flies  when  he  has  the  time.  As  to  other  hobbies,  I 
indulge  in  practically  everything,  just  like  everyone 
else,  but  there's  nothing  I'm  particularly  good  at.  Then 
he  adds,  "I  enjoy  people,  I  enjoy  talking  to  them.  Its 
a  natural  thing."   And  liking  Johnny   is  natural,  too. 


66 


They  met  as  judges  in  a  beauty  contest — and  Johnny  and  Betti 
both  count  themselves  os  winners.  Rounding  out  the  quartet  in 

o  New  York  penthouse  ore  "Buttons"  and  four-year-old  Johnny. 


Dad's  on  radio  and  TV,  mom's  making  mov- 
ies. Young  Johnny  "may  be  a  comedian." 


(Continued  from  page  59) 
attentive    wife.    She    is    so    practical    and 
thrifty  that  Dave  turned  the  family   ex- 
chequer  over  to  her  the  day  they   mar- 
ried.   In  brief,  our  Dave  got  a  good  deal. 

"Oh,  I  heartily  agree,"  says  Dave.  We 
get  along  fine.  She  reacts  to  most  things 
just  about  as  I  do,  so  much  so  that  we 
often  startle  each  other.  We  have  the 
same  attitude  toward  a  given  situation  or 
person.  And  she  is  crisp  and  sharp.  Lots 
of  energy.  Mimics  me,  too.  Very  fuimy. 

They  say  that,  when  Pamela  married 
Dave,  she  promised  to  love,  honor,  obey— 
and  get  up  at  four  A.M.  It  isn't  true.  No, 
no,"  says  Dave.  "I  wouldn't  let  her  get  up 
at  four.  There's  no  reason  for  it.  Its 
like  a  crime— you've  got  to  have  a  motive 
to  get  up  in  the  middle  of  the  night.  Ive 
got  one.    She  hasn't." 

But  it's  not  easy  to  ignore  the  system 
of  alarms  Dave  has  rigged  up.  "Some- 
times," says  Pamela,  "I  turn  over  and 
find  that  I  can't  go  back  to  sleep.  I  he 
there  in  a  middle  world  and  the  most 
ghoulish  things  go  through  my  head.  I  may 
turn  to  writing  whodimits  for  TV." 

It's  easy  to  describe  the  life  the  Garro- 
ways  lead— but  hard  to  imagine.  If  you  can 
visualize  a  milkman  living  in  a  Park  Ave- 
nue penthouse,  you've  got  the  picture. 
For  the  Garroways,  it  is  always  early-to- 
bed  and  early-to-rise.  "Until  David  and 
I  met,"  Pamela  observes,  "we  were  both 
enjoying  the  night  life  of  the  city.  But, 
since  our  first  date,  I  don't  think  that 
either  of  us  has  been  in  a  club  once." 
They  met  on  a  weekend  at  the  country 
house  of  Billy  Rose.  Dave  had  driven  up 
in  one  of  his  sports  cars.  He  was  immedi- 
ately attracted  to  Pamela,  but  didn't  get 
his  gears  out  of  neutral.  "I  think  he  was 
alarmed  by  my  title,"  Pamela  laughs.  "You 
know— he  was  thinking:  Here  is  a  gal 
who  moves  in  society,  who  is  social-con- 
scious, and  I  don't  want  the  peasant  treat- 
ment. Something  like  that.  Actually,  at  the 
time  we  met,  I  was  writing  advertising 
copy  for  Saran  Wrap — which  was  one  of 
David's   sponsored  products." 

Dave  gave  in  to  his  first  impulse,  how- 
ever— and  sent  Pamela  a  book.  Later,  he 
phoned  to  ask  how  she  liked  the  book. 
And,  incidentally,  made  a  dinner  date. 
And  then  another  and  another. 

"Our  lives  changed  immediately,"  she 
says.  "For  no  reason  that  I  can  give,  we 
found  that,  if  we  went  to  a  club  or  restau- 
rant, we  both  clammed  up  If  Dave  came 
to  my  home  for  dinner,  everything  was 
just  great.  We  had  a  lot  to  talk  about. 
And  we  kept  strange  hours  by  most  stand- 
ards. Most  evenings,  Dave  said  goodnight 
at  nine-thirty,  or  even  as  early  as  eight. 
If  we  went  to  the  theater,  I  still  got  home 
in  time  to  watch  the  eleven  o'clock  news. 
But  I  fell  into  the  new  pattern  so  easily." 
They  dated  two  years  before  marrying. 
Because  each  had  had  a  previous,  un- 
successful marriage,  they  wanted  to  be  sure 
of  themselves.  Last  summer,  they  decided 
to  marry  in  Paris.  They  flew  over  with 
friends,  then  found  there  was  too  much 
red  tape  involved.  They  turned  around 
and  came  back  to  New  York. 

In  Manhattan,  on  August  7,   1956,  they 
made  the  final  move.   It  was   a   Tuesday, 
and  Dave  worked  as  usual.  About  two  in 
the    afternoon,   Pamela    came   over   to   his 
apartment    and    Dave's    maid    let    her    in. 
A  few  minutes  later,  Pamela's  parents  ar- 
rived.   When    Dave    showed   up,    they    all 
^    went  down  to  City  Hall  and  into  one  of 
'    the  chapels.  At  three  P.M.,  they  were  mar- 
"    ried.    On    the    way    back,    they    dropped 
Pamela's  parents  at  their  home.  The  next 
five    blocks,    until    they    reached    Dave's 
68 


No  Doubt  About  Love 

apartment  building,  was  their  honeymoon. 
Then  an  elevator  sped  them  up  twenty- 
one  floors  to  Penthouse  A  and  Dave  car- 
ried Pamela  across  the  threshold— and  into 
the  arms  of  the  "wire  man." 

The  "wu-e  man"  is  a  full-sized  indivi- 
dual made  for  the  TV  production  of 
"1975."  He  is  just  one  of  many  unusual 
items  in  the  Garroway  home.  Dave  gets 
credit  for  many  unique  decorating  ideas. 
For  instance,  a  wall  of  the  dining  room  is 
completely  covered  with  a  tremendous  map 
of  New  York  City,  so  large  and  so  de- 
tailed that  every  major  building  in  the 
city  is  mdicated.  Or  note  the  cabinet  doors 
in  the  kitchen.  Dave  covered  them  with 
fabrics  in  bright  green,  yellow  and  pastel 
orange— just  to  get  away  from  the  hos- 
pital-white look.  You  can  even  see  his 
touch  on  the  telephone.  The  dial  center, 
which  usually  holds  the  phone  number, 
has  in  its  place  a  picture  of  Pamela.  The 
apartment    is    cheerful    and    provocative. 

"When  I  moved  in,"  says  Pamela,  "I 
needed  closet  space,  so  David  cleared  out 
two  closets  for  me.  They  had  been  filled 
with  man  things— fishing  rods,  boots,  tools, 
model  cars  and  the  like.  He  had  piled 
everything  on  the  floor  to  put  in  storage 
and  he  looked  a  bit  sad  and  said,  'I  wish 
I  could  keep  a  few  of  these  things.'  Well, 
there  were  a  few  shelves  in  the  back  of  one 
of  my  closets  and  I  offered  him  the  shelves. 
He  readily  accepted— but,  the  next  time  I 
turned  around,  I  found  that  he  had  taken 
over  the  whole  of  the  closet." 

She  didn't  chide  him.  As  she  puts  it, 
"Actually,  I  felt  rather  anxious  about 
David.  He  had  been  living  as  a  bachelor 
for  ten  years.  He  was  quite  comfortable, 
and  then— suddenly— in  come  two  people 
with  a  lot  of  clothes  and  things." 

The  other  person  to  move  in  was 
Pamela's  son,  Michael,  who  is  eight.  Mi- 
chael is  a  bright,  polite  boy  and  he  wor- 
ships Dave.  Actually,  Michael  is  a  count 
by  birth  and— although  he  has  been  natu- 
ralized and  is  now  an  American — he  will 
have  the  choice,  when  he  comes  of  age, 
between  claiming  the  title  of  Marquis  or 
of  remaining  Michael  Garroway.  He  has 
chosen  to  use  the  name  Garroway  and 
calls  Dave  "Daddy."  Dave,  himself,  has 
a  twelve-year-old  daughter,  Paris,  by  his 
first  marriage.  Paris  lives  in  St.  Louis,  but 
gets  to  New  York  about  a  half-dozen 
times  a  year. 

"We  wanted  to  bring  Michael  and  Paris 
together,"  Pamela  says.  "Well,  Mike  was 
just  thrilled  about  having  an  older  sister 
and  they  hit  it  off  fine — except  that  Paris 
is  a  sedate  little  lady  and  Mike  wanted  to 
play  cowboy! 

"David  makes  a  good  father,"  Pamela 
testifies.  "He  is  gentle  and  patient.  For 
example,  I'm  exasperated  if  Mike  doesn't 
go  to  bed  after  the  second  asking.  David 
speaks  to  him  softly,  and  off  he  goes.  I 
think  it's  the  man's  touch." 

There  are  games  Dave  and  Mike  play, 
and  they  watch  TV  together — "I  think  I've 
seen  more  cowboy  movies  in  the  past  few 
months,"  Dave  grins,  "than  I'd  seen  in  the 
previous  twenty  years."  Dave  helps  Mike 
with  school  work  but  gives  guidance  rather 
than  answers.  And  Dave,  a  versatile  brain, 
has  been  leading  Mike  into  new  intellec- 
tual experiences.  Recently,  he  gave  Mike 
a  microscope.  Next,  he  intends  to  let 
Mike  look  through  his  telescope  and  to 
teach  him  some  astrology. 

"I  don't  ask  David  to  assume  responsi- 
bility around  the  home,"  says  Pamela.  "I 
was  raised  differently  from  most  Ameri- 
cans, because  I  grew  up  in  France  and 
because  my  father  is  British  born.  What 
I  mean  is  that  I  think  the  average  Ameri- 


can marriage  is  considered  a  fifty-fifty 
proposition  in  the  home,  with  husband  and 
wife  working  together  on  most  things.  As 
I  was  raised,  the  woman's  proportion  of 
responsibility  runs  a  little  higher— maybe 
60  to  40.  I  don't  ask  David  to  do  anythmg 
around  the  home.  Not  that  he  doesn't. 
Right  now,  he's  papering  the  bathroom 
walls,  but  that's  on  his  own  initiative." 

Dave,  a  man  of  infinite  interests,  has 
tremendous  enthusiasm  for  science  and  the 
arts.  There  are  shelves  and  shelves  of 
books  and  periodicals  which  might  be 
termed  "technical"  and  "literature."  His 
love  of  music  is  attested  to  by  records 
that  are  piled  waist-high  from  the  floor. 
Dave  is  very  interested  in  art  and  has 
eight  original  canvases. 

"There  was  a  painting  I  wanted  when  I 
first  furnished  this  apartment,"  he  says. 
"But  what  I  really  needed  were  drapes 
for  the  back  room.  So  the  picture  was 
photographed  and  then  silk -screened  onto 
fabric.  I  hate  to  think  of  what  it  cost.  About 
a  thousand  dollars.  But  that  was  five 
years  ago.  I  was  crazy.  I  didn't  ask  the 
price  of  anything,  even  though  I  had  no 
real  security.  If  I  saw  something  I  liked, 
I   just   took    it." 

Dave  used  the  back  room  for  work  then, 
but  it  has  now  been  turned  over  to  Mike. 
It  still  has  the  thousand-dollar  drapes— 
and  Dave's  drafting  table,  which  Mike 
finds  practical  for  play  or  study.  Dave 
plans  to  paper  one  wall  with  a  map  of  the 
United  States.  Otherwise,  it  is  dominated 
by  Mike's  toys  and  books. 

"I've  never  cared  for  bedrooms,"  Dave 
says.  "That's  why  I  used  the  room  for 
work.  As  you  can  see,  Pamela  and  I  still 
don't  have  a  bedroom." 

The  living  room  is  J-shaped,  and  the 
sleeping  area  is  in  the  tail  of  the  J.  In  the 
bigger  area,  the  living  room,  the.  Garro- 
way touch  is  again  evident.  The  floors  are 
covered  with  gray  carpeting — but  Dave 
has  made  one  section  of  the  room  into  a 
cozy  island.  He  got  himself  a  yellow  car- 
pet, a  pair  of  scissors  and  proceeded  to 
cut  a  free- shape  that  pulls  together  a 
couple  of  sofas,  a  TV  set  and  a  coffee  table. 
He  covered  the  sofas  with  bold-striped  ; 
fabrics.  The  handsome  coffee  table,  of  j 
Verdi  marble,  is  almost  as  big  as  Dave 
himself.  "I  looked  at  three  hundred  slabs," 
he  recalls,  "before  I  foimd  this  one.  I 
like  marble.    I  wish  I  had  more  of  it." 

There  is  a  grand  piano  in  one  corner. 
No  one  in  the  family  plays,  but  it's  handy 
to  have  around  when  a  jazz  pianist  stops 
by  for  the  evening.  (Dave,  an  erudite  , 
hipster,  is  trying  to  round  Pamela's  square  .] 
corners.)  Then,  over  the  fireplace,  there 
is  a  painting  Dave  brought  back  from  San 
Francisco.  It  is  a  twilight  scene  of  harbor 
lights  off  Oakland. 

The  sleeping  area  is  separated  from  the 
living  room  only  by  a  long  sofa.  As  Dave 
explains,  he  has  always  preferred  one- 
room  living.  The  out-sized  bed  has  a  black 
spread  and  a  headboard  which  Dave  up- 
holstered in  matching  fabric.  There  is  a 
black  chest  of  drawers,  jammed  full  of 
records.  Dave  has  covered  the  cabinet 
which  holds  a  large  speaker  with  grass 
cloth.  And  then  there  is  Dave's  famous 
control  board.  With  a  series  of  buttons 
which  control  electronic  gadgets,  Dave 
can  do  just  about  anything  necessary  for 
man's  comfort  while  still  in  bed.  One  but- 
ton dims  the  lights,  another  disconnects 
the  phone  at  bedtime — and  taps  it  in  again, 
in  early  morning.  One  button  starts  up  a 
tape  recorder.  There  is  a  gadget  for  turn- 
ing off  TV  if  he  falls  asleep  watching. 

And  then  there  is  an  intricate  alarm  sys- 
tem to  get  Dave  out  of  bed  at  four  A.M.  in 


a  respectable  humor.  The  first  sound  is 
that  of  music,  usually  Frank  Sinatra  rec- 
ords. That  is  followed  by  a  gentle  alarm. 
The  lights  go  on  automatically.  Coffee  be- 
gins perking  in  the  kitchen.  Then  there 
is  a  second  alarm  which  has  a  nasty  tone. 

"David  doesn't  wake  easily,"  Pamela 
explains.  "It's  a  fight.  Then  he  sleeps  on 
the  wall  side,  which  means  he  must  make 
the  long  trip  around.  He  gropes  his  way 
into  the  kitchen  and  heads  right  for  the 
refrigerator,  where  there  are  orange  slices 
cut  for  him.  This  usually  brings  him  to 
life.  He's  not  communicative  at  this  hour 
and,  the  moment  he's  dressed,  he  begins 
reading  the  paper."  Although  Dave  doesn't 
want  Pamela  to  get  up  at  four,  some- 
times she  just  can't  help  waking.  "If  I  get 
up,"  she  continues,  "I'll  ask  him  if  he 
wants  something  hot  for  breakfast.  Some- 
times he  feels  like  poached  eggs.  I  find  this 
gratifying,  for  it's  nice  to  have  some- 
thing to  do  when  you're  up  that  early. 
Those  first  few  hours  can  be  difficult  and, 
if  I  can't  go  back  to  sleep,  I  read  until 
seven,  when  it's  time  for  Mike  to  get  up. 
Then  we  have  breakfast  together  and 
watch  David  on  Today." 

Dave  actually  puts  in  a  longer  day  than 
the  average  milkman.  When  the  morning 
show  signs  of?,  he  has  office  duties  which 
keep  him  busy  right  through  lunch  and 
into  late  afternoon.  If  he's  lucky,  he  may 
knock  off  about  four  and  run  up  to  the 
garage  where  he  keeps  his  sports  cars. 
There  he  gets  into  a  mechanic's  uniform 
and  picks  up  the  lengthy  job  of  rebuilding 
his  SS-100  Jaguar.  Dave  is  a  long-time 
sports  car  enthusiast,  but  he  has  given 
up  racing.  "We  had  long  talks  about  his 
racing,"  says  Pamela,  "and  he  felt,  as  a 
family  man,  that  it  wasn't  fair  to  continue 
with  a  sport  that  has  definite  dangers. 
Anyway,  most  of  the  races  are  on  Sun- 
days, when  he's  occupied  with  Monitor 
and  Wide  Wide  World." 

Dave  gets  home  from  the  garage  around 
six.  At  half-past,  he  and  Pamela  sit  down 
to  dinner — sometimes,   right  on  the  floor. 

"We  don't  like  the  formality  of  the 
dinner  table,"  Pamela  explains,  "so  mostly 
we  eat  at  the  coffee  table." 

"Pamela's  souffles  are  wonderful,"  says 
Dave.  "She  does  all  the  cooking,  and  she 
does  great  things  with  wines  and  spices. 
I'm  a  sucker  for  good  food.  I  point  with 
no  pride,"  he  adds,  prodding  his  midriff, 
"at  my  fine  taste  in  food.  Actually,  seri- 
ously, I'm  trying  to  lose  some  of  this  girth." 

Mike  has  dinner  earlier  than  his  par- 
ents, for  he  is  usually  in  bed  by  seven- 
thirty.  There  are  exceptions,  however,  and 
these  evenings  are  called  "treat  nights." 
Monday  and  Wednesday  are  treat  nights 
when  the  three  eat  together  and  watch 
Robin  Hood  and  Disneyland.  Another  treat 
night  is  a  Chinese  dinner  at  a  restaurant, 
followed  by  an  early  movie.  The  only 
late  nights  the  Garroways  themselves  have 
are  opening  nights  at  Broadway  shows, 
for  Dave  functions  as  drama  critic  on 
Today.  Even  Saturday  evening  finds  the 
Garroways  at  home,  for  they  particularly 
enjoy  the  big  Saturday-night  TV  shows. 

"I  think  we  have  a  good  home  and  an 
ideal  relationship,"  Dave  says.  "We  both 
have  certain  responsibilities.  Oiir  lives  are 
interwoven,  and  yet  we  respect  the  pri- 
vacy in  certain  areas  of  each  other's  lives. 
We  trust  each  other — no,  respect  is  the 
word — we  have  found  traits  in  one  another 
that  we  respect."  Dave  pauses,  then  adds, 
"Before  marriage,  although  it  was  rather 
lonely,  we  both  had  certain  doubts  about 
the  big  step.  I  think  everyone  has  them 
before  the  marriage.  But  we  don't  have 
them    anymore." 

Dave  expressed  this  well  to  Pamela.  The 
day  after  their  marriage,  she  received  her 
first  letter  addressed  to  Mrs.  David  Gar- 
roway.  The  note  inside  was  short.  It  simply 
read,  "Thank  you  very  much.  David." 


NEW 


Star 
Candids 


I 


CANDIDS 


1 .  Lana  Turner 

2.  Betty  Grable 

3.  Ava  Gardner 

5.  Alan  Ladd 

6.  Tyrone  Power 

7.  Gregory  Peck 
9.  Esther  Williams 

1 1 .  Elizabeth  Taylor 

14.  Cornel  Wilde 

15.  Frank  Sinatra 

18.  Rory  Calhoun 

19.  Peter  Lawford 

21.  Bob  Mitch um 

22.  Burt  Lancaster 

23.  Bing  Crosby 
25.  Dale  Evans 
27.  June  AUyson 

33.  Gene  Autry 

34.  Roy  Rogers 

35.  Sunset  Carson 

50.  Diana  Lynn 

5 1 .  Doris  Day 

52.  Montgomery  Clift 

53.  Richard  Widmark 

56.  Perry  Como 

57.  Bill  Holden 

66.  Gordon  MacRae 

67.  Ann  Blyth 

68.  Jeanne  Crain 

69.  Jane  Russell 
74.  John  Wayne 
78.  Audie  Murphy 
84.  Janet  Leigh 
86.  Farley  Granger 

91.  John  Derek 

92.  Guy  Madison 
94.  Mario  Lanza 


103.  Scott  Brady 

105.  Vic  Damone 

106.  Shelley  Winters 

107.  Richard  Todd 

109.  Dean  Martin 

110.  Jerry  Lewis 
112.  Susan  Hay  ward 
117.  Terry  Moore 
121.  Tony  Curtis 
124.  Gail  Davis 

127.  Piper  Laurie 

128.  Debbie  Reynolds 

135.  Jeff  Chandler 

136.  Rock  Hudson 

137.  Stewart  Granger 

139.  Debra  Paget 

140.  Dale  Robertson 

141.  Marilyn  Monroe 

142.  Leslie  Caron 

143.  Pier  Angeli 

144.  Mitzi  Gaynor 

145.  Marlon  Brando 

146.  Aldo  Ray 

147.  Tab  Hunter 

148.  Robert  Wagner 

149.  Russ  Tamblyn 

150.  Jeff  Hunter 

152.  Marge  and  Gow- 
er  Champion 

174.  Rita  Gam 

175.  Charlton  Heston 

176.  Steve  Cochran 

177.  Richard  Burton 

179.  Julius  La  Rosa 

180.  Lucille  Ball 
182.  Jack  Webb 
185.  Richard  Egan 


187.  Jeff  Richards 

190.  Pat  Crowley 

191.  Robert  Taylor 

192.  Jean  Simmons 
194.  Audrey  Hepburn 
198.  Gale  Storm 
202.  George  Nader 
205.  Ann  Sothern 
207.  Eddie  Fisher 
209.  Liberace 

211.  Bob  Francis 

212.  Grace  Kelly 

213.  James  Dean 

214.  Sheree  North 

215.  Kim  Novak 

216.  Richard  Davalos 

218.  Eva  Marie  Saint 

219.  Natalie  Wood 

220.  Dewey  Martin 

221.  Joan  Collins 

222.  Jayne  Mansfield 

223.  Sal  Mineo 

224.  Shirley  Jones 


225.  Elvis  Presley 

226.  Victoria  Shaw 

227.  Tony  Perkins 

228.  Clint  Walker 

229.  Pat  Boone 

230.  Paul  Newman 

231.  Don  Murray 

232.  Don  Cherry 

233.  Pat  Wayne 

234.  Carroll  Baker 

235.  Anita  Ekberg 

236.  Corey  Allen 

237.  Dana  Wynter 

238.  Diana  Dors 

239.  Judy  Busch 

240.  Patti  Page 

241.  Lawrence  Welk 

242.  Alice  Lon 

243.  Larry  Dean 

244.  Buddy  Merrill 

245.  HughO'Brian 

246.  Jim  Arness 

247.  Sanford  Clark 


FILL    IN    AND    MAIL 
COUPON  TODAY! 


WORLD   WIDE,    DEPT.   WF-2-57 
112    Main  St.,   Ossining,   N.  Y. 

I  enclose  $ for    candid 

pictures  of  my  favorite  stars  and  have  circled 
the  numbers  of  the  ones  you  are  to  send  me 
by  return   mail. 


NAME. 
STREET. 


CITY. 


ZONE STATE... 

Fill  out  and   mail  coupon  today.  Send   cash 
or  money  order.  12  pictures  for  $1;  6  for  50e. 


69 


(Continued  from  page  52) 
But  there's  no  doubt  in  anyone's  mind 
that  Tim's  a  typical  American  boy.  He's 
at  home  on  a  baseball  field  or  tennis  court, 
in  a  swimming  pool  or  the  gridiron  grand- 
stands. And  he's  no  slouch  on  the  dance 
floor,  either.  However,  these  are  perfectly 
normal  teen-age  accomplishments.  It  was 
Tim's  ability  to  act  which  caught  Walt 
Disney's  astute  eye.  Though  Tim  had  only 
a  handful  of  motion-picture  and  TV  ap- 
pearances to  his  credit,  Disney  sensed  his 
inherent  talent — and  signed  him  to  the 
contract  which  brought  Tim  to  the  de- 
lighted attention  of  teenagers  every- 
where. 

Tim  realizes  that  much  of  his  present 
popularity  stems  from  the  fact  that  he 
really  lives  the  life  of  a  typical  American 
boy.  He's  also  aware  that  he  is  growing 
up  in  a  period  when  the  nation's  teenagers 
are  drawing  more  than  their  share  of 
criticism  because  of  the  way  a  few  of 
them  have  been  handling  their  problems. 
He  knows  that  it  never  has  been  easy  to 
be  a  teenager,  and  that  today's  fast  tempo 
makes  it  even  more  difficult.  But,  like  so 
many  of  his  contemporaries,  Tim  is  mak- 
ing a  good  adjustment  to  growing  up. 

Right  now,  he's  at  the  age  where  he 
insists  on  the  vast  difference  between 
"going  steady"  and  "going  steadily."  His 
explanation  is  emphatic:  "Going  steady! 
why,  that's  practically  being  married!  I 
don't  hold  with  this  'steady'  routine  at  all. 
Gosh,  sixteen's  too  young.  'Going  stead- 
ily,' on  the  other  hand,  is  a  different  story. 
That  just  means  a  guy  likes  a  gal,  maybe 
a  little  more  than  some  of  the  others. 
That's  natural,  isn't  it?"  he  asks  with 
naive  simplicity.  "After  all,  some  girls 
are  smarter  than  others,  or  there  is  some- 
thing about  their  personality  you  like.  Or 
any  one  of  a  thousand  things." 

At  present,  Tim's  partial  to  girls  who 
will  participate  in  his  interest  in  sports 
cars.  If  a  girl  is  willing  to  go  to  the 
Pomona  time-trials  with  him  and  his 
driver.  Gene  Curtis  of  California  Motors — 
and  spend  a  Sunday  afternoon  discussing 
double  overhead  racing  cams,  direct  in- 
jection carburetion,  and  straight  pipes — 
then  she's  the  girl  for  him.  At  least  for 
that  Sunday.  On  the  other  hand,  Tim  en- 
joys other  activities,  too,  such  as  school 
dances,  movies,  hayrides  and  beach  parties. 
He's  the  sort  of  fellow  who  makes  parties 
come  to  life.  His  arrivals  are  generally 
greeted   with   shouts   of   "Here's   Tim!" — a 


Tim  Takes  a  Spin 

sound  that  signifies  the  party  now  officially 
has  gotten  underway. 

Even  before  .  his  sixteenth  birthday, 
Tim's  typical-American-boy  personality 
had  made  him  one  of  the  most  popular 
youngsters  in  Hollywood — and  set  his 
mother  to  hopping,  for  she  was  his  ready 
source  of  transportation.  A  familiar 
phrase  in  the  Considine  apartment,  during 
Tim's  fifteenth  year  B.D.L.  (Before 
Driver's  License),  was:  "Mom,  we're  hav- 
ing a  party  at  Freddie  the  Freeloader's 
Friday  night.  How  about  taking  us?"  Car- 
men Considine  always  obliged,  and  has 
laughingly  admitted,  "I  wore  out  four  sets 
of  tires  and  two  cars  keeping  up  with  Tim 
and  his  friends.  I  am  sure  I  could  have 
passed  any  test  as  a  lady  bus-driver." 

Tim's  transportation  problems  were 
solved  when  he  turned  sixteen,  since 
that's  the  age  when  California  grants  a 
driver's  license.  Up  until  then,  he  could 
only  drive  with  a  learner's  permit  and 
when  accompanied  by  a  licensed  operator. 
Today,  Tim's  car,  an  Alfa  Romeo  sports- 
ter, is  his  pride  and  joy.  If  there  is  a  lull 
in  any  conversation,  he  is  sure  to  say, 
"Want  to  see  the  latest  pictures  of  my 
car?" 

Like  every  average  American  boy,  Tim 
is  crazy  over  cars.  But  he  has  the  en- 
gineer's and  mechanic's  interest  in  the 
overall  performance  of  an  automobile,  not 
in  top  speed  for  speed's  sake.  His  atti- 
tude is:  "Sure,  speed's  all  right,  but  what 
can  you  do  with  it  in  the  city?  That's 
where  performance  counts."  Tim  proudly 
points  out  that  his  car  purrs  along  '  at 
thirty-five  miles  an  hour,  going  forty  miles 
on  a  gallon  of  gas. 

Tim  got  his  car  when  he  was  nearly 
sixteen,  before  he  was  old  enough  to 
drive  it  alone.  "I've  never  met  a  boy  who 
didn't  want  to  learn  to  drive,"  says  Mrs. 
Considine.  "Tim  was  no  different.  In  fact 
he  had  been  building  model  airplanes  and 
automobiles   since   he   was  ten. 

"We  looked  upon  the  sports  car  as  an 
investment  in  safety.  His  working  on  it 
with  driver -mechanic  Gene  Curtis  served 
a  number  of  purposes.  For  one,  Tim  is  a 
natural  mechanic  and  it  gave  him  some- 
thing creative  to  do  with  his  hands. 
Second,  it's  a  constructive  hobby,  for  he 
is  learning  automotive  mechanics.  Third — 
and  most  important — by  talking  in  terms 
of  safety  factors  and  tolerances  with  Gene, 
he  has  been  learning  the  limitations  of 
the  car. 


DID  HIS  KISSES  MEAN  LOVE? 

Vital  questions  about  life  and  love  are 
answered  on  radio's  "My  True  Story." 
For  it  presents  real-life  stories  taken  right 
from  the  files  of  "True  Story"  Magazine. 
You  hear  how  people  like  your  friends, 
your  neighbors,  your  own  family  have 
fought  with  life's  most  difficult  emotional 
problems — and  how  they  have  won 
happiness.  Be  sure  to  listen — for  the  next 
thrilling  episode  may  answer  your  most 
important  question. 


70 


TUNE  IN 


441 


MY  TRUE  STORY" 

American  Broadcasting  Stations 
"Here  on  this  hilltop  I  dreamed — ^only  to  have  my  dreams  torn  to  shreds." 
Read  "Forsaken"  in  February  TRUE  STORY  magazine,  now  at  all  newsstands. 


"Having  been  exposed  to  this  car  for 
the  past  year,  and  having  worked  closely 
with  his  driver  in  the  pits  at  the  Pomona 
Fairgrounds,"  she  explains,  "Tim  has 
learned  what  his  car  will  do  and  what  it 
won't  do.  It  isn't  as  though  he  had  sud- 
denly had  it  thrust  upon  him,  to  learn 
about  it  for  the  first  time." 

In  addition,  pride  of  ownership  has 
helped  teach  "Tim  a  sense  of  responsibility. 
Two  weeks  before  his  driver.  Gene,  was 
to  enter  the  car  in  its  first  competitive 
event  at  Pomona,  Tim  found  he  was 
worried.  "Gosh,"  he  says  seriously,  "things 
were  piling  up  on  me.  I  had  a  chemistry 
test  at  school  to  think  about.  Even  though 
chem  is  my  favorite  subject,  it's  rough. 
And  I  also  had  a  bunch  of  things  to  do 
to  the  car,  like  putting  in  the  safety  belts, 
putting  on  the  wind  screen,  painting  on 
my  nvmiber — 89 — and  taping  up  the  front 
end  to  protect  it  from  flying  dirt.  So,  you 
see,  I  had  a  lot  of  things  on  my  mind. 
Couldn't  sleep.  Might  even  have  bitten 
a  nail  or  two." 

But  realizing  that  the  responsibility  was 
his — and  with  the  help  of  his  mother,  who 
continued  to  supply  transportation  for  a 
stepped-up  schedule — he  managed  to  cram 
everything  in  the  last  week  ("though  I 
was  almost  late  for  the  starting  line"),  and 
he  still  got  an  A  in  his  chemistry  test. 

Though  Tim  is  the  grandson  of  the 
eminent  Pantages  theatrical  family  (his 
mother  is  Carmen  Pantages),  the  son  of 
movie  producer  John  Considine,  and  the 
nephew  of  columnist  Bob  Considine,  he 
became  an  actor  quite  by  chance.  For 
some  time,  agent  Sam  Armstrong,  a  friend 
of  the  family,  had  been  insisting  that  Tim 
had  natural  talent.  He  wanted  to  suggest 
Tim's  name  to  Hollywood  casting  direc- 
tors, but  nobody  took  "Uncle  Sam"  seri- 
ously. One  day,  he  happily  annotmced 
that — on  his  own — he  had  arranged  for 
Tim  to  appear  in  a  cereal  commercial. 
Sam's  purpose  was  to  give  Tim  experience 
before  the  cameras  and  see  how  Tim  came 
across  on  the  screen. 

The  family  good-naturedly  went  along 
with  the  idea.  But  now,  as  Mrs.  Considine 
admits,  "We  really  shouldn't  have  been 
surprised  at  how  well  Tim  came  through 
on  the  screen.  Although  he  had  never 
expressed  a  desire  to  act,  he  has  always 
had  the  average  child's  interest  in  putting 
on  penny-admission  puppet  shows  or  the 
like. 

"The  only  acting  experience  I  remember 
he  had  as  a  youngster,  which  might  pos- 
sibly have  indicated  a  theatrical  career, 
was  the  magic  act  he  put  on  for  us  when 
he  was  eight.  I'll  never  forget  the  day 
I  came  home  to  find  the  kitchen  floor  cov- 
ered with  raw  eggs.  It  was  the  only  clue 
I  had  that  my  son  was  interested  in  per- 
forming. When  I  asked  Tim  about  the 
broken  shells,  I  learned  that  he  and  a 
yoimg  school  chum  by  the  name  of  Bill 
Gargaro  were  developing  an  act.  Bill  was 
the  magician,  Tim  his  helper.  They  had 
been  practicing! 

"The  next  day,  Tim  came  to  tell  me 
that  their  magic  show  was  ready,  and  he 
wondered  if  Uncle  Rod  would  let  him  and 
Bill  put  it  on  the  stage  of  the  Pantages 
Theater — which,  at  that  time,  was  still  in 
the  family.  I  never  dreamed  Rod  would 
say  yes,  so  I  told  Tim  to  go  ahead  and  ask. 

"Tim  asked.  Uncle  Rod  repUed,  'What 
would  you  do?' 

"Said  Tim,  'We're  magicians — we'd  saw 
a  woman  in  half.' 

''Uncle  Rod  asked,  'What  woman?' 

"  'Oh,'  said  Tim,  'any  woman  from  the 
audience.' 

"Hiding  a  smile,  Uncle  Rod  agreed. 
'Sure,   boys,   you  c^n    do  your  show,   but 


you  better  plan  on  coming  on  before  the 
regular  audience  gets  in.' 

"I  was  horrified  at  Uncle  Rod's  reaction," 
Mrs.  Considine  recalls,  "because  I  had 
visions  of  having  to  round  up  the  entire 
family  in  an  attempt  to  fill  the  theater. 
Even  then,  I  knew  it  would  look  empty, 
by  contrast  with  regular  performances, 
and  the  poor  boys'  hearts  would  be 
broken.  I  finally  convinced  them  they 
would  have  a  better  show  in  the  back 
yard.  The  neighbors  made  a  wonderful 
audience." 

Tim  himself  says,  "That  was  just  about 
the  beginning  and  end  of  my  acting  ca- 
reer. We  had  one  routine  with  steel  tubes 
and  empty  bottles.  You  hold  the  tubes 
up  to  the  light,  keeping  the  bottles  inside 
tight  with  your  thumb,  and  saying  'See, 
the  tube  is  empty.'  That's  when  the  bottle 
slipped  off  my  thumb,  breaking  on  the 
table.  I  turned  blue."  Then,  after  a  short 
pause,  Tim  says,  with  a  touch  of  awe  in 
his  voice,  "By  golly,  you  know— I  think 
Uncle  Rod  was  really  willing  to  let  us  go 
on  at  the  Pantages!" 

It  was  several  years  later,  of  course, 
that  Sam  Armstrong  approached  Mrs. 
Considine  with  the  prospect  of  Tim's  be- 
coming an  actor.  "If  we'd  remembered 
his  earlier  interests,"  she  says,  "we  would 
have  known  that  Tim  had  iJie  ability  to  do 
well  in  front  of  a  camera." 

Following  the  cereal  commercial,  twelve- 
year-old  Tim  was  taken  by  Armstrong  to 
read  for  the  part  of  Red  Skelton's  son  in 
M-G-M's  "The  Clown."  Even  at  this  date, 
Tim  still  hadn't  decided  to  make  a  career 
of  acting.  "I  didn't  know  if  I  liked  acting 
or  not,"  he  recalls.  "I  was  really  too  young 
to  understand  the  importance  of  a  featured 
role  with  Mr.  Skelton.  It  was  the  first  big 
thing  I  ever  had  a  chance  at,  and  I  just 
didn't  know. 


"But,  after  the  casting  interview,  I  began 
getting  nervous.  I  remember  the  first  day 
I  went  to  M-G-M.  I  was  sitting  in  the 
waiting  room  when  Mr.  Skelton,  big  cigar 
in  mouth,  walked  by.  He  looked  over  at 
me  and  winked,  flicking  his  cigar.  I'd  never 
before  been  greeted  by  anybody  in  show 
business  as  important  as  Mr.  Skelton.  I 
just  flipped. 

"That's  when  getting  the  part  became 
important.  Each  week  after  that,  we  had 
to  go  back  to  casting.  They  were  slowly 
weeding  out  the  boys  for  the  job.  Finally, 
it  narrowed  down  to  two  of  us.  Then  it 
was  a  question  of  size  and,  because  I  was 
bigger,  I  got  the  part.  When  Uncle  Sam 
told  me  I  had  it,  I  lost  my  head."  Today, 
Tim  still  proudly  wears  the  wristwatch 
given  to  him  by  Red  Skelton  in  1952,  in 
recognition  of  his  youthful  ability. 

"The  Clown"  was  Tim's  first  stepping- 
stone  to  success.  After  completing  the 
pictrire,  he  was  also  cast  in  "Her  Twelve 
Men,"  starring  Greer  Garson,  and  "Execu- 
tive Suite,"  with  William  Holden.  Even 
the  studio  officials  at  M-G-M  had  been 
impressed  with  his  initial  ability.  But 
Tim  says  modestly,  "Ah,  I  was  just  there, 
so  I  got  the  parts." 

He  followed  these  pictures  in  quick 
succession  with  a  few  TV  appearances, 
topping  his  short  career  with  a  role  in 
Universal-International's  "The  Private 
War  of  Major  Benson."  Shortly  after,  Walt 
Disney  signed  Tim  for  "Spin  and  Marty," 
followed  by  the  leading  role  of  Frank 
Hardy  in  "The  Hardy  Boys." 

Today,  Tim  lives  with  his  mother  in  a 
smart  West  Hollywood  apartment  over- 
looking the  famous  "Sunset  Strip."  Tim 
has  an  older  married  sister,  Errin,  and  a 
brother,  John,  Jr.,  a  senior  at  U.C.L.A., 
vyho  lives  with  his  father  in  Westwood, 
since    the    Considines    are    divorced.    Tim 


and  his  father  are  great  chums.  In  fact,  he 
and  his  brother  and  Mr.  Considine  go  to 
U.C.L.A.  football  games  together.  And 
Tim  is  very  proud  when  he,  in  turn,  can 
take  them  to  his  own  Notre  Dame  High 
School  games  in  San  Fernando  Valley. 

At  home,  Tim  doesn't  have  to  be  told 
twice  that  the  dinner  dishes  need  wiping. 
He's  one  jump  ahead  of  his  mother  and 
the  Considine  maid,  Beatrice,  in  this  case. 
After  all,  dinner  dishes  add  to  the  al- 
lowance— and  an  allowance  buys  "juice" 
for  the  sports  car. 

After  dinner,  Tim  daily  devotes  fifteen 
minutes  to  romping  with  his  cocker  span- 
iel, Inky.  "Dogs  need  love  and  attention, 
just  like  people,"  he  says  sagely.  Then 
he's  off  to  his  room  to  hit  the  books  for 
next  day's  classes  at  Notre  Dame  High. 

On  weekends,  Tim  and  his  mother,  who 
share  many  interests,  go  to  movies  to- 
gether. And,  after  the  latest  sports  car 
race,  Tim  proudly  shows  Mrs.  Considine 
the  35-mm.  color  slides  of  his  car  in  action, 
projected  on  his  bedroom  wall. 

Keeping  his  room  neat  and  tidy  falls 
under  the  heading  of  household  chores 
for  Tim.  But  it's  only  after  Beatrice  gives 
it  her  special  attention  that  Mrs.  Considine 
feels  it's  really  fit  for  formal  inspection. 
That's  imderstandable,  because  Tim's 
room  is  filled  with  tennis  rackets,  swim 
fins  and  snorkle  tube,  baseball  bat  and 
mitt,  helter-skelter  tennis  balls,  a  record- 
player  (on  which  Tim's  current  favorite  is 
"No  Time  for  Lovin',"  co-authored  by  his 
brother,  who  writes  musical  scores  for 
U.C.L.A.  productions),  camera  equipment 
(principally  to  take  pictures  of  sports 
cars),  a  35-mm.  slide  projector,  a  portrait 
of  his  current  best  girl — in  short,  all  the 
paraphernalia  that  go  hand-in-baseball- 
glove  with  the  picture  of  a  typical 
American  boy. 


New  Way -k)  Wash  Face 


IMPROVES    SKIN 
AMAZINGLY 


Blemishes  gone— baby-soft  skin  returns  in  7 
days!  For  thrilling  resiJts  lather  massage 
twice  daily  with  Cuticura  Soap  — mildest  of 
all  leading  soaps  by  laboratory  test— only 
soap  that's  superemollient  and  mildly  medi- 
cated to  maintain  the  natviral  moisture  and 
normal,  healthy  acidity  of  the  skin. 

No  other  soap  contains  Cuticura's  remarkable 
skin -softening,  skin -smoothing  ingredients. 
And  besides,  Cuticura  Soap  is  fragrant,  fiiro, 
long  lasting,  economical. 

For  problem  skin  — blackheads,  externally 
caused  pimples,  flaky  dryness— use  Cuticura 
Ointment  nightly  to  soften  and  stimulate  as 
it  helps  relieve.  See  exciting  new 
softness,  freshness,  radiance— of  ten 
in  7  days! 

Send  10<  (no  stamps)  to  cover  mail- 
ing for  generous  trial  size  Cuticura 
Soap  and  Squeeze  Bottle  Shampoo 
plus  folder  on  "New  Way  to  Wash 
Face."  Write  Cuticura,  Dept.  TS-72, 
Maiden  48,  Mass. 

(^uticura 

Wishing  won't  help  your  skin— Cuticura  will! 


71 


Dawn's  Wonderful  Life 


(Continued  jrom  page   49) 
to  do.    But  seventeen— that's  more  like  it! 
And  eighteen  must  be  the  most  heavenly 
age  of  all!" 

For  all  her  disdain  of  the  limiting  as- 
pects of  being  sixteen,  Dawn  managed  to 
pack  a  powerful  lot  of  experience  into 
those  twelve  months. 

Possibly  the  most  important  thing  which 
happened  to  Dawn  during  that  year  was 
her  decision  to  go  away  to  boarding  school. 
For  two  years,  she  had  been  attending 
Beverly  Hills  High  School. 

"I  was  getting  a  pretty  low  opinion  of 
myself,"  Dawn  confesses.  "I  figured  I 
wasn't  pretty,  and  I  didn't  even  know  if  I 
could  ever  even  make  the  'attractive'  list. 
Besides  which  I  was  getting  a  little  tired 
being  known  as  'Art  Linkletter's  daughter,' 
and  even  more  weary  of  being  introduced 
around  school  as  'Jack  Linkletter's  sister.' 
I  thought  maybe,  if  I  went  away  to  a  new 
school,  I  could  start  being  just  Dawn 
Linkletter,  period!" 

When  Dawn  made  her  dissatisfaction 
known,  the  Linkletters  held  a  family  pow- 
wow. Art  and  Lois  did  some  investigating, 
and  came  up  with  a  list  of  several  schools 
of  which  they  approved.  Dawn  was  given 
her  choice  from  that  list.  She  picked  Chad- 
wick,  a  privately-operated  co- educational 
high  school,  set  on  a  beautiful  campus 
in  the  Rolling  Hills  area  near  Palos 
Verdes.  It  was  close  enough  to  home  so 
that  she  could  spend  weekends  with  her 
family,  but  live  on  campus  weekdays. 

Since  she  so  desperately  wished  to  estab- 
lish her  own  identity  in  this  new  environ- 
ment, that  is  exactly  what  came  about. 
She  discovered  before  long  that  being  the 
offspring  of  a  celebrity  meant  not  a  thing 
to  the  other  students.  Most  of  them  had 
famous  parents,  too.  And  she  did  not  enter 
each  new  class  to  find  the  instructor  ex- 
pecting her  to  behave  just  like  her  brother 
Jack  the  year  before. 

While  Art  and  Lois  are  enthusiastic 
about  Chadwick  and  what  it  has  done  for 
Dawn,  they  realize  that  the  dissatisfaction 
she  felt  before  making  the  transfer  was 
probably  a  typical  phase  felt  by  many 
teenagers.  "I  really  don't  think  it  had 
anything  to  do  with  Beverly  Hills  High," 
Lois  Linkletter  says.  "I  think  Dawn  was 
just  at  that  trying  stage  of  being  fifteen, 
when  nothing  seems  right.  And  it  hap- 
pened that  she  sort  of  found  herself  at 
the  same  time  that  she  changed  schools — 
but  not  necessarily  because  she  changed 
from  Beverly  Hills  High  to  Chadwick." 

13  awn  is  quick  to  point  out  that  she  and 
her  brother  Jack  get  along  very  well — 
probably  better  than  most  brother-sister 
teams  where  the  age  difference  is  so 
slight.  But  Jack  is  the  aggressive  type, 
and  Dawn  has  always  been  somewhat  the 
oppposite. 

Being  the  eldest  of  the  Linkletter  brood, 
Jack  had  felt  his  age  advantage  every 
now  and  then,  in  the  fashion  of  older 
brothers  everywhere.  In  years  past,  he  has 
also  felt  the  need  to  prove  himself  because 
of  his  famous  dad.  As  a  result,  Dawn  often 
felt  that  she  got  lost  in  the  shuffle:  "I 
guess  the  thing  I  used  to  resent  most  of 
all  was  Jack's  introducing  me  to  his  friends 
as  'my  kid  sister.'  After  all,  I  was  less 
than  two  years  yoiinger  than  he.  I  really 
don't  think  he  meant  to  be  condescending, 
now  that  I  look  back  on  it,  but  I  sure 
thought  so  then.  That's  what's  so  nice 
about   being   seventeen — now   he   just   in- 

^    troduces  me  as  'my  sister  Dawn.' " 

Art  and  Lois  have  been  interested 
spectators  this  past  year  as  their  two 
oldest  offspring  have  discovered  each 
other.  Gradually  the  two  became  friends, 

72 


instead    of    just    considering    each    other 
necessary  evils. 

"We  glance  out  a  window,  and  see  them 
sitting  at  the  far  edge  of  the  pool,  heads 
together,  deep  in  some  serious  discussion," 
Lois  says.  "Neither  Art  nor  I  try  to  pry 
into  what  goes  on — but,  in  a  day  or  so,  it 
generally  comes  out.  And  it  always  turns 
out  that  Jack  was  giving  Dawn  some  tips 
on  dating,  or  she  was  briefing  him  on  how 
girls  like  to  be  treated. 

"There's  new  delight  in  watching  them 
learn  to  appreciate  each  other,  which 
more  than  compensates  for  all  the  times 
they've  had  to  be  pulled  out  of  each  other's 
hair  over  the  last  fifteen  years.  Jack  will 
bring  some  chums  home.  First  thing  you 
know,  one  of  them  will  take  him  aside 
and  ask,  'How's  about  fixing  me  up  with 
a  date  with  Dawn?'  Through  the  eyes  of 
his  pals,  he's  seeing  his  sister  in  a  new 
light.  And  the  same  thing  holds  true  for 
Dawn.  If  one  of  her  girl  friends  flips  over 
Jack,  she  sees  him  with  a  new  perspec- 
tive. And,  believe  me,  it's  fun  to  be  on 
the  sidelines  watching  all  this  going  on!" 
"Maybe  Jack  gained  some  new  respect 
for  me  when  I  took  over  his  disc-jockey 
show  one-day,"  Dawn  hazards  a  g^iess. 
"He  couldn't  make  it,  and  asked  me  if  I'd 
mind  trying  it.  In  a  way,  I  was  petrified — 
a  live  radio  show  is  a  tremendous  re- 
sponsibility. But  I  figured  I'd  show  him  I 
could  do  it.  And  I  did.  It  was  fun,  it  turned 
out,  and  confirmed  more  than  ever  the 
growing  feeling  I've  had,  that  maybe  I'd 
like  to  get  in  show  business,  too. 

"I  suppose  being  a  ham  is  sort  of  hered- 
itary," she  added.  "At  least,  no  one  could 
ever  imagine  Daddy  having  a  bunch  of 
introverts  for  children.  But  this  taste  of 
radio  work,  and  the  chances  Daddy  has 
given  me  this  last  year  to  help  with  the 
commercials  on  his  TV  shows,  have  made 
me  more  sure  than  ever  that  I'd  like  it  in 
front  of  the  cameras." 

The  age  span  in  the  Linkletter  offspring 
is  rather  wide,  from  Jack's  sophisticated 
nineteen  years  to  Diane's  still-tender  eight. 
But  a  fairly  unique  system  has  been  em- 
ployed by  Art  and  Lois  to  reduce  con- 
flicts between  the  various  age  levels.  Actu- 
ally, it's  a  sort  of  seniority  system,  with 
certain  age  levels  set  at  which  the  chil- 
dren are  allowed  certain  privileges.  Every- 
thing from  bedtimes  to  who  gets  to  go 
along  on  a  transcontinental  trip  is  gov- 
erned by  "what  age  are  you?" 

"The  family  goes  off  on  a  camping  trip 
every  summer,"  Art  begins,  by  way  of 
explaining  the  system.  "We  decided  long 
ago  that  a  small  child  is  no  good  on  a 
caimping  trip.  The  youngster  doesn't  have 
much  fun,  and  can  very  possibly  spoil  the 
trip  for  the  others.  We  do  most  of  our 
vacationing  on  horseback.  Very  young 
children  just  can't  take  it.  So  we  set  an 
age  limit.  None  of  the  children  can  go  on 
such  a  trip  until  the  summer  nearest  the 
ninth  birthday. 

"Sharon  made  her  first  camping  trip  with 
us,  just  this  past  summer,  having  attained 
the  ripe  old  age  of  ten.  It  was  sort  of  a 
badge  of  achievement  for  her.  Diane,  who 
was  only  seven  at  the  time,  was  the  only 
one  left  at  home.  She  didn't  kick  up  a 
fuss.  She  knew  that  each  of  the  others 
had  had  to  wait,  and  that  when  she  turned 
nine  she'd  get  to  go,  too. 

"The  same  thing  holds  for  other  family 
activities,"  he  continues.  "We've  never 
taken  any  of  the  younger  children  on  long 
trips.  It's  too  tiring  for  them,  and  it  takes 
too  much  out  of  us.  And  now  we've  de- 
cided with  Miss  Guinea  Pig  here,"  he 
grins  at  Dawn,  "that  seventeen  is  about 
the  right  age  to  see  Europe." 

Art    and    Lois    had    planned    on    going 


abroad  next  summer,  so  a  family  con- 
clave was  called.  It  was  decided  that  there 
was  no  reason  they  had  to  see  Europe 
together.  Art  and  Lois  had  been  abroad 
before.  They  undoubtedly  would  want  to 
do  things  that  would  bore  Dawn,  and  vice 
versa.  So  it  was  arranged  that  Dawn  would 
join  a  group  of  her  chums,  girls  her  own 
age,  on  a  European  tour  chaperoned  by 
a  friend  who  is  a  travel  expert.  They  will 
see  the  things  every  visitor  heads  for  on 
his  first  trip  abroad,  they  will  do  the 
things  teen-age  girls  enjoy  doing,  and  there 
won't  be  any  parents  getting  in  their  hair. 

The  Linkletters'  understanding  of  their 
offspring — and  the  desire  to  meet  them  on 
their  own  grounds,  as  individuals — prob- 
ably explains  why  Art  and  Lois  have  so 
little  trouble  with  their  five. 

"We  tell  them  once  what  we  want,  and 
that's  it!"  Art  claims.  "Only  rarely  do  they 
question  our  decisions.  And,  if  any  of  the 
youngsters  does  put  up  an  argument,  he's 
generally  pretty  sure  of  his  ground.  We 
try  to  be  fair  about  it.  If  the  argument  is 
sound,  we'll  reverse  our  ruling.  But  they 
know  that  we  don't  make  arbitrary  rulings, 
that  we  have  reasons  for  our  decisions,  and 
that  mere  wheedling  won't  move  us.  This 
is  something  parents  must  establish  early. 
And,  thank  heaven,  we  had  the  foresight 
and  perseverance  to  get  it  started  with 
Jack  and  Dawn.  Now  the  three  younger 
children  present  no  problem  whatsoever!" 

"There's  that  guinea-pig  bit  again!" 
Dawn  moans. 

Dawn  instituted  a  precedent-setting  bit 
of  business  herself,  not  long  ago.  It  was  on 
a  day  when  she'd  arranged  to  meet  her  dad 
,  and  a  couple  of  friends  for  lunch.  She  ar- 
rived, a  bit  breathlessly,  to  find  the  friends 
already  seated  in  the  restaurant,  but  her 
dad  not  yet   on  the  scene. 

Without  much  of  a  preamble,  she  con- 
fessed that  a  horrible  thing  had  happened 
to  her  that  morning.  She'd  got  her  first 
traffic  ticket,  for  illegal  parking.  She'd 
parked  her  car  in  the  same  spot  she'd  been 
using  for  weeks,  a  spot  she'd  been  told  to 
use  by  the  instructors  at  the  school  she 
was  attending.  But  today  she'd  come  out 
to  find  this  parking  ticket  glaring  at  her 
from  the  windshield. 

The  friends  volunteered  to  say  nothing 
to  Art  about  the  whole  business. 

"Oooooh,     no,"    Dawn     hastily     briefed 
them.  "I've  never  gone  through  this  routine 
before.  I  think  I'd  much  rather  tell  him 
right  in  front  of  you.  He  wouldn't  be  as   { 
apt  to  blow  in  front  of  you  as  if  I'd  wait  \ 
to  tell  him  in  private."  ' 

When  she  did  work  her  way,  with  beau- 
tiful subtlety  and  fine  feminine  finesse,  to 
mentioning  the  ticket  to  Art,  he  scarcely 
turned  a  hair. 

"WalUll,"  he  drawled,  "looks  like  there  » 
goes  another  week's  allowance!" 

This  was  all  Dawn  needed  to  trigger  her 
into  a  speech. 

"Oh,  that  allowance!  That  miserable  imi- 
tation of  an  allowance!  I  keep  telling 
Daddy  he  can  afford  to  give  me  more  than 
five  dollars  a  week  as  an  allowance.  He 
says  he  agrees  with  that.  But  he  says  that 
I  can't  afford  to  get  any  more  than  five 
dollars  a  week! 

"And  the  way  he  makes  me  work,  even 
for  that  pittance!  Comes  the  day  my  al- 
lowance is  due,  and  since  he  hasn't  handed 
it  over,  I  go  to  him  to  ask  for  it.  He's  al- 
ways reading  the  paper,  it  seems  like,  and 
he  makes  a  great  show  about  being  in- 
terrupted. I  point  out  that  I  haven't  had  | 
my  allowance  yet,  and  might  I  have  it  now 
please.  And  he  always  asks  me  why  do  I 
need  it,  and  I  always  have  half  a  dozen 
good  reasons  ready.   Th,  I  always  get  it. 


But  we  go  through  this  routine  for  fifteen 
minutes  till  he  fishes  for  his  wallet,  and 
comes  out  with  a  five-dollar  bill.  It's  just  so 
humiliating!" 

"n  you  think  that's  hard  work,  young 
lady,"  Art  grins  good-naturedly,  "maybe 
we'd  just  better  figure  out  a  few  things  to 
show  you  what  it  takes  to  earn  five  dol- 
lars. Like  making  beds  and  scrubbing  floors 
and  washing  dishes.  How  does  that  sound?" 
"Don't  go  to  any  bother,"  Dawn  wise- 
cracks. "I'm  getting  sort  of  used  to  that 
corny  old  routine  by  now.  I  guess  I'd  miss 
It  if  you  just  doled  out  the  allowance 
without  any  quibbling!" 

As  soon  as  it  had  flared  up,  the  tempest 
subsided,  and  the  Irate  Teenager  gave  way 
to  the  Reasonable  Young  Lady. 

"I  suppose  I  know  what  Daddy  means 
really."  Dawn  grinned,  "about  my  not  be- 
mg  able  to  afford  to  get  more  than  five 
dollars  a  week.  Of  all  the  young  people 
1  know,  the  ones  who  have  loads  of  money 
to  spend  are  the  least  happy.  I  guess  I 
didn  t  understand  this,  though,  till  this  last 
year. 

"But  now  I  realize  something  about 
those  girls  who  have  all  kinds  of  money 
to  toss  around,  the  ones  who  drip  cash- 
mere sweaters  and  actually  have  mink 
coats.  Theyve  had  as  many  as  three  or 
tour  sets  of  parents  over  the  last  ten  years 
and  the  only  security  they  have  is  the 
dollars-and-cents  kind.  And  I  think  any 
one  of  them  would  gladly  trade  in  all  her 
loot  for  the  the  thing  I  have-parents  who 
wait  to  welcome  me  home,  parents  I  can 
count  on  for  help  or  advice  or  fun  or  just 
plain  loving.  That's  another  wonderful  part 
of  growmg  up.  You  begin  to  see  just  how 
much  you  have  to  be  thankful  for'" 

Art  is  justifiably  proud  of  Dawn's 
growing  maturity.  In  recognition,  he  and 
Lois  took  Dawn  with  them  on  a  visit  to 


New  York  last  year,  when  Art  went  east 
to  emcee  the  premiere  of  "Moby  Dick."  She 
took  in  several  Broadway  hit  shows,  dined 
at  many  of  the  swank  restaurants,  and  met 
some  fabulously  interesting  people,  both 
in  and  out  of  show  business. 

"Actually,  I  think  I  got  more  fun  out  of 
the  trip  than  she  did,"  Art  admits  "Be- 
cause I  was  enjoying  it  for  myself  and  for 
her.  I  was  seeing  it  all  for  the  first  time 
again,  this  time  through  her  eyes  " 

Last  summer.  Dawn  set  up  an  ambitious 
seif-improvement  program  for  herself.  She 
enrolled  m  a  modeling  school,  not  because 
sne  plans  to  do  professional  modeling  but 
because  of  the  invaluable  instruction  the 
school  offered  in  poise  and  grooming. 
There  she  learned  how  to  walk,  stand 
and  sit  gracefully,  how  to  wear  her  hair 
and  apply  her  makeup  more  effectively,  and 
how  to  keep  her  figure  just  the  way  she 
wants  it. 

"After  a  spring  binge  of  sodas  and  sun- 
daes, I  discovered  I  was  beginning  to  bulge 
m  all  the  wrong  places,"  Dawn  admits. 
Ihen  she  continues,  with  the  dead-serious- 
ness characteristic  of  the  very  young  "I 
decided  If  I  let  myself  get  too  heavy  now 
Id  probably  never  have  the  nice  figure 
I  want.  I  think  it's  terribly  important  to 
keep  in  shape  now,  because  if  I  do,  then  it 
will  be  that  much  easier  to  keep  in  shape 
as  I  get  older."  ^ 

Dawn,  like  most  girls  her  age,  loves 
pretty  clothes.  But  her  taste  is  inclined 
to  be  on  the  conservative  side  when  it 
^uT'f  *?  buying.  "Mother  has  taught  me 
that,  she  explains.  "Some  of  the  girls  I 
know  buy  just  anything  that  happens  to 
strike  their  fancy  as  they  stroll  through 
a  store.  Not  me.  Mother  has  trained  me  not 
to  buy  unless  it's  something  I  need  or 
can  really  use,  something  that  fits  into  the 
wardrobe  I  already  have.  Actually  it  works 


fuLr^'^T  '"^^  *^^*  way-by  buying  fewer 
things,  I  can  manage  to  get  really  good 
clothes   when   I   do   buy. 

"Learning  how  to  dress  most  effectivelv 
is  another,  exciting  part  of  growing  up  I 
suppose  I've  always  known  it,  but  all  of  a 
sudden  I  realize  that  the  appearance  I 
make  in  public  is  important  to  Daddy,  and 
can  be  very  important  to  my  own  future 
People  are  apt  to  judge  others  by  the  way 
they  re   dressed,   I've   discovered" 

The  solid  training  Dawn  has  had,  which 
shows  up  in  her  preference  for  simple 
clothes,  is  also  evident  in  her  attitude  to- 

m«nv  f  K^-  '^V^^  ^'^^^l"^^  amazement  of 
many  of  her  chums,  Dawn  refuses  to  go 
''%PI^<iaies  just  to  be  going  out. 

^r^J^A  u  r^^^^^  ''^*^^^  s^t  at  home  with  a 
good  book,  or  watching  television,  than  to 
go  out  with  some  drip,"  she  states  flatly 
I  know  It  sounds  corny,  but  that's  the 
way  I  feel  about  it.  There  are  plenty  of 
fe  lows  around  who  have  money,  and  can 
take  their  dates  to  the  best  restaurants  for 

carrv'nn  "'  '"°'.'  ""^  *^°^^  ^^^^  ^"""Idn't 
carry    on    an    interesting    conversation    if 

h^me""'^^  ^^P^"^^^  "'^  it!  I'd  rather  stay 
For  all  her  tender  years,  Dawn  Link- 
letter  seems  to  have  established  an  amaz- 
^nf  fct'^  f  rf'^  of  values,  seems  to  have 
adjusted  to  life  with  a  wisdom  far  beyond 
seventeen.  But  there's  one  situation  she 
claims  shes  never  been  able  to  meet 
gracefully. 

"People  are  always  coming  up  to  me  at 
parties,  she  explains,  "and  asking  me  the 
same  question.  'How  does  it  feel'  thev 
simper,  'to  be  the  daughter  of  a  celebrity'' 
How  can  I  answer  them?  What  can  I  say-? 
Ihe  only  possible  answer,  at  least  the  only 
one  I  ve  ever  been  able  to  think  of,  is- 
I  dont  really  know.  You  see,  that's  all 
1  ve  ever  been.'  " 


noRFORms 

VAGINAL  SUPPOSITORIES 


Tested  by  doctors 
Trusted  by  women 


Tested  by  doctors. .  .proved  in  hospital  clinics 


1.  Antiseptic  (Protective,  germicidal  action) 

Norforms  are  now  safer  and  surer  than  ever!  A  highly  perfected 
new  formula  releases  its  antiseptic  and  germicidal  ingredients 
right  in  the  vaginal  tract.  The  exclusive  ne%v  base  melts  at  body 
temperature,  forming  a  powerful  protective  film  that  permits 
long-lasting  action.  Will  not  harm  delicate  tissues. 

2.  Deodorant  (Protection  from  odor) 

Norforms  were  tested  in  a  hospital  clinic  and  found  to  be  more 
effective  than  anything  it  had  ever  used.  Norforms  are  powerfully 
deodorant-they  eliminate  (rather  than  cover  up)  embarrassing 
odors,  yet  have  no  "medicine"  or  "disinfectant"  odor  themselves. 

3.  Convenient  (So  easy  to  use) 

Norforms  are  small  vaginal  suppositories,  so  easy  and  convenient 
to  use  Just  insert-no  apparatus,  no  mixing  or  measuring.  They're 
greaseless  and  they  keep  in  any  climate.  Your  druggist  has  them 
m  boxes  of  12  and  24.  Also  available  in  Canada 


Moil  tt,is  coupon  today  FR££  ,.„,^^„^,.^^  ^^^^^^^^  ^^^^^^^ 


ilist  mail  this  coupon  to:  Dept.  TVR-72 
forvvich  Pharmacal  Company,  Norwich,  N.  Y. 

Please  send  me  the  new  Norforms  booklet,  in  a 
plam  envelope. 


A  NORWICH   PRODUCT 


Name. 

Street 

City_ 


(please  print) 


_Zone_ 


_Siate_ 


73 


The  Importance  of  Being  Claire 


(Continued  jrom  page  40) 
smiling  at  the  difEerence  between  dream 
and  reality.  "Never  the  way  I  idealized  it. 
Certainly  not  at  all,  since  I  have  been  on 
television.  In  fact,  for  one  who  adores 
sleeping  late  and  getting  off  to  a  slow 
start  mornings,  I  can  say  it  hasn't  worked 
out  according  to  my  plan  in  any  way.  Not 
with  a  6:30  rising  hour,  an  on-the-set 
rehearsal  call  for  7:30,  more  rehearsing 
after  the  broadcast,  lasting  deep  into  the 
afternoon,  for  the  next  day's  show,  scripts 
to  be  studied  again  at  night— I  also  play 
Kate  McCauley,  a  newspaperwoman,  m 
Wendy  Warren  And  The  News,  on  CBS 
Radio— and  an  early  bedtime  so  I  can  get 
up  again  at  6:30  next  morning!" 

In  addition  to  this  tight  professional 
schedule,  Anne  keeps  house  for  her  hus- 
band, Tom  McDermott,  a  New  York  ad- 
vertising agency  executive  who  works 
with  radio  and  television.  She  does  her 
own  marketing  and  cooking,  and  her  own 
tidying  up,  with  the  aid  of  a  cleaning 
woman  who  comes  in  by  the  day.  And  she 
usually  has  half  a  dozen  "special"  projects. 

Against  this  background  of  busy  and 
happy  domesticity,  Anne  has  only  sym- 
pathy and  imderstanding  for  this  other 
wife  she  plays  ...  for  Claire,  the  rejected 
wife  of  Jim  Lowell,  Jr.,  in  As  the  World 
Turns:  "Claire  has  been  in  love  with  Jim 
since  she  was  a  little  girl.  He  was  her 
first  'crush,'  and  perhaps  it  is  because  she 
has  known  him  so  long  that  she  has  never 
been  able  to  tell  him  how  she  really  feels. 
If  they  had  met  when  she  was  older  and 
more  mature  in  her  emotions,  she  could 
probably  now  handle  the  whole  relation- 
ship better,  make  fewer  mistakes.  She  is 
basically  warm  and  affectionate,  but,  like 
many  people  who  have  been  constricted 
by  the  way  they  were  brought  up,  it  is 
difficult  for  her  to  show  her  true  feelings. 
Like  many  of  us,  also,  she  is  apt  to  be  a 
little  sorry  for  herself,  although  she  is 
honest  enough  to  recognize  this. 

"The  truth  seems  to  be  that  she  wants 
to  believe  that  everything  will  turn  out 
her  way,  in  spite  of  all  the  evidence  to 
the  contrary.  In  many  ways,"  says  Anne, 
"Claire  is  much  younger  than  her  teen- 
age daughter,  Ellen,  who  is  more  of  a 
realist  and  sees  life  as  it  is,  not  as  she 
might  want  life  to  be.  Claire  is  the 
kind  of  woman  who  must  have  someone 
to  look  out  for  her,  although  she  would 
never  let  you  guess  it  from  any  word  or 
action  of  hers.  She  needs  strength  in  a 
man,  as  her  husband  needs  strength  in  a 
woman  .  .  .  and,  at  this  point,  neither  has 
found  that  in  the  other.  .  .  . 

"Incidentally,"  Anne  continues,  "Wendy 
Drew,  who  is  my  seventeen-year-old 
daughter  Ellen  on  the  show,  is  really  a 
wonderful  person  and  I  am  extremely 
fond  of  her.  All  of  us  on  the  show  are. 
I  even  find  myself  taking  over  a  real-life 
'mother  role'  at  times  with  Wendy,  fussing 
over  her,  taking  her  to  the  doctor  when 
she  was  hit  by  a  studio  mike  and  worry- 
ing about  her  as  her  own  mother  would, 
protecting  her.  We  are  all  protective  to- 
ward Wendy,  both  the  men  and  women 
in  the  cast  and  all  the  crew  and  the  pro- 
ducer and  director — and  she  is  probably 
the  most  level-headed  of  all  of  us!  She 
has  that  rather  special  quality  which 
makes  you  want  to  be  very  good  to  her. 
There  couldn't  be  a  nicer  group  of  people 
anywhere,  anyhow — a  fact  that  makes  the 
hours  of  rehearsal  pleasant  instead  of 
'    difficult." 

*        The  McDermotts  were  married  on  June 

"    21,  1953,  on  a  Sunday  .  .   .  because  they 

both   had   to    be    at   work    early    Monday 

morning.    They  got  a  belated  honeymoon 

74 


trip.  At  least,  Anne  did!  Tom's  company 
sent  him  to  Hollywood  on  business  ... 
and  sent  Anne  with  him,  as  a  wedding 
gift.  She  spent  long,  lazy  days  at  the 
Bel  Air  pool,  while  Tom  went  to  work 
every  morning,  the  same  as  in  New  York. 
They  live  now  in  half  of  a  lovely,  small 
brownstone  house  on  a  pleasant  street 
where  old  New  York  has  not  quite  given 
way  to  tall  and  impressive  new  apartment 
houses.  They  occupy  the  two  upper  floors 
of  the  brownstone,  and  the  owner  of  the 
house  has  the  groimd  floor  and  basement. 
("We  have  our  own  front  door,"  says 
Anne,  "which  makes  it  seem  like  a  real 
house,  rather  than  a  two-floor  apart- 
ment.") The  McDermotts'  "first  floor" 
consists  of  living  room,  dining  room  and 
kitchen.  Their  "upstairs"  is  a  bedroom, 
study  and  two  baths.  ("The  baths  are  a 
luxury,  when  both  Tom  and  I  are  rushing 
to  get  out  to  our  respective  jobs  during 
the  same  morning  half-hour.") 

The  basic  color  scheme  of  their  home  is 
blue.  A  very  light  blue  in  the  living  room, 
darker  blue  in  the  bedroom,  natural  wood 
and  blue  in  the  study.  The  dining  room, 
however,  has  a  scarlet  Chinese  wall  paper. 
("We  did  this  with  ovir  fingers  crossed, 
but  the  result  is  charming  and  we  love  it.") 
Furnishings  are  a  mixture  of  traditional 
and  contemporary. 

The  study  is  the  room  where  they  en- 
joy music,  records,  radio,  TV.  And  books, 
and  quiet  talk.  Tom  decorated  one  wall 
with  photographs  of  scenes  from  the  plays 
Anne  has  been  in,  beginning  with  her 
stage  debut  in  "Native  Son."  Anne  built 
the  bookcase.  "My  one  piece  of  carpentry," 
she  smiles,  "really  not  hard  to  do — except 
that  it  took  time,  and  I  didn't  have  much 
of  that." 

When  she  was  in  the  throes  of  producing 
this  lone  example  of  her  skill  with  tools, 
she  needed  some  four-inch  sanding  discs 
one  Saturday  morning,  and  asked  her  hus- 
band if  he  would  stop  at  the  big  hardware 
store  near  by.  Tom,  no  expert  on  such 
matters,  got  her  instructions  a  little  con- 
fused, asked  for  four  six-inch  discs. 

"You  must  have  a  very  large  drill,"  the 
man  at  the  store  said.  "How  big  is  it?" 
Tom  grinned.  "My  wife  is  making  book- 
cases," he  said.  "I'm  just  the  errand  boy." 
Some  other  men  in  the  store  began  to 
laugh  sympathetically,  and  that  was  all  a 
husband  needed.  "From  now  on,"  he 
told  Anne  when  he  got  home,  carrying  the 
four-inch  discs  the  hardware  man  had 
suggested  must  be  right,  "I'll  do  any  other 
shopping  for  you.  The  groceries,  the  meat, 
any  supplies  you  need.  But  don't  ask  me 
to  buy  for  your  carpentry  projects.  That's 
all  yours!" 

Weekends  and  holidays  and  through  the 
summer — whenever  they  can  get  away — 
they  go  up  to  Old  Lyme,  Connecticut,  where 
they  have  a  home  with  Anne's  parents. 
There  Anne  concentrates  on  gardening, 
particularly  the  flower  beds,  leaving  the 
more  prosaic  vegetable  gardening  to  her 
dad.  Whenever  there  is  a  spare  week  or 
two,  the  McDermotts  take  off  for  the 
Virgin  Islands,  their  favorite  island  of  St. 
John  .  .  .  where  the  beach  is  a  miracle  of 
loveliness  and  there  are  no  telephones,  no 
radio  or  TV,  nor  even  electricity.  No 
scripts  to  study,  no  rehearsals.  .  .  . 

Even  now,  Anne  is  not  quite  sure  how 
the  business  of  acting  began.  She  was 
born  in  Boston,  of  a  non-theatrical  family, 
lived  for  a  time  in  White  Plains,  New 
York,  in  England  for  five  years,  then  in 
the  Midwestern  city  of  Columbus,  Ohio. 
When  she  was  a  sophomore  at  Virginia's 
Sweetbriar  College,  she  and  her  best 
friend   decided  to  go  to  New  York.    The 


friend  wanted  to  get  started  as  an  actress. 
Anne  wanted  to  get  started  as  a  writer. 
"You  get  some  idea  of  the  topsy-turvy 
way  things  happened,"  Anne  laughs, 
"when  I  tell  you  that  I  just  finished  read- 
ing Mary  Lee  Settel's  latest  novel,  'Oh 
Beulah  Land,'  in  my  dressing  room  at  the 
studio.  She  was  the  one  who  became  the 
writer — and  I  became  the  actress. 

"We  both  modeled  clothes  for  Powers, 
when  we  first  came  to  New  York.  I  did 
sweaters  and  skirts  and  tweeds,  probably 
because  I  looked  like  the  wholesome  out- 
door type."  (She  still  does,  it  might  be 
noted,  but  with  more  than  a  dash  of  ele- 
gance.) "I  worked  for  a  radio  station,  an 
hour  program  every  Sunday,  just  for  the 
experience,  playing  in  dramatizations  of 
the  great  novels.  I  was  also  an  extra — 
paid,   this   time — on   Cavalcade. 

"I  suppose,"  she  recalled,  "that  what  you 
could  call  my  first  real  theatrical  job  was 
in  summer  stock,  at  twenty-five  dollars  a 
week,  with  $21.50  deducted  for  room  and 
board.  After  three  weeks,  it  was  decided 
I  wasn't  worth  even  that — I  was  so  ter- 
ribly green!— but,  at  the  time,  it  would 
have  bent  the  stock-company  budget  to 
pay  my  train  fare  back  to  New  York  and 
bring  someone  else  in,  so  they  let  me  stay 
on.  By  the  end  of  the  summer,  I  had 
learned  a  great  deal  and  was  no  longer  a 
liability,  although  I  didn't  set  any  stages 
on  fire." 

"Native  Son"  was  Anne's  first  Broadway 
play.  But,  before  that,  she  was  let  out 
of  another  show  while  it  was  stiU  in  re- 
hearsal— and  was  sure  that  meant  the  end 
of  her  acting  career.  However,  this  story 
had  a  happy  ending:  When  there  was 
difficulty  casting  the  ingenue  role  in 
"Native  Son,"  Hiram  Sherman  told  Orson 
Welles  about  the  girl  who  had  been  fired. 
Discouraged,  Ann  had  gone  back  to  visit 
college  friends  in  Virginia  .  .  .  but  they 
tracked  her  down  and  hired  her.  "Native 
Son,"  of  course,  was  a  tremendous  hit. 
The  other  play,  it  turned  out,  flopped. 

The  part  in  "Native  Son"  was  the  kind 
every  young  actress  dreams  of.  Anne 
played  the  girl  who  was  killed-— not  a 
long  part,  but  showy  and  dramatic  .  .  . 
even  after  she  is  killed,  everyone  talks 
about  her  for  the  rest  of  the  play.  In 
some  ways,  Anne  still  looks  upon  it  as  the 
best  role  she  has  ever  had. 

She  was  the  heroine  in  "The  Hasty 
Heart"— a  part  played  later  in  the  movie 
by  Patricia  Neal.  Also,  Ralph  Bellamy's 
wife  in  "Detective  Story"— the  girl 
Eleanor  Parker  later  played  on  the  screen. 
At  one  time,  Anne  Burr  was  doing  parts 
in  five  radio  dramas  a  day,  including 
Wendy  Warren  And  The  News  (which  she 
still  does).  Big  Sister,  When  A  Girl 
Marries,  Backstage  Wife  ("I  played  the 
wicked  Regina,  very  different  from  Claire 
Lowell").  She  was  in  the  radio  company 
of  Studio  One,  doing  many  different 
women — even  "Carmen"! 

Although  Anne  has  studied  singing,  it 
was  never  with  the  idea  of  singing  pro- 
fessionally, but  of  developing  more  flex- 
ibility in  her  speaking  voice  and  learning 
to  use  it  to  the  best  advantage.  There  is 
no  doubt  that  her  voice  is  distinctive,  in- 
teresting, a  voice  one  is  apt  to  remember. 

In  the  early  days  of  television,  when 
Fred  Coe  and  Gordon  Duff  were  putting 
on  the  first  full-length  TV  plays,  she 
worked  under  their  direction,  remembers 
their  doing  the  play,  "Petticoat  Fever," 
when  the  lights  were  frightfully  hot,  the 
actors  costumed  in  heavy  sweaters  and 
fur  parkas!  Later,  she  worked  with  these 
same  two  talented  men  on  the  Philco 
Playhouse. 


One  of  her  first  daytime  dramatic  roles 
on  TV  was  as  the  woman  doctor  in  The 
Greatest  Gift.  The  show  was  telecast  from 
Philadelphia,  for  which  she  caught  an 
early-morning  train,  getting  back  just  in 
time  to  do  her  dinner  shopping  before  the 
store  closed  at  seven  P.M.  .  .  .  Had  she  ever 
dreamed  about  sleeping  late  mornings, 
and  those  glamorous  evenings? 

For  some  time,  she  also  played  Gloria,  a 
torch  singer,  in  The  Guiding  Light,  both 
on  radio  and  TV.  But  it  wasn't  \mtil  she 
began  to  be  Claire,  in  As  the  World  Turns, 
that  viewers  started  to  recognize  her — on 
the  street,  in  the  stores,  wherever  she 
went.  "A  woman  approached  me  at  the 
grocery  recently,"  Anne  notes,  "and  said 
she  had  missed  a  week  of  the  show  and 
would  I  please  tell  her  what  had  been 
happening.  In  Connecticut,  five  of  the 
neighbors  asked  me  about  a  sequence  they 
had  missed  because  of  some  power  failure 
in  the  station  that  usually  brings  the  pro- 
gram in,  so  I  brought  them  up  to  date. 
.  .  .  There  was  a  time  when,  if  I  went  to 
a  restaurant  like  Sardi's,  where  otiaer 
theatrical  people  eat,  I  would  be  recog- 
nized. But  it's  a  wonderful  new  experi- 
ence to  have  total  strangers  say  'Hello, 
Claire,'  as  they  pass  me  in  the  street  .  .  . 
or  stop  me  in  a  store." 

On  the  set,  in  the  waits,  she  does  needle- 
point— house  slippers  for  Tom,  a  fancy 
eyeglass  case  for  her  mother.  One  of  her 
volvmteer  projects  is  recording  textbooks 
for  blind  students,  any  book  that  will  help 
a  blind  boy  or  girl  continue  in  college. 
When  friends  ask  how  she  manages  to  do 
so  much — to  be  wife,  homemaker  and 
hostess,  to  work  regularly  in  radio  and 
television,  to  find  time  for  all  these  other 
occupations — she  has  an   answer. 

"The  only  way  I  know  of  to  be  truly 
happy,"  says  Anne,  "is  to  be  useful  .  .  . 
not  only  because  you  think  you  should  be, 
but  becaiise  something  within  you  will  not 
let  you  rest  in  idleness.  I  get  the  blues 
only  when  I  am  wasting  time,  and  I  am 
just  as  tired  on  the  days  when  I  do  very 
little  as  on  the  days  that  are  filled  with 
activity.  In  one  case,  the  energy  is  di- 
rected. In  the  other,  it  isn't.  There  is  al- 
ways something  waiting  to  be  done,  some- 
thing to  be  made  or  fixed  for  the  house, 
something  that  needs  cleaning  or  straight- 
ening .  .  .  someone  who  needs  some  help. 
"We  go  out  some,  and  we  entertain,  be- 
cause that  is  part  of  my  husband's  life  and 
of  mine,"  Anne  Burr  McDermott  adds. 
"I  enjoy  this.  I  want  people  to  feel  wel- 
come and  comfortable  in  our  home.  If  we 
have  a  party,  I  get  some  help  in  cooking 
arid  serving.  But,  the  rest  of  the  time,  I'm 
the  cook  in  our  household,  and  I  like  it." 
Looking  at  Anne  Burr,  and  listening  to 
this  practical  philosophy,  you  are  re- 
minded of  an  interesting  observation  made 
by  Ruth  Warrick,  who  plays  Edith,  the 
"other  woman"  in  Jim  Lowell's  life — the 
woman  who  is  Claire's  competition.  Ruth 
and  Anne  are  good  friends,  who  respect 
each  other's  talent.  A  Uttle  while  after 
the  program  started,  last  April  1,  Ruth 
said,  Anne,  you  are  so  right  for  Claire, 
and  I  believe  it's  because  you  have  the 
same  'quality'  she  has.  Any  other  woman, 
looking  at  Claire,  wovdd  feel  sure  that  her 
pearls  are  real." 

Anne  laughed,  felt  the  description  was 
for  too  flattering  to  her— if  not  to  Claire. 
But  It's  a  description  with  which  many 
other  women  would  agree.  Looking  at 
Anne  Burr,  they  would  feel  sure  that  her 
ideals  are  real,  too  .  .  .  and  that  she  never 
meant  it  seriously  when  she  said  she 
wanted  to  be  an  actress  because  actresses 
could  sleep  late!  Anne  must  have  known 
that  ...  as  the  world  turns  and  time 
moves  forward  .  .  .  there  are  just  too  many 
mterestmg  and  worthwhDe  things  to  do— 
whether  it's  morning,  noon  or  night. 


OPPORTUNITIES 

FOR  EVERYBODY 

Pubff«h«r*t  Clafiified  Department  (Trademark) 


For  advertiiing  rates,  write  to  William  R.  Stewart,  9  Soufh  Clinton  Street,  Chicago  6  (Worn. -Feb.)  7 


OF  INTEREST  TO  WOMEN 


FREE  CATALOG  1  BIG  Savingsl  The  colorful  National  Bellas 
Hess  Catalog  offers  New  York's  latest  styles  at  lowest  prices 
anywhere.  Clothing  for  the  whole  family,  Household  items, 
Money-back  guarantee,  our  69th  year.  Write  today — National 
Bellas  Hess,  601-2  Bellas  Hess  Building,  Kansas  City,  Mo. 
SADIE  WRIGHT  MADE  $23.00  In  A  Day.  Spare  Time  show- 
ing my  famous  foods,  home  needs  to  friends,  neighbors.  You 
can,  too.  Rush  name  for  Full-Size  Samples,  worth  $2.95  for 

Free  Trial.  Blair,  Dept.  185A,  Lynchburg,  Va. 

$100-$200  MONTHLY  Possible,  Preparing  envelopes,  post- 
cards, from  mailing  lists  at  home.  Longhand,  typewriter. 
Detailed   Instructions  only  25ol  Economy  Publishers,   Box 

1686,  Clearwater  3.  Florida. 

ADVERTISERS  WILL  PAY  TO  S500  for  your  child's  photo 
(all  ages).  Send  one  small  picture.  Print  child's,  parents'  name, 
address  on   back.   Returned   15  days.   Hollywood  Spotlite, 

8346-P2  Beverly  Blvd.,  Hollywood,  Calif. 

$500  FOR  YOUR  child's  photo,  all  ages,  if  used  for  adver- 
tising. Send  photo  for  approval—free  camera  offer.  Returned 
two  weeks.  Advertisers,  6000-YB  Sunset,  Los  Angeles  28. 
$200  MONTHLY  POSSIBLE,  Sewing  Babywearl  No  house 
sellmgl    Send    stamped,    addressed    envelope.    Babygay, 

Warsaw  1,  Indiana. 

DRESSES  24c;  SHOES  39c;  Men's  suits  $4.95;  trousers 
$1.20.  Better  used  clothing.  Free  Catalog.  Transworld  164-A 

Christopher,  Brooklyn  12,  N.Y. 

BUY  WHOLESALE!  DISCOUNTS  to  80%.  Appliances, 
Cameras,  Sporting  Goods,  Tools,  Watches,  Housewares,  etc. 
Free  Catalogs,  Buy-Rite,  Box  258-SK,  Hawthorne,  N.J. 
HOME  SEWERS  WANTED— Earn  extra  cash  making  readi- 
cut  ties  No  selling.  We  instruct.  Free  details:  Jud  San,  518  E. 

105th,  Dept.  B-15,  Cleveland  8,  Ohio. 

$2.00  HOURLY  POSSIBLE  doing  light  assembly  work  at 
home.  Experience  unnecessary.  Crown  Industries,  8507-B 

West  Third,  Los  Angeles  48,  Calif. 

BUY  WHOLESALE,  ONE  or  more  nationally  advertised, 
Watches,  Jewelry,  Appliances,  etc.  Catalog  25c  refundable. 

John  Hall,  1265  Broadway,  New  York. 

EARN  $60.  TO  $70.00  Weekly  Possible,  Preparing  Our 
Postcards  at  Home  Sparetime  Outfit,  $1.00.  Fisher  Products, 

Box  4044-B,  San  Francisco,  Calif. 

$30.00  WEEKLY  MAKING  Roses.  Easy,  Write  Studio  Com- 

pany,  Greenville  3,  Pa. 

MAKE  MONEY  CLIPPING  Newspaper  Items  For  Publish- 
ers.  Write,  Newscraft,  PW-983-E.  Main,  Columbus  5,  Ohio. 
SEW  OUR  READY  cut  aprons  at  home,  spare  time.  Easy, 

Profitable.  Hanky  Aprons,  Ft.  Smith  3,  Ark. 

EARN  $50  FAST  sewing  our  precut  products.  Information  3c. 

Thompson's,  Loganville,  Wisconsin. 

EARN  SPARETIME  CASH  Mailing  Advertising  Literature. 

Glenway,  Box  6568,  Cleveland  1,  Ohio. 

MONEY  MAKING  OPPORTUNITIES 

$40.00  WEEKLY  POSSIBLE  Mailing  Circulars  For  Adver- 
tisers. Complete  Instructions  25c.  Siwaslian,  4317-F  Gleane, 

Elmhurst  73,  N.Y. 

GUARANTEED  HOMEWORKI  IMMEDIATE  Commis- 
sionsl  Free  Outfits!  Hirsch,  1301-12  Hoe,  New  York  City  59. 
OPERATE  RESTAURANT  OR  Diner.  Free  booklet  reveals 

plan.  Write  Restaurant  Arts,  MO-52,  Fremont,  Ohio. 

$25  WEEKLY  POSSIBLE,  sparetime,  preparing  advertising 

mailings  at  home.  Temple  Co.,  Muncie  2,  Indiana. 

HOMEWORKERS    WANTED    PAINTING    novelties.    No 

Selling.  N.  Roland,  R.D.  1,  Vincentown,  N.J. 

$300  MONTHLY  POSSIBLE  mailing  circulars.  Associated 

Advertisers,  509-A  Fifth  Ave.,  New  York  17,  N.Y. 

EARN  MONEY  WITH  Your  Typewriter.  Send  $1.0O-^ames, 

1813  Clinton,  Chicago. 

EXTRA    MONEY    PREPARING    Mailing    Postcards,    Gul, 

1815  Meyers,  Lombard,  Illinois. 

MAKE   YOUR  TYPEWRITER  Earn   Money.  Send  $1.00. 

Hughes,  7004  Diversey,  Chicago  35. 

MAKE  $100.00  WEEKLY  Mailing  Catalogs,  Write;  Products, 

2342S  Washington,  Chicago  12,  III. 

$35  WEEKLY  PREPARING  envelopes.  Instructions  $1.  Re- 

fundable.  Adservice,  Spring  Valley  151,  New  York. 

lOANS  BY  MAIL 

PAY  YOUR  BILLS  Now.  Borrow  $100  to  $600  Cash  by  mail. 
Easy,  quick,  private.  Repay  in  small  monthly  installments 
over  20  months.  Your  payments  may  run  ^4  less  than  now; 
have  money  left  over  to  spend.  Loan  Order  Blank  mailed 
Free  in  plain  envelope.  Advise  amount  needed.  State  Finance 
Co.,  323  Securities  BIdg.,  Dept.  J-69,  Omaha  2,  Nebr. 
BORROW  $50  TO  $500.  Employed  men  and  women  over  25, 
eligible.  Confidential — no  co-signers — no  inquiries  of  employ- 
ers or  friends.  Repay  in  monthly  payments  to  fit  your  income. 
Supervised  by  State  of  Nebraska.  Loan  application  sent  free 
in  plain  envelope.   Give  occupation.   American  Loan   Plan, 

City  National  BIdg.,  Dept.  WD-2,  Omaha,  Nebraska. 

BORROW  BY  MAIL.  $100-$600.  Anywhere.  Air  Mail  Service.' 
Postal  Finance,  200  Keeline  Building,  DepL  653-B,  Omaha  2, 
Nebraska. 

BUSINESS  OPPORTUNITIES 

PREPARE  ADVERTISING  LETTERS.  Mail  to  our  name 
lists.    $50    weekly    possible.    Adams    11603-R    Paramount: 

Downey,  California. 

INVISIBLY  MEND  DAMAGED  garments  at  home.  Make  big 
money.  Details  Free.  Fabricon,  8340-S  Prairie,  Chicago  19,  III. 
FREE  BOOK.  GROW  Mushrooms.  Guaranteed  Market 
Mushrooms,  Dept.  412,  2954  Admiral   Way,  Seattle,  Wash. 

HOME  SEWERS  OPPORTUNITIES 
SEW  BABY  SHOES  at  home!  $40  week  possible.  We  con- 

tact  stores  for  you.  Tiny-Tot,  Gallipolis  19,  Ohio. 

STAMP  COLLECTING 

U.  S.  STAMPS.  DISCOUNT  Priced.  Giant  Catalog-15c. 
Raymax,  35-VPA  Maidenlane,  NYC  38. 


JUPER 

All-  Purpose 
Card  and  Note  As 
sortment  pays  yon  SI. 25 
cash  on  every  box.  Friends  bn 
on  Eight.  Newest  SLIM  can 
Mother's  Day.  Eastern  Star,  Secret  Pal 
all  occasions.  Bi;?  line  fast-sellinR  Costnmo       ^ 
Jewelry,  Gift  Items.  Profits  to  150%  on  Factory 
Surplas  Bargains  while  supply  lasts.  No  exper- 
ience needed.    Get  new  boxes  and  Gift  on  ap- 
proval;  Bargain  list.  Stationery  samples  FREE.   __^^^_^^_^^^ 

MIDWEST  CARD  CO.,1 1 1 3  Washington,  Dept.TSS-S.St.Loulsl.Mo, 


50  on  just  50 


GREETING  CARD 

Assortments 


SEND  FOR 
SAMPLES 


HELP  WANTED 

IF  YOU'RE  INTERESTED  in  making  money  in  sellinp,  in 
spare  time  or  in  full  time,  see  the  hundreds  of  exceptional 
opportunities  in  Opportunity  Magazine.  Send  name  for  your 
copy,  absolutely  Free.  Opportunity,  848  N.  Dearborn,  Dept.  41, 

Chicago  10,  I IL 

BEAUTY  DEMONSTRATORS— TO  $5  hour  demonstrating 
Famous  Hollywood  Cosmetics,  your  neighborhood.  For  free 
samples,  details,  write  Studio  Girl,  Glendaie,  Calif.,  Dept. 
167a-C. 


NEW  HOME  CLUB  Plan  Sensation!  Style  Shows— Child- 
ren's, Adults'  apparel  easily  earns  $20.00-$40.00  evenings. 
Prizes.  Gifts,  fun!  Experience  unnecessary.  Complete  outfit 
furnished.   Beeline  Fashions,   Bensenville  702,   Illinois. 


IF  YOU  WANT  to  earn  money  fast,  I'll  send  you  Free  Sample 
Stocking  Of  newest  Stretch  DuPont  Nylons  to  sell  at  only  $1 
a  pair.  American  Mills,  Dept.  606,  Indianapolis  7,  Ind. 
EARN  EXTRA  MONEY  selling  Advertising  Book  Matches. 
Free  sample  kit  furnished.  Matchcorp,  Dept.  WP-34,  Chicago 

32,  Illinois. 

HOME  SEWING.  READY-Cut  Rap-Around.  Profitable.  Free 
instructions.  Hollywood  Manufacturing,  Hollywood  46,  Calif. 
HOMEWORK  ON  HAND-made  moccasins  and  bags.  Easy, 
Profitable.  California  Handicrafts,  Los  Angeles  46,  California. 
$5.00  DAILY  MAKING  Orchids.  No  selling.  Free  sample. 
Boycan,  Sharon  42,  Penna. 

OlD  COINS  »  MONEY  WANTED . 

$4,000.00  FOR  1913  Liberty  Head  Nickel.  Uncirculated 
Dollars  1804  to  1839,  1893-S,  1895-P,  1903-O  pay  $100.00— 
$5,000.00.  Certain  dates— Small  Cents  before  1915,— $325.00: 
Dimes  before  1 91 7.— $2,000.00 ;  Quarters  before  1924,— 
$1,000.00;  Half  Dollars  Before  1905,— $1,000.00;  2c  pieces, 
—$70.00;  3c  pieces,— $90.00;  Halfdimes,— $500.00.  Hundreds 
of  others  worth  $1 0.00-$1,000.00.  Canadian  Coins,— 1921— 
5c  Silver,  $50.00.  1889— Dimes,— $25.00.  1875  Quarters,— 
$50.00.  1921— 50c— $200.00.  Wanted— 20c  Pieces,  Gold 
Coins,  Paper  Money,  etc.  Our  large  illustrated  Guarantee 
Buying — Selling  Catalogue,  Giving  Complete  Allcoin  informa- 
tion— Send  $1.00.  Purcnase  Catalogue  before  sending  coins. 
Worthycoin    Corporation,    Leaders    Numismatic   Quotations 

K-253-C,  Boston  8,  Massachusetts. 

$100.00  FOR  CERTAIN  Indianheads;  Lincoln  pennies  $50.00. 
Booklet   showing    prices   paid,   25c.    Lincoln   Coins,    D-276, 

Glendaie,  Arizona. 

WE  PURCHASE  INDIANHEAD  pennies.  Complete  allcoin 
catalogue  25c.  Magnacoins,  Box  61-JX,  Whitestone  57,  N.  Y. 
WE  BUY  ALL  rare  American  coins.  Complete  catalogue  25c. 
Fairview.  Box  1116-CB,  New  York  City  8. 

EDUCATIONAL  OPPORTUNITIES 

DENTAL  NURSING.  PREPARE  at  home  for  big  pay  career 
Chairside  duties,  reception,  laboratory.  Personality  Develop- 
ment. Free  Book.  Wayne  School,  Lab.  BA-16,  2521  Sheffield, 
Chicago  14. 

COM PLETE  YOUR  HIGH  School  at  home  in  spare  time  with 
60-year-old  school.  Texts  furnished.  No  classes.  Diploma. 
Information    booklet   free.    American   School,    Dept.    X274 

Drexel  at  58th,  Chicago  37,  Illinois. 

HIGH  SCHOOL  DIPLOMA  at  home.  Licensed  teachers 
Approved  materials.  Southern  States  Academy,  Box  144W 

Station  E,  Atlanta,  Georgia. 

FREE!  "TALENT  APTITUDE  Test"  Learn  acting  at  home 
for  TV,  radio,  theater,  movie  career.  Hollywood  Royal  Acade- 
my.  Studio  B1,  5880  Hollywood  Blvd.,  Hollywood  28,  Calif. 

SALESWOMEN  WANTED  ' 

ANYONE  CAN  SELL  famous  Hoover  Uniforms  for  beauty 
shops,  waitresses,  nurses,  doctors,  others.  All  popular  miracle 
fabrics — nylon,  dacron,  orlon.  Exclusive  styles,  top  quality. 
Big  cash  income  now,  real  future.  Equipment  free.  Hoover. 
Dept.  C-119,  New  York  11,  N.Y. 

EVERYDAY  CARDS!  MAKE  Big  Money!  Sell  21  "Tall" 
greeting  cards,  $1.00.  400  other  fast  selling  gifts,  greetings, 
personalized  specialties.  Samples  on  approval.  Write,  Arrow, 
Dept.  A  4th  Ave.  So.,  Minneapolis,  MiJin. 

AGENTS  WANTED 

SHINE  CARS  WITHOUT  "Polish."  New  invention.  Light- 
ning seller.  Cars  gleam  like  mirror.  Samples  sent  on  trial 
Kristee  147,  Akron,  Ohio. 

60%  PROFIT  COSMETICS.  $25  Day  Up.  Hire  others 
Samples,  details.  Studio  Girl  Hollywood,  Glendaie.  Calif 
Dept.  1672-H. 

CALIFORNIA  SWEET  SMELLING  Beads.  Sensational 
sellers.  Free  Particulars.  Mission,  2328AA  West  Pico,  Los 
Angeles  6,  California. 

INSTRUCTION 

HIGH  SCHOOL— NO  Classes.  Study  at  home.  Spare  Time. 
Diploma  awarded.  Write  for  Free  Catalog  HCH-40.  Wavne 
School,  2527  Sheffield,  Chicago  14,  III. 

HEALTH  &  MEDICAL  SERVICE 

FREE  BOOK— PILES,  Fistula,  Colon-Stomach,  associated 
conditions.  Newest  scientific  procedures.  Thornton  Minor 
Hospital,  Suite  C-213,  Kansas  City  9,  Mo. 

FOREIGN  &  U.S.A.  JOB  LISTINGS 

HIGH  PAYING  JOBS.  All  types.  Foreign  U.S.  Chance  to 
travel.  Fare  paid.  Application  forms.  For  information  Write 
Dept.  95B,  National,  Newark,  N.J. 

PERSONAL 

YOUR  HANDWRITING  ANALYZED  free.  Enclose  stamp. 
IGAS,  Inc.,  Springfield  4,  Missouri. 

WORK  AT  HOME 

$18.00  WEEKLY,  HANDPAINTING  novelty  Trays.  No 
selling.  Flocraft,  Farrell  5,  Penna. 


f/tie 


MATERNITY 
STYLE  CATALOG 


BIG  96-page  illustrated  catalog.  Hun- 
dreds of  exclusive,  economy- priced 
Maternity  Fashions.  FREE  GIFT  CHECK 
with  catalog  eives  EXTRA  discounts  on 
first  order.  World's  largest  selections  — 
Maternity  dresses,  suits,  separates,  sports- 
wear, girdles,  bras,  lingerie.  $1.00  to  $20.00. 
Write  TODAY-CRAWFORD'S 
Dept.  35,  8015  Wornall  Rd.,  Kansas  City  14,  Missouri 


75 


Arlene  Francis — Who  Does  It  All  Herself 


(Continued  from  page  47) 
Among  the  most  important  nieces  of  this 
puzzle  are  Arlene's  daily  doings.  "As  in 
millions  of  homes  across  the  country,"  Ar- 
lene acknowledges,  "my  day  starts  at  seven 
o'clock  in  the  morning.  At  least  that's  my 
rising  hour  during  the  week.  Sometimes 
over  the  weekend,  if  I've  been  up  to  see 
the  wee  hours  in  with  Martin,  my  hus- 
band, I  recoup  with  an  extra  hour  or  two 
Saturday  or  Sunday  morning.  But,  for  the 
moment,  let's  stick  with  the  Monday- 
through-Friday  routine.  I  have  breakfast 
with  Peter,  my  nine-year-old  son,  and 
this  always  starts  the  day  off  just  perfectly. 
He's  such  a  wonderful  boy  and  I'm  so 
proud  of  him  .  .  .  but,  I  guess,  so  are  all 
mothers,  and  if  I  ever  get  off  on  Peter — 
well,  that  will  be  a  completely  different 
story.  So  back  to  'my  day.' 

"It  may  sound  strange  that  I  don't  in- 
clude my  husband  as  a  member  of  the 
breakfast-table  set.  The  fact  is,  he  keeps 
theater  hours,  so  his  breakfast  hour  comes 
considerably  later  in  the  day,"  she  explains 
parenthetically,  then  continues:  "At  eight 
o'clock,  I  must  be  at  the  studio  for  re- 
hearsal of  the  Home  show.  Sometimes,  be- 
fore leaving  the  house  in  the  morning,  I 
have  a  chance  to  talk  to  the  invaluable 
couple  I  have  who  make  it  possible  for  me 
to  work  and  run  a  home  at  the  same  time. 
If  I  don't  get  to  go  over  the  next  day's 
plans  with  them  in  the  morning,  we  have 
our  conference,  as  it  were,  when  I  return 
home  in  the  afternoon.  I  try  to  arrange 
things  at  home  so  we  are  always  working 
at  least  a  day  in  advance.  This  way,  we 
keep  confusion  down  to  a  minimum. 

"From  eight  o'clock  until  just  before  air 
time,  there  are  rehearsals  for  the  day's 
show,  which  goes  'on  camera'  from  ten 
to  eleven  A.M.,  New  York  time.  Imme- 
diately after  the  show,  a  multitude  of 
things  are  apt  to  take  place — such  as  meet- 
ings with  our  various  clients,  looking  at 
films  for  the  next  day's  show,  photograph- 
ing, interviewing  (such  as  today),  going 
over  scripts  for  the  next  day,  meeting 
with  various  members  of  the  Home  staff, 
and  so  on.  Oh,  yes,  also  lunch — which  I 
often  miss  and  replace  with  a  vitamin  pill. 
"Afternoons  are  usually  devoted  to  an- 
swering mail,  wardrobe  fittings,  recording 
sessions,  viewing  kinescopes  that  will  be 
used  on  upcoming  shows  and /or  working 
on  the  details  of  out-of-town  shows  .  .  . 
you  know,  Hom,e  moves  around  quite  a  bit. 
By  no  means  do  all  of  our  programs  orig- 
inate here  in  the  New  York  studios.  Wher- 
ever there  are  television  facilities  capable 
of  handling  the  program,  that's  where  we 
like  to  be." 

By  the  time  all  these  activities  are  ac- 
coimted  for,  so  is  the  afternoon,  and  Ar- 
lene whisks  home  to  take  up  the  pleasant 
duties  of  being  Mrs.  Martin  Gabel,  mother 
of  Peter.  Almost  without  fail,  she  is  home 
by  five  o'clock  at  the  latest.  "I  like  to  be  at 
the  apartment,"  she  explains,  "when  Peter 
gets  home  from  school.  However,  this  isn't 
always  possible  and,  if  Peter  gets  there 
first,  he  usually  sits  down  to  his  piano 
practicing — so  that,  when  I  arrive,  we  can 
be  together  to  talk  over  his  day's  activities, 
the  latest  sports  events  and  all  the  things 
nine-year-old  boys  find  so  fascinating. 
Peter's  not  only  a  good  student,  but  an 
interested  one,  and  likes  to  have  me  around 
when  he's  doing  his  homework. 

"Actually,  I  love  it.  It's  amazing  the 
T  things  you've  forgotten  since  you  were 
V  nine  .  .  .  particularly,  in  my  case,  math- 
R  ematics,  which  happens  to  be  one  of 
Peter's  outstanding  gifts.  And  I  really  do 
find  it  exciting  when  he  can  do  fractions 
rjQ  in  his  head  and  arrive  at  the  correct  an- 


swer long  before  I  can  figure  them  out  on 
paper.  But  there  I  go  again  on  my  favorite 
subject!" 

During  this  "game,"  Arlene  s  actor -pro- 
ducer-director-husband (who  was  in  "Will 
Success  Spoil  Rock  Hunter?"  until  he  left 
to  produce  another  Broadway  show,  "Hid- 
den River")  generally  arrives  home  from 
the  theater,  and  the  Gabel  threesome  have 
a  period  of  relaxation.  "When  ^  Martm  s 
working  on  a  Broadway  show,"  Arlene 
continues,  "he  has  to  dine  early  in  order 
to  get  to  the  theater  .  .  .  much  too  early 
for  Peter  or  me.  So  I  sit  at  the  table  and 
chat  with  him  while  he  eats.  And  later  on, 
at  a  more  normal  hour,  Peter  and  1  have 
dinner.  I  must  admit  that,  as  a  result  of 
this  schedule,  there  are  times  when  I 
think  the  main  activity  going  on  in  the 
Gabel  household  is  eating!  Of  coiirse  it 
isn't  so,  but  occasionally  it  seems  like  that 
to  me  when  I  find  myself  sitting  at  the 
same  table,  looking  at  the  same  meal  twice 
in  a  relatively  short  period  of  time." 

One  would  think  that,  by  the  time  Ar- 
lene got  Martin  off  to  the  theater  and 
Peter  off  to  bed,  she,  too,  would  be  ready 
to  turn  in.  Not  so,  however,  \yith  tele- 
vision's queen  femcee  and  panelist.  It's  at 
this  point  that  she  sits  down  to  read,  a 
pastime  into  which  she  was  prodded  years 
ago  by  her  husband.  Always  a  glib  talker, 
it's  this  reading  which  has  made  it  possible 
for  Arlene  to  talk  intelligently  on  a  multi- 
tude of  topics.  However,  much  as  she 
might  like  to  sit  up  all  night  with  a  good 
book,  she  turns  off  the  lights  at  ten  o'clock 
so  the  next  morning's  TV  camera  won't 
scream  back  at  her,  "You  should  have  gone 
to  bed  earlier!" 

But  these  are  just  the  nights  when  there 
are  no  Broadway  openings  or  visiting  fire- 
men demanding  her  time.  These  are  the 
easy  nights.  "Martin  and  I  are  very  lucky," 
Arlene  explains,  her  face  lighting  up  with 
that  well-known  smile.  "We  have  so  many 
friends  .  .  .  friends  from  one  coast  to  the 
other,  from  one  side  of  the  ocean  to  the 
other.  And,  when  they  come  to  New  York, 
I'm  happy  to  say  we're  on  their  visiting 
lists.  So,  the  entertaining  of  friends  takes 
care  of  a  good  portion  of  the  evenings. 
Then  there  are  the  Broadway  openings, 
too.  Of  course,  on  such  nights  I'm  not  in 
bed  by  ten  .  .  .  not  by  a  long  shot.  But,  to 
counteract  these  nights,  I  try  to  set  aside 
one  night  a  week  when  I'm  in  bed  by 
seven  .  .  .  one  really  long  night's  sleep 
does  wonders  in  the  repair  department. 

"And  there,  in  brief,  you  have  my  week- 
day schedule.  As  for  weekends,  life's  quite 
different — that  is,  until  Sunday  night,  when 
I  have  to  be  at  the  studio  by  nine  o'clock 
in  the  evening  for  What's  My  Line?  In  the 
summertime,  I  retreat  to  our  house  in  Mt. 
Kisco.  Even  though  Martin's  and  my 
schedules  make  it  impossible  for  us  to  live 
in  the  country,  we  bought  the  Mt.  Kisco 
house  so  that  Peter  could  enjoy  suburban 
Uving  during  his  summer  vacation. 

"There's  nothing  elegant  about  our  sum- 
mer home.  It's  small  but  is  situated  on  top 
of  a  hill  from  which  there's  a  breathtaking 
view.  To  city  dwellers,  this  in  itself  is 
therapeutic.  Besides  that,  it  gives  me  an 
opportunity  to  pursue  a  hobby  .  .  .  do-it- 
yourself.  Now  there's  no  point  in  laugh- 
ing ...  I  am.  a  do-it-yourselfer.  I  love  to 
paint — absolutely  anything.  I  love  to  re- 
finish  furniture.  And  you  should  see  how 
great  I  am  at  laying  carpets!  Which  re- 
minds me  of  a  very  funny  story:  The  first 
weekend  we  were  in  the  Mt.  Kisco  home, 
Phyllis  Cerf  and  I  were  laying  the  living- 
room  carpet — one  which  is  actually  created 
by  putting  squares  together  ...  a  trick 
I  learned  on  the  Home  show  and  which, 
like  a  lot  of  hints  I've  picked  up  from  the 


program,  worked  out  just  beautifully.  But 
to  get  back  to  the  story:  I  don't  remember 
whether  we  were  in  dimgarees  or  just 
exactly  what  our  'work'  outfits  were.  Obvi- 
ously, however,  we  looked  pretty  seedy. 

"In  the  midst  of  our  activities,  the  front 
doorbell  rang.  Trying  to  protect  me, 
Phyllis  offered  to  answer  the  door  while 
I  tried  to  hide  under  the  carpet  squares. 
Well,  it  turned  out  to  be  a  very  nice  lady 
who  took  one  fast  look  around,  gasped 
and  explained  that  she  was  a  neighbor  . . . 
had  come  to  say  'welcome'  .  .  .  hadn't  real- 
ized that  the  'charladies'  would  still  be 
working  .  .  .  would  return  another  day.  So 
there  you  have  a  picture  of  me  pursuing 
my  hobby  ...  a  charlady. 

"I've  done  quite  a  bit  with  our  New 
York  apartment,  too.  Up  to  a  short  time 
ago,  we  had  a  darling  little  house  with  a 
garden  right  in  the  heart  of  Manhattan. 
However,  after  a  few  prowlers,  Martin  and 
I  decided  that— for  the  safety  of  Peter,  if 
nothing  else — a  well-guarded  apartment 
would  be  better  for  us.  So  we  now  have 
a  twelve-room  one,  not  too  far  away 
from  Central  Park.  When  I  was  in  Japan 
last  year,  I  almost  lost  my  mind  over  the 
lovely  native  silks  and  brought  back  yards 
and  yards  of  magnificent  material  which 
I  had  made  into  drapes  and  used  as  the 
decorating  background  for  the  apartment 
as  a  whole.  Since  it  was  quite  a  change 
from  our  other  establishment,  it  meant 
some  refinishing  of  furniture  .  .  .  but,  even 
if  that  hadn't  been  necessary,  I  would 
probably  have  brought  out  the  sandpaper, 
paint  remover,  turp,  etcetera,  just  to  in- 
dulge myself." 

Doing   things   with   her   hands   is   by   no 
means   her    only    extracurricular   activity. 
Quite    a    few    charities    and   organizations 
call  on  her  free  time  .  .  .  such  as  United 
Cerebral  Palsy,  Heart  Association,  Cancer 
Drive,  and  Muscular  Dystrophy  Drive,  to 
name  a  few.  Busy  as  she  is,  Arlene  is  an  . 
avid  worker  on  behalf  of  organizations  and 
charities  close  to  her  heart,  her  one  regret . 
being  that  she  hasn't  "more  time  to  devote : 
to  them."  I 

"There  is  just  one  other  thing,"  Arlene 
offered  a  little  hesitantly.  "Broadway.  As 
you  may  know,  I've  been  in  quite  a  num-| 
ber  of  Broadway  shows  .  .  .  twenty-odd.! 
to  be  somewhat  accurate.  Most  of  them  did! 
a    fast    fold— but    'Doughgirls'    and    'Latei 
Love'  were  sizeable  successes.  As  much  asl 
I  love  and  am  grateful  to  television,  theref 
will  always  be  a  corner  of  my  heart  re-« 
served  for  the  theater,  and  at  this  moment 
it  looks  as  though  I  may  do  a  play  for  my 
husband  this  year. 

"I  know — like  so  many  others,  you're 
wondering  how  I  can  possibly  do  a  Broad-. 
way  show  in  addition  to  Home  and  What's-, 
My  Line?  Well,  to  be  quite  honest,  it  will 
be  quite  a  load,  but  at  the  moment  I'm  notj 
going  to  worry  about  it.  Which,  perhaps, 
is  one  of  the  two  great  advantages  I  have 
.  .  .  first,  the  good  Lord  blessed  me  with 
exceptionally  good  health.  Second,  I  don't 
worry.  In  fact,  I  don't  even  think  too  much 
about  the  future.  Someone  on  the  show 
tries  to  tell  me  what's  going  to  hapoen  on 
Home  two  days  ahead,  I  simply  shake  my 
head  and  tell  them  to  repeat  it  the  next 
day  .  .  .  two  days'  advance  notice  will 
merely  confuse  me  and  might  start  me 
worrying  .  .  .  and  worry  simply  dissipates 
energy.  In  a  general  way,  of  course,  I  plan 
for  the  future,  but  I  concentrate  on  the 
day's  activities  and,  by  so  doing,  find  that 
the  future  takes  care  of  itself." 

And  there  you  have  a  good  many  of  the 
puzzle  pieces  that  go  to  make  up  Arlene 
Francis,  one  of  the  most  frequently  seen 
artists  on  television  today.  But  they're  the 
comparatively  easy  pieces  to  spot.  It's  the 


paradox  element  that  makes  the  comple- 
tion of  the  pxizzle  impossible,  and  the  lady 
in  question  so  fascinating. 

For  example,  take  her  sophistication. 
Born  on  the  proper  side  of  Boston's  tracks 
(her  father  was  a  prosperous  painter- 
photographer  of  Armenian  descent),  Ar- 
lene  was  raised  in  the  midst  of  interesting 
and  socially  correct  people.  Her  father  was 
so  horrified,  when  he  discovered  her  teen- 
age urge  to  enter  the  theater,  that  he 
hurried  her  off,  with  her  mother,  to  Europe 
for  several  months  in  a  futile  effort  to 
stifle  the  urge.  On  the  surface,  Arlene 
leads  a  glamorous  life  .  .  .  TV,  theater, 
night  clubs,  Broadway  openings,  festive 
parties.  But,  in  reality,  she  is  the  out-and- 
out  sentimentalist  who  constantly  wears 
a  heart-shaped  diamond  pendant  given  her 
ten  years  ago  by  her  husband  on  their 
first  anniversary.  Her  wedding  ring  also 
contains  diamond  hearts,  and  she  has  a 
"hit"  bracelet  on  which  hang  charms  sym- 
bolizing each  of  her  radio,  TV  and  theater 
roles  ...  a  bracelet  which,  by  now,  is  three 
bands  wide.  A  sophisticate  isn't  supposed 
to  be  a  sentimentalist.  It  makes  fitting 
pieces  into  a  puzzle  very  difficult. 

Then  take  the  matter  of  dressing.  Among 
her  personal  and  viewing  friends,  Arlene 
is  known  as  an  elegant  dresser  ...  a 
fashion  plate.  But  some  of  her  happiest 
moments  are  spent  in  "charlady"  dunga- 
rees and  the  like. 

Her  daily  business  activities  alone  are 
Herctdean  enough  to  wear  down  most  of 
the  so-called  stronger  sex  ...  if  not  from 
actual  physical  strain,  certainly  from 
'  worry  that  not  all  can  possibly  be  accom- 
plished. Not  so  Arlene,  an  oasis  in  the 
middle  of  Ulcer  Gulch.  The  moment  her 
head  hits  the  pillow,  she's  off  in  deep  and 
restful  sleep.  "There's  a  time  and  place  for 
everything,  and  tomorrow  wUl  take  care 
of  itself  just  as  today  did.  Add  to  that  the 
fact  that  she's  a  perfect  wife,  mother  and 
homemaker,  and  you  have  a  few  more 
puzzle  pieces  which  can't  possibly  fit. 

Perhaps  the  final  straw  is  her  wealth  of 
information.  On  top  of  everything  else  she 
does,  how  does  she  possibly  find  the  time 
or  energy  to  acquire  it?  Actually,  it  doesn't 
seem  to  present  anywhere  near  as  much 
of  a  problem  to  Arlene  as  it  does  to  her 
admirers.  She  has  the  neat,  orderly  mind 
that  retains  what  it  has  read,  even  though 
the  subject  matter  may  have  been  covered 
rather  rapidly.  An  ardent  talker,  she  is 
just  as  ardent  a  listener  (a  blatant  para- 
dox!) and,  from  her  family  and  circle  of 
friends,  picks  up  as  much  information  from 
listening  as  from  reading.  That  tip  she  was 
passing  around  that  Don  Larsen  was  going 
to  pitch  a  no-hit  game  in  the  last  World 
Series  came  directly  from  the  lips  of  her 
sports-wise  son.  Usually,  however,  the  in- 
formation gleaned  from  talking,  listening 
and  reading  is  carefully  tucked  away  for 
future  reference  ...  is  often  aired  again 
right  before  your  eyes  in  ad-lib  talks  with 
guests  on  Home  or  quips  on  Whafs  My 
Line?  A  dynamo  who  can  turn  party  talk 
into  Home  conversation?  Oh,  no,  it  just 
doesn't  fit  anywhere! 

^^  Yes,  without  a  doubt  the  lady  is  A 
"puzzlement,"  and  the  completion  of  the 
puzzle  would  be  far  too  great  a  task  for 
mere  human  beings  to  tmdertake.  Like 
millions  of  viewers,  it's  best  to  just  sit  back 
and  enjoy  watching  Arlene  Francis— the 
whirlwind  of  the  television  screen,  who 
once  tried  to  explain  herself  with  the  brief 
words:  "I  simply  find  pleasure  in  activity 
itself."  ■^ 

tBUY  U.  S.  SAVINGS  BONDS 
AND  INVEST  IN  YOUR  FUTURE 
**ickifkirkirkirkirkititifkir-k-k*iric-kit 


m 


s 


SIZES 

MVi  TO 

26'/! 


ENJOY  BETTER  nT  and  buly  youthful 
smartness;  save  money  tool  Shop  by  mail 
from  new  Hayes  Half-Size  Style  Catalog. 
Hayes  styles  are  different  because  they 
are  Proportion-ized  for  YOU.  Sizes:  12'/2 
to  26'/2,  all  at  money-saving  low  prices. 

Graceful  front-gored  skirt  and  the  rhinestone^trimmed 
tab  of  this  Linen -lil^e  Rayon  Dress  are  important  fashion 
details— only  $5.98.  Other  dresses  $2.98  to  $19.98. 
Coats  $12.98  up.  Shoes  and  hose.  Also  suits,  sportswear, 
robes,  slips,  corsets,  and  underwear— Proportion-ized 
to  fit  your  half-size  figure  perfectly.  All  at  low  prices. 

Mail  the  coupon  now  for  your  FREE 
copy  of  Hayes  Half-Size  Style  Catalog. 


DEPT.  401 

—INDIANAPOLIS  47 , 

INDIANA 

Please  rush  FREE  Hayes  Catalog  o£  Half-Size  Styles, 
priced  low  and  Proportion-ized  for  perfect  fit.  (401) 

Name 
Address 


Post  Office 


State 


OLD  LEG  TROUBLE 


H 


Easy  to  use  Viscose  Applications  may 
heal  many  old  leg  sores  due  to  venous 
fi]^  congestion  of  varicose  veins,  leg  swell- 
ing or  injuries.  Send  today  for  a  FREE 
BOOK  and  No-Cost-For-Trial-plan. 

R.  G.    VISCOSE  COMPANY 
140  N.  Dearborn  Street,  Chicago  2,  Illinois 


People  60  to  80: 
Tear  Out  This  Ad 


. . .  and  mail  it  today  to  find  out  how 
you  can  still  apply  for  a  $1,000  life 
insurance  policy  to  help  take  care 
of  final  expenses  without  burdening 
your  family. 

You  handle  the  entire  transaction 
by  mail  with  OLD  AMERICAN  of 
KANSAS  CITY.  No  obligation.  No 
one  will  call  on  you! 

Write  today,  simply  giving  your 
name,  address  and  age.  Mail  to  Old 
American  Ins.  Co.,  1  West  9th,  Dept, 
L270M,  Kansas  City,  Mo. 


DANCING  SHOES— SUPPLIES 

Elastic     Leotard     with     Nylon     net     tu     tu     ^ 

Ideal  Recital  Costume.  Pastel  Shades,  Black  &  Red.^ 

Child's.2to  12, $3.95;  Adult's, Sm.,Med..  Lg.,$4.75.\ 

BATON— DRUM  CORPS  SUPPLIES 

SKATING  SKIRTS— Roller  or  Ice. 

Catalog  20c  (may  be  applied  to  purchase) 

Quincon  Supplies,  Dept.  R,Box422,(liiincy  69,MasSi 


CATALOG 

every  month! 


Biggest  news  of  the  season! 
FREE — not  one  but  every 
issue  of  FLORIDA  FASH- 
IONS famous  Style  Cata- 
log for  six  months.  Imagine 
— a  whole  season  of  glam- 
our news,  exciting  values, 
guaranteed  savings  for  all 
the  family.  Be  first  with 
the  newest  and  smartest — shop  at 
Florida  Fashions,  Dept.  j7F2,  Orlando,  Flo. 

FLORIDA  FASHIONS,  Dept.  57F2 
4501  E.  Colonial  Drive,  Orlando,  Fla. 

Please  rush  my  FREE  copy  of  Florida  Fashions  latest  Style 
Catalog.  I  understand  I  also  will  receive,  FREE,  every  new 
issue  for  next  six  months. 
PRINT 

NAME  

PRINT 
ADDRESS 


PRINT 
POSTOFFICE 


STATE 


(Continued  from  page  51) 
on  her  lap.  She  hadn't  the  least  real  fear 
-not  real  fear!-as  she  lifted  the  cover. 
But  the  box  was  empty. 
She  looked  at  it,  turning  deathly  white. 
She  remembered  putting  the  doll  away, 
in  this  box,  in  that  bureau  drawer.  Its 
happened  again!  she  thought,  dry-throated. 
But  it  can't  he!  I  remember  so  distinctly. 
And  then  she  began  frantically  to  search 
the  other  bureau  drawers,  to  empty  ner 
closet,  to  search  in  ridiculous  hidmg- 
places  to  find  the  doll  that  nobody  else 
in  the  world  would  have  wanted  to  hide 
Nobody  but  herself,  if  it  had  happened 
again.  ...  .     ,i        u 

Presently    she    wept    hysterically,    her 

hands    pressed    against   her   temples    bhe 

flung  herself  on  the  bed  and  buried  her 

head  under  the  pillows,  fighting  to  keep 

from  screaming.  .    , ,  ,        ,  ^ 

It  was  not  the  doll,  as  such.  She  d  bought 

it  for  Bebe,  to  make  her  quite  the  most 

special    present    that    a    little    girl    could 

receive.  It  did  not  matter  that  even  this 

doll  was  missing.  What  did  matter-what 

made  her  want  terribly  to  die-was  that      , 

her  mind  was  playing  tricks  on  her    bne 

remembered  tucking  the  doll  lovingly  m 

this  very  box,  and  putting  it  in  this  very 

bureau  drawer.  Nobody  else  would  have 

touched  it.  But,  just  as  had  happened  m 

other  matters,  she  was  finding  that  she  d 

done    something    insane— she    must    have 

done  it!— of  which  she  now  had  no  memory 

at  all.  She  must  have  taken  the  doll  out 

of  the  box.  She  wanted  to  scream  again, 

as   she   guessed   the   maniacal   things   she 

might  have  done  to  it.  And,  if  somethmg 

like    this    had    happened    again,    she    was 

a  failure  even  at  staying  sane! 

She  wept  exhaustedly.  And,  while  she 
wept,  she  longed  terribly  for  relief  from 
this  despair.  She  knew  that  she  could  have 
relief.  She  had  only  to  go  to  the  cupboard 
where  the  bottles  were.  She  could  go 
there  And,  in  a  little  while,  she  would 
feel  confident  and  strong  and  sure  and 
unafraid.  It  would  mean  fresh  disgrace, 
of  course.  Harry  would  look  coldly  dis- 
gusted when  he  found  her  vague-eyed 
and  thick-tongued.  But  she  couldn  t  sutler 
like  this! 

After  a  long  and  bitter  struggle— which 
she   knew    in    advance    she   would    lose— 
she  got  up  and  began  to  feel  her  way  to 
that     infinitely     treacherous     solace,     bhe 
wished    desperately    that,    sometimes,    she 
might    find    herself    relieved    of    anguish 
without  the   memory   of   failure— without 
memory   of  giving   in.     Then   she  realized 
abruptly    that    this    was    one    thing    that 
she  had  never  yet  done  without  her  own 
knowledge.  She  might  crazily  tear  off  the 
head   of  the  doll   named   after   Jack— and 
not    remember    it.    She    must    have,    be- 
cause  nobody   else   would  have  done   so. 
She'd    been    terribly    upset    about    JacK, 
then,    and    Harry'd    asked    if    she  d    been 
trying  to  work  voodoo  magic  to  get  him 
killed   in   some   automobile   accident.   And 
then  he'd  gone  to  the  closet  where  shed 
put    the    doll-collection    carefully    away, 
and    he'd    come    out    with    the    doll    that 
resembled    him,    and    found    that    there 
were   pins   stuck   in   it   all   over.   He   had 
seemed    angry.    More    voodoo    he    asked. 
But    he    was     most     shocked     when    he 
searched    again    and    came    out    ^ylth    the 
doll  called  Marilyn— with  Marilyn  s  color- 
ing   and  clothed  like  her— and  pointed  to 
a    bit    of    blood-red    ribbon    stabbed    into 
the  doll's  sawdust  breast. 
T        "You    not    only    stick    pins    in    a    doll 
*     vou've  named  for  me,"   said  Harry,  m  a 
"     tone   of   revulsion,   "but  you   stab   a   doll 
named   for  my   secretary,   and  Put  a   red 
ribbon  for  blood  to  gloat  over!  Isn  t  there 
78 


The  Edge  Of  Night 

any  limit  to  what  you'll  do?"  he  asked 
She'd  been  struck  dumb,  then,  bhe 
didn't  remember  doing  it.  But  nobody 
else  could  have  done  it,  and  she  bitterly 
hated  MarUyn.  She  knew  that  Marilyn 
had  been  more  than  merely  Harrys 
secretary.  She  was.  .  .  .  She  w^/-  •  •  ,•  .  , 
But  she'd  never  taken  a  first  fatal  drmK 
without  remembering  it!  Never  without 
an  anguished  struggle— and  failure—to 
endure  the  pain  of  failure  and  unwanted- 
ness.  She'd  learned  that  she  must  have 
done  other  mad  things,  though  she  did 
not  remember.  But  never  once  had  she 
started  to  drink  without  fuU  knowledge. 

She  stopped  short,  groping  m  her 
thoughts.  Insane  things  like  this  one- 
hiding  the  doll  for  Bebe  from  herself- 
and  tearing  off  the  head  of  a  doll,  and 
sticking  pins  and  stabbing  dolls  without 
knowingly  wanting  to  and  still  less  in- 
tending it.  But  I've  never  taken  a  first 
drink  that  I  didn't  know!  she  thought 
And  for  me  to  take  a  first  drink  is  most 
insane  of  all!  Mayhe.  •  •  •  ,        j 

She     did     not     go     to     the     cupboard. 


All  Around  the  Land 

From  Memphis,  Tennessee: 

MY  BOY  ELVIS 

as  seen  by  Presley's  favorite  teacher 
From  Fort  Wayne,  Indiana: 

HOOSIER  HERB  SHRINER 

as  he  remembers— and  is  remembered 
From  Hollywood,  California: 

THE  LENNON  SISTERS 

as  they  rise  to  fame  on  the  Lawrence 
Welk  shows  .  .  .  and  on  the  cover  of 

March  TV  RADIO  MIRROR 

at  your  favorite  newsstand  February  5 


Triumphantly,  she  washed  her  face  She 
dressed  for  the  street,  her  hands  trembling 
a  little.  She  picked  up  her  handbag— and 
remembered  exactly  when  and  how  she 
had  put  it  down  in  that  exact  place— 
and  went  out,  quite  steadily.  She  got  a 
cab  to  take  her  to  Bebe's  home.  Shed 
explain  gently  to  Bebe  that  there'd  been 
an  accident  to  the  doll,  and  she  was 
sending  it  back  and  getting  another.  She  d 
have  the  other  doll  sent  from  the  store. 
And  then  she'd  ask  Bebe's  mother,  Hester, 
if  she  thought  there  might  not  be  some 
significance  in  the  fact  that  she  always 
remembered  a  first  drink,  but  never 
remembered  other  even  less  rational 
things  which  it  was  evident  she  did  when 
she  hadn't  been  drinking  at  all. 

Cora  pictured  herself  speaking  to  Bebe. 
She'd  say  gently:  "Aunt  Cora's  sorry, 
dear  I'd  have  loved  so  much  to  give  it 
to  you  myself  and  to  see  how  you  liked 
it.  But  it  will  come!" 

She  leaned  back  in  the  cab,  her  eyes 
closed.  She  pictured  Bebe  smiling  up  at 
her  But  she  began  to  have  a  peculiar, 
unreasonable  hope.  Mayhe  there's  some 
explanation,  she  thought.  I  doren't  g-uess 
at  it  myself.  But  I've  only  been  a  failure 
lately.  Recently,  though,  I've  been  acting 
as  if  I  were  mesmerized.  As  if  I  did 
childish,  foolish  things  in  my  sleep— which 
of  course  I  wouldn't  remember.  Exactly 
as  if  I  were  mesmerized.  .  .  . 

The  cab  lurched  and  jolted.  It  came  to 
a    stop.    Cora    opened    her    eyes    as    the 


cab-driver    opened    the    door.    This    was 
Hester's  house,  where  little  Bebe  lived—        j 
though  now   she   was   going   away.   Cora       , 
stepped   out  of  the   cab   and   opened   her 
handbag  to  pay  the  cabman. 

She  went  ashen-white.  She  remenibered,        <, 
distinctly,  putting  her  purse  down  the  day 
before.  She  remembered  what  was  m  it. 
She'd  picked  it  up  from  where  shed  laid       , 
it  down.  Nobody  else  had  touched  it. 
The    cab -driver   said   uneasily: 
"What's  the  matter,  lady?" 
Cora  did  not  answer  him.  She  couldn  t.       i 
She  swayed  on  her  feet  and  fumbled  out     - 
change   to   pay   for  the   ride.   She   looked 
about  her,   blindly.   She   did   not   go   into 
Bebe's     house.     She     walked     unsteadily, 
looking  for  the  only  easement  there  could 
be    for    such    despair    as    filled    her.    She 
looked  for  a  bar. 

But  her  head  was  quite  clear.  Before 
she  found  a  bar,  she  passed  a  trash 
receptacle  on  the  street.  There  were  dis- 
carded newspapers  half-fillmg  it.  Her 
hand  shaking,  she  put  into  it,  and  covered 
over,  the  leg  of  the  doll  she'd  meant  to  give 
Bebe  today.  It  had  been  ripped  from  the 
doll's  body  with  a  sort  of  mamacal  fury. 
It  had  been  in  her  handbag.  ,      ^i. 

Cora  hid  it  and  went  stumbling  for  the 
only  relief  that  existed,  for  her. 

Harry  Lane  leaned  back  in  his  chair  and 
regarded  Marilyn  with  level  eyes  She 
smiled  sarcastically  as  he  watched  her 
while  she  put  the  recently  dictated  letters 

on  his  desk.  ,     ,    <„      i     i  •   .., 

"You  wouldn't,"  she  asked,  "be  looking 
at  me  like  that  because  there's  been  a 
revival  of  your  enormous  affection  tor 
me?  If  you  are,  it's  no  go."       ,       ..^     , 

"No,"  said  Harry  Lane  evenly,  You  re 
quite— sarcastic,  lately.  I  am  wondering  it 
it's  because  of  the  enormous  affection  i 
understand  you  feel  lately  for  someone 
named— ah— Duke  Manson. 

Marilyn  tensed.  Then  she  said  harshly, 
"So    what?     You    wouldn't    care,    would 

you?" 

"No,"  said  Lane  coldly,  "except  in  one 
way.  You've  been  very  useful  to  me, 
Marilyn  You've  been  valuable.  I  intend 
to  reward  you.  But— ah— you  know  a 
great  deal  about  my  affairs.  I  hope  you 
will  not  .  .  .  confide  too  freely  m  this 
Manson."  ,.^,j 

"Is  that  a  threat?"  she  demanded.  Id  • 
hate  to  have  you  threaten  me,  Harry!  1 
might  have  to  take  measures!  Right  now 
I'm  staying  on  here  just  to  get  that 
reward  you  mentioned.  Youve  promised 
plenty.  Don't  fool  yourself  that  you  wont 
have  to  keep  the  promises   youve  made 

me!"  ,,„„      ,     ,  , 

"Do  I  ever  fool  myself?     asked  Lane. 
Marilyn  laughed  suddenly,  without  any 
mirth.  i    v- 

"I  don't  know  anybody  who  fools  him- 
self more!"  she  told  him.  "Look  at  the 
record'  You've  made  a  lot  of  money  at 
other  people's  expense.  Right  now  you 
plan  to  make  a  lot  more-but  your  scheme 
requires  that  you  get  rid  of  your  wite. 
You've  got  a  right  little,  tight  little  plan 
for  it.  Nobody  but  you  would  think  ot 
such  a  thing.  You  made  her  a  drunk,  ex- 
pecting to  get  an  easy  divorce  that  way 
so  you  can  marry  Louise  Griniesley.  But 
she  fights  it  too  hard.  So  youve  started 
something  new.  Now  you're  persuading 
her  she's  insane." 

Harry  Lane  cocked  his  ears  to  listen- 
not  to  her,  but  to  the  sounds  outside  his 
office.  He  leaned  back  at  ease. 

"Interesting,"  he  said  without  expression. 
"You  were  saying.  ..."  „ 

"Hiding  things  until  she  misses  them, 
Marilyn    rushed    on,    "and    then    putting 


them  back  where  she  couldn't  have  missed 
them.  The  business  of  the  dolls.  Pre- 
tending indignation  because  she  tore  off 
the  head  of  the  doll  named  for  Jack- 
when  she  didn't.  You  did.  Raging  that 
she  stuck  pins  in  a  doll  named  for  you. 
You  stuck  them.  Affecting  vast  disgust 
because  she  stabbed  a  doll  representing 
me — did  you  enjoy  stabbing  that  doll, 
Harry?  But  you've  got  her  believing  she 
did  those  things!  You've  bought  a  dupli- 
cate of  the  doll  she  got  for  little  Bebe.  I 
don't  know  how  you'll  use  that,  but  I'll 
bet  it's  nasty!" 

Harry  Lane  continued  to  look  at  her 
steadily. 

"Maybe  you'll  get  away  with  it,"  said 
Marilyn  silkily.  "You  got  away  with  ruin- 
mg  your  brother  and  Martin  Spode,  for 
two.  Maybe  you'll  get  away  with  this. 
But  you're  fooling  yourself." 

"Very  eloquent,"  said  Harry  Lane,  smil- 
ing. "How?" 

"Thinking  you  can  get  away  with  it 
forever,"  said  Marilyn  harshly.  "I'm 
gambling  you  will,  until  after  I'm  paid 
off — and  that  had  better  be  soon — but  I 
want  out  from  being  involved  in  your 
affairs!  You  finish  one  scheme  and  start 
another.  Every  one  is  rotten  and  every 
one  destroys  somebody.  You're  fooling 
yourself  when  you  think  you  can  go  on 
forever!  You're  mesmerized  by  the  idea 
of  scheming  your  way  to  more  and  more 
and  more  money,  and  everything  you 
want.  You'll  never  stop  scheming.  You'll 
keep  it  up  until  you're  caught!  You're 
mesmerized  by  your  own  smartness.  And 
I  think  you're  a  fool!" 

Cora  found  her  way  dizzily  into  her 
room.  She  felt  strong  and  capable  and 
confident.  She  knew  that  she  was  beloved 
and  was  needed,  and  she  muttered  grandly 
to  herself,  making  uncertain  gestures.  She 
could  take  care  of  anything  that  needed 
takmg  care  of!  That  bartender  who  wanted 
her  to  go  home,  he  was  ridic— ridic— ?iic 
—he  was  silly!  And  Harry  was  silly,  look- 
mg  disgusted  when  he  let  her  in  the 
front  door.  Ridic — 

She  made  a  sweeping  gesture,  dismissing 
Harry  and  all  other  matters  which  ordi- 
narily upset  her.  She  felt  wonderfully 
good. 

Then  she  saw  the  box  on  the  floor.  She'd 
dropped  it  there  because  the  doll  for 
Bebe  wasn't  in  it.  The  doll  was  broken. 
There  was  a  leg  torn  off  it. 

But  then  she  saw  the  doll.  It  was  in  the 
box,  just  where  it  should  have  been.  It 
was  not  missing  a  leg.  It  was  quite  perfect, 
with  silken  curls,  and  it  had  dainty 
clothes  that  buttoned  and  unbuttoned  and 
It  would  say  "Ma-ma"  in  a  squeaky 
voice.  .  .  . 

Cora  went  cold  sober  on  the  instant. 
It  was  a  horrible  soberness.  She  remem- 
bered that  the  doll  had  vanished.  That 
she'd  gone  nearly  crazy  because  it  wasn't 
m  its   box.   She   thought   she'd   destroyed 

But  it  had  been  in  the  box  while  she 
thought  the  box  empty.  It  had  been  a 
delusion  that  it  was  gone.  She  was  mes- 
merized. 

She  swayed  on  her  feet,  fighting  the 
shadows  of  madness.  She  wanted  to 
scream.  .  .  . 


IF  youre 

STOUT 
Free 

style  book 


Save  money  on  the  latest 
style  dresses  and  coats,  Sizes 
38  to  60,  proportioned  by 
experts  to  fit  your  figure 
gracefully.  Mail  Coupon  for 
your  116-page  Style  Book.  It's 
FREE  and  jjostpaid  for  you. 


JoTie^Jpryant'NDiA 


DEPT.  3 
ANAPOLIS  17, 
INDIANA 


i  X1&  ' 

'*j&zXr  '  LANE  BRYANT.  Department  3 
,jm^ir-mf  I  Indianapolis  17,  Indiana 

I4I  Please  rusli  FREE  Style  Book  tor  Stout  Women 


I  Address 
I 

I  PosTowi  smr 


Never  a  dull  moment 
when  you're  bright  Dl  nNnk 
Be  a  gay  blonde  charmer — today! 


TURN  "so-so"  hair  glamour- 
bright  and  see  how  exciting 
life  can  be!  With  Marchand's 
Golden  Hair  Wash,  you  can 
lighten  just  a  shade  or  go 
dashing,  dazzling  blonde  — 
safely,  easily  at  home.  Or  add 
sunny  highlights,  gleam  dark 
hair  with  bronze.  Golden  Hair 
Wash,  complete  in  one  pack- 
age, has  been  the  favorite 
home  hair  lightener  for  over 
50  years.  Lightens  arm  and 
leg  hair,  too. 


At  drugstores 
everywhere 
7S«  and  $1.00, 
plus  tax 


MARCHAND'S  GOLDEN  HAIR  WASH 


79 


This  Is  Where  It  All  Began 


(Continued  from  page  34) 
Hal's  future,  was  not  to  unfold  in  Holly- 
wood—where he  made  his  first  "profes- 
sional" appearances  in  a  series  of  obscure 
night  clubs— but  back  on  McAllister  Street, 
at  a  burlesque  house.  Here  the  handsome 
kid,  so  dedicated  to  making  his  share  of 
the  happy  music  in  the  magic  world  of 
entertainment,  was  finally  to  step  onto 
a  real  stage,  in  a  real  auditorium,  as  a 
full-fledged  "straight  man"  and  singer. 

For  eighteen-year-old  Hal  Mendelson, 
Hollywood  had  been  far  from  the  Promised 
Land,  that  first  trip.  There  had  been 
stretches  —  too  many  stretches  —  like  the 
three  days  "I  ate  popcorn  and  drank  water, 
just  to  feel  full."  And  his  innate  pride 
hadn't  helped  relieve  the  situation.  "I 
always  had  a  lot  of  pride.  Too  much— 
maybe,"  Hal  March  was  remembermg  now, 
on  that  triimiphal  homecoming  to  San 
Francisco  just  last  fall.  ... 

Once,  during  those  first  strugglmg 
months,  Hal's  wealthy  aunt  and  uncle 
from  Montreal,  Canada,  had  visited  Los 
Angeles  and  tried  to  be  of  help.  "They 
stayed  at  the  Ambassador  Hotel.  I  was 
living  in  a  rented  room — and  not  a  dime. 
They  invited  me  to  have  lunch  with  them 
and  I  hitchhiked  down  to  the  hotel.  My 
uncle  could  see  I  wasn't  doing  too  weU 
—I  remember  it  was  my  first  good  meal  in 
a  while.  When  I  was  leaving,  he  very 
kindly  put  a  hundred-dollar  bill  in  my 
hand— and  I  gave  it  back  to  him.  My 
family  in  San  Francisco  would  slip  a 
twenty  into  a  letter,  too,  at  first,  but  I 
stopped  that.  I  told  them  I  was  doing  fine 
something  great  was  coming  up — 
tomorrow." 

Tomorrow.  Always  tomorrow.  This  was 
hard  for  Hal's  family  to  understand  in  the 
way  of  a  Uvelihood.  They  would  write 
him,  inquiring  what  was  happening  today. 
And  the  answer,  as  his  sister,  Bessie 
Friedman,  had  recalled,  was  always  what 
was  going  to  happen  "tomorrow"  or  next 
week.  "He  used  to  tell  us  these  stories 
about  what  was  going  to  happen— and  it 
all  sounded  like  pipe  dreams.  But  Hal 
was  never  discouraged." 

But  when  Hal's  father,  Leon  Mendelson, 
the  beloved  philosophical  merchant  of  Mc- 
Allister Street,  died  suddenly  of  a  cere- 
bral hemorrhage,  there  was  some  family 
feeling  that  Hal  should  give  up  all  these 
pipe  dreams  .  .  .  these  mythical  tomorrows. 


His  mother  was  left  with  the  deUcatessen 
business  overnight,  and  Hal  was  the  tin- 
employed  one,  the  unmarried  one — the 
logical  one  to  help  run  the  store. 

But  for  his  mom's  unselfish  and  under- 
standing heart,  Hal's  future  might  have 
ended  before  it  began.  "In  my  heart,  I 
didn't  want  him  to  stay,"  Mrs.  Ethel 
Mendelson,  Hal's  mother,  has  recalled. 
"But  we  had  a  good  business  and  I  didnt 
know   what   to   do.    I   couldn't   take   care 

of  it."  ,       ,  ,    „  , 

And  one  night,  after  the  funeral,  Hal 
had  put  it  to  her  this  way:  "Mom,  I  don't 
want  to  be  a  grocery  man.  When  I  get 
older— when  I  start  to  make  money— 111 
take  care  of  you  like  nobody's  business. 
I'll  take  care  of  you  the  rest  of  your  life 
—but  please  ...  not  this  ..." 

"All  right— you  don't  want  it.  All  right. 
I'll  sell  the  store,"  she  had  said,  freeing 
him  for  the  future  he'd  wanted  since  the 
junior  high  school  operetta  when  he  had 
first  heard  the  laughter  and  the  applause. 
Meanwhile,  however,  Hal  was  inter- 
mittently employed.  But,  as  Hal  well  re- 
membered, "I  got  fired  from  everything 
else."  He  worked  briefly  at  Roos  Broth- 
ers store,  just  next  door  to  Joseph  Mag- 
nin's  store— where  TV  star  Hal  March 
was  later  to  be  making  appearances  and  to 
be  mobbed  by  fans,  while  mikes  on  the 
street  corner  outside  blared  The  ?.b4,yoo 
Question  theme  song.  He'd  worked,  also 
briefly,  for  Bethlehem  Steel  as  a  '  flan- 
ger's  helper,"  repairing   ships. 

But  acting  was  something  else  .  .  .  al- 
ways. "Acting  was  the  one  thing  I  took 
seriously.  I  had  always  been  Charlie 
Charm  until  then.  I  wanted  this  des- 
perately—and that  was  it.  I  knew  I 
couldn't  compromise  with  this  thing.  It 
meant  too  much  to  me.  .  .    " 

So  much  that  Hal  Mendelson,  as  he  was 
saying  now,  finaUy  "lied  my  way  mto 
show  business."  By  sheer  bravado,  he  d 
bluffed  a  fellow  named  Eddie  Skolak,  who 
was  putting  a  new  show  into  the  President 
Burlesque  Theater,  into  hiring  him  as  a 
straight  man.  ...  ,     .  ,,   .n-  x 

So  here— at  the  other  end  of  McAllister 
Street— show  business  opened  up  for 
him.  And  here — now  that  he  was  return- 
ing to  his  home  town  a  star,  being  wel- 
comed with  the  key  to  the  city,  and  rid- 
ing in  a  limousine  with  a  chauffeur  and 
a  police  escort— the  stage  where  he  had 


$1,000.00  REWARD 


80 


...  is  offered  for  information  leading 
to  the  arrest  of  dangerous  "wanted" 
criminals.  Hear  details  about  the 
$1,000.00  reward  on  .  .  . 

TRUE  DETECTIVE  MYSTERIES 

Every    Monday   Evening    on    MUTUAL    Stations 


Mystery  in  California.  TRUE  DETECTIVE  offers  $500  reward 
for  information  leading  to  L  Ewing  Scott  arrest.  Read  "The 
Missing  Body  and  the  Missing  Killer"  in  February  TRUE 
DETECTIVE,  now  at  all  newsstands. 


"come  of  age"  in  show  business  was  full 
of  nostalgic   memories.  ,, 

"Eddie  will  think  he's  being  raided, 
Hal  laughed,  as  the  sirens  ushered  the 
way  Then,  with  the  excitement  of  every 
remembered  landmark:  "There's  Bunny's 
Waffle  Shop!  When  I  worked  here,  I  used 
to  go  across  the  street  to  Bxmny's  with 
the  strippers  and  have  coffee  before  the 
show.  We  did  four  shows  a  day— seven 
on  weekends.  ...  I'm  glad  I  was  in  bur- 
lesque," he's  saying,  as  he  looks  around 
with  avid  interest.  "There's  nothing  else 
like  it  in  show  business.  This  is  the 
greatest  training  ground  for  improvising 
and  for  ad  fibbing— invaluable  for  tele- 
vision today. 

"Let's  go  backstage,"  he  suggests.    And, 
suddenly,  he's  leading  the  way.     Turning 
the    corner    of    the    old    theater,    walking 
down  a  dusty  alley-way  where  he  walked 
fifteen  years  before.     The   door's  locked, 
but  there's  a  bell  marked  "Please  rmg. 
And  he  rings.    From  around  the  building 
there  comes  a  middle-aged  man,  smiling      ^ 
as  he  nears,  "Hello — Hal.'" 
"Eddie?    Eddie  Skolak!" 
And,  together,  they're  walking  through 
the  backstage  entrance  into  the  darkened 
theater  where,  on  December  6,  1941--the 
day    before    Pearl    Harbor— Hal    Mendel- 
son punched   in  with   his   first   job   on   a     j 
professional  show   .   .   .   and   as  it  turned     ( 
out— improvised  as  he  went.     "I'd  oluned 
my  way  into  getting  the  job.    Id  said  Id 
had   a   lot   of  experience— and  the   comic 
taught  me  the  bits  backstage.    The  comic 
was  a  guy  named— Smoky  Wells!     Right, 
Eddie? 

"I  had  to  learn  to  do  all  the  bits  before 
the  first  show!"  Hal  was  laughing  now. 
"Well— you  didn't  do  so  bad,"  his  old 
boss  was  saying.  With  an  experienced 
eye,  Skolak  had  sized  him  up  as  "a  young 
feller  with  plenty  of  spirit.  He  knevv  what 
he  was  doing  and  he  looked  good.  Struck 
me  as  somebody  who  really  wanted  to 
work.  And  he  did.  I'm  glad  to  see  some- 
body like  Hal  go  places." 

Going  backstage  now,  wandering  around 
the  old  deserted  theater  and  finding  his 
way  down  a  dark  musty  hall,  Hal  March 
was  turning  back  the  years  nostalgically. 
"This  was  the  comics'  dressing  room, 
right  here.  And  that  second  one— that 
was  mine!  That  was  the  straight  mans 
dressing  room.  Looks  exactly  the  same, 
Eddie,"  he  was  saying.  Then,  noting  the 
wooden  platform  extending  mto  the 
theater,  "Hey— you  didn't  have  a  run- 
way then!" 

"No,  I  just  put  that  in. 
"The    girls   worked    on   stage   then.     It 
was  too  dangerous  to  go  to  the  audience. 
That  platform  on  the  back  of  the  stage— 
that's  for  the  tableau?" 
"Yeah— that's  for  the  picture. 
"I  was  in  the  first  show,  December  6, 
1941—1   sang   'Mighty   Lak    a    Rose    and 
'Chattanooga    Choo-Choo.'    I     remember 
exactly  where  I  stood,"  Hal  was  saymg, 
heading  for  the  side  of  the  stage.      No- 
body but  the  pit  men  heard  me,  and  no- 
body looked  at  me.    There  was  one  num- 
ber—the big  'Indian  Summer'  production 
number— I'll    never    forget.    We    had    a 
house  full  of  sailors,  and  I  sang  the  num- 
ber with  a  chorus  of  forty  beautiful  girls 
dancing  in  front  of  me.     I  wore  a  beige 
Irish  Linen  jacket  and  a  boutonmere  and 
I  sang  my  heart  out— and  nothing— 
"I  stood  right  here.  ..." 
Their    show    had    a    short    run      Four 
weeks  later,  the  theater  had  closed  down. 
Eddie  Skolak  had  started  out  too  ambi- 
tiously    with     such    spectacular    musical 
productions,    and    he'd    had    to    close    tlie 
show   until   he   could   raise   more   money 


and  convert  it  into  a  routine  "strip"  show. 
And  so,  one  night,  Hal  Mendelson  had 
walked  back  down  the  same  dim  alley- 
way—out of  a  job.  But  walking  with 
confidence.  He  was  in  "show  business" 
now,  for  sure.    A  real  pro. 

He  v/as  soon  to  go  into  the  Army— a 
real  private,  too.  The  most  flat-footed 
private  in  the  service  of  Uncle  Sam.  The 
enlistment  board  had  turned  him  down 
when  they  first  examined  him,  saying, 
"Oh,  brother — with  those  feet  you'll  never 
get  in."  But,  three  months  later,  he  was 
in — and  a  casualty  in  his  company.  In 
a  baseball  game  with  other  G.I.'s,  his 
nose  had  been  broken  for  the  second 
time.  But,  this  time,  "the  other  way" 
from  the  fracture  he'd  sustained  in  a 
high-school  football  game.  As  his  mom 
later  recalled,  "The  Army  straightened  it 
out  for  him." 

Back  home  from  service,  once  more,  it 
was  here  in  San  Francisco  that  Hal  had 
gotten  his  first  break  in  radio.  One  morn- 
ing, he'd  simply  walked  into  Station  KYA, 
looking  for  a  job  as  an  announcer — and 
emerged  employed.  Over  and  above  the 
objections,  ironically  enough,  of  the  chief 
aimouncer,  Bob  Sweeney,  who  was  to 
play  so  important  a  part  in  Hal  Mendel - 
son's  future  later  on. 

By  his  own  admission,  Sweeney  had 
voted  against  him:  "When  Hal  auditioned 
that  day,  he  told  wonderfiol  stories  in 
dialects.  But,  as  I  explained  to  him,  'Un- 
fortunately, we  don't  do  commercials  in 
dialect.'  I  turned  him  down,  but  he'd  im- 
pressed everybody  else  with  his  stories. 
There  was  an  opening  in  the  sales  de- 
partment, and  he  got  that.  Five  minutes 
later,  one  of  the  announcers  quit,  and  Hal 
got  the  job." 

It  was  at  this  time  that  Hal  Mendelson 
changed  his  name,  too.  By  way  of  a 
take-off  on  "Time  Marches  On,"  he  de- 
cided to  call  his  show,  Hal  March  Is  On! 
And  there,  in  the  early  morning,  on  KYA, 
the  germ  of  the  team  to  be  known  as 
"Sweeney  and  March"  was  born.  Sweeney 
had  an  early  disc-jockey  show,  too,  which 
was  "back  to  back"  with  Hal's.  "We  got 
to  the  point  where  we  were  both  doing 
jokes— and  both  in  need  of  a  straight 
man.  We'd  'straight'  for  each  other,  and 
we  felt  so  good  working  together  that  we 
combined  the  show  into  a  full  hour." 

However,  they  didn't  then  actually  con- 
sider themselves  a  team.  And,  a  few 
months  later,  Hal  decided  to  expand  his 
operation  and  go  back  to  Hollywood  to 
try  his  luck  at  acting  again.  His  cousin 
was  casting  director  at  Warner  Bros.,  and 
Hal  figured  he  might  have  a  chance  there. 
Shortly  thereafter.  Bob  Sweeney's  moth- 
er died,  and  Bob  decided  "to  get  out  of 
San  Francisco  and  see  what  I  could  do 
m  Hollywood,  too.  I  had  $280  to  my 
name.  I  got  a  new  suit.  I  bought  new 
luggage  and  bought  myself  a  first-class 
plane  ticket— my  first.  Everything  first- 
class.  I  rode  in  a  limousine  to  the  Holly- 
wood Roosevelt  Hotel.  Hal  was  to  meet 
me  there,  and  I  was  about  to  register  for 
a  room  when  he  walked  in  and  halted  me. 
He  looked  real  beat— and  broke.  He  was 
wearmg  an  old  T-shirt  and  slacks— and  a 
two  days'  growth  of  beard." 

Hal  stopped  Sweeney's  signature  with 
an  emphatic,  "Don't  register  for  a  seven- 
dollar  room!  Move  in  with  me.  The 
money  won't  last,  believe  me."  Taking 
another  look  at  Hal,  Sweeney  decided  he 
knew  what  he  was  talking  about. 

The  weeks  that  followed  strengthened 
that  view:  "Hal  was  Uving  in  a  broken- 
down  attic  in  a  rooming  house  on  Gower 
Street.  We  got  the  attic  for  ten  dollars 
a  week  for  the  two  of  us.  We  weren't 
allowed  to  cook  in  our  room.  There  was 
a  little  stand  down  on  Vine  Street,  and  we 
lived  on  orange  juice  and  hot  dogs  when 
we   were   broke— which   was   often" 


CAN  YOU  SOLVE  THIS 

JIRAMipiniERS 


There  are  three  boxes  in  the  puzzle.  In  each  box  are 
four  letters  that  form  a  word.  We  start  you  off  by  writ- 
ing the  last  letter  of  each  word  in  the  squares  above 
the  boxes.  Can  you  put  the  other  letters  in  the  correct 
squares?  Try  it  and  see.  When  you  have  unscrambled 
the  words,  write  the  three-word  sentence  in  the 
coupon  and  mail  for  FREE  GIFT! 

YOUR  CHANCE  TO  MAKE 
$50 -MOO  AND  MORE! 

We're  running  this  Test  to  find  people  with  active  minds 
who  want  to  make  money.  We  can  show  you  how  easy  it 
is  to  get  spare  time  orders  for  our  Greeting  Card  Box 
Assortments,  Stationery  and  Gift  Items  from  friends, 
neighbors  and  co-workers.  They  are  so  beautiful,  so  dif- 
ferent, so  amazingly  low  in  cost  they  sell  themselves. 


JHIS  DELUXE  $1.25  BOX 

OF  21  BEAUTIFUL 

ALL-OCCASION 

GREETING  CARDS 

IN  3  POPULAR  SIZES! 


Here  are  3  favorite  styles  of 
Artistic  All-Occasion  Greeting 
Cards  in  one  handy  assortment 
for  birthdays,  anniversary,  con- 
gratulations and  other  occa- 
sions. You  would  gladly  pay  15c 
to  25c  for  each.  Yet  all  21  cards 
—with  21  envelopes— are  yours 
FREE  when  you  answer  our 
puzzle.  Solve  and  mail  NOW  ! 


HURRY!  SEND  YOUR  PUZZLE 
SOLUTION  TODAY! 

TPe'Il  send  yoa  a  full  21-card  assortment  | 

of  All-Occasion   Greeting   Cards    (mini-  i 

mum  retail  value  $1.25)  ABSOLUTELY  ' 

FREE  when  you  answer  our  Puzzle.  You  { 

don't  pay  a  single  cent  for  Ihem— now  or  j 

ever.  But  you  must  hurry!  We  reserve  j 

the  right  to  reject  entries  dated  60  days  | 

after  the  month  printed  on  the  cover  of  j 

this  publication.  Mail  answer  today  for  ! 

your  gift  box,  FREE  Stationery  Samples  I 

and  other  assortments  ON  APPROVAL,  j 

Only  one  entry  accepted  from  each  house-  [ 

hold.  Write  to  ARTISTIC  CARD  CO.,  I 

786  Way  St.,  Elmira,  N.  Y.  In  Canada,  I 

vrite  103  Simcoe  St.,  Toronto  1,  Ont.  I 


PASTE  ON  POSTCARD  OR  MAIL  IN  ENVELOPE! 


Puzzle  Editor,  ARTISTIC  CARD  CO.,  fNC. 
786  Way  Street,  Elmira,  New  York 

Here's  my  solution.  Rush  my  FREE  $1.25  Deluxe  box  of 
21  All-Occasion  Greeting  Cards  — also  spare  time  Money- 
Making  Plan,  Free  Stationery  Samples  and  Other  Assort- 
ments On  Approval. 


HERE  IS  MY 

THREE-WORD 

SENTENCE: 


1st  WORD 


2nd  WORD 


3rd  WORD 


Name- 


Address- 


(Please  Print) 


-State- 


City-  

ORGANIZATIONS!   Ask   for   tested   Fund-Raising   Plan 
that  has  helped  thousands  of  church  groups,  clubs,  lodges. 


schools  and  community  associations  raise  money.     P~| 


Check  here 


FREE!  Art  Talent  Test 


Find  out,  free,  if  you  have  talent 
that  could  be  trained  for  a  career 
in  advertising  art  or  illustrating. 
Take  this  simple  Art  Talent  Test 
at  home  in  spare  time.  Test  was 
developed  by  professional  artists 
to  uncover  new  talent.  Mail  cou- 
pon today  for  free  Talent  Test. 


r, 


ART  INSTRUCTION,  INC.,  STUDIO  1397 
500  South  4th  Street,  Minneapolis  15,  Minnesota 
Please  send  me  your  Talent  Test,  without 
cost  or  obligation.  (PLEASE  PRINT) 

Name — AGE 

Address^ 
Cify_ 


Counfy- 


-Phone- 
-Stofe- 


—Zone. 

Occupof/on. 


81 


months  off 


Save  $1.50  Under 
Newsstand  Prices 


I Mail  This  Coupon  Today j 

TV  RADIO   MIRROR,  TV  2-57 

205  East  42  St.,  N.Y.  17,  N.  Y. 

Yes!   Enter  my  bargain  siibscriplion  at  once. 
D  Send   me   16   months  of  TV    Rmlio   Mirror 

for  $3.    *2  extra  issues  if  >oii  send  payment 

with  order. 
*n  I  enclose  ?3  as  payment  in  full.  D  Bill  me. 


(Please  Print) 


Name 

Address 

City Zone.  .  .Stale. 


82 


She0ot^400«" 

for  a  Half  Dollar 


Wufill  pay  CAS  H  for\ 

tOlD  COINS.  Bias  gW  STAMPS 

I  POSTYOURSELF!  It  pays!, 

I I  paid  $400.00  to  Mrs.  Dowtyra 
\  ofTexas,  forone  Half  Dollar:  " 

.  J  J.D.MartinofVirginia $200.00, 
_-    '  for  a  single  Copper  Cent.  Mr. 
'      Manningof  New  York,  $2,500.00  for  ps^ 
^^■Sii^'    oneSilver Dollar.  Mrs.G.F.  Adam3.0hlo,\S2!!, 
reeeived$740.00forafewoldcoin9  Iwill  paybigpneea  /4«^,^ 
for  all  kinds  of  old  coins,  medals,  bills  and  stamps.         V&g;/ 
I  WILL  PAY  $100.00  FOR  A  DIME!         1^ 

1894^  Wn!r$5p.OO  for  l^U  Libert.  H..dNi.J;eU 

"?geTi&at°ed  Coin  Folder  .1>S  further  part.calT,.  It  "«?    t|!|j 

(Lareeat  Rare  Coin  Establishment  id  U.  a.) 


Theirs  was  about  as  "broken-down"  as 
attics  come,  actually.  "The  springs  in  the 
chairs  kept  popping  out.  There  was  an 
old,  lumpy  double  bed.  The  wallpaper 
was  peeling  off  the  walls,  and  we  had 
some  mothy  gauze  curtains — for  a  while." 

One  morning,  the  landlady  came  up  to 
their  attic  and  began  extemporizing  about 
what  model  tenants  they  were.  "No  drink- 
ing, no  girls  and  so  forth,"  Sweeney  had 
recalled,  talking  about  the  old  days.  "She 
said  we  were  such  good  tenants  she  would 
wash  our  curtains  for  us.  "We  were  so 
excited.  This  was  like  somebody  offer- 
ing to  paint  the  room,  or  something.  We 
went  downstairs  with  her  to  watch.  She 
put  our  soiled  curtains  in  the  sink,  put 
some  detergent  in,  turned  on  the  hot 
water — and  they  melted  and  went  down 
the  drain.  While  we  stood  there  watch- 
ing, they  simply  dissolved  and  went  right 
down  the  hole.  The  landlady  said  she  was 
so  sorry,  but  there  were  no  more  curtains. 
From  then  on,  we  started  getting  up 
earlier.  The  sunlight  would  come  pour- 
ing in,  and  we'd  have  to  get  up  early 
to  get  out  of  the  heat  and  the  sun." 

Any  bookkeeping  between  them  was 
very  soon  simplified.  Jobs  were  too  few 
and  too  far  between.  Hal  hadn't  con- 
nected in  motion  pictures.  His  cousin  at 
Warner  Bros,  said  he  must  have  "more 
experience."  Sweeney  and  March  started 
pooling  their  money.  "If  one  worked, 
the  other  got  half  the  check.  We  would 
put  money  in  a  dresser  drawer  and  take 
out  what  we  needed.  When  the  money 
was  gone — -it  was  just  gone." 

1  here  was  a  Maritime  Service  radio 
program  which  was  good  for  starving  ac- 
tors then.  "Once  in  a  while,  we'd  get  on 
that.  The  Merchant  Marine  had  taken 
over  Catalina  Island,  and  the  show  was 
broadcast  from  the  ballroom  of  a  big 
hotel  there.  We'd  leave  Hollywood  on  a 
Friday  night,  get  a  nice  boat-ride  over, 
spend  some  time  on  the  island,  do  the 
show  Saturday  night,  and  go  home  Sun- 
day. We'd  save  ourselves  four  meals — 
and  get  a  check  for  $35  apiece  besides." 

During  these  earlier  days,  Hal's  family 
would  turn  a  radio  dial  in  San  Francisco, 
and  out  of  nowhere  would  come  a  re- 
membered voice — one  of  many  remem- 
bered voices.  "That's  Hal!"  they'd  say 
excitedly,  recognizing  some  dialect  or  ac- 
cent borrowed  and  bred  in  their  delica- 
tessen store  on  McAllister  Street. 

Radio  networks,  however,  weren't  as 
impressed.  "We  kept  trying  to  figure 
out  how  we  could  lick  it,"  Sweeney  has 
said  of  these  days.  "Others  were  doing 
auditions,  making  records  and  going 
around  Hollywood  with  their  records 
under  their  arms." 

One  day,  Hal  and  Bob  were  sitting  on 
a  little  ledge  outside  Station  KHJ  on 
Melrose  Avenue  "patting  each  other  on 
the  back  and  saying  what  a  shame  we 
didn't  have  our  own  show  and  how  great 
we  would  be."  A  station  executive  over- 
heard them  and  invited,  "If  you  think 
you're  so  great,  come  on  inside  and  let's 
talk  about  it."  As  a  result,  the  boys 
rushed,  back  to  their  sunny  attic,  wrote 
themselves  a  spot  and  recorded  it.  "This 
guy  didn't  go  for  it — but  CBS  did.  Our 
Sweeney  And  March  show  was  on  CBS 
for  eighty-seven  weeks — the  longest  sus- 
staining  show  on  the  air." 

Later,  after  Sweeney  and  March  went 
to  New  York  and  filled  an  ABC  contract, 
they  decided  to  go  it  alone  and  not  wait 
for  the  magic  tomorrow  that  was  going 
to  make  their  future  secure  as  a  team. 
"Tomorrow's  the  thing  that  keeps  you 
going.  Tomorrow,  there's  going  to  be  a 
big  part.  A  great  show — tomorrow.  We 
decided  this  was  it.  We  had  enough 
money   to   sustain   ourselves  for   a  while, 


and  we  decided  we'd  break  it  off  and  each 
try  our  luck  doing  what  we  wanted  to  do."    , 
Tomorrow  .  .  .  Sweeney  would  be  fea-    . 
tured  in  top  TV  shows  and  eventually  be 
starring  in  his  own  show,   The  Brothers, 
on  CBS-TV.  ...  f 

And  tomorrow  .  .  .  after  being  featured  , 
on  such  programs  as  Colgate  Comedy 
Hour  and  the  Imogene  Coca  Show,  and  ,- 
starting  his  own  The  Soldiers  .  .  .  Hal  j 
March  would  be  offered  the  job  emceeing  ; 
a  summer-replacement  show,  a  fabulous-  ; 
sounding  format  called  The  $64,000  Ques- 
tion. 

Hal  and  his  old  partner  talked  this  over,  ■ 
when    that   tomorrow   came.      The    whole  \ 
premise   just   seemed   too   fantastic   to   be  - 
true— going  from  $64  to  $64,000.   "It  would 
be  gt-eat  if  they  can  do  it,"  Hal  had  said  { 
doubtfully.      And    Sweeney    had    pointed 
out,  "What  can  you  lose,  Hal?     After  all, 
it  isn't  your  $64,000." 

But  Hal   had   turned   it   down,   at   first.  ; 
"Can    you   imagine   that!"   he   was   saying 
now,  riding  up  Nob  Hill  in  a  limousine, 
with  sirens  going  all  the  way.    "But  I  just  . 
didn't  think  I  was  right  for  it.     I  was  an  * 
actor — and    they'd    never    used    an    actor 
as    an    emcee.      The    emcee    has    all    the 
responsibility  for  pacing  the  whole  show. 
Professionally,  this  was  a  real  change  of  ■ 
pace  for  me.     But  we  made  a  kinescope 
and    they    signed    me — and    that    was    a 
dandy  day!" 

For  Hal  Mendelson,  this  proved  to  be 
the  pot  of  gold  at  the  end  of  McAllister  , 
Street.     And  as  for  pacing  the  show — life 
had  set  that  pace  long  before. 

As  his  old  partner  has  said,  "There's  a 
thing  in  show  business  that's  just  the 
right  framework  for  your  talent.  The 
perfect  niche  for  you.  Sometimes,  you 
never  find  it.    Hal  found  his." 

In  Hal  March,  television  audiences 
found  a  different  kind  of  emcee.  Not  only  ; 
an  actor  who  could  project,  but  a  fellow  j 
man  who  was  solidly  sympathetic — he'd 
been  there.  "I  can't  disassociate  myself 
from  these  people,"  Hal  has  said  about 
his  pulling  for  the  contestants  on  his  show. 
"You  can't — knowing  they're  up  there  try- 
ing to  change  their  whole  lives.  And 
knowing  that  the  money — any  part  of  it — 
can  change  their  lives.  .  .  ." 

How  much  a  man's  life  can  change, 
Hal  March  would  know.  After  all  the 
years  of  struggle  he  was  all  the  way  home 
when  he  returned  to  San  Francisco  in 
such  triumph.  He  was  making  happy 
music — in  spades.  He'd  found  the  perfect 
niche  in  show  business.  He  was  the  star 
of  the  most  successful  show  in  television. 
And,  as  though  fate  decided  to  reward 
him  all  the  way,  he  had  found  the  perfect 
bride  in  glamorous,  titian-haired  Candy 
Toxton,  whose  background  for  acting  and 
for  living  in  so  many  ways  matches  his. 

"We've  both  kept  the  same  sense  of 
values — that's  the  important  thing,"  Hal 
was  saying  now,  with  a  look  in  Candy's 
direction  which  was  saying  infinitely 
more.  "Candy's  the  greatest.  I  waited  a 
good  many  years  to  get  married — she's 
the  girl  I  was  always  waiting  for.  We've 
had  this  in  common,  too — fighting  and 
striving  to  succeed,  and  wanting  to  do 
it  on  our  own." 

"You'll  be  back — you'll  see,"  some  of  | 
the  skeptics  had  said  eighteen  years  be- 
fore, when  Hal  Mendelson  had  first  left 
San  Francisco  to  try  his  luck  in  show 
business.  Now  he  was  back  ...  a  star  and 
an  undisputed  success  .  .  .  and  finding 
the    whole    experience    pretty    staggering. 

"You  read  of  things  like  this  happening 
to  other  people,"  Hal  was  saying,  "but 
when  it  happens  to  you — it's  like  a  dream. 
Like  it's  all  happening  to  somebody  else. 
Just  fantastic." 

Fantastic  ...  for  Hal  Mendelson  to  bei 


met  at  the  airport  by  the  mayor.  To  be 
given  the  golden  key  to  the  city.  To  be 
feted  at  an  elegant  reception  in  the  Hunt 
Room  of  the  Fairmont  Hotel.  To  be  fol- 
lowed in  Union  Square  by  people  who 
just  wanted  his  name  on  a  piece  of  paper. 
To  be  riding  in  a  limousine  with  a  chauf- 
feur up  and  down  Nob  Hill. 

Today,  he  was  all  the  way  home.  And 
the  answers,  his  answers,  were  here,  too. 
The  answers  to  his  phenomenal  success, 
to  why  millions  of  television  fans  could 
identi^  themselves  with  him,  and  to  why 
no  other  quizmaster,  however  fabulous 
the  prizes,  could  come  so  close  to  them. 
The  answer  was  the  people  who  leaned 
out  of  cable  cars  along  Powell  Street  with 
a  warm  hello  for  him.  Two  sailors  who 
stopped  him,  grinning,  "Got  any  money, 
Hal?"  The  cabbie  who  cruised  by,  cran- 
ing his  neck  and  yelling,  "Welcome  home, 
Hal." 

Tlieir  welcome  was  for  a  man  they  felt 
they  knew  very  well.  A  man  who  would 
be  concerned  about  the  future  of  a  jockey 
and  a  Brooklyn  spinster  and  an  Italian 
shoemaker.  Who  would  know  what  win- 
ning would  mean  to  them. 

As  his  boyhood  friend,  Sam  Elkind,  has 
put  it,  "The  slick  emcees  may  gloss  it 
on,  but  when  Hal  says  he's  happy  for 
them — ^he's  happy  for  them.  He  knows 
what  it  means  to  them.  The  guys  who 
bought  Hal  probably  didn't  know  what 
they  had  when  they  first  hired  him — this 
tremendous  sincerity  of  his,  the  empaliiy. 
Ifs  like  a  mosaic  of  Hal  and  his  life, 
everything  that  comes  through  that 
screen.  There's  a  line  that  comes  to  mind, 
'the  elements  so  mixed  in  him  .  .  .  this 
was  a  man.' " 
The  elements  so  mixed  in  him.  ... 
Today's  success  was  all  of  them.  The 
Mission  District  and  McAllister  Street. 
The  junior  high  school  play  and  the  Presi- 
dent "Follies  Burlesque"  .  .  .  and  follow- 
ing the  happy  music  wherever  he  could. 
A  mother's  unselfishness  and  a  father's 
compassion  .  .  .  and  the  respect  for  truth 
and  sincerity  which  had  been  steeped 
in  him.  Those  who  had  doubted  and 
those  who  had  believed,  the  pat  on  the 
back  and  the  knife  to  the  heart.  A  kid's 
dedication  to  a  dream  .  .  .  and  all  those 
whose  lives  had  touched  his  through  the 
struggle  to  make  it  reality. 

But  back  here,  where  it  all  began,  to 
Hal  March  reality  now  seemed  the  dream. 
Here  in  the  elegant  hotel  suite,  with  its 
mauve  and  green  decor,  he  was  saying, 
"When  I  was  a  kid,  some  of  my  rich  school 
friends  used  to  come  to  the  Fairmont.  I 
remember  I  would  come  by  here  and  I'd 
tell  myself,  'Someday,  I'll  go  in  there.' 
The  whole  thing's  fantastic — when  you 
remember  these  things." 

It  was  almost  plane  time.  In  another 
hour,  Hal  March  would  be  winging  back 
to  the  theater  of  his  success,  but  the  stage 
was  here,  and  the  roots  were  all  here. 
And,  through  the  glass  wall  of  his  suite 
atop  Nob  Hill,  it  was  all  there  below  him 
now  ...  all  the  struggle  and  the  streets 
and  the  people  who  were  part  of  him. 
"That's  my  life  down  there  where  we've 
been.  Everything  that's  happened  since 
seems  like  a  dream.  Like  it  doesn't  be- 
long to  me.  .  .  . 

"Can  you  imagine  what  it's  like  for  me 
to  come  back  here  like  this?"  Hal  March 
was  saying  slowly  now.  "To  be  wel- 
comed by  the  mayor,  to  be  given  the  key 
to  the  city  .  .  .  that  banner — there's  never 
been  another  one  like  that  over  the  City 
Hall.  When  I  think  of  what's  happened 
to  me  today  in  show  business  .  .  .  when 
I'm  alone,  I  look  up  and  say,  'Don't  let  it 
stop.  Big  Fellow  .  .  .  don't  let  it  all 
stop.  .  .  .'" 

Today,  there  was  no  indication  that  it 
'  ever  would. 


AN  EASY  WAY  TO  GET 

AT  NO  COST! 


WORTH 


WEARING  APPAREL 

HOUSEHOLD  GOODS 

APPLIANCES 


Over  500,000  women  have  received  Housewares, 
Furnishings  for  their  homes  and  Wearing  Apparel 
this  eosy  way  —  without  money!  You  select  $72 
worth  of  onything  you  want  from  our  Catalog  show- 
ing hundreds  of  well-known  "Name-brand"  products 
as  0  reward  for  introducing  a  few  friends  or  relatives 
to  the  famous  SIGNET  CLUB  PLAN.  You  help  them, 
because  they  get  FREE  a  choice  of  o  $3  Premium  with 
every  $12  order  from  our  Cotalog  and  pay  no  shipping 
charges.  It's  really  easy,  no  experience  necessory. 
Send  coupon  todoy  for  new  1957  Catalog. 

NO  OBLIGATION  —  ACT  NOW 


MAIL  THIS 
COUPON 
TODAY 


Dept.  C-68 


SIGNET  CLUB  PLAN  Est.  1925 

265  Third  St.,  Cambridge  42,  Mass. 
Please  send  me  your  beautiful  1957  catalog  FREE,  together  with  full 
information  on  how  I  can  easily  get  $72  (or  more)  worth  of  nationally- 
famous  merchandise,   without  cost. 


NAME.. 


I      STREET  AND  NO. 


I 


TOWN ZONE STATE.. 

We  serve  East  of  Mississippi  River  only. 


OF  A  MILLION 


WOMEN... 


U^ 


$050 


'ayt^/' 


SYRINGE  FOR     'OMEN 


FREE  BOOKLETi  MARVa  Co.,  132TW  taa  St.,  Now  Hovoo.  Conn. 


.AfaJkJtBaiiA 


TAIL- Occasion  GREETING  CARDS 


Make  extra  money  12  months  of  the  year. 
Show  the  newest  in  truly  different  greet- 
ing: cards  and  gifts.    Over  150  money- 
makers for  every  taste  and  every  event:  Sta- 
dio  Designs,  Color  Photo  Cards,  Comics,  Reli- 
gious Cards,  dozens  of  novel  Gift  Items— every- 
thingthat's  new,  fastest  selling,  most  profit- 
able foryoa!  Noexperience  needed.  Keepup 
to  60c  profit  per  box  plus  Cash  Bonus. 

See  Samples  At  No  Cost! 

Send  no  money.  Just  mail  the  coupon  to  get  sample  outfit  on 
I  approval  and  Personal  Stationery  samples  free. 
[Dec    New  "MIXER"  Salt  &  Pepper  Set  given  FREE 
FMIKK     as  reward  for  promptness.  Send  coupon  NOW! 

CARDINALTRAFTSMENTDeptTR-Ts""! 
1400  State  Ave,,  Cincinnati  14,  Ohio        | 

I    Please  send  sample  outfit  on  approval  with    I 
-    W.26  Gift  FREE  for  promptness.  [ 

Name ! 


High  School  Course 

at  Home 


Many  Finish  in  2  Years 

If  you  did  not  or  cannot  finish  high  school,  here  is 
your  opportunity.  Study  in  spare  time  at  home.  Go 
as  rapidly  as  your  time  and  abilities  permit.  Course 
equivalent  to  residential  schooI^ — prepares  for  college 
exams.  Standard  texts  supplied.  Credit  for  subjects 
already  completed.  Single  subjects  if  desired.  Diploma 
awarded.  Be  a  High  School  graduate.  Start  studies 
now.  Free  Bulletin.  Write  today. 

AMERICAN  SCHOOL,  Dept.  H-253 

Drexel  at  58th,  Chicago  37,  Illinois 


City 


WASH 

HAIR  SHADES 

LIGHTER-SAFELY  

Bring  Out  Shining  Radiant  Color! 

Made  specialty  for  blondes,  this  nev*  M-minute  home  lotion 
shampoo— mode  fresh  as  you  need  it— helps  keep  light  hair 
from  darkening— brightens  faded  hair.  Called  Blondex,  if 
quickly  makes  o  rich  cleansing  lather.  Instantly  removes  the  1 

dingy  dust  laden  film  that  makes  blonde  hair  dark,  old-look-  V 

Ing.  Blondex  alone  contains  miracle  ANDIUM,  to  shine  and  i 

lighten  as  it  shampoos.  Gives  hair  attractive  lustre  and  high- 
lights. Gentle  and  safe  for  children's  hair.  Get  BLONDEX 
today!  At  10«,  drug  and  department  store*. 

83 


4  Fashion  Catalogs 


Tor 


HALF  SIZES 
16V2  to26V2 


Sizes  38  to  52 


Enjoy  new 

youthful  fashions 

especially  designed 

to  fit  and  flatter  you 

FREE:     Save    Moneyl     4 
glamorous  fashion  catalogs 
a    year.    Look    sizes    slim- 
mer, feel  years  younger. 
See  the   smartest    new 
dresses,     sportswear, 
i    suits,    coats,    corsets, 
TO— ^4**    bras,     underwear    and 
<wl|i    shoes.  Wonderful  val- 
>^*  -  s   ues  guaranteed  to  fit 
^    beautifully. 

.  Dress  pictured  only  $3.98 

Send  For  FREE  Fashion  Book  Today 

FIFTH  AVENUE  at  39th  St^ 
Dept.  TV-45  N.Y.  18,  N.Y.J 
RUSH  me  new  FREE  Catalog | 


The  Shining  Hours 


State  . 


Xew  1957  Sparkles 

EXQUISITE 
BEAUTIES 

All  Occasion  Assortment 


and     I 

Guidel 


Make  $50,  $7S,  $100  Extra  Money 

Start  a  GREETING  CARD 
^  &  GIFT  SHOP  at  home 

Show  friends  amazingr  value,  New 
Stvle  ereetiner  cards.  Take  easy 
orders  for  lovely  all  occasion  box 
assortments,  gift  wrappings,  nov- 
elties. Sensational  offer.  Profits 
to  100^0.  Bonus.  No  experience 
needed.  Write  today  for  FREE 
TRIAL  Outfit  of  Feature  boxes 
on  approval.  FREE  Samples  Per- 
sonal Stationery  and  all  details. 
NEW  ENGLAND  ART  PUBLISHERS 
North  Abington    221,     Mass. 


^^ 


ENLARGEMENT 

o/youf  7-ai/offfe  Phofo 


FROM   FAMOUS   HOLLYWOOD  FILM  STUDIOS 

Just  to  get  acquainted,  we  will 
make  you  a  beautiful  studio  qual- 
ity 5  x  7  enlargement  of  any  snap- 
shot, photo  or  negative.  Be  sure 
to  include  color  of  hair,  eyes  and 
clothing,  and  get  our  Bargain 
Offer  for  having  your  enlarge- 
ment beautifully  hand-colored  in 
oil  and  mounted  in  a  handsome  frame.  Limit  2 
to  a  customer.  Please  enclose  10(f  to  cover  cost  of 
handling  and  mailing  each  enlargement.  Original 
returned.  We  mil  pay  $100.00  for  children's  or 
adults  pictures  wsed  in  onf  advertising.  Act  NOW! 

HOLLYWOOD  FILM  STUDIOS,  Dept.  F-318 

7021   Santo   Monica   Blvd..   Hollywood   38,   Calif. 


84 


TENSE  NERVOUS 
HEADACHES 

call  for 

STRONGER  Yet  SAFER 

ANACIH 

Won't  Upset  The  Stomach      ^ 

Anacin®  not  only  gives  stronger,  faster 
relief  from  pain  of  headache,  but  is  also 
safer.  Won't  upset  the  stomach  and  has 
no  bad  effects.  You  see,  Anacin  is  like  a 
doctor's  prescription.  That  is,  Anacin  con- 
tains not  just  one  but  a  combination  of 
medically  proven,  active  ingredients.  Sci- 
entific research  has  proved  no  single  drug 
can  give  such  strong  yet  such  safe  relief 
as  Anacin.  Buy  Anacin  Tablets  today! 


(Continued  from  page  56) 
for,  merely  to  cart  away.  By  taking  off 
the  top  and  replacing  it  with  a  flat,  leath- 
er-covered surface  fastened  with  nail- 
heads,  and  refinishing  the  rest  of  the 
wood,  Durward  turned  the  hitherto-des- 
pised piece  into  a  stunning  desk  which  he 
uses  daily. 

Up  in  the  country,  too,  his  idea  of  re- 
laxing is  to  be  a  log-splitter,  brush-clearer, 
builder-artisan-farmer  type,  with  a  list 
of  chores  as  long  as  his  arm.  Which  is  long 
enough,  considering  he's  a  strongly  built 
six-footer  with  arms  and  hands  to  match. 
These  same  hands  can  play  a  Hammond 
chord  organ  as  if  they  had  never  done 
anything  more  strenuous,  or  less  cul- 
tural, and  he  will  concertize  by  the  hour 
when  the  mood  is  upon  him— if  the  boys 
and  Pax  run  out  of  things  only  Daddy  can 
do,  which  need  doing  at  once. 

This  works  the  other  way  'round,  of 
course.  Pax  says  that,  all  too  often, 
Durward  gets  to  planning  her  day  be- 
fore he  leaves  for  the  show,  and  manlike, 
sees  nothing  incongruous  in  asking  her 
to  buy  something  for  him  at  one  end  of 
town  when  all  her  other  errands  are  at 
the  extreme  opposite  end. 

"I  spend  my  time  going  to  and  from 
the  railroad  station,"  she  explains,  "and 
taking  children  back  and  forth  to  schools, 
and  running  into  town  to  shop  and  to  do 
the  dozens  of  errands  every  family  leaves 
to  'Mother.'  If  I  had  a  daughter,  I  think 
I  would  teach  her,  first,  to  be  the  best 
possible  driver— and,  after  that,  to  cook 
and  sew  and  keep  house." 

In  addition  to  the  family  chauffeuring, 
Pax  is  a  Class  Mother  at  the  local  high 
school,  where  Randy  is  a  freshman.  She 
is  taking  an  adult  education  course  in 
art,  with  emphasis  on  oil  painting,  al- 
though heretofore  she  concentrated  on 
ceramics.  She  has  substituted  needlepoint 
for  the  hooked  rugs  she  used  to  make, 
needlepoint  being  easier  to  pick  up  and 
put  down  between  interruptions. 

As  if  these  weren't  enough — what  with 
the  housekeeping,  and  such  things  as  go- 
ing bowling  occasionally  with  Randy,  and 
keeping  Dennis  occupied,  and  the  busy 
weekends  in  the  country — Pax  is  now 
planning  a  children's  theater  in  their 
home  community  to  help  kids  express 
themselves  in  a  constructive  way  by 
acting,  making  their  own  scenery,  and 
producing  suitable  plays.  She  is  also 
working  on  her  script  for  a  professional 
television  show  which  she  hopes  to  see 
produced  some  day.  As  Mary  Paxton 
Young  (from  which  comes  the  nickname, 
"Pax,"  to  differentiate  her  from  a  ntmi- 
ber  of  other  Marys  in  the  family),  Pax 
was  a  successful  radio  singer  and  com- 
mentator, and  later  a  radio  executive  in 
an  advertising  agency.  Some  of  this  hap- 
pened before  she  and  Durward  were 
married  on  June  7,  1941,  and  then  con- 
tinued during  his  years  in  the  Navy,  imtil 
her  job  as  homemaker  and  mother  be- 
came most  important  of  all. 

Randy,  who  was  fourteen  in  December, 
is  at  the  point  where  he  shows  many 
talents.  He  still  hankers  to  be  a  per- 
former, Uke  his  father,  especially  a 
comedian. 

Even  at  fourteen,  however.  Randy  is 
aware  that  an  actor  must  have  many 
facets,  and  that  a  second  profession  might 
come  in  handy.  He  thinks  he  might  like 
to  study  law,  figuring  the  education  won't 
be  wasted  if  he  goes  into  show  business. 
"That  way  I  could  draw  up  my  own 
contracts,"  he  points  out,  far-sightedly. 
He  is  learning  to  dance,  he  plays  the 
trumpet,  he  likes  parties  and  the  social 
life  of  their  community,  but  he  is  just 
as    keenly    interested    in    being    a    good 


ball  player  and  in  belonging  to  a  really 
good  youthful  team  up  in  Connecticut.  He 
has  learned  water-skiing,  is  a  good  all- 
'round    winter    sportsman    on    skis    and      | 
skates,  a  swimmer  and  a  fellow  who  can    ;  ] 
handle    a   boat   with   skill    and    responsi-     ' 
bility— he  and  his  pal,  Doug  Sinclair,  take   j 
Randy's  boat  out  on  their  lake  all  sum-    ' 
mer. 

Dennis,  seven  last  June  11,  was  heard  to 
complain,  a  while  back,  that  he  guessed  : 
he  was  getting  "a  kicking  around  lately."  | 
It  seems  there  was  a  little  matter  of 
some  extra  work  to  do  at  home,  as  the 
result  of  being  tempted  to  talk  during 
church  service — and  then,  as  a  result  of 
the  extra  chores,  falling  behind  in  his 
school  homework  and  having  to  make  up 
for  that.  Quite  a  lot  to  happen  to  a  small 
boy!  But,  mostly,  Dennis  is  a  thoroughly 
responsible,  conservative,  yet  sunny  child 
who  likes  to  work  with  his  daddy  on 
shop  projects  and  follow  him  around  and 
try  to  help  with  everything. 

Dennis  is  the  animal-lover  of  the 
family,  and  he  shares  the  family  love  of 
music.  "We  get  a  kick  out  of  hearing  him 
go  around  the  house,  humming  bits  of 
the  classics  instead  of  the  jazz  or  rock 
'n'  roll  you  might  expect,"  Durward  says, 
adding,  "Dennis  is  also  the  Bright-Eyes. 
Whenever  anyone  loses  anything  and  it 
later  turns  up,  credit  Dennis.  Randy  lost 
his  wallet  last  fall  and,  when  everyone 
else  was  ready  to  give  up,  Dennis  found 
it  under  a  pile  of  leaves." 

Being  the  only  woman  in  a  family  of 
three  men  has  taught  Pax  plenty,  any- 
how. When  she  and  Durward  were  first 
married,  and  went  fishing  together,  he 
told  her  she  would  have  to  learn  to  bait 
her  own  line  and  take  off  her  own  catch. 
And  he  meant  it.  Now  they  use  mostly 
artificial  lures,  but  she  still  has  to  separate  , 
the  fish  from  the  hook.  ► 

Durward    has    many    television    off ers  j 
every  season  which  he  can't  possibly  take, ' 
sometimes  because  there  is  a  time  conflict 
between  them  and  his  present  shows,  oc- 
casionally    because     there     are     sponsor 
conflicts,    most    frequently    because    they 
would    take   him    away    from    the    family 
too  many  hours,  particularly  in  the  eve- 
nings. He  has  also  had  to   turn   down   a  j 
couple    of    offers    of    leads    in    Broadway, 
plays — either  one  of  which  he  longed  to* 
do— but    hopes    that    someday    the    right 
movie    will     come    along,     because     that, 
would  mean  only  a  short  leave  of  absence! 
from  his  other  shows  and  from  home.     ] 
His  real  flair,  of  course,  is  for  comedy. 
The  kind  that  calls  for  a  keen  sense  of 
the    ridiculous,    somewhat    following    the 
pattern     of    characters    he    has     already  ' 
created  for  the  Garry  Moore  Show.  Such 
as  "Jennie,"  who  is  one  of  two  small-town| 
gossips— the  other,  "Martha,"  being  played! 
by  Garry.  Or  "Joe  Dribble,"  a  happy,  un-' 
inhibited  guy,  sort  of  loose- jointed,  with 
dangling    arms    and    hands*    dressed    ii^ 
ridiculous  knickers  and  a  crazy  cap   and; 
wearing  thick  glasses  from  behind  which 
he  peers  at  people  on  whom  he  later  plans 
to   play   some   practical  joke.   Or   "Mayor 
Quagmire,"  a  blustering  old-time  politician 
type,  who  is  constantly  talking  about  hoAM 
fat  his  wife  is.  This  character  particularly! 
amuses  Pax,  because  people  seem  to  con- 
fuse the  fictitious  wife  of  Mayor  Quagmire 
with  the  real  wife  of  Durward.  "Don't  you 
mind,"   they    ask   her,    "when   your   hus-J 
band,  as  Quagmire,  says  right  out  on  th^ 
program  that  you're  getting  fat?" 

As  a  matter  of  record.  Pax  has  a  lovely 
figure,  and  no  husband  in  his  right  mind 
would  complain  about  it— not  even  a 
Quagmire.  She  is  five-foot-five,  has  hazel 
eyes  and  long  chestnut  hair,  which  Dur- 
ward doesn't  want  her  to  cut,  even  when 


she  worries  about  how  long  it  can  get 
before  she  resorts  to  the  scissors. 

All  the  Kirbys  are  dyed-in-the-wool 
and  bred-in-the-bone  antique  hunters  who 
can  hardly  bear  to  turn  away  from  an 
auction  sign  or  an  antique  dealer's  window. 

Pax  was  helping  a  friend  select  furni- 
ture for  a  summer  place  when  she  saw  a 
Queen  Anne  lowboy,  darkly  varnished, 
with  cheap  new  hardware,  but  looking 
suspiciously  like  a  fine  old  piece.  She 
phoned  Durward.  "It  may  be  a  buy,"  she 
said.  "I  can't  tell  until  I  get  it  home  and 
look  at  it.  And  it's  only  twenty-eight 
dollars." 

It  turned  out,  on  more  careful  examina- 
tion, to  be  a  hand-made  piece  which,  after 
they  restored  it  and  substituted  suitable 
hardware,  has  a  value  at  around  $900. 

Though  Durward  and  Pax  first  met  in  a 
radio  station  for  which  they  both  worked, 
in  Cincinnati,  Ohio,  they  had  actually  been 
brought  up  within  a  few  blocks  of  each 
other  in  Indianapolis.  Durward  was  born 
in  Covington,  Kentucky,  but  his  family 
had  moved  to  Indianapolis  when  he  was 
twelve  or  thirteen.  His  first  name  comes 
from  a  character  in  the  novel  and  play, 
"Lena  Rivers,"  which  his  mother  saw 
and  loved  and  thereupon  decided  that 
Durward  would  be  the  name  of  her  son, 
if  she  were  fortunate  enough  to  have 
one. 

Now  it  has  become  a  family  name, 
Randy's  full  name  being  Durward  Randall. 
He  uses  the  complete  name  for  such  im- 
portant things  as  filling  out  coupons  for 
objects  like  space  rockets  to  be  sent 
"promptly  by  mail,  you  pay  the  postman 
only  $2.95" — and  Durward  Senior  never 
ceases  to  wonder,  when  he  is  confronted  by 
some  package,  seemingly  addressed  to  him 
but  containing  things  only  a  boy  would 
order.  It  always  takes  him  a  moment  to 
realize  that  he  is  not  the  only  Durward 
Kirby. 

A  few  years  ago,  Purdue  University,  in 
Indiana,  where  he  studied  engineering, 
established  the  Durward  Kirby  Award  in 
honor  of  the  now-famous  student  who 
began  his  radio  and  TV  career  on  their 
educational  and  experimental  radio  station, 
WBAA.  Today  the  station  is  a  fine,  well 
equipped  commercial  station,  in  full-time 
operation.  But,  when  Durward  began,  it 
was  on  the  air  only  about  two  hours  a 
week.  He  remembers  he  had  to  take  an 
announcer's  audition,  for  which  he  read 
from  one  of  his  history  books. 

The  Award,  which  is  presented  an- 
nually to  the  most  outstanding  student  in 
Purdue's  radio  class,  is  a  plaque  which 
hangs  permanently  in  the  WBAA  studios, 
with  Durward's  name  on  it  and  the  name 
of  each  student  who  wins  it  permanently 
inscribed  below.  It  is  really  a  great  honor, 
and  the  Kirby  family  regard  it  as  such. 

As  far  as  Pax  and  the  boys  are  con- 
cerned, no  honor  would  be  too  great  for 
Durward  Kirby.  "He  is  rather  rare  in  our 
business,"  Pax  observes.  "He  never  just 
hangs  around  after  a  broadcast  and  talks 
show  business.  He  likes  to  come  home, 
and  he  does,  on  the  dot.  Once  at  home,  he 
is  a  family  man,  like  any  other  husband 
and  father  in  our  community. 

"Durward  is  fun  at  home,  as  well  as  on 
the  show,"  she  says,  "and  the  kids  adore 
him.  He  is  a  religious  man,  who  goes  to 
church  on  Sunday  because  he  believes  in 
it.  He  also  believes  in  using  his  religion 
every  day  in  the  week.  Sometimes,  I  think 
it  would  be  nice  if  he  were  not  quite  such 
a  perfectionist  about  everything,  if  his 
standards  were  not  always  quite  so  high, 
if  he  were  not  so  demanding  of  himself. 
But  he  isn't  the  least  bit  stern  or  difficult. 
He's  always  kind  and  considerate.  It's 
possible  that  no  husband  is  really  per- 
fect, but  it's  certain  that  this  one  happens 
to  be — for  me." 


NATIONAL  BELLAS  HESS 

SPRING  &  SUMMER  CATALOG 

For  Yon  and  Your  Family  . . .  See  hundreds  of  gay 
Spring  fashions  designed  in  New  York,  the  worid's 
style  capital.  Select  from  an  exciting  array  of  dresses, 
coats,  shoes  and  accessories  .  .  .  fine  home  items  .  .  . 
all  first  quality  and  offered  to  you  at  the  lowest 
prices  anywhere. 

Shop  by  mail,  and  join  the  millions  who  save  by 
buying  regularly  from  National  Bellas  Hess  catalogs. 
Your  choice  of  three  convenient  ways  to  buy:  cash, 
C.o.D.  or  CREDIT.  Everything  in  our  catalog  is  abso- 
lutely guaranteed — your  money  back  if  you  are  not 
delighted.  Our  69th  year. 

NATIONAL  BELLAS  HESS 


SAVE  MONEY,  SAVE  TIME-ACT  NOW! 


NATIONAL  BELLAS  HESS 

247-22  Bellas  Hess  BIdg.,  Kansas  City,  Mo. 


Please  send  me,  free,  the  new  National  Bellas 
Hess  Money-Saving  Catalog. 


Address- 

City 

Stole 


How  I  Learned 

SHORTHAND 

In  O  Weeks 


SHORTHAND 

Machine 


No    Symbols — No 
USES  ABC's 

by  Marguerite  Oearness 
Holyoke,  Moss. 
"With  SPEEDWRITING  short- 
hand. It  took  only  six  weeks 
of  study  and  I  was  taking  dic- 
tation as  fast  as  some  of  my 
friends  who  have  been  strug- 
gling for  many  months  with 
other  types  of  shorthand.  One 
week  after  finishing  the  course. 
I  received  a  raise  in  salary  with 
the  promise  of  another  in  the 
near  future." 

No  "Foreign  Language"  of  symbols— with 

-^    The  ABC  Shorthand    ®- 

Over  350,000  men  and  women  have  learned  shorthand 
the  SPEEDWRITING  way  at  home  or  through  class- 
room instruction  in  school  in  over  400  cities  in  U.S.. 
Canada,  Cuba  and  Hawaii.  Today  they  are  winning 
success  everywhere — in  business,  industry  and  Civil 
Service.  SPEEDWRITING  shorthand  is  easy  to  master 
— yet  it  is  accurate  and  speedy.  120  words  per  minute. 
Age  is  no  obstacle.  Typing  also  avai'able 

ma  ■%  «■  ^  Write  TODAY  for  FREE  book  which  gives 

I     11  I     U  full    details— and    FREE    sample    lesson    that 

■■    ■#   ■■    fc  will   show  you  how  easil.v  and  quickly   YOU 

I     ll  I     H  can    learn    SPEEDWRITING    shorthand. 

1_    '■  ^  »  Mail  the  coupon  NOW. 


DID  YOU 
SEE 


READER'S  DIGEST 


ARTICLE  ON 
SPEEDWRITING? 


School  of  SPEEDWRITING 

Dept.    302-7,    SS    W.    42    SI. 
New    York    36,    N.    Y. 


34th  Year 


please  send  me  details  and  FREE  sample  lesson. 

Q  Home  Study         a  Classroom  Instruction 
D  If  under  17,  check  here  for  Special  Booklet  A 


Name 

Address 

City Zone State.. 


I    City Zone State * 


IhCanPliqf 


ANY  INSTRUMENT 

•  •  .  even  if  you  don't  know 
a  single  note  of  music  now! 

IMAGINE!  Even  if  you  never  dreamed  you  could  play 
.  .  .  you  can  soon  surprise  your  friends  with  your 
musical  ability.  No  special  talent  or  previous  training 
needed.  Spend  just  a  few  minutes  a  day — and  only  a  few 
cents  per  lesson.  Teach  yourself  to  play  piano,  guitar, 
accordion,  whatever  instrument  you  choose.  Make  amazingly 
rapid  progress  because  you  start  right  out  playing  real 
pieces  by  note.  No  boring  exercises  to  do.  Over  ffOO.OOO 
people  have  chosen  this  easy  home  study  method. 

Stop  Cheating  Yourself  of  These  Joys! 

Popularity!  New  friends.  Gay  parties.  Good  times.  Career. 
Extra  Money  .  .  .  understand,  appreciate,  converse  about 
music.  Learn  lives  and  compositions  of  modern  and  great 
masters  .  .  .  Relax!  Banish  worries  and  frustrations. 
Satisfy  self-expression,  creative  urge.  Gain  self-confidence. 

MAIL    COUPON    FOR    FREE    BOOK— 

Bead    the    whole    fascinating    story    of    this 

wonderful    method    in    36-page    illustrated 

book.    For    FREE    copy,    mail    coupon    to: 

U.  S.  School  of   Music,   Studio  A202 

Port   Washington,    N.    Y. 

59th  successful  year. 


U.    S.    SCHOOL   OF    MUSIC 

Studio   A202.    Port  Washington,    N.    Y.  J 

Please    send    me    your    36-page    illustrated    Free    Book.  w 

I  m   interested   in  playing  (name   instrument) • 

D  *  do  D  I  do  NOr— have  instrument  now.  d 


(please  print) 


85 


Make  This 

Mollie  Parnis 

Original         j^ 

and  be  the 

Best  Dressed  Girl 

In  Town 


Rocking  Around  With  Bill  Haley 


MOLLIE  PARNIS 


Let  these  famous 
American  Designers 
help  you  be  the  best 
dressed  girl  in  town — 
if  you  can  sew: — 

Ceil  Chapman  — 
Claire  McCardell  — ' 
Tina  Leser — Jo  Cope- 
land —  Philip  Mangone 

—  Monte  Sana  —  Her-  . ,    ^      .  ^  ■ 

bert    Sondheim — Brigance—Davtd    Goodstem— 
Joset   Walker— Joseph  Halpert—Vera  Maxwell 

font  Owen — Fira — Benenson — Harvey  Bertn 

—Frank  Gallant— Mollie  Parnis— Clare  Potter. 

Patterns  of  36  original  designs  by  these  fa- 
mous names  are  now  available. 

To  see  this  entire  collection  send  50c  for  our 
100-page  pattern  booklet   XI. 

World  Wide,  Depl.  WG-7-57 

63   Central  Avenue,  Ossining,  N.   Y. 

Send   me    100-page   pattern   booklet   XI.    I    en- 
close fifty  cents. 

NAME 

STREET 

CITY 

ZONE STATE 


\ 


How  to  Make  Money  with 
^_^  Simple  Cartoons'' 


obligation.  Simply  address 


_  ARTOONISTS-  EXCHANGE 
Dept.  592  Pleasant  Hill,  Ohio 


In  12  Weeks  You  Can  Become  a 

PRACTICAL  NURSE 

AT  AVERAGE  COST  of  $1.74  PER  tESSOW 

Win  diploma  In  12  weeks'  spare  time  at 
home.  Eamwhileleaming.  Highschool 
not  needed.  Physician's  endorsement  of 
this  low-fee  course  .  .  .  Easiest  terms. 
FREE  BOOK— Send  yonrname  today! 
UNCOLN  SCHOOL  of  PRACTICAL  NURSING^^^. 

SOSLARRABEEST.,    DEPT.    102,      tOS  AHCELES  46,  CAUF. 


ANY  PHOTO  ENLARGED 


Size  8  X  10  Inches 

on  DOUBLE-WEIGHT  Paper 

Same  price  for  full  length  or  boat 
form,  groDps,  landscapes,  pet  ani- 
malB,  etc..  or  enlargements  of  any 
part  of  a  aroap  picture.  Origrmal  la 
returned  with  yoor  enlargement.      — 

SendNoMoney  3for$15o 

Jost  mail  photo,  negative  or  Bnap- 

shot  (any  eize)  and  receive  your  enlarffeHoent, 

oiaranteedtadeleBS.onbeantiJnldouble-weiEht 

Dortrait  quality  paper.  Pay  postman  67c  plus 

Dostage-or  send  69c  with  order  epi  "O  pay  post- 


m 


■e— or  send  69c  with  order  and  we  pay  post-  „hn«nstodav 

aee    I'ake  advantage  of  this  amazing  offer,  gendyour  photostoday. 

PtotesslonalArtStuillo$,544S.Main,Dept37-B,  Princeton,  Illinois 


"""A'c'^  PSORIASIS 

(GCALr    SKIN    TROUBLE  I 

^DCRmOIL 


FOR  YOtTRSELF 

no  matter  how  long  you 
have  suflered.  Write  lor 
I  FREE  book  on  Psoriasis 
and  DERMOIL  with 
V  actual  "belore — alter" 
\  photo  record  of  results. 


MAKE THi ONE 

spoTe 

TEST.i' 


^generous 
Atrial 


86 


Don't  be  embarrasaed 
with  Psoriasis,  the  usly, 
scaly  skin  disease.  Try 
non- staining    DERMOIL. 

Amazing  results  reported 
for  over  22  ycarsl  Many 
grateful   users   report   th« 

Bcaly  red  patcbes  on  body  ~^^^^^^_^  .>.>u» 

or  scalp  gradually  disappeared  and  they  „„„,,„„ 

again  enjoyed  the  thrill  ot  a  smooth  clear  ekln  DERM  Oil. 
tormuia  is  used  by  many  doctors.  Must  give  definite 
benefit  or  your  money  bacli.  Make  our  famous  "One  Spot 
Tesf'l  SEND  10c  lor  trial  bottle.  DERMOIL  sold  at 
Liggett  and  Walgreen  and  other  leading  Drug  Stores. 
Write  today  LAKE  LABORATORIES  Dept.  2804 

Box    3925    Strathmoor     Station,     Detroit     27,     Mich. 


(Continued  from  page  30)  ^^ 

heard  him  on  WPWA  Radio  in  Chester. 
Anyone  in  the  Philadelphia  area  wlio 
turned  a  radio  dial  could  hardly  help 
hearing  Bill  Haley  those  days.  When  he 
wasn't  talking,  he  was  singing;  when  he 
wasn't  playing  his  guitar,  he  was  spinning 
rGcords. 

"Now,  Haley's  a  young  guy,  too,"  Billy 
said.  "Maybe  he's  even  a  year  younger 
than  I  am,  but  he's  been  in  this  business 
all  his  life.  He  was  the  kid  star  ot  a 
Western  outfit  and  he's  played  m  hot 
bands  all  over  the  country." 

I  could  tell  he  liked  Haley.  When 
Billy  gets  worked  up  about  something,  he 
speaks  in  what  I'd  call  a  fast  drawl  and 
his  voice  sort  of  crackles.  Billy  had  met 
Bill  a  few  times  at  the  station  and  had 
seen  him  work  at  an  entertainment  park 
outside  Wilmington.  "Man,  he  had  a 
band,"  said  Billy.  "Every  guy  m  it  could 
double  and  they  got  a  chance  to  show. 
Haley  doesn't  hog  the  spotlight  himseU. 

That  was  for  me,  too.    We  agreed  that 

Bill  would  go  up  to  Chester  to  see  Haley. 

He    came    back    deflated.    Haley    didnt 

have  an  outfit  anymore.    Didn't  want  one, 

either.    Too  many    worries. 

That  should  have  finished  it,  but  Billy 
wouldn't  give  up.  In  a  couple  of  days,  he 
went  back  and  I  went  with  hun.  I  remem- 
ber the  way  he  introduced  me  to  Haley. 
"Johnny  can  play  piano  and  accordion, 
pops.  Western  or  Dixie.  He's  had  eight 
years  of  classical  music  education,  too. 
And,  in  eight  years,  one  can't  help  learn- 
ing something — even  this  guy." 

We  talked.  The  longer  the  huddle  went 
on,  the  more  I  liked  Haley.  He  looked 
like  just  a  kid  with  his  smooth  face  and 
sandy  hair  and  that  curl  that  kept  falling 
down  onto  his  forehead,  but  Billy  was 
right.  Young  as  he  was,  this  guy  had 
something.  Music  to  him  was  more  than 
some  notes  on  a  page  or  sounds  dragged 
out  of  an  instrument.  It  was  direct  com- 
munication from  one  person  to  another. 
Haley  clinched  it  by  saymg,  "All  my 
life  I've  been  looking  for  something  I 
haven't  yet  found  in  music.  Maybe  it's 
a  sound.  Maybe  it's  a  beat.  I've  always 
thought  if  I  could  get  together  with  some 
guys  who  felt  the  same  way  I  did,  we 
might  work  it  out." 

Billy's  Irish  grin  was  wide  as  a  jack-o- 

lantern.     "What  are  we  waiting  for.  Bill?" 

"It's  going  to  be  rough,"  Bill  warned.  "I 

don't    know    where    the    loot    is    coming 

from."  11., 

"Johnny  and  I  have  worked  odd  ]obs 
before,"  said  BUly.  "But  what  about  you? 
You've  got  a  family." 

"I'll  make  out,"  said  Bill.  "The  way 
I  figure  it,  I've  got  to  know  whether  I'm 
ever  going  to  amount  to  something  in 
music.  This  is  the  time  I've  got  to  make 
my  move  as  a  man.  Want  to  go  partners?" 
We  shook  hands  on  it.  That's  all  the 
contract  The  Comets  really  have  to  this 
day.  When  we  turned  into  big  business, 
we  had  to  formalize  it  with  corporations, 
Isut  we're  still  just  a  bunch  of  guys  who 
trust  each  other. 

We  got  our  fourth  partner,  Jim  Fergu- 
son, who  is  our  promotion  and  business 
manager,  in  about  the  same  off-hand  way. 
A  big,  colorful  character  who  has  been 
all  over  the  world,  commanded  a  Navy 
vessel  and  done  all  sorts  of  interesting 
jobs,  "Lord  Jim"  published  a  little  news- 
paper and  was  a  commentator  at  the  sta- 
tion. He  took  an  interest  in  us  and 
helped  us.  When  we  felt  low,  he  en- 
couraged us.  We  were  his  hobby — until 
eventually  we  took  up  so  much  of  his 
time,  we  asked  him  if  he  would  let  us  be 
his  business — if  he  would  become  a  part- 
ner.   Jim    is    the    one    who    has    foraged 


around,  got  us.  bookings,  guided  us  through 
the  time  when  we  didn't  fit  anywhere, 
and  now  is  about  to  take  us  around  the 
world.  .  ,      1 

We  had  a  lot  of  work  to  do,  however, 
before  much  of  anybody  wanted  to  hear 
us     Bill  Haley  connived  and  contrived  to 
get  us  pocket  money— one  show  a  week, 
officiaUy,  at  the  station.  We  sort  of  drifted 
into  others.    In  the  beginning,  I  was  paid 
eighteen   doUars    a   week,   and   my   folks 
thought  I  had  flipped  when  I  was  happy 
about  it.    I  found  an  outside  ]ob  with  the 
Wilmark  System,  a  department  store  pro- 
tective   system,    and    was   lucky    to    have 
a  boss  who  wanted  to  see  me  make  it  m 
music.    Whenever     our     bookings     were 
good,  I'd  quit.    When  they  were  bad,  he 
would    hire    me    back.    BiUy,    at    various 
times,  worked  m  a  hosiery  mill,  a  woolen 
mill,  and  as  a  plumber's  helper.    Haley, 
at  the  station,  worked  practicaUy  around 
the  clock.  When  he  had  his  Country  Store 
on    at   5:00    A.M.,    he    even    slept    at   the 
studio.    It's  no  wonder  his  marriage  broke 
up     That's  a  personal  cost  which  he  paid 
and  which  none  of  us  Uke  to  talk  about. 

We  took  any  bookings  we  could  get, 
lodge  dances,  banquets,  weddings,  litUe 
joints  that  called  themselves  night  clubs. 
But  the  important  thing  was  that  we  re- 
hearsed in  the  studio  every  day  for  two 
years.  The  people  there,  including  the 
owner,  went  out  of  their  way  to  help  us. 
One  of  the  engineers  gave  us  a  big  assist 
by  putting  our  trial  runs  on  tape  and 
playing  them  back  so  we  could  study 
them.  When  we  were  broke,  he  would 
sort  of  delay  putting  it  on  the  bill. 

Always,  we  were  looking  for  somethmg. 
We'd  take  a  standard,  like  "Ida,"  and 
play  it  every  way  we  could  think  of — fast, 
slow,  loud,  soft,  hillbiUy,  waltz,  Dixie, 
progressive.  "Haley  was  like  a  scientist, 
putting  one  thing  after  another  into  a  test 
tube,"  Billy  says,  "and  he'd  be  so  happy 
when  some  experiment  came  out  right. 
One  of  the  most  important  of  those  hap- 
pened the  day  we  were  studymg  some 
Coimt  Basie  records.  Since  we  dicta  t 
have  brasses,  we  fooled  around  with  the 
strings,  trying  to  get  the  same  efEect,  try- 
ing to  build  volume.  Haley,  with  the  bass, 
discovered  that  when  he  plucked  the 
strings  in  the  accepted  way,  it  came  out 
rrom-pahhh.  If  he  back-slapped  them,  it 
changed  the  accent  to  rrrroom-paft.  Thats 
how  the  heavy  back-beat  became  the  basic 
form  in  our  rock  'n'  roll. 

We  liked  it,  but  we  didn't  know  what 
we  had— nor  was  thaj,  alone,  enough.  Al- 
ways we  had  the  feeling  that,  if  we  ]ust 
managed  to  turn  the  next  corner,  we 
would  run  into  the  big  surprise— the 
thing  we  were  hunting  for. 

We  worried  most  about  getting  people 
to  dance.  Time  after  time.  Bill  Haley 
would  say,  "We've  got  to  get  them  on 
their  feet.  Make  them  move.  Make  them 
feel  that  rhythm."  We  talked  about  it 
constantly,  for  this,  we  knew,  was  the 
biggest  problem  any  musician  faced. 
America  had  quit  dancing.  That  period 
when  the  vocalist  was  the  top  attraction 
had  brought  an  end  to  the  big  band  and 
the  big  dance  hall.  Kids  listened  instead 
of  danced.  The  entertainment  tax  had 
killed  off  dancing  in  night  clubs— and  the 
jobs  with  the  clubs.  Good  musicians  were 
out   of   work.  1   1     J   . 

Every  time  we  did  get  a  club  date,  we 
watched  every  minute  to  see  what  effect 
our  music  had  on  people.  Once  we 
thought  the  secret  was  to  play  loud.  II 
people  couldn't  talk  across  a  table,  they 
got  uo  and  danced.  We  peaked  up  our 
amplifiers— and  got  thrown  out  of  more 
joints  that  way.  Owners  didn't  like  il 
when    people    danced    instead    of    buying 


drinks.  Volume,  alone,  wasn't  the  an- 
swer. 

Finally,  came  the  time  when  the,  big 
surprise  hit  us  right  in  the  face.  It's  Bill 
Haley's  story,  and  I'll  let  him  tell  it: 

"Just  ahead  of  my  show  at  the  station. 
Bill  says,  "there  was  a  rhythm-and-blues 
disc  jockey  who  had  the  wildest  sign-off 
I'd  eve-  heard — something  about  'We're 
going  to  knock  down  the  mail  box,  tear  up 
the  floor  .  .  .  we're  going  to  rock  this  joint 
.  .'  I  couldn't  get  it  out  of  my  head.  Out 
on  the  job  one  night,  just  kidding  the 
band,  I  went  into  that  thing,  hitting  it 
with  our  rrrroom-pah.  beat  instead  of  the 
way  the  deejay  had  it  on  his  record.  Billy 
and  Johnny  started  to  laugh  and  joined 
in.  Al  Rex  hit  it  on  the  bass.  We  really 
got  a  kick  out  of  it  ourselves.  It  was  our 
private  joke.  Then  I  lool.ed  around — and, 
so  help  me,  people  were  dancing.  I  turned 
to  the  guys  and  asked,  'What  on  earth  did 
I  do?'" 

Whatever  we  did,  one  person  told  an- 
other. The  next  night,  we  had  a  bigger 
crowd.  And,  the  night  after,  the  joint 
was  packed.  Bill  went  to  Lord  Jim  and 
said,  "We  wish  you'd  come  over  and  see 
this.    Something  has  happened  here." 

His  verdict  was  just  what  we  had  hoped 
to  hear.  "If  you  can  do  it  with  eighty 
people  in  a  place  like  this,  there's  no  rea- 
son you  can't  do  it  with  eighty  thousand." 

His  judgment  proved  right — a  long  while 
later.  An  independent  recording  com- 
pany cut  "Rock  the  Joint,"  but  disc  jock- 
eys didn't  go  for  it.  It  wasn't  rhythm- 
and-blues,  it  wasn't  pops,  it  wasn't  West- 
ern.- For  about  a  year,  we  remained  a 
freak  attraction.  No  one  knew  where  to 
place  us. 

What  I  still  think  of  as  our  "despera- 
tion huddle"  brought  the  turning  point — 
but,  believe  me,  it  was  a  long,  slow  turn. 
Bill,  Jim,  Billy  and  I,  talking  things  over, 
realized  that  the  kids  were  the  ones  we 
had  to  reach.  They  were  the  ones  who 
were  tired  of  the  old  music  which  had 
been  warmed  over  since  the  days  of  Ben- 
ny Goodman.  They  were  the  ones  who 
kept  the  recording  industry  going  by  buy- 
ing 100  million  records  a  year.  How  to 
get  to  them  was  the  problem. 

"You're  not  going  to  find  them  playing 
in  beer  joints,"  said  Billy.  "The  kids  we 
want  to  have  hear  us  aren't  permitted  to 
go  into  those  places." 

"If  the  kids  won't  come  to  you,"  said 
Jim,  "why  don't  you  go  where  they  are — 
in  the  high  schools?" 

We  knew  that  score.  No  dough.  But 
Haley  had  an  idea  and  took  a  vote.  "You 
guys  game  to  do  it — for  free?"  Billy  and 
I  nodded. 

That's  how  it  happened  that  we  played 
183  high-school  assemblies.  It  was  tough 
to  do  at  the  time,  but  it  proved  the  smart- 
est thing  we  ever  tried.  The  kids  taught 
us.  We  tried  our  experiments  on  them. 
When  their  shoulders  started  moving, 
their  feet  tapping  and  their  hands  clap- 
ping, we  knew  that  particular  tune  or 
style  was  worth  keeping  in  the  act. 

It  was  the  Haley  ear,  the  Haley  sensi- 
tivity to  his  audience,  which  brought  us 
our  first  hit.  Bill  noticed  that  the  kids' 
favorite  expression  was  "Crazy."  A  crazy 
sweater,  a  crazy  tie,  a  crazy  beat.  Bill 
took  their  word — and  their  football  chant 
"Go!  Go!  Go!" — and  gave  it  back  to  them 
in  a  song.  As  he  says,  "  'Crazy,  Man, 
Crazy'  sold  a  million  records  so  fast  it 
would  make  your  eyeballs  shimmy."  It 
was  the  first  nonclassifiable  tune  to  break 
over  into  pop  record  sales.  Riffs  we  had 
invented  in  'our  band  were  copied  by  oth- 
ers. Our  rrrroom-pah  was  picked  up 
everywhere.  The  big  back  beat  was  rock- 
ing the  country. 

You  rock  'n'  roll  fans  know  the  rest.  It 
was  our  pal,  disc  jockey  Alan  Freed,  now 


beautiful  Libcrtj  Homcs 

43  designs . . .  Only  $2376  to  $7950 


SO  EASY  TO   BUILD 

Blueprints,  working  plans  are  simple, 
easy  to  follow.  Materials  are  pre-cut  to 
exact  size,  numbered.  Do  all  the  work 
yourself,  or  hire  carpenters. 

4  Attractive  Payment  Plans 

Liberty  Homes  acceptable  for  FHA  or 
VA  financing.  Details  in  catalog. 


Build   it  yourself 

...  or  direct 

its  construction 

Save  thousands  of  dollars 
either  way  on  Cape  Cod 
bungalows,  ranch  homes 
with  2,  3,  4  bedrooms, 
large  living-dining  areas, 
"dream  kitchens". 
Unique  Liberty  Home 
Building  Plan  outlines 
every  step. 
The  3-bedroom  Wood/own 

SO   EASY  TO  INDIVIDUALIZE 

Most  homes  available  with  basement  or 
utility    room.    Many    optional    features 


are  outlined  in   52-page   catalog.   Floor 
plans,  43  house  designs  shown. 

Materials  Shipped  Freight  Prepaid 

Materials  specified  for  home  shipped  com- 
plete, ready  to  erect.  No  shipping  charges. 


Send  for 

colorful 

52-page 

catalog 

43  Liberty  Homes 
in  full  color  with 
detailed  floor  plans. 
Send  25c  today. 


LIBERTY       HOMES 

Lewis  Manufacturing  Co.  4172  Lafayette  Ave.  Bay  City,  Mich. 

Please  send  me  Liberty  Homes'  Catalog  for  which  I  enclose  25c. 
NAME 

STREET  or  RED 


CITY 


STATE 


POEMS  WANTED 

■  ^^  mim  I  ■  I  ^^  For   musical   setting   .    .    .    Send 

■  ^^   ^^  ■  ■  ™  -^^    y^^j.     Poems     today     for     FREE 
EXAMINATION:      Any      subject.      Immediate     consideration. 

Five  Star  Music  Masters,  265  Beacon  BIdg.,  Boston,  Mass. 


Here  are  five  framed  picturea  of  your  favorite  TV  or  Screen  Star.  danBling 
from  your  wriBta.  Lovely  Linked  Pearl  Bracelet  permita  easy  chahse  of 
pictures,  too.  Carry  any  picture  of  friends.  petB,  family.  Order  several 
today.  Special  Bargain  Priced  at  59c  each  (2  for  $1)  (5  for  $2).  FREE! 
50  Glopay  Photoa  of  Popular  Stars  with  each  Bracelet.  Ready  to  fit  your 
Pio  Bracelet.  Start  your  own  fan  club  or  exchanEe  photoa  with  friends. 
Get  In  on  this  new  fad. 
IMPERIAL  SALES,  480  Lexington  Ave.. Dept.42S,N.Y.17.N.Y. 

Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 
New  Way  Without  Surgery 

Science  Finds  Healing  Substance  That 
Relieves  Pain — Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 

For  the  first  time  science  has  found  a 
new  healing  substance  with  the  astonishing 
ability  to  shrink  hemorrhoids  and  to  relieve 
pain  —  without  surgery. 

In  case  after  case,  while  gently  relieving 
pain,  actual  reduction  (shrinkage)  took 
place. 

Most  amazing  of  all  —  results  were  so 
thorough  that  sufferers  made  astonishing 
statements  like  "Piles  have  ceased  to  be  a 
problem!" 

The  secret  is  a  new  healing  substance 
(Bio-Dyne*)  — discovery  of  a  world-famous 
research  institute. 

This  substance  is  now  available  in  sup- 
pository or  ointment  form  under  the  name 
Preparation  H.*  Ask  for  it  at  all  drug  count- 
ers—money back  guarantee.     *Beg.  U.  S.  Pat.  Off. 


Baby 
Shoes 

at  home!  $40  week  possible. 
We  contact  stores  for   you." 


SEW 

^^^  at  home!  $40  wt 


TINY-TOT  CO.,  Gallipolis  47,  Ohio 

Callouses 

Pain,  Tenderness,  Burn- 
ing Are  Quickly  Relieved 

You'll  quickly  forget  you  have 
painful  callouses,  burning  or 
tenderness  on  the  bottom  of 
your  feet,  when  you  apply  Dr. 
SchoU's  Zino-pads.  Thin,  soft, 
wonderfully  soothing,  cushion- 
ing, protective.  Separate  Medi- 
cations included  for  quickly  re- 
moving callouses.  Try  themt 


D-Scholls  Zino-pads 


SHEETS,  TOASTERS, 
TOWELS,MiXERS,etc 
GIVEN  TO  YOU  FREE! 

Hundreds   of    famous,    na- 
tionally advertised  products 
to   choose   from — furniture, 
tugs,  lamps,  slip  covers,  sil- 
verware,   china,    draperies. 
You  get  $50.00  —  $100.00 
, ,  .^_        and    more    in    merchandise 
/        ^*   ^B       just  by  being  Secretary  of  a 
<  "tSH^       Popular  Club  you  help  your 

friends  form.  It's  easy !  It's 
fun !  Nothing  to  sell,  noth- 
ing to  buy.  Write  today. 

rPopulaTciiibPlan,  Dept.  K929,  Lynbrook,  N.Y.  |  _ 

I  Send  Big  FREE  276-Page  FULL-COLOR  Catalog  |  * 

I  Name. _ »..»»..~......... ..........._. ».».  I  n 

I  City _..„ _ State | 

" •       87 


88 


%\(kVttSS  SAU 

DRESSES U 


U98> 


ASSORTED  in  Silk,  Wool,  CoHon  ft  Rayon  .  All 
SIZES  in  Good  Condilien.BUT  NO  lESS  THAN 
20  DRESSES  AT  THIS  BARGAIN  PRICE. 

MONEY  BACK  IF  NOT  SATISFIED 

.$1.00  Dapetil  MUST  com*  with  order.  You  pay 

pettman  bolonco  plu>  C.O.D.,  poilog*  chorgat 

A  TRIAl  ORDER  Will  CONVINCE  YOU  OF 

OUR  WONDERFUl  BARGAINS 


MAIL  ORDER  MART 
199  Sackett   St.,  Bklyn  31,  N.Y. 


Dept. 
RM-2 


•  Name. 


I  Address, 

I  City Slate 

I    Encloied    find    J  1. 00    DepMit.    I   will   pay    postn 
I    balance  PLUS  postage. 


ITEM 


SONGPOEMSWANTED 

To  be  set  to  music.   Send  your  poems  today  for  free 
examination ! 

J.  CHAS.   McNEIL   (A.   B.  Master  of  Music) 

510-MG  So.  Alexandria  Los  Angeles  5,  Calif. 


WANT  TO  BE 
A  PRACTICAL 


ACT  I 


. .    r  NOW  -  HELP  FILL  THE  NEED 

r  you  can  prepare  for  practical  experience 

_j  a  Practical  Nurse  in  spare  time.  Many 

earn  while  learning.  Ages   18  to  55.  High 

'school  not  necessary.  Easy  payments.  Write 

for  free  information  and  sample  lesson  pages. 

WAYNE  SCHOOL  OF  PRACTICAL  NURSING 

2S2S  Sheffield  Ave.,  0*>k  iE-90.  CHICACO  14,  ILL. 


WALLET 

SIZE 
PHOTOS 


from  favorite  pictures,  weddings, 
graduations,  babies,  classmates,  pets, 
etc.  Send  $1  with  picture.  Your  origi- 
nal will  be  returned  with  25  beautiful 
prints  on  finest  double  weight  portrait 
paper.  Money  back  guarantee.  Add 
100    P.P.  

FREE!   I    PHOTO    ENCASED    IN    PLAST 

ROXANNE  studios—Box  ns,  Dept 

Wall  St.  Sta..   New   York  5,    N.   Y. 


IC 
819 


TROUBLED 
WITH 

UNWANTED 


1 15, 1. 1. 


You   needn't   be!   Now  you    can 

remove    unwanted    hair   forever 

—  in   the  privacy  of  your   home 

I  —  with  the  famous  Mahler  Hair 

I  Removal     Eprlatorl    Acclaimed 

by    thousands    of    women    who 

I  have    discovered     how    Mahler 

troys   the   hair    root   perma 

sntlyl  By  following  our  instruc- 

you,  too,  can  learn  to  use 

j^the    Mahler   safely   and   effi- 

1  ciently!  Positive  money-back 

guarantee!   Act  today! 

Send  B$  for  illustrated  16-page 
booklet   "New  Radiant  Beauty"! 


Learn  Facts  About 

Colitis  and  Piles 

FREE  BOOK  Explains  Causes, 
Effects   and   Treatment 


C0UOii| 


^MM 


mm 


0. 


Avoid 

^Dangers 

>f  Delay 


Learn  about  Colon  troubles,  Stomach 
conditions.  Piles  and  other  rectal  con- 
ditions. Causes,  effects  and  treatment. 
130-page  book  sent  FREE.  McCleary 
Clinic  and  Hospital,  223  Elms  Blvd., 
Excelsior  Springs  4,  Mo. 


at  WINS  in  New  York,  who  popularized 
the  name,  "rock  'n'  roll."  He  was  one  of 
the  first  to  recognize  that  here  was  the 
new  music  which  all  of  the  young  people 
in  America  wanted  to  hear.  This  wasn't 
jazz— fine  as  that  is — left  over  from  their 
parents'  day.  Neither  was  it  the  swing  of 
their  younger  uncles  and  aunts.  This  was 
their  own.  The  thing  that  is  happening 
now.    The  big  beat. 

Many,  many  others  helped  build  it.  We 
happened  to  be  the  ones  chosen  to  ap- 
pear in  the  movie,  "Blackboard  Jungle" — 
which  got  it  into  films.  We  caught  a  lot 
of  grief  when  some  squares  decided  that 
we  were  thereby  the  voice  of  juvenile  de- 
linquency. This  is  not  true.  For  every 
kid  who  makes  a  nuisance  of  himself,  I'll 
show  you  a  hundred  thousand  who  are 
real  great.  Sometime,  maybe,  you  can 
get  Bill  Haley  to  tell  you  what  he  thinks 
about  that. 

We  had  a  better  time  with  our  own 
picture,  for  Columbia,  "Rock  Around  the 
Clock."  "Don't  Knock  the  Rock"  is  now 
being  released.  We'll  soon  have  news  for 
you  about  the  next. 

Recording-wise,  we've  made  eighteen 
hits  for  Decca — the  highest  sales  anyone 
has  had  during  the  past  couple  of  years. 
You've  liked  best  "Rock  Around  the 
Clock,"  "See  You  Later,  Alligator," 
"R-o-c-k,"  and  a  couple  of  others. 

We  got  our  own  kicks  out  of  seeing  you 
kids  at  our  concert  tour.  You  were  just 
great,  coming  into  the  theater  every  night, 
from  Alabama  to  Canada,  dressed  in  your 
party  best.  When  you  started  clapping 
and  beating  your  feet,  any  man  in  the 
world  would  give  you  the  best  show  it 
was  possible  for  him  to  give.  You  be- 
haved yourselves,  too.  You  didn't  always 
get  credit  for  that,  but  we  knew  it. 

Now  we're  headed  around  the  world. 
We  realize  it  is  a  long  time — nine  years,  in 
fact — since  Billy  Williamson  and  I  sat  in 
that  dismal  hotel  room  in  Newark  and 
blueprinted  our  ideal  leader,  our  ideal 
band,  the  way  we  wanted  to  live. 

We've  got  the  band  Billy  and  I  wanted — 
the  guys  who  would  stick  together.  Every- 
one who  has  joined  us  has  been  chosen  to 
fit  the  gang.  Al  was  the  first  to  come  in. 
We've  now  got  Franny  Beecher  on  elec- 
tric guitar,  Rudy  Pompillii  on  sax  and 
Ralph  Jones  on  drums.     It's  a  good  crew. 

Perhaps  the  most  important  thing  about 
keeping  us  together  is  the  fact  that  we 
know,  to  keep  this  happy  beat  of  rock  'n' 
roll  going,  each  one  of  us  has  to  have  a 
happy  life  of  his  own.  We'll  work  up  a 
storm.    We'll  drive   500  miles   a  night  to 


play  the  next  day's  date,  we'll  make  a 
picture  as  fast  as  a  studio  can  focus  its 
cameras,  but  we  have  to  know  where 
horhe   is. 

Sometimes  our  phone  bills,  for  calling 
home,  run  up  to  a  thousand  dollars  a 
month.  We  say  there  are  foiirteen  in  this 
outfit,  not  seven,  for  all  the  guys  are  mar- 
ried now.    Rudy  was  the  last  holdout. 

As  you  might  expect,  from  our  own  long 
friendship,  Billy  married  an  Italian  girl 
and  I  married  an  Irish  girl.  Cathy  was  a 
practical  nurse  at  the  Delaware  County 
Hospital  when  she  came  to  hear  us  in 
Lima,  Pennsylvania,  and  suddenly,  that 
confirmed  bachelor,  Billy,  wasn't  quite  so 
"confirmed"  anymore.  I  met  Helen  O'-  - 
Shaughnessy  in  Philadelphia — and  when 
my  folks,  like  good  Italians,  were  still 
saying  I  should  have  a  steady  job  before  j 
I  thought  of  getting  married,  Helen  was 
saying,  "I'm  a  good  office  worker.  That 
makes  one  regular  income  in  the  family." 

We  got  married  when  the  band  found 
its  first  two-weeks  engagement.  Billy  and 
Catherine  Cafra  on  November  29,  1950; 
Helen  and  I  on  December  2,  1950.  The 
girls  went  with  us,  and  our  fine  friends, 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Ralph  Caletti,  of  the  Edge- 
mont  Inn,  Trenton,  New  Jersey,  greeted 
us  with  a  double  wedding  cake  and  a  j 
party.  ■ 

Bill  Haley,  too,  found  his  big  romance 
when  a  pretty  girl  came  to  hear  the  band. 
On  November  18,  1951,  he  married  Joan 
Barbara  Cupchak  at  Camden,  New  Jer- 
sey. They  now  have  three  children — Joan, 
born  March  15,  1953;  William  John  Clifton 
Haley,  Jr.,  born  July  28,  1955;  and  James 
(named  for  Lord  Jim,  of  course),  born 
October   8,    1956.  | 

The  Williamsons  have  a  son,  Billy  Jr.,     .' 
bom    October    24,     1952.    Our    daughter, 
Linda,   was  born  October  3,  1951. 

We  all  live  near  Chester,  Pennsylvania, 
It  turns  into  a  little  community  of  our 
ow^n,  because  when  we  men  are  on  the 
road,  our  wives  can  get  together.  When 
we're  all  home,  we  have  parties  and  pic- 
nics. We  also  have  a  couple  of  boats  we 
use  for  the  fishing  trips  which  are  our  big 
recreation. 

Only  poor  Jim  remains  a  bachelor.  We 
were  his  worry  so  long  he  had  no  time 
for  anyone  else.  But  we  have  hopes  for 
him.  One  of  these  days,  he,  too,  will  meet 
a  pretty  girl  when  we're  out  on  some 
show.  Then  there  will  be  eight  families, 
instead  of  seven,  in  the  Haley  community. 
It's  inevitable,  for  we  already  have  what 
Billy  and  I  dreamed  about,  a  great  big, 
devoted  musical  family. 


The  World's  My  Family 


(Continued  from  page  44) 
truly  blessed.  About  a  year  ago,  when 
Roy  was  on  a  hunting  trip,  and  Dale  alone 
with  the  children,  there  was  a  fire,  but  no 
one  was  hurt.  Later,  the  living  room, 
which  had  been  badly  damaged,  had  to 
be  redone.  It  is  now  more  attractive  than 
ever. 

On  the  side  opposite  the  fireplace  is  a 
family  altar.  This  is  just  one  of  several 
places  in  the  house  where  this  family 
prays. 

Of  the  seven  children,  four  are  legally 
adopted.  Marion  is  technically  a  "ward" 
because  of  Scottish  laws  which  make  a 
legal  adoption  by  the  Rogers   impossible. 

"Your  family,"  a  friend  once  said  to  Roy 
and  Dale,  "reminds  me  of  the  one  de- 
scribed in  'Room  for  One  More.'  When- 
ever I  think  your  family  is  complete,  you 
always  seem  to  add  one  more." 

Dale  laughed  gently.  "Yes,  there  is  room 
for  one  more.  And  sometimies  I  think  I'd 


like  to  adopt  another  child,  perhaps  a  little 
boy.  But  it  might  not  be  fair  to  the  other 
childi-en.  For  each  one  needs  our  love  and 
individual  attention.  Life  is  a  constant 
battle  against  the  clock.  Sometimes  it 
seems  as  if  there  just  aren't  enough  hours 
in  the  day  to  give  each  child  the  love  cmd 
individual  reassurance  he  needs." 

As  soon  as  the  children  are  old.  enough 
to  understand,  each  one  learns  how  pre- 
cious adopted  children  are.  Roy  and  Dale 
tell  them  that  they  were  especially  chosen, 
out  of  many  children.  They  make  them 
understand  how  much  they  were  wanted, 
how  eagerly  they  were  welcomed. 

"The  others  don't  need  any  reassurance," 
said  Dale.  "They  already  have  emotional 
security." 

But  Sandy,  Dodie  and  Debbie,  the  three 
youngest  adoptees,  love  to  hear  the  stories 
of  how  they  came  into  the  Rogers'  love- 
filled  life.  "Mama,"  says  Dodie,  her  dark 
eyes  gleaming  with  love,  "please  tell  me 


again   the  story  of  Robin,   the   baby  that 
died,  and  of  me." 

And  so  Dale  begins:  "God  gave  us  a 
little  girl.  She  was  sickly  but  wonderful. 
Her  name  was  Robin.  She  had  blond  hair 
and  blue  eyes  and  she  looked  like  a  little 
angel.  I  think  she  was  an  angel  that  God 
sent  to  us  for  just  a  little  while.  She 
taught  us  many  things.  And  then  God 
reached  out  His  arms  for  her,  and  took  her 
home  with  Him. 

"We  missed  her  so,  your  father  and  I, 
and  we  were  very  sad.  One  day  we  came 
to  a  home  with  lots  of  babies  that  didn't 
have  any  mothers.  There  were  thirty-two 
babies  in  the  room  we  visited.  And  right 
in  the  middle  of  the  room  was  a  darling 
little  girl  with  black  hair  and  brown  eyes. 
I  took  her  in  my  arms  and  hugged  her.  Do 
you  know  what  the  little  girl's  name  was?" 
And    Dodie,    her    dark    eyes    sparkling, 
says,  "Dodie." 
"Do  you  know  her  full  name?" 
Dodie   says   proudly,    "Mary   Little   Doe 
Rogers." 

"I  told  Roy  all  about  the  little  girl,"  Dale 
continues,  "and  he  said,  'Why  don't  we 
adopt  her,  and  make  her  our  very  own? 
She  needs  a  mother  and  father,  and  we 
need  a  little  girl.' 

"And  so  we  asked  if  we  could  have  this 
little  Indian  girl  for  our  own  child,  to  talce 
care  of  her  so  that  she  would  always  know 
she  was  loved  and  wanted.  Roy,  you 
know,  has  Choctaw  blood  in  him,  too,  just 
as  our  little  girl  has.  One  day  a  telegram 
came,  saying  we  could  have  Dodie  for  oiu- 
very  own. 

"We  went  to  the  orphanage  where  Dodie 
was,  and  we  put  one  of  Robin's  little  hats 
and  coats  on  her.  We  thought  that  would 
help  our  grief,  and  it  did." 

Sometimes  Dodie  or  Debbie  sleeps  in  the 
crib  that  was  Robin's.  "I  can't  bear  to 
give  it  away,"  said  Dale,  her  voice  break- 
ing a  little. 

The  older  children  were  away  at  school, 
but  Dale  tiptoed  into  the  guest  room 
where  little  Debbie,  the  Korean  girl,  was 
supposed  to  be  asleep. 

She  was  awake,  and  greeted  Dale  by 
holding  out  her  arms  from  the  crib  that 
had  been  Robin's.  On  the  wall  to  the  left 
of  the  crib  was  a  crayon  copy,  by  a  fan,  of 
a  color  etching  of  Robin  which  Roy  and 
Dale  will  always  treasure.  And  over 
Robin's  bed,  in  which  Debbie  was  now 
resting,  was  a  little  figure  of  an  angel 
with  a  night  light  m  her  hand. 

"Debbie  likes  to  hear  how  she  came  into 
our  lives,"  said  Dale.  "I  tell  her  how  she 
was  chosen  out  of  800  children,  and  how 
she  flew  in  a  plane  over  the  deep 
ocean."  Like  Dodie,  Debbie  responds  with 
interest  to  the  detailed  story  of  how  she 
came  to  be  a  part  of  the  Rogers  household. 
When  Dale  Evans  married  Roy,  about 
nine  years  ago,  and  took  over  the  care  of 
motherless  Cheryl,  Linda  and  Dusty,  she 
didn  t  dream  that  she  and  Roy  would  ever 
adopt  other  children.  It  was  very  difficult 
at  first  to  get  Roy's  children  to  accept  her 
m  place  of  the  mother  whom  God  had 
taken,  as  the  result  of  childbirth  compli- 
cations following  Dusty's  birth.  The  chil- 
dren at  first  resented  Dale,  regarding  her 
as  an  intruder  in  their  household.  Once 
when  Dale  was  changing  the  position  of  a 
chair,  little  Linda  walked  in  and  said 
Don  t  push  that  chair  around.  That's  my 
mommy  s  chair,  not  yours." 
u-rP^]?  dropped  on  her  knees  and  said. 
Darling  your  mommy  has  gone  to  heaven. 
And  Grod  has  brought  us  all  together,  so 
we  can  have  a  complete  family.  We  all 
belong  to  each  other  now,  and  everything 
we  have  belongs  to  all  of  us.  That's  what 
tamilies  are  for— to  love  and  to  share." 
It  took  months  for  Dale  to  win  over  the 
Rogers  children  completely.  Often  when 
she   was   bewildered,   hurt   and    confused 


she  prayed  to  God.  And  praying,  found  the 
answers.  The  children  grew  to  love  her, 
and  soon  called  her  "mother"  and  "mama" 
of  their  own  accord. 

Dale  and  Roy  thought  their  happiness 
was  complete  when  Robin  was  born.  "Hi, 
you're  beautiful,"  Dale  said,  when  she 
looked  at  Robin  for  the  first  time. 

And  Robin  was  beautiful.  At  first,  the 
doctor  who  brought  Robin  into  the  world 
couldn't  bear  to  tell  Dale  that  her  beauti- 
ful baby  appeared  to  be  mentally  retarded. 
When  Dale  first  learned  this  about  Robin, 
she  couldn't  believe  it,  couldn't  accept  it. 
The  doctor  who  had  delivered  Robin,  and 
their  minister,  both  told  Dale  and  Roy  the 
same  thing:  "This  can  either  make  your 
lives  or  break  them.  It's  up  to  you." 

"They  were  right,"  said  Dale.  "What 
happens  to  people  faced  with  this  kind  of 
problem  depends  on  the  amount  of  re- 
ligious faith  they  have.  If  they  have  noth- 
ing to  reach  out  to,  beyond  themselves, 
having  a  mentally  retarded  child  can  be  so 
frustrating  that  they  will  break  under  it. 
But,  as  Dr.  Madison  said,  'The  person  who 
has  strong  faith  in  God  can  come  through 
the  experience  with  colors  flying.' 

"That's  what  saved  my  sanity.  If  I  had 
not  had  experience  with  God  before  Robin 
was  born,  I  could  not  have  taken  it.  I  feel 
so  deeply  for  parents  who  have  no  place 
to  turn.  Without  faith,  such  an  experience 
can  be  like  being  in  a  squirrel  cage." 

Al  Rackin,  Roy's  and  Dale's  public  rela- 
tions expert,  had  said,  "Robin  lived  just 
two  years.  And  yet,  in  those  brief  two 
years,  she  accomplished  more  than  most 
people  do  in  sixty  or  seventy  years. 

"Because  of  Robin,  parents  no  longer 
hide  their  mentally  retarded  children.  Be- 
cause of  Robin,  there  are  schools  for  these 
exceptional  children.  Because  of  Robin, 
there  is  a  special  clinic  at  the  Children's 
Hospital  in  Los  Angeles,  founded  by  three 
pioneering  doctors,  who  have  found  ways 
to  help  these  children." 

After  Robin's  death.  Dale  Evans  reahzed 
how  much  Robin  had  been  like  an  angel 
of  God,  sent  to  teach  her  own  family  un- 
dying lessons   of  unselfishness. 

When  a  new  baby  arrives,  the  other 
children  usually  resent  the  new  arrival, 
for  they  fear  that  there  won't  be  enough 
love  to  go  around.  Often,  they  temporarily 
hate  the  new  child,  for  needing  so  much  of 
the  mother's  time  and  attention. 

But  Dale  taught  the  children  that  Robin 
needed  so  much  attention  because  she  was 
like  a  bird  with  a  broken  wing,  who 
naturally  needs  more  help  and  attention 
than  the  birds  with  perfect  wings,  who  can 
ny  about  on  their  own. 

After  Robin  died— her  face  radiant,  her 
hands  outstretched  to  the  ceiling,  as  though 
she  saw  some  wonderful  messenger  com- 
ing for  her— Dale  penned  the  moving  book 
Angel  Unaware."  All  royalties  from  the 
book,  a  best-seller,  have  gone  to  the  Na- 
tional Association  for  Retarded  Children. 
Though  torn  by  grief  when  Robin  died, 
Dale  and  Roy  were  strengthened  by  their 
faith  that  Robin  had  been  a  part  of  the 
heavenly  purpose,  sent  to  show  them  what 
they  could  do  with  their  lives. 

One  of  the  things  they  decided  to  do  was 
to  adopt  other  children.  They'd  had  an  un- 
easy feeling  for  some  time  that  Dusty, 
growing  up  in  a  household  filled  mostly 
with  women,  needed  a  brother  about  his 
own  age.  While  they  were  on  a  personal- 
appearance  tour,  they  got  a  message  say- 
ing that  they  could  adopt  little  Dodie,  the 
Indian  girl.  Wouldn't  it  be  wonderful,  they 
asked  each  other,  if  they  could  also  bring 
back  a  brother  for  Dusty? 

While  they  were  on  the  last  leg  of  their 
personal  appearance  trip,  in  Cincinnati,  a 
woman  in  Covington,  Kentucky,  wired  to 
ask  permission  to  bring  a  girl  suffering 
from    cerebral    palsy    to    meet    Roy.     He 


MAKE  BIG  MONEY 

D  FuU  or  Part  Time! 
LJ  High  Commissions! 
Lj  No  Experience! 
n  No  Age  Requirements! 
n  Free  Sales  Kit! 
n  No  investment! 
D  No  Obligation! 

Rush  your  name  and  address  to- 
day for  amazing  new  sales  kit.  It's 
absolutely  FREE.  Gives  you  star- 
tling information.  Tells  you  how 
to  make  big  money  fast  and  often 
by  helping  us  take  orders  for 
magazine  subscriptions.  It's  easy! 
No  experience  needed!  Become 
our  personal  magazine  represen- 
tative in  your  community.  Free 
kit  works  like  magic  to  put  dol- 
lars into  your  pocket!  You  don't 
invest  a  penny  of  your  money 
now  or  any  time.  We  supply  ev- 
erything you  need  free.  Act  now 


Paste  coupon  below  on  post  card  and  ma 
today!  Extra  cash  is  yours  for  the  asking 


Subscription  Agents  Division, 

Mocfadden  Publications, 

205  E.  42  St..  New  Yoric  17.  N.  Y. 

YES!    Rush   FREE  Money-Making   Informa- 
tion at  once.    I'm  ready  to  start. 


89 


ENJOY  A  PERMANENT, 
KBIG  PAY  CAREER  as  a 

j^\PRACTICAL 
NURSE 


EARN  AT  HOME  WHILE  LEARNING 

FREE  SAMPLE  LESSON  shows  how  eosily  you  can 
become  a  professionally  trained  practical  nurse 
by  home  study  in  a  short  time.  NO  HIGH 
SCHOOL   NEEDED.   No   age   limit. 

FOR  FREE  LESSON  and 
FULL  INFORMATION 


Post  Graduate  Hospital 
School  of  Nursing 
9D27  Auditorium  BIdg. 
Chicago  5,  Illinois 


Name. 


Address . 
City 


.State. 


.J 


CORNS 

REMOVED  BY 

Your  money  refunded 
if  not  satisfied.  The  Moss 
Company,  Rochester,  N.Y. 


also  Calluses.  Quick, 
easy,  and  economical. 
Just  rub  on.  Invisible. 
Jars,  35^  and  60  (f.  At 
drug  stores. 

MOSCO 


SOOy&CmLDS  Photo 


'  BIG  DEMAND  by  nalional  sdverlisers  loi  boys  and  girls  ptiDlos,  ill 
ages,  Irom  inlanls  and  up  lo  18  years.  S500  or  moie  PUD  il  used 
lor  adyerlising.  Send  ONE  small  pholo  lor  approval  and  FBEE  OIFIS 
oiler.  Prim  child's  and  molher's  name,  address  on  back.  Relumed  in 
Iwo  weeks.  NO  OBLIOiTION.  .^ 

J,  HOLLYWOOD  4D-PH0I05        '^      ^ 

>■      6087- HB  Sumel  Blvd.,  Hollywood  28,  (alii.      >*■ 


New  fragrant  hair  pomade  with  lanolin  will  make  gray  hairs 
DISAPPEAR  GRADUALLY  (no  sudden  change)  Because 
change  is  gradual  your  friends  in  a  few  weeks  will  never  re- 
member thai  you  ever  had  gray  hair.  Used  like  a  hairdressing 
Lasting  NATURAL  LOOK  .  will  not  streak  or  rub  off  Good 
for  men  &  women. 

eneAIAI  ArreDI  Return  this  ad  with  SI  and  receive 
SPECIAL   OrrEn:     .      ,egular     S2  00    jar     prepaid 

LECHLER,     560.   Brcodwoy.  T5-2       .New  York 


LOOSE   FALSE  TEETH 

REIINED  AND  TIGHTENED  AT  HOME  $1.00 

NEWLY  IMPROVED  DENDEX  REL.INEB,  a 
plastic,  builds  up  (refits)  loose  upper  and 
lower  dentures.  Really  makes  them  fit  as 
they  should  without  usinff  powder.  Easily 
applied.  No  heating  required.  Brush  it  on 
and  wear  your  plates  while  it  sets.  It  ad- 
heres to  the  plates  only  and  makes  a 
comfortable,  smooth  and  durable  surface 
that  can  be  washed  and  scrubbed.  Eacti 
application  lasts  for  months.  Not  a  powder 
or  wax.  Contains  no  rubber  or  grum.  Neu- 
Sold  on  MONEY-BACK  GUARANTEE.  Not 
Proved  bv  15  years  of  Consumer  use. 
,»  loc  handling  charge  (stamps  or  coin). 
Dendex  Company,  Dept.  77-E 
2024  West  6th  St.,  los  Angeles  5,  Calit. 


tral  pink  color 
£old  In  stores. 
send     >1     P'u 


90 


TROPISAN 

New  Hope  for  CRUSTS,  SCALES 
No  Messy  Oils -Simple,  Easy,  SAFE  TABLET! 

Say  goodbye  to  smelly,  greasy  oils  and  salves. 
TROPISAN,  newly  discovered  medical  tablet,  gives 
welcome  relief  from  itchy  scales,  patches  and 
other  external  symptoms  of  Psoriasis.  TROPISAN 
strikes  at  the  internal  source — not  just  the  surface 
symptoms.  Absolutely  safe,  fast,  easy  to  take.  No 
mess,  no  fuss,  no  unsightly  bandages  to  mar  work 
or  play.  TROPISAN — the  proven  "effective  treat- 
ment." Every  reported  case  stated  that  Tropisan 
relieved  symptoms  to  some  degree  with  continuous 
use.  Send  $1.00  today  for  Trial  Offer.  Address, 
TROPISAN  DRUG  CO..  Dept.  TSW-1 
31  Waal  47th  St.,  New  York  36,  N.Y. 


phoned,  and  learned  that  she  was  acting  as 
foster  mother  to  about  fourteen  children. 
"Is  there  any  adoptable  boy  of  about  six 
among  them?"  he  asked. 

She  said  she  did  have  such  a  boy,  but 
that  he  was  quite  ill  with  rickets.  "That's 
all  right,"  said  Roy.  "Please  bring  him." 
Sandy  was  a  wonderful  little  boy,  tow- 
headed,  shy,  and  full  of  affection  for 
others.  Both  Roy  and  Dale  responded  im- 
mediately to  Sandy's  appeal. 

"But,  knowing  Sandy  had  rickets  and 
that  his  coordination  wasn't  perfect, 
weren't  you  frightened  to  adopt  him?" 
Dale  and  Roy  were  asked. 

"No,"  said  Dale.  "Not  after  Robin.  You 
see,  there  was  something  that  could  be 
done  about  everything  that  was  wrong 
with  Sandy.  We  considered  ourselves  lucky 
to  be  able  to  get  a  boy  for  whom  these 
things  could  be  done." 

And  Roy  said,  "Anybody  would  take  a 
kid  who's  100  percent.  Sandy  had  a  couple 
of  strikes  against  him.  Maybe  some  people 
would  have  refused  to  take  him,  because 
of  those.  That  was  all  the  more  reason  why 
we  ought  to  take  him  home." 

"We  made  one  bad  mistake,"  confessed 
Dale.  "I'd  often  talked  to  Dusty  about 
some  day  getting  a  brother  for  him.  But 
I  failed  to  warn  him  that  we  were  on  the 
way  home  with  one.  It  was  one  thing  to 
talk  about  a  brother,  but  another  thing  to 
accept  him  when  he  came. 

"Sandy  was  too  much  of  a  surprise.  We 
should  have  told  Dusty  specifically  that 
we  were  bringing  home  his  brother." 

At  first.  Dusty  resented  Sandy  terribly. 
The  idea  of  sharing  his  toys  with  this  new 
little  stranger  was  abhorrent  to  him,  as  it 
would  have  been  to  most  children.  Roy 
explained  to  Dusty  that  Sandy  was  like  a 
little  colt,  who  needs  "gentling."  He  said, 
"After  all,  you  want  to  be  a  rancher.  With 
yoiir  interest  in  ranching,  you  are  the  one 
who'll  know  best  how  to  handle  Sandy." 
That  did  it.  When  Dusty  discovered  that 
Sandy  really  loved  him,  not  just  his  toys, 
he  was  completely  won  over. 

A  few  years  ago,  the  Rogers  family  had 
to  face  one  of  its  most  difficult  problems. 
While  on  a  good -will  tour  abroad.  Dale 
and  Roy  were  enchanted  with  the  singing 
of  a  young  Scottish  lass,  Marion.  She's 
very  pretty,  too,  with  light  brown  hair  Eind 
blue  eyes.  Marion  is  fifteen,  about  a  year 
younger  than  Cheryl. 

Roy  and  Dale  discovered  that  she  was 
eager  to  come  to  America,  and  they  ob- 
tained permission  to  bring  her  to  this 
country  as  their  ward. 

Now,  the  other  children  had  all  entered 
the  Rogers  household  while  very  young 
and  pliable.  Marion  was  accustomed  to 
doing  things  her  own  way,  and  she  was 
quite  bewildered  at  first  by  American 
ways. 

When  the  children  all  sat  down  at  the 
big  family  maple  table  with  the  lazy- 
Susan  in  the  center,  Marion  sat  with  them, 
of  course.  But,  when  they  started  to  eat, 
she  followed  the  European  rules.  Startled, 
the  children  watched  her.  Marion  used  a 
knife  and  fork  differently  from  the  way 
they'd  been  taught. 

Roy  and  Dale  quickly  realized  that  either 
the  children  would  all  copy  Marion — and 
then  probably  be  criticized  for  it — or 
Marion  would  have  to  follow  the  American 
rules  for  table  etiquette.  It  wasn't  easy  for 
Marion  to  change  the  habits  of  a  lifetime, 
but  she  did. 

Today,  the  Roy  Rogers  family — even 
though  it's  an  international  family — runs 
as  smoothly  as  any  typical  American 
family.  Perhaps  more  smoothly,  because, 
guided  by  prayer,  Roy  and  Dale  are  al- 
ways there,  ready  to  help  the  children 
solve  their  problems. 

Television,  for  instance.  Th-;  yovmgsters 
almost   came   to   blows   one   day,   because 


they  all  wanted  to  watch  TV  in  the  living 
room.  But  the  girls  wanted  to  watch  a 
dramatic  show;  the  boys  wanted  to  see  a 
Western.  So  every  time  the  girls  twirled 
the  dial  to  their  favorite  program,  one  of 
the  boys  twirled  again  to  his! 

When  Roy  came  into  the  room  to  find 
out  what  all  the  shouting  was  about,  the 
children  looked  like  vengeful  little  angels, 
each  eager  to  win  his  point.  He  had  to 
appeal  to  "Mama"  for  help.  Mama  ruled 
that  the  girls  would  have  to  watch  the  TV 
set  in  another  room.  Then  Mama  sat  down 
and  made  out  a  schedule,  indicating  just 
which  set  was  to  be  used  by  whom,  and 
at  what  hours.  She  made  several  carbon 
copies  of  this  proclamation,  and  one  was 
given  each  child. 

Since  then — no  arguments  about  tele- 
vision! 

Though  most  of  us  would  consider  the 
Rogers  family  wealthy,  they  don't  spoil  the 
children.  The  girls  are  taught  to  alter  their 
own  dresses,  starting  with  such  simple 
projects  as  turning  up  the  herr^g.  And  each 
does  her  share  in  caring  for  the  others. 
Cheryl  dresses  Dodie  and  Debbie  after 
their  naps,  straightens  their  beds  and,  after 
dinner,  brushes  their  teeth  and  hears  their 
prayers.  Linda  dresses  them  in  the  morn- 
ing. Marion  coaches  Sandy  with  his  home- 
work. 

Roy  loves  to  take  the  boys  out  fishing — 
the  girls,  too,  when  they  feel  like  going 
— and  he  likes  to  explain  the  intricacies  of 
home  craftsmanship  to  them  in  his  work- 
shop. He  has  also  tried,  though  not  with 
too  much  success,  to  teach  the  boys  how 
to  milk  the  cows  on  the  ranch. 

On  a  note  of  faith,  and  on  a  note  of 
love.  Dale  and  Roy  run  the  Rogers  family, 
made  up  of  so  many  seemingly  discordant 
elements,  so  that  harmony  results.  As  they 
sit  before  the  big  maple  table  where  the 
family  eats,  each  child  says  a  prayer. 
Nothing  mechanical;  nothing  stilted.  Just 
what's  in  their  hearts. 

When  Dodie  was  waiting  for  Debbie  to 
come  from  across  the  ocean,  she  prayed, 
"God  make  that  man  bring  my  little  sister 
quick.  And  thank  you,  God,  for  my  toys 
and  for  this  house  and  for  food." 

Linda  said,  "Thank  you,  God,  for  Mom 
and  Daddy,  my  sisters  and  brothers,  and 
thank  you  to  make  me  a  nurse."  (She  saw 
her  little  friend,  the  late  Nancy  Hamilton, 
smilingly  face  up  to  forty  operations.  And 
she  wants  to  be  a  nurse,  to  make  things 
easier  for  other  children  who  have  to 
suffer — and  for  grown-ups,  too,  afflicted 
with  pain.) 

The  boys  love  to  thank  God  for  outings, 
excursions,  and  for  the  fun  they  have 
playing  together  or  with  their  father. 

Dale  and  Roy  have  some  wonderful  ideas 
about  bringing  up  children.  "I  never  tell 
the  children  that  they  should  obey  us  'just 
because,' "  Dale  explained.  "You  can't  tell 
a  child,  either,  'Benefit  by  my  experience,' 
because  that  doesn't  work.  They  want  to 
try  their  own  wings. 

"It's  best  to  instruct  them  under  God.  I 
teach  them  not  to  obey  me  for  my  sake, 
but  for  His  sake.  I  tell  them  that  Roy  and 
I  are  just  caretakers  for  Him,  guarding 
His  precious  ones.  That  way,  children  are 
not  so  rebellious." 

With  such  a  philosophy,  it  is  little  won- 
der that  the  Rogers  family  is  a  supremely 
happy  one. 


Watch  for 

MARCH  TV  RADIO  MIRROR 

on  sale  February  5 

My  Friend,  Jackie  Gleason 


(Continued  from  page  39) 
•n  common:  a  love  of  Dixieland  music,  the 
vill  to  laugh,  an  enthusiasm  for  sports, 
?nd  a  storehouse  of  memories  of  "the  busi- 
ness"— from  vaudeville,  night  clubs,  Broad- 
way, Hollywood.  We  had  fine  jaw-sessions 
on  the  air.  One  night,  after  a  long  session, 
we  put  on  a  record  and  sat  down  in  the 
studio  to  talk  privately  about  our  ambi- 
tions. It  was  about  four  A.M.  Even  the 
light  bulb  looked  tired.  Jackie  reached 
across,  patted  my  knee  and  said,  "You 
got  class,  Li'l  Abner.  Someday  I'm  going 
to  be  on  the  top  and  I'll  remember  you." 

And  he  remembered. 

Jackie's  loyalty  to  friends  is  unsur- 
passed. I'm  not  going  to  tell  you  what  he's 
done  for  others.  That's  their  business.  I 
will  tell  you  a  little  of  what  he's  done 
for  me. 

Jackie  really  began  to  go  when  the 
Cavalcade  Of  Stars  show  clicked  at  Du 
Mont.  But  it  wasn't  Jackie's  own  show.  He 
was  working  for  Du  Mont.  When  Jackie 
moved  over  to  CBS,  it  was  all  his  baby, 
from  station  break  to  station  break.  That's 
when  he  phoned  me  and  said  I  was  to  be 
his  announcer.  I  was  already  at  work  at 
NBC  on  Today,  so  Jackie's  decision  and 
my  decision  didn't  set  well  with  the  brass 
at  NBC  or  CBS. 

The  brass  at  CBS  pleaded  with  Jackie 
to  take  on  one  of  their  own  annovmcers. 
They  pointed  out  that  it  was  standard 
procedure  to  give  the  boys  at  home  a 
break. 

"At  least  audition  our  annoimcers,'!  they 
begged. 

"Sure,  okay,  pal,"  Jackie  finally  said. 
"I'll  audition  each  one  of  them  complete 
with  cameras,  lights,  etcetera.  But,  after 
it's  all  over,  I'll  still  take  LescouUe." 

I  could  give  innumerable  concrete 
examples  of  how  Jackie  stands  behind  a 
friend.  And  what  better  way  is  there  to 
evaluate  any  human  being  than  by  his 
relationship  to  others?  Jackie  is  noted  for 
generosity,  friendliness,  his  awareness  and 
consideration  of  others.  And  that  brings 
up  another  sore  subject.  Once  in  a  while, 
I  read  in  Broadway  columns  that  he  is  a 
"tyrant  in  rehearsal."  This  again  is  some- 
thing that  makes  me  see  red. 

First,  I  can  state  unequivocally  that,  in 
three  and  a  half  years,  I've  never  heard 
him  yell  at  anyone  in  the  theater.  And 
yet  there  is  no  other  comedian  in  the 
business  who  plans  and  directs  a  rehearsal 
like  Jackie.  He  doesn't  begin  a  week  be- 
fore the  show,  not  even  three  days  before 
the  show.  Rehearsals  begin  Saturday,  the 
day  of  the  show,  and  there  is  one  run- 
through.  The  famous  comedy  skits  seldom 
are  rehearsed  more  than  once. 

Most  rehearsals  are  picnics.  Jackie  has 
laughs  for  the  cast  as  well  as  the  TV 
audience.  His  is  an  easy  relationship.  With 
me  or  Art  Carney,  whom  he  knows  well, 
he  may  make  a  familiar  joke.  If  I  get 
snarled  in  my  lines,  he  picks  up  a  prop 
phone  and  says,  "Get  me  that  announcer 
who  works  for  Godfrey."  But,  with  some- 
one new  or  strange  to  the  show,  there  is 
no  kidding  that  might  be  misinterpreted. 
A  show  girl  with  her  first  lines  to  read, 
or  a  new  and  nervous  commercial  an- 
nouncer, gets  Jackie's  undivided  attention 
and  help  until  he  or  she  is  at  ease. 

And  talk  about  consideration.  Well,  I've 
seen  Jackie  argue  with  June  Taylor  about 
rehearsing.  Perhaps  the  dancers  haven't 
quite  perfected  their  routine.  Jime  wants 
to  work  over  it  again.  Jackie  will  battle 
her.  "The  kids  are  tired,"  he  may  insist. 
'It'll  work  out  all  right  tonight.  Let's 
give  them  a  rest."  (It's  not  that  June  is  a 
tyrant,  either,  but  the  appearance  of  the 
dancers  is  her  responsibility.) 


Incidentally,  Jackie  achieves  a  quick 
friendliness  with  people  through  his  use 
of  nicknames.  He  has  new  names  for 
almost  everyone.  Nine  years  ago — at  just 
about  our  first  meeting — I  became  "Li'l 
Abner."  The  program  director,  Frank 
Satenstein,  he  calls  "The  Panther."  My 
manager,  Lee  Meyers,  is  "Diamond." 
Jackie  comes  on  stage  and  calls  out,  "How's 
the  Clam  today?"  He's  talking  to  one  of 
June  Taylor's  dancers.  He  directs,  "Hey, 
Mighty  Mouse,  face  this  way  a  little  more." 
He's  talking  to  one  of  the  glamorous 
Portrettes. 

One  other  thing  about  Jackie  is  that  he 
does  not  hog  laughs.  His  years  of  experi- 
ence in  comedy  are  liberally  bestowed  on 
supporting  members  of  the  cast.  There'll 
be  a  run-through  of  a  skit,  and  suddenly 
he'll  stop  Art  Carney  and  say,  "When  you 
come  away  from  the  stove,  why  don't  you 
do  that  funny  walk  of  yours?"  Or  he'll 
show  Audrey  Meadows  a  bit  that  will  get 
her  an  extra  laugh. 

A  comedian's  life  is  making  people  laugh 
and  making  them  happy.  With  most 
comedians,  the  fun  is  over  when  the  show 
ends.  Not  with  Jackie.  He  likes  to  see 
his  friends  look  good  and  he  likes  to  see 
them  enjoying  themselves.  Maybe  that's 
why  he's  such  a  party-giver.  He  has  at 
least  five  parties  a  season  for  his  friends 
and  their  wives  or  husbands.  The  Christ- 
mas party  is  a  ball.  Everyone  connected 
with  the  show  comes — musicians,  stage 
crew,  dancers — and  they  bring  along  the 
family. 

I  remember  one  party  at  Jackie's  apart- 
ment that  I  wasn't  invited  to  and  uninten- 
tionally interrupted.  A  photographer 
Wcinted  shots  of  Jackie  and  me  together. 
I  phoned  Jackie  at  his  apartment.  The 
noise  over  the  phone  was  easily  identified 
as  that  of  a  good  time,  but  Jackie  said, 
"Well,  come  on  up,  anyway,  and  we'll 
shoot  the  pictures  quick."  It  was  a  party 
all  right.  Just  Jackie  and  thirty  girls.  He 
was  giving  his  daughter  Linda,  who  was 
celebrating  her  tenth  birthday,  a  oarty 
for  her  and  her  friends.  And  he  was  do- 
ing everything.  He  was  butler,  waiter, 
emcee,  comedian.  The  kids  were  having 
the  time  of  their  Uves. 

One  of  the  nicest  things  about  Jackie  is 
his  trust  in  people.  Once  you  become  a 
friend  of  Jackie's  it  is  hard  to  shake  his 
faith.  I  think  you'd  have'  to  cut  his  heart 
out  and  literally  hand  it  to  him,  before 
he  believed  he  was  deceived.  Once  he  de- 
cides you've  got  "class,"  you'd  better  have 
it.  His  professional  attitude  is  the  same. 
Once  he  has  decided  you're  a  pro,  you'd 
better  behave  like  one.  Jackie  may  rewrite 
a  script  at  six  P.M.,  the  evening  of  the 
show.  At  show  time,  Carney  and  Audrey 
Meadows  and  Joyce  Randolph,  or  who- 
ever else  is  in  the  script,  are  expected  to 
know  their  parts  just  as  Jackie  will.  And 
I  think  one  of  the  reasons  the  impossible 
is  done  is  because  Jack  lets  you  know 
that  he  has  that  faith  in  you. 

I  don't  mean  to  over- emphasize  my 
job,  but  I'm  talking  about  myself  and  my 
relationship  with  Jackie,  so  I'll  tell  you 
about  the  time  I  pulled  a  king-sized 
blooper.  It  was  the  beginning  of  the  show. 
I  was  introducing  the  program,  and  I 
concluded  with:  "Our  guest  star  tonight 
is  the  great  Jane  Froman." 

When  I  came  off  the  stage,  producer 
Jack  Hurdle  stared  at  me  as  if  I  had  just 
punched  my  grandmother  in  the  nose. 

"Do  you  know  what  you  said?" 

"No." 

"You  said,  'the  great  Jane  Froman.' " 

"No.  I  couldn't  have." 

"You  did." 

Well,  I  felt  terrible — because  Jane  Fro- 
man  wasn't   anywhere   near   the   theater. 


«:»»!!SB»^«^';a2'>£^^^n?f'^'' 


Make85«^^I^^Boxof 

'Cut  flowers" 

EVERYDAY  CARDS 


See  these  exciting  dif- 
ferent greeting  cards 
open  up  like  floral 
bouquets .  Show  them 
and  you'll  be  de- 
lighted with  the  big 
money  you  make 
in  spare  time.  As- 
sortment for  Birthdays  and" 
other  occasions  pays  you  the 
qtuckest  $85  you  can  imagine!^ 
You  don't  need  any  experience.^ 

How  Your  Earnings  Grow 

Let  fiiends  choose  from  Creative'a 
complete  line  of  140  new  Greeting 
Card  Assortments  and  Gift  Items 
for  year  'round  occasions.  Beauti- 
ful TALL  designs  at  21  for  $1  up; 
Magic  Word  Cards;  Kiddie  Toy 
Cards;  chanoingHtimorous  Cards; 
many  clever,  low-priced  Gifts. 

Bonus  Gifts  Worth  $10-$100 

Besides  big  cash  profits,  we  give 
you  valuable  Gift  BONUSES:  fa- 
mous brand  appliances  and  gifts 
worth  $10  to  $100.  Organizations 
give  them  as  prizes — fill  their  treas- 
viries  with  the  big  cash  profits! 

Send  Your  Name  for  Samples 

Send  no.  money.  We'll  start  you 
earning  with  FREE  Stationery 
Samples  plus  popular  assortments 
on  approvaL  Extra!  $1.25  "Hot 
Plate"  Set  FREE  for  prompt 
faction.  Send  coupon  TODAY  1 

iCREATlYE  CARD^OMPANY 

Depl.  196-F 
[Chicago  23,  III.    '(JT  "%|5=^| 


MAIL  NOW 
FOR  SAMPLES! 


CREATIVE  CARD  CO.,  Depf.  196-F  \  'iWEEm 
4401  Cermok  Road,  Chicago  23,  III.  V'HOT  PLATE" 
Please  send  money-making  sample  outfit  on  \Salt  &  Pepper 
approval.  Include  J1.25  "Hot  Plate"  Set  as  my  \  c.i.  „:„._ 
FREE  Gift  for  being  prompt  \       ,      ^." 

Name \    ^°'  "^'"8 

Address \  P™'"Pt- 

City State \ 


Rip  Van  Winkle 
Couldn't  Sleep  with 
Nagging  Backache 

Now  I  You  can  get  the  fast  relief  you  need  from 
nagging  backache,  headache  and  muscular  aches 
and  pains  that  often  cause  restless  nights  and  mis- 
erable tired-out  feelings.  When  these  discomforts 
come  on  with  over-exertion  or  stress  and  strain  — 
you  want  relief— want  it  fast !  Another  disturbance 
may  be  mild  bladder  irritation  following  wrong 
food  and  drink  — often  setting  up  a  restless  un- 
comfortable feeling. 

For  quick  relief  get  Dean's  Pills.  They  work  fast 
in  3  separate  ways  :  1.  by  speedy  pain-relieving  ac- 
tion to  ease  torment  of  nagging  backache,  head- 
aches, muscular  aches  and  pains.  2.  by  their  sooth, 
ing  effect  on  bladder  irritation.  3.  by  their  mild 
diuretic  action  tending  to  increase  output  of  the  15 
miles  of  kidney  tubes. 

Find  out  how  quickly  this  3-way  medicine  goes  to 
work.  Enjoy  a  good  night's  sleep  and  the  same  happy 
relief  millions  have  for  over  60  years.  Ask  for  new, 
large  size  and  save  money.  Get  Doan's  Pills  today  I 


91 


YOU'D  NEVER  KNOW  I  HAD 


PSORIASIS 


For  24  years  psoriasis  sufferers  have 
learned  that  Siroil  tends  to 
remove  unsightly  external 
crusts  and  scales.  If  lesions 
recur,  light  applications  of 
Siroil  help  control  them. 
Siroil  won't  stain  cloth- 
ing  or    bed    linens. 
Offered  on  2-weeks- 
satisfaction-or- 
money-refiinded 
basis. 


SIROIL 


Write  for  new 
free  booklet, 
written     by     registered 
physician.  It  answers  30 
most    asked     questions 
about  psoriasis. 

AT  ALL  DRUG  STORES 

Send  for  new  free  booklet,  written  by  physician. 

P  SIROIL  LABORATORIES,  INC.  "j 

I  Dept.  IVI-85  Santa  Monica,  Calif.  | 

I  Please  send  me  your  new  free  booklet  on  PSORIASIS.  ■ 


j  ADDR] 
•  CITY- 


Please  Print 


;,on 00    SONGWRITERS 

?  I  W  W  •  TO  THE  WRITiR  OF  BEST  SONG  SELEOED   EACH  MONTH 


S«nd  songs,poems.Record5,copies  fui 

■A-  HOUYWOOD  TUMESMITHS 


ihed.Let  us  help  you  be  a  success. 

1609  VitU  Del  Mar,  DepLD. 
HI  Hollywoad  2B.  California 


Housewife  Ends  Her  Secret  Yearnings, 
Discovers  Easy  Spare-Time  Earnings! 

"It's  a  pleasure  to  make  extra  money  the  Southern  way", 
Bays  Mrs.  W.  Peterson  of  Tennessee.  And  she  should  know. 
This  lady  earned  over  $276.00  in  her  spare  time  alone.  YOU 
can  do  it,  just  as  easily!  Show  new  and  different  SOUTHERN 
Greeting:  Cards,  Gifts  to  your  friends.  Handy  assortments  of 
21  birthday,  get-well  and  other  cards  sell  on  sight.  You  make 
np  to  SOc  on  each  $1  box  of  greetings.  No  experience  needed. 
Send  now  for  money-making  outfit  and  samples  on  approval. 

SOUTHERN  GREaiNGS,478N.Hollywood,Dept.T-31,Memphls12Jenn. 


^500  yZChilds  Photo 


Yes,  up  to  $S00  and  more  PAID  if  used  for 
TV.  Calendar  or  Magazine  Ads.  YOUR  CHILD 
has  same  opportunity.  Send  CI4E  small  photo 
for  approval.  Print,  child's  and  mother's  name 
and  address  on  back.  Returned  in  2  weeks 
with  report.  (Ages  6  mo.  to  IS  yrs.) 

NO  OBLICATION.  (Established  1946) 
HOLLYWOOD  SPOTLITE,  Dept.  AB 
8346  Beverly  Blvd.,   Hollywood,  Calif. 


LEG   SUFFERERS 


FREE 

BOOKLET 


^^r  /  ■  Why  continue  to  suffer  without  attempt- 
^B  /  B  lug  to  do  sometliliig?  Write  today  for  New 
^M  1  ■  BooMet^"THELIEPE  METHODS  FOR 
^H  k  ■  HOME  USE."  It  tells  about  Varicose 
^V  1^  ^1  Ulcers  and  Open  Leg  Sores.  Llepe  Methods 
^H^^B^H  used  while  you  walk.  More  than  60  years  ol 
^BflHB  success.  Praised  and  en- 
dorsed by  multitudes. 
IIEPE  METHODS,  3250  N.Green  Bay  Ave. 
Dept  B-25,    IWilwaukeo  12,  Wisconsin! 


LEARN    AT    HOME 

Practical  nurses  are  needed  in  every 
community . . .  doctors  rely  on  them  . . . 
patients  appreciate  their  cheerful,  ex- 
pert   care.    You    can    learn    practical 
nursing  at  home  in  spare  time.  Course 
supervised  by  doctor.  58th  year.  Earn 
while  learning.    High   school  not  re- 
quired.  Men.   women,    18  to   60.    Trial   plan.    Write  nowl 
CHICAGO  SCHOOL  OF   NURSING 
Dept.  22,  25  East  Jackson  Blvd.,  Chicago  4,   ill. 
Please  send  free  booklet  and  16  sample  lesson  pages. 

Vixme 

Citv 


-State- 


-Aae- 


$\.25  va\ue 
-it's  YO"" 


Sunshine's  Exclusive 


STUDIO  ASSORTMENT 


Have  Fun— Earn  EXTRA  CASH! 

Get  your  FREE  box  today!  Sunshine 
will  send  the  scintillating  Studio  As- 
sortment   (16   gay   designs)    free,   and 
other   NEW  tastefully   designed   crea- 
tions on  approval.   See  how  the  Sun- 
shine Plan  can  reward  you  with  $3- $4 
or  more  every  hour  when  friends  and 
neighbors  sec  these  and  other  new  and 
,  beautiful  Sunshine  cards  ...  at  a»- 
tonishingly  low  prices.  Write  for  your 
^^S«»!^wSr5j^  FKEE  box — now! 
/^^EuonoMedby^SUNSHINE   FUND   RAISING   PLAN: 
iGoodHoaMlueplne  J^  successful  plan  for  Clubs,  Churches. 
^•..  L»y  Schools.  Write  for  free  folder. 

SUNSHINE  ART  STUDIOS,  Inc.  Dept.  TS-2 

92         Springfield  T,  Mass.  Pasadena  1,  Calif. 


V 


Our  guest  that  night  was  Jane  Pickens, 
and  that  is  an  awful  thing  to  do  to  a 
grand  gal  like  Jane  Pickens.  So  I  himted 
up  Jackie  and  told  him  what  happened 
and  he  said  that  I  wasn't  to  worry  about 
it,  but  he  sounded  curt.  Then  the  second 
hitch  came  when  something  went  wrong 
backstage.  I  was  told  to  go  out  and  ad  lib 
about  the  Red  Cross.  I  did  for  a  minute. 
When  Jane  Pickens  was  due  to  sing, 
Jackie  came  on  and  covered  beautifully 
for  me.  He  said,  "I  want  to  tell  you  some- 
thing. We've  got  a  person  on  this  show 
who's  letter-perfect,  and  that's  something 
no  one  can  stand.  He  never  makes  a 
mistake.  It's  obnoxioiis.  He's  always  been 
right.  Until  tonight — and  tonight  he  pulled 
a  beaut.  Welcome  to  the  club,  Jack  Les- 
coulie,  for  there  are  two  great  Janes,  and 
tonight  we  have  Jane  Pickens." 

That  wasn't  the  end  of  it,  so  far  as  I  was 
concerned.  Jackie  had  been  curt,  and  I 
had  forgotten  this  is  usually  the  case  while 
the  show  is  on  the  air.  Then  Jackie  is  aU 
business,  wholly  occupied  with  the  per- 
formance. Anyway,  I  figured  I'd  pulled  a 
pretty  big  boner  and,  when  a  letter  arrived 
Tuesday  from  Jackie's  office,  I  figured, 
This  is  it.  The  ax  finally  fell.  But  the 
letter  didn't  mention  the  Pickens  incident. 
Jackie  wrote  that  he  had  seen  the  kine- 
scope of  the  show  and  wanted  to  tell  me 
the  Red  Cross  bit  was  one  of  the  finest 
pieces  of  ad-libbing  he'd  ever  seen. 

Jackie  has  heart  and  Jackie  remembers. 
He  remembers  his  own  childhood  and  the 
poverty.  He  remembers  that  talent  isn't 
much  good  without  a  little  luck.  He 
remembers  there  were  years  when  people 
thought  he  was  very,  very  funny  (and 
he  was)  but  he  wasn't  getting  anywhere. 
Guts  and  genius  aren't  quite  enough. 
Jackie  had  been  in  movies,  on  the  stage, 
in  night  clubs  and  vaudeville,  but  it  took 
the  miracle  of  television  to  make  him  a 
great  name. 

TV  has  worked  miracles  for  many  of 
us.  I  was  nothing  to  brag  about,  before 
TV.  Actually,  I  started  in  show  business 
long  before  Jackie.  My  mother  was  an 
actress.  Her  name  was  Daisy  Teazle.  I 
was  seven  when  she  pushed  me  out  on  a 
vaudeville  stage.  We  lived  in  California — 
I  was  born  in  Sacramento.  In  high  school, 
I  worked  as  a  disc  jockey  at  Station  KGFJ 
in  Los  Angeles.  I  studied  acting  and  music. 
I  remember  the  first  time  I  had  top 
billing,  as  an  orchestra  leader,  and  that 
was  at  the  Santa  Barbara  "Theater  in 
Los  Angeles. 

I  stuciied  at  Los  Angeles  City  College. 
Played  football  and  ran  the  half  mile, 
too.  I  won  a  scholarship  at  the  Pasadena 
Playhouse  for  further  study  in  acting.  I 
won  that  reciting  Shakespeare.  I  know  a 
lot  of  Shakespeare.  Got  that  from  my 
father.  I  was  on  the  stage  and  in  night 
clubs,  and  on  the  radio,  but  it  wasn't  much 
of  anything.  If  you  have  a  good  memory 
and  lived  on  the  Pacific  Coast,  you  may 
remember  a  radio  show  called  The  Grouch 
Cluh.  That  was  mine.  And,  if  you  Uve 
around  New  York,  you  may  remember  an 
early  morning  show  I  did  with  Gene  Ray- 
burn  called  the  Jack  And  Gene  Show.  As  a 
network  announcer,  I  worked  with  Benny, 
Cantor,  Hope,  Jessel,  Berle,  Fred  AUen,  Joe 
Penner  and  maybe  a  couple  more  stars. 

And,  by  1950,  in  spite  of  a  lot  of 
experience  in  various  media,  I  was  nothing. 
That's  show  business.  I  had  no  job.  No 
offer  as  an  entertainer.  When  I  had  the 
oppportunity  to  go  over  to  CBS  as  a 
producer  with  a  desk,  regular  hours  and 
security,  I  took  it.  It  was  like  Shangri-La 
for  myself  and  my  family. 

I'll  tell  you  just  a  bit  about  the  family, 
since  I  think  that  I'm  a  very  lucky  man. 
My  parents  live  in  Los  Angeles.  My 
brother  runs  a  ranch  in  California.  My 
sister,    Sylvia   Lescoulie,    is    on   television 


in  Santa  Barbara.  I  have  two  children.  A 
little    boy.    Buddy,    who    is    a    toddler,    a 
year  and  a  half  old — and  a  little  girl  Linda,    ' 
who  is  three,  blonde,  blue-eyed,  with  a 
freckle  on  the  tip  of  her  nose. 

My  wife,  Bridie,  is  my  particular  pride. 
It  was  better  than  thirteen  years  ago  that 
we   met  for   the   first   time.   She   was   a 
waitress,  a  pert  redhead  with  green  eyes.    ' 
I  went  in  for  breakfast  with  a  musician    | 
friend  of  mine  who  needed  a  shave.  He    I 
knew    Bridie    and    she   kidded    about   his 
beard.  I  said,  "Next  time  he  comes  in,  I'll 
have  him  put  on  his  tuxedo."   She   said 
stiffly,    "I    wasn't    talking    to    you."    She  ; 
thought  I  was   a  wise   guy — and   it  was  \ 
eight  months  before  she  gave  me  a  date.  : 
Three  months  after  our  first  date,  we  were 
married. 

She's  a  woman  who  is  warm  and  loyal.  ' 
She  has  a  tremendous  sense  of  himior  and 
tremendous  plUck.  She's  been  with  me 
through  some  of  the  worst  years  as  well 
as  the  best — and  if  I  lost  everything 
tomorrow  and  couldn't  get  a  job,  she'd  be 
the  same.  Nevertheless,  I  know  she  was 
pleased  when  I  got  a  job  with  regular 
hours.  And  when,  out  of  nowhere,  after 
a  year  of  heaven,  came  the  offer  to  go  on 
Today  with  Garroway,  Bridie  and  I  really 
talked  it  over.  For  hours.  It  could  be  the 
rat  race,  all  over.  Crazy  hoxurs  again.  A 
new  show  that  could  flop,  and  again  I'd 
be  out  of  work.  Or  it  could  be  the  big 
break.  We  decided  to  try  it.  And  TV  was 
my  big  break. 

Now  things  are  going  my  way.  I  have 
four  big  jobs — with  Gleason,  with  Today, 
as  official  announcer  for  Buick,  and  as 
spokesman  for  Phillies  on  my  own  sport 
show.  I  am  very  pleased  with  the  latter, 
Meet  The  Champions,  because  it  is  my 
idea  of  a  good  sport  show — a  kind  of 
Meet  The  Press  of  the  sports  world, 
where  controversial  questions  are  asked. 
I've  always  liked  reporting  sports  and 
that  accounts,  too,  for  my  being  sports 
editor  on  Today.  I  was  lucky  to  get  my 
start  in  TV  with  Garroway.  He  taught  me 
a  lot  that  first  year.  That's  where  I  figure 
I  earned  my  Ph.D.  in  TV.  And  Dave  is  a 
wonderful  guy.  He  not  only  talks  peace 
but  lives  peace.  I've  never  had  an  argu- 
ment with  him.  ' 

But  I've  had  one  argument  with  Jackie 
Gleason — and  he  is  oxir  subject  for  today. 
I    don't    remember    the    reason    for    the 
argument.  It  was  very  late.  We  were  both  . 
tired.    We   were    old    friends.    Maybe    we  1 
had  the  right  to  flare  up.  We  were  in  a  j 
restaurant,  and  I  walked  out.  > ' 

The  next  morning,  at  eight  A.M.,  the  ' 
phone  rang  and  a  familiar  voice  said,  "Is 
this  the  home  of  dear  John  P.  Lescoulie?" 

"It  is." 

"This  is  The  Greatest,"  said  the  voice. 

I  said,  "Well,  then  this  must  be  Jackie 
Gleason." 

He  roared  and  said,  "K  you'd  answered 
Milton  Berle,  you'd  have  been  fired." 

It  takes  a  big  man,  a  full-sized  human 
being,  to  make  the  first  move  after  a  hot 
argixment.  Jackie  had  made  the  move 
even  though  it  meant  getting  me  out  of 
bed  on  the  only  morning  of  the  week  I 
could  sleep.  So  I  see  red  when  a  reporter 
takes  a  swipe  at  Jackie.  I  know  what 
makes  an  occasional  coliminist  do  a  thing 
Uke  that.  Maybe  his  feelings  get  hurt.  He 
thinks  he's  been  slighted  or  crossed  up. 
I've  seen  a  friend  of  Jackie's  come  back- 
stage and  talk  over  an  idea.  It  sounds  good 
and  Jackie  agrees  to  it.  A  reporter  stand- 
ing by  hears  the  conversation  and  breaks 
tiie  story.  Next  day,  a  couple  of  other 
newspaper  guys  may  call  Jackie  and 
complain— "Why  didn't  you  tell  me  first? 
So,  after  that,  instead  of  tossing  posies, 
they're  pitching  rivets. 

Well,  I  can't  stop  that,  but  don't  knock 
Jackie  to  me.  This  is  a  great  human  being. 


That's  My  Steve! 


(Continued  from  page  26) 

Sunday  nights,  after  Steve's  show,  we 
always  go  out  to  dinner.  But  Steve  pre- 
fers coming  home  to  eating  in  restaurants, 
so  we  have  a  6:30  dinner  at  home,  the 
other  six  nights  of  the  week.  When  Steve 
gets  in  at  5  or  5:30,  I  make  him  take  a 
little  nap.  While  he  is  showering  after  his 
nap,  I  ask  him  what  suit  he  wants  to  wear. 
He  tells  me,  and  I  then  valet  him  (just 
call  me  "Meadows!")  by  laying  out  the 
suit — complete  with  shirt,  socks,  tie  and 
handkerchief.  We  then  have  dinner  and, 
at  9  or  9:30,  depending  on  when  he  must 
be  at  the  theater,  I  push  him  out  the  front 
door  in  good  time  to  be  on  time. 

When  he  is  tired  (and  I  employ  a  kind 
of  tenth  sense  about  judging  that) ,  I  make 
a  5:30  appointment  for  him,  here  .at  home, 
with  his  masseur.  Likely  as  not,  this  will 
be  the  day  Steve  won't  turn  up  until  time 
to  eat  dinner  and  run! 

Whenever  he  is  going  to  California,  or 
anywhere  at  all  by  himself,  he  says,  "Here 
is  my  ticket,"  and  hands  it  to  me.  I  know 
this  means  I  am  to  take  care  of  it  and  get 
him  to  the  plane,  the  right  plane,  at  the 
right  time,  on  the  right  day.  Once,  recently, 
I  was  unable  to  go  to  the  airport  with 
him.  One  of  his  many  secretaries  (the  one 
In  Charge  of  Absent-Mindedness)  usually 
goes  with  him  when  I  can't.  But  this  time, 
he  went  alone. 

When  he  got  back  from  California,  the 
story  got  out:  With  his  ticket  in  hand,  he'd 
stood  in  line  waiting  to  have  his  luggage 
weighed  in.  "Better  hurry  with  my  lug- 
gage— ccily  five  minutes  to  get  my  plane," 
he  said,  when  his  turn  came.  "What  time 
does  your  plane  leave?"  the  weigher 
asked.  "Eleven-thirty,"  Steve  answered. 
"We  haven't  any  eleven-thirty  plane,  sir 
— may  I  see  your  ticket?"  Steve  Allen 
produced  it.  There  was  a  moment's  silence. 
Then:  "Your  ticket  is  on  Mutual,  sir. 
This  is  TWA." 

Steve  made  the  plane — and  on  time — as 
he  makes  every  television  show,  movie- 
studio  call,  recording  date,  magazine  and 
book  deadline. 

It  gives  you  pause.  .  .  . 

As  for  the  where -is -anything  depart- 
ment: "My  blue  overcoat — where  is  it?" 
he'll  call  to  me.  "In  the  hall  closet,  dear." 
Removing  his  head  from  the  innermost 
recesses  of  the  closet  into  which  he's  been 
burrowing,  he  states  categorically,  "No,  it 
isn't.  I  just  looked."  I  look— and  there,  of 
course,  it  is,  dangling  its  length. 

I  have  now  rearranged  the  hall  closet — 
as,  when  we  were  first  married — I  re- 
arranged all  his  jumbly  cupboards  and 
bureau  drawers,  got  him  a  tie-rack  and 
organized  all  his  ties  (the  greens  together, 
the  blues,  and  so  on).  I  have  also  re- 
arranged the  ice  box.  One  shelf  is  labeled: 
"You  can't  miss  it!"  On  this  shelf,  each 
and  every  item  is  right  out  in  front,  face 
to  face,  cheek  by  jowl  with  anyone  who 
opens  the  ice-box  door.  Even  so,  Steve 
still  manages  to  "miss  it" — although  not 
quite  so  often. 

An  amusing  (and  endearing)  trait  in 
Steve  is  that — in  spite  of  what  I  like  to 
think  of  as  my  efficiency  in  taking  care  of 
him  and  of  our  home — he  laughs  at  me 
more  than  at  anyone.  Calls  me  "Jaynie- 
bird,"  looks  at  me  as  a  silly  little  child, 
cute  and  funny.  .  .  . 

We're  told — and  I  believe — that  person- 
ality traits  are  formed  by  the  age  of  seven. 
Having  studied  psychiatry,  I  am  positive 
that  the  explanation  of  Steve's  absent- 
mindedness,  and  his  helplessness  about  the 
workaday  things  of  life,  is  to  be  found  in 
his  first  seven  years.  Raised  as  he  was,  dur- 
ing those  years,  partly  by  married  aunts 
and  uncles  who  didn't  have  any  children, 
Steve   filled   the   lack   in   their   lives — and 


they,  in  turn,  doted  on  him  and  waited  on 
him,  literally  hand  and  foot.  If  Steve's 
bicycle  broke  and  he  tried  to  fix  it,  an 
uncle  ran  out  and  fixed  it  for  him.  If  he 
started  to  make  himself  a  peanut- butter 
sandwich,  an  aunt  materialized  and  made 
it  for  him.  If  he  didn't  wake  up  in  time  for 
school,  he  was  waked  up.  It  was  almost  a 
"Stevie,  you  sit  down,  I'll  stand  up"  sort  of 
thing. 

Unused  to  doing  anything  of  a  practical 
nature,  all  his  life,  Steve  Allen  is  a  per- 
fect example  of  a  person  absolutely  help- 
less in  a  kitchen.  Before  I  met  Steve,  I 
never  knew  any  man  who  couldn't  boil  an 
egg.  I  know  one  now. 

What  first  attracted  Steve  to  me,  I'm 
positive,  was  my  cooking — and  the  mater- 
nal instinct  of  which  liking  to  cook  for 
one's  menfolks  is  a  part,  in  every  woman. 
I  still  remember  the  fervent,  "Wow,  yes!" 
with  which,  when  we  began  dating,  he 
accepted  my  first  invitation  to  come  to  the 
apartment  Audrey  and  I  shared,  for  a 
home-cooked  meal.  I  can  see  him  now,  sit- 
ting in  the  living  room  before  dinner,  sort 
of  pale  around  the  gills  and  asking  if  he 
might  have  "a  glass  of  tomato  juice  or 
something — I  haven't  eaten  since  last 
night!'^  After  that,  there  were  many  home- 
cooked  meals — and,  clearly,  none  too  soon! 

Not  until  after  we  were  married,  how- 
ever, did  I  realize  how  genuinely  helpless 
he  is.  The  first  time  I  wasn't  at  home  to 
get  breakfast  for  him  (I  think  I  was  at  my 
mother's),  he  said  briskly,  "Never  mind, 
I'll  get  myself  something  for  breakfast." 
What  he  got  himself,  I  discovered  later,  was 
a  piece  of  cake  and  a  Pepsi-Cola! 

When  he  asks  me,  "Can  I  get  you  a  cup 
of  tea?" — as,  being  sweet  and  considerate, 
he  sometimes  does — the  tea,  poor  darling, 
is  always  cold.  Once  when  I  was  ill — most 
inopportunely,  on  the  maid's  day  off — he 
got  me  dinner.  Brought  me  soup  into  which 
he'd  dropped  everything  in  the  kitchen. 
Tasted  good,  though. 

Steve's  stomach  is,  I  would  say,  his  last 
consideration.  Of  all  the  men  I've  ever 
known,  he  is  the  easiest  to  please  at  table. 
A  bona  fide  meat-and-potato  man,  he  can't 
bear  delicacies — caviar,  frogs'  legs,  any- 
thing like  that.  .  .  . 

In  other  household  departments,  as  in 
the  kitchen,  Steve  is  "Man  overboard!"  Be- 
fore we  were  married,  nothing  ever  got 
put  away  for  the  summer.  He  didn't  know 
there  were  such  things  as  moths — or,  if  he 
knew,  they  were  in  other  people's  apart- 
ments, not  in  his.  He  was  always  rushing 
out  to  buy  a  shirt,  having  forgotten  to  send 
out  his  laundry.  He  never  remembered  to 
get  those  important  and  very  legal  stickers 
for  his  car,  eind  drove  around  for  months, 
after  he  came  East  from  California,  with- 
out a  New  York  license. 

Makes  a  good  living,  though,  and  such  a 
sweet,  thoughtful  husband — I  say,  who 
cares  if  he  can't  cook,  can't  find  anything, 
doesn't  know  the  time  of  day?  No  one.  Cer- 
tainly not  I.  For  the  wonderful  thing  (one 
of  the  many  wonderful  things)  about 
Steve  Allen  is  that  he  is  absent-minded  and 
helpless  only  about  the  things  that  do  not 
interest  him.  And  the  things  that  do  not 
interest  him  (you  live  and  learn)  are  the 
things — and  values — that  do  not  really 
matter. 

Calendar  dates,  for  instance. 

Since  he  has  trouble  remembering  birth- 
days, one  of  his  many  secretaries  (the  one 
In  Charge  of  Absent-Mindedness)  remem- 
bers for  him.  My  last  birthday  (September 
27),  she  remembered  a  bit  late  and,  at 
5:30,  Steve  jumped  in  a  cab,  got  home  a 
little  after  6 — having  bought  me  a  most 
beautiful  matching  cigarette  case,  compact, 
and  billfold.  For  our  first  anniversary,  he 
gave  me  a  diamond  wristwatch,  delicate 
and   lovely.   For   our   second   anniversary. 


Love 

and 

Romance 

passing  you  by? 

DON'T  RUIN  YOUR  CHANCES 

because  of  unsightly  teeth.  Give  your 
teeth  the  HoUyiYoo'^  glamour  look  .  .  . 
with  lodent  No.  2.  Smoke  Smudge  and 
Surface  Stains  disappear  after  only 
a  few  brushings.  See  your  teeth  glow 
with  radiant  whiteness.  lodent  No.  2  is 
made  by  a  Dentist.  It  is  guaranteed 
to  be  safe  and  eifective  by  Good 
Housekeeping.  Get  a  tube  today  .  , . 
and  start  smiling  with  confidence. 

Remember  too  ...  your 
dentist  knows  that  diet 
and  clean  teetli  are 
the  best  decay 
stoppers. 


IDS 


^Cash  From  Qj)  Boxes 
,}    GIANT  ALL-PURPOSE 

}S^*^GREETING  CARD  Assortment 


BARGAIN  ! 
SPECIALS  I 
^$|25| 

BOXES  FOR  I 

50£| 
$gqp   I 

BOXES  FOR  I 

35^  I 


Ye3,  yoa  make  $1.25  on  every  box!  And  yon  can 
depend  on  a  fine  extra  income  all  year  from 
our  beat  sellers  for  EVERY  occasion- 
Mother's,  Father's  Day.  Valentines,  Eastern 
Star,  Secret  Pal,  etc.  Big  line  newest  SLIM 
Assortments,  Stationery,  Gifts  and  Gadgets. 

Send  For  Samples  NOW! 

While  they  last— Special  Bargains  in  factory  cIoseoatB 
cay  yon  biggest  profits  ever.  Color  Catalog's  boost 
earnings.  No  experience  needed.  Costs  oothing  to 
see.  Get  Bargain  List,  new  1967  Assortments  on  ap- 
proval and  Stationery  Portfolio  FREE  by  writing  nowl 

BOULEVARD  ART  PUBLISHERS. Dept.  632-S 
235  South  Wabash  Avenue,  Chicago  4,  Illinois 


SHEETS,  TOASTERS, 
TOWELS,  MIXERS,etc 


GIVEN  TO  YOU  FREE! 


Hundreds  of  famous,  na- 
tionally advertised  products 
to  choose  from — furniture, 
rugs,  lamps,  slip  covers,  sil- 
verware, china,  draperies. 
You  get  $50.00  —  $100.00 
and  more  in  merchandise 
just  by  being  Secretary  of  a 
Popular  Club  you  help  your 
friends  form.  It's  easy  !  It's 
fun  !  Nothing  to  sell,  noth- 
ing to  buy.  write  today. 


Topular  Club  Plan,  Dept.  K930.  Lynbrook,  N:  Y.  | 
Send  Big  FREE  276-Page  FULL-COLOR  Catalog  | 


Address.. 


J_Clty..;™..^jjj...™...-^..j^..^;^-_^..^|||j^..^t^^ 


93 


Can't  Get  Rid  of 
Dark  or  Discolored  Sl^in, 
^Freckles,SkinSpot8? 

Beautifies  SItin  WhileYou  Sleep 

Juft  follow  the  famous  Mercohzed  Wax 
fVeam  7  Nieht  Plan  to  a  whiter,  smoother, 
WelSr  s"#^Smooth  rich,  lujunous  Mer- 
coTfzed  Wax  Cream  on  ypur //«  or  arms 
iSst  before  retiring  each  mght  for  one  week 
J""  You'll- begin  to  see  results  almost 

at  once  .  .  .  lightens  dark  skin, 
blotches,  spots,  freckles  as  if  by 
magici  This  is  not  a  cover  up  cos- 
metic: Mercolized  Wax  Cream 
works  UNDER  the  skin  surface. 

— '  Beautiful  women  have  used  this 

time -tested  plan  for  over  40  years  "-yoaU 
love  it's  fast,  sure,  longer  lasting  results ! 
Mercolized  Wax  Cream  is  sold  on  WOfogaar 
Tntee  or  money  back.    Start  nsing  it  now! 

MERCOLIZED  WAX  CREAM 

At  All  Drug  and  Cosmetic  Counters 


SONGWRITERS! 

PROTECT  YOUR  IDEASI      HOLD  ALL  SONGS,  POEMS: 
Write  for   safe,   correct  procedure! 

SONG  SERVICE 
Dept.  T.V.  333  W.  56th  St.,  New  York  19,  N.  Y. 


I 


24 
PHOTOS    , 

WALLET    A 
SIZE 


I 


from  your  favorite 

PHOTO 

I  Deluxe  finish,  double 
^  weight  portrait  paper. 
I  2  1/2  X  3  1/2  "  size. 
J  Money-back  guarantee. 
f  Send  cash,  check  or 
money -order. 

DAKO  KEEPSAKE 

WALLETS    PHOTOS 

P.O.  BOX86G,  Union,  N.J. 


i  No  classes  to  attend.  Easy  spare-time  train- 

Aing  covers  big  choice  of  subjects.  Friendly  ^ 
instructors;  standard  texts.  Full  credit  for\ 
1  previous  schooling.  Diploma  awarded. 
Write  now  for  FREE  catalog  I  _ 
WAYNE  SCHOOL  Catalog  HH-43i 
1 2527  Slief field  Ave.,  Chlcogo  14,  Illinois/ 


^  GROW  HERBS  FOR  US! 

Zh'Ip    'ill    <""    Ill's'-    di-mond  -   used    in    cxpc-n.l.o 

m.-dicinc^,   Eosy  lo  grow  indoors  or  oot-mull.ply 

•      .opidly     Yi-o.  oiound  Ptofilunily!  You  grow    I'm- 

S    «!■     buy     'fm!     Wc     supply     rvurylhing     you     nctd 

^     f,cc   taif   seeds   ond    revualing   plon   is   youis  Fii'" 

lo.    rhi.  o'skmy,   B,-  one  ol  ih.-  li.sl  lo  cofil-.ush 

--,..  „„,(  n,M„.ss  po        NATIONAL  HERB  EXrHANCF' 


Dept.    TS-2 
Gardena,    Calif. 

MAKE  $50-$60  A  WEEK 

Tou  can  learn  at  home  in  spare  time. 
Choice  of  careers:  practical  nurse, 
nursing  aide,  hospital  attendant,  infant 
nurse,  nurse-companion,  doctor's  office, 
etc.  Course  supervised  by  physician. 
58th  year.  Equipment  included.  Men, 

women,  18  to  60.  High  school  not  re- 

oulred.  Easy  tuition  payments.   Trial  plan.   Write  today. 

QUireu.   X-   ^j^ip^gQ  SCHOOL  OF   NURSING 

Dept.   462,  25   East  Jackson   Blvd.,   Chicaoo  4,   III. 

Vleaae  send  free  iooklet  and  16  sample  lesson  pages. 

iTvl State IH^- 


last  July,  a  gorgeous  white  mink  stole. 
Steve's  heart  always  remembers.  .  .  ^. 
He  dedicated  his  first  book,  "Bop  Fables, 
to  the  boys.  "Fourteen  for  Tonight  was 
dedicated  to  his  mother,  and  "The  Funny 
Men"  to  "Jaynie-bird."  "Wry  on  the  Rocks 
he  dedicated  to  Marguerite  Byrne,  his  old 
English  teacher  in  Chicago's  Hyde  Park 
High  School,  who  first  encouraged  him  m 
his  writing.  People  he  remembers  always, 
and  the  qualities  in  them,  and  the  gratitude 
he  owes  them.  Steve  lives,  in  other  words, 
not  by  the  letter  but  by  the  spirit. 

He  wouldn't  be  able  to  tell  you,  I'm  sure, 
on  what  dates  of  the  month  he  last  flew 
to  California  to  be  with  his  three  young 
sons— Stevie,  12,  Brian,  9,  and  David,  6— 
who  live  in  Hollywood  with  their  mother 
and  stepfather.  What  matters  to  him  is  to 
get  there  and  be  with  them.     And  every 
four  or  five  weeks  (rarely  less  often) ,  he  is 
with  them  for  anywhere  from  two  to  four 
days  or  as  much  time  as  he  can  manage. 
While  he   is  with  them,  he  devotes  all 
his  time  to  them,  is  never  away  from  them, 
except  for  taking  his  mother  (who  lives  in 
Santa  Monica)  to  dinner.  Plays  football  and 
baseball  with  them.  Takes  them  to  Disney- 
land.   Swims  in  the  pool  with  the  boys. 
Watches  TV  with  them.  Has  dinner  at  the 
house  with  them   and  with  their  mother 
and  stepfather,  with  whom  he  is  on  won- 
derfully friendly  terms.  In  the  summers, 
the  boys  are  with  us  here  in  the  East,  and 
we  rent  a  house  on  Long  Island  Sound. 
As  a  father,  Steve  is  wonderful,  and  well 
I   know   it.   He,   who   never   had   time   or 
opportunity    for    athletics,    has    a    natural 
aptitude  for  them.   Of  Steve  on  a  tennis 
court,   my   crack   tennis-playing   brothers, 
Frank  and  Edward  Cotter,  say,  "Gosh,  he 
has  a  natural  swing!"  Natural  aptitude  for 
golf,  too.  And,  although  he  couldn't  swim 
a  stroke,  when  I  first  met  him,  he  now 
swims,  water-skis,  everything.  He's  won- 
derful with  children,  too,  because  of  his 
serenity,  his  even  disposition. 

A  peaceable  and  peace-loving  man,  Steve 
as  has  been  said  is  "no  rooter  for  the  TV 
rating  system"  which  is  a  fiercely  competi- 
tive battle.  However  since  the  system 
exists  and  he  is,  perforce,  a  part  of  it,  he 
will  compete— with,  specifically,  Ed  Sulli- 
van— but  not  with  blood  in  his  eye  nor  with 
hate  in  his  heart.  Steve  Allen  couldn't  hate 
anyone.  He  can't  even  stay  angry  at  any- 
body longer  than  thirty  minutes. 

Actually  Steve  keeps  in  the  very  good 
health  he  enjoys  by  not  being  disturbed  by 
anything.  No  vitamins,  a  very  barren  medi- 
cine chest — no  vacations,  just  quiet  within 
—accounts  for  the  fact  that  he  can  do  so 
much  without  paying  a  penalty. 

Another  wonderful   quality   in   Steve   is 


94 


that  he— 'who  literally  has  no  time— finds 
time  for  everything.  For  instance,  when 
Audrey  and  I  started  this  recording  thing, 
Steve  used  to  play  the  piano  for  us  while 
we  practiced.  And  he  wrote  the  lyrics  for 
"Dungaree  Dan,"  our  second  recording  (a 
big-selling  one,  too).  Steve  and  I  also 
made  a  record  together— "What  Is  a  Wife?" 
on  one  side,  "What  Is  a  Husband?"  on  the 
other.  This  one  was  a  real  big  hit.  Thou- 
sands and  thousands  of  copies  were  sold, 
and  Bill  CuUen  tells  me  he  gets  more  re- 
quests for  it,  on  his  early-morning  show 
over  WNBC  Radio  (New  York),  than  for 
any  other. 

Monday  and  Tuesday  nights,  we  usually 
go  to  the  theater,  to  a  movie,  or  to  a 
party.  Or  we  entertain  here  at  home.  Sat- 
urday nights,  we  watch  Sid  Caesar  (one  of 
the  "greats,"  we  agree)  on  television.  We 
like  Jackie  Gleason,  too,  and  Your  Hit 
Parade.  Time  out  for  fun,  Steve  takes- 
time  for  living  and  loving,  for  me.  •  •  • 

But  perhaps  his  most  wonderful  quality 
is  that  he  has  never  been  egotistical  about 
anything.    He'd    been    writing    ever    since 
high-school  days,  and  all  through  his  years 
as  announcer  and  then  a  disc  jockey  on 
radio— but,  until  I  met  him,  he'd  never  sold 
anything  or  made  any  serious  effort  to  do 
so.  Now  that  he's  been  published,  now  that 
it's  been  said  of  him  that  "he  writes  like 
a  writer  of  the  top  grade,"  now  that  he's 
been  likened  to  O.  Henry  and  Steinbeck 
(among  others) ,  he  is  still  without  egotism. 
There's  nothing  of  the  long-hair  or  egg- 
head about  Steve  AUen.  He  plays  it  for 
laughs.  "A  Girl  Smiles,"  one  of  the  poems 
in  "Wry  on  the  Rocks,"  he  says  was  writ- 
ten about  a  high-school  girl  named  Zella 
Corpenny— "and  I  hardly  knew  her."  Some 
of  his  love  poems  were  written  about  me. 
But,  for  the  most  part,  he  says  his  poems 
are  written  to  no  particular  person,  have 
nothing  to  do  with  his  mood.  He  just  "gets 
an  idea."  Once,  for  instance,  I  was  frymg 
some  Mexican  beans  and  little  Brian,  who 
was    watching,    said,    "Oh,   boy,    chocolate 
mashed   potatoes!"— hence  the  poem,     To 
Brian"  was  written. 

Nothing  of  the  temperamental  artist 
about  Steve  Allen,- whether  as  musician, 
comedian,  poet,  author,  or  in  any  of  the 
fields  in  which  he  excels.  .  .  .  Not  too  long 
ago  Steve  was  driving  across  the  country 
and,  two-thirds  of  the  way  across,  he 
found  that  he  had  only  about  twelve  dol- 
lars in  his  pocket.  The  rest  of  the  way 
across,  he  ate  peanuts.  It  never  occurred 
to  him  to  go  to  a  local  NBC  station  and 
say,  "I  am  Steve  Allen.  May  I  borrow  some 
money?"  ,  _,    ^, 

He  goes  through  life  that  way.  Thats 
why  he  is  Steve  Allen. 


All- American  Mother 


DIRECT  TO  YOU  . . .  EASY  TERMS 


Genuine  Rockdale  Monuments  and 
Markers.  Full  Price  $14.95  and  up. 
Satisfaction  or  MONEY  BACK. 
We  pay  freight.  Compare  our  low 
prices.  Write  for  FREE  CATALOG. 
ROCKDALE  MONUMENT  CO. 

DEPT.  445  -        JOLIET,  ILLINOIS 


{Continued  from  page  33) 
about  my  work,  and  to  be  more  humble 
about  everything." 

And,  shortly  thereafter,  Jane  Wyatt  was 
to  realize  popular  success  on  a  scale  she 
had  never  before  attained.  All  her  ex- 
perience and  her  years  of  theater  paid  off 
in  television,  the  greedy  giant  of  the  en- 
tertainment world.  In  the  part  of  the  gay, 
glamorous,  modern  mother  in  Father 
Knows  Best,  over  NBC -TV,  Jane  found 
the  long-run  hit  role  of  her  dreams. 

Today,  Jane  Wyatt  is  achieving  for  the 
mothers  of  America  what  Myrna  Loy  once 
did  for  the  wives.  The  chic  actress  whose 
ancestors  virtually  chartered  New  York 
society  is  being  identified  as  the  average 
Ail-American  mother  and  housewife — and 
modernizing  no  few  of  them.  She's  warm 
and  gay,  and  svelte  of  form,  with  a  lovely, 
piquant  face  and  laughing  hazel  eyes. 
She's    enthusiastic    about    everything    and 


she  talks  at  full  speed,  fairly  clipping  off  : 
the  words.  i 

Jane's  constant  twinkle  and  tremendous 
vitality  amaze  all  who  work  side  by  side 
with  her  during  the  hectic  two  days  they 
rehearse  and  the  three  days  they  shoot  the 
weekly  television  show.  "I  don't^  know 
how  she  keeps  all  that  exuberance,"  mar- 
vels her  television  son,  Billy  Gray.  "I  run 
down  around  four  P.M.,  but  Jane  never 
seems  to  get  tired  on  the  set.  She  just 
keeps  going  and  going.  She's  always  so 
gay  and  enchanting,  always  so  bubbly,  al- 
ways so— ready/'  he  says,  triumphantly 
finding  the  word.  ,    „  , 

All  of  which  her  husband,  Edgar,  at- 
tributes to  an  inherited  family  trait  called 
"the  Wyatt  energy."  As  he  says  laugh- 
ingly, "These  who've  known  her  all  her 
life  are  always  saying,  'Jane  has  all  the 
Wyatt  energy.' "  ,  .       •„    u 

"It  was  the  way  I  was  brought  up,    she 


(  explains.  "I  was  taught  you  were  never 
to  admit  you  were  too  tired,  or  too  cold, 
or  too  sick,  or  anything.  That  you  just 
sort  of  over-ride  those  things." 

"There's  a  Spartan  streak  in  her  fam- 
ily," her  husband  adds. 

In  the  double  life  Jane  leads  today,  she 
can  well  use  "all  the  Wyatt  energy."  Every 
morning  at  seven  A.M.  she  maneuvers  her 
sturdy  little  foreign  car  (with  the  four-way 
mystery  shift)  out  the  family  drive  and 
through  the  traffic  to  the  sound  stage  at 
Columbia  Studios  where  Father  Knows 
Best  is  filmed  for  Screen  Gems.  All  day 
she's  the  gay,  understanding  wife  of  Rob- 
ert Young  and  the  sometimes  puzzled 
mother  coping  with  an  energetic  brood  of 
teenagers  in  the  persons  of  Elinor  Dona- 
hue (Betty),  Billy  Gray  (Bud),  and  little 
Lauren  Chapin,  who  plays  the  impish 
Kathy  in  Jane's  television  family. 

After  seven  PM.  Jane  is  again  immersed 
in  the  myriad  activities  of  her  own  live- 
ly household.  Her  husband,  Edgar,  is  an 
avid  "fly-fisherman" — a  sport  about  which 
Jane  knows  very  little,  but  in  which  she 
participates  to  a  degree.  "I'm  a  bird- 
watcher. I  go  fishing  with  Eddie — and 
watch  the  birds,"  she  says.  Her  young 
son,  Mike,  13,  is  a  brilliant  student  of 
the  piano  and  violin  and  is  currently  en- 
grossed in  building  and  flying  model  air- 
planes. 

Her  oldest  son,  Chris,  who  attends  M.I.T. 
in  Boston,  is  interested  in  sports  cars, 
chamber  music,  and  in  becoming  a  fine 
engineer — a  field  about  which,  individually 
or  collectively,  his  mother  knows  noth- 
ing. "Chris  has  the  mathematical  mind 
of  the  family,"  she  says  proudly,  "and 
I  can't  add  one  and  one." 

You  may  truly  say  that  this  mother's 
work  is  never  done.  Before  the  cameras, 
during  the  day.  Jane  may  be  faced  with 
the  situation  that  her  son  Bud  has  de- 
cided to  become  an  author  and  insists  on 
going  out  into  the  world — at  least  as  far 
as  Pomona— and  learning  about  life.  Then 
back  home,  that  evening,  Jane  may  be 
faced  with  the  grim  reality  that  Mike's 
growing  up — and  going  away  to  camp  for 
the  first  time.  .  .  . 

"That  I'll  never  forget!"  sighs  Jane.  "Go- 
ing to  Glendale  to  the  station  when  Mike 
went  away.  All  the  mothers  were  there, 
seeing  their  sons  off  and  clinging  to  them 
—including  me.  It  was  Mike's  first  trip 
on  a  train  and  he  was  going  to  camp  in  the 
mountains  about  a  thousand  miles  away. 
I  felt  awful  when  I  saw  that  big  train  com- 
ing in,  wailing  and  wailing — and  Mike 
standing  there  with  his  sleeping  bag,  and 
fishing  rod,  and  violin.  That  was  what 
made  him  look  so  pathetic — the  violin.  .  .  ." 
At  times  like  this,  Jane  admits,  the 
"Spartan  streak"  is  very  thin. 

She  was  bom  Jane  Waddington  Wyatt 
in  a  place  called  Campgaw,  New  Jersey, 
about  which  she  admittedly  remembers 
nothing — "I  was  only  there  three  months." 
One  of  four  children,  she  grew  up  in  the 
red  brick  ancestral  mansion  in  New  York 
City,  just  off  Gramercy  Park,  and  she's 
"socially"  descended  on  all  sides.  Her 
great-great-great  grandmother,  in  fact, 
co-founded  the  Colonial  Dames  of  America 
and,  when  pressed,  Jane  will  admit  that 
convincing  directors  and  producers  a  so- 
called  "society  girl"  could  be  serious  about 
an  acting  career  was  "the  most  difficult 
thmg— the  infuriating  thing."  Her  father 
was  a  wealthy  financier  until  1929.  Her 
mother,  Mrs.  Christopher  Wyatt,  who  is 
still  drama  critic  for  The  Catholic  World, 
early  influenced  Jane's  desire  for  self- 
expression.  "Mother's  seen  every  play  in 
New  York  for  the  last  thirty  years,"  says 
Jane.  "We  were  all  taken  to  the  theater 
at  an   early  age." 

Jane,  in  fact,  first  decided  to  be  an 
actress  at  the  age  of  five,  when   she   ac- 


companied her  mother  to  see  Maude  Adams 
in  "A  Kiss  for  Cinderella."  She  remem- 
bers "seeing  John  Barrymore  in  'Hamlet,' 
too — and  loving  him."  While  attending 
Miss  Chapin's  School,  Jane  found  herself 
a  fine  emotional  vehicle  in  "St.  Joan."  "I 
was  president  of  the  dramatic  club,"  she 
laughs,  "so  I  could  pick  the  part  I  wanted 
to  play."  Impressed  with  her  perform- 
ance, a  producer  told  her  then,  "If  you 
ever  want  to  go  on  to  the  stage,  come  see 
me."  However,  Jane  wanted  to  go  on 
to  college,  to  acquire  more  maturity  and 
much  more  experience. 

"I  felt  it  was  a  very  tricky  and  a 
difficult  thing  to  do — putting  your  whole 
life  into  acting,"  she  explains.  "I  didn't 
want  to  go  on  the  stage  just  to  satisfy 
an  ego.  I  felt  you  had  to  prepare  for  it, 
and  I  didn't  know  whether  I  had  any 
talent  for  the  theater  or  not."  She  at- 
tended Barnard  College,  she  worked  with 
the  Berkshire  Summer  Playhouse  group 
and  with  the  Westport  Players — and  one 
day  she  began,  as  she  puts  it:  "walking  up 
and  down  Broadway.  I  started  ■  walking 
every  morning  at  ten  A.M.  and  I  made 
every  office."  The  producer  she'd  impressed 
had  stopped  producing  by  then.  However, 
he  did  give  her  a  little  commercial  ad- 
vice. "Go  buy  yourself  a  lipstick  and 
a  pair  of  earrings — and  pretend  you're 
very  sure  of  yourself,"  he  said.  Which 
she  did.  She  also  pretended  a  whole 
backlog  of  experience:  "You  fib  like  a 
trouper,  telling  them  you've  done  all  sorts 
of  things." 

Because  somebody  thought  she  looked 
like  Rose  Hobart,  she  got  a  job  as  un- 
derstudy in  "Trade  Winds,"  in  which  she 
had  three  words  to  speak  for  the  whole 
run  of  the  play — five  days.  Through  sheer 
persistence,  she  finally  got  in  to  see  a 
producer  and  read  for  the  role  of  Louis 
Calhem's  daughter  in  "Give  Me  Yester- 
day." And  she  got  the  part. 

However,  the  play  closed  almost  before 
it  began.  In  two  heartbreaking  years, 
Jane  was  in  six  plays  that  flopped,  plays 
with  "name"  authors  and  star  casts.  Her 
scrapbook  reveals  that  critics  unanimously 
called  her  "the  most  promising  ingenue." 
And,  as  seasons  passed,  they  went  farther 
than  that.  They  panned  producers,  as 
one  critic  put  it,  "for  not  giving  Jane  Wyatt 
a  chance  to  play  the  roles  for  which  the 
gods  created  her."  Then,  on  the  strength 
of  her  performance  in  Philip  Barry's  "The 
Joyous  Season" — which  also  flopped — she 
was  signed  to  a  Universal  movie  contract. 

In  Hollywood — where,  traditionally,  boy 
meets  girl— Jane  Wyatt  was  reunited  with 
an  old  beau,  Edgar  Ward,  handsome  Har- 
vard graduate  and  wealthy  young  sports- 
man whom  Jane  had  known  since  she  was 
sixteen.  They  first  met  "on  a  plane  flying 
to  Hyde  Park  to  a  house  party  at  the 
Roosevelts'."  They'd  date,  off  and  on, 
through  the  years.  And,  when  Jane  shut- 
tled to  the  Coast  to  make  "Great  Expecta- 
tions," Edgar  was  there  sweating  out  a  leg 
injury,  in  the  Good  Samaritan  Hospital. 
He'd  broken  his  leg  skiing  at  St.  Moritz,  in- 
flammation had  set  in,  and  he'd  been 
rushed  to  a  great  bone  surgeon  in  Los 
Angeles  to  save  his  leg. 

Their  reunion  there,  as  Jane  recalls  now, 
was  one  of  the  few  times  she's  ever  been 
angry  at  him.  "I  arrived  back  in  town 
for  the  picture.  I  put  down  my  suitcase 
and  rushed  breathlessly  to  the  telephone 
and  called  the  hospital.  'Hello — guess  who 
this  is,'  I  said.  And  he  said,  'I  never  guess 
on  the  telephone.'  I  started  to  bang  the 
phone  down — " 

"You  can  get  in  a  lot  of  trouble,  guess- 
ing on  the  phone,"  her  husband  observes 
now,  hearing  this. 

"So — I  went  over  to  the  hospital  and 
courted  him  .  .  .  and  we  were  married," 
Jane  says  laughingly. 


PERMANENT  DARKENER  [°:,X 
FOR  LASHES  AND  BROWS  ^Xd 

•  NOT  AN  ANALINE  DYCI 

•  I  APPIICATION  lASTS  4  to  S  WUKSI 

Takes  iusi  seconds  to  apply . . .  stays  on  4  to 
5  weeksl  "Dark-Eyes"  is  the  perfect  way  to 
make  eyelashes  and  brows  completely  natural 
looking... and  it  will  not  harden  or  break 
themi  "Dark-Eyes"  is  NOT  A  MASCARAI 
Will    not   stick  to  eyelash   curler.    Eliminates 


the  bother  of  daily  eye  make-up. 
It  is  PERMANENT,  SWIMPROOF, 
SMUDGEPROOF,  TEARPROOF,  and 
SMEARPROOFI 

$1.25  (plus  tax)  at  leading  drug, 
dept.  and  variety  chain  stores. 


25c 

SEND  TODAY 

for 

TRIAL  SIZE 

NO  DELAY— 
your  trial  order 
shipped  in  24 
hours  1 

"DARK-EYES"  COMPANY,  Dept.  P-27 
3319  W.  Carroll  Ava.,  Chicago  34,  III. 

I  enclose  25c  (coin  or  stamps— tax  included)  for 
TRIAL  SIZE  pkg.  of  "Dark-Eyes"  with  directions. 
check  shode:  □  Light  Brown  Q  Brown  □  Black 

Nnmft  ^___ 

Address . ^^^__ 

Town_ 


-State- 


POEMS  WANTED 

I     V#  kl  IWI W    ^01'  musical  setting  .  .  .  send 

j7  ,        —  -  —  -^    Poems    today.    Any   subject. 

Immeaiate  consideration.   Phonograph   records   made. 

CROWN  MUSIC  CO.,49  W.32  ST.,Studio  560, New  YoHc  i 


c.,.rvbodv's  Doing": 


•bbSL 

WALLET  Size  2</2  X  3V2  on 
PORTRAIT  QUALITY  PAPER 

Just  pennies  per  picture  for 

beautiful  portrait-quality 

reproductions  of  your  own  favorite  —  —  — •. 

photograph.  Send  one  portrait  or    ^^ -f 

snapshot  (returned  unharmed) 

And  money  tO:  ^^^^r>T 

WALLET  PHOTOS,  BOX  Q-S  ^^^USL 

Hillside.  N.J. 

In  a  hurry?  Send  25c  extra  | 

for  Super-Speed  service.     |  ^^^^ 

MONEY  BACK  GUARANTEE  Wa  pay  pOSUgO' 

SHEETS,  TOASTERS, 
TOWELS,  MIXERS,etc 
Q\y^H  TO  YOU  FREE! 

Hundreds  of  famous,  na- 
tionally advertised  products 
to  choose  from — furniture, 
rugs,  lamps,  slip  covers,  sil- 
verware, china,  draperies. 
You  get  $50.00  —  $100.00 
and    more    in    merchandise 

I  '    ^       just  by  being  Secretary  of  a 

Popular  Club  you  help  your 

friends  form.  It's  easy !  It's 

«*>"  S       ^^" '  Nothing  to  sell,  noth- 

.  ™i,  *5        ing  to  buy.  Write  today. 

I  Popular  Club  Plan,  Dept.  K931,  Lynbrook,  N.  Y.  | 

I  Send  Big  FREE  276-Page  FULL-COLOR  Catalog  |         ^ 

|N«»« - I  R 

I  Address | 

^   City. state „  | 

95 


Today,  her  husband  says  teasingly,  "I 
wouldn't  marry  an  actress — except  Jane 
Wyatt.  She's  the  one  actress  I  would 
marry."  One  senses  theirs  is  a  rare  mar- 
riage indeed,  rich  in  humor  and  under- 
standing. "My  husband  is  quite  a  philos- 
pher,"  Jane  says  quietly,  paying  tribute 
to  his  encouragement  during  tense,  un- 
happy periods  of  her  career. 

But  for  her  husband's  encouragement, 
Jane  would  probably  never  have  starred 
in  "Lost  Horizon,"  which  seemed  to  promise 
such  a  briUiant  future  for  her.  Jane's 
ambition  then  was  to  act  in  a  picture  di- 
rected by  Frank  Capra,  and  they'd  cele- 
brated with  champagne  the  day  she  was 
told  she  would  play  the  part.  But,  the 
day  before  she  went  before  the  cameras, 
her  husband  was  taken  to  the  hospital  for 
another  operation  on  his  leg  which  would 
decide  the  final  outcome.  Jane  wanted 
to  give  up  her  part  and  be  with  him,  but 
Eddie  wouldn't  hear  of  it.  This  was  the 
one  part  she'd  waited  for,  the  one  direc- 
tor she'd  been  dying  to  work  for.  "Go 
ahead  and  take  it,  honey,"  he  told  her. 
"I'll  be  all  right."  Besides,  there  was  the 
family  reputation  to  maintain.  What  about 
all  the  "Wyatt  energy"  and  over-riding 
all  the  obstacles?  "Show  them  what  you're 
made  of,"  he  smiled. 

Every  day  at  six  A.M.,  Jane  Wyatt  would 
streak  for  the  hospital,  having  made  ar- 
rangements with  the  authorities  to  visit 
him  then.  At  7:30  A.M.,  she  reported  to 
make-up  at  the  studio.  From  9  until  12, 
she  worked  before  the  camera  with  Ronald 
Cohnan.  During  the  lunch  hour,  she  was 
again  at  the  hospital,  and  by  one  o'clock — 
back  on  the  set  again.  This  was  the  rou- 
tine for  a  month,  and  nobody  who  worked 
with  Jane  on  "Lost  Horizon"  knew  what 
was  happening— until  the  happy  day  Eddie 
went  home  from  the  hospital  assured  he 
would  walk  again. 

Career-wise,  however,  Jane  Wyatt  was 
to  find  her  own  Shangri-La  in  television. 
And,  with  her  experienced  background, 
no  challenge  was  to  prove  too  great.  She 
loved  the  hour-long  live  dramatic  shows 
that  paled  many  another  performer,  and 
shooting  a  film  in  three  days  worked  no 
hardship  for  her.  Directors  welcomed  a 
fine  talent — without  temperament.  And, 
one  day,  there  came  along  a  wonderfully 
warm,  gay  part  so  perfect  for  her.  In  fact, 
the  role  waited  a  year  just  for  Jane. 

Jane  was  always  Robert  Young's  choice 
to  co-star  with  him.  At  the  beginning  of 
1953,  when  producer  Eugene  B.  Rodney 
and  Bob  Young,  who  co-produces  Father 
Knows  Best,  first  sat  down  to  talk  about 
the  series,  "Jane  was  our  top  choice,"  Bob 
recalls,  "but  she  wasn't  available.  She 
was  living  in  New  York,  her  boys  were  in 
school  there,  her  husband  was  in  business 
there,  and  Jane  was  interested  in  the 
stage  and  live  TV."  They  didn't  however, 
anticipate  too  much  difficulty  casting  Mar- 
garet, the  All -American  mother  and  house- 
wife. "We  thought  the  kids  might  be 
trouble  to  cast,  but  finally  we  had  every- 
body else — and  still  no  Margaret.  And 
I'D  admit  we'd  set  the  standard  very 
high,"  Bob  says  now. 

"We  had  a  definite  personality  in  mind," 
he  continues.  "She  must  be  very  attrac- 
tive. She  must  appear  to  be  of  an  age 
to  be  the  mother  of  a  family  this  size,  but 
she  must  not  be  the  popular  conception  of 
the  matronly  type.  She  must  be  chic  and 
able  to  wear  smart  clothes — but  as  a 
mother  would  wear  them,  not  a  model. 
And,  of  course,  she  must  be  equipped 
T  professionally  to  hold  up  the  other  half  of 
y  the  couple.  We  were  really  asking  for  the 
moon,"  he  recalls. 

"A  year  later,   we'd   cast  the   kids,   the 
pilot  was  ready — and  still  no  Margaret.  We 
began  to  wonder  if  we'd  actually  painted 
96 


ourselves    into    a    corner.     Whether    we'd 
designed  a  person  we  just  couldn't  cast." 

Then,  one  day,  the  phone  rang  in  Bob 
Young's  office  and  an  agent  was  saying, 
out  of  the  blue,  "By  the  way,  is  the 
part  of  Margaret  still  open?" 

"Yes,"  said  Bob  wearily.  "It  so  hap- 
pens it  is." 

"Well,  Jane  Wyatt's  back  here  to  live 
now,"  the  agent  said. 

"We  didn't  even  discuss  a  test,"  Bob 
says  today.  "We  decided  we'd  go  with 
the  pilot— which  is  a  commitment  for  the 
whole  series — and  the  cameras  rolled  with 
the  Margaret  we'd  always  wanted.  I  was 
tremendously  gratified — it  meant  a  great 
-deal  to  me,"  he  admits. 

The  public  took  her  immediately  to 
heart.  In  many  respects,  Jane's  the  "other 
mother"  of  today's  youth,  an  inspiration  in 
households  throughout  the  land,  and  the 
confidante  of  many  troubled  teenagers 
who  write  to  her. 

"People  feel  closer  to  you  in  television, 
anyway,"  Jane  explains  modestly.  "You're 
closer  to  people  in  the  living  room.  They 
feel  very  close.  And  well — we're  the 
happy  kind  of  family  kids  like — " 

As  for  Jane's  television  family,  Billy 
Gray  puts  it  this  way:  "She's  real  nice — 
the  closest  thing  to  a  mother  I've  ever 
had,  besides  my  own.  And,  you  know, 
she  is  like  a  mother  in  certain  respects. 
She  watches  out  after  us — she's  always 
reminding  me  of  my  nails,"  grins  Billy, 
who's  a  mechanic  at  heart,  spends  every 
moment  he  can  on  his  motorcycle — and  ad- 
mits he   can  take   some   reminding. 

What  with  rehearsing  and  shooting 
Father  Knows  Best  five  days  a  week  for 
thirty-nine  weeks  of  every  year,  Jane 
Wyatt  and  Robert  Young  spend  more 
time  with  their  television  families  than 
with  their  own.  "It's  been  real  fun  watch- 
ing the  children  grow,"  she  says.  "They're 
the  real  life  of  the  show  and  they're  chang- 
ing all  the  time." 

Sometimes,  when  Jane's  talking,  it's  a 
little  hard  to  tell  where  her  television 
family  ends  and  her  own  family  begins. 
When  the  cast  of  Father  Knows  Best 
visited  New  York  recently,  Jane  couldn't 
have  been  more  excited  making  plans  for 
her  own.  "The  whole  family's  going  and 
we're  looking  forward  so  to  the  trip,"  she 
bubbled.  "Elinor's  just  dying  to  go— she's 
never  been  there.  This  is  going  to  be  a 
ball.  The  children  just  can't  wait  to  go 
to  the  Empire  State  Building  and  to 
Sardi's — and  to  all  the  places  they've  heard 
about.  How  we'll  keep  track  of  all  of 
them,  I  don't  know!" 

Jane  is  sure  that  being  so  full  of  chat- 
ter about  her  TV  family  must  be  a  little 
monotonous,  conversationally,  to  Eddie  at 
home.  "I  go  home  so  full  of  talk  about 
the  children's  problems  and  all  the  dra- 
matic little  things  that  happen  on  the 
set  which  seem  so  awfully  important  there, 
but  which  must  not  seem  awfully  impor- 
tant to  your  husband  in  connection  with 
real  family  affairs  at  home,"  she  laughs. 

The  Wards  live  in  a  charming  old  two- 
storey  English  house  on  a  quiet  tree-shaded 
street  where  West  Hollywood  and  Beverly 
Hills  meet.  The  house  looks  Ivy-League 
and  lived-in.  It  has  spacious  lawns  and 
many  fruit  trees  and  a  wide  brick  patio 
in  the  backyard  "where  I  watch  the  birds 
— which  may  seem  like  an  odd  pastime, 
but  I  enjoy  it,"  says  Jane.  "This  is  a 
fun-street,"  she'll  tell  you.  "I  don't  think 
many  people  even  know  it's  here.  Aldous 
Huxley  lives  just  down  the  street,  and 
Theodore  Dreiser  used  to  live  next  door. 
I  think  this  once  started  out  to  be  the 
place  to  live — then  they  passed  it  over 
and  went  on  to  Beverly  Hills." 

It's  evident  that  Jane's  is  a  "happy  kind 
of   family"    at   home,   too.     Her   youngest 


son   comes   bounding   down   the   stairs   in 
blue    jeans,     monoculars     in    hand,     and    . 
politely    acknowledges    the    introductions.    I 
"I    brought    Mike    that    from    Germany,"    ' 
Jane   says   of  the   long   one-eyed   instru- 
ment   he    so    carefully    holds.      Taking    a 
bead  out  the  window,  on  an  object  some    J 
distance   removed,   Mike   comments,    "Not 
too  big,  Mom — but  I  like  them  better  than 
binoculars."  i 

There  have  been  times,  Jane  admits  ; 
with  a  chuckle,  when  the  whole  script  ■ 
seems  reversed — when  her  own  home  could 
be  that  on  the  television  show.  "I  came 
home  the  other  evening,"  she  smiles,  "and 
I  found  Eddie  upstairs  with  a  small  fishing 
rod  in  the  bathroom.  He  was  fishing  in 
the  bathtub — " 

"I  was  pulling  the  flies  through  the  , 
water,"  her  husband  explains.  He  had  ' 
been  tying  some  "Roballo  flies,"  some  fes- 
tive yellow  feathery  numbers  featuring 
"saddle  hackles — or  rather,  rooster  feath- 
ers," he  says.  "They've  had  great  success 
with  the  bass  in  Florida  with  this  sort 
of  fly."  He  was  checking  the  movement 
in  water. 

Jane  accompanies  Eddie  on  many  fish- 
ing trips.  As  he  says  warmly,  "She's  a 
very  good  companion — she  loves  watching 
the  birds."  His  wife  also  loves  to  watch 
Eddie  fish.  "I  love  everything  that  goes 
with  camping  out — as  long  as  somebody 
else  does  the  fishing.  I  like  cooking  fish 
on  the  beach  at  sunset,  and  I  like  hiking 
in  the  hiUs,  and  I  love  to  lie  in  the  woods 
and  read.  I  like  the  feeling  of  being  out 
in  the  open." 

But,  as  far  as  that  goes,  just  give 
Jane  Wyatt  a  pair  of  binoculars  for 
watching  the  birds,  and  a  book  for  read- 
ing, and  she's  happy  almost  anywhere. 
"I'm  terrified  to  be  left  without  a  book 
any  place,"  she  says.  "I  even  keep  the 
compartment  of  the  car  filled  with  books 
— so,  when  we  stop  at  the  service  station,  • 
I'll  have  a  book  to  read  while  they're  ■ 
working  on  the  car." 

Presently,  Jane  Wyatt's  "inherited"  abil- 
ity for  over-riding  obstacles  is  getting 
quite  a  workout,  redecorating  their  home. 
Visualizing  for  her  own  family  just  how 
elegant  the  living  room  will  look  some 
day  done  in  the  assorted  splotches  of  ■ 
grey  and  gold  material.  Just  how  smart 
the  charcoal  and  white  chintz  will  look 
accented  by  the  bright  tomato  red.  "That 
is,  if  we  can  get  that  shade.  Out  of  twenty 
shades  of  red,  we  finally  narrowed  it  down 
to  this — now  they  say  they  are  out  of  it. 

"Eddie  went  to  Canada  fishing  and  ex- 
pected to  come  home  and  find  it  all  fin-  ) 
ished,"  Jane  says,  looking  around  her  at* 
the  dismantled  fireplace  and  the  uncov- 
ered chairs.  "But  we  can't  get  anything 
done  until  we  get  the  marble  for  the 
mantel— and  we  can't  get  the  marble  for 
three  weeks." 

Her  husband  is  confident  and  content  ; 
however  to  leave  all  such  details  up  tof 
Jane  and  the  "Wyatt  energy"— "She  has' 
so  much  of  it,"  he  says. 

"That  comes  from  the  theater,"  Jane  . 
says  now.  "It  takes  tremendous  energy. 
or  you'll  never  last  through  the  physical* 
part — or  the  agony  part."  i 

Today,  there's  no  "agony  part"  in  Jane's  | 
professional  life.  She's  found  her  Shangri-  { 
La  professionally,  as  well  as  personally.' 
She's  starring  in  that  hoped-for  hit  "that- 
would  run  and  run  and  run."  Her  theater 
stretches  across  America — farther  thanj 
the  imhappy  young  actress  who  was  so 
certain  she  had  failed  would  ever  hav 
believed  possible.  And  Jane  Wyatt's  per-f 
formance  as  an  Ail-American  wife  and 
mother,  which  is  so  reflective  of  her  own? 
home  and  happiness,  touches  the  lives  ofj 
millions  in  a  way  which  that  girl  would 
never  have  envisioned. 


1 


Now... try  a  new  idea  in  smoking: 

Salem 


Your  first  puff  will  tell  you  Salem  refreshes  your  taste 
-  you  smoke  refreshed!  Through  Salem's  modern,  pure 
white  filter  flows  the  freshest  taste  in  cigarettes  -  rich 
tobacco  taste  with  a  new  surprise  softness.  It's  a  new 
idea  in  smoking  ...  a  new  experience  for  every  kind  of 
smoker.  Try  Salem  and  smoke  refreshed  today. 


R.  J.  Reynolds 
Tobacco  Company 


It's  delightful  to  smoke  Salem . .  .you'll  love  'em 


vSu/t^W^S«  ^\.  -* 


^MIMMOR 


SANFORD  CLARK 
New  Teen  Idol 

ERIN  O'BRIEN 
Lady  in  Luck 


Singing  Sisters 
THE  LENNONS 
of  the  Lawrence  Welk  Shows 


IDIANA  LOVES  SHRINER  •  MEMPHIS  LOVES  PRESLEY 

THE  $64,000  QUESTION;  WHAT'S  IT  LIKE  TO  WIN? 


new  and 

softest 


New  Kotex  with  Wondersoft  covering 

-the  most  comfortable, 

most  absorberit  napkin  ever  designed 


^ 


Nc 


I  ow  Kotex  has  Wondersoft  covering  .  . . 
a  new  open-mesh  covering  that's  incredibly  light 
and  gentle.  Only  new  Kotex  napkins  with  this 
Wondersoft  covering  can  give  you  softness  you 
thought  you'd  never  have;  complete  open-mesh 
absorption  that  never  fails;  and  a  perfect  fit 
that  can't  ever  pull  out  of  shape. 

To  complete  your  comfort,  Kotex  has 
created  a  new  sanitary  belt.  Its  soft, 
flexible  clasp  ends  cutting  and  chafing, 
yet  is  actually  stronger  than  metal. 


Buy  a  new 
Kotex  belt,  too ! 


KOTEX  and  WONDERSOFT  are  trademarks  of  Kimberly-Clark  Corp, 


"So  much  better 


More  women  choose  KOTEX  than  all  other  sanitary  napkins 


Now...  end  dandruff  problems 


this  pleasant  easy  shampoo  way! 


3Rr*<:"^iK®3S3^SS!^S-iCi;:: 


new]J4te6i'ilil  tNULIi— the  first  proven  medical  treatment 

shampoo  form !  )Vo  prescription  needed. . .  99%  effective! 

Quickly  ends  itching,  flaking,  excess  oiliness— without  messy  salves, 
ointments  or  separate  lotions  —  Here  at  last  is  an  amazingly  ejffective 
treatment  and  a  rich-sudsing  shampoo  all  in  one.  You  have  never  used 
anything  as  simple,  as  pleasant  and  as  easy.  Enden  get  results  even  after 
other  methods  have  failed.  While  you  shampoo,  it  penetrates  to  the  trouble 
spots.  Between  shampoos,  it  actually  inhibits  bacteria  growth.  Use  enden 
regvdarly  and  your  dandruff  problems  will  be  over. 

Proved  99%  effective  in  2-year  doctor-supervised  clinical  tests— Der- 
matologists and  skin  speciahsts  have  proved  enden's  basic  ingredients. 
Clinical  tests  showed  99%  of  patients  enjoyed  positive  benefits.  While 
enden's  medications  have  been  medically  approved  for  years,  science  was 
unable  to  combine  them  in  a  pleasant  shampoo  vmtil  now. 

A  wonderful  shampoo  for  the  whole  family — Enden  is  especially  good 
for  teen-age  dandruff.  Even  children  can  use  enden  safely,  for  it  is  a 
superior  shampoo  as  weU  as  a  treatment  that  prevents  dandruff  problems 
from  starting.  Enden  helps  make  hair  look  "alive"  and  healthy — leaves 
it  shining.  And  you'U  discover  enden  makes  your  scalp  feel  so  fresh — far 
cleaner  than  with  your  favorite  ordinary  shampoo.  To  end  dandruff  prob- 
lems and  prevent  their  rettim,  switch  to  enden. 

use  ENDEN  instead  of  your  regular  shampoo— ends  itching  SColp 

and  dandruff  problems  and  prevents  their  return! 


m 


•Trade  mark 


big  jar 

only  SP  I  ^^  ^^  at  drug  and  cosmetic  counters 


no  tax 


Guaranteed  to  end  dandruff  problems 

Developed  after  years  of  laboratory  tests  by 
Helene  Curtis,  foremost  authority  on  hair  care. 


i 


'j)^ 


a?5 


*2  . 


fine  wko 
wears  #he 
diamond! 


This  is  you . . .  and  aren't  you  glad 
you  were  always  so  careful  with 
your  appearance,  especially  your 
hair!  Every  hair  is  in  place,  and 
you  know  it's  easiest  to  keep  that 
way  by  setting  and  securing  it 
with  Gayla  hold-bob,  the  all- 
purpose  bobby  pin  more  women 
prefer  over  all  others. 

At  first  glance  bobby  pins  may 
look  alike,  but  women  know  that 
Gayla  hold-bob  with  Flexi-Grip 
is  the  leader  by  superior  per- 
formance... /zoWi'  better,  has  the 
right  combination  of  strength  and 
flexibility,  and  is  easiest  to  use. 
Do  not  accept  ordinary  bobby 
pins— insist  on  Gayla  hold-bob. 


ucruruieJil 


HOLD-BOB 

BOBBY  PINS 
FfexiOHp 


WITH 


GAYLORD  PRODUCTS  INCORPORATED 
Chicago  16,  Illinois 


TV 


OADIO 
MIRROR 


MARCH,   1957 


ATLANTIC    EDITION 


VOL.  47,   NO.  4 


Ann  Higginbotham,  Editorial  Director 
Ann  Mosher,  Editor  Jack  Zasorin,  Art  Director 

Teresa  Buxton,  Managing  Editor  Frances  Maly,  Associate  Art  Director 

Claire  Safran,  Associate  Editor  Joan  Clarke,  Art  Assistant 

Dick  Sheppard,  Assistant  Editor  Bud  Goode,  West  Coast  Editor 


PEOPLE  ON  THE  AIR 

What's  New  From  Coast  to  Coast by  Peter  Abbott  4 

Fabulous  Singing  Sisters  (The  Lennon  Sisters) by  Bud  Goode  25 

My  Boy  Elvis  Presley by  Mildred  Scrivener  30 

"What  The  $64,000  Question  Meant  to  Me":  Mrs.  Frances  De  Berry  32 

Thomas  J.  Kane by  Gladys  Hall  33 

Pepper  Young's  Wife   (Margaret  Draper) by  Mary  Parker  36 

Mr.  and  Miss  Univac  (People  Are  Funny  matches  mates) 

by  Elsa  Molina  38 

Midas  of  Music  and  Mirth  (Victor  Borge) by  Lilla  Anderson  52 

The  Guiding  Light   (picture  story  from  the  beloved  daytime  serial)  54 

I  Love  To  Listen by  Spring  Byington  58 

Don  MacLaughlin's  Reluctant  Double  Life by  Frances  Kish  60 

FEATURES  IN  FULL  COLOR 

Lady  in  Luck  (Erin  O'Brien) by  Judith  Field  40 

Singin'  Fool   (Sanford  Clark) by  Eunice  Field  42 

Don't  Call  Teenagers  "Delinquents"   (The  Nelsons) 

by  Maurine  Remenih  46 

Indiana  Loves  Herb  Shriner by  Cliff  Milnor  48 

Herb  Shriner  Loves  Indiana by  Helen  Bolstad  50 

YOUR  LOCAL  STATION 

Hello,  World  (WNEW) 6 

The  Record  Players:  Meet  Mr.  Wonderful by  Jerry  Warren  8 

Some  Like  It  Straight  (WABC) 12 

Pied  Piper  of  Boston  Town  ( WMEX) 14 

Talent,    Country-Style 20 

Hollywood  Lends  a  Hand 66 

Growing   Pains    (WBC) 67 

YOUR  SPECIAL  SERVICES 

New  Designs  for  Living  (needlecraft  and  transfer  patterns) 10 

TV  Radio  Mirror  Goes  to  the  Movies by  Janet  Graves  18 

New  Patterns  for  You  (smart  wardrobe  suggestions) 21 

Information    Booth 22 

Rock  Around  the  World 24B 

Beauty;  The  Hint  of  a  Tint  (Jan  Miner) by  Mary  Sherwood  64 

Cover  portrait  of  the  Lennon  Sisters  courtesy  of  ABC-TV 


BUY    YOUR    APRIL    ISSUE    EARLY     •    ON    SALE    MARCH    7 


.•<«o 


PUBLISHED       MONTHLY      by      Macfadden 

Publications,  Inc.,  New  York,  N.  Y. 

EXECUTIVE,      ADVERTISING      AND      EDI- 

.TORIAL      OFFICES     at     205      East     42nd 

Street.  New  York,    N.   Y.   Editorial  Branch 

^  Office:    6269    Selma   Ave.,    Hollywood    28, 

X  -*  Calif.     Irving:     S.     Manheinier,     President: 

_ ~:^\^    Lee      Andrews.      Vice      President;      Meyer 

*^0t**        Dworkin,   Secretary  and  Treasurer.  Adver- 
tising: offices   also    in   Chicago,    221    North 
LaSalle  Street,  and  San  Francisco. 

SUBSCRIPTION    RATES:    $3.00    one    year,    U.    S.    and 
Possessions   and  Canada,    $5.00  per  year  for  all  other 

change'  OF  ADDRESS:  6  weeks'  notice  essential. 
When  possible,  please  furnish  stencil  impression  ad- 
dress from  a  recent  issue.  Address  changes  can  be 
made  only  if  you  send  us  your  old,  as  well  as  your 
new  address.  Write  to  TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East 
42nd  Street.  New,  York  17.  N.  Y. 
MANUSCRIPTS:  All  manuscripts  will  be  carefully  con- 


sidered, but  publisher  cannot  be  responsible  for  loss  or 
damage.  It  is  advisable  to  keep  a  duplicate  copy  for 
your  records.  Only  those  manuscripts  accompanied  by 
stamped,  self-addressed  return  envelopes  or  with  suffi- 
cient return  postage  will  be  returned. 
FOREIGN  editions  handled  through  Macfadden  Publi- 
cations International  Corp..  205  East  42nd  Street,  New 
York  17,  N.  Y.  Irving  S.  Manheimer.  President;  Doug- 
las Lockhart,   Vice  President. 

RE-ENTERED  as  Second  Class  Matter,  June  28,  1954. 
at  the  Post  Office  at  New  York,  N.  Y.,  under  the  Act  of 
March  3,  1879.  Authorized  as  Second  Class  mail,  P.O. 
Dept.,  Ottawa,  Ont.,  Canada.  Copyright  1957  by  Mac- 
fadden Publications,  Inc.  AH  rights  reserved  binder  In- 
ternational Copyright  Convention.  All  rights  reserved 
under  Pan-American  Copyright  Convention.  Todos  de- 
rechop  reservados  segun  la  Convencion  Pan-Americana 
de  Propiedad  Literaria  y  Artlstica.  Title  trademark 
registered  in  U.S.  Patent  Office.  Printed  in  U.  S.  A. 
by  Art  Color  Printing  Company. 

Member  of  the  TRUE  STORY  Women's  Grotip 


my  father  know  me  ? 

big  laugh . . 

the  only  time  I  see  him 

is  at  the 

dinner  table^ 

or  when              i       1 

he  wants     ^Pf    \ 

to                    11 

bawl  me 

out 


^^9««-. 


seventeen  isn't  an 
age . . .  it's  an  eternity . . . 
nobody  knows  you . . .  you 
hardly  know  yourself 


THE  YOUNG  STRANGER 


sr...,s.  JAMES  Mac  ARTHUR  •  KIM  HUNTER  •  JAMES  DALY  |^ 

«.x„  JAMES  GREGORY  •  WHIT  BIS  SELL  •  JEFF  SILVER  "^^^ 

WrUten  by  ROBERT  DOZIER  •  Produced  by  STUART  MILLAR  •  Directed  by  JOHN  FRANKENHEIMER 


WHAT'S  NEW  FROM  COAST 


Moppet  Brenda  Lee,  the  new  freckle-faced  rock  'n'  roll 
chon+euse,  claims  a  woman's  privilege — hiding  her  age! 


Actress  Mercedes  McCambridge  studies  a  Wire  Service 
script  with  Bart  Burns.  Mercy  will  soon  turn  producer. 


By  PETER  ABBOTT 


Top  Secret:  Top  brass  at  a  certain  network  are  debat- 
ing a  TV  spec  on  James  Dean.  And  who  would  play 
Dean?  Present  thinking  calls  for  young,  unknown 
actor.  A  wag  suggests  Dunninger  as  emcee.  .  .  .  Believ- 
ing tevfipus  fugit,  a  bright  agency  lad  is  fishing  for 
Mamie  Eisenhower's  presence  on  a  dignified  video 
stanza  to  be  aired  after  Ike's  present  term  expires.  .  .  . 
Hugh  O'Brian,  ABC-TV's  Wyatt  Earp,  is  finally  settling 
down.  After  all,  when  you've  got  the  kind  of  looks 
that  make  women  feel  like  climbing  walls,  it's  just  as 
easy  to  be  a  restless  bachelor  as  a  restless  spouse.  But 
now,  on  his  own,  Hugh  is  reorganizing  himself  business- 
wise  and  in  personal  life.  He's  a  different  kind  of  fellow, 
serious  and  quiet,  who  innocently  says,  "I  want  to  get 
married  very  badly.  I'm  just  not  running  into  the  right 
girl."  Advice  to  eligible  and  eager  women:  If  the  iron 
is  hot,  now  is  the  time  to  strike.  .  .  .  Nanette  Fabray 
celebrating  her  thirtieth  anniversary  in  show  business, 
which  would  make  her  the  most  beautiful  old  woman 
in  the  country  except  that  you  must  keep  in  mind  that 
Nan  went  to  work  at  the  age  of  three  in  "Our  Gang" 
comedies.  .  .  .  Speaking  of  beauties,  Anita  Ellis,  a  fre- 
quent guest  this  season  with  Gobel,  has  a  fascinating 
disc  for  Epic  titled,  "I  Wonder  What  Became  of  Me." 
Anita  has  incredible  flexibility  and  warmth.  If  her 
voice  haunts  you  and  sounds  as  if  you've  heard  her 
before,  you  have.  Anita  Ellis  has  dubbed  voices  for 
many  film  actresses,  including  Rita  Hayworth  and  Vera 
Ellen — you    saw   them    "singing,"   but   heard   Anita. 


Men  &  Babies:  Two  of  the  biggest  names  in  TV  will 
be  fathers  for  the  first  time — and  about  the  same  time. 
Bald,  bold  Phil  Silvers  has  let  it  be  known  that,  come 
late  summer,  around  August  or  Labor  Day,  his  wife, 
former  model  Evelyn  Patrick,  will  present  "Sgt.  Bilko" 
with  a  little  recruit.  .  .  .  Our  other  new  father  will  be 
Hal  March,  and  the  stork  for  Hal  and  Candy  will  arrive 
a  month  or  so  ahead  of  the  Silvers'.  Obstetrician  will 
be  none  other  than  $64,000-winner.  Dr.  Francis  Salva- 
tore.  For  Hal,  this  has  been  a  year  of  decision  and 
slight  confusion.  He  has  given  up  the  title  role  in  the 
May  spec,  "The  George  M.  Cohan  Story."  Says  Hal, 
"There's  only  one  reason.  Cohan  had  a  highly  individual 
dance  style  and  I'm  no  dancer.  Never  danced  profes- 
sionally in  my  life  and  I  don't  believe  I  could  learn  fast 
enough  to  do  the  part  justice.  That's  it."  Now,  with 
the  new  baby  coming,  Hal  and  Candy  are  house-hunting 
more  earnestly  than  ever,  for  they  do  want  to  get  out 
of  Manhattan.  Recently  they  had  an  appointment  to  see 
a  house  in  Connecticut  and  arrived  at  a  specified  time 
to  find  a  full-fledged  cocktail  party  in  swing.  The 
woman  admitted  that  she  had  planned  the  party  that 
way,  so  as  to  have  Hal  and  Candy  as  her  guest-star  at- 
traction.  Hal,  such  a  sweet  guy,  showed  no  resentment. 

Short  Stuff:  The  forecast  is  that,  on  Valentine's  Day, 
TV's  Valiant  Lady,  Helen  Emerson  (Flora  Campbell) 
will  make  Governor  Walker  (John  Graham)  the  happi- 
est politician  in  the  country  when  she  takes  his  hand 


TO  COAST 


Husband  and  wife,  Ernie  and  Edie  Adorns  Kovocs,  will 
bring  radio's  beloved  Easy  Aces  couple  to  television. 


When  the  stork  visits  Hal  and  Candy  March,  sometinne 
this  summer,  he'll  be  assisted  by  a  $64,000  quiz  winner. 


at  the  altar.  We  predict  that  by  1960  our  Valiant  Lady 
will  mold  the  Governor  into  presidential  timber.  Any 
bets?  .  .  .  The  most  fun  album  of  any  year  is  titled 
"Required  Singing"  (Epic).  This  is  "required  singing" 
for  boy  scouts,  bank  presidents,  fashion  models  and  just 
people.  These  are  the  best  American  songs  heard  at 
campfires,  in  the  Ivy  League  and  bath  tubs.  It's  all  fun. 
.  .  .  Marv  Kaplan,  comic  of  Meet  Millie,  returns  to  TV 
in  new  series,  Tom,  Dick  And  Harry.  Now  if  we  can 
just  get  Elena  Verdugo  back  with  that  tantalizing  wink. 
.  .  .  Next  fall,  Mary  Martin  will  star  on  NBC-TV  in 
"Annie  Get  Your  Gun."  This  should  suit  her  very  well. 
Certainly  better  than  "Born  Yesterday."  Very  few 
people  were  satisfied  with  that  performance.  .  .  .  Young 
(24-year-old)  Mark  Murphy  is  a  discovery  on  a  new 
Decca  platter.  No  yawns  here.  His  singing  is  the  kind 
that  tickles  red  corpuscles.  Album  title:  "Meet  Mark 
Murphy."  .  .  .  Talking  about  the  high  cost  of  living, 
sponsors  Pepsi  and  Shulton  pay  out  $555,000  to  light  up 
your  screen  with  Rodgers  &  Hammerstein's  "Cinderella" 
on  March  31st.  .  .  .  Almond-eyed  Melba  Rae,  Search 
For  Tomorrow  star,  married  to  artist  Gil  Shawn.  Says 
Melba,  "Our  biggest  problem  to  date  is  trying  to  share 
closet  space,  of  which  there  is  none."  .  .  .  Martin  Block, 
despite  twenty-one  years  as  dean  of  deejays,  calls  golf 
his  first  love.  And  that  was  where  he  met  his  new, 
blond  wife,  Joyce  Davis.    They  teed  off  well  together. 

Moppet  Rocket:  She's  got  freckles  and  mousy  brown 


hair  and  she's  won  the  hearts  of  Como  and  Frankie 
Laine  and  Jerry  Lewis  and  just  about  everyone  she's 
ever  worked  with.  That's  "ten-year-old"  Brenda  Lee, 
jet-propelled  singing  satellite,  whose  rock  'n'  roll  sing- 
ing has  earned  her  stardom  on  Red  Foley's  Ozark 
Jubilee  and  made  her  the  best-seller  at  Decca.  Such 
has  been  her  zoom  that  she  has  guested  twice  on  the 
Como  show  and  spent  her  birthday  as  an  act  in  a  famed 
Las  Vegas  club.  Little  Brenda,  a  native  of  Alabama, 
now  lives  in  Springfield,  Missouri,  but  you  don't  have 
to  show  her.  She  knows.  She's  sharp.  She's  hep.  She 
loves  Como  and  the  affection  is  mutual,  but  they  made 
rare  dialogue  at  rehearsal.  When  Perry  first  asked, 
"What  can  you  sing,  honey?",  she  replied  graciously, 
"Depends  on  what  the  band  can  play."  But  she  says  it 
so  cute.  She  is  not  precocious.  Merely  incisive.  There 
was  the  moment  at  rehearsal  when  she  and  Perry  were 
to  do  a  duet,  but  Brenda  didn't  know  this.  So  Perry 
stopped,  turned  to  her  and  said,  "Why  don't  you  join 
me?"  She  said,  "Why  not,  honey?  I'm  just  standing 
here  killing  time."  Perry  gave  her  a  hug.  Success  has 
been  piling  up  for  the  65 -pound  meteor.  She  is  at  the 
moment  under  consideration  for  the  starring  role  of 
"The  Shirley  Temple  Story,"  to  be  filmed  by  20th 
Century-Fox.  But  Brenda,  even  at  her  tender  age, 
turned  out  to  be  hoarding  her  years.  When  she  cele- 
brated her  birthday  in  Las  Vegas,  instead  of  having 
one  cake  for  her  eleventh  year  she  had  three  cakes,  for 
she  admitted  to  thirteen.    On    {Continued  on  page  9) 


Solo  in  the  evenings,  Bill  spins  records.   At  noon,  he  teanns  with 
Bill  Harrington.  Then  the  music's  "live,"  the  nnood  still  offbeat. 


William  B.  Williams, 

the  bard  of  Babylon,  carpets 

his  WNEW  world  with  music 


Williams'  interviews  ore  rare.  They  happen  when  someone  like 
Lena  Home  comes  along  "with  an  interesting  story  to  tell." 


WHEN  William  B.  Williams  greets  his  audience  with 
the  words,  "Good  evening,  World,"  he  is  being  de- 
liberately specific.  The  thirtyish  bachelor  about  music 
is  "fascinated  by  the  fact  that  there  might  be  intelligent 
people  on  other  planets  than  ours."  The  adjective  "in- 
telligent" is  also  chosen  with  care.  "It  may  sound  like 
boasting,"  says  Bill,  "but  I  think  my  audience  is  more  in- 
telligent." .  .  .  But  until  a  transmitter  is  built  to  reach  a 
possible  outer-space  audience.  Bill  confines  his  subtle, 
urbane  approach  to  the  Station  WNEW  wave-length. 
Seven  evenings  a  week,  from  nine  to  eleven,  he  spins 
records  and  transcriptions  for  earthlings.  Once,  and 
only  once,  has  this  included  an  Elvis  Presley  recording. 
Bill  was  making  an  appeal  for  a  charity  when  a  listener 
— a  man! — offered  $250  for  the  charity,  if  Bill  would 
spin  an  Elvis  disc.  Bill  obliged  but,  he  now  adds,  "I've 
since  been  offered  even  more  money  if  I  never  play  an- 
other one."  Between  records,  Bill's  attack  is  casual  and 
offbeat.  "Seduction,  rather  than  attack,"  he  says,  "would 
be  the  word."  The  tall,  dark  and  handsome  product  of 
Babylon-on-Long-Island  also  turns  up  Monday  through 
Saturday  at  noon  with  Harrington,  Williams  &  Co.,  an 
hour  show  where  the  music  is  "live."     Once  a  week.  Bill 


sings.  "We  also  have  a  singer,"  he  grins,  "who  is  known 
as  a  singer."  .  .  .  William  B.  Williams — "The  'B'  stands 
for  nothing,  it's  there  to  break  up  the  monotony" — could 
recite  the  rosters  of  the  leading  bands  when  other  kids 
his  age  were  reeling  off  the  names  of  baseball  players. 
A  former  NBC  page  boy  and  Syracuse  University  stu- 
dent. Bill  first  went  to  work  for  Newark's  WAAT,  then 
moved  over  to  WNEW  in  1944.  Eventually,  Bill  might 
like  to  transfer  his  radio  mood  to  television.  "Day- 
time," he  specifies.  "It's  less  demanding  and  more  last- 
ing." .  .  .  Bill  is  not  especially  athletic.  He  exercises 
his  critical  faculties  on  the  current  crop  of  TV  shows. 
"Sometimes,  though,"  he  says,  "I  walk  to  work."  (Bill 
lives  some  four  blocks  from  the  studio.)  Having  ex- 
plored the  more  glamorous  aspects  of  a  bachelor's  life, 
there  are  days  when  Bill  looks  with  enthusiasm  on  the 
prospect  of  matrimony.  "The  girl  would  have  to  have 
more  patience  than  any  woman  has  yet  been  born  with," 
he  says.  She'd  probably  be  a  career  girl.  "But,"  Bill 
adds,  "most  career  girls  are  intelligent  enough  to  give 
up  their  careers  if  they  think  they  might  find  happiness 
in  other  areas."  Meanwhile,  the  wedding  march,  like 
rock  'n'  roll,  is  missing  from  the  Williams  microphone. 


European  Scientist  Discovers  Food 
That  Makes  Skin  Look  Young  Again! 


39  YEAR-OLD  WOMAN'S  FACE  LOOKS  14  YEARS 
YOUNGER  Ai=TER  CLINICAL  TESTI 

Swedish  scientist  demonstrates  how  new  skin  foods  formula^  based  on  Scandinavian 
beauty  secret^  smoothes  away  lines,  wrinkles  .  .  .  improves  flabby ,  dry  skin! 

STOCKHOLM,  SWEDEN,  (IMS.) — At  a  dramatic  news  conference  today,  Dr.  Max  Laserow, 
Swedish  skin  scientist  revealed  that  he  had  finally  discovered  how  to  restore  youthful  looking 
beauty  to  a  wrinkled,  dry,  old-looking  skin.  The  secret  is  a  new  scientific  development  based  on 
age-old  Scandinavian  beauty  methods.  A  special  food  formula  that  works  to  nourish  skin 
tissues  in  a  completely  new  and  different  way! 


Then  right  before  the  eyes  of  the  Assembled  scientific 
reporters  and  beauty  editors.  Dr.  Laserow  demonstrated  how 
a  simple  5-mlnute  treatment  program  made  a  39  year-old 
womaa  look  14  years  younger  I  After  Introducing  39  year- 
old  Mrs.  H.  Suedlund  to  the  reporters.  Dr.  Laserow  told 
of  the  varied  skin  problems  this  39  year-old  womim  had 
suffered  from  .  .  .  skin  problems  typical  of  women  from  age 
30  to  65  who  look  old  before  their  time.  Mrs.  Suedlund  had 
the  usual  stubborn  wrinkles  on  the  forehead  ,  .  .  the  typical 
unattractive  crows'  feet  about  the  eyes  ...  an  unusual 
number  of  uigly  lines  around  the  nose  and  moUth  .  .  . 
sagging,  lined  skin  under  the  chin  .  .  .  loose,  wrinkled  flesh 
at  the  neck  .  .  .  and  overall,  a  tired,  dull,  lifeless  CQm- 
plexion  and  dry,  old-looking  skint 

Then  Dr.  Laserow  demonstrated  his  treatment,  he  took 
a  soft  whitish  mixture  frtHn  a  Jar  and  began  to  lightly  spread 
it  over  Mi-s.  Suedlund's  face,  softly  patting  it  on  .  .  .  never 
rubbing  It  In  .  .  .  never  massaging.  And  as  we  watched,  the 
whitish  mixture  began  to  disappear  as  it  penetrated  deep 
dou-n  into  the  woman's  skin.  Then  Dr.  Laserow  showed  a 
series  of  photos  made  during  the  test. 

First,  we  saw  how  those  stubborn  wrinkles  started  to 
Smoothen  out  .  .  .  until  Mrs.  Suedlund's  forehead  appeared 
clearer,    less   lined    and    looked    almost    14    years    younger. 

Next,  scores  of  the  unattractive  crows'  feet  seemed  to  melt 
away  ...  so  that  the  skin  around  the  eyes  became  softer, 
less  wrinkled.  Then  a  number  of  the  ugly  lines  around  the 
nose  and  mouth  seemed  to  fade  away  before  our  eyes  ,  .  . 
and  that  whole  facial  area  was  smoother,  more  even.  And 
then  as  we  watched  the  sagging,  lined  skin  under  the  chin 
and  the  loose,  wrinkled  flesh  at  the  neck  appeared  to  grow 
tighter,  firmer  .  .  .  until  the  chin  and  neck  looked  years 
younger.  And  finally,  Mrs.  Suedlund's  whole  skin  and 
complexion  began  to  glow  with  such  fresh,  vibrant  youthful- 
ness  that  you  could  hardly  believe  It  had  ever  been  tired. 
dull  and  dry. 

And  so  Dr.  Laserow's  new  discovery  had  transformed  this 
39  year-old  woman  who  looked  old  before  her  time.  Yes. 
b^ore  our  very  eyes  she  had  come  to  look  14  years  yoimger! 

What  This  Discovery  Means  To  Youl 

Now.  can  you  imagine  what  this  discovery  means  to  you 
If  you  are  a  woman  over  25  ...  if  you  are  a  woman  who 
looks  older  than  you  have  to  ...  if  you  are  a  woman  who 
wants  to  look  as  young  as  you  possibly  can?  It  means  that 
for  the  first  time  science  has  found  how  to  help  insure  and 
protect  the  natural  youthful-looking  beauty  of  your  skin. 
It  means  that  at  last  there  is  a  proven  scientific  way  to  help 
recapture  the  natural  clear,  smooth  skin  that  may  have  been 
stolen  from  you.  And  It  means  that  now  with  Dr.  Laserow's 
discover}'  your  fa4.e  can  start  looking  younger  again  .  .  . 
instead  of  looking  older  than  it  really  should.  But  read 
what  Dr.  Laserow  himself  says  about  your  beauty  problems. 
When  the  almost  magical  transformation  of  Mrs.  Suedlund 
had  been  demonstrated.  Dr.  Laserow  began  to  talk:  "This 
may  seem  like  a  miracle  to  unscientific  eyes,  but  It  is  really 
a  simple,  natural  process  based  on  facts  scientists  have 
known  for  years.  What  I  have  done  was  to  provide  certain 
skin  foods  to  an  unnaturally  wrinkled,  old-looking,  beauty- 
starved  skin.  And  this  'feeding'  was  responsible  for  the 
transformation  you  have  just  seen.  The  work  and  testing  of 
this  new  skin  food  formula  took  over  20  years  .  .  .  and 
hundreds  of  experiments!  But  now  that  it  is  developed,  it  is 
so  simple  to  use  that  almost  any  woman  could  apply  iv 
herself  in  only  a  few  minutest" 

The  Beauty  Secret  Of  Swedish  Women! 

The  world  has  always  known  that  the  most  beautiful 
women  .  .  .  the  clearest  smoothest  complexions  are  to  be 
found  in  the  Scandinavian  countries  and  Sweden  in  parti- 
cular. And  so  wheo  Dr.  Laserow  began  his  research  into 
women'^  skin  problems,  he  first  tried  to  discover  the  reasons 
for  the  imusual  skin  beauty  of  Swedish  women.  He  dis- 
covered that  this  skin  beauty  was  usually  only  true  of 
women  from  the  farm  and  country  areas  of  Sweden  .  .  .  and 
that  most  women  in  Swedish  cities  suffered  from  the  same 
skin  problems  that  w<mien  all  over  the  world  have.  But  in 
these  farm  and  country  areas  he  did  find  amazing  and 
astoni^ihingly  youthful  looking  skins  and  on  women  past 
middle  age.  He  found  women  of  45  whose  faces  were  as  fresh 
and  imlined  as  some  women  half  their  age.  He  saw  wom«i 
Of  55  with  as  clear,  smooth  skins  and' complexions  as  nature 
had  meant  them  to  have.  He  even  discovered  women  over  60 
who  actually  looked  better  than  many  30  year-old  women. 
But  when  he  asked  them  what  their  beauty  secret  was, 
woman  after  woman  told  him  they  did  not  know. 

They  regarded  their  unusual  beauty  as  a  gift  of  God  and 
nature.  They  used  no  beauty  preparations,  no  creams, 
nothing  1  And  so  Dr.  Laserow  began  years  of  experiments, 
and  tests  to  discover  the  reason  why  .  .  .  the  secret  of 
these  women's  astonishingly  youthful-looking  skin  beauty. 

Now  Yqu  Con  "Feed**  Youthful-Looking  Beauty 

Back  Into  Your  Skin! 

After  many  years  and  literally  hundreds  of  experiments. 
Dr.  Laserow  discovered  that  part  of  the  secret  was  in  the 
diet  of  these  Swedish  farm  women.  That  all  their  lives  they 
had  eaten  certain  foods  containing  special  ingredients  that 
gave  extra,  added  nourishment  to  their  skins.  And  that  this 
extra  nourishment  helped  keep  their  skins  fresh  and  youthful 
in  appearance  long  after  many  women's  faces  began  to  look 
old  and  become  lined.  And  so  Dr.  Laserow  began  another 
series  of  tests  and  experiments  to  develop  a  formula  that 
could  be  applied  directly  to  the  skin  and  would  work  like 
these  "beauty  foods'.  After  many  years  he  was  rewarded  with 
siKCPss.  Hp  developed  a  "skin  fwxl'  concentrate  that  he  put 
into  a  base  with  other  helpful  ingredients.  And  he  found 
that  when  this  formula  was  applied  to  the  face.  It  was 
absorbed  directly  into  the  skin  .  .  .  and  It  promoted  youthful- 
looking  skin  beautyl  You  see,  this  super -powerful  skin  food 
concentrate  goes   to  work  Id   an   amazingly  short  time  to 


nourish  skin  tissues  .  .  .  promote  fresh,  natural  youthful- 
looking  beauty  .  .  .  and  fight  lines,  wrinkles,  crows'  feet 
and  so  on. 

How  This  Skin  Food  Works  For  Beauty  Against 
Lines,  Wrinkles,  Crows*  Feet  And  Sagging  Dry  Skin. 

Dr.  Laserow  has  named  this  chemical  skin  food  concen- 
trate 'LIVIGEN'.  And  HVIGEX  works  like  a  food,  such  as 
bread  .  .  .  except  that  it  is  a  special  food  for  the  skin. 
LIVIGEN  works  in  a  natural  way  to  give  extra  nourishment 
to  skin  tissues  and  help  make  them  look  young  .  .  .  help 
smooth  wrinkles,  lines,   etc. 

The  process  is  a  simple  and  natural  one.  Tou  see,  many 
women  find  their  skin  looks  old.  wrinkled  and  sagging,  and 
becomes  dry  and  flaky  before  it  really  should.  Dr.  Laserow's 
studies  Indicate  that  this  often  occurs  when  our  skin  tlssiies 
do  not  get  needed  nourishment.  Deprived  of  thi^;  natural 
nourishment,  our  skin  tends  to  look  unusually  wrinkled. 
lined  and  dry.  Dr.  Laserow  found  that  this  happens  because 
the  tis.sues  and  glands  under  the  surface  skin  do  not 
fimction  properly  to  keep  the  surface  skin  naturally  taut 
and  tight  ...  to  provide  adequate  normal  oils  and  fluids. 
LIVIGEN  is  a  super -powerful  skin  food  concentrate  that 
gives  natural  nourishment  to  under -nourished  skin  tissues. 
As  the  skin  absorbs  LIVIGEN.  it  provides  new  nourishment 
and  helps  promote  nomial  skin  functions.  LIVIGEN  helps 
the  skin  provide  the  normal  oils  and  fluids  it  needs  for 
natural  beauty. 

With  this  new  nourishment,  the  'skin  is  better  able  to 
work  toward  this  natural  beauty.  It  can  start  to  fight 
against  unnatural  lines  and  wrinkles  .  .  .  against  unusually 
dry,  ^aky  skin.  And  so  the  skin  begins  to  look  smoother, 
and  clearer  .  .  .  dr>-.  fiakiness  starts  to  fade  away. 

These  are  the  7  skin 
problems  Dr.  Laserow 
worked  to  solve. 

1.  Lines  on  forehead 

2.  Lines  at  corner  of  eyes 

3.  Lines  under  eyes 

4.  Lines  around  nose 

5.  Nose-to-mouth  lines 

6.  Lines  around  mouth 

7.  Lines  on  neck,  under  chin 


Now  Look  Up  To  15  Years  Younger  with 
Dr.  Loserow*s  5-Minute  Treatment  Program! 

Only  a  fool  could  expect  that  skin  problems  that  devel- 
oped over  the  years  could  be  reversed  or  dealt  with  in  a 
few  minutes.  However,  you  havfe  Just  witnessed  tKe  almost 
miraculous  transformation  of  Mrs.  Suedlund.  Here  is  what 
it  means  to  you!  Dr,  Laserow's  5-mlnute  treatment  program 
can  accomplish  wonders  .  .  .  but  you  must  use  it  faithfullv. 
in  a  scientific  way  for  30  days.  Follow  closely  Dr.  Laserow's 
four-step  method: 

ONE:  Every  night  wash  your  face  carefully  with  waiTU 
water.  Then  dab  and  pat  dry  ...  do  not  rub! 

TWO:  Next,  take  some  LIVIGEN  with  your  fingertips 
and  softly  work  your  Angers  together  to  reactivate.it. 

THREE:  Softly,  lightly,  apply  LIVIGEN  to  your  lace 
and  skin  ...  to  the  wrinkles,  lines,  to  the  sagging  flesh 
at  the  chin  and  neck  I  Hien  watch  as  it  starts  to  be 
absorbed  into  the  skin  ...  as  it  begins  to  go  to  work  for  you ! 

FOUR:  Then  relax,  sleep,  dream  of  beauty  .  .  .  because 
something  like  a  miracle  is  taking  place,  you  are  gaining 
the    youthful-looking    beauty    nature    meant    you    to    have. 

Yes,  If  you  follow  this  scientific  treatment  for  only  30 
days  you  will  begin  to  see  astonishing  results.  Tou  will  start 
to  recapture  the  natural  beauty  that  an  improperly  function- 
ing skin  may  have  robbed  you  of.  You  will  stop  looking  older 
than  you  have  to  .  .  .  older  than  nature  meant  you  to.  If 
you're  25  you'll  know  you  are  helping  to  protect  the  youth- 
ful freshness  oi  your  skin  and  complexion.  If  you're  35 
you  win  start  to  see  unnatural  lines,  wrinkles  and,  crows' 
feet  begin  to  disappear .  .  .  you'll  start  to  look  years 
younger.  If  you're  45,  unusually  sagging  skin  under  the 
chin,  wrinkled,  loose  flesh  at  the  neck  will  start  to  look 
finuer,  tauter  .  .  .  those  extra  years  you  carried  will  begin 
to  fade  away  I 

And  if  you're  55,  60  or  even  65,  ugly  lines  at  the  nose 
and  mouth  will  begin  to  appear  smoother  .  .  .  you'll  be 
astonished  to  have  people  tell  you  how  much  younger  and 
better  you  look.  And  you  will  feel  and  look  younger. 

Yes,  as  you  spread  Dr.  Laserow's  formula  on  dry,  flaky 
skin,  it  starts  to  look  smoother,  softer.  Your  whole  face 
begins  looldng  yoimger.  You  gain  new  attractiveness,  new 
aeslreableness.  Vou  look  in  the  mirror  and  you  can  hardly 
recognize  yourself.  And  it's  so  simple  ...  so  easy  ...  so 
pleasant   with   Dr,    Laserow's   proven   scientific    treatment. 

No  More  Face  Creams,  Hormones,  Face  Masques 

Or  Coverups! 

LIVIGEN  works  in  a  completely  new  and  different  way 
from  beauty  preparations  of  the  past.  It's  not  a  face  cream, 
hormone  or  face  masaue.  If  like  many  women  you  have 
spent  fortunes  on  these  preparations  and  without  real 
success  .  .  .  now  at  last  there  is  a  new  proven  road  to 
beautyt  Face  creams,  masques,  etc,  often  fail  because  they 
work  only  on  the  surface.  They  merely  cover  skin  problems 
instead  of  really  working  against  them.  LH'IGEN  is  not 
a  cover-up  .  .  .  .it  penetrates  into  your  skin.  It  nourishes 
your  skin  and  helps  promote  the  natural  skin  functions 
that  lead  to  true  beautyl 


Dr.  Max  Laserow,  Swedish  scientist  who  has  developed  a 
special  'skin  food'  formula  that  'feeds'  youthful-looking 
beauty  back  into  the  skin. 

Docfor's  Clinical  Tests  And  laboratory  Test 

Prove  New  formula  Successful 

In  Case  After  Case. 

A  series  of  clinical  tests  by  top  skin  doctors  in  Denmark 
and  Sweden  have  proven  new  formula  IIVIGEN  works 
where  other  methods  foil.  Independent  loborotory  test  adds 
more  successful  case  histories. 

Case  Histories: 

A  group  of  women  used  LIVIGEN  under  test  conditions 
for  approximately  a  SO-day  period.  Tests  were  conducted 
by  medical  doctors  and  an  independent  laboratory.  Im- 
provement was  noted  In  97%  of  the  cases. 

Woman  after  woman  gained  smoother  skins.  Woman 
after  woman  praised  this  wwiderful  new  discovery.  And 
case  after  case  showed  more  improvement  than  even  the 
doctors  expected. 

Case  History:  Dr.  A.  P.  of  Copenhagen,  Denmark  reports 
he  tested  LIVIGEN  on  5  women.  In  all  5  cases,  the 
women's  skin  looked  smoother  after  the  LIvigen  treatment. 

Case  History:  Independent  laboratory  test  shows  LIVIOKN 
has  deflnite  wrinkle- removing  effects.  Laboratory  reports 
(hat  a  special  control  test  was  made  with  LIVIGEN  tested 
<»i  left  side  of  face,  and  a  normal  face  cream  used  on 
right  side  to  determine  difference.  Results  again  demon- 
strated LIVIGEN's  effectiveness. 

Case  History:  Two  doctors.  Dr.  P.  B.  and  Dr.  H.  H.  in 
cooperative  test  report  from  Copenhagen  that  in  all  cases 
tested  skin  looked  smoother  after  LIVIGEN  treatment. 
Note:   Affidavits  of  the  above   are   available   to   interested 
parties. 

Livigen  Is  Not  For  Sale! 
Limited  Amount  Available  On  Free  Triall 

LIVIGEN  is  so  new  it  is  not  even  available  in  drug  or 
cosmetic  stores  yetl  However,  a  limited  supply  is  available  to 
women  in  this  area.  You  can  take  advantage  of  this  un- 
equalled opportunity  by  mailing  in  a  reservation  for  a 
30-day  supply  of  LIVIGEN  on  the  free  trial  basis.  Yoiu- 
30-day  supply  will  be  shipped  to  you  immediately  under 
the  te^ms  of  the  30-day  free  trial  offer. 

Here  is  all  you  do.  Fill  out  the  coupon  below.  Then 
either  send  $4.a8  plus  tax  ...  or  pay  postman  $4.98.  plus 
tax  and  C.O.D.  handling  &  postage  on  arrival.  This  money 
is  returned  to  you  if  desired  at  the  end  of  the  30-day  trial. 
But  we  must  ask  you  for  it  Initially  as  evidence  of  your 
good  faith.  When  your  LIVIGEN  arrives,  start  applying  it 
with  Dr.  Laserow's  4-step  method.  You  will  start  to  gain 
tliB  natural-looking  beauty  you  should  have.  You  will  stop 
looking  old  betore  your  time  .  .  .  older  than  you  have  to. 

You  will  start  to  see  unnatural  foreliead  lines,  crows' 
feet,  ugly  nose,  mouth  lines  look  smoother  .  .  .  unusually 
sagging,  wrinkled  skin  under  the  thin  and  at  the  ne.k 
appear  firmer,  tauter,  more  youthful-looking  ,  .  .  dry, 
flaky  skin  will  look  softer,  more  even.  Yes,  you'll  start 
looking  younger,  up  to  15  years  younger  .  .  .  and  you'll 
feel  so  much  better.  And  it  will  all  be  so  simple,  easy  and 
pleasant  with  Dr.  Laserow's  scientific  treatments. 

And  remember,  if  you  so  desire,  if  you  are  dissatisfied  in 
any  way,  you  get  your  money  back  at  any  lime  during,  or 
at  the  end  of  the  30-day  trial.  Merely  send  a  letter  with 
the  cap  from  the  LIVIGEN  jar  and  your  full  purchase 
price  will^be  immediately  refunded.  But  keep  your  LiVlGEN 
as  our  gift.  So  you  are  not  buying  .  .  .  only  trying  .  .  . 
and  it  doesn't  have  to  cost  you  a  penny! 

SPECIAL  NOTE:  The  30-day  supply  of  LIVIGEN  will 
retail  for'  $9.98  when  it  becomes  available  at  drug  and 
cosmetic  stores.  So  expensive  because  LIVIGEN'S  ingredi- 
ents are  so  imusual  and  costly.  Any  women  who  can  expect 
new  youthful -looking  beauty  from  LIVIGEN  will  feel  even 
the  $9.98  price  is  a  bargain.  But  for  a  limited  time  you 
have  this  special  opportunity  to  get  LIVIGEN  on  the  free 
trial  offer  and  at'  a  50%  saving  .  .  .  act  now  because  this 
may  be  the  last  time  this  offer  can  be  made! 
Copyrighted  1956 

r - -i 

i     LIVIGEN  LABORATORIES  SALES  CORP.  I 

}    Dpt.  TS3,  31  West  47th  Street,  N.  Y.  36,  N.  Y.     | 

I  Please  send  me  the  30-day  supply   of  LIVIGEN  | 

I  under  the  30-day  free  trial  plan.  I  understand  that  ■ 

I  if  I  am  dissatisfied,  and  so  desire,  I  may  get  a  com-  . 

I  plete  refund  during  or  at  the  end  of  the   30   days.  J 

I  n  I  enclose  $4.98  plus  50c  tax,  complete  price  to  be  ■ 

I  refunded    at    my    request.     ( I    save    approximately  J 

I  85c    in    postage,    handling    and    C.O.D.    charges.)  j 

I  D  Send  LIVIGEN  C.O.D.   (I  will  pay  C.O.D.,  hand-  | 

I  ling,  postage  charges  plus  tax.  Same  money-back  ' 

_  refund  policy  applies,  of  course.)  ■ 

j     NAME: I 

I     ADDRESS: | 

t  I 

I      CITY  &  STATE: ■ 

L . 


THE  RECORD  PLAYERS 


Every  month,  your  favorite 
disc   jockeys   will   go   on   record 
with   views   and   interviews   in 
TV  Radio  Mirror's  new  feature, 
"The  Record  Players." 
Jerry  Warren,  the  all-night  emcee 
of  New  York's  Station  WINS, 
leads  off  with  an  interview 
with  Sammy  Davis,  Jr. 


±   IVIi-.  Woridei-ful 


By  JERRY  WARREN 


An  Interview  With  Sammy  Davis,  Jr. 

Jerry:  Sammy,  do  you  ever  have  that 
tremendous  urge  to  join  a  star  on 
stage?  If  I  were  a  performer  with  the 
kind  of  talent  you  have,  it  would  sort  of 
burst  out  every  time  I'd  hear  the  bell. 
Sammy :  I  think  that  age  and  the  better 
part  of  discretion  or  valor  simmer  you 
down  a  little  bit  and  you  can  sit  and 
watch  someone  else  without  saying, 
"Gee,  I  wish  I  was  up  there."  I  used 
to  be  that  way  six  or  seven  years  ago. 
Now,  I  can  sit  and  enjoy  a  little  laugh. 
I  can  very  happily  say  that  I  was  just 
about  the  first  to  stand  up  the  night 
Roberta  Sherwood  opened  at  the  Copa. 
You  know,  there  was  almost  a  spon- 
taneous reaction  from  the  audience. 
Jerry:  What  do  you  think  was  the 
most  outstanding  part  of  her  act? 
Sammy:  It  is  just  the  complete  sledge- 
hammer effect  her  performance  had  on 
everyone.  In  this  very  jaded  business, 
people  have  preconceived  ideas  about 
what  a  singer  of  songs  looks  like  or 
does.  Breaking  such  a  preconceived 
idea  is  dangerous — unless  you  do  it  in 
such  a  way  that  it  captures  and  fires 
the  imagination.  And  she  did  just  that. 
She  started  singing  with  the  mike  from 
the  back  of  the  room,  walking  down 
with  glasses  and  a  little  sweater  on 
her  shoulders.  When  people  saw  it  was 
sincere  and  legit,  they  were  disarmed. 
Jerry:  What  do  you  think  is  the  tre- 
mendous quality  that  makes  the  differ- 
ence between  an  amateur  and  a  pro? 
Sammy:  Many  professionals  will  be 
T  amateurs  for  as  long  as  they  perform, 
V  and  many  amateurs  have  that  profes- 
"  sional  knack.  There  are  many  names 
for  it — stage  presence,  know-how.  .  .  . 
It    is    something    the    performer    has 


within  himself  and  there's  almost  a 
chemical  reaction  from  the  people  sit- 
ting in  the  audience  when  he  gets 
through  to  them.  This  is  something 
very  few  people  have  nowadays.  Many 
old  and  very  great  performers  had  it. 
Certainly  Jolson  had,  and  Jessel,  Bert 
Williams,  Eva  Tanguay.  Now  in  the 
days  of  records  and  everything,  it  is 
not  a  set  prerequisite  to  have  it.  You 
can  just  sing  in  a  mike  and  that's  it! 
Jerry:  Is  the  viewpoint  that  "This  is 
a  business  and  this  is  the  way  I  make 
my  living,  I  am  going  to  do  a  good  job"? 
Sammy:  A  kid  who  wants  to  be  in 
show  business  should  not  confuse  him- 
self with  glamour  and  the  gaiety  and 
parties.  The  main  purpose  is  a  busi- 
ness and  a  trade.  You  know  what  you 
are  capable  of  doing  and  you  know 
what  you  can  do  to  learn  the  trade. 
You  try  to  define,  to  file  off  the  rough 
edges.  The  extra  things  that  happen, 
well,  that's  extra.  That's  like  whipped 
cream  on  top  of  already  good  cake. 
Jerry:  Speaking  of  extra  good  things, 
what  kind  of  girls  do  you  prefer? 
Sammy:  Don't  pin  me  down,  daddy, 
I'm  engaged.  Don't  start  with  me.  I 
can't  make  any  more  statements.  I 
can't  even  say  I  like  girls,  or  my  girl — 
a  really  beautiful  girl — flies  in  from 
Chicago  with  a  hatchet  and  hits  me 
pow,  right  on  the  head.  No,  really  I'm 
engaged  and  I'm  very  happy. 
Jerry:  Has  it  been  publicized?  I  mean, 
who  but  me  doesn't  know  about  it? 
Sammy:  Publicized!  We  might  become 
the  new  Eddie  Fisher-Debbie  Reynolds. 
Jerry:  Hey,  that's  very  exciting.  Do 
you  plan  to  get  married  soon? 
Sammy:  I'd  like  to  wait  until  our 
show,  "Mr.  Wonderful,"  closes,  which 
will   be   in   February,   so   I   can   have 


some  semblance  of  a  honeymoon.  I 
don't  want  to  do  the  bit  where  you  go 
out  of  town  for  two  days  and  that's  it. 
Jerry:  What  will  this  mean  for  you, 
closing  in  February? 
Sammy:  I'll  probably  take  a  few  weeks 
off,  prepare  my  new  act  for  night  clubs. 
Jerry:  How  about  motion  pictures? 
Sammy:  I  have  a  couple  of  motion 
pictures  to  do.  I'm  doing  a  picture  with 
the  illustrious  Mr.  Sinatra,  a  picture 
called  "The  Jazz  Train."  Then  I'm 
going  to  do  a  picture  at  Metro  called 
"St.  Louis  Woman."  And,  then,  I'm 
going  to  do  a  picture  for  Universal- 
International  whenever  they  get  a 
script  for  the  Bill  Robinson  story. 

LIGHTLY  IN  THE  GROOVE: 

Three  proposals  came  her  way  when 
Jill  Corey  told  Ken  Manley  of  WGUY 
in  Bangor,  Me.,  that  she  might  make 
the  money,  but  the  man  she  marries 
will  spend  it!  .  .  .  On  the  air,  Jerry 
Lewis  had  deejays  repeat  after  him, 
word  for  word,  that  they  would  play 
his  new  record,  "Come  Rain  or  Come 
Shine."  By  the  time  he  got  to  Buddy 
Dean  of  Baltimore's  WITH,  Jerry'd 
bought  a  book  on  hypnotism — and 
Buddy's  been  playing  the  disc  twice  an 
hour  ever  since,  even  at  home.  .  .  .  All 
in  one  week,  Patti  Page,  Eddie  Fisher, 
Jeri  Southern  and  Nat  Cole  guested 
with  Larry  Brown  on  his  950  Club  over 
WPEN  in  Philadelphia.  A  dream  that 
he  had  to  pay  their  going  salaries  out 
of  his  own  paycheck  is  still  keeping 
Larry  awake  nights.  .  .  .  Annette  War- 
ren's new  record,  "The  Right  Kind  of 
Love  (From  the  Wrong  Kind  of  Guy)," 
voted  most  realistic  new  love  ballad 
by  Joe  Pyne  of  WILM  in  Wilmington. 


WHAT'S  NEW 

(Continued  from  page  5) 


They  rock  'n'  roll  in  Panama,  too,  re- 
ports NBC  announcer  Jack  Costello. 


this  occasion,  when  interviewed,  she  ad- 
mitted to  preferring  Fats  Domino's  sing- 
ing to  that  of  Presley's.  When  asked  her 
favorite  hobby,  she  drawled,  "Well,  let 
me  think — I  guess  it  would  be  catching 
frogs  and  climbing  trees." 

It  Should  Happen  to  Me — or  You:  Marie 
Wilson  goes  to  work  on  new  comedy 
series,  tales  of  a  gal  who  inherits  a  for- 
tune. However,  since  My  Friend  Irma 
flopped  three  years  ago,  Marie  has  been 
collecting  100-grand  a  year  from  CBS  for 
doing  nothing.  .  .  .  Jan  Miner  gave  up  role 
as  Second  Mrs.  Burton  for  reasons  to  do 
with  time  and  money,  but  not  necessarily 
in  that  order.  She  retains  lead  of  Julie 
on  Hilltop  House,  continues  as  frequent 
dramatic  star  on  the  Bob  Montgomery 
show,  and  is  still  up  to  her  chin  in  com- 
mercials. Actually,  it  is  the  commercials 
that  finally  forced  her  decision.  She  and 
hubby,  actor  Terry  O'SuUivan,  have  been 
constantly  on  run  and  fly  between  New 
York  City  and  Los  Angeles  to  do  live 
commercials.  And  the  pay  is  handsome. 
For  anyone,  it  is  hard  to  turn  dovra.  For 
actors,  who  are  bred  on  insecurity,  it  is 
nigh  impossible.  This  will  give  you  an 
idea,  although  the  story  is  about  a  young 
actress  who  is  nowhere  near  the  same 
class  as  Jan.  The  gal,  a  neophyte,  was 
hired  to  film  a  commercial  for  TV.  She 
worked  all  day.  Got  fifty  bucks.  Not 
much  when  you  consider  it  was  the  first 
job  she'd  had  in  two  weeks.  But,  as  she 
explained  to  another  yoimg  actress,  "It 
was  only  the  beginning.  Now  every  time 
they  use  the  commercial  I  get  another  $50. 
To  date,  it's  come  to  a  thousand  dollars." 
Her  friend  replied,  "It  should  only  happen 
to  me." 

For  Kats  &  Kiddie-Kats:  For  hep  cats, 
blond  Chris  Connor,  a  Kenton  grad  in  the 
June  Christy  manner.  Chris  has  a  great 
collection  of  ballads.  Honorable  mention 
goes  to  her  platters  on  different  labels. 
For  the  Bethlehem  label,  it  is  "Chris  Sings 
Lullabys  of  Birdland"  and  for  Atlantic  she 
is  in  lower  case,  "he  loves  me,  he  loves 
me  not."  You  can't  go  wrong  with  either 
disc.  .  .  .  And  for  kiddie-kats  there  is  some 
happy  digging  in  Coral's  "Children's  Holi- 
day," a  joyful,  original  batch  of  holiday 
songs  swimg  by  the  McGuire  Sisters. 
Chris    is    the     (Continued    on    page    11) 


New  sunshine  yellow 

shampoo 

puts  sunny 

sparkle  in  hair! 


'^^'^POC 


egry 


v.. 


silkier. . .  softer. . .  easier  to  manage 


Brunette?  Blonde?  Redhead? 
You'll  thrill  when  you  see  how  your 
hair  responds  to  the  conditioning 
benefits  of  new  shampoo  plus  egg  ! 
It's  just  what  your  hair  needs — for 
new  life  and  luster,  for  rich  silky 
softness.  You'll  love  the  "feel"  of 
your  hair — ^the  way  it  manages. 

That's  the  magic  conditioning  touch 
of  SHAMPOO  PLUS  egg!  This  new 
kind  of  shampoo  cleans  cleaner, 
rinses  super  fast.  It's  the  one  really 
different  shampoo  .  .  .  from  its  sun- 
shine yellow  color  to  the  lilting 
sunny  sparkle  it  puts  in  your  hair! 
Try  it  once,  you'll  use  it  always. 

Economical  29c,  59c,  $1. 


shampoo 

plus  egg" 


trade        marK 


NEW  DESIGNS  FOR  LIVING 


7081 — Pretty  wrap-around  halter  top. 
Make  it  in  gay  stripes  for  casual  wear; 
with  embroidery  to  star  above  dressy 
skirts.  Misses'  Sizes  12-14;  16-18  in- 
cluded. Pattern,  transfer,  directions.  25^ 

723 — Fashion  "must"  for  the  mother- 
to-be.  This  graceful  top  is  a  wonder- 
fully cool  and  becoming  style  for 
summer.  Trim  pockets  of  solid  version 
with  embroidery.  Maternity  Misses' 
Sizes  10-12;  14-16  included.  Pattern, 
transfer,  directions.  25^ 

7109 — Brighten  your  kitchen  acces- 
sories with  these  gay  motifs.  These  de- 
signs look  like  gingham  applique — but 
are  easy  5-to-the-inch  cross-stitch. 
Transfer    of    six — 5^/^x6    inches.    25^' 

7180  —  Quick  -  to  -  crochet  medallion 
lends  itself  to  both  fine  cotton  and 
string.  Make  small  articles,  or  plan  a 
bedspread  or  tablecloth.  Complete  di- 
rections included.  254 

768 — Use  scraps  of  many  different  fab- 
rics to  make  this  colorful  applique 
quilt.  Practical!  Each  butterfly  is  a 
single  patch.  Pattern  for  applique  but- 
terflies, chart,  directions.  25^ 

500 — Luxurious  milk-glass  effect  is 
achieved  by  simple  crochet.  Jiffy-cro- 
chet bowl  and  doily  13  x  8  inches,  or 
doily  alone,  9  inches.  Use  heavy  4-ply 
jiffy  cotton;  starch  stiffly.  254 

701 — This  graceful  swan  makes  an  ef- 
fective chair  or  buffet  set  for  your 
home.  Easy  crochet;  mainly  pineapple 
design.  Crochet  directions  included  for 
chair-back  about  12  x  16  inches ;  arm- 
rest 5  X  12  in  No.  30  mere,  cotton.  25^ 


10 


Send  twenty.five  cents  (in  coin)  for  each  pattern  to  TV  Radio  Mirror,  Needlecraft  Service,  P.O.  Box  137,  Old  Chelsea  Station, 
New  York  11,  New  York.  Add  five  cents  for  each  pattern  for  first-class  mailing.  Send  an  additional  254  for  Needlecraft  Catalog. 


WHAT'S  NEW 

(Continued  from  page  9) 


Are  you  ever  eXClted, . . 


Lee  and  Gale  Storm  Bonnell  named 
Susanna    for    Mom's    television    role. 


only  one  of  the  sisters  with  children.  She 
has  two  boys.  But  Aunts  Phyllis  and  Dot 
know  what  they're  about,  too.  When  the 
McGuires  sampled  a  couple  of  these  holi- 
day numbers  on  the  Godfrey  show,  they 
were  avalanched  with  approval. 

Hit  &  Run:  Ernie  Kovacs  and  wife  Edie 
Adams  will  make  a  TV  version  of  the 
once  beloved  radio  series,  Easy  Aces. 
(Jane  Ace  is  retired,  but  husband  Good- 
man Ace  is  still  a  top  comedy  writer, 
at  work  currently  on  Como  show.)  .  .  .  Eve 
Arden,  who  has  legally  adopted  several 
American  children,  financially  "adopted" 
two  French  boys  through  the  Foster 
Parents'  Plan.  ...  Up  at  the  Garroway 
penthouse,  records  are  piled  waist-high 
(and  Dave  has  a  mighty  high  waist) .  Dave 
continues  to  try  to  educate  his  bride  to 
his  taste  for  jazz,  so  it  is  not  unexpected 
to  find  a  Victor  release  titled  "Garrowav's 
Wide  Wide  World  of  Jazz."  .  .  .  And 
Leonard  Bernstein's  appearance  on  TV's 
Omnibus,  to  discuss  jazz,  received  such 
favorable  outbursts  that  Colximbia  Rec- 
ords has  recorded  a  similar  session.  Buck 
Clayton,  Satchmo  and  others  contribute 
the  jazz  and  Bernstein  the  analysis — and 
where  could  you  find  more  erudite  musi- 
cians for  the  job?  This  is  titled  "What  Is 
Jazz?"  and  even  if  you  know  the  answer, 
you'll  be  intrigued  by  this  session.  .  .  . 
And  how  about  this?  George  Fiala,  ABC- 
TV  makeup  expert,  is  marketing  eyebrow 
toupees.  The  "brow  wigs"  are  for  women 
who  pluck  not  wisely  but  too  well. 

Headaches  &  Bellyaches:  Very  curious 
things  happen  to  the  stars.  Take  the  pres- 
ent situation  of  Jack  Barry,  who  is  making 
a  nice  comeback  this  season.  His  morn- 
ing show.  Tic  Tac  Dough,  is  doing  well 
and  the  same  can  be  said  for  his  evening 
session,  Twenty-One.  Matched  against 
U.S.  Steel  Hour,  Twenty-One  not  only 
held  its  own  but  sometimes  topped  the 
fine  dramatic  program  in  rating.  Then 
what  happens?  Well,  you  know.  Since 
the  first  of  the  year,  Twenty-One  has  been 
scheduled  opposite  Lucy.  It's  not  a  spot 
to    warm    the     (Continued    on    page    13) 


rushed?... 


That's  when  most  deodorants  fail 

but  new  MUM  Cream  keeps  working 


ANOTHER    FINE    PRODUCT 
OF    BRISTOL-MYERS 


You've  probably  noticed... when  you're 
under  emotional  pressure,  your  perspiration 
glands  suddenly  get  more  active.  That's 
when  deodorants  which  depend  on  stopping 
perspiration  let  you  down,  and  odor  often 
starts. 

New  Mum®  Cream  works  a  completely  dif- 
ferent way.  It  is  the  only  leading  deodorant 
that  works  entirely  by  stopping  odor.  Mum 
keeps  on  working  actively  to  stop  odor  24 
hours  a  day— no  matter  how  active  your  per- 
spiration glands  are. 

No  wonder  Mum  is  so  dependable.  Isn't  that 
what  you  want? 


More  people  depend  on  MUM  than  on  any 

other  deodorant  ...it  works  when  others  fail 


11 


"Take  it  easy"  Is  a  family  motto  for 
George,  Betty,  sons  Doug  and  David. 


He  catches  the   10:25  (A.M.!)  train 
home  in  time  to  help  with  marketing. 


Trina's    usually    the    friskier    Afghan, 
all-white  Tammy's  a  retired  champion. 


SOIVIE    LIKE    I 


To  praise  WABC^s  George  Skinner,  just 
say  he's  set  music  back  twenty  years 


12 


THERE  ARE  four  things  people  want  in  the  morning, 
according  to  George  Skinner.   They're  news,  weather, 
time  and  music.   These  George  provides  over  Station 
WABC,  Monday  through  Saturday  from  six  to  nine — 
and  there  isn't  a  gimmick  or  alter  voce  to  be  heard. 
"There  are  lots  of  people,"  says  Skinner,  "who  like  it 
straight."   The  music  is  in  the  mood  that  Glenn  MiUer 
and  Benny  Goodman  set  from  1935  to  1950.     "The 
greatest  compliment  anyone  can  pay  me,"  says  George, 
"is  to  say  that  I've  set  music  back  twenty  years."  .  .  . 
Born  in  Oregon,  reared  in  Ohio,  George  slants  his  New 
York  show  toward  the  more  relaxed  mood  of  the 
Midwest,  where  it's  the  personality  and  not  the  format 
that  counts.    "You  can't  be  agin  anything  but  sin 
and  Communism,"  laughs  George.     With  the  Midwest 
still  in  his  voice,  he  says,  "I  don't  worry  about  boners. 
I  figure  that  if  I  misread  the  time,  the  guy  listening 
has  probably  done  the  same  thing  in  his  day."  .  .  .  George 
is  just  what  the  doctor  ordered,  and  he  might  very 
well  have  been  that  doctor  if  it  hadn't  been  for  an 
embalmed    cat.     One    look — and    whiff — at    his    first 
dissection  in  a  pre-med  course  persuaded  George  that 
his  inclination  toward  writing  was  the  one  to  follow. 
He   became    "a   dedicated   reporter" — and  went   to   jail 
for  it.    When  the  cornerstone  of  a  new  jail  turned  up 
missing,  George  uncovered  it.     Refusing  to  reveal  the 
sources  of  his  information,  he  became  the  jail's  first 
guest.  .  .  .  Reporting  led  to  news  announcing,  then 
to  other  radio  and  TV  chores  making  fuU  use  of  George's 
knack  for  good  talk.     George,  whose  past  experiences 
include  We  The  People,  Candid  Camera  and  Today, 
would  like  to  add  news  and  special  events  to  his 
schedule  again.    He's  making  headway  in  that  direction 
on  Skinner  Spotlight.  He  hopes  "someday"  to  get  a  couple 
of  novels  and  plays  down  on  paper.  .  .  .  Aside  from 
constructing  sentences,   George  actually  constructs — 
such  things  as  a  new  wing  on  his  Riverside,  Connecticut 
home  and  a  variety  of  tables  and  cabinets.    With  wife 
Betty  and  their  two  sons,  Doug,  10,  and  David,  5, 
George  leads  a  quiet,  comfortable  life  that  is  a  far  cry 
from  "the  Connecticut  country-club  set."    "Don't  ever 
tell  people  about  how  hard  I  work,"  George  says.    "The 
guy  who  shovels  coal  can't  feel  sorry  for  someone  who 
just  sits  at  a  mike.  Actually,  it's  a  pretty  easy  life." 


WHAT'S  NEW 

(Continued  jrom  'page  11) 


Turban  tops   Red  Skelton,  who  furns 
author — of  a  movie  for  Mario  Lanza! 


cockles  of  any  man,  least  of  all  Jack 
Barry,  who  admires  and  respects  the 
Amazes'  solid  fling.  But  when  network 
execs  say,  "Move,"  you  jump.  What  can 
you  do,  if  you're  suddenly  competing 
with  a  giant-killer  like  Lucy,  but  hope 
for  the  best?  .  .  .  To  Tell  The  Truth  is 
another  story.  Ex-"Superman"  Bud  Coll- 
yer  is  emcee  of  the  new  panel  quiz  show 
and  is  doing  a  handsome  job.  Everyone  is 
happy  about  the  new  show  except,  pos- 
sibly, Walter  Cronkite,  who  almost  had 
Bud's  job.  Walter  auditioned  for  the  role 
of  emcee  and  the  producers  were  very 
pleased.  But  Walter's  boss  at  CBS  de- 
clared the  newscaster  ineligible.  The  exec 
ruled  that  Cronkite's  prestige  or  dignity 
or  something  would  suffer  if  he  became 
an  entertainer.  The  ruling  applies  to  all 
news  reporters  at  CBS.  Yet  NBC  news 
reporter,  John  Cameron  Swayze,  is  a 
panelist  on  the  new  quiz  show.  So  you 
see,  one  man's  meat  can  be  another  man's 
ulcers. 

Lyrics  on  Llamas :  After  TV,  perhaps  the 
most  intelligent  business  is  songwriting. 
Take  this  song  titled,  "Mama  Llama  Loves 
Papa  Llama."  It  is  about  newlyweds 
(llamas)  who  have  domestic  (zoo)  diffi- 
culties and  solve  problem  by  having  a 
bundle  of  joy  (baby  llama).  The  song  is 
recorded  by  quiz-winner  Dorothy  Olsen, 
who  won  fame  on  Name  That  Tune,  and 
let  that  be  a  lesson  to  you. 

Men,  Coming  &  Going:  TJie  last  week  of 
this  month,  Godfrey  begins  sweating  out 
flying  weather.  First  good  day  and  off  he 
goes  to  Africa  for  big- game  hunt.  He  will 
fly  his  own  plane.  It's  his  first  trans- 
Atlantic  flight  and  he's  mighty  thrilled 
about  it  all.  .  .  .  Sammy  Kaye,  re- 
turning from  tour,  noted,  "I  received  twice 
as  many  requests  for  rock  'n'  roll  dance 
numbers  as  any  other  rhythm."  And,  ob- 
served Sammy,  "Ninety-nine  percent  of 
boys  and  girls  who  enjoy  it  are  good  kids 
out  to  have  wholesome  fun."  .  .  .  Coming 
attraction,  a  movie  titled,  "I'm  So  Glad 
I  Found  You."  Role  of  priest  is  played  by 
Renzo  Cesana,  who  titillated  TV  screens 
as  "The  Continental."  Renny  also  plays 
Prof.  Andre  Martel  on  Hilltop  House.  In- 
cidental intelligence:  Renny 's  still  a  bach- 
elor   and    still    (Continued    on   page    16) 


ENDS  DULL  DRY 
THIRSTY"  HAIR 


Q 

A 


How  do  you  make  your  hair 
so  lustrous  and  shining? 


By  following  my 
hairdresser's  advice 
and  using  Lanolin 
Discovery,  It's  the 
greaseless  hairdressing  that 
replaces  natural 
beauty  oils. 


What's  the  differ- 
ence between 
Lanolin  Discovery 
and  other  hair- 
dressings? 

Ordinary 
hairdressings 
^'coat^'  your  hair 
^'  — make  it  oily — 

Lanolin  Discovery's  misty  fine  spray  is  absorbed 
into  every  hair  right  down  to  your  scalp. 

To  enhance  the  natural  color  of  your  hair— to  get  a  shimmery  satiny 
sheen  with  deep  fascinating  highlights,  just  spray  on  Lanolin  Discovery 
Hairdressing  and  brush  a  little.  In  just  seconds  you  get  the  same 
beautiful  results  as  brushing  your  hair  100  strokes  a  day. 


fl4t6AL 


iscovepy 


® 


THE  NEW  HAIRDRESSING  IN  SPRAY  FORM 


.25  and  $1.89 

toth^lus  tax 


Used  and  recommended  by  leading  beauticians.  Available  wherever  cosmetics  are  sold 


13 


Pied  Piper  of  Bosfon  Town 


Jay  McMaster  of  WMEX  addresses  teenagers  as 
"ladies  and  gentlemen" — and  that's  how  they  behave! 


Musical  good  taste  is  o  matter  of  education,  says  Jay. 
Above,  the  "teachers"  are  Jerry  Vale  and  Eileen  Rogers. 


These   ore  Joy's   "students."   Their   requests   prove  that, 
given   a   chance  to   hear  good   music,   teens   will   like   it. 


14 


TEENAGERS  in  Boston  not  only  follow  Jay  McMaster — 
they  follow  his  rules!  Known  around  town  as  "the 
Pied  Piper,"  Jay  spotted  the  trend  Boston  had  set  in  rec- 
ord dances  and  started  his  own  three  years  ago.  Now,  on 
Saturday  nights,  some  1200  Bean  Towners  between  the 
ages  of  fifteen  and  nineteen  dance  to  the  latest  records. 
Wednesday  nights.  Jay  presides  at  a  dance  at  a  local 
roller  skating  rink.  Jay's  Friday  night  dances  alter- 
nate between  two  large  high  schools.  .  .  .  Jay  plays  the 
tunes,  and  the  teenagers  pay  attention.  There  are  a  set 
of  ten  "rules  and  regulations"  that  apply  to  all  dances 
at  which  Jay  presides.  The  young  people  are  screened 
when  they  come  in.  Dances  start  at  9:30  and  late- 
comers are  barred.  The  last  record  plays  at  11: 30  or 
midnight,  "to  enable  all  to  arrive  home  at  a  reasonable 
hour."  Boys  must  wear  jackets  and  ties.  Slacks  are 
taboo  for  girls.  The  dances  are  run  in  sets  of  four  slow 
numbers,  two  fast,  and  then  specialties.  The  super- 
visors at  the  dances  ban  all  drinking,  show-off  dancing 
and  loud,  brassy  groups.  ...  If  the  rules  sound  strict, 
nobody  seems  to  mind.  The  church  or  school  groups 
that  run  the  dances  know  the  rules  insure  a  successful 
and  good  time  for  all.  Parents  feel  secure  knowing  that 
their  sons  and  daughters  are  at  a  supervised  gathering. 
And,  most  important  of  all,  the  teenagers  love  it.  They 
know  they  can  meet  their  friends  and  have  a  good  time 
— and  without  tiouble.  Jay  addresses  them  as  "ladies 
and  gentlemen,"  and  treats  i-hem  as  such.  In  turn, 
that's  how  the  teenagers  behave.  .  .  .  Jay's  theme  for 


living  is  "Do  everything  in  good  taste."  On  his  after- 
noon WMEX  show,  now  ten  years  old,  he  features  "all 
the  music  in  good  taste."  Beginning  at  two,  he  slants 
his  first  hour  towards  the  housewife,  with  show  tunes 
and  ballads.  From  three  to  five,  it's  the  "Tops  in  Pops" 
— with  no  rock  'n'  roll.  Then,  for  the  last  hour,  Jay 
offers  "Band  and  Ballads"  for  everyone.  "The  young 
people  today  can't  be  expected  to  appreciate  good  music 
unless  they  have  a  chance  to  hear  it,"  he  says.  But  while 
opening  his  daily  stack  of  mail.  Jay  must  often  think 
how  different  his  life  might  have  been  had  he  followed 
his  father  into  the  "security"  of  a  civil  service  job  at  the 
post  office.  Instead,  the  Portsmouth,  New  Hampshire 
boy  began  to  earn  spending  money  by  ushering  at  the 
local  vaudeville  theater.  Show  business  seemed  to  offer 
more  "glamour"  than  a  small  town  post  office.  The 
stage-struck  youth  headed  for  Boston  and  a  career  in 
radio.  .  .  .  Jay  and  wife  Jenny  share  a  home  in  West 
Newton  with  a  houseful  of  animals.  As  we  go  to  press, 
the  menagerie  is  down  to  two  blond  cocker  spaniels  and 
a  budgie  bird  who  informs  all  and  sundry  that  "Pretty 
birds  don't  talk — Hello,  Baby."  But,  at  one  time,  the 
animal  population  was  up  to  eleven.  .  .  .  Jenny  keeps 
busy  during  Jay's  sixty-hour  work-week  by  raising 
coclcers  under  the  registered  kennel  name  of  "Merri- 
Macs."  She  also  acts  as  advisor  to  a  Junior  Achieve- 
ment Company  of  twenty-three  high-school  juniors  and 
seniors  who  run  an  actual  business.  Weekends,  Mr.  and 
Mrs.    "Pied    Piper"    McMaster    are    quietly    at-home. 


Mornings,  Jay  golfs — in  the  80's.   How  better 
to  start  a  day  that  will  end  about  midnight? 


Deejay  Jay  takes  a  rare  tinne-out  with  Princess  Juliana  and 
Mr.   Buffington.   On   extra-busy   days,   Jenny  visits   by  car. 


FAMOUS!  STAINLESS  STEEL! 

Mom te  Carlo 

STEAK  KNIVES 


Nationally  Advertised 
at  $2.00  Each 

NOW, 


10  YEAR 

Replacement  Guarantee 

Our  greatest  cutlery  bargain  in 
10  years!  Famous  Monte  Carlo 
steak  knives  —  advertised  in 
"House  Beautiful"  at  $2.00  each. 
Our  price— only  33(f!  All  brand- 
new,  first-quality  knives! 

From  Importer  to  You! 
These  knives  are  made  of  finest 
Korium  stainless  steel  by  old  world 
craftsmen  in  Solingen,  West  Ger- 
many —  Europe's  cutlery  center! 
Can't  rust  or  tarnish,  never  need 
polishing  or  sharpening.  Hollow 
ground,  like  a  barber's  razor.  Ser- 
rated edges  for  finer,  faster  cutting 
of  thick  steaks,  roasts,  etc.  Handles 
In  beautiful  design  of  autumn 
leaves  in  rich  color  of  Gold,  hand- 
somely embossed  on  background  of 
pastel  Ivory  Styrene!  Truly  breath- 
taking to  see,  to  hold,  to  own! 
Perfect  for  any  table  setting.  10- 
Year  Replacement  Guarantee  given. 
Over  ONE  MILLION  already  sold. 
Your  money  back  if  not  100%  de- 
lighted! Rush  coupon. 

FREE  GIFT! 

CAKE  &  PIE  SERVER 

Yours  FREE  on  any 

order  for  12  steak 

knives.     Keep    it 

Iree    even    if 

you  return 

knives  for 

refund. 

■   TllRS.  LAVALLE,   Dept.   130-C-89 
585  WATER   STREET. 
New  York  2.    N.  Y. 


16 


WHAT'S  NEW  FROM  COAST 


{Continued  from  page  13) 


r-t 


\y 


RUSH  Monte  Carlo  steak  knives  to  me.  If 

not  delighted  with  10-day  home  trial,  I'll 

return  them   for  full    and  prompt    refund. 

□    Payment    enclosed.    Send    prepaid. 

Q   Send  COD,   plus  postal  charges. 

n   Send   3  for  99(«        D    Send  6  for  $1.98 

n   Send  12  for  $3.96 

FREE  Cake  &  Pie  Server  with  order  of  12 

Name  

Address  

City  & 

Zone State 

iCanadlan  .\ddrcss:  45  St.  James  St.  WMomrea^lj^^Q 


very  continental.  .  .  .  NBC's  Jack  Costello 
returned  from  an  Inter-American  An- 
nouncers' Congress  at  Panama  City.  This 
is  the  second  time  Jack  Costello  has  been 
honored  and  designated  U.  S.  rep  to  the 
Congress.  Jack  has  quite  a  reputation. 
He  has  announced  hundreds  of  shows,  in- 
cluding Catholic  Hour,  Voice  Of  Firestone, 
Inner  Sanctum,  What's  My  Name  and  The 
Bob  And  Ray  Show.  Currently,  he  is  the 
mainstay  of  Monitor  and  Road  Show.  He 
is  a  brilliant  man,  an  avid  reader.  He 
"looks  and  feels  naked"  if  he's  caught 
without  a  book  in  his  hand.  His  home  is 
in  Forest  Hills  and  he  has  three  children — 
two  boys,  eighteen  and  sixteen,  and  a  girl, 
eleven.  In  spring  and  summer.  Jack  loves 
to  garden.  He  cultivates  Floribunda  roses. 
Jack  has  traveled  widely  and  says  it  is 
impossible  to  escape  American  culture.  In 
Panama,  he  was  in  a  night  club  divided 
into  two  sections,  one  side  for  adults  and 
the  other  for  teenagers.  He  says,  "The 
teenagers  wore  bright  colored  shirts  some- 
what like  our  sport  shirts.  They  had  a 
juke  box  and  danced  to  one  record  over 
and  over.  It  was  Elvis  Presley's  'Hound 
Dog.' " 

DATELINE:  HOLLYWOOD 

Namesake:  The  most  exciting  thing  in 
Gale  Storm's  life  these  days  is  her  new 
daughter,  Susanna.  She  made  her  appear- 
ance November  12,  at  1:25  P.M.,  measur- 
ing 18  V2  inches  and  weighing  6  pounds,  9 
ounces.  She's  named  Susanna  Jo,  the  first 
part  coming  from  Gale's  CBS-TV  series. 
Oh!  Susanna.  "I  felt  the  least  we  could 
do  was  to  name  her  after  the  series,  after 
giving  everybody  there  so  much  trouble, 
being  pregnant  and  all,"  Gale  says.  "Be- 
sides, we  like  the  name.  And  she  was  in 
every  one  of  the  episodes,  though  you'd 
never  know  it."  Gale  and  her  husband, 
Lee  Bonnell,  have  three  boys  and,  though 
they  woiildn't  admit  it  beforehand,  both 
had  wanted  a  girl.  Their  sons  are  equally 
pleased.  "We've  got  four  daddies,"  Gale 
says  of  her  menfolk.  "And  they  love  her 


so,  there's  really  not  enough  to  go  around. 
They  have  to  take  turns  holding  her.    Of 
my   three   boys,   Phillip,   Peter   and   Paul, 
I  thought  Paul,  being  the  yoimgest,  might 
feel  a  little  bad  about  not  being  the  'baby'    1 
anymore.  But  he  and  ten-year-old  Peter    : 
don't  want  to  miss   a  thing,"  Gale  grins. 
"They  insist  on  setting  their  alarm  for  the 
two-o'clock  feeding!"  Most  confused  mem- 
ber  of   the    household   is    Jolie,    the   dog. 
"The  baby  talk  has  always  been  for  him,"    | 
Gale   explains.    "Now,  everytime  we  coo,    ^ 
he  starts  to  get  up,  finds  we  aren't  talking 
to  him  at  aU,  and  then  sits  down  again, 
looking — well,   sort   of   strained   and   self-    . 
conscious." 

Here  Come  the  Girls:    Twenty-five  lovely    ] 
alumnae  of  the  Boh  Cummings  Show  have    '. 
formed  a  "Bob  Cummings  Club"  in  appre- 
ciation  of  the   boost  he  gave  them.    The 
gals    are    all    beautiful    models    and    their  j 
motto  is  this:   "When  a  fellow  looks  a  girl   i 
in  the  eyes,  it's  time  for  her  to  do  some-  ^ 
thing    about   her   figure."    .    .    .    Claudette 
Colbert  plays  Playhouse  90  on  February 
28.    It's  a  whimsical  H.  Allen  Smith  story 
adapted  for  TV  and  should  make  hilarious 
entertainment.  .  .  .  Dinah  Shore's  thirty-   ; 
day   cross-country  tour  won  her  another 
million  friends.    She's  at  home  in  Holly-  [ 
wood,    but    not    for    long.     Next,    it's    an  : 
engagement    at    Las    Vegas.    .    .    .    Well-  j 
stacked  Frances  Langford  filming  a  new 
TV  series  bankrolled  by  her  well-stashed 
husband.  : 

Paints  and  Pastimes:   Jack  Bailey,  NBC-  I 
TV's  Queen  For  A  Day  emcee,  mentioned  j 
on  the  air  that  he  was  painting  his  house. 
A  few   days  later,   an  admirer  sent  Jack  i 
a  bucket  of  paint  and  brushes.    Jack  sent  ; 
it  back  with  a  note  explaining  that,  as  a 
hobbyist-artist,  he  wasn't  painting  the  out-  , 
side,  he  was  painting  a  "portrait"  of  his 
house   on   canvas.    .    .    .    George   Gobel   is 
painting,  too.    He  has  just  bought  a  new 
home  in  the  San  Fernando  Valley  for  his 
parents,  who  recently  moved  to  Hollywood 
from  Chicago.   For  two  Saturdays,  George 


Lovely  alumnae  of  his  television  show  formed  a  "Bob  Cummings 
Girls  Club."  Left  to  right:  Lois  Fern,  Bob,  Beverly  Thomas.' 
Carole  Conn,  Sue  Lass,  and,  at  rear,  Ann  B.  Davis  ("Schultzy"). 


TO  COAST 


and  his  brother-in-law,  Bob  Humecke, 
put  up  screens  and  painted  the  kitchen. 
On  the  third  Saturday,  George  remarked, 
"This  house  has  minny,  minny  walls."  .  .  . 
Tennessee  Ernie  Ford  bought  a  new  bull, 
a  prize  Hereford,  to  go  with  the  twenty- 
six  head  of  cattle  on  his  northern  Cali- 
fornia ranch.  "The  cows  were  lonesome 
as  scarecrows  in  a  corn  patch,  and  every- 
body knows  that  imless  cows  are  happy, 
they  don't  milk  right.  We  sure  got  a  lot 
of  contented  cows  now,"  says  Ernie. 

On  the  Run:  Gail  Patrick  Jackson,  co- 
producer  of  the  upcoming  Perry  Mason 
series  on  CBS,  has  beautiful  gray  hair, 
but  as  Gail  Patrick,  movie  star,  the  tall 
beauty  was  noted  for  her  raven  tresses. 
Seeing  her  on  TV  recently  in  an  old  movie, 
her  two  youngsters  exclaimed:  "Look, 
Mommy's  wearing  a  wig!"  .  .  .  According 
to  the  rumor  factory,  Jan  Clayton  may  be 
leaving  the  Lassie  show.  ...  In  her  forth- 
coming series  for  CBS-TV,  Lone  Woman, 
Kathryn  Grayson  portrays  an  Indian.  Miss 
Grayson  doesn't  sing,  but  she  makes  a 
mighty  attractive  squaw.  .  .  .  Dewey  Mar- 
tin speaking:  "My  biggest  thrill?  The 
time,  in  Spain,  I  fought  a  small  but  lively 
bull.  My  biggest  mistake?  Not  getting 
out  of  his  way!"  .  .  .  Do  You  Trust  Your 
Wife?,  the  Edgar  Bergen  quizzer,  started 
its  second  year  on  CBS-TV  on  New  Year's 
Day.  During  the  first  fifty  shows,  con- 
testants collected  a  total  of  $345,400  in 
hard  cash.  .  .  .  Jeannie  Carson's  Hey, 
Jeannie!  series  is  now  being  seen  in  Eng- 
land and  Australia.  The  red-headed  star, 
by  the  way,  is  scheduled  to  make  a  movie 
in  England  for  J.  Arthur  Rank.  .  .  .  Guess 
who's  writing  the  screenplay  for  the  film 
Mario  Lanza  will  make  in  Italy  this  simi- 
mer?  Red  Skelton,  that's  who.  The  story 
concerns  an  opera  singer,  with  Lanza  type- 
cast. .  .  .  Ann  Sothem,  whose  Private 
Secretary  series  enjoyed  so  much  success 
through  the  years,  has  no  future  plans  for 
another  TV  series.  And  as  long  as  her 
Sun  Valley,  Idaho  sewing  center  continues 
its  present  thriving  pace,  she  isn't  going 
to  be  too  concerned  about  finding  another 
video  meal-ticket. 

AU-Star  Plans:  Ralph  Edwards  is  making 
secret  plans  for  his  1957  summer  vacation. 
Why  secret?  It's  not  that  Ralph  is  trying 
to  hide  from  fans,  he's  only  trying  to 
guarantee  himself  a  quiet  vacation.  He  is 
picking  some  spot  miles  away  from  radio, 
TV,  telephone  and  newspapers,  so  that,  no 
matter  what  happens,  he  won't  be  able  to 
say,  "Why,  that  story  would  be  terrific  for 
This  Is  Your  Life" — and  rush  back  into 
town  to  plan  it.  .  .  .  Academy  Award  win- 
ner Mercedes  McCambridge  and  her  hus- 
band, Fletcher  Markle,  laimch  their  own 
TV  production  unit  soon.  With  a  choice 
role  in  the  film,  "Giant,"  and  rave  notices 
for  her  starring  work  in  ABC-TV's  Wire 
Service,  Mercy  is  busy.  But  friends  no- 
tice a  change  that  has  come  over  her 
recently.  She  is  so  happy  in  her  marriage 
to  Fletcher  that  she  has  lost  the  old  push 
that  used  to  be  synonjmious  with  her 
talent.  Mercy  says  happiness  has  sapped 
her  old  aggression. 

Three  Guys  and  a  Gal:  Kuldip  Singh  (pro- 
nounced Cool-Dip  Sing)  is  the  former 
medical  student  from  India  who  blossomed 
into  a  singing  star  after  an  appearance  as 
a  contestant  on  Groucho's  You  Bet  Your 
Life.  Now  seen  on  ABC-TV's  The  Ray 
Anthony  Show,  he  was  scheduled  to  ap- 
pear at  twelve  o'clock  for  a  rehearsal  of 
the  George  Gobel  show.    The  cast  was  as- 


She's  Mother  Eve  Arden  as  a  "foster 
parent"   for   Daniel    Sens   of    France. 


sembled  and  waiting  at  noon.  But  no 
Kuldip.  One  o'clock.  No  Kuldip.  Two 
o'clock  and  stUl  no  Kuldip.  At  2:45,  Kul- 
dip was  on  the  phone  explaining  that  he 
was  late  because  he  was  doing  an  inter- 
view for  a  newspaper.  The  paper,  with 
a  circulation  of  500,  was  the  University  of 
Southern  California's  Daily  Trojan.  .  .  . 
Carole  Richards  of  the  Bob  Crosby  festiv- 
ities on  CBS-TV  has  bought  a  lodge  at 
Lake  Arrowhead  for  summer  vacations. 
That's  one  way  to  beat  the  problem  of  res- 
ervations. .  .  .  John  Lupton  and  Fess  Park- 
er, whose  friendship  began  several  years 
ago  when  they  were  struggling  unknowns 
sharing  a  room  together,  are  just  as  close 
now  that  they  are  both  successful.  John, 
who  plays  Tom  Jeffords  on  ABC-TV's 
Broken  Arrow,  has  always  felt  that,  to  be 
a  "real"  cowboy,  he  ought  to  be  able  to 
play  the  guitar.  He  asked  his  friend  to 
help  and  Fess  brought  out  his  antique  dul- 
cimer, an  instrument  used  in  the  Ozarks 
around  the  turn  of  the  century — seven- 
teenth century,  that  is.  After  an  hour, 
John  decided  he  didn't  take  to  music  quite 
as  naturally  as  he  did  to  a  saddle.  "I  hope 
nobody  asks  me  to  play  in  Carnegie  Hall," 
he  grinned.  "In  fact,  I  hope  they  don't  ask 
me  to  play  at  all!"  John  and  his  wife,  by 
the  way,  are  expecting  their  first  child 
momentarily. 

Champagne  People:  Heart  attacks  frighten 
us  all,  but  last  month  brought  good  news 
for  Myron  Floren,  popular  accordionist  on 
the  Lawrence  Welk  shows.  Myron,  who 
has  suffered  for  the_  last  thirty  years  with 
a  heart  damaged  by  rheumatic  fever,  was 
told  by  his  doctor  that  the  condition  had 
cleared  up  of  itself.  Only  last  year,  My- 
ron feared  he  would  have  to  vmdergo  a 
serious  operation  to  correct  the  weakness. 
"For  the  first  time  in  my  life,"  Myron  says 
happily,  "I've  been  okayed  for  a  life  in- 
surance policy.  It's  such  a  wonderful  feel- 
ing to  know  that  my  wife  and  children 
have  this  protection."  .  .  .  Larry  Dean's  fan 
mail  has  tripled  since  he  began  singing 
duets  with  cute  Dianne  Lennon  on  Welk's 
show.  The  fans  don't  seem  to  care  that 
twenty-year-old  Larry  Dean  is  married 
and  the  father  of  a  four-year-old  son,  or 
that  Dianne  Lennon,  seventeen,  is  more 
than  slightly  interested  in  Bob  O'Neil,  a 
Notre  Dame  student.  Bob,  in  fact,  spent 
Christmas  holidays  with  Dianne.  The  fan 
mail  shows  the  viewers  don't  take  the 
pairing  of  Dianne  and  Larry  seriously — 
but,  just  like  a  decorative  valentine,  it's 
fun    to   look    at,    as   well    as    to    listen    to. 


THANK 


T||r 

MAIL 


A  product  as  personal  as  Tampax'  internal 
sanitary  protection  does  not  draw  sacks 
full  of  fan  mail.  But  when  women  are 
writing  us  for  some  other  reason — in 
response  to  an  offer,  perhaps,  that  we  have 
placed  in  our  package — they  go  out  of 
their  way  to  say  the  nicest  things ! 

.  ."I've  been  using  it  for  15  years,  and  never 
once  have  I  felt  the  slightest  discomfort . . ." 

, .  ."Everything's  nice  about  it  .  .  .  disposal 
.  .  .  lack  of  odor  .  ,  .  well,  I'm  just  a 
Tampax  enthusiast!" 

. .  ."So  I  told  this  friend  of  mine,  'You're 
just  crazy  if  you  don't  use  Tampax,  Be- 
lieve me,  it's  made  me  practically  forget 
about  differences  in  days  of  the  month.'  " 

. .  ."You  make  a  product  that's  really  a 
blessing  for  women." 

Perhaps  the  opposite  side  of  the  coin  is 
equally  important;  Tampax  practically 
never  gets  a  complaint.  So  again  we  say, 
"Thanks  for  the  mail — thanks  for  being 
enthusiastic  about  Tampax  (it's  now  in  75 
countries) — thanks  for  making  Tampax  a 
success,  and  thanks  for  letting  Tampax  give 
you  more  poise,  assurance,  security." 

Tampax  is  available  in  3  absorbencies 
(Regular,  Super,  Junior)  wherever  drug 
products  are  sold.  Tampax  Incorporated, 
Palmer,  Mass. 

•Reg:.  U.  S.  Pat.  Off. 


Invented  by  a  doctor- 
now  used  by  millinns  of  women 


17 


Knowing  that  detective  James 
Gregory  assumes  him  guilty, 
James   MacArthur  is  defiant. 


TV; 


MtU>IO 
MIMIROR 


«h 


18 


TV  favorites  on 

your  theater  screen 

By  JANET  GRAVES 
The  Young  Stranger 

RKO 

Introducing  the  sturdy  young  talent  of 
James  MacArthur  to  movies,  this  is  an- 
other of  the  excellent  films  based  on  TV 
plays.  The  eighteen-year-old  son  of  Helen 
Hayes  and  the  late  Charles  MacArthur 
originated  on  "Climax"  the  role  that  he 
plays  in  the  expanded  movie  version.  As  a 
sensible  teenager  hauled  into  a  police  sta- 
tion after  a  movie-theater  scuffle,  Jim  gets 
no  understanding  from  his  father,  a  pro- 
ducer too  absorbed  in  a  successful  film 
career.  TV  regular  James  Daly  does  a  first- 
rate  job  as  the  stubborn  father;  so  does 
Kim  Hunter,  as  the  troubled  mother. 

The  Rainmaker 

WALLIS,  paramount;   VISTA  VISION,  TECHNICOLOR 

Here's  a  wry,  wistful,  altogether  pleasing 
comedy-drama,  which  was  born  as  a  TV 
show,  though  it  later  became  a  Broadway 
hit,  as  well.  Katharine  Hepburn's  a  delight 
as    a    spinster    who    keeps    house    for    her 


farmer  father  and  brothers,  all  lovingly  de- 
termined to  marry  her  off.  Wendell  Corey's 
their  choice,  but  adventurer  Burt  Lancaster 
breezes  in  to  break  up  the  pattern.  Though 
all  roles  are  splendidly  done,  TV  viewers 
will  be  especially  interested  in  Lloyd 
Bridges.  On  a  live  show  a  while  back,  he 
got  so  carried  away  that  he  forgot  to  watch 
his  language.  It  couldn't  happen  in  movies ! 

Edge  of  the  City 

M-G-IVI 

Still  another  TV  play  becomes  an  honest 
and  strikingly  simple'  movie,  featuring 
John  Cassavetes  as  an  unhappy  youth  who 
can't  believe  that  anyone  in  the  world 
wants  to  be  his  friend.  As  a  fellow  work- 
man, Sidney  Poitier  shows  him  that  he's 
wrong.  It's  a  gentle  story,  but  violence 
creeps  up  and  closes  in. 

The  Wrong  Man 

WARNERS 

Just  as  he  does  weekly  on  the  TV  screen, 
suspense  maestro  Alfred  Hitchcock  comes 
onto  your  theater  screen  to  prepare  you 
for  a  new  tale  of  tension.  This  one's  off- 
beat for  the  rotund  director.  With  no 
whimsical  or  fantastic  twists,  it  sticks  so- 
berly to  fact,  casting  Henry  Fonda  in  the 
real-life  role  of  a  musician  falsely  accused 
of  robbery,  Vera  Miles  as  distraught  wife. 


At  Your  Neighborhood  Theaters 

Bundle  of  Joy  (RKO,  Technicolor)  :  New 
parents  offscreen,  Debbie  Reynolds  and 
Eddie  Fisher  are  mistakenly  thought  to  be 
parents  in  this  gay  farce.  She's  a  departs 
ment-store  clerk  who  gets  stuck  with  a 
foundling;  he's  the  boss's  son.  Innocent 
family  fun,  with  songs.  • 

Hollywood  or  Bust  (Wallis,  Paramount; 
VistaVision,  Technicolor)  :  Slap-happy 
comedy,  okay  for  Martin-Lewis  fans  of  all 
ages.  Jerry's  off  to  meet  idol  Anita  Ek? 
berg;  Dean  flees  racketeers;  Pat  Crowlej 
joins  the  cross-country  junket.  * 

Baby  Doll  (Warners)  :  Definitely  not  for 
the  whole  family,  this  one.  Trained  on  TVj 
Carroll  Baker's  a  sensation  as  the  South- 
ern child  bride  who  keeps  husband  Karl 
Maiden  at  arm's  length,  but  has  a  harder 
time  coping  with  Eli  Wallach. 

Don't  Knock  the  Rock  (Columbia)  : 
Lively  rock  'n'  roll  music  dominates  the 
love  story  of  young  Patricia  Hardy  and 
singer  Alan  Dale,  who  innocently  starts  a 
campaign  against  modern  rhythms  by  tak- 
ing a  vacation.  Among  the  many  popular 
groups  featured  are  Haley  and  his  Comets, 
the  Treniers,  Little  Richard's  band. 


Showing  this  month 


ABE  LINCOLN  IN  ILLINOIS   (RKO) : 

Absorbing,  inspiring  study  of  Lincoln's  early 
years,  with  Raymond  Massey  as  Abe,  Ruth 
Gordon  as  Mary  Todd.  The  Lincoln-Douglas 
debate  (Gene  Lockhart  as  Douglas)  seems 
rousingly  up-to-date. 

ASTONISHED  HEART,  THE  (UI): 
Adult,  witty  treatment  of  a  marriage  prob- 
lem, from  the  English  angle.  Psychiatrist 
Noel  Coward,  happily  wed  to  placid  Celia 
Johnson,  grapples  with  a  sudden  infatuation 
for  dashing  Margaret  Leighton. 

BERLIN  EXPRESS  (RKO):  Vigorous 
melodrama  of  Europe  just  after  World  War 
n.  Set  mostly  on  a  Germany-bound  train,  the 
action  involves  American  Robert  Ryan,  Ger- 
man scientist  Paul  Lukas  and  secretary 
Merle  Oberon. 

BIG  STREET.,  THE  (RKO):  Lucille 
Ball  does  an  excellent  dramatic  job  in  the 
Damon  Runyon  story  of  a  gangster's  ex- 
sweetie,  crippled,  yet  rebuffing  the  friend- 
ship of  bus-boy  Henry  Fonda. 

CORN  IS  GREEN,  THE  (Warners) :  An- 
other  strong  Bette  Davis  portrayal.  She  is  a 
spinster  schoolteacher  in  Wales,  advancing 
the  career  of  student  John  Dall,  though  Joan 
Lorring  interferes. 

COUNTER-ATTACK  (Columbia):  Dat- 
ing back  to  times  when  U.  S.  A.  and 
U.  S.  S.  R.  were  allies,  this  effective  war 
drama  casts  Paul  Muni  as  a  Soviet  soldier 
who  subtly  pumps  captive  Nazis. 

DESPERADOES,  THE  (Columbia): 
Lively  Western.  Glenn  Ford's  the  ex-outlaw 
who  can't  avoid  trouble;  Randolph  Scott, 
the  sheriff;  Claire  Trevor,  the  good-hearted 
dance'-hall  gal:   Evelyn  Keyes,  nice  gal. 

HOME  OF  THE  BRAVE  (U.A.) :  Pow 
erful  study  of  race  prejudice.  James  Ed- 
wards is  a  Negro  GI;  Lloyd  Bridges  and 
Frank  Lovejoy,  fellow  soldiers  on  a  danger- 
ous Pacific-island  mission. 

IF  YOU  COULD  ONLY  COOK  (Co- 
lumbia) :  Up  from  the  Goldfen  Age  of  movie 
light  comedies  comes  a  pleasant  yarn  about 
Depression  days.  Unemplojsed,  Jean  Arthur 
thinks  tycoon  Herbert  Marshall  is  also  job- 
less. Both  go  into  domestic  service. 

INTERMEZZO  (U.A.) :  Touching  ro- 
mance-with-music  stars  the  young  Ingrid 
Bergman  and  the  late  Leslie  Howard,  as 
a  pianist  and  a  violinist,  whose  illicit  love 
is  brief. 

KISS  AND  TELL  (Columbia)  :  The  teen- 
aged  Shirley  Temple  sparkles  in  a  hilarious, 
slyly  suggestive  story  of  youthful  high-jinks. 
Jerome  Courtland's  her  innocent  beau;  Wal- 
ter Abel,  her  dad. 

LADY  TAKES  A  CHANCE,  A  (RKO) : 
A  charmer  of  a  comedy.  On  a  Western  vaca- 
tion, Jean  Arthur  tries  her  best  to  lasso 
rodeo  cowboy  John  Wayne.  Fine  character 
job  by  some  guy  named  Phil  Silvers,  as  the 
good-time  conductor  of  a  bus  tour. 


MADELEINE  (U-I):  Interesting  British 
mystery,  based  on  a  real  case.  Ann  Todd  is 
the  Scottish  lass  who  may  or  may  not  have 
poisoned  her  French  lover. 

MR.  BLANDINGS  BUILDS  HIS 
DREAM  HOUSE  (RKO)  :  Any  home- 
builder  will  laugh  (tears  in  eyes)  at  Gary 
Grant's  efforts  to  get  his  house  finished,  with 
wife  Myrna  Loy  supervising. 

MURDER,  MY  SWEET  (RKO):  Fast, 
tough  whodunit  casts  Dick  Powell  as  pri- 
vate eye  seeking  a  stolen  necklace  and  a 
missing  night-club  doll.  With  Claire  Trevor, 
Mike  Mazurki. 

PARADINE  CASE,  THE  (Selznick) : 
Another  Hitchcock  special.  Lawyer  Gregory 
Peck's  defense  of  accused  murderess  Valli 
affects  his  marriage  to  Ann  Todd.  With 
Charles  Laughton,  other  top-flight  players. 

ROARING  TWENTIES,  THE  (War- 
ners)  :  Lusty  re-creation  of  a  wild  decade 
casts  Jimmy  Cagney  as  a  likable  bootlegger 
and  Humphrey  Bogart  as  a  murderous  rack- 
eteer. With  Priscilla  Lane. 

SO  LONG  AT  THE  FAIR  (Eagle-Lion) : 
Fascinating  English  version  of  a  popular 
legend.  At  a  19th  Century  Paris  exposition, 
Jean  Simmons  seeks  a  missing  brother — only 
to  be  told  that  he  never  existed.  Artist  Dirk 
Bogarde  comes  to  her  rescue. 

SPIRAL    STAIRCASE,    THE     (RKO): 

Splendidly  photographed,  well-acted  thrill- 
er. Servant  to  Ethel  Barrymore,  Dorothy 
McGuire  is  a  mute  who  solves  a  mystery  in- 
volving Rhonda  Fleming. 

STEEL  TRAP,  THE  (20th) :  Taut  tale 
of  suspense.  Bank  employee  Joseph  Gotten 
tries  looting  the  vault  as  an  experiment, 
gives  in  to  temptation  and  takes  off,  deceiv- 
ing wife  Teresa  Wright. 

STRANGER,  THE  (RKO):  Neat  twists 
m  a  post-World  War  H  melodrama.  Nazi 
Orson  Welles  hides  out  in  a  New  England 
college  town,  with  Loretta  Young  as  his 
innocent  wife,  Edward  G.  Robinson  as  the 
government  man  on  his  trail. 

TONIGHT   AND    EVERY   NIGHT  (Co- 

lumbia)  :  Show  business  goes  on  in  blitz- 
torn  London.  Rita  Hayworth  and  Janet 
Blair  are  gallant  show  girls;  Lee  Bowman, 
a  naturally  amorous  flyer ;  Marc  Piatt,  dedi- 
cated dancer.  Fine  musical. 

TOO  LATE  FOR  TEARS  (U.A.) :  In  a 
rough  action  story,  Lizabeth  Scott  plays  a 
dame  who  just  loves  money.  Arthur  Ken- 
nedy's her  honest  husband;  Dan  Duryea,  a 
hood  who's  not  as  tough  as  Liz. 

TRAIL  OF  THE  VIGILANTES    (U  I) : 

Highly  enjoyable  horse  opera,  with  dashes 
of  satire.  Tenderfoot  Franchot  Tone  arrives 
to  investigate  lawless  goings-on  in  a  frontier 
town.  Brod.  Crawford  helps  him;  oily  War- 
ren William  opposes  him. 


Beautify  your 


Hair  Color 

ONE  OF  THESE  FAMOUS  PRODUCTS 
IS  JUST  RIGHT  FOR  YOU ! 


Jev/elry 
Miriam  Hasl<ell 


^^^ 


COLORINSE 


GIVES  COLOR-HIGHLIGHTS 

AND   BEAUTIFUL   SHEEN 

-«^V        y^g  Nestle  Colorinse  after 
every  shampoo  to  accent 


your  natural  hair  color — 
^      add  glorious  new  lustre 
' — remove  dulling  soap  film 
—  make  hair  softer,  silkier, 
easier  to  manage.  Colorinse  quickly 
rinses    in  —  easily    shampoos    out! 
12   glamorous   colors.   29?,    50?:. 


,^^«^COLORTINT 

ADDS  COLOR  THAT  LASTS 

THROUGH   3   SHAMPOOS 

,,^      Nestle    Colortint    gives   rich, 
(^\*\       intense    all-over   color   but 
is  not  a   permanent  dye  I 
sy-*      It  intensifies  your  natural 
'*'■         hair  color  OR  —  adds  exciting 
""'  NEW  color.    Lanolin-rich   Colortint 

also  blends-in  gray,  streaked  or  faded 
hair.    10    triple-strength    colors.    29(,    50(«. 


|%estie  color  Crem«R;nse-„ 
"^--^V       adds  b«a^*'\tut  I 

CONOnmNS  your     -r  ^^^^^^^ 


Ask  Your  Beautician  for  Professional  Applications 


19 


AContractwith  Connie  mea  nt 
fameforGeorge  Hamilton  IV. 


TALENT. 
COUNTRY- STYLE 

Connie  B.  Gays  "Town  and  Country" 
aggregations  sparkle  with  such  stars  as 
Jimmy  Dean  and  George  Hamilton  IV 


20 


They're  having  a  hoedown.  Standing  are  Buck  Ryan,  Mary  Klick, 
Jimmy  Dean,  Dale  Turner  and  Marvin  Carroll.  Down  in  front  are 
"Elmer,"  Alec  Houston,  Billy  Grammer,  Smitty  Irvin,  Herbie  Jones. 


Star-maker  Connie  B.  Gay  acts  as  emcee  for  his  fast-paced,  informal  variety  frolic. 
Shown  with  him:  Tiny  Jenkins  (seated),  the  Texas  Wildcats,  Jimmy  Dean  on  accordion. 


IMPRESARIO  Connie  B.  Gay  has  hitched  a 
number  of  stars  to  his  wagon.    In  the  doing, 
he's  created  a  country -music  empire.    Its 
capital  is  Washington,  D.  C,  and  the 
fabulous  "Town  and  Country"  productions 
carry  its  banner.     Weekdays  at  6: 30  P.M., 
Town  And  Country  Time  originates  at 
Washington's  Station  WMAL-TV  and  is  car- 
ried "live"  by  WAAM  in  Baltimore,  WTVR 
in  Richmond,  and  WSVA  in  Harrisonburg. 
Forty  television  stations  across  the  country 
carry  it  as  a  filmed  half-hour  show  and 
more  than  1800  radio  stations  carry  it  as 
a  transcribed  program.   (See  your  local  paper 
for  time  and  station.)   The  biggest  country - 
music  show  on  television,  Town  And  Country 
Jamboree  is  seen  on  WMAL-TV  on  Saturday 
nights  from  10:30  to  1:30.    Portions  of 
the  show  are  picked  up  by  other  stations  and 
thousands  of  country -music  fans  jam 
the  downtown  Washington  Capitol  Arena 
to  dance  and  applaud  in -person.  .  .  .  The  far- 
flung  musical  operation  had  its  beginnings 
when,  as  a  specialist  with  the  Department  of 
Agriculture,  Connie  B.  Gay  presented  farm 
reports  on  the  Farm  And  Home  Hour.    He 
noticed  that,  whenever  country  music  was 
played  on  the  show,  the  mail  response  soared. 
He  decided  folks  wanted  more  of  this  music, 
and  he  began  giving  it  to  them  as  a  deejay 
on  an  Arlington,  Virginia  station.  Soon 
Connie  was  bringing  top  hillbilly  entertainers 
to  Washington,  and  operating  shows  up  and 
down  the  Eastern  seaboard.  ...  A  prime 
reason  for  the  resounding  success  of  "Town 
and  Country"  concerts,  radio  and  TV  shows, 
and  service  tours  is  Connie's  eye — and  ear — 
for  talent.    Jimmy  Dean — who  now  headlines 
the  shows  as  leader  of  the  Texas  Wildcats — 
was  spotted  by  Connie  when  Jimmy  came 
to  Washington  as  a  GI  and  put  together 
a  group  of  soldier-instrumentalists.     With  his 
"Bummin'  Around"  near  the  million-sales 
mark,  the  six-foot-three  Texan  is  now  at 
home  with  his  wife  and  two  children  on  a  75- 
acre  Virginia  farm.  .  .  .  George  Hamilton  IV 
was  a  student  at  the  University  of  North 
Carolina  when  Connie  signed  him  as  a 
"Town  and  Country"  regular.    Now  a  sopho- 
more at  Washington's  American  University, 
George  has  seen  his  recording  of  "A  Rose 
and  a  Baby  Ruth,"  on  the  ABC-Paramount  ^^ 
label  become  a  golden,  million-sale  one.       ^^B 


l¥eiv  Patterns 
for  You 


9280 — Most  flattering  princess  lines — 
proportioned  for  the  shorter,  fuller 
figure.  Half  Sizes  141/2-241/2.  Size  I6I/2 
takes  4%   yards   39-inch  fabric. 
State  size.  35^ 

4523 — For  half-sizers.  Keep  cool  in 
this  easy-to-sew,  easy-to-slip-into  style. 
It's  our  new  Printed  Pattern — cut  to  fit 
the  half-sizer.  Sizes  141/^-241/^.  Size 
161/4  takes  4%  yards  35-ineh  fabric. 
State  size.  35(5 

4506 — Only  four  main  pattern  parts  to 
cut  out  and  stitch,  this  dress  is  a  cinch 
to  sew  with  our  new  Printed  Pattern! 
Its  smooth,  simple  lines  are  figure- 
flattering.  Misses'  Sizes  12-20.  Size  16 
takes   514   yards   35-inch  fabric. 
State  size.  35^ 


PRINTED 
PATTERN 


4523 

SIZES 
14'/2- 241/2 


PERIODIC   PAIN 

Don't  let  the  calendar  make  a 
slave  of  you,  Betty!  Just  take  a 
Midol  tablet  with  a  glass  of  water 
...that's  all.  Midol  brings  faster 
and  more  complete  relief  from 
menstrual  pain— it  relieves 
cramps,  eases  headache  and 
chases  the  "blues." 

"WHAT  WOMEN  WANT  TO   KNOW" 

a    24-page    book    exploming    menstruation 
is  yours,  FREE.  Write  Dep't  B-37,   Box  280, 
^^      New  York  18,  N.  Y.  (Sent  in  plain  wrapper).      | 


J 


Send  thirty-five  cents  (in  coin)  for  each  pattern  to:  TV  Radio  Mirror,  Pattern  Depart- 
ment, P.O.  Box  137,  Old  Chelsea  Station,  New  York  11,  New  York.  Add  five  cents  for 
each    pattern    for    first-class    mailing.    Be    sure    to    specify    pattern    number    and    size. 


21 


I ISI  P^R  IVI  AT  I^ISI 


'    \-^ 


22 


/oeZ  Grey 


Calling  All  Fans 

The  following  fan  clubs  invite  new 
members.  If  you  are  interested,  write  to 
address  given— not  to  TV  Radio  Mirror. 

International  Vic  Damone  Fan  Club, 
c/o  Ann  Titus,  1188  Bailey  Ave.,  Buffalo, 
N.  Y. 

Tim  Considine  Fan  Club,  c/o  Suzie 
O'Rouke,  2437  Auburn  Ave.,  Dayton  6, 
Ohio.  ,       ,     „ 

Gisele  MacKenzie  Fan  Club,  c/o  Fam 
Beck,  16229  Schaefer  Rd.,  Detroit  35, 
Mich. 

Beanstalk  Jackpot 

Would  you  please  tell  me  something 
about  Joel  Grey,  who  appeared  as  Jack 
in  NBC-TV's  color  spectacular,  "Jack 
and  the  Beanstalk"? 

P.   W.,    Winchester,  Ind. 

For  actor-singer-dancer  Joel  Grey,  the 
telephone  sounded  the  call  to  fame  and 
fortune.  It  was  while  he  was  in  the  phone 
booth  of  a  New  York  restaurant  that  he 
was  spotted  by  famed  Hollywood  scripter 
Helen  Deutsch,  who  did  the  book  and 
lyrics  for  "Jack  and  the  Beanstalk."  She 
thought  five-foot  three-inch  Joel  ideal  for 
the  role,  and  composer  Jerry  Livingston 
agreed.  Several  auditions  and  two  flying 
trips  to  Hollywood  later,  Joel  became 
Jack.  The  show  was  widely  praised,  has 
since  been  referred  to  as  the  first  suc- 
cessful original  TV  musical.  Joel  became 
a  sought-after  video  guest.  .  .  .  Twenty-five- 
year-old  Joel  has  been  preparing  for  his 
big  break  for  fifteen  years.  Cleveland- 
born,  he  acted  with  the  famed  Cleveland 
Players  at  age  ten,  and  when  his  father, 
comedian  Mickey  Katz,  traveled  to  the 
West  Coast,  Joel  went  with  him.  There, 
he  appeared  on  small-fry  radio  shows  and 
acted  in  school  plays.  He  later  joined  his 
dad  on  a  cross-country  vaudeville  tour 
and  was  spotted  by  Eddie  Cantor  at  a 
Miami  benefit.  "Banjo  Eyes"  began  to  use 


him  on  TV  as  a  specialty  singer  and 
dancer,  and  this  led  to  numerous  TV  guest 
shots  and  a  spot  in  the  Warner  Bros, 
film,  "About  Face."  His  debut  at  New 
York's  Copacabana  night  club  was  a  big 
success  and  led,  after  an  equally  happy 
interim  booking  at  Chicago's  Chez  Paree, 
to  a  triumphant  return  engagement.  Lon- 
don audiences  applauded  his  Palladium 
debut  two  years  ago,  and,  in  last  season's 
off-Broadway  "Littlest  Revue,"  he  bagged 
the  lion's  share  of  critics'  raves.  .  .  .  This 
brown-haired,  brown-eyed  bachelor  likes 
fine  clothes,  and  is  a  gourmet  with  a  huge 
file  of  recipes.  For  this  reason,  single 
lassies  who  can  turn  a  skilled  hand  in  the 
kitchen  are  apt  to  rate  the  most. 

Mirthful  Maestro 

/  would  like  to  know  something  about 
Ray  Block. 

I.  L.  B.,  Bangor,  Me. 

As  millions  of  televiewers  know,  the 
shiny-domed  sharpy  who  trades  quips  with 
the  head  men  on  CBS-TV's  Ed  Sullivan 
and  Jackie  Gleason  shows  and  on  CBS 
Radio's  Robert  Q.  Lewis  Show,  is  none 
other  than  composer-conductor  Ray  Bloch. 
"I  couldn't  stand  there  and  grin  as  they 
kept  hurling  one  joke  or  another  at  me," 
comments  Ray.  "I  decided  it  was  about 
time  to  develop  my  own  sense  of  humor. 
Since  then,  I've  found  that  I  get  as  much 
pleasure  out  of  throwing  back  an  occa- 
sional wisecrack  as  I  do  put  of  my 
music."  And  whether  conducting  his  own 
music  or  the  music  of  others,  Ray  Bloch's 
distinctive  sty  lings  have  given  many  mo- 
ments of  pleasure  to  people  everywhere. 
...  He  was  born,  in  1902,  in  the  French 
province  of  Alsace-Lorraine.  At  age 
eight,  the  Bloch  boy-soprano  was  being 
heard  in  neighborhood  choirs,  and  at 
twelve,  Ray  gained  his  first  conducting 
experience  at  a  Christmas  festival.  But 
war  broke  out,  and  Ray  was  forced  to  flee, 
escaping    from    Alsace    concealed    in    a 


Ray  Bloch 


OARLEHE 

Darlene   Gillespie 


wagon-load  of  hay.  Brought  to  the  United 
States,   he   continued  his   musical   studies 
while    working     for     a     foreign-language 
newspaper.   Later,  he   played  pieino  in   a 
music    publishing   house.   Much   ballroom 
band  experience  came  in  handy  when  he 
organized  a  jazz   quintet   and  toured  the 
country.  Later,  his  position  as  director  of 
several  choral  groups  led  to  his  entry  into 
radio.  Since  then,  a  busy  schedule  of  con- 
ducting,   composing,    coaching,    arranging 
and    choral    directing    has    put    him    into  i 
working    relationships    with    most    of   the  i 
notable   names   in   the   music   field.   .    . 
An  ASCAP  member  since  1939,  Ray  has 
many  tuneful  hits  to  his  credit,  probably  1 
the     most     popular     being     "The     Veryi 
Thought    of    You."    An    inveterate    pipe 
smoker,  Ray  remains  urbane  and  amiable 
even  under  heavy  pressure.  He  is  married  | 
to  the  former  Ann  Seaton,  and,  when  not 
trading  quips  with  the  funnymen  or  tend- 
ing to  musical  chores,  relaxes  at  his  farm 
in  Brewster,  New  York. 

Young  Veteran 

Could  you  please  give  me  some  infor- 
mation about  Tommy  Sands? 

C.  S.,  Phoenix,  Arizona, 

To  young  Tommy  Sands,  singing  just, 
came  naturally.  Tommy  makes  weekly  ap- 
pearances on  NBC-TV's  Tennessee  Ernie 
Ford  Show,  and  is  seen  locally  on  Los 
Angeles'  Station  KTLA  on  Hometown 
Jamboree,  Saturday  evenings  from  7  toi 
8.  The  eighteen-year-old  troubadour  is  a 
versatile  show-business  veteran  whose 
career  got  underway  eleven  years  ago. . 
At  age  seven,  back  in  his  native  Shreve- 
port,  Louisiana,  Tommy  was  given  a  guitar 
for  Christmas.  Before  long  the  "minia-[ 
ture  Burl  Ives,"  as  he  was  called,  was 
making  local  radio  and  TV  appearances, 
which  led  directly  to  a  three-year  contract 
for  twice-a-week  TV  appearances  in  Chi- 
cago. When  Tommy  was  thirteen,  he  and 
his  family  moved  to  Houston,  where 
Tommy  soon  had  his  own  radio  and  TV 


shows.  Time  out  to  appear  on  the  local 
stage  was  rewarded  with  an  "actor  of 
the  year"  accolade.  But  offers  to  follow 
up  on  an  acting  career  were  refused  in 
favor  of  concentration  on  Tommy's  prin- 
cipal goal:  To  be  a  top-notch  country 
singer.  To  this  end,  he  appeared  on  such 
leading  shows  as  National  Barn  Dance, 
Louisiana  Hayride,  and  Grand  Ole  Opry. 
Now,  in  addition  to  his  weekly  TV  ap- 
pearances and  ever-growing  popularity. 
Tommy  has  just  signed  an  RCA  Victor 
contract  and  is  on  the  way  to  becoming 
a  popular  recording  star  as  well.  .  .  .  Off- 
camera,  Tommy  enjoys  basketball,  boxing 
and  other  school  activities.  He's  also  an 
eager  songwriter,  and  co-authored  the  tune 
"Love  Pains."  Houston  classmates  voted 
Tommy  "Most  Personable  Boy"  in  the 
sophomore  class.  The  title  holds  true  on 
TV,  too. 

Junior  Miss 

/    would    appreciate   some    information 
I  about  Darlene  Gillespie. 

A.  B.,  Reading,  Pa. 

1      Darlene  GiUespie  holds  the  distinction 

1  of  being  the  first  dramatic  star  to  emerge 
from  the  group  of  twenty-four  talented 
youngsters  who  comprise  the  Mouseketeers 

i'on  ABC-TV's  Mickey  Mouse  Club.  The 
freckle-faced  15-year-old  was  picked  by 
bossman  Walt  Disney  to  star  in  the  "Corky 

'■:  and  White  Shadow"  series — about  an 
inquisitive  little  miss   and   her   dog,   who 

:both  get  involved  in  a  bank  robbery. 
Never  one  to  stint  on  production,  Disney 
surrounded  Darlene  with  Buddy  Ebsen, 
Chinook  (a  145-pound  white  German 
shepherd),  and  a  boar,  coyote,  burro, 
Himalayan  bear,  skunk,  raccoon,  rabbit, 
several  chickens,  ducks,  squirrels,  25 
horses,  a  rattlesnake,  half  a  dozen  blue 
jays,  and  an  owl!  Needless  to  say,  both 
Darlene  and  the  series  were  a  smash  hit. 

1.  .  .  Born  in  Montreal,  Canada,  of  show- 
business  parents,  Darlene  gave  an  early 
indication  that  she  would  follow  in  their 
footsteps.  The  family  moved  to  Los 
Angeles  when  she  was  a  year  old,  and  a 
few  years  later,  Mrs.  Gillespie  enrolled 
Darlene  in  dancing  school.  "I  liked  danc- 
ing so  much  that  I  used  to  spend  most 
of  my  summer  holidays  practicing  at 
dancing  school,"  remembers  Darlene.  It 
was  there  that  she  got  the  chance  to  audi- 
tion for  Disney,  and  was  eventually  se- 
lected to  play  "Corky."  "Working  with 
Buddy  Ebsen  was  the  big  thrill  of  my 
life,"  enthuses  Darlene.  "When  he  co- 
starred    with    Fess    Parker    in    the    Davy 

J  Crockett  film,  he  became  one  of  my  big 
movie    favorites."    Darlene    had    her    own 

ohance  to  co-star  with  Fess,  in  the  recent 

,  Westward  Ho  the  Wagons!"  but  a  bout 

:*ith  pneumonia  forced  her  to  bow  out, 
ind  she  was  replaced  by  good  friend  and 

-fellow   mousketeer,   Doreen    Tracey.    .    . 
Vow  the  possessor  of  a  long-term  Disney 

iiontract,  Darlene  is  comfortably  settled 
with  her  parents  and  three  sisters  in  a 
nodern,  four-bedroom  stucco  home  in  San 

/^abriel.     The     brown-haired,     hazel-eyed 


Tommy  Sands 


lass  likes  painting  and  drawing  and  col- 
lects figurines.  Though  not  too  sports- 
minded,  she  learned  to  ride  a  horse  for 
her  "Corky"  role,  but  her  chief  interests 
are  dancing  and  singing.  Her  mother 
says  she  despairs  of  ever  getting  Darlene 
to  help  around  the  house,  but  that  should 
soon  change  when  this  talented  gal  starts 
thinking  of  a  homemaking  role  for  her- 
self. 

Bacic  Issues 

How  do  I  obtain  reprints  of  articles  that 
appeared  in  TV  Radio  Mirror? 

D.  P.,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

In  many  homes,  popular  TV  Radio 
Mirror  has  a  strange  way  of  "disappear- 
ing" before  the  whole  family  gets  a  chance 
to  read  it.  Or  sometimes  there's  a  reference 
to  stories  about  favorite  programs  and  per- 
sonalities which  might  have  been  missed. 
Then  again,  if  you're  a  fan  club  prexy,  you 
know  that  keeping  up  a  generous  file  on 
your  hero  or  heroine  is  an  absolute  "must." 
Whatever  the  reason,  many  of  our  readers 
will  be  happy  to  know  that  they  can  obtain 
previous  issues  of  TV  Radio  Mirror  by 
sending  thirty-five  cents  for  each  copy  to 
Back  Issue  Department,  Macfadden  Publi- 
cations, 205  East  42nd  Street,  New  York, 
New  York.  Please  be  sure  to  specify  month 
and  year  of  issue  desired. 


FOR  YOUR  INFORMATION— If  there's 
something  you  want  to  know  about  radio 
and  television,  write  to  Information  Booth, 
TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East  42nd  St.,  New 
York  17,  N.  Y.  We'll  answer,  if  we  can, 
provided  your  question  is  of  general  inter- 
est. Answers  will  appear  in  this  column — 
hut  be  sure  to  attach  this  box  to  your 
letter,  and  specify  whether  your  question 
concerns  radio  or  TV. 


Moi/Se/zeue  /n^q 
ever  efvb^tf-QSsecf 
by  P/fvp/esf/^^ 


New!  Clearasil  Medication 

STARVES' 
PIMPLES 

SKIN-COLORED  .  . .  hides  pimples  while  It  works. 

At  last !  Science  discovers  a  new-type  medi- 
cation especially  for  pimples,  tluit  really 
works.  In  skin  specialists'  tests  on  202 
patients,  9  out  of  every  10  cases  were 
completely  cleared  up  or  definitely  improved 
while  using  clearasil. 

CLEARASIL  WORKS  FAST 
TO  MAKE  PIMPLES  DISAPPEAR 


M-i/xi- 


TT 


1 .  PENETRATES  PIMPLES  .  .  .  kera- 
tolytic  action  softens  and  dissolves 
affected  skin  tissue  .  .  .  permits 
medication  to  penetrate  down  into 
any  infected  area. 

2.  ISOLATES  PIMPLES  .  .  .  antiseptic 
action  of  this  new  type  medication 
stops  growth  of  bacteria  that  can 
cause  and  spread  pimples. 

3.  'STARVES'  PIMPLES  .  .  .  CIEAE- 
ASll's  famous  dry-up  action 
'starves'  pimples  because  it  helps 
to  remove  the  oils  that  pimples 
'feed'  on. 

SKIN  CREAMS  CAN  'FEED'  PIMPLES 
CLEARASIL  'STARVES'  THEM 

Oil  in  pores  helps  pimples  grow  and  thrive.  So  oily 
skin  creams  can  actually  'feed'  pimples.  Only  an 
oil-absorbing  medication  . . .  CLEARAStt,  helps  dry  up 
ihis  oil,  'starves'  pimples. 

'FLOATS  OUT'  BLACKHEADS 

CLEARAStt's  penetrating  medical  action  softens  and 
loosens  blackheads  from  underneath,  so  they  'float 
out'  with  normal  washing.  So  why  suffer  the  misery 
of  pimples  or  blackheads !  clearasil  is  guaranteed 
to  work  for  you,  as  in  doctors'  tests,  or  money  back. 
Only  69*  at  all  drug  counters  (economy  size  98^. 

[I 

^^^^,  JiooiHwualutftagJ 

Largest-Selling  Pimple 
Medication  in  America  (including  Canada) 


23 


Your  dreams 
are  getting  better 
all  the  time! 


NOW  YOU  CAN 


WIN  ^20,000 

maidenfirm 
dream  contest 

Dreams  were  never  this  good  before !  What's  the  dream  you'd 
most  like  to  see  in  one  of  Maidenf orm's  fabulous  ads  ?  Quick  — 
write  it  down,  send  it  in !  If  your  entry  is  accompanied  by  the 
word  maidmform  cut  from  the  cardboard  tag  attached  to 
each  bra,  or  cut  from  the  bra  package,  your  winnings  are 
doubled!  Yes,  your  dreams  are  worth  more  than  ever! 
Imagine !  You  can  win  up  to  $20,000  for  dreaming  up  a  new 
Maidenf orm  dream.  Don't  wait... enter  today! 


242  Prizes!  Each  can  be  doubled!  First  Prize  $10,000  casii! 
Second  Prize  $3,000  cash!  Third  Prize  $1,000  cash!  4  prizes  of 
$250  each;  10  prizes  of  $100  each!  25  prizes  of  $50  each  and 
200  prizes  of  $20  each! 
Remember,  each  prize  is  DOUBLED  if  you  follow  rules  carefully! 


24 


»REG.   U.  S.   PAT.   OFF. 

1957  MAIDENPORM   DREAM   CONTEST- OFFICIAL  RULES 

1.  Send  In  as  many  entrias  as  you  wish.  However,  each  entry  must  he  submitted  with  an  official 
entry  blanh.  Additional  entry  blanks  may  be  picked  up  at  any  Maidenform  retailer.  Each  entry 
must  be  accompanied  by  a  different  statement  of  twenty-five  words  or  less  v/hich  completes  this 
sentence;  "1  prefer  Maidenforrn,  world's  most  popular  bra,  because  . . .". 

2.  All  entries  will  be  Judged  by  The  Reuben  H.  Donnelley  Corporation  on  the  basis  of  originality, 
aptness  and  general  interest  of  the  dream  suggestion  and  statement  which  accompanies  it.  Fancy 
entries  won't  count  extra.  Judges'  decisions  will  be  final.  All  entries  become  the  exclusive 
property  of  the  sponsor;  and  all  rights  are  given  by  the  contestant,  without  compensation,  for 
use  of  all  or  any  part  of  his  entry  in  the  sponsor's  advertising.  Duplicate  prizes  awarded  in  case 
of  ties.  The  entry  must  be  the  original  work  of  the  contestant. 

a.  Prize  awards  will  be  doubled  providing  the  prize  winning  entry  is  accompanied  by  the  word 
mtf^en/ffrm\t\  its  characlerisifFscript  cut  from  the  v/ash  tag  on  a  Maidenforrn  brassiere  or  from  any 
other  paper  material  accompanying  the  brassiere.  This  means,  any  printed  i^a^c^mzr^ maii^n/^jrm 
on  the  Individual  bra  package.  A  sales  slip  also  will  qualify  if  it  specifies  a  Maidenforrn  bra, 

4.  Any  person  may  enter  the  contest,  except  employees,  or  members  of  their  immediate  families, 
of  the  sponsor  and  its  advertising  agencies.  All  memtwrs  of  a  family  may  enter,  hut  only  one 
prize  will  be  awarded  to  a  family.  Contest  Is  subject  to  government  regulations. 

6.  Send  alt  entries  to:  Maidenforrh  Dream  Contest,  P.  0.  Box  SQA,  Mount  Vernon  10,  New  York. 
Entries  must  be  postmarked  no  later  than  April  13,  1957,  and  received  by  April  25,  1957. 

e.  All  winners  v/ill  be  notified  by  mail  within  six  weeks  of  closing  date.  Winners'  list  will  be  sent 
to  all  who  request  it  with  a  self-addressed  stamped  envelope. 


Chansonette*. . .  the  all-time  favorite  —  the  bra 
featured  in  the  now-classic  dream  ads  "I  dreamed 
I  was  a  toreador . . .",  "/  dreamed  I  played  Cleo- 
patra . . .",  "/  dreamed  I  vjas  voted  best  dressed 
woman . . ."!  You,  too,  can  dream  up  a  dream  for 
this  bra!  Then  look  like  a  dream  — wear  it! 

$2.00,  $2.50 


Official  Entry  Blank 

"I  dreamed  i . 


MAIDENFORM  OREAM  CONTEST 

P.  0.  BoxSgA 

Mt.  Vernon  10,  New  York 


Jn  my  Maidenforrn  bra," 


NAME. 


STREET., 
CITY 


_STATE_ 


Complete  this  sentence  in  25  vrords  or  less;  "I  prefer  Maidenforrn,  world's  most  popular  bra,  because 


"««« 


isSS^ 


S^^ 


*s>t^ 


n^    ^^ 


.    ,   t  .  r 


Lawrence  Welk  with  (left  to  right)  Peggy,  Dianne,  Kathy  and  Janet  Lennon.  "They 
are  such  sweet  girls,"  he  says,  "it  does  your  heart  good  just  to  be  around  them." 


Music  was  just  a  natural  way  of  life 
in  the  Lennons'  house  of  harmony. 
Now  it's  proved  to  be  the  natural  way 
to  fame  on  the  Lawrence  Welk  shows  ! 
By  BUD  GOODE 


1AWRENCE  Welk's  biggest  Christmas  present  to  ABC-TV 
.  viewers  a  year  ago  was  an  enchanting  young  singing 
quartet  billed  as  The  Lennon  Sisters.  And  sisters  they 
really  are,  part  of  a  happy,  loving  family  of  Lennons 
who  live  in  a  large,  welcoming  house  in  Venice,  California. 

The  Lennon  sisters  come  by  their  singing  naturally, 
since  their  dad.  Bill  Lennon,  was  one  of  a  brother  singing 
quartet  with  his  brothers  Pat,  Bob  and  Ted  Lennon. 
Dianne,  Peggy,  Kathy  and  Janet  simply  grew  from  a 
Dianne-Peggy  duo  to  a  Dianne-Peggy-Kathy  trio  to  the 
ultimate  quartet  when  Janet  was  old  enough  to  join  in 


See  Next  Page  ^ 


25 


Duo:  A  family-album  picture,  taken 
when  Dionne  was  almost  three  years 
old  and  Peggy  was  a  year-and-a-half. 


Trio:  And  by  this  time  Dianne  was  a 
schoolgirl  of  seven,  Peggy  was  five, 
and  "newcomer"  Kothy  was  just  three. 


Quartet:  Then  the  "newcomer"  was 
Janet,  at  three.  By  now,  Dianne  was 
ten,  Peggy  was  eight,  and  Kothy,  six. 


Above,  Bill  Lennon  with  his  four  singing  daughters. 
Th$  family  has  grown  and  grown,  so  they're  glad  to  be 
living  in  a  "new"  larger  home  at  Venice,  California. 


The  Lawrence  Welk  Show  is  seen  on  ABC-TV,  Sat.,  9  P.M.,  for 
Dodge  Dealers  of  America.  Lawrence  Welk's  Top  Tunes  And  New 
Talent,  ABC-TV,  Mon.,  9 :30  P.M.,  for  both  Dodge  and  Plymouth. 
The  Lawrence  Welk  Army  Show  is  heard  on  ABC  Radio,  Sat.,  at 
10:05  P.M.  Welk  and  his  artists  are  heard  on  Best  Bands  In  The 
Land,  ABC  Radio,  Wed.,  9 :30  P.M.,  also  at  various  other  times 
and  days    (see  local   papers;    all  times  given  here  are  EST). 


song.  Completely  without  professional  training,  the 
Lennon  girls  just  sang — starting  with  Irish  lullabies  and 
working  up  to  more  complex  tunes  and  more  complex 
harmonic  effects.  To  this  day,  they  do  not  work  from 
musical  scores  but  are  natural  singers  for  whom,  with 
some  rehearsal,  the  close  harmonic  blending  of  voices 
is  as  effortless  as  breathing. 

In  a  way,  it  is  a  special  miracle  that  they  were  ever 
given  the  chance  to  brighten  up  the  lives  of  the  millions 


Plenty  of  room  for  exercise  in  the  new  back  yard.  Here 
golfer  Dianne  practices  her  driving  stance,  Kathy  and 
Janet  play  tether  ball,   Peggy  keeps  Billy  out  of  range. 


26 


I 


ki« 


If  I1i  h 


v^ 


^^ 


P-. 


/ 


.. 


^^ 


Music  to  sing  in  a  circle:  Dionne,  Janet,"  Peggy  and  Kathy  gather  around  Lawrence  Welk — whose  son, 
Lawrence,  Jr.,  actually  discovered  the  Lennon  Sisters   and  talent-scouted  them  for  fother's  TV  shows. 

Music  to  dance  by:  Dionne  and  Larry         Janet  takes  a  turn  with   "boss  man"  Dianne    with    Lawrence    Welk,    Jr. — 

Dean   can't   resist,   during    rehearsal.         Welk,  who  builds  up  her  confidence.  who  discovered  the  four  Cinderellas! 


Long  before  Elvis  Presley  became  a  controversial  and  world-famous  performer, 
the  home  folks  in  Memphis,  Tettnessee,  knew  and  admired  him.    And,  long 
before  he  flashed  to  singing  success  on  TV,  his  first  fans  were  the  students  at 
Humes  High  School,  who  bought  up  the  records  of  the  boy  they  knew  as  one  of 
the  Humes  "grads."    In  this  unique  and  true-to-heart  story,  the  Humes 
teacher  he  greatly  admired  gives  a  new  perspective  on  Presley.    THE  EDITORS 


30 


Elvis  a  "bad  influence"?    Remennbering  hinn  as  I  knew  him,  I  can't  ever 
believe  that.    I'm  proud  to  share  my  memories  with  the  girls  at  Humes. 


And 

when 


that's   just  what  I   told  Jack   Barry 
I  appeared  on  his  Twenty-One  quiz. 


By  MILDRED  SCRIVENER 

History  Teacher,  Humes  High  School,  Memphis,  Tennessee 

NOT  LONG  AGO,  I  was  invited  to  come  to  New  York  to  be  on 
Jack  Barry's  quiz  show,  Twenty-One.  The  first  thing  they 
asked  me  was  if  I  thought  Elvis  Presley  was  a  bad  influence. 
To  have  answered  that  question  the  way  I  wanted  to  answer  it 
would  have  taken  up  the  entire  program  time.  For  I  had  in 
mind  what  had  happened  just  a  short  while  before  in  Memphis. 
Elvis  was  home  for  a  few  days  before  going  over  to  Tupelo,  where 
they  were  celebrating  "Elvis  Presley  Day"  at  their  fair. 

Elvis  had  come  from  Hollywood,  where  he  had  almost  finished 
work  on  his  first  picture,  "Love  Me  Tender."  Had  he  chosen  to 
sell  that  time,  he  could  have  appeared  in  any  theater  in  the  country 
at  his  own  price.  He  was  very  tired.  He  could  have  sat  and 
loafed.  Instead,  Elvis  made  a  bee  line  for  {Continued  on  page  84) 


His  parents  (below,  left)  couldn't  have  been  happier,  when  all  Tennessee  turned  out  to  celebrate  "Elvis  Presley  Day." 


"What  THE  $64,000 


Hal  March  was  as  happy  as  Mrs.  De  Berry  herself,  when  the  74-year-old 
widow  did  so  well  in  her  category.  She  says  now,  "I  would  have  stood  up  there 
for  the  $64,000  question  itself— just  for  the  love  of  Shakespeare.    But  .  .  ." 


WITH  A  CATCH  in  her  voice,  still  un- 
able to  believe  what  had  hap- 
pened, Mrs.  Frances  C.  De  Berry  said, 
"Never  in  my  whole  life  did  I  dream  of 
such  a  thing  as  this!"  For  five  weeks, 
the  74-year-old  widow  from  Louis- 
ville, Kentucky,  had  been  a  contestant 
on  The  $64,000  Question.  Five  weeks, 
culminating  in  the  dream  Mrs.  De 
Berry  had  never  dared  to  have.  The 
first  time,  she  had  appeared  only 
briefly,  in  the  closing  moments  of  the 
show,  and  selected  Shakespeare  as 
her  category.  When  she  returned  for 
her  initial  questioning,  she  reached 
the  $4,000  level.  On  the  next  pro- 
gram, she  ascended  the  $8,000  plateau. 
The    following    week,     the     end     of 


the  program  came  before  she  could 
tell  master-of-ceremonies  Hal  March 
whether  she  chose  to  attempt  the 
$16,000  question — or  retire  with  the 
$8,000  she  had  already  won.  Seven 
days  later,  she  announced  that  she 
would  indeed  try  for  the  $16,000.  She 
won,  and  was  content.  For  her,  a 
whole  new  vista  had  opened  to  view. 
"Seventy-four  years  on  the  high- 
way of  life,"  she  breathed,  "and  just 
now,  just  now,  this — what  shall  I  call 
it? — this  transition.  Yes,  transition, 
for  it  is  going  to  change  me.  I  will 
never  be  as  I  was  before.  I  can't  go 
back  to  the  old  life.  I  will  never  feel 
quite  so  much  at  home  in  Louisville 
again,  always  thinking  of  New  York, 


Mrs.  Frances  De  Berry 

climbed  up  to  the  $16,000 
plateau — and  stopped  there, 
to  enjoy  a  view  of  life  of 
which   she'd  never   dreamed 


thinking  of  the  strangers  who  gave  me 
such  a  break.  .   .   . 

"Or  could  I,  without  being  sac- 
rilegious, call  it  a  miracle?  During 
a  lifetime  of  hard  work,  with  the  joys 
and  the  sorrows  that  come  to  all  of  us, 
frequently  worrying  about  the  future, 
sometimes  I  thought  maybe  He  didn't 
hear  me.  Now  I  know  He  does.  I 
think  He  was  with  me  on  the  train 
from  Louisville  up  to  New  York  .  .  . 
with  me  when  the  wonderful  people 
who  interview  you  for  The  $64,000 
Question  said,  'We  like  you'  ...  and 
when  Mr.  Mert  Koplin,  the  producer 
of  the  show,  said,  'You  have  a  great 
knowledge  of  Shakespeare,'  and  I 
realized  that  (Continued  on  page  90) 


The  $64,000  Question,  with  Hal  March  as  master  of  ceremonies,  is  seen  over  CBS-TV,  Tuesdays,  at  10  P.M.  EST,  sponsored  by  Revlon,  Inc. 


32 


QUESTION  Meant  to  Me" 


Thomas  J.  Kane 

found  the  route  to  fortune 
while  driving  his  cab — and 
then  went  all  the  way,  to 
win    top    prize    of    $64,000 

By  GLADYS  HALL 


HEADLINES  -shouted:  "Cab  Driver 
Picks  Up  $64,000!"  Reporters 
spread  the  news:  "A  $64,000  fare  was 
registered  last  night  by  Thomas  J. 
Kane,  49-year-old  cab  driver  from 
Lockport,  N.  Y.,  who  correctly  me- 
tered the  top-money  question  in  his 
'English  Language'  category  on  The 
$64,000  Question."  And  how  did  Irish- 
born  Thomas  J.  Kane  himself  feel 
about  it  all,  in  the  daze  that  followed? 
Lunching  at  a  Fifth  Avenue  hotel  in 
New  York  City,  a  few  afternoons  aft- 
er that  memorable  night,  red-headed 
cab  driver  Kane  was  happily  smiling 
but  somewhat  wonder-struck,  as  he 
regarded  the  elegant  menu. 

"The  few  times  I've  eaten  in  a  place 

Continued     w 


Tom  Kane  and  Hal  March  con  laugh  now,  as  they  point  out  the  fifth  part 
of  Tom's  eight-part  final  question  on  the  English  Language.  It's  the  "only 
edgy  monnent"  Tom  can  recall — and,  as  he  says,  "The  luck  of  the  Irish  held!" 


33 


"What  TH 


Tom  Kane  enjoys  driving  a  cab,  says,  "I  like  people.  When  you  like  people, 
you  talk  to  thenn."  If  he  hadn't  talked  to  four  passengers,  one  memorable  day 
in  Buffalo,  the  whole  neighborhood  might  not  be  clamoring  for  his  autograph! 


(Continued) 


2 


like  this,"  said  Mr.  Kane,  a  quizzical 
expression  in  his  bright  blue  eyes, 
"I  have  always  looked  at  the  right- 
hand  column  first — with  a  very  an- 
alytical eye.  Eighty  cents  for  soup, 
now!  Strikes  me  with  a  sort  of  hor- 
ror. It  takes  a  man  time,  I  suppose, 
to  get  used  to  such  extravagance. 
For  many  years,  I  have  worked  for 
the  Van  Dyke  Cab  Company  in 
Buffalo,  some  twenty-two  miles  from 
Lockport,  where  I  live.  From  sixty 
to  one  hundred  and  twenty  dollars  a 
week  is  about  the  best  you  can  make 
as  a  cab  driver,  and  eighty  is  about 
average.  Come  to  think  of  it,  I  made 
the  hundred-twenty  only  once,  and 
that  by  dint  of  driving  a  fare  from 
Buffalo  to  Canada  and  part  way 
back  again! 

"It  follows,  then,  that  the  fare  I 
'picked  up'  on  The  $64,000  Question 
is  the  biggest  I  ever  metered  in  my 
tallest  dreams — but  no  dream  so  tall 
as  that  I  would  ever  be  looking  at  a 
checkbook,  my  checkbook,  with  $64- 
000  entered  in  it,  plain  to  see.  After 
Uncle  Sam  takes  his  bite  of  it — and 
welcome!— $27,700  will  be  left.  $27,- 
700  for  five  days'  fun!  And  thanks 
be  for  it,  not  only  to  the  program, 
but  to  my  mother,  who  was  a  school- 
teacher in  Armagh.  That's  a  small 
town  thirty-three  miles  from  Belfast, 
where  I  was  born  and  raised  in  a 
working-class  home. 

"My  earliest  memory,"  Tom  Kane 
recalled,  "is  of  my  mother  bringing 
in    the     {Continued    on    page     91) 


Rembert    Wurlitzer    understands,    as 
Tom  plays  the  longed-for  Stradivorius. 


$64,000  QUESTION  Meant  to  Me" 


Relatives  and  friends  help  read  the  mail  which  has  been  pouring  in  on  bachelor -Tom.  Some 
letters  ask  for  money,  others  osk  how  they,  too,  can  get  on  the  program.  Tom  himself  plans  to 
spend  his  money  cautiously — with  emphasis  on  hobbies  which  always  occupied  his  leisure  time. 


BiiiilB_j 

^^H^S^*      ■ 

*-, 

Ml 

He    shows    niece,    Mrs.    Phyllis    King, 
one  of  the  early  pictures  he  painted. 


At  home,  he  putters  around  garden  with 
his    sister,    Mrs.    Charlotte    Coutourier. 


Tom  shows  niece  Pat  Moher  the  diction- 
ary given  him  by  assistant  on  program. 


Chris,  ot  five-and-a-half,  finds  Mommy  is  a  perfect  com- 
panion, whefher  they're  exploring  Central  Park  together  or 
examining  a  space-ship-of-the-future  at  Hayden  Planetarium. 


He  loves  the  Museum  of  Natural  History  and  haunts  the 
hiall  of  Dinosaurs.  "I"  don't  know  a  Stegosaurus  from  a 
Steinway,"   Margaret  gaily  admits,    "but   I'm   learning!" 


PEPPER   YOUNG'S   \A/IFE 


To  Margaret  Draper,  Linda  is  more 
than  a  part  to  be  played — for 
acting  is  just  an  enlargement  of  life 

By  MARY  PARKER 

THEY  ALL  love  Linda,  these  devoted  listeners  to  Pepper 
Young's  Family,  as  heard  over  NBC  Radio.    Their 
letters  to  Margaret  Draper  prove  it.    Her  voice  and 
inflections  have  told  them  that  Margaret  is  perfectly  cast 
as  Pepper's  wife,  Linda.   Their  own  intuition  tells  them 
she'd  always  be  perfectly  cast  as  a  yoting  wife  and 
mother — a  pretty  one,  too!    And  it's  all  true. 

A  graceful,  slender  redhead  with  arresting  forget-me-not 
blue  eyes,  Margaret  finds  that  her  acting  career  has 
virtually  been  dedicated  to  matrimony,  not  only  on  radio 
and  TV  but  on  stage,  as  well.   Two  years  ago,  she 
achieved  her  childhood  dream  of  Broadway  stardom,  when 
she  appeared  in  "The  Gambler" — in  the  role  of  Alfred 
Drake's  wife.    In  another  successful  venture   onto   the 
legitimate  stage,  "Sing  Me  No  Lullabies,"  she  was 
again  a  hit — and  again  a  wife. 

"I  suppose  I'm  just  naturally  the  wifely  type,"  Margaret 
admits,  with  mock  resignation  in  her  melodious,  slightly  . 
husky  voice.  "Perhaps  it's  because  I  come  from  a  large, 
very  normal,  non.- theatrical  family.  {Continued  on  page  86) 

Margaret  Draper  is  Linda  Young  in  Pepper  Young's  Family,  as  heard 
on  NBC  Radio,  M-F,  at  3:45  P.M.  EST,  under  multiple  sponsorship. 


Mommy  Is  a  good  pal  with  whom  to  share  an  informal  picnic 
in  the  park.  But  Chris  knows  that  Margaret's  a  good  actress, 
too — "because  she  can  read  'Little  Lulu'  better'n  anybody." 


Turnabout:  Margaret  shares  not  only  his  entertainment 
but  his  education.  She  admires  the  teaching  profession, 
helps  out  with  volunteer  library  work  at  Chris's  school. 


People  Are  Funny  —  linkletter 
knows  they  can  be  lonely,  too! 
Gazing  at  their  ring,  John  and 
Barbara  aren't  lonely  anymore. 


^^ 


y 


/ 


nN 


\ 


S^^ggar' 


S^ 


<<^L^    ^ 


^^ 


\ 


'•Ji'.JfS.Jj 


IVIi- 


nd  IVIi^^  Uni 


38 


The.  huge  electronic  computing  machine  called 
Univac  bears  little  resemblance  to  chubby 
old-fashioned  Cupid  with  his  bow  and  arrow. 
But  Univac  proved  a  successful  matchmaker 
for  young  Barbara  Smith  and  John  Caran 


Through  questionnaires,  Barbara  and  John  told  Univac 
they  preferred  owning  a  honne.  John  had  already  made  his 
dream  come  true.  Now  they  discuss  furnishings — together. 


By  ELSA  MOLINA 

BOY  MEETS  GIRL  is  a  familiar  theme  in  Hollywood. 
But  even  there,  where  romance  comes  by  the  reel, 
boy  seldom  meets  girl  as  John  Caran  met  Barbara ' 
Smith  on  People  Are  Funny— brought  together  by  a 
"thinking  machine"!  It  was  emcee  Art  Linkletter,  of 
course,  who  performed  the  actual  introductions  on  the 
air.  But  the  real  Cupid  in  the  case  was  an  electronic 
marvel  known  as  Univac.  For  months,  Linkletter  and 
his  staff  had  been  "feeding"  the  machine  with  person- 
ality profiles,  in  the  form  of  coded  questionnaires,  to 
determine  whether  or  not  Univac  could  successfully 
match  the  hearts  of  a  boy  and  a  girl  who'd  never  met. 
And  now,  after  comparing  14,000  pairs,  Univac  had 
decided  that  John  Caran   (six  feet  tall,  190  pounds, 
brunet  and  28)  and  Barbara  Smith  (five-feet-seven,  130 
pounds,  brunette  and  23)  were  {Continued  on  page  68) 

People  Are  Funny,  as  emceed  by  Art  Linkletter,  is  seen  on  NBC-TV 
Sat.,  7:30  P.M.  EST,  for  Salem  Cigarettes  and  The  Toni  Company- 
heard  on  NBC  Radio,  Wed.,  8  P.M.  EST,  under  multiple  sponsorship. 


Barbara  first  saw  John's  house  the  day  he  gave  a 
big  barbecue  party.  She  said,  "I  like  it  very  much, 
if   I'd   done   it  myself,    I   wouldn't  change  a   thing!" 


Now  that  they're  engaged,  they're  more  interested  in 
kitchens  than  in  dining  out.  More  and  more,  they  find 
they   have   tastes   in   common — as    Univac   foretold. 


Erin  studies  score  In  her  dressing 
room,  but  eyes  often  stray  to  snaps 
of  her  toddler  sons,  Pat  and  Greg. 


Music  has  always  been  an  important 
part  of  their  family  life.  Husband 
James    Fitzgerald   is   a   singer,   too! 


Ui   \    f 


After  show,  Erin  and  Jimmy  stop 
at  a  soda  fountain,  discuss  their 
dream  of  a  musical  career  together. 


Tonight  was  the  night  for  Erin,  when  Steve  asked  her 
to  sing,  right  in  the  studio  audience.  Now  she  sings  on 
The  Steve  Allen  Show,  Skhch  hlenderson  accompanying. 


^^m 

m 

if 

P     / 

ijL 

>'N 

»i 

I^^KA 

5^^ 

r^ 

With  the  Irish  gift  of  song — and 
Steve  Allen  s  show — Erin  O'Brien  has 
everything  a  colleen  could  desire 

By  JUDITH  FIELD 

SOMETIMES  luck  Strikes  a  lady  with  the  speed  of 
lightning,  and  with  all  its  electrifying  force. 
That's  the  way  it  was  with  Erin  O'Brien. 
Little  more  than  six  months  ago,  she  was  a  very 
pretty  girl  who  had  once  done  some  singing  and 
now  spent  all  her  time  taking  care  of  her  house 
and  two  children.    Suddenly,  one  night,  the 
spotlight  singled  her  out  of  Steve  Allen's  studio 
audience,  she  sang  one  little  song — and  became 
one  of  the  most  popular  new  singers  in  television. 

"Erin  O'Brien  has  the  potential  to  become  a 
very  big  star,"  says  Steve.    "If  I  do,"  says  Erin, 
"it  will  be  marvelous,  and  I'm  going  to  work 
hard  and  do  my  best.  But,  if  not,  I'll  stiU  be 
happy."   You  know  that's  the  way  it  really  is, 
when  you  see  her  eyes  sparkle  as  she  shows 
you  snapshots  of  five-year-old  Pat  and  two-year- 
old  Greg  and  her  husband,  Jimmy  Fitzgerald — 
who  is  also  a  singer — and  when  you  hear  the 
warmth  of  her  voice,  as  she  talks  about  Mom 
and  Dad  and  the  thirteen  (Continued  on  page  77) 

Erin  O'Brien  sings  on  The  Steve  Allen  Show,  as  seen  over 
NBC-TV,  Sun.,  8  P.M.  EST,  sponsored  by  Viceroy  Cigarettes, 
Andrew  Jergens  Company,  Polaroid,  Maybelline,  and  others. 


^^^ 

^w^*^ 


Young  Sanford  Clark  hardly  dared  to 
hope.   Then  a  song  soared  out  of 
Phoenix,  and  it  seemed  all  America 
ivas  listening  to  "Sandy's"  voice 


Guitarist  At  Casey  is  an  old  friend  of  Sanford's. 
At  left,  the  two  with  composer-deejay  Lee  Hazelwood, 
near  the  auditoriunn  in  Phoenix  where  Lee  first  heard 
Sanford  sing — and  suggested  they  record  "The  Fool." 

By  EUNICE  FIELD 

IT  WAS  a  very  ordinary  night  some  eight  mionths 
ago*.  .  .  a  night  when  thousands  of  young 
entertainers  throughout  the  country  must  have 
looked  into  their  mirrors  and  asked  the  same 
old   heart-breaking    question,    "WiU   tomorrow   be 
the  big  day — and  will  I  be  the  lucky  one  this 
time?"    In   Phoenix,   Arizona,   on   this   ordinary 
night,    three   young   men    stood    expectantly 
around   an   ordinary  piggy-bank   as   one   of  them 


Baby-sitter:  The  Hazelwood  young- 
sters think  a   lot  of  Sanford,  too. 


Collector:  He  has  a  big  scrapbook 
— filled  with   pictures  of  his  fans! 


Continued 


Mechanic:   Tinkering   with   his  old 
car,  he  dreanns  of  a  shiny  new  one. 


SIIMGIN*  F^^OI. 


Phoemx  Union  High  School:  1+  was  Phoenix  Tech,  when 
Sonford  was  a  student.  "Too  thin"  for  athletic  teams, 
he  did  well  at  R.O.T.C.,  later  joined  the  Air  Force. 


First  grief:  He  was  just  a  bewildered  boy  when  his 
parents,  Connie  and  Geneva  Pool  Clark,  parted.  From 
then  on,  he  and  Geneva  lived  with  Grandfather  Pool. 


SINGIIM' 


(Continued) 

raised  a  ball-hammer  and  brought  it  smartly  down 
on  the  ceramic  snout.  A  jingle  of  coins  fell  on  the  table. 
Their  silerice  at  that  moment  was  like  a  prayer. 

That  was  the  moment,  young  Sanford  Clark  has 
come  to  believe,  when  the  long  whimsical  finger  of 
fortune  reached  out  and  anointed  his  forehead.  .  .  .  For, 
with  those  savings,  the  three  young  hopefuls  made 
the  great  gamble.    Early  the  next  day,  they  rented 
a  studio  and  recorded  "The  Fool,"  a  song  composed 
by  Lee  Hazelwood,  Phoenix  disc  jockey.    Sanford  did 
the  singing  and  Al  Casey,  a  lifelong  friend,  ac- 
companied him  on  the  guitar.  .  .  .    And,  for  each  of 
this  trio,  the  gamble  paid  off  brilliantly.    Copies  of 
the    record    were    sent    out   to    disc    jockeys    and    Bill 
Randall  of  Station  WERE,  Cleveland,  liked  it  enough 
to  send  it  to  Randy  Wood,  president  of  Dot  Records, 
who  snatched  it  up.    On  release,  it  climbed  swiftly 
into  the  top  ten,  soaring  above  the  800,000  mark, 
at  a  recent  count. 

Requests  for  new  songs  have  showered  upon  Lee; 
applause  from  all  quarters  has  thundered  in  on 
Al   Casey.    And   that  star   of  fame,   so   passionately 
yearned  for  by  thousands  of  singers,  blazes  more 
brightly   each  passing  day  above   the  handsome  head 
of  a  twenty-one-year-old  lad  who,  stunned  and 
frightened   by   the   clamor,   smiles   helplessly   at   his 
interviewer  with  the  plea,   "What  can   I  tell  you 
about   myself?     Come   back   when   I've   lived   a   little, 
please   ..." 

This  plea  of  Sanford's  is  not  likely  to  be  honored, 
especially  now  that  they've  waxed  their  second 
disc,  "A  Cheat,"  and  songwriters  all  over  the  country 
are    deluging   Sanford    with    special   material   and 
arrangements  tailored  to  his  distinctive  voice  and  style. 
The  public,  which  is  never  inclined  to  heed  the 
reservations  of  modesty  when  it  chooses  a  favorite, 
has  in  fact  begun  to  demand  that  the  spotlight  be 
broadened  to  cover  not  only  Sanford  and  his  two 
talented  friends,  but  the  background  of  a  story  glimpsed 
only  briefly   in   the  press   so  far. 

Sorrow  came  early  to  the  child  of  Connie  and 
Geneva  Pool  Clark,  born  to  them  on  October  24,  1935, 
on  the  outskirts  of  Tulsa,  Oklahoma.    At  the  age 


44 


New  delight:  Sanford,  at  12,  and  his  youthful  uncle, 
Dan  Pool  (left),  with  their  cherished  guitars.  Susie, 
a  neighbor's  child,  was  his  first  girl — and  first  fan. 


Boyhood  treasures:  He  has  tragic  memories  of  his  dog  "Butch." 
But  the  second-hand  bike  his  mother  gave  him  on  his  eleventh 
birthday  became  a  constant  companion — also  a  working  partner! 


\ 


N. 


of  nine,  his  little  world  broke  apart.    Grownups  have 
great  and  mysterious  problems  which,  like  powerful 
tides,  carry  little  boys  with  them.    Connie  and 
Geneva    were    dec6nt,    hard-working    people    who 
were  operating  a  small  filling  station  near  Winslow, 
Arizona.    But,  as  with  so  many  others  who  were 
fighting  the  battle  of  the  Depression,  their  customers 
diminished  with  betd  times  (Continued  on  page  87) 


Picture  at  left  was  snapped  on  base — on  his  twentieth  birth- 
day. Picture  at  right  was  also  taken  in  1955  with  "best  girl" 
Lucy  Thrasher,  whose  sister  is  now  president  of  his  fan  club. 


Off-duty  from  his  four-year  hitch  in  the  Air  Force, 
he  makes  a  surprise  appearance  with  a  band  In  Phoenix 
— is  surprised  himself,  when  the  girls  gather  around. 


^r  *.',■•    ''V       .v-^-'/'j^w^ 


.\.-^-f^,'-1'vz  :%.^?!»^»wffT;j^psp;i^*j?-'!?T^<*»-''«;  •''-^-fiinjf^j:^,  "^r.'-^r-a^KHiyTtfHi^ffl 


It's  normal,  says  Ozzie,  for  growing  boys  to  "kick  over  the  traces  o  little."  And 
_.ifair,  adds  Harriet,  to  judge  them  by  the  few  who  make  bad  headlines.  Sons  David 
(just  turned  20)  and  Ricky  (not  yet  17)  take  an  even  closer  view  of  teen  problems. 


un 


46 


Don't  Call  Teenagers 

"DELINQUENTS" 


David  and  Ricky  Nelson  have  a  man-size 
gripe.    Ozzie  and  Harriet  agree,  wondering 
if  other  parents  don't  remember  when — ? 

By  MAURINE  REMENIH 

I'm  getting  just  a  little  tired  of  reading  about  how 
the  younger  generation  is  going  to  the  dogs!" 
David  Nelson,  ordinarily  a  man  of  few  words  (and 
those  few  apt  to  be  polite  and  soft-spoken) ,  was  Having 
His  Say.    "Seems  like  these  days  anyone  from 
thirteen  through  nineteen  is  forced  to  feel  apologetic 
about  his  age.  With  the  amount  of  publicity  being  given 
juvenile  delinquents,  a  lot  of  folks  seem  to  have  the 
idea  that  anyone  in  that  age  bracket  is  hopeless." 

Sitting  around  in  an  earnest  huddle,  the  four  Nelsons, 
so  familiar  in  living  rooms  across  the  nation  for 
their  weekly  show,  The  New  Adventures  Of  Ozzie 
And  Harriet,  over  ABC-TV,  thrashed  out  this 
mass  indictment  of  today's  (Continued  on  page  80) 

The  New  Adventures  Of  Ozzie  And  Harriet  stars  all  four  Nelsons,  as 
seen  on  ABC-TV,  Wed.,  9  P.M.  EST,  sponsored  by  Eastman  Kodak. 


Ricky  likes  his  rock  'n'  roll — whether  dancing  or  jann- 
ming  on  the  drums.  He  can  hold  open  house  for  his 
friends,  can't  get  an  argument  from  Mom  on  r.  &  r. 
(But  just  ask  them  both  about  those  Presley  records!) 


David  and  Ricky  can  get  very  excited  about  cars — 
and  very  serious  about  the  world,  talking  man  to 
man.  Ozzie  and  Harriet  are  sure  this  generation 
has  a  wider  range  of  knowledge  than  previous  ones. 


n 


# 


>.*  ■ 


■   ft:- 


^'"'•(li.x.^... 


INDIANA  Loves  Herb  Shriner 


Here  in  Fort  Wayne,  we  know  our 
Hoosier  humorist  doesn't  "come  back 
home."   He  never  really  left ! 

By  CLIFF  MILNOR 

The  Journal-Gazette,  Fort  Wayne,  Indiana 

HERB  Shriner  differs  from  many  other  entertainers 
who  are  always  "on  stage."  He  never  is.  He  is 
scratching  the  same-sized  head,  piilling  the  same 
ear  and  piping  his  own  peculiar  version  of  English 
through  the  same  nasal  passages  he  was  using  more 
than  twenty  years  ago.    Those  who  discount  his 
down-at-the-heels  grammar  and  Sinus  Belt  drawl  as 
the  hickish  act  of  a  sophisticate  don't  know  Shriner. 
In  Fort  Wayne,  Indiana,  there  is  a  coterie  of 
persons  who  really  know  him.   They  saw  him  grow 
up  and  cock  an  ear  toward  Fame's  faint  call.    (It 
must  have  been  faint.  Nobody  else  heard  it.) 

Early  in  1934,  a  gangling  kid,  whose  most  prominent 
feature  was   his  Adam's  apple,   started  haunting 
music  stores  and  the  halls  and  studios  of  Radio 
Station  WOWO.   Herb  played  the  harmonica  fairly 
-well  and,  by  his  own  admission,  was  getting  better  at  it. 
What's  more,  he  had  some  buddies  who  played,  and 
they  were  going  to  start  their  own  band. 

Meanwhile,  Tom  Berry,  music-store  proprietor, 
took  an  interest  in  the  kids.    (Continued  on  page   74) 

See  Next  Page  ^ 


"Harmdniacs,"  he  called  them.  Just  kids,  in  the  '30's,  they 
didn't  nnake  the  big-time,  but  Harmonica  hlerb  never 
lost  his  enthusiasm.  Pictured  here  are  hiarold  Fritze, 
hlerb  himself,  Lee  hHause,  and  Richard  Alexander  (Dick 
is  now  secretary  of  the   Fort  Wayne  musicians'   local). 


"Happy  Herb"  Haworth  saw  a  future 
in    Shriner's    humor — not    his    music. 


Dorothy  Durbin,  then  WOWO  program 
director,    tried    to    spare    his    feelings. 


Jeanne  Brown  (now  Mrs.  Dosselman) 
let   Shriner   play  the   theater   organ. 


49 


HERB  mm  Loves  Indiana 


And,  to  him,  it's  a  real  nice 

state  of  heart — "to  know  you  have  a 

place  where  you  really  belong" 


Sons  of  Indiana:  Herb  seldom  misses  a  meeting  of  these  homesick 
Hoosiers  in  New  York.  Loyal  Sons  reciprocated-,  staged  a  hoyride 
for  his  movie  premiere.  Dog-catcher  electioneer  above  is  Broadway 
columnist  Earl  Wilson,  ex  of  Ohio  (where  Herb  himself  was  born!) 
but  always  a  booster  of  home-town  boys  from  all  over  the  nation. 


By  HELEN  BOLSTAD 


THE  nation's  most  fervid  extra -marital  love  affair  is 
Herb  Shriner's  romance  with  the  state  of  Indiana.  For 
all  its  public  character,  this  is  a  real  love  and,  as 
such,  it  strikes  a  responsive  chord  with  everyone  who 
has  found  a  place  where  he  knows  he  belongs — or  has 
wished  he  might.  Herb,  via  the  slow-breaking  wise- 
crack, expresses  his  devotion  to  the  land  and  to  its  out- 
spoken people.  "You  don't  have  to  come  from  Indiana 
to  share  what  you  might  call  a  pioneer  kind  of  belief 
that  your  opinion  is  just  as  good  as  the  next  guy's,"  says 
Herb.    "But  it  helps." 

Such  candor,  he  admits,  has  its  hazards.  "Gosh,  when 
I'm  douTi  home  where  no  one  is  ashamed  to  say  what 
he  wants  to  say,  it's  all  my  life  is  worth  to  mention  maybe 
I'm  going  to  play  the  harmonica  next  week.  Sure  as 
shooting,  some  one  is  liable  to  remark,  'Do  you  have  to?'  " 


As  current  title-holder  in  a  long  line  of  Hoosier  hu- 
morists. Herb,  in  reality,  is  a  quipster  not  without  laughs 
in  his  own  country.  "Twice  they've  had  me  play  the 
Indiana  State  Fair,"  he  says  with  pride.  "They've  even 
paid  me  for  it."  Yet,  in  the  next  breath,  he  modestly 
claims  he  is  exiled  to  New  York,  and  television  simply 
because  every  Hoosier  is  a  humorist.  "I  couldn't  make 
a  living  with  jokes  back  home.  There  are  guys  just 
standing  around  on  the  street  corner  who  can  tell  a 
story  better  than  I  can." 

He  has  a  theory  why  "no  one,"  as  he  says,  "takes  him- 
self too  seriously  in  Indiana."  The  state's  motto  is  "Cross- 
roads of  the  Nation."  Herb  sees  a  cause  and  effect.  "In 
an  early  day,  it  sure  got  crossed.  Settlers  going  west 
didn't  travel  the  high  country  to  the  south  of  us,  they 
came  right  smack  across   the    {Continued  on  page   75) 


50 


Shades  of  Indiana  tractors!  This  one,  at  his  Eastern  home, 
totes  a  precious  crew — twin  sons  Kin  and  Wil,  daughter  Indy 
and  wife  Pixie.  At  left,  the  boys  "help"  Dad  with  his  film 
collection.    Below,  all  the  Shriners  are  "Harmoniocs"  today. 


f^ — 

?r^^ 

qf''''i*SW 

■mLi.  ^ 

r 

m 

\"  f 


K 


Above,  the  Borges  go  abroad:  Victor  and  Sanna,  with  Ronald,  young  Sanna, 
Ronnie's  twin,  Janet,  and  Victor  Bernhardt  (VeeBee).  Below,  at  home:  The  two 
Sannas,  VeeBee,  Victor  and  baby  Frederika,  who  was  too  young  to  take  to  sea. 


To  Victor  Borge, 
it's  wonderful — and 
sometimes  frustrating ! — 
the  ivay  everything 
he  touches  turns  to  gold 

By  LILLA  ANDERSON 


VICTOR  BoRGE  is  a  man  with  a  genius 
for  turning  the  improbable  into 
both  reality  and  strange  enchantment — 
through  the  magic  of  a  laugh.  Accord- 
ing to  all  the  experts,  no  single  per- 
former should  be  able  to  hold  a  crowd's 
attention  for  an  hour  or  two  hours  on 
end,  but  Borge  does  it.  Each  time  he 
walks  into  a  spotlight  and  sits  down  at 
the  piano,  he  captures  his  audience  by 
breaking  up  his  impressive  chords  with 
his  irrepressible  quips.  While  playing 
the  classics,  he  also  plays  the  clown. 
He  calls  it  "Comedy  in  Music,"  and 
jokes  about  that  most  solemn  thing  in 
broadcasting — money.  He  insists  his 
greatest  achievement  in  television  has 
been  that  of   (Continued  on  page  65) 


VIBo  Farm;  The  home  which  crowns  Borge's  450  acres  in 
Connecticut  is  three-storied,  rambling,  gracious.  "Like 
most   old   houses,"   Victor   explains,    "this   one   just  grew." 


One-man  show:  Borge  has  performed  his  blithe  "Comedy 
in  Music"  for  small  groups  of  Gl's  in  France,  as  well 
as  enormous  audiences  on  Broadway,  on  tour,  and  on  TV. 


W- 


Business:  Before  it  was  ViBo  Farm,  it  was  a  place  to 
hunt  pheasant.  Victor  decided  to  raise  the  birds  instead, 
now  packs  and  ships  thousands  from  his  own  modern  plant. 


History:  The  guest  hou.se  on  their  farm  is  a  centuries-old 
cottage  which  was  once  the  home  of  Ethan  Allen,  the  Rev- 
olutionary War  hero  who  led  the  Green  Mountain  Boys. 


Sir  Victor:  Knighted  by  his  native  Denmark,  the  prince 
of  unpredictable  piano  and  puns  poses  imposingly  with  a 
children's  bond  and  guard  in  Tivoli  Gardens,  Copenhagen. 


Decorating:  It's  his  hobby.  He  redoes  "Mama's  room"  as  a 
surprise,  each  time  Sanna  has  a  baby.  For  their  dining 
room,  he  borrowed  carved  casings  from  a  Southern  m.ansion. 


I.  For  Kathy  Lang  and  Mark  Holden,  true  love  has  come  at  last — but 
a  love  blocked  by  the  necessity  to  consider  the   happiness  of  others. 


54 


fter  many  joys  and  sorrows,  Kathy  faces  her  gravest  decision — and  seeks 


THE 

GUIDING 

LIGHT 


CHILDHOOD  insecurity:  You  see  the  words  often  in 
medical  reports  of  emotionally  disturbed  people. 
And  the  same  words  are  really  the  key  to  the  complex 
and  troubled  character  of  the  girl  who  was  born  Kathy 
Roberts.  Beautiful  she  was,  as  a  child.  Intelligent. 
Charming.  Too  bad  her  mother  died  when  she  was 
so  young — only  ten.  Her  father  was  devastated  by  the 
loss  of  Kathy's  mother.  The  home  grew  quiet  and 
muted  with  sorrow.  But  after  a  time  Joe  Roberts 
realized  his  absolute  need  for  a  home,  for  a  woman  to 
care  for  his  daughter,  for  a  normal  life.  And  so — 
with  a  fine  mature  love — ^he  married  Meta  Bauer  and 
turned  over  to  her  the  upbringing  of  Kathy. 

Meta,  deeply  in  love  with  Joe,  undertook  her  role 
as  stepmother  with  vigor  and  the  high  hope  that  Kathy 
would  accept  her  as  her  own  mother.  But  Kathy  re- 
fused to  adapt  herself  to  the  new  relationship.  Her 
ill-concealed  hostility  to  this  family  situation  really 
accounts  for  all  that  has  happened  to  Kathy  in  the 
years  of  growing  up.  In  these  years  she  has  caused 
herself  much  pain — she  has  brought  others  to  disaster. 

At  seventeen,  Kathy's  yearning  for  attention  and 
affection  made  it  easy  for  her  to  fall  in  love  with  Dick 
Grant,  who  was  then  only  beginning  medical  school. 
Had  Kathy's  wish  to  marry  Dick  not  been  frustrated 
by  Dick's  mother,  she  might  have  made  a  satisfactory 
adjustment  during  those  turbulent  teen-age  years. 
Her  feelings  of  rejection  explained  her  hasty,  secret 
marriage  to  Bob  Lang— but  it  didn't  take  Kathy  long 
to  realize  she  had  made  a  serious  mistake  for  herself 
and  Bob.  Driving  home  one  night,  Kathy  asked  Bob 
for  a  divorce — he  lost  control  of  the  car  and  was 
immediately  killed  in  an  accident  which  left  Kathy 
imharmed  physically  but  scarred  emotionally  for  years 
to  come.  Bob  Lang's  death  left  behind  him  a  desperate 
teenager  who  was  soon  to  be  the  mother  of  his  child. 

Dick  Grant's  proposal  of  marriage  seemed  to  offer 
her  a  haven.  Not  only  was  she  still  in  love  with  him, 
but  this  might  be  a  way  to  keep  secret  forever  her 
disastrous  marriage  to  Bob  Lang.  Or  so  Kathy  ration- 
alized, confused  and  seeking  a  way  out  of  her  predica- 
ment. So  Kathy  was  married  a  second  time.  Her  basic 
insecurity  was  such  that  she  did  not  tell  Dick  of  her 
secret  marriage  to  Bob,  and  let  him  believe  that  the 
little  girl  she  bore  was  his  own  child.  Yet  the  guilt 
she  felt  in  this  falsehood  was  to  ruin  her  marriage  to 
Dick.  When  she  eventually  admitted  the  whole  sorry 


2.  Mark  is  growing  increasingly  disturbed  over 
Kathy's  refusal  to  set  a  wedding  do+e — and  her 
obsessive  concern  over  her  young  daughter  Robin. 


situation,  Dr.  Dick  Grant  forced  an  annulment  of  the 
marriage.  Kathy  and  her  child  returned  to  live  with 
Meta  and  Joe  Roberts — and  the  scarcely  hidden  re- 
sentment between  stepmother  and  stepdaughter  was 
revived  and  intensified. 

It  is  scarcely  surprising  that,  under  these  circum- 
stances, Kathy's  love  for  her  ovm  daughter  became 
obsessive.  Nor  is  it  surprising  that  Kathy — always 
attractive  to  men — should  have  been  sought  out  by 
many  admirers.  But  when  any  of  these  flirtations 
seemed  to  be  reaching  a  serious  level,  Kathy — still 
I'idden  with  guilt — broke  off  the  relationship. 

So  matters  stood,  until  tragedy  struck  again  with 
the  death  of  Kathy's  father,  Joe  Roberts,  when  Kathy's 
daughter  was  still  only  a  little  girl.  To  Kathy  and  her 
stepmother,  Joe's  death  removed  the  only  kindly  in- 
fluence which  had  permitted  them  to  live  under  the 
same  roof. 

Meta,  lost  without  her  husband's   love,   turned   to 


See  Next  Page  ^ 


55 


THE  GUIDING  LIGHT 

(Continued) 


3,  Bertha  and  Bill  Bauer  face  a  problem.  The  illness  of 
Grandma  Elsie's     husband     is  a  concern  to  all  of  them. 


the  support  and  sustaining  friendship  of  her  brother 
Bill  Bauer  and  his  wife,  Bertha. 

Kathy  took  young  Robin  and  fled  to  the  New  York 
City  home  of  Bob  Lang's  mother,  Robin's  true  grand- 
mother. It  seemed  her  only  refuge.  The  advice  and 
help  of  her  current  suitor,  Dan  Clark,  did  little  to 
make  her  happy.  She  was  still  lost  and  searching  for 
the  key  to  her  own  personality  problems. 

Meanwhile,  in  California,  Meta  Roberts  tried  her 
best  to  face  up  to  the  lonely  life  of  a  widow.  Her  love 
for  Joe  had  been  deep  and  genuine.  And  it  took  months 
for  her  normal  good  spirits  to  return.  Meta's  brother 
Bill  and  sister-in-law  Bertha  did  what  they  could.  And 
it  was  their  great  joy  when  Mark  Holden,  a  bachelor 
friend  of  Bill's,  began  to  show  a  growing  interest  in 
Meta.  All  of  them  began  to  hope  that  a  marriage  to 
Mark  might  result. 

And  so  it  might  have,  had  not  Kathy  made  a  flying 
visit  to  California.  Because  Kathy  met  Mark  Holden. 
Different  in  age    (Mark  is  a  number  of  years  older 


Pictured  here,  as  seen  on  TV,  are: 

Meta   Roberts Ellen   Demming 

Bertha  Bauer Charita  Bauer 

Bill  Bauer Lyle  Sudrow 

Papa  Bauer Theo  Getz 

Kathy  Lang Susan  Douglas 

Dr.  Dick  Grant James  Lipton 

Mark    Holden Whitfield    Connor 

Marie  Wallace Lynne  Rogers 

"Grandma    Elsie" I^thel    Reniey 

The  Guiding  Light,  CBS-TV,  M-F,  12 :45  P.M.  EST,  is  spon- 
sored by  The  Procter  &  Gamble  Co.  for  Ivory,  Duz  and  Cheer. 


4.   Kathy's  ex-husband   Dick  Grant  faces   loss   of  career 
as  a  surgeon.    Marie  Wallace  offers  understanding  help. 


than  Kathy),  the  two  fell  deeply  in  love.  For  the  first 
time,  Kathy  found  herself  capable  of  adult  emotion. 
And  for  the  first  time  she  also  found  herself  capable 
of  concern  for  others  than  herself. 

She  felt  distress  over  Meta's  disappointment,  yet 
realized  that  a  loveless  marriage  between  Meta  and 
Mark  Holden  was  impossible.  She  felt  concern  for 
Robin.  Would  a  marriage  to  Mark  throw  Robin  into  the 
sam.e  kind  of  unhappy  girlhood  as  Kathy  herself  had 
suffered  when  her  father  had  married  Meta?  She  felt 
deep  pity  for  Dr.  Dick  Grant,  her  ex -husband,  whom 
she  had  seen  again  during  her  visit.  Dick  had  suffered 
an  injury  to  his  hand  which  made  it  impossible  for 
him  to  continue  his  career  as  a  surgeon.  Although 
Kathy  was  impressed  by  Dick's  inner  strength,  his  un- 
happy plight  seemed  a  direct  charge  against  herself. 
Perhaps  if  she  had  not  been  so  childish  during  their 
marriage,  all  the  tragic  developments  in  Dick's  life 
would  never  have  occurred. 

Mark  Holden's  visit  to  Kathy  in  New  York,  at  the 
Christmas  holidays,  only  served  to  intensify  Kathy's 
troubles.  She  steadfastly  refuses  to  marry  until  she 
can  be  convinced  that  the  marriage  is  right  for  all 
of  them.  And  Mark  is  growing  increasingly  disturbed 
at  Kathy's  temporizing  about  the  wedding  date. 

In  California,  Bill  and  Bertha  Bauer  worry  over 
Meta — unreconciled  to  her  loss  of  Mark's  love.  And 
their  lives  are  further  complicated  by  the  serious  ill- 
ness of  Bertha's  stepfather,  Albert  Franklin. 

But  the  inner  serenity  and  strength  of  the  Bauers 
gives  them  hope  that  some  guiding  light  will  soon 
alleviate  their  own  problems  and  the  problems  of  the 
troubled  people  they  love  so  well. 


56 


5.  Kathy's  engagement  to  Mark  Holden  has  brought  sorrow  to  Meta  Roberts 
(Kathy's  stepmother).  For  Meta  had  hoped  to  marry  Mark  herself.  Meta 
turns   to    Bertha,    Bill    and    Papa    Bauer   for    needed    comfort    and    adv'ce. 


57 


om  /fi^ 


c 


58 


Spring  Byington   stars  as  Lily   Ruskin   in   December  Bride   CBS-TV,  Mon.,   9:30 
P.M.  EST,  sponsored  by  General  Foods  Corp.,  for  Instant  Maxwell  House  Coffee. 


December  Bride  helped 
teach  me  that  a  sympathetic 
ear  is  rarer  than  a 
golden  tongue — and  far 
more  valuable,  to  yourself 
as  well  as  to  others 

By  SPRING  BYINGTON 


TODAY,  I  love  to  listen.  But  it  wasn't 
always  thus!  Talking  is  my  busi- 
ness. Actresses  know  that  a 
cradle-to-grave  romance  with  words 
is  one  of  the  essentials  for  eai'ntng  a 
living  in  the  chatty  world  of  TV,  radio, 
theater,  movies.  It's  a  little  harder  for 
us  to  realize  that  words  operate  most 
effectively  on  a  two-way  street.  At 
least,  it  was  for  me.  I  had  some  pecul- 
iarly embarrassing  experiences  (of 
which  more  anon,  if  you'll  pardon  my 
Shakespearean)  before  I  learned  to 
listen.  And  some  very  rewarding  ones, 

Like  grandmother,  like  granddaughter: 
Chris  Baxley  stages  a  puppet  show  for 
me  and  her  mother,  my  daughter  Phyllis, 


Fan  mail  makes  "good  listening,"  too, 
even  when  people  tell  me  their  problems. 


'•-  <  ^ 

%.' 

y^'' 

i 

*, 

^ 

1^ 

^r 

^ 

'■^L^ 

1 

14^  V 

■*#> 

Hv 

after  I  found  out  that  other  people's 
words  could  be  important,  too.  How 
exciting  it  is,  to  share  their  lives  and 
thoughts!  How  good,  to  discover  you 
can  even  help  them,  just  by  listening. 
Oddly  enough,  I  learned  to  listen — 
at  least  chiefly — from  reading  letters 
written  to  me  by  fans  and  personal 
friends.  Yes,  you  can  listen  to  a  letter. 
Not  by  reading  it  in  the  usual  way, 
glancing  over  it,  gleaning  the  gist, 
then  going  on  to  something  else.  But 
reading  it,  as  I  learned  how,  once  I'd 
decided  it    {Continued   on  page   82) 

My  family  includes  Phyllis,  son-in-law 
Bill,  Christine  and  S'An  Baxley  (and  I 
hove  another  married  daughter,  Lois). 


Above,  when  I'm  Lily  Ruskin  in  December  Bride,  my  TV  family  includes  Frances 
Rafferty  and  Dean  Miller  (left)  as  my  daughter  Ruth  and  my  son-in-law  Matt — 
plus  Harry  Morgan  and  Verna  Felton  (right)  as  Pete  Porter  and  Hilda  Crocker. 


Fan  mail  makes  "good  listening,"  too, 
even  when  people  tell  me  their  problems. 


December  Bride  helped 
teach  me  that  a  sympathetic 
ear  is  rarer  than  a 
golden  tongue — and  far 
more  valuable,  to  yourself 
as  well  as  to  others 

By  SPRING  BYINGTON 


TODAY,  I  love  to  listen.  But  it  wasn't 
always  thus!  Talking  is  my  busi- 
ness. Actresses  know  that  a 
cradle-to-grave  romance  with  words 
is  one  of  the  essentials  for  earning  a 
Uving  in  the  chatty  world  of  TV,  radio, 
theater,  movies.  It's  a  little  harder  for 
us  to  realize  that  words  operate  most 
effectively  on  a  two-way  street.  At 
least,  it  was  for  me.  I  had  some  pecul- 
iarly embarrassing  experiences  (ol 
which  more  anon,  if  you'll  pardon  my 
Shakespearean)  before  I  learned  to 
listen.  And  some  very  rewarding  ones, 

Like  grandmother,  like  granddoughter; 
Chris  Baxley  stages  a  puppet  show  for 
me  and  her  mother,  my  daughter  Phyllis. 


after  I  found  out  that  other  people's 
words  could  be  important,  too.  How 
exciting  it  is,  to  share  their  lives  and 
thoughts!  How  good,  to  discover  you 
can  even  help  them,  just  by  Hstening. 
Oddly  enough,  I  learned  to  Usten— 
at  least  chiefly — from  reading  letters 
written  to  me  by  fans  and  personal 
friends.  Yes,  you  can  listen  to  a  letter. 
Not  by  reading  it  in  the  usual  way, 
glancing  over  it,  gleaning  the  gist, 
then  going  on  to  something  else.  But 
reading  it,  as  I  learned  how,  once  I'd 
decided  it    (Continued   on  page   82) 

My  family  includes  Phyllis,  son-in-law 
Bill,  Christine  and  S'An  Baxley  (and  I 
have  onother  married  daughter,  Lois). 


Spring  Byington  stars  as  I.ily   Ruskin   in  December  Bride   CBS-TV    Mon     9-30 
P.M.  EST,  sponsored  by  General  Foods  Corp.,  for  Instant  Maxwell  House  CoiTee. 


Above  when  I  m  Li ly  Ruskm  ,n  December  Bride,  my  TV  family  includes  Fronces 
Rafferty  and  Dean  Miller  (left)  os  my  daughter  Ruth  and  my  son-in-law  Matt- 
plus  Harry  Morgan  and  Verna  Felton  (right)  as  Pete  Porter  and  Hilda  Crocker 


Don's  Reluctant  Double  Life 


Three  fine  dramas  in  New  York,  three  fine  children  in  Vermont- 
all  this  and  Mary,  too!  Can't  you  guess  where  MacLaughlin's  heart  finds  its  home? 


60 


Cozy  inside  their  Vermont  honne,  Mory  and  Don, 
sons  Douglas  and  Britton,  gather  around  daughtei 
Janet  for  a  fanniiy  sing.  It's  colder  outside,  so 
Don  and  Mary  bundle  up  for  a  romp  with  "Buttons." 


By  FRANCES   KISH 

DOWN  IN  New  York  City,  Don  MacLaughlin 
has  a  tiny  apartment— and  considerable 
fame.  Fame,  because  he's  Chris  Hughes  on 
CBS-TV's  As  The  World  Turns,  Dr.  Jim  Brent 
on  CBS  Radio's  The  Road  Of  Life,  David 
Harding  on  Mutual's  Counterspy.  A  tiny 
apartment,  because  it's  just  a  place  to  hole  up 
at  night,  study  his  next  day's  script  and  get 
some  sleep.  For  New  York  isn't  "home."  Don's 
leading  a  double  life!  His  career  takes  him  to 
the  big  city,  but  his  heart  abides  in  a  small 
New  England  town.  And  there  couldn't  be  a 
greater  difierence  between  the  two. 

Up  in  Vermont,  where  Don  really  lives  with 
his  wife  and  family,  people  aren't  impressed 
by  stardom.  In  their  community  life,  an  actor 
is  rated  only  as  a  fellow  citizen.  And,  if  he 
rates,  he  can  share  their  close-knit  interests, 
his  family  can  lead  the  same  well-balanced  life, 


See  Next  Page- 


Small-town  bockground  is  just 
what  Don  MacLaughlin  wanted 
for  his  children.  How  he  enjoys 
those  weekends,  roanning  the  New 
England    countryside    with    Britt! 


his  children  can  grow  up  with  the  same  high,  practical 
standards.  For  this — reluctant  as  he  may  be  to  spend 
the  workdays  separated  from  Mary  and  their  three 
children — Don  MacLaughlin  is  more  than  willing  to 
divide  his  life  in  two. 

It  was  a  momentous  decision  to  make,  but  the  Mac- 
Laughlins  had  known  the  Vermont  town  for  five  years 
before  they  decided  to  settle  there  all  year  'round. 
Originally,  Don  and  Mary  discovered  the  place  when 
one  of  their  youngsters  was  ill  and  required  a  comfort- 
able summer  climate  for  convalescence.  Each  summer 
after  that  helped  strengthen  the  MacLaughlins'  feeling 
of  "belonging."  Last  year,  when  Don  and  Mary  sud- 
denly faced  the  truth  that  the  children  were  really 
growing  up,  that  the  two  older  ones,  Douglas  and  Janet, 


would  be  away  at  school,  and  their  year-'round  house 
in  Connecticut  was  too  big  for  only  themselves  and 
young  Britton,  they  decided  it  was  now  time  for  them 
to  become  true  Vermonters. 

Don  had  been  commuting  from  Connecticut  to  New 
York,  having  to  stay  overnight  in  the  city  more  and 
more  frequently  because  of  some  of  his  late  programs. 
The  trip  of  five  hours  by  train  to  Vermont  didn't  seem 
much  more  formidable  and,  as  always,  he  would  have 
weekends  at  home  with  the  family.  So  bag,  baggage, 
furniture — including  the  assorted  impedimenta  that 
every  family  worth  its  salt  collects — domestic  pets  and 
all,  they  moved  to  their  Vermont  acreage. 

"Ours  is  a  very  small,  close-knit  community,"  Don 
describes  his  town.    "We  are  all  (Continued  on  page  70) 


62 


Don's  Reluctant  Double  Life 

(Continued) 


Skiing  for  Don  and  Britt — and  Janet,  when  she's  honne 
From  private  school.  Below,  Doug — who  goes  to  Amherst — 
admires  the  baby  pigeons   Britt  is  helping   Don  to   raise. 


Husky  outdoor  chores  for  Doug  and  Don,  at  home.  All  too 
soon,  it's  time  for  woodsman-husbond-father  MacLaughlin 
to  head  back  to  Nbw  York  and  his  double  life  as  an  actor. 


Don  is  seen  as  Chris  Hughes  in  ^s  The  f  odd  Tarns   CBS-T\\  M-F,  1:30  P.M.  EST,  sponsored  by  The  Procter  &  Gamble  Co.  for  Ivory  Snow  and 
Oxydol.  He  s  heard  as  Dr.  Jim  Brent  on  The  Road  Of  Life,  CBS  Radio,  1 :45  P.M.  EST,  and  David  Harding  on  Counterspy,  Mutual,  Fri.,  8  P.M.  EST. 


63 


Don's  Reluctant  Double  Life 


(.Continued) 


his  children  can  grow  up  with  the  same  high,  practical 
standards.  For  this — reluctant  as  he  may  be  to  spend 
the  workdays  separated  from  Mary  and  their  three 
children — Don  MacLaughlin  is  more  than  willing  to 
divide  his  life  in  two. 

It  was  a  momentous  decision  to  make,  but  the  Mac- 
Laughlins  had  known  the  Vermont  town  for  five  years 
before  they  decided  to  settle  there  all  year  'round. 
Originally,  Don  and  Mary  discovered  the  place  when 
one  of  their  youngsters  was  iU  and  required  a  comfort- 
able summer  climate  for  convalescence.  Each  summer 
after  that  helped  strengthen  the  MacLaughlins'  feeling 
of  "belonging."  Last  year,  when  Don  and  Mary  sud- 
denly faced  the  truth  that  the  children  were  really 
growing  up,  that  the  two  older  ones,  Douglas  and  Janet 


Small-town  background  is  just 
what  Don  MacLaughlin  wonted 
for  his  children.  How  he  enjoys 
those  weekends,  roaming  the  New 
England    countryside   with    Britt! 


would  be  away  at  school,  and  their  year-'round  house 
in  Connecticut  was  too  big  for  only  themselves  and 
young  Britton,  they  decided  it  was  now  time  for  them 
to  become  true  Vermonters. 

Don  had  been  commuting  from  Connecticut  to  New 
York,  having  to  stay  overnight  in  the  city  more  and 
more  frequently  because  of  some  of  his  late  programs. 
The  trip  of  five  hours  by  train  to  Vermont  didn't  seem 
much  more  formidable  and,  as  always,  he  would  have 
weekends  at  home  with  the  family.  So  bag,  baggage, 
furniture— including  the  assorted  impedimenta  tha' 
every  family  worth  its  salt  collects— domestic  pets  and 
all,  they  moved  to  their  Vermont  acreage. 

Ours  is  a  very  small,  close-knit   community,"  0°" 
describes  his  town.    "We  are  all  (Continued  on  V^d^ 


The  IfnrlJ  Turn',  rBS-TV  MF.  1:30  P.M.  EST,  sponsored  by  The  Procter  &  Gamble  Co.  for  Ivory  Snow  and 
I  on  The  Road  Ol'Life,  CBS  Radio,  1 :45  P.M.  EST,  and  David  Harding  on  Counierspy,  Mu.ual,  Fri.,  8  P.M.  EST. 


BEAUTY 


Jan  Miner  gives  nature  just  a 

little,  artful  nudge — for 

lighter,  brighter  hair  beauty 


The  "ultra-conservative"  man  in  her 
life,  husband  Terry  O'Sullivan, 
is  proud  of  her  appearonce,  soys 
Jan  always  looks  "just  naturally  nice. 


By  MARY  SHERWOOD 


Wan  Miner  is  a  pretty  but  proper  Bostonian,  and  it  took  her 
**   a  long  time  to  decide  to  add  color  to  her  hair.    But, 
now  she's  done  it,  she  can't  imagine  why  she  didn't  try 
that  hint-of-a-tint  a  whole  lot  sooner.    Her  once  un- 
manageable, baby-fine  tresses  are  sleek  and  silky  and  beau- 
tifully behaved  and  just  the  subtlest  soupcon  of  a  shade 
lighter  and  brighter  than  nature  decreed.    "It  looks  better, 
more  becoming,  on  a  kinescope,"  she  sighs  contentedly, 
"and  even  the  ultra -conservative  man  in  my  life  approves!" 

Jan  may  be  more  familiar  to  you  as  the  serene  and 
sympathetic  Julie  Nixon  of  Hilltop  House  or  in  the  title 
role  of  The  Second  Mrs.  Burton,  but  there's  a  courtyard 
apartment  house  on  New  York  City's  East  Side  where  the 
portly  doorman  knows  her  proudly  as  Mrs.  Terry  O'Sullivan. 
And  five  flights  up  in  a  modish  modern  apartment  (ebony 
and  taupe  and  gold,  with  a  dash  of  pimiento)  lives  a  man 
named  Terry  who  is  also  proud  to  call  her  Mrs.  O'Sullivan! 
He's   proud,   too,   of   Jan's   appearance   because   she 
always  looks  "just  naturally  nice!" 

For  her  many  and  various  parts  on  the  stage,  radio 
and  TV,  Jan  has  worn  her  hair  in  every  conceivable  style 
and  shade  (she  has  a  collection  of  sixteen  switches  and 
chignons  to  commemorate  her  career  as  a  chameleon!).  But, 
in  her  private  life,  it's  Terry  who  calls  the  tune.  "I  please 
myself  by  pleasing  him,"  she  says,  "and  no  man  will  ever 
admit  that  he  likes  an  artificial  effect."  The  trick,  she 
feels,  is  to  avoid  drastic  changes:   Begin  with  a  mild- 
mannered  rinse  before  you  really  need  it,  progress  by  slow 
and  easy  stages  to  your  most  compatible  color  and  don't 
be  tenipted  to  go  beyond.  "By  all  means  have  your  hair 
tinted,"  she  advises,  "but  don't  have  it  overdone!"  Jan, 
herself,  features  a  muted  ash-blonde  which  is  so  close  to 
her  natural  coloring  that  it  needs  to  be  retouched  only 
once  in  six  weeks.    "My  hair  has  never  had  so  much  life," 
says  Jan,  "and  it  looks  as  natural  as  all  outdoors!" 


64 


Midas  of  Music  and  Mirth 


(Continued  from  page  52) 
performing  as  little  as  possible:  "TV  can 
be  the  goose  that  lays  the  golden  egg- 
but  you  must  be  careful  not  to  cook  the 
egg  too  often."  Borge's  definition  of  how 
much  gold  and  how  little  cooking  are  re- 
quired is  measured  by  his  CBS  contract. 
For  two  hour-long  shows  and  two  guest 
performances,  he  will  be  paid  a  quarter  of 
a  million  dollars,  the  highest  sum  per 
hour  ever  earned  by  an  entertainer. 

He's  a  super-salesman  who  can  wise- 
crack his  way  through  a  shrewd  bargain, 
but  ho  is  also  a  man  to  whom  anv  stubborn 
situation  presents  an  intriguing  challenge. 
This  even  includes  romance.  Take  the 
manner  in  which  he  met  his  charming 
wife,  Sanna.  It  was  in  Chicago,  when 
Victor  was  playing  a  night  club.  Sanna 
recalls,  "He  had  just  fired  his  manager 
when  he  encountered  friends  of  mine  .  .  ." 

Borge  had  problems,  and  the  friends 
were  certain  Sanna  was  just  the  girl  to 
cope  with  them.  She  could  handle  the 
detail  work  which  Victor  hated,  for  she 
had  majored  in  accounting  at  the  Uni- 
versity of  Indiana.  What's  more,  she  was 
probably  the  prettiest  fugitive  from  a  CPA 
charter  who  ever  turned  into  a  fashion 
model.  She  also  had  proved  her  business 
ability  by  acting  as  sales  representative 
for  a  group  of  fashion  artists. 

"What  a  pity,"  said  the  friends,  "that  all 
this  didn't  happen  sooner.  Now  Sanna  is 
doing  so  well  with  her  own  business  that 
she   wouldn't   think   of   giving   it  up." 

Sanna,  in  telling  the  story,  short-cuts 
it  with  a  knowing  smile:  "But  you  know 
Borge.  Before  very  long,  he  had  per- 
suaded me  to  sell  my  business  and  go  to 
work  for  him.  If  anything  is  difficult, 
that  turns  out  to  be  the  thing  he  is  sure 
he  must  have." 

Perhaps  one  of  the  most  diificult  things 
to  maintain,  in  the  face  of  today's  all- 
consuming  taxes  on  high-bracket  incomes, 
is  a  country  estate.  To  almost  anyone 
else,  that  lovely  place  in  Connecticut 
which  now  is  ViBo  Farm  would  have 
looked  like  a  450 -acre  white  elephant,  a 
place  so  expensive  to  maintain  that  no 
one  could  afford  to  live  there.  Borge  has 
made  it  into  a  magnificent  home  for  Sanna 
and  children — and  even  made  a  profit. 

A  place  of  historic  interest,  the  farm 
had  once  been  the  home  of  Ethan  Allen, 
the  Revolutionary  War  patriot  who,  with 
the  Green  Mountain  Boys,  captured  the 
British  stronghold,  Fort  Ticonderoga.  His 
cottage  is  now  the  Borge  guest  house. 
Wallace  Nutting,  the  minister  whose  fine 
photographs  of  the  place  are  credited  with 
having  aroused  this  century's  interest  in 
antiques,  had  owned  it,  too. 

The  farm's  last  owner  had  made  it  a 
hunting  preserve — a  luxury  retreat  where 
wealthy  sportsmen  came  to  hunt  pheas- 
ant. Borge  decided  to  raise  pheasants  in- 
stead. When  cautious  friends  questioned 
what  he  knew  about  such  an  undertaking, 
Borge  had  an  answer:  "I  told  them  I 
didn't  have  to  know  anything.  The  pheas- 
ants already  knew  all  about  it." 

An  important  asset  which  he  did  possess 
was  a  Continental  gentleman's  knowledge 
of  fine  food.  Bom  in  Copenhagen,  Janu- 
ary 3,  1909,  his  had  always  been  a  world 
of  elegance  and  fashion.  His  father  was 
a  violinist  with  the  Denmark  Royal  Sym- 
phony. His  mother  was  an  accomplished 
pianist,  and  Victor  was  a  child  prodigy. 
At  four,  he  could  read  both  words  and 
music,  and,  at  ten,  he  gave  his  first  con- 
cert. At  eleven,  the  Borgian  wit  burst 
forth  right  in  the  middle  of  a  concert  in 
which  he  was  the  soloist  with  the  State 
Symphony.      Borge's    account    of    it    has 


become  a  minor  classic:  "I  came  to  a 
long  trill  which  I  played  with  two  fingers, 
the  entire  string  section  supporting  me. 
The  sight  of  these  serious  old  musicians 
grinding  away  for  all  they  were  worth, 
while  I  twiddled  my  fingers,  was  too 
much  for  me.  I  looked  over  my  shoulder 
and  winked  at  the  audience." 

One  who  never  laughed  at  the  Borge 
jokes  was  Adolph  Hitler,  the  butt  of  many 
of  them.  In  1940,  when  the  Nazis  goose- 
stepped  into  Denmark,  Borge  was  high  on 
the  extermination  list.  With  his  first 
wife,  an  American  citizen,  he  caught  the 
last  boat  out  of  Finland.  Knowing  little 
English,  and  himself  unknown  in  America, 
he  went  through  a  most  unfunny  period, 
living  on  twenty-five  cents  a  day  before 
Bing  Crosby  invited  him  to  do  a  guest 
shot  and  discovered  the  Dane's  offbeat 
interpolations.  Crosby  threw  away  the 
script — and  let  Victor  go  solo. 

Borge's  gourmet  tastes  having  been 
thus  sharpened  by  hunger,  he  viewed  the 
potential  of  those  wooded  hills  on  the 
game  preserve  with  a  connoisseur's  de- 
light. He  announced  he  would  raise 
pheasant,  geese,  and  Rock  Cornish  hens — 
a  fancy  fowl  which  he  described  as  hav- 
ing "all  white  meat  and  a  chest  expansion 
which  would  do  credit  to  Marilyn 
Monroe." 

He  set  up  his  own  quick-freeze  pack- 
ing plant,  and  soon  had  so  many  orders 
that  he  enlisted  neighboring  farmers  in 
the  operation.  Borge  buys  the  birds  just 
after  they  are  hatched,  retains  some  of 
them  on  his  own  place  and  parcels  out 
the  remainder,  together  with  special  feed 
and  instructions.  He  sells  more  than  10,- 
000  a  week  and  employs  forty  people.  He 
is  just  completing  a  new  building  which 
will  more  than  double  the  plant  capacity. 

The  recipes  which  Victor  supplies  wifli 
his  poultry  products  give  directions  for 
such  mouth-watering  concoctions  as  "The 
Pheasant,  Braised  Marsala,"  and  "Guinea 
Hen  With  Cherries."  But,  for  his  prized 
Cornish  Rock,  he  adds  one  in  strictly 
Borgese:  "Put  the  hen  in  a  Dutch  oven," 
he  advises,  "and  do  him  in  brown  butter 
for  twelve  minutes.  If  you  have  a  piano 
in  the  kitchen,  play  'The  Minute  Waltz' 
twelve  times.  Then  put  in  a  little  water. 
Put  the  lid  on  and  play  half  'The  Dance 
of  the  Hours,'  dragging  it  slightly.  When 
you've  done  that,  your  goose  is  cooked — 
and  if  that  isn't  clear,  the  best  thing  to 
do  is  forget  the  whole  thing  and  go  to  your 
mother-in-law's  for  dinner." 

A  visit  to  ViBo  farm  is  an  experience  in 
hospitality.  It  is  a  breath-takingly  beauti- 
ful place,  high  in  the  Connecticut  hills, 
near  the  town  of  Southbury. 

In  the  house,  the  warmth  of  the  antique 
meets  the  comfort  of  the  modern.  Periods 
and  styles  have  been  combined  with  a 
master  hand  to  create  unity  and  beauty. 
That  hand,  one  soon  discovers,  was  Vic- 
tor's. "Like  most  old  houses,  this  one  just 
grew,"  he  explains.  "When  they  needed 
more  space,  they  built  on  an  extra  room. 
Then  they  pushed  another  house  up 
against  it  and  joined  it  on.  We  didn't 
have  to  do  much  for  the  older  house.  That 
was  built  in  the  1780's.  But  the  second 
house  was  a  mess." 

The  two  houses  became  three  houses 
after  Borge  paid  a  visit  to  North  Carolina. 
There  he  discovered  a  Southern  mansion 
which  was  being  wrecked.  Back  to  Con- 
necticut went  some  of  its  most  beautiful 
portions.  The  hand-carved  window  and 
door  casings  now  grace  the  Borge  din- 
ing room — a  formal  room  gleaming  with 
crystal,  silver  and  polished  wood.  "When 
there     weren't     enough     casings     to     go 


around,"  he  adds,  "I  had  them  copied— I 
knew  a  man  who  knew  a  man  who  could 
do  the  work." 

The  living  room,  in  a  perfection  of  de- 
tail, blends  antiques  with  modern  and 
they  marry  surprisingly  well.  Again, 
Borge  was  the  decorator,  and  the  fur- 
nishings came  from  all  over  the  world. 
"I'm  the  window  shopper,"  he  explains. 
"Whenever  I'm  in  a  city,  I  watch  for 
things  we  would  want.  If  I  haven't  time 
to  buy  it,  I  write.  I  remember  where 
everything  is." 

He  takes  a  special  delight  in  showing 
off  what  he  calls  "Mama's  room,"  a  dainty 
boudoir  with  linen-covered  walls,  pink 
brocade  bedspread,  canopied  bed  and  an- 
tique chaise  longue. 

Sanna  waited  until  Borge  was  out  of 
earshot  to  confide  the  reason  for  his 
pleasure  in  the  room:  "It's  my  surprise. 
Every  time  I  go  to  the  hospital  to  have 
another  baby,  I  find  it  completely  redeco- 
rated on  my  return.  He  has  been  shop- 
ping and  planning  all  the  time  we  waited 
for  the  child." 

There  are  two  babies  in  the  Borge 
household.  Victor  Bernhardt,  age  three,  a 
twinkling- eyed  lad  with  an  eager,  out- 
going disposition,  is  called  VeeBee  to 
avoid  the  "junior"  label.  Frederika  has 
not  yet  celebrated  her  first  birthday. 
Sanna's  daughter,  also  called  Sanna,  is 
eleven.  In  summers,  Victor's  twins,  Ron- 
ald and  Janet,  join  them. 

Only  infant  Ricky  was  left  at  home  last 
summer  when  the  family  went  to  Europe 
on  what  turned  out  to  be  more  of  a  tri- 
umphal tour  than  a  vacation.  In  Den- 
mark, it  was  Sir  Victor  Borge — for  the 
Danish  ambassador  had  conferred  the 
honor  in  Washington,  making  him  a 
Knight  of  the  Royal  Order  of  Daneborg, 
in  recognition  of  "his  many  contributions 
to  his  native  Denmark."  In  England, 
where  Borge  supplied  a  sample  of  his 
artistry  via  the  BBC,  one  staid  critic 
headlined  his  review,  "Pardon  me  while 
I  pick  myself  up  off  the  floor.  I'm  still 
laughing."  Another  enthused,  "For  forty- 
five  minutes,  Victor  Borge  held  all  Eng- 
land in  the  palm  of  his  hand." 

The  fact  that  the  same  sort  of  enthu- 
siasm is  found  across  the  United  States  is 
both  the  blessing  and  bane  of  the  Borges' 
present  life.  His  "Comedy  in  Music," 
which  broke  Broadway  records  by  run- 
ning for  849  performances  at  the  Golden 
Theater,  is  now  proving  that  there  are 
stiU  large,  avid  audiences  to  be  found  on 
the  road,  too.  From  Hartford,  where  he 
grossed  $30,000,  to  the  Texas  Cotton  Bowl 
— ^where,  in  October,  he  played  to  a  crowd 
of  70,000 — the  story  of  packed  houses  was 
the  same.  In  Worcester,  Massachusetts,  so 
many  people  were  placed  on  the  stage, 
Borge  himself  was  blocked  oif  from  it  at 
the  end  of  the  intermission.  He  finally 
shouldered  his  way  to  the  piano — then 
spent  fifteen  minutes  helping  a  dislocated 
lady  find  a  seat. 

To  Victor  and  Sanna  and  the  children, 
the  boundless  success  is  wonderful,  but 
it's  also  a  little  frustrating.  Sanna  says 
wistfully,  "He's  away  so  much  .  .  ."  and 
Victor  says,  in  the  same  tone,  "I  don't 
get  much  chance  to  enjoy  the  life  I  really 
work  for." 

Like  the  fabled  King  Midas,  Borge  has 
learned  that  having  everything  you  touch 
"turn    to    gold"    isn't    the    most    precious 
gift  in  life.     But,  unlike  King  Midas,  he's    j 
worked   hard   for   that   magic   touch — and    v 
must    know,    in    his    heart,    the    glow    of    r 
achievement  which  comes  to  every  great 
talent  that  brings  both  melody  and  laugh- 
ter to  the  world.  „_ 

65 


fifi 


lend 


hand 


In  the  cause  of  mental  health,  the  stars  follow 
Thalia — the  muse  of  com,edy  .  .  .  and  charity 


WHEN  the  whisper  of  scandal  had  reached  to  a  shriek  from  the 
expose  magazines,  Hollywood's  younger  set  decided  to  do 
something  to  offset  the  unfavorable  publicity.   They  banded 
together  as  the  Thalians,  an  organization  that  had  been  formed  back 
in  1935  and  named  after  the  Greek  muse  of  comedy.  But  today's 
generation  of  performers,  writers  and  publicists  knew  that 
Thalia  had  another  attribute — charity.  They  reorganized  the  group  to 
emphasize  this  aspect  of  their  namesake,  then  chose  the  cause 
of  mental  health  as  the  one  that  needed  their  help.  Actor  Hugh 
O'Brian  is  president,  singer  Margaret  Whiting  is  vice  president, 
and  the  membership  rolls  are  studded  with  such  names  as  Gary 
Crosby,  Debbie  Reynolds,  Barbara  Whiting,  Natalie  Wood  and  Tony 
Curtis.  Their  "advisors"  include  Jimmy  Durante,  Frank  Sinatra 
and  Danny  Thomas.  The  group  appears  on  telethons,  makes  speeches, 
gives  luncheons,  fashion  shows  and  parties  to  raise  funds.  Mostly, 
these  funds  go  to  the  Reis-Davis  Clinic,  a  Hollywood  institution 
for  research  and  child  guidance.  The  Thalians  wanted  particularly  to 
work  with  children.    "We  think  of  defective  mental  health  as 
cancer  of  the  personality,"  says  Margaret  Whiting.    "And,  like 
cancer,  it  has  to  be  found  in  its  early  stages  and  then  cut  out."    The 
Thalians  pitch  in  everywhere.    They  will  man  the  switchboard, 
drive  cars,  register  patients,  help  with  therapy — or  stay  up  three  days 
and  nights  to  buy  and  wrap  2500  Christmas  gifts  for  patients  at 
the  Camarillo  State  Hospital.   But  the  greatest  gift  that  can  be 
given  to  anyone,  child  or  adult,  is  a  healthy  mind.   You,  too,  can  aid 
in  this  cause  by  sending  contributions  to  Thalians,  Hollywood,  Calif. 


With  Dr.  Motto,  head  of  the  Rels-Davis 
Clinic,  Margaret  Whiting  and  Hugh 
O'Brian  (TV's  Wyatt  Earp]  meet  patients. 


As  o  Tholion,  Margaret  helps  out  by       She  learns  from   Dr.  Motto  how  "play"        At  the  switchboard— or  on  stage  to 
checking  appointments  at  the  clinic.       is  used   as  therapy  for  a   child's   mind.        raise  funds— Margaret  lends  a  hand. 


WHEN  youth  needs  someone  to  talk  to, 
Dr.   Helen  Parkhurst  listens.    World 
famous  as  an  educator  and  child 
psychologist,  she  is  an  old  hand  at  listen- 
ing.   She  was  six  when  she  overheard 
two  teachers  chatting  about  how  children 
felt.    "But  I  didn't  feel  that  way,"  she 
still  protests.    By  the  time  she  was 
fourteen,  she  was  a  teacher  herself,  in  a 
rural  school  in  her  native  Wisconsin. 
Here,  another  protest  was  born,  this  one 
against   "the   old,   uncreative   methods"   of 
teaching.    Miss  Parkhurst  founded  the 
Laboratory  Plan  for  elementary  education, 
later  known  as  the  Dalton  Plan.    Her 
book,  "Education  on  the  Dalton  Plan," 
was  one  of  a  small  number  of  books  the 
American  government  recently  translated 
to  help  fight  Communism  in  Germany. 
Founder  of  New  York's  Dalton  School,  she 
is  the  only  U.S.  educator  after  whom  has 
been  named  a  European  school,  the 
Helen  Parkhurst  Dalton  School  in 
Rotterdam,  Holland.  .  .  .  Primarily,  Miss 
Parkhurst's  life  work  is  to  speak  and 
listen  to  children.    Miss  Parkhurst  selects 
groups  of  children  who  don't  know  each 
other  and  gathers  them  around  her 
"ring,"  a  metal  circle  at  which  they  stand 
and  hear  for  the  first  time  what  the 
topic  for  discussion  will  be.    "I  am 
interested  in  'why,'  not  'what,' "  says  Miss 
Parkhurst.    "I  always  keep  myself  the 
learner.    I  never   comment,   never   pass 
judgment."    By  asking  questions  that  will 
make  the  children  see  by  themselves  the 
advantages  and   disadvantages,  the  rights 
and  wrongs,  of  a  particular  action  or 
attitude,  she  brings  the  children  to  a  point 
where  they  can  judge  themselves.  "That's 
the  point,"  she  says,  "at  which  the  child 
meets  God."  .  .  .  Illuminating,  warm,  and 
often  funny,  these  conversations  can  be 
heard   on   the   Westinghouse   Broadcasting 
Company  radio  series.  Growing  Pains. 
The  series  is  heard  on  the  WBC  stations 
(WBZ-WBZA  in  Boston-Springfield, 
KDKA  in  Pittsburgh,  KYW  in  Cleveland, 
WOWO  in  Fort  Wayne  and  KEX  in 
Portland,  Oregon)  and  is  available  to  non- 
commercial stations  (WNYC  in  New  York, 
WBAA  in  Lafayette,  WOSU  in  Columbus, 
WPWT-FM  in  Philadelphia,  and  others). 
With  teenagers  in  different  cities,  Miss 
Parkhurst  discusses  juvenile  delinquency, 
sex,  prejudice,  going  steady,  or  rock  'n' 
roll.  .  .  .  Miss  Parkhurst  was  the  first  to 
take  a  group  of  slum  children  and  follow 
them  through  to  adulthood.    "The  most 
extraordinarily  beautiful  things  come  from 
children  in  the  slums,"  she  says,  "as  if 
they  dreamed  of  the  beauty  they  wanted." 
Before  moving  this  winter  to  a  new  studio 
and  home  in  New  Preston,  Connecticut, 
Miss  Parkhurst  lived  and  worked  in  the 
exclusive  neighborhood  of  New  York's 
Park  Avenue.   Once,  when  neighbors 
objected  to  the  rough-looking,  ragged  boys 
who  would  come  to  visit  her  there,  she 
avoided  eviction  by  disguising  them  as 
delivery  boys  from  the  local  groceries.  .  .  . 
"Teenagers,"  says  Miss  Parkhurst,  "need 
affection  and  understanding,  and  just 
enough  support  to  make  them  feel  warm 
and  comfortable.  The  'growing  pains'  come 
from  a  lack  of  understanding." 


Dr.  Helen  Parkhurst  shows  the  way  to 
a  youth's  understanding  of  himself — 
and  a  parent's  understanding  of  youth 


Around  the  "ring,"  youth  speaks  frankly  as  Helen  Parkhurst  offers 
"understanding  that  will  accept  whatever  they  say  without  admonish- 
ing them."  Below,  she  listens  to  the  results  with  assistant  Dorothy  Luke. 


67 


Mr.  and  Miss  Univac 


(Continued  from  page  39) 
"made  for  each  other." 

But  were  they?  What  would  John  and 
Barbara  themselves  have  to  say  about  it? 
The  coded  questionnaires  had  told  Univac 
that  the  youthful  advertising  executive 
and  the  alert  young  secretary  had  more 
tastes  in  common  than  they  had  grounds 
for  disagreement.  But  how  would  they 
react  to  each  other,  when  they  met  for 
the  very  first  time?  Linkletter  held  his 
breath.  If  the  introduction  didn't  "take," 
if  it  didn't  lead  toward  romance  and  mar- 
riage, embarrassed  Univac  might  blow  a 
fuse. 

The  idea  of  using  Univac  as  a  mechanical 
Cupid  came  to  Linkletter  and  his  partner- 
producer  John  Guedel  as  they  sat  in  Holly- 
wood's Brown  Derby,  sharing  a  Cobb 
salad  and  discussing  the  foibles  of  human 
nature.  At  that  same  table,  some  fifteen 
years  before,  producer  Guedel  had  made 


the  sage  remark,  "People  are  funny,"  thus 
giving  birth  to  the  title  of  the  TV -radio 
show  which  has  consistently  proved  its 
name. 

But  the  show  has  proved  more  than  that. 
And,  once  again  inspired  by  Bob  Cobb's 
famous  food,  Linkletter  and  Guedel  de- 
cided to  bring  an  added  quality  to  People 
Are  Funny.  Conducting  an  intensive  na- 
tional survey  over  several  months  in  search 
of  appropriate  ideas.  Art  and  John  had 
found  that,  in  addition  to  being  funny,  peo- 
ple are  lonely. 

Here  was  the  nucleus  of  an  idea.  Perhaps 
People  Are  Funny  could  serve  some  other 
worthwhile  purpose  besides  making  peo- 
ple laugh.  Could  it  in  some  way  assuage 
a  portion  of  this  loneliness?  Linkletter 
and  Guedel  thought  so.  Working  in  their 
television  "garden,"  these  two  electronic 
Luther  Burbanks  decided  to  cross  think- 
ing-machine Univac  with  a  pair  of  lonely 


68 


Univac  sorted  and  matched  People  Are  Funny  questionnaires  and  interview 
data  at  the  rate  of  3,000  subjects  a  minute!  You  can't  get  such  speedy  or 
accurate  results  with  mere  pen  or  pencil.  But  you  can  hove  fun,  filling  in 
the  form  below,  then  have  your  favorite  "date"  (or  mate)  answer  the 
questions,  too — just  to  see  for  yourselves  how  many  interests  you  share. 


PEOPLE  ARE  FUNNY  QUESTIONNAIRE 

Insfructions: 

Please  answer  all  individual  questions  by  filling  in  the  appropriate  boxes: 

Example:  weight    [I]    [2]    [5]   to  nearest  5  pounds 

Example:  height   [6]    [0]    [I]  to  nearest  inch 

Example:  do  you  want  to  get  married?    yes   [x]     no   [    ] 

1.  Sex:  Male  □     Female  □ 

2.  Race:  White  Q     Negro  Q     Indian  Q     Asiatic  Q 

3.  Age:  D  D 

4.  Hair:  Blond  D     Brunette  D     Redhead  D     Grey  D     Bald  D 

5.  Weight:   D   D   D  to   nearest  5   pounds 

6.  Height:   D   D   D  to  nearest  inch 

7.  Do  you  want  to  get  married?    yes  □     no  □ 

8.  Are  you  going  steady?    yes  □     no  □ 

9.  Have  you  been  married  before?    No  Q     Div.  □     Wid.  G 

10.  If  so:   (children)      none  □      one  □      more  Q 

11.  Income:   (do  you  make)   under  100  □     100-200  □    over  200/wlc.  H 

12.  Sports:    (do  you  like  to  watch)    baseball  □    boxing   □    horse   racing   □ 

(do  you  like  to  participate  in)  tennis  □    golf  □    swimming  □ 

13.  Religion:  Protestant  □     Catholic  □     Jewish  □     Other  □ 

14.  Children:    For  Ideal  size  family — none  □     one  □     more  □ 

15.  Home  preference:  own  home  □     rent  apt.  □ 

16.  Vacation  preference:    Mountains  D     Seashore  D     Desert  □     Foreign  Travel  □ 

17.  Occupation:  in  business  Q    '"  profession  Q    student  Q    employer  Q    employee  Q 

18.  Marriage  ceremony:    religious   □      civil   □ 

19.  Politics:    Rep.  □     Demo.  \J     Ind.  D 

20.  After  marriage   preference:    double   bed   □     twin   beds  □ 

21.  Education:    Grammar  School   □      High  School  □     College   □ 

22.  Music:    Classical   □      Popular   □ 

23.  Are  you  an  only  child:    yes  □     no  □ 

24.  Do  you  think  o  wife  should  work  after  marriage:    yes  D     no  D 

25.  Do  you  object  to  smoking:    yes  □     no  □ 

26.  Do  you  object  to  drinking:    yes  □     no  [^ 

27.  Do  you  like  pets  in  the  house:    yes  □     no  □ 

28.  Do  you  enjoy  dancing:    yes  □     no  [^ 

(SAMPLE— DO   NOT  SEND   IN) 


hearts.  Whether  the  affairs  of  the  heart 
could  be  reduced  to  a  series  of  electronic 
pulses  remained  to  be  seen. 

Cupid,  in  the  guise  of  Univac,  first  ap- 
peared in  February,  1956,  in  a  series  of 
Southern  California  newspaper  ads.  John 
Caran  and  Barbara  Smith  were  only  two 
among  the  thousands  of  respondents.  The 
ad  read  in  part:  "If  you  are  21,  eligible  to 
be  married,  and  would  like  the  chance  to 
meet  your  mate  on  People  Are  Funny,  drop 
us  a  postcard  telling  us  about  yourself." 
Barbara,  a  pert,  comely  secretary  in 
Schenley's  Southern  California  office  was 
intrigued  by  the  wording.  "I  don't  remem- 
ber my  entire  letter,"  she  says,  "but  I  do 
remember  a  questionnaire  to  be  filled  out 
came  in  the  return  mail." 

Meanwhile,  John  Caran,  young  adver- 
tising executive  with  National  Silver 
Company's  office  in  Los  Angeles,  had  also 
written  in  answer.  "I'm  generally  not  in- 
clined to  answer  newspaper  ads,"  says 
John.  "But,  when  I  saw  it  was  Art  Link- 
letter's  People  Are  Funny,  I  knew  it  was 
legitimate.  For  days  I  carried  the  clip- 
ping around  in  my  pocket.  One  evening 
something  seemed  to  tell  me  to  sit  down 
and  write  a  letter  about  myself.  I  did — 
feeling  all  the  time  that  nothing  would 
come  of  it. 

"A  few  days  later,  I  was  surprised  to 
receive  a  call  from  program  writer  Lou 
Schor  and  Jim  Henderson  asking  me  to 
come  in  for  an  interview.  I  filled  out  the 
questionnaire,  listing  my  interests  and 
hobbies,  and  at  the  same  time,  answering 
a  number  of  questions  related  to  prefer- 
ences in  marriage.  We  discussed,  in  short, 
what  I  thought  my  ideal  girl  would  be  like. 
Working  in  the  advertising  field  and  know- 
ing that  the  odds  were  about  10,000  to  one 
against  my  final  selection,  even  after  the 
interview,  I  still  had  the  feeling  that 
chances  were  pretty  slim  I'd  be  chosen." 
Months  passed,  during  which  time  Bar- 
bara made  plans  to  spend  her  summer 
vacation  in  Las  Vegas  with  her  sister,  and 
John  flew  to  Detroit  to  spend  his  two- 
week  vacation  with  his  parents.  Two 
thousand  miles  apart  by  that  time,  neither 
John  nor  Barbara  knew  that  fate  had 
fingered  their  meeting  to  take  place  within 
the  next  few  days. 

On  Monday  morning  of  that  fateful 
week,  John's  returning  plane  was  late 
landing  in  Los  Angeles.  Racing  for  home, 
he  had  just  enough  time  to  change  and 
shower  before  driving  to  work.  The  phone 
rang  as  he  was  going  out  the  door.  Not 
wanting  to  be  late  for  work,  he  almost 
didn't  answer  it.  The  call?  "It  was  Lou 
Schor  informing  me  I'd  been  selected  to 
be  on  the  show.  The  odds  were  so  long,  ■ 
even  the  final  phone  call  didn't  make  it 
seem  real." 

Barbara  could  hardly  believe  it,  either, 
when  production  assistant  Genie  Allen 
called  and  asked  if  she  could  go  on  the 
program  that  week.  The  sudden  phone 
call  from  People  Are  Funny  put  her  in  a 
quandary.  "Oh,  no,  I  can't,"  she  said.  "I'm 
going  to  Las  Vegas  with  my  sister.  She's 
coming  all  the  way  from  Chicago!" 

"Don't  you  want  to  go  on  the  program?" 
Fate  put  the  decision  squarely  up  to 
Barbara.  "Well,  yes  .  .  ."  she  replied,  and 
next  day  cancelled  her  Las  Vegas  reserva- 
tions. Little  did  she  know  that  the  change 
in  her  vacation  plans  would  later  change 
the  overall  plan  of  her  life. 

Barbara  and  John  did  not  meet  untU 
that  very  moment  when  People  Are 
Funny's  national  television  audience  saw 
Art  Linkletter  introduce  them.  In  fact, 
the  program  staff's  biggest  job  that  eve- 
ning was  making  surs  that  •  John's  and 
Barbara's  paths  didn't  cross  until  they  met 


for  the  first  time,  on  camera. 

John  was  sitting  calmly  in  his  chair  at 
stageside.  "The  staff  took  great  precau- 
tions to  make  sure  we  wouldn't  meet  be- 
forehand," he  says  smiling.  "I  think  asso- 
ciate producer  Irv  Atkins'  principal  job 
was  to  watch  me.  Once,  he  even  asked 
me  to  step  outside  into  the  alley  and  wait 
until  I  was  called.  I  later  learned  from 
Barbara  that  this  was  the  moment  they 
took  her  to  make-up.  She  had  to  go  right 
past  my  chair  to  get  to  the  stairs.  At  that 
time,  I  wondered  why  they  wanted  me 
standing  in  the  dark  outside  in  the  alley!" 

Once  again  inside  the  theater,  John 
finally  heard  Art  introducing  Barbara  to 
the  audience.  "I  tried  to  peek  around 
the  wings  and  take  a  look,  but  Mr.  Atkins 
wouldn't  let  me.  He  said,  'Youll  be  on 
soon  enough.'  When  Art  finished  with 
Barbara's  introduction,  Irv  said,  'Okay, 
now!'  And  the  curtains  parted.  At  this 
moment,  I  saw  Barbara  for  the  first  time. 
My  initial  reaction?  I  looked  at  her, 
saying,  'Gee,  she's  beautiful.' " 

Barbara  herself  recalls,  "I  haven't  the 
vaguest  idea  of  how  I  looked  or  how  I  felt. 
When  you're  under  tension  and  pressure, 
you're  not  yourself.  The  first  time  I  saw 
John,  I  was  numb." 

After  introducing  John,  Art  Linkletter 
explained  how  Univac  had  picked  the 
young  couple  as  being  most  compatible  to 
each  other  according  to  their  likes  and 
dislikes  on  a  variety  of  subjects.  Whether 
it  "took"  or  not  was  up  to  John  and 
Barbara.  With  introductions  completed, 
Art  turned  to  the  show's  popular  anagram 
game,  in  which,  working  together,  Barbara 
and  John  could  win  as  much  as  $1,000 
on  the  first  show. 

But,  halfway  through,  Art  interrupted 
to  say,  "If  you'd  like,  you  may  stop  now 
and  come  back  next  week  to  try  for  $3,000." 
He  also  suggested  it  might  be  nice  if  John 
and  Barbara  had  a  better  chance  to  be- 
come acquainted,  offering  to  pay  their 
way  to  dinner  any  place  in  town  every 
night  until  the  next  show.  Barbara  and 
John  accepted  the  invitation,  decided  to 
return  and  try  for  $3,000. 

Immediately  after  the  show,  John  and 
Barbara  went  into  the  front  office  to  dis- 
cuss their  meeting.  There  they  decided  to 
call  their  parents  in  the  East.  Barbara's 
mother  in  Chicago,  informed  of  the  news, 
replied,  "I'm  very  happy  for  you  both.  I 
certainly  hope  it  works  out  all  right." 

John's  mother  in  Detroit  said,  when 
awakened  from  a  deep  sleep,  "I  can't  un- 
derstand what  you're  saying.  What  do 
you  mean  you've  met  a  girl  on  television?" 
After  John  explained,  she  asked,  "What  is 
Barbara  like?"  John  finished  the  conver- 
sation by  saying,  "Well,  I  just  met  her, 
Mom,  but  she  is  very  wonderful." 

Every  night  for  the  next  week,  John 
and  Barbara  dined  at  a  new  place.  "Fri- 
day we  went  to  Mocambo,"  he  said,  "Sat- 
urday, the  Cocoanut  Grove.  And  every 
other  night,  some  place  new  and  excit- 
ing. Each  night,  as  Barbara  and  I  sat 
ringside  eating  the  terrific  food,  dancing 
and  enjoying  the  music,  we  kept  repeating 
to  each  other,  'How  could  this  happen  to 
us?'" 

On  the  next  week's  show.  Art  asked 
them  how  things  were  going.  John 
laughingly  remarked,  "I've  been  driving 
from  my  home  in  Anaheim  every  night  to 
pick  up  Barbara  in  Los  Angeles  .  .  . 
thirty-five  miles — quite  a  distance,  but 
well  worth  it."     The  audience  roared. 

When  Art  asked  Barbara  how  she  felt, 
she  replied,  "I'm  exhausted."  The  audience 
roared  again.  "But  it's  so  exciting,"  she 
continued,  "I  feel  like  Cinderella  waiting 
for  the  clock  to  strike  twelve." 

After  a  second  interview  with  Art,  Bar- 
bara and  John  turned  to  the  anagram  game, 
now  worth  $3,000.    Again  they  were  able 


to  play  half-way  through,  at  which  time 
Art  interrupted  asking  if  they  wanted  to 
settle  for  $3,000  or  come  back  the  fol- 
lowing week  and  try  for  $5,000.  Barbara 
and  John,  feeling  more  at  home  and  work- 
ing even  more  closely  together,  decided  to 
return.  And  what  about  romance?  It 
seems  the  electric  touch  of  Univac  had 
sparked  more  than  just  a  passing  interest 
— for,  by  the  end  of  the  second  show,  Bar- 
bara and  John  were  holding  hands. 

IVleanwhile,  back  in  their  respective 
offices,  both  Barbara  and  John  were  be- 
coming celebrities.  John  reports,  "Mr. 
Farr,  the  vice-president  of  Schenley's, 
asked  us  to  have  lunch  with  him.  And 
Mr.  Ross,  vice-president  of  my  company. 
National  Silver,  entertained  us  for  dinner 
one  evening."  As  Barbara  says,  "This  was 
as  exciting  for  me  as  meeting  the  Queen  of 
England. 

"Even  people  on  the  streets  recognized 
us,"  she  recalls.  "Strangers  gave  us  a 
second  look,  turning  around  to  say,  'We 
saw  you  on  TV  and  wish  you  lots  of  luck.' 
When  we  were  out  together,  we  were  dead 
giveaways.  People  everywhere  recognized 
us — John  especially,  because  he  has  such 
a  distinctive  face." 

In  the  time  between  the  second  and  third 
show,  John  and  Barbara  were  getting  to 
know  each  other  better.  They  were  to- 
gether for  dinner  almost  every  night,  or 
shared  their  evening  with  either  John's  or 
Barbara's  friends.  One  weekend,  John 
gave  a  barbecue  at  his  Anaheim  home  for 
a  number  of  guests,  including  Barbara's 
sister.  "My  house  had  always  been  a 
dream  until  recently,"  he  says.  "I  saved 
for  it  all  my  life.  It  was  important  what 
Barbara  thought  of  it.  What  did  Barbara 
think?  Well,  when  she  first  saw  it,  the 
day  of  the  barbecue,  she  said,  'I  like  it  very 
much.  And,  if  I'd  done  it  myself,  I 
wouldn't  change  a  thing.'  " 

On  the  third  show,  when  Linkletter 
asked  how  things  were  progressing,  John 
answered  with  amazement:  "That  Univac 
is  astounding.  The  questionnaire  covered 
a  lot  of  surface  things.  But,  as  we  got  to 
know  each  other,  we  found  we  had  a  lot 
of  little  things  in  common,  too.  For  ex- 
ample, the  first  time  we  went  out  to 
dinner,  after  looking  at  the  menu,  I  knew 
in  my  own  mind  what  I  wanted.  But 
Barbara,  of  course,  ordered  first.  She  asked 
for  the  same  things  I  intended  asking  for, 
right  down  to  the  dressing  on  the  salad!" 

Actually,  the  questionnaires  had  shown 
that  John  and  Barbara  had  some  differ- 
ences in  tastes,  as  well  as  similarities. 
Both  had  answered  that  they  wanted  to 
get  married.  But  John  indicated  he  was 
"going  steady,"  while  Barbara  said  "no" 
to  the  same  question.  Both  prefer  watch- 
ing baseball  or  playing  tennis.  But  Bar- 
bara also  enjoys  swimming  and  golf,  and 
John  likes  to  watch  boxing  matches.  Both 
prefer  a  home  of  their  own.  But  John 
voted  for  twin  beds,  Barbara  for  a  double. 

Under  "education,"  Barbara  checked 
off  high  school,  John  checked  both  high 
school  and  college.  Neither  of  them  gave 
their  religion,  though  Barbara  said  she'd 
like  a  religious  ceremony,  while  John  in- 
dicated no  choice.  Neither  had  objections 
to  smoking  or  drinking.  Both  have  a  fond- 
ness for  foreign  travel,  dancing,  popular 
music,  and  pets.  And  they  belong  to  the 
same  political  party. 

More  similar  than  dissimilar.  And,  when 
they  again  were  successful  half-way 
through  the  anagram  game  on  People  Are 
Funny,  they  agreed  to  return  next  week 
to  try  for  $10,000.  Meanwhile,  the  magic 
of  Univac  was  taking  effect — for,  after  the 
third  week,  they  found  they  were  really 
caring  for  each  other.  John  had  already 
learned  that  Barbara  liked  red  roses,  and 
red  and  white  carnations,  too — but  red 
roses  best.     The  night  before  the  fourth 


show,  John  left  his  office  and,  without 
Barbara's  knowing  anything  about  it, 
walked  into  Kay's  jewelry  store  and  se- 
lected an  engagement  ring. 

"I  didn't  know  if  she  would  accept  it  or 
not,"  he  admits.  "I  only  knew  I  wanted 
to  do  it.  Then  I  called  Barbara,  asking 
if  she'd  like  to  go  out  for  dinner.  A  new 
restaurant  had  opened  and  we  had  talked 
about  going  there.  I  asked  if  that  would 
be  okay.    She  said  fine." 

When  John  called  for  Barbara,  he 
handed  her  two  dozen  red  roses.  The  ring, 
in  a  beautifully -wrapped  extra-large  box, 
rested  in  the  back  seat  of  the  car.  On 
leaving  the  car  in  the  parking  lot,  John 
brought  the  box  out,  saying,  "By  the  way, 
I  was  doing  a  little  shopping  today  and  I 
picked  up  something  for  you." 

"Oh,  let  me  open  it,"  Barbara  cried. 

"Let's  wait  until  we  go  inside,"  said  John. 

After  ordering  dinner,  Barbara's  curios- 
ity couldn't  be  contained.  "Well,  what  is 
it?    Won't  you  let  me  open  it?"  she  asked. 

Teasing,  John  said,  "Let's  finish  dinner 
first."  He  recalls  now,  "Barbara  rushed 
through  hers." 

"Then  I  said,"  continues  John,  "  'I  guess 
we  can  have  it  for  dessert.'  That  sort  of 
threw  Barbara  off  the  track,  because  she 
knew  I  wouldn't  be  bringing  cookies  into 
the  restaurant,  yet  she  wondered  if  it  were 
something  to  eat.  Finally  finished  with 
dinner,  she  asked  me,  'Now?'  And  I  said, 
'Let's  go  over  to  the  lounge  and  have  our 
coffee.'  And  that's  where  she  finally 
opened  the  package.  I  took  the  ring  out, 
put  it  on  her  finger,  and  that  was  it.  She 
was  speechless." 

John  and  Barbara  were  engaged  on  a 
Monday.  The  fourth  show  was  filmed  the 
next  day,  Tuesday.  When  Art  asked 
what  had  happened  in  the  interim,  John 
held  up  Barbara's  hand,  proudly  showing 
the  ring  and  saying  shyly,  "We're  en- 
gaged." Again  they  proceeded  to  play  the 
amagram  game,  trying  for  $10,000.  When 
they  reached  the  half-way  mark,  they 
agreed  to  come  back  a  fifth  and  final  week 
for  a  try  at  $20,000.  This  would  be  a  mar- 
velous prize  for  young  newlyweds. 

"Naturally,"  says  John,  "we  discussed 
what  we  might  do  if  we  won  all  that 
money.  At  first,  we  were  afraid  even  to 
think  about  it.  We  could  use  it  for  so 
many  worthwhile  purposes.  Even  though 
I  have  this  home  and  all,  it  is  not  com- 
pletely furnished.  And  we  could  use  a 
vacuum  cleaner,  my  car's  about  to  give 
up,  both  of  us  have  clothes  to  buy,  and 
Barbara  has  to  pay  off  her  TV  set.  Bills — 
it  seems  we  all  have  them.  So  $20,000  cer- 
tainly would  give  us  a  fabulous  start." 

It  is,  of  course,  anti-climatic  now,  for 
John  and  Barbara  did  not  win  the  $20,000 
on  the  fifth  show.  Instead,  they  came  up 
with  $2,000  and  the  promise  of  a  paid 
honeymoon  in  Europe  when,  as  and  if  they 
get  married.  "Naturally,  we  were  disap- 
pointed we  didn't  win  the  full  amount," 
John  says.  "It's  not  the  easiest  thing  in 
the  world  to  be  looking  forward  to  so 
much  money  and  then  miss  it. 

"But  we  started  with  nothing,"  he  con- 
tinued, "and  Barbara  and  I  were  intro- 
duced by  Univac.  That's  the  important 
thing.  Just  being  together  will  always 
be  enough." 

Univac  has  introduced  other  couples  on 
People  Are  Funny.  But,  so  far,  John  and 
Barbara  are  the  only  pair  for  whom  Univac 
truly   proved   to   be   an   electronic    Cupid. 
But  that  fact  in  itself  has  been  satisfying 
reward    for    Art    Linkletter's    and    John 
Guedel's  fond  hope  for  bringing  both  en- 
tertainment and  good  from  Univac.  People    ^ 
can  be  lonely,  as  well  as  furmy — and  John    " 
and  Barbara  are  two  who  are  most  defi-    " 
nitely  not  lonely  now. 

"Someday,"    says    John,    with    a    smile, 

"I'm  going  to  have  to  meet  Mr.  Univac."  „_ 

by 


Don's  Reluctant  Double  Life 


(Continued  from  page  62) 
mutually  dependent.  This  makes  for  a 
neighborly  feeling,  in  the  best  sense  of 
that  word.  Our  neighbors  are  much  like 
the  people  Mary  and  I  grew  up  with,  I 
in  my  home  town  of  Webster,  Iowa,  and 
Mary  in  her  home  in  London,  Ohio.  These 
people  all  have  a  'live  and  let  live'  at- 
titude which  we  are  familiar  with,  and 
which  we  like." 

Theirs  is  a  village  home,  rather  than  a 
farm.  A  green-shuttered  white  house  which 
has  stood  up  magnificiently  to  the  ele- 
ments for  some  eighty  years.  Its  eight 
rooms  seem  more  compact  and  cozy  than 
the  usual  house  of  this  size,  but  there  is 
room  for  all  their  treasured  antiques, 
handed  down  by  both  families.  An  at- 
tached shed  leading  to  the  big  barn  opens 
upon  a  good-size  garden  which  is  pro- 
tected by  a  deer  fence. 

The  house  has  fulfilled  all  their  ex- 
pectations, and  their  fondness  for  it  has 
grown.  They  kept  the  old  iron  wood- 
burning  stove.  Don  splits  wood  in  slabs 
to  feed  it,  along  with  dozens  of  other 
home  chores.  Mary's  time  is  spent  in 
taking  care  of  her  home,  her  two  men, 
Don  and  Britt — and  the  older  children, 
when  they  are  home  for  holidays  and 
vacations — in  tending  the  garden  during 
the  week,  while  Don  is  away,  and  in  run- 
ning her  little  gift  and  antique  shop  down 
in  the  village.  In  addition,  she  is  a 
member  of  the  Ladies'  Aid,  and  she  edits 
the  church  community  paper,  a  job  for 
which  she  was  iitted  by  a  professional 
career  as  a  journalist  before  she  turned 
housewife. 

As  everyone  knows,  who  watches  As 
The  World  Turns,  Don  is  a  six-footer, 
blond,  rugged — a  man  who  seems  restless 
even  when  seated  quietly,  as  if  driven 
by  a  constant  urge  to  get  things  done,  and 
done  well.  Mary,  a  little  over  five-foot- 
two,  is  barely  shoulder-high  to  Don,  has 
pretty  brown  hair  and  green-gray  eyes, 
shares  much  of  his  intensity  and  vitality. 
In  manners,  she  is  so  direct  and  straight- 
forward that,  at  first,  you  don't  realize 
there  is  a  little  shyness  with  strangers — 
and,  by  the  time  you  do  realize,  she  has 
won  you  over  with  her  quick  understand- 
ing and  interest.  Three  years  ago,  she  took 
over  her  small  shop  from  a  friend  and  has 
spent  the  summers  working  in  it  and 
improving  it,  slanting  it  more  and  more 
toward  antiques  rather  than  quite  so 
much  toward  gifts.  It's  an  attractive  place, 
once  the  local  blacksmith  shop,  with  the 
old  anvil   still   standing   as   a   landmark. 

iJritton,  who  is  12,  goes  to  the  local 
grade  school,  is  more  interested  at  the 
moment  in  animals  than  in  acting — al- 
though, according  to  his  dad,  he  is  "the 
best  line-reader,  and  cues  me  better  than 
anyone  else  in  the  family."  Britt  starts 
to  live  the  part  the  minute  Don  hands  him 
the  script  he  is  studying,  and  both  his 
parents  suspect  that,  if  any  child  of  theirs 
turns  out  to  be  a  chip  off  the  dramatic 
block,  it  might  well  be  this  youngest  one. 
He  talks  about  wanting  a  goat  next 
summer.  "Why  a  goat  I  can't  imagine,"  his 
mother  laments,  "but  we'll  probably  end 
up  having  one!"  Meanwhile  with  his  fa- 
ther, he  has  been  expanding  the  coop  of 
what  started  out  to  be  a  pair  of  homing 
pigeons  which  have  produced  an  ever- 
increasing  family,  creating  a  real  emer- 
gency housing  problem. 

The  wire-haired  terrier.  Buttons,  is 
now  nine  years  old,  and  a  bit  world-weary 
at  this  point,  content  to  stay  near  the  fire 
and  to  let  the  Siamese  cats,  Cyrano  and 
Roxanne,  go  chasing  madly  about  the 
place  on  their  nimble,  soft-padded  feet. 
70 


The  cats  carry  on  a  half-feud  with 
Buttons,  but  they  can't  really  mean  it, 
because  they  miss  her,  when  she  has  to 
stay  at  the  vet's. 

Janet,  a  boarding  student  at  a  private 
school,  gets  home  for  holidays  and  is  en- 
joying the  social  whirl  of  a  popular  girl 
in  her  middle  teens.  She  has  the  gift  of 
getting  along  well  with  practically  every- 
one, of  liking  them  and  being  liked,  and 
the  house  brightens  up  perceptibly  when- 
ever she  comes  home. 

Douglas  is  at  Amherst,  wrapped  up  in 
engineering  and  music.  He  wants  to  go 
to  M.I.T.  later,  and  got  practical  ex- 
perience last  summer  by  working  in  an 
electrical  laboratory.  "He  has  a  good  head 
on  him,"  Don  says  proudly.  "He  is  a 
good  worker,  and  he  won  the  commenda- 
tion of  the  lab  heads  by  doing  a  good  job 
during  his  vacation  time." 

Doug  also  "made"  the  Ail-American 
orchestra  in  St.  Louis  last  year.  He  plays 
bass  viol  and  sousaphone,  has  a  knowl- 
edge of  several  other  instruments.  He's  a 
member  of  the  various  musical  activities 
at  college,  including  the  Amherst  orches- 
tra, and  plays  in  a  dance  band  Saturday 
nights.  When  Don  became  fearful  that 
his  son  was  attempting  to  follow  too  many 
extra-curricular  interests,  Doug  pointed 
out  that  he  would  probably  be  dancing  to 
the  band  if  he  weren't  playing  in  it,  since 
Saturday  night  wasn't  the  best  time  for 
a  boy  to  study,  anyhow.  It  sounded  so 
logical  that  Don  gave  in. 

In  looks,  the  kids  are  composites  of 
both  parents,  except  that  Janet  seems  more 
like  Don  and  Douglas  more  like  Mary's 
family.  Britt  is  a  distinct  mixture  of  both, 
favoring  neither.  Oddly  enough,  they  are 
almost  the  same  ages  as  Chris  Hughes' 
children  in  As  The  World  Turns,  the 
children  to  whom  Don  plays  father.  On 
the  show,  the  older  boy  is  eighteen,  the 
same  age  as  Douglas.  The  younger  boy  is 
twelve,  the  same  as  Britt.  Only  the  seven- 
teen-year-old daugher  is  a  little  older 
than  Janet  who  is  fifteen. 

"Chris  Hughes'  life  and  my  own  have 
some  interesting  and  happy  similarities 
like  that,"  Don  points  out.  "We  both  have 
a  good  family  life,  which  we  try  hard  to 
keep  on  an  even  keel.  Sometimes,  as 
Chris,  I  say  things  on  the  show  which  are 
not  at  all  unlike  the  things  I  have  to  say 
occasionally  to  my  own  kids.  I  was  bawl- 
ing out  my  son  one  day  and,  in  the 
middle  of  my  fatherly  harangue,  the 
thought  suddenly  struck  me  that  I  was 
talking  and  acting  just  like  Chris  Hughes. 
After  that,  I  had  a  hard  time  keeping  my 
mind  on  the  thing  that  was  angering  me!" 

Because  Don  is  the  typical  "father  type," 
a  wise  and  kind  person  to  whom  people 
turn  for  advice  and  help,  the  crew  on  the 
show  have  a  way  of  caUing  Wm  "Dad." 
That's  all  right  with  him.  He  likes  being 
a  Dad.  "I  got  the  part,"  he  says  simply, 
"because  I  look  Hke  a  happily  married 
guy  with  kids  whose  life  follows  a 
pleasant  pattern  unless— and  until— other 
people's  problems  come  along  to  upset  it." 

Mary  used  to  watch  the  show,  but  the 
mountains  which  ring  their  Vermont 
valley  shut  out  the  CBS  television  net- 
work. To  see  As  The  World  Turns,  she  has 
to  go  up  the  mountain  about  five  miles  to 
visit  friends  at  the  top,  so— for  the  most 
part — she  follows  the  story  line  by  cueing 
Don  when  he  studies  his  script,  or  by 
listening  to  Britt  and  Don.  "I  miss  having 
Mary's  criticisms,"  Don  admits,  "although 
of  course,  she  listens  to  the  radio  shows' 
as  often  as  possible." 

Weekends,  when  Don  isn't  boning  up 
on  next  week's  scripts,  he  is  doing  chores 


i 
I 

all  around  the  place,  getting  supplies,  visit- 
ing around  town,  swapping  information 
about  crops  and  gardening.  Mostly  he's 
on  the  receiving  end  of  such  information, 
trying  to  learn,  from  those  who  know  local 
conditions,  how  to  get  the  most  from  the 
rocky  Vermont  soil.  "It's  an  interesting 
problem,"  he  says.  "The  gardening  season 
is^  short  in  our  part  of  the  country,  and  it's 
nip  and  tuck — mostly  nip — to  get  crops  in 
before  the  first  frost,  and  get  things  started 
properly  to  take  advantage  of  every  day 
of  warm  weather  in  the  spring  and 
summer.  My  neighbors  are  gradually 
educating  me." 

Don  used  to  spend  most  of  his  leisure' 
with  cameras  and  dark-room  procedures, 
but  he  is  painting  now,  studying  here  and 
there,  whenever  there  is  a  good  class  to 
be  found  at  the  hours  he  can  work.  An 
excellent  oil  of  Douglas  at  thirteen,  with 
his  first  bass  fiddle,  hangs  in  the  house, 
along  with  Don's  self-portrait  and  other 
paintings.  One  day  there  will  be  a  gallery 
of  the  entire  family.  Don  plays  a  guitar  a 
little,  once  played  accompaniments  on  the 
guitar  as  a  singing  cowboy  on  a  radio  show, 
but  he  doesn't  consider  himself  a  musician. 

1  he  man  who  is  now  so  much  at  home 
in  New  England  is  really  a  Midwesterner, 
who  was  graduated  from  the  University 
of  Iowa,  got  some  of  his  education  at 
Iowa  Wesleyan  and  Northwestern  in 
Chicago,  and  at  the  University  of  Arizona. 
Like  many  actors  Don  has  tried  his  hand 
at  many  in-between  jobs  while  he  was 
struggling  to  get  established — ^from  de- 
signing miniature-golf  courses  to  illustra- 
tion, to  being  seaman  on  a  freighter.  About 
every  five  years,  he  has  done  a  Broad- 
way show,  for  a  total  of  four  to  date.  The 
last  time  was  in  "South  Pacific,"  as 
Commander  Harbison.  "I  replaced  a  re- 
placement," he  grins,  "and  liked  every 
minute  of  it." 

While  in  New  York,  Don  leads  quite  a 
different  life  from  the  homekeeping  one 
in  Vermont.  Weekdays  in  the  city,  he  is 
up  at  6:30,  at  work  by  7:30,  and  the  TV 
show  is  on  the  air  at  1:30  P.M.,  Eastern 
time.  After  a  short  break  to  take  off  make- 
up and  have  a  quick  lunch,  the  cast  is  back 
for  rehearsal  until  late  afternoon. 

When  Don  takes  his  scripts  home  over 
the  weekends,  he  often  wishes  he  were 
the  kind  of  actor  who  can  read  a  script 
quietly  to  himself  and  absorb  it.  Saying 
the  lines  out  loud  comes  more  naturally 
to  him  and,  when  he  studies  on  the  train, 
he  has  to  catch  himself  to  keep  from  de- 
claiming lines  to  the  startled  passengers! 

"Television,"  says  Don,  "has  something 
of  the  same  challenge  as  the  stage.  And, 
once  that  red  light  is  on  the  camera  and 
the  show  gets  rolling,  everyone  is  on  his 
own.  No  one  can  rescue  you  by  calling 
out  'Cut.'  But  there  is  excitement,  and 
fulfillment,  in  this.  The  actors  on  our 
show  are  all  such  'pro's'  who  know  their 
stuff.  Such  nice  people,  too.  The  whole 
thing  is  very  pleasant,  and  very  satisfying." 

Up  in  Vermont,  however,  Don  tries  to 
forget  MacLaughlin,  the  actor.  There  is  a 
picture  he  painted  which  hangs  there,  one 
that  Mary  and  the  family  wouldn't  part 
with — the  first  landscape  he  ever  did  of 
their  town,  at  the  time  when  they  first 
began  to  feel  they  wanted  to  "belong" 
and  be  part  of  the  commimity  in  every 
possible  way. 

"Mary  has  become  absorbed  in  com- 
munity life,"  Don  .says.  "She  has  been 
able  to  do  that  better  than  I,  but  I  am 
hoping  to  do  more.  I  want  to  be  a  good 
citizen,  and  a  good  neighbor."  It's  what 
you  would  expect  Chris  Hughes  to  say, 
as  well  as  Don  MacLaughlin  himself. 


GREATEST  TV  HADIO  ANNUAL 


The  big,  new  1957  edition  of  TV-Radio  An- 
nual is  the  greatest  ever!  it's  got  everything. 
It  covers  all  the  events  and  all  the  history- 
making  moments  of  all  the  great  shows  and 
programs  of  the  year. 

Here  are  pictures,  as  well  as  thumbnail  de- 
scriptions of  all  the  stars.  Here  are  the 
behind-the-scenes  stories  of  all  the  new 
shows.  Here  is  news  . . .  gossip  and  chit-chat 
from  coast  to  coast.  In  short,  here  is  the 
most  colorful  and  exciting  book  imaginable. 
Now  get  more  enjoyment  than  ever  before 
from  your  radio  or  TV  set.  Now  get  your 
copy  of  the  greatest  TV-Radio  Annual  ever 
published. 


1957 


EDITION 
ON  SALE  NOW  AT 
ALL    NEWSSTANDS 

Get  your  copy  of  this  great  Annual 
from  your  newsdealer  now.  Only  50<. 
This  yearbook  sells  out  as  soon  as  it 
is  placed  on  sole — so  hurry.  If  your 
newsdealer  is  sold  out,  mail  coupon 
with  50<t  today. 


All  Your  Favorite  Stars 
All  Your  Favorite  Programs 
News  Events  of  the  Year 
Personalities  of  the  Year 
New  Shows  of  the  Year 
Gorgeous  Color  Portraits 
Life  Stories 


TV  RADIO  MIRROR 

Dept.  RM-357 

205  E.  42  St.,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 

Send  me  TV-RADIO  ANNUAL  1957.  I  enclose  SOft. 


Nome 

Please  Print 


Address 


City State. 


71 


(Continued  from  page  28) 
was  supported  by  Bill  Lennon  a  few  years 
ago  by  a  job  driving  an  early-morning 
milk  truck  for  Edgemar  Farms.  He  says, 
"It's  logical  for  the  father  of  a  family  of 
eight  to  be  driving  a  milk  truck.  The  girls 
each  drink  a  quart  a  day."  Since  then, 
Bill  Lennon  has  advanced  to  a  wholesale 
selling  job  for  the  same  company.  But  he 
comments,  "It  still  takes  one  truck  to  keep 
the  Lennons  supplied  with  milk."  In  this 
same  time  interval,  the  Lennons  have 
moved  from  a  small  house  to  their  present 
home  in  Venice,  big  enough  for  their  in- 
creasing family.  There  is  unusual  family 
harmony  among  them,  and  sharing  of 
family  responsibilities  and  interests.  Yet 
each  remains  an  individual. 

Dianne,  the  eldest  of  the  singing  quartet 
of  Lennons,  is  a  beautiful  light  blond.  She 
is  a  sports  enthusiast,  has  been  playing 
passable  golf  since  she  was  six  years  old. 
Last  summer,  she  succeeded  in  trouncing 
her  mother  and  father  at  the  game  (with 
the  aid  of  part-time  beau  Bob  O'Neil,  a 
Notre  Dame  freshman).  When  Dianne  is 
not  singing,  swimming,  or  on  the  golf 
course,  she  is  likely  to  be  wrapped  up  in 
some  historical  or  romantic  novel.  And,  as 
oldest  of  the  family,  she  regularly  helps 
out  with  the  younger  children. 

Blue-eyed  Dianne — who  has  been  nick- 
named "DeDe"  by  sister  Peggy — is  in  love 
with  the  color  blue.  Her  bedroom  is  dec- 
orated in  blue.  Her  favorite  skirts  and 
blouses  are  blue  to  match  her  eyes.  And 
she  loves  blue -jeans. 

"eggy,  next  in  line,  at  fifteen,  has  her 
mother's  coloring — snapping  black  eyes 
and  brown  hair.  She  is  possessor  of  a 
wonderfully  outgoing  personality,  yet  has 
a  serious  side,  too.  It  was  Peggy  who 
began  several  years  ago  to  think  about 
being  a  nun.  It  is  Peggy  who  has  been 
nicknamed  "The  Brain,"  but  in  no  de- 
rogatory way — she  earned  it  by  graduating 
with  honors  from  St.  Mark's  parochial 
school  in  Venice,  and  was  awarded  a  four- 
year  scholarship  at  St.  Monica's  for  her 
straight-A-average    grades. 

Peggy  still  hasn't  decided  definitely 
about  joining  a  religious  order,  but  she  is 
an  avid  reader  of  religious  books.  Re- 
cently, she  and  Lawrence  Welk  fell  into  a 
conversation  about  the  writings  of  St. 
Thomas  Aquinas.  Peggy's  subsequent  re- 
search into  the  works  of  St.  Thomas  kept 
this  volatile  Lennon  out  of  family  dis- 
cussions for  a  week.  Peggy's  favorite  color 
is  red.  And  her  mother  has  an  interesting 
comment  to  make.  "I  tell  Peggy,"  says 
Isobel  Lennon,  "I've  never  yet  seen  a  nun 
wearing  red."  But  the  Lennons  respect  and 
revere  Peggy's  devout  nature. 

Pretty  thirteen-year-old  Kathy,  number 
three  of  the  four  singing  Lennon  sisters, 
is  brown-eyed,  has  light  brown  hair.  Like 
all  the  rest  of  the  Lennons,  she's  an  in- 
dividual in  her  own  right.  And  she  is  the 
only  one  of  all  the  Lennons  who  is  left- 
handed.  According  to  national  statistics, 
about  one  out  of  every  ten  children  is  a 
southpaw.  Mrs.  Lennon  says  with  a  laugh, 
"That  means  we'll  have  to  have  another 
ten  children  before  we  can  expect  another 
southpaw  in  the  family."  Kathy  is  a  born 
humorist,  according  to  her  dad,  who  says, 
"Kathy's  gags  come  straight  out  of  left 
field."  Her  hobby  time  is  spent  on  record- 
listening  and  reading  "just  plain  girl 
books." 

Ten-year-old  Janet  is  nicknamed   "The 

J    Little  Child"  (from  the  song  she  performed 

y     with  violinist  Aladdin  on  the  Welk  show). 

U     Since  the  Lennon  Sisters  first  appeared  on 

the  Welk  show,  Janet  has  come  into  her 

own.    Mr.    Welk    has   taken   to   addressing 

her  as  spokesman  for  the  group,  and  this 


Fabulous  Singing  Sisters 

has  helped  Janet  to  real  self-confidence. 

Success  is  still  something  new  to  all 
the  Lennon  Sisters.  But  singing  isn't. 
"Bill  and  I,"  says  Isobel  Lennon,  "sang 
Irish  lullabies  like  'Too-ra-lpo-ra-loo-ral' 
to  Dianne  and  Peggy  when  they  were  very 
little  girls.  They  repeated  them  as  they 
rocked  back  and  forth  in  their  rocking 
chairs.  Then  Kathy  was  born.  And,  before 
she  was  old  enough  to  talk,  she  was 
humming  along  with  them. 

"When  Kathy  was  six,"  Mrs.  Lennon 
recalls,  "I  came  in  one  day  to  find  the 
three  of  them  singing  'Good  Night,  Ladies,' 
in  perfect  harmony.  Bill  and  I  were  both 
surprised  and  pleased  at  our  daughters' 
natural  musical  ability.  I  told  my  father 
about  Kathy's  attempt  at  harmony  and  he, 
having  been  a  song  and  dance  man,  helped 
her.  Even  Janet,  only  two-and-a-half  at 
the  time,  got  into  the  act.  She  sang  with 
the  others — taking  the  part  of  the  one  she 
was  standing  closest  to — and,  when  we 
had  company  it  was  customary  for  the 
girls  to  'perform.'  Dianne  was  the  director. 

"But  all  kids  put  on  shows.  We  didn't 
think  it  was  out  of  the  ordinary  that  our 
girls  sang.  Today,  never  having  taken  a 
music  lesson,  they  make  their  own  ar- 
rangements without  putting  a  note  on 
paper.  They  pick  their  songs  from  among 
their  favorites  on  records,  radio  and  TV. 
Once  a  song  is  selected,  they  play  it  at 
home  until  memorized." 

"That's  where  my  brother  Pat  and  I 
come  in,"  Bill  Lennon  adds.  "When  Pat, 
Bob,  Ted  and  I  sang  together  as  the 
Lennon  Brothers,  Pat  was  the  only  one 
who  understood  harmony.  Today,  he  helps 
the  girls  straighten  out  their  musical  ar- 
rangements. After  each  girl  has  her  melody 
established,  we  try  for  a  cute  ending,  and 
I  help  them  here,  too." 

When  the  girls  were  younger,  neither 
Mr.  nor  Mrs.  Lennon  felt  they  were 
polished  enough  singers  to  become  pro- 
fessionals. "When  Janet  was  six,"  says 
Mrs.  Lennon,  "our  church  put  on  a  big 
show  to  raise  money  for  charity.  We  hired 
the  Culver  City  Auditorium  and  it  was 
suggested   the   girls   sing. 

"This  was  their  first  public  appearance 
together.  The  arrangements  were  made 
so  hurriedly  I  was  still  sewing  their  cos- 
tumes an  hour  before  the  performance. 
They  did  two  numbers,  a  Scottish  Medley 
and  'Dry  Bones,'  which  they  did  with  their 
father  and  his  brothers  (who  had  long 
sung  together  as  a  quartet). 

Was  the  show  a  success?  The  Lennons 
hadn't  realized  how  good  their  children 
were.  Both  song  numbers  at  the  benefit 
were  show-stoppers.  In  the  audience  were 
the  entertainment  chairmen  for  the  Venice 
Lions  Club  and  the  Elks  Club.  After  the 
performance,  these  gentlemen  asked  Bill 
Lennon  if  his  daughters  would  be  willing 
to  sing  for  their  organizations,  too.  Bill 
said  he'd  ask,  and  the  girls  readily  agreed— 
though  they  were  not  remotely  aware  at 
the  time  that  all  this  benefit  singing  might 
lead  them  to  a  professional  career. 

About  this  time,  Dianne  Lennon  met 
Lawrence  Welk,  Jr.,  and  he  heard  the  girls 
sing  at  the  Elks  Club  benefit.  Afterward, 
he  said  to  Mr.  Lennon,  "Gee,  they're 
great!"  And,  to  Dianne,  he  said,  "I'd  sure 
like  my  dad  to  hear  you  girls." 

"That  would  be  fine,"  said  Dianne,  never 
dreaming  anything  would  come  of  it. 

As  a  matter  of  fact,  Mr.  Welk  wasn't 
easy  to  pin  down,  feeling,  perhaps,  that 
his  son  was  still  somewhat  young  to  be 
acting  as  a  talent  scout.  One  Sunday,  how- 
ever, Mr.  Welk  was  confined  to  his  bed 
with  a  bad  cold.  Knowing  his  father 
couldn't  escape,  Larry  called  the  girls 
and  told  them  to  hurry  over  after  mass 

"I  went  with  the  girls,"  says  Mrs.  Len- 


non, "never  really  expecting  that  any- 
thing would  come  from  the  'audition.'  It 
didn't  occur  to  us  that  Mr.  Welk  would 
want  the  girls  on  the  show.  Actually,  we 
only  wanted  him  to  listen  to  them  and 
give  us  his   professional   opinion. 

"The  girls  sang  one  song,  'He,'  during 
which  time  Mr.  Welk's  expression  never 
changed.  Right  then  and  there,  I  was  think- 
ing to  myself,  I  knew  nothing  would  come  . 
of  this.  But,  after  a  pause,  he  said,  'Some- 
times I'm  fooled  about  these  things.  Do 
you  mind  if  I  call  my  agent,  Sam  Lutz  . . . 
he  has  a  very  good  ear.'  He  made  a  call 
and  said,  'I  have  some  girls  here  I  want 
you  to  listen  to,  Sam  .  .  .'  and  the  girls 
sang  another  number  into  the  phone  for 
Mr.  Lutz.  When  they  were  finished,  there 
was — for  us — an  endless  two  minutes  of 
silence,  while  Mr.  Welk  listened  to  Mr. 
Lutz's  reaction.  Then  he  turned  to  us  and 
said,  'The  Cardinal  gives  a  big  charity 
party  for  children  every  Christmas.  Would 
you    consider   singing?' 

"  'Oh,  yes!'  the  girls  chorused.  Then,  as 
■we  left,  he  added,  'And  by  the  way  .  .  . 
do  you  think  you  could  be  on  my  tele- 
vision show  on  Christmas?' 

"The  next  Thursday,  we  went  down  to 
Mr.  Welk's  rehearsal  at  the  Aragon  Ball- 
room. I  stood  in  the  back,  hoping  to  stay 
out  of  the  way — but,  after  the  girls  sang 
and  the  bandsmen  took  their  break,  I 
couldn't  help  hearing  what  the  men  said. 
Violinist  Aladdin  was  standing  next  to  me 
talking  to  Bob  Lido.  Aladdin  said,  'The 
way  those  girls  sing  just  makes  my  heart 
hurt.'  Since  then,"  says  Mrs.  Lennon  with 
a  laugh,  "Aladdin  and  his  wife  have  be- 
come two  of  our  most  special  friends." 

1  he  girls  were  quickly  accepted  into  the 
Welk  band  family.  "There  is  one  thing 
about  those  Lennon  girls,"  says  Ed  Sobel, 
the  producer,  "they  are  the  greatest."  And 
Mr.  Welk  loves  them  like  his  daughters. 

The  fellows  in  the  band,  too,  have  ac- 
cepted the  girls  like  their  own  sisters.  "In 
fact,"  says  Mrs.  Lennon,  "my  husband 
went  with  the  girls  on  a  two-week  tour. 
When  they  returned.  Bill  reported  he 
didn't  have  to 'worry  a  bit  about  the  girls, 
because  they  immediately  had  become 
great  friends  with  the  whole  band.  The 
fellows  looked  after  them  like  brothers. 
They  made  sure  the  girls  didn't  miss  the 
plane,  got  to  bed  at  the  right  time,  main- 
tained a  proper  diet,  and  brushed  their 
teeth!" 

The  devotion  is  two-sided.  The  girls 
love  Mr.  Welk,  the  band  and  their  work. 
Agent  Sam  Lutz  told  them  recently, 
"There's  a  good  chance,  in  the  not  too 
distant  future,  for  you  girls  to  make  a 
movie.  One  successful  picture  and  you  can 
all  retire  for  life."  They  gave  this  their 
considered  thought  for  a  moment.  Then 
Peggy  replied,  "We  don't  care  about  being 
in  movies.  We'd  rather  work  for  Mr.  Welk 
on  television." 

The  family  schedule  today  is  a  far  cry  « 
from  what  it  was  a  few  years  ago,  when  ■ 
Bill  Lennon  was  driving  that  early-morn-  ' 
ing  njilk  truck.  He  left  the  small,  two- 
bedroom  home  at  five  in  the  black  of 
morning,  in  those  days.  But,  since  his  pro-  1 
motion  he  has  more  "normal"  hours.  ^ 

Today,  the  family's  day  begins  about 
6:15 — "when  the  baby  wakes  us,"  says 
Mrs.  Lennon.  "The  girls  get  up  about 
6:45  (or  6:30,  if  they  haven't  finished 
their  homework) .  If  I  make  pancakes,  bis- 
cuits, muffins  or  something  else  they  all 
like,  we'll  eat  the  same  thing.  Otherwise, 
they  are  on  their  own,  for  everybody  likes 
a  different  kind  of  toast,  or  one  wants 
scrambled  eggs  and  another  wants 
poached.  But  they  all  like  the  same  kind 
of  orange  juice."  As  an  afterthought,  she 


adds,  "And  they  all  like  the  same  kind  of 
hamburgers — which  they  could  eat  morn- 
ing, noon  and  night. 

"If  it  weren't  for  the  girls,  I  don't  know 
what  I'd  do,"  she  smiles.  "Before  they  go 
to  school,  they  dress  the  three  little  ones, 
Billy,  Pat,  and  Mimi,  while  I  start  the 
dishes.  And  one  of  them  will  help  Danny 
get  his  teeth  brushed  and  hair  combed — 
he's  a  big  boy  now,  insists  on  dressing 
himself.  After  making  their  own  beds  and 
hanging  up  their  clothes,  they  are  off  to 
school. 

"The  girls  get  home  about  four  and 
start  their  homework.  At  six,  I  take  Mimi 
up  to  bed  and  dump  the  boys  in  a  tub  to 
keep  them  out  of  the  way  while  the  girls 
start  rehearsal  downstairs.  They  rehearse 
an  hour  or  two  a  day,  helped  by  their 
dad,  who  joins  them  after  he  reads  the 
evening  paper." 

Bill  squats  on  the  living-room  floor  with 
the  girls,  listening  and  making  notes  while 
they  sing  through  their  number.  He  then 
suggests  at  which  points  he  thinks  they 
can  go  from  unison  to  harmony  and  back 
again.  "Speaking  of  their  harmony,"  says 
Bill,  "it  is  the  old-fashioned  barber-shop 
variety — without    mustaches." 

The  girls  have  never  decided  in  what 
key  they  sing.  The  closest  thing  to  a  key 
for  the  Lennon  Sisters  is  their  father's 
trusty  pitch-pipe,  which  determines  their 
"starting  notes."  Holding  up  the  pitch-pipe 
Bill  Lennon  says  proudly,  "We  call  it  our 
'blower.'  Someday  we're  going  to  have  it 
gold-plated." 

After  the  rehearsal,  the  girls  are  on  their 
own.  They  listen  to  records — ^they  are  fond 
of  Dixieland  and  think  Patience  and  Pru- 
dence are  "the  end."  They  do  not  par- 
ticularly like  rock   'n'  roll. 

The  Lennons  live  now  in  a  large  two- 
storey  clapboard,  five-bedroom  home  (a 
comfortable  increase  over  the  two-bed- 
room home  they  recently  left).  "Best  part 
about  it,"  says  Dianne,  "is  the  closet 
space.  Now  we  finally  have  room  to  hang 
our  clothes.  What  luxury!"  Speaking  of 
clothes,  the  girls  are  partial  to  the  new 
Ivy-League  look.  A  blouse  just  doesn't 
mean  anything  anymore  if  it  doesn't  have 
a  button  on  the  back  of  the  collar.  The 
clothes  for  the  shows  are  supplied  by 
Henshey's  Santa  Monica  Department 
Store.  "A  fairly  neat  arrangement,"  says 
Mrs.  Lennon,  "because  my  best  friend  and 
I  finally  gave  up  trying  to  make  their 
costumes  every  week — our  fingers  looked 
like    pin    cushions." 

The  "new"  house,  about  thirty  years  old, 
has  a  giant  palm  tree  in  the  front  and  a 
spacious  back  yard  for  the  children.  The 
kids  love  to  play  tether  ball.  Danny,  who 
may  be  the  next  Mickey  Mantle,  practices 
pitching,  hitting,  and  base-running  while 
older  sister  Dianne  swings  her  golf  clubs. 
Pat  shags  balls. 

The  house  is  one  short  block  from  their 
church,  St.  Mark's.  "We  just  love  it,"  says 
Mrs.  Lennon,  "for  our  religion  is  the  cen- 
ter of  our  life.  It  means  a  great  deal  to  all 
of  us."  On  the  maple  bench  in  the  living 
room  rest  eight  Bibles. 

"The  children  were  all  baptized  and,  so 
far,  have  made  their  confirmations  at  St. 
Mark's.  In  fact,  all  the  children  were 
born  in  this  area:  Janet  in  Culver  City; 
Dianne  and  Peggy  in  Leimert  Park;  and 
Kathy,  Danny,  Pat,  Billy  and  Mimi  at  St. 
John's  hospital  in  Santa  Monica.  The  next 
one,"  she  says  with  a  smile,  "will  be  born 
at  St.  John's,  too.  Your  eighth  one,  and 
all  those  after,  are  free.  And,  oh,  they  just 
treat  you  like  a  queen!" 

The  Lennon  fans  across  the  country  will 
be  pleased  to  know  that  a  ninth  little 
Lennon  is  due  in  May,  thereby  guaran- 
teeing the  possibility  of  a  Lennon  teen-age 
quartet  through  the  year  1976.  Boy  or  girl, 
it  will  obviously  be  welcomed  with  love 
into  the  Lennon's  house  of  harmony. 


OPPORTUNITIES 

FOR  EVERYBODY 

Publisher's  Classified  Department  (Trademark) 


For  classified  advertising  rates,  write  to  William  R.  Stewart,  9  South  Clinton  Street,  Chicago  6  (Wo.-March)  19S7 


OF  INTEREST  TO  WOMEN 

FREE  CATALOG!  BIG  Savingsl  The  colorful  National  Bellas 
Hess  Catalog  offers  New  York's  latest  styles  at  lowest  prices 
anywhere.  Clothing  for  the  whole  family.  Household  items, 
Money-back  guarantee,  our  69th  year.  Write  today — National 
Bellas  Hess,  601-3  Bellas  Hess  Building,  Kansas  City,  Mo. 
ADVERTISERS  WILL  PAY  To  $500  for  Your  Child's  photo 
(all  ages).  Send  one  small  picture.  Print  child's,  parent's 
name,  address  on  back.  Returned  15  days.  Hollywood  Spot- 

lite,  8346-P3  Beverly  Blvd.,  Hollywood,  California. 

WHOLESALE  CATALOG.  30-80%  DiscountsI  Appliances, 
Musical  Instruments,  Typewriters,  Tools,  Watches,  Jewelry, 
Cameras,  Housewares,  etc.  Consolidated  Distributors,  1300 

Main,  Clifton  18,  New  Jersey. 

$200.  MONTHLY  POSSIBLE,  Sewing  Babywear— Play- 
Time  Dresses;  lacing  Leather  MoccasinsI  New  Baby  Sandals! 
No   house  selling!   Rush  stamped,  addressed  envelope  for 

further  details.  Babygay,  Warsaw  1,  Indiana. 

$100-$200  MONTHLY  Possible,  Preparing  envelopes,  post- 
cards, from  mailing  lists  at  home.  Longhand,  typewriter. 
Detailed   Instructions  only  25cl  Economy  Publishers,  Box 

1686,  Clearwater  3,  Florida. 

SPARETIME  HOMEWORK!  GUARANTEED  Pay.  No  Sell- 
ing, Everything  Furnished.  Enterprises,  229  Adams,  Boston, 

22-C,  Massachusetts. 

$500  FOR  YOUR  child's  photo,  all  ages,  if  used  for  adver- 
tising. Send  photo  for  approval — free  camera  offer.  Returned 
two  weeks.  Advertisers,  6000-YC  Sunset,  Los  Angeles  28. 
DRESSES  24c;  SHOES  39c;  Men's  suits  $4.95;  trousers 
$1.20.  Better  used  clothing.  Free  Catalog.  Transworld  164-A 

Christopher,  Brooklyn  12,  N.Y. 

HOME  SEWERS  WANTED— Earn  extra  cash  making  readi- 
cut  ties.  No  selling.  We  instruct.  Free  details:  Jud  San,  518  E. 

105th,  Dept.  C-15,  Cleveland  8,  Ohio. 

$2.00  HOURLY  POSSIBLE  doing  light  assembly  work  at 
home.   Experience   unnecessary.  Crown   Industries,  8507-B 

West  Third,  Los  Angeles  48,  Calif. 

SEW  OUR  READY  cut  aprons  at  home,  spare  time.  Easy, 

Profitable.  Hanky  Aprons,  Ft.  Smith  3,  Arl<. 

EARN  $50  FAST  sewing  our  precut  products.  Information  3c. 

Thompson's,  Loganville,  Wisconsin. ___^_ 

EARN  SPARETIME  CASH  Mailing  Advertising  Literature. 

Glenway,  Box  6568,  Cleveland  1,  Ohio. 

MAKE  MONEY  CLIPPING  Newspaper  Items  For  Pub- 
lishers.  Write  Newscraft,  PW-983-E.  Main,  Columbus  5,  Ohio. 
$30.00  WEEKLY  MAKING  Roses.  Easy,  Write  Studio  Com- 

pany,  Greenville  5,  Pa. 

WHOLESALE:  ONE  OR  More  watches,  jewelry,  appliances 
etc.  John  Hal!,  1265-P  Broadway,  New  York. 

AGENTS  WANTED 

FASHION  DEMONSTRATORS— $20-$40  profit  evenings. 
No  delivering  or  collecting.  Beeline  Style  Shows  are  Party  Plan 
sensation!  No  investment.  Managers  also  needed.  Beeline 

Fashions,  Bensenville  12,  Illinois. 

WAXES  FLOORS  WITHOUT  "Wax".  New  Invention.  No 
more  floor  wax  to  buy.  Sensational  seller.  Samples  sent  on 

trial.  Kristee  148,  Akron,  Ohio. 

CALIFORNIA  SWEET  SMELLING  Beads.  Sensational 
sellers.  Free  Particulars.  Mission,  2328AA  West  Pico,  Los 

Angeles  6,  California. 

60%  PROFIT  COSMETICS  $25  day  up.  Hire  others.  Samples, 
details.  Studio  Girl-Hollywood,  Glendale,  Calif.,  Dept.  1673H. 

SALESWOMEN  WANTED 

ANYONE  CAN  SELL  famous  Hoover  Uniforms  for  beauty 
shops,  waitresses,  nurses,  doctors,  others.  All  popular  miracle 
fabrics — nylon,  dacron,  orlon.  Exclusive  styles,  top  quality. 
Big  cash  income  now,  real  future.  Equipment  free.  Hoover, 

Dept.  D-1 1 9,  New  York  1 1 ,  N.Y. 

EVERYDAY  CARDS!  MAKE  Big  Money!  Sell  21  "Tall" 
greeting  cards,  $1.00.  400  other  fast  selling  gifts,  greetings, 
personalized  specialties.  Samples  on  approval.  Write,  Arrow, 
Dept.  B,  4th  Ave.  So.,  Minneapolis,  Minn. 

BUSINESS  OPPORTUNITIES 

PREPARE  ADVERTISING  LETTERS.  Mail  to  our  name 
lists.    $60    weekly    possible.    Adams,    11603-R    Paramount: 

Downey,  California. 

INVISIBLY  MEND  DAMAGED  garments  at  home.  Make  big 
money.  Details  Free.  Fabricon,  8340-S  Prairie,  Chicago  19,  III. 
FREE  BOOK.  GROW  Mushrooms.  Guaranteed  Market. 
Mushrooms,  Dept.  412,  2954  Admiral  Way,  Seattle,  Wash. 

MISCELLANEOUS 

FREE  BOOK  ON  Arthritis,  Rheumatism  explains  specialized 
system  on  non-surgical,  non-medical  treatment.  Write  Ball 

Clinic,  Dept.  750,  Excelsior  Springs,  Missouri. 

OLD  COINS  &  MONEY  WANTED 
PAY  $325.00  CERTAIN  Cents  Before  1924.  Complete  All- 
coin    Illustrated    Catalogue   $1.00.   Worthy   Coin,    K-297-C, 

Boston  8,  Massachusetts. 

WE  PURCHASE  INDIANHEAD  pennies.  Complete  allcoin 
catalogue  25c.  Magnacoins,  Box  61-BE,  Whitestone  57,  N.  Y. 
WE  BUY  ALL  rare  American  coins.  Complete  cataloaue  25o 

Fairview,  Box  1116-CX,  New  York  City  8. 

WORK  AT  HOME 
CASH,  MAKING  ORCHIDS.  No  selling.  Free  sample.  Boy- 
can,  Sharon  14,  Penna. 

HOME  SEWERS  OPPORTUNITIES 

SEW  BABY  SHOES  at  home!  $40  week  possible.  We  con- 
tact  stores  for  you.  Tiny-Tot,  Gallipolis  19,  Ohio. 


HELP  WANTED 


IF  YOU'RE  INTERESTED  in  making  money  in  selling  in 
spare  time  or  in  full  time,  see  the  hundreds  of  exceptional 
opportunities  in  Opportunity  Magazine.  Send  name  for  your 
copy,  absolutely  Free.  Opportunity,  848  N.  Dearborn,  Dept. 

48,  Chicago  10,  111 

BEAUTY  DEMONSTRATORS— TO  $5.00  hour  demonstrat- 
ing Famous  Hollywood  Cosmetics,  your  neighborhood.  For 
free  samples,  details,  write  Studio  Girl,  Dept.  1673C,  Glendale, 

Calif.  

IF  YOU  WANT  to  earn  money  fast,  I'll  send  you  Free  Sample 
Stocking  Of  newest  Stretch  DuPont  Nylons  to  sell  at  only  $1 

a  pair.  American  Mills,  Dept.  610,  Indianapolis  7,  Ind. 

EARN  EXTRA  MONEY  selling  Advertising  Book  Matches. 
Free  sample  kit  furnished.  Matchcorp,  Dept.  WP-35,  Chicago 

32,  Illinois. 

HOMEWORK  ON  HAND-made  moccasins  and  bags.  Easy, 
Profitable.  California  Handicrafts,  Los  Angeles  46,  California. 
$18.00  WEEKLY,  HANDPAINTING  planter  Plates.  No  sell- 
ing.  Flocraft,  Farrell  36,  Penna. 

EDUCATIONAL  OPPORTUNITIES 

GIRLS— WOMEN.  PRACTICAL  Nurses  needed.  Learn 
profitable  career  at  home  easily.  Many  earn  while  learning. 
High  school  not  required.  Free  booklet.  Wayne  School,  2525 

Sheffield,  Dept.  AW-23,  Chicago  14. 

COMPLETE  YOUR  HIGH  School  at  home  in  spare  time  with 
60-year-old  school.  Texts  furnished.  No  classes.  Diploma. 
Information    booklet    free.    American    School,    DepL    X374 

Drexel  at  58th,  Chicago  37,  Illinois. 

HIGH  SCHOOL  DIPLOMA  at  home.  Licensed  teachers. 
Approved  materials.  Southern  States  Academy,  Box  144W. 

Station  E,  Atlanta,  Georgia. 

FREE!  "TALENT  APTITUDE  Test"  Learn  acting  at  home 
for  TV,  radio,  theater,  movie  career.  Hollywood  Royal  Acade- 
my.  Studio  B2, 5880  Hollywood  Blvd.,  Hollywood  28,  Calif. 
LEARN  WHILE  ASLEEP!  Details  Free.  Research  Associa- 
tion.  Box  610-WP  Omaha,  Nebraska. 

LOANS  BY  MAIL 

BILLSI  BILLS!  BILLS!  Pay  them  quickly  with  cash  loan  by 
mail,  $100.00  to  $600.00.  Repay  in  small  monthly  installments 
over  20  months.  Your  payments  may  run  }4  less  than  now: 
have  money  left  over  to  spend.  Loan  Order  Blank  mailed 
Free  in  plain  envelope.  Advise  amount  you  need.  State  Finance 
Co.,  323  Securities  BIdg.,  Dept.  K-69,  Omaha  2,  Nebr. 
BORROW  $50  TO  $500.  Employed  men  and  women  over  25, 
eligible.  Confidential — no  co-signers — no  inquiries  of  employ- 
ers or  friends.  Repay  in  monthly  payments  to  fit  your  income. 
Supervised  by  State  of  Nebraska.  Loan  application  sent  free 
in   plain  envelope.  Give  occupation.   American   Loan   Plan, 

City  National  BIdg.,  Dept.  WD-3,  Omaha,  Nebraska. 

BORROW  BY  MAIL.$100-$600.  Anywhere.  Air  Mail  Service. 
Postal  Finance,  200  Keeline  Building,  Dept  653-C,  Omaha  2, 
Nebraska. 

MONEY  MAKING  OPPORTUNITIES 

EXTRA  MONEY  PREPARING  Mailing  Postcards,  Gul,  1815 

Meyers,  Lombard,  Illinois. 

$300.  MONTHLY  POSSIBLE  mailing  circulars.  Associated 
Advertisers,  509-B  Fifth  Ave.,  New  York  17,  N.Y. 

GUARANTEED  HOMEWORKl  IMMEDIATE  Commissions! 

Free  OutfitsI  Hirsch,  1301-12  Hoe,  New  York  City  59. 

$25  WEEKLY  POSSIBLE,  sparetime,  preparing  advertising 

mailings  at  home.  Temple  Co.,  Muncie  2,  Indiana. 

HOMEWORKERS  WANTED  PAINTING  novelties.  No  Sel!- 
ing.  N.  Roland,  R.D.  1  Vincentown,  N.J. 

MAKE  $100.00  WEEKLY  Mailing  Catalogs,  Write;  Products. 

2342S  Washington,  Chicago  12,  111. 

MAKE  YOUR  TYPEWRITER  Earn  Money.  Send  $1.00. 
Hughes,  7004  Diversey,  Chicago  35. 

STAMP  COLLECTING 

GIGANTIC  COLLECTION  FREE— Includes  Triangles- 
Early  United  States — Animals — Commemoratives — British 
Colonies — High  Value  Pictorials,  etc.  Complete  Collection 
plus  Big  Illustrated  Magazine  all  free.  Send  5c  for  postage. 

Gray  Stamp  Co.,  Dept.  PC,  Toronto,  Canada. 

FIRST  U.N.  SET.  Among  World's  Prettiest.  Only  10c.  Ap- 
provals.  Welles,  Box  1246-PX,  NYC 8. 

SPARE  TIME  WORK 

FREE  TRIAL  OF  full-size  famous  Blair  Home  Products  will 
prove  you  can  make  good  money  spare  time  every  day.  Show 
them  to  friends,  neighbors,  take  big-profit  orders.  Write  Blair, 
Dept.  185B,  Lynchburg,  Va. 

HEALTH  &  MEDICAL  SERVICE 

FREE  BOOK— PILES,  Fistula,  Colon-Stomach,  associated 
conditions.  Newest  scientific  procedures.  Thornton  Minor 
Hospital,  Suite  C-313,  Kansas  City  9,  Mo. 

INSTRUCTION 

FINISH  HIGH  SCHOOL  at  home,  spare  time.  No  classes. 
Diploma  awarded.  Write  for  Free  catalog  Wayne  School. 
Catalog  HCH-41, 2527  Sheffield,  Chicago  1 4. 

FOREIGN  &  U.S.A.  JOB  LISTINGS 

HIGH  PAYING  JOBS:  Foreign,  USA.  All  trades.  Travel  paid. 
Information.  Application  forms.  Write  DepL  21 B  National. 
1020  Broad,  Newark,  N.J. 

PERSONAL 

YOUR  HANDWRITING  ANALYZED  free.  Enclose  stamp. 
IGAS,  Inc.,  Springfield  4,  Missouri. 


Free!  ISRAEL  Stamp  Collection 


Free  Israel  Stamp  Collection  usually  selling  for  $1.00  and  more, 
this  packet  of  25  ALL  DIFFERENT  ISRAEL  stamps  is  yours 
FREE!  Stamps  from  this  proud,  freedom-loving  Nation  are 
sought  after  the  world  over.  Here  is  your  chance  to  own  a 
good  basic  collection  including  the  various  ancient  HEBREW 
GOIN  SETS,  12  TRIBES  ISSUE,  HIGH  HOLT  DAT,  RUN- 
NING STAG,  AIR-POST,  and  CHILDREN'S  ISSUE,  Etc. 
All  this  is  yours,  to  introduce  our  bargain  approval  offers. 
48  PAGE  STAMP  DICTIONART  AND  GUIDE  included  Free. 
Send  10c  to  help  cover  mailing  costs. 

STAMPEX  CO.,  Box  47,  MTV,  White  Plains,  N.  Y. 


73 


Indiana  Loves  Herb  Shriner 


(Continued  from  page  49) 
Since  they  spent  so  much  time  in  his 
place,  he  put  them  in  the  window  on 
Saturday  mornings  and  let  them  attract 
attention.  That  was  the  start  of  Har- 
monica Herb  and  His  Harmaniacs.  Ac- 
cording to  Eddie  Meadows,  one  of  the 
original  Harmaniacs  and  more  recently  a 
TV  cameraman,  they  probably  were  the 
most  juvenile  act  ever  to  book  themselves 
into  an  Indiana  saloon.  From  club  dates  in 
bars,  they  veered  into  the  wholesome 
rural  business  and  played  many  small- 
town affairs  for  gasoline  money  and  a 
good  meal. 

Berry  gave  the  boys  harmonicas.  He 
later  provided  Herb  with  an  accordion  on 
which  Herb  took  lessons  from  Al  Crowder. 
Years  later,  Crowder,  now  of  Mason  City, 
Iowa,  was  to  appear  on  Shriner's  TV  show. 
By  that  time,  neither  could  play  the  ac- 
cordion. About  four  years  ago,  Fort 
Wayne  turned  out  to  welcome  Shriner  at 
a  performance  on  the  courthouse  square. 
Tom  Berry  presented  him  with  another 
harmonica,  turned  to  the  crowd  and  said, 
"I'm  not  sure  about  this,  but  I  think  he 
still  owes  me  for  that  accordion."  Shriner 
said  he  couldn't  be  sxire,  either. 

In  the  mid-1930's,  the  program  director 
for  WOWO  was  Dorothy  Durbin,  who 
now  operates  a  model  and  theatrical  book- 
ing agency.  By  this  time,  Shriner  and  his 
outfit  were  making  spasmodic  radio  ap- 
pearances. The  kid,  who  sold  baked  goods 
on  Saturday  to  buy  gasoline  that  would 
take  his  band  to  its  Saturday-night  dates, 
eyed  the  radio  announcers  enviously. 
They  wore  suits,  white  shirts  and  ties. 
Why  shouldn't  he  be  a  radio  announcer? 

Many  times  he  asked  Dorothy  for  an 
announcer's  audition.  She  politely  evaded 
him  until  one  day  when  she  carried  her 
problem  to  the  station  owner,  Fred  Zieg. 
"How  can  I  tell  the  boy  without  hurting 
him,"  she  asked,  "that — with  his  lousy 
grammar  and  nasal  drawl — there  simply 
is  no  future  in  radio  for  him?" 

While  Herb  and  his  band  were  still  at- 
tending Central  High  School,  he  entered 
an  amateur  contest.  The  prize  was  a 
week's  booking  in  the  Berghof?  Gardens, 
the  city's  swankiest  night  club.  Herb 
came  in  second.  The  girl  who  won  was 
another  Central  student  named  Marvel 
Maxwell.  She  later  moved  to  Hollywood 
and  changed  her  first  name  to  Marilyn. 
Years   later,  says  Shriner,   he  understood 


the      choice      that     the      judges      made. 

No  one  ever  tried  to  discourage  Herb 
in  his  drive  to  become  an  entertainer.  On 
the  contrary,  the  friends  he  had  then  in 
Fort  Wayne  are  his  friends  today.  They're 
the  persons  with  whom  he  spends  his  time 
in  Indiana.  One  of  them,  Happy  Herb 
Haworth,  musician-announcer  on  WOWO, 
once  took  him  aside  after  listening  to 
Shriner's  early  monologue  and  said, 
"You're  funny,  boy.  Fairly  funny,  that 
is.  So  why  don't  you  get  somebody  to 
write  you  a  couple  good  scripts  and  go 
out  as  a  single?" 

"I  was  trying  to  tell  him  there  wasn't 
much  future  in  his  mouthharp  band,"  says 
Haworth,  "but  I  really  did  think  he  had 
possibilities  with  his  humor." 

For  a  time,  the  Shriner  band  played  on 
the  Hoosier  Hop,  which  was  aired  on  CBS 
each  week.  Shirley  Wayne — later  a  mem- 
ber of  the  Olsen  and  Johnson  "Hellza- 
poppin'  "  cast  (she  played  a  violin  while 
wearing  boxing  gloves) — was  the  foil  for 
all  his  gags.  "He  tried  them  out  on 
everybody  in  the  place,"  says  Shirley, 
"but  particularly  on  me.  His  biggest 
trouble  was  he  couldn't  stop  talking  when 
he  started.  He  went  cue-blind.  One 
night  he  kept  talking  until  the  network 
cut  in.    That  show  never  was  signed  off!" 

Another  great  friend  of  Herb's  early 
days  was  Jeanne  Brown,  WOWO  staff  or- 
ganist. Jeanne  sensed  his  flair  for  music, 
regardless  of  the  instrument.  She  often 
allowed  him  to  play  the  organ  in  the  Em- 
boyd  Theater  when  she  was  practicing 
in  the  mornings.  Years  later.  Herb  bought 
a  house  near  New  York  City,  just  because 
it  had  a  pipe  organ  in  it.  When  Jeanne 
and  her  husband,  Dr.  Ehner  Bosselman, 
visited  there.  Herb  had  mastered  "Nola" 
right  hand  only — and  was  working  on 
"Wabash  Cannon  Ball." 

His  love  for  pipe  organs  is  genuine — 
and  so  is  his  love  for  old  "classic"  auto- 
mobiles. That's  the  kind  he  always  drove. 
Many  an  out-of-town  show  was  late  in 
starting  because  a  Shriner-conceived 
gadget  to  increase  mileage  had  caused  a 
breakdown.  He  discovered  the  tireless 
tube  in  those  days,  too.  His  tire  casings 
were  as  threadbare  as  his  elbows. 

The  Harmaniacs  had  a  Chicago  phase, 
too,  though  Chicago  doesn't  talk  about  it. 
Members  of  the  group — Eddie  Meadows, 
Dick  Alexander,  Harold  Fritze,  Eldon 
Walker      and      Bud     Landis — piled      into 


My  Mother  Broke  Ur 
My  Marriage. . . 

Listening  to  the  radio  program  "My  True  Story" 
will  not  only  be  interesting  and  exciting  for  yoa, 
bat  sooner  or  later  yoa're  very  likely  to  bear  a 
story  tbat  may  have  some  connection  with  yonr 
life — or  the  life  of  someone  yon  know.  For  these 
are  stories  aboat  real  people,  taken  right  from  the 
files   of  True   Story   Magazine.   Be   sure   to   listen. 

TUNE  IN  EVERY  MORNING  TO 

MY  TRUE  STORY 

American  Broadcasting  Stations 

"I'll  make  them  sorry  now,"  she  vowed.    Read  "Spitfire"  in  March  TRUE  STORY 
magazine,  now  at  all  newsstands. 


74 


Shriner's  wreck  of  the  moment  and  headed 
for  the  big  time.  Herb's  first  concern  was 
the  boys'  individual  appearance.  They 
needed  uniforms,  he  decided. 

He  went  to  the  Gretsch  Instrument 
Company,  and  wangled  an  audience  with 
the  president,  Fred  Gretsch.  The  manu 
facturer  heard  Shriner's  proposition  and 
asked  them  to  play  a  number.  When  the 
Harmaniacs  all  produced  Hohner  instru- 
ments, he  was  delighted  with  their  au 
dacity.  He  didn't  buy  the  uniforms,  but 
he  took  them  all  out  to  dinner  and  later 
got  them  some  appearances  on  Station 
WBBM  which  led  to  a  few  weeks  on  the 
National  Barn  Dance  over  WLS. 

Indiana's  favorite  comedian  always  was 
eager  to  promote  a  legitimate  buck.  He 
knew  a  bargain,  too,  before  it  bit  him, 
For  instance,  one  bleak  winter  in  the  De-; 
pression-ridden  '30's,  he  found  it  coL 
going  on  his  jaunts  to  play  in  Churubusco,| 
Ossian,  Bippus  or  Wawaka,  and  knew  tha 
a  heavy  coat  would  solve  his  problem 

"From  somewhere,  Herb  came  up  with 
an  overcoat,"  one  of  his  fellow  Harmaniacs 
recalls.  "It  was  made  of  horsehide,  and 
he  said  he  got  it  for  thirty-five  cents.  That 
night  we  traveled  to  some  near-by  town 
with  Herb  wearing  his  coat,  a  scarf  tied 
over  his  hat  and  under  his  chin.  He  didn't 
wear  the  coat  very  long.  He  probably 
swapped  it  for  a  used  tire."  (Actually, 
Herb  says  today,  the  coat  belonged  to  his 
grandfather.) 

One  Saturday  afternoon  when  he  had 
finished  his  baked-goods  rounds.  Herb 
and  Bud  Landis  sauntered  into  the  bakery 
operated  by  Eddie  Meadows'  father.  They 
wanted  to  get  warm  and  enjoy  the  smells. 
There,  a  row  of  two  dozen  pies  took 
Shriner's  eye.  He  saw  a  chance  to  do  Mr. 
Meadows  a  favor  and  perhaps  earn  a 
small  commission. 

Taking  Landis  into  his  plans,  Shriner 
and  his  pal  canvassed  the  nearest  apart- 
ment house  taking  orders  for  pies.  They 
sold  them,  too.  Triumphantly,  they  ran 
back  to  the  bakery  with  the  news  and 
some  down  payments.  But  the  pie  case 
now  was  empty.  Herb  had  only  assumed 
the  pies  were  unsold.  But,  when  Mr. 
Meadows  heard  of  their  unsolicited  enter- 
prise, he  shook  his  head  wearily  and 
cranked  out  another  batch  of  pies  to  keep 
the  kids  honest. 

Herb's  love  affair  with  Indiana  is  a  two- 
way  deal.  When  he  talks  about  the  sheriff 
back  home  who  never  lost  an  election 
until  the  day  he  showed  up  sober,  the 
Allen  County,  Indiana  sheriff  chuckles. 
He  knows  Herb  doesn't  mean  anything 
personal — he's  referring  to  the  sheriff  "a 
couple  of  counties  away." 

When  Shriner  returns  to  his  old  home 
town,  he  slips  in  quietly  with  his  pretty 
wife.  Pixie,  and  heads  for  the  Bosselmans' 
country  home.  He  may  fan  out  from 
there  with  an  old  crony  or  two  and  rum- 
mage through  some  country  stores.  The 
passing  of  the  familiar  cheese  knife  and 
flypaper  strips  wounded  his  nostalgic  soul. 

At  the  Bosselman  home.  Herb  sees  all 
his  old  friends,  meets  the  new  neigh- 
bors and  catches  up  on  all  births,  mar- 
riages and  building-razings.  He  scratches 
his  head  and  pulls  his  ear,  whether  he's 
talking  about  his  latest  car  or  his  1928 
Hupmobile. 

On  his  last  visit,  Jeanne  Bosselman 
wanted  to  take  the  Shriners  to  dinner  in 
a  nice  restaurant.  She  let  Herb  choose 
the  spot.  He  selected  a  drive-in  ham- 
burger stand  downtown.  "I'll  never  for- 
get how  good  those  hamburgers  smelled 
when  I  couldn't  afford  one,"  he  said. 

Things  are  different  now,  but  Herb 
himself  hasn't  changed.     As  Mayor  Rob- 


ert  E.  Meyers  says  of  his  illustrious  ex- 
local  taxpayer,  "Citizens  of  Fort  Wayne 
who  have  followed  Herb  Shriner's  rise 
to  stardom  hold  him  in  high  regard  arid 
warm  respect.  I  know — and  I  am  certain 
most  of  them  do,  too— that,  when  he  tells 
a  whimsical  story  about  his  old  home 
town,  he  is  referring  to  everybody's  and 
nobody's  real  home  town.  His  real  home 
town  is  Fort  Wayne,  and  we  are  proud  of 
the  fact." 

Congressman  E.  Ross  Adair,  of  our 
Fourth  Indiana  District,  says  a  final  word 
on  behalf  of  all  Hoosiers  everywhere:  "In 
the  several  times  I  have  met  Herb  Shriner, 
I  have  been  impressed  by  his  easygoing 
friendliness.  It  is  more  than  a  theatrical 
posture;  its  genuineness  is  quite  apparent. 
To  many  of  us,  it  would  seem  to  typify  a 
truly  Hoosier,  warm-hearted  friendliness 
that  would  explain  why  so  many  of  his 
friends  of  yesteryear  are  still  his  friends 
today." 


Herb  Shriner 
Loves  Indiana 


(Continued  from  page  50) 
flatlands  of  Indiana.  It  got  so  as  every- 
body was  either  trying  to  sell  us  some- 
thing or  take  something  away.  In  a  sit- 
uation like  that,  if  you  win  out,  you've  got 
the  laugh  on  the  other  fellow;  if  he  beats 
you,  you  might  as  well  admit  it  and  laugh 
at  yourself.  So  the  idea  has  been  sort  of 
handed  down.  We  appreciate  what  we 
have." 

Herb's  birthplace  was  Toledo,  Ohio.  "I 
wasn't  born  in  Indiana,"  he  explains,  "but 
my  folks  moved  there  soon  as  they  heard 
about  it."  He  was  then  three  years  old. 

They  chose  Fort  Wayne,  a  mid-state  city 
which  then  had  slightly  more  than  100,000 
population.  Today,  industrially  booming, 
it  approaches  150,000.  Its  tree-lined  streets 
are  too  narrow  to  please  a  tourist  fighting 
traffic  to  regain  the  open  highway,  but  its 
sidewalks  are  amply  wide  for  friends  to 
stop  and  pass  the  time  of  day.  Good  con- 
versation is  still  a  Hoosier's  favorite  fun. 

Herb's  father  was  an  engraver  of  stone. 
His  mother  played  piano  and  organ — and, 
in  Herb's  words,  "had  a  habit  of  saying 
things  in  a  funny  way  that  made  her  real 
popular." 

He  cherishes  a  story  of  his  parents'  ro- 
mance. "My  dad  was  a  kind  of  stylish 
guy  and  a  good  dancer.  Besides  that,  he 
was  an  inventor.  Not  a  full-time  inventor, 
you  understand,  but  a  part-time  inventor. 
My  mother  used  to  tell  me  about  one 
thing  he  made.  It  was  an  electric  shoe- 
shiner.  That  was  a  big  thrill,  because  in 
those  days  anything  with  electricity  in  it 
was  like  atomic  power  is  today.  Mother 
thought  the  shoe-shiner  was  pretty  fancy. 
That's  how  she  first  got  stuck  on  him,  I 
guess." 

Although  none  of  these  part-time  in- 
ventions brought  riches,  Herb  holds  a  sin- 
cere respect  for  his  father's  ingenuity,  and 
an  understanding  of  his  place  in  the  world. 

Some  of  the  inventions  were  intensely 
practical.  "Dad  knew  a  lot  about  stone,  so 
he  made  up  different  cements.  Then  the 
biggest  thing  he  had  was  a  portable  de- 
vice for  engraving  on  stone.  He  used  an 
air  blast.  Of  course  others  had  that,  too, 
but  his  was  portable.  He  never  could 
develop  it  to  the  point  where  he  could  sell 
it  and  make  money  on  it,  but  it  sure  was 
useful.  Because  it  was  portable,  he  could 
go  into  a  graveyard  and  cut  the  letters  on 
a  monument  right  there.  It  kept  him 
working  during  the  Depression." 

No  Hoosier  of  that  period,  who  possessed 


here's  the  entire 


Hollywood 


\ 


roar 


The  book 
that  tells  you 
everything  you  wont 
to  know  about 
everyone  in 
Hollywood 


£VER¥   STAR     •     EVERT  STORY     •     IVHIIY  BtAOUHe 


It's  a  dream!  It's  the  new  1957  edi- 
tion of  Photoplay  Annual.  Between  the 
covers  of  this  thrilling  annual  is  the 
entire  Hollywood  year  in  review.  Here's 
everything  about  everybody  who  is 
anybody  in  Hollywood.  This  gorgeous 
yearbook  brings  you  hundreds  of  pic- 
tures ...  all  the  news  and  gossip  of 


Hollywood  .  .  .  plus  exclusive  stories 
about  the  screen's  outstanding  person- 
alities of  the  year.  Here,  too,  are  full- 
page  portraits  in  color  .  .  .  exciting 
candid  shots  .  .  .  thumbnail  sketches 
of  the  rising  young  stars,  and  many 
extra  special  treats.  Photoplay  Annual 
is  enjoyment  unlimited.  Get  yours  now. 


only  50<t  at  all  newsstands  now! 


NEWSDEALER  SOLD  OUT? 


This  is  the  most  wanted  Annual  published. 
Therefore,  it  is  only  natural  that  your 
newsdealer  may  be  sold  out  when  you  call 
to  pick  up  your  copy.  However,  don't  let 
this  worry  you!  You  can  still  obtain  a 
copy  of  this  exciting  Annual  by  mailing 
this  coupon  with  50^ — if  you  act  at  once. 


'  PHOTOPLAY                                        Dept.  WG-357  j 

,  205  E,  42nd  St..  New  York  17.  N.  Y.                    | 

1  Send    me    PHOTOPLAY    ANNUAL    1957. 
1  I  enclose  SOi? 

5  NAME 

■  Please  Print 

1        T 
1         V 

1  STREET 

I         " 

5  CITY STATE 

•7R 

sufficient  mechanical  skill  to  "fold  back  the 
open  ends  of  a  cotter  pin,  could  fail  to 
center  his  best  dreams  around  the  gasoline 
engine.  Shriner,  Sr. — who,  according  to 
Herb,  was  "crazy  about  motorcycles" — for- 
ever sought  a  way  to  make  automobiles 
equally  economical.  "He  had  hard  luck 
with  his  gas-saving  device,"  says  Herb. 
"He  got  it  to  the  point  where  it  was  work- 
ing pretty  good,  so  he  made  up  a  couple 
hundred  by  hand  and  was  ready  to  market 
them  when  the  automobile  manufacturers 
changed  to  down-draft  carburetors  and 
made  them  obsolete." 

Shattering  though  this  was  to  the  fam- 
ily's economy.  Herb,  when  he  now  views 
the  event,  cites  the  law  of  increasing  sen- 
timent which  makes  his  youthful  recollec- 
tion resemble  an  up-dated  Tom  Sawyer. 
"The  further  you  get  from  home,  the  more 
you  forget  the  tough  times  and  remember 
what  was  nice.  As  a  kid,  I  was  exposed 
to  doing  lots  of  things  and  they  have  re- 
mained with  me.  Now  they're  my  hobbies." 

Automobiles  stand  high  on  that  list. 
"Every  kid  in  town  aimed  to  get  to  the 
big  Memorial  Day  race  at  Indianapolis. 
The  Speedway  was  Mecca."  Herb  was  a 
grown  man  before  he  was  able  to  make 
that  enthralling  pilgrimage,  but  a  regular 
Sunday  drive  which  the  family  took  set 
the  stage  for  the  Shriner  collection  of 
classic  cars  and  the  show  of  them  which 
he   once  toured  around  the   country. 

His  own  first  car  was  a  Star,  already  out 
of  production  by  the  time  some  one  gave 
it  to  him.  "I  traded  off  my  bicycle  for  a 
repair  job  to  get  it  to  run."  He  was  then 
fourteen  years  old  and  entitled  to  a  driv- 
er's license.  His  particular  pal  was  Har- 
old Troxell,  now  a  watchmaker  at  Rock- 
ford,  Illinois.  "He  came  fromi  a  whole  fam- 
ily of  watchmakers,"  says  Herb,  "and  that 
guy  could  fix  anything.  The  car  was  a 
real  convertible.  We  had  a  collection  of 
bodies.  We'd  shift  them,  according  to 
what  we  wanted  to  do  and  how  many 
kids  were  going  along.  We  could  make  it 
a  coupe,  a  roadster  or  a  touring  car." 

It  opened  a  new  world  to  explore.  Ear- 
lier, they  had  been  limited  to  hiking  to 
the  confluence  of  Fort  Wayne's  three  riv- 
ers, where — sitting  on  the  high-graded 
railroad  tracks — they  would  watch  and 
wonder  about  the  hobo  jimgle  below.  Or 
they  might  wander  down  to  the  bakery 
operated  by  a  friend's  parents.  "Smelling 
fresh  bread  still  makes  me  feel  good  all 
over,"  says  Herb. 

With  a  car,  they  could  move,  en  masse. 
A  favorite  destination  was  Trier's  amuse- 
ment park.  Herb  had  fun,  but  he  also 
looked,  listened  and  began  banking  ob- 
servations for  his  treasury  of  humor.  He 
recalls,  "This  old  fellow  who  owned  it  was 
a  sort  of  local  P.  T.  Barnum.  Every  Sun- 
day, he'd  be  out  there  in  his  shirt  sleeves, 
barking  for  his  rides  and  games.  At  night, 
he  insisted  on  shooting  off  all  the  fire- 
works, and  I  always  expected  to  see  him 
go  up  with  a  skyrocket  himself." 

From  Trier's  Park  came  some  of  Herb's 
first  monologues.  "I'd  tell  about  the  fel- 
low who  wanted  to  go  into  show  business 
but  as  far  as  he  ever  got  was  operating 
the  air  blower  at  the  fun  house.  Then 
there  was  the  Tunnel  of  Love  where  the 
boats  were  so  leaky  that  each  one  had  a 
bailing  bucket.  You  could  judge  how 
much  smooching  a  guy  had  done  with  his 
girl  according  to  how  much  water  he 
hadn't  bailed  out  of  the  boat  bottom." 

Herb  moizrns  its   ending.    "It  was  sad. 
I  came  home  once  and  found  out  the  roily- 
coaster   had  burned   down.   That  was   the 
J    last    thing    that    worked.    The    park    was 
*    gone,  lock,  stock   and  barrel.    Only  trace 
that  was  left  of  it  was  my  monologues." 

Even    more    entrancing    was    the    radio 
station,  WOWO.  "We'd  got  this  harmonica 
76 


group  together  and  we'd  head  for  there 
soon  as  school  was  out.  That  was  the 
wonderful  period  when  programs  just  hap- 
pened. The  lobby  and  the  hall  would  be 
filled  up  with  entertainers,  then  some  one 
would  pop  his  head  out  of  the  studio  and 
yell,  'Okay,  Herb,  you're  on  for  ten  min- 
utes.' " 

His  first  fan  mail  turned  out  to  be  a 
borrowed  thrill.  "The  girl  gave  me  these 
three  cards.  I  read  them  and  my  head 
started  to  swell.  Then  I  turned  them  over 
and  found  they  really  belonged  to  Herb 
Haworth.  He  was  'Happy  Herb'  and  I  was 
'Harmonica  Herb.' " 

Herb  and  his  Harmaniacs  were  ambi- 
tious. "From  local  dates,  we  went  on  to 
Chicago  and  made  a  stab  at  it.  Then  we 
came  home  and  regrouped.  I  went  to 
Detroit  as  a  single.  The  other  fellows' 
folks  made  them  go  to  work." 

The  acid  test  of  Herb's  Hoosier  humor 
came  during  a  tour  of  Australia.  "No- 
body there  knew  where  Indiana  was,  ex- 
cept it  was  in  the  United  States.  So  I 
just  changed  my  jokes  to  Queensland  and 
they  were  good  as  ever.  Name  a  place 
where  people  have  got  that  pioneer  inde- 
pendence and  you'll  find  they  laugh  at  the 
same  things." 

At  the  end  of  World  War  II,  Herb  made 
his  bid  for  New  York,  Indiana-style.  "I 
got  discharged  from  the  Army  at  Fort  Lee, 
Virginia,  so  I  loaded  all  my  belongings  on 
a  motorcycle  and  headed  up  coast  to  see 
my  agent." 

His  first  big  booking  into  the  Roxy  The- 
ater brought  two  important  introductions 
— to  Pixie  and  to  The  Sons  of  Indiana. 

Herb,  who  roomed  out  on  Long  Island, 
parked  his  motorcycle  at  the  stage  door. 
Red-headed  Pixie,  a  dancer  in  the  show, 
was  fascinated.  "She'd  been  bom  in  a 
Chicago  suburb,"  says  Herb,  "and  she  was 
living  in  a  theatrical  hotel  and  she'd  get 
feeling  shut  in,  same  as  I  would,  so  we'd 
go  whooping  all  over  on  my  motorcycle." 

Ihe  Sons  of  Indiana  is  a  New  York  or- 
ganization. The  foreword  to  their  mem- 
bership roster  states,  "It's  true  that  guys 
from  Indiana  invariably  like  otitier  guys 
from  Indiana.  No  matter  if  they've  risen 
to  be  presidents  of  something  (vice  pres- 
idents, more  often)  .  .  .  you've  had  your 
moments  of  loneliness  here — of  rootless- 
ness  where  there  are  no  roots— of  wanting 
to  talk  with  some  one  who  knew  what  a 
paw-paw  was,  how  it  felt  to  steal  along 
the  crick  hunting  muskrats  or  through  an 
October  wood  for  persimmons;  you've  had 
a  hankering  for  'folks'  again  .  .  ." 

Herb  will  never  forget  their  first  invi- 
tation to  a  party.  "It  wasn't  so  much 
meeting  influential  guys  like  Wendell 
Wilkie,  General  Bedell  Smith,  and  Olsen 
and  Johnson,  but  here  was  the  same  kind 
of  guys  I  had  known  at  sixteen  at  home." 

He  broke  out  his  best  stories  and  he  has 
seldom  missed  an  annual  meeting  since. 
Verne  Boxell  recalls  that,  when  he  was 
president,  Herb  was  ill.  Says  Verne,  "He 
went  so  far  as  to  have  his  doctor  call  me 
to  say  Herb  had  virus  and  a  roaring  fever 
and  had  to  stay  in  bed." 

Carl  Helm,  editor  of  the  industrial  press 
service  of  the  National  Association  of 
Manufacturers,  tells  what  the  Sons  think 
of  Herb.  "When  his  motion  picture,  'Main 
Street  to  Broadway,'  opened,  we  thought 
that  was  our  chance  to  do  something  for 
Herb.  So  we  staged  a  good  old  Hoosier 
hayride. 

Herb  recalls  it  with  sentiment.  "Here 
were  all  these  big  guys  and  their  wives,  in 
full  evening  dress.  They  climbed  into  the 
haywagons  at  the  Plaza  hotel  on  Fifth 
Avenue  and  we  paraded  over  to  Broadway 
and  down  to  the  theater.  It  sure  was  some- 
thing. 

He    also    "feels   good"    because    in    1955 


they  named  him  "Hoosier  of  the  Year," 
and,  for  the  second  time  in  their  history, 
stretched  a  point  to  "adopt"  a  Hoosier — 
Herb's  public  relations  man,  New  Yorker 
Howard  Weissman. 

Herb  has  set  up  his  own  bit  of  Indiana 
near  New  Rochelle,  New  York.  Pixie — 
who  discovered  during  their  courtship  that 
it  was  "Love  me,  love  my  state" — shares 
his  wish  that  their  children  have  the  same 
freedom  to  know  their  neighbors,  the 
same  opportunity  to  explore  the  outdoors, 
the  same  sort  of  projects  and  pets  and 
hobbies  that  Herb  had  as  a  child.  That 
sprite,  Indy  (named  for  you  know  what) 
is  now  going  on  six.  The  twins,  Kin  and 
Wil  (named  for  Hoosier  humorist  Kin 
Hubbard  and  that  other  homespun  guy 
from  further  west,  Will  Rogers)  are  lively 
three-year-olds.  They  have  cats  and  a 
dog  and,  for  a  time,  had  a  mallard  duck, 
sent  by  an  old  friend.  "People  back  home 
don't  forget,"  says  Herb.  "When  that  show 
duck  of  mine,  the  one  that  ate  spaghetti, 
got  kiUed  by  a  neighbor's  dog,  darned  if 
Mr.  Rarick  didn't  send  me  the  mallard. 
And  I  hadn't  seen  him  since  he  was  enter- 
tainment chairman  for  the  Eagles  at  War- 
saw, Indiana,  and  hired  us  for  the  very 
first  show  we  ever  got  paid  for." 

As  soon  as  the  children  are  old  enough 
to  understand.  Herb  plans  to  take  them 
back  and  "go  over  the  whole  state  of 
Indiana  with  a  fine  tooth  comb."  He  says, 
"I  want  them  to  see  the  old  things  that 
are  left,  like  a  covered  bridge.  Maybe* 
we'll  be  lucky  like  I  was  last  summer  at 
a  little  lake  that's  so  shallow  a  life  guard 
would  have  to  wear  hip  boots.  A  family 
was  fishing.  The  man  was  sitting  with 
the  fish  pole  and  the  woman  was  rowing. 
The  boat  was  covered  with  moss  three 
inches  thick  and  the  oars  dripped  with  it. 
The  woman  wore  one  of  those  big  petal 
sunbonnets  I  hadn't  seen  since  I  was  a 
kid.  That's  what  I  mean  by  being  your- 
self— they  were  doing  what  they  wanted 
to  do,  the  way  they  wanted  to  do  it." 

He  expects  to  see  change.  "Indiana  is 
no  museum;  it's  a  very  progressive  state. 
But  kids  there  are  having  their  own  kind 
of  fun,  same  as  we  had.  Last  summer, 
out  of  MacMillan  Park,  a  man  who  is  soy- 
bean king  of  the  section  was  entertaining 
everybody.  They  had  ten  thousand  pieces 
of  fried  chicken  all  ready  to  serve  to  ten 
thousand  people.  Now  some  kid  is  going 
to  remember  that,  same  way  as  I  remem- 
ber our  amusement  park." 

Herb  takes  issue  with  the  lost  cry  of 
another  stone-cutter's  son,  the  late,  great 
novelist  Thomas  Wolfe,  who  mourned, 
"You  can't  go  home  again." 

Says  Herb,  "I  haven't  found  it  that  way. 
In  Indiana,  there  was  room  to  grow  up 
and  there's  room  to  go  back.  My  parents 
are  dead,  but  these  people  are  my  folks." 

He  runs  a  list  which  sounds  like  a 
goodly  portion  of  the  Fort  Wayne  city 
directory,  and  speaks  particularly  of  his 
Harmaniacs  and  those  of  WOWO  who 
gave  him  his  start  on  the  Hoosier  Hop. 

"Herb  Haworth  hasn't  changed,"  says 
Herb  Shriner.  "He's  almost  blind  now, 
and  I'm  sure  sorry  about  that,  but  he's 
still  independent  enough  to  wear  a  straw 
hat  in  winter  if  he  feels  like  it.  He  can 
run  a  disc-jockey  show  from  memory  and 
get  just  as  many  laughs  as  he  ever  did. 
I  can  walk  into  Jeanne  Brown  Bosselmann's 
kitchen  and  raid  the  ice-box  any  day  or 
stroll  into  Dorothy  Durbin's  office  and 
say,  'You  got  a  booking  for  me?'  They're 
friends.  They're  happy  people  who  have 
good,  full  lives  of  their  own.  And  when 
our  paths  cross,  whether  it's  in  Indiana 
or  New  York,  we're  glad  to  see  each  other. 
As  you  get  older  and  home  seems  further 
away,  it's  a  real  nice  feeling  to  know  you 
have  a  place  where  you  really  belong." 


Lady  in  Luck 

(Continued  from  page  40) 
brothers  and  sisters  back  in  Long  Beach, 
California.      A    talented    performer,    yes. 
But  she's  a  person,  first  of  all. 

"Erin  has  beauty  and  a  pure,  sweet 
voice,"  as  Steve  Allen  puts  it.  "But  her 
chief  attraction,  I  believe,  is  her  old- 
fashioned  simplicity  and  charm.  From 
the  very  first — when  we  discovered  her  in 
our  studio  audience,  one  night  shortly 
after  she  had  been  a  winner  on  Arthur 
Godfrey's  Talent  Scouts — our  audience  evi- 
denced a  great  interest  in  her." 

That  was  the  night  the  lightning  struck. 
To  Erin,  winning  on  Talent  Scouts  had 
been  breathtaking  enough,  but  this  was 
like  something  in  a  wild,  impossible 
dream — "I  really  and  truly  didn't  believe 
it  was  happening!"  Only  ten  days  before, 
she  had  left  California  for  a  week's  en- 
gagement on  Godfrey's  morning  show,  her 
prize  for  winning  on  Talent  Scouts.  Now 
the  week  was  over  and  she  was  ready  to 
go  home.  Visiting  the  Steve  Allen  To- 
night show,  which  she  had  often  watched 
on  the  Coast,  seemed  like  a  fine  way  to 
spend  one  of  her  last  evenings  in  New 
York.  She  had,  of  course,  never  met  or 
talked  to  Steve  before.  Her  only  personal 
contact  with  his  program  was  a  casual 
phone  call  from  a  staff  member  who  had 
watched  her  on  the  Godfrey  show  and 
now  asked  her  if  she'd  care  to  sit  in  the 
studio  audience  on  that  Friday  night. 

In  her  heart,  Erin  may  have  hoped  that 
Steve  might  stop  to  talk  to  her,  in  one  of 
his  audience  interviews — but  she  was  sure 
she'd  "collapse  from  embarrassment!"  In 
fact,  she  almost  did,  when  Steve  stopped, 
asked  her  name,  and  then  queried:  "Aren't 
you  a  Talent  Scout  winner?" 

"Everyone  applauded  at  that,"  Erin  re- 
calls, "and  Steve  asked  me  to  stand,  so 
the  audience  could  see  me.  Of  course,  I 
proceeded  to  drop  my  purse  and  gloves — 
and  everjrthing  else  I  was  carrying — as  I 
got  up.  Well,  everyone  really  applauded 
then  and  'oohed  and  'ahed,'  and  Steve 
pointed  to  the  television  monitor  in  the 
studio  and  said,  'Just  look  at  that  picture.' 
It  was  really  embarrassing." 

Then  Steve  asked  if  she'd  sing  a  little 
of  the  song  with  which  she  had  won  on 
Talent  Scouts.  So,  with  Skitch  Hender- 
son's orchestra  playing  an  impromptu  ac- 
companiment, Erin  stood  there  and,  in 
her  clear,  gentle  voice,  sang  about  half 
a  chorus  of  "Only  a  Rose,"  a  tender,  senti- 
mental song  from  a  bygone  operetta. 

When  she  stopped,  the  applause  really 
rang  out,  and  Steve  Allen  was  beaming. 
"I  don't  think  we  should  let  this  young 
lady  go  back  to  California  without  appear- 
ing on  our  show,"  he  said  to  the  audience, 
and  the  applause  started  again. 

That  was  a  Friday  night,  and  Erin  sang 
on  Tonight  the  next  Monday.  On  Wed- 
nesday morning,  she  got  another  call. 
Could  she  possibly  go  on  again  that  night? 
One  of  the  singers  was  ill. 

"So,"  says  Erin,  "I  washed  my  hair  and 
went  on." 

From  then  on,  the  snowball  kept  rolling 
and  getting  bigger.  The  studio  audience 
had  loved  Erin;  the  television  audience 
loved  her  and  sent  in  unusual  amounts  of 
fan  letters  to  tell  her  and  Steve  Allen 
about  it.  On  September  30th,  he  put  her 
on  his  big  Sunday-night  program  for  the 
first  time.  She  sang  Noel  Coward's  beau- 
tiful "I'll  See  You  Again,"  and  this  time  the 
fan  mail  was  a  regular  avalanche. 

"It  was  terribly  confusing,"  she  says, 
"and  I  really  was  lost  for  a  while — until 
I  got  this."  And  she  takes  a  fat,  red  ap- 
pointment book  out  of  her  handbag. 
"Everyone  kids  me  about  it,  but  I  never 
go  anjrwhere  without  this  little  book. 
My  whole  life  is  in  it." 


NEW 


Star 
Candids 


CANDIDS 


1 .  Lana  Turner 

2.  Betty  Grable 

3 .  Ava  Gardner 

5 .  Alan  Ladd 

6.  Tyrone  Power 

7.  Gregory  Peck 
9.  Esther  Williams 

1 1 .  Elizabeth  Taylor 

14.  Cornel  Wilde 

15.  Frank  Sinatra 

18.  Rory  Calhoun 

19.  Peter  Lawford 

21.  Bob  Mitch um 

22.  Burt  Lancaster 

23.  Bing  Crosby 
25.  Dale  Evans 
27.  June  Allyson 

33.  Gene  Autry 

34.  Roy  Rogers 

35.  Sunset  Carson 

50.  Diana  Lynn 

51.  Doris  Day 

52.  Montgomery  Clift 

53.  Richard  Widmark 

56.  Perry  Como 

57.  Bill  Holden 

66.  Gordon  MacRae 

67.  Ann  Blyth 

68.  Jeanne  Crain 

69.  Jane  Russell 
74.  John  Wayne 
78.  Audie  Murphy 
84.  Janet  Leigh 
86.  Farley  Granger 

91.  John  Derek 

92.  Guy  Madison 
94.  Mario  Lanza 


103.  Scott  Brady 

105.  Vic  Damone 

106.  Shelley  Winters 

107.  Richard  Todd 

109.  Dean  Martin 

110.  Jerry  Lewis 
112.  Susan  Hayward 
117.  Terry  Moore 
121.  Tony  Curtis 
124.  Gail  Davis 

127.  Piper  Laurie 

128.  Debbie  Reynolds 

135.  Jeff  Chandler 

136.  Rock  Hudson 

137.  Stewart  Granger 

139.  Debra  Paget 

140.  Dale  Robertson 

141.  Marilyn  Monroe 

142.  Leslie  Caron 

143.  Pier  Angeli 

144.  Mitzi  Gaynor 

145.  Marlon  Brando 

146.  Aldo  Ray 

147.  Tab  Hunter 

148.  Robert  Wagner 

149.  Russ  Tamblyn 

150.  Jeff  Hunter 

152.  Marge  and  Gow- 
er  Champion 

174.  Rita  Gam 

175.  Charlton  Heston 

176.  Steve  Cochran 

177.  Richard  Burton 

179.  Julius  La  Rosa 

180.  Lucile  Ball 
182.  Jack  Webb 
185.  Richard  Egan 


187.  Jeff  Richards 

190.  Pat  Crowley 

191.  Robert  Taylor 

192.  Jean  Simmons 
194.  Audrey  Hepburn 
198.  Gale  Storm 
202.  George  Nader 
205.  Ann  Sothern 
207.  Eddie  Fisher 
209.  Liberace 

211.  Bob  Francis 

212.  Grace  Kelly 

213.  James  Dean 

214.  Sheree  North 

215.  Kim  Novak 

216.  Richard  Davalos 

218.  Eva  Marie  Saint 

219.  Natalie  Wood 

220.  Dewey  Martin 

221.  Joan  Collins 

222.  Jayne  Mansfield 

223.  Sal  Mineo 

224.  Shirley  Jones 


225.  Elvis  Presley 

226.  Victoria  Shaw 

227.  Tony  Perkins 

228.  Clint  Walker 

229.  Pat  Boone 

230.  Paul  Newman 

231.  Don  Murray 

232.  Don  Cherry 

233.  Pat  Wayne 

234.  Carroll  Baker 

235.  Anita  Ekberg 

236.  Corey  Allen 

237.  Dana  Wynter 

238.  Diana  Dors 

239.  Judy  Busch 

240.  Patti  Page 

241.  Lawrence  Welk 

242.  Alice  Lon 

243.  Larry  Dean 

244.  Buddy  Merrill 

245.  Hugh  O'Brian 

246.  Jim  Arness 

247.  Sanford  Clark 


FILL    IN    AND    MAIL 
COUPON  TODAY! 


WORLD   WIDE,    DEPT.  WG-3-57 
1 12   Main  St.,  Ossining,   N.  Y. 

I  enclose  $ for    candid 

pictures  of  my  favorite  stars  and  have  circled 
the  numbers  of  the  ones  you  are  to  send  me 
by  return  mail. 

NAME 

STREET 

CITY 

ZONE...  .    STATE 

Fill  out  and  mail  coupon  today.  Send  cash 
or  money  order.  12  pictures  for  $1 ;  6  for  50c. 


77 


But  not  all  the  problems  could  be  solved 
that  easily.  There  was,  for  instance,  the 
problem  of  what  to  do  about  the  differ- 
ent offers  which  were  being  made  to  her. 
There  were  offers  of  recordings,  modeling 
jobs,  television  commercials,  night-club 
engagements,  movie  tests,  even  a  Broad- 
way musical.  Erin  just  didn't  know 
where  to  turn.  She  realized  how  easy  it 
would  be  to  make  a  bad  mistake.  And 
then  she  had  another  stroke  of  luck. 

"I  met  someone  who  knew  one  of  the 
best  theatrical  managment  firms  in  the 
business,  and  I  signed  with  them.  They 
advised  me  on  how  to  handle  all  these 
career  details,  and  they  know  the  score." 

No  manager,  however,  could  help  with 
the  number-one  problem  which  sudden 
success  had  brought  to  Erin  O'Brien:  "I 
was  so  lonesome  for  my  family  I  jvist 
thought  I'd  have  to  give  the  whole  thing 
up.  When  I  had  left  home,  I  thought  I 
was  just  going  away  for  a  week." 

She  knew  that  Pat  and  Greg  were  per- 
fectly weU  and  happy  at  her  mother's 
bustling  household,  but  that  didn't  keep 
her  from  missing  them.  "They  were  hav- 
ing the  time  of  their  lives,"  Erin  says. 
"Mother  has  a  huge  yard  with  every  kind 
of  equipment  in  it,  and  they  had  the 
little  ones  at  home  to  play  with  and  the 
older  ones  to  make  a  fuss  over  them.  It 
was  just  like  a  big  party  for  them.  But 
it  was  awful  lonesome  for  me." 

Actually,  this  was  the  first  time  that 
Erin  had  ever  been  alone  in  her  life,  and 
it  was  the  first  time  she  and  Jimmy  had 
been  separated  in  their  six  years  of  mar- 
riage. They  had  always  been  very  close. 
"People  usually  think  we're  newlyweds," 
Erin  says. 

She  spoke  to  California  every  day. 
Finally,  when  she'd  been  away  a  little 
over  three  weeks,  she  was  talking  to 
Jimmy  over  the  phone  and  just  couldn't 
conceal  the  tears  in  her  voice.  Two  days 
later,  at  five  o'clock  in  the  morning,  the 
telephone  rang  in  her  hotel  room. 

"Hello,  baby,"  said  Jimmy's  voice.  Tired 
and  lonely,  she  thought  it  was  just  an- 
other long-distance  call — until  suddenly, 
there  was  a  knock  on  her  door.  And  there 
stood  Jimmy,  who  had  made  last-minute 
arrangements  and  had  flown  in! 

For  a  month  after  that.  New  York 
looked  a  lot  different,  because  they  were 
together.  At  the  end  of  October,  he  had 
to  go  back,  but  it  was  firmly  agreed  that 
she  would  come  home  for  Thanksgiving. 
Then,  as  Thanksgiving  drew  closer,  Erin 
saw  that  it  was  going  to  be  impossible. 

"I  was  heartbroken,"  she  says,  "and  I 
knew  that  Jimmy  was  going  to  be.  But  I 
had  to  make  up  my  mind:  Either  I  was 
going  to  do  my  best  to  make  good,  or  I 
wasn't.  I  was  sure  he'd  understand,  be- 
cause we'd  talked  it  all  through." 

Still,  it  was  a  pretty  bad  moment  when 
Erin  told  Jimmy  over  the  phone  that  she 
wasn't  coming  home  and  heard  him  say 
"okay"  in  a  funny  voice.  "I  didn't  know 
it  then,"  Erin  says,  "but  he  had  already 
made  up  his  mind  what  he  would  do." 

What  he  did  was  come  back  to  New 
York.  And  both  Erin  and  Jimmy  had 
Thanksgiving  Dinner  at  the  Steve  Aliens'! 

This    time,    Jimmy    had    come    to    stay. 
They   would   find   a   furnished   apartment, 
then  send  for  the  boys  when  the  O'Brien- 
Fitzgerald  careers  were  firmly  established 
— for    Jimmy    was    also    going    to    follow 
through   on  his   own   career   as   a   singer, 
here  in  New  York.     The  main  point  was 
that  they  were  going  to  be  together  and 
be  a  family  again. 
T        Doing   things    in   the    right   way,    doing 
V    them  as  well  as  you  can — this,  is  an  atti- 
H    tude    which   has    influenced    Erin    all    her 
life.      "It's    a    feeling    I    was    brought    up 
with   and   I'm   sure   I'll   never   lose,"   Erin 
says.     "I   guess   you    could    call    it   being 
78 


a  perfectionist.  My  mother  is  like  that, 
and  I  only  hope  I  can  manage  my  life 
as  well  as  she  has." 

There  are  thirteen  brothers  and  sis- 
ters, ranging  from  two  years  to  twenty, 
at  home  in  the  big  house  at  Long  Beach 
now.  They're  a  busy,  close-knit  brood 
and  "the  best  behaved  bvmch  of  yoimg- 
sters  you'd  want  to  see." 

"Mother  has  an  awful  lot  of  work  to 
do,"  Erin  explains.  "She  puts  out  about 
eight  laundries  every  day.  But  she  still 
is  able  to  give  each  one  of  the  children 
her  love  and  attention."  Everything  is 
organized  and  works  on  a  system.  Each 
of  the  children  has  certain  chores  to  do 
each  day,  and  when  Erin  was  at  home  she 
had  even  more  responsibility  than  the 
others  because  she  was  the  eldest. 

From  the  beginning,  Erin  was  very 
pretty  and  very  talented.  From  the  time 
she  was  about  four  until  she  was  thir- 
teen, her  parents  sent  her  to  a  children's 
dance  studio  in  Long  Beach.  She  had  a 
big,  clear  singing  voice,  and,  when  the 
school  put  on  programs,  Erin  not  only 
danced  with  the  rest  but  was  always  given 
something  to  sing.  People  started  to  say 
that  her  voice  might  be  good  enough  for 
opera.  "After  a  while.  Mom  decided  that 
tihe  only  right  thing  to  do  was  to  give  me 
serious  vocal  training." 

On  Erin's  eleventh  birthday,  her  mother 
and  Dad  had  a  surprise  for  her.  She 
was  going  to  have  lessons  from  a  famous 
singing  coach.  Maestro  Segurola,  the  same 
teacher  who  had  trained  Deanna  Durbin. 
Erin  remained  with  him  for  a  year,  study- 
ing classical  songs  and  operatic  arias.  And 
that  is  the  only  formal  voice  training 
she's  ever  had.  After  a  year,  her  par- 
ents simply  couldn't  afford  it  any  longer. 
"Dad  has  always  provided  very  well  for 
the  family  on  his  salary  as  a  wholesale 
milkman,  but  paying  for  expensive  vocal 
lessons  was  just  a  little  too  much." 

After  that,  Erin  didn't  study  anymore, 
but  she  did  a  good  deal  of  singing  at 
local  gatherings  and  for  women's  clubs 
and  organizations.  Then,  when  she  was 
about  sixteen,  she  was  asked  to  sing  on 
the  Al  Jarvis  television  program,  a  five 
hour,  five-day-a-week  show  on  a  Los  An- 
geles station.  It  was  to  be  a  three-week 
engagement,  but,  when  the  three  weeks 
were  up,  Erin  was  asked  if  she'd  sign  ,a 
seven-year  contract. 

"Mother  and  Dad  did  a  lot  of  thinking 
and  a  lot  of  talking  with  my  teachers  at  St. 
Anthony's,"  she  says,  "and  finally  they 
decided  that  I  could  do  it.  Fortunately,  I 
had  already  taken  all  the  credits  I  needed, 
and  I  would  only  have  to  go  to  school 
for  English  and  Religion." 

As  it  turned  out,  Erin  was  with  the 
show  for  only  three  years  of  the  seven. 
During  that  time,  she  became  a  popular 
personality  among  Los  Angeles  TV  view- 
ers, receiving  almost  two  hundred  fan 
letters  a  week.  She  sang  a  lot  of  Irish 
melodies,  of  course,  but  also  just  about 
every  other  kind,  too. 

And  during  that  time  another  develop- 
ment took  place.  Erin  had  been  on  the 
show  for  about  six  months  when  a  young 
fellow  named  James  Fitzgerald  turned  up 
as  a  guest  performer  one  day.  "I  thought 
he  was  very  nice  and  very  good-looking," 
she  smiles,  "and  when  he  asked  me  for 
a  date — well,  I  was  up  in  the  sky." 

There  was  only  one  trouble.  Erin  didn't 
go  out  on  dates.  She  didn't  have  time 
because  she  was  working  so  hard.  And, 
besides  that,  her  parents  didn't  want  her 
to.  "They've  relaxed  a  lot  since  then, 
with  the  younger  children.  But,  remem- 
ber, I  was  the  eldest.  I  was  sixteen  and 
they  thought  I  could  wait  a  while." 

Besides  that,  Erin's  father  declared,  if 
she  were  to  go  out  on  dates,  it  wasn't 
gomg  to  be  with  "some  Hollywood  char- 


acter." When  Erin  told  him  that  Jimmy 
wasn't  "some  Hollywood  character"  at  all, 
but  a  boy  from  Long  Beach  who  went  to 
the  local  high  school,  he  still  wasn't  con- 
vinced. 

Then,  as  he  has  a  habit  of  doing,  Jimmy 
took  matters  into  his  own  hands.  There 
was  a  get-together  taking  place  at  St. 
Anthony's.  Erin  was  going  to  sing  and 
her  parents  were  to  act  as  hosts.  Jimmy 
went  there,  introduced  himself  and,  when 
the  party  was  over,  drove  Erin  and  her 
parents  home  in  his  car. 

"He  won  Dad  over  completely,"  Erin 
recalls,  "and  after  that  we  started  to  go 
out." 

Six  months  later,  when  Erin  had  just 
turned  seventeen,  they  were  married.  They  i 
moved  into  a  furnished  room  near  the 
studio,  because  Erin  was  staying  on  with 
the  Jarvis  show.  She  meant  to  have  a 
career  if  she  could,  and  Jimmy  was  all 
for  it.  Who  knows? — they  might  even 
be  able  to  team  up  together  they  thought. 
James  Patrick  came  along  when  they'd 
been  married  about  a  year,  and  Erin  re- 
mained with  the  show  for  almost  a  year 
more.     Then  she  gave  it  up. 

"But  I  still  wasn't  sure  whether  to  fol- 
low through  with  a  career  or  not,"  she 
says.  "That  old  perfectionist  streak  kept 
insisting,  If  you've  started  something,  you 
should  do  your  best  to  do  it  right." 

At  about  that  time,  "John  Brown's  Body" 
was  being  readied  for  a  nation-wide  tour, 
with  Tyrone  Power  and  Anne  Baxter, 
and  they  were  looking  for  singers  for  the 
choral  group  that  provided  background 
music.  Jimmy  and  Erin  decided  to  try 
for  it.  "We  thought  it  would  be  so  won-  i 
derful  to  work  together,"  she  explains.  ' 
"And  the  play  would  be  good  experience, 
too.  We  knew  that  Jimmy's  mother  would 
be  glad  to  take  care  of  little  Pat." 

Both  of  them  were  accepted  and,  for 
the  next  six  months,  they  had  a  marvelous 
time  traveling  throughout  the  United  i 
States.  Neither  of  them  had  been  out  of 
California  before.  Neither  of  them  had 
ever  seen  snow.  Now  they  saw  the 
whole  coimtry. 

That  was  in  1953.  It  was  the  last  time  i 
Erin  worked,  until  the  summer  of  '56.  \ 
When  they  returned  to  California,  she 
became  pregnant.  Little  Greg  was  born 
and  she  settled  down  to  being  a  house- 
wife. She  and  Jimmy  found  a  beautiful 
apartment  in  North  Hollywood,  and  they 
began  furnishing  it  slowly. 

She  had  put  a  career  out  of  her  mind, 
and  she  was  content  to  put  it  out  of  her 
mind.  "I  decided  I  would  be  a  homemaker 
and  a  good  mother,  and  that's  what  I  was." 

It  was,  in  fact,  a  very  pleasant  life.  Like 
many  Hollywood  apartment  developments, 
theirs  has  a  swimming  pool  on  the 
grounds,  and  Erin  and  the  boys  prac- 
tically lived  there.  She  did  her  house- 
work in  the  morning,  while  the  children 
watched  television.  By  ten  or  ten-thirty, 
she  was  usually  finished  and  they  were 
ready  to  go  swimming.  When  Jimmy  came 
home,  he'd  play  with  Pat  and  Greg  while 
she  fixed  dinner,  and  then  they'd  work 
together  to  do  the  dishes  and  put  the  boys 
to  sleep. 

Then,  one  evening  late  last  Jime,  Erin 
and  Jimmy  decided  to  eat  dinner  out.  As 
on  many  an  occasion  before,  they  put  Pat 
and  Greg  in  the  car  and  took  off  for 
a    drive-in    restaurant    which    caters    to 


musical  revue  that's  being  put  on  at  the 
Los  PalmOS  Little  Theater?" 

What  did  she  think?  Well,  what  did 
Jimmy  think?  "I  think  it's  a  great  idea," 
he  said.  "One  of  your  sisters  could  come 
over  and  help  with  the  children.  You  go 
ahead." 

The  revue  continued  through  July  and 
August.  Before  it  was  to  close,  toward 
the  end  of  August,  Erin  started  hearing 
from  other  members  of  the  cast  about  au- 
iitions  for  Arthur  Godfrey's  Talent  Scouts. 
Godfrey  himself  was  on  vacation,  and  Bob 
Crosby  was  going  to  do  the  program  from 
the  Coast  for  three  weeks.  Well,  there 
was  no  reason  not  to  try  out,  so  Erin  did. 

"I  auditioned  once,  and  they  called  me 
back,"  she  says.  "So  I  auditioned  a  second 
time.  Then  there  was  a  third  audition. 
By  that  time,  I  was  really  excited.  It 
would  be  great  just  to  be  on  the  show.  It 
never  occurred  to  me  that  I  might  win." 

When  the  show  was  being  prepared  and 
the  contestants  were  asked  what  num- 
bers they  would  perform,  Erin  said  she 
wanted  to  sing  Cole  Porter's  "In  the  Still 
of  the  Night,"  which  she  has  always  loved. 
"To  my  surprise.  Bob  Crosby  advised  me 
not  to.  He  said  that  what  I  should  aim 
at  was  a  response  from  the  studio  au- 
dience, and  that  it  would  be  much 
smarter  to  sing  a  song  which  was  simpler 
and  more  direct." 

Erin  took  Bob's  advice  to  sing  something 
simple  and  decided  to  sing  "Only  a  Rose." 
Her  sister  Sheila  acted  as  her  talent  scout 
and,  according  to  Erin,  had  a  lot  to  do 
with  her  winning — "She  was  so  sweet  and 
charming."  Erin  sang  her  song.  The  au- 
dience registered  its  applause,  and  Erin 
was  the  winner,  which  meant  heading 
straight  for  New  York  and  a  week's  en- 
gagement on  Godfrey's  morning  show. 

"You  can  imagine  the  commotion!"  she 
recalls.  "I  was  completely  unprepared. 
I  hadn't  packed.  I  wasn't  even  sure  where 
my  suitcase  was.  And,  frankly,  I  had 
exactly  one  good  dress  to  my  name." 

The  program  was  done  at  5:30  P.M.  in 
the  studio,  then  a  kinescope  recording 
was  sent  out  over  the  network  at  8:30. 
Erin  dashed  home,  straightened  up  what 
she  could  there,  threw  some  things  in  a 
suitcase,  watched  the  program,  and  raced 
for  International  Airport,  where  the  plane 
was  to  leave  at  10:30.  In  the  meanwhile, 
her  sister  Sheila  and  her  parents  hurried 
back  to  Long  Beach,  where  Sheila  packed 
all  the  best  clothes  in  the  house  in  one 
suitcase,  and  Erin's  mother  put  cosmetics 
and  toiletries  in  another. 

"We  met  at  the  airport,"  Erin  laughs, 
"rushed  into  the  ladies'  room  and  repacked 
everything  neatly  in  my  bag!  Then  I  kissed 
everyone  goddbye  and  was  off.  I  thought 
I'd  be  back  the  next  week." 

So  Cinderella  went  to  the  ball.  But 
she  didn't  have  to  leave  at  midnight,  after 
all.  The  spell  never  seemed  to  wear  off. 
To  Erin  O'Brien,  success  came  like  the 
touch  of  a  magic  wand — suddenly,  without 
effort,  as  though  this  were  something  which 
simply  was  meant  to  be. 

But  it  woiildn't  continue  without  effort. 
This  Erin  knows.  "Now  that  this  has 
happened,  it's  up  to  me  to  do  something 
about  it,"  she  says.  And  then  she  adds, 
"But  if  I  wind  up  back  home  again,  just 
taking  care  of  my  house  and  children — 
why,  that  will  be  pretty  good,  too."  And 
you  are  very  sure  that  Erin  really  means 
it.  Because,  as  Steve  Allen  so  often  has 
said  about  her,  Erin  is  indeed  "a  sweet, 
old-fashioned  girl." 

MAMA'S  BACK! 

To  renew  acquaintances  with  the  Han- 
sens  of  San  Francisco,  be  sure  to  read 
APRIL  TV  RADIO  MIRROR 
on  sale  March  7 


"TycbS^  WEIGHT . . .  The  Killer! 

*i;;r'Srontr^.wer«iss  «.•,««  .n-  EARLY  «ATH. 


i»i'<W«»g<C» 


NOW 


LOSE  FATTY  WEIGHT 
WITHOUT  INJURING 
VITAL  BODY  TISSUES 

Make  No  Mistake — If  you  are  exces- 
sively overweight  you  are  endangering 
your  normal  life  span,  and  according 
to  medical  science  you'd  better  LOSE 
EXCESS  FAT  QUICKLY!  In  his  book, 
"SLENDERIZING  for  New  Beauty". 
Dr.  Munro  shows  you  the  real  danger 
in  FATTY  WEIGHT  and  how  you 
can  REDUCE  INCHES  FAST!  Flabby, 
excess  fat  harms  you  when  it  is  de- 
posited as  cholesterol  in  the  arteries. 
Medical  authorities  state  that  a  steady 
build-up  of  this  substance  may  cause 
premature  aging  and  perhaps  death. 
Dr.  Munro's  book  tells  you  step-by- 
step  how  to  lose  this  threatening  fat 
and  to  LOSE  WEIGHT  SAFELY! 
BEST  OF  ALL  — by  following  the 
principles  in  this  book  you  can  revital- 
ize your  system  while  you  are  actually 
reducing.  Youll  LOSE  WEIGHT  — 
LOSE  INCHES! 


CAUTION 

Reducing  may  be  harm- 
ful if  you  don't  lose 
flabby  fat  with  it-the 
wrong  kind  of  diet  may 
result  in  weight  loss 
at  the  expense  of  vital 
tissues,  causing  weak- 
ness, anemia  and  in- 
fections. Play  Safe  - 
follow  a  doctor's  ad- 
vice .  .  .  and  that 
means  Dr.  Munro's 
"SLENDERIZING  for 
New  Beauty" 


TEST  DR.  MUNRO'S  HEALTH-GIVING 
PRINCIPLES  AT  OUR  EXPENSE! 

r  *  T  EGGS,  STEAK,  OYSTERS,  FAT,  DRESSING,  ICE  CREAM,  CREAMY 
CM  I  DESSERTS  -  3  MEALS  A  DAY!  You'll  find  everything  you  need  to 
know  about  reducing  right  in  this  book— including  a  Complete  30  day  diet,  simple, 
helpful  exercises,  and  advice  on  health  to  revitalize  your  body. 


Because  Dr. 
Munro  gives  you 
a  full  month  of 
suggested  menus, 
you  don't  have  to 
count  calories  to 
lose  weight.  He 
tells  you  just 
■what  to  eat  and 
what  to  avoid! 


START 
RIGHT  NOW 


MONEY- BACK 

GUARANTEE 

You  can  get  this  valu- 
able book  in  all  book- 
stores for  only  $2.50 
per  copy.  However,  if 
you  wish  to  test  "SLEN- 
DERIZING for  New 
Beauty"  for  10  days— 
MAIL  THIS  COUPON.  If 
you  are  not  delighted 
with  results  you  may 
return  the  book  in  10 
days  for  a  full  $2.50 
refund. 


BARTHOLOMEW  HOUSE  INC..  wG^is? 

205  East  42nd  St.,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 

Please  send  me  postpaid  a  copy  of  "SLENDER- 
IZING for  New  Beauty'.  I  enclose  S2.50.  If  I  am 
not  delighted  with  results,  I  may  return  book  in 
10  days  for  full  refund. 


I 


Name  

Address 


City.., 


..Zone~ State... 


rJ 


79 


Don't  Call  Teenagers  "Delinquents" 


(^Continued  from  page  47) 
youth,  the  reasons  for  it,  and  the  reasons 
why  it  is  so  wrong. 

"Of  course,  I'm  not  a  teenager  any 
longer,"  David  went  on.  "Had  my  twenti- 
eth birthday  just  a  short  while  ago.  But 
having  been  tiirough  all  seven  years  of  it, 
I  figure  I  know  something  about  being  a 
teenager.  I  know  how  they  act,  what  they 
feel  and  think  and  do. 

"We've  had  a  lot  of  talks  about  it  at 
home — bull  sessions  when  the  fellows 
come  around  to  spend  the  evening.  Some- 
times Mom  and  Pop  sit  in  with  us,  and 
they've  told  us  that,  so  far  as  they  can  see, 
young  people  today  aren't  much  different 
from  when  they  were  kids.  Even  Grandma 
Hilliard  around  the  comer,  and  Grandma 
Nelson  back  in  New  Jersey,  say  that  kids 
cut  up  plenty  when  they  were  girls.  So 
what's  all  the  fuss  about?  AU  of  a  sud- 
den, things  that  were  'innocent  fun'  or 
'harmless  pranks'  one  generation  ago,  or 
two  generations  ago,  are  being  tagged 
'juvenile  delinquency.' " 

Harriet  chimes  in,  in  her  quiet,  convinc- 
ing way.  "Ozzie  and  I  figure  there  must 
be  a  lot  of  folks  around  with  awfully  short 
memories.  The  ones  who  get  so  bothered 
over  rock  'n'  roll  were  probably  knocking 
themselves  out  with  the  Charleston  thirty 
years  ago.  They  click  their  tongues  over 
sports  cars,  but  they  probably  drove  a  'tin 
Lizzie,'  painted  yellow,  with  jazzy  slogans 
plastered  all  over  it. 

"They  forget  how  much  noise  they  made 
when  they  were  fifteen,  how  the  girls 
swooned  over  Rudy  Vallee  just  about  the 
way  they're  swooning  over  Presley  these 
days.  And  before  Vallee,  it  was  Rudolph 
Valentino.  You'd  never  get  them  to  ad- 
mit their  generation  has  turned  out  wrong. 
Why  consign  today's  youngsters  to  some 
horrible  fate?" 

"We  had  a  first-hand  experience  with 
that  short-memory  bit,"  Ozzie  explains. 
"A  couple  of  years  ago,  Ricky's  gang  got 
in  a  scrape  at  school,  which  nearly  got 
the  whole  bunch  of  them  in  a  peck  of 
trouble.  Seems  they'd  been  initiating  a 
member  into  their  club,  and  had  plastered 
him  pretty  thoroughly  with  a  rainbow  as- 
sortment of  cold-water  paint.  The  kid 
didn't  care — a  good  shower  and  the  stuff 
all  came  off.  But  the  school  authorities 
heard  about  it,  and  things  were  popping 
around  here  for  a  while.  This  would  have 
been  a  pretty  mild  Halloween-type  trick, 
back  when  I  was  a  boy.  But  you  should 
have  heard  the  screams  of  'potential  de- 
linquents' start  up. 

"Actually,  I  don't  really  mind  about  the 
boys  busting  out  with  a  little  deviltry  now 
and  then,"  Ozzie  chuckles.  "I  think  I'd 
really  worry  if  they  never  got  into  any 
scrapes — it's  just  normal  for  growing  boys 
to  kick  Up  their  heels  every  once  in  a 
while.  Parents  should  expect  a  certain 
amount  of  it,  and  accept  it  as  a  rule,  rather 
than  the  exception.  And,  above  all,  they 
shouldn't  jiimp  to  the  conclusion  that 
they're  harboring  a  would-be  delinquent 
if  Junior  kicks  over  the  traces  a  little." 
Harriet  suggests  that  there  undoubtedly 
was  a  great  deal  of  true  juvenile  delin- 
quency then,  just  as  there  has  always  been 
throughout  history.  But  today,  because 
of  the  facilities  for  communications  the 
world  over,  any  misadventure  is  known 
around  the  globe  in  a  matter  of  hours 
after  it  happens. 
J  "What  might  once  have  been  a  purely 
y  local  incident,  known  to  only  a  few 
„  people,"  she  explains,  "today  is  front  page 
news  for  millions.  And  it's  just  like  any 
other  news — the  good  things  rarely  make 
the  papers.  It's  the  murders,  the  divorces, 
80 


the  sensational  things  in  the  adult  world 
which  make  the  headlines.  And,  in  the 
world  of  youngsters,  it's  the  delinquents 
who  make  the  headlines. 

"People  forget  that,  for  every  story  on 
two  youngsters  in  trouble,  there  are  thou- 
sands of  youngsters  living  normal,  well- 
adjusted,  well-behaved  lives.  It's  only  a 
small  percentage  who  break  the  rules,  and 
make  the  news.  And  many  times,  the 
things  they  have  done  are  blown  up,  ex- 
aggerated  beyond   all   proportion." 

The  Nelsons  aren't  judging  the  entire 
population  of  teenagers  by  just  their  own 
two.  They've  had  a  pretty  fair  segment 
of  that  under-twenty  population  trooping 
through  their  living  room  for  the  past  ten 
years.  It's  nothing  for  David  or  Ricky  to 
haul  eight  or  ten  buddies  home  for  din- 
ner, or  for  a  late  snack  after  the  movies. 
On  weekends,  there  are  apt  to  be  sixteen 
or  more  guests  at  the  Nelsons'  new  beach 
house  in  Laguna. 

"About  the  only  accusation  against  teen- 
agers that  I  can  go  along  with  is  the  one 
about  their  appetites,"  Harriet  chuckles. 
"They  all  eat  like  starved  horses.  I'll  bet 
the  average  adult  could  exist  comfortably 
for  a  week  on  what  one  healthy  teenager 
consumes  in  a  day.  But  what's  so  wrong 
about  that?   And  since  when  is  it  new?" 

To  meet  this  problem,  Harriet  never 
lets  the  supply  of  hamburger  and  buns 
dwindle.  And  she  insists  that  any  mass 
forays  on  the  kitchen  be  accompanied  by 
"work  details"  from  the  gang — to  help 
prepare  the  food,  and  help  clean  up  after- 
ward. 

"And  the  thing  about  the  boys  today 
that  gets  me,"  she  smiles,  "they're  eager 
to  help  any  way  they  can.  Most  of  the 
boys  I  knew  when  I  was  young  wouldn't 
be  caught  dead  in  a  kitchen.  Nowadays, 
boys  see  no  stigma  connected  with  tossing 
a  meal  together,  or  washing  up  afterward. 
This  is  delinquency?    Give  me  more!" 

Kicky,  who  hasn't  been  able  to  get  a 
word  in  up  to  now,  makes  his  presence 
known.  "You're  always  reading  some 
snide  crack  about  rock  'n'  roll  music,  and 
how  corny  it  is.  Who  they  kidding?  I've 
heard  some  of  those  old  records,  and  any- 
one who  thinks  rock  'n'  roll  is  corny  just 
ought  to  give  a  listen  to  some  of  the 
things  they  dished  out  to  the  public  in 
the  '20's.  Whew!   They're  really  corn! 

"Mom  likes  rock  'n'  roll,"  he  adds,  "so 
I  never  have  any  fun  getting  an  argument 
out  of  her  on  that  one.  But,  for  a  while, 
she  was  pretty  down  on  Presley.  So  I'd 
put  a  stack  of  his  records  on  the  player 
while  we  were  around  home  in  the  eve- 
ning, and  then  just  sit  there  and  enjoy 
hearing  her  sputter. 

"But  d'you  know  what  happened  the 
other  evening?  We  were  all  watching 
Presley  on  television,  and  Pop  comes  out 
with  'This  guy  is  here  to  stay!'  And  Mom 
says,  'I'm  beginning  to  think  he  has  a  very 
nice  voice!'  Now  I  ask  you,  what  fun  is 
there  left  when  you  can't  even  get  a  good 
argument  worked  up  with  your  parents 
on  such  a  controversial  subject  as  Pres- 
ley?   I'll  bet  it's  a  conspiracy!" 

Harriet,  elaborating,  goes  on  to  explain 
their  belief  that  many  of  the  short-lived 
fads  high -school  students  adopt  are  only 
a  natural  rebellion,  experienced  in  every 
generation,  against  adult  domination: 
"Consciously  or  subconsciously,  the  kids 
go  for  something  they  know  irritates  the 
heck  out  of  the  grownups.  By  making  it 
popular,  they  demonstrate  their  own  power 
over  the  grown-up  world.  It's  nothing  to 
get  so  excited  about — these  fads  generally 
die  an  early  death.  If  they  linger,  it's  only 
because  the  grownups  are  putting  up  such 


a  good  fight  that  the  kids  hate  to  call  it 
quits.  But  rebellion  in  this  form  is  cer- 
tainly nothing  new.  And  we  think  it's  a 
healthy  sign  that  the  younger  generation 
has  a  mind  of  its  own!" 

Actually,  fads  have  never  plagued  the 
Nelson  household  unduly.  Not,  at  least, 
the  fads  which  have  caused  unfavorable 
comment  in  the  press  across  the  country — 
freak  haircuts,  zoot-suit  clothes,  jive  talk. 
These,  Harriet  and  Ozzie  believe,  are  apt 
to  be  the  manifestations  of  insecurity  and 
attempts  to  gain  attention. 

Since  the  Nelson  offspring,  and  the 
members  of  their  gang,  are  about  as  well- 
adjusted  a  group  as  you're  apt  to  find 
anywhere,  there's  been  no  need  for  these 
outlandish  tricks.  And  the  Nelsons  think 
the  majority  of  teenagers  across  the  coun- 
try are  much  like  David  and  Ricky  and 
their  friends — secure  in  the  knowledge  of 
parental  love,  given  a  fair  share  of  atten- 
tion for  themselves,  and  therefore  not 
over-eager  to  gain  it  by  artificial  methods. 

One  trend  the  Nelsons  have  been  more 
or  less  forced  to  go  along  with  is  the  "car 
of  our  own"  mania  which  hits  California 
youth  at  age  sixteen.  A  driver's  license 
isn't  enough  to  satisfy  most  Southern 
California  kids.  Among  the  boys,  at  least, 
each  feels  he  must  have  a  car  of  his  own. 

Actually,  viewed  objectively,  this  is 
more  of  a  necessity  than  a  luxury  in  the 
Los  Angeles  area.  The  city  is  spread  out 
over  an  unusually  large  area,  distances 
between  various  communities  are  great, 
and  public  transportation  is  woefully  in- 
adequate. Often  the  family  car  (or  cars) 
is  almost  constantly  in  use.  So  that  the 
teenager,  to  get  from  home  to  school  to 
football  field  must  either  hitch-hike,  or 
have  his  own  car.  Happily,  adults  frown 
more  on  the  former  than  on  the  latter. 

Many  young  people  end  up  with  jalopies. 
The  Nelsons  went  through  this  bit  with 
David  several  years  ago.  A  1941-vintage 
car,  after  its  numerous  trips  to  the  garage 
for  repair,  ended  up  costing  them  almost 
as  much  as  an  expensive  new  model. 

"Actually,"  Harriet  points  out,  "I  think 
owning  their  own  cars  is  very  good  for 
the  boys.  They  are  very  careful  of  those 
precious  automobiles.  "Too,  I  think  most 
youngsters  today  are  good  drivers.  Their 
reactions  are  fast,  they've  been  taught  in 
the  school  driver-training  courses  how  to 
do  things  correctly,  and  they  are,  in  gen- 
eral, more  courteous  in  their  driving  than 
many  adults.  I  don't  know  how  the  sta- 
tistics show  it,  but  I'll  bet  fewer  accidents 
are  caused  by  teen-age  drivers  than  by 
those  in  the  over  50-bracket,  for  instance. 
And  I  heard  just  recently  that  some  of  the 
big  insurance  companies  have  reduced 
their  rates  for  teen-age  drivers  trained  in 
school  driving  courses.  Which  shows  I'm 
not  the  only  one  with  confidence  in  teen- 
age drivers!" 

After  the  boys  have  excused  themselves 
to  keep  engagements  elsewhere,  Ozzie  and 
Harriet  open  up  even  more  in  their  ad- 
miration for  today's  younger  generation. 

"The  thing  I  can't  get  over  about  young 
people  today,"  Ozzie  muses,  "is  their  grasp 
of  what's  going  on  in  the  world.  Politics, 
national  or  international,  they've  read  up 
on  it,  and  lots  of  times  they  have  a  better 
fund  of  information  than  many  adults. 
Same  thing  goes  for  music,  drama,  art — 
'most  any  field.  I  can't  remember  being 
so  interested  in  the  whole  world  as  young 
people  are  today!" 

This  is  a  tribute,  coming  from  Ozzie, 
for  he  was  a  fairly  un-tjrpical  teenager 
himself.  The  youngest  Eagle  Scout  in 
America  at  thirteen,  he  later  worked  his 
way  through  Rutgers  with  his  own  dance 


.nd.  He  was  quarterback  on  the  Rutgers 
lOtball  team,  and  was  also  a  member  of 
_^e  swimming,  lacrosse,  and  debating 
teams,  besides  winning  the  university's 
middleweight  boxing  title.  Reminded  of 
all  this,  he  still  stoutly  maintains  that 
today's  youth  has  a  broader  outlook  than 
those  of  a  generation  ago. 

Harriet  agrees.  "I  remember  current- 
events  class  at  school.  Once  a  week  we 
brought  a  clipping,  from  the  local  news- 
paper, or  The  Literary  Digest,  or  the  then- 
new  Time  magazine.  We  read  those  clip- 
pings aloud  in  class. 

"For  an  hour,  once  a  week,  we  gave  our 
attention  to  what  was  going  on  in  the 
world  outside  of  Kansas  City,  Missouri. 
"Today,  the  youngsters  keep  a  daily  check 
on  the  progress  of  everything.  Not  just 
the  standing  of  their  favorite  baseball 
team,  but  the  proceedings  in  the  U.N., 
what  the  critics  said  about  a  new  play 
opening  on  Broadway,  the  comparative 
merits  of  the  new-model  cars,  and  the 
latest  discovery  in  medicine  to  hit  the 
front  pages. 

"It's  a  wholesome  awareness  that  the 
world  is  a  very  small  place  these  days. 
The  fact  that  these  boys  must  face  the 
draft  in  a  year  or  so  makes  them  mature 
beyond  their  years.  They  can't  go  on  their 
carefree  way,  letting  tomorrow  take  care 
of  itself.  "They  must  make  decisions — 
whether  to  try  to  get  in  a  few  years  of 
college  before  they're  called  up,  or  to  en- 
list right  out  of  high  school,  get  it  over, 
and  then  go  to  college. 

"They  know  very  definitely  that  they 
have  a  role  in  the  scheme  of  things,"  she 
says,  "and  they  take  their  responsibility 
seriously.  Although  I  don't  have  fkst- 
hand  knowledge,  I  think  the  girls  are 
similarly  affected.  They  may  not  have 
the  draft  hanging  over  their  heads  per- 
sonally, but  they  realize  what  it  means 
to  the  boys  they  know  and  like,  and  they, 
too,  stop  and  think  about  the  future  much 
more  than  yovmg  people  did  a  generation 
ago." 

Harriet  swings  the  conversation  to  an- 
other phase  of  the  question  not  yet  dis- 
cussed: "There's  a  lot  of  talk  about  young 
people  nowadays  depending  on  artificial, 
contrived  entertainment  for  their  recrea- 
tion. That  may  have  been  so,  a  few  years 
back.  But,  to  us,  it's  very  obvious  that  the 
pendulum  has  swung  back  again,  that  the 
youngsters  today  are  rediscovering  the 
pleasures  of  doing  the  basically  simple 
things." 

Ozzie  and  Harriet  Nelson,  as  close  to 
being  model  parents  as  any  couple  you're 
apt  to  meet,  smile  as  they  sum  up  their 
case  in  defense  of  the  average  teenager. 
They  obviously  feel  there  is  nothing  to 
get  so  excited  about,  that  things  are  run- 
ning pretty  smoothly  generally,  and  that 
the  kids  will  do  all  right  for  themselves, 
if  their  hecklers  will  just  leave  them  alone. 
"I  just  hope,"  Harriet  says  earnestly, 
"that,  the  next  time  some  big  headline  hits 
the  front  pages  about  a  scrape  some  'teen- 
age gang'  has  got  into,  the  readers  will 
remember  that — for  every  member  of  that 
'gang'  involved  in  trouble — there  were  at 
that  very  moment  thousands  of  teenagers 
across  the  coimitry  attending  some  church 
meeting,  or  a  school  dance,  or  a  basketball 
game,  or  at  home  watching  TV.  Then 
maybe  those  headline-readers  wouldn't  be 
so  quick  to  brand  all  teenagers  as  juvenile 
delinquents!" 

FOR  THE  FIRST  TIME! 


Ma  Perkins  steps  out  of  character 
to  reveal  Virginia  Payne 

in  April  TV  RADIO  MIRROR 

at  your  newsstands  on  March  7 


ItTOTIillSrC^r  does  so  muioli 
for  a  -woman ... 

Beautiful  eyes  are  your  most  important  feature,  so  bring  out 
all  their  hidden  loveliness  with  MaybeUine,  the  safe, 
natural-looking  eye  make-up  preferred  by  women  of  good 
taste  the  world  over.  MaybeUine  makes  every  woman's  eyes 
beautiful.  How  very  beautiful,  you'll  never  know  until  you  try 

MaybeUine  Mascara,  Solid  or  Cream  Form  . . .  $1.25 
MaybeUine  Automatic  Eyebrow  Pencil,  79f!,  Twin  Refills  39i 
MaybeUine  Iridescent  Eye  Shadow  Stick,  $1 
For  complete  eye  beauty,  use  MaybeUine  Professional 
Eyelash  Curler,  $1.00,  and  Precision  Tweezers,  29i         'J^ 

aSTothing  'iDoes  So  l^vioh  To  I,^a,lce  Byes  Bea,u.tifu.l 


MAKE  MONEY  with^ 
^Simple  cartoons: 


A  book  everyone  who  likes  to  draw 
should  have.  It  is  free;  no 
obligation.  Simply  address 


FREE 

BOOK 


Cartoonists'  exchange 

Dept.  593         Pleasant  Hill,  Ohio 


from  your  favorite 

PHOTO 

Deluxe    finish,     double 
wc-ight   portrait   paper. 
2  1/2     '^     31/2"     size. 
Money-back  guarantee. 
Send     cash,     check     or 
money-order. 
DAKO    KEEPSAKE 
WALLETS    PHOTOS 
P  O.  Box  866,  Union.  N.J. 


Mothers  Friend 


lesson.    Over    900.000 


BE  YOUR  OWN 
MUSIC  TEACHER 

Send  for  Free  Book  Telling  How  Easily 
You  Can  Learn  Piano,  Guitar,  Aecordion, 
ANY    Instrument  This   EASY   A-B-C   Way 

Now  IT'S  EAST  to  learn  music  at  home. 
No  tiresome  "exercises."  N'o  teacher, 
just  START  BIGHT  OUT  playing  simple 
pieces.  Thousands  now  play  who  nerer  thought  they 
could.  Our  pictured  lessons  make  it  easy  as  A-u-l-  10 
learn  to  play  popular  music,  hymns,  classical  ana  an5 
other  music.  Only  a  few  cents  a  les 
students!  Our  59th  successful  year. 

MAIL  COUPON  FOR  FREE  BOOK 

Find  out  why  our  method  can  teach  you 
quickly,  easily,  inexpen- 
/•^i  rt  sifely.  Mail  coupon  for 
•'fcJJ"'^  Free  36-pa6e  Illustrated 
Book.  No  obligation.  No 
salesman  will  call.  U.S. 
SCHOOL  OF  MUSIC, 
Studio  A203,  Port  Wash- 
ington.  N.  Y. 

r  U.   S.    SCHOOL    OF    MUSIC 

I   Studio   A203,    Port   Washington,    N.    Y. 

I   Please    send    me    Free   Book.    I    would    like    to    play 

I    (Name  Instrument). 

I  Have  you 

I    Instrument Instrument? 


Name. 


I   "  (Please  Print) 

I   Address | 


soothing, 
refreshing  si<in  con- 
ditioner that   pene- 
trates and   brings 
relief  to  numbing, 
tingling   muscles  in 
back  and  legs  .  .  . 
ends  the  dis- 
comfort of 
tight,  dry 
skin. 

At  Drug  Stores  Everyichere. 

THE  S.S.S.  COMPANY,  ATLANTA,  GA. 


GET  ON  A 


AND  WIN! 

How  would  you 
like  to  win  $100,- 
000— $64,000  or 
even  $5,000  on  one 
of  the  popular 
Quiz  programs. 
No  such  luck  you 
say.  But  don't  un- 
derestimate your 
chances  of  becom- 
ing a  contestant.  When  opportunity 
knocks  (and  the  important  thing  is 
that  you  can  help  opportunity  to 
knock  if  you  know  how)  you  must  be 
ready. 

Millions  of  dollars  are  given  away 
on  Quiz  shows,  yet  nothing  has  been 
written  to  tell  you  how  to  become  a 
contestant.  Nothing  has  been  written 
to  give  you  tips  on  how  to  win.  But 
now,  in  his  brand  new  guide,  Joe 
Kane,  the  man 
who  writes  the 
questions  for 
Break  The  Bank, 
tells  you  exactly 
what  you  want  to 
know  about  Quiz 
shows. 

Here  is  your  op- 
portunity to  get 
expert  help  from 
the  foremost  au- 
thority on  Quiz 
programs!  Here  is 
your  chance  to  get 
behind-the-scenes 
and  see  exactly 
how  a  Quiz  Show 
works! 

Be  prepared  to 
win  as  much 
money  as  possi- 
ble. Read  chapter 
headings  listed 
here — and  bear  in 
mind  that  these 
are  only  a  part  of 

the  contents  of  this  helpful  guide. 
Whether  you  attend  Quiz  shows  or 
get  called  on  the  telephone — this 
booklet  is  packed  with  priceless  in- 
formation for  you.  Get  your  copy 
while  supply  lasts.  Only  50c  and  we 
pay  the  postage! 

MAIL  COUPON  TODAY! 


PARTIAL  CONTENTS 

How  to  Obtain  Tick- 
ets •  The  Admission 

•  The  Best  Seats  • 
The  Warm-up  • 
Your  Appearance  • 
How  Contestants  are 
Selected  •  The  Pre- 
Show  Interview  • 
Why  Certain  Con- 
testants are  Select- 
ed •  City  vs.  Urban 
Contestants  •  How 
To  Fill  Out  the 
Questionnaire  •  The 
Write-in  Contestant 

•  The  Home  Con- 
testant •   The  Tele- 

§hone  Winner   •   Is 
tage-fright  Serious 

•  Kind  of  Quiz 
Shows  •  Picking  the 
Category  •  Which 
Quiz  Show  is  Best  • 
Types  of  Questions 

•  How  Questions 
Are  Prepared  • 
Books  To  Study  • 
The  Come-Back 
Contestant  •  When 
To  Stop  •  Who  Sees 
the  Questions  •  The 
Income  Tax  •  The 
Emcee  •  How  Hon- 
est are  Quiz  Shows? 


•  BARTHOLOMEW  HOUSE.  INC..  Dept.  WG-357  ; 

i  205   E.   42  St..   New   York   17.    N.   Y. 

•  < 

•  Send   me   postpaid  a   copy  of   HOW   TO  i 

•  WIN  ON  QUIZ   SHOWS.  I  enclose  50c. ; 

• 

•  NAME ; 

T  •  Please  Print  ' 

V  • 

'  :  STREET ; 

:  CITY STATE ', 

82      


I  Love  To  Listen 


(Continued  jrom  page  59) 
was  time  for  me  to  become  a  "good  lis- 
tener." From  that  time  on,  when  I  read  a 
letter,  I  tried  to  recreate  in  my  mind's  ear 
the  voice  of  the  person  writing  to  me. 
Word  for  word,  I  took  in  the  message. 
And,  word  for  word,  I  remembered  what 
had  been  communicated. 

What  treasures  I  began  to  find  in  letters! 
Gone  forever  was  the  cursory  reading  I'd 
habitually  given  to  communiques  from 
my  daughters,  away  at  school,  or  from  my 
sister  in  Denver.  I  learned  to  "listen"  for 
the  overtones,  the  hidden  meanings,  the 
laughter  or  tears  sometimes  contained  in 
a  simple  sentence.  My  fan  mail,  too,  sud- 
denly began  to  take  up  and  enrich  many 
hours  of  my  life.  Through  it,  I  was  per- 
mitted to  live  for  a  few  moments  in  a 
home  perhaps  thousands  of  miles  away, 
and  to  look  into  the  human  hearts  under 
one  roof. 

Best  of  all,  after  such  thorough  listen- 
ing— whether  in  person  or  by  mail — there 
comes  the  time  when  one  is  privileged  to 
speak  at  last,  giving  aid  or  bringing  com- 
fort to  a  troubled  mind.  For  a  year,  I  had 
the  privilege  of  writing  an  advice  column 
for  TV  Radio  Mirror's  sister  magazine. 
Photoplay.  During  the  first  month  of  my 
"listening"  to  the  problems  of  distressed 
individuals,  as  set  forth  in  a  letter,  I  en- 
countered   a    legitimate   heartwringer. 

The  note  came  from  a  boy  who  had  been 
maimed  in  an  automobile  accident.  Every 
word  he  wrote  bespoke  a  despair  that  bor- 
dered upon  the  totally  hopeless.  I  an- 
swered, calling  his  attention  to  the  num- 
ber of  people— such  as  Sarah  Bernhardt, 
Major  de  Seversky,  and  President  Frank- 
lin D.  Roosevelt — who  had  sufEered  the 
loss  of  some  faculty,  yet  had  triumphed  in 
the  profession  of  their  choice. 

The  magazine  had  not  been  on  the  stands 
a  week  before  I  began  to  receive  answers 
to  the  boy,  addressed  to  me  to  be  for- 
warded. The  writers  were  people  who  were 
building  rich,  useful,  meaningful  Uves  for 
themselves  and  those  they  loved,  and  each 
letter  offered  a  fresh  suggestion  for  the 
physical  and  mental  rehabilitation  of  the 
boy.  I  believe  I  forwarded  between  twenty 
and  thirty  of  these  letters  to  the  boy,  and 
his  answering  note  of  thanks  was  some- 
thing I  shall  never  forget. 

That  was  a  "long  distance"  case  of  lis- 
tening, but  several  months  later  I  was 
approached  by  a  girl  whom  I  had  known 
slightly  for  some  time.  She  explained  that 
she  had  read  my  articles,  so  had  been  en- 
couraged to  talk  to  me.  Hers  was  not  an 
unusual  problem:  She  was  in  love  with 
the  wrong  man.  "Sometimes  I  think  the 
only  solution  is  to  lie  down  and  go  to  sleep, 
and  never  wake  up,"  she  said. 

I  hstened  to  my  young  friend  for  nearly 
two  hours.  Eventually,  we  reached  the 
point  at  which  she  let  me  make  two  lists. 
One  list  was  made  up  of  each  of  the  man's 
good  characteristics  as  she  called  them 
off  to  me.  The  other  consisted  of  his  faults, 
described  in  detail.  The  statistics  set  down, 
we  drew  off  a  balance. 

Looking  at  the  score,  the  girl  was  as- 
tonished. It  was  rather  clear  that,  in  black 
and  white,  her  prince  charming  was  flunk- 
ing the  course.  "Perhaps  I've  been  a  child," 
she  said,  "crying  over  a  broken  toy  on  the 
fifteenth  of  December,  without  realizing 
that  Christmas  was  only  ten  days  away. 
Perhaps  there's  something  far  better  in 
store.  ...  I'll  keep  you  posted." 

Naturally,  the  solution  to  her  problem 
wasn't  that  easy;  it  took  time  and  common 
sense  to  end  the  futile  romance.  However, 
the  important  fact  at  that  period  was  that 
she  had  been  able  to  talk  out  her  love  and 
longing,  her  doubts  and  disappointments, 
and  to  come  to  a  better  understanding  of 


herself  and  the  situation.  And  to  acquirel 
enough  poise  to  want  to  work  it  out. 

Poise  is  something  I  myself  once  had  to 
work  for,  might  and  main.  I  have  an  idea 
that  young  people  who  dream  of  making 
the  theater  their  life's  work  have  a  natural 
inclination  to  be  garrulous.  In  addition  to 
this  built-in  tendency  toward  glibness,  I 
personally  had  another  reason  for  wanting 
to  hang  my  tongue  in  the  middle.  I  had 
always  been  an  introvert,  determined  to 
hide  the  fact.  During  high  school,  I  envied 
the  lucky  girls  who  seemed  to  be  able  to 
launch  into  interesting  chitchat  with  any- 
one at  any  time.  I  yearned  for  that  ability. 
It  turned  out  to  be  fairly  easy  to  acquire, 
once  I  had  analyzed  it.  How  I  did  that  is 
quite  another  story,  with  which  I'm  not 
going  to  agitate  myself  now.  Suffice  it  to 
say  that  there  are  ways  of  entering  a  room 
and  fascinating  all  listeners — if  one  knows 
when  to  quit.  Trouble  was,  I  didn't  learn 
when  to  quit.  Not  then. 

One  night  in  Argentina,  for  instance,  I 
was  invited  to  a  glamorous  garden  party. 
The  host  was  the  British  headmaster  of  the 
English  school  in  Buenos  Aires,  which  my 
husband  had  attended,  and  his  guest  list 
included  the  most  fascinating  guests  avail- 
able in  that  intriguing  city.  Naturally,  I 
wanted  to  shine,  and  I  had  the  brief  satis- 
faction of  being  told  afterward  that  no 
Fourth  of  July  sparkled  more  brightly. 
Ha!  In  the  same  breath,  my  friend  asked, 
"And  weren't  you  completely  enchanted 
by  Mr.  Bridges?" 
"Mr.  Bridges?"  I  repeated  uncertainly. 
"He  was  the  rugged  chap  with  whom 
you  sat  in  the  garden  swing  for  so  long." 
I  remembered  him  very  well.  Rugged, 
indeed.  Intriguing.  Attentive — he  had  a 
way  of  leaning  forward  to  look  at  his  vis- 
a-vis as  if  he  were  impatient  for  the  next 
word  to  be  spoken.  Of  course,  I  was  the 
one  who  was  speaking  it.  When  I  should 
have  been  listening. 

Mr.  Bridges,  it  seemed,  was  the  grand- 
son of  missionaries  who  had  settled  in  the 
Falkland  Islands  when  headhunters  had 
been  the  chief  authorities  in  all  but  the 
coastal  settlements.  He  had  grown  up  in 
the  midst  of  constant  hazard  and  had 
learned  how  to  take  care  of  himself  in 
wilderness  as  the  average  American 
youngster  learns  baseball. 

Can  you  imagine  it?  I  had  spent  perhaps 
forty  minutes  with  this  man  who  could 
have  opened  vistas  of  a  world  known  to 
very  few  people,  but  I  hadn't  allowed  him 
to  get  a  word  in  edgewise! 

And  then  there  was  the  elegant  dinner 
party  in  New  York  given  by  a  friend 
whom  I'd  known  so  long  that  she  and  I 
were  extensively  familiar  with  one  an- 
other's biography.  Her  guest  list,  as  always, 
included  a  number  of  Great  Names  from 
the  theatrical,  literary  and  business  worlds, 
so  I  was  glad  that  I  had  licked  my  old- 
time  introversion.  I  found  myself  talking 
to  a  most  distinguished -looking  lady  of 
indefinite  age;  I  was  delighted  by  her  at- 
titude; she  seemed  to  imply  that  she  found 
me  amusing  .  .  .  and  perhaps  something 
more.  Let's  say  her  expression  indicated 
an  almost  affectionate  interest. 

Afterward,  I  asked  my  hostess  for  the 
lady's  name.  My  friend  clapped  her  hand 
to  her  forehead  and  cried,  "Isn't  that  ex- 
actly like  me?  I  meant  to  tell  you  in 
advance,  but  I  was  certain  you  would 
make  the  discovery  for  yourself.  That  lady 
was  Dr.  So-and-so,  recently  returned  from 
China.  Unless  I'm  mistaken,  she  and  your 
mother  attended  medical  school  together, 
but  she  is  so  shy  that  a  person  must  pry 
every   word   from   her." 

I  might  as  well  admit  to  my  final  con- 
versational crash,  and  have  done  with  it. 
I  was  on  board  ship — a  glamorous  situation 


11 


always — so  I  felt  uncommonly  communi- 
cative. During  my  brisk  "constitutional" 
one  evening,  I  met  an  extremely  hand- 
some man — tall,   blondish,  with  twinkling 

'blue  eyes. 

The   gentleman  proved   to  be   adroit  at 

'encouraging  me  to  talk  about  myseK.  There 
are   few   subjects   as   fascinating   as   one's 

fown  history,  so  I  enjoyed  every  moment. 
From  his  laughter  and  his  further  ques- 
tions,   1   think    it   is   safe   to   say   that   he 

'suffered  no  pain  from  my  anecdotes. 

Came  the  day  of  docking  at  Liverpool, 
hurried  farewells,  and  my  surprise  to  note 
that  my  deck-walking  companion  was 
greeted  by  such  pomp  and  heraldry  as  is 

'accorded   only   to   persons  of   great   rank. 

"Can  you  tell  me,  please,  the  name  of 

the  tall   gentleman?"   I  asked  one   of  the 

uniformed    chaps    who    seemed    to    be    in 

^full  charge  of  red  carpets. 

'     "That  is  Lord  Halifax,  ma'am,"  was  the 

'  answer. 

'     If  water  weren't  so  wet,   I  might  have 

^drowned  myself.  At  that  time,  Lord  Hali- 

'fax  had  served  His  Majesty's  government 
as  undersecretary  for  colonies,  minister  of 

I  agriculture,  governor-general  of  India, 
secretary  for  war,  lord  privy  seal,  leader 

'  of  the  House  of  Lords,  and  was — at  the 
time    of    our    meeting — returning    to    his 

1  home  on  holiday  from  his  post  as  am- 
bassador to  the  United  States. 

'  I  may  not  learn  fast,  but  I  learn  deeply. 
The  fact  had  now  penetrated  to  the  ninth 

I  layer  that  I  was  missing  some  of  the  large 
experiences  in  life  because  I  was  on  an 
LT  (long-talking)  frequency.  What  I 
needed  to  do,  I  concluded,  was  to  throw 
away   the   needle. 

"Very  well,"  I  told  myself,  "I'U  learn  to 
listen,  but  I  don't  think  I'm  going  to  like 
it." 

But  I  was  wrong.  It  wasn't  long  before  I 
discovered  that  my  hard-earned  silence 
was   purchasing   a   knowledge   of   courage 

1  and  philosophy  which  I  might  never  have 
learned  had  I  not  become  a  listener.  Not 

I  only  chance  acquaintances,  but  people 
who  shared  my  daily  routine  began  to  open 
windows  for   me.   And   I   began   to   enjoy 

■  dinner  parties,  whereas — in  the  yakity- 
yak  days — I  had  always  exhausted  myself 
being  "charming."  Within  my  own  home, 
too,  I  soon  found  that  my  personal  sUence 
fomented  all  manner  of  interesting  sound, 
from  family  and  visitors  alike. 

One  day,  after  I  had  repeated  an  inter- 
esting story  one  caller  had  told  me,  my 
yoimger  daughter  said  thoughtfully,  "Re- 
member how  you  used  to  lecture  us  by  the 
hour?  It  didn't  do  much  good.  Then, 
something  changed  you.  Instead  of  telling, 
you  began  to  ask.  Instead  of  talking,  you 
began  to  listen,  and  the  things  you  heard 
and  passed  on  to  us  had  twice  the  result 
that  the  lectures  did." 
"Yes,  dear,"  I  said  meekly. 
This  is  probably  as  good  a  time  as  any 
to  confess  that— hard  as  I  try — I  don't 
always  listen.  Several  years  ago,  when  I 
moved  into  a  new  house,  a  friend  gave  me 
a  handsome  teapot,  inscribed  with  the 
words,  "Peace  and  Plenty,"  the  traditional 
house-warming  gift  among  the  British 
"because  nothing  expresses  a  wish  for  your 
peace  and  plenty  quite  so  well  as  a  teapot." 
I  was  going  on  about  it  at  a  great  rate, 
chatting  away  happily  about  the  thoughtful- 
ness  of  the  gift,  the  charm  of  the  thought, 
my  delight  in  our  new  home.  ...  I  turned 
to  my  granddaughter,  S'An  Baxley,  who 
was  then  only  seven,  and  I  burbled,  "Isn't 
it  delightful,  darling?  I  mean  the  new 
house,  and  seeing  friends,  and  opening 
packages,  and  the  thought  behind  the 
giving  of  a  teapot.  .  ," 

In  a  Charles  Laughton  voice,  S'An  said 
coldly,  "Sounds  corny  to  me." 

Well,  as  I  said,  I  love  to  listen.  I  never 
know  what  I'm   going  to  hear  next. 


NATIONAL  BELLAS  HESS 

SPRING  &  SUMMER  CATALOG 

For  You  and  Your  Fomily  . . .  See  hundreds  of  gay 
Spring  fashions  designed  in  New  York,  the  world's 
style  capital.  Select  from  an  exciting  array  of  dresses, 
coats,  shoes  and  accessories  .  .  .  fine  home  items  .  .  . 
all  first  quality  and  offered  to  you  at  the  lowest 
prices  anywhere. 

Shop  by  mail,  and  join  the  millions  who  save  by 
buying  regularly  from  National  Bellas  Hess  catalogs. 
Your  choice  of  three  convenient  ways  to  buy:  cash, 
C.o.D.  or  CREDIT.  Everything  in  our  catalog  is  abso- 
lutely guaranteed — your  money  back  if  you  are  not 
delighted.  Our  69th  year. 

NATIONAL  BELLAS  HESS 


SAVE  MONEY,  SAVE  TIME-ACT  NOW! 


NATIONAL  BELLAS  HESS 

247-33  Bellas  Hess  BIdg.,  Kansas  City,  Mo. 

Please  send  me,  free,  the  new  National  Bellas 
Hess  Money-Saving  Catalog, 


Address_ 
City 


11 


ENLARGEMENT 

o/youf  Fauofrfe  Photo 


K 


Timw 


FROM   FAMOUS  HOILVWOOD   FILM  STUDIOS 

Just    to    get    acquainted,    we    will 
[5    make  you  a  beautiful  studio  quality 
1^    5x7    enlargement    of    any    snap- 
iVi   shot,    photo   or   negative.    Be   sure 
to  include  color  of  hair,   eyes  and 
clothing,     and     get     our     Bargain 
_  Oiler    for    having    your    enlarge- 

/JIIVVIW  nient  beautifully  hand-colored  in 
oil  and  mounted  in  a  handsome  frame.  Limit  2 
to  a  customer.  Please  enclose  10<f  to  cover  cost  of 
handling  and  mailing  each  enlargement.  Original 
returned.  We  will  pay  $100.00  for  children's  or 
adults'  pictures  used  in  our  advertising.  Act  NOW ! 

HOLLYWOOD  FILM  STUDIOS.  Dept.  F-338 

7021    Santa   Monica   Blvd.,   Hollywood   38,   Calif. 


MINIATURE 

GRANDFATHER 
CLOCK 

Darling  81/2  x  2%.  Just 
like  a  grown  up  grand- 
father, imported  from  the 
Black-Forest  of  Germany. 
Enameled,  hand-made 
wooden  case,  handpainted 
with  flowers  and  leaves. 
Fine  dependable  move- 
ment, springwound.  Runs 
24  hours.  Wee  pendulum 
is  solid  brass.  The  tiny 
base  has  small  cabinet- 
like storage  space  for  key. 
Brass  weights  and  chains 
for   decoration   only. 

Clock  fully  guaranteed. 
Available  in  Navy  blue, 
light  blue,  pink,  red,  pale 
green,  black  and  ivory. 
Comes  packed  in  decora- 
tive gift-carton.  Only 
$5.00  postpaid,  tax  in- 
cluded. No  C.  O.  D. 

MER-TEX    MFG.    CO.,    INC. 
1 01  Fifth  Ave.,  New  York  3,  N.Y. 


COLON   TROUBLES 

FREE   BOOK  Tells   Facts 


AJ© 


OQlOllVt 


en^ 


Avoid 
^Dangers 
iof  Delay 


Learn  about  Colon  troubles,  Stomach  con- 
ditions. Piles  and  other  Rectal  ailments. 
Causes,  effects  and  treatment  are  explained 
in  a  130-page  book,  sent  FREE.  McCleary 
Clinic  and  Hospital,  323  Elms  Blvd.,  Excelsior 
Springs  3,  Mo. 

People  60  to  80 

COPY  DOWN  THIS  NAME 
AND  ADDRESS  NOW . . . 

.  .  .  and  write  today  to  find  out  how 
you  can  still  apply  for  a  $1,000  life 
insurance  policy  to  help  take  care 
of  final  expenses  without  burdening 
your  family.  Mail  a  postcard  or  let- 
ter, giving  your  name,  address  and 
age  to: 

Old  American  Ins.  Co. 

1  West  9th,  Dept.  L370M 

Kansas  City,  Missouri 

There  is  no  obligation — and  no 
one  will  call  on  you.  You  can  han- 
dle the  entire  transaction  by  mail. 


83 


ENIOY  A  PERMANENT, 
%BIG  PAY  CAREER  as  a 

|jA  PRACTICAL 
NURSE 


EARN  AT  HOME  WHILE  LEARNING 

FREE  SAMPLE  LESSON  shows  how  easily  you  can 
become  a  professionally  trained  practical  nurse 
by  home  study  in  a  short  time.  NO  HIGH 
SCHOOL    NEEDED.    No   oge    limit. 

FOR  FREE  LESSON  and 
FULL  INFORMATION 

r 


I  Post  Graduate  Hospital 

I  School  of  Nursing 

I  9D37  Auditorium  BIdg. 

I  Chicago  5,   Illinois 


ZOiy, 


Name. 


Address. 


City. 


.State. 


POEMS  WANTED 

■      ^^  Mam  ■  ■  ■  ^^  For  musical  setting  .  .  .  send 

^^  ^^  Poems   today.   Any  subject. 

Immediate   consideration.   Phonograph   records   made. 

CROWN  MUSIC  CO.,  49  W.32  St.,  Studio  560,  New  York  1 

CORNS 

also  Calluses.  Quick,  easy,    -,„  ■aaffc-iffifl  |«|f 


and  economical.  Just  rub 
on.  Invisible.  Jars,  35^,  60 1. 
At  your  druggist.  Money 
refunded  if  not  satisfied. 
Moss  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 


MOSCO 


500,'"'».CHILOS  Photo 


BIG  DEMAND  by  national  advertisers  for  boys  and 
girls  photos,  all  ages,  from  infants  and  up  to  18 
years.  $500  or  more  PAID  if  used  for  advertising. 
Send  ONE  small  photo  for  approval  &  FREE  GIFTS 
offer.  Print  child's  and  mother's  name,  address  on 
back.  Returned  in  two  weeks.  NO  OBLIGATION. 
.a^  HOLLYWOOD  AD-PHOTOS  -^ 
60S7'HC  Sunset  Blvd.,  Hollywood  28,  Calil. 


CHI-CHES-TERS 

#  Relieves  Monthly  Cramps 
In  9  out  of  10  Cases  I 
Get  quick,  long-lasting  relief 
from  menstrual  pain,  nervous 
tension  and  headaches  with  Chi- 
Ches-Ters.  Clinical  tests  prove 
9  out  of  10  women  do.  Money 
back  if  not  relieved.  Purse  Pak 
50^.  Economy  sizes  $1.15  and 
$2.25  at  drug  stores  or  we  will  fill  direct  orders. 
FREE  BOOKLET  of  intimate  facts  mailed  in  plain 
envelope.  Write  today:  CHICHESTER  CHEMICAL 
COMPANY,  DepL  3-8,  Philadelphia  46,  Pa. 

No  Nagging 
Backache  Means  a 
Good  Night's  Sleep 

Nagging  backache,  headaehe,  or  muscular  aches  and 
pains  may  come  on  with  over-exertion,  emotional  up- 
sets or  day  to  day  stress  and  strain.  And  follcs  who 
eat  and  drink  unwisely  sometimes  suffer  mild  bladder 
irritation...with  that  restless,  uncomfortable  feeling. 

If  you  are  miserable  and  worn  out  because  of 
these  discomforts,  Doan's  Pills  often  help  by  their 
pain  relieving  action,  by  their  soothing  effect  to  ease 
bladder  irritation,  and  by  their  mild  diuretic  action 
through  the  kidneys— tending  to  increase  the  output 
of  the  15  miles  of  kidney  tubes. 

So  if  nagging  backache  makesyou  feel  dragged-out, 
miserable,  with  restless,  .sleepless  nights,  don't  wait, 
try  Doan's  Pills,  get  the  same  happy  relief  millions 
have  enjoyed  for  over  60  years.  Ask  for  new,  large, 
economy  sizeand  gavemoney.  Get  Doan's  Fills  today  1 


My  Boy  Elvis 


(Continued  from  page  31) 
Humes  High  School,  bringing  with  him  a 
friend  from  Hollywood,  Nick  Adams.  Nick 
caught  the  spirit.  Before  a  class  of 
eleventh-  and  twelfth-graders,  he  did 
imitations  of  Hollywood  personalities.  I 
wish  you  could  have  seen  Elvis'  face  when 
the  students  applauded.  He  was  so  proud 
that  his  friend  pleased  his  "gang."  Elvis 
answered  students'  questions  for  a  long 
time.  When  he  broke  away  at  last,  he 
came  up  to  my  home  room  and  sat  down 
at  his  old  desk.  We  talked.  And,  as  he 
left,  he  kissed  me  on  the  cheek.  How 
can  a  boy  so  genuine  and  lovable  be 
accused  of  being  a  bad  influence? 

On  that  same  trip,  he  presented  a  tele- 
vision set  to  a  Memphis  teacher  to  be 
used  for  educational  purposes.  To  Humes, 
where  Elvis  felt  that  the  R.O.T.C.  classes 
helped  him  outgrow  his  awkward  age,  he 
made  a  most  important  gift.  At  a  cost  of 
about  nine  hundred  dollars,  he  is  out- 
fitting a  drill  team.  The  boys  who  wear 
those  uniforms  will  be  the  snappiest,  and 
certainly  the  proudest,  in  town.  This  gift 
means  a  great  deal  to  them  becatise  it 
comes  from  a  Humes  boy — a  boy  who  re- 
mains unchanged  by  good  fortune.  They 
respect  the  fact  that  he  neither  drinks 
nor  smokes.  They  know  of  his  deep  re- 
ligious feeling.  Yet  they  also  know  he's 
no  sissy.  He  can  stand  up  for  himself.  To 
them,  he's  just  plain  old  Elvis — one  of  the 
"Humes  Gang." 

The  first  time  I  noticed  Elvis  Presley, 
he  was  eating  an  apple.  It  sounded  good. 
Unfortunately,  however,  by  the  rules  of 
Humes  High  School,  all  limching  is  sup- 
posed to  be  confined  to  the  cafeteria. 
Elvis  knew  this  just  as  well  as  I  did.  Our 
eyes  met.  For  an  instant,  I  thought  he  was 
going  to  try  to  hide  the  apple.  Then  he 
glanced  up  again,  grinned,  and  took  a 
larger  and  even  juicier-sounding  bite.  It 
really  didn't  seem  fair  for  me  to  say  any- 
thing when  Elvis'  mouth  was  so  full  he 
couldn't  possibly  reply.  I  never  knew 
whether  the  bright  red  apple  I  found  on 
my  desk  the  next  day  came  from  him  or 
some   other   appeaser.    But   there   it   was. 

Many  of  us  around  Humes  first  recog- 
nized Elvis  through  just  some  such  little 
incident.  He  was,  during  his  first  years 
in  our  school,  a  shy  boy,  slow  to  gain  the 
feeling  that  he  belonged.  But  his  shyness 
had  a  quality  which  made  people  want  to 
know  him  better.  Now,  when  Humes 
teachers  speak  of  him,  many  say  they 
first  noticed  that,  with  Elvis,  it  was  al- 
ways, "Yes,  ma'am,"  "Yes,  sir."  He  seemed 
to  feel  that  teachers  are  people.  At  times, 
he  seemed  more  at  ease  with  us  than  he 
did  with  his  fellow  students. 

Thinking  back  now,  I  wonder  if  he 
wasn't  overly-conscious  that  he  and  his 
parents  had  just  moved  from  Tupelo,  that 
the  other  students  were  familiar  with  the 
place  and  knew  each  other,  while  he  was 
strange.  If  so,  it  was  a  typical  bit  of  teen- 
age nearsightedness.  Had  Elvis  only  real- 
ized it,  a  great  proportion  of  our  Humes 
students  had  the  same  feeling. 

For  Elvis  and  his  class  were  the  ones 
who  caught  the  brunt  of  being  what  some 
people  have  called  "the  door-key  kids." 
The  war  was  on.  Some  fathers  went  into 
service,  others  went  to  work  in  distant 
towns.  Mothers,  too,  took  jobs,  both  in 
patriotism  and  to  earn  the  money  to  better 
the  family's  way  of  living.  Many  children 
those  days  wore  a  key  swinging  on  a  string 
around  their  necks.  When  school  was 
over,  they  went  home  to  let  themselves 
into  an  empty  apartment. 

In  all  the  articles  which  now  have  been 
written  about  Elvis  and  his  background, 
you'll  find  many  descriptions  of  the  Humes 


district.  Some  people  have  called  it  a 
slum;  others  have  referred  to  it  as  a 
"distressed  area."  None  of  us  likes  this, 
for  it  is  both  unpleasant  and  xmtrue.  I 
think  a  more  accurate  description  would 
be  to  say  this  is  a  "transition  area."  It's 
not  very  far  from  the  center  of  our  lovely 
city  of  Memphis.  Beautiful,  big  old  homes 
line  some  of  these  streets.  Other  large 
homes  are  cut  up  into  rooming  houses  and 
clap -trap  apartments.  There  also  is  a 
really  pretty  housing  development,  Lau- 
derdale Court,  where  the  Presleys  eventu- 
ally lived,  though  when  they  first  moved 
from  Tupelo  to  Memphis  they  had  trouble 
finding  decent  living  quarters. 

Someone  once  said  of  Elvis,  "He  had 
every  opportunity  to  become  a  juvenile 
delinquent  and  miraculously  did  not."  The 
same  thing  might  be  said  of  a  great  many 
children  in  our  school,  but  I  wouldn't 
attribute  their  "going  straight"  to  a 
miracle.  I'd  say,  instead,  that  the  very; 
fact  that  many  high-school  students  do 
need  to  work  and  want  to  work  had  quite 
a  bit  to  do  with  it.  Such  a  child  feels 
important  and  needed. 

But  it  has  its  costs,  and  sometimes  they 
are  high.  I'll  not  forget  the  time  when  I 
was  aware  that  Elvis  was  working  too 
hard.  He  was  in  my  home  room,  by  then, 
and  he  also  was  in  one  of  my  histot-y 
classes.  One  thing  I've  always  been  very  i 
strict  about  is  the  matter  of  sleeping  in 
class.  Nothing  can  spread  yawns  and 
boredom  so  fast  from  row  to  row.  But  the 
day  came  when  Elvis  fell  asleep  in  class. 
I  chose  to  ignore  it.  Rules  are  sometimes 
best  ignored,  particularly  when  they  are 
rules  which  you  have  made  yourself. 

That  day,  when  the  class  bell  shrilled, 
Elvis,  like  a  little  boy,  raised  his  head,  got 
to  his  feet  and  wandered  out  like  a 
sleepwalker.  I  later  learned  that  the  Pres- 
leys were  having  a  pretty  rough  time  just 
then.  Elvis,  to  help  out,  was  working  in  a 
factory  from  3  P.M.  until  11:30  P.M.  every 
night.  I  think  of  this,  sometimes,  when  I 
see  him  criticized  for  buying  another  new 
car.  Personally,  I'm  glad  for  everything 
beautiful  which  that  boy — or  any  of  my 
boys — is  able  to  get. 

Knowing  how  hard  our  students  work 
for  their  education  puts  an  extra  responsi- 
bility on  us  who  teach  at  Humes.  We 
want,  most  of  all,  to  make  this  a  place 
where  they  find  not  only  learning,  but  also 
enjoyment  and  peace.  Our  principal,  Mr. 
T.  C.  Brindley,  and  our  assistant  principal, 
Miss  Eleanor  Richmond,  work  unceasingly 
to  bring  this  about.  Mr.  Brindley  knows 
how  to  make  rules  and  also  when  to 
rescind  them.  He  knows  when  to  be  firm 
and  when  to  lend  a  helping  hand. 

Often,  that  help  involves  a  little  revolv- 
ing fund  which  we  have  at  Humes.  We 
make  a  special  effort  to  hold  down  the 
extra-curricular  activities  which  might 
cost  students  more  than  they  can  afford. 
But,  once  something  is  scheduled,  we  also 
try  to  make  it  possible  for  every  student 
to  participate.  If  a  boy  or  girl  can't  afford 
to  go  to  a  dance— or  if  he  lacks  lunch 
money  or  needs  a  new  suit— he  goes  in 
and  has  a  quiet  talk  with  Mr.  Brindley. 
The  problem  is  solved  and  no  one  is  the 
wiser.  Knowing  this,  all  the  students  take 
a  very  special  pride  in  participating  in 
those  activities  which  produce  the  money 
to  build  up  the  fund. 

Elvis  began  to  come  out  of  his  shell  by 
his  junior  year.  We  had  grown  accus- 
tomed to  those  sideburns  which  he  sported 
in  defiance  of  the  other  boys'  trend  toward 
crew  cuts.  He  was  growing  handsome  and, 
with  those  nice  maimers  of  his,  the  girls 
were  beginning  to  regard  him  as  some- 
thing   special.      In    shop     classes,     where 


Humes  endeavors  to  give  the  students  ac- 
tual occupational  training,  he  was  applying 
himself  v^'ith  fervor.  In  academic  studies, 
he  did  fairly  well. 

I  first  found  out  Elvis  could  sing  when 
someone  suggested  that  he  bring  his 
guitar  to  our  home-room  picnic.  While 
the  other  students  were  dashing  around 
Overton  Park  playing  games  and  generally 
working  off  their  high  spirits,  Elvis  sat  by 
himself,  plunking  softly  on  that  guitar. 
The  other  students  began  to  gather  around. 
There  was  something  about  his  quiet, 
plaintive  singing  which  drew  them  like  a 
magnet.  It  wasn't  the  rock  and  roll  for 
which  he  later  became  famous,  but  was 
much  more  like  "Love  Me  Tender."  En- 
couraged by  knowing  that  the  other  stu- 
dents wanted  to  hear  him,  he  went  on 
and   on,   singing  his  young   heart   out. 

In  his  senior  year,  Elvis  sang  for  his 
first  "big"  audience — the  1,500  people  who 
crowded  our  auditorium  for  our  variety 
show,  rtm  annually  as  a  benefit  for  the 
Humes  fund  I've  mentioned.  As  producer 
of  that  show,  I  found  I  had  almost  too 
much  talent  available.  When  I  listed  them 
all,  there  were  more  than  thirty  acts. 
More  acts  than  time,  really.  And  what 
about  encores?  I  solved  the  problem  by 
calling  the  cast  together  and  making  a 
little  speech.  "We  just  do  not  have  that 
many  minutes,"  I  told  them.  "People 
would  be  here  all  night.  So  let's  be  fair. 
We'll  have  just  one  encore.  The  person 
who  gets  the  most  applause  can  go  out 
again  at  the  end  of  the  show." 

Backstage  that  night,  tension  mounted 
higher  than  it  ever  had.  As  students  do, 
each  one  when  he  came  off  stage,  pre- 
tended not  to  care.  They'd  say,  "Boy! 
Was  I  lousy!"  And,  to  another,  "Kid,  you 
were  the  most.  You'll  get  it  for  sure."  But 
a  teacher  who  knows  her  teenagers  could 
tell.    Each  one  of  them   hoped. 

And,  by  now,  you  know  who  got  it. 
Elvis  was  standing  alone  at  the  edge  of 
the  stage,  half-hidden  by  the  curtain, 
when  I  told  him.  "It's  you,  Elvis,  go 
on  back  out  there." 

I  know  that  first  success  continues  to 
mean  something  to  Elvis,  for  he  has  re- 
turned twice  to  appear  on  the  show  as 
our  guest  star.  The  last  time,  he  brought 
his  band  with  him.  Of  course  we  sold  out 
solid   for   both  performances. 

I'm  particularly  glail  that  Humes  is  con- 
tinually important  to  Elvis,  because  Elvis 
is  important  to  Humes.  Seeing  Elvis 
succeed  is  an  incentive  to  all.  The 
students  feel  that,  if  Elvis  did  it,  they 
can,  too. 

They  bring  me  little  stories  about  him, 
too.  One  is  typically  our  Elvis.  He  was 
walking  down  the  midway  at  the  fair,  on 
one  of  his  trips  back  home.  A  very  tiny 
girl  was  carrying  a  bottle  of  perfume  she 
had  won  at  some  booth.  Noticing  her, 
Elvis  stopped  and  said,  "Let  me  smell  it." 
The  child's  face  clouded  as  she  confessed, 
"It  doesn't  have  any  smell."  Elvis  patted 
her  on  the  head.  "It  doesn't  matter, 
honey,"  he  said.  "You're  sweet  enough 
for  both." 

For  the  sake  of  the  Humes  students,  as 
well  as  his  own  sake,  I'm  glad  Elvis  wants 
to  be  an  actor.  He  has  common  sense 
enough  to  realize  all  times  cannot  be  peak 
times.  Dreamer  though  he  is,  he  realizes 
new  learning  in  new  fields  will  bring  him 
new  security.  Elvis,  like  the  students  who 
are  still  in  school,  has  something  to  work 
toward. 

Elvis  a  bad  influence?  If  I  believed  for 
one  moment  that  this  boy  was  under- 
mining the  strength  and  morality  of  our 
youth,  I  would  not  hesitate  to  tell  him  so 
myself.  But  I  saw  him  as  a  decent- 
thinking,  right-living,  generous  and  kind 
person.  And  I  am  convinced  he  will  re- 
main as  he  is  today — one  of  my  very 
own  boys. 


It's  the  right  moment, 
everything   is  perfect  . 


Does  your  smile  say,    Kiss  me?" 

Some  teeth  are  naturally  Hard-to-Bryten! 

lodent  No.  2  is  made  and  guaranteed  by  a 
Dentist  especially  for  such  Hard-to-Bryten  teeth. 
It  contains  a  scientific  amount  of  supergraded 
polishing  agents  to  safely  remove  the  clinging 
film  of  food  stains  and  smoke  smudges  which 
other  toothpastes  do  not  remove. 

Safe,  efFective  lodent  No.  2  stays  on  the  brush 
longer,  gives  more  cleansing  action.  Tastes 
good,  too,  v/ith  a  breath  freshener  that  lasts 
and  lasts. 

Just  a  few  brushings  will  restore  the  beauty 
of  naturally  white  teeth  and  a  radiantly 
confident  smile. 


MADE 
A 
DENTIST 


FOR  TEETH  EASY-TO-BRYTEN 


USE  lODENT  NO.  1 


^omACHej 


DENrS 


'For  Quick  Relief 
Ask  your  Druggist  for 


TOOTH  GUM 
TOOTH  OROrS 
LOTION-JEl 


WALLET  Size  2V2  X  3V2  On 
PORTRAIT  aUALITY  PAPER 

Just  pennies  per  picture  for 
beautiful  portrait-quality 
reproductions  of  your  own  favorite 
photograph.  Send  one  portrait  or 
snapshot  (returned  unharmed) 
And  money  to: 
WALLET  PHOTOS,  BOX  Q-7 
Hillside,  N.l. 


In  a  hurry?  Send  25c  extra 
for  Super-Speed  service. 


MONEY  BACK  GUARANTEE 


We  pay  postage 


SEW  Ih-oVs 

^^  at  home!  $40  week  possible. 
We  contact  stores  for   you." 
TINY-TOT  CO.,  Gallipolis  47,   Ohio 

$4,000.00  FOR  Sc 

OLD  MONEY 
WANTED 

f  4,000.00  for  1913  Liberty  Head  Nickel.  Uncirculated 
)ollars  1804  to  1839,  1893-S,  1895-P,  1903-O  pay 
$100.00 — $5,000.00.  Certain  dates — Small  Cents 
before  1915 — $325.00;  Dimes  before  1917 — 
$2,000.00;  Quarters  before  1924 — $1,000.00:  Half 
Dollars  before  1905— $1,000.00;  2c  pieces— $70.00; 
3c  pieces — $90.00;  Half  dimes — $500.00.  Hundreds 
of  others  worth  $10.00  —  $1,000.00.  Canadian 
Coins— 1921— 5c  Silver,  $50.00.  1889— Dimes— 
$25.00.  1875  Quarters— $50.00.  1921— 50c— $200.00. 
Wanted — 20c  Pieces.  Gold  Coins,  Paper  Money,  etc. 
Our  Large  Illustrated  Guarantee  Buying — Selling  Cata- 
logue, Giving  Complete  AUcoin  Inlormation — Send 
$1.00.  Purchase  Catalogue  before  sending  coins. 
Worthycoin  Corporation,  Leaders  Numismatic  Quota- 
tions K-664-C.  Bcston  8,  Massachusetts. 


Make.  Jt  EoAtf  with  New,  Different 

Tall  Occasion  GREETING  CARDS 


*  Guoranteed  by 
1  Good  Housekeeping 


s«o,. 


^*«W[IIIS10 


For  Prompt  Action! 


Keep  on  making  money  in  spare  hours  12  months 
of  the  year.  Show  friends  famous  Cardinal 
TALL  Greeting  Cards  and  Gifts  they  need  for 
birthdays,  anniversaries,  party  prizes  and  gift  occa- 
sions. Make  60c  a  box — $60  on  100  sensational  new 
"Four-Style"  Ensembles  of  24  birthday,  other 
cards- 4  different  assortments  in  one  $1.25  box! 
ISO  More  Money-Makers 
Here  Is  everything  that's  new,  fastest  selling, 
most  profitable  for  you!  New  Studio  Designs,  ''^ Cardinal  Craftsmen 
Color  Photo  Cards,  Comics,  Religious  Cards,  .^  140O  State  Avenue 
dozens  of  novel  Gift  Items.  Profits  to  100%  .^V-"®-'"-  .?'?1'  „u- 
plus  Extra  Cash  Bonus.  No  experience  ne-  Xpie^^rjeTd  sample  out'fit  on 
cessary.  Send  coupon  now  for  sample  out-  •approval  and  Mixer  Set  as  a 
fit  on  approval  with  FREE  Personal  Sta-  •  promptness  Gift 
tionery  samples.  $1.25  "MIXER"  Set 
included  FREE  for  prompt  action! 


MAIL  FOR 
SAMPLES 


^  Name^ 
Address 


1400StateA¥e..Dep'..s-29  Cincinnati  14, Ohio  ^  ^^l^ ^ti-,^-^-^-^-^-^-^^-:^-^ 


85 


Coni,Callous,Bunion 
P^in  Stops! 


zNERVED£B0 
^RELIEF!  ^ 


No  waiting  for  relief  when 
you  use  Dr.  SchoU's  Zino-pads. 
They  stop  pain  at  its  source  .  .  , 
ease  new  or  tight  shoes  . . .  remove 
corns,  callouses  one  of  the  quickest 
ways  known  to  medical  science. 
New  skin-matching  color;  worn 
invisibly.  Try  themi  At  Drug, 
Shoe,  Department,  5-lOd  Stores. 


DrScholls 

Zino-pads 


CALLOUSES 


Pepper  Young's  Wife 


i  No  classes  to  attend.  Easy  spare-time  train- 
l  ing  covers  big  choice  of  subjects.  Friendly  \ 
1  instructors;  sundard  texts.  Full  credit  fori 
previous  schooling.     Diploma  awarded.] 
Write  now  for  FREE  catalog! 

I  WAYNE    SCHOOL    Catalog  HH-44  , 
2527 SheHield  Ave.,  Chrtago  l»,lllinoU^ 


©4jlet 


IPS  SORE? 


POCKET  SIZE 

39c 


;BE§T  FOR 
,    COLD 


LIPS 


rt>C£       MATERNITY 
ritCC  STYLE  CATALOG 


BIG  96-paKe  illustrated  catalog.  Hun- 
dreds of  exclusive,  economy-priced 
Maternity  Fashions.  FREE  GIFT  CfHECK 
with  catalog  gives  EXTRA  discounts  on 
first  order.  World's  largest  selections  — 
Maternity  dresses,  suits,  separates,  sports- 
wear, girdles,  Ijras,  lingerie.  $1.00  to  $20.00. 
Write  TODAY-CRAWFORD'S 
35,    8015  Wornall  Rd.,  Kansas  City  14,  Missoun 


Oept. 


ANY  PHOTO  ENLARGED 

Size  8  X  lO  Inches 


67- 


on  DOUBLE-WEIGHT  Paper 

Same  price  for  full  length  or  host 
form,  groups,  landscapes,  pet  ani- 
mals, etc.,  or  enlargements  of  any 
part  of  a  rtoop  picture.  Original  is 
returned  with  yoor  enlateement. 

SendNoMoney  Sfor^po 

Just  mail  photo,  negative  or  snap- 
shot (any  size)  and  receive  your  enlargement, 
guaranteed  fadeless. on  beautiful  double-weight 
portrait  quality  paper.  Pay  postman  67c  plus 
postage— or  send  69c  with  order  and  we  pay  post-  ^    ^      ^     . 

age.  Take  advantageofthisamazing  offer.  Send  your  photos  today. 

Professional  Art  Studios.  544  S.  Main,  Dept  37-C,  PrincBton,  lilinois 


'""^".'0",^  PSORIASIS 

(SCALY    SKIN    TRaUBLEI 


SPOTt 

TEST. 


I^DCRmOIL 


SEE  FOR  YOURSELF 
no  matter  how  long  you 
have  sudered.  Write  for 
i  FREE  book  on  Psoriasis 
DERMOIL  with 
,  actual  "before — after" 
I  photo  record  of  results. 


Setu/ffvr 
vGENEROUS 

Atrial 

SIZE 


86 


Don't  be  enibarraes«cl 
with  Psoriasis,  the  ugly, 
scaly    skin   disease.    Try 
nan -staining    DERMOIL. 

Amazing  results  reported 

for  over  22  yearsl  Many 

grateful   users   report   the 

scaly  red  patches  on  body  ^^,^^^_^    ...,,„ 

or  scalp  gradually  disappeared  and  they 

again  enjoyed  the  thrill  of  a  smooth  clear  skin.  DERMOII< 

formula  Ls  u?ed   by   many  doctors.    Must  give  deflnlte 

benefit  or  your  money  back.  Make  our  famous  "One  .Spot 

Test"!    SEND  10c  tor  trial  bottle.  DERMOIL  Bold  at 

Liggett  and  Walgreen  and  other  leading  Drug  Stores. 

Write  today  LAKE  LABORATORIES  Dept. 2904 

Box    3925    Stratttmoor     Station.     Detroit    27.     Mich. 


(CoTitinMcd  irom  page  37) 
There  were  five  of  us  children  all  growirig 
up  together  in  a  nice,  respectable  home  in 
Salt  Lake  City.  I  wasn't  exactly  horn  a 
young  matron.  But  I  did  start  baby-sitting 
at  the  age  of  six!" 

This  wholesome  and  utterly  undramatic 
background,  which  would  ordinarily  eqtiip 
a  girl  for  a  successful  career  as  chief 
cook  and  baby-bottle-washer  in  her  own 
little  home,  in  Margaret's  case  produced 
a  sensitive  and  talented  artist  who  per- 
forms with  equal  skill  on  radio  and  TV, 
stage  and  screen.  Dramatic  courses  at 
the  University  of  Utah,  plus  a  trick  or  two 
in  summer  stock,  certainly  contributed 
smoothness  and  assurance  to  her  tech- 
nique. But  Margaret  believes  that  her 
pleasantly  unexceptional  childhood  is  what 
prepared  her  to  give  a  perceptive  and 
plausible  performance  in  the  sort  of  role 
she's  most  often  asked  to  play. 

When  Margaret  first  came  to  New  York 
to  make  her  assault  on  Broadway — with 
a  brand-new  Bachelor  of  Arts  degree  from 
Utah  U.  and  thirty-eight  dollars  in  solid 
cash — she  found  the  going  a  little  rough. 
But  some  "solid  Irish  stubbornness  plus 
a  great  many  letters-of -application"  finally 
won  her  a  place  with  the  Provincetown 
Players  and  she  was  on  her  way! 

Next  came  a  break  with  the  Theater 
Guild  in  the  road  company  of  "Papa  Is 
All,"  a  part  in  the  Actors'  Equity  pro- 
duction of  "Peer  Gynt"  (she  was  voted  one 
of  the  most  promising  actresses  of  the  year 
for  that  performance),  and  radio  stardom 
as  Liz  Dennis  in  The  Brighter  Day.  Then, 
about  two  years  ago,  when  the  part  of 
Linda  Pepper  was  being  cast,  Margaret 
"Perfect  Wife"  Draper  was  asked  to  au- 
dition— and  won  the  role. 

In  private  life,  Margaret  became  the 
wife  of  actor  Joe  De  Santis  in  1950 — and 
mother  of  little  Christopher  Courtney  De 
Santis  in  1951.  Her  home  is  a  charming, 
contemporary  apartment  (Margaret  calls  it 
"comfortably  modern")  on  Manhattan's 
Central  Park  West,  featuring  several  fine 
pieces  of  sculpture  by  Joe,  a  number  of 
sketches  and  portraits  by  Margaret — and 
a  steady  stream  of  five-year-old  visitors 
invited  by  Chris. 

By  all  odds,  Margaret's  most  ardent 
admirer  is  her  son  Chris.  She  may  have 
been  "wife"  to  many  men,  but  she's  just 
one  man's  mother,  and  to  this  handsome 
lad  of  some  five-and-a-half  summers  she 
is  the  most  fascinating  woman  in  the 
world.  Not,  you  understand,  because  she's 
a  famous  star — but  because  "she  can  read 
'Little  Lulu'  better'n  anybody!" 

"Chris  is  not  a  precocious  child,"  Mar- 
garet says  of  her  son  (who  actually  has 
a  strictly  upper-echelon  I.Q.  and  began 
to  read  at  the  age  of  two!),  "but  he's  alert 
and  observant  .  .  .  and  he  has  the  right  in- 
stincts." As  an  example,  she  tells  of  his 
reaction  to  the  brilliant  woman  assigned 
to  teach  his  five-year-old  class  at  Hunter 
College's  very  special  school  for  excep- 
tional children.  This  truly  dedicated 
teacher,  Margaret  explains,  is  "a  wide, 
wonderful  person  about  sixty  years  old, 
with  a  face  like  the  late  Gertrude  Stein's 
and  a  Marie  Dressler-ish  sort  of  figure." 
Yet  young  Chris,  rushing  home  to  report 
on  his  first  day  back  in  school,  said: 
"Mommy,  my  new  teacher  is  a  kind  and 
beautiful  lady." 

"And,  of  course,  in  the  deepest  sense, 
he  was  right!"  adds  Margaret,  who  has  a 
very  real  sense  of  appreciation  for  the 
imsung  and  undersalaried  heroines  of 
our  country's  classrooms.  She  has  done 
a  good  bit  of  thinking  and  reading  on  the 
subject  of  education — she  can  quote  fluent- 
ly   and    verbatim    from    all    sorts    of    au- 


il 


thorities,  ranging  from  Gesell  to  Jacques 
Barzun — and  she  truly  believes  that  the 
development  and  encouragement  of  fine  _ 
teachers  is  the  crying  need  in  America ' 
today.  "I  can't  actually  be  a  teacher,"  she 
says  regretfully,  "because  I  don't  have  the 
training  or  the  temperament.  But  I  can 
and  will  do  everything  in  my  power  to 
make  the  sailing  smoother  for  our  chil- 
dren's educators." 

As  a  step  in  this  direction,  Margaret 
last  year  accepted  the  role  of  Class  Mother 
for  The  Fours  at  Chris's  school.  In  this 
capacity,  she  attended  parent-teacher 
meetings,  chairmanned  the  cookie  com- 
mittee, worked  in  the  music  library — and 
even,  for  a  few  weeks,  substituted  in  class  , 
for  one  of  the  assistant  teachers  who  was 
out  with  the  flu.  Here,  Margaret's  dra- 
matic readings  of  such  items  as  "The  Pop- 
corn Dragon,"  "Wee  Willie  Winkie"  and 
"The  Little  Train  Who  Won  a  Medal"  were 
received  with  overwhelming  audience 
enthusiasm  and  many  high-pitched  cries 
of  "Do  it  again,  please!" 

Although  young  Chris  prefers  reading 
to  radio  ("He'U  read  anything  from  Don- 
ald Duck  to  a  dissertation  on  archeology"), 
he  does  like  to  tune  in  on  "Mommy's 
program"  {Pepper  Young's  Family,  of 
course) . 

"He  adores  to  chat  with  grownups,  too," 
Margaret  adds.  "He's  always  buttonhol- 
ing a  bus  driver  or  striking  up  a  conver- 
sation with  the  guard  at  the  Museum  of 
Natural  History,  which  is  one  of  his  fav- 
orite haunts."  She  confesses  that,  in  the 
pre -Christopher  phase  of  her  life,  she 
wasn't  exactly  well  informed  on  matters 
pertaining  to  science  and  natural  history: 
"I  didn't  know  a  Stegosaurus  from  a  Stein- 
way — but  I'm  learning.  A  few  more  visits 
to  the  Hall  of  Dinosaurs  and  I'll  be  callingj 
all  those  prehistoric  monsters  by  their' 
first  names!" 

In  some  ways,  Margaret  feels  that  the 
private  life  she's  now  leading — "I'm  sort 
of  a  Main-Street  matron  from  Manhattan"  i 
— enhances  her  understanding  of  the| 
wifely  parts  she's  given.  But  she  also  be- 
lieves that  her  experiences  as  an  actress 
increase  her  understanding  of  people  and 
situations  encountered  in  reality,  andi 
help  her  in  solving  personal  problems. 

There  are  times,  she  admits,  when  thi 
similarity  between  truth  and  fiction  csin' 
be  painfully  close.  The  trouble  that  is 
now  tormenting  Pepper  Young's  Linda  re- 
calls all  too  sharply  a  tragic  time  in  the 
life  of  Margaret's  own  family — when  her 
brother  was  held  a  prisoner  in  the  Philip- 
pines and  was  finally  lost.  "In  fotir  years," 
she  recalls,  "my  parents  received  only  three 
letters,  though  he  must  have  written  hun- 
dreds." 

Linda's  fictional  dilemma  has  to  do 
with  the  startling  reappearance  of  her  first 
husband,  whose  imprisonment  and  death 
overseas  during  World  War  II  had  been 
officially  announced  by  the  War  Depart- 
ment. It  is  easy  for  Margaret  to  convey 
the  compassion  and  sympathy  Linda  feels 
for  this  man,  Jeff,  who  is  the  helpless  vic- 
tim of  the  hideous  circumstances  of  war. 
It  is  not  easy  for  her  to  be  reminded,  so 
poignantly  and  repeatedly,  of  her  own  per- 
sonal loss. 

Nevertheless,  Margaret  is  an  actress  who 
turns  in  a  completely  understanding,  com- 
pletely professional  performance  every 
time — even  if  her  assignment  is  simply 
to  read  a  bedtime  story  to  Chris.  Acting,* 
to  her,  is  not  only  a  proud  profession  buti 
a  way  of  life.  ' 

"I  suppose,"  she  muses,  "I  might  some- 
day give  up  my  professional  career.  It's 
conceivable  that  I  could.  But  I'll  never 
give  up  acting!" 


;s 

I 

nf 


I 


Singing  Fool 


(Continued  from  page   45) 
and  soon  the  Clarks  were  out  of  iDUsiness. 
Economic  worries  and  harassments  shat- 
tered  the   serenity   of  their   home. 

The  boy  did  not  vmderstand  what  was 
happening.  All  he  knew  was  that  a  sud- 
den end  had  come  to  these  thrilling  nights 
when  he  would  sit  at  the  feet  of  his  par- 
ents, snug,  warm  and  safe,  and  listen  to 
spine-tingling  tales  of  his  Indian  fore- 
bears. For,  although  his  father  was  Dutch 
and  his  mother  Irish,  there  was  Indian 
blood  in  both,  almost  one-fourth  on 
Geneva's  side.  He  loved  those  stories  of 
war  and  peace.  They  were  as  familiar  to 
him  as  the  very  furniture  of  the  house, 
and  now  there  would  be  no  more  of 
them.  ...  No  more  stories  of  how  his 
great-grandparents  turned  from  Indian 
ways  to  seek  prosperity  as  farmers  ...  no 
more  adventures  and  exploits  of  a  pa- 
ternal great-grandfather  who  was  the  first 
effective  "peace  officer"  of  Oklahoma.  The 
freckled  nine-year-old,  with  the  blue  eyes 
that  change  to  green  and  gray  with  the 
changing  light,  had  to  learn  the  bitter 
lesson  of  submission  to  the  wayward 
winds  of  fortune.  He  followed  his  mother, 
tugging  at  her  hand,  to  the  home  of  her 
father. 

Those  were  lean  times  in  Oklahoma,  and 
very  soon  Grandpa  Pool  came  to  a  de- 
cision. They  would  try  their  luck  in 
Phoenix,  Arizona.  This  was  a  period  of 
great  excitement  in  the  family — and,  for 
the  boy  Sanford,  a  time  of  deepening  in- 
security. Bewildered  and  scared,  he 
watched  the  packing  of  belongings  and 
the  gathering  of  the  brood  ...  a  rather 
large  brood,  since  Geneva  had  six 
brothers  and  sisters  younger  than  herself 
— including  Dan  Pool,  who  was  only  ten 
months  older  than  Sanford  but  already 
invested  with  the  superiority  of  an  uncle. 

"When  I  think  back  on  it,"  Geneva 
Clark  says  now,  "I  realize  this  is  a  boy 
who  had  to  grow  up  responsible.  That 
was  a  sad  time  for  a  little  boy,  but  al- 
ready he  worried  more  about  others  than 
himself.  I  came  into  the  house  one  day 
and  saw  him  looking  at  his  face  in  the 
mirror.  When  I  asked  him  what  he  was 
doing,  he  said,  'I  wanted  to  see  if  I  was 
getting  to  look  like  an  Indian.'  And,  when 
I  asked  him  why,  he  answered,  'Mom,  I 
feel  sorry  for  the  poor  Indians.  I  wish 
there  were  some  way  I  could  help.' " 

It  was  during  those  days,  when  Sanford 
attended  the  Murphy  Grade  School  in 
Phoenix,  that  he  was  recruited  to  sing  a 
soprano  part  in  "The  Grand  Canyon,"  an 
operetta  which  he  dimly  recalls  as  having 
been  written  by  one  of  his  teachers. 

"I  can  still  feel  my  blood  turn  to  ice," 
Sanford  recalls  wryly,  "as  I  waited  my 
turn  to  pass  through  the  ocean  of  curious 
faces.  The  signal  came.  I  literally  bolted 
up  the  aisle  and  onto  the  stage.  I  looked 
out  at  a  thousand  spinning  faces,  opened 
my  mouth — and  gulped.  Nothing  came 
out!  Not  a  note,  not  a  squeak!  I'd  for- 
gotten my  lines.  Summoning  the  last 
ounce  of  my  courage,  I  yelled  to  the 
pianist.  'Stop!  Stop!  I  forgot!'  The  music 
halted,  and  a  good-natured  tittering  arose 
from  the  audience.  But  to  me,  it  sounded 
like  the  crash  of  a  million  windows." 

His  mother  remembers  that  Sanford  tot- 
tered to  the  wings,  where  he  was  prompted 
in  his  part  and  shoved  back  on.  Pale  and 
miserable,  he  stood  there  with  eyes  tight 
shut  and  sang  his  lines.  "I  tried  to  com- 
fort him,"  Geneva  says.  "I  said  nothing 
mattered  except  that  he  had  the  spunk  to 
go  on  and  see  it  through.  His  teacher  tried 
to  joke  him  out  of  it.  He  told  him  he'd 
heard  of  music  stopping  a  singer  but  this 
was  the  first  time  he'd  heard  of  a  singer 
stopping    the    music.     Sanford    shook    his 


head    and    cried.    He    was    inconsolable." 

Nevertheless,  this  did  not  retard  San- 
ford's  interest  in  music  for  its  own  sake. 
At  eleven,  he  was  the  proud  owner  of  a 
guitar.  Money  being  short,  lessons  were 
rather  spasmodic  and  he  learned  to  play 
mainly  by  ear. 

Another  form  of  art  had  caught  his 
fancy  about  this  time  and,  for  several 
terms  at  Phoenix  Technical  High  School, 
he  was  "up  to  his  neck"  in  courses  that 
might  help  him  become  a  commercial 
artist.  He  can't  remember  exactly  why 
this  interest  languished — but  then  his  so- 
journ in  high  school  was,  he  admits,  "no 
great  shakes."  He  was  only  zm  average 
student  and  was  discouraged  from  trying 
for  football.  "Too  gangly  and  thin,"  the 
coach  said.  After  failing  to  make  the 
tennis  team,  he  decided  to  settle  for 
R.O.T.C.,  and  became  one  of  the  Color 
Guard    that    opened   football    games. 

"The  big  things  in  my  boyhood,"  San- 
ford reminisces,  "were  my  bike  and  my 
dog  'Butch,'  my  guitar  and  my  rifle.  Mom 
bought  me  the  bike  for  my  eleventh 
birthday.  It  was  se^o^id-hand  and  pretty 
beat  up,  but  I  thought  it  was  the  most 
beautiful  thing  I  ever  saw.  I  painted  it 
royal  blue,  saved  enough  money  to  buy 
a  basket  for  the  handlebars,  and  then  set 
out  to  make  my  fortune.  I  would  take 
shopping  orders  for  our  neighbors  and 
deliver  to  their  doors.  My  reward  was 
usually  a  nickel  tip.  One  day  I  got  a 
dime  and  I  rode  home  feeling  like  Rocke- 
feller. I  tried  to  give  all  I  made  to  Mom, 
but  she  wouldn't  take  it.  She  made  me 
save,  and  that's  how  I  got  my  second 
wish — a  guitar. 

"Dan — my  uncle,  if  you  can  call  a 
fellow  less  than  a  year  older  an  uncle! — 
and  I  bought  guitars  at  the  same  time. 
We  were  living  in  a  housing  development 
in  Phoenix  and,  for  hours  at  a  stretch, 
we'd  prance  arovmd  the  buildings,  play- 
ing cowboy  tunes.  We  got  a  lot  of  dirty 
looks  for  our  pains,  but  we  had  one  loyal 
admirer.  That  was  my  first  girl,  Susie,  a 
neighbor's  child.  She  would  follow  at  our 
heels,  clapping  hands  and  begging,  'More, 
Sanford — more!'  I  guess,"  Sanford  added 
with  a  grin,  "you  might  say  she  was  my 
first  fan,   too." 

The  rifle  was  acquired  when  he  visited 
his  father  in  Tulsa.  It  was  a  joyful  re- 
union: "Dad  bought  me  my  first  rifle, 
which  I  still  keep  oiled  and  polished.  He 
taught  me  to  shoot  and  took  me  out  htint- 
ing.  He  also  taught  me  the  principles  of 
good  sportsmanship,  to  kill  only  as  many 
rabbits  and  birds  as  were  needed  for  food. 
We  had  some  great  times  together." 

The  dog?  Sanford  suddenly  loses  his 
look  of  eager  remembering;  he  thrusts  a 
hand  roughly  through  his  hair.  "Let 
Mom  tell  it,"  he  mutters.  Mrs.  Clark,  who 
has  gone  to  the  window  and  is  staring  out 
at  the  pleasant  residential  street  stamped 
with  all  the  traits  of  lower  middle -class 
subtirbanism,  doesn't  turn  as  she  says: 
"Well  ...  he  always  had  some  kind  of 
dog,  and  he  always  called  it  Butch.  No 
matter  what  the  name  was,  to  him  it  was 
Butch.  The  last  Butch  was  his  favorite. 
I  think  it  was  the  thing  he  held  most 
dear.  Let  me  see,"  she  puckers  her  brow 
thoughtfiilly,  "it  was  a  black  and  white 
mongrel  with  a  trick  of  sitting  up  and 
fanning  the  air  with  both  paws  when  it 
was    trying    to    get    attention. 

"Sanford  was  never  without  his  Butch. 
It  followed  him  to  school  like  Mary's 
lamb,  and  it  waited  in  the  school  yard 
until  he  got  out  so  that  it  could  see  him 
home.  It  slept  in  his  bed.  And  then — 
well,  it  ran  out  into  the  road  one  day  and 
a  truck  passed  over  its  poor  little  body. 
When  Sanford  got  out  of  school  that  day, 


Special  New  Tablet 

Relieves  Monthly  Cramps 

for  3  out  of4  in  Tests! 


Amazing  new  formula  developed 

especially  for  female  distress  gives 

greater  relief  than  aspirin! 

If  you  dread  those  "difficiilt  days"  each 
month,  listen!  Science  has  developed  a 
special  new  tablet  to  relieve  pain,  cramps,  . 
and  tense  feelings  of  monthly  periods! 
It  contains  a  unique  combination  of  medi- 
cines— including  blood-building  iron. 
Thus  offers  more  relief  than  plain  aspirin! 

In  doctors'  tests  painful  distress  was 
relieved  for  3  out  of  4  women!  Many 
didn't  suffer  even  on  the  first  day!  They 
also  escaped  much  of  the  jitters  and  un- 
happy tension  so  common  as  you  ap- 
proach that  trjring  time  of  month. 

So  don't  suffer  needlessly.  Ask  for 
"Lydia  Pinkham  Tablets"  at  drug  stores. 
No  prescription  needed.  See  if  they  don't 
help  you  feel  worlds  better — both  before 
and  during  your  period! 


;ioo1>o    SONGWRITERS 

?  I  1/  W  •  TO  THE  WmTER  Of  8IST  SOW  SEIKTED   EACH  MONTH 


Send  songs,  poems.Re  cords,  copies  furnished.  Let  us  help  you  be 

^HotwwooD  TUNESMiTHs  "°;:;;;L?;T^.°;fh!^ 


me 

Booklet 


MARVEL  CO. 


Dru| 
'  Counters 
rtvorwhefi 

1331W  East  St.,  New  Haven,  Conn. 


SHEETS,  TOASTERS, 
TOWELS,  MIXERS,etc. 
GIVEN  TO  YOU  FREE! 

Hundreds  of  famous,  na- 
tionally advertised  produas 
to  choose  from — furniture, 
rugs,  lamps,  slip  covers,  sil- 
verware, china,  draperies. 
You  get  450.00  —  JlOO.OO 
and  more  in  merchandise 
just  by  being  Secretary  of  a 
Popular  Club  you  help  your 
friends  form.  It's  easy  I  It's 
fun !  Nothing  to  sell,  noth- 
ing to  buy.  Write  today. 


Popular  Club  Plon,  Dept.K-932.Lynbrook,  N.Y.  |         j 

Send  Big  FREE  276-Pa9e  FULL-COLOR  Catalog  |         y 

Name ~ |  R 

Address -  I 

j!city....j^......j.... .j...^...^ .^^ .^tate | 


II -Minute  Miracle  Gives 
//New  LIFE 


BLONDE 
HAIR! 


Special  Shampoo  Washes  Hair  Shades  Lighter, 
Safely. . .  Gives  It  Wonderful,  Radiant  Shine  I 

It's  almost  miraculous  how,  without  tints,  rinses  or  ugty 
bleached  look,  you  can  now  safely  give  your  hair  the  spar- 
kling blonde  color  that  men  love.  You  can  do  it  quickly,  easily, 
Qt  home  in  just  II  minutes— with  BLONDEX.  This  amazing 
shampoo  contains  ANDIUM  for  extra  lightness  and  shine. 
Instantly  removes  dingy  film  that  mokes  hair  dark.  Washes 
blonde  hair  shades  lighter.  Gives  it  lovely  lustre.  Safe  for 
children.  Get  BLONDEX  today  at10c,,drug  or  dept.  stores. 

SONGWRITERS! 

PROTECT  YOUR  IDEAS!   HOLD  ALL  SONGS.  POEMS! 

Write    for    safe,    correct    procedure! 

SONG  SERVICE 
Dept.  T.V.  333  W.  56th  St..  New  York  19.  N.  Y. 

DANCING  SHOES— SUPPLIES 

Elastic     Leotard     with      Nylon     net     tu     tu     V 

Ideal  Recital  Costume.  Pastel  Shades,  Black  &  Red..- 

Child's. 2  to  12, $3.95:  Adult's, Sm.,  Med..  Lg.,$4.75.\ 

BATON— DRUM  CORPS   SUPPLIES 

SKATING  SKIRTS— Roller  or  Ice. 

Catalog  20c   (may  be  applied  to  purchase) 

Quincon  Supplies,  Dept.  R,Box422,Quincy  69, Mass. 


500  v^^Childs  Photo 


Yes,  up  to  $500  and  more  PAID  if  used  for 
TV,  Calendar  or  Magazine  Ads.  YOUR  CHILD 
has  same  opportunity.  Send  ONE  small  photo 
for  approval.  Print  child's  and  mother's  name 
and  address  on  back.  Returned  in  2  weeks 
with  report.  (Ages  6  mo.  to  18  yrs.) 

NO  OBLIGATION.  (Established  1946) 
HOLLYWOOD  SPOTLITE,  Dept.  AC 
8346   Beverly    Blvd.,    Hollywood,    Calif. 


IS  YOURS 

For  Selling  Only  100  Boxes  Of 

'  AMAZING  "CUT  FLOWERS" 


EVERYDAY    CARDS 


So  real,  even  the  stems  are  cut.  You  make  85e 
on  each  $1.25  box.  No  experience  needed.  Also 
show  new  TALL  Cards  for  Birthdays,  All 
Occasions,  Comic,  Reli^ous  at  21  for  $1 
andSl.25;  Mbkjc  Word  Cards;  Kiddie  Toy  Cards; 
clever  Gifts  at  $1  up.  140  spare  time  money- 
makers. Bin  cash  profits  dIds  S10-S50  in  Bonus 
Gifts.  Stationery  Samples  FREE  plus  assortmentfl 
on  approval.  Act  fast,  get  $1.25  Gift  Set  FREE!     ^^^_ 

CREATIVE  CARD  CO..  4401  Cermak.  Oept.  197-F  ChicaEO  23.  III. 

LEARN  AT  HOME 

•  to  be  a  Nurse's  Aide 

•  Practical  Nurse 

•  or  Infant  Nurse 

Prepare  In  spare  time  for  a  fascinating,  liigh-pay  career. 
Thousands  of  men  and  women.  18-60.  are  graduates  of 
tliis  doctor-supervised  course.  Higli  school  not  required. 
Easy  payments;  cam  as  you  learn.  Trial  plan.  5  8th  year. 
CHICAGO  SCHOOL  OF  NURSING 
Dept.  23,  25  East  Jackson  Blvd.,  Chicago  4,  III. 
Please  send  me  free  booklet  and  16  sample  lesson  pages. 

Name . . 

Citv State Age 


88 


EAT  ANYTHING 
WITH  FALSE  TEETH 

If  you  have  trouble  with  plates  that 
slip,  rock  and  cause  sore  gums — try 
Brimms  Plasti-Liner.  One  applica- 
tion  makes  plates  fit  snugly  without  '^ 
powder  or  paste,  because  Brimms 
Plasti-Liner  hardens  permanently  to 
your  plate.  It  relines  and  refits  loose 
plates  in  a  way  no  powder  or  paste  can  do.  No  need 
to  pass  up  your  favorite  foods.  With  plates  held 
firmly  by  Plasti-Liner,  YOU  CAN  eat  anythingi 
Simply  lay  soft  strijj  of  Plasti-Liner  on  troublesome 
upper  or  lower.  Bite  and  it  molds  perfectly.  Easy 
to  use,  tasteless,  odorless,  harmless  to  you  and  your 
plates.  Removable  as  directed.  Money  back  guaran- 
tee. At  your  drug  counter.  Only  $1.50.  Plasti-Liner 
Inc.,  Dept.RR;  1075  Main  St.,  Buffalo  9,  N.  Y. 


BRIMMS    PLASTI-LINER 

THE    PERMANENT   DENTURE   RELINER 


Butch  was  nowhere  to  be  seen.  And 
then,  as  he  crossed  the  road,  he  saw  the 
poor  thing  all  bloody  and  dead.  He  came 
home  sobbing.  'Mom,'  he  said,  'why 
couldn't  they  have  pulled  him  off  the 
road?  Why  did  they  have  to  let  him  die 
there  all  by  himself?'  I  offered  to  get 
him  another  pet,  but  he  refused.  He's 
never  had  one  since."  She  pauses,  hesi- 
tates, glances  uneasily  at  her  son  and 
adds  in  a  subdued  tone,  "I  don't  guess 
any  of  us  like  to  take  the  chance  of 
being   hurt   twice    .    .    ." 

There's  no  doubt  that  Sanford  has  such 
fears.  His  dark-haired,  clear-skinned 
handsomeness  is  strung  just  a  bit  too 
tightly.  He  shows,  in  his  intense  look, 
gesture  and  speech,  the  long  conditioning 
he's  had  in  losing  loved  ones  or  being 
parted  from  them,  as  well  as  the  day- 
by-day  grinding  away  of  various  in- 
securities which  have  been  at  his  side 
since  boyhood.  It  is  obvious,  and  he 
knows  it,  that  this  is  what  has  kept  him 
from  giving  singing  the  big  try  before 
now. 

"I  wanted  some  kind  of  musical  career 
for  years,"  he  admits.  "At  first,  the  guitar, 
and  then — when  I  realized  I  wasn't  in  a 
class  with  fellows  like  Al  Casey — singing 
.  .  .  but  I  didn't  dare  stick  my  neck  out. 
I  kept  my  dream  under  wraps.  Only  Mom 
guessed.       .   ." 

Unlike  Elvis  Presley  and  Pat  Boone, 
who  came  from  solid  homes  with  all  the 
psychological  advantages  that  go  with  firm 
and  happy  family  life,  Sanford  is  still 
fighting  the  inner  battle  for  self-con- 
fidence. Of  the  three  singers,  it  is  gener- 
ally admitted  that  Sanford  has  had  the 
least  chance  to  develop  this  quality  so 
vital  to  a  professional  entertainer.  Aside 
from  being  almost  two  years  younger 
than  Elvis  or  Pat,  Sanford  has  spent  the 
past  three-and-a-half  years  in  the  U.S. 
Air  Force  and  will  not  become  a  free 
agent  for  months  to  come.  Until  then,  he 
must  content  himself  with  am  occasional 
appearance,  or  recording. 

It  seems  almost  a  miracle  that,  in  six 
months,  he  has  leaped  to  a  level  where  he 
is  picked  by  many  "in  the  know"  as  the 
coming  threat  to  Elvis's  crown.  This  is 
not  to  say  that  Sanford  thinks  of  himself 
as  a  rock  'n'  roller.  Far  from  it.  Lee 
Hazelwood,  his  manager  and  the  composer 
of  both  "The  Fool"  and  "A  Cheat,"  and 
Al  Casey,  who  has  been  called  one  of  the 
greatest  "finds"  in  guitarists  since  Eddie 
Condon,  both  agree  that  Sanford's  style 
is  a  natural  wedding  of  the  hillbilly  and 
lowdown  blues,  with  a  sprinkle  of  some- 
thing all  his  own  to  give  it  spice. 

"He  has  the  classic  stance,"  Hazelwood 
says  of  Sanford,  "no  bumping,  gyrating 
or  grimacing.  He  doesn't  need  it."  And 
Bill  Randall  of  WERE— the  man  who 
pinned  the  nickname  of  "Sandy"  on  him, 
a  name  Sanford's  seriously  thinking  of 
using  professionally — has  this  to  say:  "He's 
not  a  fancy  singer  like  many  of  the  young 
ones.  His  delivery  is  like  a  straight  left. 
And  that's  taken  many  a  man  to  the 
championship.  And  yet  he's  thoroughly 
modern — he  makes  you  feel  the  meaning 
of  the  words,  the  philosophy  behind  them 
.  .  .  and  he  only  distorts  when  the  shape 
of  the  music  demands  it.  This  is  a  kid 
whom  life  has  taught  to  feel  deeply.  He 
knows  the  meaning  of  emotions  that  kids 
his  age  usually  don't  know  exist  .  .  ." 

One  such  emotion  may  perhaps  be  high- 
lighted by  a  story  his  father  tells.  When 
Sanford  was  fifteen,  he  was  visiting  Con- 
nie Clark  in  Turley,  Oklahoma.  Connie 
was  working  on  construction  of  the  YMCA 
in  near-by  Tulsa.  Sanford  pitched  in  to 
help.  At  lunch  time,  he  would  strum  his 
guitar  and  sing  for  the  workingmen.  They 
were  glad  of  the  break  in  the  day's  rou- 
tine and  some  of  them,  in  appreciation, 
told   Connie   about  a   local   talent   contest 


that  was  to  be  staged  in  the  town  park. 
Connie  urged  his  boy  to  enter.  Sanford 
did — and  tied  three-  times  with  an  ac- 
cordion player.  To  break  the  tie,  the 
pair  had  to  step  out  on  stage  for  a  final 
round  of  applause.  This  time,  Sanford  re- 
fused to  go  out.  "Why?  Why?"  asked  his 
father.  "Because,"  said  his  son  with  a 
candid  grin,  "you  and  the  men  have  been 
whooping  it  up  for  me,  Dad.  But  the 
other  kid's  really  better  and  I  figure  he 
ought  to  get  it.  But,  Dad,"  the  boy's 
voice  had  gone  solemn,  "I'll  make  you  a 
promise:  When  I  get  good  enough  for 
first  place — no  matter  what  it's  in — I  won't 
step  back  for  anyone." 

It  will  be  sixteen  months  in  March 
that  he's  been  stationed  at  Williams  A.  F. 
Base  in  Phoenix  as  a  skilled  teletyper 
with  the  rank  of  Airman  First  Class.  Be- 
cause of  the  necessity  for  working  in 
shifts,  Sanford  hasn't  had  much  time  for 
making  friends  or  promoting  his  career. 
He  himself  says,  "The  Air  Force  has  been 
a  great  help  to  me.  It's  a  way  of  living 
that  forces  you  to  mature.  It  gave  me  the 
security  of  a  pay  check  and.  small  as  it 
is,  it  helped  give  me  confidence.  I've 
learned  teletyping,  and  that's  a  trade  I 
can  fall  back  on  any  time  I  want  to.  And 
it  gave  me  a  chance  to  help  support  Mom. 
Of  course  it's  had  some  drawbacks,  as  far 
as  making  personal  appearances  is  con- 
cerned— although  they've  been  doggone 
generous  with  time  off. 

"I'll  say  this:  Unless  there's  a  war — and 
then,  of  course,  I'll  stay  in  where  I'm 
needed — I'll  be  glad  to  become  a  civilian 
again  and  devote  all  my  time  to  singing. 
Lee  and  Al  think  I  can  stand  up  to  Pres- 
ley and  Pat  Boone,  but  I'm  not  sure.  I 
admire  both  of  them,  especially  Pat.  But 
if  I've  got  the  stuff,  I  don't  mean  to  take 
a  back  seat  for  anybody,  and  on  that  I'm 
sure,"-  he  adds  firmly.  "All  I  ask  is  a 
fair  chance  to  compete  .  .  ." 

What,  for  example,  would  a  fair  chance 
be? 

"The  same  as  Elvis  got— a  crack  at  the 
Ed  Sullivan  or  Steve  Allen  deals,"  he 
says,  then  adds  wistfully,  "We're  trying 
for  it."  And,  all  at  once,  the  little  boy  he 
was  jvimps  back  into  his  grin  as  he  ex- 
claims, "Boy,  I'd  sure  be  famous  then " 

But  Sanford,  whether  he  is  fully  aware 
of  it  or  not,  is  already  becoming  famous. 
And  that  brings  this  story  back  to  its 
beginnings,  and  the  three  lads  who  gam- 
bled everything  they  had  on  "The  Fool." 
This  is  how  he  himself  tells  it: 

"I  was  at  this  country  dance,  you  see. 
It's  called  'Arizona  Hayride'  and  it's  run 
by  Ray  Odom,  from  Phoenix.  His  per- 
formers sing  both  styles,  covmtry  and  rock 
'n'  roll.  Well,  my  old  pal,  Al  Casey,  had 
got  a  notion  in  his  head  that  I'd  murder 
them  on  this  show.  Al  got  this  notion  one 
day  when  I  did  an  imitation  of  Elvis,  just 
for  laughs.  He  and  some  friends  got  after 
me.  They  said  that  Odom's  show  is  in- 
formal and  anyone  can  get  up  there  and 
sing  if  they  have  the  nerve.  Folks  just 
ignore  you  if  they  don't  like  it.  So,  with 
Al  shoving  me  from  behind,  I  got  up  on 
that  stage  and  sang.  The  crowd  seemed  to 
go  for  it  and,  next  week,  I  got  up  without 
any   pushing   and   sang   again. 

"This  time,  I  didn't  know  that  Al  had 
brought  along  a  friend.  It  turned  out  to 
be  Lee  Hazelwood,  who  has  a  popular 
program  here  on  KTYL.  When  I  got 
through  singing,  Al  introduced  us — and  it 
was  the  turning  point  of  my  life.  The  first 
thing  Lee  said  was,  'You've  got  a  little 
something  going  for  you,  kid,  and  I  do 
mean  your  voice.  It's  different.'  I  thanked 
him,  and  then  he  burst  the  bombshell.  'I 
have  a  song — I  wrote  it — and  I'd  like  you 
to  record  it.'  I  gave  a  yelp.  'Record  it? 
Are  you  crazy,  man?  I'm  no  professional. 
I  was  only  clowning  around  up  there.' 
And   then  he  put  the   cap   on   it.    'Look, 


Sanford,'  he  said,  'I'm  not  interested  in 
modesty.  I've  got  a  good  song  and  I  want 
you  to  cut  it  .  .  .  with  Al  here  accom- 
panying. And  I'll  tell  you  how  serious 
I  am.  I'm  ready  to  put  my  money  into 
it' " 

But  the  two  other  boys  wanted  to  con- 
tribute their  share,  and  so  there  ensued 
a  couple  of  weeks  of  frantic  saving  until 
the  night  Sanford  raised  the  hammer  and 
smashed  their  piggy  bank.  All  together, 
they  had  something  like  $215 — which  was 
just  enough  to  cover  the  rental  of  a  studio 
and  cutting  of  a  record. 

Never  were  215  seeds  more  fortunately 
planted.  It  has  blossomed  forth  into  one 
of  the  top  sellers  of  the  year,  expected  by 
many  to  go  over  the  million  mark.  Aside 
from  this,  Sanford  himself — with  permis- 
sion of  the  Air  Force — has  made  personal 
appearances  in  Los  Angeles,  Chicago, 
Cleveland,  Detroit,  Tulsa,  Fort  Worth,  San 
Antonio,  and  Omaha,  where  more  than 
12,000  enthusiastic  fans  turned  out  to 
cheer  him  on.  According  to  an  Arizona 
paper,  he  is  commanding  $3,000  a  week 
for  these  appearances,  and  his  price  is 
rising  with   his   zooming  popularity. 

"I'm  not  surprised,"  Ray  Odom  testifies. 
"The  first  time  he  did  his  bit  on  my  show, 
I  said  this  kid  should  go  far." 

1  he  sudden  vault  to  fame  has  not  gone 
to  Sanford's  head.  When  he  appeared  on 
Teenage  Bandstand,  Al  Jarvis,  well- 
known  Hollywood  television  emcee  EUid 
disc  jockey,  told  him  that  he  had  every- 
thing but  confidence.  "You  can  make  the 
grade,"  Jarvis  told  him  kindly,  "but  you 
must  learn  to  think  positively.  Remember, 
the  greatest  asset  of  a  performer  is  his 
authority."  Yet,  in  spite  of  the  "butter- 
flies" within,  Sanford's  stint  on  Bandstand 
proved  a  huge  hit.  Five  hundred  letters 
arrived  from  Angelenos  who  had  listened 
to  the  local  program.  It  was  heartening 
for  Sanford  to  receive  this  acclaim  from 
fans,  but  he  is  too  firmly  planted  on  solid 
earth  not  to  give  heed  to  the  advice  of 
more  knowing  critics  to  "study,  study, 
study,"  with  the  aim  of  enlarging  his  tone 
range  and  method  of  projection.  He 
means  to  follow  their  advice  promptly  on 
leaving   the   service. 

If  he  has  kept  his  head  with  regard  to 
his  present  place  in  the  sun,  Sanford  is 
also  showing  common  sense  in  other 
things.  His  taste  in  clothes  has  remained 
conservative  .  .  .  soUd-colored  suits  with 
perhaps  a  fleck  of  brightness  in  them. 
His  only  indulgence  in  the  bizarre  is  his 
liking  for  turtle -necked  sweaters  in  his 
favorite  colors  of  green  and  blue.  He 
enjoys  singing  in  these  sweaters  and  they 
may  become  a  part  of  his  legend,  as  they 
were  with  Clark  Gable  in  the  '30's.  His 
mother  squealed  with  delight  the  first 
time  she  saw  him  in  a  turtle-neck — it 
brought  back  memories  of  her  own  hero, 
Gable,  and  she  has  insisted  that  Sanford 
wear  this  as  a  costume  in  future  ap- 
.  pearances. 

Sanford  receives  several  hundred  fan 
letters  a  week  and  the  majority  come 
from  women.  With  regard  to  the  op- 
posite sex,  Sanford  says  frankly,  "I  smoke 
a  little,  I  drink  a  little,  and  I  like  girls  a 
lot.  That's  only  normal,  isn't  it,  at  my 
age?" 

His  preference  is  for  the  dark,  blue- 
eyed  and  long-haired  type,  but  the  thing 
he  values  most  in  any  feminine  com- 
panion is  a  sense  of  humor.  That — and 
the  self-discipline  to  refrain  from  snide 
remarks  or  gossip — is  a  "must"  by  his 
scale  of  values.  An  evening  out  with  him 
will  usually  include  visiting  some  night 
spot  where  there's  a  good  selection  of 
bop  and  country  music.  His  most  fre- 
quent date,  a  girl  to  whom  he  has  been 
rumored  engaged  and  even  secretly  mar- 
ried, he  will  only  identify  by  the  name  of 


"Lou."  Sanford's  unvarying  answers  to  the 
strong  rumors  of  a  secret  marriage  is  a 
mischievous  smile  and  the  assurance  that 
"I  promise  to  tell  all  when  the  right  time 
comes." 

There  is  much  precedent  for  Sanford  to 
marry  early.  His  parents  were  eighteen 
and  twenty,  respectively,  when  they  were 
wed.  His  friends  married  very  young. 
Lee  Hazelwood,  at  27,  already  has  two 
children,  and  Al  Casey,  only  20,  is  also 
the  proud  father  of  two  baby  girls. 

Like  most  young  performers,  Sanford 
makes  a  personal  concern  of  his  fan  mail. 
He  reads  everything  that  comes  in  and 
discusses  it  with  Jewel  Thrasher,  presi- 
dent of  his  national  fan  club.  He  is  hav- 
ing special  photographs  taken  in  order 
to  satisfy  his  fans.  Although  he  is 
fascinated  by  his  clippings  and  reads  them 
again  and  again,  he  is  more  interested  in 
looking  at  pictures  of  his  fans  than  look- 
ing at  his  own.  One  afternoon  he  arrived 
home  dragging  two  enormous  scrapbooks. 
Geneva  stared  at  them  and  gasped:  "What 
in    the    world — ?" 

"One's  for  clippings,"  he  explained.  "The 
other's  for  pictures  my  fans  are  kind 
enough  to  send  me  of  themselves." 

These  are  signs  of  youth,  which  is  also 
betrayed  in  the  lift  he  gets  on  meeting  a 
celebrity.  He  stUl  talks  about  Denise 
Alexander,  the  starlet  whom  he  met  on 
the  Al  Jarvis  Show.  To  him,  she  seemed 
touched  with  that  beguiling  luster  he 
recognized  as  being  "what  fame  can  do 
for  you."  And  he  still  has  the  young 
man's  faith  that  anyone  in  the  spotlight 
must  deserve  it. 

His  own  spotlight,  small  as  it  may 
seem,  at  present,  has  brought  him  more 
money  than  he's  ever  known.  It  has  pro- 
vided a  prop  for  his  old  tendency  toward 
insecurity.  But — in  some  perverse  way 
he  can't  explain — it  has  awakened  other 
dormant  anxieties.  How  far  wiU  his 
talent  take  him?  How  long  will  he  last? 
He  is  suddenly  terrified  by  something  a 
performer  once  told  him:  "It's  bad  enough 
to  be  a  might-have-been,  but  nothing's  so 
awful  as  to  climb  to  within  a  few  inches 
of  the  top  and  then  slide  back."  Will  that 
happen  to  him?  Will  the  money  he's 
made  suddenly  evaporate  and  leave  him 
penniless  as  before?  He  knows  that  once 
he  is  discharged  from  service  these  are 
questions  he  wUl  have  to  answer — there 
is  no  ducking  them.  It  is  why  he  plans 
no  large  expenditures,  aside  from  a  family 
■  home  and  a  new  car. 

Geneva  Clark  and  her  son  shared  the 
lean  years  together.  No  matter  how 
difficult  their  circumstances  became,  they 
faced  them  side  by  side.  A  deep  affection 
and  understanding  exists  between  them. 
He  brings  her  every  "dub"  (test  record) 
he  makes.  The  first  record  pressed  of 
"The  Fool"  is  now  her  "most  treasured 
possession."  Now  they  are  enjoying  the 
prospect  of  better  years  as  a  family 
should — together. 

At  this  writing  all  that  is  known  about 
the  house  he  has  bought  is  that  it  is 
located  in  the  southwestern  section  of 
Phoenix  and  has  six  large  rooms.  Sanford 
refuses  to  go  into  details  as  yet,  because 
he  wants  it  to  be  "absolutely  perfect" 
when  he  unveils  it  to  his  family. 

"One  thing  can  be  taken  for  granted," 
Al  Casey  says.  "It  wUl  be  a  house  of 
strong  timber  and  firm  foundation — the 
kind  of  home  that  will  stand  up  against 
wind,  cold,  storm  and  flood." 

Perhaps,  in  this  new  home,  young, 
handsome  and  talented  Sanford  Clark 
will  at  long  last  find  the  fortress  of  se- 
curity he  has  been  seeking  since  he  was 
a  boy  of  nine.  Perhaps  there  he'll  find 
the  answer  to  the  dream  he  hardly  dared 
to  voice,  now  that  he  knows  what  singin' 
the  blues  can  do  for  a  young  man  who  has 
both  the   dream — and  the   voice. 


DARKENER  '° '"^ 


SEND  TODAY 

for 

niAL  Sin 

HO  DELAY— 
your  trial  order 
shipped  in  24 


PERMANENT      ■/nnm.nbn    hairs  to 

FOR  LASHES  AND  BROWS  :X 

•  NOT  AN  ANAUNC  DYCI 

•  I  APPLICATION  LASTS  4  to  5  WECKSI 

Takes  iusi  seconds  to  apply . . .  stays  on  4  to 
5  weeks!  "Dark-Eyes"  is  the  perfect  way  to 
make  eyelashes  and  brows  completely  natural 
looking .,  .and  it  will  not  harden  or  break 
themi  "Dark-Eyes"  is  NOT  A  MASCARAI 
Will^ot  stick  to  eyelash   curler.    Eliminates 

the    bother    of    daily    eye    make-up. 

It  is  PERMANENT,  SWIMPROOF, 

SMUDGEPROOF,  TEARPROOF,  and 

SMEARPROOFI 

$1.25  (iJt%  tax)  at  Itadiag  ing, 
dept.  and  variety  tbain  stores. 


hours ! 


"DARK-EYES"  COMPANY,  Dept.  P-37 
3319  W.  Carroll  Ave.,  Chicago  34,  III. 

I   enclose   25c   (coin   or  stamps— tax   included)   for 
TRIAL  SIZE  pkg.  of  "Dark-Eyes"  with  directions. 

check  shade:  Q  light  Brown  \~]  Brown  Q  Block 

Nome 


Address. 
Town 


-State- 


SONG  POEMS  WANTED 

To  be   set   to  music.   Send  your  poems  today  for  free 
examination ! 

J.  CHAS.  McNEIL  (A.  B.   Master  of  Music) 
310-MG  So.  Alexandria  Los  Angeles  3,  Calif. 


ISO 


BARGAIN   ! 
SPECIALS  I 

BOXES  FOR  I 

50£J 

$|qp   I 

SOXES  FOR  I 

35<^  I 


Cash  From  CIO  Boxes 


GIANT  ALL-PURPOSE 


Ye3,  yoQ  make  $1.25  on  every  box!  Andyoacao 
depend  on  a  fine  extra  income  all  year  from 
our  best  seUers  for  EVERY  occasion- 
Mother's,  Father's  Day,  Valentines.  Eastern 
Star,  Secret  Pal,  etc.  Big  line  newest  SLIM 
Assortments,  Stationery,  Gifts  and  Gadgets. 
Send  For  Samples  NOW! 

While  theF  last— Special  Bargains  id  facto r?  closeoats 
pay  yoa  bJKeest  profits  ever.  Color  Catalogs  boost 
earnings.  No  experience  needed.  Costs  nothing  to 
see.  Get  Bargain  List,  new  1967  AsBortments  on  ap- 
proval and  Stationery  Portfolio  PTIEE  by  writin  a  now! 

BOULEVARD  ART  PUBLISHERS.  Dept.  633-T 
23S  South  Wabash  Avenue.  Chtcaso  4.  Illinois 


Tense,  Nervous 

Headaches  Need 

This  Relief 

A  survey  shows  3  out  of  4  doctors  recommend  the 
famous  ingredients  of  Anacin  to  relieve  pain.  Here's 
why  Anacin  ®  gives  better  total  effect  in  pain  relief 
than  aspirin  or  any  buffered  aspirin: 

g^^ACTS  INSTANTLY:  Anacin  goes  to  work  instantly. 
Brings  fast  relief  to  source  of  your  pain. 

IH^^MORE   EFFECTIVE:  Anacin  is  like  a  doctor's  pre- 
scription. That  is,  Anacin  contains  not  one.  but  a  - 
combination  of  medically  proven  ingredients. 

■i^  SAFER:  Anacin  simply  can  not  upset  your  stomach.         n 

■■^  LESSENS  TENSION:  Anacin  also  reduces  nervous  ten- 
sion, leaves  you  relaxed,  feeling  fine  after  pain 
goes.  Buy  Anacin  todayl 


m  ^    www    w 
1       Can't  Get  Rid  of 
[^Dark  or  Discolored  Skin, 
Jreckles,SkinSpots?^ 


Mrs.  Frances  De  Berry 


Lightens  dark 
ikln  and  ugly 
spots  almost 
overnlgtit. 


HERE'S  HELP!  Mercolized  Wax  Cream 
7  NIGHT  PLAN  Lightens, 
Beautifies  Skin  WhileYou  Sleep 

Just  follow  the  famous  Mercolized  Wax 
Cream  7  Nigfit  RIan  to  a  whiter,  smoother^ 
lovelier  skin.  Smooth  rich,  luxurious  Mer- 
colized Wax  Cream  on  your  face  or  arms 
just  before  retiring  each  night  for  one  week, 

You'll  begin  to  see  results  almost 

at  once  .  .  .  lightens  dark  skin, 
blotches,  spots,  freckles  as  if  by 
magic!  This  is  not  a  cover  up  cos- 
metic; Mercolized  Wax  Cream 
works  UNDER  the  skin  surface. 
Beautiful  women  have  used  this 
time-tested  plan  for  over  40  years— you'll 
love  it's  fast,  sure,  longer  lasting  resultsi 
Mercolized  Wax  Cream  is  sold  on  100%  guar- 
antee or  money  back.    Start  using  it  now  I 

MERCOLIZED  WAX  CREAM 

At  All  Drug  and  Cosmetic  Counters 


POEMS  WANTED 

■  ^^^^IWIMS  For  musical  setting  .  .  .  Send 
^  ^^^^WW^^^  your  Poems  today  for  FREE 
EXAMINATION.     Any     subject.     Immediate     consideration. 

nVE  STAR  MUSIC  MASTERS.    265  BEACON  BLDG..  BOSTON.  MASS. 

THIS  AD  IS 
WORTH  MONEY! 

Let  us  show  you  how  to  moke  big  money  in  your 
spare  time  by  helping  us  tal«e  orders  for  magazine 
subscriptions.  Write  today  for  FREE  money-making 
information:  TV  RADIO  MIRROR.  205  E.  42nd  St., 
New  York  17.  N.  Y. 


TROUBLED 
WITH 

UNWANTED 
HAIR? 


.  raOVIDENDE  15.  R.  I. 


You  needn't  be!  Now  you  can 
remove  unwanted  hair  forever 
I —  in  the  privacy  of  your  home 
I  —  with  the  famous  Mahler  Hair 
Removal  Epilator!  Acclaimed 
by  thousands  of  women  who 
I  have  discovered  how  Mahler 
destroys  the  hair  root  perma- 
I  nently!  By  following  our  instruc- 
tions you,  too,  can  learn  to  use 
Rthe  Mahler  safely  and  effi- 
^  ciently!  Positive  money-back 
guarantee!  Act  today! 

"^end  Si  for  illustrated  16-page 
booklet  "New  Radiant  Beauty"! 


MAKE  $50-$60  A  WEEK 

Practical   nurses   are   needed   in  every 
community . . .  doctors  rely  on  them  . . . 
patients  appreciate  their  cheerful,  ex- 
pert   care.     You    can    learn    practical 
nursing  at  home  in  spare  time.  Course 
suporyised  by  doctor.  58th  year.  Earn 
while    learning.    High    school    not   re- 
quired.  Men,   women,    18   to   60.    Trial   plan.    Write   now  I 
CHICAGO   SCHOOL  OF    NURSING 
Dept.  463,  25  East  Jackson  Blvd.,  Chicago  4,   III. 
Please  send  free  booklet  and  16  sample  lesson  pages 

Name __ „ 

Citv State Aae 

Amazing  NewCreme  Co/or  Shampoo 

RE-COLORS  HAIR  '„',li.lr.s 

''-^?^7\  Change    streaked,    gray,    graying,   off- 

■**'"^  color  or  drab  hair  to  new  lustrous 

youthful-looking  color.  TINTZ 
Creme  Color  Shampoo  recolors  hair  at 
home  as  it  shampoos.  No  artificial  look 
...  no  hairline  difference.  Easy.  Won't 
wash  or  rub  off.  Won't  affect  perma- 
nents.  Choice  of  14  shades  each  so 
natural-looking  no  one  will  suspect 
your  secret.  Color  chart  on  package. 
Ask  for  TINTZ  Creme  Color  Shampoo. 
Only  $1.50  plus  tax  at  druggists. 


DIRECT  TO  YOU  . . .  EASY  TERMS 

Genuine  Rockdale  Monuments  and 
Markers.  Full  Price  $14.95  and  up. 
Satisfaction  or  MONEY  BACK. 
We  pay  freight.  Compare  our  low 
prices.  Write  for  FREE  CATALOG. 
ROCKDALE  MONUMENT  CO. 

DEPT.  44e  -        JOLIET,  ILLINOIS 


(Continued  from  page  32) 
I  had  been  accepted  as  a  contestant.  And 
with  me  on  the  show,  as  I  mounted,  step 
by  step,  to  each  succeeding  plateau.  .  .  ." 
A  few  days  after  it  had  happened,  Mrs. 
Frances  De  Berry  said,  "What  has  hap- 
pened to  me  can't  be  described.  I  have  no 
words.  It  dropped  out  of  the  blue.  How 
could  I  have  dreamed  .  .  .  ?" 

Seventy-four  years  ago,  Frances  Carter 
was  born  in  Nashville,  Tennessee.  Her 
parents.  Green  and  Lila  Carter,  had  been 
slaves.  "It  was  twenty-five  years  after 
they  were  free,"  said  Mrs.  De  Berry,  "that 
I  came  along,  one  of  their  nine  children. 
When  the  colored  people  came  out  of  slav- 
ery, they  didn't  have  anything.  In  those 
days,  three  dollars  a  week  kept  a  family. 
But,  although  we  were  what  you'd  con- 
sider church-mouse  poor,  my  father  did 
better  than  that.  With  nine  children,  he 
had  to.  Working  as  a  riveter,  bending 
iron  and  steel  to  help  build  bridges,  he 
made  five  dollars  a  day. 

"My  father  was  an  exceptional  man  to 
come  out  of  slavery.  He  spoke  in  dialect, 
but  he  named  his  dogs  Romulus  and  Re- 
mus. And,  although  he  mispronounced 
the  consonants,  calling  them  'Robulus  and 
Rebus,'  he  knew  he  had  named  them  for 
the  legendary  founders  of  Rome.  He  knew 
about  Hannibal  and  Attila  the  Hun,  and 
Genghis  Khan  and  Alexander  the  Great. 
He  got  a  school  built  on  our  property  for 
the  kids,  his  own  and  others  roundabout. 
He  had  a  kind  of  instinctively  cultured 
mind. 

"I'd  like  to  think  I  inherited  my  love  of 
reading,  of  all  the  arts,  from  my  father," 
Mrs.  De  Berry  smiled.  "McGiofEey's  Read- 
ers were  my  first  books — and  oh,  they 
were  rich!  They  were  the  sources  of  fu- 
ture riches  for  me,  too.  It  was  in  one  of 
them  I  read  about  Hamlet's  father's  ghost. 
He  was  marvelous,  he  just  thrilled  me,  so 
I  looked  for  more  of  Shakespeare. 

"Then,  one  day,  our  family  doctor.  Dr. 
Davidson,  who  had  been  a  slave  owner, 
stopped  by  and  found  me  reading.  He 
asked  what  I  was  reading,  and  I  read 
aloud  the  lines  which  begin:  'Sweet  are 
the  uses  of  adversity.  .  .  .'  I  can  still  see 
Dr.  Davidson's  eyebrows  making  little 
gray  exclamation  points — bushy  ones — over 
the  surprised  expression  in  his  eyes,  as  he 
said,  'Why,  that's  from  Shakespeare!' " 

Little  dreaming  that  the  same  lines  and 
the  same  answer  would,  one  far-off  day, 
help  her  to  win  $16,000,  young  Frances 
responded,  "Yes,  doctor  it's  from  'As  You 
Like  It,'  "  and  added,  "The  lines  are  spok- 
en by  the  banished  Duke."  But  her  an- 
swer then  produced  one  positive,  far- 
reaching  result.  As  Mrs.  De  Berry  now 
recalled,  "A  few  days  later,  Dr.  Davidson 
stopped  by  again  to  bring  me  a  whole 
book  of  Shakespeare,  the  complete  Shake- 
speare. And,  in  the  years  between  then 
and  now,  I  have  read  each  and  every  one 
of  the  plays  at  least  twenty  to  thirty  times. 
Read  them  just  for  the  love  of  them." 

From  the  age  of  twelve  on,  Shakespeare 
was  "iterally  Frances  Carter's  life  work. 
She  has  read  and  can  quote  from  Byron, 
Tennyson,  Shelley,  Keats.  She  has  read 
the  Bible  through,  more  than  once— lov- 
ing, especially,  the  Book  of  Job  and  the 
Psalms.  She  read  Dickens  and  Browning 
and  Scott.  But,  always,  her  heart  and 
most  of  her  time  were  dedicated  to  Shake- 
speare, whose  plays  and  people  seemed 
almost  more  real  than  her  own  life. 

She  "continued  in  school"  until  she  was 
nearly  sixteen.  "Later,  I  went  to  Fisk 
University,  from  which  I  was  graduated. 
I  majored  in  English— a  standard  course, 
and  perhaps  not  up-to-date,"  she  smiled, 
"but  I  guess  it  did  me  all  right!"  And 
then  she  was  married 


"After  we  were  married,"  Frances  Car- 
ter De  Berry  recalled,  "my  husband  and 
I  moved  to  Louisville,  where  I  have  lived 
for  thirty-eight  years — most  receiitly,  in  a 
little  apartment  across  the  hall  from  my 
daughter's.  My  husband  was  a  waiter,  but 
I  have  been  a  widow  for  thirty-three 
years.  Until  after  my  husband  died,  I 
stayed  home  tending  my  three  children.  I 
had  two  sons,  Caswell  and  Alfred  Tenny- 
son, and  one  daughter,  Myra.  But  I  did 
no  outside  work.  I  was  reading  every 
spare  minute.  Reading,  book  in  hand, 
over  the  cookstove.  Reading,  book  propped 
up  in  front  of  me,  as  I  ironed  or  darned. 
Reading  until  one  and  two  in  the  morn- 
ing. What  I  couldn't  provide  for  my  body 
— fine  clothes  and  fancy  foods  and  such — I 
could  provide  for  my  mind.  Reading  has 
been  my  life. 

"Of  course,  after  my  husband  died,  I 
went  outside  to  work.  For  a  time,  I 
earned  about  eighteen  dollars  a  week  as  a 
mission  worker  for  the  Good  Will  Indus- 
tries, going  out  and  talking  to  people, 
reading  the  Scriptures  to  them.  After  that, 
I  did  cooking  and  'day  work' — cleaning, 
scrubbing,  washing  and  ironing  for  differ- 
ent families.  During  World  War  II,  I 
worked  as  a  pants  presser  for  the  United 
Laundry  and  Dry  Cleaning,  in  Louisville. 
"I've  done  a  lot  of  work  in  my  time," 
she  said  softly.  "I've  had  my  share  of 
trouble,  too,  of  the  kind  that  is  really 
trouble.  The  death  of  my  son  Caswell, 
when  he  was  thirty-three.  The  long  ill- 
ness of  my  younger  son,  Alfred  Tennyson, 
who  died  at  the  age  of  twenty -eight. 
Nothing  but  trouble,  it  seemed,  and  no 
comfort  for  me  but  to  turn  to  Shakesp.iare. 
"In  'Julius  Caesar,'  Shakespeare  speaks 
of  'a  tide  in  the  affairs  of  men,  which, 
taken  at  the  flood,  leads  on  to  fortune.' 
And  so  it  was  for  me,  one  day  last  sum- 
mer, when  I  was  walking  dowii  the  street. 
A  neignbor  friend  of  mine,  Katy  Marshall, 
called  cut  to  me:  'Mrs.  De  Berry,  I've  been 
thinking — why  don't  you  try  to  get  on  this 
$6'L000  Question  and  make  yourself  some- 
thing? I  think  you  could  dc  well.'  But  I 
didn't  think  I  stood  a  chance  of  getting  on 
the  program,  and  I  told  her  so.  A  day  or 
so  later,  another  neighbor  friend,  Juanita 
Garner,  spoke  to  me  about  Mr.  Redmond 
O'Hanlon  'He  was  on  The  $64,000  Ques- 
tion last  night,'  she  said,  'and  his  category 
was  Shakespeare.  I  think  you  could  an- 
swer  those   questions.' 

"Katy  Marshall,"  Mrs.  De  Berry  smiled. 
"must  have  sowed  a  seed  in  my  mind,  for 
this  time  my  answer  wasn't  so  positive. 
'I  wouldn't  know  how  to  go  about  getting 
on  the  program,'  I  said.  Then,  that  same 
week,  another  lady — one  of  the  white 
ladies  for  whom  I  had  done  day  work — 
asked  me  why,  with  my  knowledge  of 
Shakespeare,  I  didn't  try  for  The  $64,000 
Question.  'I  think,'  she  said,  in  the  self- 
same words  Katy  Marshall  had  used,  'you 
could  do  well.' 

"Once  the  tide  turns,  it  seems  to  come 
full  tide.  Perhaps  I  could  do  well.  I 
thought.  When  things  get  in  your  blood, 
as  Shakespeare  got  in  mine,  they  stay 
there.  I  wrote  a  letter  to  The  $64,000  Ques- 
tion, in  care  of  the  Columbia  Broadcasting 
System  in  New  York.  Perhaps  I  didn't  say 
in  my  letter  the  things  I  should  have  said, 
in  the  way  I  should  have  said  them,  for  I 
didn't  receive  any  answer.  So  I  went  to  my 
friend,  Mr.  Edwin  Wilson,  the  principal 
of  Louisville's  Central  High  School,  and 
he  wrote  a  letter  for  me.  The  graduating 
class  of  that  year  sent  letters,  too,  speak- 
ing ol  me  as  I  could  not  have  been  so 
bold  to  speak  of  myself." 

In  due  course  of  time,  Mr.  Wilson  re- 
ceived an  answer  to  his  letter,  and  an  ap- 
plication form  to  be  filled  in  and  returned. 


Word  came  back  that  the  application  had 
been  accepted  and  that — although  the  pro- 
gram does  not  pay  an  applicant's  expenses 
to  New  York — they  would  be  pleased  to 
have  Mrs.  De  Berry  call  them,  if  she  were 
ever  in  the  city.  She  came  to  a  sudden 
decision.  "I  had  a  little  change,"  she  ex- 
plained. "My  friend.  Miss  Pearl  Mitchell, 
who  lives  in  New  York,  had  been  urging 
me  to  make  her  a  visit.  I'd  go  up  to  New 
York,  make  my  visit.  And  while  I  was 
there.  .  .  ." 

While  there,  she  called  the  number 
which  had  been  given  her,  was  inter- 
viewed, went  through  the  final  screening — 
and  suddenly,  one  Tuesday  night,  Mrs.  De 
Berry  found  herself  on  The  $64,000  Ques- 
tion. Why,  five  weeks  later,  she  stopped 
at  the  $16,000  plateau,  she  still  cannot 
quite  explain,  even  to  herself.  People  had 
been  so  kind.  And  the  chance  to  express 
her  love  of  Shakespeare  had  meant  so 
much.  "The  opportunity  to  honor  Shake- 
speare," she  said  simply,  "was  some  small 
return  for  the  joy  he  has  given  me.  I 
fully  intended  to  go  on  to  the  $32,000  ques- 
tion. I  can't  explain  why  I  didn't.  Some- 
thing confused  me,  something  I  can't  name. 
And  I  am  hurt  over  it,  hurt  bad.  I  would 
have  stood  up  there  for  the  $64,000  ques- 
tion itself — even  if,  by  so  doing,  I  had  lost 
— just  for  the  love  of  Shakespeare.  But 
so  much  had  already  happened,  that  was 
beyond  all  imagining.  .  .  ." 

Those  were  exciting  days.  What,  her 
friends  asked,  after  she  had  won  the  $16,- 
000,  was  she  going  to  do  with  all  this 
money?  "I  told  them,"  she  said,  "I  am 
going  to  buy  myself  a  very  fine  cloth  coat. 
I  am  going  to  buy  myself  two  or  three 
pairs  of  the  finest  kind  of  shoes,  and  some 
dresses.  I  won't  buy  many  dresses,  but  of 
the  very  best.  I  suspect  I  may  buy  myself 
a  piece  of  jewelry,  too,  as  a  keepsake.  If 
it  turns  out  to  be  possible,  I  would  like  to 
buy  a  little  house  in  the  country  .  .  .  have 
my  daughter  live  with  me,  if  she  wants  to 


.  .  .  have  friends  in,  the  circle  of  friends 
in  whom  I  have  worked  up  quite  an  in- 
terest in  Shakespeare  .  .  .  and  have  tea 
and  cakes. 

"If  I  can  see  my  way,  of  course,  I'd  love 
to  go  to  Europe.  If  I  could  visit  the 
Shakespeare  country,  find  myself — oh. 
Lord  of  Mercy — in  Stratford-on-Avon!  I 
have  always  been  interested  in  anything 
medieval,  especially  the  great  cathedrals 
in  Europe.  If  I  could  stand,  just  once,  in 
Westminster  Abbey,  visit  the  great  basilica 
of  St.  Peter's  in  Rome,  the  Duomo  in 
Florence,  Notre  Dame  in  Paris.  .  .  . 

"I  would  like  to  work  with  children  in 
Shakespearean  plays,  put  on  'The  Winter's 
Tale,'  with  the  children  doing  the  Dance 
of  the  Shepherds.  Put  on  Shakespearean 
plays  with  adults,  too.  If  all  this  had  hap- 
pened to  me  when  I  was  younger,  I  would 
have  tried  to  be  a  Shakespearean  actress. 
.  .  .  But,  at  the  very  least — and  perhaps 
for  the  very  best — the  opportunity  that  has 
been  given  me  may  encourage  everyone, 
young   or   old,   to   read   good   books 

"No,  the  money  is  not  of  the  first  im- 
portance. The  first  importance  is  that  I 
have  found  friends,  great  friends,  among 
strangers.  I  have  nothing  but  words  of 
praise  and  gratitude  to  say  of  the  Revlon 
people,  who  sponsor  The  $64,000  Question 
...  of  Mr.  Ben  Kagan  and  Mr.  Mert  Kop- 
lin  and  Mr.  Hal  March  ...  of  all  the  people 
,  with  whom  I  had  the  honor  to  be  asso- 
ciated. 

"And  to  think  it  was  Shakespeare,"  ex- 
claimed Mrs.  De  Berry,  "who  brought  me 
to  this  city  I  had  never  seen  before,  this 
fabulous  city  with  its  buildings  at  night 
like  castles  in  Spain!  I  want  to  stay  here 
longer,  and  perhaps  I  shall  be  here  again, 
on  The  $64,000  Challenge.  Because  of  this 
great  privilege  I  have  enjoyed,  so  many 
things  are  opening  up  for  me.  This  may 
be  all — or  there  may  be  more  to  come.  So 
be  it.  Never  in  my  whole  life  did  I  dream 
of  such  a  thing  as  this!" 


Thomas  J.  Kane 


(Continued  from  page  34) 
neighbors  to  hear  me  read  the  newspapers. 
And  of  the  pride  she  took  in  me,  a  child 
of  four,  as  I  read  them  with  a  precise 
understanding  of  each  and  every  word,  no 
matter  how  many  the  syllables.  But  the 
pride  should  have  been  in  herself,  for  it 
was  my  mother  who  taught  me,  not  only 
how  to  read,  but  also  how  to  look  up 
any  word  I  did  not  know.  A  more  fascinat- 
ing pursuit,"  laughed  walking-dictionary 
Kane,  "than  the  unraveling  of  any  who- 
dunit. Also  far  more  rewarding,  as  none 
should  know  better  than  I! 

"It  is  a  pursuit  I  have  followed  all  my 
life.  An  Oxford  dictionary,  in  ten  volumes, 
is  my  most  precious  possession.  Along  with 
my  violin — but  that  is  a  dream  of  which 
I  shall  tell  you  later,"  said  Tom,  crinkling 
his  eyes.  "To  go  back  to  my  boyhood: 
At  the  age  of  eleven,  I  taught  myself  to 
read  French.  I  recall  that  Alexandre  Du- 
mas' 'The  Three  Musketeers'  was  the  first 
book  I  read  in  the  original  French.  It  was 
just  having  so  many  books  around  the 
house — more  books  than  potatoes,  if  a 
choice  had  to  be  made! — which  made  a 
reader  of  me. 

"Of  them  all,  Dickens  was  my  favorite. 
Dickens,  I  all  but  memorized.  The  fact 
is  that,  when  I  was  accepted  as  a  con- 
testant on  The  $64,000  Question,  the  cate- 
gory I  wanted  was  Charles  Dickens,  not 
the  English  Language.  However,  Mrs. 
Elizabeth  Reed,  the  73-year-old  widow 
from  Copenhagen,  had  recently  'closed  the 
book'  on  Dickens  by  winning  $16,000  in 
that  category." 

While   the   matter   was   still   under   dis- 


cussion, production  supervisor  Ben  Kagan 
expressed  the  opinion  that  Tom  Kane  could 
go  on  the  program — and  win — in  any 
category.  Tom  himself  had  never  thought 
of  his  reading  as  a  means  of  acquiring 
knowledge,  had  no  other  purpose  in  mind 
than  the  pleasure  it  gave  him.  As  a 
youth,  he  had  supposed  that,  after  his 
three  years  at  Belfast's  Harding  Street 
Technical  School,  he  would  hold  some 
job  which  required  skilled  hands  and  a 
knowledge  of  higher  mathematics. 

"When  I  was  fifteen,"  Tom  recalled,  "I 
came  to  America  with  one  of  my  sisters. 
During  my  thirty-four  years  here,  I  have 
turned  my  hand  to  many  a  trade.  For 
years,  I  ran  a  riding  school  in  Lockport — 
the  only  animals  I'm  interested  in  are 
horses.  Later,  I  was  employed  by  the 
Harrison  Radiator  Company  in  Buffalo. 
Now,  for  some  while  past,  I  have  been 
with  the  Van  Dyke  Cab  Company — the 
biggest  cab  company  in  the  state,  outside 
of  New  York  City  itself.  And  the  finest 
company  of  its  kind  in  all  forty-eight 
states,  with  the  greatest  guy  in  the  world 
as  its  president! 

"How  is  it  now,  I've  been  asked  especi- 
ally since  I  won  on  The  $64,000  Question," 
Tom  winked  an  eye,  "how  is  it  that  a 
man  with  £ill  my  book  learning  is  a  cab 
driver?  To  tell  you  the  truth,  I  answer, 
it's  the  best  job  I  could  get.  'Tis  the  truth, 
too,  and  I'll  tell  you  why:  Prove  you're 
smarter  than  the  boss,  on  a  starched-white- 
collar  job,  and  you'll  not  hold  onto  that 
job.  On  one  job,  I  showed  the  company 
how  to  solve,  in  a  very  simple  way,  a  pro- 
duction problem   which   had   stumped   the 


WITH  EVtRr 
ORDER! 


■•  «i  ^  $1  deposH  must accoinpany  order)  ^vl 


50  on  just  50 


GREETING  CARD 

Assortments 


SEND  FOR 
SAMPLES 


JUPER 

All -Purpose 

Card  and  Note  As- 
sortment pays  yon  $1 
cash  on  every  box.  Friends  buy 
on  sight.  Newest  SLIM  cards  for       ^ 
Mother's  Day.  Eastern  Star,  Secret  Pal, 
all  occasions.  Bik  line  fast-setling  Costume 
Jewelry.  Gift  Items.  Profits  to  160%  on  Factory 
Surplus  Bargains  while  supply  lasts.  No  exper- 
ience needed.    Get  new  boxes  and  Gift  on  ap- 
proval; Bargain  list.  Stationery  samples  FREE.    

MIDWEST  CARD  CO.J113WashinEton,Dept.756-G,St.Loufs1.Mo. 


SHORTHAND 


Famous  SPEEDWRITING  shorthand.  120 
words  per  minute.  No  symbols,  no 
machines:  uses  ABC's.  Easiest  to 
learn,  write  and  transcribe.  Low  cost. 
Over  350,000  graduates.  For  business 
and  Civil  Service.  Typing  available. 
34th  year.  Write  for  FREE  booklet  to: 


High  School  Course 

at  Home 


Many  Finish  in  2  Years 

If  you  did  not  or  cannot  finish  high  school,  here  is 
your  opportunity.  Study  in  spare  time  at  home.  Go 
as  rapidly  as  your  time  and  abilities  permit.  Course 
equivalent  to  residential  school — prepares  for  college 
exams.  Standard  texts  supplied.  Credit  for  subjects 
already  completed.  Single  subjects  if  desired.  Diploma 
awarded.  Be  a  High  School  graduate.  Start  studies 
now.  Free  Bulletin.  Write  today. 

AMERICAN  SCHOOL,  Dept.  H-353 

Drexel  at  58th,  Chicago  37,  Illinois 


Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 
New  Way  Without  Surgery 

Science  Finds  Healing  Substance  That 
Relieves  Pain — Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 

For  the  first  time  science  has  found  a 
new  healing  substance  with  the  astonishing 
ability  to  shrink  hemorrhoids  and  to  relieve 
pain  —  without  surgery. 

In  case  after  case,  while  gently  relieving 
pain,  actual  reduction  (shrinkage)  took 
place. 

Most  amazing  of  all  —  results  were  so 
thorough  that  sufferers  made  astonishing 
statements  like  "Piles  have  ceased  to  be  a 
problem!" 

The    secret   is   a   new   healing   substance 
(Bio-Dyne*)  — discovery  of  a  world-famous        T 
research  institute.  _  * 

This   substance   is   now  available  in   sup-        R 
pository  or  ointment  form  under  the  name 
Preparation  H.*  Ask  for  it  at  all  drug  count- 
ers—money back  guarantee.    *Beg.  u.  8.  Pat.  ott. 

91 


experts.  And,  for  that,  I  was  demoted  to 
a  much  smaller  job.  As  for  teaching,  I 
haven't  a  college  diploma  and  couldn't  get 
a  job  teaching  morons  in  a  reform  school! 
"Married?"  Tom  echoed  the  query  with 
mischief  in  his  eye.  "I've  never  had  that 
misfortune!  Once  or  twice,  I've  been 
threatened.  For  instance,  one  of  my  pupils, 
a  young  person,  seemed  to  be  attending 
my  riding  school  beyond  the  call  of  duty. 
'A  pleasure  to  have  you  around,'  I  said  to 
her  one  day,  'but  don't  let  me  catch  you 
coming  up  here  with  your  suitcase  and 
trunk!'  A  pity,  too,"  Tom  sighed,  with 
mock  dismay,  "for  verily  it  has  been 
said,  'No  girl  knows  what  love  means 
until  she  had  been  made  love  to  by  a  red- 
headed Irishman!'  I'm  not  against  mar- 
riage, mind  you — for  someone  else.  And 
it's  not  that  I  don't  admire  the  fair  sex. 
Now  and  then,  I  take  a  young  lady  out — 
'date,'  as  they  call  it.  And  I  don't  mind 
that  in  the  least,  there  being  nothing 
permanent  about  it,  so  to  speak. 

"So  then,  I  live  alone  in  the  half -finished 
house  on  eighty  acres  of  land  I  bought 
some  years  ago  in  Lockport.  And  I  love 
it.  I  read,  happily  aware  that  the  great 
advantage  of  a  book  is  that  you  can  shut 
it  up,  if  you've  a  mind  to.  I  play  the 
violin — knowing  that,  when  you  play  the 
violin,  you've  got  to  live  alone!  I'm  an 
expert  cook,  but  have  very  little  need  to 
practice  the  culinary  art.  Four  of  my 
sisters — Mrs.  Isabel  McDonald,  Mrs.  Flor- 
ence Humphrey,  Mrs.  Kathleen  Little  and 
Mrs.  Charlotte  Coutourier — live  in  Lock- 
port,  too.  And  what  are  married  sisters 
for,  if  not  for  a  bachelor  brother  to  eat 
with?  At  the  end  of  the  working  day, 
I  just  drop  in  on  any  sister  I'm  near! 

"I  enjoy  my  work.  Different  people  all 
day,  every  day.  I  like  people.  When  you 
like  people,  you  talk  to  them.  And  if  I 
hadn't  talked  to  the  people  I  drove,"  Tom 
laughed,  "I  wouldn't  be  sitting  here  now, 
in  a  hotel  on  Fifth  Avenue,  telling  you  all 
about  myself!  For  this  is  how  it  all  began: 
One  day,  I  picked  up  four  fares — four  ad- 
vertising-agency men,  as  I  found  out — at 
the  Hotel  Statler  in  Buffalo.  They  wanted 
to  be  driven  to  the  Erlanger  Theater,  where 
they  asked  me  to  stand  by  and  take  them 
to  the  station.  When  they  came  out  and 
settled  in  my  cab,  I  asked  them,  'Why 
don't  you  boys  buy  the  theater  and  put  on 
a  good  version  of  "Lysistrata"?' 

"I  could  see  in  the  mirror  that  they  sort 
of  snapped  to  attention.  They  asked  some 
questions,  and  I  answered  that  'Lysistrata' 
was  the  title  and  the  heroine  of  a  Greek 
comedy  by  Aristophanes.  They  seemed  to 
be  getting  quite  excited,  spoke  of  the  diffi- 
culty of  getting  qualified  participants  for 
The  $64,000  Question,  and  asked  a  few 
more  questions.  Finally,  I  gave  them  my 
name  and  address,  just  before  they  caught 
their  train.  Eleven  days  later,  I  myself 
was  on  the  way  to  New  York  City,  hav- 
ing received  and  filled  in  an  application 
blank  for  The  $64,000  -  Qitestiori^ and 
having  duly  noted  the  show's  invitation  to 
call  their  number  if  I  should  be  in  town." 
Many  people,  before  these  four  men, 
had  asked  Tom,  "Why  don't  you  try  for 
The  $64,000  Question?"  As  Tom  explained, 
"I  never  did,  because  I  figured  it  was  im- 
possible, on  the  basis  of  mathematical 
computation — my  own  computation.  A 
million  or  more  applications.  Out  of  the 
million,  fifty  that  are  good.  Out  of  the 
fifty,  six  that  are  superlatively  good.  Why 
should  I  suppose  that  I — Tom  Kane,  cab 
driver — would  be  one  of  the  six?  As  I 
rode  the  train  to  New  York,  I  thought:  If 
I'm  'consoled'  with  the  award  of  a  Cadil- 
T  lac,  I'll  ride  it  up  and  down  Main  Street 
y  for  two  weeks,  then  sell  it." 
H  But,  as  of  that  moment,  Tom  continued: 
"I  hadn't  bought  a  suit  of  clothes  in  I 
don't  know  when,  so  I  had  to  buy  two 
suits  before  leaving  for  New  York — and 
92 


hated  doing  it.  Wfiaf  if  I  missed  out  on 
the  first  question." 

Once  in  New  York,  Tom  went  immed- 
iately to  the  Y.M.C.A.,  then  "walked  that 
night  over  every  square  foot  of  Manhattan." 
The  next  day,  he  was  interviewed  by 
Miss  Evelyn  Leven,  "a  very  charming, 
very  intelligent  young  woman."  They 
talked  about  a  number  of  things,  for 
Miss  Leven  was  checking  on  the  appli- 
cant's personality  and  ability  to  handle 
himself,  as  well  as  his  general  knowledge. 
Next,  Tom  was  quizzed  by  production  su- 
pervisor Ben  Kagan,  producer  Mert  Kop- 
lin,  and  three  others  of  The  $64,000  Ques- 
tion staff.  It  was  during  this  session  that 
Tom  chose  "The  English  Language"  as  his 
category. 

"Then,"  Tom  recalled,  "there  followed 
a  much  more  difficult  screening.  Dr. 
Bergen  Evans,  a  doctor  of  philosophy,  ca- 
techized me — and  oh,  he  really  did!  He 
questioned  me  about  unusual  words  from 
the  works  of  Edmund  Spenser,  the  Eliza- 
bethan   poet.     Obsolete    words,    most    of 


$1,000  REWARD 


.  .  .  !s  offered  lor  informafion  leading 
to  the  arrest  of  dangerous  "wanted" 
criminals.  Hear  details  about  the 
$1,000.00   reward   on   .  .  . 

TRUE  DETECTIVE 
MYSTERIES 

Every   Monday   Evening   on    MUTUAL 
Stations 

Death  uncovered  a  shockinq  conspiracy. 
Read  "The  Girl  Who  Inspired  Murder"  in 
March  TRUE  DETECTIVE  magazine,  now 
at  all  newsstands. 


which  he  didn't  actually  expect  me  to 
know.  But  I  must  have  made  a  fair  show- 
ing, for  Dr.  Evans  was  kind  enough  to  say 
that  he  had  never  met  anyone  with  'such 
an  extraordinary  vocabulary.'  He  should 
hear  me  when  truck  drivers  try  to  shove 
my  cab  up  on  the  sidewalk!  I've  never 
been  one  to  use  profanity.  I'm  able  to  ex- 
press myself  forcibly  without  swearing. 
Telling  them  'nicely'  how  to  park  their 
trucks  in  a  small  space  can  be  more  potent 
than  the  most  colorful  cuss  words. 

"After  that  final  screening,"  "Tom  con- 
tinued, "either  you're  on,  or  you're  not. 
This  was  a  Friday.  The  following  Tues- 
day, I  was  on.  In  the  meantime,  they  had 
me  transferred  from  the  'Y'  to  a  hotel  on 
Madison  Avenue.  Once  you're  scheduled 
to  appear,  they  pick   up  the  tab. 

"I  had  only  one  edgy  moment,"  he  re- 
called, "and  that  was  when  I  was  asked — 
as  part  five  of  the  eight-part  $64,000  ques- 
tion— to  name  'a  generic  term  for  any  im- 
portant Greek  temple.'  Then  I  hesitated, 
not  sure  whether  they  wanted  the  noun 
hieron  or  the  adjectival  hieros.  However, 
I  said  'hieron,'  and  the  luck  of  the  Irish 
held.     When  we  came  to  the  eighth  and 


last  part  of  this  crucial  question — 'a  frame 
on  which  skins  are  dried,  as  for  parchment' 
— I  answered,  'herse.'  And,  with  that  last 
word,  I'd  won  the  summit  prize. 

"As  soon  as  I  stepped  down  from  that 
summit,  it  was  into  such  a  whirl  as  has 
to  be  lived  to  be  believed!  In  the  audience 
that  night  were  my  boss,  John  J.  Montana, 
his  wife,  and  his  chauffeur,  Johnny  Ger- 
vase.  Mr.  Montana  wanted  me  to  go  out 
and  celebrate  at  the  famous  21  Club.  But 
— since  I  neither  drink  nor  smoke — I  told 
him  I'd  just  sit  there  like  a  jerk,  a  cup 
of  coffee  before  me,  while  almost  every- 
one else  was  getting  meUow  on  champagne. 
So  I  said  thanks  very  much,  but  I'll  just  go 
to  a  drugtore  and  have  a  cup  of  coffee  with 
my  nephew-by-marriage,  Ted  Stamm." 

But  there  were  other  nights,  and  other 
celebrations.  "Another  time,"  Tom  remi- 
nisced, "John  Downey,  vice-president  of 
the  Van  Dyke  Cab  Company,  took  me  to 
the  Stork  Club,  where  we  got  the  real  red- 
carpet  treatment.  And,  a  few  days  after 
that,  Mr.  Montana  took  me  to  the  Wood- 
bine Clubhouse  in  Toronto,  Canada. 

"Then  Frank  J.  Moyer,  Jr.,  mayor  of 
Lockport,  proclaimed  'Tom  Kane  Day,'  and 
I  received  the  key  to  the  city.  There  was 
a  parade,  a  very  nice  luncheon  at  the 
Park  Hotel — nicest  part  of  that,  I  didn't 
have  to  pay  for  it — and  there  were 
speeches.  I  even  had  some  women  kiss  me! 
I've  also  been  on  the  Good  Morning  show 
with  Will  Rogers,  Jr.  And,  of  course,  on  . 
The  $64,000  Challenge,  the  Question's  sis-  | 
ter  quiz.  The  Revlon  people  have  even 
said  they  would  like  to  have  me  go  to  Eng- 
land and  be  on  The  64,000  Shilling  program 
which  they  also  sponsor  over  there. 

"Other  honors  have  been  proffered  me," 
Tom  said,  with  simple  dignity.     "As  was   1 
my  prerogative  at  the  $64,000  level,  I  >yas  I 
accompanied    in    the    program's    isolation   * 
booth  by  an  expert  of  my  own  choosing 
— Mr.  David  Guralnik,  lexicographer  and 
editor-in-chief   of   The   World   Publishing 
Company.    They  publish  the  New  Webster 
Dictionary,    and   have   told   me   they   will 
publish  anything  I  write! 

"But,  of  all  the  rewarding  things  that 
have  happened  to  me,  the  most  rewarding 
took  place  on  the  day  I  went  to  Carnegie 
Hall,  in  New  York,  and  Mr.  Rembert  Wur- 
litzer  brought  over  this  beautiful  Stradi- 
varius.  Now,  all  my  life  I  have  dreamed 
of  touching  a  Stradivarius — just  touching, 
nothing  more.  A  dream  came  more  than 
true  for  me,  this  day.  I  not  only  touched, 
I  played  a  part  of  Mendelssohn's  Concerto 
in  E-minor  on  a  Stradivarius.  A  beautiful 
one  which  can  be  bought  for  $18,000,  by 
anyone  blessed  enough  to  be  able  to  do  so. 

"Other  dreams  have  come  true,  too — or 
are  about  to,"  said  Tom  Kane.  "Some 
time  in  the  months  to  come,  two  of  my 
sisters  and  I  are  going  back  to  the  Auld 
Sod,  on  which  I  haven't  set  foot  since  I  left 
it  as  a  mere  lad.  And  there  is  my  house, 
which  looks  a  little  like  Tobacco  Road,  in 
its  present  condition — not  a  shingle  on  the 
outside.    Now  it  will  get  a  little  fixing  up. 

"Other  than  the  expense  of  the  trip  to 
the  Old  Country  and  a  few  shingles  for 
the  house — and  perhaps  a  new  TV  set— the 
rest  of  my  prize  money  will  be  put  into 
blue-chip  securities.  I'm  not  so  young 
but  what  an  assured  income  isn't  indicated. 
If  I  should  win  more  on  The  $64,000  Chal- 
lenge— that  is,  over  and  above  what  I 
have  now — perhaps  I'll  buy  that  beautiful 
Stradivarius.  I  could  make  it  a  sort  of 
'musical  foimdation,'  to  be  borrowed  by 
students  in  the  schools  or  universities  who 
need  such  an  instrument  to  give  a  concert." 

Tom  sighed  contentedly,  as  he  momen- 
tarily tabled  this  latest  dream.  "It's  been 
a  wonderful  experience,  wonderfiil.  I  told 
myself,  the  other  night:  If  I  were  only 
permitted  a  word  to  describe  it,  I'd  use 
one  of  the  most  beautiful  words  in  the 
English  language — memorable." 


e  auiiful    zTiair 

E      C 


K 


THERE  ARE  THREE  BRECK  SHAMPOOS 
FOR   THREE    DIFFERENT    HAIR    CONDITIONS 

The  Breck  Shampoo  for  your  individual  hair  condition  helps 
bring  out  the  natural  beauty  of  your  hair.  There  are  Three 
Breck  Shampoos.  One  Breck  Shampoo  is  for  dry  hair. 
Another  Breck  Shampoo  is  for  oily  hair.  A  third  Breck 
Shampoo  is  for  normal  hair.  A  Breck  Shampoo  is  mild  and 
gentle  in  action  and  is  not  drying  to  the  hair.  A  Breck 
Shampoo   leaves   your   hair   soft,    lustrous   and   beautiful. 

The  Three  Breck  Shampoos  are  available  at  Beauty  Shops,  Drug  Stores,  Department  Stores  and  wherever  cosmetics  are  sold. 


Copyright  1957  by  John  H.  Brcclc  inc. 

JOHN       H       BRECK       INC  •  MANUFACTURING        CHEMISTS 

NEW  YORK  •  CHICAGO  ■  SAN  FRANCISCO  •  I,  OS 


SPRINGFIELD       J         MASSACHUSETTS 
ANGELES  •  OTTAWA  CANADA 


Taste  is  what  falks  talk  about 

-and Me  about  WINSTON 

People  keep  saying  how  really  good  Winstons  taste!  And... 
how  the  exclusive  Winston  fAH&c—sno'wy-wMte  and  'pure— 
lets  that  rich  flavor  come  through!  If  you  haven't  tried 
today's  most  talked-about  flavor-filter  combination,  latch  onto 
a  pack  of  Winstons  right  now— for  flavory  filter  smoking! 


R.J.  REYNOLDS  TOBACCO  CO. . WINSTON-SALEM.  N.C. 


Smoke  WINSTON  Americas  best-selling,  best-tasting  filter  cigarette! 


ADIO  MIRROR 


MIRROR 


from  Springfield,  Mo. 


Dinah 
Shore 


iging  Sensation 


^•iH*K,i, 


Cincinnatrs 
HA  PERKINS' 
eal  Life  Story 


LOREHA  YOUNG 
Live  for  Today 

DEBBIE  &  EDDIE 
Joyous  Life 

RONNIE  BURNS 
Success  Story 


DINAH  SHORE:  Mother  of  the  Year 
An  Evening  vifith*  ELVIS  PRESLEY 


originator  of  creme  /^nail  polish 

''Mine  is  the  one  and 
only  nail  polish  at  any  price 
containing  Plasteen, . . 
the  miracle,  chip-proofing 
ingredient!'' 

still  only XO^ 


New- Formula  iridescent  Nail  Polish 

in  four  fabulous  jewel  shades     only  20^ 

Super  Lasteen  Lipstick 

in  the  improved  free  wheeling,  swivel  case 
with  the  unique  color-teller  tip     only   39^' 


en  musnaerei 

at  your  favorite  variety  or  drug  stoi^ 


Are  you  ever  eXClted. . . 


tense. . . 


rushed?... 

That's  vihen  most  deodorants  fail. ..but  new  MUM  Cream  keeps  working 


You've  probably  noticed  .  .  .  when  you're  under  emotional  pressure,  your 
perspiration  glands  suddenly  get  more  active.  That's  when  deodorants  which 
depend  on  stopping  perspiration  let  you  down,  and  odor  often  starts. 

New  Mum®  Cream  works  a  completely  different  way.  It  is  the  only  leading  de- 
odorant that  works  entirely  by  stopping  odor.  Mum  keeps  on  working  actively  to 
stop  odor  24  hours  a  day— no  matter  how  active  your  perspiration  glands  are. 

No  wonder  Mum  is  so  dependable.  Isn't  that  what  you  want? 


More  people  depend  on  MUM 
than  on  any  other  deodorant, . .  it  works  when  others  fail 


ANOTHER    FTNE    PRODUCT    OF    BRISTOL-MYERS 


WHY 

WON'T  YOU 
LISTEN? 


You  hear  it  from  your  friends  .  .  .  you 
read  it  in  the  Tampax  columns  .  .  .  and 
still  you  won't  accept  the  advantages 
of  Tampax®  internal  sanitary  protection. 
You  turn  your  head  away.  You  stub- 
bornly cling  to  an  outmoded  point  of 
view.  Actually,  Tampax  was  invented  by 
a  doctor  for  the  benefit  of  all  women. 
Millions  use  it;  millions  enthuse  about 
it.  You're  no  different  from  any  of  them 
— listen  to  their  point  of  view  about 
Tampax. 

Women  like  the  comfort  of  Tampax; 
it  can't  even  be  felt  when  it's  in  place. 
Women  like  the  discreetness  of  Tampax; 
no  bulges,  no  ridges,  no  telltale  outlines. 
Women  like  the  daintiness  of  Tampax; 
it's  convenient  to  carry,  easy  to  insert 
and  change — and  it  absolutely  prevents 
odor  from  forming.  In  every  possible 
way — from  the  fact  it  can  be  worn  in 
shower  or  tub  to  its  ease  of  disposal — 
Tampax  is  a  far  nicer  way  of  handling 
"those  days."  Listen.  Consider.  And 
you'll  want  to  try  Tampax. 

That's  all  it  takes — just  a  try.  Choose 
from  Regular,  Super  or  Junior  absorb- 
encies  wherever  drug  products  are  sold. 
Give  Tampax  a  chance!  Tampax  Incor- 
Dorated,  Palmer,  Mass. 


■r-'.^'^M'^' 


:~w^K 


Invented  by  a  doctor — 
now  used  by  millions  of  women 


TV 


HADIO 
MIRROR 


APRIL,  1957 


ATLANTIC  EDITION 


VOL.  47,  NO.  5 


Ann  Higginbotham,  Editorial  Director 
Ann  Mosher,  Editor  Jack  Zasorin,  Art  Director 

Teresa  Buxton,  Managing  Editor  Fiances  Maly,  Associate  Art  Director 

Claire  Safran,  Associate  Editor  Joan  Clarke,  Art  Assistant 

Dick  Sheppard,  Assistant  Editor  Bud  Goode,  West  Coast  Editor 


PEOPLE  ON  THE  AIR 

What's  New  on  the  East  Coast by  Peter  Abbott  4 

What's  New  on  the  West  Coast by  Bud  Goode  14 

Always  Near  Your  Heart   (Dinah  Shore) by  Maxine  Arnold  19 

Cincinnati's  Ma  Perkins  (Virginia  Payne) by  Frances  Kish  22 

Twelve  Answers  for  Teens  ( Eloise  English ) by  Martin  Cohen  26 

Jim  Lowe  from  Springfield,  Mo by  Helen  Bolstad  28 

Call  It  Luck  (Joan  Alexander) by  Marie  Haller  32 

As  The   World  Turns    (a  Fiction  Bonus  from  the  popular  weekday 

drama)     44 

Mama  (reunion  with  TV's  beloved  Hansen  family) 46 

An  Evening  with  Elvis  Presley by  George  Klein  50 

Make  Up  Your  Mind  (who's  who  and  what's  what  on  the  provocative 

panel  program )    52 

My  Life  with  George  and  Gracie  (Ronnie  Burns) . .  .by  Eunice  Field  54 

FEATURES  IN  FULL  COLOR 

Live  for  Today  (Loretta  Young) by  Dora  Albert  34 

He's  Funny  That  Way  (George  Gobel) by  Herman  Goebel  36 

Sentimental  Journey  (Bill  Leyden) by  Gordon  Budge  40 

Happiness  Plus  (Debbie  and  Eddie  Fisher)... by  Pauline  Townsend  42 

YOUR  LOCAL  STATION 

Home  Is  Where  The  Music  Is  (WOR)   8 

The  Record  Players :  Versatile's  the  Word by  Gene  Stuart  10 

Magic  in  His  Voice   (WPIX)    12 

At  Ease   (WBUF)    16 

Because  They  CARE   59 

Music  Is  His  Beat   (WWDC)    60 

Three  for  All  (WILK)    61 


YOUR  SPECIAL  SERVICES 

TV  Radio  Mirror  Goes  to  the  Movies by  Janet  Graves  6 

Information    Booth 13 

New  Patterns  for  You  (smart  wardrobe  suggestions) 15 

A  Message  for  Easter 17 

New  Designs  for  Living  (needlecraft  and  transfer  patterns) 90 

Cover  Portrait  of  Dinah  Shore  by  Elmer  Holloway  of  NBC 


BUY     YOUR     MAY     ISSUE     EARLY     •     ON     SALE     APRIL     4 


\'»'» 


PUBLISHED       MONTHLY       by       Macfadden 
Publications,  Inc.,  New  York.  N.  Y. 
^    EXECUTIVE,      ADVERTISING      AND      EDI- 
-  TORIAL      OFFICES      at      205      East      42nd 
Street,    New    York.    N.    Y.    Editorial    Branch 
^Office:    6269    Selma    Ave.,    Hollywood    28, 
*  Calif.     Irving     S.      Manlieimer,     President; 
I.ee      Andrews.       Vice      President;       Meyer 
^■Otfc^         Dworkin,    Secretary  and  Treasurer.    Adver- 
tising offices    also    in    Chicago.    221    North 
LaSalle  Street,  and  San  Francisco. 

SUBSCRIPTION  RATES:  $3.00  one  year,  U.  S.  and 
Possessions  and  Canada,  $5.00  per  year  for  all  other 
countries. 

CHANGE  OF  ADDRESS:  6  weeks'  notice  essential. 
When  possible,  please  furnish  stencil  impression  ad- 
dress from  a  recent  issue.  Address  changes  can  be 
made  only  If  you  send  us  your  old,  as  well  as  your 
new  address.  Write  to  TV  Radio  Mirror.  205  East 
42nd  Street,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 
MANUSCRIPTS:  All  manuscripts  will  be  carefully  coa- 


sldered,  but  publisher  cannot  be  responsible  for  loss  or 
damage.  It  Is  advisable  to  keep  a  duplicate  copy  for 
your  records.  Only  those  manuscripts  accompanied  by 
stamped,  seU-addre5sed  return  envelopes  or  with  suffi- 
cient return  postage  will  be  returned. 

FOREIGN    editions    nandled    through    Macfadden    Publi- 
cations International  Corp,,  205  East  42nd  Street,  New 
York    17.  N.   Y.    Irving  S.   Manheimer,   President;    Doug- - 
las  Lockhart,    Vice  President. 

RE-ENTERED  as  Second  Class  Matter,  June  28.  1954. 
at  the  Post  Office  at  New  York,  N.  Y..  under  the  Act  of 
March  3,  1879.  Authorized  as  Second  Class  mail,  P.O. 
Dept.,  Ottawa.  Ont..  Canada.  Copyright  1957  by  Mac- 
fadden Publications,  Inc.  All  rights  reserved  under  In- 
ternational Copyright  Convention.  All  rights  reserved  ; 
under  Pan-American  Copyright  Convention.  Todos  de-  - 
rechop  reservados  se?un  la  Convencion  Pan-Americana 
de  Propledad  Literaria  y  Artistica.  Title  trademark 
registered  in  U.S.  Patent  Office.  Printed  in  U.  S.  A. 
by  Art  Color  Printing  Company. 

Member  of  the  TRUE  STORY  Women's  Group 


Years  from  now,  passers-by  will  note  their  initials 

in  the  birch  tree's  bark.  And  it  looks  as  if  this  love  affair 

would  last  even  longer.  Young  as  they  are,  both  Pat 

and  Andy  have  learned  that  unpleasant  breath  is  a 

barrier  to  romance.  When  they  whisper  "sweet  nothings," 

you  may  be  sure  they'll  nay  sweet,  thanks  to 

the  security  that  gargling  with  Listerine  Antiseptic  brings. 

The  most  common  cause  of  bad  breath  is 
germs  .  .  .  Listerine  kills  germs  by  millions 

The  most  common  cause  of  bad  breath 
hy  far  is  germs  that  ferment  the  protein  always 
present  in  the  mouth.  Listerine  Antiseptic  kills 
germs'  instantly  ...  by  millions. 

Tooth  paste  can't  kill  germs 
the  way  Listerine  does 

Tooth  paste  can't  kill  germs  the  way 
Listerine  does,  because  no  tooth 
paste  is  antiseptic.  Listerine  IS 
antiseptic.  That's  why  Listerine 
stops  bad  breath  four  times 
better  than  tooth  paste. 
Gargle  Listerine  full-strength, 
morning  and  night. 


LISTERINE 

the  most  widely 

used  antiseptic 

in  the  world. 


aj 

usTe^>4[|^ 

C^ 

~:3Kk 

ugpM 

1 

^^""^H 

s^^ 

«     _J^ 

LISTERINE  ANTISEPTIC  stops  bad  breath  4  times  better  than  tooth  paste 


WHAT'S  NEW  ON  THE  EAST 


By  PETER  ABBOTT 


Glamorous  Liz  Allen  added  curves  when  she  dropped  fashion  modeling.  And, 
OS  Gleoson's  Awoy-We-Go-Girl,  she  takes  cues  for  comedy  from  Art  Carney. 


Marge  oi Search  For  Tomorrow^  Melbo 
Roe  bets  it'll  be  a   boy,   due  in  June. 


Scoop  &  Double-Scoop:  Presley  is  ru- 
mored to  be  considering  an  offer  to  head 
his  own  series  of  spectaculars  next  fall  on 
a  major  TV  network.  Speaking  of  Elvis, 
Bing  Crosby  has  this  to  say  in  Dave 
Kaufman's  Variety  column:  "You  can't 
just  sing  'Hound  Dog'  all  the  time,  and  his 
tunes  all  sound  like  it.  I  think  he's  a  sexy- 
looking  kid,  and  can  do  very  well  in  his 
career  if  he  makes  the  most  of  the  op- 
portunity. But  he  has  to  take  those  side- 
burns off,  and  do  other  things.  The  kids 
will  like  him  all  the  more,  if  he's  smart 
and  segues  into  something  else."  .  .  . 
Eydie  Gorme  and  Steve  Lawrence  reported 
to  be  just  around  the  corner  from  the 
altar.  .  .  .  Phyllis  McGuire,  youngest  of 
the  great  singing  trio,  is  going  very,  very 
steady.  Lucky  man  is  one  of  Manhattan's 
top  oral  surgeons.  .  .  .  "Ex-Challenger 
Sonny  Fox,  still  of  Let's  Take  A  Trip,  will 
watch  his  wife  take  a  trip  to  maternity 
hospital  come  June.  .  .  .  Handsome  Ed 
Murrow  planning  to  cut  down  on  his  work. 
Most  likely  his  radio  chores  will  go. 
Neither  illness  nor  anything  else  of  a 
serious  nature  involved.  .  .  .  An  electronic 
manufacturer  will  cut  cost  of  color  TV 
receivers  to  $300  by  late  spring.  .  .  .  Doug 
Fairbanks,  Jr.,  may  be  named  an  ambas- 
sador. .  .  .  Judy  Garland  has  had  it  and  so 
has  CBS.  What  a  furor!  Judy  was  sup- 
posed to  do  a  big,  special  show  on  Feb- 
ruary 28  but  didn't  like  the  CBS  program 
outline.  They  thought  she  should  do  an 
extract  of  her  night-club  and  stage-show 
acts.  Judy  didn't  think  this  was  much  of 
an  idea,  and  furthermore  felt,  after  her 
Palace  engagement,  that  she  was  too  tired 
to  create  her  own.  Sponsors  and  CBS  in 
agony.  Judy  remained  adamant.  So  CBS 
tore  up  long-term  contract.  The  loser:  The 
public.  .  .  .  Just  as  it's  titled,  "The  Very 


Happy  Piano"  is  a  very  happy  listening. 
It's  a  Columbia  collection  of  Errol  Garner, 
one  of  the  most  creative  of  jazz  pianists. 

Panel  Panic:  Polly  Bergen,  "anchor  man" 
on  To  Tell  The  Truth,  thrilled  over  Play- 
house 90  assignment  for  May  2,  when  she 
plays  title  role  in  "Helen  Morgan  Story." 
But  beautiful  Bergen  notes  that  her  con- 
tinuing panel  work  is  plenty  rugged.  Says 
she,  "It's  high-tension  work.  Particularly 
this  new  panel  show.  It's  like  being  a  quiz 
contestant.  There's  no  time  to  relax."  Many 
people  think  you  get  to  be  a  panelist  by 
knowing  the  right  people.  Actually,  in  the 
case  of  To  Tell  The  Truth,  Polly  was  one 
of  300  persons  auditioned.  Panelists  were 
chosen  for  appearance,  intelligence,  charm, 
wit,  and  composure.  It's  like  no  other  as- 
pect of  show  business  and  PoUy  should 
know,  for  she  has  starred  on  Broadway,  in 
more  than  a  dozen  movies,  in  TV  and 
radio  and  on  records.  "One  of  my  big 
problems  on  the  panel  show  is  the  fact  that 
I'm  near-sighted,  which  means  I  have  to 
sneak  on  my  glasses  when  the  camera  is 
off  me."  In  private  life,  Polly  is  married 
to  Freddie  Fields,  an  exec  at  Music  Corpo- 
ration of  America.  The  Fields,  with  nine- 
year-old  daughter  Kathy,  live  in  a  ten- 
room  apartment.  Polly  has  decorated  her 
apartment  so  beautifully  that  her  close 
friends,  Phil  and  Evelyn  Silvers,  have 
called  on  her  to  do  their  honeymoon  apart- 
ment. Polly  makes  a  rare  excursion  out  of 
the  city  next '  month  when  she  goes  to 
Hollywood  studios  for  Playhouse  90.  "Gen- 
erally, I  turn  down  night-club  or  movie 
work  that  requires  my  leaving  Manhattan," 
she  says,  and  explains,  "This  is  as  a  result 
of  my  childhood.  My  father  was  a  con- 
tracting engineer  and  we  lived  in  five  to  ten 
different  towns  every  year.  It  was  no  fun." 


Kind  of  Personal:  Jimmy  Durante  can't 
do  enough  for  people.  Ask  him  to  a  party 
and  he  knocks  himself  out  entertaining. 
He's  big-hearted,  an  easy  touch,  always 
ready  to  lend  himself  to  benefits  and  a 
good  cause,  so  it's  altogether  fitting  tha^ 
there  should  be  an  Entertainment  Industr^ 
Tribute  to  Jimmy  Durante  at  New  York'g 
Waldorf-Astoria  on  March  17.  Sponsored 
by  the  Jewish  Theatrical  Guild,  the  testi- 
monial dinner  will  also  raise  funds  for  the 
Motion  Picture  Relief  Fimd,  Will  Rogers 
Hospital,  Welfare  Funds  of  AGVA  and 
AFTRA,  Actors  Fimd,  Catholic  Actors 
Guild,  Yiddish  Theatrical  Alliance,  Negrol 
Actors  Guild  and  Episcopal  Actors  Guilda 
.  .  .  And  while  on  the  subject  of  awards  J 
let  it  be  noted  that,  on  March  26,  Perrjw 
Como  receives  the  Friars'  Club's  Man  of* 
the  Year  Testimonial.  Usually  Perry  tries 
to  avoid  testimonials  but  he's  quite  flushed 
about  this  one.  .  .  .  And  Perry  Como's 
ex-secretary,  now  Mrs.  Julius  La  Rosa,  has 
exciting  news.  She's  gonna  make  Julie  afl 
pappy.  About  July  24.  Says  Julie,  "I  hopel 
this  will  be  the  first  of  timpteen."  .  .  . 
Virginia  Graham  got  herself  a  good,  new 
deal.  She  becomes  official  spokesman  for. 
Colgate.  A  job  comparable  to  the  one 
Betty  Furness  does  for  Westinghouse.  .  .  . 
Trend  toward  more  and  more  calypso 
music.  Predict  in  another  year  it  will  rival 
rock  'n'  roll,  and  with  cause.  New  calypso 
is  vivid,  rhythmic  and  full  of  vitahty.  Proof 
of  this  is  a  Columbia  item  entitled  "Hi  Fi 
Calypso,  Etc.,"  starring  Enid  Mosier, 
Broadway  star.  She's  just  tremendous. 
.  .  .  Positively  set  for  "George  M.  Cohan 
Story"  on  NBC-TV,  May  11th,  is  Mickey 
Rooney,  assisted  by  Gloria  DeHaven  and 
June  Havoc.  All  three  were  raised  in 
vaudevUle  and  should  superbly  interpret 
the  Cohan  era.  .  .  .  It's  true  that  Ed  SuUi- 


For  IVhat's  New  On  The  West  Coast,  See  Page  14 


COAST 


Schnoz  Jimmy  Durante  consented  to  be 
put  on  a   "pedasill" — but  for  charity. 


van  sneaks  out  of  Manhattan  on  free  after- 
noons— he's  off  to  visit  his  grandchildren  in 
New  Rochelle. 

Have  a  Calorie:  One  nice  thing  about 
TV  is  that  you  don't  have  to  be  absolutely 
skinny.  Everyone's  commenting  how  much 
better  Liz  Allen  looks.  Not  so  gaunt.  Liz 
is  Jackie  Gleason's  Away-We-Go-Girl. 
Until  recently  Liz  was  combining  fashion 
modeling  with  her  TV  career.  For  fash- 
ion, you've  got  to  be  positively  splintery. 
Now  Liz,  who  has  launched  her  singing 
career  at  the  Stork  Club,  can  afford  to  eat 
nearly  normal,  for  she  has  given  up  fash- 
ion modeling.  TV  cameras  permit  a  little 
flesh.  Another  gal,  Nancy  Walter,  just 
graduated  from  a  Glea-girl  to  a  Portrette, 
had  a  similar  experience.  Nancy,  one  of 
the  most  beautiful  gals  in  the  cotmtry, 
gave  up  fashion  modeling  for  TV  because 
she  never  felt  right.  Not  getting  enough  to 
eat.  She  started  out  on  The  Big  Payoff. 
Now  she  makes  enough  dough  to  pay  for 
vocal  lessons,  a  comfortable  apartment, 
clothes — and  a  double-decker  sandwich 
when  she  pleases. 

Hit  &  Run:  Pat  Boone's  father-in-law, 
Red  Foley,  now  doing  two  radio  shows  a 
week  for  ABC.  .  .  .  Another  of  Red's  dis- 
coveries is  hitting  big  time  via  rock  'n' 
roll  on  Capitol  discs.  That's  Sonny  James, 
twenty-nine,  whose  disc,  "Young  Love," 
started  out  as  a  country  record,  jumped 
the  traces  into  the  pop  class  and  climbed 
close  to  two -million  in  sales.  .  .  .  Young 
Sanford  Clark,  newly-discharged  from  the 
Air  Force,  breaks  the  news  that  he  mar- 
ried Lucy  Thrasher,  sister  of  his  fan  club 
prexy,  early  last  spring.  He  is  set  to  sing 
in  Miami,  Florida,  during  February  and 
March.    Also     (Continued    on    page    70) 


Singer  and  panelist  Polly  Bergen  enjoys  a  night  out  at  The  Harwyn  with 
husband  Freddie  Fields.  She'll  fly  West  to  play  sultry  Helen  Morgan  on  TV. 


T 

British  Donald  Gray  auditioned  American  starlets  for  The  Vise.  Finalists  were      ! 
Rita   Constance,   Geraldine    MacDonald,    Marjorie    Milliard,    Pauline    Papl- 
neau,  Kay  Kimberly,  Beverly  Timsak,  Kim  Townsend.  "Smashing,"  said  Don. 

5 


After  a  Paris  jam  session,  Edward 
R.  Murrow  gets  Louis  Armstrong 
into  a  confiding  mood.    In  Africa, 
Lucille  Armstrong  shows  natives 
how  to  dance  to  her  husband's  jazz. 


TV 


MIADIO 
MIRROR 


TV  favorites  on 

your  theater  screen 

By  JANET  GRAVES 
The  Saga  of  Satchmo 

UNITED  ARTISTS 

For  one  of  his  See  It  Now  programs,  Edward 
R.  Murrow  sent  his  roving  camera  crew 
along  with  Louis  Armstrong  to  Europe  and 
Africa,  but  only  about  ten  minutes  of  the 
show  is  used  in  this  thoroughly  delightful 
movie.  All  the  rest  is  brand-new,  the  rousing 
story  of  the  New  Orleans  jazz  man  who  has 
carried  America's  own  music  to  cheering 
fans  overseas.  Interviewed  by  Murrow,  Louis 
outlines  his  background  and  musical  beliefs. 
And  the  camera  follows  him  from  Switzer- 
land to  Paris  to  Africa  to  London  and  back 
home  for  a  concert  with  New  York's  Phil- 
harmonic. Reactions  of  all  the  listeners  are 
fascinatingly  different,  but  the  most  exciting 


tKi 


J 


are  seen  on  Africa's  Gold  Coast,  where  peo- 
ple recognize  the  music  descended  from 
theirs,  and  "Satchmo"  plays  with  his  group 
for  a  bigger  crowd  than  any  musical  per- 
formance has  ever  attracted.  Lovers  of  the 
good  old  Dixieland  style  will  find  this  pic- 
ture a  rich  treat.  TV  viewers  devoted  to 
Omnibus  will  find  an  old  friend  in  young 
conductor  -  composer  -  commentator  Le  o  n  a  r  d 
Bernstein,  who  practically  blows  his  stack 
while  conducting  "St.  Louis  Blues." 

Top  Secret  Affair 

WARNERS 

Though  Susan  Hayward  and  Kirk  Douglas 
are  the  stars,  Jim  Backus  adds  plenty  of 
laughs  to  this  gay  romantic  farce.  Jim  is 
known  on  TV  as  Joan  Davis'  husband  in  / 
Married  Joan,  and  he's  also  the  voice  of 
animated  cartoons'  nearsighted  Mister  Ma- 
goo.  Here,  he  has  a  subordinate  but  amusing 
role  as  public-relations  officer  for  Army  gen- 
eral Kirk.  Plotting  to  give  the  general  the 
works  in  a  news-magazine  profile,  Susan 
softens  when  love  enters  the  picture. 


At  Your  Neighborhood  Theaters 

The  Young  Stranger  (RKO) :  In  an  ex- 
cellent film  based  on  a  hit  TV  play,  James 
MacArthur  does  a  splendid  job  as  a  teen- 
ager in  trouble.  TV  regular  James  Daly  is 
his  stubborn  father;  Kim  Hunter,  his  mother. 

The  Rainmaker  (Wallis,  Paramount:  Vista- 
Vision,  Technicolor)  :  Also  born  as  a  TV 
show,  later  a  Broadway  success,  this  wistful 
comedy-drama  gives  Katharine  Hepburn  a 
lovable  role  as  a  farm  spinster  who  gets  en- 
couragement from  adventurer  Burt  Lancaster. 

Edge  of  the  City  (M-G-M)  :  Score  one  more 
for  TV's  playwrights.  The  familiar  John  Cas- 
savetes is  an  unhappy  youth,  deliberately 
friendless  until  Sidney  Poitier  takes  an  in- 
terest in  him.  Gentle  to  begin  with,  the  film 
ends  violently. 

The  Wrong  Man  (Warners)  :  Alfred  Hitch- 
cock turns  from  whimsy  to  a  story  based  on 
fact.  Henry  Fonda's  a  musician  accused  of 
robbery;   Vera  Miles,  his  wife. 


Showing  this  month 


ALL  THIS  AND  HEAVEN  TOO  (War- 
ners): Drama  of  19th  Century  France,  ex- 
cellently acted  by  Bette  Davis,  governess 
named  as  motive  for  nobleman  Charles 
Boyer's  alleged  murder  of  wife  Barbara 
O'Neil. 

BIG  STREET,  THE  (RKO) :  Lucille 
Ball  does  a  first-rate  dramatic  job  in  the 
Damon  Runyon  story  of  a  gangster's  -ex- 
sweetie,  crippled,  yet  rebuffing  the  friend- 
ship of  bus-boy  Henry  Fonda. 

CAGE  OF  GOLD  (Ellis) :  Jean  Simmons 
sparks  up  a  British  suspense  item  with  her 
beauty  and  skill.  Believing  that  caddish 
husband  David  Farrar  is  dead,  she  marries 
James  Donald.  Then  Farrar  returns. 

CAT  PEOPLE  (RKO) :  Wonderfully  eerie 
fantasy  casts  Simone  Simon  as  a  girl  who 
trusts  in  an  ancestral  legend.  She  holds 
husband  Kent  Smith  off,  sure  that  embrace 
will  turn  her  into  a  jungle  cat. 

DAISY  KENYON  (20th):  Adult  triangle 
drama  finds  artist  Joan  Crawford  involved 
in  an  affair  with  Dana  Andrews,  a  married 
man.  A  widowed  war  veteran,  Henry  Fonda 
also  loves  Joan. 

DESPERADOES,  THE  (Columbia): 
Lively  Western.  Glenn  Ford's  the  ex-outlaw 
who  can't  avoid  trouble;  Randolph  Scott, 
the  sheriff;  Claire  Trevor,  the  good-hearted 
dance-hall  gal;  Evelyn  Keyes,  nice  gal. 

EASY  LIVING  (RKO):  Sharp  expose  of 
pro  football.  Star  Vic  Mature,  with  a  heart 
condition,  goes  on  playing  to  please  selfish 
wife  Liz  Scott.  Lucille  Ball  and  Lloyd 
Nolan  understand  his  plight. 

GALLANT  JOURNEY  (Columbia) :  As  a 
little-known  pioneer  of  aviation,  Glenn  Ford 
does  glider  flights  in  the  1880's,  beating 
the  Wright  brothers  into  the  air.  Janet 
Blair's  his  loyal  wife. 

HUDSON'S  BAY  (20th):  Lusty  story  of 
Canada's  early  days,  with  Paul  Muni  as 
a  Frenchman  who  made  friends  with  In- 
dians, persuaded  England  to  open  up  the 
new  country.  The  expert  cast  includes  Vin- 
cent Price. 

IN  THIS  OUR  LIFE  (Warners)  :  Bette 
Davis  plays  a  venomous  Southern  girl,  with 
Olivia  de  Havilland  as  her  civilized  sister. 
Explosive  drama  springs  from  manslaughter 
Bette  commits. 

KISS  OF  DEATH  (20th):  Rough,  top- 
flight thriller,  famous  for  Richard  Wid- 
mark's  debut  role,  a  giggling  gunman.  As 
a  convict,  Vic  Mature  turns  stool  pigeon 
for  the  sake  of  wife  Coleen  Gray. 

LADY  TAKES  A  CHANCE,  A  (RKO) : 
A  charmer  of  a  comedy.  On  a  Western  va- 
cation, Jean  Arthur  tries  her  best  to  lasso 
rodeo  cowboy  John  Wayne.  Fine  character 
job  by  some  guy  named  Phil  Silvers,  as 
the  good-time  conductor  of  a  bus  tour. 

LIFEBOAT  (20th):  Tensely,  Alfred 
Hitchcock  close-ups  survivors  of  a  wartime 
shipwreck,  including  a  career  woman  (Tal- 
lulah   Bankhead),  a  sailor    (the  late  John 


Hodiak),  a  Nazi  submarine  captain  (Walter 
Slezak). 

MURDER,  MY  SWEET  (RKO):  Fast, 
tough  whodunit  casts  Dick  Powell  as  pri- 
vate eye  seeking  a  stolen  necklace  and  a 
missing  night-club  doll.  With  Claire  Trevor, 
Mike  Mazurki. 

ONE  FOOT  IN  HEAVEN  (Warners): 
Warmth,  wit  and  inspirational  qualities 
combine  as  minister  Fredric  March  tries  to 
do  his  duties,  raise  his  family  (with  wife 
Martha  Scott)    and  make  ends  meet. 

OUR  WIFE  (Columbia):  Frothy  farce 
with  highly  engaging  players.  Musician 
Melvyn  Douglas  gets  out  of  an  alcoholic 
fog  to  find  romance  with  scientist  Ruth 
Hussey.  Ex-wife  Ellen  Drew  interferes. 

PENNY  SERENADE  (Columbia):  Hon- 
estly sentimental,  beautifully  done  story  of 
a  marriage.  To  a  series  of  "our  songs," 
Cary  Grant  and  Irene  Dunne  court,  marry, 
adopt  and  lose  a  child,  courageously  face 
the  future  together. 

RACHEL  AND   THE  STRANGER 

( RKO )  :  Entrancing  tale  of  frontier  days. 
Farmer  William  Holden,  widowed,  buys 
bond-slave  Loretta  Young  as  his  wife,  moth- 
er to  his  son.  A  ballad-singing  wanderer, 
Robert  Mitchum  helps  solve  family  prob- 
lems that  make  Loretta  unhappy. 

SO  LONG  AT  THE  FAIR  (Eagle  Lion) : 
Fascinating  English  version  of  a  popular 
legend.  At  a  19th  Century  Paris  exposition, 
Jean  Simmons  seeks  a  missing  brother — 
only  to  be  told  that  he  never  existed.  Artist 
Dirk  Bogarde  comes  to  her  rescue. 

SUSPICION  (RKO):  Alfred  Hitchcock 
is  in  top  form  with  this  suave  tale  of  sus- 
pense. An  innocent  bride,  Joan  Fontaine 
suspects  that  debonair  Cary  Grant  has  done 
murder — and  plans  to  kill  her. 

TALES  OF  HOFFMAN  (Lopert) :  A 
lavish  feast  for  ballet  and  opera  fans.  Rob- 
ert Rounseville  recalls  the  three  loves  he 
had  as  a  student — exquisite  Moira  Shearer 
foremost  among  them. 

'TIL  WE  MEET  AGAIN  (Warners): 
Haunted  romance,  with  Merle  Oberon  and 
George  Brent  as  doomed  lovers  who  meet 
on  a  trans-Pacific  voyage. 

TONIGHT  AND  EVERY  NIGHT  (Co- 
lumbia) :  Show  business  goes  on  in  blitz- 
torn  London.  Rita  Hayworth  and  Janet 
Blair  are  gallant  show  girls;  Lee  Bowman, 
a  naturally  amorous  flyer;  Marc  Piatt,  dedi- 
cated dancer.  Fine  musical. 

TOO  MANY  GIRLS  (RKO):  Here's 
where  Lucy  and  Desi  first  got  together, 
in  a  gay  college  musical.  Miss  Ball  is 
a  spoiled  heiress;  Mr.  Arnaz,  a  Latin  foot- 
ball hero.  Eddie  Bracken,  Richard  Carlson 
join  the  tuneful  fun. 

YELLOW  CANARY  (RKO):  Terribly 
mysterious  British  mystery,  with  Anna 
Neagle  as  a  supposed  Nazi  sympathizer. 
Navy  man  Richard  Greene  reveals  she's 
really  spying  for  England. 


Mo'd  be/ieue  /n^q 
ever  embdft^ssecf 
by  PihiplesI^^ 


New!  Clearasil  Medication 

STARVES' 
PIMPLES 

SKIN-COLORED  .  .  .  hides  pimples  while  It  works. 

At  last !  Science  discovers  a  new-type  medi- 
cation especially  for  pimples,  tiiat  really 
works.  In  skin  specialists'  tests  on  202 
patients,  9  out  of  every  10  cases  were 
completely  cleared  up  or  definitely  improved 
while  using  clearasil. 

CLEARASIL  WORKS  FAST 
TO  MAKE  PIMPLES  DISAPPEAR 


U^-^r^ 


TT 


1 .  PENETRATES  PtMPlES  .  .  .  kera- 
tolytic  action  softens  and  dissolves 
affected  skin  tissue  .  .  .  permits 
medication  to  penetrate  down  into 
any  infected  area. 

2.  ISOLATES  PIMPLES  .  .  .  antiseptic 
action  of  this  new  type  medication 
stops  growth  of  bacteria  that  can 
cause  and  spread  pimples. 

3.  'STARVES'  PIMPLES  .  .  .  CLEAR- 
asil's  famous  dry-up  action 
'starves'  pimples  because  it  helps 
to  remove  the  oils  that  pimples 
'feed'  on. 

SKIN  CREAMS  CAN  'FEED'  PIMPLES 
CLEARASIL  'STARVES'  THEM 

Oil  in  pores  helps  pimples  grow  and  thrive.  So  oily 
skin  creams  can  actually  'feed'  pimples.  Only  an 
oil-absorbing  medication  .  . .  clearasil,  helps  dry  up 
this  oil,  'starves'  pimples. 

'FLOATS  OUT'  BLACKHEADS 

CLEARASIl's  penetrating  medical  action  softens  and 
loosens  blackheads  from  underneath,  so  they  'float 
out'  with  normal  washing.  So  why  suffer  the  misery 
of  pimples  or  blackheads !  clearasil  is  guaranteed 
to  work  for  you,  as  in  doctors'  tests,  or  money  back. 
Only  69^  at  all  drug  counters  (economy  size  98<0. 


Largest-Selling  Pimple 
Medication  in  America  (including  Canada) 


At  home  in  his  woric.  Bob  Smith 

gives,  music  a  merry  go  'round  on  WOR 


HOIVIE 


LIKE  taking  candy  from  a  baby?  Bob 
Smith,  long  a  favorite  of  the  loUypop 
set  as  Howdy  Doody's  pal,  Buffalo  Bob, 
has  been  reclaimed — and  acclaimed — by 
his  own  generation.  On  The  Boh  Smith 
Show,  heard  weekday  afternoons  from 
two  to  five  on  New  York's  Station  WOR, 
he  plays  records — but  with  a  difference. 
A  rare  contradiction,  an  untemperamental 
virtuoso,  Bob  may  harmonize  a  chorus 
on  a  Patti  Page  recording  or  improvise 
a  vocal  introduction  for  a  Dorsey  instru- 
mental. He's  also  apt  to  join  in  on  piano, 
organ,  accordion,  saxophone,  clarinet, 
trombone,  trumpet,  guitar,  contrabass, 
slide  whistle,  sweet  potato,  washboard, 
frying  pan — or  a  set  of  perfectly  pitched 
bicycle  horns.  Each  day,  there's  a  time- 
out for  nostalgia,  with  music  and  mem- 
ories of  yesteryears.  It's  radio  in  a  relaxed 
mood— and  all  of  it  comes  from  the  studio 
in  Bob's  New  Rochelle  home.  "My  home 
is  your  home,"  Bob  tells  his  listeners — 
and  he  means  it.  .  .  .  Born  in  Buffalo,  Bob 
started  piano  at  the  age  of  five,  was  sing- 
ing with  a  male  trio,  the  Hi-Hatters,  when 
he  was  fifteen.  Coming  to  New  York  in 
1936,  he  starred  in  a  number  of  programs 
for  adults.  He  especially  remembers  one 
that  preceded  a  Tex  and  Jinx  interview 
show.  Bob  would  "plug"  their  guests  and, 
one  day,  he  was  told  that  Dana  Andrews 
was  scheduled  to  appear.  Bob,  who's  seen 
three  movies  in  the  last  ten  years,  ad- 
libbed:  "I  just  saw  Dana  Andrews  out  in 
the  corridor  and  she's  the  most  gorgeous 
girl  I  ever  saw  in  my  life!"  A  flood  of 
mail  informed  Bob  that  Dana  is  a  he- 
man  star.  .  .  .  When  television  appeared 
on  the  scene.  Bob  auditioned  some  ten 
shows  for  the  NBC  network.  Howdy 
Doody  was  among  them.  Having  done 
about  2,100  shows  on  "Howdy"  alone,  Bob 


Bow  and  zither — a  Smith  innovation.  Tuba   is  a   big  thing   in   Bob's   life. 


Records  "take  five"   as  sax  stars 


WHERE   THE    IVIUSI 


IS 


has  probably  put  in  more  hours  before 
the  TV  cameras  than  almost  anyone  else 
in  the  business.  He  still  does  the  show 
on  Saturday  mornings  for  NBC-TV,  but, 
speaking  of  the  days  when  "Howdy"  was 
a  daily  visitor,  Bob  says,  "I'm  glad  I  don't 
have  to  work  that  hard  any  more.  I  love 
radio  and  I  love  being  able  to  work  in  a 
sweatshirt  and  sneakers,  with  a  cigar  in 
my  mouth."  ...  It  took  almost  two  years 
for  Bob  to  recuperate  from  a  heart  attack 
he  suffered  on  Labor  Day,  1954.  The  doc- 
tor's latest  prescription:  "Get  out  on  the 
golf  course  and  get  back  to  work."  It 
was  just  what  the  patient  ordered.  "I 
treat  it  as  a  broken  leg,"  Bob  says  of  his 
heart  attack.  "It  doesn't  mean  I  can't 
break  it  again,  but  once  you've  broken  a 
leg,  you  don't  go  sliding  into  second  base 
any  more."  .  .  .  The  long  recovery  gave 
Bob  a  chance  to  count  his  blessings.  First 
there  is  his  wife  Mildred,  a  classmate  of 
Bob's  through  the  eighth  grade  in  BuflEalo. 
There  are  their  three  sons:  Robin,  14, 
Ronnie,  13,  and  Chris,  two.  There's  the 
gracious  New  Rochelle  home,  with  its 
studio-in-the-basement  that  means  Bob 
can  have  more  time  with  his  family.  Like 
Bob  at  their  age,  Robin  and  Ronnie  both 
prefer  box-scores  to  musical  scores.  Mil- 
dred likes  to  tell  of  the  time  Ronnie  was 
nine  and  she  visited  him  at  his  day  camp. 
All  the  boys  were  marching,  and  each 
carried  a  blanket.  All,  that  is,  but  Ronnie. 
The  boy  behind  him  carried  two.  When 
Mildred  asked  him  about  it,  Ronnie  told 
her,  "He's  carrying  mine,  because  I'm 
famous."  Mildred  began  to  admonish  him 
about  trading  on  his  father's  name,  when 
Ronnie  interrupted.  "He  doesn't  even 
know  who  my  father  is,"  he  said.  "I'm 
famous  myself.  I  hit  three  home-runs 
today!"  Fame  runs  in  the  Smith  family. 


You  name  It — and  Banjo  Bob  con  play  it. 


Mr.  and  Mrs.  Smith  wave  their  sons  off  on  a  cycling  expedition.    But  no 
one  has  to  wave  Bob  off  to  work.    hHe  just  steps  down  to  the  basement. 


The  boys  prefer  baseball  to  Bach — or  boogie.   Off-season,  Robin  toots  a 
horn,  Ronnie's  the  drummer,  as  Bob  and  Mildred  play  guitar  and  piano. 


THE  RECORD  PLAYERS 

This  monthly  page  of  views 
and  interviews  on  music  rotates 
among  Jerry  Warren  of  WINS, 
Al  "Jazzbo"  Collins  of  WRCA, 
Gene  Stuart  of  WAVZ, 
and  Art  Pallan  of  KDKA 


GENE  STUART 


BOBBY  SCOTT 


\i 


±il 


-tine  Woi-d 


A  FEW  WEEKS  AGO,  after  signing  off 
my  show  at  9  A.M.,  with  my  scalp 
intact — the  exception  and  not  the 
rule — I  thought  it  would  be  nice  to  see 
Bobby  Scott  again.  Three  months  had 
elapsed  since  last  I  visited  the  Scott 
abode  and  near-drowned  Bobby  with 
a  spilled  glass  of  water.  Time  heals  all 
wounds,  or  so  the  saying  goes,  and  I 
reasoned  that  when  I  told  him  I  wanted 
to  interview  him  for  TV  Radio  Mirror, 
he  would  accept  the  fact  as  a  peace 
offering.  So,  I  strapped  on  my  skates 
(no  money  for  gas)  and  zoomed  down 
the  highways  to  New  York  City,  barg- 
ing in  on  Bobby  at  noontime.  I  think 
I  startled  him,  for  he  looked  over  his 
shoulder  at  me,  yawned  and  said, 
"Oh  ...  hi,  Gene-o." 

After  explaining  to  him  about  the 
intended  interview,  Bobby  sprawled 
onto  the  couch,  pointed  a  finger  at  me 
and  smiled,  "You're  on,  Mr.  Stuart. 
Go." 

Not  yet  twenty,  this  native  New 
Yorker  is  definite  concerning  his  work, 
his  life,  his  likes  and  dislikes  and  his 
ambitions.  Through  the  media  of  writ- 
ing music,  playing  jazz  piano  and 
singing,  Bobby  intends  eventually  to 
have  recorded  the  serious  music — 
"classical"  to  some — he  has  written 
and  will  continue  to  write.  He's  al- 
ready completed  a  number  of  suites 
and  is  now  working  on  a  musical 
comedy. 

For  the  present,  Bobby,  who  has 
had  several  nibbles  from  Hollywood, 
hopes  for  a  regular  spot  on  a  network 
TV   show,    and   also   to   keep   his   jazz 

T    trio  together  and  working  for  the  com- 

V    ing  year. 

"  On  his  home  hi-fi  set,  you  can  hear 
anything  from  "Appalachia"  by  Delius 
and    "Third    Piano    Concerto    for    Or- 

10 


By  GENE  STUART 
WAVZ,  New  Haven 


chestra  and  Piano"  by  Bartok  to  his 
favorites  in  other  forms  of  music.  Ma- 
halia  Jackson,  Ella  Fitzgerald,  Frank 
Sinatra  and  Ray  Charles  rank  as  his 
favorite  singers,  while  Bud  Powell, 
Herman  Chittison,  Billy  Taylor,  Dave 
McKenna  and  "the  master"  Art  Tatum 
are  his  favorite  pianists.  Musing  over 
his  own  piano  playing,  Bobby  says,  "I 
find  that  playing  jazz  piano  is  great 
kicks  for  me,  but  even  more  important, 
it  acts  as  a  storehouse  of  improvisation 
that  I'll  use  in  my  writing  of  serious 
music." 

Bobby  has  worked  with  Gene  Krupa, 
Tony  Scott,  his  own  group  and  many 
others  while  building  his  own  distinc- 
tive piano  style.  More  recently,  he  has 
played  and  sung  on  radio  and  TV 
shows  and  in  clubs  throughout  the 
country  and  has  recorded  such  hits 
for  ABC-Paramount  as  "Chain  Gang" 
and  "There  I've  Said  It  Again." 

"The  reason  for  my  singing  is  two- 
fold; to  make  some  money  and  to  be 
able  to  help  further  the  listener's  ap- 
preciation of  music  by  adding  some- 
thing new  musically  and  technically 
with  each  recording." 

When  I  asked  him  his  likes  and  dis- 
likes, he  smiled:  "I  like  baked  maca- 
roni, Sherwood  Anderson  books,  Phil 
Silvers'  TV  shows,  Tony  Bennett's 
warm  personality  and  great  character 
and  Stella,  my  cat.  Oh,  yeah,"  he  added 
with  a  wider  grin,  "don't  forget  my 
wife  Betty.  She's  in  a  special  category." 

Bobby  dislikes  people  who  are  phon- 
ies and  who  are  unthinking.  "I  hate 
to  see  someone  with  native  intelligence 
goof  his  life  away  by  being  lazy  or  in- 
decisive. Of  course,  I  hate  the  evils 
of  this  business,  but  I  can't  complain. 
I  have  my  health,  a  great  wife,  my  own 
apartment,  a  hi-fi  set  with  my  favorite 


i 


records  and  a  chance  to  work  and  make 
money.  What  more  could  a  guy  ask 
for?" 

Then  Bobby  served  me  a  cup  of 
coffee,  backed  away  quickly  and 
laughed,  "Don't  spill  this  on  me,  'cause 
I'm  meeting  Betty  for  lunch  and  it's 
too  late  to  change  clothes." 

With  that,  he  helped  me  strap  on  my 
skates  and  wished  me  Godspeed  on 
the  highways  back  to  New  Haven. 
Quite  a  fella,  "Young  Blood"  Bobby 
Scott.  4 

LIGHTLY  IN  THE  GROOVE:  * 

Deejaying  can  lead  to  big  business. 
WATV's  Paul  Brenner  manages  talent, 
WABC's  Martin  Block  has  a  publishing 
company,  Grady  and  Hurst  of  Wil- 
mington's WDEL-TV  own  record 
shops,  and  Gene  Klavan  of  WNEW's 
Klavan  And  Finch  Show  owns  a  hatch- 
ery for  barracuda,  man-eating  fish 
which  he  raises  to  send  to  competing 
morning  deejays.  .  .  .  Columbia  Rec- 
ords' Mitch  Miller  relayed  to  WMGM's 
Dean  Hunter  a  simple  formula  for  be- 
coming a  successful  songwriter:  Blar- 
ney, guts  and  talent.  Hit  tunesmith 
Harry  Warren  answered  a  knock  on  his 
door  some  fifteen  years  ago.  A  young 
boy  said,  "I'm  Johnny  Mercer.  I  have 
some  lyrics  I'd  like  you  to  look  at." 
Result:  "Chattanooga  Choo-Choo"— 
and  a  famous  writing  team.  .  .  .  John 
Milton  Williams,  who  is  perhaps  our 
most  photographed  male  model,  had  ■ 
hoped  to  get  his  new  singing  discov-  | 
ery  Joannie  Dunn  into  an  LP  jacket. 
So  far,  he's  only  gotten  himself  on  the 
cover  of  one — ^he's  the  "swinging  lover" 
in  Charles  Varon's  photo  on  the  new 
Frank  Sinatra  album,  "Adventures  of 
the  Heart." 

— Jerry  Warren 


Which  is  your  hair  problem  ? 


Hair  dull... no  shine? 

Even  the  dullest  hair  really  sparkles 
with  new  suave!  Try  it.  See  your  hair 
glitter  with  twinkling  highlights.  And 
oh  how  silky,  how  soft  and  lovely! 
SUAVE  gives  hair  that  "healthy-looking 
glow,"  not  oily  shine  .  .  .  because  it's 
greaseless. 


Hair  too  dry? 

The  instant  you  apply  suave  Hair- 
dressing  with  its  amazing  greaseless 
lanolin,  dryness  is  gone!  suave  puts 
life  back  into  your  hair.  Makes  it  silky 
soft;  bursting  with  highlights,  eager  to 
wave  . . .  and  so  manageable,  so  exciting 
to  feel! 

Hair  abused... brittle? 

After  home  permanents  or  too  much 
sun,  your  hair  will  drink  up  suave. 
Apply  liberally  every  day — and  see 
satin-softness,  life  and  sparkle  return. 
You'll  be  amazed  how  pretty,  how 
caressahle  your  hair  can  look! 


Unruly  after  shampoo? 

Never  shampoo  your  hair  without 
putting  back  the  beauty-oils  that  sham- 
pooing takes  out.  Use  suave  every  time 
to  restore  beauty  instantly!  Makes 
hair  silky  .  .  .  manageable,  eager  to 
wave.  Keeps  hair  in  place  without 
oily  film. 


Teen  Tangles? 

Your  hair  does  so  much  for  your  popu- 
larity! Don't  be  a  "tangle  mop."  A 
kiss  of  suave  daily  makes  your  hair 
behave  without  a  struggle.  Keeps  it 
perfect!  Gives  it  that  "sparkly"  look! 


HELENE  CURTIS 

uave 

HAIRDRESSING  &  conditioner 

Contains  amazing  greaseless  lanolin 
594  and$1  (plus  tax) 


Special  Suave  Cieme 


11 


in   His  V 


Man  of  many  voices,  Allen  Swift 

of  WPIX  is  also  a  master  of  many  trades 


Magic's   a    hobby   Allen    pufs   to   TV    use.      Scripts   for 
video  and  Broadway  are  another  "professional"  pastime. 


Allen  and  son   Lewis  are  chess   motes,   as  Vivienne  and 
"Scrabble"  watch.    Below,  Allen's  "Man  With  the  Cane." 


Captain  Allen  is  all  at  sea  in  the  125,000  contest  draw- 
ings of  Popeye.    In  on  average  week,  mail  call  is  2,000. 


IF  THE  VOICE  is  familiar,  it  probably  belongs  to 
Allen  Swift.    Thirtyish  of  age,  reddish-blond  of 
hair,  Allen  has  created  more  than  a  thousand  voices 
for  radio,  TV  and  movies.   This  includes  fifty  voices 
on  Howdy  Doody  and  ninety  percent  of  the  voices 
that  accompany  the  animated  line-drawing  commer- 
cials done  by  UPA.  .  .  .  Often  heard,  Allen  can  also  be 
seen.   He's  Captain  Allen,  a  genial,  white-bearded 
old  salt  who  fills  the  time  between  reels  of  cartoons  on 
Popeye  The  Sailor  Man,  seen  on  New  York's  Station 
WPIX,  weekdays  at  6  P.M.  (Ray  Heatherton  emcees 
the  show  Saturdays  at  5:30  and  Sundays  at  4:30.) 
Allen  treats  the  youngsters  to  feats  of  prestidigitation, 
does  "scribble  scrabble"  drawings,  and  slips  in  painless 
lessons  on  good  behavior.  The  deck  of  the  S.  S.  Popeye 
is  his  stage — which  answers  a  question  that  troubled 
Allen  as  a  boy.  .  .  .  When  his  mimicry  at  parties 
drew  bravos,  Allen  decided  on  a  career  in  show 
business.    But,  for  public  consumption,  he  announced 
he  was  going  to  be  a  painter.   To  Allen  and  his 
parents,  this  seemed  more  substantial.  "I  could  always 
get  a  canvas,"  Allen  says,  "but  where  could  I  find  a 
stage?"  Eventually,  he  found  quite  a  few — as  a  "legit" 
actor  and  a  comedian.  He  was  the  comic  at  a  Catskills 
resort  when  the  wartime  male  shortage  placed  him 
at  a  table  with  eight  beautiful  girls.   He  married  the 
one  named  Vivienne.   Also  a  writer,  songwriter, 
magician  and  mind  reader,  Allen  describes  his  career 
as  "an  uphill  fight  not  to  be  typed."  .  .  .  Nor  has  Allen 
limited  his  painting  to  the  makeup  he  uses  as 
Captain.   He  is  a  leading  exhibitor  at  the  famed  ACA 
gallery.  The  Swifts'  apartment  in  Forest  Hills,  done 
in  "comfortable  modern,"  features  Allen's  impression- 
istic canvasses,  originals  by  leading  contemporaries, 
and  Egyptian  and  Aztec  sculpture.    Son  Lewis,  now 
ten,  inherits  his  dad's  art  and  vocal  talents.   When 
he's  in  school,  so  is  Vivienne.    She's  a  straight-A 
student  at  Mills  College  of  Education  in  New  York. 
.  .  .  "Basically,  I'm  a  creative  guy,"  AUen  describes 
himself.  "If  this  seems  to  be  the  age  of  specialization,  I 
see  no  reason  for  myself  to  specialize."   If  this  be 
talent — and  we  think  it  is — ^AUen  makes  the  most  of  it 


Information  booth 


Reticent  Redskin 

Please  write  something  about  Michael 
Ansara  of  Broken  Arrow. 

E.  G.,  Baltimore,  Md. 

One  of  the  big,  new  topics  of  fan  chatter 
these  days  is  Michael  Ansara,  who  scores 
weekly  as  "Cochise"  on  ABC-TV's  Broken 
Arrow.  Yet  Michael  was  once  a  shy,  re- 
tiring type,  and  acting  was  about  the 
farthest  thing  from  his  mind!  .  .  .  The 
future  Apache  chieftain  was  born  April 
13,  1923,  in  Lowell,  Massachusetts.  Later, 
the  family  moved  to  Los  Angeles,  where 
Michael  gtaduated  from  public  school, 
and  entered  Los  Angeles  City  College. 
Feeling  that  he  lacked  poise,  Michael  took 
part  in  college  dramatics — and  the  acting 
bug  soon  had  a  willing  victim.  Subsequent 
training  at  Pasadena  Playhouse  was  fol- 
lowed by  numerous  little-theater  appear- 
ances in  and  around  Hollywood.  Curiously 
enough,  he  made  his  movie  bow  as  another 
Indian  warrior — Tuscos  in  Warners'  "Only 
the  Valiant."  Many  screen  roles  and  a 
1954  TV  debut  preceded  his  current  as- 
signment as  "Cochise."  .  .  .  History  in- 
terests the  tall,  dark  bachelor,  and  he's 
not  adverse  to  sessions  of  fishing,  hunting 
or  golf,  either. 

Merry  Mousketeer 

Would  you  please  publish  some  informa- 
tion about  Doreen  Tracey? 

J.  M.,  Omaha,  Neb. 

Out  in  Lotus  Land,  a  certain  Hollywood 
theater  manager  is  a  celebrity  named  Sid 
Tracey.  Sid  and  his  wife,  Bessie  Hay,  are 
a  retired  dance  team,  but  his  current 
laurels  have  little  to  do  with  dancing.  Sid 
happens  to  be  the  father  of  ABC-TV 
Mousketeer  Doreen  Tracey  and,  as  such, 
is  constantly  besieged  by  a  never-ending 


Michael  Ansara 


line  of  ambitious  juveniles  all  clamoring  to 
know  "how  Doreen  did  it."  The  pert,  viva- 
cious little  star,  along  with  her  Mickey 
Mouse  Club  cohorts,  is  among  the  most 
popular  personalities  in  TV  today.  .  .  . 
With  bombs  falling,  and  war  raging  all 
around  her,  Doreen  was  born  to  her  Amer- 
ican show-parents  in  London,  England,  on 
April  13,  1943.  The  family  settled  in  Cali- 
fornia in  1945,  and  though  Sid  gave  Doreen 
her  first  dancing  lessons,  she  eventually 
enrolled  for  formal  training  in  tap  and  toe 
dancing,  ballet  and  singing.  Exactly  two 
years  ago,  her  studio  sent  her  to  audition 
for  Walt  Disney,  and  the  result  has  been 
happy  viewing  for  thousands  of  fans  across 
the  country.  .  .  .  Soft  brown  hair  set  in  a 
curly  fringe  of  bangs,  and  a  large  and  ex- 
pressive pair  of  hazel-colored  eyes,  are 
Doreen's  trademarks.  The  petite  charmer 
stands  four  feet  nine  inches,  weighs  eighty- 
seven  pounds,  and  is  rated  an  excellent 
eighth-grade  student  at  Hollywood's 
Blessed  Sacrament  parochial  school.  She 
loves  to  swim  and  ride  horseback,  is  fond 
of  pets — especially  a  Siamese  cat  named 
"Samson" — plus  a  bevy  of  hamsters. 

Calling  All  Fans 

The  following  fan  clubs  invite  new 
members.  If  you  are  interested,  write  to 
address  given — not  to  TV  Radio  Mirror. 

Rosemary  Prinz  Fan  Club,  c/o  Sandra 
Becker,  1815  37th  Ave.,  Jackson  Heights, 
L.  I.,  New  York 

Mousketeers  Fan  Club,  c/o  Flapdoodle 
Club,  701  N.  30th  St.,  Omaha  2,  Neb. 

Clint  Walker  Fan  Club,  c/o  Frances 
Greene,  64  Florence  St.,  Newington,  Conn. 

Newsman  of  Note 

Would  you  please  give  me  some  informa- 
tion about  NBC-TV  commentator  David 
Brinkley? 

B.  K.,  Atlantic  City,  N.  J. 

While  the  Supreme  Court  pondered  a 
decision  in  the  Rosenberg  case,  NBC  news- 
man David  Brinkley  stood  by  with  mobile 
cameras.  Seconds  after  the  Chief  Justice 
announced  the  opinion,  Dave  passed  it  on 
to  a  nation  of  waiting  viewers.  "Nice  going, 
Dave,"  commented  a  friendly  rival.  "You 
beat  the  world."  It  was  nothing  extraordi- 
nary. Dave  Brinkley,  who  teams  with  Chet 
Huntley  each  weekday  evening  at  7:45  for 
NBC  News  Caravan,  has  been  a  world- 
beater  ever  since  he  first  entered  the  news 
field.  .  .  .  Born  July  10,  1920,  in  Wilming- 
ton, North  Carolina,  Dave  attended  both 
North  Carolina  and  Vanderbilt  Universi- 
ties, and  got  his  first  news  job  with  the 
United  Press  in  Nashville.  Transfers  to 
Montgomery,  Atlanta,  and  Washington, 
D.  C,  plus  time  out  for  the  Army,  preceded 
his  1943  appointment  as  radio-TV  news- 
caster with  NBC  in  Washington.  There,  he 
was  responsible  for  many  NBC  exclusives, 
including  a  filmed  tour  of  the  Russian  Em- 
bassy. With  everyone  taking  it  for  granted 
that  the  Reds  would  never  open  the  doors 
to  reporters  and  cameramen,  Dave  simply 


David  Brinkley 


asked  for  permission — and  got  it.  He  cites 
coverage  of  the  Army-McCarthy  hearings 
as  "one  of  the  roughest,"  but  only  once  has 
he  received  negative  reaction — and  that, 
after  the  1953  Inaugural  Parade.  Dave  be- 
came intrigued  by  the  daily  diet  of  an  ele- 
phant named  "Miss  Burma."  It  specified 
that  she  receive  a  quart  of  whiskey  in  a 
bucket  of  hot  water.  While  the  ponderous 
pachyderm  lurched  up  Pennsylvania  Ave- 
nue, Dave  commented  fully  on  her  unusual 
menu,  and  failed  to  note  the  passage  of  a 
smart-stepping  Jackson,  Michigan  group 
known  as  the  American  Legion  Zouaves.  In 
the  Jackson  paper  the  next  day,  the  title 
told  all:  "We  Wuz  Robbed."  .  .  .  Soft- 
spoken  and  quietly  self-assured,  Dave  drew 
on  his  extensive  Capitol  background  to 
make  quick  spot-identifications  at  last  sum- 
mer's political  conventions,  received  na- 
tionally favorable  comment.  But  at  the 
previous  convention  in  1952,  the  Brinkley 
aplomb  threatened  to  vanish.  That  was 
when  the  NBC  staff  slipped  in  some  films, 
flown  from  Washington  to  Chicago,  of 
Dave's  new-born  child — and  Brinkley,  Sr., 
found  himself  looking  at  his  second  son 
for  the  first  time.  Somewhat  reluctantly, 
after  the  film  was  over,  Dave  turned  back 
to  politics.  .  .  .  Three 'young  sons — Alan,  7, 
Joel,  4,  and  John,  who's  now  two — are  the 
chief  pride  of  Dave  and  wife  Ann.  On 
Sundays,  Dave  can  be  seen  as  Washington 
correspondent  on  NBC's  Outlook  show,  to 
which  he  commutes  from  the  Brinkley 
manse  in  Montgomery  County,  Maryland. 


FOR  YOUR  INFORMATION— If  there's 
something  you  want  to  know  about  radio 
and  television,  write  to  Information  Booth, 
TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East  42nd  St.,  New 
York  17,  N.  Y.    We'll  answer,  if  we  can, 
provided  your  question  is  of  general  inter- 
est. Answers  will  appear  in  this  column —    T 
but   be   sure   to   attach   this   box   to   your    * 
letter,  and  specify  whether  your  question    " 
concerns  radio  or  TV. 


13 


WHAT'S  NEW  ON  THE  WEST 


By  BUD  GOODE 


Dancing  your  way  on  a  new  show  are  Marge 
and  Gower  Channpion.  Here,  son's  first  photo. 


Latest  singer  to  turn   actor   is    Nat  Cole.     He'll    play  a    Foreign    Legion 
T    villain  in  "China  Gate."  But,  to  Carol  and  Natalie,  he'll  always  be  "King." 

V 

For  What's  New  On  The  East  Coasts  See  Page  4 


Guitarist  Buddy  Merrill,  of  Lawrence  Wellc's  shows,  is  at  the  marryin 
age.  When  he  turns  twenty-one,  he'll  wed  high-school  sweetheart,  Faye. 


Buried  Treasure:  It's  been  rumored  that 
ABC-TV  Cheyenne's  giant  of  a  man,  Clint 
Walker — six-feet-six,  230  poiinds  of  weU- 
distributed  bone  and  sinew — buries  the 
family  garbage  in  his  backyard.  Why? 
"Organic  fertilizer,"  he  explains.  Health 
addict  Clint  doesn't  believe  in  chemical 
fertilizers.  The  fruits  and  vegetables  in  his 
garden  have  to  be  organically  grown. 
Scientifically,  not  a  bad  idea;  but  what  do 
you  do,  Clint,  when  your  radishes  come  up 
coffee  flavored? 

The  Heart  of  Hollywood:  Hugh  O'Brian 
(ABC-TVs  Wyatt  Earp)  never  does  com- 
mercials, but  agreed  to  do  one  for  Gleem 
Toothpaste  with  the  understanding  that 
his  $1,000  fee  go  to  the  treasxiry  of  Holly- 
wood's young  performers  group,  The  Thal- 
ians.  Hugh  is  past  president  of  the  organi- 
zation devoted  to  the  problems  of  children's 
mental  health.  The  Thalians'  creed:  "If  you 
arfe  of  a  mind  to  enjoy  today — ^help  a  child's 

mind  enjoy  tomorrow."  Congrats,  kids 

And  Groucho  Marx's  wife,  Eden,  weekly 
contributes  her  time  to  the  Los  Angeles 
County  Hospital  working  in  the  handi- 
crafts ward,  helping  to  rehabiUtate  psy- 
chiatric patients.  "I  don't  mind,"  kids 
Groucho,  "but  I  try  to  point  out  there's  a 
great  deal  of  that  kind  of  work  to  be  done 
around  our  house,  too." 

Coals  and  Guys:  George  Gobel  confides 
his  lifetime  ambition  was  to  become  a  big 
league  ballplayer.  Main  objection  to  his 
plans  was  the  observation  that  a  ballplay- 
er's career  lasted  only  ten  years.  "So," 
says  George,  "I  became  a  television  comic 
— where  they  tell  you  it's  a  miracle  if  you 
last  three  years!"  .  .  .  Looks  like  this  year's 
television  awards  are  going  to  the  dogs: 
CBS-TV's  Lassie  romped  off  with  "Best 
Children's  Show  of  the  Year"  from  Phila- 
delphia's Poor  Richard  Club.  .  .  .  Art  Link- 


14 


COAST 


Lovebirds  May  Wynn  and  Jack  Kelly 
have  a  date  with  a  long-legged  bird. 


letter  was  voted  the  school's  most  valu- 
able basketball  player  while  attending  San 
Diego  State  College,  where  he  garnered 
twelve  letters.  Phil  Silvers  says  he  re- 
ceived twenty-four  letters  while  in  col- 
lege— all  from  his  mother.  .  .  .  Jack  Cros- 
by, an  artist  at  CBS-Television  City,  was 
being  groomed  for  a  part  on  the  Phil  Sil- 
vers show,  but  was  beaten  out  for  the  role 
by  another  Crosby — his  Uncle  Bing.  .  .  . 
After  the  death  of  her  daughter,  Jan  Clay- 
ton and  her  husband,  Bob  Lerner,  and 
their  family  of  three,  are  moving  to 
Cuernavaca,  Mexico,  for  a  change  of 
scenery.  Jan  will  conunute  from  Mexico 
to  Holljrwood.  .  .  .  Now  it's  official:  Buddy 
Merrill,  guitarist  on  ABC-TV's  Lawrence 
Welk  Show,  will  marry  his  high-school 
sweetheart,  Faye  Philpott,  sometime  after 
his  twenty-first  birthday,  July  16.  .  .  . 
Although  NBC -TV's  Noah's  Ark  may  go  oflE 
the  air  soon,  co-star  May  Wynn  has  her 
own  production  in  preparation.  She  and 
husband  Jack  Kelly,  married  in  Novem- 
ber, are  expecting.  ...  So  are  Gordon 
MacRae  and  wife  Sheila.  Sheila's  recent 
role  with  Gordon  on  Lux  Video  Theater 
was  her  last  professional  appearance  be- 
fore baby  number  five  arrives.  .  .  .  The 
twenty-six  popular  members  of  the  ABC- 
TV  Lawrence  Welk  band  received  over  300 
pounds  of  candy  from  loyal  fans  for  Val- 
entine's Day.  Oh,  what  a  tummy  ache! 

Casting :  Marge  and  Gower  Champion,  those 
dancing  parents  of  baby  Gregg,  will  debut 
a  new  CBS-TV  series  on  Simday  evening, 
March  31.  It  replaces  Ann  So  them.  .  .  . 
NBC-TV's  Nat  "King"  Cole,  famous  for 
his  renditions  of  ballads,  "Nature  Boy," 
"Mona  Lisa,"  and  "Too  Yoimg,"  has  done 
an  about-face.  In  20th  Century-Fox's 
"China  Gate,"  he  plays  a  French  Foreign 
Legion  villain.  It's  tough  to  picture  Nat, 
the  guy  who  made  (Continued  on  page  71) 


eiv  Patterns 
for  You 


4609 — New  Printed  Pattern — easiest  to 
sew!  Just  two  main  pattern  parts  plus  fac- 
ings. Misses'  Sizes  10-18.  Size  16  tak^s  3 
yards  39-inch  fabric.  State  size.  35^ 

4634 — Wrap-on  for  daughter  is  jiffy  sew- 
ing for  you,  mother,  with  our  new  Printed 
Pattern.  It  has  few  pattern  parts,  and  opens 
out  to  iron.  Child's  Sizes  2,  4,  6,  8,  10. 
Size  6  takes  2ys  yards  35-inch  fabric. 
State  size.  35^ 

4606 — Perfect  twosome — sundress  and  bo- 
lero designed  for  the  shorter,  fuller  figure. 
Easy  to  sew  with  our  new  Printed  Pattern. 
Half  Sizes  141/2-241/2.  Size  I6I/2  takes  3% 
yards  35-inch  for  dress;  I'/g  yards  for 
bolero.  State  size.  35^ 


Send  thirty-five  cents  (in  coin)  for  each  pattern  to: 
TV  Radio  Mirror,  Pattern  Department,  P.O.  Box  137, 
Old  Chelsea  Station,  New  York  11,  New  York.  Add 
five  cents  for  each  pattern  for  first-class  mailing.  Be 
sure  to  state  pattern  number  and  size  when  ordering. 


15 


With  a  frequency  of 

such  talent  as  Mac  McGarry, 

WBUF  rates  ultra-high 


TEMPEr?ATURE  HUM! 


Emcee,  newscaster  and  all-around  talent,   Mac's  at  ease  as 
he  talks  Fahrenheits  or,  below,  fisticuffs  with  two  "bantams." 


From  lightweight  clowning  to  heavyweight  topics, 
Mac  is  always  interesting.  Here,  he  talks  shop  with 
Joy  Wilson,   "Weather  Girl"  on  an  earlier  show. 


16 


WHILE  many  of  the  know-it-alls  looked  glum  when 
the  subject  of  ultra -high-frequency  television 
channels  came  up,  the  brass  at  the  NBC  network  grinned 
knowingly.  In  Buffalo,  they  were  busy  changing  the 
skyline  with  a  $1,500,000  Color  Television  Center — and 
a  tower  that  is  four  times  higher  than  Niagara  Falls. 
The  structures  were  for  NBC's  new  "leadership  station" 
in  the  Niagara  Frontier  Area,  Station  WBUF.  Construc- 
tion was  only  half  the  battle.  Next,  the  network  had  to 
break  down  the  resistance  of  people  to  buying  UHF 
converters.  They  did  it  with  fireworks,  a  bicycle  rodeo, 
a  "Miss  Channel  17"  contest — and  an  antique  fire-engine 
trademark.  It  was  hoopla  on  a  grand  scale,  but  the  most 
powerful  persuader  was  the  ultra-high  frequency  of  tal- 
ent being  offered  to  WBUF.  .  .  .  Typical  is  Mac  McGarry, 
a  genial  guy  with  a  genius  for  putting  people  at  ease. 
Mac  is  casual,  informal,  relaxed.  Weekdays  at  2: 15  P.M., 
he  captures  the  pulse-beat  of  Buffalo  in  Memo  From 
McGarry.  The  highlight  of  the  show  is  an  interview, 
and  Mac  prefers  his  guests  with  an  offbeat  occupation — 
a  night-club  chorine  or  a  town  dog-catcher.  If  the  guest 
is  a  celebrity,  Mac  is  not  unduly  impressed.  Coming  to 
Buffalo  last  April  from  WRC  and  WRC-TV  in  Wash- 
ington, D.  C,  Mac  has  introduced  Presidents  Truman 


and  Eisenhower  on  the  air  from  the  White  House  and 
has  greeted  such  Washington  Airport  arrivals  as  General 
MacArthur  and  the  then-Princess  Elizabeth.  Other  ex- 
periences include  commentating  on  Three  Star  Final, 
announcing  on  Meet  The  Press  and  American  Forum, 
and  deejaying.  .  .  .  Weekday  evenings,  Mac  does  a  news- 
cast at  6: 50,  and  is  on  camera  with  Weather  Log  at  11: 10. 
Saturday  at  7  P.M.,  he  emcees  Bantam  Bouts,  a  half- 
hour  during  which  youngsters  display  the  zeal  if  not 
always  the  finesse  of  champions.  "Their  greatest  danger," 
Mac  grins,  "is  being  flattened  by  the  wind  from  a  wild 
swing."  .  .  .  Mac  was  born  Maurice  J.  McGarry  in 
Atlanta,  Georgia,  of  Scottish-Irish  descent.  The  family 
moved  to  New  York  when  Mac  was  four.  An  appropriate 
number  of  years  later,  while  attending  Fordham  Uni- 
versity, Mac  became  a  deejay  on  WFUV-FM,  one  of  the 
earliest  college  radio  stations.  Sheepskin  in  hand,  he 
went  to  WBEC  in  Pittsfield,  Massachusetts,  in  1947,  as  an 
announcer.  He  was  program  director  when  he  left  three 
years  later.  .  .  .  Mac  lives  with  his  parents  in  Buffalo, 
where  his  father,  Maurice  S.,  is  a  land  and  tax  agent 
for  the  New  York  Central  Railroad.  A  TV  star,  Mac's 
also  a  fan — and  a  golfing  enthusiast.  His  winning  talent 
is  par  for  the  course  at  the  WBUF  "leadership  station." 


A  Memge 
for  Easter 


Dr.  Billy  Graham  at  his  desk. 


The  Lord  is  my  light  and  my 
salvation;  whom  shall  I  fear? 
the  Lord  is  the  strength  of 
my  life;  of  whom  shall  I  be 
afraid?  .  .  .  My  flesh  and  my 
heart  faileth:  but  God  is 
the  strength  of  my  heart, 
and  my  portion  for  ever. 


DR.  Billy  Graham  has  se- 
lected this  Bible  passage  as 
an  important  message  for  this 
holy  season.  This  American 
evangelist,  who  has  fired  men 
throughout  the  world  with  re- 
newed fervor  for  the  Word  of 
God,  believes  that  we  cannot 
have  a  better,  more  peaceful 
world  until  we  have  better  men. 
If  all  men  and  women  could 
somehow  solve  their  own  prob- 
lems, find  personal  peace  instead 
of  personal  frustration,  the  wars 
and  famines  and  hatreds  and 
uglinesses  of  the  world  would 
melt  away.  Perhaps  if  we — men 
and  women  the  whole  world 
over — say  together  this  com- 
forting text  Dr.  Graham  has 
chosen,  we  will  be  better  peo- 
ple, and  so  make  a  better  world 
filled  with  His  peace. 


Publisher 


PERFECT  FORM 


The  newest  bra  fashions 
cost  less  than  you  think 
your  favorite 
variety  store 


Style    V    -V    '-    .     -     *    // 
#489      V^aX.      —^  .^ 


The  Bra  you  can  wear    /|v 
6  different  ways 

Adds  exciting  glamour  to  your  figure 
and  to  all  your  smart  fashions  . . .  from 
casual  sports  wear  to  your  formal  eve- 
ning wear  . . .  you  can  wear  it  6  different 
ways  because  the  shoulder  straps  can  be 
moved  or  removed! 
White  or  Black  Pre- shrunk  cotton  in  AA, 

A  and  B  cups only  $1.49 

Also  in  C  cup  only  $1.69 

The  New  Sweater  Bra  $100 

For  just  that  right  touch  of  extra  full- 
ness and  roundness !  Pre-shaped  cup  in 
Air  Foam  so  that  only  you  know  the 
secret.  Pre-shrunk  white  cotton  broad- 
cloth in  A  A,  A  and  B  cups,  only  $1. 


Look  for  the 


a 


lecf  -/«?'"' 


Label  at 


WOOLWORTH'S,  KRESGE'S,  NEWBERRY'S 
McCRORY'S,  NEISNER'S,  McCLELLAN'S,  ROSE'S 

and  your  other  favorite  variety  store 

or  write  us  for  store  nearest  you. 

PERFECT  BRASSIERE  CO.  INC. 
Harborside  Bldg.,  Jersey  City  2.  N.  J. 


FREE 


„<2tuT:« 


New  16  page  charm 

^,W'-  booklet  full  of  wonder- 

'  ful  ideas  on  beauty 

*  ,,  K         care  and  personality. 

"  )«'         Just  mail  us  tag  from 

any  Perfect  Form  Bra. 


17 


yours  fee 


~rfafli)fa^»»»i.a»..- 


this  new  Kotex  belt  with 

the  self- locking  clasp 

-doesn't"dig  in" 

as  metal  clasps  do, 

yet  won't  ever  break 


You'll  agree,  this  new  Kotex  belt  does  wonders  for 
your  comfort.  The  unbreakable  clasp  flexes  with  the 
body  so  it  can't  "dig  in"  as  metal  clasps  do.  And 
it  holds  the  napkin  firmly  and  securely,  never  lets 
it  slip  or  slide.  The  specially-woven  elastic,  too, 
stays  flat  and  snug.   No  matter  how  much  you 
move  around,  the  edges  won't  curl  or  twist. 


To  get  your  free  Kotex  belt,  send  the  end  tab 
from  any  box  of  Kotex  napkins  with  the 
coupon  below.  We  will  send  you  a  certificate 
that's  as  good  as  cash. 


low's  the  time  to  discover  new  Kotex  nap- 
kins with  Wondersoft  covering  ...  so  gentle  it  won't  rub, 
won't  chafe.  And  the  new  Kotex  napkin  goes  with  the  new 
Kotex  belt  perfectly,  to  complete  your  comfort. 


More  women  choose  Kotex  than  all  other  brands 


K-C 

P.  0.  Box  7565 

Chicago  80,  Illinois 

I  enclose  the  end  tab  from  a  box  of  Kotex 
napkins.  Please  send  me  a  coupon  good  for 
one  free  Kotex  belt  at  my  favorite  store. 


My  namfi  rx 

A  MrpRX 

City 

7,nnp 

RtntP 

Offer 

expires 

May  31, 

1957 

always  near 
your  Heart 


^1 


;-r^,'?^»^^ 


.^ 


^M^ 


\. 


>^ 


^.iiSMf.s^".-  -jsiss^ 


Thanks  to  George  end  Dinah  Montgomery,  Missy  realizes  that  Jody  helps  nnake  them  all  a  real  family. 


Dinah  Shore  loved  her  own  little 
Missy  so  much.   How  could  she  explain 
about  the  new,  adopted  brother — 
and  expect  Missy  to  love  him,  too  ? 
ft  By  MAXINE  ARNOLD 


DINAH  Shore  had  prayed  for  guidance.    For  the 
words,  the  right  words,  to  tell  an  adorable  little 
six-year-old  that  she  was  going  to  have  an  adopted 
brother  or  sister.   And  now  that  hour  had  come. 

Missy  listened  with  her  hazel  eyes  wide  and  thoughtful 
.  .  .  with  her  own  way  of  finding  the  words  .  .  .  and 
sinking  them  home.    "Oh,  Mommy,"  she  said,  her  face 
stricken.    "I  want  you  to  carry  one  next  to  your  heart — " 

"I  would  love  to,  darling,  but  it  hasn't  happened," 
Dinah  explained,  moved  beyond  words.   What,  she 


See  Next 


Page  ^ 


Jody  couldn't  be  closer,  if  Dinah  had  "carried  him  next 
to  her  heart."  And  Missy  knows  that,  the  more  there  ore 
to  love  in  a  family,  the  more  love  there  is  to  go  around! 


Each  has  a  separate  bedroom,  but  the  two  children  share 
one  playroom.  Jody  has  his  own  sturdy  toys,  is  learning 
not  to  touch  more  fragile  treasures  on  Missy's  shelves. 


20 


always  near  your  Heart 


{Continued) 


wondered,  did  you  say  at  a  moment  like  this? 

Missy  had  been  told  many  times  just  how  loved  she 
was.   How  her  mother  had  carried  her  for  months 
so  close  to  her  heart  .  .  .  how  close,  Missy  could 
never  know,  as  no  child  can  ever  know.   From  the 
moment  they  knew  Melissa  Ann  was  coming, 
her  parents'  every  thought  revolved  around  her.   Her 
father  spent  long  hours  at  night,  after  getting  in 
from  the  studio,  making  Missy's  maplewood  cradle. 
Carving  little  animals  lovingly  on  the  side  of  the 
cradle.   Elk,  rabbits  and  buffalo.   So  Missy  would  have 
her  own  animal  kingdom  ever  protectively  near. 

One  night,  Dinah  had  a  dream  and  awakened 
crying.  There  was  a  fire — and  there  was  only  one  way 
out  of  the  bedroom— down  the  front  stairs.  .  .  . 
"George!"  said  Dinah,  sitting  straight  up  in  bed.   "We 
couldn't  get  down.    There's  just  one  way  out  of 
here.    If  we  had  a  fire — " 

"What  fire?"  her  husband  said  drowsUy. 

"Well — we  could  have  one,"  she  said. 

The  next  morning,  Dinah  awakened  to  hear  her 
husband  hammering  away.    George  was  cutting 
another  door  out  of  their  bedl'oom,  a  door  leading  to 
a  back  stairs.  .  .  . 

And  then  there  was  the  morning  Missy  came! 

"When  I  first  saw  her,"  Dinah  was  remembering 
now,  "I  cried.   I  kept  my  face  covered  when  I 
looked  at  her,  I  was  so  afraid  I  might  have  a  germ  of 
some  kind.   I  didn't  know  babies  are  less  likely 
to  contract  disease  then  than  at  any  other  time.   To 
me  she  was  the  most  gorgeous  baby.    I  was  scared  to 
touch  her.    I  thought,  This  exquisite  little  thing — 
mine?  I  couldn't  take  my  (Continued  on  page  62) 


Missy's  found  out  about  family  sharing.  Fun  together, 
yes.  But  "age"  gives  her  privileges  Jody  doesn't  have, 
OS  yet — and  responsibilities  which  she  shoulders  gladly. 


r 

y 

i 


Tribute  to  a  loving  homemoker — and  a  public-spirited  citizen:  This  month, 
Dinah  Is  being  honored  as  "Hollywood  Mother  of  the  Year,"  by  the  Westwood 
Chapter  for  the  City  of  Hope  (free,   nonsectarian   national   medical   center). 


The  Dinah  Shore  Show,  NBC-TV,  Thurs.,  7:30  P.M.  EST,  is  sponsored  by  Chevrolet  Dealers 
of  America.  Dinah  also  stars  on  The  Chevy  Show,  NBC-TV,  Fri.,  March  22,  9  to  10  P.M.  EST. 


21 


Jody  couldn't  be  closer,  if  Dinah  had  "carried  him  next 
to  her  heart."  And  Missy  knows  thot,  the  more  there  ore 
to  love  in  a  family,  the  more  love  there  is  to  go  around! 


Each  has  a  separate  bedroom,  but  the  two  children  share 
one  playroom.  Jody  has  his  own  sturdy  toys,  is  learning 
not  to  touch  more  fragile  treasures  on  Missy's  shelves. 


tt 


always  near  your  Heart 


(Continued) 


wondered,  did  you  say  at  a  moment  like  this? 

Missy  had  been  told  many  times  just  how  loved  she 
was    How  her  mother  had  carried  her  for  months 
so  close  to  her  heart  .  .  .  how  close,  Missy  could 
never  know,  as  no  child  can  ever  know.   From  the 
moment  they  knew  Melissa  Ann  was  coming, 
her  parents'  every  thought  revolved  around  her.  Her 
father  spent  long  hours  at  night,  after  getting  in 
from  the  studio,  making  Missy's  maplewood  cradle. 
Carving  Httle  animals  lovingly  on  the  side  of  the 
cradle.  Elk,  rabbits  and  buffalo.  So  Missy  would  have 

her  own  animal  kingdom  ever  protectively  near 

One  night,  Dinah  had  a  dream  and  awakened 
crying.  There  was  a  fire — and  there  was  only  one  way 
out  of  the  bedroom— doion  the  front  stairs.  .  .  . 
"George!"  said  Dinah,  sitting  straight  up  in  bed.  "We 
couldn't  get  down.   There's  just  one  way  out  of 
here.   If  we  had  a  fire — " 

"What  fire?"  her  husband  said  drowsily. 
"Well — ^we  could  have  one,"  she  said. 
The  next  morning,  Dinah  awakened  to  hear  her 
husband  hammering  away.    George  was  cutting 
another  door  out  of  their  bedroom,  a  door  leading  to 
a  back  stairs.  .  .  . 
And  then  there  was  the  morning  Missy  came! 
"When  I  first  saw  her,"  Dinah  was  remembering 
now,  "I  cried.  I  kept  my  face  covered  when  I 
looked  at  her,  I  was  so  afraid  I  might  have  a  germ  of 
some  kind.  I  didn't  know  babies  are  less  likely 
to  contract  disease  then  than  at  any  other  time.  To 
me  she  was  the  most  gorgeous  baby.   I  was  scared  to 
touch  her.   I  thought,  This  exquisite  little  thing- 
mine?  I  couldn't  take  my  (Continued  on  page  62) 


Missy's  found  out  about  family  sharing.    Fun  together, 
yes.    But  "age"  gives  her  privileges  Jody  doesn't  hove, 


as  yet— and  responsibilities  which  she  shoulders  gladly 


Wy^ 


Hi 


••^>»^r 


:rN 


^ 


:milf 


Tribute  to  a  loving  homemoker-and  a  public-spirited  citizen:  This  month 
D  nah  is  being  honored  as  "Hollywood  Mother  of  the  Year,  by  the  Westwood 
Ch     ter  for  the  City  of  Hope  (free,   nonsectanan   national   medical   center). 

T,        vorTV  Thurs    7-30  P.M.  EST,  is  sponsored  by  Chevrolet  Dealers 

l(l^:^oJmJ'°s:\ZTne  Cke^  SHou,.  NBC-TV.  Fri.,  March  22.  9  ,o  10  P.M.  EST. 


21 


CINCINNATI'S 


Perkins 


Cincinnati:  Miss  Payne  views  the  city  of  her  birth 
from  atop  the  Terrace  Hilt9n  Hotel.  Below,  in  1919, 
Virginia  with  her  parents,  Dr.  and  Mrs.  John  Lewis 
Payne,  her  younger  sister  Adele,  and  brother  John. 


Rushville  Center:  Ma  Perkins  and  her  beloved  town  were  born  in 
1933,  at  Cincinnati's  Station  WLW.  Virginia  (below,  right)  was 
Ma  and  Charles  Egelston  (center)  was  Shuffle  from  the  beginning — 
he  hails  from  Covington,  Kentucky,  on  the  other  side  of  the  Ohio. 


.  f^Hl  '^iwi^SiidH 

k.'?' 

*-■    <  ' 

u 

M  ^^^^  vi^^HHHM|S| 

W/ 

■^^M 

1 

k 

.m& 

'fSJ^HI 

f^i\    J 

Exclusive!   The  first  revealing 
story  of  talented  Virginia  Payne — 
and  her  two  wonderful  home  towns 


Reunion  in  Chicago,  1939:  Virginia  with  one 
of  her  dramatic  teachers,  Mrs.  Patia  Power — 
whose  son  Tyrone  had  been  Virginia's  classmate 
back  at  Schuster-Martin  School  in  Cincinnati. 


By  FRANCES  KISH 


UNLIKE  MOST  PEOPLE,  Virginia  Payne  can 
claim  two  home  towns,  and  both  of  them 
are  dear  to  her.  One  is  Cincinnati,  Ohio; 
the  other  is  Rushville  Center.  The  latter  really 
grew  out  of  the  former,  because  it  was  on 
Station  WLW,  Cincinnati,  on  August  14,  1933, 
that  a  very  young  Virginia  first  became  the 
elderly  but  young-in-heart  Ma  Perkins  on  the 
now-famous  radio  program  of  that  name.  As 
Ma  Perkins,  a  leading  citizen  of  the  fictional 
town  of  Rushville  Center,  a  mother,  grand- 
mother, and  the  dynamic  owner  of  the 
lumber  yard  founded  by  her  late  husband, 
she  is  adviser  and  comforter  and  problem- 
solver  to  most  of  the  folks  in  the  town. 

Virginia  not  only  created  Ma  Perkins'  voice 
that  day  in  Cincinnati,  she  gave  her  a  person- 
ality of  her  own.  She  could  not  help  but 
endow  her  with  some  of  the  special  Payne 
warmth  and  strength  and  charm.  While  they 
are  years  apart  in  age,  the  two  w6men  share 
many  basic  qualities  and  many  basic  ideals. 

All   through   the   years,   however,   Virginia 


Reunion  in  New  York,  1948 — Ma  Perkins'  fifteenth  anniversary: 
Seated,  Nancy  Douglass,  Kay  Campbell,  "Ma,"  Rita  Ascot,  Judith 
Lockser.  Standing,  Casey  Allen,  Dan  Donaldson,  Murray  Forbes, 
Edwin  V/olfe,    "Shuffle,"   Clark  Whipple,  and   Joseph    Helgesen. 

I 


Reunion  in  Cincinnati — where  it  all  began!  March  15,  1952, 
Virginia  visited  WLW  with  her  mother,  talked  of  old  times  with 
newscaster  Peter  Grant,  "Shuffle  Shober,"  violinist  Virgillio 
Marucci,  and  writer  Jack  Maish — who  wrote  for  her  in  her  teens. 


See  Next  Page- 


Recent  visit  home:  Virginia  Payne 
and  Peter  Grant  connpare  new  mikes 
with  old  ones  they'd  used  at  WLW. 


CINCINNATI'S 


At  the  Schuster-Martin  School  of 
Drama,  she  chats  with  Helen  Rose — 
who  gave  her  "wonderful  training." 


Before  leaving  Schuster-Martin, 
"Ma"  signs  autographs  for  students 
Pat  Minges  (left)  and  Helen  Dooley. 


Ma  Perkins 


(Continued) 


^m       u 

^.      ...                        ^f^gijil^  l/g/gj^ 

■HiHHl '-' 

BmiMmmill^^^%-  ^^S^HHHf 

1 

QHiH 

^3^11                ^9HL                         lilK:'.i-. 

^^^^^^^^k^   J^^K^^^^^^^H^   ^^^^^^Kf 

&.  I 

^BJIi':                                      ^^^^^S^^^H 

VVJ 

^^^^^^^^K<«^^^^B        ij^^^^^l 

i//1^ 

i  {          ^  \   ^ 

^Ht.  <                       ^^^^i^^^^^H^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^H 

i       .  f 

L  -I* 

Family  reunion  at 

'866" — John  Louis,  7,  Margaret  Anne,  9,  and  their 

mother,  Mrs.  John 

Payne;  sister  Adele  Hollem,  Virginia,  and  brother. 

Dr.  John  H.  Payne 

;  their  mother,  and  neighbor  Ted  Learn.   (Rightl  A 

fine  pianist,  Virginia  plays  for  her  nephew,   niece  and  sister-in-law. 

Virginia  Payne  is  Ma  Perkins,  CBS  Radio,  M-F,  1:15  P.M.  EST,  as  sponsored 

by  Lever  Brothers,  Thomas  J.  Lipton,  Inc.,  Scott  Paper  Company,  and  others. 

24 

herself  has  remained  in  the  background,  and 
TV  Radio  Mirror  is  now  honored  to  present  the 
first  story  ever  printed  about  her  as  Ma  Perkins 
— and  about  Ma  Perkins  as  Virginia  Payne.  As 
years  have  gone  on  and  Ma  has  become  such  a 
real  person  in  her  own  right,  so  dear  to  so  many 
mUUons  of  listeners — in  this  country,  in  Hawaii, 
in  Europe  over  Radio  Luxembourg — letters  from 
many  of  them  have  shown  they  now  want  to 
know  about  "the  woman  behind  the  woman" 
they  have  come  to  love.  This  other  woman, 
who  brings  Ma  Perkins'  wisdom  and  faith  and 
understanding  into  their  homes  and  hearts. 

"At  the  time  the  broadcast  begins,"  she  says, 
"I  know  people  forget  Virginia  Payne  com- 
pletely, and  that  it  is  Ma  Perkins  they  hear  and  , 
'see.'  They  admire  her  as  a  good  wife,  mother  1 
and  grandmother,  a  good  friend  and  neighbor 
and  citizen,  a  good  business  woman.  Older  peo- 
ple, in  particular,  recalling  the  busy  years  of 
their  own  lives,  thrill  to  the  fact  that  she  still 
runs  a  lumber  yard  successfully.  Younger  people 
look  up  to  her  as  an  example  of  what  can  be 
done  by  a  courageous,  good  and  generous  person." 

Whenever  Virginia  goes  back  to  Cincinnati,  for 
brief  vacations  and  holiday  get-togethers  in  the 
house  the  family  still  calls  by  its  street  number, 
"866,"  she  returns  to  a  (S^ontinned  on  page  75) 


On  the  U.  of  Cincinnati  connpus, 
she  recalls  playing  St.  Joan  at  dedi- 
cation   of    Wilson    Memorial    Hall. 


She  chats  with  Theodore  Learn,  who 
was  president  of  their  neighborhood 
drama  club,  is  now  a  bank  officer. 


At  the  news  shop  in  Bell  Block, 
Meyer  Kawetzky  tells  her  he  watches 
for  Ma  Perkins  stories  in  magazines. 


They've  been  "in  character"  for  many  satisfying  years — and  still  get  along 
together  as  well  off  the  air  as  on:  Kay  Campbell  (Ma's  daughter  Evey),  Miss 
Payne    (Ma),    Murray    Forbes    (Willy    FItz),    and    Charlie    Egelston    (Shuffle). 


7m  mil 


y^' 


^ 


y 


-M^^^^(0§^  V}f 


Eloise  English,  as  executive  vice-president  ot  the 
Slenderella  company,  often  consults  with  teen-aged 
girls.   She  appears  (below)  on  radio  with  Galen  Drake, 


By  MARTIN  COHEN 

ONE  OF  THE  QUESTIONS  most  frequently  asked  by  moth- 
ers of  teen-age  daughters  is:  "Can  my  daughter  be 
happy?"  Daughter  may  be  unattractive  for  one  or  for 
several  physical  reasons.  She  may  be  shy  and  moody. 
She  may  not  be  popular  with  boys.  She  may  be  over- 
weight. As  a  result,  she  is  unhappy.  And  modern  moth- 
ers have  come  to  realize  that  their  daughters'  figures, 
posture  and  grooming  are  just  as  important  to  the  young- 
ters'  happiness  as  good  health  and  good  eyesight  and 
straight  teeth. 

So  speaks  beautiful  Eloise  English,  who  gives  down- 
to-earth  advice  on  just  such  problems  every  Saturday  on 
her  CBS  Radio  show  with  Galen  Drake.  Eloise,  twice 
chosen  by  the  Fashion  Academy  as  one  of  the  nation's 
best-dressed  women,  is  also  a  successful  business  woman, 
as  executive  vice-president  of  Slenderella  International. 
She  is  a  stunning,  pepper-and-salt  blonde  who  fits  per- 
fectly into  a  size-twelve  sheath  dress  or  mink  jacket. 
She  is  bright  and  animated, '  and  speaks  with  a  slight 


AN  INTERVIEW  WITH  FIGURE-AND-FASHION  EXPERT  ELOISE  ENGLISH 


Among  figure  faults,  Eloise  English  classes  ^bad  posture  as 
wojst  probiem.  Teenager  who  props  schoolbooks  on  hip  or 
stomach   automatically  throws   herself   into   bad    posture. 


Student  above  illustrates  correct  way  to  carry  books, 
in  contrast  to  girl  at  left.  Below,  Eloise  shows  one 
of  girls  how  to  keep  shoulders  back  for  erect  bearing. 


smile  as  she  continues,  "Very  few  of  us  are  lucky  enough 
to  be  bom  pretty  and  popular. 

"Cinderella  herself  was  a  teenager — and  a  rather  un- 
attractive one,  until  her  fairy  godmother  showed  her 
something  about  grooming.  When  she  walked  into  the 
ballroom  beautifully  gowned  and  carrying  herself  like  a 
princess,  she  was  date  bait."  Eloise  muses  further.  "Most 
attractive  women  were  once  upon  a  time  Cinderellas. 
For  one,  it  was  bad  posture;  for  another,  bad  health  or 
too  much  weight  or  a  frightful  complexion  or  something 
else  again." 

Eloise  recalls  that  her  own  problem  was  awkward 
height.  "I  was  so  very  tall.  I  tried  to  bend  into  myself, 
and  I  still  kept  growing  and  didn't  stop  until  I  was  five- 
ten.  One  day,  however,  I  faced  the  mirror  and  took  a 
long  look  at  my  frightful  slump.  {Continued  on  page  82) 

Eloise  English  is  heard  on  The  Slenderella  Show,  CBS  Radio,  Satur- 
days at  10:50  A.M.  EST,  as  sponsored  by  Slenderella  International. 


27 


Home:  The  Springfield  house  now  occupied  by  his  brother's 
fonnily  is  the  sanne  one  in  which  Jinn  was  born.  (There's  a 
bulldog  and  a  scottie  today,  too — just  as  there  was  then. 


The  singing  sensation  from  the 

Show -Me  State  is  really  showing  the    | 

world  what  a  Missourian  can  do 

By  HELEN  BOLSTAD 

GIRLS  MAY  SWOON  over  his  magazine-cover 
good  looks,  every  time  he  makes  a  TV 
appearance.  Listeners  in  the  Greater  New  York 
area  may  stay  glued  to  their  sets,  every  week- 
day morning,  for  his  shows  over  WCBS  Radio. 
Purchasers  may  push  sales  of  his  recordings, 
such  as  "The  Green  Door,"  up  into  the  millions. 
But  Jim  Lowe  himself- — ^the  center  of  all  this 
flattering  interest — remains  unimpressed.  He's 
strictly  from  Missouri.  From  Springfield,  Mo., 
to  be  exact. 

His  closest  day-to-day  friends  are  a  tight- 
knit  and  talented  group  which  includes 
production  and  business-staff  people,  as  well 
as  performers.  Impatient  with  any  form  of  sham 
or  pretense,  they  shun  the  bright  lights  in 
favor  of  Saturday  get-togethers  in  their 
own  homes  and  apartments.  And  they'll  tell 
you:    "Jim's  not  one  to  make  an  entrance. 
He'll  slip  into  a  corner,  but,  before  you 
realize   what's   happening,   he's   the   focus 


Continued 


► 


Who  can  enjoy  a  scrapbook  better  than  "Mother"? 
And  Jim  finds  special  pleasure  in  retracing  his  trail  to 
fanne  with  Bess  Rogers  Lowe  (Mrs.  H.  A.  Lowe,  Senior). 


SJ:^i^i:]%rOr:t"iE:i^i>,  ]%fl:o. 


Jim's  the  center  of  attention  for  his  nieces,  Gndy  and 
Melissa;  brother,  Dr.  hi.  A.  Lowe,  Jr.;  and  sister-in-law 
— who's  well-known  to  local  TV-viewers  as  "Aunt  Alice." 


Let's  look  at  the  record:  The  womenfolk  are  eager  to 
see  Jim's  latest.  So  are  Drs.  Lowe,  Senior  and  Junior 
(unlike  Jim,  his  brother  took  up  their  dad's  profession). 


Let's  play  it!  Jim  obliges  Alice,  Melissa  and  Cindy — who 
noted  in  a  letter  from  Springfield:  "They're  saying  here 
that  Uncle  Jim  made  it  the  hard  way,  without  sideburns." 


Now,  in  person,  Jim  sings,  ploys,  signs  autographs  for 
a  bevy  of  attractive  student  nurses  at  St.  John's  Hospi- 
tal, where  both  his  father  and  brother  are  on  the  staff. 


Jim  is  heard  over  Station  WCBS  Radio  (New  York)  on  The  Jim  Lowe  Show,  Monday  through  Saturday,  9:05  to  9:30 
A.M. — Jim  Loive  Again,  Monday  through  Friday,  11:30  to  11:45  A.M. — The  Saturday  Lowe  Down,  1:30  to  5:.30  P.M. 


29 


f^--  -^4^^- 


Springfleld  nolables:  Above — E.  E.  Siman,  Ozark  Jubilee 
producer;  Jim;  and  F;  W.  McClerkin,  manager  of  Heer's 
department  store  (in  background).  Below — Pat  Boone  (Red 
Foley's  son-in-law);  Jim;  Ozark  Jubilee  star  Red  Foley. 


Station  KYTV:  Jim  proved  to  be  quite  a  fan  himself,  on 
visit  to  his  sister-in-law's  show.  Left  to  right — Fred  Rains, 
puppeteer  and  producer,  with  the  popular  puppets. 
Skinny  and  Rusty  the  Rooster;  Jim;  "Aunt  Alice"  herself. 


{Continued) 


Students  Mike  Fox,  Tom  Rogers  and  Nancy  Zoloudek  were 
eager  to  shake  hands  with  Jim — who  won  both  dramatic 
and  scholastic  honors  in  his  Springfield  high-school  days. 


of  the  party.    He's  fun  to  have   around." 

Jim's  absolute  lack  of  conceit  continues  to  amaze 
newer  acquaintances.    Milton  Rich,  a  veteran  WCBS 
press  agent,  tells  how,  during  the  worst  of  last 
season's  Christmas-shopping  rush,  Jim  steamed  in, 
late  for  an  appointment  and  full  of  apologies.  He'd 
had  to  deliver  a  television  set,  he  explained. 

"What  do  you  mean,  deliver  a  television  set?" 
Rich  demanded. 

"To  my  manager,"  said  Jim.  "It  was  the  last  one 
the  dealer  had  in  his  store  and,  if  he  had  sent  to 
the  warehouse,  it  wouldn't  have  arrived  in  time  and  .  .  ." 
he  stopped,  out  of  breath. 

Rich  didn't  get  it.  "What,  exactly,  did  you  do?" 
Jim  explained.  "It  was  just  a  couple  blocks,  so 
I  asked  this  other  fellow  to  help  me  and  we  couldn't 
get  a  cab,  so  we  just  carried  it,  and  people  stopped 
to  stare  and  they  got  in  our  way  and  once  we  almost 
dropped  it  and  I  caught  it  with  my  foot  .  .  ."  He 
thrust  out  for  inspection  a  badly  gouged  toe-cap. 
"Guess  I  ruined  a  pair  of  shoes." 
Rich,  by  this  time,  was  in  stitches.  "Jim,  .will 
you  ever  start  acting  like  a  star?" 

The  look  Jim  gave  him  held  a  large  portion  of 
Missouri  show-me.  "If  I  had  taken  time  out  to  be  a 
star,  as  you  call  it,  if  I  hadn't  carried  it  myself, 
then  this  star's  manager  wouldn't  have  had 
a  Christmas  present." 

Jim's  personal  reaction  to  "the  star  stuff"  con- 
tinues mixed.  Certainly,  as  a  disc  jockey  who  has 
helped  to  build  other  recording  names  and  presided  over 
their  personal  appearances,  he  is  familiar  with  the 
pattern  of  popularity,  and  its  consequences.  Certainly, 
too,  he  has  worked  for  his  success.  Although  the 
recording  industry  says  "The  Green  Door"  just  took 
off  last  fall,  Jim  aided  the  launching  by  many  a  long- 
distance call  to  disc  jockeys.    {Continued  on  page  65) 


s:^iri:]VGr:Fi:E]i^i>,  iml€>. 


Jim  Lowe  Night  at  Hickory  Hills  Country  Club — with  the  doors  painted  green!   That's  Sandra  Kennon  with  Jim. 

Back  in  New  York,  Jim  likes  informal  get-togethers  at  home — behind  his  own 
green  door!  With  him  in  the  kitchen  are  former  roommate  Bill  Carey  and  girls- 
next-door  Barbara  Wood  and  Marie  Wollscheid.  In  the  living  room,  Minneapolis 
deejay  Sandy  Singer  watches  the  foursome  play  Spin-the-Platter,  modern  style. 


€^&U  M±  l.ud<L 


Or  call  it  love — Joan  Alexander  doesn't  need 
any  more  worlds  to  conquer.   The  best  of 
all  possible  worlds  is  right  in  her  own  home 


By  MARIE  HALLER 

MEETING  Joan  Alexander — ^better 
known  to  her  listening  audi- 
ence as  Tracey  Malone  in  Young 
Dr.  Malone  and  as  Erika  Ronning 
in  Backstage  Wife — is  just  like 
meeting  "the  luckiest  girl  alive."  A 
modest  young  woman,  Joan  would 
hesitate  to  assume  that  fortunate 
role  in  public,  though  a  total  stran- 
ger could  spot  the  resemblance  with 
one  swift  glance  into  her  private 
life:  Ten-year-old  daughter  Jane  is 
pretty,  bright  and  the  delight  of 
her  mother.  One-year-old  Adam 
is  sturdy,  gay  and  what  every 
mother  hopes  to  gain  in  a  son.  Hus- 
band Arthur  Stanton  is  tall,  hand- 
some and  devoted  to  his  wife  and 
family  (to  name  just  a  few  attri- 
butes) .  And  Joan's  large  New  York 
apartment  is  a  positive  dream. 

"Yes,"  Joan  smilingly  admits,  "I 
guess  I  am  a  lucky  girl  ...  in  fact, 
I  know  I  am.  It  just  sounds  a  little 
boastfiil  to  say  it.  But  please  re- 
member I'm  just  human  .  .  .  my 
luck  hasn't  always  been  so  great. 
Take  my  entrance  into  the  theater, 
for  example.  I  was  fifteen  and  just 
graduated  from  private  school  in 
New  York.  I  wanted  desperately 
to  become  an  actress,  but  my  step- 
father was  just  as  'anti'  the  pro- 
fession as  I  was  'pro.'  In  fact, 
when  I  went  ahead  with  my  plans 
against  his  wishes,  he  threw  me 
out  ..  .  .  temporarily,  of  course — 
but,  none-   (Continued  on  page  85) 


"Dating"  or  homemaking,  Joan  says 
Arthur  Stanton  is  an  ideal  husband. 


32 


T» 


^'/^^r'  tf'^OT 


Joan  enjoys  home  decorating  but  never  "hod  such  fun" 
as  with  this  one!  Plenty  of  space,  no  doubling  up  on 
roonns — and   a  fine  collection   of  paintings  and   prints. 


Arthur  and  Joan  share  an  interest  in  all  the  arts, 
are  happy  to  see  her  daughter  Janie  practicing  piano 
seriously,  whether  or  not  she  nnakes   music  her  career. 


The  kitchen  is  a  spacious  realm,  presided  over  by  French 
ma'mselle  Odette  Bemaille.  Like  every  American  housewife, 
Joan  also   relies  on  that  indispensable  ally,  the  telephone. 


Like  any  "youngest,"  year-old  Adam  is  the  present  center 
of  their  household.  "Janie  is  just  wonderful  with  him," 
Joan  tells  you.    "Sonietimes  I  think  he  prefers  her  to  me!" 


Joan  Alexander  is  Tracey  Malone  in  Young  Dr.  Malone,  heard  over  CBS  Radio,  M-F,  at  1:30  P.M.  EST, 
as  sponsored  by  Lever  Brothers,  Scott  Paper  Company,  Campana,  and  others.  She  is  Erika  Ronning  in 
Backstage  Wife,  heard  on  CBS  Radio,  M-F,  12:15  P.M.  EST,  sponsored  by  Colgate-Palmolive  and  others. 


33 


Early  in  her  marriage  to  Tom  Lewis,  Loretto  learned  a 
valuable  lesson  in  making  people  happy.  Later,  she  drew 
on  that  knowledge — and  her  own  grateful  heart — to  cheer 
little   blind   children   at   New  York's   famous   Lighthouse. 


Loretta  Young  knows  grief  and  joy — 
and  that  there's  enough  of  both, 
without  borrowing  from  past  or  future 


By  DORA  ALBERT 


^^^P^^^l 

Hp^p 

Wl 

M^^^                      'Ij^^^^H 

^^^)^J-' 

lUL 

trj^M 

iii^MiBiii^^l 

1^1 

THE  SIX- YEAR-OLD  BOY  tumed  toward  the  lovely  wom- 
an with  the  huge  gray  eyes  and  the  shining  brown 
hair.  "They  say  you  are  very  pretty,"  he  said.  "I  want  to 
see  for  myself." 

A  mist  fiUed  Loretta  Young's  eyes  as  she  leaned 
toward ,  him.  Smiling,  the  little  one — who  "saw"  with 
his  hands — sent  them,  exploringly,  over  Loretta's  face. 
They  touched  her  forehead,  her  eyes,  her  cheeks,  felt 
the  beautiful  narrow  cheekbones,  and  lingered  over  her 
lips,  which  she  had  curved  and  locked  into  a  radiant 
smile. 

His  smile  was  radiant,  too,  as  he  whispered  to  his 
teacher,  "She  is  very  pretty.  And  her  smile  is  very 
heautijul." 

Loretta  Young  swallowed  the  hard  lump  in  her  throat. 
She  forced  the  mist  from  her  eyes.   She  hasn't  been 


called  "the  iron  butterfly"  for  nothing.  She  can  and  does 
steel  herself  to  composure.  Only  five  minutes  before, 
tears  had  escaped  her  control  and  coursed  down  her 
cheeks.  During  this  visit  to  the  blind  children  at  The 
Lighthouse,  in  New  York,  she  had  imexpectedly  looked 
upon  one  who  bore  an  amazing  resemblance  to  her 
yovmger  son,  Peter.  But  only  her  close  friend  and  as- 
sociate, Helen  Ferguson,  knew  of  Loretta's  tears — ^when 
she  saw  Loretta's  face  pale,  she  had  drawn  her  swiftly 
into  the  corridor  outside  the  room. 

Loretta's  tears  had  been  tears  of  grief  for  these  chil- 
dren forever  deprived  of  sight,  and  of  gratitude  to  God 
that  her  own  children  had  the  blessed  gift  of  sight.  The 
radiant  smile  she  had  managed  while  the  little  blind 
boy  "looked"  at  her  face  was  her  silent  gift  to  the  chUd. 
She  had  smiled  just  for  him,   {Continued  on  page  68) 


The  Loretta  Young  Show,  NBC-TV,  Sun.,  10  P.M.  EST,  is  sponsored  by  The  Procter  &  Gamble  Company  for  Tide,  Camay,  and  Gleem. 


.34 


w 


V 


HE'S  FUNNY  THAT  WAY 


After  posing  for  the  color  portrait  on  the  opposite  page,  Mrs.  Hernnan  Goebel, 
George  and  his  wife  Alice,  son  Gregg  and  daughters  Georgia  and  little  Leslie, 
gather  round  Grandpa  Goebel,  while  he  interprets  the  family  album.  Many  of 
the  pictures  are   reproduced   here — with   quotes  from    Mr.  Goebel's   story. 


And  his  father  tells  tales  to 
prove  George  Gobel's  been 
a  comic  since  he  was  four! 

By  HERMAN  GOEBEL^ 

as  told  to  ^^^ 

Maurine  Myers  Remenih 


BACK  IN  THE  FALL  OF  1953,  MrS. 
Goebel  and  I  were  guests  when 
our  son  George  opened  his  act  at 
the  Empire  Room  of  the  Palmer  House 
in  Chicago.  This  is  one  of  the  fanciest 
eating  places  in  town.  The  cover 
charge  there  costs  more  than  we  pay 
for  a  Svmday  roast.  After  George  fin- 
ished his  act  that  night,  all  those  people 
in  that  high-toned  restatirant  stood  up 
and  clapped.  I  guess  it  was  what  you 
call  a  standing  ovation.  I  was  mighty 
proud,  of  course,  but  I  couldn't  under- 
stand then,  and  I  still  can't  figure  out 

Continued^ 


George's  career  begins — "with  the  chil- 
dren's choir  at  St.  Stephen's  in  Chicago." 


Then — radio  fame,  at  Station  WLS,  as  Little  Georgie  Goebel.  Later, 
he  "just  dropped  out  that  'e'  so!s  people  would  pronounce  it  right." 


36 


vA-i*:::;::     t 


.•".'.:ii:r»««' 


Young  George  "about  1938" — with 
Ernie  Newton,  who  played  the  bass 
with    the    original    Les    Paul    Trio. 


Alice  began  dating  him  ot  Roose- 
velt High.  Before  that — "she  used 
to  think  he  was  an  awful  show-off." 


They  were  nnarried,  not  long  after. 
"Then  George  enlisted  in  the  Air 
Force — helped  train   B-26  pilots." 


With  Diana  Dors  in  RKO's  "I  Married  a  Woman' 
— "ond  he  has  the  nerve  to  claim   he  'works'!' 


HE'S  HINNY  THAT  WAY 

(Continued) 

why  everybody  gets  so  excited.  George  is  doing  the  sarm 
sort  of  thing  he's  done  since  he  was  knee-high  to  a" 
grasshopper.  It  isn't  as  if  he'd  all  of  a  sudden  come  on 
something  new.  But  all  these  people  act  like  they've 
discovered  something.  Pshaw!  I've  been  watching  him 
cut  up  like  that  for  years! 

People  are  all  the  time  asking  me  how-come  George 
is  so  fimny.  They  want  to  know  if  I  was  a  comedian,  or 
if  Mrs.  Goebel  was  in  show  business,  or  were  any  oj 
George's    grandparents    entertainers.     As    for   me,    I'vi 
practically  always  run  a  small  (Continued  on  page  78) 

The  George  Gobel  Show  is  seen  on  NBC-TV,  three  Sat.  out  of  four, 
10  P.M.  EST,  sponsored  alternately  by  Pet  Milk  and  Armour  &  Co. 


38 


Gregg  used  money  earned  on  Dad's  show  to  buy  him  an 
infielder's  glove — because  Dad  was  "still  using  the  one 
he'd  hod  since  Chicago."  And  George  is  teaching  Georgia 
golf — at  5 — "to  moke  It  easier  for  her  husband  someday." 


^^^m 

■1 

^ 

^^ 

^^^^m                  -M 

W^ 

m 

H| 

^Hflmv 

A 

J 

^^^^""^z 

1 

c .   "^^i^^^Eu^ 

^^^^HH^^^^^B       ^^<^ 

1^^^    ^v 

^■r   jn 

g 

George  also  helped  entertain  the  men  in  uniform — "so 
he  knew  what  they  thought  was  funny."  Pictured  above, 
Bobby  Byrne,  Graham  Young,  S.  G.,  Chubby  Berger, 


Even  before  he  was  an  air  cadet, 
he  was  plane  crazy — "used  to  fly 
around  and  around  over  my  store." 


Can't  call  him  "Lonesome  George,"  with  his  wife  and  children,  mother  and  father- 
who  has  a  title  all  his  own:  "Kids  in  the  neighborhood  nicknamed  me  'Handsome  Herb!' 


W^^^ 


'■^^^Sq 


Happy  ending:  Sue  and  Bill  were  married 

last  December  at  the  Riviera  in  Las  Vegas,  where 

Liberace  and  his  brother  George  helped  them 

cut  the  wedding  cake.  But  in  the  beginning,  Bill 

laughingly  admits,  Sue  Coss  wouldn't  even 

"give  me  the  time  of  day"  after  they'd  first  met. 


Bill  Leyden's  heart  races  between 
two  homes— one  on  the  air,  with 
TV  audiences  of  It  Could  Be  You— and 
one  in  the  clouds,  with  his  Sue 

By  GORDON  BUDGE 

SENTIMENTAL  GUY  that  he  is,   Bill  Leyden  has  the 
most  grateful  job  he  could  ever  imagine,  as 
host  of  Ralph  Edwards'  It  Could  Be  You.  Daily  on 
NBC-TV,  he  brings  the  "lost  and  foimd"  together, 
revmiting  mother  and  child,  husband  and  wife — often 
after  long  separations  by  the  widest  of  oceans.  Other 
people's  reunions,  yes.  But  they  touch  Bill  to  the 
heart,  with  the  same  gratitude  and  joy  he  felt  when 
he  and  his  bride,  Sue  Coss,  were  united  in  marriage 
last  December  7,  in  Las  Vegas. 

The  brief  but  beautiful  ceremony  took  place  before 
£in  altar  covered  with  roses  and  gladioli,  in  the 
small  wedding  chapel  of  the  Riviera  Hotel.   Judge 
Johnny  Mendoza  officiated,  and  Liberace  was  best 
man.  However,  the  happily  dazed  bridegroom  is  still 
hazy  about  the  details.   Always  genviine  and  sincere, 
but  blessed  with  a  beguiling  sense  of  htunor,  BiU 
laughs  as  he  recalls,  "I  was  in  a  state  of  shock.    I 
can't  remember  a  thing  about  it.  Were  there  flowers? 
Let  me  see  .  .  .  the  only  thing  I'm  sure  of  is  that 
the  marriage  ceremony  took  three  and  a  half 
minutes — ^I   couldn't  have  stood  it  much  longer! 

"Sue  and  I  decided  to  get  married  without  a  large 
wedding  or  reception,"  he  explains.    "Because  of 
the  daily  TV  show,  we  felt  we  didn't  have  adequate 
time  to  plan.    So  Ben  Goflfstein,  manager  of  the 
Riviera  in  Las  Vegas,  took  care  of  everjrthing.    He 
looked  after  us  in  a  regal  manner,  and  we  think 
of  him  as  our  Cupid." 

Shortly  before  It  Could  Be  You  made  its  debut 
on  NBC-TV,  Bill  was  working  overtime  at  Station 
KTTV  in  Los  Angeles,  as  (Continued  on  page  72) 

Ralph  Edwards'  It  Could  Be  You,  emceed  by  BOl  Leyden,  is  seen 
on  NBC-TV,  M-F,  12:30  P.M.  EST,  sponsored  by  Welch  Grape 
Juice,  Raleigh  Cigarettes,  Brillo,  Boyle-Midway,  Corn  Products, 
Alberto  Culver,  Lehn  &  Fink,  Armour  &  Co.,  Pharmaco,  others. 


Surprise:  Bill  and  pop  singer  Connie  Haines  beam 
OS  It  Could  Be  You  gives  collector  Dr.  Ed  Richardson  a 
hard-to-find  Dorsey  disc.  Problenn:  1+  wasn't  so  easy 
for  Sue  and  Bill  to  find  just  the  place  for  everything 
in  their  new  honne — let  alone  finding  the  home  itself! 


**¥ 


:!?s. 


r 


jjH^Mj^ 


J 


^ 


^ 


7 


/ 


mt 


v\\v 


If  "perfect"  was  just  the  word  for 
Eddie's  and  Debbie's  marriage, 
how  can  they  ever  describe  little 
Miss  Carrie  Frances  Fisher? 

By  PAULINE  TOWNSEND 


You  NEVER  SAW  3  happier  baby.  And  not  because 
there  are  so  many  who  love  her,  so  many 
who  were  wishing  her  well,  even  in  the  months 
before  she  was  born.    Little  Carrie  Frances 
Fisher  could  never  in  the  whole,  wide  world  meet 
all  the  people  who  regard  her  with  such  personal 
interest  and  real  affection.    So  far,  her  own 
world  is  a  small  one,  but  very  warm, 
secure  and  satisfying. 

Carrie  knows  her  mother,  who  took  her  ,to  her 
breast  when  Carrie  was  hungry,  those  first  weeks 
before  she  was  weaned.   She  knows  her  daddy, 
who  has  put  her  against  his  broad,  strong 
shoulder  and  patted  her  gently  from  time  to  time, 
during  those  nursing  periods,  to  "burp"  out  the  air 
bubbles,  and  make  room  for  milk  "to  grow  on." 
Yes,  she  knows  the  mother  and  daddy  who  hold 
her  so  tenderly,  look  at  her  so  adoringly.   But 
she  doesn't  know  they  are  famous.    She 
only  knows  they  are  hers. 

She  doesn't  know  that  "mother"  is  Debbie 
Reynolds,  movie  star,  admired  the  world  over.   Or 
that  "daddy"  is  Eddie  Fisher,  idol  of  millions 
because  of  his  very  special  gift  of  song.   Not  for 
years  will  she  hear  of  the  romance  that  filled 
the  headlines  until  Debbie  and  Eddie  were  married, 
on  September  26,  1955.  And  she  can  never  really 
know  all  the  excitement  her  own  arrival 
created,  last  October  21.  But,  in  a  way,  perhaps 
she  guessed  how  very  much  she  was  wanted  —  for 
little  Carrie  Frances  arrived  two  weeks  earlier 
than  she  was  expected! 

Young  father-to-be  Eddie  had  been  so  solicitous, 
mother-to-be  Debbie  had  been  so  carefiil,  during 
those  months  of  pregnancy.  Everything  had 
been  so  right,  from  the  day  {Continued  on  page  81) 

Coke  Time  Starring  Eddie  Fisher  is  heard  over  Mutual  (Tues- 
days and  Thursdays,  7:45  P.M.  EST)  and  other  stations 
(check   local   papers),   as   sponsored   hy   The   Coca-Cola   Co. 


"Bundle  of  Joy"  not  only  describes  Carrie  today — it's  the 
name  of  the  RKO  musical  which  gave  co-stars  Eddie  and  Debbie 
a  foretaste  of  caring  for  their  expected  baby!  Debbie's  next 
picture  for  home-studio  M-G-M  is  "The  Reluctant  Debutante." 


For  every  woman  who  has  faced  the  crack-up  of 
her  marriage  and  sought  the  courage  to  go  on,  here  is 
the  story  of  Claire  Lowell:  One  of  the  several 
themes  which  make  up  the  popular  daytime  drama, 

AS  THE  WORLD  TURNS 


IT  WAS  perfectly  tranquil  in  Dr.  Snyder's  office. 
It  wasn't  at  all  like  what  Claire  had  once 
thought  a  psychiatrist's  office  would  be.  In  the 
past  few  months,  she'd  come  here  often  enough 
to  feel  quite  at  ease,  and  yet  today  she  had  a 
feeling  of  inner  disturbance.  She  had  come  to  a 
conclusion — and  a  decision  not  to  tell  Dr.  Snyder 
about  it.  It  was  an  important  conclusion.  It 
might  be  the  key  to  the  solution  of  all  her  troubles, 
and  even  end  the  need  for  further  treatments. 
The  doctor  probably  should  pass  upon  it,  but  there 
was  a  stronger  reason  not  to  tell  him.  She  was 
still  disturbed  as  she  sat  in  the  patient's  chair  for 
the  beginning  of  today's  session. 

She  answered  the  routine  questions  briskly. 
Yes,  she'd  slept  fairly  well.  She  hadn't  worried 
as  much  as  usual.  It  had  been  easier  to  talk  to 
people  without  looking  for  meanings  behind  the 
words  they  said.  He  nodded.  He  did  not  really 
act  as  though  she  were  a  patient,  but  as  though 
she  were  someone  with  whom  he  consulted  inter- 
estedly about  the  origin  of  her  troubles,  so  they 
could  be  brought  into  the  open  and  disposed  of. 
He  settled  back  in  his  chair,  now,  with  the  mur- 
mur of  traffic  in  the  street  below  a  sort  of  sooth- 
ing background  of  sound.  He  looked  at  her 
inquiringly. 

"I'm  better  in  every  way,"  she  told  him.  "I 
don't  think  there  is  anything  I  really  need  to 
discuss,  today.  I'm  so  much  better  that  maybe  I 
won't  need  to  bother  you  much  longer." 

"If  you  really  feel  that  way,"  he  said  pleasantly, 
"it's  a  very  good  sign." 

She  nodded,  in  her  turn.  Then  she  looked  at 
him  intently.  "If  I  really  feel  that  way?"  she 
asked.  "Why  do  you  put  it  that  way,  Doctor?  Do 
you  doubt  it?   Don't  I  seem  better?" 

He  smiled  a  little,  but  did  not  answer.  And  she 
suddenly  was  sure  that  she  should  not  tell  the 
doctor  about  the  conclusion  she'd  reached.  It  was 
the  key  to  the  future:  It  was  knowledge  of  the 
positive  act  which  would  mean  her  salvation.    It 


was  not  a  matter  for  Dr.  Snyder  to  pass  on.  But 
he  was  waiting,  not  answering. 

"Why  do  you  speak  as  if  you  were  doubtful?" 
she  insisted.  "If  I  really  feel  that  way.  Do  you 
doubt  that  I  slept  well,  or  that  I'm  less  nerve- 
racked?" 

Doctor  Snyder  said  mildly,  "I  spoke  as  anybody 
would.  But  you  look  for  a  hidden  meaning, 
Claire.  And  that  is  a  sign  of  fear,  and  one  of  the 
things  you  want  to  be  rid  of  is  fear." 

"But  what  did  you  mean?"  she  insisted  again. 

"I  meant  nothing  but  politeness,"  he  said,  as 
mildly  as  before.  "But,  since  you're  afraid  I  meant 
more  than  I  said,  maybe  you'd  better  think  about 
whatever  you're  afraid  I  may  guess." 

He  swung  his  chair  and  looked  out  of  the  win- 
dow. It  was  not  discourtesy,  but  a  way  to  give 
her  time  to  think  without  the  feeling  that  he 
watched  her.  When  he  could  not  look  at  her  di- 
rectly, she  could  marshal  her  thoughts.  Of  course 
what  she  had  been  thinking  was  ultimately  con- 
cerned with  her  husband  Jim  and  her  daughter 
Ellen.  With  the  doctor's  eyes  turned  away,  her 
thoughts  flowed  freely: 

She  saw  the  image  of  Jim,  in  her  mind,  as  viv- 
idly as  the  picture  on  her  dressing-table  showed 
him.  There'd  been  a  time — even  a  very  recent 
time — when  an  image  of  Jim  meant  only  a  wrench- 
ing at  her  heart.  A  long,  long  time  ago,  when  Jim 
was  living  at  his  cluh  and  their  marriage  seemed 
to  he  breaking  up  out  of  sheer  confusion  and 
frustration — then,  even  his  picture  had  been  ban- 
ished from  sight.  But  now  she  could  look  at  it 
without  tears.  Ellen  adored  her  father  and,  despite 
and  during  her  parents'  separation,  she'd  kept  a 
picture  of  him  in  her  room  with  a  sort  of  quiet 
obstinacy.  During  that  horrible  period  it  had  hurt 
Claire  terribly  that  Ellen  cherished  a  picture  of 
the  father  who  was  publicly  separated  from  her 
mother — and  from  her. 

Claire  hadn't  mentioned  that  it  was  disloyal  of 
Ellen  to  cherish  her  father  (Continued  on  page  84) 


As  The  ff'orld  Turns  is  seen  on  CBS-TV,  M-F,  1:30  to  2  P.M.  EST,  sponsored  by  The  Procter  &  Gamble  Company  for  Ivory 
Snow  and  Oxydol.  Anne  Burr  and  Ed  Prentiss  are  pictured  at  right  in  their  original  TV  roles  as  Claire  Lowell  and  Dr.  Snyder. 


A  FICTION   BONUS 


44 


1-4 


"You  still  have  a  strong  emotional 
reaction  to  the  name  Hughes,"  Dr.  Snyder 
observed  quietly.  Claire  flushed. 


ir*t 


jbF^ 


/^^ 


-•'^ 


'■iin^mz. 


f  «:  *"  i 


"t  >• 


For  every  woman  who  has  faced  the  crack-up  of 
her  marriage  and  sought  the  courage  to  go  on,  here  is 
the  story  of  Claire  Lowell:  One  of  the  several 
themes  which  make  up  the  popular  daytime  drama, 

AS  THE  WORLD  TURNS 


IT  WAS  perfectly  tranquil  in  Dr.  Snyder's  office. 
It  wasn't  at  all  like  what  Claire  had  once 
thought  a  psychiatrist's  office  would  be.  In  the 
past  few  months,  she'd  come  here  often  enough 
to  feel  quite  at  ease,  and  yet  today  she  had  a 
feeling  of  inner  disturbance.  She  had  come  to  a 
conclusion — and  a  decision  not  to  tell  Dr.  Snyder 
about  it.  It  was  an  important  conclusion.  It 
might  be  the  key  to  the  solution  of  all  her  troubles, 
and  even  end  the  need  for  further  treatments. 
The  doctor  probably  should  pass  upon  it,  but  there 
was  a  stronger  reason  not  to  tell  him.  She  was 
still  disturbed  as  she  sat  in  the  patient's  chair  for 
the  beginning  of  today's  session. 

She  answered  the  routine  questions  briskly. 
Yes,  she'd  slept  fairly  well.  She  hadn't  worried 
as  much  as  usual.  It  had  been  easier  to  talk  to 
people  without  looking  for  meanings  behind  the 
words  they  said.  He  nodded.  He  did  not  really 
act  as  though  she  were  a  patient,  but  as  though 
she  were  someone  with  whom  he  consulted  inter- 
estedly about  the  origin  of  her  troubles,  so  they 
could  be  brought  into  the  open  and  disposed  of. 
He  settled  back  in  his  chair,  now,  with  the  mur- 
mur of  traffic  in  the  street  below  a  sort  of  sooth- 
ing background  of  sound.  He  looked  at  her 
inquiringly. 

"I'm  better  in  every  way,"  she  told  him.  "I 
don't  think  there  is  anything  I  really  need  to 
discuss,  today.  I'm  so  much  better  that  maybe  I 
won't  need  to  bother  you  much  longer." 

"If  you  really  feel  that  way,"  he  said  pleasantly, 
"it's  a  very  good  sign." 

She  nodded,  in  her  turn.  Then  she  looked  at 
him  intently.  "If  I  really  feel  that  way?"  she 
asked.  "Why  do  you  put  it  that  way.  Doctor?  Do 
you  doubt  it?   Don't  I  seem  better?" 

He  smiled  a  little,  but  did  not  answer.  And  she 
suddenly  was  sure  that  she  should  not  tell  the 
doctor  about  the  conclusion  she'd  reached.  It  was 
the  key  to  the  future:  It  was  knowledge  of  the 
positive  act  which  would  mean  her  salvation.    It 

As  The  World  Turns  is  seen  on  CBS-TV,  M-F,  1:30  to  2  P.M. 
Snow  and  Oxydol.  Anne  Burr  and  Ed  Prentiss  are  pictured  a 


was  not  a  matter  for  Dr.  Snyder  to  pass  on.  But 
he  was  waiting,  not  answering. 

"Why  do  you  speak  as  if  you  were  doubtful?" 
she  insisted.  "If  I  really  jeel  that  way.  Do  you 
doubt  that  I  slept  well,  or  that  I'm  less  nerve- 
racked?" 

Doctor  Snyder  said  mildly,  "I  spoke  as  anybody 
would.  But  you  look  for  a  hidden  meaning, 
Claire.  And  that  is  a  sign  of  fear,  and  one  of  the 
things  you  want  to  be  rid  of  is  fear." 

"But  what  did  you  mean?"  she  insisted  again. 

"I  meant  nothing  but  politeness,"  he  said,  as 
mildly  as  before.  "But,  since  you're  afraid  I  meant 
more  than  I  said,  maybe  you'd  better  think  about 
whatever  you're  afraid  I  may  guess." 

He  swung  his  chair  and  looked  out  of  the  win- 
dow. It  was  not  discourtesy,  but  a  way  to  give 
her  time  to  think  without  the  feeling  that  he 
watched  her.  When  he  could  not  look  at  her  di- 
rectly, she  could  marshal  her  thoughts.  Of  course 
what  she  had  been  thinking  was  ultimately  con- 
cerned with  her  husband  Jim  and  her  daughter 
Ellen.  With  the  doctor's  eyes  turned  away,  her 
thoughts  flowed  freely: 

She  saw  the  image  of  Jim,  in  her  mind,  as  viv- 
idly as  the  picture  on  her  dressing-table  showed 
him.  There'd  been  a  time — even  a  very  recent 
time — when  an  iynage  oj  Jim  meant  only  a  wrench- 
ing at  her  heart.  A  long,  long  time  ago,  when  Jim 
was  living  at  his  club  and  their  marriage  seemed 
to  be  breaking  up  out  of  sheer  confusion  and 
frustration — then,  even  his  picture  Hod  been  ban- 
ished from  sight.  But  now  she  could  look  at  it 
without  tears.  Ellen  adored  her  father  and,  despite 
arid  during  her  parents'  separation,  she'd  kept  a 
picture  of  him  in  her  room  with  a  sort  of  quiet 
obstinacy.  During  that  horrible  period  it  had  hurt 
Claire  terribly  that  Ellen  cherished  a  picture  of 
the  father  who  was  publicly  separated  from  her 
mother— and  from  her. 

Claire  hadn't  mentioned  that  it  was  disloyal  of 
Ellen  to  cherish  her  father  (Continued  on  page  84) 


^ 


:3r*«9Sir^ 


I*-    -■ 


■■*» 


<T 


^^4^: 


■P" 


EST,  sponsored  by  Tlie  Procter  &  Gamble  Company  for  Ivory 
right  in  their  original  TV  roles  as  Claire  Lowell  and  Dr.  Snyder. 


'You  still  have  a  strong  emotional 
'eocllon  fo  the  name  Hughes,"  Dr.  Snyder 
observed  quietly.  Claire  flushed. 


A  FICTION   BONUS 


Peggy  Wood  has  been  everyone's  ideal  "Mama"  since  the 
series  began  almosf  eight  years  ago.  And  Judson  Loire,  as 
Papa  Hansen,  has  been  her  perfect  TV  partner  just  as  long. 


Mama 


It's  the  family  show  which  insisted 
on  living — because  its  heart  beats  with 
the  pulse  of  all  America's  own  heart 


IT  WAS  ONLY  a  small  family  squabble,  but  one  which 
Mama  could  not  possibly  approve.  Would  she  take 
issue?  Or  would  she,  in  her  wisdom,  give  Nels 
and  Dagmar  time  to  change  their  minds  and  settle  it 
themselves?  ...  In  the  CBS-TV  rehearsal  hall,  Peggy 
Wood  read  from  her  script,  "I  have  a  headache.  I  will 
go  upstairs  and  lie  down." 

Then  she  paused.  It  was  one  of  those  magic  moments 
when  script,  character  and  performer  merge  as  one. 
Miss  Wood  said  softly,  "Mama  never  makes  excuses. 
If  she  had  a  headache,  she  never  would  admit  it." 
She  pondered  a  moment.  "How  would  it  be  if  I  said, 
'Excuse  me.  I  have  some  things  to  do  upstairs' — ?" 

Nels,  Dagmar  and  director  Don  Richardson  nodded. 
Aunt  Trina,  Aunt  Jenny  and  everyone  else  on  set 
smiled.  Mama  was  still  staunchly  Mama.  To  each  actor 
and  actress,  the  minor  revision  was  important.  They 
don't  think  of  Mama  as  just  a  play.  It  is  what  happens 
to  the  Hansens,  a  living,  breathing  -family,  and  they 
belong  to  it.  Their  devotion  has  drawn  answering  de- 
votion. Mama  was  a  book,  a  play  and  a  motion  picture 
before  it  became,  in  1948,  one  of  the  first  TV  shows  to 
go  coast-to-coast.  When,  in  Jxirie,  1956,  some  people 
thought  it  was  time  to  retire  Mama,  they  (as  Mama 
would  say)  "certainly  heard  about  it"  from  the  viewers. 

The  Governor  of  Connecticut  wrote  a  letter.  So  did 
many,  many  eight-year-old  boys.  A  church  sent  a 
petition  bearing  5,000  names.  Sons  of  Norway  lodges 
took  official  action — but  that  was  to  be  expected.  Un- 
anticipated were  the  letters  from  young  mothers  saying, 
"Please,  our  children  love  Mama  and  it  is  good  for  our 
famUy." 

Mam,a,  therewith,  became  that  television  rarity,  a 
canceled  show  which  came  back  stronger  than  ever,  in 
prime  viewing  time.  CBS-TV  has  set  that  nostalgic 
hour  when  day  turns  to  dusk  on  Sunday  for  the 
weekly  visit  to  Lars  and  Marta  Hansen,  Norwegian 
immigrants,  and  their  American-born  children,  Katrin, 
Nels  and  Dagmar. 

Why  did  people  insist  on  keeping  Mama?  That  great 


46 


Cl^ 


■"** 


■w 


^m>f 


"f 


Scene  Is  San  Francisco.  Time  has  progressed  -from  1910  to  1918.  Kotrin  Hansen,  now  20,  is  married; 
Nels,  23,  is  in  the  Army;  Dagmar,  14,  is  in  high  school.  Pictured  with  Papa  and  Memo,  left  to  right: 
Rosemary  Rice  as  Katrin,  Ruth  Sates  as  Aunt  Jenny,  Toni  Campbell  as  Dagmar,  Dick  Van  Patten  as  Nels. 


lady  of  the  theater,  Peggy  Wood,  who  portrays  her,  has 
some  answers.  "It  is  concerned  with  the  everyday 
drama  of  children  growing  up."  She  recalls  with  pride 
that  a  woman  judge  in  a  Brooklyn  family-relations 
court  once  made  Mama  prescribed  viewing  for  hus- 
bands and  wives  at  the  break-up  point.  The  judge 
fotmd  it  helped  save  many  a  marriage. 

Miss  Wood  has  a  theory  why  so  many  of  the  letters 
were  written  in  childish  scrawls.  "Television  is  real 
life  to  children.  Mama  breaks  through  that  bafflement 
between  generations.  They  like  the  security  of  a  day 
when  children's  manners  were  firmly  taught." 

She  cites  a  program  incident,  in  which  the  children, 
as  children  do,  were  playing  one  parent  off  against  the 
other.  Mama  stopped  it  by  saying,  "Your  father  has 
the  final  word.  Your  father  is  head  of  this  family." 


Miss  Wood  feels  strongly  on  that  score.  "I  object 
to  the  current  attitude  which  depicts  the  father  as  the 
fool.  It  is  xmkind,  and  I'd  like  to  see  it  stopped.  Mama 
is  the  reverse  of  'momism.'  It  re-establishes  the  au- 
thority of  the  father.  Mama  Hansen  makes  it  clear  that 
Papa  not  only  is  to  be  loved,  he  is  to  be  respected.  He 
is  head  of  the  house  and  the  provider." 

Freedom  is  another  appeal.  She  explains,  "The  Han- 
sens  have  a  little  house,  with  a  front  yard  and  a  back 
yard,  a  thing  for  which  city  children,  whose  play  must 
always  be  supervised,  always  yearn.  The  Hansens  have 
close  friends.  They  have  their  church  and  the  whole 
Norwegian  community  to  draw  from.  They  are  not 
alone.  I  think  the  children  who  wrote  to  us  would  like 
to  go  back  to  a  day  when  life  was  simpler.  I  think  they 
were  really  saying,  'We  wish  things  were  like  this.' " 


See  Next  Page- 


47 


Mama 


(Continued) 


Former  child  actor  Dick  Van  Patten  is  the  original  and 
only  Nels.  Present  child  actor  Kevin  Coughlin  is  "T.R." 
— ^the  child  Aunt  Jenny  (Ruth  Gates)  took  to  her  heart. 


Seems  as  though  Rosemary  Rice  has  always  been  Katrin 
— and  she  has,  TV-wise.  Like  Katrin  herself,  Rosemary 
has  wed  since  Ma wa  first  came  to  CBS-TV,  July  1 ,  1 949. 


Mama's  success  is  the  latest  of  many  triumphs  for  its 
talented  star.  Born  Margaret  Wood  in  Brooklyn,  before 
the  turn  of  the  century,  she  began  studying  voice  at  8, 
changed  her  name  to  Peggy  when  she  joined  the  chorus 
of  a  Victor  Herbert  musical  at  18.    Since  then,  she's 
won  fame  on  two  continents  as  both  actress  and  singer, 
in  works  of  Shakespeare  and  Shaw,  Noel  Coward  and 
Jerome  Kern.   Widow  of  poet  John  V.  A.  Weaver,  she 
is  now  the  wife  of  printing  executive  William  H.  Wall- 
ing— ^and  a  grandmother,  covu-tesy  of  her  son  David. 
.  .  .  Like  "Mama"  Peggy,  "Papa"  Judson  Laire  adopted 
Norway  as  a  second  homeland,  has  visited  Lars  Han- 
sen's own  birthplace  in  Bergen.   A  real  estate  broker, 
he  did  little -theater  work  near  his  home  at  Pleasant- 
ville,  N.  Y.,  before  turning  "pro"  at  the  age  of  34.   He 
made  his  Broadway  debut  with  Jane  Cowl,  has  done 
many  stage  plays,  began  TV  in  its  experimental  days, 
has  entertained  troops  overseas  in  Germany  and  Aus- 
tria. A  bachelor,  he  boasts  two  families:  His  sister's — 
and  his  adored  Hansens,  whom  he  often  entertains,  off 
camera,  in  his  New  York  apartment.  .  .  .  Rosemary  Rice 
has  a  very  special  role  as  Katrin — the  "original"  of 
Kathryn  Forbes,  who  wrote  the  autobiography  which 
inspired  both  the  Broadway  play  and  TV  series.  Rose- 
mary's a  native  of  Montclair,  N.  J.,  where  a  high-school 
play  won  her  a  scholarship  at  New  York's  Professional 
Children's  School.    She's  done  Broadway  plays,  radio 
daytime  dramas,  and  summer  stock.    Rosemary  wed 
insurance-man_  Jack  Merrell  in  July,  1954.  .  .  .  Dick 
Van  Patten  began  his  career  in  the  cradle,  as  a  baby 
model  for  a  New  York  agency.  He  made  his  Broadway 
debut  at  8,  appeared  on  stage  with  many  "greats,"  in- 
cluding Alfred  Lunt  and  Lynn  Fontanne,   has  done 
films,  summer  stock  and  radio,  as  well  as  TV.  His  wife 
is  Pat  Poole,  a  June  Taylor  dancer — and  Dick's  class- 
mate at  Professional  Children's  School.  They  have  two 
small  sons.  .  .  .  Aunt  Jenny  is  Ruth  Gates'  other  self,  by 
now.  She  created  the  role  in  Broadway's  "I  Remember 
Mama,"  has  played  it  on  tour,  in  summer  stock,  radio 
and  TV.  Texas-born  Ruth  got  her  first  stage  job  from 
famed  producer  David  Belasco — as  the  result  of  a  fake 
telegram  sent  her  by  practical  jokers.  A  TV  and  radio 
veteran,  she  can  play  any  woman  from  35  to  100  years 
old.  .  .  .  Aunt  Trina  is  Alice  Frost  from  Minneapolis — 


Modern  teenagers  grow  up  fast,  so  Mama  has  a  new 
Dagmar  in  Toni  Campbell.  Alice  Frost  (near  right)  is 
still  Mama's  younger  sister,  Aunt  Trina,  now  a  widow. 


where  her  father  was  a  Swedish  Lutheran  minister. 
While  studying  voice  and  dramatics,  Alice  got  an  offer 
with  a  stock  company  in  Florida,  soon  found  herself 
actmg  on  Broadway  for  the  Theater  Guild.  Her  many 
radio  roles  have  included  Pam  in  the  late  Mr.  And  Mrs. 
North  and  Marcia  in  today's  The  Second  Mrs.  Burton. 
.  .  .  Youngest  member  of  the  cast,  as  "T.R."  Ryan,  is 
Kevm  Coughlin,  born  Dec.  12,  1945,  to  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Jack  Coughlin  of  New  York  City.  His  mother  was  a 
professional  dancer  and  still  teaches.  He  himself  began 
as  a  photographers'  model  at  3,  did  his  first  TV  show 
at  4,  has  also  acted  on  Broadway.  .  .  .  Newest  member 
is  Toni  Campbell,  who  is  Dagmar,  now  that  Robin 
Morgan  has  "graduated"  to  other  TV  roles.  Bom 
Sept.  27,  1944,  in  Newark,  N.  J.,  Toni  won  a  citywide 
beauty  contest  at  3,  studied  dancing,  did  fashion  model- 
mg  and  TV  commercials,  but  had  little  acting  ex- 
perience till  her  natural  gifts— and  resemblance  to 
Peggy  Wood— proved  that  here  is  a  real  little  Hansen. 

Mama,  produced  by  Carol  Irwin,  is  seen  over  CBS-TV,  approxi- 
mately three  Sundays  out  of  four,  from  5  to  5:30  P.M.   EST. 


^n  [veiling  with  tlVIS 


\ 


Crowds  at  WMC  when  Elvis  visited  me  (below)  showed  how  far  he'd  come  since  we  both  went  to  Humes  High  School.       i 


I'd  known  Elvis  Presley  ever 
since  we  were  in  high  school  together. 
How  much  had  fame  and  fortune 
changed  him?   Those  hours  at  his 
home  in  Memphis  gave  me  the  j 

answer — and  some  new  questions  !        { 
By  GEORGE  KLEIN  j 

Prominent   Deejay,   Station   WMC, 
Memphis,  Tenn. 


*«^ 


Memphis  girl — a  real  sweet  one,  too 
— is  Barbara  Hearn.  I  Introduced  'emi 


GEE,  AS  1  REMEMBER  IT,  it  WHS 
about  eight  years  ago  when  I 
first  heard  Elvis  Presley  sing.  It 
wasn't  for  big  enormous  screaming 
crowds,,  nor  for  television,  radio,  or 
even  on  records,  but  merely  at  a 
little  eighth-grade  music  classroom 
get-together  during  the  Christmas 
season  at  Humes  High  School  here 
in  Memphis.  After  the  class  had 
finished  singing  carols.  Elvis  got  up 
in  front  of  the  room  and  started  to 
sing  "Cold,  Cold,  Icy  Fingers," 
which  was  popular  in  the  cotintry 
and  Western  field  at  that  time.  I 
never  will  forget  Elvis  singing  that 
song,  there  just  seemed  to  be  some- 
thing about  the  way  he  sang  that 
stayed  with  me. 
Elvis  came  (Continued  on  page  87) 


Biloxi    girl,    June    Juanico,    arrived 
for  a  visit  while  I  was  at  his  honne. 


Scene  with  Debra  Paget  in  "Love  Me 
Tender,"   Elvis  admires  Debra  a   lot. 


He  likes  starlet  Natalie  Wood,  too, 
who  also  canne  to  Memphis  to  see  him. 


With  dancer  Dorothy  Harmony — just 
after   he   passed    his   Army   physical. 


The  sharp   velvet  shirts   are   new,   but   he   has   the   same 
old   love  for  his   parents,    Mr.   and    Mrs.   Vernon    Presley. 


Elvis  with  Dewey  Phillips,   Memphis  deejay  who  gave  me 
that  first  Presley  disc,  and  hloHywood  actor  Nick  Adams. 


You  raiser  the  questions. 
The  panel  chooses  its  answers 
—  and  tells  v/hy.  Result: 
Solid  entertainment! 


f 


y 


/- 


'■■t^-* 


Arthur  Hen 


Panel  members  Edith  Walton  and  John  S.  Young  (above)  send  up  a  brilliant  opinion  barrage 
|ey,  program's  creator,   producer. 

OVER  the  ABC  Radio  airwaves  whizzes  some  of  the 
fastest  ad-lib  thinking  and  talking  current  in  this 
year  1957.  Daily  from  Monday  to  Friday,  a  tifteen-minute 
panel  session  takes  up  eveiyday  problems  sent  in  by 
listeners,  and  a  guest  psychologist  sums  up  the  opinions 
invoked  from  regular  panel  members  Edith  Walton  and 
John  S.  Young  and  two  guests.  The  entire  proceedings 
are  competently  moderated  by  George  Skinner. 

On  a  recent  program  the  opening  bombshell  was  this 
problem:  You  are  a  single  man  and  have  a  very  rich  old 
uncle.  He  tells  you  if  you  marry  the  girl  of  his  choice, 
he  will  leave  his  entire  fortune  to  you,  and  it's  consider- 
able! But  this  girl  is  also  considerable — considerably 
homely!  So,  how  would  you  meet  this  situation.  .  .  .  Just 
refuse  to  marry  the  girl?  Marry  her  for  his  money?  Or 
try  to  talk  him  out  of  it  and  maybe  lose  your  opportimity? 
Make  Up  Your  Mind! 

Confronted  with  this  intriguing  set  of  alternatives, 
Joan  Barnes — a  secretary  who  was  chosen  from  the 
audience — took  a  strong  stand  against  the  marriage, 
claiming  that  any  man  who  would  do  such  a  thing  would 
have  to  be  very  mercenary.  Edmund  Purdom,  Hollywood 
star  who  was  making  a  guest  appearance,  rejected  with 
disdain  the  idea  of  anybody  choosing  to  marry  an  un- 
attractive wife,  no  matter  how  many  shekels  she  would 
bring  along  with  the  marriage.  John  S.  Young  con- 
curred. Only  hold-out  for  money  against  the  romantic 
concept  of  a  beautiful  wife  (be  she  rich  or  poor)  was 
Edith  Walton,  ex -newspaper  woman  and  book  reviewer, 
who  stoutly  maintained  that  "beauty  is  only  skin  deep," 
and  the  man  in  question  might  find  that  he  had  literally 


I^- 


with  secretary  Joan  Barnes  (fronn  studio  audience)  and  Edmund "Purdom  (the  day's  quest  star). 

George  Skinner,  urbane  moderator  of  the  show. 
married  a  treasure  of  a  wife,  in  addition  to  all  that 
money.  When  the  opinions  were  in,  Dr.  Fred  Brown, 
psychology  professor  of  New  York  University,  said:  "If 
this  man  is  suggestible,  submissive  and  pleasure  loving, 
he  may  marry  for  the  uncle's  money.  If  his  pride  is 
unusually  high,  he  may  regard  the  offer  as  an  insult  to 
dignity,  and  refuse.  If  he  is  Tiot  an  extremist,  he  may  talk 
the  uncle  out  of  his  autocratic  notion.  But  he  may  be 
mistaken  about  the  girl's  homeliness,  and  discover  she 
has  warmth,  kindUness  and  humor,  and  that  the  uncle's 
wider  experience  with  hfe  has  enabled  him  to  discern 
these  valuable  traits." 

Questions  like  these  are  considered  daily  by  the  panel. 
To  the  sessions  they  bring  a  variety  of  background.  Mr. 
John  S.  Young  has  been  an  American  diplomat,  intelli- 
gence agent,  and  is  now  Deputy  Chairman  of  the  UN 
Committee  of  the  City  of  New  York.  Edith  Walton  has 
long  experience  as  a  reporter  and  Hterary  reviewer,  is 
now  an  editorial  adviser  to  the  Macmillan  Company  and 
G.  P.  Putnam's  Sons,  publishers.  George  Skinner,  mod- 
erator, also  had  a  series  of  news  jobs,  broke  into  radio 
in  Dayton  and  Cincinnati  as  an  announcer  and  then  into 
TV  in  Philadelphia — with  three  shows  of  his  own.  Arthur 
Henley,  producer  of  Make  Up  Your  Mind,  also  got  an 
early  start  on  radio  with  a  show  he  produced  while  still 
in  Far  Rockaway,  L.I.  High  School,  and  has  an  impres- 
sive array  of  show  credits,  including  Duffy's  Tavern, 
Kate  Smith  Hour,  and  others.  With  the  bright  bunch  of 
minds  at  work,  it's  no  wonder  that  Make  Up  Your  Mind 
is  such  a  fast  fifteen  minutes  of  argument  and  discus- 
sion— with  a  built-in  information  content. 


Make  Up  Your  Mind  is  heard  on  ABC  Radio,  Mon.-Fri.,  11:15 
A.M.  EST  (on  WABC  only,  at  1 :15  P.M.) .  George  Skinner  also  has 
his  own  show  over  WABC  Radio  (N.Y.)  ,Mon.-Sat.,  from  6  to  9  A.M. 


53 


You  raise  the  questions. 

The  ponel  chooses  its  answers 


w 


—  and  tells  why.  Result: 
Solid  entertainment! 


m 


^jC5;>r 


TOUR  Mind 


«. 


y 


^  /tt:^ 


Panel  members  Edith  Walton  and  John  S.  Young 
iley,  program's  creator,   producer. 


(above)  send  up  a  brilliont  opinion  barrage 


OVEB  the  ABC  Radio  airwaves  whizzes  some  of  the 
fastest  ad-lib  thinking  and  talking  current  in  this 
year  1957.  Daily  from  Monday  to  Friday,  a  iifteen-minute 
panel  session  takes  up  evei-yday  problems  sent  in  by 
listeners,  and  a  guest  psychologist  sums  up  the  opinions 
invoked  from  regular  panel  members  Edith  Walton  and 
John  S.  Young  and  two  guests.  The  entire  proceedings 
are  competently  moderated  by  George  Skinner. 

On  a  recent  program  the  opening  bombshell  was  this 
problem:  You  are  a  single  man  and  have  a  very  rich  old 
uncle.  He  teUs  you  if  you  marry  the  girl  of  his  choice, 
he  will  leave  his  entire  fortune  to  you,  and  it's  consider- 
able! But  this  girl  is  also  considerable — considerably 
homely!  So,  how  would  you  meet  this  situation.  .  .  .  Just 
refuse  to  marry  the  girl?  Marry  her  for  his  money?  Or 
try  to  talk  him  out  of  it  and  maybe  lose  your  opportunity- 
Make  Up  Your  Mind! 

Confronted  with  this  intriguing  set  of  alternatives, 
Joan  Barnes — a  secretary  who  was  chosen  from  the 
audience— took  a  strong  stand  against  the  marriage, 
claiming  that  any  man  who  would  do  such  a  thing  would 
have  to  be  very  mercenary.  Edmimd  Purdom,  Hollywood 
star  who  was  making  a  guest  appearance,  rejected  with 
disdain  the  idea  of  anybody  choosing  to  marry  an  un- 
attractive wife,  no  matter  how  many  shekels  she  would 
bring  along  with  the  marriage.  John  S.  Young  con- 
curred. Only  hold-out  for  money  against  the  romantic 
concept  of  a  beautiful  wife  (be  she  rich  or  poor)  was 
Edith  Walton,  ex-newspaper  woman  and  book  reviewer, 
who  stoutly  maintained  that  "beauty  is  only  skin  deep, 
and  the  man  in  question  might  find  that  he  had  literaUy 


with 


secretary  Joan  Barnes  (from  studio  audience)  ond  Edmund  Turdom  (the  day's  quest  star). 

George  Skinner,  urbane  moderotor  of  the 


married  a  treasure  of  a  wife,  in  addition  to  all  that 
money.  When  the  opinions  were  in,  Dr.  Fred  Brown, 
psychology  professor  of  New  York  University,  said:  "If 
this  man  is  suggestible,  submissive  and  pleasure  loving, 
he  may  marry  for  the  uncle's  money.  If  his  pride  is 
unusually  high,  he  may  regard  the  oflfer  as  an  insult  to 
dignity,  and  refuse.  If  he  is  not  an  extremist,  he  may  talk 
the  uncle  out  of  his  autocratic  notion.  But  he  may  be 
mistaken  about  the  girl's  homehness,  and  discover  she 
has  warmth,  kindliness  and  humor,  and  that  the  uncle's 
wider  experience  with  life  has  enabled  him  to  discern 
these  valuable  traits." 

Questions  like  these  are  considered  daily  by  the  panel. 
To  the  sessions  they  bring  a  variety  of  background.  Mr. 
John  S.  Young  has  been  an  American  diplomat,  intelli- 
gence agent,  and  is  now  Deputy  Chairman  of  the  UN 
Committee  of  the  City  of  New  York.  Edith  Walton  has 
ong  experience  as  a  reporter  and  Uterary  reviewer,  is 
now  an  editorial  adviser  to  the  Macmillan  Company  and 
'-'•  P-  Putnam's  Sons,  publishers.  George  Skinner,  mod- 
erator, also  had  a  series  of  news  jobs,  broke  into  radio 
m  Dayton  and  Cincinnati  as  an  announcer  and  then  into 
^V  in  Philadelphia — with  three  shows  of  his  own.  Arthur 
Henley,  producer  of  Make  Up  Your  Mind,  also  got  an 
farly  start  on  radio  with  a  show  he  produced  while  still 
"}  Par  Rockaway,  L.I.  High  School,  and  has  an  impres- 
sive array  of  show  credits,  including  Duffy's  Tavern, 
'^fte  Smith  Hour,  and  others.  With  the  bright  bunch  of 
|"mds  at  work,  it's  no  wonder  that  Make  Up  Your  Mind 
's  such  a  fast  fifteen  minutes  of  argument  and  discus- 
sion—with a  built-in  information  content. 


show. 


Make  Up  Your  Mind  is  heard  on  ABC  Radio,  Mon.Fri.,  11:15 
A.M.  EST  (on  WABC  only,  at  1 .15  P..\l.) .  George  .Skinner  also  has 
his  own  show  over  WABC  Radio  (N.Y.)  .Mon.Sat.,  from  6  to  9  A.M. 


53 


The  laughs  came  later.  Ronnie  knew  his  parents  were  funny 
long  before  he  knew  they  were  famous.  How  could  he  miss  it, 
with  all  that  wos  happening  in  the  Burns  and  Allen  home? 


Ronnie  is  seen  on  The  George  Burns  And  Grade  Allen  Show,  CBS-TV, 
Mon.,  8  P.M.  EST,  as  sponsored  by  B.  F.  Goodrich  and  Carnation  Co. 


m  Life 


Is  there  a  difference,  on  TV  and  off? 

Ask  Ronnie — he^s  been  part  of  '^Burns  and 

Allen"  as  far  back  as  he  can  remember! 

By  EUNICE  FIELD 

YOUNG,  dark  and  handsome  Ronnie  Bums  looked 
genuinely  puzzled.   "Wonderful?   My  life  with  Bums 
and  Allen?"  he  echoed.   And  then,  with  a  sudden 
wry  grin:  "Let  me  give  you  an  idea.  .  .  .  Some  time  ago, 
I  was  skin-diving  for  abalone,  off  Catalinsu     I  was 
about  thirty  feet  down,  and  stjiffing  abalone  into  a  bag, 
when  I  saw  something  big  and  silvery  swirling  in 
from  my  right  side.    My  blood  froze.     It  was  a  shark. 
According  to  instructions,  I  was  to  stay  put — ^no 
panic,  no  movement.     Luckily  I  had  my  aqualung  on. 
After  three  minutes,  the  shark  swerved  by  and 
disappeared.  I  couldn't  get  to  the  top  fast  enough.  That 
evening  at  dinner,  I  told  my  family  about  this 
frightening  experience.    These  were  the  comments: 
"Sandra  (my  sister) :  'Ronnie  Burns,  how  can  you  fib 


Continued 


► 


Sandra  at  3I/2,  Ronnie  at  2I/2 — not  long  before  he  threw 
away  his  water-wings  forever.  Not  to  be  outdone,  Mommy 
learned  to  swim,   too,   with  typically  Sracie-Ish    results. 


54 


with  GEORGE  and  GRAGIE 


My  Life  with  GEORGE  and  GRACIE 


Burns  and  Allen,  Sandy  and  Ronnie — when  he  was  a  student 
at  nnllitary  school,  and  learned  he  lived  in  a  "crazyhouse"! 


At  14,  Ronnie  was  an  annateur  critic  of  "Sugarthroat's" 
singing.  Sracie  and   Sandy   played   along  with   George. 


so?   I  heard  that  one  two  years  ago  and  it  had 
a  much  better  punch-Hne.' 

"Gracie:  "The  poor  shark  was  probably  hungry. 
Why  didn't  you  give  him  some  of  your 
abalone,  dear?' 

"George:    'Three  minutes,  eh?    Your  mother 
would  have  been  a  goner  if  she  had  to  keep 
still  three  minutes!' 

"How,"  asks  Ronnie  with  a  look  almost  as  rueful 
as  his  dad's,  "could  anyone  be  anything  but 
chipper  in  a  family  like  that?" 

Now  in  his  second  successful  year  with  The 
George  Burns  And   Gracie  Allen  Show,  Ronnie 
confesses  it  was  not  until  his  middle  teens 
that  he  became  fully  aware  of  what  celebrities  his 
parents  were.     That  there  was  some- 


Continued 


► 


Watching  Sandy  with  her  baby  girl,  Ronnie  looks 
forward  to  the  day  "I  have  a  family  of  my  own." 


Much  kidding,  when  he  decided  to  act — but  George  also  gave 
Ronnie   the   serious   advice   only   a    true    professional    knows. 


Ronnie  has  studied  seriously  at  the  Pasadena  Playhouse,  as  well  as  the  University  of  South- 
ern California.  But  he  finds  time  for  dates,  too — and  the  beach  Is  his  natural  home.  Below 
left,   with    Diane  Jergens,    Dwayne    hiickman   and    l.inda   Burns.    Below   right,  with   Diane. 


.^' 


h 


n 


My  Life  with  GEORGE  andJRACIE 


thing  imusual  about  them,  however,  was 
impressed  rather  forcefully  on  him  at  a 
comparatively  early  age.  He  was  about 
ten,  and  a  student  at  the  Black-Foxe 
Military  Academy  in  Hollywood,  when  he 
met  a  schoolmate  who  seemed  to  have 
taken  leave  of  his  senses.  Instead  of  the 
regular  greeting,  this  boy  did  a  hand- 
stand and  yelled,  "Hello  there,  upside- 
down  cake!"  Since  the  boys  were  always 
coining  new  nicknames  for  one  another, 
Ronnie  thought  nothing  of  it  until  the 
boy  got  back  on  his  feet  and  declared,  "You 
live  in  a  crazyhouse!"  When  Ronnie  pro- 
tested this  Hbel  on  his  home,  the  boy  said, 
"My  pop  says  that  your  mom  turns  every- 
thing topsy-turvy." 

Precisely  four  minutes  and  twenty-odd 
blows  later,  Ronnie  started  for  home, 
victorioxis  but  sporting  several  lumps  and 
bruises  as  trophies  of  the  encounter.  He 
applied  to  his  father  for  a  key  to  this 
riddle,  "Just  what  did  that  kid  mean. 
Dad?"  George  pondered  a  moment.  "Son," 
he  said  at  last,  "you  know  yovir  mother 
and  I  are  performers.  We're  what's  called 
'comedians.'  We  tell  funny  stories.  But, 
aside  from  that,  your  momer  is  a  great 
American  philosopher.  A  philosopher? 
That's  a  person  who  puts  \is  in  our  place 
and  makes  us  laugh  doing  it.  Now,  when 
people  get  to  feeling  they're  too  small  or 
too  big  to  enjoy  the  world,  yoxir  mother 
turns  everything  upside-down — and,  all  at 
once,  the  ones  who  feel  too  small  get 
a  new  slant  on  things,  and  the  ones  who 
feel  too  big  realize  that  everything  is 
touched  with  absurdity  .  .  .  even  they 
themselves." 

One  reason  why  children  of  entertainers 
are  liable  to  take  the  importance  of  their 
parents  for  granted,  Ronnie  believes,  is  the 
"herding  instinct"  of  theater  people.  "They 
stick  together  and  their  kids  stick  to- 
gether," he  explains.  "When  fans  or  auto- 
graph-7seekers  used  to  come  to  otir  table 
at  the  Brown  Derby  or  some  otiier  restau- 
rant, there  would  usually  be  Jack  Benny, 
Fred     Astaire,     Groucho    Marx,     Johnny 


Ronnie  on  TV  with  Grade  and  George 
— who  warned  him:  "The  going  won't  be 
smoother    because    we're    your    folks!" 


58 


(Continued) 

Green,  or  some  other  celeb  at  the  table, 
and  they  would  be  getting  an  equal  amotmt 
of  attention.  It  was  obvious  Burns  and 
Allen  were  'somebodies.'  But,  at  the  same 
time,  they  weren't  the  only  somebodies 
there.  So  I  never  gave  it  much  importance." 

To  bear  this  out,  Ronnie  tells  a  story  that 
happened  when  he  was  a  child  of  eight. 
Several  children  of  screen  stars  were 
bragging  about  the  guests  who  had  stayed 
at  their  homes.  Said  one  moppet,  "Gary 
Cooper  was  at  my  house  yesterday."  Little 
Freddy  Astaire,  a  lifelong  friend  of  Ron- 
nie's, retorted:  "So  what?  We  had  Rin- 
Tin-Tin  at  our  place."  Whereupon  Ronnie 
drew  himself  to  his  full  height  and  silenced 
them  all  with  the  awesome  revelation,  "We 
had  a  dress  manufacturer  from  New  York, 
and  he  stayed  a  whole  weekend,  too."  At 
this  period,  Ronnie  also  believed  there 
was  some  mystic  association  between  star- 
dom and  wearing  a  toupee.  His  father  and 
so  many  other  prominent  figures  of  stage 
and  screen  did.  To  Ronnie  and  Sandra,  a 
toupee  was   sort  of  a  badge   of  success. 

Nobody  looking  at  Ronald  Bums,  six- 
feet-two,  tanned  and  muscled  like  a  life- 
guard, wovild  believe  for  a  second  that  he 
had  once  been  thought  too  sickly  to  adopt. 
Yet  George  Burns,  in  his  hilarious  and 
touching  book,  "I  Love  Her — That's  Why," 
tells  of  the  moment  when  he  and  Gracie 
looked  at  the  baby  they  had  come  to  take 
for  their  own,  and  he  voiced  a  great  doubt 
in  his  heart.  "Gracie,"  he  had  said,  "I  don't 
mind  responsibility,  but  this  is  a  sick  one." 
Grade's  reply  had  been  characteristic  and 
decisive.  "What  if  we'd  had  him  ourselves 
and  he'd  turned  out  sick?  Just  look  at  his 
eyes,  and  you'll  see  what  I  mean.  This  is 
our  Ronnie." 

The  eyes  that  Gracie  fell  in  love  with 
are  still  large,  dark  and  piercing;  they 
dominate  the  long  angular  planes  of  his 
face,  which  will  probably  grow  craggier 
in  time.  These  eyes  already  show  every 
indication  of  being  as  magnetic  to  the 
public,  particularly  women,  as  they  were 
twenty-one  years  ago  to  his  parents. 

Ronnie  began  his  life  with  Bums  and 
Allen  in  a  triplex  at  the  Hotel  Lombardy 
in  New  York.  He  and  his  sister  Sandra — 
one  year  his  senior,  and  adopted  the  year 
before  he  was — remember  nothing  of  tiiis 
apartment  because,  three  months  later,  they 
wei-e  all  on  their  way  to  California.  George 
and  Gracie  were  going  to  make  a  film,  and 
it  was  decided  to  buy  a  real  home  on 
Maple  Drive  in  Beverly  Hills.  It  was  a  two- 
storey,  white  frame  house  of  sixteen  rooms, 
and  it  was  here  that  Ronnie  developed 
one  of  the  great  interests  of  his  life. 

George  had  decided  that  the  kids  ought 
to  have  a  swimming  pool.  But,  when  he 
approached  Gracie,  she  expressed  some 
fear.  Sandra  was  only  two,  she  pointed 
out,  and  Ronnie  barely  one.  Wouldn't  it  be 
dangerous?  After  much  persuasion  by 
George,  Gracie  gave  in.  The  pool  was 
built  and  the  children  allowed  to  splash 
about  in  water-wings  and  rubber  tubes. 

When  Ronnie  turned  three,  he  noticed 
that  Sandy  was  swimming  without  any 
life-saving  device  at  all.  With  his  mother 
standmg  by,  speechless  with  horror,  he 
doffed  his  own  cork  jacket  and  jumped  in. 
George  came  running,  but  refrained  from 
going  to  the  rescue  when  he  saw  Ronnie 
strike  out  boldly  and  thrash  his  way  to  the 
other  end  of  the  pool.  The  boy  swam  a 
whole  hoxir  that  day,  and  has  been  an 
addict  of  water  sports  ever  since.  As  a 
result  of  this  exploit,  Gracie— always  anx- 
ious that  the  children  think  well  of  her— 
conquered  her  own  fear  of  the  water  and 


learned  to  swim.  She  called  Sandra  and 
Ronnie  out  one  day,  swam  the  length  of 
the  pool  and  back,  and  hasn't  been  in  it 
since. 

Ronnie's  devotion  to  the  beach — ^he  is 
constantly  surfboarding,  skindiving,  sail- 
ing, fishing,  and  so  on — is  the  subject  of 
much  teasing  by  his  family.  "Look  who's 
talking  about  beach-bums,"  he  will  finally 
explode.  "A  bunch  of  desert  rats  that  rush 
out  to  Palm  Springs  in  120  degrees  of  heat, 
when  every  sane  and  sensible  person  is 
out  dunking  in  nice,  cool  water." 

Ronnie,  according  to  his  father,  was 
actually  the  sort  of  American  boy  that 
the  movies  and  magazines  have  made 
popular.  He  was  in  all  kinds  of  boyish 
escapades.  He  seldom  used  the  stairs,  when 
going  up  to  or  down  from  his  room,  but 
made  his  entrances  and  exits  by  way  of  a 
trellis  outside  his  window.  One  night,  not 
so  long  ago,  he  forgot  his  key  and,  rather 
than  wake  the  family,  resorted  to  his  old 
trick  of  climbing  the  trellis.  Suddenly  he 
was  caught  in  a  glaring  spotlight.  The 
Beverly  Hills  police  were  below,  eyeing 
him  with  vmdisguised  suspicion.  George 
and  Gracie  had  to  be  called  out  to  identify 
him.  "A  humiliating  experience,"  Ronnie 
recalls,  "and — in  a  family  that  knows 
eighty  variations  of  every  joke — ^the  bitter, 
absolute  end!" 

There  was  also  the  time  when  Ronnie 
was  given  permission  to  buy  his  own 
coat  for  the  first  time.  He  returned  with 
something  in  huge  plaid  checks  that 
George  describes  as:  "The  loudest  thing 
ever  seen  outside  a  burlesque  prop  room." 

Then  there  was  the  outrigger  Ronnie 
wanted  to  build.  He  went  to  a  lumber 
yard  with  the  idea  of  getting  material  for 
a  ten-foot  boat.  As  he  began  work  in  their 
back  yard,  members  of  the  family  stopped 
by  to  offer  suggestions  and  criticism — ^not 
always  charitable,  even  if  funny.  The  boat 
was  finally  done.  It  had  turned  out  too 
heavy  to  lift,  too  large  to  go  through  the 
gate — and,  amid  "a  routine  of  Bums  and 
Allen  at  their  best,"  Ronnie  had  to  tear  the 
thing  apart  and  start  over. 

One  of  the  more  memorable  incidents 
in  a  youth  that  seems  to  have  had  the 
usual  amount  of  excitement  was  his  fling 
at  archery  hunting.  Though  George  him- 
self had  never  himted  and  Gracie  views  it 
with  a  squeamish  eye,  they  both  pre- 
tended to,  share  his  enthusiasm  for  this 
latest  of  his  hobbies.  Along  with  some 
teen-age  schoolmates,  Ronnie  ventured 
into  the  hills  near  Lake  Arrowhead  and 
bagged  his  first  deer.  Bubbling  over  with 
elation,  he  brought  it  home,  where  he  and 
his  buddies  skinned  and  cured  it,  using 
"a  little  knowledge  and  a  great  deal  of 
imagination."  Unfortimately,  the  carcass 
still  retained  what  Ronnie  calls  "a  slight 
odor"  when  he  proudly  hung  it  on  his  bed- 
room wall.  Gracie,  however,  when  she 
came  in  to  view  the  prize,  wrinkled  her 
nose  and  called  it  something  else. 

She  suggested  gently  that  perhaps  it 
would  have  a  more  decorative  appeal  in 
the  garage.  Ronnie  protested  hotly.  Gracie 
said  noUiing  more.  Several  days  later,  his 
enthusiasm  had  worn  off  and  his  nose  had 
begun  telling  him  he  had  made  a  dreadful 
mistake.  He  was  rather  relieved  when 
Gracie  slipped  into  his  room  one  night 
while  he  was  asleep,  removed  "the  thing" 
and  put  it  in  the  garage.  She  replaced  it 
with  a  beautiful  seascape  in  water  colors. 
After  studjdng  the  picture  a  few  hours, 
Ronnie  decided  to  re-do  his  room  in  nauti- 
cal style.  He  and  Gracie  went  shopping  for 
drapes,  bedspreads,  (Continued  on  page  73) 


Because  They  CARE 


•  •• 


"fm^ 


Deejays  brought  back  eye-witness  accounts  of  the  Hungarian  tragedy. 
Refugees  need  food,  shelter,  and  a  new  start  in  life,  they  reported. 


Interviewed  by  Buddy  Deane  (with  earphones)  and  Art  Nelson  (second 
from  right),  refugees  sang  U.S.  songs  learned  via  Radio  Free  Europe. 


American  Ambassador  to  Austria  Llewelyn  Thompson  briefs  the  deejays. 
At  table,  I.  to  r.:  Buddy  Deane,  Art  Nelson,  Paul  Berlin,  Mr.  Thompson. 


The  beat  comes  from  the  heart  as 
deejays  unite  for  public  service 


ROUND  DP  a  group  of  deejays  and  you've 
rounded   up   as   many   opinions   as   record- 
spinners.  One  thing  is  unanimous:    Every 
deejay  wants  music  to  be  a  force  for  good. 
Agreed   on   this,   they   also   agreed   that 
collectively  they  could  exert  a  more  powerful 
influence.     The    result    is    the    newly-organized 
National  Council  of  Disc  Jockeys  for  Public 
Service,  which  is  well  on  its  way  to  a  goal 
of    15,000    members.     According    to    President 
Miuray  Kaufman,  the  Council  will  concentrate 
on  campaigns  which  are  of  special  interest 
to  young  listeners  and  which  are  not  otherwise 
heavily  supported.   Their  first  project  is  to 
raise  $5,000,000  through  American  youth  for 
Hungarian  relief,  much  of  the  money  to  go  to 
CARE.    Ten  members  of  the  Council — Murray 
Kaufman  of  WMCA  in  New  York,  Paul 
Berlin  of  KNUZ  in  Houston,  Bob  Clayton  of 
WHDH  in  Boston,  Del  Courtney  of  KSFO  in 
San   Francisco,   Buddy   Deane   of   WITH   in 
Baltimore,   Al   Jarvis   of   KFWB   in   Hollywood, 
Phil  McLean  of  WERE  in  Cleveland,  Don 
McLeod  of  WJBK  in  Detroit,  Art  Pallan  of 
KDKA  in  Pittsburgh  and  Art  Nelson  of  KLIF 
in  Dallas — flew  to  Austria  to  talk  to  Hungarian 
refugees  and  bring  back  eye-witness  reports 
on  tape  and  film.   Then  the  entire  Council 
membership  went  to  work  organizing  teen-age 
fund-raising  committees.  Other  teenagers  invited 
Hungarian  immigrants  into  their  homes.   Music 
shows  and  record  hops  set  CARE  contributions 
as  the  price  of  admission.  In  this  and  future 
campaigns,  the  beat  comes  from  the  heart. 


Above,   Al   Jarvis   meets   a    refugee   family. 
Below,  Murray  Kaufman  interviews  a  student. 


59 


IVIUSI 
Kfei 


From  the  police  force  to  the  WW  DC  staff. 
Jack  Rowzie  leads  Washington's  music  patrol 


Policemen  talk  shop.  Jack  Webb,  as  Dragnet's  sergeani,  out- 
ranks Jack  Rowzie,  who  never  rose  above  real-life  patrolman. 


y    Jack  was  proud  of  his  policeman's  badge,  but  Jon,  wife  Edith 
R    and   Donna   are  even   prouder  of  his  Gold    Record   Award. 


60 


FROM  Gang  Busters  to  Dragnet,  the  airwaves  are 
filled  with  show-business  personalities  im- 
personating policemen.  Washington  boasts  the  op- 
posite. Jack  Rowzie  is  a  man  who  went  from  night 
stick  to  microphone  in  the  twinkle  of  a  brass 
button.  .  .  .  Once  a  member  of  Washington's 
Metropolitan  Police  Force,  Jack  is  now  a  top-ranking 
deejay  on  Station  WWDC.  The  transformation 
occurred  when  Jack,  assigned  to  night  duty  around 
Thomas  Circle,  struck  up  a  friendship  with 
George  Crawford,  a  WINX  announcer.  When  Craw- 
ford admitted  the  war  had  left  the  station  hungry 
for  announcers,  the  "flatfoot"  hotfooted  it  over 
to  the  studios  to  file  an  application.  One  Sunday 
in  1943,  the  entire  staff  came  down  with  the 
virus  and  a  voice  was  needed  fast.  Jack  went 
on  the  air  for  eight  hours  straight.  .  .  .  By  1951, 
he'd  moved  over  to  WWDC,  where  he  soon  had 
his  own  deejay  show.  Now,  his  beat  is  a  solid 
one.  Jack  patrols  Cluh  1260,  heard  Monday  through 
Saturday  from  3:30  to  8  P.M.  For  his  first  hour, 
Jack  jumps  for  the  teenagers.   From  4:30  to   6, 
the  emphasis  is  on  traffic  information,  news 
and  sports  interspersed  with  records.  And,  from 
then  to  his  sign-off  time.  Jack  plays  it  sweeter 
for  the  dinner  audience.  Rating  surveys  put  the 
show  in  the  capital's  number-one  spot.  .  .  .  Born 
Jime  1,  1914,  in  Manassas,  Virginia,  Jack  moved 
to  Washington  in  1923.  He  admits  to  being 
"a  ham  from  way  back,"  but  his  younger  brother, 
Bruce  Eliot,  moved  into  radio  first  and  is  one 
of  the  top  announcers  with  WOR-Mutual  in 
New  York.  ...  As  a  deejay,  Jack  took  to  read- 
ing Elizabeth  Barrett  Browning's  poem,  "How  Do 
I  Love  Thee,"  to  a  background  of  David  Carroll's 
instrumental  record  of  "Melody  of  Love."  Then 
Mercury  Records  announced  a  national  contest  for 
the  deejay  who  got  the  most  requests  to  do  just  this. 
Jack  won  in  a  walk,  later  recorded  his  reading 
Eor  Mercury  and  won  a  Gold  Record  Award.  .  .  . 
■Jack  followed  his  brother  into  radio  and  his  sister 
into  marriage.  He  liked  the  family  she'd  mar- 
ried into  so  much  that  he  married  his  sister-in-law, 
Edith  Evans.  They  now  live  in  a  two-storey, 
seven-room  frame  house  in  Forest  Heights,  Mary- 
land. Donna,  17,  and  Jon,  9,  will  greet  a  new  sibling 
any  day.  As  a  booster  of  teenagers.  Jack  likes 
having  one  around  the  house.  "Donna's  a  built-in 
record  player,"  he  grins.  "If  she  plays  a  record 
more  than  ten  times  in  a  row,  it's  a  hit."  A  parakeet 
named  Joe  Smith  is  the  family's  other  whiz  at 
auditioning  records.  At  home  or  on  Station  WWDC, 
Jack  Rowzie  patrols  the  music  beat. 


r  All 


It's  a  family  affair  as 
maestro  Lee  Vincent  and 
his  daughters,  Juanita 
and  Candy,  star  on  WILK 


The  Four  Aces  are  among  the  many  top  stars  to  sing  with  Lee  Vincent's  band. 


ON  A  MUSICAL  free-for-all,  it's  three  for  all.   In  order 
of  seniority,  they  are  Lee,  Juanita  and  Candy  Vincent, 
father  and  daughters  who  take  to  the  airwaves  every 
Saturday  from  11  to  1  P.M.  over  Station  WILK  in  Wilkes- 
Barre.  Between  records,  there  are  stories  and  chatter  by 
the  Vincent  trio — none  of  whom  is  likely  to  be  at  a  loss  for 
words.  .  .  .  Lee,  of  course,  is  the  popular  Pennsylvania 
maestro  who  graduated  from  bass  man  with  such  bands  as 
that  of  the  late,  great  "Hot  Lips"  Page  to  baton  man 
with  his  own  aggregation.    Lee  Vincent  and  His  Band  are 
on  record  with  a  fast-selling  album,  "Collector's  Club,"  have 
appeared  with  such  name  stars  as  Nat  Cole,  Bill  Haley  and 
His  Comets,  Eddie  Fisher,  and  the  Four  Lads,  and  have 
played  in  ballrooms  all  over  the  East.   For  six  consecutive 
seasons  now,  they  have  opened  the  famed  Steel  Pier  in 
Atlantic  City.  .  .  .  For  Lee,  baton-wielding  led  to 
record-spinning   and   broadcasting.    Then,    one   Saturday 
afternoon,  he  brought  Juanita,  now  thirteen,  along  to  do 
the  radio  show  with  him.   Listeners  responded  with  a  deluge 
of  mail  and  Juanita  became  a  regular.   Candy,  who'll  be 
seven  this  May,  wasn't  one  to  sit  at  home  while  her  big 
sister  became  a  "star."   She,  too,  joined  the  show,  with 
the  same  mail  results.   Juanita,  who  takes  over  when 
Lee  goes  on  tour  with  his  band,  has  her  own  half -hour  show 
from  12:30  to  1,  when  she  plays  the  top  tunes  of  the  day. 
But  even  today,  it's  Candy  who  receives  most  of  the 
mail.   Much  of  this  is  due  to  her  uninhibited  comments. 
When  Coca-Cola  became  one  of  Lee's  sponsors,  he  asked 
Candy  how  she  liked  it.    "I  don't  like  it,  Daddy,"  she 
replied.   Lee  grew  pale — but  amused  listeners  wrote  so  many 
letters  to  comment  on  the  accident  that  the  sponsor  renewed 
his  contract.  .  .  .  Lee,  being  a  family  man,  is  delighted  at 
the  chance  to  work  with  his  daughters.   The  trio  lost 
their  number-one  fan  and  listener  when  the  girls'  mother 
passed  away  just  after  Penny  was  born.   From  then  on, 
Juanita  was  her  dad's  girl  and  went  on  many  band  dates 
with  him.   She  was  jealous  of  every  other  woman — until 
a  visit  to  a  beauty  parlor  one  day  for  a  haircut.  "Daddy,"  she 
reported,  "I  asked  Lucille,  the  hairdresser,  to  come  to 
the  show  and  dinner  with  us."  Juanita  arranged  this  first 
"date,"  then  followed  it  up  by  inviting  Lucille  to  the 
Vincent  home  for  dinner.  She  played  Cupid  for  six  months, 
until  Lucille  and  Lee  were  married  on  Thanksgiving 
Day,  1955.   This  December,  a  fourth  daughter.  Rose  Ann, 
arrived  at  the  nine-room  home  in  Shickshinny.    Lee, 
a  former  newsboy  and  coal  miner,  is  a  graduate  of  the  high 
school  here,  and  his  daughter-partners  go  to  Shickshinny 
School.   It  looks  as  though  this  lucky  town  will  be  famous 
for  music-makers  for  a  long  time  to  come. 


From  jazz  man  to  disc  jockey,  Lee 
has  always  hit  just  the  right  note. 


Each  has  his  own  musical  mind.    Juanito  likes  rock  'n'    T 
roll,  Lee's  a  jazz  man.  Candy's  sweet  on  daddy's  band.    ^ 


61 


(Continued  from  page  21) 
eyes  off  her.    She  was  absolutely  perfect." 

They  named  her  Melissa  Ann.  George 
had  leaned  to  "Dinah."  But  he  was  no 
match  for  the  look  on  the  young  mother's 
face  when  she  said,  "I've  always  loved 
Melissa  .  .  and — well,  Ann  was  my 
mother's  name." 

Then  the  magic  day  they  took  Missy 
home. 

"All  my  life,  I'd  dreamed  of  the  day  my 
husband  would  take  our  baby  and  me 
home  from  the  hospital.  Well!"  Dinah 
smiles  now.  (George  Montgomery  is  natur- 
ally a  very  calm  man,  but  he  was  a  wild 
man  that  day.  He  yelled  at  traffic  and 
shook  his  fist  and  bawled,  "Where  d'ya 
think  you're  going!"  The  new  father  was 
so  afraid  somebody  might  run  into  them 
and  hurt  Missy.)  "George  carried  Missy 
into  the  house  so  carefully — like  she  was 
made  of  spun  sugar — like  she  would 
break " 

Yes,  from  the  moment  they  knew  she 
was  coming,  her  parents  had  carried  Missy 
very  "next  to  their  hearts." 

The  decision  to  adopt  a  baby  brother  or 
sister  for  her  had  not  come  suddenly.  Nor 
easily.  Theirs  were  all  the  mixed  emotions 
...  all  the  longing  and  the  hesitation. 

"We  knew  this  was  a  very  big  step — and 
it's  so  difficult  to  adopt  a  baby.  You  put 
in  an  application,  and  there  are  so  many 
on  the  waiting  list.  We  had  our  natural 
child,  and  many  of  the  others  hadn't.  Then 
again,  there  is  the  popular  conception  of 
the  instability  of  our  town  that  makes 
authorities  timid  about  giving  you  a  child," 
Dinah  says  slowly,  remembering  all  those 
months,  waiting  and  waiting. 

"George  and  I  had  hoped  we'd  be  able 
to  have  other  children  of  our  own,  but  so 
far,  this  hadn't  happened.  We  realized 
Missy  was  six  years  old  and  being  raised 
alone  .  .  .  and — well,  this  wasn't  good. 
There's  a  certain  strength  you  need  in 
this  life,  which  comes  from  a  larger 
family." 

George  Montgomery  came  from  a  family 
of  fourteen  brothers  and  sisters,  but  Dinah 
did  not.  And,  during  the  days  of  waiting, 
Missy's  mother  was  remembering  another 
girl.  Another  intimate  little  family,  a  house 
in  Nashville,  Tennessee  .  .  .  and  how  empty 
that  house — the  day  a  lovely,  vivacious 
lady  left  it.  She  remembered  a  fifteen- 
year-old  girl,  Frances  Rose  Shore  (as 
Dinah  was  known  then),  who'd  rushed 
home  from  high  school  one  afternoon  to 


Always  Near  Your  ^eart 

find  her  mother  suffering  from  a  heart 
attack.  The  overpowering  sense  of  loss, 
when  her  mother  had  gone.  Her  father 
had  to  be  away  a  lot,  traveling  around  his 
chain  of  stores.  Her  brother-in-law.  Dr. 
Maurice  Seligman,  who  was  interning  in 
St.  Louis,  and  Dinah's  sister,  Bessie,  had 
given  up  their  place  there  and  come  to 
Nashville  to  make  a  home  for  her.  .  .  . 

"In  a  small  family  it's  so  hard  to  adjust 
to  a  loss."  Dinah  remembers — very  well. 
"A  small  family  can  be  warm  and  cozy, 
but  it's  nothing  like  having  responsibility 
and  attention  spread  around.  I've  always 
felt  this.  And  if  one  parent  dies,  the  loss 
is  irreparable.  Not  that  any  loss  isn't — 
but  the  smaller  the  family,  the  greater 
the  loss.  There's  something  about  a  large 
family,  during  tragedy  or  any  time  of 
distress,  that's  so  wonderful.  A  certain 
strength  just  being  with  each  other — the 
togetherness  the  feeling  of  belonging.  I  be- 
lieve the  more  people  you  belong  to,  in 
the  immediate  family,  the  stronger  you 
are." 

And  so  the  day  finally  came,  when  Missy 
had  to  be  told  they  were  enlarging  their 
own  family.  And  how  they  were  going  to 
do  it.  "We  told  Missy  just  a  week  before 
Jody  was  born.  If  you  tell  a  child  too  far 
ahead  of  time,  you  can't  explain  the  pro- 
cedure, the  delays.  We  knew  Missy  would 
keep  asking  questions  like  'But  when. 
Mommy?'  Questions  you  can't  easily  an- 
swer." 

Dinah  began  preparing  her,  that  day, 
by  saying,  "You  know  how  you've  wanted 
a  baby  brother  and  sister  for  so  long?" 
Yes,  Missy  said,  wide-eyed  .  .  .  waiting 
.  .  .  sensing.  .  .  . 

Dinah  explained  that  Missy's  Mommy 
and  Daddy  had  put  in  an  application  for 
one,  and  what  a  wonderful  privilege  it  was 
to  be  allowed  to  adopt  a  baby.  They'd 
told  the  authorities  all  about  Missy — what 
a  wonderful  little  girl  she  was — and  the 
authorities  had  decided  she  would  make  a 
perfect  sister  for  a  little  boy  or  girl.  They 
were  particularly  impressed  with  Missy — 
and  how  lucky  the  little  baby  would  be  to 
have  a  sister  like  her  .  .  . 

And  then  her  daughter  had  stopped 
Dinah  with  those  simple  words:  "Oh, 
Mommy — I  want  you  to  carry  one  next 
to  your  heart!"  As  Dinah  says  now,  "Missy 
knew  I'd  carried  her  close  to  my  heart. 
Then,  too,  children  don't  want  to  be  differ- 
ent from  other  children.  Missy  knew  she 
would  hear  her  little  friends  talking  about 


T 
V 
R 

62 


TV  RADIO  MIRROR  FOR  MAY 

THE  BIG  AWARDS  ISSUE 

Stories  and  pictures  on  all  the  stars  you 
have  voted  your  favorites  for  1956-57 

May  Issue  on  Sale  April  4 


their  brothers  and  sisters,  and  she  didn't 
want  hers  to  be  any  different." 

But  the  day  her  parents  brought  John 
David  Montgomery  home,  the  pink  cherub 
with  the  golden  hair,  big  bright  brown 
eyes  and  warm  smile  made  his  own  con- 
quest. "We  brought  Jody  home  in  the 
daytime,  and  George  went  after  Missy  at 
school.  It  was  time  for  Jody  to  eat  before 
his  nap,  and  Missy  gave  him  his  first 
bottle.  From  that  moment,  he  was  hers!" 
her  mother  says  now.  "She's  a  very  re- 
markable little  girl — her  reaction  was  so 
wonderful  .  .  ." 

"He  is  so  cute,  Mommy,"  Missy  had  said 
excitedly.  And  added,  "It's  nicer  this  way 
— really.  Mommy.  The  other  way,  you'd 
have  to  be  in  the  hospital  so  long — and 
I  wouldn't  like  that.  I'm  glad  we  got 
him  this  way." 

But  you  don't  "adopt"  a  sense  of  be- 
longing, and  strength  of  family  involves 
more  than  mere  numbers  or  how  many 
papers  you  may  sign.  Now  they  were  four. 
How  strong  a  foursome  would  depend,  in 
part,  on  how  much  each  loved  and  de- 
pended upon  the  other.  It  takes  time  for 
this  sense  of  belonging  to  grow.  It  would 
— and  did — take  time  for  Missy  to  really 
get  used  to  the  new  relationship. 

"Missy  was  worried  at  first,"  Dinah  says 
now.  "She  wasn't  used  to  having  another 
child  around.  It  took  a  little  while  for  her 
to  know  that  her  own  security,  or  our 
love  for  her,  wasn't  being  threatened." 

This  was  brought  home  poignantly  one 
day  when  Dinah  and  both  children  were 
in  the  nursery.  Dinah  was  bathing  Jody, 
and  Missy  decided  to  perch  herself  up  on 
top  of  his  dresser  and  watch.  In  the 
process  of  climbing  up  there,  she  almost 
fell. 

"Darling!  Be  careful.  You'll  hurt  your- 
self," her  mother  said. 

And  Missy's  response  startled  her.  "You 
love  me  anyhow,  don't  you.  Mommy? 
Even  if  you  do  have  the  baby — " 

"How  could  I  ever  love  anybody  more 
than  I  love  you!"  Dinah  said,  holding  her 
close — and  realizing  Missy  must  really 
have  been  giving  this  serious  thought,  to 
come  out  with  it  suddenly  that  way. 

Missy's  parents  were  prepared  from  the 
beginning  for  various  facets  of  the  tender 
problem  of  the  adopted  versus  a  natural 
relationship.  "There  are  problems  and 
questions  you  naturally  anticipate,"  Dinah 
explains.  "And  you  have  the  answers — you 
hope.  But,  of  course,  nobody  knows  really 
what  the  problems  will  be  before  they 
come.  The  children  are  both  still  so  young, 
it's  hard  to  know.  And  I  don't  try  to 
anticipate  too  many  problems.  I  take  things 
as  they  come — and  just  try  to  anticipate 
the  most  vital  things." 

That  Missy  could  even  feel  this,  as 
she  showed,  that  day  in  the  nursery,  was 
a  vital  thing.  By  way  of  reassuring  Missy 
how  important  she  was  to  her  Mommy  and 
Daddy,  as  Dinah  says,  "You  give  them 
even  more  attention  than  usual.  And  you 
try  to  be  even  more  understanding  than 
you  may  have  been  on  occasion.  You  make 
them  feel  a  vital  part  of  the  new  relation- 
ship, and  you  favor  them  in  certain  ways. 

"Missy  gets  certain  privileges  anyway, 
that  Jody  doesn't  have.  She  gets  to  eat 
later  with  the  family.  She  gets  to  stay  up 
and  help  entertain  guests  when  they  come 
over.  And  she  participates  in  many  various 
family  activities.  But  we've  found  that,  if 
you're  always  fair,  if  you  let  children  know 
their  own  security  and  your  love  for 
them  isn't  being  threatened — that's  the 
thing." 

Jody's  quarters  were  arranged  from  the 
beginning  so  that  his  schedule  would  in 
no  way  infringe  upon   Missy's.   "We  put 


Jody's  room  'way  down  the  hall  from 
Missy's  room,  so  he  wouldn't  be  a  burden 
to  her.  So  Missy  wouldn't  have  to  worry 
about  keeping  her  little  friends  quiet  when 
they  come,  or  have  to  be  curtailing  any  of 
her  own  activities,  noise  or  fun  for  fear 
of  waking  him." 

Missy  figured  importantly,  too,  in  prep- 
arations for  him,  contributing  many  of 
the  furnishings  for  the  nursery.  "We  used 
mostly  Missy's  things.  Jody's  bed  was 
Missy's.  George  had  made  it  for  her  when 
she  got  too  big  for  the  hand-carved  cradle. 
And  Jody  not  only  has  Missy's  stuffed 
toys — she  even  contributed  a  beautiful 
Raggedy  Ann  doll  which  had  been  in- 
tended as  a  gift  to  me,"  her  mother  laughs 
now.  When  Missy  saw  the  doll,  she  quickly 
latched  onto  it,  saying,  "Mommy,  you 
can't  keep  that.  It's  perfect  for  Jody." 
Picking  up  the  doll  and  appraising  it  care- 
fully. Missy  decided,  "It's  Jody's."  And 
it  is. 

Missy  is  assuming  her  full  share  of 
"family  responsibility"  for  her  little  broth- 
er, too,  leaving  no  doubt  that  he  is  very 
near  her  own  heart.  "Missy's  a  fine  little 
mother,"  Dinah  says  proudly  of  her  nine- 
year-old.  "She  baby-sits  with  Jody  when- 
ever it's  necessary,  and  she's  very  re- 
sponsible. Nobody  could  be  more  responsive 
to  his  needs.  If  George  and  I  go  out.  Missy 
always  makes  sure  Jody's  all  right.  She 
hangs  onto  him  for  me  when  we  go  shop- 
ping, too — and  that's  a  labor  of  love,  with 
any  slippery  two -year -old!" 

Although,  as  Missy  informed  Dinah,  she 
herself  no  longer  believes  in  Santa  Claus, 
she  insisted  on  taking  Jody  to  see  Santa. 
"I  like  it  much  better  this  way,"  she  told 
her  mother,  in  her  amazing  way  of  pin- 
pointing just  the  right  word.  "Last  year, 
I  got  my  beautiful  doll.  And  I  like  it  much 
better.  Mommy,  that  you  picked  it  out, 
rather  than  Santa  Claus,  who  picked  out 
dolls  and  presents  for  so  many  people." 
But  she  still  thought  Jody  should  go  see 
Santa. 

While  Jody  was  over  ad-libbing  with 
Santa  Claus —  "I  want  weindeer,  I  want 
'no  (snow)" — and,  in  short,  requesting  a 
sample  of  everything  the  jolly,  red-suited 
gentleman  had — Missy  did  look  at  a  few 
dolls.  But,  when  Jody  was  through,  she 
was  immediately  on  active  duty  again. 
"Now,  Mommy — you  go  get  the  car,"  she 
told  her  mother.  "Don't  worry  about  him." 
And,  when  Dinah  drove  up,  she  found 
Missy  holding  on  to  Jody  with  one  iron 
little  hand — and  holding  onto  a  post  with 
the  other,  firmly  anchoring  them. 

The  baby-sitting  is  a  labor  of  love  and 
a  family  contribution.  But,  recently.  Missy 
established  a  credit  system  for  such  regular 
chores  as  cleaning  her  room  and  picking 
up  her  clothes.  With  an  eye  toward  pro- 
moting a  raise  in  her  allowance.  Missy 
made  a  chart — and  gives  herself  a  gold 
star,  whenever  that  seems  in  order.  As 
her  mother  observes,  "she  didn't  do  too 
well  for  a  while — but,  toward  Christmas, 
she  improved  amazingly!"  Her  dad  gave 
her  an  automatic  raise  from  fifty  cents  to 
a  dollar,  the  chart  got  her  another  fifty 
cents  and,  by  Christmas,  Missy  had  saved 
eight  dollars  and  did  all  her  own  shopping 
for  the  family — at  the  five-and-ten. 

To  her  parents.  Missy's  is  somewhat  of 
a  mystery  chart,  but  she  herself  ex- 
periences no  difficulty.  The  other  day, 
noting  a  starred  item  labeled  "No  Sneak- 
ing of  Candy,"  Dinah  turned  to  her 
daughter  for  clarification.  "Now,  let's  get 
this  straight.  You  mean  you  get  a  gold 
star  if  you  don't  sneak  any  candy?"  she 
asked.  "Why,  yes,  Mommy,"  Missy  said 
patiently. 

Baby-sitting,  however,  never  appears 
there.  This  is  a  responsibility  for  which 
Missy  neither  credits  nor  discredits  her- 
self.   "Missy's    so    adorable    with    him," 


NEW 


Star 
Candids 


CANDIDS 


1.  Lana  Turner 

2.  Betty  Grable 

3.  Ava  Gardner 

5 .  Alan  Ladd 

6.  Tyrone  Power 

7.  Gregory  Peck 
9.  Esther  Williams 

11.  Elizabeth  Taylor 

14.  Cornel  Wilde 

15.  Frank  Sinatra 

18.  Rory  Calhoun 

19.  Peter  Lawford 
21.BobMitchura 

22.  Burt  Lancaster 

23.  Bing  Crosby 
25.  Dale  Evans 
27.  June  AUyson 

33.  Gene  Autry 

34.  Roy  Rogers 

35.  Sunset  Carson 

50.  Diana  Lynn 

5 1 .  Doris  Day 

52.  Montgomery  Clift 

53.  Richard  Widmark 

56.  Perry  Como 

57.  Bill  Holden 

66.  Gordon  MacRae 

67.  Ann  Blyth 

68.  Jeanne  Crain 

69.  Jane  RusselJ 
74.  John  Wayne 
78.  Audie  Murphy 
84.  Janet  Leigh 
86.  Farley  Granger 

91.  John  Derek 

92.  Guy  Madison 
94.  Mario  Lanza 
103.  Scott  Brady 

105.  Vic  Damone 

106.  Shelley  Winters 

107.  Richard  Todd 
109.  Dean  Martin 


110.  Jerry  Lewis 
112.  Susan  Hayward 
117.  Terry  Moore 
121.  Tony  Curtis 
124.  Gail  Davis 

127.  Piper  Laurie 

128.  Debbie  Reynolds 

135.  Jeff  Chandler 

136.  Rock  Hudson 

137.  Stewart  Granger 

139.  Debra  Paget 

140.  Dale  Robertson 

141.  Marilyn  Monroe 

142.  Leslie  Caron 

143.  Pier  Angeli 

144.  Mitzi  Gaynor 

145.  Marlon  Brando 

146.  Aldo  Ray 

147.  Tab  Hunter 

148.  Robert  Wagner 

149.  Russ  Tamblyn 

150.  Jeff  Hunter 

152.  Marge  and  Cow- 
er Champion 

174.  Rita  Gam 

175.  Charlton  Heston 

176.  Steve  Cochran 

177.  Richard  Burton 

179.  Julius  La  Rosa 

180.  Lucile  Ball 
182.  Jack  Webb 
185.  Richard  Egan 
187.  Jeff  Richards 

190.  Pat  Crowley 

191.  Robert  Taylor 

192.  Jean  Simmons 
194.  Audrey  Hepburn 
198.  Gale  Storm 
202.  George  Nader 
205.  Ann  Sothern 


207.  Eddie  Fisher 
209.  Liberace 

211.  Bob  Francis 

212.  Grace  Kelly 

213.  James  Dean 

214.  Sheree  North 

215.  Kim  Novak 

216.  Richard  Davalos 

218.  Eva  Marie  Saint 

219.  Natalie  Wood 

220.  Dewey  Martin 

221.  Joan  Collins 

222.  Jayne  Mansfield 

223.  Sal  Mineo 

224.  Shirley  Jones 

225.  Elvis  Presley 

226.  Victoria  Shaw 

227.  Tony  Perkins 

228.  Clint  Walker 

229.  Pat  Boone 

230.  Paul  Newman 

231.  Don  Murray 

232.  Don  Cherry 

233.  Pat  Wayne 

234.  Carroll  Baker 

235.  Anita  Ekberg 


236.  Corey  Allen 

237.  Dana  Wynter 

238.  Diana  Dors 

239.  Judy  Busch 

240.  Patti  Page 

241.  Lawrence  Welk 

242.  Alice  Lon 

243.  Larry  Dean 

244.  Buddy  Merrill 

245.  HughOBrian 

246.  Jim  Arness 

247.  Sanford  Clark 

248.  Vera  Miles 

249.  John   Saxon 

250.  Dean    Sfockwell 

251.  Diane  Jergens 

252.  Warren  Berlinger 

253.  James  MacArthur 

254.  Nick  Adams 

255.  John   Kerr 

256.  Harry  Belafonte 

257.  Jim  Lowe 

258.  Luana  Patten 

259.  Dennis  Hopper 

260.  Tom  Tryon 

261.  Tommy  Sands 


FILL    IN    AND    MAIL 
COUPON  TODAY! 


WORLD  WIDE,  DEPT.  RM-4-57 
112    Main   St.,    Ossining,    N.   Y. 

I   enclose  $ for   candid 

pictures  of  my  favorite  stars  and  have  circled 
the  numbers  of  the  ones  you  are  to  send  me 
by  return  mail. 

NAME 

STREET 

CITY 

ZONE..... STATE 

Fill  out  and  mail  coupon  today.  Send  cash 
or  money  order.  12  pictures  for  $1 ;  6  for  50c. 


T 
V 
R 

63 


Dinah  beams.  "And  Jody— well,  he  wor- 
ships her.  He  follows  her  everywhere.  If 
she  dances,  he  dances.  If  she  cries,  he  cries. 
He  can't  say  'Missy'  yet— he  calls  her  'Me- 
he'— but  he  makes  himself  generally  un- 
derstood." 

And  "Me-he"  assumes  her  share  of 
sisterly  disciplining,  too,  whenever  her 
little  brother  gets  out  of  hand.  As  her 
mother  says,  "If  Jody  messes  with  Missy's 
things,  she  lets  him  know  about  it." 

Missy  keeps  most  of  her  "untouchables" 
in  her  own  pretty  powder-blue  room  in 
the  elegant  free-form  modern  home  George 
Montgomery  designed  and  personally  built 
in  Beverly  Hills  for  his  family.  Jody's  gay 
nursery,  accented  with  bright  red  and 
peopled  with  stuffed  toys,  is  his  own 
little-boy-world.  Here  he  keeps  his  own 
special  treasures,  such  as  the  toy  Corvette 
he  keeps  within  reach  by  his  bed,  and  the 
wonderful  rocking  horse  his  dad  made 
him.  George  found  a  horse  from  an  old 
carousel,  finished  it  beautifully,  and 
mounted  it  on  a  metal  stand  which  swings 
back  and  forth.  Here  in  his  room,  a  de- 
lighted little  boy  rides  the  wind  on  a 
mighty  magic  steed. 

But  there  are  times,  in  their  joint  play- 
room upstairs,  when  the  worlds  of  a  two- 
year-old  and  a  nine-year-old  overlap.  The 
room  is  equipped  so  they  can  play  their 
respective  hearts  out.  They  have  individual 
wall-boards  "so  each  can  paste  whatever 
they  want  on  them."  Jody  has  a  window- 
seat  of  toys  on  one  side  of  the  room.  Missy 
has  a  chest  of  toys,  and  shelves  for  her 
horse  collection,  on  the  other  side.  If 
Jody's  busy  little  hands  get  into  her 
prized  china  dolls  or  her  horse  collection, 
he  gets  his  fingers  rapped  lightly. 

"Well — you're  not  supposed  to  touch  her 
things,"  hiis  mother  rules  neutrally,  when 
an  offended  Jody  comes  running  to  her. 
"His  eyes  get  big  as  saucers,  he  turns  this 
way  and  that — and  he  can't  find  an  ally 
anywhere.  Then  he  goes  away  somewhere 
and  hides  his  head.  When  he  comes  back 
a  minute  later,  it's  all  over  and  he's  full 
of  bubble  again,"  Dinah  says  softly.  "He's 
a  joy — this  Jody." 

There  is  also  the  way  he  shows  affection. 
"He  has  the  cutest  way  of  patting  you  on 
the  back  and  saying,  'Kiss  Mommy — Kiss 
Daddy,' "  sighs  Dinah.  "When  Jody  does 
this,  George  just  melts." 

At  such  times,  it's  of  small  moment 
whether  you  carry  a  child  close  to  your 
heart — or  whether  he  creeps  there.  Jody 
couldn't   be    closer,    either    way.    And    all 


the  problems  child  psychologists  expound 
about,  concerning  the  "adopted-versus- 
the-natural"  family,  seem  far,  far  away 

The  feeling  of  love  and  unity^  grows 
stronger,  month  by  month  and  year  by 
year.  And  the  feeling  of  "belonging"  grows 
along  with  their  family.  "Our  fifteen-year- 
old  niece.  Donna  Marie,  is  here  from 
Montana  spending  the  winter  with  us," 
says  Dinah,  "and  I  can't  wait  to  get  home 
to  see  what  the  three  of  them  are  doing." 

Despite  two  of  Hollywood's  most  de- 
manding careers,  Dinah  and  George  ar- 
range their  schedules  to  spend  a  maximum 
of  time  with  their  family.  In  addition  to 
constant  film  commitments,  George  Mont- 
gomery has  now  formed  his  own  pro- 
duction company.  He's  active  in  television, 
starring  in  such  dramatic  shows  as  The 
Alcoa  Hour,  Jane  Wyman  Show  and  others. 
He  also  owns  and  operates  a  very  suc- 
cessful furniture  factory  in  the  San  Fer- 
nando Valley. 

With  her  wealth  of  talent  and  energy, 
Dinah  Shore's  the  wonder  girl  of  tele- 
vision today.  The  Goliath  of  entertain- 
ment mediums,  which  eats  others  alive, 
seems  to  make  no  dent  on  Dinah.  She 
stars  in  her  own  fifteen-minute  show  each 
week,  over  NBC-TV,  and  an  hour-long 
Chevy  Show  each  month.  She  records  and 
makes  personal  appearances.  But  no  star 
spends  more  time  with  the  family. 

"We  try  to  let  nothing  interfere  with 
this,"  says  Dinah.  "But  that's  the  nice  thing 
about  television,"  she  adds.  "You  can  have 
more  time  with  your  family.  I  don't  have 
to  leave  to  go  to  the  studio  until  Jody's  up 
and  fed  and  about  to  take  his  nap.  I  usu- 
ally get  home  around  five-thirty,  and  we 
have  a  little  time  together  before  dinner. 
We  all  have  a  standing  date  for  dinner  at 
six  every  evening.  On  the  two  nights  I 
rehearse  my  monthly  show,  I  always  know 
George  will  be  there." 

There  are  certain  warm  family  observ- 
ances that  are  a  "must,"  too.  Every  eve- 
ning. Missy  puts  on  a  record  and  dances 
for  them — and,  for  her  parents,  this  is  a 
command  performance.  "In  the  afternoons, 
whenever  we  can,  we  have  a  little  'tea 
party.'  I  have  tea — the  children  have  milk 
and  cake.  On  Sunday  mornings,  George 
takes  them  over  to  the  merry-go-round. 
Later  we  go  to  the  club,  and  Missy  has 
her  own  group  of  young  friends  there.  We 
have  lunch,  we  play  tennis  if  we  feel  like 
it,  or  we  all  go  home  and  watch  tele- 
vision." 

When  they  gather  around  the  family  TV 


$1,000.00  REWARD 


T 

y 

R 

64 


...  is  offered  for  information  leading 
to  the  arrest  of  dangerous  "wanted" 
criminals.  Hear  details  about  the 
$1,000.00  reward  on  .  .  . 

TRUE  DETECTIVE  MYSTERIES 

Every    Monday    Evening   on    MUTUAL    Stations 


Model  agency  fronts  for  crime  ring.  Read  "The  Vice  Scandal 
That  Shocked  Philadelphia"  in  April  TRUE  DETECTIVE  maga- 
zine, now  at  all  newsstands. 


set,  Jody's  eager  gold-red  head  is  in  the 
front  row.  "Jody'll  watch  anything,"  his 
mother  says.  "But  we  usually  keep  the 
TV  set  turned  off  until  five-thirty  in  the 
evening.  I  think  it's  a  mistake  for  children 
to  depend  on  being  entertained  by  tele- 
vision all  the  time,  instead  of  learning  to 
entertain  themselves." 

Are  they  Dinah  Shore  fans?  "Well — I 
like  to  think  so.  They  came  to  the  studio 
for  one  of  my  'big  ones.'  Missy  loved  my 
dance  With  Trigger — and  Jody  had  eyes 
for  nobody  but  Dizzy  Dean.  Jody  doesn't 
get  to  see  the  hour  show  on  television — ^he's 
in  bed.  But  Missy's  very  much  awake.  She 
has  a  million  suggestions — 'Mommy,  you 
can  do  this,'  and  'Mommy,  why  don't  you 
do  that?'  And,  of  course,  I'U  never  really 
be  important  at  home — ^until  I  have  Elvis 
Presley  on  the  show.  That's  fifteen-year- 
old  Donna  Marie's  influence." 

But  Frances  Rose  Shore  is  home.  No 
doubt  about  that  today.  The  lonely  girl 
from  Tennessee,  who  was  born  with  so 
much  music  to  give  the  world,  has  found 
the  "togetherness,"  the  strength  of  family, 
she  sought.  All  the  warmth,  all  that  happy 
music,  which  so  endears  her  to  millions 
who  have  adopted  her  into  their  own  living 
rooms,  has  come  home  to  her  to  stay. 

She's  a  great  believer  in  that  old  truism: 
In  love,  there  is  strength.  And  she  believes 
love  will  also  provide  the  answers  for  any 
problems,  any  questions,  which  Missy  and 
Jody  may  occasion  either  today  or  later  on. 

"You  try  to  anticipate  the  vital  things, 
and  let  love — and  time — take  care  of  the 
rest,"  she  says.  "The  children  are  still  so 
young — you  can't  really  know  what  the 
problems  and  the  question  will  be.  It's 
hard  to  know." 

One  thing  sure,  "adopted"  is  already  a 
familiar  word  around  their  home.  "Jody's 
a  little  young  to  worry  about  this  yet,  but 
we  use  the  word  'adopted'  in  our  con- 
versation all  the  time — so  he'll  get  ac- 
customed to  it,  before  that  day  comes.  We 
want  him  to  be  so  used  to  the  word  that 
it  will  have  no  meaning — no  mystery — for 
him.  We  have  no  problem  there  iintil 
Jody's  seven  or  eight.  And,  by  that  time, 
we  hope  he  will  feel  so  secure,  and  be  so 
sure  of  our  love,  that  he  won't  question 
the  relationship.  That  he'll  just  know  his 
place  is  with  us.  That  this  is  where  he  be- 
longs." 

When  Jody  begins  the  questions  about 
being  adopted — if  he  ever  does — Dinah 
and  George  have  planned  what  they  will 
say  to  explain  that  he's  a  child  of  love  in 
his  own  way,  just  as  much  as  Missy  is  in 
hers.  They  have  a  love  story  all  written  in 
mind  for  him. 

"We  will  explain  to  Jody  that  Mommy 
and  Daddy  are  in  no  way  related  to  each 
other  by  blood.  That  Daddy's  from  Mon- 
tana, and  Mommy's  from  Tennessee.  Yet 
Mommy  and  Daddy  found  each  other  and 
loved  each  other  and  decided  they  made 
a  family.  Then  Missy  came  along,  and  she 
was  added  to  our  family.  Jody  came  along 
— and  he  wasn't  related  by  flesh  and  blood, 
just  as  Mommy  and  Daddy  aren't  related 
by  flesh  and  blood— but  by  love.  And  we 
added  him  to  our  family. 

"I  don't  know  whether  Jody  will  ask 
these  questions  or  not,"  Dinah  goes  on 
slowly.  "He  may  be  so  sure  of  our  love 
that  he  won't.  I  don't  know  whether  any 
of  these  things  wiU  happen.  But  if  they 
do — we  hope  we'll  know  how  to  handle 
them.  And  we  believe  that,  if  you  keep 
children  happy  and  secure,  if  they  know 
how  much  you  love  them — that's  the  im- 
portant thing." 

The  important  thing — as  a  lovely,  wide- 
eyed  little  girl  once  pointed  out,  when  she 
ordered  a  little  brother  or  sister  her  mother 
carried  "next  to  your  heart."  Wherever 
Dinah  Shore  is  today.  Missy  and  Jody  are 
never  farther  than  a  heart  away. 


Jim  Lowe  From  Springfield,  Mo. 


(Continued  from  page  30) 

Yet  he  began  his  own  round  of  per- 
sonal appearances  somewhat  with  the 
feeUng  of  "Oh  me,  oh  my,  can  this  be  I?" 
At  MinneapoUs,  he  had  a  ball  during  the 
Cerebral  Palsy  drive.  Girls  held  out  hands 
to  be  autographed  and,  after  Jim  had 
inked  a  signature,  demanded,  "Kiss  it." 
Jim  was  flattered,  the  girls  were  pleased, 
everyone  had  fun. 

A  supermarket's  gala  opening  on  Long 
Island  was  a  different  story.  Jim,  among 
other  WCBS  Radio  personalities,  had 
spoken  his  piece  and  was  crossing  a 
parking  lot  when  the  kids  surrounded 
him.  Their  autographing  session  was 
broken  up  by  an  over-obstreperous  chick. 
As  Jim  tells  it,  "She  must  have  taken  a 
hundred-yard  running  start.  When  she 
hit  me,  flat-handed,  between  the  shoul- 
der blades,  she  nearly  bowled  me  over.  As 
I  stimibled  into  the  crowd,  all  I  could 
think  was,  'Gosh,  I  hope  I  don't  hurt  any- 
body.' I  still  can't  figure  why  the  girl  did 
it." 

Jim  much  prefers  the  lady-like  girl  to 
the  wildcat.  "A  kid  can  be  hip  without 
being  rowdy."  He  likes  blue  jeans  and 
toreador  pants  "when  the  occasion  war- 
rants— but,  at  parties,  no.  Girls  look  so 
pretty  all  dressed  up  that  I  don't  think 
they  should  miss  the  opportunity.  Or  am 
I  being  an  idealist?" 

Jim's  eleven-year-old  niece,  Cindy,  re- 
ported her  observation  of  Jim's  relation- 
ship with  his  fans  in  a  letter.  "They're 
saying  here  that  Uncle  Jim  made  it  the 
hard  way,  without  sideburns." 

Jim  Lowe  was  born  in  Springfield,  Mis- 
souri, home  of  Ozark  Jubilee.  Proudly, 
he  calls  it,  "the  Paris  of  the  Ozarks."  He 
is  the  second  son  of  Dr.  H.  A.  Lowe,  Sr., 


and  Pearl  Lines  Lowe,  who  died  when 
Jim  was  two  years  old.  Dr.  Lowe  then 
married  vivacious  Bess  Rogers. 

He  had  a  happy  childhood.  "For  a  long 
time,  our  big  old  house  was  the  only  one 
in  the  block.  We  had  two  dogs,  a  bulldog 
and  a  scottie.  Something  was  happening 
all  the  time.  When  my  folks  sold  the  old 
house,  they  built  another  at  the  corner. 
Then,  when  my  brother  and  I  grew  up, 
they  moved  to  a  hotel."  But,  again,  it  is 
home  base.  "My  brother,  when  he  went 
into  practice  and  married,  bought  the  old 
house  back.  He  and  Alice — who  is  Aunt 
Alice  on  KYTV — have  two  daughters,  Lu- 
cinda  and  Melissa.  They  also  have  a  bull- 
dog and  a  scottie.  And  my  folks  bought 
a  house  just  down  the  block.  We're  back 
where  we  started." 

Both  boys  made  sick  calls  with  Dr. 
Lowe.  It  was  taken  for  granted  they 
would  become  physicians.  At  the  age  of 
seven,  Jim  balked.  "I  watched  an  opera- 
tion and  I  knew  medicine  wasn't  for 
me."  His  hangout  became  his  maternal 
grandfather's  Lines  Music  Company, 
which  then  had  a  three-storey  building, 
just  off  the  pubUc  square,  and  branches  in 
near-by  towns.  "On  the  first  floor,"  Jim 
recalls,  "there  was  a  stock  of  instruments, 
radios,  records  and  phonographs,  and  al- 
ways a  woman  at  a  piano  'demonstrating' 
sheet  music.  On  the  second  and  third 
floors,  there  was  a  forest  of  pianos — a  fine 
place  to  play  hide-and-seek."  Jim's  piano 
lessons  were  fairly  painless. 

The  store,  now  on  Jefferson  Street,  is 
still  in  the  family.  "After  my  grandfa- 
ther died,  my  Uncle  Mort  took  over  and 
today  his  son,  Mort,  Jr.,  runs  it.  Funny 
thing  happened  when  I  made  'Gambler's 
Guitar,'  my  first  hit  record.   The  promo- 


tion manager  came  to  me,  excited  about 
a  telegram  which  said  this  record  was  the 
greatest." 

Jim,  when  he  read  the  signature,  had 
to  grin.  He  also  had  to  say,  "I  hate  to 
tell  you  this,  but  that  man  who  signed  it 
— Mort  Lines,  Jr. — he's  my  cousin." 

Hickory  Hills  Country  Club  became  a 
second  home,  for  the  whole  family  loves 
golf.  His  mother  became  city  champion 
and  tri-state  champion.  Jim  was  so  ab- 
sorbed in  it,  he  paid  little  attention  to 
school  athletics.  When  "The  Green  Door" 
first  reached  the  hit  parade,  club  mem- 
bers hunted  up .  an  authentic  and  well- 
used  green  door,  autographed  it  in 
orange  paint  and  sent  it  to  Jim  at  WCBS 
in  New  York — express  collect.  During  his 
recent  trip  home,  they  celebrated  "Jim 
Lowe  Night."  Says  Jim,  "They  got  me 
over  to  the  piano,  yelled  'Surprise!'  and 
we  went  on  from  there." 

In  high  school,  he  made  National  Hon- 
or Society  and  took  part  in  dramatics. 
Their  class  plays  were  "You  Can't  Take 
It  With  You"  and  "Our  Town"  (Jim  was 
the  narrator) .  At  the  University  of  Mis- 
souri, he  enrolled  in  the  Journalism 
School  and  later  settled  on  a  political  sci- 
ence major.  "I  thought  I  might  want  to 
be  a  radio  commentator." 

His  choice  caused  no  family  consterna- 
tion. "Dad  was  a  theater  usher  while  he 
was  working  his  way  through  medical 
school,"  says  Jim.  "He  admits  he  has  a 
lot  of  ham  in  him,  too.  I  say  that  he's 
the  only  physician  who  also  is  an  A  &  R 
(artists'  and  repertoire)  man.  I  get  a  kick 
out  of  the  way  he  reads  Billboard  and 
Variety.  Dad  can  listen  to  a  recording  of 
mine  and  tell  right  away  whether  I've  got 
a  hit.     One  of  the  nicest  things  about  all 


for  busy  gals  who  cant 
takeIiours  to  make  up 


Who  has  time  these  days  for  elaborate  facial  care?  The  people 
who  write  the  articles  seem  never  to  have  needed  to  keep  a  house, 
husband,  and  baby  happy  all  at  the  same  time!  That's  why 
young  marrieds  find  Magic  Touch  make-up  so  wonderfully-ideal. 

No  muss  or  fuss— no  time  to  apply  (with  fingertips,  in  seconds)— 
and  no  look  of  the  "siren"  (how  many  sirens  change  diapers?). 
But  beauty,-  yes!  For  this  lightly-lovely  make-up  hides 
blemishes,  smooths  color  tone  and  glorifies  complexion.  And  more, 
it  protects  the  skin  as  you  wear  it,  lubricates  with  its  creamy 
richness,  ends  need  for  elaborate  bedtime  creamings. 

Here's  the  casually  beautiful,  elFortlessly-lovely  look  that 
goes  with  being  modern.  Magic  Touch  ( such  a  perfect  name ) 
at  all  variety  stores  and  better  drug 
stores-6  shades,  45^  or  $1.00.  Made 
for  people  like  you!  ...  by  Campana. 


The  Make-Up  of  Young  Moderns 


T 
V 
R 

65 


this  is  the  way  my  folks  have  enjoyed  it." 
Jim  claims  two  college  distinctions. 
The  first  was  his  role  in  the  Journalism 
School's  annual  musical,  The  Jay  Show. 
"It's  a  funny  thing,"  says  Jim.  "Those 
guys  could  write  the  greatest  copy.  But, 
when  it  came  to  singing  it,  they  had  to 
borrow  talent  from  other  departments.  I 
was  the  first  'J'  major  to  sing  the  lead 
since  Jane  Froman  was  a  student." 

He  was  a  commander — president — of  his 
fraternity,  Sigma  Nu.  "I  may  not  have 
been  the  best  commander  they  ever  had," 
says  Jim,  "but  I  can  tell  you  one  thing: 
Under  my  regime,  we  had  the  best  bands 
at  our  formals."  It  was  at  the  end  of  the 
"big  band"  era,  and  highly  original  econ- 
omies were  called  for  to  get  the  big 
names.  "We  didn't  take  the  girls  to  din- 
ner and  we  didn't  buy  them  flowers,  but 
when  they  heard  bands  like  Kay  Kyser, 
Johnny  Long,  Griff  Williams,  they  flipped. 
Often  it  would  end  in  a  jam  session.  Our 
own  guys  would  sit  in  and  we'd  go  on 
until  morning." 

In  the  aftermath  of  such  a  dance,  Jim 
made  his  move  toward  radio.  "I  was  lying 
on  my  bunk,  Indian-summer  lazy,  and 
sort  of  discontented.  An  announcer  was 
having  a  bad  time.  I  decided  I  could 
fluff  as  well  as  he  could,  so  I  got  up  and 
went  over  to  KFRU  to  see  Mahlon  Al- 
drich,  who  was  then  the  manager. 
Strangely  enough,  he  hired  me." 

During  the  simimer  vacation  following 
his  junior  year,  he  was  accepted  in  the 
NBC  Radio  Institute  in  Hollywood  and 
won  the  term  award.  His  first  full-time 
job  was  at  home  in  Springfield,  at  KWTO. 
Says  Jim,  "On  Ozark  Jubilee,  I  had  a 
chance  to  study  the  great  performers.  It's 
a  privilege  to  go  back  on  it  with  Red 
Foley  any  time  I  can  get  home." 

Ed  Burton,  from  Jim's  management 
firm,  makes  a  sharper  appraisal.  "It's  not 
generally  known,  but  Jim  is  both  a  great 
balladeer  and  somewhat  oi  an  authority 
on  American  music  in  the  pop,  country 
and  jazz  fields.  He  can  tell  you  what  part 
of  the  country  a  tune  came  from,  who 
first  recorded  it,  what  year,  and  who 
played  every  instrument." 

Indianapolis  and  WIRE  were  next  on 
Jim's  itinerary.  "It  sharpened  me  up," 
says  Jim.  "I  had  to  compete  with  that 
native  Hoosier  humor."  Moving  to  Chi- 
cago and  WBBM,  Jim  found  opportunity 
— and  disaster.  Opportunity,  because  it 
was  a  key  CBS  station,  staffed  with  peo- 
ple of  great  imagination  and  talent.  Jack 
Sterling,  Dave  Moore,  Skee  Wolff  and 
others  now  in  the  national  spotlight  were 
there.  Standards  were  high.  Jim's  in- 
formal, bright  comment  just  suited  Chi- 
cago, and  Chicago  suited  Jim. 

The  disaster  became  a  classic.  Every 
major  station  has  the  apochryphal  story 
about  the  popular  announcer  who  is  sup- 
posed to  have  followed  a  funny-paper 
reading  session  by  stating,  into  an  inad- 
vertently open  mike,  a  rude  opinion  of 
the  little  monsters. 

At  WBBM,  worse  really  happened.  It 
was  New  Year's  Day,  the  Rose  Bowl  game 
was  being  piped  in,  three  announcers  and 
three  engineers  were  standing  by.  The 
mike  was  open  in  preparation  for  a  sta- 
tion break.  Some  one  expressed  an  opin- 
ion— profanely.  Among  the  shocked  Chi- 
cagoans  who  heard  them  was  the  station 
owner,  the  colorful,  able,  but  explosive 
Leslie  Atlas.  With  two  phone  calls,  he 
summoned  replacements  and  fired  every- 
one on  duty — as  of  that  minute. 

Jim,  who  actually  had  been  across  the 
street  having  coffee  when  the  debacle  oc- 
curred, consoled  himself  by  sitting  in  the 
Florida  svm  for  a  month  and  then  going 
to  Hollywood.  "Hollywood  never  noticed," 
he  says  tersely. 

Back   in   Chicago,   he  was  welcomed   at 


WMAQ,  the  NBC  station.  "Q"  Radio  was 
already  past  its  peak,  but  WNBQ^the 
television  station,  was  on  fire.  Sonie  one 
has  said,  "For  one  thirty-seconds  in  tele- 
vision time,  it  looked  as  though  Chicago 
was  going  to  be  the  place."  Kukla,  Fran 
And  Ollie  were  a  daily  delight;  Garroway 
At  Large  was  setting  a  new  pattern  in 
"relaxed"  entertainment;  Hawkins  Falls 
was  pioneering  daytime  drama;  Zoo  Pa- 
rade showed  what  wonders  could  be 
found  on  a  remote.  Directors  and  techni- 
cal staffs  substituted  ingenuity  for  dol- 
lars. CBS  was  in  the  television  picture 
via  WBKB,  and  WENR-TV  was  the  ABC 
origination  point.  The  networks  were  tak- 
ing Chicago  programs. 

Jim,  officially  a  radio  announcer,  caught 
a  few  TV  assignments.  He  was  new.  He 
was  young,  even  in  that  crowd  of  boy 
wonders.  He  searched  for  a  way  to  claim 
attention. 

He  found  it  in  his  song-writing.  The 
unpublished  songs  in  Jim  Lowe's  per- 
sonal files  could  keep  a  recording  com- 
pany going  for  a  year.  Art  Talmage,  at 
Mercury,  gave  his  "Gambler's  Guitar"  a 
hearing  and  they  released  Jim's  cut  of 
it  in  the  country-and-Western  field. 
Rusty  Draper  made  the  pop  version  and 
it  became  a  hit.  Jim  cut  a  few  other  rec- 
ords for  them,  but  nothing  really  took  off. 
(These  are  now  to  be  re-issued  in  an 
album.) 

Then  Chicago  TV  reached  its  crisis. 
Some  network  shows  were  cancelled. 
Others  moved.  The  exodus  was  on. 

Jim  came  to  New  York  in  1954.  He 
would  concentrate  on  his  song-writing, 
he  decided.  He  never  got  past  the  re- 
volving door  of  the  Brill  Building.  He 
says,  "For  a  solid  year,  nothing  happened. 


The  votes  are  in!  The  winners? 
See  TV  RADIO  MIRROR 

MAY  AWARDS  ISSUE 

Af  your  newsstand  April  4 


My  money  was  going  fast,  and  my  nerve 
was  dropping  faster.  It  got  so  I  made  out 
a  daUy  schedule  for  myself,  and  often  the 
only  entry  would  be  '9:15  A.M.,  take 
clothes  to  the  laundromat.'  My  first  break 
came  when  I  wrote  a  song  I  figured  was 
right  for  Eddie  Arnold  and  took  it  to  his 
managers'  office." 

"The  three  men  he  met  there  changed 
his  career.  Joe  Csida  is  a  former  editor 
of  Billboard  and  was  later  A  &  R  man  for 
RCA  Victor;  Charlie  Grean  had  followed 
Joe  at  Victor  and  had  also  written  such 
novelty  hits  as  "The  Thing"  and  "Sweet 
Violets."  Ed  Burton  had  been  at  Hill  & 
Range  Music  before  joining  up.  They 
believed  Jim's  immediate  future  was 
brighter  in  singing  than  in  song-writing. 
On  their  advice,  he  gambled  most  of  his 
remaining  capital  on  a  free-lance  record- 
ing session.  Smart  Randy  Wood,  head  of 
Dot  Records,  took  "Close  the  Door, 
They're  Coming  in  the  Window."  Jim 
calls  it,  "A  mild  hit." 

Since  Jim's  a  worrier,  it  was  a  far  from 
comfortable  period.  Record  royalties  are 
paid  quarterly.  Cash  was  scarce.  He  was 
deep  in  the  blues  the  day  he  encountered 
another  young  singer  who  had  been  hot 
in  Chicago  but  was  finding  Manhattan 
less  than  enthusiastic.  Bill  Snary — billed 
"Bill  Carey"  professionally — and  Jim  de- 
cided to  join  forces.  Bill  says,  "Both  of 
us  had  dismal  hotel  rooms.  Together,  we 
could  afford  an  apartment  and  live  better." 

That  apartment,  on  Fifty-Fifth  Street, 
doubtless  is  destined  to  be  surrounded  by 


as  many  stories  as  the  one  which  Marlon 
Brando  and  Wally  Cox  once  shared.  Jim 
and  Bill  borrowed  two  cots  from  the 
landlady,  and  moved  in.  They  borrowed 
a  chair  from  Jim's  managers.  "We  didn't 
get  it  back  for  a  year,"  says  Ed  Burton. 

They  borrowed  clothes  from  each  other. 
Bill,  who  is  of  the  same  size  and  build  but 
is  as  dark  as  Jim  is  fair,  says,  "First  it  was 
the  laundry  that  got  things  mixed  up.  I'd 
discover  I  was  wearing  one  of  Jim's  shirts 
and  vice  versa."  Jim  says,  "It  was  a 
nuisance  until  we  realized  it  doubled  our 
wardrobes.  Whichever  one  had  an  im- 
portant appointment  got  first  choice." 

By  far  the  most  interesting  feature  of 
the  apartment  was  the  neighbors.  Says 
Bill,  "We'd  be  working  on  a  song,  and 
we'd  hear  these  girls'  voices  on  the  other 
side  of  the  wall  .  .  ."  Says  Jim,  "We 
counted  four  of  them  and  decided  it  was 
time  to  make  ourselves  known." 

How  did  they  accomplish  the  meeting? 
Jim  grins  at  the  question.  "Out  where  I 
come  from,  you  can  always  borrow  a  cup 
of  sugar." 

"And  that's  exactly  what  they  did,"  says 
Marie  WoUscheid.  "We,  being  neighborly, 
gave  it  to  them.  It  was  the  start  of  a 
beautiful  friendship." 

Marie,  Barbara  Avallone  and  Barbara 
Wood  are  secretaries.  The  fourth  girl. 
Sue  Spurier,  an  actress,  later  departed  to 
play  the  Florida  winter-stock  circuit. 

For  two  young  men  alone  on  Manhat- 
tan, having  such  neighbors  was  a  happy 
break.  "I  wouldn't  call  either  one  of  them 
really  handy  around  a  house,"  says 
Marie.  "Bill  can  turn  out  a  good  steak  and 
salad,  but  Jim's  top  is  boiling  an  egg. 
When  we  knew  he  was  going  to  be  home 
alone,  we'd  always  set  an  extra  plate." 

Says  Jim,  "Those  girls  are  wonderful. 
Having  them  invite  us  in  to  dinner  was 
fine,  but  it  mattered  even  more  to  us  to 
know  we  had  some  one  to  see,  some  one 
to  talk  to  on  evenings  we  couldn't  afford 
to  go  out.  And  some  one  to  take  with  us 
when  we  did  go  on  the  town." 

Jim  was  fending  off  the  well-known 
wolf-at-the-door  with  club  dates.  An 
early  one  was  at  the  Lotus  Club,  Wash- 
ington, D.  C,  which  specializes  in  good 
chow  mein  and  good  entertainment.  On 
arrival,  his  spirits  were  dashed.  "You 
Jim  Lowe?"  said  the  manager.  "We 
thought  we  were  getting  a  Chinese  boy." 

The  solution  to  his  professional  prob- 
lem came  through  the  combined  forces  of 
the  Csida  office,  MCA,  and  a  packager, 
Gordon  Auchincloss.  They  put  Jim  on 
WCBS,  the  CBS  key  station  in  New  York, 
for  a  nine  A.M.  daily  radio  show  on 
which  he  spins  records,  talks  a  bit,  and 
finishes  by  singing  one  song  to  his  own 
accompaniment.  A  similar  Saturday- 
afternoon  session  keeps  him  in  touch  with 
his  teen-age  fans.  "When  I  got  that,  I  fig- 
ured I  was  living  again,"  says  Jim. 

Last  year,  as  May  approached,  Jim  be- 
gan to  feel  something  was  due  to  happen. 
"It's  my  lucky  month,"  he  explains.  "I 
was  born  in  May,  graduated  from  college 
in  May,  got  my  first  full-time  job  in  May, 
went  to  WIRE  in  Indianapolis  and  to 
WBBM  in  Chicago  in  May,  recorded 
'Gambler's  Guitar'  in  May,  and  first  saw 
'The  Green  Door'  in  May  ..." 

"The  Green  Door"  written  by  Bob 
Davie  and  Marvin  Moore,  and  destined  to 
be  so  important  in  Jim's  career,  got 
plenty  of  personal-life  competition.  Jim's 
parents  were  in  town,  and  with  Marilyn 
Lovell,  a  pretty  young  singer  who  has 
been  one  of  Jim's  special  friends  since 
they  were  both  at  WNBQ,  they  had  a 
round  of  sightseeing  planned.  Marilyn 
couldn't  attend  his  recording  session — she 
had  one  of  her  own  scheduled — but  Dr. 
and  Mrs.  Lowe  were  present.  Says  Jim, 
"We  were  in  a  hxirry.  We  had  tickets  for 
'My    Fair    Lady' — those    almost-unobtain- 


able  tickets — and  we  didn't  want  to  be 
late."  But  Jim  was  happy  and  his  exuber- 
ance carried  into  his  voice.  "I  did  three 
takes,  then  I  saw  that  look  on  Dad's  face 
and  I  knew  I  had  it." 

Although  Dot  Records'  release  of  "The 
Green  Door"  has  sold  more  than  two  mil- 
lion copies,  Jim  refers  to  his  new  apart- 
ment on  fashionable  Sutton  Place  as  "the 
house  that  CBS  built,"  and  explains  he 
found  it  before  the  big  royalties  came  in. 
"Joe  Csida  was  helping  me  look  for  an 
apartment  and,  when  I  saw  the  green 
door,  I  flipped.  I  was  sold  before  I  ever 
saw  the  place." 

It  fulfills  its  promise.  The  living  room 
is  thirty-two  feet  long,  the  kitchen  has 
every  modern  appliance,  the  bedroom  is 
huge.  The  windows  provide  a  magnifi- 
cent view  of  the  East  River.  Off  the  din- 
ing area  there  is  also  a  small  balcony 
which   Jim    joyfully    calls    "the   veranda." 

The  move  was  accomplished  with  the 
help  of  Jim's  feminine  neighbors  and  Bill 
Carey,  whose  own  career  was  shortly  to 
take  him  to  the  Coast.  "I  guess  my  folks 
were  too  good  to  me  when  I  was  a  kid," 
Jim  confesses.  "I  always  expect  some  one 
to  turn  up  to  help  me  out.  By  myself,  I 
can  get  into  the  darnedest  messes  .  .  ." 

It  was  par  for  the  course  that  Jim,  in 
moving,  should  draw  a  cold  and  rainy 
day.  When  the  movers  had  taken  out 
their  load,  Jim  still  had  things  to  gather 
up.  Just  outside  the  door  of  the  elegant 
new  place,  rain  soaked  through  the  box 
he  was  carrying  and  the  bottom  fell  out. 
"There  I  was,"  says  Jim,  "scooping  up 
shaving  cream,  toothbrushes  and  neckties 
from  the  sidewalk  just  when  everyone  in 
the  block  was  walking  a  blue-ribbon 
poodle." 

Bachelor-type  troubles  also  assaulted 
him  when  he  purchased  his  carpeting — 
green,  of  course.  "I  was  feeling  my  oats. 
I  had  just  been  on  The  Steve  Allen  Show, 
and  it  turned  out  that  the  people  at  this 
store  had  seen  me  and  that  their  kids 
had  my  records.  We  were  getting  along 
so  well,  and  that  carpet  was  so  soft  and 
thick,  I  guess  I  got  carried  away.  I  asked 
if  they  would  mind  if  I  took  ofE  my  shoe 
and  stepped  on  it.  I  said  sometimes  I 
liked  to  go  barefoot  at  home.  Well,  I 
wasn't  home,  but  I  was  barefoot — or  near- 
ly. I  kicked  off  a  shoe  and  saw  I  had  a 
hole  in  my  stocking.  I  quick  slipped  it 
back  on  and  tried  the  other  one.  That 
not  only  had  a  hole,  the  entire  toe  was 
out  and  peeled  back.  I  said,  'Pardon  me.' 
They  said,  'That's  all  right.'  We  all 
cringed.  It  wasn't  until  the  next  day 
that  I  was  able  to  think  of  gags  I  should 
have  said,  like,  'These  are  my  special 
carpet-feeling   socks.' " 

By  now,  domestic  difficulties  have 
abated.  The  bedroom  is  fturnished  in  black 
walnut,  modern,  square-cut,  and  mas- 
sively masculine.  Drapes  are  white,  with 
gold  and  black  figures.  There's  a  huge, 
white,  kidney-shaped  coffee  table  and,  bit 
by  bit,  he  is  finding  other  furnishings  he 
wants.  Jim  is  his  own  decorator.  "It's  a 
challenge  and  I'm  getting  a  great  kick  out 
of  it." 

And  he  is  getting  a  kick  out  of  life. 
Two  new  recordings  are  in  the  presses. 
New  shows  are  being  discussed.  Friends 
drop  in  to  see  the  new  apartment  and 
stay  for  conversation  and  music.  There  is 
no  "serious"  romance  on  the  horizon,  but 
there  are  a  number  of  girls  Jim  likes  and 
who  like  him.  Eligible  James  Lowe,  Es- 
quire, is  happily  at  home  behind  the  green 
door. 


GIVE— 

Strike  back  at  CANCER 


GnEATEST 
TV  R&SIO 

ANNUAL 
EVER 


NOW 

ON 

SALE 


The  big,  new  1957  edition  of 
TV-Radio  Annual  is  the  great- 
est ever!  It's  got  everything. 
It  covers  all  the  events  and  all 
the  history-making  moments  of 
all  the  great  shows  and  pro- 
grams of  the  year. 


Here  are  pictures,  as  well  as 
thumbnail  descriptions  of  all 
the  stars.  Here  are  the  behind- 
the-scenes  stories  of  ail  the 
new  shows.  Here  is  news  .  .  . 
gossip  and  chit-chat  from 
coast  to  coast.  In  short,  here 
is  the  most  colorful  and  excit- 
ing book  imaginable. 


TV  RADIO   MIRROR  Dept.  TS-457 

205  E.  42  St..  New  York  17.  N.  Y. 

Send    me    TV-RADIO    ANNUAL    1957.    I    en- 
close  50c. 

Name 

Please    Print 

Address 

City State 


Favorite  Stars 
Favorite  Programs 
News  of  the  Year 
Pictures  Galore 
Life  Stories 


I7j7     edition 
on  sale  now  at 

ALL  NEWSSTANDS 


Get  your  copy  of  this  great  Annual 
from  your  newsdealer  now.  Only  50*. 
This  yearbook  sells  out  as  soon  as  It 
Is  placed  on  sale — so  hurry.  If  your 
newsdealer  is  sold  out,  mail  coupon 
with  50<>  today. 


67 


(Continued  from  page  34) 
pretended  joy  for  him,  though  she  felt  her 
heart  was  standing  still. 

"Live  for  today,"  Loretta  has  always 
said,  "not  for  yesterday,  not  for  tomorrow." 
More  than  that,  she  believes  in  living  each 
moment  as  fully,  tenderly  and  exquisitely 
as  possible.  For  her,  the  day  is  not  some- 
thing divided  into  twenty-four  parts — 
some  of  which  can  be'  carelessly  thrown 
away.  To  her,  a  day  is  full  of  seconds  and 
moments,  aU  of  which  are  precious  and  to 
be  treated  reverently. 

Loretta  doesn't  mean  that  one  should 
never  take  the  time  to  watch  a  beautiful 
sky,  or  sit  still  in  meditation.  She  doesn't 
challenge  the  poet  who  wrote:  What  is 
this  life  if,  full  of  care,  We  have  no  time  to 
stand  and  stare? 

"If  a  woman  spent  a  whole  day  staring 
at  the  sky,  and  found  spiritual  peace  that 
way,  she'd  be  spending  that  time  very 
well,"  said  Loretta.  "I'd  call  that  'living 
for  today.'  Anne  Lindbergh  wasn't  wast- 
ing time,  when  she  went  down  to  the  sea- 
shore, and  spent  those  days  alone,  studying 
the  seashells  and  trying  to  grow  in  imder- 
standing  the  real  purpose  of  her  life." 

We  were  sitting  in  the  living  room  of 
the  Tom  Lewis  home  in  Hollywood.  It  is  a 
beautiful  room,  its  decor  Chinese  modern. 
Sunlight  poured  through  the  plate-glass 
windows,  onto  the  bookshelves  which  com- 
pletely fill  one  wall  from  floor  to  ceiling. 
It  fell  gently  on  exquisite  antiques,  brought 
out  the  glossy  green  hue  of  a  little  ivy 
plant. 

The  sunlight  also  brought  out  coppery 
lights  in  Loretta's  dark  brown  hair.  Loretta 
looked  exquisitely  feminine  in  a  powder- 
blue  dress,  with  her  hair  drawn  straight 
back  and  swirled  close  in  back.  It  was  hard 
to  remember  that  this  radiant,  sun-tanned 
girl  is  one  of  the  most  intelligent,  most  pro- 
fessional actresses  in  Hollywood.  Toward 
acting  and  toward  living,  she  has  an  ap- 
proach that  is  a  rare  combination  of  mas- 
culine directness  and  feminine  subtlety. 
In  her  own  living  room,  Loretta  is  very 
much  like  the  girl  who  sweeps  gracefully 
onto  your  television  screen.  The  hostess  of 
The  Loretta  Young  Show  is  truly  Loretta. 
Like  Loretta,  she  likes  to  tell  upbeat  stories, 
neatly  packaged  with  bright  quotations. 
Loretta  Young  loves  quotations!  One  of 
her  favorites  was  written  in  her  guest  book 
by  a  priest  she  admires  greatly.  A  mission- 
ary, he  had  rescued  some  of  Doolittle's  fly- 
ers from  the  Chinese  Communists.  "He's 
the  happiest  man  I  know,"  she  says.  "He 
hasn't  a  miaterial  possession  in  the  world. 
Once,  I  wanted  to  give  him  a  book.  He 
shook  his  head.  'Every  six  months,'  he 
said,  'I  give  away  everything  I  own.  I'd 
only  have  to  give  it  away  in  six  months.' " 
To  this  brave  man,  Loretta  owes  the 
quotation  which  has  become  the  heart  of 
her  philosophy:  Give  us  the  strength  to 
accept  with  serenity  the  things  that  can- 
not be  changed:  give  us  the  courage  to 
change  the  things  that  can  and  should  he 
changed:  give  tis  the  wisdom  to  distinguish 
the  one  from  the  other. 

By  inclination  and  training,  Loretta  is  a 
perfectionist.  The  perfectionism  had  its 
roots  when  she  was  only  a  child — trying, 
at  fourteen,  to  play  a  mature  woman.  She 
knew  so  little  about  life  and  love  that, 
when  she  had  to  play  a  love  scene  with 
Nils  Asther,  she  heaved  her  chest  up  and 
down,  thinking  that  indicated  great  emo- 
tion. Finally  Nils  said  to  her,  ever  so  kind- 
ly, "Look,  child.  Just  look  at  me — as 
^  though  I  were  the  largest,  gooiest,  most 
beautiful  ice-cream  sundae  you  ever 
drooled  over." 

Loretta  was  rescued  from  her  insecurity 
as  an  actress    by  Frank  Capra,  when  she 
68 


Live  For  Todav 

was  making  a  picture  for  him.  "What  do 
you  think  of  this  character,  Loretta?"  he 
asked  her.  "Think?"  she  murmured.  "I 
never  think  about  the  characters  I  play.  I 
just  try  to  do  what  the  director  says." 

"Loretta,"  he  said  gently.  "Little  Loretta, 
you  mtist  learn  to  think.  Your  opinions 
are  important.  Acting  isn't  doing  jtist 
what  the  director  says.  It's  deciding  what 
the  character  you're  playing  would  do, 
and  then  doing  just  that."  So  it  was  Frank 
Capra  who  slew  the  dragons  of  Loretta's 
uncertainties — and  released  her  artistry  as 
an  actress. 

The  years  went  by,  and  Loretta  became 
an  accomplished,  polished  actress.  But  as 
a  young  teen-age  girl,  she  was  uncertain, 
not  too  sure  of  herself,  a  little  giddy  with 
success.  One  day,  the  Reverend  Pat  Ward, 
a  Jesuit  priest  who  often  had  dinner  at  the 
home  which  Loretta — whose  real  name  is 
Gretchen — shared  with  her  mother  and 
sisters,  spoke  to  her  very  sternly.  He  didn't 
speak  as  one  usually  does  to  a  star,  care- 
fully avoiding  criticism — but  honestly,  can- 
didly. 

"You're  living  at  much  too  fast  a  pace, 
Gretchen,"  he  said.  "Did  it  ever  occur  to 
you  that  God  didn't  give  you  your  talent, 
your    beauty,    just   to    delight   your    ego? 


GET  YOUR 

POLIO 
SHOTS 

THIS 
SPRING.. 


THE  NATIONAL  FOUNDATION  FOR  INFANTILE  PARALYSIS 


These  are  great  gifts— you  are  bound  to 
them  as  much  as  they  to  you.  And,  in  your 
position,  you  are  bound  to  be  an  example. 
Whether  you  like  it  or  not,  you'll  be  an 
example.  You  dare  not  be  a  had  example." 

Some  more  years  went  by.  Loretta,  the 
impulsive,  wide-eyed,  eager  child,  became 
Loretta,  the  beautiful,  disciplined  woman. 
She  learned  to  live  completely  in  the 
present.  "I  do  not  believe  in  wasting  the 
present  in  remorse  about  the  past  or  in 
worries  about  the  future,"  she  said.  "My 
heart  aches  for  those  who  swing  madly  on 
an  eternal  trapeze,  between  regrets  for  the 
past  and  fears  for  the  future. 

"I  know  a  woman  who  used  to  worry 
continually  for  fear  she'd  become  ill.  One 
day  her  fear  came  true.  Then  she  went 
through  a  real  agony  of  worry  for  fear 
she'd  lose  her  job.  Eventually,  she  recov- 
ered. And  she  went  back  to  work.  But 
there  was  still  no  serenity  in  her.  Because 
now  she  worried  right  back  where  she 
started,  with  fear  she  would  become  ill 
again! 

"The  present  never  has  any  meaning  to 
her.  She  whines  about  the  past;  she  frets 
about  the  future.  There's  no  happiness  in 


her — past,  present  or  future.  'If  only  I 
hadn't  become  iU,'  she  moans.  She's  in 
perfect  health,  but  she  doesn't  really  enjoy 
it.  She's  got  a  wonderful  job,  but  she 
doesn't  get  any  kick  out  of  it.  And  the 
future  she  stews  over  is  a  pretty  dreary 
prospect,  too!" 

Loretta  never  worries  about  her  health. 
She's  always  taken  it  for  granted.  But, 
when  she's  ill — as  she  was  a  couple  of 
years  ago,  for  four  pain-ridden  months — 
she  asks  herself  what  lessons  God  means 
her  to  learn  from  her  illness.  And  she  tries, 
humbly,  to  learn  them. 

When  she  recovers,  she  sits  on  top  of 
the  world  again,  enjoying  each  blessed 
moment.  "A  complainer,  a  worrier,  she  is 
not,"  says  a  close  friend.  "You  know  how 
many  women  whine  about  their  troubles. 
Never,  no  matter  what  problems  she's  had 
to  cope  with,  have  I  heard  Loretta  whine. 
When  she  has  a  problem  to  face,  she  never 
yackety-yackety-yacks  about  it,  as  most  of 
us  do.  She  has  great  reticence.  She  wraps 
herself  in  her  silences.  When  the  problem 
is  real  tough,  I've  seen  her  disappeeir  sud- 
denly from  a  room,  with  her  rosary  in  her 
hand.  To  God,  and  God  alone,  does  she  un- 
burden herself — and,  from  Him,  seek  the 
answer  to  what  troubles  her." 

Loretta  likes  the  old  English  proverb: 
For  every  evil  under  the  sun  There  is  a 
remedy,  or  there  is  none.  If  there  he  one, 
try  and  find  it;  If  there  be  none,  never 
mind  it. 

When  she  was  first  married  to  Tom 
Lewis,  even  then  a  brilliant  advertising 
man,  Loretta  knew  some  uncertainties  in 
her  role  as  a  young  wife.  Of  course  she 
wanted  to  be  a  perfect  wife  and  hostess. 
The  Tom  Lewises  love  people,  love  their 
friends,  and  they  decided  to  give  a  series 
of  dinner  parties. 

For  Loretta,  these  parties  were  as  seri- 
ously important  as  her  Ccireer.  She  intended 
for  them  to  be  perfect  in  every  detail.  On 
the  first  one,  she  worried  about  her  guest 
list.  She  worried  about  whether  or  not 
she'd  succeed  in  seating  her  guests  prop- 
erly. She  worried  for  fear  she'd  forget  to 
invite  some  guest  to  whom  she  owed  a 
social  or  business  obligation. 

How  could  she  be  sure  that  everything 
at  the  dinners  would  be  perfect?  Would 
the  meat  be  done  perfectly?  Would  the 
wine  be  served  at  just  the  correct  temper- 
ature? Would  it  be  just  the  right  wine? 
And  what  about  the  silver,  the  linens,  the 
centerpiece?  Would  each  of  these  be  per- 
fect? 

By  the  time  the  dinner  hour  arrived, 
Loretta  was  a  bundle  of  nerves.  A  real 
hostess-tension  victim. 

At  last  the  dinner  was  over;  the  last 
guest  gone.  Loretta  turned  to  her  husband. 
"Tom,  how  was  it?" 

He  smiled,  and  then  he  gave  Loretta  the 
shock  of  her  life.  "Everything  was  perfect," 
he  said,  "except  you!" 

Loretta  turned  pale.  "Tom,"  she  said, 
"what  do  you  mean?" 

"You  planned  and  executed  a  perfect 
party,"  he  explained.  "But  you  were  so 
jittery,  you  were  the  only  off-key,  im- 
perfect part  of  the  whole  evening.  It 
would  have  been  a  far  more  enjoyable  ex- 
ample of  hospitality  if  the  meat  had  been 
overdone,  the  wine  wrong — and  at  the 
wrong  temperature — the  linen  wrinkled, 
the  china  cracked.  Our  guests  couldn't 
have  cared  less  about  those  things.  They 
did  care  that  their  hostess  wasn't  enjoying 
their  company.  You  were  so  anxious,  they 
couldn't  enjoy  themselves,  either." 

Loretta  was  crushed.  But  she  accepts 
just  criticism  quickly.  She  knew  this  was 
just.  She  pondered  every  word  Tom  had 
said.  Her  next  dinner  party  was  a  brilliant 


success.  Something  went  wrong  with  the 
linens.  But  Loretta  was  having  such  a  good 
time  at  her  own  party,  no  one  noticed  that 
not  all  the  napkins  were  exactly  alike. 

"Today,"  Loretta  laughs,  "television  takes 
up  so  much  of  our  time  that  we're  lucky 
if  we  can  give  a  half-dozen  dinner  parties 
a  year.  When  we  do  give  them,  I  never 
worry  about  details.  I  do  know  that,  if  I 
have  a  good  time  and  'go'  to  my  own  party, 
my  guests  will  have  a  good  time,  too." 

To  Loretta,  there  is  a  simple  solution  for 
every  problem.  Literal-minded,  she  some- 
times greatly  over-simplifies  a  problem. 
Take  her  entrance  into  television,  for  in- 
stance. She  fell  in  love  with  TV  when  she 
and  Tom  bought  their  first  television  set 
at  an  auction  given  for  the  benefit  of  their 
favorite  charity,  St.  Anne's  Maternity  Hos- 
pital for  Unmarried  Mothers. 

Soon  the  whole  family  was  enchanted  by 
such  "visitors"  as  Hopalong  Cassidy, 
Arthur  Godfrey,  Ted  Mack,  Kate  Smith 
and  other  TV  pioneers. 

"What  fun  they  must  have  visiting!" 
said  Loretta.  "I'd  like  to  go  visiting  in 
hundreds  of  thousands  of  homes,  just  as 
they  do.  This  is  so  exciting,  so  intimate, 
like  floating  right  into  other  people's  living 
rooms.  And,  seriously,  I  think  it  is  more 
challenging  than  motion  pictures.  TV's 
going  to  be  in  every  home — and  forever!" 

One  day  Loretta  said  to  Tom,  dreamily, 
"I'm  going  to  be  on  television.  I've  made 
up  my  mind." 

Tom  actually  shared  her  faith  and  vision 
regarding  the  new  medium,  even  while  he 
wondered  if  Loretta  would  be  able  to  ad- 
just to  it.  It's  no  easy  task,  trying  to 
achieve — in  a  week  of  rehearsals  and  shoot- 
ing— the  perfection  that  it  takes  the  movie- 
makers months  to  achieve.  And,  knowing 
Loretta's  own  perfectionist  tendencies, 
Tom  was  afraid  that  TV  might  cause  too 
much  tension  in  her.  How  would  she  ad- 


just to  the  difficult  grind  of  making  thirty- 
nine  TV  shows  a  year?  At  the  accelerated 
pace  of  TV? 

Loretta  grinned.  "If  you'd  produce  the 
show,  I  know  everything  would  be  per- 
fect," she  said  serenely.  And,  forthwith, 
she  told  her  agents  not  to  accept  any  movie 
commitments  for  her,  but  to  start  looking 
at  once,  for  a  TV  series. 

Months  went  by.  There  were  conferences 
and  more  conferences.  Finally  Loretta 
wearied  of  them.  She  likes  action,  not 
dawdling,  not  talking.  She  drove  to  her 
agency  offices.  "What  are  we  waiting  for?" 
she  asked. 

"We  have  to  have  a  perfect  pilot  script," 
they  said. 

"Well,  then,  get  a  script." 

They  tried  to  explain  that  scripts  don't 
grow  on  trees,  like  so  many  leaves,  or  get 
self-sown,  like  white  alyssum  in  the  gar- 
den. Loretta  wasn't  listening.  This  was 
now;  this  was  today;  this  was  the  time  to 
get  going.  "Let's  go!"  she  said.  "Get  a  script 
and  let's  go."  They  did,  miraculously.  And 
the  pilot  was  filmed,  and  sold,  in  four 
weeks. 

Loretta  had  achieved  her  dream.  She 
could  go  visiting  via  TV  every  Sunday 
evening. 

Since  then,  Loretta  has  learned  that 
good  scripts  don't  flourish  like  weeds  in  a 
garden,  but  have  to  be  developed  with  ten- 
der care,  like  a  glossy  carpet  of  dichondra. 

And  achieving  her  TV  dream  has  com- 
pelled her  to  live  even  more  completely  in 
the  present.  In  the  beginning,  she  had  no 
idea  of  the  amount  of  time  she  would  have 
to  give  to  her  show,  day  after  day,  week 
after  week — of  the  unabating  pace  she 
would  have  to  follow.  For  the  first  three 
weeks,  that  first  season,  the  set  was  like 
"Old  Home  Week."  Everyone  came  to  visit 
Loretta.  But  there's  nothing  in  the  budget 
of  any  TV  show  to  allow  for  all  this  visit- 


ing. A  "No  Visitors"  sign  had  to  be  nailed 
firmly  to  the  door  of  the  stage. 

Loretta  still  sighs  over  it.  "If  only  it 
weren't  so  big,"  she  says.  "So  implacable." 
But  she  knows  it's  got  to  be  there. 

Where  other  women  stew  about  little  and 
big  worries,  Loretta  says:  "What's  to  be 
done?"  then  does  it.  Like  the  time  she 
discovered  a  big  mistake  she'd  made.  "I 
had  carelessly  repeated  something  detri- 
mental I  had  heard  about  someone.  Months 
later,  I  learned  it  was  not  true.  I  had  to 
find  the  people  to  whom  I'd  told  it — and 
admit  my  stupidity.  I  was  wrong — and 
there  was  no  time  to  waste  in  fretting — I 
had  to  do  all  I  could  to  correct  what  I'd 
done,  and  do  it  pronto.  When  I'd  reached 
each  of  the  six  to  whom  I'd  been  so  gabby 
— and  repeated  my  apologies  and  admitted 
my  error — I  felt  I  had  been  honest  about 
it,  and  I  knew  I'd  learned  a  lesson. 

"I  ate  humble  pie  that  day,"  she  smiles, 
"and  found  out  a  strange  thing:  Eating 
humble  pie  can  be  mighty  sweet." 

Her  six  friends  respected  Loretta  for  her 
honesty.  Loretta  says  simply,  "The  inci- 
dent taught  me  to  keep  my  big  mouth 
shut! 

"But  if  I  had  stewed  and  fretted  about 
what  I  had  done — if  I'd  been  filled  with  re- 
morse— what  good  would  that  have  done 
the  woman  the  gossip  was  about?"  Loretta 
asks,  with  her  usual  reasonableness.  "When 
you  know  you've  done  something  wrong, 
you've  got  to  try  to  set  it  right,  if  you 
can.  Not  tomorrow — not  next  week.  But 
just  as  fast  as  possible — this  minute. 

"Today  is  the  only  fraction  of  time  we 
really  have.  We  can't  do  a  thing  about 
yesterday.  Tomorrow  hasn't  even  been 
born  yet.  But  if  we  can  fill  every  today 
with  1,440  minutes  beautifully  spent,  we'll 
have  no  need  to  regret  yesterday,  or  worry 
about  tomorrow." 


cy^/  Easier,  surer  protection  for  your  most  intimate  marriage  problem 


Tested  by  doctors... pmved  in  hospital  clinics 


1.  Antiseptic  (Protective,  germicidal  action) 

Norforms  are  now  safer  and  surer  than  ever!  A  highly  perfected 
new  formula  releases  its  antiseptic  and  germicidal  ingredients 
right  in  the  vaginal  tract.  The  exclusive  new  base  melts  at  body 
temperature,  forming  a  powerful  protective  film  that  permits 
long-lasting  action.  Will  not  harm  delicate  tissues. 

2.  Deodorant  (Protection  from  odor) 

Norforms  were  tested  in  a  hospital  clinic  and  found  to  be  more 
effective  than  anything  it  had  ever  used.  Norforms  are  powerfully 
deodorant — they  eliminate  (rather  than  cover  up)  embarrassing 
odors,  yet  have  no  "medicine"  or  "disinfectant"  odor  themselves. 

3.  Convenient  (So  easy  to  use) 

Norforms  are  small  vaginal  suppositories,  so  easy  and  convenient 
to  use.  Just  insert — no  apparatus,  no  mixing  or  measuring.  They're 
greaseless  and  they  keep  in  any  climate.  Your  druggist  has  them 
in  boxes  of  12  and  24.  Also  available  in  Canada. 


Mail  this  coupon  today 


NORFORmS 

VAGINAL  SUPPOSITORIES 


Tested  by  doctors 
Trusted  by  women 


^lORWICH  PRODUCT 


FREE  informative  Norforms  booklet 

Just  mail  this  coupon  to:  Dept.  RT-74 
Norwich  Phartnacal  Cqmpany,  Norwich,  N.  Y. 

Please  send  me  the  new  Norforms  booklet,'  in  a 
plain  envelope. 


Name. 
Street. 
City 


.NT) 


_Zone_ 


.State. 


T 
V 
R 

69 


WHAT'S  NEW  ON  THE  EAST  COAST 

(Continued  jrom  page  5/ 


rumored  is  a  young  Clark  progeny. 
.  .  .  Martin  Agronsky  swings  over  to 
NBC  this  spring  as  Washington  corre- 
spondent. .  .  .  Lovely  Melba  Rae,  seen 
on  Search  For  Tomorrow,  expecting  about 
June.  Melba  and  artist  husband  Gil  Shawn 
have  got  an  assortment  of  boys'  names 
ready  but  are  totally  unprepared  for  a 
girl.  Any  bets?  .  .  .  Liberace  and  candle- 
sticks to  England  again  this  fall.  .  .  .  Owing 
to  poor  health,  Jimmy  Dorsey  wUl  retire 
from  the  band  business.  .  .  .  Margaret 
Truman  not  very  active  in  TV.  Specxilation 
is  that  a  former  President  (not  Hoover) 
may  be  a  grandfather  this  year.  .  .  .  Biggest 
event  of  the  spring  is  Rodgers  &  Hammer- 
stein's  Cinderella  on  CBS-TV,  March  31st, 
starring  Julie  Andrews,  21-year-old  "Fair 
Lady."  Between  her  Broadway  role  and 
rehearsal  for  Cindy,  Julie  has  been  using 
her  voice  more  than  an  opera  star,  so  her 
physician  has  ordered  her  to  limit  con- 
versations to  ten  minutes  out  of  an  hour. 
.  .  .  CBS  didn't  renew  Bing  Crosby's  con- 
tract. NBC  couldn't  come  to  an  agreement 
with  him.  Now  ABC  is  hopeful.  .  .  .  Most 
exciting  issue  of  the  year  is  Victor's 
"Tribute  to  Dorsey"  in  two  12-inch  discs. 
The  music  is  from  TD's  great  swing  era, 
when  his  vocalists  were  Sinatra,  Jo  Staf- 
ford, Connie  Haines  and  Jack  Leonard. 
Beind  instrumentalists  were  such  as  Bunny 
Berigan,  Dave  Tough  and  Buddy  Rich. 
Pianist  on  most  of  the  music  is  Howard 
Smith,  who  has  been  Garry  Moore's  musi- 
cal director  for  many  years.  All  the  music 
is  Dorsey  at  his  best  and  what  more  can 
you  say  except  to  remember  that  the 
Sentimental  Gentleman  gave  many  young- 
sters their  first  break?  Sinatra  was  one  of 
the  first.  One  of  the  last  was  Elvis,  who 
made  his  TV  debut  on  the  Dorsey  show. 

Burning  Stars:  Rumor  has  it  that  The  Big 
Surprise  is  on  the  critical  list  and  may 
perish  momentarily,  but  Mike  Wallace  is 
causing  a  sensation  with  his  local  Gotham 
show  titled  Nightheat,  on  Du  Mont's  WABD. 


■ 

'^    9 

■■ 

H( 

■i.        J^^^^^^H 

L. 

J 

^^ii,  -^  P^^^H 

I^^M 

iP^l 

g         '} 

p^'^g 

mi                      ^ 

Ib  .^^H 

^^K 

^^^ 

■H 

BF   y 

WmM 

Bi 

»/^ 

J    Mike  Wallace   and   Nightheat   are   the 
R    talk  of  the  town  with  new  ABC-TV  deal. 


Singers  Steve  Lawrence  and   Eydie 
Sorme  may  do  a  duet — and  for  life. 


It  is  an  interview  show,  but  not  so  polite 
as  Ed  Miurrow's  Person  To  Person.  Mike 
pulls  no  pvmches.  He  interviews  celebrities 
and  asks  controversial  or  highly  personal 
questions.  The  camera  holds  close  on  the 
interviewee's  face  in  what  is  described  as 
the  "open-pore"  technique  or  "look-at- 
me-Ma-I'm-sweating."  So  successful  has 
the  show  become  in  New  York  City  that 
Mike  has  been  signed  to  a  $100,000  contract 
by  ABC-TV.  The  network  will  beam  his 
program  country-wide  Sundays,  beginning 
April  28th,  at  10:00  P.M.  Mike,  himself, 
favors  the  late  hour.  He  says.  "We  talk 
about  a  lot  of  things  which  I  wouldn't 
want  my  own  kids  to  hear."  And  there  are 
four  kids  in  his  home. 

Scratching  Around:  That  Wyatt  Earp 
man — Hugh  O'Brian — will  debut  in  East- 
ern theaters  in  a  one-man  show,  yet.  He 
will  dance,  sing  and  bongo  the  drums.  Hon- 
est! Incidentally,  Hugh,  who  is  Hollywood's 
sharpest  and  straightest  shooter,  has  been 
making  some  good  sense  in  his  campaign 
to  foster  safety  in  the  use  of  firearms.  .  .  . 
Brenda  Lee,  a  miniature  Ethel  Merman, 
started  out  with  Como  at  a  thousand  bucks 
per,  is  now  getting  more  than  double  that 
from  Steve  Allen  and  Dinah  Shore.  .  .  . 
Dave  Garroway  not  having  so  much  trouble 
with  his  gout.  .  .  .  Stop  to  think  about  it, 
things  haven't  changed  much  for  Lescoulie 
since  he  switched  from  Today  to  Tonight. 
When  he  worked  with  Dave,  he  left  home 
at  3:45  A.M.  Now  it's  3  A.M.  when  he 
drives  home.  It's  like  living  in  a  black-out. 
.  .  .  Denise  Lor  made  her  supper-club  de- 
but at  Manhattan's  Persian  Room  and  over- 
whelmed the  mink  set.  .  .  .  Keeping  up 
with  the  times:  Strapless  evening  gowns 
verboten  on  Voice  Of  Firestone.  .  .  .  Any- 
one for  Europe?  Elaine  Rost,  Mrs.  Pearson 
on  The  Second  Mrs.  Burton,  is  already 
dreaming  about  another  sxmimer  abroad. 
Last  year,  she  spent  three  months  in  Eng- 
land, France  and  Italy  with  Charita  Bauer 
of  The  Guiding  Light.  This  coming  sum- 
mer, Elaine  is  hoping  things  clear  up  in 
the  Middle  East  so  that  she  can  paddle 
around  the  Mediterranean.  Wanna  paddle 
along?  She's  looking  for  a  companion.  .  .  . 
Handsome  Donald  Gray,  who  stars  as  Mark 
Saber  in  The  Vise,  British-made  ABC-TV 
series,  says  what  British  TV  and  movies 
need   most   is   a   large   dose   of  American 


actresses.  Says  Donald,  "British  actresses 
are  better  trained  because  of  our  repertory 
companies,  but  American  girls  have  chi-chi 
chicness  that  projects  so  glamorously  on 
the  screen.  American  girls  dress  smarter, 
make  up  better,  and  carry  themselves 
with  carefree  dignity.  They  are  absolutely 
smashing."  Donald  interviewed  thirty 
beautiful  starlets  for  roles  on  The  Vise.  He 
dismissed  twenty-three.  The  remaining 
seven,  with  Beverly  Timsak  in  the  lead, 
"smashed"  him. 

TV  Graveyard:  Buried,  or  enroute  to  the 
cemetery  this  season,  are  Giant  Step,  The 
Brothers,  Stanley,  Winchell,  Can  Do,  My 
Friend  Flicka  and  Hiram  Holliday.  It's 
been  a  bloody  year,  but  the  biggest  casual- 
ties are  likely  to  be  the  Sid  Caesar  and  ■ 
Jackie  Gleason  shows.  Nothing  definite  on  f 
Caesar,  but  sponsors  are  withdrawing  and 
NBC  is  murmiuring  dissatisfaction,  for  they 
expected  a  greater  show  of  strength  from  i 
the  mighty  Caesar.  On  the  other  hand,  I 
Jackie  Gleason  has  announced  that  he  will  • 
not  return  next  year  with  his  present  show. 
Two  reasons:  He  has  taken  a  rating  lick- 
ing from  Como,  and  he  is  tired  of  doing 
the  same  show  after  six  years.  Gleason  has 
a  fifteen-year  contract  with  CBS  that  pays 
him  whether  he  works  or  not.  He  wUl 
work.  At  the  moment,  he  figures  on  ap- 
pearing only  in  special  shows.  What  he 
would  like  to  do  first,  though — and  this  is 
his  real  secret  ambition — is  make  a  motion 
picture,  preferably  in  collaboration  with 
his  good  friend  Orson  Welles.  Anyway,  it 
would  be  a  sad  commentary  on  the  state 
of  TV  programming  if  we  were  to  lose  the 
great  comedy  of  either  Gleason  or  Caesar. 
.  .  .  And  here's  the  big  news  on  what  you 
can  expect  a  lot  of  in  the  future.  They're 
filming  Westerns  like  mad  for  both  kids 
and  grownups.  Difference  between  kid  and 
adult  shoot-em-ups  is  mainly  in  the  end- 
ing. In  the  end  of  an  adult  Western,  the 
cowboy  gets  the  girl.  In  the  end  of  a  kid 
Western,  he  kisses  the  horse. 


Virginia    Graham    fans    will    soon    see 
their  favorite   as   TV   rep   for   Colgate. 


70 


WHAT'S  NEW— WEST 

{Continued  from  page  15) 

"MoFxa  Lisa"  smile,  as  a  tough,  villainous, 
hard-hearted  heavy.  "I  was  worried  about 
it,  too,"  says  Nat,  "because  I  didn't  want 
my  two  daughters — Carol,  or  'Cookie,'  12, 
and  Natalie,  or  'Sweetie,'  6 — to  get  the 
wrong  idea  about  their  dad.  But  they  re- 
assured mie  with,  'It's  okay,  Daddy,  'cause 
we  know  when  you're  gruff,  you're  only 
acting.  How  about  that?"  .  .  .  Something 
to  look  forward  to  will  be  CBS-TV's  Play- 
house 90  production  of  "Carbine  Webb  and 
the  Four  Sisters,"  based  on  a  true  story  of 
four  Catholic  nuns.  Helen  Hayes,  Ralph 
Meeker,  Katy  Jurado  and  Janice  Rule  will 
co-star  in  this  April  offering. 

Who's  Breaking  Records?  Pat  Boone  had 
five  gold  records,  for  five  tunes  cut  in  the 
last  year  on  the  Dot  label,  waiting  for  him 
when  he  recently  came  to  Hollywood  for 
filming  20th's  "Bernardine."  .  .  .  Tab  Hunter 
is  the  boy  who  didn't  believe  he  could  sing 
well  enough  to  record,  went  into  his  first 
session,  "just  plain  scared."  Tab  just  won 
gold  record  number  one  from  Dot  for  his 
recording,  "Young  Love,"  which  sold 
over  a  million  copies  in  three  weeks.  .  .  . 
The  one,  the  only,  glamorous  grandmother 
Marlene  Dietrich  has  signed  with  Dot 
Records,  too.  She  made  her  first  recordings 
in  February.  What  a  barber  shop  quartet 
Dot  records  president  Randy  Woods  has 
now:  Tenor  Tab  Hunter,  baritones  Pat 
Boone  and  Sanford  Clark,  backed  by  the 
inimitable  bass  voice  of  Marlene! 

Family  Affairs:  Ever  since  December 
Bride  made  its  CBS -TV  debut,  Harry 
Morgan,  who  plays  next-door  neighbor 
Pete  Porter,  has  been  talking  about  his 
mother-in-law,  Gladys.  Recently  viewers 
asked,  "When  are  we  going  to  see  Gladys?" 
You  will  be  pleased  to  know  that  Gladys 
will  be  on  the  show  March  18.  Well,  not 
exactly.  Gladys  will  appear  at  a  masquer- 
ade party — disguised  as  a  gorilla.  Nobody 
connected  with  the  show  knows  when  we'll 
see  Gladys  after  that.  We'd  hate  to  think 
she's  going  back  to  the  jungle.  .  .  .  This 
should  be  a  big  year  for  twenty-four-year- 
old  Jack  Imel,  dancer-marimba  player  of 
the  ABC-TV  Top  Tunes  And  New  Talent, 
who  is  moving  his  wife  and  two  children 
from  San  Diego  to  Hollywood.  Jack  is 
celebrating  his  recent  discharge  from  the 
Navy,  his  joining  the  Welk  gang,  and  the 
eagerly-awaited  arrival  of  a  third  little 
Imel.  .  .  .  It's  rumored  that  Tennessee 
Ernie  may  drop  one  of  his  shows,  and  it 
won't  be  the  Thursday  night-time  hour. 
Ernie's  big  problem — he  loves  his  children 
too  much  to  spend  all  his  hours  in  front 
of  a  TV  camera. 

Cuties  and  Cabbies:  Mary  Costa,  CBS- 
TV's  super  salesgirl  of  Climax,  would  like 
to  be  an  opera  diva.  She  sings  as  pretty 
as  she  looks,  too.  .  .  .  Molly  Bee  has  just 
bought  a  half-dozen  parakeets  and  named 
them  after  members  of  the  cast,  Ernie, 
Doris,  Dick,  etc.  Seventeen-year-old  Molly 
says,  "I  know  about  the  bees — now  I'm 
learning  about  the  birds."  .  .  .  There's  a 
cab  driver  in  Hollywood  whose  adroit 
maneuverings  down  Sunset  Boulevard  have 
earned  him  the  nickname  of  "Swifty."  Last 
week  Swifty  was  carrying  two  very  prom- 
inent Hollywood  TV  stars,  both  married, 
but  to  different  people.  Swifty  reports  he 
couldn't  help  overhearing  the  family-type 
squabble  going  on  in  the  back  seat.  "The 
gal  was  giving  the  guy  what-for  because 
last  night  she'd  seen  him  on  TV  kissin' 
his  own  wife!"  Well,  what's  one  man's 
Hollywood    is    another   man's    punch-line. 


here's  the  entire 


llollywoocl 


\ 


m\' 


evEBY  sTAii   •  Eveor  STORY  •  CKCNV  we*m,Hic 


The  book 
that  tells  you 
everything  you  wont 
to  know  about 
everyone  in 
Hollywood 


mum 


m  TMl  STARS  w  ^,-'- 

«  THE  STARS    m  t    c  ^4ew 

«  THt  STARS      ''  /<* 


It's  a  dream!  It's  the  new  1957  edi- 
tion of  Photoplay  Annual.  Between  the 
covers  of  this  thrilling  annual  is  the 
entire  Hollywood  year  in  review.  Here's 
everything  about  everybody  who  is 
anybody  in  Hollywood.  This  gorgeous 
yearbook  brings  you  hundreds  of  pic- 
tures ...  all  the  news  and  gossip  of 


Hollywood  .  .  .  plus  exclusive  stories 
about  the  screen's  outstanding  person- 
alities of  the  year.  Here,  too,  are  full- 
page  portraits  in  color  .  .  .  exciting 
candid  shots  .  .  .  thumbnail  sketches 
of  the  rising  young  stars,  and  many 
extra  special  treats.  Photoplay  Annual 
is  enjoyment  unlimited.  Get  yours  now. 


only  50<(  at  all  newsstands  no\Af ! 


NEWSDEALER  SOLD  OUT? 


This  is  the  most  wanted  Annual  published. 
Therefore,  it  is  only  natural  that  your 
newsdealer  may  be  sold  out  when  you  call 
to  pick  up  your  copy.  However,  don't  let 
this  worry  you!  You  can  still  obtain  a 
copy  of  this  exciting  Annual  by  mailing 
this  coupon  with  50# — if  you  act  at  once. 


J  PHOTOPLAY 
\  205  E.  42nd  St. 

New 

York 

Dept. 
17,  N.  Y. 

TS-457  1 

J  Send    me    PHOTOPLAY 
■  I  enclose  50e 

1 

ANNUAL 

1957.  1 

'  NAME 

■  Please  Print 

I  STREET 

1 

{  CITY 

.STATE.... 

mmm 

■  Mm 

Baikal. 

71 


Sentimental  Journey 


(Continued  from  page  41) 
host,  emcee  and  entertainer  on  three  daily 
shows.  One  day,  running  from  show  A  to 
show  B,  he  passed  through  colleague  Jack 
O'Mara's  office — and  working  there  was 
Sue  Coss,  a  natural  blonde  with  a  pixie 
sense  of  humor. 

Says  Bill,  "I  made  some  smart-alecky 
remark  which  promptly  inspired  a  'drop 
dead'  look  in  her  pretty  brown  eyes.  I 
knew  that,  although  I  had  my  motor 
racing,  I'd  been  left  at  the  starting  line 
with  my  brakes  on — in  short,  I  was 
making  no  headway  with  this  lovely  lass. 
It  took  two  weeks,  at  least,  before  she'd 
give  me  the  time  of  day. 

"Then,  by  chance,  I  asked  if  she'd  like 
to  go  to  a  professional  football  game. 
When  I  said  'football,'  she  suddenly  sat 
up  in  her  chair  as  though  it  had  been 
wired.  As  it  turned  out.  Sue  was  an  avid 
fan.  We  formed  our  own  Rams'  Rooters 
Club,  never  missed  a  game.  Of  course,  the 
Rams  lost  them  all — but,  by  then,  we'd 
found  other  things  to  talk  about.  In  fact, 
I  talked  her  into  working  for  me." 

Sue  became  not  only  Bill's  secretary  but 
his  right-hand  man.  She  quickly  learned 
that,  under  his  surface  humor,  Bill  is 
hard-working  and  sincere,  and  she  was 
soon  as  concerned  with  his  work  as  he 
was.  "Sue  began  having  ideas  about  the 
shows  and  making  practical  suggestions," 
says  Bill.  "I  found  myself  listening  to  her. 
Then,  one  day,  we  were  having  coffee 
together  in  a  few  free  minutes  between 
shows.  On  the  spur  of  the  moment,  I  said, 
'Will  you  marry  me?'  She  thought  I  was 
kidding.  The  next  day,  I  asked  her  again. 
This  time,  she  said,  'Yes,  yes,  yes.' " 

Born  in  Chicago,  Bill  attended  the  St. 
Thomas  of  Canterbury  School  and  Senn 
High,  later  went  on  to  both  De  Paul  and 
Northwestern  Universities.  His  career 
began  when  he  was  only  eighteen,  while 
he  was  still  going  to  school,  as  a  page  boy 
at  NBC's  radio  station  in  Chicago.  There, 
he  was  soon  advanced  on  the  page  staff 
to  duty  on  the  nineteenth  and  twentieth 
floors,  known  as  "the  artists'  floors." 

"At  the  time,"  says  Bill,  "Chicago  was 
the  radio  center  of  the  nation.  Nearly  all 
dramatic  arid  musical  shows  of  any  con- 
sequence originated  there.  Members  of  the 
page  staff  working  the  artists'  floors  had  to 
know  where  every  actor  and  actress  was 
at  any  given  moment.  Producers  and  di- 
rectors relied  on  us  as  winged  messengers 
to  keep  the  station  on  the  air.  A  lot  of 
'big  names'  were  starting  then.  Don 
Ameche,  John  Hodiak,  Tyrone  Power — 
all  struggUng  young  actors  in  Chicago — 
sat  on  benches  in  the  hall  waiting  for  a 
call." 

NBC  had  an  announcing  school  for  the 
boys  on  the  page  staff.  "We  were  taught 
by  the  top  armouncers  of  the  time,"  Bill 
recalls,  "Charlie  Lyon,  Louis  Rowen,  Ken 
Griffin,  and  Edward  Mitchell,  among 
others.  Ed  Bailey,  later  producer  of  Truth 
Or  Consequences,  was  on  the  page  staff 
with  me."  Upon  completing  the  course,  as- 
piring student  announcers  were  sent  to 
NBC's  affiliate  stations.  BiU  went  to  WHK, 
in  Cleveland.  "This  was  the  first  time  I'd 
ever  worked  at  announcing,"  he  says.  "I 
was  nineteen  and,  though  we  worked  six 
and  a  half  days  a  week  on  a  split  shift,  I 
still  grew  homesick  for  Chicago." 

Bill  went  back  to  Chicago  as  a  replace- 
ment for  a  well-known  disc  jockey.  Then, 
in  1940,  he  went  on  to  Detroit's  WBJK,  an 
independent  station.  There  he  started  on 
a  small  salary  and  a  percentage — the  show, 
then  untitled,  was  earning  three  dollars 
a  week.  Bill  called  it  Corn  'Til  Morn, 
broadcasting  to  the  swing- shift  workers 
from  twelve  to  five  A.M.  In  a  few  short 
months,  he  was  making  more  money  than 


i 


he   woiild    have    earned    at    the   network. 

His  announcing  career  was  interrupted 
for  a  period  of  three  years  and  ten  months 
while  he  served  with  the  Army  Air  Force. 
He  flew  B-25  and  B-26  medium  bombers — 
a  fact  he  mentions  only  casually  today, 
since  he's  not  the  kind  of  guy  to  talk  about 
his  exploits  in  the  war. 

Bill  took  his  discharge  in  California, 
where  fate  smiled  on  him.  as  brightly  as 
the  sun.  Walking  down  Sunset  Boulevard 
one  afternoon,  he  ran  into  an  old  friend, 
Harry  Patterson.  Harry,  as  program  di- 
rector at  Radio  Station  KMPC,  passed  on 
the  word  that  the  station  had  an  opening 
for  a  disc  jockey.  "The  sun  was  shining, 
it  was  a  beautiful  day,"  Bill  recalls,  "and 
I  thought  to  myself,  Why  not?"  He  went 
to  work  immediately,  still  in  Air  Force 
uniform — his  civilian  clothes  didn't  catch 
up  with  him  for  five  days. 

From  KMPC,  Bill  went  to  Radio  Station 
KFWB.  During  the  five  years  he  was 
there,  he  also  took  his  first  step  into  tele- 
vision, on  a  twice-a-week,  two-hour  show 
at  KHJ-TV  called  Helpfully  Yours.  Bill's 
reaction  to  television?  "Bewilderment.  I 
couldn't  find  any  microphones — and  I  was 
upset  because  I  couldn't  appear  before  the 
camera  with  a  two-day  growth  of  beard 
or  in  my  favorite  old  T-shirt!  But  I  found 
TV's  fast  pace  challenging  and  exciting. 
When  KTTV  asked  me  to  do  their  two- 
hour  Top  Of  The  Morning,  I  jumped  at 
the  opportunity.  Viewers  will  remember 
that  show  as  a  wild  melange.  I  did  every- 
thing: Drove  an  Army  tank  on  stage, 
rode  an  Arabian  horse,  was  shot  from  a 
C£innon — and  had  my  skull  fractured  by 
a  stuffed  eagle  'flying'  down  from  the 
wings." 

It  was  while  Bill  was  at  KTTV  that  he 
met  Sue  and  was  offered  the  emcee's  role 
on  the  upcoming  It  Could  Be  You.  "His 
reaction  to  the  offer  was  one  of  concern," 
Sue  says,  "because  he  would  have  to 
change  the  visual  character  his  audience 
had  come  to  know,  from  a  brash  comedian 
to  a  sensitive  'straight'  personaUty.  He 
worried  about  that,  but  his  philosophy  of 
life  has  always  been:  What  will  he,  will  he. 
'Things  take  care  of  themselves,'  he  said. 
'If  it  doesn't  work  out,  I'll  find  something 
else  to  do.'  He  accepted  the  offer — and,  if 
22,000  fan  letters  a  week  mean  anything, 
he's  a  whopping  success." 

Bill  himself  says  that  the  Ralph  Ed- 
wards production  of  It  Could  Be  You 
offers  more  laughter  and  more  tears  than 
any  show  he's  ever  worked  on.  He's  not 
the  kind  to  hide  his  sentiment  under  a 
false  smile,  and  he  shares  all  the  feelings 
of  the  show's  participants,  laughing  with 
them,  crying  with  them.  For  example,  he'll 
never  forget  what  he  personally  con- 
siders one  of  the  most  touching  moments 
he's  ever  experienced — the  reuniting  of 
Mrs.  Gerald  Mount  with  her  daughter 
Hannelora. 

As  he  himself  describes  the  event:  "Mrs. 
Moimt  previously  had  been  married  to  a 
Communist  policeman,  who  was  the  father 
of  her  child,  Hannelora.  In  an  attempt  to 
escape  the  growing  Communist  oppression, 
she  fled  to  West  Germany.  There  she  met 
and  married  an  American  Army  sergeant, 
Gerald  Mount,  later  coming  to  the  United 
States.  For  years,  she  tried  to  bring  her 
daughter  Hannelora  to  safety.  She  saved 
every  penny,  in  the  hope  that  somehow 
she  would  be  able  to  get  Hannelora  into 
West  Germany  and  then  supply  passage 
for  her  to  the  United  States.  But,  as  the 
months  went  by,  the  prospect  of  ever 
seeing  her  daughter  again  grew  dim,  and 
Mrs.  Mount  lost  hope. 

"Then  It  Could  Be  You  heard  about 
Hannelora.  Through  secret  channels,  the 
Army  was  able  to  deliver  the  youngster 


I 


I 


to  Dermiark.  From  there,  the  program 
flew  her  here  by  Scandinavian  Airlines, 
over  the  North  Pole.  When  mother  and 
daughter  were  once  again  united,  the  tears 
that  flowed  were  both  salty  and  sweet.  I 
cried,  too,"  Bill  admits  candidly.  "I'm 
sorry — but  on  this  show  I  just  can't  help 
feeling  the  same  emotions  as  the  subjects." 
He  adds,  "You  might  like  to  know  that,  at 
Christmas,  I  received  a  card  from  Hanne- 
lora. She  wrote:  'Remember  September 
26,  1956 — ^that  was  the  day  you  brought 
me  to  America  to  join  my  mother.'  As  if 
I  could  ever  forget!" 

Bill's  schedule  today  calls  for  him  to  be 
at   NBC-TV   early   in  the   morning,   with 
two  hours  of  rehearsal  before  showtime, 
then  the  program  itself,  followed  by  script  ■ 
meetings  and  additional  rehearsals.  Morn-  I 
ing,  noon  or  night,  BiU  would  be  satisfied  " 
with  the  same  dish  for  his  meals — steak! 
At   lunch,   he'll   cap   it   with   an   order   of 
mushrooms.    At    dinner,    he'U    want    two 
helpings.  After  his  steak  luncheon,  he  re- 
turns to  his  office  over  the  famed  Holly- 
wood Brown  Derby  and  spends  the  after- 
noon  answering   his  mail.   But  Sue,   who 
still  works  with  him,  says:   "I  try  to  keep 
him   from   pawing   through   aZI   the   mail, 
because   he's   so   conscientious  that — even  ■ 
if  he  receives  the  most  casual  note — he'll  J 
want  to  sit  down  and  write  a  long  letter." 

When  he  isn't  busy  with  his  program  or 
his  mail.  Bill  works  in  the  yard  of  his  new 
home  or  on  his  sports  car — his  two  prime 
interests,  at  present.  "It's  really  not  a 
yard,"  he  says.  "It's  more  like  a  jungle. 
We  have  three-quarters  of  an  acre,  and 
it  all  slopes  down  hill.  It's  heavily  planted 
with  a  combination  of  pine  trees  and 
avocados,  and  wildly  overgrown."  R 

Before  they  bought  their  home — a  ram-  I 
bling,  contemporary  ranch-style  house  ' 
with  a  shake  roof — Bill  and  Sue  were  only 
looking  for  a  place  to  rent.  For  some  weeks, 
they'd  been  out  searching  with  a  rental 
agent,  but  with  no  success.  Passing  the 
house  one  day.  Bill  commented,  "That's 
nice.  How  about  taking  a  look?"  "The  agent 
pointed  out  that  it  wasn't  for  rent,  but  for 
sale.  However,  at  Bill's  insistence,  he 
showed  it  to  them.  They  liked  it.  Two  days 
later,    they    called    back — and    bought    it. 

"After  we  had  stopped  living  out  of 
boxes,"  Bill  says,  "we  had  some  old  friends 
over  for  dinner.  I  was  all  for  going  out 
to  eat,  but  Sue  insisted  on  preparing  a 
roast  and  a  fancy  frozen  dessert.  That's 
when  the  trouble  began!  The  electricity 
'conked  out'  in  the  stove  and  refrigerator 
at  the  same  time,  so  the  roast  was  un- 
cooked, the  potatoes  only  half-baked,  and 
the  dessert  melted  to  a  soup.  And  we  had 
so   wanted   to  make   a   good   impression!" 

"I  was  almost  in  tears,"  Sue  remembers. 
"But  Bill  has  a  personality  that  never  lets 
these  uncontrolled  situations  get  him  down. 
He  laughed  good-naturedly  over  what 
seemed  a  catastrophe  to  me,  and  said, 
'Don't  worry.  Tomorrow  we'll  get  an  elec- 
trician up  here.  Now  let's  all  go  out  to 
eat.'  He'd  never  say,  'I  told  you  so.' " 

Whenever  Bill  has  a  free  moment  from 
the  heavy  schedule  of  It  Could  Be  You 
and  working  on  the  new  home,  he  turns 
to  tinkering  with  his  sports  car.  His  in- 
terest in  racing  motors  began  while  he  was 
a  teenager  in  Chicago's  Senn  High  School, 
when  he  and  eight  of  his  chums  chipped 
in  $100  each  to  buy  a  stripped-down  Alfa 
Romeo.  Later,  of  course,  there  were  the 
zooming  bombers  during  the  war.  ■ 

Today,  he  still  enjoys  getting  places  in  ] 
a  hurry — but  for  a  brand-new  reason.  ' 
Blue  eyes  sparkling.  Bill  Leyden  says, 
"Easy  in  traffic,  easy  on  gas,  and  great 
acceleration  on  the  hiUs,  my  speedy  little 
roadster  brings  me  home  just  that  much 
faster  to  my  wonderful  wife!" 


My  Life  With  George  and  Graeie 


(Continued  from  page  58) 
and    items   with    a    sea   motif — which,    all 
who  know  him  agree,  is  the  major  inter- 
est of  his  life,  aside  from  acting. 

Less  funny  was  the  time — he  was  eleven 
then,  and  at  siimmer  camp  near  San 
Francisco — when  a  horse  threw  him, 
breaking  an  arm.  In  pain,  and  threatened 
with  loss  of  the  arm,  he  lay  on  the  operat- 
ing table  four  hours  while  George  and 
Graeie,  who  had  flown  in  from  Hollywood, 
suffered  parental  agonies  until  the  doctor 
came  out  to  assure  them  the  arm  was 
saved  and  the  boy  would  be  as  good  as 
new.  When  they  were  allowed  to  see  him, 
Ronnie  took  his  mother's  hand  and  smiled 
up  at  her.  "Mother,  this  is  the  first  time 
I  ever  saw  you  look  sad,"  he  scolded.  At 
which  George  uttered  a  loud  and  un- 
mistakable sniffle  and  promptly  covered 
himself  by  announcing,  "Why  is  it,  every 
time  I  walk  into  a  hospital,  I  catch  a  cold." 

No  matter  how  their  tastes  might  differ 
in  some  respects,  there  were  certain  little 
traditions  George  and  Graeie  made  a  rule 
of  sharing.  "It  gave  Sandy  and  me  a  sense 
of  togetherness,"  says  Ronnie,  "and  I  guess 
that's  what  made  us  feel  secure."  As  an 
example,  they  had  their  Thursday  nights. 
It  was  one  night  when  they  all  tried  to  be 
together,  no  easy  thing  for  show  people. 
Graeie  cooked  and  George  produced  his 
specialty,  a  tossed  salad.  The  Burnses  do 
not  go  in  for  barbecues,  but  on  these  oc- 
casions Graeie  would  see  that  Ronnie  got 
his  favorite  meats — leg  of  lamb,  steak  and 
chicken.  "Eating  together  leads  to  facing 
problems  together,"  is  one  of  George's 
maxims,  and  it  is  one  of  the  things  Ronnie 
plans  to  carry  on  "when  I  have  a  family 
of  my  own." 

One  thing  Burns  and  Allen  did  not  share 


with  their  children  was  the  youngsters' 
love  of  sports  and  exercise.  Graeie  viewed 
their  gymnastics  and  athletic  games  apa- 
thetically, while  George  was  alrnost  as  bad. 
"When  Daddy  feels  the  urge  to  do  more 
than  a  round  of  golf,"  Ronnie  jokes,  "he 
lies  down  and  concentrates  on  forgetting 
all  about  it." 

Another  interest  of  Ronnie's  not  enjoyed 
by  his  parents  is  the  ancient  art  and 
ritual  of  bullfighting.  Ronnie  has  con- 
sidered himself  an  aficionado  since  he  took 
his  first  trip  to  the  ring  in  Tiajuana.  Re- 
membering Ronnie's  deer-hixnting  memen- 
to, Graeie  warned  him,  "You  can  go  to  the 
bullfights  if  you  want  to,  but  please  don't 
bring  home  any  little  souvenirs  like  a 
bull's  tail  or  ears." 

While  in  Mexico,  Ronnie  became  ac- 
quainted with  a  group  of  matadors  and 
was  entertained  by  them.  On  saying  good- 
bye, he  invited  them  to  give  him  a  call 
"if  you're  ever  in  L.A."  A  few  weeks  later, 
several  of  them  came  to  Hollywood,  and 
true  to  their  promise,  called  Ronnie  up. 
He  immediately  invited  them  to  the  house. 
It  was  a  whale  of  a  party,  lasting  to  7  A.M., 
with  Spanish  records  going  like  mad,  and 
Joe  Carioca  doing  his  stuff  on  the  piano 
and  guitar.  The  next  day  at  lunch,  Graeie, 
unflustered  and  smiling,  told  her  son, 
"Dear,  next  time  just  bring  home  the 
bulls." 

Although  Ronnie  has  been  raised  ac- 
cording to  Grade's  faith,  Catholic,  he  has 
been  taught  a  deep  and  abiding  affection 
for  his  Dad's  Jewish  relatives  and  for 
friends  of  the  family  who  follow  various 
sects  and  creeds.  "We're  show  people,"  he 
likes  to  quote  George,  "and,  with  us,  it's 
what  you  do  that  counts,  not  what  you 
are." 


Graeie  runs  the  household.  But,  on  oc- 
casion, George,  like  most  fathers,  has  been 
pushed  into  doing  some  of  the  disciplinary 
chores.  These  were  made  especially  difficult 
in  the  case  of  Ronnie,  who  apparently  was 
born  with  a  fuie  talent  for  talking  his  way 
out  of  punishment.  This  has  been  further 
complicated  by  Sandra's  habit  of  rushing 
to  her  brother's  defense,  even  assuming 
some  of  the  blame  for  his  mischief.  "The 
trouble  with  punishing  that  kid,"  George 
concedes,  "was  that  he  was  always  on  yoxu- 
side.  When  he  was  naughty  and  I  told  him 
he'd  have  to  take  his  medicine  like  a  man, 
he'd  pipe  up,  'You're  right,  Daddy.  I  was 
very,  very  bad,  so  you  go  ahead  and  spank 
me.'  How  can  you  spank  a  kid  after  that? 
Besides,  the  little  faker  knew  I'd  never 
laid  a  hand  on  either  of  the  children  and 
never  would." 

Once  the  governess  complained  to  Graeie 
that  Ronnie  had  been  naughty  while  com- 
pany was  in  the  house.  Graeie  told  him  he 
couldn't  stay  up  the  next  time  there 
would  be  guests.  Shortly  after,  guests  came 
and  she  began  marching  the  boy  upstairs. 
On  each  step,  he  paused  to  assure  her  she 
was  doing  the  right  thing,  that  he  was  only 
getting  what  he  deserved.  By  the  time  they 
reached  his  bedroom,  Graeie  was  in  tears 
and  only  too  eager  to  give  him  a  full  and 
hiunble  pardon. 

Still  on  the  subject  of  discipline,  Ronnie 
points  out  that  he  benefitted  by  a  theory 
of  George's.  "Daddy  believes  that  any- 
thing forbidden  becomes  an  added  temp- 
tation. He  learned  that  from  Grandma 
Birnbaum.  (George's  real  name  is  Nathan 
Birnbaum.)  She  never  had  anything  in 
her  house  stronger  than  sacramental  wine, 
and  that  only  on  Jewish  holidays.  But, 
when  Prohibition  came,  tippling  suddenly 


cuTicuRA  guarantees  lovelier  skin 


I N  7  DAYS 

...  0/*  you  get  your  money  back! 

Here's  your  chance  to  see  how  lovely  your  skin 
can  be  with  proper  care  and  the  proper  soap  .  .  . 
that  means,  lather-massage  a  full  minute  morn- 
ing and  night  with  Cuticura  Soap. 
Cuticura  Soap  does  such  wonderfiil  things  for 
your  skin  because  it  is:  Mildest  of  all  leading 
soaps  by  actual  laboratory  test.  Uniquely  super- 
emollient  to  help  maintain  the  natural  moisture 
and  normal,  healthy  acidity  of  your  skin.  Mildly 
medicated  for  extra  skin  care  and  protection. 
For  problem  skin— hateful  blackheads,  externally 
caused  pimples,  flaky  dryness— use  Cuticura 
Ointment  nightly  to  soften  as  it  soothes  and 
relieves. 

See  exciting  new  softness,  smooth- 
ness, radiance  in  7  days— or  return 
bar  and  wrapper  to  Cuticura  forjEulI 
refimd. 

Send  10^  (no  stamps)  to  cover 
mailing  for  generous  trial  size 
Cuticura  Soap  and  Squeeze  Bot- 
tle Shampoo.  Address  Cuticura, 
Dept.  TS-74,  Maiden  48,  Mass. 

(^uticiira 

Wishing  won't  help  your  skin— Cuticura  will! 


73 


was  transformed  into  a  daring  adventure. 
One  night,  she  amazed  Daddy  by  locking 
the  door,  pulling  down  the  shades  and  pro- 
ducing a  bottle  from  a  closet.  When  I  was 
eight  and  Sandy  nine,  we  went  to  camp 
with  a  governess.  Daddy  gave  her  a  bottle 
of  sherry  and  told  her  to  give  us  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  the  stuff  at  night  if  she 
thought  we  were  coming  down  with  a 
cold.  As  a  result,  we  associated  alcohol 
with  medicine  and  never  had  any  real 
hankering  for  it.  That  doesn't  mean  we 
don't  like  a  sociable  drink.  Our  bar  is 
always  open  to  us,  but  we  just  don't  take 
much  advantage  of  the  opportunity. 

"The  same  was  true  of  cigarettes,"  he 
grins.  "A  friend  and  I  hid  in  a  closet  to 
sneak  a  smoke.  The  maid  thought  the  place 
was  on  fire  and  called  Daddy.  He  took 
us  -both  into  his  den  and  said,  'Why  be 
sneaky  about  it?  If  you'd  have  asked  me, 
I'd  have  given  you  a  couple  of  cigarettes — 
and  lit  them  for  you,  too.'  Well,  smoking's 
never  seemed  very  important  since." 

Privacy?  That  seems  to  be  a  dirty  word 
in  the  Bums  family,  at  least  in  Ronnie's 
version.  Family  conferences  are  more  the 
order  of  the  day.  "You  take  education — 
mine.  Everybody  got  in  on  that  one.  If 
we'd  had  a  dog,  he'd  probably  have  offered 
a  few  well-chosen  words,  too.  One  thing 
they  all  agreed  on:  I  ought  to  have  an 
education."  George  admits  he  leaned  to- 
ward the  law.  Gracie  was  all  for  Ronnie 
becoming  an  architect.  Sandra,  "prob- 
ably seeing  herself  serving  tea  at  my  first 
one-man  show,"  favored  the  fine  arts. 

"But  when  all  had  said  their  say,"  Ron- 
nie recalls,  "Daddy  wound  up  by  telling 
me  to  do  whatever  I  really  liked  doing 
and  felt  I  could  do  well.  He  said  there  was 
nothing  so  frustrating  as  working  at  a  job 
that  bores  you.  He  said,  'A  fifty-dollar- a- 
week  clerk  who  loves  his  work  is  happier 
than  a  millionaire  who  hates  what  he's 
doing.'  Without  meaning  to,  I  got  flip.  I 
said,  'Dad,  in  that  case  there's  nothing  I 
love  more  than  spending  my  time  on  the 
sand  at  the  shore.'  Quick  as  a  wink,  he  was 
back  at  me  with,  'Just  the  thing,  son. 
There  ought  to  be  a  fortune  in  canning 
sand!' " 

Ronnie  finally  pitched  on  cinematog- 
raphy as  a  possible  profession.  He  worked 
two  summers  for  his  father's  firm,  Mc- 
Cadden  Productions,  as  a  filmcutter."  He 
still  thinks  "it's  the  soul  of  the  movie  art." 
Even  now  the  fascination  of  montage, 
which  is  the  piecing  together  of  film 
strips  to  convey  special  meanings  and 
atmosphere,  holds  him  in  the  cutting  room 
after  hours.  Often,  while  at  the  studio,  he 
will  have  his  dinner  in  the  cutting  room 
and  watch  the  men  put  a  film  together.  He 
has  also  majored  in  the  subject  at  the 
University  of  Southern  California,  and, 
with  two-and-a-half  years  behind  him, 
plans  to  attend  classes  until  he  can  get  his 
degree. 

His  plunge  into  show  business,  however, 
has  seriously  hampered  his  studies.  In 
addition  to  rehearsals  for  the  Burns  and 
Allen  show — where  he  plays  himself  with 
notable  success,  judging  by  the  fan  mail — 
there  are  guest  spots  on  TV,  and  also  les- 
sons in  dramatics  with  Estelle  Harmon, 
and  in  dancing  with  Nico  Charisse.  This  is 
done  on  George's  advice,  to  keep  him 
physically  fit,  as  well  as  prepared  for 
future  roles.  George  often  twits  him  on 
the  show,  recently  declaring  in  one  of  his 
famous  soliloquies,  "If  Ronnie  keeps  up 
his  studies,  he'll  be  the  most  educated 
office  boy  in  Hollywood." 

It  was  after  a  warm-up  stint  at  Pasa- 
dena   Playhouse,    where    Ronnie    had   the 
■J    lead  in  "Picnic,"  that  the  question  of  his 
y    joining  the  Burns  and  Allen  show   came 
H    up.  His  father  was  quite  blunt.  "Okay,  be 
an  actor  if  that's  the  thing  in  your  heart. 
But  you've  been  around  show  people  long 


enough  to  know  it's  a  tough  grind.  And 
let  me  warn  you — the  going  wem^t  be 
smoother  for  you  becavise  we'j^  your 
folks.  We  won't  have  it  that  way.  You'll 
either  prove  yourself  like  any  other  stage- 
struck  kid,  or  the  hook  for  you,  boy!" 

Fortunately,  Ronnie  went  over  big  in  his 
first  appearance  and  has  won  many  plau- 
dits from  professionals  for  his  work.  This 
has  not  gone  to  his  head — his  parents  took 
pains  to  make  sure  of  that.  When  one 
columnist  panned  Ronnie  for  a  poor  per- 
formance, George  went  right  on  having 
lunch  with  the  critic  and  even  saw  to  it 
that  Ronnie  joined  them.  "Praise  can  only 
encourage  you,"  George  told  Ronnie,  "but 
criticism  from  people  who  know  their 
onions  can  help  you  become  a  better  per- 
former." 

During  the  discussions  that  led  to  Ron- 
nie going  on  the  show,  George  and  Gracie 
decided  to  list  Ronnie  last  on  the  casting 
credits.  Their  view  was  straight  to  the 
point.  "When  you're  at  it  as  long  as  people 
like  Harry  Von  Zell,  and  are  as  good,  your 
name  will  stand  as  high." 

It  was  at  this  time  that  Gracie  suggested 
that  she  act  as  Ronnie's  agent,  "so,  when 
George  says  yes  to  a  raise,  the  ten  per- 
cent will  remain  in  the  family."  Ronnie 
earns  $200  a  week,  the  minimiun  scale. 
Of  this,  he  saves  almost  one  third,  and 
spends  the  rest  on  dating,  dining  out,  his 
hobbies  and  clothes.  The  latter  is  not  a 
costly    item — in    spite    of    his    early    pre- 


YOU  ELECTED  THEM! 

AWARD  WINNERS, 

1956-57 

Pictures  and  stones  in  May 

TV  RADIO  MIRROR 

on  sale  April  4 


dilection  for  loud  plaid  checks,  he  has 
ttirned  into  a  quiet,  almost  conservative 
dresser.  Five  suits,  three  sports  jackets, 
several  pairs  of  shoes.  As  Gracie  puts  it, 
"a  barefoot  boy  in  bathing  trunks." 

"I  haven't  asked  for  a  raise  yet,"  Ronnie 
explains,  "but,  when  I  do,  it  will  be  strict- 
ly business.  I  will  honestly  feel  I've  earned 
it."  Meanwhile  he  lives  at  home,  thereby 
saving  rent  and  board,  cind  gets  along 
splendidly  on  his  salary  and  the  extras  he 
picks  up  on  guest  appearances. 

After  his  first  Bums  and  Allen  show,  he 
rushed  up  to  his  father  and  asked,  "How 
was  I?"  George  answered  as  follows: 
"The  first  time  I  played  the  Palace  with 
Elsie  Janis,  my  mother  was  sick.  They 
had  to  carry  her  into  the  theater.  After 
the  show,  I  asked  her,  'Momma,  how  was 
I?'  She  gave  me  a  hard  look  that  had  a 
little  twinkle  around  the  edges  and  said, 
'Elsie  was  better.' "  Fiu"ther  comment  was 
not  required. 

Actually,  both  George  and  Gracie  were 
delighted  with  his  showing  and  their  be- 
lief in  his  talent  has  grown  with  each  per- 
formance. Nevertheless,  they  do  not  spoil 
him  with  flattery.  Instead,  they  try  to  be 
helpful  with  hints  derived  from  their  long 
years  in  show  business.  "People  always 
remember  the  big  jokes,"  George  told 
him,  "so  only  repeat  the  little  ones."  George 
also  takes  him  along  on  Friday  nights  when 
he  dines  at  the  Friars'.  The  jokes  fly  thick 
and  fast  among  George,  Danny  Kaye,  Jack 
Benny,  Georgie  Jessel  and  other  members 
and  Ronnie  has  learned  a  great  deal  about 
timing  from  these  experts.  He  is  proud 
and  awed  at  the  way  his  father  can  trace 


every  joke,  through  its  many  variations, 
back  over  the  years,  to  its  original  source. 

Both  George  and  Gracie  have  devoted 
hours  to  perfecting  their  son's  timing, 
adaptability  and  ease  on  stage.  "He  has 
natural  rhythm,"  Gracie  says,  obviously 
pleased.  "Many  actors  understand  how  to 
meet  their  marks  (follow  the  tape  placed 
on  the  floor  to  indicate  where  they  are  to 
stand).  But,  as  soon  as  another  actor 
makes  a  mistake  and  steps  out  of  position, 
they  lose  their  heads.  Ronnie  has  a  knack 
for  following  through  when  the  other  actor 
moves,  and  so  is  never  out  of  step.  I've  told 
him  many  times,  on  stage  or  out  in  the 
world,   position  is   everything."^ 

This  last  has  become  a  family  joke  since 
Ronnie's  appearance  on  Peter  Potter's 
Juke  Box  Jury.  When  Gracie  saw  the 
panel,  she  quipped  to  George.  "Didn't  I 
say  that  boy  learns  fast?  I  told  him  'posi- 
tion is  everything,'  and  look  at  him — right 
between  Cathy  Crosby  and  Danny 
Thomas's  Margie." 

But,  when  the  question  of  girls  comes 
up,  Ronnie's  long  jaw  drops  and  he  lets 
out  a  groan.  "Girls!  You  never  saw  such 
a  helpful,  enthusiastic  family  when  it 
comes  to  my  dates.  Dicky  Zanuck,  Bob 
Wagner  and  other  fellows  take  out  girls, 
and  it's  all  between  them,  their  dates  and 
their  consciences.  But  me?  Just  listen. 
Mother  will  get  in  the  first  lick.  'What's 
she  like?'  I'll  tell  her  the  girl  is  my  fa- 
vorite type,  the  Dresden  china  type  .  .  . 
like  Janie  Powell  or  Jean  Simmons.  She 
will  go  into  a  crying  act  at  once.  'Oh,  my 
goodness,  our  Ronnie  is  going  out  with  a 
married  woman!'  This  brings  Dad  in.  'Why 
a  married  woman?'  Then  with  her  best 
dead-pan,  she'll  answer,  'Didn't  you  hear 
him  say  like  Jane  PoweU  or  Jean  Sim- 
mons?' 

"Sandy  will  now  chime  in,  if  she  hap- 
pens to  be  visiting  us.  'Well,  I  don't  think 
it's  right  to  tease  Ronnie  about  girls — ^he's 
frightened  enough  as  it  is.'  And  of  coiu-se 
Daddy  dear  will  bring  up  the  rear  with, 
'Courage,  old  man.  Remember  how  you 
flunked  Spanish  three  times  and  went  on 
bravely  to  flunk  again?  Well,  it's  no  differ- 
ent with  girls.' 

"Oh,  my,  yes,"  Ronnie  chuckles.  "In 
spite  of  the  anvil  chorus,  I  go  out  with 
girls  all  the  time.  But  there's  no  one  big 
heart-throb  at  the  moment."  His  idea  of  a 
night  on  the  town  is  dinner  at  the  Luau 
or  the  Matador,  then  on  to  hear  Josh 
White,  Frank  Sinatra,  Harry  Belafonte  or 
some  other  favorite  entertainer  appearing 
on  Sunset  Strip,  and  finally  topping  off 
the  evening  with  dancing. 

But,  all  at  once,  as  Ronnie  talks  about 
his  life  with  Bums  and  Allen,  the  original 
question  that  started  him  off  drifts  back 
to  his  mind.  "Wonderful?"  he  murmurs 
again,  his  expression  brooding.  "Wouldn't 
that  mean  I'd  had  a  real  glamorous  life? 
I  don't  think  it  has  been  that.  I  don't  think 
my  folks  meant  it  to  be.  They  gave  me  a 
normal  life,  pleasant  and  healthy — and, 
while  doing  it,  threw  in  a  few  lessons  about 
decency,  good  humor  and  affection.  But 
maybe,"  and  here  his  face  lights  up  as 
a  new  understanding  comes,  "maybe — 
considering  that  they  are  Burns  and  Allen, 
headliners — the  fact  that  they  did  succeed 
in  giving  me  that  kind  of  normal  life  is 
pretty  wonderful,  after  all.  They  got  me 
when  I  was  too  young  to  know  my  own 
good  luck.  But  I've  learned  since.  Daddy 
calls  Mother  'Googie'  because  he  fell  in 
love  with  her  googoo  eyes.  She  calls  him 
'Nat'  because  he  was  using  his  right  name 
when  she  got  the  fifteen-dollar  wedding 
band  she  still  wears.  And  I  call  them 
'Mother'  and  'Daddy,'  not  only  because  they 
are  the  only  mother  and  father  I've  ever 
known,  but  because — ^to  borrow  the  title 
of  his  book  a  moment — ^I  love  them  with 
all  the  love  that's  in  me,  that's  why!" 


Cincinnati's  Ma  Perkins 

(Continued  from  page  24) 
city  and  home  of  happy  memories.  Her 
beloved  father,  Dr.  John  Louis  Payne,  has 
passed  on,  but  her  mother  still  lives  in 
this  house  to  which  they  moved  when  she 
was  about  four,  a  block  from  the  one 
where  Virginia  was  born.  So  do  Virginia's 
widowed  sister  Adele  (Mrs.  Howard 
Hollem,  now  director  of  Home  Service  for 
the  Red  Cross  in  Cincinnati),  and  Vir- 
ginia's aunt,  Mrs.  Kathleen  Brophy.  Her 
surgeon  brother.  Dr.  John  Hilliard  Payne, 
his  wife  Peggy  and  two  children,  Margaret 
Anne,  9,  and  John  Louis,  7,  live  in  Cin- 
cinnati and  are  on  hand  for  the  family 
gatherings.  Rex,  the  adored  collie,  barks 
a  "welcome  home"  to  all  of  them. 

The  O'Connors,  old  friends  down  the 
street,  stop  by  to  say  hello  to  Virginia,  and 
Mrs.  George  Feltes,  now  moved  away 
from  the  old  neighborhood,  telephones. 
Irene  Ganzel,  Alfreda  Luth  (a  singer  with 
whom  Virginia  did  many  programs  in  the 
old  days) ,  Mary  Eleanor  Whitehead,  whom 
she  has  known  since  fifth  grade,  and  a 
dozen  others  are  on  the  list  of  people  she 
would  like  to  see  if  her  time  allows. 

Tom  Robben,  now  married  and  asso- 
ciated with  a  Cincinnati  savings  and  loan 
company,  and  Virginia  get  together  to 
laugh  about  the  time  he  was  chosen,  at 
four,  to  hand  out  the  presents  at  a 
shower  given  at  the  Paynes'  for  one  of 
Virginia's  Omega  Upsilon  sorority  sisters. 
They  had  dressed  him  up  with  bow  and 
arrow,  as  Dan  Cupid,  and  Virginia  had 
coached  him  in  a  brief  and  graceful  little 
speech.  By  the  time  they  were  ready,  a 
tired  litle  boy  came  into  the  room,  head 
drooping  sleepily,  announcing  in  a  do-or- 
die  voice  all  that  he  could  remember  of 
the  carefully  plarmed  presentation:  "I'm 
Dam  Cupid,  for  Virginia." 

A  close  foursome  of  her  college  days, 
at  the  University  of  Cincinnati,  have  re- 
mained close,  at  least  in  spirit.  Charles 
Rechenbach,  now  a  college  professor  in 
Illinois;  Roy  Marz,  a  writer  now  and 
professor  of  English;  and  Mildred  Hart- 
sock,  her  chum  at  college.  "We  studied  to- 
gether, the  four  of  us,"  says  Virginia, 
"we  went  to  parties  and  movies  together, 
and  we  had  a  wonderful  time.  Roy  'bailed 
me  out'  frequently  when  I  was  wrestling 
with  homework.  I  would  rehearse  with  the 
Mummers  until  eleven,  then  call  him  late 
at  night  and  he  would  explain  the  work 
to  me  over  the  telephone." 

Ted  Learn,  now  a  Cincinnati  bank  trust 
officer,  was  president  of  their  little  neigh- 
borhood dramatic  club,  and  he  talks  about 
the  days  when  they  were  growing  up  to- 
gether, and  his  first  gUmpses  of  Virginia's 
acting  talent.  "There  were  a  bunch  of 
young  people  in  that  neighborhood  who 
were  interested  in  dramatics.  They  were 
working  on  a  story  that  this  young  girl 
had  rewritten  into  a  play,  and  she  was 
directing  it,  displaying  uncanny  talent  as 
a  writer  and  actress.  Her  father  was 
family  doctor  for  a  nxmiber  of  the  kids, 
and  we  made  her  house  the  hangout  for 
the  crowd.  We  had  good  times  reading 
the  play,  but  Virginia  was  the  only  one 
we  admitted  had  real  talent.  Everyone 
looked  to  her  for  instruction  and  guidance, 
but  it  wasn't  until  some  time  later  that  I 
began  to  appreciate  all  the  talents  she 
had." 

Jack  Maish,  now  with  the  Cincinnati 
Safety  Council  but  formerly  a  writer  at 
WLW,  remembers  how  she  could  handle 
any  kind  of  part.  "We  were  doing  a  couple 
of  series  on  the  air,  one  called  Historical 
Highlights  and  another  called  Great  Ad- 
ventures. Sometimes  I  would  come  up  two 
pages  or  so  short,  and  while  the  program 
was  on  the  air  I   would  be  batting  out 


OPPORTUNITIES 

FOR  EVERYBODY 

PublUher't  Cla>ii<i«d  Department  (Trademark) 


For  elanHmd  advertiting  ralet,  write  to  William  R.  Sfewart,  9  South  Clinton  Sireei,  Cliicogo  6  (Wo.-April)  1957 


OF  TO   INTEREST  WOMEN 

$500  FOR  YOUR  Child's  Picture  (All  Ages).  Thousands  paid 
by  advertisers.  Send  one  small  picture.  Returned  with  judges' 
report.  Print  child's,  parents'  name,  address  on  back.  Spotlite, 

8346-P4,  Beverly  Blvd.,  Hollywood,  Calif. 

WHOLESALE  CATALOG  1  30-80%  DiscountsI  Appliances, 
Musical  Instruments,  Typewriters,  Tools,  Watches,  Jewelry, 
Cameras,  Housewares,  etc.  Consolidated  Distributors,  1300 
Mam,  Clifton  18,  New  Jersey. 

$200  MONTHLY  POSSIBLE,  Sewing  Babywear— Play-Time 
Dresses;  lacing  Leather  MoccasinsI  New  Baby  Sandals!  No 
house  sellingl  Rush  stamped,  addressed  envelope  for  further 

details.  Babygay,  Warsaw  1,  Indiana. 

$100-$200  MONTHLY  Possible,  Preparing  envelopes,  post- 
cards, from  mailing  lists  at  home.  Longhand,  typewriter. 
Detailed   Instructions  only  25cl   Economy  Publishers,   Box 

1686,  Clearwater  3,  Florida. 

$500  FOR  YOUR  child's  photo,  all  ages,  if  used  for  adver- 
tising.  Send  photo  for  approval — free  camera  offer.  Returned 
two  weeks.  Advertisers,  6000- YD,  Sunset,  Los  Angeles  28. 
DRESSES  24c;  SHOES  39c;  Men's  suits  $4.95;  trousers 
$1.20.  Better  used  clothing.  Free  Catalog.  Transworld  164-A 

Christopher,  Brooklyn  12,  N.Y. 

$2.00  HOURLY  POSSIBLE  doing  light  assembly  work  at 
home.   Experience  unnecessary.  Crown   Industries,  8507-B 

West  Third,  Los  Angeles  48,  Calif. 

EARN  $60  TO  $70.00  Weekly  Possible,  Preparing  Our 
Postcards  at  Home.  Sparetime  Outfit,  $1.00.  Fisher  Products, 

Box  4044-B,  San  Francisco,  Calif. 

MAKE  MONEY  SEWING  At  Home,  part  or  full  time.  We 
instruct.  No  Selling.  Free  details:  Jud-San,  518  E.  105th, 

DepL  D-15,  Cleveland  8,  Ohio. 

DRESSES  18c,  COATS  $1.29,  Blouses  39c,  Skirts  69c.  Cata- 
log 10c— Refundable.  Mail-Mart,  199-P  Sackett,  Brooklyn  31, 

N.Y. 

SPARETIME  HOMEWORKI  GUARANTEED  Pay.  No  Sell- 
ing, Everything  Furnished.  Enterprises,  229  Adams,  Boston, 

22-C,  Massachusetts. 

SEW  OUR  READY  cut  aprons  at  home,  spare  time.  Easy, 

Profitable.  Hanky  Aprons,  Ft.  Smith  3,  Ark. 

EARN  $50  FAST  sewing  our  precut  products.  Information  3c. 

Thompson's,  Loganville,  Wisconsin. 

EARN  SPARETIME  CASH  Mailing  Advertising  Literature. 

Glenway,  Box  6568,  Cleveland  1,  Ohio. 

MAKE  MONEY  CLIPPING  Newspaper  Items  For  Publish- 
ers.  Write,  Newscraft,  PW-983-E.  Main,  Columbus  5,  Ohio. 
"DO  IT  WITH  Felt"  16  page  booklet  beautifully  illustrated. 
60  cents  postpaid.  Liebig  Industries,  Beaver  Dam  5,  Wisconsin. 
$18.00  WEEKLY,  HANDPAINTING  planter  Plates.  No  sell- 

ing.  Flocraft,  Farrell  45,  Penna. 

$30.00  WEEKLY  MAKING  Roses.  Easy,  Write  Studio  Com- 

pany,  Greenville  5,  Pa. 

FREE  CADILLAC,  $10,000  Yearly.  Cars,  appliances  whole- 

sale.  Strateway,  6228-N,  Charlotte  7,  N.C. 

HELP  WANTED 

BEAUTY  DEMONSTRATORS— TO  $5.00  hour  demonstrat- 
ing Famous  Hollywood  Cosmetics,  your  neighborhood.  For 
fifee  samples,  details,  write  Studio  Girl,  Dept.  1674C,  Glen- 

dale,  Calif. 

EARN  EXTRA  MONEY  selling  Advertising  Book  Matches. 
Free  sample  kit  furnished.  Matchcorp,  Dept.  WP-36,  Chicago 

32,  Illinois. ^_^^ 

HOMEWORK  ON  HAND-made  moccasins  and  bags.  Easy, 
Profitable.  California  Handicrafts,  Los  Angeles  46,  California 

AGENTS  WANTED 

FASHION  DEMONSTRATORS— $20-$40  profit  evenings. 
No  delivering  or  collecting.  Beeline  Style  Shows  are  Party  Plan 
sensation  I  No  investment.  Managers  also  needed.  Beeline 

Fashions,  Bensenville  23,  Illinois. 

CALIFORNIA  SWEET  SMELLING  Beads.  Sensational 
sellers.  Free  Particulars.  Mission,  2328AA  West  Pico,  Los 

Angeles  6,  California. 

60%  PROFIT  COSMETICS  $25  day  up.  Hire  others.  Samples, 
details.  Studio  Girl-Hollywood,  Glendale,  Calif.,  Dept.  1674H. 

SALESWOMEN  WANTED 

EVERYDAY  CARDSI  MAKE  Big  Moneyl  Sell  21  "Tall" 
greeting  cards,  $1.00.  400  other  fast  selling  gifts,  greetings, 
personalized  specialties.  Samples  on  approval.  Write,  Arrow, 

Dept.  C,  4th  Ave.  So.,  Minneapolis,  Minn. 

FOREIGN  &  U.S.A.  JOB  IISTINGS 

HIGH  PAYING  JOBS:  Foreign,  USA.  All  trades.  Travel  paid. 
Information,  Application  forms.  Write  Dept.  21 B  National, 

1020  Broad,  Newark,  N.J. 

HOME  SEWERS  OPPORTUNITIES 

SEW  BABY  SHOES  at  homel  $40  week  possible.  We  con- 
tact stores  for  you.  Tiny-Tot,  Gallipolis  19,  Ohio. 


MONEY  MAKING  OPPORTUNITIES 


$50.00  WEEKLY  POSSIBLE  Mailing  Circulars  For  Adver- 
tisers. Complete  Instructions  25c.  Siwaslian,  4317-F  Gleane. 
Elmhurst  73,  N.Y. 

$300  MONTHLY  POSSIBLE  mailing  circulars.  Associated 
Advertisers,  509  Fifth  Ave.,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 

GlIARANTEED  HOMEWORKI  IMMEDIATE  Commissions 
Free  OutfitsI  Hirsch,  1301-12  Hoe,  New  York  City  59. 

$25  WEEKLY  POSSIBLE,  sparetime,  preparing  advertising 
mailings  at  home.  Temple  Co.,  Muncie  2,  Indiana. 
EXTRA  MONEY  PREPARING  Mailing  Postcards,  Gul,  1815 

Meyers,  Lombard,  Illinois.  

MAKE  YOUR  TYPEWRITER   Earn   Money.  Send  $1.00. 

Hughes,  7004  Diversey,  Chicago  35. 

$35  WEEKLY  PREPARING  envelopes.  Instructions  $1.  Re- 

fundable.  Adservice,  Spring  Valley  151,  New  York. 

LOANS  BY  MAIL 

BORROW  $50  TO  $500.  Employed  men  and  women  over  25, 
eligible.  Confidential — no  co-signers — no  inquiries  of  employ- 
ers or  friends.  Repay  in  monthly  payments  to  fit  your  income. 
Supervised  by  State  of  Nebraska.  Loan  application  sent  free 
in  plain  envelope.  Give  occupation.  American   Loan   Plan, 

City  National  Bidg.,  Dept.  WD-4,  Omaha,  Nebraska. 

PAY  YOUR  BILLS  Now.  Borrow  $100  to  $600  Cash  by  mail. 
Easy,  quick,  private.  Repay  in  small  monthly  installments 
over  20  months.  Your  payments  may  run  K  less  than  now; 
have  money  left  over  to  spend.  Loan  Order  Blank  mailed 
Free  in  plain  envelope.  Advise  amount  needed.  State  Finance 
Co.,  323  Securities  BIdg.,  Dept.  L-69,  Omaha  2,  Nebr. 
BORROW  BY  MAIL.  $100-$600.  Anywhere.  Air  Mail  Service. 
Postal  Finance,  200  Keeline  Building,  Dept.  653-E,  Omaha  2, 
Nebraska. 

EDUCATIONAL   OPPORTUNITIES 

COMPLETE  YOUR  HIGH  School  at  home  in  spare  time  with 
60-year-old  school.  Texts  furnished.  No  classes.  Diploma. 
Information    booklet  free.   American  School,   DepL   X474, 

Drexel  at  58th,  Chicago  37,  Illinois. 

HIGH  SCHOOL  DIPLOMA  at  home.  Licensed  teachers. 
Approved  materials.  Southern  States  Academy,  Box  144W. 

Station  E,  Atlanta,  Georgia. 

FREEl  "TALENT  APTITUDE  Tesf  Learn  acting  at  home 
for  TV.  radio,  theater,  movie  career.  Hollywood  Royal  Acade- 
my,  Studio  B3,  5880  Hollywood  Blvd.,  Hollywood  28,  Calif. 
LEARN  WHILE  ASLEEPI  Details  Free.  Research  Associa- 

tion.  Box  610-WP,  Omaha,  Nebraska. 

BUSINESS  OPPORTUNITIES 

$$$$GROW  MUSHROOMS.  Cellar,  shed.  Spare,  full  time, 
year  round.  We  pay  $3.50  lb.  We  have  over  25,000  cusotmers. 
Free   Book.    Mushrooms,    Dept.   412.   2954  Admiral   Way, 

Seattle,  Wash. 

PREPARE  ADVERTISING  LETTERS.  Mail  to  our  name 
lists.   $50   weekly    possible.    Adams,    11603-R    Paramount: 

Downey,  California. 

INVISIBLY  MEND  DAMAGED  garments  at  home.  Make  big 
money.  Details  Free.  Fabricon,  8340-S  Prairie,  Chicago  19,  III. 

STAMP  COLLECTING 

CANADA— NEWFOUNDLAND  COLLECTION  including 
early  issues,  commemoratives,  pictorials  and  high  values. 
Plus  set  of  fascinating  triangle  stamps.  Plus  set  of  unused 
British  Colonies.  Plus  large  stamp  book.  All  four  offers  free. 
Send  10c  to  cover  postage.  Empire  Stamp  Corp.,  DepL  PC, 

Toronto,  Canada. 

FIFtST  U.N.  SET.  Among  World's  Prettiest.  Only  10c.  Ap- 

provals.  Welles,  Box  1246-PX,  NYC  8. 

OLD   COINS   &  MONEY  WANTED 

WE  PURCHASE  INDIANHEAD  pennies.  Complete  allcoin 
catalogue  25c.  Magnacoins,  Box  61-HM,  Whitestone  57,  N.Y. 
WE  BUY  ALL  rare  American  coins.  Complete  catalogue  25c 
Fairview,  Box  1116-ES,  New  York  City  8. 

MOTHER'S  DAY  REMEMBRANCES 

MOTHER'S  DAY  SOUVENIR.  New  Song.  "Mother's  Day" 
Sheet  music,  gorgeous  cover.  If  s  different.  Everyone  loves  it. 
Postpaid.  Mail  $1.00  to  Carpenter,  Box  2834,  St  Petersburg, 

Rorida.  Agents  wanted. 

WHOLESALE  CATALOGS 

BUY  RETAIL  AT  Wholesale  Prices!  Free  Jewelry,  House- 
wares   Catalog!    Watson    Sales,    Box    67,  Rugbe   Station, 

Brooklyn  3,  N.  Y. 

INSTRUCTION 

HIGH  SCHOOL— NO  Classes.  Study  at  home.  Spare  Time. 
Diploma  awarded.  Write  for  Free  Catalog  HCH-42,  Wayne 

School,  2527  Sheffield,  Chicago  14,  III. 

WORK   AT   HOME 

t5.00  DAILY,  MAKING  Orchids.  Easy.  Free  sample.  Boycan, 
haron  7,  Pennsylvania. 


What  Do  3  Out  of  4 

Doctors  Recommend 

to  Relieve  Pkin? 

A  survey  shows  3  out  of  4  doctors  recommend  the 
famous  ingredients  of  Anacin  Tablets  to  relieve  pain 
of  headache,  neuritis  and  neuralgia.  Here's  why 
Anacin®  gives  you  better  total  effect  in  relieving 
pain  than  aspirin  or  any  buffered  aspirin : 

BB^  ACTS  INSTANTLY:  Anacin  goes  to  work  instantly. 
Brings  fast  relief  to  source  of  ;aur  pain. 

■i^  MORE  EFFECTIVE:  Anacin  is  like  a  doctor's  pre- 
scription. That  is,  Anacin  contains  not  one  but 
a  combination  of  effective,  medically  proven  in- 
gredients. 

■■^  SAFER:  Anacin  simply  can  not  opset  yonr  stomacb. 

■i^^  LESSENS  TENSION:  Anacin  also  reduces  nervous 
tension,  leaves  you  relaxed,  feeling  fine  after  pain 
goei.  Bay  Anacin  today. 


SHEETS,  TOASTERS, 
TOWELS,  MIXERS,etc. 
GIVEN  TO  YOU  FREE! 


Hundreds  of  famous,  na- 
tionally advertised  produas 
to  choose  from — furniture, 
rugs,  lamps,  slip  covers,  sil- 
verware, china,  draperies. 
You  get  $50.00  —  $100.00 
and  more  in  merchandise 
just  by  being  Secretary  of  a 
Popular  Club  you  help  your 
friends  form.  It's  easy!  It's 
fun  !  Nothing  to  sell,  noth- 
ing to  buy.  Write  today. 


j  Popular  Club  Plan,  Dept.K-933,Lynbrool(,  N.Y.  | 
I  Send  Bi9  FREE  276-Page  FULL-COLOR  Catalog  | 

I  Name _ _.„__.....„ __.  ■ 

I  Address | 

■   City jState „  I 

^^  ^^  ^1"  ^^   ^^  ^^   ^^  ■■■  ^^  ^^  ^^  ^^  ^HB  ^^  ^^  ^m 


T 
V 
R 

75 


some  additional  lines  on  my  typewriter. 
Ginny  could  take  them  and  read  them 
with  all  the  proper  inflections  and  mean- 
ings the  first  time  over,  without  a  stumble." 
Virginia  has  said  of  Jack  that  the  pro- 
grams he  wrote  were  so  interesting,  and 
he  did  such  tremendous  research  to  make 
them  factual,  it  was  a  stimulating  ex- 
perience to  work  with  him — and  having  to 
grab  extra  lines  to  read  at  first  glance  was 
probably  part  of  the  exacting  training  she 
felt  necessary  to  a  good  actress. 

Listening  to  Virginia  Payne  talk,  watch- 
ing her  today,  perhaps  it  is  not  so  difficult 
to  imagine  how  she  became  the  voice  and 
the  interpreter  of  an  older  woman  like 
Ma  Perkins,  conveying  her  emotions  and 
her  wisdom  through  many  scripts,  over 
many  years.  There  is  a  quiet  maturity  in 
her  own  manner,  although  there  is  still 
that  "little-girl"  look  about  her  which  she 
had  when  her  blond  sleek  bob  was  cut 
in  bangs,  over  the  blue-gray  eyes,  and 
she  was  still  playing  at  being  an  actress. 
She  is  still  petite,  five-feet-one,  with  a 
small,  piquant  face  that  is  expressive  and 
sensitive. 

The  only  two  persons  who  ever  seemed 
to  doubt  for  one  moment  that  she  could 
be  Ma  Perkins  were  Virginia  herself,  and 
Virginia's  mother.  Virginia  had  to  be 
talked  into  taking  the  role,  even  after  she 
had  successfully  auditioned  for  it.  "I  didn't 
like  the  idea  a  bit  at  first,"  Mrs.  Payne 
says.  "I  just  couldn't  see  my  daughter  as 
an  older  woman."  (What  mother  could? 
When  the  daughter  was  barely  out  of 
school,  starry-eyed  about  life,  untouched 
by  most  of  the  problems  that  come  with 
maturity  and  lengthening  years!) 

Virginia's  physician  father  may  have  had 
some  qualms  about  the  whole  acting  busi- 
ness for  a  while.  In  fact,  she  recalls  the 
time  he  helped  her  make  out  her  first 
income  tax  return.  When  they  came  to  the 
line  marked  "Occupation,"  he  said  rather 
wryly,  "I  suppose  we  shall  have  to  write 
Actress."  Later,  he  used  to  say  that  she 
had  once  been  known  as  Dr.  Payne's 
daughter,  but  now  he  had  become  Virginia 
Payne's  father! 

"He  certainly  had  not,  nor  did  he  ever," 
she  says  of  him.  "He  was  the  finest  type 
of  family  doctor,  a  general  practitioner  who 
was  honored  before  his  death  by  the 
American  Medical  Association  for  fifty 
years  in  the  practice  of  medicine.  He  taught 
at  the  medical  college,  he  ministered  \m- 
tiringly  to  our  community,  was  devoted  to 
the  welfare  of  great  numbers  of  people, 
and  was  a  trusted  adviser  on  many  subjects 
besides  medicine.  Sometimes,  when  Ma 
Perkins  is  said  to  be  almost  'too  good  to 
be  true,'  I  think  immediately  of  my  father 
and  know  that  the  criticism  is  not  valid." 
Being  born  into  a  family  which  for 
generations  has  produced  civic  and  social 
minded  men  and  women,  scientists  and 
physicians — and  being  born  in  a  city  like 
Cincinnati — has  always  seemed  a  double 
blessing  to  Virginia.  From  her  family,  she 
has  a  legacy  of  interests  which,  in  her 
case,  have  made  her  a  worker  for  many 
cultural  causes  and  for  various  projects 
for  young  people.  From  her  city,  she  has 
a  cultural  background  she  feels  is  in- 
valuable. "Until  I  traveled  in  Europe  I  had 
no  idea  of  the  imusual  advantages  we  had 
in  Cincirmati,  so  like  many  of  the  cities 
of  Europe.  There  has  always  been  a  truly 
professional  attitude  in  preparing  young- 
sters for  careers  in  the  arts.  As  a  child,  I 
went  regularly  to  symphony  concerts 
planned  for  children,  and  Thomas  James 
Kelly  of  our  Cincinnati  Conservatory  of 
Music  gave  talks  for  us  on  musical  ap- 
•f  preciation,  pointed  out  themes,  identified 
y  instnmients.  While  the  music  itself  was 
U  being  indelibly  impressed  upon  us,  we 
learned  to  appreciate  the  fine  musician- 
„„  ship  of  the  orchestra.  All  our  schools  were 
76 


exacting  in  their  training,  and  highly  pro- 
fessional." 

Virginia  went  through  the  elementary 
grades  and  the  four  years  of  higK  school 
at  Cedar  Grove  Academy,  and  ^o  doubt 
the  teachers  there  knew  from  the  begin- 
ning that  they  had  a  born  actress  in  their 
midst.  "She  had  talent  sticking  out  all 
over  her,"  one  of  them  has  said. 

Helen  Rose,  speech  teacher  at  Schuster- 
Martin  School  of  Drama,  spotted  that 
talent  the  moment  Virginia  walked  into 
the  school.  "She  was  only  about  twelve 
or  thirteen  then,  but  she  brought  her 
talent  with  her.  In  her  first  play,  we  real- 
ized she  could  act  with  rare  alsility  and 
feeling.  She  had  a  rich  and  beautiful  voice, 
although  you  would  never  know  just  how 
rich  and  beautiful,  hearing  her  as  Ma 
Perkins." 

(Editor's  note:  Ma  Perkins'  voice  is 
older,  flatter,  matter-of-fact,  which  is  ex- 
actly the  way  that  lady  should  sound. 
Ma  Perkins'  grammar  is  also  sometimes 
strictly  of  her  own  invention,  while  Miss 
Payne's  is  impeccable,  but  this,  too,  is  in 
character  for  the  unschooled,  unpretentious 
but  glorious  woman  she  plays.)  Under- 
standing this  situation  fully,  Miss  Rose 
says:  "It's  just  part  of  Virginia's  talent 
that  she  can  disguise  her  own  voice  like 
that." 

Her  mother,  a  woman  who  lives  litera- 
ture and  poetry,  began  to  teach  Virginia 
bits  of  fine  poems  almost  as  soon  as  she 
began  to  talk.  At  five,  Esther  Brown  (who 
later  married  the  Reverend  Hodson  Young) 
became  Virginia's  dramatic  teacher.  At 
six  or  seven,  she  was  reciting  at  lodge  and 
club  and  church  affairs.  By  the  time  she 
was  a  high  school  student,  she  was  study- 
ing at  Schuster-Martin,  apprenticing  two 
summers  with  the  famous  Stuart  Walker 
stock  company,  continuing  her  dramatic 
work  while  she  went  to  the  University  of 
Cincinnati  for  her  B.A.  degree,  and  then 
her  M.A.,  in  English  literature,  continuing 
piano  and  voice  at  the  Cincinnati  College 
of  Music. 

At  Schuster-Martin,  one  of  her  dra- 
matic teachers  was  Mrs.  Patia  Power — smd 
one  of  her  classmates  was  the  latter's  son, 
Tyrone  Power,  Jr.  "Tyrone  was  a  hand- 
some boy,  very  like  his  beautiful,  regal- 
looking  mother,"  Virginia  recalls.  "I  was 
immensely  impressed  with  them,  and  with 
Ty's  sister  Anne,  now  Mrs.  Hardenburgh 
and  still  my  very  good  friend.  Even  then 
Tyrone  was  a  very  exciting  actor,  although 
just  a  boy,  but  his  mother  was  as  exacting 
with  him  as  she  was  with  the  rest  of  us. 
She  had  been  her  husband's  leading  lady 
before  she  turned  to  teaching,  and  her 
standards  were  most  professional. 

"Mrs.  Martin,  who  has  since  passed  on, 
was  the  head  of  the  school.  A  wonderful 
woman,  marvelously  kind  to  me,  a  great 
influence  in  my  life.  Her  daughter  Roberta, 
now  Mrs.  Walter  Eyer,  and  her  son  Bill 
Martin  have  schools  of  their  own  now,  but 
were  part  of  my  happy  life  at  Schuster- 
Martin." 

Roberta  Eyer  remembers  Virginia  as  "a 
very  brilliant  teenager,  with  a  wide  ap- 
preciation of  everything.  She  not  only 
knew  theater  but  she  knew  music,  could 
play  the  piano,  and  was  a  most  talented 
person."  When  the  school  was  asked  by 
Station  WLW  to  put  on  some  dramatic 
programs,  it  was  natxiral  that  Virginia 
should  be  chosen,  and  she  and  many  of 
her  fellow  students  began  to  work  regu- 
larly on  WLW,  not  for  payment  but  for 
experience.  Incidentally,  her  first  pay- 
check from  radio  was  for  being  the  speak- 
ing voice  of  singer  Jane  Froman,  in  the 
role  of  a  Southern  girl,  Honey  Adams. 
More  than  forty  actresses  had  been  tested, 
thirty  of  them  authentic  Southerners  with 
accents,  before  Virginia  was  chosen — a 
tribute  to  her  vocal  versatility. 


Her  first  radio  role  (vmpaid)  was  in  a 
Thanksgiving  play  in  which  she  played 
an  Indian  maiden  named  Little  Scarface. 
They  telegraphed  all  the  relatives  an- 
nouncing that  event,  and  its  importance 
was  not  to  be  underestimated,  since  it 
probably  was  the  turning  point  for  her 
career.  It  later  led  to  her  being  cast  as 
star  of  the  first  serial  mystery  story  ever 
put  on  the  air,  A  Step  On  The  Stairs — a 
three-station  broadcast,  over  WLW  in  Cin- 
cinnati, KYW  in  Chicago,  and  KDKA  in 
Pittsburgh.  The  cast  was  not  paid,  but 
could  take  cabs  to  and  from  the  broad- 
casts at  studio  expense,  and  all  of  them 
were  sure  they  had  attained  Lunt-Fon- 
tanne  stature  by  this  gesture. 

A  Step  On  The  Stairs  was  directed  by 
Helen  Rose,  and  Virginia  says,  "I  thought 
then,  as  I  do  now,  that  she  was  an  amaz- 
ing person,  with  great  ingenuity  and  in- 
vention, who  could  function  in  any  capa- 
city. She  would  cast  and  direct  plays,  work 
out  all  the  sound  effects  (we  actors  then 
did  them  for  ourselves),  and  she  could 
handle  anything  and  everything.  Working 
with  her  was  wonderful  training  for  me." 

They  did  a  series  of  opera  stories  in 
which  Virginia  played  all  the  heroines — 
"I  died  a  different  way  every  Sunday." 
Virginia  was  active  in  many  parts,  in  many 
different  plays  and  series.  Some  years  later, 
when  Virginia  went  back  to  the  Cin- 
cinnati College  of  Music  to  participate  in 
a  symposium  on  radio,  she  and  Fred 
Smith,  manager  of  WLW,  had  great  fun 
recalling  the  many  types  of  programs  they 
put  on  during  those  days,  and  the  daring 
way  in  which  they  attacked  every  new 
situation. 

In  August  of  1933,  when  Virginia  heard 
that  auditions  would  be  held  for  a  pro- 
posed daytime  serial.  Ma  Perkins,  she 
called  Harry  Holcombe,  now  well  known 
as  an  actor  on  radio,  television  and  stage, 
but  then  directing  at  WLW.  He  said,  sure, 
she  could  come  and  read  for  the  part, 
along  with  the  others.  She  was  number 
five,  and  was  asked  to  wait  while  they 
went  on  auditioning  all  afternoon.  Finally 
three  were  waiting,  then  only  two.  Then 
Virginia  was  chosen — and  so  was  Charles 
Engelston,  who  is  still  the  Shuffle  of  Ma 
Perkins.  Murray  Forbes,  who  is  WiUie, 
Ma's  son-in-law,  joined  the  cast  a  few 
months  later  when  the  show  went  to  the 
network  in  Chicago. 

The  producers  had  a  tough  time  talking 
her  into  the  part,  even  after  the  successful 
audition,  largely  because  she  began  to 
doubt  her  capacity  to  portray  a  woman  like 
Ma  Perkins.  "We  thought  it  would  be  a 
thirteen-week  series,  and  had  I  known 
that  we  would  move  to  Chicago  and  the 
full  network — and,  after  about  thirteen 
years,  to  New  York — I  really  would  have 
been  overwhelmed.  I  had  no  idea  I  was 
beginning  a  whole  career. 

"Charles  Schenck  was  our  first  network 
director,  and  he  helped  me  greatly.  At 
first,  I  felt  that  I  was  inaking  Ma  Perkins 
sound  a  little  harsh,  and  I  kept  reminding 
myself  that  listeners  could  not  see  the 
twinkle  in  her  eye  and  the  little  smile 
playing  around  her  lips  even  when  she 
seemed  to  be  a  bit  gruff,  but  quickly  her 
voice  began  to  match  her  genuine  kind- 
ness and  her  tender  heart." 

The  tremendous  mail  response  to  the 
initial  weeks  of  the  broadcasts  was  largely 
responsible  for  the  decision  to  take  the 
program  to  Chicago  and  continue  it.  People 
fell  in  love  with  Ma  Perkins  at  first  hear- 
ing. They  felt  the  show  was  about  real 
people  they  could  know  and  appreciate. 
So  Virginia  left  home,  set  up  her  own 
apartment  in  the  big  city,  made  new 
friends  to  add  to  the  old  ones,  went  on 
with  her  study  of  voice  at  the  Chicago 
Conservatory  of  Music,  and  became  an  in- 
dependent person.  It  was  in  Chicago,  too, 


I 


that  she  became  president  of  the  local 
AFRA  (American  Federation  of  Radio 
Artists),  which  later  led  to  being  active  in 
AFTRA,  the  organization  which  succeeded 
it  to  include  television. 

One  day,  in  Cincinnati,  before  the  great 
move,  a  woman  was  waiting  to  see  her 
after  the  broadcast.  "My  name  is  Marian 
Jordan,"  she  said.  "I  have  been  in  vaude- 
ville and  radio  all  my  life,  and  I  wanted 
to  tell  you  that,  in  your  Ma  Perkins 
characterization,  you  have  a  fortune  in 
your  pocket.  Don't  ever  let  anyone  change 
anything  about  her."  Virginia  didn't  know 
she  was  talking  to  the  famous  Molly  of 
Fibber  McGee  And  Molly,  only  that  she 
liked  the  woman  very  much,  and  that 
those  were  wonderful  words  of  encourage- 
ment which  meant  a  great  deal  to  her. 

It  was  in  Chicago  that  she  broke  her 
ankle  one  evening,  had  it  set  in  a  hospital 
before  midnight,  and  hobbled  into  the 
broadcast  on  crutches  the  next  day.  She 
holds  a  record  for  not  having  missed  a 
broadcast,  in  more  than  six  thousand  con- 
secutive times. 

In  New  York  for  the  past  ten  years,  she 
had  surrounded  herself  with  the  things 
she  has  picked  up  in  travels  to  many 
countries,  and  with  beautiful  antique  fur- 
niture she  ferrets  out  wherever  she  goes. 
Her  apartment  is  an  entire  floor  in  an 
old  New  York  mansion  on  the  upper  East 
Side.  Off  the  small  kitchen,  at  the  back, 
is  a  terrace  planted  with  roses  in  season, 
and  other  flowers  and  shrubs.  At  the  five- 
room  vacation  cottage  she  has  been  build- 
ing at  Ogunquit,  Maine,  there  is  a  bigger 
garden,  where  she  is  learning  to  "winter" 
the  plantings  and  is  waiting  with  excite- 
ment to  see  how  well  she  has  done.  Two 
roses  have  been  named  for  her — the 
"Virginia  Payne"  of  the  American  Rose 
Growers  Association,  and  the  "Ma  Perkins" 
of  the  Jackson  &  Perkins  rose  growers. 

Addie,  who  has  kept  house  for  Miss 
Payne  for  ten  years,  is  referred  to  as  "a 
treasure."  Addie  was  a  Ma  Perkins  fan 
before  she  ever  met  Virginia  and  had 
always  hoped  to  meet  this  woman  she 
listened  to  every  day  and  admired  so  much. 
"The  whole  cast  has  been  at  the  house 
many  times,  and  I  don't  wish  to  meet  nicer 
people,"  Addie  says.  "They  are  like  a  real 
family  that  has  stayed  together  for  a  long 
time.  I  say  that,  if  everyone  were  like 
Ma  Perkins  and  Miss  Payne,  there  would 
be  no  more  trouble  in  this  world." 

When  Station  WLW,  Cincinnati,  cele- 
brated its  thirtieth  anniversary,  Charles 
Egelston  and  Virginia  returned  for  the 
occasion  and  re-did  the  very  first  broad- 
cast of  the  Ma  Perkins  series,  some  6,000 
scripts  ago!  So  touched  was  Virginia  by 
the  memories  that  crowded  her  heart,  she 
had  difficulty  keeping  Ma  Perkins'  voice  to 
its  usual  calm  level.  When  she  spoke  as 
Virginia  Payne,  home-town  girl  who  had 
won  fame  as  an  actress,  she  let  her  feel- 
ings come  through  and  her  audience  felt 
them,  too.  Among  them  were  those  who 
knew  her  as  the  only  actress  in  a  family 
filled  with  scientists  and  doctors — and  they 
may  have  remembered  something  Mrs. 
Payne  said  when  a  reporter  asked  how 
these  scientific  men  felt  about  the  budding 
actress  of  those  days.  "Frankly,"  Virginia's 
mother  had  told  the  reporter,  "they  were 
quite  bored!" 

No  one,  however,  could  have  been  any- 
thing but  thrilled  by  this  girl  who  had 
taken  on  her  first  radio  assignment  at 
fifteen  and,  since  then,  had  played  many 
diversified  parts,  on  radio  and  on  the 
stage,  with  skill  and  imagination.  No  one 
could  have  been  anything  but  thrilled  by 
a  girl  who,  in  her  early  twenties,  had  taken 
on  the  difficult  role  of  an  elderly  woman — 
and  had  made  that  personality  a  rich  con- 
tribution to  the  radio  listening  of  count- 
less millions. 


most  important  advance  in  girdle  design  in^/  years 


PCTCR  pon 

little  X* 

now  in  "flying"  colors 


complete  figure  control 

plus 

complete  freedom  of  action 


Two  criss-crossing 

stretcli  panels  slim  waist, 

sleek  liips,  smooth  tummy  —  yet 

let  you  move  freely.  Nylon  power  net, 

''dainty  trim.  Girdle,  panty  girdle -lovebird  pink,'' 

bluebird  blue,  sandpiper  beige,  white,  black.  5.95 

And  color  match  your  little  X  with  famous  Hidden  Treasurer- 
bras  in  above  colors.  Finest  cotton  broadcloth.  3.50 


PETER  PAN  FOUNDATIONS,  INC.  •  NEW  YORK  •  MONTREAL 


JREGj  0.  S.  PAT.  OFF^ 


SOO^SS'CHIIDS  Photo 


BIG  DEMAND  by  national  advertisers  for  boys  and 
girls  photos,  all  ages,  from  infants  and  up  to  18 
years.  $500  or  more  PAID  if  used  for  advertising. 
Send  ONE  small  photo  for  approval  &  FREE  GIFTS 
offer.  Print  child's  and  mother's  name,  address  on 
bach.  Returned  in  two  weeks.  NO  OBLIGATION. 
-S^  HOLLYWOOD  AD-PHOTOS  -^ 
6087-HD°Siiiiset  Blvd.,  Hollywood  28,  Calif. 


IMITATION 
DIAMOND    RINGS 

$1.49  each  or  both  for  $2.49 
Gorgeous  Solitatre  and  Wedding: 
Ring  set  with  beautiful  imitation 
diamonds  in  1/30  14  Kt.  Yellow 
Gold  Plated  or  Sterling  Sliver  or 
White  Gold  Color  Effect  on  a 
MONEY  BACK  GUARANTEE.  SEND 
NO  MONEY.  Pay  Postman  on  die- 
livery  plus  postal  charges,  if  you 
send  cash  or  money  order  with 
order,  we  pay  postage. 
HAREM  CO.,  '^'Thc  House  of  Rings." 
30  Church  St.,  Oept.  0121.  New 
York    7,    N.   Y. 


Life  is  thrilling 

when  youWe  a  Rl  []N|]F 

Be  a  fascinating  golden-top — today. 


MARCHAND'S  GOLDEN  HAIR  WASH 


FIND  OUT  what  fun  it  is  to 
be  a  beautiful  blonde.  No 
matter  what  your  hair  color 
now  —  blonde  that's  turned 
mousey  brown,  brunette,  red- 
head —  with  Marchand's 
Golden  Hair  Wash  you  can 
add  a  glow  of  sunshine  or 
lighten  honey  bright.  Golden 
Hair  Wash  is  the  tried-and- 
true  home  hair  lightener  pre- 
ferred for  over  50  years.  Not 
a  dye.  Nothing  extra  to  buy. 
Fine  for  lightening  arm  and 
leg  hair,  too. 


At  drugstores 
everywhere 
75c  and  $1.00 
plus  tax 


T 
V 
R 

77 


(Continued  from  page  38) 
general  store.  And  Mrs.  Goebel  was  always 
a  housewife.  Oh,  she  played  the  piano 
some,  and  even  had  a  few  pupils.  And  I 
must  say  she's  got  quite  a  voice,  especially 
when  she's  scolding.  But  neither  of  us 
ever  thought  of  show  business.  I  was  an 
orphan,  and  Mrs.  Goebel's  father  was  a 
tug-boat  captain  on  the  Chicago  river, 
Capt.  MacDonald.  So  you  can  see  George 
didn't  inherit  any  of  this  theatrical  stuff. 

And  I've  read  a  lot  of  this  high-falutin' 
psychology  stuff,  where  someone  says 
George  is  such  a  good  comedian  because, 
as  a  little  man,  he  has  always  had  to  attract 
attention  by  what  he  did  instead  of  by 
what  he  was  physically.  Now,  this  is  all 
nonsense,  because  George  has  been  funny 
since  he  was  four  years  old.  And  then  he 
was  just  the  same  size  as  every  other 
four-year-old  in  the  neighborhood. 

No,  it's  just  like  I've  always  said.  George 
was  just  born  funny —  and  he  was  born 
in  a  funny  neighborhood,  to  boot.  When 
he  was  born,  we  lived  in  a  flat  over  the 
store,  at  the  corner  of  Waveland  and 
Francisco.  We  just  left  that  flat  last  fall, 
when  we  moved  to  California. 

That  was  in  Irving  Park,  one  of  the 
neighborhoods  on  the  northwest  side  of 
Chicago.  I  guess  you'd  call  it  a  "mixed" 
neighborhood.  There  were  lots  of  Polish 
people  living  there,  and  Jewish  and  Irish 
and  Swedish,  and  lots  of  Germans  like  us 
Goebels.  They'd  all  come  into  the  store, 
and  sit  around  the  stove  on  winter  after- 
noons, or  out  in  front  on  benches  in  the 
summertime.  And,  of  course,  every  one  of 
'em  would  have  stories  to  tell. 

George  used  to  sit  around,  quiet  like, 
and  listen.  Just  listen.  And  he  must  have 
soaked  it  all  in.  Because  every  once  in 
a  while,  since  he  got  to  doing  this  comedy 
stuff,  he's  come  out  with  one  of  those 
stories,  in  the  same  dialect  I  used  to  hear 
Chris  Petersen,  or  Sol  Kaplan,  or  Pat 
McGinnis,  tell  them  in,  back  in  Irving 
Park. 

Except  for  being  such  a  clown,  I  don't 
imagine  George  was  much  different  from 
any  other  boy  his  age.  He'd  spend  his 
summers  "exploring"  the  woods  near  the 
store — there  was  quite  a  bit  of  open 
country  out  that  way  in  that  day.  Winters, 
he  went  to  Cleveland  School,  near  by. 
One  of  his  teachers  there  was  Miss  Frey. 
She's  been  out  to  visit  him  in  California 
twice  in  the  last  couple  of  years — so  I 
guess  he  couldn't  have  made  too  bad  an 
impression  at  school. 

He  spent  all  his  spare  time  at  the 
Neighborhood  Boys  Club,  over  in  Paul 
Revere  Park  on  Irving  Park  Boulevard. 
The  club  was  started  by  Robert  Buehler— 
I  think  he  was  co-owner  of  the  Victor 
Adding  Machine  Company.  In  fine  weather, 
the  boys  would  play  baseball.  George 
played  shortstop,  if  I  remember  rightly. 
He  was  a  "switch"  batter,  although  he 
was  a  "southpaw"  catcher.  And,  right  at 
that  time,  he  wanted  to  grow  up  to  be  a 
big-league  player.  The  kids  went  on 
hiking  trips,  too,  and  did  handicrafts  at 
the  clubhouse  on  rainy  days. 

George   used    to   like   to    ride   his   bike 

around  the  edges  of  the  clay  pits  over  at 

the    brickyard    not    far    from    our    place. 

Till  we  heard  about  it,  that  is,  and  put  a 

stop  to  it.    He'd  try  to  see  just  how  close 

to  the  edge  he  could  ride  without  falling 

in— good    thing    he    never    got    too    close. 

Not   long   ago,   he   was   flying   back   from 

Chicago,    and    his    plane    went    over    the 

Grand  Canyon.    He  says  to  me,  "Pop,  that 

^     looked  just   like   those   clay   pits   used   to 

y    look  to  me  back  in  Irving  Park.    I  swear 

U     they  were  every  bit  as  deep!" 

When  people  want  to  know  how  George 
got  started  on  his  career,  about  the  best 


He's  Funny  That  Way 

answer  I  can  give  is  "when  he  sjf^rted  to 
Sunday  school  at  St.  Stephen's  4)piscopal 
church."  A  neighbor  of  ours,  name  of 
Mr.  Thompson,  took  George  off  to  St. 
Stephen's  with  her  one  Sunday.  He  liked 
it,  kept  on  going  there,  and  pretty  soon 
they  asked  him  to  join  their  children's 
choir.  The  Rev.  St.  John  Tucker  was  the 
pastor  then;  still  is,  so  far  as  I  know. 
He's  real  fond  of  young  people,  and  this 
choir  was  a  fine  group.  George  really 
enjoyed  it.  Oh,  yes — they  called  St. 
Stephen's  "The  Little  Church  at  the  End 
of  the  Road."  It  has  quite  a  story  all  its 
own. 

I  guess  he  must  have  been  about  ten 
years  old  when  the  choir  went  down  to 
the  radio  station,  WLS,  to  sing  one  day. 
They  called  WLS  "The  Prairie  Farmer 
station" — they  used  local  talent  exclu- 
sively, and  had  a  lot  of  hillbilly,  barn- 
dance  type  shows.  The  folks  at  the  sta- 
tion liked  George,  and  before  we  knew 
what  was  happening,  almost,  he  was 
signed  as  a  staff  member  of  WLS.  And 
him  only  ten  years  old! 

Because  he  was  still  going  to  school, 
he  could  work  only  certain  hours,  so  for 
a  while  he  was  mostly  on  a  Saturday 
morning  show.  Later  on,  after  "Little 
Georgie  Goebel"  got  to  be  better  known, 
they  gave  him  an  early-morning  show  all 
his  own.  It  had  to  be  real  early,  so  he'd 
be  through  and  back  in  Irving  Park  in 
time  for  school.  He'd  leave  the  house 
every  morning  at  six  o'clock,  all  by  him- 
self except  for  our  big  collie  dog.  Prince. 
The  dog  would  walk  with  him  to  the 
Kedzie  Avenue  streetcar,  and  when  the 
dog  got  back  home  we'd  know  George 
was  on  the  streetcar  and  on  his  way  to 
work.  He  had  to  make  a  transfer  from 
the  Kedzie  car  to  go  east  to  the  WLS 
studios  on  Washington  Boulevard,  but  he 
was  always  such  a  self-sufficient  kid,  we 
never  even  thought  about  fretting  over 
his  going  all  that  way  alone. 

Lots  of  people  get  all  worked  up  about 
only  children  being  spoiled,  but  I  don't 
think  George  was  spoiled,  even  if  he 
never  did  have  any  brothers  or  sisters. 
Because  I'd  been  an  orphan,  I  made  sure 
George  had  the  love  and  security  only 
parents  can  give. 

Oh,  the  Uhlick  Orphans'  Home  where 
I'd  been  brought  up  wasn't  like  a  lot  of 
orphans'  homes  of  that  day,  I  will  say. 
It  was  located  then  at  Burling  and  Center 
Streets.  They  renamed  Center  Street 
later,  called  it  Armitage  Avenue.  There 
was  love  and  plenty  of  good  care,  but  it 
wasn't  the  same  as  if  we'd  each  had  our 
own  folks. 

When  I  was  about  fourteen,  I  went  out 
to  a  farm  at  Eustis,  Nebraska,  to  live. 
That's  near  Lincoln.  I  worked  there  about 
a  year,  and  then  came  back  to  Chicago. 
I  got  a  job  learning  the  window -trimming 
trade  when  I  was  fifteen.  Worked  for 
the  old  A.  M.  Rothschild  store,  at  Jackson 
and  State.  I  guess  I  must  have  lived 
pretty  simply— anyway,  I  had  enough 
saved  up  in  five  years  to  open  the  store 
out  at  Waveland  and  Francisco. 

One  of  my  customers  was  Lillian  Mac- 
Donald.  I'd  deliver  her  groceries,  and  get 
in  a  little  courting  at  the  same  time.  Be- 
fore long,  we  were  married.  When  I  want 
to  tease  her,  I  tell  her  I  married  her  be- 
cause I  couldn't  afford  to  hire  a  clerk  I 
needed  then  for  the  store. 

After  I  got  that  store,  one  of  the  things 
I  was  able  to  do  was  to  pay  back  a  little 
on  the  debt  I  felt  I  had  to  the  Uhlick 
home.  Not  just  money— but  affection.  I'U 
bet  there  were  a  hundred  kids  from  that 
home  who  used  to  call  on  me  regularly. 
Not  all  at  the  same  time,  you  understand, 
but   in   little   groups   of   five    or   ten.    I'd 


treat  them  like  they  were  my  own. 

I've  always  loved  kids.  Even  now, 
though  we've  been  here  with  George  only 
a  few  weeks  while  our  house  is  getting 
remodeled,  I  know  aU  the  kids  in  the 
neighborhood.  I  tease  them  about  being 
"ugly,"  so  they've  nicknamed  me  "Hand- 
some Herb." 

No,  I  don't  think  we  ever  spoiled 
George.  Love  and  trust  and  security  don't 
spoil  a  kid.  We  just  expected  him  to  be- 
have himself,  and  he  did.  It  was  that 
simple.  We  never  gave  him  an  allow- 
ance. But,  if  he  needed  money,  he  al- 
ways knew  he  could  help  himself  to  some  L 
from  the  cash  register.  Same  thing  with  | 
the  stock. 

He  worked  some  around  the  place,  sort 
of  as  a  stock  boy  in  the  store.  But  I  don't 
remember  he  ever  was  any  keener  for 
work  than  any  other  boy  his  age.  Did  it 
if  he  was  asked — but  was  pretty  careful 
about  volunteering. 

Just  before  WLS  signed  him,  he  ap- 
peared in  some  Saturday-morning  kid 
shows  at  the  Commodore  Theater,  there 
in  Irving  Park.  He  got  a  big  thrill  out  of 
this,  as  I  recall.  You  see  he'd  been  going 
to  those  shows  for  several  years,  paying 
ten  cents  to  get  in.  Now,  as  one  of  the 
entertainers,  he  got  in  free.   He  liked  that. 

He'd  been  singing  around  at  weddings 
for  a  couple  of  years,  too.  I  guess  the 
first  song  he  ever  sang  "professionally" 
was  "Oh  Promise  Me."  He'd  sing  at 
Polish  weddings,  Jewish,  German  or  Irish 
weddings.  I  don't  imagine  he  ever  got 
more  than  a  dollar  or  two,  if  he  was  paid 
at  all.  But  it  was  good  training,  standing 
up  in  front  of  an  audience. 

Then  for  a  while  he  worked  on  Radio 
Station  WMAQ.  He  did  kid  parts  in  the 
old  Tom  Mix  radio  show  on  the  NBC  net- 
work. He  was  the  one  who'd  always  pipe 
up,  "I'll  hold  your  horse,  Tom,"  or  "They 
went  thataway,  Tom." 

After  he  got  started  on  WLS,  he'd  make 
the  rounds  of  the  county  fairs,  there  in 
northern  and  central  Illinois,  whenever 
they  were  held  on  weekends  so  he  didn't 
have  to  miss  school.  He'd  learned  a  lot 
of  cowboy  and  hillbilly  songs  by  this  time, 
things  like  "Beneath  the  Lonely  Mound 
of  Clay"  and  "Billy  Richards'  Last  Ride." 
Gene  Autry  and  Red  Foley  were  with 
WLS  then,  and  they  taught  him  a  lot  of 
songs.  So  did  the  other  folks  at  the  sta- 
tion. I  remember  how  they  used  to  trade 
song  books  around  like  kids  trade  comic 
books  nowadays. 

It's  funny,  but  most  of  George's  close 
friends  in  California  nowadays  are  those 
same  people  who  used  to  be  on  WLS 
when  he  was.  Autry  and  Foley  both  live 
out  in  the  Valley,  same  as  he  does.  And 
there's  Pat  Buttram,  Curt  Massey,  Rex 
Allen,  and  the  fellows  who  called  them- 
selves the  "Hoosier  Hot  Shots."  They're 
all  out  here  now. 

It  was  while  George  was  with  WLS 
that  he  made  his  first  phonograph  record. 
It  was  under  the  Sears,  Roebuck  label, 
and  he  was  "Little  Georgie  Goebel"  on  it. 
It  had  a  guitar  accompaniment  played  by 
Gene  Autry,  except  Gene  didn't  get  any 
mention  on  the  label.  The  record  was 
one  of  those  real  thick  ones  they  used 
to  make.  I  hear  it's  what  they  caU  a  "col- 
lector's item"  nowadays — people  pay  fancy 
prices  for  it  whenever  they  find  a  copy. 
I  can't  imagine  why. 

One  of  the  big  thrills  for  George  about 
that  time  was  appearing  on  the  Christmas 
kiddies'  show  at  the  State-Lake  Theater 
down  in  the  Loop.  This  was  about  like 
playing  the  Palace  Theater  in  New  York, 
I  guess.  For  this  one  show,  the  regular 
vaudeville  bill  was  filled  out  with  kids 
from  Chicago.    I  recall  Mrs.  Goebel  went 


downtown  with  him  on  the  streetcar  that 
morning.  We  had  a  car  then,  but  Mrs. 
Goebel  didn't  drive,  and  Saturday  morn- 
ing was  too  busy  at  the  store  for  me  to 
take  time  off  for  that  kind  of  nonsense. 

A  few  years  later,  when  he  was  sixteen, 
George  bought  his  first  car.  A  new  Hud- 
son sedan,  it  was,  and  was  he  ever  proud 
of  it!  He  didn't  drive  it  himself,  for  sev- 
eral years — one  of  the  fellows  from  WLS 
would  come  out  and  drive  it  whenever 
George  had  a  county-fair  date  or  some- 
thing to  play.   But  he  sure  loved  that  car! 

Things  went  pretty  fast  for  George  the 
next  couple  of  years.  He  was  working  a 
lot,  and  going  to  school,  too,  of  course. 
He  went  on  to  Roosevelt  High  School, 
after  he  finished  at  Cleveland  Grammar 
school.  About  the  only  brush  with  theat- 
ricals he  had  at  Roosevelt  was  playing 
Ralph  Rackstraw,  the  tenor  lead  in  the 
Gilbert  and  Sullivan  operetta,  "H.M.S. 
Pinafore."  He  wasn't  any  great  shakes 
as  a  scholar,  but  he  got  average  grades, 
and  I've  always  figured  that  that  was 
pretty  good,  considering  how  much  time 
he  spent  working  outside  school. 

It  was  while  he  was  going  to  Cleveland 
Grammar  School  that  he  met  Alice.  Her 
father,  Anthony  Humecke,  worked  in  the 
Chicago  post  office.  I  guess  George  liked 
Alice  right  off,  but  it  was  several  years 
before  she'd  pay  him  any  attention.  Be- 
cause she  sat  at  the  end  of  the  same  row 
George  was  in,  Alice  was  the  one  who 
always  picked  up  the  homework  every 
day.  George  remembers  trying  to  attract 
her  attention  mainly  by  trying  to  trip  her. 
This  must  have  been  tike  wrong  approach; 
she  says  now  she  used  to  think  he  was 
an  awful  show-off. 

I  guess  it  got  so  this  didn't  matter  so 
much  to  her  after  they  started  going  to 
Roosevelt  High  School.  They  started  dat- 
ing, and  it  wasn't  too  long  after  they  were 
out  of  school  before  they  were  married. 
They  moved  some,  around  to  different 
apartments,  like  a  lot  of  young  couples. 
But  they  always  stayed  in  Irving  Park, 
and  not  far  from  us.  Later  on  they  bought 
a  little  house,  out  on  Peoria  Street — but 
that  wasn't  till  after  the  war. 

George  bought  a  plane.  He  kept  the 
plane  out  at  Sky  Harbor  airport,  and 
learned  to  fly  it.  He  used  to  fly  around 
and  around  and  around,  over  ihe  store, 
so  that  we'd  know  it  was  him  in  the 
plane.  We'd  all  go  outside,  and  Mrs. 
Goebel  would  wave  a  tea  towel,  and  we'd 
all  get  a  thrill  out  of  knowing  it  was  our 
boy  up  there  flying  that  plane.  He  says 
he  used  to  be  able  to  find  our  place,  from 
up  there,  by  first  sighting  the  big  chim- 
ney on  the  Edison  Power  plant  at  Addison 
and  California  Streets,  near  by. 

Then  George  enlisted  in  the  Air  Force, 
and  they  sent  him  down  to  Frederick, 
Oklahoma,  where  he  helped  train  B-26 
pilots.  He  was  down  there  when  little 
Gregg  was  bom,  back  in  1945.  I  remem- 
ber that,  when  George  came  home  to  see 
Alice  in  the  hospital  after  that  first  child 
was  bom,  he  couldn't  afford  to  take  the 
limousine  or  a  taxi  to  the  Loop.  So  he 
took  the  streetcar,  had  to  transfer  foiir 
times,  and  the  trip  from  the  airport  to 
the  hospital  took  him  longer  than  the 
plane  flight  had  from  Oklahoma  to 
Chicago! 

It  was  while  he  was  in  service  that  he 
turned  into  a  comedian.  He'd  just  been 
a  singer  and  guitar  player  up  to  then. 
But  he  used  to  entertain  at  the  officers' 
club,  playing  his  guitar  and  singing.  To 
sort  of  string  things  out — they  were  short 
on  entertainers — he  got  started  telling 
stories.  Just  funny  stories  he'd  heard  at 
one  time  or  another.  He  was  pretty  un- 
certain, though,  about  the  way  his  audi- 
ence would  take  these.  And  he'd  sort  of 
hesitate,  hvmting  for  the  right  word  to 
make   a  story   really  go   over.    All  of  a 


FAT  GIRLS'  DIET 

And  Other  Practical  Proved  Ways  To  Take  Off  Fat 
Sent  To  You  By  Mail  In  Plain  Wrapper  At  Special  Prices 


D  SPECIAL    DIET    for    FAT    STOMACHS    AND 
WAISTLINES- 

If  it's  your  stomach  and  waistline 

bothering   you,    here's   your   dietl 

THICK 

....25# 

D  SPECIAL  DIET  FOR  FAT  HIPS  AND  THIGHS- 

If  your  weight  Is  below  the  waist 

this   diet  will   slim   you 

D  DEHYDRATION  DIET 

FOR  GIRLS  WHO  CRAVE  SWEETS 

The  fastest  and  most  pleasant  of  alll 

Helps   fiflit  your  worst   enemy! 

D  POPULAR  "9-DAY  MIRACLE"  DIET- 

If  you  have  9  lbs  to  lose,  this  will 

do    it!    A    fast    start    for   90! 

D  HIGH  PROTEIN  DIET  FOR  WOMEN 

Lets  you  eat  more  and  these  foods 

keep   up   your  pep  and   energy 

D  POUND  A  DAY  "MIRACLE"  DIET- 

An  infallible  diet  that  insures  the  loss  of 

at  least  a  lb.  a  day!  Can  be  repeated 

3   days    each   month 

...25< 

D  HOW  TO  STAY  THIN  AFTER  LOSING  FAT- 

Getting   thin   Is   one   thing — staying 

thin   another  1  This   tells  you   how! 

D  "SECRETS"  TO  SPEED  REDUCING- 

Important   "little   things"   discovered 

in    18    years'    reducing    experience! 

....25<! 
....25# 

...25t 
...25t 

D  ONE-DAY  ALL  LIQUID  DIET- 

How  to  lose  a  few  pounds  fast  and  safely 

....25t 

...25t 

D  LARGE  BUSTS-HOW  TO  REDUCE- 

The  only  sure  .   .  .  only  safe  method 

to    reduce    large    busts 

...,25(5 

D  HOW  TO  KEEP  ON  A  DIET  WITHOUT  SUFFERI 

Excellent  help  to  keep  you  on  your  diet 

until    desired    weight    is    lost ! 

NG 

....25* 
.;..25(( 

...25t 

D 

5  P0UND-10  DAY  DIET- 

Takes  off  ',  lbs.   in  10  days!  May  be 

repeated    every    month  1 

...25t 

D  FAMOUS  BANANA   DIET- 

World   renowned  medical  hospital   diet, 
very  ailing,   satisfying,   easy   to  follow, 
takes   weight   off   rapidly 

D 

DIET  "TRICKS"  FOR  OFFICE  WORKERS- 

A  new  Pfahler  diet  to  help  office  workers 

who  must  carry  their  lunch  or  those 

who  eat  in  restaurants    

...25i 

D  WHY  BE  HUNGRY?  EAT  ALL  YOU  WANT 

of  foods  listed  in  this  booklet.  Get 

as  slim  as  you  want! 

D 

RECIPES  FOR  MAIN  DISH  MEALS- 

Deliciously  different!   Easy  to  prepare 

...25t 

CHECK  THE  DIETS  YOU  WANT  AND  SEND  FOR  PROMPT  DELIVERY.  ENCLOSE  COIN.  MONEY  ORDER  or 
CHECK.  Any  FIVE  mailed  to  you  for  only  $1,  postpaid.  Any  TEN  mailed  to  you  for  only  $2,  postpaid.  ALL  16  diets  for 
$3,   postpaid.   No  orders  under  $1.   MONEY   BACK   GUARANTEE. 

GIVEN:  Weight  and    Height  Chart  PLUS    Measurement  Chart! 

I 1 

RUTH  PFAHLER,  Dept.  3501,  Decatur,  Illinois 

I  am  enclosing   If   I   have  checked   FIVE   items,   please  send  them   to  me  for  $1. 

If  I  have   checked   TEN    items,    please    send   them    for   only    $2. 
If  I  have  checked   all    16    items,    please   send    them    for  S3. 


NAME 

ADDRESS.. 


DIRECT  TO  YOU  .  .  .  EASY  TERMS 

Genuine  Rockdale  Monuments  and 
Markers.  Full  Price  $14.95  and  up. 
Satisfaction  or  MONEY  BACK. 
We  pay  freight.  Compare  our  low 
prices.  Write  for  FREE  CATALOG. 
ROCKDALE  MONUIMENT  CO. 

DEPT.  4'47  -        JOLIET,  ILLINOIS 

YOU'D  NEVER  KNOW  I  HAP 

For  24  years  psoriasis  suf- 
ferers   have    learned    that 
Siroil  tends  to  remove  un- 
sighdy  external  crusts  and 
scales.    If  lesions   recur, 
light    applications  of 
Siroil  help  control  them. 
Siroil  won't  stain  cloth- 
ing   or    bed  linens. 
Offered  on  2-weeks- 
satisfaction-    4 
or-money- 
refunded  basis. 


SIROIL 


Write  for  new  free  book- 
|let,  written  by  registered 
Iphysician.  It  answers  30 
Fmost   asked    questions 

about  psoriasis. 

P  SIROIL  LABORATORIES.  INC.  "j 

I  Dept.  M-86  Santa  Monica,  Calif.  | 

I  Pleue  send  me  your  new  free  booklet  on  PSORIASIS. 

I  NAME 

I  ADDRESS 

■  CITY S 


I 

Please  Print        | 

1 


FREE  BOOK-on 
Rectal  Troubles 


Here  is  good  news.  This  130-page,  up-to- 
the-minute  book  on  Piles,  Fistula,  and  other 
related  rectal  and  colon  ailments — will  be 
sent  free  for  the  asking.  It  may  save  you 
much  suffering,  time  and  money.  Write 
today— McCleary  Clinic  and  Hospital,  423 
Elms  Blvd.,  Excelsior  Springs  1,  Mo. 

TALKING  PHOTOGRAPHS 

of  Your  Favorite  Stars 
Now,  hear  your  screen  idols  spealc 
directly  to  you,  in  your  own  home  I 
Star  Talk  now  brings  you  a  spoken 
message  on  an  autographed  photo  of 
your  Hollywood  favorites,  all  in  one  beautiful 
star,  with  a  special  sfond-up  platform. 

Dramatic  introductory  offer! 

Special:   V/ilh   every  fk         STAR       t| 

$2,00   order,   a   complete       -         '         '"'"'  " 
catologue    of    Star    Talk. 


2     STAR     <m 
TALK      "  ■ 
PHOTOS  for! 


_ r ;■ 11 

1  STAR  TALK,    INC.                    SEND  FOR.  YOUR       | 

1  Suite  1396 

78  RPM  STAR  TALK      j 

1  11  W.  42nd  St., 

TODAY!           i>  I 

1  New  York,  N.Y 

1        Please  send  me 

fhe.following  STAR  TALK  records:        | 

1  D  lixet  leieli 
[  n  SalMineo 
•  O  lane  Russell 
1  Q  RissStevsiB 

n  Fernanilij  lamai      D  Jack  lord            j 
1  Farley  Brangei        D  Qitf  Rrtertson      | 
3  Vincent  Wee          O  Imgtan  Honriw    ■ 
H  Johnny  Oesmond      D  Knidip  Singti         { 

1  1  have  endosed  S 

1 

to  (over  the  records  chetked  obove.    ■ 

'   K|nmo 

1 

1   ^r|Hre5C 

1   Tity 

Stotfi                ...    .  • 

L,_^ ! 

T 
V 
R 

79 


Save  $1.00  Under 
Newsstand  Prices 


I Mail  This  Coupon  Today j 

TV  RADIO  MIRROR,  TV  4-57 

205  East  42  St.,  N.Y.  17,  N.  Y. 

Yes!   Enter  my  bargain  subscription  at  once. 
D  Send  me  16  months  of  TV  Radio  Mirror 

for  $3.   *2  extra  issues  if  you  send  payment 

with  order. 
*n  I  enclose  $3  as  payment  in  full.  D  Bill  me. 


(Please  Print) 


Name 

Address 

City.  . Zone.  .  .State. 


SUFFERERS 
FROM 


l:lliMi^H 


(SCALY    SKIN    TROUBLEI 

^DeRmoiL 


SEE  FOR  YOURSELF 
no  matter  how  long  you 
have  suffereti.  Write  for 
^  FREE  book  on  Paoriasia 
^  and  DERMOIL  with 
,  actual  "betore — after" 
y  photo  record  of  resulta. 


S&u/ffvr 
yGENEROUS 

Atrial 

SIXE 


T 
V 
R 

80 


Don't  be  embarrassed 

with  Psoriasis,  the  ugly. 

scaly  sifin  disease.   Try 

non-staining    DERMOIL. 

Amazing  results  reported 

for  over  22  yearal  Many 

grateful    users   report    the  ^ 

scaly  red  patches  on  body  ^^^^^^^ 

or  scalp  gradually  disappeared  and  they^^^^^^^   ."n** 

again  enjoyed  the  thrill  of  a  smooth  clear  ekln.  DERMOIL 

formula  Is  u?ed    by   many  doctors.    Must  givu  definite 

beneflt  or  your  money  back.  Make  our  famous  "One  Spot 

TeafI    SEND  10c  for  trial  bottle.  DERMOIL  sold  at 

Liggett  and  Walgreen  and  other  leading  Drug  Stores. 

Write  today  LAKE  LABORATORIES  Dept.  3004 

Box    3925    Strathmoor     Station,    Detroit    27,     Mich. 


sudden  he  realized  that  this  hesitating 
was  what  was  getting  the  laughs.  So  he 
worked  on  it  a  while,  and  that  was  the 
way  he  developed  the  style  he's/ famous 
for  nowadays.  The  one  where'^he  says, 
"Well,  maybe  not  .  .  ."  You  know  the  way 
he  does  it. 

After  he  got  out  of  the  service,  most  of 
the  pilots  were  hunting  jobs  with  the  air- 
lines. But  with  George  it  was  different. 
He  sort  of  thought  he'd  like  to  get  back 
into  show  business.  And  he  figured  may- 
be this  new  comedy  stuff  he'd  built  up 
in  the  service  might  go  over.  None  of  the 
agents  he  called  on  in  Chicago  felt  that 
way,  though.  Not  until  he  got  to  the  David 
P.  O'Malley  office.  Dave  booked  talent  for 
what  they  called  industrial  dates — big 
conventions,  sales  meetings,  that  kind  of 
thing. 

George  struck  Dave  as  being  pretty 
funny,  with  that  frozen-face  delivery  of 
his.  So  Dave  took  a  chance,  and  booked 
George  for  a  big  U.S.O.  show  there  in 
Chicago.  This  was  an  easy  audience  for 
George — after  al^^  he'd  been  playing  to 
soldiers  for  several  years,  and  he  knew 
what  they  thought  was  funny.  Then  Dave 
sent  him  off  to  a  convention  show  in 
Grand  Rapids,  Michigan,  and  though  it 
was  a  different  type  audience,  George 
still  made  a  hit. 

After  that,  Dave  kept  George  pretty 
busy  with  bookings.  Sometimes  he'd  play 
two  or  three  dates  in  a  single  evening. 
He'd  do  his  act  for  the  Funeral  Directors' 
association  at  the  Stevens  Hotel  at  8 
o'clock,  for  instance,  and  then  he'd  dash 
across  the  Loop  to  the  Sherman  Hotel, 
where  he'd  go  on  at  ten  o'clock  before 
the  Plumbing  Contractors'  association.  He 
was  a  pretty  busy  boy. 

Building  up  from  those  industrial  dates, 
Dave  booked  George  into  some  of  the 
night  clubs  .  nd  hotel  dining  rooms  across 
the  country.  He  almost  became  a  fixture 
at  Helsing's  Vodvil  Lounge,  up  on  Mon- 
trose Avenue  and  Sheridan  Road  in  Chi- 
cago. Bill  and  Frank  Helsing  owned  the 
restaurant  then.  I  understand  it  was  sold 
last  fall,  and  is  now  called  the  Flamingo. 
Sam  Honigberg  was  doing  publicity  for 
Helsing's  then;  that's  where  George  met 
him.  They  got  to  be  real  good  friends,  and 
when  George  moved  out  to  California  a 
couple  of  years  ago,  Sam  and  his  family 
moved  out,  too.  Of  course,  Dave  O'Malley 
did  too — he  and  George  formed  Gomalco, 
the  company  that  handles  all  George's 
business.  Sam  still  handles  George's  pub- 
licity. 

But  I'm  getting  a  little  ahead  of  my 
story.  There  in  Chicago,  George  played 
at  the  Walnut  Room  of  the  Bismarck 
Hotel,  too.  And  Dave  got  him  bookings 
at  the  Waldorf-Astoria  and  the  Hotel 
Pierre  in  New  York,  the  Raddison  in 
Minneapolis,  and  the  Chase  Hotel  in  St. 
Louis.  I  never  saw  any  of  these  places, 
but  from  what  I  hear  tell,  they're  pretty 
fancy.  Then  he  came  back  to  Chicago, 
and  played  the  Marine  Dining  Room  at 
the  Edgewater  Beach  Hotel,  and  at  the 
Empire  Room  of  the  Palmer  House,  like 
I  mentioned  before. 

It  was  about  along  in  here  he  started 
showing  up  on  television  now  and  then. 
He  was  a  guest  on  the  Garry  Moore 
Show,  and  Ed  Sullivan's  Toast  Of  The 
Town,  and  on  Who  Said  That?  and  This 
Is  Show  Business,  all  in  1952.  The  next 
year,  he  was  on  seven  weeks  in  NBC's 
summer  show.  The  Saturday  Night  Revue. 
That's  the  one  that  had  Hoagy  Carmichael 
as  master  of  ceremonies,  and  I  guess  that's 
the  one  that  did  it.  Anyway,  in  the  fall 
of  1954,  NBC  started  George  on  his  own 
weekly  show. 

A  couple  of  weeks  after  his  show 
started,  he  did  a  spot  on  the  special 
"Diamond  Jubilee  of  Light,"  produced  by 
David  O.  Selznick  and  shown  on  all  three 


networks.  George  got  up  there  and  made 
like  he  was  explaining  the  electronic 
brain — only,  of  course,  neither  he  nor  his 
audience  could  make  head  or  tails  of  it. 
In  the  original  plans  for  that  show, 
George's  act  was  schedxiled  for  six  min- 
utes. But  at  rehearsals  he  started  horsing 
around,  ad-libbing  and  stuff,  and  what  do 
you  know  but  Selznick  told  him  to  keep 
a  lot  of  that  foolishness  in.  So  when  the 
show  was  broadcast,  George  was  on  that 
screen  for  twelve  minutes!  And  that's  a 
long  time. 

Next  day,  a  lot  of  the  critics  were  raving 
about  him,  calling  him  a  "new  Robert 
Benchley."  I  don't  know  much  about  this 
Benchley  fellow — it  was  just  the  same 
old  George  Goebel  so  far  as  I  was  con- 
cerned. 

Oh,  yes — about  that  name.  When  George 
was  born,  it  was  George  Goebel.  He  used 
it  that  way  all  the  time  he  was  at  WLS, 
and  through  the  Army.  But  when  he  be- 
came a  standard  act,  he  found  out  that  a 
lot  of  people  weren't  sure  how  to  pro- 
nounce it.  So  he  just  dropped  out  that 
"e,"  so's  they'd  make  sure  to  pronounce 
it  right.  I  didn't  mind  him  changing  it. 
Like  he  said,  "After  all.  Pop,  I'm  no  Gable, 
and  that's  the  way  lots  of  people  are 
pronouncing  it  with  that  'e'  in  it."  I  stiU 
keep  that  extra  "e"  in  Goebel.  After  all, 
it's  not  me  that's  famous,  and  everybody 
/  know  pronounces  it  right. 

I  think  maybe  the  biggest  thrill  George 
has  had  since  he  got  famous  was  when 
he  went  back  to  Chicago  about  a  year 
ago  for  "George  Gobel  Day."  Dick  Valen- 
tine, the  director  of  the  Neighborhood 
Boys  Club,  brought  a  bus-load  of  kids 
from  the  club  out  to  the  airport  to  meet 
George.  They  even  brought  along  his  old 
baseball  uniform — ^number  138,  it  was. 
And  darned  if  he  wasn't  able  to  squeeze 
into  it!  Wore  it  on  the  trip  back  into 
town. 

Then  he  went  back  to  WLS,  and  every- 
body he  ever  knew  came  to  talk  to  him, 
and  congratulate  him  on  becoming  such 
a  success,  and  all  that.  He'd  just  finished 
his  first  movie,  "The  Birds  and  the  Bees," 
and  I  suppose  the  trip  might  have  been 
considered  a  publicity  tour  for  that  pic- 
ture. But,  so  far  as  George  and  the  rest 
of  us  were  concerned,  it  was  Old  Home 
Week  for  sure. 

He  did  another  movie  last  summer — "I 
Married  a  Woman"  they  called  it.  In  the 
first  one,  he  played  opposite  Mitzi  Gaynor. 
In  this  second  one,  it  was  Diana  Dors  and 
Nita  Talbot.  And  he  has  the  nerve  to 
claim  he  "works"! 

When  George  went  on  TV  with  his  show 
regular,  he  moved  out  to  California. 
Alice's  mother  came  out  with  them — Mr. 
Humecke  passed  away  several  years 
earlier.  George  and  Alice  kept  writing 
back  about  how  wonderful  the  climate 
was,  and  sJl,  and  I  guess  Mrs.  Goebel  and 
I  got  the  bug  ourselves.  I'd  sold  out  the 
business  about  ten  years  ago,  but  Mrs. 
Goebel  and  I  had  stayed  on  in  the  flat 
above  the  store. 

There  wasn't  anything  really  keeping 
us  back  there,  and  those  Chicago  winters 
and  summers  can  be  pretty  fierce.  Be- 
sides, we  got  sort  of  lonesome  for  our 
three  grandchildren.  So  we  decided  to 
sell  the  building,  and  come  out  here  to 
live.  I  miss  my  friends  pretty  much,  but 
I  must  say  George  was  right  about  the 
climate. 

Like  I  said  to  begin  with,  I  figure  George 
is  a  pretty  lucky  boy.  He's  doing  pretty 
much  just  the  same  thing  he  did  back 
there  for  free  in  the  Army,  but  look  what 
he's  getting  paid  now!  They  tell  me  his 
house  isn't  "fancy,"  like  lots  of  television 
and  movie  stars  have.  But  it  looks  pretty 
good  to  me.  After  all,  we  never  had  any 
swimming  pool  in  the  back  yard  at  the 
place  in  Irving  Park! 


Happiness  Plus 


(Continued  from  page  43) 
they  spoke  their  vows  together.  But  they 
knew  their  married  life  was  going  to  be 
even  more  wonderful,  when  they  could 
hold  their  first-born  in  their  arms.  They 
wanted  nothing  to  mar  that  moment.  For 
Debbie,  her  pregnancy  was  a  happy  time, 
unmarred  by  illness  or  fear.  The  deliv- 
ery itself  proved  to  be  comparatively  easy, 
when  the  time  came.  But  the  time  came 
at  Carrie's  choosing — not  Debbie's  and  Ed- 
die's. 

Debbie  and  Eddie  were  weekending  in 
Palm  Springs  when  they  knew  that  the 
time  was  at  hand.  Fortunately,  their 
obstetrician.  Dr.  Charles  C.  Levy,  was  in 
the  desert  resort  town  with  them.  Eddie 
had  been  foresighted  enough  to  insist  that 
they  not  leave  town  without  him. 

A  Httle  after  midnight,  on  October  21, 
the  excited  parents-to-be  climbed  into  Dr. 
Levy's  car  and,  with  the  doctor  at  the 
wheel,  made  their  way  to  St.  Joseph's,  one 
hundred  and  fifty  miles  away.  Eddie  held 
Debbie's  hand,  and  she  managed  fre- 
quent happy  smiles  to  encourage  him. 
Early  reports  said  they  "raced,"  which 
wasn't  true.  Debbie  was  comfortable  and 
there  was  plenty  of  time,  so  they  drove  at 
safe,  normal  speeds  all  the  way.  They 
made  excellent  time,  however,  since  the 
Los  Angeles  to  Palm  Springs  highway  is 
not  jammed  with  traffic  at  that  time  of 
night.  It  was  just  foiur  A.M. — on  Carrie's 
birthday — ^when  they  arrived  in  Burbank. 

Eddie  stayed  with  his  wife  almost  until 
the  deadline,  and  the  awed  excitement 
and  tremendous  surge  of  love  they  shared 
in  those  two  hours  of  closeness  is  some- 
thing neither   of  them  will   ever  forget. 

By  the  time  Debbie  was  rolled  into  the 
delivery  room — some  friends  and  family 
had  gathered  in  the  hospital  waiting  room. 
Debbie's  parents,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Raymond 
Francis  Reynolds.  (Eddie's  father  and 
mother  were  both  in  the  East,  and  he 
called  them  as  soon  as  he  could  speak  co- 
herently after  Carrie  made  her  debut.) 
Monte  Proser,  producer  of  the  Coke  Time 
shows.  Eddie's  press  secretary,  Gloria 
Luckenbill,  and  her  husband  Phil.  Ed- 
die's boyhood  friends,  Bemie  Rich  and 
Joey  Foreman — ^now  actors  in  Hollywood. 

Eddie  spoke  with  his  pals,  smiled  in  re- 
sponse to  their  murmured  encourage- 
ment, but  he  didn't  really  hear  much  of 
what  was  said.  His  thoughts  were  with 
Debbie,  and  their  child.  When  Dr.  Levy 
appeared  in  the  waiting  room  in  his 
surgical  gown,  Eddie  leaped  up,  his  face 
going  white.  "Not  yet,"  the  surgeon  told 
him,  "but  it's  getting  close  to  the  time." 
He  told  Eddie  that  now  he  could  go  up 
and  wait  outside  the  delivery  room  on  the 
fifth  floor. 

Eddie  heard  his  daughter's  first  cry  at 
exactly  12:40  P.M.  Five  minutes  later, 
he  was  holding  a  tiny,  blanketed — and 
noisy — bundle  in  his  arms.  With  some- 
thing akin  to  awe,  his  eyes  filling,  he 
looked  into  the  little  face.  After  a  mo- 
ment, the  baby  quieted  and  opened  her 
eyes.  How  little  she  is,  he  thought,  how 
sweet.  What  was  eating  those  guys,  any- 
way, the  ones  who  said  that  all  new  babies 
looked  like  wrinkled  old  men?  Not  his 
baby,  not  Debbie's.  She  was  .  .  .  she  was 
beautiful. 

The  white-masked  nurse  held  out  her 
arms  for  the  child,  and  headed  for  the 
nursery.  As  they  disappeared  behind  a 
heavy  sound-proof  door,  Carrie  was  again 
kicking  and  crying  lustily. 

Dazed  from  the  impact  of  his  first  few 
moments  of  fatherhood,  Eddie  didn't  hear 
the  rubber-tired  approach  of  the  hospital 
cart  tmtil  it  was  almost  upon  him.  "Hi," 
a  small,  weary  but  exultant  voice  said, 
and  he  wheeled  to  see  his  wife.    Debbie 


was  pale  from  her  ordeal  but  smiling. 
"Their  embrace  was  wordless.  Their  emo- 
tions were  too  strong — just  then — for 
words. 

Their  days  in  the  hospital  were  a  blur  of 
almost  miraculous  happiness  for  Debbie. 
She  had  a  brief  glimpse  of  Carrie  before 
the  baby  was  carried  from  the  delivery 
room,  enough  to  know  that  she  was  "per- 
fect"— and  perfectly  beautiful.  Debbie 
was  absolutely  triimiphant  late  in  the 
afternoon  of  Carrie's  first  day,  when  moth- 
er and  child  met  for  a  longer  time  and 
Debbie  discovered  that  she  was  going  to  be 
able  to  nurse  her  child. 

Eddie  had  his  triumphs,  too,  as  he 
brought  Debbie's  family  and  all  their 
closest  friends,  one  or  two  at  a  time,  to 
visit  the  hospital,  and  admire  the  mirac- 
ulous new  creature  behind  the  glass  wall 
of  the  nursery.  Bringing  Debbie  and  Car- 
rie home  was  even  better.  After  Carrie 
had  cozied  up  in  her  ruffled  bassinette  and 
popped  off  to  sleep  as  though  she  already 
knew  that  everything  here  was  going  to  be 
all  right,  Eddie  sat  by  Debbie's  bed  in  the 
big  master  bedroom  and  they  talked 
quietly  and  with  full  hearts  of  the  new 
dimension  in  their  lives. 

They  would  not  plan  for  her,  just  yet, 
they  decided.  No  important  decisions 
would  be  made  about  her  future  \intil 
Carrie  herself  was  big  enough  to  have  a 
voice  in  her  own  affairs.  They  would  just 
see  to  it  that  she  had  a  happy,  healthy 
start. 

And,  ultimately,  a  brother,  a  sister.  They 
had  always  said  they  wanted  a  big  family. 
Now  they  would  have  to — for  Carrie's 
sake.  It  would  not  be  fair  to  bring  her  up 
as  an  only  child.  As  it  turned  out,  Deb- 
bie continued  wearing  her  pretty  matern- 
ity clothes  for  so  long  after  Carrie's  birth, 
she  started  premature  rumors  that  she 
was  already  pregnant  again! 

Debbie  has  always  been  a  budget-wise 
bride.  Eddie,  not  too  long  out  of  bach- 
elorhood, is  still  inclined  to  spend  with  an 
open  hand.  But  Debbie  wisely  says  noth- 
ing as  Eddie  continues  to  bring  new  gifts 
home  for  their  first  baby.  Friends  and 
fans  have  presented  Carrie  with  every- 
thing from  a  real  diamond  ring  to  a  "mink 
toothbrush."  Eddie's  own  specialty  has 
proved  to  be  toys — including  a  stuffed 
elephant  so  big  it  wiU  be  years  before 
Carrie  can  cuddle  up  to  it. 

The  stream  of  gifts  will  eventually  taper 
off  to  a  more  sensible  trickle.  Eddie  and 
Debbie  are  fully  aware  that,  under  the 
circumstances,  their  baby  could  easily  be 
spoiled.  They  plan  to  watch  this  care- 
fully, to  bring  up  a  sweet,  sunny-natured 
little  girl.  But  loving  isn't  spoiling,  and 
Carrie  will  always  have  more  than  enough 
of  that  to  fill  her  heart.  Smiling  up  at 
them,  she  seems  to  know  this  now,  per- 
haps even  sensing  instinctively  that  her 
happy  security  is  all  part  of  the  great  love 
her  parents  shared  before  she  was  born. 

Someday,  she'll  know  the  story  of  Eddie 
Fisher's  and  Debbie  Reynolds'  romance,  as 
the  whole  world  shared  it.  Someday,  per- 
haps, when  she's  beginning  to  dream  of 
romance  for  herself,  in  the  misty  future. 
Already,  Carrie  has  a  date  for  some  'steen 
years  from  now.  The  day  before  she 
was  born,  Bemie  and  Margie  Rich  had 
their  own  first  child — a  boy.  Next  day, 
when  Carrie  herself  was  born,  she  re- 
ceived a  telegram  signed  by  the  very  new 
Michael  Lewis  Rich.  It  read:  "Please 
save  the  first  dance  for  me." 

But  Michael  will  just  have  to  take  his 
turn  with  all  the  others  who  loved  Carrie 
even  before  they  saw  her.  Right  now,  she 
belongs  to  Debbie  and  Eddie.  And  they 
belong  to  Carrie.  Together  they  are  a 
family.    And  that's  happiness  plus. 


GET  ON  A 


AND  WIN! 


How  would  you 
like  to  win  $100,- 
000— $64,000  or 
even  $5,000  on  one 
of  the  popular 
Quiz  programs. 
No  such  luck  you 
say.  But  don't  un- 
derestimate your 
chances  of  becom- 
ing a  contestant.  When  opportunity 
knocks  (and  the  important  thing  is 
that  you  can  help  opportiinity  to 
knock  if  you  know  how)  you  must  be 
ready. 

Millions  of  dollars  are  given  away 
on  Quiz  shows,  yet  nothing  has  been 
vin*itten  to  tell  you  how  to  become  a 
contestant.  Nothing  has  been  written 
to  give  you  tips  on  how  to  win.  But 
now,  in  his  brand  new  guide,  Joe 
Kane,    the    man 


who  writes  the 
questions  for 
Break  The  Bank, 
tells  you  exactly 
what  you  want  to 
know  about  Quiz 
shows. 

Here  is  your  op- 
portunity to  get 
expert  help  from 
the  foremost  au- 
thority on  Quiz 
programs!  Here  is 
your  chance  to  get 
behind-the-scenes 
and  see  exactly 
how  a  Quiz  Show 
works! 

Be  prepared  to 
win  as  much 
money  as  possi- 
ble. Read  chapter 
heading.s  listed 
here — and  bear  in 
mind     that    these 


PARTIAL  CONTENTS 

How  to  Obtain  Tick- 
ets •  The  Admission 

•  The  Best  Seats  • 
The  Warm-up  • 
Your  Appearance  • 
How  Contestants  are 
Selected  •  The  Pre- 
Show  Interview  • 
Why  Certain  Con- 
testants are  Select- 
ed •  City  vs.  Urban 
Contestants  •  How 
To  Fill  Out  the 
Questionnaire  •  The 
Write-In  Contestant 

•  The  Home  Con- 
testant •  The  Tele- 
phone Winner  •  Is 
Stage-fright  Serious 

•  Kind  of  Quiz 
Shows  •  Picking  the 
Category  •  WTiich 
Quiz  Show  is  Best  • 
Types   of   Questions 

•  How  Questions 
Are  Prepared  • 
Books  To  Study  • 
The  Come-Back 
Contestant  •  When 
To  Stop  •  Who  Sees 
the  Questions  •  The 
Income  Tax  •  The 
Emcee  •  How  Hon- 
est are  Quiz  Shows? 


are  only  a  part  of 

the  contents  of  this  helpful  guide. 
Whether  you  attend  Quiz  shows  or 
get  called  on  the  telephone — this 
booklet  is  packed  with  priceless  in- 
formation for  you.  Get  your  copy 
while  supply  lasts.  Only  50c  and  we 
pay  the  postage! 

MAIL  COUPON  TODAY! 


BARTHOLOMEW  HOUSE.  INC.,  Dept.  WG-457  ; 
I  205   E.   42   St..    New   York    17.    N.   Y. 

Send   me   postpaid   a   copy   of   HOW   TO  I 
'  wnsr    ON    QUIZ    shows.   I   enclose   50c. 


NAME 

Please  Print 

STREET 

CITY STATE. 


T 
V 
R 

81 


^V  _  m. 


Are 

Love 

and 

Romance 

passing  you  by? 

DON'T  RUIN  YOUR  CHANCES 

because  of  unsightly  teeth.  Give  your 
teeth  the  Hollywood  glamour  look  .  .  . 
with  lodent  No.  2.  Smoke  Smudge  and 
Surface  Stains  disappear  after  only 
a  few  brushings.  See  your  teeth  glow 
with  radiant  whiteness.  lodent  No.  2  is 
made  by  a  Dentist.  It  is  guaranteed 
to  be  safe  and  effective  by  Good 
Housekeeping.  Get  a  tube  today  .  .  . 
and  start  smiling  with  confidence. 

Remember  loo  ...  your 
dentist  knows  that  diet 
and  clean  teeth  are 
the  best  decay 
stoppers. 


SONGWRITERS 

PROTECT  YOUR  IDEAS!      HOLD  ALL  SONGS.  POEMS 

1 

• 

Write  for  safe. 

correct  procedurel 

SONG 
Dept.  T.V.  333  W.  56tl 

SERVICE 
St.,  New  York  19,  N. 

Y. 

Makes 

Pavements 

Feel 

Like  Cushions ! 


^      DrScholl's 
Wi  BALL-0-FOOT 
Cushion 


T 
V 
R 

82 


You  Actually  Walk  On  Air! 

This  modern   miracle  of 
wall^ing  ease— Dr.  Scholl's 
Ball-0-Foot  Cushion  for 
men  and  women— relieves 
pain,  callouses,  burning, ten- 
derness at  bail  of  foot.  The  cushion,  not  you, 
absorbs  shocl<  of  each  step.  Loops  over  toe 
—no  adhesive.  Flesh  color.  Washable.  Only 
$1  pair.  At  Drug,  Shoe,  Dept.,  5-10^  Stores 
and  Dr.  SchoH's  Foot  Comfort®  Shops.  If 
not  obtainable  locally,  send  $1.00  direct  to 
DR.  SCHOLL'S,  Dept.  77B,  Chicago  10,  III. 


Twelve  Answers  For  Teens 


{Continued  from  page  21) 
I  thought  of  what  I  was  doing  to  myself. 
I  threw  away  my  fiats  and  began  to  wear 
heels  and  walk  straight." 

Today,  Eloise  has  every  opportunity  to 
help  others  to  good  posture  and  grooming, 
for  she  has  had  a  chance  to  know  inti- 
mately the  problems  of  women  all  over  the 
world,  through  her  work  with  Slenderella. 
Obviously,  she  is  well-equipped  to  discuss 
teen-age  problems  of  personality  and  ap- 
pearance, since  during  the  war  she  held  an 
important  job  as  personnel  officer  with  the 
Waves,  handling  the  problems  of  many 
young  women. 

In  answer  to  a  series  of  questions,  Eloise 
English  sumarizes  below  some  of  the 
teens'  biggest  problems. 

Question:  Eloise,  will  you  analyze  the 
figure  faults  of  the  average  teen-age  girl? 

Answer:  The  worst  fault  is  bad  posture. 
There  is  the  F-shaped  girl  and  the  L- 
shaped  girl — the  L  in  reverse.  There  is  the 
girl  who  leans  herself  out  of  shape  carry- 
ing books  on  her  hips.  The  most  frequent 
weight  problem  seems  to  run  to  thick  hips 
and  thighs.  Of  course,  when  girls  are 
excessively  overweight,  the  fat  may  bunch 
on  waist,  bust  and  arms,  as  well  as  hips. 
But  teenagers  should  be  happy  to  know 
that,  when  they  do  slenderize,  they  lose 
inches  much  faster  than  weight.  And  they 
lose  inches  and  weight  much  faster  than 
adults. 

Question:  Are  there  food  problems  pe- 
culiar  to   teenagers? 

Answer:  Definitely  yes.  Snacking  is  one 
bad  habit.  I  mean  nibbling  while  studying 
or  watching  TV.  Rimning  to  the  icebox 
for  a  quick  sandwich.  To  fight  the  nibbling 
habit,  I  recommend  self-control.  And,  if 
you  must  nibble,  try  low-calorie  snacks — 
celery,  carrots,  radishes,  watercress.  They 
fill  the  stomach  without  adding  much  to 
calorie  intake. 

Another  problem  for  the  teen  is  the  fact 
that  most  school  lunchrooms  tend  to  serve 
foods  which  are  fattening.  The  poor  dieter 
is  confronted  by  sandwiches  with  fillings, 
meat  loaf  with  rich  gravy  and  potatoes, 
creamed  chipped  beef,  chicken  a  la  king. 
For  the  dieter,  it  may  be  wiser  to  settle 
for  a  sandwich  with  lean  meat  and  lettuce 
and  mustard,  or  hardboiled  eggs  and  let- 
tuce. She  may  even  have  to  bring  her 
own  lunch  from  home.  But  the  trouble  is 
well  repaid  by  lost  poundage. 

Probably  the  worst  teen-age  eating  habit 
IS  gang-eating.  When  you're  out  with  the 
crowd  and  everyone  else  orders  malteds 
and  hamburgers,  it's  hard  to  stick  with  a 
diet.  But  try  to  limit  yourself  to  the  low- 
calorie  type  of  plain  soda  or  black  coffee. 
You'll  still  be  with  the  gang,  and  they'll 
understand  your  wish  to  reduce. 

Question:  What  can  a  mother  do  to  help 
her  daughter  achieve  a  slim  figure? 

Answer:  It's  best  when  mother  and 
daughter  work  as  a  team.  And,  when 
mother  takes  care  of  her  figure,  daughter 
usually  follows  suit.  In  the  same  way,  if 
the  mother  is  intelligent  about  foods  served 
at  home,  she  can  encourage  good  eating 
habits  in  her  daughter.  But  there  are  ex- 
ceptions. Some  mothers  still  contend  that 
teen-age  girls  actually  need  excess  weight 
tor  energy.  This  is  scientifically  untrue. 
Other  mothers  reflect  a  naive  view,  when 
they  say,  "My  daughter  has  'baby  fat.'  It 
will  go  away  in  a  few  years."  Unfortu- 
nately, teen-age  fat  can  become  adult  fat 
The  adolescent  weight  cannot  be  counted 
on  to  disappear  magically  at  twenty. 

Teen-age  overeating  may  also  be  com- 
pulsive—an  unconscious  rebellion  against 
teelmgs  of  insufficiency,  or  against  a  fam- 
ily conflict.  For  example,  perhaps,  a  teen- 
ager has  a  nagging  mother.  In  resentment 
ot  what  she  feels  is  unfair  treatment,  the 


girl  may  turn  to  the  pleasure  of  eating. 
Thus  she  compensates  for  the  disagreeable 
feelings,  given  her  by  her  mother,  that  she 
is  always  wrong  in  the  things  she  does. 
This  attitude  is  typified  by  the  remark  one 
teenager  made  to  me:  "My  mother  thinks 
I'm  eating  all  the  time,  so  I  might  as  well." 

I  have  found  that  teenagers,  like  adults, 
respond  to  positive  treatment.  An  ounce 
of  flattery  is  worth  a  pound  of  nagging. 
And  mothers  can  help  their  teen-age 
daughters  immeasurably  by  the  simple 
remark,  "You  look  lovely  today,  dear. 
That  dress  is  so  becoming." 

Of  course,  when  only  the  teenager  in  the 
family  is  dieting,  she  must  develop 
strength  of  mind  about  maintaining  her 
diet.  Few  families  are  in  position  to  pre- 
pare two  completely  separate  menus.  I 
know  one  girl,  struggling  with  a  diet,  who 
struggled  mightily  whenever  her  mother 
baked  pumpkin  pie — and  lost.  She  ended 
up  eating  two  large  pieces.  But  should  her 
mother  have  stopped  baking  for  the  family 
because  her  daughter  had  no  will  power? 
I  don't  think  so. 

Question:  If  a  teenager  doesn't  get  help 
from  her  mother  about  dieting  and  other 
problems,  what  should  she  do? 

Answer:  Being  a  teenager  is  difficult. 
They  are  simply  nice  people  in  the  difficult 
spot  of  being  neither  children  nor  adults. 
A  teenager  seldom  knows  when  she  will 
be    applauded   for   making    her    own    de- 


They're  the  fops — the  winners  of 

TV  RADIO  MIRROR  AWARDS 

Read  about  them  in  the  May  issue 
At  your  newsstand  April  4 


cisions  and  when  she  will  be  chastized  for 
doing  so.  Her  father  and  mother  may  not 
even  agree  between  themselves  about  just 
how  "grown  up"  their  daughter  is.  There 
is  also  more  tension  during  teen  years  be- 
tween mother  and  daughter  than  at  any 
other  time.  Many  girls,  when  they  want 
help  or  an  answer  to  an  intimate  problem, 
are  inclined  to  call  on  an  older  sister  or 
an  aunt.  And,  when  a  complete  outsider 
is  the  adviser,  it  often  means  one  less 
point  of  tension  in  the  home. 

Question:  Exactly  what  is  "compulsive" 
eating? 

Answer:  Emotional  or  "compulsive"  eat- 
ing is  like  a  disease.  It  is,  in  a  way, 
similar  to  alcoholism.  People  get  comfort 
from  food,  just  as  they  do  from  alcohol. 
Obviously,  if  overeating  stems  from  an 
emotional  problem,  the  problem  must  be 
solved  before  the  overeating  can  be 
stopped.  That  means  starting  off  with  a 
trip  to  the  family  doctor.  Some  teen- 
agers, or  adults,  may  excuse  compulsive 
eating  habits  by  ^  telling  themselves  that 
heavy  eating  runs  in  the  family.  This  is 
not  so.  It  is  a  serious  personal  problem  and 
needs  to  be  dealt  with  medically. 

Question:  Which  is  more  important — 
proper  exercise  or  proper  eating? 

Answer:  Obviously,  both  are  equally 
important,  particularly  for  teenagers.  The 
teens  are  supposed  to  be  very  active.  Many 
people  assume  that  they  get  plenty  of 
exercise.  On  the  contrary,  most  teens  live 
a  rather  sedentary  life  and  they  need 
exercise  for  health,  posture,  figure.  Posture 


can  be  improved  by  standing  erect  against 
a  wall  or  by  walking  fifteen  or  twenty 
minutes  a  day  with  a  book  balanced  on 
the  head.  There  are  good  leg  exercises  to 
slim  down  hips  and  thighs  as  well  as  the 
waist.  An  exercise  program  plus  diet 
requires  discipline,  but  will  result  in  a 
good  figvu-e  and  good  posture. 

Question:  This  has  been  called  the  age 
of  the  "sweater  girl."  Anyway,  a  lot  of 
girls  worry  about  the  size  of  their  bust- 
line — is  there  any  way  to  bring  it  up  to 
normal  or  down  to  normal? 

Answer:  No  one  can  say  a  34-inch  bust, 
for  example,  is  normal  or  subnormal  or 
abnormal.  The  size  of  the  bosom  depends 
on  a  girl's  build,  her  height  and  bone 
structure.  The  bust  should,  ideally,  be  in 
proportion  with  waist  and  hips.  The  cur- 
rent accent  on  big  bosoms  has  become 
a  fetish. 

The  teen-aged  girl  who  is  hippy,  thick- 
waisted  and  too  busty  can  do  something 
about  it  with  diet  and  exercise.  As  she 
slenderizes,  her  bust  should  resolve  into 
more  natural  lines.  Posture  has  a  lot  to  do 
with  the  bust-line.  If  a  girl  stands  round- 
shouldered,  the  supporting  tissue  and 
muscle  break  down,  with  the  resultant 
effect  of  a  pendulous,  sagging  bosom.  The 
answer  here  is  obviously  exercise  and 
good  posture.  For  the  gal  with  the  under- 
sized bust,  exercise  can  add  inches  to  the 
■  chest,  but  will  not  develop  the  size  of  the 
bust.  Some  girls  try  swimming  for  this 
purpose,  but  at  the  risk  of  making  their 
arms  muscular.  Posture,  of  course,  is  just 
as  important  for  the  smaU-bosomed  wom- 
an, as  for  the  large-bosomed.  In  any  case, 
a  girl  should  strive  for  the  slender,  pro- 
portioned figure.  To  get  into  a  sheath 
dress,  you  must  have  the  figure  for  it. 

Question:  As  a  fashion  authority,  have 
you  any  advice  for  the  teenager  on  clothes? 

Answer:  The  teenager  is  inclined  to 
think  that,  the  more  expensive  clothes  are, 
the  more  elaborate  they  have  to  be.  Actu- 
ally, the  reverse  is  true — for  good,  tailored, 
simple  clothes  can  also  be  expensive.  But, 
regardless  of  price,  the  important  thing  is 
to  wear  what  is  right  for  the  individual, 
regardless  of  fashion  and  fad.  General 
rules  exist  for  those  of  us  who  are  too  tall 
or  too  short.  We  can't  wear  bows  and 
bangles.  We  must  wear  simple,  tailored 
clothes.  Of  course,  I  am  too  tall  to  wear 
vertical  stripes.  They  only  accentuate  my 
height.  But  I  can  wear  big  hunks  of 
jewelry  and  wide- brimmed  hats,  while  a 
short  woman  can  wear  neither.  Her 
jewelry  should  be  delicate  and  a  hat  should 
never  cover  her  face,  or  she'll  look  like  a 
mushroom. 

A  small  girl  shotild  dress  in  one  color, 
rather  than  in  a  contrasting  skirt  and 
jacket.  The  two  masses  of  color  give  the 
effect  of  cutting  her  height — which  she 
can't  afford.  A  tall  girl  may  mix  colors, 
but,  if  her  blouse  is  lighter  than  the  skirt, 
she  looks  as  if  she's  in  flight.  The  girl  in 
between,  neither  too  tall  nor  too  short, 
can  wear  more  types  of  clothes. 

Colors  are  important,  too.  Olive-skinned 
girls,  for  example,  should  never  wear 
black  or  brown.  It  makes  the  skin  look 
sallow.  They  should  favor  pastels  and 
high  colors.  A  fair-skinned  girl  can,  how- 
ever, wear  almost  any  color. 

Of  course,  grooming  makes  or  mars  the 
entire  picture.  There  is  no  substitute  for 
neatness.  Clothes  should  be  brushed  and 
hung  up  after  each  wearing.  If  a  hem 
droops,  odds  are  that  the  dress  wasn't 
hung  away  properly. 

Question:  Are  there  any  tricks  for  com- 
plexion? 

Answer:  For  a  teenager,  cleanliness  is  the 
important  thing.  Face  should  be  cleansed 
thoroughly  at  least  twice  a  day — three 
times,  if  possible.  The  right  food  and  lots 
of  drinking  water,  along  with  exercise,  are 
helpful  for  a  good  complexion.   And  keep 


your  hair  shining  and  clean.  Straight  hair 
can  be  just  as  attractive  as  curled,  if  it 
has  enough  body.  I  see  many  girls  wearing 
hair  attractively  straight  or  turned  under. 
If  your  hair  is  thick,  then  it  must  be 
thinned  out  regularly  so  that  your  head 
doesn't  look  untidy.  And  youi  hair-do 
should  be  chosen  for  what  it  does  for  you, 
not  because  it  is  fashionable.  Incidentally, 
one  glaring  fault  of  teenagers  is  their  choice 
of  nail  polish.  Too  often  they  choose 
garish  colors  rather  than  subdued  pale 
tones. 

Question:  You  have  proposed  universal 
military  training  for  girls.    Why? 

Answer:  I  began  thinking  along  this 
line  during  my  service  in  the  Navy.  It 
occiu-red  to  me  that  military  training 
would  be  just  as  helpful  for  girls  as  for 
boys.  Such  training  develops  self-respect, 
self -discipline  and  self-reliance.  It  teaches 
good  grooming  and  good  posture.  Military 
service  would  get  girls  in  shape  mentally 
and  physically,  plus  giving  them  a  chance 
to  think  about  their  careers.  Often,  girls 
go  off  to  college  with  no  idea  of  what  they 
want  to  do  in  life.  Incidentally,  in  line 
with  my  thinking,  one  college  has  insti- 
tuted R.O.T.C.  for  women. 

Question:  Isn't  UMT  for  women  an  un- 
usual approach? 

Answer:  Perhaps — ^but  I  have  very 
strong  opinions  about  education  for  wom- 
en. For  one  thing,  I  don't  believe  in  a 
straight  business  course  for  a  girl.  If  she 
plans  to  start  a  career  in  secretarial  work, 
then  she  should  take  typing  and  short- 
hand in  addition  to  an  academic  course. 
Women,  and  teenagers  in  particular,  should 
stop  thinking  of  themselves  as  the  serving 
class  in  business.  The  typewriter  and  filing 
cabinet  shouldn't  be  the  limit  of  a  girl's 
ambition.  She  can  and  should  strive 
toward  the  same  executive  jobs  as  men. 
For  these  jobs,  she  needs  a  larger  horizon, 
the  kind  of  attitude  she  will  get  in  an 
academic  course.  Languages,  literature  and 
science  open  the  mind  to  the  world.  They 
contribute  to  personality  in  a  lasting  sense. 
It's  not  enough  to  be  pretty  and  efficient. 
But  a  teenager  may  ask,  "Who  needs 
French  and  science  to  have  babies?"  Well, 
the  modem  housewife  doesn't  stay  at 
home.  She  is  active  in  the  community — in 
drives  for  charity,  in  PTA  meetings,  ama- 
teur dramatics,  chtirch  groups — where  she 
is  expected  to  show  signs  of  learning.  And 
a  teenager  is  not  too  yoimg  to  prepare  for 
the  mature  world.  One  way  to  do  this  is 
to  develop  a  curious  mind.  The  knack  of 
thinking  outside  one's  self  is  in  itself  self- 
educating  and  absolutely  painless. 

Question:  Then  what  you  are  saying  is 
that  an  attractive  woman  must  be  mentally 
as  well  as  physically   attractive? 

Answer:  Yes,  and  sometimes  they  are 
one  and  the  same.  For  example,  I  don't 
approve  of  teenagers  living  in  jeans.  I 
think  jeans  lead  into  bad  habits — of  slop- 
piness  and  laziness.  Good  grooming 
sparks  a  mental  attitude  important  to 
women,  and  habits  of  good  grooming 
shouldn't  start  any  later  than  the  teen 
years.  These  years  set  the  pattern  of  a 
woman's  life,  establish  the  foundation  for 
good  health,  good  looks  and  a  healthy  out- 
look. Remember,  there  were  two  Cin- 
derellas — the  daytime  drudge  and  the 
dazzling  girl  at  lJie  prince's  ball.  Put  the 
drudge  behind  you  right  now. 


ANY  QUESTIONS? 

If  you  have  a  figure  or  diet  problem 
on  which  you'd  like  to  consult  Eloise 
English,  write  to  her  c/o  TV  RADIO 
MIRROR,  205  East  42nd  Street,  New 
York,  N.  Y. 


WOMEN 

GO  PLACES 

WITH 

Good 
Manners 


Are  you  shy  .  .  .  timid  .  .  .  afraid  to  meet 
and  talk  with  people?  If  so,  here's  good 
news  for  you!  For  Elsa  Maxwell,  the  fa- 
mous hostess  to  world  celebrities,  has 
written  a  book  packed  solid  with  ways  to 
develop  poise  and  self-confidence. 

This  wonderful  book  entitled,  Elsa  Max- 
well's Etiquette  Book  contains  the  an- 
swers to  all  your  everyday  social 
problems.  By  following  the  suggestions 
given  in  this  book  you  know  exactly  how 
to  conduct  yourself  on  every  occasion. 
Once  you  are  completely  familiar  with 
the  rules  of  good  manners  you  immedi- 
ately lose  your  shyness — and  you  be- 
come your  true,  radiant  self. 

Win  New  Respect 

Win  new  esteem  and  respect  from  your 
friends — men  and  women  alike.  Read 
one  chapter  in  this  helpful  book  in  your 
spare  time,  and  in  a  very  short  period 
you  will  find  yourself  with  more  self- 
confidence  than  you  ever  dreamed  you 
would  have.  You  will  experience  the 
wonderful  feeling  of  being  looked  up  to 
and  admired. 

Good  manners  are  one  of  the  greatest  per- 
sonal assets  you  can  possess.  Good  jobs, 
new  friends,  romance,  and  the  chance  to 
influence  people  can  be  won  with  good 
manners.  Ladies  and  gentlemen  are  al- 
ways welcome  .  .  anywhere.  And  the 
most  encouraging  thing  about  good  man- 
ners is  that  anyone  can  possess  them. 

Only  $1.00 

The  price  of  this 
book  that  puts  you 
at  ease  no  matter 
where  you  are — 
and  opens  the  door 
to  achievement 
and  success — costs 
only  $1.00.  And  we 
pay  the  postage! 
Take  advantage  of 
this  truly  remark- 
able bargain.  Mail 
coupon  below  for 
your  book  —  TO- 
DAY! 


!  BARTHOLOMEW  HOUSE.  INC.,  Dept.  WG-457 
>205  E.  42nd  St.,  New  York  17,   N.  Y. 

» Send  me  postpaid  a  copy  of  ELSA  MAX- 
I  WELL'S  ETIQUETTE  BOOK.  I  enclose 
•  $1.00. 


;  NAME : 

,  Please    Print  • 

:    T 

;  STREET •        V 

• 

;CITY STATE • 

*"" ......•.•••      gg 


drav^  me! 


TRY  FOR  A  $37500  ART  COURSE 

PRIZE:  A  complete  art  course  —  free  train- 
ing for  a  career  in  commercial  art — plus  a 
drawing  outfit  and  art  textbooks.  You're 
trained  by  professional  artists  on  staff  of 
world's  largest  home  study  art  school- 
Enter  contest! 

Draw  girl's  head  5  inches  higli.  Use  pencil.  Drawings  for 
April  1 957  contest  most  be  received  by  April  30.  None 
returned.  Winner  notified.  Amateurs  only.  Our  students  not 
eligible.  Moil  with  name,  oge,  oddress,  to: 

ART    INSTRUCTION,   INC.,  STUDIO  3397 

500   South  4th  Street,  Minneapolis  15,  Minnesota 


t  No  classes  to  attend.  Easy  spare-time  train- 
ling  covers  big  choice  of  subjects.  Friendly  \ 
\  instructors ;  standard  texts.  Full  credit  £or\ 

previous  schooling.     Diploma  awarded. 

Write  now  for  FREE  catalog! 

WAYNE    SCHOOL    Catplog  HH-45  , 
[2527  Sheffield  Ave.,  Chicago  1 4,  Illinois  . 


T 
V 
R 

PA 


X  Hair 

'At  OFFFace 

^^r       Lips...Arins...Legs 

Now  Happy!  After  trying  many  things,  I  de- 
veloped a  simple,  inexpensive  method  to  remove 
unsightly  hair.  Its  regular  use  helps  thousands 
retain  admiration,  love,  happiness.  My  FREE  book  ex- 
plains method,  proves  success.  Mailed  in  plain  enve- 
lope. Also  TRIAL  OFFER.  Write  Annette  Lanzette, 
P.O.  Box 4040.  Mdse.  Mart,  Dept.256  Chicago 54,  111. 
Celebrating   35  Years  in   Business 


WERE  YOU  A 

BLONDE 
BABY- 

What  Happened? 


Were  you  once  a  gorgeous 
blonde?  Did  you  neglect  your 
hair— letting  it  slip,  shode-by- 
shade,  into  a  dull,  dark  color? 
Now,  of  last,  you  can  bring 
bock  the  sparkling  beauty  of 
blonde  hair  with  BLONDEX, 
the  new  11 -minute  home  lotion  shampoo.  Made  fresh,  as 
you  need  it,  BLONDEX  whips  into  a  rich,  billowy  lather... 
rinses  away  the  dingy  film  that  mokes  blonde  hair  dark  and 
old-looking... reveals  the  lustrous  highlights  that  men  love! 
Contains  ANDIUM  to  lighten  and  shine  as  it  shampoos.  Abso- 
lutely safe  —  use  if  for  children's  delicate  hair.  Get  BLONDEX 
today  ot  104,  drug  or  department  stores. 


As  The  World  Turns 


(Continued  from  page  4:4c) 
while  he  acted  as  he  did.  No.  Not  even 
when  she  found  that,  alone  in  her  room, 
Ellen  talked  to  the  picture  as  though  her 
father  were  there  with  her.  Claire  had 
heard  her  saying  softly  to  the  picture  that 
she  missed  him — her  father — and  wished 
he  would  come  home.  And  Claire  heard 
her  confide  things  to  the  picture  that  she 
would  never  have  told  her  mother. 

That  was  anguish.  Such  emotional  tur- 
moil had  brought  Claire  to  sheer  despair. 
But  it  wasn't  like  that  now!  Blessedly  and 
wonderfully,  it  wasn't  like  that  now! 

She  found  herself  trembling  a  little.  Not 
the  nervous  shivering  she'd  known  before. 
There  was  no  dreary,  hopeless  sense  of 
utter  frustration  behind  the  way  she  felt 
now!  This  was  a  new  kind  of  feeling.  It 
was  a  confident,  a  sure,  a  clear-eyed 
view  of  reality.  She  knew  she  could  tell 
Dr.  Snyder.  But  if  she  did — 

He  spoke  without  turning.  "You  under- 
stand, I  do  not  suggest  that  you  talk  about 
it  if  you  do  not  choose.  Upsetting  things 
should  be  faced.  But,  for  the  facing  to  be 
useful,  it  must  be  done  by  your  choice,  not 
my  direction." 

"Y-yes,"  said  Claire.  "There  is  some- 
thing I  do  want  to  talk  about.  Jim  and — " 
she  stopped  and  then  said  resolutely,  "I 
can  do  it,  but — " 

Doctor  Snyder  sat  silently  looking  out 
of  the  window.  His  air  was  that  of  medita- 
tive attention.  Claire's  thoughts  raced 
back  through  time. 

She  and  Jim  had  grown  up  together.  In 
high  school,  it  was  so  natural  as  to  seem 
inevitable  that  Jim  would  take  her  to  the 
school  dances  and  the  parties.  If  a  day 
passed  when  they  were  not  together,  some- 
one asked  solicitously  if  there  was  any- 
thing wrong.  Her  parents  beamed  senti- 
mentally upon  them.  Jim's  father  was  a 
tyrant,  but  he  did  not  object  to  Claire,  and 
Jim's  mother  really  seemed  to  love  her.  So 
that  going  with  Claire  was  one  matter  in 
which  Jim  could  at  once  please  the  mother 
he  adored  and  the  father  he  dreaded. 

It  was  natural,  then,  that  a  day  came 
when  Claire  found  herself  in  a  bridal  veil, 
being  married  to  Jim.  And  they'd  believed 
honestly  that  they  loved  each  other,  but 
they  really  married  because  they'd  al- 
ways known  each  other  and  because  their 
parents  expected  them  to.  It  was  a  long 
time  before  Jim  realized  the  truth.  Claire'd 
hoped  he  never  would.  But  he  did.  .  .  . 
And  she  didn't  want  Ellen  to  have  a  mar- 


riage like  that!   That  would  be  disastrous. 

She  said  abruptly,  "I've  told  Ellen  that 
I'd  rather  not  have  her  such  close  friends 
with  Donald's  sister  Penny.  I — would  like 
to  have  her  break  off  their  companionship. 
I  had  a  long  talk  with  her  about  it." 

Doctor  Snyder  seemed  not  to  notice  that 
she  spoke  about  Ellen  when  she'd  said  she 
wanted  to  talk  about  Jim.  He  waited. 

"She's  going  away  to  college  soon,"  said 
Claire.  "She'll  need  to  make  new  friends 
there.  Penny  will  go  to  the  university  here 
in  town.  It's  better  for  Ellen  to  be  ready 
to  make  new  friends,  and  not  miss  old 
ones." 

Doctor  Snyder  still  waited.  He  began  to 
look  faintly  quizzical. 

"She  hasn't  a  brother,"  added  Claire, 
"and  Penny  has.  I  wish  Ellen  did  have  a 
brother.  My  brother  was  a  wonderful  help 
to  me  when  I  was  Ellen's  age!  But— a 
brother  has  to  be  a  real  brother.  When  I 
girls  are  as  close  as  Ellen  and  Penny — 
there's  a  chance  that  Donald  could  become 
involved.  .  .  ." 

Doctor  Snyder  had  a  distinctly  quizzical 
air,  now.  It  was  as  if  he  waited  for  Claire 
to  be  amused  at  her  own  dodging  around  2 
something  she  was  reluctant  to  say.  She  J 
fidgeted.  Then  she  said  defiantly,  "I  think 
it  dangerous  for  Ellen  to  be  too  close  a 
friend  to  Donald  Hughes'  sister!" 

Doctor  Snyder  seemed  to  think  over 
what  she'd  said.  "You've  worried  that 
they'd  think  they  were  in  love  because 
they  know  each  other  so  well,"  he  ob- 
served. "You  and  Jim  were  childhood 
sweethearts."  Then  he  said,  in  a  different, 
meditative  tone,  "Have  you  noticed  that, 
when  you  speak  of  Donald  ordinarily,  you 
use  his  first  name  alone?  But,  when  you 
disapprove,  you  call  him  Donaid  Hughes? 
You  still  have  a  strong  emotional  reaction 
to  the  name  Hughes." 

Claire  flushed. 

Pictures,  images,  memories  flooded  her 
mind.  They  brought  surging  emotion  with 
them.  The  emotion  came,  of  course,  from 
the  tragic  time  when,  because  his  own 
marriage  was  a  pattern  of  mutual  frustra- 
tions, Jim  considered  that  he  was  in  love 
with  Edith  Hughes.  Which  was  monstrous 
in  every  possible  way!  Edith's  own  brother 
Chris  was  Jim's  best  friend,  and  Chris's 
wife  Nancy  was  close  to  Claire,  and  Edith's 
niece  Penny  was  Ellen's  inseparable  com- 
panion, and  of  course  there  was  Donald. 
.  .  .  Of  all  people,  Edith  Hughes  should 
have    left    Jim    alone!    Not    that    he    was 


Drifting  Apart . . . 

Another  marriage  might  have  been  wrecked  if 
it  hadn't  been  for  radio's  "My  True  Story."  For  this 
is  the  program  that  shows  you  how  real-life  people 
have  averted  tragedy  in  their  own  lives.  When  you 
tune  in  to  these  stories — which  are  right  from  the 
files  of  "True  Story  Magazine" — ^you  may  easily 
recognize  your  friends  .  .  .  your  neighbors  .  .  .  even 
your  own  loved  ones.    So  be  sure  to  listen. 

TUNE  IN 

"MY  TRUE  STORY" 

American  Broadcasting  Stations 

"Your  mother's  leaving,"  he  said.  "You've  got  to  choose  between  us."  Read  "You 
Can't  Have  Us  Both"  in  April  TRUE  STORY  magazine,  now  at  all  newsstands. 


guiltless!    For  he  was  partly  responsible. 

Surely  it  was  natural  for  Claire  to  have 
a  strong  emotional  reaction  to  the  name 
Hughes! 

When  she  remained  silent,  Doctor  Snyder 
stirred  in  his  chair.  "Would  you  want  to 
talk  about  Ellen's  reaction  when  you 
asked  her  to  give  up  Penny's  friendship?" 
he  asked. 

"No-o-o."  said  Claire.  "She  was  not 
happy.  But  I  said,  when  I  came  in,  that 
there  wasn't  anything  I  felt  I  ought  to  dis- 
cuss, Doctor.  I  really  do  feel  tremendously 
better!" 

"You  should  not  try  to  consult  with 
me  when  you  feel  that  it  can  do  no  good," 
said  Doctor  Snyder  mildly.  "It  would  not 
be  useful.  I  take  it  you  woiild  rather  not 
try?  Not  today?" 

Claire  shrugged.  But  she  picked  up  her 
purse. 

She  did  feel  more  composed,  more 
poised,  more  confident  of  herself  and  of 
the  future  than  she'd  felt  for  longer  than 
she  liked  to  recognize.  Basically,  she  knew, 
the  improvement  had  come  about  because, 
at  the  beginning,  she'd  been  so  harried 
and  upset  that  she'd  been  a  dutifully  sub- 
missive patient,  frightenedly  discussing 
anything  Doctor  Snyder  thought  it  wise 
for  her  to  talk  about,  bringing  out  facts 
she'd  tried  to  hide  from  herself,  unravel- 
ing a  tangled  web  of  fears  and  frustrations 
and  unhappiness.  But  that  was  over,  now. 
Blessedly  and  wonderfully  ended! 

"Claire,"  said  Doctor  Snyder  mildly,  as 
she  stood  up,  "do  you  think  this  has  been 
a  successful— ah — part  of  a  session?" 

She  smiled  uncertainly,  without  answer- 
ing. 

"You  came  in,"  he  observed  judicially, 
"saying  that  you  had  nothing  in  your  mind 
worth  discussing.  Then  I  made  a  comment 
in  which  you  suspected  a  hidden  meaning, 
and  you  picked  at  it  until  I  guessed  that 
there  was  something  you  were  afraid  I 
might  guess." 

Claire  tensed  a  little.  "Well?" 

"So  you  said  you  wanted  to  talk  about 
your  husband.  But  do  you  realize  that  you 
actually  talked  about  nearly  everything 
else — when  you  would  talk?  And  do  you 
realize  that  it  has  been  you  who  guided 
the  conversation  throughout,  not  I?  That 
you  carefully  kept  it  from  something  you 
did  not  want  to  talk  about?" 

Claire  tensed  a  little  more.  It  was  true, 
of  course.  But  she  was  not  distressed  and 


upset  at  the  discovery,  as  she  would  have 
been  only  a  little  while  before.  Now  she 
nodded,  watching  his  face. 

"As  an  individual  session,"  said  Doctor 
Snyder  drily,  "this  has  been  very  poor  in 
results.  But,  as  the  result  of  other  sessions, 
it  is  not  at  all  bad!  A  parent  wants  his 
children  to  reach  the  point  where  they  do 
not  need  him.  As  a  psychiatrist,  I  succeed 
only  when  my  patients — " 

Claire  smiled.  "Don't  need  you?  But  I 
do.  Doctor!  I  wasn't  very  cooperative  to- 
day. I  realize  it.  But  it  isn't  that  I  think  I 
have  no  more  need  of  you!  You've  done  so 
much  for  me!" 

He  nodded.  "Yes.  You  will  need  me  for 
a  while,  still.  But  I  am  encouraged.  It  is 
natural  and  promising  for  you  to  want  to 
think  for  yourself  instead  of  only  feeling. 
It  is  even  natural  to  want  to  make  de- 
cisions without  asking  advice." 

She  was  startled — almost  to  the  point  of 
blurting  out  an  appalled  question  of  how 
much  or  what  he'd  guessed.  But  he  rose 
and  held  out  his  hand.  She  got  out  of  the 
office  without  any  reference  to  the  con- 
clusion she'd  decided  must  be  solely  her 
own.  On  the  way  down  to  the  street  she 
realized  that  he  must  have  come  to  the 
same  conclusion  a  long  while  before,  and 
that  he'd  been  working  gently  and  pa- 
tiently with  her  until  she  could  arrive  at  it 
for  herself. 

She  lifted  her  head  higher  as  she  went 
out  into  the  street.  Now  she  knew  she 
could  take  her  own  life  into  her  own  hands 
again.  She  became  suddenly,  warmly 
aware  that  the  sunshine  was  bright  and 
the  skies  blue.  She  felt  more  alive  than 
she  could  remember.  It  wasn't  that  she 
looked  for  happiness  for  herself.  Not  at 
once,  certainly.  What  she  must  do  would  be 
difficult.  She  would  even  be  unhappy, 
often.  But  she  could  do  what  she  now  saw 
must  be  done.  She  had  her  own  life  in  her 
own  hsinds  again,  and  she  could  use  it  for 
the  purposes  for  which  life  is  given. 

She  walked  with  her  head  held  high,  re- 
joicing in  the  inner  strength  she'd  fought 
back  to,  ready  to  face  and  conquer  the 
problems  and  the  griefs  that  had  defeated 
her  before. 

She  thought  tenderly  of  Ellen.  With  her 
new  wisdom,  she  could  make  sure  that  her 
daughter's  life  would  be  happier  than  hers 
had  been. 

That,  far  and  far  ahead,  would  be  her 
own  happiness. 


Call  It  Luck 


(Continued  from,  page  32) 
theless,   it  made   life   pretty   rough   for   a 
fifteen-year-old. 

"Needless  to  say,  I  didn't  take  Broad- 
way by  storm.  I  slowly  worked  up  from 
an  understudy  part  to  walk-ons  and  minor 
roles.  Finally  in  1938  a  good  part  came 
my  way — but  I  was  fired  after  seven  days 
of  rehearsal.  Right  then  and  there,  I  de- 
cided to  go  abroad  to  study  drama  serious- 
ly in  European  dramatic  schools.  The 
experience  of  being  fired  had  proved  to 
me  that  I  needed  to  be  taught.  I  stayed 
in  Europe  for  a  year — ^working,  studying, 
and  having  a  wonderful  time." 

Even  though  her  dramatic  schooling 
lasted  just  one  year,  Joan's  conscientious- 
ness brought  its  rewards.  Upon  her  return 
to  the  States,  she  picked  up  a  number  of 
good  parts  on  Broadway.  Then  Holly- 
wood beckoned.  A  major  studio  called  her 
for  a  screen  test.  It  seemed  as  though  Lady 
Luck  really  had  her  by  the  hand  now  .  .  . 
she  couldn't  lose.  But  lose  she  did.  Al- 
most the  first  thing  that  happened  to  her 
in  Hollywood  was  an  automobile  accident 
which  resulted  in  a  shattered  face,  the  loss 
of   the   screen   test — and    an    almost   sub- 


zero    morale.      Everything     seemed     lost. 

"Of  course,"  Joan  explains,  "I  recovered 
from  both  .  .  .  the  doctor  took  care  of  the 
physical  injury,  while  my  good  friend 
Madeleine  Carroll  took  care  of  the  psy- 
chological set-back.  By  the  time  I  re- 
turned to  the  East  Coast,  I  was  in  suffi- 
ciently  good   condition   to   start  again. 

"Then,  in  1941,  I  heard  of  an  audition 
which  was  being  held  for  a  leading  role  in 
a  CBS  daytime  drama  called  Bright  Hori- 
zons. I  had  never  tried  radio,  but  the 
steadiness  of  it  appealed  to  me  .  .  .  even 
though  I  had  done  fairly  well  on  Broad- 
way, I  was  still  pretty  far  from  making  a 
steady  living  out  of  it.  So,  along  with  a  lot 
of  other  hopefuls,  I  took  the  audition — and, 
much  to  my  surprise,  I  won.  It  wasn't 
long  before  I  realized  that  this  end  of  the 
theatrical  business  was  more  exciting  than 
I  had  ever  dreamed.  In  radio,  I  could 
play  such  a  wide  variety  of  roles  ...  so, 
whereas  I  never  really  left  Broadway,  I 
did  take  a  long  hiatus  from  it  in  favor  of 
radio.  Meanwhile,  I  never  stopped  study- 
ing, just  in  case  I  should  get  another 
chance  on  Broadway.  I  had  five  years 
with  Benno  Schneider,   who  taught  very 


PERMANENT   DARKENER  i°^,:^% 
FOR  LASHES  AND  BROWS  :^;l, 

•  NOT  AN  ANAUNE  DY£I 

•  I  APPLICATION  lASTS  4  to  5  WBCKSI 

Takes  just  teconds  fo  apply . . .  stays  on  4  to 

5  weeks!   "Dark-Eyes"   ?s  the  perfect  way  to 

make  eyelashes  and  brows  completely  natural 

looking... and   it  will    not  harden   or  breok 

them  I    "Dork-Eyes"    is    NOT    A    MASCARAI 

Will    not  stick  to  eyelash   curler.    Eliminates 

the    bother    of    daily    eye    make-up. 

It  is  PERMANENT,  SWIMPROOF, 

SMUDGEPROOF,  TEARPROOF,  ond 

SMEARPROOFI 

$1.25  (plus  tax)  at  leading  drag, 
dept.  and  variety  cftai'n  stores. 


SEND  TODAY 

for 

niAL  SIZE 

NO  DELAY— 
your  trial  order 
shipped  in  24 
hours ' 

"DARK-EYES"  COMPANY,  Dopf.  P-47 
3319  W.  Carroll  Ave.,  Chicago  24,  III. 

I  enclose  25c  (coin  or  stamps— tax  included)  for 
TRIAL  SIZE  pkg.  of  "Dark-Eyes"  with  directions. 
check  shade:  []  light  Brown  Q  Brown  D  ■'<«'' 

Name_ — 

Address . — — - — 

Town- 


_State_ 


OLD  LEG  TROUBLE 


i 


Easy  to  use  Viscose  Applications  may 
heal  many  old  leg  sores  due  to  venous 
congestion  of  varicose  veins,  leg  swell- 
ing or  injuries.  Send  today  for  a  FREE 
BOOK  and  No-Cost-For-Trial-plan. 

R.   G.    VISCOSE   COMPANY 
140  N.  Dearborn  Street,    Ctiicaeo  2.  Ilfinols 


High  School  Course 

at  Home 


Mony  Finish  in  2  Years 

I  as  rapidly  as  your  time  and  abilitiea  permit.  Coarse 

I  equivalent  to  resident  school  work  —  prepares  for  college 
I  entrance  exams.  Standard  H.  S.  texts  Bupplied.  Diploma. 

ICreditfor  H.  S.  Bnbjecta  already  completed.  Single  Bnbjects  it 
I  desired.  Bi^h  Bchool  edacatioD  ts  very  important  for  advancemeot 
I  in  bosiness  and  indostry  and  aociallr.  Etoa't  be  handicapped  all 
I  yoor  life.  Be  a  Hi?b  School  ffradoate.  Start  7oar  tramins  now. 
I  Free  Balletin  on  request.  No  obllfntioD. 

I  American  School,  Dept.H453 ,  Drexel  at  58th,  Chicago  37 

People  60  to  80: 
Tear  Out  This  Ad 

. . .  and  mail  it  today  to  find  out  how 
you  can  still  apply  for  a  $1,000  life 
insurance  policy  to  help  take  care  of 
final  expenses  without  burdening 
your  family. 

You  handle  the  entire  transaction 
by  mail  with  OLD  AMERICAN  of 
KANSAS  CITY.  No  obligation.  No 
one  will  call  on  you! 

Write  today,  simply  giving  your  ^ 

name,  address  and  age.  Mail  to  Old  v 

American  Ins.  Co.,  1  West  9th,  Dept.  R 
L461M,  Kansas  City,  Mo. 

oO 


PLAY 

RIGHT 

AWAY! 

ANY  INSTRUMENT 

— even  if  you  don'f 
know  a  single  note  now! 

Now  It's  EASY  to  leam  ANT  Instrument.  No  boring 
exercises.  Even  if  you  don't  know  a  single  note  now, 
we'll  have  you  playing  delightful  pieces  RIGHT  AWAY — 
right  from  your  FIKST  lesson  1  And  properly,  BY  NOTE. 
Simple  as  A-B-C.  Make  amazing  progress.  No  special 
"talent"  needed.  Leam  at  home  in  spare 
time,  without  a  teacher.  Only  a  few  cents  . 
per  lesson.  Soon  play  any  piece  you  wish.  ' 
FREE  BOOK  tells  how  easily  you  can 
learn.  Just  send  this  ad,  with  your  name 
and  address  filled  in  below,  to:  U.  S. 
SCHOOL  OF  MUSIC,  Studio  A-204, 
Port  Washington,  N.Y.  (No obligation,  no  salesman  will  call.) 


Name. . . 
Address . 


'For  Quick  Relief 
Ask  your  Druggist  for 


FREE  KIT 

Our  FREE  subscription  sales  l(it  helps  you  earn 
money.  Write  for  it  today:  Macfadden  Pub- 
lications, 205  E.  42  St.,  N.  Y.  17,  N.  Y. 

LEG   SUFFERERS 

Why  continue  to  sufler  irithout  attempt- 
ing to  do  Bomething?  Write  today  for  New 
Booklet— "THE  LIEPE  METHODS  FOK 
HOME  USE."  It  tells  about  Varicose 
tJlcers  and  Open  Leg  Sores.  Liepe  Methods 
used  while  you  walk.  More  than  60  years  of 
success.  Praised  and  en- 
dorsed by  multitudes. 
LIEPE  METHODS,  3250  N.  Green  Bay  Ave., 
Dept.  D-2S,  Milwaukee  12,  Wiscanslnl 


FREE 

BOOKLET 


k/I^HOie 


MAKE    $50-$60    A   WEEK 

You  can  leam  practical  nursing  at  home 
in  spare  time.   Course  supervised  by 
doctor.  Thousands  of  graduates.  58th 
yr.  One  graduate  has  charge  of  10-bed 
hospital.    Another   saved    $400   while 
learning.   Equipment  Included.   Men, 
women,    18    to    60.    High    school   not 
required.  Easy  tuition  payments.  Trial  plan.  Write  today. 
CHICAGO    SCHOOL    OF     NURSING 
Dept.  24,   25   East  Jackson    Blvd.,    Chicago  4,    III. 
Please  send  tree  booklet  and  16  sample  lesson  pages. 

fiame . 

Citv 


Jitate_ 


-ioe_ 


Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 
New  Way  Without  Surgery 

Science  Find*  Healing  Substance  That 
Relieves  Pain— Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 

For  the  first  time  science  has  found  a 
new  healing  substance  with  the  astonishing 
ability  to  shrink  hemorrhoids  and  to  relieve 
pain  —  without  surgery. 

In  case  after  case,  while  gently  relieving 
pain,  actual  reduction  (shrinkage)  took 
place. 

Most  amazing  of  all  -  results  were  so 
thorough  that  sufferers  made  astonishing 
statements  like  "Piles  have  ceased  to  be  a 
problem!" 

The   secret   is   a   new   healing   substance 
(Bio-Dyne*) -discovery  of  a  world-famous 
T        research  institute. 

¥  This  substance  is  now  available  in  aup- 

H        pository  or  ointment  form  under  the  name 

Preparation  H*  Ask  for  it  at  all  drug  count- 

ers— money  back  guarantee.     'Beg.  u.  8.  Pat.  off. 

00 


much  the  same  'method'  the  Actors' 
Studio  uses  today."  / 

It  is  just  this  varied  experience  which 
has  made  it  possible  for  Joan  to  play  the 
"menace"  on  Backstage  Wife — and  then, 
less  than  one  hour  later,  be  equally  as 
convincing  as  the  soft-spoken  heroine  on 
Young  Dr.  Malone.  And,  in  1955,  she  re- 
turned to  Broadway  to  take  on  quite  an- 
other type  of  role,  as  the  challenging  fe- 
male lead  in  the  hit  whodunit,  "Witness 
for  the  Prosecution." 

"You  might  say,"  Joan  interjects,  "that 
that  Broadway  stint  whetted  my  appetite 
for  more  ...  and,  even  though  I  can't 
talk  about  it  right  now,  I  am  hoping  to  do 
another  play  in  the  near  future.  If  I  do 
return  to  Broadway,  there  will  be  a  major 
difference  from  years  ago  .  .  .  I've  been 
sufficiently  lucky  that  now  I  can  do  the 
things  I  want  to  do,  not  have  to  do  just 
anything  to  keep  going." 

Yes,  even  though  Joan  was  not  always 
lucky  in  her  chosen  profession  and  has 
had  her  share  of  hard  knocks  .  .  .  after 
eighteen  years  of  conscientious  work,  she 
has  arrived  at  the  most  enviable  position 
of  being  able  to  do  what  she  wants  to  do. 
But,  to  be  the  luckiest  girl  aUve,  one  must 
have  luck  personally  as  well  as  profes- 
sionally. Like  anyone  else,  Joan's  per- 
sonal Mfe  has  had  its  ups  and  downs  .  .  . 
which  in  itself  could  be  a  good  thing, 
since  it  is  often  the  contrast  which  makes 
one  appreciate  the  good  things  when  they 
come  along. 

Today  it  is  hard  to  imagine  that  Joan 
Alexander  was  ever  insecure  within  her- 
self. But  the  fact  is  that,  as  a  child,  she 
claims  to  have  been  most  insecure — "prob- 
ably because  I  spent  so  much  time  in 
boarding  schools  and  developed  a  feeling 
of  being  pushed  away  from  the  family. 
Believe  me,  there  will  be  no  boarding 
schools  for  my  children  .  .  .  going  away 
to  college  will  be  soon  enough." 

As  her  career  progressed,  she  naturally 
developed  a  sense  of  security,  a  belief  in 
herself.  But  as  she  will  tell  you,  it  takes 
love — unstinting  love — to  produce  a  really 
secure  person.  With  Arthur  Stanton  she 
has  that. 

However,  love  was  not  always  kind  to 
Joan.  Her  first  marriage  dissolved  in  the 
divorce  courts.  It  was  a  real  low  point. 
Then  in  June,  1953,  life  perked  up.  She 
met  Arthur  Stanton  at  a  party  .  .  .  and, 
a  few  months  later,  they  were  married  in 
Mexico. 

"Arthur's  business  is  pretty  far  afield 
from  the  theater,"  Joan  continues.  "He's 
in  charge  of  distribution  of  the  Volks- 
wagen in  six  Eastern  states.  But  his  out- 
side interests  all  dwell  with  the  creative 
arts  and  the  people  in  them.  That  party 
where  we  met  was  a  group  composed 
mainly  of  theatrical  people.  We  have  so 
many  friends  in  common  that  it's  amazing 
we  never  met  before  we  did!  Besides  the 
acting  profession,  Arthur  has  a  lot  of 
friends  in  the  arts  .  .  .  writing  and  paint- 
ing. One  of  our  common  interests  is  art, 
although  Arthur's  knowledge  rather  out- 
distances mine.  In  fact,  over  the  course 
of  years  he's  become  what  you  might  call 
a  small  collector  .  .  .  Picasso  prints  and 
lithographs,  Phillipe  Bonnet  oils,  a  Marini 
sculpture,  to  name  a  few.  He  has  won- 
derful  taste. 

"In  the  past,  I've  decorated  several  of 
my  own  apartments— and,  even  if  I  do  say 
so  myself,  they've  been  attractive.  But, 
compared  with  this  apartment,  they've 
been  pretty  conventional.  I  suppose  that's 
one  of  the  reasons  I've  had  such  fun 
workmg  on  this  apartment  .  .  .  with  the 
help  of  Arthur,  I've  finally  been  able  to 
master  my  inhibitions  about  decorating. 

"Of  course,  the  size  and  arrangement 
of  rooms  has  helped  make  the  decorating 
a  httle  easier  than  is  usually  the  case  with 
New   York    apartments.    With   ten   rooms 


I 


and  three  baths,  it  hasn't  been  necessary 
to  make  rooms  or  comers  'double 
brass,'  so  to  speak.  That  in  itself  gave 
me  freedom  of  thought,  which  wasn't 
ever  the  case  in  the  past.  Fimny,  now 
that  I  think  of  it,  but  tiivi  only  room  that 
isn't  finished  is  the  den,  and  that's  the  one 
room  which  may  see  double  duty  .  .  . 
overflow  overnight  guests. 

"It's  probably  the  most  conventional 
room  in  the  apartment,  except  for  the 
color  scheme.  The  walls  are  a  deep  but 
soft  green — a  bitter  green — and  the  carpet 
will  be  blue.  Startle  you?  Well,  it  did 
me,  too,  at  first,  but  that's  where  Arthur's 
artistic  coiu^age  comes  in. 

"Nor  would  it  ever  occur  to  me  to  mix 
as  many  periods  and  nationalities,  so  to 
speak,  in  one  house  or  apartment  as  we've 
done  in  one  room  .  .  .  the  hving  room. 
It's  a  large  room,  twenty-nine  by  eighteen, 
so  it's  not  crowded.  But,  even  so,  there's 
a  contemporary  couch,  an  English  coffee 
table,  a  French  chair,  a  Biedermyer  table 
and  a  French  iron  bookcase,  to  name  a 
few  pieces.  One  of  the  most  outstanding 
features,  to  my  way  of  thinking,  is  the 
wall  that  houses  the  fireplace.  It's  wood, 
lightly  painted  white  so  that  the  knot- 
holes and  graining  show  through. 

"The  dining  room  is  quite  interesting, 
too.  One  wall  is  a  series  of  windows  to 
which  we've  attached  white  louvre  shut- 
ters as  the  Swiss  do.  The  table  is  a  copy 
of  a  French  one  ...  an  oval,  marble- 
topped  table  with  iron  legs.  Suspended 
from  the  ceiling  is  a  large,  black,  painted 
French  tole  chandelier.  The  buffet  is  an 
English  hunt  table.  I  guess  we've  been 
pretty  unconventional  in  our  decor  for 
most  of  the  rooms. 

"That  is,  all  except  the  nursery  .  ,  . 
which  is  just  plain  nursery  and — senti- 
mentally at  least — my  favorite  room.  It 
certainly  is  one  of  the  most  used  rooms  in 
the  ap.  -tmont.  Though  I  have  a  nurse  - 
for  Adam,  Jane  loves  him  so  much  she's  ■ 
always  in  there  'tending  Bab-O'  as  she  ¥ 
calls  the  baby.  You  see,  when  we  brought 
Adam  home  from  the  hospital,  Janie  wasn't 
sure  just  how  much  she  hked  him.  Up 
to  this  point,  she  had  been  my  only  chUd 
.  .  .  and,  as  was  to  be  expected,  a  little 
jealousy  or  insecurity  reared  its  head.  Her 
first  impulse  was  to  put  Adam  in  the  sink 
and  wash  him  down  the  drain  with  Bab-O 
.  .  .  which  is  how  he  got  his  nickname! 
However,  that  situation  cleared  up  quick- 
ly, and  now  they're  inseparable.  It's  real- 
ly quite  amazing — and,  needless  to  say, 
gratifying — to  see  how  expert  Janie  has 
become  with  the  baby.  I  have  absolutely 
no  qualms  about  leaving  Adam  in  her 
care.  She's  just  wonderful  with  him,  and 
sometimes  I  think  he  prefers  her  to  me. 
He  almost  always  makes  tracks  for  Jane 
.  .  .  Mommy  and  Daddy  get  his  full  at- 
tention only  when  Janie  isn't  there  to  play 
with  him. 

"But  then,  I'm  really  grateful  that  the 
situation  is  as  it  is.  After  all,  I  know  all 
about  insecurity  and  the  dreadful  things 
it  can  do  to  youngsters.  I  know  how  dif- 
ficult it  is  to  overcome  this  handicap  as  an 
adult.  I  don't  want  my  children  to  feel 
uncertain  or  unstable  because  of  anything 
I've  done  ...  or  not  done.  I  not  only 
want  them  to  know  they're  deeply  loved 
by  Arthur  and  myself,  but  I  hope  they 
will  develop  a  true  devotion  to  each  other. 
If  you'll  pardon  a  cliche,  love  does  make 
the  world  go  'round.  Love  is  the  only  real 
buffer  we  have  against  the  elements.  I 
have  it  now,  and  it's  the  one  thing  I  really 
want  for  my  children.  If  they  have  that, 
the  other  good  things  in  life  will  just 
naturally  fall  in  place.  They  have  for 
me,  so  why  shouldn't  they  do  the  same  for 
everybody? 

"Hm-m-m-m.    Yes,  I  am  a  lucky  girl, 
If  not  the  luckiest — well  then,  I'd  like 
meet  her!" 


»irl.  1 


An  Evening  With  Elvis 


(Continued  from  page  51) 
to  Humes  in  the  eighth  grade  and  stayed 
on  to  graduate  in  1953.  As  Humes  is  a 
pretty  large  school,  no  one  really  noticed 
Elvis  too  much  until  he  began  to  sing  at 
school  parties  and  functions.  I  can  re- 
member lots  of  times  seeing  Elvis  walk 
down  the  hall  with  his  guitar  in  his  hand. 
It  was  noticeable  because  no  one  else 
brought  a  guitar  to  school  except  Elvis. 
And  I  just  sort  of  marveled  at  the  way 
he  sang,  because  I  really  hadn't  ever  seen 
one  of  the  students  get  up  and  sing  and 
play  a  guitar  at  the  same  time.  EUvis 
seemed  to  have  talent,  I  thought,  and 
anyway,  no  one  else  ever  volunteered  to 
sing.   But,  boy,  Elvis  was  always  ready. 

In  the  twelfth  grade  I  was  elected 
president  of  the  class  and  also  editor  of 
the  school  paper,  and  I  had  a  couple  of 
classes  with  Elvis  in  the  senior  year.  I 
remember  in  particular  a  class  called 
American  Problems,  a  discussion  class 
dealing  with  the  general  problems  fac- 
ing us  then,  such  as  the  election,  taxes, 
various  laws,  and  so  on.  It  was  a  per- 
formance class  in  which  the  students  had 
to  make  oral  reports.  You  can  take  my 
word  EUvis  certainly  held  his  own. 

About  this  time  Elvis'  sideburns  began 
to  show  up  pretty  good,  since  he  was 
maturing,  as  all  seventeen-year-old  boys 
do.  Elvis  took  quite  a  bit  of  kidding 
about  the  now-famous  sideburns.  Elvis 
didn't  seem  to  mind  and  went  right  along 
with  the  kidding. 

Elvis  wasn't  one  of  the  best-dressed 
kids  in  school,  as  his  parents  were  having 
a  pretty  tough  time.  But  he  always  seemed 
to  dress  real  "catty"  and  looked  pretty 
sharp.  Well,  anyway,  one  feUow  in  par- 
ticular used  to  kid  Elvis  a  lot  about  the 
way  he  dressed.  This  guy  wore  some 
pretty  nice  clothes  and  was  sharp  him- 
self. However,  Elvis,  although  he  couldn't 
afford  expensive  clothing,  managed  to 
get  by.  Elvis  took  the  kidding  from  this 
fellow  without  saying  anything.  It  was 
as  though  he  was  thinking,  okay,  wise 
guy,  someday  you'll  eat  those  words.  And 
so,  because  of  Elvis'  good  nature,  the 
other  classmates  seemed  to  lay  off  Elvis 
and  give  this  other  guy  the  eye.  Elvis  was 
okay  in  our  book. 

The  last  time  I  heard  and  saw  Elvis  sing 
in  high  school  was  at  a  variety  show  in 
the  spring  of  our  senior  year.  It's  real  fun- 
ny that,  once  again,  I  can't  tell  you  any- 
thing about  anybody  else  on  the  show  ex- 
cept Elvis.  Elvis  sang  a  couple  of  country 
and  Western  songs  that  night  (as  that  was 
his  style  then).  And,  believe  me,  he  got 
the  biggest  applause  of  the  night.  You 
could  sort  of  tell  he  was  really  happy  and 
pleased.  In  fact,  he  showed  more  profes- 
sionalism than  anybody  else  on  the  show. 
As  he  stepped  back  before  he  sang  the 
second  song,  he  dedicated  it  to  a  couple 
of  my  friends  in  the  audience.  He  did  this 
in  a  kidding  manner,  and  our  fellow  stu- 
dents got  a  real  kick  out  of  it. 

After  graduation  I  didn't  see  a  whole 
lot  of  Elvis,  as  I  went  to  college  (Memphis 
State  here  in  Memphis)  and  Elvis  went  to 
work.  However,  I  didn't  live  too  far  from 
Elvis,  so  I  frequently  ran  into  him.  In  the 
meantime  I  had  landed  a  part-time  job  at 
night  at  Radio  Station  WHBQ.  One  night, 
I  remember,  I  was  walking  down  Main 
Street  to  the  station  and  I  ran  into  Elvis. 
We  shot  the  bull  for  a  while.  He  said  that 
he  had  heard  Dewey  Phillips  (who  later 
played  a  big  part  in  starting  Elvis  on  the 
road  to  success)  mention  my  name  on  his 
show.  Dewey  and  I  both  worked  the  night 
shift  at  WHBQ  and  I  was  frequently 
around  when  he  was  on  the  air.  Some- 
times  I   sort    of   helped    Dewey    do    little 


things  to  prepare  for  his  show,  and  thus 
he  talked  about  me  on  the  air.  Elvis  and 
I  chatted  a  while  and  then  we  talked 
about  college.  Elvis  said  he  wished  he  had 
been  able  to  go  to  college.  He  said  that  he 
was  then  working  in  a  machine  shop  and 
it  was  kind  of  tough  but  he  liked  it  and 
was  getting  a  fair  salary. 

The  next  time  I  saw  Elvis  was  a  couple 
of  months  later,  and  he  said  that  he  was 
now  driving  a  truck  and  working  for 
Crown  Electric  Company  here  in  Memphis. 
Shortly  after  that,  Memphis  State  College 
was  recessed  for  the  summer.  I  had  been 
offered  a  summer  disk-jockey  job  in  a 
town  about  fifty  miles  from  Memphis.  I 
used  to  come  home  for  a  couple  of  days  a 
week.  And  usually  I  would  stop  by  and 
chat  with  Dewey  Phillips  at  WHBQ.  Well, 
one  night,  just  as  I  walked  into  the  sta- 
tion, Dewey  grabbed  me  by  the  arm.  He 
said,  "Come  here,  I  want  you  to  listen  to  a 
new  record."  He  seemed  very  excited. 
Along  we  went  to  his  studio  and  he  put  a 
record  on  the  turntable.  The  first  thing  I 
heard  was  "Blue  moon,  blue  moon"  (the 
name  of  the  record  was  "Blue  Moon  of 
Kentucky").  I  was  puzzled  as  to  who  was 
singing.  Dewey  said,  "You  ought  to  know 
him,  since  you  and  he  went  to  school 
together — "   "Elvis?"  I  shouted. 

Dewey  began  to  tell  me  the  whole  story 
about  how  Sam  Phillips  of  Sun  Record 
Company  in  Memphis  had  recorded  Elvis 
and  developed  this  new  style  of  singing. 
The  record  hadn't  even  been  released  yet. 
Dewey  was  telling  me  how  Sam  brought 
the  record  up  to  him,  the  night  before. 
Dewey  played  it  on  his  show.  The  reaction 
was  tremendous  as  telegrams  and  phone 
calls  galore  came  in  requesting  to  hear  the 
record  again.  "Well,"  Dewey  said,  "before 
the  night  was  up,  I  had  played  the  record 
seven  times."  Dewey  told  me  that,  after 
the  telegrams  and  phone  calls  began  to 
come  in,  he  got  Elvis  up  to  the  station 
and  Dewey  interviewed  him  over  the  air. 
Dewey  told  me  that  Elvis  called  him  "Mr." 
Phillips  (which  made  Dewey  feel  real 
good).  He  reminded  Elvis  just  to  call  him 
Dewey  during  the  interview.  But  not 
Elvis.  He  called  him  "Mr."  PhilUps  aU 
during  the  interview. 

That  night  Dewey  gave  me  an  extra 
copy  of  the  record.  I  took  it  with  me  back 
to  the  station  I  was  then  working  at,  just 
outside  of  Memphis.  I  began  to  play  it  on 
my  show.  I  told  the  other  disk  jockeys  on 
the  station  to  spin  the  record,  too.  I 
thought  maybe  if  we  all  played  the  record 
it  would  help  Elvis  and  sort  of  "push"  the 
record.  Boy,  did  I  tell  my  listeners  that  I 
had  gone  to  school  with  Elvis  and  how 
great  I  thought  he  was!  I  was  really  seri- 
ous about  it.  First,  I  knew  the  guy  sing- 
ing and  had  gone  to  school  with  him.  Sec- 
ond, the  record  sounded  different  and  had 
a  good  "big  beat."  I  checked  with  Dewey 
and  Sam  Phillips  in  Memphis  for  the  next 
couple  of  weeks.  They  said  that  Elvis'  rec- 
ord was  the   "hottest"  thing  in  Memphis. 

When  my  summer  job  ended,  I  came 
back  to  Memphis.  A  new  shopping  center 
was  opening,  and  I  landed  a  free-lance 
sort  of  emcee-deejay  stint  at  the  grand 
opening.  Guess  who  the  entertainment  was 
for  the  night?  Yep,  it  was  Elvis.  As  far  as 
I  can  remember,  this  was  Elvis'  first  ap- 
pearance in  public  before  a  fairly  large 
crowd.  Elvis  got  there  a  Uttle  early  that 
night,  and  I  went  over  and  talked  with 
him.  While  we  were  talking,  yoiuig  teen- 
age girls  gathered  around  him  and  were 
asking  him  for  his  autograph.  He  very 
happily  consented.  Right  then  and  there,  it 
looked  as  though  Elvis  was  really  on  his 
way.  The  teenagers  that  night  were  seri- 
ous about  Elvis  and  really  liked  him.   This 


Special  New  Tablet 

Relieves  Monthly  Cramps 

for3  out  of  4  in  Tests! 


Amazing  new  formula  developed 

especially  for  female  distress  gives 

greater  relief  than  aspirin! 

If  you  dread  those  "difficult  days"  each 
month,  listen!  Science  has  developed  a 
special  new  tablet  to  relieve  pain,  cramps, 
and  tense  feelings  of  monthly  periods! 
It  contains  a  unique  combination  of  medi- 
cines— including  blood-building  iron. 
Thus  offers  more  relief  than  plain  aspirin! 

In  doctors'  teats  painful  distress  was 
relieved  for  3  out  of  4  women!  Many 
didn't  suifer  even  on  the  first  day !  They 
also  escaped  much  of  the  jitters  and  un- 
happy tension  so  common  as  you  ap- 
proach that  trying  time  of  month. 

So  don't  suffer  needlessly.  Ask  for 
"Lydia  Pinkham  Tablets"  at  drug  stores. 
No  prescription  needed.  See  if  they  don't 
help  you  feel  worlds  better— both  before 
and  during  your  period! 


PnFM^WANTED 

■      ^^  ^^  I W I  ^v  ^°^  musical  setting  .  .  .  send 

^^  ^^  Poems    today.    Any   subject. 

Immediate    consideration.    Phonograph    records    made. 

CROWN  MUSIC  CO.,49  W.  32  St.,Studio  560, New  York  1 


te  S  '^  deJcgnet 


Make  This 

Mollie  Parnis 

Original  j^ 

and  be  the 

Best  Dressed  Girl 

In  Town 


Let  these  famous 
American  Designers 
help  you  be  the  best 
dressed  girl  in  town — - 
if  you  can  sew: — 

Ceil  Chapman 
Claire  McCardell  — / 
Tina  Leser — Jo  Cope- 
land — Philip  Mangone 
—  Monte  Sano  —  Her- 
bert Sondheim — Brigance — David  Goodstein — 
Joset  Walker — Joseph  Halpert — Vera  MaxTtell 
— Toni  Owen — Fira — Benenson — Harvey  Benn 
— Frank  Gallant — Mollie  Parnis — Clare  Potter. 

Patterns  of  136  original  designs  by  these  fa- 
mous names  are  now  available. 

To  see  this  entire  collection  send  50c  for  our 
100-page  pattern  booklet  XI. 


MOLLIE  PARNIS 


World  Wide,  Dept.  WG-4-57 

63  Central  Avenue,  Ossining,  N.  Y. 

Send   me    100-page   pattern   booklet   XI.   I   en- 
close fifty  cents. 

NAME 

STREET 

CITY 

ZONE STATE 


T 
V 
R 

87 


Llghlsnsilark 
skin  and  uely 
spDis  almost 
ovsrnleht. 


m  w     y    ^    ^ 
I       Can't  Get  Rid  of 
[Dark  or  Discolored  Skin, 
^Freckles,SkinSpots?^ 

HERE'S  HELP!  Mercolized  Wax  Cream 
7  NIGHT  PLAN  Lightens, 
Beautifies  Skin  WhilcYou  Sleep 

Just  follow  the  famous  Mercolized  Wax 
Cream  7  Night  Plan  to  a  whiter,  smoother, 
lovelier  skin.  Smooth  rich,  luxurious  Mer- 
colized Wax  Cream  on  your  face  or  arms 
just  before  retiring  each  night  for  one  week. 
You'll  begin  to  see  results  almost 
at  once  .  .  .  lightens  dark  skin, 
blotches,  spots,  freckles  as  if  by 
magicl  This  is  not  a  cover  up  cos- 
metic; Mercolized  Wax  Cream 
works  UNDER  the  skin  surface. 
Beautiful  women  have  used  this 
time-tested  plan  for  over  40  years  — you'll 
love  it's  fast,  sure,  longer  lasting  results! 
Mercolized  Wax  Cream  is  sold  on  100%  guar- 
antee or  money  back.    Start  using  it  nowl 

MERCOLIZED  WAX  CREAM 

At  All  Drug  and  Cosmetic  Counters 

DANCING  SHOES^SUPPLIES 

Elastic     Leotard     with     Nylon     net     tu     tu     ^ 
Ideal  Recital  Costume.  Pastel  Shades,  Black  &  Red.^^^ 
Child's.  2  to  l2,$3.95:Adult's,  Sm.,  Med.,  Lg., $4.75. \' 
BATON— DRUM  CORPS  SUPPLIES 
SKATING  SKIRTS— Roller  or  lee. 
Catalog  20c  (may  be  applied  to  purchase) 
Quincon  Supplies,  Dept.D,  Box  422,  Quincy  69,  MasSi 

THIS  AD  IS  WORTH  IVIONEY! 

Let  us  show  you  how  to  make  big  money  in  your 
spare  time  by  helping  us  take  orders  for  maga- 
zine subscriptions.  Write  today  for  FREE  money- 
making  information.  There  is  no  obligation. 

MACFADDEN    PUBLICATIONS 
205    E.    42nci    St.,    New    York    17,    N.    Y. 


ASTHMA  symptoms! 


When  asthma  symptoms  attack— 
light  up  a  Dr.  R.  Schiffmann's 
ASTHMADOR  Cigarette!  Feel 
better  with  the  first  soothing  puff! 

ASTHMADOR  cigarettes 

ASK  YOUR  DRUGGIST 


'500  o^Childs  Photo 


Yes,  up  to  $500  and  more  PAID  if  used  for 
TV,  Calendar  or  Magazine  Ads.  YOUR  CHILD 
has  same  opportunity.  Send  ONE  small  photo 
for  approval.  Print  child's  and  mother's  name 
and  address  on  back.  Returned  in  2  weeks 
with  report.  (Ages  6  mo,  to  18  yrs.) 

NOOeilGATION.  (Established  1946) 
HOLLYWOOD  SPOTLITE,  Dept.  AD 
8346   Beverly  Blvd.,    Hollywood,   Calif. 


TROUBLED 
WITH 

UNWANTED 
HAIR? 


.PROVIDENCE  15,  R.  I. 


You  needn't  bel  Now  you  can 
remove  unwanted  hair  forever 
—  in  the  privacy  of  your  home 
,  —  with  the  famous  Mahler  Hair 
I  Removal  Epllator!  Acclaimed 
by  thousands  of  women  who 
have  discovered  how  Mahler 
destroys  the  hair  root  perma- 
nently! By  following  our  instruc- 
"ons  you.  too,  can  learn  to  use 
Rthe  Mahler  safely  and  effi- 
^ciently!  Positive  money-back 
quaranteel   Act  today! 


Send  5$   for 
booklet  "Ne 


illustrated  16-page 
'  Radiant  Beauty'  1 


Corn  Rain  Stopped 
Fast 


W 

V 

I 

/ 

V 

W^ 

^y 

'kj 

I 

^ 

WkL 

^ 

1^ 

^ 

%^ 

Out  Come 
Corns  in 
a  Hurry! 

Dr.  Scholl's  Zino-pads  not  only  give  fast  nerve-deep 
relief  from  pain,  but  also  remove  corns  one  of  the 
quickest  ways  known  to  medical  science.  Try  them ! 


pleased  me,  because  I  had  been  plugging 
Elvis  all  day  on  the  public  addres^  sy  tem. 
Elvis  went  over  real  big  with  ;me  crowd 
that  night  and  the  town  began  to  buzz. 
Everyone  was  talking  about  Elvis. 

A  couple  of  weeks  later,  Elvis  started 
singing,  in  a  local  night  spot,  and  then 
from  there  he  went  on  tour  around  the 
mid-South.  But  the  news  that  really  got 
Memphis  stirred  up  about  Elvis  was  when 
they  found  out  he  was  to  appear  on  a 
national  television  show  (the  Dorsey 
Brothers'  Stage  Show).  I'll  bet  every  TV 
set  in  Memphis  was  tuned  to  that  show. 

A  couple  of  weeks  later,  Elvis  came 
home.  To  show  his  appreciation  to  Dewey 
for  helping  him  get  started,  he  did  a  free 
show  for  him.  Dewey  asked  me  to  help  him 
out.  Boy,  did  we  go  to  work!  The  show 
only  featured  Elvis.  It  was  held  in  a  local 
hotel.  The  show  didn't  start  till  eight 
P.M.,  but  the  people  started  lining  up  at 
six.  By  eight  we  were  sold  out  complete- 
ly: We  had  to  turn  away  about  five  hun- 
dred people  that  night,  and  some  of  them 
had  come  two  hundred  or  three  hundred 
miles  to  hear  Elvis  Presley.  You  talk 
about  a  wild  show,  that  was  it. 

Elvis  then  went  back  to  New  York,  as  he 
had  about  four  or  five  more  appearances 
on  the  Stage  Show.  From  there  on  in, 
the  rest  of  the  story  concerning  Elvis  na- 
tionally is  well  known. 

But  the  best  performance  I  ever  saw 
Elvis  do  was  this  past  spring,  during  the 
Cotton  Carnival  here  in  Memphis.  The 
show  was  held  in  the  auditorium  down- 
town and  both  halls  were  packed  to  the 
rooftops  (a  major  feat  in  Memphis).  Elvis 
usually  stays  out  on  stage  about  twenty 
minutes,  but  that  night  he  was  on  stage 
performing  for  forty-five  minutes.  The 
only  thing  that  made  him  stop  was  that  he 
was  completely  exhausted  and  could  hard- 
ly breathe.  This  was,  without  a  doubt,  the 
greatest  show  I  have  ever  seen  Elvis  do. 
It  was  as  if  lightning  had  struck. 

The  next  thing  we  knew  about  Elvis  was 
that  he  had  signed  a  movie  contract.  We 
didn't  see  much  of  him  for  a  couple  of 
months,  since  he  was  in  Hollywood  making 
"Love  Me  Tender."  But,  as  soon  as  the 
major  part  of  the  picture  had  been  made, 
Elvis  came  home.  He  dropped  by  to  visit  me 
at  the  station  (by  this  time  I  had  switched 
to  Station  WMC  and  had  my  own  three- 
hour-long  rock  'n'  roll  show).  With  him 
were  Nick  Adams,  the  actor,  and  Barbara 
Hearn,  Elvis'  girl  here  in  Memphis.  I  in- 
terviewed Elvis  on  the  air.  As  we  let  teen- 
agers come  down  to  the  studio  and  dance, 
there  was  a  crowd  there.  They  nearly 
busted  the  studio  windows  trying  to  get 
a  peek  at  Elvis. 

I  asked  Elvis  how  he  liked  Hollywood. 
He  said,  "I  like  it  okay,  because  everyone 
out  there  was  real  nice  to  me."  I  asked 
him  how  he  managed  to  memorize  his 
lines,  as  he  wasn't  even  in  a  school  play 
over  at  Humes  High  School.  Elvis  replied 
that  it  was  easy,  and  that  the  rest  of  the 
cast  were  surprised  at  how  easily  he  re- 
membered his  lines.  Elvis  said  he  believed 
this  came  from  having  to  memorize  so 
many  songs.  While  we  were  chatting  on 
the  air,  I  said,  "Did  anything  unusual 
happen  while  you  were  making  the  pic- 
ture?" Elvis  said,  "There  was  one  scene 
where  I  was  riding  a  horse  under  some 
trees.  Well,  the  horse  ran  into  a  limb  and 
I  got  knocked  off.  The  funny  part  about  it 
was  that  I  didn't  get  hurt  at  all,  but  the 
director  Robert  Webb  almost  swallowed 
the  cigarette  he  was  smoking." 

On  that  day  it  wasn't  more  than  five 
minutes  after  Elvis  arrived  at  Station 
WMC  to  appear  on  my  show  before  two 
photographers  and  three  newspaper  re- 
porters turned  up  to  catch  him  iEor  a  pic- 
ture and  a  word  or  two.  Boy,  did  the  word 
travel  fast  to  the  town  that  he  was  there! 


Elvis  headed  back  to  HoUjrwood  to  fin- 
ish up  the  picture  and  then  came  back  to 
Memphis.  I  told  him  that  I  had  his  new 
RCA  record  albtun  and  asked  him  about  a 
couple  of  the  songs.  Elvis  said  that  he 
didn't  even  know  the  album  was  out  and 
asked  if  I'd  bring  it  out  to  his  house  so  he 
could  nlay  it.  When  I  got  there,  about  two- 
hundred  people  were  standing  out  front 
of  the  house  hoping  Elvis  would  come  and 
talk  to  them.  There  was  a  policeman  and 
a  plain-clothes  guard  at  the  gate  keeping 
the  crowd  away  from  the  house.  I  went  in. 

Elvis  noticed  that  I  had  the  album,  so 
he  put  it  on  the  record  player  and  we 
talked  about  several  of  the  songs.  I  told 
Elvis  a  couple  of  fellows  who  were  in 
Humes  High  with  us  were  cut  front.  The 
guard  wouldn't  let  them  in.  Elvis  went  out 
himself  and  brought  them  in.  So  we  all 
gathered  in  Elvis'  room  and  started  ask- 
ing him  questions  about  Hollywood  and 
the  movies. 

Just  then,  June  Juanico,  e.  model  from 
Biloxi,  and  her  sister  arrived.  Elvis'  moth- 
er and  father  had  just  picked  them  up  at 
the  airport.  They  had  invited  the  girls  to 
be  Elvis'  house  guest  for  a  couple  of  days. 
I  had  previously  met  June  when  she  was 
in  Memphis  about  a  month  or  two  ago. 
Elvis  gave  her  a  hello  kiss  right  in  front 
of  all  of  us.  Elvis  picked  up  his  conversa- 
tion about  HollyAvood.  He  said  the  only  bad 
part  about  movie-making  is  that  you  have 
to  get  up  at  five  in  the  morning  to  report 
on  set.  He  hates  the  way  they  pack  the 
makeup  on  you,  too. 

He  told  one  anecdote  to  illustrate  how 
green  he  is  about  movie  techniques.  There 
was  a  scene  in  "Love  Me  Tender"  where 
Elvis  shoots  his  brother  (played  by  Rich- 
ard Egan).  When  Elvis  shot  the  gun,  he 
thought  it  contained  a  blank  cartridge. 
Richard  Egan  grabbed  his  shoulder  where 
the  bullet  had  ripped  into  his  shirt.  Blood 
seemed  to  be  gushing  out.  Elvis  said  he 
really  got  scared.  He  had  heard  about 
those  "empty"  guns  that  turned  out  to  be 
loaded.  He  started  to  run  toward  Egan.  He 
thought  he'd  really  shot  him.  Everybody 
on  the  set  started  to  laugh.  It  seems  it's 
an  old  Hollywood  trick.  An  electric  wire 
fires  off  some  powder  on  the  "victim" 
and  breaks  a  sack  of  red  fluid  to  give  a 
realistic  effect  of  bloodshed.  EHvis  said  he 
was  really  embarrassed. 

Elvis  told  us  that  Debra  Paget  was  even 
prettier  off  the  screen  than  on.  She'd  been 
real  nice  and  friendly  toward  him.  On 
Elvis'  dresser  was  a  big  picture  of  Debra 
on  which  she  had  written  a  complimentary 
message  to  Elvis. 

That  night  Elvis  was  wearing  a  blue 
velvet  shirt,  black  denim  pants  and  white 
desert  boots.  I  asked  him  about  the  shirt. 
He  said  that  Natalie  Wood  had  it  made 
for  him  and  she  also  gave  him  a  red  one. 
He  jumped  up  and  went  to  his  closet, 
which  looked  like  a  rack  in  a  clothing 
store,  he  had  so  many,  many  shirts,  pants, 
and  sports  coats.  He  got  the  red  velvet 
shirt  and  showed  it  to  us.  He  said  that 
each  one  cost  seventy-five  dollars.  I 
asked  him  about  Natalie  Wood.  He  told 
us  that  she  was  just  a  friend — very  down- 
to-earth  and  not  stuck-up  at  all. 

I  started  to  ask  Elvis  questions  about 
how  he  felt  about  his  sudden  success.  I 
said,  "What  would  you  have  said  if  some- 
one had  told  you  four  years  ago  that 
someday  you'd  be  the  top  show-business 
attraction  in  the  country?"  He  snapped 
back,  "Why,  I  would  have  told  them  they 
were  crazy. 

"I  never  thought  I'd  be  as  well  off  as 
I  am  now,"  he  said.  "But  somehow  I'd 
always  had  a  feeling  down  deep  that 
someday  I'd  have  something.  I  owe  it  all 
to  the  good  God  above." 

"How  does  it  feel,  Elvis,"  I  asked,  "when 
you    are    on    stage    and    the    fcins    start 


» 


screaming  and  hollering  and  carrying  on?" 

"Well,  when  it  first  started  real  big," 
he  said,  "I'd  look  around  on  stage  for  the 
star.  I  just  couldn't  believe  they  were 
screaming  for  me.  It's  a  real  funny  feel- 
ing. When  I  drive  up  at  night  to  this 
house,  I  just  sit  there  for  a  while  and 
meditate.  I  ask  myself,  'Is  this  really 
me?'  I  still  can't  realize  that  I'm  a  big 
star  and  that  all  this  was  really  destined. 
I'm  afraid  all  the  time  that  I'll  get  big- 
headed.  That's  one  thing  I  don't  want  to 
do.  I've  met  many  people  who  were  just 
half-way  up  the  road  and  thought  them- 
selves big  stars  and  acted  kind  of  stuck- 
up." 

I  asked  Elvis  if  the  fans  in  any  certain 
city  were  more  wild  for  him?  "No,"  he 
said.  "They're  just  alike  all  over.  I  was 
mobbed  in  Kansas  City,  just  like  I  was  in 
California." 

"What  about  New  York?"  I  said. 

"Well,  once  when  I  was  going  shopping 
in  New  York,  some  fans  spotted  me.  They 
started  running  toward  me.  The  shop- 
keeper had  to  slip  me  out  through  the 
back  basement  door.  I  jumped  in  a  cab 
and  shot  back  to  the  hotel.  And  when 
I  was  in  New  York  for  The  Ed  Sullivan 
Show,  I  tried  to  see  the  movie  'Giant' 
twice.  Both  times  I  was  mobbed  before 
I  could  get  into  the  show.  I  had  to  go 
back  to  the  hotel  to  keep  from  being 
ripped   apart." 

I  asked  Elvis  if  he  knew  how  so  many 
false  rumors  got  started  about  him. 

"I  know  about  some,"  he  said.  "For  in- 
stance, once  in  Kansas  City,  I  was  mobbed 
on  stage.  The  rumor  got  out  that  the 
drummer,  D.  J.  Fontana,  had  been  thrown 
into  the  orchestra  pit.  The  funny  part 
about  it  was  that  there  wasn't  even  an 
orchestra  pit  in  the  place.  Another  story 
had  me  shooting  my  mother  when  I  was 
young.    Isn't  that  just  crazy?" 

"How  about  the  capped  teeth  you  were 
supposed  to  have  had  made  in  Holly- 
wood?" I  said.  Real  quick,  Elvis  put  his 
hand  up  to  his  mouth  and  slipped  off  a 
small  round  object,  a  cap  for  one  of  his 
teeth.  He  said  that  he  had  worn  two  of 
them  originally,  but  he  dropped  one  on 
the  floor  in  a  cafe  in  downtown  Mem- 
phis. When  he  went  to  pick  it  up  some- 
one had  stepped  on  it  and  broken  it  to 
pieces.  He  said  that  they  were  very  ex- 
pensive and  he  would  have  to  have  an- 
other one  made. 

It  was  about  10: 15  now  and  we  were  sort 
of  getting  restless.  Elvis  told  us  to  follow 
him,  as  he  had  something  to  show  us.  So 
off  we  went  to  his  patio.  A  cute  little 
puppy  was  rxmning  around  and  June 
Juanico  picked  it  up  and  started  patting 
it.  Off  to  one  side  was  a  huge  cage  with 
a  little  monkey  in  it.  Elvis  played  with 
the  monkey.  Then  Elvis  said,  "Come  on 
out  in  the  back  yard.  I  have  something 
real  unusual  I  want  you  to  see."  Out  be- 
hind the  garage  Elvis  had  two  big  burros 
in  a  fenced-off  area.  He  said  his  manager, 
Colonel  Tom  Parker,  had  sent  them  from 
Texas  as  gifts.  Elvis  grabbed  June  and 
put  her  on  one  of  the  burros.  She  started 
to  ride  him,  but  he  began  to  buck.  Elvis 
ran  up  and  caught  her  just  before  she 
slid  off. 

We  asked  Elvis  about  the  cars.  So  he 
opened  his  garage.  There  was  a  1956 
Eldorado  Cadillac  convertible  and  a  1955 
Fleetwood  Cadillac.  Also  Elvis  pointed 
out  his  little  German  Messerschmitt  for- 
eign car,  which  he  said  he  hadn't  driven 
too  much  lately.  (When  Elvis  first  got 
the  little  foreign  car  he  took  me  riding 
in  it  down  Main  Street.  Boy,  did  we 
cause  a  commotion!)  Parked  out  in  the 
yard  was  his  Cadillac  limousine,  in  which 


the  band  sometimes  travels.  And  in  the 
drive  was  parked  a  1956  Lincoln  Conti- 
nental. I  asked  Elvis  if  it  was  okay  if  I 
sat  in  it.  He  said,  "Sure."  So  I  hopped 
in  and  started  looking  around,  feeling  like 
a  king.  Elvis  sort  of  laughed  and  said, 
"Yeah,  it  looks  a  mile  long  in  the  front, 
doesn't  it?" 

We  then  all  walked  over  and  inspected 
Elvis'  swimming  pool.  Elvis  took  us  back 
into  the  house  then,  into  his  den.  He 
has  just  installed  a  new  organ  in  there. 
He  likes  organ  music  very  much.  Elvis 
sat  down  at  the  organ  and  played  while 
everybody  else  sat  around.  We  started 
playing  a  little  quiz  game  of  guess  the 
melody.  Elvis  would  play  a  song  on  the 
organ  and  taking  turns  (I  acted  as  emcee) 
I  would  quiz  someone  as  to  the  name  of 
it.  If  they  answered  correctly,  they  sup- 
posedly won  twenty-five  dollars.  We  had 
a  lot  of  fun  doing  this.  I  asked  Elvis 
which  of  all  the  songs  he  had  recorded 
was  his  favorite.  He  quickly  answered, 
"Don't  Be  Cruel " 

We  continued  to  play  the  game  for  a 
while,  imtil  about  11:15,  and  then  Elvis 
suggested  that  we  break  it  up.  I  agreed, 
as  we  had  been  there  for  over  three  hours. 
As  we  were  leaving,  there  were  still  about 
forty  or  fifty  people  standing  outside  of 
Elvis'  house  hoping  to  get  a  look  at  him. 

Elvis  likes  gospel  singing  a  lot.  The 
other  night,  I  ran  into  him  down  at  a 
gospel  sing  at  the  auditorium  here  in 
Memphis.  The  Blackwood  Brothers  were 
sponsoring  the  sing  (they  are  featured  on 
my  station,  WMC)  and  Elvis  was  glued  to 
the  side  of  the  stage  watching  every  per- 
formance. He  said  that  he  would  like  to 
have  sung  a  couple  of  numbers  with 
them,  but  his  contract  wouldn't  permit  it. 

Of  course,  about  girls,  everybody's  fas- 
cinated about  who  it  might  be  that  Elvis 
Hkes  best.  June  Juanico,  the  girl  from 
Biloxi,  is  a  good  friend.  She's  spent  a 
lot  of  time  with  Elvis.  And  there's  an- 
other girl  named  Dotty  Harmony,  who's  a 
dancer  Elvis  met.  She  works  at  the  Sa- 
hara Hotel  in  Las  Vegas,  and  Elvis  met 
her  when  he  was  on  the  West  Coast,  and 
liked  her.  He  asked  his  mother  to  invite 
her  to  Memphis  during  the  holidays  at 
the  end  of  last  year,  and  she  spent  a  few 
days  here.  And  there's  Barbara  Heam, 
his  girl  in  Memphis. 

About  Barbara,  it  just  so  happens  that 
I  was  the  one  who  introduced  Elvis  to  her. 
She  had  dropped  by  Dewey  Phillips'  show 
one  night  when  I  was  there  chatting  with 
Dewey.  She  does  modeling  for  WMCT. 
One  night  I  had  a  date  with  Barbara  and 
we  drove  down  to  see  Dewey.  While  we 
were  sitting  there,  Elvis  walked  in  and 
joined  the  party.  She  was  just  a  regular 
friend  to  me,  and  I  was  glad  that  she  and 
Elvis  met.  After  that,  they  started  dat- 
ing. A  couple  of  weeks  ago,  I  had  a  sa- 
lute to  Elvis  on  my  radio  show  and  I 
interviewed  Barbara.  We  taped  the  in- 
terview in  advance,  so  she  got  to  hear 
herself  on  the  air  and  she  got  a  big  kick 
out  of  it.    She  is  a  real  sweet  girl. 

And  so  that  brings  me  up  to  date  on 
Elvis  Presley,  the  fellow  with  whom  I 
went  to  school.  He  is  now  the  most 
popular  thing  in  show  business.  It  seems 
now  as  if  Elvis  will  be  going  into  the 
Army  not  too  long  from  now.  But  we're 
all  sure  that  he'll  continue  successfully  on 
his   career   after   his   service   is   over. 

The  way  we  all  feel  here  is  that,  in 
spite  of  all  the  publicity  about  him,  Elvis — 
when  he's  with  people  he's  always  known 
— is  just  about  the  way  he  always  was. 
And  all  his  friends  here  in  Memphis  re- 
spect and  like  him  and  wish  him  a  great 
future. 


BUY  U.  S.  SAVINGS  BONDS  AND  INVEST  IN  YOUR  FUTURE 


ENJOY  A  PERMANENT, 
KBfG  PAY  CAREER  as  a 

sApractical 

NURSE 


EARN  AT  HOME  WHILE  LEARNING 

FREE  SAMPLE  LESSON  shows  how  easily  you  can 
become  a  professionally  trained  practical  nurse 
by  home  study  in  a  short  time.  NO  HIGH 
SCHOOL  NEEDED.    No  age  jimit. 

FOR  FREE  LESSON  and 
FULL  INFORMATION 

I 

I   Post  Graduate  Hospital 
I    School  of  Nursing 
I   9D47  Auditorium  BIdg. 
!  Chicago  5,   Illinois 


I   Name... 
I   Address. 


City. 


.State I 


♦100.'"' 


"  SONGWRITERS 

TO  THE  WaiTER  OF  8EST  SONG  SELECTED   EACH  MONTH 


Send  songs,  poems.Reeord: 

■A-  HOLLYWOOD  TUNESMITHS 


ipies  furnished. Lei  us  help  you  be  a  success. 

l&OSVitU  Del  Mar,  Dept  0, 
^  Hollywosil  28.  Califeraia 


SONG  POEMS  WANTED 

To  be  set  to  music.   Send  your  poems  today  for  free 
examination  I 

J.  CHAS.  McNEIL   (A.  B.  Master  of  Music) 
510-MG   So.  Alexandria  Los  Angeles  5,   Calif. 


'  rO££       MATERNITY 
rilCC  STYLE  CATALOG 


BIG  96-paee  illustrated  catalog.  Hun- 
dreds of  exclusive,  econoiny- priced 
Maternity  Fashions.  FREE  GIFT  CHECK 
with  catalog  ffives  EXTRA  discounts  on 
first  order,  world's  largest  selections  — 
Maternity  dresses,  soits,  separates,  sports- 
wear, girdles,  bras,  lingerie.  SI. 00  to  $20.00. 
Write  TODAY-CRAWFORD'S 
Dept.  35,     8015  Wornall  Rd.,  Kansas  City  14,  Missouri 


1} 


ENLARGEMENT 

o/youf  Fauofffe  Photo 


% 


FROMFAMOUS  HOLLYWOOD  F1LMSTUDI0S 

Just  to  get  acquainted,  we  will 
make  you  a  beautiful  5x7  black 
and  white  enlargement  of  any 
snapshot,  photo  or  negative.  Also 
be  sure  to  include  color  of  hair, 
eyes  and  clothing,  and  get  our 
Air  Mail  Bargain  Offer  for  hav- 
ing your  enlargement  beautifully 
hand-colored  in  oil  and  mounted 
in  a  handsome  frame.  Limit  2  to  a  customer. 
Please  enclose  10c  to  cover  cost  of  handling  and 
maUlng  each  enlargement.  Original  returned.  We 
imXl  pay  $100.00  for  children's  or  adults  pictures 
used  in  our  advertising.  Act  NOW! 

Offer  limited   to  U.S.A.   only 

HOLLYWOOD  FILM  STUDIOS,  Dept.  F-348 

7021   Santa   Monica   Blvd.,   Hollywood   38,    Calif. 


jntuw 


'  four 


NOTHING  TO  WEAR? 

Send  10<^  today  (no 
stamps)  for  big  new 
catalog  of  stunning 
Hollywood  styles. 
Dresses,  blouses, 
separates,  skirts, 
dazzling  lingerie, 
furs,  coats,  suits, 
olay-clotiies,  slacks. 
Men  can't  resist  gals 
who  wear  our  glamorous 
creations.  So  don't  be  a 
miser- 
Send  25^  for  one  year 
subscription 


FREDERICK'S  of  Hollywood 


Dept.  9684, 1430  N.Cahuenga  Blvd.,  Hollywood  28,  Calif. 


T 
V 
R 

89 


NEW  DESIGBfS  FOR  LIVIIVG 


866 — Daughter  looks  so  pretty  in  this 
whirl-skirted  pinafore,  with  colorful 
embroidery  to  trim  the  scoop  neck. 
Child's  Sizes  2,  4,  6,  8  included.  Pat- 
tern, transfer,  directions.  25<i5 

732 — Cinch  to  sew  this  pretty  wrap- 
halter.  No  embroidery — iron-on  flow- 
er trim  in  combination  of  pink,  blue, 
green.  Tissue  pattern,  washable  color 
transfers.  Sizes  Small  (10,  12)  ;  Medi- 
um (14,  16);  Large  (18,  20).  State 
size.  25^ 

626 — One  for  every  day  of  the  week. 
Happy-go-lucky  little  bluebirds  to  em- 
broider on  your  kitchen  towels.  Trans- 
fer of  7  washable  motifs  about  6x7 
inches  each.  25^ 

589 — Lovely,  lacy  pineapple  design 
forms  this  unusual  "butterfly"  set  to 
protect  and  prettify  chairs  or  buffet. 
Easy-to-memorize    crochet.    25^ 

7212 — Baby  snuggles  quickly  to  sleep 
'neath  this  protective  cover — with  lit- 
tle animals  for  company  in  dream- 
land. Embroidery  transfers,  diagrams, 
directions  for  quilt  36  x  42  inches.  25^ 

7062 — Your  new  quilt  is  that  fine  old 
design — Joseph's  Coat!  The  quilt  is 
spectacular  in  many-colored  scraps. 
Just  2  patches.  Pattern,  directions.  25^ 

599 — Crochet  this  graceful  doily  in 
leaf  design — it's  easy  and  will  look  so 
lovely  in  your  home.  Directions  for 
crochet  doily  15  x  32  inches  in  No.  30 
cotton,  smaller  in  No.  50  cotton; 
larger  in  string.  25^ 


IRON-ON 
COLOR 

SIZES 
S— 10— 12 
M— 14— 16 
L— 18-20 


90 


Send  twenty-five  cents  (m  coin)  for  cacfe  pattern  to:  TV  Radio  Mirror,  Needlecraft  Service,  P.O.  Box  137,  Old  Chelsea  Station, 
New  York  11,  New  York.  Add  five  cents  for  each  pattern  for  first-class  mailing.  Send  an  additional  25(J  for  Needlecraft  Catalog. 


^^.,..K- 


odess 


That  Ivory  IjOoIs.-  so  clear. . .  so  fiestL 

...  so  easily  yours    'w. 


This  winsome  miss  is  riding  high  with  That  Ivory  Look. 
And  through  the  magic  of  mildness,  regular  Ivory  care  can 
make  it  your  look,  too.  You  see,  the  milder  your  soap,  the  prettier  your 

skin — and  Ivory  has  a  mildness  all  its  own.  It  leaves  your  skin  so 

delightfully  fresh  and  clear — so  winning  with  That  Ivory  Look! 

9  9  ^Aio%  pure...  it  floats 

® 


Wash  your  face  regularly  with 
pure,  mild  Ivory.  Mild  enough 
for  baby's  skin — so  right  for 
your  complexion. 


IVLORE    DOCTORS   ATTVISE    IVOR.Y   THAN   ANY   OTHER    SOAP 


MADIO       ZZ 

-_  ^^..^ ,^  ^^  - AWARDS 

MIRROR    ISSUE 

ADIO  MIRROR  •  Your  Favorite  Stars  and  Shows  by  Nationwide  Vote 

AY  •  25^ 


»ERRY  COMO 


Ipnipqp 


^^s 


IVORY 


Like 
getting 
one  free! 


11 '       &eU/j/ut&  Q^c 

IVORY 


i.     J 


f 


/ 


4^  for  the  price  of  3 

NOW-  TIED  IN  ONE  BEAUTY  BUNDLE 


4  cakes  of  pure,  mild  Personal  Size  Ivory  cost  about 

the  same  as  3  cakes  of  other  leading  toilet  soaps! 

Any  way  you  look  at  it— Personal  Size  Ivory's  new  Beauty  Bundle 
is  a  beauty  of  a  buy.  Now— 4  cakes  all  tied  in  one  neat  bundle- 
so  handy  ...  so  thrifty.  And  how  those  dainty  cakes  of  mildness  pamper 
your  skin!  You  see,  the  milder  the  beauty  soap,  the  prettier  your 
skin,  and  Ivory  Soap  is  mild  enough  for  a  baby's  skin.  So  for  that  fresh, 
radiant  look,  That  Ivory  Look,  get  your  Beauty  Bundle  now. 


99  100%    PURE    ..IT    FLOATS 


THE  BEAUTY  BUNDLE  IS  YOUR  BEST  BEAUTY  BUY 


^z^^ 


tcdO^ 


goj^iJstmv  / 


Molly's  remark  was  intended  as  a  bitter  little  joke. 
She'd  had  a  miserable  time  at  the  dance  .  .  .  even 
the  boy  she  invited  was  neglectful.  Molly  had  no 
way  of  knowing  that  what  she  blurred  out  in  jest 
was  actually  the  truth.  There's  no  thermometer 
that  registers  when  your  breath  offends  . . .  that's 
why  it  pays  to  use  Listerine  regularly. 

The  most  common  cause  of  bod  breath  is  germs 
. . .  Listerine  kills  germs  by  millions 

Germs — which  ferment  the  proteins  always  pres- 
ent in  your  mouth — are  the  most  common  cause 


of  bad  breath.  The  more  you  reduce  these  germs, 
the  longer  your  breath  stays  sweeter.  Listerine 
kills  germs  on  contact ...  by  millions. 

Tooth  paste  can't  kill  germs 
the  way  Listerine  does 

Tooth  paste  can't  kill  germs  the  way  Listerine 
does,  because  no  tooth  paste  is  antiseptic. 
Listerine  IS  antiseptic.  That's  why  Listerine  stops 
bad  breath  four  times  better  than  tooth  paste. 
Gargle  Listerine  Antiseptic  full- strength  every 
morning,  every  night,  before  every  date! 


LISTERINE    ANTISEPTIC 
...  stops  bad  breath  4-  times  better  than  tooth  paste 


-v 


^^,-<«<'**^ 


Millions 
of  women 
can  reassure 
you 


Millions  of  women  have 
used  billions  and  billions 
and  billions  of  Tampax 
since  the  day  it  was  first 
invented  by  a  doctor — 
over  twenty  years  ago. 

For  every  one  of  these 
women  there  was  a  "first 
time."  Many  may  have 
shared  your  doubts  about 
the  product;  many  may 
have  thought  Tampax® 
internal  sanitary  protec- 
tion would  be  difficult  to 
use. 

Yet  really  the  most  de- 
lightful discovery  to  be 
made  about  Tampax  is 
its  simplicity.  Inserting, 
changing,  disposing  take 
only  seconds.  Once  you've 
passed  that  hurdle,  you 
can  relax  and  enjoy  all 
the  many,  many  advan- 
tages of  Tampax. 

It's  invisible  in  place.  Un- 
felt  in  place.  So  made  that 
the  wearer's  hands  need 
not  touch  it  at  any  time. 
It  prevents  odor.  Prevents 
chafing  and  irritation. 

It's  convenient  to  carry, 
unembarrassing  to  buy 
(on  display  wherever 
drug  products  are  sold)  — 
and  it  comes  in  a  choice 
of  3  absorbencies  (Regu- 
lar, Super,  Junior)  to  suit 
your  individual  needs. 

Why  deprive  yourself  of 
a  product  that  so  many 
women  use,  so  many  doc- 
tors approve  of?  Tampax 
is  the  better  way!  Try  it 
and  see!  Tampax  Incor- 
porated, Palmer,  Mass. 


TV 


RADIO 
MIRROR 


MAY,  1957 


VOL.  AT,  NO.  6 


Ann  Higginbotham,  Editorial  Director 
Ann  Mosher,  Editor  Jack  Zasorin,  Art  Director 

Teresa  Buxton,  Managing  Editor  Frances  Maly,  Associate  Art  Director 

Claire  Safran,  Associate  Editor  Joan  Clarke,  Art  Assistant 

Dick  Sheppard,  Assistant  Editor  Bud  Goode,  West  Coast  Editor 


PEOPLE  ON  THE  AIR 

Outdoor  Man   ( Roy  Rogers ) 6 

What's  New  From  Coast  to  Coast by  Peter  Abbott      8 

Command  Performance  (Red  Skelton) by  Maxine  Arnold  10 

Voice  of  History    ( Lowell  Thomas ) 14 

He  Couldn't  Say  "No"    (Douglas  Edwards) 15 

Theater  of  the  Mind    (CBS  Radio    Workshop) 16 

Circle  Without  End   (Warrea  Hull) ; . . . .  17 

Everybody  Loves  Dinah   Shore 18 

Crazy  Like  a  Fox   (Mitch  Miller) 19 

Saturday's  Children   {No  School  Today) 20 

Mickey  the  Magnificent  (Mickey  Mouse  Club) 21 

How  About  That!    (Mel  Allen) 22 

Fifty  Million  People  Can't  Be  Wrong  (Ed  Sullivan)  by  Gregory  Merwin  32 

The  Man  Who  Really  Won  (Hal  March) by  Ed  Meyerson  40 

A  Crown  for  the  Kingfish   (Freeman  Gosden) by  Dee  Phillips  42 

Humor  With  a  Heart  (Fran  Allison) by  Helen  Bolstad  43 

The  Great  Garry  Moore  Mystery by  Mary  Temple  44 

It's  Love,  Not  Luck  (Ozzie  and  Harriet  Nelson) by  Gordon  Budge  46 

Happy  Birthday,  Robert  Q.  Lewis by  Gladys  Hall  48 

Call  It  Faith  (Art  Linkletter) by  Dora  Albert  50 

Matinee  Idol   (John  Conte) 52 

Forever  "The  Greatest"  (Jackie  Gleason) by  Frances  Kish  54 

Just  Having  Fun   (Perry  Como) by  Alice  Francis  56 

Loretta  Young by  Bud  Goode  58 

Lux  Video  Theater 60 

They  Knew  What  You  Wanted  (Bob  Crosby) by  Eunice  Field  62 

Brave  New  World  (Jeannie  Carson) 64 

Wild  Old  West  (William  Conrad) 65 

The  Romance  Of  Helen  Trent 66 

Love  Of  Children  (Sandy  Becker) by  Francesca  Williams  68 

Most  Happy  Season  ( Gale  Storm ) 70 

FEATURES  IN  FULL  COLOR 

TV  Radio  Mirror  Award  Winners,  1956-57 27 

Arthur  Godfrey  and  His  Star  Wagon  (The  McGuire  Sisters, 

Pat  Boone) by  Martin  Cohen  34 

"Champagne  Music"   (Lawrence  Welk) by  Fredda  Balling  38 

YOUR  SPECIAL  SERVICES 

Movies    on    TV 3 

Information    Booth 4 

Test  Your  TV- Radio  I.Q.:  Crossword  Puzzle by  Marion  Weaver  13 

New  Designs  for  Living  (needlecraft  and  transfer  patterns) 23 

TV  Radio  Mirror  Goes  to  the  Movies by  Janet  Graves  24 

Turnin'  the  Tables 26B 

New  Patterns  for  You   (smart  wardrobe  suggestions) 94 

Cover  Portrait  of  Pat  Boone  by  Frank  Powolny,  courtesy  of  20th  Century- 
Fox,  for  whom  Pat  will  soon  be  seen  in  "Bernardine" 


BUY     YOUR     JUNE    ISSUE     EARLY 


ON    SALE     MAY     7 


«tD  PUBLISHED       MONTHLY       by       Macfadden 

*\V*  *       Publications,  Inc.,  New  York,  N.  Y. 

o  /^^m\'^>  executive,    advertising    and    EDI- 

^"   ■  ^\  oTORIAL      OFFICES      at     205      East     42nd 
''     Street,    New   York.    N.    Y.    Editorial   Branch 
-Office:    6269    Selma    Ave.,    Hollywood    28, 
'  Calif.     Irving     S.     Manheiiner,     President; 
Lee      Andrews,      Vice      President:       Meyer 
Ot*^        Dworkin,   Secretary  and  Treasurer.  Adver- 
tising offices   also  in   Chicago,    221   North 
LaSalle  Street,  and  San  Francisco. 

SUBSCRIPTION  RATES:  $3.00  one  year,  U.  S.  and 
Possessions  and  Canada,  $5.00  per  year  for  all  other 
countries. 

CHANGE  OF  ADDRESS:  6  weeks'  notice  essential. 
When  possible,  please  furnish  stencil  impression  ad- 
dress from  a  recent  issue.  Address  changes  can  be 
made  only  if  you  send  us  your  old,  as  well  as  your 
new  address.  Write  to  TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East 
42nd  Street,  New  York  17.  N.  Y. 
MANUSCRIPTS:  All  manuscripts  will  be  carefully  con- 


sidered, but  publisher  cannot  he  responsible  for  loss  or 
damage.  It  is  advisable  to  keep  a  duplicate  copy  for 
your  records.  Only  those  manuscripts  accompanied  by 
stamped,  self-addressed  return  envelopes  or  with  sufH- 
clent  return  postage  will  be  returned. 
FOREIGN  editions  handled  through  Macfadden  Publi- 
cations International  Corp.,  205  East  42nd  Street,  New 
York  17.  N.  Y.  Irving  S.  Manheimer,  President;  Doug- 
las Lockhart,   Vice  President. 

RE-ENTERED  as  Second  Class  Matter,  June  28.  1954, 
at  the  Post  Office  at  New  York,  N.  Y..  under  the  Act  of 
March  3.  1879.  Authorized  as  Second  Class  mail,  P.O. 
Dept.,  Ottawa.  Ont.,  Canada.  Copyright  1957  by  Mac- 
fadden Publications.  Inc.  All  rights  reserved  under  In- 
ternational Copyright  Convention.  All  rights  reserved 
under  Pan-American  Copyright  Convention,  Todos  de- 
rechop  reservados  segun  la  Convencion  Pan-Americana 
de  Propiedad  Literaria  y  Artistica.  Title  trademark 
registered  in  U.S.  Patent  Office.  Printed  in  U,  S.  A. 
by  Art  Color  Printing  Company. 

Member  of  the  TRUE  STORY  Women's  Group 


MOVIES  ON  TV 


Showing  this  month 


BRINGING  UP  BABY  (RKO) :  Off  on 
a  farcical  fling,  -with  heiress  Katharine 
Hepburn  chasing  shy  scientist  Gary  Grant. 
A  stray  leopard  (and  Katie's  pretty  legs) 
add  to  the  happy  confusion. 

BROWNING  VERSION,  THE  (Rank, 
U-I)  :  Quiet,  penetrating  study  of  life  in 
a  British  boys'  school.  Fine  acting  by 
Michael  Redgrave  as  a  pathetic,  stuffy 
teacher,  betrayed  by  wife  Jean  Kent. 

CANADIAN  PACIFIC  (20th)  :  Forthright 
Western,  actionful  if  not  very  thoughtful. 
Randolph  Scott  spearheads  a  railroad- 
building  job,  encouraged  by  Nancy  Olson, 
opposed  by  Victor  Jory. 

COMMANDOS     STRIKE    AT    DAWN 

(Columbia)  :  Paul  Muni's  forceful  per- 
formance highlights  the  rugged  story  of 
Norse  patriots'  aid  in  a  British  attack  on 
Nazi-occupied  Norway. 

CONQUEST  OF  EVEREST  (U.A.): 
Splendid  British  documentary  on  the  tri- 
umph of  Hillary  and  Tensing,  showing  the 
planning  and  teamwork  leading  to  the 
mighty  peak. 

DEADLINE  AT  DAWN  (RKO):  Modest 
but  effective  suspense  tale,  involving  dance 
hostess  Susan  Hayward  in  the  danger  that 
threatens  sailor  Bill  Williams. 

DRUMS     ALONG     THE     MOHAWK 

(20th)  :  Realistic,  exciting  saga  of  pioneers 
fighting  Indians  in  upstate  New  York,  dur- 
ing the  Revolution.  Henry  Fonda,  Glaud- 
ette  Colbert  are  a  courageous  farm  couple. 

GUNGA  DIN  (RKO):  Spectacular  adven- 
tures in  British-ruled  19th  Century  India. 
Gary  Grant,  Doug  Fairbanks,  Jr.,  Victor 
McLaglen  are  comrades-in-arms:  Sam 
Jaffe,  the  water-carrier  saluted  by  Kipling. 

I'LL  BE  SEEING  YOU  (U.A.) :  Affect- 
ing study  of  a  GI's  recovery  from  combat 
fatigue.  Vet  Joseph  Gotten  finds  healing 
through  Yuletide  friendship  with  parolee 
Ginger  Rogers. 

MR.  AND  MRS.  SMITH  (RKO) :  Rob- 
ert Montgomery  and  the  late  Carole  Lom- 
bard clown  engagingly  as  bickering  hus- 
band and  wife  who  find  their  marriage 
wasn't  legal.  Director  Hitchcock  proves 
adept  at  comedy. 

PENNY  SERENADE  (Columbia):  Hon- 
estly sentimental,  beautifully  done  story  of 
a  marriage.  To  a  series  of  "our  songs," 
Gary  Grant  and  Irene  Dunne  court,  marry, 
adopt  and  lose  a  child,  courageously  face 
the  future  together. 

STORY  OF  VERNON  AND  IRENE 
CASTLE,  THE  (RKO)  :  More  serious  than 
most  of  the  Astaire-Rogers  films,  this  nos- 
talgic musical  casts  Fred  and  Ginger  as 
the  beloved  dance  team  of  World  War  I 
days. 

SUSPICION  (RKO)  :  Alfred  Hitchcock  is 
in  top  form  with  this  suave  tale  of  sus- 
pense. An  innocent  bride,  Joan  Fontaine 
suspects  that  debonair  Gary  Grant  has  done 
murder — -and  plans  to  kill  her. 


New  sunshine  yellow 

shampoo 

puts  sunny  sparkle  in  hair! 


ihampoo 

plus  egg 


leaves  hair  silkier  .  .  . 
softer  .  .  .  easier  to  manage 

Brunette?  Blonde?  Redhead? 
You'll  thrill  when  you  see  how  your 
hair  responds  to  the  conditioning 
benefits  of  new  shampoo  plus  egg  ! 
It's  just  what  your  hair  needs — for 
new  life  and  luster,  for  rich  silky 
softness.  You'll  love  the  "feel"  of 
your  hair — the  way  it  manages. 

That's  the  magic  conditioning  touch 
of  SHAMPOO  PLUS  EGG !  This  new 
kind  of  shampoo  cleans  cleaner, 
rinses  super  fast.  It's  the  one  reaUy 
different  shampoo  .  .  .  from  its  sun- 
shine yellow  color  to  the  lilting 
sunny  sparkle  it  puts  in  your  hair! 
Try  it  once,  you'll  use  it  always. 

Economical  29^,  59i,  $1. 


"5*   'Si 


Mo(/6e//ei/e  /iaj^s 
ever  etribdtf-^ssec/ 

by  PiivplesI^^ 


New!  Clearasil  Medication 

STARVES' 
PIMPLES 

SKIN-COLORED  .  .  .  hides  pimples  wliile  if  works. 

At  last !  Science  discovers  a  new-type  medi- 
cation especially  for  pimples,  that  really 
works.  In  skin  specialists'  tests  on  202 
patients,  9  out  of  every  10  cases  were 
completely  cleared  up  or  definitely  improved 
while  using  clearasil. 

CLEARASIL  WORKS  FAST 
TO  MAKE  PIMPLES  DISAPPEAR 


M-wi+i 


rr^ 


1 .  PENETRATES  PIMPLES  .  .  .  kera- 
tolytic  action  softens  and  dissolves 
affected  skin  tissue  .  .  .  permits 
medication  to  penetrate  down  into 
any  infected  area. 

2.  ISOLATES  PIMPLES  .  .  .  antiseptic 
action  of  this  new  type  medication 
stops  growth  of  bacteria  that  can 
cause  and  spread  pimples. 

3.  -STARVES'  PIMPLES  .  .  .  CLEAR- 
asil's  famous  dry-up  action 
'starves'  pimples  because  it  helps 
to  remove  the  oils  that  pimples 
'feed'  on. 

SKIN  CREAMS  CAN  'FEED'  PIMPLES 
CLEARASIL  'STARVES'  THEM 

Oil  in  pores  helps  pimples  grow  and  thrive.  So  oily 
skin  creams  can  actually  'feed'  pimples.  Only  an 
oil-absorbing  medication  .  . .  clearasil,  helps  dry  up 
this  oil,  'starves'  pimples. 

'FLOATS  OUT'  BLACKHEADS 

CLEARAsa's  penetrating  medical  action  softens  and 
loosens  blackheads  from  underneath,  so  they  'lloat 
out'  with  normal  washing.  So  why  suffer  the  misery 
of  pimples  or  blackheads  1  clearasil  is  guaranteed 
to  work  for  you,  as  in  doctors'  tests,  or  money  back. 
Only  69<  at  all  drug  counters  (economy  size  98^). 


INRORIVIATION 


On  His  Toes 

Could  you  please  give  me  some  informa- 
tion about  Tom  Hansen? 

L.  B.,  Trenton,  N.  J. 

The  pride  of  Watsonville,  California,  is 
a  debonair  gent  who  keeps  the  ladies' 
heads  in  a  whirl,  and  is  one  of  the  big 
reasons  for  the  continuing  high  popularity 
of  NBC-TV's  Your  Hit  Parade.  He's  dancer- 
choreographer  Tom  Hansen,  who  smilingly 
refers  to  himself  as  "the  veteran,"  which, 
from  point  of  fact  of  service  on  the  show, 
he  is.  Also,  it  was  during  a  wartime  stint 
for  Special  Services  that  Tom  and  his  fancy 
footwork  received  the  plaudits  that  en- 
couraged him  to  try  for  a  show-business 
career.  .  .  .  His  first  experience  was  gained 
in  ensemble  work  on  the  stage  of  New 
York's  Roxy  Theater.  The  day  before  its 
New  York  opening,  Tom  was  chosen  to 
join  the  cast  of  "Kiss  Me,  Kate."  Leaving 
the  show  in  1950,  he  teamed  with  Betty 
Ann  Grove  for  agile  terpsichore  sessions 
on  TV's  Stop  The  Music.  This  happy  pair- 
ing was  later  repeated  on  The  Big  Payoff. 
In  between,  there  were  choreography  and 
guest  spots  on  Celebrity  Time  and,  in  the 
fall  of  1951,  the  beginning  of  Tom's 
lengthy  service  on  Your  Hit  Parade.  .  .  . 
Tom's  busy  schedule  also  includes  choreog- 
raphy and  appearances  on  TV  spectaculars, 
guest  shots  on  other  shows,  and  various 
commercial  stints.  The  very  eligible  bache- 
lor lives  in  a  large,  modern  apartment  on 
Manhattan's  Upper  West  Side.  Also  pres- 
ent is  a  basset  hound  named  "Claude,"  so 
tagged  by  Gisele  MacKenzie,  and  once, 
briefly,  the  object  of  Snookie  Lanson's  at- 
tentions in  a  Hit  Parade  version  of  "Hound 
Dog."  Records  ("just  about  everything, 
with  strong  emphasis  on  show  albums") 
and  swimming  are  Tom's  major  hobbies. 
He  works  constantly  to  enlarge  his  talents 
—does  musical  stock  during  the  summers, 
is  presently  being  coached  in  acting,  and 
has  handled  dramatic  roles  on  Kraft  Thea- 
ter and  Robert  Montgomery  Presents.  He 
would  like  someday  to  do  movies. 


Largest-Selling  Pimple 
Medication  in  America  (including  Canada) 


Tom  Hansen 


George  Brent 


George  Did  It 

We  would  like  to  know  something  about ' 
George  Brent. 

The  Campbells,  Albuquerque,  N.  M. 

George  Brent,  whom  you  see  as  one  of 
the  three  rotating  leads  on  ABC-TV's  Wire 
Service,  has  lived  a  life  that  far  outdoes 
any  of  the  several  hundred  roles  he  has  ap- 
peared in  before  the  public.  Born  in  Shan- 
nonbridge,  Ireland,  George  was  sent  to 
America  at  age  eleven,  returned  after  high 
school  to  enter  the  National  University  at 
Dublin.  These  were  the  turbulent  days  of 
the  Irish  independence  movement,  and 
George  became  an  active  worker  for  the 
Republic's  cause.  .  .  .  After  graduation,  he 
obtained  work  at  Dublin's  famed  Abbey 
Theater,  but  the  British  were  soon  hot  on 
his  trail.  With  a  price  on  his  head,  the  ad- 
venturous young  Irishman  was  forced  to 
flee  the  country,  thus  setting  in  motion  a 
dizzying  chain  of  events  which  took  him  to 
sea,  to  the  diamond  fields  of  South  Africa, 
to  Canada,  and,  eventually,  the  U.  S.  After 
two  years  as  a  struggling  actor  in  New 
York,  he  gained  stock  experience  in  Den- 
ver and  on  tours  as  actor-manager  of  six 
separate  stock  companies.  He  found  his 
first  acclaim  on  Broadway  opposite  Alice 
Brady  in  "Love,  Honor  and  Betray,"  and 
in  Hollywood  opposite  Ruth  Chatterton  in 
"The  Rich  Are  Always  With  Us."  When  he 
was  hailed  as  a  "discovery"  after  perform- 
ing in  the  memorable  "Dark  Victory," 
George  Brent  laid  it  on  the  line:  "Discov- 
ery! I'm  an  old  bag  around  here — I've  been  ' 
in  Hollywood  for  eight  years."  On  his 
looks:  "I'm  no  Tyrone  Power  and  I  know 
it."  On  romance :  "Romance  rumors  are  all 
right  for  beginners  in  this  business,  but  for 
me,  this  romance  stuff  is  a  pain."  On  Hol- 
lywood marriage:  "A  thousand  to  one 
against  you — especially  where  both  parties 
are  pursuing  a  career."  On  young  "know- 
it-alls":  "They  call  it  a  'defense  mecha-  | 
nism,'  but  when  I  began  to  act,  we  weren't  ■ 
allowed  defense  mechanisms  or  any  other 
alibis.  We  behaved  ourselves  and  did  our 


i 


jobs,  or  got  kicked  out!"  ...  In  1947,  he 
wed  Janet  Michaels  and  acquired  spacious 
Royal  Oaks  Ranch  in  Hidden  Valley, 
where  the  Brents  now  raise  race  horses. 
Two  children,  Suzanne,  7,  and  Barry,  3 — 
plus  a  prize  Doberman  and  miniature 
French  poodle — complete  the  picture. 

Calling  All  Fans 

The  following  fan  clubs  invite  new  mem- 
bers. If  you  are  interested,  write  to  address 
given — not  to  TV  Radio  Mirror. 

Pat  Boone  Fan  Club,  c/o  Kathie  Coogan, 
2961  N.  58th  St.,  Milwaukee  10,  Wis. 

Dinah  Shore — George  Montgomery  Fan 
Club,  c/o  Barbara  Waggener,  R.R.  #2, 
Winchester,  111. 

Peter  Lind  Haye» — Mary  Healey  Fan 
Club,  c/o  Roslyn  Diamond.  8735  Bay 
Parkway,  Brooklyn  4,  N.  Y. 


TV  and  Your  Eyesight 

How  long  should  I  let  my  children  watch 
television  at  one  sitting? 

A.  S.,  Midland,  Mich. 

Many  parents  are  naturally  concerned 
about  the  effect  of  televiewing  on  young 
eyes.  Herewith,  some  suggestions  based  on 
considerable  research. 

1.  TV  should  never  be  watched  in  com- 
plete darkness.  Partial  illumination  from 
moderately-lit,  well-shaded  lamps  is  recom- 
mended. Your  light  should  be  diffused 
around  the  room,  so  that  the  child  never 
looks  from  darkness  into  bright  light. 

2.  Be  sure  that  your  lights  cause  no  re- 
flection on  the  TV  screen. 

3.  Proper  focus  is  essential.  A  child  who 
can  turn  on  a  set  may  also  be  taught  how 
to  focus  the  picture  correctly. 

4.  Children  should  never  be  allowed  to 
glue  themselves  to  the  set  approximately 
two  feet  from  the  picture.  The  relative 
strength  of  each  child's  eyes  will  determine 
proper  distance,  but  "not  too  close"  is  a 
safe  rule  of  thumb. 

5.  Comfortable  chairs  and  posture  are 
desirable,  since  "hunched  up"  positions 
affect  bodily  circulation,  including  that  to 
the  eyes. 

6.  The  importance  of  glancing  away 
from  the  set  every  few  minutes  should  be 
emphasized. 

7.  Watch  for  telltale  signs  of  eyestrain — 
including  excessive  blinking  and  irrita- 
bility. 


FOR  YOUR  INFORMATION— If  there's 
something  you  want  to  know  about  radio 
and  television,  write  to  Information  Booth, 
TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East  42nd  St.,  New 
York  17,  N.  Y.  We'll  answer,  if  we  can, 
provided  your  question  is  of  general  inter- 
est. Answers  will  appear  in  this  column — 
but  be  sure  to  attach  this  box  to  your 
letter,  and  specify  whether  your  question 
concerns  radio  or  TV. 


Are  you  ever  CXCltCCi, 


rushed  ?. . . 


That's  when  most  deodorants  fail 

but  new  MUM  Cream  keeps  working 


ANOTHER    FINE    PRODUCT 
OF    BRISTOL-MYERS 


You've  probably  noticed . . .  when  you're 
under  emotional  pressure,  your  perspiration 
glands  suddenly  get  more  active.  That's 
when  deodorants  which  depend  on  stopping 
perspiration  let  you  down,  and  odor  often 
starts. 

New  Mum®  Cream  works  a  completely  dif- 
ferent way.  It  is  the  only  leading  deodorant 
that  works  entirely  by  stopping  odor.  Mum 
keeps  on  ivorking  actively  to  stop  odor  24 
hours  a  day— no  matter  how  active  your  per- 
spiration glands  are.  No  wonder  Mum  is  so 
dependable.  Isn't  that  what  you  want? 


More  people  depend  on  MUM  than  on  any 

other  deodorant  ...it  works  when  others  fail 


PERIODIC    PAIN 

It's  downright  foolish  to  suffer  in 
silence  every  month.  Let  Midol's 
3-way  action  bring  you  complete 
relief  from  functional  menstrual 
distress.  Just  take  a  Midol  tablet 
with  a  glass  of  water .  .  .  that's 
all.  Midol  relieves  cramps,  eases 
headache  and  chases  the"blues." 

"WHATWOMEN  WANTTO   KNOW" 

a  24-page  book  explaining  menstruation  is 

I      yours,  FREE.   Write  Dept.  B-57,    Box  280, 

New  York  18,  N.  Y.  (Sent  in  plain  wrapper). 


OUTDOOR  MAN 


Roy  Rogers  likes  the  good  earth  and  all  God's  children 


FAVORITE  TV  WESTERN  STAR 

Life  on  their  Chatsworth  ranch  suits  Roy  and  Dale  Evans  down  to  the  ground. 


He's  come  a  long  way  since  his  first 
days  on  an  Ohio  riverboat  and 
his  childhood  on  the  small  farm  at 
Duck  Run.  But  Roy  Rogers  hasn't 
changed.  "Many  times,"  smiles  his 
wife,  Dale  Evans,  "I've  heard  him  say, 
'I'll  never  understand  how  I've  come 
so  far — there  are  guys  in  Hollywood 
with  more  looks  and  more  talent!' 
I'm  prejudiced,  so  I  don't  think  so. 
There  certainly  aren't  many  with 
more  heart.  His  is  big  and  warm  as 
an  oven — perhaps  because  he's  known 
what  it  is  to  be  bone-poor  himself." 

Raised  on  a  rocky  hillside  farm,  and 
in  harness  behind  the  old  mare  when 
he  was  seven,  Roy  knew  what  "strug- 
gle" meant  before  he  could  spell  it. 
His  father  worked  in  an  Ohio  shoe 
factory,  while  Roy,  his  mother  and 
three  sisters  worked  on  the  farm — 
raising  potatoes,  corn  and  apples. 
Roy's  still  fond  of  apples:  "You  can 
do  so  many  things  with  them  .  .  .  fry 
'em,  bake  'em,  stew  'em." 

When  he  was  ten,  Roy  began  call- 
ing square  dances — he  still  knows  a 
hundred  old  hill  songs.  If  you  catch 
him  singing  around  the  house,  chances 
are    it's   one    of   those    square-dance 


tunes  or  a  nostalgic  old-time  ballad. 

"Roy  is  sentimental  as  an  old  'hope 
chest,'  "  Dale  says.  "He  still  has  his 
first  guitar,  that  he  bought  for  twenty 
dollars  in  a  hock  shop.  He  also  has 
the  old  Dodge  touring  car  that  carried 
him  and  his  family  to  California.  The 
guitar  is  scratched  and  the  strings 
are  gone,  the  car's  barely  able  to 
stand  out  in  the  yard,  but  Roy 
wouldn't  part  with   either   of  them." 

He's  even  more  sentimental  about 
his  family.  "There  were  times  in  the 
past,"  Dale  recalls,  "when  we  were 
away  from  our  seven  children,  on 
tour,  and  they  grew  lonesome.  So, 
last  season,  we  took  them  with  us. 
Roy's  also  had  the  children  working 
with  us  on  TV,  to  help  keep  us  closer 
together. 

"Roy  spends  a  great  deal  of  time 
with  them.  He  can  take  on  all  seven, 
roughhousing  on  the  floor,  and  not 
come  up  puffing.  I've  never  seen  any- 
thing like  Roy  for  energy.  Out  coon 
hunting,  he  could  outwalk  an  Olym- 
pic champion.  On  the  other  hand,  he's 
just  as  long-winded  on  the  phone  as 
he  is  in  the  field!  I  don't  know  what 
they  talk  about,  but  he  has  some  old 


Dale  and  Roy  with  four  of  their  be- 
loved seven:  Morion  Fleming  and 
Cheryl  in  musical  mood,  Debbie  and 
Dodie  in  typical  "roughhouse"  romp. 


cronies  with  whom  he'll  chat  for  what 
seems  like  an  hour,  several  times  a 
week.  They're  the  only  ones  who  can 
make  him  sit  still  for  more  than  fif- 
teen minutes." 

When  he's  not  on  the  phone  or 
romping  with  the  children,  he's  work- 
ing on  a  car  or  sanding  down  his  small 
boat.  Roy  could  live  in  tennis  shoes 
or  gumsoled  loafers  (to  protect  the 
boat-deck  varnish).  A  real  outdoor 
man,  he  loves  fishing  and  boating. 
He's  often  said  that,  if  he  ever  retired, 
it  would  be  high  up  in  the  San  Ber- 
nardino Mountains  at  Big  Bear  Lake. 
He  likes  the  lake  and  mountains  .  .  . 
perhaps  because  they're  closer  to  God. 

Two  things  he's  sure  to  take  with 
him  on  his  road  tours:  His  Bible, 
which  he  reads  every  night — and  an 
accordion-like  plastic  folder  with  room 
for  a  dozen  snapshots.  "You  don't  have 
to  ask  him  how  the  family  is,"  Dale 
laughs.  "When  Roy's  on  the  road,  just 
say  hello — and  he  comes  back,  'Seen 
the  latest  pictures  of  the  kids?'  " 

Roy  Rogers  Show,  NBC-TV,  Sun.,  6:30  P.M. 
EST,  is  sponsored  by  Post  Cereals,  Maxwell 
House  Coffee,  Baker's  Instant  Chocolate  Mix. 


ENDS  DULL  DRY 
THIRSTY"  HAIR 


O 

A 


How  do  you  make  your  hair 
so  lustrous  and  shining? 


By  following  my 
hairdresser's  advice 
and  using  Lanolin 
Discovery.  It's  the 
greaseless  hairdressing  that 
replaces  natural 
beauty  oils. 


What's  the  differ- 
ence between 
Lanolin  Discovery 
and  other  hair- 
dressings? 

Ordinary 
hairdressings 
^  j    _^       ^        ''coat"  your  hair 
»  — make  it  oily — 

Lanolin  Discovery's  misty  fine  spray  is  absorbed 
into  every  hair  right  down  to  your  scalp. 

To  enhance  the  natural  color  of  your  hair— to  get  a  shimmery  satiny 
sheen  with  deep  fascinating  highlights,  just  spray  on  Lanolin  Discovery 
Hairdressing  and  brush  a  little.  In  just  seconds  you  get  the  same 
beautiful  results  as  brushing  your  hair  100  strokes  a  day. 


Unb&h 


THE  NEW  HAIRDRESSING  IN  SPRAY  FORM 

$1.25  and  $1.89 

both,  plus  lax 


Used  and  recommended  by  hading  beauticians.  Available  wherever  cosmetics  are  sold 


,„„,W>.ral"b,a..y  secret 

GLORIFY  THE 

Mutal  Color 

OF  YOUR  HAIR 


ONE  OF  THESE  PRODUCTS 
IS  JUST  RIGHT  FOR  YOU! 

GIVES  COLOR- HIGHLIGHTS 

AND   BEAUTIFUL   SHEEN 

Use  Nestle  Colorinse  after 

every  shampoo  to  accent 

your  natural  hair  color, 

add  glorious  new  lustre, 

rennove  dulling  soap  film, 

make  hair  softer,  silkier, 

easier  to  manage.  Colorinse 

quickly  rinses  in  —  easily  shampoos 

out'    12  glamorous  colors.  29(f,  50<f 


Jn'^ 


';^«^ 


COLORTINT 

ADDS  COLOR  THAT  LASTS 

THROUGH  3  SHAMPOOS 

Nestle  Cotortint  gives  rich, 

intense  all-over  color  but 

is  not  a  permanent  dye!    , 

It  intensifies  your  natural 

hair  color  OR — adds 

exciting  NEW  color. 

Lanolin-rich  Colortint 

also  blends-in  gray,  streaked  or  faded 

hair.    10    triple-strength    colors.    29s,    50^. 


%  ffujtic  COLOR  CREME  RINSE 

''      Colors  and  Conditions 

GRAY  and  WHITE  HAIR 

k|     Nestle  Color  Creme  Rinse 
adds  beautiful,  rich 
color  and  youthful  C 

brilliance  without  tinting        ^^^.         I 

or  dyeing!  It  banishes 

drabness  and  yellow         , 

streaks  and,  at  the 

same  time,  CONDITIONS 

your  hair— improves  its  texture,     '    , 

corrects  dryness.  6  lovely  colors.  29?,  Ibi. 

At   all    cosmetic   counters,   or   ask   your 
beautician  for  Professional  applications 


^         \4 

K^l 

WHAT'S  NEW  PROM 


By  PETER  ABBOTT 


Maestro  Lawrence  Welk  accepts  our 
gold  medal  Award  from  Lou  Crosby. 


S+ormy's  a   gal's   best  audience   as 
Betty  White  prepares  a  new  show. 


Stars  Tony  Perkins  and  Tab  Hunter 
visit  Peter  Potter  on  Juke  Box  Jury. 


The  Browns  have  their  cake — but  Jim 
may  soon  eat  it  under  a  new  name. 


Go,  Man,  Go:  The  radical  element  in  the 
Manhattan  Presley  Fan  Club  is  petition- 
ing their  idol  to  get  a  crew-cut.  Might 
keep  in  mind  that  yesterday's  "Presleys," 
Sinatra  and  Crosby,  are  now  baldish,  and 
that  brings  up  the  question,  "What  will 
Elvis  look  like  when  he's  bald?"  Close 
your  eyes  and  think  about  it.  .  .  .  And 
think  about  this  handsome  teen-age  cou- 
ple, the  new  singing  sensation  Tommy 
Sands  taking  Molly  Bee  to  the  m.ovies. 
They're  a  combination  of  opposites:  Mol- 
ly so  outgoing  and  Tommy  so  shy.  .  .  . 
Good  way  to  combine  business  with 
pleasure:  Jane  Wyman  makes  a  steady 
thing  of  Gale  Smith,  a  big  exec  for  one 
of  her  sponsors.  .  .  .  Buddies  Art  Link- 
letter  &  Bob  Cummings  take  off  for  three 
weeks  in  Australia.  Reason:  They've  in- 
vested in  a  new  process  for  growing  rice 
and  want  to  see  their  first  crop.  .  .  .  Sam 
Levenson,  back  with  the  entertaining 
Two  For  The  Money,  notes,  "There's  no 
personality  problem  in  marriage  when 
the  rocks  in  his  head  fit  the  holes  in 
hers."  .  .  .  The  Desilu  Studio  (Desi  & 
Lucy's)  preparing  new  half -hour  film 
series  with  Walter  Winchell  as  story-tell- 
ing host.  . '.  .  One  of  the  greatest  of  Duke 
Ellington's  collections  has  been  baked  by 
Victor  into  a  cookie  titled,  "In  a  Mellow- 
tone."  .  .  .  Denise  Lor,  pretty  canary  on 
Garry  Moore's  show,  has  the  nervous 
habit  of  checking  her  appearance  when 
she's  on  camera.  She's  always  sneaking 
glances  of  herself  on  the  TV  monitor.  So 
there  she  was  one  morning,  wearing  a 
lovely  off-the-shoulder  gown,  standing 
perfectly  still  and  singing,  when  her  eye 
flickered  toward  the  monitor.  She  near- 
ly fainted.  On  the  monitor  she  saw  her- 
self singing  in  shorts.  A  mischievous 
cameraman,  knowing  her  habit,  had  sub- 
stituted a  kinescope  of  a  previous  TV 
sh6w   when   she   wore   a   brief   costume. 

What's  for  Summer?  One  thing  that 
maybe  Mr.  Steve  Allen  didn't  count  on 
when  he  locked  horns  with  Mr.  Ed  Sulli- 
van is  that  Ed  has  worked  every  sum- 


COAST  TO  COAST 


*      -5 


Three  who  are  the  toast  of  hlollywood  town — Bob  Wogner,  Jeannie 
Carson  and  hlugh  O'Brian — visit  Ed  Sullivan's  "Little  Old  New  York." 


mer  for  eight  years  and  has  no  intention 
of  quitting.  Ed  made  many  friends  in  the 
early  years  of  TV  by  keeping  television 
profitable  and  lively  while  other  stars 
were  sunning.  And  Ed  intends  to  con- 
tinue this  practice.  Ed  loves  competi- 
tion. He  is  not  the  type  to  ever  rest  on 
his  laurels.  So  Steve,  if  he  is  going  to 
stay  in  there  pitching,  will  have  to  be  on 
hand  through  the  hot,  hot  summer.  .  .  . 
And  this  summer  several  big  advertisers 
will  try  out  new  programs  before  taking 
on  sponsorships  themselves.  Either  in 
defense  or  defiance,  Procter  &  Gamble, 
assisted  by  General  Foods  in  one  case, 
are  financing  their  own  shows.  This  is  not 
new  in  the  industry.  Actually,  the  term, 
"soap  operas,"  grew  out  of  the  soap  com- 
panies' creation  and  development  of  their 
own  radio  serials.  The  term  is  now  con- 
sidered derogatory  in  connotation — and 
has  been  changed  to  "daytime  drama." 
What  they  have  in  mind  at  the  moment 
are  three  half-hour  weekly  TV  shows. 
One  titled,  The  Whiting  Sisters,  stars  the 
sisters  of  the  same  name.  Another,  Meet 
McGraw,  has  Frank  Lovejoy  in  the  title 
role.  A  third  program  is  Date  With  The 
Angels,  starring  wonderful,  wonderful 
Betty  White.  Betty  was  recently  chosen 
"most  glamorous  business  woman  of  the 
year"  by  the  Hollywood  Business  and 
Professional  Woman's  club. 

Personal  Patter :  Dwayne  Hickman,  neph- 
ew on  Bob  Cummings  Show,  and  Cin- 
dy Lindt,  pretty  Big  Payoff  model,  are 
letter-writing.  Dwayne  is  hoping  to  do 
Manhattan  with  Cindy  on  his  next  trip 
East.  It  was  on  his  last  trip  that  he  met 
Cindy  but,  unfortunately,  he  met  her  on 
his  very  last  afternoon  in  New  York.  .  .  . 
Elinor  Donahue,  who  plays  the  teen- 
age daughter  in  Father  Knows  Best,  ex- 
pecting a  May  baby.  She's  married  to 
sound  technician  Dick  Smith.  .  .  .  Catch 
a  plane:  Johnnie  Ray  opens  at  the  Lon- 
don Palladium  April  15th.  .  .  .  For  Sau- 
ter-Finnegan  buffs,  a  new  album  with 
the  charming  title,  "Under  Analysis,"  and 
the  kick  is  that  the  boys  diagnose  great 
hits  such  as  "Star  Dust,"  "Rockin'  Chair," 


"I  Get  a  Kick  out  of  You."  This  is  an 
ear-awakening  dozen.  .  .  .  The  whole- 
sale firing  of  the  Hit  Parade  cast,  ef- 
fective June,  came  after  a  season  of 
persistent  rumors.  Gisele  MacKenzie, 
however,  had  given  her  notice  long  be- 
fore that  she  would  not  be  available  for 
another  year.  She's  got  a  Broadway  mu- 
sical lined  up  for  the  fall.  .  .  .  Robert  Q. 
Lewis  has  been  panting  to  do  a  movie 
for  years,  and  may  get  the  chance  this 
summer.  .  .  .  Hugh  O'Brian,  Bob  Wagner 
and  Jeannie  Carson,  who  live  and  work 
in  Hollywood,  met  for  the  first  time  in 
New  York  City  on  Ed  Sullivan's  show. 
Hugh  was  particularly  nervous  about 
singing  on  TV.  Counselled  lassie  Jean- 
nie, "A  lad  shouldn't  be  scared  with  such 
a  bonnie  frame  as  yours."  ...  A  news- 
gal,  interviewing  Bishop  Sheen,  sudden- 
ly sighed  and  said,  "That  beautiful  cape 
of  yours.  Bishop — I  was  just  thinking 
how  magnificent  it  would  look  over  my 
emerald  green  dress!"  "You  borrow  it," 
he  told  her  with  a  twinkle,  " — anytime." 
.  .  .  The  McGuire  Sisters  are  excited 
about  their  first  appearance  at  the  Co- 
coanut  Grove  next  month.  .  .  .  Noted 
cultural  advance:  Next  season  will  see 
the  debut  of  a  network  kiddie-quiz  show 
to  be  titled,  A  Penny  For  Your  Thought. 
This  will  be  an  all  time  low  in  cash  give- 
aways.  A  penny!!! 

Three  Blondes  &  Two  Brunettes :  The  gals 
sing  the  best  and  any  one  of  these  gals  is 
a  beautiful  bundle  of  excitement  on  or  off 
wax.  .  .  .  Dorothy  Collins,  take  her  first. 
A  vocalist  on  Hit  Parade,  she  must  sing 
whatever  is  on  the  best-seller  list,  and  so 
has  sung  everything — rock  'n'  roll,  ballads, 
polkas,  waltzes,  and  she  is  great.  But  for 
Coral's  "Songs  by  Dorothy  Collins,"  she 
sings  what  she  wants  in  a  relaxed,  know- 
ing way.  She's  a  swinging  sophisticate 
backed  not  by  Hubby  Raymond  Scott's 
big  band  but,  instead,  by  the  delightful 
jazz  trio  headed  by  guitarist  Barney  Kes- 
sel.  .  .  .  Two  other  blondes  having  their 
say  are  Decca's  Peggy  Lee  and  Jeri  South- 
ern. Peggy's  voice  is  lightly  smoky  in  an 
(Continued  on  page   13) 


don't  suffer 
a  moment 

longer  from 

HEARTBURN- 
ACID   INDIGESTION 


Get  TUMS  Ideal  Relief... 
People-tested^^  by  Grateful 
Mothers! 

While  carrying  baby,  you'll  find 
modern  tums  are  such  a  blessing! 
Now  those  acid  attacks  needn't 
cause  you  another  minute  of  dis- 
tress. Just  eat  one  or  two  tasty 
TXXMS.  They  quickly  dissolve  just 
right  to  get  to  the  stomach  fast 
. .  .  and  neutrahze  the  excess  acid 
that  causes  your  heartburn.  And 
TUMS  reUef  really  lasts!  TUMS 
scientific  formula  contains  no 
soda,  no  alkaUzers  . . .  nothing  to 
upset  your  digestion.  They're  safe, 
fast,  and  sure.  Used  by  millions 
of  grateful  mothers.  Carry  tums 
wherever  you  go! 


.SNVJ 


v^. 


Fi>5. 


■  FOR  THE  TUMMY 


STILL  ONLY    iOi  A    ROLL.  3-ROLL  PACK  2S< 


Pofnmand  Perfbrmahce 


10 


FAVORITE   TV   COMEDIAN 


Red  Skelton  tackles  his  greatest  role,  with 

God's  gift  of  laughter— and  the  prayers  of  ail  the  world 


Behind  the  make-up  and  "Freddie  the  Freeloader's"  tramp  cos- 
tume, there  are  tears  as  well  as  laughter.  But  Red  Skelton — 
the  man  who  "can  fall  the  hardest  and  fastest"  and  still  come 
up  smiling — fights  his   biggest  battle  with   courage  and   skill. 


I 


By  MAXINE  ARNOLD 

HE  BELIEVES  "The  Boss  Man"  put 
him  here  on  this  earth  for  one 
purpose — to  make  laughter.  This  is 
his  rehgion  and  this  is  his  hfe.  And 
this  is  what  is  sustaining  Red  Skel- 
ton today.  This  is  how  the  show  can 
go  on.  .  .  . 

And,  today,  all  the  laughter  Red 
has  made,  the  happiness  he's  spread, 
is  coming  back  to  him  in  an  hour 
when  he  needs  it  most  .  .  .  and  help- 
ing that  show  go  on.  Heartened  by 
thousands  of  letters,  wires  and  calls 
from  those  whose  hope  and  faith  so 
strengthen  Red's  own. 

The  lovable  Hoosier  redhead  who, 
from  childhood,  has  lived  to  make 
others  laugh  is  today  proving  him- 
self the  greatest  of  clowns  ...  in 
every  meaning  of  that  word.  The 
sign  on  the  door  of  his  rehearsal 
studio  at  CBS  Television  City  in 
Hollywood  tells  the  story  of  that 
performance  .  .  .  and  the  strain  of 
making  laughter  today.  "Closed  Set 
— Cast  And  Crew  Only,"  it  reads. 
Inside  the  studio,  however  well  you 
know  him — every  word  must  be 
weighed.  A  word  of  sympathy  or 
concern  can  turn  that  laughter  into 
tears. 

Tell  him,  "It's  a  funny  show.  Red," 
and  his  face  lights  up  like  a  kid's 
with  a  red  balloon.  But  what  you 
feel  in  your  heart — what  you  hope — 
what  you    (Continued   on  page   12) 

The  Red  Skelton  Show  is  seen  on  CBS-TV, 
lues.,  9:30  to  10  P.M.  EST,  sponsored 
alternately  by  Johnson's  Wax  and  Pet  Milk. 


Family  holiday  that  made  headlines:  Red  and  Georgia  (right),  their  children, 
Richard  and  Valentino,  and  Georgia's  sister,  Maxine  Davis,  boarding  the  plane 
which  turned  back  almost  before  it  left  for  Honolulu.  Richard  knows  no  fear, 
asked  the  stewardess  excitedly,   "Is  it  time  for  us  to   put  on   our   life   rafts?" 


11 


Command  Performance 


(Continued  from  page  11) 
pray — goes  unsaid.  Today  the  line  between 
comedy  and  tears  is  too  fine.  .  .  . 

He's  wearing  the  trusty  "lucky"  old 
brown  hat  that  shapes  into  so  many  of 
the  characters  you've  met.  He's  chewing 
(constantly)  his  familiar  cold  cigar.  Comb- 
ing that  thick,  elastic  red  hair  into  hilar- 
ious "do's."  And  making  laughter  is  his 
job.  He  falls  on  his  face.  He  pantomimes. 
He  ad  libs,  watching  the  faces  of  the  crew 
— sensitive  to  a  chuckle  or  even  a  smile. 
Building  the  laughter  as  he  goes  .  .  .  and 
warming  to  the  job  as  the  laughs  begin 
to  roll. 

"Leave  that  line  in — they  laughed,"  he 
says  to  the  director. 

"What  did  you  say.  Red?" 

"I  don't  know — but  leave  it  in — " 

And  so  the  show  goes  on.  .  .  . 

But  when  the  show  is  over,  when  the 
curtain  goes  down  and  the  studio  is 
emptied  and  all  the  laughter  is  gone, 
"Freddie  the  Freeloader"  takes  off  his  bat- 
tered hat  and  his  black  tramp  suit  and 
the  beard  and  the  clown  face  .  .  .  and 
Red  Skelton,  the  father,  goes  home.  Home 
to  another  performance  to  be  given — an- 
other and  still  tougher  show.  .  .  . 

Home  to  a  Uttle  boy.  Freckled,  thin, 
and  with  Red's  own  quick  grin.  Home 
to  make  laughter  for  Richard  Skelton 
during  the  long  treatment  for  leukemia. 
To  play  with  the  shiny  new  trains  that 
welcomed  Richard  home  from  the  hos- 
pital when  the  first  tests  were  made.  Be- 
ing careful  never  to  show  too  much  affec- 
tion, or  too  much  emotion,  or  too  much 
concern. 

And  playing  with  the  fabulous  new 
trains,  running  them  through  towns  and 
through  tunnels  and  against  a  backdrop 
of  city  lights,  a  father  watches  the  happy 
face  of  a  child  .  .  .  hangs  on  to  his  own 
faith  .  .  .  and  commits  every  look,  every 
word  and  every  little-boy  grin  to  heart 
and  memory. 

Red  and  little  Richard  are  the  busiest 
engineers  of  the  most  extensive  railway 
system  in  all  Bel  Air.  A  kingdom  of 
traveling  make-believe  to  delight  any 
nine-year-old,  with  its  exciting  maze  of 
tracks  that  thread  through  two  rooms  in 
the  Skelton  home.  Under  the  close  super- 
vision of  Red  and  his  lovely  wife  Georgia, 
a  carpenter  built  special  elevated  tracks 
that  slant  to  ground-level  in  Richard's 
room.  There  are  auxiliary  tracks  in  the 
sitting  room  between  Red's  and  Georgia's 
rooms,  with  tracks  criss-crossing  in  dizzy- 
ing patterns  on  all  sides. 

By  the  hour,  you'll  find  them  there 
together,  engrossed  in  the  operation— the 
big  redhead  and  the  small.  It's  an  all- 
important  project  when  Red  and  Richard 
get  into  the  pick-up  with  "Val-Richard 
Productions"  on  the  side,  and  go  shop- 
ping for  some  additional  equipment  for 
their  railway  lines.  Or,  on  Saturdays, 
you  may  find  Georgia,  Valentina,  Red  and 
Richard  down  on  the  beach  at  Malibu  .  .  . 
scouting  sandstone  to  decorate  the  little 
train  tracks. 

The    shiny    new    trains,    the     elevated 

track,    all   the   little   make-believe   towns, 

were  waiting  for  Richard  when  he  came 

home  from  U.C.L.A.  Medical  Center  after 

the    sad    diagnosis   had    been    made.     His 

parents  smiled  for  the  first  time  in  eight 

days,   seeing  an   excited   little   boy's   eyes 

light  up  when  they  took  him  upstairs  to 

show  him  his  "surprise."    Still  like  a  bad 

^    dream  to  them   was  another  night  when 

Y    they'd  driven  home  from  the  hospital  in 

n    a  state  of  shock  and  grief — unprepared  for 

what  they  had  heard.  .  .  . 

Richard  had  had  a  bad  cold  that  kept 
hanging  on.     He'd  lost  some  weight.  And 


there  was  a  stubborn  "cold  sore"  just  in- 
side his  nose  that  wouldn't  heal.  In  the 
course  of  a  general  check-up,  their  family 
physician  took  a  blood  count  and  sent  it 
out  to  the  University  of  California  School 
of  Medicine — where  there  are  three  lab- 
oratories that  deal  with  children's  blood 
diseases  alone. 

Hospital  authorities  asked  Red  and 
Georgia  to  bring  Richard  in  for  a  day, 
to  take  a  bone-marrow  test,  which  was  the 
first  intimation  they  had  that  anything 
serious  was  even  suspected.  And,  in  a 
matter  of  hours,  the  sad  results  were 
known.  The  Skeltons  were  told — as  kind- 
ly as  such  truths  can  be  told.  Richard 
remained  in  the  hospital  for  additional 
blood  tests. 

At  the  hospital,  every  precaution  was 
taken  to  keep  the  diagnosis  in  confidence. 
In  the  whole  department,  only  one  doctor, 
one  nurse  and  two  assistants  knew.  No 
description  of  the  case  was  ever  put  into 
writing,  no  directions  for  treatment. 

Then — either  through  human  error,  or 
a  breach  of  family  trust — a  television  com- 
mentator who  knew  them  broke  the  news 
to  the  world  .  .  .  and  to  Richard,  who  was 
watching  the  TV  show  with  other  chil- 
dren in  a  hospital  ward.  He  didn't  know 
what  the  dreaded  word  meant,  but  older 
children  with  him  explained — and,  even 
then,  he  couldn't  really  comprehend. 

Overnight,  a  story  which  belonged  right- 
fully to  three  people — a  father,  a  mother 
and  a  child  -was  shared  by  millions.  .  .  . 

During  Ine  weeks  and  months  to  come. 
Red  and  Georgia  Skelton  were  to  show 
the  world  a  rare  kind  of  courage.  Taking 
it  spiritually  and  intelligently  in  stride. 
Resuming  life  as  nearly  normally  as  pos- 
sible at  home.  And  during  the  first  few 
days,  when  the  shock  was  overwhelming, 
their  good  friend  of  many  years'  stand- 
ing, Father  Edward  J.  Carney,  flew  out 
from  Lawrence,  Massachusetts,  to  be  with 
them. 

The  priest,  a  strapping  Irishman,  six- 
feet-four  and  with  red  hair,  could  be 
Red's  brother — they're  that  much  alike. 
They  have  a  great  sense  of  understand- 
ing ..  .  and  Father  Carney  and  the  Skel- 
tons have  faced  tragedy  together  before. 
Enroute  from  Rome,  a  few  years  ago,  their 
plane  seemed  fated  to  crash  over  the 
highest  peak  of  the  Alps.  With  two  mo- 
tors   in    the    plane    gone    and    the    third 


Red   plays  Clem   Kaddidlehopper. 
At   home,    there's   a    harder   role. 


going.  Red  went  to  work  making  laughter 
for  the  twenty-four  children  of  all 
nationalities  aboard.  Father  Carney,  put- 
ting on  his  purple  ribbon  to  give  the  last 
rites  and  setting  up  an  imaginary  altar  in 
the  window  of  the  plane,  said,  "You  take 
care  of  your  department.  Red,  and  I'll 
take  care  of  mine."  He  was  praying — 
and  Red  was  pantomiming — when  the 
plane  miraculously  landed  safely  on  a  tiny 
air  strip  at  Lyon,  France. 

Now  their  two  departments  were  over- 
lapping again.  For  those  first  few  days, 
all  of  Red's  laughter  had  deserted  him. 
Still,  there  was  a  strange  sense  of  peace. 
And,  eventually,  the  laughter  would  come. 
If,  as  Red  and  Georgia  had  always  put 
it,  "The  Guy  Upstairs— The  Boss  Man—", 
still  had  a  job  for  him  to  do.  .  .  . 

A  job  that  had  been  Red's  since  he  was 
ten  years  old,  when — following  in  the 
baggy  pants  of  his  clown-father  (who'd 
somersaulted  to  his  death)  — Red  left  home 
to  make  his  way  .  .  .  and  to  make  laugh- 
ter. He  left  then  because  he  was  hungry. 
And  he  helped  his  Mom  out  with  the  rest 
of  the  brood.  His  big  dream?  To  become 
the  greatest  of  clowns.  He  worked  in  a 
circus,  one  of  many  clowns  tumbling  out 
of  the  hood  of  a  jalopy  on  a  circus  track. 
He  would  fall  in  sawdust  and  be  repaid  by 
all  the  smiling  faces  he  saw  as  he  picked 
himself  up  again.  He  worked  in  walka- 
thons,  burlesque,  vaudeville — taking  falls 
.  .  .  anything  for  a  laugh.  A  reviewer  in 
a  little  New  Jersey  paper  pegged  him  right 
then,  when  he  noted  the  "antics  of  a 
young  gentleman  named  Red  Skelton 
who  can  fall  the  hardest  and  the  fastest 
— and  then  get  up  someway  none  the 
worse  for  wear  and  tear"  .  .  . 

This  time,  it  was  to  take  Red  Skelton 
a  few  days  to  pick  himself  up  of?  the 
floor  .  .  .  and  he  would  be  helped  up 
by  thousands  of  unseen  hands.  .  .  . 

He  missed  one  show,  and  the  first  one 
after  that  was  the  toughest.  Facing  the 
sympathy  of  all  the  cast  and  crew,  too — and 
what  do  you  say?  Mickey  Rooney  played 
a  double  performance  .  .  .  one  for  the  TV 
audience — and  one  for  Red.  The  Mick,  a 
fair  clown  himseK,  was  always  around, 
gagging  it  up  .  .  .  picking  up  the  corners 
whenever  he  caught  Red  looking  sad. 
And,  when  he  saw  any  well-wishers  head- 
ing for  Red  to  offer  sympathy,  Mickey 
would  be  in  there  fast  with:  "Red,  what 
do  you  think  about  doing  such-and-such?" 
Any  excuse  to  take  him  away. 

But  there  was  unseen  support,  too, 
helping  Red  Skelton  through  that  show 
— and  the  many  more  to  come.  In  the 
form  of  the  thousands  of  letters  and  wires 
and  phone  calls,  and  the  faces  behind 
them.  They  were  there,  fortifying  Red's 
own  hope  and  faith  .  .  .  and  he  was 
playing  to  them. 

Leaving  the  stage  that  night.  Red  walked 
back  to  a  beautiful  girl  with  red  hair — to 
Richard's  mother — who  put  her  arms 
around  him,  saying,  "Honey,  it  was  so 
wonderful!"  The  two  of  them  drove  home 
alone  .  .  .  knowing,  with  full  heart,  they 
were  no  longer  alone. 

Twenty-five  thousand  letters  came  in 
the  first  avalanche,  but  this  was  only  the 
beginning.  From  every  corner  of  the 
land — and,  as  time's  gone  by,  from  across 
the  world — they  flood  the  Skelton's  Bel 
Air  home.  Red's  office,  "Skelton  Produc- 
tions," in  Westwood,  CBS  in  Hollywood 
and  in  New  York. 

Human  homey  letters  from  across  the 
nation,  from  all  walks  of  life.  From  a 
monastery  in  Louisiana,  a  farm  in  Kan- 
sas, a  tenement  in  Brooklyn,  and  a  mining 
camp  in  Colorado.  Letters  saying  how 
(Continued  on  page  89) 


What's  New 

(Continued    jrom.   page    9) 

assortment,  titled  "Dream  Street,"  that  in- 
cludes the  haunting  poetry  of  "My  Old 
Flame"  and  "Dancing  on  the  Ceiling." 
And  just  as  great  is  the  remarkable  Miss 
Southern.  Jeri  is  a  gal  endeared  to  jazz- 
men and  yet  her  virtue  is  a  beautiful  sim- 
plicity— no  tricks,  no  echo  chambers — just 
pure  music  on  the  line.  She  does  it  with 
things  hke  "When  Your  Heart's  on  Fire" 
and  "Someone  to  Watch  Over  Me."  .  .  .  On 
the  brunette  side  is  Steve  Allen's  Eydie 
Gorme  with  a  knock-out  album.  She 
mixes  'em  up  like  an  ace  pitcher,  running 
from  moody  ones  to  belters.  She  gets 
swinging  and  soars,  or  goes  to  the  other 
extreme  and  hugs  a  ballad  with  real  pas- 
sion. This  is  a  fine  showcase  and  it's  ABC- 
Paramount's  disc,  "Eydie  Gorme."  .  .  .  And 
last  there  is  an  item  by  M-G-M,  "Joni 
Sings  Victor  Young  &  Frank  Loesser." 
Young  is  songs  like  "Stella  by  Starlight" 
and  "I  Don't  Stand  a  Ghost  of  a  Chance." 
Loesser  is  "Slow  Boat  to  China"  and  "If  I 
Were  a  BeU."  And  Joni  is  to  the  song 
world  what  MM  is  to  the  movies.  The 
James  girl  puts  into  her  voice  what  Marilyn 
puts  into  her  walk.  And,  brother,  that's 
quite    enough. 

Iddy-Bits:  When  Pat  Boone  finishes  his 
movie,  he  flies  to  London  for  a  personal 
appearance.  .  .  .  Four  million  bucks  given 
away  on  top  TV  shows  so  far  this  season. 
.  .  .  Tab  Hunter,  whose  first  record  sold 
over  a  million,  recalls  that  he  was  so  dubi- 
ous about  singing  that  he  extracted  the 
promise  that  his  first  master  recording 
would  be  destroyed  if  he  didn't  like  it.  .  .  . 
Don't  know  whether  radio  is  here 
to  stay,  but  Heater  is.  Gabe  is  celebrat- 
ing his  25th  anniversary  on  the  air.  .  .  . 
Another  husband-wife  team  to  TV.  Joan 
Caulfield  and  producer-husband  Frank 
Ross  ready  to  roll  with  new  comedy  se- 
ries, Molly.  This  goes  to  NBC-TV  next 
season.  Marion  Lome,  character  actress 
who  wowed  the  nation  on  Mr.  Peepers, 
has  feature  role.  .  .  .  Bob  Hope  got  himself 
a  $10-million  deal  with  NBC  and  says  he 
needs  every  cent  of  it.  He  says  big  names 
make  big  ratings  and  big  names  cost  big 
money.  Lana  Turner  cost  him  in  the 
neighborhood  of  50-grand,  and  that's  a 
nice  neighborhood.  Hope  says  that  this 
season  he  has  been  losing  about  $30,000  per 
show.  His  show  cost  that  much  more  to 
produce  than  what  he  is  paid.  He  says, 
"Everything  costs  too  much — labor,  guest 
stars,  production,  even  me."  .  .  .  And  if 
your  husband  is  griping  about  his  income 
tax,  ask  him  how  he'd  like  to  pay  Pres- 
ley's. Elvis  grossed  $3-million  last  year — 
and  that  doesn't  count  the  Cadillacs.  In- 
cidentally, El  traded  in  two  of  his  Caddys 
for  Lincolns,  out  of  deference  to  friend 
Ed  Sullivan. 

A  Man  By  Any  Other  Name :  Movie,  TV 
and  recording  star  James  Brown  is  being 
pressured  about  a  name  change.  Henry 
Willson,  Hollywood  manager,  did  it  to  Tab 
Hunter  and  Rip  Torn,  and  thinks  a  name 
change  would  enhance  plain  Jim  Brown. 
The  idea  is  to  adopt  his  TV  moniker.  Rip 
Masters,  which  Jim  totes  on  Rin  Tin  Tin. 
Handsome  Jim,  who  made  his  movie  de- 
but in  "Going  My  Way"  and  has  waxed  a 
half-dozen  best  sellers  for  M-G-M  Rec- 
ords, is  deliberating  the  name  matter  at  the 
Sherman  Oaks  home  he  shares  with  his 
wife  and  daughters  Beverly,  15,  Carol,  12, 
and  Barbara,  11.  The  daughters  are  by 
his  first  marriage.  He  married  Betty 
Brown  just  eight  years  ago  and  brought 
the  girls  with  him.  Betty  recalls,  "The 
wedding  was  something.  Jim  was  making 
(Continued  on  page  24) 


By  MARION  WEAVER 


TEST  YOUR  TV-RADIO  |.Q. 


CROSSWORD    PUZZLE 


' 

2 

1 

3 

4 

1 

5 

6 

^" 

1 

a""" 

^^ 

1^^ 

11 

12 

13 

14 

15 

16^ 

17 

■" 

_pr 

^H20 

21 

22 

■I   ■ 

^ 

■ 

24 

25 

26 

T 

1 

34 

■ 

28 

29 

1 

30 

31 

1 

32 

■ 

40 

■ 

33 

■ 

1 

46 

35 

36 

1 

37 

38 

39 

41 

42 

■ 

51 

43 

44 

■ 

50 

45 

47 

48 

49 

■ 

■ 

■ 

53 

■ 

■ 

■ 

54 

■ 

■ 

52 

ACROSS 

I.  TV  early  bird 
5.  Trigger's   master 
8.   Recent  TV  opera,  "War 
and   Peace"  was  this 

12.  — -  Roberts,  TV  healer 

13.  —  Burrows 

14.  "Vamp"    of   silent    era: 
Theda  — 

15.  Chief    topic    of    Bishop 
Sheen 

17.  Army's  General  Bradley 

18.  Singer  Frankie  

19.  ""  eye  for  --  eye" 

20.  He  wrote    "The   Scarlet 
Letter"   (init. ) 

21.  Part  of  the  foot 

23.  She's  got  a  secret 

24.  They  have  it  on  Grand 
Ole  Opry 

28.  Young  —  Mo/one 

29.  365  days    (abbr.) 

30.  TV's  Champagne   Lady 

32.  —her  Knows  Besf 

33.  Nickname  for  sun 

34.  Cover  for  pot 

35.  TV  prize 


37.  Junior's  father 

41.  Otherwise  16. 

42.  Undesirable  or  offensive  19, 

43.  Gary  is  this  to  Bing  22, 

45.  "The  —  of  the  Affair"  25. 

46.  --  Adams  and  Eve  26. 

47.  Movie  studio  27, 

51.  TV's  The  Big  —off  28. 

52.  There     were     seven     of  31. 
them  32. 

53.  Students'   pet  34. 

54.  "The  —  Divorcee" 

35. 

DOWN  3^ 

1.  She  sings  the  top  hits 

2.  "—  You  V/ith  It?"  38. 

3.  "The  Vagabond  Lover"  39. 

4.  Director  of  "Baby  Doll" 

5.  Sadie  Thompson's  in  this  40. 
drama 

6.  Mitch  Miller  plays  it  44. 

7.  Japanese   coin                   ■  46. 

8.  Kind  of  wood  48. 

9.  "Mrs.  North"  49. 

10.  Persia  50. 

11.  Panelist   on   Life   Begins  51. 


Af  80 

Song,  "Just  A  " 

Motorists'  Club  (abbr.) 
Sheep  of  North  India 

Dots  and  

Jack   Benny's  announcer 

Tar  Heel  State    (abbr.) 

Make  Room  For  —dy 

Mr.  Ford  from  Tennessee 

Evergreen  trees 

Bing's      sportshirts     are 

this 

Dress   Designer  — 

Chapman 

Author   Van    Dine's   first 

initials 

He  "sees  it  now" 

Girl    in    "The    Last   Days 

of  Pompeii" 

Wife   of   Peter   Lind 

Hayes 

TV's  —I  Susanna 

Girl  in  Noah's  Ark 

Love  —  Life 

The  Right  —  Happiness 

Video 

"Ma  and  ~  Kettle" 


Answers  to  puzzle  on  page  86 


13 


Lowell  Thomas  doesn't  simply 
report  the  news — he  makes  it 


Arabia:  In  the  land  of  Lawrence,  Lowell  Thomas  visits  his  old  FAVORITE   RADIO   NEWS   COMMENTATOR 

friend,   Sherif  Hussein,   the  desert   chieftain   of  Wodi   Beihan.  Fifth  Award  for  Lowell,  who  won  our  very  first  poll, 


Egypt:   Lowell    guesses   that  the   Sphinx   is 
no  older  than  is  man's  quest  for  adventure. 


14 


India:  He  visits  the  Taj  Mahal,  a  "wonder" 
filmed  In  "Seven  Wonders  of  the  World." 


Voice  of  History 


IN  A  ROUGH  Colorado  gold-mining  camp,  a  doctor-schoolteacher 
put  his  young  son  through  a  strict  course  in  elocution. 
But  the  boy,  though  he  minded  his  vowels,  was  more  interested 
in  listening  spellbound  to  the  tales  of  the  gold-seekers, 
or  in  looking  bemused  at  the  vista  of  mountains  and  wondering 
what  lay  beyond  their  horizon.    Later,  when  the  boy  had 
found  that  beyond  the  mountains  lay  adventure,  it  was 
that  early  concern  with  clear  and  incisive  speech  which  enabled 
him  to  tell  his  story  to  the  world.   The  voice  of  Lowell  Thomas 
has  been  heard  by  more  of  his  fellow  mortals  than  any  other 
voice  in  history.  With  a  record  for  the  longest  run  of  any 
type  of  program,  his  news  broadcast  goes  into  its  twenty-seventh 
year  at  the  same  hour.    His  radio  career  began  thirty-one 
years  ago,  appropriately  enough  on  the  occasion  of  a  broadcast 
of  man's  first  flight  around  the  world,  for  which  he  was 
official  historian.    The  man  who  reports  the  news  also  makes 
news.    He  discovered  Lawrence  of  Arabia  and,  in  lectures, 
films  and  books,  broke  the  story  of  the  archeologist  who 
became  the  mysterious  sheik  of  the  desert.    With  his  son, 
Lowell,  Jr.,  he  crossed  the  Himalayas  to  visit  the  Forbidden 
City  of  Tibet  and  bring  to  light  the  story  of  the  real-life 
Shangri-La.    With  adventure  as  his  climate,  Lowell  finds  that 
deserts  and  mountains  are  not  the  only  places  for  discoveries. 
In  so  relatively  tame  a  place  as  a  laboratory,  he  "found" 
Cinerama  and  guided  the  cinema  process  to  vivid  production. 
Born  April  6,  1892,  Lowell  has  since  been  a  gold  miner, 
cowpuncher,  college  professor,  newspaper  and  newsreel  reporter, 
editor,  historian,  lecturer,  world  traveler,  and  author  of  more 
than  forty  books.    Daredevil  trails   at  three   large  ski 
developments  are  aptly  named  for  Lowell  Thomas,  who 
continues  to  schuss  down  them  and  who  is  the  man  responsible 
for  Arthur  Godfrey's  introduction  to  skiing.    "If  you  don't 
abuse  your  position,  you  have  an  opportunity  to  do  a  vast 
amount  of  good,"  Lowell  sums  up  his  career.  "If  you  do 
abuse  it,  you  soon  find  yourself  talking  to  yourself." 

Lowell  Thomas  And  The  News,  CBS  Radio,  M-F,  6:45  P.M.  EST,  is  sponsored 
by  United  Motors  Service,  Division  of  General  Motors,  for  Delco  Batteries. 


I 


FAVORITE  TV  NEWS  COMMENTATOR 

Showmanship  and  news  judgment  win  Doug  his  fourth  Award. 

Douglas  Edwards,  dean  of  TV  news  commenta- 
tors, is  glad  CBS  wouldnt  take  ^^o"  for  an  answer 


OPPORTUNITY  knocked  for  the  first  time  when  teen-age 
friends  invited  Douglas  Edwards,  then  just  turned 
fifteen,  to  join  their  Alabama  radio  station.  Then  opportunity 
knocked  again,  and  with  the  persistence  of  a  bill  collector. 
Well-established  as  a  CBS  Radio  newsman,  Doug  was  asked 
to  do  a  daily  telecast.   It  was  ten  years  ago,  and  video 
was  in  swaddling  clothes.  Doug  demurred.  CBS  insisted. 
Doug  continued  to  demur — and  CBS  rewrote  his   contract. 
Still,  as  insurance  against  the  unknown  medium,  Doug 
continued  to  keep  one  foot  in  radio.   Now  known  as  dean 
of  TV  commentators,  Doug  covers,  in  person,  such  stories 
as  the  conventions  and  the  Andrea  Doria  sinking,   or  calls 
in  CBS  newsmen  from  around  the  world.   "I  try  to  make 
the  show  believable  and  conversational,"  says  Doug, 
"and  still  give  it  punch  and  drama."    The  teamwork  of  his 
staff  in  New  York  and  the  newsmen  in  distant  corners 
of  the  world  gets  full  credit  from  Doug.  .  .  .  Though 
his  face  is  familiar  to  millions,  Doug  retains  his  modesty. 
He  likes  to  tell  of  the  cab  driver  who  enthused  about  the 
show.    "Gee,"  said  the  cabbie,  "I'd  sui-e  like  to  see  the 
show."  As  Doug  paid  his  fare,  he  explained  that  there  was 
no  regular  audience,  but  that  the  cabbie  could  watch 
from   the  control  booth.    "Thanks,"   said   the   cabbie, 
earnestly.   "Thanks  very  much,  Mr.  Gobel."  ...  At  home 
in  Weston,  Connecticut,  Doug,  his  wife  Sara,  and  their  three 
children  pay  less  attention  to  Doug's  fame  than  to  their 
menagerie:    A  thoroughbred  gift  horse,  two  cats  to  which 
Doug  is  allergic,  a  collie  named  Prince,  and  a  cross 
between  a  French  poodle  and  a  German  shepherd  that  is 
known  as  "the  dog"  or  Alsace-Lorraine.    Daughter  Lynn,  15, 
nicknamed  "Swayze"  by  her  classmates,  is  interested  in 
journalism.   Says   Doug,    "I   think   good-looking   women   will 
eventually  replace  us  men."   Donna,  9,  is  "a  complete  little 
ham."   Of  Bobby,  11,  Doug  grins,  "He  looks  exactly  like 
me,  but  they  say  that  on  him  it  looks  good."  This  family 
does  things  together.  As  Doug  says,  he's  always  part  of  a  team. 

Douglas  Edwards  With  The  News  is  seen  on  CBS-TV,  M-F,  6:45  P.M.  (7:15 
on  WCBS-TV),  for  Ronson  Corp.,  Anacin,  Aero  Shave,  Hazel  Bishop.  He  is 
heard  on  Wendy  Warren  And  The  News,  CBS  Radio,  M-F,  12  noon.  (EST) 


He  Couldn't 
Say  "No" 


With  young  visitors  olways  about,  Doug  calls  his  home 
"Boys  and/or  Girls  Town."  Permanent  residents  are  Doug, 
wife  Sara,  Lynn,  young  Donna  and  Bobby,  and  "Prince." 


Donna  and  Bobby  adore  their  gift  horse.    Doug 
looks  it  in  the  mouth,  sees  a  huge  feed   bill! 


15 


BEST  NEW  PROGRAM  ON  RADIO 

The  idea's  the  thing  as  the  best  writing,  producing  and  acting  talents  go  adventuring  in  sound. 


^^^^^K   **''^          l^^l 

■■ 

■ 

^^^Hj^  -r^'^^^H 

^HH^^HPi 

^■'"i^^^^B 

^^■1 

■p 

m 

^B^fc^g 

K'' 

J^H 

^^K|j|H^ 

I^^H 

^^H            ^^^       1 

^^^^^^1 

^^^1 

^^^^^TJ^^^  ] 

^^^^1 

Ih 

^^^^^^^^H 

s 

Hollywood's  Bill  Robson  (in  sweater)  collaborates  with 
such  talent  as  writer  Sann  Pierre  and  actor  Bill  Conrad. 
Below,  New  York's  Paul  Roberts  confers  with  composer 
Avery    Claflin    on    "La    Grande    Breteche"    prenaiere. 


Close  your  eyes  and  open  your  imagination^ 
to  the  CBS  Radio  Workshop 

AN  OPPORTUNITY  TO  DREAM.    That's  how  Howard 
Barnes,  CBS  Radio  Vice  President  in  Charge 
of   Network   Programming,    describes    CBS    Radio 
Workshop.  For  dreaming,  you  need  wide-open 
spaces,  without  frontiers  or  formats.  Though  this 
experimental  program  is  grounded  in  reaUty,  the 
sky — Cloud  Nine,  to  be  specific — is  the  limit. 
Barnes  asks  only  one  question:  "Is  it  worth  doing?" 
In  Paul  Roberts  as  producer  in  New  York  and 
William  N.  Robson  as  producer  in  Hollywood,  he  has 
foiind  two  original  minds.  In  friendly  competition, 
they  stimulate  each  other.  In  weekly  alternation,  they 
stamp  the  programs  with  two  distinct  and  dynamic 
personalities.    Roberts  is  a  quiet-spoken,  hard- 
working, deep-thinking,  intense  Chicagoan.  Robson, 
originally  a  New  Yorker,  has  a  flair  for  flamboyancy 
and  showmanship  and  thrives  in  an  atmosphere  of 
crisis.  Both  have  the  welcome  mat  out  for  ideas  and 
experimentation;  both  close  the  door  firmly  on 
gimmicks  for  the  sake  of  gimmickry;  both  avail 
the  program  of  an  unlimited  geography  of  talent. 
Barnes  points  to  Hollywood's  "Brave  New  World," 
"I  Was  the  Duke"  and  "No  Time  for  Heartaches,"  and 
to  New  York's  "Bring  on  the  Angels"  and  "A  Writer 
at  Work."  Says  Paul  Roberts:    "The  program  is 
essentially  a  preoccupation  with  the  condition  of 
man  in  society,  man  searching  for  ethics  and  moral- 
ity, man  searching  to  understand  himself.  Never 
is  it  a  bedtime  story  or  a  plot  with  a  twist  on  the 
end."  Thus,  in  March,  the  on-the-air  laboratory 
produced  the  story  of  Mohammed  and  his  teachings 
on  "Flaming  Sword,"  then  humanized  canines  and 
kidded  their  masters  on  "Dog's^  Life."  On  AprU  14, 
audiences  will  hear  the  best  script  by  a  young 
unknown  in  a  verse -drama  contest.  A  new  show, 
CBS  Radio  Workshop  is  a  direct  descendant  of  the 
famed  Columbia  Workshop,  which  experimented  in 
physical  soxmds  and  created  excitement  by  discover- 
ing new  writers.  "Today  we  are  forced  to  be  more 
searching,"  says  Howard  Barnes.    "The  ideas 
are  what  make  the  show  stand  up." 

CBS  Radio  Workshop,  Sun.,  4:05-4:30  P.M.  EST.  on  CBS  Radio. 


Circle 
Without  End 


FAVORITE  RADIO  QUIZMASTER 

Hull  discusses  show  with  Strike  It  Rich  creator  Walt  Framer. 


Just  let  the  people  know,  says  Warren  Hull 
of  Strike  It  Rich,  and  they'll  follow 
their  hearts,  reach  out  their  hands  to  help 


ALTHOUGH  Strike  It  Rich  is  now  in  its  tenth  year, 
Warren  Hull  is  stiU  amazed  at  the  vast  number  of 
people  who,  given  the  true  facts,  want  to  help  others. 
Just  let  the  people  know,  and  they  will  foUow 
their  hearts,  he  has  learned. 

"Warren  has  never  become  callous  to  the  thrill 
of  quick  response  from  listeners  and  viewers,  or  to  the 
gratitude  of  those  who  are  helped,"  says  the  show's 
producer,  Walt  Framer.     "It  is  a  constant  miracle  to  him, 
as  it  is  to  all  of  us.   He  is  wrapped  up  in  the  program 
the  entire  time  he  is  on,  and  he  remembers  many  of 
those  who  are  helped,  long  after  they  have  appeared 
with  Warren  on  the  air." 

Warren's  voice  is  filled  with  emotion  as  he  talks  about 
some  of  them.     The  small  boy  who  sacrificed  a  foot 
in  an  accident  but  now  runs  and  plays  games  with 
the  other  kids,  because  the  program  helped  him  get 
an  artificial  foot.     The  family  that  almost  lost  its  home 
diu"ing  the  illness  of  the  breadwinner,  and  is  happily 
getting  back  to  normal.     The  young  New  York  City 
couple  who  longed  to  start  (Continued  on  page  91) 

Warren  Hull  emcees  Strike  It  Rick,  M-F— CBS-TV,  11:30  A.M.  EST, 
and  CBS  Radio,  2 :30  P.M.  EST — as  sponsored  by  Colgate-Palmolive. 


Warren's  sympathies  extend  beyond  studio  walls. 
Below,  he  visits  polio  victim  Barbara  Bertram 
and  autographs  her  cast,  as  Nurse  Braun  watches. 


He's  a  proud  grandpop  now.  Below,  John  Warren 
hlull  the  Second  hands  Dad  the  traditional  cigar 
to  honor  arrival  of  John  Warren  Hull  the  Third! 


17 


EVERYBODY  LOVES  DINAH 


FAVORITE  TV   FEMALE  SINGER 
BEST  PROGRAM  ON  TELEVISION 

What's  in  a   name?     Dinah's  is   on   ships,   planes,   •flowers,   a 
bridge  in  France,  a  beach  on  Long  Island — and  six  big  Awards! 


Songstress  Shore  sells  happiness 
— and  all  America  is  buying 


A  LUCKY  FEW  see  the  honey-blond  hair,  brown 
eyes  and  best-dressed  figure  in  color.    But  more 
than  a  few  million  viewers  consider  themselves 
fortunate,  even  in  black-and-white.     Than  Dinah 
Shore,  they  chorus,  nothing  is  finer.   This  was  a 
landslide  opinion  back  in  1947,  when  Dinah  won  our 
first  Award  as  favorite  songstress  on  radio.   When 
someone  this  good  is  seen  as  well  as  heard,  she  finds 
herself  with  a  total  of  six  such  Awards,  having 
struck  it  doubly  rich  this  year  with  her  first  TV 
medals  as  favorite  female  singer  and  as  star  of 
the   "best  program  on  television,"   The  Chevy  Show 
Starring  Dinah  Shore.  .  .  .  Hospitable  as  her  native 
Tennessee,  fresh  as  the  ocean  breezes  that  blow 
across  her  adopted  California,  Dinah  simply  projects 
happiness.  Hers  is  the  sort  of  effortless  display  of 
joy  that  is  really  a  sharing  of  the  happiness  that  fills 
her  life  as  wife  of  George  Montgomery  and  mother  to 
"Missy"  and  Jody.  But  if  Dinah's  talent  for  joyful 
living  is  obvious,  there  was  a  time  when  her  talent 
for  song  escaped  many  people.   Her  father,  S.  A. 
Shore,  predicted  his  daughter  Frances  Rose  would 
never  become  a  singer.  Her  first  singing  teacher  agreed 
to  come  to  an  amicable  parting  of  the  ways  just 
two  months  after  lessons  had  begun.   When  Nashville 
radio  listeners  grew  so  enthusiastic  over  her 
swinging  delivery  of  the  song,  "Dinah,"  she  changed 
her  name — but  the  new  name  was  no  magic  password 
in  New  York.   When  Dinah  sang  for  the  Dorsey 
Brothers,  they  heard  no  call  to  greatness.  When  she 
auditioned  for  Benny  Goodman,  he  never  missed 
a  bite  out  of  his  ham  sandwich.   Her  first  recordings, 
with  Xavier  Cugat,  credited  "vocal  by  Dinah  Shaw." 
When  she  joined  Ben  Bernie  on  a  network  radio 
show,  the  sponsor  fired  her  as  neither  loud  nor  fast 
enough.    Eddie  Cantor  promptly  hired  her,  and 
that  was  the  turning  point.    Dinah  found  herself 
smiling  right  at  Dame  Fortune,  who,  along  with  a 
coast-to-coast  audience,  began  smiling  right  back. 

The  Chevy  Show  Starring  Dinah  Shore  will  be  on  NBC-TV,  Fri., 
April  19,  from  9  to  10  P.M.  EST.  The  Dinah  Shore  Show  is  on 
NBC-TV,  Thurs.  at  7:30  P.M.,  for  Chevrolet  Dealers  of  America. 


18 


When  Frank  Sinatra  was  Dinah's  guest, 
they  took  tinne-out  to  outograph  a  tree. 


Dinah's    proved    a    connedienne,    too. 
Here,  she  keeps  George  Sobel  company. 


For   both    Eddie    Fisher  and    Dinah,  it 
was  Eddie  Cantor  who  was  stormoker. 


CRAZY  LIKE  A  FOX 

Mitch  Miller  is  a  bearded  musical  prophet 
with  honor  among  both  long-hairs  and  crew-cuts 


Stars  such  as  Frankie  Laine  know  Mitch  as 
both  Sunday  host  and  weekday  record  genius. 


Mike  and  Marge  admire  "Lorenzo,"  but  their 
song,  recorded  by  Mitch,  is  of  another  bird. 


FAVORITE  RADIO  EVENING  MASTER  OF  CEREMONIES 

Wife  Fran  took  this  picture  of  Count  Von  Duck,  Mitch  and  Democrat. 


By  NOW,  Mitch  Miller  is  used  to 
the  dubious  looks  and  the  shsik- 
ing  of  heads.  "Crazy,"  people  have 
muttered,  then  changed  it  to  a  bop 
term  of  approbation  as  an  unortho- 
dox Millerism  proved  again  that  to 
be  a  pace-setter  you  have  to  depart 
from  the  beaten  path.  As  Director 
of  Popular  Artists  and  Repertoire 
with  Columbia  Records,  Mitch  is 
the  man  who  matches  singer  and 
song,  often  in  iinexpected,  jackpot 
combinations.  As  orchestra  leader 
and  oboist,  he's  been  playing  Bach 
since  the  age  of  six,  is  now  a  dis- 
tingmshed  soloist.  "My  long-hair 
friends  may  not  be  psychologically 
adjusted  to  my  financial  success," 
grins  Mitch,  "but  I've  always  felt 
you  don't  have  to  starve  in  music." 
As  host  on  the  hour-long  Mitch 
Miller  Show,  the  bearded  prophet 
and  profit-maker  finds  he's  made  a 
lot  of  friends  along  the  way.  High- 


priced  "names"  sing  for  little  more 
than  their  supper  on  Mitch's  radio 
roiind-table.  Conversation,  they 
prove,  is  still  a  lively  art. 

Personally  as  well  as  professional- 
ly, Mitch  inspires  the  raised-eye- 
brow treatment.  Fifteen  years  ago, 
when  Mitch  thought  he  was  a  good 
enough  musician  to  be  worthy  of  it, 
he  grew  a  beard.  Then  Mitch  took  a 
rare  edition  of  Lawrence  of  Arabia's 
book,  opened  it  to  an  Augustus  John 
illustration  of  an  Arabian  dignitai-y. 
Emir  Feisal,  and  told  a  somewhat 
astonished  barber  to  trim  accord- 
ingly. About  the  same  time,  friends 
told  Mitch  he  was  crazy  to  Uve  as 
far  from  New  York  as  Stony  Point, 
where  the  Millers  had  bought  a  165- 
year-old  farmhouse.  As  the  move 
to  suburbia  spread,  the  same  friends 
later  paid  many  times  what  Mitch 
had,  to  commute  from  even  further 
away.  The  house  is  filled  with  mod- 


ern art  treasures  and  with  antiques, 
"but  not  the  kind  with  curUcues," 
Mitch  adds.  Mitch  fiirst  met  wife  Fran 
when  both  were  students  at  the 
Eastman  School  of  Music.  Their 
children — ^Anny,  18,  Margie,  12,  and 
Mike,  10 — are  musical,  too.  The 
two  youngest  are  the  composers  of 
"Song  of  the  Sparrow,"  which  was 
played  on  Studio  One  and  then  re- 
corded by  Mitch.  "They  just  think 
of  it  as  making  up  tunes,"  says  Mitch, 
who's  not  prophesying  a  Miller  mu- 
sical dynasty.  Composer  Mike  also 
plays  the  recorder,  and  therein  lies 
a  cue  for  other  parents.  Thumb- 
sucking  is  a  traditional  childhood 
problem.  But  when  Mike  wanted  an 
oboe  like  dad's,  Mitch  handed  him 
the  simpler  recorder,  and  the  digit 
never  went  mouthwards.  Once  a  do- 
it-yourselfer,  Mitch  has  given  up 
handiwork.  "The  best  thing,"  he  says, 
"is  to  loaf  and  play  with  the  kids." 


The  Mitch  Miller  Show  is  heard  each  Sunday  from  8:05  to  9:00  P.M.  EST  over  CBS  Radio. 


19 


SATURDAY'S  CHILDREN 


Big  Jon  Arthur  and  Sparkie  go  right  on 
winning  plaudits  from  children  of  all  ages 


FAVORITE  RADIO  CHILDREN'S  PROGRAM 

Eighth  airwaves  birthday — many  happy  returns  to  come! 


20 


Portrait  of  the  happy  Arthur  family  includes  Rosalie,  Lloyd, 
Debbie,  Jon  and  baby  Danny.  They  have  fun  together,  and  the 
children  provide  Jon  with  program  ideas.  Another  contributor 
is  prize  boxer  "Eyelet,"   here  eyeing  one  of  Jon's  little   pals. 


WHEN  Jon  Arthur  thinks  about  his  bushel  of 
awards — including  his  fourth  Award  this  year 
from  TV  Radio  Mirror — a  note  of  genuine  em- 
barrassment makes  itself  heard.   "Don't  get  me  wrong," 
he  explains.   "I'm  truly  grateful  for  the  wonderful 
reception  accorded  No  School  Today.    I  just  wish  we 
had  some  company."    By  "company"  is  meant 
competition,  for  Big  Jon's  show  status  has  changed 
from  best  nationwide  children's  show  on  radio  to  best 
and  only.  In  this  regard,  Jon's  firm  idea  of  radio's 
responsibility   to  children   was   recently   put  to   an 
interesting  test.    Someone  had  pontificated  that 
small-fry   shows   lacked   "adult   appeal,"    and   Jon 
thought  he  saw  a  way  to  blast  that  theory.    "What," 
asked  he,  "would  you  consider  a  satisfactory  mail 
response?"  "Five  hundred  letters,"  was  the  reply.    Jon 
then  asked  listeners  for  two  thousand,  and  is  currently 
plowing  his  way  through  the  more  than  five 
thousand  letters  that  resulted.    Which  is  most  of  the 
reason  why  talk  of  switching  to  TV  or  other  plans 
leaves    Jon    quite    unmoved.    .    .    .     Many    of 
Sparkle's  on-the-air  adventures  begin  in  the  Arthur 
family.   They  live  in  a  large,  rambling  Connecticut 
home,  where  Jon's  day  includes  everything  from 
work  on  his  programs  to  being  with  the  children, 
keeping  up  with  his  photography  hobby,  and  cleaning 
a  rug  on  which  "Eyelet,"  a  boxer  dog,  may  have 
thoughtfully  deposited  generous  bits  of  thoroughly - 
chewed  paper  towels.   All  in  all,  it's  the  kind  of  warm 
family  life  that  many  listeners  recognize — a  top  reason 
why  Big  Jon  and  No  School  Today  are  so  popular, 
and  will  remain  so  in  the  successful  seasons  to  come. 

No  School  Today  is  on  ABC  Radio,  Sat.,  9  to  10:30  A.M.  EST. 


MICKEY  the  Magnificent 


As  host  on  Walt  Disney's 
Mickey  Mouse  Club,  the  world's 
favorite  star  triumphs  again 


THE  RISE  to  fame  of  Mickey  Mouse  is  a  case 
of  rags-to-riches,  rodent-style.  "Walt  Disney 
had  been  working  to  exhaustion  on  my  first 
film,  'Plane  Crazy,' "  reminisces  Mickey.  "In 
those  days  I  was  poor  as  a  church  mouse. 
Didn't  even  own  a  pair  of  shoes.    When  the 
picture  was  finally  previewed,  I  looked  for 
the  nearest  hole."    The  pint-sized  performer 
figured  it  would  be  a  flop — but  the  public 
thought  otherwise.   There  followed  the 
celebrated  "Steamboat  Willie,"  and,  later,  "The 
Lonesome  Ghost,"  in  which  Mickey  first 
teamed  with  Donald  Duck  and  Goofy.  A  high 
point  came  when  Mickey  joined  Leopold 
Stokowski  and  the  Philadelphia  Symphony 
Orchestra  to  do  "The  Sorcerer's  Apprentice"  in 
"Fantasia."  By  October,  1955,  Mickey  had 
been  a  star  for  twenty-seven  years,  had  appeared 
in  no  less  than  125  iilms,  and  had  covered 
with  glory  his  creator,  Walt  Disney,  who 
publicly  saluted  him  as  "the  little  fellow  who 
made  everything  else  possible."   With  a 
background  like  this,  his  entry  into  TV  was  a 
natural.  And  the  staggering  success  of  Mickey 
Mouse  Cluh  is  now  a  video  legend.  .  .  .  On- 
camera,  Mickey  gets  plenty  of  help  from  such 
animated  friends  as  Donald  Duck,  Goofy,  Pluto, 
Jiminy  Cricket  and  Mickey's  longtime  girl 
friend,  Minnie  Mouse  (they've  been  going 
steady  now  for  twenty-nine  years!).  But  most 
prominent  are  the  Mouseketeers — a  group  of 
seventeen    youngsters,    plus    young-in-heart 
Jimmie  Dodd  and  Roy  Williams,  who  inspire 
mountains  of  fan  mail  each  week.    Says 
"Uncle  Walt":     "They  are  regular  American 
kids.  There  isn't  a  show-off  among  them." 
.  .  .  The  show's  format  calls  for  four  segments 
per  day,  with  a  lively  musical  introduction 
of  the  club's  theme  song,  various  production 
numbers,  brief  pep  talks  by  Jimmie  Dodd  plus 
other  specialties   as   connecting  links.   As 
for  the  segments,  they  have  included  popular 
serial  stories  like  "The  Hardy  Boys"  and  "The 
Further  Adventures  of  Spin  and  Marty"; 
glimpses  of  youthful  activity  all  around  the 
world  on  "Newsreel";  personalities  like  Donna 
Atwood  and  Leo  Carrillo  on  "Guest  Star  Day"; 
weekly  visits  with  popular  English  puppet, 
"Sooty";   highly  entertaining  literary 
explorations  witK  Jiminy  Cricket;   fun  at  the 
circus;   lots  of  happy  musical  numbers,  and 
all  of  the  beloved  Disney  menagerie  in 
animated  cartoons.  .  .  .  The  genius  of  Walt 
Disney  has  been  honored  by  twenty-six  Oscars 
and  a  roomful  of  other  awards,  trophies  and 
citations — to  which  is  now  added  your  TVRM 
medal.   Praise  from  every  nation  was  perhaps 
best  expressed  in  a  letter  which  is  among 
Walt's  most  cherished  possessions.    "Dear  Walt 
Disney,"  it  read,  "I  love  you  very  much." 

Walt  Disney's  Mickey  Mouse  Club  is  seen  on  ABC-TV, 
M-F,  from  5  to  6  P.M.  EST,  under  multiple  sponsorship. 


FAVORITE   TV   CHILDREN'S   PROGRAM 

"Come  join  in  the  fun,"  urges  Mickey,  an  invitation 
seconded  by  pals  Walt  Disney  and  Donald   Duck. 


Merry  Mouseketeers — "regular  American  kids."  From  left  to  right, 
front:  Annette  Funicello,  Karen  Pendletort,  Cubby  O'Brien,  SFietty 
Allen  and  Dennis  Day.  Second  row:  Charley  Laney,  Sharon  Baird, 
Darlene  Gillespie  and  Jay  Jay  Solari.  Third  row:  Tommy  Cofe, 
Cheryl  Hoidridge,  Larry  Larsen,  Doreen  Tracey  and  Eileen  Diamond. 
Top  row:  Lonnie  Burr,  Margene  Storey,  Jimmie  Dodd,  Bobby  Burgess. 


21 


HOW  ABOUT  THAT! 


As  announcer  of  champions, 
Mel  Allen  proves  he's  one,  too 


Yankee  Stadium  is  Mel's  "home."    He's  friend  and  fan  to 
such  players  as  Mickey  Mantle,  Triple  Crown  winner  in  '56. 


Home  away  from  the  Yankees  is  in  Bedford  Village,  where 
Mel  relaxes  with  brother  and  co-worker  Larry  and  parents. 


22 


FAVORITE  TV  SPORTSCASTER 
FAVORITE  RADIO  SPORTSCASTER 

Two  Awards  this  year  make  it  a  lucky  seven  for  Me 


THOUGH   Mel   Allen   takes   his   sports   serioiosly,   the 
laughs  still  come.  The  laugh  was  on  Mel  when  he 
covered  the  Vanderbilt  Cup  Auto  Races  from  the  air. 
On  his  first  big-time  sportscast  and  his  first  trip 
in  a  plane,  Mel  ad-libbed  for  fifty-two  long  minutes. 
He  was  up  in  the  air,  literally  and  figuratively, 
until  they  let  Mel  in  on  the  big  secret — the  race  had 
been  called  on  account  of  rain!    Still,  Mel  had 
proved  himself,  and  sports  assignments  began  coming 
his  way.  Starting  his  seventeenth  year  as  the  voice 
of  the  Yankees,  Mel  recalls  one  game  when  his 
favorite  team  opposed  the  St.  Louis  Browns.   It  was 
the  first  time  that  year  that  Mel  had  seen  the  Browns, 
who  announced  a  pinch-hitter  towards  the  end  of 
the  game.   "Well,  folks,"  laughed  Mel,  "I've  just  got 
to  tell  you.   The  guy  I've  had  catching  all  game 
is  now  coming  in  to  pinch-hit."   Mel  can  laugh  as 
he  tells  tales  on  himself.    His  reputation  as  an 
encyclopedia  on  sports  is  assured.   Mel  has  "always 
majored  in  sports,"  but  he's  done  just  about  everything 
in  radio  and  TV,  including  broadcasts  of  the  New 
York  Philharmonic  and  of  Truth  Or  Consequences, 
created  by  his  former  roommate,  Ralph  Edwards. 
Ralph  has  succumbed  to  matrimony,  but  Mel  still 
clings  to  his  bachelor  status.   "A  couple  of  times, 
I  thought  I  was  a  goner,"  Mel  grins.  More  seriously, 
he  explains,  "I  never  hit  in  the  same  circles  often 
enough,  or  maybe  it's  the  proper  circle."    Mel  is  on 
the  road  for  almost  half  the  year.   At  home,  there 
are  night  games,  newsreels,  his  daily  sports  show, 
and  Mel's  inability  to  say  no  to  worthwhile  causes. 
"If  people  think  enough  of  you  to  ask  you,"  says 
Mel,  "you  do  it."  At  least,  if  you're  Mel  Allen! 

Mel  Allen's  Sports  Report,  on  ABC  Radio,  M-F,  6:35  P.M.  EST 
(WABC,  N.Y.,  6:50) ,  for  Allstate  Insurance.  He's  "The  Voice  of 
the  Yankees"  on  the  Home  of  Champions  network  (WPIX  and 
WINS,  in  N.Y.)  for  Ballantine  Beer  and  Winston  Cigarettes. 


NEW  DESIGNS  FOR  LIVING 


7306 — It's  easy  to  make  a  needle- 
painting — just  follow  our  transfer  and 
color-charts  to  make  this  woodland 
scene  your  next  picture.  Transfer  15 
X    I9V2    inches.    Simple    stitches.    25^ 

7307 — Swedish  weaving — a  handicraft 
favorite — is  so  easy  and  fascinating  to 
do.  Charts,  directions  for  2  bahy  mo- 
tifs; 5  borders  that  can  be  used  in 
variety  of  widths.  254 

7086 — A  full-blooming  flower  is  this 
beautiful  apron — fashioned  from  rem- 
nants, in  two  shades  of  glowing  color. 
Embroidery  transfer,  directions  for 
"flower"   apron,    16    inches   long.    25(? 

537 — Old-Fashioned  Bouquet  is  a  fas- 
cinating quilt  to  make!  Each  patch 
takes  but  a  small  scrap  of  material — 
use  many  different  fabrics  to  give  it 
gay  "flower"  coloring.  Charts,  direc- 
tions, pattern  for  patches.  Yardages 
for   single   and   double-bed    sizes.   25(;' 

624 — Elegant  centerpieces  for  your 
table.  "Swan"  basket  is  simple  cro- 
chet; pineapples  alternating  with  shell 
stitch  give  the  lovely  feather-effect. 
Directions  for  11-inch  basket  in  heavy 
4-ply   jiffy   cotton.    Starch   stiflBy.    25^ 

543 — Let  these  filet  doilies  add  a  look 
of  elegance  to  your  home.  Easy-to-fol- 
low charts  make  crocheting  so  simple. 
Lace  stitch  and  K-stitch  bring  out  the 
lovely  design.  Crochet  directions, 
charts  for  18-  and  12-inch  doilies,  done 
in  No.  50  cotton.  25^ 

7194^0nly  two  balls  of  No.  30  cot- 
ton for  this  popular  pineapple  design 
scarf  in  28-inch  length.  Crochet  it  any 
length  you  need  for  your  table.  Cro- 
chet directions.    25^ 


Send  twenty-five  cents  (in  coin)  for  each  pattern  to:  TV  Radio  Mirror,  Needlecraft  Service,  P.O.  Box  137,  Old  Chelsea  Station, 
New  York  11,  New  York.  Add  five  cents  for  each  pattern  for  first-class  mailing.  Send  an  additional  25^  for  Needlecraft  Catalog. 


23 


Fighting  to  retain  sanity,  Tony   Perkins 
relies  on  the  faith  of  wife  Norma  Moore. 


TV 


MVkDMO 
MIRROR 


i:h^  nn^^/i< 


TV  favorites  on 

your  theater  screen 

By  JANET  GRAVES 
Fear  Strikes  Out 

PARAMOUNT,   VISTAVISION 

A  TV  pro  before  Hollywood  discovered  him, 
new  sensation  Anthony  Perkins  stars  in  a 
powerful  story  that  also  steins  from  television. 
On  Climax!,  Tab  Hunter  scored  in  the  real- 
life  role  of  Jim  Piersall,  and  Tony  now  takes 
over  as  the  young  baseball  star  facing  serious 
emotional  problems.  Karl  Maiden  gives  the 
movie  added  impact,  as  the  father  whose  am- 
bition pushes  Tony  into  fame  on  the  diamond 
— and  into  mental  collapse.  In  his  fight  for 
recovery,  the  young  wife  warmly  portrayed  by 
Norma  Moore  helps  him  with  her  faith.  Early 
boyhood  scenes  feature  Peter  Votrian,  one  of 
TV's  finest  child  actors.  With  its  intimacy,  this 
picture  strongly  expresses  the  influence  of  TV 
on  Hollywood.  All  the  wide-screen  processes 
had  movies  concentrating  on  spectacles  and 
sweeping  action  yarns — until  "Marty"  made  its 
way  from  the  home  screen  to  the  theater 
screen.  That  set  off  the  current  cycle  of  more 
personal  films,  close-upping  human   beings. 

Ten  Thousand  Bedrooms 

m-c-m;  cinemascope,  metrocolor 

J    While  Jerry  Lewis  beat  Dean  Martin  into  the 

"    solo-flight  business  on  TV  and  in  vaudeville, 

Dean's  first  to  go  it  alone  in  a  movie.    This 

pleasant   musical   casts   the   romantic   half   of 

the  former  team  as  a  dashing  bachelor  who 

24 


gets  thoroughly  involved  in  the  husband- 
hunting  schemes  of  four  Italian  sisters.  Eva 
Bartok  and  Anna  Maria  Alberghetti,  oldest 
and  youngest  of  the  quartet,  play  the  most  im- 
portant roles,  each  engaging  Dean's  affections 
in  turn.  Several  agreeable  songs  keep  the  pic- 
ture cruising  along  at  a  leisurely  tempo,  as 
beautiful  vistas  of  Rome  satisfy  the  eye.  Be- 
cause the  accent  is  on  love,  though  lightly,  you 
don't  miss  Jerry's  antics,  and  Dean's  a  likable 
singing  hero. 

At    Your    Neighborhood    Theaters 

The  Saga  of  Satchmo  (U.A.) :  With  Edward 
R.  Murrow  as  narrator,  the  story  of  Louis 
Armstrong  and  his  travels  provides  a  feast  of 
Dixieland  jazz  and  an  exciting  variety  of 
scenes  and  people.  Socko  on  TV,  Leonard 
Bernstein's  also  a  movie  success. 

Oh,  Men!  Oh,  Women!  (20th;  Cinema- 
Scope,  De  Luxe  Color:  Star  of  TV  dramas, 
once  Mr.  Peepers'  pal,  expert  comic  Tony 
Randall  almost  steals  this  dizzy  farce.  David 
Niven's  a  psychiatrist  engaged  to  Barbara 
Rush;  Ginger  Rogers  is  a  client;  Dan  Dailey, 
her  husband. 

The  Young  Stranger  (U-I)  :  In  an  excellent 
film  based  on  a  hit  TV  play,  James  MacArthur 
does  a  splendid  job  as  a  teenaser  in  trouble. 
TV  regular  James  Daly  is  his  stubborn  father; 
Kim  Hunter,  his  more  understanding  mother. 

The  Rainmaker  (Wallis,  Paramount;  Vista- 
Vision,  Technicolor) :  Also  born  as  a  TV 
show,  later  a  Broadway  success,  this  wistful 
comedy-drama  gives  Katharine  Hepburn  a 
lovable  role  as  a  farm  spinster  who  gets  en- 
couragement from  adventurer  Burt  Lancaster, 
none  from  brother  Lloyd  Bridges. 


What's  New 


{Continued  from  page  13) 
a  Marine  picture  and  his  hair  was  close-  1 
cropped.  The  rented  wedding  shoes  were  I 
a  size  too  small  and  he  was  running  a 
small  fever.  But  we  got  married  anyway." 
Barbara,  who  is  the  most  colorful  of  the 
Brown  family,  went  around  telling  every- 
one for  weeks,  "I'm  so  excited  about  go- 
ing to  Daddy's  wedding."  At  the  church, 
Barbara,  who  prefers  to  be  called  "Wendy," 
was  given  a  basket  of  gardenias.  She  was 
told  to  stand  at  the  door  and  pass  them 
out  to  the  guests.  Asked  Wendy,  and 
seriously,  "How  much  do  I  charge  for 
them?"  The  daughters  are  very  close  to 
Jim,  for  he  is  a  handy  homebody.  He 
cooks  for  them,  carpenters  shelves  for 
their  rooms  and  grows  their  corsages  in 
the  garden.  He  recently  built  a  tennis 
court  and  has  been  giving  them  lessons. 
But,  as  fond  of  him  as  they  are,  the  girls 
have  never  quite  realized  how  important 
Daddy  has  become.  Jim  reports  he  was 
in  a  Los  Angeles  department  store  auto- 
graphing records  when  he  looked  up  to 
find  his  irrepressible  Wendy  in  line. 
"What  are  you  doing  here?"  he  asked. 
Said  she,  "Daddy,  I  just  couldn't  believe 
it  when  people'  told  me  you're  famous,  so 
I  came  to  see  for  myself."  She  CEime,  she 
saw — he    conquered. 

Come  and  Get  It:  If  you  want  to  live  a 
little,  check  in  with  Victor's  new  album, 
"An  Evening  With  Belafonte."  Harry 
ranges  from  "Mary's  Baby  Child"  thru 
"Danny  Boy"  and  on  to  the  rousing  "The 
Saints  Go  Marching  In,"  plus  nine  other 
ballads  from  England,  Israel,  Haiti  and  the 
West  Indies.  .  .  .  TV  actress  and  panelist 
Betsy  Palmer  at  work  with  another  TV 
grad,  Tony  Perkins.  Betsy  and  Tony  co- 
star  with  Henry  Fonda  in  an  off-beat 
Western,  "Tin  Star."  Tony  plays  a  young 
sheriff  who  matures  in  the  job.  Betsy,  as 
a  young  widow,  helps  him  grow,  but  notes, 
"As  much  fun  as  it  was  working  with 
Tony,  I  was  really  looking  forward  to  my 
first  Western  because  I  love  to  ride.  But 
they  put  me  in  long  skirts  and  kept  me  on 
a  buckboard."  .  .  .  Our  Gal  Sunday  cele- 
brates its  tenth  birthday.  Vivacious  Vi- 
vian Smolen,  so  exciting  as  Sunday,  Lord 
Brinthrope's  wife,  is  still  single.  .  .  .  Kate 
Smith  is  very  busy.  There  was  the  Glea- 
son  show  last  month.  On  April  14,  she 
works  with  Ed  Sullivan  and  then  has  an 
hour  of  her  own  on  Stmday  evening, 
April  28,  on  ABC-TV.  In  the  meantime, 
her  mentor,  Ted  Collins,  is  feuding  with 
M-G-M  Records,  who  just  released  a  new 
album  of  Kate's  containing  hit  songs  of 
past  years.  Ted  complains  that  she  would 
sound  better  in  new  hi-fi.  A  spokesman 
for  M-G-M  says,  "Low-fi,  hi-fi,  we 
wouldn't  have  released  the  album  if  she 
didn't  sovmd  good.  We  thought  it  would 
make  a  nice  album  for  people  who  like 
Kate  Smith.  That's  all."  For  the  many  who 
like    Kate   Smith,   that's    enough. 

No-Guts  Or  Why-Quiz-Shows-Die:  No  one 

blames  Mike  Wallace  for  the  weak- 
ened condition  of  The  Big  Surprise. 
The  problem  is  with  contestants.  No  guts. 
Ratings  are  made  by  contestants  who 
cause  excitement  by  going  for  the  limit. 
Big  Surprise's  big  prize  is  $100,000,  but 
most  of  their  contestants  have  stopped 
yearning  around  $30,000.  Even  dashing 
Errol  Flynn  called  it  quits  when  he  got  to 
that  point.  It's  getting  to  be  a  very 
practical  world  on  all  quiz  and  audience- 
participation  shows.  Take  the  day  Jack 
Bailey,  of  Queen  For  A  Day,  asked,  "When 
you  grow  up,  little  lady,  what  do  you 
want  to  be?"  The  answer  was,  abruptly 
and  succinctly,  "A  rich  old  widow." 


I  dreamed  I  was  an  Outdoor  Girl 

m  mi/  matden/brm*  bra 

I'm  the  nicest  sign  of  the  times . . .  openly  admired  by  thousands !  And  the  bra  that  makes 
all  this  possible  is  the  new  Maidenform  Allegro*.  Here's  the  pretty  elastic  bra  with 
dreamy  comfort  built  right  in . . .  it  gives  with  you,  goes  with  you  every  hour  of  the  day. 
Always  keeps  you  looking  as  glamorovis  and  youthful  as  Allegro's  easy-control  elastic 
makes  you  feel.  White  dacron  and  acetate  elastic  satin.  A,  B,  C  cups  3.50;  D  cup  3.95 


*REe.   U.S.   PAT-  OFF.     £HAID£N    FORM    BRASSIERE  CO.,  INC..   NEW  YORK    16,   N.Y. 


25 


a 


laiK  aDom  cohiiot 


n 


^1 


u 


.  .  .  the  new  Kotex  napkin  with  gentle 
Wondersoft  covering  won't  rub,  won't  chafe,  fits 
perfectly — gives  you  the  instant  and  complete 
absorbency  you  need. 

And  the  new  Kotex  belt  has  a  special  clasp 
that  won't  "dig  in"  like  metal.  This  self-locking 
clasp  holds  the  napkin  securely,  never  lets  it  slip 
or  slide.  The  specially-woven  elastic,  too,  stays 
flat  and  snug— the  edges  won't  curl  or  twist. 

No  wonder  more  women  choose  Kotex 
than  all  other  brands. 


KOTEX  and  WONDERSOFT  are  trademarks  of  Kimberly-Clark  Corp. 


TV 


Ailirroz* 


A.iva.]:*d  Winners,  1956  -  57 


Here  are  the  champs,  just  as  you 
viewers  and  listeners  chose  them 
in  our  tenth  big  nationwide  poll 


TENTH  anniversary!  But  no  "tin  wedding" 
gifts  for  winners  of  TV  Radio  Mirror's 
Tenth  Annual  Awards,  as  chosen  by 
our  readers  in  the  only  nationwide  poU  of 
listeners  and  viewers.  Every  year,  each  lucky 
star  and  program  receives  a  jeweler- 
designed  gold  medal.    With  this  year's 
tally,  some  old  favorites  have  a  bracelet-ful! 
But  new  ideas,  new  schedules — and  new 
voters,  judging  by  the  overflowing  ballot 
boxes — have  also  scored  some  notable 
first-time  victories. 

Length  is  part  of  the  new  look.    NBC 
Bandstand  gave  you  two  "Uve"  hours  of 
popular    orchestras    and    entertainers 
weekday  mornings — and  you  gave 
Bandstand  a  fanfare  as  your  favorite  music 
program  on  radio.    With  two  full  hours 
weekly  on  ABC -TV,  counting  his  new 
Top  Tunes  And  New  Talent,  Lawrence  Welk 
won  the  TV  music-emcee  title  handily. 
And  The  Lawrence  Welk  Show  itself,  in  its 
second  season,  polka-ed  off  with  its 
second  medal  as  your  favorite  musical 
program  on  television. 

NBC  Matinee  Theater,  with  a  sixty-minute 
play  each  day,  was  voted  best  in  TV 
daytime   drama   after   little  more   than   a 
year   on   the   air.     (Two   of   its   closest 
contenders  were  those  first  half-hour-daily 
newcomers,  CBS-TV's  As  The  World 
Turns  and  The  Edge  Of  Night.)    In  iiight- 


FAVORITE  WOMEN'S  TV  PROGRAM 

Home,  just  three  years  old  on  NBC-TV,  wins  its  third  annual 
gold  medal  in  a  row!  Arlene  Francis  has  been  editor-in-chief 
from  first  edition,  Hugh  Downs  is  the  only  "permanent"  male. 


see  foUotcing  pages  for  more  Aicard  Winners  ^ 


27 


^h^^  TV  Ila.d.io  Adrrrox* 
JkwsLrA  "Winners,  1956  -  57  m 


FAVORITE  RADIO  EVENING  DRAMA 

Page  Gilman  as  Jack,  and  Bernice  Berwin  as  Hazel,  are  two  of  the 
on-mike  reasons  why  One  Man's  Family  has  been  winning  honors 
ever  since  Carlton  E.  Morse  created  the  series  'way  back  in   1932. 


28 


FAVORITE  RADIO  COMEDY  PROGRAM 

Amos  'N'  Andy  Music  Hall,  now  in  its  third  year  on  CBS,  is  a 
connparatively  new  venture  for  Freennan  "Annos"  Sosden  and 
Charles   "Andy"   Correll.    They've   been   a   teann  for  thirty  years. 


(Continued) 
time  TV  drama,  the  hour-long  Lux  Video 
Theater   triumphed,    with    Climax!    and 
Playhouse  90  as  chief  runners-up. 

In  radio  drama,  Usteners  still  loved  old 
favorites    in    the    familiar    fifteen-minute 
format.    Again  this  year,  the  night-time 
medal  goes  to  One  Man's  Family  at  NBC — 
where  Father  Barbour  (J.  Anthony  Smythe) 
now  frets  as  fondly  over  his  grandchildren 
as  he  did  over  his  children,  back  in  1932. 
And  The  Romance  Of  Helen  Trent  wins 
daytime   honors   in   competition    with    such 
long-established  favorites  as  Ma  Perkins — 
both  series  began  in  1933,  and  both  have 
been  previous  Award  winners. 

Viewers  apparently  meant  it,  when 
they  told  Gleason  they  thought  he  was  The 
Greatest  in  a  sixty-minute  show — and  "live." 
Missing  from  the  Awards  list  last  year.  The 
Jackie  Gleason  Show  came  back  strong 
to  sweep  in  as  your  favorite  TV  comedy. 
Amos  'N'  Andy  Music  Hall  won  in  the 
radio    category.     Readers    must    have    been 
writing  CBS  at  the  same  time  we  were 
counting  their  votes,  for  Music  Hall  has 
since  been  expanded  to  some  forty  minutes 
a  night,  with  an  extra  airing  on  Saturdays. 
Meanwhile,  "The  Kingfish"   (Freeman 
Gosden)    handled  the  Hall's   turntables 
so  well  he  was  voted  your  favorite  music 
emcee  on  radio! 

Competition's  always  keen  among  the 
laughmakers,   and   they   often   take   turns 
winning.  As  your  favorite  TV  comedian, 
Red   Skelton  garners   his   sixth   Award   for 
program  or  personality,  in  either  radio 
or  television.   Robert  Q.  Lewis  now  has  a 
nicely  assorted  half-dozen,  too — duplicating 
last  year's  medal  as  radio  comedian,  and 
adding  a  brand-new  one  in  the  evening- 
variety  category,  for  his  hour-long  show  on 
CBS  Radio.   Lucille  Ball  is  one-up  on 
them  all,  winning  a  seventh  Award  for 
I  Love  Lucy,  as  TV  comedienne. 

Fran  Allison  pulled  a  surprise  out  of  the 
ballot  box.    She's  won  twice  previously 
as  a  TV  star,  for  Kukla,  Fran  And  Ollie. 
This  year,  she  gets  her  first  medal  as 
radio  comedienne,  for  her  "Aunt  Fanny" 
characterization    on  "  Don   McNeill's 
Breakfast  Club.    Counting  Fran's  personal 
Awards,  these  two  popular  Chicago- 
originated  programs  now  have  a  total  of 
fifteen  to  date! 

Walt  Disney — a  relative  newcomer  whose 
impact  has  been  felt  since  his  first  telecast 
over  ABC — garners  a  first"  medal  this  year. 


FAVORITE  RADIO  RECORD  PROGRAM 

For  1956-57:  The  Martin  Block  Show,  on  the  ABC  net- 
work. Mortin  won  his  first  Award  from  our  readers  as  "fa- 
vorite disc  jockey"  in  1948  when  he  was  on  a  local  station. 


FAVORITE  RADIO  QUIZ  PROGRAM 

Groucho  Marx — You  Bet  Your  Lifel  The  quipnnaster 
and  his  NBC  cash-and-parry  show  have  now  hit  the  jack- 
pot in  every  combination  of  categories  on  radio  and  TV. 


FAVORITE  TV  COMEDIENNE 

It's  no  news  by  now  that  everybody  loves  Lucille  Ball. 
She  and  husband  Desi  Arnoz  and  /  Love  Lucy  have  won  a 
fistful  of  gold  medals — as  star,  team,  and/or  program. 


S^^ 


FAVORITE  TV  WESTERN  PROGRAM 

Cheyenne,  the  adult  Western  produced  by  Warner  Bros., 
starring  Clint  Walker  in  the  title  role  over  ABC-TV,  out- 
drew  some  very  big   guns  in  hotly  contested  territory. 


29 


%nm^ 


TV  Ila.dio  ACirror 

Winners,  1956  -  57 


FAVORITE  RADIO  MYSTERY-ADVENTURE  PROGRAM 

Gang  Busters  captures  its  second  successive  gold  medal  on  Mutual, 
thanks  to  dynamic  direction  and  star-filled  casts.  Seated — Mason 
Adams,  Santos  Ortega,  director  Leonard  L.  Bass,  Marion  Carr,  Law- 
son  Zerbe;  standing — Larry  Haines,  Russ  Dunbar,  Mandel  Kramer. 


30 


FAVORITE  RADIO  MUSICAL  PROGRAM 

NBC  Bandstand  was  right  on  the  beat — and  "live" — every  morn- 
ing, with  perennially  popular  Bert  Parks  (center)  as  host,  and  such 
tuneful,  talented  guests  as  Johnny  Mercer  (left)  and  Guy  Lombardo. 


(Continued) 
with  Mickey  Mouse  Club  winning  out  over 
his  own  Disneyland  and  older  favorites, 
as  best  children's  show  on  TV.    The 
corresponding  radio  Award  goes  to  a  f oui"- 
time   winner,    "Big   Jon"    Arthur's   beloved 
No  School  Today.  In  the  women's  program 
field,  two  champions  have  proved  it  can 
be  a  habit:    Home  wins  for  the  third  time 
straight,  on  TV,  and  Queen  For  A  Day 
makes   it  five-in-a-row   on   radio. 

In  the  mystery-adventure  field,  Alfred 
Hitchcock  Presents  wins  its  first  gold 
medal  in  the  midst  of  its  second  season 
on  CBS-TV,  while  Gang   Busters — the 
long-running,  pace-setting  law  enforcement 
program  heard  over  Mutual — ^repeats  its 
resounding  success  of  last  year.   Jack 
Webb's  Dragnet,  a  frequent  winner  in 
previous  polls,  provided  their  closest  com- 
petition  in   both  radio   and  TV^ 

TV  Westerns  have  been  steadily  in- 
creasing in  both  quantity  and  quality,  and 
the  contest  in  this  territory  was  a  knock- 
down, drag-out  battle.    Radio-wise, 
Gunsmoke  had  little  difficulty  roping  in 
its  third  gold  medal  as  favorite  program, 
while  William  "Marshal  Dillon"  Conrad 
outdrew  all  comers  as  favorite  star.  But  TV's 
Gunsmoke  and   star   James  Amess, 
Cheyenne  and  Clint  Walker,  Wyatt  Earp 
and  Hugh  O'Brian,  fought  it  out  to  the  bitter 
end — with  "veteran"  Roy  Rogers  and  his 
show  making  it  a  four-sided  fight.  The 
winners?  It's  a  first  gold  medal  for  Cheyenne, 
as  favorite  program,  a  sixth  Award  for 
Roy,  as  favorite  star. 

It  was  a  great  year  for  the  ladies,  too, 
and  not  only  in  the  feminine  categories. 
There's  no  element  of  sxirprise  in  the  fact 
that  Loretta  Yoxmg  picked  up  her  fourth 
successive  Award  as  favorite  TV  actress, 
on  her  own  night-time  dramatic  show, 
or  that  Jan  Miner,  star  of  daytime's  Hilltop 
House,  won  the  corresponding  radio  title — 
for  the  seventh  consecutive  time.   It  is' 
news,  however,  that  the  girls  walked  off 
with  some  television  titles  which  might  easily 
have  gone  to  the  menfolk,  or  to  more 
general  programs — ^cuch  as  CBS  Radio 
Workshop,  the  exciting,  experimental  drsima 
program  which  did  win  this  year's  Award 
as  the  best  new  program  on  radio. 

But  look  at  these  Awards  won  by  the 
ladies  in  open  competition:  The  Gale  Storm 
Show,  Oh!  Susanna,  won  out  as  the  best 
of  aU  new  TV  programs.   Pert  little 
Jeannie   Carson —   (Continued  on  page  84) 


FAVORITE  RADIO  DRAMATIC  ACTRESS 

Champion  of  champions — seven  consecutive 
gold  medals! — Jon  Miner,  beloved  Julie  Nixon 
of  Hilltop  House,  now  heard  on  NBC  Radio. 


FAVORITE  RADIO  WOMEN'S  PROGRAM 

Fifth  Award — in  as  many  years— for  Mutual's 
Queen  For  A  Day,  as  emceed  by  Jock  Bailey, 
whose  sympathies  ore  as  quick  as  his  smile. 


FAVORITE  TV  MYSTERY-ADVENTURE  PROGRAM 

Newcomer:  Alfred  Hitchcock  Presents — thrills  and  chills.  It  took 
viewers  only  one  full  season  to  discover  that  the  most  "suspenseful" 
director  of  Hollywood  movies  was  equally  effective  on  CBS-TV  screens. 


31 


FIFTY  MILLION  PEOPLE 


Dialing  Ed  Sullivan, 
they  know  theyHl  always 
find  a  super-showman 
who  highlights  talent 
from  all  over  the  globe 

By  GREGORY  MERWIN 


I 


Above,  Bing  Crosby — Ed  "brought 
him  bock  live"  on  TV.  Left,  Elvis 
Presley  also  mode  history  on  show 
— $50,000  for  a   half-dozen   songs. 


FAVORITE  TV   EVENING   MASTER   OF  CEREMONIES 


32 


CAX'T  BE  WRONG 


Appearing  for  the  first  time  as  a  dramatic  actor,  Ed 
made  news  on  another  man's  program,  too — when  he 
turned  up  playing  himself  on  The  Phil  Silvers  Show. 


Flying  to  Europe,  Sullivan  interviewed  Ingrid  Bergman  on 
the  "Anastasia"  set,  with  Yul  Brynner  and  Helen  Hayes — then 
returned  home  to  find  the  presentation  of  Bergman  "nixed." 


You  THINK  you  know  what  Ed  Sullivan  looks 
like?   Well,  you  don't.   He's  actually  sixty  feet 
tall.  He's  got  muscles  like  Atlas  and  a  voice 
that  projects  from  the  Atlantic  to  the  Pacific.   Ed 
is  a  giant  in  show  business.  For  nine  years, 
he  has  held  secure  the  most  competitive  hour  in 
TV,  eight  to  nine  P.M.  EST,  on  Sunday  evenings. 
And  he's  stronger  than  ever  with  viewers, 
even  though  the  opposition  has  tried  slingshots, 
spectacular  spectaculars,  comedy  kings,  beanstalks 
cind  the  kitchen  sink.   Every  week,  Ed  goes  on 
playing  to  some  fifty  million  people,  more  people 
on  one  evening  than  any  other  great  showman 
has  played  to  in  a  lifetime. 

In  the  flesh,  Ed  is  a  medium-sized  man,  fifty-five 
years  old,  with  black  hair  and  gray  eyes.   His 
poker  face  is  in  character  and  in  keeping  with 
his  personaUty,  for  he  is  99-and-99/100% 
serious.   He  works  in  a  quiet,  modest  office  in  a 
Park  Avenue  hotel.   There  are  the  usvial  cabinets, 
desks  and  typewriters.    The  walls  are  Uned 
ceiling-high  with  books.    Windows  along  one  wall 
are  draped  in  soft  brown.    The  room  is  L-shaped. 
Ed  shares  his  office  with  his  two  assistants. 
Carmine  SantuUo  and  Jean  Sweeny,  with  Ed 
occupying  the  short  part   {Continued  on  page  92) 


FAVORITE   TV    EVENING   VARIETY    PROGRAM 


Ed's  favorite  haven  is  his  Connecticut  farm.     It  was  while 
driving  there  he  suffered  that  big  auto  accident  last  year. 


The  Ed  Sullivan  Show  is  seen  over  CBS-TV,  each  Sunday,  from  8  to  9  P.M.  EST,  as  sponsored  by  the  Mercury-Lincoln  Dealers. 


33 


-ir^ 


f  ^ 


•^^w-i 


#  . 


i 


# 


r 


/, 


i 


d^ 


/ 


BEST  PROGRAM  ON  RADrO       •        FAVORITE  RADIO  DAYTIME  VARIETY  PROGRAM 


mrm 


AND  HIS  STAR  WAGON 

Like  the  magicians  of  olden  times, 
Godfrey  s  miracles  enchant  and  amaze 
everybody — and  none  more  than 
the  youngsters  he  turns  into  stars 

By  MARTIN  COHEN 

Arthur  Godfrey  says,  "The  fun  is  in  new  talent, 
/%  fresh  talent,  in  helping  the  young  ones  go  up.   Of 

course,  when  they  get  in  the  big  money,  then 
they  can  go  out  on  their  own.   But,  in  the  meantime,  • 
wonderful  things  happen  to  you  when  you're  working 
with  new  people.   Just  watching  the  yoiingsters  build 
and  develop  is  a  fine  experience.   You  get  to  know 
their  minds,  the  way  of  their  hearts.   The  best  ones  turn 
out  to  be  decent,  hard-working,  healthy  people." 

Arthur  has  done  more  to  turn  raw  talent  into  bright 
stars  than  any  other  twenty  men  in  radio  or  television. 
Example?  Take  the  lithe  and  lovely  McGuire  Sisters. 
Their  records  sell  by  the  millions.   They  receive 
royal  pay  for  club  appearances.    In  a  dozen  major 
cities,  they  have  broken  attendance  records  set  by  other 
entertainers.   It  is  hard  to  remember  that,  when  they 
first  met  Arthur,  they  were — as  PhyUis  says — "so 
awkward  we  didn't  even  know  how  to  take  a  bow  on 
stage.    We'd  never  even  seen  an  arrangement. 
Honest.    We  had  been  singing  at  the  Van  Cleef  Hotel 
in  Cincinnati  before  we  came  to  New  York.  To  Dot 
and  Chris  and  me,  singing  had  been  a  way  to  earn  our 
living  in  a  way  we  enjoyed.    Nothing  more.    People 
kept  asking  why  we  didn't  go  to  New  York  to  audition 
for  the  big  shows.   Finally,  we  took  the  chance.  We 
made  Talent  Scouts  and,  when  Arthur  Godfrey  phoned 
several  weeks  later  inviting  us  to  appear  regularly  on 


Continued 


> 


A  FAVORITE    RADIO    FEMALE    SINGERS 


Two  more  for  Arthur  Godjrey  Time,  three  for  his  dis- 
coveries— the  fabulous  redhead's  a  "forty-niner"  in  the 
number  of  Awards  voted  by  reoders!  The  McGuire  Sisters 
— Chris,  Dot  and  Phyllis — now  triumph  as  your  favorite 
femme  singers  on  radio,  and  can't  thank  him  enough  for 
the  way  he's  worked  with  them  to  build  up  their  careers. 


Grateful  as  he  is  for  his  gold  medals  and  all  the  other  wonderful  things  that  have 
happened  to  him  lately,  Pat  Boone  finds  his  greatest  joy  with  wife  Shirley,  daughters 
Cherry  (who  just  can't  stay  in  her  crib  when  Daddy's  around),  baby  Debbie  and  Linda. 


1 


AND  HIS  STAR  WAGON 


the  show,  we  were  thrilled.   As  soon  as  we  got 

on  the  show,  we  began  to  realize  how  little  we  really 

knew  about  professional  work." 

But  Arthur  was  interested  in  more  than  the  gals' 
singing  talent.  As  he  says,  "The  intimacy  of  TV  and  radio, 
especially  TV  these  days,  requires  that  performers  be 
either  talented  actors  who  play  well-rehearsed 
parts,  or  real-life  personalities.    Since  my  shows  are 
completely  off-the-cuff,  my  people  must  be  just  that — 
people.    Real  people.    They  must  possess  integrity 
and  intelligence.   They  must  'grow  on  you.'  " 

Pat  Boone,   youngest  of  Arthur's  discoveries,   is  just 
twenty-two.    But  he  has  sold  nearly  seven  million 
records.    He  has  signed  a  seven-year,  miUion-dollar 
contract  with  20th  Century-Fox  to  make  at  least  one 
motion  picture  a  year.    Pat  may  well  become  an 
institution,  the  Sinatra  or  Crosby  of  the  future.  Yet 
Pat's  career  in  the  big  time  began  only  a  year  and  a  half 
ago,   when  he  began   to   guest   regularly   with 
Arthur.   Pat  says,  "I  always  have  the  feeling  that  the 
things  Arthur  has  done  for  me  came  from  friendship  and 
genuine  interest.   When  Arthur  {Contiumd,  on  page    80) 

Arthur  Godfrey  Time  is  heard  on  CBS  Radio,  M-F,  10  to  11 :30  A.M., 
and  seen  on  CBS-TV,  M-Tli,  10 :30  A.M.,  under  multiple  sponsorship. 
Arthur  Godfrey's  Talent  Scouts  is  seen  on  CBS-TV,  Mon.,  at  8:30 
P.M.,  sponsored  by  Thomas  J.  Lipton,  Inc.,  The  Toni  Company,  and 
Paper-Mate  Pens.  The  Arthur  Godfrey  Showis  seen  on  CBS-TV, Wed., 
8  P.M.,  sponsored  by  Pillsbury  Mills,  Kellogg  Co.,  Bristol-Myers 
(Ban,   Bulferin,    and   Ipana),   and    Chef   Boy-Ar-Dee.    (All    EST) 


Super-showcased  on  the  Godfrey  programs,  Pat's  now  in 
movies,  too.  Above,  with  director  Henry  Levin  and  pro- 
ducer Sam  Engel  at  20th  Century-Fox,  for  "Bernardine." 


Pat  Boone's  a  busy  boy,  what  with  movies  and  records 
— plus  his  home  life  (above),  singing  on  the  Godfrey 
shows    (left),    studying    in    Columbia    U.    library    (below). 


'M 

*  JP    ^  —  ^i^k  "^ 

^m       A 

V  A 

■//,  / 


.Ifl^^ 


\  I 


1  / 


£ 


VC 


n. 


»^i 


'i<^T^/ 


'  ^ 

IHL 

Ti 

^^  I  i 

y 

^^K  B^^H 

1^ 

r:1 

1 

1^1 

7i  'nr  m^^ 

^ 

^ 


Welk  (left,  with  Alice  Lon  and  Myron  Floren)  is  proud  that  all  his  band  members  have  exceptional  talent  and  training. 


^ 


99 


&(m\^(\m  Music 

Pied  piper  Lawrence  Welle  lures  a 

nation  back  to  dancing . .  .and  leads  young 

musicians  back  to  a  gay  tradition 


By   FREPDA  BALLING 


WHETHER  you're  attending  the  country  club  cotillion, 
the  junior-senior  prom,  the  annual  dinner  dance  given  by 
your  husband's  trade  association — or  just  going  out 
because  you  love  to  dance — there's  the  age-old  feminine 
problem:  What  to  wear?   Skipping  over  a  host  of  advisers 
of  both  sexes  and  unlimited  geography,  one  comes  to  the  man 
who  is,  simultaneously,  most  qualified  to  give  dress-for- 
dancing  advice — and  also  courageous  enough  to  speak  up: 
Lawrence  Welk  of  "Champagne  Music"  fame. 
Says  Mr.  WeDc,  "I'm  proud  to  say  that  (Continued  on  page  74) 

The  Lawrence  Welk  Show,  ABC-TV,  Sat.,  9  to  10  P.M.,  is  sponsored  by  the 
Dodge  Dealers  of  America.  Lawrence  Welk's  Top  Tunes  And  New  Talent, 
ABC-TV,  Mon.,  9:30-10:30  P.M.,  is  sponsored  by  both  Dodge  and  Plymouth. 
On  ABC  Radio,  Lawrence  Welk  and  his  band  are  heard  Sat.,  at  10:05  P.M., 
and  once  a  week  on  ABC's  Dancing  Party,  M-F,  9  P.M.,  also  at  various  times 
in    different   areas    (see   local   papers;    all   times   given   here   are   EST). 


Latest  additions  to  what  has  become  known  as 
one  of  the  happiest  of  "musical  families"  are  the 
Lennon  Sisters — Dianne,  Peggy,  Kathy  and  Janet, 
above — and  Jack  Imel,  formerly  of  U.  S.  Navy. 


FAVORITE  TV  MUSICAL  MASTER  OF  CEREMONIES  •   FAVORITE  TV  MUSICAL  PROGRAM 


39 


Hal   March   wishes   all   +he   world   the   kind   of   happiness  he  hos  found  with  his  wife,   Candy,   her 
two  children,  Steven  and  M,ssy-and  the  brand-new  baby  they  expect  some  time  this  very  month. 


Just    whimsical    decor— home    is    no        He   enjoys   his   records— and   all   the 
"house  of  cards"  to  Hal  and  Candy.        other  things  which  success  can   buy. 


But   "things"    aren't   important — Hal 
and   Candy   know   life's  true   values. 


the  Man  who  Really  Won 


With  all  that  The  $64,000  Question 
has  meant  to  both  winners  and  viewers, 
it's  Hal  March  who  got  the  prize 
which  can  never  be  measured  in  money 

By  ED  MEYERSON 


BEHIND  every  TV  program,  there  is  an  idea. 
In  front  of  every  program,  facing  the 
camera,  there  is  a  man.  When  the  idea  is 
good,  and  the  man  is  good,  you  have  a  successful 
show.  When  the  idea  is  as  good  as  The 
$64,000  Question,  and  the  man  is  as  good  as 
Hal  March,  you  have  a  prodigious  hit  which 
sweeps  audience  ratings  and  wins  many 
honors.   But  the  key  word  is  still  "good." 
Hal  March  is  just  that — in  the  most  old- 
fashioned,  religious  sense  of  the  word.  He  cares 
about  his  fellow  human  beings.   And,  caring 
about  them,  he  has  found  himself  and  his  own 
niche  in  this  world  he  loves. 

From  the  show's  inception,  back  in  June, 
1955,  Hal  has  insisted  that  the  contestants  are 
the  real  stars  of  the  show.   As  performers, 
however,  they  are  amateurs.  They  don't  know 
how  to  "put  a  wall  around  themselves"  so 
their  personal  feelings  don't  show.    And 
because  thpy  are  so  exposed,  Hal  feels  pro- 
tective towards  them.    He  uses  aU  of  his 
professional  technique — the  result  of  nineteen 
years  in  every  branch  of  show  business^to 
make  them  look  good,  rather  than  himself. 
That  is  why  contestants  on  The  $64,000  Question 
sound  more  interesting,  reveal  more  colorful 
personalities,  and  evoke  more  enthusiasm. 
Somehow,  that  agonizing  decision — "Shall  they 
take  their  winnings  and  quit,  or  go  on  to 
gamble  on.  the  next  question?" — seems  more 
earth-shaking  with  Hal  in  there  rooting  for 
those  who  must  make  the  choice. 

But  selflessness  is  not  {Continued  on  page  78) 

The  $64,000  Question,  emceed  by  Hal  March,  is  seen  on 
CBS-TV,  Tues.,  10  P.M.  EST,  sponsored  by  Revlon,  Inc. 


To  Hd,  the  show's   real   stars   are   the   quiz   contestants 
— such  mighty  men  as  sea-wise  explorer  Peter  Freuchen. 


FAVORITE  TV  QUIZMASTER  •  FAVORITE  TV  QUIZ  PROGRAM 


41 


a  Crown  for 
the  KINGFISH 


FAVORITE  RADIO  MUSICAL  MASTER  OF  CEREMONIES 

Gosden's  office  holds  prized  mementoes  of  three  decades:  Bound  copies 
of  Amos  'N'  Andy  scripts,  pictures  of  o  fellow-golfer  named  Dwight  D. 
Eisenhower,  photos  of  Chicogo,  where  the  first  beloved  series  began. 


Two  radio  immortals  at  the  turntable:  Charles 
Cornell — best  known  to  millions  as  Andy — and 
Freeman  Sosden,  who's  both  Amos  and  Kingfish. 


Freeman  Gosden^  of  Amos  'it'  Andy 
Music  Hall,  reaps  new  laurels  for 
one  of  radio's  most  honored  teams 

By  DEE  PHILLIPS 

AMOS  'n'  Andy — ^Freeman  Gosden  and 
i  Charles  Correll — ^have  been  broadcast 
favorites  for  thirty  years.   On  weekday 
evenings,  the  Amos  'N'  Andy  Music  Hall  still 
sovinds  the  Angelus  for  millions  of  listeners 
to  CBS  Radio,  as  their  friend,  the  Kingfish, 
casually  emcees  forty-five  minutes  of 
music  and  fun.   But  Gosden  and  Correll 
remain  humble.   "We've  received  a  lot 
of  awards  and  keys  to  the  city,  but — since 
the  advent  of  television — not  too  many," 
admits  Freeman   Gosden,  who   is   George 
"Kingfish"  Stevens  in  person,  as  well  as 
Amos.   "I'm  proud  to  know  that  people  are 
still  thinking  of  us.  Competing  with  the 
quantity  and  quality  of  emcees  on  radio- 
today,  I'm  very  grateful." 

"One  award,"  he  grins,  "we've  kept  here 
in  the  office.   I  believe  it's  one  of  the 
few  of  its  kind."  It  was  dated  March,  1938, 
commemorating  Amos  'N'  Andy's  tenth 
anniversary  in  national  coast-to-coast  radio 
— and  it's  signed  by  hoth  Lenox  Lohr, 
then  prexy  of  NBC,  and  Bill  Paley, 
prexy  of  CBS. 

Freeman's  office  looks  more  like  a  lovely 
study.   On  one  wall  are  pictures  of  Bobby 
Jones,  the  Augusta  National  Golf  Club,  and 
one  of  President  (Continued  on  page  93 ) 

Amos  'N'  Andy  Music  Hall  is  heard  on  CBS  Radio, 
M-F,  7:05-7:45  P.M.  EST,  and  Sat.,  12:05-12:30  P.M. 


42 


HUMOR 
with  a  Heart 

As  Fran  Allison  or  ''Aunt  Fanny," 

here^s  one  native  wit  who  is 

also — and  always — a  lovable  lady 

By  HELEN  BOLSTAD 

AUNT  Fanny  had  come  to  town.    In 
Charleston,  West  Virginia,  children  lined 
the  streets  and  mothers  held  their  hands 
tight  to  keep  them  from  running  headlong 
into  the  car.  That  night  at  the  theater, 
a  very  yoimg  lady  did  escape  parental 
supervision. 

Miss  Mildred  Lucas,  president  of  Pro- 
motional Enterprises,  who  had  staged  the 
show  to  introduce  Aunt  Fanny  bread, 
tells  the  story:  "The  child  had  been  eating 
an  ice  cream  cone.  She  threw  the  cone 
and  flung  herself  into  Fran's  arms.   Before 
the  mother  could  pry  the  child  loose, 
Fran's  face  was  smeared  from  sticky  kisses, 
she  had  ice  cream  on  her  shoulders,  and 
her  evening  gown  was  all  spotted.  But  Fran 
was  happy.   She  loves  children  as  much 
as  they  love  her.  When  she  took  her  encore, 
she  explained  to  the  audience,  'I  met 
a  little  friend.' " 

In  Milwaukee,  it  was  the  children  of 
St.  Joseph's  Orphanage  who  broke  ranks  to 
greet  her.  In  Chicago,  youngsters  thwarted 
a  cop  and  caused  a  traffic  jam.   Fran  had 
stalled  her  car  at  a  traffic  light.    An 
angry  police  officer  demanded  her  driver's 
license.  Fran  produced  an  outdated  one. 
The  new  one  was  at  home.    During 
the  ensuing  discussion,  a  boy  spotted  her 
and  yelled,  "There's  Franny."  Children 
seemed  to  materialize  from  thin  air.   The 
cop  shook  his  head.   "Lady,  I  wouldn't  dare 
give  you  a  ticket.  But  please  get  going 
before  you  tie  up  the  town." 

If  Fran  Allison  fails  to  win  a  lasting 
place  as  an  American  humorist,  it  will  be 
because  her  charm  outshadows  her  wit. 
Fans  accept  her  as  part  of  their  daily  lives. 
They  love  her  too  much  to  stop  to 
evaluate  her  great  talent. 

If  her  small  town  stories  fail  to  become 
an  enduring  part  of  (Continued  on  page  71) 

Fran  Allison  is  heard  as  Aunt  Fanny  on  Don  McNeill's 
Breakfast  Club,  on  ABC  Radio,  M-F,  from  9  to  10  A.M. 
She's  seen  on  Burr  Tillstrom's  Kukla,  Fran  And  Ollie, 
ABC-TV,  M-F,  from  7  to  7:15  P.M.  (All  times  EST) 


FAVORITE  RADIO  COMEDIENNE 

Heard  as  "Aunt  Fanny"  on  Don  McNeill's  Breakfast  Club 
(obove) — or  seen  co-starring  with  Kukla  and  Ollie  on  TV 
— Fran  Allison  just  naturally  has  spontaneity  and  charm. 


Kiss  for  a  small  admirer  at  St.  Joseph's  Orphanage  in 
Milwaukee.   Children   know   Fran's   laugh   is   always   kind. 


43 


fhe  Great  Moore  Mystery 


I've  Got  A  Secret  stars  Garry  Moore  as  host,  with  some  of  TV's  brightest  "jurors"  on  its  panel: 
Bill  Cullen,  Jayne  Meadows,  Henry  Morgan,  Faye  Emerson.  All  five  hove  no  secrets  from  each  other 
nor,  seemingly,  from  their  viewers.  Closets,  trunks — everything's  opened  and  revealed  to  the  camera! 


Garry  has  just  one 
"secref'—shared  only  by 
his  audiences  and 
fellow  workers!— which 
many  a  star  would 
still  like  to  learn 

FAVORITE  TV  PANEL  PROGRAM 


By  MARY  TEMPLE 

It's  rather  an  odd  paradox  that  I've 
Got  A  Secret  keeps  everyone's  secrets 
safe  except  its  own!   By  now,  every 
viewer  knows  all  sorts  of  things  about 
everyone  on  the  panel:  Jayne  Meadows, 
Bill  CuUen,  Faye  Emerson,  Henry 
Morgan.   Most  of  all,  they  know  that 
man-of-all-talents,   moderator   Garry 
Moore.   The  qualities  and  facets 
revealed,  week  by  week  and  month 
by  month,  on  the  air. 

The  same  goes  for  The  Garry  Moore 
Show,  Garry's  daytime  television 
program.    By  now,  everyone  knows 
all  sorts  of  things  about  the  show's 
regulars:   Durward  Kirby,  Denise  Lor, 
Ken  Carson,  Howard  Smith.    Little 
foibles,  big  ambitions.    Amusing  things, 
interesting  things,  and  sentimental 
things. 

It's  no  secret  to  anyone  any  more, 
for  instance,  that  Garry  himself 
is  a  bit  on  the  {Continued  on  -page  76) 

I've  Got  A  Secret,  CBS-TV,  Wed.,  9:30  P.M., 
is  sponsored  by  R.  J.  Reynolds  for  Winston 
Cigarettes.  The  Garry  Moore  Show  is  seen  on 
CBS-TV,  M-Th,  10-10:30  A.M.— Fri.,  10-11:30 
A.M. — under   multiple   sponsorship.    (All    EST) 


Garry  never  beats  the  drum  for  himself — except  in  an  occasional  jam 
session  on  The  Garry  Moore  Show,  with  Howard  Smith's  "Barefoot  Phil- 
harmonics": Ed  Shaughnessy  on  drums;  Herman  "Trigger"  Alpert,  bass; 
Howard    Smith,    piano;    Phil    Olivella,    clarinet;    and    Carl    Kress,    guitar. 


Fancy  costumes  can't  hide  the  good 
sportsmanship  of  Durward   Kirby  .  .  . 


Or  singing  voices  and  charm 
of  Denise  Lor  and  Ken  Carson. 


FAVORITE  TV  DAYTIME  MASTER  OF  CEREMONIES 


45 


Ozzie  and  Harriet  agree  that  children  are  the  nnost  important  ingredients  of 
a  happy  marriage — particularly  such  fine  sons  as  David  and  Ricky  (right). 


46 


Ideally  matched  as  they  are,  Ozzie 
and  Harriet  Nelson  realize  that 
happy  marriages  don't  "just  happen'' 

By  GORDON  BUDGE 

HUSBAND  AND  WIFE  TEAM — it's  an  ideal  description 
of  Ozzie  and  Harriet  Nelson.   Eight  times, 
they've  been  voted  our  readers'  favorites. 
But  the  story  goes  back  much  further  in  time. 
They've  been' a  happily  married  team  for  more  than 
twenty-one  years — though,  standing  between  her 
two  athletic  sons,  twenty-year-old  David  and 
seventeen-year-old  Ricky,  Harriet  still  looks  more 
like  their  sister  than  their  mother!    The  youthful 
sparkle  in  her  blue  eyes  is  only  a  reflection  of 
the  happiness  she  and  Ozzie  have  found  in  their 
life  together  .  .  .  the  happiness  they've  found, 
not  accidentally,  but  on  purpose. 

"To  Ozzie  and  me,"  says  Harriet,  "consideration 
of   each   other   is   one   of   the   most   important 
factors  in  making  a  marriage  work.   If  people 
are  considerate,  look  at  life  from  the  other  fellow's 
point  of  view,  they  are  not  apt  to  get  into  trouble 
And  being  honest  iwith  each  other  is  also  part 
of  the  consideration.    I  think  if  you  really  value 
your  marriage — or  any  relationship,  for  that 
matter — you'll  agree  it's  something  to  be  worked 
at.    There's  no  starting   {Continued  on  page  82) 


They  have  individual  interests,  too.  The  boys,  their 
cor  and  studies.  Oz,  his  production  duties,  hlarriet, 
her  homemaking.  But  they  never  want  to  be  apart  very 
long — that's  how  they  first  learned  they  were  in  love! 


Harriet  is  glad  the  family  can  spend  so  much  time 
together,  from  ice-box  raiding  to  acting  on  the  set. 


New  Adventures  Of  Ozzie  And  Harriet,  with  David  and  Ricky, 
ABC-TV,  Wed.,  .9  P.M.  EST,  is  sponsored  by  Eastman  Kodak. 


Today,  possessions  don't  moHer  much  to   Bob — but 
he   still   gets   a    laugh   out   of   his   clown    collection! 


Mmm^ 


By  GLADYS   HALL 


THIS  MONTH  of  April,  Robert  Q.  Lewis  celebrates  a 
birthday.  This  month,  relatives,  friends  and  colleagues 
also  join  in  wishing  him  a  happy  anniversary.  For  this 
month  marks  Bob's  tenth  year  with  CBS — both  CBS 
Radio  and  CBS-TV — the  most  important  decade  he  has 
spent  on  this  laugh-hungry  earth.  What  does  a  man 
think,  how  does  he  feel,  when  he  is  passing  such  a 
significant  milestone? 

"Ten  years,  ten  working  years,  in  the  life  of  a  man," 
says  Bob,  "is  a  period  of  growing  up,  of  learning  to 
survive.  At  the  end  of  the  decade,  the  time  has  come 
to  ask  yourself:  Where  am  I?  What  am  I?  What  have 
I  got,  in  these  ten  crucial  years,  that  is  of  value  to  my- 
self?   What  have  I  given  that  is  of  value  to  others? 


It's  d  very  grateful  Mr.  Lewis  who  counts  up  the  blessings 
which  ten  years  at  CBS  (radio  and/or  TV)  have  brought  him 


Today,  it's  people  that  matter — fine  folks  like  announcer  Lee  Vines,  producer  Bruno 
Zirato,  Jr.,  singer  Richard  Hayes,  musical  director  Ray  Bloch,  songbird  Judy  Johnson.' 


In  short,  what  have  I  learned — and  what  am  I  going  to 
do  with  it,  in  the  years  ahead? 

"Such  questions  must  be  answered  honestly.  Where 
I  am,  professionally,  is  easy  to  answer:  From  8  to  9 
P.M.,  New  York  time,  Monday  through  Friday,  I  am  on 
CBS  Radio— and  from  11:05  A.M.  to  12  noon,  Saturday. 
With  me  on  the  evening  show  are  singers  Judy  Johnson 
and  Richard  Hayes,  Ray  Bloch  and  his  orchestra,  our 


annoiincer,  Lee  Vines,  and,  of  course,  guests.  What  we 
try  to  do  on  the  show  is  provide  an  hour  of  light,  breezy 
entertainment,  tuneful,  laugh-ful,  provocative,  gay.  To 
those  who  are  not  already  among  our  listeners — to  all 
those  who  have  deserted  radio  for  TV — ^I'd  like  to  ex- 
tend a  hearty  invitation:   Come  hack  to  radio. 

"Com.e  back  to  radio,  as  I  have  done.   Not  altogether 
willingly  at  first,  I  must  admit.  (Continued  on  page  87) 


The  Robert  Q.  Lewis  Show  is  heard  on  CBS  Radio,  M-F,  8  to  9  P.M.  EST— Sat.,  11:05  A.M.  to  12  noon. 

FAVORITE  RADIO  COMEDIAN    •    FAVORITE  RADIO  EVENING  VARIETY  PROGRAM 


49 


Call  it  Faith 


Art  Linkletter  believes  in  many 
things,  but  in  nothing  more  strongly 
than  the  hope  of  our  children 

By  DORA  ALBERT 

THE  SMALL  BOY  cowered  in  his  seat  in  church,  his 
blue  eyes  fixed  on  the  floor.   Out  of  the  comer  of 
his  eyes,  he  had  seen  his  foster  father  stop  the 
minister  of  the  church  at  the  end  of  a  Biblical 
quotation.    "Brother,"  said  his  foster  father,  in  his 
stentorian  voice,  while  his  well-meaning  face 
beamed  with  good  will,  "I'm  sure  you'll  want  to  know 
that  you  made  a  mistake  in  the  text  you  just  read.  If 
you  will  just  look  at  your  text  of  Matthew  5:20 
again,  you'll  see  that  you  shouldn't  have  read:  'the 
righteousness  of  the  scribes  and  the  Pharisees.'   You 
should  not  have  used  the  article  'the'  before  the 
word  'Pharisees.' " 

The  Reverend  John  Fulton  Linkletter,  Art 
Linkletter's  foster  father,  was  always  right  on  such 
matters.   He  knew  his  {Continued  on,  page  72) 


One  of  life's  greatest  gifts  to  Arf  and  his  wife,  Lois,  is 
the  opportunity  to  bring  up  their  own  five  children:  Robert, 
Sharon  and  Dione  (in  foreground),  teenagers  Jack  and  Dawn. 


Baby  days:  Art  was  adopted, 
never  knew  his  own  parents. 


At  6,   "Link"   lived   in   a 
serious,    uncertain    world. 


Art  early  learned  to  work,  but  not  to  worry.   It  was  a  big 
gannble  for  him,  doing  the  San  Francisco  Fair  'way  back  when. 


FAVORITE  RADIO  DAYTIME  MASTER  OF  CEREMONIES 


50 


Art  Linkletter  s  House  Party  is  on  the  air  Monday  through  Friday— on  CBS-TV,  2:30  P.M.,  sponsored  by  Pillsburv  Mills,  Lever 
Brothers,  Kellogg,  Swift  &  Co.,  Simoniz,  Campbell  Soup,  Standard  Brands— CBS  Radio,  3  P.M.,  Pharma  Craft,  Lever,  Standard 
Brands,  Swift,  Simoniz,  A.  E  Staley,  California  Prunes,  Renuzit.  His  People  Are  Funny  is  seen  on  NBC-TV,  Sat.,  7:30  P.M.  for 
Salem  Cigarettes  and  The  Toni  Company— and  heard  on  NBC  Radio,  Wed.,  8:05  P.M.,  for  Anahist  and  others.  (All  times  EST) 


IVIJ\TIIM 


Host  John  Conte  has  a  willing  and  winsome  substitute 
when  he's  the  star  of  a  Matinee  Theater  play.  Wife 
Ruth  takes  over,  is  repaid  by  John's  help  around  home. 


With  host  John  Conte,  NBC  Matinee  Theater 
brings  evening  glitter  to  TV  daytime  drama 


EVEN  in  the  mammoth  medium  of  television,  NBC 
Matinee  Theater  is  a  giant.    The  statistics  on  this' 
five-day-a-we«k,  full-hour  dramatic  program, 
presented  live  and  in  color,  would  make  a  feast  for  the 
hungriest  Univac.    In  one  year,  the  program  used  3,500 
actors,  presented  248  plays  and  worked  through  1,750,000 
pages  of  scripts.  Not  counting  actors,  it  takes  275  men  and 
women  to  produce  the  program  in  Hollywood.   One  of 
the  most  intriguing  figures  involved  belongs  to  Mrs.  Cleo 
Maletis  of  Portland,  Oregon.   The  mother  of  three,  she 
was  named  "Mrs.  America  of  1957,"  then  explained  her 
proficiency  at  cooking,  sewing  and  ironing  as  a  result  of 
her  desire  to  make  time  to  watch  Matinee  Theater. 
As  executive  producer  Albert  McCleery  has  said:    "The 
American  housewife  has  been  emancipated  from  a  good 
many  of  her  chores  by  modern  electrical  appliances  and,  if 
you  give  her  good  entertainment,  she'll  find  the  time  to 
watch  it."  .  .  .  With  creative  rather  than  mechanical  brains, 
McCleery  and  his  staff  have  kept  to  night-time  quality, 
even  while  going  at  an  assembly-line  pace.   With  original 
stories  and  stage,  screen  and  literary  adaptations,  acted 
by  top  stars  from  both  coasts,  they  provide  viewers 
with  the  kind  of  entertainment  that  is  the  closest  we  have 
yet  come  to  the  concept  of  a  "national  theater." 
There  are  more  directors  and  actors  at  the  disposal  of 
producer  McCleery  than  are  used  by  the  Comedie 
Francaise,  or  the  largest  theater  company  in  the  world. 
Their  audience  is  in  the  millions  and,  judging  by  the 
votes  for  the  show  and  its  host,  it  is  growing  every  day. 

As  host  and,  from  time  to  time,  as  star,  John  Conte  is 
the  Matinee  idol.   As  a  singer  and  actor,  this  handsome 
figure  of  a  man  has  been  basking  in  the  footlights  ever 
since  he  sang  "Oh!  Susanna,"  in  a  grammar-school 
production  and  found  the  applause  was  irresistible.    He 
studied  at  the  Pasadena  Playhouse,  carried  a  spear  in 
Katharine  Cornell's  touring  company  of  "Romeo  and 
Juliet,"  then  went  on  radio  as  an  announcer.   Later,  he 
starred  in  his  own  network  musical  series  and  was  singing 
emcee  of  the  Frank  Morgan-Fanny  Brice  radio  show.  After 
service  with  the  Armed  Forces,  he  appeared  on  Broadway 
in  musical  comedies,  some  of  which  he  also  did  as 
TV  spectaculars.  Then  a  trip  to  Hollywood  for  a  role  in 
Climax!  led  to  a  featured  part  in  the  film  "The  Man  With 
the  Golden  Arm,"  and  to  his  hosting  chores  on  Matinee 
Theater.  Returning  to  Hollywood,  John  brought  a  bride 
with  him.   Redheaded  Ruth  Harris  of  Atlanta  was  a 
long-time  Conte  fan.    "I  had  had  a  crush  on  John  Conte 
since  I  was  in  high  school,"  she  admits.   "I  used  to  duck 
out  of  class  for  fifteen  minutes  every  morning  to  turn 
on  his  singing  show  on  the  car  radio."    Ruth,  who  takes 
over  as  hostess  when  John  stars  in  a  Matinee  Theater  play, 
also  admits  that  she  had  to  do  the  proposing.    But 
John,  even  for  an  audience  of  one,  answered  on  cue. 

NBC  Matinee  Theater,  with  John  Conte  as  host,  is  seen  on  NBC-TV, 
Monday  to  Friday,  from  3  to  4  P.M.  EST,  in  color  and  black-and-white. 


FAVORITE    TV    DRAMATIC    ACTOR      •      FAVORITE    TV    DAYTIME    DRAMA 


• 


iT^ .; 


.  '^■=^ 


f 


■I 


-*"» 


igr^ 


tr^ 


Riding  high,  this  crew  won  two  gold  medals,  the  first  time  'round.  Left  to  right:  Arthur  Hiller,  Laurence 
Schwab,  Walter  Grauman,  Lamont  Johnson  and  Livia  Gronito,  all  directors;  Eddie  Allen,  staging  supervisor; 
June  Leff,  casting  director;  Darrell  Ross,  operations  head;  Boris  Sogal,  director;  Winston  O'Keefe,  talent 
chief;   William   Moseley,   executive   assistant;   Albert  McCleery,  executive  producer,  and  John  Conte,  host. 


Savrola  starred  Sarah  Churchill,  La- 
mont Johnson.  Author:  Sarah's  dad. 


Host  John  Conte  and  Maria   Palmer  in 
"Temptation  for  a  King,"  the  lOOth  play. 


Classic  drama  "Wuthering  Heights" 
paired  Richard  Boone,  Peggy  Webber. 


FOREm  iHEemmr 


"Honeymooners"  Joyce  Randolph,  Audrey  Meadows  end  Art  Carney  give  solid  backing  to  Jackie's  inspirations. 

With  "The  Honeymooners"  now  turning  to  musical  comedy,  Jackie's  moods  and  movements  are  larger  than  life — ^to 

Jackie  obligingly  belts  out  a  song  for  maestro  Ray  Block  the  delight  of  Jack  Lescoulie  and  others  on  the  show. 


■^i^ 


^] 


When  things  get  toughest,  Jackie  jokes.    Laughing  staff  includes  such  Gleason  kingpins  as 
(left  to  right)  "Bullets"  Durgom,  Jack  hlurdle,  Jack  Philbin,  Stanley  Poss,   Frank  Satenstein. 


You  don't  have  to  take  Gleason's 
own  word  for  it.    Just  ask  the  folks 
who  work  with  Jackie— and  love  it! 

By  FRANCES  KISH 

WHEREVER  Gleason  is,  there's  excitement.    It 
underscores  the  entire  Jackie  Gleason  Show,  runs 
through  it  Uke  a  charge  of  electricity.   Crackles  and 
sputters  across  the  stage  of  CBS-TV  Studio  50,  down 
into  the  audience,  out  through  the  television 
screens  across  the  coiintry.  The  actors  feel  it,  the  crew 
feels  it,  and  anyone  who  drops  in  at  a  Saturday 
afternoon  rehearsal  and  is  (Contin-tied  on  page  90) 

The  Jackie  Gleason  Show  is  seen  on  CBS-TV,  Sat.,  from  8  to  9  P.M. 
EST,  as  co-sponsored  by  P.  Lorillard  Co.  for  Old  Gold  Cigarettes. 


FAVORITE  TV  COMEDY  PROGRAM 


June  Taylor  knows   his  spirit  of  fun   in    rehearsal, 
his  unfailing  courtesy  to  her  hard-working  dancers. 


That's  how  Perry  Como  describes 
it,  but  it  takes  a  lot  of  know-how  to 
relax — and  do  a, superlative  job,  too 

By  ALICE  FRANCIS 

y%  LL  OF  US  were  happy  with  The  Perry  Como 
^^  Show  last  year,"  a  man  who  works  with 
Perry  was  saying  recently.    "But  we  just 
didn't  know  then  how  good  it  could  get.   We 
have  been  even  happier  with  it  this  year." 

"Yes.  And,  while  all  those  nice  stories  people 
write  about  Perry  are  true,"  a  girl  co-worker 
added,  "still,  they  don't  tell  half  enough.   Perry 
has  the  kind  of  charm  that  is  hard  to  put 
down  on  paper.   He's  easy.   He's  helpful  to 
many  people,  without  making  a  big  deal  of  it. 
He's  a  very  hard  worker  and  a  thinker, 
underneath  that  casual  manner,  but  he  never 
tries  to  impress  you  with  any  of  it.  It's — 
well,  it's  refreshing! 

"They  always  say  he's  relaxed.  He  is.  So 
relaxed  he  could  he  poured  on  pancakes  is  the 
way  someone  put  it.  That  made  PeiTy  laugh, 
and  probably  comes  as  close  to  describing 
his  special  kind  of  casualness  as  anything 
could.  .  .  .  They  say  he's  a  really   nice  guy.   He 
is.  .  .  .  That  he  really  must  believe  there 
is  enough  of  everything  {Continued  on  page  79) 

The  Perry  Como  Show  (both  color  and  black-and-white) 
is  seen  on  NBC-TV,  Sat.,  8  to  9  P.M.  EST,  for  Gold  Seal 
Co.,  International  Cellucotton,  Noxzema  Chemical,  Radio 
Corp.  ol  America,  Sperry  &  Hutchinson,  and  Sunbeam. 


Perry  loves  everybody — especially  children.  Nothing  makes 
liinn  happier  than  a  chance  to  showcase  such  promising  young- 
sters as  organist  Glenn    Derringer  and   singer   Brenda    Lee. 


Grown-up  guest  stars — like  popular  Julius  La  Roso,  right — 
also  know  that  they  will  always  get  all  the  best  of  it  from 
Como  and  the  "wonderful  gang  who  help  put  on  the  show." 


57 


IFXJIV 


That's  how  Perry  Como  describes 


it. 


hut  it  takes  a  lot  of  know-how  to 


relax — and  do  a.  superlative  job,  too 


By  ALICE  FRANCIS 


ALL  OF  US  were  happy  with  The  Perry  Como 
Show  last  year,"  a  man  who  works  with 
Perry  was  saying  recently.   "But  we  just 
didn't  know  then  how  good  it  could  get.  We 
have  been  even  happier  with  it  this  year." 

"Yes.  And,  while  all  those  nice  stories  people 
write  about  Perry  are  true,"  a  girl  co-worker 
added,  "still,  they  don't  tell  half  enough.   Perry 
has  the  kind  of  charm  that  is  hard  to  put 
down  on  paper.   He's  easy.   He's  helpful  to 
many  people,  without  making  a  big  deal  of  it. 
He's  a  very  hard  worker  and  a  thinker, 
underneath  that  casual  manner,  but  he  never 
tries  to  impress  you  with  any  of  it.  It's — 
well,  it's  refreshing! 

"They  always  say  he's  relaxed.  He  is.  So 
relaxed  he  could  be  poured  on  pancakes  is  the 
way  someone  put  it.  That  made  Pen-y  laugh, 
and  probably  comes  as  close  to  describing 
his  special  kind  of  casualness  as  anything 

could They  say  he's  a  really  nice  guy.  He 

is.  .  .  .  That  he  really  must  believe  there 

is  enough  of  everything  {Continued  on  page  79) 

The  Perry  Como  Show  (both  color  and  black-and-white) 
is  seen  on  NBC-TV,  Sat.,  8  to  9  P.M.  EST,  for  Gold  Seal 
Co.,  International  Cellucotton,  Noxzema  Chemical,  Radio 
Corp.  of  America,  Sperry  &  Hutchinson,  and  Sunbeam. 


Perry  loves  everybody — especially  children.  Nothing  makes 
"him  happier  than  o  chance  to  showcase  such  pronnising  young- 
sters as  organist  Glenn   Derringer  and   singer   Brenda   Lee. 


Grown-up  guest  stars-like  popular  Julius  Lo  Rosa  r.ght- 
olso  know  that  they  will  always  get  all  the  best  of  ,t  from^ 
Como  and  the  "wonderful  gang  who  help  put  on  the  show. 


■-!3»%^- 


^frnF : 


■^SS:^- 


^^iw^^^^ 


Versatile  Loretta  can  play  such 
demanding  roles  as  the  historic 
Queen  Nefertiti  of  old  Egypt  .  .  . 


Be  equally  effective  as  a  sports- 
minded  modern  miss,  coaching  Jerry 
Cohen  and  Ray  Ferrell  at  baseball  .  . . 


Or  touch  the  heart  in  a  love  scene 
with  Craig  Stevens,  one  of  the  stars 
playing  opposite  hec,on  her  big  show. 


Beauty  to  dazzle  the  eye  .  .  . 

Warmth  to  melt  the  heart  .  .  . 
Talent  to  enchant  the  mind  .  .  . 


By  BUD  GOODE 

LORETTA  Young,  who  has  just  been  voted  your 
■  favorite  TV  dramatic  actress  for  the  fourth 
consecutive  year,  is  a  star  among  stars.    Performing 
since  she  was  four,  she  has  starred  in  eighty-seven 
motion  pictures — and,  in  four  brief  seasons  on 
television,  more  than  one  hundred  teleplays.    And,  in 
Loretta's  case,  quality  goes  with  quantity;  She's  the 
only  Hollywood  performer  to  have  earned  the 
plaudits  from  members  of  both  the  motion-picture 
and  television  Academies — Loretta  has  both  an 
"Oscar"  and  an  "Emmy." 

But  Loretta  is  a  credit- giver,  and  automatically 
shares  the  praise  lavished  on  her,  saying  it  is  because 
she  works  with  "so  many  to  whom  I  owe  so  much." 
Her  memory  of  others'  helpfulness,  her  gratitude 
for  lessons  learned,  is  precise.   Those  who  inspire  her 
expressions  of  appreciation  (Continued  on  page  82) 

The  Loretta  Young  Show  is  seen  on  NBC-TV,  Sun.,  10  P.M.  EST, 
sponsored  by  The  Procter  &  Gamble  Co.  for  Tide,  Camay  and  Gleam. 


FAVORrTE  TV  DRAMATIC  ACTRESS 


Behind  the  TV  scenes:  Above,  with  actor  John  Newland 
on  location  at  Malibu.  Below,  with  her  cinematography 
director,  Norbert  Brodine,  looking  at  the  day's  rushes. 


59 


/^ 


•^*    ^ 


^ 


Lux  Video  Theater  version  of  "One  Sunday  Afternoon"  scrambled  two  fannous 
show-business  teams,  casting  Gordon  MacRae  and  Mary  Healy  (Mrs.  Hayes)  as  a 
married   couple — Sheila   Stevens   (Mrs.   MacRae)   and    Peter   Lind    Hayes,    ditto! 


60 


The  best  of  past  and  future  combine 
to  make  a  very  entertaining  present 


DRAMA  in  the  grand  tradition,  in  one  of  network 
broadcasting's  oldest  traditions  .  .  .  almost  a 
quarter-century   of   "live"   full-hour   plays   based 
on  great  motion-picture  scenarios,  enacted  by  the 
film  colony's  most  brilliant  stars.  .  .  . 

It  all  began  with  Lux  Radio  Theater,  which  was 
already  a  long-established  institution  when  this 
magazine's  annual  polls  were  inaugurated  in  1947.  Radio 
Theater  proved  its  supremacy  then  by  winning  our 
first  drama  Award  .  .  .  and  went  on  to  set  a  record 
never  equalled,  on  either  radio  or  TV,  by  capturing 
readers'  votes  as  evening-drama  favorite  for  eight 
years — plus  gold  medals  as  "best  program  on  the  air" 
during  its  last  two  seasons. 

Modern  and  streamlined,  Lux  Video  Theater  now 
carries  on  its  older  sister's  best  traditions,  even  to 
capturing  your  votes  as  favorite  evening  drama  on  TV! 
And — just  as  in  radio  days — ^movie  stars  afraid  of  the 
"new"  medium  (as  they  once  feared  the  little  black 
microphones  and  bare  studios  of  the  early  1930's)  have 
felt  happier  and  more  secure,  making  their 
television  debuts  on  Video  Theater. 

They  know  that,  as  in  the  past,  there  will  be  top  scripts 
and  direction,  as  well  as  the  production  values  possible 
only  to  a  major  TV  operation.   They  welcome  the 
freshness  of  ideas,  the  willingness  to  experiment 
constructively  .  .  .  not  only  has  many  a  Hollywood 
luminary  re-created  an  Oscar -winning  role,  but  there 
have  also  been  many  who  got  a  chance  to  prove  other 
talents  in  parts  for  which  a  "type-conscious" 
industry  had  never  even  tested  them. 

This  season,  the  big  news  has  been  increased  emphasis 
on  "originals"  .  .  .  regular  telecasts  in  both  color 
and  black-and-white  .  .  .  the  addition  of  musicals  to  the 
previously  all-dramatic  line-up  .  .  .  and  the  signing 
of  filmdom's  "hottest"  musical  actor  as  both  permanent 
host  and  frequent  performer — the  acquisition  of 
Gordon  MacRae  in  this  capacity  has  been  another 
forward  step  for  both  an  ever  improving  program 
and  a  rapidly  rising  star. 

"It's  one  of  the  most  satisfying  assignments  I've  ever 
undertaken,"  says  Gordon.  Judging  by  his  enthusiasm, 
he  might  well  become  as  permanent  a  part  of  the 
program's  grand  old  tradition  as  announcer  Ken 
Carpenter — ^whose  association  with  Lux  doings  dates 
back  deep  in  the  history  of  Radio  Theater  itself! 

Lux  Video  Theater  is  seen  on  NBC-TV  (in  both  color  and  black- 
and-white),  Thursday,  from  10  to  11  P.M.  EST,  for  Lux,  Wlsk, 
Pepsodent,  Imperial  Margarine  and  other  Lever  Brothers  products. 

FAVORITE  TV  EVENING  DRAMA 


And  all-time  greats  who  helped  make  Holl/- 
wood  history  .  .  .  such  as  the  musical-movie 
team  of  Nelson  Eddy — Jeanet+e  MacDonald. 


61 


■^Mr'* 


t^ 


Bob  Crosby's  femme  soloists,  Joan  O'Brien  (left)  and 
Carol  Richards  (right)  are  occasionally  joined  by  his 
singing  daughter,  Cathy,  when  her  school  work  permits. 


They  knew  what  you  wanted 


The  Bob  Crosby  Shoiv  found  the  way 
to  offer  song,  human  interest — and  the 
kind  of  relaxation  which  is  just  what 
the  doctors  ordered  for  your  happiness 

By  EUNICE  FIELD 


SUCCESS  is  a  tree  of  many  branches.    It  has 
certainly  been  the  great  "money  tree"  for  some. 
But  in  the  case  of  George  Robert  Crosby, 
that  king  of  Bobcats,  it  happens  to  be  more  than 
just  that.    It  has  become  a  tree  rooted  in  the 
heart  of  a  crucial  public  need.    That  need,  born  of 
the  fury  of  modern  times,  is  for  an  easy,  pleasant 
art  ofj  relaxation.    It  would  seem  that  the  youngest 
of  the  Crosby  brothers  has  come  up  with  the 
perfe^  formula  for  that  purpose. 

Any  afternoon,  from  Monday  to  Friday,  Bob  can 
be  seen  over  CBS-TV,  singing,  conducting  his 
band,  dancing,  interviewing  guests,  wisecracking, 
pushing  on  props,  doing  commercials,  acting  as  emcee 
for  his  troupe  of  talented  performers — and  doing 
it  all  with  a  smooth,  suave,  (Continued  on  page  84) 

The  Bob   Crosby  Show  is  seen  over   CBS-TV,   Monday  through 
Friday,  from  3:30  to  4  P.M.   EST,  under  multiple  sponsorship. 


Informality  is  the  show's  keynote.  Only  The  Modernaires — 
left  to  right,  Fran  Sco+t,  Paula  Kelly,  Hal  Dickinson,  John 
Drake,  Dick  Ca+hcart — get  a  chance  to  rehearse  their  lively 
precision-singing  nunnbers  before  actual  day  of  the  program. 


Earl  Grant  got  on-the-air  audition — and  won  recording 
contract! — when  his  U.S.C.  classnnate,  Joan  Southern, 
acted  as  "Good  Guy"  and  brought  hinn  to  Bob's  notice. 


"Good  Guy"  Gene  Shernnan  (next  to  Bob)  introduced  view- 
ers to  kindly  German  shepherd.  Flash — "guide  dog"  for 
Teddy,   blind   pet  of  the   David   Ledermans  and   son   Duffy. 


BRAVE 
New  World 

For  Jeannie  Carson,  Americans 
a  wonderful  place.  But  people  are 
people  everyivheret  and  she 
knows  ivhat — and  whom — she  likes ! 


Hey,  Jeannie!  brings  the  British-born  Miss  Carson 
to  the  heart  of  New  York  City,  v/ith  Allen  Jenkins  as 
a  friendly  cabbie,  and  Jane  Dulo  as  his  sister.  Real 
life  has  been  just  as  much  an  adventure — and  almost 
as  comical — to  Jeannie  and  her  husband.  Bill  Redmond. 


64 


BEST  NEW  STAR  ON  TELEVISION 

Jeannie's  frank  about  her  tastes,  her  moods,  and  herself. 


JEANNIE  Carson  burst  into  living  rooms  all  over  the 
country,  via  television,  just  a  few  short  months  ago. 
She  was  an  instant  success.  Her  big-eyed,  lilting  effer- 
vescence is  the  same  in  real  or  reel  life.    She  is  a  gray- 
eyed,  petite  (five-foot-two),  bright  red-haired  bundle 
of   charming   nervous   energy.     She   is   naturally   out- 
going . .  .  but  deeply  sensitive.  She  is  acutely  conscious 
of  atmosphere  .  .  .  and  colors.     If  something  is  wrong, 
she  has  an  internal  tizzy.  "I  get  very  jumpy-nervous. 
I   drive   everybody   else   mad   by   moving   constantly." 
Also,  she  explains  solemnly,  "I  perch.  I  can  perch  on 
the  very  edge  of  a  straight-back  chair  for  hours." 

She  is  happily  married  to  Bill  Redmond,  an  enter- 
tainer in  his  own  right,  who  now  is  her  associate 
producer,  adviser  and  father  confessor.    He  has  a  fasci- 
nating insight  into  his   provocative   little   wife,   and 
their  mutual  admiration  society  is  a  delight  to  behold. 
Both  English  born  and  bred,  their  humor  speeds  across 
a  room  in  clipped  quips. 

"I  should  like,"  Jeannie  says  with  a  twinkle,  "to  say 
everything  in  one  fell  swoop.    I  hate  hats,  never  wear 
'em,  except  to  protect  my  head,  usually  in  the  rain.    I 
can't  sit  in  the  sun.    I  burn  like  mad  and  even  come 
up  with  a  rash  under  the  skin.    I  prefer  trousers.    I'm 
a  bug  about  comfort.    I  hate  to  dress  up  and,  when 
I  do,  it's  invariably  a  tailored  rig.     I  will  go  to  great 
lengths  not  to  dress!" 

"Ouch!"   groaned   her   hep   and   handsome   husband. 
"You  have  now  alienated  the  dress  and  hat  designers! 
You  want  to  try  for  one  more?" 

"Ah,  now  really,"  the  wide-eyed  Jeannie  protests,  "the 
American  woman  has  a  beautiful  mind  of  her  own 
and  she's  not  about  to  change  her  way  of  thinking 
because  of  what  I  do.     As  a   (Continued  on  page  76) 

Hey,  Jeannie!  is  seen  on  CBS-TV,  Sat.,  9:30  P.M.  EST,  for  Dash, 
Drene  and  Crest  (Procter  &  Gamble)  and  Chesterfield  Cigarettes. 


FAVORITE  RADIO  WESTERN  STAR 
FAVORITE  RADIO  WESTERN  PROGRAM 

Gunsmoke  stars  Conrad  as  Marshal   Dillon  of  Dodge  City. 


WESTERN  by  classification,  Gunsmoke  is  more  truly  a 
dramatic  series  which  pays  allegiance  to  the  basic 
integrity  of  human  beings  in  any  period  or  place.    It  has 
that  quality  which  producer-director  Norman 
Macdonnell  calls  "honesty/'  and  which  star  William 
Conrad  calls  "realism."    As  Conrad  says  of  the  character 
he  portrays,  "Matt  Dillbn  is  neither  hero  nor  villain, 
but  a  human  being.    The  best  of  us  are  sometimes 
ashamed  of  our  thoughts,  and  there  are  times  when  the 
worst  of  us  can  be  proud  of  our  deeds.    Matt  Dillon  is 
no  different.     He  is  a  law-enforcement  officer  who 
doesn't  like  killing.  He  hates  the  {Continued  on  page  90) 

Gunsmoke  is  heard  twice  on  CBS  Radio — Sun.,  6:30  P.M.,  repeated 
Sat.,  12:30  P.M.— both  EST,  sponsored  by  L&M  Filter  Cigarettes. 


WILD 

Old  West 

William  Conrad  and  the  creators 
of  Gunsmoke  turn  an  honest,  probing 
searchlight  on  a  highly  dramatic 
but  very  real  period  in  our  history 


Realism  is  their  watchword.  Above,  producer  Norman 
Macdonnell  with  actors  Howard  McNear  ("Doc"),  Parley 
Baer  (Chester)  and  Bill  Conrad  (Matt  Dillon).  Georgia 
Ellis  as  saloon-hostess  Kitty — below,  with  Matt  and 
Chester — has  the  only  regularly  featured  fenninine  role. 


OfF-mike  (left),  Conrad's  an  outdoor  man  with  many 
indoor  hobbies — including  his  wife  Junie's  cooking! 


65 


THE  ROMANCE 

OF  HELEN  TRENT 


Tormented  by  her  love  for  Gil  and  by  his  agonizing 
doubts,  Helen  saw  a  ray  of  sunshine:  Perhaps,  with 
lovable  Shari  and  her  attractive  uncle,  Kurt  .  .  . 


H. 


Lelen  woke  early — ^too  early.  It  was  dawn:  A 
rose-red  dawn  with  innumerable  tranquil  sounds  wak- 
ing with  the  light.  There  was  a  breeze  stirring  the  cur- 
tains of  her  room.  It  was  a  new  day  in  which  to  start 
all  over  again.  But  Helen  found  herself  wistfully  com- 
paring this  with  other  dawnings,  when  life  had  seemed 
quite  simple  .  .  .  and  what  one  should  do  quite  clear 
.  .  .  and  when  there  were  no  complexities.  In  the  first 
light  of  a  brand-new  day,  one  ought  to  be  able  to  think 
very  clearly  and  get  everything  quite  straight. 

For  instance,  Gil  .  .  .  but  she  exerted  a  mental  effort. 
She  would  not  think  of  him  just  yet.  To  love  as  she  and 
Gil  did,  and  yet  be  vmable  to  surround  themselves  with 
that  love  so  that  nothing  else  mattered.  .  .  .  She'd  told 
Gil  she'd  marry  him — as  an  assurance  of  the  depth  and 
permanence  of  her  love.  But  Gil  had  been  through  too 
much  that  rasped  his  pride.  He  couldn't  believe  him- 
self fortimate  any  longer.  He  couldn't  believe  the  love 
she  bore  him  was  as  deep  or  as  great  as  she  knew  it  to 
be.  He  tortured  himself,  like  a  man  seeing  heaven  be- 
fore him  yet  not  daring  to  enter  it,  for  fear  it  would 
vanish  at  his  touch.  And  he  tortured  Helen,  too.  There 
were  times  when  it  seemed  that,  from  sheer  weariness, 
she  would  cease  to  try  for  the  joy  that  she  knew  she 
and  Gil  could  have  together.  But  she  knew  it  would  be 
happiness  to  serve  him  in  every  possible  way — that 
yachting  accident,  she  suspected,  had  left  effects  he 
denied.  And  she  could  find  a  sort  of  mystic  rapture  in 
soothing  even  those  dreadful  moods  when  he  did  not 
believe  in  anything  or  anybody,  not  even  himself.  If 
only  she  and  Gil  .  .  . 

But  this  was  early  morning,  and  to  think  about  Gil 
in  this  fashion  was  a  disheartening  way  to  begin  the 
day.  She  tried  to  fix  her  mind  on  something  else.  There 
was  Kurt,  for  example — ^Kurt  Bonine — and  his  niece 
Shari.  Kurt  was  a  ha'rd  man,  but  he  foimd  her  attrac- 


tive. He'd  shown  it.  Not  over-insistently,  but  at  least 
he  was  not  tormented  by  intangibles  like  Gil.  Gil  could 
not  believe  that  the  happiness  he  longed  for  could 
actually  be.  He'd  feel  he  had  done  Helen  a  monstrous 
injury  if  she  married  him  and  later  regretted  it.  He 
frantically  feared  she  would.  But  Kurt  .  .  . 

Helen  stirred  uneasily.  She  did  not  want  to  think  of 
Kurt  and  Gil  together,  again.  She'd  meant  to  think  of 
Shari.  And  Shari  could  be  thought  of  without  any 
unease  at  all.  Helen  glanced  at  the  clock.  It  was  still 
very  early.  She  would  think  about  Shari  for  a  little 
whUe — tenderly  and  perhaps  a  bit  amused — and  then 
meet  the  day  with  composure.  Shari  was  only  a  little 
bit  of  a  problem.  A  touching  one,  because  she  admired 
Helen  so  deeply.  She  had  no  mother  and  sought  blindly 
for  someone  more  mature  to  give  her  the  affection  she 
needed  so  desperately  and  the  feeling  of  security  she 
needed  even  more.  She  worshipped  Helen.  And  when 
a  girl  like  Shari,  only  seventeen,  wholly  and  openly 
adores  one,  one  wants  to  be  very  careful  not  to  hurt 
her.  .  .  .  Helen  smiled  a  little  as  she  thought  of  Shari. 
She  almost  stopped  thinking  of  Gil  altogether. 

At  breakfast,  with  Agatha,  she  cheerfully  assured 
herself  that  this  would  be  one  day,  when,  with  Gil 
away,  she  would  draw  back  from  the  problem  that  was 
the  greatest  of  many  in  her  life.  She  would  rest  her 
mind  and  her  feelings  from  the  frustration  of  emo- 
tional stalemate.  She  would  not  let  herself  think  any- 
thing about  Gil — except  that  she  loved  him,  and  he 
loved  her,  and  therefore  it  must  all  come  out  right  in 
the  end.  But,  over  the  second  cup  of  coffee,  Agatha  said 
briskly,  "You  look  well  today,  Helen.  You  look  rested. 
It  seems  to  be  good  for  you  for  Gil  to  be  away.  The 
man  practically  battens  on  your  suffering — and  it  seems 
to  me  that  he  thrives  on  his  own." 

"You  know  that's  absurd,   (Continued  on  page  86) 


The  Romance  Of  Helen  Trent,  CBS  Radio,  M-F,  12:30  P.M.  EST,  is  sponsored  by  Lever  Brothers,  Scott  Paper  Company,  Campana,  and 
others.  Marian  Russell  and  star  Julie  Stevens  are  pictured  on  the  opposite  page,  in  their  radio  roles  as  Shari  (left)   and  Helen  Trent. 


FAVORITE  RADIO  DAYTIME  DRAMA 


Shari's  joy  faded.  "What's  the  matter?"  she 
cried,  as  Helen  numbly  clutched  the  telegram. 


■liM^iS^eJS^- 


FAVORITE   RADIO   DRAMATIC  ACTOR 


Sandy  Becker  stars  as  Young  Dr.  Malone,  over  CBS 
Radio,  M-P,  at  1 :30  P.M.  EST,  sponsored  by  Lever 
Brothers,  Scott  Paper  Conapany,  Campana,  and  others. 


As  Young  Dr.  Malone  or  youthful 
Mr.  Becker,  Sandy's  innate  sympathy 
is  as  big  as  his  inborn  talents 

By  FRANCESCA  WILLIAMS 

AFTER  NINE  YEARS  of  being  Young  Dr.  Malone 
on  CBS  Radio,  Sandy  Becker  still  finds 
his  starring  role  absorbing.    "Jerry  Malone  is  a 
purposeful  man,  with  great  courage,"  Sandy 
says.    "A  fine  doctor  and  a  good  person. 
Sensitive,  kind,  but  uncompromising  where  his 
ideals  are  concerned.   An  exciting  man  to  do." 

That  Sandy  portrays  this  man  so  perfectly 
is  evidenced  by  the  overwhelming  listener 
approval,  but  it  may  not  be  as  well  known  that 
Sandy  himself  is  something  of  the  same  sort  of 
idealist.    A  purposeful  young  man,  in  a  hurry  to 
do  many  of  the  things  he  feels  need  doing.   A 
man  who  is  sensitive  to  {Continued  on  page  83) 


Sandy  and  Ruth  Becker's  own  brood  includes  Joyce, 
Curtis,  and  Annelle — reading  upstairs — and  that's 
Tanko,  down  in  front.  Below,  Sandy  shows  his  trio 
some  fascinating  dolls  he  brought  back  fronn  his  big 
good-will  tour,  visiting  children  of  South  Anaerica. 


f 


r 


Humor  With  a  Heart 


(Continued  from  page  43) 
American  folklore,  it  is  because  they  are 
iterally  written  on  air.  That  a  script,  for 
?ran,  is  a  few  notes — jotted  down  while 
axiing  to  the  studio — is  a  loss  to  our 
iterature  of  humor. 

Spontaneously    created,    both   her   Aunt 
Tanny   of   Don   McNeill's   Breakfast   Club 
ind  her  Fran,  of  Burr  Tillstrom's  Kukla, 
Fran  And  Ollie,  continue  to  be  spontane- 
ous     creations.      Burr,      who      originated 
"Kukla,    Ollie    and    all    the   players,"    has 
always  dated  their  teaming  with  Fran  back 
to  a   war-bond   rally   on   Michigan   Ave- 
nue  in    Chicago.      As    he    tells    it,    "Ollie, 
lever  one  to  pass  up  a  pretty  girl,  said, 
Hello,  cutie!'  Fran,  never  one  to  pass  up 
quick  answer,  said,  'Hello,  yourself.'  Be- 
sause  she   accepted   them   as   a  child   ac- 
!epts  them,  she  gave  them  reality.  On  a 
lay-to-day  basis,  she  is  the  Dorothy  who 
irent  to  Oz,  the  Alice  in  a  modern  Won- 
lerland.      But — most    important    to    me — 
he   has    the    imagination    and    the    talent 
to  join  us  in  making  up  the  story  as  we 
*o  along." 
Aunt    Fanny,    too,    sprang    full-grown 
rfrom  Fran's  lively  imagination.    Fran,  the 
busy   young  girl   of  all   work   in   a  small 
Iowa    radio    station,    was    rushing    past    a 
man-in-the-street     broadcast.      The     an- 
nouncer caught  her   arm.     "Here's   Aunt 
Fanny,"  he  said.     "Say  something  for  the 
folks."     In    developing    the    character    of 
Aunt  Fanny,   since  then,  Fran  has  given 
her  small-town  spinster  a  third  dimension. 
Her    sharp    observations    concern    today's 
world.     They  become  more  searching  be- 
cause   Aunt    Fanny's    clothes,    her    collo- 
quialisms and  her  viewpoint  are  those  of 
a  by-gone  day. 

She  has  a  word  for  every  occasion. 
Peering  around  a  Breakfast  Club  audience, 
she  inquired,  "Mister  McNeill,  where  is 
that  lady  that  fell  in  the  furnace?"  Don 
McNeill  pointed  her  out.  "Well,"  re- 
marked Aunt  Fanny,  "I  always  said  there's 
no  limit  to  what  some  folks  will  do  to 
have  a  hot  time  in  the  old  town  tonight." 
Aunt  Fanny's  stories  often  spring  from 
the  traditional  "embarrassing  moment."  A 
bake  sale  was  coming  up.  Aunt  Fanny, 
unfortimately,  had  loaned  Myrt  her  recipe 
for  pineapple  upside-down  cake.  She 
wouldn't,  for  anything,  ask  for  it  back. 
She  would,  instead,  buy  cake  mix  and 
"take  the  recipe  off  the  box." 

But  the  grocer,  too,  had  his  troubles. 
Said  Aunt  Fanny,  "That  high  water  we 
had  had  took  the  labels  off  of  everything. 
But  he  said  to  me,  he  says,  'Take  my 
word  for  it,  Fanny,  I  can  put  my  hand 
on  anything  in  this  store.'"  Aunt  Fanny 
did. 

The  cake  weighed  so  much  her  arm  was 
tired  before  she  got  it  to  the  church. 
The  auctioneer  declined  to  put  it  on  sale. 
Only  then  did  Aunt  Fanny  discover  that 
her  cake  mix  was  actually  Mrs.  Doolittle's 
Handy  Household  Cement.  The  pine- 
apple, too,  was  suspect. 

It  is  characteristic  of  Fran  Allison's 
philosophy  for  Aunt  Fanny  that  every 
problem  should  produce  a  minor  tri- 
umph. Aunt  Fanny's  concrete  cake 
achieved  a  certain  immortality.  "That 
was  the  day  the  cornerstone  was  being 
laid.  Jing!  if  they  didn't  put  my  cake 
right  inside.  They  did!  And  when  they 
turned  it  over,  there,  pretty  as  you 
please,  them  string  beans  spelled  out 
Welcome   straight   across   the   top." 

It  is  with  pleasure  that  TV  Radio  Mir- 
ror presents  its  Award  as  top  airwave 
comedienne  to  the  Breakfast  Club's  Aunt 
Fanny,  to  Kukla,  Fran  And  Ollie's  Fran— 
to  Fran  Alhson,  a  true  American  humor- 
ist who  is  also  a  great  lady. 


■blEHf 

WeVw 


i 


STAR 
CANDID8 


W*'ve  adidvi  some  brond 
mm  stofi  an«t  brorvd  n«w  pic- 
twtw,  darting  with  #248. 
Otecic  fh«  !«t  i>«{ow  for  youf 
favofifM.  A!f  homjsome  4x5 
photos,  en  glossy  stock,  jqst 
rif  ht  for  framing.  Send  your 
ord«r  today. 


T<»iY  nmum 


CANDIDS 


1.  Lana  Turner 

2.  Betty  Grable 

3.  Ava  Gardner 

5.  Alan  Ladd 

6.  Tyrone  Power 

7.  Gregory  Peck 
9.  Esther  Williams 

11.  Elinbctb  Taylor 

14.  Cornel  Wilde 

15.  Frank  Sinatra 

18.  Rory  Calhoun 

19.  Peter  Lawford 

2 1 .  Bob  Mitchum 

22.  Burt  Lancaster 

23.  Bing  Oosby 
25.  Dale  Evans 
27.  June  Allyson 

33.  Gene  Autry 

34.  Roy  Rogers 

35.  Sunset  Canon 

50.  Diana  Lynn 

51.  Doris  Day 

52.  Montgomery  Clifi 

53.  Richard  Widmark 

56.  Parry  Come 

57.  Bill  Holden 

66.  Gordon  MacRae 

67.  Ann  Blyth 

68.  Jeanne  Crain 

69.  Jane  Russell 
74.  John  Wayne 
78.  Audie  Murphy 
84.  Jcwof  UIgh 
86.  Farley  Granger 

91 .  John  Derek 

92.  Guy  Madison 
94.  Mario  Lanza 
103.'Scott  Brady 

105.  VicDamone 

106.  Shelley  Winters 

107.  Richard  Todd 


109.  Dean  Martin 
no.  Jerry  Lewis 
112.  Susan  Hayward 
117.  Terry  Moore 
121.  Tony  Cartl* 
124.  Gail  Davis 

127.  Piper  Laurie 

128.  Debbie  Reyaelcb 

135.  Jeff  Chandler 

136.  Rock  HndtOB 

137.  Stewart  Granger 

139.  Debra  Poqmt 

140.  Dale  Robertson 

141.  Marilyn  Monroe 

142.  Leslie  Caron 

143.  Pier  Angeli 

144.  Mitzi  Gaynor 

145.  Marlon  Brando 

146.  Aldo  Ray 

147.  Tab  Haafer 

148.  Robert  Wogaer 

149.  Russ  Tamblyn 

150.  Jeff  Hunter 
152.  MargeandGoW' 

er  Champion 

174.  Rita  Gam 

175.  Charlton  Heston 

176.  Steve  Cochran 

177.  Richard  Burton 

179.  JuUusLaRosa 

180.  Lucille  Ball 
182.  Jack  Webb 
185.  Richard  Egan 
187.  Jeff  Richards 

190.  Pat  Crowley 

191.  Robert  Taylor 

192.  Jean  Simmons 
194.  Audrey  Hepburn 
198.  Gale  Storm 
202.  George  Nader 


205.  Ann  Sothern 
207.  Eddie  Fisher 
209.  Liberace 

211.  Bob  Francis 

212.  Grace  Kelly 

213.  James  Deaa 

214.  Sheree  North 

215.  lam  Novak 

216.  Richard  Davalos 

218.  Eva  Marie  Saint 

219.  Natalie  Weed 

220.  Dewnr  Martin 

221.  Joan  Collins 

222.  Jayne  Mansfield 

223.  Sal  Mlaee 

224.  Shirlev  lones 

225.  Ehfb  Presley 

226.  Viaoria  Shaw 

227.  Teay  PerUas 

228.  Cllat  Walker 

229.  Pat  Beoae 

230.  Paul  Newman 

231.  Don  Murray 

232.  Don  Cherry 

233.  Pat  Wayne 

234.  CarroU  Baker 

235.  Anita  Ekberg 

236.  Corey  Allen 


237.  Dana  Wynter 

238.  Diana  Dors 

239.  Judy  Buscb 

240.  Patti  Page 

241.  Lawreaee  Weflc 

242.  AUce  Lon 

243.  Larry  Dean 

244.  Buddy  Merrill 

245.  Hugh  O'Brioa 

246.  Jim  Amess 

247.  Sanford  Clark 

248.  Vera  MUes 

249.  John  Saxon 

250.  Dean  Steekwell 

251.  Diane  Jergens 

252.  Warren  BerUnger 

253.  James  MacArthur 

254.  Nick  Adams 

255.  Jeha  Karr 

256.  Harrv  Belafonte 

257.  Jim  Lowe 

258.  Luana  Patten 

259.  Dennis  Hopper 

260.  Tom  Tryon 

261.  Tommy  Sands 

262.  Will  Hutdiin* 


FILL    IN    AND    MAIL 
COUPON  TODAY! 


WORLD  WIDE.  DEPT.  WG-5-S7 
1 12  Main  St..  Ossining,  N.  Y. 

I  enclose  % for  candid 

pictures  of  my  favorite  stars  and  have  circled 
the  numbers  of  the  ones  you  are  to  send  me 
by  return  mail. 


NAME. 


STREET. 


CITY. 


ZONE STATE 

Fill  out  and  mail  coupon  today.   Sand  cash' 
or  money  order.  12  pictures  for  $1;  6  for  50e. 


71 


(Continued  from  page  50) 
Bible  from  cover  to  cover,  and  could  de- 
tect a  mistake  in  a  single  word  in  the 
middle  of  a  long  sermon.  Himself  an 
evangelist,  he  believed  that  all  ministers 
would  be  glad  to  have  a  slip  of  the  tongue 
corrected,  in  quoting  from  the  Good  Book, 
and  this  was  a  service  he  often  performed 
for  other  ministers,  to  the  intense  dismay 
of  his  adopted  son,  Art. 

"He  was  a  wonderful  man,"  Art  recalls, 
"kindly-faced,  gentle  and  spiritual.  He  was 
also  completely  ingenuous,  unconscious  of 
self,  and  warm-hearted,  with  the  spirit  of 
a  child.  If  he  saw  a  strange  child  on  the 
street,  he  would  put  his  arms  around  him. 
If  he  found  a  bird  with  a  broken  wing, 
he'd  bring  it  home  and  nurse  it. 

"He  sympathized  with  everyone's  mis- 
fortunes, rejoiced  with  everyone's  good 
fortune.  Every  day  without  fail,  he  read 
the  Bible  for  five  hours."  He  also,  almost 
literally,  followed  the  injunction  to  pray 
without  ceasing.  "Though  we  were  a 
terribly  poor  family,  we  had  the  longest 
graces  of  any  family  I  ever  knew,"  Art 
continues.  "My  foster  father  could  think 
of  more  things  to  be  thankful  for  than 
anyone  else.  I  was  eighteen  before  I  tasted 
hot  food!  All  our  food  cooled  off  during 
his  prayers." 

As  a  child,  banging  the  triangle  at  re- 
vival meetings,  to  draw  crowds  to  listen 
to  his  foster  father.  Art  would  squirm 
with  embarrassment  when  the  crowd  lost 
control  of  its  emotions,  after  a  particu- 
larly moving  exhortation  by  his  dad. 

No  wonder,  later  on,  after  he  became 
the  emcee  of  Art  Linkletter's  House  Party, 
he  was  very  sympathetic,  when  he  in- 
terviewed a  minister's  son  who  said  he 
helped  his  dad  with  his  work. 

"What's  the  hardest  work  you  do?"  he 
asked  the  child. 

"Listening  to  my  father's  sermons," 
came  the  prompt  response. 

If  some  sage  emcee  had  asked  Art  the 
same  question  when  he  was  seven  or  eight, 
he  probably  would  have  gotten  the  same 
answer.  As  a  child,  Art  couldn't  under- 
stand the  world  of  complete  spirituality 
in  which  Reverend  Linkletter  lived  and 
breathed.  "Like  any  growing  child,"  he 
said,  "I  resented  the  fact  that  I  had  to 
read  the  Bible  aloud  for  hours  at  a  time 
while  other  kids  were  playing,  and  that 
I  couldn't  go  to  movies  to  see  Charles  Ray 
in  'Country  Bumpkin'  like  other  kids.  It 
took  me  years  to  realize  the  value  of  some 
of  the  hardships  I  suffered  as  a  child." 

At  a  very  early  age,  Art  learned  the 
value  of  money,  and  the  necessity  of  earn- 
ing it  by  hard  work.  He  was  only  seven 
when  he  first  took  up  a  collection  for  his 
father  after  a  sermon.  Soon  he  got  to  the 
point  where,  with  one  look  at  an  audience, 
he  could  tell,  almost  to  the  penny,  how 
much  he  was  likely  to  collect.  "My  foster 
father  was  the  kindest,  most  loving  man 
I  ever  knew,  but  he  had  not  the  slight- 
est knowledge  of  the  value  of  money. 

"He  never  worried  about  rent  or  food, 
for  he  was  convinced  that  the  good  Lord 
would  provide.  The  provisions  he  expected 
always  came — though  we  had  some  nar- 
row squeaks. 

"Sometimes,  when  rent  time  was  only  a 

week   away,  he  would  suddenly  feel  the 

urge  to  preach.  Saying,  'Don't  worry,'  he'd 

hitchhike  off  for  a  couple  of  months."  At 

such  times,  Art  and  his  foster  mother  were 

J    sometimes    left    to    fend    for    themselves. 

V    "Some  church  or  group  that  knew  about 

f^    us  would  come  to  our  rescue.  Sometimes 

I'd  go  to  an  old  folks'  home. 

"Nobody  worried,  so  I  never  worried 
when  I  was  a  child,"  Art  observes.  '"To- 


Call  it  Faith 

day,  as  a  carryover  from  childhood,  I  still 
don't  worry — though  I  take  steps  to  pre- 
vent things  from  going  wrong.  I  don't  feel 
that  everything  will  come  to  me.  To  get 
anywhere,  you  have  to  do  the  work  your- 
self. In  those  days,  my  foster  father  didn't 
necessarily  think  so.  We  didn't  exactly 
live — we  existed." 

When  Art  discovered,  at  eleven,  that 
he  was  adopted,  he  was  momentarily  be- 
wildered. He  needed  desperately  to  feel 
that  he  belonged  to  someone  or  something. 

"Wonderful  as  my  foster  parents  were, 
they  were  in  their  late  forties  when  they 
adopted  me,  in  their  sixties  by  the  time  I 
was  in  my  teens.  My  foster  father  was 
handicapped,  too,  by  the  fact  that  he  had 
a  wooden  leg,  and  so  couldn't  participate 
in  active  sports  with  me.  We  had  no  point 
of  contact,  outside  our  home." 

Some  of  the  youngsters  Art  knew  were 
pretty  wild.  After  all,  the  Linkletters 
moved  some  twelve  times  in  six  years — 
much  too  often  for  the  family  to  estab- 
lish any  kind  of  roots.  Not  that  Art  was 
any  Dead  End  kid!  But  he  knew  a  lot  of 
boys  who  weren't  above  stealing  hub  caps 
or  other  kinds  of  property.  He  himself 
never  stole.  He'd  been  too  much  impressed 
by  his  father's  reading  of  the  Command- 
ments. But  he  often  felt  adrift. 

Just  about  that  time.  Art  met  David 
Bomberger,  now  general  secretary  of  the 
Riverside  YMCA.  "I  don't  know  what 
would  have  happened  to  me,"  Art  says 
frankly,  "if  I  hadn't  met  him.  He  was 
young  enough  to  understand  my  problems 
and  to  help  me  find  an  outlet  for  my 
energy."  David  became  a  sort  of  father 
away  from  home  to  young  Art.  He  en- 
couraged him  to  become  a  Friendly  Indian, 
a  Y  group  somewhat  similar  to  variotis 
Boy  Scout  groups.  Through  David  Bom- 
berger and  the  Y,  Art  became  interested 
in  camping  and  physical  education.  Pre- 
viously, he'd  played  basketball  with  vari- 
ous church  leagues;  now  he  learned  to 
play  the  game  better  and  more  earnestly 
than  ever.  "Every  child,"  he  says,  "feels 
that  he  wants  to  belong  to  a  gang.  Every 
kid  has  to  belong  to  one,  children  are  the 
greatest  joiners.  They  want  to  earn  re- 
cognition. They  earn  it  either  by  belong- 
ing to  some  group  like  the  Boy  Scouts  or 
Friendly  Indians  and  winning  merit  badges, 
or  else  they  join  some  gang  and  get  rec- 
ognition for  how  many  hubcaps  they 
have  knocked  over." 

Art  believes  that  those  who  say,  "There 
are  no  bad  children,  only  bad  parents," 
may  be  right.  Once  he  was  at  a  cocktail 
party  where  all  the  guests  seemed  to  be 
having  a  wonderful  time.  Art  and  his 
wife  were  enjoying  themselves,  too.  But, 
with  Art,  it's  almost  automatic  to  talk 
about  his  five  children,  so  he  happened  to 
mention  casually  what  some  of  his  young- 
sters were  doing  that  evening.  The  man 
to  whom  he  was  speaking  looked  surprised. 
"You  mean  to  say  that,  even  when  you're 
at  a  party,  you  know  what  each  of  your 
youngsters  is  doing?"  he  said. 

"Sure,"  said  Art. 

"Well,  I'U  be  darned.  My  kids  are  like 
wild  horses.  I  never  know  from  one  hour 
to  the  next  what  they'll  be  doing  or  where 
they'll  be." 

Art's  fellow  guest  was  a  man  from  a 
prominent  social  family,  who  had  brought 
up  his  children  with  the  help  of  nurses 
and  governesses.  He  honestly  believed  that 
he  had  given  them  every  advantage.  But 
he'd  failed  to  give  them  one  important 
advantage — the  knowledge  that  he  cared 
where  they  were  and  what  they  did. 

Art  and  his  wife,  you  may  be  sure,  al- 
ways know  where  their  children  are  each 
day,   and   make   it   clear   to   the    children 


that  they  care  tremendously.  Though  the 
youngsters  range  in  age  from  eight-year- 
old  Diane  to  nineteen-year-old  Jack,  they 
enjoy  sharing  the  news  of  their  activities 
with  their  mother  and  dad. 

At  one  time  Art  Linkletter  persuaded  a 
professor  with  a  Ph.D.  degree  in  psychol- 
ogy to  appear  on  one  of  his  programs  and 
answer  questions  from  the  audience.  One 
mother  put  up  her  hand  to  wail: 
"My  children  won't  obey  me.  What  shall 
I  do  about  it?  You  can't  just  keep  scold- 
ing them." 

"Yes,  it  is  a  terrible  problem,"  said  the 
psychologist,  "and  one  that  almost  all 
parents  face.  We  haven't  come  up  with 
any  scientific  answer  yet  on  how  to  get 
a  child  to  mind." 

"I  hope  you'll  pardon  me  for  giving  an 
unscientific  answer,"  said  Art.  "I'm  no 
authority  on  bringing  up  children,  but  my 
wife  and  I  are  trying,  as  best  we  can,  to 
raise  five  of  them.  And  we've  come  to  the 
conclusion  that  a  child  wants  to  know 
there  is  authority,  with  strengths  and 
limits.  If  a  child  never  knows  how  far  he 
can  push  his  parents — or  if  he  can  always 
push  them  around — ^he  has  no  feeling  of 
being   protected   or  watched   over." 

Ihere  are  some  who  imagine  that,  where 
there's  plenty  of  money  in  a  family,  it's  a 
cinch  to  bring  up  children.  Not  so,  says 
Art.  "Children  have  a  better  chance  of 
growing  up  well  if  they  do  not  come  from 
wealthy  homes.  One  of  the  greatest  things 
in  life  is  work.  But  there  is  a  lot  of  differ- 
ence between  work  that's  necessary  and 
work  that's  invented,  just  to  keep  rich 
children  busy." 

As  a  youngster,  Art  had  to  work.  At 
eight,  he  had  a  newspaper  route  and 
mowed  lawns.  In  his  teens,  he  operated 
a  switchboard  at  the  Y,  and  acted  as 
counsellor  at  summer  camps.  Because  of 
his  foster  father's  complete  absorption  in 
spiritual  matters,  there  were  times  when, 
if  Art  hadn't  worked,  he  wouldn't  have 
eaten. 

To  try  to  duplicate  such  conditions  in 
the  lives  of  his  children  would  be  prepos- 
terous. Still,  Art  has  taught  his  children 
respect  for  work  by  a  carefully  worked 
out  system  of  allowances,  chores  and 
privileges.  Each  child  is  held  somewhat 
responsible  for  his  own  room.  "Occasion- 
ally," Art  explains,  "We  have  inspections 
and  awards.  There  are  such  varied  awards 
that  each  child  is  given  a  chance  to  earn 
one. 

For  instance,  at  Christmas  time,  each  has 
his  own  Christmas  tree,  which  he  deco- 
rates himself.  Then  awards — in  the  form 
of  small  gifts — are  given  for  the  most 
original  tree,  the  prettiest  tree,  and  what- 
ever other  categories  Art  and  his  wife 
can  think  of.  The  young  Linkletters  are 
brought  up  in  an  atmosphere  of  faith 
tempered  with  good  humor. 

Art  believes  that  children  should  be  ex- 
posed to  religion,  but  that  it  may  some- 
times be  unwise  to  require  them  to  spend 
an  inordinate  amount  of  time  at  church, 
as  he  did  during  his  boyhood.  "If  my 
parents  had  been  musicians  and  insisted 
on  my  playing  piano  for  four  or  five  hours 
a  day,"  he  says  frankly,  "I  would  have 
rebelled  against  music  as  a  child. 

"Today,  I  believe  that  everyone  should 
have  the  right  to  believe  what  he  wants 
to  believe.  My  children  are  given  a  chance 
to  make  up  their  own  minds,  but  they 
are  also  given  every  chance  to  be  exposed 
to  religion.  Every  Sunday,  they  go  to 
church.  Nothing  would  please  me  more 
than  to  find  that  the  children  had  dis- 
covered a  dedicated,  imaginative,  inspir- 
ing religious  teacher. 


"Personally,  I  am  sure  that  there  is  a 
God.  Members  of  different  religions  call 
Him  by  different  names.  I  have  traveled 
so  much  and  met  so  many  who  thoroughly 
believe  in  their  own  religions,  that  I  have 
great  respect  and  tolerance  for  the  beliefs 
of  others.  All  the  major  religions  boil 
down  to  half  a  dozen  rules — the  Golden 
Rvle,  in  one  form  or  another,  being  promi- 
nent among  them.  Whatever  you  do  with 
people  comes  back  to  roost  one  way  or 
another." 

Art  believes  that  the  Golden  Rule  really 
works  in  daily  life — if  you  honestly  try 
to  live  up  to  it.  "Often,"  he  says,  "indi- 
viduals forget  all  about  the  Golden  Rule 
when  it  comes  to  business.  But  it  applies 
there  just  as  much  as  anywhere  else.  You 
can't  ignore  it  just  because  you're  trying 
to  make  a  buck." 

Art  himself  has  the  well-earned  repu- 
tation of  following  the  Golden  Rule  in 
business.  Once,  a  hard-boiled  attorney 
who  has  handled  the  legal  affairs  of  many 
of  the  biggest  stars  in  show  business,  said, 
"I'd  rather  do  business  with  Art  and  John 
Guedel  (Art's  partner-producer  of  People 
Are  Funny  and  House  Party)  than  with 
anyone  else.  Not  because  they'll  let  you 
walk  over  them,  for  they  won't.  But  you 
also  know  that  they'll  never  try  to  take 
advantage  of  you — or  anyone  else." 

Offer  Art  a  chance  to  do  anything  at 
which  he's  had  little  or  no  previous  ex- 
perience but  which  might  present  a  chal- 
lenge, and  he'll  grab  it — and  let  you  name 
the  salary.  Once,  when  he  was  twenty- 
three,  holding  down  a  desirable  job  as 
announcer  at  KGB  in  San  Diego,  and  be- 
ing groomed  for  an  executive  position,  he 
left  his  well-paying,  secure  position  to 
work  with  the  Dallas  Exposition.  He  knew 
that  the  new  job  couldn't  last  more  than 
six  months. 

"How  much  are  you  going  to  get?"  his 

wife   asked.   Art   shrugged   his   shoulders. 

"I  don't  know,"  he  said.  "I  didn't  ask. 

But  I  do  know  that  this  is  a  wonderful 

opportunity  to  work  and  learn." 

Later,  when  he  was  offered  a  job  at  the 
San  Francisco  Fair,  he  again  accepted 
without  knowing  what  the  salary  was. 
"Some  people,"  he  said,  "think  of  me 
as  so  mercenary  and  so  sharp  in  business 
that  they  don't  believe  I  would  do  a  thing 
like  that.  It's  true  that,  if  I'm  asked  to 
work  as  an  emcee,  I'll  charge  a  stiff  price, 
for  I've  been  training  for  this  kind  of  work 
for   about   twenty   years,    and   know   my 


value  as  an  emcee.  But  if  I'm  offered  a 
chance  to  do  something  new  and  chal- 
lenging, I'll  do  it,  and  not  quibble  about 
how  much  I'm  paid.  When  I  was  offered  a 
role  on  the  G.  E.  Theater,  I  was  glad  to 
try  it.  When  they  asked  me  how  much  I 
wanted,  I  said,  'Whatever  you  think  I'm 
worth.  I'm  here  to  try  something  new  and 
stretch  my  talent  muscles.' " 

From  the  time  they  were  just  small  tots. 
Art  taught  his  children  that  it  isn't  ethical 
to  try  to  get  something  for  nothing,  or  to 
try  to  make  money  by  wangling  an  un- 
fair monopoly  for  yourself. 

How  does  a  father  bring  up  children  so 
as  to  accentuate  the  positive  and  elimi- 
nate the  negative?  With  five  children,  all 
of  different  temperaments.  Art  and  Mrs. 
Linkletter  discovered  while  the  children 
were  very  young  that  each  had  to  be 
handled  differently. 

"Some  children  have  to  be  spanked 
frequently;  some  should  never  be  spanked 
at  all,"  says  Art.  "In  general,  I  believe  that 
children  should  be  brought  up  with  loose 
discipline  surrounded  by  a  good  iron  fence. 
Many  mothers  and  fathers  complain  that 
children  roughhouse  all  over  the  house. 
Though  we  Linkletters,  like  most  normal 
parents,  aren't  mad  for  roughhousing,  we 
wink  at  it,  provided  the  children  curb 
their  spirits  in  three  rooms:  The  living 
room,  dining  room  and  our  bedroom. 
The  children  respect  those  boimdaries. 
When  they  come  through  the  door  to  one 
of  those  rooms,  they  start  to  walk  sedately, 
even    if    they've    been    running   till    then. 

"When  we  have  cocktail  or  dinner  par- 
ties, the  kids  are  introduced  to  all  our 
guests  and  are  permitted  to  remain  for 
about  fifteen  minutes.  At  the  end  of  that 
time,  they  know  it's  time  to  leave — and 
they  do. 

"Some  parents  tell  me  they  just  can't 
understand  how  we  can  get  the  children 
to  go  to  bed  when  they're  told  to.  This 
it  the  way  we  do  it:  We  tell  them,  'We 
want  you  with  us.  If  you  want  to  watch 
TV,  we'll  arrange  things  so  that  you  can 
be  with  us  watching  the  programs  till 
the  very  last  possible  minute.  Then,  when 
we  say  it's  time  to  go  to  bed,  you'll  know 
that  it  is — and  no  arguments.' 

"The  kids  never  argue  about  this.  If, 
occasionally,  there's  an  exceptionally  good 
program  they'd  like  to  stay  up  late  to 
hear,  they  ask  ahead  of  time,  and  we  call 
a  family  clam-bake  to  decide  whether  the 
program  is  worth  staying  up  late  for." 


I  saved  my 
MARRIAGE 

A  spade  is  called  a  spade  on  the  radio  program 
"My  True  Story".  It  brings  you  frank  stories  about 
real  people — about  their  hates  and  fears,  their  loves 
and  passions.  When  you  hear  these  dramatizations, 
you  may  easily  recognize  some  of  the  problems  that 
are  keeping  you  from  finding  happiness.  So  listen  to 
these  emotion-packed  stories.  Each  one  is  taken 
right  from  the  files  of  True  Story  Magazine. 

Tune  in  Every  Morning  to 

"MY  TRUE  STORY" 

American  Broadcasting  Stations 

"My  experience  may  change  your  whole  life."    Read  "Chained  By  Fear"  in  the 
current  issue  of  TRUE  STORY  Magazine,  now  at  all  newsstands. 


The  Linkletter  children  know  that  their 
mother  and  dad  want  them  to  hfive  fun. 
And  they  do.  They  eo  camoing  in  the  sum- 
mer, and  on  weekly  bicycle  safaris. 

Art,  with  his  wonderful  ad-lib  sense  of 
humor,  is  apt  to  pull  outrageous  gags  any 
time,  at  any  place,  including  the  dinner 
table.  For  years  a  pet  Linkletter  gag  was 
to  pretend  that  the  youngest  member  of 
the  family  had  a  "maeic  nose"  and  that, 
whenever  he  pushed  it,  the  maid  would 
appear  out  of  thin  air.  Actually,  of  course, 
Art  had  an  electric  buzzer  under  the 
table  which  he  pushed  at  the  same  time 
his  youngest  tried  out  his   "magic  nose." 

Art  has  a  triple  parlay  for  bringing  up 
children:  Faith,  humor,  and  love.  His 
faith  in  his  children  goes  so  deep  that 
once,  about  two  years  ago,  when  he,  his 
wife,  and  Jack  were  in  Paris,  he  raised  no 
objection  as  a  lady  of  the  evening  ac- 
costed Jack,  thinking  he  was  alone,  and 
persuaded  him  to  order  refreshments  for 
her  at  a  table  near  by.  In  a  few  minutes. 
Art  and  his  wife  joined  them. 

"I  was  so  confused,"  Jack  confessed 
later,  "my  conversation  was  mostly  stut- 
tered English.  For  a  few  minutes,  I  won- 
dered why  Dad  had  permitted  such  a 
situation  to  arise.  Later  on,  however,  I 
realized  that  there'd  been  method  in  my 
father's  madness.  I  was  a  young  buck  of 
seventeen  at  the  time,  and  he  figured  it 
was  time  I  learned  something  about 
life  on  the  other  side  of  the  tracks.  Dad 
drew  her  out  to  talk  about  her  life.  As  a 
result,  I  learned  more  that  evening  about 
the  seamy  side  of  Paris — and  the  other 
side,    too — than    I've    ever    learned    since. 

"I  felt  sorry  for  the  girl.  My  father  had 
enough  faith  in  me  to  believe  that  I'd 
have  a  sensible  reaction." 

When  Art  himself  was  a  teenager,  fac- 
ing the  terrific  tides  of  adolescent  prob- 
lems, his  foster  father  was  too  old  to 
guide  him,  or  to  give  him  any  advice.  So 
this  had  been  his  chance  to  do  for  his 
teen-aged  son  what  it  had  never  been 
possible  for  his  foster  father  to  do  for 
him.  Later  Jack  said  gratefully,  "He 
showed  me,  as  close  up  as  he  dared,  what 
happens  to  a  person  when  he  sinks  in  life." 
As  he  told  a  friend,  "It  was  just  one  more 
example  of  Dad's  adroit  way  of  letting  us 
find  out  things  for  ourselves."  Art  is  too 
witty  and  wise  to  hammer  home  his 
points  the  way  some  fathers  do. 

Still,  he  lets  the  children  know  that  he 
and  Mrs.  Linkletter  expect  them  to  grow 
into  the  kind  of  men  and  women  they 
have  the  potentialities  of  becoming.  Art 
has  told  them  frankly,  "Every  time  you 
do  or  say  anything  the  least  bit  out  of 
line,  you're  going  to  be  criticized,  and  so 
am  I.  Because  I've  been  on  radio  and  TV 
for  so  many  years,  I'm  considered  a  kind 
of  national  figure.  If  any  member  of  the 
family  does  something  unwise,  we'll  be 
more  severely  criticized  than  someone  else. 

"You  can  ruin  the  family  reputation  by 
doing  foolish  or  terrible  things,  hurting 
the  whole  family.  But  I  know  you  won't. 
You'll  have  to  learn  not  to  ask  for  special 
favors,  and  not  to  be  rowdy. 

"You'll  also  have  to  acquire  the  kind  of 
strength  that  enables  you  to  say  'No,'  when 
other  kids  want  you  to  do  something  you 
think  is  wrong.  Maybe  some  of  the  others 
will  say  to  you,  'If  you  don't  do  the  things 
we  tell  you  to,  you  can't  belong  to  our 
bunch.' 

"What's  so  wonderful  about  being  one 
of  a  bunch?  Even  a  banana  can  have  that 
distinction!  What  you  want  is  not  to  be 
one  of  a  bunch,  but  to  be  outstanding." 

As   Art's  friends   say,   "If  Art  had   be-    f 
come  just  one  of  a  bunch,   like  some   of    v 
the  fellows  he  knew  as  a  child,  he  might    r 
have  ended  up  in  a  penitentiary — instead 
of  as   the   happiest   and   hardest  working 
emcee  in  radio  and  TV." 

73 


"Champagne  Music" 


(Continued  from  page  39) 
my  dancing  audiences  always  look  as  if 
they  were  attending  a  Cinderella  ball.  The 
men  are  well-groomed  and  carry  them- 
selves with  pride;  the  women  move  in  an 
air  of  beauty.  The  most  beautiful  danc- 
ing gown  is,  of  course,  of  ballerina  length 
with  very  full  skirt,  but  without  hoops — a 
hoop  is  likely  to  prove  an  embarrassment 
on  a  crowded  floor.  The  bodice  should  be 
supported  by  some  version  of  strap,  in 
order  to  permit  complete  freedom  from 
self-consciousness  or  worry.  The  best 
color?  White,  I  think,  or  any  of  the  pastels. 
At  Christmas  time,  red  is  delightful,  but — 
year  around — I  would  say  that,  when  in 
doubt,  choose  white." 

It  should  be  mentioned  swiftly  that  this 
opinion  is  not  likely  to  go  unchallenged — 
not  because  there  is  any  flaw  in  the  ad- 
vice, but  simply  because  it  has  been  given 
by  Mr.  Welk.  If  you  consider  Elvis  Pres- 
ley the  most  controversial  musical  phe- 
nomenon of  the  age,  you  are  due  for  a  sur- 
prise. Mr.  Welk's  name,  introduced  into 
a  musical  discussion,  may  provoke  every- 
thing from  intemperate  speech  to  the  loud 
slamming  of  doors,  as  devotees  of  the 
choppy  beat  leave  the  room. 

The  Hollywood  Reporter  is  one  of  the 
beacons  of  show  business,  and  Leo  Guild 
is  one  of  its  most  respected  columnists. 
Recently  he  wrote:  "Though  band  business 
on  the  road  is  terrible,  the  TV  and  radio 
trend  toward  good  bands  is  now  evi- 
dent. .  .  .  Those  in  the  trade  say  Lawrence 
Welk  started  the  whole  business."  A  few 
days  later,  The  Hollywood  Reporter  was  in 
receipt  of  the  following  note,  scrawled  on 
a  page  torn  from  a  school  notebook:  "Dear 
Sirs:  You  are  nowhere — right  beside  L. 
Welk.  He  is  a  corn  merchant,  and  it  sure 
grows  a  lot  higher  than  an  elephant's  eye. 
He  plays  hotel  music — the  long  mirror  and 
velvet  chair  kind — you  might  say  he  has 
a  gilt  complex.  Champagne — who  needs 
it?" 

Between  these  poles  of  opinion  stands 
one  of  the  most  musically  criticized  and 
praised  men  of  the  1950's.  This  somewhat 
puzzles  the  mild-mannered  gentleman 
whose  "Champagne  Music"  sparkles,  not 
only  all  over  ABC  Radio,  but  on  the  Sat- 
urday-night Lawrence  Welk  Show  and 
the  Monday-night  Top  Tunes  And  New 
Talent,  over  ABC-TV. 

His  success  is  such  that  he  can  afford 
to  be  tolerant  of  the  taunts  of  rock  'n' 
rollers.  His  has  been  selected  by  the  Na- 
tional Ballroom  Operators  of  America  as 
the  nation's  number-one  dance  band;  for 
six  consecutive  years,  he  has  played  three 
to  six  evenings  each  week  (depending 
upon  the  season  and  tour  commitments)  at 
Ocean  Park's  Aragon  Ballroom;  repeat- 
edly, the  readers  of  newspapers  and  maga- 
zines have  voted  his  radio  and/or  TV 
shows  the  best  of  the  year.  He  has  waxed 
more  than  500  records,  which  sell  slightly 
better  than  one  million  discs  each  year. 
In  the  fall  of  1956,  the  city  of  Santa 
Monica  honored  Mr.  Welk  and  his  bands- 
men as  outstanding  citizens  of  the  com- 
munity, tendering  them  a  parade,  and  a 
luncheon  at  which  over  a  dozen  scrolls 
and  plaques  were  awarded.  And,  just  last 
January,  he  played  for  President  and  Mrs. 
Eisenhower  at  the  Inaugural  Ball. 

In  private  life,  Lawrence  Welk  has  been 
married  to  the  same  pretty  wife  for  over 
twenty-five  years,  and  has  brought  up 
three  children:  A  daughter,  twenty-four 
and  married;  a  daughter,  twenty;  and  a 
son,  seventeen.  It  should  be  added  hastily 
that  they  favor  their  father's  musical  style 
above  all  others,  and  that  he  taught  all 
three  to  dance.  With  wry  good  humor, 
^  parent  Welk  says,  "My  three   are  among 


the  young  minority  who  consider  my 
music  useful  and  are  strongly  in  favor  of 
giving  it  air  time." 

However  that  may  be,  the  fact  remains 
that  Lawrence  Welk  is  developing  an  en- 
viable reputation  as  a  star-builder.  A 
sympathetic,  warm-hearted,  kindly  man — 
but  one  not  to  be  bamboozled — he  under- 
stands youthful  amb^  ion,  has  experienced 
more  than  the  usual  early  struggles  of  the 
musician,  and  is  constantly  alert  to  talent 
that  needs  fostering,  virtuosity  that  be- 
longs in  his  band. 

Rather  wistfully,  Lawrence  Welk  has 
pointed  out  his  need  for  fresh  faces:  "You 
know,  standing  up  there  in  the  glare  of 
bald  heads  is  awfully  hard  on  the  eyes," 
he  has  said  affectionately  of  his  veteran 
music  men.  "But  acquiring  able  young 
musicians  today  isn't  easy." 

Many  of  his  adventures  in  recruiting 
have  been  what  one  might  call  rife  with 
frustration.  As  Mr.  Welk  was  leaving  the 
studio  one  afternoon,  he  was  approached 
by  a  pleasant  appearing  chap,  probably  in 
his  early  twenties,  who  applied  for  a  posi- 
tion by  saying,  "Say,  I'm  from  Zephyr 
Junction,  New  Jersey,  and  I  want  you  to 
give  me  a  start  in  the  band  business." 

Taking  this  effrontery  in  stride,  Mr. 
Welk  asked  what  instrument  the  applicant 
played.  "Trombone,  and  I'm  good,"  was 
the  response,  accompanied  by  an  emphatic 
nod  and  a  superior  smile. 

Mr.  Welk  sighed.  "What  I'd  give  to  meet 
a  young  musician  who  plays  violin,"  he 
admitted.  "I'm  constantly  on  the  alert 
for   a  violinist,  because   the   violin,   being 


GET  IN  SHAPE  FOR  SUMMER! 

Denise    Lor    has    effective    diet    and 
exercise    advice    for    you    in    the    June 

TV   RADIO   MIRROR 


on   sale   May   7 


the  most  difficult,  has  been  the  most  neg- 
lected of  instruments  for  several  years.  I 
could  put  you  to  work  tomorrow  if  you 
were  a  string  man,  but  I  can't  use  an- 
other trombonist." 

"But  I  tell  you,  I'm  good,"  reiterated  the 
young  man  with  a  horn.  "Furthermore, 
I've  got  to  eat,  too,  don't  forget." 

On  another  occasion,  Mr.  Welk  asked 
an  applicant  why  he  wanted  to  join  the 
Champagne  Music  Makers,  and  the  answer 
was:  "Because  I  want  to  express  myself. 
I  feel  that  I  have  something  important  to 
say,  musically,  but  I  need  a  hand  of  my 
own  to  give  me  the  proper  dramatic 
support." 

Another  audition- seeker  sauntered  up 
to  Mr.  Welk  and  chirped,  "Howdy,  maestro. 
What's  your  going  rate  for  musicians?  If 
the  price  is  right,  I  might  join  your  outfit." 

The  entire  financial  structure  of  the 
instrumental  profession  has  changed  so 
much  in  recent  years  that  such  a  question 
drives  Welk  into  as  much  of  a  frenzy  as 
his  good  breeding  and  natural  gentleness 
will  permit.  "In  the  old  days,"  he  says — 
and  he  has  known  the  old  days  for  a  long 
time,  having  seen  changes  taking  place  in 
musical  show  business  for  nearly  thirty 
years — "a  bandman  was  lucky  if  he  could 
knock  out  four  to  five  thousand  dollars  a 
year,  and  earning  such  an  income  meant 
living  many  months  on  the  road,  sleeping 
on  a  catch-a-wink  basis,  eating  in  pto- 
maine taverns,  shoveling  a  bus  out  of 
mud  or  snow  as  the  seasons  changed — but, 


worst  of  all,  becoming  a  stranger  to  his 
family.  Nowadays,  a  competent,  hard- 
working bandman  can  earn  four  times 
that  amount  if  he  is  an  authentic  profes- 
sional, not  merely  a  lazy  guy  who  plays 
an  instrument — and  he  can  live  a  normal 
family  life  in  a  home  of  his  own." 

Normal  family  life  is  infinitely  precious 
to  Lawrence  Welk.  He  was  next-to- 
youngest  in  a  family  of  four  boys  and  foxir 
girls,  who  grew  up  on  a  farm  near  Stras- 
burg.  North  Dakota.  Each  of  the  children 
had  his  chores  to  perform.  All  ten  Welks 
were  kept  busy  from  dawn  to  dusk.  But 
around  the  crackling  fire  on  wintry  nights, 
or  on  the  screened  porch  in  summer,  the 
family  would  gather  to  hear  their  father 
play  his  accordion.  It  was  the  only  pos- 
session Ludwig  Welk  and  his  wife  had 
been  able  to  carry  along  with  them  when 
they  fled  their  native  Alsace-Lorraine  be- 
fore the  invading  Prussian  troops  in  1878. 

Naturally,  Lawrence's  intense  young  in- 
terest in  the  accordion  was  a  great  satis- 
faction to  his  father,  who  taught  the  boy 
the  rudiments  of  the  instrument  along 
with  his  alphabet.  For  years,  they  shared 
the  battered  "squeeze  box."  And  then,  on 
Lawrence's  fifteenth  Christmas,  he  was 
given  an  accordion  of  his  own.  It  was  a 
new  type,  modern,  with  piano  keyboard. 
The  gift  represented  every  spare  penny 
the  elder  Welks  had  been  able  to  set  aside 
for  many  years.  It  had  been  bought  with 
egg  money,  Fair  prize-money,  proceeds 
from  fruit  sold  to  passersby.  It  was  a 
dream  come  true. 

Inescapably,  music  is — to  Lawrence 
Welk — an  expression  of  family  cohesion. 
He  grew  up  in  the  midst  of  such  a  philos- 
ophy, lived  rather  than  expressed.  Now- 
adays, his  band  participates  in  this  clan 
concept  of  music.  To  belong  to  the 
Lawrence  Welk  band,  one  must  be  fa- 
milially  acceptable  to  its  leader.  Perhaps 
this  fact  explains  why  there  seems  to  be 
an  unusually  warm  fraternalism  among 
the  Champagne  Music  Makers,  and  why 
new  stars  are  usually  selected,  first,  for 
their  talent,  and  second,  for  their  assim- 
ilability  by  the  group. 

That  Lawrence  Welk's  musicians  share 
his  attitude  is  indicated  by  the  fact  that 
their  service  with  him  to  date  totals,  in 
aggregate,  around  140  years.  Greatest 
contributor  to  this  grand  total  is  Jerry 
Burke,  with  a  proud  twenty-two  years. 
It  was  Jerry  at  piano  when,  in  1934,  young 
Welk  and  his  accordion  assumed  the  lead- 
ership of  the  first  Music  Maker  aggrega- 
tion. Jerry  plays  the  Hammond  organ 
and  celeste  along  with  the  88's,  and — ^like 
Mr.  Welk — is  a  Dakotan  (South  instead  of 
North,  however) . 

Record  for  shortest  length  of  service  is 
held  equally  by  Jack  Imel  (the  sailor 
marimba  player-dancer  who  was  added  to 
the  troupe  in  January,  1956)  and  the  Len- 
non  Sisters  (added  at  Christmas  time, 
1955) . 

Jack  Imel  started  his  career  at  four, 
when  he  began  to  take  tap  dancing.  Dur- 
ing high-school  days,  he  began  to  study 
xylophone.  By  the  time  he  was  ready  to 
enlist  in  the  Navy,  to  serve  his  obligatory 
military  term,  he  had  toured  with  Horace 
Heidt's  "Opportunity"  show  for  eighteen 
months.  As  a  first-class  musician  with  a 
Navy  3/c  rating.  Jack  repeatedly  won 
talent  shows  and  served  as  a  member  of 
the  Fleet  Admiral's  official  band.  With 
honorable  discharge  imminent.  Jack  ap- 
proached the  Champagne  Music  Makers 
through  channels:  He  forwarded  a  tape 
recording  of  his  marimba  playing,  along 
with  a  brief  biography  and  a  photograph. 
Mr.  Welk  auditioned  him  at  the  Aragon 
Ballroom,     an     experiment     that     almost 


wrecked  the  joint.  The  fans— normally  a 
restrained  and  calmly  knowing  group- 
went  somewhat  wild.  So  did  the  writers 
of  tons  of  rapid  fan  mail.  (Sorry,  girls, 
but  Jack  is  married  and  the  father  of  two 
handsome  youngsters— a  girl  and  a  boy— 
and  number  three  will  debut  shortly.) 

The  Lennon  Sisters'  story  adds  another 
chapter  to  Welk  family  history.  Dianne, 
now  seventeen,  is  a  fellow  student  of 
Lawrence  Welk,  Jr.,  at  St.  Monica's  High 
School  in  Santa  Monica.  Dianne  and  her 
three  sisters— Peggy,  fifteen,  Kathy,  thir- 
teen, and  Janet,  ten — have  been  singing 
practically  from  the  cradle.  Their  father 
had  been  a  member  of  the  once  well- 
known  Lennon  Brothers  Quartet,  and,  as 
his  children  had  come  along  (eight  at  this 
date,  and  number  nine  scheduled),  he  sang 
with  his  progeny,  teaching  them  the  facts 
of  harmony  in  an  informal  way.  Dianne 
had  been  seven  and  Peggy  five  when  they 
discovered  that — even  without  their  fa- 
ther's aid — they  could  divide  a  song  be- 
tween them  and  double  its  effectiveness. 
Kathy's  voice  proved  to  be  different  in 
pitch  and  tone  quality  from  that  of  her 
two  older  sisters,  which  added  zest  to  the 
group,  and  Janet  was  discovered  to  have 
the  knack  of  singing  any  one  of  four 
parts. 

It  was  Larry  who  brought  the  Lennon 
Sisters  to  his  father's  attention,  and  their 
addition  to  the  Champagne  Music  Makers' 
family  adds  sugar  to  a  variety  show  whose 
life  is  spice — which  is  to  say  that  the  story 
of  any  member  of  the  troupe  would  make 
a  good  movie. 

For  instance,  Myron  Floren,  at  seven, 
spotted  a  $19.95  accordion  in  a  Sears- 
Roebuck  catalogue,  ordered  it,  and  has 
been  playing  accordion  ever  since.  At 
nine,  he  won  both  first  and  second  place 
in  a  school  music  contest:  First,  for  accor- 
dion;  second,  for  piano.     He  worked  his 


way  through  Augustana  College  by  teach- 
ing accordion.  One  of  his  students  was  a 
lovely  girl  named  Berdyne,  whom  he 
married.  She  doesn't  in  the  least  mind 
the  perennial  sound  of  the  accordion 
around  the  house,  which  is  lucky  be- 
cause—between playing  special  engage- 
ments, working  with  the  Champagne 
Music  Makers,  teaching  and  simply  prac- 
ticing— Myron  is  harnessed  to  the  accor- 
dion for  seven  to  ten  hours  each  day. 

Then  there's  Larry  Hooper,  ace  pianist, 
whose  speaking  voice  was  so  similar  to  the 
chiming  of  a  great-grandfather  clock  that 
Mr.  Welk  felt  certain  Larry  could  sing  a 
soothing  bass.  Larry  protested  that  his 
tones  were  fit  only  for  bouncing  off  a  tile 
shower  with  the  water  flowing  freely.  But, 
when  the  boss-man  makes  a  suggestion  in 
a  flatteringly  confident  tone,  a  musician 
usually  goes  along  with  the  experiment. 
"Oh  Happy  Day"  was  the  re$ult,  and  Larry 
has  been  $inging  ever  $ince. 

Aladdin,  the  violinist-singer  who  re- 
minds some  audiences  of  the  actor,  Regi- 
nald Gardiner,  prefers  to  be  known  simply 
as  Aladdin  (without  reference  to  lamps, 
please).  However,  the  name  on  his  birth 
certificate — issued  in  New  York  City — is 
Aladdin  Abdullah  Achmed  Anthony  Pal- 
lante.  He  can  explain  "why"  in  twelve 
languages,  a  feat  that  reduces  most  ques- 
tioners to  awe-stricken  silence. 

Rocky  Rockwell,  the  band's  comedy  vo- 
calist-trumpeter-trombonist, has  trouble 
with  both  friends  and  fans.  Repeatedly  he 
is  asked,  "What  are  you  wearing  on  your 
head,  Rocky?  A  dead  squirrel,  maybe? 
Spanish  moss?  Or  are  you  merely  scared?" 
He  grins  and  lets  it  pass,  being  a  shy  type 
unless  confronted  by  camera  and  mike. 

Are  you  one  of  those  who  dotes  on 
Buddy  Merrill  and  his  romantic  guitar? 
He'll  be  twenty-one  on  July  16,  1957.  Born 
in  Utah,  Buddy  grew  up  in  Gardena,  Cali- 


fornia, just  an  E-string  away  from  the 
ABC-TV  studios.  Before  he  was  ready 
for  kindergarten.  Buddy  was  playing  his 
father's  guitar  and,  by  the  time  he  was 
struggling  through  fifth-grade  arithmetic, 
he  could  have  doubled  for  Don  Juan  be- 
neath a  balcony  ...  if  he  hadn't  regarded 
girls  as  beneath  his  notice.  He  has  changed 
his  opinion  considerably  since  fifth  grade, 
however — Buddy's  marrying  high-school 
sweetheart  Faye  Philpott  this  summer! 

Another  fascinating  fact  about  the 
Champagne  men  is  that  many  of  them 
tried  other  ways  of  life  before  admitting 
that  the  note  of  success,  for  them,  had  to 
be  coaxed  from  a  musical  instrument. 
Johnny  Klein,  the  terrific  tympanist,  was  a 
schoolteacher;  Norman  Bailey,  who  dou- 
bles in  trumpet  and  trombone,  prepared 
himself  to  be  a  business  statistician,  but 
very  nearly  employed  his  talent  perma- 
nently in  the  guided  missile  department 
of  an  aircraft  plant;  Jack  Martin,  sultan 
of  the  sax,  was  graduated  from  Ohio  U. 
with  every  intention  of  becoming  an  ad- 
vertising tycoon. 

Lawrence  Welk  is  glad  that  every  mem- 
ber of  his  musical  family  gravitated,  even- 
tually, to  him,  and  he  turns  an  occasional 
eye  upon  the  second  generation  being 
brought  up  by  his  musician  men.  That 
family  touch  again.  However,  it  is  well- 
known  that  musical  ability  is  often  handed 
down  from  parent  to  child.  Lawrence 
Welk,  as  has  been  stated,  has  three  young- 
sters; Alice  Lon,  the  sparkling  "Cham- 
pagne Lady,"  has  three  sons.  The  rest  of 
the  band  own  a  junior  section  totaling 
twenty-nine,  with  two  more  set  to  make 
an  appearance  soon. 

Lawrence  Welk,  the  pied  piper  of  the 
champagne  parade,  should  be  able  to  pro- 
vide the  best  in  music  for  dancing  feet 
and  happy  hearts  for  at  least  another 
generation! 


...HOW  TO  LOOK  LOVELY 
^       THOUGH  EFFICIENT 


Trust  young  modems  to  find  a  way  ...  a  way  to  crowd  into 
one  short  day  all  the  taxiing,  mothering,  clubbing,  gardening 
and  housekeeping,  and  still  meet  him  at  5:30  looking  lovely.  It 
takes  smart  planning,  even  to  your  make-up  .  .  .  Magic  Touch. 
This  blessedly  simple  aid  to  loveliness  is  a  creamy  compact.  A 
fingertip  does  it,   in   seconds— hides  the  freckle  and  bump, 
freshens  the  color,  adds  the  fresh,  young  look.  But  more, 
it  lubricates,  protects  your  skin  all  day— ends 
tedious  bedtime  creaming.  It's  a  natural  for 
today's  casual  living  —  the  easy  way  to  be 
effortlessly  lovely,  even  on  busiest  days. 

You  get  Magic  Touch  at  all  variety  stores 

and  better  drug  stores,  and  pay  only  45^ 

or  $1.00.  Hard  to  believe,  'til  you  look 

in  your  mirror!  It's  made  for  the  modem  ru^  u.i.    n_ 

1    1.1  11/-.  Tne  MaKe-Up 

woman— people  like  you!— by  Campana.  .y 

Moderns 


/ 


75 


Brave  New  World 


(Continued  from  page  64) 
matter  of  fact,  111  try  for  another.  I  like 
and  enjoy  women  generally,  but  the  two 
types  that  throw  me  into  right  field  are 
die  overbearing  career  women  and  so- 
phisticates. The  sophisticates  I'm  good 
enough  to  ignore  completely,  but  the  over- 
bearing career  woman  throws  me  into  a 
frightful  fluster.  I  haven't  had  time  to 
make  close  women  friends  over  here,  and 
I  miss  that.  I  do  like  women,"  she  re- 
iterates, looking  pleadingly  at  Bill. 

Bill  snorts  in  amusement  at  the  sound 
of  Jeannie  trying  to  be  careful  with  a 
subject.  The  feeling  that  Bill  might  be  a 
sort  of  Svengali  is  abruptly  amputated 
when  Jeannie  speaks  up  again  suddenly. 

"I  like  men,  too,"  she  says,  with  the 
devil  in  her  eyes.  "I  like  them  to  dress 
casually — not  overly,  like  blue  jeans — 
and  be  comfortable  and  fun.  I  like  the 
brother  type,  easy  and  enjoyable  to  be 
around.  I  hate  egomaniacs  and  'selling' 
men.  The  egos  talk  through  you  about 
themselves  and  never  know  who  they're 
talking  to,  as  long  as  they  have  an  audi- 
ence. The  sellers,  be  they  smooth  or  crude, 
are  a  certain  breed  of  pitchman  that  turns 
me  green.  My  favorite  kind  of  man,  of 
course,  is  alert  with  a  sharp  and  sensitive 
sense  of  humor  and  an  overwhelming 
kindness." 

Bill  nods  in  masculine  approval.  It's 
obvious  she's  describing  her  husband — 
but  her  next  words  throw  even  that 
sophisticated,  suave  gentleman  into  a 
bliishing  frenzy:  "He  must  also  be  very 
helpfxil,  with  a  tremendous  knowledge  of 
show  business  that  answers  all  the  millions 
of  questions  and  decisions  that  come  up 
on  my  career.  He  must  produce  and  write 


beautifully.  He  must  always  be  good  for 
a  giggle  or  a  hearty  laugh.  I  must  always 
be  able  to  like  him  on  sight — even  for 
eight  years.  He  must  be,  on  the  whole, 
very    patient.    .    ." 

Bill  can  stand  no  more  of  the  obvious 
attributes  his  wife  expounds.  "I  have 
been  the  epitome  of  patience — so  far,"  he 
booms.  "However,  these  so-called  'idio- 
syncrasies' have  got  to  go.  This  afternoon, 
for  instance,  we  must  mush  our  way 
through  two  cocktail  parties.  We  are  due 
at  the  first  at  5:30.  So,  at  4:30,  Jeannie 
will  disappear  into  that  labyrinthine  lady's 
wardrobe  and  make  up.  At  4:35,  I  am 
ready.  At  4:47,  the  minute  roar  of  Jean- 
nie will  be  heard:  'I'm  not  going!'  Used  to 
be,  I'd  dash  for  the  phone  and  make  our 
apologies  .  .  .  now  I  know  better.  I  wait 
for  five  minutes.  At  three  minutes  of  five, 
she  will  call,  'Come  in  a  minute.'  She  looks 
fine.  She  says,  'I  look  terrible,  I  can't  pos- 
sibly go.'  At  five,  she  tears  the  whole  lot 
off  and  starts  over.  I  retreat  and  walk  on 
the  lawn — until  suddenly,  at  5:15,  a  love- 
ly apparition  appears  and,  presiiming  it's 
my  wife,  I  escort  her  to  the  first  party  .  .  . 
late,  but  dressed." 

"Ah,  but  men,"  Jeannie  has  a  quick 
rebuttal.  "They've  only  to  dive  in  the 
shower,  dress  in  a  blue  suit  and  con- 
servative tie,  splash  a  bit  of  spice  on  their 
jaws,  and  they're  ready.  It's  not  fair." 

"Then  why,"  responds  Bill,  "do  you,  at 
every  tenth  accepted  invitation,  come 
running  out  dressed  to  kill,  look  at  my 
sports  shirt  and  ask  me  why  7'm  not 
ready?" 

"It's  because  I've  bought  a  new  dress 
and  I'm  ready  early,"  Jeannie  replies  with 
strictly    female    logic.      "Your    digressions 


are  confusing.  .  .  .  When  I  wake  up,"  Jean- 
nie continues,  striking  the  pose  of  a  torch 
singer,  "  'sometimes  I'm  happy,  sometimes 
I'm  blue  .  .  .  my  disposition  depends  on' — 
me. 

"Don't  let  her  fool  you,"  Bill  inter- 
rupts. "She's  usually  on  an  even  keel." 

"But,"  Jeannie  protests,  "when  I'm 
hilarious,  I'm  walking  on  the  sky.  And, 
when  I'm  depressed,  I'm  deeply  aware 
of  it.  I  didn't  used  to  be,  but  now  I  know 
it  has  nothing  to  do  with  my  life — it's  just 
a  stupid  depression  ...  so  I  wait  it  out. 
I  would  love  to  shout  'Shut  up!'  at  people 
who  sing  along  with  records.  I  have  a 
temper  to  match  my  hair  about  surface 
things,  but  I'm  pretty  easygoing  when 
I'm  working.  I've  worked  awfully  hard 
and  I  believe  you  never  get  ansrthung  for 
nothing." 

"If  there's  a  hard  way  of  doing  it,"  Bill 
points  out,  "Jeannie  will  do  it.  How 
about  your  impulsiveness?  Your  gener- 
osity? She's  always  concerned  with  older 
people.  A  pitiful  little  old  lady  can  send 
her  into  the  first  chorus  of  'Hearts  and 
Flowers.'  She  has  an  inquiring,  curious 
mind.  She's  easy  to  get  along  with,  but 
when  she  says  no,  she  means  it.  She  will 
give  away  her — or  my — last  dime,  but  she 
resents  having  it  taken  from  her." 

"I  think  that's  all  of  me,"  Jeannie  says 
thoughtfully,  "except  Bill  and  I  love  it 
here.  We  want  to  become  American  citi- 
zens (it  takes  five  years),  and  have  many 
babies,  and  build  a  house,  and  have  power 
steering,  order  cooked  dinners  from  a 
restaurant  at  nine  P.  M.,  and  have  work, 
and  have  fun.  The  kindness  of  fans  means 
more  to  me  than  most — because  it  means 
I've  been  accepted  in  a  coxuitry  I  love." 


(Continued  from,  page  45) 
sentimental  side.  (His  sign-off  phrase, 
"Be  kind  to  each  other,  won't  you?"  is 
just  part  of  it.)  That  he's  a  man  who 
goes  home  at  night,  family-man  style, 
to  Nell  and  their  two  teen-age  boys. 
Mason  and  Garry,  Jr.  That  he  does  very 
little  night-clubbing  and  partying,  but 
has  a  passion  for  cool  sailing  and  hot  mu- 
sic, and  that  he  beats  a  mean  drum. 
(Didn't  the  panel  of  I've  Got  A  Secret 
take  revenge  on  him  for  tricks  on  them, 
by  having  him  crated  on  the  program  one 
night,  in  a  huge  box,  and  sending  him 
over  to  Birdland — where,  undaunted,  Gar- 
ry promptly  got  on  the  drums  and  had  a 
jam  session  with  Count  Basie  and  the 
boys?) 

People  have  heard  him  talk  about  the 
fun  of  navigating  a  boat,  and  they  know 
he's   boat-crazy   and  has   recently  turned 
in  his   yawl   for   a   fine   big   sloop.    They 
have  watched  him  try  to  hide  some  of  his 
feeling  for  Jimmy  Durante  when  that  be- 
loved veteran  appeared  with  Garry  on  the 
show  last  winter — the  first  time  the  two 
had  been  together  in  this  way  since  they 
were    a    team    on    radio    some    ten    years 
ago  or  more.     (It  was  plain  that  here  were 
two    people    who    love    each    other    very 
much  and  weren't  really   ashamed  of  it.) 
Who   but   Garry   would   have   bought   a 
heavy,   old   and  locked   trunk   and  had   it 
brought  on  the  set  of  his  daytime  show — 
and,  without  preliminaries,  opened  it  be- 
y    fore  the  TV  cameras?     To  discover,  to  his 
V    own  and  everyone  else's  amazement  and 
R    amusement,  that  it  held  nothing  but  keys. 
Eighty  thousand  of  them,  by  a  later  actual 
count,  and  of  every  size  and  type! 
„g      As  for  the  panel  of  I've  Got  A  Secret, 


The  Great  Moore  Mystery 

everyone  knows  that,  while  Henry  Mor- 
gan has  a  wry,  rich  sense  of  humor  him- 
self, he  rarely  smiles.  .  .  .  That  Faye 
Emerson  is  outspoken  and  has  interesting 
opinions  on  a  very  wide  variety  of  subjects. 
.  .  .  That  Jayne  Meadows  is  the  first  to 
laugh  at  her  lack  of  knowledge  of  sports 
and  sports  personalities  and  events.  .  .  . 
That  Bill  CuUen's  glib  tongue  has  put  him 
in  some  tight  situations  on  camera — and 
the  same  glibness  has  pulled  him  right 
out  again.  .  .  .  And  that  these  are  only  a 
few  of  the  things  each  has  revealed  about 
himself. 

People  even  know  what  some  of  the 
rooms  in  their  homes  are  Uke.  And  the 
closets.  Realizing  that  most  of  us  have  at 
least  one  closet  which  overflows  with 
things  we  just  can't  bear  to  throw  away, 
Garry  proved  that  performers  are  people, 
even  as  you  and  I,  and  transported  some 
of  their  closets  to  the  set.  He  had  a  room 
of  Faye's  home  moved  out,  piece  by  piece, 
and  brought  intact  to  the  show  one  night 
— and,  when  she  saw  it,  she  stammered, 
"Oh,  I  have  been  meaning  to  have  that 
sofa  re-covered  for  three  years!"  Later, 
she  had  Garry's  office  brought  on,  to  retal- 
iate. It  was  complete  with  his  secretary, 
Joan  Madeo,  his  desks  and  files  and  un- 
answered mail,  the  office  clutter  and  the 
overflowing  wastebaskets. 

On  the  daytime  Garry  Moore  Show, 
everyone  knows  by  now  that  Durward 
Kirby  is  such  a  good  sport,  as  well  as  a 
super  performer,  that  he  let  Garry  "award" 
him  as  a  contest  prize — and,  when  he  was 
"won,"  he  went  off  manfully  to  keep 
faith  with  the  winner  and  to  spend  a 
weekend  with  her  and  her  husband  and 
children.     (It    worked    out    so    well    that 


his  hosts  later  became  the  Kirbys'  guests 
at  their  hom.e.)  Everyone  knows  that 
Denise  Lor  and  Ken  Carson  have  a  won- 
derful way  with  a  song,  and  they  also 
know  these  are  what  Garry  has  described 
as  "nice  people  with  a  lot  of  talent."  Peo- 
ple who  talk  about  taking  the  kids  on  a 
picnic  or  to  the  zoo,  or  shopping  en 
famille  at  the  supermarket.  People  know 
Howard  Smith's  modest  way  of  coming 
into  a  scene  when  Garry  calls  on  him, 
as  well  as  they  know  his  music. 

They  know  Garry's  ideas  about  his 
shows:  His  feeling  that  there  should  be  no 
forced  heartiness  with  guests  or  audience 
("We  demonstrate  our  liking  for  people 
by  being  natural  with  them  at  all  times," 
he  says).  None  of  what  is  called  "insult" 
humor,  funny  as  it  may  be  on  other  pro- 
grams ("But  our  audiences  would  think 
it  out  of  character  for  us").  No  talking 
down  to  the  daytime  audience  ("How  can 
you  expect  a  woman  to  be  less  intelligent 
in  the  daytime  when  she  looks  at  televis- 
ion than  she  is  at  night  when  she  looks  at 
it  with  her  husband?").  No  offensive  lines 
or  situations  ("Being  on  TV  is  a  lot  like 
being  invited  to  visit  friends  at  home"). 

Above  all,  viewers  know  that  Garry 
Moore  is  a  man  who  has  won  TV  Radio 
Mirror  Awards  for  himself  and  his  pro- 
grams for  many  years  running,  and  that 
he  wiU  never  accept  them  personally.  Al- 
ways he  accepts  on  behalf  of  everyone  on 
the  shows,  and  seen  and  unseen  workers 
who  have  contributed  to  winning. 

Perhaps  the  biggest  secret  that  has 
leaked  out  is  that  Garry  himself  is  a  sin- 
gularly modest  man  who  gives  out  loyalty 
and  enthusiasm  and  always  seems  to  get 
it  back,  with  dividends. 


Most  Happy  Season 

(Continued  from  page  70) 
Gale  is  allowed  to  travel  all  over  the 
world — without  leaving  Stage  One  of  Hal 
Roach  Studios.  Before  Susanna,  Gale  nev- 
er had  been  on  board  an  ocean  liner,  and 
she  says  the  only  traveling  she'd  ^ver 
done  was  visiting  her  uncle  and  aunt  in 
Paris,  Texas.  "Now,  I've  learned  to  love 
travel,"  she  twinkles.  "One  week,  we're 
in  Switzerland  or  New  Orleans.  The  next, 
we're  visiting  the  volcanos  in  Italy.  By 
the  end  of  the  season,  I  figure  I'll  have 
gone  around  the  world  four  times!" 

Nevertheless,  such  elaborate  shows  do 
not  come  easy.  Hal  Roach,  Jr.,  the  execu- 
tive producer  responsible  for  both  My 
Little  Margie  and  Oh!  Susanna,  describes 
Gale  with  such  phrases  as:  "Gay,  bright, 
clean  and  fresh  .  .  .  just  like  the  daughter 
we'd  all  like  to  have  .  .  .  level-headed, 
with  all-around  talent."  Then  he  adds, 
"And  she's  one  of  the  hardest-working 
girls  in  television." 

Gale's  working  schedule  is  as  well  or- 
ganized as  a  railroad  timetable.  Five 
r  days  a  week,  Monday  through  Friday, 
Gale  is  up  at  five.  "She  dresses  while  I 
feed  the  baby,"  says  husband  Lee  Bon- 
nell,  an  insurance  broker.  "Then  Gale 
feeds  the  baby  while  I  dress.  We  leave 
the  house  at  six,  and  I  drive  her  sixteen 
miles  to  the  studio.  She's  in  make-up  by 
six-thirty,  and  on  the  set  by  seven.  "Then 
I  go  home,  see  that  the  boys  get  off  to 
school,  and  get  to  my  office  aroimd  7:45 
A.M.  I  pick  up  Gale  at  six  P.M.,  we're 
home  by  seven,  have  dinner  at  half-past. 

"Dinner  is  the  only  meal  the  family  is 
able  to  share  together  on  weekdays,"  he 
explains.  "We  long  ago  agreed  that  the 
dinner  hour  is  the  most  important  one  to 
us  and  should  be  shared,  no  matter  what. 
Here  at  the  table,  we  give  the  boys  an 
!  opportunity  to  talk  about  their  day  and 
I  discuss  things  of  mutual  family  interest. 
It  was  at  the  dinner  table,  for  instance, 
that  we  told  them  their  baby  sister  or 
brother  was  on  the  way.  This  week,  we're 
discussing  the  problems  of  an  administra- 
tor— Phillip  is  vice-president  at  his  junior 
high — and  Phillip's   problems   with   Latin. 

"From  eight-thirty  to  nine-thirty.  Gale 
studies  her  script  for  the  next  day — each 
night,  she  learns  fifteen  pages  of  dialogue. 
From  then  until  ten,  we've  scheduled  a 
playtime  with  baby  Jo.  "The  boys  are  still 
up,  so  that  we  all  enjoy  her  during  this 
time.  Then,  at  ten,  Jo  gets  her  bottle 
and  all  the  kids  are  off  to  sleep.  Satur- 
days, Gale  practices  a  song  or  rehearses  a 
dance  for  next  week's  show,  so  she  doesn't 
have  to  get  up  until  eight.  S\mdays,  we 
take  the  boys  to  9:30  Sunday  school. 
Sometimes  we  take  them  to  the  Wednes- 
day-night meeting,  too." 

Recently,  the  church  program  was 
turned  over  to  the  Operation  Youth  group. 
Because  Phillip  was  to  give  the  benedic- 
tion and  invocation,  Gale  and  Lee  were 
both  there.  The  master  of  ceremonies,  a 
handsome  young  man  about  the  age  of 
fourteen-year-old  Phillip,  called  the 
meeting  to  order  by  saying,  "Ladies  and 
gentlemen,  we  have  some  visitors  with  us 
tonight,  and  a  celebrity  ...  I'd  like  to 
introduce  Gale  Storm."  Gale  took  a  bow 
and  sat  down.  Then  the  youthful  emcee 
added,  "Most  of  you  think  of  Gale  Storm 
as  a  celebrity,  but  we  just  think  of  her  as 
Philhp  Bonnell's  mother." 

Gale  couldn't  have  been  more  pleased. 
Even  being  the  star  of  Oh!  Susanna — the 
sparkling  series  which  viewers  have  voted 
the  best  new  program  on  television  this 
season — isn't  as  important  to  Gale  as  be- 
ing a  successfiol  mother.  Certainly,  if 
awards  were  given  for  devoted  families, 
Gale  Storm's  would  be  a  winner! 


OPPORTUNITIES 


FOR  EVERYBODY 


Publisher's  Crassified  Department  (Trademar 


For  clot»ified  advertising  raiet,  write  to  William  R.  Stewart,  9  Sovth  Clinton  Street,  Chicago  6  {Wom.'May)  7 


OF  INTEREST  TO  WOMEN 

EDUCATIONAL  OPPORTUNITIES 

$200  MONTHLY  POSSIBLE,  Sewing  Babywear— Play-Time 
Dresses;  lacing  Leather  MoccasinsI  New  Baby  Sandalsl  No 
house  selling  1  Rush  stamped,  addressed  envelope  for  further 
details.  Babyqay,  Warsaw  1,  Indiana. 

BUY  WHOLESALE!  30-80%  DiscountsI  Appliances,  Gifts, 
Typewriters,  Tools,  Watches,  Sporting  Goods,  Jewelry,  Cam- 
eras, Housewares,  etc.  Consolidated  Distributors,  Clifton  17, 
New  Jersey. 

$500  FOR  YOUR  Child's  Picture  (All  Ages).  Thousands  paid 
by  advertisers.  Send  one  small  picture.  Returned  with  judges' 
report.  Print  child's,  parents'  name,  address  on  back.  Spotlite, 
8346-P5,  Beverly,  Hollywood,  Calif. 

COLLECTING  BOXTOPS,  LABELS— through  acquaintances, 
youngsters,    groups — for    Buyers^brings    monthly    checksl 
Publishers-F3,  Oceanside,  Calif. 

$500  FOR  YOUR  child's  photo,  all  ages,  if  used  for  adver- 
tising. Send  photo  for  approval — free  camera  offer.  Returned 
two  weeks.  Advertisers,  6000-YE,  Sunset,  Los  Angeles  28. 

COMPLETE  YOUR  HIGH  School  at  home  in  spare  time  with 
60-year-old  school.  Texts  furnished.   No  classes.  Diploma. 
Information    booklet   free.    American   School,    DepL   X574, 
Drexel  at  58th,  Chicago  37,  Illinois. 

SHORT  STORY,  ARTICLE  Writing.  Big  opportunities  for 
new  writers.  Free  book  tells  how  to  learn  at  home  for  part  or 
full  time  income.  Palmer  Institute  of  Authorship,  Desk  PCW- 
57,  1680  N.  Sycamore,  Hollywood,  Calif. 
FREEI  "TALENT  APTITUDE  Test"  Learn  acting  at  home 
for  TV,  radio,  theater,  movie  career.  Hollywood  Royal  Acade- 
my, Studio  B4,  5880  Hollywood  Blvd.,  Hollywood  28,  Calif. 
HIGH   SCHOOL  DIPLOMA  at  home.  Licensed  teachers. 
Approved  materials.  Southern  States  Academy,  Box  144W. 
Station  E,  Atlanta,  Georgia. 

LEARN  WHILE  ASLEEPl  Details  free.  Research  Associa- 
tion, Box  610-WP,  Omaha. 

LOANS  BY  MAIL 

$2.00  HOURLY  POSSIBLE  doing  light  assembly  work  at 
home.   Experience  unnecessary.   Crown    Industries,   8507-B 
West  Third,  Los  Angeles  48,  Calif. 

MAKE  MONEY  SEWING  At  Home,  part  or  full  time.  We 
instruct.  No  Selling.  Free  details:  Jud-San,  618    E.   105th, 
Dept  E-15,  Cleveland  8,  Ohio. 

SPARETIME  HOMEWORKI  GUARANTEED  Pay.  No  Sell- 
ing, Everything  Furnished.  Enterprises,  229  Adams,  Boston, 
22-C,  Massachusetts. 
EARN  $50  FAST  sewing  our  precut  products.  Information  3c. 

BORROW  $50  TO  $500.  Employed.men  and  women  over  25, 
eligible.  Confidential — no  co-signers — no  inquiries  of  employ- 
ers or  friends.  Repay  in  monthly  payments  to  fit  your  income. 
Supervised  by  State  of  Nebraska.  Loan  application  sent  free 
in   plain  envelope.  Give  occupation.   American   Loan   Plan, 
City  National  BIdg.,  Dept.  WD-5.  Omaha,  Nebraska. 
BORROW  BY  MAIL.  $100-$600.  Anywhere.  Air  Mail  Service. 
Postal  Finance,  200  Keeline  Building,  DepL  653-H,  Omaha  2, 
Nebraska. 

HELP  WANTED 

Thompson's,  Loganville,  Wisconsin. 

EARN  SPARETIME  CASH  Mailing  Advertising  Literature.' 

Glenway,  Box  6568,  Cleveland  1,  Ohio. 

SEW  OUR  READY  cut  aprons  at  home,  spare  time.  Easy, 

profitable.  Hanky  Aprons,  Caldwell  3,  Ark. 

MAKE  MONEY  CLI PPI NG  Newspaper  Items  For  Publishers. 

Write,  Newscraft,  PW-983-E.  Main,  Columbus  5,  Ohio. 

BEAUTY  DEMONSTRATORS— TO  $5.00  hour  demonstrat- 
ing Famous  Hollywood  Cosmetics,  your  neighborhood.  For 
free  samples,  details,  write  Studio  Girl,  Dept.  1675C,  Glen- 
dale,  Calif. 

EARN  EXTRA  MONEY  selling  Advertising  Book  Matches. 
Free  sample  kit  furnished.  Matchcorp,  DepL  WP-37,  Chicago 
32,  Illinois. 

$18.00,    $36.00    WEEKLY    possible.    Handpainting    novelty 
Plates.  Flocraft,  Farrell  5,  Penna. 

HOMEWORK  ON  HAND-made  moccasins  and  bags.  Easy, 
Profitable.  California  Handicrafts,  Los  Angeles  46,  California. 

FREE  MATERNITY  FASHIONS  Catalog  With  Gift  Check- 

BUSINESS  OPPORTUNITIES 

Crawford's,  801 5C  Wornall,  Kansas  City,  Missouri. 

DO  IT  WITH  Felt.  Illustrated  16  page  booklet.  60c  Particulars 

for  stamp.  Liebig  Industries,  Beaver  Dam  6,  Wisconsin. 

MONEY  MAKING  OPPORTUNITIES 

$$$$GROW  MUSHROOMS.  Cellar,  shed.  Spare,  full  time, 
year  round.  We  pay  $3.50  lb.  We  have  over  25,000  customers. 
Free    Book.    Mushrooms,    DepL   412.   2954  Admiral    Way, 
Seattle,  Wash. 

PREPARE  ADVERTISING   LETTERS.   Mail  to  our  name 
lists.    $50    weekly    possible.    Adams,    11603-R    Paramount: 
Downey,  California. 

AGENTS  WANTED 

$15.00  THOUSAND  POSSIBLE,  copying  names  for  advertis- 
ers. Economy,  Box  1686,  Clearwater  12,  Florida. 
GUARANTEED  HOMEWORKI  IMMEDIATE  Commissions. 
Free  OutfitsI  Hirsch,  1301-12  Hoe,  New  York  City  59. 

EXTRA  MONEY  PREPARING  Mailing  Postcards,  Gul,  1815 

Meyers,  Lombard,  Illinois. 

MAKE   YOUR  TYPEWRITER   Earn   Money.   Send  $1.00. 

Hughes,  7004  Diversey,  Chicago  35. 

HOMEWORKERS    WANTED    PAINTING    Novelties.    No 

Selling.  N.  Roland,  Vincentown  1,  N.J. 

CALIFORNIA    SWEET    SMELLING    Beads.    Sensational 
sellers    Free  Particulars.  Mission,  2328AA  West  Pico,  Los 
Angeles  6,  California. 

60%  PROFIT  COSMETICS  $25  day  up.  Hire  others.  Samples, 

details.  Studio  Girl-Hollywood,  Glendale,  Calif.,  Dept.  1675H. 

OLD  COINS  &  MONEY  WANTED 

$300  MONTHLY  POSSIBLE  mailing  circulars.  Associated 
Advertisers,  Room  1002;  509-M  Fifth  Ave.,  New  York  17,  N.Y. 
FREE.  LATEST-HOMEWORK-Opportunities.  Opportunities, 
815  W.  59th  St.,  Chicago  21,  III. 

WE  PURCHASE  INDIANHEAD  pennies.  Complete  allcoin 
catalogue  26c.  Magnacoins,  Box  61 -KW,  Whitestone  57,  N.  Y. 
WE  BUY  ALL  rare  American  coins.  Complete  catalogue  25c. 
Fairview,  Box  1116-HN,  New  York  City  8. 

$35  WEEKLY  PREPARING  envelopes.  Instructions  $1.  Re- 
fundable. Adservice,  Spring  Valley  151,  New  York. 

FOREIGN  &  U.S.A.  JOB  LISTINGS 

MISCELLANEOUS 

HIGH  PAYING  JOBS:  Foreign,  USA.  All  trades.  Travel  paid. 
Information.  Application  forms.  Write  Dept.  21 B  National, 
1020  Broad,  Newark,  N.J. 

INSTRUCTION 

FREE  BOOK  ON  Arthritis,  Rheumatism  explains  specialized 
system  on  non-surgical,  non-medical  treatment  Write  Ball 
Clinic,  Dept.  750,  Excelsior  Springs,  Missouri. 

FREE  ILLUSTRATED  FOLDER.  Latin  American  Originals. 

All  unusual  items.  Write,  Maramba,  Box  2091 B,  McAllen,  Tex. 

WHOLESALE  CATALOGS 

FINISH  HIGH  SCHOOL  at  home,  spare  time.  No  classes. 
Diploma  awarded.  Write  for  Free  catalog  Wayne  School, 
Catalog  HCH-43,  2527  Sheffield,  Chicago  14. 

HOME  SEWERS  OPPORTUNITIES 

WHOLESALE  30  TO  80%  discounts.  Brand  name  merchan- 

dise. Giant  catalog  98c.  Clark  Sales,  Dept.  2,  6315  Whitewood, 
Detroit  10,  Michigan. 

WORK  AT  HOME 

SEW  BABY  SHOES  at  homel  $40  week  possible.  We  con- 
tact stores  for  you.  Tiny-Tot,  Gallipolis  19,  Ohio. 
PERSONAL 

$5.00  DAILY  POSSIBLE,   making   Orchids.  Easy.   Boycan 
Industries,  Sharon  42,  Penna. 

YOUR  HANDWRITING  ANALYZED  free.  Enclose  stamp. 
IGAS,  Inc.,  Springfield  4,  Missouri. 

SONGWRITERS! 

PROTECT  YOUR  IDEAS!      HOLD  ALL  SONGS.    POEMS! 
Write   foT   safe,   correct   procedure! 

SONG  SERVICE 
Dept.  T.V.  333  W.  56th  St..  New  York  19,  N.  Y. 


Tense,  Nervous 

Headaches  Need 

This  Relief 

A  survey  shows  3  out  of  4  doctors  recommend  the 
famous  ingredients  of  Anacin  to  relieve  pain.  Here's 
why  Anacin®  gives  better  total  eflEect  in  pain  relief 
than  aspirin  or  any  bufEered  aspirin: 

■i^^  ACTS  INSTANTLY:  Anacin  goes  to  work  instantly. 
Brings  fast  relief  to  source  of  your  pain. 

■■^  MORE  EFFECTIVE:  Anacin  is  like  a  doctor's  pre- 
scription. That  is,  Anacin  contains  not  one,  but  a 
combination  of  medically  proven  ingredients, 

^■^^  SAFER:    Anacin  simply  can  not  upset  your  stomach. 

■■^^  LESSENS  TENSION:  Anacin  also  reduces  nervoui 
tension,  leaves  you  relaxed,  feeling  fine  after 
pais  goes.  Buy  Anacin  Tablets  today! 


POEMS  WANTED 

■  ^^B  ^^■■■^^  For  musical   setting   .   .    .   Send 

■  ^^  ^^  ■  ■  ■  -^m   your    Poems     today     for    FREE 
EXAMINATION:      Any     subject.      Immediate     consideration. 

Five  Star  Music  Masters,  265  Beacon  BIdg.,  Boston,  Mass. 


Mothers  and   daughters  stoy  young   togelher~~^^^^^^^**i/  T 

when  sunny,  golden  curls  ore  gloriously  lovely!  Now,  without  V 

lints,  rinses  or  ugly  bleached  look,  give  your  hair  that  radiant  blondd  R 

color.  BLONDEX,  the  new  1 1 -minute  home  "lotion"  shompoo,  instantly 
removes  dingy  film  that  mokes  hair  dork.  Washes  blonde  hair  shades 
lighter.  Gives  i!  lovel/  lustre,  lightness  and  shine.  Safe  for  children's 
delicate  hair.  Get  BLONDEX  today  at  any  lOe,  drug  or  dept.  store. 

77 


The  Man  Who  Really  Won 


(Continued  from  page  41) 
the  stuff  that  stars  are  made  of,  and  calling 
attention  to  others,  rather  than  to  one's  self, 
is  not  the  usual  road  to  success  in  show 
business.  Yet,  thanks  to  the  medium  of 
television,  that's  exactly  what  happened  to 
Hal.  He  was  not  only  seen  by  a  weekly 
audience  of  32,640,000,  he  was  seen  in  all  the 
intimacy  of  camera  close-up.  The  public  got 
to  know  the  man  as  well  as  the  performer, 
and  to  realize  just  why  it  is  that  Hal  seems 
to  bring  out  the  best  in  contestants.  It  isn't 
just  a  matter  of  professional  technique.  It's 
because  he  genuinely  cares  about  the  other 
fellow — cares  what  happens  to  him.  This 
was  love,  love,  in  the  old-fashioned  re- 
ligious sense — and  audiences  couldn't  help 
loving  Hal  in  return.  Sure,  they  root  for  the 
contestcints  and  applaud  their  amazing 
displays  of  knowledge.  But  the  quizmas- 
ter himself,  they  sense,  has  something 
finer,  rarer,  more  enduring.  Better  than 
knowledge,  the  quizmaster  seems  to  have 
that  humility  that  comes  from  wisdom.  .  .  . 

Hal  March  sits  in  the  tremendous  living 
room  of  his  Manhattan  apartment,  holding 
a  tiny  baby  in  his  hands — holding  her  up 
so  they  can  look  in  each  other's  faces  and 
laugh  out  loud.  It  never  occurs  to  you 
that  Melissa  is  not  his  own  child,  because 
it  never  occurs  to  Hal.  Last  year,  when 
he  married  Candy  Toxton  Torme,  her  two 
children  by  a  former  marriage  seemed  so 
much  a  part  of  her  that  now  they  just 
naturally  seem  a  part  of  him,  too. 

"Isn't  she  lovely?"  he  asks,  holding 
"Missy"  up  even  higher.  "Isn't  she  the 
loveliest  baby  you've  ever  seen?"  And 
Missy  giirgles  in  delight,  as  though  she 
not  only  understood  but  also  agreed. 

"It's  in  the  Bible,  you  know.  And  a  little 
child  shall  lead  them."  And  that's  how  it 
started — Hal's  reminiscences  about  life 
and  love  and  where  a  little  child  can 
lead.  Throughout  it  all,  though  Missy 
didn't  say  a  word,  she  certainly  dominated 
the  conversation.  Blue-eyed  and  blond, 
she  knew  that  she  was  loved — and  she 
knew  how  to  love  in  return.  And  it  was 
all  so  easy  for  her!  She  was  born  knowing 
the  things  it  has  taken  Hal  a  lifetime  of 
searching  to  learn. 

"I've  always  been  a  curious  and  per- 
ceptive guy,"  he  says.  He  isn't  boasting. 
He's  trying  to  explain  why,  perhaps,  grow- 
ing up  has  been  a  more  painfixl  business 
for  him  than  for  others.  It  wasn't  enough 
that  he  was  born;  he  had  to  know  why. 
And  it  wasn't  enough  merely  to  live;  he 
had  to  figure  out  the  true  meaning  of 
life.  Even  as  a  child,  however,  it  was 
bad  type-casting.  He  didn't  look  the 
part  of  the  introspective  introvert.  He 
was  popular.  He  played  sports.  At  high 
school,  he  made  the  football,  basketball, 
and  baseball  teams,  and  was  president  of 
the  student  body.  He  was  even  an  ama- 
teur boxer,  fighting  twenty-five  bouts  in 
his  home  town  of  San  Francisco. 

Inwardly,  however,  he  was  as  sensitive 
as  a  dreamy  young  kid  taking  long 
walks  in  the  rain,  all  by  himself,  with 
five  books  under  his  arm.  There  were 
doubts  and  torments  and  the  pain  that 
comes  of  probing  deep  wounds.  The 
same  problems  that  a  psychologist  handles 
today,  Hal  tried  to  handle  himself — philoso- 
phically. 

"I  am  wrong,"  he  said,  "and  I  want  to 

change."    Even  today,  looking  back  on  it, 

Hal  insists  that  "this  is  important.  But  it's 

T    the  toughest  thing  in  the  world  to  do." 

V        And  perhaps  that  explains  why,  at  the 

R    age  of  twelve,  he  decided  to  be  an  actor. 

If  you  don't  like  yourself  as  you  are,  it's 

much    easier    to    play    at    being    someone 

else  than  it  is  to  change  yourself.  Besides, 


he  had  appeared  in  an  operetta  staged 
by  his  junior  high  school  class,  and  it  was 
heartwarming — when  you  doubted  your- 
self— to  have  others  applaud  your  efforts. 
It  wasn't  aU  applause,  however.  It  was  a 
long  struggle  up  from  cheap  night  clubs 
to  occasional  spots  on  radio,  from  the 
comedy  team  of  Sweeney  And  March — 
with  a  sustaining  program  on  CBS — to 
featured  comedian  on  the  Perry  Como, 
Jack  Benny,  and  Bob  Hope  radio  shows. 
Then  came  television.  He  was  Burns  and 
Allen's  next  door  neighbor,  Tom  Andrea's 
sidekick  in  The  Soldiers,  and  Imogene 
Coca's  "husband"  when  she  starred  in  her 
own  television  series. 

But,  finally,  he  was  on  his  own — master- 
of-ceremonies  of  The  $64,000  Question. 
The  show  not  only  made  television  his- 
tory, it  made  Hal  March.  At  thirty-five, 
he  was  showered  with  a  success  so  sud- 
den and  so  overwhelming,  it  could  have 
thrown  another  man.  To  Hal,  however, 
success  in  show  business  solved  nothing. 
"Life,"  he  has  always  maintained,  "is  a 
man's  real  career."  And  he  knew  he  was 
failing  at  that. 

"Why  don't  you  get  married?"  people 
asked  at  the  time. 

"My  life  isn't  sufficiently  stabiUzed  to 
make  me  a  good  husband,"  he  would  re- 
ply, with  characteristic  candor.  He  was 
waiting,  he  explained,  until  he  had  se- 
curity. He  didn't  mean  "financial" — he 
meant  "internal." 

"Before  you  can  be  happily  married," 
Hal  feels,  "you  have  to  find  yourself,  un- 
derstand your  own  particular  needs,  evolve 
your  own  philosophy  of  life."  And  so 
he  studied.  He  read,  the  great  books.  It 
is  significant  that  he  started  writing  a  long 
psychological  novel  in  which  he  tries  to 
develop  the  six  conflicting  facets  of  one 
man's  character. 

"I  had  the  capacity  for  recognizing 
truth,"  he  recalls.  "The  problem  was 
learning  to  apply  it  to  myself."  But  truth 
is  more  than  an  abstraction,  it's  a  way  of 
life.  Hal  felt  he  had  to  test  each  truth 
emotionally — in  actual  living.  "I  ex- 
posed myself  to  everything  possible,"  he 
admits.  "I  wanted  to  experience  every- 
thing first-hand." 

As  it  turned  out,  he  experienced  just 
about  everything  but  love.  For  the  truth 
was — well,  there  was  the  truth,  bouncing 
in  his  lap,  a  squirming  bundle  of  joy  and 
innocence  and  eternal  wisdom.  Little 
Missy  doesn't  stop  to  wonder  whether  she's 
worthy  of  love.  She  just  gives  it,  as 
naturally  as  she  breathes  the  air. 

"That  was  the  problem,"  Hal  recalls. 
"Learning  to  give  love — and  to  accept  it. 
And,  before  you  can  do  that,  you  have 
to  learn  to  love  yourself."  He  didn't 
mean  self-love,  like  an  egomaniac's.  He 
meant  self-esteem — like  a  healthy,  psy- 
chologically adjusted  person's.  It  wasn't 
enough  merely  to  find  yourself,  to  know 
yourself  as  you  really  are.  Maturity  re- 
quires that  a  man  accept  what  he  finds 
and  approve  it. 

"You  are  born  out  of  a  womb,  the 
same  as  other  people,  and  you  are  ex- 
posed to  a  world  of  people  who  also  have 
a  set  of  emotions,"  Hal  explains.  "And, 
as  you  grow,  if  you're  objective  about  it, 
you  become  aware  of  the  fact  that  you 
are  less  interesting  than  the  world  per  se. 
It  follows,  then,  that  we  should  stop 
trying  to  think  about  ourselves  so  much 
and  start  trying  to  understand  others. 

Hal  had  found  himself  by  forgetting 
himself  and  thinking  of  others.  He  had 
even  learned  to  laugh  at  himself,  and  so 
he  could  start  liking  himself.  Humility 
had   brought   with   it   maturity    and    self- 


respect.  At  long  last,  he  was  ready  to 
love.  Only,  where  did  one  find  a  mature 
woman — who  didn't  look  too  mature? 

It  was  simple.  He  went  to  a  party,  and 
there  was  Candy.  She  was  young,  she 
was  beautiful,  she  had  the  gift  of  laugh- 
ing at  herself.  But  more  than  that,  as 
Hal  explains:  "She's  honest,  level,  wide- 
open  on  any  question.  She's  had  hard 
times,  too.  It's  made  her  completely 
selfless." 

Hal  knows  now  what  he  has  been  miss- 
ing all  his  life.  He  was  thirty-six  when 
he  married,  and  yet — "I'm  glad  I  waited," 
he  confesses.  "We  worked  out  all  our 
problems  individually,  before  we  got  mar- 
ried. Now  we  have  no  problems  to- 
gether. There's  nothing  that  comes  up 
that  we  can't  handle.  We  understand  it. 
We  arrive  at  a  solution.  And,  usually, 
we  start  laughing  about  it — so  the  biggest 
problem  seems  a  little  thing  after  all." 

They  can  laugh  about  anything.  "The 
one  exception,"  Hal  adds,  "is  illness." 
That's  because  Steven,  Candy's  four-year- 
old  son,  was  very  sick.  In  fact,  they 
almost  lost  him.  But  Steven  is  the  pic- 
ture of  health  now,  and  his  illness  pro- 
duced something  of  lasting  benefit.  It 
brought  them  aU  closer  together  as  a 
family  imit. 

As  Hal  tells  you  about  their  life  to-  J 
gether  and  marvels  at  his  good  fortune, 
he  reminds  you  of  someone  who  just  hit 
the  $64,000  jackpot  himself.  He  still  can't 
believe  he  found  the  right  answer.  It's 
all  too  good  to  be  true,  and  somehow — 
it  will  vanish  as  suddenly  as  it  came.  Like 
so  many  people  in  show  business,  Hal 
says:  "I  know  it  can  go  like  that."  But 
then,  unlike  so  many  people  in  show 
business,  he  quotes  Marcus  Aurelius: 
"The  only  thing  constant  is  change." 

"Candy  and  I  have  both  been  poor,"  he 
points  out,  "so  we  can  appreciate  suc- 
cess all  the  more.  We're  aware  that  this 
is  a  wonderful  apartment,  and,  sure,  it's 
nice  to  have  tilings.  But  they  aren't  im- 
portant. We  can  do  without  them,  and 
that's  why  they  don't  lick  us." 

As  a  matter  of  fact,  Hal  recently  proved 
his  sense  of  values  by  paying  out  twenty 
thousand  dollars  to  get  out  of  a  contract 
he  had  signed  to  appear  in  a  Broadway 
show.  He'd  rather  spend  his  evenings  at 
home,  with  his  family.  He's  even  given 
up  his  writing.  "I'm  a  pretty  hanpv  guy," 
he  explains.  "I'm  fulfilled.  I  don't  have 
to  write  to  prove  my  maturity." 

But  there's  another  reason  Hal  is  anx- 
ious to  keep  his  evenings  free.  Some- 
time this  month,  his  first  child  will  be 
born.  And,  though  Candy  claims  that 
"men  don't  even  look  at  babies  the  first 
ten  months,"  Hal  looks  as  though  he's 
about  to  prove  her  wrong.  What's  more,  ■» 
if  all  goes  well  and  they  can  get  the 
house  they've  set  their  hearts  on,  they 
hope  to  move  to  Scarsdale — just  outside 
Manhattan. 

"It's  a  race  with  the  stork!"  Hal  ex- 
claims. But  Candy  merely  smiles.  If 
they  could  move  in  time,  they  would. 
Otherwise,  they  would  wait  until  after 
the  baby  was  born.  All  that  was  definite 
was — they  would  have  to  move.  Hal's 
apartment  was  perfect  for  a  bachelor,  but 
not  for  a  wife  and  three  children. 

And  so,  it  seemed,  a  little  child  was 
leading  them  right  out  to  the  suburbs, 
to  an  old-fashioned  home  of  their  own 
instead  of  a  modern  apartment  on  upper 
Fifth  Avenue.  And,  if  Hal  seems  the 
more  impatient  to  make  the  move,  it's  be- 
cause he  doesn't  want  to  wait.  This  is 
the  life  he's  been  searching  for  so  long. 
He  doesn't  want  to  waste  another  minute. 


Just  Having  Fun 

(Continued  from  page  57) 
to  go  'round,  enough  popularity  for  every- 
body, enough  opportunities,  because  that's 
the  way  he  lives.  They  couldn't  be  more 
right.  It  shows  in  the  way  he  never 
pushes  anyone  else  out  of  the  way  so  he 
can  stay  in  front,  the  way  he  never 
presses  too  hard  for  himself,  the  way 
he  never  wants  to  take  aU  the  bows. 

Good  things  are  "catching,"  according 
to  Perry's  ideas — not  just  mumps  and 
measles  and  such.  When  the  guests  do 
well  and  enjoy  the  show,  then  Perry  gives 
an  even  better  than  usual  performance. 
Everybody  gets  the  grade-A  treatment,  not 
only  such  established  stars  as  Peggy  Lee 
and  Johnnie  Ray  and  Patti  Page  and 
Julius  La  Rosa,  but  the  less  well  known 
ones,  too. 

Como  gets  a  really  big  kick  when  he 
has  a  talented  youngster  as  a  guest.  Ten- 
year-old  Brenda  Lee,  of  Red  Foley's 
country -music  shows — a  singer  who  has 
been  compared  to  the  Judy  Garland  of 
the  early  days,  and  who  has  a  sassy  way 
with  both  songs  and  the  spoken  word — 
made  a  first  appearance  with  Perry  and 
was  invited  back  several  times  because 
of  the  big  response  she  got.  Perry  thinks 
she  is  fabulous.  Thirteen-year-old  or- 
ganist Glenn  Derringer  has  been  on  the 
show  a  couple  of  times  this  year,  and  again 
Perry  cotddn't  have  been  more  pleased 
with  the  wonderful  response.  He  has  a 
special  spot  in  his  heart  for  kids,  any- 
how. "They  give  me  my  biggest  kicks,"  he 
says.  (His  own  are  Ronnie,  now  seven- 
teen, ten-year-old  David,  and  Terri,  who 
is  nine.)  "They,  and  my  elderly  fans — folks 
around  seventy  and  eighty  who  have  been 
listening  to  me  for  years." 
,  Perhaps  one  of  the  best  examples  of 
;  Como  informality  happened  during  the 
winter,  when  Guy  Lombardo  was  a  guest 
on  the  show.  A  short  time  before  his  cue 
to  come  on  with  Perry,  Guy  started  down 
from  the  dressing  room,  taking  the  back- 
stage elevator  at  the  Ziegfeld  Theater,  from 
which  the  show  originates.  Midway  be- 
tween floors  the  elevator  stuck — and,  in 
due  time.  Perry  was  introducing  a  Lom- 
bardo who  failed  to  appear  on  cue.  Mitch- 
ell Ayres  and  the  orchestra  replayed 
the  entrance  music,  and  Perry  just  stood 
there,  laughing  a  little  to  himself,  while 
frantic  search  parties  were  being  organ- 
ized behind  the  scenes. 
,  Those  who  had  seen  the  rehearsal,  or 
knew  the  script,  realized  what  was  hap- 
pening, but  for  a  moment  the  audience 
thought  Perry  was  merely  enjoying  one 
of  his  more  relaxed  moments,  on  camera 
or  off.  He  was.  He  knew  something  had 
gone  wrong,  but  it  didn't  throw  him. 
"Mitch,"  he  called  out  to  the  orchestra 
leader,  "you'd  better  come  on  over  here 
and  do  this  with  me" — and  he  went  right 
into  the  routine  he  had  planned  for  Guy. 
,  When  you  can  get  him  to  talk  about 
[  himself  at  all.  Perry  merely  says:  "I  like 
'  to  think  I  know  what  I'm  doing.  I  have 
been  doing  it  long  enough  to  know."  Which 
is  probably  his  modest  way  of  saying 
that,  if  he  seems  sure  of  himself,  it's 
no  more  than  should  be  expected  of  any 
pro  who  has  worked  at  his  job  as  hard 
and  as  long  as  Perry  has.  That  he  wouldn't 
deserve  to  be  where  he  is  if  he  couldn't 
sing  the  way  people  liked  and  do  a  good 
job  all  the  way  through. 
;  This  is  an  attitude  that  goes  a  long 
!  way  toward  explaining  the  winning  of 
awards.  Perry  would  laugh  that  off. 
"What  attitude?"  he  would  ask.  "I'm 
only  having  fun  on  this  show.  Just  singing, 
and  being  myself  with  wonderful  guests 
and  a  wonderful  gang  all  down  the  line 
\    who  help  me  put  on  the  show." 


I 


IN"CDTHIN"C3"  does  so  m.u.cli 
for  a,  •wonrian ... 

Beautiful  eyes  are  your  most  important  feature,  so  bring  out 
all  their  hidden  loveliness  with  Maybelline,  the  safe, 
natural-looking  eye  make-up  preferred  by  women  of  good 
taste  the  world  over.  Maybelline  makes  every  woman's  eyes 
beautiful.  How  very  beautiful,  you'll  never  know  until  you  try 

Maybelline  Mascara,  Solid  or  Cream  Form . . .  $1.25 
Maybelline  Automatic  Eyebrow  Pencil,  19i,  Twin  Refills  39(* 
Maybelline  Iridescent  Eye  Shadow  Stick,  $1 
For  complete  eye  beauty,  use  Maybelline  Professional 
Eyelash  Curler,  $1.00,  and  Precision  Tweezers,  29i        ^J/ 

ISTo tiling  '  Does  So  l/tijioh.  To  Ii<£a.k:e  ESyes  Beavitif u.1 


DANCING  SHOES— SUPPLIES 

Elastic     Leotard     with     Nylon     net     tu     tu     ^ 

ideal  Recital  Costume.  Pastel  Shades,  Black  &  Red.r 

Child's.  2  to  l2,$3.95:Adult's,  Sm.,  Med.,  Lo., $4.75. \ 

BATON— DRUM  CORPS  SUPPLIES 

SKATING  SKIRTS— Roller  or  Ice. 

Catalog  20c  (may  be  applied  to  purchase) 

Quincon  Supplies,  Dept.  D,  Box422,  Quincy  69,  Mass. 


DINERS  rUEND 


Fi 


THE 


The  soothing, 
refreshing  skin  con- 
ditioner that  pene- 
trates and  brings 
relief  to  numbing, 
tingling  muscles  in 
back  and  legs  .  .  . 
^Jg^  ends  the  dis- 
Ks^3&\  comfort  of 
,P*.S!!!7,y  tight,  dry 
skin. 

At  Drug  Stores  Everywhere. 

S.S.S.  COMPANY,  ATLANTA,  GA. 


High  School  Course 

at  Home 


Many  Finish  in  2  Years 

Go  as  rapidly  as  yonr  time  and  abilities  permit.  Equivalent  to  ros!- 
I  dent  school  work— prepares  for  college  entrance  exacas.  Standard 
I  H.  S.  texts  sopplied.  Diploma  awarded.  Credit  for  H.  3.  Bobjtscta 
I  completed.  Single  snbjects  if  desired.  Ask  for  Free  Ealletin. 

American  School.  Dept.  H553,  Drexel  at  58th.  Chicago  37 


Makes 

Pavements 

Feel 

Like  Cushions! 


DrScholls 
Wi  BALL-0-FOOT 
Cushion 


You  Actually  Walk  On  Air! 

This  modern  miracle  of 
walking  ease— Dr.  Scholl's 
Ball-0-Foot  Cushion  for 
men  and  women— relieves 
pain,  callouses,  burning, ten-  ^ 

dernessatballof  foot.The  cushion,  not  you, 
absorbs  shock  of  each  step.  Loops  over  toe 
—no  adhesive.  Flesh  color.  Washable.  Only 
$1  pair.  At  Drug,  Shoe,  Dept.,  5-10)^  Stores 
and  Dr.  Scholl's  Foot  Comfort®  Shops.  If 
not  obtainable  locally,  send  $1.00  direct  to 
DR.  SCHOLL'S,  Dept.  77B,  Chicago  10,  IIL 


79 


Godfrey  and  His  Star  Wagon 


{Continued  from  page  37) 
asked  me  to  do  something  a  little  better, 
or  explained  something  to  me,  I  didn't 
have  the  feeling  that  he  was  doing  it  for 
the  sake  of  the  show  but  rather  for  me 
personally." 

Pat  has  those  extras  which  Arthur  says 
make  for  TV  stardom.  Pat  has  been  a 
straight- A  student  at  Columbia  Univer- 
sity. He  is  a  husband  and  the  father  of 
three  girls.  To  be  a  TV,  recording  and 
movie  star,  as  well  as  student,  husband 
and  father,  he  has  put  in  up  to  nineteen 
hours  a  day.  But  success  never  comes 
easy.  And  Pat's  success  is  no  exception 
to  the  rule.  Neither  is  the  McGuires'  suc- 
cess. Arthur  has  said  many  times,  "No 
one  has  ever  worked  harder  than  the 
Sisters." 

Chris,  oldest  of  the  three,  says,  "When 
we  came  to  New  York  we  weren't  actu- 
ally ready  for  a  real  opportunity.  That's 
why  we  are  so  indebted  to  Arthur.  He 
not  only  gave  us  our  first  real  break,  but 
he  taught  us — and  put  up  with  us  while 
we  learned.  In  those  days,  we  didn't  even 
know  what  to  do  with  our  arms  when 
we  were  performing." 

In  the  beginning,  they  worked  so  hard 
that  Phyllis  just  plain  wore  out  her  voice 
and  couldn't  talk  for  nearly  four  weeks. 
They  had  to  be  reminded  to  smile.  They 
saw  their  first  written  arrangement.  Dot, 
who  carries  the  low  notes,  recalls,  "In 
those  days,  it  took  us  two  weeks  to  learn 
a  new  arrangement.  Now  we  do  it  in  two 
rehearsals.  Oh,  there  certainly  have  been 
some  changes  made!" 

The  girls  were  born  in  Middletown, 
Ohio.  Their  father,  Asa  McGuire,  a  hand- 
some six-footer,  was  a  steel  worker. 
Three  times  in  a  row  he  had  hoped  for 
a  boy  baby  but,  instead,  there  were 
Chris,  Dot  and  Phyllis.  Their  mothei'  was 
an  ordained  minister  who  served  as  pastor 
of  the  First  Church  of  God  in  Miamis- 
burg,  Ohio,  until  her  retirement  two 
years  ago.  "Our  living  room  at  home  was 
like  a  hotel  lobby,"  Chris  recalls.  "People 
were  always  visiting,  and  we  always  had 
games  and  singing." 

The  girls  began  to  sing  as  a  trio  for 
their  own  pleasure  and  then,  by  request, 
at  church  for  weddings  and  funerals.  They 
sang  only  sacred  music  and,  between  1946 
and  1950,  traveled  over  the  country  ap- 
pearing at  evangelical  meetings.  "We 
didn't  think  it  was  right  to  sing  both 
popular  and  religious  music.  And  we 
might  never  have  begun  singing  ballads 
if  we  hadn't  volunteered  to  sing  for  vet- 
erans. They  began  to  request  pop  tunes, 
and  you  don't  refuse  bedridden  men."  In 
1951,  they  made  the  complete  transition 
to  show  business.  December  of  1951,  they 
were  a  smash  on  Talent  Scouts. 

"We  went  home  for  about  a  month," 
Phyllis  recalls,  "and  then,  in  January, 
Arthur  invited  us  back  to  work  on  the 
show.  He  prepared  us  for  the  future.  He 
told  us  we'd  have  to  change.  We've  found 
the  things  he  predicted  came  true.  He 
told  us  that  we'd  have  to  work  at  other 
things  besides  singing.  For  example,  he 
gave  us  free  dancing  lessons  for  a  year. 
He  sa'd  it  would  be  important  to  us.  We 
had  our  reservations  about  that  but,  when 
we  began  to  sing  in  clubs,  we  realized  he 
was  absolutely  right.  Then  we  chastised 
ourselves  for  the  times  we'd  goofed,  in 
missing   or   showing   up   late   for   classes." 

Says   Dot,   "And   during  those  days   we 

J    were    very   quiet.    Hard   to   talk   to.    Not 

¥    Phyl  so  much,  but  Chris  and  I  were.    We 

R    were    scared,    I    think.     We    didn't    know 

what  was  expected  of  us."    She  goes  on, 

"But    Arthur    has    the    knack    of    making 


80 


people  feel  secure.    He's  always  been  for 


us  through  thick  and  thin.  When  we've 
had  to  miss  the  show — because  of  illness 
or  an  accident — he's  never  made  us  feel 
that  we  had  to  worry  about  it.  I  remem- 
ber Phyl  was  in  the  hospital  during  the 
holiday  season.  Arthur  was  not  only  won- 
derful about  our  absence  but  went  over 
to  the  hospital  to  visit  Phyl  three  times,  in 
spite  of  his  heavy  schedule." 

The  girls  have  arrived.  They  have  been 
singularly  honored  in  receiving  the  Copa 
Bonnet,  which  is  the  Academy  Award  of 
the  night  clubs.  It  has  been  given  dis- 
criminately  to  such  entertainers  as  Sophie 
Tucker,  Frank  Sinatra,  Lena  Home  and 
Jerry  Lewis.  When  the  McGuires  played 
Desert  Inn,  in  Las  Vegas,  this  spring,  they 
received  $25,000  a  week  for  four  weeks! 
Now,  when  they  return  to  Boston  or 
Chicago  or  Miami  or  Atlantic  City,  they 
are  competing  with  their  own  record- 
breaking  attendance  records. 

"Arthur  told  us,  in  the  beginning,  that 
you  can't  take  yourself  for  granted  in 
this  business.  That  you  must  constantly 
keep  working  and  improving.  He  does  it 
himself.  He's  always  ready  to  try  some- 
thing new,"  says  Chris.  She  continues, 
"He's    helped    us    with    so    many    things 


Singing  Your  Way  for  June 

PATTI  PAGE 

on   the   cover — -plus   an    in-person   story 


ERNIE  FORD 

Tennessee's  own  beloved  troubadour 

GUY  MITCHELL 

in  full  color — and  with  all  the  facts 

TOMMY  SANDS 

teen-age  star  in  teen-age  heaven 
all  in  the  JUNE  issue  of 

TV  RADIO  MIRROR 

at  your  newsstand  May  7 


there's  no  counting.  And  he's  just  won- 
derful at  rehearsal.  Never  nervous.  No 
rush.  You  can  do  something  over  five 
times  on  camera  if  you're  not  satisfied. 
He'll  tell  you,  'Now,  look,  this  three  min- 
utes is  all  yours.  You're  alone  out  there 
and   you're  all   that   counts!' " 

When  the  girls  are  before  the  camera, 
they  look  as  good  as  they  sound.  Arthur 
may  get  credit  for  the  way  they  handle 
themselves,  but  Chris  McGuire  takes 
credit  for  what  they  wear.  The  girls  have 
parcelled  out  responsibility,  and  it  is 
Chris's  job  to  choose  and  buy  clothes. 
She  favors  simple  sports  clothes  for  her- 
self and  her  sisters.  They  dress  with  as 
little  fuss  as  possible  and  wear  practically 
no  jewelry.  Usually,  the  night  before 
every  show,  Chris  is  on  the  phone  to  talk 
over  the  outfits  they'll  wear  the  next  day. 

It  is  the  job  of  Phyllis  to  handle  tele- 
phoning. She  organizes  the  day,  makes 
appointments  for  fittings,  picture-taking, 
rehearsals  and  a  dozen  other  things.    Dot, 


who  is  the  balance  wheel  of  the  trio,  also 
lends  her  body  to  the  fitting  prolalem. 
"We're  all  three  exactly  the  same  size. 
We're  size-eights,  but  we  buy  tens  for 
the  length.  So,  to  save  time  for  the  others, 
I  often  stand  in  for  the  fitting  for  all  of 
us.    It  makes  sense." 

Their  work  and  joint  duties  require 
that  they  be  together  almost  constantly. 
Not  until  evening — rather,  some  evenings 
— do  they  separate.  All  three  girls  live 
on  the  east  side  of  Manhattan,  within  a 
few  blocks  of  each  other.  Chris  is  married 
to  John  Teeter,  who  is  executive  director 
of  the  Damon  Runyon  Cancer  Fund.  She 
has  two  sons,  Harold,  fourteen,  and  Asa, 
ten.  Both  boys  are  in  private  schools. 
Phyl  and  Dot  share  a  duplex  apartment. 

"We  don't  do  any  cooking  or  house- 
keeping," the  girls  tell  you,  "for  we  don't 
have  time  for  it.  Several  evenings  a  week, 
we  are-  in  rehearsal  or  on  the  show  itself. 
Our  only  evenings  free  may  be  Friday 
and  Saturday.  Friday,  we  like  to  see  a 
Broadway  show.  On  Saturday,  we  enter- 
tain friends.  Sunday  night,  we  start  re- 
hearsal again  for  the  Wednesday-night 
show." 

A  man  whose  name  you've  heard  on  the 
air  is  that  of  Murray  Kane,  who  has 
worked  with  the  girls  from  the  beginning. 
Murray  writes  and  stages  their  material 
and  is  their  personal  manager.  The  girls 
are  proud  of  him  as  a  friend  and  arranger. 
They  swear  his  arrangements  are  greatly 
responsible  for  their  continuing  success. 

Murray,  a  tall,  spare  man,  talks  can- 
didly about  the  McGuires:  "I  wouldn't 
agree  that  they've  changed  much  in  the 
past  five  years.  Actually,  I  think  they've 
changed  very  little,  and  that  is  the  im- 
portant thing.  They  aren't  show-wise  and 
smart-alecky.  They  are  basically  simple 
and  sweet,  sensitive  to  criticism,  and  hard- 
working. When  I  first  started  to  work 
with  them,  they  listened  to  me.  When 
they  didn't  agree,  they  talked  it  out  with 
me.  They  still  do,  and  that's  important. 
Usually,  once  an  act  achieves  stardom,  all 
the  people  in  it  know  all  the  answers." 

The  McGuires'  way  of  life  has  changed 
little.  They  are  still  a  close  family.  Their 
parents  frequently  visit  in  New  York,  and 
the  girls  get  back  to  Miamisburg  several 
times  a  year.  At  home  in  Ohio,  they  visit 
with  old  friends  and  sing  in  the  church 
their  mother  founded.  They  continue  to 
make  regular  and  special  contributions  to 
the  church — furniture  for  the  nursery, 
ping-pong  tables  for  the  recreation  room. 
Their  church  is  probably  one  of  the  few 
that  has  a  paid  musical  director,  and  this 
again  is  a  McGuire  Sisters'  project. 

"We  do  most  things  together,"  Chris 
says.  "People  wonder  whether  it  isn't 
hard  on  our  nerves  being  together  most 
of  the  time.  It  isn't.  We're  close.  We  like 
each  other." 

"Oh,  we  have  our  differences,"  Phyl 
says,  "and  we  still  have  our  arguments. 
We  can  have  an  argument  anywhere — in 
a  taxicab  or  in  the  middle  of  Broadway." 

Dot  picks  it  up,  "We  can  tell  instantly 
if  one  is  hurt,  and  we  know  the  best  thing 
to  do  is  talk  right  out.  Never  more  than 
two  of  us  get  involved  in  an  argument. 
The  third  is  always  ready  to  mediate." 

Phyl  continues,  "We  may  argue  over 
our  masseuse.  We  love  massages  and  use 
the  same  masseuse.  Obviously,  just  one 
person  can  have  an  appointment  with  her 
at  a  tirne.  Well,  Chris  is  much  more 
orderly  and  methodical  than  we  are. 
When  we  have  a  free  hour  coming  up, 
she  is  likely  to  call  the  masseuse  first  and 
make  an  appointment.  That's  good  for  an 
argument." 

Living  by  the  clock   is  the  great  occu- 


I 


pational  hazard  for  people  in  TV  and 
radio.  Pat  Boone  contends  with  it,  too. 
He's  been  a  bxisy  boy,  commuting  from  his 
New  Jersey  home  to  classes  at  Columbia 
and  appearances  with  Godfrey.  And  the 
future  looks  just  as  busy,  with  his  20th 
Century-Fox  film  contract — and  the  long- 
term  deal  he  recently  signed  with  ABC- 
TV,  to  start  next  fall. 

"The  way  I  figure,"  he  says,  "is  that,  if 
I  get  five  hours'  sleep  a  night,  I'm  lucky." 
There's  an  extra  hazard  at  home,  too,  he 
adds.  "My  daughter  Cherry  won't  stay 
in  her  crib.  I  keep  carrying  her  back  all 
through  the  night.  I'm  thinking  of  putting 
a  lid  over  her  bed  so  that  she  can't  get 
out." 

Pat  mixes  up  a  sigh  and  grin,  explain- 
ing that  he's  not  really  upset  about  it. 
He's  hoping  to  have  at  least  three  more 
children,  and  optimistically  expects  that 
at  least  one  of  them  will  be  a  boy.  His 
present  three  children  are  Cherry,  almost 
three,  Linda,  going  on  two,  and  Debbie, 
the  baby.  Wife  Shirley  approves  of  a  big 
family.  She  is  a  particularly  helpful  and 
understanding  wife  for  her  singer  hus- 
band, since  her  father  is  Red  Foley  of 
Ozark  Jubilee  fame.  Shirley  knows  all 
about  show-business  problems.  Pat  notes, 
"She  isn't  keen  on  the  glamour  bit.  Noth- 
ing fancy  about  her.  No  furs.  No  jewels. 
Actually,  Shirley  would  rather  I  became 
a  teacher  than  an  entertainer,  for  the  life 
is   more  normal." 

Pat's  also  proud  of  Shirley's  athletic 
skill.  Pat  has  played  some  football,  but 
was  talked  out  of  trying  for  Columbia's 
squad  by  Arthur  Godfrey.  Pat  still  tries 
to  get  out  and  catch  some  ball  on  a  week- 
end. He  meets  Shirley  at  the  ping-pong 
table  and  usually  gets  licked.  He  recalls 
ruefully,  "Even  when  she's  pregnant,  she 
beats  me.  She  can't  move  fast,  so  she 
stands  at  the  end  of  the  table  and  doesn't 
move  her  feet  at  all — and  she  still  wins." 
Pat's  grades  have  been  perfect — straight 
A's.  Before  he  signed  the  movie  contract, 
he  investigated  the  effect  it  might  have 
on  his  school  work.  He  couldn't  commute 
between  Hollywood  and  Columbia  Uni- 
versity. "I  had  a  long  talk  with  the  Dean. 
He  told  me  I  could  have  a  leave  of  ab- 
sence. Said  it  could  be  done  for  business 
reasons,  and  that  it  wouldn't  affect  my 
chances  for  Phi  Beta  Kappa.  I  have  one 
more  semester  to  go.  I'll  take  that  next 
fall  and  graduate  in  January  of  '58." 

Godfrey  has  been  particularly  thought- 
ful about  Pat's  academic  progress.  Pat 
says,  "Mr.  Godfrey  takes  almost  as  much 
interest  in  my  grades  at  Columbia  as  I  do. 
He'll  tell  me,  'Now  don't  get  behind.  Any 
time  you  need  a  day  off  to  catch  up  in 
your  studies,  just  tell  me.  Don't  let  any- 
thing stand  in  the  way  of  your  school- 
ing.' " 

It's  rather  ironic  that  Pat,  whose  voice 
has  brought  him  fame  and  fortune,  is  pit- 
ting his  daily  strength  at  Columbia  to 
earn  a  B.A.  degree  in  Speech.  But  Pat 
tells  you  that  it's  not  just  the  subject. 
He  explains,  "I  would  like  to  teach.  I 
may  teach  eventually,  no  matter  how  suc- 
cessful I  am  in  show  business.  To  me, 
teaching  is  more  than  the  subject.  Teach- 
ing is  creative,  in  that  there  isn't  a  stu- 
dent who  leaves  a  class  who  isn't  affected 
by  the  teacher  in  other  ways.  Maybe  that 
sounds  a  little  high-minded,  but  I 
mean  it." 

For  all  his  youth,  Pat  Boone  has  sense 
and  judgment.  He  knows  pretty  much 
what  he  wants.  He  recalls,  "You  know 
my  manager  and  I  turned  down  several 
picture  offers  before  we  took  this  one.  I 
just  didn't  want  to  go  out  to  Hollywood 
and  make  a  film  where  I'd  just  walk 
through  the  part  and  smile  and  sing  a  few 
songs."  He  goes  on,  "The  chance  of  acting 
appealed  to  me.   There  is  no  music,  except 


for  the  theme  song,  in  'Bernardine.'  It's 
a  good  story  and  proved  itself  on  Broad- 
way. John  Kerr  starred  in  the  Broadway 
play.  Can't  understand  why  they  didn't 
get  him  for  the  movie,  too,  instead  of  me. 
But  it  appealed  to  me.  One  thing  in  par- 
ticular appealed  to  me — I  could  concen- 
trate on  one  activity.  What  I  mean  is 
that,  in  the  East,  there  are  time  commit- 
ments for  TV  and  records  and  personal 
appearances  and  school.  For  the  first  time 
in  years,  I  figured  that  I'd  be  able  to  con- 
centrate on  one  thing.  I  asked  Arthin- 
about  the  picture  and  he  encouraged  me, 
too." 

Pat  goes  to  Godfrey  with  many  prob- 
lems. Pat  recalls  a  problem  he  got  himself 
into  last  summer.  He  was  booked  to  sing 
at  the  Steel  Pier  in  Atlantic  City  during 
the  same  week  he  was  to  appear  on  the 
Godfrey  morning  show.  On  the  pier,  he 
was  to  do  eight  shows  daily  from  1:30 
P.M.  until  midnight.  He  says,  "The  mis- 
take 1  made  was  due  to  ignorance.  I  fig- 
ured Atlantic  City  would  be  a  forty  or 
forty-five  minute  hop  to  New  York.  But, 
when  I  got  to  Atlantic  City,  I  found  there 
was  no  plane  service  and  that  it  would  be 
a  three-hour  drive.  I  had  to  leave  Atlan- 
tic City  at  five  in  the  morning  to  get  to 
Manhattan  by  eight.  Well,  that's  the  way 
I  started  off  and  Arthur  got  to  talking 
about  it  with  me.  We  were  on  the  air 
and  he  asked  me  when  I  started  at  the 
Pier  and  I  told  him  my  first  show  was  at 
1:30  P.M.  He  said,  'Well,  you  get  through 
here  at  11:30,  so  how  are  you  going  to 
drive  down  in  two  hours?'  Right  then 
he  picked  up  his  phone  and  called  the 
airport.  He  told  his  pilot  to  fly  me  down 
that  day  and  every  day  that  week.  He 
got  me  out  of  a  pickle." 

Things  have  happened  mighty  fast  to 
Pat,  although  nobody  could  call  his  pri- 
vate life  "fast."  He  doesn't  smoke,  drink 
or  club  around  town.  "Even  if  I  wanted 
to,  I  couldn't.  Besides,  Cherry  keeps  put- 
ting on  her  middle-of-the-night  show,  and 
she  would  be  disappointed  if  I  weren't 
there.  But  I'm  serious  about  thinking 
about  putting  that  lid  on  her  crib.  The 
other  night  something  awful  happened. 
She'd  been  up  three  times  and  I  was  try- 
ing to  make  the  best  of  four  hoxirs  I  had 
to  sleep.  So,  the  fourth  time  I  tucked  her 
back  in  bed,  I  locked  our  own  bedroom 
door.  I  was  hoping  that,  if  she  saw  the 
door  closed,  she'd  go  back  to  her  owm  bed. 
If  she  cried  about  finding  the  door  closed, 
then  I'd  get  up  again.  Well,  my  plan 
worked  fine,  I  thought,  until  morning 
when  I  got  up  and  unlocked  the  bedroom 
door.  There  she  was,  cuddled  up  against 
the  door  and  asleep  on  the  floor.  Made 
me  feel  awful." 

There's  no  telling  where  Pat  Boone  or 
the  McGuires  will  end  up.  The  sky  is 
their  limit.  But,  perhaps,  the  ultimate 
goal  in  the  life  of  an  entertainer  is  the 
position  Arthur  finds  himself  in — when 
he  can  be  both  entertainer  and  teacher. 
You  can  see  the  thread  of  this  already  in 
the  McGuires,  when  they  sponsor  a  musi- 
cal director — or  in  Pat  Boone,  when  he 
talks  about  teaching.  And  what  Pat  has 
to  say  about  creative  teaching  has  some- 
thing in  conunon  with  Arthur's  approach 
to  his  work  as  talent  scout  and  talent  de- 
veloper. 

"This  business  has  its  headaches,"  Ar- 
thur says.  "It  also  has  its  rewards — won- 
derful rewards.  I  think  the  most  impor- 
tant requisite  for  success  in  it  is  that  you 
have  to  like  people  generally.  Individuals 
may  get  on  your  nerves  and  be  tempo- 
rarily discouraging,  once  in  a  while,  but 
this  profession  of  mine  has  taught  me 
that  most  people  are  good,  and  I  therefore 
love  them."  And  he  concludes,  "I  started 
with  nothing,  so  it  gives  me  great  satis- 
faction to  help  others." 


for  the  LOVE  of 

DAD 

— on  his  day — 

give 
him 

SPORT 


Give  your  husband  and  your  father 
SPORT  Magazine  for  Father's  Day 
and  you'll  solve  your  gift  problems 
easily,  economically  and  appropri- 
ately. SPORT  is  the  ideal  present 
for  the  man  who  likes  to  follow  big- 
time  sports.  SPORT  is  in  a  class  by 
itself  for  top-flight  features,  big- 
name  stars  and  well-known  writers. 
You'll  please  your  purse  with  this 
special  low-priced  gift  offer:  12  ac- 
tion-packed issues  of  SPORT  for 
only  $2— saving  you  .$1  off  SPORT's 
regular  subscription  price.  So  save 
money,  time  and  trouble — give  your 
Dad  a  gift  he'll  receive  and  enjoy 
every  month — a  gift  that  will  carry 
your  best  wishes  all  year  long — give 
him  SPORT!  Print  your  Dad's 
name  and  address  on  the  gift  form 
below.  We'll  enter  his  gift  subscrip- 
tion and  send  him  an  attractive  card 
in  yoiu-  name. 

SPORT  makes  a  terrific  graduation 
or  birthday  gift.  Take  advantage  of 
this  special  offer.  For  additional 
gift  subscriptions,  simply  print  the 
names  and  addresses  of  the  men  you 
want  to  receive  SPORT  on  a  sep- 
arate sheet  of  paper,  and  mail  it  to 
SPORT  with  this  gift  form. 


, MAIL  THIS   FORM   TODAY , 

Enter  a  gift  subscription  to  SPORT  for: 
n  18  months  only  $3  (You  Save  $1.50) 
n  12   months  only  $2    (You  Save  $1.00) 

*Two  EXTRA  issues  FREE  for  cash  with  order 

*n  I  enclose  $.  .  as  full  payment.  □  Bill  me 

Send  Bill  To: 

Donor's    Name 

Address 

City State 

Send  SPORT  as  my  gift  to: 

Name 

Address 


City State 

Mail   to:    SPORT.    Sp.   5-57WG. 
205  E.  42  St..   New  York   17.  N,  Y. 


81 


(Continued  from,  page  47) 
the  game  and  quitting  because  you  don't 
like  the  rules.  Marriage  is  for  adults  only. 

"I  think  one  of  the  most  important 
ideals  of  marriage  is  comradeship.  Two 
people  together  can  add  so  much  to  each 
other's  lives.  Certainly  they  can  live  a 
fuller  life  than  either  one  could  enjoy 
alone.  And,  by  uniting  their  efforts,  they 
can  accomplish  what  neither  could  single- 
handedly.  Ozzie  and  I,  for  example,  are 
really  good  friends.  We  share  and  confide 
everything  with  each  another.  As  a  mat- 
ter of  fact,  I  think  we  are  luckier  than 
most  because  our  interests  are  together 
in  the  home,  our  children,  our  bvisiness. 
Most  married  people  don't  have  the  ad- 
vantage of  being  in  business  with  the 
family.  We  do — and  it  has  given  us  a 
great  understanding  of  one  another's 
problems. 

"Some  people,"  she  continues,  "might 
think  that  working  and  living  together  is 
too  much,  that  it  might  present  a  prob- 
lem. Actually,  it  doesn't.  When  we're  on 
the  set,  it's  true  we're  together.  But, 
when  the  cameras  stop  rolling,  Ozzie  has 
his  cutting,  dubbing  and  writing  to  do, 
while  I  am  off  to  wardrobe  to  look  after 
costume  details,  or  on  the  phone  checking 
on  the  house  and  shopping  and  making 
sure  the  boys'  doctors  and  dental  appoint- 
ments are  kept.  And  the  boys,  in  turn, 
are  busy  with  their  books — or  polishing 
their  car. 

"Of  course,  when  Ozzie  and  I  first  met, 
it  was  a  different  story.  In  fact,  that's 
how  we  realized  we  were  in  love.  I  was 
singing  with  Ozzie's  band  and  we  had 
come  to  the  end  of  an  engagement.  My 
mother  and  I  went  off  to  one  resort,  while 
Ozzie  and  his  mother  went  off  to  another. 
After  three  days  of  being  apart,  we  found 
we  missed  one  another  as  only  two  young 
people  in  love  can.  Ozzie  called  me  on 
the  phone,  suggesting  that  my  mother  and 


It's  Love,  Not  Luck 

I  join  his  mother  and  him.  'Besides,'  he 
said,  'the  lake  where  I  am  staying  is  big- 
ger than  yours.'    As  if  that  mattered! 

"From  the  beginning  of  our  marriage," 
Harriet  points  out,  "Ozzie  and  I  have  al- 
ways shared  a  number  of  common  inter- 
ests. By  that^  I  mean  we  come  from  the 
same  kind  of  family  and  social  back- 
ground, we  were  brought  up  the  same 
way,  our  parents  were  the  same  kind  of 
people.  In  addition  we  had  the  same 
goals.  That's  especially  true  when  it 
came  to  our  family.  We  hardly  ever  dis- 
cussed having  children,  because  it  was 
just  taken  for  granted.  Before  the  boys 
were  born,  we  did  agree,  though,  that  we 
wouldn't  stop  at  one.  We  have  always 
felt  that  children,  if  you  are  lucky  enough 
to  have  them,  are  certainly  necessary  for 
a  complete  life. 

"Ozzie  and  I  also  agreed  on  some  other 
'fairly  important  details,'  like  sports,  for 
instance.  Ours  being  an  athletic  house- 
hold, I'm  forced  to  say  this.  But  it  is  here 
I  draw  the  line,  for  Ozzie's  and  my  sport- 
ing interests  have  never  been  the  same. 
As  a  matter  of  fact,  I'm  'agin'  the  neces- 
sity of  a  wife  having  to  share  her  hus- 
band's athletic  interest.  Before  we  started 
on  television,  Ozzie  played  tennis.  I'm 
interested  in  tennis,  enjoy  watching  him, 
but  never  play  myself.  I  used  to  be  in- 
terested in  ice-skating.  He  was  not.  He 
enjoyed  watching  me,  but  he  didn't  want 
to  ice-skate.  In  short,  major  goals  and 
larger  common  interests  are  important. 
But  I  think  everybody  should  be  allowed 
freedom  of  expression  in  smaller  individ- 
ual interests. 

"Mutual  encouragement,"  Harriet  adds, 
"is  another  thing  that  makes  a  marriage 
grow.  It's  like  asking  yourself  the  question, 
'Do  we  bring  out  the  best  in  one  another?' 
Ozzie  always  asks  more  of  me  than  I  think 
I  can  deliver.  And  I  deliver  because  he 
expects  it  of  me.    It's  that  simple.    I  think. 


Ozzie  will  agree  the  same  is  true  in  his 
case — it  never  occurs  to  me  that  there  is 
a  chore  Ozzie  can't  do.  Take,  for  exam- 
ple, his  producing  and  directing  a  tele- 
vision series.  That's  a  big  job.  A  motion 
picture  actor  seldom  pays  attention  to 
production.  He  doesn't  know  where  the 
lights  are — or  why,  for  that  matter — and, 
though  there  may  be  a  hundred  people 
on  the  stage,  he  doesn't  pay  attention  to 
what  they're  doing. 

"In  our  first  year  of  television,  though, 
we  suddenly  discovered  we  were  in  a 
real  business,  and  at  first  it  was  a  little 
frightening.  But  it  never  occurred  to  me 
that  Ozzie  couldn't  handle  it.  So  he  did. 
I  guess  he  learned  more  about  meiking 
pictures  in  one  year  than  most  people 
learn  in  twenty-five.  So  you  can  see  why 
I  think  I'm  married  to  a  rather  unusual 
guy. 

"Then  there's  the  question  of  similar 
ideals,"  Harriet  emphasizes.  "Honesty  as 
a  person,  I  think,  is  the  biggest,  most  im- 
portant phrase  in  our  vocabulary.  It's  a 
'to-thine-own-self-be-true'  sort  of  thing 
that  we  try  to  teach  the  boys.  In  the  en- 
tertainment world,  you  can  gain  material 
advantage  by  buttering  up  people  and 
being  a  'yes'  man.  But  we  try  to  teach 
David  and  Ricky  you  can't  do  this  and 
live  with  yourself. 

"A  marriage  grows  because  you  give  a 
great  deal  to  it.  Marriages  are  success- 
ful because  what  you  want  isn't  always 
important.  But  nobody  is  proud  of  a  'door 
mat.'  You  have  to  keep  your  own  integ- 
rity and  self-respect.  Meanwhile,  if  your 
first  concern  is  for  the  other  person,  it 
will  be  hard  for  your  marriage  to  fail. 
That  is,  if  you  are  concerned  with  the 
other  person  first,  it  means  love — and,  in 
television  or  real-life,  love  makes  a  hap- 
py marriage." 

Harriet  and  Ozzie  Nelson  shovild  know. 


(Continued  from  page  59) 
of  appreciation  range  from  silent-screen 
star  Colleen  Moore — who  insisted  that 
Gretchen  Young  be  put  under  contract, 
and  re-named  her  "Loretta,"  when  she 
was  twelve  years  old — through  a  long  and 
varied  list  of  Hollywood  celebrities  to 
names  which  the  world  never  heard  of 
.  .  .  but  which  Loretta  will  never  forget. 
From  executives  to  grips,  from  friends  to 
foes,  from  those  who  praised  to  those  who 
have  tried  to  destroy  .  .  .  they're  all  part 
of  the  actress  and  woman  she  is  today. 

Her  obvious  pleasure  over  the  many 
awards  she  has  received  since  her  entry 
into  television  is  based  on  her  conviction 
that  these  honors  recognize  everyone  con- 
cerned with  The  Loretta  Young  Show, 
not  just  Loretta.  "I've  appreciated  and 
been  fond  of  many  members  of  many 
crews,"  she  says  earnestly,  "but  television 
has  given  me  a  rich  and  proper  appreci- 
ation of  the  too-often-taken-for-granted 
'know-how'  of  these  trained  men." 

No   matter   how   hard    Loretta    tries   to 
spread  around  the  largesse  for  the  success 
which  has  always  followed  her,  there  is  still 
only  one  Loretta.  Her  lovely  featiu-es  have 
graced  so   many  miles   of  motion-picture 
film,  since  her  first  appearance  as  an  infant 
•f    in  1918,  that  this  alone  is  something  of  a 
V    record  where  the  movie  industry  is  con- 
R    cerned.  But  what  sort  of  personality  at- 
tributes must  a  person  have  to  achieve  so 
much  acclaim  in  her  chosen  field?  To  be- 
gin  with,  Loretta  is  so  completely  honest 


Loretta  Young 

it  sometimes  hurts.  Take  the  question  of 
age:  In  Hollywood — a  land  where  birth 
dates  are  marked  "top  secret" — Loretta 
smilingly  admits  to  have  been  bom  Jan- 
uary 6,  1914.  Since  this  figure  appears  in 
almanacs  as  early  as  1928  (when,  at  four- 
teen, she  won  her  first  big  role),  it  can  be 
taken  to  be  as  reliable  as  a  life-insurance 
statistic.  But  Loretta's  age  has  nothing  to 
do  with  Loretta  the  actress.  Given  any 
mother-daughter  script  with  ages  between 
twenty-two  and  forty,  Loretta  could  take 
her  pick  of  the  two  roles. 

To  really  know  Loretta,  you  have  to 
know  her  interests.  She  is  the  kind  of 
woman  who  will  spend  all  her  free  time 
helping  others.  For  seven  years,  she  was 
president  of  St.  Anne's  Foundation,  which 
supports  a  maternity  hospital  for  unmar- 
ried mothers  and  sponsors  the  Holy  Fam- 
ily Adoption  Service.  Because  of  the  re- 
strictions of  her  television  schedule,  she 
has  had  to  resign  as  president,  but  she  still 
serves  as  a  member  of  the  board  of  trus- 
tees. Even  more  illuminating  is  the  fact 
that  Loretta  feels  one  of  the  highlights  of 
her  life  was  the  St.  Anne  Celebrity  Auc- 
tion in  1949.  St.  Anne's  Foundation  needed 
a  large  simi  of  money  to  establish  the 
adoption  service — $30,000  to  be  exact.  As 
president,  Loretja  and  the  board  were 
determined  it  should  be  raised.  The  auc- 
tion was  arranged  and,  at  its  end,  Loretta 
— grinning  from  ear  to  ear — was  able  to 
hand  over  to  Sister  Winifred  a  check  for 
$41,012.50. 


Another  of  Loretta's  character  traits  is 
a  certain  determination  and  confidence, 
without  which  she  would  never  have  be- 
come the  award-winning  actress  she  is. 
This  determination  is  apparently  some- 
thing she  was  born  with,  for  it  was  made 
manifest  shortly  after  her  initial  picture 
appearance  at  the  age  of  four.  She  and 
her  mother  and  sisters  were  visiting  her 
Aunt  Colleen.  After  following  her  aunt 
around  the  house  for  an  hour,  watching 
while  she  swept  and  polished,  little  Loretta 
(then  Gretchen)  suddenly  offered  the 
promise.  "When  I'm  a  star,  Aunt  Collie, 
I'm  going  to  buy  you  a  new  broom." 

There  was  no  doubt  in  her  young  mind 
that  she  would  become  a  star.  And,  at 
twelve,  when  she  signed  a  First  National 
Contract — she  did  buy  the  broom! 

But  the  one  personality  trait  of  Loretta's 
which,  more  than  any  other,  makes  her 
an  award-winning  actress  is  her  sensi- 
tivity to  the  feeling  of  others.  Psycholo- 
gists call  this  "empathy."  It  is  simply  the 
ability  to  sense  sympathetically  the  feel- 
ings of  those  aroiind  you. 

Today,  Loretta's  charm,  natiuralness 
and  genuine  interest  in  people  has  made 
her  one  of  the  most  warmly  respected 
stars  in  the  industry.  Each  week,  27,000,000 
Americans  invite  her  to  visit  them,  simply 
by  touching  the  tiny  knob  which  releases 
the  magic  genie  of  television — and  presto! — 
the  one,  the  only  Loretta  is  in  their  living 
rooms,  with  her  radiant  smile  and  brilliant 
versatility  as  both  actress  and  woman. 


Love  of  Children 


(Continued   from   page  68) 
the  moods  and  needs  of  others,  to  those 
who  are  ill  or  unhappy,  and  especially  to 
children.    His    own,    and    children    every- 
where. 

Although  Dr.  Malone's  son  David  is  al- 
ready interning  at  the  hospital,  Sandy  and 
Ruth  Becker's  own  brood  are  still  young- 
sters. Joyce,  their  eldest,  will  be  thirteen 
on  her  next  birthday,  which  will  auto- 
matically change  her  status  to  that  of  a 
teenager,  but  Curtis  is  only  eight  and  An- 
nelle  is  six.  All  three  are  rooters  for  their 
daddy's  programs,  for  Young  Dr.  Malone 
and  for  the  group  of  children's  TV  shows 
he  does  over  Du  Mont's  New  York  sta- 
tion, WABD — these  include  the  early- 
morning  Sandy  Becker  Show,  the  early- 
evening  Looney  Tunes,  and  Bugs  Bunny 
Theater.  The  kids  like  the  way  their  dad- 
dy does  commercials,  too,  and  the  way  he 
plays  host  on  some  of  the  other  programs 
they  watch.. In  fact,  they  think  he's  quite 
a  fellow! 

Sandy  believes  that  shows  for  children 
should  teach  by  making  it  fun  to  learn, 
and  the  ratings  would  seem  to  prove  he's 
right.  It's  also  his  belief  that  even  the 
barrier  of  language  cannot  stand  between 
someone  who  loves  children  and  the  chil- 


National  Association 
for  Mental  Health 


dren  themselves.  Last  year,  the  Ideal  Toy 
Company  and  Panagra  Airlines  sent  him 
on   a    tour    of    the    west    coast    of    South 
America  at  Christmas  time,  to  help  dis- 
(     tribute  toys  to  needy  and  sick  children,  a 
i     wonderful  kind  of  good-will  mission.  San- 
dy's  Spanish,   learned   in  his   schooldays, 
proved  rather  inadequate  for  fluent  con- 
f     versation,  but  for  the  language  of  the  heart 
i     there  were  no  limitations. 
i         Little  pictures  quickly  sketched  served 
,      to    convey    some    of   his    ideas.    He    drew 
hundreds   of  his  rapid,   amusing  cartoons 
of    animals    and    people    and    places    and 
everything  imder  the  siin.  By  gesture  and 
smile  he  captured  all  the  kids,  and  soon 
they  were  singing  and  laughing  with  this 
more    than    six-foot    stranger    with    the 
friendly  gray-brown  eyes  and  the  warmly 
comforting  hands.  Dr.  Malone  would  have 
considered  it  first-rate  therapy. 

Back  in  New  York,  when  he  leaves  the 
studios,  Sandy  goes  home  to  a  roomy, 
white-with-green-trim  Georgian  house  on 
Long  Island.  Besides  Ruth,  the  charming 
wife  and  mother  around  whom  this  home 
centers,  and  the  kids,  Tanko  will  be  there 
to  greet  him.  Tanko  took  the  place  in  their 


saddened  hearts  of  their  other  German 
shepherd  dog.  Jocko,  who  was  killed. 

Goldie,  the  golden-yellow  parakeet  who 
has  been  their  pet  since  she  was  six  weeks 
old,  flies  out  to  greet  him.  Pops,  the  hand- 
some cockateel,  winks  an  eye  in  welcome. 
Even  the  tanks  of  fish — all  over  the  house 
and  filled  with  all  kinds,  sizes  and  colors — 
swim  'round  and  'round  more  frantically. 

He  may  find  a  new  stray  kitten  that  one 
of  the  children  has  picked  up,  or  some 
little  outdoor  animal  or  bird  that  has  been 
wounded  and  needs  care.  For  this  is  a 
household  where  all  animals  are  loved 
and  tended.  Sandy  uses  birds  and  animals 
on  his  children's  shows  and  there  are  al- 
ways some  cages  of  pets  at  the  studio.  He 
believes  that  all  children  instinctively  love 
animals  and  should  be  taught  to  under- 
stand them  and  to  care  for  them  properly. 

Curtis  Becker  is  a  small  replica  of  his 
dad,  and  his  constant  shadow.  When  Sandy 
makes  things  in  the  basement  workshop — 
all  kinds  of  shelves  and  cabinets  and  tables 
and  many  household  devices —  Curt  is  the 
tool-bearer  and  helper.  When  Sandy  goes 
peering  into  the  engine  of  a  sports  car, 
the  kind  he's  crazy  about,  Curt  peers,  too. 

Joyce,  fast  developing  into  a  good  pian- 
ist, is  a  girl  with  definite  personality.  She 
has  appeared  on  some  of  Sandy's  pro- 
grams and  has  taken  over  for  him  several 
times  when  he  had  to  be  away,  carrying 
on  with  poise  and  charm.  She  even  did 
commercials    usually    handled    by    Sandy. 

"We  seem  to  be  developing  a  new 
family  tradition,"  he  says  proudly.  "I  had 
no  show-business  background,  but  it  looks 
as  though  our  branch  of  the  family  may 
turn  out  some  performers,  if  the  other  kids 
show  any  of  Joyce's  natural  talent.  An- 
nelle  may  have  it,  too,  but  right  now  we 
want  her  to  be  just  the  wonderful,  lovely 
little  girl  she  is,  enjoying  her  school  and 
her  friends  and  her  dolls." 

It's  Young  Dr.  Malone  that  brings  out 
the  more  serious  side  of  Sandy's  nature, 
of  course,  while  the  kids'  shows  are  on  the 
lighter  side.  As  Young  Dr.  Malone,  he  be- 
comes the  thoughtful  man  he  really  is, 
trying  to  express  the  best  of  himself,  with 
what  amounts  to  a  passion  for  truth  and 
honesty,  trying  to  live  confidently  in  the 
face  of  life's  many  problems.  He  admires 
the  way  David  Lesan  continues  to  write 
Jerry  Malone's  story  with  depth  and  with 
interest,  and  the  reality  with  which  the 
actors  do  it. 

It  is  a  highly  congenial  group  that  makes 
up  this  cast,  including  Joan  Alexander  as 
Tracey,  Dr.  Malone's  wife;  Bill  Lipton  as 
Jerry's  young  intern  son;  and  Rosemary 
Rice  as  daughter  Jill.  Bob  Readick  and 
Elspeth  Eric  are  Dr.  and  Mrs.  Mason,  and 
'Bill  Smith  is  Dr.  Brown.  A  real  friend- 
ship and  admiration  exists  among  them. 

Sometimes  Sandy  is  apt  to  talk  about 
himself  as  quite  an  unspectacular  sort  of 
man,  taking  his  job  seriously,  enjoying  his 
family  and  his  home,  working  at  his  hob- 
bies, counting  himself  lucky  to  have  these 
blessings.  If  he  seems  impatient  at  times 
to  be  doing  more  things,  to  be  turning 
more  of  his  dreams  into  realities,  it  is  be- 
cause he  is  one  of  those  creative  individ- 
uals who  is  never  satisfied  to  remain  at 
the  point  where  he  stands. 

At  other  times,  he  is  more  content  to 
stand  stUl  for  a  while  and  get  a  perspective 
on  life.  To  see  how  the  important  things 
gradually  come  into  focus,  while  the  less 
important  ones  gradually  slip  away.  How 
they  always  have,  and  they  always  will, 
for  those  who  will  stop  a  while  and  be  still. 

"I  suppose  that  is  a  sign  of  growth,"  he 
says,  laughing  a  little  at  himself.  "A  sign 
of  maturity.  Perhaps  a  sign  that  Dr.  Malone 
and  I  are  growing  mature,  together." 


Is  Liz  Taylor 
Just  Another 
Mike  Todd 
Production? 

.  .  .  .  get  the  behind  the  headlines 
story  in   PHOTOPLAY 

— the  magazine   the  stars   read 


Si«  thu  Inwl  biM  nut  "Wm  t  Trip  tg  minoH  (Mnf 


AT  NEWSSTANDS  NOW 
Also  in  this  issue 
JOAN  COLLINS 
...England's  beauty  learned  to  scy  no 

CHARLTON  HESTON 

.  .  .  no  substitute  for  true  love 

TONY  CURTIS 

.  .  .  Rebel  in  a  button-down  collar 

ALSO 

Enter  PHOTOPLAY's  exciting  new 
contest  .  .  .  live  like  a  star  in  Holly- 
wood for  five  days 

Save  Now  With  A 

PHOTOPLAY 

Subscription! 

mail  this  coupon  todoy  — | 

PHOTOPLAY,   Dept.  PH5-57 

205  E.  42  Street,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 

— check   one — 
Sirs:  (a)  Send    me   the    next    12    issues    of 
PHOTOPLAY  for  only  $2.** 
$2    enclosed    Q        Bill    me  Q 
(b)  Send    me    the    next    18    issues    of 
PHOTOPLAY  for  only  $3.** 
$3    enclosed    Q        Bill    me    Q 
**Two    extra    issues    if    cosh    accompanies 
order. 

— check  one — 
Extend    my    present   subscription  Q 

New  subscription  □ 

Name 

Address    

City 


Zone.  .  .    State. 


83 


TV  Radio  Mirror  Awards 


(Continued  jrom  page  30) 
Hey,  Jeannie! — triumphed  as  the  brightest 
new  star  in  television.  And  Dinah  Shore 
not  only  won  as  your  favorite  female 
singer  on  TV  (a  little  custom  she  started 
in  her  radio  days,  as  the  winning  songbird 
in  our  very  first  poll).  She  also  proved 
she'd  found  the  perfect  format  for  her 
talents,  when  the  hour-long,  colorcast 
Chevy  Show  Starring  Dinah  Shore  was 
voted  the  best  program  to  be  seen  on 
television. 

Patti  Page,  last  year's  gold -medalist, 
was  Dinah's  strongest  challenger  as  favor- 
ite TV  thrush — and  it  took  three  to  beat 
her,  even  in  the  radio  category.  That  was 
won  by  the  McGuire  Sisters,  whose  triple 
star  seems  to  be  steadily  rising.  Mean- 
while, Pat  Boone  left  no  doubt  that  his 
career  was  off  to  a  skyrocket  start,  by 
winning  out — not  only  as  the  top  male 
singer  on  radio — but  as  the  best  new  radio 
star!  He  was  also  rimner-up  for  the  title 
of  top  male  singer  on  TV,  but  the  ever- 
reliable  Perry  Como  repeated  his  triumph 
of  last  year.  Their  closest  contenders  for 
vocal  honors,  on  both  TV  and  radio,  were 
two  tuneful  chaps  named  Eddie  Fisher 
and  Elvis  Presley. 

With  the  Boone  and  McGuire  victories, 
Arthur  Godfrey  adds  to  his  unequalled 
collection  of  almost  fifty  Awards  for  him- 
self, his  programs  and  featured  perform- 
ers. Arthur  Godfrey  Time  picked  up  two 
more  medals,  as  not  only  your  favorite 
radio  daytime-variety  program  but  also 
the  best  on  the  air.  The  Boh  Crosby  Show 


triumphed  for  the  third  straight  time  as 
favorite  TV  daytime-variety,  closely  pur- 
sued by  The  Garry  Moore  Show.  But 
Garry,  who's  figured  in  eleven  Awards  to 
date,  had  his  own  sweet  victories:  A  third 
gold  medal  as  daytime  emcee  on  TV,  and 
ditto  for  I've  Got  A  Secret,  as  favorite 
panel  show. 

Traditionally,  the  voting  has  always 
been  closest  in  the  quiz,  variety  and  emcee 
classifications.  This  year — if  one  can  in- 
terpret a  secret  ballot — readers  were 
"splitting"  their  votes  more  than  ever, 
spreading  them  out  to  provide  new  plums 
for  old  favorites.  Godfrey  challenged  in 
every  possible  category.  So  did  Groucho 
Marx — ^whose  You  Bet  Your  Life  won  out 
as  radio  quiz  this  time.  So  did  Strike  It 
Rich — ^whose  host,  Warren  Hull,  proved  to 
be  your  favorite  radio  quizmaster.  And  so 
did  Art  Linkletter — whose  new  gold  med- 
al as  radio  daytime  emcee  is  his  ninth 
personal  Award  in  as  many  years. 

In  night-time  TV,  with  less  than  two 
years  on  the  air,  The  $64,000  Question 
wins  its  third  Award  (including  "best" 
last  year)  as  quiz  show,  and  Hal  March 
picked  up  his  first  as  quizmaster.  Ed 
Sullivan  and  his  supercharged  show  on 
CBS-TV  make  it  an  even  dozen,  as  favor- 
ite evening  variety  program  and  emcee. 
Ed's  closest  challenger  for  both  prizes? 
That  talented  chap,  Steve  Allen,  of  NBC- 
TV. 

The  only  other  newcomers  in  this  year's 
list  are  Mitch  Miller,  who  gets  your  nod 
as  favorite   evening  emcee,   for  his  spar- 


kling show  on  CBS  Radio,  and  John 
Conte,  NBC  Matinee  Theater  host,  who 
wins  out  as  TV  dramatic  actor.  F*revious 
Award-winners  John  Larkin,  James  Lip- 
ton  and  Jack  Webb  got  many  votes  this 
year,  too,  in  both  TV  and  radio.  But  it's 
Sandy  Becker,  star  of  Young  Dr.  Malone, 
who  wins  the  radio  actor's  medal — ^his 
third. 

Three  very  popular  TV  couples  vied  for 
honors  as  your  favorite  husband-and-wife 
team.  Lucy  and  Desi,  Burns  and  Allen, 
challenged  all  the  way,  but  Ozzie  and 
Harriet  Nelson — who  won  in  our  first  poll, 
back  in  1947 — trotted  off  with  their  eighth 
such  trophy.  The  Martin  Block  Show,  over 
ABC  Radio,  is  a  new  winner  in  a  new 
record -program  category.  But  Martin 
himself  figured  in  the  Awards  list  nine 
years  ago,  as  "favorite  disc  jockey." 

Lowell  Thomas,  who  won  again  this 
year  as  top  radio  news  commentator,  is 
another  who  started  winning  back  in  1947. 
Douglas  Edwards,  the  gold-medalist  for 
TV,  began  collecting  our  TV  news  Awards 
in  1950.  Sportscaster  Mel  Allen  didn't 
make  the  readers'  honor  list  till  1951.  But 
he's  never  missed  a  year  since,  for  either 
TV  or  radio — and,  this  year,  he  sprints  off 
with  both,  championships. 

Which  only  goes  to  prove  that,  no 
matter  how  formats  may  change — or  even 
the  tastes  of  listeners  and  viewers — there's 
always  room  in  the  TV  Radio  Mirror 
Annual  Awards  for  both  promising  up- 
and- comers  and  stars  who've  been  tops 
for  all  ten  years  of  our  nationwide  poll! 


They  Knew  What  You  Wanted 


(Continued  from  page  63) 
kindly  and  happy-making  manner  which, 
by  all  popular  counts,  is  doing  more  for 
jangled  nerves  than  a  bucket  of  tranquil- 
izer pills. 

Proper  tribute  to  this  art  of  Bob's  was 
given,  during  a  recent  rehearsal,  by  Gil 
Rodin,  one-time  Bobcat  and  now  pro- 
ducer of  The  Boh  Croshy  Show.  As  Gil 
points  out,  "Many  top-name  performers 
are  relaxed  and  even  casual  in  their  de- 
livery. The  big  difference,  in  Bob's  case, 
is  that  he  has  been  able  to  communicate 
this  manner  to  his  entire  TV  company,  and 
to  his  vast  audience  of  viewers.  I  don't 
know  whether  it's  a  quality  of  his  voice, 
something  in  his  chubby  face,  or  his 
rather  lazy  gestures — it  comes  over,  and 
it  stays  with  the  people  for  hours  after." 
This  was  highlighted  during  rehearsal 
of  a  Western  number.  Bob,  the  Modem- 
aires,  Joan  O'Brien,  Carol  Richards,  and 
The  Bobcats  were  to  be  attired  in  ranch 
outfits.  Somehow  "wardrobe"  slipped  up 
and  there  were  no  cowgirl  togs  for  the 
girls.  "Won't  it  look  funny?"  Joan  asked, 
as  the  girls,  in  a  small  panic,  started  look- 
ing at  each  other's  smart  cotton  dresses. 
"Don't  give  it  another  thought,"  Bob  dead- 
panned.  "We'll  introduce  you  as  three 
cowgirls  just  back  from  a  Neiman-Marcus 
fashion  show." 

Bob   has   turned   thumbs  down   on   any 
"set    format"    for    the    show.      "We    don't 
want  the  audience  to  foresee  every  move 
we  make,"  he  argues.    "Map  a  program  too 
strictly    and    you    lose    the    friendly    im- 
promptu feeling.     We  want  things  to  hap- 
pen   as    if   on   the    spur    of   the    moment. 
J    That's  why  we  don't  let  Gil  tell  us  what 
V    the  next  day  will  bring.     It's  his  job  to 
R    plan  for  us,  and  he's  tops  at  it.     My  job 
is  to  act  as  a  sort  of  editor,  and  make  sug- 
gestions   or    corrections    now    and    then, 
when  I'm  lucky  enough  to  think  of  one." 


This  does  not  mean  that  the  show  is  un- 
rehearsed or  formless.  Actually,  run- 
throughs  start  about  9:30  A.M.  and — 
since  none  of  the  troupe  has  studied  the 
script,  though  the  Modernaires  have  been 
given  a  chance  to  practice  their  songs  the 
day  before — it  requires  hard,  concentrated 
work  to  get  spontaneity  without  giving 
way  to  fluffing  of  lines,  awkward  move- 
ments and  loss  of  timing. 

Crosby  thinks  of  his  TV  family  as  being 
a  "variety  stock  company"  and,  for  that 
reason,  each  member  must  feel  more  for 
the  troupe  as  a  whole  than  for  himself. 
That's  why  five  male  singers  and  three 
female — four,  when  Cathy  appears — have 
managed  to  keep  surprisingly  free  of  jeal- 
ousy. Gil  announces  who  is  going  to  do 
what  song,  and  nary  a  show  of  tempera- 
ment. They  all  know  they  will  get  their 
chance  to  stand  out. 

At  noon,  the  entire  cast  assembles  in 
make-up  and  costume  for  the  pre-telecast 
introductions  to  the  studio  audiences. 
After  the  show,  there's  a  mad  dash  for 
food.  "Which  should  speak  well  of  our 
sponsors,"  laughs  Bob,  "since  we  defi- 
nitely eat  their  products."  The  cakes  are 
sliced,  the  sausages  passed  around.  "We're 
thinking  of  adding  a  dog  to  the  cast,"  he 
says,  "so  the  Pard  won't  go  to  waste." 

In  a  very  loose  sense,  the  program  hews 
to  the  following  lines:  Two  days  a  week, 
straight  variety,  with  various  members  of 
the  cast  emerging  as  soloists;  sandwiched 
within  the  three  remaining  shows  are  the 
features  known  as  "Hollywood  Back- 
fence,"  "The  Good  Guy,"  and  "Spring- 
board." "We  shake  these  ingredients  up 
as  often  as  possible  to  get  new  effects," 
explains  Rodin.  "That  was  why  we 
dropped  the  quizzes  and  some  of  the 
games  when  they  began  to  harden  into  a 
set  pattern." 

This  problem,  keeping  the  show  infor- 


mal, is  the  toughest  nut  to  crack.  When 
asked  which  of  the  features  he  prefers, 
Bob,  dashing  from  rehearsal  of  a  number 
to  another  part  of  the  stage  to  do  a  com- 
mercial, panted,  "Intermission!" 

"Hollywood  Backfence,"  the  oldest  of 
the  features,  is  given  over  to  presenting 
a  visiting  star  to  the  audience.  After  a 
bit  of  banter  and  a  plug  for  the  star's 
latest  picture,  the  audience  is  invited  to 
query  the  guest.  Often  a  new  fact  is 
brought  to  light.  Robert  Ryan,  who  gets 
about  $150,000  a  picture,  admitted  he  was 
happy  to  play  in  "Tiger  at  the  Gates"  at  a 
Hollywood  little-theater  for  only  $50  a 
week.  This  segment  of  the  show  picked 
up  momentum  as  Bob's  following  grew, 
and  stars  are  more  than  eager  to  appear. 

Nobody  is  quite  sure  who  thought  up 
"The  Good  Guy,"  but  all  are  agreed  it  is 
Bob  who  must  take  the  bow  for  the  title. 
Its  debut  on  Monday,  November  5,  scored 
a  terrific  hit  and  it  has  been  used  every 
Monday  since.  In  order  to  "keep  it  on 
the  upbeat,"  Bob  gives  the  nod  to  those 
who  have  overcome  a  handicap  or  helped 
others  do  so,  as  opposed  to  those  merely 
seeking  aid.  Hundreds  of  letters  pour  in 
each  week,  boosting  some  person  who  de- 
serves recognition  and  reward.  "Many 
shows  help  the  needy,"  Bob  explains.  "We 
cite  examples  of  handicaps  that  have  been 
licked.  Our  aim  is  to  bring  hope  to  people 
who  are  tormented  by  fears  for  the  future." 

Although  this  portion  of  the  show 
packs  a  mighty  human-interest  punch, 
it  is  not  confined  to  human  beings  only. 
A  popular  choice  turned  out  to  be  a  Ger- 
nian  shepherd  dog  living  in  Tarzana,  Cali- 
fornia. A  Los  Angeles  newspaper  column, 
written  by  Gene  Sherman,  aroused  Bob's 
interest.  It  told  how  Flash,  the  German 
shepherd,  had  been  acting  as  a  "seeing 
eye"  for  Teddy,  a  blind  mongrel.  Flash 
not  only  shared  his  meals  with  Teddy,  but 


i 


guided  him  through  roads  and  over  hills, 
opened  doors  for  him  and  served  him  in 
other  ways.  Gene  Sherman  and  the  dogs 
were  introduced  on  the  show,  the  colum- 
nist receiving  a  portable  TV  set,  and  the 
animals  a  supply  of  Pard  and  two  spank- 
ing new  doghouses. 

Then  there  was  the  case  of  Earl  Grant, 
26,  a  singer  whose  talent  and  master's 
degree  from  the  University  of  Southern 
California  had  not  shielded  him  from  the 
vicissitudes  of  life.  Miss  Joan  Southern, 
his  "Good  Guy"  classmate,  told  how  he'd 
been  forced  to  work  at  menial  jobs  to 
continue  his  studies  and  career.  Miss 
Southern  also  provided  a  tape  recording 
of  Earl  singing  "Moonlight  in  Vermont," 
and  Bob  had  him  do  it  on  the  show.  Nat- 
urally, the  yoimg  man's  delight  was  un- 
bounded when  he  learned  that  he'd  won 
a  recording  contract  with  Decca! 

As  sometimes  happens,  the  first  proved 
the  best — at  least  insofar  as  the  sensational 
goes.  Mrs.  Verda  Rose,  51,  of  Los  Angeles, 
uttered  a  searing  cry  when  Bob  presented 
her  to  her  mother.  There  was"  reason 
enough  for  that  cry.  Mrs.  Rose  had  been 
blind  for  forty-six  years,  until  a  recent 
cornea-transplanting  operation  returned 
20-30  vision  to  one  eye.  Through  "Good 
Guy"  Mrs.  Kathryn  Johnson,  a  neighbor, 
the  reunion  had  been  effected.  But — 
although  Mrs.  Rose  received  an  Amana 
deep-freeze,  and  Mrs.  Johnson  a  Magic 
Chef  stove — the  best  of  all  prizes  fell  to 
the  personnel  of  the  show  and  their  spon- 
-sors.  According  to  a  letter  from  the  Los 
Angeles  County  Medical  Association,  this 
one  short  "Good  Guy"  program  moved  so 
many  people  to  will  their  eyes  to  the  blind 
that  "it  may  help  us  administer  to  this 
need  for  a  lifetime."  Reports  from  other 
areas  show  the  same  fine  response. 

"Springboard,"  the  latest  segment,  was 
grafted  to  the  show  on  Tuesday,  Decem- 
ber 11,  and  is  now  a  once-a-week  feature. 
It  offers  a  showcase  for  young  musical 
talents — and,  as  the  title  suggests,  a 
springboard  to  public  recognition.  With 
thousands  of  young  "would-be's"  begging 
for  a  chance  to  break  in,  Bob  has  made 
one     of     his      rare     solemn     statements. 

"  'Springboard'  is  open  to  kids  in  high 
school  or  college,  but  I  want  it  clearly 
understood  that  I'm  not  out  to  help 
youngsters  quit  school  and  dive  into  show 
business.  Look  at  my  own  daughter, 
Cathy.  She's  shown  that  she  could  make 
the  grade  "as  an  entertainer,  but  her 
mother  and  I  are  determined  that  she  fin- 
ish her  education.  When  she  comes  up 
with  a  set  of  excellent  marks,  we  let  her 
make  an  appearance,  usually  on  our  show. 
That's  her  reward  for  good  work." 

The  youngsters  are  picked  by  producer 
Gil  Rodin,  associate  producer  John  Furia, 
Jr.,  and  Hal  Dickinson  of  the  Modern- 
aires,  with  a  Ught  assist  from  Bob.  Audi- 
tions are  held  once  a  week,  with  Gil  mak- 
ing the  final  decision.  Movie  and  record- 
ing companies  have  been  scouting  the 
program,  and  one  of  the  applicants  has 
already  met  with  success.  Sue  Rainey,  a 
slender,  pert  eighteen-year-old  brownette, 
caught  the  fancy  of  bandleader  Ray  An- 
thony and  his  bride,  beauteous  starlet 
Mamie  Van  Doren.  As  a  result.  Sue  has 
been  given  a  substantial  lift  toward  star- 
dom by  cutting  several  records  with  Ray 
and  his  band.  "Sue's  a  real  doll,"  says 
Mamie,  "and  'Springboard'  deserves  a 
hymn  of  praise  for  having  found  her.  All 
this  girl  needs  is  one  click." 

Since  "Springboard"  and  "The  Good 
Guy"  were  added  to  the  show,  fan  mail  has 
zoomed  from  585  to  2300  letters  a  week. 
Evidently  the  mingling  of  relaxed  enter- 
tainment with  features  of  an  inspirational 
nature  is  what  the  public  has  been  looking 
for.  Gil  has  had  to  appeal  to  CBS  for 
secretarial  reinforcements.    "It  doesn't  all 


have  to  be  answered,"  he  assured  the 
studio,  "but  it  must  be  screened  very  care- 
fully. It's  our  finger  on  the  pulse  of  the 
people." 

As  he  mounts  the  great  "money  tree" 
toward  the  place  where  the  foliage  ends 
and  the  sky  itself  begins.  Bob  sees  1957 
as  offering  a  double  challenge  "to  me  per- 
sonally." It's  the  year  in  which  he  hopes 
to  do  something  really  big  for  both  his 
TV  and  flesh-and-blood  families. 

In  his  own  words,  "I  do  five  shows  a 
week  now  for  my  five  kids.  Monday's 
earnings  go  to  support  Cathy,  Tuesday's  go 
for  Chris,  Wednesday's  for  Bob,  Jr.,  Thurs- 
day's for  Steve,  and  Friday's  for  baby 
Junie  Malia.  But  where  does  that  leave 
Mom  and  me?  Now,  we've  always  wanted 
to  have  a  home  in  the  Hawaiian  modem 
style  which  we  both  love.  This  is  the 
year  we're  building  it."  This  home,  in  the 
hilly  section  that  was  once  part  of  the 
famous  Doheny  estate,  will  have  to  accom- 
modate five  children  and  "twice  as  many 
pets."  It  obviously  will  prove  to  be  a 
costly  project.  And,  whenever  Bob  talks 
about  his  new  home,  his  mind  turns  at 
once  to  building  up  his  income.  This, 
logically  enough,  leads  him  to  talk  about 
his  plans  for  his  TV  family. 

With  pride,  he  calls  the  roster  of  his 
company:  "The  Bobcats,  seven  in  all,  are 
accomplished  musicians  who  can  rock  out 
bop  or  longhair  with  equal  ease  and  have 
over  one  hundred  years'  band  experience 
among  them.  These  men  get  right  into  the 
act  with  us — wear  costumes,  sing,  dance, 
and  are  real  showmen.  Not  only  that,  but 
do  you  realize  they  really  don't  have  a 
leader?  It's  a  rare  day  when  I  can  get 
out  there  and  keep  time  for  them. 

"And  the  Modemaires  work  out  all  their 
arranging  themselves.  They've  sung  with 
top  orchestras  for  fifteen  years  and  their 
Columbia  records  have  been  sellers  for  a 
long  time.  It  was  a  break  for  me  when 
I  was  able  to  bring  them  to  TV  with  me 
from  Club  15,  my  radio  show. 

"Add  to  them  cute,  titian-haired  Carol 
Richards,  and  pert  blond  Joanie  O'Brien, 
and  a  production  staff  headed  by  Gil — and 
what  a  cluster  of  brains,  beauty  and  talent! 
I'm  the  luckiest  emcee  in  show  business 
'cause  I  have  'em!" 

Bob  speaks  of  them  with  the  easy,  tender 
manner  which  is  his  stock  in  trade,  and 
which  one  housewife  described  in  a  fan 
letter  as  "better  than  a  happy  pill  or  a 
trip  to  my  masseuse,  because  it  braces  me 
up  and  calms  me  down  at  the  same  time." 

For  a  show  that  got  off  to  a  pretty  hum- 
ble start  on  a  thirteen-week  contract 
(when  it  made  its  debut  September  12, 
1954,  studio  executives  figured  it  only  for 
a  fill-in  until  something  better  came 
along — an  event  which  never  took  place, 
since  they  now  admit  with  red-faces 
nothing  could  be  better).  Bob  and  his 
gang  have  done  all  right.  They've  worked 
hard  for  perfection  and  have  won  a  large, 
loyal  following.  And  they  now  have  the 
security  of  a  seven-year  contract,  four 
years  of  which  are  still  to  go.  But  they're 
not  letting  themselves  get  fat,  smug  and 
sloppy.    They  have  bigger  ambitions. 

"Frankly,"  Bob  sums  up,  "we  want  our 
own  night-time  show,  and  we'd  like  it  to 
go  for  an  hour.  We  feel  we  need  a  wider 
setting  for  our  features  and  assorted  acts. 
Please  don't  get  the  idea  we're  not  happy 
with  our  daytime  spot.  We  love  it,  and 
we're  grateful  to  our  fans,  one  and  all, 
and  hope  they'll  still  be  with  us  at  the 
customary  time. 

"But  we'd  like  to  reach  those  millions 
of  viewers  who  don't  get  a  chance  to  turn 
on  their  sets  until  the  evening.  And,  at 
the  risk  of  being  a  bore,  we'd  be  tickled 
right  smart  with  that  there  extra  dough. 
If  it's  only  in  my  power,  I'm  going  to  make 
all  our  dreams  come  true  in  1957!" 


SEND  TODAT 

for 

ritMl  SI2E 

NO  DELAY-- 
your  trial  order 
shipped  in  24 


"<!  M*iyW^  ■ 


€4- 


PERMANENT  DARKENER  tX 
FOR  LASHES  AND  BROWS  ':^X<i 

•  NOT  AN  ANAUNE  DYEI 

•  I  APPLICATION  LASTS  4  to  S  WCCKSI 

Takes  just  seconds  to  apply . . .  stays  on  4  to 
5  weeksl  "Dark-Eyes"  is  the  perfect  woy  to 
make  eyelashes  and  brows  completely  natural 
looking... and  it  will  not  harden  or  break 
themi  "Dork-Eyes"  is  NOT  A  MASCARAI 
Will  jot  stick  to  eyelash   curler.   Eliminates 

the    bother    of    daily    eye    make-up. 

It  is  PERMANENT,  SWIMPROOF, 

SMUDGEPROOF,  TEARPROOF,  and 

SMEARPROOFI 

$1.25  (phs  tax)  at  leadlnt  drug, 
dept.  and  variety  chain  stores. 


"DARK-EYES"  COMPANY,  Dept.  P-57 
3319  W.  Carroll  Ave.,  Chicago  24,  III. 

I  enclose  25c  (coin  or  stamps— tax  included)  for 
TRIAL  SIZE  pkg.  of  "Dark-Eyes"  with  directions. 
check  shode:  □  Ught  Brovni  Q  Brown  □  Block 

Nome^ — 

Address . 

Town 


_State_ 


^100.° 


SONGWRITERS 

TO  THE  WRITES  OF  BESI  SONG  SEIECTED   EACH  MONTH 


Send  songs^poems.RecordSfCopies  furnished. Let  ushelp  youbeo  success. 

^HOUYWOOD  TUNESMITHS  "°L!:1.°.^!;';.°:'L° 


CHI-CHES-TERS 

#  Relieves  Monthly  Cramps 
In  9  out  of  10  Cases! 
Get  quick,  long-lasting  relief 
from  menstrual  pain,  nervous 
tension  and  headaches  with  Chi- 
Ches-Ters.  Clinical  tests  prove 
9  out  of  10  women  do.  Money 
back  if  not  relieved.  Purse  Pak 
50^.  Economy  sizes  $1.15  and 
$2.25  at  drug  stores  or  we  will  fill  direct  orders. 
FREE  BOOKLET  of  intimate  facts  mailed  in  plain 
envelope.  Write  today:  CHICHESTER  CHEMICAL 
COMPANY,  Dept.  17-S,  Philadelphia  46,  Pa. 

Amazing  Shampoo 

WAVES  HAIR 


^*^^*^ 


Vtfhile  You 

WASH  IT!  r 

Save  on  beaaty  parlor  and  home 
permanent  expense!  Now  wash 
your  hair  just  once  a  week  with  new 
MAGIC  WAVE  SHAMPOO  which 
contains  SPRAY  SET  lotion.  Get 
clean,  shining  hair  that  holds  waves 
and  curls  until  next  washing.  The  "SPRAY  SET"  Lotion 
in  Magic  Wave  Shampoo  adds  life,  beauty  and  high  lights 
to  dull  thin  hair  and  leaves  it  soft  and  glamorous.  You  just 
wash  your  hair— then  set  it!  Wonderful  for 
children's  and  teen  ager's  hair! 
Easy  to  Have  Lovely  Curis»  Waves  ... 
Always!  A  MAGIC  WAVE  SHAMPOO 
once  a  week  leaves  your  hair  in  perfect  con- 
dition to  reset  beautifully.  You  can  have 
curls,  or  comb  out  into  lovely  waves  such 
as  you've  never  had  before.  It's  the  Spray 
Set  lotion  in  MAGIC  WAVE  SHAMPOO 
that  keeps  your  hair  soft,  lovely  and  '  *man- 
ageable"  until  the  next  washing.  It's  easy,  simple,  quick. 
Send  name  and  address  with  only  $1.00  for  full  6  months 
supply  — sent  ppd.  Try  two  weeks.  If  not  delighted  return 
package  for  your  $1  back.  Order  now! 

MAGIC   CURLER,  Dept.  520 
8427S.  Chicago  Avenue, Chicago  IT.Iillnois 


SPRAY SET 

LOTION 

IS  RIGHT 

IN  THE 

SHAMPOO! 


85 


The  Romance  Of  Helen  Trent 


(Continued  from  page  66) 
Agatha!"  Helen  protested. 

"It's  my  opinion,"  said  Agatha,  "that 
you'd  marry  Gil  in  a  minute  if  he  asked 
you,  and  he  knows  it.  But  he  doesn't  ask." 

Helen  crumbled  a  bit  of  breakfast-roll 
between  her  fingers.  "I'd  marry  him,"  she 
admitted  slowly,  "and  he  does  know  it. 
But  Gil  is  very  proud!  He  thinks  I'd  be 
sacrificing  myself  if  I  married  him — " 

"And  I'd  say,"  said  Agatha,  "that  he's 
right." 

"He  needs,"  said  Helen,  distressed,  "to 
feel  that  he's  giving,  not  taking.  Don't  you 
see?  He  gave  up  his  independence  to 
work  for  Kurt.  That  hurts  his  pride.  He 
had  that — accident,  and  it  hurts  his  pride 
that  he  was  helpless  for  a  while,  and  I 
think  he  suspects  he  isn't  over  all  the 
effects  yet.  I  know  he  isn't!  So — it's  pride 
that  makes  him  resent  Kurt's  being  at- 
tracted to  me.  If  he  weren't  the  really  fine 
person  he  is  inside,  it  would  tickle  his 
vanity  that  I'd  marry  him  rather  than  a 
multi-millionaire.  .  .  .  But,  at  that,  Kurt 
hasn't  asked  me  to  marry  him.  I  don't 
think  he  ever  will." 

"If  I  were  inclined  to  bet,"  said  Agatha, 
"I'd  make  a  small  wager  to  the  contrary. 
Shari — " 

"Shari's  a  darling!"  said  Helen.  "But 
it's  nonsense  for  her  to  scheme  to  bring 
Kurt  and  me  together.  I'm  sure  Kurt 
doesn't  approve.  But — about  Gil — he  loves 
me  and  I  know  it.  It's  that  he's  so  terribly 
proud  he  wants  to  give  me  everything  he 
can  imagine  me  wanting.  That's  the  trou- 
ble! He  can't  believe  he  can  give  me 
enough!" 

Agatha  got  up  from  the  breakfast-table, 
carrying  her  cup.  "There's  one  thing,"  she 
said  drily,  "that  he  makes  no  attempt  to 
give  you.  Doesn't  the  man  know  that  a 
woman  likes  a  little  peace  of  mind  some- 
times?" Then  she  said  impulsively,  "For- 
get it,  Helen!  I  used  a  friend's  privilege  to 
say  I  think  you're  foolish.  But  what 
woman  isn't  a  fool  about  a  man — or  men? 
It'll  all  come  out  somehow!  And  you've 
had  one  good  night's  rest,  anyhow.  Don't 
waste  its  effects  by  worrying.  Take  it 
easy.  At  least  nothing  harrowing  is  apt 
to  happen  for  the  next  day  or  two!  No 
fusses  about  dinners,  or  corsages,  or  what 
you  meant  by  saying  this  or  that — " 

She  caught  herself.  She  went  out.  Helen 
smiled  after  her,  but  with  her  lips  only.  It 
was  true  that  she'd  slept  more  peacefully 


because  she  didn't  have  Gil's  self-tortur- 
ing doubts  and  suspicions  and  moods  to 
anticipate  today.  She  was  sure,  though, 
that  those  things  were  caused  by  past 
events  and  past  sufferings  and  past  mis- 
takes. They  weren't  really  Gil — just  what 
had  happened  to  him.  But  when  he  came 
back,  just  the  same.  ... 

It  struck  her  with  something  like  a 
shock  that  she  felt  tense  at  the  thought  of 
Gil's  return.  It  was  because  he  could  hurt 
her  so  much,  and  did.  When  he  doubted 
her,  when  he  suspected  her,  when  he 
probed  into  what  she'd  meant  by  some 
unconsidered  phrase,  he  suffered,  too. 
But.  .  .  . 

She  closed  her  mind  resolutely  against 
the  idea  that  it  was  all  hopeless.  She  said 
aloud,  to  herself,  I'm  going  to  think  about 
Shari.  I  won't  think  of  anybody  but  Shari. 

It  was  three  in  the  afternoon  when  the 
phone  rang.  Her  heart  jumped,  and  then 
she  remembered  that  it  wouldn't  be  Gil. 
He  was  away.  It  might  very  well  be  Shari. 
There  were  not  many  days  when  Shari 
did  not  find  some  excuse  to  see  her,  or  at 
the  very  least  to  telephone.  She  went  to 
answer  it. 

It  was  Kurt  Bonine's  secretary,  Quen- 
tin  Smith.  "Mrs.  Trent,"  said  his  silky 
voice  in  the  receiver,  "Mr.  Bonine  has 
asked  me  to  try  to  locate  his  niece  Shari. 
Has  she,  by  any  chance,  been  in  touch 
with  you?" 

"Why — no,"  said  Helen,  startled.  "I 
haven't  spoken  to  her  today.  Is  anything 
the  matter?" 

"I  would  say  not,"  said  Quentin,  as 
silkily  as  before.  There  was  something  un- 
usual about  his  voice.  Helen  had  an  odd 
impression  that  he  was  raging  inwardly, 
as  though  some  obscure  plan  of  his  own 
had  gone  wrong.  But  there  shouldn't  be 
any  reason  for  him  to  rage  about  any- 
thing Shari  did.  "Mr.  Bonine  is  anxious 
to  get  in  touch  with  her,"  Quentin  con- 
tinued. "He  seems  quite  pleased  about 
something.  I  am  sure  that  you  will  be 
pleased,  too." 

"Me  pleased  because  Kur — Mr.  Bonine 
is  pleased?"  Helen  was  puzzled.  "Just  why 
do  you  say  that?" 

"My  dear  Mrs.  Trent!"  said  Quentin. 
There  was  nothing  to  put  a  finger  on,  but 
Helen  felt  that  his  voice  expressed  some- 
thing close  to  screaming  fury.  "Aren't  you 
pleased  when  Mr.  Bonine  is  pleased  with 
Gil  Whitney?  And  when  he's  pleased  with 


86 


ANSWERS 

TO  CROSSWORD 

PUZZLE  ON 

PAGE  13 

ACROSS 

29. 

Yr 

DOWN 

26. 

Wilson 

30. 

Alice 

27. 

NC 

1.  Dave 

32. 

Fat 

1. 

Dorothy 

28. 

Dad 

5.  Roy 

33. 

Sol 

2. 

Are 

31. 

Ernie 

8.  Epic 

34. 

Lid 

3. 

Vallee 

32. 

Firs 

12.  Oral 

35. 

Cash 

4. 

Elia 

34. 

Loud 

13.  Abe 

37. 

Senior 

5. 

Rain 

35. 

Ceil 

14.  Bara 

41. 

Else 

6. 

Oboe 

36. 

SS 

15.   Religion 

42. 

Odious 

7. 

Yen 

38. 

Ed 

17.  Omar 

45. 

Son 

8. 

Ebony 

39. 

lone 

18.  Laine 

45. 

End 

9. 

Pam 

40. 

Mary 

19.  An 

46. 

Mr 

10. 

Iron 

44. 

Oh 

20.  NH 

47. 

Lot 

II. 

Carhart 

46. 

May 

21.  Toe 

51. 

Pay 

16. 

Gigolo 

48. 

Of 

23.  Faye 

52. 

Foy 

19. 

AAA 

49. 

To 

24.  Hoedown 

53. 

Eve 

22. 

Oorial 

50. 

TV 

28.  Dr 

54. 

Gay 

25. 

Dashes 

51. 

Pa 

Shari?  I  thought  you  were  always  pleased 
when  Mr.  Bonine  is  pleased!"  As  if  he 
realized  that  he  had  gone  too  far  in  sar- 
casm, he  abruptly  said,  "Goodbye,"  and 
hung  up. 

Helen  replaced  the  instrument.  She  was 
simply,  blankly  amazed.  But  it  was  prob- 
ably reasonable  enough  for  Kurt  to  have 
his  secretary  call  her  if  he  wanted  to 
reach  Shari.  Only  he  wasn't  usually  very 
solicitous  about  her.  There  had  been  only 
one  love  in  all  his  past  life — Shari's  moth- 
er. But  his  own  brother  had  married  her, 
and  she  died  when  Shari  was  born.  Then 
Shari's  father  died  afterward.  Kurt  had 
accepted  responsibility  for  his  niece,  but 
he  gave  her  nothing  of  himself.  Only  late- 
ly, within  the  past  years,  had  he  allowed 
her  to  make  her  home  with  himi.  Before 
that,  she'd  lived  the  year  'round  at  board- 
ing schools  and  camps. 

But  Cadora  alone  was  only  a  cold 
home,  though  it  was  a  vast  rich  pile  of  a 
mansion.  Helen  had  dined  there  once, 
with  Shari  and  Kurt.  She  winced  at  the 
memories  it  roused.  Poor  Gil  had  been 
half -mad  with  jealousy  then,  even  while 
he  insisted  that  she  go.  He  made  her  go, 
out  of  his  seeming  instinct  to  self-torture, 
because  he  believed  Kurt  was  drawn  to 
her  as  the  first  woman  he'd  looked  at 
since  Shari's  mother  died.  He  made  her 
go  because  he  knew  that  Shari — young 
and  sweet  and  terribly  lonely — longed  des- 
perately for  a  home  and  family  such  as 
she'd  never  had.  And  Gil  insisted — and 
raged — exactly  because  .  .  .  transparently, 
ingenuously,  with  a  pathetic  attempt  at 
guile  .  .  .  Shari  was  trying  to  bring  about 
a  romance  between  Helen,  whom  she  wor- 
shipped, and  the  uncle  who  would  not 
permit  her  to  love  him. 

That  was  another  time  when  Quentin 
had  seemed  to  speak  silkily  as  a  cover  for 
rage.  Now.  .  .  .  The  meaning  of  things 
suddenly  struck  home.  Nothing  happened 
to  cause  it.  She  continued  to  sit  where 
she  had  sat  to  answer  the  phone.  But  ab- 
ruptly she  guessed.  Everything.  And  she 
knew  the  guess  was  right.  For  some  time 
past,  now,  Shari  had  been  quoting  her 
uncle  to  Helen.  Breathlessly,  when  she 
talked  to  Helen,  she  cited  him  as  saying 
things  that  could  not  be  less  than  indica- 
tions of  interest  in  Helen  equalling  any- 
thing poor  Gil  had  suspected.  When  Shari 
spoke  so,  Helen  had  pretended  not  to 
notice.  She'd  suspected  that  Shari  was 
twisting  and  exaggerating  things  a  little 
because  of  her  longing  for  a  home  and  fam- 
ily such  as  only  Helen  and  her  uncle  Kurt 
could  constitute.  Helen  had  long  since 
admitted  to  herself,  in  honesty,  that— if 
she  didn't  love  Gil— Kurt  would  be  mar- 
velously  attractive  .  .  .  rich  and  handsome 
and  with  an  inner  strength  that  poor  Gil 
wotdd  never  have. 

But  now  she  knew  more.  She  was  at 
once  appalled  and  oddly  touched  by  what 
she  realized.  Because,  of  course,  Shari 
would  have  used  the  same  tactics  on 
Kurt.  She'd  have  quoted  Helen  to  him, 
relating  things  Helen  had  said — all  out 
of  context — to  give  him  the  impression 
that  Helen  gladly  talked  to  Shari  about 
him.  And  Shari'd  maneuvered  her,  some- 
times, into  saying  things  that  could  be 
encouraging  to  a  man  who  needed  only 
encouragement.  There  were  times  when 
she  had  to  agree  to  words  Shari  put  into 
her  mouth,  or  else  hurt  the  intense  and 
starry-eyed  young  girl  who  schemed  so 
transparently  and  so  touchingly.  But  it 
might  have  worked,  to  the  degree  that 
Kurt  now  discoimted  Gil's  seemingly  pre- 
ferred status. 

Helen  wanted  at  once  to  be  annoyed 
and   to    feel    sympathy    for    Shari.    In    all 


innocence,  Shari  couldn't  realize  what  she 
did.  She  was  simply,  passionately  anx- 
ious to  have  Helen  in  the  place  of  a  moth- 
er, because  she  adored  her,  and  she  hoped 
that  then  Kurt  would  become  in  some 
sense  a  father— and  then  she  would  live 
in  a  home  and  a  family.  ... 

But  suddenly  Helen  felt  the  old  familiar 
panic.  If  Gil  ever  heard  about  this,  he'd 
never  believe  Helen  wasn't  a  party  to  it! 
He  would  brood  and  storm  and  upbraid 
her.  He  would  be  filled  with  bitterness  and 
frantic  jealousy.  Life  would  be  sheer 
misery.  "Then  Helen  wept,  quite  alone,  be- 
cause she  was  so  desperately  weary  of 
being  doubted  by  the  man  she  loved.  She 
was  so  terribly  weary  of  allaying  his  sus- 
picions. She  was  exhausted  with  placating 
his  jealousy,  with  trying  to  make  him  be- 
lieve in  her  love,  when  no  sooner  had 
one  jealous  suspicion  been  laid,  than  some 
ever  more  wretched  suspicion  took  its 
place.  .  .  . 

When  Shari  arrived  with  a  huge  bou- 
quet of  flowers,  it  was  close  to  sunset. 
Shari's  eyes  were  shining,  and  pure  rap- 
ture showed  on  her  face.  Helen  felt  a 
composure  which  was  almost  the  apathy 
of  exhaustion.  Sometimes  one  is  too  worn 
out  with  feeling  to  feel  anything  any 
longer.  She  greeted  Shari  pleasantly,  des- 
pite her  conviction  of  what  Shari  had 
done,  in  her  innocence  and  loneliness.  But 
she  felt  that  she  did  not  care.  Through 
sheer  weariness,  she  had  come  at  long  last 
to  face  the  facts.  Gil  would  never  let  either 
her  or  himself  be  happy.  He  would  tor- 
ment ihem.  both,  even  if  they  married.  He 
could  never  believe  fully  in  her  love.  So 
her  love  was  futile. 

With  that  knowledge  in  her  mind,  she 
tried  to  smile  at  Shari.  It  was  not  success- 
ful. She  knew  she  had  made  no  new  de- 
cision. She  had  only  accepted  the  knowl- 
edge that  Gil  was  Gil,  and  would  never 
be  otherwise  .  .  .  and,  if  marriage  to  him 
did  come  about,  it  would  be  tragedy  for 
both  of  them.  "The  acceptance  of  the  fact 
was  numbing.  With  a  dreary  lack  of  re- 
volt, she  found  herself  thinking  absurdly 
that,  if  Kurt  did  want  to  marry  her,  and 
she  did  marry  him,   at  least   one   person 


would  be  happy.  Shari.  Maybe  Kurt  in 
his  fashion  would  be  content.  For  herself 
there  could  never  be  happiness  without 
Gil,  and  Gil  would  never  let  anybody  be 
happy  with  him.  But  there  might  be  peace 
in  ceasing  to  strive  for  happiness. 

"Mrs.  Trent!"  said  Shari  in  the  doorway, 
glowing  and  radiant  and  the  very  portrait 
of  joyfulness.  "I've  the  most  wonderful 
news!  Uncle  Kurt — has  given  me  a  mes- 
sage to  deliver  to  you,  and  I — think  you'll 
guess  what  it  really  means.  .  .  ."  Tears 
glistened  in  her  eyes.  "I'm — so  happy,  and 
— maybe  you'll  think  it's  silly,  but — " 

She  still  had  not  passed  the  threshold. 
A  uniformed  youth  appeared  outside.  He 
carried  a  yellow  envelope  in  his  hand.  He 
marched  up.  "Mrs.  Trent?  Telegram.  Sign 
here,  please." 

"Thank  you,"  said  Helen.  She  signed. 
She  smiled  at  Shari,  who  trembled  with  a 
rejoicing  that  could  only  mean  she  was 
sure  she  was  about  to  realize  the  utter- 
most longing  of  her  heart  .  .  .  security  in 
the  love  of  those  who  belonged  to  her. 

Helen  opened  the  yellow  envelope  with 
fingers  that  had  no  feeling  in  them.  As 
the  paper  tore,  she  felt  as  if  she  were  tear- 
ing away  the  bonds  of  pain  and  anguish 
which  bound  her  to  Gil.  "I'm  sure,"  she 
said,  "that  anything  which  makes  you  so 
happy—" 

"It — it  will  make  you  happy  too,"  said 
Shari,  glowing.  "It — it  has  to!  You're 
the — "  Then  she  stopped,  startled  and 
frightened.  Every  trace  of  color  had  van- 
ished from  Helen's  cheeks.  "Mrs.  Trent! 
Mrs.  Trent!  What's  the  matter?" 

Helen  could  not  speak.  The  telegram 
was  from  Gil.  He  was  in  trouble.  Deep 
trouble.  He  did  not  name  it,  but  the  fact 
that  he  was  in  trouble  was  enough.  Trem- 
bling, Helen  said,  "I'm  sorry.  I  have  bad 
news.  I — have  to  go  at  once.  At  once!  I — 
can't  listen  to  you  now,  Shari!  Nothing 
matters  but  .  .  ." 

She  wrung  her  hands  as  she  went  swift- 
ly for  a  hat  and  coat  and  money  with 
which  to  go  at  once  to  Gil.  Happiness? 
Unhappiness?  What  did  happiness  matter 
when  she  loved  Gil  and  he  needed  her? 


Happy  Birthday,  Robert  Q. 


(CoJitinued  from  page  49) 
But  I'll  tell  you  now  that  I  couldn't  be 
happier — despite  the  fact  that  what  pre- 
cipitated my  return  was  not,  on  the  face 
of  it,  of  a  happy-making  nature!  Last 
year,  I  got  fired  at  CBS.  Fired,  that  is, 
from  CBS-TV.  Did  I  mind  very  much? 
At  the  time,  I  minded — sure.  When  you've 
been  on  TV  regularly,  day  by  day,  for  six 
solid  years,  you  can't  take  a  thing  like 
that  lightly.  For  me,  however,  the  shock 
was  somewhat  lessened  by  the  fact  that 
I  saw  it  coming,  had  seen  it  coming  for 
some  time.  And,  moreover,  had  it  com- 
ing! The  ratings  were  going  down.  Who- 
ever you  may  be,  when  the  ratings  go 
down,  you  go  down  with  them — and  some- 
times out. 

"The  ratings  were  going  down,"  Bob 
says  with  characteristic  honesty,  "because 
I  had  been  on  TV  too  long  and  too 
much  .  .  .  for  so  long  and  so  much  that,  in 
many  households,  I  was  more  familiar  to 
the  housewife  than  her  own  husband. 
This  ain't  good,"  Bob  grins.  "If  you  stop 
to  think  of  it,  most  of  us  don't  see  our 
best  and  most  intimate  friends  more  than 
two  or  three  times  a  week.  If  we  should 
see  them  more  often,  the  compulsion,  so 
to  speak,  wouldn't  be  there.  Friends  and 
audiences  alike,  they've  got  to  want  to 
see  you.  If  you  satiate  them,  sooner  or 
later — but  inevitably — you  will  get  the  oh- 


it's-you-again  reaction.  I  don't  think  I 
got  to  the  point  where  my  TV  audiences 
won't  care  if  they  never  see  me  again,  but 
the  welcome  mat  was  beginning  to  show 
frayed  edges! 

"So  I'm  sort  of  glad  I  was  jolted  out  of 
it  all  before  I  reached  the  point  of  no  re- 
turn," says  Robert  Q.  "Glad  that,  as  a 
result  of  the  jolting,  I'm  back  again — full 
circle — in  radio,  where  I  began.  It's  true 
that  radio  doesn't  do  quite  as  much  for 
your  ego  as  TV  does.  There's  a  lot  of 
narcissism  in  all  of  us  ..  .  love  of  our  own 
reflection  in  a  mirror,  or  on  a  screen. 

"But  if  radio,  as  compared  with  TV, 
subtracts  a  small  sum  from  the  ego,  what 
it  adds  to  your  health  and  life  expectancy 
is  compensation-plus.  You  can't  be  quite 
as  relaxed  and  easy-does-it  on  a  night- 
time as  on  a  daytime  show.  But,  day  or 
night,  it's  easier  to  do  six  hours  of  radio  a 
day  than  one  half-hour  of  TV  a  week. 
Compared  with  the  amount  of  rehearsing 
you  are  obliged  to  do  for  TV,  radio  re- 
hearsals are  a  ball.  There  are  no  cos- 
tumes to  worry  about.  No  make-up.  No 
sets.     Above  all,  no  physical  restrictions. 

"Suppose  I  want  to  do  a  'scene'  in  the 
African  desert.  Or  in  the  deirk  jungles 
of  the  Belgian  Congo.  Or  in  Paris — then 
cut  over  to  London.  Or  visit  the  moon. 
Or  hold  a  conversation  with  a  couple  of 
Martians  on  their  native  soU.     What's  to 


Special  New  Tablet 

Relieves  Monthly  Cramps 

for3  out  of  4  in  Tests! 


Amazing  new  formula  developed 

especially  for  female  distress  gives 

greater  relief  than  aspirin  I 

If  you  dread  those  "difficult  days"  each 
month,  listen!  Science  has  developed  a 
special  new  tablet  to  relieve  pain,  cramps, 
and  tense  feelings  of  monthly  periods! 
It  contains  a  unique  combination  of  medi- 
cines— including  blood-building  iron. 
Thus  offers  more  relief  than  plain  aspirin! 

In  doctors'  tests  painful  distress  was 
relieved  for  3  out  of  4  women!  Many 
didn't  suffer  even  on  the  first  day!  They 
also  escaped  much  of  the  jitters  and  un- 
happy tension  so  common  as  you  ap- 
proach that  trying  time  of  month. 

So  don't  suffer  needlessly.  Ask  for 
"Lydia  Pinkham  Tablets"  at  drug  stores. 
No  prescription  needed.  See  if  they  don't 
help  you  feel  worlds  better — both  before 
and  during  your  period! 


|<«<'HIGH  SCHOOLh^me 


>  No  classes  to  attend.  Easy  spare-time  train-  V 
ling  covers  big  choice  of  subjects.  Friendly \ 
\  instructors;  standard  texts.  Full  credit  fori 

previous  schooling.     Diploma  awarded.! 

Write  now  for  FREE  catalog  HH-4e.         I 

WAYNE  SCHOOL  utiim^^inst.)     i 

r  2527  SheHield  Ave.,  Chicago  14,  Illinois/ 


67- 


«Ny  PHOTO  EHURtED 

Size  8  X  10  Inches 

on  DOUBLE-WEIGHT  Paper 

Same  price  for  fall  lensth  or  bust 
form,  groups,  landscapes,  pet  ani- 
mals, etc.,  or  enlargements  of  any 
part  of  a  groap  pictnre.  Original  is 
returned  with  your  enlargement. 

SendNoMoney  3  for^po 

Jast  mail  photo,  negative  or  enap- 
ehot  (any  size)  and  receive  year  enlargement, 
irnaranteed  fadeless,  on  beaatifal  double  •weight 
portrait  quality  paper.  Pay  postman  67c  pins 
postage— or  send  69c  with  order  and  we  pay  post- 
age. Take  advantageof  this  amazing  offer.  Send  your  photos  today. 

Professional  Art  Studios,  544  S.  Main,  Dept  37- E.  Princeton,  Illinois 

Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 
New  Way  Without  Surgery 

Science  Finds  Healing  Substance  That 
Relieves  Pain— Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 

For  the  first  time  science  has  found  a 
new  healing  substance  with  the  astonishing 
ability  to  shrink  hemorrhoids  and  to  relieve 
pain  —  without  surgery. 

In  case  after  case,  while  gently  relieving 
pain,  actual  reduction  (shrinkage)  took 
place. 

Most  amazing  of  all  —  results  were  so 
thorough  that  sufferers  made  astonishing 
statements  like  "Piles  have  ceased  to  be  a 
problem!" 

The   secret   is   a   new   healing   substance 
(Bio-Dyne*)  — discovery  of  a  world-famous         J 
research  institute. 

This  substance  is  now  available  in  sup-        " 
pository  or  ointment  form  under  the  name 
Preparation  H.*  Ask  for  it  at  all  drug  count- 
ers—money back  guarantee.    *Beg.  u.  S.  Pat.  Off. 


stop  me?  Not  a  thing.  On  radio,  I  can  go 
where  I  please — quickly,  easily,  and  prac- 
tically for  free. 

"On  radio,  you  have  scope.  Your  mo- 
bility is  limitless.  Your  imagination  takes 
wing.  So  does  the  imagination  of  the  lis- 
tener. One  of  the  most  beautiful  things 
any  human  being  has  is  his  or  her  imagi- 
nation. On  TV,  where  everything  is 
mapped  out  for  the  viewer,  the  imagina- 
tion is  practically  useless.  But  on  radio, 
where  nothing  is  visible,  it  is  in  his  own 
imagination  that  the  listener  conceives 
the  set  in  which  we  play  our  scenes  and 
the  characters  with  whom  the  sets  are 
peopled.  I  call  a  show  like  ours  a  'do-it- 
yourself  spectacular.' 

"Another  wonderful  thing  about  radio," 
Bob  says,  with  warm  appreciation,  "is 
that  you  can  get  great  actors  to  work  with 
you — such  as  Kenny  Delmar,  for  instance, 
Louis  Nye,  Parker  Fennelly  .  .  .  Ann 
Thomas,  who  is  a  great  radio  actress,  and 
Pert  Kelton,  who  is  a  great,  great  voice. 
You  can  get  them  because,  relatively 
speaking,  radio  doesn't  require  too  much 
of  their  time.  Nor  are  they  afraid  of  'over- 
exposure,' too-frequent  appearances,  as 
they  tend  to  be  on  TV. 

"Radio.  That's  where  I  am,  after  these 
ten  years.  As  to  what  I  am — well,  a  much 
pleasanter  fellow,  I  hope,  than  when  I 
first  came  to  CBS  and  got  myself  the  repu- 
tation of  being  'difficult  to  work  with.'  De- 
servedly, too.  I  didn't  mean  to  be  diffi- 
cult. But,  short-tempered  as  I  am  by 
nattire,  and  the  strain  at  the  time  being 
pretty  nervous-making,  I'd  lash  out  at 
people  who  didn't  deserve  to  be  lashed 
out  at  .  .  .  people  who  would  have  been 
kind,  if  I'd  given  them  the  chance  to  be. 
One  of  the  most  rewarding  things  that  has 
happened  to  me,  in  these  ten  years,  is 
hearing  that  many  of  these  same  people 
now  say,  'Gad,  how  Bob  has  changed— 
Working  with  him  now,  it's  wonderful!' 

"I'm  a  very  grateful  guy  today.  There 
are  so  many  people  to  whom  I  owe  so 
very  much:  Goodman  Ace,  who  gave  me 
my  start  in  radio  by  writing  my  first  show, 
The  Robert  Q.  Lewis  Little  Show.  After 
ten  years  of  knowing  him.  Goody  remains 
one  of  my  real  idols.  ...  A  gentleman 
named  Bill  Paley  (head  man  of  CBS) ,  who 
has  never  lost  faith  in  me  all  these  years — 
not  even  when  I  got  fired  at  CBS.  Paley 
couldn't  help  that.  He  had  to  listen  to 
people  around  him.  And  to  the  ratings  as 
they  dropped!  .  .  .  I'm  grateful  to  my 
agent,  Ted  Ashley,  who  has  been  with  me 
as  long  as  I've  had  an  agent.  An  office 
boy  at  the  William  Morris  agency  when 
he  was  first  assigned  to  handle  me,  Ted 
now  has  an  outfit  which  is  known  as  'the 
Tiffany  of  the  agencies.'  ...  I  also  owe  a 
great  deal  to  my  personal-relations  man, 
Lee  Solters,  who  has  been  with  me  for 
nine  of  these  uphill  years.  .  .  .  And,  of 
course,  to  my  writers,  Ray  Allen,  Harvey 
Bullock  and  Sid  Resnick. 

"And  I  am  forever  grateful,"  Bob  em- 
phasizes, "to  Arthur  Godfrey,  who  gave 
me  the  first  real  big  break  I  ever  had, 
when  he— and  Bill  Paley— chose  me  to 
replace  him  on  his  morning  show,  as  Peter 
Lind  Hayes  does  now,  and,  later,  on  his 
hour-long  Wednesday-night  TV  show. 
Which  reminds  me  of  an  amusing  bit:  The 
first  time  I  replaced  Godfrey  on  the  night 
show,  I  rehearsed,  the  week  through, 
wearing  my  glasses— without  which  I'm 
blinder  than  the  proverbial  bat.  When  we 
got  to  the  final,  dress  rehearsal,  just  be- 
fore the  show  went  on  the  air,  the  direc- 
tor said,  'Take  off  the  glasses.  Bob.  Can't 
wear  glasses  on  TV.  Yes,  yes,  I  know  you 
can't  see  without  them,  but  don't  worry — 
we'll  take  care  of  everything.' 

"Came  the  moment  of  going  on,"  Bob 
grms,  reminiscently.  "The  orchestra  tuned 
up,  Tony  Marvin  announced:   'Here  he  is, 


the  star  of  your  show — Robert  Q.  Lewis!' 
Down  stage  walked  'the  star  of  your 
show' — and  fell  into  the  orchestra  pit. 
After  that,  I  became  the  first  guy  on  TV 
ever  to  wear  glasses.  Now  there  are  quite 
a  few  of  us  in  the  be-spectacled  fra- 
ternity— Garroway,  Steve  Allen,  Wally 
Cox.  .  .  . 

"Speaking  of  replacing  Godfrey,  that 
isn't  half  of  it.  In  the  course  of  time,  I've 
replaced  Ed  Sullivan  once,  Jackie  Gleason 
twice.  Perry  Como— on  NBC! — a  couple  of 
times.  Once  replaced  a  girl,  too,  by  the 
name  of  Faye  Emerson.  For  years,  in 
fact,  I  was  known  as  'The  Great  Replace- 
ment.' 

"In  the  gratitude  department,"  Bob  re- 
simies.  "I  am  also  grateful  to  radio  and 
TV  for  having  given  me  a  lovely  nest  egg, 
so  that  I  need  never  work  again,  if  other- 
wise inclined.  (Thanks  also,  in  large 
part,  to  my  dad,  who  is  an  attorney  and 
advised  me  wisely  about  investments.) 
Thanks  to  the  nest  egg  and  its  state  of 
preservation,  I  am  able  to  live  pleasantly — 
which,  to  me,  means  living  simply.  I'm 
very  catholic  in  my  tastes  when  it  comes 
to  eating,  but  I  like  best  the  staple  foods. 


The  one  thing    "^ 
the  Iron  Curtain 
can't  lieep  out- 

Support  Radio  Free  Europe 
and  Free  Europe  Press 
with  Truth  Dollars 
to: 


CRUSADE  for  FREEDOM 

c/e  YOUR  lOCAl  POSTMASTER 

Published  as  a  public  service  in  coop- 
eration with  The  Advertising  CouncU        , 

Steak  and  potatoes,  for  instance.  And  my 
housekeeper,  Catherine  Bolger,  who  has 
been  with  me  for  about  seven  years,  makes 
the  best  Irish  stew  you  ever  ate. 

"I've  recently  bought  a  cooperative 
apartment,  here  in  New  York,  and  it's  as 
different  as  possible  from  the  place  I  va- 
cated when  I  moved.  Funny,  how  your 
taste  in  living  changes  over  the  years. 
Before  I  left  it,  the  living  room  in  the 
previous  apartment — which  I  once  thought 
so  darned  elegant,  with  its  Empire  and 
Regency  pieces— began  to  remind  me  of  a 
swank  funeral  parlor.  I  felt  'laid  out,' 
when  I  sat  in  it.  Now  my  whole  place  is 
contemporary.  Livable.  Tiled  floors,  with 
yellow  rugs— some  of  the  walls  are  yellow, 
others  white.  The  contemporary  furniture 
is  comfortable  and  big. 

"Most  of  the  totem  poles  I  used  to  collect 
have  been  disposed  of,"  Bob  adds.  "Of  my 
various  collections,  the  only  one  that  re- 
mains— aside  from  my  books  and  records, 
of  course — is  my  collection  of  Venetian 
clowns  and  clown  paintings.  Actually,  I 
have  now  reached  the  point  in  life  where 
there  is  no  material  thing  I  really  want. 
And  it's  a  lovely  place  to  be.  You're  free. 
You  can  pick  up  and  leave  without  a 
backward  look— as  I  do,  when  I  go  to 
Europe  once  a  year.  If  fire  should  sud- 
denly break  out  and  threaten  my  posses- 
sions, the  only  one  I  would  risk  a  singed 
finger  to  save  would  be  Roue,  my  poodle! 


"Perhaps  what  everything  I've  said  boils 
down  to  is  that  I  have  now  reached  the 
goal  which  I  so  badly  needed  to  reach  as 
a  child.  To  be  recognized.  As  a  kid,  I 
was  asthmatic.  Couldn't  play  football  or 
baseball.  Couldn't  join  in  any  of  the 
physical  activities  of  the  other  kids.  With 
the  result  that  I  might  have  been  invisible, 
for  all  the  notice  they  took  of  me.  Then 
I  hit  on  the  one  thing  I  could  do  and  keep 
breathing — be  funny.  Whereupon  the  whok 
picture  changed.  Instead  of  my  being  ig- 
nored and  left  behind,  the  kids  woiild 
say,  'Hey,  let's  bring  him  along.  Even  if 
he  can't  play  tackle,  he's  good  for  laughs.' 
This  was  the  beginning  of  my  obsession  to  ' 
be  in  show  business,  where — ^if  I  could 
still  be  good  for  laughs — I  would  continue 
to  be  recognized,  'accepted,'  by  my  fellow 
human  beings. 

"That's  what  I  have  got  in  the  past 
ten  years  that  is  of  value,  real  value,  to 
myself,"  Bob  says  simply.  "Not  that  this 
goal  is  a  stopping-place,  by  any  means. 
One  thing  I'm  rather  proud  of  is  that  I've 
never  allowed  myself  to  stagnate,  nor  my 
interests  to  diminish.  Right  now,  I'm  taking 
dancing  lessons  and  singing  lessons,  and 
I'm  also  studying  acting  with  Stella  Adler. 
I  love  summer  stock,  which  I've  been 
doing,  off  and  on,  for  the  past  few  years, 
restricting  myself  to  light  comedy,  so  far. 
I  want  to  do  a  play  on  Broadway,  and  X  , 
will  soon  be  making  a  picture  in  Holly4J 
wood.  f  1 

"On  TV,  I'd  like  to  restrict  my  activities 
to  dramatic  shows.  Or,  if  I  should  again 
be  on  TV  with  any  degree  of  regularity, 
I'd  like  it  to  be  a  sort  of  panel  thing.  Or 
as  the  emcee  of  a  variety  show — but 
something  easygoing.  In  addition,  there  are 
all  kinds  of  things  I  want  to  do,  places 
want  to  go.  I'd  like  to  learn  how  to  cook. 
Want  to  paint  some  day. 

"As  to  what  I  have  given  that  is  of  som^ 
value  to  others,  in  the  ten-year  perio' 
now  under  the  microscope,"  Bob  reflects, 
"well,  some  laughs,  I  hope,  some  easemen 
of  the  heavy  going  these  years  have  been' 
because  of  the  state  of  the  world.  And  I  like 
to  think  I've  been  good  luck  to  some  of 
the  people  with  whom  I've  been  associated 
.  .  .  Rosemary  and  Betty  Clooney,  Jaye 
P.  Morgan  and  the  Ames  Brothers,  for 
instance,  have  gone  on  from  my  shows 
to  singing  stardom  on  their  own.  One  of 
the  directors  we  had  with  us  for  a  time, 
on  The  Show  Goes  On,  was  a  fellow  by 
the  name  of  Yul  Brynner.  The  names  of 
some  of  the  greatest  writers  in  the  busi- 
ness today  are  on  our  honor  roll  .  .  .  Paddy 
Chayevsky,  of  'Marty'  fame,  and  George 
Axelrod,  who  wrote  'The  Seven  Year  Itch.* 

"There's  one  thing  I  would  like  very 
much  to  do  on  TV,  and  that's  a  show  on 
which  I  would  showcase  and  present  young 
talent.  Godfrey  is  doing  it,  to  some  extent, 
on  his  Talent  Scouts.  But  I  would  like  to 
do  it  more  so — give  it  more  setting,  more 
time,  to  give  the  kids  even  more  of  a 
chance.  If  ever  I  stop  performing,  I  won't 
get  out  of  this  business.  I'll  go  into  the 
active  management  and  presentation  of 
young  talent.  I  feel  I've  learned  enough 
from  my  own  experience  to  be  able  to 
guide  youngsters  away  from  the  pitfalls. 
And  the  heartaches.  Some  of  them,  anyway. 
What  I've  also  learned  during  these  years 
is  that,  when  you  reach  the  goal — or  one 
of  them — on  which  you've  set  your  sights, 
you'd  better  move  over  and  make  room 
for  others.  Help  them  get  up  there,  as 
you  have  been  helped. 

"In  the  meantime,"  Robert  Q.  sums  up, 
"I'd  like  to  continue  with  the  radio  shows 
for  quite  a  time.  I  like  this  degree  of 
frequency  on  the  air.  I'm  very  pleased 
with  the  response  we're  getting  from  our 
listening  audience.  To  those  of  you  who 
are  not  currently  in  our  audience,  I  say 
again:   Come  back  to  radio!" 


Command  Performiaiice 


(Continued  from  page  12) 
important  that  laughter  is  .  .  .  how  neces- 
sary that  the  show  go  on.  .  .  . 

"Tragedy  comes  to  the  great — please 
don't  let  us  down."  And,  "We  all  love 
you  and  pray  for  you  in  your  hour  of 
woe."  And,  "Please,  Red — keep  on  making 
the  laughter  the  world  needs  so." 

There  are  letters  to  Richard,  offering 
him  a  Shetland  pony  to  ride.  Letters  like 
that  of  three  little  boys  who  live  on  a 
farm  near  Comanche,  Oklahoma:  "I  don't 
know  whether  you  know  where  Oklahoma 
is,  but  this  is  where  the  first  cowboy  was^ 
born — no  matter  what  Texas  says."  .  .  . 
Telling  about  their  animals  and  their 
chores  and  how  much  they  like  Richard's 
dad:   "He's  the  one  who  makes  us  laugh." 

People  of  all  faiths,  Protestant,  Chris- 
tian Scientist,  Jewish  and  Catholic,  want 
Red  to  know  they're  praying  for  him.  An 
industrialist  in  Chicago  says,  "My  sym- 
pathy won't  help— but  there  is  power  in 
prayer."  A  lady  in  Baltimore  sends  a 
little  bag  of  dust:  "I  brought  this  back 
myself  when  I  was  in  Rome  for  the  Holy 
Year — please  pin  this  to  his  undergar- 
ments nearest  his  heart."  Another  has 
written  to  nuns  and  priests  all  over  the 
world,  and  Bishop  Sheen,  and  to  Rome — 
and  "Heaven  must  hear." 

At  Temple  Knesseth  Israel  in  Los  An- 
geles, the  congregation  prayed  for  Rich- 
ard's recovery,  and  an  anonymous  doner 
gave  $1,000  to  spur  a  fund  for  research. 

Spiritual  gifts  and  symbols  of  faith  keep 
pouring  in.  Mezuzahs,  green  scapulars,  and 
St.    Christopher   medals. 

Red,  touched  to  tears  by  such  an  over- 
whelming expression  of  concern,  was 
quick  to  say,  from  the  first,  "I  want  every 
letter  answered — and  I  want  to  sign  every 
one  of  them  myself."  In  Georgia's  opinion, 
"If  anybody  takes  this  much  interest  in 
our  little  son,  to  sit  down  and  compose 
a  letter,  they  deserve  a  personally  signed 
reply." 

In  an  hour  when  Red  needs  them  most, 
they're  all  there.  Offering  hope  and  faith. 
Giving  suggestions  for  diet  and  treatment. 
Offering  to  be  blood  donors,  if  need  be. 
And  there  are  letters  from  children  en- 
closing a  dollar  bill — for  Red  to  start  a 
fund  for  research  for  the  dreaded  disease. 

For  all  the  thousands  who  write.  Red 
has  a  message:  "The  seconds,  as  they  tick 
away,  seem  to  add  confusion  when  told 
of  tragic  news.  Faith  in  God  is  our 
only  hope.     So  we  are  praying. 

"At  first  we  felt  so  useless — ^just  another 
mother  and  father  asking  for  help.  Then 
came  the  kindness  of  unsolicited  friends 
like  you,  whose  concern  was  unbeknown 
to  us  .  .  .  friends  who  have  gone  beyond 
their  station  of  purpose,  taken  leave  of 
their  own  problems  and  offered  prayers 
and  helpful  information  which  we  are 
certain  will  bring  around  God's  intended 
goal  for  our  son." 

There  are  well-meaning  wires  with  diet 
suggestions,  such  as  that  received  regard- 
ing "an  ancient  cure  in  our  family  that 
has  cured  my  own  wife — a  broth  made 
from  the  tendons  of  Chinese  deer  and 
green  duck  eggs."  A  commentator  re- 
ports a  child  in  Rhode  Island  has  been 
cured  of  leukemia  in  a  year  and  a  half 
by  a  special  cod  liver  oil.  An  anonymous 
well-wisher  leaves  a  bottle  of  herb  juice 
at  U.C.L.A.  Medical  Center,  tagged,  "For 
Richard  Skelton."  All  are  appreciated. 

Calls  are  constantly  coming  in  from  those 
who  know  of  families  with  children  suffer- 
ing from  the  disease,  and  who  think  there 
is  merit  in  the  treatment  being  used.  These 
calls  are  aU  noted  and  some  member  of 
the  Skelton  family  follows  through,  asking, 
"How  old  is  he?    How  long  has  he  had  it?" 


Throughout  the  country  now,  scores  of 
"medical  scouts"  are  anxiously  passing 
along  to  Red  Skelton  any  personal  knowl- 
edge they  have  of  the  disease  or  that 
which  they've  heard.  And  every  lead, 
every  suggestion,  all  the  advice — every 
call,  every  letter,  every  wire — is  carefully 
screened  and  passed  on  to  the  medical 
authorities  at  U.C.L.A.  Medical  Center, 
who,  in  turn,  pursue  every  credible  lead. 

No  lead  is  unpursued — even  unto  the 
Ecuadorian  jungles.  Eddie  "Rochester" 
Anderson  called  Red  about  a  doctor  in 
Ecuador  who  reportedly  has  a  very  pro- 
ductive treatment.  Within  minutes,  the 
Skeltons  were  contacting  the  Consul  of 
Ecuador  in  Los  Angeles  for  further  infor- 
mation— and  discovering  that  the  doctor 
in  question  was  expected  in  the  States 
soon.  The  hospital  has  already  made  ar- 
rangements to  get  in  touch  with  him. 

The  thousands  who  write  feel  they  know 
Richard  very  well.  Red  has  often  opened 
his  shows  with  something  his  little  son 
is  supposed  to  have  said  or  done.  Last 
summer,  when  the  Skeltons  were  flying 
to  Hawaii  on  vacation,  and  their  plane 
lost  an  engine  and  had  to  come  back.  Red 
made  headlines  when  he  cracked: 
"Richard,,  I  told  you  to  quit  fooling  around 
those  controls!" 

It  wasn't  until  the  plane  was  back  over 
Salinas,  California,  that  the  Skeltons  had 
known  of  any  difficulty.  Then,  getting 
dressed  to  land,  Richard  had  come  up  with 
some  "material"  of  his  own,  asking  the 
stewardess  excitedly,  'Is  it  time  for  us 
to  put  on  our  life  rafts?" 

He  is  a  little  boy  without  fear.  His  one 
worry,  while  in  the  hospital,  was  whether 
he  would  miss  out  joining  the  Cub  Scouts. 
His  sister,  Valentina,  is  a  Brownie,  and 
Richard  was  supposed  to  join  the  Cub 
Scouts  in  January.  Being  in  the  hos- 
pital was  really  messing  up  his  schediile. 
"Say,  what  about  the  Scouts?"  he  kept 
worrying.  This  was  closest  to  his  little- 
boy  heart  .  .  .  and  it  was  a  proud  little 
Cub  Scout  who  later  bought  his  uniform 
and  wore  it  to  meeting,  that  first  time. 

At  the  U.C.L.A.  Medical  Center,  little 
Richard  is  being  treated  with  the  most 
effective  of  drugs  and,  as  this  is  written, 
is  responding  well.  Doctors  advise  that 
he  return  to  school  and  that  a  normal 
routine  be  observed.  A  hard  thing,  to 
have  a  normal  routine  with  an  active  little 
eight-year-old.  Hard  to  watch,  and  yet 
not  watch.  To  seem  casual,  and  yet  be 
so  concerned.  Hard  to  hide  the  anxiety, 
when  Richard  is  discovered  outside  water- 
ing the  driveway,  and  Georgia  says, 
"Richard,  put  down  that  hose." 

"Why?" 

"Because — you'll  get  your  feet  wet," 
Mother  says,  trying  to  keep  fear  out  of 
her  voice,  as  Richard  goes  about  a  little 
boy's  important  activities. 

Hard  to  watch  him  p.utting  together 
his  models  of  jet  airplanes,  and  to  remem- 
ber that  his  dream  has  always  been  to 
ride  in  one.  Hard  not  to  give  him  the 
whole  world,  and  yet  this  would  not  be 
the  normal  thing  to  do. 

At  home,  the  "show  goes  on,"  too.  A 
little  boy  wears  his  Cub  Scout  uniform, 
swings  a  green  scapular,  and  plays  with  a 
shiny  new  train. 

And,  on  a  television  stage,  Red  goes  on 
making  laughter  for  the  millions  whose 
devout  hope — like  his  own — is  that,  in 
laboratories  all  over  the  world  . . .  where- 
ever  serious-faced  men  and  women  in 
white  work  far  into  the  hours  . . .  the  an- 
swer will  be  found. 

He  goes  on  making  laughter  for  mil- 
lions who  pray  with  him:  "God's  will  be 
done." 


Corn,Callous,Bunion 
P^in  Stops! 


zNERVE-bEFti 


No  waiting  for  relief  when 
you  use  Dr.  Scholl's  Zino-pads. 
They  stop  pain  at  its  source  .  .  . 
ease  new  or  tight  shoes  .  .  .  remove 
corns,  callouses  one  of  the  quickest 
ways  known  to  medical  science. 
New  skin-matching  color;  worn 
invisibly.  Try  them!  At  Drug, 
Shoe,  Department,  5-10(i  Stores. 


DrScholls 

Zino-pads 


SONG  POEMS  WANTED 

To  be  set  to  music.   Send  your  poems  today  for  free 
examination] 

J.  CHAS.  McNeil,  (A.  B.  Master  of  Music) 

510-MG  So.  Alexandria  Los  Angeles  5,  Calif. 


money    -"^e  yours  for 
^      helping   us  take  or- 
ders for  magazine  subscriptions.  Write 
for  FREE  information.    No  obligation. 

Macfadden   Publications 
205  East  42  St..  N.  Y.  17.  N.  Y. 


\  rD££       MATERNITY 
rflCC  STYLE  CATALOG 


BIG  96-page  illnstrated  catalog.  Hun- 
dreds of  exclusive,  economy- priced 
Maternity  Fashions.  FREE  GIFT  CHECK 
with  catalog  gives  EXTRA  disconnts  on 
first  order.  World's  largest  selections  — 
Maternity  dresses,  suits,  separates,  sports- 
wear, girdles,  bras,  lingerie.  $1.00  to  $20.00. 
Write  TODAY-CRAWFORD'S 
Dept.  35,    8015  Wornall  Rd.,  Kansas  City  14,  Missouii 


500  ;:RChilds  Photo 


Yes,  up  to  $500  and  more  PAID  if  used  for 
TV,  Calendar  or  Magazine  Ads.  YOUR  CHILD 
has  same  opportunity.  Send  ONE  small  photo 
for  approval.  Print  child's  and  mother's  name 
and  address  on  back.  Returned  in  2  weeks 
with  report.  (Ages  6  mo,  to  ISyrs.) 

NO  OeLIGATION.  (Established  1946) 
HOLLYWOOD  SPOTLITE,  Dept.  AE 
8346   Beverly  Blvd.,   Hollywood,   Calif. 


ffgli/  broken, 
split  nails,.. 


Marvel  Nails 


^-a  new  liquid  preparation  that  hardens  into  long, 
glamorous  finger  nails.  Nowr  you  can  change 
broken,  split,  bitten  nails  into  strong  beautiful 
nails — stronger  than  your  own  nails.  STOPS  NAIL 
BITING. 

Will  not  break  or  crack.  Stays  on  until  your  own 
nails  grow  out.  Can  be  filed,  trimmed  and  beauti- 
fully polished.  Each  nail  is  made  in  one  minute, 
/ou  can  do  any  ifpe  work  whi/e  wearing  f/iese 
naiis.   No  preparation  like  it. 

59c   (regular),  or  $1    Deluxe   Kit 

/f  not  aiiai\ab\e  at  your  favorite  store,  send  65e 
lor  $1.10)  to:— 

iVIARVEL   NAILS,   Dept.  MW-5 

5249  W.  Harrison  St.         Chicago  44,  III. 


89 


Forever  "The  Greatest" 


(Continued    from    page    55) 
unprepared  for  this  phenomenon  will  find 
himself  completely  caught  up  in  it. 

The  big  man  with  the  cherubic  face  and 
the  much-publicized,  over-sized  waistline, 
comes  bellowing  out  upon  the  stage,  kid- 
ding the  two  Jacks  (Philbin,  executive 
producer,  and  Hurdle,  the  producer),  rib- 
bing "Bullets"  Durgom,  his  manager,  roar- 
ing ridiculous  lines,  made  up  on  the  spot,  to 
assistant  producer  Stanley  Poss  and  direc- 
tor Frank  Satenstein.  He  spies  Audrey 
Meadows  and  shouts,  "Hi,  Aud,"  tosses  off 
a  few  impromptu  bars  of  song  to  get  a 
laugh  from  Ray  Bloch  and  the  orchestra, 
rehearsing  at  one  side  of  the  theater  with 
coats  off.  Suddenly  the  whole  place  comes 
alive,  and  the  big  show  is  on.  A  show 
more  furiously  paced,  and  certainly  mad- 
der, than  any  that  finally  hits  the  screen. 

Jackie  may  be  rehearsing  with  a  script 
still  in  hand  in  mid-afternoon,  with 
broadcast  time  only  a  few  hours  away. 
When  he  fluffs  a  line  and  is  prompted, 
he'U  say,  a  trifle  apologetically,  "Just 
wanted  to  see  if  anyone  was  paying  atten- 
tion!" When  he  gets  through  a  speech 
without  missing,  he  says  triimiphantly, 
"Put  a  big  circle  around  that— it's  the  one 
I  know!"  A  few  hours  later,  he  will  be  on 
the  air,  master  of  every  line  and  every 
bit  of  business,  perhaps  inventing  as  he 
goes  along— ad-libbing  with  hilarious  re- 
sults, but  always  within  the  framework  of 
what  has  been  planned.  Jack  Lescoulie, 
the  show's  announcer,  says:  "At  broad- 
cast time,  it  could  be  opening  night  of  a 
play  after  weeks  on  the  road,  Jackie  is  so 
siu-e  of  himself.  And  with  only  a  few 
hours  of  rehearsal  time  behind  him." 

Because  this  is  the  season  when  the 
Jackie  Gleason  Show  came  back  "live" 
^er  being  Aimed,  everybody  has  had 
thoughts  on  the  subject.  Lescoulie  thinks 
that,  done  live,  it  is  "more  coordinated 
and  moves  along  as  a  unit,  which  has 
made  it  more  fim  to  do."  For  Art  Carney, 


it  has  been  "more  exciting,  more  stimu- 
lating— although  nothing  around  Jackie 
could  get  dull.  There's  that  charge  in  the 
man.  The  live  show  has  given  a  chance  to 
do  some  of  the  other  sketches  and  char- 
acters in  addition  to  The  Honeymooners — 
Reggie  Van  Gleason  III,  the  Loud  Mouth, 
the  Poor  Soul,  Joe  the  Bartender  and 
some  others." 

Joyce  Randolph,  who  recently  became 
Mrs.  Richard  Charles,  and  whose  stock- 
broker-actor husband  has  filled  in  small 
parts  a  couple  of  times,  loves  doing  the 
show  either  on  film  or  live,  "because  with 
Jackie  it's  always  hilarious."  Audrey 
Meadows,  who  recently  became  Mrs.  Ran- 
dolph Rouse  and  now  commutes  back  and 
forth  from  Virginia  to  do  the  show,  sums 
it  up  with:  "Jackie  is  fabulous  to  work 
with,  either  way.  He  wears  well  vmder 
all  the  pressures,  live  or  filmed.  Other  big 
stars  get  irritated  and  upset,  but  Jackie 
seldom  blows  up  a  storm — on  those  infre- 
quent occasions  it's  over  in  a  moment. 
When  things  get  toughest,  he  jokes.  He's 
a  great  believer  in  making  your  work  so 
much  fun  that  it  doesn't  seem  hke  work." 

The  June  Taylor  Dancers,  in  perky  pink 
and  violet  costumes,  and  the  other  glamor- 
ously  exciting  beauties  who  adorn  the 
show  are  among  Jackie's  best  audience 
during  these  rehearsals.  They  sit  out  in 
the  theater  auditorium,  waiting  their  turn 
to  go  onstage  and  rehearse,  and  they  gig- 
gle at  the  goings-on,  laughing  the  loudest 
at  the  funny  lines  and  situations,  whether 
in  the  script  or  ad-libbed  for  the  moment. 
Jackie  still  sends  each  dancer  a  thank- 
you  corsage  after  the  Saturday-night  per- 
formance. 

Rumors  began  to  float  from  the  stage 
door  of  Studio  50  early  this  year  that  this 
comedy  show,  which  has  become  a  Satur- 
day-night institution,  live  or  on  film, 
might  not  return  on  Saturdays  next  sea- 
son—and might  not  return,  intact,  at  all. 
The  Gleason  gang  points  out  that  Jackie 


is  the  only  comedy  star  of  his  caliber  still 
doing  a  weekly  television  program,  witfi- 
out  any  break,  but  they  wonder  what  he 
would  do  with  all  that  energy  if  there 
weren't  a  show  every  single  week!  They 
point  out  the  dozens  of  projects  in  which 
he  is  also  interested,  and  for  which  he 
formed  the  Jackie  Gleason  Enterprises, 
the  parent  organization  for  them  all. 

They  have  heard  him  say  he  wants  to 
make  a  big,  exciting  movie,  and  perhaps 
produce  and  direct  it.  That  he  wants  to 
play  some  more  straight  roles  in  TV 
dramas  (he  starred  in  a  couple  on  Studio 
One,  for  instance) ,  and  that  he  would  like 
to  produce  and  direct  for  television,  too. 
He  even  talks  of  a  Broadway  play,  star- 
ring Jackie  Gleason.  He  has  musical  com- 
positions singing  in  his  mind  and  not  yet 
put  down  on  paper.  He  has  about  a  dozen 
albums  of  recordings  that  are  highly  suc- 
cessful, and  plans  for  many  more. 

It  is  a  lot  of  territory  for  one  man  to 
cover,  but  no  one  doubts  that  he  can,  if  he 
wants  to.  They  point  to  his  quick,  keen 
mind,  which  executes  ideas  while  others 
are  still  discussing  them.  They  point  to 
the  enormous  drive  in  the  man,  and  the 
terrific  sense  of  humor  that  keeps  him 
keyed  up  while  others  begin  to  wilt  from 
fatigue.  They  point  to  his  sensitivity  to 
people's  moods,  and  to  the  things  people 
will  like.  They  wonder  if  he  wouldn't 
miss  the  frantic  Saturday  rehearsals  .  .  . 
the  riotous  hour  on  the  air  when,  under 
the  layer  of  comedy,  he  becomes  a  seri- 
ous-minded performer  .  .  .  the  post- 
mortems after  the  show — short  and  soon 
forgotten,  because  there's  always  another 
one  that  will  be  even  better,  and  in  which 
no  small  thing  will  go  wrong,  or  so  they 
always  tell  themselves  .  .  .  the  parties 
afterwards,  the  fun,  the  music. 

Be  that  as  it  may,  it  takes  only  a  visit 
to  a  Gleason  rehearsal  these  days  to  con- 
vince anyone  that  The  Jackie  Gleason 
Show  is  very  much  "live." 


,  (Continued  from  page  65) 

thought  of  bloodshed.  He's  underpaid, 
never  liked  the  job,  but  knows  it  has  to  be 
done.  At  times  he's  wanted  to  quit— has 
quit.  But  like  most  people  who  know  the 
difference  between  right  and  wrong— and 
recognizing  that  justice  could  be  done  by 
him,  probably  better  than  by  anyone  else 
available — he  has  always  come  back  to  his 
responsibility.  Matt  Dillon  isn't  perfect, 
but  he's  willing  to  try." 

The  title,  "Gunsmoke,"  was  originally 
CTeated  six  years  ago  in  the  fertile  brain  of 
Harry  Ackerman,  CBS  vice-president. 
Radio  was  in  its  heyday,  and  producer- 
director  Norman  Macdonnell  and  writer 
John  Meston  were  busy  doing  Romance, 
Escape  and  Suspense  when  CBS  execu- 
tives asked  them  to  produce  a  new  show 
to  fill  a  network  vacancy— and  to  go  with 
the  new  title,   "Gunsmoke." 

At   that   time,    Meston    and    Macdonnell 
were  toying  with  a  new  dramatic  concept 
?L     .^    °^'^-    '^^    bright    young    pair 
(Macdonnell  had  worked  his  way  up  from 
*e  CBS  page  staff)  had  tried  a  new  show, 
Jeff   Spam,   on   several    of   the    anthology 
series  Macdonnell  was  producing,  but  the 
powers-that-be    now    insisted    on    Spain 
iDemg  bypassed   and   Gunsmoke  produced 
V    V^  *^^  "^'^  t™«  spot.    After  putting  their 
^    heads    together,    Meston    and    Macdonnell 
accepted    the   network   dictates,    but   pri- 
vately agreed  to  do  Jeff  Spain— and  call  it 
Gunsmoke!" 
90 


Wild  Old  West 

The  big  gamble  was  on.  "We  knew  it 
might  pay  off,"  says  Macdonnell,  "and  it 
might  not."  Casting  around  for  talent  he 
knew  to  be  experienced  and  could  carry 
the  script,  Macdonnell  selected  a  small 
group  of  versatile  performers  in  the  persons 
of  Parley  Baer,  who  plays  Chester  Proud- 
foot,  Georgia  EUis,  cast  as  Kitty,  and 
Howard  McNear  as  crusty  old  Doc  Adams. 
Now  celebrating  their  fifth  anniversary, 
the  team  has  become  one  of  radio's  oldest 
stock  companies.  After  the  first  few  weeks, 
Macdonnell  and  Meston  and  their  new 
star.  Bill  Conrad,  had  nothing  to  fear. 
Gunsmoke  exploded  into  national  promi- 
nence like  a  .44  Colt.  CBS  Radio  was  im- 
mediately flooded  with  fan  letters,  the 
largest  proportion  coming,  literally,  from 
doctors,  lawyers  and  Indian  chiefs— the 
latter,  because  they  liked  the  honest  West- 
em  flavor  inherent  in  the  show.  Today, 
five  years  later,  thousands  of  letters  from 
professional  men  have  attested  to  the  in- 
teUigent  esteem  in  which  Gunsmoke  is 
held. 

By  now.  Bill  Conrad  has  become  so 
identified  with  Matt  Dillon  that  it's  difficult 
to  tell  where  the  stubborn,  justice -seeking 
marshal  ends  off  and  the  versatile  actor 
begins.  Conrad— born  in  Louisville,  Ken- 
tucky, in  1920,  but  raised  in  FuUerton, 
California — is  as  much  a  hard-working 
product  of  the  West  as  Dillon  himself.  Bill 
made  his  first  radio  annoimcement  at  Sta- 
tion KFOX  in  Long  Beach,  at  fifteen,  and. 


like  a  burro  climbing  a  bluff,  has  doggedly 
worked  his  way  up. 

"The  two  men.  Matt  Dillon  and  BiU 
Conrad,"  says  Macdonnell,  "are  both 
studies  in  contrast.  Bill  is  one  of  the 
warmest  people  I've  ever  known,  but  he 
covers  it  up  with  a  good  deal  of  gruffness 
and,  sometimes,  bravado.  He  would  rather 
die  than  let  you  know  he's  a  sentimentalist. 
Matt's  this  way,  too — he  never  shows 
sentimentaUty,  except  by  indirection. 

"When  you  first  look  at  Bill,  wearing  his 
garden  blue-jeans  and  sporting  a  three- 
day  growth  of  beard,  he  looks  rugged,  and 
not  exactly  the  picture  of  the  Shake- 
spearean student  he  really  is.  Bill's  in- 
terests are  as  varied  as  a  desert  sunset. 
Intellectually,  Bill  enjoys  discussing  Mo- 
zart's music,  on  the  one  hand,  but  isn't 
above  playing  the  latest  Billy  May  record 
and  saying,  'Isn't  that  an  interesting  ar- 
rangement?' " 

"On  the  other  hand,"  Macdonnell  points 
out,  "Bill  skis  as  swiftly  as  a  bullet,  hxmts 
and  fishes  as  a  hobby.  Given  a  few  free 
minutes  in  the  script,  we'll  have  Matt  ride 
down  to  the  Arkansas  River  to  snare  him- 
self a  mess  of  catfish — Matt  loves  catfish 
stew.  But,  while  it's  true  that  Bill  loves 
the  simple  pleasures,  too,  he  himself  is 
quite  a  gourmet.  His  wife,  Junie,  is  the 
greatest  cook  in  the  world.  BiU  says  she's 
not  a  cook,  she's  a  chef.  There's  no  end  to 
the  number  of  delicious  Swedish  dishes 
Junie  dreams  up.    I'm  afraid  Matt  Dillon 


never  had  it  so  good!"  From  his  grin,  Nor- 
man Macdonnell  is  a  gourmet,  too. 

Bill  himself  says,  ail-inclusively,  "Hob- 
bies are  my  hobby."  He  gets  wrapped  up 
in  some  subject,  reading  through  a  library 
bookshelf  like  a  hungry  ranch  hand  going 
through  his  chow.  And  chances  are  almost 
certain  that  every  one  of  his  easygoing 
sports-jacket  pockets  will  have  a  well- 
thumbed  magazine  on  boating,  yachting, 
electronics  or  hi-fi.  He's  a  bug  on  the  new 
idea  of  binaural  sounds,  and  has  built  his 
own  hi-fi  equipment  into  his  house.  "I 
have  Fibber  McGee's  original  closet  full  of 
equipment,"  Bill  grins.  "The  house  looks 
like  a  combination  sporting-goods  store 
and  jtink  shop!" 

According  to  Macdonnell,  Marshal  Dil- 
lon has  no  hobbies,  back  in  Dodge  City. 
Matt's  diversions  are  limited  to  an  after- 
noon fishing  in  the  Arkansas  River  or  an 
evening  in  the  Longbranch  Saloon.  He's 
a  simple,  honest  person  grubbing  out  an 


existence  amongst  a  prairie  people  and  on 
a  rugged  land  which  unwillingly  gives  up 
enough  sustenance  for  man  to  keep  body 
and  soul  together.  Matt's  just  an  ordinary 
guy  with  normal  faults  and  feelings.  There 
are  times  when  he's  outwardly  self-confi- 
dent, but  within  himself  he's  never  really 
sure.  And,  the  one  time  he  really  became 
over-confident,  he  made  the  biggest  mis- 
take of  his  life — shooting  and  killing  the 
wrong  man. 

An  honest  human  being  who  sometimes 
makes  mistakes.  Basically,  this  is  the 
character  Macdormell,  Meston  and  Conrad 
have  created  for  the  radio  public.  Gun- 
smoke  has  taken  its  place  in  broadcasting 
history  as  one  of  the  most  successful  of 
dramatic  shows,  primarily  because  this 
trio  of  master  craftsmen  realized  that  the 
Old  West  may  have  been  wild  and  violent, 
but  it  was  conquered — and  settled — by  real 
people  with  real  problems  which  everyone 
can  recognize  today. 


Circle  Without  End 


(Continued  from  page  17) 
a  new  life  in  wide-open  spaces  and  were 
assisted  to  homestead  in  Alaska,  where 
they  built  their  own  log  cabin  home  and 
are  now  helping  to  build  the  first  com- 
munity place  of  worship. 

The  case  of  "Commando"  Charles  E. 
Kelly  was  a  high  point  of  this  season's 
programs.  Kelly,  a  Congressional  Medal 
of  Honor  winner  in  World  War  II,  got 
bogged  down  by  continuous  family  ill- 
nesses. The  money  he  won  on  Strike  It 
Rich,  to  tide  him  over  a  rough  time,  was 
augmented  by  many  offers  from  business- 
men to  help  Kelly  help  himself.  Presi- 
dent Eisenhower,  learning  of  his  good 
fortune,   wrote   him   a   cheering  telegram. 

Warren  says  of  Kelly:  "Here  was  this 
solid  citizen — a  man  who  has  done  much 
for  his  country  and  is  deserving  of  every- 
thing good — who,  through  a  series  of  un- 
fortunate  circumstances,  needed  only  tem- 
porary help  and  encouragement.  He  didn't 
ask  for  sympathy,  or  want  it,  but  there 
was  something  so  winning  and  so  sincere 
about  the  man  that  literally  hundreds  of 
letters  came  to  us,  praising  him." 

In  addition  to  the  many,  many  individ- 
uals who  have  been  assisted  in  one  way  or 
another,  Warren  is  greatly  moved  by  those 
who  take  the  time  and  trouble  to  come 
on  the  show  to  help  groups  of  people. 
There  was  the  blind  newspaper  columnist 
for  the  Buffalo  Courier-Express,  H.  Kath- 
erine  Smith,  who  started  a  movement 
called  "TV's  for  the  Blind,"  collecting  old 
sets  with  faulty  pictiire  tubes — or  with- 
out any — ready  to  be  discarded  for  that 
reason,  but  with  unimpaired  audio  re- 
ception. On  Strike  It  Rich,  she  won  funds 
sufficient  to  recondition  many  such  sets, 
and  the  idea  is  spreading  throughout  the 
country. 

There  was  Mrs.  Ethel  Sloop,  founder 
and  president  of  the  "Over  40  Club"  of 
Charlotte,  North  Carolina,  which  started 
at  a  time  when,  because  she  was  over 
forty,  she  could  not  get  a  job.  She  won 
enough  on  the  program  for  office  equip- 
ment and  supplies  and  thfe  rental  of  a 
larger  meeting  room  to  handle  the  fast- 
growing  membership  of  job-seekers  and 
those  who  wanted  to  help  them.  Warren, 
entirely  in  sympathy  with  the  idea,  com- 
mented to  his  audience,  "You  might  be 
doing  something  like  this  in  your  city  or 
town,  because  there  is  great  need  for  such 
a  movement  everywhere." 

Later,  Mrs.  Sloop  told  Warren  that  let- 
ters had  come  from  twenty-two  states, 
and  from  as  far  away  as  Honolulu,  asking 
for    information     about     starting    similar 


clubs.  "You  never  can  tell  how  far  the 
ripples  will  go  when  you  toss  a  stone  in 
the  ocean,"  she  wrote.  Warren  agrees. 
"This,  to  me,  is  one  of  the  really  great 
privileges,"  he  has  said.  "The  chance  to 
help  bring  about  such  far-reaching  re- 
sults, favorably  affecting  the  lives  of  so 
many  different  people." 

In  Warren's  personal  life,  the  happiest 
events  of  this  past  season  were  the  arrival 
of  two  grandchildren:  Patricia  Susan,, 
who  was  born  to  the  second  of  his  three 
sons.  Navy  man  George — and  John  War- 
ren III,  who  is  the  son  of  his  oldest  boy, 
John,  now  out  of  the  Navy  and  working 
in  a  New  York  advertising  agency.  "Real 
bundles  of  joy,  these  two,"  their  doting 
grandfather  says.  (Paul,  Warren's  third 
son,  is  24.  Sue  Hull — whom  Warren  mar- 
ried in  1951 — has  three  children  too: 
Susan,  Jr.,  21,  Bud,  19,  and  Sally,  14.) 

Warren's  interest  in  kids  and  his  love 
for  them,  extends  far  beyond  his  own 
doorstep.  On  a  Minnesota  trip  to  do  a 
special  broadcast,  when  the  temperature 
was  well  below  zero  and  the  snow  was 
deep — and  everyone  on  his  staff  had 
worked  so  hard,  including  Warren  him- 
self, that  they  were  completely  tired  out — 
he  went  quietly  off  to  a  hospital  for  crip- 
pled children  before  his  plane  left.  He 
talked  to  each  of  the  196  children  per- 
sonally, laughing  with  them  and  drawing 
out  even  the  most  shy  and  the  most  iU. 
No  word  of  publicity  about  his  visit  was 
allowed  to  get  out  and  it  has  never  been 
told  until  now.  It  was  his  own  personal 
idea  and  his  own  personal  joy  and  satis- 
faction. 

He  likes  personal  contact  with  people 
and,  this  year,  he  has  gone  down  into  the 
studio  audience  and  talked  directly  to 
those  who  come.  The  breadth  and  scope  of 
the  program  are  always  exciting  to  him. 
"We  help  people  who  then  go  out — some 
of  them  to  distant  places  all  over  the 
world — and,  in  turn,  help  others,"  he  says. 
"Some  are  students  who  could  not  com- 
plete their  studies  without  assistance.  They 
graduate  and  go  out  to  teach  young  people, 
to  do  medical  missionary  work,  to  be 
nurses  and  social  workers.  Or  they  stay 
in  their  home  communities  and  do  useful 
and  fine  things.  Children  who  have  been 
given  a  better  chance  in  life  pass  along 
their  good  fortune  to  other  children,  as 
they  go  along.     It's  an  endless  circle. 

"We  feel  we  have  a  great  opportunity 
on  Strike  It  Rich  to  demonstrate  the 
brotherhood  of  man,  not  only  to  talk 
about  it,"  says  Warren  Hull.  "We  hope 
we  have  succeeded,  if  just  a  little." 


ENJOY  A  PERMANENT, 
kBfG  PAY  CAREER  as  a 

^\  PRACTICAL 
NURSE 


EARN  AT  HOME  WHILE  LEARNING 

FREE  SAMPLE  LESSON  shows  how  easily  you  can 
become  a  professionally  trained  practical  nurse 
by  home  study  in  a  short  time.  NO  HIGH 
SCHOOL   NEEDED.    No  age  limit. 

FOR  FREE  LESSON  and 
FULL  INFORMATION 


Post  Graduate  Hospital 
School  of  Nursing 
9D57  Auditorium  BIdg. 
Chicago  5,   Illinois 

Name 

Address 

City State. 


BUNIONS 


DOCTOR'S  FAST  RELIEF! 

To  instantly  lift  painful  shoe 

friction  and  hide  the  unsightly 

bulge,  wear  Dr.  SchoU's  BUNION  REDUCER— a 
cushioning  shield  of  soft  rubber.  Worn  invisibly 
under  stocking.  Helps  preserve  shape  of  shoe.  Only 
75^  each.  At  Drug,  Shoe,  Dept.  Stores  everywhere. 


SPARKLING 

8x10 

ENLARGEMENT 

only  49c 


FREE! 

On  orders  of  2 
or  more  we  will 
send  you  ' 
sparkling  wallet 
size  print  FREE. 


Mail  us  any  photo,  snapshot  or  negative  and  receive,  post- 
paid, your  enlargement  on  double-weight  paper.  Original 
returned  unharmed.  Nothing  else  to  pay.  If  beautiful  hand- 
coloring  is  desired  add  50c  for  each  print.  C.O.D.'s  ac- 
cepted on  orders  of  2  or  more,  plus  C.O.D.  charges.  Satis- 
faction Guaranteed.  QUALITY  VALUES.  STUDIO  33-B. 
5    BEEKMAN    STREET,    NEW    YORK    38,    N.    Y. 


TROUBLED 
WITH 

UNWANTED 
HAIR? 


^noviDENcns.R.r. 


You  needn't  be!  Now  you  can 
remove    unwanted    hair   forever 

—  in   the  privacy  of  your  home 

—  with  the  famous  Mahler  Hair 
Removal  Epilator!  Acclaimed 
by  thousands  of  women  who 
have    discovered    how    Mahler 

I  destroys   the   hair    root   perma- 

ntly!  By  following  our  instruc- 

I  tions  you.  too,  can  learn  to  use 

^^the   Mahler  safely  and  effl- 

^ciently!  Positive  money-back 

guarantee!  Act  todayl 


I  5^  for  illustrated  16-page    % 

booklet  "New  Radiant  Beauty"J,_  V 


LOOSE   FALSE  TEETH 

RELINED  AND  TIGHTENED  AT  HOME  $1.00 

NEWLY  IMPROVED  DENDEX  RELINGR,  a 

plastic,  builds  up  (refits)  loose  upper  and 

lower  dentures.  Really  makes  them  fit  as 

'they  should  without  using  powder.  Easily 

•  applied.  No  heating  required.  Brush  it  on 

and  wear  your  plates  while  it  sets.  It  ad» 

I  heres    to    the    plates    only    and    makes    a 

f  comfortable,   smooth  and  durable  surface 

that   can   be  washed  and   scrubbed.    Eacti 

application  lasts  for  months.  Not  a  powder 

_  or  wax.  Contains  no  rubber  or  gum.  Neu* 

tral   Dink    color.    Snld  on   MONEY-BACK    GUARANTEE.    Not 

sold   in    stores.    Proved    by     15    years    of    Consumer    Use. 

lend    St     P>i^    10c    handling    charge    (stamps    or    coin>. 

Dendex  Company,  Dept.  77-G 

2024  West  6th  St.,  los  Angeles  5,  Calif. 


BeYourOwn  MUSICTeocher 

LEARH  AT  HOME  THIS  MONEY  SAVING  WAY 

Simple  as  A-B-C.  Your  lessons  consist  of  real  selections 
instead  of  tiresome  exercises.  You  read  real  notes — no 
•'numbers*'  or  trick  music.  900,000  students,  including 
Lawrence  Welk.  Everything  is  in  print  and  pictures. 
First  you  are  told  what  to  do.  Then  a  picture  shows  you 
how.     Soon  you  are  playing  the  music  yotl      ■    '    ■" 


like.      Write    for    big 


•-page 


Port   Washington,    N.   Y. 


illustrated 
instru- 
Studio 


FREE 
BOOKLET 


91 


Fifty  Million  People  Can't  Be  Wrong 


(Continued  from  page  33) 
of  the  room's  L.  There  is  his  desk  with  the 
gold  typewriter — a  tribute  from  the 
Springfield,  Massachusetts  post  of'  Jewish 
War  Veterans — that  he  uses  to  write  his 
column.  Alongside  the  desk  are  two  deep 
leather  chairs.  Between  the  chairs  stands 
a  floor  lamp,  and  the  shade  is  made  of 
color  photographs  of  his  wife,  daughter, 
son-in-law  and  grandchildren.  When  Ed 
talks  to  interviewers,  he  drops  into  one  of 
the  chairs  and  props  his  feet  up  on  the 
ottoman.  He  speaks  softly  but  intently. 

"I've  made  a  list  of  the  high  points  of 
the  past  year,"  he  says.  "I  wouldn't  exactly 
say  it  was  a  quiet  year."  On  a  memo- 
randum-sized piece  of  paper  he  has  listed: 
Japan,  Venezuela,  Honolulu,  Paris — Anas- 
tasia,  Auto  Crash — August,  Presley,  Cros- 
by 'live,'  Phil  Silvers  Show. 

"Japan,  Honolulu,  Venezuela,  they  were 
all  new  stops  for  me,"  he  says.  "You  know, 
I've  been  traveling  constantly  ever  since 
I  got  in  vaudeville,  and  it's  no  novelty. 
Sometimes  I  get  pretty  tired  of  it,  but  the 
trips  to  Japan  and  Honolulu  and  Vene- 
zuela were  different.  I  was  in  Venezuela, 
on  my  way  to  Tobago,  to  do  interviews 
with  Bob  Mitchum  and  Rita  Hayworth. 
That  was  my  first  time  down  there  and  I 
found  it  exciting.  Getting  over  to  Japan 
was,  I  guess,  the  big  trip  of  the  year.  We 
went  over  to  do  a  story  on  Marlon 
Brando  and  the  'Teahouse  of  the  August 
Moon'  company." 

On  the  basis  of  the  foreign  relations  job 
Ed  did  in  Japan,  he  should  be  appointed 
good -will  ambassador  by  the  State  De- 
partment. Ed  appeared  on  two  Japanese 
TV  shows,  studied  their  theaters  and  in- 
stitutions, played  on  their  golf  courses  and, 
along  with  Mrs.  Sullivan,  so  ingratiated 
himself  that  he  was  front-page  news.  When 
he  got  back  to  the  States  and  commented 
on  the  beauty  and  progress  of  the  Japa- 
nese theater,  the  Tokyo  papers  front- 
paged him  again. 

"Their  television  was  very  interesting," 
he  adds.  "Outside  the  station  itself  they 
had  five  monitors  on  the  street,  and  there 
were  always  crowds  around  them.  Base- 
ball on  TV  is  very  popular  there.  And  we 
had  a  wonderful  time.  And  that  goes  for 
our  stopover  in  Honolulu,  too."  Ed  pauses, 
studies  the  paper  and  purses  his  lips  in  a 
noiseless  whistle.  Then  he  says,  "I  sup- 
pose the  real  high  points  last  year  were 
the  dramatic  ones,  the  ones  that  made  the 
headlines — Bergman  and  the  auto  crash 
and  Presley.  Let's  take  them  in  order." 

Ed's  genius  for  engaging  the  right  artist 
at  the  right  time  is  one  of  the  reasons  for 
his  mighty  success.  When  he  heard  that 
Ingrid  Bergman  would  be  making  her  first 
American  film  in  eight  years  and  that  the 
film  would  be  "Anastasia,"  which  he  had 
seen  as  a  Broadway  play,  he  knew  some- 
thing great  would  come  out  of  it.  He 
thought  of  bringing  Bergman  to  the  show 
but  he  thought,  too,  of  public  opinion.  He 
knew  that,  at  one  time,  the  public  had 
turned  against  her.  Ed  discussed  this  aspect 
with  20th  Century-Fox. 

"The    film    company    told    me    that,    if 
there  were  any  controversy,  the  Church  in 
Rome   would   make   a   statement   exoner- 
ating Ingrid  from  blame.  But,  in  the  first 
place,  the   Church  had  no  official  feeling 
against   her   since   she   isn't   Catholic,   al- 
though Rossellini  is.  However,  she  is  bring- 
ing  up    their   children    as    Catholics,    and 
J    the  marriage  has  lasted  seven  years." 
V        Ed  flew  to  Paris,  where  "Anastasia"  was 
U    being  filmed.  He  interviewed  the  cast,  in- 
cluding Helen  Hayes  and  Yxil  Brynner,  as 
well  as  Bergman.     When  Ed  got  back,  he 
found  himself  in  the  frying  pan. 


"Let  me  tell  you  what  really  happened," 
he  says.  "One  of  the  New  York  papers 
filed  a  story  from  Washington.  It  was  one 
of  those  'it  is  reported'  stories.  According 
to  the  paper,  high  authorities  in  the  State 
Department  would  not  allow  Ingrid  Berg- 
man into  the  country  because  of  moral 
turpitude  laws.  That  story  was  front- 
paged and  sent  out  over  the  wires  to  every 
newspaper  in  the  country.  Just  about 
everyone  saw  or  heard  of  it.  The  following 
day,  an  official  story  came  from  Wash- 
ington saying  there  was  no  truth  to  the 
rumor.  There  had  never  been  any  discus- 
sion or  thought  of  keeping  Bergman  out 
of  the  country.  Of  course,  as  always  hap- 
pens, the  first  story  got  all  the  attention." 

while  Ed  was  in  London,  mail  came  in 
by  the  bushel  to  his  office.  In  all,  there 
were  some  nine  thousand  letters  and  he 
was  startled.  The  mail  was  approximately 
8700  to  300  against  Bergman's  appearance. 

"It  didn't  make  sense  to  me,"  says  Ed. 
"I  figured  the  only  way  to  get  a  representa- 
tive opinion  was  to  throw  it  open  to  the 
country.  On  the  Sunday  evening  show,  I 
asked  people  to  write  in  and  let  me  know 
what  they  thought.  I  sent  a  telegram  to 
Bergman  at  the  Savoy  in  London  and  told 
her  that  I  was  throwing  the  question  open 
to  the  country  because  I  believed  Ameri- 
cans would  support  her.  Well,  even  with 
the  late  start,  opinion  shifted  tremendous- 
ly. Another  40,000  letters  came  in,  at  last 
count  it  was  only  nine-to-seven  against 
her.  Of  course,  you  always  expect  more 
dissenting  opinions,  anyway.  I  had  no 
intention  of  backing  out.  Then  the  order 
came  down  from  the  brass,  'Miss  Berg- 
man is  not  to  appear  under  any  con- 
dition.' " 

Ed  smiles,  but  not  happily,  and  says,  "I 
was  right,  you  know.  Bergman  as  'Anas- 
tasia' has  won  the  Film  Critics'  Awards 
this  year.  And  what  about  the  people  of 
this  country  and  her  reception?  Let  me 
quote  from  a  newspaper,  'Not  even  at  the 
height  of  her  career  here — before  tihe  Ros- 
sellini furor — was  she  ever  greeted  more 
cordially  or  with  such  genuine  affection.' 
You  see,  I  was  right  about  the  American 
people,  about  their  being  forgiving.  But  I 
think  that,  next  to  my  accident,  the 
Bergman  incident  disturbed  me  more  than 
anything  that  happened  last  year."  Ed 
pauses  and  asks,  "You  want  me  to  talk 
about  the  accident?" 

On  the  morning  of  August  6,  the  country 
was  shocked  to  hear  that,  just  a  few  hours 
earlier,  Ed's  car  had  crashed  head  on  into 
another  at  one-thirty  in  the  morning.  He 
had  been  driving  from  the  Bridgeport  Air- 
port to  his  farm.  With  him  were  his  son- 
in-law,  Bob  Precht,  and  his  caretaker, 
Ralph  Cacace.  Ed  was  at  the  wheel  and, 
when  he  saw  the  car  coming  at  him  in 
the  wrong  lane,  there  was  nowhere  to  go. 
He  couldn't  drive  off  the  road  without 
going  into  the  river.  He  drove  until  the 
moment  of  impact.  Tire  marks  and  official 
Connecticut  police  photographs  were  proof 
that,  as  Ed  reported,  the  car  coming  to- 
ward him  had  swung  into  the  wrong  lane. 
Newspapers  reported  the  twenty-two- 
year-old  boy  driving  the  other  car  had 
fallen  asleep  at  the  wheel.  All  this  was  of 
little  comfort. 

To  itemize  the  fractures,  concussions, 
cuts  and  bruises  would  sound  like  a  casu- 
alty list  of  a  small  war.  Ed,  himself,  frac- 
tured seven  ribs,  his  chest  bone  and  stern- 
um, seriously,  plus  sustaining  a  bodyful 
of  cuts  and  bruises.  And  Mrs.  Sullivan  had 
her  hands  full  with  his  brooding:  "He 
would  see  the  others  with  their  bandages 
and  stitches,  and  he  would  say,  'Now,  if 
only   I  hadn't  made  that   phone   call,   we 


would  have  been  well  home  by  one- 
thirty.'  Or,  'If  only  Bob  had  been  sitting 
a  little  farther  over,  he  wouldn't  have 
slashed  his  face  against  the  mirror.' "  And 
Ed  unrealistically  thought  he  had  got  off 
lightly.  He  announced  to  the  newspapers 
that  he  wouldn't  miss  a  Sunday  show.  But 
it  was  six  weeks  before  he  got  back  to 
work. 

"I  had  a  letter  recently  from  the  boy 
who  was  driving  the  other  car,"  Ed  says. 
"His  name  is  Joseph  Pahnucci.  He  told  me 
that  he  was  out  of  the  hospital  and  well 
and  able  to  work  again.  He  thanked  all  of 
us  for  our  kindness  and  understanding 
through  it  all.  He  said  he  appreciated  that 
there  had  been  neither  bitterness  nor  re- 
crimination after  the  accident."  Ed  frowns 
and  says,  "You  saw  the  pictures  of  the 
crash,  didn't  you?  Terrible.  We  were  lucky 
to  get  out  of  it  alive.  I've  been  so  thank- 
ful that  none  of  us  lost  a  limb  or  his  eye- 
sight or  suffered  any  other  permanently 
disabling  injury."  Ed  sighs  and  adds,  "You 
know  the  accident  happened  just  before 
Presley's  first  appearance  on  the  show. 
Well,  I  was  flooded  with  letters  and  tele- 
grams and  cards  after  the  accident.  After 
Presley's  appearance,  a  number  of  people 
wrote  in  angrily  about  Elvis.  I  hoped  then, 
as  I  hope  now,  that  I  didn't  hurt  the  same 
people  who  had  just  a  few  days  earlier 
been  so  solicitous  about  me.  That  would 
make  me  feel  very  bad." 

1  he  coup  of  the  year  in  the  entertain- 
ment biisiness  came  about  on  the  summer 
day  in  a  locker  room,  when  Ed  Sullivan 
put  aside  his  golf  clubs  to  sign  a  contract 
for  Presley's  three  appearances.  Elvis  was 
guaranteed  $50,000,  the  highest  price  Ed 
has  ever  offered  a  performer.  And  Ed  was 
so  confident  of  his  decision  that  he  stated 
he  would  schedule  Elvis'  appearances  at 
approximately    eight-week    intervals. 

"Lot  of  people  in  the  trade  thought  I 
was  foolish,"  he  says.  "They  thought  that, 
in  a  couple  of  months,  Elvis  might  be  dead 
as  a  performer.  The  thinking  was  that  I 
should  run  his  three  appearances  close  to- 
gether to  get  my  full  value.  And  there 
were  a  lot  of  erroneous  reports  about  the 
negotiations,  as  well  as  about  Elvis  him- 
self. Of  the  many  stars  I've  known,  I  don't 
think  I've  met  anyone  who  was  or  is  more 
modest  and  likable  than  Elvis." 

Ed  was  still  convalescing  from  the  ac- 
cident when  Elvis  made  his  first  appear- 
ance on  the  Sullivan  show.  But,  the  second 
time  around,  they  met  before  the  per- 
formance in  Ed's  office  and  talked. 

"I'll  tell  you  what  I  found  out  about  the 
boy,"  Ed  says.  "While  we  were  sitting  here 
talking,  I  was  struck  by  his  sincerity  and 
his  deep  religious  convictions.  The  kid  won 
me  over  immediately.  And,  when  we  were 
told  newspapermen  were  waiting  down  in 
the  lobby,  I  thought  I'd  better  go  down 
with  him.  After  all,  he's  only  twenty-one, 
and  I  thought  the  reporters  would  chew 
him  up.  Well,  I  was  moderator  for  two 
questions,  and  then  he  gave  me  the  nod 
and  he  took  over  and  I  learned  that  he 
can  take  care  of  himself. 

"First  they  hit  him  with,  'What  do  you 
have  to  say  for  yourself?  They  say  you 
contribute  to  juvenile  delinquency.'  Elvis 
answered  without  hesitation.  He  said,  'If 
I  thought  that  was  so,  I'd  go  back  to  driv- 
ing a  truck.  The  Bible  says,  "As  ye  sow, 
so  shall  ye  reap."  Well,  I  don't  think  that 
means  if  you're  bad  one  day  God  is  going 
to  slap  your  hands  and  give  back  a  day 
of  bad  hurt.  It  means  to  me  that  you're 
going  to  suffer  for  the  rest  of  your  life, 
and  I  wouldn't  wsmt  that.' " 

Ed  goes  on,  "Then  there  was  a  woman 
reporter  who  threw  a  loaded  question  at 


him.  I  remember  she  started  off  by  saying, 
'It  must  be  terrible  for  you  with  all  these 
kids  on  your  neck.  I  feel  sorry  for  what 
you  must  go  through.  Doesn't  it  make  you 
angry  when  you  find  them  writing  on  your 
cars  with  lipstick  or  tearing  off  a  fender?' 
Elvis  answered  her  nicely  and  sweetly, 
'After    all,    they    bought    them    for    me.'" 

Ed's  decision  to  present  Presley  wasn't 
without  its  aftermath  of  rough  moments. 
He  had  letters  and  wires  of  protest  from 
the  clergy.  Some  newspaper  critics  were 
against  him.  But  Ed  says,  "This  is  a  good- 
mannered  boy  with  a  winning  personality. 
He  reminds  me  a  little  of  Sergeant  York. 
He's  generous  and  big-hearted.  I  saw  him 
stand  and  give  autographs  by  the  hun- 
dreds, and  cheerfully.  The  day  of  the  show, 
there  were  kids  at  the  studio  entrance 
from  ten  in  the  morning  until  nine  that 
night.  All  day  long,  he'd  make  trips  to  the 
window  for  a  few  minutes  at  a  time  and 
throw  out  handkerchiefs  and  pencils.  He 
was  at  that  window  fifty  times,  if  he  was 
there  once. 

"Remember,  I'm  not  saying  what  I've 
heard  about  him.  I'm  speaking  of  what  I 
personally  know  of  him." 

Ed  was  right  about  Elvis  and  his  popu- 
larity. It  is  now  generally  accepted  that 
Elvis  Presley  is  here  to  stay  and  has  a 
permanent  place  in  the  American  scene 
as  a  singer  and  entertainer. 

Ed  snaps  the  paper  in  his  hand  and  goes 
on,  "There  were  two  other  high  spots  in 
the  year.  We  all  got  a  big  kick  out  of  do- 
ing the  Phil  Silvers  show.  You  know, 
Mario  Lewis  and  Johnny  Wray  and  Ray 
Bloch  and  myself  went  to  rehearsals  with 
the  rest  of  the  cast  and  put  in  a  full  week 
learning  our  parts.  I  was  very  impressed 
by  Phil's  writer  and  producer,  Nat  Hiken. 
Hiken's  a  genius  with  comedy.  It  was  a 
great  experience  to  work  with  him.  But, 
of  course,  it  was  the  first  time  I  ever 
worked  as  an  actor  and  so  I  found  it  stim- 
ulating. 

"And  then,"  he  adds,  "another  high 
moment  in  the  season  was  having  Bing 
Crosby  on  the  show  in  person."  This  was 


another  "first"  for  Ed.  Bing  has  refused 
many  times  to  sing  "live"  on  TV.  And 
Bing  works  high,  too.  When  he  was  on 
the  Ford  Fiftieth-Anniversary-Show,  he 
was  paid  $50,000  for  singing  a  couple  of 
ballads  on  film — and  he  was  in  Paris  at  the 
time  and  they  had  to  go  over  to  make  the 
film.  When  Bing  came  on  Ed's  show,  it  was 
to  talk  about  his  film  with  Grace  Kelly, 
"High  Society."  Bing  was  to  come  on  stage 
for  the  interview  and  then  a  film  clip  from 
the  picture  was  to  be  used,  with  Bing 
singing. 

"Bing  and  I  are  golf  pals  so  that  I  can 
tell  him  just  what's  on  my  mind,"  says  Ed. 
"I  went  over  to  his  hotel  to  discuss  what 
we'd  be  doing  on  camera  and  I  said  to 
him,  'It's  going  to  look  siUy.  We'll  be  talk- 
ing about  the  songs  live  on  camera  and 
then  we  switch  to  film  while  you  sing  the 
song.  It  doesn't  make  sense.'  Bing  said, 
'You're  right.  It  doesn't  make  sense.  I'll 
sing  the  song  myself.' " 

In  a  few  words,  Ed  accomplished  wh; 
agents  and  network  execs,  producers  an< 
dozens  of  others  had  been  trying  to  g< 
Bing  to  do  for  ten  years. 

Ed  recalls,  "We  had  his  rehearsal  all  set 
up  so  he  could  come  right  in,  get  it  over 
with  and  go  out.  We  didn't  want  to  detain 
him  a  minute.  Instead,  he  came  in  and 
rehearsed  and  then  hung  around  all  day 
kidding  and  talking.  It  was  wonderful. 
After  all,  Bing  is  one  of  the  greats  in  show 
business  and  it  was  a  wonderful  experience 
for  Mario  and  Johnny  Wray  and  the  others 
to  get  to  talk  to  him." 

Ed  sits  back  and  says,  "WeU,  that's  it. 
That's  the  year  briefly,  "there  were  parts 
of  it  I  wouldn't  want  to  live  over  again. 
You  know,  that  accident  was  the  first  time 
I've  been  really  hurt  in  my  life.  Matter 
of  fact,  I  didn't  think  something  like  that 
could  happen  to  me.  I  guess  it  was  a 
miracle  that  we  got  out  of  it  as  we  did. 
And  that's  about  the  way  I'm  beginning 
to  think  of  the  TV  show  and  its  long  run. 
You  know,  our  studio  is  on  53rd  Street. 
I'm  beginning  to  think  of  the  show  as  the 
Miracle  on  53rd  Street." 


A  Crown  for  the  Kingfish 


(Continued  from  page  42) 
Eisenhower,  Freeman's  personal  friend. 
The  resemblance  between  Ike  and  Freeman 
is  striking.  On  another  wall  are  excellent 
paintings  of  Abraham  Lincoln  and  George 
Washington  signed  by  the  painter — Dwight 
D.  Eisenhower.  A  huge,  old-fashioned 
cabinet  holds  the  library  of  scripts  written 
by  and  for  Amos  and  Andy  for  more  than 
two  decades. 

"I  remember  very  well,"  says  Freeman, 
holding  one  of  the  bound  volumes,  "when 
Louise  Sixmma — our  girl  Friday,  then  and 
now- — demanded  some  onion-skin  paper 
for  the  scripts.  When  it  came,  we  were 
overwhelmed.  There  were  six  large  boxes 
of  it.  Charlie  and  I  looked  at  each  other, 
and  then  asked  Louise,  "You  don't  expect 
us  to  be  on  the  air  that  long,  do  you?' 
Now,  Charlie  and  I  have  been  together  on 
radio  for  a  hundred  and  five  years.  Just 
the  other  day,  I  got  a  pictiire  from  a 
friend  at  WDNX  in  Durham.  It  was  of  the 
cast  and  crew  of  the  1921  Elks  annual 
minstrel  that  we  staged.  That  was  where 
we  first  met.  Fortunately,  we've  been  the 
closest  of  friends,  so  our  work  has  been 
a  pleasure." 

Remember  when  "Amos  'n'  Andy"  were 
household  words?  When  presidents,  sen- 
ators, and  businessmen  refused  to  make 
dates  at  seven  P.M.,  so  they  could  hear  the 
nightly  adventures?  On  Freeman's  wall 
there  is  a  large  cartoon  by  Reginald  Marsh 
showing  a  multitude  on  its  knees  facing 
a  huge  clock  set  at  seven  o'clock  .  .  .  and. 


above  the  scene,  the  words  "Brush  your 
teeth  night  and  morning.  Consult  your 
dentist  twice  a  year."  That  was  probably 
the  most  heard  and  remembered  slogan 
in  the  history  of  radio. 

"We  did  the  show  for  years  from  Chi- 
cago. We  were  in  the  Palmolive  Biiilding, 
and  the  show  was  picked  up  and  recorded 
in  the  Merchandise  Mart,"  Freeman 
chuckles.  "After  six  years  of  that,  I 
bumped  into  a  fellow  on  the  street  one 
day  who  said,  'Hello,  how  are  you?  You 
don't  know  who  I  am,  do  you?'  I  said, 
'Sure — sure — I  just  can't  think  of  your 
name  right  now.'  He  laughed.  'Well,  I 
guess  you  don't  want  to  guess.  How  do 
you  like  the  way  your  theme,  "Perfect 
Song,"  is  played?  I've  been  your  organist 
for  six  years!'  " 

Today,  Amos  'N'  Andy  Music  Hall  is  a 
combination  of  Gosden  and  Correll's  own 
inimitable  brand  of  dialogue,  million- 
dollar  guest  stars,  and  good  music.  Their 
opener  in  September,  1954,  was  typical. 
They  had  Liberace  as  guest  star  and  billed 
him  as  "the  world's  greatest  entertainer." 
It  was  only  natural  that  Jack  Benny  would 
show  up  after  hearing  that!  Since  then, 
they've  had  over  one  hundred  and  fifty 
top  stars  as  guests — with  no  pay  (and  that 
includes  Benny).  The  stars  love  to  appear 
on  the  show,  and  actually  badger  their 
agents  for  a  free  guest  shot.  The  records 
are  chosen  very  carefully,  and  do  not  in- 
clude the  top  ten.  They  choose  the  very 
best  tunes  from  the  best  singers  and  keep 


y  ^     ^    ^    "y 

I       Can't  Get  Rid  of 
[park  or  Discolored  Skin, 
freckles,SkinSpots?^ 


HERE'S  HELP!  Mercolized  Wax  Cream 
7  NIGHT  PLAN  Lightens, 
Beautifies  Skin  WhileYou  Sleep 

Just  follow  the  famous  Mercolized  Wax 
Cream  7  Nigh*  Plan  to  a  whiter,  smoother, 
lovelier  skin.  Smooth  rich,  luxurious  Mer- 
colized Wax  Cream  on  your  face  or  arma 
just  before  retiring  each  night  for  one  week. 
You'll  begin  to  see  results  almost 
at  once  .  .  .  lightens  dark  skin, 
blotches,  spots,  freckles  as  if  by 
magic!  This  is  not  acoverup  cos- 
metic; Mercolized  Wax  Cream 
works  UNDER  the  skin  surface. 
Beautiful  women  have  used  this 
time-tested  plan  for  over  40  years  — you'll 
love  it's  fast,  sure,  longer  lasting  results! 
1  Krcolized  Wax  Cream  is  sold  on  100%  guar- 
antee or  money  back.    Start  using  it  now! 

MERCOLIZED  WAX  CREAM 

At  All  Drug  and  Cosmetic  Counters 


Lightens  dark 
skin  and  ugly 
spots  almost 
oi^ernlgtit. 


SOOPn&CHILD'S  Photo 


BIG  DEMAND  by  national  advertisers  for  boys  and 
girls  photos,  all  ages,  from  infants  and  up  to  18 
years.  $500  or  more  PAID  if  used  for  advertising. 
Send  ONE  small  plioto  for  approval  &  FREE  GIFTS 
offer.  Print  child's  and  mother's  name,  address  on 
back.  Returned  in  two  weeks.  NO  OBLIGATION. 
:a(-  HOLLYWOOD  AD-PHOTOS  ^ 
6087- HE  Sunset  Blvd.,  Hollywooil  28,  Cilif. 


SfjMidc 


,    COLD 
hjORES 


UPS  SOREH 

POCKET  SIZE 

39c 

^   H 


SHORTHAND  '^ 


Famous  SPEEDWRITING  shorthand.  120 
words  per  minute.  No  symbols, 
machines:  uses  ABC's.  Easiest  to 
learn,  write  and  transcribe.  Low  cost. 
Over  350,000  graduates.  For  business 
and  Civil  Service.  Typing  available. 
34th  year.   Write   for  FREE  booklet  to: 


ENLARGEMENT 

^  o/youf  Fauofrfe  Photo 


FROM  FAMOUS  HOLLYWOOD  FILMSTUDIOS 

Just  to  get  acquainted,  we  will 
_  make  you  a  beautiful  5x7  black 
^  and  white  enlargement  of  any 
>  snapshot,  photo  or  negative.  Also 
5  be  sure  to  include  color  of  hair, 
i\  eyes  and  clothing,  and  get  our 
If  Air  Mail  Bargain  Offer  for  hav- 
ing your  enlargement  beautifully 
hand-colored  in  oil  and  mounted 
handsome  frame.  Limit  2  to  a  customer. 
Please  enclose  10c  to  cover  cost  of  handling  and 
mailing  each  enlargement.  Original  returned.  We 
will  pay  $100.00  for  children's  or  adults'  pictures 
used  in  our  advertising.  Act  NOW! 

Offer  limited  to  U.S.A.   only 

HOLLYWOOD  FILM  STUDIOS,  Dept.  F-360 

7021    Santa   Monica   Blvd.,    Hollywood   38,   Calif. 


(SCALY    SKIN    TROUBLE) 


^DeRmoiL 


SEE  FOR  YOURSELF 
no  matter  how  long  you 
have  suffered.  Write  for 
^  FREE  book  on  Psoriasis 
,  and  DERMOIL  with 
,  actual  "before — after" 
^  photo  record  of  results. 


Se4u//fvr 

\generous 
Atrial 


Don't  be  embarrassed 

with  Psoriasis,  the  ugly,     \  gcQ^Nl^'  (j 

scaly   skin   disease.    Try     \  .,„r.tt\.y^^. 

non-staining    DERMOIL. 

Amazing  results  reported 

for  over  22  years!  Many 

grateful   users   report   the  ^ 

scaly  red  patches  on  body  _ 

or  scalp  gradually  disappeared  and  they 

again  enjoyed  the  thrill  of  a  smooth  clear  skin.  DERMOIL 

formula  is  used   by   many  doctors.   Must  give  definite 

benefit  or  your  money  back.  Make  our  famous  "One  Spot 

Test"!    SENDlDc  for  trial  bottle.  DERMOIL  sold  at 

Liggett  and  Walgreen  and  other  leading  Drug  Stores. 

Write  today  LAKE  LABORATORIES  Dept.  3104 

Box    3925    Strathmoor     Station,    Detroit    27,     Mich. 


93 


IVen^  Patterns 
for  Yon 


4722 — Printed  Pattern  that's  a  wonderful 
combination  of  a  graceful  sundress  with  button- 
on  collarette.  Misses'  Sizes  12-20.  Size 
16  takes  4  yards- 35-inch;   collarette,  %  yard. 
State  size.  35^' 

4666 — Designed  to  flatter  the  half-size 
figure — this  Printed  Pattern  in  Half  Sizes 
121/2-241/2.  Size  I6I/2  takes  2% 
yards  39-inch  fabric.  State  size.  354 

4820 — These  separates  are  a  cinch  to  sew — 
with  directions  printed  on  each  pattern  part! 
Misses'  Sizes  12-20.  Size  16  blouse  and 
shorts,  3%  yards  35-inch;   skirt,  314  yards. 
State  size.  35('' 


im 


4666 

SIZES 
12y2-24'/2 


T     ^ 

V — ____ 

R    Send  thirty.five  cents    (in  coin)    for  each  pattern  to:   TV  Radio  Mirror,  Pattern   Depart- 
ment, P.  O.  Box  137,  Old  Chelsea  Station,  New  York  11,  New  York.  Add  five  cents  for 
^^  each    pattern    for    first-class    mailing.    Be    sure    to     specify    pattern    number    and     size. 


away  from  instrumentals.  Then,  of  course, 
the  masterminding  of  the  actual  show  by 
George  "Kingfish"  Stevens  ties  it  all -into 
a  brilliant  package. 

"We  developed  the  character  of  Kingfish 
way  back  in  the  beginning,"  Freeman 
reminisces.  "We  needed  a  contrast  in. 
voice  between  Amos  and  Andy.  The  first' 
time  we  tried  him,  we  got  a  letter  telling 
us  to  stop  that — they  didn't  like  the  new 
character.  It  scared  us,  so  we  left  him 
alone  for  a  while.  But  we  needed  al 
chiseler  to  'play  off  of,'  so  we  changed  the 
character  a  little  bit  and  used  him  again. 
It  used  to  be  that  Andy  gypped  Amos  .  .  . 
but  now  Kingfish  takes  care  of  them  both, 
"When  we  planned  the  Music  Hall,  we 
mentally  ran  over  all  the  characters— 1 
Sapphire,  her  momma,  Algonquin  J.  Cal- 
houn, Signora  Mazzerelli,  Lightnin  and 
Kingfish.  He  was  a  natural  for  the  master 
of  ceremonies.  After  all,  he  takes  charge 
of  everybody,  including  the  lodge.  He's 
my  favorite,  too.  I'm  almost  never  without 
him,"  Freeman  admitted.  "I  play  a  lot  of 
golf  with  Phil  Harris  and  Dean  Martin 
and  they  fcoth  talk  to  me  Kingfish-style. 
Dean,  yelling  down  the  fairway,  sounds 
more  like  Kingfish  than  I  do." 

The  writers  and  producer  work  on  the 
scripts  and  casting  diu-ing  the  week,  then 
Freeman  and  Charles  meet  them  at  CBS 
at  ten  A.M.  and  start  rehearsing  with  the 
bit  players.  They  break  at  noon  and  al- 
ways have  a  Brown  Derby  lunch.  Then 
back  to  taping.  They  try  to  do  a  week's 
shows  in  one  day.  They  regulate  them- 
selves so  they  can  have  outside  lives. 

"My  day,"  says  Freeman,  "usually  starts 
when  Craig,  my  seven-year-old  son,  comes 
into  my  bedroom  with  some  excuse  for 
waking  me  up  before  I  want  to  be 
wakened.  If  he  gets  away  with  it,  then 
Linda,  age  four,  follows  triumphantly — 
and  I'm  up,  whether  I  like  it  or  not.  I  de- 
vote as  much  time  as  I  can  to  my  family. 
I've  taken  a  house  in  Palm  Springs,  and 
we  try  to  take  the  children  there  week- 
ends. After  Easter,  you'd  think  the  bu- 
bonic plague  had  hit  down  there.  Then  it's 
wonderful — no  milling  crowds — and  beau- 
tiful weather.  I  like  to  go  to  Augusta  for 
the  Masters  Golf  Tournament,  and,  the 
rest  of  the  time,  I  look  after  my  modest 
income.  I've  dabbled  in  oil  for  eighteen 
years  and  have  some  real  estate.  I  manage 
to  keep  busy,"  he  said  wryly. 

Plans  for  the  future  include  a  long,  long 
run  for  Music  Hall.  They  still  have 
seventy-nine  television  films  of  Amos  'N' 
Andy  being  used,  and  they  are  always  on 
the  lookout  for  a  great  idea  for  someone 
else.  If  they  could  build  a  new  series,  they 
would  produce  and  write — not  act.  It  is 
the  consensus  in  Hollywood  that  any  en- 
deavor Gosden  and  Correll  attempt  will, 
as  always,  be  successful.  Their  ratings  have 
always  been  impressive  in  any  medium. 
"Speaking  of  ratings,  I  remember  long 
ago  when  every  radio  show  had  impressive 
charts  and  data  to  point  up  to  the  sponsor 
how  much  he  was  getting  for  his  money. 
At  that  time,  Campbell's  was  our  sponsor 
and  Ward  Wheelock  the  ad  exec  on  our 
show.  He  came  in  one  day  while  I  was 
checking  the  ratings.  'Look,'  I  said  anx- 
iously, 'this  Fred  Waring  fellow  is  only 
six  points  behind  us.' 

"  'Don't  pay  any  attention  to  those  silly 
ratings,  Freeman,'  Ward  said  expansively, 
'they  don't  mean  a  dam  thing.  Forget  it.' 
Fifteen  minutes  later,  I  was  talking  about 
a  new  team  coming  up,  Dokes  and  Blokes. 
Ward  whipped  out  his  rating  sheet  and 
cried,  'Let  me  show  you — they're  not  worth 
a  darn.  See?  Look  at  that!'  and  he  was 
pointing  knowingly  at  a  low  rating. 

"So?  Ratings  you  only  believe  when 
you're  up — never  when  you're  down.  I 
prefer  Awards.  You  can  hold  them  in  your 
hand — and  you  know  that  a  lot  of  people 
somewhere  like  you." 


auii 


I    cfiatr 


C 


K 


THERE  ARE  THREE  BRECK  SHAMPOOS 
FOR    THREE     DIFFERENT     HAIR     CONDITIONS 

The  Breck  Shampoos  are  gentle  enough  to  be  used  on  children. 
Each  of  the  Three  Breck  Shampoos  is  made  for  a  different 
hair  condition.  One  Breck  Shampoo  is  for  dry  hair,  another 
is  for  oily  hair  and  a  third  is  for  normal  hair.  When  buying 
shampoo,  select  the  Breck  Shampoo  for  your  hair  condition. 
Breck  Shampoo  leaves  your  hair  soft,  fragrant  and  beautiful. 

The  Three  Breck  Shampoos  are  available  at  Beauty  Shops  and  wherever  cosmetics  are  sold. 

JOHN         H         BRECK        INC  •         MANUFACTURING         CHEMISTS  •         SPRINGFIELD        3        MASSACHUSETTS 

NEW         YORK  •  CHICAGO  •  SAN         FRANCISCO  •  LOS         ANGELES  •  OTTAWA  CANADA 

Copyright  1957  by  Jotin  H.  Breck  Inc. 


WINSTON 
TASTES  GOOD  1 


-..     H 


.  t  ;*,  -if/. 


9t^^ir 


The  taste  foils  tcd«e  to 

Ca/jc/ia/A^aAoi/e).. WINSTON 

You'll  like  the  extra  good  taste  of  Winstons,  too !  And  the  way 
that  exclusive  Winston  filter  —  snowy-white  and  pure  —  really 
lets  the  rich  flavor  come  through !  So,  if  you  aren't  already  enjoy- 
ing today's  most  talked-about  flavor-filter  combination,  get  your- 
self a  pack  of  Winstons  right  now  —  for  flavdry  filter  smoking ! 


R.J.  REYNOLDS  TOBACCO  CO. .WINSTON-SALEM.  N.C. 


Smoke  WINSTON. ..enjoy  the  snow-white  filter  in  the  cork-smooth  tip! 


RADIO 
MIRROR 


Dramatic  Life  Story 


MURIAL  WILLIAMS 


TRefrigfifer  Diy 


iDIO  MIRROR 


Wm  SANDS:  NEW  SINGIN'  IDOL 


•Bf* 


Lor  Diet 
^unds 

iir  a  Hurry 

• 

e  Ford  and 
lessee 


GUY  MITCHEL 

Knee -deep  in  Success 


4  Cakes  of  Personal  Size  Ivoiy 

COST  NO  MORE  THAN  3  OF  OTHER  LEADING  BRANDS ! 


Take  a  look  at  prices  of  leading  toilet  soaps 
next  time  you  shop.  Isn't  it  amazing  how 
much  less  Personal  Size  Ivory  costs— 4 
cakes  for  no  more  than  you'd  pay  for  3  of 
other  brands.  That  makes  the  4th  cake 
pure  savings!  And  such  a  beautiful  way 


to  save,  because  Ivory  is  the  finest  soap 
you  can  buy  —  so  pure,  so  mild,  so  right 
for  your  skin.  Advised  by  more  doctors 
than  any  other  soap. Yes  — take  a  look- 
That  Ivory  Look  for  your  skin.  So  radiantly 
fresh  and  clear— so  economically  yours! 


S>&rooZpu.re'..  ityioats 


^e-rsoTTCLl  jSlzg  Tuor-y  zs  yoz^-r  best:   hecLz^-tz/   l)z^z/ 


Janice  Is  a  familiar  type. 

She's  popular  with  the  girls 

.  .  .  attractive  to  men /or 

a  while.  Men  seem  serious — 

then  just  courteous — finally, 

oblivious.  Halitosis 

(unpleasant  breath)  is  a 

roadblock  to  romance.  And 

the  tragedy  is,  you're  never 

aware  that  you're  offending! 


The  most  common  cause 

of  bad  breath  is  germs . . . 

Listerine  l(ills  germs  by  millions 

Why  risk  halitosis  when 

Listerine  Antiseptic  ends  it 

so  quickly?  Germs  in  the  mouth 

are  the  most  cormnon  cause  of  bad  breath. 

The  more  you  reduce  these  germs,  the 

longer  your  breath  stays  sweeter.  Tests 

prove  Listerine  kills  every  germ  found  in 

the  mouth,  instantly,  on  contact. 

Tooth  paste  can't  kill  germs  the  way  Listerine  does 

Tooth  paste  can't  kill  germs  the  way 

Listerine  does,  because  no  tooth  paste  is 

antiseptic.  Listerine  IS  antiseptic — 

that's  why  it  stops  bad  breath  four 

times  better  than  tooth  paste.  Gargle 

Listerine  full-strength  morning  and  night! 


LISTERINE  ANTISEPTIC  .  .  .  STOPS  BAD  BREATH 

4  limes  better  than  tooth  paste 


]e  the 
one  who  has 

i^iafun! 


You're  having  a  wonderful  time 
. . .  and  everyone  seems  to  be  look- 
ing at  you!  Aren't  you  glad  you 
look  so  nice,  with  every  hair  in 
place!  You  know  it's  easiest  to 
keep  it  that  way  by  setting  and 
securing  it  with  Gayla  hold-bob, 
the  all-purpose  bobby  pin  more 
women  prefer  over  all  others. 

At  first  glance  bobby  pins  may 
look  alike,  but  women  know  that 
Gayla  hold-bob  with  Flexi-Grip 
is  the  leader  by  superior  perform- 
ance . . .  holds  better,  has  the  right 
combination  of  strength  and  flex- 
ibility, and  is  easiest  to  use. 

Do  not  accept  ordinary  bobby 
pins— insist  on  Gayla  hold-bob. 


HOLD-BOB 

BOBBY  PINS 

GAYLORD  PRODUCTS  INCORPORATED 

1918  Prairie  Avenue,  Chicogo  16,  Illinois 


TV 


RAnio 

MIRROR 


JUNE,  1957 


ATLANTIC    EDITION 


VOL.  48,  NO.  1 


Ann  Higginbothani,  Editorial  Director 
Ann  Mosher,  Editor  Jack  Zasorin,  Art  Director 

Teresa  Buxton,  Managing  Editor  Frances  Maly,  Associate  Art  Director 

Claire  Safran,  Associate  Editor  Joan  Clarke,  Art  Assistant 

Gay  Miyoshi,  Assistant  Editor  Bud  Goode,  West  Coast  Editor 


PEOPLE  ON  THE  AIR 

What's  New  on  the  West  Coast by  Bud  Goode  6 

What's  New  on  the  East  Coast by  Peter  Abbott  12 

Love  Is  a  Song  (Patti  Page) by  Eunice  Field  17 

High  Tension  on  Twenty-One  (Jack  Barry) by  Elizabeth  Ball  20 

The  Charming  Lady  Murial  Williams by  Frances  Kish  24 

Denise  Lor:  How  She  Beat  the  Weight  Problem by  Harold  Baron  26 

They  Lead  Three  Lives   (Haila  Stoddard  and  Whitfield 

Connor) by  Judith   Field  30 

Tommy  Sands:  New  Singin'  Idol by  Gregory  Merwin  44 

As  The  World  Turns  (picture  story  and  who's  who  on  the  popular 

daytime    drama ) 46 

The  Roots  We  Need  ( Leila  Martin ) by  Diane  Isola  50 

Heavenly  Twosome   (Marian  Russell  and  Peter 

Fernandez) by  Mary  Temple  52 

Patsy   O'Shea :    Her   Career 54 

FEATURES  IN  FULL  COLOR 

Dance  to  My  Dream  (June  Taylor) by  Will  F.  Jenkins  32 

Knee  Deep  in  Success  (Guy  Mitchell) by  Gladys  Hall  34 

Close  to  Each  Other  (Melba  Rae) by  Martin  Cohen  38 

Tennessee's  Ernie  Ford by  Maxine  Arnold  40 

YOUR  LOCAL  STATION 

Partners  in  Life    (WABC) 4 

Spectrum    ( WRCV-TV) 8 

Celebrities   by  the   Column    ( ABC ) 9 

The  Record  Players:  The  Coolest  Canary by  Al  Collins  57 

Prima  Donna   (WTOP,  WTOP-TV) 58 

More  Than   a  Voice    ( WNEW) 59 

The  Things  That  Count  (WSTC) 60 


YOUR  SPECIAL  SERVICES 

TV  Radio  Mirror  Goes  to  the  Movies by  Janet  Graves  10 

Information    Booth 14 

Beauty:  Fragrant,  Fragile,  Feminine  (Dorothy 

Collins ) by   Harriet   Segman  56 

New  Patterns  for  You  (smart  wardrobe  suggestions) 83 

New  Designs  for  Living   (needlecraft  and  transfer  patterns) 88 

Cover  portrait  of  Patti  Page  by  David  Workman  of  U.  S.  Features 


BUY    YOUR    JULY    ISSUE    EARLY 


ON    SALE    JUNE    6 


, .  PUBLISHED       MONTHLY      by      Macfadden 

*v"'*       PubMcacions,    Inc.,   New  York,   N.  Y. 

EXECUTIVE.      A-VERTISING      AND      EDI- 
.  T03IAL      OFFICES      at      205      East      42nd 
■eet,    New  York,   N.    Y.   Editorial   Branch 
Office:    6269    Selma    Ave..    H  Uywood    28, 
'Calif.     Irving-     S.     Manheimer,     President: 
Lee      Andrews,      Vice      President;      Meyer 
^Ol*^         Dworkin,    Secretary  and  Ti-easurer,  Adver- 
tising- offices   also    in   Chicago,    221    North 
LaSalle  Street,   and   San  Frnncisco. 

SUBSCRIPTION  RATES:  $3.00  one  year,  U.  S.  and 
Possessions  and  Canada.  $5.00  per  year  for  all  other 
coi:ntries. 

CHANGE  OF  ADDRESS:  6  weeks'  notice  essential. 
When  possible,  please  furnish  stencil  impression  ad- 
dress from  a  recent  is.sue.  Address  changes  can  be 
made  only  if  you  send  us  ycur  old,  as  well  as  your 
new  address.  Write  to  TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East 
42nd  Street.  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 
MANUSCRIPTS:   AH  manuscripts  will  be  carefully  con- 


sidered, but  publisher  cannot  be  responsible  for  loss  or 
damage.  It  is  advisable  to  keep  a  duplicate  copy  for 
your  records.  Only  those  manuscripts  accompanied  by 
stamped,  self-addressd  return  envelopes  or  with  suflS- 
cier-t  return  postage  will  be  returned, 
FOREIGN  editions  handled  through  Macfadden  Publi- 
cations Iiiternational  Co>p.,  205  East  42nd  Street,  New 
York  17,  N.  Y.  Irving  S.  Manheimer,  President;  Doug- 
las Lockhart.   Vice  President. 

RE-ENTERED  as  Second  Class  Matter,  June  28,  1954, 
at  the  Post  Office  at  New  York,  N.  Y-,  under  the  Act  of 
March  3.  1879.  Authorized  as  Second  Class  mail,  P.O. 
Dent.,  Ottawa,  Ont.,  Canada.  Copyright  1957  by  Mac- 
fadden Publications,  Inc.  All  rights  reserved  under  In- 
ternational Copyright  Convention.  All  rights  reserved 
under  Pan-American  Copyright  Convention.  Todos  de- 
rechos  reservados  segun  la  Convencion  Pan-Americana 
de  Propiedad  Literaria  y  Artistica.  Title  trademark 
registered  in  U.S.  Patent  Office.  Printed  in  U.  S.  A. 
by   Art  Color  Printins"  Companv, 

Member  of  the   TRUE   STORY   Women's   Group 


I  dreamed  I  was  Twins  m  my  JTldlU^UTOrM  Or(Z 

I'm  beside  myself  with  joy!  For  when  I  walk  down  the  street,  everyone  I  meet  looks  twice  at 
my  glamorous  Maidenform  lines!  The  duet  of  dream  bras:  On  the  left,  Pre-Lude*  Six -Way; 
on  the  right,  the  same  bra  in  a  slimming  long -line  version.  And  each  can  be  ivorn  six-ways: 
strapless,  with  straps  any  way  you  like,  for  every  neckline  in  your  wardrobe!  And  whichever 
way  you  wear  them  —  you'll  agree  they're  the  most  comfortable,  the  most  curve -snugging 
bras  you've  ever  worn!  Bandeau,  3.00.  Bandeau,  lightly  lined,  3.95.  Long-Line,  5.95. 


HAT;  EMME      SUIT:  TOWNCRAFT 


*REG.  U.  S.  PAT.  OFF.     ®I957  MAIDEN  FORM  BRASSIERE  CO.,  INC 


Bea  Wayne  and  Andre  Baruch 

of  JMBC  keep  their  feet  on  the  ground 

and  their  heads  in  the  airwaves 


Andre  doesn't  mind  that  he  nnarried  a  girl  who  can't  cook. 
hHe  can!  Bea,  on  the  other  hand,  is  the  one  who  wins  the 
trophies  for  golf,  table  tennis,   as  a   "Miss"   or  "Queen." 


Many's  the  wife  who  complains  that  she  hardly 
sees  her  husband.    It's  a  common  problem,  as 
is  the  one  that  faces  parents  whose  children  may 
be  exposed  to  harmful  slum  influences.   But  not  for 
Bea  Wayne  and  Andre  Baruch,  who  dispense  wit, 
warmth  and  music  each  weekday  at  1: 15  on  New 
York's  Station  WABC.   "We're  a  family,"  says  Andre, 
"just  like  the  people  who  listen  to  us,  be  it  on  the 
kitchen  or  the  car  radio."  But  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Baruch, 
once  known  as  "Mr.  and  Mrs.  Music,"  face  these 
common  problems  in  reverse.  .  .  .  Where  other 
husbands  and  wives  part  after  breakfast,  Bea  and 
Andre  continue  to  work  together  throughout  the 
day.    "It  could  be  a  problem,  being  together  so 
much,"  says  Bea,  "but  somehow  it  isn't."    "Sure,  we 
have  our  share  of  'discussions,'  "  Andre  admits,  "but 
if  we  agreed  all  the  time,  it  would  be  pretty  dull." 
...  As  to  Wayne,  who'll  be  11  in  June,  and  Bonnie, 
who  is  6,  their  parents  have  to  protect  them  not 
from  the  evils  of  poverty  but  of  wealth.  The  Baruches 
make  their  home  in  Harrison,  New  York,  a  very 
wealthy  community.  But  they  feel  there  is  something 
wrong  in  teenagers  dripping  with  furs  or  expensive 
cars.   When  Wayne  or  Bonnie  announce  that  a  friend 
has  a  big  new  something,  they're  told  they  can't 
have  one,  too.    "We  could  afford  to  give  it  to  them, 
but  it  would  spoil  them,"  explains  Andre.    "Later  on 
in  life,  they'll  hear  no's  and  they'll  have  to  know 
how  to  meet  them."   "What  it  amounts  to  is  that  we 
try  to  keep  our  feet  on  the  ground,"  says  Bea,  "and 
we  try  to  keep  the  children's  feet  on  the  ground, 
too."  .  .  .  Their  parents'  fame — beginning  at  age  six 
for  Bea,  during  college  for  Andre — is  something  the 
youngsters  take  in  their  stride.  When  Andre, 
who's  been  announcer  on  Your  Hit  Parade,  on  radio 
and  TV,  for  22  years,  was  doing  play-by-play 
announcing  on  the  Brooklyn  Dodger  games,  Wayne 
got  to  meet  all  the  players.   He  was  thrilled,  but 
he  never  told  the  other  boys.   "They  wouldn't  believe 
me,"  he  said.    In  the  same  way,  the  children  never 
take  news  clippings  about  their  parents  to  show  to 
other  kids.   Only  once  did  Andre  see  Wayne  cutting 
out  a  page  with  a  story  on  them.   Later,  he  learned 
that  Wayne  was  showing  his  schoolmates  an  article 
on  the  new  earth  satellite,  with  the  story  on  the 
Baruches  carefully  folded  underneath!  .  .  .  Both  the 
youngsters  appear  on  their  parents'  show  from  time 
to  time — and  no  Baruch,  parent  or  child,  is  ever 
at  a  loss  for  words.    When  everyone  begins  talking 
at  once,  they  hold  a  meeting,  with  strict  parlia- 
mentary procedure.  Bea  or  Andre  serves  as  chairman, 
the  members  have  to  ask  for  the  floor,  and 
everything  is  voted  on.  If  there's  a  tie,  the  maid  is 
called  in  to  break  it.    "And  everything  is  announced 
in  our  home,"  laughs  Bea,  "but  by  Bonnie."  If  she's 
going  to  play  the  piano,  she  announces,  "Now  I  am 
going  to  play  the  piano."  She  takes  a  bow  afterwards, 
also  acts  as  announcer  for  "that  famous  pianist," 
her  brother.   All  four  of  the  family  indulge  in 
a  mutual  teasing   society.    It  keeps   the   Baruch 
values  real — and  the  head-size  normal. 


Bonnie  and  Woyne  work  on   mosaics  as  Andre  sculpts.   He  wants  to  do  Bea — "but  she  won't  sit  still." 


"Lucky"   is  a   leftover  Hit  Parade 
prop  for  "Doggie  in  the  Window." 


Wayne  has  a   real  true  voice,   says 
Andre.  Bonnie  was  born  an  actress. 


Bea  poses  with   portrait  done  when 
she  wed  Andre,  eighteen  years  ago. 


^rJtVj'w^^  j^  ^"^'.)-^'m^ 


WHAT'S  NEW  ON  THE  WEST 


By  BUD  GOODE 


Cowboy  Clint  Walker,  here  with  Hedda 
Hopper  and  wife  Lucille,  gave  in  and 
bought  a  tux — but  kept  the  Western  tie! 


Do  a  "Golden  Deed"  for  United  Cere- 
bral Polsy,  urges  Lawrence  Welk.  Donate 
T    money  and/or  time  to  a  local  affiliate. 

V 


Chaps  and  "Chaps":  Clint  Walker  and 
his  cowboy  costume  are  inseparable.  Except 
for  the  blue  jeans  he  wears  when  working 
around  the  house,  Clint  hasn't  worn  any- 
thing but  boots,  "chaps"  and  jerkin  since 
he's  come  to  Hollywood.  But  Cheyenne 
won  so  many  awards  and  Clint  was  in- 
vited to  so  many  dressy  HoUyw^ood  affairs 
that  his  wife,  Lucille,  finally  refused  to 
accompany  him  in  his  Western  weeds. 
Clint's  attendance  at  the  Foreign  Press 
Golden  Globe  Awards  dinner  was  a  mile- 
stone in  his  career — his  wardrobe's  career, 
too.  His  closet  now  holds  8  cowboy  suits, 
three  pairs  of  worn  jeans  and  one  tux!  .  .  . 
Elvis  Presley,  who's  hip-wiggled  his  way 
to  six  Cadillacs,  doesn't  own  a  bicycle. 
Producer  Hal  Wallis  gifted  Elvis  with  a 
red  two-wheeler  at  Paramount  Studios  to 
carry  him  more  expeditiously  from  his 
dressing  room  to  the  set  of  "Love  Me."  But 
Elvis'  hip-swinging  antics,  successful  on- 
stage, were  his  downfall  on  the  bike — he 
threw  his  hip  too  far  one  way,  ending  up 
bruising  his  bumper  against  a  stage  door. 

Here's  Hollywood:  Mercedes  McCam- 
bridge  walked  onto  Universal-Interna- 
tional's "Badge  of  Evil"  set  to  greet  old 
friend,  Orson  Welles,  there  filming  his 
first  Hollywood  picture  in  seven  years. 
The  conversation  went  something  as  fol- 
lows: "Got  a  great  part  here  for  you, 
Mercy."  "Really?  Show  me."  "Look  at 
this,"  beamed  Orson,  flashing  a  half-page 
bit.  "Not  big,  but  meaty,  huh?"  The  next 
thing  Mercedes  knew,  she  was  in  costume, 
leather-jacketed,  beetle-browed  and  bang- 
ing around  on  the  floor  in  a  free-for-all 
with  leading  lady,  Janet  Leigh.  Unbilled, 
but  not  unskilled,  the  Oscar-winning  ac- 
tress drew  her  one  day's  minimum  sal- 
ary, thanking  Orson  profusely  for  the 
"chance."  Limping  slightly  on  her  way 
out,  she  said,  wryly,  "Drop  over  to  our 
Wire  Service  set  some  time,  Orson.  May- 
be I  can  do  as  much  for  you."  .  .  . 
You  Asked  For  It  host  Art  Baker  recent- 
ly learned  how  reporters  get  their  news  so 
fast.  In  filling  a  viewer's  request,  he 
spent  a  day  with  the  L.  A.  Mirror-News 
radio  cruiser.  Starting  out  at  the  Cocoa- 
nut  Grove,  where  a  worker  was  injured, 
they  then  picked  up  an  ambulance  traffic 
call,  covered  a  fire  in  Hollywood,  finally 
ending  up  on  the  Sunset  Strip,  where  a 
worker  was  killed  in  a  cave- in.  Art  found 
news-gathering  a  fast  and  sometimes  dan- 
gerous assignment.  By  the  end  of  the 
day,  Art's  face  was  as  white  as  his  hair. 

Champagne  Life:  What  do  the  subjects 
feel  when  Ralph  Edwards  comes  up  to 
them  and  says,  "This  Is  Your  Life"? 
Lawrence  Welk,  a  recent  guest,  was  lured 
to  the  NBC-Burbank  studio  on  the  pre- 
text of  doing  a  commercial  for  Dodge, 
sponsor  of  his  ABC  shows.  Spotting 
Ralph  as  he  stepped  into  the  scene,  he 
almost  said,  "Oh,  are  you  in  our  commer- 
cial, too?"  .  .  .  Only  off -camera  personnel 
of  This  Is  Your  Life  know  about  the  one- 
hundred  and  one  little  dramas  that  each 
episode  spawns.  Welk,  for  example,  leav- 
ing ABC  for  the  Burlsank  "commercial," 
suddenly  decided  to  stop  at  home  to  pick 
up  some  sheet  music.  Welk's  quick- 
thinking  secretary,  Lois  Lamont,  stalled 
him  long  enough  to  call  Mrs.  Welk  and 
tell  her  to  "hide"  daughters  Donna,  20,  and 
Shirley,   24,   who  had  flown   in   from   In- 


For  What's  Netv  On  The  East  Coast,  See  Page  12 


diana  and  Boston.  When  Lawrence  ar- 
rived at  his  Brentwood  home  shortly 
thereafter,  Mrs.  Welk  was  calmly  peeling 
potatoes.  Later,  Lawrence  learned  the  girls 
were  stifling  giggles  in  the  next  room. 

Tourists:  Pat  Boone,  his  wife,  Shirley,  and 
their  two  children  were  seen  taking  a  fam- 
ily portrait  in  the  25^  photo  gallery,  just 
like  other  visitors  at  ifabulous  Disneyland. 
.  .  .  Hugh  O'Brian  has  temporarily  put  his 
"fortunes"  in  the  hands  of  Colonel  Tom 
Parker,  the  extraordinary  showman  who's 
responsible  for  selling  the  nation  both 
Hadacol  and  Elvis  Presley  (at  $15,000  per 
night).  The  "Cuhnel,  Suh,"  is  booker- 
manager  on  the  ten- city  tour  of  Hugh's 
"Wyatt  Earp's  Western  Variety  Show." 
By  joining  forces  with  the  Colonel,  Hugh 
has  again  shown  he's  as  smart  with  a  buck 
as  he  is  with  a  bucking  bronc. 

There'll    Be    Some    Changes    Made:    Jack 

Imel,  Lawrence  Welk's  dancer-marimba 
player,  named  his  new  six-pound  son  Law- 
rence Jack.  Jack,  recently  discharged  from 
the  Navy,  reports,  "When  Greg  and  Deb- 
bie were  born  in  the  Navy  hospital,  the 
docs  wouldn't  let  me  get  any  closer  than  the 
front  door — Navy  rule,  they  said.  I  thought 
sure  this  time  I  could  be  with  my  wife 
Norma.  Three  days  before  Jack  arrived, 
I  came  down  with  chicken  pox!"  .  .  . 
Everything  good  comes  in  threes.  Rose- 
mary Clooney,  who's  always  said  she  wants 
an  even  half-dozen  children,  has  number 
three  on  the  way.  ...  It  will  soon  be  a 
trio  also  for  Peter  Potter  and  his  lovely 
wife,  Beryl  Davis.  .  .  .  John  Lupton  and 
his  wife  Anne  named  their  first,  a  daugh- 
ter, Rollin  Tyson.  .  .  .  When  Bob  Cum- 
mings'  wife  Mary  gave  birth  to  their  fifth 
child,  Anthony,  George  Burns  and  Gracie 
Allen  wired,  "Now  that  you  have  a  bas- 
ketball team,  would  you  care  to  try  for  a 
baseball  nine?" 

Casting:  Backstage  on  the  NBC-TV  Ten- 
nessee Ernie  show.  Tommy  Sands  had  just 
received  word  he  was  to  sing  "Friendly 
Persuasion"  at  the  Oscar  Awards.  Molly 
Bee  rushed  up,  threw  her  arms  around 
Tommy's  neck,  planting  a  big  kiss  and 
shouting,  "Congrats!"  Ah,  it's  wonderful 
to  be  young  in  springtime.  .  .  .  Mucho  talk 
about  Van  Johnson  making  his  live  TV 
debut  on  Playhouse  90.  .  .  .  Purty  Kathy 
Nolan  will  co-star  with  Walter  Brennan  in 
ABC's  The  Real  McCoys.  .  .  .  CBS-TV  has 
come  up  with  two  "Arsene  Lupin"  scripts 
tailored  especially  for  Jacques  Bergerac. 
The  dashing  Frenchman  who  stole  Ginger 
Rogers'  heart  would  like  to  portray  the 
daring  society  dip  on  Climax!  and  may  do 
a  series  built  around  the  lieht-fingered 
character.  .  .  .  For  his  new  CBS-TV  series. 
Spike  Jones  promises  to  come  up  with 
a  novelty — for  him.  He'll  play  a  number 
of  songs  exactly  as  they  were  written.  .  .  . 
All  networks  are  dickering  for  Art  Car- 
ney's services  when  his  contract  is  up  w'th 
Jackie  Gleason  this  June.  Nothing  de- 
cided yet.  .  .  .  George  Gobel  in  all  proba- 
bility will  alternate  for  an  hour  with  Eddie 
Fisher  next  fall,  and  viewers  can  expect 
more  variety  this  way.  We  can  see  it  now: 
George  and  his  guitar  will  supply  the 
music,  Eddie  will  make  with  the  jokes,  and 
John  Scott   Trotter  will  sing. 

Something     Old,     Something     New:     Art 

Linkletter's  nineteen-year-old  son  Jack 
has  announced  his  engagement  to  pretty 
schoolteacher  Barbara  Hughes.  Art's  re- 
action:  "Lois  and  I  feel  Jack  has  matured 


COAST 


She  came  to  visit  with  Orson  Welles, 
Chorlton  Heston  and  Janet  Leigh,  but 
Mercedes  McCambrldge  stayed  to  work. 


beyond  his  nineteen  years,  had  had  a  diver- 
sified life,  been  on  his  own  in  Europe,  and 
been  responsible  for  himself  many  years. 
We  feel  marriage  is  an  individual  problem, 
and  the  way  he  and  Barbara  are  approach- 
ing it,  seriously  and  with  understanding, 
they  can't  go  wrong.  Each  Wednesday 
night,  they  attend  a  marriage  preparation 
class  at  U.C.L.A.  They  have  to  pass 
exams!  Jack's  asked  Lois  and  me  hun- 
dreds of  questions  .  .  .  some  we  can't  an- 
swer. After  five  children  and  twenty 
years,  we  aren't  sure  we're  ready  for 
marriage!" 

Hollywood  at  Home:  Jim  Bowie  settles 
in  Cheviot  Hills!  With  the  success  of  the 
series  assured,  Scott  Forbes  and  wife, 
actress  Jeanne  Moody,  have  given  up  their 
New  York  and  Hollywood  apartments, 
bought  a  home  in  Cheviot  Hills.  .  .  .  Lar- 
ry Dean,  his  wife  Alice  and  their  baby  are 
bursting  at  the  seams  in  their  Santa  Moni- 
ca one-bedroom  apartment.  Larry  has  to 
wait  until  next  July,  when  he'll  be  twenty- 
one,  to  buy  a  house.  .  .  .  Mary  Pickford 
and  husband  Buddy  Rogers  have  just  re- 
decorated Pickfair,  famous  Hollywood 
landmark — in  Chinese  Modern. 

Horsey  Set:  NBC-TV's  Tonight  inter- 
viewer, Paul  Coates,  is  reputed  to  be  as 
hard-shelled  as  an  ex-poUce  reporter, 
which  indeed  he  is.  But  Coates  is  soft  on 
a  horse,  "No  Swaps"  by  name.  "No 
Swaps"  didn't  earn  his  moniker  merely 
because  he  can't  run  like  record-breaker 
"Swaps."  He's  a  sweet  old  nag  who  loves 
Paul's  three  children,  smartly  and  pa- 
tiently helping  to  teach  them  to  ride. 
Paul  wouldn't  "swap"  him  for  anything  in 
the  world — hence,  "No  Swaps."  Why  not 
teach  him  to  talk,  Paul?  You'd  be  a  sure 
guest  spot  with  Ed  Sullivan. 


Are  you  ever  CXCltCCt ... 


rushed?... 


That's  when  most  deodorants  fail 

but  new  MUM  Cream  keeps  working 


Try  MUM  now  — 
get  one  jar  free ! 

Mum  bonus  offer- 
buy  43^  size,  get 
15^  size  free! 
Limited  time 
only. 


*»wm  f 


WON'T  IRRtTATE  NORMAL  SKIN 
WONT  DAMAGE  FABRICS 

ANOTHER  FINE  PRODUCT  OF  BRISTOL'  MYERS 


You've  probably  noticed  .  .  .  when 
you're  under  emotional  pressure,  your  per- 
spiration glands  suddenly  get  more  active. 
That's  when  deodorants  which  depend  on 
stopping  perspiration  let  you  down,  and 
odor  often  starts. 

New  Mum®  Cream  works  a  completely 
different  way.  It  is  the  only  leading  de- 
odorant that  works  entirely  by  stopping 
odor.  Mum  keeps  on  working  actively  to 
stop  odor  safely— 24  hours  a  day— no  mat- 
ter how  active  your  perspiration  glands 
are.  That's  because  Mum  contains  M-3— 
long-lasting  hexachlorophene. 


JVILJJVL    contains  M-3   (long-lasUnghexaMorophene) 

..,it  works  when  other  deodorants  fail 


SPECTRUM 

Culture  goes  spectacular  as 
WRCV-TV  presents  ninety  minutes 
of  art,  literature  and  music 


Manuscript  uses  on  almost  bore  stage  as  Charles  Lee  discusses  the 
life  and  influences  of  on  author  and  "readers"  quote  fronn  his  works. 


Palette,    with    narrator    Norman    Brooks,    pre- 
sents color  close-ups  of  famed  art  treasures. 


Color  Recital  has  Bob  Bradley  to  host  its  adventures  In  music. 
Here,    a    presentation    by    the    Dor-Mop    Opera    Company. 


PHiLADELPraA's  Statioxi  WRCV-TV  hadn't  counted 
the  eggheads  when  they  hatched  their  ambitious 
plans  for  a  local  cultural  "spectacular"  called  Spec- 
trum. The  program  is  seen  each  Saturday  from  5  to 
6:30  P.M.  and,  judging  by  the  300-odd  letters  received 
each  week,  there  are  more  culture-vultures  than  any- 
body had  reckoned  with.  Or  is  it  that  other  channels 
are  placing  their  esteem  of  viewers  too  low?  .  .  . 
Spectrum  comes  in  three  parts,  with  Parts  I  and  III 
in  color.  Part  I  is  "Palette,"  presenting  the  works  and 
life  of  a  world-recognized  classic  or  modern  artist. 
Planned  in  conjunction  with  the  Philadelphia  Museum 
of  Art,  the  segment  has  their  storehouse  of  treasures 
to  draw  on  for  close-ups  as  Norman  Brooks  narrates. 
Part  II,  in  conjunction  with  the  Free  Library  of  Phila- 
delphia, is  "Manuscript,"  dealing  with  literature  and 
the  many  men  "who  have  shaped  the  intellects  of  hu- 
manity and  turned  the  fates  of  nations  through  the 
written  word."  Charles  Lee,  Associate  Professor  of 
Journalism  at  the  University  of  Pennsylvania,  is  perm- 
anent host.  Part  III  is  "Color  Recital,"  produced  in 
cooperation  with  the  Board  of  Education.  With  Robert 
Bradley  as  narrator,  this  is  a  weekly  excursion  into 
music,    opera    and    dance    via    presentations    by    such 


groups  as  the  Philadelphia  Civic  BaUet,  the  Ballet 
Russe  de  Monte  Carlo,  and  the  Academy  of  Vocal  Arts. 
.  .  .  First  reaction  to  the  show  suggested  it  might  be 
a  bit  "heavy."  Now,  the  three  narrators  are  getting 
more  chance  to  exercise  a  tongue-in-cheek  wit. 
"Palette's"  Norman  Brooks  was  a  boy  radio  star  and 
has  since  been  an  actor,  announcer,  newsman,  writer 
and  producer,  and  advertising  man.  Originator  of 
Channel  3's  Pick  Your  Ideal,  he's  a  native  of  Atlantic 
City,  now  lives  in  Wayne,  Pennsylvania,  with  wife 
Mary  Louise,  children  Kenny  and  Hillary,  and  spaniel 
"Balduc."  "Manuscript's"  Charles  Lee  is  well-known 
as  a  lecturer  and  book  reviewer.  He  first  appeared  on 
TV  several  years  ago  when  he  and  his  wife  Judy,  now 
"WRCV-TV's  Weather  Girl,"  ad-libbed  a  daily  show 
called  Charles  And  Judy  Lee  At  Home.  Bob  Bradley 
of  "Color  Recital"  has  been  in  show  business  since  the 
age  of  five.  He  commutes  from  Forest  Hills,  New  York, 
for  WRCV-TV's  Spectrum  and  Diamond  Theater,  is  a 
part-time  news  announcer  on  New  York's  WNEW  and 
does  the  Jan  Bart  Show  on  Newark's  WATV.  Every 
member  of  his  family — wife  Rosemary,  children  Rob- 
ert, 6,  Rebecca,  5,  and  Rosalind,  3 — has  the  initials 
R.J.B.  .  .  .  For  Spectrum  the  initials,  obviously,  are  O.K. 


CELEBRITIES  BY  THE  COLUMN 


East  Side,  West  Side, 

Louis  Sobol  knows  Neiv  York  town  and 

the  people  who  make  it  glitter 


Mr.  and  Mrs.  time  at  Eden  Roc:  The  Sobols,  Jayne  ond  Steve  Allen. 


COLUMNIST  Louis  Sobol  makes  his  home  in  eight  rooms  in 
midtown  Manhattan.    Tall  buildings  are  his  fence, 
Broadway   is  his  back  yard.    A   slight  man   decorated 
with  glasses,  a  mustache  and  a  cigar,  Louis  is  on  intimate 
terms  with  the  great  and  near-great  who  work  and 
play  there.  He's  been  in  the  newspaper  columns  for  more 
than  forty  years,  and  on  the  airwaves,  off  and  on,  since 
1932.  With  malice  toward  hardly  any  one,  Louis 
chronicles  the  doings  of  his  adopted  town  in  his  syndicated 
New  York  Journal-American  column,  "New  York 
Cavalcade."   On  The  Louis  Sohol  Show,  heard  daily  on 
ABC  Radio  from  8:00  to  8:25  P.M.,  EST,  his  conversations 
with  celebrities  are  revealing.  Joining  Louis  at  a  table 
in  the  swank  East  Side  restaurant,  Eden  Roc,  are  stars 
who,  most  usually,  are  friends  of  long  standing.   Many  are 
Louis'  "discoveries" — people  whom  he  spotted  early, 
gave  their  first  good  notices,  and  often  their  first 
introductions  to  the  "right"  people.   "I  try  for  controversy 
without  sensationalism,"  says  Louis  of  his  interviews. 
"When  I  interview  a  dancer,  I  would  never  think  of 
asking  him  if  he's  a  homosexual.    I  wouldn't  ask  Joan 
Crawford  why  it  took  her  five  tries  to  make  a  happy 
marriage.   I  don't  get  abusive."  ...  If  Louis  sounds  relaxed 
and  poised,  he  is.   But  it  was  because  of  his  shyness  as 
a  youngster  in  Waterbury,  Connecticut,  that  Louis  became 
a  newspaperman.   "I  figured  it  was  the  best  way  to  force 
yourself  to  meet  people  and  talk  to  them,"  he  says. 
While  still  in  high  school,  Louis  held  down  a  full-time 
job  on  the  Waterbury  Republican.  Then,  in  steps  that  sound 
easier  than  they  were,  he  became  an  editorial  writer 
and  then  managing  editor  of  the  Graphic  syndicate.  Next, 
he  replaced  Walter  Winchell  as  Broadway  columnist 
on  the  Graphic  and,  in  June  of  1931,  began  his  career 
with  the  Journal.  .  .  .  For  many  years,  Louis  headed  his 
own  star  troupe  at  New  York's  Loew's  State,  and  to  him 
also  goes  the  distinction  of  having  headed  the  last  big- 
time,  two-a-day  vaudeville  bill  at  the  Palace.    "I  guess 
I  was  so  bad,"  he  grins,  "that  they  had  to  close  it." 
Louis  himself  makes  all  the  openings — and  many  of  the 
closings — in  the  company  of  his  wife,  the  former  Peggy 
Marlowe,  a  singer-dancer  who  later  became  a  successful 
publicist.  The  Sobols  are  on  the  town  six  nights  a 
week.    Saturdays,  they're  at  home,  with  the  phone  shut 
off,  the  television  turned  on  and  perhaps  a  few  friends 
in  for  a  quiet  visit.  .  .  .  Looking  back  on  his  years 
along  Broadway,  Louis  says,  "The  public  has  grown  up, 
and  all  the  media  have  to  be  more  adult.   People  don't 
go  so  much  for  the  phony  Cinderella  story,  although  the 
real  Cinderella  story  will  never  lose  its  appeal."  Never 
that  is,  with  Louis  Sobol  there  to  tell  it. 


Broadway's   changed,    Louis    admits.     Now,    stars 
like   Victor    Borge   and    Phil    Silvers    shine   on    TV. 


But   new   stars   keep   conning   along.     Here,    Louis 
with    Ernie    Kovacs    and    his   wife,    Edith    Adams. 


"Pros"    or    newcomers,    Jan    Sterling    and     Paul 
Douglas    know    Louis    is    "historian"    for   them    oil. 


Looks  as  if  Anihony  Franciosa 
is  getting  tough  with  Jean 
Sinnnnons?  He's  only  trying  to 
save  her  from  Murvyn  Vye. 


TV 


MIRROR 


«h 


TV  favorites  on 

your  theater  screen 

By  JANET  GRAVES 


This  Could  Be  the  Night 

M-C-M,  CINEMASCOPE 

Another  arresting  new  personality  comes 
to  Hollywood  from  TV  dramas.  Young  and 
forceful,  Anthony  Franciosa  is  cast  in  this 
sparkling  romantic  comedy  as  the  tough- 
mannered  but  soft-hearted  co-owner  of  a 
night  club.  Partner  Paul  Douglas  hires  a 
secretary  who's  hilariously  out  of  place  in 
these  rakish  surroundings.  This  is  Jean 
Simmons,  college-bred  schoolteacher  in 
search  of  a  part-time  job.  She's  so  obvi- 
ously innocent  that  everybody  at  the  club 
wants  to  protect  her.  Adding  to  the  fun, 
there  are  lively  songs  by  blond  Julie  Wil- 
son, sizzling  dances  by  pert  Neile  Adams. 

V    12  Angry  Men 

R  UNITED    ARTISTS 

A  solid  success  when  Robert  Cummings 
and  Franchot  Tone  starred  in  it  on  TV,  this 


jury-room  drama  comes  across  with  equal 
vigor  on  the  theater  screen.  The  Cummings 
role  now  goes  to  Henry  Fonda,  only  mem- 
ber of  the  murder-trial  jury  who  favors 
acquittal  from  the  start.  With  the  deter- 
mination of  a  citizen  sincerely  intent  on 
justice,  with  the  shrewdness  of  a  man  who 
knows  people,  he  argues  his  case.  His 
prime  opponent  (the  former  Tone  role)  is 
Lee  J.  Cobb,  who  hates  the  defendant  for 
personal  reasons.  Here  you  find  the  excite- 
ment of  a  detective  story  deepened  by  in- 
sight into  character. 

The  Bachelor  Party 

UNITED    ARTISTS 

Also  based  on  a  TV  play  (by  Paddy  Chay- 
efsky,  author  of  "Marty"),  this  intimate 
close-up  of  ordinary  people  is  notable 
chiefly  for  its  honest,  sympathetic  acting. 
Don  Murray  (the  young  cowhand  of  "Bus 
Stop")  is  an  office  worker  who  has  am- 
bitions but  sees  them  fading  when  wife 
Patricia  Smith  tells  him  they're  going  to 
have  a  baby,  an  unforeseen  strain  on  the 
modest  family  budget.  Feeling  trapped,  he 
agrees  to  join  fellow  employees  in  a  bache- 
lor party  for  a  bridegroom-to-be.  This  turns 
into  a  long,  drunken  night  on  the  town, 
with  sadness  underlying  the  group's  search 
for  a  good  time.  Other  outstanding  players 
are  E.  G.  Marshall,  Carolyn  Jones. 


The  Vintage 

M-G-M,  CINEMASCOPE 

TV  trainee  John  Kerr,  who  still  does  air 
appearances  between  Hollywood  stints,  has 
a  strong  role  in  a  poetically  beautiful  film 
shot  in  the  vineyards  of  France.  Because 
John  is  wanted  for  murder,  he  and  older 
brother  Mel  Ferrer  flee  Italy  and  wind  up 
among  itinerant  workers  picking  grapes  in 
Southern  France.  Here  a  gentle  romance 
builds  up  between  Mel  and  Pier  Angeli, 
while  John,  a  youth  needing  a  woman's  un- 
derstanding, is  drawn  toward  Michele 
Morgan,  his  employer's  wife. 

At  Your  Neighborhood  Theaters 

Fear  Strikes  Out  (Paramount,  VistaVi- 
sion)  :  Powerful  movie,  with  story  and  star 
from  TV,  Tony  Perkins  plays  baseball's 
Jim  Piersall,  driven  to  mental  collapse  by 
a  family  situation. 

The  Young  Stranger  (U-I)  :  In  an  excel- 
lent film  based  on  a  hit  TV  play,  James 
MacArthur  does  a  splendid  job  as  a  teen- 
ager in  trouble.  TV  regular  James  Daly  is 
his  stubborn  father;  Kim  Hunter,  his  more 
understanding  mother. 

Ten  Thousand  Bedrooms  (M-G-M,  Cine- 
maScope)  :  Dean  Martin's  first  film  solo 
flight,  a  pleasant  musical  with  many  scenes 
in  Italy,  casts  him  as  a  dashing  bachelor 
involved  with  four  sisters. 


Showing  this  month 


ALONG  CAME  JONES  (RKO)  :  Delight- 
ful spoof  on  Westerns.  Mistaken  for  a 
deadly  killer,  Gary  Cooper  is  a  peaceable 
cowhand,  awfully  clumsy  with  puns.  But 
Loretta  Young's  a  sharpshooter! 

BELL  FOR  AD  AN©,  A  (20th):  Touch- 
ing story  of  postwar  Italy,  with  the  late 
John  Hodiak  as  sympathetic  occupation 
officer  in  a  stricken  village,  Gene  Tierney 
as  an  Italian  girl. 

COURT  MARTIAL  (Kingsley  Interna- 
tional): Tense  English  drama  centers  on 
officer  David  Niven's  trial  for  theft.  Selfish 
wife  Margaret  Leighton  betrays  him:  a 
woman-soldier  friend  stands  by  him. 

BRINGING  UP  BABY  (RKO) :  Off  on  a 

farcical  fling,  with  heiress  Katharine  Hep- 
burn chasing  shy  scientist  Gary  Grant.  A 
stray  leopard  (and  Katie's  pretty  legs) 
add  to  the  happy  confusion. 

DEADLINE  AT  DAWN  (RKO)  :  Modest 
but  effective  suspense  tale,  involving  dance 
hostess  Susan  Hayward  in  the  danger  that 
threatens  sailor  Bill  Williams. 

IT  HAD  TO  BE  YOU   (Columbia)  :  Fan- 
ciful  comedy    with    "psychological"    twists. 
Ginger   Rogers  keeps   deserting   grooms  at 
•    the  altar  because  she's  haunted  by  dreams 
^  of  Cornel  Wilde,  in  Indian  guise, 
i 

!  LADY  FROM  SHANGHAI  (Columbia): 
;  Complicated  mystery  with  the  Orson  Welles 
touch.  Sailor  Orson,  on  Everett  Sloane's 
■  yacht,  is  drawn  into  a  sinister  plot  by  Rita 
!   Hayworth's  then-blond  charms. 

LET  US  LIVE  (Columbia):  Unassuming, 
efficiently  turned  out  melodrama.  Cab- 
drivers  Henry  Fonda  and  Alan  Baxter,  both 
innocent,  are  charged  with  murder.  Maureen 
O'Sullivan,  Fonda's  fiancee,  and  cop  Ralph 
Bellamy  work  to  save  them. 

ONCE  UPON  A  HONEYMOON  (RKO)  : 
Deft  comedy-drama  set  in  Europe  of  1938 
ftnds  reporter  Cary  Grant  rescuing  Ginger 
Rogers  from  husband  Walter  Slezak,  se- 
cretly a  Nazi. 

OUT  OF  THE  PAST  (RKO)  :  Fast,  hard- 
boiled  thriller.  Gambler  Kirk  Douglas 
hires  private  eye  Bob  Mitchum  to  find  a 
thieving  girlfriend  (Jane  Greer),  who  lit 
out  for  Mexico  with  her  loot. 

OX-BOW  INCIDENT,  THE  (20th:)  One 
of  the  real  greats,  a  movie  classic.  In 
the  harrowing  drama  of  a  frontier  lynch- 
ing, Henry  Fonda's  a  doubtful  member  of 
the  mob:  Dana  Andrews,  one  of  the  trio 
accused  of  cattle-rustling  and  murder. 

PARDON  MY  PAST  (Columbia):  Gay, 
unpretentious  farce,  with  Fred  MacMurray 
in  a  dual  role.  As  an  honest  war  vet,  he's 
stuck  with  the  domestic  woes  and  gambling 
1'    debts  of  his  ne'er-do-well  double. 

SISTER  KENNY  (RKO)  :  Rosalind  Rus- 
-  sell  portrays  the  heroic  Australian  nurse 
who  had  to  fight  for  recognition  of  her 
anti-polio  technique.  With  Alexander  Knox, 
Dean    Jagger. 


ends  dull,  dry 
"thirsly'hair-  replaces 
your  natural 
beauty  oils  so  each 
and  every  strand 
shines  with  new  natural 
color  brilliance 


THE    NEW    HAIRDRESSING    IN    SPRAY    FORM 

Unlike  ordinary  hairdressings  which  "coat"  your  hair— make  it 
oily-LANOLiN  Discovery  Hairdressing  is  pure  greaseless  lanolin  in 
a  mist  so  fine  it  is  absorbed  by  each  strand  of  hair.  In  just  seconds 
you  get  the  same  beautiful  results  as  brushing  100  strokes  a  day. 


s^ 


rtO-l' 


«1.25andS1.89 

both  plus  tax 


brush .  •  • 
thafs  all! 


Used  and  recommended  by  beauticians  everywhereK Available  wherever  cosmetics  are  sold 


11 


WHAT'S  NEW  ON  THE  EAST 


By  PETER  ABBOTT 


Scooter  built  for  two  provides  transportation  for  Peter  Lind  Hayes  and  wife 
Mory  Healy,  who  hove  no  parking  problem  as  they  ploy  the  night-club  circuit. 


Papa  has  a  birthday.  When  Theo  Goetz,  who  plays  Papa  Bauer  on  The  Guiding 
Light,  turned   sixty-five,   26,000  viewers   joined   to   wish    him    happy   returns. 


Fov  What's  Neiv  On  The  "West  Coast,  See  Page  G 


12 


Come  &  Get  It:  Hoping  that  Princess 
Kelly  yearns  to  return  to  show-biz,  a  net- 
work exec  will  "vacation"  in  Monaco  this 
summer  and  pitch  the  sly  idea  of  a  spec- 
type  fikn  of  Monaco  starring  its  royal  fam- 
ily. .  .  .  Rumors  are  rife  that  Elvis  will 
marry  before  the  year's  out.  The  chosen 
gal  is  said  to  be  one  of  Davy  Crockett's 
Tennessean  descendants.  Colonel  Parker 
says  it's  a  crock  of  hogwash.  .  .  .  But  this 
is  no  rumor:  Any  moment  now,  vivacious 
canary  Betty  Johnson  will  marry  her  song- 
writing  manager,  Charley  Grean.  .  .  .  Pat 
Boone  is  nuts  about  Hollywood  and  would 
love  to  live  there  if  it  weren't  for  the 
semester  he  has  to  finish  at  Columbia  Uni- 
versity. So  the  new  Boone  show  will 
originate  in  New  York  and  Pat  will  con- 
tinue to  abide  in  his  Jersey  abode,  at  least 
until  January  of  1958.  That's  when  he 
graduates.  ...  If  you  dig  calypso  the  most, 
get  with  Victor's  "Calypso  Carnival  With 
the  Duke  of  Iron."  The  Duke  is  to 
calypso  what  Elvis  is  to  rhythm-and-blues. 
.  .  .  NBC  was  in  a  sweat  until  Dennis 
James  agreed  to  emcee  their  experimental 
Club  60  color  show  out  of  Chicago.  Den- 
ny's deft  touch  has  put  the  show  in  the 
professional  groove.  (Denny  towed  the 
wife  and  baby  along  for  the  13 -week 
stay)  ....  And  six-footer  Jan  Murray  re- 
calls it  was  eleven  years  ago  in  Chicago 
that  he  complained  to  Paul  Winchell  about 
being  so  thin.  Both  were  playing  the 
same  bill  and  Paul  suggested  that  Jan  go 
in  for  physical  culture.  Jan  said,  "Who 
needs  it?  I'm  tired  enough  already."  Paul 
explained  that  he  had  rebuilt  his  legs, 
after  a  bout  with  polio,  through  physical 
culture  and  talked  Jan  into  trying  it.  So, 
in  the  past  eleven  years,  Jan  has  built 
himself  up  from  142  to  197  pounds.  Jan 
now  has  a  gym  in  his  Rye  home  and  notes, 
"I've  been  gaining  on  the  average  of  five 
pounds  a  year,  which  means  that  by  1977 
I  should  weigh  about  300  pounds." 

Crucial  Events:  Two  gals  debut  in  the 
hot  spot  and  they  are  Polly  'Bergen  and 
Frances  Wyatt.  Polly,  in  just  a  few 
months,  has  proven  herself  to  be  the  most 
exciting  new  gal  on  TV  through  exposure 
on  To  Tell  The  Truth.  Alert,  CBS  signed 
Polly  to  an  exclusive  contract.  And  what 
Polly  has  is  just  about  everything — beauty, 
charm,  wit,  intelligence,  plus  singing  and 
dramatic  talent.  On  May  16th,  she  liter- 
ally makes  a  nation-wide  audition  when 
she  plays  and  sings  the  part  of  Helen  Mor- 
gan on  Playhouse  90.  Her  impact  may 
make  her  the  hottest  female  property  in 
electronics.  Incidentally,  Polly  is  no  novice 
to  show-biz.  She  has  had  dramatic  ex- 
perience in  a  half-dozen  movies,  a  couple 
of  Broadway  plays  and  has  entertained  in 
the  nation's  smartest  night  clubs.  Sophis- 
ticated Polly  got  started  down  in  Tennes- 
see as  a  country  singer.  .  .  .  And  then 
there  is  the  Cinderella  story  of  petite, 
pretty  Frances  Wyatt  of  the  Voice  Oj 
Firestone.  Three  years  in  the  Firestone 
chorus,  this  past  January  she  was  called 
on  to  solo  when  star  Patrice  Munsel  was 
stricken  by  virus.  Frances  got  twelve 
hours'  notice  at  her  Connecticut  home. 
She  says,  "I  remember  I  got  up  the  morn- 
ing of  the  show  as  usual,  at  6:30  A.M.  I 
made  the  beds  and  breakfast,  as  usual.  I 
dropped  my  son  at  the  nursery  and  came 
into  Manhattan  with  my  husband.  I  didn't 
lose  my  nerve  during  rehearsal  or  the 
actua'  telecast  but,  three  days  later,  when 


OAST 


watched  the  kinescope,  my  teeth  chat- 
>red  so  I  thought  they'd  fall  out."  Mail 
poured  in.  More  mail  than  the  show  had 
ever  drawn.  People  wanted  to  see  Frances 
again— as  the  star  of  the  show.  And  on 
May  13th,  she  steps  out  of  the  Firestone 
chorus  again,  and  this  time  as  the  star. 

Quickly  Now:  Jill  Corey,  who  will  sing 
in  next  season's  Hit  Parade,  is  being  sea- 
sonal-and  dating  a  big-league  pitcher.  .  .  . 
Peter  Lind  Hayes  is  all  over  the  place  in 
his  new  Lambretta  scooter.  Mary  says, 
"He's  like  a  kid  with  his  first  bicycle."  .  .  . 
Pat  Buttram  comments,  "Thing  that  im- 
presses me  most  about  our  generation  is 
how  well  parents  obey  their  children."  .  .  . 
Ed  Sullivaa  will  be  a  grandfather  for  the 
third  time  any  day  now.  .  .  .  It's  always 
difficult  to  think  of  Randy  Merriman  as  a 
granddaddy.  But  the  reminder  is  there 
again  since  his  daughter  and  grandchild, 
who  live  in  Minneapolis,  recently  paid 
him  a  visit  at  his  Garden  City  home.  The 
trip  was  mainly  paid  to  visit  with  Mrs. 
Randy,  who  has  nicely  recovered  from  a 
serious  operation.  .  .  .  When  A  Girl  Mar- 
ries goes  into  its  19th  year  on  May  29th 
and  Mary  Jane  Higby  hasn't  missed  a 
year  of  it  as  "Joan  Davis."  .  .  .  NBC  has 
announced  that  next  year  they  will  have 
no  more  "spectaculars"  so  will  everyone 
please  call  them  "specials"  instead.  Well, 
one  of  NBC's  last  spectaculars  of  this  sea- 
son will  be  the  "Festival  of  Magic"  on 
IVTay  27th,  and  it  promises  to  be  a  threat- 
ening event.  Milbourne  Christopher,  ma- 
gician, will  catch  bullets,  fired  from  a 
rifle,  in  his  teeth.  They  say  that  twelve 
or  thirteen  magicians  have  been  killed 
doing  this  trick,  but  I  doubt  it. 

Danny  Boy:  A  six-footer,  happy-go- 
lucky,  twenty-seven,  handsome  in  the 
Gary  Grant  style,  as  muscular  as  you'd 
expect  a  former  ballplayer  to  be,  is  a  real 
comer.  That's  Daniel  Patrick  Costello — 
Danny  to  Arthur  Godfrey  and  the  gang. 
Danny's  first  recording,  "Like  a  Brook 
Gets  Lost  in  a  River,"  for  Caravan,  soared 
close  to  a  quarter-million  copies  and  his 
second  release,  "That's  Where  I  Shine,"  is 
likewise  on  the  zoom.  But  Danny  had 
hoped  to  be  a  pro  pitcher  auid  was  under 
contract  to  Pittsburgh  Pirates  when  he 
broke  his  pitching  arm  and  that  was  the 
end  of  that.  "I  was  always  singing.  I  got 
to  sing.  It's  part  of  me.  I  had  fine  vocal 
training  from  the  age  of  ten  in  a  profes- 
sional choir,  the  Holy  Rosary  Choir  of 
Jersey  City."  He  was  training  with  the 
Pirates  when  he  met  wife  Mary.  To  kill 
time,  Danny  and  a  pal  had  sat  in  on  a  girls' 
Softball  game.  They  applauded  the  tall, 
pretty  blonde  on  third  base,  and  they  razzed 
her,  too.  "After  the  game  I  went  back  to 
the  clubhouse  to  apologize  for  ribbing  her. 
A  year  later,  we  married."  Danny  got  his 
first  TV  break  on  Chance  Of  A  Lifetime. 
Next  came  Talent  Scouts,  but,  the  week 
Danny  won,  Arthur  was  on  vacation,  so 
he  never  heard  him.  But,  six  months 
later,  Arthur  sat  down  to  chat  with  Jan 
Davis  and  the  McGuires.  He  noted  that 
Pat  Boone  was  going  out  of  town  and  that 
he  was  stuck  for  a  boy  singer.  Jan  and 
the  McGuires  unanimously  remembered 
and  recommended  Danny.  So  Danny 
came  in  and  so  impressed  Arthur  that  he 
has  spent  about  sixteen  weeks  with  God- 
irey  this  season.  Danny  stiU  makes  his 
■  home  in  Jersey    {Continued  on  page  87) 


Mrs.    and    Sgt.    Bilko,    alias    Evelyn 
and    Phil    Silvers,    hope   for   a    boy. 


with  the  PUSH  BUTTON 

Maass 

DUOMATIC 


'^Wi:'^ 


Zig-Zags, 

Scallops  : 

Automatically  I 

with  i 

Double  ; 

Needles  ; 


Out  of  school,  they're  telling  tales  of 
success  for  teacher  Dorothy  Olsen. 


As  Mark  Twain,  hial  hlolbrook  will  co- 
star  with  frogs  at  Calaveras  County. 


Maf9T£  Sewing  Machine  &  Supply  Corp.  | 

122  West  26fh  S».,  New  York  1,  N.  Y.  i 

OR  2615  W.   Pico   Blvd.,   los  Angeles  46,  Calif.  | 

"I'd   love  fo  own   o  completely  automatic  Morse  I 
Push    Button    Duomatic    ZIg-Zag    Sewing    Machine 

because:  I 

I 

:::::::::::::::::::::::: ' 

Name - I 

Address I 

City ^ Stote I 

Phone  No. 

4  Monthly  Contests,  starting  March,  1957  | 
This  Month's  Contest  Closes  June   30,  1957 


--____  SEWING  MACHINE 

naax^  ^^j  supply  corf. 


13 


r »  -^ 


Mo(/Se//ei/e  /n^9 
ever  e^S^z-r^ssecf 
by  PiMpleQl^^ 


New!  Clearasil  Medication 

STARVES' 
PIMPLES 

SKIN-COLORED  .  .  .  hides  pimples  while  it  works. 

At  last!  Science  discovers  a  new-type  medi- 
cation especially  for  pimples,  that  really 
works.  In  skin  specialists'  tests  on  202 
patients,  9  out  of  every  10  cases  were 
completely  cleared  up  or  definitely  improved 
while  using  clearasil. 

CLEARASIL  WORKS   FAST 
TO  MAKE  PIMPLES   DISAPPEAR 


-fV+- 


1 .  PENETRATES  PIMPLES  .  .  .  kera- 
tolytic  action  softens  and  dissolves 
affected  skin  tissue  .  .  .  permits 
medication  to  penetrate  down  into 
any  infected  area. 

2.  ISOLATES  PIMPLES  .  .  .  antiseptic 
action  of  this  new  type  medication 
stops  growth  of  bacteria  that  can 
cause  and  spread  pimples. 

3.  'STARVES'  PIMPLES  .  .  .  CLEAR- 
ASli's  famous  dry-up  action 
'starves'  pimples  because  it  helps 
to  remove  the  oils  that  pimples 
'feed'  on. 

SKIN  CREAMS  CAN  'FEED'  PIMPLES 
CLEARASIL  'STARVES'  THEM 

Oil  in  pores  helps  pimples  grow  and  thrive.  So  oily 
skin  creams  can  actually  'feed'  pimples.  Only  an 
oil-absorbing  medication  .  .  .  clearasii,  helps  dry  up 
this  oil,  'starves'  pimples. 

'FLOATS  OUT'  BLACKHEADS 

Ciearasil's  penetrating  medical  action  softens  and 
loosens  blackheads  from  underneath,  so  they  'float 
out'  with  normal  washing.  So  why  suffer  the  misery 
of  pimples  or  blackheads !  clearasil  is  guaranteed 
to  work  for  you,  as  in  doctors'  tests,  or  money  back. 
Only  69<  at  all  drug  counters  (economy  size  98«i). 


iisiPORivi/vrioisi 


14 


Largest-Selling  Pimple 
Medication  in  America  (including  Canada) 


All  the  Lively  Arts 

Please  give  us  some  information  on  Den- 
nis Hopper,  whom  I've  seen  on  Conflict, 
Cheyenne  and  other  dramatic  programs. 

S.  W.,  Houston,  Texas. 

Dodge  City,  Kansas,  1939:  Errol  Flynn, 
star  of  the  Warner  Bros,  film,  "Dodge 
City,"  arrives  in  town  for  the  premiere.  A 
three-year-old  stands  on  tiptoe  in  the 
crowd,  the  better  to  whiff  that  first  fra- 
grance of  theatrical  excitement.  Dennis 
Hopper  is  now  twenty-one,  and  his  fine 
acting  is  testimony  to  the  strength  of  that 
early  impression.  .  .  .  Going  "all  out"  for 
dramatics,  Dennis  also  made  the  golf,  ten- 
nis and  swimming  squads  while  in  high 
school  in  California,  was  a  football  quar- 
terback and  welterweight  finalist  in  the 
Golden  Gloves  tournament.  Since  then, 
summer  jobs  at  anything  from  hash-sling- 
ing to  construction  work  have  probably 
taken  Dennis  out  of  "welterweight"  for  good 
— his  five-nine-and-a-half  frame  weighs  in 
at  160  now.  A  bit  part  in  "The  Postman 
Always  Rings  Twice"  brought  the  well- 
built,  blue-eyed  youngster  to  the  attention 
of  Dorothy  McGuire  and  John  Swope,  who 
recommended  him  for  TV  castings.  A  few 
months  later,  and  three  major  studios  were 
offering  contracts — the  result  of  his  per- 
formance as  the  young  epileptic  on  Medic's 
"Boy  in  the  Storm."  Signing  with  Warners, 
Dennis  appeared  in  several  films,  notably 
"Giant"  and  "Rebel  Without  a  Cause," 
and  has  been  assigned  the  starring  role  of 
Napoleon  in  "The  Story  of  Mankind."  On 
TV,  he  has  been  seen  in  "Born  Bad"  for 
the  Cheyenne  series,  "A  Question  of  Loyal- 
ty" on  Conflict,  and  in  roles  on  other  top 
drama  shows.  .  .  .  Dennis  is  interested  in 
painting  and  sculpture,  and  the  poet  in 
him  remembers  his  first  publication,  "The 
Highlanders,"    in    his    high-school    paper. 


On  Conflict,   Dennis  Hopper  starred 
OS   Ed   in    "A   Question   of   Loyalty." 


Bernadette  O'Farrell  Is  Moid  Marian, 
Richard  Greene  stars  as  Robin  Hood. 


Calling  All  Fans 

The  following  clubs  invite  members.  If 
you  are  interested  write  to  address  given — 
not  to  TV  Radio  Mirror. 

Patti  Page  Fan  Club,  c/o  Bob  Schram, 
603  Madison  St.,  Rochester.  Michigan. 

Eddie  Fisher  (" Fisher ettes" )  Fan  Club. 
c/o  Mary  Ellen  Bukaty,  223  Clifton  Park- 
way, Hamburg,  N.  J. 

Michael  "Cochise"  Ansara  Fan  Club. 
c/o  Margaret  Steward,  R.  3,  Tuckycreek 
Rd.,  Peebles,  Ohio. 

Derring-Do 

/  would  appreciate  some  information 
about  Richard  Greene,  who  stars  in  Robin 
Hood  on  CBS-TV. 

T.  J.  H.,  Greenville,  S.  C. 

Robin's  alter-ego,  Richard  Greene,  was 
born  some  38  years  ago  in  Plymouth,  Eng- 
land. His  family  was  represented  on  the 
English  stage  for  four  generations,  but 
Richard  says  it  was  "more  than  family  tra- 
dition" that  set  him  on  his  thespian  way. 
While  still  in  his  teens,  making  good  on  his 
own  was  so  urgent  a  matter  to  him  that  he 
over-extended  his  first  role,  a  walk-on  in 
"Julius  Caesar,"  by  broad  gesturings  with 
his  spear — and  was  promptly  dismissed. 
Pained  but  undaunted,  he  kept  knocking  at 
the  London  stage-doors — not  long  in  open- 
ing to  him.  No  "spear-carrier"  today,  he 
still  totes  weapons.  The  TV  role  of  Robin 
requires  that  Richard  be  accomplished  in 
fencing  and  archery  and  the  use  of  the  lit- 
tle-known medieval  arms  such  as  the  morn- 
ing star  and  the  crossbow,  and,  of  course, 
in  horsemanship.  His  instructor  in  archery, 
Mr.  George  Brown,  has  said  his  pupil 
could  be  "champion  quality  if  time  al- 
lowed." For  an  exacting  authenticity  on 
the   Sherwood  Forest  set,  Robin  and  his 


As  Chester,  Dennis  Weaver  woos  and 
wins  pretty  Mary  Carver  on  G»«.s-;;;ofer. 


Merry  Men  are  taught  the  use  of  all  man- 
ner of  strange  battle  gear  by  weapons  ex- 
pert Gabriel  Toyne.  One  of  these,  the 
morning  star,  was  so  called  because,  were 
a  soldier  to  get  hit  with  it  on  an  early 
"morning"  before  he  was  quite  awake,  he 
v.'ould  see  "stars."  .  .  .  Before  enlisting  in 
Britain's  Royal  Armoured  Corps,  Greene 
played  in  a  movie  with  Loretta  Young 
and  made  the  Zanuck  movies  "Submarine 
Patrol"  and  "Kentucky."  On  TV,  he  has 
appeared  on  Studio  One  productions  and 
on  several  other  "live"  dramas.  ...  On 
time-off  from  his  demanding  schedule. 
Richard  tests  his  navigation  and  culinary 
skills  on  his  sailing  vessel.  The  Freyja. 
"Friends  say,"  Richard  reports,  "that  if  I 
don't  drown  them  first,  they'll  probably  die 
as  a  result  of  my  cooking."  ...  As  for  his 
future  with  Robin  in  Sherwood  Forest. 
Richard,  now  completing  two  years  of  the 
series,  confesses  he  used  to  think  one  year 
long  enough  time  to  portray  a  single  char- 
acter— but  that  "now  I'll  be  quite  happy  if 
.  we  carry  on.  ...  I  can  honestly  say  that 
I've  never  become  tired  of  the  adventures." 
In  this  he  speaks  for  delighted  audiences 
on  both  sides  of  the  Atlantic. 

Truth  Is  Stranger  .  .  . 

Could  you  tell  me  something  about  Den- 
'-.nis  Weaver? 
'  S.  B.  L.,  Sand  Springs,  Okla. 

Former  classmates  of  Dennis  Weaver 
must  have  received  the  shock  of  their  lives 
when  he  made  his  first  appearance  on 
CBS-TV's  Gunsmoke.  Dennis  plays  Ches- 
ter, Marshal  Matt  Dillon's  deputy,  and 
thereby  hangs  a  tale.  .  .  .  Back  in  his  high- 
school  days  in  Joplin,  Missouri,  Dennis 
amazed  people  with  his  physical  prowess. 
He  set  records  in  football,  track  and  field 
^  which  remain  unbroken  to  this  day.  In  the 
l  U.  S.  Navy,  he  set  a  new  track  and  field 


record  for  speed  and  agility.  At  Oklahoma 
University,  Dennis  was  listed  among  the 
Midwest's  top  athletes,  led  his  squad  to 
national  decathlon  championships,  and 
placed  sixth  out  of  thirty-six  entrants  in 
New  York  tryouts  for  the  1948  Olympic 
Games.  Somewhere  between  sports  and 
studies.  Dennis  found  time  to  develop  a 
lively  interest  in  dramatics.  All  of  which 
caused  fellow  students  to  voice  their  open- 
mouthed  admiration  by  voting  him  "Okla- 
homa U.'s  Most  Versatile  Man."  .  .  .  Den- 
nis made  his  Broadway  debut  in  1951,  later 
toured,  as  Turk,  the  "body  beautiful,"  with 
Shirley  Booth  in  "Come  Back,  Little 
Sheba."  When  a  summer-stock  company 
needed  someone  to  play  earthy,  violent 
Stanley  Kowalski  in  "A  Streetcar  Named 
Desire,"  Dennis  was  their  man.  During  a 
session  at  New  York's  famed  Actors'  Stu- 
dio, Shelley  Winters  saw  Dennis  and  rec- 
ommended him  to  Universal-International, 
who  promptly  signed  him  to  a  seven-year 
contract.  There  followed  a  series  of  riding- 
jumping-shooting-brawling  Western  roles. 
Fearful  of  being  typed,  Dennis  took  on 
different  assignments  in  such  films  as 
"Dragnet"  and  "The  Bridges  at  Toko-Ri," 
and  on  such  TV  shows  as  Schlitz  Playhouse 
Of  Stars  and  Cavalcade  Of  America.  Then 
came  Gunsmoke,  the  "big  break" — and  the 
part  of  Chester,  who  hobbles  about  perma- 
nently on  a  stiff  leg.  "It's  quite  a  switch," 
laughs  Dennis  good-naturedly.  "I  have  to 
spend  most  of  my  spare  time  in  answering 
letters  from  fans  who  want  to  know 
when  I'll  be  back  in  shape!"  All  of  which 
heartily  confirms  viewers'  opinions  that 
Dennis  is  a  first-rate  actor.  Wife  Gerry  and 
sons  Rick,  8,  and  Rob,  4,  knew  it  all  along. 

Wanted:  Frank  Parker 

Could  you  give  me  some  information 
about  Frank  Parker? 

J.  C,  Bronx,  N.  Y. 

As  Frank  tours  the  night  clubs,  his  newly- 
released  Coral  Album,  "Requests  From  the 
Mailbag,"  reprises  many  top  Parker  favor- 
ites. Incidentally,  Frank  wants  firmly  laid 
to  rest  any  talk  about  a  "feud"  with  former 
boss  Arthur  Godfrey,  who  is  a  friend  of 
twenty  years'  standing.  Frank  was  eager  to 
try  his  current  singing-acting-dancing-com- 
edy format,  with  the  future  thought  of  his 
own  TV  show.  A  letter  to  Frank  will  reach 
him  c/o  Vincent  Andrews.  501  Madison 
Avenue,  New  York  22,  N.  Y. 


FOR  YOUR  INFORMATION— If  there's 
something  you  want  to  know  about  radio 
and  television,  write  to  Information  Booth, 
TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East  42nd  St.,  New 
York  17,  N.  Y.  We'll  answer,  if  we  can, 
provided  your  question  is  of  general  inter- 
est. Answers  will  appear  in  this  column — 
but  be  sure  to  attach  this  box  to  your 
letter,  and  specify  whether  your  question 
concerns  radio  or  TV. 


Wear 

any  bathing  suit 
you  please- 
any  time  you  please 

ALL  SUMMER  LONG! 


The  answer  is  simple:  change  to  Tampax® 
internal  sanitary  protection.  Tampax  re- 
quires no  belts,  pins,  pads,  supports  of  any 
kind.  Tampax  does  away  with  chafing, 
irritation ...  is  cool  and  comfortable  at 
all  times.  Tampax  gives  you  freedom . . . 
freedom  of  motion,  freedom  of  mind. 
You  feel  unembarrassed,  socially  secure 
(Tampax  even  prevents  odor  from  form- 
ing). Carrying  is  convenient,  changing  is 
fast,  disposal  is  easy.  Don't  let  another 
summer  go  by  without  Tampax!  Get  your 
choice  of  3  absorbencies  (Regular,  Super,  i, 
junior)  wherever  drug  products  are  sold. 
Tampax  Incorporated,  Palmer,  Mass. 

15 


16 


Must  a  woman  live  forever  in  the 
shadow  of  her  mother-in-law? 

You're  married.  You  love  your  husband.  He  loves  you— deeply.  But  you  feel  in  his 
love  for  his  mother  an  older,  more  powerful  pull.  Can  you  shake  him  free  of  his 
mother's  grasp  without  destroying  your  own  marriage?  What  does  a  wife  do  when 
the  other  woman  is  her  own  mother-in-law?  Learn  to  know  The  Second  Mrs.  Burton. 
Let  her  share  her  struggles  with  you.  You'll  want  to  make  a  place  for  her  in  your 
life.  You  can  get  the  whole  story- even  while  you  work— when  you  listen  to  daytime 
radio.  Listen  to  THE  SECOND  MRS.  BURTON  on  the  CBS  RADIO  NETWORK. 

Monday  through  Friday.  See  your  local  paper  for  station  and  tinne. 


By  EUNICE  FIELD 

LOVE,  says  Mr.  Sourpuss,  is  only  a 
printer's  error  in  the  Book  of 
Life.  Life,  says  Miss  Stars-in-Her- 
Eyes,  is  only  a  postscript  to  the  Book 
of  Love.  But  enchanting  Patti  Page 
— once  Clara  Ann  Fowler  and  re- 
cently turned  Mrs.  Charles  O'Curran 
— cries,  "Bosh!  Life  and  love  go  to- 
gether like  a  lyric  and  a  tune — and 
I  hope  that  every  day  from  now  on 
will  be  another  song  in  my  Book  of 
Happiness!" 

Such  is  the  wonder  that  romance 
and  marriage  has  wrought  for  a  girl 
who  is  one  of  the  brightest  stars  in 
entertainment — but  who  admits  that 
her  devotion  to  her  career  was  by 
way  of  turning  her  into  "the  lone- 
liest little  doggie  in  show  business." 
It  is  no  secret  that,  until  she  fell  in 
love  with  Charlie,  Patti  refused  far 
more  dates  than  she  accepted,  and 
her  "going  out"  was  gradually  being 
restricted  to  taxi  rides  between  her 
hotel  and  the  spot  where  she  was 
currently  being  featured. 

"I've  always  given  everything  I 
had  to  the  show,"  she  explained, 
"and,  after  a  while,  I  got  into  the 
habit  of  drifting  back  to  my  hotel 
to  read,  listen  to  records  or  watch 
television.  Imagine  the  blessing  of 
being  married  to  a  man  like  Charlie! 
He  not  only  loves  spending  time  with 
people  and  having  fun,  but  won't  let 
me  go  into  a  shell." 

This  very  notion  of  a  "good-time 
Charlie"  had  dismayed  Patti,  at  first 
— ^while  Charlie  had  a  mistaken  idea 
of  a  too-prim  Patti.  Between  them, 
these  two  wrong  impressions  almost 
withered  a  romance  before  it  had 
actually  begun  to  bud.  Patti  speaks 
of  it  now  with  reminiscent  humor. 
She  was  to  open  at  the  fashionable 
Fontainebleau  in  Miami,  and  she 
wanted  something  new  and  exciting 
I  in   staging.    Charlie   was   suggested 


fimiJa 


'om 


See  Next 


Pa^e  y 


A  hymn  of  happiness,  a  ballad  of  marital  bliss  .  .  . 
for  Patti  Page  and  bridegroom  Chafles  O'Curran 


17 


Setting  the  license  in  Las  Vegas — with  only  three  days 
for  a  honeymoon — it  seenried  like  a  whirlwind  marriage.  But 
Patti  and  Charlie  had  been  dreaming  ahead  for  months. 


Patti  was  as  lovely  a  bride  as  Charlie  could  ever  have 
imagined.  And  they  were  attended  by  two  of  their  closest 
friends — Ray   Ryan   (at  left),   Mrs.   Edward   Barrett  (right). 


7 


by  General  Artists  Corporation,  their 
mutual  booking  agency.  Patty,  who 
admired  his  artful  staging  of  acts,  as 
well  as  the  innovations  he  had  brought 
to  the  styling  of  many  song  and  dance 
numbers,  was  more  than  willing. 

The  hitch  was  Charlie.  Three  years 
before,  he  had  turned  her  down  on 
a  similar  offer,  with  a  rather  curt, 
"Too  busy!"  Now  Patti  made  up  her 
mind  that  he  "would  at  least  have  to 
see  what  he  was  turning  down."  The 
irresistible   force   got   in   touch   with 


the  immovable  object — and,  as  a  re- 
sult, moved  it  as  far  as  Boston.  Charlie 
flew  out  and  caught  her  show  at  Blin- 
strub's.  One  week  later,  they  were 
lunching  together  in  New  York. 

"Sure,  you're  a  terrific  talent," 
Charlie  said.  "And,  obviously,  there's 
a  real  beauty  behind  that  high-necked 
wholesome  thing  you're  wearing.  But, 
you  see,  I'm  an  informal  sort  of  guy. 
I'm  not  above  blowing  my  stack  once 
in  a  while,  and  what  comes  out  won't 
be  'Fudge!'  or  'Fiddle-faddle!'    And 


There'll  be  more  closet  space — and 
room  for  "expansion" — in  the  home 
they   plan    to    build    in    Palm    Springs. 


Charlie  likes  exotic,  gourmet  fare, 
but  Patti  admits  her  own  home-cooking 
runs  only  to   "plain,   nourishing  food." 


Her  Yorkshire  terrier.  Window,  was  a 
gift  from  Charlie,  is  named  after  her 
record  hit,   "Doggie  in  the  Window." 


Wedding  took  place  at  the  Las  Vegas  home  of  Wilbur 
Clark,  owner  of  The  Desert  Inn — and  the  cake  was  just 
as  towering  as  the  Page-O'Curran  hopes  for  the  future. 


you,  Miss  Page,  are  the  type  of  girl — " 

Patti  chuckled.  "I  can  see,  Mr. 
O'Curran,  that  you  think  you're  hav- 
ing lunch  with  Grandma  Moses  and 
Ma  Kettle  rolled  into  one." 

Charlie  looked  at  her  more  care- 
fully. "Look,  t'atti,  I'm  not  against 
sweetness  and  wholesomeness.  I'd  hate 
to  see  you  lose  those  qualities.  But  I 
think  it's  time — and  I  have  a  hunch 
the  public  will  agree — that  the  girl- 
next-door  show  signs  of  growing  into 
the  woman-next-door.  Brotherly  ap- 
plause is  great,  but  I  can  see  you  in  a 
gown  with  a  little  imagination  to  it, 
getting  a  few  whistles  for  yourself." 

It  was  Charlie's  turn  to  be  bowled 
over.  "That's  exactly  how  I  can  see 
myself,"  Patti  replied.  "That's  why 
I'm  asking  you  to  stage  my  act,  and 
I'm  not  taking  no  for  an  answer.  As 
for  whistles,  Mt.  O'Curran,  most  peo- 
ple will  assure  you  that  I  have  been 
getting  my  fair  share." 

So  at  first  it  was  strictly  business. 
Then  the  magic  of  proximity  began  to 
work.  And  when  the  show  opened — 
with  Patti  about  fifteen  pounds  slim- 
mer and  in  a  gown  that  set  off  her 
lovely  curves — Charlie  rushed  back- 
stage to  ask  for  a  date.  For  Patti  had 
got  more  than  a  share  of  whistles. 
And  the  loudest  of  the  wolf  calls  had 
come  from  Charlie. 

Patti  accepted  this  first  date  rather 
timidly.    "I      (Continued  on  page  78) 

The  Patti  Page  Show  is  seen  over  Station 
WCBS-TV  (New  York  City),  Saturdays,  at 
6:15  P.M.  EDT.  For  day,  time  and  station 
in    other    areas,    consult    local    newspapers. 


Ryan  gave  them  a  car,  lent  them  a  house  in  Palm  Springs. 
Later,  back  in  Hollywood,  Patti  visited  Charlie,  working  at 
Paramount  as  choreographer-arranger  for  "Loving  You." 


mu  nmwHonli 


Suspense  mounted  as,  week  after  week,  Charles  Van  Doren 
probed  his  amazing  memory  to  answer  Jack  Barry's  queries. 
The  first  opponent  he  faced  was  college  student  hHerbert 
Stempej  (far  right),  who  waged  gallant  but  losing  battle. 


By  ELIZABETH   BALL 

You  ARE  ON  YOUR  OWN.  You  have  never  been  so  alone 
in  your  life,  though  millions  are  watching  every  move 
you  make,  listening  to  every  word  you  utter.  In 
your  soundproof  studio  on  Twenty-One,  you  see  only  the 
bright  lights  above  you,  the  shadowy  void  from  which 
Jack  Barry  asks  the  all-important  question.  Over  your 
earphones,  you  hear  only  Jack's  clear,  friendly  voice — or 
music  recordings  which  cover  the  remotest  chance  of 
overhearing  anything  else  being  said  in  the  world  outside. 
You  wait  for  the  next  gambit  in  this  fascinating,  fabu- 


% 


Two  by  two,  contestants  face 
each  other  for  the  golden  chance 
to  shake  that  lovely  green  stuff 
from  Jack  Barry's  "money  tree' 


^" 


lously  rewarding  game.  And  you  wonder:  What  will  the 
category  he?  Can  I  answer?  If  I  do,  should  I  go  the 
limit  for  eleven  points  on  the  next  one — or  choose  an 
easier  question  for  fewer  points?  Is  my  score  higher  or 
lower  than  that  of  my  rival  in  the  other  booth?  Should 
I  call  a  halt,  when  I  have  the  chance — trusting  that  my 
own  score  is  closer  to  21?  The  tension  moimts  .  .  .  the 
pressure  increases.  .  .  . 

Could  you  take  it,  as  Charles  Van  Doren  took  it,  for 
fourteen  separate  nights,   in  the  most  eagerly  watched 


Twenty-One  is  seen  on  NBC-TV,  three  Mondays  out  of  four,  at  9  P.M.,  sponsored  by  Pharmaceuticals,  Inc.,  for  Geritol  and  other  products. 
Jack  Barry  is  also  emcee  of  Tic  Tac  Dough,  as  seen  on  NBC-TV,  Monday  through  Friday,  12  noon,  under  multiple  sponsorship.    (All  EDT) 

Continued  w 


20 


^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^w  ^^^^^^H  '^ 

a 

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^I^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^B  ■             ^^^^^^^^H 

^MMHiIlUi^^HA  ^^^V  A 

{ :. 


i:_.                ^ 

Ml 

-~~:^/ 

«34Mk 

li' 

L. 

11, 

F 


I 


ON  THE  AIR^ 


Long-run  battle  of  the  booths — between  Vivienne  Nearing,  New  York  attorney,  and  Charles  Von  Doren,  Columbia  U.  instructor. 


/an  Doren  held  his  booth  for  fourteen  weeks,  three  of  thenn 
against  Mrs.  Nearing.  Three  times,  they  tied.  The  fourth — ? 


Winner — and  next  to  face  the  high  tension — Mrs.  Nearing. 
She  took  a  chance  on  17  points,  proved  to  be  closest  to  21. 

m 


TV  news  interests  Van   Doren   now— 
RCA    just    gave    hinn    his    first    set! 


He's    co-author    of    a    book    on    the 
Civil    War — "Lincoln's    Commando." 


Tastes  range  from  sports  to  music- — 
he    taught    himself    to    play    guitar. 


Bachelor  Charles  relaxed  from  Twenty-One  tension  with 
his  parents,  Mark  ond  Dorothy  Von  Doren  (above).  Father 
is  a  Pulitzer  Prize  poet,  mother  an  author  and  editor. 
Vivienne  got  coffee  and  encouragement  from  husband 
Victor,  who's  also  an  attorney — and  previous  contestant. 


Mff/F/mmm^f 


(Continued) 


duel  of  wits  in  this  TV-quiz  era?  Could  you  take  it,  as 
Vivienne  Nearing  did,  competing  against  Van  Doren  for 
three  of  those  sessions — then  stepping  into  the  central 
spotlight  herself,  to  be  challenged  in  turn?  It  could 
happen  to  you,  as  explained  further  on.  But,  first,  let's 
see  what  happened  to  these  two. 

"It's  been  a  tremendous  strain,"  Van  Doren  admitted 
frankly,  as  he  said  farewell  to  the  familiar  soundproof 
booth.  "I'll  sure  enjoy  watching  on  television  next  week!" 
Until  last  December,  Charles — thirty -one,  six-foot-two, 
brown-haired  and  athletic — was  known  only  on  the  Co- 
lumbia University  campus,  where  he  teaches  English 
literature  for  $4,400  a  year.     Then,  as  he  demonstrated 


22 


Board  of  strategy  meets  at  "Barry  &  Enright":  Glorianne 
Raden  questions  expert;  Al  Friedman,  producer  of  T-Wenty-One; 
Jack  Barry;  Dan  Enright;  and  Bob  Noah,  executive  producer. 


his  amazing  knowledge  of  so  many  diflferent  subjects  on 
Twenty-One,  his  mail  leaped  from  a  half-dozen  letters 
to  five  hundred  a. week,  his  phone  rang  so  often,  day  and 
night,  he  had  to  request  an  unlisted  number. 

Proposals  of  marriage  poured  in  upon  the  bedazzled 
bachelor — who  stoutly  maintained  that  he  has  no  plans 
to  marry  soon,  even  though  a  joint  income-tax  return 
for  1957  could  save  him  at  least  $20,000  of  the  some 
$90,000  Uncle  Sam  wiU  otherwise  take  from  his  final 


Twenty-One  winnings  of  $129,000.  Early-bird  students 
wrote  messages  on  his  classroom  blackboard,  ranging 
from  teaser  questions  to  a  waggish  "I  know  a  good  but  not 
too  honest  accountant!" 

For  Vivienne— thirty,  blond-haired,  attractive  and  al- 
ready married — there  were  no  proposals.  But,  from  the 
moment  she  first  faced  Van  Doren,  she  reported  there 
were  wonderful  letters:  "Warm  and  personal  letters  from 
women  who  urged  me  to  keep   {Continued  on  page  72) 


Barry  is  very  happy  about  the  show's  resounding  success, 
but  happiest   of   all    in    his    home  life    with    his   family. 


Wife  is  former  Marcia  Van   Dyke,  violinist,   singer  and 
actress.  Their  sons  are  Jeffrey,  31/2,  and  Jonathan,  2'/2. 


Actress:  Youthful  Murial  in  Cape  Cod  days — with  Richard 
Aldrich  (at  left),  Arthur  Sircom,  the  late,  great  Gertrude 
Lawrence  ("Mrs.  A/'),  and  Jules  Glaenzer  (back  to  cannera). 


Executive:  At  a  thriving  agency  in  Boston, 
Murial  Williams  Hart  trairted  nnodels,  ran  a 
busy  office,   and   staged    big  fashion   shows. 


By  FRANCES  KISH 

jCtunning,  red-haired  actress  Murial 

Williams  was  chatting  with  us  on  a 
recent  morning,  in  the  living  room  of  her 
Greenwich  Village  apartment.  We  were 
discussing  some  of  the  qualities  that 
give  a  girl  charm,  glanfiour,  style.  Quali- 
ties which  make  her  Exciting  and 
fascinating  as  a  person,  as  a  woman. 

The  apartment  itself,  in  a  century-old 
house  once  belonging  to  some  squire  of 
the  mid-1800's,  had  many  of  the  qualities 
we  talked  about:  Charm,  individuality, 
character  of  its  own.  Furnished  in  Early 
American,  in  keeping  with  its  tradition 
and  with  Murial's  New  England  back- 
ground; with  cupboards  and  open  shelves 
of  old  china  and  books  old  and  new; 
with  wide  fireplaces  and  comfortable 
chairs  and  couches;  and  window  plants  set 
against  ruffly  curtains.    A  feminine 
apartment,  and  an  inviting  one. 

Afternoons,  on  CBS-TV,  Murial  is 
Lydia  Canfield,   (Continued  on  page  68) 

Murial  is  Lydia  in  The  Brighter  Day,  seen  over 
CBS-TV,  M-F,  4  P.M.  EDT,  as  sponsored  by  The 
Procter  &  Gamble  Co.  for  Cheer,  Gleem,  Crisco. 


The  Brighter  Day:  As  Lydia,  she's  TV-wed  to  Max 
Canfield  (Herb  Nelson,  right).  Others  in  rehearsal 
shot  are  director  Del  Hughes  (left),  producer  Terry 
Lewis,  and  Hal  Holbrook,  who  plays  Grayling  Dennis. 


24 


Like  Lydia  Canfield,  in  The  Brighter  Day, 
Murial  Williams  believes  in  women's  courage 


Both  on   stage  and  off,    Murial  thinks   every 
woman  should  be — first  and  last — a  wonnan. 


Now  widowed,   she   lives  alone,    but  fills   her 
life    with    activities    and    friends    that   count. 


25 


Actress:  Youthful  Murial  in  Cape  Cod  days — with  Richard 
Aldrich  (at  left),  Arthur  Sircom,  the  late,  great  Gertrude 
Lawrence  ("Mrs.  A.''),  and  Jules  Glaenzer  (back  to  camera]. 


Executive:  At  a  thriving  agency  in  Boston, 
Murial  Willianns  Hart  trained  models,  ran  a 
busy   office,   and   staged    big   fashion   shows. 


^tme:  cM.^it.]%fl:iTvrc;;r 


By  FRANCES  KISH 

KJtunning,  red-haired  actress  Murial 

Williams  was  chatting  with  us  on  a 
recent  morning,  in  the  living  room  of  her 
Greenwich  Village  apartment.  We  were 
discussing  some  of  the  qualities  that 
give  a  girl  charm,  glamour,  style.  Quali- 
ties which  make  her  fexciting  and 
fascinating  as  a  person,  as  a  woman. 

The  apartment  itself,  in  a  century- old 
house  once  belonging  to  some  squire  of 
the  mid-1800's,  had  many  of  the  qualities 
we  talked  about:  Charm,  individuality, 
character  of  its  own.  Furnished  in  Early 
American,  in  keeping  with  its  tradition 
and  with  Murial's  New  England  back- 
ground; with  cupboards  and  open  shelves 
of  old  china  and  books  old  and  new; 
with  wide  fireplaces  and  comfortable 
chairs  and  couches;  and  window  plants  set 
against  ruffly  curtains.   A  feminine 
apartment,  and  an  inviting  one. 

Afternoons,  on  CBS-TV,  Murial  is 
Lydia  Canfield,  (Continued  on  page  68) 

Murial  is  Lydia  in  The  Brighter  Day,  seen  over 
CBS-TV,  M-F,  4  P.M.  EDT,  as  sponsored  by  The 
Procter  &  Gamble  Co.  for  Cheer,  Gleem,  Crisco. 


The  Brighter  Day:  As  Lydia,  she's  TV-wed  to  Max 
Canfield  (Herb  Nelson,  right).  Others  in  rehearsal 
shot  are  director  Del  Hughes  (left),  producer  Terry 
Lewis,  and  Hal  Hojbroolc,  who  ploys  Grayling  Dennis. 


24 


Both  on   stage  and  off,   Murial  thinks   every 
woman  should  be — first  and  last — a  woman. 


Now  widowed,   she   lives  alone,    but  fills   her 
life  with   octivities   and  friends  that  count. 


Like  Lydia  Canfield,  in  The  Brighter  Day, 
burial  Williams  believes  in  tvomen's  courage 


'emJe 


How  She  Beat  thf 


Garry  Moore— and  audiences— thought  Denise  looked  fine  on  his  daytime  show, 
bhe  didn  t  worry  about  anything  but  straightening  her  stockings  over  a  trick  -:'— ^ 
—till  she  saw  herself  at  full-length,  faced  the  facts,  and  found  two  simpk 


le  rules. 


By  HAROLD  BARON 

FOR  YEARS  Denise  Lor  has  been  saying,  "I'll  start  mv 
diet    tomorrow."    She   knew    that   she    was    getting 
plump,  but  the  milHons  of  housewives  who  enjoy  her 
songs  and  mimicry  five  mornings  a  week  on  The  Garry 
Moore  Show  didn't  seem  to  mind. 

"The   routine    of   not   eating,    to   lose   weight,    never- 
worked  for  me,"  Denise  says  sadly.  "I  used  to  starve 
myself  for  three  days,  but  then  I'd  start  eating  again— 
with  revenge  in  my  heart  and  a  hole  in  my  insides'" 
However,  last  February,  Denise  was  faced  with  a  con- 


26 


tract  to  sing  in  one  of  New  York's  most  elegant  supper 
clubs,  the  Persian  Room  at  the  Plaza  Hotel. 

She  simply  couldn't  appear  before  the  dazzling  supper- 
club  set  looking  "comfortably  plump."  In  three  weeks, 
she  had  to  have  a  figure  that  was  sleek  and  chic— the 
same  problem  other  women  will  be  facing  when  sum- 
mer swimming  starts,  and  they  have  to  trim  off  winter 
weight  to  look  their  best  in  bathing  suits. 
For  Denise,  it  was  sink  or  sing:  Sink  with  ten  pounds' 

overweight,  or  sing  with  ten  pounds  less  in  three  weeks. 

Denise  Lor  is  the  featured  feminine  singer  on  The  Garrv  M^nr^  c/.  '  " ~ 

Thursday  from  10  to  10:30  A.M.  EDT,  aTd' Friday  flrio1oir^n\"M^^Tr^nl^  on  weekday  mornings-Monday  through 

y  iiom  lu  to  11. dU  A.M.  LDl— under  multiple  sponsorship. 


Weight  Problem 

First,  get  a  singing  assignment 
at  the  Plaza.   Then  take  a  look 
in  the  mirror.  Denise  did  ... 
and  took  12  pounds  off  in  a  hurry 


H^v        'iv^iHH 

Husband  Jay  Martin  and  older  son  Ronnie  thought  she 
wos  just  about  perfect.  But  Denise  wanted  to  fit  into 
those  cflamour  gowns — and,  in  three  weeks,  she  did  it! 


She  took  the  weight  off  successfully  (with  a  couple  of 
pounds  to  spare) — and  so  can  anyone  else  who  faces 
her  mirror  and  looks  the  fat  squiarely  in  the  hips.  Denise 
found  that  was  the  secret:  Face  up  to  the  facts  and  eat 
sensibly,  instead  of  compulsively. 

In  admitting  that  she  had  to  slim  down,  Denise  shows 
the  same  forthright  quality  that  makes  her  songs  so 
believable  and  appealing.  Her  candor  adds  a  rare 
quality  of  depth  to  her  singing  characterizations,  and  also 
blesses  her  with  an  engaging  charm  offstage. 


Mr. 


-"\ 


^i 


V  »?7 


l^^'S 


Continued 


► 


^iet  she  did!  But  Denise  Lor  also  went  into 


On  the  bars:  Beginning  this  exercise  is  relaxed  and  easy — but  the  pull  up  stretches  the  whole  body  fronn  toes  to  fingertips. 


Honesty  is  essential,  with  such  a  problem  as  losing 
weight — you  can't  cheat  with  calories.  But  a  sense  of 
humor  helps,  too.  Denise  has  one  which  sparkles.  She'd 
rather  see  the  funny  side  of  things  than  not.  And,  when 
it  comes  to  reducing,  she's  the  first  to  admit  that  it 
makes  for  an  amusing — ^Lf  doubly  difficult — conflict  for 
her,  because  of  her  consuming  interest  in  cooking  and 
eating.  Denise  has  been  able  to  do  both,  supremely  well, 
from  earliest  childhood. 

"I'm  insulted,"  she  grins,  "if  I  buy  a  pie  and  it  has 
a  crust  as  good  as  mine.  I  love  to  bake  pies.  Not  one  at 
a  time — at  least  four."  And  she  has  just  the  family  to 


Mechanical  stair:  Leg  muscles  need  to  be  kept  firnn,  by 
stepping  up  and  down,  pressing  against  spring  at  bottom. 


eat  them,  in  their  modest  seven-room  house  at  Green- 
wich, Cormecticut.  Her  husband,  vocalist  Jay  Martin, 
not  only  records  for  M-G-M  but  revels  in  Denise's  cook- 
ing. Both  their  sons — ^Dennis,  five,  and  Ronnie,  nine — 
are  good  pie-eaters. 

"The  boys  like  apple  pie,"  says  Denise,  "but  I  like 
lemon  meringue,  mince,  or  nice,  rich  fruit  pies.  A  piece 
of  pie  always  calls  for  a  glass  of  milk,  and  the  boys  like 
ice  cream  on  top  of  theirs.  I  was  known  to  give  in  to  that 
temptation,  too.  And,  when  Dennis  was  a  baby,  I  used 
to  eat  half  a  pie  when  I  got  up  to  warm  his  bottle!  I 
loved  pie  for  breakfast,  too." 

The  two  boys  vary  greatly  in  their  eating  habits.  Den- 
nis likes  gooey  foods.  He's  a  cookie-eater,  dessert-eater, 
and  slathers  butter  on  his  bread — ^none  of  which  Denise 
approves  now,  because  she  knows  it's  not  good  for 
children  to  be  overweight.  Ronnie,  on  the  other  hand, 
is  the  steak-eater.  "I  think  he  can  eat  twelve  pounds 
of  steak  at  one  sitting,"  Denise  sighs.  "Myself,  I  like 
kidney  stew  with  wine.  I  order  a  flavorsome  veal  scal- 
lopini  in  a  restaurant,  not  steak  or  roast  beef.  Nobody 
but  the  dog — the  boys'  golden  retriever — ^will  share  some 
of  the  things  I  cook.  Beef  heart,  for  example." 

Denise's  father  died,  when  she  was  a  child,  so  her 
mother  worked  to  support  them  both.  Expensive  foods 
like  steak  and  chicken  were  out  of  the  question,  but 
meats  like  kidney  and  liver  were  inexpensive,  and  fish 
was  only  ten  cents  a  pound.  "Sometimes,"  Denise  re- 
calls, "Mother  would  buy  the  whole  head  of  a  cow  from 
the  butcher.  That  was  a  bargain.  We'd  have  delicious 
beef  tongue,  the  delicately  flavored  brains  sauteed,  and  a 
flavorsome  stew  made  from  the  cheeks.  Few  Americans 
ate  that  kind  of  food  then.  But,  being  French,  Mother 
made  everything  tasty  with  mouth-watering  sauces. 

"My  mother  was  a  scrumptious  cook.  There  was  prac- 
tically nothing  she  couldn't  do  in  the  kitchen,  and  she 
never  consulted  a  cookbook.  Her  knack  for  preparing  a 
dish,  seasoning  it — and  never  tasting  it  until  it  reached 
the  table — was  phenomenal.  That's  not  true  of  me.  I'm 
a  taster.  And  you  know  what  calories  that  means,  with 
those  rich  sauces!" 

Being  poor,  Denise  was  brought  up  not  to  waste  food 
by  leaving  it  on  her  plate.  "I  stiU  don't  believe  in  wasting 
food,"  she  says,  "but  I  try  not.  to  be  the  kind  of  mother 


crash-program  of  exercise.  It  worked  .  ,  • 


Up  and  over:  This  spinal  exercise  strengthens  back-muscles  and  helps  good  posture — then  over,  to  tighten  a  sagging  midriff. 


who  thinks  that  eating  a  lot  is  good  for  children.  When 
I  was  a  child,  I  think  I  grew  sideways  as  fast  as  I  grew 
up." 

Until  she  was  sixteen,  Denise  was  chubby.  "I've  never 
been  skinny,"  she  sighs.  Asked  if  she  believes  that  she 
inherited  plumpness,  she  admits  with  characteristic  can- 
dor and  humor,  "No,  I  don't  think  the  other  girls  had 
appetites  as  receptive  as  mine." 

At  the  time,  she  was  convinced  she  was  going  to  be 
seven  feet  tall.  Whenever  her  class  had  to  line  up  by 
size,  she  was  at  the  end  of  the  line.  Even  when  she  was 
only  five,  a  snapshot  taken  on  the  way  to  France  for 
a  family  visit  shows  her  with  other  youngsters  three  or 
four  years  older,  but  Denise  is  the  tallest — and  the 
roundest. 

Later,  she  recalls,  "I  used  to  put  a  weight  on  my  head 
to  keep  from  growing  taller.  Next  to  most  of  my  girl 
friends,  I  knew  I  looked  fat.  That  made  me  self-con- 
scious on  dates,  and  I  was  always  afraid  that  someone 
would  point  at  me  and  call  me  fat. 

"The  exercises  I  tried  didn't  help.  Now  I  know  there 
is  just  one  safe  way  to  reduce.  In  those  days,  I  had  bad 
eating  habits  and  it  was  hard  for  me  to  change  them. 
Unless  I  ate  between  meals,  I'd  feel  as  if  I  were  starving. 
My  mouth  waters  when  I  remember  those  big,  fat  sand- 
wiches I  loved.  My  'Dag"woods'  used  to  have  fresh  bread 
generously  spread  with  golden  butter,  tender  slices 
of  tongue  boiled  to  a  perfection  of  pinkness,  a  layer  of 
tangy  cheese,  and  maybe  some  spicy,  homemade  pate!" 

When  Denise  was  graduated  from  high  school,  she 
enrolled  in  the  Cooper  Union  Art  School,  paying  ex- 
penses by  working  part-time  as  a  waitress  at  one  of 
the  Schrafft's  restaurants.  One  thing  she  remembers  is 
being  able  to  eat  all  the  cheese  bread  she  wanted.  "Do 
you  know  the  Schrafft  cheese  bread?"  she  asks.  "It's 
delicious  just  toasted."  Her  eyes  light  up.  "And  you  can 
spread  it  with  butter."  Her  blue  eyes  sparkle  with  an- 
other seventy  calories.  "Wonderful  with  sliced  tongue 
between  two  slices."  And  her  blue  eyes  fairly  explode 
with  the  thought  of  those  delicious  extra  calories. 

The  Schrafft's  at  which  Denise  worked  was  opposite 
the  Paramount  Theater,  and  show-business  executives 
who  came  there  for  lunch  tipped  very  well.  One  man 
ordered  an  orange  juice  every  morning  and  left  a  seven- 


ty-five-cent tip.  "I  was  just  out  of  high  school,"  Denise 
says,  "and  very  bashful.  The  first  time  someone  put 
down  a  tip  for  me,  I  left  it  because  I  was  ashamed  to  pick 
it  up.  One  of  the  girls  pushed  me  back  ^nd  said,  'Don't 
be  stupid,  honey.  Pick  it  up.  That's  what  it's  there  for.'  " 

Probably  that's  where  Denise  acquired  her  habit  of 
tipping  so  generously  today.  She  still  doesn't  know  how 
to  give  a  modest  tip.  On  her  opening  night  at  the  Plaza, 
as  one  bellboy  after  another  kept  delivering  flowers  to 
her  room,  she  said,  "I'll  go  broke  if  friends  send  me  any 
more  flowers!" 

Once  Denise  had  become  a   {Continued  on  page  86) 


Guillotine:  Pushing  feet  up  and  down- against  the  spring 
bar  loosens  the  vertebrae,  stretches  tight  back-muscles. 


They  Lead  Three  Lives 


Haila  Stoddard 
is  Mark  Holden 


is  Pauline  Harris  in  The  Secret  Storm,  Whitfield  Connor 
in  The  Guiding  Light.  Together — Mr.  and  Mrs.  is  the  name! 


By  JUDITH  FIELD 


According  to  all  the  rules,  Haila 
J\  Stoddard  and  Whitfield  Connor 
shouldn't  make  a  happily  married 
couple.  Their  temperaments  are  as 
different  as  night  and  day.  Their 
family  life  is  filled  with  complica- 
tions. Their  professional  lives  are 
filled  with  unusual  demands.  What's 
more,  they're  both  actors — well- 
known  to  television  viewers  as 
Pauline  Harris  in  The  Secret  Storm 
and  Mark  Holden  in  The  Guiding 
Light.  And  actors  are  popularly  sup- 
posed to  be  difficult  people  to  live 
with — especially  when  married  to 
each  other! 

So  Haila  and  Whit  should  have 
been  headed  for  problems  when  they 
got  married  in  March  of  1956.  In- 
stead, they  headed  for  solutions  and 
great  happiness,  and  they  know  the 
reasons. 

"We  complement  each  other,"  says 
Whit.  "Haila  loosens  me  up  and  I 
pull  her  back  from  a  certain  im- 
pulsiveness. (Continued  on  page  64) 


Haila  and  Whit  found  a  house  to  fit  their 
city  careers  and  still  offer  country  living  for 
Chris   and  two   other   growing   youngsters. 


1 


Family  life  for  T.J.,  Halla,  Chris,  Robin  and  Whit  is  compressed  info 
the'  weekends,  "Like  a  bouillon  cube,"  soys  Hailo,  who  spends  most 
of  her  Sunday  in  the  kitchen,  "traveling"  via  recipes.  The  result  is 
a 'Sunday  lunch  of  exotic  foods — and  just  plain  good  conversation  as 
the  grownups  compare  the  week's  doings  with  T.J.,  Chris  and  Robin. 


Sports,  whatever  the  season,  are 
a  bond  between  Whit  and  T.J.  and 
Chris.  Currently,  it's  fishing.  For 
Robin,  the  big  interest  is  fashion, 
with  lots  of  help  coming  from  Hoila. 


The  Secret  Storm  is  seen  on  CBS-TV,  M-F,  4:15  P.M.  EDT,  sponsored  by  Whitehall  Pharmacal  Co.,  and  Boyle-Midway,  Inc. 
The  Guiding  Light,  CBS-TV,  M-F,  12:45  P.M.  EDT,  is  sponsored  by  Procter  &  Gamble  for  Ivory,  Blue  Dot  Duz,  and  Cheer. 


31 


Once  headed  for  top  stardom  as  a  solo  dancer,  June 
now  teaches  others  the  art  which  she  loves  and  knows 
so  well.  And — thanks  to  a  "skinny  young  comic"  who  re- 
membered— June  Taylor  Dancers  bring  visual  delight 
to  millions  every  week  on  The  Jackie  Gleason  Show. 


TO  MY  DREAM 

Out  of  heartbreak  and 
disaster,  June  Taylor  created 
a  shining  pattern  of  beauty 
and  skill — and  courage 

By  WILL  F.  JENKINS 


MILLIONS  of  viewers  see  the  June  Tay- 
lor Dancers  on  The  Jackie  Gleason 
Show  every  Saturday  night  over  CBS-TV. 
They  are  the  most-watched  dancers  in 
the  world.  But  very  few  people  know  the 
dramatic  personal  story  of  which  they  are 
a  part.  They  are  very  pretty  girls.  They 
are  faultlessly  trained.  With  beautiful 
precision,  they  form  patterns  of  color  and 
graceful  motion  which  shift  and  break 
and  form  again.  But  they  are  only  one 
chapter  in  the  life  of  June  Taylor,  which 
is  more  dramatic  than  most  on-stage 
dramas — ^by  virtue  {Continued  on  page  84) 


When  she  needed  him  most,  Sol  Lerner  was  there.   Today,  he  Is 
June's  devoted  husband,  and  manager  of  her  Dancers  and  schools. 


The  June  Taylor  Dancers  are  starred  on  The  Jackie  Gleason 
Show,  as  seen  over  CBS-TV,  Saturdays,  from  8  to  9  P.M.  EDT,  co- 
sponsored  by  P.  Lorillard  Company  for  Old  Gold  Cigarettes. 


'."> 


0^- 


f*^ 


■-^':. 


KNEE  DEEP  in  SUCCESS 


i 


Three  loves  has  Guy.  His  lovely  Danish-born  bride,  Else: 
"Real  beauty,  real  girl!"  Horses:  When  not  riding  'em,  he's 
reading  about  'em.  Food:  "Else  does  the  cooking,  but  I  like  to 
fool  around  with  herbs  and  spices,  make  sauces  and  gravies." 


Guy  Mitchell  has  something  to  sing 
about— because  of  a  boy  named 
Al  Cernick,  a  girl  named  Else 


Fourth  love:  Always  singing — whether  hit  records 
for  Columbia,  or  folk  songs  from  the  Old  Country,  j 


By  GLADYS  HALL 

WHO  IS  Al  Cernick?  Well,  here  are  the  clues: 
Al  Cernick  is  a  strongly  built  yoimg  man, 
five-foot-nine,  one  hundred  and  seventy 
pounds,  legs  slightly  bowed  from  the  saddle.  His 
hair  is  a  light  tan.    His  eyes  are  gray-blue.    He  was 
■  born  in  Detroit,  Michigan,  on  February  27,  1927. 
When,  at  seventeen,  Al  was  appearing  on  the  KYA 
and  KGO  radio  programs  of  cowboy  singer  Dude 
Martin,  the  Dude  called  him  "the  singingest 
person  I  ever  did  meet."    Al  would  sing  on  his 
way  to  the  job,  Martin  recalls,  sing  all  night  on  the 
job,  and  then  sing  all  the  way  home. 

Al  Cernick  is  still  the  singingest  person  you.  ever 
did  meet.     Singing  is  in  his  blood.    His  fanuly 
is  of  European  background:  Croatians  (Al's  dad 
was  bom  in  Croatia)  who,  in  the  Old  Country, 
were  wine-makers  accustomed  to  singing  as  they 
work.    "They  sing  the  old  folk  songs,"  Al  says. 

Continued  k 


"'>t' 


i^ 


KNEE  DEEP  in  SUCCESS 


(Continued) 


Guy  Mitchell's  success  story  was  built  on  song — and 
lots  of  hard  work  in  night  clubs,  TV,  radio,  movies. 
But  nowadays,  whenever  there's  time  to  relax,  there's 
Else  to  keep  him  company,  bring  him  breakfast  in  bed. 


Wty^' '''  ■  «  ".'' 


"that  were  my  lullabies.  My  dad'll 
sing  just  about  what  he's  doing. 
'The  little  Mama,  help  the  little 
Mama  with  the  dishes,'  he'll  warble 
as  he  starts  washing  away.  At  wed- 
dings we'd  go  to,  you  could  hear  my 
dad  for  nules,  after  the  wine  began 
to  flow.  For  my  folks,  singing  is 
their  natural  element.  They  always 
sing  when  they  feel  good.  And,  when 
they  don't  feel  good,  they  sing  to 
make  themselves  feel  better. 

"So  do  I.  Sing  in  the  saddle.  (My 
first  real  love  is  cowboyin*.)  Sing  as 
I  walk  along  Broadway.  Sing  when 
my  pockets  are  empty.  Sing  when 
they're  full.  Sing  when  my  heart  is 
empty.  Sing  when  my  heart  is  full. 
Fvdl  to  overflowing,  as  it  is  now," 
says  Al  Cemick — ^best  known  today 
as  singing  star  Guy  Mitchell,  who  is 
the  hottest  thing  in  show  business, 
since  his  recording  of  "Singing  the 
Blues"  hit  the  jackpot,  "Now  every- 
thing has  jelled.  I  tell  you!  Domes- 
tic life.  Business  life.  Spiritual  life. 
Everything  is  just  great.  And  I  put 
my  domestic  happiness  first." 

Actually,  as  well  as  romantically, 
it  was  when  love  walked  into  his  life 
— in  the  golden-haired  person  of 
young  Danish-bom  Else  Sorenson — 
that  success,  as  well  as  happiness, 
turned  from  ebb  tide  to  full  tide  for 


Physical  fitness  means  a  lot  to  Guy's  busy  schedule. 
Until  they  get  that  dream  ranch,  complete  with  horses.  | 
Guy  settles  for  exercising  on  hotel-apartment  floors,  f 
while  Else  tunes  in  lively  rhythm  on  a  portable  radio. 


the  guy  who  was  renamed  Mitchell. 

"We  met,"  Guy  recalls,  "up  in 
Vancouver,  where  Else  was  work- 
ing in  a  bank,  and  I  in  a  night  club. 
She  came  into  the  club  with  some- 
body one  night — and  I  flipped!  Yes, 
ma'am,  on  sight.  You  can  say  an  in- 
ner quality  is  what  attracts.  And  it's 
true  that,  without  an  inner  quality, 
an  attraction  would  be  short-lived. 
But  the  physical  appearance  attracts 
first.  Else  is  beautiful,"  says  Else's 
bridegroom  of  some  eight  months. 
"Heal  beauty,  real  girl.  Natural 
blonde.  Nothing  padded  out,  noth- 
ing tied  in." 

These  soon-to-be  young  lovers 
didn't  meet  that  first  night,  however. 
There  was,  Guy  explains,  no  one  in 
the  club  to  introduce  them.  So  Else 
— ^unaware  that  she  could  have 
reached  out  and  touched  her  destiny 
— ^just  dined  and  danced  with  her 
current  date.  And  Guy  just  sang.  (It 
can  well  be  imagined  how  he  sang, 
with  his  heart  doing  nip-ups!) 

In  order  to  meet  her — or  even  to 
make  svae  he  was  going  to  see  her 
again — Guy  says  he  had  to  do  a  lot 
of  research.  Find  out  where  she 
lived,  where  she  worked,  find  some- 
one to  introduce  them.  When  he 
finally  found  the  someone  and  the 
introduction  (Continued  on  page  69) 


There's  another  portable  which  is  most  important  to 
Else.  Her  sewing  machine — she  makes  not  only  her  own 
clothes  but  Guy's  shirts.  He's  good  at  handiwork,  too, 
a  real  pro  at  hand-toolinq  leather  belts  and  saddles. 


This,  says  Guy,  is  "the  way  married  life  should  be." 
Whenever  there's  time,  they  get  on  their  boots  and  go 
riding.  "She  likes  anything  I  like,"  he  says  happily. 
It's  the  crowning  touch  for  a  singing  saga  of  success. 


FV' 


1 


CLOSE  TO  EACH  OTHER 


Last  summer,  Melba  and  Gil  Shawn 
honeymooned  at  Long  Island  cottage. 


Today,  they  plan  a  larger  home — 
to  house  "two  sets  of  everything.' 


The  two  have  many  treasures.  Most 
cherished  are  Gil's  own   paintings. 


Melba  Rae  discovered  the  answer 
to  her  own  "search  for  tomorrow" 
was  hving  just  a  block  away! 

By  MARTIN  COHEN 


SOMETIMES,  romance  is  so  near  that  you  could  reach 
right  out  and  touch  it — if  you  only  knew  it  was  there. 
At  least,  that's  how  it  was  with  Melba  Rae  and  her  husband, 
Gil  Shawn.  Looking  at  them  now,  it's  easy  to  see  why 
they  belong  together.  But  it  took  time  for  them  to  find 
that  out  for  themselves. 

Melba,  who's  Marge  Bergman  in  Search  For  Tomorrow 
on  CBS-TV,  is  charming  and  fair,  with  bright  auburn 
hair  and  exotic  blue  eyes.     Gil,   (Continued  on  page  76) 

Melba  is  Marge  in  Search  For  Tomorrow,  CBS-TV,  M-F,  12:30  P.M. 
EDT,  sponsored  by  Procter  &  Gamble  for  Joy,  Spic  and  Span,  Gleem. 


Both  have  traveled  in  the  East  and  like  Oriental  customs. 
They  find  Japanese   "Happi"   coats  comfortable  to  wear. 


Doing  portrait  of  Melba,  Gil  had  trouble  "catching"   her 
mouth.  "Maybe,"  she  laughs,  "because  we  talked  so  much!" 


J^ 


■iSj^. 


/-■.^t:  y'i 


¥'.l>^^"-'> 


TENNESSEE'S  ERNIE 

Ernest  Ford  draws  strength  from  his  home  town,  from  the  goodness  and  warmth  of  Bristol 


Ernie,  wife  Betty,  sons  Brion  and  Buck,  and  grandmother, 
Mrs.  Nancy  Long,  sit  in  the  living  room  which  Ralph  Edwards 
(above  and  lower  right)  had  transplanted  from  Tennessee  for 
This  Is  Your  Life.  In  rear  row,  childhood  sweetheart  Mary 
Bray  Smiley,  father  Clarence  and  mother  Maude  Ford,  Sunday 
School  teacher  Nan  McQuillan,  TV  boss  Cliffie  Stone,  Peter 
Ausden  (Ernie's  top  fan  from  England),  and  Charles  Dermott 
(his  former  buddy  at  Carlsbad  Army  Air  Field,  New  Mexico). 

By  MAXINE  ARNOLD 

MAIN  Street  in  Tennessee  Ernie  Ford's  home  town  has 
its  own  marquee.  Over  the  street  there's  a  big  archway 
that  proclaims:  "Bristol  Va-Tenn  ...  A  Good  Place  to  Live." 
The  state  line  dividing  Tennessee  and  Virginia  runs  right 
down  the  middle  of  Main  Street,  and  at  night  the  sign  blazes 
with  lights,  proudly  proclaiming  its  message  to  both  sides. 

One  night,  not  long  ago,  Bristol  had  more  reason  than 
ever  to  tell  the  world  that  here  was  a  good  place  to  live.  That 
night,  you  could  have  fired  a  Confederate  cannon  down  the 
middle  of  the  street  and  not  hit  a  citizen  in  either  state. 
On  both  sides  of  the  line,  phones  were  ringing.   The  word 


See  Next  Page  ^ 


Pride  of  an    I  1 -year-old  heart:   Big 
trombone — and  big  "B"  for  Bristol. 


Ernest  in  high  school — and  earnest 
he  was,  with  first  faint  moustache! 


More  moustache,   more  dignity,   in 
1942,  with   U.  S.  Army  Air  Corps. 


By    1950,    Ernie   was   finding    his    niche,    out    in    California, 

joining  the  broadcast  shenanigans  with  hierman  the  Hermit, 

-Cliffie  Stone  (center).  Merle  Travis  and  Eddie   Kirk  (right). 


Today — the  big   Ford  shows,   as  seen  over  NBC-TV,   bring 
Tennessee's  Ernie  to  the  nation,  for  all  America  to  claim. 


Nothing  sleepy  about  Ernie  in  1 95 J,  despite  siesta 
pose  with  Kirk  in  Cliffie  Stone's  Hometown  Jamboree 
on  KTLA.  Ernie  had  "discovered"  TV — and  vice  versa. 


TENNESSEE'S  ERNIE 

{Continued) 

was  spreading.  And  television  dials  were  turn- 
ing ...  to  Ralph  Edwards — and  to  Clarence 
Ford's  boy,  Ernest — out  in  California. 

Clarence  Ford  had  worked  for  the  post  office, 
Tennessee-side,  thirty-four  years.  And  many  of 
those  watching  had  known  Ernest  Ford  long 
before  he  started  picking  peas  in  Hollywood. 
Since  he  was  knee-high  to  either  a  Virginia  or 
a  Tennessee  grasshopper,  you  might  say.  And 
tonight — this  was  Ernest  Ford's  life! 

There  on  the  TV  screens,  on  Ralph  Edwards' 
This  Is  Your  Life,  Ernie's  first  Sunday  School 
teacher,  his  first  girl,  his  folks — Clarence  and 
Maude    Ford — ^were     (Continued    on    page   80) 

The  Ford  Show,  starring  Tennessee  Ernie  Ford,  is  seen 
on  NBC-TV,  each  Thursday,  from  9:30  to  10  P.M.  EDT, 
under  the  sponsorship  of  the  Ford  Dealers  of  America. 
The  Tennessee  Ernie  Ford  Show  is  seen  over  NBC-TV, 
M-F,  from  2:30  to  3  P.M.  EDT,  under  multiple  sponsorship. 


42 


Success  has  meant  his  own  private  pool,  where  he  can  teach  Buck  and  Brion  to  swim — as  well  as  the 
cozy  home  he  and  Betty  always  dreamed  about.  He's  finally  got  his  farm,  too,  in  northern  California, 
likes  to  help  build  it  up  himself — but  "success"  also  means  Ernie  doesn't  have  much  time  to  be  there! 


^^^^^H^^^^^^^^^^^n^^^^^^^^^       ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^H 

k.  a 

^^^^B      ^pj^^^^^H^^^^^^^^^^'^^l 

Teenager  Tommy  "rocks"  his  contemporaries,  and  some  of  the  older  folks, 
too.  He  was  born  in  the  city,  but  his  heart's  always  belonged  to  the  country 
and  its  music.  On  Ernie  Ford's  nigfit-time  show,  he  found  a  kindred  soul. 


Tommy 
Sands 


NEW  SINGIN'  IDOL 


"Lonely,"  says  Tommy  Sands.  And 
the  girl  he's  looJcing  for,  "all  the 
time,"  sounds  very  like  the  girl-back- 
home  that  Jane  McArthur  played  op- 
posite him  when  he  had  the  title  role 
in  Krajt  Theater's  "The  Singin'  Idol." 


By  GREGORY  MERWIN 


MEET  Tommy  Sands:  Weight,  150; 
height,  5  feet  10  inches;  hair 
and   eyes,  black;   birthplace, 
Chicago,  Illinois,  August  27,  1937; 
profession,  singer  and  actor;  favorite 
sport,  boxing;  hobby,  song-writing; 
romantic  interests,  none;  condition, 
lonely. 

"I  don't  make  friends  fast  and  I 
guess  it's  because  I'm  bashfiJ.  People 
sometimes  think  I'm  stuck  up  but 
I'm  really  bashful.   I'll  go  out  with 
a  girl  and  she'll  think  I  don't  care 
about  her   {Continued  on  page  62) 

Tommy  Sands  is  a  frequent  guest  on  the 
Ernie  Ford  shows    (see  preceding  story). 


Off  to  a  fast  start,  at  eight,  as  a  singer  on  radio.    Now — at 
19 — ^zooming  like  a  roclcet!  .  .  .  Here's  how  it  all  happened 


45 


AS  THE  WORLD  TURNS 


Now  convinced  her  marriage  has  always  been  a  failure,  Claire  Lowell 
shocks  her  friends,  Chris  and  Nancy  hHughes,  with  her  decision  to  nriake 
a  final  break  with  her  husband.  Divorce  would  be  quite  a  blow  to  Jim's 
father.  Judge  Lowell,  who's  convalescing  from  a  recent  serious  illness. 


^ 


Two  teenagers  grope  towan 
an  uncertain  future  complicated 
by  the  emotional  problems  of 
those  grown-ups  closest  to  them 


•T^EENS  are  a  time  of  budding  hope — and 
sudden  dread.  Of  emotional  turmoil, 
as  teenagers  face  problems  peculiai'ly 
their  own,  as  well  as  problems  of  adults 
around  them,  in  a  world  far  more  com- 
plicated than  they'd  ever  dreamed. 

For  Penny  Hughes  and  Ellen  Lowell, 
growing  up  is  proving  particularly  pain- 
ful. Shocked  and  resentful,  they  ask 
themselves:  If  our  parents  expect  us  to 
be  responsible  individuals,  why  don't  they 
treat  us  as  responsible  individuals?  Why 
have  they  lied  to  us,  kept  from  us  the 
very  knowledge  we  need  most,  to  be  effec- 
tive members  of  the  family? 

Why,  Ellen  wonders,  didn't  Mother  tell 
me  that  Edith  Hughes  was  "the  other 
woman"  threatening  our  happiness?  Why, 
Penny  wonder$,  didn't  Aunt  Edie  tell  me 
she  was  in  love  with  Ellien's  father?  Penny 
had  always  thought  her  aunt  was  perfec- 
tion personified,  EUen  had  been  devoted 
to  her  dad.  Now,  both  have  turned  against 
their  idols.  And  both  feel ,  rejected  by 
their  parents. 

Ever  since  her  sister  Susan  died,  three 
years  ago.  Penny  has  been  heartsick  with 
the  belief  that  her  mother  doesn't  love 


46 


her  as  she  loved  Susan.  To  her,  the  fact 
that  Nancy  and  Chris  Hughes  didn't  take 
her  into  their  confidence  about  Aunt  Edie 
only  proves  how  little  they  honestly  con- 
sider Penny  as  a  person.  Ellen  is  equally 
sure  that,  if  Jim  and  Claire  Lowell  really 
loved  her,  they  couldn't  even  contem- 
plate breaking  up  their  home,  no  matter 
what  has  happened. 

It  doesn't,  of  course,  occur  to  either  be- 
wildered teenager  that  she's  falling  into 
the  same  error  of  which  she  accuses  her 
elders — that  she  isn't  considering  them  as 
individuals  who  must  make  their  own 
decisions.  How  could  Ellen  realize  that . 
her  mother  no  longer  even  thinks  of  Edith 
but  is  convinced  her  marriage  was  doomed 
from  the  start  because  she  and  Jim  were 
never  really  in  love?  How  could  Penny 
plumb  the  deep  hurt  which  is  driving 
Edith  to  leave  Oakdale  and  seek  a  new 
life  in  California? 

Drawn  together  by  thdir  mutual  loneli- 
ness, Penny  and  Ellen  are  determined  to 
seek  solutions  for  their  own  lives  without 
making  the  same  mistakes  older  people 
have  made.  But  in  quite  different  ways. 
For  Penny,  the  answer  seems  to  lie  in  an 
early  marriage,  so  that  she'll  never,  never 
be  a  trouble-making  "old  maid"  like  Aimt 
Edie.  For  Ellen,  marriage  seems  out  of 
':  the  question  for  ever  and  ever,  now  that 
I  she's  seen  what  can  happen  in  a  home 

she'd  always  believed  so  secure. 
I  Like  Claire  and  Edith  of  the  older  gen- 
f  eration,  Ellen  and  Penny  are  quite  sure 
their  minds  are  made  up.  But  the  future, 
as  always,  holds  its  own  surprises  for 
everyone,  and  nothing  is  ever  so  certain 
as  it  seems.  What  will  this  very  summer 
bring,  to  change  the  lives  of  all  the 
Hugheses  and  Lowells,  as  the  world  turns? 


Partners  in  law,  Chris  worked  hard  for  a  legal  career,  Jim 
only  followed  his  father's  wishes.  But  Jim  and  Claire  have 
found  new  maturity  since  his  infatuation  for  Chris's  sister 
Edith.  He  asks  Claire  frankly  and  calmly  if  she  has  thought 
what  their  separation  could  mean  for  their  daughter  Ellen. 


Teenager  Penny,  daughter  of  Chris  and  Nancy,  has  problems 
of  her  own,  but  finds  it  easy  to  say  "no"  to  Jeff  Baker's 
request  for  a  date.  She  dreams  of  marriage — but  not  to  Jeff. 


See  Next  Page  m 


AS  THE  WORLD  TURNS 

(Continued) 

And  here's  the  story  behind  the  story — the  people  behind  those  wonderful  characters 


*l|aN  MacLaughlin  (Chris  Hughes) 
■^^  has  a  wonderful  family  in  pri- 
vate life,  too.  For  their  sake,  he 
commutes  to  and  from  a  quiet, 
steepled  town  in  Vermont,  where 
wife  Mary  keeps  busy  with  an  an- 
tique shop;,  now  that  their  children 
are  growing  up.  Daughter  Janet  is 
away  at  boarding  school,  older  son 
Douglas  has  been  studying  at  Am- 


herst, and  only  yoimger  son  Brit- 
ton — on  the  brink  of  teen-age — ^is  at 
home  all  week.  But  what  weekends 
the  family  has  together!  Down  in 
New  York,  Don  is  one  of  broadcast- 
ing's busiest  performers,  not  only 
on  TV's  As  The  World  Turns,  but 
as  star  of  radio's  The  Road  Of  Life 
and  Counterspy.  Born  a  doctor's 
son,  in  Webster,  Iowa,  he  attended 


Edith's  (and   Chris's)  father  doubts  the  wisdom   of  her  decision,  to   leave 
Oqkdale.  Will  she  solve  anything,  "Pa"  Hughes  asks,  just  by  running  avyay? 


colleges  from  his  home  state  to 
Arizona,  worked  on  everything  from 
miniature -golf  courses  to  the  decks' 
of  a  Singapore-bound  freighter,  be- 
fore finding  his  niche  as  an  actor. 
.  .  .  Helen  Wagner  (Chris's  wife, 
Nancy)  also  boasts  a  doctor  father. 
Born  in  Lubbock,  Texas,  Helen 
seemed  destined  for  a  musical  career 
— at  the  time  of  her  graduation  from 
high  school,  she  gave  a  recital  in 
which  she  sang,  played  the  organ, 
piano  and  violin!  She  earned  de- 
grees in  both  arts  and  music  at 
Monmouth  College,  Illinois,  contin- 
ued voice  and  piano  lessons  in  New 
York  City.  She's  sung  and  acted 
both  on  Broadway  and  on  tour,  bol- 
stering her  budding  theatrical  career 
with  such  jobs  as  selling  doUs  at 
Macy's  and  modeling  wrist  watches 
for  commercials.  Now  well  estab- 
lished in  both  daytime  and  night- 
time drama  on  TV,  she's  married  to 
Robert  WiUey,  Broadway  producer. 
...  Rosemary  Prinz  (daughter  Penny 
Hughes)  is  getting  younger  all  the 
time.  Youthful  and  vivacious  today, 
in  her  mid-twenties,  she  played 
much  older  roles  in  her  mid-teens — 
such  as  the  King's  mistress  in  the 
touring  company  of  "Joan  of  Lor- 
raine." Versatility's  always  been 
her  middle  name,  with  a  wide 
variety "  of  parts  on  Broadway,  in 
summer  stock,  TV  playhouses,  and 
radio  daytime  drama.  A  native  New 
Yorker,  she's  a  graduate  of  near-by 
Forest  HiUs  High  School.  With 
her  husband,  Michael  Thoma — actor 
and  stage  manager  connected  with 
Broadway's  "No  Time  for  Ser- 
geants"— she's  the  proud  possessor 
of  a  new  ranch  house  in  the  Ramapo 
foothiUs,  not  too  far  from  Manhat- 
tan. .  .  .  Santos  Ortega  ("Grandpa". 
Hughes)  has  had  so  much  success 
with  varied  dialects  that  it  was  some 
time  before  producers  and  audiences 
discovered  he  speaks  fluent,  xmac- 
cented  Enghsh!  Actually,  Santos 
was  bom  in  New  York  City  and 
had  to  learn  Spanish  inflections — as 
well  as  vocabulary — ^for  his  first 
broadcasting  assignment.  His  many 
roles  have  ranged  from  detectives 
(Charhe  Chan,  Nero  Wolfe,  Perry 
Mason)  to  doctors  (in  Big  Sister 
and  City  Hospital) .  His  mother,  in- 
cidentally, was  Irish — ^and  he  was. 
studying    to    become    a    Christian 


Reacting  against  the  drama  in  grown-up  lives  around  them,  Ellen  Lowell  and  Penny  Hughes 
make  their  own  teen-age  plans  together.  But — will  fate  have  quite  different  plans  in  store? 


Brother  before  show  business  beck- 
oned. .  .  .  Ruth  Warrick  (Chris's 
sister  Edith)  is  one  beauty  queen 
who  has  definitely  proved  outstand- 
ing dramatic  ability.  Born  in  St. 
Joseph,  Missouri,  she  later  moved 
with  her  family  to  Kansas  City, 
where  she  was  chosen  "Miss  Jubi- 
lesta."  Part  of  her  prize  was  a  trip 
to  New  York,  where  she  subse- 
quently had  a  modest  success  on 
stage  and  radio.  It  was  Orson  Welles 
who  gave  her  her  first  big  break,  in 
his  pioneer  movie,  "Citizen  Kane." 
Ruth  made  many  pictures  in  Holly- 
wood, but  has  been  happiest  in  New 
York  TV.  At  home,  she's  Mrs.  Bob 
McNamara  and  part  of  a  real  "Mc- 
Namara's  Band" — with  teen-aged 
daughter  Karen  and  son  Jon  on 
clarinet  and  tirombone,  and  baby 
Timothy  taking  a  whack  at  the 
drums.  .  .  .  Les  Damon  (Jim  Lowell) 
has  one  of  the  most  distinguished 
names  in  radio,  is  becoming  equally 
popular  in  TV.  A  native  of  Provi- 
dence, Rhode  Island,  he  attended 
Brovoi  University,  got  his  profes- 
sional start  with  the  Albee  Stock 
Company.  Before  tackling  Broad- 
way, he  had  a  season  with  the  famed 
Old  Vic  Theater  in  London.  Per- 
haps best  known  in  radio  as  Nick 
Charles  in  the  long-run  Thin  Man 
adventures,  he's  also  had  key  roles 
in  such  daytime  dramas  as  This  Is 


Nora  Drake.  His  wife,  Gingr  Jones, 
was  equally  well  known  in  broad- 
casting circles  before  retiring  to 
their  charming  hilltop  home  in  New 
Jersey  to  care  for  Lisa  Judith,  born 
just  last  fall.  .  .  .  Anne  Burr  (Jim's 
wife,  Claire)  is  a  proper  Bostonian 
who  was  educated  in  England,  Con- 
necticut, and  Virginia.  At  Sweet 
Briar  College,  in  the  latter  state,  she 
thought  of  devoting  herself  to  a 
medical  career — but  the  lure  of  the 
footlights  was  too  strong.  She  has 
had  a  brilliant  career  on  Broad- 
way, with  such  notables  as  Orson 
Welles  and  Katharine  Cornell,  and 
some  very  popular  roles  on  radio — 
notably.  Big  Sister.  Married  to  TV 
executive  Tom  McDermott,  she 
spends  her  spare  tiine  recording 
"talking  books"  for  the  blind,  work- 
ing needlepoint  on  set,  gardening, 
taking  pictures — and  "inventing 
edible  low-calorie  recipes."  .  .  . 
Wendy  Drew  (daughter  Ellen 
Lowell)  has  had  the  distinction  of 
playing  Young  Widder  Brown  on 
radio  before  facing  TV  cameras  as 
the  teenager  she  actually  looks!  But 
there's  never  been  any  doubt  about 
the  versatility  of  Wendy,  who  was 
born  in  Brooklyn,  taken  to  Texas  at 
four,  and  schooled  in  Florida.  That's 
where  she  started  acting,  a  study 
which  she  continued  at  Pasadena 
Playhouse   in  California  when  her 


family  made  still  another  move. 
Busy  in  TV,  radio  and  summer 
stock,  Wendy  lives  in  a  Manhattan 
apartment  with  her  sister,  AUegra 
Kent — a  soloist  with  the  New  York 
City  Ballet — and  lists  her  hobbies  as 
"sea,  sun,  sailing,  reading."  .  .  .  Wil- 
liam Johnstone  (Jim's  father.  Judge 
Lowell)  can  boast  a  career  which  is 
a  living  history  of  modern  show 
business.  His  stage  successes  began 
in  1925,  with  the  Theater  Guild's 
"Caesar  and  Cleopatra."  Radio  roles 
date  from  1931— The  March  Of  Time, 
Cavalcade  Of  America,  The  Shadow 
— "you  name  it  and  I've  played  it!" 
Movies  claimed  him  in  1942  and, 
after  a  wartime  stint  in  the  Army, 
TV  welcomed  him  to  its  ranks  in 
1946,  via  the  Bob  Hope  shows  and 
Dragnet.  Now  back  in  New  York, 
he's  been  busy  on  the  top  television 
playhouses,  as  well  as  being  heard 
on  radio's  Pepper  Young's  Family. 
.  .  .  Mark  Rydell  (Jeff  Baker)  is  an 
accomplished  pianist,  conductor  and 
arranger  now  perfecting  his  talents 
at  the  JuiUiard,  after  studying  in 
Chicago  and  playing  with  orchestras 
both  East  and  Midwest  Meanwhile, 
of  course,  he's  studied  acting  and 
has  strong  aspirations  toward  being 
a  director.  Mark  lives  in  New  York, 
reads  "everything" — with  special 
emphasis  on  the  works  of  Thomas 
Wolfe  of  which  he  does  adaptations. 


As  The  World  Turns  is  seen  on  CBS-TV,  M-F,  1 :30  to  2  P.M.  EDT,  as  sponsored  by  Procter  &  Gamble  for  Ivory  Snow,  Oxydol,  Camay,  and  Comet. 


49 


THE 


WE 
NEED 

By  DIANE  ISOLA 


As  THE  petite  young  bninette  hur- 
riedly entered  the  Manhattan 
apartment  house,  one  afternoon,  she 
was  stopped  abruptly  by  a  middle- 
aged  woman  who  said  accusingly, 
"You're  Leila  Martin,  the  Diane  Em- 
erson of  Valiant  Lady  I  Well,  I  want 
to  teU  you,  you  ought  to  be  ashamed 
of  yourself,  the  way  you're  treating 
your  mother!  Now,  because  of  you, 
she  probably  won't  marry  the  gover- 
nor. Do  you  think  that's  nice?"  she 
finished  with  a  glare. 

Leila  turned  to  the  woman  with  xai- 
derstanding.  "I  know  how  you  feel," 
she  sympathized.  "Diane  sure  is  caus- 
ing a  lot  of  trouble  to  everyone — and 


Leila  finds  joy  in  Juliet.  But  Helen  Emerson 


\. 


In  her  own  marriage  and  motherhood, 

Leila  Martin  finds  the  answer 

Diane  Emerson  seeks  in  Valiant  Lady 


50 


Off   to    a    happy    day,    little   Juliet      With    nurse    Nolo     Earley,    Juliet    sees      Husband  Leonard  Green  is  an  admiring 
and  Leila  hove  breakfast  together,      mama  on  TV.  But  tragedy  is  "censored."      viewer,  too — except  for  "stage  kisses." 


mostly  to  herself.  But  don't  you  see, 
Diane  is  not  doing  all  this  intention- 
ally. She  means  well.  It's  simply  that 
she  has  a  knack  for  getting  into  wrong 
situations,  and  doesn't  know  how  to 
handle  them.  She's  just  immature." 

The  older  woman's  sense  of  outrage 
turned  to  embarrassment.  Abruptly, 
she  realized  that  she  was  talking  to 
Leila  Martin,  rather  than  Diane  Em- 
erson. This  young  lady's  face  and 
voice  were  filled  with  a  quiet  warmth 
arid  ti-anquility.  She  was  not,  in  her 
own  life,  the  neurotic  star-crossed 
daughter  of  Helen  Emerson. 

"Please  forgive  me,"  she  apologized. 
"I  didn't  mean  (Continued  on  page  66) 


ora  Campbell)  finds  heartache  in  "Diane." 


Marriages  shouldn't  have  to  conform  to  careers,  says  Leonard*  It's 
vice  versa  for  the  Greens,  leaving  lots  of  time  to  share  v/ith  Juliet. 


Leila  is  Diane  Emerson  in  Valiant  Lady,  on  CBS-TV,  M-F,  12 
noon  EDT,  sponsored  by  General  Mills,  Wesson  Oil,  The  Toni 
Co.,  Nestle  Co.,  Chase  &  Sanborn,  and  Blue  Bonnet  Margarine. 


51 


1 


In  her  own  marriage  and  motherhood/ 

Leila  Martin  finds  the  answer 

Diane  Emerson  seeks  in  Valiant  Lady 


THE 


NA/E 
NEED 

By  DIANE  ISOLA 


As  THE  petite  young  brunette  hur- 
riedly entered  the  Manhattan 
apartment  house,  one  afternoon,  she 
was  stopped  abruptly  by  a  middle- 
aged  woman  who  said  accusingly, 
"You're  Leila  Martin,  the  Diane  Em- 
erson of  Valiant  Lady\  WeU,  I  want 
to  tell  you,  you  ought  to  be  ashamed 
of  yourself,  the  way  you're  treating 
your  mother!  Now,  because  of  you, 
she  probably  won't  marry  the  gover- 
nor. Do  you  think  that's  nice?"  she 
finished  with  a  glare. 

Leila  turned  to  the  woman  with  un- 
derstanding. "I  know  how  you  feel," 
she  sympathized.  "Diane  sure  is  caus- 
ing a  lot  of  trouble  to  everyone — and 


Leila  finds  joy  in  Juliet.  But  Helen  Emerson 


Off  to  o    happy  day,    little  Juliet 
and  Leila  have  breakfast  together. 


With    nurse     Nolo     Earley. 
manna  on  TV.  But  tragedy  is 


Juliet    sees 
'censored." 


Husband  Leonard  Green  is  an  admiring 
viewer,  too — except  for  "stage  kisses." 


mostly  to  herself.  But  don't  you  see, 
Diane  is  not  doing  all  this  intention- 
ally. She  means  well.  It's  simply  that 
she  has  a  knack  for  getting  into  wrong 
situations,  and  doesn't  know  how  to 
handle  them.  She's  just  immature." 

The  older  woman's  sense  of  outrage 
turned  to  embarrassment.  Abruptly, 
she  realized  that  she  was  talking  to 
Leila  Martin,  rather  than  Diane  Em- 
erson. This  young  lady's  face  and 
voice  were  filled  with  a  quiet  warmth 
and  tranquility.  She  was  not,  in  her 
own  life,  the  neurotic  star-crossed 
daughter  of  Helen  Emerson. 

"Please  forgive  me,"  she  apologized. 
"I  didn't  mean  (Continued  on  page  66) 


50 


Marriages  shouldn't  have  to  conform  to  coreefs,  says  Leonards  It's 
vice  versa  for  the  Greens,  leaving  lots  of  time  to  share  with  Juliet. 


Leila  is  Diane  Emerson  in  Valiant  Lady,  on  CBS-TV,  M-F,  12 
noon  EDT,  sponsored  by  General  Mills,  Wesson  Oil,  The  Toni 
Co.,  Nestle  Co.,  Chase  &  Sanborn,  and  Blue  Bonnet  Margarine. 


He's  Skip  in  The  Right  To  Happiness,  she's  Shari  In  The  Romance  Of  Helen 
Trent.  But  they  met  in  a  fairy  tale  and,  to  each  other,  Peter  Fernandez  and 
Marian  Russell  will  always  be  the  Prince  and  Princess.  Present  loyal  subjects  in- 
clude the  birds,  tonne  Morpie  and  wild  George,  ond  Winky,  the  "adopted"  dog. 


By  MARY  TEMPLE 

EVERYONE  has  a  right  to  a  share  of 
happiness,  affirms  the  title  of  the 
CBS  Radio  program,  The  Right 
To  Happiness,  and  most  of  us  will 
agree.  Peter  Fernandez,  who  is  teen- 
ager Skip  Nelson  on  the  dramatic 
series,  certainly  does. 

Peter — who  is  twenty- eight,  not  so 
tall,  but  quite  good-looking,  witK 
dark  hair  and  eyes,  a  quizzical  smile, 
inquisitive  mind  and  quick  wit  (a 
happy  mingling  of  his  Cuban- Irish- 
French  ancestry) — is  happily  married. 
To  Marian  Russell,  the  girl  he  met 
when  she  played  the  Princess  and  he 
the  Prince  in  a  filmed  TV  series  of 
fairy  tales.  After  a  romantic  story- 
book elopement.  Living  happily  ever 
after,  the  "ever  after"  now  running 
into  its  seventh  year  and  stretching 
out  into  infinity,  they're  sure. 

He's  happy  in  his  work,  too.  As 
Skip,  the  boy  on  radio,  Peter  is  an 
average  teenager  with  average  teen- 
age problems — except  when  grown- 
ups involve  him  in  theirs. 

"Like  most  kids,  Skip  sometimes 
becomes  a  sounding-board  for  adult 
problems,"  Peter  explains.  "I  am  often 
the  sounding-board  for  my  mother, 
Carolyn  Nelson.  SJbe  is  played  by 
Claudia  Morgan,  who  is  just  the 
greatest!  Like  (Continued  on  page  74) 


52 


One  day,  he  put  the  ring  on  her  finger.  Next  day,  they  eloped.  The  love  story 
of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Peter  Fernandez  .  .  .  who  have  proved  their  Right  To  Happiness 


Peter  has  a  special  flair  for  writing  and  has 
sold  a  number  of  adventure  stories.  Marian's  a 
talented  artist  and  composes  music,  too.  Both 
— believe-it-or-not — are    good    "business    men"! 


Peter  Fernandez  is  Skip  Nelson  in  The  Right  To  Happi- 
ness, CBS  Radio,  M-F,  at  2  P.M.  EDT.  Marian  Russell  is 
Shari  Bonine  in  The  Romance  Of  Helen  Trent,  CBS  Radio, 
M-F,  12:30  P.M.  EDT.  (Both  under  multiple  sponsorship) 


Tanks  of  fish  vie  with  Marple  and  Winky  for  Peter's  and  Marian's 
attention.  Someday,  they  expect  to  own  a  house  in  the  country  with 
plenty  of  space,  not  just  for  their  petS,  but  for  the  children  they 
hope  to  have.    "A  girl,  and  a  boy,  in  that  order,"  Marian  specifies. 


Next  to  each  menu  and  nnatchbook  in  the  memory  book  Patsy's  kept  of 
all  her  dates  is  a  comment — what  she  ate  or  thought,  what  he  said. 


■ 

PATSY  O'SHEA" 

Her  Career 


PRETTY  little  Patsy  O'Shea  toddled 
off  to  dancing  school — as  most  little 
girls  do.    That's  where  the  similarity 
ends.  One  day,  Patsy's  mother  was  told 
Warner  Bros,  was  looking  for  someone 
just  like  Patsy  for  a  short  to  be  made 
in  New  York.    Lucille  O'Shea  laughed. 
Her  husband  was  in  banking,  and 
no  one  in  either  family  had  ever  been 
in  show  business.   Still,  she  took  Patsy  to 
the  audition,  "just  for  laughs" — and 
Patsy  was  signed  to  a  contract  and  a 
career.   But  Patsy  was  no  "stage  brat," 
and  Lucille  was  no  "stage  mother." 
Though  she  still  accompanies  Patsy  as  her 
personal  business  manager,  she  stays 
in  the  background,  has  kept  Patsy 
dependable,  punctual,  and  as  natural  as 
her  red  hair.  Now  grown  to  five-foot-one, 
Patsy's  saving  for  Daddy's  dream:  A 
house  in  the  country.  To  her,  show 
business  is  glamorous,  but  a  business. 
And  she  is  really  "in  business,"  with 
appearances  on  radio  and  TV  daytime  and 
night-time  shows,  the  part  of  Louise  on 
By  The  People  over  Mutual,  the  role  of 
Agnes  on  Our  Gal  Sunday  over  CBS — 
and  an  offstage  whisper  of  romance. 

Patsy's  often  heard  over  ABC  Radio,  on  My  True 
Story,  10  AM.— When  A  Girl  Marries,  10:30  A.M. 
—Whispering  Streets,  10:45  A.M.  (All  EDT,M-F) 


Debut  was  in  a  Warner  Bros,  short. 
"I  never  played  a  shy  girl,"  says 
Patsy,  "because  I  never  was  one." 


Her  telecast  as  Little  Miss 
RCA  at  the  World's  Fair,  with 
Kukia  and  OIlie,  was  o   "first." 


At  the  Stage  Door  Canteen,  Patsy  served 
coffee,  wished  she  were  of  age  to  drink 
it.    "Now    I    still   drink    milk,"    she   laughs. 


.54 


lt*s  a  level  red-head  that  topped 
pretty  Patsy  O'Shea  as  she  trouped  her 
way  from  moppet  to  miss 


Quick  to   memorize,    Patsy  studies   scripts   at   home   in 
her  favorite  costume — jeans  and  a  man-tailored  shirt. 


Mom  gets  dinner  as   Patsy  gets  on   phone — for  hours 
"We  have  chairs,"  she  grins,   "but  the  carpet's  soft.' 


Patsy  plays  with  Donald  Bulca  and  Larry  Robinson  on  When  A 
Girl  Marries.  Versatile,  her  voice  ranges  from  babies  on  up! 


It  was  "the  awkward  age"  for  most  girls,  but  not  Patsy. 
She  was  on  Broadway  with  Judith  Evelyn,  Victor  Jory, 
le   Sunshine,    Paul    Porter,   Jr.   in    "Bill   Comes    Back." 


jLy 


By  staying  on  the  honor  roll.  Patsy  got  time-off  from  school 
for  such  programs  as  Listening  Post.  Above,  Paul  Luther,  Ethel 
Owen,  Rene  Terry,  Betty  Betz,  Ben  Cooper,  Patsy,  Edwin  Bruce. 


55 


Beouty  "secrets"  for  Dorothy  Collins — 

light  make-up,  a  fresh,  clean  look,  and  (below) 

a  taste  for  delicate,  flowery  perfumes. 


Below,  breakfast  in  front  of  the  bedroom 
fireplace,  as  beautifully  groomed  for 
husband  Raymond  Scott  as  for  TV  cameras. 


56 


11 


•  0  0 


Dorothy  Collins  mctkes  the  most 

of  her  special  type  of  heauty 

By  HARRIET  SEGMAN 


THE  SWEET,  smiling  radio-TV  star  who  has 
been  singing  her  way  into  American  hearts 
since  1950  looks  fragile  and  innocent  as 
a  lace-paper  doily.  Yet,  when  it  comes  to 
the  ways  and  wiles  of  being  a  woman,  Dorothy 
Collins  has  mastered  the  secret  of  feminine 
beauty.    Her  dimples  show  as  she  svuns  it  up 
with  the  words,  "Be  yourself."  Dorothy's  own 
"self"  is  a  gentle,  natural,  flower-garden 
personality.    She  emphasizes  this  with  bath 
salts  and  perfume  in  light,  delicate  scents.    "I 
like  to  smell  fresh  and  clean,"  she  says,  "not 
mysterious  and  heavy."   Her  favorite  is  one 
of  the  world's  most  famous  rose  perfumes. 
She  keeps  her  blond  hair  fair  with  shampoos 
twice  a  week,  wears  pale  pink  lipstick  by  day  and 
red-blue    (but  not  purple)    under  evening 
lights.  Pink  and  white  are  tops  in  her  wardrobe, 
with  small-scale  jewelry  of  gold  and  seed 
pearls.   She  avoids  a  too-sweet  look  by  selecting 
simple,  tailored  outfits,  such  as  the  dress- 
and-cbat    and    blouse-and-skirt    costvmies    of 
designer  Vera  Maxwell.  She  owns  one  black 
dress  for   formal   occasions.    Her   pastel   tai^tes 
are  evident  in  her  pale  blue  bedroom  and 
bath,  with  carnation-splattered  towels.    Dorothy 
and  her  husband,  Raymond  Scott,  are  co- 
workers on  Your  Hit  Pnrade  on  NBC-TV. 
True  woman  that  she  is,  she  has  kept  her 
husband's  masculine  tastes  predominant  in  the 
rest  of  their  home,  with  coxmtry  tones  of  oak, 
gold  and  forest-green.    Her  regal-as-a-princess 
posture  she  credits  to  her  grandmother,  who 
had  her  marching  around,  book- on-head, 
at  age  seven.  Grandma,  too,  knew  a  thing  or 
two  about  grace  and  granddaughter  Dorothy. 


THE  RECORD  PLAYERS 


About  the  time  I  first  used 
the  nickname  "Jozzbo,"  I  first  heard 
Anito  O'Day.  You  might  say  I've 
become  addicted  to  her  ever  since. 


The  greatest  O'Day  is 

cowing  up,  says  Al  "Jazzbo"  Collins, 

this  month's  deejay  columnist 


By   AL   COLLINS 


IT  WAS  in  1940,  or  maybe  '41,  that  I 
first  heard  Anita  O'Day  sing.  I  was 
doing  a  late  night  show  at  Station 
WIND  in  Chicago,  and  it  was  the  first 
time  that  I  used  the  nickname  "Jazz- 
bo."  I  played  this  Gene  Krupa  record 
and  when  I  heard  the  vocal  chorus  by 
Anita,  well,  I  thought  somebody  was 
kidding  with  the  voice — it  was  that 
different.  It  had  a  husky,  sandy, 
breathy  quality  that  I'd  never  heard 
before— and  have  heard  imitated  many 
times  since,  but  not  really  successfully. 

Throughout  the  years,  I've  pro- 
grammed Anita  thousands  of  times  .  .  . 
and  I  always  get  a  boot  out  of  her  style. 
It  seems  like  it's  taken  a  long  time  for 
her  to  get  the  recognition  she  deserves, 
but  her  latest  two  albums  for  Verve — 
"Anita  O'Day"  and  "Pick  Yourself  Up" 
— and  her  personal  appearances  in 
Hollywood,  Las  Vegas  and  Chicago, 
look  like  a  little  blood  is  going  to  be 
drawn — and  maybe  not  just  a  little, 
because  I  understand  Anita's  life  story 
is  going  to  be  filmed. 

If  you  look  up  the  word  "uninhib- 
ited," you'll  have  an  understatement  of 
Anita's  attitude  toward  singing.  She 
doesn't  listen  to  other  singers  because 
she  wants  no  influence  on  her  style  by 
anyone  else  than  Anita  O'Day.  They're 
always  talking  about  throwing  away 
the  mold  after  making  one  of  a  kind  .  .  . 
I  don't  even  think  Anita  had  a  mold  to 
start  with.  Try  to  find  some  of  the  old 
Gene  Krupa  records  that  Anita  cut 
with  Roy  Eldridge   ("Let  Me  Off  Up- 


town") and  a  counle  that  she  did  with 
Stan  K-="nton  ("i^nr!  Her  T'='ars  Flowed 
Like  Wine"  and  "Tampico")  and  you'll 
see  what  I'm  talking  about. 

In  all  the  years  I've  been  playing 
records  labeled  Anita  O'Day,  I  have 
actually  only  heard  her  sing,  in  person, 
in  the  flesh,  right  there,  twice.  Once 
was  in  Salt  Lake  City,  when  she  played 
a  club  that  had  only  been  open  two 
weeks  and  closed  two  weeks  after  she 
left.  But,  the  night  she  sang  there,  the 
club  felt  like  it  had  been  in  busmess 
for  ten  years  and  people  came  in  from 
very  remote  sections  to  hear  the  voice 
that  was,  until  that  night,  a  myth. 

Several  hundred  Anita  O'Day  rec- 
ords later,  I  found  myself  in  New  York. 
The  year  was  1956  and  I  was  doing  a 
series  of  live  musical  shows  over  NBC 
for  the  United  States  Air  Force  Re- 
serve. We  had  some  of  the  greatest 
guest  vocalists  and  one  night  we  had 
the  greof-^st.  One  night  we  had  Anita 
O'Day.  She  was  singing  at  Basin  Street 
and  we  were  into  our  show  ten  minutes 
when  Anita  arrived  .  .  .  and  you  might 
think  that  I  am  "putting  you  on" — I 
mean,  "pulling  your  leg,"  or  if  you're 
a  little  bit  older,  "io.shing" — when  I  tell 
you  she  was  electricity]  I  don't  mean 
she  shocked  anybody,  but  when  she 
stood  in  front  of  that  microphone  and 
sang  "You're  the  Top,'"  it  gave  off 
sparks! 

If  you  like  music,  are  a  musician, 
collect  records,  or  in  the  main  know 
"what's  shakin',"  then  all  this  has  been 


a  waste  of  time  to  you.  But  if  the  name 
Anita  O'Day  is  something  you've  seen 
and  not  heard,  then,  my  friend,  I  have 
got  a  small  bulletin  for  you.  "Watch 
Out."  In  closing  I'd  like  to  say  this: 
Quote:  If  you  don't  like  Anita  O'Day, 
please  be  advised  that  there  is  nothing 
wrong  with  her.  Unquote. 

LIGHTLY  IN  THE  GROOVE: 

Dick  Clark  announces  that  Phila- 
delphia teens  on  his  WFIL-TV  Band- 
stand have  created  a  half  Calypso,  half 
Cha-Cha  dance  called  Cha-lypso.  .  .  . 
Tab  Hunter,  fretting  over  Warner 
Bros.'  delayed  okay  on  the  release  of 
his  "99  Ways,"  sympathized  with  deeiay 
Alix  B'ake  of  WABY  in  Albany,  who 
penned  two  recitations — "A  Teen-Age 
Boy"  and  "A  Teen-Age  Girl."  Alix 
worried  that  the  kids  he  wrote  about 
would  be  grown-up  and  wed  by  the 
time  the  records  finally  came  out.  The 
hapny  ending:  All's  well  that  sells 
well.  .  .  .  Vick  Key  of  Key  Records 
told  Bill  Cullen  of  New  York's  WRCA 
that  his  artist,  Mary  Chaudet  ("I  Call 
Him  Daddy"),  also  does  a  great  magic 
act  with  husband  Bill.  Her  most  fab- 
ulous trick:  Turning  vinylite,  the  stuff 
records  are  made  of,  into  money!  .  .  . 
WMID's  Alan  Owen  has  one  of  the 
most  sought-after  deejay  jobs.  Come 
summer  in  Atlantic  City  and  he  does 
his  sho^'.'  from  the  beach,  surrounded 
by  lovely  mermaids. 

Jerry  Warren 


.lazzho's  on  Monitor,  Sat.,  8  to  midnight,  over  NBC  Radio,  and  on  The  Al  Collins  Show,  Mon.-Fri.,  4  to  6  P.M..  over  New  York's  WRCA. 


57 


PRIMA  DONNA 

First  with  the  ladies  in  Washington  is 
Donna  Douglas  of  WTOP  and  WTOP-TV 


Be    yourself    is    Donna's    guiding    rule 
for   living   and   for   broadcasting,   too. 


,,.„., -A, - 

Two  for  three:  The  Douglas  poodles  and  pretty  Ellen,   Donna  and  Rhea. 


Donna  devotes  her  off-hours  to  Rhea 
Anne,  getting  a  coiffure  above,  and 
Ellen    Laurie,    sharing   a    book   at   left. 


58 


WHERE  there's  a  woman  like  Donna  Douglas,  there's 
a  way.  Take  the  time  Donna  faced  the  television 
cameras  in  the  company  of  a  well-known  Italian  chef 
who  spoke  not  a  word  of  English.  For  a  moment,  Donna 
was  startled,  then  she  remembered  her  guiding  phi- 
losophy: "Be  yourself,  worry  more  about  what  you  say 
than  how  you  say  it."  Donna  turned  to  the  chef  and 
carried  on  an  intelligent  "conversation"  in  sign  language. 
.  .  .  Talking  without  words  is  not  the  only  contradiction 
about  this  charming  and  capable  blonde.  She  also  man- 
ages to  be  stimulating  and  relaxing  at  one  and  the  same 
time  on  The  Donna  Douglas  Show,  seen  weekdays 
on  WTOP-TV  at  1:10  P.M.  and  heard  weekdays 
on  WTOP  at  11:30  A.M.  Dedicated  to  women,  the 
programs  feature  interviews  with  outstanding  and 
qualified  guests  on  anything  from  pre-marital  counsel- 
ing to  politics.  Donna  is  a  crusader,  too.  One  pet  cam- 
paign is  to  get  her  listeners  and  viewers  to  refuse 
to  accept  inferior  merchandise.  If  there's  a  crooked 
seam  or  a  missing  button.  Donna  urges  that  the  item  be 
returned  to  the  store.  The  complaint  is  forwarded  from 
the  stores  to  the  manufacturers,  who  are  actually  grate- 
ful.   They  agree  with  Donna  that  this  is  the  only  way 


to  keep  housewives  from  being  "stuck."  .  .  .  The  only 
thing  usual  about  Donna's  shows  is  their  unfailing 
interest,  and  Donna's  varied  life  prepares  her  well  for 
this.  Born  in  Paris,  Ontario,  Canada,  she  went  to  school 
in  Pontiac,  Michigan,  when  her  family  moved  to  the 
States.  At  thirteen,  Donna  was  a  protege  of  dancer 
Vivian  Fay  and  also  a  student  at  the  Denishawn  School 
of  the  Dance.  From  dance.  Donna  turned  domestic  and 
majored  in  Home  Economics  and  Literature  at  Purdue 
University.  She  was  a  successful  model  when  she  com- 
peted with  thirty  girls  experienced  in  radio  and  tele- 
vision and  won  a  job  as  Mark  Evans'  assistant  on 
WTOP-TV,  in  1952.  It  wasn't  long  before  she  had  a 
show  of  her  own.  ...  A  Washington  resident  since  1944, 
Donna  feels  fortunate  in  a  broadcasting  schedule  that 
allows  her  to  combine  career  and  homemaking  for  her 
daughters.  Rhea  Ann,  11,  and  Ellen  Laurie,  7,  are  off  to 
school  before  Donna  leaves  for  the  studio,  and  she's  back 
in  time  to  welcome  them  home.  Active  in  the  PTA, 
she  just  took  up  golf.  "You  can  learn  a  great  deal  from 
the  game,"  she  says,  "principally  control  and  concen- 
tration." Charm,  as  Washington  knows,  is  something 
Donna  Douglas  learned  early — and  learned  very  well. 


MORE  THAN  A  VOICE 


WNEW's  Lonny  Starr  tries  to 
be  part  of  the  community,  too 


I   After  more  than  a  quarter-century  on  radio,  Lonny  plays  the  fan  here 
— for  Janet's  good  report  card — as  Edna  examines  a  book  of  Don's. 


ONE  OF  THOSE  stereotypes-come-true,  Lonny  Stan- 
is  that  rotund,  happy  man,  with  nary  a  complex.   As 
to  "cares,"  Lonny  has  'em  only  in  the  positive  sense — 
never  negative.  Lonny  cares  about  music,  and  he's  been 
called  "the  most  knowledgeable  deejay  in  town."  He  has 
an  ear  for  a  hit,  has  predicted  many  and  "made"  others 
on  his  two  programs  over  New  York's  Station  WNEW: 
Music  Hall,  heard  Monday  through  Sunday  from  2  to  4 
P.M.,  and  Starr,  Sinatra  And  Strings,  heard  Sunday  from 
10  to  noon.     Lonny  cares  about  people,  too.     "I  try  to 
become  part  of  the  community,"  he  says,  "not  just  a  voice 
on  the  air."     A  past  president  of  the  Valley  Stream 
Rotary,  Lonny  is  on  a  constant  round  of  speeches  and 
fund-raising  for  various  charity  drives.  ...  A  booming, 
one-man  corporation  for  playing  good  music  and  doing 
good  deeds,  Lonny  hails  from  Wilmington,  Delaware, 
the  state  that  boasts  more  corporations  than  any  other. 
The  son  of  a  ship's  captain,  he  was  fascinated  by  speech 
rather  than  the  sea.     He  admired  the  diction  of  people 
who  spoke  at  his  classes  or  in  church,  and  he  first  began 
emulating  them  for  the  public  at  Station  WDEL 
in  Wilmington — twenty-six  years  ago,  while  still 
a  student  at  the  University  of  Delaware.     Except  for  a 
minor  excursion  into  the  business  world  and  attendance 
at  the  Wharton  School,  he's  been  on  radio  ever  since. 
"I  go  back  to  the  days  of  Mert  And  Marge  and  Amos  'N' 
Andy,"  Lonny  laughs.  "Those  were  the  days  when 
we  used  to  sign  off  the  air  to  go  out  to  lunch,  or  close 
the  station  early  if  we  had  a  date."  When  Lonny  finally 
came  to  New  York  and  WNEW,  he  came  with  a  round- 
trip  ticket.     For  years,  he  carried  the  return  ticket  with 
him,  "just  in  case."     He  cashed  it  in  only  when  it  was 
about  to  expire.  .  .  .  Long-time  Starr  listeners  remember 
Lenny's  running  gag  on  sunny  days.     "Well,  Edna," 
he'd  address  his  wife,  "get  out  the  lawn  mower." 
Edna  marks  her  husband's  success  first  by  the  power 
lawn  mower  he  bought  for  her,  and  now  by  the  gardener 
they  hire  for  their  Valley  Stream  lawn.     The  lawn 
surrounds  a  comfortable,  large  home.     The  Starrs  have  a 
son  Donald,  lOVa,  and  a  daughter  Janet,  SVa-     Don  is  a 
rock  'n'  roll  booster.     Janet  takes  piano  lessons — and 
takes  them  seriously.     Both  are  Starr  listeners.     "And  if  I 
make  a  mistake  on  the  air  and  they  hear  it,"  says  Lonny, 
"they'll  remind  me  of  it."  Edna,  first  met  on  a  blind  date, 
was  a  practical  nurse.  "And  she  can  cook!"  Lonny  grins. 
"I'm  a  walking  example  of  that."  But,  as  anyone  with 
either  a  good  cause  or  a  good  record  to  promote  knows, 
Lonnie  Starr  is  frequently  a  good  example  for  everyone. 


Gardening  became  a  running  gag  on  rodio,  but 
Lonny  and  Janet  can  be  serious  about  it,  too. 


Music   is  a   triple   interest  for   Don,   a    rock   'n'   rol' 
fan,  deejay-songwriter  Lonny,  piano  student  Janet. 


59 


THE  THINGS  THAT  COUNT 


Find   a   hobby,    said   his   doctor.    Instead,    Don 
found  a  whole  new  way  of  life  bock  at  WSTC. 


Many  fathers   get  on   a   treadnnill   on   behalf  of  their  family. 
Don  got  off  one  for  his  wife  Virginia,   Pat,   Donna  and   Peggy. 


Now  there's  time  to  share  books  with   Pat  and 
Peggy  or  gather  Donna  and  Peg  at  the  organ. 


60 


Don  Russell  jumps  off  a  big  city  merry-go-^ round 
to  make  a  full  circle  home  to  WSTC  in  Stamford 

IF  SUCCESS  is  a  merry-go-'round,  Don  Russell  has  caught 
the  brass  ring  twice.  On  the  first  time  around,  Don  was 
on- camera  practically  around  the  clock  as  chief  announcer 
and  newscaster  for  the  Du  Mont  TV  station  in  New  York. 
But  the  brass  ring  was  really  brass.   Don's  family  faded  in  the 
blur    of    his    busy    schedule    and,    with    on-the-job 
disagreements  and  friction  over  how  to  present  the  news, 
Don  found  himself  in  a  state  of  extreme  nervous  tension. 
Stop!  his  doctor  told  him,  and  Don,  on  the  point  of  collapse, 
did.    He  kept  his  job  as  a  "communicator"  on  NBC's 
weekend   Monitor,   then   found   the   weekday   "hobby"   his 
doctor  recommended.    He  built  a  broadcasting  studio  in 
his  Stamford  home  and  went  back  to  work  for  WSTC,  the 
station  with  which  he  started  his  career  in  1941.    And 
this  time  around,  the  ring  has  the  glint  of  pure  gold.  .  .  .  Don 
Russell  Time,  heard  each  weekday  from  11  to  noon,  has 
become  one  of  the  highest-rated,  most  talked-about  programs 
on  the  Atlantic  seaboard.   With  no  particular  format,  Don 
plays  records,  sings  for  the  first  time,  covers  local  news,  does 
interviews   and   speaks   his   mind   on   any   and   all   subjects. 
Anyone  from  the  Mayor  or  the  Governor  to  Jackie  Gleason 
to  Don's  youngest  son  is  likely  to  wander  in  for  a  talk. 
Even  during  broadcast  time,  the  studio  is  open  territory 
for  wife  Virginia  and  for  Donna,  12,  Peggy,  9,  and  Patrick,  5. 
"I  thoroughly  refuse  to  do  a  program,"  says  Don,  "if  it's 
going  to  disrupt  my  family  life."  The  program  is  so  flexible 
that,   every  now  and  then,   listeners  will  hear  Don 
announce,  "Well,  such-and-such  a  sponsor,  we  didn't  get 
to  your  commercial  today,  but  we'll  get  it  in  tomorrow." 
.  .  .  "A  year  ago,  I  was  catching  the  7:55  into  New  York, 
coming  home  on  the  11:35  at  night,"  says  Don.    "I  was  so 
nervous  and  tense  I  used  to  sit  around   taking  my  pulse." 
Now,  he's  barely  aware  of  clocks,  has  time  to  meet  friends 
for  leisurely  lunches,  collect  records,  read  books,  and 
even  start  a  new  hobby  of  flying.  Don's  the  youngest  man 
ever  to  be  voted  a  member  of  the  State  Street  Debating 
Society,  Limited,  a  group  of  sixty  prominent  citizens 
who  conduct  debates.    "I  grew  up  in  Stamford,"  he  says, 
"and   I  never   knew   such   things   existed."    Don's   active   in 
other  clubs  and  organizations  and  is  keenly  civic-minded. 
"I'm  bringing  my  kids  up  in  this  town,"  says  Don,  "and 
anything  I  can  do  to  help  the  town  helps  them." 


the  new  Elvis? 

Now — for  the  first  time — the  complete  Tommy  Sands  story. 
Don't  miss  this  exciting  book  on  a  new  skyrocketing  per- 
former. TOMMY  SANDS— His  Life  Story— Over  1 25  photos. 


If  your  newsdealer  has  sold  out,  use  this  coupon 


BARTH  HOUSE,  INC. 

205  E.  42  ST..  NEW  YORK   17,  N.  Y. 

SIRS: 

I  ENCLOSE  3Sc.    PLEASE  RUSH  THE  NEW  TOMMY  SANDS 
BOOK  TO  ME. 


NAME. 


ADDRESS 


CITY ZONE STATE 


'»'«M«DS«Pu«Hy«WsuS 


NOW  AT  ALL  NEWSSTANDS— 35c 


61 


Tommy  Sands:  New  Singin'  Idol 


(Continued  irom  paae  44) 
because  I  can't  exwress  myself."  So  speaks 
handsome  teenager  Tommy  Sands,  the 
most  promising  male  discovery  of  the 
year.  In  the  past  few  months,  Tommy  has 
been  signed  on  as  a  feature  singer  on  the 
NBC-TV  Ernie  Ford  Show  and  he's  joined 
the  roster  of  Catjitol's  recording  artists. 
He  received  star  billing  on  Kraft  Theater's 
"The  Singin'  Idol,"  and  is  under  option 
there  to  do  three  more  teleplays — and  he 
has  been  contri^cted  by  20th  Century-Fox 
to  make  his  first  film.  He  is  suddenly 
burning  star-bright.  "I  don't  know  what 
it's  like,  being  a  star.  Right  now  being  what 
I  am,  whatever  it  is,  it's  kind  of  lonely. 
Most  afternoons  I  go  walking  by  myself. 
Maybe  I'll  stop  off  and  see  a  movie  or  go 
into  a  record  store.  Maybe  I'll  sit  at  home 
and  read.  And  it's  not  that  I  don't  like 
people.  It's  not  that  I  wouldn't  like  to  be 
going  to  a  dance.  When  I  do  go,  I'd  like 
to  dance  every  dance  and  close  the  place. 
I'd  like  to  go  on  to  a  drive-in  hamburger 
place  with  my  date  and  get  something  to 
eat  and  sit  and  talk.  I  like  that.  It's  just 
that  I  haven't  found  the  right  girl  to  do 
these  things  with,  and  I've  been  looking 
for  her  a  long  time." 

Tommy  grins  as  he  recalls  his  first  big 
love.  "At  eight,  my  heavy  crush  was  Eliz- 
abeth Taylor.  I  was  in  love  with  her  until 
I  was  twelve.  No  one  at  the  time  loved  her 
more  than  I,  but  she  didn't  know  it.  But 
all  my  friends  in  Shreveport  knew  about 
it.  When  she  got  married  the  first  time, 
one  of  the  little  girls  in  school  said,  'You 
know  that  girl  you  love  married  Nicky 
Hilton.'  I  said,  'Don't  worry.  What's  meant 
to  be  is  meant  to  be.'  I  thought  that  when 
I  did  get  to  Hollywood,  Elizabeth  Taylor 
would  just  look  at  me  and  know  from  my 
eyes  that  she  was  meant  only  for  me." 

Tommy  hasn't  yet  come  face  to  face 
with  Liz  Taylor,  but  he  arrived  in  Holly- 
wood about  a  year  ago.  He  was  eighteen 
then,  with  ten  years'  professional  experi- 
ence behind  him.  He  began  to  work  when 
he  was  in  third  grade. 

"My  kids  aren't  going  into  show  busi- 
ness until  they  are  out  of  high  school,"  says 
Tommy.  "It's  no  life  for  a  kid.  Not  that  I 
have  any  grudge  against  my  parents.  Noth- 
ing could  stop  me  from  playing  guitar 
and  singing  when  I  was  a  kid." 

1  ommy's  father,  Benny  Sands,  is  a  well- 
know  pianist  in  Chicago.  In  the  past  he 
has  played  with  Ted  Lewis,  Art  Kassel  and 
other  name  bands.  Tommy's  mother,  a 
slender  and  fair  woman,  sang  with  name 
bands  under  her  maiden  name  of  Grace 
Lou  Dickson.  She  had  retired  from  the 
business  when  Tommy  was  born. 

"From  the  time  I  was  very  young,  moth- 
er and  I  were  practically  commuting  be- 
tween Chicago  and  Shreveport,  Louisiana. 
My  mother  is  from  Shreveport  and  my 
uncle  and  aunt  had  a  fine,  big  farm  there. 
They  had  raised  my  mother  and  she  was 
very  close  to  them,  and  so  was  I.  And  I'll 
never  forget  what  it  was  like  .  .  .  acres  and 
acres  of  cotton  fields  and  lots  of  old-fash- 
ioned, horse-drawn  wagons.  Then  my 
aunt  had  at  least  five  acres  of  gladiolas 
right  behind  the  house — bright  and  beauti- 
ful. I  remember  my  aunt  used  to  teach  me 
stories  and  poems  when  I  was  about  three 
and  take  me  around  to  the  neighbors  to 
show  me  off.  I  was  about  four  when  I 
joined  the  church.  Sunday  after  church 
I'd  round  up  some  of  the  neighbor  kids  and 
take  them  behind  the  house.  I'd  climb  up 
J  on  a  box  and  repeat  the  sermon  to  them." 
V  Although  Tommy's  parents  were  iden- 
B  tified  with  formal  music.  Tommy  was  first 
drawn  to  country  music  and  the  guitar.  It 
happened  at  Shreveport  in  his  eighth  year. 


At  the  time,  he  was  ill  and  co'^fined  to  bed, 
with  a  radio  for  companionshin.  He  woke 
at  5:30  A.M.,  with  the  rest  of  the  house- 
hold, and  tuned  in  Shreveport's  KWKH 
and  its  morning  star,  Harmie  Smith. 

"Harmie  sang  and  talked  and  played 
guitar.  Years  later  he  was  to  become  a 
good  friend  of  mine.  But  even  then  he  rep- 
resented a  warmth  and  friendship  to  me 
just  from  hearing  him  on  the  radio.  And  he 
was,  you  might  say,  responsible  for  my 
career.  Listening  to  him  play  guitar  made 
me  want  to  do  the  same.  I  begged  mother 
for  a  guitar  for  Christmas  and  she  got  me 
one.  It  was  a  cheap  instrument,  but  I  got 
onto  it  right  away.  I  liked  to  play  so  much 
that  she  decided  I  could  have  a  good  guitar. 
Well,  we  priced  a  good  one.  It  was  about 
$60  and  we  couldn't  afford  it.  We  had  to 
buy  it  on  time.  Every  Saturday  morning 
I'd  go  into  the  music  store  and  make  my 
payment  and  they'd  take  the  guitar  off 
the  shelf  and  let  me  play  it  awhile." 

Tommy  smiles  and  goes  on,  "It  took 
about  four  months  to  pay  for  the  guitar 
and  by  that  time  I  was  playing  pretty 
good.  I  made  the  final  payment  and  I  was 
carrying  the  new  guitar  in  a  new  case  for 
the  first  time.  On  the  way  home  I  passed 
Station  KWKH.  Well,  I  walked  in  and  got 
talking  and  played  and  sang  for  the 
station  manager.  He  gave  me  a  program 
of  my  own,  once  a  week  singing  Western 
songs,  and  paid  me  five  dollars.  I  used  to 
spend  the  five  on  lessons  and  music  books 
and  records  for  a  wind-up  phonograph  we 
had.    I  was  eight  years  old  then." 

Tommy's  parents  thought  his  interest  in 
the  guitar  and  country  music  would  pass. 
They  weren't  keen  on  his  being  a  musi- 
cian or  entertainer.  When  they  found  that 
they  couldn't  discourage  him,  they  tried 
coaxing  him  into  taking  piano  instead  of 
guitar  lessons,  but  Tommy  wouldn't  coax. 
Even  in  Chicago  he  spent  hours  playing 
Western  music.  "When  I  was  nine  I 
wanted  a  cowboy  outfit  in  the  worst  way. 
They  tried  to  talk  me  out  of  it  but  my 
heart  was  made  up.  Well,  for  Christmas 
I  got  cowboy  togs — a  tan  hat,  green  shirt 
and  brown  pants.  I  wore  them  everywhere 
and  carried  along  my  guitar.  I  remember 
a  friend  of  the  family's  once  tried  to  ex- 
plain, 'We  don't  dress  that  way  in  Chicago, 
Tommy,'  but  it  made  no  difference  to  me." 

Tommy's  parents  are  divorced,  but  Tom- 
my got  used  to  being  separated  from  his 
father  even  as  a  tot,  for  his  father  was 
often  on  the  road  for  weeks  at  a  time  with 
bands  and  his  mother  made  frequent  ex- 
tended trips  to  Shreveport. 

"I'm  close  to  both  parents,"  Tommy  says. 
"Dad  came  to  see  me  on  the  Coast  and 
then  he  came  into  New  York  when  I  was 
on  Kraft  in  'The  Singin'  Idol.'  But  I've 
always  made  my  home  with  my  mother. 
We've  never  been  separated.  I  think  she's 
probably  loved  me  too  much  for  her  own 
good.  What  I  mean  is  that  she's  had  to 
make  so  many  personal  sacrifices  for  my 
sake.  She'd  go  without  stockings  for  her- 
self to  buy  me  clothes.  I  can  remember  a 
five-year  stretch  when  she  didn't  buy 
anything  much  for  herself  and  yet  she 
always  took  good  care  of  me.  I  always  had 
a  good  Christmas,  no  matter  how  hard 
up  we  were." 

Tommy's  mother,  who  had  trained  as  a 
registered  nurse  upon  retiring  from  pro- 
fessional singing,  worked  in  a  doctor's 
office  in  Shreveport  and  then  in  Houston. 
They  lived  in  Shreveport  until  late  1949. 
That  was  the  year  the  network  radio 
program  Louisiana  Hayride  premiered  out 
of  Shreveport,  and  for  six  months  Tommy 
was  on  the  show.  But  he  was  making  only 
$12.50  a  week,  and  his  mother's  income 
was  down. 


"I  was  twelve  and  Mother  decided  we 
should     move     over     to     Houston.     She 
thought   she   could   make   a   better   living 
there  and  yet  it  wouldn't  be  too  far  from 
her  family  in  Shreveport.  Of  course.  Moth-    ^  i 
er  never  counted  on  my  income.  Such  jobs  1 
as  I  got  were  always  on  my  own  initiative.    * ' 
In  those  days  I  wanted  to  be  an  enter- 
tainer as  much  as  I  do  today." 

In  Houston,  Tommy  immediately  got 
a  job  as  deejay  and  singer  on  Station  KLEE 
and  he  was  there  nearly  five  years.  He 
began  to  work  in  TV  and  night  clubs.  He 
made  up  to  eighty  dollars  a  week,  but  ri 
not  regularly.  "It  seems  like  deejays  got  1 
to  be  my  best  friends.  In  Houston,  it  was  II 
Biff  Collie.  Biff  used  to  come  on  the  air, 
still  does,  I  guess,  and  say,  'This  is  your 
bellerin',  bow-legged  boy.  Biff  Collie — 
Collie,  spelled  just  like  a  dog.'  Well,  Biff 
was  like  a  father  or  a  big  brother  to  me. 
I'd  always  take  around  my  troubles  to 
Biff,  if  I  were  broke  or  lost  a  job.  I  went 
to  him  the  time  I  was  upset  because  they 
told  me  I  was  too  Ught  for  varsity  foot- 
ball. Biff  had  the  knack  of  helping  me  see 
the  other  side,  the  bright  side  and  my 
positive  talents.  Through  Biff  and  my 
school  friends,  I  grew  to  love  Houston." 

In  1951,  the  director  of  the  Alley  Thea- 
ter in  Houston  heard  of  Tommy  and  asked 
him  to  try  out  for  their  major  dramatic 
production  of  the  season.  The  play  was 
"The  Magic  Fallacy"  and  Tommy  played 
the  part  of  a  sensitive  child  who  is  emo- 
tionally disturbed.  Tommy's  superb  per- 
formance won  him  the  Sidney  Holmes 
Memorial  Award,  a  rare  tribute  for  a 
fourteen-year-old.  Three  years  later,  his 
high  school's  dramatic  production  of  "Our 
Town,"  in  which  Tommy  starred,  won 
first  prize  in  all-state  competition  in  Texas. 
That  was  in  1955,  but  it  was  in  1953  that 
Tommy  met  Colonel  Tom  Parker,  who 
was  also  managing  Elvis  Presley. 

Tommy  says,  "I  was  singing  in  a  night 
club  during  the  Houston  Fat  Stock  Show. 
Colonel  Parker,  who  was  then  managing 
Eddy  Arnold,  dropped  in  the  club  where  I 
was  working.  He  liked  me  and  was  my 
manager  until  September  of  1956,  when 
I  went  to  Hollywood.  I  think  he's  one  of 
the  greatest  guys  I've  ever  known." 

Colonel  Parker  got  Tommy  his  first 
recording  contract  and  took  him  out  on 
tour.  His  buddy  on  some  of  these  tours  was 
Presley.  Tommy  says,  "Elvis  is  regular. 
He's  never  let  success  go  to  his  head.  He's 
as  nice  today  as  he  was  when  I  first  met 
him.  And  he's  a  fine  musician.  He's  got 
the  beat  and  feel  for  down-to-earth  blues. 
When  I  was  a  kid  I  got  interested  in  rhythm 
and  blues  as  sung  by  Negroes.  They 
originated  what  we  now  call  'rock  'n' 
roll.'  But  now  it's  grown  very  commercial. 
Some  recording  companies  think  that  as 
long  as  they  get  the  words  'rock  'n'  roll' 
into  the  lyrics  that  it's  the  real  thing.  It 
isn't  and  you'll  never  hear  Elvis  sing  that 
commercial  kind  of  rock  'n'  roll.  He  sings 
authentic  blues." 

Tommy  left  Houston  in  1955.  His  mother 
had  been  ill  and  a  friend  in  Shreveport 
phoned  and  offered  him  a  steady  paying 
job  as  a  deejay.  "He  gave  me  less  than 
twelve  hours  to  make  up  my  mind  and 
made  me  a  good  offer.  Well,  I  didn't  want 
Mother  to  work  any  more  the  way  she  was 
feeling,  so  I  quit  school  and  took  the  job." 

That  was  in  September.  Back  in  Shreve- 
port he  got  to  be  a  close  friend  of  his  first 
idol,  Harntiie  Smith.  He  kept  the  job  a 
whole  year  and  saved  his  money.  July  of 
last  year,  Tommy  and  his  mother  moved  to 
Hollywood.  Tommy  auditioned  for  Cliflfie 
Stone,  who,  besides  being  Ernie  Ford's 
manager,    has    a    five-day-a-week    radio 


show  over  KXLA  in  Los  An<?eles  dIus  a 
Saturday  night  TV  show  on  KTLA.  Tommy 
became  a  regular  on  both  shows.  He  also 
made  a  couple  appearances  on  Ernie  Ford's 
show.  Then  Colonel  Parker  got  a  script 
from  Kraft  Theater  for  Presley's  consider- 
ation. Parker  turned  it  down  but  recom- 
mended Tommy  Sands  for  the  lead.  Tommy 
auditioned  and  got  the  part.  It  was  his 
first  professional  role.  Critically,  the 
teleplay  itself  got  mixed  reviews.  But 
Tommy,  without  exception,  got  high  praise. 
Paul  Bogart,  who  directed  the  drama, 
says,  "Tommy  was  very  responsive  and 
a  pleasure  to  work  with.  He  has  a  native 
acting  ability  and  he  should  go  far."  Kraft 
producer,  Maury  Holland,  immediately 
put  him  under  option  for  three  more. 

Tommy's  first  recording  for  Capitol  is 
winging  toward  the  million  mark.  Both 
songs  on  the  disc  were  featured  on  the 
Kraft  show  and,  in  keeping  with  the 
character  he  portrayed,  were  rock  'n'  roll. 
Actually,  Tommy  is  singing  more  ballads 
these  days.  He  has  even  dropped  the  guitar, 
for  he  feels  it  is  Presley's  trademark. 

There  is  no  reason  to  compare  Tommy 
and  Elvis  for  they  are  different  person- 
alities, but  one  thing  they  have  in  common 
is  their  devotion  to  religion. 

"I  joined  the  Methodist  Church  when  I 
was  four  years  old.  That  was  down  in 
Shreveport,"  Tommy  says.  "I've  always 
been  very  religious  but  something  hap- 
pened to  me  in  the  last  couple  of  years. 
I'd  had  some  disappointments  and  head- 
aches and  I  guess  I  wasn't  going  to  church 
so  regularly.  Then  Dad  came  out  to  visit 
me  about  a  year  ago.  He'd  had  a  stroke 
and,  afterwards,  became  a  Christian  Sci- 
entist. Well,  he  got  me  interested  and  I 
ioined,  too.  Well,  I  feel  better  and  better 
things  have  been  happening  to  me  since. 
Yes,  sir,  I'm  a  man  who  takes  religion 
very  seriously." 

Tommy  neither  drinks  nor  smokes.  He 
says,  "It  used  to  bother  me.  Should  I 
drink  and  should  I  smoke?  Well,  I  can 
talk  things  over  with  Mother.  Anything. 
So  I  told  her  one  day.  I  mentioned  a 
name  of  a  friend  and  said  that  he  smoked 
and  drank.  I  asked  her,  'What  do  you 
think  about  me  doing  it?'  and  she  said, 
'As  I've  always  told  you,  you're  a  man. 
I'm  not  going  to  tell  you  what  to  do,  but 
there  are  a  couple  of  points  to  think  about. 
You  want  to  sing  and  you  know  smoking 
isn't  good  for  your  voice.  And  you  know 
from  your  religious  upbringing  that  drink- 
ing is  better  left  undone.'  And  then  she 
concluded,  as  she  usually  does,  by  saying, 
'The  important  thing  is  to  remember  any- 
thing done  to  excess  is  wrong  regardless 
of  what  it  is.'  So  I  don't  smoke  or  drink 
but  I  don't  choose  my  friends  on  the  basis 
of  whether  they  do.  No  one's  ever  ruined 
me.  I  don't  think  other  people  can  hurt 
you.  When  you  get  hurt,  you're  doing  it 
to  yourself." 

Tommy  is  sensitive  and  introspective. 
In  the  apartment  he  shares  with  his  moth- 
er, he  has  a  collection  of  books  on  religion 
and  philosophy  that  he  reads  frequently, 
but  he  balances  this  with  a  keen  interest 
in  sports.  He's  been  boxing  since  he  was 
a  kid.  He  likes  water  sports  and  he's 
crazy  about  horses.  But  he  finds  his  social 
life  wanting. 

Tommy  grins  and  says,  "I'm  looking  for 
a  girl  all  the  time.  I'd  like  to  get  married 
and  I  want  a  girl  who  is  religious,  loves 
a  home  life,  children,  dogs — the  works.  I 
just  want  to  be  at  oneness  with  someone." 

And  Tommy  isn't  hard  to  find.  Most 
afternoons  he  takes  a  walk  up  Hollywood 
Boulevard.  On  the  way  he  may  step  into 
a  music  store  to  listen  to  some  records.  He 
may  be  studying  the  bill  outside  a  movie. 
You  can't  mistake  him — he's  polite,  hand- 
some and  a  very  nice  guy.  And  he'll  be 
alone.  But  I  don't  think  for  long. 


NEW! 


STAR 
CANDID8 


W»'v«    added    tome    brcrmi 

new  sfam  and  hr<sr>d  n«w  pic- 
tures starting  witk  #248. 
Ch«eS(  th*  list  fe«fow  lor  ywir 
fovofttes.  All  hattdsome  4x5 
photos,  on  glossy  stock,  just 
right  lor  framing.  $mui  your 
order  toeJay. 


tmi  nmms 


CANDIDS 


1 .  Lana  Turner 

2.  Betty  Grable 

3.  Ava  Gardner 

5.  Alan  Ladd 

6.  Tyrone  Power 

7.  Gregory  Peck 
9.  Esther  Williams 

11.  Elizabeth  Taylor 

14.  Cornel  Wilde 

15.  Frank  Sinatra 

18.  Rory  Calhoun 

19.  Peter  Lawford 

2 1 .  Bob  Mitchum 

22.  Burt  Lancaster 

23.  Bing  Crosby 
25.  Dale  Evans 
27.  June  AUysoo 

33.  Gene  Autry 

34.  Roy  Rogers 

35.  Sunset  Carson 

50.  Diana  Lynn 

5 1 .  Doris  Day 

52.  Montgomery  Clift 

53.  Richard  Widmark 

56.  Perry  Cemo 

57.  Bill  Holden 

66.  Gordon  MacRae 

67.  Ann  BIyth 

68.  Jeanne  Crain 

69.  Jane  Russell 
74.  John  Wayne 
78.  Audie  Murphy 
84.  Janet  Leigh 
86.  Farley  Granger 

91.  John  Derek 

92.  Guy  Madison 
94.  Mario  Lanza 
103.  Scott  Brady 

105.  Vic  Damone 

106.  Shelley  Winters 

107.  Richard  Todd 


109.  Dean  Martin 

110.  Jerry  Lewis 
112.  Susan  Hayward 
117.  Terry  Moore 
121.  Tony  Curtis 
124.  Gail  Davis 

127.  Piper  Laurie 

128.  Debbie  Reynolds 

135.  Jeff  Chandler 

136.  Rock  Hndson 

137.  Stewart  Granger 

139.  Debro  Paget 

140.  Dale  Robertson 

141.  Marilyn   Monroe 

142.  Leslie  Caron 

143.  Pier  Angeli 

144.  Mitzi  Gaynor 

145.  Marlon  Brando 

146.  Aldo  Ray 

147.  Tab  Hunter 

148.  Robert  Woqner 

149.  Russ  Tamblyn 

150.  Jeff  Hunter 
152.  MargeandGow- 

er  Champion 

174.  Rita  Gam 

175.  Charlton  Keston 

176.  Steve  Cochran 

177.  Richard  Burton 

179.  Julius  La  Rosa 

180.  Lucille  BaU 
182.  Jack   Webb 
185.  Richard  Egan 
187.  Jeff  Richards 

190.  Pat  Crowley 

191.  Robert  Taylor 

192.  Jean  Simmons 
194.  Audrey  Hepburn 
198.  Gale  Storm 
202.  George  Nader 


205.  Ann  Sothern 
207.  Eddie  Fisher 
209.  Liberace 

211.  Bob  Frands 

212.  Grace  Kelly 

213.  James  Dean 

214.  Sheree  North 

215.  Kim  Novak 

216.  Richard  Davalos 

218.  Eva  Marie  Saint 

219.  Natalie  Wood 

220.  Dewey  Martin 

221.  Joan  Collins 

222.  Jayne  Mansfield 

223.  Sal  MIneo 

224.  Shirlev  Jones 

225.  Elvis  Presley 

226.  Victoria  Shaw 

227.  Tony  Perkins 

228.  Clint  Walker 

229.  Pot  Boone 

230.  Paul  Newman 

231.  Don  Murray 

232.  Don  Cherry 

233.  Pat  Wayne 

234.  Carroll  Baker 

235.  Anita  Ekberg 

236.  Corey  AUen 


237.  Dana  Wynter 

238.  Diana  Dors 

239.  Judy  Busch 

240.  Patti  Page 

241.  Lawrence  Welk 

242.  Alice  Lon 

243.  Larry  Dean 

244.  Buddy   Merrill 

245.  Hugh  O'Briaa 

246.  Jim  Arness 

247.  Sanford  Clark 

248.  Vera  Miles 

249.  John  Saxon 

250.  Dean  Stockwell 

251.  Diane  Jergens 

252.  Warren  Berlicger 

253.  James  MacArthur 

254.  Nick  Adams 

255.  John  Kerr 

256.  Harry  Betafonte 

257.  Jim  Lowe 

258.  Luana  Patten 

259.  Dennis  Hopper 

260.  Tom  Tryon 

261.  Tommy  Sands 

262.  WiU  Hutchins 


FILL    IN    AND    MAIL 
COUPON  TODAY! 


I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
7  I 


WORLD  WIDE,  DEPT.    WG-6-57 
112  Main  St..  Ossining,  N.  Y. 

I  enclose  $ for   candid 

pictures  of  my  favorite  stars  end  have  circled 
the  numbers  of  the  ones  you  are  to  send  me 
by  return  mail. 

NAME 


STREET. 


CITY. 


ZONE STATE 

Fill  out  and  mail  coupon  today.    Send  cash 
or  monay  order.  12  pictures  for  $1 ;  6  for  50c. 


63 


(Continued  from  page  30) 
We  spark   each  other,"   Whit   explains   it. 

"There  is  nothing,"  says  Haila,  "we  do 
not  share  completely,  and  somehow  that 
makes   everything   work   out." 

Where  to  live  had  to  be  worked  out, 
first  of  all.  Should  it  be  in  the  city,  which 
would  be  most  sensible  from  the  view- 
point of  their  work?  Should  it  be  in  the 
country,  which  would  mean  more  for 
Haila's  three  children  and  for  a  richer 
family  life? 

The  question  seemed  settled  when  Haila 
and  Whit  came  upon  a  lovely  old  house  for 
rent  about  an  hour  out  of  the  city.  It  was 
close  to  the  children's  boarding  schools  so 
they  could  get  home  easily  every  weekend. 
It  was  in  beautiful  country,  and  was  fur- 
nished with  fine  old  antiques.  They  took  it. 

And  right  away  there  were  complica- 
tions. Haila  accepted  a  new  assignment 
which  was  quite  an  honor  but  which 
meant  staying  in  town  late  every  night. 
She  became  the  standby  for  Rosalind 
Russell  in  Broadway's  "Auntie  Mame." 
While  Haila  didn't  actually  have  to  stay 
at  the  theater,  she  was  committed  to  be 
available  on  ten  minutes'  notice  anytime 
during  the  performance.  Meanwhile,  Whit 
himself  has  to  be  at  rehearsals  for  The 
Guiding  Light  early  in  the  morning. 

"Thanks  to  my  agent  and  good  friend, 
Georgia  Gilley,"  Haila  says,  "we  can  have 
our  cake  and  eat  it."  During  the  week,  they 
share  Miss  Gilley's  Manhattan  apartment. 
Then,  come  the  weekend,  they  head  for 
the  country.  Whit  gets  there  Saturday 
morning  and  Haila  on  Saturday  night, 
after  her  standby  duties  are  over.  In 
the  meanwhile,  eighteen-year-old  Robin, 
fourteen-year-old  Christopher  and  eight- 
year-old  T.  J.  have  put  in  their  appear- 
ances during  the  day. 

Sometimes,  during  the  week,  when  Whit 
doesn't  have  a  rehearsal  next  day,  they 
trek  up  to  the  country  at  midnight  just 
in  order  to  spend  an  hour  or  so  there  the 
next  morning.  "There's  something  about 
the  mere  fact  of  getting  away  from  the 
city  into  the  country  that  ?ives  vou  a  new 
kick-off  into  the  next  day,"  Whit  says. 
"Just  that  lazy  hour  over  coffee,  before 
returning  to  town,  sends  us  back  relaxed 
and  re-charged." 

They're  able  to  spend  a  lot  of  time 
together  because  of  their  daytime-serial 
assignments.  Like  everything  else,  it  just 
works  out. 

"We're  really  very  lucky,"  Haila  says. 
"We  even  work  in  the  same  building.  We 
have  lunch  together  almost  every  day." 

Far  from  presenting  problems,  the  fact 
that  both  are  in  the  acting  profession  has 
been  a  great  positive  bond.  There  has 
never  been  the  slightest  question  between 
them  of  the  competitiveness  which  is 
often  the  bugaboo  of  actor  couples. 

"There  never  can  be,"  Haila  explains 
simply.  "To  begin  with,  we  both  know  that 
we're  good,  and  we  both  have  tremendous 
resnect  for  each  other's  work." 

"More  than  that,"  Whit  adds,  "we're 
an  excellent  team.  We  complement  each 
other  on  the  stage  just  as  in  real  life." 

It's  something  people  have  remarked  on 

whenever  Haila  and  Whit  have  performed 

together.  And  they  felt  it  themselves  from 

the    very    beginning — a    magnetic    pulling 

together  that  brought  out  the  best  in  each 

other.  It  was,  in  fact,  as  a  performing  team 

that  they  first  met  in  the  summer  of  1953. 

This  was  at  Elitch's  Gardens,  the  famous 

T    summer-stock  company  in  Denver,  where 

*     so  many  great  American  actors  have  played. 

1        Haila  was  there  for  the  first  time,  that 

summer,    as  the   company's   leading   lady, 

while  it  was  Whit's  fifth  season  as  a  lead- 

64 


They  Lead  Three  Lives 

ing  man.  Almost  as  soon  as  rehearsals 
started,  they  had  formed  a  professional 
mutual  admiration  society. 

As  Haila  says,  "It  was  an  immediate 
recognition  born  out  of  mutual  respect  and 
admiration."  And  Whit  adds,  "I  was  crazy 
about  the  way  she  worked,  her  great  hon- 
esty and  range  of  talent,  her  tremendous 
versatility  and  believability." 

"You  might  say,"  Haila  remarks,  "that 
we  fell  in  love  with  each  other's  work  long 
before  there  was  any  thought  of  a  personal 
attachment." 

That  didn't  develop  till  a  couple  of  years 
later.  In  the  meanwhile,  after  the  ten-week 
season  at  Elitch's  Gardens  was  over,  Haila 
returned  to  New  York  and  Whit  went  back 
home  to  California.  He  had  been  living 
there  for  about  six  years,  and  even  today 
he  goes  back  on  frequent  trips.  The  rea- 
son for  that  is  a  lovely  little  girl  named 
Erin,  who  is  Whit's  much-beloved  daugh- 
ter by  a  previous  marriage.  Despite  the 
distance  between  them  at  present,  there  is 
a  deep  attachment  and  close  father-daugh- 
ter relationship  between  Whit  and  Erin, 
who  is  now  almost  ten  years  old.  "Thank 
heavens  for  air  travel,"  Whit  says  .  "It  only 
takes  me  eight  hours  to  get  there." 

Though  California  was  his  home  base  in 
1953,  Whit  was  always  ready  to  head  East 
for  a  part  in  a  good  play.  In  financial  terms, 
he  was  doing  fine  in  Hollywood.  He  had  all 
the  work  he  could  handle,  as  a  featured 
player  in  movies  and  television  films,  but 
he  found  the  work  frustrating. 

"Making  movies,"  he  says,  "can  be  just 
about  the  most  tiring  and  boring  work  an 
actor  can  do.  For  every  ten  hours  at  the 
studio,  you're  in  front  of  the  camera  any- 
where from  ten  minutes  to  an  hour." 

Whit  felt  the  parts  he  was  given  didn't 
permit  him  to  do  the  kind  of  acting  he 
feels  drawn  to,  which  is  character  acting. 
"It's  always  hard  to  get  a  chance  to  do 
character  parts,  if  you  look  like  a  leading- 
man  type,"  he  explains,  "but  in  Hollywood 
it  was  impossible.  And  for  me,  personally, 
I  have  felt  for  a  long  time  that  my  talent 
lies  in  the   direction   of  character   work." 

Whit  is,  very  simply,  the  kind  of  serious, 
dedicated  performer  to  whom  financial 
success  isn't  enough.  He  was  born  in  Ire- 
land, came  to  the  United  States  at  the  age 
of  six,  and  was  brought  up  in  Detroit.  It 
was  in  high  school  there  that  he  first  took 
part  in  a  play  and  found  it  "more  exciting 
than  anything  I  had  imagined." 

He  went  on  to  Wayne  University,  where 
he  worked  his  way  by  doing  a  variety  of 
jobs,  majored  in  dramatics  and  acted  for 
Detroit  radio  stations.  Among  the  shows 
he  did  then  were  The  Green  Hornet  and 
The  Lone  Ranger,  and,  by  that  time,  "it 
was  hard  to  consider  doing  anything  be- 
sides acting."  He  followed  up  his  bachelor's 
degree  with  a  Master  of  Arts  from  the 
University  of  Michigan.  In  1941,  he  packed 
himself  up  to  pursue  fame  and  fortune  in 
Chicago.  There  he  worked  in  radio  for  a 
year,  and  then  went  into  the  Coast  Guard. 
Going  in  as  a  seaman,  he  ended  up  as  an 
officer  commanding  ships  in  both  the  At- 
lantic and  Pacific.  In  1946,  he  was  separated 
from  the  service  and  headed  for  New  York. 

It  was  now  that  Whit  began  to  establish 
his  reputation  as  a  top-flight  young  actor. 
First,  there  was  a  role  in  Maurice  Evans' 
"Hamlet,"  then  in  "The  Duchess  of  Malfi," 
with  Elisabeth  Bergner.  After  that,  be-^quse 
it  seemed  to  him  that  Hollywood  offered 
more  opportunities,  he  went  out  there  to 
settle  down,  and  made  his  screen  debut  in 
"Tap  Roots,"  with  Susan  Hayward. 

But  the  following  year,  in  1948,  he  was 
happily  back  on  Broadway  again.  This 
time,  he  scored  an  outstanding  success  in 
two    different    hits,    "Kathleen"    and    the 


Michael  Redgrave  production  of  "Mac- 
beth." At  the  end  of  the  season,  he  re- 
ceived an  award  as  "one  of  the  most  prom- 
ising young  actors  of  the  year." 

After  that,  Whit  returned  to  Hollywood 
once  again.  Up  to  the  time  he  came  back 
East  for  good,  about  three  years  ago,  he 
had  made  something  like  one  htmdred 
television  films  and  ten  full-length  movies, 
the  last  one  being  "The  Saracen  Blade." 
It  was  in  1955  that  he  made  his  final  de- 
cision to  live  in  New  York,  and  then  it 
was  that  he  and  Haila  began  to  see  a  great 
deal  of  each  other. 

But  a  year  and  a  half  were  still  to  pass 
before  they  got  married.  Both  had  expe- 
rienced unhappy  marriages  and  were  de- 
termined not  to  make  another  mistake. 
"We  were  very  cautious  about  it,"  Haila 
explains.  "We  knew  that  we  clicked  beau- 
tifully in  a  professional  relationship,  but 
we  wanted  to  be  very  sure  that  we  would 
make  out  as  well  in  a  personal  relation- 
ship." 

During  that  time,  they  grew  to  know 
each  other  very  well.  "It  was  terribly  ex- 
citing," Haila  says,  "because  we  kept  dis- 
covering new  things  in  which  we  were 
both  interested.  Finally,  we  realized  there 
just  doesn't  seem  to  be  anything  in  which 
we  don't  share  a  mutual  interest." 

There  is — to  pick  at  random — Irish  liter- 
ature and  music,  cooking  and  interior 
decorating,  .sports  and  country  living,  re- 
ligion and  extra-sensory  perception,  and,  of 
course,  the  theater  and  television. 

Actually,  for  Haila,  television  has  sup- 
planted the  live  theater  in  her  enthusiasm 
and  interest.  What  she  hopes  for  now  is  to 
get  more  involved  in  television  production 
than  in  acting.  Production  has  always  been 
her  great  interest  in  the  theater.  "Always, 
I  wanted  to  work  in  the  production  end," 
she  says.  "Back  in  my  teens  and  then  when 
I  was  in  college,  production  was  what  drew 
me  into  theatrical  activities.  But,  some- 
how, I  always  ended  up  on  the  stage,  in- 
stead of  behind  it." 

Despite  her  reservations,  however, 
Haila's  career  on  the  stage  has  been  a 
brilliant  one.  It  started  with  a  sixty-five 
week  tour  in  "Tobacco  Road,"  after  her 
graduation  from  the  University  of  South- 
ern California,  and  went  on  to  include 
starring  and  co-starring  roles  in  some  of 
the  most  celebrated  Broadway  hits,  in- 
cluding "Blithe  Spirit,"  "The  Voice  of  the 
Turtle,"  "Affairs  of  State"  and  "Dream 
Girl." 

She  was  one  of  the  first  successful  stage 
actresses  to  appear  on  television,  and  has 
been  fascinated  by  it  from  the  beginning. 
She  has  been  playing  the  part  of  Pauline 
Harris  in  The  Secret  Storm  since  the 
drama  began,  and  has  always  enjoyed  it. 

One  of  the  most  interesting  develop- 
ments during  their  courtship  period  was 
the  relationship  that  grew  up  between 
Whit  and  Haila's  three  children.  "They 
made  it  very  clear  that  they  liked  him," 
says  Haila,  "and  there  was  just  never  any 
question  as  to  how  they  would  feel  about 
our  getting  married.  They  were  definitely 
trying  to  promote  it." 

Whit's  role  with  the  children  now  falls 
into  a  unique  category  something  differ- 
ent from  friend  or  father,  yet  somehow  a 
combination  of  both.  "I  don't  know  what 
to  call  it,"  Haila  says,  "but  it's  .iust  what 
they  needed.  Not  a  father — because,  after 
all,  they  have  their  own — but  more  per- 
haps a  warm  and  trusted  friend  who  repre- 
sents the  man's  point  of  view  in  our  home." 

For  eighteen-year-old  Robin,  who  is  in- 
volved in  choosing  a  college  and  a  field  of 
work  to  study,  this  has  meant  advice  and 
encouragement  in  what  she  wants  to  do. 


While  Robin's  final  sights  are  set  on 
harriage-and-children  for  her  career,  she 
hinks  that  a  girl  ought  to  have  the  ex- 
perience of  working  before  she  settles 
lown.  She  would  like  to  work  as  a  buyer 
>f  high  fashion  women's  apparel. 

"She  has  a  real  flair  and  feeling  for 
ashion,  which  I  would  say  she  inherits 
rom  her  mother,"  Whit  observes,  "and 
'.  think  she'd  be  an  excellent  buyer." 

"Of  course,  I've  told  her  the  same  thing," 
laila  laughs,  "but  it  didn't  seem  to  make 
luite  the  same  impression.  All  the  chil- 
Iren  have  this  great  respect  for  Whit's 
)pinion." 

With  fourteen-year-old  Christopher  and 
>ight-year-old  T.  J.,  Whit's  opinions  rank 
)articularly  high  in  the  field  of  sports. 
Vhit  has  a  great  interest  in  practically 
ivery  kind  of  sport,  and  especially  foot- 
lall,  which  he  played  at  school. 

Chris  plays  on  his  school's  first  team  in 
a  number  of  sports,  one  of  them  football. 
'In  fact,"  Whit  points  out  proudly,  "he  has 
played  several  positions  on  the  football 
team,  which  is  very  good." 

Whit  goes  to  the  school  games  when- 
ever he  can,  and  sometimes  offers  con- 
structive criticism,  which  is  always  wel- 
^come.  Besides  football,  they're  both  very 
interested   in  ice-hockey   and  ice-skating. 
There's    a    little    pond    near    the    country 
house,   where    they    did   a    good   deal   of 
skating   last   winter.    According   to    Chris, 
Whit  is  "the  best  skater  I've  ever  seen." 
Both  of  them  are  great  sports  fans,  of 
course,  and  spend  a  lot  of  time  watching 
games  on  television.  They  have  an  agree- 
ment that  each  one  has  to  choose  a  team 
to  root  for,   before   the   game   starts,   and 
■  the  same  thing  goes  for  boxing  matches. 
The    two    of    them    have    another    under- 
standing, too — an  unspoken  one — about  do- 
I  ing  things   together.   "We   have  a   sort  of 
,  mutual  thing,"  Whit  explains.  "Either  one 


is  kind  of  always  welcome  to  join  in  with 
the  other  in  any  activity." 

Family  life  in  the  Connor-Stoddard 
household  is  more  or  less  compressed  into 
the  weekend,  when  the  children  arrive 
from  school  and  Haila  and  Whit  come  out 
from  the  city  and  their  work.  As  Haila 
puts  it,  "It's  kind  of  like  a  bouillon  cube, 
with  everything  concentrated  in  one  small 
time  period." 

Actually,  Whit  goes  out  with  T.  J.  early 
on  Saturday  and  is  there  to  join  Robin  and 
Chris,  who  come  in  from  their  near-by 
boarding  schools  a  little  later.  Haila  ar- 
rives in  the  evening.  Since  she  has  to  stay 
in  town  till  late  Saturday  night,  her  time 
with  her  family  is  now  really  limited  to 
Sundays. 

"Sundays,"  she  says,  "aren't  a  day  of 
rest.  They're  a  day  of  change,  a  very  wel- 
come change."  Most  of  her  Sunday  is  spent 
in  the  kitchen  cooking,  which  is  "one  of 
my  great  passions  in  life."  She  is  an  ex- 
pert on  exotic  dishes  from  all  over  the 
world  and,  according  to  her  husband,  can 
compete  with  the  "best  of  the  best."  A 
typical  Sunday  culinary  session  might  find 
her  preparing  a  delicious  ragout  of  oxtail, 
a  Luxembourg  stew  with  veal,  beer  and 
ginger  snaps,  a  filet  of  sole  in  white  wine, 
or  coq  aw  vin.  Her  fame  as  a  cook  has, 
in  fact,  spread  far  beyond  her  own  family, 
so  that  Robin's  school  friends  are  eager 
for  invitations  to  visit  and  taste  some  of 
this  mom's  rare  food. 

Around  four  o'clock,  the  whole  family 
gets  together  for  Sunday  lunch,  which  is 
the  big  meal  of  the  day  and  the  time  for 
general  family  conversation,  stories  and 
discussions.  Then,  in  the  early  evening,  the 
children  start  on  their  way  back  to  school, 
and  Whit  and  Haila  settle  down  for  a 
quiet  evening  at  home —  "We  just  put  up 
our  feet  and  watch  television   and   talk." 

In  the  little  more  than  a  year  that  has 


passed  since  their  marriage,  both  Haila 
and  Whit  have  found  a  new  assurance  and 
creative  strength.  Haila  is  impulsive  and 
volatile,  while  Whit  is  more  conservative 
and  analytical.  For  them,  this  combination 
is   a  great   affirmative   source  of  security. 

Whit  says,  "It  means  for  me  a  steadier 
outlook  on  life,  a  much  greater  trust  in  the 
wisdom  of  what  I  do,  an  aliveness  and 
freshness.  And  it's  pretty  exciting  to  realize 
what  I  do  to  help  her  and  what  she  does 
to  help  me." 

Haila,  who  has  always  wasted  time  and 
energy  in  too  many  interests  and  too- 
quick  enthusiasms,  has  found  Whit's  in- 
sight and  judgment  helping  her  to  focus 
on  what  is  important — so  that  she  does  less, 
but  finds  that  more  projects  work  out 
successfully.  They  have  an  agreement  that, 
whenever  she  gets  a  new  idea,  she'll  talk 
it  out  with  him  right  away. 

"I'm  always  crazy  about  something — it 
might  be  a  play  to  produce  or  a  television 
idea — when  I  first  hear  about  it,"  Haila 
admits.  "I'll  rave  on  about  how  wonder- 
ful it  is.  Then,  a  few  days  later,  the  sec- 
ond thought  and  doubts  come  along.  By 
then,  in  the  old  days,  I  would  be  com- 
mitted and  it  would  be  too  late.  Now  I 
talk  everything  over  with  Whit  first.  I  let 
off  the  steam  to  him,  and  he  has  a  knack 
of  quietly  putting  his  finger  on  what 
counts." 

As  Whit  says,  "We  complement  each 
other  and  pull  together,"  and  this  works 
all  through  their  married  relationship. 
Whether  it  involves  sparking  each  other 
in  the  writing  of  a  script,  with  Whit  sup- 
plying the  structure  and  story  line  and 
Haila  contributing  the  character  material 
and  background,  or  pulling  together  in 
running  their  family  life,  Whit  and  Haila 
are  a  good  team. 

And,  judging  by  the  results  for  them, 
that's  the  secret  of  a  good  marriage. 


:..FOR  TODAY'S  LOOK 
OF  CASUAL  LOVELINESS 


In  case  you  haven't  noticed,  the  siren  is  "old  hat"  these  days.  No 

more  silly  attempts  to  look  sultry  in  shorts— or  cafe-society  in  an 

apron.  And  brisk  modem  living  has  ended  the  studied  effect  in 

make-up,  too.  Casual  loveliness  has  taken  its  place  .  .  .  the  fresh 

young  look  of  Campana's  Magic  Touch. 

This  modem  make-up  whisks  on  in  seconds,  with  fingertips.  Hides 
blemishes,  smooths  complexion,  adds  glorious  color.  But  more- 
its  creamy  richness  lubricates  and  protects  your  skin  all  day,  and 
ends  the  need  for  elaborate  bedtime  creamings. 
It's  the  easy  new  way  to  look  smart  and  fresh,  no  matter 
how  crowded  your  daily  schedule  is. 
Magic  Touch  ( such  a  perfect  name )  at  all  variety  stores 
'  and  better  dmg  stores.  6  shades— only  45^  or  $1.00. 

Hard  to  believe,  'til  you  look  in  your  mirror! 


The  Make-Up  of  Young  Moderns 


65 


The  Roots  We  Need 


(Continued  from  page  51) 
to  talk  to  you  like  that.   It's  just  that  I 
got  so  mad  at  that  Diane  today  and  when 
I  saw  you  .  .  .  the  show  and  everyone  in 
it  are  so  real  to  me.  .  ."  she  trailed  off. 

Leila  smiled.  "I  know.  To  me,  too.  And 
Diane  is  a  problem.  But  I  think  I  under- 
stand her.  She'll  be  all  right,  you'll  see. 
All  she  needs  is  the  love  and  security  of 
a  good  man.  .  .  .  And  now,  I  must  get  up- 
stairs to  my  baby." 

Reflecting  as  she  tucked  her  sixteen- 
month-old  daughter,  Juliet  Sara,  in  bed 
for  a  nap,  Leila  thought.  And  that  is  the 
answer.  Not  only  for  Diane  Emerson,  but 
for  any  woman.  A  good  man  and  this. 

For  Leila  Martin,  who  portrays  Diane 
Emerson  in  Valiant  Lady,  feels  that  way 
about  her  life.  True  values  and  balance 
came  with  marriage  and  motherhood.  Be- 
fore that,  Leila's  life  was  a  one-way  street 
— an  exciting  and  fascinating  one,  but 
limited.  Show  business. 

"It  isn't  that  now  I'm  less  serious  about 
my  career,"  Leila  explains  in  her  quiet, 
serious  way.  "I'm  just  as  intense  about  my 
work,  but  less  tense  about  it.  I  love  to  act, 
and  I  hope  I'm  giving  viewers  some  en- 
joyment. And  because  I'm  happy  continu- 
ing with  my  career,  I  feel  I'm  a  better 
wife  and  mother  than  I  would  be  if  I  gave 
it  up  and  was  miserable.  But,  at  the  same 
time,  my  husband  and  baby  have  given 
me  roots  I  needed.  I  feel  more  secure  and 
have  a  better  perspective  on  life  in  gen- 
eral." 

In  private  life,  Leila  is  the  wife  of 
Leonard  Green,  a  theatrical  agent,  who 
heads  Mercury  Artists  Corporation.  The 
Greens  and  their  toddler  live  in  a  modern 
apartment  on  East  54th  Street,  selected  so 
that  they  can  get  back  to  their  child  from 
their  professional  duties  in  a  few  minutes. 

However,  Leila  feels  their  convenient 
apartment  is  somewhat  temporary.  "By  the 
time  Juliet  is  old  enough  to  enter  school," 
she  said,  enthusiasm  lighting  up  her  solemn 
dark  eyes,  "both  Len  and  I  want  to  be 
settled  in  a  nice  spacious  home,  complete 
with  back  and  front  yards,  way  out  in 
Connecticut  somewhere.  We  want  her  to 
have  as  much  community  life  as  possible." 

Meantime,  Leila  sees  her  daily  routine  as 
being  similar  to  that  of  the  average  work- 
ing mother.  "Since  I  have  to  be  at  the 
studio  for  rehearsal  at  eight  in  the  morn- 
ing, Juliet  and  I  get  up  at  six-thirty.  We 
have  breakfast  together,  and  what  a  time 
we  have  over  her  cereal!  I'm  usually  back 
in  time  for  her  nap.  I  get  a  lot  done  then — 
like  studying  my  script  for  the  next  day, 
attending  to  household  duties  and  prepar- 
ing for  dinner.  When  Len  gets  home,  we 
play  with  Juliet  or  read  nursery  rhymes 
to  her  before  tucking  her  in  for  the  night. 
Then  Len  cues  me  with  my  script  and  we 
watch  television.  We  find  that  we  don't  go 
out  as  much  as  we  did  before  Juliet.  We 
do  go  to  the  theater  about  once  a  week, 
and  occasionally  we  entertain." 

About  the  upbringing  of  her  child,  Leila 
feels  that  Juliet  should  be  permitted  free- 
dom of  expression,  but — "you  can't  go  just 
by  the  book.  Already,  I  can  see  that  Juliet 
is  an  individual  in  her  own  right.  Within 
reason,  I  try  to  respect  her  likes  and 
dislikes." 

Yet  Leila  admits  it  would  be  a  matter  of 
concern    to    her    if    Juliet    were    inclined 
toward  an  early  theatrical  career.  "I  very 
definitely  would  want  her  to  finish  college 
before  committing  herself  to  a  career,"  she 
says  slowly.    "I  think  it's  important  to  un- 
T    derstand   yourself   and   the   world    around 
*    you,  before  you  get  involved  in  something 
■    so  all -absorbing  as  show  business  is,  par- 
ticularly." 

Leila's  career  had  its  start  in  a  brother- 
66 


sister  dancing-singing  act  with  her  older 
brother.  Buddy.  The  act  was  designed  and 
finished  by  Leila's  parents,  Irma  and  Sey- 
mour Martin. 

"The  act  was  a  lot  of  fun,"  Leila  recalls. 
"Our  home  in  Brooklyn  became  a  happy 
rehearsal  place.  We  entered  in  all  kinds 
of  talent  shows,  and  won  enough  wrist 
watches  to  open  a  store!  I  liked  perform- 
ing, but  I  also  liked  playing  handball  with 
the  kids  in  the  block  and  enjoyed  my 
school  studies.  I  wasn't  really  serious  about 
show  business  then." 

This  career  flair  for  singing  took  a 
serious  turn  when  Leila  was  a  sophomore 
in  high  school.  Her  glee-club  teacher  made 
a  discovery.  Leila  had  a  voice.  Not  just  a 
pretty,  sweet  one.  But  a  full,  rich,  big 
voice  that  was  amazing  for  such  a  slight 
girl.  The  music  teacher  urged  Leila  to 
give  the  gift  the  attention  it  deserved.  And, 
with  an  earnestness  that  has  never  left  her, 
Leila  began  studying  for  a  singing-acting 
career.  She  took  voice  lessons  and  en- 
rolled in  classes  at  Manhattan's  Dramatic 
Workshop.  To  pay  for  her  studies,  she 
worked  after  school  and  evenings  as  a 
stock  girl  in  a  department  store  and  at 
other  jobs. 

It  was  a  struggle,  keeping  up  with  her 
school  studies,  working,  and  doing  justice 
to  her  singing  and  acting  classes,  but  Leila 
soon  learned  that,  compared  with  other 
personal  sacrifices,  the  cramped  schedule 
was  inconsequential. 

Just  before  high  school  graduation, 
Leila  was  filled  with  excitement  and  an- 
ticipation over  the  school  varsity  play,  in 
which  she  had  a  good  part — and  also,  of 
course,  over  the  school  prom.  But  the 
Dramatic  Workshop  had  plans  of  its  own. 
It  decided  to  produce  the  musical,  "Of 
Thee  I  Sing,"  at  the  President  Theater,  and 
Leila  was  offered  the  lead.  She  was 
thrilled.  Her  first  chance  to  do  a  musical. 
Then  she  slowly  realized  that  the  per- 
formance dates  conflicted  with  both  the 
varsity  show  and  the  prom.  It  was  with  a 
new  heaviness  in  her  heart  that  she  phoned 
the  school  director  and  her  prom  date  that 
they  would  have  to  get  replacements.  There 
will  never  he  another  high  school  gradua- 
tion, she  thought  sadly. 

Leila's  performance  in  the  musical 
caught  the  interest  of  the  producer  of 
Crest  Summer  Theater  (Long  Beach,  Long 
Island) ,  who  sat  in  the  audience  one  night. 
He  sought  Leila  backstage. 

"I'm  going  to  open  the  summer  season 
with  'Lady  in  the  Dark,' "  he  informed 
her.  "How  would  you  like  to  be  in  it?  I've 
an  Equity  company  and  you'll  get  your 
Equity  card." 

"Would  I  like  it!"  exclaimed  Leila.  "Of 
course.  When  do  rehearsals  begin?"  And 
she  thought,  This  will  be  perfect.  It'll  give 
me  a  chance  to  save  more  money  for  col- 
lege in  the  fall,  too. 

But  the  tide  of  Leila's  life  had  turned 
in  another  direction — toward  Broadway. 
After  "Lady  in  the  Dark,"  Leila  stayed  on 
at  the  Crest  for  the  next  play,  "Happy 
Journey" — her  first  straight-  acting  role. 
Following  this  play,  an  amazing  thing  hap- 
pened. She  was  offered  the  job  as  under- 
study to  the  leading  feminine  role  in 
Michael  Todd's  Broadway  production  of 
the  musical,  "Peep  Show."  This  was  a 
tremendous    opportunity    for    a    fledgling 


Watch  for 

JULY  TV  RADIO  MIRROR 


on  sole  June  6 


seventeen-year-old  actress.  But  again  it 
meant  giving  up  something  else  she  wanted 
very  much — to  go  to  college.  Perhaps  after 
this  show,  she  thought.  But  the  die  was 
cast.  Broadway  took  to  Leila  and,  in  turn, 
Leila   gave   it  her   full   attention. 

Not  only  was  "Peep  Show"  a  big  hit.  It 
gave  Leila  the  opportunity  to  step  into  the 
top  feminine  role  for  two  periods  during 
the  run — once  for  eight  performances,  the 
next  time,  for  fourteen.  The  critics  agreed, 
that  this  newcomer  had  a  "wonderful"- 
voice. 

The  show  was  the  first  of  several  Broad- 
way musical  hits  for  Leila,  and  each  suc- 
cessive one  brousht  her  more  recognition. 
Her  next  show,  "Two  on  the  Aisle,"  star- 
ring Bert  Lahr,  featured  Leila  in  the  sing- 
ing number,  "Everlasting."  Next,  Leila 
was  the  Bronx  girl,  Gussie,  in  "Wish  You 
Were  Here."  Fellow  actors  nicknamed 
Leila  "Lucky"  Martin  because  of  the  way 
she  stepped  into  one  hit  after  another. 

Leila,  too,  felt  that  things  were  going 
nicely.  Her  brother.  Bud,  had  returned 
from  service  with  the  Army  in  Korea  and 
he  was  also  singing  in  "Wish  You  Were 
Here."  She  was  busy  and  absorbed  in  her 
career. 

Only  during  her  daily  subway  commut- 
ing, from  her  home  in  Brooklyn,  did  Leila 
have  time  to  gather  her  thoughts.  Often  she 
spent  the  ride  reading  books  on  every  sub- 
ject, in  an  attempt  to  make  up  a  little  for 
not  going  to  college.  At  times,  her  thoughts 
strayed  to  how  she  would  like  to  prepare 
for  an  operatic  career.  I  can't  give  the 
time  needed  to  study  operatic  arias  and 
languages  now,  she'd  dismiss  the  inter- 
mittent thought,  but  maybe  someday.  Love 
and  marriage  were  far  from  her  mind, 
that  spring  of  1953 — until  she  met  Leonard 
Green. 

They  met  at  a  party  Leonard  was  host- 
ing for  his  friends  in  the  theater  and  in 
allied  fields.  Leila  was  impressed  with  his 
charm  and  warmth.  They  made  a  dinner 
date  for  the  next  night  after  the  show  and, 
from  then  on,  Leonard  tried  to  date  Leila 
every  night.  Leila,  to  her  surprise,  found 
that  she  wanted  to  see  Leonard  every 
night,  too.  She  had  never  felt  that  way 
about  any  man.  Soon  she  realized  she  was 
in  love,  and  everything  was  wonderful — 
until  serious  marriage  plans  were  dis- 
cussed. Leonard  felt  that  one  career — his — 
was  enough  for  a  family.  Leila  thought 
his  notion  unfair.  They  separated — for 
a  week. 

In  that  week,  Leila  was  miserable  and 
faced  up  to  important  terms  with  herself. 
She  realized  that,  first  of  all,  she  was  a 
woman  who  had  found  love.  Her  career 
was  important.  But  Leonard  was  more 
important. 

Gathering  all  her  courage,  she  phoned 
Leonard  and  quietly  told  him  she  would 
give  up  her  career,  if  he  wanted.  He,  too, 
had  learned  in  that  never-passing  week 
that  life  is  not  made  up  of  cut-and-dried 
rules.  "Do  anything  you  want,"  he  happily 
assured  her,  "just  marry  me." 

And  it  was  on  this  happy  note,  with  both 
compromising  and  giving  in,  that  Leila  and 
Leonard  were  married  on  Christmas  Eve 
of  1953.  After  two  weeks  in  Cuba,  they 
settled  in  Leonard's  Manhattan  apartment. 
And  Leila  continued  to  make  discoveries 
about  herself.  She  found  that  she  liked  be- 
ing a  homemaker  and  develoned  an  in- 
terest in  home  decorating  and  furniture. 
When  they  decided  to  move  to  another 
apartment,  Leila  enjoyed  herself  immense- 
ly in  choosing  the  color  scheme  and  select- 
ing new  bits  of  furniture.  She  also  learned 
that  cooking  was  fun,  if  at  times  exas- 
perating. 

Most  of  all,  she  found  that  being  mar- 


ried  to  Leonard  meant  living  a  more  bal- 
anced life.  "Len  insisted  on  days  of  com- 
jlete  relaxation  whenever  our  schedules 
jermitted.  We  went  to  the  country  on 
veekends,  spending  them  playing  tennis 
ind  swimming  or  just  walking.  I  mingled 
nore  with  people.  Leonard  loves  to  be 
urith  people.  And  this  is  good  for  me,  since 
?m  inclined  to  want  to  be  by  myself  too 
much." 

Meanwhile,  Leila's  career  continued  to 
blossom.  Shortly  after  Jier  marriage,  Leila 
won  the  feminine  lead  role  in  a  new  musi- 
cal, "Dolly."  The  show  played  its  pre- 
Broadway  engagement  in  Atlanta,  Georgia. 
Leila  got  good  notices.  The  show  didn't. 
It  never  reached  Broadway. 

Leila  felt  that  "Dolly"  had  given  her  the 
biggest  thrill — and  the  deepest  disappoint- 
ment— of  her  career.  But  she  didn't  have 
time  to  dwell  on  this.  She  won  her  first 
daily  TV  role,  the  part  of  Juliet  Goodwin, 
the  singer-heroine  in  the  daytime  series, 
Golden  Windows.  For  Leila,  it  was  a  first 
experience  in  daytime  television  and  she 
found  it  much  to  her  liking,  fitting  in 
so  well  with  her  home  duties.  When  the 
series  went  off  the  air  after  nine  months 
it  was  just  as  well  for  Leila — little  Juliet 
was  found  to  be  well  on  the  way.  And 
though  the  very  next  day  Leila  started  re- 
hearsals for  the  role  of  Sarah  Brown  in  the 
City  Center  revival  of  "Guys  and  Dolls," 
the  engagement,  fortunately,  was  for  the 
limited  run  of  a  month. 

The  Greens  moved  to  a  larger  apart- 
ment— their  present  dwelling  on  East 
54th — and  Leila  again  gave  vent  to  her 
newly-found  love  of  setting  up  a  home. 
The  apartment  is  an  interesting  mixture 
of  antiques  and  moderns.  Their  gold  mod- 
ern living-room  suite  is  set  off  with  such 
items  as  antique  Italian  lamps  and  French 
desks  and  tables.  "When  it  comes  to  acces- 
sories, we  like  antiques,"  is  the  way  Leila 


puts  it,  "but  when  it  comes  to  something 
that  has  to  be  used  a  lot,  such  as  a  sofa, 
we  want  it  comfortable  and  modem." 

With  the  arrival  of  Juliet,  Leila  cur- 
tailed her  professional  activities,  in  order 
to  spend  more  time  at  home  during  Juliet's 
first  year.  "It  was  well  worth  the  lull," 
she  recalls.  "Having  a  baby  is  probably 
the  most  wonderful  experience  a  woman 
can  have." 

Her  first  return  venture  in  the  theater 
was  the  Broadway  dramatic  production  of 
"The  Best  House  in  Naples"  early  this  past 
season.  Then,  when  she  heard  that  Valiant 
Lady  was  looking  for  a  Diane  Emerson — 
not  in  the  show  during  a  one-year  stay  in 
Europe — she  eagerly  auditioned  for  it. 
Everyone  agreed  that  Leila  would  be  ideal 
for  the  role.  It  was  a  case  of  her  growth  as 
a  person,  in  the  last  several  years,  paying 
off.  For  the  director  felt  that  Leila  was 
"mature  enough  to  see  the  immaturity  of 
Diane  .  .  .  and  had  the  skill  to  portray 
the  role  effectively." 

"I  also  like  playing  Diane,"  Leila  ex- 
f)lains,  "because  a  daily  series  gives  you  a 
chance  to  really  develop  a  character.  I  think 
that's  why  daytime  serials  continue  year 
after  year.  The  actors  really  become  the 
characters  they  are  playing,  and  the  view- 
ers begin  to  believe  in  them  as  real  people. 
The  neighbor  in  my  building,  who  was  so 
worked  up  about  developments  in  the 
Emerson  family,  is  an  example  of  what 
I  mean." 

Her  husband  Leonard  watches  Leila  on 
the  screen,  but  Juliet  is  permitted  to  do 
so  only  when  the  scene  of  the  day  is  fairly 
quiet.  "I  learned,  the  hard  way,  to  censor 
the  show  as  far  as  Juliet  is  concerned," 
Leila  smiles.  "She  used  to  see  it  every 
day.  One  day,  Diane  was  hysterical  in  the 
show.  Juliet  got  upset  and  cried  for  an 
hour,  calling  'Mama!  Mama!'  " 

Leonard,   too,   sometimes  has  a  difficult 


time  remaining  objective,  in  watching  the 
show.  For  example,  there  was  the  day  he 
invited  his  whole  office  crew  to  come  into 
the  office  to  see  Leila.  "That's  my  wife," 
he  told  everyone  proudly.  And,  as  if  to 
mock  him,  the  girl  on  the  screen  was 
soundly  kissed  by  a  man.  Everyone  laughed. 

"I  felt  funny,"  Leonard  admits.  "It 
wasn't  that  I  was  jealous.  I  can't  explain 
it — just  a  funny  feeling.  Just  like  when 
Leila  was  playing  in  'Guys  and  Dolls' 
and,  in  one  scene,  she  had  to  be  carried 
off  in  a  seemingly  rough  way.  Leila  was 
expecting  Juliet.  I  knew  that  she  wasn't 
really  being  handled  roughly — that  the 
technique  just  made  it  seem  that  way.  But, 
just  the  same,  every  time  I  saw  that  scene, 
I  felt  funny  and  had  to  stifle  an  impulse  to 
call  out,  'Hey,  stop  that!  She's  my  wife 
and  she's  pregnant.' " 

Any  qualms  Leonard  may  have  had 
about  marrying  an  actress  are  now  quieted 
by  Leila's  obviously  serious  attitude  to- 
ward her  marriage  and  home.  "It's  not  that 
I  have  anything  against  actors,"  Leonard 
says  in  his  quick  way.  "I  love  them,  and 
they  are  my  business.  But,  too  often,  I've 
seen  marriages  attempt  to  conform  to  the 
career — with  disastrous  results.  I  believe 
that  a  career  should  conform  to  marriage." 

He  feels  that  Leila  is  truly  an  artist  with 
a  magnificent  voice.  To  this,  Leila  replies, 
"I've  a  wonderful  husband.  ...  As  for  fu- 
ture career  plans,  who  knows?  I  recently 
finished  the  first  of  a  projected  new  televi- 
sion series  called  House  On  89th  Street,  in 
which  I  act  and  sing  with  some  very  real 
puppets.  And  maybe,  someday,  I'll  de- 
vote myself  to  opera  arias,  as  I've  always 
wanted  to  do.  Who  knows?  All  I  know 
now  is  that  life  is  very  good.  I'm  very 
thankful  for  Leonard  and  Juliet — and  for 
Diane  Emerson,  who  makes  it  possible  for 
me  to  continue  my  career  without  disrupt- 
ing too  much  my  role  as  a  homemaker." 


'V\/&^d.e:£ful  xiew Aizicf  of  sliampoo  • 


r  1 


^uticuraj 


C 


OuOLlMik^/ 


% 


You'll  say  Cuticura  Squeeze-Bottle  Shampoo  is  a  girl's  best 
friend  when  you  see  how  gloriously  your  hair  twinkles  .  .  . 
how  enchantingly  smooth  it  is  .  .  .  how  easy  to  manage. 

Better  than  soap  shampoo  —  better  than  soapless 
shampoo —  combines  the  best  features  of  both! 

Cuticura  Squeeze-Bottle  Shampoo  is  that  "cosmetic  ideal" 
research  chemists  have  long  been  striving  for— a  perfectly  bal- 
anced combination  formula  that  cleanses,  glamorizes  and  con- 
ditions better  than  either  a  soap  or  a  soapless  shampoo  alone  can 
possibly  do.  It  protects  the  natural  oils— needs  no  special  rinse. 

No  waste-no  spill-no  brea((age! 

You  shampoo  faster— use  only  half 

as  much.  Ideal  for  the  shower— for         .     ' 

all  the  family.  6  oz.  TQ^*.  No  tax. 

Send  10<  (no  stamps )  to  cover  mailing 
for  travel  size  Cuticura  Soap  and  Squeeze 
Bottle  Shampoo.  Address  Cuticura, 
Dept.  TS-76,    Maiden  48,  Mass. 

Cuticura  shampoo 


Y  CARTIER  FURS  BY   REVrLLON   FRERES  COMPLEXION  BY  CUTICURA 


67 


The  Charming  Lady  Williams 


(Continued  from  page  24) 
wife  of  newspaperman  Max  Canfield,  in 
The  Brighter  Day.  A  woman  who  faces  up 
to  life,  without  wincing.  Murial  was  talk- 
ing about  this  woman,  about  her  appeal 
and  her  courage,  before  she  went  on  to 
talk  about  her  own  life  as  a  young  wife 
and  widow,  as  an  actress  and  fashion 
model,  as  teacher  of  models  and  pro- 
ducer of  fashion  shows,  and  as  a  TV  star. 

"Lydia  and  I  have  several  things  in  com- 
mon," Murial  said.  "She  comes  from  Bos- 
ton, which  was  my  husband's  home,  and 
where  I  lived,  too,  for  many  years.  We 
both  lost  our  husbands,  but  Lydia  has  re- 
married, after  a  long  series  of  personal 
frustrations  which  might  have  downed  a 
woman  less  brave.  Now  her  new  mar- 
riage has  brought  new  problems  into  her 
life,  but  she  is  not  one  of  those  complain- 
ing, whining,  bitter  wives.  She  has  built 
up  tremendous  inner  resources.  She  has 
outer  charm  and  inner  strength,  and  each 
comolements  the  other. 

"That's  what  makes  Lydia  so  real," 
Murial  went  on.  "Like  the  rest  of  us,  she 
can't  be  happy  and  gay  all  the  time. 
Don't  we  all  have  our  moods,  our  days 
of  being  sweet  and  charming,  our  days 
when  we  get  upset  over  small  and  big 
problems,  get  impatient  with  ourselves 
and  with  others?  Don't  all  women  have 
moments  of  sophistication,  when  they  be- 
have like  mature  human  beings,  and  mo- 
ments of  childish  angers  and  anxieties? 
Lydia  is  that  kind  of  woman.  It  gives  her 
dimension. 

"Herb  Nelson — a  highly  intelligent  actor 
and  solid  sort  of  person,  who  plays  Lydia's 
husband  Max — feels  the  way  I  do  about 
both  these  people.  Max  has  dimension, 
too.  The  story  has  dimension,  and  truth, 
as  do  all  the  people  in  it.  We're  a  con- 
genial group — the  actors,  producer  Terry 
Lewis,  director  Del  Hushes.  We  lovr 
what  we're  doing,  and  we  get  along  well 
off  the  set  as  well  as  on." 

JLjke  Lvdia,  Murial  learned  to  face  re- 
ality fairly  early.  She  sometimes  quotes 
a  friend's  remark:  "All  actors  and  actresses 
believe  in  fairy  godmothers  who  will 
come  and  wave  a  wand,  to  confer  on  them 
the  best  parts  and  the  greatest  success." 
Long  ago,  Murial  discovered  that  any 
wand-waving  wou^d  have  to  be  strictly  of 
her  own  doing,  although  she  is  not  at  all 
sure  that  it's  only  actors  who  rely  on  fairy 
godmothers.  "I  learned  about  that  when 
I  was  coaching  young  girls  in  modeling. 
They  would  want  so  much  to  work,  and 
would  sometimes  do  so  little  about  im- 
proving themselves." 

Murial  was  bom  in  New  Hampshire,  of 
a  non-acting  family  which  settled  in  Bos- 
ton when  she  was  quite  young,  and  she 
belongs  to  that  group  of  actors  who  got 
thpir  training  mostlv  in  practical  work. 
Later  on,  when  producers  and  managers 
asked  her  where  she  had  studied,  she  was 
reluctant  to  admit  that,  instead  of  at- 
tending classes,  she  had  actually  been  in 
show  business  since  she  was  seventeen. 

Finishing  her  schooling  at  a   "finishing 
school"   in  Fairfax,   Virginia,   Murial   was 
already   well   on   her   way    as    an    actress 
when  she  met  and  married  Francis  Hart, 
a    Boston    banker    and    businessman    who 
also   had   a  passion  for   the   theater,   and 
talent    for   it,    and    was   always    torn    be- 
tween the  two  worlds.   They   spent  their 
summers     on     Cape     Cod,     where     both 
worked  with  the  Cape  Cod  Playhouse  in 
T    Dennis — Fran  Hart  as  its  publicity  repre- 
V    sentative,    and    Richard    Aldrich,    Fran's 
R    friend   from   schooldays,   as   its   producer. 
Later,  Fran  became  president  and  treasurer. 

During   the  first  summer   of   her   mar- 
bo 


riage,  the  "honeymoon  summer,"  Murial 
had  to  remember  everything  she  had  ever 
learned  about  charm  and  glamour,  and 
those  additional  resources  of  strength  and 
humor.  Francis  Hart  had  two  children 
by  a  former  marriage,  a  daughter  Burmy 
(Fredericka)  and  a  son  Russ.  "I  was  get- 
ting used  to  my  new  life  and  my  new 
responsibilities,"  Murial  recalls,  "and  the 
children  were  getting  used  to  me.  The 
man  who  worked  for  us  at  the  house 
that  summer,  broke  his  leg  the  second 
day  we  were  there,  and  was  laid  up  a 
long  time.  Dick  Aldrich  was  staying  with 
us  that  season,  along  with  a  couple  of 
young  men  apprentices.  We  had  a  large 
house,  and  the  greats  of  the  theater  who 
came  to  the  Cape  were  in  and  out  of  our 
home,  welcome  guests.  Ethel  Barrymore, 
Bette  Davis,  David  Niven,  scores  of  others. 
We  had  little  parties  after  the  perform- 
ances. There  was  rarely  a  quiet  moment. 
It  was  exciting,  stimulating,  wonderful — 
but  just  a  little  like  living  in  Grand  Cen- 
tral Station  for  a  young  girl  unused  to  it." 
As  the  seasons  went  on  and  Murial  got 
to  know  Gertrude  Lawrence,  Dick  Aid- 
rich's  wife,  and  to  work  with  her  in 
several  plays,  she  found  out  more  about 
this  thing  called  charm.  "She  was  one 
of  the  first  women  I  knew  to  impress  me 
so  forcibly  with  the  fact  that  a  woman  is 
first  a  woman,  and  then  she  is  anything 
else  she  wants  to  be. 

"On  the  stage,  of  course,"  Murial  con- 
tinues, "she  was  the  brilliant  actress  who 
concentrated  completely  on  her  work  and 
gave  the  very  best  in  her.  During  re- 
hearsals, she  would  help  me  tremendously, 
teach  me  how  to  get  comedy  out  of  a  line, 
for  instance,  at  which  she  was  so  wonder- 
ful. She  was  generous  in  our  scenes  to- 
gether, helped  me  with  clothes.  It  was  in- 
stinctive with  her,  however,  to  play  her 
own  part  with  everything  she  had.  I 
knew  that,  once  on  a  stage  with  her,  she 
was  saying,  figuratively:  Now  I  have  done 
everything  for  you  that  I  could,  and  you 
are  on  your  own.  I  have  thought  of  that 
often  since,  when  I  have  tried  to  help  and 
advise  girls  studying  to  be  models.  You 
can  tell  a  girl  everything  you  have  learned, 
and  then  it  is  up  to  her." 

Murial  had  always  done  some  modeling, 
along  with  her  theater  work,  and  she  has 
a  model's  figure  today — five  feet,  five-and- 
a-half  inches,  115  pounds,  graceful  car- 
riage. During  her  marriage  to  Fran, 
they  both  became  interested  in  starting  a 
model  agency  with  a  friend,  Mildred  Al- 
bert, who  already  had  a  school  in  Boston 
in  which  Murial  was  teaching.  It's  still  in 
existence,  with  Mildred  and  Phillip  Brown 
as  her  partners  and  Murial  speaks  fondly 
of  the  "Hart  models,"  many  of  them  girls 
she  has  helped  train.  The  business  is 
known  officially  as  Promotions,  Inc.,  but 
is  more  colloauially  referred  to  as  the 
"Hart  Agency." 

"For  five  years,  we  produced  the  huge 
Boston  Herald  annual  fashion  show,  which 
required  months  of  preparation.  We  be- 
gan the  idea,  in  Boston,  of  fashion -show 
luncheons  for  the  big  department  stores. 
I  not  only  trained  models,  organized  shows 
and  chose  wardrobes  and  accessories,  but 
I  did  loads  of  fashion  commentary." 

After  Francis  Hart  passed  on,  in  1950, 
Murial  began  to  think  about  devoting 
more  time  to  acting.  She  went  on  tour  in 
"Autumn  Garden,"  with  Fredric  March, 
playing  in  seventeen  major  cities.  More 
recently,  she  was  in  "Heaven  Can  Wait," 
co-starring  with   Steve   Cochran. 

The  great  challenge,  however,  was  tele- 
vision. The  first  TV  dramatic  roles,  and 
then  the  opportunity  to  do  big-time  com- 
mercials:   "I   was    new    to    television    and 


new  to  this  kind  of  'selling,'  "  Murial  points 
out,  "but  everything  I  had  learned  as 
a  model — and  especially  as  a  commentator 
for  hundreds  of  fashion  shows — was  there, 
inside,  to  help  me.  I  was  learning  to  take 
my  own  advice,  the  advice  I  had  been 
handing  out  to  other  girls,  but  I  had  the 
advantage  of  knowing  it  had  worked  for 
them  and  could  for  me,  too.  Knowing  this 
it  gave  me  courage.  And  poise,  and  author- 
ity. Every  girl  should  learn — early,  if 
possible — that  every  bit  of  experience  she 
gets,  whether  she  welcomes  it  or  not  and 
whether  it  ties  in  immediately  with  what 
she  wants,  will  some  day  help  her  with 
some  other  thing  that  she  wants." 

JMurial  learned  a  great  many  things 
about  girls  who  want  to  be  models,  and 
girls  in  general.  All  want  to  improve 
themselves,  but  not  all  are  willing  to  work 
for  it.  Even  the  shyest,  most  timid,  have 
many  preconceived  ideas  about  them- 
selves, that  are  difficult  to  change  until 
the  girl  herself  wants  to  change  them. 
It  was  hard  to  teach  some  girls  to  walk 
with  head  up,  so  the  world  could  see  them 
and  they  could  see  the  world.  It  was 
difficult  to  suggest  changes  in  hairdress- 
ing,  when  the  answer  came,  "But  I  like 
it  this  way." 

"Many  girls  want  to  'make  it,'  in  model- 
ing, in  business,  socially,  but  on  their  own 
terms,"  Murial  reflects.  "Many  can,  but 
most  of  us  cannot.  When  girls  complained 
to  me  that  another  girl  was  getting  all  the 
iobs,  I  would  ask  them  to  analyze  why. 
Were  they  doing  the  best  they  knew  how, 
about  their  hair,  their  grooming,  their 
clothes?  Were  they  making  the  rounds, 
showing  themselves  available  for  jobs?  It 
has  always  seemed  sensible  to  me  to  look 
at  some  other  woman  whom  you  admire 
— often  a  movie  or  television  star — not 
with  envy,  but  with  a  desire  to  find  out 
why  she  is  so  lovely,  why  her  clothes  seem 
so  right  for  her,  what  there  is  in  her 
voice  and  her  manner  that  gave  her  charm 
and  glamour.  What  there  is  in  her  life, 
and  her  background,  to  bring  out  these 
qualities." 

In  her  own  case,  when  the  producers  of 
The  Brighter  Day  were  seeking  an  actress 
who  had  certain  special  qualities  for  Lydia, 
they  discovered  them  in  Murial  through 
television.  By  that  time,  she  was  well 
known  in  the  new  medium,  and  had  volun- 
teered to  help,  on  a  Sunday  off,  by  ap- 
pearing on  a  telethon  to  raise  funds  for 
arthritis  research.  Del  Hughes,  director 
of  The  Brighter  Day,  with  whom  she  had 
worked  three  years  before  in  the  "Autumn 
Garden"  company,  tuned  in  the  telethon 
that  Sunday  Morning. 

"There's  Murial  Williams,"  he  said,  and 
remembered  her  fine  performance  in  the 
play.  Watching  her  interview  patients,  he 
suddenly  realized  that  there  was  the  girl 
who  had  the  qualities  they  had  been  try- 
ing to  find.  He  called  the  producer  and  a 
date  was  set  for  Murial  to  read  for  the  part. 
That  was  more  than  two  years  ago.  In- 
teresting, satisfying  years  in  many  ways. 

Murial's  stepchildren,  Russ  and  Bu^ny, 
are  now  grown  up.  "Still  very  much  a 
part  of  my  life,"  she  says.  A  bachelor  girl 
since  the  death  of  her  husband.  Murial 
thinks  of  the  married  state  as  the  hap- 
piest one  for  a  woman:  "I  would  like  to 
marry  again,  if  it's  right."  Meanwhile, 
she's  finding  contentment  at  home,  com- 
panionship with  friends,  and  is  watched 
over    fondly    by    a    huge    French    poodle. 

Two  charming  women  in  one  person: 
Lvdia  Canfield  of  The  Brighter  Day— and 
Murial  Williams,  who  has  developed  the 
charm  and  courage  and  femininity  to  lead 
both  their  lives. 


! 


(Continued  from  page  37) 
ivas  accomplished — in  the  bank  where  Else 
was  working — it  was  not  an  auspicious  be- 
{inning. 

"I  was  a  little  wild,"  Guy  laughs.  "I 
vas  champing  at  the  bit  a  little,  so  she 
cind  of  balked  at  first.  A  couple  of  days 
ater,  though,  I  called  and  persuaded  her 
X)  come  to  the  club  for  dinner.  Later,  we 
vent  dancing.  A  few  days  after  that,  my 
mgagement  ended  and  I  was  obliged  to  go 
jack  to  Los  Angeles.  Then  I  went  back 
ip  to  Vancouver.  By  this  time,  she  knew 
'.  really  cared  for  her.  That  it  wasn't  a 
ark.    I  wasn't  wild — except  wild  in  love. 

"This  time,  we  made  plans  to  be  togeth- 
er. I  was  working  around  L.A.,  getting 
>dd  jobs  on  radio  and  TV  and  in  night 
clubs.  Else,  it  developed,  had  an  aunt 
there,  so  she  came  down,  stayed  with  her 
aunt,  and  we  saw  a  lot  of  each  other.  By 
now,  we  knew  we  really  cared  for  each 
other.  Then  I  had  to  play  a  job  in  Kan- 
sas City,  another  in  New  Orleans.  The 
'parting  was  rough.  By  the  time  I  got  to 
New  Orleans,  I  was  missing  her  so  badly 
I  wrote  for  her  to  come.  At  the  moment, 
I  had  only  two  thousand  dollars  in  the 
bank,  and  very  few  singing  dates  on  the 
books.  But,  as  I  wrote  Else,  'Some  peo- 
ple start  off  worse — no  money  in  the  bank. 
Let's  just  get  married  and  pray  to  God  to 
watch  over  us.'  So  we  did.  And  so  He 
did,"  Guy  adds  soberly. 

"By  the  way,  I'd  like  to  set  straight  one 
misconception  concerning  Else.  When  we 
got  married,  one  of  the  newspapers  put 
in  that  Else  was  a  beauty  contest  winner. 
'Miss  Sweden,'  I  think  they  said.  Or  may- 
be it  was  'Miss  Denmark.'  Another  paper 
headlined:  'Guy  Mitchell  Marries  Night 
Club  Entertainer.' 


Knee-Deep  in  Success 

"No,  sir,  no,  ma'am!  Being  in  night 
clubs  so  much,  traveling  so  much,  what 
would  I  want  with  a  wife  who'd  greet  me 
at  the  door  with  'Let's  go  out'?  My  idea 
of  the  way  married  life  should  be  is  to 
come  home,  find  dinner  ready  and  wait- 
ing, kick  off  the  shoes,  put  on  the  jeans, 
lie  on  the  floor  after  dinner  and  watch  TV, 
while  my  wife  sits  by,  sewing.  And  that's 
the  way  it  is,  for  Else  and  me. 

"Here  in  New  York,"  Guy  explains,  "we 
have  a  little  hotel  apartment — kitchenette, 
bedroom  and  bath — as  a  base,  for  the  time 
being.  Else  does  the  cooking.  Now  and 
again,  I'll  cook  up  something.  I'm  good  at 
making  things  appetizing,  which  seems  to 
surprise  people.  I  like  to  fool  around  with 
herbs  and  spices,  make  sauces  and  gravies. 
After  dinner,  we  watch  TV.  During  the 
commercials,  I  do  set-ups  on  the  floor. 
Else  sits  by,  sewing.  She's  good  at  sew- 
ing. Makes  my  shirts,  most  of  her  own 
clothes.  I  bought  her  a  sewing  machine 
for  a  wedding  present.  Whenever  there's 
time,  my  wife  and  I  go  riding.  I  like  read- 
ing, too.  So  does  Else.  She  likes  any- 
thing I  like.  The  husband  who  can  say 
the  same  of  his  wife  is  blessed  among 
men,  as  I  sure  am. 

"We  had  an  awful  start,  though.  I  tell 
you!  The  day  Else  arrived  in  New  Or- 
leans, we  drove — along  with  Marty  Horst- 
man,  my  road  manager — to  Bay  St.  Louis 
in  Mississippi,  where  you  don't  have  to 
wait  to  say  the  'I  do's.'  It  was  hot  and  the 
bugs  were  hitting  the  windshield.  When 
they  missed  the  windshield,  they  hit  us. 
Else  wore  a  pretty  pink  suit  and  a  pink 
hat.  But  no  flowers.  They'd  have  wilted. 
Her  wedding  ring  is  a  diamond  band  (kind 
of  small  diamonds)  between  two  thin  gold 
bands.     Sort   of   does   double   duty   as   an 


engagement  and  wedding  ring.  The  ring 
is  proof,  I  always  say,  that  I  only  had  a 
couple  of  thou'  in  the  bank. 

"After  the  justice  of  the  peace  pro- 
nounced us  man  and  wife,"  he  recalls,  "we 
drove  back  to  the  Safari,  in  New  Orleans, 
where  I  was  singing.  I  did  three  shows 
that  night,  worked  until  two  in  the  morn- 
ing. Then  the  people  who  run  the  Safari 
— real  nice  people — had  a  cake  for  us.  So, 
about  2:30  A.M.,  we  went  back  home  to 
the  hotel  with  a  piece  of  the  cake,  cham- 
pagne for  Else  and  soda  water  for  me,  and 
got  the  marriage  off  to  a  flying  start.  In 
fact,  at  six  A.M.,  we  were  flying  to  Atlan- 
ta, Georgia,  where  I  had  a  singing  date! 
Outside  the  windows  of  our  hotel  suite  in 
Atlanta,  there  was  a  great  big  water 
cooler  with  a  regular  cascade  of  a  drip. 
'Couldn't  take  you  to  Niagara,'  I  told  my 
bride,  'but  look — listen — I  arranged  for 
the  Falls!' 

"Next  morning,  the  phone  rang.  How 
can  the  ring  of  a  phone  that  is  to  change 
a  man's  life  sound  like  any  commonplace, 
everyday  ring?"  Guy  wonders.  "But  it 
can.  This  one  did.  It  was  Mike  King, 
Columbia  Records  distributor  in  Atlanta, 
calling  to  ask  Marty  and  me  to  listen  to  a 
tune  called  'Singing  the  Blues.'  We  lis- 
tened. We  liked  it.  In  New  York,  the 
next  day,  we  cut  it.  Even  before  we  cut 
it,  we  knew — we  really  did — that  it  would 
be  a  hit.  You  can  be  wrong,  of  course — as 
I  have  been,  more  than  once.  But  this 
time,  yes,  I  knew.  Instinct,  perhaps.  A 
hunch.   A  whisper  in  the  ear." 

In  spite  of  all  this,  Guy  felt  "kind  of 
funny"  about  recording  a  tune  Marty 
Robbins  had  recorded  before  him,  also 
for  Columbia  Records.  But  Robbins — as 
Mitch  MUler,  boss  man  of  Columbia  Rec- 


NOW!     EASIER.    SURER    PROTECTION 
FOR    YOUR     MOST     INTIMATE     MARRIAGE     PROBLEM 

Tested  by  doctors  .     .  proved  in  hospital  clinics 


1.  Antiseptic  {Protective,  germicidal  action) 
Norforms  are  safer  and.  surer  than  ever!  A 
highly  perfected  new  formula  releases  anti- 
septic and  germicidal  ingredients  right  in 
the  vaginal  tract.  The  exclusive  new  base 
melts  at  body  temperature,  forming  a  pow- 
erful protective  film  that  permits  long- 
lasting  action.  Will  not  harm  delicate  tissues. 

2.  Deodorant  {Protection  from  odor)  Nor- 
forms were  tested  in  a  hospital  clinic  and 
found  to  be  more  effective  than  anything 


it  had  ever  used.  Norforms  are  deodorant — 
they  eliminate  (rather  than  cover  up)  embar- 
rassing odors,  yet  have  no  "medicine"  or 
"disinfectant"  odor  themselves. 

3.  Convenient  {So  easy  to  use)  Norforms 
are  small  vaginal  suppositories,  so  easy  and 
convenient  to  use.  Just  insert — no  appara- 
tus, mixing  or  measuring.  They're  grease- 
less  and  they  keep  in  any  climate.  Your 
druggist  has  them  in  boxes  of  12  and  24. 
Also  available  in  Canada. 


^^^■^^^^  A  HOIVWICH  PJtOOUCT 

Tested  by  doctors  •  Trusted  by  women 

FREE  infonnafive  Norforms  booklet 

Mail  coupon  to:  Dept.  RT-76,  Norwich 
Pharmacal  Co.,  Norwich,  N.  Y.  Send 
Norforms  booklet,  in  a  plain  envelope. 


Utrl-rt 

(pLEASt  print) 

T 

V 

r.;ty 

Zonp               State 

R 

69 


ords,  pointed  out — is  on  a  different  part  of 
the  label,  has  a  different  audience.  Coun- 
try-and-Western  disc  jockeys  play  Rob- 
bins'  version,  whereas  Guy's  would  have 
a  more  universal  appeal.  It  was  a  proph- 
ecy which  has  come  more  than  true.  In 
the  States,  Guy's  recording  has  sold  more 
than  two  million  copies.  In  Canada,  more 
than  a  hundred  thousand — as  the  result  of 
which  our  Mr.  Mitchell  is  the  first  Amer- 
ican artist  ever  to  be  given  a  "gold  rec- 
ord" in  Canada.  In  England,  where  Mit- 
chell fans  are  legion  and  loyal,  it  is  going 
strong. 

So  it  is  that,  on  the  floodtide  of  his  per- 
sonal happiness,  success  turned  full  tide 
for  Guy,  too.  "A  happy  guy,"  Guy  smiles, 
"completely  happy.  For  a  number  of  rea- 
sons, number  one  of  which  is  that  I  don't 
base  my  life  on  such  an  'intangible'  as 
show  business  is.  I  never  have,  since  my 
iirst  real  love  was — and  is — cowboying, 
riding,  horses,  the  outdoors  .  .  ." 

Guy  was  three  when  the  Cernick  fam- 
ily moved  from  Detroit  to  St.  Louis,  where 
they  lived  on  the  edge  of  a  farm — and 
where  Guy  started  "getting  the  outdoor 
bug."  A  few  years  later,  the  family, 
which  now  included  Guy's  younger  broth- 
er Don,  moved  again,  this  time  to  Colo- 
rado, where  Guy's  dad  worked  in  the 
mines.  In  Colorado,  an  uncle  of  the  Cer- 
nick boys  had  a  farm,  with  the  woods  near 
by.  It  was  on  this  farm,  and  in  these 
woods,  that  Guy  began  to  learn  how  re- 
latively little  money  matters  in  terms  of 
human  happiness. 

"We  kids  made  swings  out  of  vines,"  he 
recalls.  "Built  big  tree  houses,  tried 
jumping  cliffs  on  home-made  skis.  We 
rode  the  farm  horses,  milked  the  cows, 
helped  in  the  fields.  Couldn't  have  been 
happier  than  we  were,  without  any  mon- 
ey to  speak  of.  Even  when  things  got 
real  bad,  we  couldn't  complain.  We'd 
live  in  a  little  old  two-room  shack.  Dad 
would  carpenter  it  up,  fix  the  plumbing, 
paint  it  nice.  Mom  woiild  plant  flowers, 
b"ke.  And  such  singing!  The  two  of  them 
singing,  all  four  of  us  singing,  the  day 
long.  When  conditions  in  the  mines  got 
bad  and  Dad  started  coughing  up  dust,  we 
got  out  of  there  and  went  to  California." 
Guy's  first  success  as  a  vocalist  had 
taken  place  when  he  was  three.  The  oc- 
casion was  a  wedding  anniversary  party 
at  the  Cernick  home  in  Detroit,  and  the 
house  was  crowded  with  relatives,  all  of 
them  singing — as  everyone  always  is.  when 
Cernicks  are  gathered  together.  Sudden- 
ly, small  Al  gave  out  with  such  an  amaz- 
ingly big  voice,  for  such  a  tiny  tad,  that 
he  "stopped  the  show."  It  was  the  first 
small  sign  of  things  to  come. 

Eight  years  later,  on  a  bus  to  Los  An- 
geles, where  the  family  was  going  to  es- 
tablish a  new  home,  the  boy  baritone 
wowed  his  second  audience.  As  usual,  the 
Cernicks  were  all  singing.  What  was  not 
usual— to  their  fellow  passengers,  at  any 
rate — was  the  rich  volume  of  sound  well- 
ing out  of  the  throat  of  the  little  shaver 
named  Al.  So  unusual,  indeed,  that— 
upon  their  arrival  in  Los  Angeles — a  well- 
dressed  stranger  presented  his  card  to  Al's 
mother,  told  her  her  boy  had  a  wonderful 
voice  and,  if  she  would  contact  him  after 
they  were  settled,  he  would  see  to  it  that 
the  "young  prodigy"  got  into  the  movies. 
Improbable  as  it  might  seem,  the  strang- 
er wasn't  fooling.  He  did  arrange  for  an 
audition,  and  the  eleven-year-old  was 
signed  at  Warner  Bros,  for  grooming  as  a 
child  star.  There  followed  a  year  of  les- 
sons in  dancing,  diction,  acting  and  voice. 
T  Also,  during  this  twelve-month  period  he 
"  sang  regularly  on  Warner  Bros.'  Holly- 
"  wood  radio  station,  KSWB.  Then  the 
family  moved  again,  this  time  to  San 
70  ^'■^"'^'^'^^     ("Gypsy    blood    in    us,    I    tell 


you!"  Guy  laughs) — ending,  for  the  time 
being,  any  hope  of  the  boy  developing  into 
a  movie  personality. 

In  San  Francisco,  Guy  attended  Mission 
High  School,  engaging  heavily  in  all  ath- 
letic activities.  He  swam  on  the  school 
team,  played  baseball  and  football,  did  a 
lot  of  tumbling  and  acrobatics  (he  has  a 
body  like  a  steel  spring),  did  some  weight 
lifting,  played  handball.  He  also  con- 
tinued his  singing  lessons,  studying  with 
one  of  the  foremost  voice  teachers  in  the 
area. 

But  it  was  also  in  San  Francisco  that 
the  career  of  the  budding  baritone  was  al- 
most nipped  in  the  bud.  All  his  life,  Guy 
has  admired  horses,  loved  horses,  wanted 
to  ride  them,  be  near  them.  The  Golden 
Gate  city  gave  him  the  chance — for  there 
are  two  horse  towns  in  the  suburbs,  Colma 
and  Butchertown,  where  horses  and  cat- 
tle are  brought  for  marketing.  Guy  spent 
so  much  time  in  one  or  the  other  of  these 
two  Meccas  that  his  parents  began  to  de- 
spair of  his  ever  amounting  to  anything, 
let  alone  a  singing  star. 

When  the  now  teen-age  youngster  be- 
gan to  realize  that  loitering  around  horse 
towns  was  not  exactly  enterprising,  he 
got  a  job  as  an  apprentice  saddle-maker, 
evertually  becoming  an  expert  leather 
worker.  (He  still  makes  all  his  own  rid- 
ing gear.)  During  the  sununers,  he 
worked  on  ranches  in  the  San  Joaquin 
Valley  and,  for  kicks,  competed  in  rodeos 
and  broke  bronchos.  As  may  be  ex- 
pected, he  sang  all  the  time,  wherever  he 
was,  whatever  he  was  doing. 

Uy  the  time  Guy  was  seventeen,  he  had 
quite  a  repertoire  of  folk  and  cowboy 
tunes  and  his  voice  was  beginning  to  at- 
tract attention  around  the  saddle  shop. 
Friends,  neighbors  and  total  strangers 
dropped  in  to  hear  him.  One  of  the 
strangers  was  cowboy  singer  Dude  Martin, 
who  asked  the  boy  to  audition  for  his 
radio  program.  The  audition  resulted  in 
Guy's  being  signed  to  sing  on  Martin's 
shows. 

Before  he  could  get  a  good  hold  on  a 
singins;  career,  however.  Uncle  Sam  got 
a  hold  on  him  that  lasted  for  sixteen 
months.  He  served  in  the  Navy,  did  a 
stint  on  a  submarine,  was  then  assigned 
to  a  band.  Out  of  uniform  and  honorably 
discharged,  toward  the  end  of  1946,  Guy 
returned  to  San  Francisco  and  to  his  sing- 
ing chores   with  Dude  Martin. 

It  wasn't  long,  though,  before  it  became 
apparent  that  "the  singingest  person  you 
ever  did  see"  could  do  a  great  deal  more 
than  sing  just  Western  numbers.  And  so, 
when  there  was  an  opening  for  a  male 
vocalist  in  Carmen  Cavallaro's  orchestra, 
Guy — with  the  blessing  of  Dude  Martin- 
tried  for  the  job  and  got  it. 

During  most  of  1947  and  into  the  sum- 
mer of  '48,  Al  Cernick  (as  he  was  still 
known)  was  with  Cavallaro,  playing  a 
series  of  hotel,  club  and  theater  dates, 
finally  winding  up  in  New  York  for  the 
band's  annual  engagement  at  the  Astor 
Roof.  This  could  have  been — but  wasn't 
—the  big  break  for  Al.  No  sooner  had  the 
band  opened  on  the  Roof  than  he  was 
stricken  with  laryngitis  and  ptomaine 
poisoning  and  had  to  quit.  Cavallaro  gave 
him  vacation  money  and  a  plane  ticket 
home,  but  Al  decided  to  stick  it  out  in  New 
York,  make  a  do-or-die  try  for  the  big- 
time. 

It  wasn't  too  rough,  at  first.  He  sang  in 
small  night  clubs  'round  about.  Occasion- 
ally, he'd  cut  a  demonstration  disc  for  a 
songwriter  who  wanted  to  get  a  new  tune 
on  wax.  He  made  a  trip  as  vocalist  with 
a  ship's  orchestra  on  a  Caribbean  cruise. 
In  the  fall  of  1949,  he  had  a  taste  of 
triumph.  He  placed  first  on  an  Arthur 
Godfrey   Talent   Scouts   show   and,   for    a 


while,  had  that  this-is-it  feeling.  A  short 
while  only.  A  week  later,  he  was  again 
cutting  demonstration  d-scs. 

"I  posted  myself  in  front  of  the  Brill 
Building  on  Broadway,  which  houses  sev- 
eral of  the  world's  largest  music  publish- 
ing companies,"  Guy  recalls,  "with  the 
hope  that  I'd  be  noticed  by  the  songwrit- 
ers continually  milling  in  and  out.  For 
each  disc  I  cut,  I  earned  from  two  to  five 
dollars.  When  I  think  back  on  those  days, 
I  remember  that — while  I  didn't  miss  any 
meals — I  sure  postponed  a  few!  But,  al- 
though the  pay  was  low,  the  hope  was  high 
that  one  fine  day  a  publisher  listening  to 
one  of  my  demonstration  discs  would  say, 
'Wait  a  minute,  who  is  this?' " 

For  Guy,  the  one  fine  day  dawned  when 
he  recorded  "My  Foolish  Heart"  for  tune- 
smith  Ned  Washington,  who  took  the  re- 
cording to  Eddie  Joy,  then  vice-president 
of  the  music  publishing  firm  which  now 
bears  his  name.  When  Joy  heard  the 
voice  of  Al  Cernick  on  the  disc,  he  said 
he'd  buy  the  tune  and  would  also  like  to 
meet  the  singer—  "He  sounds  like  a  com- 
er." Less  than  half  an  hovur  after  they 
met,  Joy  became  the  "comer's"  personal 
manager.  The  first  thing  Joy  did  was  to 
confine  young  Cernick  to  a  practice  room 
in  the  office  and  make  him  listen,  over 
and  over  again,  to  records  by  all  the  pop- 
ular singers  of  the  day.  At  the  end  of  a 
week,  Joy  gave  his  protege  the  reason  for 
the  heavy  dose  of  listening.  "It  isn't 
enough,"  he  explained,  "that  you  have  a 
good  voice,  or  a  big  voice.  Each  of  these 
singers  has  something  special  on  the  ball, 
each  has  his  own  particular  curve.  We've 
got  to  find  yours." 

It  took  patience.  But  out  of  these  ses- 
sions, weeks  of  them,  developed  the  style, 
often  described  as  "fresh,  warm,  sincere," 
which   is   Guy's  today. 

In  March,  1950,  singer  Cernick  was 
pacted  by  Columbia  Records — and  re- 
christened,  before  pen  was  put  to  paper. 
"Who  on  earth,"  Mitch  Miller  wanted  to 
know,  "wants  to  listen  to  the  romantic 
songs  of  Albert  Cernick?" 

"I'm  proud  of  my  name,"  Guy  observes, 
"coming  from  an  Old  Country  family, 
very  proud  of  it.  I  have  a  hunch  that 
'My  Heart  Cries  for  You,'  the  tune  that 
catapulted  me  into  the  spotlight,  would 
have  had  the  same  projectile  force  if  sung 
by  Al  Cernick  as  by  Guy  Mitchell.  But 
who  was  I  to  say — or,  rather,  to  gainsay 
Mitch  Miller?  Only  time  I  balked  was 
when  they  began  trying  to  give  me  all 
kinds  of  fancy  names.  'I'm  just  a  plain 
guy,'  I  told  them,  'why  don't  you  just  give 
me  a  good  plain  name?  Too  bad  Mitch 
Miller  is  bespoken,'  I  kidded.  'It  would 
suit  me  fine.'  'A  plain  guy,'  they  repeated, 
playing  around  with  it,  'Mitch  Miller. 
Mitch  .  .  .'  'Guy  Mitchell,'  said  Mitch 
Miller.    And  that  was  it." 

Once  the  contract  was  signed,  every- 
body was  prepared  to  wait  at  least  two 
years  for  the  big  break,  a  hit  record,  to 
come  along.  It  came  less  than  a  year  lat- 
er, after  Guy  had  released  five  discs,  none 
of  them  spectacularly  successful.  His  sixth, 
"My  Heart  Cries  for  You,"  backed  by  "The 
Roving  Kind,"  really  crashed  through.  It 
climbed  to  the  top  of  all  best-seller  and 
disc-jockey  lists.  It  sold  a  million  and  a 
half  copies,  before  it  finally  dropped  from 
the  lists.  Hot  on  the  heels  of  this  suc- 
cess, Guy  followed  up  with  a  series  of  hits 
that  made  him  a  household  name  through- 
out the  land.  Among  them,  "Sparrow  in 
the  Treetop,"  "My  Truly,  Truly  Fair," 
"Belle,  Belle,  My  Liberty  Belle."  In  1951, 
his  disc  sales  exceeded  a  cool,  cool  five 
million. 

Then,  as  suddenly  as  it  rose,  Guy's  star 
began  to  fall.  His  records  weren't  selling. 
A  new  hit  tune  that  would  resurrect  him 


didn't  come  along.  The  fan  mail  fell  off. 
The  clamor  quieted.  The  only  place  he 
retained  his  popularity  was  in  England — 
where,  in  London  and  on  tour,  he  sang  last 
February.  For  about  five  years,  what  Guy 
calls  "the  dry  speU"  continued. 

What  happens  when  there  are  "dry 
spells?"  What  causes  them?  "A  number 
of  things,"  says  Guy.  "You  get  stale,  you 
saturate  the  market,  you  get  in  a  rut. 
But  the  nimiber-one  cause  is  that  you 
don't  find  a  new  hit  tune.  The  music  busi- 
ness is  very  strange.  You  come  out  on  top 
with  one  hit  record — and  you  may  never 
find  one  again." 

Since  troubles  never  run  singly,  it  was 
during  this  ebb  tide  in  Guy's  life  that  his 
marriage  to  Jackie  Loughrey  (Miss 
United  States)  began  and  ended — due,  it 
can  be  surmised  from  the  way  he  feels 
about  marriage  now,  to  the  handicap  of 
two  careers  in  one  family. 

These  were  not  the  good  years  for  Guy, 
but  he  weathered  them,  chin  up,  still 
singing  .  .  . 

If  you  keep  singing  and  have  faith  in 
God,  you're  going  to  make  it,  you're 
going  to  be  all  right.  And  Guy  kept 
singing,  and  he  had  his  faith  in  God.  "I 
say  a  prayer,"  he  confides,  "every  time 
before  I  go  on  stage.  I  always  have.  Every 
other  day  or  so,  I  go  to  church — different 
churches.  "The  Actors  Chapel  here  in  New 
York.  St.  Patrick's  on  Fifth  Avenue.  A 
synagogue.  You  can  pray  in  all  of  them. 
You  find  God  in  all  of  them." 

Now,  after  five  years  of  drought,  the 
"dry  spell"  has  broken.  Now  there  is 
Else.  Now  there  is  "Singing  the  Blues" — 
that  "hit  record  you  may  never  find 
again."  Now,  as  before,  there  are  the 
demands  for  in-person  appearances,  for 
radio  and  TV  guest  shots.  Now  Broadway 
is  re-alerted.  And  Hollywood.  Now  Guy 
is  again  "the  hottest  thing  in  show  busi- 
ness." 

"I'm  going  to  keep  singing,  keep  hoping 
for  hits  to  sing.  I'd  like  to  do  some  movies 
and  TV — but  on  the  West  Coast.  In  a 
city,  I'm  a  duck  out  of  water.  Speaking 
of  Hollywood,  I'll  take  this  occasion  to 
make  the  following  short  speech,  addressed 
to  those  whom  it  may  concern:  You 
should  get  me  now  before  I  turn  into  a 
character  actor — or  into  a  'character'  and 
charge  you  the  mint! 

"What  I  really  want  to  do,  as  time  goes 
on,  is  try  to  make  less  singing  count  vnore. 
Cowboying  and  riding,  that's  what  I'm 
wanting  to  get  back  to.  I  made  a  start 
when  I  retired  my  folks,  bought  them  a 
small  ranch — so  I  sort  of  help,  you  might 
say,  to  own  a  ranch.  Now  I'm  going  to 
buy  a  ranch  for  Else  and  me  and  for  the 
kids  we  hope  to  have.  My  horses  would 
be  there,  and  my  big  old  dog.  Aim  to 
buy  the  land  in  the  San  Fernando  or 
maybe  in  the  San  Joaquin  Valley. 

"What  I'd  also  like,  as  time  goes  on,  is 
to  have  the  place  end  up  a  boys'  ranch. 
Run  just  like  Boys  Town  is  run.  Or  an 
agricultural  college.  Have  underprivileged 
boys  there.  Boys  in  PAL  who  have  done 
real  good.  A  few  delinquents;  a  few  of 
the  so-called  'incorrigible'  kind  nobody's 
been  able  to  do  anything  with,  the  kind 
you  can't  throw  in  with  their  own  kind 
and  expect  results.  Give  each  of  these 
kids  a  horse,  let  them  raise  a  few  calves, 
borrow  what  they  need  from  a  central  fund 
and,  when  they  sell  their  calves,  pay  back 
what  they've  borrowed  and  keep  the 
profit.  We  don't  live  alone,  as  the  great 
Dr.  Schweitzer  says,  and  none  of  us 
should  have  to." 

Who  is  Al  Cernick?  He's  "just  a  plain 
guy"  who,  because  his  heart  is  as  big  as 
his  voice,  also  happens  to  be,  as  the  kids 
put  it,  "the  most."  He's  the  all-around 
happiest — as  well  as  the  singingest — person 
you  ever  did  meet. 


'RADIO 
MIRROR 


Act  Now  And  You  Will 
Receive  4  Extra  Issues 
On  This  Special  Offer! 

Now  you  can  subscribe  for  TV  Radio  Mirror  at  a  special  rate  and 
receive  16  exciting  issues  for  only  $3.00.  Thousands  of  enthusiastic 
readers  regularly  pay  the  same  price  for  12  issues.  If  you  act  at  once 
you  will  receive  4  EXTRA  issues — 16  in  all — for  only  $3.00,  saving 
you  $1.00  over  the  newsstand  price. 

TV  Radio  Mirror  brings  you  the  very  best  in  radio  and  television 
entertainment.  Every  issue  is  jam-packed  with  exciting  articles  and 
features.  You'll  read  intimate,  inside  stories  about  the  interesting 
people  and  programs  on  radio  and  television.  And  you'll  get  valu- 
able advance  listings  of  programs  to  come. 

So  mail  the  coupon  in  now  while  this  special  money-saving  offer 
is  iti  effect.  You'll  get  16  big  issues  of  TV  Radio  Mirror  for  only 
$3.00,  guaranteeing  you  a  whale  of  a  lot  of  pleasure. 

SAVE  $1.00  UNDER  NEWSSTAND  PRICES! 


-MAIL  THIS  COUPON  TODAY 1 


Mail  to:  TV  Radio  Mirror,  TVRM  6-57 

205  East  42  St.,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 

Yes!  Enter  my  subscription  at  once.  Send  me  the 
next  16  months  of  TV  Radio  Mirror  for  only  S3, 
saving  me  $1  under  newsstand  prices,  I  enclose 
$3  as  payment. 


Name    . 

Address 
City.... 


(Please    Print) 


Zone....  State. 


71 


(Continved  from  paqe  23) 
on  winning."  Vivienne  and  her  husband. 
Victor  Nearing,  are  both  lawyers,  and 
Victor — who  had  previously  been  an  un- 
successful contestant  on  Twenty-One — was 
her  most  ardent  supporter. 

Fellow  members  (all  m^le)  of  the  ]p<?al 
staff  at  Warner  Bros.'  New  York  office, 
where  Vivienne  works,  weren't  so  im- 
pressed at  first.  The  next  morning  after 
her  initial  appearancp  on  Tvjentv-One, 
they  told  her  airily.  "We  could  have  an- 
swered those  Questions."  The  day  after 
she  dethroned  Van  Doren,  the  atmosphere 
was  quite  different — the  office  filled  with 
flowers,  and  gifts  both  large  and  small. 
The  previous  night,  the  Nearings  had  re- 
turned home  to  find  their  mail-box  over- 
flowing with  congratulatory  wires  and 
notes.  And  the  nhone  rang  all  through 
the  wee,  sma'  hours  in  their  Greenwich 
Village  apartment. 

That— plus  TV  appearances  on  other 
programs,  innumerable  interviews,  pic- 
tures in  national  magazines,  and  even 
offers  of  movie  contracts — is  how  being  on 
Twenty-One  has  affected  the  lives  of  two 
people  you'd  never  heard  about  before. 
What  would  it  be  like  for  you?  Let's  sup- 
pose you  are  a  potential  contestant.  Where 
do  you  come  from?  Where  do  Jack  Barry 
and  his  partner,  Dan  Enright — who  own 
the  show — find  you? 

Perhaps  you  answer  one  of  the  ads  they 
run  ("Would  you  like  to  win  money  on  a 
quiz  show?")  in  certain  magazines  and 
some  newspapers.  Or  perhaps  someone 
suggests  to  you — or  to  Barry  &  Enright — 
that  you  have  a  mind  like  a  magpie,  with 
enough  facts  tucked  away  in  your  brain 
to  be  another  Van  Doren  or  Nearing.  Van 
Doren  himself  was  "found"  when  a  girl- 
friend of  his,  who  had  been  on  NBC-TV's 
daytime  show.  Tic  Tac  Dough  (another 
Barry  &  Enright  production) ,  suggested  to 
him  that  he'd  do  well  on  Twenty-One. 

By  whatever  means  you  become  a  po- 
tential contestant,  you  are  invited  to  pre- 
sent yourself  at  the  handsome  penthouse 
suite  of  Barry  &  Enright,  high  in  the  clouds 
over  Madison  Avenue.  Here,  in  an  outer 
office,  your  first  step  is  to  fill  out  a  fairly 
routine  questionnaire:  Age,  occupation, 
marital  status,  interests,  hobbies  and  the 
like.  Assuming  that  you  are  literate  and 
your  answers  clear,  you  are  then  given  a 
100-question  "multiple"  test.  If  you  do 
poorly  on  this,  you  descend  from  the 
clouds  on  the  next  elevator.  You've  had  it. 

If  you  do  moderately  well,  you  are  con- 
sidered for  Tic  Tac  Dough.  If  you  do  very 
well,  exceedingly  well,  you  are  then  given 
the  Twenty-One  test — a  written  test,  fa- 
miliarly known  as  "The  Blockbuster" — 
which  consists  of  363  fiendishly  detailed 
factual  Questions  in  107  different  cate- 
gories: Politics.  Sports.  Religion.  His- 
tory. The  arts.  All  the  — ologies  from 
astrology  to  zoology.  Plus  questions  that 
test  your  perception,  too.  The  actual  ques- 
tions contained  in  "The  Blockbuster"  are 
as  hush-hush  as  a  top  secret  in  the  Pen- 
tagon, but  such  a  perception  question  as 
which  traffic  light  is  on  top — red  or 
green? — would  be  a  reasonable  facsimile. 
The  test,  if  carefully  done,  should  take 
you  about  three  hours.  You  take  it  right 
there,  in  the  penthouse  office.  No  one  is 
allowed  to  take  the  test  out,  nor  to  discuss 
it  afterward.  No  one— not  even  Van 
Doren — has  ever  got  anywhere  near  100%. 
You  are   judged  on  the  number  of  cate- 

T    gories  you  fill  in  and  the  score  you  make 

V    in  each  of  them. 

1  Once  you  have  passed  such  a  brain- 
picking,  you  are  turned  over  to  staff  in- 
terviewer  Bob  Rubin,  who  proceeds  to  dig 


High  Tension  on  21 

into  your  personality.  He  tries  to  find  out 
things  in  your  background  which  will  lead 
to  good  repartee  with  Jack  Barry.  He 
also  discovers  whether  or  not  you  are  ar- 
ticulate (many  a  "brain"  is  not) ,  by  asking 
such  questions  as:  "Are  you  a  lawyer? 
Why  are  you  a  lawyer?  How  did  you 
meet  your  wife?  .  At  a  fraternity  party? 
What  do  you  think  of  fraternities?" 

If  you  seem  poised  during  this  barrage, 
Mr.  Rubin  tries  to  shake  your  poise  by 
asking  pointedly  personal  Questions.  "I 
have  to  throw  in  queries  that  befuddle 
potential  contestants,"  he  explains,  "be- 
cause there  is  no  other  way  of  determin- 
ing that,  no  matter  how  packed  their 
brains  may  be,  they  will  not  'freeze'  on 
camera.  In  case  of  'freezing' — or  if  the 
game  ends  quickly  and  there's  time  for 
another  couple — we  always  have  four  con- 
testants in  the  studio  on  Monday  night." 

After  Mr.  Rubin  has  done  with  you,  you 
are  turned  over  to  producer  Al  Friedman, 
who  puts  you  through  another  "depth" 
interview.  Assuming  you  now  have  enough 
breath  left  in  your  bodv  to  surface  again, 
you  are  passed  on  to  Mr.  Barry,  Mr.  En- 
right, and  Bob  Noah,  executive  producer 
of  Twenty-One.  And.  barring  some  unto- 
ward circumstance,  you  are  then  on  your 
way  to  one  of  the  glass-walled  isolation 
booths — or  you  duck  and  run  for  cover. 

As  one  of  these  less  daring  souls  put  it. 
"I'm  chickening  out.  I'm  going  to  remain 
'potential.'  You  can't  know  evervthing. 
No  man  can.  It's  impossible."  During  the 
many  weeks  he  sweated  out  the  right  an- 
swers in  more  than  fifty  different  categor- 
ies. Van  Doren  came  eerily  close  to  the 
impossible — but  not  painlessly.  After  he 
had  reached  the  $122,000  mark,  the  agonies 
of  his  mental  concentration  were  described 
in  the  following  words:  "Clamped  in  a 
vise  of  earphones,  the  eyes  roll  heaven- 
ward and  squeeze  shut,  the  brow  sweats 
and  furrows,  teeth  gnaw  at  the  lower  lip." 

Contestants  and  potential  contestants 
aren't  the  only  ones  who  suffer  from  high 
tension  on  Twenty-One.  Experienced  as 
he  is,  moderator  Jack  Barry  admits:  "I 
get  a  little  trembling.  The  card  in  my 
hand  shakes  just  a  little.  Something  which 
never  happened  to  me  in  all  my  years  on 
Juvenile  Jury  or  Life  Begins  At  80.  which 
doesn't  happen  to  me  now  on  Tic  Tac 
Dough  or  Winky  Dink  And  You.  The  first 
few  weeks  on  Twenty-One,  I  was  frantic. 
No,  disbursing  large  sums  of  money  had 
nothing  to  do  with  it.  I  gave  away  $100,- 
000  a  couple  of  times  on  The  Big  Surprise. 
Nor  do  I  get  too  excited  whether  a  con- 
testant is  winning  or  losing. 

"I'm  too  preoccupied  with  the  mechanics 
of  the  show,"  he  laughs.  "First  of  all,  I 
control  whether  the  isolation  booths — or 
studios,  as  we  call  them  on  Twenty-One — 
are  on  the  air  or  off.  Suppose  I  pull  the 
wrong  switch,  which  would  enable  one 
contestant  to  hear  the  other?  Be  out  of 
business,  wouldn't  we? 

"In  addition  to  mechanical  problems, 
there  are  the  questions,  the  interviews, 
the  commercials,  and  the  necessity  for 
wearing  a  mental  strait-jacket  in  order  to 
remain  strictly  impartial.  And  always," 
Barry  emphasizes,  "there's  the  tension. 
The  chancy  element  of  never  knowing 
whether  or  not  a  contestant  is  going  to 
go  on.  If  he  chooses  to  do  so,  there  is 
no  limit  to  the  number  of  times  he  can 
play.  For  most  of  them — as  it  was  with 
Van  Doren,  who  loves  poker  and  is  a 
gambler  at  heart — it's  a  last-minute,  split- 
second  decision.  So  you  don't  know.  You 
don't  ever  know.  I'm  darned  glad  when 
the  show  is  over,"  he  sighs  with  relief. 

The  tension  is  high  for  Jack  Barry,  as  it 


is  for  contestants,  audiences  and  viewers. 
But  the  rewards  are  great  for  him,  too. 
He  also  gets  several  hundred  letters  a 
week:  Requests  for  pictures,  praise  for 
being  a  fair,  square  and  kindly  moder- 
ator— even  a  few  somewhat  warmer  epis- 
tles from  women  who  have  an  eye  for  a 
tall,  handsome,  ingratiating  man,  regard- 
less of  marital  status.  But  the  messages 
which  have  meant  most  to  Jack  are  those 
from  teenagers  and  from  parents  who  write 
that  their  youngsters  are  taking  renewed 
interest  in  their  school  work,  as  a  result 
of  the  kind  of  contestants  they  see  on 
Twenty-One. 

Ratings  have  been  more  than  satisfac- 
tory, particularly  for  a  program  scheduled 
in  that  all-important  Monday-night  time 
slot.  Twenty-One  has  not  only  run  neck- 
and-neck  with  the  seemingly  invincible  I 
Love  Lucy,  but  has  topped  the  latter  pro- 
gram by  good  margins  (first  time  Lucy 
has  been  outrated  in  the  past  six  years). 

"Truth  is,"  says  Jack  Barry,  "Twenty- 
One  is.  for  me,  the  Big  Comeback.  After 
some  pretty  perilous  times,  too.  A  year 
ago.  almost  exactly,  I  didn't  have  a  job. 
After  ten  years  on  the  air.  Juvenile  Jury 
was  axed.  Ditto,  after  eight  years.  Life 
Begins  At  80.  Following  which  I  was 
yanked,  none  too  gently,  off  The  Big  Sur- 
prise. That  left  us  with  Winky  Dink  And 
You.  which,  at  the  time,  was  a  sustaining 
show.  A  sustaining  show  brings  in  a 
modest,  very  modest  sum.  I  was  down  to 
that.     So  was  our  company. 

"One  year  later,  we  have  three  major 
shows  on  the  networks.  Tic  Tac  Dough — 
the  biggest  daytime  giveaway  show  on  the 
air — which  I  emcee  on  NB(J-TV.  Winky 
Dink  And  You,  which  I  co-produce  and 
emcee  on  CBS-TV.  And.  of  course, 
Twenty-One,  also  on  NBC-TV.  Out  of  the 
depth  of  depression  has  come  prosperity. 

Our  luck  changed,"  Jack  recalls,  "quite 
literally,  with  the  flip  of  a  card.  One 
afternoon,  about  a  year  ago,  Dan  Enright 
and  Bob  Noah  were  sitting  in  the  office 
and — for  want  of  something  better  to  do — 
playing  a  game  of  Blackjack  (also  known 
as  Twenty-One).  'I  wonder,'  Dan  said 
aloud,  as  he  shuffled  the  cards,  'if  this 
game  couldn't  be  turned  into  a  quiz  show?' 
Well,  you  don't  have  to  be  a  Van  Doren 
or  a  Nearing  to  know  that  answer! 

"Soon  after  Dan  and  Bob  got  going  with 
the  idea.  I  chipped  in.  And  didn't  cotton 
to  it  right  away,  I  must  admit.  At  first, 
it  was  a  very  cumbersome  thing  which 
took  months  and  months  of  work  to  sim- 
plify. For  instance,  it  looked  very  un- 
fair that  the  first  contestant  on  mike 
should  get  to  21  more  quickly  than  the 
other.  Should  we  or  should  we  not  de- 
duct points  when  they  miss?  Eventually, 
we  hit  on  the  tie — for  which  there  is  no 
precedent,  but  which  makes  the  game  a 
fair  game  for  both.  For  the  I.Q.  or  'Block- 
buster' test,  we  did  the  research  here, 
made  up  the  test  ourselves,  then  had  it 
checked  for  accuracy  and  authenticated 
by  the  Encyclopaedia  Britannica. 

"Above  all,  of  course,  there  was  the 
problem  of  how  and  where  to  find  con- 
testants with  enough  in  their  heads  to 
stay  the  course  on  Twenty-One.  On  the 
whole,  we've  been  singularly  fortunate. 
Van  Doren,  for  instance,  called  us  on  the 
phone  and  made  a  date  to  come  down,  as 
soon  as  the  young  lady  who  had  been  on 
Tic  Tac  Dough  told  him  he  should  try 
for  Twenty-One.  For  the  most  part,  we've 
found  that  schoolteachers  and  college  pro- 
fessors, lawyers  and  doctors,  newspaper 
and  editorial  people — all  the  way  up  from 
copy  boy  to  editor-in-chief — score  the 
highest,  both  on  the  test  and  on  mike." 


Certainly,  Charles  Lincoln  Van  Doren 
and  Mrs.  Vivienne  Wax  Nearing  fit  snugly 
into  those  categories.  Now  teaching  Eng- 
lish at  Columbia,  he  has  three  university 
degrees.  He  once  wanted  to  be  an 
astrophysicist,  actually  got  his  M.A.  in 
mathematics.  Then,  while  working  for  his 
Ph.D.,  he  read  an  average  of  twenty  books 
a  week  for  two  years.  Son  of  one  Pulitz- 
er Prize  winner  (Mark  Van  Doren,  poet), 
he's  also  nephew  of  another  (Carl  Van 
Poren.  biographer  of  Benjamin  Franklin) . 
i^harles  himself  has  iust  had  a  book  pub- 
's <^hed.  "Lincoln's  Commando,"  a  Civil 
War  biography  co-authored  with  Ralph 
Ro=ke.  For  diversion,  he  favors  sports 
and  music.  As  a  youngster,  he  played 
baseball,  tennis,  basketball,  studied  clari- 
net and  taught  himself  to  strum  a  guitar. 

Vivienne  also  has  three  degrees.  She 
was  an  honor  student  at  both  Queens 
College,  where  she  got  a  B.A.  in  social 
."^cience,  and  Columbia,  where  she  got  an 
M.A.  in  economics.  After  winning  more 
letters  at  Columbia  Law  School,  she 
worked  there  as  a  research  assistant,  then 
for  the  chief  justice  of  the  New  Jersey 
Supreme  Court.  She's  also  been  a  statis- 
tician, a  social  worker  in  the  Child  Wel- 
fare Bureau,  an  editor  for  the  monthly 
Journal  of  Taxation,  a  trial  lawyer  for 
Legal  Aid.  Now  handling  contract  and 
copyright  matters  in  a  major  film  com- 
nany's  New  York  office,  she  admits  to 
being  a  "Sunday  painter"  specializing  in 
portraits  in  oils.  She  has,  incidentally, 
studied  both  piano  and  modern  art. 

"It's  all  very  exciting,"  Jack  smiles, 
"very  rewarding  in  terms  of  intangibles, 
as  well  as  tangibles.  I  think  there's  no 
doubt,  for  instance,  that  both  Van  Doren 
and  Herbert  Stempel — the  young  college 
student  who  was  Charlie's  first  opponent — 
developed  an  enormous  self-confidence 
from  their  appearances  on  Twenty-One, 
.something  which  both  of  them  needed. 
Most  contestants  have  gained  in  other 
ways,  aside  from  the  actual  cash  involved. 

"Twenty-One  has  changed  my  own  life, 
of  course.  Greatest  of  all  is  the  inner 
satisfaction  of  knowing  that  Barry  &  En- 
right  Productions  is  considered  the  hottest 
producing    company    in    TV    right    now. 

"That  the  show  has  raised  my  personal 
value  as  a  performer  is  immensely  grati- 
fying, too,"  Jack  grins.  "Knowing  that  I 
can't  be  fired  isn't  hard  to  take,  either.  A 
cozy  feeling.  Not  to  mention  certain  other 
small  intangibles — like  being  given  the 
best  table  in  a  restaurant,  more  invitations 
than  my  wife  and  I  could  ever  accept!  I 
am  no  longer  a  wallflower,"  he  laughs. 

By  way  of  tangible  reward.  Jack  and 
Marcia  Van  Dyke  Barry  have  moved  four 
blocks  up,  in  Manhattan's  East  Eighties. 
From  the  five-room  apartment  to  which 
Jack  brought  his  beautiful  and  talented 
bride,  in  1952,  to  the  eleven-room  duplex 
which  is  now  home  for  them  and  for  their 
two  children,  Jeffrey,  who  is  three  and  a 
half,  and  Jonathan,  a  year  younger. 

"The  apartment  overlooks  the  river," 
says  Jack.  "A  huge,  wide  terrace  runs 
around  the  whole  thing,  with  awnings  and 
a  little  garden  and  a  rubber  swimming 
pool  for  the  kids.  We're  very  much  one 
for  all  and  all  for  one — Marcia,  the  kids 
and  I.  When  they're  going  to  bed  at  night, 
you  can  hear  the  kids  singing,  'Tic,  tac, 
dough,  with  an  X  and  an  O!'  And  you 
know  you've  got  a  couple  of  daytime 
viewers  in  the  nursery.  As  for  the  night- 
time show,  Marcia  very  often  comes  to  the 
studio  on  Mondays  and  watches  the  show 
from  the  audience. 

"We're  happy.  We're  grateful.  We  hope 
that  the  luck  will  stay  with  us,  for  as  long 
as  we  deserve  it.  Doesn't  that  just  about 
say  it  all?"  asks  the  luckiest  and — with  all 
due  respect  to  those  brainy  contestants — 
perhaps  the  smartest  man  on  Twenty-One. 


OPPORTUNITIES 

FOR  EVERYBODY 


Publlcher's  Classified  Departrr 


For  advertUing  rafet,  write  (o  William  R.  Stewarf,  9  South  Clinton  Street,  Chicago  6  (Wom.-Junej  7 


OF  INTEREST  TO  WOMEN 

$500  FOR  YOUR  Child's  Picture  (All  Ages).  Thousands  paid 
by  advertisers.  Send  one  small  picture.  Returned  with  judges' 
report.  Print  child's,  parents'  name,  address  on  back.  Spotlite, 

8346-P6,  Beverly,  Hollywood,  Calif. 

$200  MONTHLY  POSSIBLE,  Sewing  Babywear— Play-Time 
Dresses;  lacing  Leather  MoccasinsI  New  Baby  Sandalsl  No 
house  selling  I  Rush  stamped,  addressed  envelope  for  further 
details.  Babygay,  Warsaw  1,  Indiana. 

$100-$200  MONTHLY  Possible,  preparing  envelopes,  post- 
cards,  from  mailing  lists  at  home.  Longhand,  typewriter.  De- 
tailed instructions  only  25cl  Economy  Publishers,  Box  1686, 

Clearwater  3,  Florida. 

BUY  WHOLESALE!  30-80%  DiscountsI  Appliances,  Gifts, 
Typewriters,  Tools,  Watches,  Sporting  Goods,  Jewelry,  Cam- 
eras, Housewares,  etc.  Consolidated  Distributors,  Clifton  17, 

New  Jersey. 

$2.00  HOURLY  POSSIBLE  doing  light  assembly  work  at 
home.   Experience  unnecessary.  Crown   Industries,  8507-8 

West  Third,  Los  Angeles  48,  Calif. 

$500  PAID  FOR  children's  photos,  all  ages,  if  used  for  adver- 
tising. Send  photo  for  approval.  Free  gifts.  Returned  two 
weeks.  Advertisers,  6000- YF  Sunset,  Hollywood  28,  California. 
EARN  $10  TO  $20.00  Daily~Preparing  our  Postcards,  Home 
Sparetime  Possible  (Starting-Outfit  $1.00.)  Fisher  Products, 

Box  4044-B,  San  Francisco,  California. 

MAKE  MONEY  CLIP'PTNG"Newspaper  Items  For  Publishers. 
Write,  Newscraft,  PW-983-E.  Main,  Columbus  5,  Ohio. 
EARN  SPARETIME  CASH  Mailing  Advertising  Literature. 

Glenway,  Box  6568,  Cleveland  1,  Ohio. 

SEW  OUR  READY  cut  aprons  at  home,  spare  time,  Easy, 

profitable.  Hanky  Aprons,  Caldwell  3,  Ark. 

EARN  $50  FAST  sewing  our  precut  products.  Information  3c. 

Thompson's,  Loganville,  Wisconsin. 

RECEIVE  CASH  FOR  Boxtops,  Labels,  Wrappers,  CouponsI 

Write,  Boxtops,  PW-983-E.  Main,  Columbus  5,  Ohio. 

HELP  WANTED 

BEAUTY  DEMONSTRATORS— TO  $5.00  hour  demonstrat- 
ing Famous  Hollywood  Cosmetics,  your  neighborhood.  For 
free  samples,  details,  write  Studio  Girl,  DepL  1676C,  Glen- 

dale,  Calif. 

EARN  EXTRA  MONEY  selling  Advertiiing  Book  Matches. 
Free  sample  kit  furnished.  Matchcorp,  Dept.  WP-38,  Chicago 

32,  Illinois^; 

HOMEWORK  ON  HAND-made  moccasins  and  bags.  Easy, 
Profitable.  California  Handicrafts,  Los  Angeles  46,  California. 

HOME  SEWERS  OPPORTUNITIES 

SEWING  MACHINES.  USED  Electric  portables.  Nice.  Guar- 
anteed. Only  $19.95  FOB,  839  So.  Broadway,  Wichita,  Kansas. 
SEW   APRONS    IN    your   home,    profitably.   Write:   Adco, 

Bastrop,  Louisiana. 

SEWBABY  SHOES  at  home  I  $40  week  possible.  We  con- 
tact stores  for  you.  Tiny-Tot,  Gallioclis  19,  Ohio. 


AGENTS  WANTED 


CALIFORNIA    SWEET    SMELLING    Beads.    Sensational 
sellers.  Free  Particulars.  Mission,  2328AA  West  Pico,  Los 

Angeles  6,  California. 

60%  PROFIT  COSMETICS  $25  day  up.  Hire  others.  Samples, 
details,  studio  Girt-Hollywood,  Glendale,  Calif.,  Dept.  1676H. 

PERSONAL 

TO  SPANK  OR  not  to  spank?  Box  882,  Milwaukee  1,  Wis. 


MONEYMAKING  OPPORTUNITIES 

$50.00  WEEKLY  POSSIBLE  Mailing  Circulars  For  Adver- 
tisers. Complete  Instructions  25c.  Siwaslian,  431 7-F  Gleane, 

Elmhurst  73,  N.Y._ 

$300.  MONTHLY  POSSIBLE  mailing  circulars.  Associated 

Advertisers,  509-M  Fifth  Ave.,  New  York  17,  N.Y. 

GUARANTEED  HOMEWORKI  IMMEDIATE  Commissions. 
Free  OutfitsI  Hirsch,  1301-12  Hoe,  New  York  City  59. 


EXTRA  MONEY  PREPARING  Mailing  Postcards,  Gul,  1815 

Meyers,  Lombard,  Illinois. 

MAKE   YOUR  TYPEWRITER   Earn   Money.   Send  $1.00. 

Hughes,  7004  Diversey,  Chicago  35. 

$15.00  THOUSAND  POSSIBLE,  copying  names  for  advertis- 

ers.  Economy,  Box  1686,  Clearwater  12,  Florida. 

HOMEWORKERS    WANTED    PAINTING    Novelties.    No 

Selling.  N.  Roland,  Vincentown  1,  N.  J. 

EARN  $100700  WEEKLYl  Preparing  envelopes.  Instructions 

$1.00  (Refundable).  National  Sales,  Harlan,  Ky. 

EDUCATIONAL  OPPORTUNITIES 


COMPLETE  YOUR  HIGH  School  at  home  in  spare  time  with 
60-year-old  school.  Texts  furnished.  No  classes.  Diploma. 
Information    booklet   free.    American    School,    Dept.    XA74, 

Drexel  at  58th,  Chicago  37,  Illinois. 

HIGH  SCHOOL  DIPLOMA  at  home.  Licensed  teachers. 
Approved  materials.  Southern  States  Academy,  Box  144W. 

Station  E,  Atlanta,  Georgia. 

LEARN  WHILE  ASLEEPI  Details  free.  Research  Associa- 

tion.  Box  610-WP,  Omaha. 

LOANS  BY  MAIL 

BORROW  $50  TO  $500.  Employed  men  and  women  over  25, 
eligible.  Confidential — no  co-signers — no  inquiries  of  employ- 
ers or  friends.  Repay  in  monthly  payments  to  fit  your  income. 
Supervised  by  State  of  Nebraska.  Loan  application  sent  free 
in  plain  envelope.  Give  occupation.   American   Loan   Plan, 

City  National  Bidg.,  Dept.  WD-6,  Omaha,  Nebraska. 

BUSINESS  OPPORTUNITIES 

$$$$GROW  MUSHROOMS.  Cellar,  shed.  Spare,  full  time, 
year  round.  We  pay  $3.50  lb.  We  have  over  25,000  customers. 
Free   Book.    Mushrooms,    Dept.    412,    2954   Admiral    Way, 

Seattle,  Wash. 

PREPARE  ADVERTISING  LETTERS.  Mail  to  our  name 
lists.    $50   weekly    possible.    Adams,    11603-R    Paramount: 

Downey,  California. 

STAMP  COLIECTING 
GIGANTIC  COLLECTION  FREE— Includes  Triangles— Early 
United   States   —  Animals  —  Commemoratives  —  British 
Colonies — High  Value  Pictorials,  etc.  Complete  Collection  plus 
Big  Illustrated  Magazine  all  free.  Send  5c  for  postage.  Gray 

Stamp  Co.,  Dept.  PC,  Toronto,  Canada. 

FOREIGN  &  U.S.A.  JOB  LISTINGS 

HIGH  PAYING  JOBS;  Foreign,  USA.  All  trades.  Travel  paid. 
Information.  Application  forms.  Write  DepL  21 B  National. 

1020  Broad,  Newark,  N.J. 

WORK  AT  HOME 

$30.00  WEEKLY  MAKING  Roses.  Easy,  Write  Studio  Com- 

pany,  Greenville  5,  Pa. 

$CASH,  MAKING  ORCHIDS.  Details  Free.  Write,  Boycan 
Industries,  Sharon  14,  Penna. 

INSTRUCTION 

FINISH  HIGH  SCHOOL  at  home,  spare  time.  No  classes. 
Diploma  awarded.  Write  for  Free  catalog.  Wayne  School, 
Catalog  HCH-44,  2527  Sheffield,  Chicago  14. 


1250  MOVIE  a    «L,    1250   AGES  & 

TV    PICTURES     W    BIRTHo/STARS 

Send  25^  for  everything  to 
LUCKY  STARS  G.  P.  O.  Box  738  N.Y.  1,  NYDepL507 


KEEP  YOUR  HAIR  LOVELY 

THE  HOLLYWOOD  WAY! 

•  •  •  • 

Do  as  4  out  of  5  top  Hollywood  Stars  do! 

use 

LUSTRE-CREME 
SHAMPOO 

Never  Dries  ...  it  Beautifies! 

Convenient  to  use  ...  in  Cream  or  lotion 
form.  Leoves  hoir  soft,  shining  .  .  .  eager 
to  curl. 

New  Super-Soft 

LUSTRE-NET 

Sets  Hair  to  Stay  ...  the  Softest  Way 

Super-soft-for  casual  hair  style.  Regular 
-for  curly  or  hard-to-manage  hair 

Get  tustra-Crame  Shampoo  and  Ludra-Net  Hair  Spray  at 


BEN  FRANKLIN  STORES 


73 


(Continued  from  page  52) 
most  mothers,  while  she  is  talking  things 
over  with  me,  she  is  trying  to  find  out 
the  right  and  wrong  of  them  herself.  It's 
one  of  the  reasons  why  this  story  is  so 
true  to  life  and  why  it's  so  great  to  do." 

In  another  CBS  Radio  drama,  The  Ro- 
mance Of  Helen  Trent,  Peter's  wife, 
Marian  Russell,  is  the  seventeen-year-old 
Shari,  niece  of  Kurt,  devoted  to  Helen, 
trying  to  find  her  way — ^just  as  Skip  is 
trying  to  find  his — in  a  troubled  grown-up 
world.  Marian  is  twenty-five,  small  and 
graceful,  of  Polish-German  background. 
Her  burnished  blond  hair  ripples  back 
from  a  widow's  peak  and  hangs  in  a 
longish  bob,  framing  blue-green  eyes,  a 
pretty  nose  and  mouth,  and  gardenia- 
fresh  complexion.  She's  happy  in  her  work, 
thinks  everyone  connected  with  the  show 
is  wonderful,  has  a  special  fondness  for 
the  two  principals — Julie  Stevens,  who  is 
Helen,  and  David  Gothard,  who  is  Gil 
Whitney — and  for  director  Ernie  Ricca. 

How  did  these  two  begin  careers  that 
finally  brought  them  together  so  happily, 
and  how  did  they  fall  in  love  and  marry? 
The  story  starts  with  six-year-old  Peter 
as  a  Powers  child-model,  a  boy  who  grew 
up  later  in  radio  and  on  the  stage — even 
though,  in  the  beginning,  his  mother 
thought  that  the  stage  was  a  place  where 
actors  learned  such  dreadful  ideas  as 
staying  up  all  night  and  living  danger- 
ously. Another  mother  suggested  that 
there  might  be  a  part  for  Peter,  then 
eleven,  in  an  Ethel  Barrymore  play,  about 
to  open  on  Broadway,  and,  reluctantly, 
his  mother  took  him  to  audition. 

The  play  was  "Whiteoaks"  and,  when 
he  got  the  part,  and  they  later  went  on 
tour,  she  discovered  that  actors  were 
hard-working  people  who  didn't  dare  stay 
up  all  night  and  had  no  greater  oppor- 
tunity than  anyone  else  to  live  danger- 
ously. 

Marian's  professional  career  was  slower 
in  starting — at  sixteen,  to  be  exact,  in 
Chicago,  although  in  Detroit,  where  she 
lived,  she  had  always  been  in  demand  for 
singing  stints  at  various  civic  organiza- 
tions and  in  amateur  and  semi-profes- 
sional theatricals.  "I  can  hardly  remember 
a  time  when  someone  wasn't  calling  on 
my  father,  or  me — or  both  of  us — to  sing, 
but  we  weren't  professionals.  Incidentally, 
I  used  to  listen  to  radio  shows  on  which 
Peter  was  playing  regularly — Madge  Tuck- 
er's  Coast  To  Coast  On  A  Bus,  and  the 


Heavenly  Twosome 

lovely  Let's  Pretend  series.  And  I  used  to 
tune  in  Helen  Trent  when  I  came  home 
from  high  school  in  Detroit  for  lunch, 
never  dreaming  that  someday  I  would  be 
there  among  all  those  interesting  people." 

In  Chicago,  Marian  studied  drama,  was 
in  some  plays,  began  a  radio  career, 
doubled  in  night  clubs  as  cigarette  girl, 
lived  in  a  grubby  little  room  in  a  theat- 
rical boarding  house  they  called  "Crest- 
fallen Inn."  Loved  it,  and  was  happy 
there.  When  her  mother  came  to  visit 
and  saw  the  place,  she  sat  on  the  edge 
of  the  creaking  bed  and  cried,  begging 
her  daughter  to  come  back  home,  and  it 
was  difficult  for  Marian  to  convince  her 
that  nothing  mattered  so  much  as  the 
happiness  she  was  finding  in  learning  more 
and  more  about  acting.  No  one  else  in 
her   family   had   chosen   this   way   of  life. 

Eventually,  Marian  came  east  on  the 
straw-hat  circuit  of  summer  stock,  and 
finally  to  New  York,  where  she  and  Peter 
first  met  on  the  fairy-tale  set.  She  liked 
him  right  away,  but  had  no  idea  what 
he  thought  of  her,  just  kept  hoping  that 
this  nice,  rather  quiet  young  man  would 
ask  her  out.  He  didn't.  He  almost  seemed 
to  ignore  her.  "No  wonder,"  she  says  now. 
"I  was  going  through  one  of  those  silly 
young-girl  periods  when  I  was  being  very, 
very  dramatic  about  everything.  I  was 
always   'on.'   Who   could   stand   that?" 

Peter  did  like  her.  "I  thought  she  was 
being  a  bit  hammy,  but  could  be  toned 
down."  He  was  shy,  just  the  same,  about 
asking  her  for  a  date.  The  films  were 
completed,  and  still  he  hadn't  asked. 

They  kept  running  into  each  other, 
around  and  about  the  studios.  One  day, 
when  he  was  rehearsing  across  the  street 
from  the  studio  where  she  was  doing  a 
role  in  a  filmed  play,  he  pretended  that 
he  just  dropped  in  for  a  quick  visit.  En- 
couraged, she  sent  him  word  when  she 
was  about  to  open  in  a  play.  Opening 
night  he  sent  a  wire,  "Wow  'em.  Prin- 
cess." No  opening  now  is  complete  with- 
out the  same  message,  with  no  need  for 
signature.  The  telegram  was  on  her  dress- 
ing table  the  day  she  began  her  role  of 
Shari  in  The  Romance  Of  Helen  Trent — 
her  first  big  running  part  in  a  major 
dramatic  radio  serial,  although  previously 
she  had  played  a  second  lead  in  a  TV 
serial.  The  Greatest  Gift. 

A  few  months  later,  Peter  and  Marian 
became  engaged.  And,  the  day  after  he 
put   her   engagement   ring   on   her   finger, 


74 


Every  Woman 
Wants  My  Man- 

Why  do  so  many  marriages  go  on  the  rocks? 
What  makes  a  woman  covet  another's  hus- 
band? Why  do  married  men  "play  around"? 
These  are  some  of  the  questions  that  are  an- 
swered by  the  radio  program  "My  True  Story." 
And  they're  not  answers  that  are  born  in  a 
fiction  writer's  brain.  For  these  are  stories  of 
real  people — taken  right  from  the  files  of 
True  Story  Magazine.  They  make  exciting 
listening,  so  be  sure  to  hear  them. 

TUNE  IN  EVERY  MORNING  TO 

MY  TRUE  STORY 

American  Broadcasting  Stations 

"\  knew  my  husband's  mother  was  fully  capable  of  murder."  Read  "Home  Wrecker" 
in  June  TRUE  STORY  Magazine,  now  at  all  newsstands. 


Peter     and     Marian     decided     to     elope. 

Perhaps  Marian  had  read  too  many 
romantic  novels,  seen  too  many  movies, 
played  too  many  romantic  scripts.  She 
had  always  pictured  the  background  for 
a  honeymoon.  Snow-covered  landscape,  a 
great  blazing  fire  on  the  hearth,  a  bottle 
of  champagne  cooling  for  the  wedding 
supper.  December  15,  1950,  was  a  cold 
day,  but  there  was  no  promise  of  snow. 
She  had  telephoned  a  little  inn  at  New 
Paltz,  in  the  mountains  northwest  of  New 
York,  where  once  she  had  played  summer 
stock.  She  told  the  couple  who  ran  the 
inn  that  they  were  eloping  and  would 
be  arriving  by  night. 

Peter  had  rented  a  friend's  car,  and  they 
picked  up  another  friend  at  Poughkeepsie, 
New  York.  They  were  married  by  a  justice 
in  the  back  of  a  drugstore  in  the  town 
of  Hyde  Park,  and  one  of  their  witnesses, 
hastily  drafted  from  the  drugstore,  was  a 
man  who  had  been  happily  married  for 
fifty  years  (they  considered  this  a  good 
omen)  and  had  once  been  head  gardener 
for  the  late  Franklin  D.  Roosevelt  on  his 
Hyde  Park  estate. 

Leaving  for  New  Paltz,  suddenly  the 
snow  began,  a  soft  whiteness  that  en- 
veloped them  as  in  a  dream  world  at  first, 
then  a  real  blizzard  that  all  but  oblit- 
erated the  roads.  The  windshield  wiper 
of  the  rented  car  wasn't  working  and  the 
honeymoon  equipage  moved  slowly  as 
they  searched  for  the  road  among  the 
clumps  of  trees  on  each  side. 

By  the  time  they  reached  the  inn,  how- 
ever, they  were  held  in  a  white  spell  of 
quietness  and  beauty,  and  they  went  in  to 
find  a  roaring  fire  waiting,  and  a  bottle 
of  champagne  chilled  and  ready.  "It  was 
perfect,  all  as  if  planned,"  Marian  says. 

The  honeymoon  lasted  the  weekend,  be- 
cause Peter  was  due  back  for  a  television 
show  and  Marian  was  rehearsing  for  one 
of  the  crime  dramas.  Later,  when  she 
went  on  tour  with  "The  Giaconda  Smile," 
after  a  short  Broadway  run,  Peter  went, 
too.  That's  where  they  found  Winky, 
their  dog,  part  collie,  part  origin  unknown. 
Or  Winky  found  them,  we  should  say. 

They  had  been  hearing  a  low  moaning 
through  the  night,  and  finally  Peter  went 
outside  to  investigate.  There  was  this 
puppy,  about  six  months  old,  half-starved, 
plagued  with  fleas  and  with  thirst.  Peter 
tore  over  to  an  aU-night  hamburger  stand 
for  food.  Marian  gave  the  puppy  water  and 
bathed  him.  When  he  collapsed  into  a 
long  sleep  they  promptly  named  him  Rip 
Van  Winkle,  took  him  along  on  the  tour 
and  back  to  New  York  when  the  tour  was 
over.  "Winky"  is  a  real  "lens  hound"  now, 
pokes  his  paw  into  every  photograph. 

When  they  moved  into  their  apartment, 
they  had  suitcases,  a  TV  set,  and  Peter's 
tanks  of  fish.  They  added  the  essentials — 
a  bed,  table  and  chairs — and,  gradually, 
the  rest.  Fish  and  birds  and  the  dog  still 
dominate  the  small  apartment.  There's  a 
handsome  fish  from  the  Amazon,  alone 
in  a  tank  except  for  a  tiny  companion 
fish,  Tonto.  The  big  fellow  swims  to  the 
side  near  the  telephone  whenever  it  rings, 
as  if  to  join  in  the  conversation.  There's  a 
tank  filled  with  tiny  squirming  globules 
of  colored  fish,  some  of  them  phosphores- 
cent, glowing  strangely. 

Marpie,  a  blue  parrakeet  (and  a  social 
butterfly)  shares  a  cage  with  a  girl  friend, 
confusingly  named  George,  for  the  man 
from  whose  sixteenth-floor  fire  escape 
Marian  rescued  her.  "George  is  a  wild 
swamp  bird,  with  none  of  the  fine  manners 
that  Marpie  has,"  Marian  says.  "She's  get- 
ting tamed  a  little."  The  two  fly  out  of 
their  cages  to  perch  on  the  little  leaded 
panes    of   the   windows    and   peck   at   the 


putty,  no  doubt  believing  themselves  to 
be  authentic   woodpeckers. 

Since  they  believe  all  living  things  re- 
quire space  and  freedom,  Marian  and 
Peter  are  thinking  in  terms  of  a  house  in 
the  country  on  some  not  too  far-off  day. 
Maybe  only  for  weekends  and  vacations, 
maybe  for  all  the  year-'round.  Country 
houses  are  nice  for  kids,  too.  "A  girl, 
and  a  boy,  in  that  order,"  Marian  says 
firmly.  The  country  property  must  have 
a  pond  or  a  lake  so  the  kids  can  learn  to 
swim.  That's  all  settled. 

Their  apartment  is  in  a  renovated  stone 
New  York  house.  There's  living  room, 
bedroom,  kitchenette,  and — luxury  of  lux- 
uries— two  bathrooms.  Marian's  easel 
stands  near  the  window,  with  a  partly 
finished  oil  or  watercolor,  because  she 
never  has  time  to  finish  anything  at  a 
sitting.  Her  training  is  only  high-school 
art  class,  but  she  won  a  war-poster  contest 
then  and  shows  striking  talent.  A  half- 
finished  musical  composition  is  open  on 
her  piano,  waiting  for  her  to  have  enough 
time.  She  has  written  some  books  for  chil- 
dren, with  her  own  illustrations,  and  she 
hopes  to  have  them  published. 

Peter's  other  talent  is  writing  and  he 
has  sold  many  Western  tales  and  outdoor 
stories.  "I  always  know  when  Peter  has  a 
good  idea,''  his  wife  says.  "He  doesn't  talk 
about  it,  but  one  morning  he  starts  get- 
ting up  very  early  and  going  right  to  the 
typewriter.  He  does  this,  no  matter  how 
busy  he  is  with  other  things,  so  the  idea 
won't   get   away   from   him." 

They  divide  up  the  work  in  the  house, 
husband-and-wife  style.  Marian  does  most 
of  the  cooking,  Peter  usually  does  the 
dishes.  If  either  is  too  busy,  the  other  takes 
over.  They  both  clean  up  the  place. 
Marian  is  the  official  bookkeeper  and  ac- 
countant, but  they  both  have  a  flair  for 
business.  Jointly  they  invested  in  peanut- 
vending  machines,  and  Peter  went  around 
collecting  the  nickels  and  replacing  the 
peanuts.  When  the  cost  of  the  machines 
began  to  turn  profits  into  peanuts,  they 
got  out  of  the  business  while  they  were 
still  ahead.  They  own  some  small  houses 
in  Greenville,  S.  C,  and  an  apartment 
building  in  the  Bronx.  "Peter  is  a  very 
good  landlord,"  Marian  brags.  "He  fixes  a 
lot  of  things  himself,  and  he's  fair  with  the 
tenants." 

One  of  their  savings  accounts  is  marked 
distinctly,  "South  African  trip."  That's 
their  dream  right  now.  They  have  a  fund 
for  improving  and  investing  in  real  estate, 
one  for  family  emergencies.  They  handle 
their  money  and  their  affairs  like  solid 
citizens.  Hardly  the  "dangerous  living" 
and  the  rest  of  it  thai  Peter's  mother  once 
feared. 

What  is  it  like,  then,  to  be  seventeen- 
year-old  Shari  in  The  Romance  Of  Helen 
Trent,  and  various  other  women  in  vari- 
ous other  radio  and  TV  roles,  and  stiU  to 
be  Mrs.  Peter  Fernandez,  housewife  and 
cook   and   keeper   of   accounts? 

"Wonderful,"  says  Mrs.  Peter  Fernan- 
dez. "I  feel  like  two  women.  Marian 
RusseU,  actress,  doing  the  things  she  has 
wanted  to  do  all  her  life.  And  Peter's  wife, 
making  a  home  and  helping  to  build  for 
a  long  and  happy  life  together." 

What  is  it  like  to  be  teen-age  Skippy 
in  The  Right  To  Happiness,  frequently 
playing  other  roles  in  other  shows  and, 
in  addition,  to  be  the  responsible  head 
of  a  household,  a  business  man,  and  hus- 
band of  a  talented  young  actress  whose 
own  life  is  filled  to  the  brim  with  many 
interests? 

"Great,"  says  Peter  Fernandez.  "Even 
when  people  occasionally  get  confused  and 
call  me  'Mr.  Russell.'  " 

The  Prince  and  the  Princess,  exercising 
the  right  to  happiness,  now  and  ever  after 
— or  a  reasonable  facsimile  of  same! 


Dollars  Can't  Buy 
a  Finer  DeodorantI 


\0^ 


oo- 


o^ 


.\os^ 


AO^ 


a\1 


oo 


v/ 


os^e 


sVicW 


clothes 


_  GENUE.  HARMUSS  .0  *i"  °" 

•  FRAGRANT  and  luxurious  as  a  lipstick 

•  SURE  PROTECT/ON, 


^HRlFn 


°"  day  /one 


■k 


'9  stick 


/o. 


*'«  for 


'^°nths 


Iander 

m^   CHLOROPHYLL 

STICK  DEODORANT 


A'  al/  5  &  10  cent  stores 


$500 


00     PAID 

for  your  Child's  Photo 


CASH  payments  made  for  children's  photos,  all  types, 
ages  1  mo.  to  18  yrs.  by  national  advertisers.  Hundreds 
selected  every  month  for  use  in  advertising.  Send  ONE 
small  photo  for  approval.  Print  child's  and  mother's 
name,  address  on  back.  Also  2  FREE  gifts  for  photos 
selected.  Returned  2  v/eeks.  NO  OBLIGATION. 
AD-PHOTOS,    6087-HF    Sunset,    Hollywood    28,    Calif. 


U   you   vrear  sizes 

121/2  to  26V2  send  for 

Style   Catalog.  Terrific  values  — 

dresses  from  $2.98  up:  also  suits. 

sportswear,  corsets,  slips,  etc. 

GRACE  SMART,  Dept.G6,Hanever,Pa. 


Never  a  dull  moment 
when  you're  bright  Rl  nNllr 
Be  a  gay  blonde  charmer — today! 


TURN  "so-so"  hair  glamour- 
bright  and  see  how  exciting 
life  can  be!  With  Marchand's 
Golden  Hair  Wash,  you  can 
lighten  just  a  shade  or  go 
dashing,  dazzling  blonde  — 
safely,  easily  at  home.  Or  add 
sunny  highlights,  gleam  dark 
hair  with  bronze.  Golden  Hair 
Wash,  complete  in  one  pack- 
age, has  been  the  favorite 
home  hair  lightener  for  over 
50  years.  Lightens  arm  and 
les  hair,  too. 


At  drugstores 
everywhere 
75«^  and  $1.00, 
plus  tax 


MARCHAND'S  GOLDEN  HAIR  WASH 


75 


Close  to  Each  Other 


76 


(Continued  from  page  39) 
who  is  in  commercial  art,  is  dark  and 
handsome,  with  deep  brown  eyes,  and 
wavy  brown  hair.  Together,  they  make 
an  attractive  couple.  Together,  they 
have  two  TV  receivers,  six  radios,  two 
toasters,  two  vacuum  cleaners,  two  ro- 
tisseries,  two  phonographs — and  even  two 
identical  400-day,  glass-enclosed  clocks. 

"Until  we  married,"  Melba  points  out, 
"we  both  had  our  own  apartments,  inde- 
pendent households.  As  we  later  discov- 
ered, we  had  been  living  just  a  block  apart 
in  the  Village,  though  we  didn't  meet  for 
years — but  that's  not  unusual  in  New 
York." 

"I  had  a  letter  from  a  friend  of  mine, 
Ed  Ross,"  Gil  remembers.  "He's  a  cor- 
respondent for  Time  in  their  Los  Angeles 
bureau.  Ed  told  me  all  about  Melba. 
That  she  lived  near  by.  That  she  was 
beautiful.  That  she  was  an  actress.  And 
intelligent.  He  suggested  that  I  give  her 
a  ring.  Then  he  added,  in  a  footnote,  that 
he  didn't  know  Melba!  Actually,  she  was 
a  friend  of  a  friend." 

Gil  phoned  Melba  and  asked  for  a  date, 
but  she  turned  him  down.  That  was  in 
spring  of  1954,  and  Melba  was  busy.  She's 
always  had  many  friends  and  little  time. 
Then,  as  now,  her  work  on  Search  For  To- 
morrow required  her  to  rise  at  6:30  A.M. 
for  an  eight  o'clock  rehearsal — and  that 
means  early  to  bed.  Also,  she  doesn't 
like  blind  dates.  So  it  was  easy  for  her 
to  turn  Gil  down.  On  the  other  hand,  Gil 
— a  major  in  the  Air  Force  Reserve — has 
flown  and  fought  in  two  wars,  so  he  was 
prepared  to  lay  a  lengthy  siege.  He  kept 
calling  back  at  two-  or  three-week  in- 
tervals. 

"We  got  to  know  each  other  fairly  well 
over  the  phone,"  Melba  explains.  "And  it 
developed  that  we'd  both  been  in  Europe 
and  the  Orient  and  we  were  both  partic- 
ularly fascinated  by  Japanese  customs  and 
art.  So  one  evening — it  was  late  August 
by  then — he  phoned  early  and  I  told  him  I 
was  busy,  but  why  didn't  he  drop  over  for 
a  half-hour  before  I  went  out?  He  did — 
and  I  was  still  no  more  impressed  than  I 
had  been  by  his  phone  calls.  It's  so  odd, 
because  I  fell  head  over  heels  in  love  on 
our  actual  first  date!" 

That  came  within  a  week,  when  Gil 
phoned  again  and  asked  her  to  a  dinner 
party  at  his  apartment.  Melba  said  that 
she  had  a  tentative  date  but  would  phone 
back.  "He  asked  me  to  bring  along  a 
Japanese  game  he'd  seen  in  my  apart- 
ment," she  recalls.  "I  misunderstood  and 
thought  he  said  that  he  was  giving  a  Jap- 
anese dinner  party  and  that  intrigued  me, 
so  I  accepted  his  invitation." 

There  were  several  couples  there  and,  as 
it  turned  out,  only  one  extra  man — Gil 
himself.  There  was  no  Japanese  food,  only 
American  steak  and  salad.  After  dinner, 
there  was  no  talk  of  the  Orient.  Instead, 
Gil  pulled  out  a  projector  and  showed 
pictures  of  damage  to  his  cottage  at  East 
Hampton. 

"It  was  shortly  after  the  hurricane 
'Carol,'"  Melba  relates.  "And  I  learned 
from  the  conversation  that  Gil  was  very 
much  interested  in  boats  and  fishing  and 
just  living  on  the  shore.  This,  too,  left  me 
cold,  for  I'd  never  cared  much  for  the  sea. 
But  Gil  did  all  the  cooking  and  serving 
that  night  and  pulled  a  real  switch  in  re- 
fusing to  let  his  female  guests  'help'  with 
the  dishes.  That  was  a  sign  of  real  char- 
acter." 

It  turned  out  to  be  a  long  evening.  After 
the  party,  Gil  and  Melba,  alone,  took  a 
long  walk  and  talked.  They  stopped  at 
one  of  the  caffe  espresso  places  in  the  Vil- 
lage and  sipped  coffee  and  talked.     They 


walked  back  to  Melba's  apartment  build- 
ing and  sat  at  the  foot  of  the  stairwell  and 
talked  some  more. 

Gil  learned  that  Melba  had  several 
Broadway  plays  and  many  TV  produc- 
tions to  her  credit.  That  she  was  a  grad- 
uate of  Stanford  University,  where  she 
made  Phi  Beta  Kappa.  That  she  was  born 
and  raised  in  Willard,  Utah,  at  the  mouth 
of  Red  Rock  Canyon.  That  her  forbears 
were  Mormon  pioneers  who  had  trekked 
over  the  mountains  in  covered  wagons. 
That — like  Melba  toast  and  peach  Melba — 
she  was  named  after  the  famous  opera 
singer,  Nellie  Melba.  Melba,  in  turn, 
learned  that  Gil  was  a  New  Yorker.  That 
he  had  studied  art  and  designing  at  the 
Art  Students'  League  and  New  York  Uni- 
versity. That  he  was  an  Air  Force  pilot 
in  World  War  II  and  the  Korean  War.  That 
he  had  earned  many  medals  (including  the 
Purple  Heart,  Distinguished  Flying  Cross 
and  Air  Medal)  and  that  he  had  been  shot 
down  over  Belgium  and  lived  in  the 
underground  for  six  months.  They  talked 
of  his  interest  in  fishing  and  boating,  cook- 
ing and  photography.  Melba  learned  that 
he  was  unattached  to  any  other  woman. 
Melba  says,  "I'd  met  men  who  were  in- 
telligent— and,  certainly,  lots  of  personal- 


-VACATION    TREAT!- 


Color  pictures  ond  vitol  data  of 

ten  Daytime  Drama  stars  .  .  . 

cover  portrait  and  brand-new  story 

of  Tommy  Sands  .  .  .  plus  many  more 

in  July  TV   RADIO   MIRROR 

at  your  newsstand  on  June  6 


ity  boys,"  says  Melba.  "But  Gil,  in  addi- 
tion to  the  other  things,  struck  me  as  a 
person  with  heart." 

It  was  on  a  Thursday  that  they  got  to- 
gether. Gil  tried  to  make  a  date  for  the 
next  evening,  but  Melba  was  busy.  On 
Saturday,  she  had  a  yachting  date  for  the 
weekend,  and  Gil  took  her  to  the  train 
station.  He  wanted  to  ride  along  with 
her  out  to  Long  Island,  where  she  was  to 
meet  friends,  but  she  wouldn't  let  him. 

"That  was  'The  Long  Weekend,'  "  says 
Gil.  "Melba  told  me  she  would  be  home 
as  early  as  possible  Sunday,  so  I  began 
phoning  early  Sunday  morning.  Her  an- 
swering service  kept  reporting  that  she 
was  still  out  of  town.  I  called  every  half- 
hour,  and  it  was  sometime  in  late  after- 
noon they  told  me  that  she  was  back.  Well, 
I  didn't  even  call  Melba.  I  was  with  some 
friends,  but  I  just  said,  'Goodbye,'  and 
began  running!  I  ran  all  the  way  to  her 
building  and  up  four  flights  of  stairs  to 
her  apartment." 

"He  came  in  wet  and  breathless,"  Melba 
recalls.  "It  was  love,  and  so  quick.  It 
had  been  the  same  for  me.  I  had  spent 
most  of  the  weekend  explaining  to  my 
hosts  that  I  had  to  be  back  in  Manhattan 
early,  and  I  got  them  to  drop  me  near  a 
railroad  stop  so  I  could  get  home." 

From  that  Sunday  on,  Melba  and  Gil 
were  going  as  steady  as  Niagara  Falls.  Gil 
says,  "It  meant  a  different  kind  of  life  for 
me.  Most  of  my  dates  were  the  kind  who 
steered  me  into  El  Morocco  or  Sardi's  or 
other  popular  Manhattan  places.  But 
Melba  prefers  picnics.  She  lilies  to  fix  up 
a  basket  and  get  into  the  car  and  drive 
into  the  country.  Melba's  got  a  built-in 
'divining  rod'  for  locating  picnic  spots.  We 
can  be  driving  along  a  busy  highway  and 


she'll  say,  'Let's  turn  off  here.'  We  do, 
and  it  may  look  like  nothing,  but  we  keep 
going  a  few  more  minutes  and — sure 
enough — there's   a  glade   and  brook." 

Melba  likes  picnics  the  year  around. 
From  March  through  November,  she 
keeps  going,  making  a  fire  to  keep  warm 
when  necessary.  If  the  weather  is  biting 
cold,  she'll  settle  for  eating  in  the  car. 

Evenings  in  the  city  were  usually  spent 
at  the  theater.  "That's  about  the  time  my 
office  began  to  catch  on,"  Gil  says.  "I'd 
order  theater  tickets,  and  they'd  always 
ask  whether  it  was  a  personal  or  business 
expense.  It  was  almost  always  personal, 
and  they  began  to  get  that  knowing  look. 
Of  course,  we  were  always  late  for  the 
theater.  We'd  get  started  at  dinner  early 
enough,  but  get  to  talking  and  forget  the 
time." 

The  picnics  and  theater  were  a  matter 
of  catering  to  Melba's  interests.  Melba 
returned  the  favor  by  sharpening  pencils 
for  Gil  when  he  worked  evenings.  And 
she  posed  for  a  portrait,  on  which  Gil  did 
over  the  lios  fourteen  times.  "I  just 
couldn't    catch    her    mouth,"    he    says. 

"Maybe  that's  because  we  were  talking 
so  much,"  Melba  notes.  "We  talked  con- 
tinuously for  two  years.  The  day  we  mar- 
ried, I  lost  my  voice." 

The  decision  to  marry  was  brought  on 
by  circumstances  similar  to  the  day  they 
had  realized  they  were  in  love.  In  late 
August  of  last  year,  Melba  accepted  a 
weekend  invitation  to  a  friend's  home  in 
Connecticut.  "We  had  thought  and  talked 
about  marriage,"  Gil  recalls,  "but  never 
got  to  the  point  of  actually  making  the 
crucial  commitment.  But,  when  Melba 
went  out  of  town,  I  began  to  feel  des- 
perate. And,  when  Sunday  morning  came, 
I  began  to  phone  frequently  to  find  out  if 
she  had  returned."  It  was  raining  and  he 
was  in  his  apartment  a  block  away.  When 
Melba  returned,  he  came  running  over 
and  up  the  steps,  arriving  winded  and 
soaked  again.  "I  said  something  like, 
'That's  enough  of  this.  Let's  get  right 
out  of  here  and  get  married  this  minute.' " 
Melba  shared  his  sentiments,  but  they  al- 
lowed a  few  days  for  preparation. 

"We  decided  to  elopd,"  Melba  says,  "and, 
by  that,  I  mean  elope  from  the  big  cere- 
mony and  customs.  I've  never  held  with 
the  expense  and  big  show  of  weddings.  It 
is  our  philosophy  that  marriage  should  be 
for  just  two  people.  Gil  himself  said, 
when  we  talked  about  the  wedding,  'I  feel 
that  I  could  just  hold  your  hand  and  say, 
"I  marry  you."  and  that  would  be  it.'  Well, 
we  didn't  get  that  off-beat.  I  sat  down 
and  wrote  Mother  in  California,  and  Gil 
wrote  his  mother  in  Rome.  And,  the  fol- 
lowing weekend,  we  rode  off  quietly,  teU- 
ing  none  of  our  friends,  and  got  married." 
Melba  came  out  of  her  building  that 
Saturday  morning  wearing  a  beige  chiffon 
wool  dress  and  carrying  a  bouquet  of  flow- 
ers. Gil  wore  a  brown  suit.  They  drove 
out  of  Manhattan  and  into  Long  Island, 
stopping  long  enough  in  one  of  the  sub- 
urbs to  say,  "I  do."  They  went  on  to  East 
Hamnton  to  spend  a  two-day  honeymoon 
at  Gil's  cottage. 

Halfway  to  the  cottage,  Melba  suddenly 
stopped  talking.  She  had  lost  her  voice. 
Gil  was  running  between  the  cottage  and 
drug  store  most  of  that  evening,  hoping  to 
find  a  medicine  that  would  help  Melba's 
throat.  Nothing  helped  until  the  follow- 
ing afternoon,  when  Gil  proposed  a  picnic 
— and  her  voice,  miraculously,  came  back. 
"Talk  about  looking  glamorous  on  your 
honeymoon!"  Melba  laughs.  "We  took 
Gil's  boat  to  a  tiny  island  for  our  picnic. 
Well,  I  was  huddled  up,  worrying  about  a 
sunburn    and    getting   a    chill.    So    I    was 


li 


wearing  a  floppy  straw  hat  and  I  was 
wrapped  in  blankets.  But  it  was  worth  it. 
Gil's  little  island  was  intriguing.  It  was 
about  a  half-mile  long  and  only  a  couple 
hundred  yards  wide.  Nothing  but  sand 
and  shells  and  birds.  That's  where  we 
had  our  picnic,  and  it  was  like  being  on 
the  moon." 

Monday  evening,  they  returned  to  Man- 
hattan, for  Melba  had  a  telecast  on  Tues- 
day. "We  couldn't  quite  decide  hew  to 
announce  our  marriage  to  friends,"  Gil 
reminisces.  "I  tried  reverse  techniaue. 
I'd  phone  them  and,  when  they  said,  'What 
you  doing,  Gil?'— I'd  answer,  'Oh,  I'm  just 
sitting  here  talking  to  my  wife,'  and  then 
wait  for  the  double-take.  Melba  was 
direct.  To  the  first  person  she  called,  she 
announced,  'I've  got  some  shocking  news. 
I  suggested  that  'shocking'  was  a  little 
strong." 

Gil  moved  into  Melba's  apartment  in 
person— and  that's  about  all.  He  had  been 
sharing  his  apartment  with  an  airline  pilot, 
and  he  continued  to  pay  his  share  of  rent 
just  for  the  sake  of  having  a  place  to  store 
his  possessions.  Melba  had  a  two-roorn 
apartment  with  very  little  closet  and 
drawer  space.  "I  couldn't  bring  more  than 
a  couple  of  suits  with  me,"  says  Gil. 
"When  a  handkerchief  went  to  the  laun- 
dry, that  was  okay.  But,  when  it  came 
back,  there  was  no  place  to  put  it!  Be- 
sides," he  adds,  "I  brought  a  'trousseau'  to 
the  marriage,  which  makes  me  an  excep- 
tional husband.  During  my  second  war, 
the  Korean,  I  was  a  little  more  judicious 
about  the  souvenirs  I  brought  home.  In 
Tokyo,  I  had  bought  a  ninety-nine-piece 
set  of  Noritake  china— the  best  made  in 
Japan— a  set  of  lead  crystal,  linen  and 
other  good  things." 

Gil  and  Melba  have  just  recently  begun 
to  use  these  precious  items.  It  wasnt 
until  late  last  February  that  they  moved 
into  a  new  Riverside  Drive  apartment  with 
room  to  "housekeep." 

Melba  and  Gil  like  to  entertain  with 
dinner  parties.  Usually,  Melba  does  the 
cooking,  although  occasionally  Gil  dons 
the  chef's  hat.  Gil  makes  Oriental  dishes 
which  he  learned  about  in  Korea  and 
Japan.  He  has  a  cooking  advantage,  too, 
in  that  his  former  roommate  is  a  pilot  on 
an  international  airline  and  brings  in  fresh 
foods  from  abroad.  It  might  be  fresh  dill 
or  a  batch  of  snails  from  France  or  a  loaf 
of  bread  hot  out  of  an  Irish  oven.  Gil's 
keen  interest  in  food  has  led  him  to  join 
the  exclusive  Wine  and  Food  Society  of 
New  York.  As  a  club  member,  he  is  in- 
vited to  a  special  tasting  affair  six  or  sev- 
en times  a  year.  Melba  goes  along  al- 
though she  really  prefers  simple  cooking. 
But,  when  it  comes  to  Japanese  culture, 
she  fully  shares  Gil's  enthusiasm.  "I  be- 
gan collecting  Japanese  carvings  and 
screens  and  so  forth  when  I  visited  Tokyo 
with  a  USO  unit,"  she  explains.  "Once  in 
a  while,  Gil  and  I  have  tea  with  a  real 
Japanese  tea  set  and,  very  often,  we  wear 
our  Happi  coats." 

Happi  coats  are  loose,  silk  Japanese 
robes.  Gil  brought  back  several  and  he 
shares  them  with  Melba.  Although  they 
look  exotic,  the  inscription  on  one  is  that 
of  the  chief  of  a  fire-fighting  unit.  During 
Gil's  service  abroad,  he  once  volunteered 
to  help  Japanese  fire-fighters  put  out  a 
blaze,  and  the  robe  was  their  gift  to  him. 
In  their  Happi  coats,  surrounded  by  the 
possessions  both  have  collected  during 
their  travels,  Melba  and  Gil  look  forward 
to  a  larger  home  in  the  future,  as  their 
family  grows.  It  seemed  that  their  own 
"search  for  tomorrow"  had  reached  ful- 
fillment when  they  found  each  other,  just 
a  block  away.  But,  for  Melba  and  Gil,  the 
search  has  only  begun.  There's  a  whole 
lifetime  ahead  for  being  close  to  each 
other — always. 


draw  me 

you  may  win  a 
$375.00  scholarship 
in  professional  art 


Winner  gets  a  complete  art  course 
— free  training  for  a  career  in 
advertising  art,  illustrating  or 
cartooning.  You  are  taught,  indi- 
vidually, by  professional  artists 
on  the  staff  of  world's  largest 
home  study  art  school. 

Many  successful  artists  today 
have  studied  with  this  school.  For 
over  40  years  it  has  been  prepar- 
ing talented  beginners  for  careers 
in  art.  It's  an  accredited  member 
of  the  National  Home  Study 
Council. 

As  winner  of  contest,  you  also 
get  a  complete  set  of  drawing  sup- 
plies and  a  series  of  valuable  art 
textbooks.  Try  now  for  this  free 
art  course! 


DRAW  THIS  GIRL'S  HEAD 

5  inches  high.  Use  pencil. 
Drawings  for  June  1957 
contest  must  be  received 
by  June  30.  None  returned. 
Winner  notified.  Amateurs 
only.  Our  students  not 
eligible. 


ART   INSTRUCTION,  INC.,  STUDIO  5397 

500  South  4«h  Street,  Minneapolis  15,  Minnesota 

Please  enter  my  attached  drawing  in  your  "Draw  Me" 

contest.  (PLEASE  PRINT) 


_>GE_ 


Address.^ 
City 


_Zone_ 


Occupof(on_ 


-Counfy— 

Sfa»e_ 

_Phone_ 


77 


(Continued  from  paqe  19) 
couldn't  help  worrying.  During  rehearsals, 
it  became  plain  that  Charlie  was  lively 
and  volatile.  I  felt  sure  he  was  the  kind 
of  fellow  who  liked  to  do  the  town  every 
night,  and  would  expect  his  young  ladies 
to  be  sparkling  every  hour  on  the  hour. 
But,"  she  confesses  slyly,  "I  also  couldn't 
help  being  attracted  to  him,  and  I  decided 
that,  if  it  was  sparkle  he  wanted,  then 
sparkle  was  what  he'd  get." 

For  a  while,  their  dating  had  to  be  on 
a  catch-as-catch-can  basis,  since  she  was 
making  the  night-club  circuit  and  he  was 
busy  staging  shows  in  Hollywood,  New 
York  and  Las  Vegas.  In  fact,  it  was 
settling  down  into  a  "wild  telephone  af- 
fair." (It  still  is — since,  now  that  they're 
married,  they  stiU  call  each  other  twice 
a  day,  even  when  thousands  of  miles 
apart!) 

Then  suddenly,  in  New  York,  where  she 
was  doing  her  own  TV  show,  Patti  dis- 
coverd  another  side  to  the  man  she  had 
suspected  of  being  a  rambling  Romeo.  She 
picked  up  the  phone  one  day  to  hear, 
with  joy  and  amazement,  his  familiar 
voice  announcing,  "I'm  in  New  York." 
Before  she  could  squeeze  a  word  from 
her  choked-up  throat,  he  had  blithely 
rung  off  with  a  "Be  right  up."  This  pleas- 
ant surprise  was  topped  an  hour  later  by 
another  even  more  startling.  "I'm  not  in 
the  mood  to  go  out  tonight,"  he  confided 
as  they  sat,  luxuriating  in  each  other's 
presence.  "I  wonder  if  you'd  mind  terribly 
if  we  stayed  here  and  spent  the  evening 
alone?" 

"But  you  must  be  hungry,"  Patti  said, 
not  sure  she  was  hearing  right. 

"I  am  hungry,"  he  said  simply  and  with 
the  intensity  that  only  a  true  lover  can 
manage  without  sounding  ridiculous.  "I'm 
hungry  for  the  sight  of  you  ...  to  look 
at  you  as  you  are,  instead  of  imagining 
you  from  a  voice  on  the  telephone.  With- 
out you,  I'm  empty,  rootless  .  .  ." 

1  hat  night  they  talked  seriously  about 
themselves —  "and  watched  television, 
without  seeing  a  thing  but  the  future 
opening  for  us  like  a  path  out  of  the 
woods  .  .  ." 

Like  a  path  out  of  the  woods.  It's  a 
phrase  which  suggests  how  much  both 
had  grown  aware  of  loneliness — and,  per- 
haps, of  being  lost — apart  from  each  other. 
Both  had  known  the  pain  and  sense  of 
failure  that  accompanies  divorce:  She, 
from  an  early  marriage  to  Jack  Skiba; 
Charlie,  from  previous  marriages  to  Betty 
Jo  Brown,  a  non-professional,  and  Betty 
Hutton.  Aside  from  the  deep  physical 
attraction  that  pulsed  between  them,  all 
the  incentives  were  there  for  both  to 
yearn  for  a  good  marriage,  to  seek  solace 
and  fulfillment  in  it,  to  work  at  it. 

"Not  that  we  always  agree,"  protests 
the  Irish  half  of  the  O'Currans,  his  green 
eyes  glinting  merrily.  "We  have  words, 
like  anybody  else.  For  instance — " 

"For  instance,  you  called  me  fat,"  ac- 
cuses Patti,  with  a  flash  of  her  own  fine 
eyes. 

"I  called  you  Pat,  and  still  do.  It's  my 
pet  name  for  you." 

"You  said  I  was  dowdy  and  deserved  a 
name  like  Clara  Ann." 

"Hold  on  there!  I  merely  said  you 
ought  to  dress  more  like  Patti  Page  and 
less  like  Clara  Ann.  Clara  Ann!  The  first 
time  I  heard  your  mother  call,  'Clara 
Ann,  the  telephone,'  I  nearly  fell  off  my 

■f    chair." 

V        With  each  affectionately  breaking  in  on 

R  the  other,  the  story  of  their  marriage 
emerges.  It  took  place  "at  the  most  in- 
opportune time  for  Charlie,"  last  Decem- 

78 


Love  Is  a  Song 

ber  28,  in  the  Las  Vegas  home  of  Wilbur 
Clark,  owner  of  The  Desert  Inn,  where 
Patti  usually  appears  twice  a  year.  Ray 
Ryan,  Charlie's  good  friend,  was  the  best 
man,  while  Patti  was  attended  by  Mrs. 
Edward  Barrett,  a  dear  friend  from  Chi- 
cago. Patti's  manager.  Jack  Rael,  the  man 
to  whom  she  pays  trijaute  as  "the  engineer 
and  pilot"  of  her  career,  flew  in  from 
Florida.  She  describes  her  dress  as  "in- 
formal, at  best,"  with  a  white  satin  skirt, 
white  cashmere  sweater  and  white  satin 
pumps — but,  according  to  her  groom,  "she 
looked  every  inch  a  bride."  Ray  Ryan 
offered  his  house  in  Palm  Springs  for 
their  honeymoon  ...  a  three-day  honey- 
moon which  they  were  grateful  to  get, 
since  Charlie  was  due  at  Paramount 
Studios  for  work  on  Hal  Wallis'  new  film, 
"Loving  You." 

On  the  second  night,  they  took  a  moon- 
lit walk  over  the  sands.  Patti  turned  her 
head  to  stare  at  the  gaunt,  misshapen 
beauty  of  a  Joshua  tree  outlined  stark 
against  the  backdrop  of  hills.  "How  peace- 
ful and  healing  it  is,"  she  whispered — 
and  promptly  stumbled  on  a  slab  of  stone 
buried  in  the  sand.  Charlie  caught  her 
and  asked  if  she  were  hurt.  "No,"  she 
laughed,  "I  have  a  feeling  this  rock  has 
a  meaning  for  us — a  lucky  meaning.  I'm 
going  to  call  it  our  Blarney  Stone." 

A  sudden  intuition  swept  over  Charlie. 
"Then,  on  this  rock,  we'll  build  our  home," 
he  said.  "God  bless  you,  Patti,  for  making 
me  want  it  so."  Aad  that  is  exactly  what 
the  O'Currans  plan  to  do.  They  have  al- 
ready bought  the  property  owned  by  Ray 
and  are  now  giving  serious  thought  to 
the  size  and  style  of  the  house. 

"Nothing's  as  short  as  a  honeymoon," 
sighs  Patti,  "and  ours  was  just  three  days." 
On  January  3 — "E-Day,"  as  she  calls  it, 
referring  to  Elvis  Presley,  who  stars  in 
"Loving  You" — they  returned  to  Holly- 
wood. Charlie  went  to  work  at  Paramount, 
and  Patti  went  to  work  on  Charlie's  apart- 
ment, where  they  had  set  up  temporary 
housekeeping.  "In  the  afternoon,"  she  re- 
calls with  a  mischievous  smile,  "Pat 
Swedlow — she  and  her  husband,  Dave,  are 
among  our  closet  friends  here — drove  me 
out  to  Paramount  to  pick  Charlie  up.  I'd 
been  sweeping,  mopping,  hammering  and 
hanging  and  what-not  all  day.  I  had  no 
makeup  on  and  we  were  both  in  sweaters 
and  slacks,  since  we  hadn't  expected  to  go. 

"I  sent  Charlie  a  message  that  we  were 
waiting  in  the  car.  A  few  minutes  later, 
he  came  out  and  said,  'Elvis  and  Hal  in- 
sist on  meeting  you.'  I  gave  a  shriek,  'Oh, 
no!  Not  in  these  clothes!'  Charlie  just 
stood  there,  grinning  as  if  to  say,  'Serves 
you  right  for  dressing  like  Clara  Ann 
again,'  and  I  could  almost  hear  Mr.  Wallis 
and  young  Elvis  and  the  rest  of  the  com- 
pany thinking,  'So  this  is  the  mouse  poor 
Charlie  married!'  " 

This  is  a  conclusion  stoutly  denied  by 
Charlie,  while  Elvis,  queried  over  the 
phone,  simply  said,  "What  a  dream!" 
Nevertheless,  Patti  insists  that  "great 
transformations"  have  taken  place  in  her 
since  falling  in  love  with  Charlie.  What 
she  doesn't  know,  and  what  all  Charlie's 
friends  testify  to,  is  that  equally  great 
transformations  have  been  taking  place  in 
her  husband.  "He  was  always  winning, 
gifted,  popular.  But,  since  meeting  Patti, 
all  his  qualities  seem  to  have  fused  to- 
gether and  gained  new  strength,"  says 
Dave  Swedlow.  To  this,  Ray  Ryan  lends 
support  with  a  simple,  "He's  found  his 
North   Star  .  .  ." 

The  newlyweds  had  one  blissful  month 
together  before  Patti  shoved  off  for  Las 
Vegas  on  the  first  stop  of  a  night-club 
tour.  In  that  brief  interlude,  Patti  got  her 


long-awaited  crack  at  keeping  house  for 
Charlie,  and  he  got  his  first  taste  of  what 
family  life  with  Patti  will  be  like,  once 
they  leave  his  rented  apartment  for  their 
own  home  in  Palm  Springs.  "A  burned 
taste,"  quips  Charlie,  a  gourmet  who  likes 
big  dinners  starting  with  escargot  or 
hearts  of  artichoke  and  running  through 
several  wines. 

"It  was  merely  well-done,"  asserts 
Patti,  "and  just  what  he  needed — plain, 
home-cooked,  nourishing  and  balanced 
meals."  Privately,  she  concedes  that  "the 
first  one"  might  have  been  "just  a  mite" 
overcooked.  And,  privately,  Charlie  con- 
cedes that  he'd  been  too  enthralled,  watch- 
ing Patti  bustle  about  the  kitchen,  to 
know  whether  he  was  eating  steak  or 
fried  eggplant. 

There  came  a  morning  when  the  bride 
placed  a  luscious  pair  of  waffles  before  her 
groom.  Charlie's  eyes  goggled.  He  tasted 
and  smacked  his  lips.  "Honey,  you  are  a 
cook,  a  wonderful  cook,  and  I'll  shout  it 
from  the  housetops."  Sheepishly,  Patti 
confessed  the  truth.  They  were  "bought" 
waffles,  frozen  and  ready  for  the  toaster. 

While  she  has  given  him  a  strong  de- 
sire for  the  attractions  of  home  life,  he 
has  broadened  her  views  on  the  subject 
of  "nights  out."  They  agree  that  couples, 
no  matter  how  fervently  in  love,  should 
not  hibernate  after  marriage.  "It's  the 
surest  way  to  lose  zest  in  living  and  grow 
old  fast,"  Charlie  opines,  and  Patti  breaks 
in  with:  "When  you  have  such  varied  and 
interesting  friends  as  Charlie  has,  it's  a 
crime  not  to  see  them  often.  Before  we 
were  married,  Charlie  visited  me  in  Chi- 
cago and  brought  along  a  few  friends  who 
are  in  politics.  Before  I  knew  what  was 
happening,  I  found  myself  discussing 
things  like  housing  and  social  welfare  as 
if  I  knew  something  about  them." 

"For  a  girl  who  claims  not  to  know," 
Charlie  brags,  "she  held  the  floor  quite  a 
while,  and  everyone  listened  with  both 
ears.  Even  if  I  say  so  myself,  Patti  has 
a  keen  mind.  She  reads  diligently  and 
has  a  memory  like  a  steel  trap." 

His  wife's  popularity  with  his  friends  is 
a  source  of  continual  satisfaction  to 
Charlie.  Rather  boyishly,  he  enthuses 
over  the  time  Patti  first  met  his  circle  of 
friends.  It  was  Christmas,  two  years  ago, 
and  they  were  house  guests  of  the  Swed- 
lows  at  their  Palm  Springs  home.  Any 
doubts  Patti  might  have  had  about  "put- 
ting my  best  foot  forward,  for  Charlie's 
sake,"  were  soon  dispelled.  The  group 
literally  took  her  to  their  hearts  and, 
charmed  with  her  vivacity  and  verve, 
followed  her  lead  in  organizing  swim-  _, 
ming  parties,  horseback  jaunts  and  ex-  ■ 
ploratory  hikes.  "I  might  as  well  be  blunt  ll 
about  it,"  says  Charlie.  "I'm  one  of  those 
fellows  who  must  feel  proud  of  his  wife, 
and  I  sure  was  all  puffed  up  seeing  my 
girl  in  action." 

Patti's  current  tour  has  suspended  their 
building  plans  for  a  short  while,  but 
Charlie  has  volunteered  a  few  details.  "I  _ 
always  liked  the  desert  as  a  place  to  relax  1 
with  friends  and  have  some  fun.  Pat  made  j 
me  see  it  as  something  more  than  an 
escape  from  the  problems  of  work  and 
responsibility.  Through  her  eyes,  I've 
come  to  see  it  as  a  place  which  need  not 
be  barren,  a  place  where  life  and  love  can 
be  brought  to  bloom.  We're  going  to  raise 
our  family  there."  The  O'Curran  house 
will  be  ultra-modern,  as  befits  "the  new 
cities  coming  into  being  on  the  old  sands." 
There  will  be  lots  of  picture  windows  and 
at  least  one  room-length  sliding  glass  door 
overlooking  a  patio  and  swimming  pool. 
"We'll  start  with  seven  rooms — but,  as  Pat 


says,  'with  a  view  to  future  expansion.' " 
Why  expansion?  "Because,"  CharHe  ex- 
nlains  firmly,  "Pat  and  I  want  a  large 
family,  the  sooner  the  better.  In  fact,  she 
has  already  told  me  she  wants  five  chil- 
dren." The  O'Curran  clan  boasts  eight 
children,  most  of  whom  Patti  met  when 
she  journeyed  out  to  Atlantic  City  in 
New  Jersey  to  meet  Charlie's  family  last 
summer.  Patti's  grandmother,  when  she 
passed  away  this  December,  left  a  brood 
of  nine  living  children,  fifty-nine  grand- 
children, ninety-four  great-grandchildren 
and  thirteen  great-grandchildren. 

The  decoration  of  their  home,  in  spite 
of  Charlie's  genius  for  staging,  will  be 
left  pretty  much  to  Patti.  "Don't  forget  I 
married  an  artist,"  he  explains.  "You 
know,  Patti  was  working  as  a  staff  illus- 
trator at  a  radio  station  in  Tulsa  when  she 
was  discovered  as  a  singer.  Her  mother 
sent  me  a  painting  she  did  when  only 
thirteen.  It's  an  oil,  done  with  ordinary 
house-paint  on  canvas,  and,  in  my  humble 
opinion,  it's  quite  a  picture!" 

Charlie  thought  it  was  so  good  that,  over 
Patti's  objections,  he  hung  it  above  their 
couch,  and  he  says  it  will  occupy  an 
even  more  prominent  place  in  the  new 
home.  Furthermore,  he  vows,  he  will  not 
rest  until  she  gets  back  to  her  brush  and 
easel.  "This  is  not  a  case  of  taking  up  a 
hobby.  Pat  can  become  more  than  a  Sun- 
day painter.  She's  really  good,  and,  once 
we're  settled  in  the  desert,  I'm  sure  she'll 
get  a  great  achievement  out  of  this  art." 

Otill  sweet,  wholesome  and  friendly, 
Patti  has  matured,  "grown  more  wom- 
anly," as  her  family  and  friends  put  it. 
Her  romance  and  marriage  to  Charlie  has 
not  been  without  its  pangs  of  pain.  After 
her  engagement  was  announced,  one  fan 
club  sent  her  a  letter,  begging  her  "not 
to  marry  a  divorced  man."  It  went  on  to 
say,  "Your  reputation  and  life  up  to  now 
is  without  a  stain.  You  must  keep  it  that 
way.  He  may  be  a  wonderful  guy,  but 
it  just  won't  do  for  our  Patti!" 

It  was  a  challenge  Patti  determined  to 
meet  head-on.  Immediately,  she  sat  down 
and  wrote  her  fans  the  truth:  "Although 
it's  been  kept  pretty  quiet  for  reasons  I 
don't  understand,  because  I've  never  hid- 
den the  facts,  I  want  you  to  know  that  I 
myself  am  a  divorced  woman.  It  hap- 
pened before  I  got  to  be  the  Patti  Page 
you  admire,  so  I  guess  there  was  no 
point  in  making  a  fuss  about  it.  I  was 
married  in  1948  to  Jack  Skiba.  It  was  a 
brief  marriage  and  not  successful  for 
either  of  us.  I  am  not  blaming  anybody. 
Perhaps  I  was  too  young  to  make  it 
succeed.  But  there  was  no  sense  in  spoil- 
ing both  our  lives  and  so  we  agreed  to 
go  our  separate  ways. 

"This  is  one  of  the  reasons  I  did  not 
care  to  let  my  name  be  used  in  publicity 
romances  or  any  other  kind  until  I  met 
and  fell  truly  in  love.  This  is  the  real 
thing,  and,  like  any  normal  woman,  I 
want  to  marry  the  man  I'm  completely  in 
love  with — have  a  family  of  my  own. 
Surely  there  can  be  no  harm  in  that. 
Surely  my  fans  want  me  to  be  happy." 

Her  fans  have  responded  swiftly  and 
loyally  to  this  appeal.  To  quote  Jack 
Rael:  "Her  fans  grow  beyond  all  ex- 
pectations, and  they  all  ask  for  more  in- 
formation on  Charlie.  Many  of  them  say 
right  out,  'Be  happy,  Patti — that's  all  we 
ask.  We  love  you,  and  we're  ready  to  love 
Charlie,  and  if  you  have  children,  we'll 
love  them  too  .  .  .'" 

Proud  of  her  husband,  as  he  is  of  her, 
Patti  enjoys  answering  these  requests  for 
information  about  Charlie.  She  takes  pains 
to  list  his  impressive  credits  as  choreog- 
rapher, dance  director  and  stylist  of  song 
specialties,  and  never  fails  to  include  the 
fact  that  he  was  graduated  from  Star  of 


the  Sea  High  School,  in  Atlantic  City, 
with  cum  laude  honors,  and  that  he  began 
staging  vaudevi'le  shows  at  so  young  an 
age  he  had  difficulty  evading  the  child 
labor  laws.  Charlie  danced  at  the  Folies 
Bergere  in  Par's  when  he  was  only  nine- 
teen, then,  on  his  return  to  this  country, 
tackled  Broadway.  He  and  the  Big  City  '-•it 
it  off,  right  from  the  start,  and,  by  1941, 
he  had  already  reached  the  position  of  a 
full-fledged   dance  director. 

In  1944,  Charlie  moved  on  to  Hollywood. 
His  first  big  number  was  the  staging  of 
the  Bing  Crosby-Jane  Wyman  dance 
routine  of  "In  the  Cool,  Cool,  Cool  of  the 
Evening,"  for  Paramount's  "Here  Comes 
the  Groom."  Since  that  time,  he's  done 
choreography  chores  for  more  than  fifty 
films,  and  for  such  top  stars  as  the  An- 
drews Sisters,  Bob  Hope,  Dinah  Shore, 
Leslie  Caron,  and  Dorothy  Lamour. 

Patti  herself  got  her  first  break  while 
still  in  her  teens.  A  singer  had  become  ill, 
and  the  Tulsa  radio  station  where  Patti 
was  working — as  an  artist — sent  out  a  call 
for  a  substitute.  Patti  was  reluctantly 
pushed,  by  friends  at  the  station,  into  the 
replacement  spot.  After  hearing  her  per- 
form, the  program  sponsor,  the  Page  Milk 
Company,  offered  her  a  contract.  Not  long 
after.  Jack  Rael,  a  cousin  of  Benny  Good- 
man, was  passing  through  town  and 
caught  her  show.  He  signed  Patti  (by  then, 
she  had  taken  the  name  Patti  Page  in 
honor  of  her  sponsor) ,  assuring  her  she 
belonged  in  the  big-time,  an  opinion  that 
proved  to  be  right  many  times  over. 

Patti  was  soon  working  with  Frankie 
Laine,  then  became  the  summer  replace- 
ment for  Perry  Como,  for  whom  she  has 
tremendous  admiration.  Then,  like  a  bolt 
from  the  blue,  came  that  wistful  little 
dancing  dirge  of  the  gal  who  lost  her 
lover  to  a  friend,  "The  Tennessee  Waltz." 
In  quick  succession  followed  "Doggie  in 
the  Window"  (after  which  she  named  her 
Yorkshire  terrier,  at  present  in  the  care 
of  friends  in  New  York),  "Go  On  With 
the  Wedding,"  and  others.  Her  latest  hit, 
"A  Poor  Man's  Roses"  and  "The  Wall,"  is 
one  of  her  greatest,  according  to  Mercury 
Record  officials. 

And  Patti's  night-club  popularity  is 
stronger  than  ever.  A  quote  from  Variety 
on  her  new  act,  broken  in  at  The  Desert 
Inn  in  Las  Vegas,  says:  "Success  of  show- 
case is  partially  due  to  the  brilliant  stag- 
ing of  her  groom,  Charles  O'Curran. 
Dramatic  lighting  and  wise  pacing  blend 
well  with  the  friendliness  of  Miss  Page's 
delivery  .  .  .  and,  as  always,  she  sounds  as 
if  she  enjoys  singing  every  note." 

Patti's  comment  on  this  tribute  was 
characteristically  refreshing.  "Wasn't  I  the 
smart  one  to  marry  Charlie!  Now  I'm 
getting  top-flight   staging   done   for  free." 

The  O'Currans  are  bubbling  over,  these 
days,  with  all  sorts  of  plans:  A  home  in 
the  desert,  a  family,  bringing  their  dog 
"Window"  out  to  live  with  them,  a  second 
honeymoon  at  Lake  Tahoe  ("and  we  don't 
mean  three  days") ,  a  cruise  on  Patti's 
Rage  II  (a  fifty-foot  Chris-Craft  boat 
that  sleeps  twelve,  and  which  is  presently 
in  drydock  at  Miami  Beach),  a  movie  for 
Charlie  to  direct  (perhaps  produce),  and 
— last  but  far  from  least — Patti's  new 
CBS-TV  show  (debuting  in  September), 
to  be  called  The  Big  Record,  featuring 
guest  stars  with  Patti  as  femcee. 

The  Book  of  Life?  The  Book  of  Love? 
The  Book  of  Happiness? 

"Listen,"  cry  the  O'Currans,  "before  we 
met  each  other,  we  were  practically  il- 
literates in  all  three  of  these  books.  Now 
we've  begun  to  learn  the  wisdom  of  live, 
love  and  be  happy.  Give  us  another  thirty 
years,  and  we'll  write  you  a  book  on  the 
subject  that  will  be  worth  any  young 
lover's  reading.  Meanwhile,  we  thank  God 
for  each  other  .  .  ." 


let 
MILES® 

NERVINE 

^-^^-N.^^  you  relax! 


The  rush  of  modern 
Jiving  occasionally 
leaves  everyone  a  little 
too  tense  and  taut.  Next  time, 
do  as  so  many  busy,  modern 
women  do . . .  let  miles  nervine 
help  you  calm  down  and  relax — 
to  feel  your  best  again.  Also,  use 
gentle,  but  effective  MILES  nervine 
whenever  you're  too  restless  to 
sleep  at  night.  MiLES  nervine 
relaxes  you,  lets  you  sleep — 
naturally.  Follow  the  label  — 
avoid  excessive  use.  MiLES 
NERVINE  has  a  long  record 
of  satisfaction  in  use.  Buy 
it  in  effervescent  tablets  or 
liquid  at  any  drugstore. 

Soothe  nerves  .  .  . 
feel  cairn  and  tranquil  ^mmrnmi^ 
with  I 

Miiis  NERVINE 


Al  any  drugstore  .  . 

No  Prescription  Needed! 

Miles  Laboratories,  Inc.,  Elkhart,  Ind. 


79 


(Continued  from  page  42) 
telling  the  story  of  his  life  back  home. 
And  Grandma  Long,  a  spirited  eighty -two 
years  old,  was  knitting  away  there  in  the 
family  living  room — on  a  stage  at  NBC 
Studios  in  Burbank! — just  like  she  be- 
longed there.  .  .  . 

Which,  in  a  way,  she  did.  A  moving 
van  had  driven  up  to  the  front  door  of  the 
Ford's  two-storey  gray  frame  house  in 
Bristol,  not  many  days  before,  and  had 
taken  all  the  living-room  furnishings — the 
damask  drapes,  the  floral-print  sofa,  the 
rugs,  the  mahogany,  the  family  upright 
piano,  and  the  treasured  "Thomas  Jeffer- 
son" clock — to  the  studio. 

The  clock  had  caught  Tennessee  Ernie's 
eye,  right  off,  when — in  a  state  of  shock — 
he'd  walked  into  the  studio  next  door  to 
his  ...  to  find  his  old  living  room  had 
been  transported  there.  "That's  my  broth- 
er Stanley's  picture — and  that's  the  clock 
my  dad  bought  from  a  lady  back  home — " 
Ernie  said  dazedly  .  .  .  and,  overcome  with 
emotion,  he  took  a  familiar  little  white- 
haired  woman  close  to  his  heart. 

Watching  back  in  Bristol — this  was  the 
life,  too  ...  of  those  whose  lives  had,  at 
some  time  through  the  years,  touched  his 
own.  And  they  were  doing  a  lot  of  re- 
membering when.  .  .  . 

JKemember  when  Ernest  worked  at 
Hughes'  grocery,  the  day  he  broke  all  those 
eggs,  and  told  the  boss  he'd  work  over- 
time paying  for  them — at  ten  cents  an 
hour?  . . .  Remember  when  he  sang  tenor — 
then  bass — at  Anderson  Street  Church? 
.  .  .  Remember  when  the  curtain  of  the 
high-school  auditorium  caught  fire  one 
night — and  Ernest  shinnied-  up  the  curtain 
and  put  it  out?  .  .  .  Remember  when.  .  .  . 
This  was  his  life.  And  this  was  his  home 
town.  Bristol,  Tennessee  ...  a  very  good 
place  to  live.  Here  he  was  born — in  a  little 
four-room  frame  house  shaped  like  a  box- 
car, over  on  Anderson  Street.  And  here, 
growing  up,  he'd  planned  to  remain. 
Dreaming  toward  the  day  he  could  own 
his  own  farm,  here  among  the  green  roll- 
ing hills   and   the  silver   streams. 

But  Ernest  Ford's  voice  was  God-given, 
and  intended  to  carry  far  beyond  the  hills 
in  his  native  Tennessee.  A  voice  to  be 
heard  throughout  the  land  .  .  .  and  a  voice 
to  echo  all  the  good  things  of  that  land. 
He'd  come  back  home  from  the  Air  Force, 
bringing  his  pretty,  pert  brunette  bride, 
Betty,  with  him.  And  he'd  proudly  wheeled 
into  Main  Street  of  Bristol,  Tennessee-side. 
But,  one  day  soon,  he  had  adventured  on. 
Ernie  hadn't  had  enough  money  for  a 
farm,  anyway.  But  he  had  eleven  hundred 
dollars  of  severance  pay  in  the  family 
poke — and  he  and  Betty  were  all  fired  up 
about  homesteading  in  Alaska,  pioneering 
the  country's  last  great  frontier.  In  the 
Sunday  supplement  of  a  newspaper,  they'd 
read  a  glowing  account  of  the  opportunities 
there  for  young  people  who  were  "hard 
workers,"  homesteading  lucrative  five- 
acre  tracts.  Excitedly,  Betty  had  written 
the  Chamber  of  Commerce  in  Anchorage 
for  further  details.  Days  passed  .  .  .  and 
still  no  reply. 

Until  Alaska  was  heard  from,  the  two 
pioneers  decided  to  go  back  to  California, 
where  Ernie  had  been  stationed  in  the 
Air  Force,  and  try  radio.  As  he'd  put  it, 
logically  enough,  at  the  time,  "And  if  we 
still  want  to  go  to  Alaska,  we'll  be  closer 
there." 
There,  too — although  he  could  not  know 

T    it  then — he  would   be   closer  to  the  fame 

V    some  day  intended  for  him.  .  .  . 

B  But  the  roots  were  here  in  Bristol,  Ten- 
nessee. Here  was  his  voice,  and  the  heri- 
tage he  puts  so  richly  into  song. 

80 


Tennessee's  Ernie 

Here,  he  was  early  "foundationed"  for 
the  future  by  the  love  and  teachings  and 
inspiring  example  of  the  most  wonderful 
parents  a  boy  ever  had:  Attractive,  viva- 
cious Maude  Ford,  with  all  her  warmth 
and  love.  And  Frnie's  tall,  distinguished- 
looking  father,  Clarence  Ford,  a  tower  of 
gentleness  and  strength. 

Theirs  was  a  happy  home  life  during 
important  formative  years  when  Ernie  and 
his  brother,  Stanley,  who's  twenty-two 
months  older,  were  growing  up  in  the 
two-storey  house  on  Windsor  Street.  They 
were  a  close  family,  sharing  every  adven- 
ture— such  as  the  remembered  day  Ernie's 
dad  brought  home  that  fabulous  old  clock. 

Clarence  Ford  had  seen  the  clock  in  a 
little  old  lady's  house  on  his  route  one 
day  when  he  was  carrying  the  mail.  "Hasn't 
run  for  over  fifty  years,"  she'd  shrugged, 
when  he  asked  about  it.  Just  an  old  piece 
of  family  junk  handed  down.  Some  day 
she  was  going  to  get  rid  of  it. 

"I'm  pretty  good  at  fixing  things.  I'll 
give  you  two  dollars  for  it,"  Ernie's  dad 
had  said  then.   And  she  had  agreed. 

In  the  workshop  at  home,  an  excited 
little  boy,  with  big  brown  eyes  and  a 
Buster  Brown  haircut,  hovered  around  his 
dad,  watching  him  take  the  clock  apart 
and  put  it  together  again.  He  made  a 
pendulum,  fixed  some  weights — and,  on 
the  back  of  the  dial,  he  found  Thomas 
Jefferson's  name  written  in  pencil.  "I 
talked  to  the  lady,"  Clarence  Ford  recalls, 
"and  she  said  Jefferson  and  her  grand- 
father were  old  friends.  The  clock's  well 
over  a  hundred  years  old — we  think  it 
belonged  to  Thomas  Jefferson.  As  a  kid, 
Ernie  was  always  telling  people  about  it," 
his  dad  grins. 

Ernie  was  proud  to  have  a  father  who 
was  a  postman,  who  knew  everybody  in 
town — and  was  known  in  return.  His 
father  had  one  mail  route  for  fifteen  years, 
and  sometimes  Ernie  would  go  trotting 
along  beside  him  when  he  carried  the  mail. 
As  his  dad  says,  "He'd  trot  along  and,  when 
we  got  close  to  the  grocery  store  on  the 
route,  he  would  trot  ahead — and  order  his 
favorite  cherry-blossom  soda  pop." 

Cherry-blossom  pop  ...  a  Thomas  Jeff- 
erson clock  .  .  .  the  memories  of  childhood. 

Here  in  his  bedroom  upstairs  in  the 
old  Ford  home,  a  boy  of  eleven  had  finally 
mastered  Let  Me  Call  You  Sweetheart" 
on  a  new  trombone.  Here,  in  the  sunny 
kitchen,  Ernie  had  learned  to  bake  his 
favorite  gingerbread — "and  I  still  like  to 
cook,"  he  says  now. 

Surrounded  as  he  was  by  so  much  love 
and  family  affection  at  home,  Ernie  was 
always  wanting  to  share  it  with  those  less 
fortunate.  One  day,  he  brought  in  a  little 
smudgy-faced  four-year-old  boy  to  be 
mothered.  As  Mrs.  Ford  says,  "They'd 
been  playing — and  playing  hard." 

"Mother,  this  is  Emmett  Carter,"  he  said, 
introducing  them.  "His  little  heart  hurts 
because  he  has  nobody  to  rock  him  to 
sleep.  His  father's  dead,  and  his  mother 
has  to  work  for  a  living.  She  never  has 
any  time  for  him  to  sit  in  her  lap  and 
rock.  I  told  him  my  mother  just  loves  to 
rock  little  boys  to  sleep.  Now,  Mother — 
you  will,  won't  you?"  Ernie  said  anxiously. 

"Of  course  I  will,"  she  assured  him. 

"Come  on,  Stanley,"  Ernie  said  to  his 
brother,  and  they  both  walked  out,  leav- 
ing Mrs.  Ford  and  Emmett  standing  there. 

"I  took  the  little  fellow  on  my  lap  and 
rocked  him  until  he  was  asleep,"  Ernie's 
mother  recalls.  From  there  on,  Emmett 
was  a  fairly  steady  customer.  The  four- 
year-old  would  show  up  at  the  back  door, 
saying,  "Mrs.  Ford,  could  I  sit  on  your 
lap — just  a  little  while?" 


As  Ernie  grew  a  little  older,  his  was  a 
concerned  eye  for  the  opposite  sex  in  the 
neighborhood,  too.  Particularly,  a  pretty 
little  girl,  \yith  curly  blond  hair  and  big 
blue  eyes,  named  Mary  Bray.  Ernie  had  a 
crush  on  her  that  was  no  less  acute  be- 
cause he  was  only  nine  years  old. 

"I  bought  Mary  a  forty-hine-cent  bottle 
of  cologne  once — the  largest  bottle  I  could 
get  at  the  dime  store,"  Ernie  recalls  now. 
"I  used  to  take  her  walking  up  and  down 
the  creek  bank,  pickin'  wild  flowers." 
Mary's  folks  had  some  cows  ("You  could 
keep  cows  at  the  edge  of  town  then") 
and  Ernie  remembers  he  was  always 
"walking  a  syrup  bucket  up  to  Mary's 
house  to  get  milk." 

He  showered  her  with  gifts  from  the 
five-and-ten,  and  one  Christmas  he  really 
outdid  himself,  appearing  at  Mary's  door 
with  a  package  he  could  barely  carry. 
"Ernest  was  carrying  groceries  at  S.  B. 
Hushes'  store,  making  his  spending  mon- 
ey," Mary  Bray  Smiley  says  now.  "He 
bought  me  a  big  mirror — it  must  have  been 
two  feet  high — with  a  picture  of  a  rose- 
covered  cottage  on  the  back." 

Ernest  made  a  dollar  working  Saturdays 
at  the  store,  sweeping  out,  carrying  pack- 
ages, and  helping  to  wait  on  customers. 
And  he'd  blown  his  week's  pay  check 
on  her. 

During  those  days,  Mary  remembers, 
his  generosity  was  only  exceeded  by  his 
energy.  "He  was  always  so  active — he 
never  did  sit,"  she  smiles.  "We  always 
called  him  'Ernest.'  The  'Ernie'  came  later, 
in  Hollywood.  He  was  always  playing  cow- 
boy then  and  talking  about  having  a  ranch 
someday,  and  he'd  go  around  in  jeans  and 
the  like,  looking  just  as  Western  as  he 
could." 

Jliven  then,  Ernest  Ford  was  developing 
into  quite  a  personality.  "He  was  always 
performing — he'd  have  us  laughing  all  the 
time.  Ernest  was  just  a  natural  talent, 
anyway,"  Mary  goes  on.  "Several  of  us 
used  to  walk  to  school  together,  and  Ernest 
would  entertain  us  all  the  way.  Talking 
and  singing  and  doing  monkeyshines." 

Ernie  was  a  performer  long  before  then, 
however — as  his  82-year-old  grandmother 
will  tell  you.  "Ernest  sang  'The  Old 
Rugged  Cross'  when  he  was  less  than 
three  years  old,"  Grandma  Long  recalls 
proudly.  "He  sang  it  at  a  church  con- 
ference— three  verses,  and  without  any 
prompting,"  she  adds  pertly. 

Ernest's  mom  helped  him  learn  "The 
Old  Rugged  Cross,"  but  only  for  home 
consumption,  and  there  were  mixed  emo- 
tions at  the  prospect  of  his  performing 
it  in  public — straight  through.  This  was  a 
favorite  hymn  around  the  Fords'  home 
"and  Ernest  automatically  picked  up  most 
of  the  words.  I  helped  him  some,  but  I 
had  no  idea  he  would  be  singing  in 
public."  Then,  one  day,  a  family  friend 
heard  little  Ernest  singing  the  verse,  and 
couldn't  believe  it.  "Maude,"  she  said, 
"we're  going  to  have  the  church  confer- 
ence soon.  There'll  be  hundreds  of  dele- 
gates there — and  I  want  them  to  hear  this 
child  sing!" 

That  appearance  his  mom  will  never 
forget:  "That  tiny  little  figure  standing 
on  a  table  in  the  big  main  auditorium  be- 
fore hundreds  of  people — singing  all  those 
words,"  she  says  now.  Years  later,  when 
Tennessee  Ernie  Ford's  Capitol  recording 
of  "The  Old  Rugged  Cross"  would  be 
sweeping  the  country,  this  picture  would 
come  home  to  her.  .  .  . 

Theirs  was  always  a  very  musical  house, 
anyway,  and  young  Ernest  grew  up  with 
an  appreciation  for  music.  His  brother 
Stanley    played    piano,    banjo — and    could 


get  Viy  picking  a  guitar.  Ernest  played  the 
trombone  and  a  half-hearted  violin.  "I'd 
have  to  make  him  practice  the  violin," 
Mrs.  Ford  says  now.  "I  shouldn't  have. 
But  I  thought  he'd  have  talent  on  the 
violin,  because  his  dad  was  pretty  good 
on  hoedown  stuff." 

In  deference  to  that  instrument,  Clar- 
ence Ford  insists.  "I  played  a  fiddle."  But 
he  could  really  bust  loose  on  "Arkansas 
Traveler"  or  "Sourwood  Mountain"  or 
"Soldier's  Joy."  The  Fords  and  a  group 
of  friends  had  a  musical  aggregation 
called  "The  Cornfield  Canaries."  They'd  get 
together  at  the  home  of  some  elderly 
couple  in  Bristol  who  could  use  a  little 
musical  cheer — "or  we  would  meet  in 
each  other's  homes  where  there  was  a 
piano."  Ernie's  dad  would  play  the  fiddle, 
Stanley  the  piano,  somebody  pick  a  gui- 
tar— "and  we'd  all  sing,"  Mr.  Ford  re- 
calls. 

On  a  balmy  summer  evening  in  Bristol, 
Tennessee,  the  voice  of  the  youngest 
"Cornfield  Canary"  would  filter  through 
the  chorus  of  "Shortnin'  Bread."  As  his 
former  Sunday  School  teacher.  Nan  Kin- 
kaid  McQuillan,  remembers  it,  "That  was 
the  first  time  I  knew  Ernest  could  really 
sing.  He  would  sit  outside  in  the  swing  on 
the  porch,  and  I'd  hear  him  singing  all 
the  songs  we  older  ones  were  singing  in- 
side— without  missing  a  verse." 

To  hometowners,  it  was  increasingly 
apparent  that  Clarence  Ford's  boy  had 
something  that  "stood  out."  As  one  of 
them  puts  it,  "He  always  stole  the  show 
wherever  he  appeared."  What  Ernest  had — 
besides  a  basic  talent  and  all  that  energy 
— was  the  magic  of  showmanship,  what- 
ever his  audience. 

His  was  a  varied  audience.  "He'd  finagle 
the  lead  in  a  play  or  operetta  at  school," 
his  dad  grins  now.  He  sang  every  Sunday 
in  the  choir  at  Anderson  Street  Metho- 
dist Church.  He  would  go  caroling  on 
Christmas,  when  the  choir  would  pile  into 
a  borrowed  truck  and  cruise  around 
Bristol  serenading  the  orphanage,  the  old 
folks'  home — wherever  people  needed  holi- 
day cheer.  Songbook  in  hand,  he'd  go 
with  others  in  the  congregation  to  the 
town  iail  and  sing  hymns. 

And  he  was  a  smash  hit,  that  first  Sun- 
day he  soloed  in  church.  Nan  McQuillan 
recalls.  "He  sang  a  hymn  called  'No  Long- 
er Lonely' — and  I  remember  somebody  said, 
'Nelson  Eddy  has  nothing  on  Ernest.' " 

Twenty  years  from  then,  Ernest  Ford 
would  be  coming  back  to  that  same  church 
and  singing  in  the  choir.  His  would  be  a 
television  audience  of  millions,  and  his 
Capitol  recordings  of  old  hymns  like 
"Rock  of  Ages"  would  be  selling  like 
hoecake  in  Tennessee.  Most  of  the  con- 
gregation would  have  known  him  since 
the  day  he  was  born,  and  they  wouldn't 
be  surprised  by  his  success.  They  always 
knew  Ernest  Ford  "had  something" — if 
he  could  just  channel  it. 

The  years  of  worshipping  at  the  Ander- 
son Street  Methodist  Church  were  to  play 
an  important  part  in  that  future.  Here  he 
sang  hymns  which  would  lead  to  a  place 
on  Cliffie  Stone's  Hometown  Jamboree 
program  .  .  .  which,  in  turn  would  lead 
eventually  to  a  world  jamboree  of  recog- 
nition for  Tennessee's  Ernest  Ford.  .  .  . 

Ernie  was  always  very  active  in  church 
work.  "He  was  very  good  about  never 
missing  Sunday  School  or  church,  even 
went  to  prayer  meeting,"  his  former  Sun- 
day School  teacher  affirms.  Was  he  a  good 
student?  Did  he  answer  the  questions  in 
class?  "His  brother  Stanley  always  knew 
the  answers  to  the  questions — Ernest 
wanted  to  take  up  the  collection,"  Mrs. 
McQuillan  laughs  now.  "He  had  to  be 
busy — always    j\imping    around." 

The  grass  roots  that  would  always  be 
Tennessee  Ernie  Ford's  grew  firmly.  Na- 


ture's setting  was  his  stage,  and  God's 
wonderland  his  theater.  He  worked  on 
his  cousin's  tobacco  farm  near  Fordtown. 
He  picked  corn  and  took  it  to  be  milled. 
He  helped  with  the  harvest.  He  went 
swimming  in  Muddy  Creek  and  fishing 
on  the  Holston  River  with  his  family.  As 
he  says  now,  "My  dad  taught  me  to  fish. 
He  grew  up  on  the  river." 

Someday — he  would  put  all  of  it  into 
song.  .  .  . 

"We  had  a  wonderful  life,"  his  dad 
says  now.  "We  never  had  any  money, 
but  we  had  a  lot  of  fun.  We  had  some 
great  vacation  trips." 

Out.  growing  up,  Ernie  had  no  dreann 
of  singing  fame.  In  his  opinion,  anybody 
would  have  been  out  of  their  cotton- 
pickin'  mind  to  ever  pay  to  hear  him  sing. 
"I  wanted  a  farm — and  I  finally  got  it  a 
year  and  a  half  ago,"  he  says  hanpily  now. 
Referring  to  the  540-acre  "farm"  he  owns 
in  Northern  California,  the  most  beautiful 
land  anywhere  .  .  .  short  of  back  home. 
Tennessee  was  too  far  away.  With  todav's 
daily  and  weekly  NBC-TV  shows,  "the 
place  I  have  now,  in  California,  is  too  far 
away.  I  can't  even  get  up  there  very  often," 
he  says  regretfully. 

The  irony  of  success.  Finally — the  farm 
he'd  always  dreamed  about  .  .  .  and  no 
time  to  go  there.  Now  he's  aiming  for  the 
day  he  and  his  family  can  enioy  it.  When 
his  two  boys,  Buck,  7,  and  Brion,  4,  can 
know  the  feeling  of  open  country  and 
their  own  good  earth. 

"My  daddy's  always  had  a  solution  for 
everything,"  says  Ernie.  "  'You've  got  to 
work — and  have  patience,'  he'd  say.  I'm 
working." 

Work  and  patience — the  tempo  of  a 
town  ...  a  good  place  to  live — Bristol, 
Tennessee.  .  .  . 

Ernest  Ford  never  thought  of  singing 
as  his  life's  work.  Not  even  when  he  won 
first  place  singing  in  the  regional  high- 
school  talent  meet.  "All  the  high  schools 
of  the  South,  Maryland,  and  Washington, 
D.C.,  competed  in  a  meet  in  Columbia, 
South  Carolina,"  his  Mom  remembers  well, 
"and  Ernest's  high  school  voice  teacher 
entered  him.  He  got  first  place — there  was 
no  second."  What  Ernie  remembers  mostly 
was,  "just  getting  to  go.  That  thrilled  me 
plenty — I'd  never  been  to  South  Carolina. 
The  trip  was  the  main  thing." 

He  was  studying  voice  by  then — from 
Mrs.  Schroetter,  head  of  the  voice  depart- 
ment at  Virginia  Intermount  Girl's  Col- 
lege. And  being  a  male  voice  in  a  girl's 
college  "worked  out  pretty  good,"  he  re- 
calls with  a  grin.  "She  put  on  various 
school  operettas,  and  guys  taking  private 
lessons  from  her  got  the  male  roles." 

In  the  choir  at  Anderson  Street  Church, 
it  was  apparent  young  Elrnest  was  getting 
some  professional  advice.  "One  day  he 
sang  the  hymn,  "Hold  Thou  My  Hand," 
Mrs.  McQuillan  remembers.  "The  next 
time  I  heard  him  sing  that  same  hymn,  it 
was  'Hold  Thou  My  Hawnd' — he'd  started 
taking  voice  lessons,"  she  twinkles. 

Ernie  sang  "On  the  Road  to  Mandalay" 
at  the  high-school  graduation  ceremonies 
that  year — but  there  were  no  scholastic 
honors  for  him.  He  was  still  too  active  be- 
ing active.  Nobody,  however,  had  to  burn 
the  school  down  to  get  him  graduated.  On 
the  contrary,  when  the  school  almost 
burned  down,  it  was  Ernest  who  extin- 
guished it.  "Ernest  and  a  friend,  Charlie 
Oakley,"  says  Mr.  Ford,  "wrote  the  senior 
class  song,  and  they  were  all  practicing  it 
that  night,  when  the  stage  curtain  caught 
on  fire.  They  told  me  later  that  Ernest 
climbed  up  the  curtain,  pulled  it  down  and 
stomped  it  out," 

Graduation  memories,  for  Ernest  Ford, 
would  be  many.  Like  playing  trombone  in 
the    high    school    band — and    parading    at 


The  big,  new  1957  edition  of 
TV-Radio  Annual  is  the  great- 
est ever!  It's  got  everything.  It 
covers  all  the  events  and  all 
the  history-making  moments  of 
all  the  great  shows  and  pro- 
grams of  the  year. 

Here  are  pictures,  as  well  as 
thumbnail  descriptions  of  all 
the  stars.  Here  are  the  behind- 
the-scenes  stories  of  all  the 
new  shows.  Here  is  news  .  .  . 
gossip  and  chit-chat  from 
coast  to  coast.  In  short,  here 
is  the  most  colorful  and  excit- 
ing book  imaginable. 

ONLY  50«  WHILE  THEY  LAST 

Get  your  copy  ol  this  bestseller  before  the  limited 
supply  is  exhausted.  Only  50*  at  all  newsdealers. 
Or.   if  your  newsdealer  is  sold  out,   mail  coupon 

with  50(?  today. 


TV-RADIO   MIRROR  RM-657 

205  E.  42nd  St.,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 

Send    me    TV-RADIO    ANNUAL    1957.    I 
enclose  50c. 


Name. 


Address. 


City. 


Please  Print 


.State. 


Elvis  Presley  Album 

A  Few  Copies  Left 

If  you  act  now  you  can 
get  a  copy  of  the  origi- 
nal Elvis  Presley  Al- 
bum. This  is  the  book 
that  made  history.  This 
is  that  book  that  is  now 
a  collector's  item. 
Here's  the  thrill-fUled 
story  of  his  life — over 
100  pictures.  Rush  25c 
for  your  copy — today. 
Bartholomew    House,    inc. 

St.,   New  York   17,   N.   Y.    WHILE  THEY  LAST 


ONLY    25< 


81 


YOU'D  NEVER  KNOW  I  HAD 


For  24  years  psoriasis  suf- 
ferers   have    learned    that 
Siroil  tends  to  remove  un- 
sightly external  crusts  and 
scales.    If    lesions    recur, 
light  applications  of  Siroil 
help  control  them.  Siroil 
■won't    stain    clothing    or 
bed  linens.  Offered 
on  2-weeks-satis- 
faction-or-money- 
refunded  basis. 

7^  i4aH44  U' 


SIROIL 


Write  for  NEW  FREE 
BOOKLET,  written  by 
REGISTEREDPHYSICIAN. 

It  answers  30  most  asked 
questions  about  psoriasis. 


\  SIROIL  LABORATORIES,  INC. 

I  Dept.  M-87  Santa  Monica,   Calif. 

I  Please  send  me  your  new  free  booklet  on  PSORIASIS. 

I  NAME 
Please  Print 


82 


PQEMSWANTED 

■      ^^  ^^  IWI  ^J  ^"'^  musical  setting  .  .  .  send 
~       ^  ^^  ^^  Poems    today.     Any   sebject. 

immediate   consideration.     Phonograph   records   made. 
CROWN  MUSIC  CO.,  49  W.  32  St.,  Stuilio  560,  New  York  1 


OLD  LEG  TROUBLE 


Easy  to  use  Viscose  Applications  may 
heal  tnany  old  leg  sores  due  to  venous 
congestion  of  varicose  veins,  leg  swell- 
ing or  injuries.  Send  today  for  a  FREE 
BOOK  and  No-Cost-For-Trial-pIan. 

R.  G.    VISCOSE  COMPANY 
140  N.  Dearborn  Street,   Chicago  2,  Illinois 


CROOKED 
TOES? 

This  highly  effective  device 
of  soft,  flexible  rubber  — 
Dr.  Scholl's  TOE-FLEX  — tends  to  gradually 
straighten  crooked  or  overlapping  toes  by  exerting 
an  even  outward  pressure.  Worn  invisibly.  Very  com- 
fortable. Sizes,  Small,  Medium,  Large.  Only  75^  each. 


TEXAS  LAKE 

On  Rio  Grande  River  near  Laredo.  Good  fishing, 
duck  hunting.  Lake  60  miles  long  11  miles  wide. 
Resort  site  $149.50.  Nothing  down,  $7.50  month. 
HomeSite  80  x  150,  $500.  $10.00  down,  $15.00 
month.  Vacation  spot  of  the  Southland.  Visit  old 
Mexico.  $1.00  U.  S.  currency  buys  $12.00  Mexican 
currency.  Land  adjoins  thriving  town.  Excel- 
lent stores,  churches,  schools.  Ideal  year  round 
climate,  healthy.  Friendly  people.  Great  future 
as  investment.  City  water  and  electricity  at 
every  tract.  No  better  for  retirement  or  vacation. 
Don't  overlook  this  opportunity.  Send  for  photos, 
maps,  literature.  Nothing  else  like  this  anywhere 
that  we  know  of.  You  will  love  it.  Hugh  Matlock, 
Department  Z-39,   Pipe  Creek,  Texas. 


WAKE  UP 
RARIN'  TO  GO 

Without  Nagging  Backache 

Now !  You  can  get  the  fast  relief  you  need  from 
nagging  backache,  headache  and  muscular  aches 
and  pains  that  often  cause  restless  nights  and  mis- 
erable tired-out  feelings.  When  these  discomforts 
come  on  with  over-exertion  or  stress  and  strain— 
you  want  relief— want  it  fast !  Another  disturbance 
may  be  mild  bladder  irritation  following  wrong 
food  and  drink  — often  setting  up  a  restless  un- 
comfortable feeling. 

For  quick  relief  get  Doan's  Pills.  They  work  fast 
in  3  separate  ways :  1.  by  speedy  pain-relieving  ac- 
tion to  ease  torment  of  nagging  backache,  head- 
aches, muscular  aches  and  pains.  2.  by  their  sooth- 
ing effect  on  bladder  irritation.  3.  by  their  mild 
diuretic  action  tending  to  increase  output  of  the  15 
miles  of  kidney  tubes. 

Find  out  how  auiclcly  this  3-way  medicine  goes  to 
work.  Enjoy  a  good  night's  sleep  and  the  same  happy 
relief  millions  have  for  over  60  years.  Ask  for  new, 
large  size  and  save  money.  Get  Doan's  Pills  today ! 


the  big  annual  "Dogwood  Festival."  Haunt- 
ing high-school  eateries  like  "Joe  Lipp's 
and  Ralph  English's — and  there  was  an- 
other place  over  on  Virginia  side  where 
you  could  get  a  big  bowl  of  chili  for  ten 
cents."  .  .  .  Like  all  the  boy  projects  he'd 
worked  on  in  his  room  at  home  through 
the  years  .  .  .  and  trying  to  explain  to  his 
grandmother  why  she  shouldn't  come  in 
and  "tidy  up"  and  remove  any  of  the  boy 
treasures. 

Grandmother  Long  was  horrified  at 
the  traffic  jam,  all  the  "junk"  that  kept 
piling  up  in  the  boys'  rooms.  "Maude,  I 
want  you  to  make  the  boys  let  me  clean 
up  their  rooms,"  she'd  say  from  time  to 
time. 

Then,  one  day,  she  took  the  issue  to 
Ernie's  brother,  who  settled  the  matter 
for  both  of  them.  "Stanley — I  want  to 
know  why  you  won't  let  me  clean  your 
room,"  she  demanded. 

"Well,  Grandma — I've  always  been 
taught  to  love  everybody  and  not  to  trust 
anybody,"  he  said. 

Caught  in  the  middle,  Ernie's  mother  said 
soothingly  "Well,  they'll  be  gone  some 
dav — and  then  you  can  clean." 

But,  on  graduation  day,  Ernest  Ford 
would  particularly  remember  the  annual 
football  game-to-the-death  between  Bris- 
tol, Virr^nia  and  Bristol,  Tennessee.  Battle 
of  the  orange-and-black  versus  the  white- 
and-maroon.  With  Ernest  in  his  maroon- 
and-white  band  uniform  marching  down 
Main  Street  playing  the  trombone  in  the 
Homecoming  Day  Parade.  .  .  . 

Another  homecoming,  both  Bristols 
would  be  turning  out  for  him.  Both  bands 
stepping  high,  batons  twirling,  parading 
for  him.  He  would  be  welcomed  by  the 
Governor  of  Tennessee,  and  he'd  ride  tri- 
umphantly down  Main  Street  in  an  open 
car,  flanked  by  his  mom  and  dad.  It  would 
be  "Tennessee  Ernie  Ford  Day"  in  the 
two  Bristols,  he'd  be  given  the  key  to  the 
city,  and  feel  ten  feet  tall.  .  .  . 

In  1937,  however,  Ernest  Ford's  future 
was  very  undecided.  And  nobody  could 
have  been  more  surprised  than  he  was 
when  Bristol's  radio  station  WOPI  wanted 
to  employ  his  voice.  "I  hadn't  thought  of 
radio  at  all.  The  way  that  happened,  the 
copywriter  at  the  studio's  wife  taught  me 
in  school.  I  read  fairly  well,  and  he'd  been 
out  to  school  a  couple  of  times  and  heard 
me.  One  day,  he  asked  me  if  I'd  ever  been 
inside  the  radio  station,  and  I  said  I  hadn't. 
'Why  don't  you  come  up  and  see  the 
studio,  and  read  some  copy  for  me?'  he 
said." 

So  Ernest  did.  "I  read  for  them — and  I 
was  in  radio.  And  I  was  enthralled.  I 
made  ten  dollars  a  week,  working  eight 
hours  a  day.  Staff  Announcer,  they  called 
me.  I  read  news,  weather  reports,  com- 
mercials— and  I  sang  with  records,  at  times, 
a  little  bit." 

"He  was  doing  commercials  for  the  J.F.G. 
Coffee  Company,"  adds  his  dad.  "He  had 
some  records  by  a  quartet  called  'The 
Coffee  Boys,'  and  Ernest  would  read  a 
commercial,  then  start  the  record  and 
sing  with  it.  He  got  hundreds  of  letters — 
even  then.  He  couldn't  understand  this, 
not  having  any  more  experience  than  he 
had.  And  they  would  write  such  flattering 
things,  Ernest  would  be  embarrassed  if  we 
wanted  to  read  them." 

With  the  encouragement  of  his  voice 
teacher,  Ernie  enrolled  at  the  Cincinnati 
Conservatory  of  Music  to  study  "some 
heavy  singin'."  His  teacher  pointed  out 
that  studying  classical  singing  could  do 
him  no  harm.  If  he  didn't  make  opera,  it 
would  help  him  develop  his  voice  as  a 
radio  announcer. 

At  the  Conservatory,  "Times  were  aw- 
ful hungry,"  he  recalls  now.  Ernie  ate 
at  a  place  called  The  Horn  Inn.  "It  was 
the  only  place  I  could  afford.  They  served 


a  big  cheeseburger  and  a  bottle  of  root 
beer  for  about  fifteen  cents.  Three  times 
a  day,  I  ate  cheeseburgers  and  washed 
them  down  with  root  beer.  I  went  home 
for  vacation,  and  I  had  my  bags  all  packed 
half-heartedly  to  go  back  to  school.  I 
knew  my  folks  coudn't  afford  it,  and  I'd 
run  out  of  money.  That  day  I  was  leaving, 
I  got  a  telegram  from  Atlanta,  Georgia's 
Station  WATL  offering  a  Job  as  staff  an- 
nouncer— and  I  headed  there,  instead. 

"In  Atlanta,  they  were  promoting  a 
'Miss  Atlanta'  contest,  and  every  afternoon 
I  had  to  interview  about  ten  pretty  girls 
.  .  .  and  they  paid  me  $21.50  to  do  it,"  he 
recalls  with  pleasure.  He  bought  his  first 
car  while  there,  a  used  business  coupe 
"in  which  the  oil  came  clean  through.  I 
used  five  quarts  of  oil  driving  to  my  next 
job — in  Knoxville." 

Before  too  long — in  1941 —  the  car  was 
making  its  maiden  run  down  the  Main 
Street  of  his  home  town  welcomed  by  a 
big  sign:  "Bristol  Va-Tenn  ...  A  Good 
Place  to  Live."  Alabama-bound  for  his 
basic  training  with  the  Air  Force,  Ernest 
Ford  knew,  with  a  familiar  fullness  of 
throat,  there  was  none  better. 

In  the  two-storey  house  on  Windsor 
Street  which  had  echoed  to  so  much  family 
music  and  laughter,  his  mom  and  dad 
helped  Ernest  get  off  to  the  service.  "Dad 
and  I  helped  him  dispose  of  things.  We 
sold  his  car  for  him,  and  we  helped  him 
pack  the  things  he  couldn't  take,"  his  mom 
says  with  emotion. 

Such  a  close  family,  the  Fords.  Stanley 
was  already  in  service.  Now  both  their 
boys  were  gone.  But  not  for  long.  .  .  . 

"When  Ernest  came  out  of  basic  train- 
ing, he  came  home  one  weekend,"  his  dad 
recalls.  "Ernest's  CO.  asked  him  if  he'd 
like  to  go  home — he  could  tell  he  was 
homesick.  'If  you  can  go  home  and  get 
back  by  five  o'clock  Monday  morning, 
you  can  go,'  he  told  him.  Then  he  asked, 
'Have  you  got  any  money?' 

"  'Two  dollars,'  Ernie  said.  So  his  CO. 
gave  him  twenty-five  dollars,"  his  dad  says 
appreciatively.  "The  next  train  wasn't  for 
four  hours,  and  Ernest  hitch-hiked  home — 
and  beat  the  train." 

That's  one  ride  Ernie  will  never  forget, 
either.  "I  hitch-hiked  from  Birmingham, 
Alabama — and  I  held  an  infant  in  my  lap 
all  night.  I  was  standing  outside  town,  and 
this  car  stopped  and  picked  me  up.  Why, 
I'll  never  know.  The  car  was  packed  with 
people.  I  held  a  little  ol'  baby  on  my  lap, 
all  crammed  up  in  that  car,  and  rode  for 
hours  and  hours." 

For  two  days,  there  was  music  in  the 
house  on  Windsor  Street  again.  A  house 
so  full  of  love  and  laughter.  .  .  . 

His  mother  went  to  the  train  with  him 
and  waited  while  Ernest  got  his  ticket. 
"Well,  Mom,  this  is  the  first  time  any  of  us 
ever  got  a  one-way  ticket,"  he  said. 

But  there  is  no  one-way  ticket,  when 
the  roots  are  home.  One  day,  four  years 
later,  Ernest  Ford  would  be  coming 
back  down  the  Main  Street  of  Bristol, 
Tennessee — "A  Good  Place  to  Live."  The 
sign  would  shine  brighter  than  ever,  wel- 
coming Ernest  and  his  pretty,  pert  bru- 
nette bride,  the  girl  so  merry  of  heart, 
whose  music  was  meant  for  his  own. 

They  would  talk  of  adventuring  to  Al- 
aska. Of  making  their  fortune  there.  But 
Fate,  restless  for  his  intended  destiny, 
would  have  other  plans  for  Ernest  Ford. 
Singing  of  the  good  things,  the  Godly 
things,  he  would  find  a  fortune  out  West 
— far  beyond  his  most  adventurous 
dreams.  .  .  . 

And  so,  one  February  day,  Clarence  and 
Maude  Ford's  boy,  Ernest,  took  his  bride 
and  left  the  archway  of  his  home  town  .  .  . 
taking  his  heritage  with  him.  The  heritage 
that  makes  Tennessee  Ernie's  voice  Amer- 
ica's voice  today. 


e4- 


PERMANENT   DARKENER  t,fl 

FOR  LASHES  AND  BROWS  ^p';:;;;^ 

•  NOT  AN  ANALINB  OYBl 

•  I  APPLICATION  lASrS  4  fo  5  WEEICSI 

Takes  iust  seconds  fo  opply . . .  stays  on  4  to 
5  weeksl  "Dork-Eyes"  is  the  perfect  way  to 
moke  eyelashes  and  brows  completely  noturol 
looking... and  it  will  not  horden  or  break 
themi  "Dark-Eyes"  is  NOT  A  MASCARAI 
Will   not  stick  to  eyelash   curler.    Eliminates 

the    bother    of    doily    eye    make-up. 

It  is  PERMANENT,  SWIMPROOF, 
SEND  rODAT  SMUDGEPROOF,  TEARPROOF,  and 
^W  SMEARPROOFI 

"'delay-      $'-2*  ^P'w  '"^^  •»  '«**"»  *"»' 
your  trial  order    j    j  ^^ j  variety  chain  stores. 

shipped  in  24  "^ 

hours'.  ^ 

■»DARK-EYES"  COMPANY,  Dept.  P-67 
3319  W.  Carroll  Ave.,  Chicago  24,  ill. 

I  enclose  25c  (coin  or  stamps— tax  included)  for 
TRIAL  SIZE  pkg.  of  "Dark-Eyes"  with  directions. 
check  shade:  Q  light  Brown  Q  Brown  D  "'«"•' 


Address- 


-State- 


CORNS 

Removed  by  Mosco.also  Calluses. 
Quick,  easy,  economical.  Just  rub  I 
on.  Jars,  35  ^,  60  ^.  At  your  druggist.  Money  refund- 
ed if  not  satisfied.  Moss  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

MOSCO 


•CORN^ 
REMOVER 


ANY  PHOTO  ENLARGED 

Size  8  X  lO  Inches 

on  DOUBLE-WEIGHT  Paper 

Same  price  for  full  length  or  bust 
form,  groups,  landscapes,  pet  ani- 
mals, etc.,  or  enlarecments  of  any 
part  of  a  Rroup  picture.  Original  is 
returned  with  your  enlargement. 

Send  No  Money  3  for$l 

Jnst  mail  photo,  nefrative  or  snap- 
Bhot  (any  size)  and  receive  your  enlargement, 
guaranteed  fadeless .  on  beautiful  double- weight 
portrait  quality  paper.  Pay  postman  67c  plus 
iwstasre— or  send  69c  with  order  and  we  pay  post- 
age. Take  advantage  of  this  amazing  offer.  Seiidyour  photostoday. 

Professional  Art  Studios.  544  S.  Main.  Dept.  37-G,  Princeton,  Illinois 


FAMOUS 

Swedish  Way! 

The  women  of  Scondinavio  have  always  been  envied  for  their  glor- 
ious blonde  hair.  Now,  without  tints,  rinses  or  thai  ugly,  bleached 
look,  you  con  safely  give  your  hair  the  radiant,  golden  shine  and 
shimmering  highlights  that  men  love!  Called  BLONOEX,  this  new 
Swedish  "lotion"  shampoo,  made  especially  for  blondes,  and  pre- 
pared at  home  — fresh  as  you  need  it— billows  into  a  richer,  gentler 
lather  that's  just  right  for  delicate  blonde  hair.  Contains  ANDIUM 
to  lighten  and  shine  as  tt  shampoos.  Woshes  oway  the  dingy  film 
that  keeps  hair  dork  and  dull-looking  — gives  il  lovely  lustre  and 
flattering  lightness.  Fine  for  children's  hair,  too!  Get  BLONDEX  todoy! 
At  10<,  drug  ond  department  stores. 


New^  Patterns 
for  You 


9183 — Loveliest   princess  lines  fashion 
the  sundress;  little  fitted  jacket  carries 
out  the  same  flattering  silhouette.    A 
Printed  Pattern  in  Misses'  Sizes  10-20. 
Size  16  dress  requires  4^^  yards  35-inch 
fabric;  bolero  1%  yards.  State  size.  35^ 

9317 — Sew-easy  with  our  Printed  Pat- 
tern!   Designed  to  flatter  the  larger 
woman — a  smart  fashion  for  all-season 
wear.  Women's  Sizes  36-52.  Size  36  takes 
41/4  yards  35-inch  fabric.  State  size.  35^r 

9171 — A  perfect  style  for  the  short- 
waisted,  full-figured  type — designed  for 
a  taller,  slimmer  appearance.  A  Printed 
Pattern  in  Half  Sizes  141/2-241/2. 
Size  161/2  takes  3%  yards  35-inch  fabric. 
State  size.  35(/' 


9171 

SIZES 
141/2—241/2 


Send  thirty-five  cents  (in  coin)  for  each  pattern  to:  TV  Radio  Mirror,  Pattern  Depart- 
ment, P.O.  Box  137,  Old  Chelsea  Station,  New  York  11,  New  York.  Add  five  cents  for 
each    pattern    for    first-class    mailing.     Be    sure    to    specify    pattern    number    and    size. 


83 


84 


Cora,Callous,Bunion 
P^in  Stops! 


y=sap£fi.F/isr^ 

-.NERVED£Pf> 
zORiUEF!  ^ 


No  waiting  for  relief  when 
you  use  Dr.  SchoU's  Zino-pads. 
They  stop  pain  at  its  source  .  .  . 
ease  new  or  tight  shoes  . . .  remove 
corns,  callouses  one  of  the  quickest 
ways  known  to  medical  science. 
New  skin-matching  color;  worn 
invisibly.  Try  them!  At  Drug, 
Shoe,  Department,  5-lOfl  Stores. 


DrScholls 

Zino-pads 


CHICK 


ASTHMA 
AGONY 

With  the  first  few  puffs  of  Dr.  R. 
Schiffmann's  Asthmador  Cigar- 
ettes you  get  relief  from  bronchial 
asthma  symptoms.  Aik  your  Druggiif 


ASTHMADOR  cigarettes 


FR£i 


MATERNITY 
STYLE  CATALOG 


BIG  96- page  illustrated  catalog.  Hun- 
dreds of  exclusive,  economy- priced 
Maternity  Fashions.  FREE  GIFT  CHECK 
with  catalog  gives  EXTRA  discounts  on 
first  order.  World's  largest  selections  — 
Maternity  dresses,  suits,  separates,  sports- 
wear, girdles,  bras,  lingerie.  $1.00  to  $20.00. 
Write  TODAY-CRAWFORD'S 
OepL  35,    8015  Wornall  Rd.,  Kansas  City  14,  Missouri 


SPARKLING 
^,        8x10 
"^^^  ENLARGEMENT 


FREE! 

On 

orders    of    2 

or 

more  we  will 

send      you      one 
sparkling  wallet 
sizeprintFREE. 

dnv  photo,  snapshot  or  negative  and  receive,  post- 
paid, vour  enlargement  on  double- weight  paper.  Original 
returned  unharmed.  Nothing  else  to  pay.  If  beautiful  hand- 
colorinE  is  dpcired  add  50c  for  each  orini  C.O.D.'s  ac- 
cepted on  orders  of  2  or  more,  plus  C.O.D.  charges.  Satis- 
faction Guaranteed.  QUALITY  VALUES,  STUDIO  33-C, 
5    BEEKMAN    STREET*    NEW  YORK   38,    N.   Y. 


TROUBLED 
WITH 

UNWANTED 
HAIR? 


IMAHLER'S  IN^ 

I     OEPT.  587-G 
\PRDVIDEHK  15.  R.  I. 


[  You  needn't  bel  Now  you  can 
remove    unwanted    hair    forever 

—  in  the  privacy  of  your  home 

—  with  the  famous  Mahler  Hair 
Removal  Epilator!  Acclaimed 
by  thousands  of  women  who 
have  discovered  how  Mahler 
destroys   the    hair    root    perma- 

I  nently!  By  following  our  Instruc- 
you,  too.  can  learn  to  use 
l^the    Mahler   safely    and    effi* 
^ciently!  Positive  money-back 
guaranleel  Act  todayl 

Tend  5t  for  illustrated  16-page 
booklet   "New  Radiant  Beauty    ' 


"""F''>'o"«'PSaRiASIS 

(SCALY    SKIN    TROUBLE) 

MAKETHEONE  J^D€RmOIL 

SPOT@ 

'    TEST -I '^ 


SEE  FOR  YOURSELF 

no  matter  how  long  you 

have  suffered.  Write  for 

FREE  book  on  Psoriasis 

and    DERMOIL    with 

actual  "belore — after" 

photo  record  of  results. 


\generous 
Atrial 


Don't  be  embarrassed 
with  Psoriasis,  the  ugly, 
scaly   skin   disease.   Try 
non- staining    DERMOIL. 

Amazing  results  reported 
for  over  22  years!  Many 
grateful  users  report  th< 
scaly  red  patches  on  body 
or  scalp  gradually  disappeared  and  thejf"^^^^^^  ■.•••^•^ 
again  enjoyed  the  thrill  of  a  smooth  clear  skin.  DERMOIL 
formula  is  used  by  many  doctors.  Must  give  definite 
benefit  or  your  money  back.  Make  our  famous  "One  Spot 
Test"!  SEND  10c  for  trial  bottle.  DERMOIL  sold  at 
Liggett  and  Walgreen  and  other  leading  Drug  Stores. 
Write  today  LAKE  LABORATORIES  Dept.3204 
D —     ,„»,     .. .. Station,     Detroit    27,     Mich. 


Dance  to  My  Dream 


Box     3925     Strathmoor 


{Continued  from  page   32) 
of    handicaps    defeated,    heartbreak    con- 
quered, disaster  valiantly  defiled. 

At  the  beginning,  there  was  a  little  girl 
in  the  kitchen  of  a  cold-water  flat  in  south 
Chicago.  She  stood,  tense  with  antici- 
pation, in  her  very  best  imitation  of  a 
ballet  dancer  waiting  for  her  music  cue. 
A  wind-up  Victrola  made  loud  scratch- 
ing noises,  working  toward  the  opening 
bar  of  music.  The  music  began,  and  the 
little  girl  danced  raptly. 

That  was  the  time  when  it  seemed  that 
the  Depression  would  drag  on  forever. 
Her  father  was  a  private  chauffeur,  and 
there  were  few  jobs  for  such  men  then, 
fewer  than  in  most  lines  of  work — and, 
when  June  Taylor  was  ten,  there  were 
unemployed  neople  by  the  millions.  She'd 
had  no  training  in  the  dance,  of  course. 
Unemployed,  her  father  couldn't  dream  of 
paying  for  such  luxuries.  But,  on  certain 
rare  and  special  occasions,  she  had  seen 
dancers  in  beautiful  costumes,  creating 
greater  beauty  in  the  dance  itself. 

So  she  tried  to  repeat  the  dancing  she'd 
seen.  But  the  small,  vigorous  little  dancer 
stopped  while  the  music  still  went  on.  She 
clenched  her  hands  in  the  despair  only  a 
very  special  little  girl  would  feel.  "I'm 
not  doing  it  right!"  she  cried  bitterly  to  the 
walls.  "I  don't  know  how  to  do  it  right!" 

Any  other  little  girl  would  have  given 
up.  But  Jvme  Taylor,  aged  ten,  went 
valiantly  to  a  dancing-school  headed  by 
Merrial  Abbott.  It  was  one  of  the  best 
dancing-schools  in  Chicago.  And  little 
June  gravely  proposed  a  bargain  she  had 
worked  out.  The  bargain  was  an  offer  to 
help  teach  children  even  younger  than  she 
was,  in  exchange  for  dancing  lessons  for 
herself.  It  was  necessary  to  be  very  con- 
vincing about  her  earnestness  and  her 
competence.  But  she  was  convincing. 
Merrial  Abbott  gave  her  the  lessons  she 
needed,  and  later  on,  for  a  time,  was  her 
manager  and  always  her  fast  friend. 

Only  three  years  later,  the  need  for 
money  at  home  was  more  serious  than 
ever.  So  June,  aged  thirteen,  considered 
as  gravely  as  before.  She  borrowed 
grown-up  clothes  and  high-heeled  shoes. 
She  bluffed  splendidly  about  her  age.  But 
she  did  not  need  to  bluff  about  her  danc- 
ing. The  dancing  was  the  clincher,  and 
she  got  the  job  she  needed  at  the  work 
she  wanted.  She  became  a  member  of 
the  chorus  lines  at  the  Chicago  Theater 
and  the  Chez  Paree  night  club. 

A  year  later,  when  she  was  fourteen,  she 
quit  high  school  to  dance  with  a  group 
called  the  "Chez  Paree  Adorables."  This 
was  over  the  impassioned  objections  of 
her  father.  He'd  been  out  of  work  for 
months  and  the  family  situation  was  very 
bad,  but  he  feared  for  his  daughter.  Her 
mother,  though,  had  a  firm  Irish  faith  in 
June,  and  spirit  to  match  it.  She  pre- 
vailed and  June  carried  on  her  career. 

June  danced  in  night-club  dance  lines 
and  in  theaters.  She  danced  with  Ted 
Weems'  band,  and  for  Ben  Bernie  and 
Ted  Lewis.  She  made  friends  who  stayed 
her  friends.  Merrial  Abbott,  Ted  Weems, 
Ted  Lewis,  and  innumerable  others.  There 
have  always  been  good  friends — men  and 
women  both — in  June  Taylor's  life.  But, 
in  1936,  she  made  a  very  special  one. 

Sol  Lerner  was  a  law-school  graduate 
who'd  become  the  attorney  for  a  talent 
agent.  Coming  to  New  York,  June  Taylor 
had  been  advised  to  look  up  this  particu- 
lar agent — who  shall  be  nameless.  The 
agent  was  tremendously  impressed.  He 
wanted  to  represent  her.  He  wanted  to 
do  great  things  for  her.  He  took  her  out, 
one  evening,  and  it  became  very  evident 
that  he  wanted  to  occupy  her  every  mo- 
ment from  then  on.    It  was  becoming  em- 


P 

thev  ran 


barrassing  to  June  by  the  time  tney  ran 
into  Sol  Lerner.  June  greeted  Lerner 
with  a  beaming  smile  and  a  whispered, 
"Don't  leave  me!  Don't  leave  me  alone 
with  him!"  And  Sol  Lerner  blandly  ig- 
nored the  black  looks  of  his  agent  client 
and  stuck  like  glue  until  the  evening  was 
over.  He  earned  June's  undying  gratitude 
and  he  was  a  good  friend  for  nine  years- 
then  he  made  a  permanent  improvement 
in  the  situation. 

But  there  were  some  very  good  and 
some  very  bad  times  in  those  nine  years 
between.  In  1938,  June  was  in  London, 
dancing  with  the  Ted  Lewis  band.  She 
was  doing  very  well.  She  was  close  to  the 
top  in  her  profession  and  she  was  earning 
money.  But  most  of  the  money  went 
home,  where  it  was  needed.  She  lived 
simply.  Fine  clothes  and  jewelry  didn't 
mean  much  to  her.  A  rehearsal  costume 
meant  more. 

She  drove  herself,  not  only  to  perfect 
her  dancing,  but  to  learn  and  improve  in 
all  the  things  one  needed  if  one  were  go- 
ing to  be  a  dancer  and  even  more.  Be- 
sides dancing  with  the  band,  which  was 
work  enough,  she  was  also  studying  drama 
and  diction  and  singing  and  French.  In 
between  times,  she  was  doing  the  choreog- 
raphy for  Raymond  Massey,  then  acting 
in  "Idiot's  Delight."  Doing  choreography, 
in  June  Taylor's  book,  is  not  only  dream- 
ing up  a  dance — it  is  making  it  come  to 
life  in  shimmering  perfection  on  the  stage. 
That  was  work.  Studying  was  work. 
Dancing  as  she  did  was  work.  It  was,  al- 
together, entirely  too  much.  She  didn't 
have  time  to  sleep. 

She  was  getting  places,  to  be  sure. 
Alexander  Korda,  5ie  British  film  produc- 
er, signed  her  to  a  seven-year  contract 
with  escalator  salary  clauses  that  would 
go  up  to  $2,500  a  week.  It  was  his  inten- 
tion to  build  her  up  into  a  movie  star — 
and  it  wasn't  a  bad  idea. 

June  Taylor  was  working  harder  than  a 
ballet  class,  studying  harder  than  most 
college  students — each  activity  a  full-time 
occupation — and,  in  what  she  fancied  was 
"spare  time,"  working  with  Raymond 
Massey  on  "Idiot's  Delight."  True,  she  was 
using  aspirin  in  place  of  the  sleep  she 
wasn't  getting.  But,  when  the  Alexander 
Korda  contract  was  offered  and  signed,  it 
looked  like  the  high  spot  of  one  career  and 
the  start  of  another,  more  brilliant  one. 

She  went  back  to  America  to  visit  her 
family  for  four  weeks.  She  was  radiant. 
But  she  couldn't  be  anywhere  for  four 
weeks  and  not  be  pressed  to  dance.  She 
danced,  in  the  Palace  Theater  in  Chicago. 
And  she  collapsed  on  the  stage. 

The  diagnosis  was  advanced  tubercu- 
losis. She  went  to  a  hospital,  and  she 
stayed,  flat  on  her  back,  for  two  years. 

That  would  be  bad  for  anyone.  It  was 
worse  than  bad  for  a  dancer.  Perhaps  it 
was  worst  of  all  for  June  Taylor,  who  had 
so  much  joy  in  movement — which  was 
forbidden.  .  .  and  dancing — which  was  then 
unthinkable  .  .  .  and  in  splendid,  zestful, 
ambitious  planning  for  the  future — which 
was  no  longer  possible.  Some  people 
might  have  died  of  pure  frustration.  May- 
be even  June  Taylor  would  have  given  up 
if  she  weren't  the  sort  of  person  she  is. 
That  sort  of  person  always  has  friends. 
There  was  one  friend,  Sol  Lerner — who'd 
acted  as  chaperon  when  she  was  bothered 
by  a  wolfish  agent.  Sol  Lerner  wrote  her 
at  least  twice  a  week  during  those  two 
years.  That  helped.  But  it  was  June 
Taylor's  own  will  to  live  that  made  her 
soberly  concentrate  on  getting  well. 

At  the  end  of  the  two  years,  she  de- 
cided it  was  time  for  her  to  go  home.  The 
doctors  didn't  agree  with  her.  When  she 
insisted,  they  told  her  flatly  that,   if  she 


left  the  hospital,  she  would  be  dead  in 
three  months. 
She  left.  She  went  home. 
In  three  months,  she  had  a  job  as  a  re- 
ceptionist. She  wasn't  dead — but  she 
wasn't  dancing,  either.  She  was  soberly 
eating  the  nourishing  foods  she  needed 
and  getting  as  much  rest  as  she  ought  to 
have.  There  was  no  more  cheating  with 
aspirins  instead  of  shut-eye.  Presently, 
she  began  to  feel  like  her  old  self. 

One  lunch-hour  she  ate  hastily  and 
went  to  a  near-by  rehearsal  hall  to  see 
how  well  she  was.  She  tried,  tentatively, 
to  dance.  And  she  found  out  what  had 
happened  to  her.  She  could  dance.  But 
ihe  didn't  have  and  could  never  get  back 
the  physical  stamina — the  more-than-per- 
fect  health — which  allows  a  slim  young 
girl  to  do  dancing  which  would  prostrate  a 
husky  football  player. 

She  took  it  rather  well.  She  recognized 
the  wreck  of  all  her  ambitions  and  her 
hopes.  She  took  it  without  flinching.  Then 
— and  this  took  a  very  special  kind  of 
courage — before  she  went  back  to  her  re- 
ceptionist's desk,  she  began  to  create  a 
dance  ...  a  combination  of  steps  and  grace 
and  idea  which  was  beautifully  satisfying 
because  it  was  so  perfectly  right. 

That  night,  ignoring  the  discovery  that 
professional  dancing  was  no  longer  for 
her,  she  showed  the  new,  defiantly  created 
dance    to     her     sister     Marilyn.     Marilyn 

f  watched  admiringly,  and  loyally  grew  en- 

I  thusiastic   as   June   showed   her   and    told 

I  her  the  completely  altered  plans  she'd 
made  for  the  future.    Next  morning,  they 

'  telephoned  five  old  friends — all  dancers. 

^  Marilyn  is  June's  first  assistant  now. 
But  Marilyn  and  the  five  friends  became 
the    first    June    Taylor    Dancers,    dancing 

I  the  routines  June  Taylor  created.  With 
Ted  Weems'  help,  the  Dancers  got  a  book- 

'  ing  at  the  Black  Hawk  Restaurant  in  Chi- 
cago. Then  Sol  Lerner  got  the  June  Tay- 
lor Dancers  a  job  at  the  Hurricane  Club 
in  New  York,  with  Duke  Ellington.    The 

'  New  York  critics  were  not  impressed,  and 
advised  June  Taylor  to  take  her  "corn" 
back  to  the  West  where  it  belonged.  This 
was  a   blow,   but  Sol   Lerner   encouraged 

I  her  to  carry  on. 

[  A  very  helpful  friend,  this  Sol  Lerner. 
And,  eventually,  much  more  than  that.  In 
1942,  he  and  June  Taylor  were  married. 
Now  he  is  the  business  manager  for  the, 
June  Taylor  Dancers,  and  of  the  June 
Taylor  Schools  of  the  Dance,  and  he's 
highly  capable  in  a  business  deal.  But  his 
marriage  to  June  Taylor  is  not  a  business 
deal,  and  he  regards  his  wife  with  that 
special  warmth  with  which  a  happy  man 


Among  hundreds  of  airwaves  favorites 
donating  to  Red  Cross  Blood  Bonks  is 
Morjorie    Reynolds    of    Life    Of    Riley. 


looks  at  the  woman  who  has  married  him, 
can  stand  him,  makes  other  men  envy  him, 
and  is  a  swell  cook,  besides! 

Despite  their  success  today,  the  June 
Taylor  Dancers  were  just  another  group  of 
dancers,  at  the  beginning.  They  had  to 
make  their  mark — and  June's  reputation 
as  a  choreographer — the  hard  way.  Some- 
how, though,  whatever  June  Taylor 
touches  becomes  memorable.  Her  own 
dancing  had  beei.  memorable  enough.  And, 
from  the  very  outset,  the  dances  she  con- 
ceived and  staged  had  a  quality  which 
made  them  stick  in  people's  minds. 

For  instance,  Sol  Lerner  got  an  en- 
gagement for  the  Dancers  at  the  Chanti- 
cleer Club  in  Baltimore.  There  was  a 
young,  struggling  comic  working  there  at 
the  same  time,  a  skinny  young  comic.  It 
seems  a  long  time  ago,  because  he  was 
Jackie  Gleason — and  he  was  skinny!  Ac- 
tually, it  was  1946.  Jackie  remembered 
the  Dancers  for  years.  When  he  was  giv- 
en a  featured  spot  on  the  Du  Mont  show. 
Cavalcade  Of  Stars,  he  asked  for  the  June 
Taylor  Dancers  at  once.  They've  been 
with  Jackie  ever  since. 

They'd  made  their  debut  on  television 
before  then,  however.  Not  immediately, 
of  course.  "The  June  Taylor  Dancers  be- 
gan in  1942,  and  they  played  thirty-nine 
weeks — a  television  year — in  the  first  Ed 
Sullivan  variety  show  in  1948.  They 
weren't  quite  the  production  feature  then 
that  they  are  now.  There  are  persistent 
rumors — and  nobody  denies  them — that 
Ed  Sullivan's  budget  was  so  low  on  that 
first  show  that  he  hired  the  June  Taylor 
Dancers  because  they  had  their  own  cos- 
tumes! 

Things  are  different  now.  The  Dancers 
joined  Jackie  Gleason  the  following  year. 
Now  they  are  as  much  a  part  of  the  show 
as  "The  Honeymooners,"  and  their  im- 
portance has  been  enhanced  in  the  latest 
Jackie  Gleason  format.  In  1954,  June 
Taylor  was  awarded  an  "Emmy,"  the  tele- 
vision equivalent  of  an  "Oscar,"  as  the 
best  choreographer  in  television.  (She's 
been  nominated  at  least  two  other  times.) 

June  Taylor  is  equally  successful  as  a 
wife.  Sol  Lerner  has  been  known  to  brag, 
"The  way  my  wife  cooks  things,  you  just 
can't  get  that  good  cooking  in  any  res- 
taurant in  the  world!"  They  live  on  Sut- 
ton Terrace,  in  an  apartment  filled  with 
pictures,  both  paintings  and  the  product 
of  Sol  Lerner's  cameras.  June  does  a  lit- 
tle photography  herself. 

But  a  mere  two  careers — wife  and 
choreographer — doesn't  make  her  life  as 
completely  full  and  rich  as  she  has  the 
capacity  to  enjoy.  In  1956,  she  opened  the 
first  of  the  June  Taylor  Schools  of  the 
Dance,  in  New  York.  There  are  classes 
for  all  ages  from  four  years  up,  through 
teen-agers,  through  those  who  dance  pro- 
fessionally, and  those  who  want  to  dance 
only    for    the    enrichment    of    their    lives. 

There  will  be  expansions  of  this  school. 
There  should  be  a  June  Taylor  School  of 
the  Dance  in  Kansas  City  in  the  fall,  and 
in  Miami  Beach  some  time  this  autumn. 
Los  Angeles  should  have  a  school  before 
the  end  of  the  year,  and  Long  Island  will 
have  one,  too.  All  this,  of  course,  provid- 
ing that  nothing  goes  very  badly  wrong. 

June  Taylor  insists  on  that  proviso.  It's 
not  that  she's  afraid  of  something  going 
wrong,  but  she  knows  it  can.  She's  se- 
cure in  her  fame  now,  and  she  has  a  home 
and  husband,  and  a  fullness  of  achieve- 
ment which  some  people  might  envy.  But 
it  is,  after  all,  rather  difficult  to  envy  June 
Taylor.  One  can  admire  her,  and  one  can 
regard  her  with  very  great  respect.  But — 
after  the  work  she's  done  and  the  handi- 
caps she  overcame  and  the  heartbreak  she 
endured  and  the  disaster  she  conquered — 
who  could  envy  her  what  she  has? 
June  Taylor  earned  it! 


Special  New  Tablet 

Relieves  Monthly  Cramps 

for3  out  of  4  in  Tests! 


Amazing  new  formula  developed 

especially  for  female  distress  gives. 

greater  relief  than  aspirin! 

If  you  dread  those  "difficult  days"  each 
month,  listen!  Science  has  developed  a 
special  new  tablet  to  relieve  padn,  cramps, 
and  tense  feelings  of  monthly  periods! 
It  contains  a  unique  combination  of  medi- 
cines— including  blood-building  iron. 
Thus  oifers  more  relief  than  plain  aspirin! 

In  doctors'  tests  painful  distress  was 
relieved  for  3  out  of  4  women!  Many 
didn't  suffer  even  on  the  first  day!  They 
also  escaped  much  of  the  jitters  and  un- 
happy tension  so  common  as  you  ap- 
proach that  trying  time  of  month. 

So  don't  suffer  needlessly.  Ask  for 
"Lydia  Pinkham  Tablets"  at  drug  stores. 
No  prescription  needed.  See  if  they  don't 
help  you  feel  worlds  better — both  before 
and  during  your  period! 


SONGWRITERS! 

PROTECT   Y01;R    IDI    '.S!       HOl.D    ALL    SONGS.    POBMS' 
Write    fo-r    snt<i.    correct    procedure! 

SONG  SERVICE 
Depf.  T.V.   333  W.   56th  St.,   New  York  19.  N.  Y. 


Llca^'^ 


^tcc\ 


howioia 

*IN  TV. MOVIES. THE  THEATRE;, 


Prepare  now.  at  home,  for  a  wonderful  acting  career!  Open 
K  the  door  that  may  bring  fabulous  Hollywood  or  New  York 
F  contracts  in  TV.  Movies,  the  Theater!  New  faces,  new  tal- 
ent, are  urgently  needed!  Real  opportunity  for  men  and 
1  women  of  all  ages!  Learn  latest  acting  techniques,  directioii. 
1  show  business  "success  secrets"!  Develop  new  poise  ,  vi- 
brant personality  as  you  mould  your  basic  talent.  We've 
/  helped  countless  others  ...  let  us  show  you  the  way. 

Fnrr|-TolentApmude"Te5l.Nothinglikei»ever!U««you 
||[[[    rate  your  talent  against  'studio  requirements.' 
I  Wrife  for  FREE"Test"&  "'Success  Plan"!  No  salesman  will  call.£ 

•  HOLLYWOOD  ROYAL  ACADEMY  • 
\  Studio  K5.      5880  Hollywood  Blvd.,  Hollywood  28,  Calif 


What  Do  3  Out  of  4 

Doctors  Recommend 

to  Relieve  Pain? 

A  survey  shows  3  out  of  4  doctors  recommend  the 
famous  ingredients  of  Anacin  Tablets  to  relieve  pain 
of  headache,  neuritis  and  neuralgia.  Here's  why 
Anacin®  gives  you  better  total  effect  in  relieving 
pain  than  aspirin  or  any  buffered  aspirin : 

^1^  ACTS  INSTANTLY:  Aoacin  goes  to  work  instantlj. 
'     Brings  fast  relief  to  source  of  your  pain. 

fgg^  MORE  EFFECTIVE:  Anacin  is  like  a  doctor's  pre- 
scription. That  is,  Anacin  contains  not  one  bnt 
a  combination  of  effective,  medically  proven  in* 
gredients.  j 

■i^^  SAFERt  Anacin  simply  can  not  upset  your  stomacb.  < 

R 


.  LESSENS  TENSION:  Anacin  also  reduces  nervous 
tension,  leaves  you  relaxed,  feeling  fine  after  pain 
goes.  Buy  Anacin  today. 


85 


ENJOY  A  PERMANENT, 
kB/G  PAY  CAREEft  as  a 

^PRACTICAL 
NURSE 


EARN  AT  HOME  WHILE  LEARNING 

FREE  SAMPLE  LESSON  shows  how  easily  you  can 
become  a  professionally  trained  practical  nurse 
by  home  study  in  a  short  time.  NO  HIGH 
SCHOOL   NEEDED.     No  age   limit. 

FOR  FREE  LESSON  and 
FULL  INFORIVIATION 


Post  Graduate  Hospital 
Schooi  of   Nursing 
9D57  Auditorium  BIdg. 
Chicago  5,   Illinois 


l^y 


Name. 


Address 

City State. 


SONG  POEMS  WANTED 

To  be  set  to  music.   Send  your  poems  today  for  free 
examination! 

J.  CHAS.   McNEIL,   (A.  B.  Master  of  Music) 
510-MG  S«.  Alexandria  Los  Angeles  5,   Calif. 


SHORTHAND 

Famous  SPEEDWRITING  shorthand.  120 
words  per  minute.  No  symbols;  no  machines. 
Uses  ABC's.  Easiest  to  learn,  write,  tran- 
scribe. Lowest  cost.  Over  350.000  graduates. 
Typiner  available.  34th  Year.  Schools  in 
over  400  cities.  Write  for  FREE  booklet  to: 
© 


86 


l*(T%ENLARGEMENT 

^        ^  o/youf  Fai/otrfe  Photo 


FROM  FAMOUS  HOLLYWOOD  FILMiTUDIOS 

Just   to  get  acquainted,    we  will 
make  you  a  beautiful  5x7  black 
and    white    enlargement    of    any 
'S  snapshot,  photo  or  negative.  Also 
[5  be  sure  to  include  color  of  hair, 
eyes   and   clothing,    and   get   our 
Air  Mail  Bargain  Offer  for  hav- 
^  muM  '"^S  your  enlargement  beautifully 

*^fW7illllVlvv  hand-colored  in  oil  and  mounted 
in  a  handsome  frame.  Limit  2  to  a  customer. 
Please  enclose  10c  to  cover  cost  of  handling  and 
mailing  each  enlargement.  Original  returned.  We 
will  pay  $100.00  jor  children's  or  adults'  pictures 
used  in  our  advertising.  Act  NOW! 

Offer  limited  to  U.S.A.  only 

HOLLYWOOD  FILM  STUDIOS.  Dept.  F-372 
7021    Santa   Monica   Blvd.,   Hollywood   38,   Calif. 


^  V  V  V  ^  V 

I       Can't  Get  Rid  of 
[^Dark  or  Discolored  Skin, 
Jreckles,  Skin  Spots? 


HERE'S  HELP!  Mercolized  Wax  Cream 
7  NIGHT  PLAN  Lightens, 
Beautifies  Skin  WiiileYou  Sleep 

Just  follow  the  famous  Mercolized  Wax 
Cream  7  Night  Plan  to  a  whiter,  smoother, 
lovelier  skin.  Smooth  rich,  luxurious  Mer- 
colized Wax  Cream  on  your  face  or  arms 
just  before  retiring  each  night  for  one  week. 
You'll  begin  to  see  results  almost 
at  once  .  .  .  lightens  dark  skin, 
blotches,  spots,  freckles  as  if  by 
magic!  This  is  not  a  cover  up  cos- 
metic; Mercolized  Wax  Cream 
works  UNDER  the  skin  surface. 
Beautiful  women  have  used  this 
time; tested  plan  for  over  40  years  —  you'll 
love  it's  fast,  sure,  longer  lasting  results! 
Mercolized  Wax  Cream  is  sold  on  100%  guar- 
antee or  money  back.    Start  using  it  now  I 

MERCOLIZED  WAX  CREAM 

At  All  Drug  and  Cosmetic  Counters 


Lightens  dark 
Gkin  and  ugly 
spots  almost 
overnlgtit. 


Denise  Lor:  How  She  Beat  the  Weight  Problem 


(Continued  from  page  29) 
songstress  instead  of  a  waitress,  you'd 
think  she  wouldn't  have  a  chance  to  eat 
on  the  job — but  you'd  underestimate  her 
ingenuity.  "Remember,"  she  twinkles,  "I 
got  used  to  eating  anything  that  wasn't 
nailed  down!" 

She  has  been  on  The  Garry  Moore  Show 
since  1950,  and  sometimes  she  gets  a  plate- 
ful of  food  (such  as  Franco-American 
snaghetti)  to  nibble  in  front  of  the  camera. 
"I  didn't  have  to  finish  it  all."  she  says, 
"but  I  would.  Or,  we'd  be  doing  a  Betty 
Crocker  cake-mix  commercial.  There'd  be 
one  cake  in  the  studio  for  the  camera  to 
shoot,  but  we'd  always  have  two  spares, 
too.  After  the  show,  there  would  be  a  mad 
scramble  to  cut  them — and  I'd  be  in  line 
for  a  generous  hunk. 

"I  don't  do  that  any  more.  Yet  I've  been 
eating  very  well  since  I  started  dieting — 
and,  in  some  ways,  better  than  I  did  be- 
fore. In  the  morning,  when  I  was  leaving 
home  for  the  studio,  I  used  to  grab  a  glass 
of  fruit  juice  and  a  slurp  of  coffee.  The  rest 
of  the  day  would  be  one  long  meal.  By 
the  time  I  got  to  the  studio  at  nine,  I  was 
hungry,  so  I'd  send  out  for  Danish  pastry 
and  coffee.  Later,  when  someone  send- 
ing out  for  coffee  would  ask,  'Want  any- 
thing?', I'd  order  a  melted  cheese  sand- 
wich. Maybe  for  lunch  I'd  order  a  cream 
soup,  another  cheese  sandwich,  or  a  ham- 
burger on  buttered  roll.  In  the  afternoon, 
more  coffee  and  something  to  eat  with  it. 
By  that  time,  since  I  was  in  the  habit  of 
nibbling,  I'd  be  hungry  when  I  got  home 
for  dinner — so  I'd  have  another  cheese 
sandwich  in  the  kitchen  before  we  sat 
down  at  the  table.  My  appetite  was  like  a 
bottomless  pit. 

"Now,  I  start  the  day  by  allowing  enough 
time  to  have  a  good  breakfast.  First,  fruit 
juice  and  a  vitamin  tablet.  Then,  two  boiled 
eggs.  I  like  them  hard-boiled  sometimes. 
They  seem  more  filling — I  can  hardly  get 
the  second  one  down,  and  they  have  no 
more  calories  than  soft-boiled  eggs.  I  got 
used  to  drinking  coffee  without  sugar  dur- 
ing the  war.  In  fact,  coffee  with  cream  and 
sugar  tastes  like  a  dessert,  not  a  beverage. 

"Lunch  is  a  problem,  since  I'm  at  the 
studio.  I  send  out  for  two  hamburgers. 
Then  I  take  step  number-one  to  cut  down 
calories  in  a  sandwich.  I  remove  the  top 
of  the  bun  and  eat  just  as  little  of  the 
bottom  as  is  necessary  to  keep  from  hold- 
ing the  hamburger  in  my  hand.  This  can 
be  messy,  drippy  and  spilly,  but  it  saves 
calories!  Black  coffee,  of  course,  and  an 
apple  or  pear  for  dessert.  And  when  we 
send  out  for  a  snack  between  meals,  I'll 
order  more  black  coffee. 

"For  dinner,  I'm  home  with  Jay  and  the 
boys.  I  like  meat  and  lots  of  green  and 
yellow  vegetables,  because  I  haven't  eat- 
en any  all  day.  Sometimes  I'll  have  parsley 
potatoes  with  butter.  Even  on  a  diet,  we 
need  a  moderate  amount  of  fat  or  oil.  I 
used  to  pile  salt  on  to  a  ridiculous  extent. 
Now,  I  don't  add  any  to  what's  been  used 
in  cooking.  For  dessert,  I  have  fruit." 

As  for  drinking  milk:  The  U.  S.  De- 
partment of  Agriculture  has  just  pub- 
lished a  new  simplified  guide  to  healthful 
eating.  To  keep  well  and  energetic,  their 
experts  say  that  we  must  choose  foods 
daily  from  four  basic  groups:  (1)  Milk 
or  milk  products;  (2)  proteins  which  are 
contained  in  meat,  fish,  poultry,  eggs,  dried 
beans  or  nuts;  (3)  vegetables  and  fruits; 
and  (4)  breads  and  cereals.  Note  that  milk 
heads  the  list. 

"I  drink  fat-free  milk,"  says  Denise. 
"But  doesn't  milk  always  make  you  think 
of  cookies?  Sometimes  I  sneak  a  cookie, 
depending  on  what  I've  eaten  all  day.  Or 
I'll  nibble  a  piece  of  cheese,  which  I  love 


more  than  candy.  I  used  to  eat  practically 
another  meal  before  goine  to  bed.  But  no 
more.  That  food,  it  seems  to  me,  can  turn 
into  fat  while  you're  plf^pT^Jrig.  I'd  rather 
get  up  and  eat  a  good  breakfast,  so  that  I 
use  UD  the  energy  from  that  food  during 
the    day." 

On  Saturdays  and  Sundays.  Denise  eats 
a  bigger  breakfast  than  u<nial  because  she 
eats  with  the  family.  Se^iria'  the  boys  de- 
vouring bacon  and  eggs,  to'^'st  with  marma- 
lade, and  cups  of  hot  chooolate,  makes  her 
hungry.  She  is  so  accustomed  to  fat-free 
milk  by  now  that,  if  she  pours  whole  milk 
on  cereal,  it  tastes  like  cream. 

Her  weekday  schedule  is  a  busy  one.  Un 
at  seven  in  the  morning,  into  New  York 
by  nine,  on  the  air  from  ten  to  10:30, 
Monday  to  Thursday,  from  ten  to  11:30 
on  Friday.  Rehearsals  go  on  until  2:30 — 
except  for  Thursday,  when  the  cast  re- 
hearses from  noon  to  .'^•30  for  the  one- 
and-one-half-hour  Friday  show.  And, 
while  Denise  was  singing  at  the  Plaza, 
there  were  two  night  performances,  at 
nine  and  twelve. 

In  addition  to  changing  her  eating  habits 
so  she  could  slim  down  prid  flt  into  the 
beautiful  gowns  Joe  FretwpU  designed  for 
her  Plaza  appearance,  Denise  started  going 
to  Pilate's  gym  for  two  o'"e-hour  sessions 
a  week.  "The  first  time  I  went  into  Pilate's," 
she  recalls,  "I  thought  it  mioht  be  a  mis- 
take. I  saw  all  the  pictures  of  muscle-men 
and  didn't  want  to  come  out  in  that  shane. 
I  wanted  to  lose  weight,  not  add  muscles." 
However,  exercise  does  tone  uo  the  muscles 
and  helps  keep  the  bodv  contours  firm 
while  a  diet  makes  pounds  fall  off. 

"I  love  to  skate  for  exercise,"  Denise 
says.  "And,  now  that  summer  is  comine.  I 
look  forward  to  swimming.  In  fact,  I  like 
all  snorts,  but  I'm  good  at  none.  And  I'm 
cautious  about  skiing,  because  I  can  pic- 
ture how  I'd  look  trying  to  sing  with  my 
teeth    knocked    out!" 

The  kind  of  diet  that  Denise  would  like 
to  find  is  the  one  that  savs  vou  can  have 
whipned  cream.  In  fsct,  vrhile  .still  dream- 
ing, Denise  says,  "What  I'd  like  to  do  is 
take  the  one  food  I  like  from  each  of  the 
diets  I  see  printed — you  k^ow,  the  piece 
of  pie  you're  allowed  one  dav  a  week,  the 
few  cookies,  or  the  part  that  says  this  time 
you  can  have  creamy  msshed  potatoes — 
and  make  a  composite  diet  of  only  the 
rich  things  I  want." 

The  merriness  twinkles  out  of  her  face, 
as  she  adds,  more  seriously,  "The  diets 
that  suggest  usual  measurements,  like  one 
cup  or  one  slice  are  best.  I  don't  under- 
stand diets  that  give  quantities  in  ounces. 
I  can  see  myself  with  a  medicine  dropper, 
a  scale,  and  a  battery  of  measuring  equip- 
ment in  front  of  me  at  the  dinner  table." 

The  only  measure  to  use  on  Denise  now 
is  a  tane.  By  sticking  to  her  diet  and  exer- 
cise, she  took  off  twelve  pounds  of  fat.  She 
now  measures  35V2-24-35i'''> — the  most 
pleasing  proportions  for  her  five-foot-four 
height — and   tips  the   scales   at  120. 

For  her  opening  night  at  the  Persian 
Room,  Denise  was  in  fine  figure  as  well  as 
in  good  voice.  She  looked  glamorous  and 
slim  in  her  white  sheath  gown.  It  was 
another  thrilling  achievement,  winning  new 
friends  to  add  to  the  many  who  have  al- 
ways loved  her  on  The  Garry  Moore  Show. 
Her  basic  honesty  in  facing  up  to  being 
overweight — and  deciding  to  do  something 
about  it — had  paid  off,  as  it  can  for  anyone 
with  the  same  sensible  approach. 

Denise  had  done  it  on  her  own,  after 
three  weeks  of  careful  dieting  and  follow- 
ing two  simple  rules:  Eat  sensibly,  not 
compulsively.  And  exercise  to  keep  body 
contours  firm  while  those  unwanted  pounds  , 
are  melting  away. 


WHAT'S  NEW  ON  THE  EAST  COAST 


(Continued  from  page  13) 


City.  He  and  Mary  have  two  boys, 
Tommy,  six,  and  Daniel  Philip,  two. 
For  recreation,  they  like  to  go  down 
to  the  beach  and  catch  ball.  Danny  com- 
ments, "Mary  throws  as  good  as  I  do,  but 
the  kids  got  her  run  so  ragged  that  she's 
down  to  110  pounds — and  that's  not  her 
good  ball-playing  weight." 

Visiting  Time:  Alan  Freed,  who  emceed 
his  "Rock  'n'  Roll  Revue"  on  ABC-TV  in 
May,  had  two  good  reasons  for  his  special 
visit  to  Ted  Steele's  Bayidstand  show  on 
WOR-TV  in  New  York.  They're  The 
Teardrops,  a  brace  of  teen-age  boys  who 
so  impressed  Alan  that  he  made  the  spe- 
cial trip  to  introduce  their  new  King 
record,  a  ballad  titled  "After  School."  The 
boys  also  impressed  their  local  contempo- 
raries, who  named  the  newcomers  as  their 
favorites  in  a  poll  on  the  Steele  show.  .  .  . 
When  Hal  Holbrook  steps  out  of  the  char- 
acter of  Grayling  Dennis  of  The  Brighter 
Day,  he  steps  into  the  character  of  Mark 
Twain.  He  impersonated  the  author  on 
Ed  Sullivan's  Easter  Sunday  show  and 
will  do  an  encore  on  May  18  and  19,  at 
Angel's  Camp  in  Calaveras  County.  'This 
is  where  Twain  first  heard  the  yarn  he 
turned  into  his  famous  story,  "The  Jump- 
ing Frog  of  Calaveras  County,"  and  the 
old  mining  town  still  holds  an  annual 
jumping  frog  contest.  This  year,  the  Cali- 
fornia county  holds  its  Jumping  Frog 
Jubilee,  and  500  frogs  will  gather  from  all 
over  the  world  to  compete  for  the  first 
prize  of  $1,000.  It's  estimated  that  10,000 
people  will  watch  the  frogs — and  also  Hal. 

Female  Elvis  or  Not?:  Abigail  Francine 
Lane  is  her  right  name,  but  calling  her 
Abigail  is  like  calling  a  Jaguar  a  horse- 
less carriage.  Abbe  Lane's  the  name  and 
she's  famous  for  her  sexy  gyrations  (i.e., 
female  Elvis)  when  she  sings  with  hubbie 
Xavier  Cugat's  band.  But  that,  too,  is  the 
wrong  impression.  Young  Abbe  (born 
1924)  is  an  intellectual  sophisticate  with 
serious  ideas  about  acting.  It's  incidental 
that  Abbe  and  Cugie's  twice-weekly  TV 
show  are  hitting  high  and  certain  to  return 
next  fall.  This  summer  Abbe  goes  to 
Italy  to  make  the  movie,  "Bread,  Love  and 
Cha  Cha,"  with  Vittorio  De  Sica  and  Fer- 
nandel.  This  is  the  third  and  last  in  the 
famed  "Bread,  Love,  Etc."  series.  The  first 
two  starred  Gina  and  Sophia — and  Abbe 
has  everything  and  as  much  as  they  have. 
"I've  turned  down  American  movies," 
Abbe  says.  "All  they've  offered  me  are 
Western  and  Indian  girls."  Abroad  she's 
made  eight  good  movies  and  starred  in 
roles  that  called  on  her  to  portray  a  sweet 
ingenue,  a  mean  Neapolitan,  a  Roman  girl, 
a  French  dancer,  a  Brazilian  and,  in  a 
comedy,  she  turned  into  a  boy,  but  not  for 
too  long.  Abbe  is  a  fine  linguist  and 
speaks  French,  Italian  and  Spanish  as  well 
as  she  does  English.  She  was  born  in 
Brooklyn.  Her  mother,  of  Spanish  ex- 
traction, was  a  beauty  who  won  the  Miss 
New  York  title.  Her  father,  of  German  ex- 
traction, is  a  clothier.  Abbe  began  sing- 
ing professionally  at  the  age  of  four  and 
received  so  much  encouragement  that  she 
has  been  in  show-biz  constantly.  At  sev- 
enteen, she  joined  Cugie's  band  and  two 
years  later  married  him.  Abbe  and  Cugie 
(born  1900)  are  proud  of  their  marriage 
and  their  happiness.  They  work  well  to- 
gether and  spend  most  evenings  at  home 
working,  studying  or  just  getting  rid  of  a 
cold.  They  have  three  homes:  A  villa  in 
Italy,  a  suite  in  Manhattan's  Ritz  Towers 
and  a  house  in  Brentwood.  Abbe's  hobby 
is   designing  shoes  and   she  has   designed 


all  of  her  200  pairs.  She  doesn't  repudi- 
ate her  excessive  sex  appeal.  She  says, 
"Unfortunately,  in  this  day  and  age,  first 
you  must  sell  yourself  to  the  public  and 
then  they  let  you  act." 

Slightly  Personal :  This  month  finally  sees 
Warren  and  Sue  Hull  catching  a  two- 
week  vacation.  Warren  has  been  putting 
the  rest  off  for  months  because,  believe  it 
or  not,  the  rating  was  on  the  upswing 
and  that's  no  time  to  fool  around  with  a 
deep  breath.  .  .  .  About  the  same  holds 
true  for  bright  Bill  Cullen.  Bill's  new 
show,  The  Price  Is  Right,  has  had  the 
most  fabulous  mail  pull  in  the  business. 
The  program  receives  as  many  as  a  mil- 
lion cards  in  a  week.  The  rating  has  been 
on  the  rise  and  Bill,  too,  has  been  putting 
off  the  big  escape.  But  this  month,  he 
and  spouse,  the  former  Ann  Macomber, 
take  off  for  two  weeks  in  Europe.  And 
note,  too,  that  Bill  and  Ann  are  on  the 
prowl  these  days  for  a  house  and  they 
want  the  works — fireplace,  garden,  puppy, 
and  who  knows.  .  .  .  Speaking  of  mail  pull, 
mention  was  made  that  Theo  Goetz,  who 
plays  "Papa  Bauer"  on  The  Guiding  Light, 
was  celebrating  his  65th  birthday  and,  in 
five  days'  time,  26,000  letters  and  car' 
and  gifts  came  in.  .  .  .  Episodes  for  Men 
Annapolis  are  shot  at  Annapolis,  but  n 
without  some  confusion.  For  example,  the 
midshipmen  were  cooperating  in  making 
a  football  scene  but,  after  an  hour,  al- 
though the  scene  was  incomplete,  the  Navy 
departed — taking  the  football  with  them. 
To  complete  the  film,  a  helmet  was  used 
for  a  football.  .  .  .  Mrs.  Dorothy  Olsen, 
the  singing  schoolteacher  who  won  $25,- 
000  on  Name  That  Tune,  is  now  a  perma- 
nent singing  guest  on  NBC's  Bandstand. 
She  has  also  cut  a  second  children's  rec- 
ord for  Victor  titled  "Animal  Fair,"  and 
continues  her  duties  as  a  substitute  teacher 
in  New  York  public  schools  as  well  as  her 
domestic  duties  as  the  wife  of  a  commer- 
cial fisherman.  .  .  .  Understand  Jazzbo 
Collins  will  have  a  musical  show  on  NBC 
next  season.  He'll  call  it  I  Don't  Believe 
It  and  promises,  "It's  like  nothing  you've 
ever  seen  before."  .  .  .  Phil  Silvers  doesn't 
expect  the  baby  until  July,  yet  he's  al- 
ready got  a  bad  case  of  jitters.  "In  the 
middle  of  the  night,  Evelyn  sleeps  just 
fine  and  I  wake  up  wanting  a  pickle — but 
with  corned  beef,  not  ice  cream."  He 
adds,  "I  hope  it's  a  boy  and,  if  it's  not  a 
boy,  I  hope  it's  a  girl." 

What  Can  You  Expect?  Next  year  is  go- 
ing to  be  relaxed,  real  relaxed.  Instead  of 
comedians,  there  will  be  many,  many 
singers,  all  relaxed  and  smiling.  Ear- 
scratching  Como  remains  king  of  the  low- 
pressure  school,  but  in  the  same  manner 
will  come  Eddie  Fisher  over  NBC-TV  on 
Tuesday  evening.  And  then  there  will  be 
Pat  Boone  and  Sinatra,  each  with  his  own 
show  on  ABC-TV.  Guy  Mitchell  comes 
on  ABC-TV,  too,  but  this  singer  has  zing, 
an  off-beat  charm  that  will  have  to  be 
swallowed  in  a  yawn  if  he  intends  to  sur- 
vive. And  this  is  just  the  beginning,  for 
TV  is  imitative  and  you  can  bet  your  an- 
tenna there  will  be  a  dozen  more  shows  in 
the  same  pattern.  It  is  already  extending 
into  the  dramatic  field,  for  the  big  news 
is  that  Gary  Cooper,  the  first  king  of  re- 
laxers,  the  prince  of  laconics,  the  master 
of  the  shy  smile,  will  host  and  narrate  an 
hour  dramatic  show  over  CBS-TV.  And 
soon  it  will  affect  quiz  shows,  and  instead 
of  leading  the  contestant  into  an  isolation 
booth,  they  will  probably  put  him  to  bed. 
Oh,  it's  gonna  be  a  real  slow  boat  to  China. 


Makes 

Pavements 

Feel 

Like  Cushions! 


D-'Scholl's 
Wi  BALL-0-FOOT 
Cushion 


YouActually  WalkOn  Air! 

This  modern  miracle  of 
walking  ease— Dr.  SchoH's 
Ball-0-Foot  Cushion  for 
men  and  women— relieves 
pain, callouses, burning, ten-  • 

dernessatballof  foot.The  cushion,  not  you, 
absorbs  shock  of  each  step.  Loops  over  toe 
—no  adhesive.  Flesh  color.  Washable.  Only 
$1  pair.  At  Drug,  Shoe,  Dept.,  5-10ji  Stores 
and  Dr.  Scholl's  Foot  Comfort®  Shops.  If 
not  obtainable  locally,  send  $1.00  direct  to 
DR.  SCHOLL'S,  Dept.  77B,  Chicago  10,  IH. 


M  _„.„„„  50HGWRITERS 
?  I  W  W  •  TO  THE  WRITER  OF  BEST  SOHC  SELECTED   EACH  MONTH 


Send  songs,  poems.Records,  copies  furnished. Let  us  help  you  be  a  succesfc 


High  School  Course 

at  Home 


Many  Finish  in  2  Years 

_3  as  rapidly  as  yonr  time  and  abilities  permit.  Eqaivalent  to  resi- 
dent school  work— prepares  for  college  entrance  exams.  Standard 
H.  S.  texts  supplied.  Diploma  awarded.  Credit  for  H.  S.  sabjects 
completed.  Single  subjects  if  desired.  Ask  for  Free  Balletin. 

American  School,  Dept,  H  A53,  Drexef  at5flth,  Cliicago37 


P/ay  Right  Away! 

ANY   INSTRUMENT 

Now  it's  EASY  to  learn  ANY  INSTRUMENT— even  if 
you  don't  know  a  single  note  now.  No  boring  exercises. 
You  play  delightful  pieces  RIGHT  AWAY— from  very  first 
lesson!  Properly — by  note.  Simple  as  A-B-C.  You 
amazing  proj^rress — at  home,  in  spare  time, 
without  teacher.  Onlv  few  cents  per  lesson. 
900,000  STUDENTS,  including  Lawrence  Welk. 
COCC  rtt\f\'t£  Shows  how  easy  it  isl  ^. 
r  nCC  DUVf%  to  learn  music  this  mod- |^CV(5 
em  way.  Write  for  it.  No  obligation;  no  V 
salesman  will  call  upon  you.  U.  S.  School 
of  Music,  Studio  A206,  Port  Washington, 
N.  Y.   (S9th  successful  year). 

Shrinks  Hemorrlioids 
New  Way  Witliout  Surgery 

Science  Finds  Healing  Substance  That 
Relieves  Pain— Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 

For  the  first  time  science  has  found  a 
new  healing  substance  with  the  astonishing 
ability  to  shrink  hemorrhoids  and  to  relieve 
pain  —  without  surgery. 

In  case  after  case,  while  gently  relieving 
pain,  actual  reduction  (shrinkage)  took 
place. 

Most  amazing  of  all  —  results  were  so 
thorough  that  sufferers  made  astonishing 
statements  like  "Piles  have  ceased  to  be  a 
problem!" 

The  secret  is  a  new  healing  substance 
(Bio-Dyne*)  — discovery  of  a  world-famous 
research  institute. 

This  substance  is  now  available  in  sup- 
pository or  ointment  form  under  the  name 
Preparation  H*  Ask  for  it  at  all  drug  count- 
ers—money back  guarantee.     ♦Keg.  U.  S.  Pat.  Off. 


87 


NEW  DESIGNS  FOR  LIVING 


SIZES 
S-10-12 
M  — 14— 16 
L_l8-20 


7064 — Cool,  tie-shoulder  halter  to  top 
your  skirts,  shorts,  slacks.  Trim  with 
flower  embroidery.  Takes  just  a  little 
more  than  1  yard  35-inch  fabric.  In  Sizes 
Small  (10,  12)  ;  Medium  (14,  16)  ;  Large 
(18,  20).  Tissue  pattern,  transfer.  State 
Size.  25^ 

610 — A  religious  picture  —  inspiring 
throughout  the  years.  Done  in  simple 
embroidery.  Transfer  of  picture,  16x19 
inches,  color  chart,  directions,  detail  of 
stitches.    234 

7259 — Attractive  chair-set,  beginner- 
easy  to  crochet  in  pineapple  design.  For 
both  modern  and  traditional  furniture. 
Simple  crochet  directions.   25^ 

751 — Embroider  old-fashioned  girl  mo- 
tif on  towels,  sheets,  scarves,  pillow- 
cases; add  frilly  ruffling  of  eyelet  or 
lace.  Transfer  of  one  motif  5x19^/^ 
inches;  two  S^/^xM  inches.  Color  chart, 
directions.  25<j^ 

7162 — Easy-to-crochet  place  mats  and 
centerpiece  make  an  elegant  table  set- 
ting. Crochet  directions  of  pineapple 
and  star  design.  Centerpiece  19  inches; 
mats  14^2  inches  in  No.  30  cotton.  25^ 

7278 — Perfect  hot-weather  hobby — piece 
a  patchwork  quilt!  Thriftiest  way  to  use 
your  scraps.  You'll  display  the  finished 
work  with  pride.  Pattern,  chart,  direc- 
tions.   25<j; 

7074 — Dainty  crocheted  shell  pocket 
holds  a  wash  cloth.  Use  heavy  cotton 
for  terry  towels,  lighter  for  linen.  Cro- 
chet directions  for  holder,  plus  match- 
ing edging.    254 


88 


Send  twenty-five  cents  (in  coin)  for  each  pattern  to:  TV  Radio  Mirror,  Needlecraft  Service.  P.O.  Box  137,  Old  Chelsea  Station. 
New  York  11,  New  York.  Add  five  cents  for  each  pattern  for  iirst-dass  mailing.  Send  an  additional  25(*  for  Needlework  Catalog. 


ii 


n 


n 


iUcn  a  ttiiiereiice 


m 


n 


.  .  .  the  new  Kotex  napkin  with  gentle  Wondersoft  covering 
won't  rub,  won't  chafe,  fits  perfectly — gives  you  the  instant  and 
complete  absorbency  you  need. 

And  the  new  Kotex  belt  has  a  special  clasp  that  won't  "dig  in" 
like  metal.  This  self-locking  clasp  holds  the  napkin  securely, 
never  lets  it  slip  or  slide.  The  specially-woven  elastic,  too,  stays 
:nd  snug  —  the  edges  won't  curl  or  twist. 

jbout  comfort .  .  .  this  is  it! 


More  women  choose  Kotex 
than  all  other  brands 


KOTEX  and  W/ONDERSOFT  are  trademarks  of  Kimberly-Clark  Corp. 


B 


R 


cJ^eauiijul    cTiatr 


E 


C 


K 


JOHN       H      B  R  E 
N    t   W  Y    O    R 


C  K 
K 


The  Three 

N  C 

C  H  1    C   A 


THERE  ARE  THREE  BRECK  SHAMPOOS 
FOR   THREE    DIFFERENT    HAIR    CONDITIONS 

A  mother  likes  a  gentle  Breck  Shampoo  for  her  children  -  and 
for  herself.  Each  of  the  Three  Breck  Shampoos  is  mild  and 
gentle  in  action,  yet  cleans  thoroughly.  One  Breck  Shampoo 
is  for  dry  hair.  Another  Breck  Shampoo  is  for  oily  hair.  A 
third  Breck  Shampoo  is  for  normal  hair.  Select  the  correct 
Breck  Shampoo  for  each  member  of  your  family.  A  Breck 
Shampoo  brings  out   the   soft,   natural   beauty  of   the   hair. 

Breck  Shampoos  are  available  al  Beauty  Shops  and  wherever  cosmetics  are  sold. 


Conyright  1957  by  John  H.  Breck  Inc. 
MANUFACTURING      CHE<MISTS  •  SPRINGFIELD 

GO        •        SAN  FRANCISCO        •        LOS  ANGELES 


?  •  MASSACHUSETTS 

OTTAWA  CANADA 


»» 


n!r,),?,f^^."Y  OF^  CONGRESS 


0  020  514  130  3 


PS 


mm 


'.■■■;S>:!;;I({';  f';';,  iii,,i„i- 

■j.t'y-.':/  .iViiJr.rinliiiSi, 

m 


