mm 


BRHB 


THMMSMq 


I 


53*3 


kK&KbiffiH 


1 


SBHBBS 


Scanned  from  the  collections  of 
The  Library  of  Congress 


AUDIO-VISUAL  CONSERVATION 
at  The  LIBRARY  of  CONGRESS 


Packard  Campus 

for  Audio  Visual  Conservation 

www.loc.gov/avconservation 

Motion  Picture  and  Television  Reading  Room 
www.loc.gov/rr/mopic 

Recorded  Sound  Reference  Center 
www.loc.gov/rr/record 


PUBLISHER'S  BINDING 


5-DEC  11 
-X 1957 


>I0  MIRROR 


In  color: 
IN  DAYTIME 
ADIO  GREATS 

leet  Little 
itte  Funicello 
isney  Doll 


Y  JOHNSON 
"dreamed" 
i  a  storm! 


RADIO 
MIRROR 


THE  CROSBY  CLAN  OF  SPOKANE 


Tommy 
Sands 


BUD  COLLYER 


ROSEMARY  RICE 


25a 


TOMMY  SANDS  AND  THE  DATE  DEPARTMENT 


A  NEW,  SLENDER  CONTAINER  EOR  THE  FRAGRANT  SPRAY 
THAT  HOLDS    HAIR    SOFTLY,    BEAUTIFULLY  IN    PLACE 

Breck    Hair   Set    Mist,    a    fragrant   spray,    is    available    in    an   attractive  new 
container.    This  slender  package  is  easy  to  use  and   economical  to  purchase. 

Breck  Hair  Set  Mist  is  gentle  as  nature's  mist,  yet  its  delicate  touch  holds  your 
hair  softly  in  place  for  hours.  A  damp  comb  renews  your  waves  without  respraying. 


n  * 


Breck  Hair  Set  Mist  provides  a  quick,  easy  way  to  make  lasting  pin  curls,  too. 

Fragrant  as  a  bouquet,  Breck  Hair  Set  Mist  contains  lanolin,  which  leaves  the 
hair  soft  to  the  touch  and  brings  out  the  natural  lustre  and  beauty  of  your  hair. 


B        R 


C^BeauiiJul^lai, 

E 


C       K 


Copyright  1957  by  John  H.  Brcck.Inc. 

New  8  ounce  size  $1.65;  4V2   ounce  $1.25;   11  ounce  $2.00.      Plus  tax       Available  wherever  ^osmetics  are  sold. 


More  grown-ups  and  growing-ups 

depend  on  Mum  than  on  any  other  deodorant 


PRODUCT  OF   BRISTOL-MYER 


New 


stops  odor...without  irritation 

So  safe  for  any  normal  skin  you  can  use  it  every  day 


If  you've  ever  worried  about  underarm  stinging  or  burn- 
ing from  using  a  deodorant  daily  or  right  after  shaving 
or  a  hot  bath— now  you  can  set  your  mind  at  ease. 

New  Mum  Cream  is  so  gentle  and  safe  for  normal  skin, 
you  can  use  it  whenever  you  please,  as  often  as  you  please. 

Mum  Cream  gives  you  the  kind  of  protection  you  can't 
possibly  get  from  any  other  leading  deodorant— because 
it  works  a  completely  different  way. 


Mum  Cream  is  the  only  leading  deodorant  that  works 
entirely  by  stopping  odor  .  .  .  contains  no  astringent 
aluminum  salts.  And  it  keeps  on  working  actively  to  stop 
odor  24  hours  a  day.  When  a  deodorant  is  so  effective- 
yet  so  safe  — isn't  it  the      ^sSoHFEbs^     /£&&!§ 


new  Mum  Cream  today 


WON'T 

DAMAGE 

CLOTHES 


MUM®  stops  odor  24  hours  a  day  with  M-3 

(bacteria-destroying  hexachlorophene) 


.  3£**-*~ 


keep 

cool 

Nothing  to  stop  you  from  rushing  head- 
long into  a  clear,  fresh  pool,  a  mountain 
spring,  a  briny  surf!  When  it's  time-of- 
the-month,  you  can  still  keep  cool !  You 
can  swim  wearing  Tampax — the  internal 
sanitary  protection  that  really  protects 
while  it  keeps  your  secret  safe! 

Doctor-invented  Tampax®  is  invisible 
and  unfelt  when  in  place.  You  can  wear 
it  under  the  sleekest  bathing  suit — and 
no  one  will  ever  know!  You  can  dive, 
swim,  be  a  living  mermaid — and  Tampax 
won't  absorb  a  drop  of  water! 

Any  time,  anywhere,  Tampax  is  the 
coolest,  nicest,  most  comfortable 
sanitary  protection  you  can 
wear.  No  belts,  pins  or  pads  to 
chafe  and  bind.  Nothing  to 
bulge  or  show.  Nothing  to  cause  odor. 

Take  off  for  a  breezy  beach  at  a  mo- 
ment's notice!  Say  "goodbye"  to  "prob- 
lem days"  with  Tampax!  It's  easy  to 
change  .  .  .  simple  to  dispose  of .  . .  con- 
venient to  carry.  Why,  as  much  as  a 
whole  month's  supply  tucks  away  in 
your  purse!  3  absorbencies:  Regular, 
Junior,  Super.  Wherever  drug  products 
are  sold.  Tampax  Incorporated,  Palmer, 
Massachusetts. 


TV 


RADIO 
MIRROR 


JULY,   1957 


MIDWEST  EDITION 


VOL.  48,  NO.  2 


Ann  Higginbotham,  Editorial  Director 


Ann  Mosher,  Editor 
Teresa  Buxton,  Managing  Editor 
Claire  Safran,  Associate  Editor 
Gay  Miyoshi,  Assistant  Editor 


Jack  Zasorin,  Art  Director 
Frances  Maly,  Associate  Art  Director 
Joan  Clarke,  Art  Assistant 
Bud  Goode,  West  Coast  Editor 


PEOPLE  ON  THE  AIR 

What's  New  on  the  East  Coast by  Peter  Abbott  8 

What's  New  on  the  West  Coast by  Bud  Goode  10 

Ahoy,  My  Mate!   (Robert  Shaw) by  Jennifer  Bourke  Shaw  18 

Jack  Imel  From  Indiana by  Maurine  Remenih  21 

The  "Dolly"  Princess  (Annette  Funicello) by  Gordon  Budge  30 

The  Crosby  Clan  From  Spokane by  Maxine  Arnold  34 

Two  Weeks  With  Play  (Paul  Winchell  and  Jerry  Mahoney) 38 

The  Girl  Tommy  Sands  Marries by  Eunice  Field  40 

Families  Are  Fun  (Bud  Collyer) by  Mary  Temple  44 

All  the  Things  You  Are   (Rosemary   Rice) by  Frances  Kish  46 

Hillbilly  Hero   (Andy  Griffith) by  Fredda  Balling  50 

My  13  Years  With  Jerry  Lewis by  Patti  Lewis  52 

The  Rock  Rolls  'Round  the  World  (Bill  Haley  and  His 

Comets) .by  Helen  Bolstad  54 

FEATURES  IN  FULL  COLOR 

Stars  in  the  Daytime — Your  CBS  Radio  Favorites 24 

Faith  Had  the  Answer  (Bill  Lundigan) by  Dora  Albert  28 

Sing  and  Be  Happy  (Betty  Johnson) by  Martin  Cohen  32 

YOUR  LOCAL  STATION 

A  Weekend  With  Monitor    (NBC)    4 

Of  Many  Words  (WBC,  CBS,  CBS-TV) 12 

Inside  New  York  (CBS-TV,  WCBS) 14 

Come  Into  My  Kitchen   (WFMJ,  WFMJ-TV) 15 

Deejay  on  the  Keys   ( WTCN) 58 

The   Personal   Touch    (KHOL-TV,   KHPL-TV) 59 

The  Record  Players:  No  Pumpkins,  Please by  Josh  Brady  60 

YOUR  SPECIAL  SERVICES 

TV  Radio  Mirror  Goes  to  the  Movies by  Janet  Graves  6 

Information    Booth 13 

Movies  on  TV 16 

Vote  for  Your  Favorites  (monthly  Gold  Medal  ballot) 63 

Beauty:  Under  the  Sun  (Toni  Campbell) by  Harriet  Segman  57 

New  Patterns  for  You   (smart  wardrobe  suggestions) 81 

New  Designs  for  Living  (needlecraft  and  transfer  patterns) 84 

Cover  portrait  of  Tommy  Sands  by  Paul   W.  Bailey,  courtesy  of  NBC 


BUY  YOUR  AUGUST  ISSUE  EARLY 


ON  SALE  JULY  5 


Invented  by  a  doctor— 
now  used  by  millions  of  women 


_  _  PUBLISHED      MONTHLY      by      Macfadden 

.\,,D*       Publications,    Inc..    New   York,    N.    Y. 

EXECUTIVE,      ADVERTISING      AND      EDI- 
,  TORIAL      OFFICES      at      205      East      42nd 
*  Street.    New   York,    N.   Y.    Editorial  Branch 
.Office:    6260    Selma    Ave.,    Hollywood    28, 
r  Calif.     Irving    S.    Manheimer,    President; 
l.ee      Andrews.      Vice      President;      Meyer 
f(/i|1'      Dworkin.    Secretary  and    Treasurer.  Adver- 
tising offices   also   in   Chicago,    221    North 
LaSalle    Street,    and    San    Francisco. 

SUBSCRIPTION  RATES:  $3.00  one  year,  U.  S.  and 
Possessions  and  Canada.  $5.00  per  year  for  all  other 
countries. 

CHANGE  OF  ADDRESS:  6  weeks'  notice  essential. 
When  possible,  please  furnish  stencil  impression  ad- 
dress from  a  recent  issue.  Address  changes  can  be 
made  only  if  you  send  us  your  old,  as  well  as  your 
new  address.  Write  to  TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East 
42nd  Street.  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 
MANUSCRIPTS:   All  manuscripts  will  be  carefully  con- 


sidered, but  publisher  cannot  be  responsible  for  loss  or 
damage.  It  is  advisable  to  keep  a  duplicate  copy  for 
your  records.  Only  those  manuscripts  accompanied  by 
stamped,  self-addressed  return  envelopes  or  with  suffi- 
cient return  postage  will  be  returned. 
FOREIGN  editions  handled  through  Macfadden  Publi- 
cations International  Corp..  205  East  42nd  Street.  New 
York  17,  N.  Y.  Irving  S.  Manheimer,  President:  Doug- 
las Lockhart,    Vice  President. 

RE-ENTERED  as  Second-Class  Matter,  June  28,  1954. 
at  the  Post  Office  at  New  York,  N.  Y..  under  the  Act  of 
March  3.  1S79.  Authorized  as  Second  Class  mail,  P.O. 
Dcpt.,  Ottawa,  Ont.,  Canada.  Copyright  1957  by  Mac- 
fadden Publications,  Inc.  All  rights  reserved  under  In- 
ternational Copyright  Convention.  All  rights  reserved 
under  Pan-American  Copyright  Convention.  Todos  de- 
rechos  reservados  segun  la  Convencion  Pan-Americana 
de  Propiedad  Literaria  y  Artistica.  Title  trademark 
registered  in  U.S.  Patent  Office.  Printed  in  U.  S.  A. 
by  Art  Color  Printing  Company. 
.  Member  of   the   TRUE    STORY    Women's   Group. 


Mitkt^ 


Years  from  now,  passers-by  will  note  their  initials 

in  the  birch  tree's  bark.  And  it  looks  as  if  this  love  affair 

would  last  even  longer.  Young  as  they  are,  both  Pat 

and  Andy  have  learned  that  unpleasant  breath  is  a 

barrier  to  romance.  When  they  whisper  "sweet  nothings," 

you  may  be  sure  they'll  stay  sweet,  thanks  to 

the  security  that  gargling  with  Listerine  Antiseptic  brings. 

The  most  common  cause  of  bad  breath  is 
germs  .  .  .  Listerine  kills  germs  by  millions 

The  most  common  cause  of  bad  breath 
by  far  is  germs  that  ferment  the  protein  always 
present  in  the  mouth.  Listerine  Antiseptic  kills 
germs  instantly  ...  by  millions. 

Tooth  paste  can't  kill  germs 
the  way  Listerine  does 

Tooth  paste  can't  kill  germs  the  way 
Listerine  does,  because  no  tooth 
paste  is  antiseptic.  Listerine  IS 
antiseptic.  That's  why  Listerine 
stops  bad  breath  four  times 
better  than  tooth  paste. 
Gargle  Listerine  full-strength, 
morning  and  night. 


i. 


LISTERINE 

the  most  widely 

used  antiseptic 

in  the  world. 


gqgH 

WLm 

'fi^^:M$t$- 

IdSsBfl 

usmtME 

1 

'  — ■*  ~i 

esSss 

WBH 

UJ^TO" 

a 

%v      ^v 

LISTERINE  ANTISEPTIC  stops  bad  breath  4  times  better  than  tooth  paste 


Icencl  with 


IVIOIMIl 


Here's  Henry  Morgan  with  Miss  Monitor 
(Tedi  Thurman),  Melody  Girl  Lorna  Lynn. 


Two  years  ago  this  June,  an  elec- 
tronic "bleep"  introduced  Monitor  to 
America.  NBC's  weekend  radio  serv- 
ice, it  was  a  new  and  flexible  concept 
that  offered  something  of  everything 
and  for  everybody.  There  are  music, 
news  and  sports,  big  names  and  brief 
skits,  visits  to  night  clubs  and  jaunts 
around  the  world.  It  has  Dave  Garro- 
way  to  be  at  "peace"  with  the  world, 
Henry  Morgan  to  satirize  it,  Bob  Elliott 
and  Ray  Goulding  to  poke  fun  at  it,  an 
army  of  on-the-go  "communicators" 
to  report  on  it — and  recently  welcomed 
Fibber  McGee  and  Molly  to  be  at  home 
with  it.  With  all  of  this,  it's  also  the 
longest  program  on  the  air.  Monitor 
warms  up  Friday  from  8  to  10  P.M., 
then  settles  down  for  a  siege  from  8  A.M. 
to    midnight,    Saturday    and    Sunday. 


Man  of  Today,  Dove  Garroway  is  the  Sunday  evening  "communicator," 
a  low-pressure  host  who's  at  peace  with  everybody  on  the  Monitor  globe. 


Monitor's  idea   paid  off,   cashed  in  on 
"counterfeiting"  by  Bob  (right)  and  Ray. 


Glamour:  Fitzgerald  Smith  party-hops  to  interview  two 
blondes,   Monique  Van   Vooren  and  Jayne   Mansfield. 


Travel:  George   Folster,    NBC   correspondent  in  Tokyo,   visits 
the  famous  Sinza  shopping  district  for  an  on-the-spot  report. 


£§8' 


M.L1T0  PARK        € 

195? 

TOSOM,  AUE. 


Exclusive:   Dick  Jennings  flew  to  and  from    Paris  for 
first  interview  with   Ingrid   Bergman  on   her   U.S.  visit. 


Sports:  Monitor's  a  winner  in  the  coverage  of  champions.  In 
Arizona,  there's  a  run-for-the-money  named  for  the  program. 


Stars:  Toes  of  the   "Nose,"  Jimmy 
Durante,  were  heard  coast  to  coast. 


Bavaria:  Exec  Producer  Al  Capstaff 
looses  a  Radio  Free  Europe  balloon. 


Sounds:   Helen   Hall   listens  to  the   Duffy 
Square   pigeons   in   New  York's   midtown. 


PERIODIC    PAIN 

Don't  let  the  calendar  make  a 
slave  of  you,  Betty!  Just  take  a 
Midol  tablet  with  a  glass  of  water 
. . .  that's  all.  Midol  brings  faster 
and  more  complete  relief  from 
menstrual  pain-it  relieves 
cramps,  eases  headache  and 
chases  the  "blues." 

"WHAT  WOMEN    WANT  TO   KNOW" 

a  24-page  book  explaining  menstruation 
is  yours,  FREE.  Write  Dep't  B-77,   Box  280, 


New  York  18,  N.  Y.  (Sent  in  plain  wrapper). 


TV. 


RADIO 
MIRROR 


*h 


Harmony  doesn't  always  prevail  between  political  advisers  Paul  Douglas  and 
Darren  McGavin  and  mayor  Bob,  who  loves  Vera  Miles  more  than  his  career. 

TV  favorites  on  your  theater  screen 


Beau  James 

paramount;  vistavision,  technicolor 
On  TV,  Bob  Hope  usually  sticks  to  his 
familiar  stint  as  the  brash  but  likeable 
clown.  Now,  on  the  theater  screens,  he 
steps  into  the  guise  of  Jimmy  Walker, 
New  York  mayor  who  symbolized  the 
spirit  of  the  Jazz  Age,  when  a  peppy  per- 
sonality seemed  more  important  than  pri- 
vate morality  or  political  integrity.  Pulling 
no  punches,  Bob  makes  the  colorful  mayor 
a  pitifully  human  and  very  endearing 
character.  Playing  respectively  wife  and 
girl  friend,  Alexis  Smith  and  Vera  Miles 
give  strength  to  the  roles  of  the  women 
in  Bob's  life.  Among  his  business  pals, 
tough  Paul  Douglas  and  high-minded  Dar- 
ren McGavin  are  nicely  contrasted.  To 
bring  an  era  back  to  life,  movie  veteran 
Walter  Catlett  is  seen  as  Al  Smith,  while 
Jimmy  Durante  and  George  Jessel  cheer- 
fully portray  their  own  younger  selves. 

The  Lonely  Man 

paramount;  vistavision 
Winner  of  the  "best  acting"  Emmy  for  his 
work    in    the    TV    play    "Requiem    for    a 
Heavyweight,"  Jack  Palance  now  draws  a 


strong  movie  role  in  an  unusual  Western. 
Circumstances  have  brought  him  a  repu- 
tation as  a  killer,  yet  he  returns  to  his 
home  town — and  to  the  grown  son  who 
bitterly  hates  him.  This  part  offers  equally 
rich  opportunity  for  TV  grad  Anthony 
Perkins.  Also  with  TV  experience,  Elaine 
Aiken  makes  a  promising  film  debut  as 
the  sensible,  courageous  girl  loved  by  both 
father  and  son.  Here's  all  the  action  and 
gunplay  you  expect  of  a  good  horse  opera, 
but  there's  also  a  bonus,  in  the  picture's 
serious  treatment  of  complex  relation- 
ships between  human  beings. 

The  Buster  Keaton  Story 

PARAMOUNT,  VrSTAVISION 

Like  Bob  Hope,  Donald  O'Connor  is 
currently  dropping  his  own  familiar  per- 
sonality to  take  on  the  mannerisms  of 
another  celebrity.  Usually  adept  at  mug- 
ging, Don  goes  deadpan  to  play  the  sober- 
faced  comic  of  silent-film  days.  As  the 
vaudeville-bred  Keaton,  Don  breaks  into 
movies,  scores  a  hit  as  a  slapstick  star, 
but  has  trouble  with  dames  and  the  bottle. 
On  the  romantic  side,  it  takes  him  a  while 
to  realize  that  the  loyal  love  of  working 


By  JANET  GRAVES 


girl  Ann  Blyth  is  worth  more  than  the 
flamboyant  charms  of  glamour  doll  Rhonda 
Fleming. 

At  Your  Neighborhood  Theaters 

This  Could  Be  the  Night  (M-G-M;  Cine- 
maScope)  :  Sparkling  romantic  comedy 
tosses  schoolteacher  Jean  Simmons  into  the 
rakish  night-club  world,  where  she's  pur- 
sued by  young  Anthony  Franciosa  and 
guarded  by  boss  Paul  Douglas.  Dashes  of 
song  and  dance  add  merriment. 

12  Angry  Men  (U.A.)  :  Based  on  a  TV 
play,  this  vigorous,  thought-provoking  film 
pits  Henry  Fonda  against  eleven  fellow 
jurors,  all  swayed  by  personal  feelings  in 
their  fight  over  a  murder-trial  verdict.  Fine 
character  portrayals  plus  the  excitement 
of  a  whodunit. 

The  Bachelor  Party  (U.A.)  :  Also  drawn 
from  a  TV  drama  (by  Paddy  Chayefsky, 
author  of  "Marty"),  this  close-up  of  ordi- 
nary New  Yorkers  is  notable  for  its  frank- 
ness and  sympathetic  acting.  A  night  on 
the  town  reveals  the  domestic  problems 
of  Don  Murray  and  his  office  pals,  married 
or  not. 


'm&$l 


Re-enacting  a  Keaton  scene,  Donald 
O'Connor  nobly  plays  heroic  mariner. 


New  sunshine  yellow 

shampoo 

puts  sunny  sparkle  in  hair! 


ihampoo 
plus  egg 


leaves  hair  silkier. . . 
softer. . .  easier  to  manage 

Brunette?  Blonde?  Redhead? 
You'll  thrill  when  you  see  how  your 
hair  responds  to  the  conditioning 
benefits  of  new  shampoo  plus  egg  ! 
It's  just  what  your  hair  needs — for 
new  life  and  luster,  for  rich  silky 
softness.  You'll  love  the  "feel"  of 
your  hair — the  way  it  manages. 

That's  the  magic  conditioning  touch 
of  shampoo  plus  egg  !  This  new 
kind  of  shampoo  cleans  cleaner, 
rinses  super  fast.  It's  the  one  really 
different  shampoo  .  .  .  from  its  sun- 
shine yellow  color  to  the  lilting 
sunny  sparkle  it  puts  in  your  hair! 
Try  it  once,  you'll  use  it  always. 

Economical  29i,  59i,  $1. 


WHAT'S  NEW  ON 


By  PETER  ABBOTT 


Comic  Ernie  Kovacs,  now  turned  author,  commiserates  with  wife  Edie  Adams. 
Her  shoes  pinch,  now  that  she's  a  barefoot  star  on  Broadway  in  "Li'l  Abner." 


Virginia's  Gene  Vincent  is  a   solid 
citizen    in    the    rock    'n'    roll    world. 


Squeeze  Gently:  Sonny  James's  most 
expensive  item  on  the  road  is  his  long 
distance  phone  calls  to  his  best  gal  in 
Dallas.  .  .  .  TV  execs  eating  their 
hearts  out  trying  to  lure  Cary  Grant 
into  television.  .  .  .  Como  still  refuses 
to  let  Person  To  Person  come  into  his 
home,  so  resistant  is  Perry  to  exposing 
his  family.  .  .  .  Percy  Faith  takes  a 
July  vacation  into  Canada,  land  of  his 
birth.  .  .  .  An  actor,  big  radio  and  TV 
serial  star,  involved  in  a  real  off-stage 
drama  as  he  and  his  wife  try  to  hold 
on  to  adopted  child.  .  .  .  Lovely  Fran- 
ces Wyatt,  who  came  out  of  the  chorus 
to  solo  on  Firestone  last  month,  adds 
her  soprano  to  a  great  fun  album, 
"Here  Comes  the  Showboat,"  pre- 
sented by  Epic  with  "thrills  and  sur- 
prises for  all  the  family."  .  .  .  When 
Tic  Tac  Dough  adds  a  night-time 
stanza,  Jack  Barry  will  step  aside  for 
another  emcee.  He's  tired.  .  .  .  Edie 
Adams,  whom  you'll  be  seeing  a  lot 
of  on  TV  this  summer,  is  spreading 
at  the  lowest  extremes.  Her  feet  are 
getting  bigger  from  dashing  about 
barefoot  in  the  Broadway  produc- 
tion of  "Li'l  Abner." 

Secret  Sweethearts:  In  spite  of  de- 
nials, our  Elvis  is  quite  serious  about 
his  little  gal  back  in  Memphis.  But 
his  brain-trust  share  the  same  golden 
jitters  that  is  scaring  the  ten-percent 
out  of  most  managers  of  bachelor 
stars.  They  are  convinced  that  teen- 
age females  account  for  as  much  as 


75  percent  of  their  success  and  they 
fear  that  sudden  marriage  or  an- 
nouncement of  a  serious  romance  will 
murder  their  appeal.  Hipsters  in  the 
recording  biz  trace  Eddie  Fisher's 
drop  in  popularity  to  the  day  he 
married  Debbie.  Prior  to  the  wedding, 
his  recordings  sold  in  the  millions. 
The  exception,  of  course,  is  Pat  Boone, 
with  a  wife  and  three  kids.  The  only 
explanation  for  this  is  that  Pat  came 
into  the  business  with  the  family. 
Anyway,  right  or  wrong,  our  young 
glamorous  males  are  in  a  sweat  be- 
cause most  of  them  are  truly  in  love 
and  ready  for  marriage.  About  the 
only  young  singer  who  hasn't  a  secret 
sweetheart  is  handsome  Tommy 
Sands,  but  he's  so  shy  and  sincere 
that  he'll  probably  get  picked  off 
first. 

Lotsa  Gossip:  Pretty  Polly  Bergen 
and  husband  Freddie  Fields  hoping  to 
adopt  a  child  this  summer.  .  .  .  Whis- 
perings that  the  Pat  Boones  may 
multiply  again.  Pat  and  Shirley  make 
no  secret  of  the  fact  that  they  would 
love  to  have  a  little  boy.  .  .  .  Snooky 
Lanson  may  wind  up  at  ABC.  .  .  . 
Bishop  Sheen  wants  to  quit  his  TV 
show.  Why?  .  .  .  Tell  the  kids  Rin 
Tin  Tin  has  been  renewed  for  two 
more  years  of  adventures. 


Shelter  for  the  Stars:  Nanette  Fa- 
bray,  visiting  Manhattan,  noted  that 
she  and  new  groom,  Ranald  Mac- 
Dougall,  have  bought  a  tract  of  shore 
land  at  Newport  Beach,  just  an  hour's 
ride  from  Hollywood  studios.  They 
will  build  a  home  to  their  own  specifi- 
cations. Since  Rannie  is  a  writer  and 
needs  quiet,  and  since  Nan  is  a  singer 
and  breaks  quiet,  they  have  decided 
to  build  their  workrooms  at  opposite 
ends  of  the  house.  .  .  .  Rosemary 
Prinz,  lovely  Penny  of  As  The  World 
Turns,  has  moved  into  her  new  ranch 
house  in  Nyack,  N.  Y.  .  .  .  Pity,  pity 
Hal  and  Candy  March.  They  gave  up 
parties  and  weekend  invitations  to 
house-hunt  this  past  year.  They  were 
out  looking  in  rain,  snow  and  sleet. 
Finally,  up  in  Westchester,  they  found 
just  the  house.  Fell  in  love  with  it. 
And  it  was  for  sale.  The  sale  was 
ready  to  go  through,  when  illness 
struck  in  the  home  of  the  owner. 
Now  the  deal  has  been  postponed  in- 
definitely. "But,  with  the  new  baby, 
we've  just  got  to  get  out  of  the  apart- 
ment," Hal  says.  "With  Candy,  the 
two  kids,  the  baby,  the  maid  and  little 
bit  of  space  I  take  up,  there's  hardly 
room  to  move.  We'll  just  have  to  rent 
a  house."  .  .  .  And  speaking  of  tem- 
porary shelter,  Scott  Forbes  (Jim 
Bowie)    reports   being   a   bit   shaken 


For  What's  New  On  The  West  Coast,  See  Page  MO 


THE  EAST  COAST 


Mm 


Chorus  gal  with  Voice  Of  Firestone, 
Frances   Wyatt   is   a   solo   star,   too. 


■   ■ 


Western  star  Scott  Forbes,  who's  often  joined  on  Jim  Bowie  by  his  wife, 
Jeanne  Moody,  came  East  to  find  the  wildest — a  bedroom-full  of  Presley  pix. 


Sweet  V  lovely  Martha  Wright  gave 
her  newborn  her  husband's  nickname. 


during  his  Manhattan  stopover.  Scott 
and  his  actress-wife  Jeanne  Moody 
stayed  with  Jeanne's  sister  and  her 
family.  Jeanne's  niece,  thirteen-year- 
old  Diane,  gave  up  her  bedroom  to 
the  Forbes.  Scott  says,  "It  was  the 
strangest  feeling,  waking  in  Diane's 
bedroom.  The  walls  are  covered  with 
Presley  pictures." 

B-I-Bickey-Bi,  Go,  Man,  Go:  Capi- 
tol's gold-record  holder,  Gene  Vin- 
cent, who  rocks  like  Elvis  useter,  kind 
of  surprised  Manhattan  girlies.  They 
expected  him  to  be  as  wild  as  his 
compositions  ("B-I-Bickey-Bi,  Bo- 
Bo-Go,"  "Be-Bop-A-Lula"),  but  Gene 
turned  out  to  be  softspoken  and  reti- 
cent. The  Virginian  came  into  the 
city  still  favoring  his  bad  leg,  broken 
when  he  drove  his  motorcycle  into  a 
tree.  Norfolk  doctors  want  him  to 
give  up  the  two-wheeler,  but  it's  his 
special  fun.  Medics  couldn't  even  keep 
him  in  bed  long  enough  to  heal  the 


break  properly.  Twice  he  got  up  to 
rock  against  their  orders.  .  .  .  Please 
note  that  a  Columbia  University  psy- 
chiatrist describes  rock  'n'  roll  as  a 
"contagious  epidemic  of  daricy  fury" 
that  could  possibly  sweep  the  coun- 
try, ending  in  world  chaos — except 
that  it's  not  crazy,  just  a  craze,  he 
hopes,  he  hopes.  .  .  .  And  Columbia 
U.'s  most  famous  teacher  and  newly- 
wed,  Charlie  Van  Doren,  goes  on  a 
$50,000  annual  retainer  with  NBC  as 
educational  advisor.  The  fee  is  ten 
times  what  he  makes  teaching. 

Call  Out  the  Head  Doctors:  We've 
mentioned  before  that  the  TV  net- 
works will  be  barking  sixshooters  like 
mad  next  season.  A  whole  posse  of 
adult  shoot-em-ups  are  in  the  works. 
That's  only  part  of  it.  There'll  also  be 
an  onslaught  of  crime.  Martin  Kane, 
Perry  Mason  and  a  slew  of  sleuths 
come  on  en  masse.  But  that's  not  all. 
(Continued  on  page  79) 


Home  for  Nanette  Fabray  and  Ran- 
ald  MacDougall  has  two  workrooms. 


WHAT'S  NEW  ON 


New   wife   for    Danny   Thomas — on 
TV,  that  is — is  pretty  Marjorie  Lord. 


Groucho  insists  he  won't  eat  Bob 
Cobb's    hat — the    Brown    Derby. 


10 


Wise  investments  mean  Welk  and 
Myron    Floren   earn   champagne. 


By  BUD   G00DE 


Traveling:  Vacation  time  will  take 
Tennessee  Ernie  Ford  and  wife  through 
the  New  England  states.  .  .  .  George 
Gobel  goes  to  ye  jolly  olde  England  on 
a  combination  business-pleasure  trip. 
George  will  be  present  at  the  premiere 
of  RKO's  "I  Married  a  Woman,"  with 
Diana  Dors.  George's  young  son, 
Gregg,  bought  his  Dad  a  monocle  as  a 
gag  gift  for  the  trip.  Or  was  it  to  help 
George  see  Diana  better?  .  .  .  Another 
European  camera  clicker  this  summer 
will  be  Lawrence  Welk,  who  has  uh- 
one,  uh-two  weeks  to  tour  the  Con- 
tinent. .  .  .  With  a  flip  of  his  cigar, 
Groucho  says  about  his  vacation  from 
his  NBC-TV  show,  "For  three  months 
I  know  I'm  not  going  to  have  to  eat 
in  the  Brown  Derby  at  least  one  night 
a  week  (show  time).  The  show  doesn't 
tire  me  out  .  .  .  but  I  need  a  vacation 
from  Bob  Cobb's  cooking.  You  can 
only  eat  so  many  old  brown  derbies." 
.  .  .  On  their  vacation,  Desi  and  Lucy 
moved  into  their  new  $11,000,000  home 
in  Palm  Springs — Desi's  Western  Hills 
Hotel.  After  a  two-week  stay,  Lucy 
agreed  that  Desi's  service  was  pretty 
good,  saying,  "But  how  come  I  can't 
get  him  to  do  anything  around  the 
house?"  .  .  .  Eddie  Fisher  and  Debbie 
took  the  baby  on  their  Las  Vegas  jun- 
ket. Eddie  wowed  'em  at  the  Tropicana. 
Eyeful  Elaine  Dunn,  also  in  the  act, 
will  be  featured  on  Eddie's  TV  show  in 
the  fall.  .  .  .  Gale  Storm,  who  has 
traveled  everywhere  in  the  world  on 
Stage  1  in  her  Hal  Roach  series,  Oh! 
Susanna,  has  gone  to  Colorado  Springs 
for  husband  Lee  Bonnell's  insurance 
convention. 

The  Shape  of  Things :  Not-so-ama- 
teur-painter, Jack  Bailey,  is  teaching 
art  to  the  pretty  Queen  For  A  Day 
models.  Jack  uses  oranges,  apples  and 
vases  in  still-life  form  to  teach  princi- 
ples of  composition,  shape  and  form. 
.  .  .  Pat  Boone's  wife,  Shirley,  who  has 
been  resting  flat  on  her  back  under  a 
doctor's  care  since  their  last  baby  was 
born,  is  now  90%  recovered.  A  few 
weeks  ago,  Pat  went  out  on  a  personal 
appearance  tour,  was  gone  10  days. 
Since  their  marriage  four  years  ago, 
this  was  the  longest  they  had  ever  been 
apart.  .  .  .  Jack  Webb  dating  Jackie 
Loughery,  seen  on  TV  in  the  Judge 
Roy  Bean  series  and  the  lead  in  his 
new  film,  "The  D.I."  .  .  .  Jack  Carson 
and  Lola  Albright  together-apart  again. 
.  .  .  Molly  Bee  introduced  Tommy  Sands 
to  her  priest,  Father  Michael,  at  Holly- 
wood's Blessed  Sacrament.  .  .  .  And 
speaking  of  romance:  Danny  Thomas 
"weds"  Marjorie  Lord,  not  for  life,  just 
five  years  or  more  with  options.  Mar- 
jorie is  Danny's  new  "wife"  on  Make 
Room  For  Daddy. 


For  What's  New  On  The  East  Coast,  See  Page  8 


Books  'n'  Bikes:  This  shuttle-flying 
back  and  forth  makes  Hollywood  and 
New  York  like  the  two  opposite  ends 
of  a  yoyo.  Ernie  Kovacs'  wife,  Edie 
Adams,  flew  in  for  one  night  and  then 
back  again  to  her  Broadway  play,  "Li'l 
Abner."  Kovacs  is  in  Hollywood  star- 
ring in  Columbia's  "The  Mad  Ball." 
With  Ernie,  everything  is  a  "mad  ball." 
During  his  last  two-week  vacation,  he 
wrote  a  novel,  "Zoomar,"  a  close-up  of 
the  television  industry.  "Actually,"  says 
Ernie,  "the  book  took  only  thirteen  days 
to  write.  I  spent  the  rest  of  the  time 
changing  ribbons.  Book  will  be  pub- 
lished by  Doubleday.  What's  the  book 
about?  Well,  it's  a  different  book  about 
the  entertainment  industry — the  mar- 
ried couple  end  up  with  each  other."  .  . . 
Clint  Walker  of  ABC-TV's  Cheyenne, 
his  wife  Verna,  and  their  six-year-old 
daughter,  Valerie,  can  be  seen  early 
mornings  flying  along  the  dirt  roads 
near  their  North  Hollywood  home.  On 
horseback?  No.  On  the  latest  in  Italian 
motor  scooters.  Clint's  newest  hobby  is 
the  trim  two-wheeler.  He  has  "his"  and 
"her"  models,  one  for  wife  Verna  and 
one  for  himself.  Daughter  Valerie  rides 
in  a  wire  basket  seat  on  the  handlebars. 
The  Old  West  was  never  like  this. 

Casting:  Beautiful,  talented  teenager 
Margaret  O'Brien,  beginning  her  new 
TV  series,  Maggie,  .  .  .  Hal  March  be- 
gins shooting  his  picture,  "Hear  Me 
Good,"  in  mid-June.  .  .  .  Dorothy  Shay, 
the  mad  Manhattan  Hillbilly,  and 
Michael  Wilding,  the  veddy  proper 
Britisher,  will  share  TV  panel  show, 
What's  The  Occasion?  .  .  .  Charles 
Bickford  has  the  lead  in  Boots  And 
Saddles,  a  post-Civil  War  cavalry 
series.  .  .  .  Don't  be  surprised  if  Tommy 
Sands  subs  for  Tennessee  Ernie  on  his 
Thursday-night  Ford  Show.  .  .  .  John 
Payne  in  the  Restless  Gun  series  on 
NBC -TV.  .  .  .  Joan  Caulfield  in  Sally 
on  CBS -TV.  .  .  .  Bette  Davis  to  star  in 
and  host  a  dramatic  series.  .  .  .  And 
casting  in  reverse:  Gordon  MacRae 
moves  behind  the  Lux  Video  cameras 
part  of  next  season  to  assume  direc- 
torial chores.  .  .  .  Finally,  Jeff  Donnell 
closes  out  the  George  Gobel  season  with 
her  last  guest  appearance.  We  hope  this 
means  Jeff  will  be  on  the  first  show 
when  George  and  Eddie  Fisher  join 
hands  in  the  fall. 

Bing  Wings :  Crosby  has  taken  to  fly- 
ing. Bing  has  studiously  ignored  travel 
by  air  before.  No  reason.  On  last  trip 
to  Europe,  he  came  and  went  by  boat. 
Now  he  has  begun  regularly  reading 
airplane  magazines  and  the  flying  col- 
umns in  the  newspapers,  and  recently 
flew  to  a  Las  Vegas  charity  golf  tourna- 
ment. Maybe  he's  going  to  buy  an  air- 
line. .  .  .  Bing's  youngest  son,  Lindsay, 
in  town  for  Easter  vacation,  called  his 


THE  WEST  COAST 


Girls,  girls,  girls  get  in  the  act  with  Eddie  Fisher  at  the  Tropicana   in   Las 
Vegas.  Elaine  Dunn  (seen  in  center)  will  go  on  Eddie's  TV  show  in  the  fall. 


Dad  on  the  M-G-M  set  of  "Man  on 
Fire,"  asking  if  he  and  some  friends 
could  visit.  Bing  said  "Sure,"  calling 
one  of  his  assistants  to  look  after 
Linny  and  his  pals.  When  Lin  hit  town 
he  called  all  of  his  old  buddies  to  say 
hello — and  when  he  arrived  on  the 
set,  he  was  dragging  twenty-five  of 
them  along  with  him.  Imagine  the  con- 
sternation on  Bing's  face  when  he  saw 
the  commissary  lunch  tag  signed  by  his 
assistant:  "Twenty-six  lunches,  Lind- 
say and  friends.  .  .  ." 

Banjo-Eyes'  Birthday:  "I'm  26  years 
older  than  Jack  Benny,"  says  Eddie 
Cantor  with  a  laugh.  On  April  22,  Eddie 
and  his  wife  Ida  drew  their  first  Social 
Security  check— $323.40.  The  usually 
confidential  information  was  released 
by  Eddie  to  publicize  the  insurance 
benefits  of  Social  Security  for  all  men 
over  age  65  (62,  for  women).  Cantor, 
who  celebrated  his  65th  birthday  last 
January  with  an  hour-long  television 
show,  says,  "My  Social  Security,  and 
yours,  too,  is  just  like  any  other  in- 
surance policy  ...  it  pays  off,  and  be- 
believe  me,"  says  Banjo-Eyes,  "I  intend 
to  collect!" 

Did  You  Know:  That  when  Jack  Webb 
was  in  high  school,  he  wrote  poetry 
.  .  .  that  Mercedes  McCambridge  al- 
ways wanted  to  be  a  newspaper  re- 
porter .  .  .  that  George  Brent  breeds 


race  horses  .  .  .  that  Edgar  Bergen's 
hobby  is  antique  autos? 

Postal  Present:  The  Lennon  Sisters' 
Venice,  California  mailman,  Jack  Arter, 
is  their  best  buddy.  The  Lennons  grew 
up  with  Jack,  who  has  delivered  their 
mail  for  the  last  thirteen  years,  whis- 
tling while  he  did  it.  But  during  the 
past  few  months,  their  fans  had  sent 
so  many  letters  and  packages  that  poor 
Jack  could  barely  stagger  up  the  front 
steps,  and  was  too  out  of  wind  to  whis- 
tle. So  the  girls  invested  in  a  present  for 
him — the  largest  mailbox  they  could 
find — and,  to  save  Jack  steps,  they 
planted  it  next  to  the  sidewalk.  Thank 
you,  Jack  is  once  again  whistling. 

Who's  Breaking  Records?  Pat  Boone's 
"Why,  Baby,  Why?"  over  the  million 
mark.  Pat  has  just  bought  $100,000 
worth  of  real  estate  in  Brentwood  and 
Palm  Springs.  .  .  .  Tab  Hunter  started 
taking  singing  lessons  when  he  was  16. 
It  didn't  pay  off  until  recently,  when  his 
two  records,  "Young  Love"  and  "99 
Ways,"  skyrocketed  across  the  radio 
and  TV  airways,  bringing  Tab  a 
quarter-of-a-million.  .  .  .  Breaking  rec- 
ords of  a  different  sort,  Climax!,  on 
CBS-TV,  has  just  been  signed  through 
1960;  and  Matinee  Theater,  brain-child 
of  producer  Albert  McCleery,  has  been 
set  through  1958  on  NBC-TV.  .  .  . 
Tommy  Sands'  (Continued  on  page  75) 


C|  WHEN  YOU       T.T       # 

olor  your  Hair 

Your  appearance,  your  whole  personality 
come  vibrantly  "alive"  when  your  hair 
gleams  with  glorious,  sparkling  color. 
IT'S  SO  EASY  WITH  EITHER  ONE  OF  THESE 
SAFE,  TEMPORARY  RINSES.  TRY  IT  TODAY! 

ff£dt£c  COLORINSE 

GIVES   COLOR-HIGHLIGHTS 
and  beautiful  sheen! 

Use  Nestle  Colorinse  after  shampooing  to 
enhance  your  natural  hair  color,  add 
glorious  new  lustre,  remove  dulling  sham- 
poo film,  make  hair  softer,  silkier,  easier 
to  manage.  Easy-to-use  Colorinse  quickly 
rinses  in  —  easily  washes  out!  Conies  in 
12  glamorous  colors.  290,  500. 

ff£dt£&  COLORTINT 

ADDS   COLOR  THAT   LASTS 
through  3  shampoos! 

Nestle  Colortint  gives  hair  rich,  intense, 
ail-over  color  but  is  not  a  permanent  dye! 
It  intensifies  your  natural  hair  color  OR 
—  adds  exciting  NEW  color.  Lanolin-rich 
Colortint  also  blends-in  gray,  streaked 
or  faded  hair  to  youthful  new  beauty. 
10  triple-strength  colors.  290,  500. 


11 


OF  MANY  WORDS 


If  he  has  a  hobby,  Bergen  says,  it  would  be 
sleuthing    out    literary    facts    and    fallacies. 


He  rides  a  motorcycle,  or  falls  back 
on  a  bike — "figuratively,"   he  insists. 


12 


Too  happy  for  hobbies,  says  Bergen,   "I  find  my  satisfaction 
in  my  work" — and  with  his  wife  Jean  and  sons  Derek  and  Scott. 


Address  Bergen  Evans  in  Chicago,  the  world  of  words,  realm  of  ideas. 


Teacher's  dirty  looks"  don't  bother  Bergen  Evans' 
students — as  long  as  they  laugh  at  his  jokes.   Which 
isn't  hard.   The  jokes  are  funny.   The  wit  was  so 
lively,   in  fact,  that  it  bounded  the  Northwestern 
University  English  professor  into  a  coast-to-coast  class. 
Evans  is  still  at  work  taking  the  pain  out  of  grammar 
and  the  bugaboos  out  of  book  learning.  .  .  .  On 
radio,  there  is  the  man,  the  mind  and  the  microphone 
combining  to   deliver  provocative   "spoken"   essays   on 
Of  Many  Things.  Ranging  from  the  nature  of  humor, 
happiness  or  Hemingway  to  the  new  suburbia  or  the 
old  Machiavelli,  it  is  heard  on  the  Westinghouse  Broad- 
casting   stations    (WBZ-WBZA    in    Boston-Springfield, 
KYW  in  Philadelphia,  KDKA  in  Pittsburgh,  WOWO 
in   Fort  Wayne,   KEX   in   Portland,   WIND   in 
Chicago)  and  on  New  York  City's  Station  WNYC.  .  .  . 
Bergen  joins  authors,  lecturers  and  raconteurs  on 
The  Last  Word,  seen  Sunday  at  3:30  P.M.  on  CBS-TV 
and  heard  Saturday  at  6:30  P.M.  on  CBS  Radio. 
The  subject  is  usage  and  grammar,  and,  with  Evans  to 
keep  the  arguments  brewing,  it's  a  stimulating 
libation.   Behind  the  scenes,  Bergen's  the  man  behind 
the  questions  on  $64,000  Question  and  Challenge.  .  .  . 
Born  near  Dayton,  Ohio,  Evans  spent  his  boyhood 
in  England,  where  his  doctor-father  was  in  the 
consular  service.   The  elder  Dr.  Evans  likes  to  tell  of 
how  young  Bergen  would  mumble  in  the  London 
streetcars    until    somebody    asked    him    what    he    was 
mumbling  about.    "Kipling,"  Bergen  would  answer, 
then  climb  on  the  seat  to  declaim  the  rest  of  the 
piece.  .  .  .  Author  of  "The  Natural  History  of  Nonsense," 
"The  Spoor  of  Spooks,"  and  a  new  "Dictionary  of 
American  Usage,"  Bergen  recalls  that  his  initial 
broadcasting  adventure  was  unimpressive.   When  the 
dean  heard  his  audition  record  for  a  University  radio 
program,  he  suggested  politely  that  Evans  take  a  course 
in  remedial  speech.  But  you  can't  keep  an  ebullient 
man  down.   In  1949,  Bergen  joined  the  panel  of 
Majority  Rules,  then  really  made  his  mark  on  Down 
You  Go.    "When  I  first  went  on  the  air,  speech 
students  would  approach  me  and  tell  me  I  had  glottal 
stop  and  such  things,"  Bergen  recounts.    "When  the 
show  succeeded,  it  was  too  bitter  a  blow  for  them." 
.  .  .  Bergen  met  his  wife  Jean  when  she,  a  Vassar  grad, 
was  taking  some  extension   courses — not  Bergen's — at 
Northwestern.  They  live  with  their  two  sons — Derek,  13, 
and   Scott,   11 — in   suburban   Northfield.    Professes 
the  professor,  "The  besetting  sin  of  my  life  is  to 
have  a  joke.  It  can  be  dangerous."  It  can  also  be  fun. 


information  booth 


Frank  Lovejoy 


Bull  On  Broadway 

/  would  like  to  know  something  about 
Frank  Lovejoy.  A.  S.,  Detroit,  Mich. 

It  was  a  highly  significant  departure 
that  brought  Frank  Lovejoy  down  from 
the  Exchange  boards  of  Wall  Street  to 
the  boards  of  Broadway  prosceniums. 
Frank  first  hit  Broadway  in  1934  via 
Elmer  Rice's  "Judgment  Day."  The  big 
break  had  followed  five  years  of  prepara- 
tion for  the  way  of  a  Thespian,  marked  by 
a  stiff  apprenticeship  at  the  Brooklyn 
Theater  Mart,  where  he  had  served  on 
evenings  free  from  runner  duties  along  a 
very  depressed  Wall  Street.  A  short  while 
afterwards,  a  "Pursuit  of  Happiness" 
touring  company  closed  down  abruptly  in 
Cincinnati — leaving  Frank  stranded.  With 
a  knack  for  "turning  a  'bear'  into  a 
'bull,' "  to  use  the  brokerage  vernacular, 
he  won  a  staff  job  at  WLW.  On  his  return 
to  New  York,  Frank  found  no  lack  of  work. 
His  radio  performances — which  have  in- 
cluded starring  roles  in  Gangbusters,  Mr. 
District  Attorney,  Boston  Blackie  and 
numerous  other  mystery  serials — now  total 
in  excess  of  5,000  separate  network  pro- 
ductions. In  1940,  he  returned  to  Broad- 
way in  "The  Snark  Was  a  Bojum" — a 
misleading  title,  it  turned  out,  for  the 
play  was  a  "turkey."  But  it  did  serve  to 
introduce  Frank  to  a  young  stage  and 
radio  actress,  Joan  Banks,  whom  he  mar- 
ried shortly  after  the  play  closed.  They 
have  two  children,  Judith,  now  12,  and 
Stephen,  9.  .  .  .  Frank  is  known  to  the 
movie  audiences,  too,  especially  for  his 
roles  in  "Champion,"  "Julie"  and  "Stra- 
tegic Air  Command."  For  the  past  year, 
he's  been  "Mike  Barnett,"  private  dick  on 
NBC-TV's  Man  Against  Crime  series,  and 
several  other  protagonists  on  Playhouse 
90,  Four  Star  Playhouse  and  Ford  Theater 
productions.  He  may  star  in  a  new  TV 
series  come  fall.  Frank's  often  heard  on 
radio's  Suspense  and  Family  Theater 
dramas,  often  co-starring  with  his  wife.  .  .  . 
All  told,  it  was  no  "walk  up  "he  plank" 
Frank  elected  some  20-odd  years  ago  when 
he  strolled  north  to  Broadway. 


No  Nonsense 

The  World  History  class  at  Massey  Hill 
High  School  has  found  programs  like 
NBC-TV's  Bengal  Lancers  very  helpful. 
Could  we  have  some  information  on  Phil 
Carey,  who  is  Lt.  Rhodes  on  that  program? 
J.  B.,  Fayetteville,  N.  C. 

Eugene  Joseph  Carey,  known  to  TV 
audiences  as  Lt.  Michael  Rhodes  of  the 
77th  Bengal  Lancers,  was  always  very 
happy  with  his  own  given  name,  or,  at 
least,  with  the  seemly  contraction  "Gene." 
But  his  studio,  Warner  Bros.,  was  adamant 
and,  in  1950,  Gene  Carey  was  rechristened, 
albeit  sans  ceremony,  Phil  Carey,  and 
launched  on  "Operation  Pacific,"  replete 
with  new  moniker  and  new  career.  After 
that,  the  sailing  was  smooth.  Phil  re- 
members that  stars  can  be  very  helpful  to 
a  young  actor.  "Working  with  a  Wayne  or 
a  Cooper  as  I  did  those  first  few  years,  you 
find  out  they're  nice  to  you  if  you're  nice 
to  work  with.  Those  pros  like  to  help,  but 
they  don't  like  to  put  up  with  nonsense 
when  they're  working."  .  .  .  Born  in  Hack- 
ensack  in  1925  (July  15th,  to  be  exact), 
Phil  served  in  the  Marines  for  three  years 
of  World  War  II,  planned  to  attend  Notre 
Dame  on  his  G.I.  allotment.  Instead,  while 
awaiting  admission  there,  he  was  lured  by 
a  friend  to  Miami  U.,  where  he  was  so 
successful  in  college  dramatic  productions 
that  he  decided  to  chance  the  field.  "I've 
never  regretted  it,"  declares  Phil.  And  he 
never  regretted  Miami  U.,  either,  for  it 
was  there  he  met  art  student  Maureen 
Peppier.  Married  in  1949,  they  now  have 
three  children:  Linda,  almost  7,  Jeffrey, 
almost  6,  and  Lisa  Ann,  just  over  one. 
They  live  in  a  ranch  house  in  Sherman 
Oaks,  California,  and  Phil  yearns  for  a 
working-ranch  life,  some  day.  .  .  .  With 
a  capacity  for  work  matched  only  by  his 
enthusiasm,  Phil  Carey  is  a  polished  per- 
former, self-aware  and  ambitious.  He  has 
great  hopes  for  the  Lancers,  but  loves  mov- 
ies, too,  is  currently  in  "Wicked  As  They 
Come"  and  "Shadow  on  the  Window." 
{Continued   on  page   85) 


Phil  Carey 


MILES 


NERVINE 


help  him  relax  and  be 
"fun-to-be-with"  again 

You're  lucky  if  your  husband  is 
pushing  hard  for  success.  Occasion- 
ally, though,  such  a  man  finds  it 
hard  to  calm  down  and  relax — 
nervous  tension  "bottles  up"  his 
best  disposition.  Then,  see  how 
gently,  yet  effectively  miles  nervine 
can  help  your  man  feel  tranquil  and 
serene ...  be  "fun-to-be-with"  again! 
So  many  modern  men  and  women 
also  use  miles  nervine  when  they're 
too  restless  to  sleep  at  night. 
Miles  nervine  relaxes  you  and  lets 
you  sleep — naturally.  Follow  the 
label — avoid  excessive  use.  Miles 
nervine  has  a  long  record  of  satis- 
faction in  use.  Buy  it  at  any  drugstore 
—in  effervescent  tablets  or  liquid. 

Soothe  nerves . 

feel  calm  and  tranquil  with 

mhe£NERVINE 

At  any  drugstore. 

No  Prescription  Needed! 

Miles  Laboratories,  Inc.,  Elkhart,  Ind 


13 


Inside 


Bill   Leonard's   beat   is   a    city   with    as    many   stories   as    it   has    people. 


New  York  is  too  big  for  a  formula — and 
so  is  a  show  about  New  York. 
Taking  it  from  there,  Bill  Leonard  tells 
tales  on  the  tall  city  in  Eye  On  New 
York,  seen  on  the  CBS -TV  network  each 
Saturday  at  2  P.M.  EDT,  and  on  This  Is  New 
York,  heard  on  New  York's  Station 
WCBS,  Monday  to  Friday  from  10  to 
11  P.M.  Earnest  and  outspoken,  with 
a  warm  smile  and  a  shock  of  prematurely 
iron-gray  hair,  Bill  makes  only  one  re- 
striction. "I  cover  what  interests  me,"  he 
says.  "Who  is  so  wise  that  they  can 
guess  'what  the  public  wants'?  I  figure 
people  are  not  so  very  different."  Bill  may 
delve  into  the  city's  history  or  reflect 
on  the  future,  as  he  did  when  Joe  Louis 
was  to  meet  Ezzard  Charles.  Bill  boxed 
each  of  them  to  foretell  the  outcome. 
Bill  talks  to  men  in  the  public  eye  and 
men  in  the  street.    His  series  on  West  Side 
slums  and  on  graft  in  the  housing  de- 
partment led  to  improvements  in  both 
areas.  "People  said  we  shouldn't  show 
this,"  Bill  says  of  his  series  on  the  mentally 
retarded  at  Wassau.  "But  we  did  and 
the  world  seemed  to  survive  and  maybe 
learned  something."  Bill  makes  Monday- 
morning  headlines  when,  each  Sunday 
at  11:05  A.M.,  he's  moderator  on  the 
Let's  Find  Out  panel  on  WCBS.  .  .  .  Born 
in  New  York,  Bill  stayed  for  only  three 
weeks.  Then  he  moved  to  Orange,  New 
Jersey,  and,  at  age  twelve,  to  Westport, 
Connecticut.  "I'm  the  only  guy  who  ever 
came  from  Westport,"  he  grins.  The  early 
passion  of  his  life,  and  still  a  ruling 
one,  was  "ham"  radio.  He  does  the  Amateur 
Radio  Program  for  the  Voice  of  America, 
and  holds  the  world's  record  for  a  single 
operator,  having  made  842  contacts  in 
96  hours.  ...  It  was  Budd  Schulberg, 
then  editor  of  the  Dartmouth  College 
paper,   who   first   got   Bill   interested   in 
journalism.  Bill  succeeded  Budd  as  editor, 
and,  after  graduation,  went  into  the 
newspaper  business.  Then  came  his  own 
radio  production  company  and  work 
in  the  radio  department  of  an  advertising 
agency.  He  began  This  Is  New  York 
on  December  31,  1945,  when  he  changed 
from  Lieutenant  Commander  in  the  Navy 
to  civilian.  .  .  .  Bill's  love  affair  with  New 
York  isn't  a  blind  one.  He  could  live  and 
be  happy  elsewhere — although  he  isn't 
over-anxious  to  try.  "Everybody  who  wants 
to  amount  to  anything  is  trying  to  get  to 
New  York,"  he  grins,  "and  everybody 
else  is  trying  to  get  out!" 


When  an  apartment,  even  a  duplex, 
is  "home,"  a  window  is  the  "garden." 


"I'm  as  good   at  cooking,"   says 
Bill,  "as  I'm  bad  at  gardening." 


Ham   radio's  a   passion.   Bill's  been  to 
100  countries  by  radio,  65  in  person. 


14 


COME  INTO 
MY  KITCHEN 


To  Marjorie  Mariner,  sharing 
recipes  over  WFMJ-TV  is  just  like 
visiting  over  the  back  fence 


! 


Assistant  "My  Margaret"  Hertok  shares  Marjorie's 
love  of  cooking — be  it  muffins  or  more  exotic  fare. 


At  home,  Marjorie  tends  to  her  mending,  Janis  to  her 
homework,  Minola  to  training  Irish  setter  Chet  to  "sit." 
Janis  likes  to  cook,  too,  perks  up  dishwashing  with  phone. 


My  only  ambition,"  says  Marjorie  Mariner,  "was  to 
get  married."  And  Marjorie's  career  as  a  wife  and 
mother  has  always  come  first.  That  she's  a  television 
star,  too,  on  Station  WFMJ-TV  in  Youngstown,  Ohio,  is 
the  icing  atop  her  cake.  "It's  wonderful  when  a  gal  can 
cook  and  talk  and  get  paid  for  it,"  she  laughs.  .  .  .  On 
Kitchen  Corner,  seen  each  weekday  from  1:15  to  1:45 
P.M.,  she  encourages  a  love  for  cooking  and  an  aware- 
ness of  better  food  habits  for  better  health.  "And  shar- 
ing of  recipes,"  says  Marjorie,  "is  just  like  visiting  over 
the  back  fence."  Each  day,  her  "visit"  is  different. 
Monday,  it's  seasonal  cooking  ideas;  Tuesday's  the  day 
for  club  ideas;  Thursday,  for  special  diets.  On  Wednes- 
day and  Friday,  she  invites  a  guest  homemaker  to 
prepare  her  favorite  recipe.  Marjorie  is  also  heard  daily 
on  WFMJ  Radio  at  8: 45  A.M.,  when  she  joins  Bob  Jolly, 
Bob  Locke  and  Kathryn  Leskosky  on  the  Coffee  An' 
panel.  .  .  .  Marjorie's  home  has  always  been  in  Youngs- 
town and  her  earliest  recollection  of  public  appearances 
are  times  her  mother,  who  wrote  poems,  lifted  her  over 
the  rostrum  at  church  to  "speak"  them.  Her  interest  in 
cooking  started  early,  too,  and  she  baked  her  first  cake 


when  she  was  just  seven.  She  studied  home  economics 
and  nutrition  at  Ohio  State  and  taught  school  for  five 
years.  "Then  I  married  the  first  love  I  ever  had,"  says 
Marjorie.  "We  had  not  dated  for  years  and  then  we  met 
again  after  college  and  fell  madly  in  love  again,  this 
time  for  keeps."  And  so  she  married  Minola  Mariner, 
a  civil  engineer  in  construction  work.  They  have  a  son, 
Joseph,  who's  a  sophomore  at  Ohio  Northern  University, 
where  he's  preparing  to  be  a  lawyer.  Daughter  Janis,  a 
senior  at  high  school,  wants  to  study  journalism.  The 
Mariners'  home  is  a  remodeled  farmhouse  with  ten 
acres  of  land  and  three  dogs.  "Do  they  ever  love  what's 
left  over  of  my  cooking,"  laughs  Marjorie.  .  .  .  Her 
broadcasting  career  began  when  Marjorie  was  asked  to 
judge  some  recipes  in  a  contest  on  radio.  This  led  to  a 
daily,  five-minute  show.  "When  TV  started,"  she  says, 
"it  seemed  natural  to  do  a  cooking  show."  While  teach- 
ing nutrition  classes  for  the  American  Red  Cross,  she 
received  what  she  considers  her  greatest  compliment. 
"Please  send  Marjorie,"  the  women  requested.  "She's  not 
too  smart  and  we  can  understand  her  and  how  she  loves 
to  cook — just  like  us."  Marjorie  thinks  that's  just  fine. 


15 


ENDS  DULL  DRY 
"THIRSTY"  HAIR 


Q 

A 


How  do  you  make  your  hair 
so  lustrous  and  shining? 


By  following  my 
hairdresser  s  advice 
and  using  Lanolin 
Discovery.  It's  the 
greaseless  hairdressing  that 
replaces  natural 
beauty  oils. 


What's  the  differ- 
ence between 
Lanolin  Discovery 
and  other  hair- 
dressings? 

Ordinary 
hairdressings 
ff coat"  your  hair 
*f  — make  it  oily — 

Lanolin  Discovery's  misty  fine  spray  is  absorbed 
into  every  hair  right  down  to  your  scalp. 

To  enhance  the  natural  color  of  your  hair— to  get  a  shimmery  satiny 
sheen  with  deep  fascinating  highlights,  just  spray  on  Lanolin  Discovery 
Hairdressing  and  brush  a  little.  In  just  seconds  you  get  the  same 
beautiful  results  as  brushing  your  hair  100  strokes  a  day. 


ttM*L 


ery 


16 


THE  NEW  HAIRDRESSING  IN  SPRAY  FORM 

$1.25  and  $1.89 

both,  plus  tax 


Used  and  recommended  by  leading  beauticians.  Available  wherever  cosmetics  are  sold 


showing  this  month 


BERLIN  CORRESPONDENT  (RKO): 
Mild  World  War  II  thriller  casts  Dana  An- 
drews as  an  American  newsman  who  makes 
like  Superman  in  Nazi  Germany,  fooling  the 
Ostapo,   rescuing  sweetie  Virginia  Gilmore. 

BILL  OF  DIVORCEMENT  (RKO) :  Mem- 
orable acting  by  Katharine  Hepburn  and  the 
late  John  Barry  more.  As  his  daughter,  she 
finds  her  happiness  threatened  by  his  fight 
with  mental  illness. 

BORN  TO  KILL  (RKO):  Determinedly 
tough  crime  story.  Murderer  Lawrence  Tier- 
ney  snares  himself  a  rich,  innocent  wife, 
with  the  aid  of  equally  hardboiled  Claire 
Trevor.    Good  acting,  sordid  plot. 

DOCTOR  TAKES  A  WIFE,  THE  (Co- 
lumbia): Pleasantly  dizzy  comedy  plants 
bachelor  Ray  Milland  and  lady  bachelor 
Loretta  Young  in  the  same  apartment.  For 
business  reasons,  they  have  to  pretend  they're 
married.    You  guess  what  happens. 

FOREVER  AMBER  (20th):  As  an  ad- 
venturess in  17th-century  England,  Linda 
Darnell  collects  a  variety  of  men,  including 
George  Sanders,  as  King  Charles  II.  But  she 
can't  rapture  her  true  love,  seafaring  Cornel 
Wilde. 

FURY  AT  FURNACE  CREEK  (20th): 
Good,  solid  Western.  Gambler  Vic  Mature 
and  Army  officer  Glenn  Langan  plot  in  dif- 
ferent ways  to  save  their  dead  father's  good 
name.    Coleen  Gray  is  Vic's  girl. 

GALLANT  JOURNEY  (Columbia):  As  a 
little-known  pioneer  of  aviation,  Glenn  Ford 
does  glider  flights  in  the  1880's,  beating  the 
Wright  brothers  into  the  air.  Janet  Blair's 
his  loyal  wife. 

GARDEN  OF  ALLAH  (U.A.) :  Colorful, 
old-style  love  story  of  the  desert,  teaming 
Marlene  Dietrich  with  Charles  Boyer,  as  a 
renegade  monk. 

IN  NAME  ONLY  (RKO):  Strong,  adult 
treatment  of  a  marital  triangle.  Cary  Grant 
is  the  well-meaning,  suburban  New  York 
husband;  Kay  Francis,  his  selfish  wife;  the 
late  Carole  Lombard,  a  young  widow  who 
truly  loves  him. 

LODGER,  THE  (20th):  The  classic  true 
story  of  London's  Jack  the  Ripper  gets  an 
elegant  film  translation.  The  late  Laird 
Cregar  plays  the  mad  killer:  Merle  Oberon, 
a  potential  victim;  George  Sanders,  a  Scot- 
land  Yard  man. 

MOSS  ROSE  (20th):  Smooth  murder  mys- 
tery, set  in  England.  Social-climbing  chorine 
Peggy  Cummins  trails  suspect  Vic  Mature  to 
a  country  estate  where  Ethel  Barrymore  holds 
sway. 

OUR  WIFE  (Columbia)  :  Frothy  farce  with 
highly  engaging  players.  Musician  Melvyn 
Douglas  gets  out  of  an  alcoholic  fog  to  find 
romance  with  scientist  Ruth  Hussey.  Ex- 
wife  Ellen  Drew  interferes. 

TALL  IN  THE  SADDLE  (RKO):  Vigor- 
ous horse  opera  with  a  lively  love  interest. 
Fighting  for  his  inheritance,  aided  by  pal 
Gabby  Hayes,  John  Wayne  has  time  for 
romance  with  rancher  Ella  Raines. 


COOL 


ee 


v_^€_rJK  cibJL  JLC^€3 


§§ 


NEW    CRYSTAL-BRIGHT    BRILLIANCE    FOR    LIPS    AND    FINGERTIPS 


It  glitters . .  .it  dazzles . .  .it  crackles  with  excitement!  It's  the  new,  all-the-rage  color  by  Cutex ...  an  electric  spark 
of  coral,  flashed  with  a  potent  touch  of  pink.  Breathtaking  the  way  "Coral  Ice"  lights  up  your  spring  and  summer 
fashions!  Bewitching  the  way  it  brings  out  the  secret  fire  in  you!  And  wait  till  he  sees  you  with  this  "real  cool"  look ! 
So  tempting— it's  tingling! 


Coral  Ice"  Swimsuit  by  Cole  of  California 


BOATER  BY  MR.  JOHN 


c  u 


YOU'LL   LOVE  creamy,  lasting 

Cutex  Lipstick  . . .  and  the 

matching  nail  polish  (both 

regular  and  iridescent  Pearl) 

that  wears  longest  of  all! 


FCHTIX1 


Ahoy,  My  Mate! 


Deborah   and   Penelope  watch   Bob  as   Dan   Tempest,   but  they   don't   link   this   swashbuckler  with   their   gentle   dad. 


Our  neighbors  at  Hampstead  Heath,  a  residential  area 
just  outside  of  London,  half  expect  Bob  to  come 
home  every  night  armed  with  cutlass  and  fierce 
scowl.  Instead,  a  tall,  respectably  dressed  young  man 
strolls  sedately  up  our  walk  to  be  greeted  with  shouts  of 
affection  from  our  two  little  girls,  Deborah,  aged  three, 
and  Penelope,  who  is  two. 

The  wholly  unwarlike  gentleman  is  my  husband,  Rob- 
ert Shaw.  In  the  starring  role  of  Dan  Tempest  in  the 
CBS-TV  series,  The  Buccaneers,  he  captains  the  crew 
of  the  pirate  galleon,  Sultana.  He  swings  from  the  rig- 
ging, knife  in  teeth,  and  generally  operates  in  the  midst 
of  ferocious  violence.  But  always,  he  fights  for  a  good 
cause,  the  brave  prototype  of  a  seafaring  Robin  Hood. 


Bob  and  I  first  met  when  both  of  us  were  touring  with 
the  Old  Vic  company.  I  played  fiery  ingenues  and  he 
called  me  his  "red-haired  vixen."  .  .  .  Bob  actually  en- 
joys writing  as  much  as  acting,  and  one  of  his  plays,  "Off 
the  Mainland,"  was  produced  recently  in  London. 
Brought  up  in  Truro,  very  near  the  Cornish  port  of 
Falmouth  where  most  of  the  scenes  for  The  Buccaneers 
are  filmed,  Bob  finds  it  quite  natural  to  spend  most  of  his 
working  days  on  a  ship's  deck.  As  for  me,  I  plan  to  return 
to  the  stage  when  our  girls  are  older.  Meanwhile,  I'm 
quite  content  to  be  both  wife  to  Robert  Shaw,  a  mild- 
mannered  and  devoted  husband  and  father,  and  mate  to 
Dan  Tempest,  a  bold  buccaneer.  Either  way,  I  hope  he 
never  makes  me  walk  the  plank.  He  better  not! 


18 


As  buccaneer  Dan  Tempest, 

he's  swashbuckling;  as  my  husband, 

Robert  Shaw,  just  s' wonderful ! 

By  JENNIFER  BOURKE  SHAW 


Perhaps    I    shouldn't   reveal   this,    but   Bob   concocts 
dishes  I'm  sure  no  pirate  ever  ate — much  less  cooked! 


And  what  brave  buccaneer  ever  batted  at  cricket  or 
lavished  the  loving  care  Bob  does  on  our  Rolls  Royce? 


As  Dan  Tempest,  Bob  spends  most  of  his  working  days  aboard 
the  Sultana.  He  grew  up  near  by  the  port  where  it's  docked. 


Robert  Shaw  stars  in  The  Buccaneers,  seen  on  CBS-TV. 
Sat.,   7:30   P.M.   EDT,   for   Sylvania   Electric   Products. 


19 


your  golden  hour . . .  your  own  special  time . . . 

when  you  alone  can  know  the  wonder 
of  a  warm  SweetHeart  bath 

Such  a  lovely  interlude,  your  own  SweetHeart  Bath.  The  quiet  luxury 

of  a  little  leisure.  Then  the  warm  glow,  and  the  fresh,  lively  tingle  your  skin  adores. 

How  SweetHeart  manages  to  make  you  feel  so  good  is  SweetHeart's  own 

special  secret.  We  can  tell  you  this  much  though:  SweetHeart's  blossom-light 

fragrance,  graceful  oval  swirl  and  gentle,  gentle  softness  are  only  part 

of  it.  The  rest?  Well,  try  SweetHeart  for  your  hands  and  face  or  all  of  you  and  see. 

now  ""glamorapped"  in  new  gleaming  foil 


^*U 


;)1957,     PURE*    CORP 


because  SweetHeart 
adores  you  so! 


Lawrence  Welk  extended  a  welcoming  hand — and  a  contract  with  his  band — just  as  Jack's  Navy  duty  ended. 

}    '      j  |  J   j   |  fp  'I         j  J    ||j  Kj 


IMEL  from  INDIANA 


True  to  the  best  land-locked  Hoosier 


traditions,  Jack  joined  the  Navy- 


to  conquer  the  world  on  the  Welk  shows 


By  MAURINE  REMENIH 


Not  many  sailors  make  an  overnight  switch  from 
Navy  anonymity  to  the  center  of  a  TV  spotlight. 
Julius  La  Rosa  did  it,  some  years  ago.    And 
now  comes  Jack  Imel,  new  marimba  player  and  dancer 
with  the  Lawrence  Welk  organization,  on  both  the 
Top  Tunes  And  New  Talent  show  on  Monday  nights,  and 
the  "Champagne  Music"  hour  on  Saturday  evenings. 

Jack  signed  a  contract  with  the  Welk  organization 
last  January  9— two  days  before  the  official  termination 
of  his  stretch  in  the  Navy.   It  was  a  wonderful  break 
for  Jack  Imel.   But  the  deal  was  hardly  one-sided — the 
Welk  organization  got,  in  Jack,  a  man  who  has  been 
preparing  for  twenty  years  for  just  the  type  of  spot 


Continued 


21 


Above,  Jack  shows  son  Greg  his  Navy  "Oscars"  and 
photo  from  first  appearance  on  Welk  shows  in  1957. 
Below,  he  shows  daughter  Debbie  "how  high  is  up." 


Norma  and  Jack  were  childhood  sweethearts  back  in 
Portland,  Indiana,  where  both  played  in  the  school 
band.  They  were  wed  in  1 95 1 ,  when  Jack  was  just  1 9. 


IMEL  from  INDIANA 

(Continued) 


which  their  big  Monday  and  Saturday  shows  give  him. 

When  you  learn  that  Jack  is  only  in  his  mid-twenties 
now,  it  doesn't  take  advanced  mathematics  to  figure  he 
was  practically  born  a  musician.  That's  what  his  mother 
thought,  back  in  Portland,  Indiana,  when  she  watched 
her  only  child,  as  the  four-year-old  danced  to  the  tunes 
coming  in  on  the  radio.  She  sent  him  off  to  dancing 
school,  and  saw  to  it  that  he  took  piano  lessons.  Then, 
when  Jack  was  about  fifteen,  his  mother  went  to  a 
movie  one  night,  and  saw  a  young  boy  playing  a 
marimba.  "That  would  be  a  good  instrument  for  Jack 
to  try,"  she  decided — and  ordered  one  for  him  the  very 
next  day. 

That  instrument  has  become  as  much  a  part  of  Jack 
as  his  good  right  arm.  He  claims  he'd  as  soon  lose  one 
as  the  other.  The  marimba  carried  him  through  high 
school,  directed  his  course  in  the  Navy,  and  now  has 
enabled  him  to  hit  a  spot  where  he  can  assure  his 
family  of  a  more-than-comfortable  living.  If  he  pats 
the  "vibes"  (as  he  calls  it)  with  an  almost-personal 
affection,  it's  understandable. 

Taking  lessons  on  the  marimba  wasn't  the  easiest 
thing  to  do  there  in  Portland,  which  had  a  population 
of  10,000.  There  wasn't  any  teacher  in  town.  There  was, 
however,  a  marimba  instructor  in  Richmond,  some  fifty 
miles  away.  So  a  compromise  was  effected.  Both  the 
instructor  and  Jack  drove  to  Marion,  a  town  half-way 
between.  There,  at  the  home  of  a  girl  who  was  also 
studying  marimba,  Jack  got  his  lessons. 

He  was  an  apt  pupil,  and  in  no  time  was  playing  for 
school  and  club  programs  in  Portland.  Dorothy  Durbin, 
who  had  a  booking  agency  in  near-by  Fort  Wayne  (and 
who  also  started  that  other  Hoosier,  Herb  Shriner,  on 
his  way),  got  Jack  some  dates  at  lodge  meetings  and 
conventions  in  near-by  towns. 

Jack's  bookings  became  so  heavy,  in  his  last  years 
at  high  school,  that  it  became  slightly  complicated,  just 
fitting  them  in  with  his  school  work.  His  folks  would 
pick  him  up  after  school,  and  they'd  drive — usually  some 


22 


"Navy  wife"  Norma  followed  where  Jack's  duty  led.   Greg  was  born  at  Great 
Lakes  Naval  Hospital  in  1953,  Debbie  was  born  in  San  Diego  two  years  later. 


fifty  miles — to  play  at  some  Elks  or  Eagles  lodge  meeting. 
Then,  late  at  night,  after  the  show  was  over,  the  Imels 
would  head  back  for  Portland.  There  was  one  longer 
trip,  when  Jack  made  it  back  to  Portland  just  in  time 
for  his  first  class  in  the  morning!  In  all,  Pop  Imel  drove 
the  family  car  about  100,000  miles,  during  Jack's  years 
in  high  school,  just  chauffeuring  his  offspring  around  to 
his  various  appearances. 

Jack  realizes  now  that  this  was  about  the  best  "basic 
training"  any  performer  could  get.  At  an  early  age, 
he  was  trained,  through  these  club  dates,  to  be  at  ease 


in  front  of  an  audience,  and  to  be  in  control  of  himself 
and  his  instrument. 

Which  is  not  to  say  that  all  those  youthful  public 
appearances  went  smoothly,  and  without  incident.  There 
was  one  horrible  night  when  he  was  scheduled  to  play 
for  the  Eagles  Lodge  in  Richmond.  He  was  given  a  big- 
buildup  type  of  introduction,  and  walked  onstage  toward 
his  waiting  marimba.  Only  then  did  he  discover  he'd 
left  his  hammers  at  home!  And,  in  case  you  haven't  no- 
ticed, one  just  doesn't  play  a  marimba  without  hammers 
— those  implements  which  look  (Continued  on  page  66) 


The  Lawrence  Welk  Show  is  seen  on  ABC-TV,  Sat.,  9  to  10  P.M.,  sponsored  by  the  Dodge  Dealers  of  America.  Lawrence  Welk's  Top  Tunes  And 
New  Talent  is  seen  on  ABC-TV,  Mon.,  9:30  to  10:30  P.M.,  for  both  Dodge  and  Plymouth.  On  ABC  Radio,  Lawrence  Welk  and  his  band  are 
heard  Sat.,  at  10:05  P.M.,  once  a  week  on  ABC's  Dancing  Party,  M-F,  9:30  P.M.,  also  other  times;  see  local  papers.  (All  times  given  are  EDT) 


23 


Colorful  as  their  voices:  Left  to  right — Teri  Keane,  Claire  Niesen,  Sandy  Becker,  Florence  Freeman,  and  Claudia  Morgan. 

£%ctu&we{ 


FIRST  COLOR  PHOTOGRAPH  EVER 
TAKEN  OF  THE  BELOVED,  TALENTED 
STARS  OF  ALL  TEN  CBS  RADIO 
DAYTIME  DRAMATIC  "SMASH  HITS" 


No  theater  on  Broadway,  not  all  Times  Square 
itself,  could  boast  the  fabulously  long-run  hits 
represented. by  these  smiling  stars — who  hold  the  same 
devoted  audiences,  day  after  day,  while  adding  new 
generations  of  listeners. 

The  average  run  of  these  current  CBS  Radio  day- 
time dramas  is  about  eighteen  years.  The  two  young- 
est celebrate  their  tenth  anniversary  this  year.  The 
two  oldest  were  premiered  back  in  1933,  and  their  more 
than  6,000  scripts  (apiece!)  are  approximately  the 
equivalent  of  350  full-length  stage  plays. 


Into  your  homes  every  day  come  the  fascinating  characte 


" 


Jtellar  quintet  from  five  more  dramas:  Virginia  Payne,  Julie  Stevens,  Don  MacLaughlin,  Joan  Tompkins,  and  Vivian  Smolen. 


For  even  the  most  successful  Broadway  hit,  the  cur- 
tain must  go  down  each  night.  But  daytime  dramas 
grow  and  develop  through  the  years,  telling  "what 
happened  next"  to  characters  the  audiences  now  know 
and  love.  That's  the  secret  of  this  hit-drama  success 
story:  Well- written  scripts  about  lives  as  real  to  us 
as  our  own — superbly  acted  by  people  as  warm  and 
true  as  our  next-door  neighbors. 

The  ten  stars  pictured  here  are  best  known  for  the 
lives  they  live  each  day,  over  the  magic  microphone: 
Teri  Keane  as  The  Second  Mrs.  Burton;  Claire  Niesen 


as  Mary  Noble,  Backstage  Wife;  Sandy  Becker  as 
Young  Dr.  Malone;  Florence  Freeman  in  the  title  role 
of  Wendy  Warren  And  The  News;  Claudia  Morgan  as 
Carolyn  Nelson  in  The  Right  To  Happiness. 

And,  above:  Virginia  Payne — Ma  Perkins  herself; 
Julie  Stevens  in  the  title  role  of  The  Romance  Of 
Helen  Trent;  Don  MacLaughlin  as  Dr.  Jim  Brent  in 
The  Road  Of  Life;  Joan  Tompkins — This  Is  Nora 
Drake,  in  person;  Vivian  Smolen  as  Our  Gal  Sunday. 

They're  wonderful  people  in  their  own  right,  too,  as 
even   thumbnail  sketches   of  their   lives   will   prove! 


See  Next  Page 


ayed  by  these  radio  "greats."  Here  are  their  personal  stories 


Stars  in  the  daytime  four  CBS  radio  favorites 


9* 


w 


~w 


Colorful  as  their  voices:  Left  to  right-Ten  Keone,  Cloire  NieSen,  Sandy  Becke,     Flo,en<  e  IW 

FIRST  COLOR  PHOTOGRAPH  EVER 
TAKEN  OF  THE  BELOVED,  TALENTED 
STARS  OF  ALL  TEN  CBS  RADIO 
DAYTIME  DRAMATIC  "SMASH  HITS" 


IV 

man,  and  Claudia  Morgan.    IPellarqumtet  from  five  more  dramas:  Virginia  Payne,  Julie  Stevens,  Don  MacLaughlin,  Joan  Tompkins,  and  Vivian  Smolen 


^lo  theater  on  Broadway,  not  all  Times  Square 
■  ^  itself,  could  boast  the  fabulously  long-run  hits 
represented  by  these  smiling  stars— who  hold  the  same 
devoted  audiences,  day  after  day,  while  adding  new 
generations  of  listeners. 

t™  j  averaSe  ru«  of  these  current  CBS  Radio  day- 
J^,  i  f"?  ,s  about  eighteen  years.  The  two  young- 
1  *ate  their  tenth  anniversary  this  year.  The 
than  fi  ™nWere  Premiered  back  in  1933,  and  their  more 
em/Ll  ♦  Tl?^  (^ece!)  are  approximately  the 
equivalent  of  350  full-length  stage  plays. 


For  even  the  most  successful  Broadway  hit,  the  cur- 
tain must  go  down  each  night.  But  daytime  dramas 
grow  and  develop  through  the  years,  telling  "what 
3pened  next"  to  characters  the  audiences  now  know 
*£  ,?;  ,That's  the  secret  of  this  hit-drama  success 
Moiy:   well- written  scripts  about  lives  as  real  to  us 

i  as  our  own— superbly  acted  by  people  as  warm  and 
true  as  our  next-door  neighbors, 
livt    «,ten  ftars  P'otured  here  are  best  known  for  the 

>  Twfi?ey     ve  each  day>  over  the  magic  microphone: 
en  ft-eane  as  The  Second  Mrs.  Burton;  Claire  Niesen 


as  Mary  Noble,  Backstage  Wife;  Sandy  Becker  as 
Young  Dr.  Malone;  Florence  Freeman  in  the  title  role 
of  Wendy  Warren  And  The  News;  Claudia  Morgan  as 
Carolyn  Nelson  in  The  Right  To  Happiness. 

And,  above:  Virginia  Payne— Ma  Perkins  herself; 
Julie  Stevens  in  the  title  role  of  The  Romance  Of 
Helen  Trent;  Don  MacLaughlin  as  Dr.  Jim  Brent  in 
The  Road  Of  Life;  Joan  Tompkins— This  Is  Nora 
Drake,  in  person;  Vivian  Smolen  as  Our  Gal  Sunday. 

They're  wonderful  people  in  their  own  right,  too,  as 
even  thumbnail  sketches   of  their  lives  will   prove! 

See  Aext  Page > 


inciting  cho 


io  "greats.''  Here  are  their  personal  stc 


more  than  eight  years,  but  she's  been 
the  Backstage  Wife  of  matinee-idol 
Larry  Noble  (James  Meighan)  even 
longer — ever  since  the  drama  moved 
from  Chicago  to  New  York,  in  1945. 
Claire  herself  had  moved  to  Man- 
hattan from  her  native  Phoenix, 
Arizona,  when  she  was  8.  She  danced 
professionally  during  vacations,  still 
did  so  well  scholastically  that  she  was 
valedictorian  at  her  high-school 
graduation.  Acting  was  always  her 
first  love,  and  she  got  her  start  in  a 
Shakespearean  series  on  a  local  New 
York  station.  Reversing  the  usual 
procedure,  Claire  won  her  first 
Broadway  role  as  a  result  of  TV 
appearances.  She's  still  very  much  a 


back  on  Long  Island — with  Ruth,  son 
Curtis,  older  daughter  Joyce  and 
younger  daughter  Annelle.  .  .  . 
Florence  Freeman,  who  created  the 
title  role  in  Wendy  Warren  And  The 
News,  has  the  talent  and  training  to 
be  a  good  journalist.  But  teaching  is 
the  only  career  which  ever  side- 
tracked her  from  acting.  A  native 
New  Yorker,  Florence  gave  her  first 
recitation  in  kindergarten,  won  a 
dramatics  medal  in  high  school — 
then  earned  A.B.  and  MA.  degrees 
at  Wells  College  and  Columbia  U. 
She  was  teaching  in  Pearl  River, 
N.  Y.,  when  friends  dared  her  to  try 
radio.  She  auditioned  for  a  New 
York  station  in  earlv  morning,  was 


Claire 
Niesen 


Sandy 
Becker 


Florence 
Freeman 


Claudia 
Morgan 


Singing  has  vied  with  acting  as  a 
possible  career  for  Teri  Keane. 
She  was  born  in  New  York  City, 
where  her  mother — a  leading  colora- 
tura from  Budapest's  Royal  Opera 
House — enrolled  her  at  the  Profes- 
sional Children's  School,  thinking  it 
was  for  the  offspring  of  busy  show 
people,  rather  than  actual  child  per- 
formers. Teri's  talents  were  soon  dis- 
covered, and  she  made  her  stage 
debut  at  9 — by  19,  she'd  appeared  in 
two  Broadway  plays  and  three  musi- 
cals. She  also  got  an  early  start  in 
radio,  where  she's  best  known  today 
as  Terry  in  The  Second  Mrs.  Burton 
— a  role  she  took  over  just  this  year 
— and  as  Jocelyn  in  The  Road  Of 
Life.  Not  so  much  taller  than  her 
own  six-year-old  daughter  Sharon, 
Teri  has  won  dancing  contests,  been 
a  featured  singer  at  swank  night 
clubs,  and  still  takes  vocal  lessons. 
.  .  .  Claire  Niesen  has  been  married 
to  popular  actor  Melville  Ruick  for 


wife  offstage,  however,  designs  most 
of  her  own  chic  wardrobe,  enjoys 
needlework — and  gourmet-husband 
Mel  swears  by  (not  at)  her  cooking. 
....  Sandy  Becker's  father  wanted 
him  to  be  a  doctor,  but  Sandy  didn't 
achieve  that  status  until  he  took  over 
as  Young  Dr.  Malone  on  March  21, 
1949 — the  day  before  his  own  son 
was  born.  Radio  lured  Sandy  from 
pre-medical  studies  at  N.Y.U.  in  his 
teens.  Before  that,  he'd  dabbled  in 
puppeteering  and  dramatics  at  school 
in  Elmhurst,  on  New  York's  Long 
Island.  Sandy  made  his  mike  debut 
at  a  near-by  station,  was  an  experi- 
enced announcer  by  the  time  he  pur- 
sued his  calling  to  Charlotte,  N.C. 
There,  he  spotted  his  future  wife — 
and  recognized  her  at  first  sight, 
though  pretty  Ruth  Venable  took  a 
bit  more  persuading.  They  met  in 
June,  eloped  in  July,  had  a  church 
wedding  in  August.  Now,  in  his  mid- 
30's,  Sandy  shares  a  lovely  home — 


so  successful  they  kept  her  working 
until  after  midnight.  Since  then, 
radio  has  claimed  all  her  time — ex- 
cept for  her  home  and  community 
activities  in  near-by  New  Jersey. 
Married  to  a  clergyman,  Florence 
has  two  daughters,  Judith  and 
Deana,  now  in  college,  and  a  seven- 
year-old  son,  Leonard.  .  .  .  Claudia 
Morgan — who  has  starred  as  Caro- 
lyn in  The  Right  To  Happiness  for 
all  but  four  of  its  eighteen  years — 
was  born  crown  princess  of  a  thea- 
trical royal  family.  The  birthplace 
was  New  York  but,  by  the  time 
Claudia  was  6,  she'd  visited  every 
state  of  the  union  with  her  touring 
parents.  By  16,  she'd  played  leading 
lady  to  her  own  father,  the  late 
Ralph  Morgan,  on  Broadway,  but  re- 
turned to  private  school  after  the 
summer  work-vacation.  Following 
graduation,  she  got  good  parts  in 
other  plays  "on  her  own" — including 
the    last    drama    ever    directed    by 


Stars  in  the  daytime — your  CBS  radio  favorites 


,  (Continued) 


26 


David  Belasco.  Since  then,  she's  been 
in  many  a  stage  hit  (her  featured 
role  in  Shaw's  "The  Apple  Cart," 
last  season,  was  her  thirty-ninth  on 
Broadway),  has  been  seen  in  most 
of  the  leading  summer  theaters  and 
top  TV  playhouses.  She's  done  some 
movies  and  a  lot  of  radio — where 
working  hours  adjust  better  to  those 
of  her  husband,  Kenneth  Loane, 
who's  in  real  estate.  .  .  .  Virginia 
Payne  has  never  missed  a  perform- 
ance, though  she's  been  Ma  Perkins 
ever  since  the  drama  began  in  1933 
— in  Cincinnati,  Virginia's  own  birth- 
place. She  was  only  a  slip  of  a  girl 
then,  but  she  had  a  big,  rich  voice. 
All    her    family    were    doctors    or 


gan  in  Chicago  in  1933,  but  Julie's 
been  star  since  it  moved  to  New 
York  in  1944).  Julie  was  born  Har- 
riet Foote  in  St.  Louis,  where  she 
made  her  stage  and  radio  debuts. 
She  toured  to  the  Coast  with  a 
Shakespearean  troupe,  landed  a 
lead  at  Pasadena  Playhouse — -and  a 
contract  in  films.  She's  done  both 
movies  and  plays,  but  is  happiest  at 
a  Manhattan  mike,  just  thirty  miles 
from  home,  husband  and  children. 
Julie  became  Mrs.  Charles  Under- 
bill (he  was  then  a  Navy  officer,  is 
now  a  public-relations  exec)  the 
same  year  she  became  Helen  Trent. 
.  .  .  Don  MacLaughlin  was  a  doc- 
tor's   son,   back   in   Webster,    Iowa, 


Ad 


^     J*^       V 

\ 

i  ^^m\ 

s 

Virginia 
Payne 


Julie 
Stevens 


Don 
MacLaughlin 


scientists,  but  her  mother,  a  talented 
amateur  musician,  taught  her  bits 
of  poetry  as  soon  as  she  could  talk. 
Virginia  made  her  radio  debut  on 
WLW,  while  still  a  student.  A  star 
pupil  at  Schuster-Martin  School  of 
Drama,  she  also  earned  an  A.B.  and 
M.A.  from  Cincinnati  U.  She  studied 
music  at  the  Chicago  Conservatory, 
has  been  active  in  dramatic  groups 
wherever  she  lived,  still  does  off- 
Broadway  and  summer  plays.  Now 
living  in  New  York,  Virginia  spent 
Ma  Perkins'  vacation  last  year  doing 
a  job  Ma  could  heartily  enjoy — su- 
pervising the  building  of  a  seaside 
/cottage  in  Maine.  .  .  .  Julie  Stevens 
wouldn't  desert  The  Romance  Of 
Helen  Trent  for  anything — except 
the  birth  of  her  babies.  The  first 
ane,  Nancy,  was  born  in  1951.  The 
second,  Sarah,  was  born  last  No- 
vember. "Subbing"  for  Julie  during 
aiaternity  leave  was  Virginia  Clark, 
e  original  Helen   (the  drama  be- 


but  never  thought  of  a  medical 
career  for  himself — until  he  became 
Dr.  Jim  Brent  in  The  Road  Of  Life. 
Acting  was  his  goal,  though  he  took 
a  roundabout  way  to  success.  Don 
did  a  variety  of  jobs,  while  attend- 
ing Iowa  Wesleyan,  Northwestern, 
Iowa  U.  and  Arizona  U.  He  made  his 
mike  debut  in  Tucson,  but  tackled 
many  another  trade — including  a 
stint  at  sea — before  he  found  his 
niche  with  the  networks  in  New 
York.  Luck  changed  when  he  mar- 
ried newspaper  gal  Mary  Prugh. 
Now  he  puts  in  a  busy  week,  on  both 
radio  and  TV.  Weekends,  he  makes 
a  beeline  for  the  little  Vermont  town 
where  he  and  Mary  have  just  the 
home  of  which  they'd  dreamed  for 
teenagers  Douglas  and  Janet  and 
younger  son  Britton. . . .  Joan  Tomp- 
kins never  trained  to  be  a  nurse, 
though  she's  become  very  interested 
in  hospital  work  after  ten  years  of 
This    Is    Nora    Drake.  ■  Joan's    has 


always  been  a  fine-arts  family — 
grandparents  were  composers  and 
painters,  her  father  and  mother 
were  professional  singers,  and  the 
latter  coached  amateur  theatricals 
after  they  retired  to  the  suburbs. 
Born  in  New  York,  reared  in  near- 
by Mount  Vernon,  Joan  spent  sum- 
mer vacations  from  school  working 
with  the  Mount  Kisco  Westchester 
Playhouse,  has  since  done  Broad- 
way dramas  and  toured  as  under- 
study to  Katharine  Hepburn.  Joan's 
husband,  Karl  Swenson,  is  a  well- 
known  actor  on  the  airwaves,  but 
they've  seldom  appeared  in  the  same 
stories.  The  first — and  perhaps  still 
the  only — time  they  were  cast  as  a 


Joan 
Tompkins 


Vivian 
Smolen 


married  couple  was  on  nighttime  TV. 
.  . .  Vivian  Smolen  has  been  Our  Gal 
Sunday  for  all  but  seven  of  its  twen- 
ty years.  Born  in  New  York  City, 
where  her  father  was  a  violinist  and 
conductor,  she  had  a  thorough  train- 
ing in  music,  dancing  and  drama. 
While  attending  James  Madison 
High,  in  Brooklyn,  she  wrote  to  a 
network  for  a  children's-program 
audition,  was  soon  so  busy  on  radio 
she  had  to  give  up  her  plans  for 
college.  She  continued  her  study  of 
acting  and  singing,  has  now  taken 
up  painting,  with  classes  at  the  Mu- 
seum of  Modern  Art.  Her  favorite 
pastimes  are  traveling  and  collect- 
ing art  connected  with  the  theater 
and  its  history.  Last  year,  Vivian 
visited  London  and  was  shown  the 
sights  by  none  other  than  Alastair 
Duncan,  who  plays  Sunday's  hus- 
band, Lord  Henry — London  being 
the  "home  town"  of  both  Alastair 
and  Lord  Henry  Brinthrope  himself! 


Heard  on  CBS  Radio,  Monday  through  Friday  afternoons:  Wendy  Warren  And  The  News,  at  12  noon;  Backstage  Wife,  12:15; 
The  Romance  Of  Helen  Trent,  12:30;  Our  Gal  Sunday,  12:45;  This  Is  Nora  Drake,  1;  Ma  Perkins,  1:15;  Young  Dr.  Malone, 
1:30;    The  Road  Of  Life,   1:45;    The  Right   To  Happiness,  2;    The   Second  Mrs.  Burton,  2:15.    (All  times  given  here  are  EDT) 


27 


U! 


^_ 


Unshaken  belief  brought  Bill  Lundigan 
through  darkest  hours  to  brightest  daivn 

By  DORA  ALBERT 


The  sister  at  the  receiving  desk  of  the  Salvatore  de  Mundi 
Hospital  in  Rome  took  one  look  at  the  pale,  thin 
American  woman  who  had  arrived  with  her  husband, 
the   tall,   lanky,   good-looking   American,   and   her 
heart  was  moved  to  pity.   How  pretty  this  one  must  have 
been  before  she  became  so  ill,  she  thought.    How  sad 
that  the  professors  had  to  send  her  here  to  die.    (She  always 
thought  of  doctors  as  professors.)     "We'll  send  you 
to  your  room  in  a  wheelchair,"  she  said  gently. 

With  a  fleeting  gasp  of  strength,  the  woman  protested, 
"I  can  walk."   Her  husband  sat  there  dazed,  as  if  the 
world  were  coming  to  an  end.   He  didn't  seem  to  know 
what  words  there  were  to  say.         {Continued  on  page  72) 


i 


There's  humor,  too,  in  the  Lundigan  home.  Bill 
and  Rena  had  many  a  laugh  together,  before 
they  seriously  contemplated  matrimony.  Today, 
they  teach  Stacey  to  enjoy  the  here  and  now. 


Three  who  have  much  to  be  thankful  for — Bill,  for  one,  can 
never  fully  express  his  gratitude  for  having  his  lovely  wife, 
Rena,  and  a  healthy,  happy  Stacey  to  hold  close  to  his  heart. 


Bill  Lundigan  is  the  host  on  the  hour-long  Climax!,  seen 
every  week  over  CBS-TV,  Thursday,  from  8:30  to  9:30 
P.M.    EDT,    as    sponsored    by    Chrysler    Corporation, 


29 


THE 
"DOLLY" 


Always  tiny  and  shy — but  so  talented, 
too — Annette  Funicello  has  become 
a  Disney  star  at  the  age  of  fourteen ! 

By  GORDON  BUDGE 


A  few  years  ago,  the  rustic  two-bedroom 
house  on  Ben  Street  in  North  Hollywood, 
California,  was  known  in  the  neighborhood  simply 
as  "the  Funicello  place."   Then,  thanks  to  Joe 
and   Virginia's  brood   of  three — Annette,   Joey 
and  Mike — it  became  known  as  "the  fun  place." 
Brown-eyed,  curly-black-haired  Annette,  who 
danced  and  sang  all  (Continued  on  page  64) 


Walt  Disney's  Mickey  Mouse  Club  is  seen  on  ABC-TV,  Mon. 
thru  Fri.,  5  to  6  P.M.  EDT,  under  multiple  sponsorship. 


Pert  and  lively  today,  on  Walt  Disney's  Mickey  Mouse  Club, 
Annette  was  once  a  truly  timid  little  mouse — till  her  kinder- 
garten teacher  suggested  that  she  study  a  musical  instrument. 


30 


At  6,  she  could  beat  the  drum  for 
everyone.  Then  her  parents  noticed 
that  Annette  had  too  much  rhythm. 


At  10,  she  considered  herself  a  "sec- 
ond mother"  to  younger  brother 
Joey  and  their  baby  brother  Mike. 


At  12,  she  danced  the  "Swan  Lake' 
ballet — and  set  pointed  toe  on  the 
path  which  led  to  Disney  stardom. 


Letters  delight  her,  and  so  do  the 
sweet-scented  gifts  from  fans  who 
know  that  perfumes  are  her  hobby. 


\nnet+e,  Daddy  Joe  (who's  always  called  her  "Dolly"),  Joey,  mama  Virginia 
jnd  Mike  were  all  slightly  delirious  about  Daddy's  birthday-gift  convertible 
—but  it  was  Mike  who  almost  lost  his  head,  first  time  they  put  the  top  down! 


The  phone  doesn't  really  turn  her 
life  upside  down — she  sees  her  best 
friends  at  the  studio  all  day  bag. 


She  began  as  gospel  singer,  still 
doesn't  think  she's  a  glamour  girl. 


Charlie  ©rean,  her  fiance  and  manager,  wrote  "1492,"  novelty 
tune  paired  with  "Little  White  Lies"  on  her  new  Bally  recording. 


^fimam/St 


fma 


Betty  Johnson  knows  hard  work  hut  also  knows 
how  to  lift  a  tired  heart — including  her  own 

By  MARTIN  COHEN 

I  hate  to  wear  shoes,"  says  Betty  Johnson.    "I  can't  wait 
until  I'm  a  star  so  I  can  do  what  I  want.   Now,  some 
of  my  friends  say  that  I  embarrass  them — that  I'm  sweet  but 
corny.  But  I  just  like  to  be  myself."  Betty  Johnson  has 
no  intention  of  walking  down  Madison  Avenue  in  bare  feet. 
But,  on  the  other  hand,  she  doesn't  like  to  be  told  what 
to  do.  She  doesn't  want  to  be  made  into  something  other  than 
what  she  is.  Charlie  Grean,  Betty's  fiance  and  manager, 
remembers  that,  about  three  years  ago — when  his  office  first 
began  to  represent  Betty — they  talked  about  sophisticating 
her  with  a  new  hairdo,  a  new  nose,  and  renaming  her 
to  "Kim  Something."  Betty  listened  to  the  ideas  and  finally 
said,  "I  want  to  be  Betty  Johnson  and  keep  my  own  face. 
This  is  what  God  gave  me  and  I  just  want  to  be  me." 

Betty  is  a  five-two  blondeshell  with  beautiful  blue-green 
eyes  that  sputter  like  a  fuse.  She  has  (Continued  on  page  61) 


Basically  a   homebody,   she  sews  most  of 
her  clothes  and  is  an  excellent  cook,  too. 


33 


the  Crosby  Clan 


By  MAXINE  ARNOLD 


The  man  in  the  uninhibited  sport  shirt  got  out  of  his 
convertible  and  looked  up  and  down  Sharp  Avenue, 
casing  the  neighborhood  for  faces  he'd  known. 
He  turned  into  the  walk  of  an  old-fashioned  white  frame 
house,  whistling  while  he  awaited  the  opening  of  a 
door  which  had  opened  for  him  many  times.  .  . 

As  Margaret  Carroll  laughingly  described  it  later,  "I  had 
on  an  old  house  coat.  I  was  down  on  my   knees, 
scrubbing  the  kitchen  floor,  when  the  bell  rang.   I  went 
to   the  door — and   there   stood   Bing." 

"Hello,  Margaret,  what's  new?"  he  said,  picking  up, 
in  typical  fashion,  where  he'd  left  off  some  fifteen 
years  before.   He'd  just  dropped  by,  he  said.    And  added, 
"I  wanted  to  see  the  old  neighborhood." 

Sure,  and  Harry  Lillis  Crosby,  Jr. — whose  sentimental 
heart  belies  the  bland  blue  eyes  and  the  casual,  wig- 
wagging left  foot  that  accompanies  him  whenever  he 
sings — had  come  calling  on  the  street  where  he'd  lived. 
Sharp  Avenue,  in  "northside"  Spokane.  .  .  . 

The  leprechauns  had  taken  very  good  care  of  him 
since  that  day  he'd  rattled  down  the  street  in  an  old  wreck 
of  a  Ford  with  Al  Rinker — Hollywood  or  bust!    The 
day  the  neighbors  waved  Kate  Crosby's  son  goodbye 
and    Godspeed — and    speculated   that   he    was    really 
straining  the  luck  of  the  Irish,  if  Bing  thought  that  car 
would  ever  make  it.    It  was  stripped  of  everything — 
except  the  heart  to  get  him  there.  .  .  . 

Yet  all  that  luck  had  been  his.    And  more.    His  was 
the  voice  of  the  people,  and  his  the  Americana  success 


Continued 


Three  of  Washington's  seven  Crosby  boys,  in  1933: 
Bob,  Bing,  and  Everett  (low  man  on  the  totem  pole) 
— who  can't  sing,   but  has  his   Irish  wits  about  him. 


Angelic,  Bing  looked  as  a  Gon- 
zaga  High  School  grad— but 
the  Fathers  had  another  word! 


War  time:  Bing  entertained 
at  Camp  Pendleton  and  found 
brother   Bob   in   the    Marines. 


34 


mm  Spokane 


I 

I 


Here,  on  Sharp  Avenue,  are 
memories  which  will  always  spell 
"home"  for  Bing  and  Bob 


Proud  moment — when  Bob's  mother  and  father  came  visiting 
him  during  rehearsals  of  Bob's  early  radio  show,  Club  15. 


-> 


Now  living  in  the  old  Crosby  home 
in  Spokane,  Mrs.  Margaret  Higgins 
watches  "the  boys"  on  her  TV  set. 


The  Sharp  Avenue  neighborhood  is 
filled  with  Crosby  memories.  Here's 
Bob,   at   2,   with    his   Easter   basket. 


White  now,  the  Crosby  home  was  once 
brown — but  always  bright  with  music 
and  laughter  of  frequent  "clambakes." 


For  the  boys,  Sonzaga  University 
was  favorite  playground  in  runabout 
days,  "alma  mater"  in  later  years. 


"St.  Al's"— St.  Aloysius  Church- 
was  "soul  mother"  for  young  and 
old  of  most  families  in  community. 


For  the  girls,  it  was  Holy  Names 
Academy — with  a  big  orchard  in  back 
which  youthful  Crosbys  often  raided. 


35 


' 


i   : 


Three  of  Washington's  seven  Crosby  boys,  in  1933: 
Bob,  Bing,  and  Everett  (low  man  on  the  totem  pole) 
—who  can't  sing,   but  has  his  Irish  wits  about  him. 


the  Crosby  Claifrom  Spokane 


By  MAXINE  ARNOLD 


The  man  in  the  uninhibited  sport  shirt  got  out  of  his 
convertible  and  looked  up  and  down  Sharp  Avenue, 
casing  the  neighborhood  for  faces  he'd  known. 
He  turned  into  the  walk  of  an  old-fashioned  white  frame 
house,  whistling  while  he  awaited  the  opening  of  a 
door  which  had  opened  for  him  many  times.  .  . 

As  Margaret  Carroll  laughingly  described  it  later,  "I  had 
on  an  old  house  coat.  I  was  down  on  my  knees, 
scrubbing  the  kitchen  floor,  when  the  bell  rang.   I  went 
to  the  door— and  there  stood  Bing." 

"Hello,  Margaret,  what's  new?"  he  said,  picking  up, 
in  typical  fashion,  where  he'd  left  off  some  fifteen 
years  before.   He'd  just  dropped  by,  he  said.   And  added, 
"I  wanted  to  see  the  old  neighborhood." 

Sure,  and  Harry  Lillis  Crosby,  Jr. — whose  sentimental 
heart  belies  the  bland  blue  eyes  and  the  casual,  wig- 
wagging left  foot  that  accompanies  him  whenever  he 
sings — had  come  calling  on  the  street  where  he'd  lived. 
Sharp  Avenue,  in  "northside"  Spokane.  .  .  . 

The  leprechauns  had  taken  very  good  care  of  him 
since  that  day  he'd  rattled  down  the  street  in  an  old  wreck 
of  a  Ford  with  Al  Rinker — Hollywood  or  bust!    The 
day  the  neighbors  waved  Kate  Crosby's  son  goodbye 
and   Godspeed — and   speculated   that   he   was   really 
straining  the  luck  of  the  Irish,  if  Bing  thought  that  car 
would  ever  make  it.   It  was  stripped  of  everything— 
except  the  heart  to  get  him  there.  .  .  . 

Yet  all  that  luck  had  been  his.    And  more.    His  was 
the  voice  of  the  people,  and  his  the  Americana  success 


Here,  on  Sharp  Avenue,  are 
memories  which  will  always  spell 
"home"  for  Bing  and  Bob 


Angelic,  Bing  looked  as  a  Gon- 
zaga  High  School  grad— but 
the  Fathers  had  another  word! 


Proud  moment — when  Bob's  mother  and  father  came  visiting 
him  during  rehearsals  of  Bob's  early  radio  show,  Club  15. 


The  Sharp  Avenue  neighborhood  is 
filled  with  Crosby  memories.  Here's 
Bob,   at  2,   with   his   Easter  basket. 


White  now,  the  Crosby  home  was  once 
brown — but  always  bright  with  music 
and  laughter  of  frequent  "clambakes." 


MM 

i  ] 

f 

Si 

War  time:  Bing  entertoiW 
at  Camp  Pendleton  and  f°ur" 
brother   Bob   in   the   Man«<* 


ror  the  boys,  Gonzaga  University 
was  favorite  playground  in  runabout 
"alma  mater"  in  later  years. 


"St.  Al's" — St.  Aloysius  Church — 
was  "soul  mother"  for  young  and 
old  of  most  families  in  community. 


For  the  girls,  it  was  Holy  Names 
Academy — with  a  big  orchard  in  back 
which  youthful  Crosbys  often  raided. 


35 


the  Crosby  Clan  from  Spokane 


(Continued) 


In  1928,  Sharp  Avenue  was  thrilled  by  news  of  Bing's 
rising  fame,  as  he  toured  with  Whiteman.  Above,  "Rhythm 
Boys"   Al    Rinker   (left),    Bing,   and    Harry   Barris   (right). 


Later,  neighbors  followed  the  success  story  of  Bob's  own 
band.  Gil  Rodin — playing  sax  in  those  days — is  now  pro- 
ducer of  the  Award-winning  Bob  Crosby  Show,  on  CBS-TV. 


Home  in  triumph — sister  Catherine,  Mother,  Dad,  his 
brother  Edward  J.  Crosby  and  brother  Larry  were  there 
as  Bing  received  honorary  degree  from  Sonzaga  in  '46. 


saga  of  all  time.  Many  of  those  along  Sharp  Avenue 
liked  to  think  of  the  Crosbys  as  their  own  neighbor- 
hood Cinderella  story:  "The  way  it  all  happened — 
so  suddenly  .  .  .  and  the  way  they  took  it — 
so  beautifully."  Even  the  skeptics  took  heart  from 
the  fact  that,  however  unlikely,  it  can  happen  here. 

Here — two  doors  down  from  the  Carrolls',  in 
an  old  two-storey  gabled  house  with  a  wide 
front  porch — was  where  the  whole  story  began. 
Here  Bing's  future  was  molded,  man  and  star. 

Here,  too,  was  fostered  the  sense  of  family — 
the  Irish  wit  and  warmth — that  was  to  make  Bob 
Crosby  at  home  in  the  living  room  of  all  the 
millions  who  watch  his  daily  show  on  CBS-TV. 
For  it  was  here,  in  this  large,  old-fashioned  frame 
house,  that  George  Robert  Crosby  made  his  own 
first  "personal  appearance?' 

The  neighbors  all  agreed  Bob  was  a  pretty  baby. 
The  Bradleys'  daughter,  Gladys,  who  lived  next 
door,  thought  him  "the  most  beautiful  baby 
ever  born."   She  was  always  asking  Mrs.  Crosby's 
permission  to  take  him  over  home  with  her.   At 
that  time,  Gladys  Bradley  was  studying  the  violin, 
and — though  Bob  Crosby  was  to  rise  to  fame, 
later  on,  directing  a  Dixieland  band — at  the  age  of 
two  months,  he  used  to  listen  to  her  practicing  on  the 
violin  and  laugh  and  coo. . .  .  (Continued  on  page  86  ) 

The  Bob  Crosby  Show  is  seen  over  CBS-TV,  Monday  through 
Friday,  from  3 :30  to  4  P.M.  EDT,  under  multiple  sponsorship. 


36 


I 


Rehearsals  were  on  the  beach.  Rocky 
Graziano  guested  on  show,  Florence 
Chadwick  kibitzed.  Jerry's  guard  was 
down  as  Rocky  jawed  him  for  splinters. 
Paul  was  alert  for  tips  from  Florence. 


Jerry  didn't  mind  being  the 
low  man  on  this  totem  pole. 


Stone  camel  at  Sahara  Motel  was  fun. 
So  were  Miami's  lady  motorcycle  cops. 


Florida  was  fun,  and  Jerry  Mahoney  had  a  chance  to  meet  the  palm 
branch  of  his  family  tree.  But,  for  Dorothy  and  Paul  Winched,  two  weeks 
was  long  enough  to  be  away  from  their  family — Stacy,  3,  Stephanie,  10. 


mm 


3S 


gal 


■••-.■•■■ 


■■■- 


'■-'-'..  w 


r 


the  Girl  Tommy  Marries 


40 


Can  you  get  a  picture  of  the  future 

Mrs.  Sands— comparing  the  favorite 
dates  of  this  dynamic  young  singer? 


By  EUNICE  FIELD 


A  young  man's  mind — what  a  springtime  world  it  is, 
where   romantic   daydreams   shoot   up   faster   than 
field  flowers!  And  Tommy  Sands,  little  more  than 
nineteen,   is   no   exception.    He,    too,    has    already   done 
quite  a  lot  of  long  wish-thinking  on  the  subject  of  girls, 
romance  and  even  marriage. 

And  why  not?  It's  a  subject  he  hasn't  been  able  to 
avoid  since  he  reached  his  middle  teens  and  played  the 
lead  in  a  high-school  version  (a  very  free  version)  of 
Irving  Berlin's  "Annie  Get  Your  Gun."  In  that  musical 
play,  he  sang  the  well-known  ballad,  "The  Girl  That 
I  Marry."  This  is  a  song  Tommy  has  been  called  upon 
to  sing  many  times  since.  Yet,  when  the  big  question  is 
put  to  him,  he  flashes  the  mischievous  grin  that  has 
captivated  a  coast-to-coast  audience  and  says  crisply, 
"I  love  that  song,  but  only  as  a  song.  The  girl  it  de- 


Betty    Moers,    his    "teen- 
age crush"  in  high  school. 


Lynn     Trosper,     his     first 
true  love — when  he  was  4. 


scribes  is  exactly  the  kind  of  girl  I've  never  dreamed 
of  marrying." 

In  the  wake  of  his  sensational  hit  on  Kraft  Television 
Theater's  "The  Singin'  Idol,"  and  with  his  recording  of 
"Teen  Age  Crush"  hurdling  the  million  mark,  Tommy 
Sands  has  won  the  esteem  of  a  multitude  of  fans  for 
keeping  his  head,  his  balance  and  his  grasp  on  values 
that  few  men  are  able  to  grasp  until  they  are  fully 
matured.  He  shows  this  same  pattern  in  the  sensible  way 
he  tackles  that  most  intimate  of  wish -thoughts  .  .  .  the 
girl,  or  type  of  girl,  that  he  sees  as  his  wife,  helpmate, 
mistress  of  the  hearth  and  home,  and  mother  of  the  chil- 
dren he  hopes  to  have  someday. 

"Listen,"  he  says,  "I  was  reading  about  a  young  actor. 
He  said  he'd  love  to  get  a  girl  like  his  mother.  That's 
great — "  and  now  the  grin  forms  again  and  a  twinkle 

Continued  ±. 


Molly  Bee — of  Tennessee  Ernie  Ford  show — his  date  for 
this  year's  Oscar  presentation  (facing  page).  And  Mrs. 
Grace  Sands  (below),  his  mother — and  all-time  best  gal! 


Wherever  he  goes,  fans  of  both  sexes  mob  Tommy  for  his 
autograph — and  speculate  about  romance.  Below,  the  cam- 
era caught  him  in  New  York  for  The  Steve  Allen  Show. 


the  Girl  Tommy  Marries... 


(Continued) 


Hollywood  party,  junior  style:  Sunlit  lawn  for  setting, 
ice  cream  for  refreshments — and  a  serious  discussion  of 
youthful  problems  for  Molly  Bee,  Kathy  Nolan  and  Tommy. 


Poolside  dancing,  to  a  Sands  recording:  Molly  says, 
"He's  real  cool!"  Tommy  says,  "She's  the  greatest!" 
Judy  Boutin  and   Ken   Fredricks  are  the  other  dancers. 


lights  the  depth  of  his  steady  dark  eyes — "I  love  my 
mother,  too.  I  wouldn't  change  her  for  anything.  She's 
definitely  what  I  want  in  a  mother.  I'm  happy  to  say 
she's  an  original.  I  mean  she's  herself  at  all  times.  And 
there  isn't  a  bit  of  the  fake  or  copycat  in  her  make-up. 
But  that's  just  the  point.  That's  exactly  what  I  want  in 
a  wife.  Above  anything  else,  I  want  to.  see  that  quality 
of  being  herself.  I  feel  uncomfortable  with  girls  who 
mimic  actresses  they  admire,  or  strut  around  like  some 
model  they  saw  on  TV. 

"I  prefer  the  types  who  aren't  afraid  to  make  a  few 
rules  of  their  own.  I  don't  think  I'd  ever  be  happy  with 
a  carbon  copy,  no  matter  how  beautiful  or  attractive  she 
might  be.  How  does  Shakespeare  put  it?  Be  true  to 
yourself  and  then  you  can't  be  false  to  any  man.  .  .  . 
That  pretty  much  sums  it  up  for  me." 

Tommy  may  not  agree  that  "The  Girl  That  I  Marry" 
must  "wear  satins  and  laces,"  but  there  is  one  phrase  in 
Irving  Berlin's  song  which  does  strike  home:  "I'm  a 
sucker  for  perfume,"  Tommy  admits.  "A  gal  'smelling  of 
cologne'  gets  me  all  fussed  up."  But,  he  adds,  "I'm  not 
picky  when  it  comes  to  clothes.  I'd  admire  the  real -life 
Annie  for  wearing  the  clothes  that  suit  her  style.  I  think 
she'd  look  ridiculous  in  satins  and  frills  and  bows.  On 


the  other  hand,  some  girls  look  awful  in  blue  jeans.  To 
me,  the  best-dressed  girl  is  the  one  who  looks  com- 
fortable in  what  she's  wearing — and  that  goes  for 
sweater  and  skirt  or  gown  and  mink  stole. 

"Another  thing,"  he  points  out,  "it's  not  the  color  of 
her  clothes  or  the  fact  that  she's  a  blonde,  redhead  or 
brunette  that  counts  with  me.  I've  walked  down  streets 
where  one  type  or  another  came  by  and,  if  I  liked  a 
particular  girl,  this  is  what  I'd  be  thinking,  Boy,  I  bet 
that  one's  a  real  sweet  date.  It  just  doesn't  occur  to  me 
to  think,  What  a  blonde,  or  What  a  redhead! 

"Sometimes  it's  the  smart,  easy  way  she  carries  herself. 
Sometimes  it's  her  voice,  which  ripples  like  a  guitar. 
Sometimes  it's  the  clothes,  not  because  of  the  cut  or 
color,  but  because  they  go  so  fine  with  the  girl.  I  was 
eating  in  Frascati's  on  Sunset  Boulevard  the  other  day. 
A  woman  in  a  simple  black  dress  came  through  the  door 
and  every  man's  eyes,  including  mine,  jumped  up  to  get 
a  look.   She  was  the  most  striking  woman  in  the  place. 

"A  friend  of  mine,"  he  smiles,  "told  me  he  flips  over 
the  tall,  high-fashion  type.  I  said  to  him,  'But  that's  just 
physical!'  He  jabbed  me  on  the  chin  and  joked,  'What 
else?'  Then  he  went  into  the  details.  She  had  to  have 
such  and  such  measurements,   (Continued  on  page  78) 


Tommy  Sands  and  Molly  Bee  both  sing  on  The  Tennessee  Ernie  Ford  Show,  as  seen  and  heard  over  NBC-TV,  M-F,  from  2:30  to  3  P.M.  EDT. 


42 


Parlor  tricks,  garden  variety:  Below,  Tommy  shows  Molly  he's  a 
balanced  young  man.  Left  to  right,  in  background:  Joe  Maggio, 
Kathy,  Judy  Nichols,  Ken  Miller,  Ken  Fredricks  and  Judy  Boutin. 


Ice  cream  for  "Cindy,"  who  really  laps  it  up! 
Then,  clean-up  time  for  Molly  and  Tommy — "just 
good  friends" — after  the  other  guests  have  gone. 


the  Girl  Tommy  Marries. 

(Continued) 


Hollywood  party,  junior  style:  Sunlit  lawn  for  setting, 
ice  cream  for  refreshments — and  a  serious  discussion  of 
youthful  problems  for  Molly  Bee,  Kathy  Nolan  and  Tommy. 


lights  the  depth  of  his  steady  dark  eyes — "I  love  my 
mother,  too.  I  wouldn't  change  her  for  anything.  She's 
definitely  what  I  want  in  a  mother.  I'm  happy  to  say 
she's  an  original.  I  mean  she's  herself  at  all  times.  And 
there  isn't  a  bit  of  the  fake  or  copycat  in  her  make-up. 
But  that's  just  the  point.  That's  exactly  what  I  want  in 
a  wife.  Above  anything  else,  I  want  to  see  that  quality 
of  being  herself.  I  feel  uncomfortable  with  girls  who 
mimic  actresses  they  admire,  or  strut  around  like  some 
model  they  saw  on  TV. 

"I  prefer  the  types  who  aren't  afraid  to  make  a  few 
rules  of  their  own.  I  don't  think  I'd  ever  be  happy  with 
a  carbon  copy,  no  matter  how  beautiful  or  attractive  she 
might  be.  How  does  Shakespeare  put  it?  Be  true  to 
yourself  and  then  you  can't  be  false  to  any  man. 
That  pretty  much  sums  it  up  for  me." 

Tommy  may  not  agree  that  "The  Girl  That  I  Marry" 
must  "wear  satins  and  laces,"  but  there  is  one  phrase  in 
Irving  Berlin's  song  which  does  strike  home  "I'm  a 
sucker  for  perfume,"  Tommy  admits.  "A  gal  'smelling  of 
cologne'  gets  me  all  fussed  up."  But,  he  adds  "I'm  not 
picky  when  it  comes  to  clothes.  I'd  admire  the  real-life 
Annie  for  wearing  the  clothes  that  suit  her  style.  I  think 
she'd  look  ridiculous  in  satins  and  frills  and  bows    On 


Tommy  Sands  and  Molly  Bee  both  sing  on  The  Tennessee  Ernie  Ford 


42 


Poolside  dancing,  to  a  Sands  recording:  Molly  says, 
"He's  real  cool!"  Tommy  says,  "She's  the  greatest!" 
Judy  Boutin  and  Ken   Fredricks  are  the  other  dancers. 


the  other  hand,  some  girls  look  awful  in  blue  jeans.  To 
me,  the  best-dressed  girl  is  the  one  who  looks  com- 
fortable in  what  she's  wearing— and  that  goes  for 
sweater  and  skirt  or  gown  and  mink  stole. 

Another  thing,"  he  points  out,  "it's  not  the  color  of 
her  clothes  or  the  fact  that  she's  a  blonde,  redhead  or 
brunette  that  counts  with  me.  I've  walked  down  streets 
where  one  type  or  another  came  by  and,  if  I  liked  a 
particular  girl,  this  is  what  I'd  be  thinking,  Boy,  I  bet 
that  one's  a  real  sweet  date.  It  just  doesn't  occur  to  roe 
totoink,  What  a  blonde,  or  What  a  redhead!  . 

Sometimes  it's  the  smart,  easy  way  she  carries  herself. 
Sometimes  it's  her  voice,  which  ripples  like  a  guitar- 
Sometimes  it's  the  clothes,  not  because  of  the  cut  or 
color,  but  because  they  go  so  fine  with  the  girl.  I  ?<* 
eating  in  Frascati's  on  Sunset  Boulevard  the  other  day. 
A  woman  in  a  simple  black  dress  came  through  the  door 
and  every  man's  eyes,  including  mine,  jumped  up  to  get 
a  look.  She  was  the  most  striking  woman  in  the  place' 
t,  7  ,f,rle"d  °f  mine."  he  smiles,  "told  me  he  flips  over 
the  tall  high-fashion  type.  I  said  to  him,  -But  that's  jorf 
fet  He  jabbed  me  on  the  chin  arid  joked,  'Wna* 
!,,!  J h"  ¥  went  mt°  Ae  details.  She  had  to  have 
such  and  such  measurements.  (Continued  on  page  "*' 

Show,  as  seen  and  heard  over  NBC-TV,  M-F,  from  2:30  to  3  P 


FAMILIES  are  FUN 

For  Bud  Collyer,  that  includes  his  contestants  on  Beat  The  Clock 
and  To  Tell  The  Truth,  as  well  as  his  wife  and  youngsters  at  home 


Their  home  has  the  deepest  of  meanings  for  Bud  and  Marian  Collyer. 
For  them,  it's  filled  with  memories  of  children  growing  up  .  .  .  and  the 
menagerie  which  happy  children  gather  around  them  as  they  grow — 
pets  from  poodles  to  parakeets,  from  alley  cats  to  crested  canaries! 


By  MARY  TEMPLE 


After  years  of  asking  questions  and 
posing  problems  on  a  variety  of 
TV  and  radio  audience-participation 
programs  (presently,  To  Tell  The  Truth 
and  Beat  The  Clock,  over  CBS-TV), 
Bud  Collyer  still  thinks  people  are  ex- 
citing, interesting,  wonderful.  Good 
winners,  and  just  as  good  losers.  Will- 
ing to  try  their  hardest  in  competition, 
but  able  to  laugh  at  themselves  and 
their  failures.  Rich  in  their  sense  of 
fun  and  capacity  for  enjoyment. 

It  is  this  sense  of  fun,  this  enjoy- 
ment of  things,  (Continued  on  page  80) 

Bud  Collyer  emcees  Beat  The  Clock,  CBS-TV, 
Fri.,  7:30  P.M.  EDT,  for  Hazel  Bishop,  Inc. 
—and  To  Tell  The  Truth,  CBS-TV,  Tues.,  9 
P.M.  EDT,  for  Pharmaceuticals,  Inc.  (Geritol) 


With  Marian  at  the  piano,  and  choir- 
singer  Cynthia  stifling  a  giggle,  Bud 
teaches  Mike  to  play  both  guitar  and 
banjo  as  relaxation  from  mathematics. 


44 


To  the  Collyers,  "teenagers"  are  really  "young  adults" — Mike,  Cynthia  and  Pat  prove  they  are  right. 
Pat's  a  gifted  pianist,  but  concentrates  primarily  on  getting  a  well-rounded  education  at  college  .  .  . 
Cynthia  plans  on  special  art  training,  after  finishing  high  school  .  .  .  Mike's  young  heart  is  already  set 
on  a  career  in  aero-dynamics.    They  can  always  count  on  warm  encouragement  from  Bud  and  Marian. 


r^x 


Mr.  and  Mrs.  is  the  name:  Rosemary  and  Jack  Merrell  wed  just  four 
weeks  after  they  met — "My  family  thought  he  was  wonderful. So  did  I!" 


Rosemary  Rice's  personality  blends  many  lives  .  .  . 

as  actress  ...  as  physician's  daughter,  in 

Young  Dr.  Malone  .  .  .  and  as  Jack  MerrelPs  bride 


By  FRANCES  KISH 


A  blue-eyed  blonde  with  honey-smooth 
hair — and  a  glowing  "brunette"  kind 
of  personality — is  a  happy  young  New 
Jersey  housewife  who  loves  her  home, 
loves  to  keep  it  polished  up,  loves  to  cook. 
She  is  also  an  eighteen-year-old  named 
Jill,  daughter  of  Young  Dr.  Malone,  the 
beloved  physician.  For  years,  too,  she  has 
been  Mama's  elder  daughter,  Katrin,  now 
grown  up  to  an  early  widowhood. 

This  business  of  being  three  people 
hasn't  been  one  bit  upsetting  to  Rose- 
mary, but  interesting — and  fun.  She's,  en- 
joyed being  all  three.  As  Jill,  that  modem 
miss,  she  was  at  one  time  rebellious  and 

Continued         w 


Homemaking — every  waking  minute.  "Rosie" 
waters  plants  as  Jack  reads  before  bedtime. 


46 


wtkaJatftiam 


>.-/  ..^  > . 


Welcome!  "I  love  our  house  so  much  that  I  make  a  tour  every  morning  before  I  leave,"  Rosemary  admits. 

She  plays  drama,  Jack  plays  golf.   He  hasn't  tackled  the  air-  The  old-timers  had  a  wheel  for  it,  but  a  modern  housewife 

waves,  but  she'd  like  to  keep  up  with  him  on  the  fairways.  still  finds  a  husband's  strong  arms  handy  for  winding  yarn. 


■I 


Rosemary  claims  she's  "only  a 
fair  musician,"  but  her  accor- 
dion proudly  bears  her  name — 
and  Jack  gave  her  the  elegant 
baby  grand  as  a  birthday  gift. 


(Continued) 


at  odds  with  Dr.  Malone's  second  wife,  Tracey,  but  now 
a  warm  understanding  and  friendship  exists  between 
them.  As  Katrin,  she  had  a  happy  childhood  in  San 
Francisco,  married,  and  lost  her  husband  during  World 
War  I — the  time  period  recently  covered  in  Mama. 

As  Rosemary  Rice  Merrell — married  to  management 
consultant  Jack  Merrell  since  July  3,  1954— she  is  the  sum 
of  these  two  other  personalities  added  to  her  own.  Young 
and  gay  and  enthusiastic,  like  Jill.  Gentle,  sympathetic, 
and  mature  beyond  her  years,  like  Katrin.  Honest,  di- 
rect, frank,  poised.  In  short,  the  sum  of  all  the  things 
that  life  has  taught  Rosemary  Rice. 

"Rosie,"  as  everyone  now  calls  her  (though  her  family 
called  her  "Roses"  and  she  likes  that  better,  if  there  must 
be  a  nickname),  can  thank  her  acting  career  for  bringing 
romance  and  love  into  her  life.  An  old  school  friend  and 
her  husband  have  always  been  enthusiastic  fans  of  Rose- 


mary's, listening  and  watching  whenever  they  could. 
The  husband  kept  saying  that  he  knew  someone  who 
would  like  Rosemary — and  whom  he  was  sure  Rosemary 
would  like — but  he  hadn't  seen  the  man  for  a  while  and 
maybe  he'd  married  in  the  meantime.  Rosemary  didn't 
think  much  about  the  whole  thing,  anyhow.  She  had  a 
lot  of  beaus,  and  no  one  had  ever  "arranged"  anything 
for  her  that  had  turned  out  to  be  romance.  So  she 
laughed  it  off. 

One  day,  the  friends  asked  Rosemary  for  dinner  at 
the  country  club  and  also  invited  the  man — who  was  not 
married,  had  never  particularly  noticed  Rosie  on  tele- 
vision or  listened  to  her  on  radio,  but  now  decided  he 
must  have  been  missing  something  rather  special.  "Jack 
doesn't  like  me  to  tell  this,  because  it  might  sound  a 
little  foolish,"  Rosemary  confesses,  "but  we  both  fell  in 
love  that  fast  and  were  married  (Continued  on  page  70) 


48 


Rosemary  Rice  is  Jill  Malone  in  Young  Dr.  Malone.  heard  on  CBS  Radio,  Monday  through  Friday,  1 :30  P.M.  EDT,  under  multiple  sponsorship. 


Above,  at  the  snack  bar,  Rosemary  fills  the 
"orders"  of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Robert  T.  Whelan, 
little  Carol  Pfister  and  Linda  Whelan.  Rosie 
and  Jack  built  three  "fun  rooms"  in  basement. 


Ping-pong  club  meets  downstairs,  too,  as  the  Merrells  take  on  the  Whelans 
for  a  game,  with  Barbara  Ann  Whelan  as  referee.  There's  a  third  basement 
room  for  barbecues,  but  in  fine  weather  they  prefer  eating  outdoors — left 
to  right,  Cal  Wenke,  Barbara  Ann,  the  Whelans,  the  Merrells,  and  Linda. 


Above,  at  the  snack  bar,  Rosemary  fills  the 
"orders"  of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Robert  T.  Whelan, 
ittle  Carol  Pfister  and  Linda  Whelan.  Rosie 
and  Jack  built  three  "fun  rooms"  in  basement. 


Ping-pong  club  meets  downstairs,  too,  as  the  Merrells  take  on  the  Whelans 
for  a  game,  with  Barbara  Ann  Whelan  as  referee.  There's  a  third  basement 
room  for  barbecues,  but  in  fine  weather  they  prefer  eating  outdoors — left 
to  right,  Cal  Wenke,  Barbara  Ann,  the  Whelans,  the  Merrells,  and  Linda. 


(Continued) 


at  odds  with  Dr.  Malone's  second  wife,  Tracey,  but  now 
a  warm  understanding  and  friendship  exists  between 
them.  As  Katrin,  she  had  a  happy  childhood  in  San 
Francisco,  married,  and  lost  her  husband  during  World 
War  I — the  time  period  recently  covered  in  Mama. 

As  Rosemary  Rice  Merrell — married  to  management 
consultant  Jack  Merrell  since  July  3,  1954— she  is  the  sum 
of  these  two  other  personalities  added  to  her  own.  Young 
and  gay  and  enthusiastic,  like  Jill.  Gentle,  sympathetic, 
and  mature  beyond  her  years,  like  Katrin.  Honest,  di- 
rect, frank,  poised.  In  short,  the  sum  of  all  the  things 
that  life  has  taught  Rosemary  Rice. 

"Rosie,"  as  everyone  now  calls  her  (though  her  family 
called  her  "Roses"  and  she  likes  that  better,  if  there  must 
be  a  nickname),  can  thank  her  acting  career  for  bringing 
romance  and  love  into  her  life.  An  old  school  friend  and 
her  husband  have  always  been  enthusiastic  fans  of  Rose- 


mary's, listening  and  watching  whenever  they  could. 
The  husband  kept  saying  that  he  knew  someone  who 
would  like  Rosemary — and  whom  he  was  sure  Rosemary 
would  like— but  he  hadn't  seen  the  man  for  a  while  and 
maybe  he'd  married  in  the  meantime.  Rosemary  didnt 
think  much  about  the  whole  thing,  anyhow.  She  had  a 
lot  of  beaus,  and  no  one  had  ever  "arranged"  anything 
for  her  that  had  turned  out  to  be  romance.  So  she 
laughed  it  off. 

One  day,  the  friends  asked  Rosemary  for  dinner  at 
the  country  club  and  also  invited  the  man— who  was  not 
married,  had  never  particularly  noticed  Rosie  on  tele- 
vision or  listened  to  her  on  radio,  but  now  decided  be 
must  have  been  missing  something  rather  special.  "JacK 
doesn't  like  me  to  tell  this,  because  it  might  sound  a 
ittle  foolish,"  Rosemary  confesses,  "but  we  both  fell* 
love  that  fast  and  were  married  (Continued  on  po9e  70' 


48 


Rosemary  Rice  is  Jill  Malone  in  Youne  Dr.  Malone  \\pnrA  ™  pr«  d  j-      \x  .  ,  ■„ 

g  "lone,  heard  on  CBS  Rad.o,  Monday  through  Friday,  1 :30  P.M.  EDT,  under  multiple  sponsorship 


X 


HI  LI-BILLY  HERO 


OfF-beat  role  in  "A  Face  in  the 
Crowd"  finds  Andy  in  jail — where 
Patricia    Neal   discovers   his  talent. 


Pat,  a  roving  radio  reporter, 
gives  Andy  a  boost  toward  fame 
— and  a  power  which  he  misuses. 


Fun  between  takes — for  Jeff  Best 
(with  the  guitar),  Harry  Stradling, 
director  Elia  Kazan,  Andy  and  Pat. 


Andy  Griffith  can  never  be  just  "a 
face  in  the  crowd."  It's  right  on 
the   records   that   everyone's   got   time 
for  Andy,  his  songs  and  his  sayings 

By  FREDDA  BALLING 


At  first  sight,  Andy  Griffith  would  appear  to  be  con- 
i  stituted  like  a  good  gelatine  dessert — all  one  color 
and  clear.  Investigation,  however,  will  disclose  that  his 
personality  pattern  is  one  of  shades  and  shadows,  that 
his  flavor  is  various,  and  that  contradiction  is  probably 
his  most  obvious  component. 

He  looks  like  an  ex-blocking  back,  yet  he  has  never 
played  football — though  he  did  try  basketball,  without 
inspiring  the  rules  committee  to  raise  the  hoop  or  di- 
minish its  circumference.  .  .  .  He  (Continued  on  page  68) 


50 


Now  it's  the  Hollywood  Hills  for 
Andy  and  his  Barbara — the  "Bob- 
by" whose  name  once  confused  him! 


Sea  dream:  "Always  wanted  a 
boat,"  says  Andy.  "Finally,  got 
one — an   eighteen-foot   dinghy." 


Above,  Barbara  and  Andy  at  home. 
Facing  page,  Barbara  visits  Andy 
and  Pat  Neal  on  Warner  Bros.  lot. 


I 


■HHHHMMHHMM| 


YEARS  WITH  JERRY 


\ 


^S^-' 


Lucky,  heart-filling  years  !• — 
though  being  married  to  a  comedian 
isn't  always  a  laughing  matter 


Joining  Jerry  on  tour,  I  try  to  make  a  home  for  him, 
whether  in  backstage  dressing  rooms  or  hotels.  On  the 
recent  New  York  stay,  we  even  had  baby  Scotty  with  us. 


Playing  the  Palace,  Jerry  was  right  with  his  audience — they  loved  him!  But  cooling  off  after  was  more  of  a  problem. 


By  PATTI  LEWIS 

Next  October,  Jerry  and  I  will  have  been  married 
thirteen  years.    There  have  been  times,  I'll 
admit,  when  it  has  seemed  much,  much  longer 
than  a  mere  baker's  dozen.    But  most  of  the  time, 
when  I  think  back,  my  reaction  is,  "Could  it  have  been 
only  thirteen  years  ago?"    When  you're  happy, 
time  goes  fast. 

But,   having  been   happy   during   those   thirteen 
years  doesn't  mean  I've  led  a  tranquil,  peaceful,  well- 
ordered  existence.    Far  from  it.    In  fact,  most  of  the 
time  it's  been  pretty  frantic.    But  happy-frantic 
and  funny-frantic,  and  only  rarely,  now  and  then, 
hes  it  been  sad-frantic  or  mad-frantic. 

There  have  been  times,  for  instance,  when  I've  been 
up  in  the  air.   Quite  literally,  that  is.   I've  logged 
more  flying  time  than  Jerry  has,  in  the  last  thirteen 
years.    There  are  moments  now  and  then,  after  I 
get  on  a)  plane,  when  I  have  to  stop  and  think 
whether^ Tm  headed  for  New  (Continued  on  page  76) 


The  Jerry  Lewis  Show,  seen  on  NBC-TV,  Saturday,  June  8,  from  9 
to  10  P.M.  EDT,  is  being  telecast  in  color  and  black-and-white. 


At  New  York's  Essex  House,  we  had  an  apartment  with  a 
tiny  kitchen.  Jerry  had  his  favorite  after-show  snacks— 
and  Scofty  had  his  favorite  toys  with  him  (below,  right). 


Back  in  the  Pacific  Palisades,  we  can  relax  and  Behave 
Like  People.  Our  boys,  left  to  right,  are  Gary — who  looks 
so  much  like  Jerry;  Ronnie-the  "brain";  Scotty-the  baby. 


»m 


r 


r 


md 


British  tour  began  in  London's  Dominion  Theater,  as  3,000  fans  shouted:  "We 
want  Bill!" — and  then  the  curtain  rose  on  Haley,  his  guitar,  and  His  Comets. 


William  Haley  and  Mrs.  Haley — as  listed 
by  dignified  Cunard  Line — looked  forward 
to  a  sunny  though  brief  vacation  on  board 
the   Queen  Elisabeth,   sailing   for   England. 


fti  ROCK  ROUS 


It  was  three  cheers  and  a  skyrocket 

for  Bill  Haley  and  His  Comets 

as  they  spread  the  happy  beat  abroad 

By  HELEN  BOLSTAD 


Australians   exclaimed,    "Fantabulous!"    A   London   news- 
i  paper  bannered,  "All  Haley  Let  Loose!"  It  was  fun  to  watch 
the  young  people  of  the  world  prove  the  prophets  of  doom  all 
wrong.  When  rock  'n'  roll  first  burst  on  the  scene  as  the  freshest — 
and    most    controversial — music    in    thirty-five    years,    these 
prophets  thundered  that  it  was  the  drum-beat  of  delinquency. 
None  of  them  foresaw  that,  this  year,  it  would  turn  into  one  of 
America's  most  potent  goodwill-builders — a  means  of  communi- 
cation and  a  bond  of  unity  between  teenagers  of  many  lands. 

Suitably,  the  first  to  carry  it  abroad  were  Bill  Haley  and  His 
Comets,  the  little  crew  from  Chester,  Pennsylvania,  who  had 
also  been  the  first  to  define  the  happy  big  beat  in  the  United 
States.  During  the  first  seventy-two  days  of  1957,  they  whizzed 
across  42,638  miles.   They  were  on  three  (Continued  on  page  82) 


54 


I 


mf.Tt  * 


V.     ft 


v 


Nature's  own  typhoons  and  earthquakes  couldn't  top  The  Comets'  welcome  at 
the  dock  in  Southampton  (above)  or  on  special  train  to  London  (below,   left). 


WUNB  the  WO  RIO 


Above,  at  London's  Waterloo  Station, 
Sylvia  Wakefield,  17,  and  Diane  Thompson, 
15,  proudly  displayed  hand-lettered  jeans 
they'd    spent    all    the    night    e.mbroidering. 


55 


MM^^^ 


i<J2Sj 

(FYS 


British  tour  began  in  London's  Dominion  Theater,  as  3,000  fans  shouted:  "We 
want  Bill!" — and  then  the  curtain  rose  on  Haley,  his  guitar,  and  His  Comets. 


iPF^fcV 


|$?fiW 


Nature's  own  typhoons  and  earthquakes  couldn't  top  The  Comets'  welcome  at 
the  dock  in  Southampton  (above)  or  on  special  train  to  London  (below,  left). 


William  Haley  and  Mrs.  Haley — as  listed 
by  dignified  Cunard  Line — looked  forward 
to  a  sunny  though  brief  vacation  on  board 
the   Queen   Elizabeth,   sailing   for  England. 


54 


fie  ROM  ROM 


It  was  three  cheers  and  a  skyrocket 

for  Bill  Haley  and  His  Comets 

as  they  spread  the  happy  beat  abroad 

By  HELEN  BOLSTAD 

Australians   exclaimed,   "Fantabulous!"   A   London  news- 
r\  paper  bannered,  "All  Haley  Let  Loose!"  It  was  fun  to  watch 

wrn ™U™fe0ple,°*  ^he  world  Prove  the  prophets  of  doom  all 
wrong.  When  rock  V  roll  first  burst  on  the  scene  as  the  freshest- 
r^n^T*    .ue0",tr0Vfr^al-music    *"    thirty-five    years,    these 
NonP  oM^Unf ered  th^  lt  was  the  drum-beat  of  delinquency. 
Arnlriol'.  T  !°re?W  *at'  ihis  year-  it  would  turn  into  one  of. 
clunn  »^      k    PJ°te,nt  g0°dwill-builders-a  means  of  communi- 

SuLw„   tv,^  ?£  Unity  b^ween  teenagers  of  many  lands. 
Cometf  fL  rt,firSt  t0  ?""  H  abroad  were  Bil1  Haley  andJH'S 
abbl    k^t  tc?wJfr5,m  Chester,  Pennsylvania,  who  had 
States  S,rwflrStfit0.define  the  happy  big  beat  in  the  United 
across '^8gmhe  fi"t  seventy-two  days  of  1957,  they  whizzed 
across  42,638  rmles.  They  were  on  three  (Continued  on  page  82) 


WW  the  WORM 


Above,  at  London's  Waterloo  Station, 
Sylvia  Wakefield,  17,  and  Diane  Thompson. 
15,  proudly  displayed  hand-lettered  jeans 
they'd    spent    all    the    night    embroidering. 


55 


When  she  believes  in  you,  you  kinda  start  believing  in  yourself 

It  isn't  just  that  Ma  understands,  even  when  you  don't  say  right  out  what's 
troubling  you.  She  helps  too.  Not  by  telling  you  what  to  do.  More  by  see- 
ing the  good  in  you  when  you  can  hardly  see  it  yourself.  Like  Esther  Hunter 
said  to  Fay  the  other  day,  "Why,  when  Ma  believes  in  you,  you  kinda 
start  believing  in  yourself."  Everybody  in  town  feels  that  way  about  Ma 
Perkins.  You  would  too  if  you  met  her.  And  you  can  meet  her.  You  can 
get  the  whole  story  — even  while  you  work  — when  you  listen  to  day- 
time radio.  Hear  MA  PERKINS  on  the  CBS  RADIO  NETWORK. 

Monday  through  Friday.  See  your  local  paper  for  station  and  time. 


Special  beachtime  good- 
grooming  rules  protect  Toni 
Campbell's  young  beauty 
through  a  month  of  sun-days 

By  HARRIET  SEGMAN 


Toni  Campbell,  not  yet  13,  who  decorates 
the  summer  scene  above,  is  better  known  in 
the  demure  costume  she  wears  at  right,  as 
Mama's  beloved  younger  daughter,   Dagmar. 


Under  the  Sun 


B 


Between  Sunbonnet  Sue,  who  never  shows  the 
sun  her  face,  and  Lila  Lobstertint,  who  doesn't 
know  when  to  come  in  out  of  those  burning  rays, 
there's  a  happy  medium  in  under-the-sun  beauty 
care.  TV  actress  Toni  Campbell,  who's  as  smart  as 
she's  pretty,  makes  the  bright  summer  air  a  friend 
of  her  good  looks.  The  first  essential  for  Toni's 
young  skin,  as  for  any  skin-under-the-sun,  is  an 
invisible  parasol — a  suntan  lotion  or  cream  to 
slather  on  before  sunning  and  re-apply  every  two 
hours  and  after  each  swim,  with  special  care  at 
ankles,  knees,  thighs,  shoulders,  nose,  forehead. 
Long  sun-sessions  dry  even  well-protected  skin,  so 
Toni  times  her  sunbaths,  then  moves  into  the  shade, 
or  creates  her  own  oasis  under  a  big  hat  and  long- 
sleeved  shirt.  Before  sunning,  she  massages  hair 
cream  into  scalp  and  hair,  treats  nails  and  cuticle 


of  fingers  and  toes  with  nail  oil,  pats  cream  around 
her  eyes  to  prevent  "crinkles."  Sunglasses,  part  of 
her  program,  belong  in  every  bag  of  summer  tricks 
- — have  lenses  ground  to  prescription  if  your  own 
sight  keeps  you  from  spotting  a  tall,  bronzed  life- 
guard at  twenty  paces.  Toni  wears  soft,  non-drying 
lipstick  and  light  pink  polish,  uses  hair-spray  for 
neatness.  In  her  sun-kit  she  carries  skin  lotion, 
cotton  balls,  and  fresh-scented  spray  cologne.  She 
shampoos  hair  as  soon  as  possible  after  swimming, 
to  remove  salt  and  chlorine,  restores  luster  with 
creme  rinse  or  hairdressings,  quick-sets  with  hair- 
spray.  Toni's  careful  of  her  posture,  too,  and  her  tips 
can  help  every  girl  who  owns  a  bathing  suit — tuck 
your  sitting-spot  'way  under,  pull  tummy  in  flat, 
don't  collapse  on  your  hips.  Sit  up,  not  down,  like 
the  lady  you  are  and  the  sun-beauty  you  can  be. 


57 


DEEJAY  ON 
THE  KEYS 


It  takes  such  lovely  stars  as  Lu  Ann  Simms  and  Peggy 
King  to  lure  Sandy  away  from  "Simo,"  his  talking  piano. 


Sandy  answered  a  record  request  from  Eleanor.  Now, 
he's  speech  teacher  to  Po  Po — and  kitchen  apprentice. 


58 


Sandy  Singer,  WTCN's  piano  and  platter 
man,  answered  a  very  special  request 


Talk  and  a  turntable  are  standard  equipment  for  a 
deejay.     To    this,    Sandy    Singer    adds    eighty-eight 
keys  and  bills  himself  as  "the  Northwest's  only  piano- 
playing  disc  jockey."  The  Sandy  Singer  Show  is  heard 
on  Station  WTCN  in  Minneapolis-St.  Paul  each 
weekday  from  noon  to  12:30,  from  2  to  5  P.M.  and  from 
6:15  to  7  P.M.  It's  back  again  on  Saturday  from 
8  A.M.  to  noon  and  may  soon  be  visible  on  WTCN-TV. 
Between  the  platters  and  the  patter,  Sandy  wandei-s 
over  to  his  ever-ready  Steinway  to  introduce  records 
with  a  flourish  of  the  keys  or,  sometimes,  to  play  right 
along  with  them.   Or  Sandy  may  join  in  with  a  chorus 
on  the  organ  as  well.    On  records,  the  music  multiplies 
and  Sandy  has  produced  discs  with  up  to  six  pianos, 
a  la  Les  Paul.  ...  "I  never  tire  of  the  letters  and 
phone  calls  and  requests,"  says  Sandy.    "I  love  my  job 
and   everything   about   it."    Actually,    Sandy   pays 
perhaps  more  attention  to  requests  than  most  deejays — 
and  well  he  might.    While  launching  his  deejay 
career  on  a  Peoria  station,  he  met  Eleanor  Drazin 
at  a  party.    Three  days  later,  Sandy  received 
a  letter  from  her  asking  him  to  play  the  record,  "I 
Want  To  Be  Loved."  Taking  the  request  literally,  Sandy 
phoned  for  a  date,  and  the  duo  of  music  lovers  have 
been  happily  married  now  for  six  years.  .  .  .  From 
Peoria,  Sandy  went  to  Augusta,  Georgia,  where  he 
served  both  Uncle  Sam  and  the  listeners  to  Station 
WBBQ.   Thence  to  KCRG  in  Cedar  Rapids  and,  in  1956, 
to   WTCN.    Sandy   and   Eleanor   share   a   modern 
apartment  in  South  Minneapolis,  near  Lake  Calhoun, 
with  Po  Po,  a  parakeet  they've  trained  to  recite 
the  station  call  letters.  Tickings  and  chimings  come  from 
the    many    unusual    clocks    the    Singers    are    collecting 
for  that  future  home-of-their-own.    Bowling, 
swimming,  golf,  horseback  riding  and  flying  are  Sandy's 
hobbies.  But  Eleanor  refuses  to  fly  with  him  until 
she  learns  how  herself,  because,  as  Sandy  explains, 
"she  wants  to  be  a  back-seat  flyer."  ...  If  Sandy  ever 
decides  to  fly  home,  it'll  be  to  Chicago,  where  his 
mother  was  a  vocalist  for  CBS  and  where  Sandy  began 
his  piano  lessons  at  age  five.    A  year  later, 
he'd  narrowed  his  choice  for  the  future  down  to  either 
doctoring  or  radio.  By  the  time  he  was  eleven,  radio 
had  won  out  and  Sandy  was  a  pro  on  radio  and  TV. 
He's  been  music  to  Midwestern  ears  ever  since. 


THE  PERSONAL  TOUCH 


Moe  Milliken's  easygoing  approach  as 
weatherman  or  talent  emcee  turns 
KHOL  and  KHPL  viewers  into  friends 


present 

WEATHER 

JtW-A 


Before  he  becomes  evening  weatherman,   he's  Cousin  Moe. 
With  Uncle  Jerry,  he  meets  junior  talent  on  Little  Rascals. 


Moe's  workday  starts  after  lunch  with  Jean,  Stevie  and  Larry. 
But  an  evening  schedule  means  a  late-hour  finish  for  Moe,  too. 


The  open  secret  to  success  in  television  is  to  remember 
that  you're  a  guest  in  somebody's  living  room — and 
not  a  speaker  from  the  rostrum  at  Madison  Square  Gar- 
den. It's  a  "secret"  nobody  ever  had  to  whisper  to 
Marlyn  "Moe"  Milliken.  He  knew  it  instinctively  and 
practices  it  for  two  television  areas,  that  of  KHOL-TV  in 
Kearney,  Nebraska,  and  its  "satellite,"  KHPL-TV  in 
Hayes  Center.  Though  he  speaks  to  thousands  of  people 
each  day,  Moe's  is  a  relaxed  and  genial  intimacy  of 
talking  to  a  gathering  of  just  a  few  friends.  .  .  .  Heard 
each  evening  at  6  and  10  as  weatherman  for  Channels  6 
and  13,  he  is  constantly  bombarded  with  the  request, 
"When  you  gonna  get  us  some  rain,  Moe?"  But,  drought 
or  deluge,  his  viewers  prove  their  loyalty  each  year  in 
the  annual  Labor  Day  weather-guessing  contest.  Last 
fall,  6,323  viewers  competed.  Sunday  evenings  at  8:30, 
Moe  is  at  the  helm  of  Talent  Show,  with  five  contestants 
competing  for  prizes  and  for  the  eventual  six-week  finals 
and  elimination  programs.  Each  weekday  evening  at  5, 
he  becomes  Cousin  Moe  and  joins  Uncle  Jerry  Granger 
in  cavorting  with  puppets  Ozzie,  Mr.  Scratch  and  Hoiman 
the  hippopotamus  on  Little  Rascals.  Add  to  this  his  chores 


as  production  manager  of  KHOL-TV  and  here  is  a  busy 
man,  indeed,  carrying  a  lot  of  responsibility  for  someone 
who's  just  twenty-five  years  old.  .  .  .  Growing  up  in 
Naponee,  a  small  community  within  the  KHOL-TV  area, 
he  acquired  his  present  nickname  of  Moe  while  in  high 
school — but  he's  not  saying  how.  Still,  it  stuck  with  him 
through  the  University  of  Nebraska  and  Kearney  State 
Teachers  College,  where  the  program  director  of  KGFW 
spotted  Moe  in  a  radio  speech  class  and  launched  him 
on  a  broadcasting  career.  .  .  .  Moe  and  his  wife  Jean  met 
while  both  were  at  college.  Friends  say  their  sons  look 
like  Moe,  but  he  insists  that  Larry,  3,  and  Stevie,  2,  take 
after  their  mother.  Moe  and  the  boys  are  "outdoor  men," 
and,  on  Moe's  days  off,  they  like  to  take  camping  trips. 
Moe  couldn't  be  happier  at  Larry's  early  choice  of  a 
career  as  a  football  and  basketball  player.  Stevie,  who 
hasn't  yet  made  up  his  mind  about  the  future,  was  born 
shortly  after  Moe  joined  KHOL-TV.  Even  after  so  brief 
a  time,  viewers  celebrated  the  event  with  1,500  letters  and 
gifts,  including  a  number  of  pink,  baby-girl  items.  Asked 
about  these  unused  feminine  garments,  Moe  just  grins 
and  says  "We're  saving  them  for  possible  future  use." 


5fl 


THE  RECORD  PLAYERS 


Each  month,  four  of  your  favorite 
disc  jockeys  alternate  this  space  with 
views  and  interviews.  This  spin  around, 
it's  Josh  Brady  of  WBBM  in  Chicago 


This    singing    Cinderella,    Cathy 
Carr,   lives  in  an   "Ivory  Tower." 


NO  F>UIVIF>KJNS, 


By  JOSH  BRADY 


It  was  one  of  those  April  days  when  a 
guy  longed  for  a  little  conversation, 
and  I  guess  we  all  have  our  favorite 
haunts  where  we  can  count  on  running 
into  a  good  listener,  if  nothing  else. 
Anyhow,  this  particular  day,  the  roof 
fell  in. 

I'm  about  halfway  through  my  second 
cup  of  coffee  when  I  am  joined  by  the 
writing  team  of  Jack  Fulton  and  Lois 
Steel,  composers  of  such  gems  as 
"Until,"  "If  You  Were  But  a  Dream," 
"Wanted"  and  "Ivory  Tower."  After 
inquiring  why  they  look  a  little  tired, 
I  ask  when  they  are  coming  up  with 
another  hit.  I  get  an  immediate  answer 
to  both  questions  in  one  breath.  Up 
late  last  night  with  Cathy  Carr,  discing 
their  latest  composing  effort  "Speak  for 
Yourself,  John"  .  .  .  And  they  are  quick 
to  add  that  it  looks  like  another  "Ivory 
Tower"  . .  .  And,  if  I  stick  around,  Cathy 
will  be  dropping  by  any  minute.  So  I 
say,  sez  I,  "Don't  nobody  move" — the 
customary  Brady  byline  when  some- 
thing is  cooking.  I  had  asked  a  leading 
question,  and  composers,  song  pluggers, 
distributors,  publishers  and  record 
companies  love  them. 

About  then  we  are  visited  by  as  like- 
able a  guy  as  you'll  find,  singing  star 
Dick  Noel,  who  also  records  on  the 
Fraternity  label  with  Cathy.  And  right 
on  his  heels  is  publisher's  representa- 
tive Al  Beilin — who  reaches  for  the 
glass  bowl  full  of  sugar  lumps,  throws 
it  over  his  right  shoulder  with  his  right 
hand  and  catches  it  behind  his  back 
with  his  left.  Some  day  he'll  miss,  and 
I  want  to  be  there. 


It  is  then  that  we  move  to  the  big 
round  table,  and  in  walks  our  Cin- 
derella girl,  Cathy  Carr.  If  I  were  al- 
lowed two  words  to  describe  her  I 
would  say  sweet  and  petite.  But  she's 
more  than  that.  Pretty,  too  .  .  .  blond 
hair,  a  twinkle  in  her  eyes  and  I  guess 
she'd  probably  wear  a  small-size  glass 
slipper. 

With  a  little  quizzing  on  my  part, 
the  Cathy  Carr  story  began  to  unfold. 
Cathy  calls  the  Bronx,  New  York, 
home.  It  was  there  that  this  little  Cin- 
derella graduated  from  high  school  and 
started  a  singing  career  that  began  with 
the  little  bands,  and  some  of  the  big 
ones,  including  Sammy  Kaye.  She  had 
a  couple  of  record  releases,  but  nothing 
seemed  to  happen.  She  signed  with 
GA.C.  and  was  booked  into  clubs  and 
began  to  get  the  real  feel  of  what  the 
audience  wanted  her  to  do.  Cathy 
styled  her  singing  accordingly.  Indeed, 
she  became  a  real  song  stylist,  as  op- 
posed to  the  out-and-out  commercial 
bandstand  songstress. 

And  how  did  she  come  to  the  atten- 
tion of  Harry  Carlson,  president  of 
Fraternity  Records,  who  launched  her 
on  her  real  recording  career  and  to 
whom  she  is  so  grateful?  Well,  it  was 
Harry's  friend,  Frank  Hanshaw,  who 
discovered  Cathy  at  a  club  in  Detroit 
and  sent  her  to  Cincinnati  to  hear 
Fraternity's  offer.  Oh,  yes,  there  were 
record  releases  with  Fraternity  that  did 
very  little  to  set  our  Cinderella's  car- 
riage in  motion.  But  then  it  came,  in 
early  '56  ...  a  song  that  was  to  project 
Cathy  to  heights  far  exceeding  that  of 


the  Alabaster  Tower  she  was  to  sing 
about — that  "Ivory  Tower." 

I  was  very  close  to  that  song  from  the 
day  the  composers — Jack  Fulton  and 
Lois  Steel — first  played  the  demonstra- 
tion record  for  me.  I  saw  record  com- 
panies turn  them  down  time  after  time, 
because  they  felt  the  song  just  didn't 
have  it.  But  the  keen  ears  of  Harry 
Carlson  perked  up  when  he  heard  it, 
and  he  said,  "This  is  for  Cathy." 

You  know  the  rest  .  .  .  the  song  went 
right  up  the  ladder  on  the  Hit  Parade. 
It  became  Number  One  in  Canada  and 
Australia  and  Cathy  was  on  her  way. 
If  you  took  the  top  dozen  records  of 
1956,  you  would  find  Cathy  Carr's 
"Ivory  Tower"  among  them.  The 
months  to  follow  saw  Cathy  on  The 
Perry  Como  Show,  The  Lawrence  Welk 
Show  and  The  Cross  Canada  Hit 
Parade,  among  others. 

About  this  time,  Cathy  sipped  the  last 
of  her  coffee  and  reached  into  her 
purse  for  some  airline  tickets  to  double- 
check  her  time  of  departure.  When  I 
asked  where  she  was  going,  she  said, 
in  excited  tones,  "Didn't  you  know, 
Josh  .  .  .  I'm  going  on  a  tour  with  Stan 
Kenton,  Guy  Mitchell  and  Lionel 
Hampton  and  we're  leaving  for  Aus- 
tralia this  afternoon." 

And  as  she  left,  you  couldn't  help  but 
say  to  yourself:  I  do  hope  her  latest, 
"Speak  for  Yourself,  John,"  is  another 
"Ivory  Tower."  She  deserves  it.  I'm 
sure  the  hands  of  time  will  move  slowly 
toward  the  hour  of  midnight  for  our 
little,  modern-day  Cinderella,  Cathy 
Carr. 


60 


Josh  Brady  is  heard  on  WBBM  on  weekdays  at  8:45  A.M.  and  at  11:15  A.M.  and  on  Saturday  and  Sunday  from  9:30  A.M.  to  noon. 


Sing  and  Be  Happy 

(Continued  from  page  33) 
lovely  lips,  too,  and  through  these  lips 
passes  one  of  the  finest  voices  of  the  day. 
During  the  past  season,  this  voice  made 
her  a  frequent  guest  on  such  top  network 
shows  as  Ed  Sullivan's  and  George  Gobel's. 
For  two  years,  it  kept  her  on  Don  Mc- 
Neill's Breakfast  Club,  and  she  could  have 
stayed  on  forever.  When  Betty  sings  a 
love  song,  her  voice  breezes  right  up  the 
nape  of  your  neck.  On  a  rhythm  number, 
she  belts  wide  and  handsome.  And  yet 
she  isn't  a  pop  singer  by  choice. 

"I  never  wanted  to  be  an  entertainer  or 
pop  singer,"  Betty  says.  "My  ambition, 
right  up  to  the  time  I  was  nineteen,  was 
to  sing  religious  music.  But  down  South, 
where  I  lived,  a  woman  can't  travel  and 
sing  by  herself.  On  my  first  trip  to  New 
York  as  a  soloist,  I  auditioned  with  hymns 
for  six  weeks.  No  one  even  threw  me 
a  bone." 

But  pretty,  pert  Betty  is  no  softie.  She 
is  used  to  handicaps,  road-blocks,  insuffi- 
cient funds  and  plain  bad  luck.  She  wasn't 
born  with  a  silver  spoon  in  her  mouth  and 
nothing  has  been  presented  to  her  on  a 
silver  platter.  As  young  as  she  is — twenty- 
five,  this  past  March — her  career  has  been 
as  colorful  as  an  entertainer's  twice  her 
age,  for  Betty  began  singing  when  she 
was  four  years  old. 

In  those  days,  dressed  in  a  gingham 
dress  and  white  stockings,  she  sang  with 
her  family,  The  Johnson  Singers,  at 
churches,  evangelical  meetings,  weddings, 
funerals,  country  fairs  and  fish  fries  and 
barbecues.  The  Johnsons  were  poor  ten- 
ant farmers  who  sang  for  the  love  of  sing- 
ing. When  the  crops  were  in,  Jesse  Deverin 
Johnson  hitched  his  homemade  trailer  to 
a  tired  model-A  Ford  and  the  family  trav- 
eled and  sang. 

"We  worked  for  nothing,"  Betty  says 
frankly,  "but  I  never  felt  poor,  because 
Daddy  never  asked  for  anything.  We  might 
be  hundreds  of  miles  from  home,  and  it 
was  obvious  that  we  had  no  money.  We 
would  be  there  to  sing  at  an  evangelical 
meeting  and  the  preacher  would  collect 
money  so  that  we  could  get  home.  He 
would  usually  put  the  money  in  an  en- 
velope before  he  gave  it  to  Daddy.  Well, 
Daddy  would  save  the  envelope  for  an 
emergency.  And  nearly  every  time,  just 
as  he  got  the  envelope  out  to  buy  some- 
thing we  simply  had  to  have — like  gaso- 
line or  a  loaf  of  bread — something  would 
happen.  We'd  stop  at  a  gas  station  and 
start  to  sing,  and  someone  would  donate 
the  gas  and  someone  else  would  invite  us 
in  for  dinner.  Poor  people  know  how  to 
take  care  of  one  another.  And  so  we'd  get 
home  with  the  envelope  unopened.  At 
home,  we'd  have  a  big  ceremony  before 
we  mailed  back  the  money,  although 
sometimes  we  had  to  borrow  a  few  cents 
for  postage  stamps." 

Betty  was  born  on  a  farm  near  Cat 
Square,  North  Carolina.  Cat  Square  was 
more  of  a  general  store  than  a  town.  She 
grew  up  in  another  area  known  as  Possum 
Walk  and  later  went  to  high  school  at 
Paws  Creek.  "We  didn't  have  a  home  of 
our  own,"  she  says.  "As  sharecroppers,  we 
moved  from  one  farm  to  another  and  we 
lived  in  log  cabins.  And  Daddy  really 
loved  real  log  cabins.  There  was  usually 
one  big  room  on  the  ground.  This  was 
kitchen  and  living  room,  as  well  as  bed- 
room for  my  parents.  The  kids  slept  in 
the  room  overhead,  kind  of  an  attic,  and 
we  got  up  there  by  ladder.  But  the  cabin 
was  our  castle  and  Mother  kept  it  as 
neat  as  the  most  beautiful  mansion." 

Betty's  mother  is  a  petite,  pretty  woman 
and  Betty  resembles  her.  Betty  has  no 
sisters.  Her  father  and  three  brothers  are 


DO  ANY  OF  THESE 

PROBLEMS 

GET  YOU  DOWN? 


•  How   I   can  Tell   My  Fiance 
about  my  Past 

•  How  to  Cope  with  a  Jeal- 
ous Husband 

•  Understanding  Your  In-laws 

•  Meeting    the    Demands    of 
Growing  Older 

•  Is  Artificial  Insemination  the 
Answer  for  Childlessness? 


•  Can  a  Divorcee  Start  Anew? 

•  Should   We   Break   Off  or 
Should  We  Marry? 

•  How    Should    Teenagers 
Handle  Love? 

•  How    Can    We    Help    Our 
Children? 

•  Getting    a    Part-time    or    a 
Full-time  Job 


Get  the  Answers  to  These  and  Many  Other 
Questions  from  "WHAT  SHOULD  I  DO?  - 

the  Questional  Answer  Guide  to  Solving  Your  Personal  Problems. 


Here,  at  last,  is  a  book  with  intimate 
insight  into  your  most  personal  prob- 
lems— the  questions  you  would  like  to 
ask — the  questions  so  prevalent  in  our 
modern,  complex  way  of  life.  These 
aren't  hypothetical  cases,  but  actual 
letters  from  real  people — selected 
from  over  50,000  written  to  the  Editors 
of  True  Story  Magazine  since  the  fea- 
ture started.  They  have  been  an- 
swered with  honesty,  sincerity,  and 
deep  understanding.  Each  question  is 
analyzed  clearly  and  answered  reli- 
ably, with  a  profound  respect  for  the 
deep  needs  of  the  men  and  women 
who  are  facing  these  problems  and 
those  who  may  encounter  them  in  the 
future. 

THESE  are  typical  excerpts  from  the 
hundreds  of  actual  letters  contained 
in  "WHAT  SHOULD  I  DO?": 

"My  husband  and  I  get  along 
wonderfully  together,  but  we 
aren't  happy  in  our  physical  re- 
lations .   .   ." 

"I  am  fifteen  and  a  sophomore 
in  high  school.  I'm  not  bad-look- 
ing, but  I  have  never  been  asked 
for  a  date  .  .  ." 

"How  do  you  tell  a  twelve-year- 
old   boy  the  facts  of  life?   ..." 


Not  only  does  this  helpful  book  analyze 
and  answer  these  questions  —  but  it 
contains  an  appendix  which  lists  agen- 
cies, both  public  and  private,  from 
which  additional  help  can  be  obtained. 
It  also  tells  the  sources  from  which  nu- 
merous pamphlets,  booklets,  books, 
and  articles  covering  pertinent  sub- 
jects can  be  obtained. 

WHERE  ELSE  can  you  find  so  much 
help — so  quickly  and 
easily — without  leav- 
ing the  privacy  of 
your  home?  Just  send 
in  the  coupon  below 
and  $1.00  for  YOUR 
copy  of  "WHAT 
SHOULD  I  DO?" 

MAIL  COUPON 
TODAY! 


Bartholomew  House,  Inc..  Dept.  WG  757 
205  E.  42nd  St.,  New  York  17.  N.  Y. 

Send  me  a  copy  of  "WHAT  SHOULD  I   DO?' 
I   enclose   $1.00. 


NAME. 


STREET. 


(Please   Print) 


CITY STATE. 


61 


all  tall,  handsome  men.  Her  older  brother 
Ken,  a  graduate  of  Duke  University's 
Divinity  School,  is  a  minister  at  the  First 
Methodist  Church  in  Ashboro,  North  Caro- 
lina. Betty's  twin  brothers,  Jimmy  and 
Bobby,  are  students  at  Chapel  Hill.  Betty 
herself,  who  is  continuing  her  academic 
studies  by  extension  at  Northwestern  Uni- 
versity, got  in  two  years  of  resident  study 
at  Queens  College  at  Charlotte,  North 
Carolina. 

"I  don't  know  how  we  did  those  things," 
she  says.  "I  remember  Daddy  said  to  us, 
'You've  got  to  forget  about  going  to  col- 
lege. We  have  no  money.'  He  loved  us 
and  wanted  us  to  have  the  best,  but  he 
told  us  the  literal  truth.  We  had  no  money. 
We  couldn't  possibly  afford  college — but 
we  did.  Of  course,  we  worked  hard.  I  had 
as  many  as  five  jobs  at  a  time,  and  it  was 
worth  it.  I  loved  the  school." 

Betty's  constant  companions,  until  she 
went  to  college,  were  her  three  brothers 
and  their  male  friends.  With  them  she 
swam,  caught  rats,  rode  horses.  She  was 
a  rough-and-tumble  tomboy.  "I  had  to  be. 
If  I'd  ever  complained  to  my  parents  about 
what  the  boys  did  to  me,  I  wouldn't  have 
had  anyone  to  play  with.  I  remember  how 
they  taught  me  to  swim.  They  just  pitched 
me  into  a  pond  and  it  was  sink  or  swim. 
And  they  taught  me  to  ride  by  tying  me 
to  a  saddle.  The  horse  took  off  through 
some  trees  and  I  was  nearly  broken  in 
half  by  low  limbs."  When  Betty  went  to 
college,  she  studied  home  economics  and 
made  good  grades,  although  she  had  a  hard 
time  keeping  her  mind  on  her  studies.  "It 
wasn't  that  I  was  thinking  about  boys.  To 
the  contrary,  I  had  been  so  starved  for 
female  companionship  that  I  just  couldn't 
stop  talking  and  listening  to  my  new 
friends.  It  was  just  so  wonderful  to  hear 
girl-talk." 

Betty  always  sang.  Even  while  in  col- 
lege she  was  on  two  radio  programs  out 
of  Charlotte.  One  program  was  her  own 
and  the  other  was  with  the  Family.  Until 
1950,  The  Johnson  Family  was  a  CBS  net- 
work feature  on  the  program,  Carolina 
Calling,  originating  from  Station  WBT  in 
Charlotte.  "But  radio  or  evangelical  meet- 
ings," says  Betty,  "it  was  all  the  same. 
All  fun.  From  the  time  I  was  four,  we 
went  as  a  family  to  prayer  meetings.  We 
sang  until  midnight  or  into  the  early 
morning.  It  wasn't  work.  Work  was  pick- 
ing cotton  during  the  day  and  often  we 
were  all  in  the  field  together.  For  that, 
we  were  paid.  But  we  sang  because  people 
wanted  to  hear  us,  and  it's  wonderful  be- 
ing able  to  sing  that  way.  People  love  you 
for  what  you  are  doing  and  the  happiness 
it  gives  them.  We  never  thought  of  our- 
selves as  entertainers." 

The  Johnsons  became  nationally  famous 
and  started  recording  for  Columbia  Rec- 
ords. It  was  at  one  of  these  sessions  that 
Percy  Faith  put  the  bug  in  Betty's  ear 
about  being  a  soloist.  "He  came  into  the 
studio  to  talk  with  us  and  said,  'Betty,  I 
think  you  ought  to  be  on  your  own.  If 
you  ever  decide  to  do  something  about  it, 
call  me  up.'  Well,  that  was  in  1950.  Next 
year,  I  decided  I  had  to  do  something  for 
my  parents.  Mother  and  Dad  were  farm- 
ing, but  also  looking  to  singing  for  part 
of  their  income.  Well,  in  1951,  we  were 
touring  Veterans'  Hospitals  and  I  remem- 
ber we  were  in  Parkersburg,  West  Vir- 
ginia, when  I  took  a  good  look  at  Daddy 
and  Mom.  They  looked  tired.  The  travel- 
ing was  getting  to  be  too  much  for  them. 
I  had  a  long  talk  with  them  and  said  that 
I  was  going  up  to  New  York  and  sing 
T  my  way  into  fame  and  fortune  and  then 
V  take  care  of  them.  They  took  the  practical 
B  attitude  and  told  me  I'd  just  knock  my 
brains   out.   But  up   I   went   in   October." 

Betty  stuck  it  out  for  six  weeks  on  forty 
62 


dollars.  She  remembers:  "I  was  so  miser- 
able and  lonely.  I  took  to  baby-sitting — 
and  not  just  for  the  money,  but  because  I 
was  so  homesick  and,  that  way,  I'd  get 
into  someone's  home.  And  I  was  always 
hungry.  Once  in  a  while,  Percy  Faith 
would  take  me  out  and  feed  me  and  try 
to  pep  me  up.  I  went  around  auditioning 
and  singing  hymns.  No  one  would  give  me 
the  toss  of  his  hat.  I  gave  up  and  went 
home.  Spring  of  the  following  year,  I 
went  North  again.  This  time  I  took  Percy's 
advice  and  auditioned  with  a  popular 
song.  It  was  'Tenderly.'  I  tried  for  Arthur 
Godfrey's  Talent  Scouts  and  got  on  the 
show  and  won.  That  was  a  break.  That 
got  me  a  job  at  the  Copacabana  at  one 
hundred  and  fifty  dollars  a  week  for  six 
weeks.  I  sent  home  a  hundred  a  week  and 
lived  on  what  was  left  after  tax,  social  se- 
curity deductions,  et  cetera.  Well,  everyone 
was  wonderful  to  me  at  the  Copa.  I  wasn't 
the  star  in  the  show,  by  any  means.  I  sang 
in  the  opening  production  number — but 
sang  well  enough,  I  guess,  for  they 
wanted  me  to  stay  another  six  weeks. 
But  I  wasn't  feeling  too  well,  and  I  went 
back  home  again." 

That  winter,  Betty  stayed  home,  singing 
and  recording  with  the  family.  But,  in 
March  of  1953,  she  was  back  in  Manhattan 
to  audition  for  CBS  and,  this  time,  got  a 
contract  to  do  a  regular  network  pro- 
gram. She  sang  with  Alfredo  Antonini's 
orchestra  on  the  show,  On  A  Sunday 
Afternoon.  "Antonini  thought  I  could 
read  music,"  she  recalls,  "but  I've  never 
had  a  music  lesson.  The  only  kind  of 
accompaniment  I  was  used  to  working 
with  was  a  guitar  and,  naturally,  I  felt 
friendly  toward  guitar  players.  So  I  told 
Antonini's  guitarist  about  my  predicament 
and  he  used  to  keep  an  eye  on  me  and 
would  give  me  a  nod  when  I  was  to  come 
in.  Of  course,  after  that,  I  had  no  trouble." 

She  sang  on  the  CBS  Radio  show,  There's 
Music  In  The  Air,  and  was  also  a  featured 
singer  on  Galen  Drake's  program.  Then 
the  Borden  Company  hired  her  as  the 
"Borden  Girl"  for  all  of  their  commercials. 
By  then  it  was  1954,  and  it  was  in  June 
of  that  year  that  she  walked  into  the 
Trinity  Music  Company  and  met  Charlie 
Grean  and  Joe  Csida. 

Charlie  Grean's  background  differs  from 
Betty's.  He  was  raised  in  Mount  Vernon, 
New  York.  That's  a  suburb  of  New  York 
City,  and  it  would  not  make  sense  to  call 
anyone  raised  in  Mount  Vernon  a  hill- 
billy. Charlie's  father,  a  retired  designer, 
is  an  artist.  Charlie  has  two  older  brothers 
who  are  lawyers  and  a  younger  brother 
who  is  a  minister.  Charlie  was  no  back- 
woodsman, but  Betty  says,  "I  took  to 
him  right  away  because  I  thought  he  was 
a  real  hillbilly.  It  was  the  way  he  talked 
to  me,  as  if  he  understood  me.  He  didn't 
make  me  feel  ashamed  of  my  background. 
There  is  something  that  Charlie  has  in 
common  with  country  people.  I  know 
that,  where  I  come  from,  my  friends  think 
he's  one  of  them — unless  they  listen  too 
closely  to  his  Yankee  accent." 

Charlie,  who  plays  bass,  had  fiddled 
with  some  "country"  groups.  He  had 
worked  five  years  at  Victor  Records  and 
had  spent  time  in  the  country-music 
division  before  he  moved  into  the  pop 
department.  Today,  Charlie  and  Joe  Csida, 
former  editor  of  Billboard,  are  partners  in 
Trinity  Music.  They  publish  sheet  music 
and  manage  such  artists  as  Eddy  Arnold, 
Jim  Lowe,  Norm  Leyden,  Kathy  Godfrey 
— and  Betty  Johnson.  On  the  side,  Charlie 
Grean  is  also  a  songwriter.  He  penned 
Betty's  hit,  "I  Dreamed."  He  wrote  the 
Dinah  Shore  best-seller,  "Sweet  Violets," 
and  the  novelty  hit  of  1950,  "The  Thing." 

"You  might  say  Betty  came  into  our 
office  cold,"  Charlie  says.  "I  didn't  know 
her.    Jim    Leyden,    Norm's    brother,    sent 


her  in,  saying  that  she  was  looking  for 
management.  And  I  was  about  an  hour 
late  for  my  appointment  with  her.  I 
couldn't  help  it — but,  when  I  realize  now 
that  I  might  have  missed  her,  it  gives  me 
kind  of  a  shock.  Anyway,  she  was  for- 
giving about  my  late  entrance.  I  talked  to 
her  and  liked  her  attitude.  She  was  open 
and  frank.  I  listened  to  her  recording  and 
she  reminded  me  of  Rosemary  Clooney  or 
Doris  Day." 

Charlie  went  into  his  partner's  office. 
"I  told  Joe  I  wanted  him  to  talk  to  this 
girl  and  tell  me  if  he  liked  her.  So  Joe 
sat  a  spell  with  her,  and  I  met  him  out- 
side the  office  and  he  said,  'I  like  her.  She's 
great.  Are  you  sure  she  can  sing?'  I  told 
him  that  I  was,  went  back  into  my  office, 
and  told  Betty  we  wanted  to  sign  her.  She 
said,  'Sure.  In  a  few  days.'  Then  she  went 
out  and  had  us  investigated." 

Betty  grins  as  he  tells  this  story.  "Well," 
she  chuckles,  "I  knew  you  had  a  lot  of 
friends  in  the  business,  but  I  wanted  to 
see  if  you  knew  how  to  work  as  hard  as  I 
did  and  whether  you  had  talent." 

(^harlie  got  to  work  on  Betty's  career 
immediately.  She  was  under  contract  to 
Bell  Records,  and  then  made  three  re- 
leases for  RCA  Victor.  For  Bell,  she  cut 
every  top  tune  that  came  along,  which 
meant  a  lot  of  good  experience,  as  well  as 
working  with  master  arranger  Sy  Oliver. 
At  RCA,  she  was  one  of  about  seventeen 
young  girls  on  the  list,  so  Charlie  asked 
Victor  to  release  her  from  contract.  They 
did,  and  Charlie  got  her  working  with 
Bally  Records.  The  first  record  that  made 
any  real  money  for  Betty  was  the  disc, 
"Please  Tell  Me  Why,"  for  Bally. 

"She  came  to  me  then,"  Charlie  recalls, 
"and  asked  how  much  money  she'd  made 
on  that  record  after  costs.  I  figured  it  out 
for  her,  then  she  said,  'Well,  I'm  going  to 
buy  myself  something  for  the  first  time.' 
She  went  out  and  bought  a  diamond  soli- 
taire.' In  the  ring  band,  she  inscribed  the 
tune  title  and  her  birthday.  She  explained, 
"This  will  be  for  my  first-born  girl.'  " 

Betty  is  no  spendthrift.  Neither  she  nor 
her  brothers  have  drawn  heavily  on  their 
parents,  and  they  have  always  contributed 
to  the  family  kitty.  Even  the  twins  at  col- 
lege do  not  take  financial  assistance  from 
their  parents — although  the  mink  coat  Bet- 
ty hasn't  bought  has  helped  meet  their 
tuition.  During  the  two  years  Betty  worked 
with  Don  McNeill,  she  earned  a  very  good 
salary,  but  she  still  wasn't  extravagant. 
She  had  a  modest  apartment  in  Chicago's 
Loop  that  she  decorated  herself. 

"I  have  a  lot  of  experience  in  sewing 
and  just  doing  for  myself,"  she  explains. 
"When  I  was  a  child,  I  won  the  state  4-H 
Club  prizes  for  my  string  beans  and  for 
my  own  clothes  that  I'd  made,  and  for 
canning  beets  and  chow-chow.  The  first 
important  thing  I  ever  bought  myself  was 
a  portable  sewing  machine.  That  was  in 
college,  and  I've  been  making  my  own 
clothes  continuously.  So — fixing  up  the 
apartment  was  a  lot  of  fun.  It  was  a 
charming  place.  It  was  over  a  coffee  shop 
and  you  had  to  walk  through  the  shop  to 
get  to  my  apartment." 

"I  thought  it  looked  dull  and  depress- 
ing when  we  first  looked  at  it,"  Charlie 
admits,  "but  Betty  didn't  see  it  that  way. 
She  was  already  seeing  in  her  mind's 
eye  what  she  would  do  to  it,  and  she  did 
a  lot." 

"My  favorite  colors  are  pink  and  white," 
says  Betty,  "and  those  were  the  predom- 
inating colors  even  to  the  bathroom 
walls.  There  was  a  small  bedroom  and  I 
turned  that  into  a  dressing-work  room. 
We  did  a  lot  of  sewing  there.  'We'  includes 
my  Chicago  friend  Mary  Clinton,  a  young 
designer.  Together  we  made  all  of  my 
clothes.  Every  gown  I've  worn  has  come 


from  her  hands  and  mine."  Betty  adds, 
"The  apartment  turned  out  very  nice, 
very  charming.  Everything  was  antique 
or  secondhand,  depending  on  your  view- 
point. Furnishings  for  the  whole  place 
cost  me  only  a  hundred  and  fifty  dollars." 

When  Betty  moved  to  New  York's 
Greenwich  Village  this  past  spring,  she 
brought  along  her  tremendous  collection 
of  classical  records  and  her  library  on  the 
Civil  War.  Charlie  kids  that  she's  been 
trying  to  find  a  Civil  War  book  in  which 
the  South  wins.  Betty  explains  more  ac- 
curately that  her  interest  started  in  child- 
hood: "I  saw  many  beautiful  Southern 
mansions.  We  lived  in  none,  but  mighty 
close  by  in  our  cabins.  It  was  the  old 
homes  that  stimulated  my  interest  in  the 
Civil  War  period." 

Being  engaged  to  a  man  who  was  usually 
half  a  continent  distant,  Betty  had  too 
much  time  to  read.  "The  trouble  with  our 
romance,"  says  Charlie,  "was  that  we 
were  never  together  more  than  a  few  days 
at  a  time.  Neither  of  us  could  see  any 
sense  in  starting  off  a  marriage  with  that 
kind  of  handicap." 

Betty  and  Charlie  had  hit  it  off  well 
from  the  beginning.  "We  didn't  even 
think  anything  personal  the  whole  first 
year,"  he  says  now.  "It  was  strictly  busi- 
ness. But  we  worked  so  well  together. 
And,  the  second  summer  I  knew  Betty,  I 
invited  her  out  on  my  boat.  Well,  she'd 
never  been  on  a  boat  before,  but  again 
she  was  just  a  natural.  She  pitched  right 
in — cooking,  cleaning,  sailing.  It  was  obvi- 
ous that  she  would  make  a  wonderful  first 
mate.  I  fell  in  love  and  renamed  the  boat 
the  'Beejay.'" 

But,  once  they  realized  they  were  in 
love,  their  romance  got  a  bit  rocky.  "Being 
apart  most  of  the  time  was  terrible," 
Betty  says.  "I  was  in  Chicago.  Charlie  was 
in  Manhattan.  The  tension  got  so  bad  that, 
when  we  did  get  together,  we  were  always 
under  a  strain  the  first  day.  The  second 
day  was  fine.  But,  on  the  third,  we'd  be 
faced  with  separating  again,  and  so  it  was 
a  fight." 

Charlie  thinks  it's  just  a  matter  of 
months  before  they're  married.  He  knows 
he  has  a  real  find  in  Betty.  "After  all,  I 
know  enough  about  the  business  to  know 
she  has  a  great  talent.  And,  when  it  comes 
to  domestic  virtues,  she  can't  be  beat. 
Even  her  cooking  is  great.  She  makes 
Southern-fried  chicken  as  good  as  a 
Yankee.  Her  beef  Stroganoff  is  angelic 
and  her  apple  pie  is  downright  sexy.  And 
the  way  she  does  it!  Why,  she  prepares  the 
whole  meal,  serves  it,  eats  with  you — 
and  has  the  table  cleared  off  and  the  dishes 
washed  and  dried  before  you  finish  your 
coffee.  Never  any  fuss." 

Betty  matches  Charlie's  enthusiasm 
when  she  talks  about  Charlie,  and  she 
notes  that  even  her  parents  are  crazy 
about  him.  Her  parents  still  make  their 
home  in  North  Carolina,  and  today  Jesse 
Johnson  has  a  hundred-acre  farm  of  his 
own,  and  a  Cadillac  instead  of  a  model-A. 
Jesse  Johnson  is  also  a  deejay  on  Station 
WDIX  in  Orangeburg  and  hasn't,  by  any 
means,  given  up  singing.  The  Johnson 
Family  has  a  standing  invitation  to  ap- 
pear on  Ed  Sullivan's  show — and  that  in- 
cludes Betty.  They  have  a  handsome 
album  on  the  market,  issued  by  Victor, 
named  "Old  Time  Religion."  This,-  too, 
includes  Betty.  Betty  has  always  been 
close  to  the  family  and  has  particularly 
depended  on  her  father  for  comfort  and 
advice.  She  has  always  called  on  him  when 
she's  had  a  hard  decision  to  make — which 
was  the  case  recently,  before  quitting  Don 
McNeill's  Breakfast  Club. 

"I've  wanted  to  study  acting  and  danc- 
ing for  a  long  time  now,"  Betty  explains. 
"I  did  work  a  couple  of  months  on  a 
radio  serial,  a  couple  of  years  back.  But. 


when  I  decided  to  leave  Chicago,  I  called 
Daddy.  It  had  been  wonderful  experience 
being  with  Don  McNeill  two  full  years, 
and  he's  so  great  to  work  with.  But  I 
called  Daddy  about  what  I  wanted  to  do, 
and  he  said,  'Well,  Don  likes  you  and  you 
could  stay  on  and  it's  great  security.'  So 
I  told  him,  'I  want  to  study  for  a  while.  I 
want  to  go  to  New  York.'  So  he  said, 
'Then  do  it  now,  rather  than  later.' " 

Betty  notes  that  her  father  shares  her 
enthusiasm  for  Charlie.  'What  Charlie 
means  to  me  I  can  best  tell  in  Daddy's 
words.  It  came  about  after  my  first  ap- 
pearance on  Ed  Sullivan's  show.  That  was 
before  Christmas  last  year.  It  was  a 
momentous  evening  for  me.  Sullivan  in- 


spires me — he's  like  a  coach  and  I'm  the 
team.  Well,  I  thought  the  show  went 
well  and,  a  few  days  later,  I  had  a  letter 
from  Daddy.  He  loves  Charlie  and  I 
wasn't  surprised  at  what  he  had  to  say. 
He  told  me  first  that  I  sounded  and 
looked  so  good  on  the  Sullivan  show.  He 
wrote,  'Sullivan  must  be  a  wonderful 
man  to  show  your  talents  so  well  and  you 
must  be  very  fond  of  him.  But  remember 
one  man  you  owe  everything  to — and 
that  is  Charlie  Grean,  because  Charlie 
had  faith  in  you.  He's  done  the  things  for 
you  I'd  have  done  if  I'd  had  his  talent.  You 
have  his  faith  and  love  and  you're  a 
lucky  girl.'  And  that,"  Betty  concludes, 
"is  hitting  the  nail  on  the  head." 


*Voti 


C  FOR  YOUR  FAVORITES 


Each  year  TV  Radio  Mirror  polls  its  readers  for  their  favorite  programs 
and  performers.  This  year,  for  the  first  time,  the  polling  will  begin  in 
the  July  issue  and  continue  until  the  end  of  the  year.  Results  will  be 
tabulated  after  December  31,  and  award  winners  will  be  announced  in 
the  May  1958  issue.  So  vote  today.  Help  your  favorites  to  win  a  Gold  Medal. 


TV  STARS  and  PROGRAMS 

Male  Singer 

Female  Singer   

Comedian     

Comedienne     

Dramatic   Actor    

Dramatic  Actress    

Daytime  Emcee   

Evening    Emcee    

Musical    Emcee    

Quizmaster     

Western    Star    

News  Commentator    

Sportscaster     

Best  New  Star   

Daytime    Drama    

Evening    Drama     

Daytime  Variety    

Evening   Variety    

Comedy  Program    

Music  Program    

Quiz  Program    

Women's   Program    

Children's    Program    

Mystery    or    Adventure     

Western  Program    

TV   Panel  Show 

Best  Program  on  Air    

Best  New  Program    

TV   Husband-and-Wife  Team  .  .  . 


RADIO  STARS  and  PROGRAMS 

Male  Singer 

Female  Singer    

Comedian     

Comedienne     

Dramatic    Actor    

Dramatic  Actress    

Daytime   Emcee    

Evening    Emcee    

Musical    Emcee    

Quizmaster     

Western    Star     

News  Commentator    

Sportscaster     

Best  New  Star    

Daytime    Drama     

Evening     Drama     

Daytime  Variety    

Evening    Variety     

Comedy   Program    

Music   Program    

Quiz   Program    . 

Women's    Program     

Children's    Program     

Mystery    or    Adventure     

Wes'ern   Program    

Radio   Record   Program    

Best  Program   on  Air    

Best   New  Program    


Send  your  votes  to  TV  Radio  Mirror  Awards.  P.O.  Box 
No.  1767,  Grand  Central  Station,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 


63 


(Continued  from  page  30) 
day    long,    drew    the    kids    from    blocks 
around,   with   her   pied-piper   personality. 
The  Funicello  lawn  was  soon  the  gather- 
ing place  for  the  whole  neighborhood. 

Annette  dreamed  of  becoming  a  famous 
dancer— with  a  chance  of  someday  meeting 
a  real  movie  star.  But,  in  her  wildest 
dreams,  she  never  imagined  that  her  some 
fifteen  admirers  would  so  quickly  grow  to 
some  fifteen  million  TV  fans  across  the 
country!  Through  the  marvel  of  television 
—and  the  magic  touch  of  Walt  Disney- 
Annette  surprisingly  found  herself  the 
center  of  attention  among  a  hundred  movie 
stars,  just  four  short  years  later,  at  the 
Foreign  Press  Awards  presentation  in  the 
Cocoanut  Grove,  where  Mr.  Disney  and 
his  ABC-TV  "Mouseketeers"  were  being 
honored.  Wide-eyed,  Annette  found  her- 
self face-to-face  with  Alan  Ladd— and 
Alan  Ladd  said,  "My  son  David  is  a  great 
admirer  of  yours,  Annette.  Could  I  have 
your  autograph  for  him?" 

Annette — who  never  thought  she'd  see 
so  many  stars  at  one  time,  and  certainly 
never  dreamed  she'd  be  one — couldn't  be- 
lieve this  was  happening  to  her.  The  pert 
little  princess  of  TV  had  to  pinch  herself 
to  be  sure  she  still  wasn't  dreaming. 

Born  in  Utica,  New  York,  October  22, 
1942,  Annette  Funicello  was  always  so  tiny 
for  her  age  that  her  father  had  nicknamed 
her  "Dolly"  before  she  was  old  enough  to 
walk.  "When  Annette  was  one-and-a- 
half,"  says  her  mother,  Virginia,  "she  be- 
gan picking  up,  by  ear,  every  pop  song  on 
radio.  The  first  song  she  learned  in  its 
entirety  was  Johnny  Mercer's  'Accentuate 
the  Positive.'  The  members  of  our  family 
were  amazed  when  Annette — still  only 
about  two  feet  tall — would  stand  and  sing 
at  the  top  of  her  lungs,  'You've  got  to 
accent-chew-ate  the  positive  .  .  .'  Yet 
Annette  has  always  been  shy.  She  would 
sing  for  her  family.  But,  if  a  stranger 
were  present,  she  was  quiet  as  a  bird. 

"When  Annette  was  five,"  her  mother 
continues,  "I  started  her  in  kindergarten. 
Still  shy,  and  surprised  to  find  five  hundred 
other  children  on  the  schoolground,  she 
cried  all  day.  But  she  was  quick  to  adjust. 
In  fact,  she  was  soon  singing  for  the  entire 
student  body.  The  principal,  amazed  by 
her  wonderful  sense  of  rhythm  and  appar- 
ently natural  musical  ability,  called  me 
one  day  to  say  he  thought  we  should  do 
something  to  develop  it.  He  suggested 
Annette's  taking  up  drums. 

"This  was  an  exciting — and,  at  the  same 
time,  heart-breaking — experience  for  all 
of  us,"  recalls  Mrs.  Funicello.  "Annette 
soon  became  a  master,  for  her  age.  At  six 
and  seven,  she  was  doing  rolls  and  per- 
forming with  her  drums  as  well  as  a  boy 
of  fifteen  or  sixteen.  All  her  life,  it  had 
been  obvious  that  she  possessed  a  natural 
musical  ability.  Then,  suddenly,  we  were 
surprised  to  find  that  Annette  had  become 
so  involved  with  the  rhythm  of  her  in- 
strument that  she  had  developed  rhythmic 
quirks  throughout  her  body — her  eyes 
blinked,  her  head  nodded  in  time  to  such 
an  extent  that  we  knew  she  would  have 
to  give  up  the  drums. 

"We  think  one  of  the  most  soothing  in- 
fluences in  Annette's  life  was  her  religious 
faith.     From    the    first    day    she    went    to 
church,  it  has  been  an  important  part  of 
her  life.    Her  First  Communion  and  Con- 
firmation were  made  at  the  Church  of  the 
Blessed   Sacrament   in   Hollywood,   where 
T    we  had  moved  when  she  was  still  only  six. 
v    She  was  so  serious  about  the  church  that, 
R     when  she  was  younger,  she  wanted  to  be 
a  nun.  Though  she  has  given  this  idea  up, 
today  she  wouldn't  miss  mass  for  anything. 


The  "Dolly"  Princess 

"Roy  Ball,  Annette's  drum  instructor," 
Virginia  Funicello  continues,  "was  sorry  to 
lose  her  but  agreed  she  should  give  up 
drumming.  He  suggested,  however,  that 
Annette  continue  to  develop  her  natural 
talents  and  thought  dancing  would  be  a 
healthful  outlet.  Annette  took  to  dancing 
like  a  bird  to  flight,  though  she  was  still 
shy.  Again  she  was  such  a  standout,  the 
instructor  suggested  she  take  private  les- 
sons. The  first  week  she  was  with  Margie 
Rix,  her  teacher,  the  class  put  on  a  recital. 
This  was  Annette's  first  public  perform- 
ance, and  Joe  and  I  watched  to  see  how  she 
would  react.  After  the  recital,  pink- 
cheeked  with  excitement,  she  came  up  to 
us,  saying,  'Oh,  dancing  is  fun!' 

"When  Annette  was  nine,"  her  mother 
recalls,  "we  were  swimming  at  Pop's  Wil- 
low Lake  in  the  Valley,  one  summer  day, 
when  we  saw  they  were  preparing  to  have 
a  beauty  contest.  Girls  between  nine  and 
sixteen  were  eligible.  'Should  I?'  An- 
nette asked  me.  'I  really  don't  think  I 
have  a  chance.'  But  I  was  pleased  to  see 
some  of  the  shyness  leaving  her,  and  I 
encouraged  her  to  enter.  In  spite  of  the 
fact  that  Annette  was  one  of  the  youngest 
entrants,  her  pert  personality  helped  her 
to  win.  She  was  crowned  'Miss  Willow 
Lake'  and  'Queen  of  the  Valley.' 

"We  were  both  surprised  to  learn  that  a 
raft  of  prizes  came  with  the  title:  $140  in 
cash,  a  wardrobe  and  a  modeling  course 
from  Lynn  Terrell.  Annette  was  thrilled 
with  the  modeling  course.  Every  day  she 
wasn't  dancing,  she  spent  modeling  for  the 
stores  around  the  Valley.  I  think  that's 
how  her  mad  passion  for  new  clothes  de- 
veloped. Today,  she  has  dozens  of  Capri 
pants  and  an  equal  number  of  petticoats. 
"Dancing  and  modeling  were  Annette's 
life,"  says  Mrs.  Funicello.  "But  if  she  had 
had  to  choose  between  them  at  that  time, 
I'm  sure  she  would  have  chosen  dancing. 
She  loved  it.  She  cracked  all  the  tile  in  the 
bathroom  mastering  new  tap  steps!  She 
has  danced,  at  one  time  or  another,  for 
every  hospital  and  charity  in  Los  Angeles. 
"When  she  was  twelve,  Leo  Damiani, 
conductor  of  the  Burbank  Symphony,  pre- 
pared a  recital  for  Walt  Disney.  He  asked 
Margie  Rix's  dancing  class  to  perform  the 
'Swan  Lake'  ballet.  The  very  next  morn- 
ing, Mr.  Traver — the  Disney  assistant  cast- 
ing director — called  to  ask  if  Annette  could 
audition  for  the  Disney  Studios! 

"We  went  in,  the  next  day.  There  seemed 
to  be  a  thousand  children  there  already 
.  .  .  and  they  all  looked  talented.  Annette 
performed,  for  just  a  few  seconds,  in  front 
of  seven  men.  They  didn't  tell  us  how  we 
scored,  at  the  time,  but  we  were  assured 
we'd  be  notified  at  a  later  date.  Two  weeks 
went  by,  before  the  phone  rang." 

Annette  herself  says,  "I  was  anxious 
about  that  second  audition,  too.  But  later, 
Mr.  Disney  came  over  personally  to  say, 
You're  a  very  pretty  girl  and  a  good 
dancer,  too.'  I  was  scared,  going  in — but, 
after  that,  I  felt  like  flying!" 

"At  the  close  of  the  audition,"  Mrs.  Funi- 
cello recalls,  "Annette  was  asked  if  she'd 
be  willing  to  come  in  for  a  two- week  trial. 
At  first,  she  was  frightened — she  had  never 
worked  in  front  of  a  camera.  I  told  her  to 
give  it  a  try.  If  she  didn't  like  it,  she  could 
quit  before  she  signed  a  contract." 

After  two  years  on  the  Mickey  Mouse 
Club,  the  pretty  little  princess  has  found 
TV  land  to  be  a  fabulous  world  of  wishes - 
come-true.  Today,  she  is  a  star  in  her 
own  right,  reportedly  receives  3,500  let- 
ters a  week  from  fans  across  the  country. 
Every  day,  the  mailman  is  Santa  Claus. 
He's  always  glad  when  he  gets  to  An- 
nette's home — because  his  load  is  so  much 
lighter  when  he  leaves.  On  Valentine's 
Day,    for    example,    he    delivered    sixteen 


boxes  of  candy.  And,  during  Easter  Week, 
a  lovely  assortment  of  rosaries  and  prayer 
books  from  fans  who  know  Annette  is  a 
Roman   Catholic. 

Locally,  Annette  has  an  enthusiastic 
Culver  City  fan  club  of  boys.  Frequently, 
on  Saturdays,  they'll  ride  their  bikes  the 
twenty  miles  to  her  Studio  City  home  to 
see  her.  Recently  they  brought  two  dozen 
roses,  and  two  corsages — one  for  Annette 
and  one  for  her  mother.  A  more  distant 
fan  club,  in  Oklahoma,  faithfully  save  up 
their  nickels  and  dimes  until  they  have 
enough  money  to  buy  Annette  another 
gift — usually,  a  bottle  of  perfume. 

Annette  answers  as  much  of  the  mail 
herself  as  she  can.  She  sits  down  and  per- 
sonally writes  long  letters  to  some  of  her 
first  fans  with  whom  she  still  stays  in 
touch.  "I  have  to  come  in  and  turn  off  the 
fights,"  says  Mrs.  Funicello,  "or  Annette 
would  be  writing  all  night.  There  are  some 
letters  she  will  always  answer,  those  from 
the  deaf  and  mute,  ill  and  injured,  and 
letter  writers  who  she  feels  need  a  friend. 

"She's  sensitive  to  the  feelings  of  others," 
Mrs.  Funicello  points  out.  "Her  brother, 
Joey,  for  example,  is  at  that  age  where 
he's  gotten  a  little  heavy,  and  is  fre- 
quently referred  to  as  'chubby.'  But  An- 
nette comes  to  his  defense,  by  saying,  'He's 
not  chubby,  he's  husky — that's  all.' " 

On  the  other  hand,  Joey,  at  eleven,  is 
at  the  age  where  he  doesn't  need  anybody 
to  fight  his  battles  for  him.  He's  finally  a 
big  Little  Leaguer.  He  is  secretly  proud  of 
his  older  sister's  stardom  on  the  Mickey 
Mouse  Club.  But,  on  the  surface,  he  is  a 
cynic.  His  attitude  is:  "Ah,  dancing — so 
what?  How  many  home  runs  did  you  hit 
last  season?"  To  Joey,  success  is  meas- 
ured by  the  number  of  yards  you  can  hit 
a  ball  from  home  plate.  Annette's  mother 
and  father  think  that's  fine,  because  Joey's 
attitude  helps  keep  Annette's  feet  on  the 
ground,  though  they  are  quick  to  reassure 
you  she  doesn't  need  it.    And  she  doesn't. 

A  more  well-adjusted  teenager  would 
be  hard  to  find.  She  spends  a  steady  three- 
hours-a-day  in  the  Disney  Studio  school, 
and  is  nearly  a  straight-A  student  in  the 
following  subjects:  Algebra,  English, 
Spanish,  and  Social  Studies.  Her  teacher, 
Mrs.  Seamon,  says,  "Annette  is  aware  .  .  . 
she's  sharp  ...  a  serious  student."  An- 
nette's favorite  subject  is  English.  Why? 
"Because,"  she  says,  "it  comes  easy  to  me. 
I  feel  as  though  nouns  and  pronouns  are 
friends  of  mine." 

Among  the  Mouseketeers,  Annette's 
closest  friends  are,  quite  naturally,  the 
boys  and  girls  nearest  her  own  age — 
Doreen,  Sharon,  Bobby,  Lonnie,  and 
Tommy.  Most  of  them  are  in  the  same 
class  (one  teacher  to  ten  pupils).  The 
Mouseketeers  are  much  like  the  famed 
French  Musketeers.  They  share  great 
camaraderie.  Their  idea  of  a  perfect  day 
is  not  missing  a  single  ride  at  the  fun 
zone  at  the  Ocean  pier,  spending  the 
evening  roasting  marshmallows  around 
the  bonfire  at  the  beach,  all  topped  off, 
for  the  girls,  by  a  pajama  party  at  one  of 
the  girls'  homes. 

At  home,  Annette  is  still  the  typical 
teenager.  Her  all-pink  bedroom,  her 
favorite  room  in  the  new  house,  is  her 
domain.  On  the  custom-designed  dresser, 
you're  sure  to  find  copies  of  Photoplay 
and  American  Girl.  Eighty  bottles  of 
perfume  (gifts  to  her  hobby  collection 
from  fans)  rest  on  the  dressing  table. 
Behind  the  door  she  has  the  typical  teen- 
ager's pin-ups:  Elvis  Presley — "He  can 
really  sing  .  .  .  he's  different!"  Tommy 
Sands — "He's  the  new  Presley  .  .  .  isn't  he 
cute!"    Pat     Boone — "He's     married   .   .   . 


(sigh)."  Tab  Hunter;  the  late  Jimmy 
Dean;  Jayne  Mansfield;  Natalie  Wood;  and 
Elizabeth  Taylor.  When  asked  who  she'd 
like  to  be  if  she  could  be  anyone  else, 
Annette  instantly  replies,  "Oh,  Elizabeth 
Taylor!"  More  than  anything  else  in  the 
world,  she  wants  to  be  a  good  actress,  looks 
upon  her  acting  roles  in  "Spin  and  Marty" 
and  "The  Dairy  Story"  as  being  the  high- 
lights of  her  Mouseketeer  career. 

Annette's  schedule  (up  at  6:30,  to  work 
at  eight  A.M.,  home  at  7:30  P.M.)  is  so 
full  filming  the  Mouse  Club  series  that 
she  has  little  chance  to  do  anything  more 
than  keep  her  own  room  picked  up.  "An- 
nette is  not  the  greatest  housekeeper  in 
the  world,"  Mrs.  Funicello  laughs.  "If  I 
ask  her  to  do  the  dishes,  she'll  do  them 
all  right,  because  she  is  obedient,  a  really 
good  girl — but  it  will  take  her  two  hours. 
Honestly,  you've  never  seen  so  many 
other  things  that  have  to  be  done  at  the 
same  time  as  the  dishes — the  radio  has 
to  play  on  a  very  certain  station,  and  the 
dancing  on  television  has  to  be  watched, 
or  she'll  break  off  for  a  minute  to  practice 
a  new  dance  step.  Anything,  it  seems,  to 
keep  from  doing  the  dishes.  But  they  do 
get  done. 

"On  the  other  hand,  Sundays  before 
Mass,  she's  up  early  to  whip  up  the  best 
hotcakes  of  any  of  us.  She  loves  hot- 
cakes  .  .  .  Annette's  not  a  great  cook, 
but  she  can  boil  spaghetti,  broil  a  steak, 
bake  a  potato  and  prepare  hotcakes. 
She's  learned  to  cook  all  the  things  she 
loves  to  eat." 

There  is  a  warm,  loving  aura  among 
the  members  of  the  Funicello  family  in 
their  new  Studio  City  home.  Annette 
loves  both  her  brothers,  Joey,  11,  and 
Mike,  5.  Joey,  though  he's  loathe  to  ad- 
mit it,  loves  his  now-famous  sister,  too. 
He'll  jump  at  any  opportunity  to  play 
miniature  golf  with  her  or  go  bicycling  or 
horseback  riding  (sports  she  excels  in). 
Mike  shows  his  devotion  by  being  the 
greatest  Mickey  Mouse  Club  fan  in  the 
house — he  has  all  the  Mouse  Club  caps, 
shirts  and  records. 

Annette's  father,  Joe  Funicello,  owns  a 
combination  garage-gas  station  on  Ven- 
tura Blvd.  in  Sherman  Oaks.  Joe  has 
lovingly  called  his  daughter  "Dolly"  all 
her  life.  You  can  tell  Annette  loves  her 
father  dearly  by  the  way  she  says 
"Daddy"  and  runs  to  greet  him  when  he 
comes  home  at  night.  Recently,  she  and 
her  mother  surprised  him  on  his  birth- 
day— when  he  came  home  to  find  a  silver- 
gray  Cadillac  parked  in  the  garage.  Still 
amazed,  Joe  says,  "I  was  so  surprised,  I 
thought  I  was  at  the  wrong  house!" 

The  Funicellos  waited  for  two  weeks, 
until  they  could  put  the  top  down,  to  go 
out  for  a  drive  in  Dad's  new  convertible. 
"Mike  was  so  excited,"  Annette  grins,  "he 
almost  got  his  head  caught  as  we  folded 
up  the  canvas  top." 

To  Annette,  the  silver  Cadillac  was 
Cinderella's  own  golden  coach,  the  night 
she  and  her  parents  drove  up  in  front  of 
the  famous  Cocoanut  Grove  to  be  present 
at  the  Foreign  Press  Awards.  She  knew 
her  grandest  dream  had  come  true. 

Then — to  be  treated  like  a  star  herself! 
George  Gobel,  for  instance,  topped  off  the 
magic  evening  by  asking,  "Annette,  may 
I  have  your  autograph?  It's  not  for  me, 
you  know,  but  for  my  son  Gregg.  He's  a 
big  fan  of  yours  ...  in  fact,  we  have  a 
Mickey  Mouse  house.  I  even  buy  Mickey 
Mouse  cat  food  .  .  .  and  we  don't  have  a 
cat!" 

It  was  almost  too  much.  Surrounded 
by  stars,  Annette  Funicello  had  to  pinch 
herself  to  make  sure  she  wasn't  dream- 
ing. But  it  was  no  dream.  Joe's  little 
girl  "Dolly"  is  really  a  star,  a  fourteen- 
year-old  princess  in  Walt  Disney's  magic 
land  of  make-believe. 


nSTOTIHIZSTG 

for  a,  "woman . . . 


cLoes 


Beautiful  eyes  are  your  most  important  feature,  so  bring  out 
all  their  hidden  loveliness  with  Maybelline,  the  safe, 
natural-looking  eye  make-up  preferred  by  women  of  good 
taste  the  world  over.  Maybelline  makes  every  woman's  eyes 
beautiful.  How  very  beautiful,  you'll  never  know  until  you  try 


Maybelline  Mascara,  Solid  or  Cream  Form  . . .  $1.25 
Maybelline  Automatic  Eyebrow  Pencil,  79)!,  Twin  Refills  39*! 
Maybelline  Iridescent  Eye  Shadow  Stick,  $1 
For  complete  eye  beauty,  use  Maybelline  Professional 
Eyelash  Curler,  $1.00,  and  Precision  Tweezers,  29i        jj/ 


Nothing  'Does  So  2WEu.on  To  Make  Eyes  Bes/utif-ul 

GETONAQUIZSHOW 


. . .  and  win! 

How  would  you  like  to  win  $100,000 — 
$64,000  or  even  $5,000  on  one  of  the 
popular  Quiz  programs.  No  such  luck 
you  say.  But  don't  underestimate  your 
chances  of  becoming  a  contestant.  When 
opportunity  knocks  (and  the  important 
thing  is  that  you  can  help  opportunity 
to  knock  if  you  know  how)  you  must  be 
ready. 

Millions  of  dollars  are  given  away  on 
quiz  shows,  yet  nothing  has  been  writ- 
ten to  tell  you  how  to  become  a  con- 
testant. Nothing  has  been  written  to 
give  you  tips  on  how  to  win.  But  now, 
in  his  brand  new  guide,  Joe  Kane,  the 
man  who  writes  the  questions  for  Break 
The  Bank,  tells  you  exactly  what  you 
want  to  know  about  Quiz  shows. 

Here  is  your  opportunity  to  get  expert 
help  from  the  foremost  authority  on  Quiz 
programs!  Here  is  your  chance  to  get 
behind-the-scenes  and  see  exactly  how 
a  Quiz  show  works! 

_        .  .  ,  ,  J  Send   me    postpaid   a    copy    of   HOW   TO  J 

For  instance,  do  you  know  how  contest-  I  win   ON  QUIZ  SHOWS.   I   enclose   50c.  • 

ants  for  Quiz  shows  are  selected?  Do  you  i  3 

know  why  one  person  is  selected  and  why  I  NAME • 

another    one    equally    acceptable    is    re-  I  please  Print  •         y 

jected?    Do   you   know   the   correct   way  •  STREET •         v 

to  fill  out  a  contestant's   questionnaire?  S  5         R 

These  and  hundreds  of  other  questions  5  CITY STATE • 

are  completely  covered  in  this  guide.  !•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 

65 


ONLY  50* 

Be  prepared  to  win 
as  much  money  as 
possible.  Read  chap- 
ter headings  listed 
here  —  and  bear  in 
mind  that  these  are 
only  a  part  of  the  con- 
tents of  this  helpful 
guide.  Whether  you 
attend  Quiz  shows  or 
get  called  on  the  tele- 
phone— this  booklet  is 
packed  with  priceless 
information  for  you. 
Get  your  copy  while 
supply  lasts.  Only  50<f . 


PARTIAL  CONTENTS 

How  to  Obtain  Tick- 
ets •  The  Admission 

•  The  Best  Seats  • 
The  Warm-Up  • 
Your  Appearance  • 
How  Contestants  are 
Selected  •  The  Pre- 
Show  Interview  • 
Why  Certain  Con- 
testants are  Select- 
ed •  City  vs.  Urban 
Contestants  •  How 
To  Fill  Out  the 
Questionnaire  •  The 
Write-In  Contestant 

•  The  Home  Con- 
testant •  The  Tele- 
phone Winner  •  Is 
Stage-fright  Serious 

•  Kind  of  Quiz 
Shows  •  Picking  the 
Category  •  Which 
Quiz  Show  is  Best  • 
Types  of  Questions 

•  How  Questions 
Are  Prepared  • 
Books  To  Study  • 
The  Come-Back 
Contestant  •  When 
To  Stop  •  Who  Sees 
the  Questions  •  The 
Income  Tax  •  The 
Emcee  •  How  Hon- 
est are  Quiz  Shows? 


•  BARTHOLOMEW  HOUSE,  INC.Dept.  WG-7S7  • 
S  205  E.  42  St.,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 


Imel  From  Indiana 


(Continued  from  page  23) 
like  wooden  sticks  stuck  into  small  balls 
of  yarn. 

There  was  another  night  when  Jack  for- 
got to  bring  along  one  of  the  legs  to  his 
marimba.  He'd  remembered  the  hammers 
that  night,  however,  so — while  some  stout 
fella  from  the  audience  held  up  one  end 
of  the  marimba — Jack  knocked  out  his 
numbers.  The  audience  thought  the  whole 
thing  was  pretty  hilarious.  Jack  recalls 
that  it  didn't  seem  so  funny  to  him  at  the 
time.  And  it  certainly  wasn't  amusing  to 
his  agent — who  hadn't  booked  him  as  a 
comedy  act.  His  memory  improved  con- 
siderably after  that  one. 

As  soon  as  he  was  out  of  high  school, 
Jack's  family  started  on  him  to  go  to 
college.  The  prospect  didn't  intrigue  Jack 
greatly,  but  the  persuasive  powers  of  his 
Uncle  Lawrence  were  so  great,  he  couldn't 
think  of  much  of  an  argument.  Jack's 
grandfather,  Dr.  Paddock,  had  once  been 
mayor  of  Portland,  had  run  for  state  rep- 
resentative from  Indiana,  and  had  taught 
anatomy  at  Indiana  University.  Uncle 
Lawrence  had  been  graduated  from  that 
school,  too.  To  carry  on  the  family  tradi- 
tion, everyone  thought  Jack  should  go  to 
Indiana  U.,  pledge  Phi  Gamma  Delta, 
and  get  his  degree.  But,  at  the  last  min- 
ute, Jack  decided  to  go  instead  to  the 
Arthur  Jordan  Conservatory,  which  is 
part  of  Butler  University  in  Indianapolis. 

Jack  had  been  at  the  conservatory  only 
nine  weeks  when  Horace  Heidt  came  into 
the  area,  and  held  auditions  for  his 
"Youth  Opportunity"  shows.  Jack  audi- 
tioned, and  was  offered  a  berth  with  the 
traveling  company.  Jack  felt  he'd  learn 
faster  on  the  job  than  in  school.  His 
parents  backed  him  up  and  he  quit  school. 

This  tour  stretched  into  two  years,  and 
included  one-night  stands  in  five  or  six 
towns  in  each  of  the  forty-eight  states. 
As  Jack  had  anticipated,  this  rugged  tour- 
ing proved  invaluable  as  training.  Besides, 
it  proved  to  him  he'd  chosen  the  right 
profession.  "Unless  you  loved  your  work," 
he  laughs  now,  "you  couldn't  possibly 
stand  the  strain  of  a  two-year  tour  made 
up  of  one-night  stands.  But,  even  after 
two  years  of  it,  I  was  as  full  of  enthusiasm 
about  dancing  and  playing  the  marimba 
as  I  had  been  the  day  the  tour  started!" 

On  November  29,  1951,  having  reached 
the  advanced  age  of  nineteen,  Jack  was 
married  to  Norma  Denney,  the  pert  Port- 
land miss,  one  year  his  junior,  he'd  been 
courting  for  five  years.  He  remembers  the 
first  time  he  ever  laid  eyes  on  her — as 
she  rode  the  ferris  wheel  at  the  Jay 
County  Fairgrounds  the  summer  she  was 
thirteen.  They  had  gone  to  different  gram- 
mar schools,  and  so  had  never  met  before. 
Happily,  Portland  had  only  one  junior 
high  school,  and  one  senior  high  school — 
which  simplified  things  considerably.  Of 
course  Jack  was  in  the  school  band,  and 
Norma  "played  at"  the  drums.  (She  ad- 
mits to  having  had  no  particular  talent, 
except  for  concealing  her  lack  of  talent 
from  the  band  director.)  There  were  the 
usual  trips  to  out-of-town  football  games, 
as  well  as  local  games,  concerts,  rehears- 
als. After  each  of  these,  no  one  ever 
bothered  to  ask  to  escort  Norma  home — 
everyone  knew  Jack  would  be  doing  that. 
Although  he  can't  recall  ever  "walking" 
her  home,  he  remembers  riding  her  home 
on  the  handle-bars  of  his  bike.  After  all, 
he  points  out,  she  lived  "clear  across 
T  town" — a  distance  of  about  two  miles  in 
v  Portland — and  he  claims  he  was  too  lazy 
R  for  the  walking-home  routine.  Later,  as 
soon  as  he  turned  sixteen  and  could  get 
his  driver's  license,  he'd  wangle  the  fam- 
66 


ily  car.  Even  that  great  opportunity  was 
not  without  its  drawbacks.  Pop  Imel  got 
a  new  car  every  year,  and  was  forever 
warning  Jack:  "Be  careful  you  don't 
scratch  the  paint  job!" 

Finally,  Jack  managed  to  attain  the  ex- 
alted status  of  a  Man  Who  Owns  a  Car. 
A  convertible  only  slightly  younger  than 
Jack  himself,  it  was  immediately  dubbed 
"The  Yellow  Peril."  "I  didn't  even  have 
to  buy  it  on  time,"  Jack  remembers,  "but 
that  was  no  particular  accomplishment. 
For  what  it  cost,  anyone  could  have  paid 
cash!"  There  were  no  rear  seats,  but  Coke 
cases  served  as  well.  And  it  was  with 
genuine  regret  that  Jack  traded  "The  Yel- 
low Peril"  in,  several  years  later,  on  a 
somewhat  more  recent  model. 

Having  changed  his  status  from  single 
to  married  in  November,  1951,  Jack  made 
another  abrupt  change  only  two  months 
later,  this  time  from  civilian  to  sailor.  He 
was  sent  off  to  boot  camp  at  Great  Lakes 
Naval  Training  Camp,  on  the  shore  of 
Lake  Michigan  north  of  Chicago. 

Eddie  Peabody,  then  a  commander  at 
Great  Lakes,  was  holding  auditions  for 
Navy  personnel  for  entertainment  units. 
Jack  played  for  him,  and  then — for  the 
next  year  and  a  half — was  entertaining 
recruits  as  they  passed  through  Great 
Lakes.  Meanwhile,  Norma  found  an  apart- 
ment in  near-by  Waukegan,  and  Jack 
was  able  to  live  at  home.  Their  first  son, 
Greg,  was  born  at  the  Great  Lakes  Naval 
Hospital  in  1953. 

On  September  1,  1953,  Jack  was  trans- 
ferred from  Great  Lakes  to  the  Navy 
School  of  Music  in  Washington,  D.  C. 
There,  in  the  typical  stepped -up  fashion 
of  the  armed  forces,  he  compressed  a 
year's  musical  training  into  a  six-months' 
course.  He  studied  theory,  harmony,  re- 
hearsed with  the  concert  and  dance  bands, 
and  had  private  instruction  on  the  ma- 
rimba. He'd  report  at  school  at  eight 
o'clock  each  morning,  and  have  classes 
until  4:30  each  afternoon,  five  days  a 
week.  Then — unless  it  was  his  turn  to 
stand  watch — he'd  have  his  weekends  free 
to  join  Norma  and  Greg  at  their  apart- 
ment in  suburban  Anacostia. 

It  was  while  he  was  in  Washington  that 
Jack  met  Alex  Sheftell,  who  was  later  to 
become  his  manager.  A  group  of  Navy 
musicians  were  playing  a  benefit  at  a 
suburban  country  club  and  Sheftell,  one 
of  the  guests,  heard  Jack  play  and  became 
interested.  Sheftell  had  never  managed 
any  talent  before,  and  Jack  admits  now 
that  he  was  frankly  dubious  about  Alex's 
ability  to  do  all  the  things  he  promised. 
He  need  not  have  worried — Alex  had  a 
wide  acquaintance  in  show  business,  and 
whatever  he  promised,  he  delivered. 

First,  there  was  an  audition  for  Dennis 
James'  television  show,  Chance  Of  A  Life- 
time. By  a  curious  coincidence,  the  man 
hearing  the  auditions  was  Frank  Reeves, 
who  had  also  conducted  the  Horace  Heidt 
auditions  several  years  before  when  Jack 
appeared  there. 

Subsequently,  Jack  appeared  on  Chance 
Of  A  Lifetime  on  three  different  occasions. 
He  lost  out  the  first  two  tries,  then  won 
on  his  third  appearance.  Being  in  the 
service,  he  couldn't  accept  part  of  the 
prize — engagements  at  the  Moulin  Rouge 
and  the  Latin  Quarter.  But  he  could  and 
did  take  the  thousand  dollars  which  went 
along  with  first  prize.  Looking  back  on  it 
now,  he  realizes  that  those  three  appear- 
ances brought  him  infinitely  more  than 
just  that  thousand. 

"On  the  shows  I  did  when  I  was  still 
in  high  school,  and  even  the  appearances 
on  the  road  with  Horace  Heidt,"  he  ex- 


plains, "I  had  only  two  or  three  routines, 
and  never  had  to  bother  to  create  more. 
But,  for  those  Chance  Of  A  Lifetime 
shows,  which  were  competitions,  I  saw 
the  need  to  work  up  ideas  which  were 
more  than  just  good — ideas  which  would 
win.  I'd  work  five  and  six  hours  a  day 
on  a  new  routine.  After  I'd  finally  won, 
I  realized  I'd  improved  my  act  at  least 
eighty  percent,  and  had  stimulated  my 
thinking  to  the  degree  that  ideas  came 
more  easily  when  I  needed  them.  I'd 
jolted  myself  out  of  a  rut — and,  without 
that  jolt,  I'd  probably  never  have  got 
where  I  am  now!" 

His  training  completed  at  the  Navy 
Music  School,  Jack  was  transferred  to 
San  Diego,  California,  where  he  was  at- 
tached to  the  Admiral's  Cruiser  and  De- 
stroyer band.  In  typical  Navy-wife  fash- 
ion, Norma  trailed  after  him,  and  they 
were  soon  settled  in  an  apartment  in 
San  Diego.  Their  second  child,  a  daugh- 
ter, Debbie,  was  born  in  Balboa  Hospital 
in  San  Diego. 

In  1955,  Jack  was  first-place  winner  in 
an  all-Navy  talent  contest,  pitted  against 
acts  from  all  the  naval  districts  in  the 
world.  His  award  was  an  appearance  on 
Ed  Sullivan's  all-Navy  television  show. 
Again  in  1956,  Jack  won  a  spot  on  Sulli- 
van's show,  this  time  as  third-prize  winner 
of  the  annual  Navy  talent  contest. 

As  the  end  of  his  tour  of  duty  came  into 
sight,  Jack  was  faced  with  a  terrific  de- 
cision. He  had  been  offered  a  spot  in  the 
Navy  Band  at  Washington,  D.  C.  This 
would  mean  that  he  and  Norma  would 
be  permanently  based  in  Washington,  that 
he'd  have  a  comfortable  salary,  and  be 
eligible  to  retire,  at  thirty-eight,  on  a 
pension  of  three  hundred  dollars  a  month. 
He  could  take  this,  and  be  reasonably 
secure  for  the  rest  of  his  life.  Or  he  could 
strike  out  on  his  own,  and  try  for  some- 
thing more  than  just  security.  Jack  de- 
cided to  take  the  chance. 

He  made  a  try,  first,  for  an  audition 
with  the  Welk  organization.  He  sent  along 
a  record  of  his  marimba  work,  and  was 
summoned  to  the  Aragon  ballroom  to  do 
his  stuff  in  person.  Of  the  forty-five  en- 
tertainers who  had  been  spotlighted  on 
Welk's  Top  Tunes  And  New  Talent  since 
the  show's  debut,  Jack  was  the  first  to 
impress  Welk  to  the  extent  that  the  band- 
leader wanted  to  add  him  to  the  estab- 
lished troupe. 

Today,  Lawrence  Welk  says,  "I  think 
Jack  Imel  is  a  fine  young  man  and  a 
credit  to  our  orchestra.  He's  a  hard 
worker,  lends  variety  to  our  show,  and 
has  unlimited  talent."  Those  behind  the 
scenes  say  that  Welk  is  particularly  im- 
pressed by  Jack's  down-to-earth  approach 
to  his  music.  Although  he's  been  pound- 
ing away  on  the  marimba  for  ten  years, 
he  still  practices  daily  as  if  he  were  a 
newcomer  to  the  instrument.  When  the 
band  rehearses  at  the  Aragon  ballroom 
on  Wednesdays,  Jack  has  been  known 
to  take  his  marimba  off  somewhere,  shut 
the  door,  and  get  in  some  private  practice. 

Two  days  before  his  Navy  duty  officially 
ended,  Jack  signed  with  the  Welk  show. 
It's  a  one-year  contract — officially.  But  it's 
a  well-known  fact  that  the  Welk  players 
have  a  way  of  sticking  around  as  long 
as  they  indicate  by  their  enthusiasm  that 
they  want  the  job. 

The  first  Welk  show  on  which  Jack  ap- 
peared created  a  mild  sensation  back  in 
Portland,  Indiana.  Jack  has  enough  rela- 
tives in  that  area  to  make  up  a  respectable 
audience,  all  by  themselves.  His  dad, 
"Hap"  Imel,  has  a  grocery  store  and  meat 
market   on   Main    Street,   just   across   the 


square  from  the  court  house.  His  Uncle 
Jack  is  a  partner  in  the  store,  his  Uncle 
Tom  is  head  meat-cutter  for  the  market, 
and  his  Uncle  Roy  is  in  charge  of  the 
store's  deliveries.  It's  a  cozy,  family-type 
arrangement  all  the  way  around.  Jack's 
Uncle  Charlie  is  a  partner  with  Hap 
on  the  farm  near  Portland,  where  much 
of  the  livestock  for  the  Imel  Brothers 
Market  is  raised  and  butchered. 

Jack's  Aunt  Lela  owns  the  block  of  real 
estate  where  the  store  is  located,  and 
the  wholesale  grocery  house  where  Imel 
Brothers  buy  some  of  their  stock.  Uncle 
George  and  Uncle  Bill  are  retired,  and 
live  there  in  Portland.  Uncle  Harry  is  a 
grain  broker  in  Muscatine,  Iowa,  and 
Aunt  Pearl  Trout  lives  in  West  Palm 
Beach,  Florida,  where  her  husband  is  a 
barber.  The  clan  is  large,  and  devoted  to 
following  Jack's  career. 

"When  I  signed  for  the  Welk  show," 
Jack  recalls,  "there  was  a  big  story  in  the 
Portland  Commercial  Review  about  it, 
with  my  picture  and  everything.  But  I 
think  the  folks  in  Portland  must  be  pretty 
tired  of  reading  about  'that  Imel  boy'  by 
now.  Every  time  anything  has  happened 
to  me  in  the  last  ten  years,  one  or  an- 
other of  my  relatives  would  'just  happen 
to  mention  it'  to  someone  at  the  paper. 

"They  sure  are  faithful  about  watching 
me  on  the  Welk  show,  I've  got  that  to  say 
for  them!  I  call  home  every  week,  as  soon 
as  the  show  is  over.  Generally,  I  put  in  a 
person-to-person  call  to  Mom.  And  al- 
most always  I  find  her  over  at  Aunt  Lela's 
house — Aunt  Lela's  television  set  works 
better  than  some  of  the  others." 

After  signing  with  the  Welk  group,  Jack 
and  Norma  Imel  moved  to  a  pleasant 
apartment  in  suburban  North  Hollywood, 
only  minutes  (via  the  freeway)  from 
Hollywood's  ABC  studios,  where  Welk 
shows  are  staged.  They  hardly  had  a 
chance  to  unpack,  however,  before  Norma 
was  off  to  the  hospital  again.  This  time 
she  brought  home  another  son:  Lawrence 
Jack,  born  March  15.  That  Lawrence  is 
not  for  Mr.  Welk,  however,  but  for  Jack's 
grandfather  and  uncle — and  for  Jack  him- 
self. "I  don't  think  I've  ever  mentioned 
it  to  Mr.  Welk,"  Jack  grins,  "but  my  first 
name  is  Lawrence,  too." 

There  was  one  slight  disappointment 
connected  with  young  Jackie's  birth,  so 
far  as  Jack  was  concerned.  When  Greg 
and  Debbie  were  born,  in  Navy  hospitals, 
regulations  did  not  permit  Jack  to  be  with 
Norma  after  she  entered  the  hospital. 
Having  attained  civilian  status  again,  Jack 
anticipated  that  this  time  he'd  get  a  chance 
to  see  what  the  expectant  father  goes 
through  in  the  waiting  room  of  a  mater- 
nity ward. 

So  what  happens?  Three  days  before 
the  baby  arrived,  Jack  burst  forth  in  a 
glorious  array  of  polka-dots,  which  the 
doctor  promptly  diagnosed  as  chicken- 
pox.  Norma,  happily,  had  got  that  sort  of 
thing  out  of  the  way  years  ago.  But  Jack 
was  not  only  denied  the  chance  to  go  to 
the  hospital  with  Norma — he  was  also 
assured  of  a  fair  amount  of  ribbing  from 
the  Welk  gang,  who  felt  somehow  that 
chicken-pox  is  not  exactly  a  dignified 
affliction  for  an  adult. 

For  at  least  one  person,  however,  that 
bout  with  the  chicken  pox  was  a  silver- 
lined  cloud.  When  Lawrence  Welk  called 
to  inquire  about  the  state  of  Jack's  health, 
Jack  admitted  that  he  wasn't  feeling  too 
bad.  But  he  looked  a  mess,  he  added, 
and  had  been  forbidden  by  the  doctor  to 
return  to  work  for  a  week. 

"Good!"  Welk  replied  cheerfully.  "Now 
you  can  get  in  a  solid  week  of  practicing!" 

No  "doctor's  orders"  ever  reached  a 
more  willing  "patient"  than  young  Jack 
Imel,  who  began  practicing  'way  back 
home  in  Indiana — and  has  never  stopped. 


NEW! 


i 


Star 
Candids 


We've  added  wms  brand 
new  stars  and  brand  new  pic- 
tures starting  with  #248. 
Check  the  lift  below  for  your 
favorite*.  All  handsome  4  x  S 
photos,  on  glossy  stock,  just 
right  for  framing.  Send  your 
order  today. 


CANDIDS 


1.  Lan a  Turner 

2.  Betty  Grable 

3.  Ava  Gardner 

5.  Alan  Ladd 

6.  Tyrone  Power 

7.  Gregory  Peck 
9.  Esther  Williams 

11.  Elisabeth  Taylor 

14.  Cornel  Wilde 

15.  Frank  Sinatra 

18.  Rory  Calhoun 

19.  Peter  Lawford 

21.  Bob  Mitch um 

22.  Burt  Lancaster 

23.  Bing  Crosby 
25.  Dale  Evans 
27.  June  A  Hyson 

33.  Gene  Autry 

34.  Roy  Rogers 

35.  Sunset  Carson 

50.  Diana  Lynn 

51.  Doris  Day 

52.  Montgomery  Clift 

53.  Richard  Widmark 

56.  Perry  Co  mo 

57.  Bill  Holden 

66.  Gordon  MacRae 

67.  Ann  Blyth 

68.  Jeanne  Grain 

69.  Jane  Russell 
74.  John  Wayne 
78.  Audie  Murphy 
84.  Janet  Leigh 
86.  Farley  Granger 

91.  John  Derek 

92.  Guy  Madison 
94.  Mario  Lanza 
103.  Scott  Brady 

105.  Vic  Damone 

106.  Shelley  Winters 

107.  Richard  Todd 


109.  Dean  Martin 

110.  Jerry  Lewis 
112.  Susan  Hayward 
117.  Terry  Moore 
121.  Teny  Curtis 
124.  Gail  Davis 

127.  Piper  Laurie 

128.  Debbie  Reynolds 

135.  Jeff  Chandler 

136.  Rock  Hudson 

137.  Stewart  Granger 

139.  Debra  Paget 

140.  Dale  Robertson 

141.  Marilyn  Monroe 

142.  Leslie  Caron 

143.  Pier  Angeli 

144.  Mitzi  Gaynor 

145.  Marlon  Brando 

146.  Aldo  Ray 

147.  Tab  Hunter 

148.  Robert  Wagner 

149.  Russ  Tamblyn 

150.  Jeff  Hunter 
152.  Marge  and  Gow- 

er  Champion 

174.  Rita  Gam 

175.  Charlton  Heston 

176.  Steve  Cochran 

177.  Richard  Burton 

179.  Julius  La  Rosa 

180.  Lucille  Ball 
182.  Jack  Webb 
185.  Richard  Egan 
187.  Jeff  Richards 

190.  Pat  Crowley 

191.  Robert  Taylor 

192.  Jean  Simmons 
194.  Audrey  Hepburn 
198.  Gale  Storm 
202.  George  Nader 


205.  Ann  Sothern 
207.  Eddie  Fisher 
209.  Liberace 

211.  Bob  Francis 

212.  Grace  Kelly 

213.  James  Dean 

214.  Sheree  North 

215.  Kim  Novak 

216.  Richard  Davalos 

218.  Eva  Marie  Saint 

219.  Natalie  Wood 

220.  Dewey  Martin 

221.  Joan  Collins 

222.  Jayne  Mansfield 

223.  Sal  Mineo 

224.  Shirlev  Jones 

225.  Elvis  Presley 

226.  Victoria  Shaw 

227.  Tony  Perkins 

228.  Clint  Walker 

229.  Pat  Boone 

230.  Paul  Newman 

231.  Don  Murray 

232.  Don  Cherry 

233.  Pat  Wayne 

234.  Carroll  Baker 

235.  Anita  Ekberg 

236.  Corey  AUen 


237.  Dana  Wynter 

238.  Diana  Dors 

239.  Judy  Busch 

240.  Patti  Page 

241.  Lawrence  Welk 

242.  Alice  Lon 

243.  Larry  Dean 

244.  Buddy  Merrill 

245.  Hugh  O'Brlae 

246.  Jim  Araess 

247.  Sanford  Clark 

248.  Vera  Miles 

249.  John  Saxon 

250.  Dean  Stockwell 

251.  Diane  Jergens 

252.  Warren  Berlinger 

253.  James  MacArthur 

254.  Nick  Adams 

255.  John  Kerr 

256.  Harry  Belafonte 

257.  Jim  Lowe 

258.  Luana  Patten 

259.  Dennis  Hopper 

260.  Tom  Tryon 

261.  Tommy  Sands 

262.  Will  Hutchins 

263.  James  Darren 


|    WORLD  WIDE,  DEPT.WG-7 
112  Main  St..  Ossining,  N.  Y. 

'     I  enclose  $ for  candid 

I     pictures  of  my  favorite  stars  and  have  circled 
the  numbers  of  the  ones  you  are  to  send  me 
I     by  return  mail. 


FILL    IN    AND    MAIL 
COUPON  TODAY! 


I 
I 
I 
I 
7   l 


NAME 

STREET 

CITY 

ZONE STATE v 

Fill  out  and  mail  coupon  today.    Send  cash 
or  money  order.  12  pictures  for  $1;  ©  for  50c 

67 


(Continued  from  page  50) 
manages  his  farflung  framework  with  the 
easy  grace  of  an  ambling  lion— but  he 
maintains  that  he  is  poorly  coordinated 
physically.  .  .  .  He  married  a  beautiful 
and  talented  girl — yet  he  insists  that  he 
has  always  been  afraid  of  "wimmin."  .  .  . 
He's  a  master  of  hilarity — guaranteed  to 
roll  ticket-purchasers  for  the  Warner 
Bros,  film  version  of  "No  Time  for  Ser- 
geants" in  the  aisles — but  his  first  screen 
role,  enacted  for  Elia  Kazan's  "A  Face 
in  the  Crowd,"  is  as  "a  guy  that  every- 
body said  would  make  me  hate  myself  be- 
fore the  picture  was  over." 

The  graph  of  his  career  would  show  a 
jet  trail  upward,  as  a  result  of  his  be- 
havior as  the  Georgia  hillbilly  who  de- 
moralized the  U.S.  Armed  Forces  in  "No 
Time  for  Sergeants"  on  Broadway — and 
he's  even  formed  his  own  production  com- 
pany, Manteo  Productions  (named  for  his 
home  town  in  North  Carolina) — but  it's 
obvious  he  doesn't  consider  himself  a 
screen  star  yet.  .  .  .  He's  under  contract 
to  Capitol  Records- — who  will  release  four 
sides  from  "A  Face  in  the  Crowd"  in  July 
— but  Andy  still  cannot  think  of  himself 
as  a  platter  paragon.  He  says,  "Sometime, 
I  guess,  I'll  make  a  record  I  like,  maybe." 
(The  above  spelling  is  correct.  But,  as 
Andy  speaks  the  sentence,  it  comes  out 
like  this:  "Some-torn,  ah  gay-us,  ah'll 
make  a  reck-aud  ah  lak,  mebbe.") 

This  list  of  contrasting  elements,  existing 
gene  by  chromosome  in  the  Griffith  make- 
up, could  be  extended  for  some  distance. 
But  the  answer  at  the  end  of  the  column, 
whether  long  drawn  or  cut  short,  would 
be  the  same:  Andy's  essential  ingredients 
make   up   a   fascinating   individual. 

Born  in  a  North  Carolina  city  with  the 
unlikely  name  of  Mount  Airy,  Andy  man- 
aged to  get  himself  through  high  school 
undamaged,  although  he  played  Sousa- 
phone  and  slide  trombone  in  the  school 
band.  (Not  simultaneously.)  He  also  sang 
bass  in  the  school  choruses,  and  dreamed 
of  preparing  himself  for  a  career  in  opera. 
One  method  of  preparation  was  to  catch 
repeated  performances  of  Ezio  Pinza  in 
the  picture,  "A  Night  at  Carnegie  Hall," 
singing  the  great  operatic  role  of  Boris 
Godunov.  That,  thought  baritone-basso 
Andrew  Griffith,  is  for  me. 

After  high-school  days,  Andy  continued 
his  education  at  the  University  of  North 
Carolina,  where  he  majored  in  music,  in- 
evitably encountering  such  cultural  sacred 
cows  as  "Hamlet,"  "Romeo  and  Juliet," 
the  "Swan  Lake"  ballet,  and  "Carmen." 
Yet,  as  he  became  familiar  with  story 
and/or  music,  the  clown  side  of  his  sin- 
cere, almost  solemn  nature  began  to  take 
liberties  with  the  classics.  Occasionally,  he 
undertook  to  "explain"  one  of  the  stories 
— in  a  sorghum  accent. 

Actually,  Andy  didn't  think  much  of 
his  lampoonery,  although  it  seemed  to  oth- 
ers to  be  a  rare  talent.  In  his  opinion, 
it  was  merely  college  hi  jinks.  Yet,  while 
he  was  teaching  at  Goldsboro  High  School, 
Andy  decided  to  test  himself  by  under- 
taking the  study  of  drama  with  Ainslee 
Pryor,  who  was  a  director  of  the  Raleigh 
Little  Theater.  Andy  told  himself  he  was 
doing  it — not  in  hopes  of  a  theatrical  ca- 
reer— but  because  he  felt  that  any  pointers 
he  could  pick  up  from  Mr.  Pryor  would 
be  useful  when,  as  a  harried  music  prof, 
he  found  himself  serving  as  referee  in  an 
assault  upon  Gilbert  &  Sullivan  by  teen- 
T    age  glee  clubs. 

v        Came  a  day,  one  spring,  when  the  Cha- 
R    pel  Hill  Choral  was  preparing  a  presen- 
tation of  Haydn's  "The  Seasons,"  and  was 
auditioning  singers.  Someone  asked  Andy, 

Do 


Hillbilly  Hero 

"Have  you  heard  Bobby  Edwards  sing? 
Now  there's  a  voice!" 

Andy  thought  it  over  for  a  moment, 
then  admitted,  "I  don't  know  him.  I  don't 
know  any  Bobby  Edwards." 

"You  really  don't  know  Bobby  Ed- 
wards," chuckled  Andy's  informant.  "The 
'Bobby'  is  short  for  'Barbara,'  and  she's 
quite  a  gal." 

"What's  her  voice?"  Andy  wanted  to 
know,  refusing  to  be  conned  into  admira- 
tion sight  unseen  and  sound  unheard.  He 
was  told  that  Barbara's  voice  was  a  dra- 
matic soprano,  and  that  she  had  taken  her 
M.B.  degree  from  Converse  College  at 
Spartanburg,   South   Carolina. 

"From  then  on,  it  developed  like  a  1930 
movie,"  admits  Andy. 

Like  this:  One  afternoon,  Andy  and  Carl 
Perry  (tenor)  were  loitering  around  the 
rehearsal  hall  when  Carl  announced  be- 
latedly, "By  the  way,  there  goes  Bobby 
Edwards."  All  that  was  to  be  seen  was  a 
pair  of  shapely  underpinnings  (taking 
their  owner  rapidly  away),  a  matching 
sweater  and  skirt  (trim),  and  a  mass  of 
shining  brown  hair  worn  in  a  long  bob. 
Naturally,  Andy  remembered  the  hair. 

He  knew  that  he  was  going  to  remem- 
ber the  voice,  as  well — probably  forever — 
when  he  heard  her  sing  in  rehearsal  a  few 
days  later.  With  all  speed — taking  into 
consideration  a  certain  Dixie  deliberation 
and  a  natural  reticence — Andy  asked  Bar- 
bara Edwards  to  be  his  guest  at  a  coffee 
break.  This  led  to  other  coffee  breaks,  to 
dinner,  to  moonlight  conferences,  to  love. 

In  due  course,  Andy  decided  to  spend 
his  summers  on  Roanoke  Island,  appear- 
ing in  Paul  Green's  "The  Lost  Colony," 
traditional  presentation  of  the  tragedy  of 
Sir  Walter  Raleigh's  colonization  attempt. 
In  the  midst  of  this  occupation,  Andy 
signed  a  teaching  contract  for  the  ensuing 
year.  Abruptly,  it  seemed  a  fine  idea  to 
get  married.  On  a  summer's  Saturday 
morning,  Andy  and  Barbara  met  at  Nor- 
folk and  selected  her  wedding  gown — a 
rust  silk  afternoon  frock  with  matching 
hat,  shoes,  and  gloves.  For  Andy,  they 
selected  the  traditional  navy  blue. 

Because  Andy  had  an  evening  off,  on 
Mondays,  the  ceremony  was  celebrated  at 
eleven  o'clock  on  the  morning  of  August 
22,  1949.  There  was  no  problem  of  church 
or  sect:  Barbara  is  Baptist,  Andy  is  Mor- 
avian— so,  inevitably,  the  rites  were  per- 
formed by  a  Methodist  minister  in  the 
only  sanctuary  available  on  short  notice, 
the  Episcopal  Church.  The  octet  from 
Westminster  Choir  sang,  and  Sal  Razassi 
played  "Ave  Maria"  on  his  vibraharp.  As 
Andy  recalls  it:  "You  wouldn't  expect  a 
vibraharp  to  be  effective — or  maybe  even 
ecclesiastical — but  I've  never  heard  the 
'Ave  Maria'  played  with  greater  solemn- 
ity. It  was  the  sort  of  thing  you  can  never 
forget." 

The  ensuing  three  years  were  both 
blissful  and  troubled.  Blissful,  as  the  early 
years  of  a  highly  compatible  marriage 
must  always  be.  Troubled,  because  Andy 
felt,  in  the  depths  of  his  conscientious 
soul,  that  he  was  not  making  a  success  of 
teaching  high-school  music.  "It  takes 
talent  to  be  a  good  teacher,"  he  says, 
respect  in  his  tone.  "I  knew  my  subject, 
but  I  couldn't  seem  to  pass  on  my  knowl- 
edge. There  were  some  gifted  kids  in  my 
classes,  and  I  felt  they  were  entitled  to  the 
best  possible  instruction.  Well,  I  didn't 
feel  I  was  the  best  possible  instructor." 

Day  after  day,  month  after  month,  he 
and  Barbara  discussed  their  quandary.  At 
length  they  hit  upon  an  idea:  Why  not 
go  into  business  for  themselves,  capital- 
izing on  their  singing  ability?  Why  not 
put  to   use   their  excellent   training,   plus 


Andy's  flair  for  comedy?  There  was  a 
market:  Throughout  the  South  there  were 
civic  groups  needing  an  act  or  two  to  en- 
liven a  social  evening.  Why  not  provide 
it? 

They  borrowed  a  thousand  dollars,  made 
a  four-hundred-dollar  down  payment  on 
a  station  wagon,  and  moved  to  a  house 
having  a  room  remote  enough  from  neigh- 
bors to  make  rehearsal  possible  without 
arousing  local  malice.  With  their  remain- 
ing capital,  they  invested  in  five  hundred 
brochures,  on  the  cover  of  which  appeared 
the  legend:  "Unique  Entertainment  by 
Barbara  and  Andy  Griffith." 

Their  first  professional  appearance  was 
before  the  Ashboro,  North  Carolina  Rotary 
Club  on  October  28,  1952,  and  consisted 
of  art  songs  by  Barbara,  comic  monologues 
by  Andy.  The  take  was  seventy-five 
dollars,  of  which  fifteen  went  to  their 
accompanist. 

T  avorable  word  of  Griffith-type  enter- 
tainment spread.  Andy's  proficiency  on  the 
guitar  increased  and  his  repertoire  of 
monologues  was  expanded.  In  a  hillbilly 
accent  that  could  have  been  cut  only  with 
a  quart  of  mountain  dew,  Andy  explained 
to  his  audiences— much  as  he  had  done  in 
college — the  highly  involved  plots  of  such 
venerable  classics  as  "Romeo  and  Juliet," 
"Carmen,"  the  "Swan  Lake"  ballet,  the 
art  of  playing  football,  and  "Hamlet." 

After  some  eighteen  months  of  guitar 
barn-storming,  Andy  was  placed  under 
contract  by  Capitol  Records  and  waxed 
his  first  glorious  lampoon,  a  devastating 
exposition  entitled  "What  It  Was — Was 
Football."  More  than  eight  hundred  thou- 
sand customers  applauded  his  effort  by 
buying  the  disc  and  wearing  it  smooth. 

That  success  ended  Andy's  trips  to 
homebody  gatherings  and  started  him 
zooming  on  the  night-club  circuit.  Such  a 
move  was  supposed  to  represent  a  rung 
upward  on  the  ladder  of  success,  but 
there  were  times  when  Andy  was  con- 
vinced that  it  was  more  like  being  put 
through  the  wringer. 

He  was  spotted  on  The  Ed  Sullivan  Show 
and,  according  to  Andy,  "I  was  a  bomb. 
Whoo-eeee.  I  laid  a  real  bad  egg."  Anal- 
ysis of  his  failure  to  win  friends  and  in- 
fluence applause  on  the  Sullivan  show  has 
turned  up  many  possibilities.  Perhaps  the 
Sullivan  studio  audience  wasn't  adequate- 
ly hip  to  Shakespeare  to  appreciate  a 
parody.  Or  perhaps  it  was  so  conservative 
that  it  resented  the  Griffith  liberties  taken 
with  monuments  of  English  literature. 
More  reasonable  is  the  suspicion  that, 
when  Andy  Griffith — a  handsome,  blue- 
eyed,  tousle-headed  hunk  of  personality 
in  the  super-Tab-Hunter  class — ambled 
onto  the  stage,  he  was  expected  to  render 
some  maple-sugar  love  song.  No  one  was 
prepared  for  a  murderously  witty  parody 
delivered  in  a  backwoods  drawl. 

There  were  other  frustrations,  other 
problems.  In  Birmingham,  Alabama,  one 
evening,  a  portly  lady — turned  100-proof 
sentimental  by  certain  beverages — made 
her  way  to  the  stage,  shaking  her  fist  and 
announcing  in  the  dialect  that  Andy  was 
using,  "I  just  wanna  tell  you  ...  I  just 
wanna  shay.  .  .  ."  She  took  up  a  position 
on  the  steps,  and  Andy  went  into  a  revival 
song,  a  foot-stomper  called  "In  the  Pines," 
to — well,    change   the    subject. 

Sometimes  the  frustrations  of  show 
business  were  funny  rather  than  painful. 
On  one  occasion,  Andy  found  himself 
billed  with  a  striptease  act.  There  was  the 
news  on  the  marquee:  "9 — Beautiful  Girls 
—9." 

By  that  time,  Andy  had  acquired  a 
following    of    youngsters,    some    of    high- 


school  age — whose  mortal  combat  with 
English  Lit  courses  had  given  Andy  hero 
status  because  of  his  jousts  with  the 
classics — and  some  even  younger,  who 
merely  enjoyed  guitar,  dialect,  and  the 
sense  of  fun  intrinsic  in  Andy's  act. 

Andy  went  to  the  management,  diffi- 
dently, and  explained  that  he  couldn't  ap- 
pear with  strippers.  Everybody  had  to 
make  a  living  in  accordance  with  his  talent 
and  energy,  he  conceded,  but  his  con- 
science wouldn't  permit  him  to  attract 
youngsters  to  entertainment  that  would 
not  be  approved  (although  possibly  in- 
dulged in)  by  their  elders.  "I  was  real 
embarrassed,"  Andy  remembers. 

His  protests  were  forwarded  to  his  book- 
ing agent,  and  thereafter  Andy  has  found 
himself  sharing  the  boards  only  twice 
with  15 — Beautiful  Girls — 15.  Friends  say 
that  nothing  is  ever  lost  on  Mr.  Griffith: 
In  the  midst  of  a  trusted  and  sophisti- 
cated group,  Andy  has  been  known  to 
provide  a  quakingly  funny  travesty  of 
the  striptease  without  removing  so  much 
as  his  sports  coat. 

When  Andy  read  Mac  Hyman's  "No 
Time  for  Sergeants,"  he  got  in  touch  with 
Hyman  to  request  permission  to  incorpo- 
rate some  of  the  more  hilarious  passages 
in  his  night-club  act.  Inevitably,  this  rep- 
resented one  of  those  happy  juxta- 
positions of  player,  period,  and  vehicle. 
Andy  Griffith  was  the  perfect  person  to 
bring  to  life  the  Georgia  hillbilly,  and  the 
triple  arts  of  stage,  film  and  TV  could 
well  agree  that  "No  Time  for  Sergeants" 
was  a  vehicle  perfect  for  all  three. 

Oddly  enough,  Andy  seemed  to  fit  into 
many  other  garments  in  addition  to  khaki. 
Even  before  "Sergeants"  was  launched, 
an  actor  named  Robert  Armstrong  listened 
one  night  to  a  lament  from  Elia  Kazan. 
Where,  Mr.  Kazan  wondered,  could  he 
find  a  big,  blond,  blustering  hillbilly — 
with  sensitivity — to  star  in  a  segment  from 
Budd  Schulberg's  novel,  "Faces  in  a 
Crowd"?  (The  story  was  titled  originally 
"Your  Arkansas  Traveler,"  but  its  film 
version  was  to  be  called  "A  Face  in  the 
Crowd.") 

"Easy,"  said  Mr  Armstrong.  "Andy  Grif- 
fith could  do  it." 

Which  brings  us  full  circle  to  Andy's 
first  picture,  to  be  followed  by  "Ser- 
geants," to  be  followed  (everyone  be- 
lieves) by  a  long  and  satisfying  career  in 
TV,  in  theater,  and  on  film  and  records. 

The  problems  will  continue,  of  course. 
Andy  says  that  any  success  demands  that 
a  man  take  stock  of  himself  regularly  to 
make  sure  that  he  is  keeping  his  basic 
values.  A  degree  of  unvarying  normalcy, 
he  believes,  is  the  basis  for  all  personal 
happiness.  "Keeping  basic  values  and 
remaining  normal  will  be  easy — or  at  least 
easier  for  me  than  for  some — because  I'm 
fundamentally  lazy.  It  takes  lots  of  energy 
to  go  completely  haywire." 

Another  safety  measure  is  the  fact  that 
Andy  enjoys  people,  mobs  of  people  or 
minor  numbers — it  doesn't  matter — but 
only  in  job  context.  His  working  associa- 
tions are  felicitous,  his  professional  per- 
sonality delightful.  But  he  loathes  the 
social  scene.  He  abhors  large  parties, 
benefits,  galas.  He  has  to  be  dragged  to 
premieres,  and  he  leaves  as  quickly  as 
courtesy  will  permit.  "Barbara  has  trouble 
with  me,"  he  admits.  "You  should  hear 
her  say,  'Now  Andy.  .  .  .' " 

Mr.  Griffith's  idea  of  a  fine  evening  is 
one  of  reading  while  a  hi-fi  set  plays 
suitable  music,  or  one  of  joining  a  few 
friends  having  a  community  of  interest. 
Informality  and  fellowship  are  probably 
the  keynotes  of  Andy's  social  ideal. 

A  quick  check  will  indicate  that  this 
attitude  is  about  par  for  American  hus- 
bands. In  brief,  Andy  Griffith  is  the  All- 
American  Boy,  Southern  Division. 


IS 


the  new  Elvis? 


*iiiii 


Now — for  the  first  time — the 
complete  Tommy  Sands  story. 
Don't  miss  this  exciting  book  on 
a  new  skyrocketing  performer. 
TOMMY  SANDS— His  Life  Story 
— Over  125  photos. 


WILL  SANDS  REPLACE  ELVIS  PRESLEY? 

NOW  AT  ALL  NEWSSTANDS— 35c 

If  your  newsdealer  has  sold  out,  use  this  coupon. 

r 


BARTH  HOUSE.  INC. 

205  E.  42  ST.,  NEW  YORK   17,  N.  Y. 

SIRS: 

I  ENCLOSE  35c.    PLEASE  RUSH  THE  NEW  TOMMY  SANDS 
BOOK  TO  ME. 


NAME. 


PLEASE  PRINT 


ADDRESS 


CITY ZONE STATE. 


69 


(Continued  from  page  48) 
four  weeks  later!    My  family  thought  he 
was  wonderful.    So,  of  course,  did  I." 

It  was  a  lovely  wedding.  Rosemary's 
mother  had  passed  on  after  a  long  illness, 
but  her  mother's  sister,  Mrs.  Percy  Johns- 
ton, and  her  uncle  offered  their  house  for 
the  wedding — the  same  house  from  which 
Rosemary's  mother  had  been  married  and 
where  Rosemary  was  now  living.  Even 
the  decorations  were  the  same.  There  was 
bitter-sweet  in  the  memories,  but  mostly 
there  was  warmth  and  tenderness  to  over- 
shadow any  sorrow. 

"Jack  and  I  both  love  our  families,"  says 
Rosemary,  "and  have  learned  to  appre- 
ciate them  even  more  since  some  members 
have  passed  on.  His  folks  live  only  a  short 
drive  away  and  my  relatives  are  not  far — 
my  Aunt  Belle  Johnston,  now  a  widow, 
my  father,  my  sister  and  brother.  There 
are  several  groups  of  young  people  in  our 
area,  too,  and  we  get  together  a  great  deal. 
With  both  of  us  so  busy,  and  with  so  many 
people  whose  companionship  we  enjoy, 
the  weeks  just  fly  by." 

Their  ranch  house,  which  sort  of  rambles 
up  a  hill,  was  built  with  seven  rooms,  but 
the  Merrells  have  added  three  extra  rooms 
in  the  basement.  There's  a  room  for  bar- 
becue parties,  done  in  knotty  pine  like  the 
others  and  decorated  in  red  and  yellow, 
with  a  long  picnic  table  and  benches.  A 
ping-pong  room,  where  they  entertain 
their  ping-pong  club.  A  small  lounge  and 
bar,  with  tables  and  divans  along  the  wall 
for  informal  serving,  and  where  guests 
can  watch  Jack's  collection  of  many  kinds 
of  exotic  and  beautiful  fish  swimming 
about  in  mammoth  and  handsome  tanks. 

The  rest  of  the  house  is  more  formal,  but 
still  gay  and  bright  with  color,  and  every- 
where there  are  the  Oriental  touches  that 
satisfy  something  in  Rosemary's  soul.  (She 
isn't  sure  just  what  it  is,  but  only  that  she 
has  always  loved  beautiful  art  objects 
from  the  East  and  longed  to  own  a  few 
of  them.)  There  are  some  fine  Chinese 
tapestries  and  rare  bits  of  ornament,  and 
even  the  dull  green  and  gold  pattern  of 
the  foyer  wallpaper  has  this  Oriental  feel- 
ing. 

The  big  living  room  is  mostly  eighteenth- 
century  traditional  and  gracious,  with 
Rosie's  baby  grand  piano — a  birthday  gift 
from  Jack  two  years  ago — over  in  one 
corner.  She  describes  herself  as  "only  a 
fair  musician,  who  loves  to  play  the  piano 
a  little,  and  also  the  accordion,"  but  the 


All  the  Things  You  Are 

piano  has  been  a  stimulus  to  continued 
practice. 

The  den  is  filled  with  Early  American 
antiques,  the  kitchen  is  desert  pink,  the 
porch  done  in  charcoal  with  pink  blinds 
and  pink  wrought-iron  furniture.  Up- 
stairs are  three  bedrooms,  in  such  unique 
and  lovely  colorings  as  burnt  lemon  and 
aqua.  One  is  Rosie's  Valentine  Room,  so- 
called  because  she  decorated  it  in  red  and 
white,  with  little  hearts. 

"I  love  our  house  so  much  that  I  make  a 
tour  every  morning  before  I  leave,"  she 
admits.  "Each  room  is  different.  Each 
looks  beautiful  to  us,  probably  because  we 
started  without  one  thing  and  picked  the 
furnishings,  piece  by  piece,  with  loving 
care.  Everything  has  a  special  meaning 
for  us  now." 

When  you  ask  Rosemary  how  she  man- 
ages to  keeo  a  house  so  spic  and  span  with 
only  the  help  of  a  cleaning  woman,  and 
do  all  the  cooking,  too,  she  laughs.  "I 
run.  All  the  time.  I  usually  get  up  about 
6: 45  and  I  get  home  just  in  time  to  do  any 
marketing  necessary  and  to  have  dinner 
on  the  table  by  6:30.  Poor  Jack — he  used 
to  have  to  wait  until  all  hours  while  I 
learned  to  assemble  a  dinner,  but  now  I 
have  learned  to  plan  better.  When  he  is 
away,  I  eat  with  friends,  if  I'm  not  too  late 
or  too  tired.  I'm  supposed  to  have  one 
day  a  week  to  myself,  but  it  doesn't  always 
work  out  that  way.  I  do  my  housework 
in  bits,  a  little  whenever  I  have  time.  We 
would  like  to  own  a  dog,  but  we're  away 
so  much  and  an  animal  would  be  lonely. 
I  did  have  a  Siamese  cat  we  called  Minute 
— but  cats  get  lonely,  too." 

Rosemary  has  always  been  a  busy  little 
girl  on  the  go.  Her  interest  in  acting 
started  in  high  school,  in  Montclair,  New 
Jersey,  where  she  was  born.  As  a  mem- 
ber of  a  dramatic  group,  she  was  singled 
out  by  a  friend  of  playwright  George  S. 
Kaufman  and  was  soon  offered  a  teen-age 
role  in  a  Kaufman-produced  play  called 
"Franklin  Street."  Unfortunately,  it  closed 
in  Washington,  D.  C,  before  coming  to 
New  York,  but  now  playwright  Moss  Hart 
had  seen  her,  and  he  put  her  in  "Junior 
Miss."  That  ran  about  a  year.  Then  Mr. 
Kaufman  cast  her  in  a  play  written  by 
Gypsy  Rose  Lee,  called  "The  Naked  Gen- 
ius," in  which  Joan  Blondell  starred.  By 
thio  time,  Rosemary  was  attending  the 
Professional  Children's  School  in  New 
York,  playing  in  summer  stock  when  she 
wasn't    on    Broadway,    and   had,    all   told, 


DID  HIS  KISSES  MEAN  LOVE? 

Vital  questions  about  life  and  love  are 
answered  on  radio's  "My  True  Story." 
For  it  presents  real-life  stories  taken  right 
from  the  files  of  "True  Story"  Magazine. 
You  hear  how  people  like  your  friends, 
your  neighbors,  your  own  family  have 
fought  with  life's  most  difficult  emotional 
problems — and  how  they  have  won 
happiness.  Be  sure  to  listen — for  the  next 
thrilling  episode  may  answer  your  most 
important  question. 

TUNE  IN 


MY  TRUE  STORY" 


American  Broadcasting  Stations 
B       "Whatever  they  say  about  my  mother,  I  know  it  wasn't  as  bad  as  it  sounded." 

Read  "One  Dozen  Black  Velvet  Dresses"  in  July  TRUE  STORY  Magazine,  now 

at  all  newsstands. 
70 


become  a  full-fledged  professional  actress. 

Rosemary's  mother  was  never  quite  sure 
that  acting  was  a  career  for  any  daughter 
of  hers — especially  when  the  play  had  a 
name  like  "The  Naked  Genius."  But  the 
family  went  along  with  Rosie's  ambitions, 
and  her  Aunt  Belle  encouraged  her,  be- 
lieving, that  young  people  should  have 
the  chance  to  do  what  they  really  wanted 
to  do. 

"By  1944,  when  I  opened  in  'Dear  Ruth' 
on  Broadway,"  Rosemary  recalls,  "my 
mother  was  so  ill  that  she  was  in  a  hospi- 
tal, and  I  didn't  know  she  was  there  in  the 
audience  on  opening  night.  She  had  asked 
to  be  brought  in  an  ambulance,  and  had 
to  be  taken  back  immediately  after  the 
performance.  I  was  so  proud  when  I  was 
told  she  had  been  there,  and  I  am  sure  it 
made  her  happy.  It  was  the  last  time  she 
saw  me  perform,  and  a  little  later  she 
passed  on.  My  Aunt  Belle  was  just  won- 
derful to  me.  When  I  was  playing  in 
'Dear  Ruth,'  I  was  also  doing  some  radio 
work,  and  my  aunt  used  to  sit  in  the 
car  and  wait  for  me  and  whisk  me  off  to 
the  theater  in  time." 

Even  with  her  aunt's  help,  and  the  help 
of  others  in  her  family  who  loved  and  be- 
lieved in  her,  and  the  help  of  many  friends 
she  had  now  made  in  the  theater,  Rosie 
was  never  a  girl  to  wait  for  someone  else 
to  do  her  work.  She  is  as  honest  with 
herself  as  she  is  with  others,  and  she  faced 
the  fact  that  an  actress  doesn't  find  much 
economic  security  in  the  legitimate  the- 
ater. She  wanted  to  use  her  talent,  and 
she  wanted  to  be  sure  there  would  be  a 
place  for  her  to  keep  on  using  it,  so  radio 
seemed  more  and  more  attractive  and  se- 
cure. She  planned  a  campaign  to  get 
known  in  radio  circles. 

"Over  a  period  of  time  I  bought  many 
pairs  of  tickets  for  'Dear  Ruth,'  sending 
them  to  producers  and  directors  of  radio 
shows  with  my  compliments,  and  suggest- 
ing they  might  enjoy  our  play.  I  never 
knew  whether  my  first  program,  Grand 
Central  Station,  was  a  direct  result  of  my 
campaign,  but  I  think  it  was  an  indirect 
one.  Tickets  were  acknowledged  and  used, 
and  opportunities  did  begin  to  open.  I 
played  a  Saturday  radio  show  for  eight 
years,  The  Adventures  Of  Archie  An- 
drews, opposite  Bob  Hastings.  I  had  many 
dramatic  parts  on  radio,  and  not  for  one 
week  since  my  bold  campaign  have  I  ever 
been  out  of  work.  Like  other  radio  per- 
formers, I  made  the  step  into  television — 
probably  more  easily  than  some,  because 
of  my  stage  background." 

Although  she  seemed  destined  from  the 
first  to  be  the  rebellious  teenager,  Jill,  who 
would  learn  lessons  of  sacrifice  and  fam- 
ily loyalty,  it  was  months  after  reading 
for  the  part  before  she  was  finally  chosen 
for  Young  Dr.  Malone.  One  actress  after 
another  was  tried,  and  later  rejected,  be- 
cause the  producers  had  certain  qualities 
in  mind  that  seemed  elusive  when  they 
tried  to  pin  them  down  to  any  one  per- 
son. Only  Sandy  Becker,  who  is  Dr.  Jerry 
Malone  himself,  picked  Jill  from  the  start. 
"You're  Jill,"  he  kept  saying  to  her.  By 
the  time  everyone  else  was  agreeing  with 
him,  he  just  smiled  and  said,  "Didn't  I  tell 
you  it  would  happen?" 

"Radio  and  television  have  given  me 
roots,"  Rosemary  says  now.  "I  really 
grew  up  on  Mama.  I  loved  the  show  from 
the  first  moment,  and  never  dreamed  it 
would  have  such  a  success.  I  was  just  so 
proud  to  be  in  it.  We  are  like  a  real 
family  by  now. 

"As  Jill  in  Young  Dr.  Malone,  I  have  an- 
other family.  Sandy  Becker  has  been  just 
wonderful.  And  Joan  Alexander,  who  is 
Tracey.    I  love  the  talk  of  hospitals  and 


medicine.  I  think  I  have  always  been  a 
little  in  awe  of  the  medical  profession, 
and  when  I  was  single  I  was  attracted  to 
young  doctors.  I  did  volunteer  work  in 
Roosevelt  Hospital  in  New  York  and 
sometimes  I  almost  wished  I  had  become 
a  doctor." 

Until  the  time  of  her  marriage,  Rose- 
mary went  to  New  York  University  early 
mornings  before  rehearsals  and  early  eve- 
nings several  times  a  week.  She  found 
herself  learning  her  lines  for  the  show  in 
class,  and  doing  her  class  homework  at  the 
studio.  But,  in  spite  of  the  confusion  of 
interests,  she  loved  it  all,  loved  to  study, 
used  to  be  so  pleased  when  "Mama"  and 
"Papa,"  as  she  fondly  calls  her  TV  parents, 
liked  her  compositions,  or  when  Sandy 
Becker,  her  "other  father,"  congratulated 
her  on  her  marks. 

Now,  of  course,  it's  her  personal  life 
that  comes  first,  although  she  can't  im- 
agine any  life  that  doesn't  include  her 
work  as  an  actress.  "Jack  is  so  willing  to 
let  me  be  a  person,"  she  points  out.  "An  in- 
dividual, and  an  actress,  as  well  as  his 
wife.  I  have  always  believed  it  is  hard 
for  anyone  out  of  our  profession  to  marry 
someone  in  it,  but  Jack  makes  it  easy. 
Most  men  I  knew  before  him  showed  some 
jealousy  of  my  devotion  to  my  work  and 
the  way  it  took  my  time.  Some  men  don't 
like  to  have  a  wife  who  can  earn  a  fair 
amount,  believing  that  this  takes  away  their 
own  prestige.  We  haven't  built  up  any 
such  problems. 

"Jack  is  proud  of  me,  I  believe,  but  not 
too  proud.  He  makes  it  plain  that  he  is 
more  proud  of  me  as  a  person  than  as  an 
actress,  proud  that  I  have  the  ability  to 
work  hard  for  what  I  want.  When  he  gets 
a  certain  twinkle  in  his  eye,  I  realize  that 
he  thinks  I'm  getting  a  little  'upstage'  and 
I  snap  right  out  of  it.  He's  the  most  well- 
adjusted  person  I  know,  without  a  trace  of 
sham." 

They  both  worry  about  the  state  of  the 
world  and  what  may  happen,  and  they 
both  realize  that  each  day  should  be  lived 
to  its  fullest.  Both  have  a  sense  of  humor, 
both  know  that  everything  cannot  always 
be  perfect — so  they  strive  to  make  it  as 
perfect  as  possible,  here  and  now. 

"I  like  getting  older,  because  I  get  hap- 
pier every  year,"  Rosie  says.  "I  have  a 
husband,  a  home,  and  I  hope  someday  to 
have  children.  It's  wonderful  to  have  a 
career,  too — to  create,  to  use  what  I  have 
learned  during  these  past  years.  But  I 
have  also  learned  how  important  a  per- 
sonal life  is  to  a  woman." 

When  Rosemary  and  Jack  were  married, 
Ralph  Nelson  (then  the  director  of  the 
Mama  show)  and  his  wife  Barbara  an- 
nounced they  had  arranged  to  have  all  the 
whistles  in  New  Jersey  blow  at  the  mo- 
ment the  wedding  began.  Sure  enough, 
tha  minister  had  just  started  the  ceremony 
when  suddenly  it  seemed  as  if  every  siren 
in  the  state  began  to  shriek.  What  the 
two  had  forgotten  was  that  this  was  Sat- 
urday noon,  when  the  air  raid  sirens  and 
the  warning  whistles  are  always  tested. 
It  almost  broke  them  up! 

"Now,  when  Jack  and  I  hear  the  sirens 
scream,  we  look  at  each  other  and  laugh. 
'Must  be  a  wedding  somewhere,'  we  say." 

The  whistles  are  still  blowing,  the  bells 
are  still  ringing  for  Rosemary  Rice  Mer- 
rell — the  way  she  hopes  they  will  ring, 
joyously,  in  the  future  of  Young  Dr.  Ma~ 
lone's  teen-aged  daughter  Jill. 

••••••••••••••••*•••••••••** 

INVEST   IN 

U.  S.  SAVINGS  BONDS 

NOW  EVEN  BETTER 

*•••*••••**•••••••••••••**** 


500  SChilds  Photo 


Yes,  up  to  $500  and  more  PAID  if  used  for 
TV,  Calendar  or  Magazine  Ads.  YOUR  CHILD 
has  same  opportunity.  Send  ONE  small  photo 
for  approval.  Print  child's  and  mother's  name 
and  address  on  back.  Returned  in  2  weeks 
with  report.  (Ages  6  mo.  to  IS  yrs.) 

NO  OBLIGATION.  (Established  1946) 
HOLLYWOOD  SPOTLITE,  Dept.  AG 
8346   Beverly   Blvd.,    Hollywood.    Calif. 


The  soothing, 
refreshing  skin  con- 
ditioner that  pene- 
trates and  brings 
relief  to  numbing, 
tingling  muscles  in 
back  and  legs  .  .  . 
**Jg~^  ends  the  dis- 
6£=iS&\  comfort  of 
fA-SlSJ?/  tight,  dry 
skin. 

At  Drug  Stores  Everywhere. 

THE  S.S.S.  COMPANY,  ATLANTA,  GA. 


Be  a.  Hotel  Hostess 


Enjoy  Your  Work!  Fascinating  po- 
sitions in  hotels,  motels,  clubs, 
apartment  house  projects  as  Host- 
ess, Executive  Housekeeper,  Man- 
ager, etc.  Alice  Behr  writes:  "Am 
Hotel  Hostess-Housekeeper  and  my 
position  is  well-paid."  Write  for 
FREE  book,  "Your  Big  Opportunity."  Approved  for 
ALL  Veteran  Training.  Lewis  Hotel  Training  School, 
Sta.  CL-118-01,  Washington  7,  D.  C.  41st  Year. 


omebccM 


S^S  d&Joonet, 


Make  This 

Mollie  Parnis 

Original         f 

and  be  the 

Best  Dressed  Girl 

In  Town 


Let  these  famous 
American  Designers 
help  you  be  the  best 
dressed  girl  in  town — 
if  you  can  sew: — 

Ceil  Chapman  — 
Claire  McCardell  — 
Tina  Leser — Jo  Cope- 
land — Philip  Mangone 
—  Monte  Sano  —  Her- 
bert Sondheim — Brigance — David  Goodstein — 
Joset  Walker — Joseph  Halpert — Vera  Maxwell 
— Toni  Owen — Fira — Benenson — Harvey  Berin 
— Frank  Gallant — Mollie  Parnis — Clare  Potter. 

Patterns  of  36  original  designs  by  these   fa- 
mous names  are  now  available. 

To  see  this  entire  collection  send  50c  for  our 
100-page  pattern  booklet  XI. 

World  Wide,  Dept.  WG-757 

63   Central  Avenue,  Ossining,  N.  Y. 

Send   me    100-page   pattern    booklet   XI.   I    en- 
close fifty  cents. 

NAME 

STREET 

CITY 

ZONE STATE 


MOLLIE  PARNIS 


Faith  Had  the  Answer 


72 


(Continued  from  page  29) 

"We'll  get  a  wheelchair  for  you,"  the 
sister  said  firmly  to  the  woman.  Poor 
thing,  she  thought.  She  probably  doesn't 
realize  how  close  to  death  she  is.  And 
she's  so  young — in  her  twenties.  But  God 
must  have  His  own  reasons  for  summon- 
ing her. 

That  was  how  close  to  death  Mrs.  Bill 
Lundigan  was,  three  years  ago.  At  the 
time,  Bill  Lundigan — your  host  on  Shower 
Of  Stars  and  Climax!,  the  Chrysler  Cor- 
poration shows — had  only  recently  com- 
pleted making  a  picture,  "Terror  Ship," 
in  London. 

Bill  didn't  know  how  close  to  true  terror 
he  and  his  wife,  Rena,  were  to  come  in 
the  days  and  weeks  that  followed.  They 
had  gone  to  Paris  and  Rome  in  a  holiday 
mood.  A  few  signs  of  illness  which  Rena 
showed  had  disturbed  their  Paris  holiday, 
but  they  had  hoped  it  was  just  a  passing 
thing.  Then,  in  Rome,  she  had  become 
deathly  sick. 

Whenever  the  hospital  rules  permitted, 
Bill  was  by  Rena's  side.  Between  visits  to 
her  bedside,  he  was  on  his  knees  in  the 
chapel  of  the  hospital,  praying  that  God 
spare  Rena,  if  it  was  His  will. 

Rena's  blood  count  was  down  to  44.  Ac- 
cording to  most  medical  science,  with  a 
blood  count  of  44,  she  should  have  been 
dead.  Somehow,  through  Bill's  faith  and 
her  own,  and  with  the  help  of  the  great- 
est of  all  Physicians,  she  survived. 

In  Rome,  she  had  six  transfusions  of 
bljod.  The  doctors  said  she  needed  an 
operation,  but  they  couldn't  operate  on 
her  till  they  got  her  blood  count  up  to 
at  least  72.  They  planned  to  operate  on 
her  in  the  hospital  in  Rome.  But,  when 
Rena  learned  that  she  would  have  a  long 
convalescence,  she  implored  the  doctor  to 
let  her  go  back  to  Los  Angeles  for  the 
surgery.  Finally,  he  gave  his  consent. 

"The  doctor,"  Bill  told  me,  "was  taking 
one  of  the  greatest  chances  a  medical  man 
ever  took.  For  going  back  to  the  United 
States  meant  flying  at  a  height  of  22,000 
feet  to  California.  If  Rena  had  started 
again  to  lose  blood  on  the  plane,  where 
could  we  have  gone  for  help?  At  22,000 
feet  above  the  ground,  how  are  you  going 
to  get  to  a  hospital?" 

We  were  sitting  in  the  living  room  of 
the  Lundigans'  modest  but  charming 
Benedict  Canyon  home,  built  in  simple 
French  Normandy  style. 

"It  was  Bill  who  took  the  greatest 
chance,"  said  Rena  simply.  Her  happy, 
healthy  face  shone  with  the  light  of 
fulfillment.  This  is  the  way  a  woman 
looks  when  her  dearest  dreams  have  come 
true. 

Rena's  hair  was  the  glossy  dark  brown 
of  perfect  health,  and  her  brown  eyes 
danced  impishly.  Today,  things  are  a  far 
cry,  at  the  Lundigans',  from  what  they 
were  three  years  ago. 

It  seems  unlikely  that  Bill  Lundigan 
would  have  been  able  to  endure  the 
anguish  of  those  days,  if  it  had  not  been 
for  his  deep,  abiding  faith  in  God.  "Faith," 
as  he  said  earnestly,  "is  ninety-nine  per- 
cent of  the  happiness  Rena  and  I  have 
found  with  each  other,  and  with  Stacey." 

Stacey  is  the  two-year-old  bewitching 
bundle  of  energy  whom  Bill  and  Rena 
adopted  about  a  year  ago.  She  is  some 
twenty  pounds  and  about  thirty-four 
inches  of  sheer  enchantment,  with  reddish- 
blond  hair,  blue  eyes  that  change  in  dif- 
ferent lights  but  look  very  like  Bill's,  and 
a  temperament  which  seems  a  composite 
of  both  Bill's  and  Rena's. 

The  little  house  in  Benedict  Canyon  is 
filled  with  the  presence  of  Stacey.  There's 
her   photograph   over   the   fireplace,   right 


in  the  heart  of  the  living  room.  There's 
a  nursery  filled  with  her  toys  and  dolls — 
she  has  had  so  many  of  them  that  the 
Lundigans  have  given  two-thirds  of  the 
wonderful  gifts  away,  since  no  one  child 
could  ever  find  time  to  play  with  all  of 
them.  And  there's  the  pink  and  white  bed- 
room, which  was  ready  and  waiting  for 
Stacey  a  whole  year  before  the  Lundigans 
found  her. 

Stacey  is  a  bundle  of  dynamite  from  the 
moment  she  wakes  up  in  the  morning  till 
she  goes  to  bed  at  night.  As  soon  as  she 
jumps  out  of  bed,  she  rushes  into  Daddy's 
room,  pats  his  cheek,  flings  herself  across 
his  chest,  and  begs  to  play  "horsie."  Bill, 
of  course,  is  the  horsie,  little  Stacey  the 
rider.  "Thank  heavens  she  doesn't  wear 
spurs,"  he  laughs. 

The  rest  of  the  day,  Stacey  bounds 
around  the  house  with  the  same  tireless 
energy.  She  reaches  for  everything  her 
little  hands  can  grasp.  When  told  she 
mustn't  touch  something,  she  walks  away, 
diverts  your  attention  elsewhere,  pre- 
tends to  have  lost  all  interest  in  the  object 
she  was  told  not  to  touch,  but  eventually 
comes   back   to   it. 

Among  her  big  interests  in  life  are  Bill 
and  Rena,  pocketbooks  in  general,  and 
her  life-size  doll.  She  loves  to  have 
breakfast  with  this  big  jointed  doll,  which 
was  exactly  her  size  when  Stacey  received 
it  last  Christmas  as  Bill's  gift.  Now 
Stacey  is  a  couple  of  inches  taller  than  the 
doll,  which  she  dresses  in  her  cast-off 
dresses  and  shoes.  This  particular  doll  is 
probably  the  best-dressed  one  in  Bene- 
dict Canyon. 

Who  would  have  dared  predict  such 
complete  and  ecstatic  joy  for  the  Lundi- 
gans during  the  grim  days  when  Rena  lay, 
struggling  for  life,  in  her  room  in  St. 
John's  Hospital?  She  needed  transfusion 
after  transfusion,  and  it  had  to  be  whole 
blood,  not  just  plasma.  There  were  al- 
ways willing,  eager  donors,  for  Bill  and 
Rena  have  always  been  loved  by  those 
who  knew  them.  The  men  at  20th  Century- 
Fox,  where  Bill  was  then  under  contract, 
gave  quart  after  quart  of  blood. 

Though  Rena  needed  the  blood  desper- 
ately, it  was  hard  for  her  thin,  wracked 
body  to  take  it.  It  used  to  take  five  hours 
for  a  single  transfusion;  and  she  could 
be  given  only  one  transfusion  a  day.  There 
was  one  day  when  the  doctors  were  almost 
sure  that  they  were  going  to  lose  her.  For 
two  or  three  hours,  she  was  losing  blood 
more  rapidly  than  it  could  be  administered. 

The  possible  danger  of  cancer  never 
worried  Rena.  "It  just  didn't  occur  to  me," 
she  says  simply.  "I  didn't  allow  myself 
to  think  of  it,  any  more  than  a  soldier 
thinks  that  he  is  going  to  be  killed  in 
battle.  He  knows  some  men  will  be,  but 
doesn't  believe  his  number  will  come  up." 

Bill  knew  that  it  was  a  possibility,  but 
there  was  no  way  of  getting  a  final  answer 
till  five  days  after  the  operation.  The 
preliminary  biopsy  was  hopeful,  but  only 
the  final  biopsy  after  the .  surgery  would 
tell  the   complete   story. 

Bill  was  on  his  knees  every  day  in  the 
chapel  at  St.  John's.  Just  as  he  had  sought 
God's  guidance  before  he  took  the  flight 
with  Rena  to  Los  Angeles,  so  he  sought 
it  daily  while  Rena  lay,  wavering  between 
life  and  death. 

Five  days  after  the  operation,  Bill 
learned  the  merciful  truth.  There  was  not 
a  sign  of  malignancy.  Bill  says,  "Through 
those  trying  days,  I  would  have  buckled 
under,  if  it  hadn't  been  for  faith.  If  you 
don't  have  faith  in  God  to  live  with  when 
you  have  happiness,  and  to  fall  back  on 
when  you  have  sorrow,  you're  in  trouble." 

With  faith,  as  Bill  learned,  you  can  go 


through  the  most  harrowing  experience, 
and  your  spirit  and  courage  and  sanity 
will  survive.  The  Lundigans  have  par- 
layed faith,  love  and  laughter  into  true 
happiness.  Without  these  three  precious 
ingredients,  they  would  have  nothing. 

How  thoroughly  they  have  found  hap- 
piness is  evident  in  the  joyful  atmosphere 
of  their  home  today.  Stacey  stood  on  the 
staircase  leading  from  the  living  room  to 
her  bedroom.  On  her  head  was  perched 
the  most  audacious  hat,  a  vivid  Kelly 
green,  embellished  with  flowers. 

"Macushla,"  said  Bill  to  Stacey,  "on  what 
boat  did  you  come  over?" 

And  truly,  with  those  bluish-green 
Irish  eyes,  that  impossible  hat,  and  the 
pink  dress  that  any  smart  little  colleen 
would  know  was  just  right  for  her  to 
wear,  Stacey  might  really  have  come 
straight  from  the  Emerald  Isle. 

Actually,  when  the  Lundigans  first  be- 
held her,  she  looked  altogether  different. 
Instead  of  looking  like  a  rosy-cheeked 
colleen,  she  was  all  eyes  and  ears,  thin 
and  wan,  with  sparse,  lackluster  hair — and 
a  bald  spot  in  back  which  might  have  been 
caused  by  hours  and  days  and  weeks  of 
lying  in  a  crib,  with  no  one  close  by  to 
pick  her  up  and  fondle  her.  Of  course, 
things  changed  when  she  was  brought  to 
the  agency,  but  she  had  been  there  only  a 
couple  of  weeks — not  nearly  long  enough 
for  the  sisters  there  to  give  her  the  feel- 
ing of  being  forever  loved,  forever  secure. 
"I'd  always  pictured  a  blue-eyed  blonde," 
Rena  admits.  "And  there  was  Stacey, 
with  straight  darkish  hair.  She  was  very 
apathetic.  There  was  no  expression  on 
her  face.  She  looked  as  if  she  didn't  give 
a  hoot." 

The  Lundigans  looked  at  each  other. 
The  Mother  Superior  said,  "Why  don't  you 
take  a  couple  of  weeks  to  think  it  over?" 

"We  don't  want  time  to  think  it  over," 
said  Rena.  "That's  right,"  said  Bill.  For 
two  years,  they  had  been  searching  for  a 
baby  girl.  They  hadn't  wanted  an  infant, 
but  a  child  who  might  sometimes  be  able 
to  travel  with  Bill,  who  covers  125,000  miles 
a  year  on  his  good-will  tours  for  Chrysler 
Corporation.  During  those  two  years,  it 
had  sometimes  seemed  as  if  they'd  never 
get  the  baby  they  wanted.  This  was  the 
first  baby  girl  old  enough  to  travel  with 
Bill  and  Rena,  on  at  least  some  of  his 
cross-country    flights. 

"Let's  be  honest  about  it,"  says  Rena. 
"It  wasn't  that  we  had  an  instantaneous 
feeling  of  great  love  for  Stacey.  But  she 
was  available." 

"We  didn't  take  her  because  she  was 
the  loneliest  child  we'd  ever  seen,  but 
in  spite  of  it,"  Bill  adds,  with  that  almost 
painful  honesty  of  his,  leaning  over  back- 
ward, so  he  won't  be  credited  with  "noble" 
motives.  "Let's  get  one  thing  straight. 
Nobody  was  doing  anybody  any  great 
favor.  Least  of  all,  were  we  doing  any- 
one a  favor  in  taking  Stacey.  It  was  the 
other  way  round.  The  good  Lord  blessed 
us  by  giving  her  to  us." 

The  Lundigans  were  not  quite  sure 
what  to  name  her.  Bill  held  out  for  the 
name  Anastacia,  after  his  grandmother. 
Anastacia  is  also  a  saint's  name.  Rena,  who 
dislikes  nicknames,  wanted  a  name  that 
couldn't  be  converted  into  a  nickname. 
She'd  always  liked  the  name  Stacey. 
They  compromised.  The  baby  was  named 
Anastacia — Stacey,  for  short. 

Stacey  thrived  on  love.  With  the  pass- 
ing of  months,  her  hair  turned  lighter,  her 
figure  a  little  fuller,  though  she's  small- 
boned  and  will  never  be  chubby.  After  a 
trip  to  Honolulu,  her  hair  even  turned 
curly.  This  was  such  a  phenomenon  that 
friends  have  asked  Rena  what  she  did  to 


turn  the  straight  hair  curly!  "I  didn't  do 
anything,"  she  laughs.  "Actually  I  can 
hardly  get  a  comb  through  her  hair  now." 
She  believes  that  the  vitamins  in  Stacey's 
diet  may  have  caught  up  with  Stacey's 
hair. 

Stacey  has  probably  traveled  more  than 
almost  any  other  baby  her  age  in  the 
United  States.  When  Bill  went  to  Wash- 
ington, D.  C,  to  emcee  the  Inaugural  cele- 
bration, Rena  and  Stacey  flew  there  a 
few  days  later,  to  be  with  him. 

"We  confused  the  admirals  and  all  the 
big  shots  in  Washington,  D.  C,"  Rena 
laughs.  "They  just  couldn't  understand 
why  such  a  small  child  was  being  allowed 
to  take  a  walk  in  the  hall  on  our  floor  of 
the  Mayflower  Hotel  at  nine  each  night. 
Of  course,  the  reason  was  that  there's  a 
three-hour  difference  between  California 
time  and  Eastern  time.  Since  we  were 
going  to  be  in  Washington  for  only  a  few 
days,  I  didn't  think  it  wise  to  put  Stacey 
on  Washington  time.  Why  put  Stacey  to 
bed  at  six? 

"Stacey  knew  everybody  on  our  floor 
at  the  hotel,  and  she  was  always  flying 
around  the  corridor.  One  evening,  my 
brother,  a  professor  at  the  University  of 
Maryland,  came  over  to  baby-sit  for  us. 
He  had  quite  a  time  chasing  after  Stacey, 
especially  when  she  wandered  toward  the 
wrong  suite  at  the  hotel." 

"As  a  result  of  that  experience,"  Bill 
chuckles,  "he  may  remain  a  bachelor  for 
the  rest  of  his  life."  But  it's  obvious  he 
really  thinks  an  evening  with  Stacey 
should  be  enough  to  make  any  man  yearn 
for  marriage  and  a  family,  with  a  bounc- 
ing little  angel-imp  like  Stacey  to  make 
things  really  interesting.  The  Lundigans 
themselves  are  so  far  from  being  fright- 
ened by  their  hectic  experiences  with 
Stacey  that  they  plan  eventually  to  add 
three  more  children  to  the  family,  first 
a  girl,  then  two  boys. 

Love,  laughter  and  prayer  have  been 
a  part  of  the  Lundigan  life  from  the  very 
beginning. 

Bill  was  born  in  Syracuse,  New  York, 
the  eldest  son  of  Martha  and  Michael 
Lundigan.  Bill's  father  owned  a  shoe 
store  in  Syracuse  and,  as  a  youngster,  Bill 
worked  part  time  in  his  father's  store.  But 
Bill  became  fascinated  by  radio  very  early 
in  his  life.  Jack  Shannon,  program  direc- 
tor of  WFBL  in  Syracuse — who  later  be- 
came Father  Shannon — had  great  faith  in 
Bill,  and  gave  him  a  chance  to  become  a 
full  time  announcer  for  the  station. 

At  the  beginning,  however,  Bill  was  un- 
sure of  himself  and  pulled  so  many  boners 
that  the  station  officials  asked  Jack  Shan- 
non to  fire  him.  Instead,  the  future  priest 
pleaded  with  them  to  give  Bill  more  time 
to  get  accustomed  to  his  new  chores — and 
promised  to  coach  him  himself.  Aided  by 
Jack  Shannon,  Bill  became  a  very  suc- 
cessful announcer.  In  fact,  he  got  his  first 
chance  to  act  in  the  movies  as  a  result 
of  an  incident  that  occurred  during  his 
days  in  radio. 

One  day  on  the  air.  Bill  interviewed  a 
man  who  was  publicizing  one  of  the  "Tar- 
zan"  pictures.  The  man  had  a  number  of 
boxes  with  him,  and  asked  Bill  Lundi- 
gan if  he  would  mind  his  opening  a  couple 
of  the  boxes.  "Oh,  that'll  be  fine,"  said 
Bill,  never  guessing  who  was  in  them.  Out 
of  the  first  box  came  Cheetah,  a  chim- 
panzee. Out  of  the  second  box  the  pub- 
licity man  pulled  a  fourteen-foot  python. 
"Take  her,"  he  told  Bill.  "She's  harmless, 
because   she's   all  doped   up." 

Bill  confesses  that  he  is  a  devout  coward 
about  two  things— pythons  and  airplanes 
— airplanes  because  he  knows  quite  a  bit 
about  them  and  is  always  aware  when 
anything  goes  wrong,  and  pythons  because 
he  knows  nothing  about  them.  Unwilling 
to  admit  that  he  could  be  so  frightened 
of  a  doped-up  snake,  Bill  picked  up  the 


Dollars  Can't  Buy 
a  Finer  Deodorant! 


\0^ 


rf>0* 


A<* 


,*><* 


M 


o?s?     „^;n° 


no 


tot** 


stfcWy 


oM^ 


grease 


GENTLE.  HARASS  »  *•  <"  « 


lothes 


#  FRAGRANT  and  luxurious  as  a  lipstick 

•  SURE  PROTECT/ON, 


°"  day  (on( 


•/>/• 


9  st'ck  lQ 


5f*  for 


Months 


Zander 

**  CHLOROPHYLL 

STICK  DEODORANT 


At  ail  5  &  10  cent  stores 


if«'sH HIGH  SCHOOL^ 


No  classes  to  attend.  Easy  spare-time  train-  \ 
'\ing  covers  big  choice  of  subjects.  Friendly  \ 
1  \  instructors;  standard  texts.  Full  credit  for\ 
I  l  previous  schooling.     Diploma  awarded. \ 
I   1  Write  now  for  FREE  catalog  hh-48. 

WAYNE   SCHOOL  utinties'inst.) 

2527  Sheffield  Ave.,  Chicago  14,  Illinois 


PART  TIME  JOBS! 

Write  today  for  FREE  plan  which  shows 
how  to  make  big  money  in  your  spare  time. 
All  you  do  is  to  help  us  take  orders 
for  magazine  subscriptions.  No  experience 
needed.  Send  name  and  address  on  a  post 
card.  There   is  no   obligation. 

MACFADDEN   PUBLICATIONS 

205   East   42   St..    N.   Y.    17,    N.   Y. 


OH,  MY 

ACHING  BACK 

Now  !  You  can  get  the  fast  relief  you  need  from 
nagging  backache,  headache  and  muscular  aches 
and  pains  that  often  cause  restless  nights  and  mis- 
erable tired-out  feelings.  When  these  discomforts 
come  on  with  over-exertion  or  stress  and  strain  — 
you  want  relief— want  it  fast !  Another  disturbance 
may  be  mild  bladder  irritation  following  wrong 
food  and  drink  — often  setting  up  a  restless  un- 
comfortable feeling. 

For  quick  relief  get  Doan's  Pills.  They  work  fast 
in  3  separate  ways :  1.  by  speedy  pain-relieving  ac- 
tion to  ease  torment  of  nagging  backache,  head- 
aches, muscular  aches  and  pains.  2.  by  their  sooth- 
ing effect  on  bladder  irritation.  3.  by  their  mild 
diuretic  action  tending  to  increase  output  of  the  15 
miles  of  kidney  tubes. 

Find  out  how  quickly  this  3-way  medicine  goes  to 
work.  Enjoy  a  good  night's  sleep  and  the  same  happy 
relief  millions  have  for  over  60  years.  Ask  for  new, 
large  size  and  save  money.  Get  Doan's  Pills  today  ! 


SHORTHANDjn 

Famous  SPEEDWRITING  shorthand.  1 20 
-words  per  minute.  No  symbols;  no  machines. 
Uses  ABC's.  Easiest  to  learn,  write,  tran- 
scribe. Lowest  cost.  Over  350,000  graduates. 
Typing  available.  34  th  year.  Schools  in 
over  400  cities.  Write  for  FREE  booklet  to: 


ANY  PHOTO  ENURGED 


76 


Size  B  x  10  Inches 

on  DOUBLE-WEIGHT  Paper 

Same  price  for  foil  length  or  bust 
form,  groups,  landscapes,  pet  ani- 
mals, etc.,  or  enlargements  of  any 
part  of  a  group  picture.  Original  is 
returned  with  your  enlargement. 

Send  No  Money  3for*l75 

Just  mail  photo,  negative  or  snap- 
shot (any  size)  and  receive  your  enlargement,  guar- 
anteed fadeless,  on  beautiful  double  -  weight 
portrait  quality  paper.  Pay  postman  76c  plus 
postage — or  send  79c  with  order  and  we  pay  post- 
age. Takeadvantage  of  this  amazing  offer.  Send  your  photos  today. 

Professional  Art  Studios,  544  S.  Main,  Dept.  37H,    Princeton,  Illinois 


Specially  Made  for  Blondes 


To  help  keep  blonde  hair  from  growing  dork  or  faded,use  BLONOEX, 
the  new  Swedish  lotion  shampoo  made  fresh  as  you  need  it.  Contains 
ANDIUM  for  extra  lightness  and  SHINE.  Instantly  removes  dingy 
film  that  mokes  hair  dork.  Washes  hair  shades  lighter,  gives  it  lovely 
lustre.  Takes  only  1 1  minutes  at  home.  Safe  for  children.  Get  BLONDEX 
today  at  10*,  drug  or  department  stores. 


73 


slithery  creature  and  put  on  the  greatest 
act  of  his  life.  He  pretended  to  be  com- 
pletely unconcerned.  This  so  impressed 
the  publicity  ambassador  from  the  movie 
studio  that  he  suggested  Bill  should  have 
a  movie  test. 

The  test  led  to  a  contract  with  Universal. 
For  the  next  six  years,  Bill  worked  first 
at  Universal,  then  at  Warner  Bros.,  and 
finally  at  M-G-M.  Then  he  got  a  much 
more  important  contract  with  the  U.  S. 
Marines. 

Bill  has  never  been  known  to  speak 
more  than  a  sentence  or  two  about  his 
service  with  the  Marines.  When  eager- 
beaver  press  agents  or  reporters  have 
asked  him  to  discuss  his  war  adventures, 
he  has  politely  refused.  He  feels  that  he 
did  only  what  any  decent  American  would 
and  should  do — and  he's  not  going  to  do 
any  flag-waving  about  it. 

Most  writers  about  Hollywood  claim 
that  Bill  is  just  a  plain,  average,  ordi- 
nary American,  exactly  like  your  next 
door  neighbor  and  mine.  But  the  truth 
goes  much  deeper  than  that.  The  Lundi- 
gans  have  proved  themselves  extraordi- 
nary people,  raising  themselves  above 
"typical"  experience  in  the  way  they  have 
faced  both  tragedy  and  joy  with  a  valiant, 
undefeated  spirit.  Watching  Bill  over  your 
TV  set,  admitting  him  into  your  living 
room  as  the  friendly  host  of  Climax!  and 
Shower  Of  Stars,  you  are  welcoming  some- 
one with  a  much  deeper  faith — and  a 
brighter  sense  of  humor — than  most  people 
have  ever  developed. 

Take,  for  instance,  the  Lundigan  love 
story.  It  might  have  happened  to  any- 
one— but  not  in  just  the  way  that  the  Lun- 
digans   tell  it. 

The  first  time  they  met,  they  were  intro- 
duced by  friends  at  Schwab's  drug  store 
on  Sunset  Boulevard  in  Los  Angeles. 
Rena  was  fifteen.  "I  was  the  kind  of 
child,"  she  laughs,  "who  wore  braces 
on  her  teeth  and  no  make-up.  I  was  any- 
thing but  precocious.  I  had  no  romantic 
ideas  about  Hollywood  actors.  I'd  liked 
Bill's  personality  on  the  screen,  but  I 
thought  he  was  just  another  Hollywood 
actor." 

"Thanks  for  the  word  actor,"  Bill  grins. 

"I  didn't  really  expect  him  to  pay  any 
attention  to  me,"  Rena  confesses,  "but  I 
thought  he  could  have  been  a  little  more 
polite.  It  seemed  to  me  that  he  gave  me 
an  awfully  fast  brush-off.  At  that  time,  I 
thought  he  had  some  warmth  on  the 
screen,  but  not  much  warmth  off  it. 
Frankly,   I   thought   he   was   conceited." 

Bill's  memory  of  that  first  meeting  is 
very,  very  hazy.  However,  he  was  older 
than  Rena,  considered  himself  a  mature 
type,  and  presumably  dismissed  her  from 
his  mind  as  a  child. 

Four  years  later,  they  met  again.  This 
time,  Rena  was  no  longer  the  kind  of 
young  woman  who  could  be  easily  dis- 
missed from  anyone's  mind.  The  braces 
were  gone,  of  course.  Her  dark  brown  hair 
was  lustrous.  Her  blue  dress  brought 
out  the  sparkle  of  her  eyes.  She  was 
vivacious,  attractive,  a  challenge  to  any 
man.  She  had  come  to  Quantico,  Virginia, 
to  visit  her  friends,  Leonard  Lee,  a  cap- 
tain in  the  Marine  Corps,  and  his  wife. 

Bill  won't  sit  still  for  any  moonlight 
or  roses  or  soft  music,  when  you  discuss 
his  romance.  The  most  he'll  go  for  is  his 
masculine  admission,  "There  must  have 
been  a  pretty  vital  attraction." 

You  ask  hopefully,  "Was  it  love  at 
second  sight?" 

Rena    laughs.    "I    don't    know    whether 

Bill  loved  me  or  not,  but  he  certainly  liked 

my  convertible!  His  car  was  on  the  Pacific 

T    Coast,  and  mine  was  available.  Going  from 

*    Quantico   to   Washington,   D.   C.   by  train 

B    was  like  traveling  by  train  during  Civil 

War   days — so  slow   it   was   murder.  And 

_ .  Bill  loved  to  travel  to  Washington.  So  we 


used  my  car.  We  went  together  for  about 
a  month." 

During  that  month,  Bill  told  Rena  that 
she  was  spoiled.  It  made  no  impression 
then — but  now,  looking  back  upon  her  past 
life,  she  admits  she  had  been  spoiled. 
All  her  life,  she'd  had  her  own  way.  Bill 
was  the  first  person  who  didn't  let  her 
have  it.  "It  took  a  lot  of  years  to  change 
me,"  she  admits.  "I  guess  that  secretly 
I  liked  his  masterful  ways.  Or  perhaps 
I  was  just  stunned.  One  day  he  decided 
he'd  drive  my  car.  He  didn't  ask  .  .  . 
he  just  drove  it." 

"It  was  a  mating  brought  about  by 
'mutual  antagonism,'  "  Bill  chuckles.  Then, 
more  seriously,  he  adds,  "All  around  us, 
young  people  of  eighteen  or  nineteen, 
caught  up  by  war  emotions,  were  rushing 
off  to  get  married.  I  was  almost  thirty- 
one.  Our  feeling  for  each  other  was  much 
more  serious  than  just  war-emotion  ex- 
citement." 

Perhaps  they  would  have  married  then 
and  there  but  Bill  had  to  go  overseas  on 
six   hours'   notice. 

"Rena  saved  my  life  by  writing  to  me 
regularly  while  I  was  overseas,"  he  says 


Cool,  Men,  Cool! 
PAT  BOONE 

on  the  cover — and  an  exclusive  story 
from  Hollywood  by  his  wife 

• 

TOMMY  SANDS 

in  full  color  portrait — and  candid 
revelations  by  his  mother 

• 

ALL  THIS-PLUS 

fifteen  "hottest"  new  singing 
sensations  of  1957! 

August  TV  RADIO  MIRROR 


on  sale  July  5 


— and  behind  the  flippant  words  is  real 
emotion. 

One  of  the  greatest  links  with  the  peace- 
ful world  he'd  left  behind  was  Rena.  No 
matter  whether  his  letters  reached  her 
or  not — and  usually  they  didn't — she  wrote 
him  regularly,  pouring  out  her  thoughts, 
her  emotions,  her  beliefs,  in  a  way  that 
stirred  him  with  the  knowledge  that  this 
was  the  girl  for  him.  Now  he  knew  for 
sure  that,  if  he  survived  the  war,  he 
would  want  her  to  be  his  wife. 

Neither  of  them  remembers  the  exact 
time  and  place  where  Bill  proposed.  But 
they'll  never  forget  the  wedding  on  August 
18,  1945.  By  this  time,  Bill  was  considered 
a  pretty  important  Hollywood  star,  and 
photographers  and  newspapermen  would 
have  loved  a  tip-off  on  where  and  when 
he  was  going  to  get  married.  Bill  wanted 
none  of  that  Hollywood  hoop-la.  To  avoid 
it,  Bill  and  Rena  decided  to  get  married 
at  Huntington  Beach.  No  newspaper  men 
were  informed;  no  photographers  called 
in. 

"In  fact,"  laughs  Rena,  "Bill  was  so 
determined  not  to  get  publicity  out  of  our 
wedding  that  he  forgot  to  call  in  a  local 
photographer,  to  take  a  photo  for  the 
family   album.    So   we   have   none   of  the 


wedding.  My  family  was  unable  to  come, 
but  looked  forward  to  getting  a  photo,  at 
least.  When  they  learned  we  hadn't  taken 
one,  they  were  very  disappointed." 

Oddly  enough,  there  were  no  photo- 
graphs taken  of  Rena  on  another  import- 
ant occasion — when  she  wore  one  of  the 
most  beautiful  gowns  ever  designed  for 
her — a  dark  green  ballroom  dress  with 
an  embroidered  lace  top,  and  a  bodice 
made  of  an  unusual  Italian  material.  This 
was  the  gown  she  wore  at  the  President's 
Inaugural.  Bill  selected  it  from  a  group 
of  designs  by  Howard  Shoup. 

In  order  to  do  his  job  as  emcee  for  the 
Inaugural,  Bill  dressed  before  Rena,  and 
went  down  to  the  hotel  ballroom  first. 
Rena,  in  her  beautiful  gown,  sat  with 
some  friends  in  a  box  on  the  opposite  side 
of  the  room.  Designed  to  hold  about  eight 
hundred  people,  the  room  held  several 
thousand  that  night  "It  would  have  taken 
the  entire  Notre  Dame  forward  line  to  get 
from  me  to  Rena  or  from  Rena  to  me," 
Bill    grins. 

Rena  was  with  some  friends  who  had  to 
leave  early  to  fly  to  Detroit.  Not  wishing 
to  sit  alone  in  the  box,  she  went  up  to  her 
room,  took  off  the  gorgeous  gown,  sat 
around  in  her  robe,  waiting  for  Bill.  When 
he  finally  came  upstairs,  her  eyes  were 
drooping,  and  she  was  ready  for  slumber- 
land.  Bill  smiled  and  said,  "By  the  way, 
darling,  how  did  you  look  in  that  dress?" 
To  this  day,  he  hasn't  seen  Rena  in  it. 
The  Lundigans  are  so  busy  devoting  all 
their  spare  time  to  Stacey  that  Rena 
wouldn't  dream  of  wasting  precious  time 
parading  in  the  gown  for  Bill's  inspection. 
Currently,  it's  very  obvious  that  the 
real  ruler  of  the  Lundigan  household  is 
little  Stacey.  The  real  Anastasia  may  have 
had  difficulty  proving  she  was  a  member 
of  Russia's  royal  family,  but  this  par- 
ticular Anastacia  has  no  difficulty  getting 
everyone  to  treat  her  as  a  princess. 

Practically  every  day  is  Christmas  at 
the  Lundigan  household.  At  Christmas 
time,  little  Miss  Stacey  was  showered  with 
more  gifts  than  a  quiz  contestant.  Among 
last  year's  gifts  were  a  pink  and  white 
tricycle  from  a  close  friend  of  the  Lundi- 
gans, and  a  miniature  pink-and-white 
Plymouth,  small  enough  for  Stacey  to 
drive,  presented  by  Byron  Avery,  head  of 
West  Coast  promotion  for  Chrysler. 

Sometimes  friends  ask  Rena,  "Is  Stacey 
impressed  by  the  fact  that  she  can  see  her 
father  performing  on  TV?" 

"No,"  laughs  Rena.  "She  takes  it  for 
granted." 

The  first  time  Stacey  saw  Bill  on  TV,  he 
was  away  on  a  trip,  and  she  was  feeling 
disconsolate  because  she  hadn't  been  per- 
mitted to  accompany  him.  She  missed  him 
very  much.  Then,  suddenly,  she  was 
startled  not  so  much  by  his  picture  on  the 
TV  screen,  as  by  the  sound  of  his  voice. 
She  began  hunting  everywhere  for  him, 
even  under  the  TV  set. 

The  next  time  she  saw  Bill  on  TV,  he 
was  in  the  room.  Hastily,  she  patted  the 
TV  image  on  the  cheek,  then  hurried  over 
to  Bill's  lap,  and  patted  his  cheek.  On  the 
whole,  she  showed  a  distinct  preference  for 
Bill  over  his  TV  image.  After  all,  who 
can  possibly  sit  on  the  lap  of  a  TV  picture? 
Among  Stacey's  endearing  habits  is 
that  of  taking  dollar  bills  out  of  her 
mother's  wallet,  and  handing  them  to  Bill. 
"How  in  the  world  did  you  train  her  to  do 
that?"  one  friend  asked  Bill  admiringly. 
Recently,  Bill  was  given  a.  certificate  by 
American  Airlines  stating  that  he  is  an 
Admiral  of  the  Flagship  Fleet — this,  in 
honor  of  his  many  travels  by  plane  for 
Chrysler.  "I  really  ought  to  give  the  cer- 
tificate to  Stacey,"  he  smiles  "I  think  she 
has  done  almost  as  much  traveling  as  I 
have."  There's  not  much  doubt  about  it 
— Stacey's  the  Admiral  from  whom  the 
Lundigans  take  their  orders. 


WHAT'S  NEW  ON 
THE  WEST  COAST 

(Continued  from  page  11) 

million-selling  record  "Teen-Age  Crush," 
being  chased  up  the  sales  ladder  by  his 
newest,  "Ring-A-Ding-A-Ding,"  which 
looks  like  it  will  set  the  million-mark 
sales  bell  a-ringing,  too.  On  the  strength 
of  his  new  national  prominence,  Tommy 
has  moved  out  of  the  small  Hollywood 
apartment  he  shared  with  his  mother, 
Grace,  and  they  have  found  a  new  home  in 
Brentwood.  .  .  .  Who  else  is  moving? 
George  Montgomery  and  Dinah  Shore, 
celebrating  the  first  birthday  of  their  new 
Beverly  Hills  home,  are  building  a  newer 
place  in  the  Hills — so  the  children  will 
have  more  children  of  their  own  age  to 
play  with.  .  .  .  And  in  June,  Groucho  is 
moving  into  his  new  place  in  the  hills 
above  B.H.  .  .  .  And  Tic  Tac  Dough,  having 
found  a  new  night-time  home  in  this 
country,  also  found  a  home  in  England. 
The  quiz's  TV  counterpart  overseas  will  be 
known  as  Naughts  And  Crosses. 

Music  Memos:  Lawrence  Welk,  always  a 
man  to  encourage  saving  and  thrift  among 
his  bandsmen,  was  delighted  when  accor- 
dionist Myron  Floren  started  the  Cham- 
pagne Club's  Investment  Fund  for  the 
band  several  years  ago.  Each  member 
contributed  a  portion  of  his  weekly  earn- 
ings, and  this  in  turn  was  invested  in  the 
club's  behalf.  Recently,  a  special  dinner - 
meeting  of  the  club  celebrated  its  earning 
of  $2,500  on  their  investment,  which  then 
totaled  $20,000.  Now,  that's  what  we  call 
sweet  music.  .  .  .  Other  dividends  in  the 
Welk  band:  Larry  Dean,  vocalist,  and  his 
wife  Alice  expect  a  second  baby  next 
November.  Larry  will  celebrate  his  21st 
birthday,  a  new  baby,  and  a  new  home  all 
within  a  few  months.  .  .  .  Elvis,  move  over, 
here  comes  Ricky — Nelson,  that  is.  Ricky, 
the  youngest  son  of  Ozzie  and  Harriet 
Nelson,  has  started  on  a  new  career.  And, 
from  all  reports,  he  sings  a  mean  song. 
In  fact,  Verve  Records,  with  whom  he's 
signed,  says  Ricky  promises  to  sing  up  a 
real  storm.  Says  Ricky,  "This  singing, 
man,  this  is  the  life  for  me!"  Maybe  we 
can  get  Ozzie,  Harriet,  and  David  to  join  in 
a  little  four-part  harmony.  Mom  and  dad 
were  musical  before  they  were  mirthful. 


Dinah  and  George  Montgomery  want 
something  finer  for  Missy  and  Jody. 


OPPORTUNITIES 

for  EVERYBODY 

Publisher's  Classified  Department  (Trademark) 


For  advertising  rates,  write  to  William  R.  Stewart 

9  South  Clinton  Street,  Chicago  6  (Wom.-July)  7 

OF  INTEREST  TO  WOMEN 

MONEY  MAKING  OPPORTUNITIES 

$500  FOR  YOUR  Child's  Picture  (All  Ages).  Thousands  paid 
by  advertisers.  Send  one  small  picture.  Returned  with  judges' 
report.  Print  child's,  parents'  name,  address  on  back.  Spotlite, 
8346-P7,  Beverly,  Hollywood,  Calif. 

$200  MONTHLY  POSSIBLE,  Sewing  Babywear- Play-Time 
Dresses;  lacing  Leather  MocassinsI  New  Baby  Sandals!  No 
house  selling!  Rush  stamped,  addressed  envelope  for  further 
details.  Babygay,  Warsaw  1,  Indiana. 

GUARANTEED  HOMEWORK!  IMMEDIATECommissions! 
Free  Outfits!  Hirsch,  1301-12  Hoe,  New  York  City  59. 
HOMEWORKERS  WANTED  PAINTING  Novelties.  No  Sell- 
ing. N.  Roland,  Vincentown  1,  N.J. 

$15.00  THOUSAND  POSSIBLE,  copying  names  for  adver- 
tisers. Economy,  Clearwater  12,  Florida. 
$300.  MONTHLY  POSSIBLE  mailing  circulars.  John  Hall, 
1265-C  Broadway,  New  York  1,  N.Y. 

MAKE  $125.00  WEEKLY!  Preparing  Postcards.  Instructions 
$1.00.  (Refundable).  Ewell  Farley,  Ha/Ian,  Ky. 
$50.00  WEEKLY  POSSIBLE  Mailing  "Booklets".  Enterprises, 
526  S.  Western,  Chicago  12. 

$200.  MONTHLY  REPORTED,  preparing  envelopes,  post- 
cards, from   mailing   lists  at  home.   Longhand,  typewriter. 
Revealing  Information  25c!  Economy,  Clearwater  3,  Florida. 
$2.00  HOURLY  POSSIBLE  doing  light  assembly  work  at 

West  Third,  Los  Angeles  48,  Calif. 

COLLECTING  BOXTOPS,  LABELS-through  acquaintances, 
youngsters,    groups— for    Buyers— brings    monthly   checksl 
Publishers-F7,  Oceanside,  Calif. 

TOP  PRICES  PAID,  cutting  wanted  items  from  your  newspa- 
pers. Revealing  information  10c!  Economy,  Clearwater  29,  Fla. 
EARN  SPARETIME  CASH  Mailing  Advertising  Literature. 
Glenway,  Box  6568,  Cleveland  1,  Ohio. 
SEW  OUR  READY  cut  aprons  at  home,  spare  time.  Easy, 
profitable.  Hanky  Aprons,  Caldwell  3,  Ark. 
EARN  $50  FAST  sewing  our  precut  products.  Information  3c. 

$35  WEEKLY  PREPARING  envelopes.  Instructions  $1.  Re- 
fundable. Adservice,  Spring  Valley  151,  New  York. 
EXTRA  MONEY  PREPARING  Mailing  Postcards,  Gul,  1815 
Meyers,  Lombard,  Illinois. 

MAKE   YOUR  TYPEWRITER  Earn   Money.  Send   $1.00. 
Hughes,  7004  Diversey,  Chicago  35. 

HELP  WANTED 

BEAUTY  DEMONSTRATORS— TO  $5.00  hour  demonstrat- 
ing Famous  Hollywood  Cosmetics,  your  neighborhood.  For 
free  samples,  details,  write  Studio  Girl,  Dept.  1677C,  Glen- 
dale,  Calif. 

Thompson's,  Loganville,  Wisconsin. 

EARN  EXTRA  MONEY  selling  Advertising  Book  Matches. 

MAKE  MONEY  CLIPPING  Newspaper  Items  For  Publishers. 
Write,  Newscraft,  PW-983-E.  Main,  Columbus  5,  Ohio. 

Free  sample  kit  furnished.  Matchcorp,  Dept  WP-39,  Chicago 
32,  Illinois. 

RECEIVE  CASH  FOR  Boxtops,  Labels,  Wrappers,  CouponsI 
Write,  Boxtops,  PW-983-E.  Mam,  Columbus  5,  Ohio. 

HOMEWORK  ON  HAND-made  moccasins  and  bags.  Easy, 
Profitable.  California  Handicrafts,  Los  Angeles  46,  California. 

$30.00  WEEKLY  MAKING  Roses.  Easy,  Write  Studio  Comr 
pany,  Greenville  5,  Pa. 

SECRET  ORIENTAL  RECIPE.  Original  Turkish  Delight.  50c. 
"Delight",  Box  268,  Adelaide  St.,  Toronto,  Canada. 
LOANS  BY  MAIL 

EDUCATIONAL  OPPORTUNITIES 

COMPLETE  YOUR  HIGH  School  at  home  in  spare  time  with 
60-year-old  school.  Texts  furnished.  No  classes.   Diploma, 
Information    booklet   free.    American   School,    Dept.    XB74, 
Drexel  at  58th,  Chicago  37,  Illinois. 

BORROW  $50  TO  $500.  Employed  men  and  women  over  25, 
eligible.  Confidential— no  co-signers— no  inquiries  of  employ- 
ers or  friends.  Repay  in  monthly  payments  to  fit  your  income. 

HIGH   SCHOOL  DIPLOMA  at  home.  Licensed  teachers. 
Approved  materials.  Southern  States  Academy,  Box  144W. 
Station  E,  Atlanta,  Georgia. 

Supervised  by  State  of  Nebraska.  Loan  application  sent  free 
in  plain  envelope.  Give  occupation.  American  Loan  Plan, 
City  National  Bldg.,  Dept.  WD-7,  Omaha,  Nebraska. 
BUY  IT  WHOLESALE 

LEARN  WHILE  ASLEEP!  Detailsfree.  Research  Association, 
Box  610-WP,  Omaha. 

HOME  SEWERS  OPPORTUNITIES 

SEW   APRONS    IN    your   home,    profitably.    Write:   Adco, 
Bastrop,  Louisiana. 

SEW  BABY  SHOES  at  home!  $40  week  possible.  We  contact 
stores  for  you.  Tiny-Tot,  Gallipolis  19,  Ohio. 

BUSINESS  OPPORTUNITIES 

BUY  WHOLESALE!  30-80%  Discounts!  Appliances,  Gifts, 
Typewriters,  Tools,  Watches,  Sporting  Goods,  Jewelry,  Cam- 
eras, Housewares,  etc.  Consolidated  Distributors,  Clifton  17, 
New  Jersey. 

INSTRUCTION 

FINISH  HIGH  SCHOOL  at  home,  spare  time.  No  classes. 
Diploma  awarded.  Write  for  Free  catalog.  Wayne  School, 
Catalog  HCH-45,  2527  Sheffield,  Chicago  14. 

$$$$GROW  MUSHROOMS.  Cellar,  shed.  Spare,  full  time, 
year  round.  We  pay  $3.50  lb.  We  have  over  25,000  customers. 
Free    Book,    Mushrooms,    Dept.   412,    2954   Admiral    Way, 

FOREIGN  S   U.S.A.  JOB  LISTINGS 

Seattle,  Wash. 

HIGH  PAYING  JOBS:  Foreign,  USA.  All  trades.  Travel  paid. 

Information.  Application  forms.  Write  Dept.  21 B  National, 
1020  Broad,  Newark,  N.J. 

60%  PROFIT  COSMETICS  $25  day  up.  Hire  others.  Samples, 
details.  Studio  Girl-Hollywood,  Glendale,  Calif.,  Dept.  1677H. 

High  School  Course 

at  Home 


Many  Finish  in  2  Years 

Go  as  rapidly  as  your  time  and  abilities  permit.  Equivalent  to  resi- 
dent school  work— prepares  for  college  entrance  exams.  Standard 
H.  S.  texts  supplied.  Diploma  awarded.  Credit  for  H.  S.  subject* 
completed.  Single  subjects  if  desired.  Ask  for  Free  Bulletin. 

American  School,  Dept.  H  B53,  Drexel  at  58th,  Chicago  37 


SONG  POEMS  WANTED 

To  be  set  to  music.    Send  your  poems   today  for  free 
examination! 

J.  CHAS.  McNEIL,  (A.  B.  Master  of  Music) 
510-MG    So.    Alexandria  Los  Angeles  5,    Calif. 


Here's  the  easiest  way  to  make  extra 

money  in  spare  time !   Just  turn  the  pages 

~  our  bandy  album  and  41  beautiful  new 

Christmas  Cards  spring  to  life!   Friends 

buy  on  sight.  New  MAGICOLOR  cards  ^ 

pay  you  $65  profit  on  65  boxes.  Big 

variety  of  personalized  cards,  $1.00 

assortments, novel  gifts.  Profits tol00% 

plus  extra  cash  bonus.   24-hour  serv--5 

ice.  Write  for  FREE  Album,  and  samples 

approval,  plus  FREE  Gift  Offer. 

SOUTHERN  GREETINGS  Dept.  31  -C 

478  N.Hollywood  -  Memphis  12, Tenn. 


FR££ 


MATERNITY 
STYLE  CATALOG 


BIG  96-page  illustrated  catalog.  Hun- 
dreds of  exclusive,  economy- priced 
Maternity  Fashions.  FREE  GIFT  CHECK 
with  catalog  gives  EXTRA  discounts  on 
first  order.    World's   largest  selections  — 
Maternity  dresses,  suits,  separates,  sports* 
[  wear,  girdles,  bras,  lingerie.  $1.00  to  $20.00. 
Write  TODAY-CRAWFORD'S 
Dept.  35,    8015  Wornall  Rd.,  Kansas  City  14,  Missouri 


BeYourOwnMUSICTeacher 

LEARN  AT  HOME  THIS  MONEY  SAVING  WAY 

Simple  as  A-B-C.  Your  lessons  consist  of  real  selections,  in- 
stead of  tiresome  exercises.  You  read  real  notes — no  "num- 
bers" or  trick  music.  Some  of  our  900,000  students,  like 
Lawrence  Welk,  are  band  LEADERS.  Everything  is  in  print 
and  pictures.  First  you  are  told  what  to  do.  Then  a  picture 
shows  you  how.  Soon  you  are  playing:  the 
music  you  like.  Write  for  big  36  page 
Free  Book.  Mention  favorite  instrument. 
U.  S.  SCHOOL  OF  MUSIC,  Studio  A207, 
Port  Washington,  N.  Y.  (59th  Year). 


FREE 
BOOKLET 


*5 


f\f%  oo    PAID 

^/ V/  for  your  Child's  Photo 

CASH  payments  made  for  children's  photos,  all  types, 
ages  1  mo.  to  18  yrs.  by  national  advertisers.  Hundreds 
selected  every  month  for  use  in  advertising.  Send  ONE 
small  photo  for  approval.  Print  child's  and  mother's 
name,  address  on  back.  Also  2  FREE  gifts  for  photos 
selected.  Returned  2  weeks.  NO  OBLIGATION. 
AD-PH0T0S,    6087-HG    Sunset,    Hollywood    28,    Calif. 


w  to  ACT 

•MOVIES. THE  THEATRE*; 


Prepare  now.  at  home,  for  a  wonderful  acting  career!  Open 
the  door  that  may  bring  fabulous  Hollywood  or  New  York 
'  contracts  in  TV,  Movies,  the  Theater!  New  faces,  new  tal- 
ient,  are  urgently  needed!  Real  opportunity  for  men  and 
.  women  of  all  ages!  Learn  latest  acting  techniques,  direction, 
\  show  business  "success  secrets"!  Develop  new  poise  ,  vi- 
brant personality  as  you  mould  your  basic  talent.  We've 
I  helped  countless  others ...  let  us  show  you  the  way. 

rnrr  I  'Talent Aptitude'Teit.Nothinglikeitever!  Letsyou 
i  iHQl!    ro,e  Vour  ,a'ent  0Soins'  *s»udio  requirements." 

Write  for  FREE  "Test"*  "Success  Plan")  No  salesman  will  col/.^ 
I         •  HOILYWOOD  ROYAL  ACADEMY  • 
\  Studio  K6,       5880  Hollywood  Blvd.,  Hollywood  28,  Calif 


75 


My  13  Years  With  Jerry  Lewis 


(Continued  from  page  53) 
York  or  Los  Angeles.  I've  made  so  many 
round  trips  I  know  now  to  ask  for  a  seat 
on  the  right  or  the  left  side  of  the  plane, 
depending  on  which  direction  I'm  headed, 
so  I  avoid  sitting  in  the  sun  the  whole  trip. 

I'd  really  do  this  job  a  lot  better  if  I 
were  twins.  You  see,  when  Jerry's  playing 
a  date  in  New  York,  Miami,  Atlantic  City 
or  Chicago,  I  try  to  be  with  him  most  of 
the  week.  Then  I'll  hop  a  plane  for  Holly- 
wood, spend  the  weekend  at  home  with  the 
children — and,  on  Monday  morning,  I'm 
flying  again,  headed  back  to  Jerry. 

When  Jerry's  in  Las  Vegas,  I  spend  al- 
most more  time  in  the  air  than  I  do  on  the 
ground.  I  fly  home  Friday  afternoon,  pick 
up  the  children,  and  fly  back  to  Las  Vegas 
with  them  that  evening.  The  five  of  us 
spend  a  wild,  wonderful  weekend  together. 
Then,  on  Sunday  night,  I  fly  back  home 
with  them.  Monday  morning  finds  me  once 
more  in  the  air,  streaking  toward  Las 
Vegas  and  Jerry.  My  friends  tell  me  I'd 
save  myself  a  lot  of  time  and  trouble  if 
I'd  let  the  nurse  bring  the  children  up  on 
the  plane,  or  take  them  back  home.  But, 
for  some  crazy  reason,  I  can't  bear  the 
thought  of  them  getting  on  a  plane  unless 
I'm  there  to  watch  over  them. 

It's  a  good  thing  I  like  flying  and  the 
delicious  food  they  always  serve.  I  can 
sneak  in  a  snooze  or  catch  up  on  my  read- 
ing— and  I'm  soon  on  the  ground  again. 

1  his  flitting  about  the  country  is  very 
exciting,  because  I  get  a  chance  to  meet 
new  people  all  the  time  and,  most  im- 
portantly, I  have  the  chance  to  share  in 
Jerry's  happiness  doing  the  work  he  loves 
so  much.  Naturally,  I  love  puttering  around 
my  house  in  the  Pacific  Palisades,  but  the 
house  means  nothing  to  me  without  my 
husband.  However,  when  he  and  the  chil- 
dren and  I  are  all  together  in  our  beautiful 
home,  then  my  world  is  complete! 

When  Jerry  is  playing  a  date  in  New 
York,  for  instance,  we  take  a  small  apart- 
ment at  the  Essex  House.  It  has  a  tiny 
kitchen,  and  I  bought  an  electric  frying 
pan  to  use  there.  When  we  come  home 
from  the  last  show,  I  fix  up  some  scrambled 
eggs,  or  Jerry's  favorite  tomato-and-cheese 
sandwiches,  and  we  make  like  newlyweds 
all  over  again.  This  last  time,  before  I  left 
Jerry  to  come  home  for  a  weekend  with 
the  children,  I  cooked  up  a  big  casserole 
of  chicken  the  way  he  likes  it  best.  I  left 
it  in  the  refrigerator,  so  that,  when  he 
got  home  late  at  night,  he  could  have  his 
after-show  snack  just  as  he  likes  it,  even 
though  I  wasn't  there. 

A  lot  of  people  have  made  comments, 
both  in  print  and  out,  about  how  I 
shouldn't  "mother"  Jerry  so  much.  This  al- 
ways makes  me  smile  a  little.  If  folks 
would  just  think  a  bit,  they'd  realize  that, 
in  any  successful  marriage,  the  wife  does 
a  spot  of  mothering.  Maybe  more,  maybe 
less  of  it.  It  all  depends  on  how  much  of 
it  the  husband  requires. 

One  of  the  responsibilities  of  any  mother 
— whether    a    loi/e-mother    or    a    mother- 
mother — is    to    see    that    her    "offspring" 
matures,  grows  self-sufficient  and  able  to 
meet  life  head-on  by  himself.  This  is  not 
easy,  believe  me.  The  fact  that  Jerry  has 
matured  magnificently  in  the  thirteen  years 
we've  been  married  is  a  matter  of  con- 
siderable pride  to  me.  Not  that  it's  all  due 
to    my    direction — actually,    only    a    very 
small  part  of  it  can  I  claim  credit  for.  But 
the  satisfying  part  is  that  he  has  matured. 
T    Even  more  satisfying,  he  realizes  this  fact, 
v    and    realizes   what   part   I   played    in   his 
*    maturing.  His  giving  me  credit,   and  not 
taking  me  for  granted,  makes  it  all  very, 
very  worth  while. 
76 


There's  been  a  lot  written  in  the  last  few 
months  about  Jerry's  "new  maturity." 
Condensed  into  a  few  well-written  para- 
graphs, it  sounds  like  a  fairly  rapid,  rela- 
tively painless  metamorphosis,  and  an  ex- 
citing one  at  that.  And  the  impression 
probably  is  that  I  must  have  been  mighty 
thrilled  to  have  a  front-row-center  seat 
while  the  whole  admirable  change  was  go- 
ing on. 

Oh,  I  was  thrilled,  all  right.  In  fact,  I 
don't  suppose  there's  anyone  who  gets 
more  deep  and  abiding  satisfaction  out  of 
the  new  look  in  Jerry's  eyes,  the  look 
which  says,  in  a  surprised  way,  "Hey,  I'm 
me,  Jerry  Lewis — a  Something,  and  they 
like  me!" 

I  fell  in  love  with,  and  married,  a  won- 
derful, wild  boy  of  eighteen.  I  expected 
him  to  grow  up,  soon,  into  a  wonderful 
(and  probably  still  wild)  man.  But  he  kept 
on  being  a  boy.  It  took  Jerry  nearly  nine 
years  to  grow  up  to  be  that  man.  I'd  have 
been  inhuman  if  I  hadn't  run  out  of 
patience  with  him,  now  and  then,  along 
the  way. 

In  fact,  I  am  not  always  a  patient  woman, 
really.  I  can  blow  up  as  easily  as  anyone. 
But — when  you  love  a  man,  and  really  try 
to  understand  him — you  find  within  your- 
self funds  of  patience  you  never  dreamed 
existed.  That  is  why,  I  suppose,  I've  been 
able  to  put  up  with  most  of  the  zany  things 
this  Lewis  guy  has  pulled,  over  the  years. 

Oh,  I  won't  say  I've  never  been  mad  at 
him.  After  all,  I'm  Italian  by  birth,  and 
no  one  ever  accused  Italians  of  being 
placid,  stolid,  phlegmatic  creatures.  But, 
just  when  he's  made  me  simply  furious, 
he'll  do  something  funny — and  I  can't  de- 
cide whether  to  laugh  or  cry.  I  don't  know 
how  many  times  I've  snapped  at  him,  "Get 
out  of  this  room,  you  big  lug,  until  I  decide 
whether  I'm  going  to  laugh  at  you  or  cry 
over  you!" 

I  don't  know  why  I  bother,  really.  I 
almost  always  end  up  laughing. 

Some  of  the  "mads"  didn't  always  end 
up  with  laughter  ...  at  least,  not  right 
away.  A  couple  of  times,  I  even  walked  out 
on  him.  But  only  to  be  able  to  get  far 
enough  away  to  cool  off,  to  think  things 
over.  I  always  realized  what  had  made 
him  act  as  he  did.  And  I  always  figured 
that,  if  I'd  be  patient  just  a  little  while 
longer,  he'd  make  it!  And  he  did.  Looking 
back,  even  those  rough  spots  seem  well 
worth  while,  now. 

Most  of  my  "mads"  have  been  caused 
by  the  way  Jerry  drives  himself.  He  isn't 
really  well,  you  know.  He  was  in  bed  for 
seventy-two  days  last  year,  with  hepatitis. 
And  he's  got  the  kind  of  heart  which  is 
sensitive  to  nicotine.  So  he  drinks  very 
little,  and  smokes  only  lightly.  But,  in 
other  ways,  he  abuses  himself. 

When  he  was  playing  his  date  at  the 
Palace  in  New  York  last  winter,  for  in- 
stance. .  .  .  The  last  show  was  over  at 
eleven  P.M.,  and  we'd  sit  around  in  the 
dressing  room  for  a  while,  waiting  for  him 
to  cool  off,  and  for  the  stage-door  crowd 
to  thin  out.  We  could  have  made  it  back 
to  the  apartment  by  one  A.M.,  easily.  But 
no — most  of  the  time,  he'd  want  to  go  out 
to  a  night  club,  where  we'd  sit  and  talk 
shop  with  some  other  show-business  peo- 
ple until  all  hours.  Even  if  we  did  go  to 
the  apartment,  he  was  all  for  sitting  up 
and  talking,  or  watching  television,  until 
three  or  four  o'clock. 

I  worked  out  a  pretty  good  system, 
though,  for  that  one.  Whenever  I  could  get 
him  back  to  the  apartment  right  after  the 
show,  I'd  casually  suggest,  "Hey,  why  don't 
you  climb  into  bed  and  watch  television, 
while  I  fix  you  a  snack?"  Just  getting  him 
into  bed  was  the  trick.  Once  between  the 


sheets,  he  was  off  to  sleep  in  five  minutes. 
Half  the  time  he  wouldn't  even  stay  awake 
long  enough  to  eat  the  snack  I'd  fixed. 

It's  really  easier  when  he's  making  a 
picture.  Then  he's  at  home  for  several 
months  at  a  time.  He  goes  off  to  the  studio 
fairly  early  in  the  morning,  but  he's  home 
for  dinner  nearly  every  evening. 

We  have  a  quiet  dinner,  generally  alone. 
That's  because  Jerry  gets  home  from  the 
studio  about  seven,  and  Gary  and  Ronnie 
are  always  "starved"  by  five  or  five-thirty. 
So  it's  just  simpler  to  see  to  their  dinner 
when  they  want  it.  Besides,  this  gives 
Jerry  and  me  a  few  precious  minutes  alone 
together.  There  are  few  enough  of  these  in 
any  household  with  children — and,  what 
with  all  the  extra  distractions  our  house- 
hold groans  under,  we  must  snatch  these 
■  times  when  we  can.  The  boys  are  generally 
deeply  involved  in  one  of  their  early- 
evening  TV  shows  at  this  hour,  and  don't 
mind  waiting  until  after  dinner  for  their 
romp  with  Dad. 

When  Jerry  and  the  children  romp  in 
the  living  room,  Mommy  is  always  called 
upon  to  act  as  referee.  I'm  also  the  "official 
pianist"  when  they  have  a  singing  contest. 
And  when  they  go  off  for  baseball  in  the 
lot  next  door,  I'm  always  on  hand  to 
applaud  a  good  catch  or  a  well-hit  ball. 
Nothing  gives  me  greater  pleasure  than  to 
see  my  two  sons  and  husband  enjoying 
themselves  together,  and  I  can't  wait  for 
the  day  when  Scotty  is  old  enough  to  join 
in  the  fun.  My  being  with  them  means  my 
little  family  circle  is  complete. 

Once  the  boys  are  packed  off  to  bed,  we 
settle  down — like  'most  every  married 
couple  across  the  country — with  the  paper, 
the  new  magazines  which  came  in  the  mail 
that  day,  a  new  book,  and  the  television. 
Once  in  a  while,  Jerry  will  have  a  script 
to  study.  But,  most  of  the  time,  he  stretches 
out  on  the  couch,  and  watches  television. 

The  difference  here  is  that  we  are  doing 
something  which,  to  us,  is  sheer  luxury! 
Because — to  the  Jerry  Lewises — it  amounts 
to  Behaving  Like  People.  It's  a  welcome 
change  from  the  mad  routine  of  night-club 
or  theater  appearances,  when  evenings  are 
spent  sweating  out  the  hours  between 
shows  in  dreary  dressing  rooms. 

Like  half  the  husbands  in  the  country, 
Jerry  never  gets  to  see  how  the  late  movie 
ends — he  falls  asleep  halfway  through.  As 
a  matter  of  fact,  he's  lucky  if  he  sees  how 
the  late  movie  begins.  It's  not  unusual  for 
him  to  conk  out  before  the  ten-o'clock 
news.  I  sit  there  and  read,  or  watch,  until 
I'm  sleepy.  Then,  I  generally  just  take  a 
robe,  cover  him  snugly,  and  off  to  bed  I 
go.  I  swear  I  never  make  any  noise,  and  I 
leave  the  television  set  going  so  that  the 
sudden  silence  won't  waken  him.  But  he 
seems  to  sense  when  I've  left  the  room. 
Five  minutes  after  I've  crawled  into  bed, 
he  trails  right  along. 

I  don't  think  he  ever  really  wakes  up 
then,  even  so.  He  undresses  all  the  way 
from  the  den  to  the  bedroom — you  can 
track  him  next  morning  by  the  trail  of 
shoes,  socks,  et  cetera.  I  must  remember, 
some  night,  to  cross  him  up,  hide  out 
somewhere,  and  watch  that  sleep-walking 
strip-tease.  I'll  bet  it's  as  funny  as  any  of 
his  on-stage  acts. 

Anyway  .  .  .  the  times  he's  in  Holly- 
wood making  a  picture — like  when  he  was 
here  last  winter  doing  "Delicate  Delin- 
quent" and,  this  spring,  working  on  "Sad 
Sack"  (both  down  on  the  Paramount  lot) — 
are  the  happiest  for  all  of  us. 

Leading  the  kind  of  a  life  I  do — part  of 
the  time  at  home  and  part  of  the  time  on 
the  road — can  be  pretty  rough.  I  don't 
mind  the  temporary  quarters  we  put  up 


with  when  Jerry's  playing  a  date  some- 
where . . .  actually,  they're  generally  quite 
comfortable,  even  luxurious.  I  don't  mind 
sitting  backstage  in  the  drafty  wings  while 
he  does  a  show — this  is  a  thrill  which  will 
never  wear  thin  for  me.  The  only  heart- 
ache for  me  is  having  half  of  me,  my  chil- 
dren, separated  from  me  by  the  width  of  a 
continent.  And  at  a  time  in  their  lives 
when  every  minute  away  from  them  means 
I'm  missing  some  of  the  fun  of  watching 
them  grow  up.  They  get  away  from  you 
too  fast  as  it  is,  these  days,  without  your 
missing  great  chunks  of  their  life,  as  I 
must. 

But  Jerry  needs  me  too — and  when  I  do 
come  home  to  be  with  the  children  for  a 
while,  I  still  feel  like  half  a  person,  want- 
ing to  be  where  he  is.  I  tell  you,  it  could 
tear  you  in  two,  if  you'd  let  it! 

The  boys  are  getting  old  enough  now 
that  they  miss  Jerry  terribly  when  he's 
gone.  The  last  time  I  flew  back  to  New 
York  to  join  Jerry,  after  spending  a  week- 
end with  the  boys,  Gary  (who's  eleven 
and  a-half  now)  handed  me  an  envelope. 
"I  wrote  Dad  a  note.  Will  you  give  it  to 
him?"  I  promised  that  I  would  and,  since 
it  was  sealed,  I  didn't  read  it  but  handed 
it  over  to  Jerry  unopened. 

I  thought  poor  Dad  would  weep  when  he 
finished  reading  the  note,  so  painstakingly 
written  in  Gary's  still  unformed  scrawl.  It 
was  all  about  how  he  missed  his  dad,  but 
how  he  knew  it  was  necessary  for  him  to 
be  away  from  home  to  make  our  living. 
And  it  wound  up:  "But  no  matter  how  far 
away  you  are,  somehow  I  feel  you  are  al- 
ways near  me!" 

Everyone  always  comments  on  Gary's 
resemblance  to  Jerry.  That  resemblance  is 
more  than  physical — Gary  is  a  terrific  ham, 
"onstage"  every  chance  he  gets.  He  has  a 
wonderful  sense  of  timing,  for  a  youngster, 
and  I'll  admit  he's  clowned  his  way  out  of 
some  discipline  due  him,  now  and  then. 
Ronnie  (now  seven)  is  very  different — we 
like  to  think  he's  the  "brain"  of  our  trio. 
In  the  curious  way  adopted  children  often 
have,  of  becoming  like  their  adoptive  par- 
ents, he  is  beginning  to  look  a  little  like 
Jerry,  too.  And  he  tries  so  hard  to  be  the 
comic,  mimicking  Jerry  and  Gary.  We 
laugh  at  the  proper  places,  but  Jerry  al- 
ways reminds  him,  "You're  going  to  be 
the  lawyer  in  the  family!" 

Now  that  they're  growing  up,  they  need 
Jerry  more  and  more.  Boys  that  age  begin 
to  have  a  fairly  low  opinion  of  being  dom- 
inated by  a  woman  all  the  time.  I  suppose 
they  think,  in  their  new  maturity,  that  it's 
"sissy"  to  take  orders  from  a  woman. 
Which  is  not  to  say  that  the  boys  don't 
mind  me,  or  that  they  resent  me.  They 
mind  as  well  or  as  badly  as  the  average,  I 
suppose.  And  the  times  they  "resent"  me 
are  the  times  any  small  male  will  resent 
any  grown  female  issuing  edicts.  But  with 
Jerry,  it's  different.  Dad  can  do  no  wrong 
— all  his  decisions  are  as  wise  as  Solomon's. 
And,  if  he  says  something,  that's  it!  Final, 
period,  amen. 

Jerry  has  trained  me  to  the  point  where 
I  can  make  decisions  for  the  boys  when 
he's  not  around  and,  since  I  have  great 
respect  for  my  husband's  opinions,  I  try 
to  do  what  I  feel  he  would  wish  done.  But 
when  a  problem  gets  especially  tough  for 
me,  I  simply  pick  up  the  phone,  with  both 
my  sons  on  extensions,  and  we  talk  it  out 
as  though  we  were  all  in  the  same  room. 
Other  times,  when  Jerry  and  I  are  both  in 
New  York,  Gary  knows  that  all  he  needs 
to  do  is  phone  us,  if  he  gets  lonesome  or 
wants  to  ask  some  important  question 
(such  as  can  he  go  to  the  movies  on  a 
school  night) .  At  any  rate,  it  all  works  out 
beautifully  and  there  are  no  hard  feelings. 

I  try  to  toss  in  as  many  "substitutes"  as 
I  can.  This  last  weekend,  for  instance,  I 
took  Gary  and  a  pal  to  Disneyland  for  a 


merry,  mad  day.  Ronnie  was  supposed  to 
be  in  the  party,  but  he  carelessly  picked 
up  a  virus  the  day  before  and  felt  so  rocky 
that,  at  his  own  suggestion,  he  was  given 
a  rain-check  and  stayed  behind.  The  boys 
had  fun,  that  was  obvious.  Except  I  kept 
•  thinking  how  much  more  fun  they  might 
have  had  if  we  all  could  have  gone. 

Jerry  realizes  the  way  he  has  had  to 
short-change  the  boys.  And  he's  working 
toward  the  time  when  he  can  spend  the 
bulk  of  the  year  out  here,  with  only  oc- 
casional engagements   at   other  places. 

It  isn't  easy  for  him,  either,  being  sepa- 
rated from  the  boys.  Far  from  it.  If  any- 
thing, I  think  he  misses  home  more  than 
I  do,  when  we're  away.  Because  this  is 
the  first  real,  solid,  permanent-type  home 
he's  ever  known.  This  is  the  first  tightly- 
knit,  comfortable  family  relationship  he's 
enjoyed.  When  I  wave  goodbye  to  him  in 
New  York,  you've  never  seen  anything 
look  so  forlorn  and  all  alone. 

In  fact,  Jerry  wrote  just  the  other  day 
that  he'd  got  so  horribly  lonesome  he'd 
gone  out  and  bought  a  dog,  just  to  have 
something  alive  in  the  apartment  when  he 
came  home  at  night.  Of  course,  we  already 
have  six  dogs,  one  cat,  and  assorted  other 
livestock  the  boys  have  accumulated — so 
we  really  needed  that  dog!  But  I  under- 
stand how  Jerry  probably  did  need  it  .  .  . 
temporarily! 

So  now,  when  I  go  back  to  New  York, 
I'll  have  Jerry,  and  the  baby,  and  the  dog, 
to  take  care  of  .  .  .  and  you  know  what? 
I'll  love  it.  It's  fun,  watching  Jerry  with 
that  baby.  As  everyone  knows  perfectly 
well,  we  were  absolutely  sure  No.  3  would 
be  a  girl.  But  I  say  now  that  I  think  the 
good  Lord  had  a  hand  in  it.  He  knew 
Jerry  simply  couldn't  survive  having  a 
girl-baby.  Jerry's  delirious  enough  about 
this  boy-baby — and  I've  heard  all  about 
how  dads  behave  with  daughters! 

Viewers  who  have  never  known  a  come- 
dian off-stage  probably  grow  to  think  of 
him  as  a  buffoon,  with  never  a  care  in  his 
head,  with  a  quip  and  a  laugh  from  break- 
fast to  midnight  snack.  But  from  all  I  can 
gather,  after  thirteen  years'  experience, 
comedians  (at  least,  my  comedian)  are 
probably  the  most  sensitive,  the  moodiest, 
and  the  most  sentimental  characters  in  a 
business  peopled  by  sensitive,  moody,  sen- 
timental people.  Not  just  Jerry.  Most  co- 
medians are  like  that.  And  if,  like  Jerry, 
they're  in  the  process  of  proving  them- 
selves, of  making  their  name  and  establish- 
ing their  reputation — then  the  sensitivity, 
the  moodiness,  and  the  sentimentality  all 
go  double. 

I  sometimes  wonder  what  it  would  be 
like  to  be  married  to  a  man  with  an  even 
disposition.  One  who  wakes  up  every 
morning  feeling  placid,  and  relaxed,  and 
rested.  One  who  neither  goes  off  into  gales 
of  laughter,  nor  nears  the  point  of  hunting 
out  an  open  window  in  the  Empire  State 
Building.  I  think  about  it  .  .  .  and  then  I 
decide  it  would  probably  be  pretty  dull, 
being  married  to  someone  like  that. 

Because,  in  the  last  thirteen  years,  I 
have  crawled  up  out  of  the  deepest,  black- 
est holes  with  Jerry,  watched  him  fight  his 
way  out  of  frighteningly  depressing  moods, 
had  him  cry  on  my  shoulder  more  than 
once.  And  I  have  watched  him  come  off 
stage  positively  glowing  with  happiness, 
because  some  warm,  wonderful  audience 
loved  every  clowning  moment  he  was  on. 

I've  hit  the  bottom,  at  times,  during  those 
thirteen  years.  But,  more  important,  I've 
had  more  chances  at  the  top.  And  I 
wouldn't  trade  any  one  of  those  thirteen 
up-and-down  years  for  a  lifetime  with 
some    placid,    smooth- sailing   type. 

Being  married  to  a  comedian  may  not 
guarantee  365  days  a  year  full  of  laughter. 
But  it  can  guarantee  365  days  annually 
without  a  dull  one  in  the  lot! 


^ 


Write  it  for  the  TRUE  ROMANCE 
Magazine   Song   Contest   and   win 

$500  plus  possible  motion  picture, 
song  sheet  and  recording  royalties. 
Your  collaborator  will  be  the  com- 
poser of  "Body  and  Soul"  and  the 
score  and  title  song  of  MGM's 
"Raintree  County,"  JOHNNY 
GREEN,  a  member  of  the  Ameri- 
can Society  of  Composers,  Authors 
and  Publishers  (ASCAP),  under 
contract  to  Robbins,  Feist  and 
Miller,  publishers   (ASCAP). 


Johnny   Green 

Don't  miss  this  exciting  song-writ- 
ing contest. 

You  write  the  lyrics — JOHNNY 
GREEN  (ASCAP)  3-time  Academy 
Award  Winner,  will  set  the  winning 
lyrics  to  music.  See  the  current  issue 
of  TRUE  ROMANCE  Magazine  for 
contest  details  and  rules. 


AT  NEWSSTANDS  NOW 


77 


(Continued  from  page  42) 
have  this  shade  hair  and  that  color  eyes — 
bunk!  The  only  color  eyes  I  don't  care 
for  on  a  girl  is  red.  That  means  she's  been 
crying  or  dissipating  too  much.  What 
counts  with  me  is  the  ■way  those  eyes 
behave.  I  go  for  eyes  that  look  straight  at 
you  and  try  to  understand  what  you're 
saying.  That  flirty  sidelong  stuff  with  the 
fluttery  lids — well,  that's  for  the  birds!" 
Taking  Tommy  at  his  word  that  he 
favors  no  one  type,  it  is  interesting  to 
gaze  into  the  crystal  ball  and  try  to  see 
what  sort  of  girl  is  likely  to  dominate  his 
future.  Three  girls  are  known  to  have 
been  closely  linked  to  him  at  one  time 
or  another.  Are  there  any  traits  they  have 
in  common?  In  what  respects  are  they 
different?  How  do  they  add  up  when 
their  personalities  are  crossed  to  form 
a  composite  image?  In  short,  Who  is  the 
girl  in  Tommy's  future? 

Lynn  Trosper  of  Greenwood,  Louisiana, 
was  only  three  when  she  caught  the  eye  of 
our  young  hero.  Tommy  was  then  four. 
They  took  part  in  a  wedding  shower  and 
were  given  the  pleasant  duty  of  wheeling 
in  the  gifts.  It  must  have  touched  a  chord. 
They  promptly  invented  a  marriage  of  their 
own.  As  with  all  well- wed  couples,  Tommy 
went  out  to  earn  the  wherewithall — "the 
fanciest  collection  of  mud  pies  ever  seen" 
— while  his  bride  "poured  tea"  in  regal 
splendor. 

Lynn  was  his  first  true  love,  and  he  be- 
came a  standard  fixture  at  the  spacious, 
dignified  Trosper  home,  which  he  still 
calls  "the  big  house."  Now,  what  sort  of 
girl  is  Lynn?  She  is  a  blue-eyed  brown- 
ette,  an  active  and  studious  type  quick  to 
laughter  or  sympathy,  poised  but  pert. 
Like  her  mother,  Mrs.  Florence  Trosper, 
she  shows  a  capacity  for  being  both  a 
homemaker  and  a  community  leader 
devoted  to  causes  that  transcend  her  per- 
sonal interests.  She  is  equally  at  home 
on  a  horse,  in  a  drawing  room  or  at  a 
library.  With  it  all,  she  has  a  certain  air 
of  breeding  and  awareness  of  her  pre- 
rogatives that  stamp  her  at  once  as  the 
best  type  of  "young  Southern  lady."  At 
nineteen,  she  attends  Shreveport  Cen- 
tenary College  and  toys  with  tike  idea  of 
becoming  a  teacher.  "Whatever  I'll  finally 
do,"  she  says,  "I'll  do  it  with  all  that's  in 
me." 

An  intriguing  sidelight  was  cast  on  this 
girl  when  she  was  interviewed  with  re- 
gard to  her  childhood  romance.  "What  do 
you  think  of  your  Tommy  now?"  she  was 
asked.  "My  Tommy?"  she  echoed,  puzzled. 
Lynn  broke  into  a  hearty  laugh,  "Here 
in  Greenwood  and  Shreveport,  we  think 
of  him  as  our  Tommy.  He's  a  credit  to 
all  of  us  already,  as  we  like  to  think  we 
have  some  small  share  in  his  career.  As 
for  romance,  I  know  I  teased  him  dread- 
fully as  a  child — but  we're  too  much  like 
brother  and  sister  for  anything  like  that." 
Tommy's  second  flame  was  cute  Betty 
Moers,  also  brown-haired  and  blue-eyed. 
Presently  completing  her  education  in 
Houston,  she  is  the  daughter  of  a  success- 
ful physician,  Dr.  Arthur  Moers,  whose 
wife  still  enjoys  working  as  receptionist 
and  assistant  in  her  husband's  office. 
Betty  is  very  likely  to  follow  her  mother's 
example  and  seek  the  satisfaction  of 
work  well  done.  She  first  crossed  Tommy's 
path  on  a  blind  date  while  they  were 
juniors  at  Lamar  High  School.  Light- 
hearted,  witty  and  deliciously  feminine 
in  dress  and  manner,  Betty  was  described 
T  by  a  former  classmate  as  "getting  her  full 
v  portion  of  wolf  whistles  when  she  comes 
•  tripping  by — but  get  this  straight,  they're 
respectful    wolf    whistles!"    Her    laughter 


The  Girl  Tommy  Marries 

feeling  with  gaiety.  Her  soft  voice  prom- 
ises a  relaxed  and  earnest  conversation, 
and  her  trim  figure  reveals  the  skillful 
grace  of  a  trained  dancer.  For  Betty  has 
studied  modern  dance  and,  in  fact,  she 
performed  in  "Annie,"  the  high-school 
musical   that   starred    Tommy   Sands. 

From  her  father,  Betty  has  apparently 
inherited  an  unusual  reserve  of  energy 
and  will.  Once  she  has  explored  the  facts 
and  drawn  a  conclusion  based  on  them, 
she  will  act  and  act  firmly.  It  was  this 
quality  that  decided  her  against  going 
on  with  her  dating  of  Tommy.  By  her  own 
account,  she  found  it  hard  to  adjust  to  be- 
ing the  girl  friend  of  a  young  entertainer 
who  had  to  "be  here  today  and  there 
tomorrow,"  and  who  obviously  was  be- 
coming a  target  for  scores  of  smitten  girls. 

Their  parting  was  an  unforgettable  and 
heartbreaking  experience.  It  points  sig- 
nificantly at  the  words  in  Tommy's  hit 
song,  "Don't  call  it  a  teen-age  crush."  To 
Betty  and  Tommy,  it  was  far  more  than 
that.  Talking  about  it  now,  Tommy's  face 
saddens.  "You  know  what's  hit  me  as  the 
most  awful  thing  about  life?"  he  says,  "It's 
the  way  we  can  get  used  to  'most  anything. 
We  learn  to  live  with  our  disappointments 
and  troubles — and,  after  a  while,  we  even 
get  to  believe  it  all  happened  for  the  best. 
Maybe!" 

And  Betty,  with  her  clear  blue  eyes 
and  clever  laugh?  She,  too,  adds  a  quiet, 
"Maybe  .  .  ."  and  goes  on  to  explain: 
"You  see,  Tommy  was  lucky  in  finding 
himself  so  early.  He  knew  as  a  child  that 
he'd  stick  with  show  business.  But  I'm 
still  searching,  groping  ...  I  could  never 
be  satisfied  to  be  nothing  but  a  tiny  part 
of  a  husband's  career.  I  want  to  be  some- 
one on  my  own,  to  achieve  something. 
Sometimes  I  look  at  the  compact-cigarette 
case  Tommy  gave  me  when  we  were  going 
steady.  And  I  wonder — what  if  he  had  been 
a  law  student  or  a  young  newspaperman, 
instead  of  an  entertainer  always  on  the 
go?  Would  things  have  turned  out  dif- 
ferently? But  then,  if  Tommy  had  been 
any  different,  I'd  probably  not  have  felt 
so  deeply  about  him.  No,  I  wouldn't  want 
to  change  him  or  have  him  change  be- 
cause of  me.  And  I  couldn't  be  anything 
but  the  girl  I  am,  without  losing  self- 
respect.  So  maybe,  when  all's  said  and 
done,  it  did  happen  for  the  best." 

Like  the  Trospers,  Betty  and  her  family 
still  retain  their  fondness  for  Tommy 
and  consider  him  "one  of  us."  As  Betty 
puts  it,  "He  will  always  be  a  very  special 
thing  to  us.  And,  whoever  she  may  be,  the 
girl  that  gets  Tommy  will  get  a  very  rare 
fellow.  He  has  a  heart  as  great  as  his 
talent,  and  he  will  do  his  level  best  to 
make  his  wife   and  family  happy." 


78 


is  contagious  and  seems  to  combine  deep 


More  Vacation  Music 

Exciting  new  stories  and  pictures  of 

POLLY  BERGEN 
CAROL  RICHARDS 

of  The  Bob  Crosby  Show 
ana' 

COUNTRY  MUSIC  COMES  TO  TOWN! 

all  in  the  August  issue  of 

TV  RADIO  MIRROR 

at  your  newsstand  July  5 


So  much  for  the  past.  What  now?  Is 
there  any  girl  at  present  who  might  sum 
up — as  Lynn  and  Betty  did  in  earlier 
stages — the  way  his  taste  is  turning?  Just 
what  sort  of  girls  does  he  favor  for  his 
dates?  Well,  first  it  must  be  said  that 
Tommy  has  had  little  opportunity  to  date 
at  all  during  his  year  in  Hollywood.  At 
first,  he  was  kept  "on  the  jump,"  making 
the  rounds  of  producers,  agents,  and  stu- 
dios, trying  with  furious  zeal  to  get  his 
foot  in  the  door.  Now,  he  is  being  pulled 
this  way  and  that  by  people  who  press 
him  to  go  on  various  TV  and  radio  shows, 
to  cut  more  records,  to  do  movies,  to  make 
personal  appearances,  to  take  and  auto- 
graph pictures,  to  give  more  time  to  his 
mushrooming  fan  clubs,  to  hold  more 
interviews  with  the  press,  and  so  on. 

The  only  girl  in  filmland  he  has  dated 
with  some  regularity  is  Molly  Bee.  The 
teen-aged  blond  singer,  who  has  lent  both 
glamour  and  gusto  to  Cliffie  Stone's  Home- 
town Jamboree  and  the  Tennessee  Ernie 
Ford  Show,  is  the  most  spectacular  of 
Tommy's  dates — perhaps  because  her  pro- 
fession requires  her  to  be  spectacular.  For 
what  it  is  worth  to  those  who  have  been 
watching  this  pair  for  a  sign  of  budding 
romance,  Molly  was  our  young  man's 
choice  as  his  companion  the  night  he 
sang  "Thee  I  Love"  (from  "The  Friendly 
Persuasion")  at  the  Oscar  awards  show. 
On  the  other  hand,  aside  from  her  blue 
eyes,  Molly  does  not  conform  to  the  pat- 
tern Tommy  has  followed  in  his  dates  up 
to  now.  She  is  as  colorful  as  the  toreador 
pants  she  loves  to  swank  about  in,  and 
her  performances  usually  bring  forth  a 
hail  of  tributes  that  abound  in  words  like 
"sparkling"  and  "zippy."  This  is  especi- 
ally nice  for  her,  since  she  still  likes  to 
present  herself  and  her  songs  with  a 
country  flavor,  like  champagne  poured 
from  a  cider  jug. 

It  is  always  hard  to  foresee  the  course 
of  a  young  man's  fancy.  Every  month  is 
liable  to  produce  a  new  variation  or 
change.  If  this  is  true,  then  Molly  Bee 
may  signify  a  turn  in  the  path  Tommy 
has  been  taking.  But — if  his  taste  runs 
true  to  form — then  the  girl  in  the  crystal 
ball  may  emerge  along  these  lines: 

Physically,  she  is  likely  to  prove  small, 
cute,  blue-eyed  and  dainty.  She  will 
probably  be  graceful  in  her  movements, 
quietly  musical  in  her  speech,  and  poised 
in  her  manner.  She  will  undoubtedly  be 
the  type  who  attracts  attention  for  her 
ladylike  taste  and  bearing  over  and  above 
beauty,  exotic  clothes  or  stunning  hairdos. 
It  is  worth  mentioning  here  that,  at  the 
Oscar  awards,  he  expressed  his  admiration 
in  public  for  Deborah  Kerr,  who  is  uni- 
versally esteemed  for  her  knack  of  pro- 
jecting allure  without  losing  gentility. 

The  girl  of  Tommy's  choice — providing 
he  doesn't  change — will  also  be  of  an 
independent  frame  of  mind.  She  may  or 
may  not  be  a  career  woman,  but  she 
certainly  will  have  a  serious  concern  with 
matters  of  artistic,  social-welfare,  political 
or  even  religious  scope.  She  will  have  an 
exquisite  sense  of  humor  and  a  fine  edu- 
cation or  professional  training.  It  is  more 
than  likely  she  will  make  his  home  a 
castle  of  family  security  and  of  release 
from  the  tensions  of  work.  As  Tommy 
himself  puts  it,  "No  matter  how  far  my 
work  takes  me,  I'm  the  pigeon  who'll 
always  fly  home  to  roost." 

Quite  surely,  the  future  Mrs.  Tommy 
Sands  will  be  the  kind  of  woman  who  can 
walk  with  charm,  tact  and  determination 
on  any  level  of  society  at  any  time — the 
kind  whose  proud  husband  will  always 
know  that  people  are  saying,  "That  lady 
is  his  wife  .  .  ." 


M 


WHAT'S  NEW  ON  THE  EAST  COAST 


(Continued  from  page  9) 


We  are  going  to  be  stuffed  with  fairy 
tales  until  they  come  out  of  our  pink 
ears.  NBC  is  readying  Pinocchio,  Pied 
Piper  and  Hans  Brinker.  CBS  will 
lead  off  with  Aladdin.  And  Shirley 
Temple  will  narrate,  probably  on  NBC- 
TV,  twenty  hour-long  fairy  tales.  Cow- 
boys, crime  and  fairy  tales. 

Battin'  the  Breeze:  Those  delighted 
with  Anne  Jeffreys  and  hubby  Bob 
Sterling  in  Topper  will  be  delighted  to 
hear  they're  shooting  a  new  comedy 
series.  .  .  .  All  of  the  La  Rosa  buddies 
distressed  by  premature  loss  of  baby. 
.  .  .  Plan  to  stay  home  night  of  No- 
vember 25th.  Mary  Martin  stars  in  the 
jubilant  "Annie  Get  Your  Gun."  .  .  . 
Isn't  Durward  Kirby  prime  to  do  an 
audience  participation  show  of  his 
own?  .  .  .  Wonderful  Martha  Wright 
named  her  newborn  "Mike"  after  her 
husband's  nickname.  Hubby  is  res- 
taurateur George  "Mike"  Manuche.. . . 
Martha  Raye  enthusiastic  about  pilot 
film  starring  her  as  Baby  Snooks,  the 
character  created  by  Fanny  Brice. 

About  Men  Only:  Jack  Lescoulie  wrote 
himself  a  Broadway-type  play.  .  .  . 
Sam  Levenson  says,  "A  joke  isn't  a 
joke  until  they  laugh."  .  .  .  Rumor  rife 
that  Gordon  MacRae  may  head  a  musi- 
cal variety  for  Lux  next  fall  in  addition 
to  his  emcee  chores  on  Video  Theater. 
.  .  .  Jimmy  Dean,  star  emcee  of  CBS- 
TV  Country  Style,  angry  at  inference 
he's  chosen  his  name  to  cash  in  on 
fame  of  actor  James  Dean.  Jimmy  (the 


live  one)  was  born  in  Plainfield,  Texas, 
1928,  and  christened  "Jimmy  Dean"  and 
has  been  singing  professionally  as  such 
since  1948.  .  . .  John  Cameron  Swayze, 
also,  says  it  isn't  so.  He  denies  using 
a  tie  once  and  discarding  it.  He's  just 
as  thrifty  as  the  next  man.  .  .  .  One  who 
admits  it  "is  so"  is  Lionel  Wilson, 
bachelor  actor.  Lionel  admits  that  al- 
most at  any  time  he  is  up  to  a  hundred 
different  voices  on  the  air.  On  many 
of  those  cartoon  commercials,  Lionel 
is  all  of  the  voices.  On  toothpaste  ads, 
for  example,  he  is  both  the  villain  (Mr. 
Decay)  and  the  hero  (Mr.  Toothpaste). 
He's  both  rabbits  for  a  laundry  starch 
and  a  couple  million  other  things  for 
other  commercials.  He  has  starred  in 
several  Broadway  plays  and  acted  in 
Valiant  Lady,  Search  For  Tomorrow 
and  practically  all  of  the  top  dramatic 
shows.  On  radio,  he  once  did  a  perfect 
imitation  of  Ilona  Massey's  sultry  sex- 
tones  while  continuing  as  the  private 
eye  in  the  same  script.  That  was  on 
NBC's  Top  Secret.  Lionel,  a  very 
eligible  bachelor,  counts  among  his 
close  friends  Jimmy  Kirkwood  and 
Kathy  McGuire  and  Dolores  Sutton. 
He  lives  alone  in  a  Manhattan  apart- 
ment, although  he  was  born  right  across 
the  river  in  Brooklyn.  "I  got  a  lucky 
start  as  an  actor,"  he  says.  "It  was  my 
luck  that  our  neighbor  in  Brooklyn 
was  a  professional  acting  coach.  She 
took  me  in  hand  and  made  my  career." 
In  the  new  CBS-TV  Terrytoon  series, 
Tom  Terrific,  Lionel  does  every  voice 
you  hear,  fifty-two  in  all. 


Old-time  radio  detectives,  seen  yesteryear  (above)  and 
today — Staats  Cotsworth  (Casey,  Crime  Photographer), 
Bret  Morrison  (The  Shadow),  Lon  Clark  (Nick  Carter) — 
re-created    roles   on   Mysterytime,   with    host   Don    Dowd. 


GREATEST 
T7  RADIO 

ANNUAL 
EVER 


The  big,  new  1957  edition  of 
TV-Radio  Annual  is  the  great- 
est ever!  It's  got  everything. 
It  covers  all  the  events  and  all 
the  history-making  moments  of 
alt  the  great  shows  and  pro- 
grams of  the  year. 

Here  are  pictures,  as  well  as 
thumbnail  descriptions  of  all 
the  stars.  Here  are  the  behind- 
the-scenes  stories  of  all  the 
new  shows.  Here  is  news  .  .  . 
gossip  and  chit-chat  from 
coast  to  coast.  In  short,  here 
is  the  most  colorful  and  excit- 
ing book  imaginable. 

ONLY  50*   WHILE  THEY   LAST 

Get  your  copy  of  this  bestseller  before  the  limited 
supply  is  exhausted.  Only  50<*  at  all  newsdealers. 
Or,  if  your  newsdealer  is  sold  out,  mail  coupon 
with  50*  today. 

r----- ------------------- -n 

TV-RADIO  MIRROR  WG-757 

20S  E.  42nd  St..  New  York  17.  N.  Y. 

Send    me    TV-RADIO    ANNUAL    1957.    I 
enclose  50c. 


Name.  . 


Address. 


Please  Print 


City State 

I........................... 


79 


Families  Are  Fun 


(Continued  from  page  44) 
that  is  so  important  to  Bud,  whether  it 
applies  to  contestants  on  his  shows,  to 
his  own  professional  life,  his  family  life 
with  his  pretty  actress-wife,  Marian 
Shockley,  and  the  three  Collyer  children 
...  or  to  the  class  of  sixty-five  teenagers, 
from  about  fifteen  to  eighteen,  which  he 
teaches  every  Sunday  at  the  First  Presby- 
terian Church  in  Greenwich,  Connecticut 
— where  he  also  serves  as  Sunday  school 
superintendent. 

About  contestants,  Bud  says:  "When  I 
see  them  backstage,  before  I  go  on  to  do 
the  show,  I  have  always  tried  in  that 
brief  time  to  leave  them  with  one  thought. 
You  came  here  to  have  fun,  I  remind  them, 
so  enjoy  whatever  happens." 

It  never  ceases  to  amaze — and  please — 
him  that  losers,  as  well  as  winners,  tell  him 
what  a  good  time  they  had  .  .  .  the  fun 
being  not  so  much  in  the  winning,  pleasant 
as  that  may  be,  but  in  the  doing.  "When 
you  remind  people  that  no  one  can  win 
at  everything,  every  time,  but  everyone 
can  enjoy  trying,  they  understand.  It's 
one  of  the  ideas  we  can  apply  to  life,  as 
well  as  to  contests." 

At  home — although  the  Collyers  are  a 
serious-minded  group,  with  respect  for 
family,"  church  and  civic  responsibilities, 
and  the  responsibilities  toward  their  coun- 
try which  they  share  with  all  good  citi- 
zens—this spirit  of  fun  and  of  joy  runs 
through  all  the  various  personal  and  col- 
lective activities.  "Marian  and  I  and  the 
children  try  to  keep  to  simple  solu- 
tions of  the  problems  that  come  up,"  says 
Bud.  "So  many  people  tend  to  make 
their  problems  more  complex  than  they 
were  at  the  start.  Perhaps  one  of  the  rea- 
sons we've  had  no  so-called  'teen-age 
problems'  in  our  home — although  the  three 
kids  fall  into  that  age  group — is  that  we 
never  built  up  such  problems.  Not  Marian, 
not  I,  not  the  children  themselves.  We 
enjoy  one  another,  and  every  phase  of 
the  children's  lives  has  been  a  challenge 
to  all  of  us." 

About  teenagers  in  general,  Bud  says: 
"I  sometimes  think  it  would  be  a  help  if 
we  were  to  drop  that  word  teenager.  It 
has  been  so  over-emphasized,  often  so 
adversely.  Teenagers  are  really  young 
adults,  still  closer  to  the  simple  and  direct 
truths  than  most  of  us  older  adults  are. 
They  haven't  yet  begun  to  rationalize 
everything.  I  never  close  a  Sunday  school 
year  without  telling  the  students  how 
much  I  thank  them  for  what  they  have 
taught  me.  I  always  learn  more  than  I 
teach." 

Even  too  much  organized  teen-age  ac- 
tivity seems  unnecessary  to  Bud,  believing 
as  he  does  that  kids  are  happiest  when 
they  are  doing  the  things  which  arise 
naturally  out  of  their  daily  lives  at  school 
and  among  their  own  friends,  and  which 
are  the  outgrowth  of  their  own  bents  and 
talents.  "Equally  important,"  he  empha- 
sizes, "they  want  to  be  allowed  to  join 
now  in  more  of  their  parents'  activities, 
to  be  accepted  on  a  more  adult  level.  It's 
a  time  to  make  the  change  from  the  child's 
dependence  on  the  parent  to  the  child's 
need  of  the  friendship  of  the  parent." 

Pat,  short  for  Patricia,  the  eldest  of  the 
Collyer  children,  is  nineteen  now,  ready  to 
begin  her  sophomore  year  at  Sweet  Briar 
College,  Virginia.    Cynthia,  17,  is  a  high- 
school  student.    So  is  Michael  Clayton,  15, 
known  to  all  as  "Mike."    The  name  "Clay- 
ton" is  for  Bud's  lawyer-father.    It's  Bud's 
first  name,  too,   though   a   German  nurse 
T    he  had  as  an  infant  called  him  "Brother," 
v    which    soon   became    "Bud,"    and    stuck — 
R    about  the  only  place  he  ever  sees  the  more 
formal  name  now  is  on  documents,  such 
as    his    law    degree    from    Fordham    Uni- 
80 


versity,  his  various  other  diplomas  and 
some  legal  papers. 

The  kids  are  all  different,  in  disposition, 
personality  and  talents.  Pat  is  already  a 
fine  pianist  and  is  emphasizing  music  at 
college,  but  only  as  part  of  a  well-rounded 
academic  course.  Cynthia  is  an  artist  who 
plans  to  get  more  specialized  art  training 
when  she  finishes  high  school.  Mike's 
present  announced  plans  are  to  work  so 
hard  that  he  can  ultimately  enter  the  new 
air  college  in  Denver,  his  goal  being  ad- 
vanced work  in  aero-dynamics. 

If  anyone  in  the  family  is  likely  to 
turn  to  show  business  eventually,  it 
might  be  Cynthia.  Show  business  is  in 
her  background,  'way  back.  Bud's  grand- 
father was  actor  Dan  Collyer,  Bud's 
mother  was  an  actress  and  his  father 
an  accomplished  amateur  musician.  His 
sister,  June  Collyer  Erwin,  wife  of  Stu 
Erwin,  is,  of  course,  a  well-known  per- 
former, and  their  brother  Richard  is  now 
in  the  production  end  of  films  for  televi- 
sion. Bud  himself  started  singing  on  radio 
when  he  was  still  in  college  and  then 
turned  to  acting,  before  becoming  famous 
as  a  quizmaster. 

"Cynthia  is  the  family  clown,"  he  says 
of  his  younger  daughter.  "She  keeps 
everyone  laughing,  has  a  talent  for  the 
comic  pose,  the  well-timed  line,  the  quick 
quip,  the  funny  gesture."  Her  art  work 
hangs  in  a  permanent  gallery  in  their 
upstairs  hall,  a  revolving  exhibition 
changed  at  least  twice  yearly.  She  is 
developing  a  fine  singing  voice  and,  when 
she  takes  her  place  now  in  the  adult  choir 
of  their  church  on  Sunday  morning,  Bud 
glances  over  at  her  from  his  place  in  the 
choir  and  smiles  proudly,  as  he  used  to 
smile  at  Pat  when  she  sat  down  at  the 
piano.  All  the  children  have  been  in  their 
dad's  Sunday  school  class,  Mike  being 
the  present  incumbent. 

"The  best  way  to  describe  Mike  is  to 
say  that  here  is  a  kid  who  will  never  have 
an  ulcer,"  Bud  says  fondly.  "My  son  is 
easygoing,  loves  people,  loves  life,  and — 
like  all  the  kids — loves  and  believes  in 
God.  He  has  humor.  He  has  a  great 
personal  sense  of  courage,  and  he  also  has 
great  gentleness.  Only  those  who  are 
aware  of  their  real  strength  can  be  really 
gentle,  and  Mike  has  both  these  qualities. 
My  wife  has  that  combination  of  inner 
strength  and  outward  gentleness.  It 
shines  out  in  her  relationship  with  the 
family  and  with  our  friends,  and  it 
shines  out  in  her  professional  work  as 
an  actress.  Marian  has  gone  back  to 
dramatic  work  on  radio  recently — al- 
though only  briefly — but  she  talks  about 
doing  more  as  the  children  grow  up,  one 
by  one." 

Mike  has  a  musical  bent,  in  addition  to  a 
mathematical  mind.  Bud  has  given  him 
his  own  banjo  and  guitar  and  is  teaching 
Mike  to  play  them,  while  father  himself 
has  decided  to  take  piano  lessons.  "Just  for 
playing  popular  music,"  Bud  hastens  to  add. 


Live  and  Laugh  with  .  .  . 
BILL  WILLIAMS 

IDA  LUPINO  •  ZASU  PITTS 
SAM  LEVENSON 
ARLENE  FRANCIS 

in  intimate  behind-the-scenes 
stories  and  pictures  .  .  . 

August  TV  RADIO  MIRROR 

at  your  newsstand  July  5 


"I'm  not  going  into  competition  with  Pat." 

The  children  have  practically  grown  up 
in  the  fourteen-room  house  at  the  top  of  a 
hill  in  Greenwich,  Connecticut.  It's  a  rep- 
lica of  a  French-Norman  farmhouse, 
complete  with  a  round  tower,  and  every 
part  of  it  is  dear  to  the  Collyers.  The 
mere  mention  of  ever  giving  it  up  and 
moving  to  a  smaller  place  raises  cries  of 
anguish.  Cynthia  threatens  to  save  every 
cent  of  her  own,  present  and  future — or 
deliberately  to  marry  someone,  anyone, 
with  the  means  to  buy  it! — if  Bud  so  much 
as  intimates  that  the  place  is  getting  too 
big  for  them.  The  years  of  growing  up 
have  been  happy,  and  the  house  and  all 
its  memories  are  woven  into  that  tapes- 
try. Secretly,  Bud  and  Marian  feel  the 
same  way.  Bud  says  to  Mike,  "Let's  take 
a  walk,"  early  on  Saturday  or  Sunday. 
"Okay— where  to?"  Mike  asks.  "Oh,  just 
around  the  place,  to  look  at  things,"  his 
dad  answers,  and  off  they  go  to  circle  the 
modest  bit  of  property  as  if  it  were  a 
many-acred  estate. 

"Now  that  the  children  are  growing  up, 
we  have  passed  the  phase  of  having  many 
pets,"  Bud  starts  to  explain,  and  then 
belies  his  own  words  by  introducing  two 
French  poodles,  Jennie  and  Mark  (for 
Black  Market);  one  alley  cat,  adored  ever 
since  it  was  rescued  as  a  tiny  orphaned 
kitten  from  a  barbed-wire  fence  and 
christened  Orbus  by  Pat  (then  deep  in 
Latin);  two  parakeets  named  Caesar  and 
Pompey;  two  crested  canaries  named 
George  and  Penelope,  with  head  feathers 
as  unruly  as  a  small  boy's  hair  that  no 
amount  of  coaxing  and  water  can  tame. 

A  while  back,  Bud  and  a  friend  were 
discussing  family  life,  and  Bud  bewailed 
the  fact  that  the  kids  were  growing  up 
fast  and  wished  he  could  be  starting  all 
over  again  and  living  through  their  child- 
hood. "Don't  be  silly,"  the  other  man 
said.  "After  a  while,  they  will  be  really 
grown  up  and  get  married  and  have  kids 
of  their  own,  and  then  you'll  have  the 
fun  of  watching  your  grandchildren  grow 
up — without  any  of  the  responsibilities." 
Bud's  comment,  later,  was  characteristic. 
"He  didn't  know  what  I  wanted.  All  the 
fun — and,  with  it,  all  the  responsibility. 
They  belong  together." 

Perhaps  it  is  because  Bud  shares  re- 
sponsibilities with  his  God  that  he  doesn't 
mind  them,  or  find  them  burdensome. 
"Man  makes  his  own  problems  and  then 
chooses  the  most  complex  ways  to  deal 
with  them,"  he  has  said.  In  the  Collyer 
family,  problems  are  treated  as  such,  but 
approached  simply  and  directly. 

When  one  of  the  girls  faced  a  difficult 
school  examination  and  expressed  fear 
about  passing  it,  Marian  reminded  her  to 
take  her  fears  to  God  before  she  went  to 
sleep  that  night.  There  were  no  specific 
instructions  or  advice,  merely  the  sug- 
gestion that  she  talk  it  over  and  then  leave 
it  in  God's  hands.  It  seemed  perfectly 
natural  when  the  child  mentioned,  quite 
casually,  at  dinner  next  evening,  "Oh,  by 
the  way,  it  worked.  I  could  answer  all 
the  questions.  I  had  no  trouble  remem- 
bering." Such  incidents  are  common  in  a 
household  where  no  one  has  ever  been 
self-conscious  about  asking  for  or  re- 
ceiving such  help. 

On  the  other  hand,  there  are  no  false 
ideas  about  expecting  prayer  to  take  the 
place  of  one's  own  courage  and  stamina 
and  hard  work,  but  only  to  help  each  one 
make  better  use  of  these  qualities.  "If 
you  don't  bet  on  yourself,  you  can't  expect 
anyone  else  to  bet  on  you,"  Bud  tells  his 
kids  and  his  contestants. 

Sounds  like  pretty  practical  advice, 
doesn't  it?  For  contestants,  children — 
and  even  for  parents! 


I 


New  Patterns 
for  You 


9091 — Neckline  low-curved  for  flattery; 
neat  cover-up  bolero — perfect  style  for  a 
cool  cotton.  Printed  Pattern  in  Misses'  Sizes 
12-20.  Size  16  dress,  4%  yards  35-inch  fabric ; 
bolero,  1%  yards  contrast.  State  size.  35tf 

9225 — Graceful  fashion  for  the  half-sizer. 
Easy  tucked  bodice,  neat  skirt,  smart  pockets. 
Printed  Pattern  in  Half  Sizes  141/2-261/4- 
Size  16x/2  takes  4%  yards  35-inch  fabric. 
State  size.  35$ 

4570— Jiffy-Cut  Printed  Pattern — all  in  one 
piece.  Pin  to  fabric;  cut  each  entire  blouse 
at  once.  Misses'  Sizes  10-18.  Size  16,  upper 
version,  1%  yards  35-inch  fabric;  middle, 
1%  yards;  lower,  1%  yards.  State  size.  35(/- 


Send  thirty-five  cents  (in  coin)  for  each  pattern  to:  TV  Radio  Mirror,  Pattern  Depart- 
ment, P.  O.  Box  137,  Old  Chelsea  Station,  New  York  11,  New  York.  Add  five  cents  for 
each    pattern    for    first-class    mailing.     Be    sure    to    specify    pattern    number    and    size. 


DARKENER  foMh* 


PERMANENT     mnnintn   hairs  to 

FOR  LASHES  AND  BROWS  Zt, 

•  NOT  AN  ANAUNE  DYEI 

•  I  APPLICATION  LASTS  4  to  5  WUKSI 

Takes  lust  seconds  to  apply . .  ■  stays  on  4  to 
5  weeksl  "Dark-Eyes"  is  the  perfect  way  to 
make  eyelashes  and  brows  completely  natural 
looking... and  it  will  not  harden  or  break 
theml  "Dark-Eyes"  Is  NOT  A  MASCARAI 
Will  jot  stick  to  eyelash  curler.   Eliminates 

the    bother   of   dally   eye    make-up. 

It  is  PERMANENT,  SWIMPROOF. 

SMUDGEPROOF,  TEARPROOF,  and 

SMEARPROOFI 

$1.25  (plus  tax)  at  leading  drag, 
dept.  and  variety  cfta/n  stores. 


SEND  TODAY 

for 

TRIAL  SIZE 

NO  DELAY— 

your  trial  order 
shipped  in  24 
hours  1  „ 

"DARK-EYES"  COMPANY,  Dept.  P-77 
3319  W.  Carroll  Ave.,  Chicago  24,  III. 

I  enclose  25c  (coin  or  stamps— tax  included)  for 
TRIAL  SIZE  pkg.  of  "Dark-Eyes"  with  directions. 
check  shade;  Q  light  Brown  Q  Brown  □  Black 


Name 

Address. 
Town 


.State- 


PflPlUK  WANTED 

^J  IVel  I W I  H(r  por    musical    setting  ...  send 

Poems    today.    Any   subject. 

Immediate   consideration.    Phonograph   records   made. 

CROWN  MUSIC  CO.,  49  W.32  St.,  Studio  560,  New  York  1 


TROUBLED 
WITH 

UNWANTED 
HAIR? 


^PROVIDENCE  15, 1. 1. 


|  You  needn't  be!  Now  you  can 
move  unwanted  hair  forever 
in  the  privacy  of  your  home 
with  the  famous  Mahler  Hafr 
|  Removal  Epilator!  Acclaimed 
J  by  thousands  of  women  who 
have  discovered  how  Mahler 
|  destroys  the  hair  root  perma- 
ently!  By  following  our  instruc- 
tions you,  too,  can  learn  to  use 
^the  Mahler  safely  and  effi- 
{  ciently!  Positive  money-back 
guarantee!  Act  todayt 

Send  5$  for  illustrated  16-page 
booklet  "New  Radiant  Beauty"! 


Corn  Pain  Gone 
Forgotten 

Callouses,  Bunions  Also 
Eased  The  Minute  You  Do  This! 

No  waiting  for  action  when  you  use 
Dr.  Scholl's  Zino-pads.  They  give 
you  super-fast  nerve-deep  relief  .  .  . 
ease  new  or  tight  shoes  .  .  .  stop 
corns,  callouses  before  they  can  de- 
velop .  .  .  remove  corns,  callouses 
one  of  the  quickest  ways  known  to 
medical  science.  No  other  method 
does  all  this.  Try  Dr.  Scholl's.  At 
Drug,  Shoe,  Dept.,  5-10^  Stores. 


81 


The  Rock  Rolls  'Round  the  World 


(Continued  from  page  54) 
continents,   crossed  the   two   great   oceans 
twice,  and   entertained   more  than   half  a 
million  people  at  their  ninety -four  shows 
in  Australia  and  Great  Britain. 

Had  they  accepted  other  invitations 
from  European  and  South  American 
countries,  from  lands  as  widely  separated 
as  Japan  and  Lebanon,  they  would  still 
be  going,  non-stop.  Yet  this  was  no  gov- 
ernment-sponsored tour.  It  cost  no  coun- 
try a  cent  of  tax  money.  As  Haley 
explains,  "We  paid  out  our  money  to 
travel,  and  the  kids  paid  theirs  to  buy 
tickets.     We  all  had  fun." 

The  overseas  expedition  began  when 
seven  young  men,  in  matching  pale  cash- 
mere coats,  caught  a  midnight  plane  at 
Los  Angeles  International  Airport.  Even 
at  that  anything-but-witching  departure 
hour,  people  recognized  The  Comets.  Their 
personal  appearances,  their  films  for  Co- 
lumbia Pictures,  "Rock  Around  the  Clock" 
and  "Don't  Knock  the  Rock" — together 
with  a  total  sale  of  twenty-two  million 
records — had  made  them  familiar  figures. 

They  were,  of  course,  Bill  Haley,  guitar 
and  bass;  John  Grande,  accordion  and 
piano;  Billy  Williamson,  electric  guitar; 
Al  Rex,  bass;  Rudy  Pompilli,  sax;  Fran 
Beecher,  Spanish  guitar;  and  Ralph  Jones, 
drums.  With  them  were  their  manager, 
James  H.  Ferguson;  his  seventy-seven- 
year-old  mother,  Charlotte  S.  Ferguson, 
who  was  bound  for  a  Honolulu  vacation; 
and  bandboy  Vincent  J.  Broomall,  aged 
seventeen  and  known  as  "Catfish." 

The  Comets  found  out  how  far  their 
music  and  films  had  preceded  them  when 
their  plane  touched  down  to  refuel,  a  day 
out  of  Hawaii.  To  the  American  rock  'n' 
rollers,  the  Fiji  Islands  were  a  remote  and 
storied  spot  on  the  map.  But,  to  natives 
and  to  the  English  colony  alike,  The 
Comets  were,  in  an  electronic  age,  old 
friends. 

What  a  reception  they  gave  them!  The 
path  to  the  main  building  on  the  island 
was  lit  by  torches  on  ten-foot  poles. 
Sarong-wrapped  natives  led  the  way.  The 
English  entertained  at  cocktails.  The  na- 
tives prepared  a  South  Sea  Island  feast. 
Fish  and  game  were  followed  by  strange 
but  delicious  fruits.  The  climax  was  a 
scene  which  had  photo-fan  Billy  William- 
son wishing  he  could  operate  two  cameras 
at  once — and  cut  a  sound  track  besides. 

"Man,  you  should  have  seen  and  heard 
it,"  says  Billy.  "When  we  went  back  to 
our  plane,  a  native  band  headed  the  pro- 
cession, serenading  us.  Now,  there  was 
a  beat  and  a  sound  for  you!  Maybe  we'll 
get  a  bit  of  it  into  a  recording  of  our  own 
some  day." 

There  was  dancing  at  the  airport  when 
they  reached  Australia.  Welcoming  The 
Comets,  the  fans  presented  a  furry  toy 
koala  bear,  a  symbol  which  carries  the 
same  good -luck  wish  in  Australia  as  a 
shamrock  does  in  Ireland,  or  a  horseshoe 
in  the  United  States.  The  Comets  named 
it  Billy  Koala.  "We  couldn't  guess  then 
how  superstitious  we  were  going  to  be 
about  that  charm,"  says  Haley.  "I  carried 
Billy  Koala  as  a  photographic  prop  at 
first.  Before  long,  we  were  rubbing  his 
ear  for  luck  at  the  start  of  every  trip." 

Luck  was  all  on  their  side  at  the  big 
outdoor  stadiums.  The  summer  air, 
"down  under,"  was  mild,  the  fans  enthusi- 
astic. In  most  cities,  all  seats  were  sold 
in    advance    and    the    box    office    never 

^    opened.    The  Comets  chalked  up  the  big- 

v    gest   attendance   record    ever   achieved   in 

R    Australia. 

New  to  them  as  the  country  was,  in 
one    respect    The    Comets    felt    they    had 

82 


never  left  home.  "Everyone  had  things 
to  say  about  those  few  show-offs  who  try 
to  ruin  a  show  for  the  rest  of  the  crowd," 
says  manager  Jim  Ferguson.  "Such  kids 
as  Americans  describe  as  'juvenile  delin- 
quents,' the  Australians  call  'Boogie- 
widgies.'  The  British  have  a  phrase,  too — 
'Teddy  boys.'  We  heard  about  them,  but 
that's  all  that  happened."  Haley  says  with 
satisfaction,  "I  trusted  the  kids  and  the 
kids  trusted  me.  I've  yet  to  see  a  rock  'n' 
roll  riot." 

Possibly,  it  might  be  said  that  there 
was  one  "incident."  Jim  Ferguson  grins  as 
he  tells  it.  "It  is  the  custom  there  to 
close  every  performance  by  the  singing  of 
'God  Save  the  Queen.'  Then  everyone 
goes  home — but,  in  Brisbane,  they  didn't. 
The  kids  clapped  and  shouted  until  The 
Comets  played  another  encore.  People 
told  us  that  had  never  happened  before." 

It  was  on  their  return  journey  that  the 
old  earth  and  its  elements  first  got  into 
the  act,  seemingly  intent  on  proving  to 
The  Comets  that,  in  rock  'n'  roll,  it  was 
still  the  champ.  As  friends  and  families 
waited  to  welcome  them  at  New  York's 
Idlewild  Airport,  that  chill  January  night, 
a  passenger  agent  scanned  the  cloudless 
sky  and  worried:  "Chicago  and  Cleveland 
are  closed  down.  We  should  be,  too,  right 
now.  I  can't  understand  what's  hap- 
pened to  that  blizzard." 

The  Comets  knew.  They  had  been 
through  it.  When  they  stepped  out  onto 
the  landing  stage,  they  were  trying  to 
clown.  Each  wore  a  vivid  South  Seas 
shirt  and  a  palm-frond  hat.  Bill  carried 
Billy  Koala,  perched  on  his  shoulder.  But 
it  wasn't  The  Comets'  usual  kind  of 
comedy.  Shy  "Cuppy"  Haley,  who  had 
stayed  back  in  the  shadows,  out  of  range 
of  photographers,  took  one  wifely  look 
at  her  Bill,  who  was  trying  to  pin  a  grin 
on  a  face  blank  with  weariness,  and  moved 
forward,  arms  open.  Unaware  of  popping 
flashbulbs,  they  held  each  other  a  long 
time. 

As  The  Comets  claimed  their  baggage, 
Jim  Ferguson  muttered  a  low-voiced  ex- 
planation: "The  blizzard  wasn't  bad,  but 
we  got  sort  of  beat  up  by  a  typhoon  over 
the  Pacific.  The  plane  dropped  flat, 
Heaven  only  knows  how  many  thousand 
feet." 

The  voyage  to  England  had  been 
planned  as  the  big  family  vacation,  a  care- 
free five  days  aboard  the  Cunard  luxury 
liner,  the  R.M.S.  Queen  Elizabeth.  Four 
wives  were  making  the  trip:  Cuppy 
Haley,  Helen  Grande,  Kate  Williamson, 
and  Dot  Jones.  The  youngest  generation 
was  represented  by  Linda  Grande,  5,  and 
Billy  Williamson,  Jr.,  4;  the  eldest,  by 
Mrs.  Charlotte  Ferguson.  The  Comets' 
agent,  Jolly  Joyce,  of  Philadelphia,  and 
his  wife,  Smiles,  were  there.  And,  to  give 
TV  Radio  Mirror  readers  a  first-hand  re- 
port, I  was  invited  to  come  along,  too. 

Everyone  hit  the  deck  dead  tired.  There 
had  been  an  interval  of  only  thirty-six 
hours  between  the  landing  of  The 
Comets'  plane  at  Idlewild  and  the  time 
set  for  the  Queen  to  cast  off  her  lines. 
Driving  in  from  Chester,  they  had  fought 
fog  and  slick  pavements.  In  New  York, 
too,  the  clouds  were  down  to  street  level. 
That  "lost"  blizzard  had  sent  its  har- 
bingers. 

At  the  gangplank,  they  learned  they 
had  another  problem.  Their  luggage  was 
on  hand — but  the  second  bandboy,  who 
had  brought  it  from  Chester,  had  van- 
ished. He  left  a  note:  "I'm  too  much  in 
love  to  leave  my  girl  behind.  God  bless 
you  all.  '  See  you  later,  Alligator."  They 
were   sailing  short-handed. 


They  also  were  informed  that  reporters 
were  waiting  for  them  in  the  ship's  press 
room.  They  hurried  up  to  the  sun  deck. 
In  the  midst  of  an  interview  for  NBC's 
Monitor,  a  steward  attempted  to  summon 
Haley  to  the  purser's  desk.  Bill,  on  mi- 
crophone, waved  him  off.  Photographers 
were  taking  pictures  when  the  second 
steward  appeared.  He,  too,  was  told, 
"Just  a  minute."  The  third  steward  broke 
right  into  the  reporters'  interview.  The 
ship  could  not  sail,  he  stated,  until  Mr. 
Haley    reported   to   the  purser's    office. 

Trailing  reporters,  photographers,  friends 
and  business  staff — as  the  original  Halley's 
Comet  trailed  stars — the  perplexed  Bill 
took  off.  A  stern  official  awaited  him. 
Where,  he  demanded,  was  Mr.  Haley's 
passport? 

Bill  stared  at  him  blankly.  "It's  in  my 
overnight  case.  Harry  West  has  it.  With 
my  ticket."  Harry  West,  Bill's  secretary 
who  runs  The  Comets'  office  in  Chester, 
is  the  kind  of  man  who  usually  knows 
where  anything  is.  This  time,  he  didn't. 
"I  don't  have  it,  Bill.  I've  looked  in 
everything.     It  isn't  here." 

"You  must  find  it,"  the  official  an- 
nounced. "It  is  illegal  to  sail  without  it. 
You'll  have  to  leave  the  ship." 

"But  I  have  it.  I  know  I  have  it,"  Bill 
protested.  "Maybe  I  left  it  in  a  desk 
drawer  in  the  library." 

It  was  a  dilemma.  The  Cunard  crew 
knew,  even  better  than  The  Comets,  how 
many  English  youngsters  would  be  hurt 
if  Haley  were  left  on  shore.  The  poten- 
tial money  loss,  to  many  people,  was 
great.  The  emotional  loss  would  be 
greater.  Two  stewards  appeared  to  re- 
move Bill's  luggage.  Everyone's  face  was 
somber.  The  champagne,  forgotten,  went 
flat  in  the  glasses. 

Then  Eddie  Elkort,  representative  for 
General  Amusement  Corporation,  had  an 
inspiration.  He  phoned  the  State  De- 
partment. A  deputy  director,  young 
enough  to  remember  how  disappointed 
kids  can  be,  cut  red  tape.  He  specified 
that  a  messenger  should  bring  the  Haley 
passport  to  Washington.  The  department 
would  then  air-mail  it  to  England — it's 
illegal  for  an  individual  to  send  an  Ameri- 
can passport  through  the  mail.  Just  as 
the  Queen  Elizabeth's  big  whistles  blasted, 
the  word  came  through  that  Bill  had 
emergency  permission  to  sail. 

Ironically,  all  that  fuss  proved  unnec- 
essary. Forty-five  minutes  later,  at  life- 
boat drill,  Bill  announced,  "I  found  my 
passport." 

Still  wrapped  in  life  jackets,  everyone 
gasped,  "Where?"  Bill's  grin  held  a 
sheepishness  any  husband  could  under- 
stand. "Cuppy  found  it.  Tangled  in  some 
clothes  I  hadn't  unpacked  since  we  came 
from  Australia." 

Some  intimation  of  the  welcome  which 
awaited  Haley  in  England  came  from  the 
ship's  crew.  Many  told  how  their  children 
had  "queued  up"  all  night,  carrying  ther- 
mos bottles  and  wrapped  in  blankets, 
waiting  to  buy  tickets  to  the  shows.  Fur- 
ther indication  came  from  the  British 
press.  Several  London  newspapers  made 
calls  to  the  ship  every  day.  The  largest, 
The  Daily  Mirror,  had  topped  its  rivals 
by  flying  a  reporter  to  New  York  to  re- 
turn to  England  with  The  Comets  on  the 
Queen  Elizabeth. 

That  reporter,  Noel  Whitcomb,  was  hip 
in  both  English  and  American  idiom.  In 
daily  columns,  he  and  Bill  told  how 
American  teenagers  had  taught  The  Com- 
ets what  music  sent  them:  After  they  had 
worked  out  their  basic  big  beat,  they 
tried   it   out   by   playing   for  free   at   one 


hundred  and  eighty-three  high  schools 
in  the  Philade^hia  area,  watching  the 
reaction.  When  The  Comets  took  the  kids' 
favorite  expre^ion,  "Crazy" — and  added  it 
to  their  footfall  cheer,  "Go!  Go!  Go!"— 
it  turned  into  The  Comets'  first  hit,  "Crazy, 
Man,  Crazy."  With  that,  rock  'n'  roll 
started  its  sweep  of  America  and  was  on 
its  way  around  the  world. 

Of  the  triD  itself — that  long-sought 
"vacation" — the  less  said,  the  better.  That 
much-delayed  blizzard  caught  up,  and 
gained  an  aHv  from  the  Gulf  Stream.  We 
went  through  two  hurricanes.  A  stabilizer 
went  out  of  order.  Off  the  coast  of  Ireland, 
one  radar  set  was  swept  overboard,  and 
the  scanner  of  the  other  was  damaged.  It 
could  be  that  The  Comets  and  their  fami- 
lies, staunch  sailors  through  it  all,  added 
a  new  term  to  the  language  of  the  sea. 
Where  the  crew  of  the  Queen  Elizabeth 
had  originally  described  the  ship's  antics 
as  "rolling  and  Ditching,"  they  soon  were 
remarking  cheerfully,  "She's  a-rocking  and 
rolling  today." 

Jli  very  one  was  anxious  to  arrive  in 
Southampton.  It  would  be  pleasant,  all 
agreed,  to  have  solid  land  under  our  feet 
again.  As  it  turned  out,  solid  land  was 
what  we  darned  near  didn't  have.  The 
Comets  knew  that  The  Mirror  was  run- 
ning a  special  fan  train  from  London  to 
Southampton — but  surely  no  single  train 
could  hold  all  the  people  v/ho  lined  that 
dock.  As  they  caught  sight  of  Bill  and 
Cuppy,  comine  down  the  gangplank,  their 
shout  of  "Haley!"  was  loud  enough  to 
drown  out  the  ship's  whistle,  and  that's 
quite  a  blast. 

From  there  on,  it  was  frantic.  In  the 
customs  shed,  members  of  the  company 
found  themselves  tugging  at  their  own 
luggage.  The  dockers  who  were  supposed 
to  move  it  were  following  Haley.  We 
struggled  through  crowds  of  adults,  not 
kids,  to  make  our  way  to  a  bus.  We  saw 
Bill  make  a  try  for  the  car  which  was  to 

\  transport  him.  then  fall  back  on  the  pro- 
tection of  the  oolice.  He  couldn't  even 
open  a  door.  Kids  not  only  were  on  all 
sides  of  it,  they  were  on  top  of  it.  Some- 
how, the  bobbies  cleared  them  off  and  the 

i    car  moved. 

At  the  train  gates,  the  confusion  doubled. 
Teenagers  who  had  never  before  been  so 
near  their  hero  struggled  to  stay  close. 
Police  lines  broke.  Bill  and  Cuopy  were 
separated.  Buttons  were  snatched  off  Bill's 

|    coat,  his  gloves  from  his  hand,  his  over- 

]  night  case  out  of  his  grasp.  One  girl 
shrieked  ecstatically,  "I  almost  got  his 
wedding  ring." 

As    we    sped    along    toward    London,  it 

I  was  easy  to  think  that  this  could  have  been 
the  world's  super-colossal  publicity  job, 
turning  out  all  those  teenagers.  But  no 
press  agent  in  the  world  could  have  got 
workers  to  line  up  at  the  doorways  of  the 
factories  we  passed,  just  to  wave  at  a 
train.  Only  one  thing  could  do  that.  Bill 
Haley  and  His  Comets,  through  their  mo- 
tion pictures  and  recordings,  must  have 
brought  a   great  deal  of  enjoyment  to   a 

|    great  many  people. 

As  the  train  inched  into  London's 
Waterloo    Station,    the    British    managers 

]  organized  the  exit  on  the  basis  of  "women 
and    children   last."   By   the   glare    of   the 

i    klieg    lights    which   stabbed    like    beacons 

!  through  the  cavernous  place,  we  could 
see  that  every  inch  was  filled  with  young- 
sters. Youngsters  who,  individually  and 
collectively,  had  one  objective:  To  see, 
I  touch,  talk  to,  and — most  of  all — seize  a 
souvenir  from  Haley.  Later,  people  called 
it  "The  Second  Battle  of  Waterloo." 

As  The  London  Daily  Sketch  described 
it,  "Haley's  car  sped  off  between  rows  of 
police.  Then  it  happened.  The  fans  realized 
Haley  was  getting  away.  Within  ten  sec- 


onds they  had  surrounded  his  car — a  solid 
wall  of  bodies,  hundreds  deep.  The  Haley 
car  stopped  dead.  The  mob  pounded  the 
windows.  Two  boys  climbed  on  the  roof. 
They  were  swept  aside  by  policemen.  Two 
more  police  jumped  in  front  of  the  car 
and  helped  push  a  way  through  the  waves 
of  shrieking,  rock-intoxicated  teenagers. 
...  It  was  the  most  triumphal  procession 
ever  given  one  man  in  peacetime." 

It  was  a  scene  to  be  repeated,  with 
variations,  in  Dublin,  in  Glasgow,  in 
Cardiff,  and  in  all  of  England's  major 
industrial  cities.  The  particular  situation 
which  I  shall  never  forget  occurred  in 
Coventry,  England's  equivalent  of  Detroit. 
Fans  followed  Bill  back  from  the  theater 
to  the  Leofric  Hotel — "Europe's  most 
modern."  (It  should  be.  Bombs,  not  bull- 
dozers, cleared  its  site.) 

A  bit  in  the  distance,  one  could  see  the 
staunch  bell  tower  which  refused  to  fall 
when  Coventry  Cathedral  was  bombed 
and  burned  to  the  ground.  In  the  public 
square,  where  she  finished  her  bare- 
backed ride  in  protest  against  an  unfair 
tax  imposed  by  her  husband,  stood  the 
statue  of  Lady  Godiva.  And  up  on  the 
balcony  stood  Bill  Haley,  waving  to  a 
crowd  of  at  least  a  thousand  teenagers 
who  were  serenading  him  by  singing, 
"We're  going  to  rock  .  .  .  right  'round  the 
clock  .  .  ." 

r  or  the  real  triumph  had  been  Bill's. 
Despite  the  triumphal  welcomes,  he  saw 
no  riots.  In  the  newspapers,  he  appealed 
to  his  fans,  "Take  it  easy  .  .  ."  and  they 
did.  To  stand  at  the  back  of  the  theater 
and  watch  the  crowd,  as  well  as  The  Com- 
ets, was  a  thrill  for  anyone  who  loves  the 
theater.  Together,  they  formed  a  single 
unit.  One  young  fan  expressed  it  best  in  a 
letter:  "When  my  girl  friend  and  I  left 
the  show,  our  throats  were  raw  from 
singing  and  our  hands  were  sore  from 
clapping,  but  it  was  worth  it.  We  never 
had  such  a  good  time  in  our  lives." 

It  wasn't  an  easy  tour.  The  battle  with 
the  elements  continued.  After  the  typhoon 
in  the  Pacific,  and  the  hurricanes  in  the 
Atlantic,  came  a  landslide  which  forced 
the  re-routing  of  that  boat  train  from 
Southampton.  The  day  The  Comets  left 
London  for  the  provinces,  the  Thames 
flooded.  In  Coventry,  an  hour  after  they 
visited  the  Jaguar  factory,  a  large  portion 
of  the  plant  burned.  Immediately  after 
their  first  show  in  Norwich,  an  earthquake, 
unprecedented  in  England,  rocked  the 
city. 

It  may  be  that  this  tour  was  the  point 
where  rock  'n'  roll  grew  up  fast  in  public 
estimation  and,  like  American  jazz,  turned 
respectable.  It  was  the  talk  of  London 
when  the  august  Times  devoted  three- 
quarters  of  a  column  to  a  review  which 
was  written  with  charming  humor  and 
with  an  understanding  which  made  the 
bandboy,  Catfish,  exclaim:  "Hey!  This 
cat  digs  us  the  most."  When  one  news- 
paper, ever  critical  of  Americans,  head- 
lined, "Haley  Go  Home,"  another  replied, 
"Don't  go  home,  Bill  Haley" — and  stated, 
"Everyone's  having  fun  .  .  .  what's  wrong 
with  that?" 

In  view  of  the  way  the  Haley  rock  'n' 
roll  has  gone  around  the  world,  it  is 
pleasant  to  recall  that  The  Comets'  home 
town,  Chester,  lies  just  beyond  earshot  of 
the  Liberty  Bell  in  Philadelphia's  Inde- 
pendence Square  ...  a  bell  which  our 
founding  fathers  "rocked  and  rolled"  un- 
til it  cracked,  the  day  they  proclaimed 
the  unalienable  right — not  only  to  life  and 
liberty — but  also  to  the  pursuit  of  hap- 
piness. Happiness,  as  The  Comets  proved, 
is  a  traditional  American  export  which 
too  often  is  in  short  supply  and  will  ever 
be  in  great  demand,  in  all  parts  of  the 
world. 


^RADIO 
MIRROR 


Save  $1.00  Under 
Newsstand  Prices 

|~~ Mail  This  Coupon  Today ~~"~\ 

TV  RADIO  MIRROR,  TV  7-57 
205  East  42  St.,  N.Y.  17,  IN.  Y. 

Yes!   Enter  my  bargain  subscription  at  once. 
D  Send  me  16  months  of  TV  Radio  Mirror 

for  S3.    *2  extra  issues  if  you  send  payment 

with  order. 
*D  I  enclose  $3  as  payment  in  full.  □  Bill  me. 


(Please  Print) 


Name 

Address 

City Zone .  . .  State . 


ADVANCE     ROYALTY 


uoo.° 


,    SONGWRITERS 

TO  THE  WRITER  OF  BEST  SONG  SELECTED   EACH  MONTH 


Send  songs,  poems. Records,  copies  furnished. Let  us  help  you  be  a  success. 

-fr  HOUYWOOP  TUNESMITHS  ™^%£& 

Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 
New  Way  Without  Surgery 

Science  Finds  Healing  Substance  That 
Relieves  Pain — Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 

For  the  first  time  science  has  found  a 
new  healing  substance  with  the  astonishing 
ability  to  shrink  hemorrhoids  and  to  relieve 
pain  —  without  surgery. 

In  case  after  case,  while  gently  relieving 
pain,  actual  reduction  (shrinkage)  took 
place. 

Most  amazing  of  all  —  results  were  so 
thorough  that  sufferers  made  astonishing 
statements  like  "Piles  have  ceased  to  be  a 
problem!" 

The  secret  is  a  new  healing  substance 
(Bio-Dyne*)  — discovery  of  a  world-famous 
research  institute. 

This  substance  is  now  available  in  sup- 
pository or  ointment  form  under  the  name 
Preparation  H*  Ask  for  it  at  all  drug  count- 
ers—money back  guarantee.    *Reg.  tj.  8.  Pat.  Off . 


83 


NEW  DESIGNS  FOR  LIVING 


884 — Cool,  jiffy-wrap  halter.  Make  several 
in  gay  prints  or  pastels;  trim  with  gay 
embroidery.  Misses'  Sizes  12-14;   16-18 
included.  Pattern,  embroidery  transfer, 
directions.  25$ 

783— Wall  panel  for  a  child's  room.  Bed- 
time prayer  is  done  in  simple  embroidery. 
Letters  are  large,  easy  to  read.  Transfer, 
directions  for  panel  15  x  18%  inches.  25$ 

890 — Cozy   quilt  for  baby  with  lovable 
little  animals  to  keep  him  company  in 
dreamland.  Easy  to  embroider!  Embroidery 
motifs,   applique   transfers,    diagrams. 
32  x  44  inches.  25$ 


783 


597 — Slip-cover  those  old  lampshades  or 
make  new  covers  on  the  frames!  Ten  new  idea 
for  every  kind  of  shade.  Complete  instructions 
for  10  shades  or  slipcovers.  25$ 

7033 — Graceful  swan — easy  to  crochet- 
makes  an  elegant  centerpiece  for  your  dining 
table.  Fill  with  fruit  or  flowers.  Crochet 
directions  in  heavy  jiffy  cotton.  Starch  stiffly.  25$ 


620 — Exquisite  doily  in  swirling  tulip 
design,  set  off  by  simple  picot  mesh. 
Crochet  directions  for  20-inch  centerpiece 
in  No.  30  cotton.  For  larger  doily,  use 
string.  25$ 

7231 — Design  of  graceful  swans  in  filet 
crochet  makes  a  stunning  chair-set,  scarf 
ends,  table  decoration.  Smart  for  modern 
or  traditional  homes.  Chart,  crochet 
directions.  25$ 


84 


Send  twenty-five  cents  (in  coin)   for  each  pattern  to:  TV  Radio  Mirror,  Needlecraft  Service,  P.O.  Box  137,  Old  Chelsea  Station, 
New  York  11,  N.Y.  Add  five  cents  for  each  pattern  for  first-class  mailing.  Send  additional  25$  for  new  1957  Needlework  Catalog. 


INFORMATION   BOOTH 

(Continued  from  page  13) 

United  For  Success 

Please   tell   us   about   the   Mello-Larks, 

whom    we   see   on   Club   60  on   NBC-TV. 

G.  W.  A.,  New  York,  N.  Y. 

Show  business  may  be  like  no  other 
business,  but  the  Mello-Larks  found  that 
one  principle  holds  true  for  both:  If  you 
don't  succeed  when  you're  in  business  for 
yourself,  try  amalgamating  ....  A  few 
years  ago,  Tommy  Hamm  was  singing 
with  Orrin  Tucker  and  his  orchestra,  Joe 
Eich  was  vocalizing  for  Claude  Thornhill 
and  Bob  Wollter  was  on  Ken  Murray's 
TV  show.  Tommy,  who'd  majored  in  busi- 
ness administration  at  the  University  of 
California,  surveyed  the  economic  situa- 
tion of  the  music  business  and  concluded 
that  big  bands  were  giving  way  to  small 
musical  combos.  He  decided  to  form  his 
own  quartet,  with  himself  as  top  tenor, 
and  found  eager  partners  in  Joe,  as  second 
tenor,  and  Bob,  as  baritone.  And  Tommy's 
economics  were  right.  In  six  months,  the 
Mello-Larks  were  earning  five  times  what 
their  combined  former  salaries  had 
been  .  .  .  The  only  sour  note  was  that  of 
trying  to  hang  on  to  a  girl  singer.  After 
a  couple  of  weeks,  Karen  Chandler  was 
snatched  up  by  a  record  company.  Peggy 
King,  Edie  Adams  and  Judy  Tyler  flew 
off  in  even  less  time.  But,  three  years  ago, 
the  problem  was  solved.  Jamie  Dina  left 
Vaughn  Monroe's  band  to  join  the  quartet, 
then  married  its  leader,  Tommy  Hamm,  to 
make  it  a  lifetime  contract.  Bob  Wollter, 
too.  is  wed.    Joe  Eich's  the  sole  hold-out. 

Calling  All  Fans 

The  following  fan  clubs  invite  new 
members.  If  you  are  interested,  write  to 
address  given — not  to  TV  Radio  Mirror. 

Tommy  Sands  Fan  Club,  c/o  Glenda 
Bigham,  4422  Begg  Boulevard,  North- 
woods  20,  Missouri. 

Tim  Considine  Fan  Club,  c/o  Barbara 
Lable,    77    Cedar    Lane,    Cheshire,    Conn. 

Buddy  Merrill  Fan  Club,  c/o  Judie 
Smyth.  2172  Fir  Street,  Wantagh.  N.  Y. 


Mello-Larks:  Joe  Eich  and  Bob 
Wollter  and,  in  front,  Tommy 
Hamm    and    wife    Jamie    Dina. 


Dane  Clark,  TV  visitor  to  millions 
of  homes,   has  three  of  his  own. 


Doctor,   Lawyer,   Merchant . . . 

Could  you  write  something  about  Dane 

Clark,  star   of  ABC-TV's  Wire   Service? 

N.  M.,   Tampa,  Florida 

Dane  Clark  has  been  a  star  of  theater, 
radio,  the  movies  and  TV  for  nearly  a 
score  of  years.  As  Bernard  Zanville,  he 
was  born  and  raised  in  Manhattan,  went 
to  college  at  Cornell  and  studied  toward 
a  law  degree  at  St.  John's  in  Brooklyn. 
After  a  major  career  reversal  in  1935 
separated  him  from  a  steady  job  in  a 
legal  firm — the  firm's  senior  member  had 
a  nephew — Bernard  became,  by  turns,  a 
construction  worker,  boxer,  baseball 
player,  football  pro  and  soda  jerk.  As  a 
result  of  some  pick-up  modeling  jobs,  he 
became  acquainted  with  the  "Village" 
bohemians.  Their  "artistic"  way  of  life 
appealed  to  him,  but  it  struck  him  that 
"their  constant  snobbish  talk  about  the 
'theatah'  was  a  little  on  the  phony  side." 
So  he  decided  to  give  it  a  try  "just  to 
show  them  anyone  could  do  it."  Before  he 
knew  it,  he  was  "Dane  Clark"  and  a  series 
of  tough  guys  in  "Dead  End,"  "Waiting 
for  Lefty"  and  "Golden  Boy."  Then  came 
the  Broadway  lead  in  "Of  Mice  and  Men" 
and  a  Warner  Bros,  contract.  A  series  of 
radio  and  TV  appearances  culminated  this 
past  year  in  the  TV  role  of  reporter  Dan 
Miller  in  ABC-TV's  Wire  Service  .... 
Dane's  been  married  for  twelve  years.  His 
wife  Margot,  whose  professional  name  is 
Veres,  is  one  of  the  most  accomplished 
painters  of  circus  art  in  the  country.  They 
live  in  West  Los  Angeles,  but  keep  a  flat 
in  London  and  a  New  York  apartment  as 
well.  Dane  is  an  avid  traveler — prefers 
Wire  Service's  location  sets  to  the  studio. 


FOR  YOUR  INFORMATION— If  there's 
something  you  want  to  know  about  radio 
and  television,  write  to  Information  Booth, 
TV  Raoio  Mirror,  205  East  42nd  St.,  New 
York  17,  N.  Y.  We'll  answer,  if  we  can, 
provided  your  question  is  of  general  inter- 
est. Answers  will  appear  in  this  column — 
but  be  sure  to  attach  this  box  to  your 
letter,  and  specify  whether  your  question 
concerns  radio  or  TV. 


Makes 

Pavements 

Feel 

Like  Cushions! 


D-rScholls 

\  Ball-o-foot 

Cushion 


X 

You  Actually  Walk  On  Air !  ;  ^ 

This   modern   miracle  of  / 
walking  ease— Dr.  Scholl's  \  . 
Ball-O-Foot  Cushion  for  \ 
men  and  women— relieves   \ 
pain, callouses, burning, ten-    '  * 

dernessatballof  foot.  The  cushion,  not  you, 
absorbs  shock  of  each  step.  Loops  over  toe 
—no  adhesive.  Flesh  color.  Washable.  Only 
$1  pair.  At  Drug,  Shoe,  Dept.,  5-10^  Stores 
and  Dr.  Scholl's  Foot  Comfort®  Shops.  If 
not  obtainable  locally,  send  $1.00  direct  to 
DR.  SCHOLL'S,  Dept.  77B,  Chicago  10,  III. 

SONGWRITERS! 

PROTECT  YOUR  IDEAS!      HOLD  ALL  SONGS,  POEMSt 
Write   for   safe,   correct   procedure! 

SONG  SERVICE 
Dept.  T.V.  333  W.  56th  St..  New  York  19.  N.  Y. 


TINY  TV  Salt  and  Pepper  Set 

— «"ag&i    rDJTJT  on  15-DAY 

?■     rt\UK  OFFER 


IToStartYou  SI  CO  With  MIDWEST 
I  Earning  up  to  I U  U  Christmas  Cards 

"Show  friends  oar  fast-selling  Cards  and 
Gift  Novelties.  You  keep  as  much  as  50c 
-j^r  ^  to  $1.25  profit  per  item.  No  experience 

No      ll  needed.  Get  samples  on  approval  with  tree  Personal 
Money  U  Christmas  Card  Album  and  TIN  Y  TV.  Write  NOW. 

MIDWEST  CARD  CO.,  1113  Washington,  Dept.  513-H,  St  Louis  1.  Mo. 

BLEG 
Why  continue  to  suffer  without  attempt- 
ing to  do  something?  Write  today  lor  New 
Booklet— "THE  LIEPE  METHODS  FOR 
HOME  USE."  It  tells  about  Varicose 
Ulcers  and  Open  Leg  Sores.  Liepe  Methods 
used  while  you  walk.  More  than  60  years  of 
success.  Praised  and  en- 
dorsed by  multitudes. 

LIEPE  METHODS,  3250  N.  Green  Bay  Ave., 
Dept.  G-2S,   Milwaukee   12,  Wiscomin| 


SUFFERERS 


FREE 

BOOKLET 


SPARKLING 

8x10 

ENLARGEMENT 

49< 


only 


FREE! 

On  orders  of  2 
or  more  we  will 
send  you  one 
sparkling  wallet 
lie  print  FREE. 


paid,  your  enlargement  on  double-weight  paper, 
else  to  pay.  Original  returned  unharmed.  Get  beautiful  hand 
coloring,  only  SOC  additional  each  print.  C.O.D.'s  accepted 
on  orders  of  2  or  more,  plus  C.O.D.  charges.  Satisfaction 
Guaranteed.  QUALITY  VALUES,  Studio  33-D,  Box  222, 
Cooper  Sta.,   New  York  3.   N.  Y. 

m  *m    ^    ^   ^p   ^~ 

I       Can't  Get  Rid  of 
[Dark  or  Discolored  Skin. 
freckles,  Skin  Spots? 


HERE'S  HELP!  Mercolized  Wax  Cream 
7  NIGHT  PLAN  Lightens, 
Beautifies  Skin  While  You  Sleep 

Just  follow  the  famous  Mercolized  Wax 
Cream  7  Night  Plan  to  a  whiter,  smoother, 
lovelier  skin.  Smooth  rich,  luxurious  Mer- 
colized Wax  Cream  on  your  face  or  arms 
just  before  retiring  each  night  for  one  week. 
You'll  begin  to  see  results  almost 
at  once  .  .  .  lightens  dark  skin, 
blotches,  spots,  freckles  as  if  by 
magic!  This  is  not  a  cover  up  cos- 
metic; Mercolized  Wax  Cream 
works  UNDER  the  skin  surface. 
Beautiful  women  have  used  this 
time^tested  plan  for  over  40  years  — you'll 
love  it's  fast,  sure,  longer  lasting  results  1 
Mercolized  Wax  Cream  is  sold  on  100%  guar- 
antee or  money  back.    Start  using  it  now  t 

MERCOLIZED  WAX  CREAM 

At  All  Drug  and  Cosmetic  Counters 


Lightens  dark 
skin  and  ugly 
spots  almost 
overnight. 


85 


The  Crosby  Clan  From  Spokane 


(Continued  from  page  36) 
and  show  every  indication  of  becoming  a 
long-hair. 

George  Robert  was  the  only  Crosby 
born  at  508  Sharp  Avenue  in  Spokane, 
Washington,  but  all  the  young  Crosbys — 
Larry,  Everett,  Ted,  Bing,  Catherine  and 
Mary  Rose — grew  up  there.  Guided  by 
the  firm  and  loving  hand  of  their  hand- 
some, spirited  mother,  Kate  Harrigan 
Crosby,  and  by  their  not-so-firm  but  ever- 
loving  father,  Harry  Lillis  Crosby,  Sr. — 
otherwise  (and  deservedly)  known  as 
"Happy  Harry." 

Sharp  Avenue  revisited.  .  .  .  Today,  the 
house  was  painted  white  instead  of  brown. 
Pat  Higgins,  a  public  accountant,  and  his 
wife  Marge  had  bought  the  place  from 
the  Crosbys,  and  Mrs.  Higgins  (now 
widowed)  still  lives  there.  It  was  the 
Higgins  family  who  opened  the  door  to 
Bing  and  to  his  many  memories. 

Memories  of  the  "Crosby  clambakes"  in 
the  large  family  parlor,  and  the  "Sunday- 
night  sings,"  with  Pop  on  the  mandolin  or 
guitar  and  Catherine  at  the  piano  and  all 
the  others  joining  their  voices  in  "When 
You  Wore  a  Tulip  and  I  Wore  a  Big  Red 
Rose."  The  chatter  of  the  college  crowds 
who  gathered  at  the  house  after  a  football 
game.  The  way  the  whole  Crosby  clan 
trooped  across  the  three  blocks  from  their 
house  to  the  gridiron,  with  their  mother, 
Kate,  a  solid  fan,  leading  the  way. 

The  woodbox  that  wouldn't  stay  filled, 
and  the  devious  ways  he  avoided  filling 
it — until  his  mother  would  pointedly  put 
on  a  heavy  coat,  go  out  into  the  cold,  and 
bring  in  a  couple  of  chunks.  The  hot 
mush  Harry  Crosby,  Sr.  used  to  make  up 
in  the  mornings  for  breakfast — and  the 
way  every  Crosby  would  heat  it  up  and 
make  his  own  breakfast,  when  he  came 
down.  .  .  . 

The  house  on  Sharp  Avenue  brought 
back  all  the  boyish  escapades,  like  con- 
spiring with  pals  about  the  best  means 
of  sneaking  in  free  to  the  basketball 
games,  and  stealing  cherries  from  the 
orchard  back  in  Holy  Names  Academy. 
The  lilac  bushes  in  the  back  yard.  And  the 
heady  aroma  of  the  plum  pudding  and 
raisin  bread  Kate  Crosby  used  to  make. 
To  the  man  who  went  around  whistling 
and  ringing  doorbells  along  Sharp  Avenue 
that  afternoon,  the  old-fashioned  frame 
house  would  be  home — in  a  sense  the 
five  more  pretentious  homes  he  owned 
today  had  never  been.  Just  as  the  Kear- 
neys, the  Bradleys,  the  Huetters,  the  Gia- 
nellis,  Albis,  Sholderers,  Brokmans  and 
Bresnahans — who'd  shared  those  years 
and  the  street  where  he'd  lived — would  be 
part  of  Bing's  life  in  a  way  the  famous 
who  touched  his  life  today  could  never  be. 
With  the  exception  of  one  family — "the 
brick  house  on  the  block" — those  who 
lived  on  Sharp  Avenue  then  were  poor 
in  material  things.  Pop  Crosby's  salary, 
as  bookkeeper  at  the  brewery,  took  some 
stretching  for  his  brood.  Father  Joe 
Kearney — Bob  Crosby's  boyhood  friend, 
who  lived  next  door  to  the  Crosbys  "on 
the  other  side" — recalls  that  his  own  dad, 
as  a  railway  inspector,  was  at  one  time 
making  eighty  dollars  a  month  "and  feed- 
ing a  whole  flock  of  us."  There  was  "a 
flock"  in  just  about  every  house  on  the 
street,  and  a  strict  bed-check  was  no 
small  responsibility,  counting  youthful 
noses,  after  the  sun  went  down. 

But,  if  there  was  little  money,  there  was 
T  no  limit  on  fun.  The  whole  campus  of 
v  Gonzaga  was  their  playground.  And  no  boy 
R  could  ask  for  more  adventure  than  riding 
the  logs  down  the  treacherous  Spokane 
River  from  McGolderick's  Mill.  The  river 
86 


ran  right  back  of  the  school — and,  as  one 
of  the  Fathers  who  taught  at  Gonzaga  then 
recalls,  "They  thought  it  fine  sport  riding 
those  logs — the  little  imps."  It  was  very 
dangerous  and  the  mill  was  "out  of 
bounds,"   which  made   it  more   attractive. 

Bob  Crosby  almost  drowned  there,  when 
he  was  seven  years  old.  "Bing  and  the 
older  boys  would  go  down  to  the  mill  and 
walk  the  logs,"  Bob  reminisces.  "I  tried 
to  imitate  them  and  I  fell  in."  Which  so 
unnerved  his  brother  Bing  that  "he  took 
me  out  to  the  end  of  the  dock  in  Liberty 
Lake  the  next  day  and  threw  me  in,  say- 
ing, 'Now  swim]' " 

Theirs  was  a  neighborhood  thick  with 
brogues  and  a  smattering  of  other  accents. 
The  young  Irishers  nicknamed  their  dis- 
trict "The  Holy  Land,"  inasmuch  as  just 
about  everybody  there  was  a  Catholic.  The 
boys  went  to  Gonzaga,  the  girls  to  Holy 
Names  Academy.  And,  on  Sunday,  all  of 
them  attended  St.  Aloysius  Church,  which 
they  shortened  to  "St.  Al's."  Their  parents 
played  cards  over  at  the  parish  hall  and, 
on  weekends,  the  Irish  lads  would  join  the 
colleens  to  dance  at  the  hall  or  attend  the 
movies   frequently   shown  there. 

"Sharp  Avenue  was  like  a  little  town," 
Mary  Bresnahan,  former  Crosby  neighbor 
and  friend,  remembers  warmly  now.  "You 
could  go  in  and  ask  for  a  piece  of  bread  in 
anybody's  house.  It  was  just  one  of  those 
neighborhoods." 

Nor,  Father  Joe  Kearney  adds,  did  they 
always  stop  at  sharing  bread:  "My  grand- 
father was  in  his  nineties,  and  Bob  would 
come  over  to  the  house  every  day  just  to 
eat  breakfast  with  him.  Then,  later,  the 
two  of  us  would  go  on  over  to  the  Hardi- 
gans' — and  have  cold  eggs  or  any  leftovers 
they  had.  What  our  parents  thought  of  us 
going  around  getting  handouts,  I  don't  re- 
call," he  laughs.  "Nor  do  I  know  now  why 
we  did  it." 

It  was  one  of  those  neighborhoods  where 
"they  did  quite  a  lot  of  porch-sitting,"  too. 
On  a  balmy  summer  evening,  Pop  Crosby 
would  come  out  on  his  front  porch  to  air 
out  his  guitar,  and  other  sitters  up  and 
down  the  street  would  leave  their  own 
porches.  "Dad  Crosby  would  start  singing 
and  playing,"  Gladys  Bradley  remembers, 
"and  we'd  all  gather  there." 

True  to  the  Irish,  opinion  was  divided 
about  Bing's  talent.  Some  entertained 
grave  doubt  that  he  would  ever  make  a 
living  with  his  voice — and,  later  on,  they 
were  even  more  fearful  of  Bob's  chances. 
One  neighbor  recalls  warmly  how  she'd 
hear  Bing  come  by  her  house  whistling 
every  night:  "You  could  always  tell  Bing's 
whistle  from  the  other  boys'.  He  was  the 
best  whistler  in  the  bunch." 

However,  Mary  Bresnahan  remembers 
that,  when  Bing's  whistle  passed  their 
house,  her  father  took  a  very  dim  view  of 
any  future  for  him  musically.  "We  lived 
two  blocks  from  the  Crosbys,"  she  says, 
"and,  when  Bing  would  pass  our  house  on 
the  way  home,  he'd  always  be  whistling  in 
harmony  or  bass,  and  my  dad  would  say, 
'I  wish  that  kid  would  sing — instead  of 
whistling  off-key.'  He  didn't  realize  Bing 
was  whistling  the  harmony.  Or  he'd  say, 
'Why  can't  that  kid  whistle  the  tune?' 

"Sometimes  Bing  would  hear  him,"  Mary 
laughs,  "and  he'd  call  back,  'Someday  this 
is  going  to  pay  off,  Mr.  Bresnahan.  I'll  do 
it  someday — and  I'll  make  it  pay  J  too.' " 
But  Mary's  father  would  just  shake  his 
head  and  lament  again,  "If  the  kid  would 
even  whistle  the  tune  .  .  ." 

Father  Cornelius  McCoy,  who  was  then 
teaching  at  Gonzaga,  recalls  that  Bing  was 
fired  from  the  choir  there.  The  choir  di- 
rector, the  late  Father  Lewis  McCann, 
came  from  a  very  musical  family  in  San 


Francisco.  "He  was  a  brilliant  musician, 
with  a  fine  knowledge  of  the  classics." 
Around  Bing's  crowd,  he  was  referred  to 
as  "Frisco  Louie,"  and  considered  both 
strict  and  lacking  in  humor. 

But  there  was  surprise  when  he  fired 
Bing  from  the  choir,  and  a  few  in  the  com- 
munity wanted  to  know  why.  "For  two 
reasons,"  Father  McCann  told  them.  "The 
boy  never  comes  to  rehearsal.  And  he 
can't  sing." 

"Bing  wasn't  a  bad  boy,"  Father  McCoy 
adds  now.  "He  was  a  good-natured,  mis- 
chievous boy."  And  the  fact  that  he  "never 
came  to  rehearsal"  was  fairly  indicative  of 
his  casual  temperament,  even  then.  "He 
was  always  relaxed  about  everything— 
which  turned  out  to  be,  I  believe,  largely 
the  secret  of  his  success." 

But — if  some  hometowners  were  dis- 
paraging about  Bing's  future  possibilities 
vocally — in  the  beginning,  they  held  almost 
no  hope  at  all  for  his  brother  Bob's.  Never- 
theless, Bob  had  music  on  his  mind.  From 
boyhood,  he'd  been  a  fan  of  Bing's.  "He 
was  always  hanging  over  the  phonograph 
listening  to  Bing's  records.  And,  whenever 
he  got  a  new  one,  he'd  call  up  some  of  us 
to  come  hear  it.  He  was  very  proud  of 
him,"  says  Father  Joe  Kearney,  who  not 
only  had  lived  next  door  but  had  also 
worked  with  Bob's  band  before  deciding 
to  study  for  the  priesthood.  Today,  he 
teaches  at  St.  Gregory's  in  Los  Angeles,  is 
chaplain  with  the  Catholic  Labor  Institute, 
and  the  two  of  them  still  keep  in  touch. 

"A  lot  of  people  were  on  Bob's  back 
then,"  the  red-haired  priest  says  of  those 
earlier  days.  Even  more  so  when  Bob  was 
fired  by  Anson  Weeks  from  his  first  job 
with  a  band.  "They  would  say,  'He  ought 
to  get  a  job — he  can't  sing.'  According  to 
custom  then,  you  worked  part-time  to  get 
through  school  and  then  you  got  a  job.  To 
some,  Bob  seemed  to  be  just  sort  of  hang- 
ing around.  Actually,  he  was  singing 
wherever  he  could.  But,  to  them,  he  wasn't 
working.  He  was  a  target  for  a  lot  of 
criticism  then." 

But  Bob  wouldn't  be  discouraged,  how- 
ever depressed  he  may  have  felt  person- 
ally during  this  time.  "Bob  never  had  any 
doubt,  from  the  time  he  decided  he  was 
going  to  do  it.  This  was  it."  And,  to  his  de- 
tractors, Bob  would  prophesy,  even  as  his 
brother  had  done  before:  "You  wait- 
someday  you'll  be  payin'  to  hear  me  sing." 

Even  so,  there  were  few  back  in  Spokane 
— including  George  Robert  himself — who 
would  have  believed  the  day  would  come 
when  television  sponsors  would  be  paying 
plenty  for  that  privilege.  The  day  when 
his  would  be  an  audience  of  millions.  When 
Bob  Crosby's  voice  and  warm  personality 
would  be  a  daily  must  for  the  fairer  sex, 
and  his  CBS-TV  show  part  of  the  pattern 
of  their  lives. 

Nor  would  even  the  most  loyal  along 
Sharp  Avenue  ever  have  believed  that 
Bob's  older  brother  would  be  the  most  be- 
loved and  famous  voice  of  his  time,  an  in- 
stitution in  show  business,  and  the  donor 
of  a  $500,000  library  to  Gonzaga  Univer- 
sity, his  alma  mater.  Nor  that  the  day 
would  come  when  it  would  take  a  very 
large  room  in  the  Crosby  library  to  hold 
all  the  valuable  souvenirs  of  Bing's  suc- 
cess— the  "Crosbyana"  which  he  hopes 
might  encourage  other  young  bloods  com- 
ing up  in  his  home  town  who  would  dream 
big,  like  the  fellow  who  whistled  "off-key." 
Bing's  Oscar;  his  now-twenty  gold  records, 
each  representing  more  than  a  million 
record  sales;  his  Photoplay  gold  medals, 
awarded  him  as  the  favorite  motion-pic- 
ture star  of  readers  all  over  America.  Hun- 
dreds of  trophies,  all  "wins." 


Now,  in  television,  Bob  is  winning  his 
own  awards,  too — including  three  gold 
medals  from  TV  Radio  Mirror's  readers  as 
their  favorite  daytime  variety  program, 
for  the  past  three  years  in  a  row.  But  Bob's 
biggest  victory  can't  be  measured  by 
trophies.  It  came  from  earning  his  own 
identity  in  show  business,  in  the  shadow 
of  the  most  famous  and  beloved  song-man 
of  all  time. 

From  the  beginning,  the  success  of  both 
Bing  and  Bob  was  sparked  by  their  own 
heritage.  The  courage,  the  character,  the 
Irish  spirit  that  has  always  been  Kate 
Harrigan  Crosby's.  The  warmth,  the  music, 
the  carefree  charm— the  bit  of  gypsy — 
that  was  Pop's  ...  a  genial  gentleman 
prone  to  smoking  his  dudeen  and  playing 
his  guitar,  undisturbed  which  way  the 
winds  might  blow.  Pop's  gypsy  strain,  in 
turn,  dated  back  to  his  grandfather,  Cap- 
tain Nathaniel  Crosby,  Jr.,  a  New  England 
salt  who  sailed  into  the  Northwest,  helped 
found  the  fair  city  of  Portland,  built  the 
first  frame  house  there  .  .  .  and  sailed 
away  to  China  one  day,  and  never  re- 
turned. 

And,  from  the  beginning,  Harry  Lillis 
Crosby  could  take  good  care  of  himself — 
physically,  mentally  and  vocally.  "Bing  was 
a  pretty  good  fighter,"  recalls  Jimmy  Cot- 
trell,  Northwest  ex-middleweight  champ 
who  grew  up  with  him  in  Spokane.  "Good 
with  his  right.  I've  always  kidded  him 
about  his  left,  but  he  was  a  good  amateur 
boxer,  actually.  I  saw  him  knock  out 
Buddy  Fitzgerald  in  an  amateur  meet  at 
Gonzaga,   one  time." 

The  friendship  of  Crosby  and  Cottrell 
— who's  been  a  prop  man  on  Bing's  pic- 
tures ever  since  he  hung  up  his  gloves 
twenty-three  years  ago — was  first  in- 
spired when  Bing  saw  Jimmy  knock  out 
the  neighborhood  bully.  "All  the  kids  had 
gangs,"  Jimmy  recalls,  "and  Bing  and  I 
belonged  to  different  teams.  I  lived  down 
in  the  Logan  school  district,  so  I  belonged 
to  the  'Logan'  gang.  There  was  also  the 
'Hayes  Park'  gang,  the  'Minnehaha'  gang, 
and  Bing's  'Mission  Park'  gang.  We  all  in- 
termingled  and   played   ball." 

But  there  was  one  big  bully  who  didn't 
play  ball  with  much  of  anybody — and  Bing 
was  an  interested  spectator  when  Jimmy 
Cottrell  took  the  measure  of  him:  "This 
boy  was  the  'ace'  kid — the  tough  one — in 
the  outfit.  I  didn't  know  whether  Bing 
ever  had  any  trouble  with  him  or  not,  but 
others  did."  One  day,  Jimmy  had  a  fight 
with  him,  in  back  of  a  local  grocery  store 
— and,  from  then  on,  Bing  was  on  his  team. 
In  all  the  years  he's  observed  Bing  himself 
in  the  clinches,  Jimmy  adds,  "He'll  always 
go  down  in  my  book  as  the  champ." 

Bing  early  indicated  that,  whenever  the 
stakes  were  to  his  liking,  he'd  always  fin- 
ish somewhere  in  the  money.  He  had  both 
the  will  and  the  ability  to  win.  Pop  Crosby 
once  told  about  how  Bing  entered  a  city 
swimming  meet,  against  supposedly  far 
superior  swimmers,  and  brought  home 
every  medal  they  gave — one  for  every 
event  he  entered,  plus  the  medal  for  the 
entire  meet. 

Kate  and  Harry  Crosby  were  always 
anxious  that  their  brood  have  a  good  edu- 
cation and — although  "there  was  no  mid- 
night-oil-burning at  our  house" — they 
kept  a  vigilant  eye  on  all  report  cards.  As 
well  as  on  all  reports  of  conduct  at  school. 
Bing  has  given  credit  to  the  Fathers  at 
Gonzaga  for  helping  condition  him  to  fife 
— "to  facing  whatever  Fate  set  in  my  path, 
squarely,  with  a  cold  blue  eye."  His  diffi- 
culty in  childhood,  however,  was  in  how 
to  face  the  Fathers. 

Nevertheless,  Bing  didn't  encounter  too 
much  difficulty  in  the  matter  of  being 
disciplined — though  his  parents  had  antici- 
pated that  he  might,  when  he  started  go- 


ing to  Gonzaga.  They  tried  to  have  a 
heart-to-heart  talk  with  him  regarding 
a  priest  who  was  known  to  be  very  severe. 
"That  guy  will  never  see  me,"  Bing  de- 
cided. "What  about  Father  So-and-so?" 
his  parents  went  on,  naming  another  who 
was  also  reputedly  strict.  Bing  thought 
about  it  a  moment,  then  summed  up  the 
whole  thing.  "I'll  be  okay,"  he  said  seri- 
ously. "It  will  work  out  all  right.  A  guy 
would  be  crazy  to  start  anything  in  there." 

A  respect  for  knowledge  and  for  dis- 
cipline, for  being  self-relianl:  and  re- 
sourceful, were  part  of  the  young  Crosbys' 
home  training.  Pop  used  to  say  proudly, 
"None  of  the  boys  ever  bothered  us  for 
any  spending  money.  They  all  earned 
their  own."  And  he'd  add  that  Bing  began 
earning  his,  by  getting  up  at  four  A.M. 
to  deliver  the  Spokesman- Review. 

They  all  shared  responsibilities  of  the 
home  to  a  certain  extent.  On  Saturdays, 
all  the  family  helped.  Larry  and  Cath- 
erine helped  their  mother  in  the  kitchen, 
the  other  boys  beat  the  carpets  and  helped 
with  the  cleaning — and,  by  two  P.M.,  the 
work  was  done.  There  had  to  be  system, 
with  so  many  mouths  to  feed  .  .  .  and  their 
parents  never  knew  how  many  there 
would  be.  "We  never  did  mind  how  many 
friends  they  brought  home  with  them," 
Pop  used  to  say.  "And  we  didn't  mind  the 
noise  or  the  phonograph  or  dancing." 
Thinking  back,  he  didn't  know  how  they 
managed:  "We  didn't  have  much  mon- 
ey .  .  ." 

rVLoney  they  didn't  have.  But,  if  a  house 
could  speak,  what  a  heartwarming  story 
the  old  place  on  Sharp  Avenue  could  tell 
of  the  family  who  lived  there  .  .  .  the 
music,  the  laughter,  and  the  full,  Irish 
fun.  "We  all  loved  to  go  over  there,"  Mary 
Bresnahan  says  now.  "Mrs.  Crosby  would 
turn  the  whole  house  over  to  us.  But,  at 
a  reasonable  hour,  she  would  come  and 
say,  'Now  it's  time  to  go  home.' " 

The  joint  really  started  jumping  when 
Harry  Lillis  did  his  "homework" — prac- 
ticing the  drums.  Any  early  opinion  to 
the  contrary,  Pop  Crosby  was  always  quick 
to  say  proudly  that  his  boy  Bing  was 
born  to  sing  and  to  perform.  And  Bing's 
mother  has  gone  on  record  privately,  re- 
futing any  popular  impression  that  he 
knows  nothing  about  music  technically. 
As  she  once  pointed  out.  "Bing  played  the 
drums  in  the  Gonzaga  College  orchestra — 
and  they  didn't  play  jazz,  either — so  you 
know  he  had  some  knowledge  of  music." 
Pressed,  Bing  has  admitted  to  a  few  voice 
lessons — but  gallantly  refuses  to  name 
any  instructor  to  share  the  responsibility. 

One  of  the  members  of  the  Gonzaga 
band — Leo  Lynn,  who  was  later  to  be 
Bing's  stand-in  in  Hollywood — speaks 
with  authority  of  days  when  they  both 
played  the  snare  drum  in  the  band.  He 
recalls  Bing's  application,  mentioning  one 
day  in  particular:  "We  were  in  the  Elks 
parade  in  downtown  Spokane,  going  down 
Main  Street.  It  was  raining  a  touch,  and 
we  were  really  beating  those  drums.  They 
wanted  us  to  play  good  and  loud.  'You 
put  a  hole  in  those  drums  and  we'll  treat 
you  after  the  parade,'  they  said.  Bing 
and  I  were  beating  them  to  death." 

Their  freshman  year  in  college,  both 
Leo  and  Bing  were  end-men  in  the  school 
minstrel  show:  "I  was  on  one  end  of  the 
line,  and  Bing  was  on  the  other.  I  had 
one  joke.  But  Bing  did  everything.  He  was 
really  the  star  of  the  show.  He  told  jokes, 
he  sang,  and  he'd  even  picked  up  a  little 
soft-shoe  dancing  on  the  side." 

Then — as  now,  with  his  experience  of 
twenty-three  years  working  closely  with 
him — it  was  evident  to  Leo  that  "Bing 
would  have  been  a  success  at  anything. 
He  always  believed  whatever  you  do — it 
was   worth   doing  well." 


ENJOY  A  PERMANENT, 
kBJG  PAY  CAREER  as  a 

,A  PRACTICAL 
NURSE 


EARN  AT  HOME  WHILE  LEARNING 

FREE  SAMPLE  LESSON  shows  how  easily  you  can 
become  a  professionally  trained  practical  nurse 
by  home  study  in  a  short  time.  NO  HIGH 
SCHOOL  NEEDED.     No  age  limit. 

FOR  FREE  LESSON  and 
FULL  INFORMATION 


I  Post  Graduate  Hospital 

•  School  of   Nursing 

I  9D77  Auditorium   Bldg. 

I  Chicago  5,   Illinois 


I 


Name. 


|   Address. 
I 

!. 


City. 


.State. 


BRONCHIAL  ASTHMA 
ATTACKS  CALL  FOR 


t.    SCHIFFMANN'S 

ASTHMADOR 


Effective  relief  anytime,  anywhere. 
Powder,  cigarette  or  pipe  mix. 

ASK  YOUR  DRUGGIST 

CHI-CHES-TERS 

#  Relieves  Monthly  Cramps 
In  9  out  of  lO  Cases! 
Get  quick,  long-lasting  relief 
from  menstrual  pain,  nervous 
tension  and  headaches  with  Chi- 
Ches-Ters.  Clinical  tests  prove 
9  out  of  10  women  do.  Money 
back  if  not  relieved.  Purse  Pak 
50tf.  Economy  sizes  $1.15  and 
$2.25  at  drug  stores  or  we  will  fill  direct  orders. 
FREE  BOOKLET  of  intimate  facts  mailed  in  plain 
envelope.  Write  today:  CHICHESTER  CHEMICAL 
COMPANY,  Dept.  19-S,  Philadelphia  46,  Pa. 


ENLARGEMENT 

Just  to  get  acquainted,  we  will 
make  you  a  FREE  beautiful  studio 
quality  5x7  black  and  white  en- 
largement of  any  snapshot,  photo 
or  negative.  Be  sure  to  include 
color  of  hair,  eyes  and  clothing, 
for  prompt  information  on  our 
Bargain  Offer  for  having  your  en- 
largement beautifully  hand-colored 
in  oil  and  mounted  in  a  hand- 
some frame.  Please  enclose  25c  for  handling  and 
mailing.  Limit  2.  Originals  returned.  We  will  pay 
$1 00.00  for  a  photo  selected  bi-monthly  to  be  used  in 
our  advertising.  Limited  to  U.S.A.  only.  Act  NOW! 
HOLLYWOOD  FILM  STUDIOS.  Dept.  F-3S7 
7021     Santa    Monica    Blvd.,    Hollywood    38,    Calif. 


SUFfEK  PSORIASIS 

(SCALV    SKIN    TROUBLE) 

MAKE  THE  ONE  1^D€RTI10IL 

:  spot^ 


SEE   FOR  YOURSELF 

no  matter  how  long  you 

have  suffered.  Write  tor 

free  book  on  Psoriasis 

and    DERMOIL    with 

actual  "before — after" 

photo  record  of  results. 


Se*u/frr 
vGENEROUS 
TRIAL 


Don't  be  embarrassed 

with  Psoriasis,  the  ugly, 

scaly  skin  disease.   Try 

non- staining    DERMOIL. 

Amazing  results  reported 

for  over  22  years!  Many 

grateful   users   report   the ' 

scaly  red  patches  on  body 

or  scalp  gradually  disappeared  and  they^^ ~ 

again  enjoyed  the  thrill  of  a  smooth  clear  ekln.  DERMOIL 

formula  is  used   by  many  doctors.   Must  give  definite 

benefit  or  your  money  back.  Make  our  famous  "One  Spot 

Test"!    SEND  10c  for  trial  bottle.  DERMOIL  sold  at 

Liggett  and  Walgreen  and  other   leading  Drug  Stores. 

Write  today  LAKE  LABORATORIES  Dept. 3304 

Box     3925     Strathmoor     Station.     Detroit    27,     Mich. 


87 


At  Gonzaga,  Bing  put  his  strong  rhythm 
arm — and  his  voice — to  work  commer- 
cially with  Al  Rinker's  "Musicaladers." 
Their  first  steady  job  was  for  three  dollars 
apiece  a  night,  playing  at  Lareida's  dance 
pavilion  a  few  miles  from  Spokane.  Jim- 
my Cottrell,  who  was  "hustling  bouts" 
during  those  days  when  Bing  was  singing 
for  a  few  bucks  wherever  he  could,  used 
to  go  out  to  Lareida's  to  hear  him  sing. 

"Bing  was  an  outstanding  singer  then," 
he  says.  "The  only  difference — his  voice  is 
deeper  now.  But  he  was  always  a  stylist. 
He  had  complete  control  of  any  song  he 
sang.  There  was  only  one  thing:  Bing  was 
doing  some  of  those  dreamy  Hawaiian 
numbers,  and  he  had  a  tendency  to  sing 
with  his  eyes  closed  then."  Jimmy  would 
dance  by  him  and  say,  in  a  loud  stage 
whisper,  "Keep  your  eyes  open  .  .  .  open 
up  those  eyes   .   .   ." 

But  Bing's  blue  eyes  were  wide  open — 
to  the  music  that  was  becoming  so  much 
a  part  of  him.  He'd  had  two  years  of  pre- 
law. But  he  know  that  words  without 
music  would  hold  small  meaning  for  him. 
The  words  had  to  be  set  to  melody  and  a 
beat —  and  that  beat  was  really  beckoning. 
And,  one  day,  his  itchy,  wig-wagging  left 
foot  took  him  away  .  .  .  while  his  ten- 
year-old  brother  watched,  wide-eyed,  from 
the  old  front  porch,  and  waved  him  off  to 
exciting  adventure.  .  .  . 

During  Bob's  boyhood  years,  there  was 
even  less  money  in  the  family  cookie  jar. 
With  extra  space  at  home,  Kate  Crosby 
rented  out  rooms  to  students  who  were 
going  to  Gonzaga  or  Holy  Names  Academy. 
And  Bob  figures  that,  if  doing  chores 
builds  character,  he  was  loaded  with  it 
during  this  time.  "I  had  it  tougher  than 
the  others,"  he  says  now,  of  the  cooperative 
homework  his  older  brothers  had  known. 
"Larry  was  married  and  editor  of  the  Wal- 
lace, Idaho.Pr ess-  Times.  Everett  and  Ted 
were  out  on  their  own.  When  Bing  left,  I 
was  the  only  boy  around.  I  piled  all  the 
wood  and  carried  it  to  the  basement." 

Also,  with  the  ranks  thinned,  Pop  and 
Kate  Crosby  were  able  to  pay  even  closer 
attention  to  any  infraction  of  house  rules. 
Even  easygoing  Pop,  who'd  always  ducked 
disciplining  any  of  them,  found  he  had  a 
free  hand.  Bob's  next-door  friend,  Father 
Joe  Kearney,  remembers  one  day  in  parti- 
cular when  Harry  Crosby,  Sr.  took  the 
situation — and  George  Robert — firmly  in 
hand:  "Bud  Luedcke,  an  adventurous  type 
of  kid  in  the  neighborhood,  had  taken 
Bob  for  a  ride  on  the  back  of  his  motor- 
cycle, and  Pop  thought  they'd  stayed  out 
much  too  long.  When  they  got  back,  Mr. 
Crosby  came  out  of  the  house  with  a  stick. 

"Bob  was  wearing  coveralls,  and  there 
was  a  catcher's  mitt  lying  in  the  yard.  Bud 
said,  'Why  don't  you  put  the  catcher's  mitt 
in  your  pants?'  Bob  thought  this  was  great 
advice,"  Father  Kearney  twinkles.  "He 
was  reaching  for  the  mitt — when  Mr. 
Crosby  reached  for  him.  Bud  was  laughing, 
and  Bob  was  reaching,  and  Bob's  dad 
didn't  see  anything  humorous  in  that  at 
all.  He  was  mad — and  he  really  whacked 
him." 

The  pattern  of  his  teen  years  was  as 
Irish  as  theirs  had  always  been — and  Bob's 
hardy  Crosby  heritage  was  to  prove  as 
fortunate.  Baseball  was  his  forte  and,  one 
day  while  he  was  catching,  a  friend  recalls, 
"Bob  got  hit  in  the  mouth  with  the  ball. 
He  lost  four  or  five  teeth,  and  it  changed 
his  facial  appearance  somewhat,  at  first." 
He  was  lucky — it  could  have  endangered 
his  whole  future  in  television  later  on. 

Like  his  brothers  before  him,  Bob  went 
T    to  dances  at  the  parish  hall.  But,  Irish  or 

*  no — "There    wasn't    too    much    romance. 

*  About  the  time  I  got  to  thinking  about 
girls,  Bing  was  a  big  success  with  Paul 
Whiteman.  And  it  was  as  tough  to  follow 

88 


him  in  romance  as  it  was  in  song,"  Bob 
explains.  "The  first  time  I  tried  to  kiss  a 
girl,  she  looked  up  into  my  eyes  soulfully 
and  said,  'How  tall  is  Bing?'  And  that  was 
that."  He  was,  however,  his  brother's 
most  enthusiastic  fan.  He  was  always 
inviting  pals  over  to  hear  Bing's  latest 
record.  And,  as  one  of  them  recalls, 
"Whenever  Bing  was  going  to  be  on  a 
radio  show,  Bob  would  always  keep  us 
informed,   to  make  sure  we  listened  in." 

During  the  summer  months,  Bob  was 
temporarily  employed  picking  apples  or 
cucumbers  or  strawberries — for  twenty- 
five  cents  an  hour — at  a  crossroads  called 
"Opportunity,"  about  twelve  miles  from 
Spokane.  "They  called  that  whole  area 
'Opportunity  Valley,' "  he  recalls.  .  .  . 
But,  when  opportunity  really  knocked  for 
George  Robert  Crosby,  it  was  to  be  with 
a  beat.  And,  even  then,  he  was  thinking 
in  terms  of  that  day  to  come. 

One  Spokane  friend  recalls  the  time  the 
two  of  them  and  another  pal  decided 
to  form  a  trio:  "We  all  met  at  Bob's  with 
that  thought  in  mind.  But  nothing  hap- 
pened. We  didn't  know  what  to  do,  or  how 
to  put  voices  together,  or  anything.  Bob's 
sister,  Catherine,  played  the  piano  for  us 
and  we  tried  to  sing  'Bye  Bye  Blues'  in 
harmony,  but  we  just  didn't  know  how  to 
be  a  trio." 

With  the  help  of  two  schoolmates,  Ray 
Hendricks  and  Bill  Pollard,  Bob  event- 
ually formed  "The  Delta  Rhythm  Boys 
Trio."  They  played  for  school  dances  and 
parties,  and  one  of  the  boys:  had  an  old 
jalopy  for  transportation  to  "engagements." 

One  day,  Bob  learned  that  Bing  was 
coming  to  Seattle  with  Paul  Whiteman's 
band,  and  he  went  looking  for  Joe  Kear- 
ney, full  of  enthusiastic  plans  for  going 
there:  "Bob  came  over  to  Gonzaga  in  an 
old  Ford,  with  another  kid,  and  said, 
'Come  on,  bring  your  banjo,  and  we'll  go 
to  Seattle.' "  By  then,  Joe  Kearney  could 
play  "a  couple  of  things  on  the  banjo." 
And  Bob  had  it  all  figured  out.  If  their 
jalopy  broke  down,  he  would  sing,  Bill 
Pollard  would  play  the  piano,  Joe  Kearney 
could  play  his  banjo,  and  they'd  work  their 
way  on.  Which  wasn't  necessary,  fortu- 
nately. For,  as  the  priest  twinkles  now, 
"We  couldn't  have  made  any  money  at  all. 

"Seattle  was  three  hundred  miles  away 
and,  to  us,  this  sounded  like  great  ad- 
venture. We  got  a  picture  of  Paul  White- 
man  and  put  it  up  in  the  car.  We  had  a 
big  sign  saying,  'Seattle  or  Bust'— and  we 
had  flat  tires  all  the  way.  But  Bing  was 
very  good  to  us.  He  got  us  a  room  at  the 
Olympic  Hotel  and  we  stayed  two  or  three 
days.  We'd  catch  the  show  down  at  the 
big  auditorium  at  night,  and  we'd  hang 
around  with  all  the  gang  during  the  day — 
and  it  was  a  great  experience.  Bob  was 
already  sold  he  was  going  to  be  a  singer, 
but  meeting  all  these  big  people  ...  all 
this  was  a  big  thrill." 

Not  long  after,  the  young  Irish  were 
again  gathering  at  the  gabled  house  on 
Sharp  Avenue — seeing  another  Crosby  off 
to  glory.  Bing  had  put  in  a  word  for  Bob 
with  Anson  Weeks,  Bob  had  sung  for  him 
long-distance — "with  a  very  bad  connec- 
tion"— and  had  gotten  the  job.  Now  he 
was  packing  excitedly  to  go  to  San  Fran- 
cisco and  join  the  band.  "We  were  all 
tremendously  excited,"  one  of  his  pals 
recalls.  "Bob  was  going  to  try  his  luck 
in  the  world.  And  we  were  seeing  him  off 
and  were  very  impressed.  Later  on,  when 
we  heard  he  was  making  a  fcundred  a 
week,  we  thought  he'd  really; ,  Inade  it. 
He  was  a  'smash  success.'" 

In  no  time,  however,  Bob  was  home. 
Fired  because  "I  felt  I  wasn't  ready  and 
shirked  the  job."  It  was  a  tough  homecom- 
ing for  Bob — who,  like  his  brother  be- 
fore him,  had  promised  the  skeptical: 
"Someday    you'll    be    payin'    to    hear    me 


sing."  That  pay-day  now  seemed  in- 
creasingly remote.  "That  was  really  a 
depressing  period  in  Bob's  life,"  an  old 
friend  says.  "I  remember  he  just  kind  of 
wandered  around.  He'd  started  his  career 
— in  a  way — and  then  flopped.  He  was 
really  low. 

"He  had  range,  but  his  voice  just  didn't 
quite  come  off  then.  He  had  a  vibrato  and 
he  had  to  work  to  get  rid  of  that.  And 
some  people  thought  he  was  trying  to 
sing  like  Bing.  He  had  a  sound  in  his 
voice,  a  quality,  that  reminded  you  of 
Bing's — but  Bob  certainly  wasn't  copying 
him." 

During  this  period,  Bob  says  now,  "I 
decided  to  learn  to  sing.  I  studied  with  an 
Italian  professor,  as  many  lessons  as  I 
could  afford.  And  I  sang  wherever  I 
could  get  experience."  He  sang  at  the 
Fifth  Street  Theater  and  at  McElroy's 
Ballroom  in  Seattle,  and  at  Lareida's  and 
Liberty  Lake  and  the  Walkathon  in  Spo- 
kane. In  the  face  of  those  who  kept  saying. 
"He  should  get  a  job  and  go  to  work  .  .  ." 

I  hen,  one  day,  Bob  Crosby  headed  South 
again,  on  another  trial  run.  No  triumphant 
departure  this  time:  "A  dealer  gave  me 
five  dollars  a  day  to  drive  a  used  car  to 
another  dealer  in  Los  Angeles,  and  I  came 
back  by  way  of  San  Francisco  and  told 
Anson  Weeks  I  felt  more  qualified  to  sing. 
Anson  said,  'Until  I'm  sure  of  the  same 
thing,  I'll  just  pay  you  ten  dollars  a  week 
and  board  and  room.' " 

Bob's  job,  however,  was  to  be  far 
rougher  than  just  proving  he  could  sing.  In 
the  years  that  followed,  his  was  the  chal- 
lenge of  building  an  identity  of  his  own, 
distinct  from  one  of  the  most  famous  and 
beloved  in  the  land.  He  couldn't  know, 
when  he  drove  out  of  the  city  limits  of 
Spokane  that  last  time,  just  how  much 
heart  and  how  much  hard  work  that 
would  mean.  And  how  long  a  time.   .  .   . 

True  to  prophecy,  when  Bob  Crosby 
and  his  Bobcats  really  got  to  rolling,  the 
folks  were  all  "paying"  to  hear  him  sing. 
Buying  smash  records  like  "Big  Noise 
from  Winnetka"  and  other  platters,  as 
fast  as  they  came  out.  All  along  Sharp 
Avenue,  the  younger  Irish  were  soon 
jumping  to  the  rhythm  of  Bob's  own  beat 
— a  Dixieland  beat.  Television  cinched  his 
fame  .  .  .  and  an  identity  of  his  own.  .  .  . 

But  Bob  Crosby  and  his  brother — the 
chap  in  the  wild  sport  shirt  who  goes 
around  ringing  doorbells  along  Sharp 
Avenue — will  always  feel  identified  with 
the  old  neighborhood  in  Spokane.  Here 
were  their  green  years,  the  nostalgic 
years.  Here  are  memories  too  strong  to  be 
broken  by  fame  or  by  time.  Here,  one 
fine  day,  Bing  Crosby — resplendent  in  cap 
and  gown,  and  flanked  by  his  family — was 
honored  by  his  old  alma  mater.  Here,  in 
the  same  building  where  a  mischievous 
boy  was  fired  from  the  choir  for  never 
showing  up  at  rehearsal,  he  heard  such 
words  as:  "In  token  of  the  high  regard  in 
which  he  is  held  by  his  school  and  his 
fellow  citizens,  Gonzaga  University  con- 
fers on  Harry  Lillis  Crosby  the  degree  of 
Doctor  of  Music." 

Here    today — in    token    of    Bing's    own 

high  regard  for  youth is  fast  rising  the 

ultra-modern  Crosby  Memorial  Library. 
Here  on  the  old  playing  field  at  Gonzaga — 
the  "playground"  of  the  noisy  young  Irish 
who  used  to  bat  balls  and  punt  pigskins 
and  dream  big.  Here  in  a  museum — to  be 
shared  with  those  who  dream — will  be  the 
Crosbyana.  All  the  golden  "wins,"  brought 
back  here  just  a  whistle  away  from  the 
old  gabled  house  on  Sharp  Avenue,  where 
all  the  music  began. 

It's  the  Crosby  way  of  saying  to  all  the 
ambitious  young  singers  of  today:  If  it 
can  happen  to  a  couple  of  boys  named 
Bing  and  Bob,  it  can  happen  to  anybody. 


I 


At  last — here's  an  etiquette  book  that  gives  you  the  correct 
answers  to  today's  social  questions.  In  this  book,  Elsa 
Maxwell,  the  famous  hostess  to  world  celebrities,  tells  you 
exactly  what  you  want  to  know  about  good  manners.  Here 
you  find  important  suggestions  on  good  manners  in  restau- 
rants— in  church — in  the  theatre — on  the  street — and  when 
you  travel. 

Elsa  Maxwell's  stimulating  book  is  different  from  the  usual 
dry-as-dust  etiquette  volume.  It's  gay!  It's  up-to-date.  It's 
just  chockfull  of  the  type  of  information  you  can  put  to 
immediate  use.  It  brings  you  a  thorough  social  education, 
that  will  enable  you  to  live  a  richer,  happier  life. 

Good  manners  are  one  of  the  greatest  personal  assets  you 
can  possess.  Good  jobs,  new  friends,  romance,  and  the 
chance  to  influence  people  can  be  won  with  good  manners. 
Ladies  and  gentlemen  are  always  welcome  .  .  .  anywhere. 
The  encouraging  thing  about  good  manners  is  that  anyone 
can  possess  them. 

ONLY  $1.00  The  price  of  this  book  that  puts  you  at  ease 
no  matter  where  you  are  costs  only  $1.00.  And  we  pay  the 
postage !  Mail  coupon  below — today. 


LEARN   THE   CORRECT   ANSWERS   TO    THESE   PROBLEMS 


ENGAGEMENTS  —  Chaperons. 
When  He  Proposes,  The  En- 
gagement Ring,  Proper  Gifts 
to  a  Fiance,  The  Announce- 
ment, Etiquette  following  the 
Announcement,  Showers 
WEDDINGS— Time  and  Place. 
Invitations,  Wedding  An- 
nouncements, Second  Mar- 
riages, Acceptance  and  Regrets, 
Who  Pays  for  What,  Wedding 
Presents,  The  Wedding  Dress. 
Bridesmaids' Dresses.  What  the 
Groom  Wears,  The  Best  Man 
and  Ushers,  The  Trousseau, 
The  Bridesmaids'  Luncheon, 
The  Wedding  Rehearsal,  Wed- 
ding Pictures,  Going  to  the 
Church,  The  Best  Man,  The 
Receiving  Line,  The  Bride's 
Table,  The  Parents'  Table,  Re- 
ception,   Refreshments.    Wed- 


ding Breakfast,  Cocktail  or  Tea 
Party,  Buffet  Supper,  Dinner. 
The  Toast,  The  Home  Wed- 
ding. INTRODUCTIONS  —  In- 
troducing Relatives,  When  You 
Introduce  Yourself,  Group  In- 
troductions, Proper  Responses 
to  Introductions,  Hand-Shak- 
ing, Who  Stands— and  When. 
Gloves,  Doffing  the  Hat,  Say- 
ing Goodbye.  MANNERS  IN 
PUBLIC  PLACES  —  Greetings 
on  the  Street,  Doors,  In  Trans- 
it, Taxicabs,  The  Theatre,  In 
Church,  Restaurants.  VISIT- 
ING CARDS  AND  THEIR  USE 
—Size,  Names  and  Titles,  The 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Cards,  The  Fold- 
over  Card,  The  Message  Card. 
Leaving  a  Visiting  Card.  IN- 
VITATIONS —  Formal  Invita- 
tions,   Telephone    Invitations. 


Informal  Notes  of  Invitations 
and  Answers,  Withdrawing  an 
Invitation.  PARTIES  —  The 
Tea  Party,  Cocktail  Parties, 
Buffets,  Breakfast,  Brunch. 
Luncheon,  Table  Settings.  Din- 
ner, Bridge  and  Canasta,  Chil- 
dren's Parties.  TABLE  MAN- 
NERS—Eating  Certain  Foods. 
Which  Fork  to  Use,  The  Nap- 
kin. LETTERS  — The  Bread 
and  Butter  Letter,  Thank  You 
Letters,  Letters  of  Condolence. 
WHEN  DEATH  OCCURS— Ar- 
rangements, Flowers,  A  Church 
Funeral,  The  Funeral  at  Home. 
Burial,  Mourning.  TRAVEL- 
LING—Trains,  Airplanes. 
Ships,  Passports,  Hotels,  Tips. 
WHAT  SHALL  I  WEAR  — 
Clothes  for  men  and  Women 
Gifts — Childrens'  Manners. 


•l 

J    BARTHOLOMEW  HOUSE,  INC.,  Dept.  WG-7-57 
i    205   E.  42nd  St.,   New  York   17.   N.  Y. 

.    Send    me    postpaid 
i    ETIQUETTE   BOOK 

a   copy   of 
1    enclose 

ELSA   MAXWELL'S 
$1.00. 

■    NAME 

Please    Print 

1    STREET 

1    CITY 

.STATE 

Tliat  Ivory  Look-  so  clear 

■m  ...  so  easily  yours 


so  fresh. 


Gentle  enough    for  a    baby's    skin, 
pure,  mild  Ivory  is  so  right  for  your 


A  complexion  smooth  and  clear— petal  soft  and  fresh!  That's  what 
the  magic  of  Ivory's  mildness  can  give  to  you.  Just  make  a  simple  change 
to  regular  care  with  this  soap  that's  mild  enough  for  a  baby's  skin,  and 
soon  your  complexion  will  improve.  You'll  like  the  new  freshness — 
the  finer  texture— the  smoother  feel.  You'll  like  That  Ivory  Look. 

99  '$io%  pure. .   it  floats  ' 

More   doctors  scciuise  Ivory  than  any  other  sostp 


R4DJO 
MIRROR 


HO  MIRROR  •  avc 


WHOT 
INGERS 
1957 


Bowen 
Carey 
nny  Cash 
ie  Cochran 
Hie  Grade 
rge  Hamilton,]!! 
Hunter 
iy  James 
n  Jones 
dy  Knox 


EXCLUSIVE! 

MUSIC-MAKER 

and  the  Pride  ol 

THE  DAKOTAS 


The  Pat  Boones 

Go  to  Hollywood 

• 

Sam  Levenson 
on  Teenagers 


Tlxat  Ivoiy  Look    so  clear... so  fresh. 

. . .  so  easily  yours   t 


What  a  sweet  summer  dream— and  how  That  Ivory  Look  becomes  her!  A  glowing  look 

that  can  be  yours  through  the  magic  of  Ivory's  mildness.  Remember,  the  milder  your  soap, 

the  prettier  your  skin— and  Ivory  has  a  mildness  all  its  own.  A  simple  change  to  regular 

Ivory  care  leaves  your  complexion  clearer,  fresher.  You'll  have  That  Ivory  Look. 

99  'XoXpure®. . .  it  floats 
Afore  doctors  SbcLuise  Ivory  tHsurt  e^ny  other  soajy 


-~ 


Wash  your  face  regularly  with 
pure,  mild  Ivory.  Gentle  enough 
for  a  baby's.skin — so  right  for 
your  complexion,  too. 


(DID  YOU    SEE   POOR  POLLY  ON  TV?) 


Polly  came  home  from  the 

party,  weeping.  "I  had  the 

most  miserable  time,"  she 

told  her  mother. 


She  had  counted  on  a  wonderful  eve- 
ning .  .  .  but  it  didn't  turn  out  that 
way.  What  good  are  good  looks  if  a 
girl  has  bad  breath? 


Polly  had  depended  on  tooth  paste 
alone.  But  the  most  common  cause  of 
bad  breath  is  germs  in  the  mouth.  No 
tooth  paste  is  antiseptic,  so  .  .  . 


No  tooth  paste  kills  germs  the  way 
Listerine  Antiseptic  does  . . .  instantly 
...  by  millions. 


STOPS  BAD  BREATH 

: 

THAN  TOOTH  PASTE 


That's  why  Listerine  stops  bad  breath 
four  times  better  than  tooth  paste. 


Dances  are  fun  for  Polly  now.  What 
a  difference!  With  Listerine,  a  girl 
gives  her  charm  a  fair  break. 


...  THE  MOST  WIDELY  USED 
ANTISEPTIC  IN   THE   WORLD 


WHERE 
WERE 
YOU... 


WHEN   EVERYONE  ELSE 
WAS  ON  THE  BEACH? 

So  you're  missing  out  on  all  the  fun, 
playing  absentee  at  beach  parties,  letting 
everyone  else  have  a  wonderful  time — 
while  you  hide  away  with  your  monthly 
"problems"! 

Surely  by  now  you've  heard  of 
Tampax®  internal  sanitary  protection. 
Invisible  and  unfelt  when  in  place,  it 
never  can  show  and  no  one  can  know 
your  secret.  What's  more,  it  prevents 
odor  from  forming  and  telling  tales! 

Tampax  is  the  daintiest  protection  in 
the  world  to  insert  and  dispose  of. 
Your  fingers  never  touch  it.  Another  nice 
thing  about  it,  you  can  carry  spares  just 
by  tucking  them  inside  your  purse. 

Enjoy  the  freedom  of  the  beach — 
swim  if  you  want  to — use  Tampax!  Have 
done  with  bulging  pads  and 
belts!  Wear  the  sleekest  bathing 
suit  under  the  sun — and  play 
beauty  on  the  beach  or  in  the 
sea,  just  as  you  choose! 

Don't  let  summer  fun  pass  you  by. 
When  problem  days  roll  'round,  be 
modern — use  Tampax.  3  absorbencies 
(Regular,  Junior,  Super)  wherever  drug 
products  are  sold.  Tampax  Incorporated, 
Palmer,  Mass. ->, 


Invented  by  a  doctoi — 
now  used  by  millions  of  women 


TV 


RAU9IO 
MIRROR 


AUGUST,   1957 


MIDWEST  EDITION 


VOL.  48,  NO.  3 


Ann  Higginbotham,  Editorial  Director 


Ann  Mosher,  Editor 
Teresa  Buxton,  Managing  Editor 
Claire  Safran,  Associate  Editor 
Gay   Miyoshi,  Assistant   Editor 


Jack  Zasorin,  Art  Director 

Frances  Maly,  Associate  Art  Director 

Joan  Clarke,  Art  Assistant 

Bud  Goode,   West  Coast  Editor 


PEOPLE  ON  THE  AIR 

What's  New  on  the  East  Coast by  Peter  Abbott  4 

What's  New  on  the  West  Coast by  Bud  Goode  6 

The  Skiffle  Boys by  Lilla  Anderson  8 

Christmas  in  July   (Bill  Leyden  visits  Santa's  Village) 16 

Are  We  Afraid  of  Our  Teen-Age  Kids  (Sam  Levenson) .  .by  Gladys  Hall  30 

From  the  Fields  of  The  Dakotas  (Lawrence  Welk)  .  .by  Maxine  Arnold  32 

The  Edge  Of  Night  (Fiction  Bonus  based  on  the  popular  daytime  drama)  36 

In  the  Swim  at  Lake  Arrowhead  (Carol  Richards) 38 

The  Pat  Boones  Go  to  Hollywood , by  Shirley  Boone  42 

New  Hot  Singers  of  1957 by  Helen  Bolstad  44 

Where  Adam  Is  King  (Ida  Lupino  and  Howard  Duff)  by  Fredda  Balling  50 

Be  a  Cool  Warm-Weather  Hostess  (Arlene  Francis)  .  . .  .by  Frances  Kish  52 

Country  Music  Comes  to  Town 54 

Two  Hands  Full  of  Laughter   (ZaSu  Pitts) by  Eunice  Field  58 

FEATURES  IN  FULL  COLOR 

Almost  Like  Angels  (Bill  Williams  and  Barbara  Hale)  by  Gordon  Budge  22 

My  Sentimental  Tommy  Sands by  Grace  Sands  26 

The  Truth  About  Polly  Bergen by  Martin   Cohen  28 

YOUR  LOCAL  STATION 

Tempest    at    a    Turntable    (WAAF) 10 

He's  Got  'Em  Covered  (WWJ) 12 

Oh,   Brother!    (WDGY) 14 

Every  Day  Is  Ladies'  Day  (KSCJ) 62 

YOUR  SPECIAL  SERVICES 

Movies  on  TV 3 

New  Patterns  for  You  (smart  wardrobe  suggestions ) 11 

Information  Booth 13 

Churning    the    Channels 16B 

TV  Radio  Mirror  Goes  to  the  Movies by  Janet  Graves  20 

Beauty:  The  Lady  Dances  (Kathryn  Murray) by  Harriet  Segman  60 

Vote  for  Your  Favorites  (monthly  Gold  Medal  ballot) 78 

New  Designs  for  Living  (needlecraft  and  transfer  patterns) 88 

Cover  portrait  of  Pat  Boone  by  David  Workman  of  U.  S.  Features 


BUY  YOUR  SEPTEMBER  ISSUE  EARLY     •     ON  SALE  AUGUST  6 


.  _  PUBLISHED       MONTHLY      by      Macfadden 

.x*  ■  °  *        Publications,    Inc.,    New  York,   N.  Y. 

EXECUTIVE,      ADVERTISING      AND      EDI- 
i  TORIAL      OFFICES      at      205      East      42nd 
-eet.    New  York,   N.   Y.   Editorial   Branch 
.Office,    6269    Selma    Ave..    Hollywood    28, 
Calif.     Irving     S.     Manheimer,     President; 
e      Andrews,      Vice      President:      Meyer 
cVLl*^      Dworkin,    Secretary  and  Treasurer.  Adver- 
tising offices  also    in  Chicago,    221   North 
La  Salle    Street,    and    San   Francisco. 

SUBSCRIPTION  RATES:  $3.00  one  year,  U.  S.  and 
Possessions  and  Canada.  S5.00  per  year  for  all  other 
countries. 

CHANGE  OF  ADDRESS:  6  weeks'  notice  essential. 
When  possible,  please  furnish  stencil  impression  ad- 
dress from  a  recent  issue.  Address  changes  can  be 
made  only  if  vou  send  us  your  old,  as  well  as  your 
new  address.  Write  to  TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East 
42nd  Street,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 
MANUSCRIPTS:    All   manuscripts  will  be  carefully  con- 


sidered, but  publisher  cannot  be  responsible  for  loss  or 
damage.  It  is  advisable  to  keep  a  duplicate  copy  for 
your  records.  Only  those  manuscripts  accompanied  by 
stamped,  self-addressed  return  envelopes  or  with  suffi- 
cient return  postage  will  be  returned. 

FOREIGN  editions  handled  through  Macfadden  Publi- 
cations International  Corp.,  205  East  42nd  Street,  New 
York  17,  N.  Y.  Irving  S.  Manheimer,  President;  Doug- 
las Lockhart,    Vice   President. 

RE-ENTERED  as  Second-Class  Matter,  June  28.  1954, 
at  the  Post  Office  at  New  York,  N.  Y.,  under  the  Act  of 
March  3,  1879.  Authorized  as  Second  Class  mail,  P.O. 
Dept.,  Ottawa,  Ont.,  Canada.  Copyright  1957  by  Mac- 
fadden Publications,  Inc.  All  rights  reserved  under  in- 
ternational Copyright  Convention.  All  rights  reserved 
under  Pan-American  Copyright  Convention.  Todos  de- 
rechos  reservados  segun  la  Convencion  Pan- Americana 
de  Propiedad  Literaria  y  Artistica.  Title  trademark 
registered  in  U.S.  Patent  Office.  Printed  in  U.  S.  A. 
by    Art    Color    Printing    Company. 

Member   of    the   TRUE    STORY    Women's    Group. 


Showing  this  month 


ASTONISHED    HEART,    THE     (U-I) : 

Adult,  witty  treatment  of  a  marriage  prob- 
lem, from  the  English  angle.  Psychiatrist 
Noel  Coward,  happily  wed  to  placid  Celia 
Johnson,  grapples  with  a  sudden  infatuation 
for  dashing  Margaret  Leighton. 

BACHELOR  AND  THE  BOBBY-SOX- 
ER, THE  (RKO)  :  Delightful  clowning  by 
Cary  Grant,  as  a  gay  blade  being  pursued 
by  ardent  teenager  Shirley  Temple.  As 
the  girl's  sister — a  judge! — Myrna  Loy 
adds  more   charm. 

BIG  STREET,  THE  (RKO):  Lucille 
Ball  does  an  excellent  dramatic  job  in  the 
Damon  Runyon  story  of  a  gangster's  ex- 
sweetie,  crippled,  yet  rebuffing  the  friend- 
ship of  bus-boy  Henry  Fonda. 

CAREFREE  (RKO):  Mild  plot,  ribbing 
the  psychoanalysis  routine.  But  who  cares? 
— with  such  exuberant  dancing  by  the 
young  Astaire  and  Rogers.  Fred's  the 
doctor;  Ginger's  the  patient;  Ralph  Bell- 
amy's her  fiance. 

GOOD  SAM  (RKO) :  Likeable  people  put 
across  the  story  of  a  selfless  small-towner 
and  his  family.  Gary  Cooper's  the  gener- 
ous hero;  Ann  Sheridan,  his  wife. 

GUEST  WIFE  (U.A.)  :  Gentle  comedy 
teams  Claudette  Colbert  with  Dick  Foran 
and  Don  Ameche.  War  correspondent  Don 
has  told  his  bosses  he's  married,  so  Dick 
lends  wife  Claudette  to  keep  up  the  hoax. 

INTERMEZZO  (U.A.):  Touching  ro- 
mance-with-music  stars  the  young  Ingrid 
Bergman  and  the  late  Leslie  Howard,  as  a 
pianist  and  a  violinist,  whose  illicit  love  is 
brief. 

LUCKY  PARTNERS  (RKO):  Pleasant 
farce  pairs  Ronald  Colman  and  Ginger 
Rogers,  as  Greenwich  Villagers  who  win  a 
sweepstakes  bonanza.  Jack  Carson  and 
Spring   Byington  also  contribute   chuckles. 

MATING  OF  MILLIE,  THE  (Colum- 
bia) :  Any  bus-rider  will  laugh  at  the  first 
sequence.  Glenn  Ford's  the  driver;  Evelyn 
Keyes,  the  career  girl  who  must  find  a  hus- 
band before  adopting  a  child. 

MY  FAVORITE  WIFE  (RKO):  Deftly 
done  laugh-fest,  casting  Cary  Grant  as  an 
innocent  bigamist.  Wed  to  Gail  Patrick, 
he's  staggered  by  the  amazing  return  of 
Irene  Dunne,  long  marooned  on  a  desert 
island  with  rugged  Randolph  Scott. 

NOTORIOUS  (RKO)  :  In  a  dandy  Hitch- 
cock thriller,  Cary  Grant  and  Ingrid  Berg- 
man play  the  Nazi-American  spy  game  in 
Brazil.     With  that  famous  "butterfly  kiss" 


TRIO  (Paramount):  Fine  English  film, 
based  on  three  Maugham  stories.  James 
Hayter  plays  a  gaily  .  successful  illiterate. 
Nigel  Patrick's  the  apparently  unbearable 
life-of-the-party  on  a  cruise  ship.  Jean 
Simmons,  Michael  Rennie  share  wistful 
love. 

YOU  WERE  NEVER  LOVELIER   (Co 

lumbia)  :  Graceful,  featherweight  musical. 
As  a  Norte  Americano  dancer,  Fred  Astaire 
romances  Argentinean   Rita   Hayworth. 


More  grown-ups  and  growing-ups  depend  on  Mum 
than  on  any  other  deodorant 


New 


stops  odor... 
without  irritation 


So  safe  for  any  normal  skin  you  can  use  it  every  day 

If  you've  ever  worried  about  underarm  stinging  or  burning  from  using 
a  deodorant  daily  or  right  after  shaving  or  a  hot  bath— now  you  can  set 
your  mind  at  ease. 

New  Mum  Cream  is  so  gentle  and  safe  for  normal  skin,  you  can  use 
it  whenever  you  please,  as  often  as  you  please.  And  Mum  Cream  gives 
you  the  kind  of  protection  you  can't  possibly  get  from  any  other  leading 
deodorant  — because  it  works  a  completely  different  way. 

Mum  Cream  is  the  only  leading  deodorant  that  works  entirely  by 
stopping  odor  .  .  .  contains  no  astringent  aluminum  salts.  And  it  keeps 
on  working  actively  to  stop  odor  24 
hours  a  day.  It's  so  effective— yet  so  safe 
—  isn't  Mum  the  deodorant  for  you? 

MUM®  stops  odor  24  hours  a  day  with  M-3 

(bacteria-destroying  hexachlorophene) 


WHAT'S  NEW  ON 


By  PETER  ABBOTT 


Quizzical  Hal  March  marches  on  to  Hollywood  this  summer  with  wife  Candy. 
He'll  spend  his  vacation  starring  as  a  con  man  in  the  film,  "Hear  Me  Good." 


T    Fleetfooted  Marge  and  Sower  Champion  find  that  a  tricky  dance  routine  is 
R    simple  compared  to  the  swing-your-program  replacement  whirl  on  television. 

For  What's  New  On  The  West  Coast,  See  Page  G 


Love  Knows  No  Channels:  When  an 
ABC  cowboy  falls  for  a  CBS  filly, 
what  can  a  veepee  say?  Such  is 
the  case  as  video's  most  handsome 
gun-toter  bites  the  dust  for  a  toe 
dancer.  Hugh  O'Brian  may  be  back 
on  the  West  Coast  filming  more  Wyatt 
Earp  episodes,  but  his  heart  re- 
mains in  Long  Island  with  Dorothy 
Bracken,  a  June  Taylor  dancer.  Hugh 
admits  it  was  Dorothy's  blond  beauty 
that  first  attracted  him,  but  adds, 
"After  one  date,  I  knew  this  was  a 
girl  I  could  really  respect."  The  32- 
year-old  bachelor  denies  that  it's 
an  engagement,  "but  I  don't  deny 
the  fact.  I  mean  I  can't  deny  that  I 
think  so  much  of  her."  Last  trip 
to  New  York  City,  Hugh  traveled 
the  Long  Island  Railroad  to  meet 
Dorothy's  parents.  This  must  mean 
something.   Ask   any   L.I.    commuter. 

Short  &  Sassy:  Phil  Silvers  turning 
down  fabulous  night-club  offers  to 
hold  wife's  hand.  Baby  Bilko  due 
any  minute. . . .  CBS  special  eventer, 
Bill  Leonard,  married  Mike  Wallace's 
first  wife,  Norma  "Kappy"  Kaphan. 
.  .  .  Andy  "Butterfly"  Williams  co- 
stars  with  June  Valli  in  Nat  "King" 
Cole  periods  over  NBC -TV  until  Sep- 
tember 5.  Andy  goes  on  singing  alone 
in  private  life.  Those  long-distance 
phone  calls  he  makes  to  San  Fernando 
Valley  are  to  have  a  bark  with  his 
boxer  Barnaby.  .  .  .  End  of  season 
finds  Lucy  still  champ,  ahead  of  run- 
ners-up  by  over  two-million  viewers. 
.  .  .  Lovely  Ilene  Woods,  frequent 
singer  on  Arthur  Godfrey  Time,  de- 
nies anything  but  good  friendship 
with  Ted  Williams,  but  she  never 
misses  a  ball  game  with  Ted  and  he 
never  seems  to  miss  dinner  with  Ilene 
when  he's  in  Manhattan.  .  .  .  Back- 
stage, Julie  La  Rosa  relaxes  playing 
chess  with  wife  Rory.  ...  If  you  didn't 
know  it,  Bride  And  Groom  is  back, 
weekdays,  2: 30  P.M.  on  NBC-TV.  .  .  . 
CBS-TV  is  sweating  over  possibility 
that  Como  may  expand  to  ninety  min- 
utes. What  to  do  about  the  Como 
power?  Consider  a  half -hour  stanza 
each  for  Les  Femmes  Monroe  and 
Mansfield.  Back  to  back,  Marilyn  and 
Jayne  should  eclipse  all  TV  screens. 
.  .  .  Walter  Winchell  dropped  his 
$7 -million  suit  against  ABC  since 
ABC -TV  scheduled  his  new  Desilu 
show  for  the  fall.  Walter  hosts  dra- 
matic series  and  promises  not  to  get 
so  staccatoooooo. 

I  Got  Sands  in  My  Head:  A  teen-age 
gal  is  a  gal  just  so  long.  Comes  Tommy 
or  Elvis,  the  gals  turn  into  battling 
banshees,  screamy  weemies,  frantic 
fillies.  During  Tommy  Sands'  per- 
sonal appearance  run  at  New  York's 
Roxy  Theater,  it  was  murder.  In  the 


THE  EAST  COAST 


first  three  days,  eager  fans  knocked 
his  mother  over,  threw  Tommy  to  the 
ground  twice  and  stripped  two  jackets 
from  his  back.  Then  on  the  fourth  day 
things  got  rough.  Tommy,  accom- 
panied by  road  manager  and  rep  from 
Capitol  Records,  was  only  trying  to 
get  back  into  theater  to  make  stage 
show.  He  cruised  up  to  theater  in  car. 
Stage  entrance  bristling  with  dames. 
Drove  to  executives'  entrance.  Same 
thing.  Tommy  and  friends  conferred. 
Decided  to  outsmart  gals  by  going  in 
main  lobby.  So  they  jumped  from  cab, 
but  gals  in  ticket  line  spotted  Tommy. 
Tommy  and  friends  sprinted  through 
outer  lobby  to  ticket-taker.  He  want- 
ed tickets.  Didn't  recognize  Tommy. 
Girls  stampeding.  Cap  rep  pushed 
ticket-taker  aside  and  three  men 
headed  into  inner  lobby.  Horrors. 
Two  girls  headed  for  popcorn-vendor 
spot  Tommy.  Scream,  "Tommy!  Tom- 
my!" Every  door  in  lobby  swings  open 
and  girls  pour  in.  Light  nightmare. 
One  girl  jumps  Tommy  from  rear. 
Cap  rep  pulls  her  off.  She  swings  on 
him  with  fist  and  splits  his  lip  and 
cracks  a  tooth.  Tommy  is  flat  on  floor 
and  another  jacket  is  shredding.  His 
road  manager  is  down  and  trampled. 
Three  men  finally  get  to  feet  and  make 
flying  wedge.  With  girls  trailing,  start 
up  steps  to  mezzanine  and  on  up  to 
first  balcony  and  second  balcony. 
Right  up  to  projection  room,  then  out 
on  roof  and  lock  door.  Down  fire 
escape,  through  storage-room  window 
and  finally  backstage.  Thereafter 
Tommy  checked  into  theater  in  morn- 
ing and  stayed  all  day.  He  got  long- 
distance consolation  from  his  favorite 
girl,  Molly  Bee.  This  is  just  about  the 
nicest,  cutest  couple  in  show-biz,  al- 
though they  are  only  in  semi-steady 
stage.  Both  date  others. 

Hot  Stuff:  Sonny  James  takes  a  two- 
week  July  vacation  with  family  in 
Hackleburg,  Alabama.  Joining  family 
reunion  will  be  best  gal,  Doris  of  Dal- 
las, a  beauty  in  image  of  Dorothy 
Malone.  .  .  .  Big  summer  headache 
for  weekend  variety  shows  is  getting 
name  guest  stars.  Ace  comics  and 
singers,  already  in  high  income 
bracket,  would  rather  spend  Saturday 
and  Sunday  on  the  beach  than  making 
money.  .  .  .  Dig  Victor's  wonderful 
album,  "It's  a  Wonderful  World,"  fea- 
turing Barbara  Carroll  on  piano. 
You'll  understand  why  she's  the  high- 
est-paid female  performer  in  jazz  field. 
.  .  .  Mary  Martin's  new  contract  pays 
her  $600,000  for  six  spectaculars,  at 
the  rate  of  one  a  year.  .  .  .  Charles 
Van  Doren  having  problems.  Said  that 
his  work  at  NBC  so  time-consuming 
he  cannot  finish  work  on  doctorate, 
and  a  university  teacher  without  a 
Ph.D.  is  like  a  rock  'n'  roller  out  of 


jeans.  Charlie  may  give  up  teaching. 
.  .  .  Canadian  Mike  Kane,  leading  man 
(David  Brown)  in  This  Is  Nora 
Drake,  temporarily  out  of  show  to 
play  Shakespearean  stuff  at  Stratford 
Festival  in  Ontario.  .  .  .  The  queen  of 
summer  ratings,  Kathryn  Murray,  had 
both  NBC  and  CBS  fighting  for  her 
this  year.  Katie  had  been  kind  of 
hoping  Arthur  would  forego  the  sum- 
mer show  this  year.  She  says,  "I've 
been  hoping  for  a  vacation  abroad  for 
eight  years  now." 

Hotter  Than  a  Pistol:  New  flip-bait 
is  tall  and  slim,  blond  and  handsome 
Steve  Karmen.  Steve  is  due  back  on 
Godfrey  show  this  month.  Just  nine- 
teen, the  Bronx-born  youngster  turn- 
ed to  singing  from  starvation.  He 
studied  to  be  an  actor,  but  lack  of 
work  led  him  to  a  guitar  and  folk 
singing.  He  had  worked  in  a  few  Man- 
hattan clubs,  Ruban  Bleu,  The  Living 
Room  and  The  Velvet  Room,  when  he 
tried  out  for  Talent  Scouts  back  in 
May.  On  the  show,  he  was  a  loser  but 
so  impressed  Arthur  and  Jan  Davis 
that  he  was  immediately  booked  for 
three  successive  weeks,  both  morning 
and  night-time  on  the  Godfrey  shows. 
Mercury  Records  came  around  with 
a  contract.  But,  one  day  on  the  show, 
Arthur,  so  taken  with  Steve's  Calypso 
numbers,  asked,  "Have  you  ever  been 
to  Trinidad?"  "No."  "You  ought  to 
go."  "I  don't  have  the  money."  "So 
you  work  with  us  until  you  earn 
enough  and  go.  Then  when  you  come 
back,  tell  us  all  about  it."  So  Steve, 
though  hot  as  a  pistol,  took  Arthur's 
advice  and  dropped  everything  and 
took  off  on  a  60-day  cruise.  This 
month,  he  returns  to  Godfrey  Time 
to  resume  a  career  that  is  causing  as 
much  excitement  over  at  CBS  as 
early  Pat  Boone. 

Air-Conditioned  Items:  Hal  March 
spends  his  vacation  on  the  Paramount 
lot.  Makes  movie  "Hear  Me  Good" 
and  stars  as  charming  con  man. 
August,  he  returns  to  New  York  and 
TV  and  a  rented  house  in  New  Ro- 
chelle.  .  .  .  McGuire  Sisters  get  no 
vacation.  This  month,  they  work  ten 
days  in  Syracuse.  August,  they're  in 
Atlantic  City  and  Wildwood.  In  be- 
tween personal  appearances,  they  re- 
turn to  New  York  and  Godfrey  Time. 
Phyl  says,  "The  only  time  we  get  a 
vacation  is  when  one  of  us  gets  sick 
and  the  others  can't  possibly  work." 
.  -.  .  Ava  Thomas,  gravel-voice  on 
Robert  Q's  show,  takes  three-month 
jaunt  in  Europe  with  mother.  .  .  .  The 
Fred  Waring  aggregation  takes  over 
the  Garry  Moore  daily  slot  on  July  22 
and  the  Merry  Moores  take  off  until 
September  2.  Durward  has  a  hide- 
away   in     (Continued    on    page    15) 


Eric  had  to  fatten  up  to  five  pounds 
before    Melba    Rae   took   him    home. 


Slim  and  svelte  now,  June  Valli  is  wel- 
come  summer   songbird   on   NBC-TV. 


On  Arthur  Godfrey's  advice,   young 
Steve   Karmen   traipsed   to  Trinidad. 


WHAT'S  NEW  ON 


By  BUD  GO ODE 


End  of  an  Era:  Or,  "We  haven't  lost 
a  daughter,  we've  gained  a  son"  de- 
partment: I  Love  Lucy,  still  the  heavy- 
weight rating  champ,  retires  from  the 
ring  this  year.  CBS-TV  bought  out  the 
Desilu  interest  for  a  reported  $5,000,000. 
The  way  the  comedy  flowed  the  past 
six  years,  that  comes  to  about  a  buck 
a  laugh.  A  good  buy  for  CBS.  .  .  .  But 
not  "goodbye"  to  Lucy  and  Desi.  They 
were  no  sooner  back  from  their  Ha- 
waiian vacation  than  Desi  took  off  for 
New  York  to  sign  their  new  Ford  Motor 
Company  contract  for  five  one-hour 
shows  to  be  seen  in  the  '57-'58  season. 
.  .  .  And  another  television  era  seems 
to  be  threatened:  Bob  Crosby  is  re- 
ported going  off  CBS -TV  with  his  day- 
time show.  Unless  CBS  can  find  a 
night-time  spot  for  Bob,  his  show  won't 
have  a  home,  come  the  end  of  August. 

Truth  Takes  a  Trip:  On  Ralph  Ed- 
wards' annual  junket  to  the  Truth  Or 
Consequences,  New  Mexico,  fiesta,  Hol- 
lywood's best  turned  up  as  guests.  They 
included  Linda  Darnell;  songstress  Erin 
O'Brien;  Rin  Tin  Tin's  master,  Rip 
Masters  (Jim  Brown);  Truth  Or  Con- 
sequences emcee,  Bob  Barker;  Lassie's 
favorite  gal,  Jan  Clayton;  and  Tommy 
Sands  and  Molly  Bee.  Let  it  be  known 
that  the  town  celebrated  with  "Molly 
Beeburgers"  and  "Tommy  Sand- 
wiches"! .  .  .  Later,  after  a  local  Truth 
Or  Consequences  show,  emceed  by  the 
show's  new  quiz  king,  Bob  Barker, 
Ralph  Edwards  also  did  a  local  This 
Is  Your  Life,  surprising  lovely  actress 
Jan  Clayton  (New  Mexico  born  and 
bred).  When  Jan  went  up  on  stage,  she 
still  thought  Ralph  was  kidding.  Then, 
realizing  this  was  "it,"  she  broke  into 
tears.  Ralph  reached  for  his  ever-ready 
handkerchief — and  found  no  back  pock- 


Young'uns  at  Truth  Or  Consequences  hospital  party  with  Ralph  Edwards,  Jan 
Clayton,   Molly  Bee,   Bob  Barker,   Erin  O'Brien,  Jim  Brown  and  Eddie  Truman. 


et  in  his  Western  fiesta  outfit!  "Seven 
years  I've  been  doing  this  show,"  he 
exclaimed,  "and  this  is  the  first  time 
I've  been  caught  without  a  handker- 
chief— or  pockets!" 

Who  Sez:  Tennessee  Ernie  says,  "New 
fathers  are  like  private  eyes — they're 
always  trying  to  pin  something  on 
somebody."  .  .  .  Lawrence  Welkism: 
Lawrence,  in  describing  the  beauty  of 
the  Lennon  Sisters  to  an  acquaintance, 
said,  "I  can  always  tell  Dianne  apart 
from  Kathy,  because,  besides  being 
older,  her  nose  is  pointier."  That  it  is. 
Incidentally,  Mama  Lennon  had  her 
tenth  child  (nine  living)  when  Joseph 
Lawrence   Lennon   was   born    May    9. 

Casting:  Bob  Horton,  rugged,  hand- 
some and  talented,  has  been  cast  as  the 
frontier  scout  in  NBC -TV's  Wagon 
Train  series,  starring  Ward  Bond.  Show 
begins  September  14.  .  .  .  The  Real 
McCoys,  starring  Oscar-winner  Walter 
Brennan,  debuts  on  ABC-TV,  October 
3.  .  .  .  Sally,  a  new  comedy  starring 
Joan  Caulfield  and  featuring  Marion 
Lome,  will  be  seen  on  NBC-TV,  Sep- 
tember 22.  .  .  .  The  Vic  Damone  Show 
premieres  July  3,  on  CBS-TV.  .  .  . 
Gisele  MacKenzie's  new  Saturday-night 
show  on  NBC-TV  will  debut  in  Sep- 
tember. .  .  .  Richard  Boone  of  Medic 
fame  -will  star  in  CBS-TV's  Have  Gun 


— Will  Travel,  to  be  seen  Saturday 
nights  at  9:30  this  fall.  This  series 
opens  up  a  host  of  other  shows.  For 
example,  one  built  around  a  writer, 
"Have  Typewriter — Will  Travel,"  and 
one  around  a  witch,  "Have  Broom — 
Will  Travel,"  ad  infinitum.  It's  too  bad 
Sid  Caesar  is  going  off — he'd  have  a 
ball  satirizing  this  one.  Speaking  of  Sid 
Caesar,  he  and  NBC  decided  to  call  it 
quits.  It's  a  sad  fact,  no  matter  how 
good  a  show  is,  if  it  doesn't  pay  off, 
it  goes  off.  It's  as  simple  as  ABC.  In 
fact,  that's  probably  where  Sid  will  be 
next  year— at  ABC-TV. 

Cinderella  Story:  Lovely  Coral  Rec- 
ord songstress  Erin  O'Brien,  23-year- 
old  newcomer  discovered  by  Steve 
Allen  in  his  night-time  audience,  won 
national  recognition  singing  on  Steve's 
show,  then  guested  once  with  George 
Gobel,  and  now  has  signed  a  contract 
with  Warner  Bros.  Erin's  dream  of  be- 
coming a  movie  star  has  come  true — all 
in  the  space  of  six  months!  Erin  has  a 
starring  role  in  Warners'  upcoming 
"Marjorie  Morningstar."  Best  described 
as  delicately  lovely,  Erin  will  play 
Karen  Blair,  the  amoral  gal  who  throws 
herself  at  "Morningstar's"  wonderfully 
nasty  villain,  Noel  Airman.  This  strik- 
ing contrast  will  make  exciting  view- 
ing. But  that's  the  way  Hollywood 
likes  to  do  things — excitingly. 


Champagne  tickles,  so  do  beards  of 
Welk's  Pete  Fountain,  George  Cates. 


For  What's  New  On  The  East  Coast,  See  Page  4 


THE  WEST  COAST 


Sink  or  Swim :  Charming  Dinah  Shore 
turned  her  TV  Radio  Mirror  gold  medal 
awards  into  a  necklace.  Often  a  winner, 
Dinah  realized  too  late  that  real  gold 
really  weighs!  Hubby  George  Mont- 
gomery said,  "Don't  fall  in  the  swim- 
ming pool,  honey  .  .  .  you'll  go 
straight  to  the  bottom!"  Dinah  will  be 
spending  the  summer  pounding  nails 
with  hubby  George  in  the  new  Trous- 
dale Estates  area  where  they  are  build- 
ing their  new  home.  Dinah  went  to  the 
private  screening  of  George's  newest 
picture,  "Black  Patch,"  and,  though  her 
own  show  has  been  getting  rave  re- 
views, she  was  more  thrilled  when  Jack 
Warner  of  Warner  Bros,  came  up  to  tell 
her  that  "Patch"  would  be  a  real  hit 
for  George.  If  they  can  find  some  way 
to  pin  a  romantic  ballad  to  the  ruggedly 
masculine  picture,  Dinah  will  sing  the 
background  score. 

Elvis  Episodes:  Girls  are  like  a  base- 
ball game,  or,  From  Tinker-to-Evers- 
to-Chance  Department:  Last  week,  El- 
vis Presley  dated  Yvonne  Lime,  Debbie 
Smith,  and  Pat  Mowry — in  that  order, 
but  in  fewer  days.  .  .  .  Has  the  full  story 
been  told  on  the  tooth-swallowing 
episode?  The  day  before  he  felt  the 
pain,  Elvis  was  doing  a  typical  Presley 
dance  routine  with  an  all-male  chorus 
(that's  a  switch)  and  it  created  enough 
excitement  at  the  studio  to  send  chore- 
ographer Michael  Kidd  and  dancer 
Gene  Kelly  gawking  to  the  soundstage. 
That's  when  Elvis  lost  the  tooth  cap. 
But  he  didn't  feel  any  pain.  That  came 


Her  TV  Radio  Mirror  gold  medals 
are  now  a  necklace  for  Dinah  Shore. 


next  day,  during  a  dramatic  scene  (no- 
body knows  whether  or  not  this  was  a 
love  scene,  or  whether  the  pain  was 
near  his  heart).  At  any  rate,  Elvis  had 
to  sit  still  for  a  bronchoscope — which 
kept  him  in  the  hospital  under  the  eyes 
of  a  half-dozen  pretty  nurses.  Some 
people  can't  win  for  losing.  .  .  .  Oh,  yes, 
Elvis  now  has  a  pet  wallaby,  which 
looks  like  a  live  kewpie  doll  but  packs 
the  kick  of  a  mule.  The  wallaby  hails 
from  Australia,  (Continued  on  page  15) 


Make  room  for  Daddy?  It  was  standing-room  only  when  Danny  Thomas  played 
the  Sands  night  club  in  Las  Vegas,  then  did  an  impromptu  show  for  the  overflow. 


Aren't  you  glad  you've  always 
been  so  careful  with  your  ap- 
pearance, especially  your  hair! 
Every  hair  is  in  place,  and  you 
know  it's  easiest  to  keep  that  way 
by  setting  and  securing  it  with 
Gayla  hold-bob  .  .  .  the  all-pur- 
pose bobby  pin  preferred  by 
more  women  over  all  others. 

At  first  glance,  bobby  pins  may 
look  alike,  but  women  know  that 
Gayla  hold-bob  with  Flexi-Grip 
is  the  leader  by  superior  perform- 
ance... holds  better,  has  the  right 
combination  of  strength  and  flexi- 
bility, and  is  easiest  to  use. 
Do  not  accept  ordinary  bobby 
pins— insist  on  Gayla  hold-bob. 


The  Cockatoos,  a  group  of  four  Royal  Navy  men,  provide  music  for  an  impromptu  skiffle  session  in  a  London  street. 


rHISKlFMBOYS 


ENGLAND  HOLLERS  UP  A  STORM 

By  LILLA  ANDERSON 


Skiffle    jumped    across    the    Atlantic 
as  Lonnie  Donegan  toured  the  States. 


Take  a  washtub,  a  washboard,  a 
couple  of  guitars,  a  few  writhing, 
uninhibited  young  men  belting  out 
songs  which  have  crossed  the  Atlantic 
at  least  twice — and  you  have  the  mak- 
ings for  a  new  teen-age  musical  craze 
which  has  created  a  storm  of  contro- 
versy in  England  and  which  is  begin- 
ning to  draw  enthralled  young  sup- 
porters in  the  United  States. 

It  is  called — no  one  quite  knows 
why — "skiffle."  The  small  combos  which 
set  the  kids  to  dancing  and  their  elders 
to  deprecating  are  called  "skiffle 
groups."  In  Britain  the  fad  has  spread, 
despite  strong  opposition,  from  sailors' 
pubs  along  the  Limehouse  docks  to  the 
stage  of  the  Palladium  and  the  studios 
of  the  independent  television  station. 
Young   members   of   the   nobility   who 


have  taken  it  up  are  considered  to  be 
sowing  their  wild  oats. 

In  America,  the  young  intellectuals 
of  New  York's  Greenwich  Village  claim 
it  as  their  own  private  discovery.  But 
it  is  spreading,  both  by  personal  and 
recorded  invasion.  That  skiffling  Scots- 
man, Lonnie  Donegan,  and  the  Charles 
McDevitt  skiffle  group  have  toured  the 
States.  The  records  of  Bob  Cort  and 
Dickie  Bishop  are  beginning  to  catch 
on.  Tommy  Steele,  whom  the  British 
consider  their  own  Elvis  Presley,  is 
contemplating  a  bow  to  America. 

To  define  skiffle  is  an  elusive  task.  It 
is  more  illuminating  to  tell  what  hap- 
pens. Ask  an  English  teenager  what 
skiffle  is  and  you'll  draw  that  "How 
square  can  you  get?"  look  which  is 
the  same  on  both  sides  of  the  Atlantic. 


Ask  an  oldster  and  .  .  .  well,  we  did. 

On  a  recent  trip  to  London,  I  had  a 
chance  to  tour  the  skiffle  clubs.  My 
partner  in  this  particular  bit  of  musical 
research  was  an  American  who  con- 
sidered himself  a  real  gassed  cat  when 
it  came  to  New  Orleans  blues,  progres- 
sive jazz  or  frantic  rock  'n'  roll. 

Said  my  companion,  ' T  know  they're 
in  the  Soho  area.  Let's  take  a  cab." 

To  find  skiffle  required  a  confer- 
ence at  the  end  of  the  journey,  for 
London  cabs  are  square-rigged  as  the 
late  Dowager  Queen  Mary's  hats.  A 
thick  plate-glass  panel  separates  chauf-, 
feur  from  passenger  and  no  chatty  non- 
sense is  allowed.  Not  until  the  cabbie 
set  us  down  at  a  Soho  curb  could  my 
escorting  hipster  inquire,  "Say,  Dad, 
which  joint  swings?" 

■the  cabbie  reacted  like  Colonel  Blimp. 
■  "I  doubt  if  I  understand,  sir,  but 
I  am  sure,  sir,  I  would  not  know,  sir." 

When  we  reached  Soho  a  young 
couple  was  crossing  the  street.  The 
question,  "Hey,  kids,  which  joint 
swings?"  brought  eager  directions.  "See 
that  second  sign— 'The  Two  IV?  That's 
the  most!" 

It  was  my  first  glimpse  of  a  "coffee 
bar,"  an  angular  edifice  resembling  an 
elderly  hamburger  joint.  Its  non-alco- 
holic counter  was  crowded  with  Teddy- 
boys  and  their  dolls.  The  boys'  broad- 
cloth suits,  cut  to  follow  Edwardian 
styles,  were  in  wild  shades  of  magenta, 
pale  blue,  mauve.  (A  kid  will  go  in 
hock  for  months  to  pay  for  having  one 
tailored.)  Youths  not  of  the  Teddy  cult 
wore  thick  sweaters  or  duffle  jackets. 
Their  girls  dressed  in  either  gray  flan- 
nel jumpers  and  black  stockings  or  in 
tight  toreador  pants. 

We  went  down  steep  cellar  stairs. 
At  least  two  hundred  kids  were 
packed,  foot-to-foot,  into  a  space  about 


Like   America's    Elvis,    Tommy   Steele 
gyrated    his   way   into   the   spotlight. 


twice  as  large  as  an  average  living 
room.  While  American  rock  'n'  roll 
grew  up  in  big  theater  shows,  English 
skiffle  gained  its  popularity  in  such 
"jazz  clubs." 

A  few  determined  couples  danced. 
Others  peered  through  the  smoke  to- 
ward the  podium  where  Charlie  Mc- 
Devitt  and  his  boys  were  whanging  out 
a  heavy  two-beat  on  guitars  and  bass. 
Listeners'  faces  were  tense  with  excite- 
ment. 

But  I'll  have  to  admit  ours  were  not. 
Said  my  escort,  "This  is  skiffle?" 

Said  I,  "This  is  where  I  came  in." 

And  indeed  it  was.  That  same  tune 
had  sent  me  when  I  was  a  kid  at  a 
Methodist  summer  camp  in  Wisconsin. 
Sitting  around  the  campfire,  we  would 
sing  something  like  97  verses  to  "I  Am 
Redeemed  by  the  Blood  of  the  Lamb." 
The  words  were  changed  to  "Hand  Me 
Down  My  Walkin'  Cane"  in  the  version 
which  came  over  the  hillbilly  radio 
stations  we  heard  in  western  Minnesota. 
Now  here  it  was  again  in  a  London 
cellar.  The  beat  and  the  phrasing  were 
identical. 

Skiffle  has  given  many  an  old  platter 
a  new  English  accent,  even  when  the 
singers  make  a  studied  attempt  to  copy 
American  intonations.  They  have 
picked  up  some  of  the  old  jazz  classics, 
but  they  also  have  concentrated  on 
some  styles  which  were  simply  dull  in 
the  beginning.  Many  of  their  numbers 
have  now  made  the  round  trip.  Orig- 
inally, they  were  English  ballads 
brought  here  by  early  settlers.  Hill- 
billy singers  turned  them  into  country  - 
and-Western  recordings.  The  young 
British  skifflers  have  again  made  them 
their  own. 

Skiffle,  in  Britain,  has  brought  some 
young  singers  the  same  prominence 
that  rock  'n'  roll  has  done  in  the  States. 
Lonnie  Donegan  is  one  of  the  top  pur- 
veyors of  the  American  sounds.  Born 
in  Glasgow,  he  was  reared  in  the  Cock- 
ney section  of  London.  Toting  his 
guitar  with  him,  he  found  his  way 
around  the  neighborhood  jazz  clubs 
where  the  kids  play  for  Cokes  and 
coffee.  When  "Rock  Island  Line"  was 
issued,  he  became  the  first  jazz  singer 
to  hit  the  British  best-seller  lists.  His 
record  also  caught  on  in  the  United 
States.  American  fans  of  this  English 
hillbilly  got  a  look  at  him  this  spring 
when  he  brought  his  skiffle  group  over 
and  toured  with  the  Harlem  Globe- 
trotters basketball  team,  entertaining 
between  halves.  He  never  quite  El- 
vised  the  kids,  but  an  impressive  num- 
ber of  teens  did  squeal  their  delight. 

Bob  Cort  was  first  heard  by  a  talent 
scout  attending  a  "jazz  barbecue"  in 
London  and  was  asked  to  record  on 
the  London  label.  In  his  band  are 
three  guitars,  a  bass  and  a  washboard. 
He  met  his  wife  at  a  coffee  bar  in 
Knightsbridge  and  grew  his  beard  at 
her  request.  His  two  top  tunes  are 
"Don't  You  Rock  Me  Daddy-O"  and 
"It  Takes  a  Worried  Man  to  Sing  a 
Worried  Blues."  Newly  released  are 
"Freight  Train"  and  "Roll  Jen  Jenkins." 

Tommy  Steele,  in  England,  is  con- 
sidered to  be  more  rock  'n'  roll  than 
skiffle.  He  is  a  quiet,  ordinary  London 
lad  who  burst  into  the  spotlight  with 


Bearded  Bob  Cort  set  a  new  London 
fire  at  the  Prince  of  Wales  Theater. 

the  same  jet  propulsion  exhibited  here 
by  that  quiet,  ordinary  Memphis  lad 
called  Presley. 

Mrs  take-off  point  was  another  of  those 
coffee  bars.  The  owner  asked  him 
to  sing  a  few  rock  'n'  roll  numbers 
and  the  customers  started  to  dance. 
The  kid  who  had  been  a  twenty-dollar-  . 
a-week  bellhop  on  a  ship  running  be- 
tween New  York  and  Bermuda  sud- 
denly became  England's  flash  hit.  Last 
spring,  he  starred  in  a  biographical 
movie,  "The  Tommy  Steele  Story."  In 
the  States,  his  new  recording  of  "But- 
terfingers"  and  "Teen-Age  Party"  is 
catching  on.  Whether  he  follows  it  with 
a  personal  appearance  tour  may  de- 
pend on  the  state  of  his  health.  He 
was  rejected  for  the  draft  because  of 
a  heart  condition.  Some  fans  think  he 
should  not  be  permitted  to  continue  his 
energy -consuming  stage  gyrations,  but 
Tommy  has  gone  right  on  rocking  and 
rolling. 

Skiffle,  with  its  strong  stimulus  to- 
ward American  ways,  draws  some  sharp 
criticism  from  traditionalists.  They 
often  voice  their  protests  in  letters  to 
the  editors  of  the  tabloid  newspapers. 

It  would  comfort  the  writers,  I  be- 
lieve, if  they  could  pay  a  visit  to  New 
York's  Washington  Square  on  a  Sun- 
day afternoon.  In  this  historic  park, 
there  is  a  decommissioned  fountain.  Its 
foundation  becomes  a  bowl  in  which 
students  and  the  talented  young  en- 
tertainers from  Greenwich  Village 
gather.  Singers  surround  instrumental 
groups.  On  a  recent  Sunday,  I  counted 
twelve  guitars,  three  basses  and  seven 
washtubs.  The  washtubs  carry  a  sort 
of  mast — usually  a  broomstick — to 
which  is  attached  a  single  string.  The 
string  is  plucked  at  the  same  time  the 
rhythm  is  beat  out  by  the  foot  on  the 
bottom  of  the  tub. 

Most  of  the  girls  wore  gray  jumpers 
and  black  stockings.   Many  of  the  boys 
had  bulky  sweaters  and  duffle  jackets. 
You     couldn't     tell     from     the     attire 
whether     you     were     in     Washington 
Square     or     Trafalgar     Square.      The    T 
sound,  too,  was  the  same.   Their  favor-    v 
ite  song  was  "It  Takes  a  Worried  Man    R 
to  Sing  a  Worried  Blues." 

Skiffle  has  again  jnmrtpd  the  Atlantic. 


TEMPEST  AT  A  TURNTABLE 


10 


Jerry    Lewis    apparently    loved    the    Faye    treatment, 
came  out  unscathed   after  over  an   hour  with    Marty. 


According  to  WAAF's  outspoken  deejay,  Marty 
Faye,  broadcasting  can  only  stand  to  benefit  from 
a  good  dose  of  "obnoxious  irritation."     Marty, 
alternately  loved  and  hated  by  his  audiences,   has 
long  been  a  master  of  the  hard  sell  and  frantic 
harangue.     But,  by  a  sort  of  "reverse  psychology," 
his  heckling  of  Chicago  airwaves  has  paid  off.  .  .  . 
Each  Monday  through  Friday  from  noon  to  2  P.M., 
Marty  gives  the  new  releases  a  turn,  then  slays 
'em  with  a  caustic  dig  or  two,  and  "buries"  'em  in 
"Marty's  Morgue."   Then,  last  year's  "sacred  cows" 
of  pop  music  get  a  going-over.  But  there's  never 
any  ill  will  behind  the  barbed-wire  wit,  and  many 
top  stars  appreciate  the  fact  that  a  rap  on  the 
Marty  Faye  Show  amounts  to  stirring  up  a  hurri- 
cane in  record  sales  in  the  Windy  City.  .  .  . 
Brooklyn-born  Marty  didn't  come  by  his  theatrical 
instincts  by  accident.    Nature  planned  it  that  way, 
giving  him  a  sister,  Frances  Faye,   a  well-known 
night-club  and  recording  star,  and  a  cousin,  Danny 
Kaye.    Via  the  circuitous  route  of  law  school  and  a 
summer  "pitch"  job  in  Atlantic  City,  he  found 
himself  in  front  of  a  TV  camera  with  "a  fire  burning 
inside  ...  I  could  have  sold  horses  to  an  auto- 
mobile  dealer."     Of  a   cross-country   tour   of  TV 
stations,  Marty  recalls,  "They  hated  me  in  New  York, 
they  hated  me  in  Birmingham,  they  hated  me  in 
Atlanta  .   .   .  but,  they   listened."    ...   In   Chicago, 
appearing  up  to  70  times  weekly,  Marty  was  the 
man  who'd  pop  up  with  his  plug  just  when  the 
matinee  movie  reached  its  climax.     Kids  would  ask 
him  on  the  street,  "Hey,  aren't  you  the  guy  who 
ruins  all  the  movies?" — to  which  Faye  would  reply, 
faking   a   glower,    "Yeah,   that's   me.     The   name's 
Marty  Faye.  Don't  forget  it."  He  still  haunts  the 
movie    viewers — chases    WBKB-TVs     Sunday     to 
Thursday  Late  Show  with  forty  minutes  (ll:20-mid- 
night)  of  inimitable  heartburn,  and  no  one  forgets. 
Once,  at  Soldiers'  Field,  60,000  rose  up  in  a  body  to 
pitch  pop   bottles,   peanuts,   everything,   as   Marty 
rode  by.    As  he  tells  it,  "Brother,  I  had  arrived."  .  .  . 
When  Marty  arrives  home  at  his  North  Side  apart- 
ment, he  throws  in  the  sponge  for  the  day  and  enjoys 
a  huge  record  collection  on  hi-fi  with  wife  Vivian. 
Despite    a    heart-rending    plea    from    four-year-old 
daughter  Sydney  Fran — "Daddy,  don't  be  so  mean 
to  Elvis  Presley,  the  kids  at  nursery   school  won't 
like  me  any  more" — Marty  knows  his  own  infamous 
style  fills  a  real  need  in  broadcasting.    Like  his  mail 
pull,  which  runs  the  gamut  from  love  letters  to 
threats  on  his  life,  radio  should  be  willing  to  be  a 
little  schizophrenic.     Too  much  of  the  "soft  sell," 
the  relaxed  charm,  he  feels,  can  put  listeners  to  sleep. 
To  WAAF  listeners,  Marty  Faye's  no  soporific. 


When  they  sent  threatening  letters 

and  started  throwing  things, 

WAAF's  Marty  Faye  figured  he'd  arrived! 


Columbia's  Four  Lads  and  bearded  Mitch  Miller  reciprocate 
Marty's   "burial"   of  their  discs   by  surprise   birthday   cake. 


Sydney  tries  to  reconcile  Dad  and  nursery  schoolers  on 
Elvis  issue.  Wife  Vivian  keeps  clear  of  the  "dispute." 


^™ 


New  Patterns 
for  You 


9067 — Smart  sun-tops  designed  to  slim  the 
larger  figure.  Printed  Pattern  in  Women's 
Sizes  36-50.  Size  36  square-neck  or  collar 
style,  each  1%  yards  35-inch  fabric.  State 
size.  350 

4659 — Simple,  slimming  lines  proportioned 
for  half-sizers.  A  cinch  to  sew  with  our 
Printed  Pattern.  Half  Sizes  141/2-241/2-  Size 
16%  takes  3%  yards  35-inch  fabric.  State 
size.   35<S 

4792 — Graceful  empire-princess  fashion 
with  smooth,  fitted  and  flaring  silhouette. 
Little  button-front  bolero  completes  the 
ensemble.  Printed  Pattern  in  Misses'  Sizes 
10-20.  Size  16  dress  and  bolero  take  4 
yards  39-inch  fabric.    State  size.  35(S 


SIZES 
0  —  20 


Send  thirty-five  cents  (in  coin)  for  each  pattern  to:  TV  Radio  Mirror,  Pattern  Depart- 
ment, P.O.  Box  137,  Old  Chelsea  Station,  New  York  11,  New  York.  Add  five  cents  for 
each    pattern    for    first-class    mailing.     Be    sure    to    specify    pattern    number    and     size. 


When  even  your  home  and  children 
make  you  upset . . . 


let 
MILES 

NERVINE 

help 

you  relax!      vfWM 


Busy  mothers 
occasionally  find  it 
hard  to  ease  up  and  relax 
after  a  crowded,  hectic 
day.  That's  why  so  many 
of  them  get  help  from 

MILES   NERVINE.    With    its 

mild,  but  effective  action, 
miles  nervine  helps  relieve 
such  nervous  tension  so 
that  you  can  relax,  be  calm  and 
serene,  to  feel  your  best  again. 

Take  miles  nervine,  also, 
when  too  restless  to  sleep  at 
night.  It  simply  relaxes  you, 
lets  you  sleep — naturally.  Follow 
the  label — avoid  excessive  use. 
Miles  nervine  has  a  long  record 
of  satisfaction  in  use.  Sold  in 
effervescent  tablets  and  liquid. 

Soothe  nerves  . 
[  feel  calm  and  serene  with 

■mfNERVINE 

At  any  drugstore . . 

No  Prescription  Needed! 

Miles  Laboratories,  Inc.,  Elkhart,  Ind. 


11 


When  the  music  stops,  Bob  still  leads  a  double  life,  as  escort 
for  wife  Patricia  and  pal  and  teammate  for  elder  son  Douglas. 


Bob  Maxwell  is  a  hired  musical 

hand  on  WWJ — but  he's 

proprietor  of  his  own  competition 


HE'S 


12 


When  ebullient  Bob  Maxwell  acquired  his  own 
radio  station  in  April,  he  found  himself  playing 
both  ends  against  a  musical  middle.  Bob  is  on  the 
payroll  of  Detroit's  Station  WWJ  as  a  deejay.  He  runs  a 
dawn  patrol  of  "music  with  a  melody,"  each  Monday 
through  Saturday  from  6  to  9  A.M.,  and  presides  over 
Music  Over  The  Weekend,  each  Saturday  from  1  to 
3:30  P.M.  He's  seen  on  TV  with  the  Meet  The  Press 
commercials  and  is  heard  coast-to-coast  as  a  guest 
communicator  on  NBC's  Monitor.  Then,  on  April  Fool's 
Day,  1957,  he  got  down  to  the  serious  business  of  opening 
his  own  Station  WBRB  in  suburban  Mt.  Clemens.  As  the 
station's  program  director,  Bob  finds  himself  in  the  odd 
position  of  employing  deejays  to  go  on  opposite  his  own 
programs  on  WWJ  ....  Born  June  26,  1924,  in  the  little 
town  of  Custer,  Tennessee,  where  his  family  were 
sharecroppers,  Bob  was  brought  to  Detroit  when  he  was 
five.  When  his  mother  became  fatally  ill  of  tuberculosis, 
Bob  spent  two  years  in  an  orphanage,  where  he  occupied 
himself  by  staging  variety  shows.  He  was  spotted  by 
an  advertising  executive  who  offered  to  use  him  on  the 
dramatized  commercials  for  the  Ford  Sunday  evening 
hour.  The  pay  was  good  and  so,  at  the  ripe  old  age  of 
eleven,  Bob  decided  to  go  into  radio  and  also  to  study 


medicine.  He  appeared  on  such  Detroit-produced  shows 
as  Lone  Ranger  and  Green  Hornet,  switched  to  deejaying 
in  1940,  running  an  all-night  show  on  WEXL  in  Royal 
Oak  and  attending  high  school  by  day.  He  had  just 
begun  college  and  a  pre-medical  course  when  war 
came  and  he  enlisted  in  the  Navy,  serving  as  a  medic. 
He  returned  to  college  after  the  war,  but  radio  and  TV 
commitments  prevented  him  from  graduating  ....  Bob 
now  has  two  sons — Douglas,  11,  and  Bob,  Jr.,  3 — and  he 
hopes  that  one  of  them  will  realize  his  doctoring  dreams. 
Bob  and  his  wife  Patricia  love  to  entertain  at  their 
suburban  Birmingham  home,  colonial  in  design,  con- 
temporary in  decor.  Bob  collects  books,  mostly  science- 
fiction,  and  postage  stamps,  including  many  of  Con- 
federate vintage  in  honor  of  his  distant  relative,  Col. 
Breckenridge,  Confederate  Secretary  of  War.  At  Pa- 
tricia's request,  Bob  sold  his  racing  cars,  but  he  still 
owns  a  restored  1918  Maxwell  (!)  touring  sedan.  Bob 
also  owns  a  collie  named  Amber,  a  private  pilot's  license, 
and  a  half- interest  in  Bluefield  Farms,  418  acres  in 
Kentucky  devoted  to  raising  thoroughbred  horses.  He'd 
like  to  retire  there  some  day.  But  it's  a  distant  future 
that  will  find  Detroiters  singing  the  blues  because  Bob 
Maxwell  has   retired   to   the   land   of   the   blue   grass. 


INFORMATION    BOOTH 


Oklahoma  Kids 

Could  you  please  give  me  some  informa- 
tion on  The  Collins  Kids,  ivho're  seen  fre- 
quently on  TV?  D.  S.,  Boston,  Mass. 

That  two  kids  are  better  than  one,  most 
people  will  admit.  That  two  Collins  Kids 
are  "the  best"  in  their  field  is  incontesta- 
ble. The  eldest,  Lorrie  (short  for  Lawren- 
cine ) .  is  almost  15,  with  a  voice  now  under 
exclusive  contract  to  Columbia  Records. 
Larry,  13,  takes  over  the  harmony  vocals, 
dances  a  bit  and  handles  the  large  double- 
necked  guitar  like  the  country-music  vet- 
eran he  is.  .  .  .  The  Kids'  dad  is  an  aircraft 
worker  and  their  mother,  though  she  plays 
at  the  piano,  never  aimed  for  a  show-busi- 
ness career.  But  Larry  and  Lorrie  har- 
monized almost  before  they  could  read  or 
write  the  name  of  their  home  town  of 
Tulsa,  Oklahoma.  Too  busy  to  stop  for  a 
music  lesson,  the  Collins  Kids  have  been 
on  KTTV-Los  Angeles'  Town  Hall  Party 
and  heard  on  the  NBC  Radio  network  pro- 
gram of  the  same  name.  Other  appear- 
ances as  guests  on  the  CBS  Jack  Carson 
Show  and  Bob  Crosby  Show  and  ABC- 
TV's  Ozark  Jubilee  were  followed  by 
movie  roles  for  the  Kids  at  Universal-In- 
ternational. .  .  .  When  they  aren't  busy 
televising  or  recording  such  country  hits 
as  "Hush  Money"  or  "The  Rockaway 
Rock,"  the  Kids  attend  Hollywood's  Pro- 
fessional Children's  School,  where  Lorrie 
will  be  a  sophomore  this  fall  and  Larry  an 
eighth-grader.  Larry  says  he  likes  school 
"'all  right,"  but  prefers  driving  his  midget 
auto  or  going  swimming  or  rabbit  hunting. 

Free-Lance  Lancer 

Would  you  please  give  me  some  in- 
formation about  Warren  Stevens  on  77th 
Bengal  Lancers?  C.  Y.,  Keiser,  Pa. 

Scranton-born  Warren  Stevens — Lt. 
Storm  on  the  NBC-TV  Lancers  series — got 
his  start  in  the  entertainment  world  as  a 


musician.  Then,  during  high-school  years, 
he  found  himself  becoming  more  and  more 
attracted  to  acting.  Afraid  to  admit  it  to 
his  family,  who  might  have  considered  it  a 
mere  "boyish  infatuation,"  he  enlisted  in 
the  Navy  and  made  Annapolis,  instead. 
But  only  for  a  while.  Warren  met  a  certain 
Bob  Porterfield,  who  owned  the  famous 
Barter  Theater  in  Virginia,  and  decided  to 
leave  Annapolis  for  the  part  of  the  young- 
er brother  in  "Family  Portrait."  After  that, 
it  was  a  sprightly  hop  and  skip  to  scholar- 
ship studies  with  Martha  Graham,  Sanford 
Meisner  and  Lehman  Engel  at  Neighbor- 
hood Playhouse,  and  only  a  jump  into  the 
"blue  yonder"  of  the  Air  Corps.  . . .  An  Elia 
Kazan  production  was  the  turning  point  in 
his  career.  Though  termed  "a  flop"  by  the 
critics,  the  play  turned  up  several  movie 
offers  for  the  handsome,  five-foot-ten  actor. 
Broadway  also  took  notice,  and  Warren 
landed  "hit"  material  in  "Detective  Story" 
with  Ralph  Bellamy.  .  .  .  Since  signing 
with  20th  Century-Fox  in  1950,  he  has 
been  in  15  motion  pictures  and  innumera- 
ble TV  dramas.  Now  a  free-lance  Lancer, 
Warren  lives  with  his  wife,  the  former 
Lydia  Minevitch,  in  the  hills  above  Holly- 
wood. He  has  a  son,  Larry,  12,  by  a  previ- 
ous marriage. 

Shavian   Pin-up 

/  would  like  some  information  on  Joi 
Lansing,  one  of  the  models  on  the  CBS-TV 
Bob  Cummings  Show.  C.  S.,  Throop,  Pa. 

Joi  Lansing,  a  shapely  blond  pin-up 
type,  has  been  studying  her  Ibsen  and 
Shaw  since  high-school  days.  Complains 
Joi,  "People  don't  believe  I  really  want  to 
be  a  dramatic  actress.  If  you  look  sexy, 
they  give  you  sexy  parts."  .  .  .  Born  Joy 
Loveland,  Joi  arrived  in  Hollywood  via 
Salt  Lake  City  and  Ogden,  Utah.  As  a 
Mormon,  she  neither  drinks  nor  smokes. 
After  high-school  graduation,  there  was  a 
considerable  period  devoted  to  serious 
reading,  followed  by  a  world  junket — "to 


Warren  Stevens 


Larry  and  Lawrencine  Collins 


Joi  Lansing- 


get  experience" — playing  the  Air  Force 
bases.  In  Hollywood,  she  hopes  her  first 
starring  picture,  "The  Brave  One,"  will 
lead  to  others.  Meanwhile,  she's  in  continu- 
ous demand  for  TV  dramas  and  has  also 
appeared  regularly  on  the  Bob  Cummings 
Show  as  the  photographer's  model.  TV  is 
"hard  work,"  according  to  Joi.  "But,  if 
you  work  hard  at  anything  you  want, 
you're  bound  to  be  a  success  at  it." 

Calling  All  Fans 

The  following  fan  clubs  invite  new 
members.  If  you  are  interested,  write  to 
address  given — not  to  TV  Radio  Mirror. 

Pat  Boone  Fan  Club,  c/o  Joan  Gainer, 
913  N.  York  Rd.,  Willow  Grove,  Pa. 

Bill  Haley  and  His  Comets,  c/o  Claire 
Neveu,  201  Grove  Street,  Woonsocket,  R.  I. 

Allan  Copeland  Fan  Club,  c/o  Irma  Al- 
ber,  1600  Broadway,  Watervliet,  N.  Y. 


FOR   YOUR  INFORMATION— If  there's 
something  you  want  to  know  about  radio 
and  television,  write  to  Information  Booth, 
TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East  42nd  St.,  New 
York  17,  N.   Y.  We'll  answer,  If  we  can, 
provided  your  question  is  of  general,  inter- 
est. Answers  will  appear  in  this  column — -    T 
but   be   sure   to   attach   this   box   to   your    v 
letter,    and    specify    whether    it    concerns    B 
radio  or  TV.  Sorry,  no  personal  answers. 
13 


14 


Voice-wise,  it's  a  who's  who,  as  expert  mimic  Bill  Ben- 
nett talks  to  ex-"Fat  Jack"   E.   Leonard   before  show. 


The  legal  definition  of  "mayhem"  reads  threaten- 
ingly, to  say  the  least.  Bill  Bennett  could  never  be 
accused  of  "a  willful  and  violent  affliction  of  bodily 
harm  in  order  to  annoy  an  adversary."    Simple!    He 
has  no  adversaries.  When  "Brother  Bill"  signs  on-air 
at  6  A.M.  for  a  three-hour  deejay  stint,  and  again 
at  11  for  Mayhem  In  The  Ayem,  even  the  birds  in  the 
Twin  Cities  of  Minneapolis-St.  Paul  tune  in  to 
WDGY.   The  proof  is  in  the  writing:    "Dear  Mr. 
Bennett,"  one  note  reads.  "Enclosed  is  a  picture  of  our 
parakeet,  Pixie.  As  you  can  see,  he's  listening  to  the 
radio  and  it  happens  to  be  your  program,  too."  To 
which  Bill  grins,  "Proof?  This  just  goes  to  prove 
my  show  is  really  'for  the  birds.'  "...  One  of  the 
most  likeable  in  the  radio  business,  the  versatile  young 
emcee  and  entertainer  was  brought  to  WDGY  by 
Todd  Storz,  who  recognized  a  find  for  his  new  station. 
Bill  was  largely  responsible  for  jumping  the  station's 
ratings  from  a  rocky  "low"  to  "number  one 
independent"  for  the  area.    Adored  by  teenagers, 
hounded  by  gag  fans,  besieged  by  phone  calls, 
there's  a  perpetual  smile  on  the  boyish  face  and  a 
joke  is  ready  for  any  occasion.  .  .  .  And  this,  in 
spite  of  a  staggering  schedule.    Besides  the  two 
morning  shows,  he  emcees  Saturday  nights  at  the  Prom 
Ballroom,  sharing  billing  with  top  stars.    During 
the  week,  Bill's  out  on  the  road  for  his  "favorite 
extracurricular,"  one-night  stands  of  emceeing,  singing 
and  mimicking.  Paying  attention  to  teenagers' 
extracurriculars,    too,    he    recently    started    a    teen- 
interest  column  circulating  in  130  school  papers  in 
the  area.  .  .  .  Come  Sunday  and  Bill  folds  his  tent 
and  "steals  away"  home.  But  the  comedy  sneaks  in  by 
the  back  door,  according  to  his  lovely  wife  Jo. 
Sundays  tempt  Bill  to  work  on  his  teen-slated  magic 
and  clown  routines.  .  .  .  Not  so  many  years  ago, 
teenager  Bill,  "most  popular  boy"  in  his  class,  stopped 
short  of  nothing  to  entertain  and  make  people  laugh. 
At  the  time  of  his  class  play,  when  he  fell  off  the 
stage  and  landed  in  the  pit,  his  sole  commentary  went, 
"It  was  getting  pretty  dull  around  there."  .  .  . 
Bill's  first  break  followed  soon  after  a  young  station 
manager  took  a  look  at  Bill  and  "suggested,"  in  his 
most  V.I.P.  manner,  "Boy,  you'll  never  make  it  as 
a  radio  personality.  Let's  try  you  in  sales."    So, 
it  was  sales  for  two  years,  till  he  sold  himself  as  a 
deejay.  Radio  audiences  have  been  buying  Brother 
Bill's  airwaves'  stock-in-trade  ever  since. 


OH,  BROTHER! 

WDGTs  "Brother  Bill"  Bennett 
just  slays  'era  in  the  ayem 


Bill,   second  from   right,   shines   along   with  The  Three 
Suns,   typical    bright   guest   stars   on    his   ayem    show. 


Kuldip   Singh,   at   left,    of   Groucho   fame,    is   emceed 
by  Bill,   who's   busy  with   a    "favorite  extracurricular." 


What's  New  on  the  West  Coast 


(Continued  from  page  7) 


now  spends  the  afternoon  sunning  itself 
on  Elvis'  M-G-M  patio,  doesn't  like  to  go 
back  into  its  cage  at  night,  has  a  glossy 
gray-brown  coat  of  fur  which  is  made  to 
gleam  on  a  diet  of  apples  (hand  fed),  sits 
up  like  a  squirrel  to  eat,  hops  like  a  kan- 
garoo, and  is  named  "Wallaby."  Rumor 
has  it  that  it  was  this  pint-sized  pet  that 
knocked  out  Presley's  tooth,  but  he's  too 
embarrassed  to  admit  it. 

Beards  'n'  Boots:  If  you  think  you  are 
seeing  a  younger  version  of  the  Smith 
Brothers  walking  down  Hollywood  Boule- 
vard, it's  probably  Lawrence  Welk's  ar- 
ranger, George  Cates,  and  Welk's  newly 
signed  clarinetist,  Pete  Fountain.  Both 
sport  goatees.  Cates,  musical  supervisor  of 
Welk's  shows,  grew  his  beard  during  an 
illness,  vowed  he  wouldn't  shave  until  he 
was  well  again,  and  then  never  shaved  it 
off  at  all.  Twenty-six-year-old  Pete  Foun- 
tain grew  his  beard  on  a  dare,  while  play- 
ing jazz  in  New  Orleans  over  the  past  five 
years.  .  .  .  The  moment  Betty  White  was  to 
meet  ABC-TV  president,  Leonard  Gold- 
enson,  and  introduce  her  new  show,  Date 
With  The  Angels,  on  a  coast-to-coast 
closed-circuit  hook-up,  the  heel  of  her  shoe 
broke.  It  just  so  happened  that  Alice  Lon 
was  present,  and  wearing  the  same  shade 
of  blue  dress  and  matching  shoes  as  Betty. 
More  coincidentally,  they  both  have  the 
same  Cinderella-size  foot,  5A.  After  the 
show,  Betty  pointed  to  the  lovely  Alice, 
sitting  barefoot  beside  the  president. 


Incidental  Intelligence:  Cheyenne's  Clint 
Walker  added  a  covered  wagon  to  his  new 
Vespa  motor  scooter,  now  takes  his  seven- 
year-old  daughter  Valerie  with  him  while 
he  prospects  for  uranium.  Valerie  thought 
prospecting  a  bore  until  Clint,  knowing 
she  adored  him  as  "Cheyenne,"  got  out  of 
blue  jeans  and  changed  into  his  TV  cos- 
tume. .  .  .  Yvonne  DeCarlo,  who  has  a  De- 
cember date  with  the  stork,  has  blueprinted 
plans  for  a  new  TV  series  next  season  in 
which  she'll  star  as  a  femme  Robin  Hood. 
.  .  .  Cedric  Hardwicke — and  he  likes  being 
called  "Mister,"  not  "Sir" — celebrated  his 
forty-fifth  year  as  an  actor  while  rehearsing 
a  role  in  Climax!  The  three-layer  cake,  in- 
scribed "An  Actor's  Actor,"  was  presented 
by  Michael  Rennie.  .  .  .  They  had  to  make 
room  for  daddy,  Danny  Thomas,  when  he 
played  the  Sands  night  club  in  Las  Vegas. 
It  was  S.R.O.  inside,  so  Danny  did  an  im- 
promptu show  for  the  people  outside  who 
couldn't  get  past  the  velvet  rope.  .  .  . 
Jeanne  Cagney's  daughter,  Mary  Ann,  is 
celebrating  her  second  birthday.  .  .  .  Did 
you  know  that  Spike  Jones  once  beat  the 
drums  in  a  recording  band  for  Bing  Cros- 
by? "It  was  a  nice  steady  job,"  says  Spike, 
"but  I  kept  falling  asleep."  .  .  .  Gale 
Storm's  "Dark  Moon"  has  passed  Bonny 
Guitar's  original  version  of  the  same  song 
and  gone  well  over  the  million  mark.  (Both 
are  on  a  Dot  label.)  Another  record  set  by 
Gale:  Both  her  sponsors,  Nestle  Co.  and 
Helene  Curtis,  have  just  signed  her  Oh! 
Susanna  for  ninety-one  consecutive  weeks. 


What's  New  on  the  East  Coast 


(Continued  from  page  5) 


Connecticut.  Says  he,  "I  got  a  brook  and 
I  will  put  my  feet  in  the  water  and  fish 
and  count  my  money."  Ken  Carson  will 
get  in  two  weeks  of  Florida  golf  and  then 
make  personal  appearances  at  state  fairs. 
Denise  Lor  stands  on  a  woman's  preroga- 
tive and  remains  undecided.  Garry,  him- 
self, is  in  a  rut,  or  is  it  a  trough?  He  will 
cruise  off  New  England  with  the  family. 
.  .  .  There's  Moore  of  Garry's  favorite 
horn-man,  Wild  Bill  Davison,  in  Columbia 
album,  "With  Strings  Attached." 

Backstage  Drama:  One  serial  star  was 
undergoing  the  worst  kind  of  anguish  this 
season  and  being  very  mum  about  it. 
Melba  Rae,  who  is  Marge  in  Search  For 
Tomorrow,  was  looking  forward  to  the 
most  exciting  event  of  her  life,  her  first 
child.  With  artist-husband  Gil  Shawn,  she 
shared  such  enthusiasm  that  they  talked 
about  little  else.  Early  spring,  they  moved 
from  a  small,  charming  Greenwich  Village 
flat  to  a  large  apartment  on  Riverside 
Drive.  Suddenly,  in  March,  Melba  was 
rushed  to  the  hospital  and  gave  birth  to 
premature  twins.  ("I'd  been  X-rayed,  but 
there  had  been  no  sign  of  twins.")  The 
baby  girl  weighed  two  pounds  and  eight 
ounces.  The  boy  weighed  two  and  six. 
("We  were  warned  to  wait  twenty-four 
hours  before  we  told  anyone  outside  of 
her  parents.")  Twenty  hours  later,  the 
girl  died.  The  boy  went  into  an  incubator 
at  Premature  Center  in  the  New  York 
Hospital.  Melba  was  told  she  could  not 
take  the  baby  home  until  he  reached  five 
pounds,  and  Gil  was  told  not  to  give  out 
any  cigars  until  baby  came  home.  They 
had  a  live  son,  but  its  life  was  not  a  cer- 
tain thing.  At  one  point,  the  baby  dropped 
down  to  two  pounds,  but  then  began  to 
gain  steadily.     On  Mother's  D^v.  he  was 


five  pounds  and  four  ounces  and  Melba 
took  him  home.  "He's  good  and  lovable," 
says  Melba.  "He  has  auburn  hair  and 
enormous  blue  eyes.  We  call  him  Eric 
Henry.  Eric  after  my  grandfather  and 
Henry  after  Gil's  father."  The  Monday 
after  the  baby  got  home,  Gil  went  down 
to  his  office  loaded  with  candy  and  cigars. 

Bloody  or  Dead:  Big  Story  cancelled  end 
of  this  summer.  West  Point  and  Bucca- 
neers  axed,  too.  Robert  Montgomery  Pre- 
sents will  definitely  not  return  in  fall. 
Also  death  rattle  for  Ford  Theater.  ...  Of 
course,  there  are  happy  sponsors.  Kraft 
celebrated  its  tenth  year  and  Godfrey  is 
up  to  his  eyeballs  in  teaballs.  It  was  July 
25,  1947,  that  Lipton  first  sponsored  Old 
Ironsides.  And  then,  Oh!  Susanna  and 
Person  To  Person  have  had  renewals  and 
The  Lone  Ranger  will  ride  again.  Gisele 
MacKenzie,  who  debuts  her  show  in  the 
fall,  has  been  fully  sponsored  since  spring. 
So  things  are  never  so  bad  as  they  seem, 
and  anyway,  like  army  generals,  TV  shows 
don't  die,  they  just  fade  away.  There's  the 
Durante  show,  off  TV  almost  two  years. 
It's  back  again  this  summer,  replacing 
Gleason,  who  was  recently  axed  but  who 
will  likely  replace  Steve  Allen  in  1959. 
And  see  if  you  can  follow  this  one:  The 
Champions  replaced  Private  Secretary, 
which  in  turn  replaced  The  Brothers. 
Private  Secretary  has  now  been  replaced 
by  My  Favorite  Husband.  Joan  Caulfield, 
once  star  of  My  Favorite  Husband,  re- 
turns this  fall  in  a  new  filmed  comedy 
series,  Sally,  co-starring  Marion  Lome, 
on  NBC-TV  Sundays  at  7:30.  Marion 
Lome  gained  TV  fame  in  this  same  time 
slot  when  it  was  occupied  by  Mr.  Peepers, 
which  was  replaced  by  Circus  Boy,  which 
moves  to  ABC  and  replaces  .  .  .  etcetera. 


C.  L.  Evans,  Pres.  of  New  England  Art  Publishers,  Says: 

Make  *50-*75- '100 

Again  and  Again  In  Spare  Time 


SHOW   FRIENDS 

^  NEW  STYLE 

Christmas  and  All  Occasion 

GREETING  CARD^ 

ASSORTMENTS  f 

folks  are  wild  about  , 


New  1957 

ASSORTMENT 

OF  21  DELUXE 

CHRISTMAS  CARDS 

Sparkles,  Snow  Sheen, 

24"  Novelty  Card, 
Sculptured  Embossing 


New  1957 

4-STYLE  CHRISTMAS 

ASSORTMENT    OF 

24  Cards  in  Rich  Slims, 

Squares,  Oblongs  and 
Petite  Cards  all  in  1  box 


179  Easy  Ways  To  Make 

EXTRA  MONEY 


New  1957 

GOLD  'N  GLITTER 

CHRISTMAS 

Assortment  of 

Slim  Cards  with 


New  1957 

ALL   OCCASION 

ASSORTMENT 


New  19S7  Slim 

PARCHMENT 

CHRISTMAS 

Assortment  of 

21  Modern  Style 


.    Guaranteed  by 

Jewel-like  Sparkle  V  Good  Housekeeping  J   Cards  of  Beauty 

"&,., ,..*&*. 


■JQpr    64  Name  Imprinted  SAMPLES 
RCE    just  for  writing  us  at  once! 


AMAZING   VALUES  ATTRACT  ALL 

Take  easy  orders  from  neighbors,  co-workers.  Show 
brand  new  ideas  in  fascinating  greeting  card  boxed 
assortments,  gift  wrappings,  gift  ribbons,  home  and 
gift  items.  Profits  to  100%  plus  liberal  Cash  Bonus.  No 
experience  needed.  Build  your  income  with  exclusive 
50  for  $1.50  up  Personal  Christmas  Cards.  Bargain 
Surprise  Packages,  individual  "Giant  Value"  greeting 
cards.  Make  extra  dollars  pleasantly! 


NEW  FUND  RAISING  and  PARTY  PLANS 
FREE  Full  Color  Illustrated  Catalog 


MAKE   FRIENDLY  SOCIAL   CALLS 

Show  women's,  children's,  men's  novelties.  Have  cash 
for  new  clothes,  furnishings,  your  group  treasury. 
No  experience  needed.   It's  easy — fun — profitable' 


Start  a  Greeting  Card  &  Gift  Shop  At  Home 
Make  up  to  $1  .00  per  box  ! 


ONE    MONEY    MAKER    SAYS 

"I  have  been  selling:  your  cards  for  almost  two  £ 
years  and   I  have  made  enough  money  to  buy 
a  lot  of  things  I  have  wanted." 

Diane  Carey  of  Illinois 


Write  today  for  FREE  TRIAL  of 
EVERYTHING  YOU  NEED  to  get  started 


SEND   NO   MONEY— ACT   NOW! 

Rush  your  name  and  address  for  Feature  box  assortments 
on  approval,  FREE  Money-Making  Guide  and  Special  offers. 
If  outfit  does  not  make  money  for  you  in  a  jiffy,  return  it 
at  our  expense— no  questions  asked!  You  have  nothing  to  lose 


SENSATIONAL    FREE    OFFER 

Saves  You  Money — Makes  Money 


SURPRISE!    SURPRISE! 

With    your    Outfit    will    come    all 

details   and    a    fabulous    offer   you 

cannot  afford  to  miss.  Write  tod  ay  I 

New    England    Art    Publishers 

North  Abington  821,   Mass. 

p.. .Mail  Coupon  Now-a 

'    NEW  ENGLAND  ART  PUBLISHERS 
North  Abington  821,  Mass. 

Please  send  me  at  once  Feature 
assortments  on  approval,  Free 
Samples  Personal  Christmas  Cards, 
Stationery,  Free  Catalog,  Selling 
Guide,  details  of  your  wonderful 
Extra  Money  Plan  and  your  amazing  FREE   OFFER. 

Name- 


f~l     Check  here  if  writing  for  club  or  church 
organization  interested  in  raising  funds. 

-------No  Risk  On  Your  Part.—...j 


15 


Even  in  July,  the  "North  Pole"  at 
the  Village  is  covered  with  frost. 


At  the  Enchanted  Castle,  Bill  and 
young  Robert  feed  the  black  swan. 


Bill   jumps   as   the   giant  Jack-in- 
the-Box  nods  its  greeting  to  him. 


It  could  be  you,  says  Bill  Leyden, 
enjoying  the  sun  at  Santa's  Village 


Santa  himself  welcomes  Sue  and  Bill  Leyden, 
Robert  Chadwick,  7,  Denise  and  Paula  Benson, 
aged  6  and  I  I,  while  little  John  Benson  finds 
playmates  just  his  size  among  the  baby  goats. 


Bill  Leyden  is  emcee  of  Ralph  Edwards'  It  Could 
Be  You,  as  seen  on  NBC-TV,  M-F,  12:30  P.  M.  EDT. 


Yes,  there  is  a  Santa  Claus.    The  only  point  of  disputation  is: 
Where  does  he  live?    Some  people  plunk  for  the  North 
Pole.     But,  each  year,  a  million  other  people  take  the 
Rim-of-the-World  Highway  (State  Highway  18),  drive  a  mile- 
high  into  the   San  Bernardino   Mountains,   and   stop   when 
they've  reached  never-never  land,  more  officially  known  as 
Skyforest,  California.     Here  is  Santa's  Village  and,  unlike  the 
North  Pole,  it's  much  more  than  a  postal  address.     Fourteen 
fantastical  buildings  nestle  among  the  pines,  and  here, 
together  with  elves  and  animals,  live  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Claus. 
Santa   is   here   to   greet  his   visitors   364   days    a    year.      On 
Christmas  Day,  he's  away  on  urgent  business.     In  winter,  the 
scene  is  snow-covered.     But  even  in  July,  it's  still  Christmas 
here.     Newlyweds  Sue  and  Bill  Leyden  gathered  up  four 
young    friends    to    prove    that,    when    it's    a    question    of 
the  happiest  kind  of  fairy  tales  coming  true,  it  could  be  you! 


There's  a  sleigh  and   reindeer,   of  course.   But  for  a   ride  through 
the  Enchanted   Forest,   visitors  take   Cinderella's   Pumpkin   coach. 


o 


V7? 


<*k 


sheerest  luxury perfected  protection 


make  New  Modess  your  own  discovery  this  month 


A  showdown  must  finally  come  in 
the  tangled  affairs  of  these 
three — Anthony  Franciosa,  Eva 
MarieSaint,  husband  Don  Murray. 


TV 


RADIO 
MIRROR 


20 


TV  favorites  on 

your  theater  screen 

By  JANET  GRAVES 
A  Hatful  of  Rain 

20th,  cinemascope 
Though  this  powerful  movie  is  adapted  from 
a  Broadway  play,  it  has  the  quietly  realistic, 
outspoken  manner  of  the  best  TV  dramas, 
and  all  its  leading  players  are  familiar  to 
television  fans.  As  the  war  veteran  tor- 
mented by  dope  addiction,  Don  Murray  gives 
a  strongly  emotional  performance.  He  is 
matched  by  Eva  Marie  Saint,  as  the  wife 
who  could  offer  help  and  sympathy  if  only 
she  were  given  her  husband's  full  confidence. 
But  Anthony  Franciosa  towers  over  both, 
with  his  compelling  portrayal  of  the  brother 
deeply  involved  in  the  addict's  situation.  And 
Lloyd  Nolan,  as  the  bluff,  unimaginative 
father,  shows  why  this  family  is  threatened 
by  tragedy.  Background  scenes  shot  in  New 
York  City  give  extra  conviction  to  a  story 
of  unusual  force. 

Bernardine 

20th,  cinemascope,  de  luxe  color 
Already  established  as  a  TV,  radio  and  re- 
cording   personality,    Pat    Boone    steps    into 
the  movie-acting  department  with  surprising 


ease.  He's  cast  as  leader  of  a  group  of 
teenagers — nice  kids  all,  without  a  delin- 
quent in  the  lot.  Their  chief  problem  centers 
around  the  romantic  quest  of  young  Richard 
Sargent,  who  has  fallen  madly  in  love  with 
Terry  Moore.  Trying  to  be  the  loyal  pal, 
Pat  succeeds  only  in  complicating  Dick's  life. 
And  Janet  Gaynor,  as  Dick's  widowed  moth- 
er, now  considering  a  second  marriage,  exhib- 
its the  same  pert  charm  in  maturity  as  she 
did  in  youth. 

Dino 

ALLIED  ARTISTS 

Widely  acclaimed  as  a  TV  play,  this  story 
of  slum  boyhood  hits  the  larger  screens  with 
equal  impact.  Sal  Mineo  does  an  excellent 
job  as  the  boy  just  released  from  reform 
school,  after  serving  a  term  on  a  robbery 
and  murder  charge.  As  the  psychiatrist  at 
the  local  settlement  house,  Brian  Keith 
takes  a  personal  interest  in  Sal's  case,  and 
the  gentle  attentions  of  young  Susan  Kohner, 
another  settlement-house  worker,  also  ex- 
ert a  healing  influence. 

The  Delicate  Delinquent 

PARAMOUNT,    VISTAVISION 

Now  that  Dean  Martin  has  shown  what  he 
can  do  on  his  own  in  "Ten  Thousand  Bed- 
rooms," Jerry  Lewis  goes  into  solo  action 
with  a  hard-to-classify  picture  of  tenement 
life  in  New  York.  As  a  youngster  who 
gets  hauled  into  a  police  station  on   a   de- 


linquency accusation,  Jerry  is  utterly  inno 
cent.  But  he  arouses  the  concern  of  Darren 
McGavin,  a  crusading  cop,  and  Martha  Hyer, 
a  lady  politico  who  believes  in  getting  tough 
with  the  trouble-making  kids.  Jerry's  role 
oddly  combines  serious  acting  with  his  fa- 
miliar clowning.  He  does  one  song,  "By 
Myself,"  which  is  neatly  staged  and  worked 
logically  into  the  course  of  the  story. 


At   Your   Neighborhood   Theaters 


Beau  James  (Paramount,  VistaVision 
Technicolor)  :  As  New  York  mayor  Jimmy 
Walker,  Bob  Hope  symbolizes  the  spirit  of 
the  Jazz  Age.  Paul  Douglas  and  Darren 
McGavin  take  key  roles  in  the  colorful 
political  intrigues;  Alexis  Smith  and  Vera 
Miles  are  the  ladies  in  Bob's  life. 


: 


The  Lonely  Man  (Paramount,  VistaVi- 
sion) :  Winner  of  TV's  Emmy  for  best  acting. 
Jack  Palance  has  a  strong  role  as  a  supposed 
desperado,  who  tries  to  settle  down  and  win 
the  affections  of  his  hostile  son,  Anthony 
Perkins.  Elaine  Aiken  is  the  girl  that  both 
men  love. 


: 

1 


The  Buster  Keaton  Story  (Paramount, 
VistaVision)  :  Donald  O'Connor  goes  dead- 
pan to  play  the  sober-faced  comic  of  silent- 
film  days.  Ann  Blyth  and  Rhonda  Fleming 
supply  romantic  interest,  but  fine  old  Keaton 
gags  are  the  big  attraction. 


Can  a  doctor  live  like  a  human  being  ? 

an  a  doctor  be  a  devoted  husband  to  his  wife,  a  loving  father  to  his  children? 

an  he  ever  afford  to  feel  angry,  hurt  or  proud?  Or  must  he  always  put  his 
amily  and  his  feelings  second?  Does  a  man  give  up  his  right  to  live  like 
Dther  men  when  he  takes  the  Hippocratic  oath?  Day  after  day,  Dr.  Jerry 
Malone  and  his  family  live  out  this  conflict.  Live  it  with  them  on  radio.  You 
san  get  the  whole  story — even  while  you  work — when  you  listen  to  daytime 
radio.  Listen  to  YOUNG  DR.  MALONE  on  the  CBS  RADIO  NETWORK. 

Monday  through  Friday.  See  your  local  paper  for  station  and  time. 


By  GORDON  BUDGE 

Take  one  busy  married  couple,  two  successful  careers, 
three  lively  young  children.  Put  'em  under  the 
same  roof  .  .  .  and  the  result  might  well  be  bedlam. 
But,  for  Bill  Williams  and  Barbara  Hale,  it's  a  bit  of 
heaven,  and  their  youngsters — Jody,  10;  Billy,  Jr.,  6; 
Nita,  4— are  three  little  angels  .  .  .  well,  almost  angels. 

Bill  and  Barbara  are  a  busy  couple  indeed,  and 
both  their  careers  have  just  gone  into  high  gear, 
TV-wise.   Bill,  long  known  on  television  as  venture- 
some Kit  Carson,  has  just  hurdled  neatly  from 
horse-opera  to  humor,  now  plays  opposite  charming 
Betty  White  in  the  rollicking  new  domestic   comedy, 
Date  With  The  Angels,  over  ABC-TV.  And  hazel- 
eyed  Barbara  has  just  been  cast  as  Delia  Street, 
witty  "Girl  Friday"  to  famed  lawyer-sleuth  Perry 
Mason,  whose  offbeat  adventures  in  detection  will 
be  seen  over  CBS-TV  starting  this  fall. 

Speaking  of  Date  With  The  Angels — specifically, 
of  Bill  and  Betty  as  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Gus  Angel — Barbara 
says,  in  mock  horror,  "I'd  no  sooner  been  cast  as 
Delia  Street  than  my  husband  turned  up  with 
another  wife!    I'm  thinking  of  calling  Perry  Mason 
in  on  this.   Already,  Betty  and  I  kid  each  other  about 
which  of  us  sees  more  of  Bill.    She's  with  him 
four  days  each  week — and  I  have  him  on  weekends." 

Speaking  of  her  own  three  little  angels  at  home, 

Continued^ 


Barbara  makes  the  most  of  family  weekends  with  Bill. 
Four  days  a  week,  she  must  share  him  with  his  TV  wife, 
Betty  White  (below,  right),  in  Date  With  The  Angels. 


Little  Nita's  had  a  busy  day — and  plenty 
from  the  barbecue — so  it's  one  big  goodni 
daddy  Bill,  before  Barbara  packs  her  off  to 


of  burgers 
ght  kiss  for 
dreamland. 


ts. 


1 


*>  ^ 


•"•"V 


AS  together:  Barbara  and  Bill,  with  Nita  (left),  Billy  Junior,  Jody — and  "Punch,"  their  collie. 


Heaven,  for  Bill  Williams,  is  that  date-for-life  with 

a  lovely  girl  named  Barbara  Hale—and  those  three  lively  youngsters 


23 


(Continued) 

Barbara  adds,  "Betty  has  offered  to  take  the  children, 
too.    And  there  are  times — like   today — when  I 
would  gladly  share  the  joys  of  motherhood.    Look 
at  this  house!   This  morning,  we  began  a  formal 
weeding  party  in  the  garden.   Then  came  the  weed 
fights — climaxed  by  tag  through  the  living  room.   I  feel 
like  the  old  witch  of  the  North  Woods,  and  I'm  tired 
of  saying,  'No,  hon.  .  .  .'   Do  you  know  anyone 
who  would  care  to  take  in  three  really  sweet- 
natured  but  wild-horse  children?" 

All  kidding  aside,  that  weeding  session  is  only 
part — along  with  numerous  other  activities  the 
Williamses  undertake  together — of  Barbara's  and  Bill's 
plan  to  make  up  for  the  time  their  jobs  separate  them 
from  their  family.    "I  joined  the  Perry  Mason 
series,"  Barbara  says  earnestly,  "because  I  felt  it 
would  help  the  children,  not  hurt  them.   To  my  way  of 
thinking,  any  woman  with  husband  and  children  to 
look  after  can  be  called  a  'working  mother.'   For 
instance,  when  Bill  and  I  were  at  one  of  our  infrequent 
parties,  the  other  night,  I  heard  one  of  the  girls  say, 
'I'm  sorry,  but  we're  going  to  have  to  leave  now 
...  I  have  to  get  up  at  six  A.M.  with  the  kids.'   Believe 
me,  I  know  that  by  the  time  her  day  is  through — 
what  with  PTA,  church  and  charity  work,  the  Camp 
Fire  Girls,  and  any  dozen  or  more  activities  that 
demand  her  time — she  well  deserves  the 
title  of  'working  mother.' 

"Point  is,"  Barbara  stresses,  "that  the  husband  and 
wife  are  sharing  some  common  goal,  some  dream 
of  the  future.    That's  why  I   (Continued  on  page  72) 

Bill  Williams  is  Gus  in  Date  With  The  Angels,  on  ABC-TV,  Fri., 
10  P.M.  EDT,  as  sponsored  by  the  Plymouth  Dealers  of  America. 


Billy  wants  to  be  an  Indian — if  he 
can't  be  Kit  Carson,  like  his  dad. 


Nita  and  Billy  love  to  go  marketing 
with  Mom  and  Dad.   Wonder  why? 


Niece  Dianne  Falness  watches  Barb 
cut  hasty  sandwiches  for  bike  ride. 


rr- 


Champ  swimmer  Bill  gives  Billy  and  Nita  water-skiing 
tips  on  Saturdays.  Sundays,  it's  time  to  go  to  church — 
and  Jody  and  Nita  give  their  all  to  some  hymn  practice. 


Barb's  own  father  is  a  top  landscape  architect — so 
she's  sure  to  pick  a  fine  tree  fern  for  their  garden. 


Billy  just  might   be  an    Indian   yet   (Cleveland,    that  is). 
He  swings  a  big-league  bat,  as  Bill  catches  and  coaches. 


Champ  swimmer  Bill  gives  Billy  and  Nita  water-skiing 
tips  on  Saturdays.  Sundays,  it's  time  to  go  to  church- 
and  Jody  and  Nita  give  their  all  to  some  hymn  practice 


(Continued) 

Barbara  adds,  "Betty  has  offered  to  take  the  children, 
too.    And  there  are  times— like  today— when  I 
would  gladly  share  the  joys  of  motherhood.   Look 
at  this  house!   This  morning,  we  began  a  formal 
weeding  party  in  the  garden.  Then  came  the  weed 
fights— climaxed  by  tag  through  the  living  room.  I  feel 
like  the  old  witch  of  the  North  Woods,  and  I'm  tired 
of  saying,  'No,  hon.  .  .  .'   Do  you  know  anyone 
who  would  care  to  take  in  three  really  sweet- 
natured  but  wild-horse  children?" 

All  kidding  aside,  that  weeding  session  is  only 
part — along  with  numerous  other  activities  the 
Williamses  undertake  together — of  Barbara's  and  Bill's 
plan  to  make  up  for  the  time  their  jobs  separate  them 
from  their  family.    "I  joined  the  Perry  Mason 
series,"  Barbara  says  earnestly,  "because  I  felt  it 
would  help  the  children,  not  hurt  them.  To  my  way  of 
thinking,  any  woman  with  husband  and  children  to 
look  after  can  be  called  a  'working  mother.'  For 
instance,  when  Bill  and  I  were  at  one  of  our  infrequent 
parties,  the  other  night,  I  heard  one  of  the  girls  say, 
'I'm  sorry,  but  we're  going  to  have  to  leave  now 
...  I  have  to  get  up  at  six  A.M.  with  the  kids.'  Believe 
me,  I  know  that  by  the  time  her  day  is  through — 
what  with  PTA,  church  and  charity  work,  the  Camp 
Fire  Girls,  and  any  dozen  or  more  activities  that 
demand  her  time — she  well  deserves  the 
title  of  'working  mother.' 

"Point  is,"  Barbara  stresses,  "that  the  husband  and 
wife  are  sharing  some  common  goal,  some  dream 
of  the  future.    That's  why  I   (Continued  on  page  72) 

Mill  Williams  is  Cus  in  Dale  With  The  Angels,  on  ABC-TV.  Fri., 
10  P.M.  EDT,  as  sponsored  by  the  Plymouth  Dealers  of  America. 


Billy  wants  to  be  an  Indian- 
can't  be  Kit  Carson,  like  his 


■if  he 
dad. 


My  Sentimental 


My  boy  has  his  faults,  but  he's 

been  a  good  son — and,  someday, 

he'll  be  a  good  husband  and  father 

By  GRACE  SANDS 


Two  little  girls  waved  to  me  the  other  day  and 
said,  "Hello,  Tommy's  mother."   I  used  to  be  Grace 
Sands;  now  I'm  "Tommy's  mother."   That's  fame. 
But  it  has  its  compensations.    I  get  special  attention 
these  days  from  the  young  clerks  at  the  supermarket, 
and  all  sorts  of  nice  people  smile  to  me  on  the  street 
and  say,  "Saw  you  on  This  Is  Your  Life — Tommy 
looked  wonderful." 

This  change  in  our  fortunes  has  not  been  lost  on  my 
son.  He  teases  me  about  it.   "Say,  Mama,  you're 
not  doing  laundry?"  he'll  say,  in  mock  shocked  tones, 
as  he  comes  into  the  kitchen  while  I'm  washing  out 
his  socks.   "Remember,  you're  'Tommy's  mother' 
now."   Then  we  have  a  good  laugh  as  I  go  right  on 
with  my  chores. 

Not  that  I  mean  to  talk  down  the  wonderful  success 
that  has  been  coming  to  my  boy  lately.   What 
mother  would?    It's  what  he  worked  for,  dreamed 
about,  gave  twelve  years  to.   But,  just  for  a  change,  I 
can't  help  thinking,  Wouldn't  it  be  poetic  justice  if 
some  fine  day  someone  rushed  (Continued  on  page  80) 


At  19,  he's  the  youngest  subject  Ralph  Edwards  ever  had 
on  This  Is  Your  Life.  Close  friend  Biff  Collie  (center) 
is  the  Texas  deejay  who  put  Tommy  on  his  TV  show — at  12 


Tommy  and  I  have  a  deep  affection,  but  I  think  he'll 
marry  early.  He  started  his  career  early,  you  know,  and 
he'll  never  forget  the  big  boost  Cliffie  Stone,  below, 
gave  him — and  Molly  Bee— on  Hometown  Jamboree. 


That  great  guy  from  Tennessee,  Ernie  Ford  (right), 
was  proud  as  I  was,  when  Ken  Nelson  of  Capitol,  gave 
Tommy  a  gold  record  for  his  "Teen-Age  Crush"  success. 


1 


the  Truth  about  POLLY 


Miss  Bergen  is  three  people 

in  one — and  a  recognizable  success  in 

each  and  every  personification 


It  was  dislike  at  first  sight — until  Freddie  Fields  played 
porter   and    both    he   and    Polly   got    carried    away. 


By  MARTIN  COHEN 

About   a   half-dozen   years   ago,   Polly   Bergen, 
then  an  M-G-M  starlet,  made  a  personal 
appearance  at  a  fair  in  Lubbock,  Texas.   All 
over  town,  she  saw  huge  posters,  "Presenting  the 
Famous  Singer,  Dancer,  Actress — Polly  Burger." 
Polly  says,  "Maybe  twenty-five  percent  of  it  was 
true.    I  had  been  singing  since  I  was  a  baby, 
but  I  was  just  in  the  elementary  business  of 
learning  to  act  and  dance.   Of  course,  they  spelled 
my  last  name  like  'hamburger' — which  proves 
they  were  really  kidding  themselves  about 
my  being  famous!" 

Since  then,  as  dancer,  singer  and/or  actress, 
Polly  has  headlined  the  country's  chic  clubs,  made  a 
dozen  movies  and  starred  (Continued  on  page  66) 

Polly  Bergen  is  a  regular  panelist  on  To  Tell  The  Truth,  as 
seen  on  CBS-TV,  each  Tuesday  at  9  P.M.  EDT,  and  sponsored 
by  Pharmaceuticals,  Inc.  for  Geritol  and  for  other  products. 


Tinker  Bell  lays  claim  to  nine  lives,  but  Polly's  happy  with  just 
three.  She  mixes  being  a  career  girl,  wife  and  mother  as  har- 
moniously as  she  combines  modern  and  antique  decor  at  home. 


m  ; 


Beauty  and  function  are  the  keynotes.  The  dressing-room  walls 
are  doors  to  huge  closets.  In  the  living  room,  below,  the  clay 
boxer  was  sculpted  by  Polly — a  photographer  and  pianist,  too. 


of  Omisr  Teen-age  Kids? 


Humorist-humanitarian  Sam  Levenson 
has  strong  words  for  children 
who  rebel  against  authority — and 
for  parents  who  can't  say  "No!" 

By  GLADYS  HALL 


Mother  Levenson  encourages  four- 
year-old    Emily    to    dress    herself. 


Nothing  so  fine  as  a   bathroom 
duet  for  father-and-son  solidarity. 


Sam  Levenson  has  taught  son  Conrad  to  be  independent. 
Each  week  he  adds  to  allowance  money  by  washing  fam- 
ily car,  taping  Sam's  TV  show  for  him.  The  Levensons  are 
a  musical  family,  love  their  three-guitar,  piano  combo. 


Isn't  it  dangerous,  as  many  church  leaders  and 
teachers  and  social  workers  believe,  for  teenagers  to 
go  steady?  If  we,  the  parents,  also  recognize  the 
danger,  why  don't  we  forbid  them  to  do  so? 

Should  twelve-year-old  girls  be  allowed  to  wear  lip- 
stick— and  falsies? 

Should  sixteen-year-old  boys  be  permitted  to  have 
cars  of  their  own? 

When  a  teen-age  son  or  daughter  starts  to  smoke  at 
an  earlier  age  than  we  believe  good  for  them,  isn't  it 
up  to  us  to  say  "No" — and  mean  it? 

When  we  have  reason  to  believe  that  our  teen-age 
boys  and  girls  are  making  the  kind  of  friends  that  will 
do  them  no  good,  aren't  we  obligated  to  signal 
"Thumbs  down" — and  keep  them  down? 

When  we  tell  a  teen-age  son  or  daughter  that  ten 
o'clock  is  curfew,  shouldn't  the  teenager  observe  the 
curfew — or  be  penalized? 

If  we  disapprove  of  our  kids  hanging  around  the 
candy  store  on  the  corner,  playing  rock  'n'  roll  records 
the  clock  around,  to  the  detriment  of  their  home- 
work and  other  duties,  why  don't  we  lay  down  the  law 
to  them — and  see  to  it  that  the  law  is  kept? 


rB,HE  proper  answer  to  each  of  these  questions,  and 

many  others  like  them,  is  as  clear  as  the  difference 
between  right  and  wrong  itself,  yet  it  is  obvious — as 
the  juvenile-delinquency  problem  bears  sad  witness — 
that  too  many  of  us  do  not  make  the  right  answers. 

Why  don't  we? 

"Because  we  are  afraid  of  these   kids,"   says   Sam 
Levenson,  "mortally  afraid!" 

As  one  of  eight  youngsters,  with  six  brothers  and 
a  sister,  brought  up  in  the    (Continued  on  page  82) 

Sam  Levenson  is  the  genial  quipmaster  of  Two  For  The  Money,  as 
seen -on  CBS-TV  each  Saturday  evening  from  8:30  to  9  P.M.  EDT. 


From  the  Fields  o 


Lawrence  Welk  heard  music  in  the  wind,  the  sun,  the 

earth    .    .    .    and  felt  the  very  heartbeat  of  America 

By  MAXINE  ARNOLD 


Homesteaders   Ludwig   and    Kristina   Welk 


Four  hundred  dollars!"  The  farm- 
er stopped  his  plough  and  looked 
at  his  next-to-youngest  son,  who 
was  working  in  the  field  with  him. 
His  son  Lawrence,  who  was  afire 
with  this  talk  of  an  accordion  he'd 
seen  in  the  new  catalogue.  .  .  .  Lud- 
wig Welk's  face  was  troubled.  He 
looked  around  him  in  the  fields,  with 


This  farm  boy's  dream — an  accordion. 


THE  DAKOTAS 


with  baby  Lawrence  in  his  mother's  lap. 


an  immigrant's  love  for  the  roots 
he'd  put  down  in  this  generous  new 
land.  This  North  Dakota  farmland 
he'd  homesteaded  for  his  family. 
Here  were  their  roots,  top.  They 
should  stay  here  with  the  land  .  .  . 
and  harvest  life  here. 

Now     seventeen-year-old     Law- 
rence was  turning  his  back  on  that 


Eight  children  now:  Ludwig  and  Kristina  with — left  to  right — Lawrence, 
little  Mike,  John,  Louis,  youngest  daughter  Eva  (now  a  nurse  in  Aberdeen, 
South  Dakota),  Ann  Mary,  Barbara,  Agatha.  Four  sturdy  sons  Ludwig  was 
sure  would  farm  the  rich  American  land  he  and  his  wife  had  come  from  far- 
off  Europe  to  find  .  .  .  but  Lawrence  was  to  pioneer  in  quite  another  field. 


Continued 


► 


Lawrence   as   a 


musical 


jtadc 


It  was  with  George  Kelly  (lower  right)  and  Mrs.  Kelly  that  the  youthful 
Lawrence  first  learned  show  business.  If  it  hadn't  been  for  their  teaching, 
he  says  with  deepest  gratitude,  "I  don't  think  I  could  ever  have  made  it." 


From  the  Fields  of  THE  DAKOTAS 


Lawrence  Welk  heard  musk  in  the  wind,  the  sun,  the 

earth    .    .    .   and  felt  the  very  heartbeat  of  America 

By  MAXINE  ARNOLD 


Homesteaders   Ludwig   and   Kris+ina  Well 


Four  hundred  dollars!"  The  farm- 
er stopped  his  plough  and  looked 
at  his  next-to-youngest  son,  who 
was  working  in  the  field  with  him. 
His  son  Lawrence,  who  was  afire 
with  this  talk  of  an  accordion  he'd 
seen  in  the  new  catalogue.  .  .  •  Lud- 
wig Welk's  face  was  troubled.  He 
looked  around  him  in  the  fields,  with 


This  farm  boy's  dream — an  accordion. 


V 

i 

•  ¥* 

t 

> 

f    ..    # 

*H  ** 

\ 

1 

■  , 

- 

-•w 

'ith  baby  Lawrence  in  his  mother's  lap. 


an  immigrant's  love  for  the  roots 
he'd  put  down  in  this  generous  new 
land.  This  North  Dakota  farmland 
he'd  homesteaded  for  his  family. 
Here  were  their  roots,  too.  They 
should  stay  here  with  the  iand  .  .  . 
and  harvest  life  here. 

Now     seventeen-year-old     Law- 
rence was  turning  his  back  on  that 

Lawrence   as   a   musical    "matador." 


Eight  children  now:  Ludwig  and  Kristina  with — left  to  right — Lawrence, 
little  Mike,  John,  Louis,  youngest  daughter  Eva  (now  a  nurse  in  Aberdeen, 
South  Dakota),  Ann  Mary,  Barbara,  Agatha.  Four  sturdy  sons  Ludwig  was 
sure  would  farm  the  rich  American  land  he  and  his  wife  had  come  from  far- 
off  Europe  to  find  .  .  .  but  Lawrence  was  to  pioneer  in  quite  another  field. 

Continued  w 


It  was  with  George  Kelly  (lower  right)  and  Mrs.  Kelly  that  the  youthful 
Lawrence  first  learned  show  business.  If  it  hadn't  been  for  their  teaching, 
he  says  with  deepest  gratitude,  "I  don't  think  I  could  ever  have  made  it." 


From  the  Fields  of  THE  DAKOTAS 


(Continued) 


Lawrence  Welk  has  good  reason  to  remember  South  Dakota,  too. 
In  Yankton,  he  broadcast  from  WNAX  with  his  new  six-piece  band 
(above) — and  met  his  future  bride.  They  were  wed  when  he  played 
a  Sioux  Falls  date  (below,  with  Chuck  Coffee  seated  beside  him). 


The  Lawrence  Welk  Show,  ABC-TV,  Sat.,  9  P.M.,  is  sponsored  by  the  Dodge  Dealers  of 
America.  Lawrence  Welk's  Top  Tunes  And  New  Talent,  ABC-TV,  Mon.,  9:30  P.M.,  for 
both  Dodge  and  Plymouth.  Welk's  also  heard  on  ABC  Radio,  including  Sat.,  10:05  P.M., 
and  ABC's  Dancing  Party,  M-F,  9:30  P.M.;  check  local  papers.  (All  times  given  EDT) 


Today,    in    California,    with    his    two 
teenagers,  Lawrence,  Jr.  and  Donna. 


land  for  a  "gypsy"  future  that  would 
never  root  down  anywhere.  And  he 
wanted  him  to  invest  four  hundred 
dollars  in  an  accordion.  ...  Of 
course,  he  would  pay  the  money 
back,  every  cent  of  it,  Lawrence 
was  saying.  There  in  the  middle  of 
a  wheat  field,  he  was  standing  his 
ground.  But,  watching  his  father's 
face,  he  could  feel  that  ground  fast 
giving  way  under  him. 

"We  have  no  four  hundred  dollars 
to  spend,"  his  father  said  sternly. 
And  he  wouldn't  buy  it  on  credit. 
Lawrence  knew  that.  Ludwig  Welk 
had  never  bought  anything  on  credit 
in  his  life.  There  could  be  a  drouth, 
he  would  reason  conscientiously. 
Something  (Continued  on  page  76) 


Fern   Renner,   the  girl   he   married — 
"perfect  wife  and   perfect  mother." 


Older    daughter    Shirley's    wedding 
was  a   red-letter  day  for  Lawrence. 


Another  big  occasion  for  the  family:  A  visit  from  Person  To  Person 

— featuring,  left  to  right,  Shirley,  Lawrence,  Larry  Junior  and  Donna. 


This  Is  Your  Life!     Lawrence  and  Fern  on  couch;  Donna,  Shirley  and  son-in-law  Dr.  Robert  Emmett 
Fredericks  behind  them.    Just  behind  host  Ralph  Edwards  are  sister  Eva  Welk  (in  dark  dress),  three  of 
the  Lennon  Sisters,  Larry  (seated).    Left  to  right,  rear — Eddie  Weisfeld,   former   Milwaukee  theater: 
manager;  the  George  Kellys;  ballroom  owner  Tom  Archer;  Chuck  Coffee;  Jack  Minor  of  Plymouth. 


»^H  * 


( 


\**r 


£ 


o« 


¥ 


<M? 


36 


The  pears  amounted  to  nothing,  really — just  a  surprise  gift  to 

Sara  from  Mike  to  say  again,  "I  love  you."  And  in 

their  happiness,  neither  sensed  the  growing  threat  to  one  they  loved. 


Inexorably,  the  fatal  threads  weave  to  entangle  Mike 
and  Sara  Karrs  friends  with  Mike's  duty  as 
Assistant  District  Attorney — and  pull  them  closer  to  . 


dg£e   o-ff   Ni 


Sara  called  and,  when  she  hung  up,  Mike  Karr 
looked  across  his  desk  at  Willy  and  grinned  at 
him.  He  indicated  the  memo  he'd  made  on  his  "Assis- 
tant District  Attorney"  stationery.  The  memo  said, 
Yellow  pears,  the  sweet  and  juicy  kind.  Mike  beamed. 
"It's  pears  this  time,  Willy." 

Willy  grunted,  but  Mike  couldn't  suppress  his  en- 
thusiasm as  he  went  on:  "Do  you  know,  Willy,  you've 
made  a  mistake  in  not  getting  married?" 

Willy — Wilhelmus  Bogart  Bryan,  III — did  not  an- 
swer. Mike  felt  that  life  was  very  good,  nowadays. 
He  and  Sara'd  had  bad  times,  of  course.  Only  a 
couple  of  months  ago,  things  had  looked  rough.  Sara 
was  insisting  on  being  a  working  wife,  and  Mike  had 
been  absorbed  in  his  work,  and  they  weren't  getting 
along  too  well.   But  now  he  felt  good  all  over. 

Willy  would  usually  share  his  mood.  He  not  only 
worked  under  Mike,  as  an  investigator  on  the  Dis- 
trict Attorney's  staff,  but  he  liked  Mike.  He  dourly 
worshipped  Sara.  Now,  though,  he  didn't  smile. 
"Something  on  your  mind?"  asked  Mike.  "What?" 

Willy  scowled  at  his  fingers.  In  his  own  particular 
line  of  work,  he  was  a  perfectionist.  Nobody  would 
ever  demand  of  him  one-half  what  he  demanded  of 
himself,  when  something  was  to  be  investigated. 
Mike  had  especially  asked  for  him  when  he  himself 
was  assigned  to  cooperate  with  the  Citizens'  Crime 
Commission  in  a  campaign  against  the  black  market 
in  babies.  Willy'd  been  gathering  background  mate- 
rial.  Now  his  expression  was  deadpan — too  deadpan. 

"I  hit  on  something,"  said  Willy,  at  last.  "I  don't 
like  it." 

Mike  leaned  back  in  his  chair.  As  Assistant  Dis- 
trict Attorney,  one  looked  at  things  from  a  special 
viewpoint.  One  wasn't  angry  because  people  com- 
mitted crimes.  One  couldn't  be.  One  had  to  take 
people  as  they  came.  Some  came  pretty  bad.  When 
Willy  said  he  didn't  like  something,  it  didn't  mean 
indignation — riot  necessarily. 

"I  think  it's  a  black-market  baby  affair,"  said  Willy, 
"and  you  wouldn't  believe  it."  He  scowled  at  the 
wall.  "I  was  down  in  the  City  Hall,  looking  up  some 
records.  Births  and  deaths  and  so  on.  The  thing  I 
was  working  on  called  for  it." 

"Well?"  said  Mike. 

"I  saw  the  death  record  of  a  baby.  Ten  years  back." 

"Well?"  said  Mike  again. 


"I  know  the  kid,"  said  Willy  vexedly.  "He's  ten 
years  old  and  plays  a  good  game  of  baseball,  for  a 
kid.   But  his  death's  on  record." 

Mike  frowned  in  his  turn,  watching  Willy.  "It 
smells  a  little,"  he  observed.  "You  think  it's  black- 
market?" 

"Not  the  dead  baby,"  said  Willy.  "The  death  cer- 
tificate's okay.  It's  signed  by  the  same  doctor  who 
delivered  the  baby.  I'd  like  to  ask  him,  but  he  died 
six  years  ago.  It  looks  like  a  baby  died  and  somebody 
switched  in  another,  without  anybody  finding  it  out. 
What  do  I  do?" 

Mike  understood.  Willy  had  found  a  case  he  was 
reluctant  to  follow  because  it  might  hurt  somebody. 
But  he  couldn't  let  it  alone. 

"You've  got  discretion,"  said  Mike.  "Use  it.  If 
nobody's  been  hurt,  if  there's  been  no  injustice — we 
don't  take  cases  to  court  just  to  broadcast  family  se- 
crets.   But  if  there's  something  wrong  .  .  ." 

Willy  nodded.  "I'll  check.  I  don't  like  it,  though. 
I'd  never  suspected  a  thing,  but  I  can  make  a  guess 
why  it  was  done.  But  how?  And  how  bad  was  the 
how?   It  could  be  pretty  bad  indeed." 

He  stood  up  abruptly.  Mike  folded  the  memo  he'd 
made,  and  Willy  said,  "Watch  that  memo!  Sara  wants 
yellow  pears — I  think  I  know  a  place.  I'll  see.  But 
you  don't  want  to  forget." 

He  went  out  of  the  office.  Mike  turned  back  to  his 
work.  It  wasn't  all  pleasant,  the  job  of  an  Assistant 
District  Attorney.  In  this  black-market  business, 
now.  There'd  been  heartbreaking  cases  involving 
advantages  taken  of  girls  who  were  ashamed,  threats 
of  scandal,  blackmail  threats  to  claim  a  baby  back 
when  it  had  wound  itself  into  the  heartstrings  of 
the  people  who'd  gotten  it.  There  isn't  anything  much 
lower  than  a  racketeer  who'll  batten  on  the  love  of 
adults  for  children. 

When  Mike  went  home  that  evening,  he  carried 
a  box  of  pears.  Each  one  was  separately  wrapped 
in  tissue-paper.  Sara  bit  into  one  instantly  and 
beamed  gratefully  at  him.  "Oh,  but  it's  good!"  she 
said  happily.    "Am  I  a  nuisance,  Mike?" 

"Willy  got  them,"  Mike  confessed.  "It  was  his 
idea  to  have  them  gift-wrapped."  Hanging  up  his 
coat,  he  asked,  "What's  news?" 

"I  had  company,"  she  told  him.  "Mary  Harper 
came    over   for   a    while.    (Continued   on   page  61) 


The  Edge  Of  Night  is  seen  on  CBS-TV,  M-F,  4:30  to  5  P.M.  EDT,  as  sponsored  by  The  Procter  &  Gamble  Company  for  Tide,  Dreft, 
Spic  and  Span,  Comet,  and  Lava.  John  Larkin  and  Teal  Ames  are  pictured  on  opposite  page  in  their  roles  as  Mike  and  Sara  Karr. 


A  FICTION   BONUS 


***■ 


In  the  Swim  at  Lake  Arrowhead 


Up  at  Lake  Arrowhead  the  water's  the 
bluest,  the  mountains  are  the  highest, 
the  sun  the  brightest.  And  a  redheaded 
singing  angel  named  Carol  Richards  called 
it  "Heaven."   Carol  first  rented  a  house 
at  Arrowhead  to  give  her  two  daughters,  Jean, 
who  is  twelve,  and  Judy,  ten,  a  bang-up 
summer  of  fun.    She  and  the  girls  fell  in 
love  with  the  place,  so  Carol  bought  the 
house.    A  housemother  cares  for.  Jean  and 
Judy  during  the  week,  while  Carol  has 
to  be  in  Hollywood  for  her  appearances   on 
The  Bob  Crosby  Show  on  CBS-TV.  But, 
every  weekend,  she  heads  for  "home"  at 
Arrowhead  with  the  girls.   The  days  are 
crammed  with  boating,  swimming,  water- 
skiing,  horseback  riding  and  picnic  excursions 
with  the  girls  and  the  friends  they've  made 
at  the  Lake.   There's  an  outdoor  movie, 
fringed  with  tall  pines — which  frequently 
serve  as  free   "seats"  for  adventurous  little 
boys  who  lack  the  50^  admission.  Every 
Saturday  night,  the  whole  Village  turns  out 
for  a  community  dance,  the  big  social  event 
of  the  week.  For  Carol  and  her  two  blond 
charmers,  Arrowhead  is  absolute  tops 
for  living  it  up — in  heaven  under  the  sun! 

Carol  Richards  sings  on  The  Bob  Crosby  Show,  CBS- 
TV,  M-F,  3:30  P.M.  EDT,  under  multiple  sponsorship. 

Continued     w 


With  her  two  daughters,  Carol  Richards- 
singer  on  The  Bob  Crosby  Show — 
lives  a  gay  life  in  the  sun 


Off  for  a  water-skiing  lesson,  Carol's  first  attempt  at  the 
sport.  Left  to  right  (above)  are  Carol,  Jean,  Judy,  their 
friend  Sean  Freeman  and  boat  owner  Bill  Barlow.  On  the  skis, 
Carol  made  twenty  feet,  dunked.    Got  the  knack  in  three  tries. 


In  the  Swim  at  Lake  Arrowhead 


(Continued) 


First  one  up  makes  the  beds.  Carol  does  all 
the  housekeeping,  with  the  girls'  help.  Next 
comes  sandwich  time.  The  girls  develop  king- 
size    appetites    during    their    morning    swim. 


Carol  and  daughter  Judy  lug  a  bale  of  laun- 
dry to  the  Village  laundromat  each  Saturday. 
Both  Judy  and  Jean  help  out  with  chores,  know 
sharing    work    adds    to    time    for    family    fun. 


Carol  and  Judy  astride  the  mechanical  horses 
in  the  Village.  Both  Carol  and  the  girls  also 
ride  "live"  horses,  rented  from  the  Village 
stable.  Arrowhead  boasts  famous  bridle  paths. 


Dinner  at  "The  Chalet."  A  treat,  since  the  menu  features 
fresh-caught  trout.  Gourmet  diners  enjoy  watching  through 
restaurant  window  as  a  fisherman  catches  their  dinner. 
(Below)    Carol,    pretty    as    a    picture,    for   Village    dance. 


In  Village  for  weekly  shopping  chores,  Carol 
stops  off  for  cooling  drink.  The  fountain  is 
spring-fed  from  the  melting  snows  in  near-by 
San  Bernardino  Mountains.    Tastes  wonderful! 


4*   wSfii 


■ 


the  Booties 

When  we  got  married,  we  only  knew 
we  were  in  love.    I  never  guessed 
Pat  Boone,  husband  and  student, 
would  become  Pat  Boone,  movie  star ! 

By  SHIRLEY  BOONE 

as  told  to 

Maurine  Remenih 


Probably  'most  every  girl  across  the  country 
dreams  of  going  to  Hollywood  some  day. 
Many  girls  want  to  come  out  here  to  be 
seen,  but  most  of  them  just  want  to  come 
to  see.    That's  what  I'd  always  wanted  to  do. 
And  I  must  say  that  I've  got  in  an  awful  lot 
of  "seeing"  since  Pat  and  I  arrived  in  Hollywood 
last  spring.    Looking  back  on  it,  now  that 
I've  had  a  chance  to  settle  down  in  our  rented 
house  and  catch  my  breath,  I  guess  it  has 
been  the  most  exciting,  (Continued  on  page  63) 


All  dressed  up  (and  so  excited),  as  Pat  took  me  to  my  first  for- 
mal Hollywood  party — for  Photoplay's  Gold  Medal  Awards. 


My  Pat  was  a  "celebrity,"  too, 
singing  at  the  Photoplay  dinner. 


Stars  galore!  Eddie  Fisher  and  Debbie 
Reynolds  were  just  about  the  only  ones 
I  met  that  I'd  already  known  back  East. 


Come  fall,  Pat  will  head  his  own 
show  on  ABC-TV — just  like  my  dad 
Red  Foley,  who  has  Ozark  Jubilee. 


Go  to  HOLLYWOOD 


Our  welcome. was  warm — though  we  arrived  the  week  Los  Angeles  had  its  first  snowfall  in  years. 
Lunching  at  the  20th  Century-Fox  commissary  was  a  Scene  from  "Bernardine" — left  to  right,  Tom  Pittman, 

treat  for  me — as  well  as  for  Lindy,  Cherry  and  Debby.  Richard  Sargent,  Pat,  Val  Benedict  and  Ronnie  Burns. 


New  Hot  Singers  of  1957 


They're  flirting 

with  fame!    Here 

TV  Radio  Mirror  presents 

this  year's  crop 

of  hit-makers 

By   HELEN   BOLSTAD 


Sonny  sightsees  at  the  U.N.,  is  sur- 
prised when  fans  recognize  him — 
and  consider  Sonny  quite  a  sight  to 
see,  too!  Below,  he  talks  shop  with 
popular     deejay     Jerry      Marshall. 


Playing   New   York's   fabled    Palace,    recording   for   Capitol,    Sonny   James    has    it 
made — still  remains  a  nice  young  bachelor  "from  Hackleburg,  Alabama,  ma'am." 


44 


ft* 


BCHIDS* 


-- 


Today,  even  Ed  Sullivan  smiles  on  Jimmy  Bowen  (left),  Dave  Alldred  (center),  Buddy  Knox  and  Don  Lanier — 
who  started  out  with  experiments  in  sound  on  paper-box  drums  and  garbage-can  iids,  back  home  in  Texas. 


Who  is  tomorrow's  dreamboat? 
Whose  songs  will  the  teenagers 
choose  as  background  music 
for  the  school  year's  first  romance? 
Which  vocalist  in  his  twenties  .  .  . 
or  even  in  his  teens  .  .  .  will  win 
fame  in  a  year  when  a  disc-jockey's 
turntable  literally  becomes  the 
wheel  of  fortune? 

It   may    be   someone    like    Sonny 
James,    who    already    has    made    a 


dramatic  bid  for  attention.  It  may 
be  some  well-trained  singer  like 
Johnny  Mathis,  who  has  worked 
since  childhood — and  now,  in  the 
language  of  the  entertainment  busi- 
ness, is  "ready  to  go."  It  may  be 
someone  like  Tab  Hunter,  whose 
major  interest  has  been  in  an  allied 
field.  It  may  be  someone  like 
Buddy  Knox,  Jimmy  Bowen  or 
Charlie    Gracie,    whose   debut   rec- 


ords "just  took  off."  TV  Radio 
Mirror  herewith  nominates  at  least 
fourteen  such  candidates  bidding  for 
top  honors.  Each  has  youth,  voice, 
good  looks,  ambition,  and  a  way 
with  a  song. 

Yet,  promising  as  they  are,  they 
may  all  be  surpassed  by  someone 
yet  unknown  .  .  .  some  lad  who 
right  now  is  sitting  on  a  beach, 
holding  hands  with  his  girl,  dream- 


The  Rhythm  Orchids  had  to  wax  fast  for  Roulette,  to  stockpile  discs  for  Buddy's  six-month  tour  of  duty  in  the  Army. 


BllSri 


New  Hot  Singers  of  1957 


Tab  Hunter  gambled  film  career  to 
make  records  for  Dot  music  director 
Billy  Vaughn  and  prexy  Randy  Wood. 


46 


Philadelphia's  latest  spectacular  new- 
comer, Charlie  Sracie,  collects  go- 
ing and  coming.  He  sings  on  Cameo 
label — and  he  writes  hit  songs,  too. 


Hollywood  had  always  thought  Tab  was  something  to  see,  rather  than  hear! 


ing  up  a  song  and  wondering  how 
it  would  sound  if  he  got  some  of  the 
guys  together  and  they  tried  cutting 
his  tune  on  the  neighbor's  tape- 
recorder. 

Crazy?  Of  course,  it  is.  Yet,  be- 
cause this  is  the  craziest  year  the 
recording  industry  has  ever  known, 
the  home-town  lad  with  the  home- 
made song  just  might  make  it. 

Buddy  Knox  and  Jimmy  Bowen — 


the  students  who  simultaneously  put 
two  songs,  "Party  Doll"  and  "I'm 
Sticking  With  You,"  into  the  top 
hits — first  worked  out  sound  effects 
by  setting  up  tape-recorders  at 
night  and  shouting  down  the  corri- 
dors of  the  speech  building  while 
their  pals  Dave  Alldred  and  Don 
Lanier  beat  out  the  rhythm  on  a 
paper  box  and  the  lid  of  a  garbage 
can.  Home-made  sound,  all  the  way. 


Charlie's  not  ready  to  marry  yet — "but  when  I  do,  I  want  a  home-type  girl."  His 
favorite  audience  is  still  his  parents  and  younger  brothers,   Robert  and  Frank. 


Dean  now  holds  M-G-M  contracts  to 
make  not  only  records  but  big  musicals. 
Above,    at   studio   with    Lauren    Baca II-. 


With  Dean  Jones,  it  was  his  singing  voice  which  won  him  a  film  career.         Dean  on  Steve  Allen  Show — via  "remote. 


Johnny  Cash,  who  can  swing  a 
prairie  ballad  over  into  the  pop 
field,  was  a  hungry  young  appliance 
salesman  when  he  asked  two 
friends,  then  garage  mechanics,  if 
they'd  help  him  out  by  playing 
guitar  and  bass  when  he  sang  one 
of  his  own  songs  on  a  demonstra- 
tion record. 

George  Hamilton  IV  and  Johnny 
Dee  were  the  lanky  boy -wonders  at 

Eddie     Dano     (with     MCA's     Danny 
Welk)  was  RCA  Victor  office  worker. 


a  small  TV  station  when  Johnny 
wrote  "A  Rose  and  a  Baby  Ruth" 
and  George  put  it  on  wax  at  a  small 
studio. 

The  story  multiplies  and  can  well 
multiply  further.  For  this  is  the 
year  when  the  boy  next  door  went 
to  town,  often  in  a  pastel  Cadillac 
.  .  .  when  touring  rock  'n'  roll  and 
country-and-Western  shows  origi- 
nated more  hits  than  Broadway. 

Scott  Engel  is  RKO- Unique  star  at 
13.  He  and  mother  hail  from  Denver. 


Not  long  ago,  when  Tin  Pan 
Alley  was  a  closed  corporation, 
these  kids  from  the  sticks  wouldn't 
even  have  won  a  listen  from  the 
least  important  of  artists -and-rep- 
ertoire  men.  Now,  the  teen-age 
audience  is  calling  the  turn.  Thanks 
to  the  music -business  revolution 
which  began  with  Bill  Haley's  rock 
'n'  roll,  which  hit  a  financial  peak 
with  Presley,  and  which  found  new 

Bill    Carey    sings    for    Savoy,    hopes 
for  a  hit  like  roommate  Jim  Lowe's. 


New  Hot  Singers  of  1957 


Teachers  irked  Eddie  Cochran — but 
out  in  Hollywood  he  works  hard  with 
arranger  and  songwriter  Ray  Stanley. 


Johnny  Mathis  (with  Joan  Wright) 
studied  seriously,  is  star  athlete  at 
high  jump  and  records  for  Columbia. 


48 


Eddie  did   "Twenty   Flight   Rock"   for  Liberty,   was  then   paged  for  movie   role. 


nQ£ 


fire  with  the  sudden  nationwide 
success  of  Tommy  Sands,  the  lads 
with  a  fresh  lyric  and  a  new  sound 
are  much  in  demand.  An  execu- 
tive at  one  large  recording  com- 
pany, which  had  long  concentrated 
only  on  top  stars,  defined  his  studio's 
change  in  policy:  "The  kids  can  by- 
pass Broadway.  We've  got  our 
scouts  out,  beating  the  bushes, 
looking  for  them." 

Broadway,  too,  went  looking  for 
grass-roots  singers,  and  the  name  of 
Sonny  James  ("from  Hackleburg, 
Alabama,  ma'am")  blazed  in  lights 
at  the  Palace.  Sonny's  Capitol  re- 
lease of  "Young  Love"  had  already 
sold  two  million  records  and  be- 
come one  of  the  few  country-and- 
Western  tunes  to  break  over  into 
the  pop  field. 

With  Sonny  also  introducing 
"First  Date,  First  Kiss,  First  Love," 
there  were  as  many  sighs  as  shrieks 
from  happy  fans,  for  Sonny  cut  a 
romantic  figure  up  there  on  that 
famed  stage.  His  black  hair  curls 
crisply.  The  white  suit  which  drapes 
his  athletic  six-foot  frame  enhances 
the  smoky  blue  of  his  eyes  and  the 
brightness  of  his  open  smile.  Being 
able  to  knot  his  black  string  tie  into 


a  precise  bow  without  aid  of  a  mir- 
ror is  a  point  of  pride  with  him. 
"That's  how  you  tell  a  real  Southern 
gentleman,"  says  Sonny. 

He's  been  singing  since  he  was 
knee-high  to  a  hammer  handle. 
"Mom,  Pop,  my  sis  and  I  were  "The 
Loden  Family.'  Used  to  play  radio 
stations  and  one-nighters."  He 
still  wears  his  Hackleburg  high- 
school  ring.  "I  started  first  grade 
there  and  I  graduated  there.  But, 
in  between,  I  went  to  seven  differ- 
ent schools." 

For  all  their  moving  around, 
Sonny  played  baseball,  basketball, 
football.  "Pops  just  never  would 
book  a  show  on  nights  the  team  was 
playing,"  he  explains. 

When  his  sister  married  and  his 
parents  retired  to  run  a  clothing 
store,  he  dropped  his  surname  and 
billed  himself  as  "Sonny  James." 
Big  D  Jamboree  in  Dallas,  and 
Ozark  Jubilee  on  ABC-TV,  built 
his  audience.  Ed  Sullivan  welcomed 
him  and  so  did  Bob  Hope.  Sonny 
had  a  fine  time  with  Hope.  "I  went 
out  to  visit  and  had  supper  with  the 
family.     He  sure  has  nice  kids." 

"Nice"  is  a  meaningful  word  to 
him.     "I  try  to  be  a  nice  person  and 


— ^J 


Rovin'  Johnny  Cash  sings  with  a  lot  of  "go" — and  a  lonely  sound,  too.    His  popularity 
justifies   faith    of   Sun    Records'    Sam    Phillips   (white   suit)   and    manager   Bob   Neal    (right). 


to  live  nice."  His  religion  is  real, 
and  he  makes  his  contracts  conform 
to  his  beliefs.  He  will  not  appear 
where  liquor  is  served.  "It  wouldn't 
be  right.  My  young  fans  couldn't 
go." 

While  still  a  bachelor,  Sonny 
hopes  some  day  to  build  a  house  in 
Hackleburg.  "Friends  there  have 
known  me  since  I  was  just  a  little 
tyke.  I  like  to  visit  and  entertain 
and  meet  people,  so  I'll  live  where 
I'm  home-folks,  not  a  celebrity." 

He's  applying  the  same  common- 
sense  rule  to  Hollywood  offers.  "It 
would  be  right  nice  to  get  a  chance 
to  make  a  picture,  providing  they 
let  me  play  myself.  That's  all  I'd 
be  interested  in  doing — singling  my 
own  heart  songs." 

Two  home-made  hit  records  were 
the  flying  discs  which  took  Buddy 
Knox  and  Jimmy  Bowen  from  Can- 
yon, Texas,  to  Broadway  in  one 
breathless  jump.  "We'd  never  even 
been  on  stage  before  we  got  to  the 
Paramount,"  says  Buddy.  "And 
boy!  was  that  a  shock." 

It  was  also  a  shock  to  the  New 
York  police,  for  the  boys  were  in 
the  cast  of  the  Alan  Freed  rock  'n' 
roll  show  which  pulled  more  than 
5,000  teenagers  into  Times  Square 
by  eight  A.M.  of  opening  day.  They 
jammed  adjacent  streets,  crashed 
ticket-office  windows  and  stamped 
out  the  rhythm  until  building  in- 
spectors closed  a  theater  balcony. 
"You  could  actually  see  it  sway," 
says  Jimmy. 

Center  of  a  high-pressure  part  of 
this  enthusiasm  was  a  little  four- 
man  combo — Buddy,  Jim,  Dave  All- 
dred,  Don  Lanier,  playing  under  the 
improbable  name  of  "The  Rhythm 
Orchids" — which  had  already  per- 
formed the  improbable  achievement 
of   starting   two   home-made   songs, 


"Moon"  songs  for  Prep  set  a  starry 
trail  for  Bob  Roubian — who  serves  up 
real    jam    sessions   at   his    restaurant. 


Buddy's  "Party  Doll"  and  Jimmy's 
"I'm  Sticking  With  You,"  toward  the 
hit  charts.  Phil  Kahl  heard  them 
and  signed  the  boys  to  a  manage- 
ment contract,  and  Roulette  Records 
bought  their  master  for  re-issue. 
The  kids  of  America  did  the  rest. 

Six  feet  tall,  dark -haired  and 
hazel-eyed,  Jimmy  Bowen  was  born 
in  Animas,  New  Mexico,  in  1937. 
His  father,  Asa  Bowen,  then  a  labor 
organizer,  later  became  chief  of 
police  at  Dumas,  Texas — pop.  7,000. 
Jim  darned  near  bursts  with  pride 
when  he  speaks  of  his  father.  Don 
Lanier,  his  home-town  neighbor, 
supplies  the  details:  "The  Chief  has 
been  great  with  the  kids,  setting  up 
the    youth    center    and    things    like 


At  19,  George  Hamilton  IV  is  a 
living  skyrocket  and  ABC-Paramount 
thinks   he's    just   started    on   way    up. 


that.  Since  he  became  chief  in  1946, 
not  a  single  boy  from  Dumas  has 
been  sent  to  reform  school." 

Jim's  grandfather  taught  him  to 
play  the  uke,  but  when  Don,  whose 
father  works  for  the  Natural  Gas 
Pipe  Line  Co.,  won  a  guitar  in  a 
drawing,  Jim  started  yearning:  "I 
had  to  make  just  as  much  noise  as 
Don  did."  Later,  he  learned  to  play 
bass  and  he  wishes  he  had  done 
more  with  piano.  "The  only  time  I 
ever  tried  to  put  one  over  on  Dad 
was  when  he  paid  for  lessons  and 
I  sneaked  away  to  football  practice. 
I  think  now  he  suspected  and  sym- 
pathized, because  he's  great  for 
sports  himself.  But  I  sure  could 
use  now  the  (Continued  on  page  85) 


49 


Eve  can  be  happy  as  a 
queen,  says  Ida  Lupino— 
who  finds  it  pays  to  let 
husband  Howard  Duff 
be  "the  boss"  at  home 


By  FREDDA  BALLING 


IN  these  days  of  taxes,  tensions 
and  Miltowns,  many  a  man  is 
ready  to  blow  his  stack  at  any 
moment  .  .  .  but  psychiatrists 
point  out  that  a  good  wife  has 
saved  the  sanity  of  many  a  hus- 
band. The  more  volatile  and 
talented  the  man,  the  greater  his 
danger  .  .  .  and  in  Hollywood, 
where  daily  pressures  set  a  new 
high,  a  good  wife  really  has  to 
dedicate  herself  to  being  a  help- 
meet in  the  fullest  sense  of  the 
word. 

Hollywood  wife  Ida  Lupino  is 
regarded  by  friends  and  fellow 
workers  as  one  of  the  most  suc- 
cessful keepers-of-the-even-keel 
in  the  entertainment  industry. 
She  is  almost  literally  a  blue- 
eyed,  honey-blond  "domestic  sta- 
bilizer." It's  not  an  accidental, 
incidental  talent.  Ida  has  a  guid- 
ing theory  which  other  wives,  in 
other  areas,  have — or  can— put 
into  practice  with  equal  success. 

It  would  be  pleasant  to  an- 
nounce that  her  recipe  is  an  easy 
one  to  follow,  but  the  sobering 
truth  is  that  nothing  which  is 
completely  successful  in  practice 
•is  completely  easy — even  if  the 
principle  can  be  stated  simply, 
like  this:  Let  the  king  be  king. 
Let  each  (Continued  on  page  68) 

Ida  and  Howard  star  in  Mr.  Adams  And 
Eve,  seen  on  CBS-TV,  Fri.,  at  9  P.M. 
EDT,  as  sponsored  alternately  by  Camel 
Cigarettes    and    Colgate-Palmolive    Co. 


Where  Adam  is  KING... 


50 


ft 


' 


* 


i.  *ajua*uuAAio  aj<t*ajtlJJU« 


<€»*i 


*bi 


mSWMM    M^^K 


•.>:.-■■ 


(OB* 


a 


;     ;■  1 


Exactly  to  Howard's  specifications,  home  is  a  perfect  setting  for  him,   Ida,  Bridget, 
'Tuesday" — -and  the  famed  candlesticks  which  they  tote  to  the  studio  daily  for  TV  use! 


m 
i  i 


rfiMV  -■'  . 


Sometimes  Ida  wins  a  point,  too — she  got  Howard  to  take  up 
art  again.    Her  own. hobby  is  composing — music  and  words. 


Bridget  loves  bedtime!    Ida  invents  tales  of  "The  Fleep" 
(which  Howard  is  now  illustrating  for  a  book  they  plan). 


•'VVV:--'  '■ 


BE  A 


WARM  - 


Arlene  and  her  husband,  Martin  Gabel,  know  that 
planning  ahead  means  they  can  enjoy  party,  too. 


Their  summer  home  accommodates  four  overnight  guests 
— plus  many  others  invited  to  parties  during  weekend. 


Take  these  tips  from  Arlene  Francis 

— and  hospitality's  your  line, 

for  weekend  guests  in  your  own  home 

By  FRANCES  KISH 

Being  a  successful  summer  hostess  should 
be  fun,  according  to  Arlene  Francis. 
Dependent  on  three  basic  things: 
Organization,  preparation,  relaxation.   In  other 
words,  simply  planning  ahead,   getting  as 
much  done  beforehand  as  possible,  and 
enjoying  everything  so  much  yourself  that  it 
spills  over  to  your  guests. 

Arlene  is  hostess  and  editor  of  Home  on 
NBC -TV,   permanent   panelist   on   WJiat's   My 
Line?  on  CBS-TV,  wife  of  producer-actor 
Martin   Gabel,  mother  of  a  ten-year-old   son, 
Peter,  hostess  and    {Continued  on  page  70) 

Arlene  is  editor-in-chief  of  Home,  as  seen  on  NBC-TV. 
M-F,  10  to  11  A.M.  EDT,  under  multiple  sponsorship. 
She  is  also  a  regular  panelist  on  What's  Mv  Line?,  as 
seen  on  CBS-TV,  Sun.,  10:30  P.M.  EDT,  under  the  alter- 
nate sponsorship  of  Remington  Rand  and  Helene  Curtis. 


While  Arlene  plays  hostess  to  such  honored  grownups  as 
her  parents,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Aram  Kazanjian,  son  Peter 
takes  over  the  entertainment  of  such  youthful  guests  as 
his   friend  Jonathan    (right),   the   son    of    Bennett   Cerf. 


52 


Let  'er  roll!  A  bus  loaded  with 
talented  singers  and  musicians  on 
the  road  for  country-music  tour. 


Work  goes  on  en  route.  Here,  show 
manager  Bill  Denny  of  Nashville  is 
busy    typing    up    his    daily    report. 


Two  of  the  talented  Tunesmiths' 
group,  Sonny  Curtis  and  Bun  Wilson, 
catch  a  spot  of  shut-eye  on  the  way. 


Known  as  the  "Golden  Hillbilly," 
Goldie  Hill  is  first  to  check  in 
at  motel,  while  bus  is  unloaded. 


The  music  is  fast,  the  costumes  are 
fancy.  Red  Sovine  (with  back  to 
camera)    and    Slim    Sutberry   dress. 


In  makeshift  dressing  room  at  local 
school,  Mimi  Roman  and  Goldie  Hill 
hurry^  into    costumes    for    the    show. 


Meanwhile,  out  front,  Tunesmiths 
set  up  instruments  in  the  school 
auditorium  where  show  goes  on. 


Fascinated  early  arrival  is  bare- 
foot boy,  determined  not  to  miss 
even  one  minute  of  the  excitement. 


He's  soon  joined  by  a  crowd  of 
excited  country-music  enthusiasts, 
hanging  over  the  footlights  to  watch. 


55 


Johnny,  the  famous  Philip  Morris 
bellhop,  steps  before  the  mike 
to  "Call  for  Philip  Morris"  and 
open  the  show.  The  touring,  free 
Country  Music  Show  has  played 
to  capacity  audiences  everywhere. 


Country  and  Western  is  here 
to  stay — in  the  towns  and 
cities  of  the  South  where  it 
was  born,  and  in  the  hearts  of 
the  much  larger  audience  it  is 
earning  every  day.  Below  are 
ten  of  the  Philip  Morris  gang 
who  all  sing  out  strong  for  you. 


Biff  Collie  acts  as  master  of  ceremonies,  keeps  the  musical  high-jinks  mov- 
ing at  fast  clip.  Biff  is  renowned  as  Houston  country-and-Western  deejay. 


Slim  Sutberry 


Mimi  Roman 


Ronnie  Self 


Carl  Smith 


m^ 

w 

*' 


Best  foot  forward!   Mimi    Roman   dances,    plays,   sings — and    is    also    a    crack    rider.    For    her    skill    in    horseman- 
ship, Mimi  was  voted  Queen  of  the  Rodeo  in   1954,  when   she  appeared  at  Madison  Square  Garden,   New  York. 


Classroom  "backstage."  Soldie,  Mimi, 
Carl    Smith    relax   during    show   breaks. 


Sonny  Curtis 


Sammy  Pruett 


After   show,    Carl    Smith,    who   travels 
in  own  car,  packs  elaborate  costumes. 

Goldie  Hill 


Rest  of  troupe  board  touring  bus  for 
overnight   hop   to   next   engagement. 


Bun  Wilson 


Johnny  Sibert 


Iujo  Hands  Full  of  Lauqhter 


By  EUNICE  FIELD 


Each  time  they  move,  the  hands  of  ZaSu  Pitts  weave 
a  spell  of  magic,  and  thousands  of  new  fans  are 
drawn  toward  her  in  a  net  of  admiration  and  affec- 
tion. They  are  the  most  famous  hands  in  show  business. 
For  over  forty  years,  they  have  kept  her  name  glowing 
on  marquees  throughout  the  world,  as  a  star  of  stage  and 
screen,  and,  more  recently,  they  have  won  her  added 
acclaim  on  television.  In  her  early  dramatic  roles,  they 
were  called  "the  hands  with  a  heart."   Not  long  ago,  a 


columnist,  watching  her  play  "Nugey"  Nugent,  the 
comedy  foil  to  Gale  Storm  in  the  TV  series,  Oh!  Susan- 
na, remarked:  "She  has  a  laugh  in  every  finger.  .  .  ." 
In  spite  of  the  popular  notion,  these  hands  ordinarily 
do  not  flutter.  Very  little  about  ZaSu  "flutters."  In  per- 
son, she  is  rather  serene,  vaguely  wise  and  vaguely 
humorous,  and  both  she  and  her  hands  are  surprisingly 
firm  and  energetic.  She  thinks  of  herself  as  competent, 
and  her  friends  and  family    (Continued  on  page  74) 


ZaSu  is  "Nugey"  in  The  Gale  Storm  Show,  Oh!  Susanna,  CBS-TV,  Sat.,  9  P.M.  EDT,  sponsored  alternately  by  Nescafe  and  Helene  Curtis. 


58 


Fingers  made  her  famous — and  funny,  long  before 

TV  and  Oh !  Susanna,  but  the  heart  that  guides  them 

is  what  makes  ZaSu  Pitts  memorable — and  dear 


I  ^V^7-''/"  ,«: 


ZaSu's  hands — "a  laugh  in  every  finger" 
— are  in  motion  as  grandsons  John  and 
Ralph  meet  Roy  Roberts,  who  plays  the 
cruise  commander.  Below,  daughter  Ann 
Reynolds  hardly  looks  old  enough  to  re- 
member when  a  movie  of  her  mother's 
left   her  simply   screaming— with   fear! 


With  three  sons  and  a  baby  girl  for  Gale 
Storm  and  two  grandsons — Ralph  and  John 
Reynolds,  aged  5  and  3 — for  ZaSu,  it's  no 
wondertheytaketurns  "mothering"  each  other 
aboard  the  set  of  Ohl  Susanna.  Like  part  of 
the  family,  too,  is  Mrs.  Hal  Roach,  Sr.,  be- 
low,  wife  of  the  veteran   movie   producer. 


59 


Kathryn    Murray's    animated    face    is 
rarely  seen  in  so  quiet  a  pose  as  this. 


Tiny  Mrs.  Arthur  Murray 
has  "grown"  into  a  big 
"little  lady"  and  learned 
how  real  beauty  is  created 

By  HARRIET  SEGMAN 


Mrs.  Murray  leads  dancing  teachers  in 
ankle-rotations,    to    keep    feet    flexible. 


Teaching  two  teachers  to  teach,   Mrs.  Murray  shows 
how  to  step  back — lead  with  the  toes  in  a  straight  line. 


I'd  hate  to  live  my  childhood  over,"  said  the 
slim,  sparkling-eyed  lady.  "I  was  a  sallow, 
tiny,  dark-haired  child — always  the  smallest, 
always  the  homeliest."  Strange  to  hear  this  from 
the  charming  television  star  with  a  world-wide 
empire  of  450  dancing  studios.  Clearly,  a  great 
deal  of  "blossoming  out"  has  happened  to  Mrs. 
Arthur  Murray  since  those  early  days.  Actually, 
Kathryn  Murray  made  the  changes  happen.  "I 
determined  to  stop  being  background,"  she  says. 
Today,  an  artist  on  the  ballroom  floor,  she 
moves  through  the  rest  of  her  life  also  in  a 
lilting  manner.  She  walks  so  buoyantly,  her 
whole  body  seems  to   (Continued  on  page  65) 


fid 


(Continued  jrom  page  37) 
Roger's  a  lot  better.  Mike,  I'm  wonder- 
fully lucky!  When  Mary  was  going  to 
have  little  Billy,  Roger  was  in  the  vet- 
erans' hospital  with  a  heart  attack,  and 
she  expected  any  minute  to  hear  he'd 
simply  stopped  living!  Instead  of  being 
useless  and  happy,  like  me.  .  .  ."  She  bit 
again  into  the  pear  and  nodded  at  it. 
"This  is  perfect!  But  the  doctor  says  Roger 
is  really  coming  along.  If  he  takes  things 
easy,  and  doesn't  get  emotionally  wrought 
up,  he  may  live  as  long  as  anybody  else. 
Isn't  that  wonderful?  Roger  said  he's  been 
counting  up  to  ten  ten  times  when  he 
feels  he's  getting  angry.  He  asked  the 
doctor  if  he  could  cut  down  to  nine!" 

Mike  had  more  reason  to  be  happy 
than  most,  and  more  reason  than  he  knew. 
At  that  very  instant,  for  example,  Mary 
Harper  had  reason  to  feel  less  than  bliss- 
ful. She'd  visited  Sara  during  the  after- 
noon. It  was  an  honest  visit.  She  was  very 
fond  of  Sara  and  of  Mike.  But  the  visit 
to  Sara  also  was  a  cover-up  for  being 
out,  while  she  went  to  another  place— 
a  nursing  home — and  very  politely  paid 
a  not-small,  not-excessive  sum  of  money 
to  one  Clayton  Pike.  He  and  his  wife  ran 
the  nursing  home,  and  he'd  been  collect- 
ing that  money  from  Mary  for  a  good  many 
years.  His  wife  pretended  to  know  noth- 
ing about  it,  but  she'd  arranged  it  all. 

Mary  paid  the  blackmail  auite  com- 
posedly. There  was  no  use  getting  upset. 
Her  husband  Roger  was  coming  along 
nicely  now,  but  he  had  to  be  shielded 
from  things  that  might  cause  violent  emo- 
tion. He  tried  hard,  but  his  temperament 
was  hardly  calm.  And  he  had  to  be  calm. 
So  Mary  paid  blackmail.  If  he  ever  found 
out  why,  she'd  be  a  widow  and  little 
Billy  would  be  worse  than  fatherless. 

When  Mary  left  the  office  of  the  nursing 
home,  however,  the  subject  came  up  im- 
mediately. Clayton  Pike  closed  the  door 
behind  her.  He  crossed  the  office  and 
opened  another  door.  "That  was  Mary 
Harper,"  he  said.  "You  were  listening  . . ." 

The  girl  behind  the  open  door  smiled 
blandly.  "Naturally!"  She  entered  the 
office,  lithe  and  consciously  attractive, 
even  with  Clayton  Pike  as  the  only  man 
around — and  he  was  not  a  prize.  But 
though  she  looked  at  him  steadily  enough, 
her  eyes  were  restless.  "She  adopted  this 
brat  you  tell  me  about — the  brat  I'm  to 
weep  over  and  claim  is  my  own.  Let  me 
see  your  file  again." 

Clayton  Pike  produced  a  file  envelope 
from  a  desk  drawer.  He  took  other  en- 
velopes out  of  it,  large  and  small,  some 
of  official  size  and  some  quite  small. 
The  girl  inspected  them  with  a  singular 
cold  detachment,  as  if  already  familiar 
with  them  but  looking  for  flaws  in  what 
they  said.  She  looked  up.  "The  really 
important  one  isn't  here." 

Pike  brought  out  a  new,  larger  en- 
velope with  a  British  stamp  on  it.  He 
handed  it  over.  The  girl  read  its  contents. 
It  was  not  like  an  American  business 
letter.  It  used  the  stately  phrasing  of 
someone  who  would  call  himself  a  solic- 
itor instead  of  a  lawyer.  It  was  addressed 
to  a  Mrs.  Bayard  Smythe.  The  firm  of 
solicitors  informed  her  that  a  reversion 
in  interest  having  matured  in  favor  of  her 
late  husband,  it  was  their  duty  to  in- 
quire if  Mr.  Smythe  had  left  issue — 
children.  If  so,  a  very  considerable  sum 
awaited  them.  If  there  had  been  children, 
now  deceased,  the  sum  would  be  due  to 
Mrs.  Smythe.  They  were  addressing  her 
at  her  last  known  address,  and  they  re- 
mained her  most  obedient  servants.   .  .   . 

"How  much?"  she  said  crisply.  He  told 


The  Edge  Of  Night 

her.  He'd  checked  on  the  whole  matter, 
privately. 

"You've  seen  Mary  Harper,"  said  Pike 
exuberantly.  "You  know  you  can  handle 
her!  You  see  what  I've  got — marriage 
certificate,  letters,  even  a  snapshot  of  the 
boy's  father  and  when  and  where  he  died. 
You're  Mrs.  Smythe.  With  the  boy — 
everything  regular,  there! — you're  a  rich 
woman.  And  I'm  a  rich  man!  Smart?" 

"I'd  guess,"  said  the  girl  acidly,  "that 
you  were  lucky.  How'd  you  happen  to  be 
set  up  for  a  break  like  this?" 

"The  woman  died  here,"  he  said  zest- 
fully. "And,  in  this  business,  sometimes  a 
ready-made  new  identity  can  be  sold  for 
a  nice  price.  So  I  kept  her  papers  and 
trinkets.  She  had  no  friends.  Nobody  even 
to  claim  her  body  for  burial!  So  I  simply 
changed  the  records  here  from  Smythe  to 
Jones,  and  I  could  supply  an  inquirer  with 
a  name  and  a  past  and  a  marriage  cer- 
tificate and  a  conveniently  dead  husband 
on  request.  As  it  turns  out,  I  can  even 
supply  the  heir  these  Englishmen  are  so 
anxious  to  find!" 

1  he  girl  smiled  without  mirth.  "But  it's 
going  to  be  tricky.  Children  know  I  don't 
like  them,  usually.  The  boy  won't  be 
pleased.  And  you  explained  that  this 
Mary  Harper  wanted  the  baby  so  her  hus- 
band wouldn't  die  of  a  heart  stoppage 
when  he  learned  he  wasn't  a  father  any 
more.  You  say  he's  still  not  too  healthy. 
And  I'm  here  to  take  the  boy  away.  May- 
be she  likes  the  brat.  Certainly  she's  been 
paying  to  keep  her  husband  from  finding 
out  he  isn't  the  father  he  believes.  When 
we  demand  the  boy  back,  she's  going  to 
be  desperate!  And  a  desperate  woman — " 

Clayton  Pike  had  an  answer  for  that. 
Mary  Harper  would  know  she  had  no 
case.  She'd  never  adopted  the  boy  legally. 
She'd  lived  a  lie.  She  wouldn't  dare 
fight.  .  .  . 

The  girl  who  was  to  impersonate  a 
child's  dead  mother  looked  at  him  with 
unenchanted  eyes.  Her  name  was  really 
Irene  Egan,  and  there  was  not  much  that 
enchanted  her.  She'd  had  a  strange  life, 
that  Mary  Harper  couldn't  imagine. 
There'd  been  trouble  over  men  in  her 
life.  There'd  been  thefts  that  didn't  get 
her  what  she  wanted.  She  was  hard  and 
selfish.  Honesty  was  a  weakness  to  her. 

"When  do  we  start?"  she  asked  coldly. 

And  he  did  put  things  in  motion  at  noon 
next  day,  with  a  phone  call  to  Mary  Har- 
per. His  manner  was  agitated.  He  said 
that  something  very  upsetting  had  hap- 
pened. He  begged  Mrs.  Harper  to  come 
immediately  to  the  nursing  home.  It  was 
of  the  utmost  importance.  It  was  a  matter 
of  life  or  death. 

She  couldn't  imagine  what  had  hap- 
pened. Roger  was  improving,  and  Billy 
was  thriving,  nowadays.  She  did  not  look 
for  better  fortune  than  only  to  have  her 
husband  and  her  son — he  was  her  son, 
now,  by  every  tie  but  that  of  being  born 
to  her — and  she  couldn't  see  any  motive 
that  could  move  even  Clayton  Pike  to 
harm  her.  Anything  he  did  would  lose 
him  the  money  he'd  been  collecting  for 
so  long.  .  .  . 

Mike  was  deep  in  the  paper  work  that 
is  so  great  a  part  of  an  organized  investi- 
gation. When  Willy  came  in,  Mike  looked 
up  and  then  turned.  Willy  looked  pleased. 
"I  checked  out  the  case  I  told  you  about 
yesterday,"  he  said  with  the  crustiness 
with  which  he  expressed  pleasure.  "It's 
all  right." 

Mike  put  down  his  papers,  to  give  full 
attention. 

"I  won't  tell  you  the  name,"  said  Willy, 
with   dignity.     "But  there   was   a   woman 


who  had  a  baby.  Her  husband  was  ill, 
and  he'd  set  his  heart  on  having  a  son. 
He  got  it.  It  was  a  tonic  to  him,  when  he 
heard  his  son  was  born.  What  would  hap- 
pen if  the  baby  died?  You  figure  what 
his  wife  thought.  The  kid  did  die,  only 
two  weeks  old.  But  his  wife  couldn't  let 
him  know.  He'd  die,  too!  So  she  got  an- 
other baby.  That's  all.  No  case  for  the 
office  here.  And,"  he  said  proudly,  "no- 
body knows  that  story  but  me  and  the 
woman.  I  got  it  in  scraps  and  pieces  here 
and  there.    It  fits.     It's  right." 

"Where'd  she  get  the  baby?"  asked 
Mike. 

"That  fits,  too.  Baby  born  right  in 
town  here,  a  day  before  the  other.  .  Two 
weeks  later,  his  mother  died.  A  mother 
without  a  baby,  and  a  baby  without  a 
mother.  Hold  on!"  Willy  held  up  his 
hand.  "The  baby's  mother  hadn't  a  friend 
in  the  world.  No  one  even  claimed  her 
body.  The  city  buried  her.  It's  all  in 
the  records  down  at  the  City  Hall.  I  don't 
know  what  records  say  anywhere  else,  but 
there  they're  right!  Is  there  any  reason 
to  go  into  that? 

"Besides,"  said  Willy  crossly,  "the  kid 
plays  a  good  game  of  baseball,  for  a  kid. 
He  might  make  the  big  leagues  some  day. 
It'd  be  a  dirty  trick  to  take  away  the  name 
he's  got,  and  make  him  go  back  to  the 
one  he  was  born  with.  Can  you  imagine 
a  big-league  player  named  Smythe? 
S-m-y-t-h-e?     It's  ridiculous!" 

Mike  shrugged.  Mike  was  incorrupti- 
ble. There  are  some  things  an  Assistant 
District  Attorney  can  legitimately  fail  to 
inauire  into.  "I  never  heard  a  word,"  said 
Mike,  drily.  "You  never  mentioned  it. 
If  I'm  an  accessory.  .  .  ." 

"Don't  tell  your  wife,"  Willy  added. 
"Women  try  to  guess  things  out." 

"She'd  take  your  word,  anyhow,"  said 
Mike.  "She  wouldn't  believe  you'd  do 
anything  wrong.  Those  pears  you  got 
her  just  hit  the  spot!" 

Wilhelmus  Bogart  Bryan  III  stood  up 
with  an  air  of  indifference.  "Women'd 
get  along  better,"  he  said  crustily,  "if  they 
just  listened  to  the  District  Attorney's 
office.  Your  wife,  now — she  wanted  pears 
and  I  knew  where  to  find  'em.  A  lot  of 
women  with  lot  worse  troubles  would  be 
better  off  if  they  just  came  here!"  .  .  . 

Mike  could  hardly  guess,  then,  how  good 
an  idea  that  might  have  been  for  Mary 
Harper.  At  that  very  moment,  she  stood, 
ashen-faced,  confronting  the  girl  who 
said  she  was  Billy's  mother. 

"I'm  sorry  for  you,  Mrs.  Harper,"  said 
Irene  Egan  coldly,  "but  I  want  my  baby! 
I  was  desperate  when  I  let  him  go.  I 
thought  it  was  best  for  him.  If  Mr.  Pike 
let  you  think  I  had  died,  that  is  not  my 
affair.  I'm  alive.  I  want  my  baby!  I 
can  do  more  for  him  now  than  you  can, 
since  he's  come  into  his  inheritance.  And, 
Mrs.  Harper,  I'm  going  to  have  my  baby!" 

Mary  Harper  said  in  an  anguished  whis- 
per: "We — love  him.  And — if  he  goes 
away,  Roger's  heart  will  stop.  .  .  ."  Her 
voice  faltered  into  silence. 

It  did  not  seem  that  the  District  Attor- 
ney's office  could  help  her  then.  Mike 
would  want  to,  of  course.  But — if  Roger 
heard  of  such  an  attempt  to  take  Billy 
away,  even  though  it  was  defeated.  .  .  . 

Mary  Harper  clenched  her  hands.  She 
felt  herself  growing  more  and  more  des- 
perate as  the  cruelty  of  the  trap  became 
more  clear.  A  trap  which  must  inexo- 
rably close  upon  those  she  held  most  J 
dear  .  .  .  her  son — he  was  her  son!  .  .  .  her 
husband  .  .  .  and  even  those  good  friends 
from  whom  she  had  withheld  her  lonely 
secret.   ... 

61 


EVERY  DAY  IS 
LADIES  DAY 

The  better  half  of  Don  Stone's  audience 
at  KSCJ  is  the  fairer  half 


Famed  skating  star  Sonja  Henie  visits  Don  during  Starlight 
Room  Party  broadcast.     Listeners  take  turns  guesting,  too. 


62 


Don's  and  Jean's   homemade   ice   cream   may  spoil   baby 
Deanna's   dinner,    but   big   sister   Donna   guesses   it   won't. 


"Gathering  moss"  in  Sioux  City,  a  busy  and  versatile 
young  radio  man  waited  till  the  networks  came  to  him. 


To  Sioux  City  listeners,  it  seemed  but  a  "stone's 
throw"  from  Station  KSCJ  news,  music  and 
talk  to  more  of  the  same  on  network.  But,  the  Stone 
in  question  "gathered  moss"  instead — waiting  for  a 
network  chance  that  would  enable  him,  at  the 
same  time,  to  stay  put  in  Sioux  City.  He  got  it,  finally, 
when  he  subbed  for  Breakfast  Club's  Don 
McNeill.  .  .  .  Don  Stone  of  KSCJ  has  etched  his 
personality  into  the  area's  listening  habits  with  the 
brightness  and  durability  of  a  diamond.  Starlight 
Room  Party,  heard  Monday  through  Friday  at  3:30 
P.M.,  is  a  popular  audience-participation  half  hour. 
Shopper's  Matinee,  heard  for  the  last  eleven  years, 
from  4  to  5  P.M.  each  weekday,  caters  to  a  full  circle 
of  musical  tastes.  Don  handles  both  ayem  and  noon 
newscasts  and  special  sports  events.  Frequently  viewed 
on  KTrV-TV,  Don  has  plenty  of  behind-the-scenes 
work  as  new  TV  Program  Director.  .  .  .  An  Iowan  all 
his  life,  Don  was  born  in  Whiting,  went  to  school  in 
Sergeant  Bluff  and  college  at  Morningside  in  Sioux 
City.  Since  then,  his  outstanding  contributions  to 
good  causes  have  brought  him  high  recognition — and, 
at  times,  adventure  of  a  sort.  Once,  in  order  to  raise 
funds  for  the  United  Campaign,  he  allowed  himself 
to  be  thrown  into  jail  on  trumped-up  charges,  so 
that  listeners  would  "bail  him  out"  with  Red 
Feather  pledges.  The  $1300  the  charities  collected 
was  fine  but,  Don  recalls,  "Even  if  you're  there 
voluntarily,  those  bars  just  don't  look  right."  Another 
"award"  took  the  popular  ladies'  hour  programmer 
quite  by  surprise.  In  1953,  the  Sioux  City  Journal 
nominated  him  "Honorary  Woman  of  Achievement." 
At  home,  it's  a  pleasantly  feminine  society,  too. 
Don's  wife  Jean  is  devoted  to  homemaking  and  to 
their  two  daughters — Donna  Jean,  3,  and  Deanna 
Lynn,  going  on  one.  Lately,  little  Donna  has 
solved  the  coincidence  of  Daddy's  morning  tran- 
scriptions with  his  breakfast  "presence."  More 
fortunate  than  most,  she  reasons,   "I  have  two 
daddies — one  at  home  and  one  on  the  radio.".  .  .  Out 
for  an  evening  of  relaxation,  Don  plays  bridge, 
but  not  "for  blood."  He  prefers  "Dingstadt" — an 
"obscure  Swedish  expert" — to  the  Culbertson  or 
Goren   methods.    "More   'obscure'   than    'expert,' ' 
twinkles  Don,  "Dingstadt  is  really  a  'master'  of  my 
own  invention.  I  quote  him,  and  you'd  be  surprised 
how  many  stuffed  shirts  nod  wisely  and  say,  'Oh,  yes 
of  course,  Dingstadt!'  "...  Spoofing  aside,  Don 
regards  the  letters  and  calls  of  congratulations  on 
the  Breakfast  Club  break  "the  most  rewarding 
experience  in  a  lifetime  of  big  moments."  Don's 
followers  maintain  his  "biggest  moments"  lie  ahead 
— really  just  a  Stone's  throw. 


B 


m 


.^ 


The  Boones  Go  to  Hollywood 


(Continued  from  page  42) 
most  thrilling  time  Pat  and  I  have  spent 
since  we  were  married.     We've  had  a  lot 
of  exciting  things  happen  to  us,  but  never 
so  much  in  so  little  time. 

Pat,  of  course,  came  to  Hollywood  to 
appear  in  "Bernardine,"  being  filmed  on 
the  20th  Century-Fox  lot.  He  was  due 
out  here  early  in  February,  and  we  de- 
cided it  would  be  a  good  time  to  escape 
the  East  Coast  slush-and-snow  routine 
and  have  a  family  holiday  in  the  sun  in 
California.  As  it  turned  out,  it  was  a 
fairly  hectic  way  to  have  a  holiday — and 
the  two  months  we  had  originally  planned 
to  spend  out  here  have  stretched  to  six. 
But  I'd  not  have  missed  it  for  the  world. 

We  were  quite  a  party,  taking  off  from 
New  York.  There  were  Pat  and  myself, 
our  three  little  girls — Cherry,  Lindy  and 
Debby — and  our  Eva,  who  is  practically 
one  of  the  family.  (She's  taken  care  of 
me  since  I  was  a  little  girl,  and  now  she's 
helping  me  take  care  of  our  little  girls.) 

.Landing  at  International  Airport  in  Los 
Angeles  was  certainly  a  suitable  intro- 
duction to  the  chaos  which  was  to  fol- 
low for  the  next  two  months.  It  was  sort 
of  like  diving  off  the  high  board.  We  just 
stepped  out  the  door  of  that  plane,  and 
were  almost  literally  "in  over  our 
heads" — surrounded  by  friends  and  fam- 
ily and  fans. 

Because,  you  see,  we  have  more  family 
and  friends  in  the  Los  Angeles  area  than 
we  have  anywhere  else,  except  possibly 
in  Nashville!  Someone  wrote  somewhere 
that  I'd  said  I  dreaded  the  trip  to  Los 
Angeles  because  I  was  afraid  we  wouldn't 
find  as  many  friends  there  as  we  had  in 
Leonia,  New  Jersey,  where  we  live  most 
of  the  time.  But  that  wasn't  true  at  all. 
In  Leonia — outside  of  the  Carletons,  the 
Desederios  and  the  Youngs,  who  live  in 
our  neighborhood,  and  Carmel  Quinn, 
who  fives  a  few  blocks  away — we  have 
very  few  intimate  acquaintances. 

But  in  the  Hollywood  area — that's  some- 
thing else  again!  My  Grandmother  Over- 
stake  lives  out  in  Inglewood,  and  my  sister 
Jenny  lives  with  Grammy.  My  Uncle 
Dick  fives  in  Mafibu.  And  I  have  three 
aunts  out  here.  One  aunt  is  only  nine- 
teen days  older  than  I  am,  and  had  her 
third  child  in  April.  The  whole  gang  of 
us  is  young — my  grandmother  is  only 
fifty-nine.  We  have  lots  of  fun  together, 
so,  naturally,  I  was  looking  forward  to 
seeing  them  as  much  as  I  was  to  seeing 
California. 

We  have  a  lot  of  friends  who  have  moved 
to  California,  too,  so  that  reception  at 
the  airport  was  sort  of  like  "old  home 
week" — everybody  was  there  to  greet  us. 
Including  about  three  thousand  fans,  I 
think.  People  in  the  Los  Angeles  area 
seem  to  be  a  lot  more  celebrity-conscious 
than  the  folks  back  in  New  York.  Pat 
and  I  could  go  most  anywhere  in  New 
York,  and  very  few  people  would  even 
turn  to  look  at  us.  But  we  soon  found 
out  we  couldn't  go  anywhere  in  Holly- 
wood without  being  stopped  for  auto- 
graphs or  pleasant  words  from  fans. 

But  I  still  haven't  left  the  airport,  have 
I?  We  landed  about  four-thirty  on  a 
Friday  afternoon.  But,  by  the  time  we'd 
piled  the  luggage  into  a  station  wagon 
and  sent  it  off  (traveling  with  three  little 
girls,  we'd  brought  enough  equipment 
along  to  outfit  an  African  safari),  and 
climbed  into  the  limousine  the  studio  had 
sent  for  us,  it  must  have  been  past  five- 
thirty.  It  was  after  six  when  we  arrived 
at  Del  Capri,  the  apartment  hotel  in 
Westwood  where  we'd  reserved  two  ad- 
joining   three-room    suites.     There    were 


photographers  trailing  us  all  the  way,  and 
meeting  us   at  the  apartment. 

The  children  were  really  tired — it  may 
have  been  six  o'clock  Los  Angeles  time, 
but  they  were  still  operating  on  Eastern 
time,  and  it  was  nine  by  their  "clocks." 
And  they'd  been  up  since  before  six  that 
morning.  I  wasn't  exactly  fresh  as  a  daisy 
myself,  so  I  was  pretty  horrified  when  I 
heard  that  we  were  invited  to  go  out  to 
a  welcoming  dinner  party  at  Romanoff's, 
as  soon  as  we  could  change.  Our  host 
was  to  be  Randy  Wood,  president  of  Dot 
Records.  If  I  hadn't  known  what  an  un- 
derstanding fellow  he  is,  I'd  probably  have 
forced  myself,  and  gone  to  dinner.  But  I 
was  too  near  exhaustion,  so  I  begged  off, 
and  Pat  went  on  to  the  dinner  party  alone. 

In  a  way,  I  was  glad.  It  gave  me  a 
chance  to  get  calmed  down,  get  the  chil- 
dren settled,  and  do  a  little  unpacking. 
I'd  probably  have  been  ill  if  I'd  gone 
out — I  was  that  weary.  But,  when  Pat 
came  home  and  told  me  Frank  Sinatra 
had  been  there,  and  I  realized  I'd  missed 
the  chance  to  meet  him,  I  almost  doubted 
the  wisdom  of  my  decision.  We  got  to 
meet  him  later,  though. 

Oh,  yes — one  thing  I  almost  forgot!  As 
I  mentioned,  we  had  figured  that  Febru- 
ary would  be  a  wonderful  time  to  get  out 
to  California,  since  some  of  the  winter's 
worst  weather  often  hits  the  East  Coast 
during  February  and  March.  So  what 
happens?  We  land  in  Los  Angeles  during 
the  week  when  they've  had  their  first 
snowfall  in  years!  As  a  gag,  someone 
had  dreamed  up  a  huge  cardboard  snow- 
man and  planted  it  on  the  lawn  at  the 
apartment  building,  with  a  "Welcome,  Pat 
Boone"  sign  in  its  hand.  For  a  few  short 
minutes,  we  had  doubts  about  the  cele- 
brated California  climate,  I'll  admit.  But 
the  snow  and  the  cold  were  truly  "un- 
usual." In  a  few  days,  we  were  soaking 
up  sun  and  warmth — 80  degrees  of  it. 

1  he  day  after  we  arrived,  Saturday, 
Pat  had  a  recording  date  at  the  Dot  Record 
studios.  That  gave  me  a  chance  to  get 
unpacked.  Eva  and  I  explored  the  neigh- 
borhood a  little,  found  the  handiest  super- 
market  and   laundry — that   sort   of   thing. 

Sunday,  we  went  to  church  in  near-by 
Santa  Monica,  and  that  evening  Pat  was 
scheduled  to  appear  at  a  Youth  Rally  at 
Pepperdine  College.  Late  that  afternoon, 
we  stopped  off  briefly  at  a  party  Hedda 
Hopper  was  giving  for  Merle  Oberon  and 
her  fiance — the  invitation  had  been  handed 
to  us  just  as  we  got  off  the  plane  Friday. 

I'm  afraid  we  sort  of  took  Miss  Hopper 
by  surprise.  When  she  came  over  and 
asked  us  what  she  could  get  us  to  drink, 
we  requested  either  fruit  juice  or  soda 
pop,  and  I  guess  Miss  Hopper  doesn't  get 
many  such  requests  from  her  guests.  But, 
nevertheless,  she  complimented  us  on  our 
stand  as  teetotallers. 

The  next  evening,  I  got  a  chance  to 
cash  in  my  "rain  check"  on  that  dinner  at 
Romanoff's  which  I'd  missed  Saturday 
evening.  We  took  Louella  Parsons  to  din- 
ner there,  and  later  we  went  back  to  her 
home  and  sat  around  the  living  room 
listening  to  records. 

A  few  evenings  later,  we  went  to  the 
Photoplay  Awards  dinner.  I'll  confess  I 
was  in  a  bit  of  a  state,  wondering  what 
to  wear  to  this  one — after  all,  I'd  never 
been  to  a  big  Hollywood  party  before, 
and  hadn't  the  fuzziest  notion  whether 
one  went  in  a  long  formal  or  a  short  one. 
I'd  brought  both  along,  and,  on  the  advice 
of  a  friend,  I  wore  a  short  formal  and  a 
faille  evening  coat,  with  a  tulle  stole  sort 
of  draped  over  my  head.  I  needn't  have 
worried — only  the  big  stars  who  were  to 


be  in  the  limelight  were  in  ball  gowns. 

This  is  one  of  the  gala  events  of  the 
year  in  Hollywood,  and  there  were  so 
many  fabulous  people  there  that  I  could 
hardly  eat  my  dinner  for  checking  up  on 
who  was  sitting  where.  The  evening's 
biggest  thrill  was  having  some  of  these 
people  come  to  our  table  and  ask  Pat  for 
his  autograph!  Alan  Ladd  wanted  Pat's 
autograph  for  his  teenagers  at  home,  and 
so  did  Doris  Day  and  Kirk  Douglas.  Here 
I'd  been  bug-eyed  about  seeing  these 
stars,  and  they  were  giving  us  the  celeb- 
rity treatment! 

The  place  was  crawling  with  big  names 
— Ginger  Rogers  and  Jacques  Bergerac, 
Eddie  Fisher  and  Debbie  Reynolds  (we 
knew  them  already,  having  met  them 
back  East),  Rock  Hudson,  Jane  Russell — 
dozens  of  them.  And,  of  course,  as  Pat 
said,  "Probably  the  most  important  peo- 
ple here  are  the  ones  whose  faces  we 
don't  recognize!"  The  studio  executives, 
producers,  directors — the  big  wheels. 

I  suppose  a  lot  of  people  out  in  Holly- 
wood wonder  why  I  was  so  impressed 
with  celebrities.  After  all,  as  everybody 
probably  knows  by  now,  my  dad  is  Red 
Foley,  who  used  to  have  the  Grand  Ole 
Opry  program  on  radio  out  of  Nashville, 
and  now  has  Ozark  Jubilee  on  ABC-TV 
and  The  Red  Foley  Show  on  ABC  Radio, 
from  Springfield,  Missouri.  For  years, 
Dad's  programs  have  been  practically  a 
national  institution,  and  he's  always  had 
big-name  guest  stars.  So  folks  figure  I 
should  be  accustomed  to  rubbing  elbows 
with  famous  people. 

But  that  isn't  true  at  all.  Actually,  I 
rarely  ever  met  any  of  the  celebrities  who 
appeared  on  Dad's  shows.  And,  even  if 
Red  Foley  was  a  household  name  all 
over  the  country,  he  was  just  "Dad"  to  me. 

Another  thing  people  out  there  were  al- 
ways asking  me:  "How  does  it  feel  to  be 
married  to  a  man  all  the  girls  in  the 
country  are  drooling  over?"  So  far,  I  can 
honestly  say  it  hasn't  fazed  me.  (It  only 
confirms  what  I've  known  for  years — the 
kind  of  a  fellow  Pat  is,  I  mean.) 

I  suppose  being  able  to  keep  a  little 
detached,  this  way,  is  something  I  did 
pick  up  from  growing  up  as  Red  Foley's 
daughter.  He  was  always  such  an  idol  to 
his  fans  and  I  remember,  after  Mother 
died,  he  got  ever  so  many  letters  of  pro- 
posal. The  women  who  wrote  those  letters 
were  completely  convinced  they  would 
make  him  wonderful  wives,  and  could 
mother  us   children. 

So  far,  Pat  hasn't  had  any  letters  of 
proposal.  But  I  think  the  audiences  Dad 
reached,  and  the  ones  interested  in  Pat, 
are  quite  different.  Dad's  followers,  who 
love  country-and-Western  music,  are  very 
down  to  earth,  and  apt  to  be  more  direct 
and  forward.  Pat's  fans  love  pop  music 
and,  though  they're  interested  in  his  per- 
sonal life,  I  truly  don't  think  they  identify 
themselves  with  it  in  any  way. 

One  of  the  big  thrills  for  me,  out  in 
Hollywood,  was  going  with  Pat  every 
day  to  watch  the  "rushes"  of  the  scenes 
they'd  been  shooting.  Since  I'd  never 
even  been  through  the  main  gate  of  a 
Hollywood  movie  studio  before,  naturally, 
I  got  a  boot  out  of  being  in  on  this  part  of 
picture -making.  I  guess  the  folks  around 
the  studio  must  have  thought  we  were  a 
couple  of  characters,  the  way  we  worked 
things  out! 

Late    every    afternoon,    Pat   would    call 
me  as  soon  as  the  last  scene  had  been  shot,    J 
and  tell  me  about  what  time  they'd  start 
running  off  the  "rushes."  I'd  hop  into  the    R 
station   wagon    and   tear   off  for  the   Fox 
lot.  I'd   drive  right  to  his  dressing  room, 

63 


and  he'd  be  waiting  outside  in  his  white 
Corvette.  As  soon  as  he  saw  me  driving 
up,  he'd  signal  me  with  a  wave,  and  give 
the  Corvette  the  gun.  Off  he'd  streak  across 
the  lot,  with  me  in  the  station  wagon  right 
behind  him. 

You  see,  they  never  knew  until  the  very 
last  minute  iust  where  the  "rushes"  would 
be  screened,  and  there  are  projection 
rooms  dotted  all  over  the  lot.  This  was 
the  only  way  we  could  figure  out  for  him 
to  let  me  know  which  projection  room  to 
go  to.  There  wasn't  even  time  for  him  to 
slide  in  behind  the  wheel  of  the  station 
wagon.  As  it  was,  we'd  always  get  to  the 
door  just  as  the  lights  dimmed  and  the 
screening  started. 

Of  course,  Pat  was  busy  all  day  long, 
five  days  a  week.  Weekends  were  often 
taken  up  with  personal  appearances  for 
special  award  dinners,  charity  drives,  that 
sort  of  thing.  And  I  know  lots  of  people 
thought  I  was  probably  getting  pretty 
bored,  sitting  around  all  day  in  that 
furnished  apartment,  waiting  for  Pat  to 
come  home  from  the  studio. 

But  anyone  who  has  three  small  chil- 
dren will  understand  why  it  was  I  never 
had  time  to  get  bored.  Particularly  since 
we  were  living  in  an  apartment  building. 
The  girls  were  used  to  a  yard,  and  a  place 
where  they  could  run.  There  wasn't  much 
yard  at  Del  Capri,  although  there  was  a 
nice  swimming  pool.  But  a  swimming 
pool  and  toddlers  can  be  a  harrowing  com- 
bination, so  generally,  we  took  the  girls  to 
a  playground,  or  a  park,  or  the  zoo,  every 
morning.  We'd  have  our  lunch  at  a  drive- 
in,  which  the  girls  adored.  And,  before 
we  knew  it,  it  would  be  time  to  go  back  to 
the  apartment  for  their  naps.  While  they 
were  sleeping,  Eva  and  I  would  catch  up 
on  little  household  chores — laundry  and 
that  sort  of  thing.  Then,  in  no  time  at  all, 
Pat  would  be  calling  from  the  studio, 
summoning  me  to  those  "rushes."  The  days 
went  very  fast. 

Also,  I  had  the  good  luck  to  have  a 
friend,  Nancy  Knutzen,  living  near  by. 
Nancy's  husband,  Bob,  is  chief  copy  boy 
at  the  Los  Angeles  Examiner — they  met 
a  little  over  a  year  ago,  when  they  both 
took  an  ocean  trip  on  a  freighter.  I  got  in 
quite  a  few  morning  coffee  sessions  with 
Nancy. 

Ihere  was  another,  considerably  more 
elegant-type  session  Nancy  and  Bob 
shared  with  us.  That  was  our  first  visit 
to  the  Cocoanut  Grove. 

It  all  started  one  afternoon  when  Harry 
Belafonte  dropped  in  on  the  "Bernardine" 
set  at  Fox,  to  ask  for  Pat's  autograph  for 
his  daughter.  While  they  were  chatting, 
Pat  mentioned  that  we'd  wanted  to  catch 
Harry's  show  at  the  Cocoanut  Grove,  but 
had  heard  it  was  all  sold  out  for  his  en- 
tire run.  Harry  volunteered  to  see  what 
he  could  do  to  get  us  a  table — and,  sure 
enough,  a  few  days  later,  we  got  the  word 
that  we  had  a  reservation  for  a  table  for 
four  that  evening.  So  we  took  Nancy  and 
Bob  with  us. 

And  what  a  red-carpet  treatment  we 
got!  We  were  ushered  to  a  table  smack- 
dab  at  ringside,  and  the  waiters  and  the 
maitre  de  treated  us  like  our  names  were 
Elizabeth  and  Philip,  instead  of  Shirley 
and  Pat.  And  the  thing  that  really  got  me 
—the  management  picked  up  the  check. 
A  couple  of  years  ago,  when  we  thought 
wistfully  that  it  would  be  nice  if  some 
kind,  solvent  individual  would  take  us  to 
a  good  place  to  eat,  nobody  did.  But — 
now  that  we  can  manage  to  pay  the  check 
— somebody  else  does  it! 
J  The  weekend  we  spent  at  Palm  Springs 
was  much  like  that  evening  at  the  Cocoa- 
nut  Grove.  We  stayed  at  the  Desert  Inn, 
had  the  governor's  suite,  and  people  just 


64 


couldn't  do  enough  for  us.  And,  of  course, 


everywhere  we  went,  there  were  photog- 
raphers and  fans  tagging  along  behind. 

We  spent  several  hours  one  morning  at 
Harry  Brand's  home  there  in  Palm  Springs 
—he's  head  of  the  20th  Century-Fox  stu- 
dio publicity  department.  I  think  that  was 
the  very  best  time  of  all.  We  just  lounged 
in  the  sun  and  swam  in  the  pool.  But, 
for  a  couple  of  blissful  hours,  we  were 
completely  alone — just  the  family,  with 
no  outsiders  around.  This  has  become  a 
luxury. 

Lying  there  in  the  sun  at  Palm  Springs, 
being  deliriously  lazy  even  if  only  for  a 
few  hours,  I  couldn't  help  thinking  how 
different  this  move  of  ours  from  New 
York  to  Hollywood  was  from  the  move 
we'd  made  from  Nashville  to  New  York. 
And  that  move  was  only  two  years  ago. 

Pat  was  already  in  New  York  at  that 
time,  going  to  school,  and  Cherry  and  I 
had  stayed  behind  in  Nashville.  Then, 
shortly  before  Lindy  was  due  to  be  born, 
the  doctor  told  me  that — because  of  the 
Rh  blood  factor  involved — there  was  a 
chance  we  might  lose  the  baby. 

1  thought  it  over  for  quite  a  while,  and 
decided  I'd  go  to  New  York  to  have  the 
baby.  It  meant  inconvenience — I  realized 
this.  Pat  was  living  in  a  small  hotel  off 
Times  Square,  and  the  quarters  were 
hardly  what  you  could  call  luxurious.  But 
all  I  could  think  of  was,  if  there  was  going 
to  be  any  trouble,  I  wanted  to  be  with 
Pat  when  it  happened.  Pat's  mother  under- 
stood, and  volunteered  to  keep  Cherry 
for  us  for  a  while. 

So  I  went  to  New  York,  and  we  lived 
(existed  is  a  better  word,  I  suppose)  for 
several  weeks  in  that  miserable  little  hotel 
room.  Then  Pat  had  to  go  out  to  Chicago 
to  keep  a  recording  date.  That  would  be 
the  same  weekend  the  baby  was  expected! 
Happily,  Pat  was  able  to  finish  his  work 
in  Chicago  and  fly  back  in  time  to  be  with 
me  at  the  hospital. 

Everything  went  perfectly.  Anyone  who 
looks  at  Lindy  nowadays  is  apt  to  howl 
at  the  idea  that  we  ever  had  any  fears 
for  her  health.  It's  almost  indecent  to 
look  as  healthy  as  that  child  does! 

While  I  was  still  in  the  hospital,  Pat 
scouted  around  for  more  suitable  living 
quarters  for  us.  What  he  found  was  a 
two-bedroom,  kitchenette  apartment  in 
Manhattan.  As  soon  as  I  came  home  from 
the  hospital  with  Lindy,  Mother  Boone 
came  up  from  Nashville,  bringing  Cherry. 
Three  adults  and  two  babies  in  a  three- 
room  apartment!  To  say  we  were  cramped 
would  be  the  understatement  of  the  year. 

It  was  then  that  we  started  looking  for 
a  house.  Every  spare  minute  we  could 
sneak,  we'd  look  for  a  place — something 
we  could  afford,  close  enough  for  Pat  to 
commute  to  classes  and  the  studio,  and 
with  a  yard  so  the  girls  could  play  out- 
doors. We  didn't  have  many  of  those 
spare  minutes  for  house-hunting,  so  it 
was  a  lucky  break  for  us  when  Carmel 
Quinn  told  Pat  about  some  houses  she 
knew  of,  which  were  being  built  near 
hers  in  Leonia,  New  Jersey.  Sure  enough, 
we  found  what  we'd  been  looking  for! 

The  house  wasn't  finished  when  we 
bought  it.  In  fact,  things  began  happening 
so  fast  with  Pat,  and  we  got  so  busy,  that 
—even  though  we  moved  in  just  before 
Christmas — it  was  the  following  Septem- 
ber before  I  got  all  the  decorating  com- 
pleted! 

No-o-o-o,  I  thought,  as  I  lay  there  in 
the  sun  in  Palm  Springs — I'd  never  have 
dreamed,  two  years  ago,  that  such  fab- 
ulous things  could  be  happening  to  us  to- 
day. And  everyone  is  so  enthusiastic,  so 
kind  and  complimentary,  I'm  almost  be- 
coming convinced,  myself,  that  this  isn't 
just  a  temporary  thing.  Not  that  I  have 
any  doubts  whatsoever  about  Pat's  ability 


to  maintain  the  place  he's  won  in  his  fans' 
affections.  It's  just  that  we'd  never  figured 
on  anything  like  this. 

They  have  big  plans  for  Pat.  Of  course, 
he  had  his  personal-appearance  tour  late 
last  spring — he  played  Blinstrub's  in  Bos- 
ton, the  Town  Casino  in  Buffalo,  the  Latin 
Casino  in  Philadelphia,  and  eighteen  con- 
certs in  as  many  cities,  strung  across  the 
country  as  far  west  as  St.  Louis  and  Oma- 
ha, and  as  far  north  as  Toronto.  Traveling 
with  him  on  the  junket  were  the  Four 
Lads,  the  Fontane  Sisters,  comedian  Gary 
Morton,  and  an  orchestra  especially  as- 
sembled for  the  tour. 

Then,  early  in  June,  Pat  started  his 
second  movie  at  Fox.  We  had  originally 
planned  to  go  back  East  in  April.  But, 
when  this  came  up,  we  left  the  furnished 
apartment  and  hunted  up  a  house  to  rent. 
We  found  a  lovely  place  up  in  Coldwater 
Canyon — five  bedrooms — and  it  was  like 
living  in  a  country  club,  after  the  cramped 
quarters  of  the  apartment.  We  hired  a 
cook.  That  way,  Eva  and  I  were  free  to 
spend  most  of  our  time  with  the  little  girls. 

Pat's  second  picture  is  a  musical,  a  re- 
make of  "Home  in  Indiana,"  only  this 
time  with  a  score  by  Sammy  Fain  and 
Paul  Francis  Webster.  Shirley  Jones  is 
Pat's  leading  lady. 

In  August,  we'll  be  going  back  to  Leonia. 
In  September,  Pat  will  re-enter  Columbia 
University,  to  finish  working  for  his  de- 
gree. In  October,  he  starts  his  new  tele- 
vision program  for  Chevy  on  ABC -TV.  So 
it  will  be  a  busy  autumn  for  us.  At  the 
end  of  the  coming  semester,  Pat  will  be 
graduated.  (I  don't  care  what  critical 
success  he's  made  with  his  singing — I 
know  he's  going  to  get  the  thrill  of  his 
lifetime  when  he's  achieved  that  degree!) 

And  they're  already  talking  still  more 
pictures.  Maybe  we'll  move  to  California 
to  stay.  I  think  I'd  like  that,  and  I've  heard 
Pat  say  he  would.  Once  we  were  perma- 
nently settled  in  California,  I  imagine  we 
could  manage  to  live  a  fairly  normal  ex- 
istence— if  anyone  in  Hollywood  ever  does. 

But  things  will  never  be  quite  the  same 
again.  Of  that  I'm  sure.  And  I  have  the 
word  of  an  expert  to  back  me  up.  I  got 
that  word  one  evening  when  Pat  and  I 
went  out  to  call  on  Bing  Crosby. 

Bing  has  been  an  idol  of  ours  for  years, 
and  my  dad  has  always  admired  him  a 
great  deal.  So  I  was  especially  thrilled 
when  he  sent  word  he'd  like  to  have  us 
drop  in  to  see  him.  When  he  started  talk- 
ing about  my  dad,  of  course  I  really  loved 
him!  He  told  us  how  he'd  made  a  state- 
ment, quoted  in  the  press  about  eight 
years  ago,  to  the  effect  that  Red  Foley  was 
the  best  all-around  singer  in  the  country. 
By  that,  he  meant  he  thought  Dad  could 
sing  country  tunes,  ballads,  pop  music — 
everything.  And  he  went  on  to  say  that 
he  still  holds  that  opinion  of  Dad's  ability. 

This  made  me  feel  warm  toward  him, 
naturally.  And  I  got  up  courage  enough 
to  ask  him  a  question.  "How  long  do 
you  think  it  will  be,  Mr.  Crosby,"  I  asked, 
"until  this  chaos  calms  down  a  little — 
until  things  sort  of  settle  back  to  normal?" 

He  looked  at  me  and  grinned  that  won- 
derful grin  of  his.  "Do  you  mean,  how 
long  is  it  going  to  be  before  you  get  your 
husband  back?" 

Pat  tells  me  I  blushed  then — and  I  ad- 
mitted I  had  meant  it  just  about  the  way 
Mr.  Crosby  put  it. 

He  thought  for  a  moment,  looking  off 
into  space.  Then  he  looked  me  straight  in 
the  eye,  and  the  grin  was  gone,  and  I  could 
tell  he  was  dead  serious.  "Pat's  only 
twenty-two — he's  getting  an  earlier  start 
than  I  did.  I'd  say,  Shirley,  that  you  can 
expect  to  get  your  husband  back  in  about 
thirty  years!" 

Well,  maybe  so.    It's  worth  waiting  for! 


The  Lady  Dances 

(Continued  from,  page  60) 


Kathryn  Murray  studies  script  for  the 
Arthur  Murray  Party   over    NBC-TV. 


float.  She  credits  this  to  proper  foot 
placement — walking  a  straight  line,  with 
weight  forward.  A  friend  would  call  her 
winged  walk  part  of  her  "reaching  out" 
toward  people.  Even  Kathryn  Murray's 
face  "dances."  "To  me,  beauty  is  facial 
expression  rather  than  features,"  she 
explains.  "When  I'm  animated,  I  begin  to 
look  like  myself.  You  may  be  dressed  by 
Dior,  but  no  one  cares  unless  your  face 
shows  life  and  motion."  Kathryn  Mur- 
ray's husband,  daughters  and  five  grand- 
children fill  her  days  to  the  brim.  Besides 
doing  TV,  she  prepares  the  Murray 
teaching  manuals  and  the  daily  guides 
that  go  to  studio  managers.  Twice  a  week 
she  bakes,  to  fill  the  cookie  tin  in  her 
husband's  office.  Her  schedule  allows  only 
simple,  speedy  make-up.  She  does  her 
own  pedicures  because  the  bending  and 
stretching  keeps  her  body  agile.  She  needs 
only  five  or  six  hours  of  sleep — perhaps 
because  she  knows  how  to  go  "rag-doll" 
limp  in  a  bus  or  car,  with  her  feet  up  on 
a  chair  or  suitcase  whenever  possible. 
Says  Kathryn  Murray:  "I  can't  be 
bothered  by  caring  for  a  large  wardrobe, 
so  I  don't  own  a  great  many  of  anything. 
When  I  buy  a  new  black  dress,  I  get  rid 
of  the  old.  If  I  don't  wear  a  pair  of  shoes 
for  three  months,  out  they  go.  I  like  air- 
spaces in  my  closet,  and  airiness  in  my 
whole  household."  Never  wear  anything 
brand  new  when  you  go  out,  she  advises 
— except  a  bridal  gown.  She  "breaks  in" 
new  clothes  at  home.  "I  don't  go  out  with 
my  clothes,"  says  Kathryn  Murray,  "they 
go  out  with  me.  I  want  to  rise  above 
them."  This  lady  has  risen  above  more 
than  clothes — she  has  risen  above  her 
"tininess,"  her  shyness,  her  lack  of  con- 
ventional "glamour  girl"  beauty.  Her  eyes 
dance  as  she  says,  "A  girl  can  become 
almost  anything  she  wants  to  be." 


KATHRYN  MURRAY 

proves  a  "career  woman"  can  cook, 

too    .   .   .   don't    miss    her   delicious 

favorite  recipes  in  the 

September 
TV  RADIO  MIRROR 

at  your  newsstand  August  6 


NEW 


i 


Star 
Candids 


We've  added  tome  brand 
new  stars  and  brand  new  pic- 
tures starting  with  #248. 
Check  the  list  below  for  your 
favorites.  All  handsome  4x5 
photos,  on  glossy  stock,  just 
right  for  framing.  Send  your 
order  today. 


«*«**««* 


CANDIDS 


1.  Lana  Turner 

2.  Betty  Grable 

3.  Ava  Gardner 

5.  Alan  Ladd 

6.  Tyrone  Power 

7.  Gregory  Peck 
9.  Esther  Williams 

11.  Elizabeth  Taylor 

14.  Cornel  Wilde 

15.  Frank  Sinatra 

18.  Rory  Calhoun 

19.  Peter  Lawford 

21.  Bob  Mitch urn 

22.  Burt  Lancaster 

23.  Bing  Crosby 
25.  Dale  Evans 
27.  Jane  Allyson 

33.  Gene  Autry 

34.  Roy  Rogers 

35.  Sunset  Carson 

50.  Diana  Lynn 

51.  Doris  Day 

52.  Montgomery  Clift 

53.  Richard  Widmark 

56.  Perry  Come 

57.  BiU  Holden 

66.  Gordon  MacRae 

67.  Ann  Blyth 

68.  Jeanne  Crain 

69.  Jane  Russell 
74.  John  Wayne 
78.  Andie  Murphy 
84.  Janet  Leigh 
86.  Farley  Granger 

91.  John  Derek 

92.  Guy  Madison 
94.  Mario  Lanza 
103.  Scott  Brady 

105.  Vic  Damone 

106.  Shelley  Winters 

107.  Richard  Todd 


109.  Dean  Martin 

1 10.  Jerry  Lewis 
112.  Susan  Hayward 
117.  Terry  Moore 
121.  Tony  Curtis 
124.  Gail  Davis 

127.  Piper  Laurie 

128.  Debbie  Reynolds 

135.  Jeff  Chandler 

136.  Rock  Hudson 

137.  Stewart  Granger 

139.  Debra  Paget 

140.  Dale  Robertson 

141.  Marilyn  Monroe 

142.  Leslie  Caron 

143.  Pier  Angeli 

144.  Mitzi  Gaynor 

145.  Marlon  Brando 

146.  Aldo  Ray 

147.  Tab  Hunter 

148.  Robert  Wagner 

149.  Russ  Tamblyn 

150.  Jeff  Hunter 
152.  Marge  and  Gow- 

er  Champion 

174.  Rita  Gam 

175.  Charlton  Heston 

176.  Steve  Cochran 

177.  Richard  Burton 

179.  Julius  La  Rosa 

180.  Lucille  Ball 
182.  Jack  Webb 
185.  Richard  Egan 
187.  Jeff  Richards 

190.  Pat  Crowley 

191.  Robert  Taylor 

192.  Jean  Simmons 
194.  Audrey  Hepburn 
198.  Gale  Storm 
202.  George  Nader 


205.  Ann  Sothern 
207.  Eddie  Fisher 
209.  Liberace 

211.  Bob  Francis 

212.  Grace  Kelly 

213.  James  Dean 

214.  Sheree  North 

215.  Kim  Novak 

216.  Richard  Davalos 

218.  Eva  Marie  Saint 

219.  Natalie  Wood 

220.  Dewey  Martin 

221.  Joan  Collins 

222.  Jayne  Mansfield 

223.  Sal  Mineo 

224.  Shir  lev  Jones 

225.  Elvis  Presley 

226.  Victoria  Shaw 

227.  Tony  Perkins 

228.  Clint  Walker 

229.  Pat  Boone 

230.  Paul  Newman 

231.  Don  Murray 

232.  Don  Cherry 

233.  Pat  Wayne 

234.  Carroll  Baker 

235.  Anita  Ekberg 

236.  Corey  AUen 


237.  Dana  Wynter 

239.  Judy  Busch 

240.  Patti  Page 

241.  Lawrence  Welk 

242.  Alice  Lon 

243.  Larry  Dean 

244.  Buddy  Merrill 

245.  Hugh  O'Brlan 

246.  Jim  Arness 

247.  Sanford  Clark 

248.  Vera  Miles 

249.  John  Saxon 

250.  Dean  Stockwell 

251.  Diane  Jet  gens 

252.  Warren  Berlinger 

253.  James  MacArthur 

254.  Nick  Adams 

255.  John  Kerr 

256.  Harry  Belafonte 

257.  Jim  Lowe 

258.  Luana  Patten 

259.  Dennis  Hopper 

260.  Tom  Tryon 

261 .  Tommy  Sands 

262.  Will  Hutchins 

263.  James  Darren 

264.  Ricky  Nelson 


|    WORLD  WIDE,  DEPT.  WG-8 
112  Main  St.,  Ossining,  N.  Y. 

I  enclose  $ for   candid 

pictures  of  my  favorite  stars  and  have  circled 

I    the  numbers  of  the  ones  you  are  to  send  me 

I    by  return  mail. 


FILL    IN    AND    MAIL 
COUPON  TODAY! 


I 
I 
I 
I 
7   ■ 


NAME 

STREET 

CITY 

T 

ZONE STATE J 

Fill  out  and  mail  coupon  today.    Send  cash 
or  money  order.  12  pictures  for  $1 ;  6  for  50c. 

65 


(Continued  from  page  29) 
in  the  best  of  TV  dramatic  shows.  Just 
being  herself  on  the  panel  quiz,  To  Tell 
The  Truth,  has  earned  her  the  affection  of 
a  few  million  more  people.  So  a  CBS 
executive  with  a  high  I.Q.  signed  Polly  to 
a  long-term  contract,  and  it  is  a  good  bet 
that,  by  the  end  of  the  coming  season,  she 
may    be    TV's    most    "famous"    newcomer. 

"It  doesn't  matter  anymore.  What  I  mean 
is  that  it  doesn't  matter  in  the  same  way 
it  would  have  before,"  Polly  explains.  "A 
couple  of  years  ago,  a  friend  described  me 
as  a  keg  of  dynamite  with  a  short  fuse. 
Then  I  was  so  anxious  and  nervous  about 
wanting  to  succeed  in  my  career.  Now  my 
career  is  my  family." 

Since  her  marriage  a  year-and-a-half 
ago,  Polly  has  turned  down  club  dates, 
picture  contracts,  personal  appearances, 
anything  that  would  take  her  away  from 
home.  "Like  the  man,"  Polly  laughs,  "who 
was  told  that  he  couldn't  take  his  money 
with  him  when  he  went  to  heaven  and  he 
replied,  'If  I  can't  take  it  with  me,  I  won't 
go.'  It's  the  same  with  me.  I've  left  New 
York  just  once,  to  do  'The  Helen  Morgan 
Story'  from  Hollywood — and  the  family 
went  with  me." 

Home  for  Polly  is  a  ten-room  apartment 
on  Fifth  Avenue  just  opposite  Central 
Park.  Polly  herself  has  chosen  all  the 
beautiful  furnishings,  but  she  herself  is  the 
most  decorative  item.  A  dazzling  dynamo, 
Polly  stands  five-five-and-a-half  in  bare 
feet  and  weighs  in  at  one-nineteen.  Her 
hair  is  dark  brown,  and  her  expressive 
eyes  a  deep,  rustling  blue.  Others  in  the 
family  picture  are.  husband  Freddie,  a 
handsome  six-footer  with  a  Doug  Fair- 
banks mustache;  his  daughter  Kathy,  a 
bright,  affectionate  ten-year-old — and  a 
menagerie  which  includes  Buttons,  a  toy 
French  poodle;  Tinker  Bell,  a  night-black 
cat;  Filet,  a  full-size  poodle;  and  an  as- 
sortment  of  goldfish,   turtles   and  birds. 

"As  a  kid  there  was  never  a  chance  to 
have  a  home,"  Polly  says.  "Dad  was  a  con- 
struction engineer  and  we  were  always 
on  the  move,  with  me  loaded  in  the  back 
with  the  baggage.  In  one  year,  I  was  in 
ten  different  schools.  Sometimes,  we  lived 
in  cramped  one-room  apartments.  Natural- 
ly, we  couldn't  carry  furniture  with  us 
and  so  we  had  to  do  with  what  was  fur- 
nished. I  remember,  when  I  was  twelve, 
I  had  to  sleep  in  a  crib,  because  that's  all 
there  was  for  me." 

One  of  two  daughters,  Polly  was  born 
in  Knoxville,  Tennessee,  on  July  14,  1930. 
Her  mother's  maiden  name  was  Lucy  Law- 
horn.  Her  father  is  William  Burgin.  Polly 
changed  the  spelling  to  "Bergen"  because 
no  one  ever  spelled  Burgin  correctly  when 
she  launched  her  career  at  an  early  age. 
At  fourteen,  she  had  her  own  radio  show, 
singing  three  times  a  week  on  Station 
WKBC  in  Richmond,  Indiana.  Actually,  as 
her  mother  recalls,  Polly  was  singing  be- 
fore she  was  talking.  Her  voice  showed  so 
much  promise  that  she  was  studying  oper- 
atic music  at  the  age  of  nine. 

"I  got  bored  with  formal  lessons,"  she 
says.  "I  didn't  want  to  practice  scales.  I 
was  happy,  just  singing  like  my  parents. 
Dad  and  Mother  sang  together — they  still 
do.  Friday  and  Saturday  nights,  you  can 
be  sure  the  guitar  comes  out  and  they 
blow  up  a  country  jig.  Daddy  and  Mother 
are  both  hillbillies,  born  in  Tennessee. 
Dad's  a  big  man,  stands  six-five.  He  was 
once  a  boxer.  I  get  my  extraverted  per- 

J    sonality   from   him.   I   get  my   looks   from 
Mother.    They    were    young    parents,    and 

R    they're  only  in  their  forties  now. 

"We  were  very  close,"  Polly  continues. 
"They  taught  me  their  songs.  They  taught 

on 


The  Truth  About  Polly 

me  to  play  cards  with  them  and,  when  they 
went  visiting  friends  in  the  evening,  I 
went  along.  I  didn't  make  lasting  friend- 
ships with  other  children.  Oh,  I  did  at  first. 
But  they  were  always  broken  up,  after  a 
month  or  so,  when  Dad  moved.  Well,  you 
know  how  kids  are.  They  protect  them- 
selves against  hurt.  Rather  than  get  buddy- 
buddy  with  another  little  girl,  I  just  didn't 
allow  myself  close  friends.  My  parents 
tried  to  make  up  for  it.  Mother  used  to 
play  jacks  with  me  by  the  hour.  But,  even 
so,  I  was  very  lonely  at  times." 

As  a  child,  Polly  learned  the  skills  of  a 
housekeeper.  She  is  an  excellent  cook  and 
can  bake  anything — including  lemon  me- 
ringue pie  and  angel  food  cake.  "When  I 
was  twelve,  both  parents  were  working 
and  I  kept  up  the  home  and  made  many 
of  the  meals.  And  I  took  care  of  my  sister 
Barbara.  She  was  three  then.  Well,  frank- 
ly, I  didn't  enjoy  the  cleaning  chores — but 
I've  always  found  the  rest  of  it  is  fun." 

In  her  middle  teens,  the  family  moved 
West.  She  was  sixteen  when  they  settled 
in  Compton,  California,  for  four  years.  That 
was  the  longest  time  they'd  ever  stopped 
anywhere  and  so  Polly  thinks  of  Comp- 
ton  as   her   home   town. 

"It  was  then  that  I  began  to  work  at 
being  a  singer,"  she  recalls.  "I  guess  I 
was  a  kind  of  switch-singer  many  of  those 
years.  Sometimes  I  sang  hillbilly,  some- 
times pop.  I  was  sixteen  when  I  began  to 
work  in  clubs,  and  I  had  to  lie  about  my 
age.  Mother  came  along  to  chaperone  but 
since  I  was  pretending  to  be  twenty-one, 
she  looked  too  young  to  be  my  mother  and 
so  she  had  to  pose  as  my  sister!  After  two 
years  of  that,  I  worked  wholly  in  the 
pop  field  and  began  to  sing  with  society 
bands." 

Some  TV  viewers,  who  know  Polly  as 
a  panelist  and  actress,  are  unaware  that 
she  has  one  of  the  finest  blues  voices  in 
show  business.  Her  success  in  night  clubs 
was  built  on  her  voice.  She  was  a  featured 
singer  on  TV's  Hit  Parade  in  1954.  Today, 
she  records  for  Columbia  Records.  Her 
new  album,  "Bergen  Sings  Morgan,"  cap- 
tures her  midnight-blue  treatment  of 
such  standards  as  "Can't  Help  Lovin'  That 
Man,"  "Mean  to  Me,"  "Body  and  Soul," 
and  "Bill."  For  the  vintage  Bergen,  there 
is  the  Jubilee  album,  "Little  Girl  Blue," 
wherein  Polly  also  puts  the  flame  to  torch 
lyrics.  But,  surprisingly,  the  big  break  in 
her  career  came  about  when  she  recorded 
a  hillbilly  song  entitled  "Honky-tonkin'." 

"I  was  eighteen  and  a  half  then,"  Polly 
explains,  "and  the  trend  was  to  novelty 
tunes.  I  was  making  my  first  record  for  a 
small  company  named  Kem.  I  decided  to 
do  'Honky-tonkin';  a  song  I'd  learned 
from  Dad  when  I  was  about  four.  Unfor- 
tunately, I  just  missed  the  trend  and  the 
record  didn't  sell  much  more  than  a  dozen 
copies." 

But  Victor  liked  it  so  much  they  tried 
to  buy  up  the  master  recording.  When  they 
couldn't,  they  signed  Polly  to  a  contract. 
And  there  was  so  much  talk  in  the  trade 
about  "Honky-tonkin' "  that  movie  com- 
panies began  to  look  twice  at  Polly.  What 
struck  them  was  the  seeming  incomraati- 
bility  of  her  sophisticated  beauty  and  her 
hillbilly  recording.  They  were  hooked,  and 
Hal  Wallis  signed  her  to  a  picture  con- 
tract. So  began  her  film  career,  and  she 
made  movies  with  Red  Skelton,  Dean 
Jagger,  Vittorio  Gassman,  Howard  Keel, 
Gig  Young,  Dean  Martin  and  Jerry  Lewis. 

As  a  TV  actress,  she  played  Schlitz 
Playhouse,  Studio  One,  General  Electric 
Theater,  U.S.  Steel  Hour  and  others.  Her 
musical  and  comedy  talents  landed  her  on 
the  shows  of  Durante,  Ed  Sullivan,  Perry 
Como,  Steve  Allen,  and  Martin  and  Lewis. 


In  1953,  she  took  up  residence  in  New 
York.  The  winter  of  1953,  she  made  her 
debut  on  Broadway  in  John  Murray 
Anderson's  revue,  "Almanac."  In  the  spring 
of  1955,  she  co-starred  in  the  play,  "Cham- 
pagne Complex"  and  won  the  critics'  praise. 
Before  this,  she'd  sung  on  Your  Hit  Pa- 
rade, and  then  become  the  "Pepsi-Cola 
Girl." 

"A  lot  of  people  are  curious  about  why 
I  did  the  Pepsi  stint,"  says  Polly.  "I  think 
it  was  one  of  the  best  things  that  ever 
happened  to  me.  It  meant  earning  a  tre- 
mendous amount  of  money,  and  that 
meant  I  could  be  choosey  about  the  jobs 
I  took.  You  know,  one  of  the  worst  things 
about  show  business  is  its  insecurity  and 
often  a  performer  takes  anything  that  is 
offered,  just  to  be  working.  Besides  that," 
Polly  adds,  "it's  turned  out  to  be  a  fine 
experience.  Pepsi  was  growing,  and  it  was 
exciting  to  be  on  a  good  team." 

lolly's  first  marriage,  to  actor-singer 
Jerome  Courtland,  ran  five-and-a-half 
years  and  ended  in  divorce  in  1955.  Again, 
because  of  the  demands  of  the  business, 
the  road  tours,  the  one-nighters,  picture- 
making  in  Hollywood,  TV  in  New  York, 
there  was  a  seldom  a  chance  of  making  the 
real  home  Polly  wished  for.  It  wasn't  until 
1956 — when  she  married  a  man  whom  she 
thought  she  detested — that  she  got  her 
home. 

"Now  there's  a  story,"  she  says.  "Fred- 
die Fields  had  been  with  Music  Corpora- 
tion of  America  for  seven  years,  and  I 
knew  him  all  that  time.  MCA  represented 
me,  but  Freddie  wasn't  my  personal  agent. 
We  did  run  into  each  other,  though,  and 
usually  head-on.  Whenever  I  walked  into 
his  office,  we  had  a  tremendous  fight." 
(Polly  digresses  to  the  present  for  a  mo- 
ment, to  note  proudly:  "Freddie  is  execu- 
tive vice-president  in  charge  of  television, 
which  is  quite  a  big  job  for  a  man  of 
thirty-three.") 

"Anyway,"  she  continues,  "there  was  al- 
ways trouble  when  I  had  to  talk  business 
with  Freddie.  Then  it  was  November  of 
1955,  and  Ed  Sullivan  asked  me  to  sing  at 
a  benefit  at  the  Plaza.  Well,  I  had  a  load 
to  tote  down  there — music,  gown,  shoes. 
A  friend  helped  me  down,  but  I  needed  a 
hand  for  the  return  trip.  MCA  had  a  table 
at  the  affair  and  I  walked  over  and  asked 
Jay  Kantor  if  he'd  help  me  get  home.  He 
said  that  he  was  very  sorry — he'd  prom- 
ised to  meet  his  wife  and  mother  in  town 
— but  why  didn't  I  let  him  get  Freddie 
Fields  to  help?  I  said,  'Oh,  no.  Not  him!' 
Jay  said,  'He's  not  so  bad.'  He  went  over 
and  asked  Freddie,  and  Freddie  came  over 
with  a  big  grin,  for  he  understood  how 
I  felt  about  him.  He  helped  me  home 
with  my  things  and  asked  me  to  have  din- 
ner with  him  that  evening.  Because  we 
didn't  have  business  to  discuss,  we  found 
that  we  got  along  very  well.  Three  months 
later  on  February  13,  1955 — we  married." 

Polly,  who  practices  interior  decorating 
as  a  hobby,  has  furnished  their  apartment 
in  a  mixture  of  modern  and  antique.  Her 
idea  of  modern  is  not  to  the  extreme,  but 
rather  to  simple  lines.  Two  king-size 
sofas  exemplify  this,  but  the  sofas  and 
a  huge  ottoman  surround  an  enormous 
glass-topped  coffee  table  which  was  orig- 
inally an  antique  English  door-panel. 

"Both  Kathy  and  I  pick  at  the  piano," 
Polly  says.  "Neither  of  us  has  had  enough 
lessons  to  be  good.  Incidentally,  we  use 
the  living  room  for  living.  Maybe  that's 
my   California   background." 

Predominating  colors  in  the  living  and 
dining  rooms  are  elephant  gray,  coral  and 
green.  Polly  chose  the  colors  from  her 
china,  now  displayed  in  a  big  hutch  in  the 


dining  room,  which  is  almost  wholly  deco- 
rated in  Early  American. 

Polly's  own  bedroom  is  all  white  and 
gold,  with  17th-century  Italian  furniture. 
The  bed  itself  is  topped  off  with  a  hand- 
carved  Venetian  headboard.  On  the  side 
tables  there  are  tall  white-and-gold 
candlesticks  that  have  been  converted  into 
lamps.  Kathy's  bedroom  is  in  pink  and 
white,  with  fruitwood  furniture  and  a  col- 
lection of  paintings  of  child  musicians. 

Kathy  and  Polly  have  become  very  close. 
The  morning  after  the  wedding,  Polly  be- 
gan getting  up  at  7:30  A.M.— the  middle  of 
the  night,  in  show  business — to  dress  and 
get  Kathy  off  to  school.  It  was  Kathy's 
own  suggestion  that  she  and  Polly  set 
aside  one  day  a  week  for  themselves.  They 
decided  on  Wednesday.  Then,  at  three 
P.M.,  Polly  picks  Kathy  up  at  school  and 
they  carry  out  a  pre-planned  excursion. 
It  may  be  shopping,  a  movie,  sight-seeing. 
When  Polly  had  to  leave  Manhattan  to  do 
"The  Helen  Morgan  Story,"  she  took 
Kathy  out  of  school.  Before  the  trip,  she 
went  to  Kathy's  school  and  got  a  schedule 
of  lessons  for  the  next  four  weeks,  and 
then   personally   tutored  Kathy. 

"Kathy  is  very  grown-up  for  her  age. 
She's  got  a  rare  sensitivity  about  others' 
feelings."  Polly  loves  children  and  notes, 
"What  I've  wanted  all  of  my  adult  life  is 
a  baby  of  my  own.  I've  lost  several  pre- 
maturely, but  I  still  haven't  given  up  hope. 
This  summer,  however,  we  hope  to  adopt 
a  baby." 

Polly  is  tender-hearted  and  sentimental 
in  many  ways,  but  she  definitely  has  a 
mind  of  her  own.  "I  guess  I'm  strong,"  she 
says.  "A  woman  has  to  be,  when  she  is 
cutting  out  a  career.  But  Freddie  is  strong, 
too,  perhaps  stronger.  We  can  both  be  very 
opinionated.  Some  couples  skirt  this  dif- 
ference by  divvying  up  responsibilities. 
Certain  problems  are  hers  and  others  are 


his.  We  don't  believe  in  that  attitude.  I 
think  husband  and  wife  are  meant  to  help 
each  other  and  overlap,  even  if  it  makes 
for  an  occasional  rumble."  Polly  smiles  and 
goes  on,  "But  this  is  true,  too,  about  me: 
I  need  someone  to  lean  on.  Every  woman 
wants  a  man  who'll  take  care  of  her.  Fred- 
die  gives  me   that  kind   of  security." 

But  Freddie  draws  the  line  at  publicity. 
He  won't  talk  about  himself  and  rarely 
poses  for  pictures.  "I  represent  a  half- 
dozen  stars  other  than  Pol,"  he  explains, 
"and  I  think  I'm  more  useful  to  them 
when    I    don't    identify    myself    publicly." 

He  does  share  Polly's  enthusiasm  for 
do-it-yourself  decorating  and  makes  him- 
self useful  wiring  lamps,  hanging  pictures, 
and  just  being  a  "handy  man."  He  also 
shares  Polly's  love  of  animals.  Tinker  Bell, 
for  instance,  was  just  a  kitten  in  a  Hal- 
loween pumpkin,  a  forgotten  TV  prop, 
when  Freddie  rescued  her  and  brought  her 
home.  And  then  there  was  the  night  he 
went  oil  a  Broadway  safari  to  hunt  turtles. 

"That  was  a  night,"  Polly  recalls.  "Kathy 
took  her  pet  turtle  into  the  tub  with  her. 
I  didn't  know  that  turtles  can  swim  on  the 
surface  only  so  long  before  they  drown 
and,  suddenly,  Kathy  was  screaming  in  the 
bathroom.  She  told  us  that  she  had  killed 
her  turtle.  Well,  Freddie  and  I  knew  that 
the  turtle  was  dead,  but  we  tried  to  make 
it  look  alive  by  wiggling  it  in  the  water. 
Kathy  seemed  to  be  convinced  and  so  we 
told  her  we'd  give  the  turtle  a  rest  and  she 
went  off  to  bed.  Oh,  we  knew  that  she 
would  have  to  find  out  for  herself  that 
turtles  and  goldfish  die — and  she  did  short- 
ly afterward — but,  at  that  time,  it  both- 
ered us  that  she  thought  she'd  killed  it. 

"So,  after  she  went  to  sleep,  Freddie  and 
I  sat  around  talking  about  it  and  finally 
decided  that,  since  we  had  told  her  the 
turtle  was  alive,  we  had  to  replace  him 
before  morning.  It  was  after  midnight,  yet 


Freddie  went  out  to  find  a  turtle.  He  got 
back  around  two  with  a  small,  live  turtle. 
He  had  found  it  in  one  of  those  open-all- 
night  stores  on  Broadway.  It  was  a  frisky 
turtle  and  we  were  so  pleased  for  Kathy. 
The  next  morning  she  was  so  happy  to 
find  it  alive — but  you  know  children  don't 
miss  much,  and  she  said,  T  guess  the  bath 
was  really  good  for  the  turtle.  It  even 
changed  him  to  a  nicer  color.' " 

Of  course,  it's  rare  that  a  night  is  spent 
on  a  turtle  chase.  Polly  and  Freddie  spend 
most  evenings  being  "small  town."  Polly 
loves  games — bridge,  canasta,  jotto.  And 
she  enjoys  visiting,  talking,  being  with 
family  and  friends.  Freddie's  family  is 
close  and  many  evenings  are  spent  in  the 
company  of  his  brothers  and  sister  and 
their  families.  All  of  his  family  lives  in 
New  York  except  his  brother,  orchestra 
leader  Shep  Fields,  who  lives  in  Houston. 
Polly's  own  parents  are  now  making  their 
home  in  Circleville,  Ohio,  one  of  the 
towns  where  they  stopped  over  during 
Polly's  early  years — it's  also  the  birthplace 
of  Polly's  sister,  Barbara,  who  is  married 
to  an  American  soldier  now  stationed  in 
Europe. 

Polly's  private  life  is  stable,  but  her 
future  plans  in  show  business  aren't  so 
clearly  determined.  In  addition  to  her 
panel  performance,  CBS  will  see  to  it  that 
she  also  appears  in  dramatic  and  musical 
productions  during  the  coming  season.  If 
she  gets  around  to  doing  a  show  of  her 
own,  she  would  like  it  to  be  a  kind  of  "cap- 
sule" musical  comedy.  However,  she  will 
continue  to  turn  down  picture  offers  and 
night-club  dates.  "I  don't  mind  working 
full  time,"  she  explains,  "if  the  hours  cor- 
respond with  Freddie's  business  hours  and 
Kathy's  school  day.  But  I  won't  work  in 
the  evening  and  I  won't  leave  town.  I  think 
I  gave  up  my  ambition  for  the  best  reason 
in  the  world." 


NONA/!    EASIER,    SURER    PROTECTION 
FOR    YOUR     MOST    INTIMATE    MARRIAGE    PROBLEM 

Tested  by  doctors  .  .  .  proved  in  hospital  clinics 


1.  Antiseptic  {Protective,  germicidal  action) 
Norforms  are  safer  and  surer  than  ever!  A 
highly  perfected  new  formula  releases  anti- 
septic and  germicidal  ingredients  right  in 
the  vaginal  tract.  The  exclusive  new  base 
melts  at  body  temperature,  forming  a  pow- 
erful protective  film  that  permits  long- 
lasting  action.  Will  not  harm  delicate  tissues. 

2.  Deodorant  (Protection  from  odor)  Nor- 
forms were  tested  in  a  hospital  clinic  arid 
found  to  be  more  effective  than  anything 


it  had  ever  used.  Norforms  are  deodorant- 
they  eliminate  (rather  than  cover  up)  embar- 
rassing odors,  yet  have  no  "medicine"  or 
"disinfectant"  odor  themselves. 

3.  Convenient  (So  easy  to  use)  Norforms 
are  small  vaginal  suppositories,  so  easy  and 
convenient  to  use.  Just  insert — no  appara- 
tus, mixing  or  measuring.  They're  grease- 
less  and  they  keep  in  any  climate.  Your 
druggist  has  them  in  boxes  of  12  and  24. 
Also  available  in  Canada. 


A  NORWICH  PRODUCT 


Tested  by  doctors  •  Trusted  by  women 

FREE  informafiVe  Norforms  booklet 

Mail  coupon  to:  Dept.  RT-78  Norwich 
Pharmacal  Co.,  Norwich,  N.  Y.  Send 
Norforms  booklet,  in  a  plain  envelope. 


Name_ 
Street_ 
City_ 


<PUASE  PRINT} 


.Zone Sfate_ 


67 


(Continued  from  page  50) 
household  have  a  ruler  and  let  him  rule. 
Let  the  boss  be  boss. 

A  major  test  of  Ida's  theory  was  oc- 
casioned by  her  husband,  Howard  Duff, 
when  he  asked,  one  day  shortly  after  their 
marriage,  "Why  do  you  wear  tailored, 
severe    clothing?" 

"Because  it  becomes  me,"  Ida  explained. 
"I'm  small  and  slight;  fussy  things  would 
overwhelm  me.  Why?" 

Howard  considered  for  a  few  moments 
before  venturing  an  opinion  that  most 
women  dress  for  other  women  rather  than 
for  men.  He  said  he  thought  women  re- 
acted, subconsciously,  to  designs  that  were 
a  modification  of  masculine  attire,  whereas 
a  man  reacted  to  designs  that  were  pa- 
tently  feminine   without   being   overdone. 

That  ended  the  discussion.  But,  the  next 
time  Ida  went  shopping,  she  rejected  the 
severe  lines  she  had  previously  favored, 
and  bought  a  pale  pink  chiffon  gown  that 
clung  in  the  right  places,  and  floated  in 
the  right  places.  When  she  emerged  in  the 
dress  for  the  first  time,  ready  to  attend  a 
gala  party,  Howard  expressed  his  opinion 
in  a  long,  low  wolf  whistle. 

Under  the  circumstance,  what  wife 
wouldn't  be  happy  to  accept  her  husband  s 
taste  as  guide  in  lieu  of  her  own?  Since 
then,  Ida's  wardrobe  has  been  made  up  of 
garments  in  Howard's  favorite  colors  for 
feminine  gear:  Black,  pastel  blue,  pink, 
and  stark  white. 

On  another  occasion,  he  wanted  to  know, 
"Why  don't  you  ever  wear  big,  clumpy 
jewelry?  Gold  bracelets  and  earrings — 
things  like  that?" 

Ida  refrained  from  expressing  her  per- 
sonal taste.  Instead,  she  said,  "I've  never 
felt  like  buying  such  things  for  myself. 
They're  conversation  pieces,  and  I've  al- 
ways believed  that  the  conversation  should 
start  with  the  fact  that  the  jewelry  is 
a  gift." 

"I  get  it,"  said  her  husband,  with  a  grin. 
Shortly  afterward,  he  reacted  to  Ida's 
comment  by  bringing  her  a  bracelet  that 
could  have  belonged  to  the  Queen  of 
Sheba — a  costume  item,  of  course,  but 
handsome  and  impressive.  "And  now,"  she 
says,  "I  have  quite  an  entertaining  collec- 
tion of  such  pieces — which  I  would  never 
have  acquired  if  I  hadn't  been  ready  to  be 
guided  by  Howard's  taste.  Letting  the  boss 
be  boss  pays  off  in  tangibles,  as  well  as  in 
intangible  satisfactions." 

One  of  the  standard  domestic  revolts  is 
that  brought  about  by  a  difference  of  at- 
titude as  to  what  constitutes  recreation. 
The  Duffs  have  no  schisms,  because  How- 
ard's leisure-hour  decisions  are  final.  He 
loathes  bridge,  so  no  deck  of  cards  mars 
the  order  of  the  game-room  table.  He  can't 
endure  the  idea  of  making  social  commit- 
ments far  in  advance:  "How  do  I  know 
whether  I'm  going  to  feel  like  attending  a 
dinner  party  three  weeks  from  tomorrow 
night?  I  may  not  be  in  town,  or  I  may  be 
dog-tired.  Ask  if  we  can  call,  the  day 
before,  to  give  our  final  answer." 

Nowadays,  the  Duffs  have  a  wide  circle 
of  friends  who  know  that  Ida  and  Howard 
prefer  to  be  called  at  the  last  minute. 
Oddly  enough,  they  have  made  them- 
selves enormously  popular  among  harried 
hostesses  who  know  that,  ordinarily,  they 
are  available  on  short  notice  and  can  fill 
in  when  others — having  accepted  on  a 
long-range  basis — find  they  must  disap- 
point. 
J  Conforming  to  the  wishes  of  the  man 
of  the  house  has  provided  another  unex- 
pected recreational  experience  for  Ida. 
One  morning,  Howard  said  to  Ida,  "If 
you're  going  into  Beverly  today,  would  you 
68 


Where  Adam  Is  King 

mind  stopping  off  to  buy  me  some  books?" 

"What  kind  of  books?  Anything  in  par- 
ticular?" 

He  suggested  a  novel  or  two,  a  book  of 
travel,  a  biography.  "You  have  good  judg- 
ment; just  browse  a  while  and  pick  up 
five  or  six  volumes  that  look  interesting." 

Ida  complied,  and  was  astonished  to  see 
her  husband  settle  into  a  comfortable 
chair  beside  a  window  providing  excellent 
light  by  day,  and  a  lamp  shedding  com- 
fortable illumination  by  night,  and  read 
for  three  or  four  days  steadily,  taking 
time  out  only  for  an  occasional  light  lunch, 
or  a  few  minutes'  cat-nap.  Straight  through 
the  day,  straight  through  the  night,  in  a 
marathon  that  Ida  has  labeled  a  "word 
binge." 

The  next  time  Howard  asked  for  seventy 
to  eighty  hours  of  reading  matter,  Ida 
equipped  herself  with  the  same  amount, 
plus  a  stock  of  food  that  could  be  prepared 
quickly,  quietly,  and  at  any  hour.  The 
dual  cramming  session  turned  out  to  be 
fun,  and  rewarding.  "It's  amazing  how 
much  one  can  get  out  of  a  concentrated 
period  of  absorbing  information,  impres- 
sions, ideas,  and  inspiration,  while  shutting 
out  all  of  the  usual  distractions,"  she  told 
Howard. 

"Good  girl,"  he  said.  "I  never  expected 
to  find  anyone  to  share  my  reading  mara- 
thons.  It's   great. ' 

The  success  of  her  early  accommodations 
to  rule-by-husband  may  have  contributed 
to  Ida's  later  malleability.  For  instance, 
she  had  never  appreciated  San  Francisco 
before  Howard  undertook  her  Golden  Gate 
education.  She  thinks  now  that  her  dis- 
affection was  caused  by  her  wartime  ex- 
periences, when  San  Francisco  was 
crowded  by  service  personnel  en  route  to 
the  Pacific,  and  the  wounded  en  route  to 
hospitals  throughout  the  country.  The  city 
was  an  incredible  potpourri  of  color  and 
emotion;  it  was  gay  and  grim;  it  was  noisy, 
drunken,   and  filled   with  tears. 

So  Ida  listened  to  Howard's  glowing 
descriptions  of  "the  real"  San  Francisco, 
and  tried  to  keep  an  open  mind.  There 
came  a  night  when  Howard — as  he  had 
done  a  hundred  times  during  his  bachelor 
days — came  home  to  toss  a  few  things 
into  a  suitcase. 

"We're  going  to  San  Francisco.  I've  got 
the  fever,"  he  explained. 

Thereafter  he  escorted  Ida  through  days 
of  riding  up  and  down  San  Francisco's 
fabulous  hills.  He  showed  her  the  Cliff 
House,  Golden  Gate  Park,  the  Mission 
Dolores,  the  Marina.  At  night,  they  visited 
Fisherman's  Wharf,  DiMaggio's,  Barnaby 
Conrad's  El  Matador,  Chinatown,  Ernie's 
on  Montgomery  Street,  The  Shadows,  The 
Blue  Fox,  and  dozens  of  the  little  dark- 
box  cafes  that  vibrate  with  remarkable 
music. 

"And  to  think,"  mused  a  bedazzled  Ida, 
"that,  if  I  hadn't  learned  how  to  follow 
the  leader,  I  might  have  teased  you  into 
going  to  Palm  Springs  instead!" 

Of  course,  there  are  times  when  any 
wife — no  matter  how  cooperative — is  forced 
to  doubt  the  wisdom  of  unquestioning 
agreement.  Ida  had  moments  of  black 
doubt  when  she  accepted  an  invitation  to 
go  fishing  on  the  Hood  Canal  with  her 
husband  and  his  brother. 

It  was  her  first  experience  in  a  small 
boat  under  a  leaden  sky,  so  she  asked 
dubiously,  "Don't  you  think  it's  going 
to  storm?" — being  ignorant  of  the  un- 
written law  among  fishermen  that  weather 
is  never  mentioned.  Naturally,  she  was  not 
accorded  an   answer. 

They  were  well  out  in  the  stream  when 
the  storm  broke.  The  wind  roared,  the 
sea  pounded,   the  rain  cascaded,  and  the 


three  fishermen  continued  to  fish — as  if 
their  livelihood  depended  upon  it  and  life 
was  cheap.  Ida  muttered  under  her  breath, 
"We're  going  to  be  swamped,  that's  what," 
but  she  would  have  required  a  coxswain's 
megaphone  to  make  herself  heard,  so  she 
fished,  too.  She  caught  four  silver  salmon. 
Each  of  the  men  caught  two,  but  not  one 
of  them  was  as  large  as  Ida's  smallest 
salmon.  The  consequent  respect  accorded 
her — bedraggled,  soaked,  chilled,  and  faint- 
ly blue  as  she  was — was  still  so  great  that 
she  was  ready  to  go  fishing  again  the  next 
morning. 

Now  and  then,  however,  it  turns  out 
that  a  husband  must  be  permitted  to  lead 
the  way  in  reverse. 

Ida  once  invented  an  insect  named  The 
Fleep.  A  cross  between  a  fly  and  a  flea,  a 
fleep  lives — naturally — on  sheep.  He  has 
a  corkscrew  bill  that  is  handy  for  spearing 
small  fruits  or  extracting  olives  from  a 
jar.  His  adventures,  according  to  Ida's 
stories  for  her  daughter,  are  numerous, 
so  Ida  tried  to  persuade  Howard  to  illus- 
strate    the   life    and   times   of   The   Fleep. 

Howard's  first  job  was  that  of  cartoon- 
ist on  his  home-town  newspaper,  but  once 
having  escaped  the  ink  pot,  he  foreswore 
it  for  good.  Nothing  Ida  said  seemed  to 
sell  him  the  idea  of  capturing  on  paper 
the  bee  in  his  wife's  bonnet.  "I  haven't 
drawn  a  line  in  years.  I'm  through  with 
all  that,"  he  said  flatly. 

Ida  brought  an  easel  and  a  supply  of 
drawing  paper,  crayons,  chalk,  and  paints — 
for  Bridget,  her  five-year-old.  For  Bridget, 
of  course.  Bridget  did  her  best  ...  a  best 
that  attracted  her  father's  helping  hand. 
He  spent  hours  teaching  her  techniques, 
and  guiding  her  color  taste,  which  seemed 
to  run — ungoverned — to  a  combination  of 
purple  and  orange. 

And  then  Ida  awakened  in  the  small 
hours  one  morning  to  find  her  husband 
missing. 

Slipping  into  a  robe,  she  tiptoed  to  the 
living  room,  where  she  surprised  him 
deep  in  the  job  of  giving  The  Fleep  color- 
ful form.  And  so,  if  all  goes  well,  The 
Fleep — in  portrait  and  in  prose — will  soon 
make  its  appearance  on  the  nation's  book- 
shelves to  the  delight  of  children  of  all 
ages. 

The  acid  test  of  the  value  of  letting  the 
king  be  king  was  applied  when  Howard 
and  Ida  decided,  some  time  ago,  that  they 
had  outgrown  the  apartment  in  which 
they  had  started  married  life. 

Howard  had  some  explicit  ideas  about 
where  the  house  was  to  be,  how  much 
could  be  invested,  and  how  the  floor  plan 
should  be  carried  out.  They  must  have 
privacy,  yet  they  could  not  be  too  isolated 
from  film  and  telecasting  studios;  the 
price  must  not  exceed  such  and  such  an 
amount;  the  layout  as  to  kitchen,  dining 
room,  living  room,  den,  bedrooms,  pool, 
patio  and  entrance  should  follow  a  Duff 
outline — which  he  supplied. 

"You  look  for  the  house,"  he  told  Ida, 
"while   I'm  finishing  my   picture." 

Ida  maintained  a  wifely  calm,  but  ven- 
tured— in  the  words  of  the  Canadian 
trapper  upon  seeing  a  giraffe  for  the  first 
time — "There  just  ain't  no  such  animal," 
as  she  scanned  Howard's  list  of  architec- 
tural essentials. 

Undaunted  and  unimpressed,  Howard 
replied,  "Look,  if  I  can  think  up  a  per- 
fectly logical  floor  plan,  knowing  that 
most  floor  plans  aren't  logical,  you  can 
bet  some  first-rate  architect  has  been 
building  along  those  lines  for  a  long  time. 
Probably  we'll  be  able  to  choose  from 
several  satisfactory  houses." 

Mrs.  Duff  laughed  a  hollow  laugh,  half 


in  admiration  of  such  optimistic  naivete, 
half  in  exasperation.  Yet,  such  is  her  con- 
cept of  wifery  that  she  set  out  at  once 
to  locate  Howard's  dream  house. 

She  looked  and  she  looked.  Days  went 
by.  Weeks.  Months.  Years — two  of  them. 
A  lone  satisfaction  was  discernible:  Each 
hour  spent  in  the  search  reduced  the  pos- 
sible number  of  future  hours  to  be  spent 
the  same  way.  Even  in  Greater  Los  An- 
geles, there  is  a  limit  to  available  housing. 

One  late  afternoon,  Ida  ran  out  of  gas 
in  a  remote  section  of  Bel  Air.  She  tried 
to  flag  down  several  motorists,  but  drivers 
are  wary  of  hitchhikers.  Ida  had  resigned 
herself  to  removing  her  spike  heels  and 
hiking  "x"  miles  to  a  filling  station,  when 
a  lady  stopped  to  offer  a  lift. 

There  is  nothing  so  comforting  to  a  foot- 
sore, heartsore,  and  headaching  woman 
as  the  sympathetic  ear  of  a  cheerful 
stranger.  Ida  poured  out  her  woes  in  a 
torrent. 

The  Samaritan,  obviously  supplied  on 
the  spot  by  St.  Jude  (patron  saint  of  the 
impossible),  began  to  smile.  "Oddly 
enough,  I'm  a  realtor,"  she  said.  "In  my 
purse  I  have  the  key  for  the  house  you 
have  just  described.  Secluded,  yet  not  iso- 
lated. Price  somewhat  more  than  you  have 
mentioned,  but  worth  it.  Floor  plan  identi- 
cal to  your  husband's  mental  blueprint. 
Would  you  like  to  see  it?" 

Ida  strolled  around  the  house  incred- 
ulously. It  was  a  miracle.  Then,  courtesy 
of  the  realtor,  she  refueled  her  car  and 
went  home  to  give  Howard  the  good  word. 
He  failed  to  exhibit  any  surprise  what- 
soever. (More  husbands  escape  more  lethal 
accidents  because  of  the  proper  training  of 
wives,  'way  back  in  childhood.) 

The  following  day,  he  inspected  the 
house,  agreed  to  meet  the  slightly  higher 
price,  told  Ida  that  she  was  a  genius,  and 
now,  if  she  would  plan  the  redecoration, 
select  the  furnishings,  and  arrange  a  mov- 
ing date,  he  would  transport  his  own  books, 
recordings,  and  similar  priceless  posses- 
sions. 

"Oh,  one  thing — lots  of  blue  around.  You 
know — about  the  color  of  your  eyes." 

"Lots  of  blue,"  agreed  Ida,  basking  in 
her  spouse's  obvious  admiration. 

The  fireplace  in  the  living  room  was 
white  fieldstone;  in  the  den,  used  brick. 
So  Ida  combined  shades  of  blue  and  white 
with  a  muted  rose-red  to  establish  a  color 
scheme  against  which  to  use  brass  ac- 
cessories   and    Early    American    furniture. 

The  Duffs  moved  in,  and  Howard  could 
be  located  at  various  hours,  merely  stroll- 
ing through  the  rooms.  "Tomorrow  night," 
he  suggested,  "let's  ask  good  old  Jack  out 
for  dinner."  (Good  old  Jack  being  a 
tennis  buddy.) 

A  few  days  later,  it  was  "good  old 
George,"  followed  by  a  parade  of  Howard's 
chums.  Sehor  Duff,  long  noted  for  his 
restlessness,  his  inability  to  stay  put  in 
one  spot  for  long  periods  of  time,  his  gypsy 
foot  and  gypsy  heart,  had  become  a  home- 
body. Sunk  deep  in  a  foam-rubber  sofa, 
his  feet  on  the  fireplace  fender,  he  in- 
vited the  world  to  find  its  way  to  his 
hearthside  felicity. 

What  wife  wouldn't  consider  two  years 
of  research  a  small  investment  for  such 
rich   returns! 

"It  would  have  been  easy,  several  times," 
Ida  observes,  "to  have  given  up  and  an- 
nounced that  we  would  just  have  to  take 
what  seemed  to  be  available.  But  that 
would  have  been  an  example  of  the  impos- 
ing of  wifely  will,  and  I  felt  that  it  would 
be  a  mistake.  As  it  worked  out,  my  dogged 
following  of  instructions  has  brought  us 
lasting  satisfaction.  The  king  is  still  king — 
and  a  contented  king,  at  that — making 
possible  that  famous  line  with  which  all 
love  stories  should  end,  'And  so  they  lived 
happily  ever  after.' " 


DO  ANY  OF  THESE 

PROBLEMS 

GET  YOU  DOWN? 


•  How  I   can  Tell   My  Fiance 
about  my  Past 

•  How  to  Cope  with  a  Jeal- 
ous Husband 

•  Understanding  Your  In-Laws 

•  Meeting     the     Demands    of 
Growing  Older 

•  Is  Artificial  Insemination  the 
Answer  for  Childlessness? 


•  Can  a  Divorcee  Start  Anew? 

•  Should    We    Break    Off    or 
Should    We    Marry? 

•  How    Should    Teenagers 
Handle  Love? 

•  How    Can    We    Help    Our 
Children? 

•  Getting    a    Part-time    or    a 
Full-time  Job 


Get  the  Answers  to  These  and  Many  Other 
Questions  from  "WHAT  SHOULD  I  DO? 

the  Question  and  Answer  Guide  to  Solving  Your  Personal  Problems 


Here,  at  last,  is  a  book  with  intimate  insight 
into   your    most    personal    problems — the   ques- 
tions you  would   like  to  ask — the  questions  so 
prevalent  in  our  modern,  complex  way  of  life. 
These    aren't    hypothetical    cases,    but   actual 
letters  from  real   people — selected  from  over 
50,000  written  to  the  Editors  of  True  Story 
Magazine    since    the    feature    started.    They 
have  been  answered  with  honesty,  sincerity, 
and   deep   understanding.   Each   question   is 
analyzed     clearly    and    answered     reliably, 
with  a  profound  respect  for  the  deep  needs 
of   the    men    and   women    who   are    facing 
these    problems    and   those    who    may    en- 
counter   them    in    the    future.    This    useful 
book  also  contains  an  appendix  which  lists 
sources  of  additional   help. 


THESE  are  typical  excerpts  from  the       WHERE  ELSE  can  you  find   so   much 

help — so  quickly  and  easily — without 
leaving  the  privacy  of  your  home?  Just 
send   in  the   coupon   below   and   $1.00 


hundreds   of   actual    letters    contained 
in  "WHAT  SHOULD  I   DO?": 


"My  husband  and  I  get  along 
wonderfully  together,  but  we 
aren't  happy  in  our  physical  re- 
lations .  .  ." 

"I  am  fifteen  and  a  sophomore 
in  high  school.  I'm  not  bad-look- 
ing, but  I  have  never  been  asked 
for  a  date  ..." 

"How  do  you  tell  a  twelve-year- 
old   boy  the  facts  of   life?   ..." 

"How  can  I  keep  my  mother-in- 
law  from   interfering?   .   .   ." 


for  YOUR  copy  of  "WHAT  SHOULD 
I  DO?" 


MAIL 

COUPON 

TODAY! 

Bartholomew  House, 

Inc. 

.  Dept.WG857 

205  E.  42nd  St.,  New  York  17.  N.  Y. 

Send    me   a    copy   of 
DO?"   1  enclose  $1.00 

'WHAT  SHOULD    1 

NAME 

(Please 

PrinJ 

) 

STREET  .... 

CITY 

. .    STATE 

69 


Be  a  Cool  Warm- Weather  Hostess 


(Continued  from  page  52) 
housewife  in  a  large  New  York  City  apart- 
ment  and   a   delightful   summer   home   at 
Mt.  Kisco,  New  York. 

In  New  York,  there  is  a  couple  to  help 
run  the  apartment.  But,  in  the  summer, 
there  is  only  household  help  by  the  day, 
as  required,  and  Arlene  is  the  cook.  Even 
for  weekend  guests.  She  likes  it  that  way. 
Homemaking  and  career  go  together  for 
her.  Somehow,  she  finds  time  for  every- 
thing. 

The  Gabels  love  to  entertain  in  their 
new  nine-room  house,  of  split-level  de- 
sign to  fit  the  hilltop  to  which  it  clings. 
"High  on  a  windy  hill,"  Arlene  describes  it. 
"I  want  to  share  the  view  with  everyone. 

"But  I  like  to  be  part  of  my  own  parties, 
and  that  means  a  little  planning.  I  sup- 
pose I  am  a  good  organizer,  but  I  am  not 
a  list-maker.  I  am  not  that  methodical. 
I  simply  jot  down  notes  during  the  day, 
later  gathering  them  up  and  checking  off 
what  has  been  done  and  what  remains  to 
do.  Planning  menus  for  guests,  reminding 
myself  to  get  the  ingredients  for  some 
extra-special  dish  I  want  to  serve,  to  stock 
up  on  several  brands  of  cigarettes,  to 
check  the  supply  of  soft  drinks,  the  paper 
napkins.  Reminding  myself  to  lay  in  such 
items  as  extra  toothbrushes  for  overnight 
guests  who  may  forget  theirs,  tissues  and 
disposable  powder  puffs;  all  the  small 
things  that  add  to  a  guest's  comfort  and 
keep  a  hostess  from  getting  flustered." 

Under  organization,  too,  comes  the 
choosing  of  guests  who  will  be  congenial. 
People  on  somewhat  chilly  terms  aren't 
invited  the  same  weekend.  People  who 
enjoy  the  same  kind  of  thing  are  usually 
teamed  up,  although  there's  no  hard-and- 
fast  rule  about  it.  An  "outsider,"  new  to 
a  group,  is  often  stimulating.  You  choose 
friends  you  want  to  ask  at  the  time,  barring 
any  real  maladjustment  with  others  in- 
vited, and,  strangely  enough,  the  most  un- 
likely combinations  have  been  known  to 
click  amazingly  well. 

Oetting  a  time  for  arrival  and  departure, 
at  the  moment  of  issuing  any  invitation,  is 
always  proper.  In  fact,  it's  highly  desir- 
able. A  good  guest  comes  prepared  to 
abide  by  this  and,  if  departure  must  be  at 
some  inconvenient  hour,  makes  it  known 
as  soon  as  possible,  so  plans  may  be  made 
accordingly.  Cooperative  guests  are  a 
boon  to  successful  weekending,  and  happy 
is  the  hostess  who  has  them! 

"If  one  of  my  friends  shows  up  a  little 
earlier  than  expected,  maybe  when  I'm 
combing  my  hair  or  putting  the  finishing 
touches  to  something  in  the  kitchen,  I 
would  think  it  the  height  of  rudeness  to 
act  upset  or  embarrassed,  or  to  embarrass 
her,"  Arlene  stresses.  "Why  should  anyone 
be  flustered?  She  can  follow  me  wher- 
ever I'm  working  and  we  can  have  a 
little  early  visit  by  ourselves  while  I  go 
on  with  whatever  I'm  doing.  Or,  if  it 
makes  things  easier,  there  is  always  a 
comfortable  chair  and  a  book  or  magazine, 
or  television  to  entertain  her  while  she 
waits  for  me  to  catch  up.  Cold  drinks  are 
ready,  of  course,  so  an  early  guest,  male 
or  female,  can  relax  and  cool  off.  Off-beat 
timing  is  one  of  the  hazards  of  being  a 
hostess,  and  surely  a  minor  one." 

Their  limit  for  house  guests  is  usually 
four,    the    capacity    of   their    sleeping    ar- 
rangements, but  there  are  always  friends 
who  are  invited  to  drive  up  for  the  day 
or  who   come  in   for   dinner.     Good  food 
T    and    beverages,    an    easy    manner,    good 
v    conversation    mingled    with    good    humor, 
R     informality,  a  choice  of  outdoor  activities 
and  indoor  entertainment,  rest  and  relaxa- 
tion are  what  they  find. 
70 


For  weekenders,  there  is  a  flexible  re- 
gime for  meals,  compatible  with  country 
informality,  and  everyone  is  fed  with  the 
minimum  of  work  and  fuss.  Behind  the 
scenes,  before  anyone's  arrival,  the  work 
has  been  going  on  and  now  all  is  ready. 

Guests  get  up  in  the  morning  when  they 
want  to,  but  early  risers  find  all  the  in- 
gredients for  a  quick  breakfast  in  the 
kitchen,  including  one  of  the  instant 
coffees  for  those  who  can  hardly  wait  for 
that  first  cup.  Young  Peter  shines  as  a 
breakfast  host,  especially  if  there  is  a 
visiting  child.  He  follows  the  household 
rule  of  not  disturbing  grownups — until 
the  grownups  disturb  him! — takes  com- 
plete charge  of  the  guests'  comfort, 
squeezes  the  orange  juice,  uses  the  electric 
toaster,  fills  the  glasses  with  milk.  All 
without  undue  noise,  until  the  adults  be- 
gin to  appear  for  their  fruit  and  coffee, 
waffles  with  bacon  or  sausages,  or  ham 
and  eggs. 

If  breakfast  has  been  a  late  meal  for  all, 
luncheon  is  often  a  snack  when  and  as  the 
guests  want  it.  Plates  of  sandwiches  are 
put  out,  salad,  cookies,  fruit.  If  everyone 
wants  a  regular  lunch,  it's  usually  a  sit- 
down  meal,  often  with  additional  guests 
joining  the  house  party. 

Dinner  in  the  country  is  almost  always 
served  buffet  style.  This  makes  serving 
easier,  especially  for  many  guests,  and 
eating  more  leisurely;  gives  hungry  people 
a  chance  to  start  early  and  go  back  for 
seconds  or  thirds,  while  the  ones  who  like 
to  approach  a  meal  more  slowly  can  take 
their  time. 

It's  Arlene's  idea  that,  in  a  small  house, 
it  is  easier  for  the  hostess  to  work  alone,  no 
matter  how  kind  a  guest  may  be  about 
offering  to  assist:  "I  plan  one-dish  din- 
ners mostly;  big,  satisfying  casseroles,  not 
too  fancy  or  too  highly-seasoned  in  warm 
weather.  Something  I  can  prepare  ahead 
and  re-heat,  such  as  a  couple  of  our 
favorites,  beef  Stroganoff  or  shrimp  Creole. 
All  tried-and-tested  recipes,  I  might  add. 
A  hostess  takes  a  big  chance  if  she  experi- 
ments with  new  dishes  when  she  has 
guests. 

"If,  in  spite  of  all  my  care,  something 
goes  wrong  with  some  part  of  the  dinner, 
I  don't  apologize.  Instead,  I  improvise, 
quickly  concoct  something  else  to  take  its 
place.  I'm  sure  every  housewife  knows 
what  I  mean.  Too  many  apologies  about 
anything  that  happens  makes  guests  un- 
comfortable. Somehow,  they  feel  at  fault, 
just  by  being  there." 

Foods  that  add  appetite -appeal  to  the 
buffet  are  some  simple  canapes,  olives  and 
celery  and  carrot  sticks,  jellied  madrilene 
or  a  cold  vichysoisse  topped  with  chopped 
chives  or  parsley  for  a  festive,  summery 
look.  They  take  very  little  preparation, 
can  all  be  taken  from  the  refrigerator  at 
the  last  moment.  So  can  a  heaping  bowl 
of  salad,  with  several  dressings  on  the  side 
for  easy  choice.  And  the  summer  desserts, 
the  sherbets  and  ice  cream,  fresh  fruit  and 
berries  with  cream.  With  mints  to  top  it 
off,  coffee,  and  tea  available  for  those  who 
prefer  it,  the  buffet  is  complete.  Enough 
to  satisfy  the  hungriest  male  who  has  just 
come  in  from  the  golf  course  or  an  after- 
noon in  the  Gabels'  big  new  swimming 
pool.  ("Not  filled  with  water,  you  might 
say,"  is  Arlene's  comment,  "but  with  my 
blood,  sweat  and  toil!  Because  that  pool  I 
paid  for  out  of  my  work — which  I  love 
doing,  but  which  is,  nevertheless  hard  work 
every  day.") 

Guests  who  want  to  refill  glasses,  and 
empty  overflowing  ashtrays  (ever  notice 
how  fast  they  fill  up,  no  matter  how  much 
bigger  and  deeper  they  get  all  the  time?) 


are  always  appreciated,  but  a  good  guest 
never  insists  on  going  into  the  kitchen  if 
her  offer  to  help  is  tactfully  turned  down. 
There's  a  reason,  of  course.  The  usual 
house  guest  doesn't  know  where  every- 
thing is  kept,  and  how  things  are  to  be 
served,  and  she  becomes  more  of  a  hin- 
drance than  a  help.  If  your  hostess  says  yes, 
that's  your  cue,  but  a  no  is  also  a  cue. 
Arlene  usually  says  no,  as  has  been  stated, 
not  because  she  is  unappreciative  but 
because  she  is  prepared  and  everything 
moves    efficiently. 

As  a  guest,  you  can  perform  a  real 
service  by  helping  entertain  the  others 
while  your  hostess  is  out  of  the  room — 
and  maybe  offering  your  services  again, 
not  too  insistently,  of  course,  when  the 
dishes  are  removed. 

Having  three  baths  for  the  three  bed- 
rooms solves  one  hostess  problem  for  Ar- 
lene. But,  in  many  homes,  bathroom  hours 
must  be  informally  allocated,  early  risers 
getting  done  and  out  before  the  late  ones 
take  over  the  lease.  (When  someone  else  is 
waiting  is  no  time  to  do  your  own  light 
laundry,  by  the  way.)  And  where  maid 
service  is  limited,  or  non-existent,  the 
thoughtful  guest  makes  up  her  own  bed 
and  tidies  her  room.  Arlene  herself  sees 
to  it  that  there  are  fresh  flowers  in  the 
bedrooms,  as  well  as  all  over  the  house, 
flowers  being  her  passion.  She  puts  out 
magazines  and  books  on  bedside  tables, 
checks  reading  lamps,  lays  out  extra  covers 
and  sees  that  the  Sunday  paper  is  handy. 

Guests  who  bring  along  comfortable 
country  shoes  and  appropriate  clothes  are 
more  appreciated  than  the  city  slickers 
who  have  to  worry  about  ruined  high- 
heeled  slippers  and  mud-spattered  silks. 
Your  hostess  always  appreciates  the  com- 
pliment of  having  you  dress  up  for  some 
special  occasion,  and  usually  lets  you  know 
in  advance  if  this  is  on  the  schedule.  As 
a  hostess,  this  is  a  good  rule  to  follow;  as 
a  guest,  you  might  ask  before  you  pack. 

There's  something  else  important:  Most 
people  invite  both  sexes  because  they 
like  that  arrangement,  but  somehow  or 
other  a  party  seems  to  divide  itself  into 
two  "sides,"  with  the  men  on  one  and  the 
girls  on  the  other.  A  good  guest  can  help, 
and  a  good  hostess  steps  in  and  does  her 
part  to  break  this  up.  In  most  cases,  people 
are  at  their  best  when  left  to  talk  about 
the  things  that  interest  them  most.  How- 
ever, if  a  subject  is  special  to  one  person, 
it  should  be  dropped  before  it  gets  boring. 

"Even  if  you  are  in  the  entertainment 
business,  as  Martin  and  I  are,  and  as  many 
of  our  friends  are,"  Arlene  notes,  "the 
'shop  talk'  can  grow  tiresome  to  people 
who  aren't,  no  matter  how  fascinating  they 
may  find  it  at  first.  Conversation  in  a  room 
filled  with  people  should  include  many  of 
them.  If  a  couple  of  guests  find  mutual 
interest  in  some  subject,  of  course,  don't  be 
a  spoil-sport — up  to  a  point.  And  an  occa- 
sional lull  in  general  conversation  doesn't 
mean  the  party's  getting  dull.  A  little 
silence  can  be  restful,  especially  on  a  long 
weekend." 

General  rules  for  guiding  conversation 
might  include  an  effort  to  steer  a  too- 
heated  or  too-personal  discussion  to  some- 
thing else  less  flammable,  if  you  can!  The 
same  goes  for  long  discourses  on  petty 
domestic  problems,  if  you're  dealing  with 
women,  and  petty  gossip,  if  you're  dealing 
with  either  sex. 

Planned  activities  are  fine,  if  they're  not 
too  planned  or  too  active  all  the  time. 
Weekends  are  for  recreation,  but  also  for 
relaxation.  Hikes  may  be  an  anathema  to 
those  who  never  walk  a  block  at  home. 
Boats    are    ditto   for    those    who    fear   the 


water  and  never  get  into  anything  larger 
than  a  bathtub.  If  a  guest  prefers  to  nap 
while  the  others  play  tennis,  let  him  do  it. 
If  someone  wants  to  watch  birds,  that's 
recreation,  too. 

People  who  get  enough  television  at 
home  should  be  allowed  to  wander  into 
another  room,  or  to  take  a  walk.  Those  who 
wouldn't  miss  a  favorite  program  for  the 
best  party  you  could  give  should  be  al- 
lowed to  watch  in  at  least  comparative 
peace  and  quiet.  It's  all  optional,  if  the  party 
is  to  be  a  success  and  the  guests  happy. 

Many  people  like  games,  but  the  Gabels 
happen  to  prefer  conversation.  If  games 
are  played,  they  are  usually  word  games 
of  some  kind,  writing  games,  mental  games. 
People  who  think  that  any  game  is  just 
another  form  of  work  aren't  coaxed  to 
join.  They  can  read.  At  the  Gabels',  this 
isn't  much  of  a  problem.  It's  mostly  talk — 
interesting,  exciting,  with  everybody  join- 
ing in,  and  no  one  running  out  of  any- 
thing to  say.  (As  it  usually  is  with  groups 
of  good  friends.) 

"We  are  happy  to  see  that  Peter  is  at 
ease  with  adults,  but  even  more  so  with 
children  of  his  own  age,  and  the  younger 
ones,"  says  Arlene.  "He  is  flexible  and 
kind.  If  a  child  wants  to  bicycle  and  Peter 
has  suggested  ball  instead,  he  will  get  on 
his  bicycle  first  and  merely  ask  if  later 
they  might  play  ball.  He  respects  the  pri- 
vacy of  our  guests,  seems  to  sense  when 
adults  have  tired  of  playing  a  small  boy's 
games  and  want  to  retreat  back  into  their 
own  world." 

The  country  house  was  really  bought 
because  of  Peter.  It  began  as  a  "token" 
house  put  in  his  stocking  last  Christmas. 
When  he  questioned  what  the  tiny  house 
meant,  Arlene  told  him  it  was  the  symbol 
of  the  one  they  would  have,  so  he  antici- 
pated every  moment  the  summer  has 
brought  and  is  enormously  happy  about 
everything  concerned  with  it,  careful  about 
the  furniture,  interested  in  seeing  it  beau- 
tifully kept.  Eager  to  have  his  friends,  and 
his  parents'  friends,  enjoy  it. 

In  fact,  no  minor  or  even  major  accident 
is  allowed  to  mar  a  guest's  visit — a  spilled 
cup  of  coffee,  a  burn  from  a  cigarette  too 
carelessly  laid  on  an  ashtray,  a  broken 
dish.  Better  a  happy  memory  of  a  visit 
than  everything  left  in  perfect  condition  is' 
a  motto  every  hostess  should  tack  up  in  her 
mind.  The  hostess  has  a  responsibility  to 
have  enough  ashtrays,  enough  secure 
places  to  lay  empty  glasses  and  used  dishes, 
enough  lights  in  hallways  and  on  stairs, 
and    the    like. 

The  matter  of  a  hostess  gift  often  looms 
up  to  dismay  the  guest  who  wants  to  bring 
one  and  doesn't  know  what  to  buy.  Imagi- 
nation, and  a  little  interest  in  your  hostess' 
tastes,  are  far  more  important  here  than 
the  present's  value.  Where  there  is  a  child, 
the  parents  are  often  glad  if  he  is  remem- 
bered, but  with  something  of  small  value. 
Actually,  the  hostess  gift  is  a  pleasant  way 
of  saying  thank  you  for  an  invitation  ex- 
tended, but  it  in  no  way  takes  the  place 
of  a  written  or  telephoned  thanks  quickly 
following  the  visit.  Thanks  should  be  ex- 
tended also  to  the  host,  or  to  a  parent 
or  anyone  else  who  helped  to  make  the 
visit  memorable. 

It  might  be  mentioned  that  a  good  guest 
checks  belongings  both  when  packing  and 
before  leaving.  It's  an  extra  chore  for  the 
hostess  to  send  back  all  sorts  of  oddments 
left  behind  by  departing  friends,  no  matter 
how  much  she  loves  them. 

These,  of  course,  are  merely  tips  on 
summer  hostessing  and  summer  guesting, 
not  guaranteed  to  cover  every  situation. 
Only  a  guide  to  getting  organized  and 
prepared  ahead  of  time,  and  having  a  re- 
laxed and  happy  weekend.  The  kind  they 
have  been  having  at  Arlene  Francis's 
house  this  summer. 


IS 


the  new  Elvis? 


Now — for  the  first  time — the 
complete  Tommy  Sands  story. 
Don't  miss  this  exciting  book  on 
a  new  skyrocketing  performer. 
TOMMY  SANDS— His  Life  Story 
— Over  125  photos. 


WILL  SANDS  REPLACE  ELYIS  PRESLEY? 

NOW  AT  ALL   NEWSSTANDS— 35c 

If  your  newsdealer  has  sold  out,  use  this  coupon. 


BARTH   HOUSE,   INC 

205  E.  42  ST.,  NEW  YORK   17,  N.  Y. 

SIRS: 

I  ENCLOSE  35c.     PLEASE  RUSH  THE  NEW  TOMMY  SANDS 
BOOK  TO  ME. 


NAME. 


ADDRESS 


PLEASE   PRINT 


CITY ZONE STATE. 


71 


(Continued  from  page  24) 
don't  differentiate  between  'working 
mothers'  who  may  choose  to  stay  at 
home  with  their  kids,  cooking,  and  PTA — 
and  'working  mothers'  who  are  off  to  a 
nine-to-five  job.  Both  are  surely  working 
toward  some  family  dream.  With  Bill,  the 
children  and  me,  our  dream  is  retire- 
ment in  five  years — so  we  can  really  en- 
joy and  devote  time  to  the  kids  when  we 
feel  they  will  most  need  our  direction: 
Jody  will  then  be  fifteen;  Billy,  Jr., 
eleven;  and  Nita,  nine. 

"However,  it  wasn't  necessary  for  me 
to  go  to  work  full-time  in  a  series,  for 
our  own  personal  family  plan  to  come  to 
fruit — Bill's  success  has  been  assured  for 
years  now.  Actually,  I  looked  on  the 
series  as  being  good  for  the  children.  Why? 
Because  they  need  the  security  of  know- 
ing they  will  see  their  mother  at  certain 
definite  hours.  On  a  series,  I  can  give 
them  that  knowledge — whereas,  when  I'm 
doing  only  occasional  shows,  they  never 
know  when  to  expect  me  home.  For  chil- 
dren our  youngsters'  age,  this  uncer- 
tainty is  no  good." 

It  is  for  this  reason  that  Barbara  and 
Bill  work  extra  hard  to  come  up  with 
ideas  in  which  the  entire  family  can  join 
forces.  "Saturdays  and  Sundays,"  says  Bill, 
"those  are  the  two  most  important  days 
in  the  week  to  our  family.  Barbara  and  I 
are  always  with  the  kids.  We  swim  in  the 
summer,  have  barbecues  and  picnics.  Fre- 
quently, after  church  on  Sunday,  Barbara 
rushes  home  to  make  a  basketful  of  sand- 
wiches, we  throw  the  bikes  into  our  Ply- 
mouth station  wagon  and  drive  out  to 
the  west  end  of  the  San  Fernando  Valley, 
where  we  can  ride  without  worrying  about 
traffic.  Even  four-year-old  Nita  goes 
along.  I  used  to  carry  her  in  a  basket  on 
my  handlebars — now  she  has  a  three- 
wheeler  of  her  own.  We  literally  have  a 
ball.  Besides,  the  bike-riding  keeps  Bar- 
bara's waist  down."  (An  uncalled  for  re- 
mark, which  Barbara  chooses  to  ignore.) 
Bill,  who  works  four  days  a  week  on 
his  Date  With  The  Angels  series  with 
Betty  White,  is  a  friendly  kind  of  father 
who  looks  after  his  cubs  both  proudly 
and  protectively.  The  big  Early  American 
easy-chair  in  front  of  the  living-room 
fireplace  is  his  favorite  spot  in  the  house. 
One  thing  he  says  gives  him  the  greatest 
pleasure  in  life  is  curling  up  in  that  chair 
with  Billy  under  one  arm  and  Nita  under 
the  other,  reading  Mother  Goose.  (To 

Billy,    he    also    reads    "The    Tales    of   Kit 
Carson.") 

Later  in  the  evening,  during  the  school 
season,  he  and  Barbara  sit  down  with 
older  daughter  Jody  for  a  crack  at  the 
homework.  "I  handle  the  English,  history 
and  social  studies,"  says  Barbara.  "Bill 
does  the  math  and  lit.  Usually,  I'll  work 
with  Jody  first — the  real  reason  being 
that,  after  I  check  Jody's  answers,  I 
want  Bill  to  check  mine!  Believe  me,  I'm 
trying  very  hard  right  now  with  fractions 
.  .  .  Jody  is  teaching  me  a  great  deal.  In 
fact,  I  think  I'm  learning  as  much  as  she 
is." 

In  summer,  the  family  literally  camps 
by  their  pool.  Barbara  and  Bill  have  a 
unique  system  for  announcing  to  the 
neighborhood  kids  at  large  that  the  pool 
is  now  "in  session."  Barb  put  up  a  flag- 
pole last  season  which  can  be  seen  for 
some  six  square  blocks — or  so  it  seems, 
from    the    number    of    kids    who    come 

J  a-running.  "I  don't  recognize  half  of  them," 
says  Barb.  "When  the  flag  is  up,  either 
Bill  or  I  are  there— we  have  to  get  our 
sun,  too,  so  we  might  as  well  play  life- 

_    guard,  and  the  kids  know  they  are  wel- 

72 


Almost  Like  Angels 

come.  Also,  when  the  flag  is  flying,  the 
neighborhood  mothers  know  their  chil- 
dren are  safe." 

"Last  month,"  laughed  Bill,  "a  new  fam- 
ily moved  in  down  the  street.  The  woman, 
seeing  the  flag  flying  'most  every  day  and 
not  yet  knowing  its  significance,  remarked 
to  her  neighbors  that,  having  personally 
found  it  difficult  to  fly  the  flag  every 
Fourth  of  July,  she  certainly  respected  a 
woman  as  obviously  patriotic  as  Barbara!" 

The  pool,  back  yard  and  garden  are  a 
summer  home  for  Bill,  Barbara  and  the 
kids.  Bill  laid  out  an  area,  one  hundred 
feet  by  a  hundred-fifty,  so  there  would  be 
room  enough  for  all  the  family's  activi- 
ties. Barbecues  and  baseball,  for  one. 
Gardening,  for  another — everybody  joins 
in  the  hoeing,  weeding  and  planting  fun. 
"When  Billy  was  five,"  Barbara  recalls,  "we 
thought  it  would  be  a  good  idea  if  he 
planted  something  of  his  own — help  teach 
him  pride  of  ownership  and  the  miracle 
of  growth. 

"We  gave  him  a  package  of  corn  seeds 
because  they  were  large  enough  for  him 
to  hold  easily  in  his  tiny  hands.  Corn 
becomes  a  giant  of  a  plant  to  a  little  tyke 
like  Billy  Junior,  and  it  grows  fast  enough 
so  that  he  could  watch  its  progress  from 
day  to  day — an  important  consideration 
when  you  are  trying  to  teach  the  miracle 
of  growth  to  a  five-year-old. 

"Throwing  caution  to  the  winds,  I  gave 
Billy  the  entire  package  of  seeds,  saying, 
'Now,  Billy,  you  plant  these  just  like 
Mother  is  doing.'  He  started  out  well 
enough,  with  a  straight  line  of  corn  in  the 
vegetable  garden.  But,  in  five  minutes,  he 
became  tired  of  that  part  of  the  yard, 
traipsing  over  to  the  flower  bed.  From 
there,  he  threw  his  seedlsts  willy-nilly. 
Have  you  ever  seen  a  yard  with  cornstalks 
growing  in  the  middle  of  the  pansy  plot 
and  coming  straight  out  of  the  lawn? 

"I  told  Bill  Senior — who  does  most  of 
our  gardening — that  I  wanted  to  move 
them.  He  said  he  wouldn't  think  of  it. 
Freshest  landscaping  idea  he'd  seen  in 
years.  Practical,  too. 

"That,  by  the  way,  was  the  year  I  bought 
twenty-six  packets  of  flower  seeds — the 
pictures  were  lovely.  I  intended  saving 
the  expense  of  a  gardener  and  doing  the 
planting  myself.  The  last  day,  Nita  asked, 
'Mom,  what  you  doing?  May  I  help?'  I 
said,  'Sure,  here  is  a  package  of  some 
pretty  flowers.  Why  don't  you  put  them 
over  there  by  the  pool?'  She  did.  She 
simply  threw  them  on  the  ground.  You 
know  whose  flowers  grew?  Nita's,  of 
course.  Not  mine.  Nita's  took  off  like  wild 
flowers,  and  that's  just  what  they  turned 
out  to  be — now,  we  can't  get  rid  of  them." 

Another  element  which  helps  keep  the 
family  together  is  the  fact  that  the  chil- 
dren sometimes  work  with  their  parents 
on  the  motion-picture  and  television  sets. 
"We  let  them  work  with  us  for  three 
reasons,"  says  Barbara.  "First,  we  want 
them  to  know  that  what  we  do  is  work, 
not  play.  True,  there  is  a  certain  amount 
of  glamour  to  be  found  in  pictures;  but, 
as  you  shall  see,  that  is  all  on  the  screen 
and  not  behind  the  camera.  Second,  all 
children  want  to  mimic  their  parents — 
to  be  the  sort  of  man  their  dad  is.  Since 
we  are  proud  of  our  occupation,  we  en- 
courage their  interest.  Third  and  last,  be- 
ing with  the  children  on  the  set  gives  us 
that  much  more  precious  time  with  them. 

"Jody  was  the  first  to  be  after  us  with 
the  plaintive,  T  want  a  job.'  So  we  let  her 
work  with  me  one  day  last  year,  on  a 
picture  I  did  with  Joel  McCrea  called 
'The  Oklahoman.'  To  begin  with,  she  was 
upset  because  she  thought  that  every- 
body who   worked   in  a   Western  rode   a 


horse.  She  didn't.  On  top  of  that  humil- 
iation, she  found  she  had  to  wear  a  long, 
old-fashioned  dress — over  a  set  of  petti- 
coats— plus  a  pair  of  long  white  wool 
stockings.  All  this  on  a  hot,  hot  day. 

"Next,  she  discovered,  to  her  disgust, 
that — even  on  a  movie  set — she  had  to  go 
to  school.  That  discouraged  her  ambition, 
too.  But  what  really  sent  her  into  a  tizzy 
was  the  check  she  picked  up  at  the  end  of 
the  day  for  her  work.  Two  dollars  and 
sixty-three  cents  were  taken  out  for  with- 
holding. 'What's  this  withholding?'  she 
inquired.  So,  with  the  check  in  hand,  her 
daddy  had  a  chance  to  explain  about  taxes 
and  the  United  States  Government.  But, 
at  nine,  I  don't  suppose  the  children  know 
much  about  governments.  She  said,  'You 
mean,  somebody  is  going  to  keep  my  two 
dollars?'  When  Bill  assured  her  they  were, 
Jody  just  about  fainted.  'But,'  she  ex- 
claimed,   'That's    eight   weeks'   allowance!' 

"Billy,  Jr.,  had  to  have  his  job,  too," 
Barbara  continues.  "He  said  to  me  one 
day,  after  Jody  had  had  her  first  job,  'I 
don't  care  what  I  do,  I  want  a  job.'  'What 
do  you  want  to  do?'  I  asked.  'You're  too 
young  to  deliver  papers.'  'Not  that  kind 
of  a  job,'  he  said,  'but  another  kind  of 
job.'  'Exactly  what  do  you  mean?'  'I  don't 
know,'  he  replied,  'but  I  know  I  gotta 
get  me  a  job.' 

"About  five  minutes  later,  I  saw  him 
through  the  kitchen  window,  dressed  in 
his  Kit  Carson  cowboy  suit — (his  favor- 
ite). He  was  holding  Nita  by  the  hand — 
she  had  on  a  red  dress,  red  socks,  red  rib- 
bon in  her  hair  (everything  has  to  match 
these  days,  with  Nita) — and  they  were 
walking  up  to  the  minister's  house  in  the 
back.  Then  I  lost  sight.  Half  an  hour 
passed.  Then,  in  tramped  Kit  Carson, 
shouting,  'Well,  Mom,  I  got  my  job  .  .  . 
look  at  this!' — and  he  held  out  his  hand. 
'How  much  money  have  I  got?' 

"He  had  four  dimes  in  his  little  paw,  and 
Nita,  who  came  in  behind  him,  smiling, 
had  two  dimes.  'Well,'  I  said,  'you  have 
forty  cents,  and  Nita  has  twenty.'  'Boy!'  he 
said,  'I'm  going  right  out  again!'  I  looked 
at  him  suspiciously.  'Now  wait  a  second, 
young  man  .  .  .  come  back  here  and  tell 
me  what  you  did  to  get  that  money.' 

"He  looked  up  at  me  shyly,  from  under 
his  cowboy  hat,  and  slowly  explained, 
'Well,  now,  Mom,  you  know  those  pictures 
of  Dad  we  have  in  the  drawer  and  give 
to  school  kids  who  come  over?'  'Yes,'  I 
said.  'Well,  I  took  a  box  of  them  and  went 
around  to  a  few  houses.  I  just  ring  the 
doorbell  and  I  tell  them  that  we  don't 
have  any  money  and  they  buy  'em.' 

"I'm  glad  he  came  home  to  find  out  how 
much  money  he  had,"  Barbara  smiles. 
"Bill  Senior  and  I  laughed  over  this 
escapade  for  weeks." 

.Barbara  Hale  was  born  one  April  18,  in 
DeKalb,  Illinois.  Her  father,  Luther,  an 
excellent  landscape  architect,  and  her 
mother  and  older  sister  moved  to  Rock- 
ford  when  Barbara  was  four.  Barbara  went 
to  public  school  in  Rockford.  She  had  no 
desire  to  become  an  actress,  but  thought 
she'd  become  an  artist,  a  nurse,  or  a 
newspaper  reporter.  When  she  was  grad- 
uated from  high  school,  Barbara  entered 
the  Chicago  Academy  of  Fine  Arts,  where 
she  studied  commercial  art.  Most  of  the 
students,  though,  insisted  that  Barbara  be 
their  model.  She  modeled  more  than  she 
painted,  finally  devoted  all  of  her  time  to 
working  for  Corrine  and  Al  Seaman  at 
the  Chicago  Models  Bureau. 

Unknown  to  Barbara,  Al  Seaman  sent 
her  picture  to  a  Hollywood  studio  ex- 
ecutive with  whom  he  had  attended  school. 
A  few  weeks  later,  she  had  a  long-term 


RKO  contract  in  hand  and  was  on  her 
way  to  the  star-making  town.  But,  before 
she  skyrocketed  to  fame  as  Mrs.  Al  Jolson 
in  Columbia's  musical,  "Jolson  Sings 
Again,"  Barbara  met  her  future  husband. 

Bill  was  born  William  Katt,  May  21, 
1916,  in  Brooklyn,  New  York.  He  went  to 
school  at  P.S.  122,  Brooklyn  Tech  High 
School,  and  Pratt  Institute  in  Brooklyn, 
where  he  studied  construction  engineer- 
ing. During  his  school  days,  Bill  excelled 
in  sports,  especially  football,  baseball, 
hockey  and  gymnastics.  He  was  Junior 
National  Champ  in  the  220  and  440-yard 
free-style  swimming  events. 

After  leaving  school,  Bill  swam  for  the 
New  York  Athletic  Club  and  Dragon 
Swimming  Club.  He  then  formed  an  act 
which  played  a  year  at  the  Palladium  in 
London,  gave  a  command  performance  for 
the  royal  family,  toured  the  United  States, 
and  finally  opened  at  Earl  Carroll's  in 
Hollywood,  on  Christmas  Day  in  1942. 
While  playing  his  club  date,  Bill  studied 
celestial  navigation  at  the  Pan-American 
School,  and  he  gave  up  show  business  to 
become  a  shuttle  pilot  during  the  war. 
After  the  recurrence  of  an  old  spinal 
injury  forced  him  out,  he  came  back  to 
try  his  hand  in  the  motion -picture  field. 

.Barbara  and  Bill  met  on  his  first  pic- 
ture, "Murder  in  the  Blue  Room."  "Bill 
was  killed  in  the  second  reel,"  Barbara 
remembers.  "But  he  died  so  beautifully, 
I  knew  I  had  to  meet  him." 

Bill  and  Barbara  were  married  in  June, 
1946,  after  a  two-year  romance  which 
blossomed  idyllically  in  the  studio  com- 
missary, on  the  California  beaches  (they 
both  loved  swimming)  and  on  the  amuse- 
ment piers   (inexpensive  dates) . 

Barbara  Johanna  ("Jody"),  their  first 
child,  was  born  July  24,  1947.  William,  Jr., 
("Billy")  was  born  February  16,  1951. 
And  Juanita,  ("Nita"),  was  born  Decem- 
ber 22,  1953.  Barbara  and  Bill  have  had 
knock-down,  drag-out  fights  over  the  chil- 
dren's names.  Bill  insists  on  naming  them 
after  relatives — and  always  wins  out. 

Though  the  children  arrived  without 
mishaps,  Barbara  reports  that  little  Nita's 
appearance  on  the  scene  caused  a  certain 
amount  of  consternation  to  Billy.  "Where- 
as Jody  thought  Nita  was  the  most  won- 
derful thing  in  the  world  because  she  was 
a  little  girl,"  says  Barbara,  "Billy  felt  just 
the  opposite.  When  we  brought  Nita  home, 
Billy  packed  a  little  bag  and  sat  out  on 
the  front  porch.  He  was  too  afraid  to  leave 
the  porch,  but  he  knew  he  had  to  go  some 
place!" 

To  help  put  across  some  sex  education, 
Bill  and  Barbara  bought  a  cat  last  year — 
in  the  hope  that  this  year  she  would 
have  kittens.  She  will.  Billy,  Jr. — whose 
responsibility  it  is  to  feed  both  Mitzi,  the 
cat,  and  Punch,  their  great  collie  dog — 
says  proudly,  "Mitzi  is  going  to  have  kit- 
tens. She  eats  about  two  gallons  of  food 
.  .  .  but  thea,  she's  just  not  normal,  you 
know." 

A  more  "normal"  family  than  Bill  and 
Barbara  and  their  brood  of  three  would 
be  hard  to  find  in  these  United  States. 
Their  idea  of  making  it  the  family  busi- 
ness to  do  things  together,  as  much  as  pos- 
sible, has  paid  off  in  a  profit  of  smiles  and 
happy  children's  laughter  measured  by  the 
year  and  not  by  the  hour. 

"There's  just  one  thing,"  muses  Barbara. 
"My  husband's  other  wife — Betty  White 
over  at  ABC.  .  .  .  I'm  going  to  have  to  talk 
CBS  into  marrying  bachelor  Perry  Mason 
off  to  that  gal,  Delia  Street,  he's  been  see- 
ing so  much  of  lately.  .  .  ." 

Which  only  proves  there's  a  bit  of 
impishness  in  even  the  best-planned 
"heaven  on  earth" — and  that  there's  more 
fun  for  any  family  which  doesn't  try  to 
be  too  angelic! 


OPPORTUNITIES 

for  EVERYBODY 

Publisher's  Classified  Department  (Trademark) 


For  advertising  rates, write  to  William  R.  Stewart,  9  South  Clinton  Street,  Chicago  6  (Wom.-August)  7 


OF  INTEREST  TO  WOMEN 


$500  FOR  YOUR  Child's  Picture  (All  Ages).  Thousands  paid 
by  advertisers.  Send  one  small  picture.  Returned  with  judges' 
report.  Print  child's  parents'  name,  address  on  back.  Spotlite, 

8346-P8  Beverly,  Hollywood,  Calif. 

$200  MONTHLY  POSSIBLE,  Sewing  Babywear— Play-Time 
Dresses;  lacing  Leather  Mocassins!  New  Baby  Sandalsl  No 
house  selling  I  Rush  stamped,  addressed  envelope  for  further 

details.  Babygay,  Warsaw  1,  Indiana. 

$500  PAID  FOR  children's  photos,  all  ages,  if  used  for  adver- 
tising. Send  photo  for  approval.  Free  gifts.  Returned  two 
weeks.  Advertisers,  6000-YH  Sunset,  Hollywood  28,  California. 
$2.00  HOURLY  POSSIBLE  doing  light  assembly  work  at 
home.   Experience  unnecessary.    Crown   Industries,  8507-B 

West  Third,  Los  Angeles  48,  Calif. 

TOP  PRICES  PAID,  cutting  wanted  items  from  your  news- 
papers. Revealing  Instruction,  10c!  Economy,  Box  768,  Largo 

14,  Florida. 

EARN  SPARETIME  CASH  Mailing  Advertising  Literature. 

Glenway,  Box  6568,  Cleveland  1,  Ohio. 

SEW  OUR  READY  cut  aprons  at  home,  spare  time,  Easy, 

profitable.  Hanky  Aprons,  Caidwell  3,  Ark. 

EARN  $50  FAST  sewing  our  precut  products.  Information  3c. 

Thompson's,  Loganville,  Wisconsin. 

MAKE  MONEY  CLIPPING  Newspaper  Items  For  Publishers! 
Write,  Newscraft,  PW-983-E.  Main,  Columbus  5,  Ohio. 
$100.00,  $300.00  MONTHLY  Possible  Preparing  Mail  At 
home  (details  10c).  Novelty,  Box  78247,  Los  Angeles  16,  Calif. 
$200.  MONTHLY  REPORTED,  preparing  envelopes.  Reveal- 
ing  method,  25cl  Economy,  Box  768,  Largo  27,  Florida. 
WIVES— INCREASE  YOUR  family  income  sewing  babywear' 
for  stores.  Write  Tiny-Tot,  Gallipolis  19,  Ohio. 

HELP  WANTED 

BEAUTY  DEMONSTRATORS— TO  $5.00  hour  demonstrat- 
ing Famous  Hollywood  Cosmetics,  your  neighborhood.  For 
free  samples,  details,  write  Studio  Girl,  Dept.  1678C,  Glen- 

dale,  Calif. 

EARN  EXTRA  MONEY  selling  Advertising  Book  Matches. 
Free  sample  kit  furnished.  Matchcorp,  Dept.  WP-40,  Chicago 

32,  Illinois. 

HOMEWORKERS:  ASSEMBLE  HANDLACED  precut  moc- 
casins and  handbags.  Good  earnings.  California  Handicrafts, 

Los  Angeles  46-B,  California. 

IF  YOU  WANT  to  earn  money  fast,  I'll  send  you  Free  Sample 
Stocking  of  newest  Stretch  DuPont  Nylons  to  sell  at  only  $1 
a  pair.  American  Mills,  Dept.  615,  Indianapolis  7,  Ind. 

LOANS  BY  MAIL 

BORROW  $50  TO  $500.  Employed  men  and  women  over  25, 
eligible.  Confidential — no  co-signers — no  inquiries  of  employ- 
ers or  friends.  Repay  in  monthly  payments  to  fit  your  income. 
Supervised  by  State  of  Nebraska.  Loan  application  sent  free 
in  plain  envelope.  Give  occupation.  American  Loan  Plan, 
City  National  Bldg.,  Dept.  WD-8,  Omaha,  Nebraska. 

BUY  IT  WHOLESALE 

BUY  WHOLESALEI  30-80%  Discounts!  Appliances,  Gifts, 
Typewriters,  Tools,  Watches,  Sporting  Goods,  Jewelry,  Cam- 
eras, Housewares,  etc.  Consolidated  Distributors,  Clifton  17, 
New  Jersey. 

HOME  SEWERS  OPPORTUNITIES 

SEW  APRONS  IN  your  home,  profitably.  Write:  Adco, 
Bastrop,  Louisiana. 


AGENTS  WANTED 

MAKE  GOOD  MONEY  In  Spare  Time  without  taking  a  job 
or  putting  in  regular  hours  and  without  experience.  $50  to 
$200  can  be  yours  by  showing  Regal  Christmas  Cards  to 
friends,  neighbors,  co-workers.  So  unusually  beautiful  they 
sell  on  sight.  Write  for  Free  Christmas  card  album  and  sample 
boxes  on   approval.    Regal    Greetings,    Dept.   75,   Ferndale, 

Michigan. 

MAKE  $50-$75-$100  again  and  again.  Show  friends  New  Idea 
Christmas,  All  Occasion  boxed  assortments,  gift  wrappings, 
gift  items,  Personal  Christmas  Cards  50  for  $1.50  up.  Profits 
to  $1.00  per  box.  Bonus.  Write  for  Free  Starting  Outfit,  Sen- 
sational  Free   Offer.    New  England   Art   Publishers,    North 

Abington  A-88,  Mass. 

60%  PROFIT  COSMETICS  $25  day  up.  Hire  others.  Samples, 
details.  Studio  Girl-Hollywood,  Glendale,  Calif.,  Dept.  1678H. 
SELL  BEAUTIFUL  PERSONALIZED  Xmas  Cards.  100% 
Profit  Deal.  Evergreen,  Box  842,  Chicago  42,  III. 

MONEYMAKING  OPPORTUNITIES 

$300  MONTHLY  POSSIBLE  mailing  circulars.  John  Hall, 

1265-C  Broadway,  New  York  1,  N.Y. 

HOMEWORKERS    WANTED    PAINTING    Novelties.    No 

Selling.  N.  Roland,  Vincentown  1,  N.J. 

GUARANTEED     HOMEWORK!     IMMEDIATE    Commis- 
sionsl  Free  Outfits!  Hirsch,  1301-12  Hoe,  New  York  City  59. 
$35  WEEKLY  PREPARING  envelopes.  Instructions  $1.  Re- 
fundable.  Adservice,  Spring  Valley  151,  New  York. 
MAKE  YOUR  TYPEWRITER  Earn   Money.   Send   $1.00 

Hughes,  7004  Diversey,  Chicago  35. 

EXTRA  MONEY  PREPARING  Mailing  Postcards,  Selling 
Products.  Victoria  Sales,  1815-R  Meyers,  Lombard,  III. 

EDUCATIONAL  OPPORTUNITIES 

COMPLETE  YOUR  HIGH  School  at  home  in  spare  time 
with  60-year-old  school.  Texts  furnished.  No  classes.  Diploma. 
Information    booklet   free.   American    School,    Dept.    XC74, 

Drexel  at  58th,  Chicago  37,  Illinois. 

HIGH  SCHOOL  DIPLOMA  at  home.  Licensed  teachers. 
Approved  materials.  Southern  States  Academy,  Box  144W. 

Station  E,  Atlanta,  Georgia. 

LEARN  WHILE  ASLEEP1  Details  free.  Research  Association, 
Box610-WP,  Omaha. 

STAMP  COLLECTING 

CANADA— NEWFOUNDLAND  COLLECTION  including 
early  issues,  commemoratives,  pictorials  and  high  values. 
Plus  set  of  fascinating  triangle  stamps.  Plus  set  of  unused 
British  Colonies.  Plus  large  stamp  book.  All  four  offers  free. 
Send  10c  to  cover  postage.  Empire  Stamp  Corp.,  Dept.  PC, 
Toronto,  Canada. 

FOREIGN  &   U.S.A.  JOB  LISTINGS 

HIGH  PAYING  jpBS:  Foreign,  USA.  All  trades.  Travel  paid. 
Information.  Application  forms.  Write  Dept.  21 B  National, 

1020  Broad,  Newark,  N.J.  

AMERICAN,  OVERSEAS  JOBS,  high  pay,  Men,  Women, 
Transportation  Paid,  Free  Information,  Write  Transworld, 
200-W  West  34,  New  York  1,  N.Y. 

INSTRUCTION 

FINISH  HIGH  SCHOOL  at  home,  spare  time.  No  classes. 
Diploma  awarded.  Write  for  Free  catalog.  Wayne  School, 
Catalog  HCH-46,  2527  Sheffield,  Chicago  14. 


ADVANCE     ROYALTY 


i|  00.00 


SONGWRITERS 

TO  THE  WRITER  OF  BEST  SONG  SELECTED   EACH  MONTH 


WANTED 


Send  songs,  poems.  Re  cords,  copies  furnished.  Let  us  help  you  be  a  suc< 

tfr  HOLLYWOOD  TUNESMITHS  '"^SSSS^SSj 


^ibIVI^Jfot    musical    setting ...  send 
^^  ^^  Poems    today.    Any    subject, 

Immediate    consideration.    Phonograph    records    made. 

CROWN  MUSIC  CO., 49  W.32  St., Studio  560,  New  York  1 


Life  is  thrilling 

when  you're  a  Rl  [IN Mr 

Be  a  fascinating  golden-top — today! 


MARCHAND'S  GOLDEN  HAIR  WASH 


FIND  OUT  what  fun  it  is  to 
be  a  beautiful  blonde.  No 
matter  what  your  hair  color 
now  —  blonde  that's  turned 
mousey  brown,  brunette,  red- 
head —  with  Marchand's 
Golden  Hair  Wash  you  can 
add  a  glow  of  sunshine  or 
lighten  honey  bright.  Golden 
Hair  Wash  is  the  tried-and- 
true  home  hair  lightener  pre- 
ferred for  over  50  years.  Not 
a  dye.  Nothing  extra  to  buy. 
Fine  for  lightening  arm  and 
leg  hair,  too. 


At  drugstores 
everywhere 
75c  and  $1.00 
plus  tax 


73 


Two  Hands  Full  of  Laughter 


(Continued  from  page  58) 
back  her  up  in  this  view.  Listening  to 
questions,  her  eyes  seem  more  active  than 
her  hands.  But  when  she  begins  to  talk 
about  her  life  and  the  entertainment  field 
to  which  she  has  given  so  much,  suddenly 
her  hands  come  alive — they  begin  to 
weave  their  magic  ...  to  weave  a  tapestry 
of  laughter,  understanding  and  tears. 

"I  was  born  in  Parsons,  Kansas,"  she 
says.  "The  records  say  January  3,  at  the 
turn  of  the  century.  It  seems  a  hundred 
thousand  years  ago,  doesn't  it? — when  you 
think  that  we're  preparing  to  make  a  land- 
ing on  the  moon!"  She  stares  a  moment 
through  the  window  of  her  dressing  room 
on  the  Hal  Roach  lot.  "I  was  a  serious  little 
girl,  I  think  .  .  .  sort  of  dreamy  and  a  little 
lost  in  my  dreams.  Yet,  I  don't  believe  I 
was  sad  or  unhappy.  This  was  in  California, 
you  know — Santa  Cruz.  We  had  moved 
there  when  I  was  six  months  old.  And  I 
hadn't  a  notion,  I'm  sure,  of  ever  going 
on  the  stage.  But  when  I  was  seventeen — 
ah!" 

She  had  been  on  vacation  with  her 
parents  and  they  had  come  to  Los  Angeles 
to  "see  the  sights."  They  were  invited  to 
a  party — by  whom,  where,  she  can't  re- 
member. All  she  knows  is,  at  that  party, 
"the  sky  opened"  and  great  good  fortune 
came  shining  down  on  her.  She  was  in- 
troduced to  "a  wonderful  woman"  who 
sensed  the  talent  lying  dormant  and  ar- 
ranged for  her  to  try  out  for  a  part  in 
Mary  Pickford's  "The  Little  Princess." 
This  wonderful  woman  was  Frances  Mar- 
ion, one  of  Hollywood's  greatest  writers 
and  star-makers.  "I  won  the  part,"  ZaSu 
smiles,  "and  Frances  and  I  are  still  close 
friends.  I  admire  her  more  than  anyone 
else  I  know.  I  also  admire  Mary,  and  we 
see  each  other  as  often  as  we  can." 

ZaSu  can  truthfully  be  called  "an  over- 
night success."  She  herself  says,  "I  was 
very,  vdry  lucky  in  my  career.  And,  in 
those  days,  competition  wasn't  so  fierce." 
But,  if  she  was  "lucky,"  it  was  not  merely 
for  herself;  she  brought  luck  to  others.  In 
1919,  a  short  while  before  "Little  Princess" 
was  released,  ZaSu  became  the  luck-charm 
which  director  King  Vidor  speaks  of  to- 
day as  "my  heaven-sent  gift." 

As  Vidor  recalls  it,  he  was  riding  on  a 
Hollywood  Boulevard  streetcar  when  his 
eye  was  taken  by  a  strange  young  girl — 
"pretty  in  a  lanky  kind  of  style" — sitting 
opposite  him.  She  was  watching  the  street 
signs  anxiously  as  the  car  sped  along.  Each 
time  she  turned  to  look,  somehow  she  man- 
aged to  strike  one  of  the  passengers.  When 
her  stop  was  called,  she  showed  her  ap- 
preciation to  the  conductor  by  somehow 
jamming  her  elbow  into  his  stomach.  All 
this  was  done  most  innocently,  and  she  re- 
treated down  the  aisle,  knocking  hats, 
heads  and  newspapers  in  embarrassment 
and  confusion.  Most  of  the  passengers  were 
in  an  uproar  by  the  time  she  got  off,  and 
Vidor's  curiosity  was  so  stirred  that  he, 
too,  hopped  off  the  car  and  caught  up  with 
her  as  she  reached  the  corner  of  Holly- 
wood and  Gower.  "This,  I  realized  at  once, 
was  a  character,"  he  says,  "and  I  wasn't 
about  to  let  her  walk  out  of  my  life." 
He  asked  her  name. 

"ZaSu,"  she  replied,  and  seeing  his  be- 
wilderment,   said    again,    "ZaSu,    last    of 
Eliza,    first    of    Susie."    She    twinkled    at 
him.   "ZaSu   Pitts   .   .   .   like   cherry   pits." 
He  also  learned  that  she  was  looking  for 
work   as   an   actress,   while   living   at  the 
T    Studio  Club.  "It's  a  nice  place,  isn't  it?" 
v    This    recommendation    was    accompanied 
R     by  a  hearty  blow  on  his  chest,  and  he  stood 
there,  scratching  his  head  as  she  went  on. 
To   this   meeting,   Vidor   credits  his  in- 
74 


spiration  for  "Better  Times,"  his  first  im- 
portant film.  The  day  after,  he  began  work 
on  a  story  about  an  unloved  wallflower 
in  a  boarding  school  who  pretends  to  be 
courted  through  the  mails  by  a  big-league 
ball  player.  Brentwood  Productions  were 
persuaded  by  Vidor  to  hire  ZaSu  for  the 
lead.  She  proved  to  be  a  "natural"  in  it — 
which  was  no  surprise  to  Vidor,  who  had 
written  the  part  for  her.  David  Butler,  now 
a  successful  producer,  played  her  leading 
man.  ZaSu  went  on  to  do  several  films  for 
Vidor,    all   notable   hits. 

The  hands  pause  .  .  .  fold  one  upon  the 
other  in  a  posture  of  silence  and  medi- 
tation. "I  was  climbing  that  long,  high 
ladder  to  stardom.  That's  what  the  critics, 
the  people  in  the  industry  said.  But  what 
nobody  seemed  to  realize  was  that  I  my- 
self never  considered  myself  a  star  in  the 
sense  of  a  Pickford  or  a  Mabel  Normand. 
In  fact,  for  years,  I  had  a  monopoly  on  all 
the  fluttery  maid  parts  which,  as  a  sincere 
actress,  I  felt  were  the  utter  and  bitter 
end."  Devoted  fans  know  that  her  "Yes, 
m'lady"  roles  came  later,  and  that  they 
were  preceded  by  a  flock  of  top  dramatic 
parts  in  major  pictures.  "Oh,  I  don't  deny 
I  was  in  some  good  ones,"  she  says.  "But 
I  thank  my  directors  for  that.  And,  when 
we  talk  about  directors,  let's  never  forget 
one  of  the  greatest  .  .  .  who  worked  to 
bring  out  the  best  in  me.  .  ." 

It  is  Erich  Von  Stroheim  that  she  re- 
calls in  this  tribute.  "He  had  the  patience 
of  a  saint  who  is  dedicated  to  perfection. 
This  made  him  seem  like  a  devil  to  some 
actors.  He'd  resort  to  the  harshest  meas- 
ures to  get  a  scene  exactly  right.  There's 
a  scene  in  'Greed' — we  did  it  sixty-two 
times  before  he  could  be  satisfied.  And  we 
had  no  dressing  rooms,  you  know.  We'd 
just  rest  on  cots  between  shooting." 

"Greed,"  one  of  the  first  films  made  for 
Metro  and  Goldwyn  after  they  consoli- 
dated, is  still  ranked  as  a  Von  Stroheim 
masterpiece.  Made  in  1925,  it  vied  with 
Cecil  B.  DeMille's  "The  Ten  Command- 
ments" (first  version)  for  best  film  of  the 
year.  The  lust  for  money,  and  the  destruc- 
tion it  can  cause,  was  the  theme,  and  today 
ZaSu  still  says,  "Money  is  good  for  taking 
care  of  your  needs  and  responsibilities.  It's 
no  guarantee  of  happiness.  I  had  plenty  of 
money  in  the  old  days,  but  I  can't,  in  all 
honesty,  say  I  was  truly  happy.  That  came 
later  .  .  .  after  I  met  Pops  .  .  .  Mr.  Woodall, 
you  know." 

Edward  Woodall,  it  should  be  pointed 
out,  is  her  husband,  the  man  whose  love 
she  describes  as  "filling  my  world  with 
goodness  the  way  the  sun  fills  our  universe 
with  light."  He  had  not  yet  walked  into 
her  world  at  the  time  she  was  soaring  to 
fame  in  a  succession  of  dramatic  screen 
roles.  One  of  the  most  memorable  of  these, 
it  is  generally  admitted,  was  the  tragic 
part  of  the  lame  princess  in  Von  Stroheim's 
"The  Wedding  March."  As  a  work  of  art, 
the  picture  is  still  considered  masterly. 

"The  talkies  hadn't  been  with  us  very 
long,"  ZaSu  continues,  "when  the  ax 
crashed  down.  I  was  typed,  and — of  all 
things— typed  as  a  comedienne."  It  was  in 
a  gangster  picture  that  this  "disaster" 
occurred.  There  was  a  scene  "of  heart- 
rending anguish,"  and  she  was  directed 
to  wring  her  hands  for  effect.  "I  couldn't 
seem  to  get  the  right  tone — and  blew  up. 
In  disgust,  I  cupped  my  hands  over  my 
forehead  and  let  out  a  doleful  'Oh,  dear.' 
The  reaction  may  have  been  unplanned 
but,  believe  me,  it  was  explosive.  Every- 
one on  the  set  went  into  convulsions.  They 
laughed  and  laughed.  The  director  was  de- 
lighted. He  felt  the  plot  was  too  heavy  and 
he  decided  to  keep  this  'bit'  to  brighten 


things  up.  It  turned  out  to  be  a  big  suc- 
cess with  the  public  and,  in  my  next  pic- 
ture, they  had  me  do  more  of  the  same. 
Soon  there  was  a  whole  slew  of  pictures 
which  showed  me  using  those  silly  ges- 
tures. It  was  opening  a  new  career  for  me 
as  a  comedienne,  but  it  finished  the  career 
I  loved,  as  a  dramatic  actress." 

But  now  the  expressive  hands  and  voice 
weave  brighter  colors  into  the  story.  "If 
my  career  took  a  wrong  turn — if  I  felt 
discontented  with  the  parts  I  had  to  play," 
ZaSu  recalls,  "the  happiness  I  was  sudden- 
ly finding  in  my  personal  life  more  than 
made  up  for  it."  For  ZaSu  had  met  Edward 
Woodall,  an  advertising  executive — had 
met  and  married  him,  and  was  beginning 
to  immerse  herself  in  the  pleasures  of 
that  most  fulfilling  role — wife  and  mother. 
She  might  have  descended  to  playing 
"movie  maid  to  every  star  in  town,"  but, 
in  her  own  large  home  on  Rockingham 
Road  in  fashionable  Brentwood,  she 
reigned  supreme  as  "Moms"  to  an  ador- 
ing husband  and  two  children,  Ann  and 
Don.  She  was  also  a  much  sought-after 
matron  in  the  social  life  of  the  community. 

"We  needed  a  big  place  then,"  she  sighs, 
"what  with  two  lively  children,  cats,  dogs, 
ponies  and  what-not.  Entertaining  was 
lavish  then.  It  was  part  of  the  times.  We 
were  never  quite  on  the  scale  of  Pickfair, 
but  we  did  live  it  up  some,  nevertheless." 

Although  acting  still  made  considerable 
demands  on  her  time  and  energy,  her 
family  recalls  gratefully  "all  she  did,  all 
she  tried  to  do."  Even  when  she  was  called 
away  on  location  or  on  a  tour,  "in  small 
ways  all  her  own,"  she  left  behind  a  very 
palpable  sense  of  her  presence.  Ann — now 
Mrs.  John  S -for- Stanford  Reynolds — re- 
lates that,  when  ZaSu  was  away:  "Some- 
how, the  house  seemed  to  develop  an  echo 
in  it  .  .  .  the  rooms  seemed  emptier,  Dad 
seemed  just  a  wee  bit  tireder  and  we  kids 
found  our  games  and  lessons  duller.  And 
yet  we  were  all  filled  with  a  feeling  of 
expectation  ...  as  if,  deep  down,  we — the 
house,  the  servants,  the  pets — all  of  us 
knew  that  Moms  was  still  with  us  ...  at 
any  moment,  we'd  hear  her  footstep." 

It  is  a  family  joke  now,  but  there  were 
tragic  echoes  of  one  childhood  incident 
which  Ann  recalls.  "Don  and  I  were  kids 
when  we  sneaked  off  to  a  movie  that  was 
featuring  Mother.  I  can't  recall  the  name, 
but  there  was  a  scene  where  she  was  about 
to  be  killed.  Don  jumped  up  and  began 
yelling,  'Don't  kill  my  Moms!'  while  I  cov- 
ered my  face  with  my  dress  and  wept 
bitterly."  Something  of  this  terror  was 
repeated  for  Ann  and  her  father  and 
brother,  three  years  ago,  when  ZaSu 
underwent  three  operations  for  cancer. 
"We  were  suddenly  back  in  that  movie 
house,  terrified,"  Ann  continues.  "Only 
Mom  remained  steadfast.  She  never  lost 
hope,  and  she  wouldn't  let  us  lose  hope. 
They  had  to  cut  into  her  arm  and  side. 
But — to  give  you  an  idea  of  the  stuff  she's 
made  of — shortly  after  her  last  operation, 
she  gave  a  benefit  at  Palm  Springs.  She 
looked  all  in,  and  we  begged  her  not  to  go 
on.    But  she  couldn't  be  stopped." 

ZaSu  herself  takes  pride  in  her  recovery 
and  explains  with  a  chuckle  how  she 
bought  an  old-style  car  with  the  standard 
shift  so  that  her  arm  and  side  would  get 
a  proper  amount  of  strengthening  exer- 
cise. But  it  is  when  she  speaks  of  her 
family  that  her  pride  takes  on  new  dimen- 
sions. 

She  was  starring  in  "Out  All  Night,"  and 
a  dimpled,  blond  cherub  appeared  on  the 
set  to  do  a  bit.  ZaSu  took  the  little  girl 
under  her  wing  and  told  anyone  who 
would  listen,   "This   child  will  be  great." 


Two  years  later,  the  child — Shirley  Tem- 
ple— and  her  family  moved  into  the  house 
next  to  ZaSu's,  and  they  were  neighbors 
and  friends  for  years.  It  was  Don  who  first 
taught  Shirley  how  to  ride  a  pony.  "She 
liked  to  run  over  and  sample  my  pies,"  Za- 
Su  smiles.  "And  here's  an  odd  coincidence: 
My  first  film  was  "The  Little  Princess' — 
and  then,  after  so  many  years,  who  comes 
along  but  little  Shirley  and  does  the  re- 
make in  the  part  Mary  Pickford  played." 

If  ZaSu  was  both  a  delight  and  an  enigma 
to  her  own  children,  she  is  merely  a  de- 
light to  her  grandchildren.  "The  kids  are 
wise  to  her,"  Ann  says  gleefully.  "When 
I  get  ready  to  administer  a  spanking,  they 
giggle  and  say,  'Betcha  Grandmother  leaves 
the  room.' "  ZaSu  herself  remarks  wryly, 
"I  guess  I'm  of  the  old  school  that  thought 
spankings  were  old-fashioned." 

The  famous  hands  are  quiet  as  ZaSu  re- 
calls old  friends.  "How  clever  and  talented 
they  were!  And  how  I  miss  them!"  Sor- 
rowfully she  calls  the  roster  of  the  unfor- 
gettable dead:  "Edna  Mae  Oliver,  Slim 
Summerville,  Thelma  Todd  .  .  ."  And  then 
her  hands  move,  and  the  past  is  reluctantly 
put  aside.  She  begins  to  revel  in  the  pres- 
ent, in  her  new  friends,  in  her  newfound 
career  in  television.  "Gale  Storm  is  as 
dear  to  me  as  my  own  daughter.  And  Hal 
Roach,  Senior — you  know,  he  still  drops  in 
on  the  lot  for  a  chat  about  the  old  days. 
He  likes  to  tease  me  by  saying  I  haven't 
changed  a  bit.  And  I  come  back  at  him  by 
asking  if  he'd  like  to  star  me  in  one  of  his 
old  bathing-beauty,  Keystone  Cop  series. 
And  then  there's  Bones  Vreeland,  our  pro- 
duction head.  He's  been  a  great  help. 
Would  you  believe  it?  I've  begun  to  get 
a  flood  of  fan  mail  since  I  became  'Nugey.'  " 

Her  smile  brightens.  "The  way  they  all 
take  care  of  me  around  here!"  ZaSu,  who 
eats  like  a  bird,  usually  brings  nothing  but 
a  pint  of  buttermilk  to  the  lot.  But  a  day 
never  passes  without  Roy  Roberts — the 
captain  of  the  luxury  liner  in  Oh!  Su- 
sanna— dropping  in  her  dressing  room  with 
a  sandwich.  Or  else  it's  Gale  Storm — or 
even  one  of  the  "grips" — with  a  piece  of 
homemade  pie.  "Well,"  exclaims  Gale, 
"we're  only  paying  back  for  all  the  mother- 
ing she's  given  us.  How  she  hovered  over 
me  when  I  was  pregnant!" 

ZaSu  herself  is  obviously  delighted  by 
the  stories  told  about  her.  She  laughs  as 
heartily  as  the  rest,  when  Bill  Seider,  her 
TV  director,  tells  the  following  anecdote: 
"I'd  worked  with  ZaSu  before,  so  I  was 
prepared.  But  poor  Roy  Roberts,  he  didn't 
know.  So  when  I  heard  her  blow  a  line 
during  rehearsal,  I  yelled  'Look  out!' — and 
ducked.  Roy  got  it  square  on  the  chest." 
Gale  breaks  in  with,  "We're  all  on  to  her 
now,  and  the  second  she  fluffs  a  line — 
which  she  seldom  does — we  all  begin  duck- 
ing out  of  range.  Imagine!  She's  the  gen- 
tlest of  people.  But  when  she  goofs,  ZaSu 
Pitts  starts  swinging!" 

Others  recall  that  she's  always  an  hour 
late  for  appointments,  because  she  can't 
stand  traffic  and,  like  as  not,  will  pull  up 
to  the  side  of  the  road  and  patiently  wait 
until  the  rush  is  over.  Still  others  tease 
her  slyly  about  her  hankering  to  make  a 
comeback  as  a  serious  dramatic  actress. 

All  of  it  pleases  her,  fills  her  with  a 
youthful  zest,  brings  the  color  into  her  face 
and  the  sparkle  into  her  eyes.  "Oh,"  ZaSu 
cries,  "I  am  so  lucky.  My  family,  my 
friends,  all  of  whom  stood  by  me  so  loyally 
when  my  acting  seemed  limited  to  maids 
.  .  .  when  I  was  so  sick  .  .  .  my  dear  hus- 
band who,  when  we  sold  our  big  home  and 
moved  into  a  small  apartment,  put  his  arm 
around  me  and  said,  'Moms,  the  smaller 
the  place,  the  closer  we'll  be.'  I  am  a  lucky, 
happy  woman!' " 

The  hands  weave  on  their  tapestry  of 
wonders  .  .  .  the  hands  weave  out  the 
wonders  of  a  life.  .  .  . 


MONEY- SAVING 

STYLE 

CATALOG 


NATIONAL  BELLAS  HESS 

FALL  &  WINTER  CATALOG 
Bargains  Galore  for  You  and  Your  Family 

See  hundreds  of  smart  fall  fashions  in  glowing  colors. 
Designed  in  New  York  and  Hollywood,  style  cap- 
itals of  the  world.  Select  from  an  exciting  array  of 
dresses,  coats,  shoes  and  accessories  .  .  .  fine  home 
items  ...  all  first  quality  and  offered  to  you  at  the 
lowest  prices  anywhere! 

Shop  by  mail,  and  join  the  millions  who  save  by 
buying  regularly  from  the  bright  colorful  National 
Bellas  Hess  Catalogs.  Your  choice  of  three  conven- 
ient ways  to  buy:  CASH,  c.o.D.  or  CREDIT.  Everything 
in  our  catalog  is  absolutely  guaranteed — your  money 
back  if  you  are  not  delighted.  Our  69th  year. 

NATIONAL  BELLAS  HESS 


SAVE  MONEY,  SAVE  TIME-ACT  NOW! 


NATIONAL  BELLAS  HESS 

247-88  Bellas  Hess  Bldg.,  Kansas  City,  Mo. 

Please  send  me,  free,  the  new  National  Bellas 
Hess  Money-Saving  Catalog. 


Name. 


Address. 

City 

State 


Here's  the  easiest  way  to  make  extra 

money  in  spare  time !   Just  tarn  the  pages 

of  our  handy  album  and  41  beautiful  new 

Christmas  Cards  spring  to  life!  Friends 

buy  on  sight.  New  MAGI  COLOR  cards  -. 

Il^^pay  you  $65  profit  on  66  boxes.  Big 
^^ variety  of  personalized  cards,  $1.00 
^W  assortments, novel  gifts.  Profits  tol00% 
^F  plus  extra  cash  bonus.  24-hour  serv-J 
W ice.  Write  for  FREE  Album,  and  samples 
"on  approval,  plus  FREE  Gift  Offer. 
SOUTHERN  GREETINGS,  Dept.  31-D 
478  N.  Hollywood  -  Memphis  12,  Tenn. 


I  Art  Talent  Test 


Find  out,  free,  if  you  have  talent 
worth  training  for  a  commercial 
art  career.  Take  simple  Art  Talent 
Test  at  home.  Devised  by  pro- 
fessional artists.  Contributed 
without  obligation  by  world's 
largest  home  study  art  school. 
Forty  years'  art  teaching  experi- 
ence. Mail  coupon  today. 


ART  INSTRUCTION,  INC.,  STUDIO  7397 
500  South  4th  Street,  Minneapolis  15,  Minnesota 
Please  send  me  your  Talent  Test,  without 
cost  or  obligation.  (PLEASE  PRINT) 

Name AGE 


Address- 

City 

Counfy_ 


-Phone- 


-Zone Stole- 

Occupation— 


75 


From  the  Fields  of  The  Dakotas 


(Continued  from  page  34) 
could  happen,  and  he  wouldn't  be  able  to 
pay.  But  Lawrence  Welk's  father  was  even 
more  concerned  about  his  son's  future. 
He'd  seen  some  of  those  traveling  musi- 
cians who  came  through  Strasburg,  North 
Dakota,  playing  barn  dances  and  fairs. 
They  drank  whiskey.  They  wisecracked. 
They  had  no  roots,  these  fellows.  They 
played   their   music    .    .    .   and   moved   on. 

"Dad  didn't  want  me  to  leave  the  farm." 
Lawrence  Welk  says  now,  "and  especially 
for  the  music  business.  He  felt  it  wasn't 
stable  enough,  and  that  the  musicians  he'd 
seen  were  a  little  loose  and  adventure- 
some. He  was  afraid  the  same  thing 
might  happen  to  me.  My  dad  was  trying 
to  save  my  soul,  and  he  thought  there 
would  be  a  better  chance  of  saving  it  on 
the  farm." 

But,  for  young  Lawrence,  there  could 
be  no  harvest,  there  could  be  no  life  .  .  . 
without  music.  Even  ploughing  the  field, 
he  could  hear  music.  He  heard  music 
everywhere.  It  came  out  of  the  wind  and 
sun  and  earth  ...  an  imaginary  symphony 
with  Lawrence  directing  it.  His  sisters 
and  brothers  would  tease  him  about  his 
imaginary  bands,  and  about  how  he  would 
go  out  to  the  barn  and  dance,  with  some 
prop  or  other.  ...  "I  danced  with  a 
pitchfork,  I  danced  with  anvthing.  I  just 
loved  music  and  I  loved  to  dance,"  he 
recalls.  "Music  was  on  my  mind  all  the 
time,  whether  I  was  cleaning  out  the  barn 
or  hauling  hay  or  harnessing  the  horse  to 
go  out  in  the  field.  I  had  a  constant 
dream  of  music." 

Alone  in  the  barn,  Lawrence  Welk 
would  direct  his  imaginary  band:  "I  would 
hit  the  anvil,  the  rain  barrel,  a  horseshoe, 
anything  that  would  make  a  sound.  And 
I  used  to  make  a  'violin'  with  horsehair 
'strings'  from  a  horse's  tail."  .  .  .  His  father 
liked  music,  too,  but  music  was  for  re- 
laxing after  a  hard  day's  work  in  the 
field — not  a  life's  work.  Lawrence,  -in 
fact,  had  first  learned  to  play  the  accor- 
dion on  his  father's  old  push-and-pull 
squeeze  box,  one  of  the  few  meager  pos- 
sessions his  parents  had  brought  over  on 
the  boat  from  the  Old  Country  when  they 
came  to  America  in  search  of  a  home. 

1  o  Ludwig  and  his  pretty  dark-haired 
wife,  Kristina,  roots  were  the  riches  of 
the  earth.  Their  homeland,  Alsace-Lor- 
raine, had  been  a  pawn  for  power  be- 
tween Germany  and  France  through  the 
years,  and  they  were  torn  back  and  forth, 
changing  nationality.  Devoutly  religious 
and  peace-loving,  they  had  no  country  to 
call  their  own.  And  when  the  Prussians 
overrode  their  lands — they  fled.  .  .  .  Along 
with  other  German  settlers,  Ludwig  and 
Kristina  Welk  filed  to  homestead  rich 
farmlands  just  outside  Strasburg,  North 
Dakota.  Looking  across  the  field  of 
buffalo  grass  that  stretched  miles  on  every 
side  of  them — the  prairie  land  that  would 
some  day  belong  to  them  and  to  their 
sons — they  thanked  God  for  this  new  land 
which  had  opened  its  arms  to  them. 

For    a    shelter,    Ludwig    and    Kristina 

Welk  used  the   only  material  they   could 

afford.      Earth.      With    their    own    hands, 

they  built  the  sod  house,  where  Lawrence 

Welk  would  one  day  be  born.    They  took 

long    thick    strips    of    sod    and    dovetailed 

them     together     like     bricks.     They     put 

boards  across  the  top  of  the  thick  walls 

and  piled  very  thick  layers  of  sod  on  top. 

Only    a    torrential    rain    would    melt    the 

T     roof  down   a   little   into   the   living  room. 

v     Then  Ludwig  would  carry  more  sod  to  the 

R     roof    and    pack    it    tight    together    again, 

thankful  for  the  buffalo  grass  in  the  sod 

that  helped  it  hold.     As  they  could,  they 


built  partitions,  put  in  a  floor,  and  built 
a  wood  frame  on  the  outside. 

"It  was  a  very  comfortable  house,"  re- 
calls Lawrence's  sister,  Eva  Welk,  today 
a  nurse  in  Aberdeen,  South  Dakota.  "The 
walls  were  eighteen  inches  thick — it  was 
the  warmest  place  in  the  winter  and  the 
coolest  in  the  summer.  All  eight  of  us 
were  born  there.  Our  youngest  brother, 
Mike,  still  lives  there." 

And  there,  on  March  11,  1903,  the  man 
who  was  one  day  to  make  music  that 
would  reflect  the  grass-roots  of  his  own 
heritage — music  of  the  people,  music  all 
America  would  love — was  born.  "Lawrence 
worked  very  hard  doing  the  farm  chores," 
Eva  says.  "He  worked  in  the  field,  he 
helped  with  the  milking,  and  he  would  go 
into  town  to  sell  the  cream." 

Young  Lawrence  was  early  initiated  to 
the  rewards  of  hard  work — a  lesson  which 
would  be  invaluable  to  him  later  on.  Their 
ground  made  forty  bushels  of  wheat, 
where  their  neighbors'  made  thirty.  They 
worked  longer  hours,  planted  earlier,  and 
his  dad  watched  that  land  like  a  dedicated 
man.  "Not  only  that — but  Dad  was  also  a 
blacksmith  by  trade,"  says  Lawrence 
Welk.  "He  would  repair  all  our  own 
things,  and  those  of  our  neighbors,   too." 

What  he  remembers  most  about  his 
parents  was  their  great  happiness,  and 
their  gratitude  to  America:  "They  were  so 
happy  here,  and  so  happy  about  the  treat- 
ment they  received  in  America.  So  grate- 
ful for  the  warmth  and  kindness  they 
found   here." 

Ludwig  taught  his  son  how  to  play  some 
old-fashioned  German  waltzes  on  the 
worn  squeeze-box  with  the  imitation 
pearl  buttons  that  young  Lawrence  fin- 
gered so  lovingly.  They  had  an  old  pump 
organ,  too,  and  Eva  remembers  how 
"Lawrence  would  pump  the  organ  in  the 
parlor  and  the  rest  of  us  would  gather 
around  and  sing."  She  adds,  with  a  smile, 
"Lawrence  used  to  keep  our  cows  awake 
until  late  at  night,  out  in  the  barn,  prac- 
ticing on  the  accordion  Dad  brought  over 
from  the  Old  Country." 

But  there  was  one  grim  year  when  the 
music  almost  stopped  for  Lawrence 
Welk — all  music.  When  he  almost  died 
from  a  ruptured  appendix,  and  went 
through  long  months  of  recuperation  aft- 
erward. A  year  that  was  to  limit  his 
future  in  some  ways,  and  make  music  his 
whole  world.  This  illness  he  remembers 
very  well:  "I  was  unconscious,  and,  when 
I  came  to,  I  was  in  the  hospital  and  they 
were  trying  to  hold  me  down — I  was.  try- 
ing to  climb  the  wall.  When  I  opened  my 
eyes  again,  I  saw  all  of  my  relatives 
standing  around  the  bed.  I  knew  some 
of  them  had  come  a  long  way  in  a  horse- 
and-buggy — seventy  miles — to  get  there. 
It  was  a  big  relief,  after  seeing  them, 
when  I  heard  the  doctor  say  he  thought 
I  was  over  the  crisis." 

After  being  out  sick  that  year,  Lawrence 
wouldn't  go  back  to  school.  As  he  ex- 
plains now,  "I  was  growing  all  that  year, 
and  I  was  much  taller  than  any  of  the 
kids  I  would  have  been  in  class  with.  My 
parents  felt  I  should  go  back  to  school, 
anyway,  but  I  had  a  real  complex  about 
it.  I'd  been  sick  before  in  my  younger 
days,  I'd  missed  school,  I  was  taller  than 
the  others — and  I  was  very  uncomfortable. 
So  I  wouldn't  go.  ...  I  regretted  it  later 
on  in  life,  when  I  got  into  business.  I 
knew  how  much  I'd  missed,  and  how 
much  easier  it  might  have  been  for  me 
if  I'd  gone  to  school  and  studied,  along 
with  my  music." 

Later  on  in  life,  he  was  to  spend  hours, 
nightly,  reading  books  and  educating  him- 


self. However,  in  his  particular  case, 
Lawrence  Welk  weighs  today  whether  he 
would  have  fought  as  hard  for  success — 
"if  I'd  had  the  schooling.  I'm  not  so  sure 
I  would  have  had  the  drive  and  the  de- 
termination I've  had  to  have,  if  an  edu- 
cation had  made  it  all  easier  I'm  not 
sure  I  would  have  gotten  this  far  in 
music — that  I  would  have  had  that  much 
desire." 

Desire,  he  had.  There  was  no  other  life. 
He  felt  shy  and  ill-at-ease  with  his  for- 
mer schoolmates,  so  he  was  out  of  the 
swim  there.  He  worked  on  the  farm — and 
music  was  his  whole  world  ...  a  world 
that  was  threatened,  too,  when  Lawrence 
Welk  broke  his  arm  at  the  age  of  sixteen. 
He  was  to  need  all  that  determination  and 
desire  in  the  months  that  followed. 

-Kemembering  now,  he  says,  "I  was  in 
the  field  ploughing.  I  had  a  lazy  horse, 
and  I  hit  him  with  the  whip,  and  he  took 
off  like  a  jet — taking  the  plough  and  me 
with  him.  The  plough  hit  a  rock  and 
jumped  up  and  threw  me  into  the  middle 
of  the  horse — I  landed  on  my  arm."  When 
he  crawled  to  his  feet  in  a  daze,  "I  saw 
my  arm  just  hanging  there — and  I  knew  it 
was  broken."  At  the  moment,  he  could 
feel  no  pain,  because  of  a  more  agonizing 
thought:  "I  could  only  think  of  one 
thing — I  wouldn't  ever  be  able  to  play  the 
accordion  again." 

Luckily,  his  arm  healed.  But  the  inex- 
pensive accordion  Lawrence  had  "went  to 
pieces"  the  following  year.  "One  reed 
was  out  of  tune — it  used  to  hurt  me  so 
much  to  hear  it.  When  I  hit  the  sour 
note,  it  would  just  about  kill  me.  I  was 
about  ready  to  give  up  playing  the  ac- 
cordion." Then  he  found  his  dream  accor- 
dion in  an  advertising  catalogue  which 
manufacturers  mailed  to  the  Welk  house. 
"Four  hundred  dollars  was  an  awful  lot 
of  money,"  he  says.  "More  money  than 
my  parents  could  usually  save  in  a  whole 
year."  Mindful  of  this,  Lawrence  told  his 
dad  he  would  play  at  weddings  and  cele- 
brations around  Strasburg  and  pay  him 
back.    But  that  didn't  persuade  him. 

"It  took  me  quite  a  while  to  talk  Dad 
into  it.  I  got  Mother  on  my  side.  She 
knew  how  much  I  wanted  the  accordion, 
and  she  talked  to  him.  Then  I  went  to 
him  with  my  proposition.  I  promised  I 
would  stay  on  the  farm  until  I  was 
twenty-one  if  he  would  buy  the  accordion 
for  me.  And  I  would  also  pay  back  every 
cent  it  cost.  .  .  .  That  was  a  beautiful 
day!"  Lawrence  Welk  glows,  recalling 
their  agreement. 

Ludwig  Welk  believed  with  all  his  heart 
that  to  be  a  musician  wouldn't  be  a 
wholesome  future  for  his  son.  His  future 
belonged  to  the  land.  Here  were  their 
roots — here  on  the  prairie  the  Welks  had 
homesteaded  in  North  Dakota.  .  .  .  Fur- 
thermore, the  accordion  was  much  too  ex- 
pensive, and  Ludwig  would  have  to  buy 
it  on  credit.  This  was  against  his  prin- 
ciples, and  the  whole  family  was  im- 
pressed when  he  agreed  to  do  it.  "That 
was  the  first  thing  our  parents  had  ever 
bought  in   installments,"   says   sister   Eva. 

Ludwig  Welk  had  decided  to  make  a 
gamble.  He  would  pay  out  four  hundred 
dollars  "on  time."  Lawrence  was  seven- 
teen years  old — and,  if  this  would  keep 
him  on  the  farm  for  four  more  years,  it 
would  be  a  worthy  investment.  When  he 
was  twenty-one,  he  would  be  more  ma- 
ture and  he  would  be  able  to  see  that,  in 
this  wonderful  country  of  America,  the 
land  was  his  life.  If,  when  he  was  twenty- 
one,  he  wouldn't  stay — this  was  America,  J 
too.  Freedom  for  a  man  to  believe  as  he 
will,  to  decide  his  own  way.  .  .  . 


But,  to  young  Lawrence,  at  seventeen, 
freedom  was  the  accordion  for  which  he 
waited  with  such  impatient  eagerness.  "It 
was  a  special  accordion,  and  it  took  them 
three  months  to  build  it,"  he  remembers, 
as  vividly  as  yesterday.  "Then,  after  it 
was  finished,  I  still  waited  for  six  weeks. 
Every  day  I  would  hitch  up  the  horse  and 
buggy  and  drive  into  town  to  the  depot, 
to  see  whether  my  accordion  had  come. 
I'd  go  to  town  very  happy,  anticipating  the 
accordion  would  be  there.  But,  on  the 
way  home,  it  wasn't  unusual  for  me  to 
have  tears  in  my  eyes  .  .  .  just  from  dis- 
appointment— and  my  love  for  the  instru- 
ment." 

He'll  never  forget  the  afternoon  the  ac- 
cordion finally  arrived:  "I  got  home 
around  four-thirty,  and  I  played  until 
dinner  time.  I  played  after  dinner — until 
everybody  was  going  to  bed,  and  they 
took  it  away  from  me.  The  next  morn- 
ing, I  was  up  with  the  chickens  .  .  .  and 
playing  it  again." 

To  Lawrence  Welk,  the  four  years  be- 
fore he  turned  twenty-one  .  -.  .  before  he 
was  free  to  follow  his  music  wherever  it 
led  .  .  .  seemed  an  eternity.  He  paid  his 
father  back  in  two  years,  playing  for 
"barn  dances  and  'name  day'  celebrations 
and  wedding  parties."  He  would  make 
five  or  ten  dollars  for  dances — "but  the 
wedding  parties  would  last  three  days, 
and  I  would  bring  home  fifty  or  a  hun- 
dred  dollars." 

On  his  twenty-first  birthday,  his  prom- 
ise to  his  father  fulfilled,  Lawrence  left 
the  sod  house  where  he  had  been  born  . . . 
free  to  follow  the  music — somewhere, 
wherever  it  might  lead.  "I  didn't  have 
any  money,  and  I  had  no  special  place 
to  go.  Then  I  didn't  have  my  heart  set 
on  doing  anything  big  in  the  future,  really. 
I  just  loved  to  play  the  accordion — and 
went  out  hunting  a  job." 

Leaving  the  main  street  of  his  home 
town  behind  him,  he  never  dreamed  a 
day  would  come  when  a  sign  there  would 
read:  "Strasburg,  North  Dakota — Home  of 
Lawrence  Welk."  Ludwig  Welk  had  told 
him  goodbye  with  a  heavy  heart.  Law- 
rence had  repaid  him  for  the  accordion  .  .  . 
but  not  for  an  immigrant  father's  dream 
of  his  sons  farming  and  enriching  the 
land  which  had  been  so  good  to  all  of 
them.  As  Lawrence  says  now,  "I  don't 
think  he  was  too  proud  of  me.  Not  until 
I  quit  fooling  around — playing  with  this 
group  and  that  one — and  treated  music 
more  like  a  business.  After  a  year,  I  be- 
gan to  have  more  purpose." 

Lawrence  had  formed  a  little  band  and 
was  playing  a  dance  at  a  fair  in  Selby, 
South  Dakota,  when  fate  introduced  him 
to  veteran  showman  George  T.  Kelly  and 
his  wife  Alma  .  .  .  two  endearing  people 
to  whom  Lawrence  Welk  feels  so  indebted 
today,  for  the  part  they  played  in  giving 
his  music  purpose — and  in  giving  him  a 
springboard  toward  the  future.  "This  is 
the  man,"  he  says  with  obviously  deep 
emotion,  "who  really  started  me  in  show 
business.  If  it  hadn't  been  for  George  and 
for  Alma — and  all  the  teaching  they  gave 
me — I  don't  think  I  could  ever  have  made 
it." 

During  the  winters,  George  Kelly  had  a 
small  vaudeville  troupe  called  "The  Peer- 
less Entertainers,"  who  doubled  on  in- 
struments, playing  dances  after  their 
shows.  Mrs.  Kelly  sold  tickets,  acted  as 
treasurer,  wardrobe  mistress,  and  gen- 
erally did  whatever  else  needed  to  be 
done  behind  the  scenes.  During  the  sum- 
mers, George  worked  with  carnivals, 
"barking"  the  attractions  on  the  mid- 
way. ...  He  was  in  Selby  with  a  carni- 
val— and  dropped  by  the  local  dance  hall 
one  evening. 

"I  went  up  front  and  sat  down  close  to 
the   stage,"   he    remembers.      "And   I   no- 


ticed this  young  fellow  playing  his  accor- 
dion. He  had  a  lot  of  pep,  a  good  smile, 
and  he  was  continually  moving  with  the 
rhythm  of  the  music.  The  warmth  and 
music  fairly  poured  out  of  him,  and  I  be- 
lieved he  would  be  a  tremendous  asset 
to  my  troupe — although,  at  that  time,  no- 
body was  using  an  accordion  in  traveling 
aggregations." 

Kelly  asked  Welk  how  he  thought  he'd 
like  show  business.  Well,  Lawrence  said, 
he'd  seen  a  medicine  show  under  canvas 
in  Strasburg  once  .  .  .  and  he  thought  he 
might  enjoy  it.  "He  agreed  to  join  our 
troupe,"  the  showman  grins  now.  "How- 
ever, a  difficulty  arose  when  I  found  out 
the  salary  he  was  expecting!  Lawrence 
wanted  fifty  dollars  a  week — and,  at  that 
time,  we  were  hiring  the  best  of  perform- 
ers for  twenty-five  dollars  a  week  and 
expenses." 

"That's  pretty  high,"  he  told  Lawrence. 
But  he  "sized  him  up"  and  knew  Law- 
rence would  be  a  tremendous  drawing 
card  ...  all  the  more  so,  since  their  troupe 
would  be  playing  German  settlements 
throughout  the  Dakotas.  "I'll  tell  you 
what  I'll  do,"  Kelly  proposed.  "I'll  pay 
all  the  expenses,  including  salaries  to  per- 
formers, and  then  we'll  split  the  net  pro- 
ceeds fifty-fifty." 

Lawrence  agreed  heartily.  As  he  laugh- 
ingly says  now,  "I  had  learned  that  it  was 
good  business  not  to  be  overanxious.  I 
would  have  gladly  accepted  George's  first 
offer — but  I  paused  a  little  bit.  And,  when 
I  paused,  George  went  up  on  the  price!" 

o alary  seemed  of  small  moment  imme- 
diately, anyway,  since  they  were  opening 
in  a  little  place  in  South  Dakota  called 
Westport,  where  George  Kelly  wanted  to 
break  in  his  inexperienced  troupe — which 
consisted  of  Harry  Woodmancy,  a  saxo- 
phonist, and  Lawrence  and  himself.  "They 
were  about  as  bashful  as  anybody  could 
be.  And  I  was  just  as  skeptical  whether 
I  would  be  able  to  get  them  to  say  any 
lines     whatsoever — especially     Lawrence." 

They  were  set  for  the  town  hall  in 
Westport,  and  Kelly  was  anxious  to  have 
a  dress  rehearsal  the  afternoon  of  the 
show.  But  there'd  been  an  election,  and 
somebody  had  brought  the  stove  right  up 
in  the  middle  of  the  stage,  to  keep  the 
city  fathers  warm  while  they  counted  the 
votes.  George  and  his  "troupe"  were  car- 
rying the  stove  and  its  pipe  back  down, 
when  a  group  of  women  walked  in. 

"I  thought  they  had  a  squawk  of  some 
kind,"  Kelly  grins.  "Some  towns  weren't 
partial  to  dancing  then,  and  I  was  appre- 
hensive. However,  they  were  a  committee 
from  the  Ladies'  Aid,  and  they  wanted  to 
know  if  I  would  have  any  objection  to 
their  serving  a  'supper'  at  the  dance,  with 
the  proceeds  to  be  used  for  a  local  char- 
ity. Naturally,  I  was  elated,  and  I  figured 
we  might  have  a  fair  little  house.  When 
the  doors  opened,  they  literally  started 
piling  in!  Lawrence  was  peeking  through 
a  hole  in  the  curtain — and,  as  the  crowd 
grew  bigger,  his  knees  clicked  louder. 
The  ladies  sent  men  out  to  a  nearby  pool 
hall  to  lug  chairs  in.  They  brought  planks, 
soda-pop  cases — anything  they  could  find 
— for  seats. 

"Lawrence  and  Woodmancy  really  had 
stage  fright,  but  we  went  out,  sat  down 
and  started  the  overture  behind  the  cur- 
tain. When  the  curtain  rose,  they  imme- 
diately became  old  troupers.  As  long  as 
they  could  hide  behind  their  instruments, 
they  felt  better.  They'd  both  been  used 
to  playing  for  crowds  at  dances,  and  that 
was  a  big  help.  When  we  started  the 
sketches — well,  they  missed  lines,  but  it 
only  added  to  the  fun." 

When,  at  the  end  of  the  evening,  Mrs. 
Kelly  told  them  they'd  taken  in  a  hun- 
dred and  sixty-five  dollars,  they  were  all 


NEW 
HOMES 
GUIDE 

.  .  .  THE  "LAST  WORD" 
IN  GRACIOUS  LIVING 


SiSSs . 


Don't  miss  this  colorful,  design-filled 
magazine  ...  it  can  make  your  dreams 
come  true 

FEATURED   IN  THIS  ISSUE 
"10  Trend  Homes  U.S.A." 

.  .  .  here's  how  America's  homes  are 
being  built  today 

"60  pages  of  top  architect-designed 
houses  and  plans" 

.  .  .  with  "just  the  house"  you've  al- 
ways wanted 

• 

FINANCE   AND   INSURANCE 

CONSTRUCTION 

• 

SERVICE  EQUIPMENT 

heating,  kitchen,  laundry  and  bath 

AND 

A  FULL  SECTION  ON  DECORATING  AND 
FURNISHING 

Get  NEW  HOMES  GUIDE 

NOW  AT  ALL  NEWSSTANDS 
If  sold  out,   use  this  coupon 


■  BARTH   HOUSE 

8-WG    J 

!  205  E.  42  St., 

New  York  17 

,  N.  Y. 

*  Sirs: 

1  1    enclose    50c 

($1.00    if    Cane 

dian    order).  ( 

1  Please    forward 

NEW    HOMES 

GUIDE-38th  J 

J  edition. 

77 


78 


elated.  Lawrence  couldn't  get  over  it. 
"George,"  he  said,  "we'll  all  be  million- 
aires before  this  is  over!" 

They  played  one-night  stands  in  opera 
halls,  and  often  in  empty  bank  buildings. 
Lawrence  Welk  became  increasingly  ver- 
satile. He  played  the  heavy  in  one  skit 
called  "The  Patent  Pusher,"  in  which 
Kelly  portrayed  a  Swedish  inventor  and 
Lawrence  was  the  villain  trying  to  steal 
his  inventions.  "George  was  always  try- 
ing to  make  an  actor  out  of  me,"  Lawrence 
laughs.  "I  gave  him  a  hard  time — but  not 
intentionally." 

Welk's  accordion  specialty  was  "Valen- 
cia." For  this,  he  appeared  in  full  cos- 
tume, dressed  as  a  Spanish  matador.  "Mom 
used  to  wind  his  sash  on  him,"  George 
Kelly  recalls,  "and  Lawrence  would  stand 
there  and  go  'round  and  'round.  On  stage, 
I  would  announce,  'And  now  I  want  you 
to  meet  the  youngest,  the  best-looking,  the 
finest,  the  most  distinguished  accordion- 
ist  in   America — Lawrence   Welk!" 

Enthusiastic  audiences  (particularly, 
Kelly  observes,  the  lady  patrons)  agreed 
with  that  glowing  introduction.  For  four 
years,  an  increasingly  popular  Lawrence 
traveled  with  The  Peerless  Entertainers, 
grateful  for  all  the  experience  and  knowl- 
edge he  could  absorb  .  .  .  and  touchingly 
appreciative  of  Mrs.  Kelly's  kindness  and 
encouragement  in  helping  him  to  use  bet- 
ter English  and  to  overcome  some  of  the 
accent  which  now  really  troubled  him. 

His  public,  however,  seemed  completely 
unaware  of  any  such  problems.  "They 
were  all  eyes  for  Lawrence  and  his  ac- 
cordion," Kelly  smiles.  "Throughout  our 
tour  of  the  Dakotas,  Montana  and  Minne- 
sota, people  followed  us  from  show  to 
show,  until  we  got  so  far  away  they 
couldn't  make  it«—  Lawrence  always  had 
crowds  around  him,  and  he  made  them 
all  feel  they  were  his  friends." 

That  same  reaction  was  soon  apparent 
in  Yankton,  South  Dakota,  as  crowds 
jammed  the  small  radio  studio  where  Law- 
rence broadcast  with  his  newly-formed, 
six-piece  band.  So  many  nurses  from  the 
hospital  raved  about  him  that  attractive 
but  skeptical  Fern  Renner,  who  was  in 
training  there,  finally  went  along  with 
them  to  the  studio  one  day.  But  she  re- 
mained the  lone  holdout  against  the  mass 
adulation  for  Lawrence  Welk  for  some 
time  .  .  .  almost  until  she  married  him. 

"When  the  broadcast  was  over,  but  be- 
fore we  could  leave  the  studio  that  day," 
Fern  recalls,  "Lawrence  put  down  his  ac- 
cordion and  walked  straight  out  into  the 
audience  to  talk  to  us.  He  wanted  me  to 
go  to  dinner  with  him,  but  I  got  the  im- 
pression he  was  conceited,  and  I  didn't 
want  to  go.  Finally,  I  agreed — if  he'd  take 
one  of  the  other  girls  along."  He  was  a 
perfect  gentleman,  but  Fern  Renner  saw 
no  future  there:  "I'd  always  felt  traveling 
musicians  were  just  like  sailors — a  girl 
in  every  port." 

However,  since  they  shared  the  same 
religion,  they  met  frequently  in  church 
and  became  better  acquainted.  Lawrence 
left  South  Dakota  to  tour  with  his  band — 
and  Fern  went  to  Texas  to  work  in  a 
Dallas  hospital  as  a  laboratory  technician 
and  anesthetist  .  .  .  but  fate  still  kept  a 
friendly  eye  on  the  man  who  was  meant 
to  make  so  much  happy,  sparkling  music 
for  the  world. 

Fern  Renner  just  happened  to  be  in 
Denver,  Colorado,  for  a  few  days'  vaca- 
tion .  .  .  and  she  just  happened  to  read 
in  the  newspapers  that  Lawrence  and  his 
band  were  playing  there.  She  called  him. 
And,  the  following  day — while  showing 
her  the  majestic  scenery — he  proposed. 

They  were  married,  one  April  morning, 
in  the  Sacred  Heart  Cathedral  in  Sioux 
Falls,  South  Dakota  .  .  .  and  left  on  a 
series     of     one-nighters     which,     in     the 


opinion  of  Fern's  husband,  could  have 
fractured  a  more  fragile  bride.  Today, 
Lawrence  pays  tribute  to  the  attractive 
woman  who  has  shared  in  his  career  story: 
"She's  been  able  to  take  it  .  .  .  all  the 
way  from  hardships  to  later  on,  when 
things  got  better.  Fern's  a  perfect  wife, 
as  well  as  a  perfect  mother." 

From  the  start,  Fern  Welk's  calm  cour- 
age and  encouragement  ...  as  a  former 
nurse  familiar  with  life  and  death,  and 
with  people  and  crises  of  all  kinds  .  .  . 
was  always  there  to  strengthen  the  confi- 
dence of  a  shy,  uneducated  North  Da- 
kota farm  boy  who  was  moving  up  in 
his  world  of  music — and  increasingly  sen- 
sitive to  his  own  inadequacies.  "You  have 


nothing  to  worry  about,"  Fern  reassured 
him.  "Just  forget  you  didn't  have  those 
advantages.  You  don't  need  to  worry." 
Wherever  Welk  played,  people  listened. 
But  there  were  tough  years,  getting  his 
music  to  enough  of  them.  Years  of  weary- 
ing one-nighters  ...  of  driving  all  night 
crosscountry  ...  of  humid  hotel  rooms — 
sleeping  with  the  sun.  And  of  nightmare 
experiences,  such  as  driving  to  a  booking 
in  Phoenix,  Arizona — and  finding  the  ball- 
room had  closed:  "We'd  been  driving  for 
two  days,  from  Quincy,  Illinois,  and  we'd 
had  nothing  but  trouble  all  the  way,"  re- 
calls Chuck  Coffee,  a  saxophone  player 
who  was  then  with  Welk's  band.  "We'd 
had  eighteen  flats,  getting  there.    Then  we 


1/ote 


FOR  YOUR  FAVORITES 


Each  year  TV  Radio  Mirror  polls  its  readers  for  their  favorite  programs 
and  performers.  This  year,  for  the  first  time,  the  polling  was  begun  in 
the  July  issue  and  confines  until  the  end  of  the  year.  Results  will  be 
tabulated  after  December  31,  and  award  winners  will  be  announced  in 
the  May  1958  issue.  So  vote  today.  Help  your  favorites  to  win  a  Gold  Medal. 


TV  STARS  and  PROGRAMS 

Male  Singer 

Female  Singer   

Comedian     

Comedienne     

Dramatic   Actor    

Dramatic  Actress    

Daytime  Emcee   

Evening    Emcee    

Musical   Emcee    

Quizmaster     

Western    Star    

News  Commentator    

Sportscaster     

Best  New  Star   

Daytime    Drama    

Evening    Drama     

Daytime  Variety    .  .  . 

Evening    Variety    

Comedy  Program    

Music  Program    

Quiz  Program    

Women's   Program    

Children's    Program    

Mystery   or    Adventure    

Western  Program    

TV   Panel  Show    

Best  Program  on  Air    

Best  New  Program    

TV  Husband-and-Wife  Team... 


RADIO  STARS  and  PROGRAMS 

Male  Singer 

Female  Singer 

Comedian     

Comedienne     

Dramatic   Actor    

Dramatic  Actress    

Daytime  Emcee  

Evening    Emcee    

Musical   Emcee    

Quizmaster     

Western    Star    

News  Commentator    

Sportscaster       

Best  New  Star  

Daytime    Drama    

Evening    Drama     

Daytime  Variety    

Evening    Variety    

Comedy  Program    

Music   Program      

Quiz   Program    

Women's   Program    

Children's    Program    

Mystery    or   Adventure    

Western  Program    

Radio  Record  Program    

Best  Program  on  Air    

Best  New  Program    


Send  your  votes  to  TV  Radio  Mirror  Awards,  P.O.  Box 
No.  1767,  Grand  Central  Station,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 


8-5 


found  the  place  had  folded.  Lawrence 
pawned  his  only  ring,  so  the  band  could 
eat.  Then  he  talked  stockholders  into  re- 
opening the  ballroom." 

Fern  Welk  has  reasons  of  her  own  for 
remembering  this  situation  in  graphic  de- 
tail. "We  were  on  a  spot,"  she  under- 
states it  simply.  "We'd  managed  trans- 
portation for  the  boys,  clear  from  the 
Middle  West,  and  it  was  expensive.  We'd 
counted  on  the  Phoenix  engagement  .  .  . 
then  the  place  was  closed  up.  And  it  had 
been  such  a  rough  trip.  We  had  no 
time  .  .  .  we'd  traveled  all  through  the 
night  to  get  there."  While  her  husband 
was  persuading  the  stockholders  to  reopen 
their  ballroom,  Fern  Welk  went  to  bed — 
deathly  ill.  "I  was  three  months'  preg- 
nant, and  I  was  feeling  miserable." 

She  quit  the  tour  a  few  weeks  before 
their  first  baby  was  born,  going  to  Dallas 
to  stay  with  two  nurse  friends,  while 
Lawrence  continued  playing  one-nighters. 
He  was  in  Denver  .  .  .  the  same  city  in 
which  he'd  proposed  to  Fern  .  .  .  when 
one  of  the  nurses  phoned  to  tell  him  he 
had    a   beautiful   baby    daughter. 

Shirley  Welk  was  six  weeks  old  before 
her  enchanted  father  saw  her.  For  a  man 
with  Lawrence's  love  for  home  and  fam- 
ily, there  were  to  be  many  personal  sac- 
rifices during  those  first  years  he  was 
making  music.  Many  important  family 
events  he  couldn't  share.  "Dad  drove  all 
night  through  the  rain,  trying  to  make  my 
First  Communion,"  his  beautiful,  dark- 
eyed  Shirley  remembers.  "Then,  when  he 
got  there,  we  were  just  coming  out  of  the 
church.    He  was  heartbroken." 

The  family  was  then  headquartering  in 
Pittsburgh.  Later,  they  moved  to  River 
Forest,  just  outside  Chicago.  His  younger 
daughter  Donna  says,  "I  think  Dad  made 
my  Communion — but  not  my  Confirmation. 
He  made  my  graduation — but  not  my 
eighth-grade.  We  were  always  so  happy 
to  see  him  .  .  .  and  always  so  sad  when 
he  had  to  leave  again."  Then  irrepress- 
ible, teen-aged  Donna  laughs,  "I'll  never 
forget  the  time  our  younger  brother  Law- 
rence helped  Dad  pack.  He  was  just  three 
years  old  and,  when  nobody  was  looking, 
he  put  in  one  brown  shoe  and  one  black. 
When  Dad  got  to  that  engagement,  he 
really  had  some  explaining  to  do!" 

However  hectic  or  frantic  conditions 
might  be,  the  family  usually  spent  their 
summers  with  Lawrence,  when  the  school 
term  was  over.  And  sometimes  condi- 
tions were  hectic  indeed.  Shirley  recalls 
the  split-timing  necessary  when  her  father 
flew  from  Denver  to  Chicago,  just  in  time 
for  her  high-school  graduation:  "We  were 
all  packed  to  go  back  on  the  train  with 
him,  and  the  'City  of  Denver'  was  making 
a  special  stop  at  the  next  suburb— Oak 
Park — just  to  pick  us  up.  As  soon  as  the 
graduation  ceremony  was  over,  we  threw 
our  bags  in  the  car,  made  a  wild  drive, 
and  boarded  the  train  .  .  .  bound  for 
Elitch's   Gardens   in   Colorado." 

Music  was  Lawrence  Welk's  life-blood, 
therefore  it  was  their  way  of  life,  too  .  .  . 
something  which  Ludwig  Welk  himself — 
who  made  the  initial  investment  in  that 
music — had  come  to  realize  before  he  died. 
For  Ludwig  lived  to  see  the  beginning  of 
his  son's  success  .  .  .  though,  ironically, 
he  died  just  as  Lawrence  was  playing  his 
first  important  band  date,  the  Hotel  St. 
Paul  in  Minnesota.  But  Ludwig  had  lived 
to  see  his  son  make  a  thriving  business  of 
his  music.  To  know  the  pride  his  home 
town,  Strasburg,  had  in  him.  And  to  be 
proud  that  his  boy  could  contribute  to  the 
country  which  had  been  so  generous  to 
all  of  them.  "Dad  knew  Lawrence  was  on 
i  his  way — that  he  was  achieving — that  was 
the  important  thing,"  says  sister  Eva,  who 
was  living  with  her  parents  then. 

But  there  were  times,  in  those  first  days 

1 


of  struggle,  when  Lawrence  himself  won- 
dered if  he'd  made  the  right  decision  in 
leaving  his  father's  farm.  With  success 
increasingly  in  sight,  there  was  still  an- 
other battle  to  be  won.  Moving  up  into 
the  world  of  music,  playing  to  a  more  so- 
phisticated audience,  there  were  occa- 
sions— such  as  an  important  "prestige" 
booking  in  Chicago — when  Lawrence  felt 
that  his  father  had  been  right.  He  should 
have  stayed  with  the  land.  With  his  lack 
of  education,  his  inadequacies,  what  right 
did  he  have  in  this  more  glittering  world? 
He  had  dreamed  of  playing  this  par- 
ticular booking — someday.  But  he  was 
very  discouraged  when  he  opened  there. 
"This  was  something  he'd  wanted  so  much, 
but  they  didn't  want  him  to  play  the  ac- 
cordion," Fern  says  simply.  "They  thought 
it  wasn't  dignified  enough  for  the  place. 
They  didn't  want  him  to  shake  his  head 
in  time  with  the  music — that  wasn't  'dig- 
nified enough,'  either.  But  Lawrence  loves 
the  accordion,  and  it  was  already  his 
trademark.  And  bobbing  his  head — that's 
as  much  a  part  of  him  as  anything.  To 
take  all  these  things  from  him,  well.  .  .  ." 

Though  Fern  could  tell  that  Lawrence 
was  very  worried  about  something,  he 
would  say  nothing  about  what  was  trou- 
bling him  during  the  first  days  of  that 
engagement:  "Lawrence  never  did  want 
to  worry  me — he  always  felt  somehow  he 
should  straighten  things  out  for  himself." 
But,  one  night,  she  awakened  to  find  him 
sitting  up  in  bed  and  gazing  out  the  win- 
dow in  an  attitude  of  obvious  despair. 

And,  finally,  he  said,  "I  guess  I'm  just 
too  much  of  a  farmer.  I  guess  I  should 
have  stayed  on  the  farm." 

"You've  done  very  well,"  his  wife  re- 
minded him.  "Just  because  somebody  is 
trying  to  change  your  ways  ...  I  wouldn't 
let  that  affect  me.  This  isn't  the  only 
place.  There  are  many  places  that  would 
be  glad  to  have  you."  She  spoke  of  the 
many  other  places  he  had  played — always 
successfully. 

It  was  as  true  then  as  it  is  today.  As 
Fern  Welk  says  now,  "He  was  a  success 
everywhere  he  went.  And,  from  the 
audience  viewpoint,  he  was  successful 
when  he  played  that  place,  too!"  For  all 
the  management's  preconceived  ideas, 
their  "dignified"  patrons  wanted  Welk  and 
his  accordion — and  Lawrence  bobbing  his 
head  in  time  with  the  beat.  They  kept 
him  all  summer,  by  public  demand. 

Just  as,  later  on,  his  public  demanded 
Lawrence  Welk  across  the  nation — on 
television — when  he  came  West  and  played 
the  Aragon  Ballroom  and  had  a  local  TV 
show  which  captured  them  and  blanked 
out  all  network  opposition  in  Southern 
California.  There  was  no  place  for  bands 
on  network  television,  the  top  brass  had 
said.  But  ...  in  much  the  same  way  his 
father,  Ludwig  Welk,  had  homesteaded  in 
North  Dakota  and  proved  that  land  rich 
and  fruitful  .  .  .  Lawrence  Welk  staked  a 
claim  for  bands  on  television — and  pio- 
neered for  the  music  that  is  the  most  pop- 
ular and  beloved  in  America  today.  The 
music  that  reflects  the  heritage  of  the 
man  who  plays  it  .  .  .  the  language  and 
rhythm  of  the  good  earth. 

In  this  month  of  July — with  its  day 
honoring  freedom,  when  flags  wave  with 
a  special  meaning  and  purpose — a  flag 
waves  over  a  plot  of  land  in  Strasburg, 
North  Dakota  ...  a  park  dedicated  to 
Lawrence  Welk,  the  farm  boy  who  topk 
his  gay  polkas  and  music  out  into  the 
world  and  won  a  nationwide  audience 
with  his  sincerity  and  joy  in  playing  that 
music.  This  month  and  every  month — 
come  Saturday,  come  Monday — on  tele- 
vision screens  across  the  land  his  father 
loved  so  much,  Lawrence  Welk  brings  to 
life  the  happiness  and  gratitude  of  Ludwig 
Welk  .  .  .  his  thanks  to  America. 


Looking 

for 
modernizing 

ideas? 

Your  search  is  over 


HOME    MODERNIZING    GUIDE 

is  the  answer  to  the  home-owner's 
dreams  of  modern  living.  Pictures  and 
plans  for  getting  that  new  and  differ- 
ent look  for  your  home. 

INSURANCE  — FINANCE— HOW 
TO   MOVE  A  HOUSE 

It's  all  here  in  this  great  newsstand 
bargain.  200  pages  of  practical,  test- 
proven  ideas. 

Don't  miss  it — Get 
HOME  MODERNIZING  GUIDE 

NOW  AT  ALL  NEWSSTANDS 

if  your  newsdealer  has  sold  out,  use 
this  coupon 

1 1 

BARTH    HOUSE  8-WG 

205  E.  42  St.,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 

Sirs: 

I  enclose  50c  (60c  if  Canadian  order).  Please 
forward  HOME  MODERNIZING  GUIDE- 
9th  edition. 


Name. . . 
Address  . 
City.... 


Zone ....    State . 


79 


(Continued  from  page  27) 
up  to  him  and  asked,  "Aren't  you  Grace 
Sands'  boy?"  Just  to  give  him  his  come- 
uppance and  keep  his  feet  on  firm  ground. 
Actually,  there  is  little  chance  of  suc- 
cess spoiling  Tommy  Sands.  He  has  had 
his  share  of  heartaches,  and  he  has  seen 
the  darker  side  of  success,  too.  Don't  for- 
get he's  been  in  show  business  most  of 
his  life.  At  eight,  he  walked  into  a  radio 
station  down  in  Shreveport,  asked  for  a 
singing  job  and  got  it.  That  took  spunk. 
At  fifteen,  when  his  voice  was  changing, 
a  lot  of  people  were  going  around  saying 
Tommy  was  all  washed  up.  Maybe  he 
was — as  a  cute  little  boy  in  a  cowboy  suit, 
singing  Western  songs.  But  he  had  to 
learn  how  to  take  these  knocks  with  the 
same  calm,  humility  and  good  humor  with 
which  he  took  the  applause.  And  he  had 
to   find   new   channels  for  his   talent. 

That's  what  I'm  trying  to  tell  you  all 
now.  I  want  to  make  clear  why  I,  his 
mother,  think  he'll  go  on  to  even  greater 
success  without  getting  a  swelled  head,  or 
why  he  won't  lose  faith  if  the  toboggan 
should  happen  to  go  down. 

My  boy  Tommy  has  character.  Put  just 
that  way,  I  realize  it  sounds  like  a  mother 
bragging.  But  people  who  know  me  will 
say  that  I'm  as  quick  to  point  out  Tommy's 
mistakes  as  I  am  to  take  notice  of  his 
good  points.  He  does  have  character — and 
that,  with  God's  help,  will  see  him  through. 

Coming  home  from  This  Is  Your  Life 
("Life"? — he's  nineteen  years  old!),  I  no- 
ticed that  he  looked  very  thoughtful.  I 
asked  him  why.  This  is  more  or  less  what 
he  answered:  "When  Ralph  Edwards  was 
bringing  all  those  people  on  stage  and 
telling  how  they  had  helped  me,  I  kept 
thinking  to  myself,  But  these  are  just  a 
few  outstanding  ones.  What  about  all  the 
others?  Uncle  Charlie  and  Aunt  Bert 
(who  have  passed  on) — the  friends  like 
Dr.  and  Mrs.  Shavin,  Lynn  Trosper,  Dr. 
and  Mrs.  Moers  and  Betty,  Harmie  Smith, 
my  teachers  and  so  many  others? 

"It  keeps  pounding  in  my  head,  Mama. 
Why  should  so  many  fine  people  have 
gone  to  so  much  trouble  for  me,  encour- 
aging me,  cheering  me  on  when  the  going 
got  real  rough,  keeping  their  faith  in  me 
so  long — what  have  I  done  to  deserve  all 
that?  Because,  when  these  people  did  all 
that  for  me,  they  expected  nothing  in 
return — some  of  them  probably  didn't  ever 
expect  I'd  make  good.  They  didn't  care. 
They  did  it  out  of  friendship.  Mama,  I'm 
the  luckiest  fellow  in  the  world." 

He  means  it,  too.  That  I'll  vouch  for. 
In  an  age  when  parents  and  children 
seem  to  be  so  much  at  odds  with  each 
other,  and  there  is  so  much  talk  about 
youngsters  "rebelling,"  I  feel  Tommy  and 
I  have  built  up  a  good  healthy  friendship 
based  on  mutual  respect  and  understand- 
ing. I've  never  forced  my  ways  on  him 
and  I've  tried  to  let  him  make  his  own 
mistakes.  Because  I  believe  in  the  quality 
of  his  character. 

I  just  used  the  word  "respect."  For 
reasons  I  can't  understand,  that  seems  to 
have  gone  out  of  style  these  days.  Chil- 
dren are  taught  to  treat  their  elders  as 
equals.  They  call  their  parents — and  even 
their  grandparents — by  their  first  names, 
and  sometimes  by  their  nicknames.  I'm 
happy  to  say  Tommy  is  not  like  that  and 
never  has  been.  When  he  was  a  child 
playing  the  guitar  and  singing  on  radio 
and  television  in  Shreveport,  Houston  and 
Chicago,  he  had  to  work  with  older  people, 
y  performers  with  years  of  experience.  I 
R  tried  to  make  it  clear  that  he  was  to  be 
treated  as  a  small  boy,  not  as  an  equal. 

And  I  did  the  same  with  Tommy.  He 
always  said  "Mr."  and  "Miss."  He  even 
80 


My  Sentimental  Tommy 

called  Biff  Collie  (only  ten  years  his 
senior  and  as  dear  to  him  as  a  brother) 
"Mr.  Collie" — that  is,  until  last  summer, 
when  Biff  visited  Hollywood  and  stayed 
with  us  a  while. 

Tommy  has  consideration,  too.  And  this 
consideration  hasn't  been  reserved  for 
adults,  either.  Recently,  a  school  chum 
from  Houston  came  to  town.  Since  our 
phone  is  unlisted,  the  boy  called  a  mutual 
friend  here  and  reached  us  that  way. 
Tommy  was  delighted  to  see  him  and 
asked  him  along  to  Clime  Stone's  Home- 
town Jamboree,  where  he  was  to  sing. 
After  the  show,  Tommy  was  literally 
mobbed  by  the  youngsters — mostly  girls, 
I'm  pleased  to  point  out  for  the  benefit  of 
Tommy — who  is  so  modest  (thank  good- 
ness!) that  he's  almost  unconscious  of  his 
own  physical  charms — that,  though  he  came 
out  of  the  melee  minus  half  a  shirt  and  a 
number  of  buttons  (this  is  not  a  pun), 
his  only  concern  was  for  his  friend,  who'd 
got  lost  in  the  crowd. 

Tommy  waited  and,  when  the  friend 
didn't  appear,  finally  returned  home. 
Later,  the  young  man  called  to  explain 
that  he  was  afraid  he'd  have  been  in  the 
way  and  had  thumbed  a  ride  back  to  his 
hotel.  Tommy  was  terribly  upset:  "What 
does  he  mean,  'in  the  way'?  What  kind  of 
friend  does  he  take  me  for?  I  was  so  glad 
to  see  him,  and  here  we've  had  hardly  a 
few  words  with  each  other.  I'm  going  to 
call  him  back  and  apologize."  He  did,  and 
wouldn't  hang  up  until  his  friend  swore 
he  was  not  hurt,  that  he  understood 
Tommy's  predicament  perfectly  and  would 
be  around  in  the  morning  for  a  long  talk. 

This  is  a  good  place  for  me  to  inject  a 
warning.  In  spite  of  "character,"  my  boy 
Tommy  is  far  from  growing  wings  and  a 
halo.  He  makes  mistakes  and  some  of 
them  are  sure- enough  whoppers.  For  in- 
stance, horseback  riding.  It's  one  of  his 
favorite  sports,  though  he  hasn't  had  much 
time  for  it  lately.  But,  when  he  was  a 
boy  in  Louisiana  and  just  learning  to  ride, 
he  started  showing  off.  One  of  my  friends 
said,  "Grace,  do  tell  him  to  stop  that 
clowning." 

I  said,  "I  don't  have  to  tell  him — the 
horse  will."  Well,  just  then  the  horse 
stopped  short  and  pitched  Tommy  head 
over  heels  into  a  mess  of  briar.  Nowa- 
days, when  he  gets  into  a  mood  and  seems 
ready  to  act  up  a  little  (oh,  yes,  he  has 
his  moments),  I  just  look  him  in  the  eye 
and  say,  "Tommy,  I  don't  have  to  tell 
you — the   horse   will." 

On  the  subject  of  mistakes:  When 
Tommy  decided  to  leave  Lamar  High 
School  in  Houston  to  take  a  disc- jockey 
job   in   Shreveport,    I   felt   it   was   a   mis- 


MRS.  ED  SULLIVAN 

tells  about  Sullivan's  travels! 


RICKY  NELSON 

Ozzie  and  Harriet's  singing  son! 

• 

THE  QUIZ  KINGS 

and  how  to  get  on  their  shows! 

• 

TV  RADIO  MIRROR 

September  issue  on  sale  August  6 


take.  I  thought  he  was  being  headstrong. 
And  I  argued  the  issue  with  him,  though 
I  left  all  decisions  open  for  him  to  make. 

We  talked  it  over  several  times.  My 
side  of  it  ran  like  this:  "You've  had  little 
enough  fun,  as  it  is,"  I  pointed  out.  "You've 
been  working  since  you  were  eight.  Now 
you  want  to  quit  school,  just  a  few  months 
before  graduation,  to  take  this  deejay  job. 
Why  not  get  your  diploma,  go  to  college 
and  have  a  little  fun  while  completing 
your   education?    There'll   be   other   jobs.'' 

But  Tommy  was  set  on  going.  "Maybe 
I  missed  out  on  some  of  the  games  other 
boys  play,"  he  reasoned,  "but  I've  had 
plenty  of  fun.  Playing  the  guitar  and 
singing,  acting,  studying  music  and 
theater — all  of  that  was  fun.  For  me,  the 
best  kind  of  fun.  As  for  school,  I  promise 
you  that  someday  I'll  finish  my  educa- 
tion— but  I  can't  miss  this  chance.  It 
might  lead  to  something  big." 

I  even  called  his  principal,  Mr.  Wright 
He,  too,  spoke  to  Tommy.  That  afternoon. 
Tommy  came  home.  He  looked  confused 
and  miserable.  Finally,  he  said,  "Mama, 
there's  only  one  thing  that  can  stop  me 
from  taking  that  job.  If  you  order  me 
not  to  go,  I'll  give  in  and  finish  school." 

It  was  one  of  the  hardest  decisions  I 
ever  had  to  make.  I  was  tempted  to  play 
the  heavy-handed  mother  and  say,  "All 
right,  I  order  you  to  finish  school."  But 
that  would  have  meant  breaking  a  rule  of 
conduct  I  had  always  preached  to  him.  It 
would  have  meant  that  all  my  words  about 
independence  of  mind  and  learning  by  his 
own  mistakes  were  false.  I  said,  "Tommy, 
I  won't  go  back  on  what  I've  taught  you. 
You  know  I'd  like  you  to  get  an  education, 
and  you  know  why.  But  it's  your  decision 
to  make,  for  good  or  bad.  Follow  your 
conscience." 

li  still  feel  he  should  have  gone  to  col- 
lege. And  I  know  that  he  has  come  to  feel 
it,  too.  But  who  can  say  that  he  made 
this  sacrifice  for  nothing?  By  taking  that 
job,  he  was  able  to  save  enough  money 
for  our  trip  to  Hollywood.  And  it  was  in 
Hollywood  that  he  got  his  big  break.  If, 
in  the  years  ahead,  he  comes  to  me  and 
asks,  "Would  I  have  done  better  the  other 
way?" — I  honestly  don't  know  what  I'll 
answer.  Sometimes,  you  must  make  great 
sacrifices  to  get  your  heart's  desire.  As 
Browning  says,  "A  man's  reach  should 
exceed  his  grasp,  or  what's  a  heaven  for?" 

Tommy  is  no  angel,  by  far.  For  one  thing, 
he's  the  most  "forgetfulest"  boy.  Right 
at  this  time,  it's  no  wonder.  In  the  space 
of  a  few  months,  he's  had  to  rehearse  the 
Steve  Allen  and  Jack  Benny  shows,  ap- 
pear twice  on  the  Kraft  Television  Theater, 
several  times  with  Tennessee  Ernie  Ford, 
and  the  weekly  Cliffie  Stone  show.  Then 
he's  had  to  cut  a  number  of  new  records, 
give  dozens  of  interviews,  and  go  here, 
there  and  the  other  place  for  the  sake  of 
his  career.  Naturally,  he's  forgetful.  He'd 
have  to  be  one  of  those  Univac  machines 
not  to  be  forgetful. 

The  fact  is,  however,  that  he  has  always 
been  like  that.  When  he  was  just  a  teen- 
ager, working  as  a  disc  jockey  for  KCIJ 
in  Shreveport,  the  manager  of  the  station 
put  up  two  signs  just  for  Tommy's  benefit, 
because  he  was  the  one  who  closed  up 
shop  at  night.  The  first  sign  read: 
"Tommy!  Shut  Off  All  Lights!"  Then,  on 
the  door  our  boy  had  to  pass  going  out, 
was  the  other  sign:  "Tommy!  Shut  Off 
Lights,  Please!" 

The  night  he  was  to  leave  Hollywood 
for  New  York,  to  go  on  the  Steve  Allen 
show,  he  arrived  home  after  six.  The 
train  was  to  leave  at  eight.  "Where  were 
you?"  I  asked,  "And  where  are  the  slacks 
and  jackets  you  were  to  pick  up  at  the 


cleaner's?"  After  some  hemming  and 
hawing,  the  truth  came  out.  He'd  been 
walking  along  the  street,  daydreaming, 
and  finally  day-dreamed  his  way  into  a 
movie.  By  the  time  he  got  out,  the  cleaner 
was  closed.  So  off  he  went  to  New  YoFk 
with  a  wardrobe  that  would  have  shamed 
anyone  but  Tommy.  He  took  it  all  very 
casually  and  bought  himself  a  new  suit 
in  New  York. 

This  is  an  old  story,  of  course.  He  has 
always  been  casual  with  clothes.  He 
favors  sports  attire.  But,  though  casual, 
he's  no  faddist.  Nor  is  he  the  type  who 
protests  against  the  world  by  wearing 
outlandish  duds.  When  the  occasion  calls 
for  it,  he  can  get  quite  dressy.  At  the 
Academy  Awards,  when  he  sang  "Friendly 
Persuasion,"  he  wore  a  full  dress  suit — 
and  did  it  with  such  an  air,  you'd  think 
he'd  been  wearing  one  all  his  life. 

It's  funny,  but  I've  learned  that  publicity 
works  two  ways.  I've  given  out  a  good 
many  statements  by  now,  on  Tommy  and 
our  struggles  together  and  how  it  feels  .  .  . 
et  cetera,  et  cetera.  But  I've  also  found 
out  a  few  things  I  didn't  know  about 
Tommy,  while  reading  stories  about  him. 
For  example,  I  had  never  realized  he  was 
such  a  parsley  addict.  He  must  have  de- 
veloped a  taste  for  it  in  Louisiana,  where 
we  always  had  some  growing.  According 
to  what  I  read,  he  would  just  pick  a  sprig 
from  the  field,  wash  it  and  eat  it.  I  sup- 
pose I  never  knew  this  because  I'm  not 
one  to  take   cooking  seriously. 

Thanksgiving  and  Christmas  on  the  farm 
were  always  very  dear  to  Tommy  as  a  boy. 
My  Aunt  Bert  was  a  genius  at  cooking 
and  would  whip  up  batches  of  cookies  and 
candies.  Tommy  was  the  best  "spoon- 
and  pot-licker"  for  miles  around.  He 
often  kids  me  on  this  score.  "You  sure 
didn't  inherit  Aunt  Bert's  talent  for  cook- 
ing," he  tells  me.  It's  true,  you  know. 
Cooking  is  not  one  of  my  gifts.  "One 
good  thing,  son,"  I  always  tell  him,  "your 
wife  will  never  have  to  listen  to  that 
old  saw,  'Why  can't  you  cook  like  my 
mother? ' " 

Did  I  say  "wife"?  Well,  it's  a  little  soon 
for  it,  although  I  have  a  hunch  my  boy 
will  marry  young.  And  I'm  all  for  it. 
Some  of  my  friends  are  sure  I'll  be  sorry 
I  said  this.  I  don't  agree,  but  I  know 
what's  in  their  minds.  Tommy's  father 
was  a  pianist  who  had  to  travel  about  a 
great  deal  in  order  to  earn  his  living.  My 
older  boy  Edward,  twelve  years  Tommy's 
senior,  was  almost  grown  when  Tommy 
was  born.  Tommy  and  I  were  left  alone 
a  great  deal  and  had  to  depend  on  one 
another  for  company  for  years. 

After  his  father  and  I  divorced,  this 
was  intensified.  Tommy  and  I  shared  the 
good  times  and  the  bad.  We  both  had  to 
work  to  keep  things  going.  It  gave  Tommy 
a  deep  sense  of  responsibility  at  an  early 
age.  We  both  had  to  make  adjustments 
and  learned  to  be  tolerant  of  each  other. 
We  simply  couldn't  afford  to  squabble  or 
risk  doing  things  that  would  upset  the 
serenity  of  the  home  we'd  made  for  our- 
selves. We  managed  to  stay  happy. 

Now,  it  would  only  be  natural,  in  these 
circumstances,  for  some  women  to  resent 
anything  breaking  up  such  a  fine  arrange- 
ment. But  my  mind  is  very  clear  on  this 
point.  Not  only  won't  I  resent  my  boy 
marrying — I'll  be  thrilled  for  both  him 
and  me.  That  doesn't  mean  I  won't  miss 
the  old  cozy  relationship.  I'll  miss  it,  and 
I'm  sure  Tommy  will,  too. 

But,  if  a  boy  is  to  become  a  real  man, 
he  must  step  out  into  the  world,  choose 
a  wife,  and  start  a  family  of  his  own.  He 
shouldn't  lean  on  his  mother  and  she 
shouldn't  lean  on  him.  I've  always  treas- 
ured my  independence  and  I  think  Tommy 
will  enjoy  that  freedom,  too.  And  the 
same  is  true  of  Tommy's  future  wife, 
whoever  she  may  be — I'm  sure  she'll  love 


me  more  for  wanting  my  son  to  enjoy 
the  privacy  of  her  love  in  their  own  home. 
I've  always  had  a  yearning  to  travel. 
After  Tommy  is  twenty-one,  I  hope  to  be 
able  to  do  this.  Then  I'd  like  to  go  back 
to  Houston  and  Greenwood  for  a  while, 
to  see  old  friends  and  revisit  the  old 
well-loved  and  well-remembered  places. 
Hollywood  is  a  fascinating  city,  and,  of 
course,  I  will  be  eternally  grateful  to  it 
for  the  way  it  has  opened  its  heart  to  my 
son.  I  find  life  here  somewhat  hectic,  but, 
for  the  next  couple  of  years,  I'll  stick 
around — if  only  to  act  as  an  alarm  clock. 
Tommy  is  a  sound  sleeper  and  needs  a 
good  hard  shake  to  get  him  up. 

1  said  Tommy  might  marry  early.  Not 
that  he  doesn't  like  adventure,  but  I  think 
he  likes  security  even  better.  If  he  does 
marry  young,  I'm  banking  on  his  character. 
It  made  him  a  good  son;  it  will  make  him 
a  good  husband  and  father. 

Because  of  his  hit  record,  "Teen-Age 
Crush,"  which  sold  over  a  million  copies, 
and  the  quality  of  his  new  album,  "Steady 
Date,"  many  of  his  fans  (I  hear  thousands 
of  fan  clubs  are  springing  up  all  over) 
think  of  Tommy  primarily  as  a  singer. 
There  are  also  lots  of  fans  who  know  of 
his  background  as  a  deejay,  and  think  he 
will  turn  out  to  be  the  pilot  of  a  popular 
variety  show,  on  the  order  of  Ernie  Ford, 
Garry  Moore,  Bob  Crosby — or,  perhaps, 
even  Steve  Allen,  Sullivan  or  Godfrey.  It 
would  be  grand  if  such  a  thing  did  happen. 

But  my  own  opinion  is  that  Tommy's 
best  love  is  serious  acting.  Singing  and 
entertaining  is  a  second  choice.  This  has 
been  true  since  he  did  a  series  of  sketches 
on  TV  in  Chicago  called  Lady  Of  The 
Mountain.  He  had  a  small  opportunity 
for  acting  and,  when  the  series  ended,  he 
felt  let  down.  But  he  returned  to  singing 
as  a  means  of  earning  his  living  until  an- 
other opportunity  came  his  way.  This 
happened  in  Houston  when  he  was  twelve. 
He  got  his  wish  and  appeared  with  the 
Alley  Theater's  production  of  David  West- 
heimer's  "Magic  Fallacy." 

It  had  a  fine  run.  After  opening  night, 
Tommy  told  me,  "Mama,  I'm  crazy  about 
entertaining — singing,  guitar  playing,  kid- 
ding around,  ad  libbing.  All  that's  great 
fun  and  it  pays  well.  But  there's  nothing 
to  compare  with  acting.  I  can't  tell  you 
what  a  thrill  it  is  to  really  get  into  a  part, 
really  feel  it,"  he  glowed,  "and  know  it  is 
going  across  the  footlights  to  the  folks 
out  there,  making  them  laugh  or  cry. 
Acting's  going  to  be  my  fife,  Mama." 

One  of  the  greatest  moments  in  both 
our  fives  was  his  homecoming  after  his 
first  national  triumph — the  Kraft  TV 
Theater  production  of  "The  Singin'  Idol." 
The  response  had  been  immediate  and 
terrific.  We  fell  into  each  other's  arms 
and  cried  like  children.  We  both  knew 
what  it  meant  for  him,  aside  from  success. 
It  had  proved  he  was  an  actor.  A  new 
highway  was  opening  up  for  him.  "The 
only  thing  lacking  was  you,  Mama,"  he 
said.  "Next  trip  to  New  York,  you  must 
come  along." 

"You  know  I  don't  like  to  do  that,"  I 
protested.  "Your  career  is  your  own  busi- 
ness and  I've  never  interfered  or  pushed 
into  the  front  row.  Besides,  why  do  you 
need  me  there?" 

His  grin  turned  mischievous  and  he 
said,  "Because  someone's  got  to  wake  me 
up  in  the  morning." 

Well,  I  don't  mind  admitting,  I  like 
Tommy  Sands,  and,  in  a  sneaky  sort  of 
way,  I  even  like  being  just  "Tommy's 
mother."  He's  a  long  trip  from  being  per- 
fect. But  he's  a  nice  boy  with  a  serious 
purpose  in  life.  He  may  not  be  another 
Caruso,  but  he  certainly  is  a  gifted  young 
actor  with  his  own  special  knack  for  put- 
ting over  a  song. 

And  let's  face  it — after  all,  he  is  my  boy! 


New!  Clearasil  Medication 

STARVES 
PIMPLES 

SKIN-COLORED. ..hWespimp/eswhi/eifworks 


■]f- 


At  last !  A  new-type  greaseless  medication 
especially  for  pimples  that  really  works  ...  as 
proved  in  skin  specialists'  tests  on  202  patients. 
9  out  of  every  10  cases  were  completely  cleared 
up  or  definitely  improved  while  using  clearasil. 

3  MEDICAL  ACTIONS  WORK  FAST 

1 .  PENETRATES  PIMPLES  .  .  .  kera- 
toly tic  action  softens  and  dissolves 
affected  skin  tissue  .  .  .  permits 
medication  to  penetrate  down  into 
any  infected  area. 

2.  ISOLATES  PIMPLES  . . .  antiseptic 
action  of  this  new-type  medication 
stops  growth  of  bacteria  that  can 
cause  and  spread  pimples. 

3.  'STARVES1  PIMPLES  .  .  .  CLEAR- 
asil's  famous  dry-up  action 
'starves'  pimples  because  it  helps 
to  remove  the  oils  that  pimples 
'feed'  on. 


ft    u! 


FLOATS  OUT  BLACKHEADS  too,  with  normal 
-washing!  clearasil  will  work  for  you,  as  in  doctors' 
tests,  or  money  back.  Get  clearasil  today,  only  694 
at  all  drug  counters   (economy  size  9St) . 


Largest-Selling  Pimple 
Medication  in  America  (including  Canada) 

Rip  Van  Winkle 
Couldn't  Sleep  with 
Nagging  Backache 

Now  !  You  can  get  the  fast  relief  you  need  from 
nagging  backache,  headache  and  muscular  aches 
and  pains  that  often  cause  restless  nights  and  mis- 
erable tired-out  feelings.  When  these  discomforts 
come  on  with  over-exertion  or  stress  and  strain  — 
you  want  relief— want  it  fast !  Another  disturbance 
may  be  mild  bladder  irritation  following  wrong 
food  and  drink  — often  setting  up  a  restless  un- 
comfortable feeling. 

For  quick  relief  get  Doan's  Pills.  They  work  fast 
in  3  separate  ways :  1.  by  speedy  pain-relieving  ac- 
tion to  ease  torment  of  nagging  backache,  head- 
aches, muscular  aches  and  pains.  2v  by  their  sooth- 
ing effect  on  bladder  irritation.  3.  by  their  mild  _ 
diuretic  action  tending  to  increase  output  of  the  15  ' 
miles  of  kidney  tubes. 

Find  out  how  quickly  this  3-way  medicine  goes  to        R 
work.  Enjoy  a  good  night's  sleep  and  the  same  happy 
relief  millions  have  for  over  60  years.  Ask  for  new, 
large  size  and  save  money.  Get  Doan's  Pills  today  I 

81 


FRECKLES 


Do  freckles  prevent  you 

from    being    beautiful? 

Start    using    Stillman's 

Freckle    Cream    today. 

It   gently   lightens   and 

leaves  the  skin  smooth, 

soft  and  clearer.     It  is 

more    than    a    freckle 

cream.      Thousands  of 

girls,   women  and  men 

all  over  the  world  have  used  it  for  years. 

A  good  complexion  always  adds  a  charm  to 

your  personality. 

Write  for  free  "Time  for  Beauty,"  the  new 
booklet  with  many  beauty  suggestions. 

THE  STILLMAN  CO. 

DEPT.  84,  AURORA,  ILLINOIS 


500  Z  Child*  Photo 


Yes,  up  to  $500  and  more  PAID  if  used  for 
TV,  Calendar  or  Magazine  Ads.  YOUR  CHILD 
has  same  opportunity.  Send  ONE  small  photo 
for  approval.  Print  child's  and  mother's  name 
and  address  on  back.  Returned  in  2  weeks 
with  report.  (Ages  6  mo.  to  18  yrs.) 

NO  OBLIGATION.  (Established  1946) 
HOLLYWOOD  SPOTLITE.  Dept.  AH 
8346   Beverly  Blvd.,    Hollywood.   Calif. 


SHORTHAND 


Famous  SPEEDWRITING  shorthand.  120 
words  per  minute.  No  symbols,  no 
machines:  uses  ABC's.  Easiest  to 
learn,  write  and  transcribe.  Low  cost. 
Over  350,000  graduates.  For  business 
and  Civil  Service.  Typing  available. 
34th  year.   Write  for  FREE  booklet  to:  ©  1957 


82 


,1  Dept.  308-7, 55  W.42  St., New  York  36  ® 

Callouses 

Pain,  Tenderness,  Burn-  J 

ing  Are  Quickly  Relieved  I 

You'll  quickly  forget  you  have  !'■ 

painful   callouses,   burning   or  \ 

tenderness  on  the  bottom  of  v 

your  feet,  when  you  apply  Dr.  tfc 

Scholl's  Zino-pads.  Thin,  soft,  t| 

wonderfully  soothing,  cushion-  m 
ing,  protective.  Separate  MedU        fc 
cations  included  for  quickly  re- 
moving callouses,  Try  them!        V 


D- Scholl's  lino-pads 


SHEETS,  TOASTERS, 
TOWELS,  MIXERS,etc 
GIVEN  TO  YOU  FREE! 

Thousands  of  famous  prod- 
ucts to  choose  from  — furni- 
ture, fashions,  silverware, 
china,  draperies,  etc.  You 
get  $50.00  and  more  in 
merchandise  just  by  being 
Secretary  of  a  Popular  Club 
you  help  your  friends  form. 
It's  easy!  It's  fun!  Nothing 
to  sell,  nothing  to  buy.  Write 
today:  Popular  Club  Plan, 
Dept.  L931.Lynbrook,N.Y. 

j  Popular  Club  Plan.  Dept.  L931.  Lynbrook,  N.Y.  | 
j  Send  Big  FREE  276-Page  FULL-COLOR  Catalog  j 

•  Name I 

•  Address „  | 


City.. 


Are  We  Afraid  of  Our  Teen- Age  Kids? 


(Continued  from  page  30) 
crowded  quarters  of  a  Brooklyn  tenement, 
humorist  (and  humanitarian)  Levenson 
knows,  from  close  and  intimate  contact 
with  kids,  how  it  is  with  them,  what  they 
want,  what  they  need  and  do  not  need, 
what  makes  them  tick.  As  a  teacher  in 
New  York  high  schools  for  ten  years,  he 
has  the  understanding  which  only  such  an 
experience  can  give  of  teen-age — and  par- 
ent— problems.  As  the  father  of  a  four- 
teen-year-old son  and  a  four-year-old 
daughter,  he  also  has  an  understanding 
of  the  relationship — more  delicate  and  diffi- 
cult than  any  other — between  parent  and 
child. 

And  he  has  compassion.  Compassion  for 
the  teen-age  children  we  call  "delinquent." 
Compassion  for  the  parents,  who  are  afraid 
of  them.  .  .  . 

"We  are  afraid  of  them,"  Sam  says,  "be- 
cause these  kids  are  organized,  the  parents 
are  not.  Parents  have  no  union.  The  kids 
have.  You  say  to  your  teen-age  son,  'I 
do  not  want  that  you  should  go  to  the 
movies  on  Sunday.'  And  you  are  told, 
'Louie's  father  lets  him  go,  and  Jakie's 
and  Frankie's' — and  so  on  down  a  list  as 
long  as  the  letters  of  the  alphabet.  You 
tell  your  teen-age  daughter,  You  are  too 
young  to  smoke.'  And  she  tells  you, 
'Sadie  does  it,  and  Frieda  and  Ruth  and 
Naomi.  .  .  .'  Teenagers  come  to  you  in  a 
group,  as  it  were,  and  say  to  you,  'Look, 
this  is  what  we  want  to  do.'  They  are 
members  of  a  union  thousands  strong.  We 
the  parents,  a  father  and  mother,  are  two 
alone.  Under  pressure  of  this  organized 
resistance  to  parental  discipline,  the  par- 
ent— outnumbered — gives  in. 

"The  records  released  these  days  have 
an  influence  on  teenagers.  Their  favorite 
recording  stars  influence  their  choice  of 
clothes  and  accessories — Elvis  Presley  hats 
and  slave  bracelets,  shirts  and  ties.  To 
some,  the  recordings  also  sell  the  idea 
that  their  parents  do  not  understand  them. 
Take  the  lyrics  of  one  of  the  currently 
popular  songs — 'only  a  teen-age  crush,'  it 
goes,  or  something  like  that.  'Only  a  teen- 
age crush'  is,  presumably,  the  opinion  of 
the  poor  schnook  of  a  parent  .  .  .  whereas 
we,  the  implication  follows,  know  better. 
And  who  is  "We"?  "We"  is  the  record 
industry,  which,  as  an  indirect  result  of 
releasing  such  records — encourages  these 
kids  (the  greatest  record-buying  group  in 
the  world)  to  believe  that  only  such  re- 
cording artists  as,  say,  Presley,  Tommy 
Sands,  Pat  Boone,  can  give  them  the  sym- 
pathy and  understanding  and  emotional 
release  they  do  not  get,  cannot  get — don't 
be  silly — at  home. 

"Psychiatrists  are  also  guilty  of  bring- 
ing on  this  permissiveness,  or  lack  of  dis- 
cipline, on  the  part  of  the  parent,"  Sam 
continues.  "Let  the  child  be  free,  let  him 
express  himself,  do  what  he  wants  to  do, 
don't  frustrate  him,  make  him  happy, 
keep  him  happy,  because  if  you  don't  .  .  .  .' 
And  the  parents — terrified  by  the  implied 
threat  to  the  child  who  is  not  kept  happy 
by  being  allowed  to  do  what  he  wants  to 
do — let  him  do  what  he  wants  to  do.  This 
is  chaos,  this  is  nothing,  this  is  not  free- 
dom— which  only  comes  through  discipline. 
This  is  anarchy  which  can  lead  to  a  big 
fat  zero. 

"I've  taught  my  son,  and  I'm  teaching  my 
daughter,"  says  Sam,  "that  I  don't  have  to 
make  them  happy.  That's  not  my  respon- 
sibility. I  have  to  make  them  good  re- 
sponsible citizens — and,  if  they  are,  hap- 
piness will  come. 

"How  do  you  go  about  the  business 
of  making  them  good  responsible  citizens? 
By  imposing  rules — children  need  rules 
like  they  need  vitamins  and  sunshine — 
and  by  having  the  guts  to  enforce  them. 


By  not  being  afraid  to  precipitate  a  'scene.' 
As  parents  know,"  Sam  laughs,  "everything 
precipitates  a  scene.  The  allowance  you 
give  them  is  not  enough,  the  car  they're 
not  allowed  to  drive — so  we  have  the 
scene.  We  raise  our  voices,  my  son  Con- 
rad and  I.  He  slams  doors,  I  slam  doors. 
My  children  don't  have  to  love  me  every 
minute — the  minute  they  dislike  me  may 
be  the  one  that  will  pay  off.  In  the  crisis 
between  children  and  parents,  better  the 
children  should  cry — remember  this — than 
the  parents.  Better  the  scene  in  the  home 
than  in  a  courtroom,  which  spells  disaster. 
'Better  to  look  at  me,'  my  father  used  to 
say,  'than  at  a  judge.'  If  your  child  has 
never  been  really  angry  at  you,  you  have 
never  been  a  parent.  You  have  not  taught 
him  to  recognize — and  submit  to — au- 
thority. 

"Who  is  authority?  It  is  the  answer  to 
this  question  which  the  so-called  'juvenile 
delinquents'  have  not  got.  We,  the  parents, 
have  to  give  it  to  them — as,  in  our  home, 
it  was  given  my  sister  and  brothers  and 
me.  Rich  in  ceremonial  tradition,  the 
candles  on  the  table,  the  Jewish  holidays 
kept,  God  lived  in  our  house.  He  did.  There 
was  no  question  of  it.  Because  He  is  the 
Supreme  Being,  God,  we  knew,  is  the 
Supreme  Authority.  No  question  but  what 
parents — who  are  put  here  by  God  to 
protect  us  and  to  teach  us — are  given 
authority  by  God  and  must  be  obeyed. 
Parents  were  once  children.  They  have 
lived  once.    They  know. 

"Any  delinquency,  however  slight,  on 
the  part  of  any  one  of  us,"  Sam  laughs, 
"and  its  consequences  were  carried  to  the 
ultimate!  Smoking  a  cigarette,  when  we 
were  thought  too  young  to  smoke,  must 
lead  to  Sing  Sing,  to  the  death  house.  If 
he  was  fresh  to  a  teacher,  Jovian  bolts 
were  let  loose  at  the  culprit's  head.  'You 
don't  appreciate  America,'  my  father  would 
thunder.  'The  Government  pays  teachers 
to  educate  you.  You  are  not  grateful. 
You  are  not  a  good  American.  You  are 
subversive!' 

"In  the  eyes  of  our  parents,  the  teacher 
was  always  right — whether  she  was  right 
or  wrong.  Nowadays,  you  hear  it  said 
that  a  teacher  is  'a  schnook  who  couldn't 
make  good  in  business.'  I  have  heard 
parents  say  of  a  teacher,  who  punished  a 
child  deserving  of  punishment,  "That 
crackpot!'  This  is  teaching  respect  for 
authority? 

"Nowadays,  we're  told  that  giving  a 
child  an  allowance  teaches  him  the  value 
of  money.  When  the  eight  of  us  were 
kids,"  Sam  recalls,  "we  knew  the  value 
of  money  before  we  knew  how  to  walk. 
With  us,  it  was  real  value.  For  a  penny, 
we  got  a  paraffin  whistle.  We  blew  on  it 
all  week — and,  on  Sunday,  we  ate  it. 
Today's  child  can't  get  by  on  less  than 
several  dollars  for  a  show  and  after-show 
snack,  and  you're  lucky  if  you're  not  also 
billed  for  a  taxicab  fare. 

"  'You  want  the  good  things  in  life,'  my 
father  used  to  say,  'you  work  for  them. 
If  you  can't  make  good  here  in  America, 
you're  no  damn  good.'  So  we  worked  in 
sweatshops,  anything  to  make  a  dollar.  My 
brother,  now  a  doctor,  worked  in  a  post 
office  nights  and  studied  medicine  all  day. 
Another  brother,  a  lawyer,  got  his  shingle 
by  sweating  for  it.  I  went  through  col- 
lege on  the  two  hundred  dollars  I  earned 
summers,  giving  monologues. 

"You  hear  it  said  that  most  of  the  teen- 
age trouble-makers  are  underprivileged 
kids  who  come  from  'wretched  tenements' 
in  which  they  are  unhappy,  against  which 
they  rebel.  I  don't  believe  that  physical 
environment  in  itself  makes  for  unhappi- 
ness — or  for  happiness.  I  don't  believe 
it's  the  tenement  that's  'wretched,'  but  the 


I 


itl 

>!3. 


parents.  It's  not  the  cracks  in  the  walls 
that  split  the  personalities  of  these  kids, 
but  the  cracks  in  the  parents.  You  give 
me  two  loving,  devoted  parents,  and  a 
child  never  feels  underprivileged.  You 
give  me  two  wise  parents  with  the  guts 
to  say  'no,'  and  the  child — whether  from  a 
Hester  Street  slum  or  a  Park  Avenue 
penthouse — has  a  better  than  even  chance 
of  making  good  and  of  being  good. 

''Nobody  in  the  world  is  going  to  be  as 
kind  and  indulgent  to  a  kid  as  a  kind  and 
indulgent  parent  is,"  Sam  emphasizes,  "so 
why  give  him  a  false  notion  of  what  the 
world  is?  Why  not  teach  him  that  noth- 
ing is  easy?  Why  not  open  his  eyes  to 
the  fact  that  nobody  is  going  to  assume 
his  responsibilities  and  forgive  him  his 
sins? 

"You  have  to  begin  early.  When  our 
little  Emily  calls  down  to  us,  'Come  up  and 
dress  me,  I  can't  dress  myself!' — I  call  back, 
'Stay  in  your  room  until  you  are  dressed!' 
Sure,  the  left  shoe  is  on  the  right  foot, 
when  she  comes  down,  but  you  never 
saw  such  a  happy  kid  in  your  life,  such 
pride  that  shines.  I  make  her  pick  up 
her  toys.  Make  her  do  it.  Who,  perhaps, 
will  do  her  picking  up  for  her  when  she 
is  thirty? 

"My  boy  wants  to  be  independent.  Soon 
now,  he  is  going  to  Miami  to  visit  his 
maternal  grandparents.  'Look,  my  son,' 
I  have  told  him,  'this  is  the  first  time  on 
your  own.  I  am  giving  you  money.  I 
want  you  to  account  to  me  for  every  cent 
you  spend;  whom  you  tipped  and  how 
much,  how  much  you  spent  for  each  meal. 
Then  you  will  prove  to  me  that  you  can  be 
trusted  with  money,  with  which  we  must 
always  be  trustworthy.  Be  respectful  to 
people,'  I  told  him.  'To  the  porter  on  your 
car,  to  the  steward  in  the  dining-car,  to 
your  fellow  passengers,  to  your  grandma 
and  grandpa.' 

"You  can't  repeat  the  maxims  of  mor- 
ality too  often,"  Sam  believes.  "In  teach- 
ing, repetition  is  the  necessary  thing. 
You  must  treat  older  people  with  re- 
spect. You  must  treat  money  with  re- 
spect.' Say  these  things  to  them  over  and 
over,  then  over  again.  Urge  them.  Urge 
them. 

"My  son's  allowance  is  a  dollar  a  week. 
He  'can't  get  along  on  that.'  'So  you  must 
earn,'  I  tell  him.  Now,  once  a  week,  he 
washes  my  car.  On  Saturday  nights,  he 
tapes  my  TV  show,  labels  it  and  puts  it  on 
the  shelf.  So  he  earns  a  dollar  a  week  to 
add  to  the  one  that  is  given  him. 

"A  thing  I'm  strong  on — I  like  children 
working.  A  job  is  one  of  the  greatest 
therapies  in  the  world.  Summertimes,  any 
time  they  have  off,  let  the  kids  work. 
Don't  shelter  them  from  work.  Work  is 
dignified.  Work  is  good.  Let  them  work 
in  gas  stations,  sell  papers,  sell  ice,  dig 
ditches.  I  am  glad,  when  I  see  my  son's 
hands  dirty  from  work. 

"Homework,"  Sam  adds,  "is  not  taken 
for  granted  in  our  house.  'What  is  your 
homework?'  I  ask.  'Have  you  any  prob- 
lems?' If  I  feel  Conrad  isn't  reading 
enough,  I  tell  him,  'Watch  all  the  TV  you 
want,  but  make  your  time  to  read.' 

"By  the  way,"  Sam  laughs,  "I  am  not 
inclined  to  believe  that  the  Presley  craze, 
which  agitates  many  parents,  does  teen- 
agers of  either  sex  any  real  harm.  It  will 
leave  no  wound.  What  it  does  do,  how- 
ever, is  waste  their  time  by  taking  them 
away  from  the  better  things  in  life,  such 
as  reading  and  outdoor  activities  and  de- 


Watch  for 

September  TV  RADIO  MIRROR 

on  sole  August  6 


veloping   the   talents   that   are   their   own. 

"I  insisted  that  my  son  play  a  musical 
instrument.  'Music,'  I  told  him,  'is  some- 
thing you  live  with  all  your  life.'  We 
tried  him  on  three  instruments  without 
success.  The  fourth  instrument,  the  guitar, 
he  took  to  and  gets  great  pleasure  from. 
'Don't  force  the  child,'  you  are  told.  Don't 
force  him,  and  you've  got  an  unforced  idiot. 
You  have  got  to  discover  the  ability  of  the 
child  or  help  him  to  discover  it. 

"I  don't  mind  hounding  my  son.  I  don't 
mind  getting  angry.  Kids  must  know  that 
people  get  angry  in  this  world.  If  my  son 
looks  sloppy,  he  hears  about  it.  I  was  the 
first  one  to  take  a  stand  against  teenagers 
wearing  beat-up  old  blue  jeans  and 
grubby  shoes  to  school.  I  mentioned  it  on 
TV,  wrote  about  it  in  the  newspaper. 
What  is  this,  I  said — of  a  group  of  teen- 
agers at  their  desks — a  hike  or  a  school- 
room? The  way  they  look,  I  said,  they'll 
break  windows  next.  Boys  should  wear 
ties  and  clean  shirts  and  shined  shoes  to 
school,  with  their  hair  brushed,  their 
fingernails  clean.  This  is  self-respect,  as 
well  as  respect  for  the  teacher.  This  isn't 
fashionable?  What  is  fashionable  about 
dirt? 

"Recently,  I  visited  a  high  school  in  Bay- 
side,  Long  Island,  and  there  saw  the  best 
behaved  group  I  have  seen  in  my  later 
life.  When  the  principal  entered  the  room, 
the  class  stood  up.  When  they  sang  the 
national  anthem,  they  knew  the  words. 
Too  many  school  children  are  indifferent 
when  they  sing  the  national  anthem.  They 
fumble  the  words.  Too  often,  also,  when 
the  bell  rings  for  recess,  the  kids  don't 
wait  for  the  teacher  to  dismiss  them — such 
is  the  stampede,  you'd  think  a  fire  had 
broken  out!  This  class  waited  until  the 
teacher  dismissed  them,  before  they  left 
the  room.  I  saw  them  pay  this  respect 
and  it  was  a  delight  to  see.  These  may 
seem  to  be  trivial  things,  but  the  total 
effect  on  the  teen-age  boy  and  girl  is  the 
exact  opposite  of  the  word  trivial. 

"I  do  not  believe  in  teen-age  kids  leav- 
ing the  school  premises  during  the  lunch 
hour.  I  have  forbidden  my  son  to  do  so. 
T  have  seen  some  of  the  kids  that  hang 
around  the  candy  store  in  the  neighbor- 
hood,' I  told  him,  'and  they  look  like 
the  type  that  will  not  do  you  any  good.' 
To  this,  there  was  so  much  heated  protest 
— 'Louie  goes  off  the  premises,  and  Jakie, 
and  Izzy,'  and  on  through  the  alphabet 
again — that  I  went  down  to  discuss  the 
matter  with  the  school  principal.  'I  am 
glad  you  ask  about  this,'  the  principal  said. 
'I  wish  more  parents  would  come  down  and 
do  the  same.  Only  recently,  a  man  was 
caught  selling  dope  to  some  of  the  kids  in 
the  candy  store.'  My  kid  is  no  smarter 
than  anyone  else.  But,  when  he  came  in- 
to the  principal's  office  and  was  told  what 
I  had  just  been  told,  he  got  smart.  He 
hasn't  asked  to  leave  the  premises  again. 

"He  can't  just  disappear  after  school, 
either,"  Sam  adds.  "If  you  are  detained 
anywhere,  you  must  call  the  home,"  he  is 
told  "and  tell  where  you  are."  We  are  old- 
fashioned,  my  wife  and  I.  When  the  boy 
is  going  out  of  a  Saturday  or  Sunday, 
Where  are  you  going,  we  want  to  know, 
when  will  you  be  back?  And  I  am  not  too 
proud  to  go  and  see  for  myself  whether 
or  not  he  is  where  he  has  said  he  will  be. 

"You  know  what  my  mother's  attitude 
was  toward  raising  children?  She  used  to 
say  to  my  father,  'Go  outside  and  see  what 
Sammy's  doing  and  tell  him  to  stop.'  It 
has  been  handed  down  to  me,  this  attitude. 
Don't  trust  your  kids  too  much.  Kids  will 
lie.  And  the  faster  you  call  a  he  a  lie,  the 
better  for  the  kids.  Besides,  you  don't 
know  who's  been  working  on  them  dur- 
ing the  afternoon. 

"I  don't  believe  in  trusting  a  party  of 
teenagers  alone,"  says  Sam.     "I  believe  in 


PERMANENT  DARKENER  &X 
FOR  LASHES  AND  BROWS  Ztd 

•  NOT  AN  ANAL1NE  0YEI 

•  I  APPLICATION  LASTS  4  to  5  WEEKS! 

Takes  jusf  seconds  to  apply ...  stays  on  4  to 
5  weeksl  "Dark-Eyes"  is  the  perfect  way  to 
make  eyelashes  and  brows  completely  natural 
looking  ...and  it  will  not  harden  or  break 
theml  "Dark-Eyes"  is  NOT  A  MASCARAI 
Will  jiot   stick  to  eyelash   curler.    Eliminates 

the    bother   of   daily   eye    make-up. 

It  is  PERMANENT,  SWIMPROOF, 

SMUDGEPROOF,  TEARPROOF,  and 

SMEARPROOFI 

$1.25  (plus  tax)  at  leading  drug, 
dept.  and  variety  chain  stores. 


StND  TODAY 

for 

TRIAL  SIZi 

NO  DELAY — 
your  trial  order 
shipped  in  24 
hours!  ^ 

"DARK-EYES"  COMPANY,  Dept.   P-87 
3319  W.  Carroll  Ave.,  Chicago  24,  III. 

I  enclose  25c  (coin  or  stamps— tax  included)  for 
TRIAL  SIZE  pkg.  of  "Dark-Eyes"  with  directions. 

check  shade:  □  light  Brown  Q  Brown  Q  Black 


!        Nnme 

• 

s»nfo                     : 

"""SBB  PSORIASIS 

(SCALY    SKIN    TROUBLE) 

DGRmOIL 


TRY  IT  YOURSELF  no 

matter  how  long  you  have 

suffered.  Write  for  FREE 

book  on  Psoriasis  and 

DERMOIL.  Send  lOc 

for  trial  bottle  to  make 

our  "One  Spot  Test". 


ti$t 


BBS* 


&° 


»<*" 


Setu/jfvr 

.GENEROUS 

TRIAL 


Don't  be  embarrassed 
with  Psoriasis,  the  ugly, 
scaly  skin  disease.  TRY 
dermoil.  Amazing  re- 
sults reported  by  many 
grateful  users  for  24 
years.  With  DERMOIL  it 

is  possible  that  ugly  scaly  patches  - 

on  body  or  scalp  may  be  gradually  removed  and  the  an- 
noying itching  relieved,  while  the  skin  becomes  pliable 
and  soft  as  the  redness  is  reduced.  Many  doctors  use  the 
non-staining  Dermoil  formula.  Must  give  definite  benefit 
or  money  back.  Sold  by  leading  Drug  stores. 
Write  today  LAKE  LABORATORIES,  Dept.  3404 
Box  3925.  Strathmoor  Station,  Detroit  2  7,  Mich. 


Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 
New  Way  Without  Surgery 

Science  Finds  Healing  Substance  That 
Relieves  Pain — Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 

For  the  first  time  science  has  found  a 
new  healing  substance  with  the  astonishing 
ability  to  shrink  hemorrhoids  and  to  relieve 
pain  —  without  surgery.  _    .  _ 

In  case  after  case,  while  gently  relieving 
pain,  actual  reduction  (shrinkage)  took 
place. 

Most  amazing  of  all  —  results  were  so 
thorough  that  sufferers  made  astonishing 
statements  like  "Piles  have  ceased  to  be  a 
problem!" 

The  secret  is  a  new  healing  substance 
(Bio-Dyne*)  — discovery  of  a  world-famous 
research  institute. 

This  substance  is  now  available  in  sup- 
pository or  ointment  form  under  the  name 
Preparation  H*  Ask  for  it  at  all  drug  count- 
ers—money back  guarantee.     *Reg.  TJ.  S.  Pat.  Off. 


83 


y  ^    ^    ^    ^    w 

I       Can't  Get  Rid  of 
[Dark  or  Discolored  Skin, 
.Freckles,  Skin  Spots? 


HERE'S  HELP!  Mercolized  Wax  Cream 
7  NIGHT  PLAN  Lightens, 
Beautifies  Skin  WhileYou  Sleep 

Just  follow  the  famous  Mercolized  Wax 
Cream  7  Night  Plan  to  a  whiter,  smoother, 
lovelier  skin.  Smooth  rich,  luxurious  Mer- 
colized Wax  Cream  on  your  face  or  arms 
just  before  retiring  each  night  for  one  week. 
—  You'll  begin  to  see  results  almost 
at  once  .  .  .  lightens  dark  skin, 
blotches,  spots,  freckles  as  if  by 
magic!  This  is  not  a  cover  up  cos- 
metic; Mercolized  Wax  Cream 
works  UNDER  the  skin  surface. 
Beautiful  women  have  used  this 
time-tested  plan  for  over  40  years  —  you'll 
love  it's  fast,  sure,  longer  lasting  results! 
Mercolized  Wax  Cream  is  sold  on  100%  guar- 
antee or  money  back.    Start  using  it  now! 

MERCOLIZED  WAX  CREAM 

At  All  Drug  and  Cosmetic  Counters 


Lightens  dark 
skin  and  ugly 
spots  almost 

overnight. 


SONG  POEMS  WANTED 

To  be  set  to  music.    Send  your  poems   today  for  free 
examination ! 

J.  CHAS.   McNEIL.   (A.  B.   Master  of  Music) 
510-MG    So.   Alexandria  Los   Angeles   5.    Calif. 


j#»  HIGH  SCHOOLS 


No  classes  to  attend.  Easy  spare-time  train-  I 
ing  covers  big  choice  of  subjects.  Friendly  \ 
instructors;  standard  texts.  Full  credit  for\ 
previous  schooling.     Diploma  awarded. \ 
Write  now  for  FREE  catalog  H  H  -49 

WAYNE   SCHOOL  utiiit°5vinst.) 

2527  Sheffield  Ave.,  Chicago  14,  Illinois y 


HOW  TO  MAKE  MONEY! 

Write  today  for  FREE  plan  which  shows 
how  to  make  big  money  in  your  spare 
time.  All  you  do  is  help  us  take  orders 
for  magazine  subscriptions.  No  experience 
needed.  Send  name  and  address  on  a 
postal.   There  is  no   obligation. 

MACFADDEN   PUBLICATIONS 
205    EAST   42nd    STREET.    NEW   YORK    17.    N.    Y. 


(''".■/>/,,„ 


Cushion  Tip 


i 


125 


WORLD'S 

SMOOTHEST  BOBBY  PIN" 

Give  your  hair  the  sophisticated  look  by  using  Sta-Ritc 
Cushion  Tip  . . .  the  bobby  pin  that  won't  pull  on  the 
hair  or  hurt  the  head.  Sold  at  all  beauty  aid  counters. 
Send  10c  lor  hair  styling  charts  . .  .  authentic  techniques 
of  famous  hair  stylists. 


STA-RITE  Ginnie  Lou,  Inc. 


Shelbyville,  Illinois 


Sv*v 


84 


ENLARGEMENT 

OF  YOUR  FAVORITE  PHOTO  OR  NEGATIVE 

Just  to  get  acquainted  we  will 
make  you  a  FREE  professional  silk 
finish  5x7  enlargement  of  your 
favorite  photo  or  negative.  Please 
include  color  of  hair,  eyes  and 
clothing  for  prompt  information 
on  our  bargain  offer  for  having 
your  enlargement  beautifully  hand 
colored  in  oil  and  mounted  in  a 
handsome  frame.  Please  enclose  25<t  for  handling 
and  mailing.  Limit  2.  If  you  do  not  wish  your  en- 
largement hand  colored  a  black  and  white  enlarge- 
ment will  be  mailed  with  your  original.  We  ivill  pay 
$100  for  a  photo  selected  bi-monthly  to  be  used  in 
our  advertising.  Offer  is  limited  to  U.S.A.  only. 
Send  your  favorite  photos  or  negatives  today! 
HOLLYWOOD  FILM  STUDIOS,  Dept.  E-12 
7021     Santa    Monica     Blvd.,    Hollywood    38,    Calif. 


supervision.  'You  don't  trust  me!'  the 
teenager  cries,  outraged.  To  which  the 
answer  is:  'I  don't  know  the  other  kids.' 
Parents  have  fallen  for  this  'Don't  intrude' 
philosophy  propagated  by  the  teenagers. 
So  they  go  away,  leaving  a  party  of  teen- 
agers in  a  house  with  cigarettes,  liquor, 
couches,  bedrooms.  You  do  this — you're 
asking  for  it! 

"We  have  to  have  restrictions.  We're  all 
sinners.  Because  we  are,  we,  as  parents, 
have  to  impose  restrictions  and  see  to  it 
that  they  are  kept.  Eternal  vigilance 
should  be  the  parents'  watchword.  You 
cannot  trust  to  chance. 

"I  don't  believe  in  boys  of  sixteen  hav- 
ing cars  of  their  own.  When  they  have, 
how  do  you  ever  know  where  they  are? 
I  have  heard  my  son  tell  his  friends,  'My 
father  says  I  can't  have  a  car  until  I'm 
twenty-one.'  I  may  break  down  a  little 
sooner  than  that,"  Sam  smiles,  "but  very 
little. 

"I  don't  believe  in  twelve-year-old  girls 
wearing  lipsticks — or  falsies.  I  was  re- 
cently shocked  to  learn  that  a  lot  of  parents 
buy  falsies  for  little  girls  of  twelve — 'be- 
cause they  don't  look  well  enough  to  go 
out  otherwise.' 

"I  don't  believe,  I  definitely  do  not  be- 
lieve," Sam  stresses,  "in  teenagers  going 
steady.  I  believe  parents  should  have  the 
guts  to  tell  their  teen-age  girls  and  boys, 
'You  can't  go  steady.'  When  explaining  to 
teenagers  why  they  can't  go  steady,  par- 
ents should  use  the  words  'virginity'  and 
'pregnancy,'  and  not  be  afraid  of  them. 
They  should  drum  into  the  ear  of  the  teen- 
age girl  that  the  boy  who  takes  advantage 
of  her  isn't  going  to  marry  her.  He  isn't. 
He  is  still  looking  for  a  virgin. 

"Going  steady  is  a  natural  thing,  but 
that  doesn't  make  it  good.  Mating  is  a 
natural  thing,  too,  but  there  are  conse- 
quences. We  are  a  civilized  people.  There 
are  taboos. 

"Apart  from  the  fact  that  kids  who  go 
steady  neglect  their  school  work,  can't 
concentrate  on  their  school  work,  the 
emotional  upheaval  caused  by  going 
steady  is  very  taxing  on  a  kid — particularly 
a  girl — very  taxing.  Petting  today,  parents 
must  realize,  is  not  what  it  was  thirty 
years  ago.  To  use  a  little  slogan  I  created 
for  myself,  'Dating  is  getting  confused 
with  mating.'  And  the  longer  a  boy  and 
girl  go  steady,  isolate  themselves  from 
the   group,   the   greater  the   curiosity,   the 


opportunity — and  the  temptation.  And  the 
more  serious  the  girl  gets,  the  bigger  the 
flop  she's  going  to  take,  the  deeper  the 
bruise  she's  going  to  get.  It's  a  danger- 
ous business.  Statistics  prove  that  a  prosti- 
tute is  one  who  got  smacked  down  early  in 
life — and  from  that  time  on,  has  thought 
of  love  as  something  cheap  enough  to  sell. 
The  kids  who  go  steady  run  the  risk  of 
getting  hurt  bad.     That's  the  danger. 

"So  what  can  we  do?  We  can  encourage 
group  activities,"  Sam  answers  himself. 
"The  church  should  use  every  facility  for 
getting  groups  of  teenagers  together.  At 
home,  there  should  always  be  an  extra 
place  or  two  at  the  table,  as  there  is  in 
our  home.  Teenagers  must  be  made  to 
feel  that  their  friends  are  welcome.  Above 
all,  we  must  be  honest  with  them.  And 
unafraid.  When  a  teen-age  daughter  tells 
us,  'I  love  him,'  we  can  say,  'Yes,  you 
do — now.'  She  may  insist,  'I  always  will.' 
Then  we  must  tell  her  that  she  is  too 
young  to  say,  'This  is  my  man.'  That  she 
will  be  in  love  and  out  of  love  again  and 
again  and  again.  Repeat  it.  Urge  it.  Urge 
it.  If  we  get  nowhere,  we  may  say,  'Go 
out  with  him  then,  but  go  out  with  others, 
too,  please.'    This  sometimes  works. 

"If  parents  were  organized,  as  the  kids 
are  organized,  if  parents  should  have  a 
union  such  as  the  kids  have,  how  rela- 
tively simple  it  would  be!"  Sam  concludes. 
"If  parents  living  in  the  same  neighbor- 
hood, parents  whose  children  go  to  the 
same  school,  would  agree  on  how  to 
handle  the  problems  we  have  discussed, 
agree  on  how  many  nights  a  week  the 
kids  are  permitted  to  date,  on  the  hour 
they  must  be  in,  on  the  age  at  which  they 
are  permitted  to  smoke,  to  take  a  cock- 
tail, to  go  steady — if  we  could  come  to 
them  in  a  group  and  say,  'Look,  this  is 
what  we  want  you  to  do' — well,"  Sam 
laughs,  "we  might  get  somewhere.  We 
would  not  be  outnumbered.  The  pressure 
would  be  equalized.  We  would  not  be 
afraid — nor  would  we  have  anything  much 
to  be  afraid  of,  I  dare  say.  Parents  of  teen- 
agers, unite!" 

Off  TV,  as  on,  Sam  Levenson  laughs  as 
he  talks.  He  laughs  as  he  talks  about 
teenagers  and  parents  and  their  problems, 
too.  But,  in  the  laughter,  you  can  hear 
the  heartbeat,  the  deep  concern  of  a  man 
who  cares  about  the  future  of  the  human 
race— and  dares  to  believe  that  some- 
thing  constructive  can  be   done  about  it. 


I  saved  my 
MARRIAGE 

A  spade  is  called  a  spade  on  the  radio  program 
"My  True  Story".  It  brings  you  frank  stories  about 
real  people — about  their  hates  and  fears,  their  loves 
and  passions.  When  you  hear  these  dramatizations, 
you  may  easily  recognize  some  of  the  problems  that 
are  keeping  you  from  finding  happiness.  So  listen  to 
these  emotion-packed  stories.  Each  one  is  taken 
right  from  the  files  of  True  Story  Magazine. 

Tune  in  Every  Morning  to 

"MY  TRUE  STORY" 

American  Broadcasting  Stations 

"Twenty-four  hours  later,  I  had  no  husband,  no  son,  no  faith  in  anything."  Don't 
miss  "Mistake  of  Nature"  in  the  current  issue  of  TRUE  STORY  Magaiine,  now  at 
all  newsstands. 


New  Hot  Singers  of  1957 


(Continued  from  page  49) 
stuff  I  didn't  learn  then,  back  in  Dumas." 

Buddy  Knox,  son  of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Lester 
Knox,  was  born  in  Happy,  Texas,  in  1933, 
and  spent  his  childhood  on  a  ranch.  He 
was  a  star  rodeo  rider  and  had  leads  in 
class  plays.  Like  Jim  and  Don,  he  won 
letters  and  honors  in  football  and  basket- 
ball. 

Dave  Alldred  of  Lubbock,  Texas,  did 
not  —  "They  used  me  for  the  football." 
His  father,  now  dead,  taught  him  to  play 
drums.  "He  rigged  up  his  tom-tom  to  be 
my  first  bass  drum." 

Their  combo  materialized  at  West  Texas 
State  College.  Buddy's  job  in  the  speech 
department  was  helpful.  Nights,  they 
turned  the  whole  building  into  an  echo 
chamber.  Such  experimenting  led  to  their 
hits.  Dave  says,  "My  drum  was  a  paper 
box  stuffed  with  cotton.  We  heard  that 
a  major  record  company  later  put  two 
drummers  to  work  for  a  week  trying  to 
find  how  we  made  that  sound." 

Following  their  Broadway  triumph,  they 
risked  being  one-hit  wonders — for  Buddy, 
who  had  earned  his  second  lieutenant's 
commission  in  R.O.T.C.,  was  called  up  for 
a  six-month  tour  of  duty.  They  met  the 
problem  by  going  into  concentrated  re- 
cording sessions.  "We  cut  enough  plat- 
ters to  last  until  Buddy  gets  back,"  Dave 
explains.  The  Rhythm  Orchids  are  show- 
ing the  vigor  and  strength  of  a  spiny 
Texas  cactus.  They  should  continue  to 
hold  their  own  in  the  galaxy  of  new  stars. 

In  contrast  to  the  Texans — who  came, 
recording-wise,  from  nowhere — Tab  Hun- 
ter came  from  headlines  and  Hollywood, 
an  extremely  slippery  springboard  from 
which  to  launch  a  new  career.  "To  lay  a 
bomb,"  as  they  say  in  music  business, 
would  be  conspicuous  and  dangerous  to 
his  motion-picture  status. 

And  there  were  those  in  Hollywood 
who  would  have  enjoyed  seeing  Tab  flop. 
Irked  with  being  cast  as  the  boy  next 
door,  he  was  becoming  troublesome.  His 
noisy  protests  that  he  could  act,  coupled 
with  a  habit  of  blowing  up  on  set,  had  led 
some  to  call  him  "Mr.  No  Talent."  Tab 
sing?    Heard  any  other  good  jokes  lately? 

But  Randy  Wood,  head  of  Dot  Records, 
who  boosted  his  little  independent  studio 
into  a  multi-million  business  before  merg- 
ing it  with  Paramount,  is  no  man  to  take 
ready-made  opinions.  If  Tab  wanted  to 
cut  wax,  Wood  was  extremely  willing. 

To  anyone  who  has  studied  the  story  of 
25-year-old  Tab  Hunter,  the  resulting  hits 
should  have  been  no  surprise,  for  Tab  has 
always  driven  hard  to  get  what  he  wanted. 
Born  Arthur  Gellen  in  New  York  City,  he 
grew  up  in  Long  Beach,  California.  His 
mother  worked  as  a  physiotherapist  to 
support  her  two  sons.  Tab,  when  in  St. 
John's  Military  Academy,  learned  to  ride. 
(To  pay  for  this  expensive  sport,  he  jerked 
soda,  delivered  parcels,  ushered  in  a 
theater.)    He  won  cups  and  ribbons. 

When  he  got  a  crush  on  Sonja  Henie,  he 
felt  he,  too,  must  skate  well.  Again,  he 
worked  at  odd  jobs  and  won  titles.  When, 
at  15,  he  enlisted  in  the  Coast  Guard  and 
was  stationed  in  Groton,  Connecticut,  he 
turned  champ  weekend  commuter.  His 
objective:  Broadway.  He  saw  all  the 
shows  and  decided  to  be  an  actor. 

The  driving  beat  of  rock  'n'  roll  was 
made  to  order  for  Tab.  His  intensity 
throbbed  through  to  make  his  version  of 
"Young  Love"  a  topper.  Scoffers  were 
willing  to  concede  him  a  freak  hit.  Tab 
answered  with  "Ninety-Nine  Ways."  For 
a  time,  both  were  high  in  the  charts. 

Hollywood  paid  him  the  compliment  of 
envy  and  imitation.    Variety  reported  he 


had  started  a  new  trend,  and  noted,  "Cur- 
rent disc  market  is  apparently  wide  open 
for  names  not  primarily  known  as  singers." 
"Mr.  No  Talent"  had  become,  most  em- 
phatically, "Mr.  Double  Talent." 

With  Dean  Jones,  it  was  his  voice  which 
won  him  his  movie  contract.  And,  if 
M-G-M  plans  materialize,  he'll  be  tomor- 
row's Nelson  Eddy,  playing  the  romantic 
lead  in  musical  pictures. 

Born  in  Decatur,  Alabama,  he  was  a 
high-school  freshman  when  his  voice  de- 
veloped into  a  full,  rich  baritone.  For  his 
own  enjoyment  and  that  of  his  listeners, 
Dean  sang  at  school  and  church  programs. 
At  17,  the  handsome  six-footer  became 
president  of  the  Methodist  Church  Youth 
Organization  in  North  Alabama.  For  a 
time  he  wondered  if  he  had  "a  call,"  and 
took  over  the  pulpit  of  a  church  which 
had  no  minister. 

Torn  between  his  desire  to  go  into  the 
church  and  his  wish  to  act,  he  enrolled  at 
Asbury  College  in  Wilmore,  Kentucky. 
Later,  Navy  service  swung  the  balance. 
Stationed  at  San  Diego,  he  worked  on 
service  TV  shows  and  won  amateur  com- 
petitions. When  his  tour  of  duty  was  over, 
he  was  knee-deep  in  show  business. 
M-G-M,  on  signing  him,  made  him  the 
first  of  their  players  to  be  permitted  to 
appear  on  network  television.  To  popu- 
larize him  as  a  star,  he  will  make  eight 
NBC- TV  appearances,  six  of  them  on  the 
Steve  Alien  Show.  On  M-G-M  recordings, 
he  sings  with  a  sincere  warmth.  Recent 
discs  are  "The  Gypsy  in  My  Soul"  and 
"Young  and  In  Love." 

Dean  finds  his  personal  inspiration  in  a 
happy  family.  He  married  "Miss  San 
Diego" — Mae  Entwisle — in  1952,  and  they 
have  two  young  children. 

Movies,  TV  and  recording  dates  will 
make  1957  an  important  year  for  Dean 
Jones.  Ready  to  claim  a  well-starred  fu- 
ture, the  Decatur,  Alabama  lad  is  one  to 
watch. 

South  Philadelphia  seems  to  have  be- 
come a  special  sort  of  nursery  for  singers 
and  song  writers.  To  the  names  of  Eddie 
Fisher,  Johnny  Grande  of  Bill  Haley's 
Comets,  Mario  Lanza,  Joe  Valino,  Frankie 
Lester  and  Dick  Lee,  you  can  now  add  one 
spectacular  newcomer,  Charlie  Gracie,  and 
one  dark  horse,  Eddie  Dano. 

Charlie  Gracie,  young  though  he  is,  has 
been  in  show  business  long  enough  to 
take  applause  and  autographs  in  his  stride. 
But  his  eyes  popped  when  he  saw  this 
year's  first-quarter  royalty  check.  "I 
darn  near  fainted,"  he  says.  "How  could 
there  be  so  much  money?" 

Charlie's  private  money-mill  was  pow- 
ered by  two  recordings.  He  wrote  "Ninety- 
Nine  Ways"  and  recorded  it,  too.  Tab 
Hunter's  "cover"  was  the  big  click,  but 
Charlie  raked  in  royalties.  Then,  shortly, 
Charlie's  singing  topped  his  own  song.  His 
Cameo  platter  of  "Butterfly"  replaced 
"Ninety-Nine  Ways"  at  the  top  of  the 
charts.     "It    just   took    off,"    Charlie    says. 

It  was  a  high  triumph,  for  Charlie  in- 
herited his  desire  to  entertain  from  his 
father.  Sam  Gracie,  whose  performing 
career  was  blocked  by  the  Depression, 
taught  Charlie  to  play  and  sing.  Then 
Pops  Whiteman  came  along  with  his  TV 
teen  show,  out  of  Philadelphia,  and  Charlie 
won  it  five  times.  He  turned  down  college 
scholarships  to  concentrate  on  show  busi- 
ness. "Being  on  Ed  Sullivan's  show  was 
most  exciting,"  he  says.  "I  was  scared  stiff 
inside,  but  it  was  good  for  me." 

Home  in  the  old  neighborhood,  Charlie 
is  still  one  of  the  gang.  He  likes  sports 
clothes — "I'll  bet  I've  got  ten  red  shirts" — 
but  also  likes  to  "dress  up  and  go  formal." 


-  ■  ■  -.   -:.:.  .'.;,-.::-.  ;:.':..:-. 


The  big,  new  1957  edition  of 
TV-Radio  Annual  is  the  great- 
est ever!  It's  got  everything.  It 
covers  all  the  events  and  all 
the  history-making  moments  of 
all  the  great  shows  and  pro- 
grams of  the  year. 

ONLY  50*  WHILE  THEY  LAST 


TV-RADIO  MIRROR  RM-857  ■ 
205  E.  42nd  St.,  New  York  17.  N.  Y. 

Send    me    TV-RADIO    ANNUAL  1957.    I  J 

enclose  50c.  ( 

Name I 

Please  Print  I 

Address ■ 

City State ■ 


PROTECT   YOUR   IDEAS!       HOLD  ALL   SONGS,    POEMS! 
Write   for  safe,   correct   procedure! 

SONG  SERVICE 
Dept.  T.V.  333  W.  56th  St.,  New  York  19,  N.  Y. 

SONGWRITERS! 


FR££  MURHIW 


ILLUSTRATED  STYLE  CATALOG-Economy- 
Priced  Maternity  Fashions.  Dresses,  Sep- 
arates, Sportswear,  Bras,  Girdles,  Lingerie. 
WRITE  TODAY-CRAWFORD'S 

Dept.  35,  8015  Wornall,  Kansas  City  14,Mo. 


P/ay  Right  Away ! 

ANY  INSTRUMENT 

Now  it's  EASY  to  learn  ANY  INSTRUMENT— even  if 
you  don't  know  a  single  note  now.  No  boring-  exercises. 
You  play  delightful  pieces  RIGHT  AWAY— from  very  first 
lesson!  Properly — by  note.  Simple  as  A-B-C.  You  make 
amazing  progress — at  home,  in  spare  time, 
without    teacher.    Only    few    cents    per    lesson.  -■«** 

900,000  STUDENTS,  including  Lawrence  Welk. mal^^SS^^: 
rpCC  RHHIf  Shows  how  easy  it  isW**?-^^^ 
r  tttt  DUUfV  to  learn  music  this  mod- !(^^«*/. 
em  way.  Write  for  it.  No  obligation:  no  Wjj^ygatf  \ 
salesman  will  call  upon  you.  U.  S.  School  ■kV^kH^ 
of  Music  Studio  A208,  Port  Washington,  lMIP?£ljfa. 
N.   Y.    (59th  successful   year).  BBfei&l*; 

SHEETS,  TOASTERS, 
TOWELS,  MIXERS,  ec 

GIVEN  TO  YOU  FREE! 

Thousands  of  famous  prod- 
ucts to  choose  from  — furni- 
ture, fashions,  silverware, 
china,  draperies,  etc.  You 
|  get  $50.00  and  more  in 
merchandise  just  by  being 
Secretary  of  a  Popular  Club 
you  help  your  friends  form. 
It's  easy!  It's  fun!  Nothing 
to  sell,  nothing  to  buy.  Write 
today:  Popular  Club  Plan, 
Dept.  L930,  Lynbrook,  N.  Y. 

I   Popular  Club  Plan,  Dept.  L930,  Lynbrook,  N.Y.    j 
!  Send  Big  FREE  276-Page  FULL-COLOR  Catalog  j  T 

V 
.   Name. _ „ _.. ._ —  I 

I  R 

I  Address _. .....  I 

J   City „ State „  I 

" *       85 


SHEETS,  TOASTERS, 
TOWELS,  MIXERS,ete. 
GIVEN  TO  YOU  FREE! 

Thousands  of  famous  prod- 
ucts to  choose  from  — furni- 
ture,    fashions,     silverware, 

■     china,    draperies,    etc.    You 

^l  get    $50.00    and    more    in 

merchandise    just   by   being 

Secretary  of  a  Popular  Club 

i  you  help  your  friends  form. 
It's  easy!  It's  fun!  Nothing 
to  sell,  nothing  to  buy.  Write 
today:  Popular  Club  Plan, 
Dept.  L93 1 ,  Lynbrook,  N.  Y. 

j  Popular  Club  Plan.  Dept.  L931.  Lynbrook.  N.  Y.  j 
j  Send  Big  FREE  276-Page  FULL-COLOR  Catalog  j 

•  Name I 

I  Address „  ■ 


OLD  LEG  TROUBLE 


Easy  to  use  Viscose  Applications  may 
heal  many  old  leg  sores  due  to  venous 
congestion  of  varicose  veins,  leg  swell- 
ing or  injuries.  Send  today  for  a  FREE 
BOOK  and  No-Cost-For-Trial-plan. 

R.  G.   VISCOSE  COMPANY 
140  N.  Dearborn  Street,    Chicago  2,  Illinois 


Be  a.  Hotel  Hostess 


Enjoy  Your  Work!  Fascinating  po- 
sitions in  hotels,  motels,  clubs, 
apartment  house  projects  as  Host- 
ess, Executive  Housekeeper,  Man- 
ager, etc.  Alice  Behr  writes:  "Am 
Hotel  Hostess- Housekeeper  and  my 
position  is  well-paid."  Write  for 
FREE  book,  "Your  Big  Opportunity."  Approved  for 
ALL  Veteran  Training.  Lewis  Hotel  Training  School. 
Sta.  CM-118-01,  Washington  7,  D.  C.  41st  Year. 

ANY  PHOTO  ENLARGED 

Size  3  x  10  Inches 

on  DOUBLE-WEIGHT  Paper 

Same  price  for  full  length  or  bust 
form,  groups,  landscapes,  pet  ani- 
mals, etc.,  or  enlargements  of  any 
part  of  a  group  picture.  Original  is 
returned  with  your  enlargement. 

Send  No  Money  3for*l75 

Just  mail  photo,  negative  or  snap- 
shot (any  size)  and  receive  your  enlargement,  guar  ■ 
anteed  fadeless,  on  beautiful  double  -  weight 
portrait  quality  paper.  Pay  postman  76c  plus 
postage— or  send  79c  with  order  and  we  pay  post- 
age. Take  advantage  of  this  amazing  offer.  Send  your  photos  today. 

Professional  Art  Studios,  544  S.  Main,  Dept  37-  K,  Princeton,  Illinois 


76 


RUPTURE-EASER 


(APlper  Iirace  Truss)  i 


Double...  5.95 


¥        Right  or  left 

No 

F      Sid*$A95 

Fitting 

2606551  »| 

9£^*  •» 

Required 

86 


^^  A  strong,  form -fitting  washable  support 
for  reducible  inguinal  hernia.  Back  lacing  adjustable. 
Snaps  up  In  front.  Adjustable  leg  strap.  Soft,  flat  groin 
pad  No  steel  or  leather  bands.  Unexcelled  for  comfort. 
Also  used  as  after  operation  support.  For  men.  women, 
children.  Mail  orders  give  meajure  around  the  lowest 
part  of  the  abdomen  and  state  right,  left  side  or 
double.    We   Prepay    Postage    except    CO.D.'i. 

PIPER   BRACE    CO. 
811  Wyandotte  Dept.  TRIM -87        Kansas  City  5.  Mo. 


BLONDE  Hair 

/Comes  to  LIFE 
in  II  Minutes 
i^At  Home! 


Special  Shampoo 

Bring*  Out  the  Shining, 

Radiant  Color  Men  love  I 

Want  to  keep  your  hair  from  getting  dork  and  faded?  Want  to 
restore  its  life  and  lustre  — see  it  shades  lighter,  brighter,  shinier  — 
at  once!  Then  use  BLONDEX,  the  new  Swedish  lotion  shampoo  made 
specially  for  blondes  —  fresh  as  you  need  it!  Contains  ANDIUM  — 
shines  and  lightens  as  it  shampoos.  In  just  1 1  minutes,  its  creamy, 
billowy  lather  rinses  away  dingy  film  that  mokes  hair  dark  and 
dull,  uncovers  sparkling  highlights  and  lustre.  Safe  for  children.  Get 
BLONDEX  today  at  10*.  drug  or  deportment  stores. 


He  hopes  to  buy  a  new  house  for  his 
family  and  eventually  one  for  himself. 
"I'm  not  ready  to  get  serious  yet,  but 
when  I  do,  I  want  a  home-type  girl.  I'm 
home  so  seldom  that,  when  I  am,  I  want 
a  real  home  waiting  for  me." 

The  second  South  Philadelphia  singer, 
Eddie  Dano,  has  the  voice,  the  ambition, 
the  personality  to  score  a  big  hit,  once 
he  finds  the  right  song.  He  was  discov- 
ered, of  all  places,  working  in  the  cata- 
logue department  of  RCA  Victor  in  New 
York,  during  a  Christmas  party.  "Every- 
one was  singing,"  says  Eddie,  "and,  when 
they  asked  me  to,  I  sounded  off.  I  love 
to  sing.  It  didn't  matter  to  me  there  was 
no  piano,  no  music,  no  nothing." 

Luck  hit,  just  like  in  the  movies.  Manny 
Sachs,  then  head  of  the  recording  com- 
pany, drifted  by.  Had  it  been  the  movies, 
Mr.  Sachs  would  have  rushed  Eddie  right 
down  to  a  studio  and  shouted  for  engi- 
neers. In  real  life,  the  process  is  slower. 
He  advised  Eddie  to  study  and  to  play 
club  dates  to  get  the  feel  of  an  audience. 
Last  fall,  they  had  a  Vik  contract  ready 
for  him.  He  has  been  on  the  Don  McNeill, 
Robert  Q.  Lewis  and  Robert  Montgomery 
shows.  He's  due  for  a  new  record  release 
soon.  Says  Eddie,  "I  sure  could  use  a  hit. 
My  dad,  who  used  to  drive  a  taxi,  now  has 
arthritis  and  can't  work.  I'm  sole  sup- 
port of  the  family.  But  I'm  going  to  get 
there.  Every  club  date  I  play  teaches  me 
that  much  more."  Bunny  Fisher,  Eddie 
Fisher's  younger  brother,  is  one  of  his 
pals.  He  has  seen  what  changes  a  hit  can 
make  for  an  entire  family.  Eddie  Dano  is 
determined  there  will  be  two  top  singing 
Eddies  from  South  Philadelphia. 

Also  in  the  "ready  to  go"  class  is  Bill 
Carey,  who  can  croon  a  ballad,  belt  out  a 
rock  'n'  roller  or  moan  a  blues  with  the 
best  of  them.  His  springtime  release  for 
Savoy,  "The  Padre  of  Old  San  Antone," 
backed  with  "You've  Broken  My  Heart," 
fluttered  but  did  not  fly.  He  hopes  that 
a  blues  which  he  wrote  himself,  "Beyond 
the  Shadow  of  a  Doubt,"  will  be  his  sum- 
mer contender  for  hit-parade  honors. 

Back  home  in  Chicago,  Bill's  vocal  ca- 
reer began  forcibly.  The  band  at  a  fra- 
ternity dance  had  no  vocalist.  Pals  con- 
verged on  Bill  and  literally  tossed  him  on 
stage. 

His  Chicago  TV  shows  and  recordings 
were  done  under  his  own  name,  Bill  Snary. 
New  Yorkers,  he  found,  habitually  mis- 
spelled it,  so  he  did  a  slight  revision  to 
*  Carey." 

Those  first  Manhattan  days  were  rigor- 
ous. He  was  making  the  rounds  when  he 
ran  into  another  Chicagoan,  Jim  Lowe, 
who  was  having  no  better  luck.  Pooling 
resources,  they  took  an  apartment  and  got 
out  of  depressing  single  hotel  rooms. 
Working  together,  they  almost  made  it 
with  "Witch  on  the  Mountain,"  which  Bill 
wrote  and  Jim  recorded.  Jim,  now  on 
WCBS,  clicked  with  "Green  Door"  and— 
with  the  same  kind  of  rivalry  which  can 
put  two  pals  on  a  basketball  team— Bill 
feels  he,  too,  has  a  big  one  upcoming. 

Double-date-wise,  they're  enough  to  give 
any  girl  schizophrenia.  Said  one  young 
lady,  "I  never  knew  which  one  I  had  the 
worst  crush  on.  They're  so  handsome,  so 
alike,  so  different  .  .  ." 

Both  are  six-two  and  broad-shouldered. 
Both  have  curly  hair,  but  Jim's  is  blond 
and  his  mischievous  blue  eyes  twinkle. 
Bill  is  dark,  with  olive  skin  and  dreamy 
brown  eyes.  In  their  lean  days,  they  wore 
each  other's  clothes — and  doubled  their 
effective  wardrobe. 

As  joyous  a  pair  of  bachelors  as  ever 
teamed  up  to  go  girling  around  Manhattan, 
the  two  now  occupy  a  swank  Sutton  Place 
apartment.  Friends  predict  that,  for  Bill, 
as  well  as  for  Jim,  there's  many  a  hit  rec- 
ord still  behind  that  Green  Door. 


In  today's  wide-open  recording  race, 
even  the  lollipop  set  has  its  own  particular 
hero.  He's  Scott  Engel,  13,  who  still  likes 
his  model  airplanes  but  is  just  discover- 
ing girls.  Scott,  who  gathered  his  own 
fan  clubs  while  appearing  as  star  of 
George  Scheck's  Star  Time  on  ABC-TV, 
belts  out  his  first  recording  in  a  big  voice. 
Appropriately,  his  RKO-Unique  platter  is 
entitled,  "When  Is  a  Boy  a  Man?" 

Scott  himself  has  been  doing  a  man- 
sized  job  ever  since  he  was  five,  when  he 
simultaneously  learned  to  ride  a  horse, 
sing  a  song  and  act  his  first  role  in  a  Texas 
production  of  "Ten  Nights  in  a  Barroom." 
He  acquired  more  dignified  credits  on 
Broadway.  His  first  role  was  in  "Plain 
and   Fancy,"   followed   by    "Pipe    Dream." 

While  still  calling  Denver,  Colorado,  his 
home,  he  shares  a  New  York  apartment 
with  his  mother.  Scott's  room  is  filled 
with  model  aircraft  and  cars  he  has  as- 
sembled and  drawings  he  has  made.  He 
took  to  his  first  song-plugging  tour  heart- 
ily. It  afforded  him  not  only  an  oppor- 
tunity to  meet  disc  jockeys,  but  also  to  get 
out  to  visit  friends  in  Ohio  who  had  a  big 
farm.  Scott  made  the  most  of  it.  His  one 
objection  to  Manhattan  is:  "It's  no  place  to 
own  a  dog,  ride  a  horse  or  shoot  a  gun. 
I'm  the  outdoor  type." 

Johnny  Mathis,  one  of  the  best  athletes 
ever  to  come  out  of  the  San  Francisco 
public-school  system,  learned  to  soar  on 
the  high  jump.  His  six-feet,  five-and-a- 
half-inch  record  has  been  duplicated  only 
four  times  in  Olympic  history.  In  music, 
too,  Johnny  has  set  his  sights  high.  When 
his  Columbia  recordings,  "Warm  and 
Tender"  and  "Wonderful,  Wonderful," 
went  into  the  popularity  charts,  Johnny 
took  the  news  in  stride.  "Sure,  I'd  like  a 
hit,  but  I'd  rather  develop  into  a  distinc- 
tive, dynamic  personality.  Someone  like 
Nat  'King'  Cole,  Sinatra,  Lena  Home  or 
Belafonte." 

Aided  by  Bob  Prince,  his  arranger  and 
general  advisor,  Johnny  chooses  his  songs 
carefully.  "If  it  is  musically  good,  if  it  is 
sincere,  it  will  be  easy  to  sing  and  easy 
to  keep  on  doing." 

Appearance  in  the  movie,  "Lizzie,"  was 
a  step  upward,  but  his  biggest  boost  came 
right  from  his  own  family.  Johnny  is 
number  four  among  the  six  Mathis  chil- 
dren. His  father,  Clem,  now  an  interior 
decorator,  was  once  a  song- and- dance 
man.  "Dad  taught  us  all  his  routines. 
We'd  have  a  ball."  Johnny,  dressed  up  in 
his  best  sports  coat,  earned  many  a  five- 
dollar  fee  "from  Ladies'  Leagues  and 
things  like  that,"  but  refused  early  offers 
to  turn  pro,  either  as  a  musician  or  ath- 
lete. "None  of  them  was  worth  quitting 
school  to  take."  At  San  Francisco  State 
College,  he  majored  in  physical  educa- 
tion. 

He  also  studied  classical  music.  Irrev- 
erently, he  referred  to  one  of  the  most 
august  of  masters  as  "Dick  Wagner,"  pro- 
voking frantic  shouts  from  his  teacher, 
"You  pronounce  it  'Reekard  Vaagner'!" 
However,  Johnny's  pal  "Dick,"  with  his 
voice-taxing  arias,  taught  Johriny  to  sweep 
from  his  highest  voice  range  to  his  lowestT " 
Johnny  used  this  technique  in  "Caravan" 
— "There's  a  lot  of  satisfaction  in  doing  a 
difficult  piece  well."  Columbia's  peri- 
patetic producer  of  pop  albums,  George 
Avakian,  who  signed  Johnny,  says,  "He 
can  do  as  many  different  things  as  four 
very  different  singers  might — and  do  them 
all  well  .  .  .  there's  tenderness  in  'Autumn 
in  Rome,'  violence  in  'Babalu,'  exoticism 
in  'Caravan,'  and  downright  rhythm-and- 
blues  in  'Angel  Eyes.'  His  improvisational 
flights  in  all  tempos  are  a  reflection  of  his 
awareness  of  modern  jazz." 

Johnny's  goal  for  a  distinguished  mus- 
ical career  interferes,  he  admits,  with  his 
personal  wish  for  the  warm  family  life  he 


MS 


has  always  known.  When  he  dares  choose 
a  wife,  he  thinks  it  will  be  a  career  girl. 
"They're  more  independent.  Their  minds 
aren't  so  easily  changed.  It  takes  more 
persuasion  before  they're  ready  to  marry 
a  guy."  Above  all,  his  girl  has  to  be  a 
lady:  "They've  found  out  that  a  girl  can 
be  beautiful  in  so  many  ways.  Such  a  girl 
is  more  interesting.  You  always  discover 
new  things  about  her." 

Is  there  any  particular  girl?  Johnny 
admits  a  certain  little  Manhattan  secre- 
tary has  him  worried.  "That  Joan  Wright 
.  .  .  we  go  to  dinner,  or  bicycle  riding  in 
the  park  .  .  .  well,  sometimes  I  have  to  re- 
mind myself  I  haven't  yet  got  where  I 
want  to  get  in  music.  .  .  ." 

Both  discouragements  and  approval  help 
define  a  singer's  style.  Eddie  Cochran, 
the  Oklahoma-born,  Minnesota-reared 
Californian  who  gave  many  teenagers 
their  song  in  "Sittin'  in  the  Balcony,"  still 
bristles  about  "that  glee  club  deal."  Says 
Eddie,  "This  teacher  didn't  dig  the  music 
I  was  singing.  He  gave  me  a  bad  time, 
man.  He  wanted  me  to  sing  all  this  long- 
hair stuff  he  was  trying  to  teach  me." 

Eddie  already  knew  how  he  wanted  to 
sound.  "My  brothers,  sisters,  dad  and 
mother  liked  to  hear  me  sing.  We  used  to 
sing  around  the  house.  Home  singing  is 
happy   singing." 

As  an  exuberant  guitar  player,  he  sat  in 
on  recording  dates  of  others.  Song  writer 
Jerry  Capehart,  his  personal  manager, 
sent  him  solo  to  Liberty  Records  with 
"Twenty  Flight  Rock"— "then  they  called 
me  and  asked  if  I'd  be  kind  enough  to  do 
a  part  in  the  movie  "The  Girl  Can't  Help 
It.'  It  just  about  knocked  me  out.  Every- 
body was  real  great  to  me."  Acclaim 
brings  problems:  "You  go  all  these  places 
and  all  these  people  are  buttering  you  up 
.  .  .  the  girls  screaming  and  all.  It's  not 
easy  to  keep  your  feet  on  the  ground, 
man."  While  he  has  worked  for  his  suc- 
cess, he  also  thinks  he's  lucky.  "I  feel 
kind  of  bad  about  some  who  have  been 
in  it  longer  than  me,  and  trying  hard, 
that  don't  make  it."  Eddie,  young  as  he 
is,  tries  to  take  a  long  view.  "We're  just 
regular  people,  so  when  this  deal  came 
along — why,  we  just  looked  at  it  as  some- 
thing else." 

Bob  Roubian,  too,  takes  a  stoutly  mat- 
ter-of-fact view.  Although  Prep  Records, 
which  launched  his  "Rocket  to  the  Moon" 
and  "Paper  Moon,"  considers  him  one  of 
its  most  promising  artists,  colorful  Bob 
maintains,  "I'm  in  the  fish  business."  And 
indeed  he  is.  Once  a  mathematics  major 
at  Pomona  Junior  College,  he  now  owns 
a  restaurant,  "The  Crab  Cooker,"  at  New- 
port Beach,  near  Hollywood,  where  mu- 
sicians such  as  Johnny  Mercer  and  Coun- 
try Washburn  enjoy  both  good  food  and 
jam  sessions.  Bob  writes  music  and  sings 
in  a  big,  booming  voice.  "I  like  good 
jazz.  The  kind  you  get  on  Basin  Street 
and  Bergen  Street  in  New   Orleans." 

His  father,  a  contractor,  is  Armenian; 
his  mother,  an  Italian.  Negroes  moved 
into  their  area  in  Pasadena.  "That's  where 
my  music  started.  I'd  go  to  their  churches 
to  listen.  They  preach  a  lyric.  I  am  so 
happy  to  feel  the  rhythm  the  colored  peo- 
ple do.  I  intend  to  write  like  them."  His 
"Popcorn  Song,"  recorded  with  Clime 
Stone's  aid,  sold  half  a  million.  Now  his 
way  is  opening:  "I  have  a  lot  of  faith  my 
dreams  will  come  true." 

George  Hamilton  IV,  age  19,  is  another 
who  has  found  dreams  can  come  true.  As 
a  student  at  the  University  of  North 
Carolina,  he  was  working  part-time  at 
WTOB-TV  when  he  recorded  his  friend 
Johnny  Dee's  song  for  Colonial.  His  ap- 
pearance on  the  Arthur  Godfrey  shows 
gave  it  a  national  hearing.  "A  Rose  and 
a  Baby  Ruth"  sold  100,000  records  in  two 
days  and  ABC-Paramount  bought  the 
master.     George  scored  again  with  "Only 


One  Love."  He  now  is  heard  on  CBS-TV's 
Jimmy  Dean  Show. 

His  numerical  name  has  provoked  many 
questions.  Says  George,  "My  mother  had 
to  get  me  a  copy  of  the  family  tree  so  that 
I  could  answer  them.  The  Hamiltons 
came  from  Edinburgh,  Scotland.  The  first 
to  be  born  in  America  was  Alexander  Ho- 
ratio in  1756."  He  also  can  chart  the 
course  of  his  own  ambition:  "As  a  kid  I 
thought  Gene  Autry  was  the  living  end." 
Hank  Williams  was  next.  "I  always  lis- 
tened to  Grand  Ole  Opry  on  Saturday 
nights."  His  reaction  to  his  own  sudden 
rise  is  on  the  cool  side.  He  lives  in  a 
rooming  house  in  a  Washington  suburb, 
dislikes  big  cities  and  much  prefers  driv- 
ing up  into  the  mountains  or  seeing  a 
show  with  his  girlfriend,  Tinky,  to  going 
to  night  clubs. 

J  ohnny  Cash  has  Big  River  blues  in 
his  voice  .  .  .  and  the  sound  of  the  prairie 
wind.  On  his  guitar,  he  plays  "an  old 
standard  country  beat  with  the  rhythm 
accented  and  intensified."  But,  in  this, 
his  listeners  find  the  drive  of  America  on 
the  go  ...  to  work,  to  war,  to  love — and, 
sometimes,  just  to  go.  His  song  titles, 
too,  carry  the  theme:  "I  Walk  the  Line," 
"There  You  Go,"  "Next  in  Line,"  "Train 
of  Love,"  "So  Doggone  Lonesome,"  "Don't 
Make  Me  Go." 

Intense,  talented  Johnny  has  a  right  to 
be  the  apostle  of  the  uprooted.  Kingsland, 
Arkansas,  was  grim,  heartbreaking  coun- 
try when  Johnny  was  born  February  26, 
1932.  With  the  aid  of  a  rehabilitation 
program,  the  family  moved  to  forty  acres 
near  Dyess.  They  found  no  fortune,  but 
they  always  sang.  At  18,  he  enlisted  in 
the  Air  Force  and  met  his  girl  "sixteen 
nights  before  I  was  sent  to  Germany  for 
three  years."  Upon  his  return,  they  were 
married.  In  Memphis,  Johnny  tried  to 
sell  home  appliances.  He  was  "doing  very 
bad"  when  he  went  over  to  Sun  Records, 
around  the  corner  from  Beale  Street,  to 
ask  Sam  Phillips  (the  man  who  discovered 
Elvis  Presley)  for  an  audition.  Sam,  un- 
impressed by  Johnny's  hymn  singing,  sug- 
gested he  try  writing  his  own  songs — he 
had  had  some  poems  published  in  Stars 
and  Stripes.  Johnny  produced  "Cry,  Cry, 
Cry,"  and  "Hey,  Porter."  His  friends, 
Luther  Perkins  and  Marshall  Grant, 
backed  him  on  guitar  and  bass.  Today, 
the  three  are  in  demand  for  TV  and  per- 
sonal   appearances. 

A  song  evolves  by  lonely  stages  for 
Johnny.  Out  on  the  road  with  a  show,  he 
gets  homesick.  Scraps  of  words  and  bits 
of  music  "come  into  my  head.  Then,  when 
I  get  home,  I  fish  maybe  forty,  fifty 
scraps  of  paper — my  notes — out  of  my 
pockets  and  go  to  work.  Then  maybe 
I  get  a  tune." 

Many  a  young  hopeful  follows  the  same 
song-writing  formula.  Touring  rock  'n' 
roll  and  hillbilly  shows  give  the  boys  a 
chance  to  try  out  their  tunes  before  an 
audience  of  their  own  age.  If  a  little 
studio  then  cuts  a  few  discs  and  the  tune 
takes  off,  both  singer  and  studio  are  on 
their  way  to  a  fortune. 

That's  the  individual  side  of  it — star- 
tling, exciting,  life-changing  for  the  lucky 
ones.  The  collective  effect  is  overpower- 
ing. About  150  new  recordings — 300  songs 
— are  being  released  each  week.  If  the 
kids  like  the  tune,  it's  made,  whatever 
its  label.  Trade  publications  such  as 
Variety,  Billboard  and  The  Cash  Box  call 
it  an  unprecedented  "grass-roots  move- 
ment," a  musical  revolution  in  which  the 
kid  next  door  has  almost  as  much  chance 
for  a  hit  as  the  professional  tunesmith  or 
big-name  singer. 

The  field's  wide  open.  Anyone  can  win 
— if  he  has  the  talent  and  personality  that 
speak  to  America's  teenagers  in  rhythms 
which  pulse  with  their  own  heartbeat. 


YOU'D  NEVER  KNOW  I  HAD 


For  24  years  psoriasis  sufferers  have 

learned  that  Siroil  tends  to  remove 

unsightly     external    crusts    and 

scales.  If  lesions  recur,  light 

applications  of  Siroil  help 

control  them.  Siroil  won't 

stain  clothing  or  bed 

linens.  Offered  on  2 

weeks-  satisfaction- 

or-money-re- 

funded  basis. 


THytUittA  ta 


SIROIL 


Write  for  NEW  FREE 
BOOKLET,  written  by 
REGISTERED  PHYSICIAN. 

It  answers  30  most-asked 
questions  about  psoriasis. 


AT  ALL 
DRUG  STORES 

~ SIROIL  LABORATORIES.  INC. 

Oept.  M-88  Santa  Monica.  Calif. 

I  Please   send   me  your  new  free   booklet  on   PSORIASIS.   ■ 

I 
I 


Pleast  Print 


$ 


500 

PAID 


FOR  YOUR 

CHILD'S 


PHOTO 


CASH  PAYMENTS  made  for  chil- 
dren's photos,  all  types,  ages  1 
mo.  to  18  yrs.  by  national  adver- 
tisers. Hundreds  selected  every 

month  for  uae  in  advertising.  Send  1  small  photo  for  approval. 

Print  child's  &  mother's  name,  address  on  back.  Also  2  FREE 

gifts  for  photos  selected.  Returned  2  weeks.  No  obligation. 

AD -PHOTOS,  6087-HH  Sunset,  Hollywood  28,  Calif. 


TROUBLED 
WITH 

UNWANTED 
HAIR? 


^PROVIDENCE  15, 1. 1. 


You   needn't   be!   Now  you    can 
nove    unwanted    hair    forever 
in  the  privacy  of  your  home 
with  the  famous  Mahler  Hair 
{ Removal     Epilator!    Acclaimed 
by    thousands    of    women    who 
have    discovered     how    Mahler 
destroys   the   hair    root    perma- 
[nentlyl  By  following  our  instruc- 
you,  too,  can  learn  to  use 
he    Mahler   safely   and    effi- 
ciently! Positive  money-back 
guarantee!  Act  today! 


Ithe 


'Send  5$   for  illustrated  16-page 
booklet  "New  Radiant  Beauty"! 


.ua«L 


Prepare  now,  at  home,  for  a  wonderful  acting  career!  Open 
the  door  that  mav  bring  fabulous  Hollywood  or  New  York 
contracts  in  TV.Movies,  the  Theater!  New  faces,  new  tal- 
ent,  are  urgently  needed!  Real  opportunity  for  men  and 
women  of  all  ages!  Learn  latest  acting  techniques,  direction, 
I  show  business  "success  secrets"!  Develop  new  poise  ,  yi- 
i  brant  personality  as  you  mould  your  basic  talent.  We've 
helped  countless  others ...  let  us  show  you  the  way. 

Frjrr  I  "Talent  Aptitude'Teit.Nolhinglikeifever!  Lets  you 
tlLLi    ,a,e  Vour  ",,en,  <>9oimt  "«»udio  requirements." 
I  Write  for  FREt~"Tesl"&  "Success  Plan"!  No  salesman  will  coll.^ 

•  HOLLYWOOD  ROYAL  ACADEMY  • 
\  Studio  K7       5880  Hollywood  Blvd.,  Hollywood  28,  Calif; 


—because  you  lack  a 
HIGH  SCHOOL  DIPLOMA 

•  You  can  qualify  for  an  American  School 
Diploma  in  spare  time  at  home!  If  you  have 
left  school,  write  or  mail  coupon  for  FREE 
booklet  that  tells  how.  No  obligation  of  any 
kind. 
OUR  60TH  YEAR j 

AMERICAN  SCHOOL,   Dept.   HC53 
Drexel  at  58th,  Chicago  37,  Illinois 

Please  send  FREE  High  School  booklet. 

Name j 

Address I 


City    &   State. , 


Complete   Canadian   Courses   available.    Write   American 
School,  Dept.  HC53,  6083  Sherbrooke  St.  W.,  Montreal. 


T 
V 
R 

87 


NEW  DESIGNS  FOR  LIVING 


7272 — Pretty  apron  with  old-fashioned  girls 
done  in  simple  embroidery  stitches.  Their 
bonnets  form  pockets.  Transfer,  directions  for 
apron  17  inches  long.  Make  bonnets  and  ruffles 
of  gay  remnants.    250 


7290 — Children  love  these  "animal"  pillows — 
lion,  dog,  or  cat  faces  are  embroidered  on 
backgrounds  of  white  or  gay  prints.  Transfer 
of  faces,  directions  for  3  pillows,  each  10  x  10 
inches.    250 


/a23 — Crochet  directions  for  all  three  lovely 
doilies.  Material  requirements  in  three  differ- 
ent weight  threads.  Round  doily  is  8  inches; 
square,  12;  oval,  12  x  14  inches;  in  No.  50 
cotton.  250 

7061 — Graceful  doily-bowl  combination  for 
your  dining  table.  They're  crocheted  together 
in  gay  contrast  colors,  or  you  may  make  the 
17-inch  doily  alone.  Use  heavy  jiffy  cotton. 
Starch  bowl  for  stiffness.  250 


535 — Make  your  guest  linens  dainty  and  lovely. 
Embroider  them  with  gay  water  lilies,  finish 
with  crocheted  edging.  Transfers  of  two  motifs, 
4>y2  x  13^  inches;  one,  5l/2  x  19%.  Directions 
for  crocheted  edging.  250 


508 — Three  graceful  medallions  with  wide 
edging  in  petal  and  chain  stitches  make  this 
lovely  oval  doily.  Crochet  directions  for  doily 
15  x  26  inches  in  No.  30  cotton.  For  smaller 
doily,  use  No.  50.   250 


7003 — Gay  patchwork  quilt  is  thrifty  and  easy. 
Use  scraps.  Three  simple  patches  repeated 
form  the  lovely  design.  Make  pillow  tops,  too. 
Pattern,  charts,  directions.    250 


Send  twenty-five  cents  (in  coin)  for  each  pattern  to:  TV  Radio  Mirror,  Needlecraft  Service,  P.O.  Box  137,  Old  Chelsea  Station, 
New  York  11,  New  York.  Add  five  cents  for  each  pattern  for  first-class  mailing.  Send  additional  25$  for  Needlework  Catalogue. 


5000 

IS  YOURS 

for  selling  only  50  boxes  of  our 
ALL  STAR  Christmas  card  line. 
And  we  give  you  a  FREE  ALBUM 
to  work  with.  Also  these  two 
outstanding  box  assortments  on 
approval.  Mail  coupon  today! 


It  costs  you  nothing  to  try  I 


Last  Year  some  folks  made 
$250  —  $500  —  $1,000  and 
more  this  easy  way.  Church 
groups  and  organizations  can  do 
it,  too.  No  experience  ncessary. 


Gay  21 -Card  Assortment 

with 

HOLIDAY  RED 

Envelopes 
All  Different 

Prize  Assortment  —  $1.00 


MAIL  THIS  COUPON  TODAY 


Charles  C.  Schwer  Company 

252  Elm  Street,  Westfield,  Massachusetts 

Please  rush  FREE  sample  ALBUM  with  ALL  STAR  Christmas  Card 
line  plus  the  two  boxes  shown  above  on  approval.  Also  send 
full  details  of  your  easy  money-making  plan. 


(Please  Print) 


Name 

Address 

City State  

If  writing  for  an  organization,  please  write  its  name  in  the  margin. 


WINSTON  flavor  gets  a  big  hand  everywhere! 

Don't  be  surprised  if  you  keep  bumping  into 
Winston  fans  wherever  you  go.  For  honest-to- 
goodness  flavor  is  what  everybody  wants  in  a 
cigarette !  And,  Winston  has  an  exclusive  filter 
that  lets  the  full,  rich  tobacco  taste  come 
through.  Start  enjoying  flavory  filter  smoking,  smart, 

CORK-SMOOTH  TIP 

today.  Get  a  pack  of  Winstons ! 


F  »  *  E  R 


R.J.  REYNOLDS  TOBACCO  CO.,  WINSTON-SALEM.  NX. 


Smoke  WINSTON  Americas  best-selling,  best-tasting  filter  cigarette! 


H&  wULL 


MIRR 


DIO  MIRROR  .  sept. 


New  Career  for  SAL  MINEO 


.  ■ ,,.-  ■ 


Quiz  Kin 


* 


MRS.  ED  SULLIVAN 

Talks  About  Ed 


Music 


* 


MINNIE  PEARL 

"Grand  Ole  Opry" 


A^^fUV't 


Ml 

MIKE  WALLACE 

Demon  Interviewer 


That  IvCWCy  look    so  clear. . .  so  fresh. 

. . .  so  easily  yours 


Up  to  her  saucy  nose  in  loveliness — with  the  soft,  clear  look  Ivory  can  give 

your  complexion,  too.  Yes,  the  milder  your  soap,  the  lovelier  your  skin — and  Ivory  is 

mild  enough  for  a  baby's  skin!  That's  why  a  simple  change  to  regular  Ivory  care 

leaves  yours  so  fresh  and  clear— petal-smooth  with  That  Ivory  Look. 

99  V6o% pure®. . .  it  floats 

Afore  doctors  advise  Ivory  than,  any  other  soap 


Wash  your  face  regularly  with 
pure,  gentle  Ivory.  The  magic 
of  its  mildness  does  so  much 
for  your  skin! 


h  mi/ rnaideiifbrm;  bra 


Maidenform  is  just  my  cup  of  tea  . .  .  such  a  marvelous  pick-me-up!  Chansonette's 
unique  spoke -stitched  cups  give  me  the  lift  of  a  lifetime.  And  Chansonette*  Tri-Line* 
adds  three-point  miracle  straps  for  extra  comfort,  extra  accent,  extra  cling!  Treat 
yourself  today  to  one  of  these  beautiful  bras!  A,  B,  and  C  cups.  Chansonette — 
from  2.00.  Chansonette  Tri-Line— 2.50. 


MOEN  FORM  BRASSIERE  CO.,  INC.,  NEWYORK  IS,  N.  Y. 


The  weather's  fine,  the  forecast's  bright, 
the  time  is  ripe — to  get  up  and  go  where 
you  want  to  go,  do  what  you  want  to 
do!  What  in  this  wide  world  should  hold 
you  back  from  having  a  wonderful  time, 
any  time  you  choose?  Surely  not  monthly 
difficulties,  not  when  Tampax  is  so 
available. 

Tampax®  is  the  modern  sanitary  pro- 
tection that  helps  you  live  your  life  with- 
out worry  about  "problem  days."  It's 
so  comfortable,  because  there's  nothing  to 
chafe  or  bind  ...  so  cool,  because  it's 
worn  internally  ...  so  sure,  because 
nothing  can  show  and  no  one  can  know! 
Not  even  tell  tale  odor  can  form! 

Tampax  is  the  last  word  in  daintiness! 
Light  as  a  powder  puff,  it's  made  of  pure 
surgical  cotton,  compressed  into  smooth, 
easily  disposable  applicators — so  that 
your  hands  don't  ever  have  to  touch  it! 

You  can  tuck  away  a  whole  month's 
supply  of  Tampax  in  the  side  pocket  of 
your  grip — and  off  you'll  go  on  your 
unscheduled  flight  to  freedom!  Do  it 
now.  Try  Tampax.  You'll  never  want 
to  use  anything  else!  Choice  of  3  ab- 
sorbencies  (Regular,  Junior,  Super) 
wherever  drug  products  are  sold.  Tampax 
Incorporated,  Palmer,  Mass. 


-"'"'        Invented  by  a  doctor — 
now  used  by  millions  of  women 


TV 


RADIO 
MIRROR 


SEPTEMBER,    1957 


ATLANTIC   EDITION 


VOL.  48,  NO.  4 


Ann  Mosher,  Editor 
Teresa  Buxton,  Managing  Editor 
Claire  Safran,  Associate  Editor 
Gay  Miyoshi,  Assistant  Editor 


Jack  Zasorin,  Art  Director 
Frances  Maly,  Associate  Art  Director 
Joan  Clarke,  Assistant  Art  Director 
Bud  Goode,  West  Coast  Editor 


PEOPLE  ON  THE  AIR 

What's  New  on  the  East  Coast by  Peter  Abbott  4 

What's  New  on  the  West  Coast by  Bud  Goode  10 

Ed  Sullivan's  Travels by  Mrs.  Ed  Sullivan  17 

Young  Man  in  a  Hurry  (Jay  Barney) by  Diane  Isola  20 

Meet  the  Quiz  Kings  Face  to  Face! by  Frances  Kish  22 

Interview  Subject:  Mike  Wallace by  Gregory  Merwin  26 

He's  Walkin'  on  Air  (Ricky  Nelson) by  Fredda  Balling  28 

Try  These  Recipes by  Kathryn  Murray  30 

Hilltop  House  (Fiction  Bonus  based  on  the  popular  daytime  drama) ...  44 

Come  to  the  Aid  of  Your  Party  (The  Mace  School) .  .by  Mary  Temple  46 

Keeping  Up  With  The  Dick  Joneses by  Gordon  Budge  50 

Grand  Ole  Opry 52 

A  Dog's  Life    (Lassie ) 58 

FEATURES  IN  FULL  COLOR 

Sal  Mineo's  Really  Moving by  Helen  Bolstad  32 

Three's  the  Most!   (The  McGuire  Sisters) by  Martin  Cohen  34 

A  Slightly  Reformed  Character  (Spike  Jones).... by  Maurine  Remenih  38 

He  Will  Never  Be  a  Has-Been!  (Elvis  Presley) by  Eunice  Field  40 

YOUR  LOCAL  STATION 

Spinning  Around    (WORD 6 

From  Borsht  to  Caviar  (WWDC) 8 

The  Record  Players:  Ambassador  Satch by  Al  Collins  12 

All  for  Glamour  (Debra  Paget— NT  A  Film  Network) 14 

Morsels  for  Thought  (WCSH,  WCSH-TV) ; . . .  59 

Your  Pal  Pallan    (KDKA) 60 


YOUR  SPECIAL  SERVICES 

Information  Booth 13 

TV  Radio  Mirror  Goes  to  the  Movies by  Janet  Graves  15 

Movies  on  TV 16 

Beauty:  One  Look — Two  Ways  (The  Terry  Twins)  ..by  Harriet  Segman  57 

New  Patterns  for  You   (smart  wardrobe  suggestions) 68 

Vote  for  Your  Favorites  (monthly  Gold  Medal  ballot) 80 

New  Designs  for  Living   (needlecraft  and  transfer  patterns) 88 

Cover  portrait  of  Ricky  Nelson  courtesy  of  ABC-TV 


BUY  YOUR  OCTOBER  ISSUE  EARLY  •  ON  SALE  SEPTEMBER  S 


-_  PUBLISHED       MONTHLY      bv      Macfadden 

y8  m       Publications,    Inc.,    New  York,   N.   Y. 

"     EXECUTIVE,      ADVERTISING      AND      EDI- 
,  TORIAL      OFFICES      at     205      East     42nd 
'  Street,    New  York,   N.  Y.   Editorial   Branch 
.Office,    6269    Selma    Ave.,    Hollywood    28, 
r  Calif.     Irving     S.     Manheimer,     President; 
Lee      Andrews,      Vice     President;      Meyer 
*"OtO"      Dworkin,    Secretary  and  Treasurer.  Adver- 
tising offices   also    in   Chicago,    221    North 
La  Salle   Street,    and    San    Francisco. 

SUBSCRIPTION  RATES:  S3. 00  one  year,  U.  S.  and 
Possessions  and  Canada.  $5.00  per  year  for,  all  other 
countries. 

CHANGE  OF  ADDRESS:  6  weeks'  notice  essential. 
When  possible,  please  furnish  stencil  impression  ad- 
dress from  a  recent  issue.  Address  changes  can  be 
made  only  if  you  send  us  your  old,  as  well  as  your 
new  address.  Write  to  TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East 
42nd  Street,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 
MANUSCRIPTS:   All  manuscripts  will  be  carefully  con- 


sidered, but  publisher  cannot  be  responsible  for  loss  or 
damage.  It  is  advisable  to  keep  a  duplicate  copy  for 
your  records.  Only  those  manuscripts  accompanied  by 
stamped,  self-addressed  return  envelopes  or  with  suffi- 
cient return  postage  will  be  returned. 

FOREIGN  editions  handled  through  Macfadden  Publi- 
cations Internationa]  Corp.,  205  East  42nd  Street,  New 
York  17,  N.  Y.  Irving  S.  Manheimer,  President;  Doug- 
las I.ockhart,    Vice   President. 

RE-ENTERED  as  Second-Class  Matter,  June  28,  1954, 
at  the  Post  Office  at  New  York,  N.  Y.,  under  the  Act  of 
March  3,  1879.  Authorized  as  Second  Class  mail,  P.O. 
Dent.,  Ottawa,  Ont.,  Canada.  Copyright  1957  by  Mac- 
fadden Publications,  Inc.  All  rights  reserved  under  In- 
ternational Copvright  Convention.  All  rights  reserved 
under  Pan-American  Copyright  Convention.  Todos  de- 
rechos  reservarios  segun  la  Convencion  Pan-Americana 
de  Propiedad  Literaria  y  Artistica.  Title  trademark 
registered  in  U.S.  Patent  Office.  Printed  in  U.  S.  A. 
by    Art    Color   Printing    Company. 

Member  of  the  TRUE   STORY  Women's  Group. 


Was  She  Just  an  Innocent  Plantation 
...or  another  Scarlett  O'Hara? 

BEAUTIFUL  Lavinia  Winslow  lived  in  two  worlds,  the  bustling,  colorful 
world  of  a  Louisiana  plantation,  and  a  secret  world  of  passion  known 
only  to  herself  .  .  .  and  one  other!   She  had  become  the  bride  of  solid,  re- 
spectable Claude  Villac,  although  she  was  in  love  —  hopelessly,  she  thought  — 
with  Claude's  wild,   handsome  cousin,   Felix.   When  she  was  awakened  one 
evening  by  Felix's  ardent  kisses,  her 
carefully-built  double  life  threatened 
to  come  crashing  down!  Blue  Camell- 
ia,  Frances  Parkinson    Keyes'  new- 
est,  most   romantic   best-seller,   is  a 
thrilling  story  of  old  New  Orleans 
and  the  picturesque  bayou  country  — 
a   story   of   unforgettable   characters 
and  absorbing  drama!  Now  it's  yours 
to  choose  if  you  wish  in  this  amazing 
introductory  offer  to  new  members  of 
the  Dollar  Book  Club! 

any3 

OF  THESE  BEST-SELLERS 


AMY  VANDERBILT'S 
EVERYDAY  ETIQUETTE. 
Sensible  modern  guide  an- 
swers your  questions  about 
the  "correct  thing"  for  ev- 
ery social  occasion:  wed- 
dings, parties ;  dining  out ; 
social  correspondence,  etc 

COLUMBIA-VIKING  DESK 
ENCYCLOPEDIA.  2-vol- 
ume  edition!  1,440  pages, 
31,000  articles,  1,250,000 
words.  Up-to-date  answers 
to  questions  in  all  fields 
of  knowledge.  Illustrated. 

THE  CONQUERORS  WIFE 
—  Noel  B.  Gerson.  She 
tamed  the  fiercest  warrior 
in  Europe!  Lusty  romance 
of  William  the  Conqueror 
and  the  beautiful  Lady 
Matilda  of  Flanders. 

HANDY  HOME  MEDICAL 
ADVISER.  (Combined  with 
"Good  Housekeeping's" 
Pocket  Medical  Encyclope- 
dia). Edited  by  Dr.  Morris 
Fishbein.  Guide  to  health ; 
heart,  digestion,  allergies, 
dieting,  skin  disorders, 
glands,  tranquillizers,  new 
drugs,  etc.  416  pages. 

IMPERIAL  WOMAN-P«r/ 
S.  Buck's  newest  best- 
seller! Colorful  tale  about 
lovely  Tzu  Hsi,  the  amaz- 
ing concubine  who  used 
her  seductive  beauty  to  be- 
come Empress  of  all  China  ! 
Exotic  historical  romance. 


All  Are  Neur 
Full-Size, 

Hard-Bound 
Volumes! 


MARJORIE  MORNING- 
STAR—  Herman  Wouk  tops 
The  Caine  Mutiny  with  this 
modern  best-seller  about  a 
"nice  girl"  who  dreams  of 
fame— and  mixes  her  dream 
with  a  blazing  love  affair ! 

OUTLINE   OF   HISTORY— 

H.  G.  Wells.  Whole  dra- 
matic story  of  man  from 
earliest  times  to  the  mo- 
mentous events  of  our  own 
years!  200  maps,  illustra- 
tions. 1,024  pages.  Set 
counts  as  one  book. 

SWORD  AND  SCALPEL— 

Frank  G.  Slaughter.  Excit- 
ing story  of  an  Army  med- 
ic on  trial  for  treason  in 
Korea  and  the  beautiful 
girl  who  risked  everything 
to  stand  beside  him  ! 

THORNDIKE  -  BARNHART 
CONCISE      DICTIONARY. 

Up-to-date,  with  70,000 
entries,  600  pictures,  544 
pages.  Sections  on  gram- 
mar, punctuation,  other 
valuable  helps. 

USA  IN  COLOR— The  Ed- 
itors of  Holiday  take  you 
on  a  fabulous  "picture 
tour"  of  America's  scenic 
wonders  and  vacation- 
lands!  200  FULL  COLOR 
photos !  Big  new  8"  by 
lOVi"  volume. 


FORI 


VALUE  UP  TO  $20.45 


in  Publishers' 
Editions 


a  USA 

#very*f 


Amy 


when  you  join  the  Dollar  Book  Club 

and  agree  to  take  as  few  as  6  best-selling 

novels  out  of  24  offered  within  a  year 


THIS  amazing  introductory  offer  is  made 
to  demonstrate  the  wonderful  values 
you  enjoy  as  a  Dollar  Book  Club  member. 
Join  now  and  receive  any  3  of  the  full-size, 
hardbound  books  on  this  page  for  only  $1. 
Think  of  it  —  a  total  value  of  up  to  $20.45 
in  publishers'  editions  —  yours  for  just  $1. 

Save  Up  to  75%  on  New  Best-Sellers! 
Imagine  —  best-seller  selections  costing  up 
to  $3.95  in  publishers'  editions  come  to 
Club  members  for  only  $1  each!  Over  the 
years  the  biggest  hits  by  top  authors  like 
Daphne  du  Maurier,  Thomas  B.  Costain, 
Frank  Yerby  and  others  have  come  to  Club 
members  at  this  low  $1  price.  Occasionally, 
extra-value  selections  at  somewhat  higher 
prices  are  offered.  All  are  new,  full-size, 
hardbound  books.  Other  desirable  volumes, 
too,  are  offered  at  special  members'  prices 
which  save  you  up  to  75%.  But  you  buy 
only  the  books  you  want.  You  may  take  as 
few  as  six  $1  selections  a  year. 

Send  No  Money  —  Mail  Coupon! 
Receive  any  3  books  on  this  page  for  only  $1 
plus  a  small  shipping  charge.  Two  books  are 
your  gift  for  joining  and  one  is  your  first  se- 
lection. Thereafter  you  will  receive  the  Club's 
Bulletin  describing  forthcoming  selections. 

No-Risk    Guarantee:    If  not   delighted   with 
your  Three-Book  bargain  package,   return   all 
books  and  membership  will  be  cancelled.  Send 
no  money  —  just  mail  the  coupon  now! 
THE    DOLLAR   BOOK  CLUB,   GARDEN    CITY,   NEW   YORK 


*325 

IN  PUB. 
EDITION 


AIL  THIS  COUPON 

The  Dollar  Book  Club,  Dept.  9-TSG,  Garden  City,  New  York 
Enroll  me  as  a  Dollar  Book  Club  member.  Send  me  at  once  as 
my  gift  books  and  first  selection  the  3  books  checked  below  and 
bill  me  only  $1  FOR  ALL  3,  plus  a  small  shipping  charge. 


-T 


□  Imperial  Woman  (97) 

□  Marjorie  Morningstar  (83) 

□  Outline  of  History — set  (62) 
n  Sword  and  Scalpel  (126) 

D  Thorndike-Barnhart  Concise 

Dictionary  (71) 
DThe  USA  in  Color  (14) 


D  Amy  Vanderbilf  s  Everyday 
Etiquette  (90) 

O  Blue  Camellia  (79) 

D  Columbia-Viking  Desk 
Encyclopedia — set  (61) 

O  The  Conqueror's  Wife  (129) 

D  Handy  Home  Medical  Adviser  (75) 
Also  send  my  first  issue  of  The  Bulletin,  describing  the  new  forth 
coming  one-dollar  book  selections  and  other  bargains  for  members. 
I  may  notify  you  in  advance  if  I  do  not  wish  the  following  month's 
selections.  1  do  not  have  to  accept  a  book  every  month — only  six  a 
year.  I  pay  nothing  except  $1  for  each  selection  I  accept  (plus  a 
small  shipping  charge)   unless  I  choose  an  extra-value  selection. 
NO-RISK   GUARANTEE:  If  not  delighted  return  all 
books   in   7    days    and   membership  will   be  cancelled. 
Mr. 
Mrs. 
Miss 

Address 

City 

&  Zone State 

TO  RESIDENTS  OF  CANADA:  Selection  price  $1.10  plus  shipping; 

address  Doubleday  Book  Club   (Canada),  105  Bond  St.,  Toronto  2. 

L  Offer  good  in  U.S.  and  Canada  onlyi 

■  ■■  ■»■  mm  ■■  mm  ■■  ■■■■  ■■  mm  n  ■■■■■■  ma  am  jbbm  bh  m  J 


Please 
•  Print 


WHAT'S  NEW  ON  THE  EAST 


By  PETER  ABBOTT 


Schoolteacher  Dorothy  Olsen  named  that  tune  and  hit  the  jackpot 
— a  long-term  pact  for  Bandstand  with  Skitch  Henderson,  Bert  Parks. 


When  Peter,  the  pride  of  Candy  and  Hal  March, 
grows  up,  he  can  see  Dad's  new  movie  as  a  TV  oldie. 


My  million-dollar  guy,  says  newlywed 
Lynn  Dollar  of  husband  Doug  Rodgers. 


For  What's  New  On 
The  West  Coast,  See  Page  H 


Love,  Anyone?  Lovely  Janette  Davis 
is  prettier  than  ever,  wearing  that  dia- 
mond rock  in  the  Tiffany  setting.  The 
lucky  guy,  Frank  Musiello,  is  one  of 
Godfrey's  exec-producers.  Frank  and 
Jan  have  been  working  closely  since 
she  became  producer  of  Talent  Scouts. 
Matter  of  fact,  they've  had  adjoining 
offices,  but  no  one  knew  that  Cupid 
was  playing  the  office  boy.  Jan  will 
get  married  without  flourish  and  sud- 
denly. "Right  now,"  says  Jan,  "I'm 
just  getting  used  to  being  engaged. 
It's  such  a  wonderful  feeling,  I  want 
to  hang  onto  it  for  a  while."  .  .  .  And 
Joyce  Van  Patten,  who  plays  Janice 
Turner  in  As  The  World  Turns,  is 
likely  any  time  to  up  and  marry  Marty 
Balsam,  Gablish-looking  actor  who's 
been  in  such  productions  as  "Middle 
of  the  Night,"  "Twelve  Angry  Men," 
"Waterfront,"  etc.  Joyce,  herself,  is 
kind  of  wedded  to  the  theater.  Her 
mother,  Jo  Van  Patten,  is  a  theatrical 
agent,  and  her  brother  Dick  has  a 
featured  part  in  TV's  Mama  series. 
Twenty-two-year-old  Joyce  has  been 
honored  with  the  Donaldson  Award 
for  Broadway  performances.  Present- 
ly, she  is  in  the  hit,  "A  Hole  in  the 
Head,"  as  a  sexy  wench  who  unnerves 
Paul    Douglas.    This    month,    around 


Manhattan,  she  begins  work  in  a  new 
Paddy  Chayefsky  movie.  Busy,  yes, 
but  about  the  time  leaves  begin  turn- 
ing, bells  should  be  ringing  for  Marty 
and  Joyce.  .  .  .  And  should  we  men- 
tion that  Tommy  Sands  and  cute  Ann 
Leonardo,  both  Californians,  met  in 
New  York  and  then  had  dinner  to- 
gether? More  than  once.  "Strictly 
social-business,"  Ann  says  and  adds 
that  her  kind-of-steady  boyfriend  is 
a  medical  student  from  back  home  in 
Fresno.  Tommy's  semi-steady  con- 
tinues to  be  Molly  Bee,  which  he  has 
confirmed  with  a  double-diamond 
friendship  ring.  (Note:  Tommy  will 
be  twenty  on  August  27th.  Bet  he's 
married  before  he's  twenty-one.) 

Quick  Passes:  The  new  Art  Carney 
comedy  series  has  Art  as  a  bachelor 
harried  by  mommy.  ...  As  stated 
before,  Pat  Boone  does  not  give  up 
easily.  Father  of  three  li'l  gals,  he's 
hoping  the  fourth,  due  late  Febru- 
ary, will  be  male.  .  .  .  TV's  Paul  Win- 
chell,  along  with  his  sawdust  cronies, 
has  recorded  a  delightful  new  musical 
version  of  "Pinocchio"  for  Decca.  .  .  . 
And  Paul's  close  friend,  Dennis 
James,  is  trying  to  sell  a  TV  show 
titled,    What    Makes    You    Tick?,    in 


COAST 


which  studio  viewers  volunteer  to 
undergo  a  series  of  questions  and  tests 
for  bravery,  intelligence,  etc.  .  .  .  Good 
prospects  for  a  regular  Billy  Graham 
TV  show  this  season.  .  .  .  And  good- 
looking  Janet  Blair  negotiating  to  do 
specs  since  demise  of  Caesar  show. 
.  .  .  Terry  O'Sullivan,  Jan  Miner's 
spouse,  being  considered  for  singing 
lead  in  Broadway  musical.  .  .  .  And 
Jayne  Meadows  asks  for  plug  for  new 
Coral  cooky  by  the  McGuire  Sisters, 
titled,  "But  I  Haven't  Got  Him." 
Lyrics  are  by  Jayne's  husband,  Steve 
Allen.  Who's  him? 

Bashful  Buster :  He's  got  curly  brown 
hair,  baby-blue  eyes  and  he's  Casey 
Tibbs,  27-year-old  world's  champion 
bronco-buster.  Casey  stars  in  Gen- 
eral Mills'  big  televised  rodeo  over 
CBS-TV  on  September  14th.  A  shy 
bachelor,  Casey,  since  the  age  of  ten, 
has  been  taming  colts  that  act  as  if 
they're  full  of  Sugar  Jets.  He  has 
earned  over  $250,000  in  prize  money 
which  he  has  put  into  Lincoln  auto- 
mobiles and  joyful  living.  He  played 
himself  opposite  Brandon  de  Wilde 
on  Screen  Directors'  Playhouse,  was 
so  good  that  he  was  called  back  to 
make  a  pilot  film  for  a  new  TV  series, 
Indian  Scout.  With  a  past  that  in- 
cludes ten,  broken  ribs,  a  thrice- 
cracked  ankle,  fractured  jaw  and 
mangled  shoulder  ligament,  Casey  is 
getting  ready  to  settle  down.  He 
bought  himself  a  ranch  of  seven  thou- 
sand acres  (kind  of  garden-size)  for 
a  beginning  at  Mission  Ridge,  South 
Dakota,  and  is  lacking  only  a  haus- 
frau.  So  case  Casey  and  remember 
he's  very  shy. 

Million-dollar  Guy:  Lynn  Dollar, 
beautiful  hostess  on  $64,000  Question 
and  Weather  Gal  for  New  York's 
WRCA-TV,  was  reported  around 
town  with  Vic  Mature,  Pete  Forestall, 
Vince  Scully,  etc.,  but  turned  tables 
on  them  all  and  married  Doug  Rodg- 
ers  on  July  14.  Doug,  an  actor,  has 
worked  on  Matinee  Theater,  Chey- 
enne. Says  Lynn,  "He  is  a  million- 
dollar  guy — tall,  dark,  very  handsome 
and  very  talented."  Doug  has  a  six- 
three  physique  that  was  voted  the 
best  in  his  graduating  class  at  An- 
napolis. Since  leaving  the  Navy,  Doug 
has  worked  as  radio  and  TV  producer 
and  director,  then  played  a  lead  in 
"Plain  and  Fancy."  He  began  courting 
Lynn  better  than  a  year  ago.  Says 
Lynn,  "We  knew  we  were  serious 
when  we  began  to  speculate  about  the 
kind  of  kids  we  might  have  since  both 
of  us  have  Indian  blood.  Doug's  is 
Penobscot  and  mine's  Sioux."  Lynn, 


Songbird  Janette  Davis,  now  Talent  Scouts  producer,  only  had  to  look  as  far  as 
an  adjoining  office  to  find  romance  with  Frank  Musiello,  who's  a  Godfreyite,  too. 


born  Florence  Anderson,  has  two  am- 
bitions— to  be  an  Arlene  Francis-type 
femcee  and  make  a  good  home.  "I  like 
informality  and  will  furnish  in  'early 
nothing'!"  And  she  wants  babies. 
"Children  don't  interfere  much  with 
a  TV  career,"  she  notes.  "All  you 
have  to  do  is  raise  the  camera  and  no 
one  but  the  studio  crew  knows  that 
you're  pregnant." 

Summer  Stew:  Barry  Sullivan  got 
himself  a  good  way  to  make  a  living. 
Barry  stars  in  the  prime  new  series, 
Harbourmaster,  which  replaces  Bob 
Cummings'  show  on  NBC -TV  next 
month,  with  R.  J.  Reynolds  as  sponsor. 
The  sequences  are  being  shot  off  the 
beautiful  coast  of  Gloucester,  Mass., 
on  a  30-foot  boat.  .  .  .  And,  speaking  of 
making  hay  in  the  sunshine,  Victor 
Borge  bought  himself  a  piece  of  Den- 
mark that  includes  a  castle  and  15,000 
apple  trees.  Meanwhile,  at  his  Con- 
necticut poultry  farm,  he  has  devel- 
oped a  new  product  called  "Mink's 
Mix."  It's  an  animal  food  and,  if  you 
can't  afford  to  buy  a  mink  stole,  you 
might  consider  buying  Victor's  prod- 
uct and  do-it-yourself.  .  .  .  Madeleine 
Carroll  returns  from  her  Spanish 
castle  end  of  this  month  and  goes  live 


again  on  NBC's  Affairs  Of  Dr.  Gentry. 
She  bought  her  castle  during  the 
Spanish  Civil  War  and  everyone 
thought  she  was  crazy,  expecting  the 
government  would  confiscate  it,  but 
they  didn't.  Every  summer  she  and 
her  husband  spend  six  weeks  in  the 
castle.  Her  moat  is  a  mere  two-and- 
a-half  miles  of  Mediterranean. 

That  Jones  Boy:  Dean  of  the  Jones 
Boys,  M-G-M  recording  and  movie 
artist,  is  a  test  case.  He's  their  first 
star  to  get  a  video  build-up  and 
M-G-M  has  contracted  with  NBC  for 
Dean  to  make  a  half-dozen  appear- 
ances this  year.  That  accounts  for  his 
guesting  with  Dinah  and  Steve.  Ed 
Sullivan  first  tried  to  get  Dean,  but 
then  M-G-M  was  nixing  TV.  Visiting 
Manhattan,  Dean  talked  frankly  about 
why  he  gave  up  the  ministry.  "I  didn't 
feel  that  I  had  the  call.  I  enjoyed 
preaching  as  a  lay  minister.  I  would 
have  been  the  seventh  generation  of 
preachers,  but  I  couldn't  feel  fervent 
about  it.  It  was  really  singing  that  I 
wanted  to  do."  Dean,  tall  and  hand- 
some, is  prime  star  material.  You  have 
seen  or  can  see  him  in  the  films  "Tea 
and  Sympathy,"  "Ten  Thousand  Bed- 
rooms" and,   (Continued  on  page  7) 


el 

G 


Three  to  make  merry — Steven,  Norm  and  Joan — the  Tulins   build    boats   and,   come   summer,    sail    'em. 


Anyone  who  knows 
beans  about  Boston 
knows  that  WORUs 
Norm  Tulin  is  tops 


SPINNING  AROUND 

The  boss  thinks  I'm  a  wit,"  shrugs  Norm  Tulin,  "and  who's  to  argue 
with  the  boss?"   Nobody  argues — least  of  all  the  pleased-as-punch 
Pilgrims  who  tune  in  to  Norm  daily  from  6  to  9  A.M.   on  Boston's 
Station  WORL.  They  get  an  earful  of  the  aforementioned  "wit,"  as 
well  as  what  Norm  calls  "music  to  needle  the  noodle."    This  is  perhaps 
best  explained  as  "standards"  or  the  new  instrumental  by  the  bands 
of  Count  Basie,  Dick  Maltby,  Ralph  Marterie,  Percy  Faith  and  Hugo 
Winterhalter.     When  words  are  put  to  the  music,   Norm  likes  them 
sung  by   Frank  Sinatra,  Kay  Starr   or  Patti  Page.    He's  also  receptive 
to  the  newer  sounds  being  made  by  such  groups  as  the  Hi-Lo's  and  the 
Conley  Graves  Trio.  .  .  .  Norm's  work  never  becomes  "humdrum" 
to  him — or  his  listeners.    He  was  the  first  deejay  to  do  an  international 
record  hop.     Norm  accomplished  this  when  a   small  Piper  Clipper 
flew  him,  his  records,  and  Jerry  Vale  to  Halifax,  Nova  Scotia,  to  do  the 
first  record  hop  at  the  Dalhousie  University   gymnasium.     In  the 
same  Piper  Clipper,  Norm  did  the  first  record  hop  from  an  airplane. 
This  was  last  July,  when  he  broadcast  from  the  plane,  buzzing  the 
beaches  of  Cape  Cod  and  answering  record  requests  written  out  on 
the  sand.  .  .  .  Norm's  career  may  find  him  flying  high  now,  but  it  all 
began  with  his  feet  firmly  planted  on  a  platform  at  an  American  Legion 
Oratorical   Contest  which  Norm  won  when  he   was   a  high-school 
senior  in  Hartford,  Connecticut.     This  was  the   "spark,"   says  Norm, 
who  went  on  from  there  to  major  in  speech  at  Emerson  College.  He 
won  an  A.B.  degree  in  1951,  then  spent  two  years  with  the  Army  Signal 
Corps.  In  Korea,  he  was  officer-in-charge  of  Radio  Seoul.  .  .  .  While 
at  Emerson  College,  Norm  attended  a  sociology  class  and  heard  a  pretty 
speech-therapy  major  deliver  a  lecture  on  the  male  animal.    Happy 
to  find  someone  who  understood  him,  and  also  looked  that  good,  Norm 
married  Joan  three  years  ago.     They  have  an  heir  named  Steven 
Randy,  and  Norm  reports  that  he  inherits  Joan's  good  looks  and  that 
the  timbre  of  his  one-year-old  wail  is  appreciated  by  everyone  in 
their  Wellesley  Hills,  Massachusetts  neighborhood.    The  Tulins  have 
a  seven-room,  split-level  ranch  house  and  Norm  has  been  spending 
much  of  his  spare  time  finishing  off  the  pine-paneled  basement  play- 
room. When  not  thus  engaged,  his  hobby  is  building  small  speedboats 
and  sailing  larger  sailboats.     On  land,  on  the  sea  or  in  the  air,  Norm 
Tulin  is  undeniably  a  wit.   So  who's  arguing? 


?ia 


■H 


w 


WHAT'S  NEW— EAST 

(Continued  jrom  page  5) 


to  come,  "The  Boy  Friend."  His  latest 
M-G-M  recording,  an  exciting  one,  is  the 
theme  from  the  movie,  "Gunsight  Ridge," 
and  it  is  Dean  you  also  hear  on  the  sound- 
track. Dean  has  a  very  beautiful  wife,  a 
runner-up  for  title  of  Miss  California,  and 
two  very  young  daughters.  While  travel- 
ing, Dean  writes  home  daily.  He  says, 
openly,  "I  write  every  day  because  I  can't 
afford  long-distance  phone  calls.  Every- 
thing is  so  expensive  I've  got  to  be  thrifty 
in  some  ways." 

Mr.  M  &  Mr.  M:  Hal  and  Garry  are  two 
of  the  nicest  guys  in  the  business.  Both 
are  old  acquaintances  from  California 
Gold  Rush  Days  when  Mr.  Moore  teamed 
with  Durante  and  Mr.  March  with 
Sweeney.  Every  once  in  a  while,  their 
paths  cross.  For  example,  Garry  turned 
down  $64,000  Question  before  Hal  even 
auditioned  for  the  show.  Garry  was  doing 
so  well  with  the  morning  stanza  that  he 
didn't  feel  he  needed  the  quiz.  Hal,  how- 
ever, was  just  making  the  transition  from 
radio  to  TV.  $64,000  Etc.  fit  him  like  a 
glove  and,  just  being  himself,  he  was  an 
overnight  sensation.  This  month,  Hal  re- 
turns from  Hollywood  after  making  a 
movie,  "Hear  Me  Good,"  and  he  will  sub 
for  Garry  all  of  August  as  emcee  of  Tve 
Got  A  Secret,  in  addition  to  doing  $64,  etc. 
Hal  moves  into  his  rented  home  in  New 
Rochelle  and  is  delighted  to  get  back.  He 
wasn't  very  pleased  to  be  separated  from 
Candy  just  a  couple  of  weeks  after  his 
first  baby  arrived.  The  baby,  Peter 
Lindsey,  delivered  by  $64,000-winner  Dr. 
Francis  Salvatore,  weighed  in  at  five 
pounds  and  thirteen  ounces.  Hal  was  so 
thrilled  he  presented  Candy  with  an  un- 
usual gold  charm.  It  is  a  gold  carving  of 
Candy  holding  the  baby  in  her  arms.  The 
charm  is  circled  with  freshwater  pearls 
and  inscribed,  "Darling,  we  love  you  and 
thank  you,  Peter  and  Daddy." 

Clipping  Along:  Como's  big  problem  on 
vacation  is  keeping  his  weight  down.  .  .  . 
Perry's  sub,  Julie  La  Rosa,  keeps  his  black 
Caddy  purring  at  the  stage  door  so  he  and 
Rory  can  head  out  to  his  parents'  beach 
home.  .  .  .  Milton  Berle  wants  $52,000 
for  his  new  half-hour  comedy  series. 
That's  $52,000  for  each  week's  episode.  .  .  . 
Patti  Page  gets  $30,000  a  week  to  spend 
for  singers  on  The  Big  Record  when  it 
preems  next  month.  .  .  .  Hal  Holbrook, 
who  plays  Grayfing  Dennis  of  The  Brighter 
Day,  journeys  to  Hannibal,  Missouri,  late 
this  month  to  do  his  famed  impersonation 
of  Mark  Twain  on  Tom  Sawyer  Day.  .  .  . 
Wonderful  success  story  is  that  of  Dorothy 
Olsen,  schoolteacher  and  Name  That  Tune 
winner  in  1955.  With  no  pro  experience, 
she  cut  a  couple  kid  records  for  RCA 
Victor,  made  appearances  on  Ding  Dong 
School,  then,  this  past  spring,  joined 
Skitch  Henderson  and  Bert  Parks  on 
NBC's  Bandstand.  She  has  so  ingratiated 
herself  with  the  public  that,  this  June, 
NBC  gave  her  a  long-term  contract.  "And 
with  so  little  fanfare,"  she  says.  "I  just 
got  a  phone  call  and  was  told,  'You've 
been  with  us  since  March  and  we'd  like 
to  keep  you  around  and  want  to  negotiate 
a  year's  contract  with  you.' "  And  that's 
how  success  came  to  Dorothy  Olsen. 


Watch   for 

October  TV  RADIO  MIRROR 

on  sale  September  5 


More  grown-ups  and  growing-ups 

depend  on  Mum  than  on  any  other  deodorant 


J* 


JCT  OP   BRISTOL-MYERS 


New 


(MUM 


stops  odor... 
without  irritation 


So  gentle  for  any  normal  skin  you  can  use  it  every  day 


If  you've  ever  worried  about  under- 
arm stinging  or  burning  from  using 
a  deodorant  daily— or  right  after  shav- 
ing or  a  hot  bath— you  can  set  your 
mind  at  ease.  New  Mum  Cream  is  so 
gentle  for  normal  skin,  you  can  use 
it  whenever  you  please. 

Mum  Cream  gives  you  the  kind 
of  protection  you  can't  possibly  get 
from  any  other  leading  deodorant— 
because  it  works  a  completely  differ- 
ent way.  Mum  Cream  is  the  only 
leading    deodorant   that   works   en- 


tirely by  stopping  odor  .  .  .  contains 
no  astringent  aluminum  salts.  And  it 
keeps  on  working  actively  to  stop 
odor  24  hours  a  day  with  M-3  — 
Mum's  wonderful  hexachlorophene 
that  destroys  both  odor  and  odor- 
causing  bacteria!  When  Mum  is  so 
effective  —  yet  so  safe  — isn't  it  the 
deodorant  for  you?  Try  new  Mum 
Cream  today. 


MUM  "contains  M-3  (IS^SE?) 

. . .  stops  odor  24  hours  a  day 


One  word  from  Fred  and  the  mail  pours  in.    Promoting  a 
clock-radio  giveaway,  he  heard  from  some  75,000  listeners. 


He  snubs  the  idea  of 

a  smash  success,  but  Fred  Fiske 

of  WWDC  has  gone 

From  Borsht 
to  Caviar 


When  Dame  Fortune  winked  a  mascaraed  eye, 
Fred  Fiske  played  hard  to  get.  "I  don't  want 
to  be  a  smash  success,"  Fred  announced  when  he 
was  promoted  to  his  own  deejay  shows  on  Wash- 
ington's Station  WWDC.  "I  merely  want  to  be  a 
pleasant  guy  to  be  with  every  day.  There  are  guys 
in  radio  and  television  who  are  great  big  hits. 
Then  they  die.  I'd  rather  be  the  guy  who  lasts." 
.  .  .  That  was  three  years  ago  and  Fred  seems  to 
have  had  it  both  ways — in  a  lasting  success.  He's 
heard  Monday  through  Saturday  from  10  to  noon 
on  The  Fred  Fiske  Show  and  from  1  to  4  P.M.  on 
Club  1260.  For  the  time  periods  he's  on,  he's  rated 
Number  One  deejay  in  the  capital  and  he's  rated, 
too,  in  Pulse's  Top  Ten  Daytime  Shows.  .  .  .  Fred's 
earliest  ambition  was  to  be  a  schoolteacher  and 
he  believes  he  hasn't  strayed  very  far  afield.  "The 
kids  listen  to  their  favorite  platter  spinners  more 
and  for  longer  hours  than  they  listen  to  their 
teachers,"  he  explains.  "And,  by  indirection,  a 
radio  performer  must  help  mold  the  personality  of 
the  younger  generation."  .  .  .  Fred  has  made  the 
full  circuit  from  borsht  to  caviar,  with  a  stopover 
at  the  martini  avenue  known  as  Madison.  At  thirty- 
six,  he's  an  "old  timer"  in  show  business.  He  got 
an  early  start  when,  at  the  age  of  fifteen,  he  took 
a  summer  job  as  a  stagehand  in  a  Catskill  Moun- 
tain resort.  Before  the  month  was  out,  he  was  on 
stage  as  a  straight  man  to  such  young  and  "un- 
known" comics  as  Danny  Kaye,  Red  Buttons, 
Henny  Youngman  and  Gene  Baylos,  all  of  whom 
were  working  for  eats  and  experience.  Actors 
have  to  be  versatile  in  the  Borsht  Belt  and  the 
teen-age  Fred  also  found  himself  playing  an  Army 
general  in  a  production  of  Irwin  Shaw's  "Bury 
the  Dead."  ...  At  summer's  end,  he  combined 
studies  at  Brooklyn's  Lincoln  High  School  with 
roles  in  such  daytime  dramas  as  Young  Dr.  Malone, 


Politicos   or   performers,    Fred    has    shared    his    mike    with 
most  of  them.  Here,  he  chats  with  actor-singer  Tab  Hunter. 


Teenagers  crowded  the  studio  to  celebrate  Fred's  sixth 
birthday  on  WWDC.  He  has  an  Old  Timers  Club,  too. 


Perry  Mason  and  Just  Plain  Bill.  He  continued  his 
radio  work  while  he  earned  a  B.A.  in  Speech  and 
Education  at  Brooklyn  College.  After  service  in 
the  Air  Force,  he  taught  speech  at  his  old  alma 
mater,  Lincoln  High,  eai-ned  an  M.A.  in  Speech  at 
Columbia  University's  Teachers  College,  and  re- 
turned to  radio.  It  was  the  time  when  "returning 
veteran"  plays  were  all  over  the  dial  and  Fred 
played  these  roles  on  many  of  the  top  shows. 
When  the  vogue  died  out,  Fred  found  that  he  was 
typed.  He  decided  to  stay  out  of  drama  until 
producers  could  forget  him  as  a  "returning  vet- 
eran." .  .  .  He  landed  a  radio  job  in  Lexington, 
Kentucky,  and  was  returning  from  there  to  New 
York  in  1947  when  he  stopped  off  in  Washington 
for  one  day.  "Just  for  kicks,"  he  took  auditions  at 
three  stations  and  found  himself  with  three  job 
offers  as  an  announcer.  He  took  the  one  with  WOL 
and,  when  WWDC  purchased  that  station's  oper- 
ation, he  and  morning-man  Art  Brown  were  the 
only  two  personalities  they  kept  on.  Fred  was 
heard  on  Reporters'  Roundup,  mangled  the  Eng- 
lish language  as  the  Capitol  Hillbilly,  and  then 
launched  his  record  shows.  .  .  .  Much  in  demand 
as  an  emcee  and  toastmaster,  Fred  avoids  com- 
mercial events  and  appears  free  of  charge  at 
legitimate  public  service  and  civic  functions.  "I 
make  my  living  through  radio,"  he  says,  "and  it 
would  be  indecent  to  charge  people  who  are  kind 
to  me."  .  .  .  Fred  and  his  wife  Ruth  have  two 
children,  Peggy,  3,  and  Warren,  2.  Peggy's  the 
first  to  react  to  her  father's  occupation  and  can  be 
heard  explaining  to  playmates  "how  Daddy  fits 
into  the  radio  in  the  car."  Striking  proof  of  Fred's 
"success"  is  the  Fiskes'  brick  Colonial  home  in 
Chevy  Chase,  Maryland.  The  house  features  five 
bedrooms  and  an  equal  number  of  baths.  Grins 
Fred,  "Brooklyn  was  never  like  this." 


If  this   be   success,   then    Fred,    his    wife    Ruth    and    young 
piggy-back  riders  Peggy  and  Warren  make  the  most  of  it. 


WHAT'S  NEW  ON  THE  WEST  COAST 


By  BUD  GOODE 


Lassie    meets   Jon    Provost,    a    seven- 
year-old   "veteran"   who'll   join   show. 


Ernie  and    Betty   Ford   enjoy  a   night 
out  just  before  pop  got  the  measles! 


10 


For    fan-clubbers,    the    arrow    wasn't 
Michael   Ansara's   or  John    Lupton's. 


News  Beat:  Molly  Bee,  17-year-old, 
plays  her  first  love  scene  with  hand- 
some young  Rod  McKuen  in  Univer- 
sal-International's "Summer  Love."  Is 
it  summer  love?  When  Tommy  Sands 
returned  after  four  weeks  of  knock- 
ing 'em  dead  at  New  York's  Roxy 
Theater,  he  gave  Molly  a  "friendship" 
ring.  She  wears  it  on  the  pinky  of 
her  left  hand.  "Friendship  Ring,"  a 
good  title  for  a  love  song?  .  .  .  Speak- 
ing of  singing,  Hugh  O'Brian  has 
recorded  his  first  album  for  the  ABC- 
Paramount  label,  "Wyatt  Earp  Sings." 
After  the  session,  Hugh  was  nervous, 
didn't  like  the  way  he  sounded.  But 
press  agent  Joe  Hoenig  says,  "Wyatt, 
I  mean  Hugh,  is  really  good.  I  was 
pleasantly  surprised."  Actor-dancer- 
singer  O'Brian  can  now  be  billed  as 
the  baritone  with  the  fastest  draw.  .  .  . 
For  the  first  time  in  fifteen  years,  Eve 
Arden  changed  the  color  of  her  hair — 
to  red.  It's  for  her  new  video  series, 
which  of  course  is  in  black  and  white. 

On  the  Links:  Art  Linkletter's  son 
Jack  has  set  the  date,  December  21, 
when  he  and  young  UCLA  physical  - 
education  major,  Bobbie  Hughes,  will 
wed.  Meantime,  Jack  is  continuing 
on  his  dad's  CBS-TV  and  Radio 
House  Party  show,  Bobbie  coaches 
the  kids  at  Griffith  Park,  and  both  are 
in  Prof.  Peterson's  marriage  class.  .  .  . 
Art  recently  returned  from  his  vaca- 
tion and  trip  to  the  Far  East.  While 
in  Japan  he  and  Lois  didn't  stay  at  the 
more  standard  tourist  hotel.  Instead, 
they  picked  a  small  Japanese  hotel 
where  the  custom  is  to  remove  shoes 
when  entering  the  lobby.  Practical- 
minded  Art  took  the  idea  home — three 
pairs  of  shoes  belonging  to  the  three 
youngest  Links — Robert,  Sharon  and 
Dianne — now  rest  on  the  back  porch. 
Says  Art,  "Keeps  the  carpet  clean." 
.  .  .  Next  season,  Art,  with  producer 
John  Guedel,  will  do  six  specs  for 
CBS,  to  be  called  "People  and  Places." 
One  will  deal  with  all  those  wonderful 
millionaires  down  Dallas  way.  Which 
reminds  Art  of  the  gag  about  the  poor 
Texan  who  owned  only  30  acres — the 
heart  of  Houston. 

Doctors'  Dilemmas:  Concussion  is 
not  the  title  of  a  new  TV  series,  but  a 
near-tragedy  for  pretty  Kathy  Nolan 
who  appears  in  the  new  ABC -TV  se- 
ries, The  Real  McCoys.  While  filming 
one  of  the  shows  with  star  Walter 
Brennan,  Kathy  made  a  hasty  exit, 
ran  into  a  prop  door,  found  it  was  the 
real  McCoy.  Kathy's  pretty  head  hit 
the  concrete  floor  with  a  loud  crash. 
She  spent  the  next  ten  days  at  Cedars 
of  Lebanon  Hospital.  Happy  to  report, 
Kathy   is   back    on   the    job — with   a 

healthy  respect  for  all  "prop"  doors 

Tennessee  Ernie  thought  his  young 
son    Buck    was    about    to    catch    the 


measles  from  younger  son  Brion.  To 
lessen  the  impact  of  each  little  measle, 
Ernie  and  wife  Betty  took  Buck  to 
the  doctor  for  a  shot  of  gamma  globu- 
lin. Buck  howled;  but  it  was  worth  it 
— he  never  broke  out.  Just  before  his 
vacation — Ernie  did. 

Cupid's  Unbroken  Arrow:  Hugh 
O'Brian  publishes  a  Wyatt  Earp 
newspaper  avidly  read  by  his  fans. 
Each  issue  contains  a  rundown  on 
some  other  Western  star.  Recently, 
features  have  appeared  about  Clint 
Cheyenne  Walker  and  John  Lupton, 
star  of  Broken  Arrow.  Somehow,  as  a 
result  of  the  Lupton  story,  the  presi- 
dent of  his  fan  club,  Roy  St.  John, 
met  the  president  of  Hugh  O'Brian's 
fan  club,  Irene  Jackson.  They  found 
they  had  much  more  in  common  than 
fan  club  presidencies  and,  after  a 
brief  courtship,  were  married!  Seems 
Cupid  shoots  straight,  too.  .  .  .  Speak- 
ing of  John  Lupton,  he  and  his  wife 
Anne  are  about  to  buy  their  first 
home  in  picturesque  Mandeville  Can- 
yon. What's  holding  them  back?  The 
baby-sitter  problem.  In  their  present 
apartment,  neighbor  Beverly  Gar- 
land has  developed  into  an  ace,  num- 
ber-one sitter  and  they're  reluctant  to 
give  her  up.  Recently,  John  and  Anne 
celebrated  their  first  wedding  anni- 
versary, combined  with  the  celebra- 
tion of  their  first  night  out  since 
Rollin  was  born.  Naturally,  Beverly 
was  the  sitter.  Everybody  had  a  ball, 
including  Beverly,  who  dearly  loves 
little  Rollin  and  who  would  hate  to 
see  the  Luptons  move.  Answer  to  the 
moving  problem:  Beverly  will  be 
buying  a  lot  in  Mandeville  Canyon. 

Business  and  Pleasure:  Tony  Cur- 
tis, bearded  for  a  movie  role,  visited 
London's  Palladium  to  congratulate 
Eddie  Fisher  on  his  third  triumphant 
return  there.  Eddie  and  spouse  Deb- 
bie Reynolds  subsequently  toured  Eu- 
rope on  a  talent  search  for  musical 
artists  and  novelties  for  his  hour-long 
NBC-TV  show  this  fall.  One  of  the 
big  prizes  they've  come  up  with  is 
Dickie  Valentine,  a  very  popular 
British  singer.  .  .  .  Lawrence  Welk 
went  to  England  and  the  Continent, 
where  he'll  do  some  thinking  about 
bringing  back  a  new  show  called 
Music  For  Teenagers,  and  the  details 
for  an  international  dance  contest — 
with  winners  to  come  to  his  Aragon 
Ballroom  for  a  dance-off.  If  this  in- 
ternational idea  is  as  successful  as 
his  Saturday-night  waltz  contests,  he 
could  help  raise  the  iron  curtain  in 
three-quarter  time.  .  .  .  David  Niven 
also  in  Europe,  combining  vacation 
with  a  role  in  the  film  "Bonjour  Tris- 
tesse."  Then  it's  back  to  join  Jane 
Powell,  Charles  Boyer,  Robert  Ryan 
and  Jack  Lemmon  in  the  new  half- 


In  London,  bearded  Tony  Curtis  visits 
Eddie  Fisher  and  Dickie  Valentine,  a 
singer    Eddie   will    import   for   fall    TV. 


hour  Alcoa-Goody  ear  Playhouse,  or 
should  we  say  "Five-Star  Theater"? 

Casting:  Hundreds  of  youngsters 
were  auditioned  before  seven-year- 
old  Jon  Provost  was  chosen  to  play 
the  role  of  "Timmy,"  a  new  character 
to  be  introduced  in  the  fall  Lassie  se- 
ries. Blond  and  blue-eyed,  Jon  is 
forty -four  inches  tall  and  weighs 
thirty-nine  pounds.  His  four  months 
in  Japan  recently  marked  the  com- 
pletion of  his  tenth  movie  role. 
Continuing  in  the  Lassie  cast  are 
fourteen-year-old  Tommy  Rettig,  Jan 
Clayton  and  George  Cleveland.  But, 
after  the  first  thirteen  episodes,  Tom- 
my and  Jan  will  probably  be  retired 
for  a  new  set  of  characters  built 
around  young  Jon.  Lassie,  of  course, 
remains.  .  .  .  Elvis  Presley  casts  Dean 
Martin  as  his  favorite  singer;  Dean 
Martin  says  Sinatra  is  his  favorite 
singer;  Sinatra  says  Pat  Boone  is  the 
best  of  the  new  crop;  and  Boone  likes 
Presley.  They  go  round  'n'  round, 
but  where's  Como? 

Incidental  Intelligence :  Dinah  Shore 
was  a  star  fencer  at  Vanderbilt  Uni- 
versity. Dinah  goes  to  the  Akron 
Soapbox  Derby  this  summer.  Does 
she  expect  a  Chevrolet  to  win?  Mean- 
while, back  at  her  new  home,  Dinah 
is  building  in  a  rehearsal  hall — so  she 
can  be  closer  to  her  children  while 
working  on  the  series  of  20  shows  she 
has  planned  for  next  season.  .  .  . 
When  maestro  Lawrence  Welk  want- 
ed to  find  out  what  little  Janet  Len- 
non  wanted  for  her  birthday,  he 
asked  Alice  Lon  to  see  if  she  could 
cadge  the  answer,  quote,  ".  .  .  with- 
out being  snoopish."  .  .  .  The  Thalians, 
a  group  of  young  Hollywood  people 
taken  from  all  the  industry  trades, 
have  joined  together  to  see  what  they 
can  do  to  help  the  mentally  ill,  espe- 
cially children.  Under  the  guidance 
of  the  newly-elected  president,  Deb- 
bie Reynolds,  vice-president  Buddy 
Bregman,  and  secretary  Sammy 
Davis,  Jr.,  they  recently  voted  $5,000 
of  their  hard-earned  money  to  help 
disturbed  children  at  Halfway  House. 
That's  the  heart  of  Hollywood. 

For  What's  New  On 
The  East  Coast  See  Page  4 


DAZZLING  DISCOVERY 


w        *** 


NEW  .ALL  NEW  GUTEX 

Brilliant  as  diamonds^  radiant  as  rubies 
this  amazing  NEW  FORMULA  that  wears 
longest  of  any  nail  polish  at  any  price! 


Now!  An  exclusive  "jewel-smooth"  finish  that 

completely  resists  chipping,  peeling.  Based  on  a 

fabulous  new  formula  made  with  miracle  Enam- 

elon,  new  Cutex  is  the  longest  wearing  nail  polish 

ever  known! 

Applies  in  a  flash !  New  all-nylon  brush  applies 

smoothly,  evenly.  You  get  a  perfect  manicure  in 

minutes. 

Priceless  protection!  Exclusive  Spillpruf  Bottle! 

ONLY  in  Cutex— the  wonderful  safety  device  that 

prevents  spilling  if  bottle  is  upset!  Safeguards 

clothes,  rugs,  furniture. 

Discover  dazzling  color  clarity  ...  in  a  variety 

of  shades  that  rival  the  crown  jewels!  Try  new 

Cutex  today! 


c:u 


World's  Largest-Selling  Manicure  Aids. 


Why  pay  more?  334  and  194 


XL 


THE  RECORD   PLAYERS 

This  space  rotates  among 
Gene  Stuart  of  WAVZ, 
Art  Pallan  of  KDKA, 
Bill  Mayer  of  WRCV 
and  Al  "Jazzbo"  Collins 
of  WRCA  and  NBC 


Al:  Well,  now,  The  Man  is  here. 
We're  saluting  the  great  Louis  Arm- 
strong— lately  of  New  Orleans  and  a 
little  later  of  the  entire  world — on  his 
fortieth  anniversary  in  show  business 
and  music  business.  Louis,  do  you 
remember  the  first  time  that  you 
knew  music  had  a  message  for  you? 
Louis:  Well  I  remember  'way  early 
back  when  we  used  to  sing  in  the 
quartets.  We  used  to  go  two  by 
two,  singing — and  somebody  would 
call  us  and  pass  the  hat.  In  1915, 
a  kid  pulling  a  dollar  and  a  half  the 
night,  he  was  making  some  money! 
Al:  How  about  your  first  cornet  job? 
Louis:  That  was  in  a  honky-tonk. 
The  cornet  was  one  of  the  old  beat- 
up  ones  .  .  .  got  out  of  a  pawnshop. 
And  the  cornet  man  didn't  show  up. 
You  know,  in  those  days,  a  cat'd 
liable  to  wake  up  and  can't  get  up! 
So  they  said,  go  get  that  li'l  old  boy 
out  there  to  blow  here.  I  had  just 
come  out  of  the  orphanage  and  I  had 
been  taking  music  there.  I  had  a 
brass  band  and  we  use  to  play  on 
Sundays  for  the  boys  to  march  to 
church.  I'd  play  "The  Saints." 
Al:  About  your  tour  .  .  .  when  was 
the  first  time  you  had  a  European  job? 
Louis:  First  time?  1952. 
Al:  And  how  has  it  changed? 
Louis:  Well,  you  know,  them  wars 
kind  of  tore  up  things  a  little  over 
there  and  none  of  the  countries  is  the 
same.  But  they're  still  jumping. 
Al:  They  said  in  the  papers,  Louis, 
T  that  your  job  of  spreading  the  Amer- 
v  ican  word  was  more  effective  than 
R       some  of  the  money  they've  spent  on 


Here'show  Ambassador  Satch  looks 
on  Columbia  album  of  the  same 
name.  Above — it's  me,  sans  beard. 


Cl 


By  AL  COLLINS 

envoys  and  ambassadors,  that  you 
got  the  people  on  a  level  that  had  not 
been  reached  before.  And  you  said 
that  if  you  could  get  into  Russia, 
you'd  thaw  some  of  the  cats  out  .  .  . 
Louis:  Them  Russians,  they  can 
swing.  What  about  "Otchi  Tchor- 
niya"? 

Al:  "Dark  Eyes."    Yeah! 
Louis:    You    take    all    the    Russian 
dances,  all  that  music  .  .  .  Those  cats 
used  to  dance  years  ago  here  at  the 
Russian  Bear.     Swing?     Man! 
Al:  Just  a  matter  of  time,  isn't  it? 
Louis:  Anywhere,  over  there,  you'll 
find  musicians  swinging,  man.    Down 
in  Africa,  them  cats  was  wailing. 
Al:  That's  from  'way  back. 
Louis:  Nine  tribes  danced  for  us  and 
none   of   them   missed    a   beat.    They 
had  us  play  to  see  if  they'd  react  to 
our  music. 

Al:  And  they  got  the  message? 
Louis:  An  old  man  about  110  years 
came  out  there,  swinging  there,  with 
a  shawl  around  him,  man.  And  Lu- 
cille, my  wife,  couldn't  stand  it  any 
longer.  She  went  out  there  and 
wailed  with  him. 

Al:  They  use  the  phrase  over  here 
about  sending  a  message  with  the 
music.  Over  there,  they  really  do. 
Louis:  Well,  to  me,  I  think  they  sent 
that  message  years  ago. 
Al:  A  lot  of  people  like  that  picture 
on  the  "Ambassador  Satch"  album 
for  Columbia. 

Louis:  I  dig  it  myself.  It  reminds  me 
of   when   we   used   to   play    in    New 
Orleans.   Always   in   style. 
Al:  Sure,  got  to  go  first  class.  Well, 


listen,  Louis,  what  are  your  reflections 
about  rock  'n'  roll  and  skiffle? 
Louis:  It  looks  like  every  style  they 
get,  they  go  back  and  get  it.  I  mean, 
look  how  long  the  skiffle  was  played. 
They  used  to  do  those  little  chittlin' 
rags  in  Chicago. 

Al:  What  is  skiffle?  What's  the  word? 
Louis:  It's  kind  of  a  shout  thing. 
You  play  it  in  house  rent-parties, 
you  know.  And  then,  the  rock  'n' 
roll,  that  came  from  the  sanctified 
churches. 

Al:  Yes,  I  can  hear  the  same  accent. 
Louis:  So,  lots  of  times  you  hear 
music,  you  know,  just  don't  worry 
what  it  is  so  long  as  it  sounds  good. 
Al:  Somebody  once  said  "folk  music" 
to  you,  Louis,  and  you're  supposed 
to  have  said,  "Why,  daddy,  I  don't 
know  any  other  kind  of  music  but 
folk  music.  I  ain't  never  heard  a 
horse  sing  a  song." 
Louis:  I  might  have  said  that. 
Al:  Louis,  I  sure  hope  that  you're 
going  to  be  able  to  go  on  for  forty 
more  years.  How  do  you  feel  about 
the  past? 

Louis:    Well,   I   appreciate   the   past. 
But  the  future  ain't  doing  so  bad. 
Al:    That's  right.  Do  you  have   any 
plans  for  retirement? 
Louis:   Well,  no,  you  don't  retire  in 
music.  You  just  put  the  horn  down 
when  you  can't  play  no  more,  that's 
all.    But    as    long    as    the    horn    ain't 
hurting  me  and  I  ain't  hurting  it  .  .  . 
I  mean,  I'm  my  own  public.  I  hear 
that  horn  every  night. 
Al:  And  you  want  to  hear  it  .  .  . 
Louis:  As  long  as  the  sound  is  there. 


12 


Jazzbo's  on  Monitor,  Sat.,  8  to  midnight,  over  NBC  Radio  and  on  The  Al  Collins  Show,  Mon.-Fri.,  4  to  6  P.M.,  over  New  York's  WRCA. 


information  booth 


William  Russell 


Round-Table  Revival 

Please   write   something  about   William 

Russell,  who  stars  in  Sir  Lancelot  on  TV. 

C.  K.,  Mocanaqua,  Pa. 

Breathing  "the  spirit  of  the  young,  the 
vibrant  and  the  contemporary"  into  the 
shadowy  fact  and  fable  of  Arthurian  leg- 
end, is  William  Russell.  The  handsome, 
blue-eyed  Britisher  who  stars  as  Sir  Lance- 
lot feels  right  at  home  at  Arthur's  Table 
and  hopes  this  filming  of  the  knight's 
chivalrous  deeds  has  provided  audiences 
with  a  sort  of  viewer's  Baedeker  to  the 
highways  and  byways  of  Old  England.  .  .  . 
Lancelot,  Russ  says,  is  "a  charming  char- 
acter, very  light  and  gay  without  being 
sugary" — which  brings  us  full  circle  to 
Russ,  who's  very  much  like  that  himself. 
• .  .  .  Born  in  Sunderland,  England,  in  1924, 
Russ  made  his  stage  debut  at  eight,  play- 
ing another  Lancelot  (Shakespeare's  be- 
loved clown,  Lancelot  Gobbo,  in  "The 
Merchant  of  Venice").  His  work  at  Fettes 
University,  where  he  was  considered  a 
theatrical  prodigy,  led  directly  to  early 
admission  to  Oxford — a  singular  honor. 
From  1942  till  '47  he  was  with  the  RAF 
and  it  was  not  until  1946,  while  stationed 
at  Lydda,  Israel,  that  he  could  get  around 
to  stage  business.  As  base  entertainment 
officer,  he  produced  shows  and  films,  one 
of  which  depicted  King  Arthur  and  Sir  L. 
In  '47,  Russ  returned  to  Oxford,  produced 
and  acted  in  many  plays  and  got  an  M.A. 
in  English  Literature.  A  series  of  valuable 
repertory  jobs  prepared  him  for  his  big 
break — a  starring  role  in  the  Lewis  Mile- 
stone film,  "They  Who  Dare."  The  Lancelot 
series  was  to  follow  a  number  of  important 
portrayals  in  radio,  TV,  films  and  on  stage. 
.  .  .  Russ  is  happily  married  to  Balbina, 
the  fiery  French  actress  he  met  while  on 
location  in  Cyprus.  They  plan  a  family, 
"eventually,"  have  just  finished  decorating 
— in  "Eighteenth  Century,"  be  it  known — 
their  "rather  poetic"  Regency  house  in 
Hempstead. 


BARLEHE 


Darlene  Gillespie 

Mouseketeer  Pals 

In  a  recent  story  on  Annette  Funicello, 
the  name  of  Darlene  Gillespie  was  inad- 
vertently omitted  from  the  list  of  Annette's 
friends  among  the  talented  Mickey  Mouse 
Club  regulars.  Of  her  fellow  Mouseketeers, 
Annette  declares,  "They  are  all  my  favorite 
friends."  For  the  many  Darlene  Gillespie 
fans  who  protested  the  omission  of  her 
name,  we  are  glad  to  give  you  here  a  pic- 
ture of  Darlene,  with  the  promise  of  a 
story  about  her  before  too  many  months 
go  by. 

Calling  All  Fans 

The  following  fan  clubs  invite  new  mem- 
bers. If  you  are  interested,  write  to  address 
given — not  to  TV  Radio  Mirror. 

Club  executives,  please  note :  If  you  have 
requested  a  TV  Radio  Mirror  listing  and 
it  has  not  appeared  as  yet,  please  bear 
with  us.  We  have,  at  present,  an  enormous 
backlog  of  such  requests.  If  your  club  is 
still  active,  won't  you  drop  a  card  and  tell 
us  so?  We'll  do  our  best  to  list  you. 
Please!  Bona  fide  clubs,  only. 

The  Four  Preps  Fan  Club,  c/o  Judy 
Ross,  6119  Longridge,  Van  Nuys,  Calif. 

Ricky  Nelson  Fan  Club,  c/o  Ray  Gillie, 
3737  Roselawn  Road,  Cleveland  22,  Ohio. 

Teal  Ames  Fan  Club,  c/o  Sandra  Cons, 
4925  Plamondon  Ave.,  Montreal,  Quebec. 


FOR  YOUR  INFORMATION— If  there's 
something  you  want  to  know  about  radio 
and  television,  write  to  Information  Booth, 
TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East  42nd  St.,  New 
York  17,  N.  Y.  We'll  answer,  if  we  can, 
provided  your  question  is  of  general  inter- 
est. Answers  will  appear  in  this  column — 
but  be  sure  to  attach  this  box  to  your 
letter,  and  specify  whether  it  concerns 
radio  or  TV.  Sorry,  no  personal  answers. 


When  an  easy-going  Dad 
gets  cranky. . . 


let 
MILES 

NERVINE 

help 

him  relax! 

After  a  hectic  day  with 
its  little  complications,  your  husband 
may  come  home  a  bit  cranky — too 
tense  to  relax.  Next  time,  suggest  miles 
nervine— to  help  him  relax,  to  feel 
his  best  again.  Miles  nervine  gently, 
yet  effectively  soothes  nervous 
tension  to  help  busy  men  and  women 
feel  calm  and  serene.  And  with  no 
listless,  dulling  after-effect! 

Try  miles  nervine  also,  when  too 
restless  to  sleep  at  night,  miles 
nervine  relaxes  you  and  lets  you  sleep 
— naturally.  Follow  the  label — avoid 
excessive-  use.  Miles  nervine  has  a 
long  record  of  satisfaction  in  use- 
sold  at  any  drugstore  in  effervescent 
tablets  and  liquid. 

Soothe  nerves . . 

feel  calm  and  serene  with 

Miles®NERVINE 

At  any  drugstore . , . 

No  Prescription  Needed! 

Miles  Laboratories,  Inc.,  Elkhart,  Ind. 


13 


ALL  FOR  CLAMOUR 


Look  like  a  star,  that's  Debra's  rule.  She  fol- 
lows it  at  home  or  with  her  mother  and  NTA's 
Frank    Young    at    New    York's    El    Morocco. 


Take  an  inside  peep  at  moviedom 
as  Debra  Paget  and  Jeff  Hunter 
host  NTA's  Premiere  Performance 


Blue  jeans  give  Debra  the  blues.    She  wants  to  bring  back  the  heydays 
of  glamour.    Jeff  Hunter,  alternating  host,  does  likewise  for  chivalry. 


14 


The  good  old  days  really  were.  So  says  Debra  Paget — 
and  this  film  star  has  the  red  hair  to  match  her  definite 
opinions.  Debra  prefers  the  Hollywood  of  Gloria  Swan- 
son  to  the  paler,  more  casual  movie  city  of  today.  Though 
she's  too  young  to  remember  the  glamorous  heydays  of 
yesterday,  she's  on  a  one-girl — five-foot-three-and-a- 
half,  109  pounds  of  girl — campaign  to  bring  them  back. 
With  her  mother's  help,  Debra  encrusted  the  top  of  a 
strawberry-pink  Cadillac  with  jewels.  They  may  have 
been  paste,  but  the  glitter  stopped  traffic — -when  the  car 
wasn't  sheltered  in  the  garage  of  a  26-room  Beverly  Hills 
establishment  that  is  Debra's  modern-day  Pickfair.  .  .  . 
"People  come  to  Hollywood  to  see  something  they  don't 
see  in  their  own  home  towns,"  says  Debra.  In  earrings 
that  dangle  for  at  least  six  inches,  she  provides  the  de- 
sired sights.  For  those  who  can't  make  the  trip,  Debra 
is  visible  as  alternating  host  with  Jeff  Hunter  on  Premiere 
Performance,  a  series  of  top  20th  Century-Fox  films  that 
are  being  shown  on  TV  for  the  first  time  on  the  133  sta- 
tions (such  as  WPIX  in  New  York)  that  make  up  the 
new  NTA  Film  Network.  Between  reels,  Debra  or  Jeff 
initiates  the  viewer  into  the  secrets  of  the  make-up,  ward- 
robe or  prop  departments.  .  .  .  Behind  Debra's  glitter  is 


some  good  sense.  "Glamour  is  being  well  groomed,"  she 
explains.  "It's  the  general  appearance  and  those  special 
touches."  She's  a  hard  worker  who  begged  for  acting 
lessons  when  she  was  nine,  made  her  movie  debut  at  four- 
teen. She  played  eighteen-year-olds — until  she  actually 
turned  eighteen  and  the  studio  put  her  in  pigtails  to  play 
a  fourteen-year-old.  Her  constant  companion  and  per- 
sonal manager  is  her  mother,  Margaret  Griffin,  a  zestful, 
outspoken  woman  who  wishes  columnists  would  play 
down  her  burlesque  days  and  play  up  Broadway,  where 
most  of  her  own  acting  career  was  spent.  "I'm  kind  of  a 
lonely  person,"  Debra  says,  "and  Mother  knows  my 
moods  and  brings  me  out  of  them."  The  Griffins  (Paget 
is  an  ancestral  name)  are  a  close-knit  family,  with  many 
members  in  show  business.  They  hold  perpetual  open- 
house  amid  ten  television  sets  and  the  mermaids  and  Chi- 
nese statuary  that  are  Debra's  favorite  decor.  Debra 
would  like  to  do  musical  comedy  (she's  showcased  her 
talents  at  Las  Vegas  night  clubs)  .  .  .  live  half  the  year  in 
Mexico  (the  scene  of  her  current  film,  "The  River's 
Edge")  .  .  .  and  marry  a  "gentleman"  who  has  a  sense  of 
humor  and  is  not  the  life  of  the  party.  She  promises  to 
live  happily — and  glamorously — ever  after. 


Surly  Ken   Becker  puts   Elvis  on   his   mettle  with   heckling, 
and  there  are  fireworks  coming   up  in  this  jukebox  joint. 


TT\TRAM>IO 
J.  \  MIRROR 


the  movi 


TV  favorites  on 

your  theater  screen 

By  JANET  GRAVES 

Loving  You 

wallis,  paramount; 

vistavision,  technicolor 
Fashioned  carefully  to  show  off  Elvis  Presley 
in  the  best  light,  this  drama-with-music  casts 
him  as  a  lonely  young  drifter,  boomed  into 
fame  as  a  singing  idol.  It's  press  agent  Liza- 
beth  Scott  who  discovers  him,  hires  him  as 
vocalist  with  Wendell  Corey's  obscure  band 
and  promotes  him  with  publicity  stunts.  Though 
Elvis  gets  entangled  with  the  personal  affairs 
of  Liz  and  Wendell,  he  also  shares  a  gentle 
romance  with  winsome  Dolores  Hart.  Music  is 
ladled  out  in  generous  portions — ballads,  blues, 
but  mostly  rock  'n'  roll. 

Sweet  Smell  of  Success 

UNITED   ARTISTS 

Scheduled  to  make  his  TV  debut  this  fall  with 
a  dramatic  role  on  General  Electric  Theater, 
Tony  Curtis  is  now  being  seen  in  this  expertly 
made  shocker.  He's  a  small-time  New  York 
publicity  man,  a  thoroughgoing  heel  who  has 
attached  himself  to  the  coattails  of  Burt  Lan- 

1  caster,  ruthless  gossip  columnist  and  radio 
commentator.     Susan    Harrison,    Burt's    sister, 

l  has  fallen  in  love  with  Marty  Milner,  a  young 


musician,  and  Burt  assigns  Tony  to  break  it 
up — by  any  means  he  chooses.  Known  as  TV's 
Mrs.  Gobel,  Jeff  Donnell  is  effective  as  Tony's 
disillusioned  secretary,  and  Barbara  Nichols 
strikes  a  note  of  pathos  as  his  sometime  girl- 
friend, a  pawn  in  his  schemes. 

Will  Success  Spoil  Rock  Hunter? 

20th:  cinemascope,  de  luxe  color 
Tony  Randall,  once  Mr.  Peepers'  pal,  star  of 
many  TV  dramas,  really  gets  a  chance  to  dis- 
play his  comedy  skill  in  this  roaring  farce.  As 
a  timid  ad  man,  he  tries  to  get  film  queen 
Jayne  Mansfield's  endorsement  for  a  lipstick 
campaign — and  winds  up  headlined  as  her 
new7  beau,  a  great  lover.  With  one  gag  after 
another,  Hollywood  here  makes  a  ferocious 
attack  on  TV.  But  it's  all  in  fun  (though  not 
for  the  kiddies). 

At   Your    Neighborhood    Theaters 

A  Hatful  of  Rain  (20th:  CinemaScope) : 
Powerful  close-up  of  a  troubled  family.  Drug 
addict  Don  Murray  and  loyal  brother  Anthony 
Franciosa  hide  the  tragedy  from  Eva  Marie 
Saint,  Don's  wife,  and  Lloyd  Nolan,  their  father. 

Bernard ine  (20th;  CinemaScope,  De  Luxe 
Color)  :  In  his  first  movie,  Pat  Boone  leads  a 
group  of  likeable  teenagers,  plots  to  help  Dick 
Sargent,  who's  lovesick  for  Terry  Moore.  With 
songs,  of  course. 

The  Delicate  Delinquent  (Paramount,  Vista- 
Vision)  :  Jerry  Lewis  goes  it  alone  on  film,  as 
a  lonesome,  wacky  slum  kid,  who  finds  a  friend 
in  cop  Darren  McGavin. 


PERIODIC   PAIN 

Midol  acts  three  ways  to  bring 
faster,  more  complete  relief  from 
menstrual  suffering.  It  relieves 
cramps,  eases  headache  and  it 
chases  the  "blues."  Sally  now 
V     takes  Midol  at  the  first  sign  of     J 

^^  manctrnol  riicfraoe  ^^ 


S 


menstrual  distress. 

"WHAT  WOMEN  WANT  TO  KNOW" 

a    24-page    book   explaining    menstruation 
is  yours,  FREE.  Write  Dep't  B-97,  Box  280, 


New  York  18,  N.  Y.  {Sent  in  plain  wrapper) 


"\ 


All  Drugstores 
have  Midol 


|  II 


15 


16 


ends  dull,  dry 
"thirsty'hair-  replaces 
your  natural 
beauty  oils  so  each 
and  every  strand 
shines  with  new  natural 
color  brilliance 


THE    NEW    HAIRDRESSING    IN    SPRAY    FORM 

Unlike  ordinary  hairdressings  which  "coat"  your  hair — make  it 
oily-LANOLiN  Discovery  Hairdressing  is  pure  greaseless  lanolin  in 
a  mist  so  fine  it  is  absorbed  by  each  strand  of  hair.  In  just  seconds 
you  get  the  same  beautiful  results  as  brushing  100  strokes  a  day. 


$ 


,to-r 


#1.2  5  and  *1.8  9 

Ac/A  plus  tax 


brush  •  •  * 
that's  all! 


Used  and  recommended  by  beauticians  everywhere.  Available  wherever  cosmetics  are  sold 


Showing  this  month 


BACK  TO  BATAAN  (RKO):  Rousing  pa- 
triotic melodrama  finds  Yank  John  Wayne, 
Filipino  Anthony  Quinn  leading  guerrilla 
fighters  who  harass  the  temporarily  victorious 
Japanese. 

CRAIG'S  WIFE  (Columbia)  :  In  the  biggesl 

hit  of  her  early  film  career,  Rosalind  Ru->ell 
dissects  the  character  of  a  selfish  woman  who 
loves  her  house  more  than  she  does  her  hus- 
band (John  Boles). 

DESTROYER  (Columbia) :  Tribute  to  Navy 
men  of  World  War  II.  Edward  G.  Robinson, 
as  a  crusty  old-timer,  tussles  with  young 
Glenn  Ford,  who  favors  modern  ways  (and 
romances  Marguerite  Chapman). 

GOLDEN  BOY  (Columbia)  :  William  Hol- 
den's  debut  film,  a  tough  prize-ring  drama.  As 
cynical  girlfriend  of  fight  manager  Adolphe 
Menjou,  Barbara  Stanwyck  persuades  Bill  to 
give  up  the  violin  for  the  gloves,  a  decision 
he  regrets. 

HE  RAN  ALL  THE  WAY  (U.A.) :  Fine 
acting  by  John  Garfield  and  Shelley  Winters 
in  a  crime  story  with  unusual  slants.  A  killer 
on  the  lam,  John  hides  out  in  the  home  of 
Shelley  and  her  terrorized  family. 

LUCK  OF  THE  IRISH,  THE  (20th): 
Funny  and  delightful  fantasy.  On  a  trip  to 
Ireland,  American  newsman  Tyrone  Power 
meets  colleen  Anne  Baxter — and  Cecil  Kel- 
laway,  a  leprechaun  who  comes  to  the  U.  S. 
as  Ty's  butler  and  rearranges  his  life. 

MAGNETIC  MONSTER,  THE  (U.A.) : 
Interesting,  suspenseful  science-fiction.  The 
"monster"  is  a  mysterious,  powerfully  radio- 
active element  that  gets  out  of  control  and 
threatens  the  earth.  Scientist  Richard  Carl- 
son races  for  a  solution. 

NIGHT  SONG  (RKO) :  Smoothly  done  ro- 
mance teams  Dana  Andrews,  as  a  blinded 
musician,  with  Merle  Oberon,  as  an  heiress 
who  pretends  she's  also  blind,  to  by-pass  his 
pride.    Hoagy  Carmichael  scores. 

SAHARA  (Columbia):  Vigorous  war-action 
story.  Humphrey  Bogart  and  other  crewmen 
of  an  American  tank  pick  up  Allied  soldiers 
and  two  Axis  prisoners.  The  motley  group 
battles  desert  thirst  as  Nazi  troops  come 
closer.   With  J.  Carrol  Naish. 

SENTIMENTAL  JOURNEY  (20th): 
Touching  and  tearful.  Concealing  the  heart 
condition  that  dooms  her,  Maureen  O'Hara 
persuades  husband  John  Payne  to  adopt  little 
Connie  Marshall,  so  he  won't  be  alone. 

STEP  LIVELY  (RKO):  Gay  farce  from 
Sinatra's  crooning  days.  He's  a  hick  play- 
wright victimized  by  small-time  stage  pro- 
ducer George  Murphy.  Gloria  De  Haven  is 
Frankie's  love  interest. 

THREE  FACES  WEST  (Republic): 
Strong,  affecting  drama.  Fleeing  Nazi  oppres- 
sion, Austrian  doctor  Charles  Coburn  and 
daughter  Sigrid  Gurie  come  to  America's 
Dust  Bowl,  where  farmers  including  John 
Wayne  fight  against  starvation. 

YOU  BELONG  TO  ME  (Columbia): 
Light,  easygoing  comedy,  with  deft  clowning 
by  Henry  Fonda  and  Barbara  Stanwyck. 
She's  an  M.D.  He's  her  rich  husband,  ter- 
ribly jealous  of  her  male  patients. 


Sylvia  Sullivan  wouldn't 
be  a  bit  surprised  if 
showman-husband  Ed 
said:  "Better  pack  a  bag— 
we're  off  to  Madagascar" 


IN  my  travels  around  the  world  with 
my  husband,  Ed  Sullivan,  I've 
learned  a  lot  of  things  that  the  geog- 
raphy books  didn't  spell  out,  because 
geography  books  can't  measure  the 
courage  or  the  kindness  of  people. 

When  we  were  in  Vienna,  not  many 
weeks  ago,  Franz  Cyrus,  the  United 
Press  Bureau  Chief,  took  us  fifty  miles 
from  the  heart  of  Vienna  to  the  Austro- 
Hungarian  border,  guarded  by  barbed 
wire  fences.  On  the  Hungarian  side, 
Commie  patrols  on  horseback  and 
thirty  foot  sentry  towers  manned  by 
Commies  with  tommy  guns  prevented 
any  more  Hungarians  from  escaping. 

Across  this  particular  part  had 
streamed  more  than  100,000  Hunga- 
rians. Awaiting  them  on  the  Austrian 
side  were  farmers  with  tractors  and 
farm  wagons  risking  death  to  aid  these 
fleeing  Hungarians  to  safety. 

Forever  and  a  day,  whenever  I  think 
of  Austria,  I'll  recognize  it  in  terms  of 
the  selfless  bravery  of  the  Austrian 
people.  Not  only  their  bravery,  but 
their  complete  generosity,  because 
Austria  did  not  set  any  quota  on  these 
Hungarian  refugees  and  Austria  did  not 
specify  that  the  Hungarians  they  re- 
ceived must  be  technicians  or  engineers. 
Austria  welcomed  with  open  arms  any 
Hungarians  who  came  across  the  bor- 
der. 

During  that  visit,  we  went  out  to  one 
of  the  Hungarian  Refugee  Camps  run 
by  the  International  Red  Cross.  We 
were  struck  by  the  many  Hungarian 
children  minus  fathers  and  mothers. 
The  parents  had  sacrificed  their  lives  in 
delivering  the  children  to  the  Austrian 
border. 

There  is  a  world-famed  pastry  shop 
in  Vienna — Darnels.  Thinking  of  the 
children  in  the  Refugee  Camp,  we 
thought  that  it  might  bring  a  moment  of 
happiness  into  their  lives  if  they  could 
have  some  of  the  wonderful  chocolate 
layer  cakes.  So  we  ordered  thirty-six 


SULLIVAN'S 


Continued 


► 


By  MRS.   ED  SULLIVAN 


17 


SULLIVAN'S  TRAVELS 

(Continued) 


Rome:  Sylvia  and  Ed  at  party  given  by   Italian  film   in- 
dustry.   Mike  Keon  of  Rome  Daily  American  is  at  right. 


Vienna:  They're  greeted  by   Franz  Cyrus,  who  arranged 
their  memorable  tour  of  the  Austro-Hungarian  frontier. 


layer  cakes  .and,  inasmuch  as  we  were  leaving,  asked 
Franz  Cyrus  to  stage  a  party  for  the  youngsters.  The 
Austrian  owners  of  the  pastry  shop,  upon  learning  where 
the  layer  cakes  were  to  be  sent,  came  over  to  our  table 
and  said  that  they  would  only  charge  the  actual  costs 
of  baking  and  icing  the  cakes. 

So,  in  Vienna  we  learned  of  the  bravery  and  generos- 
ity of  this  amazing  nation  and  I'll  always  consider  this  to 
be  one  of  the  very  worthwhile  things  I've  learned  while 
traveling  the  world  with  my  husband. 


In  Japan,  where  Ed  had  gone  to  film  some  stuff  from 
"Teahouse  of  the  August  Moon"  for  his  Sunday-night 
program,  I  was  amazed  at  the  charm  and  friendliness  of 
their  people.  The  impression  I  had  of  the  Japanese  was 
completely  altered.  I  marveled  at  their  industry  and 
at  their  farmers'  use  of  every  available  inch  of  ground, 
right  up  to  the  highways. 

Quite  recently,  we  went  to  Mexico  where  Ed  was  film- 
ing some  stuff  with  Tyrone  Power  and  Mel  Ferrer  in 
Darryl  Zanuck's  "The  Sun   {Continued  from  page  61) 


Berlin:  Guide  shows  them  where  a  bloody  page  of  his- 
tory was  closed — the  site  of  Hitler's   Reichs  chancellery. 


Soviet    sector:    The    Sullivans    have    a    look-see    around 
Stalinallee,  the  famed  "glamour  avenue"  of  East  Berlin. 


Ed  likes  to  meet  the  people  in  every  country  they  visit, 
see  the  chief  points  of  interest  in  each  city.  Above,  the 
Sullivans  shaking  hands  with  traffic  policeman  in  Vienna. 
Below,  descending  the  steps  of  the  Soviet  War  Memorial  in 
East    Berlin,    built   of    marble    from    the    chancellery    ruins. 


Sylvia  loves  to  browse  around,  admire  art  treasures  and 
the  exquisite  architecture  of  earlier  days.  Here,  they're 
both  entranced  by  the  fairy-tale  loveliness  of  great  halls 
in  historic  Schoenbrunn  Palace,  on  the  outskirts  of  Vienna. 


Each  place  they  visit,  Ed  has  an  eye  out  for  new  talent. 
Each  place,  he's  recognized  and  hailed.  Below,  table-to- 
table  telephones  at  the  Resi  night  club,  in  West  Berlin, 
are  kept  busy  as  Sullivan  takes  messages  from  G.I.  guests! 


The  Ed  Sullivan  Show  is  seen  over  CBS-TV,  Sunday,  from  8 
to  9  P.M.  EDT,  sponsored  by  the  Mercury-Lincoln  Dealers. 


YOUNG  MAN 
A  HURRY 


20 


Jay  Barney  may  not  be  a  millionaire  like 
Helen  Trent's  Kurt  Bonine,  but  he  knows  where 
he's  going— and  is  literally  scooting  on  his  way 


By  DIANE  ISOLA 

When  multi-billionaire  Kurt 
Bonine  entered  Helen's  life, 
in  CBS  Radio's  daytime  dra- 
ma, The  Romance  Of  Helen  Trent, 
more  than  a  year  ago,  listeners 
perked  up.  "He's  interesting,"  they 
wrote.  "Who  is  Jay  Barney  who 
plays  the  part?  We  like  him." 

The  popular  show's  rating  rose 
higher,  zooming  to  first  place  among 
fifteen-minute  radio  programs.  Jay, 
who  had  stepped  into  the  new  role 
with  the  understanding  that  it 
would  be  for  only  about  six  or 
eight  weeks,  found  himself  forming 
a  long-time  love  triangle — and  lik- 
ing it.  To  stay  with  Helen  Trent, 
he   not    (Continued   on   page    81) 


Evenings  at  home  are  rare,  for  a 
man  who  often  "quadruples"  on  TV, 
radio,  stage  and  film  assignments. 


Jay  has  two  scooters,  five  motor- 
bikes, totes  one  piggyback  by  car 
to  have  it  handy  when  he's  in  camp. 


Off  hours,  he'll  read  a  book  from 
his  library — or,  more  likely,  work 
in  garage  on  one  of  the  scooters. 


Two  lives:  As  lieutenant  colonel  (Reserve),  Jay  teaches  film-projectionist 
course  for  servicemen.  As  Kurt  in  The  Romance  Of  Helen  Trent,  he  forms  a 
triangle  with  Sil  Whitney  (David  Gothard,  left)  and  Helen  (Julie  Stevens). 


The  Romance  Of  Helen  Trent,  starring  Julie  Stevens  in  the  title  role,  with  Jay  Barney 
as  Kurt  Bonine,  is  heard  over  CBS  Radio,  Monday  through  Friday,  at  ]2:30  P.M.  EDT. 


21 


YOUNG  MAN 
IN  A  HURRY 


Jay  Barney  may  not  be  a  millionaire  like 
Helen  Trent's  Kurt  Bonine,  but  he  knows  where 
he's  going-and  is  literally  scooting  on  his  way 


Two  lives:  As  lieutenant  colonel  (Reserve),  Joy  teaches  film-projectionist 
course  for  servicemen.  As  Kurt  in  The  Romanci  Oj  Helen  Trent,  he  forms  a 
triangle  with  Gil  Whitney  (David  Gothard.  left)  and  Helen  (Julie  Stevens). 


The  Romance  0/  Helen  Trent,  marring  Julie  Strrrnn  in  llir  title  rolr,  Willi  Jay  Barney 
as  Kurt  Bonine,  is  heard  o>er  CBS  Radio,  Monday  through  Friday,  al  12  Vl  P  M.  EOT 


21 


You,  too,  can  be  a  contestant  for  top  prizes 
from  your  favorite  TV  hosts— if  you  follow 
these  rules— and  can  fill  these  qualifications 


Royal  duo:  Hal  March  of  The  $64,000 
Question  (left,  with  Robert  Strom) — 
Ralph  Story  of  The  $64,000  Challenge 
(seen  above  with  Edward  G.  Robinson). 

By  FRANCES  KISH 

The  quiz  kings!   Long  may  they 
reign,  say  millions  of  viewers 
who  sit  glued  to  their  TV  sets, 
diverted  by  constantly  amazing 
feats  of  knowledge  and  skill  performed 
on   these   shows — and   wondering: 
How  could  I  get  on?    Or  how  could 
I  get  my  relatives,  my  best  girl  or 
boyfriend,   a  chance  to  get  on? 


22 


QUIZ  KINGS  face  to  face! 


Jack  Barry  referees  Twenty-One.    Contenders  (like  Mrs.  Vivienne  Nearing 
and  Charles  Van  Doren)  pass  written  exams  to  appear  on  nighttime  show. 


Sam  Levenson  quizzes  informal-type  contestants  on  Two  For  The  Money. 
Dr.  Mason  Gross  (far  left),  judges  their  answers  to  average-type  questions. 


Test   is   easier  for   Tic   Tac  Dough, 
as  conducted  by  Barry  on  weekdays. 

Continued 


Groucho  Marx  quips  with  VIP's  and 
"just  folks"  on  You  Bet  Your  Life. 


-► 


-*»J 


»fl 

^"l 

1 

fMHMK^V  **>■*" i;— 

1 

1  J^ 

%,    1 

:;.iP* 

p^ 

You,  too,  can  be  a  contestant  for  top  prizes 
from  your  favorite  TV  hosts— if  you  follow 
these  rules-and  can  fill  these  qualifications 


Meet  the 


QUIZ  KINGS  face  to  face! 


Royal  duo:  Hal  March  of  The  $64,000 
Question  (left,  with  Robert  Strom)— 
Ralph  Story  of  The  $64,000  Challenge 
(seen  above  with  Edward  G.  Robinson). 

By   FRANCES  KISH 

The  quiz  kings!   Long  may  they 
reign,  say  millions  of  viewers 
who  sit  glued  to  their  TV  sets, 
diverted  by  constantly  amazing 
feats  of  knowledge  and  skill  performed 
on   these   shows— and   wondering: 
How  could  I  get  on?    Or  how  could 
I  get  my  relatives,  my  best  girl  or 
boyfriend,   a  chance  to  get  on? 


Jack  Barry  referees  Twenty-One.   Contenders  (like  Mrs.  Vivienne  Nearing 
and  Charles  Van  Doren)  pass  written  exams  to  appear  on  nighttime  show. 


Sam  Levenson  quizzes  informal-type  contestants  on  Two  For  The  Money. 
Dr.  Mason  Gross  (far  left),  judges  their  answers  to  average-type  questions. 


Test   is  easier  for   Tic   Tac   Doui/li, 
as  conducted  by  Barry  on  weekdays. 

Continued 


Groucho  Marx  quips  with  VIP's  and 
"just  folks"  on   You  Ret   Your  Life. 


Meet  the  QUIZ  KINGS  face  to  face! 


(Continued) 


Well,  like  getting  on  in  life,  getting 
on  a  quiz  show  as  a  contestant  seems 
to  depend  upon  a  combination  of  things. 
Ability  to  be  at  the  required  place  at 
the  right  time.  A  lot  of  hard  work,  and 
a  little  luck.  A  lot  of  information  and 
knowledge,  and  more  than  a  little 
stamina.  A  sense  of  fun  and  adventure 
in  competition  with  others,  and  a  sav- 
ing sense  of  humor.  Enough  inner 
philosophy  to  carry  on,  win  or  lose,  and 
enough  sportsmanship  to  accept  either 
outcome  with  grace. 

All  the  big  winners  on  the  big  quiz 
shows  have  had  these  attributes.  These 
are  the  "musts"  of  the  game.  So,  if  you 
have  been  dreaming  of  displaying  your 
knowledge  for  big — or  even  medium- 
size — stakes,  you  can  read  along  and 
check  yourself  against  the  require- 
ments. Even  if  you  feel  you  just 
couldn't  face  the  cameras  and  micro- 
phones— and  those  millions  of  rapt 
viewers — you  can  still  have  fun  decid- 


George  de  Witt  encourages  young  man  to  Name  That  Tune.  Applicants 
come  from  all  walks  of  life,  need  only  liking  for  music,  listening  to  lots  of  it. 


Warren  Hull  has  a  hearty  welcome  for  those  who 
have  real  reason  for  wanting  to  Strike  It  Rich. 


The  Big  Payoff:  Bess  Myerson,  Randy  Merriman  hold  one  of  gifts 
(including  Paris  trip!)  won  by  Rev.  Arthur  Hardge  for  bride-to-be. 


Bud  Collyer  outlines  a  stunt  for  Beat 
The  Clock.  Studio  audiences  provide 
volunteer  "stunters"  before  air  time. 


Bill  Cullen  (with  Carolyn  Stroupe, 
Beverly  Bentley)  has  rivals  guess- 
ing  daily   if  The  Price-  Is  Right. 


Jack  Bailey  may  crown  a  prince — 
as  well  as  Queen  For  A  Day,  chosen 
from  audiences  and  voted  by  them. 


ing  whether  you  would  have  a  ghost 
of  a  chance  to  "make  it,"  if  you  really 
wanted  to. 

Be  ready  with  a  good  snapshot,  or 
other  photograph.  It  will  not  be  re- 
turned, so  don't  send  one  you  wouldn't 
want  to  lose.  Usually,  a  clear  snap- 
shot will  do,  but  that  doesn't  mean 
much  if  it's  taken  at  a  hundred  feet 
and  you're  a  mere  blob  of  gray  down 
at  the  end  of  the  garden  path.  Or  if 
you're  in  a  group  of  people  and  only 
part  of  your  face  peers  over  some- 
one else's  shoulder.  And  smiling  faces 
are  better  than  too-serious  ""or  sad 
ones.  The  smile  shows  how  you  will 


look  when  you  win  on  the  program! 
It  goes  without  saying  that,  if  you 
are  now  twenty  or  thirty,  the  photo 
should  not  be  snipped  from  your 
grade-school  graduation  picture  or 
taken  on  your  sixteenth  birthday.  If 
your  hair  has  turned  to  silver,  be  real- 
istic and  send  a  recent  photo.  The 
same  goes  for  a  woman  who  has  com- 
pletely changed  her  hair-do,  or  a  man 
or  woman  who  has  gained  or  lost 
considerable  weight.  Too  fancy  or 
fanciful  photos  will  get  you  nowhere. 
A  girl  in  'a  bubble  bath,  a  man 
wrapped  in  a  leopard  skin,  a  nurse 
in  operating  mask  with  only  the  eyes 


showing — these  have  all  been  re- 
ceived by  quiz  programs!  Such  pic- 
tures may  cause  merriment  in  the  mail 
room  but  will  be  of  no  help  in  getting 
you  on.  Be  reasonable! 

Let's  start  now  with  the  first  of  the 
really  big-money  shows,  The  $64,000 
Question,  the  one  that  began  the  pa- 
rade. If,  as  you  read  ahead,  you  de- 
cide it  is  even  tougher  to  get  on  than 
you  thought,  remember  that  Hal 
March,  the  fabulously  successful 
master  of  ceremonies  for  this  show, 
didn't  get  on  the  easy  way,  either. 
He  was  among  more  than  three  hun- 
dred  con-    (Continued   on  page    74) 


Art  Linkletter  loves  to  prove  People  Are  Funny.  Show 
sometimes  goes  out  looking  for  special  types  of  people, 
more  often  selects  from  letter-writers  and  ticket-holders. 


Bob  Barker  leads  Truth  Or  Consequences  participants  a 
merry  chase.  Audience  members  never  know  whether  they'll 
be  picked  out — or  have  already  been  "framed"  in  advance! 


IVIIKJE  WALLACE 


MB 


mm 


US 


MB 


r 


-._.■■ 


ffiSw 


f 

■13 

Jl       ^bA 

.- 

IV 

j 

mg                Wf^" 

■ 

1  ■*■  . 

cA.  <  Jt^at 

"On    divorces,"    Mike    explains,    "I 
wouldn't  ask  specific  questions  .  .  . 


My    marriages    weren't    hit-and-run 
affairs  ...  I  think  it  was  mainly  a 


matter  of  growing  away  from  each 
other  .  .  .  This  marriage  will  last." 


"Early  in  my  career,  I  felt  trapped 
by  money.    I  was  unhappy.    I  wasn't 


fulfilled  ...  I  wanted  to  accomplish 
something  I  could  be  proud  of  .  .  . 


I  think  we  are  accomplishing  some- 
thing  with   the    interviews   on   TV." 


You  can  "expect  the  unexpected"  on 
his  ABC-TV  show.  Here,  in  print, 
Mike  answers  the  personal  ques- 
tions he  wouldn't  even  ask  of  others! 

By  GREGORY  MERWIN 

When  Leonard  Goldenson,  President  of  American 
Broadcasting  Company,  contracted  with  Mike 
Wallace  to  do  his  interviews  on  the  ABC -TV 
network,  he  knew  that  he  wasn't  signing  up  a  namby- 
pamby,  how-are-you-darling  reporter.  In  the  seven 
months  before  the  show  went  network,  Mike  had 
dug  deep  into  the  social,  political  and  moral  conscience 
of  several  hundred  big-name  individuals  over 
WABD,  the  Du  Mont-owned  TV  station  in  New  York. 
On  camera,  a  "private  eye"  revealed  that  he  never 
felt  any  regrets  when  he  (Continued  on  page  83) 

The  Mike  Wallace  Interview  is  seen  over  ABC-TV,  Sundays,  from 
10  to  10:30  P.M.  EDT,  as  sponsored  by  Philip  Morris  Cigarettes. 


Mike  doesn't  care  for  night  clubs,  likes  making  his 
own  fun  at  home — as  in  this  music  session  with  wife 
Lorraine  and  Ted  Yates,  JrM  the  Interview  producer. 


27 


He9sWaikin9onAir... 


28 


Ozzie  and  Harriet  have  always  had  it.  Now  Ricky  Nelson 
has  a  portion  of  success  all  his  own  .  .  . 


By  FREDDA  BALLING 


This  is  the  way  it  happened: 
Ricky  Nelson  was  strumming 
his  dad's  guitar  and  singing  "for 
my  own  amazement,"  one  after- 
noon between  setups  for  The  New 
Adventures  Of  Ozzie  And  Harriet, 
when  a  scout  for  the  rhythm-and- 
blues  department  of  a  recording 
company  strolled  onto  the  sound 
stage.  Not  bad,  the  scout  thought, 
in  reference  to  the  choppy  beat 
and  the  pleasant  timbre  of  the 
voice.  Not  bad  at  all.  So  he  trailed 
the  sound  to  its  source. 

Shortly  thereafter,  the  release  of 
a  disc  bearing  "I'm  Walkin',"  a 
rock  'n'  roller,  on  one  side — and 
"Teenagers'  Romance,"  a  ballad, 
on  the  flip — catapulted  Eric  Hil- 
liard  Nelson  into  personally-earned 
prominence  as  one  of  the  youngest 
of  today's  singing  idols. 

In  the  offing,  as  this  goes  to  press, 
is  a  twelve-platter -per-year  re- 
cording contract  sporting  a  hand- 
some maximum  royalty  clause. 
One  of  the  first  responsibilities  of 
the  recording  star  is  to  get  out  and 
plug  his  discs  before  his  most  likely 
audience.  So,  natch,  his  recording 
company  made  arrangements  for 
Ricky  to  appear  at  a  Los  Angeles 
high  school,  backed  by  the  Four 
Preps  (noted  for  their  recording  of 
"Dreamy  Eyes"  for  Capitol). 

When  Ricky  arrived,  he  noted — 
in  a  sort  of  unbelieving  blur — that 
the  windows  facing  the  area  in 
which  he  had  parked  seemed  to  be 
crowded  with  the  bobbing  balloons 
of  human  faces.  "Well  ...  it  sur- 
prised me.  ...  I  guess  word  got 
around  the  school  that  entertain- 
ment was  coming  .  .  .  still,  you 
don't  expect  ...  I  mean  it  was  all 
great,  just  great,"  says  Eric  Hil- 
liard  Nelson. 

Then,  when  the  curtain  was 
opened  to  reveal  the  assembly 
stage,  the  roof  took  off  at  the  same 
time.   For  (Continued  on  page  79) 


The  Nelsons — Ozzie,  David,  Ricky,  Harriet— take  fame 
lightly,  after  a  decade  together  in  the  spotlight.  (They 
also  seemed  impervious  to  birthday  hints — till  Ricky  got 
his  guitar!)  But,  even  so,  Ricky  gets  a  real  charge  out 
of  tuning  in  his  own  record  on  a  deejay  program,  while 
actresses  Gail  Land  (below  left)  and  Myrna  Fahey  beam. 


:    : 


The  New  Adventures  Of  Ozzie  And  Harriet — 
together  with  their  sons,  David  and  Ricky 
Nelson — is  seen  over  ABC-TV,  Wednesday,  at 
9  P.M.  EDT,  as  sponsored  by  Eastman  Kodak. 


66 


TRY  THESE 


99 


Last  year  a  TV  columnist  wrote:  "Most  improbable 
i  publicity  of  the  week — Mrs.  Arthur  Murray  bakes 
before  going  to  the  office."  So  I  sent  her  some  of  the 
day's  browned  offerings  and  the  lady  ate  her  words! 
Sure,  I  bake  early  in  the  morning.  I'm  up  with  the  birds, 
anyway,  and  it  isn't  cricket  to  arrive  at  the  office  before 
your  secretary.  I  bake  often,  too,  because  I  have  a  steady 
customer.  My  husband  Arthur  eats  cake  for  breakfast, 
lunch,  dinner,  and  in  between  times.  His  favorite  is  honey 
cake,  and  I  hope  you'll  try  my  recipe.  I  developed  it  by 
trial  and  failure — it  was  never  "as  good  as  Mother  used  to 
make,"  but  now  it  brings  me  compliments  and  is  finished 
to  the  last  crumb. 

Yes,  it's  fun  to  bake  and  cook — when  you  don't  have 
to  turn  out  three  meals  a  day.  (That's  work,  brother!  If 
your  wife  does  it,  give  her  a  gold  star — and  take  her  out 
to  dinner  wearing  it.)  My  kind  of  cooking  is  pure  "ham." 
I  show  off  with  it  for  occasional  guests  and  for  dinners  at 
home  only  once  or  twice  a  week.     We  don't  have  a  real 


household  anymore — our  twin  daughters  are  both  mar- 
ried, and  Arthur  and  I  five  in  a  small  apartment.  When 
we  don't  have  a  date  with  friends,  we  eat  when  we're 
ready,  usually  quite  late. 

If  I  haven't  been  rehearsing  for  an  acrobatic  TV  act  (in 
other  words,  if  I  still  have  a  clean  face),  we  may  eat  in  a 
delightfully  de-luxe  restaurant.  If  I'm  tired,  we  go  home 
and  I  cook.  That  is  relaxation  for  me.  Blessings  on  the 
freezing  compartment — there  is  always  food  in  the  refrig- 
erator. 

Incidentally,  Arthur  likes  to  get  in  the  act,  too.  And 
when  you've  been  happily  married  as  long  as  I  have — for 
thirty-two  years — you  have  learned  to  "give  stage"  to 
your  mate.  I  have  included  Arthur's  hamburger  method 
along  with  some  of  my  specialties.  I'm  such  an  eager 
beaver  that  I  wish  TV  Radio  Mirror  had  room  for  all  my 
favorites — baked  young  chickens,  spicy  gingerbread 
muffins,  date-and-nut  torten,  sponge  cake,  brownies,  and 
the  sugar  cookies  I  bake  for  my  five  grandchildren. 


HAMBURGERS  ARTURO 

For  3  very  large  hamburgers,  mix  lightly  with  2  forks: 

1  pound   coarsely    ground   top   sirloin 
%  teaspoon  salt 

Sprinkle  well  with  Ac'cent    (monosodium  glutamate) 
and  freshly  ground  black  pepper.  Stir  in  with  forks: 
2  tablespoons  tomato  juice  bits  of  finely  chopped 

chopped  parsley  onion,  if  desired 

bits  of  crisp  bacon  (dancers  don't) 

Form  into  3  large  patties.  Place  on  plate,  cover  with  wax 
paper  and  refrigerate  until  1  hour  before  dinner.  Sprinkle 
a  heavy  ungreased  iron  skillet  well  with  salt.  Heat,  cov- 
ered, until  drop  of  water  will  bounce  from  salted  surface. 
Remove  cover,  increase  heat,  and  place  patties  in  pan. 
Cover.  For  very  rare  meat,  cook  on  one  side  2x/2  minutes, 
turn  to  cook  on  other  side  for  2  minutes.  (Mrs.  Murray 
tucks  a  teaspoon  prepared  mustard  in  the  center.) 

CHEESE  BLINTZES 


Makes  about  14  pancakes. 

Beat  well,  using  a  fork: 
6  eggs 

Combine: 
4  tablespoons  flour 


Vn  teaspoon  salt 
2  tablespoons  water 


Gradually  add  to  1  cup  of  the  beaten  egg.  Then  add  to 
remaining  beaten  egg.  (This  method  prevents  lumping.) 
Cover  work  table  near  stove  with  wax  paper.  Heat  a  6- 
inch  iron  skillet  very  gradually  until  a  small  amount  of 
butter  will  sizzle.  Tip,  so  butter  will  grease  pan  thinly 
and  evenly.  Pour  off  any  excess  butter.  Hold  handle  of 
pan  with  your  left  hand  as  you  pour  in  enough  batter  to 
make  a  thin  layer  that  will  just  cover  the  pan.     Turn  your 


left  hand  back  and  forth  as  you  are  pouring,  so  that  the 
pan  will  be  covered  quickly  and  evenly.  If  your  pan  is 
correctly  heated,  the  thin  pancake  should  start  bubbling 
almost  immediately.  Give  the  pancake  just  a  few  seconds 
until  "set"  and  then  invert  pan  over  wax  paper  so  that 
pancake  will  drop  out,  raw  side  down,  cooked  side  up. 
Continue  in  this  manner  until  all  batter  is  used.  Prepare 
filling  by  combining: 

1  pound  cottage  cheese  dash  salt 

V2  beaten  egg  dash  pepper 

Blend  well.  Place  a  heaping  tablespoon  in  center  of 
each  pancake.  Roll  pancakes  and  place  in  narrow  greased 
baking  dish.  This  may  be  placed  in  refrigerator  until 
ready  to  bake.  Just  before  serving,  place  in  moderate 
oven  (350°F.)  20-25  minutes.  Serve  with  sour  cream, 
cinnamon  and  assorted  fruit  jams.  Makes  3-4  servings. 

HONEY  CAKE 

Mix  together  very  well: 

4  tablespoons  butter  V2  cup  sugar 

%  cup  honey 
Add: 
4  eggs,  well  beaten  grated  rind  of  an  orange 

XA  teaspoon  salt  1  cup  large  walnut  pieces 

Mix  and  sift  twice: 


2  cups  sifted  cake  flour 

1V2  teaspoons  baking  powder 


Vi  teaspoon  baking  soda 
3  heaping  teaspoons  powdered 
instant  coffee 

Stir  flour  into  egg  mixture  slowly  and  well.  Spread 
batter  in  shallow  greased  pan  (10"  x  15").  Bake  in  mod- 
erate oven  (325°F.-350°F.)  45  minutes.  Cut  in  squares 
when  cold.  (Like  all  honey  cakes,  this  tastes  better  when 
at  least  48  hours  old.  If  kept  in  tins,  it  will  stay  fresh  and 
good  for  several  weeks.) 


The  Arthur  Murray  Party  is  seen  on  NBC-TV,  Mem.,  9:30  P.M.  EDT,  as  sponsored  by  Bristol-Myers  Co.  for  Bufferin,  Ipana,  and   Ban. 


30 


EGGS  BAKED  IN  CREAM 

For  each  serving,  butter  individual  casseroles.  Break  2 
fresh  eggs  into  each  casserole.  Season  with  salt,  freshly 
ground  black  pepper  and  a  dash  each  of  cinnamon  and 
tarragon.  Cover  with  heavy  cream.  Bake  in  moderate 
oven  (350°F.)  20  minutes.  For  a  browned  top,  place  un- 
der broiler  a  few  seconds.  Serve  with  buttered  toasted 
raisin  bread  or  rye  bread  and  crisp  bacon. 


L 


1 


Hostess  at  home,  as  well  as  on  TV,  Kathryn 
loves  preparing  these  "husband-tested" 
recipes.  ("Husband"  in  the  case  is,  of  course, 
famed  dance  maestro  Arthur  Murray!) 


31 


'  .  ■   ' 


WKMH's  Bobbin'  With  Robin  proved  Michi- 
gan is  for  Mineo.  Crowds  at  Detroit's  Edge- 
water  Park  overwhelmed  Robin  Seymour  (below 
left)   and   Sal,   almost   broke   up   the   telecast. 


MINEO'S 

Really  Moving 

At  18,  sensational  Sal  is  headed  in 
exciting  new  directions  on  TV, 
records,  radio,  films — and  home  life 


By  HELEN  BOLSTAD 

It's  a  time  for  big  changes  in  the  life  of  Sal  Mineo,  the 
eighteen-year-old  actor  who  has  earned  an  enviable 
reputation  in  the  movies  for  his  sensitive  portrayal 
of  adolescent  change.  Sal's  prospective  changes  in  his 
own  life  are  happy  ones:  He  is  going  to  college,  he  and 
his  family  will  soon  have  a  lovely  new  house,  he  has 
radio  and  television  appearances  planned,  and — best 
of  all — he  has  entered  the  recording  field  and  produced 
a  smash  hit  with  his  first  record. 

Anyone  who  believes  in  the  return  of  bread  cast 
upon  the  waters  can  find  pleasant  confirmation  in  the 
story  of  how  Sal  came  to  record.  In  shouldering  his 
share  of  the  Mineo  family  duties,  Sal  was  once  chief 
baby-sitter  for  his  pretty  little  sister  Sarina.  Last  year, 
another  baby-sitter  started  the  ball  rolling  for  Sal's 
recording  contract. 

It  happened  in  Glenside,  Pennsylvania,  when  Arnold 
Maxin  and  his  wife,  Elaine,  called  in  vivacious  Mary 
Fitzgerald  to  stay  with  their  little  daughters,  Amy  and 
Marjorie. 

On  arrival,  Mary  was  bubbling  with  enthusiastic  plans 
to  start  a  new  fan  club  (Continued  on  page  86) 


Home  in  New  York,  between  telecasts,  tours  and  movies, 
Sal  relaxes  with  his  drums,  the  car  his  folks  gave  him  on 
his.  eighteenth  birthday  this  year,  and  his  dog,  "Bimbo." 


"Lucky"  rings  are  a  Mineo  tradition.  Kid  sister  Sarina 
got  the  latest  one,  proudly  displays  it  to  Sal,  brother 
Victor  and  their  mother — who   began   custom   years  ago. 


I 


Trio  looks  just  as  pretty  as  it  sings  on  Godfrey 
shows  and  Coral  records.  At  Las  Vegas'  Desert  Inn, 
above — as  in  portrait  on  opposite  page — the  left- 
to-right    order    is    Christine,    Phyllis    and    Dorothy. 


Even  a  husband  can't  tell  their  voices  apart — it 
happens  to  be  Phyl  talking,  above.  Dot's  in  white, 
Chris   in   slinky  satin,   during   a    rehearsal   "break." 


To  the  McGuires,  being  a  trio— 
whether  as  singers  in  the  spotlight 
or  just  sisters  in  private— is  a 
picnic,  a  panic,  a  sorority  of  fun 

By  MARTIN  COHEN 


Six  slim  legs,  three  radiant  smiles,  six  melting 
brown  eyes — plus  the  usual  standard  female 
equipment — adds  up  to  three  hundred  and  fifty  - 
four  pounds  of  the  prettiest  (and  best)  trio  in  the 
country.  These  long-stemmed  beauties,  known  as 
The  McGuire  Sisters,  are  not  triplets — but  are  as 
much  alike  as  peas  in  a  pod.  Facially,  there's  a 
difference.  But  let  the  gals  turn  their  heads — or  talk 
to  them  on  the  phone — and  you  don't  know  who's 
who. 

"Even  Mother  can't  tell  us  apart  on  the  telephone," 
says  Phyllis.  "Chris's  husband,  John  Teeter,  may 
call  the  apartment  and  Chris  answers — but  he's  so 
uncertain,  he's  got  to  ask,  'Is  this  you,  Chris?' " 

"Just  the  other  afternoon,"  says  Dot,  "Chris  and  I 
were  walking  right  ahead  of  John.  We  had  on  sport 
outfits,  skirts  and  shirts.  John  came  up  and,  in  a 
cute  little  way,  zipped  the  zipper  on  my  skirt — and, 
when  I  turned  around,  he  said,  'Oh,  I  thought  you 
were  Chris.'    He  was  so  embarrassed!" 

Continued   k 


34 


n 


Busy  as  anyone  in  show  biz,  Chris,  Phyl  and  Dot  McGuire  , 
have  to  rely  on  each  other  for  jokes  and  fun.  "We  never 
get  lonesome,"  they  chorus.  Playing  such  "dates"  as  Las 
Vegas,  they  can  get  in  the  swim — and  the  sun — together. 


(Continued) 


"Do  you  remember,"  Phyllis  asks,  "when  John  was 
dating  Chris  and  we  all  went  along  on  their  dates? 
And  we  were  in  a  kind  of  half-lighted  night  club? 
Well,  we  came  out  of  the  ladies'  room  and  I  sat  down 
beside  John — and  he  thought  it  was  Chris  and  squeezed 
my  hand." 

That's  the  way  it  goes  when  you're  three  sisters  who 
look  alike,  dress  alike,  think  alike,  work  together  and 
sometimes  date  together  (as  Phyl  noted,  when  John 
Teeter  was  just  in  the  dating  stage  with  Chris,  sisters 
Phyl  and  Dot  went  along). 

"How  do  we  feel  about  it?"  Chris  echoes.  "Well,  I 
knew  I'm  speaking  for  all  three  of  us.  We  get  along 
well  and  have  been  together  so  long  that  we  need  each 
other.  But  sometimes  I  think  I  would  just  like  to  dis- 
appear for  a  week  and  not  let  anyone  know  where  I 
am — and  then  come  back  and  say,  casual  as  can  be, 
'Hi,  everybody.' " 

"I  feel  that  way  often,  too,"  Phyllis  chimes  in.  "But 
when  I'm  alone,  I  dislike  it  very  much.  When  we're 
apart,  we  immediately  get  on  the  phone.    We  just  can't 


stand  not  to  know  what  the  others  are  doing.  If  we're 
apart  for  one  afternoon,  we  discuss  every  detail  of 
what's  happened  to  us,  as  though  we  hadn't  seen  each 
other  in  months." 

Chris  smiles  and  says,  "Phyl's  always  nosy.  She 
calls  our  room,  if  she  hasn't  seen  us  for  an  hour  or  two, 
to  find  out  what  we're  doing." 

Yet  there  are  still  people  around  who  want  to  know 
whether  the  McGuires  are  really  sisters.  As  one  of 
them  is  always  sure  to  answer  that  question:  "How  can 
you  doubt  it,  when  we  had  the  same  mother  and 
rather?"  Their  father  and  mother  are  Asa  and  Lilly 
McGuire.  Mother  is  an  ordained  minister;  father,  a 
steel  worker.  Home  was  Miamisburg,  Ohio.  Asa 
McGuire  wanted  boys — at  least  one — but  found  that 
three  girls  could  make  you  just  as  proud  and  be  every 
bit  as  much  of  a  handful. 

Chris  was  born  on  July  30,  1928.  Dot  and  Phyllis 
followed  at  year-and-a-half  intervals.  They  were  close 
enough  in  age  to  play  together  and  sing  as  a  group. 
When  Phyllis  was  four,  they   (Continued  on  page   67) 


36 


Phyl's  the  "baby"  of  the  family,  the  sleepyhead  who 
has  to  be  roused  by  her  sisters.  Chris  is  the  eldest 
and  does  all  their  shopping.  Dot  is  the  "middle  one" 
and  models  for  fittings  and  hairdressing  experiments. 


Between  shows  on  tour — left  to  right,  in  usual  trio  for- 
mation— Chris,  Phyl  and  Dot  discuss  next  stop  with  man- 
ager-arranger-conductor Murray  Kane  (above),  catch 
up  on   musical   "homework"   in  their  hotel   suite   (below). 


The  McGuire  Sisters  are  frequent  guests  on  Arthur  Godfrey  Time,  as  heard  over  CBS  Radio,  Monday  through  Friday,  from  10  to  11:30 
A.M.  EDT,  and  seen  on  CBS-TV,  Monday  through  Thursday,  from  10:30  to  11:30  A.M.  EDT,  under  multiple  sponsorship. 


37 


Spike's  "musical  depreciation"  experts  can  play  real  instruments — when  they  want  to!  Above,  drummer- 
boy  Jones  with  banjoists  Jad  Paul  (left)  and  Freddie  Morgan;  standing — Brian  Farnon,  sax;  Phil  Gray, 
trombone;  George  Rock,  trumpet;  Eddie  Robertson,  tuba;  Gil  Bernal,  sax;  Mousie  Garner,  soprano  sax. 
Below,  right:  Beauty  and  the  Big  Beat — singing  star  Helen  Grayco  with  husband   Spike  and  Gil   Bernal. 


a  Slightly  Reformed  Character 


: 


Normal  as  any  home-loving  man,  with  his  Spike  Junior,  Leslie  Ann 
and  Helen — as  friends  say,  their  lovely  house  is  "awfully  square" 
for  an  offbeat  guy  like  Mr.  Jones.  (But  not  all  the  paintings  on 
their  walls   are   as   graciously   formal   as   that   portrait   of   Helen.) 

By  MAURINE  REMENIH 

When  The  Spike  Jones  Show  hit  the  TV  tubes  last 
spring,  viewers  in  living  rooms  from  Penobscot  to 
Port  Hueneme  exchanged  surprised  glances  of 
disbelief.   Could  this  be  Spike  Jones,  the  "musical 
depreciation"  kid?    The  boy  who  spoofed  Beethoven, 
Brahms  and  Bach?    The  same  character  who  integrated 
pistol  shots,  automobile  horns  and  doorbells  into 
his  arrangements? 

The  new  show  contained  a  couple  of  ballads  sung  by  . 
Mrs.  Jones  (Helen  Grayco,  to  you)  and  about  ten  minutes 
of  the  old  Spike  Jones  madness.   But  the  rest  of  the 
half-hour,  Spike  played  it  straight.   Good,  tuneful, 
danceable — and  straight. 

But  Lindley  Armstrong  Jones  knew  what  he  was 
doing.    As  he  pointed  out  to  one  protesting  fan  who 
wailed  for  more  of  the  "old"  (Continued  on  page  70) 


But  Spike  Jones  isn't  really 
"going  straight" — not  when  there 
are  so  many  other  ways  of 
going  Wound  and  'round  the  music 


House  is  white  Colonial,  but  Spike's  partial  fo 
black  for  his  clothes — calls  this  his  "race-track 
outfit."  Below,  spinning  plastic  "pie  tins,"  Spike 
swears  his  aim  would  be  better  throwing  real  pies! 


He  Will  Never  Be  a  Has-Been! 


Slipping?  Going  highbrow?  Elvis  Presley 
meets  the  rumor-mongers  head  on, 
with  new-found  confidence  and  maturity 

By  EUNICE  FIELD 

It's  a  story  his  family  likes  to  tell.    When  Elvis 
was  only  ten,  he  swerved  his  bike  to  avoid  hitting  a 
cat.    He  fell  against  a  telephone  pole,  and  his  mother — . 
who  had  seen  it  from  a  window — came  running. 
"Are  you  hurt?"  she  asked  anxiously.    The  boy  rubbed 
his  shins.     "Sure,  I'm  hurt,"  he  said.    Then,  taking 
her  hand,  he  squeezed  it  reassuringly:  "Don't  worry, 
Mama  ...  I  ain't  a-gonna  cry." 

Now  that  he  is  twenty-two  and  a  movie  star, 
Elvis  lounges  in  his  green-and-brown  dressing  room 
(furnished  with  Spartan  simplicity)  and  discusses  with 
a  reporter  and  the  publicity  man  assigned  to  his  new 
M-G-M  film,  "Jailhouse  Rock,"  the  big  question 
so  many  newspapers  and  magazines  have  been  asking: 
Is  Elvis  Presley  going  highbrow — and  is  he  slipping? 

Continued  k 


Rumors  aren't  spread  by  those  who  work  with  Elvis.  They 
are  his  most  sincere  boosters.  Above,  at  Paramount,  with 
Lizabeth  Scott  and  Hal  Wallis,  producer  of  "Loving  You." 
At  right,  performing — and  listening  to  a  record  playback. 


He  Will  Never  Be  a  Has-Been! 


(Continued) 


Quiet,  polite,  hard-working — that's  how  everyone  has  found  Elvis  on 
the  movie  lots.  No  complaints  about  rehearsals,  fittings  or  all  the  many 
details  of  his  phenomenal  success  on  records,  films,  TV,  radio,  personal 
appearances.  Presley's  moving  fast — with  Uncle  Sam  planning  his  future. 


The  reporter  puts  the  question  bluntly 
and  Elvis  smiles  so  calmly  that  she  wonders, 
Has  he  been  asking  himself  the  same 
thing?  "Well,"  he  says,  "it's  the  same 
people.  At  first,  they  said  I'd  never  make  it. 
Then  I  was  a  rocket  and  wouldn't  stay  up. 
Now  they're  saying  I'm  getting  too  smart, 
I'm  on  the  bumpy  road  down.  I'd  have 
answered  them  before  now,  but  I  didn't 
think  it  was  worthwhile." 

Doesn't  he  believe  in  striking  back? 
"It's  not  that.  If  I  was  worried,  I  suppose  I 
would  hit  back.  If  that  was  all  they  said. 
But  some  of  the  stuff  they  say  is  pretty 
raw.  I'm  not  made  of  stone,  and  they  hurt. 
But  no  matter."  Obviously,  Elvis  still 
"ain't  a-gonna  cry." 

The  triple-threat  star  of  movies,  tele- 
vision and  recordings  may  not  be  wasting 
time  on  self-pity,  but  he  knows  that  he 
still  has  a  hard  fight  to  keep  his  place  in  the 
sun.  As  the  most  brilliant  of  the  younger 
stars,  he  is  fair  game  for  the  jealous,  the 
prudish,  the  fickle.  His  eyes  flash  restlessly 
about  the  dressing  room.  "I've  told  this 
to  myself  a  lot  of  times:  If  the  day  comes 
when  I  can't  give  the  best  in  me — or  if  the 
best  I've  got  doesn't  please  an  audience — 
I'll  pull  out  without  being  asked.  I'll 
never  let  myself  become  a  has-been!" 

The  force  with  which  this  pledge  is  given 
quickly  melts  into  a  quiet  reverie. 
"As  to  this  stuff  about  'slipping'  and 
'going  highbrow' — well,  I'd  rather  let  other 
people  answer  that  (Continued  on  page  77) 


42 


Headlines — good  and  bad — have  pursued  Elvis  throughout  his  career.  Most  startling  and  tragic 
was  the  sudden  death  of  little  Judy  Tyler  in  a  car  crash  with  her  husband,  last  July  Fourth.  She  had 
just  completed  her  role  as  Presley's  leading  lady  in  this  third  movie,   M-G-M's  "Jailhouse   Rock." 


*                 v|l 

^1 

L           »-,».*? 

f.dg,~ 

■«^3 

SjK 

r                           RS^HH   J 

■k        ^^^■flHH 

U*.    - 

^^^* 

•N  vs.-  *& jM 

Hj 

r^z 

•    • 

•   •   .  ^T*\*    »*  ^H 

1   » 

Hb  - 

• 

>  .          *•>•'..*■] 

*     « 

•  .  k«.  K »  M 

• 

•  •  •  *%.'.»»  »'  ■ 

PR.  1w  *■  ^ 

* 

•  •  •  .'•**>&.*€ 

?t#"  -.v.-vf 

'  %    '      ■*"■ 

*    M 

•  *  •    't  .      m 

■■ f 

BssSEH 

*    4 

'     *  J 

m  *  -j4Mfi 

^HC^^, 

J 

• 

r5* 

Elvis  still  inspires  jealousy  in  devoted  fans'  hearts,  when  pictured  with 
such  pretty  girls  as  Dolores  Hart  (left),  the  romantic  interest  in 
"Loving  You,"  and  Jana  Lund,  teenager  also  in  the  Paramount  film. 
Picture  at  right  proves  there  are  no  age  limits  for   Presley  admirers. 


Julie  finds  bitter  need  of  all  the  courage 

and  insight  she  has  shared  with  others,  as  she 

prepares  to  follow  her  heart  ...  far  from 


Wulie  waked,  and  so  ended  the  happiness  she'd  known 
**  in  her  dream.  It  faded  as  she  opened  her  eyes. 
There  was  bright  sunshine  streaming  in  her  bedroom 
windows,  and  the  birds  sang  outside.  But  the  real  world, 
to  Julie,  was  a  very  dreary  business  of  clinging  to  a 
meager  hope.  The  world  she'd  awakened  to  bore  little 
resemblance  to  the  one  of  her  dream.  Phil  had  been  her 
dream. 

In  waking,  she'd  lost  him.  Her  throat  ached  with 
loneliness.  Her  hands  wanted  to  clench  in  impotent 
rebellion.  She  faced  another  day  with  bitter  reluctance. 
The  sunshine  offered  mockery  rather  than  cheer. 

But  then,  somehow,  she  saw  herself  as  she  was,  and 
what  she  had  done  to  make  a  morning's  waking  so  bleak 
a  thing.  With  an  abrupt  clarity,  she  remembered  long 
years  back,  in  her  early  widowhood,  when  she'd  tried 
to  live  on  memories  after  her  happiness  was  gone.  Now 
she  saw  that  she'd  been  trying  to  live  on  hopes  of  happi- 
ness to  come.  But  the  human  spirit  does  not  thrive  on 
either  memory  or  hope,  alone.  At  Hilltop  House,  where 
the  orphaned  children  often  had  neither,  she'd  come  to 
know  that  a  full  life  comes  only  from  the  courage  to 
face  and  accept,  without  flinching,  whatever  life  may 
bring. 

Now  she  deliberately  unclenched  her  hands.  She  sat 
up.  She  got  out  of  bed  and  went  across  to  her  mirror. 
She  faced  herself  in  it.  Her  face  looked  drawn,  though 
she'd  just  awakened.  She  stared  at  herself  and  willed 
for  courage  to  come.  She'd  taught  her  charges  at  Hill- 
top House  that,  if  one  clamped  one's  jaws  tightly,  and 
squared  one's  shoulders,  and  doggedly  resolved  not  to 
give  in.  .  .  . 

It  worked.  In  minutes,  she  felt  better.  There  was  no 
change  in  the  real  situation,  of  course.  It  was  still  weeks 
since  the  second  letter  from  Phil,  and  he  was  still  in 
South  America,  thousands  of  miles  away.  But  now  she 
remembered  that  Phil  had  written  her  from  there.  He 
realized  that  he'd  been  cruel,  though  without  that  in- 
tention, when  he'd  written  from  New  York  just  before 
his  disappearance.  Then  he'd  said  grimly  that  his 
brother's  plans  had  succeeded  and  he  was  ruined  finan- 
cially. That  their  marriage  had  become  impossible. 
That,  rather  than  put  her  through  the  ordeal  of  saying 
goodbye,  he  was  writing  her  of  the  ending  of  all  hope 
of  a  future  together.    He  was  going  away.    He  did  not 


say     where.     There     had     not     been     even     a     hint. 

Looking  at  her  own  reflection,  standing  in  her  night- 
dress in  the  bedroom,  Julie  saw  herself  wince.  The 
days  and  weeks  after  that  first  letter  had  been  very  bad 
indeed.  Phil's  disaster  was  needless.  It  was  the  result 
of  his  own  brother's  machinations.  His  brother  Lloyd, 
who  bitterly  believed  that  Phil  had  tried  to  be  a  second 
Cain  and  murder  him,  and  who  fiercely  tried  to  avenge 
it.  He'd  brought  about  Phil's  business  defeat  and  finan- 
cial ruin.  And,  since  Phil  was  a  proud  man,  he'd  de- 
stroyed Julie's  hope  of  happiness,  too.  , 

A  window  curtain  billowed  in  the  breeze  beside  an 
open  window.  The  air  was  clean  and  fresh  and  good. 
With  summoned  courage,  Julie  drove  her  thoughts  on- 
ward. Things  were  better  now.  But,  for  a  long  time 
after  that  New  York  letter,  she'd  been  dazed.  She  be- 
lieved Phil  gone  from  her  life  for  always — after  she  had 
emptied  it  of  everything  else,  so  she  could  fill  it  with 
him.  Her  place  as  head  of  Hilltop  House  was  now  some- 
one else's.  She  herself  had  picked  Karen  Whitfield  as 
her  replacement.  Her  friendship  with  David,  and  the 
affection  of  his  teen-age  daughter  Felicia,  had  seemed 
small  things  to  give  up,  when  she  expected  to  go  to* 
South  America  with  Phil  to  begin  a  new  career  as  his 
wife.  Even  the  professional  distinction  she  had  valued 
most — a  plaque  which  was  an  award  for  distinguished 
service  to  children — she  expected  to  keep  packed  away 
in  some  trunk,  because  only  Phil  and  his  needs  and 
happiness  were  to  count  for  her  in  the  future. 

A  mockingbird  outside  her  window  ran  through  his 
repertory  of  the  songs  of  other  birds.  He  came  to  the  dis- 
cordant cawing  of  a  crow,  and  was  less  than  successful. 
His  own  critical  ear  led  him  to  attempt,  repeatedly,  to 
better  it.  The  sound  formed  a  sort  of  sardonic  back- 
ground to  Julie's  thoughts.  But  she  would  not  let  it  turn 
them. 

She  began  to  brush  her  hair,  still  before  the  mirror 
and  watching  her  face  for  a  lessening  of  the  courage 
she'd  had  to  summon  by  an  act  of  will.  Things  were 
much  better  since  Phil's  second  letter.  That  had  come 
from  South  America,  and  now  was  read  almost  to  tatters. 
This  second  time,  he  wrote  that  he  hadn't  meant  to  be 
cruel  when  all  his  affairs  and  all  his  success  crashed 
through  the  carefully  contrived  scheming  of  his  brother 
Lloyd.   He  did  love  her.   He'd  (Continued  on  page  63) 


Hilltop  House  is  heard  over  NBC  Radio,  Monday  through  Friday,  at  3:30  P.M.  EDT,  as  sponsored  by  Quaker  Oats,  Carter's  Little  Liver 
Pills,  Arrid,  and  others.  Jan  Miner  is  pictured  on  the  opposite  page  in  her  starring  role  as  Julie. 


A  FICTION  BONUS 


44 


Ft 


t 


*>- 


COME  TO  THE 


! 


Hard  to  entertain  the  younger  set? 
Grownups  and  children  alike  can 
enjoy  the  kind  of  planning  which  is 
done  for, fun  at  The  Mace  School 


Social  activities  at  The  Mace  School  are  twice  as  enjoyable  for 
students  because  they  help  draw  up  the  plans.  Above,  committee  for 
year's  biggest  party — the  Eighth  Grade  Prom,  at  graduation  time — 
goes  over  the  agenda  with  Mrs.  Frieda  Mace  and  Emile  P.  Faustin. 


Guests  arrive  at  Copacabana  Club  for  "grown-up" 
Prom.  About  half  are  young  actors,  such  as  TV 
twins  Luke  and  Marina  Solito  de  Solis  (above  at 
right),   Ron  McLaren  and   Bonnie  Sawyer  (below). 


Later,  the  committee  of  students  meets  "on  its  own."  As  pictured 
here,  from  left  to  right,  members  include  Charles  Avona,  Frank 
Wieszner,  Marina  Solito  de  Solis,  Fern  Breslow,  Pidgie  Jamieson. 
Unlike  most  parties  outlined   in   story,   this   one   is  to   be  jormall 


46 


AID  OF  VOUR  PARTV 


Round-table  chat  at  the  Copa — where  girls  get  opportunity  to  display  their  most 
formal  finery,  and  boys  practice  their  best  party  manners.  Left  to  right:  Joy  Lee, 
Billy  Carroll,  Betty  Sue  Albert,  Maurice  Hines  (class  president,  often  seen  with 
brother  Gregory  on  such  TV  shows  as  Jackie  Gleason's),  Marina,  Ron  and  Bonnie. 


By  MARY  TEMPLE 


To  be  the  "mother"  of  115  children  from  the  first  to  the 
eighth  grades,  to  educate  them  and  keep  them  busy, 
happy  and  well-adjusted,  would  seem  job  enough  for  any 
woman.  To  plan  and  give  parties  for  such  a  brood,  or 
any  part  of  it,  might  seem  an  added  super-job.  Not  to 
Mrs.  Frieda  Mace,  however.  And  her  experience  and 
know-how  can  be  invaluable  to  any  parent,  older  sister 
or  brother,  who's  responsible  for  seeing  that  the  younger 
set  has  a  good  time  before,  during  and  after  a  really 
successful    "children's   party."     (Even    baby-sitters    can 


learn  a  trick  or  two  for  keeping  youngsters  amused.) 
Mrs.  Mace  is  head  of  The  Mace  School,  in  New  York* 
whose  pupils  include  some  of  the  best-known  and  busiest 
young  actors  and  actresses  in  television  and  radio, 
theater  and  movies,  and  an  equal  number  of  non -profes- 
sional youngsters  who  are  not  yet  preparing  for  any 
career,  in  or  out  of  the  theater.  All  of  them  children 
whose  parents  want  to  see  them  grow  up  with  a  back- 
ground of  good  education  and  good  manners,  with  fun 
and  parties  to  look  back  upon  in  later  years. 


L 


See  Next  Page- 


47 


COME  TO  THE  AID  OF  YOUR  PARTY 

(Continued) 


At  the  school,  all  of  them  are  on  the  same  footing,  the 
only  difference  being  a  more  flexible  study  schedule  for 
those  who  have  acting  jobs  and  cannot  always  conform 
to  the  usual  school  routine.  None  are  singled  out  for 
extracurricular  achievements.  "The  closest  we  have 
ever  come  to  that,"  Mrs.  Mace  says,  "was  when  Patty 
McCormack  played  Helen  Keller  as  a  child  in  a  Playhouse 
90  dramatization  on  television  this  year,  and  the  children 
were  particularly  thrilled  because  one  of  their  number 
had  the  chance  to  portray  a  woman  they  love  and  respect 
so  much.  When  Patty  left  us  to  go  to  California,  we  all 
missed  her. 

"I  really  feel  like  the  mother  of  a  large  family,  where 
no  child  can  take  the  place  of  any  other.  Each  is  dear  to 
me,  for  his  or  her  own  sake.  We  have  no  professional 
talk  in  our  school,  no  professional  jealousies,  no  competi- 
tion among  the  children  who  act  and  those  who  don't. 
When  the  boys  and  girls  get  together  at  school  parties, 
or  among  themselves  at  the  various  homes,  they  have 
the  kind  of  fun  that  belongs  by  right  to  the  wonderful, 
carefree  pre-teen  and  early  teen  years.  What  they  are 
is  what  counts,  not  what  they  do  outside  the  school." 

Bonnie  Sawyer,  the  Kim  of  Valiant  Lady,  was  gradu- 
ated from  Mace  this  year  with  the  Good  Fellowship 
Award  as  the  outstanding  all-around  good  sport  of  her 
class.  Lynn  Lorring,  the  Patti  of  CBS -TV's  Search  For 
Tomorrow  and  also  on  CBS  Radio  in  The  Second  Mrs. 
Burton,  was  president  of  her  graduating  class  in  1955. 
Maurice  Hines — who,  with  his  brother  Gregory,  has  been 
on  the  Gleason  and  other  big  shows,  at  clubs  in  Las 
Vegas,  at  the  Moulin  Rouge  in  Paris — is  this  year's  gradu- 
ating-class  president,  while  Gregory  plans  to  go  on 
with  his  studies  at  the  school.  Jada  Rowland,  Amy  in 
CBS-TV's  The  Secret  Storm,  is  a  last  year's  graduate, 
and  her  brother  Jeffrey  is  still  in  school. 

Three  of  Mama's  TV  children  are  Mace  pupils:  Toni 
Campbell,  who  is  Dagmar;  Susan  Rohall,  who  is  Ingeborg; 
and  Kevin  Coughlin,  who  plays  young  T.R.  So  are  such 
other  in-demand  young  actors  as  Betty  Sue  Albert;  Peter 
Lazer;  Pidgie  Jamieson;  the  Solito  de  Solis  twins,  Luke 


What's  a  gala  prom  to  a  girl — without  a  corsage?  Mrs. 
Mace  helps  pin  one  on  Bonnie  Sawyer,  long  familiar  to  TV 
viewers  as  younger  daughter  Kim  Emerson  in  Valiant  Lady. 


Primping  is  an  important  part  of  feminine  fun,  at  any  age. 
Here,  Joy  Lee  watches  as  Betty  Sue  Albert  adjusts  necklace 
for  Toni  Campbell — who  is  known  on  TV  as  Mama's  Dagmar. 


Pretty  Dawn  Wilson,  Robert  Haight,  Toni  Campbell  and 
Donald  Dilworth  are  on  their  best  behavior — and  having 
wonderful  time,  too,  thanks  to  wise  planning  in  advance. 


48 


Dancing's  a  teen-age  treat  any  time,  formal  or  informal.  Charles,  Toni,  Maurice  and 
Betty  Sue  sip  ginger  ale  as  Joy  and  Ron  try  Copa  floor — to  "live"  music,  not  records! 


and  Marina;  Beverly  Lunsford,  who  plays  Bebe  in  CBS- 
TV's  The  Edge  Of  Night.  Nina  Reader,  the  little  British 
girl  who  is  in  Search  For  Tomorrow;  and  Zina  Bethune, 
Robin  in  CBS -TV's  The  Guiding  Light,  have  been  Mace 
students.  Lydia  Reed,  of  many  dramatic  TV  roles,  who 
also  played  Grace  Kelly's  sister  in  "High  Society";  Kippy 
Campbell  and  Robin  Essen;  Claudia  Crawford  of  the  Ray 
Bolger  Show.  Ronald  McLaren,  who  graduated  this  year; 
Pat  Di  Simone,  who  graduated  last  year.  Jan  Handzlik, 
Barry  Towsen  and  Stanley  Grochowski  of  the  Broadway 
cast  of  "Auntie  Mame";  Eileen  Merry;  Kathy  Dunn  and 
Susan  Reilly  of  the  Broadway  cast  of  "Uncle  Willie"; 
Dick  Clemence,  of  stage  and  TV;  Toby  Stevens  of  "The 
King  and  I."  And  many  others  who,  by  the  nature  of 
their  work,  sometimes  must  continue  their  studies  by 
tutoring,  or  even  by  correspondence  at  times.  Many  who 
come  back  with  report  cards  from  advanced  classes,  eager 
to  show  Mrs.  Mace  what  they  are  doing  and  make  her 
feel  proud  of  them  and  their  continued  progress. 


To  get  back  to  parties:  The  last  big  one  of  the  season 
each  year  is  the  Eighth  Grade  Prom,  in  June,  held  in  re- 
cent years  at  the  famous  Copacabana  Club  in  New  York, 
an  extra-special  privilege  for  the  graduating  class.  That 
started  when  Mrs.  Mace  asked  the  management  of  the 
club  if  she  could  bring  a  group  which  she  had  been  tutor- 
ing, and  the  children  behaved  so  well  in  this  adult  atmos- 
phere that  succeeding  classes  have  been  welcomed  back. 

Most  of  the  parties,  however,  are  the  kind  any  mother 
or  older  sister  can  give  in  her  own  home  and  any  child 
can  help  plan  and  prepare.  "If  it's  a  child's  party,  especi- 
ally an  older  girl  or  boy,  ninety  percent  of  it  should  be 
decided  by  the  child,"  is  Frieda  Mace's  belief.  "This  im- 
mediately creates  an  interest  and  a  desire  to  help.  It 
teaches  a  great  deal  also — good  host  manners,  respon- 
sibility, teamwork.  It  brings  out  creative  ability.  At  the 
school,  for  parties  of  any  size,  we  have  'committees,'  an 
idea  any  mother  could  adapt  for  a  big  neighborhood  or 
community  party,  a  fund-raising  (Continued  on  page  72) 


| 


49 


Young  Dick  Jones  met  his  Betty  when  he  was  15,  knew  right  off  she  was  the  girl 
for  him — for  life.  They're  more  sure  of  it  now  than  ever,  in  their  Burbank  home 
with  daughters  Jennafer  (left)  and  Melody,  sons  Jeff  (Jennafer's  twin)  and  Rick. 


Keeping  Up  With  The 

JONESES 

Dick  has  a  whole  passel  of 
lively  young  'uns  at  home— who 
all  adore  Buffalo  Bill,  Jr. 


By  GORDON  BUDGE 


50 


Sunday  morning  at  ten  o'clock,  you'll  find  Dick  Jones — 
personable  young  Buffalo  Bill,  Jr.,  of  the  two-to-teen 
set — suited  out  in  his  best  go-to-meetin'  clothes,  perched 
squarely  in  the  middle  of  the  front  pew  of  Hollywood's 
First  Presbyterian  Church.     With  the  shy  smile  that  has 
thrown  a  lariat  around  several  million  hero-hungry  hearts, 
Dick  says  in  his  easy  Texas  drawl,  "I  sit  down  front  so's  I 
can  stretch  my  legs  'way  out  and  see  what's  going  on  better." 

A  more  precise  answer  would  tell  you  that  Dick  and  his 
lovely  wife  Betty  for  years  have  enjoyed  squatters'  rights 
on  that  front  seat  because  they  are  the  sort  of  young  people 
who  literally  want  to  get  as  close  to  their  religion  as  they  can. 

When  Gene  Autry  and  Armand  Schaefer,  Buffalo  Bill,  Jr.'s 
executive  producer,  put  their  heads  together  to  pick 
a  Hollywood  actor  for  the  title  role,  they  couldn't  have 
selected  any  one  more  fitting  than  Dick.     As  written, 
Buffalo  Bill,  Jr.  is  a  young  man  of  great  integrity  and  high 
moral  character.     His  chief  responsibility  is  looking  after  his 
younger  sister  Calamity,  as  played  by  Nancy  Gilbert. 
Dick  watches  over  Nancy  herself  (Continued  on  page  65) 


— ■ — 


«&*•. 


v-*< 


— ~-*a&fifiJMB 

Buffalo  Bill,  Jr.  is  ideal  role  for  Dick,  who  did  trick 
riding  before  he  was  four,  performed  many  dangerous 
feats    as    a    child    movie    actor — without    a    double. 


Today,  his  own  small  sons'  eyes  light  up  as  he  puts 
"He's  A  Dandy"  through  his  paces.  They'd  love  to  be 
cowboys — Dick  doesn't  want  them  to  be  performers. 


^Mgfe 

f       \  TJ        Dt 

*?  4] 

£lL 

+  W6         *    «^^ 

/3I 

m 

> 

^^w 

i 

HHMHHH 

Seeing  the  babies  off  to  bed,  or  playing  bucking 
bronco  for  Rick  outdoors,  Dick  gives  thanks  for  the 
blessings — and   the   responsibilities — of  a    big   family. 


Melody,  at  7,  is  already  a  "little  mother"  and  a  big 
help  around  the  house.  Dick  believes  in  keeping  close 
to  all  his  children,  their  problems — and  their  prayers. 


Dick    Jones    stars    in    the    title    role    of    Buffalo    Bill,    Jr.,    a 
Flying  A  Production.  See  local  papers  for  time  and  station. 


JT  ^^^^ 


T  ■ 


y"i| 

U»             1 

(   ■     Bra 

L 

\  \1     i 

Bp 

^  i  ■  *,  ,' ' 

Tf^A 

m 


f 


!»l 


^i 


| 


./"> 


A 


Inside  Nashville's  Ryman  Auditorium  on  Saturday  nights,  you'll  see 
on  stage  1 50  or  more  Grand  Ole  Opry  performers,  as  shown  in  the 
typical  picture  on  the  opposite  page.  This  crowd  (above)  is  the 
eager  group  of  spectators,  who  wait  patiently  for  hours  to  get  in. 


There's  music,  comedy,  dancing. 
Backstage  it's  a  romp.  Out  front 
it's  a  riot.  And  year  after  year, 
Grand  Ole  Opry  packs  'em  in 


Minnie  Pearl,  in  her  "yaller"  dress  and  her  store-bought  hat,  can 
always  panic  the  customers  with  folksy  stories  about  mythical  town 
Grinder's  Switch.  Here  she's  laughing  it  up  with  Ferlin  Husky, 
June  Carter,  and  "Stringbean,"  the  man  with  the  low-hung  pants. 


Rod  Brasfield  greets  "the  Gossip  of  Grinder's 
Switch,"  teases  Minnie  about  chasing  the  boys. 


Down  Nashville  way,  there's  a  hit  running  into 
its  thirty-third  year,  and  the  SRO  sign  is 
still  out.  For  half  an  hour  Saturday  evenings, 
every  country-music  lover  in  the  country  can 
get  into  the  fun  via  the  NBC  radio  network.  Local 
fans  collect  not  only  this  half -hour  nugget  of 
fun,  but  also  an  extra  four-hour  session  of  top 
comedy.    For   this   rib-tickling   session,   reserved 
tickets  are  sold  out  two  months  in  advance.    For 
the  less  fortunate  without  reserved  seats,  the 
alternative  is  to  take  their  chances.  And  the 
gang  starts  gathering  at  three  in  the  afternoon 
for  the  program  which  is  to  start  at  7:30  P.M. 
To  the  veteran  performers  of  Grand  Ole  Opry, 
this  devotion  is  heartwarming — to  a  degree  which 
makes  them  knock  themselves  out  to  pay  back  to 
the  audience  the  same  love  and  affection.  As  a 
result,  Grand  Ole  Opry  is  less  a  "show"  than  it 
is  a  gathering  of  good  friends  of  all  ages. 

Grand  Ole  Opry  emanates  from  Nashville  over  Station 
WSM,  each  Saturday  night,  and  is  heard  nationally 
on   Monitor,   NBC    Radio,   from    10:30    to    11    P.M.   EDT. 

Continued  i 


(Continued) 


Gold  guitars  from  Columbia  Records 
for  Ray  Price's  "Crazy  Arms"  and  to 
Marty  Robbins  for  "Singin'  the  Blues." 


Known  on  air  as  "Solemn  Old 
Judge,"  George  Dewey  Hay  be- 
gan nucleus  of  Opry  back  in  1 925. 


Singer  and  composer  Johnny  Cash, 
whose  records  are  on  Sun  label,  belts 
out  a   rendition   of   "I   Walk  the   Line." 


! 


54 


Square  Dance  Time  on  Grand  Ole  Opry  brings  out  talented 
Cedar  Hill  group.  Dance  is  real  country-style,  fast  and  fun! 
(At  right)  Ernest  Tubb,  one  of  Opry's  mainstays,  talks  with 
Wilburn    Brothers,    Doyle    and    Teddy,    about    script    changes. 


■ 


Grandpa  Jones  blows  off  the  roof  with  fast 
go  on  his  five-string  banjo.  Grandpa's  no 
newcomer,  has  been  singing  it  up  since  '29. 


Governor  Frank  Clement  of  Tennessee  is  a  country-and-Western  music  buff, 
has  turned  up  more  than  once  on  the  Grand  Ole  Opry  stage.  Here  he  kids 
the  audience  at  mike,  with  Hank  Snow  (left)  and  Ernest  Tubb  (right).  In 
background  are  famous  singers,  the  Carter  Sisters,  and  members  of  band. 


Master  guitarist  Chet  Atkins  performs  as 
appreciative  audience  of  top  singers  stands 
by.  They're  Roy  Acuff  and  visitor  Joni  James. 


I     L ; 


Little  Jimmy  Dickens,  smallest  star  on  Opry,  has  one  of  the  biggest 
voices.  Only  4'  II"  high,  but  he  pours  out  a  tall  amount  of  song. 
June  Carter  tries  to  break  up  Jimmy's  act  by  rolling  up  his  pants. 
(Left)   Lonzo  and  Oscar  with  Cousin  Jody  and  Odie  spoof  the  show. 


55 


Can  love  come  to  a  woman  after  35  ? 


She  has  so  much  to  give -to  the  man  who  can  give  in  return.  Could  it  be  Gil? 
They  might  know  real  love  together.  But  whenever  they  come  close  to  fulfillment, 
his  jealousy  tears  through  their  happiness,  destroying  it.  Is  Kurt  the  answer? 
Kurt,  so  sure,  so  shrewd.  He  has  the  power  to  hurt,  yet  a  sudden  gentleness 
made  him  say,  "I'm  starved  for  all  the  things  you  are."  Can  she  choose?  You  can 
get  the  whole  story -even  while  you  work -when  you  listen  to  daytime  radio. 
Hear  THE  ROMANCE  OF  HELEN  TRENT  on  the  CBS  RADIO  NETWORK. 


56 


Monday  through  Friday.  See  your  local  paper  for  station  and  time. 


One  Look- 


Two  Ways 


The  Terry  Twins  know  that  looking 
identical  wins  them  attention — and  jobs 
— but  at  times  they  find  it  more 
important  to  accent  their  individuality 


By  HARRIET  SEGMAN 


Arlene  and  Ardelle  like  to  look  alike  for  TV  and  modeling 
(upper  right).  In  private  life  (above)  they  prefer  different 
hairdos,     necklines,     skirt    widths,     heel     heights,     jewelry. 


There's  such  a  thing  as  being  too  much  one,  so  we 
work  deliberately  at  being  individuals,"  said 
Arlene  Terry  thoughtfully.  Her  "other  self" 
— Ardelle  Terry,  Arlene's  identical  twin — nodded 
agreement.  As  the  hostesses  on  NBC-TV's  Twenty- 
One,  the  Terrys  are  probably  the  country's  most- 
seen  twin-team. 

"When  we  learned  that  everyone  thought  of  us  as 
one  .  .  ."  started  Ardelle,  ".  .  .  we  realized  that 
wouldn't  be  good  for  the  rest  of  our  lives,"  finished 
Arlene.  They  used  to  rely  on  one  another  to  end 
sentences.  Now  they  try  to  see  that  whoever  starts 
talking  also  winds  up  the  idea.  "You  have  to  be 
firm,"  says  Ardelle.  "You  have  to  say — look  here, 
this  is  my  story,  and  I'm  going  to  tell  it  .  .  .  myself." 

For  TV  and  modeling,  they  own  identical  ward- 
robes for  their  twin  look.  They  shop  for  each  other, 
buying  two-at-a-time.  When  going  out  together 
socially,  they  dress  differently,  wear  different  hairdos. 

Arlene  was  married  recently.  Now  that  they  live 
in  separate  apartments,  each  Terry  has  her  own 
make-up  kit.   Before,  they  used  to  dip  into  the  same 


cosmetics.  They  accent  their  blond  coloring  with 
beige  make-up  base  and  pink  lipstick.  Their  skin- 
types  are  identical — a  duet,  or  normal  skin  with  an 
oily  area  around  the  nose — so  they  balance  cream- 
cleansing  with  soap-and-water-plus-astringent  on 
the  oily  patch.  For  quick  make-up  change  on  the  job, 
both  use  liquid  cleansing  cream.  They  keep  their 
fine-grained  skins  fresh  and  glowing  with  a  gentle 
facial  mask  twice  a  week. 

Like  so  many  girls,  Ardelle  tends  to  get  hippy  if 
she  isn't  careful.  The  best  hip-slimmer,  she  finds,  is 
simply  "walking  on  the  floor  sitting  down,  until  you 
feel  it." 

Both  share  sensible  diet  ideas,  stressing  big  salads — 
lettuce,  tomato,  cucumber,  celery,  with  just  enough 
dressing  to  wet  the  leaves.  They  mix  their  own 
dressing,  soft-pedaling  the  oil.  Menus  also  concentrate 
on  meat,  vegetables,  greens,  dark  and  high-protein 
breads.  "And  we  snack  on  cheese  and  milk  instead 
of  candy,"  says  Arlene.  "Perhaps  that's  because  we're 
from  Wisconsin,"  adds  Ardelle — :as  soon  as  she's  sure 
Arlene  has  finished  speaking. 


57 


A  DOC'S  LIFE 

Lassie  always  behaves  like  a  lady — 
courtesy  of  trainer  Rudd  Weatherivax 


Lassie's  a  prolific  sire.    In  this  litter,  he  hopes  to  find 
a   follower   in   his   paw   prints   for   the   day   he    retires. 


Groomed  as  a  star,  Lassie's  just  like  any  Fido 
when  it's  time  for  a  romp  with  Rudd's  grandson. 


58 


Kindness,   says    Rudd   Weatherwax,   is   the   first   rule   in 
training   dogs  to   do  tricks   like   those   Lassie   performs. 


Trainer  Rudd  Weatherwax  knew  a  bargain  when  he  saw  one. 
A  prankish  pup  was  the  runt  of  a  blue-ribbon  litter  of 
collies.  When  he  developed  the  bad  habit  of  chasing  cars,  the 
pup's  owner  brought  him  to  Rudd.  At  the  end  of  a  week, 
the  owner  found  the  peace  and  quiet  of  his  home  so  pleasant 
that  he  asked  Rudd  to  keep  the  dog — in  exchange  for  the 
training  fee  of  ten  dollars.  For  years,  Rudd  had  trained  dogs 
for  film  work  and  he  taught  the  collie  to  sit,  lie  down,  speak, 
retrieve,  attack,  crawl,  open  doors,  and  even  yawn.  His  patience 
was  rewarded  when  M-G-M  needed  a  star  for  Eric  Knight's 
famous  dog  story,  "Lassie  Comes  Home."  A  series  of  other 
"Lassie"  films  was  followed  by  The  Lassie  Show,  the  first  radio 
show  to  star  a  dog.  On  TV,  Lassie  starts  its  fourth  year  this 
fall.  .  .  .  Lassie,  who  plays  a  female  dog  out  of  deference  to  the 
script,  lives  in  an  air-conditioned  kennel  and  is  fed  raw 
beef  when  working,  cooked  meat  when  idle.  With  Lassie,  or 
with  any  Fido,  Rudd  suggests  four  training  rules:  Kindness, 
patience,  guidance  (he  uses  a  ten-foot  leash  at  all  times 
during  training),  and  reward  (a  friendly  word  or  a  morsel 
of  food).  "I  love  kids,  too,"  grins  Rudd,  the  father  of  three, 
"but  they're  not  as  easy  to  train  as  dogs." 

Lassie  is  seen  on  CBS-TV,  Sun.,  7  P.M.  EDT,  sponsored  by  Campbell's  soups. 


MORSELS 
FOR  THOUGHT 


Agnes  Gibbs  of  WCSH  and  WCSH-TV 
serves  food  for  the  body — and  the  mind 


Woman's  work  is  never  done  and,  if  the  woman  is 
Agnes  Freyer  Gibbs,  it's  never  dull,  either. 
Generous  in  proportions  and  perspective,  Mrs.  Gibbs 
is  firmly  convinced  that  the  kitchen  is  the  heart  of 
a  home.   But,  like  every  good  homemaker,  Mrs.  Gibbs 
is  as  concerned  with  the  rise  and  fall  of  the  United 
Nations  or  of  interracial  understanding  as  she  is  with 
the  rise  and  fall  of  her  favorite  cake.  In  either  case, 
she  favors  a  rise.  And,  where  the  cake  is  concerned, 
Mrs.  Gibbs'  culinary  lore  leaves  no  margin  for 
error.  .  .  .  Every  weekday  at  half-past  noon,  she  shares 
her  wide  range  of  interests  on  Here's  Agnes  Gibbs, 
heard  over  Station  WCSH  in  Portland,  Maine.  Week- 
days at  two,  she's  on  camera  for  WCSH-TV  with  a 
homemaking  program,  A  Visit  With  Agnes  Gibbs.  Her 
guests  on  these  programs  have  included  celebrities 
from  the  fields  of  music,  theater,  writing  and  art,  as 
well  as  "just  plain  folks"  who  have  achieved  "great- 
ness" in  their  own  communities.  ...  If  many  of  Agnes 
Gibbs'  recipes  come  from  faraway  lands,  it's  only 
natural.  Her  parents  were  Protestant  missionaries 
and  she  was  born  in  Beirut.  She  lived  in  Syria,  Japan 
and  Capetown,  South  Africa,  until,  at  the  age  of  six- 
teen, she  came  to  the  United  States.  She  received 
a  B.S.  in  Education  from  Framingham  State  Teachers 
College  in  Massachusetts  and  was  introduced  to 
radio  through  her  work  as  County  Home  Demonstra- 
tion Agent  for  the  Extension  Service.  .  .  .  Today, 
Agnes  Gibbs  lives  in  a  century-old  Cape  Cod  house 
in  Gorham,  Maine.  Other  residents  on  the  sixteen 
rambling  acres  include  two  dogs  named  Speckles 
and  Percy,  a  cat  named  Imp,  and  a  three-year- 
old  canary  named  Jack.  .  .  .  One  of  Mrs.  Gibbs'  most 
inspiring  broadcasting  experiences  came  during  a 
forest  fire  in  1947.  At  nine  in  the  morning,  she  asked 
her  radio  listeners  for  donations  of  sandwiches 
for  the  fire-fighters.  By  mid-afternoon,  fifteen  cubic 
feet  of  sandwiches  had  been  delivered.  This  heart- 
warming response  came  even  though  the  delivery 
address  was  repeated  only  once.    Agnes  Gibbs' 
followers  are  too  loyal  for  her  to  have  to  ask  twice. 


Men  like  to  cook,  too,  as  J.  Scott  Smart  of  radio's 
Fat  Man  series  demonstrated  on  a  visit  with  Agnes. 


Just  before  the  Alewife  Festival   Preview,  Bob  Reny, 
Ray  Dunning  and  Fred  Baird  stopped  by  for  a  fish-fry. 


Timed  for  the  Augusta  Kiwanis  Pancake  Festival,  the 
natural  guest  for  Agnes  was,  of  course,  Aunt  Jemima. 


59 


YOUR  PAL 
PALLAN 

That  musical  signature  on 
KDKA  signs  on  the  tops  in  pops 


Art's  "outstanding  contributions"  win  a  plaque 
from  Allegheny  County  record  dealers,  a  buss 
from  wife  Agnes,  cheers  from  the  family  (below). 


60 


Pittsburgh's  Art  Pallan  not  only  spins  records— he  makes  'em. 


With  fifty  thousand  watts  of  Station  KDKA 
at  his  disposal,  Art  Pallan  was  speechless — 
with  laryngitis.  As  a  beginning  of  a  new  job,  it  was 
inauspicious,  particularly  after  the  fanfare  that 
had   announced   that   deejay   Art   was   transferring 
from  other  local  mikes.     The  hoopla  had  even 
included  a  film  showing  Art  as  guide  to  "The  New 
Pittsburgh"  and  the  airing  of  Art's  show  over  New 
York's  independent  WINS,  this  last  to  share  with 
New  York  agency  time -buyers  a  knowledge  that 
Pittsburgh    already   had — namely,    that    "Your   Pal 
Pallan's"    easy,    pleasant    style    was    low    on 
gimmicks  and  high  on  the  best-listening  lists.  .  .  . 
Now  in  fine  voice,  Art  spins  records  and  provides 
household    tips    each    Monday    through    Saturday 
from  10  to  noon.     The  ladies  are  joined  by  the 
rush-hour  crowd  and  the  teenagers  as  Art  provides 
music,   news,   weather   and   traffic   reports   each 
weekday  from  3  to  7  P.M.    And,  since  that  original 
hoarse  beginning,  the  only  thing  that  has  separated 
Art's  clear  tones  from  his  listeners'  ears  has  been 
the  Atlantic  Ocean,  which  Art  crossed  for  an  on- 
the-scene  report  of  the  Hungarian  tragedy.  .  .  . 
Modest  and  likeable,  Art  was  born  in   Braddock, 
Pennsylvania,    some    thirty-odd    years    ago.      He 
sang  bass   in  his   high-school   quartet,   started   his 
career  as  a  local  announcer  in  1942,  when  he  was 
graduated  from   Brentwood   High,   and,   with   time 
out  for  the  war,  rose  to  a  deejay's  rank.    Then  he 
began  singing  again,  first  just  limbering  up   on  a 
chorus  of  somebody  else's  record,  then  waxing  his 
own.     His  coupling  of  "Lonesome"   and   "Land   of 
Dreams"  was  awarded  free  to  2,000  people  to 
induce  charity  contributions  for  Pittsburgh's  Chil- 
dren's Hospital.  .  .  .  Silent  on  his  outstanding 
war  record,  Art  is  vocal  about  his  family.  He  met  his 
wife  Agnes  when  she  phoned  in  a  record  request. 
Art   complied   and   the   calls   continued   until   they 
met   in-person    and   married,   just   three   months 
later.     Suburbanites  now,  they  have  four  children: 
Andrea,  12;  Ann,  8;  Artha,  7;  and  Arthur,  2.    Art's 
a  member   of  the   local   Sportsmen's   Club   and 
wiles  away  the  nen-musical  hours  with  sketching, 
painting,  modeling,   photography,   and  sculpting 
figures  on  apples  which,  he  says,  dry  to  make  real- 
istic art  forms.     His  favorite  recordings   are  by 
Como,  Nat  Cole  and  Ella  Fitzgerald,  but  he  never 
knocks   anybody's   records.     "If  you   don't   like 
'em,"  says  Art,  "don't  play  'em  on  the  air." 


Sullivan's  Travels 

(Continued  from  page  18) 
Also  Rises."  I  didn't  know  what  to  ex- 
pect in  Mexico,  but  I  think  I  had  a  hazy 
picture  of  a  rather  lazy  people,  judging 
from  the  caricatures  we've  seen  in  Amer- 
ica. Instead,  director  Henry  King  told  us 
at  the  studio  that  the  Mexican  movie 
staffers  and  crews  were  the  most  compe- 
tent and  skilled  workers  he  had  ever  met. 
He  said,  too,  that  their  enthusiasm  for  the 
picture  they  were  engaged  in  making  had 
been  a  fantastic  experience  to  all  of  the 
Americans  from  Hollywood. 

Because  of  Ed's  TV  work,  which  re- 
quires him  to  travel  around  the  world  in 
search  of  talent,  I  have  been  singularly 
fortunate  in  going  to  such  places  as  Bra- 
zil, Argentina,  Rome,  Paris,  London,  Ma- 
drid, Copenhagen,  Stockholm,  Honolulu, 
Budapest,  Bermuda,  Zurich,  Berlin,  Mu- 
nich, Jamaica,  Dublin,  Osaka,  Brussels, 
Amsterdam  and  Tokyo. 

Every  city  was  a  revelation  to  us  and  a 
revision  of  pre-formed  ideas  on  the  peo- 
ple who  live  there.  We've  always  found 
that  people  all  over  the  world  are  pretty 
much  the  same.  The  affection  of  parents 
for  their  children  is  identical.  The  respect 
of  people  for  the  moral  code  embodied  in 
the  Ten  Commandments  is  identical.  We've 
found  that  people  treat  you  just  the  way 
you  treat  them.  In  other  words,  it's  the 
old  story  of  getting  out  of  life  exactly  what 
you  put  into  it.  Rudeness  is  the  incu- 
bator for  rudeness.  Friendliness  begets 
friendliness.  There  is  no  language  bar- 
rier that  can't  be  dissolved  by  a  smile. 

Traveling  with  Ed  is  very  exciting.  One 
minute  I  might  be  sitting  in  our  apartment 
making  a  telephone  date  to  have  lunch 
with  a  friend  the  following  day — and  the 
instant  I  hang  up  the  phone,  Ed  will  say, 
"We're  going  to  Europe  tomorrow."  I  never 
ask  why  or  wherefore.  As  long  as  I  know 
where  we're  going,  I  walk  into  my  closet, 
select  the  appropriate  things,  and  am  ready 
to  go  at  a  moment's  notice. 

This  is  how  Ed  and  I  always  travel- 
without  any  preliminary  planning  and 
mostly  on  the  spur  of  the  moment.  I  pre- 
fer it  that  way.  It's  much  more  exciting 
than  sitting  around  planning  and  making 
elaborate  preparations  or  worrying  wheth- 
er you  have  the  right  things  to  wear. 

Ever  since  we  were  married,  Ed  and  I 
have  done  a  gr^at  deal  of  traveling.  Be- 
cause we  don't  believe  in  planning  and 
waiting  for  convenient  times,  we  take  ad- 
vantage of  every  opportunity  to  go  places. 
We're  not  believers  in  waiting  until  we 
have  a  lot  of  time,  or  leisure.  We  feel  it's 
best  to  travel  when  you  can  enjoy  it,  rather 
than  wait  until  you're  rich  enough  to  af- 
ford it.  By  that  time,  you're  generally  too 
sick  or  feeble  to  get  the  most  pleasure  out 
of  it! 

When  Ed  heard  that  his  show  was  to  be 
pre-empted  for  the  Rodgers  and  Hammer- 
stein  production  of  "Cinderella"  this  past 
March  31st,  he  immediately  decided  it 
would  be  a  good  time  to  take  advantage 
of  the  opportunity  to  fly  over  to  Europe. 
I  was  packed  the  minute  he  made  the  sug- 
gestion. We  had  twelve  days  in  Europe 
and  traveled  to  Rome,  Switzerland,  Mu- 
nich, Vienna,  Paris,  and  Berlin — both  East 
and  West  zones. 

In  Rome,  the  Italian  film  stars  gave  a 
large  party  for  Ed  in  appreciation  of  all  he 
has  done  to  make  them  as  well  known  in 
America  as  they  are  in  their  native  land. 
The  Excelsior  Hotel  in  Rome's  beautiful 
Via  Veneto  was  filled  with  top  European 
celebrities.  John  Wayne,  director  Henry 
Hathaway,  Jo  Van  Fleet,  Rossano  Brazzi 
and  many  others  were  also  there. 

The  following  day,  Ed  had  to  go  out  to 
the   set   where   John   Wayne   was   filming 


NEW! 


Star 
Candids 


We've  added  some  brand 
new  stars  and  brand  new  pic- 
tures starting  with  #248. 
Check  the  list  below  for  your 
favorites.  All  handsome  4x5 
photos,  on  glossy  stock,  just 
right  for  framing.  Send  your 
order  today. 


am  fit** 


CANDIDS 


1.  Lana  Turner 

2.  Betty  Grable 

3.  Ava  Gardner 

5.  Alan  Ladd 

6.  Tyrone  Power 

7.  Gregory  Peck 
9.  Esther  Williams 

11.  Elisabeth  Taylor 

14.  Cornel  Wilde 

15.  Frank  Sinatra 

18.  Rory  Calhoun 

19.  Peter  Lawford 

2 1 .  Bob  Mitch  am 

22.  Burt  Lancaster 

23.  Bing  Crosby 
25.  Dale  Evans 
27.  June  Ally  son 

33.  Gene  Autry 

34.  Roy  Rogers 

35.  Sunset  Carson 

50.  Diana  Lynn 

51.  Doris  Day 

52.  Montgomery  Clift 

53.  Richard  Widmark 

56.  Perry  Co  mo 

57.  BiU  Holden 

66.  Gordon  MacRae 

67.  Ann  Blyth 

68.  Jeanne  Grain 

69.  Jane  Russell 
74.  John  Wayne 
78.  Audie  Murphy 
84.  Janet  Leigh 
86.  Farley  Granger 

91.  John  Derek 

92.  Guy  Madison 
94.  Mario  Lanza 
103.  Scott  Brady 

105.  Vic  Damone 

106.  Shelley  Winters 

107.  Richard  Todd 


109.  Dean  Martin 

110.  Jerry  Lewis 
112.  Susan  Hayward 
117.  Terry  Moore 
121.  Tony  Curtis 
124.  Gail  Davis 

127.  Piper  Laurie 

128.  Debbie  Reynolds 

135.  Jeff  Chandler 

136.  Rock  Hudson 

137.  Stewart  Granger 

139.  Debro  Paget 

140.  Dale  Robertson 

141.  Marilyn  Monroe 

142.  Leslie  Caron 

143.  Pier  Angeli 

144.  Mitzi  Gaynor 

145.  Marlon  Brando 

146.  Aldo  Ray 

147.  Tab  Hunter 

148.  Robert  Wagner 

149.  Russ  Tamblyn 

150.  Jeff  Hunter 
152.  Marge  and  Gow- 

er  Champion 

174.  Rita  Gam 

175.  Charlton  Heston 

176.  Steve  Cochran 

177.  Richard  Burton 

179.  Julius  La  Rosa 

180.  Lucille  Ball 
182.  Jack  Webb 
185.  Richard  Egan 
187.  Jeff  Richards 

190.  Pat  Crowley 

191.  Robert  Taylor 

192.  Jean  Simmons 
194.  Audrey  Hepburn 
198.  Gale  Storm 
202.  George  Nader 


205.  Ann  Sothern 
207.  Eddie  Fisher 
209.  Liberace 

211.  Bob  Francis 

212.  Grace  Kelly 

213.  James  Dean 

214.  Sheree  North 

215.  Kim  Novak 

216.  Richard  Davalos 

218.  Eva  Marie  Saint 

219.  Natalie  Wood 

220.  Dewey  Martin 

221.  Joan  Collins 

222.  Jayne  Mansfield 

223.  Sal  Mineo 

224.  Shirlev  Jones 

225.  Elvb  Presley 

226.  Victoria  Shaw 

227.  Tony  Perkins 

228.  Clint  Walker 

229.  Pat  Boone 

230.  Paul  Newman 

231.  Don  Murray 

232.  Don  Cherry 

233.  Pat  Wayne 

234.  Carroll  Baker 

235.  Anita  Ekberg 

236.  Corey  Allen 


237.  Dana  Wynter 

239.  Judy  Busch 

240.  Patti  Page 

241.  Lawrence  Welk 

242.  Alice  Lon 

243.  Larry  Dean 

244.  Buddy  Merrill 

245.  Hugh  O' Brian 

246.  Jim  Arness 

247.  Sanford  Clark 

248.  Vera  Miles 

249.  John  Saxon 

250.  Dean  Stockwell 

251.  Diane  J  erg  ens 

252.  Warren  Ber linger 

253.  James  MacArthur 

254.  Nick  Adams 

255.  John  Kerr 

256.  Harry  Belafonte 

257.  Jim  Lowe 

258.  Luana  Patten 

259.  Dennis  Hopper 

260.  Tom  Tryon 

261.  Tommy  Sands 

262.  Will  Hutchins 

263.  James  Darren 

264.  Ricky  Nelson 


|    WORLD  WIDE,  DEPT.  WG-9 
112  Main  St.,  Ossining.  N.  Y. 

I  enclose  $ for  candid 

I  pictures  of  my  favorite  stars  and  have  circled 
I  the  numbers  of  the  ones  you  are  to  send  me 
I    by  return  mail. 


FILL    IN    AND    MAIL 
COUPON  TODAY! 


I 
I 
I 
I 

7   I 


NAME 

STREET 

CITY 

ZONE STATE J 

Fill  out  and  mail  coupon  today.    Send  cash        " 
or  money  order.  12  pictures  for  $1 ;  6  for  50c 

61 


"Legend  of  the  Lost."  This  left  me  with 
time  to  shop,  and  I  love  shopping  in  Rome, 
particularly  along  the  famous  Via  Con- 
dotti  with  its  fabulous  shops.  No  matter 
how  many  times  I've  been  to  Rome,  the 
sight  of  that  elegant  flight  of  stone  steps 
at  the  Piazza  D'Espagna  always  makes  me 
think  I'm  on  a  movie  set,  and  the  Vatican 
Museum  filled  with  its  priceless  collection 
of  ecclesiastical  treasures  fills  me  with  awe. 
So,  whenever  I  have  a  few  hours  to  my- 
self, I  wander  through  my  favorite  places. 

If  it  were  up  to  me,  I'd  spend  most  of 
these  trips  just  browsing  around  the  towns 
and  cities  we  visit.  But  Ed  is  more  realis- 
tic. He  knows  that  we  don't  have  too 
much  time.  He  believes  in  getting  a  good 
general  idea  of  a  place  and  then  seeing 
the  chief  points  of  interest. 

Ed  is  a  very  meticulous  traveler  and 
traveling  with  h;m  has  taught  me  a  great 
many  useful  things.  In  the  first  place, 
both  of  us  travel  with  a  minimum  of  lug- 
gage. We  only  take  things  we're  sure  we 
will  -wear  on  the  trip.  Since  we  know 
what  countries  we  will  visit  and  know 
what  the  weather  will  be  like,  we  take  ap- 
propriate clothing.  Most  important  of  all, 
we  are  always  at  the  plane  ahead  of  time. 
Ed  is  very  punctual  and  is  always  the  first 
one  at  the  plane. 

Ed  and  I  made  our  first  trip  to  Europe 
in  1936  and  have  been  going  back  for  a 
few  days,  a  week  or  longer,  whenever 
time  permits.  In  1940,  we  wanted  to  go 
somewhere  for  a  vacation  but  neither  one 
of  us  had  any  idea  where  to  go.  Ed  was 
appearing  at  Loew's  State  Theater  on 
Broadway,  at  that  time,  and,  one  night 
after  his  show,  we  were  walking  along 
Broadway  and  passed  a  travel  agency  that 
had  posters  of  South  America  in  the 
window.  Ed  turned  to  me  and  said,  "How 
would  you  like  to  go  to  South  America?" 
I  said  I'd  love  it.  "All  right,  we're  going." 
And  he  went  in  and  arranged  passage  then 
and  there.        , 

At  another  time,  our  daughter  Betty  and 
her  husband  Bob  Precht  were  in  New 
York  from  Washington  spending  Thanks- 
giving Day  with  us.  Betty  was  six  months 
pregnant  at  the  time.  During  dinner,  Ed 
was  talking  about  Betty's  birthday,  which 
was  December  29.  He  said  we  should  plan 
to  do  something  in  celebration — and  then, 
out  of  a  clear  sky,  he  turned  to  Bob  and 
Betty  and  said,  "How  about  going  to  Eu- 
rope for  Christmas?" 

Bob   couldn't  hide   the   look   of   amaze- 


ment that  spread  over  his  face.  He  didn't 
know  that  was  the  way  Ed  did  things. 
But,  then  and  there,  Ed  arranged  for  us 
to  spend  Christmas  and  New  Year's  in 
Europe.  We  ate  Betty's  birthday  cake  up 
in  the  air  over  Europe,  en  route  from 
London  to  France. 

Before  Betty  was  married,  and  when- 
ever it  was  possible  to  have  her  along 
without  interfering  with  her  schooling,  Ed 
and  I  always  had  her  accompany  us  on  our 
travels. 

It  is  a  constant  source  of  surprise  to  me, 
whenever  we're  in  foreign  countries,  how 
many  people  recognize  Ed  during  our  vis- 
its. We  may  be  walking  down  the  street 
of  a  European  city  and  people  will  greet 
him  by  name.  Of  course,  at  airports  and 
railroad  stations,  there  are  always  apt  to 
be  people  who  know  Ed  very  well.  On 
our  last  trip,  we  stopped  at  a  Swiss  air- 
port for  a  little  while  and  ran  into  Sonja 
Henie.    It  happens  all  the  time. 

Our  recent  European  trip  was  a  suc- 
cession of  interesting  highlights.  Wherever 
we  went,  we  saw  things  that  we  shall  al- 
ways remember.  Ed  and  I  had  wanted  to 
go  to  East  Berlin  but,  whenever  we  men- 
tioned this  to  anyone,  they  immediately 
discouraged  us.  They  predicted  all  sorts 
of  dire  things.  But  I  personally  thought 
it  might  be  interesting  to  see  a  completely 
different  side  of  life.  So,  with  all  sorts  of 
warnings  ringing  in  our  ears,  with  ad- 
monitions not  to  dare  step  out  of  our  car, 
we  set  out.  We  refused  to  be  frightened. 
Of  course  we  didn't  want  to  get  involved 
in  any  unpleasant  situation  that  might  re- 
flect upon  us  as  citizens  of  the  United 
States.  We  simply  wanted  to  go  as  tour- 
ists and  to  see  if  all  the  stories  we  heard 
were   really   true. 

East  Berlin  made  a  deep  and  definite  im- 
pression on  me.  It  was  almost  like  being 
right  inside  Russia  itself.  We  visited  the 
cemetery  where  the  heroes  of  the  Battle 
of  Berlin  lie  buried.  We  saw  the  huge 
somber  statues  of  Mother  Russia  and  the 
soldiers  with  guns  and  helmets  standing 
guard  over  the  dead.  We  saw  the  huge 
slabs  set  on  the  ground  in  memory  of  the 
battles  and,  inside  the  huge  memorial,  the 
names  of  the  men  who  died  in  the  Battle 
of  Berlin. 

We  stopped  at  the  main  square  of  the 
sector  and  there  was  a  feeling  of  austerity 
and  unquestionable  discipline  in  the  at- 
mosphere that  made  us  happier  than  ever 
that  we  were  Americans. 

In  the  American  sector  of  Berlin,  every- 


Every  Woman 
Wants  My  Man- 

Why  do  so  many  marriages  go  on  the  rocks? 
What  makes  a  woman  covet  another's  hus- 
band? Why  do  married  men  "play  around"? 
These  are  some  of  the  questions  that  are  an- 
swered by  the  radio  program  "My  True  Story." 
And  they're  not  answers  that  are  born  in  a 
fiction  writer's  brain.  For  these  are  stories  of 
real  people — taken  right  from  the  files  of 
True  Story  Magazine.  They  make  exciting 
listening,  so  be  sure  to  hear  them. 

TUNE  IN  EVERY  MORNING  TO 

MY  TRUE  STORY 

American  Broadcasting  Stations 


"I  followed  Tom  as  he  carried  Becky's  limp  form  into  our  spare  bedroom."  Read 
"Borrowed   Baby"  in  the  current  issue  of  TRUE  STORY   Magazine,   now  at  all 

„  newsstands. 

62 


thing  was  different.  The  very  looks  on 
the  faces  of  the  people  plainly  signified 
that  they  were  not  living  under  the  yoke  of 
oppression.  They  knew  how  to  laugh  and 
smile  and  be  happy.  We  went  to  Resi,  one 
of  the  large  night  clubs  frequented  by 
Americans  and  particularly  the  G.I.'s.  As 
we  entered,  the  American  soldiers  there 
recognized  Ed  and  a  great  cheer  of  wel- 
come greeted  him.  Then,  they  swarmed 
around  him  asking  questions  about  home. 
Ed  answered  all  those  questions  and  then 
asked  some  himself.  He  took  messages  for 
their  families  and,  when  we  got  back  to 
the  states,  he  saw  that  each  message  was 
delivered  to  its  destination. 

The  Resi  is  a  huge  night  club  with  al- 
most continuous  entertainment.  Each  table 
has  its  own  telephone  and  a  dialing  system 
enabling  one  patron  to  talk  to  another. 
Naturally,  Ed's  phone  was  kept  busy  all 
evening  long.  They  also  had  an  interest- 
ing system  of  communication  by  which 
messages  were  transmitted  through  pneu- 
matic tubes.  This  also  enables  patrons  to 
communicate  with  each  other  and  was 
particularly  popular  with  the  G.I's. 

The  next  day,  Ed  and  I  went  to  visit  a 
television  station  in  Berlin.  As  we  walked 
into  the  studio,  again  a  hearty  welcoming 
cheer  greeted  us.  By  coincidence,  on  that 
very  day,  a  group  of  thirty  young  Ameri- 
can students  under  the  sponsorship  of  the 
New  York  Herald  Tribune  were  visiting 
Berlin.  Naturally,  the  young  people  recog- 
nized Ed — but  they  were  amazed  at  seeing 
him  there! 

Whether  it's  in  night  clubs,  theaters  or 
in  a  tiny  cafe,  Ed  is  always  on  the  alert  for 
new  and  unusual  talent.  In  Paris,  he  loves 
to  watch  the  street  circus  stationed  there 
permanently.  Sometimes,  the  performers 
he  sees  quite  by  accident  eventually  wind 
up  on  his  CBS  television  show.  If  anyone 
mentions  an  unusual  singer  or  performer, 
Ed  will  interrupt  his  itinerary  to  catch  it. 
That's  why  his  show  has  so  much  foreign 
talent  that  would  otherwise  never  be  seen 
by  the  vast  American  television  viewers. 
And  that's  why,  wherever  we  go  in  Europe, 
people  seem  to  know  him.  He  is  regarded 
as  a  sort  of  ambassador-without-portfolio 
and,  in  almost  all  the  countries  we  visit, 
they  constantly  tell  us  he  has  done  more 
to  establish  a  strong  bond  of  friendship 
with  the  United  States  than  any  other  per- 
son in  the  field  of  entertainment. 

There  is  definitely  a  logical  explanation 
for  this.  Ed  is  always  interested  in  the 
individual.  It  doesn't  matter  to  him  where 
the  performer  may  come  from  or  what  col- 
or or  creed  he  may  be.  If  the  person  ex- 
cels in  his  particular  type  of  field,  if  he  or 
she  is  tops  as  an  entertainer,  that's  enough 
for  Ed. 

No  matter  where  we  go,  Ed  is  interested 
in  the  people.  He  stops  and  chats  with 
shopkeepers,  porters  and  waiters.  He  talks 
to  the  streetcar  conductors,  the  elevator 
operators,  the  taxi  drivers  and  the  police- 
men. As  for  me,  I  can  never  get  enough 
of  wandering  through  foreign  towns  and 
cities,  observing  everything  that  goes  on. 
Sometimes  months  later,  back  in  New 
York  or  at  our  Connecticut  farm,  I'll  sud- 
denly recall  how  a  little  street  or  square 
in  a  corner  of  Paris  looked.  And,  no  mat- 
ter how  many  times  I've  been  there,  I  al- 
ways feel  nostalgia  and  a  desire  to  return. 

Being  married  to  Ed  is  exciting.  Be- 
cause both  of  us  are  ready  to  go  any  place 
at  a  moment's  notice,  our  travels  have 
been  filled  with  fun  and  enjoyment.  There 
are  so  many  places  I'd  love  to  revisit.  But 
I  am  also  hoping  that  some  day  Ed  and  I 
can  manage  to  get  to  Israel,  to  Africa  and 
to  India.  Who  knows?  Maybe  tomorrow 
morning,  Ed  might  suddenly  turn  to  me 
and  say,  "Better  pack  a  bag,  Sylvia,  we're 
going  to  Madagascar." 


(Continued  jrom  page  44) 
even  begun  to  fight  a  way  back  toward 
success — to  make  a  new  career  in  the  place 
where  he'd  made  his  first. 

Julie  saw  that  her  expression  was  proud. 
She  was  glad.  Phil  was  proud,  desperately 
so,  and  it  was  part  of  her  disaster  that 
his  pride  would  not  let  him  permit  her 
to  share  his  misfortune.  He  would  be 
ashamed  to  offer  only  poverty  to  the 
woman  he  loved.  But  that  same  pride  gave 
him  courage  to  fight  when  everything 
looked  blackest,  and  Julie  now  felt  pride 
in  his  courage.  It  worked. 

She  dressed,  remembering  every  word 
of  his  letter  as  she  moved  about  her 
room.  At  once  she  could  see  the  words 
he'd  written  as  they  appeared  upon  the 
paper,  and  the  images  the  words  evoked. 
He'd  been  filled  with  despair  at  the  be- 
ginning. But,  very  oddly,  another  woman 
had  brought  him  out  of  it  and  back  to 
this  new  resolution  and  this  new  enter- 
prise which  might — which  must — which 
would  mean  that  they  would  yet  be 
happy   together. 

A  former  sweetheart,  one  Dolores,  had 
sought  him  out,  he  said,  and  Julie  read 
between  the  lines  and  knew  that  she'd 
tried  to  revive  a  love  affair  long  ended. 
She'd  failed  because  Phil  loved  Julie  and 
could  not  cease  to  love  her.  So  the  letter 
told  much  more  than  Phil  intended, 
and  all  of  it  was  matter  for  pride.  He'd 
bought  an  ancient  cargo  plane  in  such 
bad  condition  that  no  one  else  would 
touch  it.  He'd  repaired  it  with  his  own 
hands,  and  it  flew.  He  was  a  competent 
pilot.  He'd  set  up  a  one-plane  charter 
service,  flying  air  freight  to  places  where 
other  pilots  preferred  not  to  risk  land- 
ings.  Because   he  would  fly   where   other 


Hilltop  House 

men  would  not,  his  services  were  already 
in  demand.  In  a  little  while,  he  could  buy 
a  second  plane.  If  all  went  well,  there 
could  still  be  happiness  for  them  .  .  . 

He  ignored  the  hatred  of  his  brother 
Lloyd,  and  the  diseased  vindictiveness 
with  which  Lloyd  had  tried  to  avenge  an 
injury  which  had  never  been  inflicted. 
Phil's  letter  was  carefully  less  than  opti- 
mistic, but  it  implied  a  tenderness  and  a 
resolution  so  complete  that,  when  she 
first  read  it,  Julie  felt  all  the  warmth 
and  happiness  a  woman  feels  when  she 
knows  she  is  beloved  by  the  one  man 
who  really  counts.  But  that  was  a  long 
time  ago,  now. 

Her  dressing  was  finished.  She  looked 
at  herself  again.  The  sunshine  in  the 
windows  was  no  longer  mockery.  The 
warm  soft  breeze  was  no  longer  merely  air 
in  motion.  The  bird  songs  ceased  to  be 
derision.  By  calling  upon  herself  for 
courage,  she  had  brought  herself  out  of 
one  of  the  blackest  of  morning  moods 
and  to  one  which,  if  it  was  not  cheer- 
fulness, was  at  least  a  sturdy  resolution 
which    could    substitute    for    it. 

"It's  not  too  bad!"  she  told  her  re- 
flection with  increasing  bravery.  "I've  just 
got  to  wait!  And  Phil  hasn't  given  up. 
He'll  manage.  So  can  I.  The  question 
is — " 

The  question  was,  of  course,  how  to 
make  waiting  endurable.  As  she  left  her 
room,  she  pondered  the  question  with  a 
new  urgency.  For  years,  until  now,  she'd 
had  something  to  fill  her  every  waking 
moment.  There'd  been  Hilltop  House  and 
the  children  there.  .  .  .  She  felt  a  wistful 
warmth  at  memory  of  those  who'd  needed 
her  so  terribly,  and  whom  she  had  been 
able   to   help.   Then   she   caught   the   note 


of  regret  in  her  own  thoughts,  and  thrust 
it  aside.  Karen  was  head  of  Hilltop  House 
now.  Karen  was  young,  but  she  was  sweet 
and  lovable  and  intelligent,  and  she  had 
taken  over  the  work  Julie'd  chosen  her 
to  do.  Julie  should  not  try  to  interfere 
there,  even  though  Terry  was  a  problem 
to  be  solved  .  .  .  Terry  was  a  teen-age 
girl  frantically  hungry  to  be  loved  and  to 
belong  somewhere  with  someone  .  .  . 
and  Mark  would  be  a  problem  pre- 
sently .  .  . 

Going  down  the  stairs,  Julie  called  a 
halt  to  those  thoughts.  Those  problems 
were  Hilltop  House  problems.  She  had 
separated  herself  from  Hilltop  House  so 
she  could  marry  Phil.  She  must  not  offer 
advice  or  help  to  Karen  unless  Karen 
asked  for  it.  It  would  be  disastrous,  even 
to  the  children,  to  have  divided  counsel- 
ors. 

Counselors.  David,  who  ran  the  Clinic 
for  Potential  Delinquents  near  Hilltop, 
because  he'd  lived  at  the  Hilltop  House 
orphanage  when  he  was  a  boy.  The  years 
he'd  spent  there  were  the  most  crucial 
of  his  childhood,  and  he  knew  that  the 
help  and  guidance  given  him  had  pro- 
vided the  stability  which  now  made  him 
one  of  the  nation's  foremost  authorities 
in  child  psychology.  He'd  had  his  own 
tragedies,   too    .   .    . 

Julie  reached  the  bottom  of  the  stairs. 
It  was  good  to  think  of  David.  If  she'd 
helped  even  one  neglected,  unwanted 
child  to  grow  toward  being  a  man  like 
David,  her  years  at  Hilltop  House  were 
not  wasted!  And  he  was  her  friend.  She 
owed  very  much  to  him.  It  had  been 
David  who,  when  she  first  took  charge  of 
Hilltop  House,  showed  her  very  gently 
that    the    orphanage    was    not    merely    a 


Nancy  Hill, 

Kappa  Kappa  Gamma, 

SOUTHERN  METHODIST 

UNIVERSITY,  says 

SOLITAIR  is  the  smoothest, 

most  natural-looking 

make-up  I've  ever  used 

— it's  fabulous!" 

Nancy  is  one  of  three 

semi-finalists  in  Campana's 

nationwide  College 

Beauty  Queen  Contest. 

Winner  receives  a 

ten  day  trip  to  Hawaii  via 

Northwest  Orient  Airlines 

and  will  stay  at  the 

Royal  Hawaiian  Hotel. 


College  Beauties 
prefer  ^uSuk, 

the  young  make-up 

with  the  NATURAL  look 

It's  the  young  look... the  clear,  fresh  beauty 
Solitair  gives  that  has  captured  the  hearts  of  lovely 
co-eds  all  over  the  country.  Solitair — with  a 
remarkable  new  skin  discovery  called  Vita-Lite — 
gives  such  a  smooth,  fresh,  natural  look 
that  it's  a  campus  favorite  by  day — a  girl's  best 
friend  by  candlelight! 

Smooth  on  Solitair  with  a  moist  sponge — 
Vita-Lite  penetrates... helps  restore  moisture... 
stimulates  circulation.  Suddenly  you're  lovelier  than 
ever — and  day  by  day  your  complexion  improves 
...tired  lines  seem  to  disappear. 

See  for  yourself.  Get  Solitair,  the  "moisture 
miracle"  make-up ...  for  the  youngest, 
prettiest  face  you've  ever  had! 

by  CAM  PAN  A 

35^,  69£,  $1.25  plus  tax  in  better  drug  and  all  variety  stores 


T 
V 
R 

63 


refuge  in  which  she  could  live  absorbed  in 
the  love  of  the  Hilltop  children  and  their 
need  of  her.  He'd  made  her  see  that  she 
must  not  cut  herself  off  from  everything 
outside  the  House  to  live  upon  her  mem- 
ories. He'd  made  her  see  that,  to  give  the 
children  courage  to  accept  even  losses 
by  death  with  bravery,  she  must  be  the 
embodiment  of  it.  And  she  felt  rueful  that 
this    morning    she'd    lacked    all    courage. 

She  prepared  her  breakfast.  She  thought 
of  Phil,  of  course,  but  she  was  aware  of  a 
deep  gratitude  to  and  affection  for  David. 
When  he  helped  her  most,  he'd  been  mar- 
ried himself — and  his  marriage  was  a 
tragedy,  in  spite  of  his  young  daughter 
Felicia.  Knowing  of  her  love  for  Phil  now, 
Julie  felt  a  sort  of  wonder  that,  for  a  time, 
she'd  had  to  struggle  against  falling  in 
love  with  David.  But  that  was  done  with. 
There  was  Phil. 

She  sat  down  to  her  coffee,  aware  that 
she  must  make  some  decision  and  find 
some  activity  while  waiting  for  Phil's  new 
career  to  come  to  fruition.  She  must 
find  some  useful  work  to  do  which  she 
could  resign  without  damage  when  Phil 
was  ready  to  marry  her. 

1  he  coffee  was  good.  The  eggs  and 
toast  were  perfect.  The  room  in  which 
she  breakfasted  was  bright  and  colorful, 
and  the  sunshine  outside  was  now  con- 
tagiously cheerful.  There  was  no  lessen- 
ing of  her  longing  to  be  with  Phil,  in 
South  America  or  anywhere  else.  But,  by 
summoning  courage,  she'd  made  this  day 
into  something  more  than  so  many  hours 
to  be  endured.  Now  it  was  a  day  in  which 
to  plan  for  that  period,  whether  long  or 
short,  in  which  she  must  wait  for  Phil  to 
achieve  that  material  success  without 
which  he  would  be  ashamed  to  have  her 
share  his  life. 

She  spread  a  little  extra  butter  on  a  bit 
of  toast,  aware  of  an  odd  satisfaction, 
now  that  she  faced  her  problem  squarely. 
Perhaps  she  could  help  David  at  the 
Clinic.  Certainly — though  it  would  in  no 
sense  be  work — she  could  be  of  some  use 
to  Felicia,  David's  daughter.  Felicia's  life 
had  been  tragic,  too.  David's  marriage  to 
her  mother  had  been  bitterly  unhappy, 
and  Felicia  had  known  that  her  mother 
was  the  cause  of  it.  She'd  felt  a  terrible 
guilt  because  she  could  feel  no  grief  when 
her  mother  was  killed  in  an  accident. 
Julie  had  been  able  to  help  her  then,  and 
Felicia  adored  her  now.  She  could  give 
Felicia  something  of  the  capacity  a  wom- 
an needs,  for  loving  without  reward. 

She  heard  footsteps,  and  a  moment 
later  the  doorbell  rang.  She  went  to  an- 
swer it.  The  footsteps  were  Felicia's.  She 
came  often  to  see  Julie,  dashing  in  and  out 
with  a  heartwarming  confidence  in  being 
welcome.  But,  when  Julie  opened  the  door, 
she  was  astonished  at  the  doleful  look  on 
Felicia's   face. 

"I — I  came  to  ask  you  something,"  said 
Felicia  in  a  strained  voice.  "It's — rather 
important.  I  don't  know  what  to 
think  ..." 

"I'm  about  to  have  my  second  cup  of 
coffee,"  said  Julie,  smiling.  "Come  in 
and  tell  me  and  think  it  out  as  you  talk." 

"Th-thanks,"  Felicia  said  hesitantly. 
"I  can  always  ask  you  anything.  This 
time,  perhaps  I  shouldn't.  But — you're  the 
one  person  in  the  world  I  know  will  al- 
ways let  me  tell  the  whole  truth  and  not 
blame  me." 

Julie  led  the  way  to  where  the  coffee 
pot  waited.  With  the  professional  knowl- 
edge acquired  at  Hilltop  House,  she  noted 
that  Felicia  looked  distressed,  but  not 
T  ashamed.  It  was,  then,  not  a  problem  of 
V  something  she'd  done,  but  of  something 
n    she   felt   she   should    do — and    didn't   like. 

"One  good  way  to  face  the  truth  is  to 
say  it,"  she  observed.  "Sit  here,  Felicia. 
64 


I'll    get    a    cup    of    hot    coffee    for    you." 

She  did.  In  even  that  brief  moment,  she 
made  her  decision.  She  would  ask  David 
if  she  could  join  him  at  the  Clinic  for 
Potential  Delinquents.  They  were  friends 
and  could  work  together,  without  con- 
straint, at  something  they  both  considered 
the  most  important  work  in  the  world.  She 
could  turn  the  dreary  time  of  waiting 
for  Phil  into  a  time  of  accomplishment. 
And  to  guide  even  one  child  away  from 
the  desperate  unhappiness  of  meaningless 
revolt  would  be  justification  and  payment 
for  her  postponement  of  happiness  with 
Phil. 

She  poured  coffee  for  Felicia  and  sat 
down.  She  found  herself  smiling.  When 
she'd  heard  Felicia's  problem,  she'd  tell 
her  of  the  decision  just  made.  It  would 
be  deeply  satisfying.  David's  friendship 
and  the  work  she  knew  .  .  . 

"What's  the  trouble,  Felicia?" 

"It's  my  father,"  said  Felicia.  She  gulped, 
not  touching  the  coffee.  "He — Karen  Whit- 
field has  fallen  in  love  with  him." 

Julie  sat  very  still.  When  she  and 
David  were  thrown  together  in  the  old 
days,  by  the  work  David  did  with  the 
children  at  Hilltop  House,  she'd  had  to 
struggle  against  falling  in  love  with 
David,  herself.  His  wife  was  still  alive 
then.  It  would  be  wholly  natural  for  Kar- 
en, now  that  his  wife  was  dead  .  .  . 

"You  can't  be  sure,  Felicia,"  she  said 
gently.  But  inside  she  felt  a  sense  of 
shock.  "No  one  can  help  liking  your  father. 
You  may  be  mistaking — " 

Felicia  stammered.  She'd  seen  Karen, 
who  seemed  so  composed  and  efficient — 
she'd  seen  Karen  touch  her  father's  coat 
when  he  was  not  in  the  room.  She  saw 
Karen  longingly  kiss  its  sleeve.  And 
then  Karen  saw  that  Felicia  had  seen,  and 
went  desperately  white.  She  tried  for  a 
moment  to  pass  it  off,  and  then  plead- 
ingly asked  Felicia  not  to  tell  anyone, 
especially  her  father  .  .  . 

Julie  did  not  move.  She,  herself,  was 
going  to  marry  Phil.  There  was  no  reason 
why  Karen  and  David  should  not  marry, 
if  David  came  to  wish  it.  If  he'd  been  free 
to  marry  when  she  first  went  to  Hilltop 
House,  even  she  .  .  .  But  Karen  would  be 
good  for  David.  And  for  Felicia. 

"What  should  I  do?"  asked  Felicia  un- 
happily. She  said  with  a  sudden,  halting 
rush  of  words.  "I've — always  hoped  my 
father  would  marry  you.  Even  when  you — 
got  engaged  to  someone  else,  I — hoped 
you'd  change  your  mind.  When  you  came 
back,  the  marriage  postponed,  I — I  even 
prayed  that  you  would!  I've  been  hoping 
— oh,  so  much! — that  you  would  marry 
him  someday  because  you'd — be  so  dif- 
ferent from  my  mother  and  he'd  be  so 
happy  with  you — and  I'd  be  happy,  too!" 

Julie  hoped  she  wasn't  pale.  She  spoke 
gently.  Later — much  later — she  was  able 
to  be  amazed  that  she  had  said  just  the 
right  things  to  Felicia.  But  they  were 
right.  They  were  the  things  Felicia  was 
just  a  little  too  young  to  think  out  for 
herself,  but  which  she  could  realize 
were  right  when  Julie  said  them,  and 
which  she  would  adopt  as  a  guide. 

David,  said  Julie  quietly,  was  entitled 
to  happiness  if  the  means  to  his  happiness 
was  not  harm  to  anyone  else.  Felicia  was 
entitled  to  be  happy,  too — but  not  at  the 
cost  of  her  father's  future  joy.  Undoubted- 
ly, she  could  hinder  the  growth  of  love 
between  Karen  and  her  father.  She  could 
spoil  her  father's  happiness,  if  she  chose. 
But  she  could  not  make  him  happy.  She 
could  only  let  him  find  it  for  himself.  That 
would  be  doing  what  was  good  for  him. 
If  she  preferred  that  what  was  good  for 
him  should  be  a  certain  thing — why,  if 
it  was  not  that  thing.  .  .  . 

"You're  saying  that  I — want  him  to  be 


happy,"  Felicia  said  unsteadily.  "I  do. 
Especially  after  what  he  had  while  I  was 
growing  up.  You're  saying  that  I  can't 
decide  for  him  what  will  make  him  happy. 
And  that,  though  I  may  wish  it  were 
something  else — if  I  can't  have  what  I  want 
a  certain  way,  I  just  have  to  have  it  the 
way  it  can  be  had.  I — I  want  my  father  to 
have  what  he  deserves."  She  swallowed. 
"Only  ...  I  think  he — deserves  you." 

She  went  away,  leaving  her  coffee  un- 
touched. But  she  carried  her  head  high. 
Now  she  wouldn't  betray  Karen's  pitiful 
secret.  She  wouldn't  inject  bitterness  into 
Karen's  life,  or  David's.  If  they  married, 
she'd  try  hard  to  help.  .  .  .  She'd  grown 
a  little  more  mature  in  the  past  few  mo- 
ments. She  was  nearer  to  being  the  woman 
she  could  someday  be. 

Julie  continued  to  sit  very  still.  Her 
second  cup  of  coffee  grew  cold  before 
her.  Her  decision  was  reversed,  now.  She 
could  no  longer  ask  to  work  with  David  at 
the  Clinic.  She  must  stand  aside  so  David 
and  Karen  would  have  their  chance  at 
happiness — if  what  they  wanted  was  each 
other.  Her  presence  at  the  Clinic  would 
mean  fear,  for  Karen.  She  would  be  tor- 
mented by  the  closeness  of  David  and 
Julie.  She  might  grow  bitter  because  of 
lost  hope. 

But  Julie  had  lost  her  one  prospect  of 
filling  with  accomplishment  the  time  she 
must  wait  for  Phil  to  meet  the  demands 
of  his  own  pride.  She  faced  again  what 
she'd  confronted  on  first  awakening. 
Months  or  even  years  of  empty  waiting, 
in  which  she  could  not  fulfill  the  need  of 
anybody,  anywhere.  Not  Phil.  Not  any 
lonely,  defiant  child.  .  .  . 

1  he  postman  came  up  the  steps  and  rang 
the  bell.  He  went  away.  Almost  numbly, 
Julie  went  to  see  what  he  had  left.  There 
was  a  single  letter — with  a  South  Ameri- 
can stamp  on  it.  Julie's  heart  leaped.  Then 
it  sank  again.  The  handwriting  on  the 
envelope  was  not  Phil's.  Foreboding  as- 
sailed her.  Her  hands  shook  as  she  tore  it 
open. 

The  letter  was  from  that  Dolores  who 
had  been  Phil's  sweetheart  once  upon  a 
time,  but  who  had  not  been  able  to 
reawaken  his  love.  With  bitterness,  be- 
cause she  was  writing  to  the  woman  Phil 
did  love — but  with  grief  besides — she 
told  Julie  what  had  happened  to  Phil. 
He  had  accepted  a  charter  for  his  re- 
paired cargo  plane  (which,  Dolores  said, 
now  seemed  to  have  been  arranged  by 
his  brother  Lloyd).  He'd  taken  off.  He  did 
not  land  at  his  destination.  He  was  miss- 
ing. But  there  were  rumors  that  he'd 
crashed  in  the  jungle,  and  that  his  burned 
plane  and  perhaps  his  body  had  been 
found  by  the  Indians  of  a  remote  jungle 
village.  Dolores  told  Julie  drearily  that 
she  herself  believed  the  plane  had  been 
sabotaged.    Lloyd. 

Like  an  automaton,  Julie  found  herself 
climbing  the  stairs  to  her  bedroom.  Like 
a  robot,  she  found  herself  pulling  out  a 
suitcase.  Without  any  conscious  mental 
process,  she  found  herself  packing.  She 
knew,  without  deciding  at  all,  that  she 
was  going  to  South  America.  She  was 
going  to  find  the  Indian  village — however 
remote  or  savage  it  might  be — near  which 
Phil  had  crashed.  She  was  going  to  find 
Phil. 

A  little  while  since,  she  felt  she  had  re- 
learned  the  lesson  of  courage.  Now  she 
knew  she  had  not.  She  could  face  the 
possibility  that  in  that  village  she  might 
find  Phil  crippled  or  hideously  disfigured. 
She  would  not  care.  But  she  couldn't  let 
her  mind  dwell  for  the  fraction  of  an  in- 
stant on  the  fact  that  he  might  be  dead. 

She  couldn't  face  that!    She  couldn't! 

She  packed  for  traveling,  forcing  her 
mind  to  the  immediate  task  at  hand.  .  .  . 


Keeping  Up  With  The  Joneses 


(Continued  from  page  50) 
in  much  the  same  manner  and  with  as 
much  love  as  he  spends  on  his  own  brood 
of  four:  Melody,  8;  Ricky,  5%;  and  the 
twins,  Jennafer  and  Jeffrey,  born  August 
21,  1955. 

But,  with  four  in  his  brood  at  home, 
Dick  would  be  the  first  to  agree  that  here 
the  resemblance  between  Buffalo  Bill,  Jr. 
and  Dick  Jones  ends.  "There  is  absolutely 
nothing,"  says  Dick,  "that  compares  with 
the  experience  of  running  a  home  with 
four  children  in  it  .  .  .  unless  it's  the  ex- 
perience of  a  home  with  five  children.  .  .  . 

"Take  this  morning,  for  example,"  Dick 
grins.  "My  wife  went  to  a  fashion  show, 
and  I'm  left  with  the  duty.  Unfortunately, 
Melody,  who  acts  like  a  second  mother, 
is  down  with  the  mumps.  While  trying  to 
show  Rick  how  to  build  a  castle  out  of 
blocks,  and  potty-train  Jennafer,  and  run 
a  bath  for  Jeff,  and  squeeze  juice  for 
Melody,  I've  got  my  hands  full. 

"Great  man  that  he  was,  I'm  not  sure 
even  Buffalo  Bill,  Senior,  could  have 
handled  it.  I  don't  know  how  Betty  man- 
ages-7— yet,  when  I'm  away  on  tour  and 
she's  here  alone  with  the  four  of  them, 
Betty  runs  this  little  bungalow  like  a 
well-oiled  sewing  machine." 

.  Dick  and  Betty  met  when  he  was  fifteen 
years  old  and  she  thirteen.  "You  know  the 
old  saying,"  smiles  Dick.  "  'I  saw  this 
girl  and  right  away  knew  that  she  was 
the  one  for  me.'  That's  the  way  I  felt  about 
Betty.  I  was  sitting  in  Sherman's  Record 
Bar,  over  on  Wilshire  Boulevard,  with 
Gwynn  Bacon.  We  were  listening  to  'That 
Old  Black  Magic'  when  Betty  walked  in 
and  picked  up  a  'Peter  and  the  Wolf 
album.  I  thought  she  was  cute.  Seeing  the 
album  title,  I  decided  to  be  real  funny 
and  whistle  like  a  wolf.  Nudging  Gwynn, 


I  said,  'Hey,  boy,  look  at  that  dish  .  .  .' 
and  he  said,  'Aw,  don't  bother  me — she's 
just  my  sister.' " 

Betty  says  that,  at  the  time,  she  thought 
Dick  was  too  "Hollywood."  Dick  remem- 
bers that  getting  that  first  date  wasn't 
easy.  "Betty  wouldn't  go  out  with  me,"  he 
blushes.  "I  don't  think  I  had  a  very  good 
reputation  in  junior  high  school.  Don't 
misunderstand  ...  I  didn't  get  into  any 
trouble.  But,  because  I  was  working  stead- 
ily, I  had  a  car  of  my  own — that,  at  only 
fourteen.  Today,  you  have  to  be  at  least 
sixteen.  Even  in  those  days,  a  boy  with 
a  car  at  fourteen  was  looked  on  as  a  hot- 
rod kid.  Yet  I  had  to  use  it  to  take  me  to 
the  Valley  and  back  and  forth  to  the 
studios. 

"I  finally  had  to  twist  her  brother's  arm 
— not  literally,  of  course — to  get  him  to 
help  me  get  a  date.  Betty  finally  agreed  to 
go  to  a  Hi-Y  dance,  on  the  stipulation 
that  we  double-date  with  Gwynn.  He 
was  the  Hi-Y  president,  and  I  was  a  mem- 
ber. Once  there,  I  naturally  wanted  to  'be 
alone'  with  my  date  and  cooked  up  some 
story  so  that  we  finally  lost  brother 
Gwynn.  Betty  was  kind  of  upset.  But 
when  I  took  her  for  a  drive,  bought  her  a 
Coke  and  me  a  cup  of  coffee — had  to  look 
like  the  'older  man,'  don't  you  know — and 
then  straight  home,  why,  she  decided  I 
was  a  gentleman,  after  all. 

"There's  never  been  anybody  else  in 
my  life  but  Betty,"  Dick  says  proudly.  We 
went  out  every  Friday  and  Saturday  night 
from  then  on,  mostly  to  dances  and  foot- 
ball games.  Then  she  used  to  come  over 
to  my  house  to  play  monopoly,  and  I  went 
over  to  hers  to  play  canasta.  She  always 
beat  me,"  he  grins. 

"Then  we  were  separated  for  two  years," 
Betty     sorrowfully     continues     describing 


their  courtship,  "when  Dick  went  to  New 
York  to  do  the  Henry  Aldrich  show.  Oh, 
you  know  how  teenagers  ache  when  they 
are  in  love  and  separated!  Goodness,  we 
wrote  to  one  another  every  day,  it  seems. 

"Our  romance  really  got  serious  when 
Dick  returned — he  was  going  to  Glendale 
Junior  College  and  I  was  at  Los  Angeles 
J.  C.  On  the  night  of  November  21,  1947— 
I'll  remember  the  day  till  I  die — he  popped 
the  question.  We  were  at  the  Cocoanut 
Grove,  when  all  of  a  sudden  he  brought 
out  the  ring!  I  was  so  surprised  I  could 
only  say,  'Yes  .  .  .'  We  can't  help  it,  I 
guess,  but  we  are  both  so  sentimental,  it's 
foolish  ...  so  we  set  the  date  then  and 
there  for  April  ninth.  That  was  the  day 
we  first  started  going  together — neither 
of  us  had  forgotten. 

"We  were  married  at  the  Hollywood 
Christian  Church.  Dick's  aunt's  husband 
was  his  best  man.  We  had  identical  gold 
bands  made,  and  today  I've  yet  to  take 
off  my  wedding  ring — though  the  engage- 
ment ring  comes  off  for  the  dishes.  Poor 
Dick  has  been  doing  so  much  stunt  work 
since  our  marriage  that  his  hands  have 
changed,  what  with  broken  knuckles  and 
so  forth.  So  he  can't  wear  his  wedding 
ring  on  the  third  finger — wears  it  on  his 
little  finger  instead,  and  is  never  without 
it  unless  he's  in  some  sort  of  a  fight  scene." 

Dick  has  had  a  rugged  life  as  an  actor 
ever  since  he  was  a  child.  As  a  youngster, 
he  worked  consistently  in  Westerns  be- 
cause he  could  do  his  own  horse  and  stunt 
work.  There  was  the  wagon  wreck  with 
Errol  Flynn  in  "Virginia  City,"  where  for 
seconds  it  seemed  as  if  Dick  were  about  to 
lose  his  life,  but  was  jerked  out  of  danger 
at  the  last  instant.  And,  in  a  Wild  Bill 
Elliott  picture,  Dick  did  a  horse  fall  -in 
front  of  a  stampede  with  a  quick  "pick  up" 


How  to  have  Beautiful  Skin  now— and  the 

rest  of  your  life! 


The  secret  of  an  alluring,  ever  youthful  com- 
plexion: wash  it  properly  at  least  twice  a  day 
with  Cuticura  Soap. 

Of  all  leading  soaps,  there  is  none  milder 
than  gentle,  fragrant  Cuticura  Soap.  Uniquely 
superemollient,  it  helps  maintain  the  natural 
moisture  of  the  skin,  helps  protect  and  preserve 
its  smoothness. 

Blackheads,  externally  caused  pimples,  oily 
shine  or  flaky  dryness  call  for  Cuticura  Oint- 
ment—along with  Cuticura  Soap— to  soften  and 
gently  stimulate  as  it  helps  relieve. 

In  just  7  days  you'll  begin  to  see  unbeliev- 
able new  softness,  freshness  and  radiance.  Do 
try  Cuticura  Soap  and  Ointment. 

Send  lOtf  (no  stamps)  to  cover  mailing 
for  generous  trial  size  Cuticura  Soap 
and  Squeeze  Bottle  Shampoo  plus 
folder  "New  Way  to  Wash  Your 
Face."  Write  Cuticura,  Dept.  XS- 
79,  Maiden  48,  Mass. 


/fiiftcurat 


uticura 

Wishing  won't  help  your  skin — Cuticura  will!         ge 


— again  just  in  the  nick  of  time.  The  stu- 
dios loved  Dick.  When  he  worked,  they 
didn't  have  to  hire  a  double. 

Dick  is  at  home  on  a  horse  because  he's 
been  part  of  Western  show  business  ever 
since  he  was  three  years  old.  He  was  born 
Richard  P.  Jones  in  Snyder,  Texas,  some 
twenty-five  years  ago,  and  his  mother  had 
him  trick -riding  and  roping — and  playing 
a  ukulele — when  he  was  three-and-a-half. 
"My  mother  taught  me  all  the  stunts,"  says 
Dick  wonderingly,  "and,  to  this  day,  I've 
been  trying  to  figure  out  where  she  learned 
them." 

At  four,  Dick  had  a  pet  black  pony.  "He 
was  no  bigger  than  a  shepherd  dog,"  he 
reminisces.  "Used  to  follow  me  around 
like  a  pup — even  came  into  the  house.  We 
trained  him  to  do  all  sorts  of  tricks,  but 
later  sold  him  to  a  rodeo.  I  was  sorry  to 
see  him  go.  A  bit  later  I  had  me  a  spotted 
mare,  ten  hands  tall,  that  I  did  all  my 
tricks  on.  One  dark  night,  coming  home 
from  a  show  and  parade,  I  was  cutting 
across  the  back  pasture  and  we  got  tan- 
gled up  with  a  cow  on  a  stake  chain.  Poor 
horse  broke  a  leg  and  I  almost  broke  my 
neck. 

"In  those  days,  it  seems  something  was 
always  happening  to  me.  Temporarily 
without  a  horse,  I  turned  to  putting  on 
impromptu  rodeos  with  the  dairy  cows  on 
the  farm  behind  us.  I'd  round  up  all  the 
kids  in  the  neighborhood  and  we'd  take  to 
roping  and  riding  the  milk  cows  and  just 
generally  raising  Cain  in  the  dairy.  Farm- 
er was  right  irritated." 

When  Dick  was  only  four-and-a-half — 
and  working  a  Dallas  rodeo — cowboy  star 
Hoot  Gibson  said  those  classical  words, 
"You  ought  to  be  in  pictures."  His  mother 
was  all  for  it  and,  by  the  time  Dick  turned 
five,  he  was  settled  on  Hoot's  ranch  in 
Saugus,  California.  "There,"  Dick  recalls, 
"I  rode  Tumbleweed,  the  greatest  bucking 
horse  in  the  world.  Tumbleweed  and  I 
would  trot  from  the  ranch  to  the  rodeo, 
about  a  mile- and- a-half  down  the  road. 
I'd  be  on  him  in  the  Grand  Entry,  then 
we'd  put  him  in  the  bucking  chute — where 
he'd  go  out  and  promptly  buck  off  his 
rider.  Then  I'd  get  back  aboard  and  non- 
chalantly ride  him  back  to  the  barn. 

"While  I  lived  with  Hoot,"  Dick  con- 
tinues, "he  took  me  around  to  the  studios. 
My  first  role  was  in  a  Warner  Bros,  pic- 
ture called  'Wonder  Bar.'  For  a  week,  I 
was  one  of  the  angels  flying  around  Stage 
13  on  a  wire — eating  watermelon.  I  later 
made  eleven  pictures  with  Buck  Jones.  I 
never  made  a  picture  with  Hoot. 

"There's  one  thing  that  Betty  and  I 
agree  on  for  our  children,"  Dick  says  seri- 
ously. "We  hope  they  won't  want  to  be 
performers — at  least,  child  performers.  I 
think  it's  too  hard  on  a  youngster.  I  know 
from  my  own  experience.  With  working 
most  of  the  time,  and  moving  from  school 
to  school,  I  had  little  chance  to  make 
friends.  And  youngsters  all  have  a  need 
to  belong  to  a  group. 

"It  may  be  easy  for  some  kids,  but  it  was 
tough  for  me.  I  didn't  want  to  go  to  a  pro- 
fessional school,  either — that  would  only 
make  me  all  the  more  'different.'  I  wanted 
to  go  to  public  school  and  lead  a  normal 
life  like  the  other  kids  on  the  block.  To- 
day, I  still  have  a  hard  time  accepting  my- 
self as  an  actor.  Every  once  in  a  while, 
as  I  walk  in  my  front  door,  I'll  say  to  my- 
self, 'Now  just  who  am  I?  Buffalo  Bill,  Jr. 
— or  Dick  West — or  some  character  out  of 
another  movie?  Or  am  I  Dick  Jones,  fam- 
ily man  and  father?  What's  my  name  as  I 
walk  in  the  door  of  my  own  house?'  Be- 
lieve me,  to  me  it's  a  problem  ...  I  call 

T    it  'professional  schizophrenia.' 

V        "I  think  our  faith  has  helped  us  a  great 

i!  deal  with  this  problem,"  says  Dick.  "When 
Betty  and  I  were  somewhat  younger,  I 
was  more  hotheaded.  I  didn't  like  being 

66 


called  'the  next  John  Barrymore'— not 
even  when  I  knew  I  was  being  ribbed.  But 
some  of  the  kids  in  school  gave  me  a  bad 
time.  And,  when  they  did,  Betty  said, 
'Dick,  you  simply  give  those  people  a 
Christian  witness  and  they  will  leave  you 
alone  .  .  .'  So  our  religion  has  become  the 
bulwark  of  our  family." 

Betty  and  Dick  belong  to  the  Hollywood 
Christian  Group,  made  up  mostly  of 
Hollywood  performers,  and,  once  they  had 
joined,  found  they  couldn't  get  enough  to 
satisfy  their  spiritual  hunger.  Dick  is  now 
on  the  group's  board  of  directors,  and 
their  week  revolves  around  its  meetings. 
"Betty  belongs  to  a  Christian  sorority,"  he 
says,  "goes  to  a  weekly  breakfast,  holds 
two  prayer  meetings  each  week  with  the 
folks  in  the  neighborhood,  and  goes  to 
church  on  Sunday.  I  go  to  the  Wednesday- 
morning  breakfast,  to  Friday-night  group 
meetings  and — if  I'm  not  on  the  road — to 
church  on  Sunday." 

Despite  road  trips,  Dick  has  been  home 
for  the  birth  of  all  four  of  his  and  Betty's 
children.  "I  was  new  at  the  game  when 
Melody  arrived,"  he  smiles,  "but  I'm  an 
old  hand  now!  When  Melody  was  due,  we 
had  an  apartment  down  near  U.S.C.  One 
morning,  about  three  A.M.,  Betty  nudged 
me  in  the  back,  saying,  'I  think  you  better 


'People  (fauty  'Ptatet 
GISELE  MacKENZIE 

Star  of  Her  Own  New  Show 

RAYMOND  BURR 

Your  TV  "Perry  Mason" 

JACK  LINKLETTER 

Following  in  Art's  Footsteps 

SHERRY  JACKSON 

"Daddy"  Thomas's  Teenager 
in  the  OCTOBER  issue  of 

TV  RADIO  MIRROR 

on  sale  September  5 


call  the  doctor.'  Our  first  baby  was  almost 
here!  I  was  running  around  the  house  try- 
ing to  get  dressed,  trying  to  get  Betty 
ready,  trying  to  call  the  doctor — and  not 
doing  a  very  complete  job  of  anything. 

"I'd  heard  that  if  you  held  a  white  hand- 
kerchief out  the  window  of  the  automo- 
bile, if  a  police  officer  saw  you,  he  would 
understand  it  was  a  maternity  case  and 
lead  you  to  the  hospital.  At  three  o'clock 
in  the  morning,  we  didn't  see  any  police 
officers  but  a  couple  of  folks  we  passed 
must  have  thought  I  was  crazy  driving 
sixty  miles  an  hour  with  one  hand  out 
the  window.  To  say  the  least,  I  was  pretty 
excited  about  our  first-born. 

"For  Ricky,  I  was  calm,  cool  and  col- 
lected," he  insists.  "I  was  just  going  down 
to  the  barn  to  work  my  horse,  when  Betty 
said  again,  'You'd  better  call  the  doctor.' 
We  took  Melody  along  with  us,  but  the 
doctor  said  the  baby  wouldn't  arrive  until 
1:30.  Melody  was  disappointed  with  the 
wait,  finally  lost  patience  and  said,  'I  can't 
wait  any  longer  ...  I  want  to  go  out  and 
play.'  So  I  took  her  over  to  her  grand- 
mother's house,  came  back  about  one.  At 
1:35,  the  doctor  announced  over  the  PA 


system,  'Come  upstairs,  Dick,  and  look  at 
your  new  son.' 

"Then,  the  day  the  twins  arrived — talk 
about  excitement!  August  21,  1955,  was  the 
greatest  day  in  our  life.  I  was  supposed  to 
work  the  Coliseum  Rodeo,  but  I  had  a 
sneaking  suspicion  that  something  might 
happen  early,  so  I  withdrew.  Sure  enough, 
at  ten  A.M.,  Betty  gave  me  the  signal.  We 
got  to  the  hospital  in  minutes,  and  the  first 
baby  was  born  at  12:35,  the  second  at 
12:40.  With  it  all,  Betty  had  an  easy  time 
with  the  twins.  Me,  I'm  not  sure  I've  re- 
covered yet. 

"Melody  was  proud  as  punch  of  the 
twins.  She's  a  great  little  mother,"  says 
Dick.  Betty  adds,  "For  a  while,  young 
Rick  felt  left  out  of  things.  But  we  spent  a 
great  deal  of  time  with  him.  Dick,  for  ex- 
ample, takes  him  to  the  lumber  yard  to 
pick  out  wood  for  a  continuing  do-it- 
yourself  project  he  has  going  on  in  our 
rather  small  Burbank  home — eleven  hun- 
dred square  feet  was  never  meant  for  a 
family  of  six!  And  they'll  work  on  Dick's 
miniature  boats  together,  or  in  the  lathe 
house  in  back — Dick  was  a  carpenter  after 
his  Army  career  in  the  war.  When  we  go 
camping,  Rick  collects  the  firewood,  Dick 
builds  the  fire  and  catches  the  fish.  Camp- 
ing is  a  community  affair. 

"But  most  important,"  she  continues, 
"Dick  takes  young  Rick  with  him  to  the 
stables  to  work  his  horse  'He's  A  Dandy.' 
Rick  thinks  his  dad  is  the  greatest  hero 
since  George  Washington,  and,  when  he 
watches  his  dad  on  'Dan,'  he  gets  a  wor- 
shipping look  in  his  eyes.  He  even  tries  to 
dress  like  Dick,  in  levis  and  Western  shirts 
— when  we  go  shopping,  Rick  always 
wants  one  'just  like  Dad's.'  I  know  we're 
going  to  have  a  hard  time  keeping  him 
from  becoming  anything  but  a  cowboy. 
Already,  he  can  jump  and  leap  around  like 
an  Indian  and,  being  imitative,  can  do  al- 
most as  many  tricks  as  his  dad. 

"But,  more  than  anything,"  continues 
Betty,  "Dick  and  I  would  like  to  encourage 
the  children  to  lead  a  Christian  life.  For 
example,  in  trying  to  teach  them  about 
the  Bible,  we  have  verse  cards  in  a  dish  at 
the  table  which  they  draw  out  to  read  be- 
fore each  meal.  Here  is  one,  for  example, 
Proverbs  3,  verse  9:  'Honor  the  Lord  with 
thy  substance.'  They  read  one  of  these 
biblical  verses  and  then  we  discuss  it,  try- 
ing to  bring  out  what  it  means  to  them  in 
particular.  We  try  to  illustrate  the  verse 
in  terms  of  their  own  experience,  in  terms 
of  the  problems  they  now  face  in  school. 

"We  always  say  our  prayers  at  night, 
before  we  go  to  bed,  and  a  grace  before 
each  meal.  We  sometimes  have  a  round- 
robin  at  the  table  where  the  children  make 
up  their  own  thanks  as  we  go  around.  In 
the  evening  prayer,  Dick  and  I  generally 
begin  first,  trying  to  give  them  an  idea  of 
some  of  the  things  they  might  want  to  in- 
clude— then  they  are  on  their  own.  They 
pray  for  all  their  little  friends,  and  for 
Daddy  when  he  is  away.  One  time,  Ricky, 
then  only  two-and-a-half,  said,  'Please, 
God,  take  care  of  my  pal  Robbie's  dead 
dog  ...  he  was  one  of  my  friends.'  That's 
the  sort  of  thing  that  makes  you  feel  your 
effort  pays  off. 

"Above  all,"  says  Betty  Jones,  "we 
never  try  to  judge  their  prayers,  to  criti- 
cize their  content  or  correct  their  phrase- 
ology. We  simply  want  them  to  learn  that 
they  can  go  to  God,  that  He  is  with  them 
all  the  time  .  .  . 

"We  feel  God  has  blessed  us  with  a  'big 
family.'  And  there  is  nothing  to  our  minds 
more  pure  and  cherished  .  .  .  more  inno- 
cent and  closer  to  God  .  .  .  than  little  chil- 
dren. So,  you  see,  our  family  has  made  us 
feel  very  close  to  our  God;  and  our  one 
goal  in  life  is  the  hope  that  well  be  able 
to  teach  them  each  day  to  live  as  He  would 
want  them  to." 


Three's  the  Most! 


(Continued  from  page  36) 
became  a  trio.  And  they  were  close 
enough  in  age  to  catch  hand-me-down 
clothes.  "I  was  always  jealous  of  Chris," 
Dot  confesses.  "She  always  had  the  new 
clothes  and  I  had  to  take  her  hand-me- 
downs."  Phyl  adds,  "Then  Dotty  would 
pass  them  on  to  me.  I  was  jealous  of  Dot 
because  I  got  them  third-hand." 

"And  how  about  the  fudge  business?" 
Phyl  continues.  "To  this  day,  I  can't  for- 
give Chris  and  Dot  for  being  so  high- 
handed. I  always  got  the  smidgins.  You 
see,  when  we  were  very  small,  Chris 
would  make  fudge.  She  was  always  a 
good  cook.  I  remember  when  I  was  in 
grade  school,  when  sugar  was  rationed 
during  the  war  and  it  was  hard  to  get 
chocolate,  mother  would  give  us  permis- 
sion to  make  candy  once  a  week.  Some- 
times we  made  it  without  permission. 
Well,  anyway,  because  I  was  the  young- 
est, I  got  the  thin  bits  of  fudge.  Chris 
would  pour  the  fudge  in  a  plate  and  when 
she  cut  it  v/e  all  got  the  same  number  of 
pieces  but  I  got  the  outside,  shallow  bits 
and  they  got  the  big,  thick  center  hunks!" 

"We  had  our  side,  too,"  Dotty  notes. 
"Someone  had  to  go  to  the  store  and  get 
the  stuff,  and  she  wouldn't  go.  We'd  ask 
her  to  butter  the  plate  or  help  wash  up. 
She  wouldn't  do  her  share." 

"Oh,  I  was  the  baby,"  Phyl  explains 
airily,  "and  I  shouldn't  have  had  to  do  all 
that.   I  was  in  the  first  grade." 

Understandably,  Chris  was  the  plump 
one  in  those  days.  And  she  had  the  wan- 
derlust. First  up  in  the  morning,  she'd 
trudge  down  Main  Street  to  the  highway 
in  her  pajamas,  all  set  to  travel.  Dot  was 
"mother's  perfect  child" — until  she  was 
nine  and  took  to  the  trees  with  a  Tarzan 
complex.    Phyl,   at  the  age   of  six,   began 


to  "propose  and  elope"  almost  daily.  The 
girls  began  to  sing  together  in  their  tender 
years,  but  this  was  just  for  family  fun. 
In  their  teens,  they  sang  publicly  at  church 
meetings,  weddings  and  similar  gatherings. 
In  1950,  they  made  a  nine-month  tour  of 
Army  camps.  This  was  perhaps  the  turn- 
ing point  in  their  lives.  On  this  tour, 
hospitalized  veterans  requested  popular 
songs  and  the  girls  tried  to  please.  They 
had  never  before  sung  anything  but  re- 
ligious music  in  public.  In  1951,  they  had 
their  own  TV  show  and  sang  with  Karl 
Taylor's  orchestra  in  Dayton.  In  late  1951, 
they  came  to  New  York,  made  eight  ap- 
pearances with  Kate  Smith,  won  a  Talent 
Scouts  show  in  December — and,  a  month 
later,  in  January  of  1952,  became  regulars 
on  the  Arthur  Godfrey  programs. 

"Of  course,  we  were  always  together  as 
sisters,"  Chris  says.  "But,  since  1949,  I'd 
say  we've  been  together  from  breakfast 
to  evening  or  late  night  continuously.  The 
longest  we've  ever  been  separated  has 
been  for  a  weekend — and  that  not  very 
often,  since  most  one-night  bookings  fall 
on  Friday  and  Saturday." 

All  kinds  of  silly,  mixed-up  things  have 
happened  to  the  McGuires,  for  these  can 
be  three  delirious  damozels.  There  was  the 
time  they  missed  two  planes  out  of  the 
Pittsburgh  Airport — although  they  were 
on  the  field  all  the  time.  Phyl  recalls: 
"The  three  of  us  were  on  our  first  engage- 
ment out  of  New  York  City  and  we  had 
to  change  planes  in  Pittsburgh.  We  were 
told  we  had  fifteen  minutes  there,  and  we 
saw  one  of  those  places  that  sell  those 
interesting,  creamy-whipped  cones.  We 
rushed  up  to  the  place  where  they  were 
sold,  and  had  to  stand  in  line  because 
there  were  so  many  people  ahead  of  us. 
We  finally  got  the   cones — and,  when  we 


went  back  to  the  plane,  it  had  gone.  We 
were  told  we  had  a  half-hour  wait  and 
then  we  missed  that  one,  too — beeause  we 
were  so  busy  looking  around  and  so  un- 
conscious of  time." 

Yet  the  McGuire  Sisters,  like  others  who 
work  in  radio  and  television,  are  literally 
slaves  to  the  clock.  They  must  stick  to  a 
merciless  schedule,  day  after  day,  to  make 
rehearsals,  air  time,  fittings,  interviews, 
business  meetings,  recording  sessions.  The 
clock  is  their  master  from  the  moment 
they  awake. 

In  Manhattan,  Dot  and  Phyl  live  to- 
gether in  a  duplex  apartment.  Chris  lives 
a  few  blocks  north  with  her  husband,  John 
Teeter,  and  her  two  boys  (when  they  are 
home  from  school) .  While  the  girls  don't 
congregate  until  after  breakfast,  they  talk 
on  the  phone  as  soon  as  they're  awake. 
"This  is  the  way  it  is  in  the  morning," 
says  Phyl.  "Dot  is  sleeping  in  her  bed- 
room and  I  in  mine.  First  thing  you  know, 
the  telephones  begin  ringing." 

"I  have  the  service  call  me  to  wake  me 
up,"  Dot  interrupts  to  explain,  "and  al- 
ways have  them  call  back  fifteen  minutes 
later.  I'm  trying  to  kid  myself  into  think  - 
ink  I'm  sleeping  overtime." 

"Nothing  helps  me  when  I  wake  up," 
Phyl  continues.  "Not  a  shower,  and  not 
breakfast.  When  I  see  the  sun,  I  feel  bet- 
ter— but  that's  all.  So  I  keep  quiet  in  the 
morning.  I  don't  talk  when  Chris  calls. 
Dot  gets  on  the  phone,  and  she  and  Dot 
decide  what  we'll  wear.  I  just  listen  in  on 
their  conversation  so  that  I  know  what  I 
have  to  wear.  I  grumble  downstairs  to 
the  coffee  pot  and,  pretty  soon,  Dot  comes 
down,  too.  We  haven't  exchanged  a  word. 
Then  we  go  upstairs  and  dress.  Chris 
calls  again  to  change  something  we  were 
to  wear.    Usually,  the  first  words  Dot  and 


TO  LOOK  LOVELY 
THOUGH  EFFICIENT 


Trust  young  moderns  to  find  a  way  ...  a  way  to  crowd  into 
one  short  day  all  the  taxiing,  mothering,  clubbing,  gardening 
and  housekeeping,  and  still  meet  him  at  5:30  looking  lovely.  It 
takes  smart  planning,  even  to  your  make-up  .  .  .  Magic  Touch. 
This  blessedly  simple  aid  to  loveliness  is  a  creamy  compact.  A 
fingertip   does   it,    in    seconds— hides   the   freckle   and   bump, 
freshens  the  color,  adds  the  fresh,  young  look.  But  more, 
it  lubricates,  protects  your  skin  all  day— ends 
tedious  bedtime  creaming.  It's  a  natural  for 
today's  casual  living  —  the  easy  way  to  be 
effortlessly  lovely,  even  on  busiest  days. 
You  get  Magic  Touch  at  all  variety  stores 
and  better  drug  stores,  and  pay  only  45^ 
or  $1.00.  Hard  to  believe,  'til  you  look 
in  your  mirror!  It's  made  for  the  modern  Th    M  k 

woman -people  like  you! -by  Campana.  ,„     C     aKe"uP 

of  Young 

Moderns 


67 


New  Patterns 
for  You 


9000— Trim,  side-buttoned  dress  for 
half-sizers.  Smart  squared  neckline, 
handy    pockets.    Printed    Pattern    in 

Sizes  14i/2-24y2.  Size  16i/2  takes  3% 
yards  35-inch  fabric.  State  size.  35$ 

9213 — Neat  fashion  for  any  season. 
Vary  neckline  from  scoop  version  to 
collared  style.  Printed  Pattern  in 
Misses'  Sizes  12-20;  4046.  Size  18  takes 
5%  yards  35-inch  fabric.  State  size.  35$ 

9361— Jiffy-cut  Printed  Pattern.  Paper 
Pattern  is  all  in  one  piece;  pin  to 
fabric,  cut  each  entire  apron  at  once. 
Three  styles  included.  Each  takes  just 
one  yard  35-inch  fabric.  Misses'  Me- 
dium Size  only.  35$ 


9000 

SIZES 
141/2-24'/J 


9361 

ONE  SIZE 

MEDIUM 


S3 

Cock 

One  y<*d35" 


T 
V 
R 

68 


Send  thirty-five  cents  (in  coin)  for  each  pattern  to:  TV  Radio  Mirror,  Pattern  Depart- 
ment, P.  O.  Box  137,  Old  Chelsea  Station,  New  York  11,  New  York.  Add  five  cents  for 
each    pattern    for    first-class    mailing.    Be    sure    to    specify    pattern    number    and    size. 


I  exchange  are  after  we  have  dressed  and 
had  breakfast  and  are  leaving  the  apart- 
ment to  get  into  Chris's  car  to  go  to  the 
studio.  Then  we  officially  start  the  day 
by  saying,  'Good  morning.' " 

The  big  headache  is  always  the  fight 
with  time.  Not  one  but  three  must  have 
nails  manicured,  hair  dressed,  clothes 
fitted.  If  all  favor  one  masseuse — as  they 
do — then  it  becomes  three  times  as  hard 
to  set  up  an  appointment,  for  each  must 
go  at  a  different  time,  and  that  means  three 
hours  lost,  rather  than  one. 

"Most  of  our  arguments  are  over  the 
schedule,"  Chris  says.  "I  have  a  hair  ap- 
pointment and  Phyllis  has  one,  too — but 
at  a  different  time.  We  all  know  that  the 
most  important  thing  is  rehearsal,  and  we 
can't  give  that  up.  We'll  walk  down  the 
street  arguing  over  who  will  give  up  the 
appointment  so  that  we'll  have  that  extra 
hour  for  rehearsing.  Cab  drivers  always 
say  that  they've  often  wondered  if  we 
were  really  sisters,  but  when  they  hear 
us  argue  they  know  that  we  are!" 

Actually,  the  girls  try  to  coordinate 
their  activities  as  well  as  complement  one 
another.  Dotty  saves  time  by  lending  her 
body  to  the  fittings  for  all  three.  The 
girls'  measurements  are  almost  exactly 
the  same,  and  so  this  is  practical.  Dot 
also  pays  the  cab  fare;  since  the  girls  may 
be  in  and  out  of  cabs  a  dozen  times  a  day, 
this  becomes  another  time-saver.  Phyl,  on 
the  other  hand,  always  picks  up  the  phone 
(except  before  breakfast).  She  sets  up 
time  for  interviews,  pictures,  rehearsals. 
Chris  has  always  done  the  shopping  for 
the  trio,  with  never  any  dissension  there. 

"Chris  buys  nine-tenths  of  all  our 
clothes,"  says  Phyl,  "and  I  mean  all.  Not 
just  gowns,  but  stockings,  underclothes, 
sport  things.  And  we  like  everything  she 
gets.  We  really  have  the  same  taste."  As 
Dotty  notes,  "We've  separated  and  visited 
the  same  stores  in  the  same  city — and 
we've  ended  up  making  almost  identical 
purchases.  That's  even  happened  with 
undies.  Of  course,  we  have  the  same  col- 
oring and  size,  so  we  wear  certain  styles." 
And  Chris  adds,  "For  example,  we  always 
buy  seamless  hose.  We  do  this  because — 
with  six  legs — there  might  be  six  crooked 
seams,  so  we  avoid  the  problem." 

The  McGuires  have  won  a  reputation 
for  being  beautifully  dressed,  but  it's  not 
all  in  the  selection  of  clothes.  Often,  the 
girls  have  helped  in  designing  their  own 
gowns.  Phyl  explains,  "Well,  take  our  last 
set  of  gowns,  that  were  actually  designed 
by  Sophie  at  Saks.  We  felt  the  gowns  had 
to  be  striking.  We  wanted  to  accomplish 
this  with  beading  and  designs,  but  it  had 
to  be  watched.  We  didn't  want  the  bead- 
ing too  heavy.  Then  we  had  two  gowns 
made  with  straight  material  but  used  in 
such  a  way  that  they  were  just  as  striking 
as  the  gowns  with  the  beading."  For 
both  sets  of  gowns,  the  McGuires  sug- 
gested the  basic  ideas  as  well  as  the  colors. 

Their  new,  full  coats  are  also  their  own 
brainchildren. 

"We  have  three  black-diamond  capes," 
says  Dot,  "long  capes  with  hoods.  We 
thought  they  might  be  chilly  without 
sleeves  and  suggested  long  mink  gloves 
to  give  the  appearance  of  sleeves.  The 
furrier  carried  the  idea  on  a  little  further. 
He  fixed  the  long  mink  gloves  so  that  we 
can  take  off  the  top  halves  and  have  three- 
quarter  size  gloves.  We  can  also  take  the 
top  halves  and  make  muffs  out  of  them  or 
a  hat  or  a  little  bow  to  use  with  suits." 

The  girls  seldom  have  to  borrow  clothes 
from  one  another.  The  exceptional  time 
was  disastrous,  as  Chris  recalls.  "I  let 
Phyl  borrow  my  mink  stole  one  night  and, 
the  next  night,  her  place  was  robbed — and 
the  stole  went  with  everything  else." 

Like  their  clothes,  their  luggage  and 
handbags  are  identical,  so  they  have  them 
initialed    to    tell    them    apart.      They    get 


oothbrushes  and  other  toiletries  in  dif- 
ferent colors,  but  try  to  keep  make-up 
simplified  and  standard.  "We  choose  lip- 
stick according  to  the  gown  we're  wear- 
ing," says  Dot,  "and  we  have  such  a 
variety  that  it  creates  quite  a  problem. 
For  our  coloring,  we  don't  like  lipsticks 
with  blue  in  them.  When  it  comes  to  fin- 
gernails, we've  stopped  using  colors,  be- 
cause of  the  quick  changes  we  must  make. 
We  use  plain  polish  so  that,  no  matter 
what  color  we  wear,  the  polish  will  not 
conflict." 

They  are  always  happy  to  stumble  on 
something  that  will  simplify  their  routines, 
for  the  average  day  is  strenuous.  They 
have  even  come  to  depend  on  one  another 
for  recreation.  As  Dot  says,  "We  really 
get  our  biggest  laughs  out  of  each  other, 
and  no  one  ever  gets  hurt." 

Phyllis — who  insists  that  she  hasn't  a 
sense  of  humor — contributes  frequently  to 
the  fun.  She's  good  at  mimicry,  not  just 
of  celebrities  but  of  everyday  people  they 
meet.  She  is  also  a  practical  joker.  "We 
had  a  doctor  friend  at  dinner  one  evening," 
Chris  recalls,  "and  Phyl  insisted  that  she 
was  getting  a  fever.  Well,  she  didn't  look 
flushed  but  he  took  her  temperature  and 
it  was  more  than  103.  Well,  he  began  to 
make  calls  to  hospitals  to  get  a  bed  for 
her,  but  the  hospitals  were  full.  He  kept 
taking  her  temperature,  thinking  there 
might  be  something  wrong  with  the  ther- 
mometer— she  showed  no  other  symptoms, 
and  even  her  pulse  was  normal.  The  doc- 
tor called  the  drug  store,  got  another 
thermometer,  took  her  temperature  again 
— and  it  was  still  up.  He  was  convinced 
that  she  was  very  ill.  Then  we  discovered 
she  was  going  into  the  kitchen  and  drink- 
ing hot  coffee  each  time  before  he  took 
her  temperature!" 

Dot  recalls,  with  a  laugh,  "That  was 
nothing  to  the  day  she  came  into  my  bed- 
room crying,  "*I've  scalded  my  face.  I'm 
scarred.'  And  her  face  did  look  awful. 
'I  did  it  with  a  scalding  washcloth,'  she 
said,  'I  didn't  mean  to  do  it.'  I  got  so 
upset — then  she  started  laughing  and  told 
me  she  had  put  raw  egg  on  her  face." 

The  girls,  so  close  for  so  many  years, 
are  extra  sensitive  to  individual  moods. 
When  one  gets  in  the  dumps,  the  other 
two  go  into  action  immediately.  Phyl  can 
be  helped  out  of  a  bad  mood  with  food — a 
basket  of  fruit  or  even  just  talk  about  a 
good  Italir  restaurant.  Chris  loves  clothes 
and  anything  new  to  wear  lifts  her  into 
the  clouds.  Dot  likes  records — a  new  Si- 
natra album,  maybe — or  a  new  book. 

Dot  is  usually  the  balance  wheel.  While 
Phyl  takes  care  of  appointments,  and  Chris 
takes  care  of  the  clothes,  Dot  takes  care 
of  her  sisters.  She  is  most  often  the 
peace-maker.  None  of  their  arguments  is 
ever  serious,  but  the  girls  will  never  sim- 
ply flip  a  coin  to  come  to  a  decision.  They 
never  give  in  to  one  another.  They  talk 
and  talk  until  they  have  reasoned  out  the 
problem.  And  they  never  part  until  the 
issue  is  settled. 

"Sisters  usually  love  one  another.  We 
do,  too,"  says  Phyl.  "But,  besides,  we 
like  one  another.  Of  course,  there  are 
times  when  we  wish  for  privacy.  We  al- 
ways know  each  other's  business.  There 
are  no  secrets.  The  one  time  Chris  tried 
to  throw  a  surprise  party  for  me,  she 
nearly  went  crazy.  It  was  impossible.  It 
was  not  a  successful  surprise — but  a  very 
successful  party." 

"When  you're  a  trio,  there  is  always 
something  exciting  going  on,"  Chris  beams, 
"or  something  exciting  going  wrong.  But, 
when  there  is  any  excitement  or  some- 
thing new  to  look  forward  to,  we  all  share 
it.  And,  when  something  goes  wrong,  you 
don't  have  to  suffer  it  out  alone." 

"There's  one  thing,  for  sure,  about  being 
a  trio,"  Dot  smiles.  "You  never  get  lone- 
some." 


OPPORTUNITIES 

for  EVERYBODY 

Publisher's  Classified   Department  (Trademark) 


For  advertising  rates,  write  to  William  R.  Stewart,  9  South  Clinton  Street,  Chicago  6  (Wont's,  Sept.)  7 


OF  INTEREST  TO  WOMEN 


MAKE  $1000  BETWEEN  now  and  Christmas.  Over  600  gifts, 
gadgets,  greeting  cards,  stationery,  and  gift  wraps.  Sell  to 
friends  and  neighbors,  spare  time  or  full  time.  Make  up  to 
100%  profit  1  Cash  in  on  our  tested  money-making  plan  for 
individuals,  clubs,  organizations.  Write  at  once.  Samples  on 
approval.  Send  For  Free  Catalog  Now!  Greetings  Unlimited, 

7-46  Park  Square,  St.  Paul,  Minnesota. 

$3,000  YEARLY  POSSIBLE,  preparing  envelopes,  postcards, 
at  homel  Typewriter — longhand.  Complete  42-page  Manu- 
script tells  "How"  with  proven,  successful  method  I  Only  $2.00 
postpaid.    Satisfaction    Guaranteed  I    Thrift,    Box    1686-W, 

Clearwater,  Florida. 

$200.  MONTHLY  POSSIBLE,  Sewing  Babywear— Play-Time 
Dresses;  lacing  Leather  Moccasins;  New  Baby  Sandals.  No 
house  selling  I  Rush  stamped,  addressed  envelope  for  details. 

Cutie  Cuties,  Warsaw  1,  Indiana. 

$500  FOR  YOUR  Child's  Picture  paid  by  advertisers.  Send 
one  small  photo  (All  ages).  Print  child's  parents'  name, 
address  on  back.  Returned  surprise  offer,  no  obligation. 
Spotlite,  8346-P9  Beverly  Blvd.,  Hollywood,  California. 
TOP  PRICES  PAID,  cutting  wanted  items  from  your  news- 
papers. Revealing  Instruction,  10cl  Economy,  Box  768,  Largo 

14,  Florida. 

HOMEWORKERS  WANTED!!  GUARANTEED  Pay!  No 
Selling!     Everything     Supplied.     Enterprises,     Box     112-A, 

Boston  22,  Massachusetts. 

$500  FOR  YOUR  child's  photo,  all  ages,  if  used  for  advertising. 
Send  photo  for  approval.  Free  gifts.  Returned  two  weeks. 
Advertisers,  6000-YI  Sunset,  Hollywood  28,  California. 
MAKE  MONEY  SEWING  At  Home.  Part  or  full  time.  We 
instruct.  Iv:  selling.  Free  details:  Jud-San,  Box  2107,  Dept. 

J-15,  Cleveland  8,  Ohio. 

MAKE  PRE-CUT  LEATHER  Items  at  Home  Profitably. 
Write  Crown  Industries,  Dept.  1,  Los  Angeles  48,  California. 
EARN  SPARETIME  CASH  Mailing  Advertising  Literature. 

Glenway,  Box  6568,  Cleveland  1,  Ohio. 

SEW  OUR  READY  cut  aprons  at  home,  spare  time,  Easy, 

profitable.  Hanky  Aprons,  Caldwell  3,  Ark. . 

EARN  $50  FAST  sewing  precut  products.   Information  3c. 

Thompson's,  Loganville,  Wisconsin. 

$10.00    EACH    PAID    For    Certain    Newspaper    Clippings! 

Newscarft,  PW-983-E.  Main,  Columbus  5,  Ohio. 

MONEY,    TYPING— SEWING!    Details    Free!    Edwards, 

391 2- W,  12th,  Pes  Moines  13,  Iowa. 

$200.  MONTHLY  REPORTED,  preparing  envelopes.  Reveal- 
ing  method,  25cl  Economy,  Box  768,  Largo  27,  Florida. 
WIVES— INCREASE  YOUR  family  income  sewing  babywear 

for  stores.  Write  Tiny-Tot,  Gallipolis  19,  Ohio. 

FOREIGN  &   U.S.A.  JOB  LISTINGS 

HIGH  PAYING  JOBS:  All  types.  Foreign,  USA.  Chance  to 
travel.  Fare  Paid.  Application  forms.  Free  information.  Write 
Dept.  102,  National   Employment  Information,  1020  Broad, 

Newark,  New  Jersey. 

AMERICAN,  OVERSEAS  JOBS,  high  pay,  Men,  Women, 
Transportation  Paid,   Free   Information,   Write  Transworld, 

200-W  West  34,  New  York  1,  N.Y. 

LOANS  BY  MAIL 

BORROW  $50  to  $500.  Employed  men  and  women  over  25, 
eligible.  Confidential — no  co-signers — no  inquiries  of  employ- 
ers or  friends.  Repay  in  monthly  payments  to  fit  your  income. 
Supervised  by  State  of  Nebraska.  Loan  application  sent  free 
in  plain  envelope.  Give  occupation.   American   Loan   Plan, 

City  National  Bldg.,  Dept.  WD-9,  Omaha,  Nebraska. 

OLD  COINS  &  MONEY  WANTED 

WE  PURCHASE  INDIANHEAD  pennies.  Complete  allcoin 
catalogue  25c.  Magnacoins,  Box  61-OP,  Whitestone  57,  N.Y. 
WE  BUY  ALL  rare  American  coins.  Complete  catalogue  25c. 

Fairview,  Box  1 1 1 6-KM,  New  York  City  8. 

BUY  IT  WHOLESALE 

BUY  WHOLESALE!  30-80%  Discounts!  Appliances,  Gifts, 
Typewriters,  Tools,  Watches,  Sporting  Goods,  Jewelry,  Cam- 
eras, Housewares,  etc.  Consolidated  Distributors,  Clifton  17, 
New  Jersey. 


MONEY  MAKING  OPPORTUNITIES 

EARN  SPARETIME  CASH— Preparing,  Mailing  Catalogs. 
Everything   Furnished.   Eljay,   20   Cazenove,    Boston,   16-A, 

Massachusetts. 

$50.00  WEEKLY  POSSIBLE  Mailing  Circulars  For  Adver- 
tisers. Complete  Instructions  25c.  Siwaslian,  4317-F  Gleane, 

Elm hu rst  73,  N.Y. 

HOMEWORKERS    WANTED    PAINTING    Novelties.    No 

Selling.  N.  Roland,  Vincentown  1,  N.J. 

$25  WEEKLY  POSSIBLE,  sparetime,  preparing  mailings  for 

advertisers.  Temple  Co.,  Muncie  2,  Indiana. 

MAKE   EXTRA    MONEY   Sparetime.    Tom   Sales,    1305-O 

North  Western,  Chicago  22. 

GUARANTEED  HOMEWORKI  IMMEDIATE  Commis- 
sionsl  Free  Outfits!  Hirsch,  1301-12  Hoe,  New  York  City  59. 
MAKE   YOUR  TYPEWRITER   Earn    Money.   Send   $1.00. 

Hughes,  7004  Diversey,  Chicago  35. 

$300.  MONTHLY  POSSIBLE  mailing  circulars.  John  Hall, 

1265-C  Broadway,  New  York  1,  N.Y. 

HELP  WANTED 

FASHION  DEMONSTRATORS— $20-$40  profit  evenings. 
No  delivering  or  collecting.  Beeline  Style  Shows  are  Party 
Plan  sensation!  Samples  furnished  Free.  Beeline  Fashions, 

Bensenville  34,  Illinois. . 

BEAUTY  DEMONSTRATORS— TO  $5.00  hour  demonstrat- 
ing Famous  Hollywood  Cosmetics,  your  neighborhood.  For 
free  samples,  details,  write  Studio  Girl,  Dept.  1679C,  Glen- 

dale,  Calif. 

HOMEWORKERS:  ASSEMBLE  HANDLACED  precut  moc- 
casins and  handbags.  Good  earnings.  California  Handicrafts, 

Los  Angeles  46-B,  California. 

IF  YOU  WANT  to  earn  money  fast,  I'll  send  you  Free  Sample 
Stocking  Of  newest  Stretch  DuPont  Nylons  to  sell  at  only  $1 

a  pair.  American  Mills,  Dept.  621,  Indianapolis  7,  Ind. 

EARN  EXTRA  MONEY  selling  Advertising  Book  Matches. 
Free  sample  kit  furnished.  Matchcorp,  Dept.  WP-41,  Chicago 

32,  Illinois. 

(HAND    PAINTERS   WANTED).    Details,    Send    Stamped 

Addressed  Envelope.  Flocraft,  Farrell  36,  Penn. 

EDUCATIONAL  OPPORTUNITIES 
COMPLETE  YOUR   HIGH  School  at  home  in  spare  time 
with  60-year-old  school.  Texts  furnished.  No  classes.  Diploma. 
Information    booklet    free.    American    School,    Dept.    X674, 

Drexel  at  58th,  Chicago  37,  Illinois. 

HIGH  SCHOOL  DIPLOMA  at  home.  Licensed  teachers. 
Approved  materials.  Southern  States  Academy,  Box  144W. 

Station  E,  Atlanta,  Georgia. 

LEARN  WHILE  ASLEEP!  Details  free.  Research  Associa- 

tion,  Box  610-WP,  Omaha. 

HOME  SEWERS  OPPORTUNITIES 
SEW  BEAUTI FU  L  FELT  Novelties.  Write  enclosing  stamp  for 
working  details.  Liebig  Industries,  Beaver  Dam  5,  Wisconsin. 
SEW   APRONS    IN    your   home,    profitably.    Write:    Adco, 
Bastrop,  Louisiana. 

AGENTS  WANTED 

60%  PROFIT  COSMETICS  $25  day  up.  Hire  others.  Samples, 
details.  Studio  Girl-Hollywood,  Glendale,  Calif.,  Dept.  1679H. 
SELL  BEAUTIFUL  PERSONALIZED  Xmas  Cards.  100% 

Profit  Deal.  Evergreen,  Box  842,  Chicago  42,  III. 

HEALTH   &  MEDICAL  SERVICE 
NEED  NEW  DENTURES?  Save  $100.  Guaranteed  Fit.  Im- 
mediate Service.  Details  Free.  Tru-Grip  Dental  Laboratory, 

Dept.  E,  127  N.  Dearborn,  Chicago,  III. 

INSTRUCTION 

HIGH  SCHOOL — No  classes.  Study  at  home.  Spare  Time. 
Diploma  awarded.  Write  for  Free  Catalog  HCH-47,  Wayne 
School,  2527  Sheffield,  Chicago  14,  III. 

MISCELLANEOUS 

WRITE  VERSE.  PUBLICATION  guaranteed  those  who  qual- 
ify. Write  immediately.  H.C.S.,  Inc.,  2307  National  Station, 

Springfield,  Missouri. 

BUSINESS  OPPORTUNITIES 

MAKE  BIG  MONEY  invisibly  mending  damaged  garments 
at  home.  Details  Free.  Fabricon,  8340-S  Prairie,  Chicago  19,  III. 


Here's  the  easiest  way  to  make  extra 

money  in  spare  time  !   Just  turn  the  pages 

of  our  handy  album  and  41  beautiful  new 

Christmas  Cards  spring  to  life!   Friends 

bay  on  sight.  New  MAGICOLOR  cards  v 

^^pay  yon  $65  profit  on  65  boxes.  Big 

1^^^  variety  of  personalized  cards.  §1.00 

1^^^  assortments, novel  gifts.  Profits tol00% 

9«F  plus  extra  cash  bonus.   24-hour  serv--3 

iy  ice.  Write  for  FREE  Album,  and  samples 

Iron  approval,  plus  FREE  Gift  Offer. 

B  SOUTHERN  GREETINGS,  Dept.  31-F 

1  478  N.Hollywood  •  Memphis  12, Tenn. 


Tense,  Nervous 

Headaches  Need 

This  Relief 

A  survey  shows  3  out  of  4  doctors  recommend  the 
famous  ingredients  of  Anacin  to  relieve  pain.  Here's 
why  Anacin®  gives  better  total  effect  in  pain  relief 
than  aspirin  or  any  buffered  aspirin: 

VH^>  ACTS  INSTANTLY:  Anacin  goes  to  work  instantly. 
Brings  fast  relief  to  source  of  your  pain. 

■■^p*  MORE  EFFECTIVE:  Anacin  is  like  a  doctor's  pre- 
scription. That  is,  Anacin  contains  not  one,  but  a 
combination  of  medically  proven  ingredients. 

Ml^p*  SAFER:    Anacin  simply  can  not  upeet  your  stomach. 

flH^p*-  LESSENS  TENSION:  Anacin  also  reduces  nervous 
tension,  leaves  you  relaxed,  feeling  fine  after 
pain  goes.   Buy  Anacin  Tablets  today! 


SHEETS,  TOASTERS, 
TOWELS,MIXERS,etc. 
GIVEN  TO  YOU  FREE! 


- 


Thousands  of  famous  prod- 
ucts to  choose  from  — furni- 
ture, fashions,  silverware, 
china,  draperies,  etc.  You 
get  $50.00  and  more  in 
merchandise  just  by  being 
Secretary  of  a  Popular  Club 
you  help  your  friends  form. 
It's  easy!  It's  fun!  Nothing 
to  sell,  nothing  to  buy.  Write 
today:  Popular  Club  Plan, 
Dept.  L934,  Lynbrook.N.  Y. 


j   Popular  Club  Plan,  Dept.X934,  Lynbrook,  N.Y.   j 
J  Send  Big  FREE  276-Page  FULL-COLOR  Catalog  j 


Name _ 


City.. 


...State.. 


T 
V 
R 

69 


A  Slightly  Reformed  Character 


(Continued  from  page  39) 
Spike  Jones:  "If  we  knocked  ourselves 
out  for  the  full  half-hour  every  week, 
with  only  the  same  sort  of  stuff  we  did 
on  the  road,  we'd  wear  out  our  welcome 
within  a  month.  We'd  find  ourselves  com- 
ing into  living  rooms  where  the  family 
had  gone  out  for  the  evening.  This  way, 
judiciously  mixing  some  of  the  corn  in 
with  straight  stuff,  and  with  Helen's 
torchy  numbers,  we  could  get  to  be  a 
habit." 

It's  an  old  saw  in  show  business  that 
comedians  are  the  most  serious  men  in 
the  trade.  And,  of  them  all,  there's  prob- 
ably no  one  more  deadly  in  earnest  about 
the  business  of  being  funny  than  Spike 
Jones.  Certainly  there's  no  one  who  works 
harder  at  it — no  one  could,  because  there 
aren't  enough  hours.  Spike  spent  three 
days  (and  nights  until  2  A.M.)  each  week 
planning  his  TV  shows  with  his  staff. 
Then,  three  more  days  for  rehearsals, 
and,  finally,  one  day  for  dress  rehearsal 
and  the  "live"  show.  That  adds  up  to 
seven — which  is  about  par  for  Spike. 

It's  a  shame,  too,  that  Spike  can't  have 
more  time  to  enjoy  his  lovely  Beverly 
Hills  home.  Located  a  couple  of  blocks 
south  of  Sunset  Boulevard,  in  one  of  the 
older,  very  proper  sections  of  Beverly 
Hills,  the  big  Colonial  mansion  sets  far 
back  from  the  street,  with  colorful  flower- 
beds lining  the  red  brick  walk. 

As  one  friend  puts  it,  it's  an  "awfully 
square"  house  for  Spike  Jones,  with  its 
stately  columns  across  the  front  of  the 
house.  But  the  tongue-in-cheek  attitude 
Spike  shows  towards  many  things  greets 
the  visitor,  even  before  he  has  a  chance 
to  lift  his  hand  to  the  brass  knocker.  The 
huge    doormat    is    lettered:     "Stokowski." 

Inside  the  house,  there  appear  to  be  ex- 
cellent copies  of  world-famous  master- 
pieces. It's  only  the  more  careful  second 
glance  which  reveals  that  the  "Blue  Boy" 
on  one  wall  actually  has  Spike's  face,  and 
wears  tennis  sneakers.  Opposite  him,  the 
"Whistler's  Mother"  sitting  so  sedately 
in  her  straight  chair  has  a  copy  of  the 
Daily  Racing  Form  folded  neatly  across 
her  lap.  And,  across  the  room,  the  enig- 
matic smile  of  the  "Mona  Lisa"  appears 
below  two  eyes  as  crossed  as  two  eyes 
could  be. 

Ihe  two  Jones  offspring — Spike,  Jr., 
who's  just  turned  8,  and  Leslie  Ann,  5— 
are  two  of  the  healthiest,  huskiest,  most 
normal  little  characters  you  could  im- 
agine. Mary  Foster,  who  has  had  them  in 
her  charge  for  the  last  two  years  obviously 
adores  them,  but  claims  they  can  be  as 
"hammy"  as  the  next  when  they  feel  like 
it. 

Little  Leslie  Ann,  with  the  promise  of 
future  beauty  already  on  her  little  pug- 
nosed  face,  is  currently  as  much  a  tom- 
boy as  rough-and-ready  Spike  Junior. 
She  could  hardly  escape  being  that, 
Helen  points  out,  since  the  neighborhood 
is  overrun  with  small  boys,  and  no  girls. 
In  order  to  have  someone  to  play  with, 
she  plays  with  boys.  "This  will  be  fine," 
Mary  points  out,  prophetically,  "if  these 
boys  just  stay  put  until  high  school. 
Leslie  will  have  all  the  dates  she  can 
handle,  right  in  the  block!" 

Spike    Junior's    household    chores    cur- 
rently include  cleaning  the  bird  cage  for 
the  family  parakeet,  a  gorgeous  character 
solemnly    called    Saul.     The    Jones    me- 
nagerie, generally  a  fluctuating  community, 
T    is  now  at  one  of  its  low  points,  census- 
V    wise.    Besides    Saul,    there's    Irving,    the 
r    silver-colored  poodle.  And  there  are  the 
tropical  fish:  In  a  ten-foot-long  aquarium, 
set  at  eye-level  into  the  wall  of  the  fam- 


ily room,  swim  some  of  the  biggest  angel- 
fish  in  private  captivity.  Spike  claims 
these  are  a  sort  of  "food  bank,"  and  would 
pass  as  filet  of  sole  if  times  ever  get  lean. 

Among  his  "extracurricular"  activities, 
Spike  Junior  has  picked  up  judo.  There 
was  probably  never  a  more  surprised 
father  than  Spike  Senior  one  evening  not 
long  ago.  "Daddy,"  Spike  Junior  requested, 
with  wide-eyed  innocence,  "there's  some- 
thing I  want  to  try  on  you."  Always  ready 
to  oblige  his  son,  Spike  Senior  took  the 
stance  his  son  dictated.  The  next  thing 
he  knew,  he  was  flat  on  his  back. 

Actually,  it's  only  poetic  justice  that 
the  Jones  young  have  a  mischievous 
streak.  Pop  has  been  playing  jokes  on  the 
public  for  so  many  years,  it  somehow 
seems  highly  suitable  that  he  now  has 
someone  to  return  the  compliment. 

The  Spike  Jones  brand  of  musical  tom- 
foolery probably  got  its  real  start  years 
ago,  when  Spike  was  only  a  youngster 
in  Long  Branch,  California.  Of  course, 
Spike  claims  some  of  the  "corn"  may  have 
been  brought  West  by  his  father,  the 
late  Lindley  M.  Jones,  a  native  of  Earl- 
ham,  Iowa.  The  elder  Jones  was  a  railroad 
telegrapher  for  fifty -five  years,  and 
brought  his  family  to  Long  Beach  when 
Spike  was  a  boy. 

Whether  that  "corn"  was  inherited  is, 
of  course,  debatable.  But  when  Spike  was 
only  knee-high  to  a  tuba,  he  developed  a 
burning  passion  to  own  and  play  a  trom- 
bone. His  indulgent  parents  helped  pad 
out  his  savings,  and  he  acquired  the 
coveted  instrument.  Then  he  discovered, 
much  to  his  distress,  that  his  arms  were 
too  short  to  play  the  trombone  properly. 
With  a  mighty  effort,  he  could  manage  to 
fling  the  slide  out  to  the  eighth  position — 
but,  by  no  amount  of  stretching,  could 
he  reach  to  pull  it  back  in. 

Even  then,  Spike  was  a  creature  of 
perseverance.  He  rigged  up  a  Rube  Gold- 
berg-type arrangement,  whereby  he  tied 
one  end  of  a  string  to  his  little  finger, 
the  other  end  to  the  slide  arm  of  the 
trombone.  Out  would  go  the  slide,  then 
he'd  reel  it  in  again,  using  the  string. 
This  proved  not  only  a  highly  efficient 
means  of  playing  the  trombone,  it  also 
reaped  unexpected  results:  His  audi- 
ence laughed  like  crazy  every  time  he 
went  into  action. 

It  was  only  after  considerable  convinc- 
ing on  his  part  that  his  parents  finally 
gave  him  their  blessing  to  join  a  dance 
band,  led  by  Dwight  Defty.  A  few  months 
later,  he  organized  his  own  dance  group — 
called  it  "Spike  Jones  and  his  Five  Tacks." 
They  played  over  a  Long  Beach  radio 
station,  KFOX,  until  Spike  was  graduated 
from  high  school.  At  Chaffee  Junior  Col- 
lege in  Ontario,  California,  Spike  joined 
the  Ray  West  Orchestra,  and  from  there 
went  on  to  jobs  in  other  bands. 

It  was  while  he  was  playing  drums  with 
John  Scott  Trotter,  on  the  old  Bing  Cros- 
by radio  show,  that  the  "musical  de- 
preciation" idea  really  hit  him.  It  was 
Spike's  job,  each  time  they  came  on  the 
air,  to  hit  the  chimes  which  announced 
Bing's  opening  number.  Someone  re- 
marked one  night  that  they  sure  hoped 
he'd  never  hit  a  sour  note.  The  possi- 
bility of  error  had  never  occurred  to  him 
before,  but  the  suggestion  suddenly  made 
him  very  conscious  of  those  opening 
chimes.  And,  sure  enough,  the  very  next 
show,  he  hit  the  wrong  bar.  The  re- 
sponse was  not  what  everyone  feared, 
however.  The  orchestra  practically  fell 
apart  at  the  seams,  laughing. 

The  bit  started  Spike  to  thinking.  If 
striking  a  wrong  note,  quite  by  accident, 
was    such    a    big,    comic    thing — why    not 


just  work  up  some  planned  sour  notes? 

With  a  group  of  fellow  musicians,  who 
had  been  kidding  around  with  music  in 
their  off  hours  for  some  time,  he  worked 
up  some  novelty  tunes,  and  they  cut  a 
couple  of  records.  One  of  these  came  to 
the  attention  of  some  recording  officials, 
and  the  group  was  signed  to  a  contract. 

One  of  the  first  discs  the  group  cut,  un- 
der contract,  was  a  musical  commentary 
on  Adolf  Hitler— this  was  in  1942.  The 
first  time  they  recorded  it,  Spike  ended 
the  number  with  an  ad-libbed,  resound- 
ing, and  very  juicy  Bronx  cheer. 

The  record,  titled  "Der  Fuehrer's 
Face,"  was  released  on  a  Saturday.  By 
Monday,  Spike  was  signed  to  play  in  a 
Warner  Bros,  motion  picture,  "Thank 
Your  Lucky  Stars."  On  Tuesday,  he 
signed  a  radio  contract.  On  Wednesday, 
he  appeared  on  a  Bob  Burns  radio  show. 
And,  on  Friday,  he  signed  a  new  record- 
ing contract.  By  the  following  Sunday, 
Spike  recalls,  they  had  to  chain  him  to 
keep  his  feet  on  the  ground.  And  things 
haven't  slowed  down  much  since. 

In  his  thirty-six-months  zoom  into  the 
stratosphere,  between  1942  and  1946, 
Spike  Jones  became  one  of  the  "hottest" 
things  in  show  business.  His  records  were 
selling  like  hot  cakes  are  supposed  to  sell, 
he  had  a  radio  show,  did  more  movies 
than  he  cares  to  be  reminded  of. 

Then,  in  1946,  he  decided  to  get  the  show 
on  the  road.  He  organized  his  "Musical 
Depreciation  Revue,"  and  toured  with 
this  madness  until  May,  1953.  In  Spike's 
company  were  forty  people,  including 
thirteen  musicians — a  term  many  claimed 
to  be  pretty  loose  talk.  But,  as  Spike 
pointed  out,  and  still  stoutly  maintains, 
it  takes  an  unusually  good  musician  to 
play    as    badly    as    his    men    do,    on    cue. 

"Mad"  and  "zany"  are  actually  pretty 
pale  words  to  use  to  describe  the  pres- 
entations that  were  put  on  by  Spike 
Jones  and  his  City  Slickers.  Besides  the 
standard  fiddles,  trumpets,  saxophones 
and  trombones,  the  City  Slickers  were 
adept  at  playing  tuned  flit- guns,  bicycle 
pumps  that  whistled,  telephone  bells 
which  rang  in  key,  and  bagpipes  which 
exploded  on  cue.  At  one  point,  the  bass 
viol  was  flung  open  to  disclose  a  min- 
iature kitchenette.  The  cello  would  belch 
firecrackers,  and  the  tuba  blew  tiiba- 
size  bubbles.  As  a  clincher,  the  harp 
popped  corn,  dispensed  soft  drinks,  and 
shot  arrows  into  the  air  at  appropriate 
moments. 

Yet  the  band  still  managed  to  work 
in  a  tune,  here  and  there.  They  spoofed 
the  classics,  from  Brahms  straight  through 
to  Tchaikovsky.  They  shot  holes  in  the 
sentimental  ballads  {one  of  the  master- 
pieces they  turned  out  during  this  era 
was  "Cocktails  for  Two,"  which  record  is 
still  a  popular  seller  in  the  music  shops). 

Maybe  the  psychologists  would  have 
another  diagnosis  of  this  national  pheno- 
menon. But,  to  the  untutored  mind,  it 
looked  a  lot  like  Lindley  Jones,  in  kick- 
ing the  sacred  cows  of  music  in  the  slats, 
was  performing  a  vicarious  service  for 
all  frustrated  citizens.  For  years,  these 
much-put-upon  citizens  had  yearned  to 
take  a  swat  at  the  conventions  stifling 
them — but  lacked  the  courage.  Along  came 
Spike,  without  an  inhibited  bone  in  his 
body,  and  did  it  for  them. 

In  1948,  when  Spike  and  his  City 
Slickers  were  really  riding  high,  he  met 
Helen.  Their  first  meeting  was  at  the  ! 
Hollywood  Palladium,  where  she  was 
singing.  They  met  again  at  the  old  Troca- 
dero,  where  they  were  both  on  the  same 
bill.   Later,   she   came   to   work   with   the 


band,  and  in  July,  1948,  the  newspapers 
gaily  announced  that  "Spike  Jones  Marries 
the  Hired   Help." 

If  the  wedding  was  quiet,  it  was  prob- 
ably a  pretty  good  thing.  Because  there 
hasn't  been  a  lot  of  quiet,  since  then.  Life 
in  the  Jones  household  is  rarely  tran- 
quil, never  dull.  For  a  while,  it  just 
practically  didn't  exist — at  least,  the  home 
life  didn't.  Helen  went  off  on  a  tour 
of  her  own,  a  couple  of  years  ago.  Spike, 
making  some  personal  appearances  at  this 
same  time,  claims  that  all  they  got  to  see 
of  each  other  during  this  period  was  when 
they'd  wave  as  their  trains  passed  each 
other,  going  in  opposite  directions. 

If  the  pace  hasn't  slackened,  at  least 
they're  going  in  the  same  direction  nowa- 
days. On  TV,  Helen  decorates  at  least 
two  spots  on  Spike's  show  each  week, 
and  they  are  together  for  rehearsals,  as 
well  as  for  the  rare  times  when  they  man- 
age to  be  home  simultaneously. 

Among  those  rare  times,  the  most  pleas- 
ant are  when  Helen's  family  shows  up  for 
some  celebration  or  other.  Spike,  an  only 
child,  acquired  quite  a  family  when  he 
married  Helen.  She  has,  besides  her 
parents,  five  brothers  and  five  sisters,  all 
of  whom  live  only  a  matter  of  minutes 
from  the  Jones  house. 

When  the  whole  Grayco  family  gathers, 
as  it  does  for  Grandpa  or  Grandma  Gray- 
co's  birthdays,  or  other  national  holidays, 
they  can  count  fifty-five  heads.  That  is, 
if  those  heads  stay  up  above  water  in 
the  Jones  swimming  pool  long  enough  to 
be  counted. 

Spike  is  always  in  the  middle  of  the 
mob,  stirring  up  the  fun.  He  has  the 
stern-jawed,  deadpan  face  which  would 
do  credit  to  an  ancient  owl,  but  the  mind 
could  be  Puck's,  or  a  comic-opera  ver- 
sion of  Mephistopheles.  He's  always  tip- 
ping the  youngsters  off  on  some  new 
deviltry,  or  slyly  egging  the  brothers-in- 
law  into  some  practical  joke  on  one  of  the 
girls.  To  the  thirty-one  Grayco  grand- 
children, Spike  is  another  Pied  Piper. 

No  one  will  ever  deny  that  Spike  Jones 
loves  youngsters,  especially  his  own  two. 
But  he  does  refuse  to  let  them  dictate 
what  he  is  to  do,  and  when  he  is  to  do  it. 
It  just  happens  that  Spike  believes  parents 
have  a  few  rights  to  assert,  too. 

Assert  himself  he  did,  recently.  Bogged 
down  by  an  inescapable  load  of  re- 
hearsals and  planning  sessions,  he  ran 
headlong  into  Spike  Junior's  birthday. 
Leaving  himself  wide  open,  he  admits, 
he  asked  the  boy  what  he'd  like  to  do 
for  his  birthday.  Without  a  moment's 
hesitation,  the  lad  replied  that  he  wanted 
to  take  some  chums  to  Disneyland. 

"I  simply  couldn't  get  away  for  the 
entire  day  it  would  require  to  make  that 
kind  of  a  trip.  But  I  couldn't  give  the 
boy  that  kind  of  an  excuse — at  eight, 
things  like  rehearsals  and  work  schedules 
just  don't  mean  much.  So  I  just  explained 
how  Disneyland  is  in  Philadelphia,  and 
the  trip  would  take  too  long.  He  agreed 
he'd  just  as  soon  go  to  the  'Ice  Follies,' 
which  was  playing  just  a  couple  of  miles 
down  the  pike.  But,"  Spike  sighs,  "he's 
still  a  little  bothered  about  how  a  couple 
of  his  friends  managed  to  make  it  to 
Philadelphia  and  back  in  the  same  day." 

There  will,  of  course,  come  a  day  of 
reckoning.  One  fine  day  Spike  Junior's 
geography  will  improve,  and  Spike  Sen- 
ior will  be  brought  to  account  for  such 
parental  connivance.  It  would  be  fun  to 
be  around,  and  find  out  what  trick  Spike 
Junior  plays  on  his  dad  to  even  up  the 
score.  It's  bound  to  be  a  good  one,  and  it 
will  serve  him  right.  Anyone  who's  per- 
petrated as  many  tricks  on  as  many  peo- 
ple as  has  Spike  Jones,  deserves  at  least 
a  little  comeuppance — even  if  it's  from 
his   own   son! 


NATIONAL  BELLAS  HESS 

FALL  &  WINTER  CATALOG 
Bargains  Galore  for  You  and  Your  Family 

See  hundreds  of  smart  faU  fashions  in  glowing  colors. 
Designed  in  New  York  and  Hollywood,  style  cap- 
itals of  the  world.  Select  from  an  exciting  array  of 
dresses,  coats,  shoes  and  accessories  .  .  .  fine  home 
items  .  .  .  all  first  quality  and  offered  to  you  at  the 
lowest  prices  anywhere! 

Shop  by  mail,  and  join  the  millions  who  save  by 
buying  regularly  from  the  bright  colorful  National 
Bellas  Hess  Catalogs.  Your  choice  of  three  conven- 
ient ways  to  buy:  cash,  co.d.  or  credit.  Everything 
in  our  catalog  is  absolutely  guaranteed — your  money 
back  if  you  are  not  delighted.  Our  69th  year. 

NATIONAL  BELLAS  HESS 


SAVE  MONEY,  SAVE  TIME-ACT  NOW! 


NATIONAL  BELLAS  HESS 

247-99  Bellas  Hess  Bldg.,  Kansas  Ciry,  Mo. 

Please  send  me,  free,  the  new  National  Bellas 
Hess  Money-Saving  Catalog. 


Name. 


Address. 

City 

State 


BE  YOUR  OWN 
MUSIC  TEACHER 


W 


Send  for  Free  Book  Telling  How  Easily 
You  Can  Learn  Piano,  Guitar,  Accordion, 
ANY  Instrument  This  EASY  A-B-C  Way 
TOW  IT'S  EASY  to  learn  music 
at  home.  No  tiresome  "exer- 
cises." No  teacher,  just  START 
RIGHT  OUT  playing  simple  pieces.  Thou- 
sands now  play  who  never  thought  they 
could.  Our  pictured  lessons  make  it  easy  as 
A-B-C  to  learn  to  play  popular  music,  hymns, 
classical  and  any  other  music.  On  easy  pay 
plan,  only  a  few  cents  a  lesson.  Over  900,000 
students  including  famous  TV  Star  Lawrence 
Welk.    (Our  59th  successful  year.) 

Stop  Cheating  Yourself  of  These  Joys! 
Popularity!  New  friends.  Gay  parties.  Good  times.  Career. 
Extra  Money.  Understand,  appreciate,  and  converse  about 
music.  Learn  lives  and  composition  of  modern  and  great 
masters  .  .  .  Relax!  Banish  worries  and  frustrations. 
Satisfy  self-expression,  creative  urge.  Gain  self-confidence. 
MAIL  COUPON  FOR  FREE  BOOK.  Find  out  why  our 
method  can  teach  you  quickly,  easily,  inexpensively.  Write 
for  36-page  illustrated  Free  Book.  No  obligation.  Men- 
tion   your    favorite    instrument.    Just   mail    coupon    today! 

No  salesman   will  call  upon 

you. 

U.    S.    SCHOOL 
OF    MUSIC 

Studio  A209 
Port  Washington,   N.  Y. 


U.    S.    SCHOOL    OF    MUSIC 

Studio   A209,    Port   Washington,    N.   Y. 

Please  send  me  your  36-page  illustrated  Free  Book.     I 
I   would   like   to   play   (Name    Instrument). 


(Please   Print) 
■    Address --- 


How  I  Learned 

SHORTHAND 

in  O  Weeks 


SHORTHAND 

No  Symbols — No  Machines 
Uses  ABC's 

By   Miss   Dulcie   Kaufman 

"Six  weeks  after  enrolling  for 
SPEEDWBITIKG  shorthand,  I 
could  take  dictation  at  the  rate  of 
120  words  per  minute  and  tran- 
scribe it  accurately.  Through  the 
School  of  SPEEDWRITING'S 
Placement  Service,  I  was  hired  for 
a  secretarial  position  at  a  salary 
that  exceeded  any  I  had  earned 
previously." 

No    "Foreign    Language"   of    Symbols — with 


The  ABC  Shorthand 


Over  350,000  men  and  women  have  learned  shorthand  the 
SPEEDYVRITING  way  at  home  or  through  classroom  in- 
struction in  schools  in  over  400  cities  in  U.S..  Canada. 
Cuba  and  Hawaii.  Today  they  are  winning  success  every- 
where^— in  business,  industry  and  Civil  Service.  SPEED- 
WRITING  shorthand  is  easy  to  master — yet  it  is  accurate 
and  speedy.  120  words  per  minute.  Age  is  no  obstacle. 
Typing   also   available. 

^  n  ■■  ■■  Write  TODAY  for  FREE  book  which  gives 
L  II  L  L  full  details— and  FREE  sample  lesson  that 
r  n  ■  ■  will  show  you  how  easilv  and  quickly  YOU 
■  ILL  can  learn  SPEEDWRITING  shorthand.  Mail 
"     "  "  ™  ™  the  coupon  NOW. 


|    ©School  of  Speed  writing 


f"  Guaranteed  by  <A 
Good  Housekeeping 

34th  Year 

D   Classroom    Instruction 


Please    send    me   details 

and    FREE   sample    lesson 

D  Home  Study 

□    If  under   17,   check  here  for  Special  Booklet  A 

Name 

Address 

City 


71 


Come  to  the  Aid  of  Your  Party 


(Continued    from    page    49) 
drive  for  children's  aid,  a  bazaar.  Even  a 
small  party  might  profit  from  it." 

Two  children  can  be  on  the  Refreshment 
Committee,  to  decide  on  the  food  and  how 
it  is  to  be  served.  Two  can  get  the  inex- 
pensive favors  and  prizes  at  any  local 
variety  store  or  similar  treasure  trove,  as 
part  of  the  Game  Committee — they  can 
decide  what  games  shall  be  played,  too. 
A  Picture  Committee  can  include  the  chil- 
dren with  cameras  who  would  like  to  take 
snapshots.  A  Clean-up  Committee  can  be 
made  up  of  an  older  girl  and  boy  who  can 
stay  a  while  after  the  party  is  over — and 
will  think  it's  fun,  as  Mrs.  Mace's  children 
do.  (Sometimes  they  get  the  extra  cookies 
or  cakes  left  over!)  The  important  thing 
is  for  the  child  to  participate  in  as  many 
ways  as  possible.  Here  are  some  of  Mrs. 
Mace's  ideas: 

Decorations:  Children  love  bright  colors, 
fresh  bouquets  of  flowers  on  the  table, 
bright  paper  garlands,  amusing  or  fanciful 
cutouts,  inexpensive  favors  made  by  them- 
selves or  bought  at  the  variety  store, 
pretty  lace-paper  doilies  and  fancy  paper 
napkins.  The  adult  who  lets  her  child  as- 
sist in  all  this  is  making  that  party  mem- 
orable for  days  in  advance  and  perhaps 
for  years  afterward.  It  can  be  a  lesson  in 
choosing  harmonious  colors  and  in  creat- 
ing something  pretty  from  quite  ordinary 
materials. 

Invitations:  Whether  given  informally, 
by  telephone,  in  person,  or  by  mail,  in- 
vitations should  be  explicit  as  to  the  hour 
when  the  party  will  begin  and  will  end, 
so  provision  can  be  made  by  families  to 
get  the  children  to  the  party  on  time  and 
get  them  home  on  time.  There  should  be 
no  doubt  about  transportation  arrange- 
ments, especially  for  very  young  children 
or  for  older  ones  who  will  leave  a  party 
after  dark.  The  young  host's  or  hostess's 
mother  has  the  job  of  finding  out  who's 
bringing  and  picking  up  whom,  as  this 
is  an  adult  responsibility. 

Chaperones:  The  question  of  whether 
parents — or  older  brothers  or  sisters — 
should  accompany  the  children  at  the 
party  is  one  to  be  decided  between  hostess 
and  families  of  the  guests.  At  The  Mace 
School,  mothers  are  discouraged  from 
hovering  too  closely,  except  for  those 
needed  to  keep  things  moving  happily  and 
perhaps  to  assist  at  refreshment  time. 
"Just  remember,  it's  a  party  for  the  chil- 
dren," says  Mrs.  Mace,  "and  they  don't 
like  to  be  watched  every  moment  under 
those  circumstances,  as  long  as  there  is 
at  least  one  responsible  adult  close  by.  It 
spoils  a  child's  pleasure  to  be  told,  on  the 
way  home,  that  she  did  this  or  that  wrong. 
If  there  has  been  something  that  needs 
correction,  hold  off  a  while — perhaps  until 
the  next  invitation  comes." 

Sociability:     The     wallflower     problem 


may  begin  early,  if  a  little  girl  (or  even 
a  boy)  is  timid  and  shy.  Mrs.  Mace  tells 
her  children:  "We  think  too  often  that 
everything  should  come  our  way,  without 
our  making  enough  effort.  You  must  not 
expect  that  everyone  will  be  trying  to 
make  you  happy  every  minute.  You  have 
to  do  some  of  it  yourself.  Make  yourself 
happy.  Join  in  the  fun  with  the  others." 

Children  should  be  taught  how  to  draw 
other  children  into  the  circle  of  fun. 
"Every  child  must  be  drawn  into  something 
at  a  party,"  Mrs.  Mace  says.  "When  a 
mother  teaches  a  child  to  be  kind  to  other 
children,  she  is  not  only  teaching  party 
manners  but  the  best  possible  way  of  life. 
No  child  should  be  allowed  to  feel  left  out 
and  unimportant.  We  ask  our  children  who 
can  perform  to  get  up  without  coaxing  and 
entertain  the  others.  These  are  not  neces- 
sarily the  professional  children.  All  the 
children  have  talents  they  love  to  use.  We 
tell  those  who  may  not  feel  like  doing 
something  at  the  moment  that,  if  they  do 
a  good  job  under  those  circumstances,  it 
proves  they  are  really  adaptable.  That  it's 
even  better  to  make  a  success  of  some- 
thing when  you  didn't  feel  like  doing  it." 

Bonnie  Sawyer  has  worked  out  her  own 
idea  for  a  neighborhood  or  school  or  com- 
munity party.  Sometimes  not  all  the  chil- 
dren are  known  to  one  another,  so  she 
has  made   a  tag  for   each   child   to   wear, 

lettered:  "I'm .  Who  are  you?" 

This  is  a  good  idea  for  adult  parties,  too, 
where  introductions  are  spoken  quickly, 
and  names  forgotten,  or  where  the  crowd 
is  too  large  for  individual  introductions. 
The  children  love  it,  and  even  a  potential 
wallflower  is  bound  to  get  acquainted  and 
become  part  of  the  group. 

Games:  The  wise  adult  tells  a  child  to 
take  part  in  all  the  activities  at  a  party, 
even  if  he  doesn't  happen  to  like  all  the 
games  the  others  are  playing.  If  you  don't 
know  how  to  play  a  certain  game,  she 
advises,  ask  to  have  it  explained  to  you. 

Kissing  games  seem  to  go  with  parties 
and  it's  Frieda  Mace's  belief  that  you  can't 
stop  them,  that  the  kids  look  upon  them 
as  they  would  upon  other  party  games, 
and  that  it's  a  mistake  to  make  them  seem 
important  by  objecting.  A  grownup  should 
be  around,  unobtrusively,  ready  to  suggest 
other  activities. 

The  most  fun  for  children,  of  course,  are 
the  active  games,  if  the  weather  is  nice 
outdoors  or  there  is  room  enough  indoors. 
Small  objects  that  can  be  jarred  off  tables 
or  thrown  to  the  floor  should  be  put  away. 
Mother's  best  lamp  should  be  pushed  safe- 
ly out  of  reach. 

An  interesting  modern  version  of  the 
game  called  "Going  to  Jerusalem"  or 
"Musical  Chairs"  is  to  seat  the  children  in 
a  circle  or  oval  on  the  floor  and  pass  some 
small,  smooth  object  from  one  to  the  other. 
Even  an  orange  or  a  well-washed  potato 


'pwieca&t  £<n  ^M 


T 
V 
Ft 

72 


Gales  of  laughter  .  .  .  showers  of  song  ...  a  rising  barometer  promises  plenty  of 
cool,  cool  looking  and  listening  for  the  coming  season  .  .  .  though  some  all-time 
favorites  face  stormy  weather  ahead!  For  an  exciting  glimpse  of  what  1957-58 
holds  for  TV-radio  audiences  .  .  .  from  new  developments  in  the  industry  to  fresh 
young  talents  on  the  air  .  .  .  be  sure  to  see  the  colorful  pictures  and  stories 
in  the  October  issue  of 

TV  RADIO  MIRROR 

at  your  newsstand  September  5 


will  do — no  fruit  that  will  crack  open, 
nothing  that  has  sharp  edges  or  can  jab. 
Whoever  is  caught  with  the  object  in  his 
hands,  as  the  music  stops,  meets  the  same 
fate  as  if  he  had  been  left  without  a  chair 
to  sit  on  in  the  older  version  of  this  game. 
The  absence  of  the  chairs  and  the  march- 
ing around  fits  better  into  smaller  rooms. 

Word  games  are  always  fun,  if  they  are 
not  played  so  long  that  the  children  get 
weary.  Older  youngsters,  the  ones  in  sixth, 
seventh  and  eighth  grades,  love  them. 
But  variety  is  the  spice  of  any  party,  so 
no  game  should  be  played  until  the  chil- 
dren get  restless. 

Dancing:  This  is  tops,  especially  for  the 
older  children.  The  Bunny  Hop,  the  Lindy 
— square  dancing,  if  you  have  a  big  enough 
room,  or  a  game  room  or  playroom  in  the 
basement.  It's  wisest  to  consult  the  kids 
here,  and  find  out  what  they  like  to  do. 
Some  of  the  children  at  Mace  have  a  sys- 
tem at  their  own  parties  for  hearing  all 
their  favorite  recordings.  Each  child  brings 
one  or  two,  marked  with  his  name  on  a 
tiny  piece  of  adhesive  tape  attached  to  the 
middle  of  the  record.  This  way,  records 
can  easily  be  identified  and  collected  at 
going-rhome  time. 

Refreshments:  Little  children  still  like 
sandwiches — peanut  butter,  and  jelly — the 
traditional  party  ice  cream  and  cake. 
Older  children  go  for  Cokes  and  Peosis 
and  root  beer,  potato  chips  and  pretzels, 
apples  and  doughnuts  (for  square  danc- 
ing)— and,  of  course,  hamburgers  and 
frankfurters.  Cookies  that  satisfy,  some- 
times individual  little  cakes,  each  with  one 
candle  on  it,  instead  of  a  traditional  birth- 
day cake.  A  cute  idea  for  summer  drinks, 
or  cold  drinks  at  any  time,  is  to  dip  the 
rim  of  the  glass  in  orange  juice  and  then 
into  granulated  sugar,  with  enough  cling- 
ing to  form  an  edge.  Put  in  the  refrig- 
erator until  ready  to  fill  with  whatever 
drink  you  are  serving.  The  child  sips  the 
drink  by  way  of  a  sparkling  frosted-orange 
rim  and  is  delighted  with  the  new  taste. 

Sit-down  or  buffet  serving  depends  upon 
the  hostess's  facilities  and  room.  Also  upon 
the  value  she  places  upon  her  rugs  and 
furnishings!  A  game  room  with  a  floor 
designed  for  easy  cleaning  admits  of  pass- 
ing paper  plates  and  cups  and  balancing 
them  in  small  hands.  A  back  yard  takes  a 
lot  of  punishment.  Or  even  a  porch.  Many 
families  find  the  dining  room  table  the 
safest  place  for  serving,  or  they  set  up 
card  tables. 

Mrs.  Mace  reminds  her  children  it  is  not 
necessary  to  race  for  the  food,  and  it  is 
necessary  to  wait  until  all  are  served  at  a 
table.  They  are  told  to  keep  a  plate  passed 
to  them  unless  they  are  asked  to  pass  it 
along,  to  watch  the  hostess  if  they  are  not 
sure  when  to  start  and  what  silver  to  use, 
but  also  to  remember  that  it's  a  party  and 
not  to  worry  too  much  about  some  unim- 
portant error. 

A  child  should  be  reminded,  if  neces- 
sary, not  to  comment  on  something  he 
doesn't  like,  to  keep  it  on  his  plate  and 
eat  a  little  of  it  if  he  can.  Never,  never, 
Mrs.  Mace  tells  the  children,  ask  to  have 
something  removed  from  your  plate,  or 
make  a  fuss  about  it.  Eat  a  second  portion 
of  something  else,  if  it's  passed  to  you. 
Don't  say  anything  rude.  Don't  talk  to  just 
one  child.  If  you  have  a  joke  to  tell,  that's 
fine,  but  be  sure  it's  a  nice  joke  that  every- 
one will  enjoy,  and  be  sure  it  won't  hurt 
anyone's  feelings. 

Bringing  a  present:  Hand  it  to  the  per- 
son for  whom  it  is  intended,  and  put  in  a 
card  so  it  will  be  remembered  as  yours, 
no  matter  how  many  it  may  get  mixed  up  ! 
with,  in  the  excitement  of  arriving.  If 
parties  in  your  community  are  frequent 
enough  to  be  financially  burdensome,  you 


might  suggest  that,  for  your  own  children's 
party,  you  are  limiting  presents  to  a  cer- 
tain price  level,  the  kind  that  can  be  pur- 
chased at  the  ever-useful  neighborhood 
variety  or  toy  store.  Kids  love  gifts,  espe- 
cially when  they  get  a  lot  at  one  time,  and 
don't  care  a  bit  what  they  cost.  The  fun  is 
in  the  opening,  so  help  your  child  to  wrap 
the  presents  prettily — and  let  him  use  his 
own  ideas  if  he  wants  to. 

Family  Parties:  Those  special  occasions 
at  Christmas  or  birthday  time  are  more 
fun  when  a  child  or  a  group  of  children 
distribute  the  gifts,  make  their  own  little 
presentation  speeches,  plan  the  way  in 
which  everything  is  to  be  done.  At  The 
Mace  School,  the  children  learn  poise  and 
assurance  by  acting  as  masters  and  mis- 
tresses of  ceremonies  at  the  monthly  as- 
semblies, introducing  the  children  who  are 
to  perform  or  contribute  in  any  way. 
Adapting  this  plan  to  any  close-knit  group, 
such  as  a  family  or  church  or  school,  even 
timid  children  can  get  up  and  do  a  good 
job — good  for  them  and  fun  for  the  others. 

Party  Dress  Up:  Simple  little  dresses 
for  the  girls,  white  or  pastels,  or  a  tailored 
dress  prettied  up  with  beads  or  a  flower 
or  a  fancy  collar  or  belt.  Never,  even  at 
the  Mace  Graduation  Prom,  an  off-the- 
shoulder  dress  for  a  pre-high-school  child. 
A  little  sleeve,  usually,  at  the  Prom.  Stock- 
ings can  be  worn  instead  of  socks,  a  little 
heel,  not  more  than  an  inch  or  so.  Sports 
jackets  and  slacks  for  the  boys,  or  a  suit. 
Tie  and  white  shirt  for  an  important  party, 
otherwise  a  sports  shirt. 

A  little  girl's  hair  can  be  put  up  in  a 
pony  tail  or  caught  back  with  a  barette  or 
band.  Girls  like  to  wear  their  hair  a  little 
differently  at  a  party,  just  as  their  mothers 
do.  Nails  buffed,  without  gaudy  polish, 
soap-and-water  skin,  maybe  a  touch  of 
natural-looking  lipstick  for  the  older  girls, 
because  it  makes  them  feel  very  partified 
and  elegant.  The  same  goes  for  a  light 
cologne  or  toilet  water.  Deodorants  for 
both  girls  and  boys.  The  boys  are  told 
that,  if  they  want  to  get  girls  interested  in 
them — and  certainly  if  they  want  dancing 
partners — their  hair  must  be  clean,  also 
their  hands  and  nails;  their  shoes  shined, 
their  faces  scrubbed.  They  seem  to  get  the 
idea. 

Time  to  Leave:  A  child  should  be  taught 
to  gather  up  all  his  belongings  when  he 
leaves — little  girls'  handbags,  boys'  caps, 
overshoes  or  rubbers,  umbrellas,  rain- 
coats. Toys  or  records  that  have  been 
brought  along,  favors  given  to  be  taken 
home.  If  a  child  has  been  told  to  leave  a 
party  at  a  certain  time,  and  refreshments 
have  not  yet  been  served,  he  can  ask  to 
use  the  telephone  and  explain  to  his  moth- 
er. If  he  must  leave  anyhow — and  this  is 
the  hardest  part  of  all — the  hostess  should 
try  to  wrap  up  at  least  a  few  of  the  goodies. 
If  he  makes  a  fuss  about  leaving,  he  should 
be  reminded  that  when  he  leaves  willingly 
he  earns  the  privilege  of  going  to  other 
parties.  A  good  hostess  guards  against 
serving  too  late  for  every  child  to  be  pres- 
ent, however. 

Mrs.  Mace  impresses  on  the  children  to 
respect  the  home  they  go  into,  as  they  do 
their  own,  as  they  do  their  school.  "Don't 
let  your  parents  and  your  training  down," 
she  says  to  them.  As  a  teacher,  as  a  woman 
who  has  had  four  children  of  her  own 
and  whose  grown-up  daughter  Alyce  is 
now  a  talented  actress-singer,  Mrs.  Mace 
has  been  close  to  many  children  all 
through  her  life.  "No  teacher  has  any 
trouble  with  educating  children  in  the 
Three  R's,  when  the  parents  will  cooper- 
ate," she  smiles.  "Understanding  parents 
hold  the  key  to  a  child's  happiness,  to  his 
standing  at  school,  to  his  fun  at  parties. 
The  rule  is  to  keep  children  busy  and  oc- 
cupied— happily  busy.  And  to  let  them 
participate  in  their  own  parties  as  much 
as  possible." 


;-i 


!"*  *"«*•««  Book  ol         S]°0 

?™}-0  CARE 


224  pages 

fully  indexed 

written  by  three  doctors 

ANSWERS  THE  QUESTIONS 
MOTHERS  ASK 

ALLERGIES:  "My  little  girl  Is  allergic  to  milk. 
Should  I   make  her  drink  it  anyway?" 

BED-WETTING:  "My  five-year-old  Tommy 
wets  his  bed  every  night.  Is  there  something 
I  can  do  to  help  him  stop  this?" 

CRYING:  "Should  I  let  my  baby  cry  or  should 
I   pick  him  up?" 


FEEDING:  "Now  that  Janey  is  two  months 
old,  when  can  I  sta^rt  giving  her  solid  foods?" 

INOCULATIONS:  "What  diseases  do  I  have 
my  baby  inoculated  against,  and  when  should 
these   be   given?" 

SEX  EDUCATION:  "How  can  I  answer  my 
little  boy's  questions  about  sex?  He  seems  too 
young  to  be  told." 

TONSILS:  "My  husband  insists  that  Bobby's 
tonsils  be  taken  out.  He  says  all  children 
need  that  operation.    Do  they?" 

A   Handy,    Easy-to-Read   Guide    Book   for 
Mothers  and  Mothers-to-Be 

Here,  at  your  fingertips,  is  the  latest  informa- 
tion on  infant  and  child  care.  Authoritatively 
written,  and  alphabetically  arranged  for  easy 
reference,  THE  MODERN  BOOK  OF  INFANT 
AND  CHILD  CARE  makes  a  valuable  gift  for 
mothers-to-be — an  indispensable  guide  for 
every  modern  mother. 

I " 

Bartholomew  House.  Inc.,  Dept.WG  957 
205  E.  42nd  St.,  New  York  17.  N.  Y. 

Send    me   a   copy   of  "INFANT   AND    CHILD 
CARE."  I  enclose  $1.00. 

NAME 


(Please  Print) 


STREET. 


CITY STATE. 


FREE  MATERNITY 


ILLUSTRATED  STYLE  CATALOG- Economy 
Priced  Maternity  Fashions.  Dresses,  Sep- 
arates, Sportswear,  Bras,  Girdles,  Lingerie. 
WRITE  TODAY-CRAWFORD'S 
i       1  Dept.  35,  8015  Wornall,  Kansas  City  14,Mo. 


[TTW Beautiful  Christmas  GIFT  WRAPS 


Get  YOURS!  A  gay  collection  of  18  handsome  sheets 
for  Gift  packages.  Will  be  sent  entirely  FREE!  Also 
get  details  on  Sunshine  Plan  to  earn  .  .  . 

BIG  Sums  of  EXTRA  MONEY 

You'll  have  fun. ...  and  you'll  delight 

your   friends    and    neighbors    when   you 

show   the   beautiful    SUNSHINE   SUPER- 

l/ALUE    PERSONALIZED    CHRISTMAS 

CARDS  .  .  .  full-color  cards  with  names 

imprinted,   costing  only   a   little   more 

than  3c  per  card  and  envelope !  Many 

other  exclusive  Sunshine  Christmas  Card 

I  Assortments— at  astonishing   low  prices 

Ithat  mean  quick  sales,  BIG  EARNINGS 

for   you !    Write   TODAY   for  your  free 

"W""5^  Christmas  Gift  Wraps  and  the  Kit  with 

ouoroniejdby 'Aan  details  on  the  Sunshine  Plan. 

I  Good  Housekeeping  A 

SUNSHINE  ART  STUDIOS,  INC. 

28  Warwick  St.,  Springfield  1,  Mass.*  Pasadena  1,  Calif. 

Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 
New  Way  Without  Surgery 

Science  Finds  Healing  Substance  That 
Relieves  Pain— Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 

For  the  first  time  science  has  found  a 
new  healing  substance  with  the  astonishing 
ability  to  shrink  hemorrhoids  and  to  relieve 
pain  —  without  surgery. 

In  case  after  case,  while  gently  relieving 
pain,  actual  reduction  (shrinkage)  took 
place. 

Most  amazing  of  all  —  results  were  so 
thorough  that  sufferers  made  astonishing 
statements  like  "Piles  have  ceased  to  be  a 
problem!" 

The  secret  is  a  new  healing  substance 
(Bio-Dyne*)  — discovery  of  a  world-famous 
research  institute. 

This  substance  is  now  available  in  sup- 
pository or  ointment  form  under  the  name 
Preparation  H.*  Ask  for  it  at  all  drug  count- 
ers—money back  guarantee.    *Reg.  u.  s.  Pat.  Off. 


SONG  POEMS  WANTED 

To  be  set  to  music.   Send  your  poems   today  for  free 
examination! 

J.  CHAS.  McNEIL.   (A.  B.  Master  of  Music) 
510-MG  So.  Alexandria  Los  Angeles  5,  Calif. 


BRONCHIAL  ASTHMA 
ATTACKS  CALL  FOR 


DR.    R.    SCHIFFMANN'S 

ASTHMADOR 


Effective  relief  anytime,  any- 
where. Powder,  cigarette  or 
pipe  mix . . . 

Ask  your  druggist 

SHEETS,  TOASTERS, 
TOWELS,  MIXERS,etc. 
GIVEN  TO  YOU  FREE! 


Thousands  of  famous  prod- 
ucts to  choose  from  — furni- 
ture, fashions,  silverware, 
china,  draperies,  etc.  You 
get  $50.00  and  more  in 
merchandise  just  by  being 
Secretary  of  a  Popular  Club 
you  help  your  friends  form. 
It's  easy!  It's  fun!  Nothing 
to  sell,  nothing  to  buy.  Write 
today:  Popular  Club  Plan, 
Dept.L933,  Lynbrook.N.  Y. 


I  Popular  Club  Plan,  Dept.  L933.  Lynbrook,  N.  Y.   | 
j  Send  Big  FREE  276-Page  FULL-COLOR  Catalog  j 


■  name ■ 

■  Clty,.^..^...,...... .State I 


T 

V 
R 

73 


Meet  the  Quiz  Kings  Face  to  Face! 


(Continued  from  page  25) 
sidered  for  the  job,  including  some  top 
emcees  in  TV  and  radio,  important  com- 
mentators, well-known  stage,  screen  and 
TV  actors.  The  story  is  practically  the 
same  for  every  quizmaster.  He  had  to  be 
tops,  and  he  has  to  stay  tops  against  the 
keenest  kind  of  competition. 

Here  is  what  may  get  you  on  The 
$64,000  Question:  You — or  someone  who 
thinks  you're  smart  enough  to  compete — 
write  a  letter  to  the  show,  in  care  of 
CBS-TV,  485  Madison  Avenue,  New  York 
22,  N.  Y.  The  letter  will  be  one  of  a  possi- 
ble 10,000  or  more  received  that  week,  so 
it  obviously  should  be  as  informative  and 
impressive  as  you  can  make  it. 

If  you  sound  interesting  for  their  show, 
you  will  get  a  questionnaire  in  the  mail, 
asking  for  information  about  your  back- 
ground and  education,  special  fields  of  in- 
terest or  service,  hobbies,  availability  for 
the  program  if  and  when  called — plus  the 
photo  request.  You  will  be  asked  to  give 
three  or  more  character  references.  This 
has  nothing  to  do  with  financial  or  social 
status — you  can  be  the  humblest,  plainest 
person.  It  does  have  to  do  with  being  the 
kind  of  contestant  who  will  in  no  way 
embarrass  himself  or  the  program. 

The  next  move,  if  your  answers  to  the 
questionnaire  interest  the  powers-that-be, 
will  be  a  personal  call  from  someone  con- 
nected with  the  show,  who  will  ask  for 
more  details  and  form  a  personal  judg- 
ment. If  this  screening  process  satisfies  the 
caller  that  you  are  a  good  bet,  you  will 
then  be  asked  to  visit  the  show's  offices  in 
New  York.  (From  out  of  town,  at  their 
expense,  if  you  seem  likely  material.) 

Here  the  plot  thickens,  and  you  get  your 
first  experience  as  a  quiz  contestant,  and 
as  a  character  to  whom  this  kind  of  won- 
derful thing  couldn't  possibly  be  happen- 
ing. (But  it  is.)  You  are  made  to  feel  com- 
fortable and  at  ease,  while  questions  in  the 
subject  that  interests  you  are  asked  by  a 
group  of  the  staff  members.  Your  range  of 
knowledge — or  lack  of  it — shows  up  fairly 
quickly.  If  it's  good,  and  they  decide  you 
have  the  personality  to  stand  up  under 
TV  broadcasting  conditions,  the  chances 
are  that  you're  in.  And  on. 

The  $64,000  Challenge  works  about  the 
same  way.  Those  who  want  to  match 
knowledge  with  a  $64,000  Question  cham- 
pion face  the  same  procedures  before  ap- 
pearing with  the  champ  and  with  Ralph 
Story,  the  relaxed  master  of  ceremonies. 
Ralph,  thirty-seven  this  August,  original- 
ly came  from  Kalamazoo,  Michigan,  start- 
ed on  local  radio  stations,  moved  on  to 
radio  in  Buffalo,  New  York.  He  was  a  P-51 
Mustang  pilot,  with  sixty-three  fighter- 
escort  missions  to  his  credit  on  the  Euro- 
pean continent  during  World  War  II,  went 
back  to  Buffalo  radio,  finally  to  CBS-TV 
in  Los  Angeles,  before  his  present  assign- 
ment. He  has  a  teen-age  son. 

Ralph's  one  of  the  new  breed  of  quiz- 
masters who  give  out  with  no  fireworks, 
no  dramatics,  but  keep  the  suspense  and 
drama  intrinsic  to  the  whole  concept  of 
the  show.  They  work  with  quiet  sincerity, 
have  poise  that  communicates  to  the  con- 
testants. All  successful  quizmasters,  past 
and  present,  have  great  warmth  with  the 
people  they  meet  on  the  shows  and  the 
knack  of  making  the  contestant  seem  the 
real  star,  rather  than  themselves. 

Hal  March  emerged  in  his  middle  30's 
as    the    quiet-voiced    quizmaster    of    The 
T    $64,000  Question,  after  a  long  preparation 
¥    ranging  from  public  performances  as  ama- 
R    teur  welterweight  boxer  in  his  late  teens 
to  night-club  comedian  and  featured  per- 
former on  some  of  the  country's  most  pop- 


ular radio  and  TV  programs.  He  served  in 
the  Army  as  a  radar  operator  in  the  Coast 
Artillery,  later  was  half  of  the  comedy 
team  of  Sweeney  and  March,  was  the 
"next-door  neighbor"  on  the  Burns  and 
Allen  show  and,  later,  Imogene  Coca's  TV 
husband  on  her  series.  He  is  married  to 
the  former  Candy  Toxton  Torme,  dotes  on 
her  little  boy  and  girl  by  a  former  mar- 
riage— and  their  own  baby  son,  born  this 
past  June. 

The  programs,  Twenty-One  and  Tic  Tac 
Dough,  on  NBC-TV,  are  produced  by  the 
company  of  which  Jack  Barry,  their  em- 
cee, is  an  executive.  (They  also  have  an 
exciting  new  one  called  High-Low.)  Pros- 
pective contestants  for  either  Twenty-One 
or  Tic  Tac  Dough  (based  on  the  old  child- 
hood game  of  Tick-Tack-Toe)  should 
write  a  letter  all  about  themselves  and 
address  it  to  the  producers,  Barry  &  En- 
right,  667  Madison  Avenue,  New  York  21, 
N.  Y.  If  the  letter  catches  their  interest, 
anyone  who  is  in  the  New  York  area — or 
expects  to  be  there  shortly — receives  a 
note  giving  instructions  to  call  the  office 
for  an  appointment. 

At  the  office,  the  would-be  contestant 
takes  a  preliminary  written  examination 
consisting  of  one  hundred  multiple-choice 
questions.  This  takes  about  half  an  hour. 
If  contestants  score  extremely  well,  and 
appear  to  be  acceptable  personally,  they 
are  then  asked  if  they  want  to  take  the 
further  examination  for  Twenty-One,  the 
tougher  and  financially  more  richly  re- 
warding of  the  two  shows  (prize  money 
on  Tic  Tac  Dough,  however,  has  risen  to 
around  $15,000,  on  occasion).  Many  per- 
sons have  no  desire  to  get  on  a  big  program 
like  Twenty-One,  feeling  that  Tic  Tac 
Dough  will  be  less  strenuous  and  more 
fun  for  them  personally.  In  that  case,  they 
meet  with  one  of  the  staff  members  of  that 
show  for  further  interview,  and  if  ap- 
proved by  him  are  passed  on  to  the  pro- 
ducer, who  makes  final  decision.  (Inci- 
dentally, look  for  Tic  Tac  Dough  to  become 
a  night-time  show  on  September  12.) 

Now  that  we  have  disposed  of  T.T.D. 
and  can  go  back  to  Twenty-One — and  the 
contestants  who  have  scored  up  to  or  be- 
yond a  certain  high  mark  in  the  first  writ- 
ten examination  and  have  elected  to  take 
the  stiffer  exam — we'll  find  out  just  how 
stiff  it  is.  This  one,  too,  is  written,  requires 
about  three  hours,  covers  363  questions  in 
121  categories!  The  contestant  who  "pass- 
es" is  brought  in  to  meet  the  producer  of 
Twenty-One,  who  talks  to  him  quite  a 
while.  It's  a  sort  of  personality  test.  After 
that,  there's  the  meeting  with  the  pro- 
gram's two  top  men,  who  make  all  final 
decisions,  to  ensure  that  each  contestant 
will  be  the  kind  of  person  you  yourself 
would  like  to  have  visit  your  home. 

A  word  here  is  necessary  for  those  who 
live  out  of  town:  These  two  programs  send 
a  man  around  the  country  to  interview 
people  who  have  written  interesting  let- 
ters. He  brings  in  his  reports,  accompanied 
by  snapshots  or  photos,  and  on  the  basis 
of  these  it  is  determined  whether  certain 
people  should  be  flown  to  New  York  at 
the  show's  expense  for  interviews. 

Jack  Barry,  emcee  of  Twenty-One  and 
also  of  the  daytime  version  of  Tic  Tac 
Dough,  was  a  salesman  thirteen  years  ago, 
and  he  still  has  the  easy  and  pleasant,  but 
decisive  manner  of  a  good  businessman. 
Now  in  his  late  30's,  he  has  had  a  fine  ca- 
reer in  top-rated  TV  and  radio  shows.  He 
is  married  to  the  former  Marcia  Van 
Dyke,  who  was  an  actress,  singer  and  con- 
cert violinist.    They  have  two  young  sons. 

If  you  are — or  plan  to  be — in  the  area 
of  Hollywood,  California,  and  you  want  to 
join   Groucho   and   match   wits  with   that 


wily  Mr.  Marx  on  You  Bet  Your  Life, 
there  are  several  ways  to  do  it.  You  could 
be  sought  out  by  the  program  for  a  num- 
ber of  reasons:  Something  interesting  has 
been  told  or  written  about  you  (in  which 
case  they  may  seek  you,  wherever  you 
are).  Or  your  job  makes  you  stand  out — 
you're  a  public  official,  a  distinguished 
foreign  visitor,  an  explorer,  a  religious 
leader  (practically  every  faith  has  been 
represented  to  date).  Or  a  wild-animal 
trainer — a  VIP  of  any  sort.  (Groucho  has 
a  ball  poking  fun  at  big-name  contestants, 
has  found  them  to  be  folks  who  can  "take 
it,"  whereas  a  little  guy  hasn't  the  same 
defenses.  So  he  really  lets  loose  on  the 
bigger  fellows,  who  can  look  out  for  them- 
selves, and  everyone  gets  kicks  out  of  it.) 

You  could  be  "discovered"  by  one  of 
the.  program's  representatives  who,  work- 
ing with  the  sponsor,  set  up  booths  at  state 
fairs  and  rodeos  and  such  places,  talk  to 
people  in  general  and  keep  on  the  lookout 
for  those  who  seem  likely  candidates  for 
the  show.  Or  you  could  write  to  the  show 
itself,  care  of  NBC-TV,  Sunset  and  Vine, 
Hollywood,  Calif.,  or  call  the  show's  offices 
for  an  interview  appointment.  Three  staff 
members  conduct  these  interviews,  and 
much  depends  upon  their  first  impressions. 

"Anyone  who  wants  an  interview  with 
us  can  come  in  and  have  it.  We  never  re- 
fuse anyone,"  a  staff  interviewer  told  us. 
"We  try  to  get  a  balance  with  six  people 
planned  for  a  show,  all  different.  Never 
all  men  or  all  women,  never  all  married 
couples.  We  like  good  down-to-earth 
housewives.  They  are  the  bread-and-but- 
ter of  the  show.  Everybody  roots  for  them; 
viewers  love  them.  If  they  have  an  inter- 
esting hobby,  this  helps,  but  they  don't 
have  to.  We  like  people,  too,  who  are  in 
the  workaday  business  world.  We  often 
select  contestants  on  the  basis  of  sheer 
personality,  because  we  think  viewers  will 
enjoy  them.  Contestants  should  lack  self- 
consciousness,  be  warm  and  friendly— and, 
of  course,  reasonably  well-informed  to  an- 
swer questions  from  Groucho." 

Another  way  of  getting  on  Yoii  Bet  Your 
Life  is  to  be  in  the  studio  audience,  but 
that's  for  a  later  date  and  not  the  same 
evening.  Write  well  in  advance  for  tickets 
— the  usual  four-to-eight  weeks — and  join 
the  crowd  going  in,  try  to  be  "dated"  for 
an  interview,  be  as  natural  as  you  can  and 
tell  everything  about  yourself  that  will 
put  you  in  an  interesting  light.  Don't  go, 
expecting  to  be  chosen  for  the  current 
performance — contestants  have  already 
been  selected  for  that  date  and  are  not 
plucked  from  studio  audiences  shortly  be- 
fore air  time. 

The  rapid-fire,  cigar-puffing  quipmaster 
and  quizmaster  of  You  Bet  Your  Life, 
Groucho  Marx,  came  up  through  years  of 
vaudeville,  stage,  many  Hollywood  mov- 
ies and  a  succession  of  radio  and  TV 
shows.  He  was  long  famous  as  the  domi- 
nant and  tart-tongued  member  of  the 
Marx  Brothers,  a  team  which  at  various 
times  included  all  four  of  his  brothers — 
Chico,  Harpo,  Zeppo  and  Gummo. 

It  was  Mama  Marx,  an  accomplished 
harpist  herself,  who  started  her  five  sons 
in  a  music-vaudeville  career.  Papa  was  a 
tailor  who  must  have  had  a  rich  sense  of 
humor  and  fun  to  have  gone  along  with 
the  whole  zany  crew  of  Marx  offspring. 
Groucho  himself  has  a  daughter  Miriam 
and  son  Arthur  who  are  both  writers.  Ar- 
thur did  a  biography  of  his  dad,  brought 
up  the  question  of  whether  Dad  is  really 
a  sentimentalist  whose  air  of  disillusion- 
ment hides  his  real  feelings,  or  whether  he 
is  as  world-weary  a  cynic  as  he  sounds, 
especially  when  he's  kidding  a  contestant. 


Groucho's  comment  was  typical:  "I  ask 
the  questions,  I  don't  answer  them."  His 
eleven-year-old  daughter,  Melinda,  has 
appeared  with  him  on  television,  seems 
likely  to   carry   on  the  thespian  tradition. 

Two  For  The  Money  should  be  addressed 
in  care  of  CBS-TV  in  New  York 
(address  already  given).  The  producers  of 
this  show  look  for  interesting  facts, 
unusual  hobbies  or  occupations,  or  any 
other  qualities  that  make  contestants 
stand  out  to  advantage.  This  show  prefers 
a  snapshot  or  other  photo  (non-return- 
able) with  the  initial  letter.  (If  you  have 
any  to  spare,  it  is  never  a  bad  idea  to  send 
along  a  snapshot  with  your  first  request  in 
writing  any  program.)  Here,  as  in  every 
other  case,  your  letter  should  be  as  in- 
formative and  provocative  as  possible.  You 
want  to  be  invited  for  an  interview. 

Dr.  Mason  Gross,  Provost  and  Professor 
of  Philosophy  at  Rutgers  University,  as- 
sists emcee  Sam  Levenson,  hands  out  the 
questions  and  is  the  judge  of  the  correct- 
ness of  all  answers.  Questions  on  this  show 
get  progressively  harder,  but  are  not  too 
demanding  at  any  time,  and  the  whole  at- 
mosphere is  one  of  fun,  rather  than  strong 
competition  for  money   prizes. 

oam  Levenson,  who  has  been  called  "the 
ex-schoolteacher  with  the  sugar-coated 
psychology  and  a  million-dollar  smile," 
livens  the  show  with  his  own  warm  and 
bubbling  personality  and  his  endless  fund 
of  stories  about  kids  and  parents  and 
family  relationships,  keeping  it  part  Sam 
Levenson  monologues  and  only  part  quiz, 
a  system  which  seems  to  make  everyone 
happy.  Everyone  knows  that  Sam  is  a 
happily  married  man  and  that  there  is  a 
son,  Conrad — who  seems  smart  enough 
and  witty  enough  himself  to  grow  up  to  be 
a  quizmaster  before  long — as  well  as  a 
small  daughter,  Emily. 

Name  That  Tune,  the  musical  quiz, 
should  be  addressed  as  follows:  Name 
That  Tune,  Box  199,  New  York  11,  N.  Y. 
Your  letter  should  be  detailed  enough  to 
take  the  place  of  a  personal  interview. 
"Pretend  that  one  of  our  staff  members 
is  sitting  in  your  kitchen  having  a  cup  of 
coffee  with  you,  and  you're  just  chatting," 
is  their  advice. 

Don't  send  a  mere  list  of  vital  statistics, 
although  these  can  be  included — your 
height,  your  weight,  your  age,  etc.  Be  sure 
to  send  along  a  list  of  seven  songs  to  make 
up  a  Golden  Medley  of  your  choice.  They 
suggest  a  variety  of  tunes,  all  of  which 
should  be  familiar  ones — some  old,  some 
new,  some  fast,  some  slower.  And  they're 
sure  to  want  a  smiling  snapshot.  (Since 
fewer  men  submit  entries  to  the  program, 
a  man  has  an  especially  good  chance.) 

This  is  not  a  show  for  "experts."  No  one 
type  of  contestant  has  proved  better  than 
others  at  naming  tunes.  Grand-prize  win- 
ners have  included  a  fireman  and  farm 
wives,  a  teacher  and  grammar-school  stu- 
dents. Those  who  like  music,  who  live  in 
its  atmosphere  by  listening  to  television, 
radio,  recordings,  and  are  quick  to  re- 
cognize a  tune  and  to  recollect  its  name, 
stand  the  best  chance.  Contestants  are 
paired  off  to  win  a  possible  $25,000  and 
home  viewers  participate  by  sending  in 
their  own  Golden  Medleys. 

Thirty-four-year-old  George  de  Witt, 
quizmaster  of  Name  That  Tune,  began  his 
show-business  career  as  a  high-school 
boy  in  Atlantic  City,  New  Jersey,  while 
doubling  as  a  singing  waiter.  He  served 
in  the  Merchant  Marine  (Norwegian),  in 
the  British  Royal  Air  Force,  and  as  a 
United  States  Army  Air  Force  pilot  after 
this  country  entered  the  war.  He  is  well 
known  as  a  TV  and  night-club  headliner. 
Everybody  who  watches  Name  That  Tune, 
and  George,  knows  he  has  a  little  boy 
named  Jay  who  is  the  biggest  prize  in  his 


daddy's  life  and  is  apparently  headed,  at 
three  years  of  age,  for  a  brilliant  show- 
business  career  of  his   own  later  on. 

To  get  on  Walt  Framer's  ever-popular 
Strike  It  Rich,  your  reason  for  wanting 
to  "strike  it  rich"  is  the  all-important  fac- 
tor. Write  a  letter  to  the  program,  care  of 
CBS-TV  in  New  York,  explaining  as  fully 
as  possible  why  you  would  like  to  win 
some  money.  The  program  will  notify  you 
if  you  are  being  considered,  and  invite 
you  to  come  in  for  an  interview.  The 
kind  of  person  you  are,  the  way  in  which 
you  are  likely  to  conduct  yourself  on  the 
air,  are  of  considerable  importance,  of 
course.  But  the  big  thing  here  is  your 
motive  for  wanting  to  appear  on  the  show 
and  your  need  of  the  money,  whether  for 
yourself  or  your  family,  or  for  the  benefit 
of  some  other  person  or  persons,  or  some 
organization  or  other  worthwhile  cause. 

Host  Warren  Hull,  whose  name  is  prac- 
tically synonymous  with  the  program  be- 
cause of  his  long  association  with  it,  was 
a  musician  in  his  school  days,  became  a 
professional  singer  and  broke  into  acting 
in  stock  and  on  Broadway  and  in  the 
movies.  He  played  lead  parts  in  thirty-six 
Hollywood  motion  pictures,  worked  in 
West  Coast  radio  and  in  the  East,  will 
celebrate  his  tenth  year  as  emcee  on 
Strike  It  Rich.  He  is  married,  has  six 
children  in  his  immediate  family,  plus  a 
couple  of  grandchildren,  and  considers  that 
he  himself  has  indeed  struck  it  very  rich. 

The  Big  Payoff  caters  to  men  as  con- 
testants, but  the  rewards  go  largely  to 
their  womenfolk.  Any  man,  from  ten  to 
one  hundred,  can  write  to  the  program  in 
care  of  CBS-TV  in  New  York.  The  letter 
should  name  the  woman  for  whom  the 
writer  (male)  wants  to  win.  A  husband 
may  wish  to  win  for  a  wife,  a  father  for  a 
daughter,  a  boss  for  a  super-secretary.  A 
couple  attending  the  show  in  person  may 
be  chosen  out  of  the  audience  and  inter- 
viewed just  before  the  show,  if  the  man 
has  an  impressive  reason  for  wishing  to 
reward  the  lady.  Even  a  "Payoff  Partner" 
— a  male  out-of-towner  who  can't  be  in 
New  York  at  the  show — can  join  in  the 
winnings  when  a  contestant  who  is  present 
answers  questions  for  him.  In  addition, 
every  week  a  woman  who  has  no  man  to 
win  for  her  is  chosen  from  the  studio 
audience,  and  a  celebrity  guest  attempts 
to  win  for  her,  becoming  her  "man"  for 
the  moment. 

.fcimcee  of  The  Big  Payoff  is  Randy  Mer- 
riman,  who  co-stars  with  glamorous  Bess 
Myerson.  Randy  is  a  graduate  of  sports 
announcing,  disk-jockeying,  even  circus 
barking  when  he  was  still  a  schoolboy.  He 
has  been  a  doorman  at  various  big-city 
movie  houses,  before  joining  a  vaude- 
ville act  and  then  managing  vaudeville 
theaters.  He  was  a  successful  announcer 
on  radio  before  he  became  a  quizmaster, 
is  married  and  has  three  children,  a  girl 
and  two  boys. 

Because  it  is  primarily  a  stunt  show, 
emcee  Art  Linkletter  and  People  Are  Fun- 
ny seek  out  some  participants  to  fit  cer- 
tain stunts  they  have  in  mind — never  of 
course  letting  contestants  know  why  they 
are  being  approached.  "We  may  need  a 
housewife  one  week,"  producer  John 
Guedel  tells  us.  "We  may  need  a  woman 
for  some  particular  stunt  who  has  a  bub- 
bling, happy  kind  of  personality,  without 
any  other  specific  requirement.  A  stunt 
may  require  a  guy  who  has  become  a 
father  that  day,  or  it  may  require  a  school- 
teacher, or  a  newly  married  couple.  In 
these  cases,  we  look  for  them."  In  addi- 
tion, staff  members  are  always  on  the 
lookout  for  interesting  and  resourceful 
people  who  capture  audience  enthusiasm. 

"But  the  two  major  ways  to  get  on  this 
program,"  Guedel  continues,  "are  the  same 


New!  Clearasil  Medication 

STARVES 
PIMPLES 

SKIN-COLORED. .  .hi<3e$pimp/eswhi/eifwor/cs 


At  last!  A  new-type  greaseless  medication 
especially  for  pimples  that  really  works  ...  as 
proved  in  skin  specialists'  tests  on  202  patients. 
9  out  of  every  10  cases  were  completely  cleared 
up  or  definitely  improved  while  using  clearasil. 
3  MEDICAL  ACTIONS  WORK  FAST 

1 .  PENETRATES  PIMPLES  .  .  .  kera- 
tolytic  action  softens  and  dissolves 
affected  skin  tissue  .  .  .  permits 
medication  to  penetrate  down  into 
any  infected  area. 

2.  ISOLATES  PIMPLES  .  . .  antiseptic 
action  of  this  new-type  medication 
stops  growth  of  bacteria  that  can 
cause  and  spread  pimples. 

3.  'STARVES*  PIMPLES  .  .  .  CLEAR- 
asil's  famous  dry-up  action 
'starves'  pimples  because  it  helps 
to  remove  the  oils  that  pimples 
'feed'  on. 

FLOATS  OUT  BLACKHEADS  too,  with  normal 
■washing!  clearasil  will  work  for  you,  as  in  doctors' 
tests,  or  money  back.  Get  clearasil  today,  only  69tf 
at  all  drug  counters    (economy  size  98<) . 


Clearasil 


Largest-Selling  Pimple 
Medication  in  America  (including  Canada) 


i|00.00 


SONGWRITERS 

TO  THE  WRITER  Of  BEST  SONG  SELECTED   EACH  MONTH 


Send  songs,  poems. Records, copies  furnished. Lei  us  help  you  be  a  success. 

fr  HOLLYWOOD  TUNESMITHS  '"S^K 

No  Nagging 
Backache  Means  a 
Good  Night's  Sleep 

Nagging  backache,  headache,  or  muscular  aches  and 
pains  may  come  on  with  over-exertion,  emotional  up- 
sets or  day  to  day  stress  and  strain.  And  folks  who 
eat  and  drink  unwisely  sometimes  suffer  mild  bladder 
irritation.. .with  that  restless,  uncomfortable  feeling. 

If  you  are  miserable  and  worn  out  because  of 
these  discomforts,  Doan's  Pills  often  help  by  their 
pain  relieving  action,  by  their  soothing  effect  to  ease 
bladder  irritation,  and  by  their  mild  diuretic  action 
through  the  kidneys— tending  to  increase  the  output  f 

of  the  15  miles  of  kidney  tubes.  „ 

So  if  nagging  backache  makes  you  feel  dragged-out, 
miserable,  with  restless,  sleepless  nights,  don't  wait,         R 
try  Doan's  Pills,  get  the  same  happy  relief  millions 
have  enjoyed  for  over  60  years.  Ask  for  new,  large, 
economy  sizeandsavemoney.  Get  Doan's  Pills  today  I      jc 


1 

j: 

as  for  most  others:  You  write  in  and  tell 
enough  about  yourself  to  arouse  interest 
(enclosing  a  snapshot),  and  then  wait  to 
be  asked  to  arjoear  for  a  personal  inter- 
view. The  address  is  John  Guedel  Pro- 
ductions, 8321  Beverly  Blvd.,  Los  Angeles, 
Calif.  Or,  you  write  to  NBC-TV  Ticket 
Division,  Sunset  and  Vine,  Hollywood, 
Calif. — four  to  ei?ht  weeks  in  advance — 
and  ask  for  tickets  to  a  broadcast,  and 
hope  to  be  picked  from  the  studio  audience 
on  the  fateful  day." 

After  twenty-two  years  in  the  business, 
stuntmaster  Art  Linkletter  has  almost  a 
sixth  sense  in  selecting  interesting  and 
amusing  contestants  on  the  basis  of  just  a 
few  seconds  of  pre-broadcast  interviewing. 
People  come  to  the  show,  have  a  chance 
to  be  invited  on  the  stage,  and  nobody — 
whether  a  pre-arranged  guest  or  one 
picked  out  of  the  audience — knows  what 
is  going  to  be  asked  of  him  or  her  until 
Art  says  so  on  the  air. 

Linkletter  himself  gives  the  impression 
of  having  a  perpetual  party  on  his  own 
shows.  Perhaps  it  is  because,  as  the 
adopted  son  of  a  minister  and  his  wife,  he 
came  smack  up  against  the  realities  of 
life  when  he  was  very  young,  and  parties 
and  fun  are  still  something  to  get  wide- 
eyed  about.  He  worked  his  way  through 
San  Diego  State  College,  was  attracted  to 
radio  and  got  into  it  while  still  in  college. 

He's  been  married  since  1935  to  his 
pretty  wife,  Lois,  and  there  are  five  "little 
Links."  Jack,  nearing  20,  now  appears  once 
a  week  on  Dad's  House  Party  program, 
over  CBS-TV  and  Radio;  Dawn,  17,  and 
Robert,  12,  are  hoping;  Sharon,  10,  and 
Diane  8,  are  still  interested  in  dolls  and 
games  and  TV  cowboys  and  spacemen. 

On  his  daily  House  Party,  Art's  love  for 
kids  comes  out  plain  for  all  to  see,  as  does 
his  honest  and  direct  way  of  dealing  with 
them.  On  People  Are  Funny,  his  love  for 
fun-loving  kids  of  all  ages,  from  four  to 
four-score-and-twenty,  comes  out,  equal- 
ly plain  for  all  to  see. 

Contestants  on  Ralph  Edwards'  brain- 
child, Truth  Or  Consequences,  are  chosen 
from  studio  audiences,  except  in  the  case 
of  what  they  call  "frame"  acts,  when  some- 
one is  "framed"  to  appear  for  a  particular 
stunt,  without  previous  knowledge  of  it. 
For  the  average  person  who  wants  to  get 
on  the  show,  the  way  is  simple:  Just  write 
NBC-TV  Ticket  Division,  Sunset  and  Vine, 
Hollywood,  Calif.,  and  ask  for  tickets  far 
enough  in  advance  to  make  it  possible  to 
fill  your  request.  Usually,  it's  about  the 
standard  eight  weeks,  but  it  can  be  much 
longer,  depending  on  the  demand,  so  ask 
early  and  state  the  approximate  date  when 
you  can  be  on  hand. 

Emcee  Bob  Barker  and  the  producer 
screen  and  select  participants  during  the 
half  hour  before  show  time,  looking  for 
those  they  think  will  fit  the  stunts  slated 
for  that  day's  show.  If  one  involves  a 
talkative  woman,  for  instance,  they  look 
for  a  nice,  gabby,  friendly  sort  of  girl  in 
the  audience.  If  they  need  a  salesman  type, 
they  look  for  that  kind  of  man. 

In  the  case  of  some  pre-arranged  stunts 
that  have  to  be  set  up  ahead  of  time,  such 
as  reunions  with  loved  ones  or  old  friends, 
someone  close  to  the  subject  is  informed 
and  sees  to  it  that  the  subject  will  be  in 
the  studio  audience  that  day,  unaware  of 
what  is  to  take  place  or  his  part  in  it. 
Carry-over  stunts  depend  on  the  same 
person  being  available  for  several  days, 
sometimes  weeks,  and  in  these  cases,  too, 
the  contestants  are  "framed"  beforehand. 

It  is  emcee  Bob  Barker  who  is  usually 
T  responsible  for  final  choice  of  a  contestant. 
V  He  has  a  good  idea  of  the  type  of  person 
r  who  will  be  fun  to  work  with  and  will 
play  right  along  with  the  show  and  have 
fun,  too.  Bob  was  born  in  Derrington, 
76 


Washington,  got  his  first  job  in  rad'o  when 
he  was  a  Drury  College  student  in  Spring- 
field,  Missouri,  although  his  big  interest 
then  was  geology  rather  than  dramatics. 
He  was  in  the  Navy  during  World  War  II, 
went  back  to  college,  thought  that  working 
in  a  radio  station  might  be  interesting  and 
stopped  in  at  the  local  station  to  ask  for 
a  job.  Surprisingly,  he  got  it.  They  needed 
an  announcer,  asked  him  to  audition. 

He  had  no  idea  what  that  meant,  but  he 
read  from  a  handful  of  papers  they  handed 
him,  became  newswriter  and  newscaster, 
sportscaster,  disk  jockey,  whatever  was 
required.  Later,  he  specialized  in  audience 
participation  shows,  paving  the  way  for  his 
job  on  Truth  Or  Consequences.  Bob's  wife, 
Dorothy  Jo,  was  his  hieh-school  sweet- 
heart. They  were  married  when  he  got 
his  Navy  wings,  and,  when  he  began  his 
radio  shows,  she  worked  along  with  him. 

Bob  was  "discovered"  for  Truth  Or  Con- 
sequences by  the  fellow  who  first  made  it 
famous,  Ralph  Edwards  (now  emcee  of 
This  Is  Your  Life).  Ralph  heard  Bob  do- 
ing a  show  of  his  own  while  listening  to 
his  car  radio,  and  liked  what  he  heard. 

Beat  The  Clock  and  The  Price  Is  Right 
in  New  York,  and  Queen  For  A  Day  in 
Hollywood,  pick  all  their  contestants  right 
out  of  studio  audiences  only  a  little  while 
before  they  go  on  the  air.  Tickets  for  Beat 
The  Clock  are  obtained  by  writing  to 
CBS-TV  Ticket  Division,  485  Madison 
Avenue,  New  York  22,  N.  Y.  This  is  actu- 
ally a  stunt  or  game  show,  more  than  a 
straight  quiz,  and  everyone  in  the  audi- 
ence has  just  as  good  a  chance  to  be 
chosen  for  it  as  anyone  else.  (We  sug- 
gest you  expect  to  wait  six  or  eight  weeks 
after  your  ticket  request,  however,  as  the 
letters  and  postcards  pour  in  continuously.) 

Contestants  are  picked  in  pairs,  most 
often  being  engaged  or  married  couples, 
but  not  always.  Sometimes  two  strangers 
in  the  audience  are  paired  off,  if  both 
agree.  Top  prize  involves  a  "bonus  stunt" 
that  starts  at  $5,000  and  works  its  way  up, 
week    after   week,    in    $1,000    jumps. 

Bud  Collyer,  emcee  and  co-producer  of 
Beat  The  Clock  ever  since  it  came  to 
television  from  radio  in  the  spring  of  1950, 
was  a  man  ahead  of  the  times  in  the  re- 
strained and  quiet  way  he  works  with 
contestants,  keeping  them  in  the  spotlight 
and  letting  them  have  all  the  fun.  With  a 
law  degree  from  Fordham  University  in 
New  York,  and  two  years  of  a  law  clerk- 
ship, Bud  abandoned  it  all  for  show  busi- 
ness, following  the  footsteps  of  his  actress 
mother  and  his  actress  sister,  June  Coll- 
yer, wife  of  Stu  Erwin.  He's  also  married 
to  an  actress,  Marian  Shockley,  has  two 
teen-age  daughters  and  a  teen-age  son. 

The  Price  Is  Right,  the  daily  morning 
program,  suggests  you  write  in  well  ahead 
for  tickets  to  the  broadcasts,  care  of  NBC- 
TV  Ticket  Division,  30  Rockefeller  Plaza, 
New  York,  N.  Y.  As  mentioned,  contest- 
ants are  picked  from  the  studio  audience. 
The  show  awards  prizes  to  contestants 
who  guess  the  sales  value  of  those  same 
prizes,  and  a  contestant  stays  on  as  long 
as  he  keeps  winning  over  the  three  others 
in  his  "bids"  for  the  assorted  merchandise 
(valued  from  a  few  dollars  to  more  than 
$15,000).  Out-of-town  and  other  home 
viewers  participate  in  the  biggest  prizes 
via  a  "Showcase"  bid  by  mail.  It's  not 
strictly  a  quiz  program,  as  you  can  see, 
but  falls  roughly  into  that  category. 

(Another  version  of  The  Price  Is  Right 
is  scheduled  for  night-time  TV  viewing  be- 
ginning the  first  week  in  October.  Wheth- 
er Bill  Cullen  will  be  emcee  of  both  day 
and  night  versions  is  still  unannounced,  as 
we  go  to  press.) 

Bill  Cullen,  the  present  show's  jaunty 
37-year-old  host,  had  a  long  preparation 
for  this  job.  He  started  a  pre-medical 
course  at  the  University  of  Pittsburgh,  his 


home  city,  left  college  when  family  money 
got  tight,  worked  in  a  garage,  got  a 
chance  to  be  a  Pittsburgh  radio  disk  jock- 
ey. He  has  announced  orchestras,  done 
staff  announcing,  got  his  first  big  emcee 
break  on  a  quiz  show.  He  has  been  a 
midget-auto  racer,  a  flyer,  an  active  mem- 
ber of  the  civilian  defense  air  arm.  Bill  is 
married  to  Ann  Macomber,  former  model, 
movie  and  TV  actress. 

Like  all  shows  for  which  participants 
are  picked  right  out  of  the  audience,  every 
candidate  for  Queen  For  A  Day  arrives 
on  stage  and  on  camera  by  following 
the  same  procedure.  First,  you  write  for 
tickets— to  the  NBC-TV  Ticket  Division, 
Sunset  and  Vine,  Hollywood,  Calif. — ex- 
pecting the  usual  eight  weeks'  wait. 
When  you  have  your  ticket,  you  fill  in  an- 
swers to  the  few  simple  questions  on  it. 
If  I  were  chosen  Queen  For  A  Day  my 
wish  would  be  .  .  .  and  then  add  your 
reason.  Third,  you  mention  anything  un- 
usual about  yourself.  That's  it. 

Cards  are  turned  in  at  the  door  as  you 
enter  the  Moulin  Rouge,  where  the  broad- 
cast originates.  They  are  then  brought  to 
a  panel  composed  of  six  of  the  staff  per- 
sonnel of  the  show.  They  go  over  all  cards, 
reading  every  wish  and  every  reason  for 
wanting  it  to  be  fulfilled,  and  finally 
choose  twenty-one.  These  twenty-one  are 
called  up  on  the  stage  by  number  only 
and  interviewed  by  emcee  Jack  Bailey 
and  the  producer.  Bailey  himself  inter- 
views them  for  personality,  voice,  general 
presentation — and  the  honesty  and  sin- 
cerity of  the  wish.  (If  the  wish  isn't 
sincere,  that  comes  out  during  the  on-the- 
air  interview,  and  the  audience  rejects 
the  candidate.) 

t  ive  women  are  finally  chosen  and 
seated  at  the  Candidates'  Table  when  the 
show  goes  on  the  air.  They  tell  their  stor- 
ies, the  studio  audience  shows  by  its  ap- 
plause (registered  on  an  applause  meter) 
which  one  has  given  the  best  reason  for 
being  Queen.  The  important  thing  here  is 
to  be  in  the  Hollywood  area  already — or 
to  say  when  you  will  be  and  get  in  your 
request  for  tickets  well  ahead — and  to 
have  a  good  and  definite  reason  for  want- 
ing to  be  Queen  For  A  Day.  The  kind  of 
reason  that  will  stand  up  well  under  di- 
rect and  searching  questioning. 

Jack  Bailey  has  been  assisting  at  these 
coronations  for  eleven  years,  on  radio  and 
TV,  and  during  that  time  he  has  dis- 
tributed around  fourteen  million  in  gifts 
to  women  who  have  flocked  to  the  pro- 
gram from  all  over  the  country.  Perhaps 
his  zest  for  his  job  started  back  in  his 
childhood,  when  he  was  chosen  at  the  age 
of  twelve  to  act  as  the  church  Santa  Claus 
in  Hampton,  Iowa,  where  his  family  lived. 
In  his  early  teens,  he  began  to  get  the 
training  for  his  future  career  by  joining 
a  touring  stock  company. 

Jack  is  a  veteran  performer  on  both 
radio  and  television  now,  has  the  same 
enthusiasm  with  which  he  started,  thinks 
the  ladies  who  appear  on  his  show,  bless 
'em,  are  wonderful.  He  has  an  attractive 
Queen  of  his  own,  his  wife  Carol,  whom 
he  married  seventeen  years  ago. 

So  there  you  have  it.  The  rules  are 
sometimes  changed,  the  formats  altered  a 
little,  so  watch  your  television  screen.  An- 
nouncements to  help  people  who  want  to 
participate  are  usually  made  at  some 
point  in  each  program. 

To  start  things  off,  however,  in  most 
cases,  you  write  the  best  letter  about  your- 
self that  you  know  how,  remembering 
that  it  must  compete  with  thousands'  of 
others  constantly  coming  in.  Or  join  a 
studio  audience  and  look  your  brightest 
when  they  begin  rounding  up  the  likely 
candidates.  Then  all  you  have  to  do  is  get 
up  and  prove  you  know  all  the  answers! 


He  Will  Never  Be  a  Has-Been! 


(Continued  jrom  page  42) 
.  let  the  facts  talk.  I'd  feel  funny  blow- 
ing my  own  horn." 

Gene  Smith,  his  cousin,  best  friend  and 
confidant,  has  come  in  from  the  kitchen 
of  the  two-room  suite,  along  with  his 
brother  Carol,  Arthur  Hooten  and  Cliff 
Gleaves — all  school  chums  and  buddies 
from  Memphis.     Elvis  looks  up. 

"It's  getting  time  for  lunch,"  says  Gene. 
"What's  for  you?" 

"I'm  not  hungry."  Elvis  glances  at  the 
publicity  man  Johnny  Rothwell  and  the 
reporter.  "You  folks  eat  yet?" 

"Yes,  we  did,"  says  the  publicity  man. 

"You  got  to  eat,"  Gene  insists  to  Elvis. 
The  boys  are  looking  concerned. 

"I  don't  if  I'm  not  hungry,"  says  Elvis. 
But  with  a  firm  "I'm  sending  something 
up,  anyway,"  Gene  walks  out,  the  boys 
following. 

Elvis  jerks  his  chin  toward  the  door. 
"They've  been  calling  these  friends  of 
mine  'bodyguards.'  Do  I  look  like  I  need 
a  bodyguard?  And  why  take  it  out  on 
these  boys?  They're  here  to  keep  me  com- 
pany. Sure,  they  run  interference  for  me 
when  I  go  in  and  out  of  stage  doors.  You 
know  how  the  kids  are  sometimes — they'd 
tear  my  clothes  off  for  souvenirs,  and 
that's  no  joke.  But  bodyguards!  I  swear! 
Why  would  I  want  bodyguards  against  my 
own  fans?  I'm  on  the  go  so  much,  away 
from  my  family.  Can't  people  understand 
I  get  lonesome?  Having  my  friends  here 
makes  the  rushing  around  easier  to  bear." 

The  reporter  is  struck  by  a  coincidence. 
"Did  you  know  that  Lionel  Barrymore  and 
Robert  Taylor  were  listed  on  this  floor? 
Also  Stewart  Granger,  Yul  Brynner, 
Glenn  Ford.  .   ." 

Elvis  snaps  out  of  a  brooding  silence  to 
ask,  "Say,  I  wonder  if  Gable  ever  used 
this  room?" 

"Gable  never  did,"  says  the  publicity 
man.  "But  Sinatra  did  when  he  made 
'High  Society,'  and  Crosby  used  it  when 
he  did  'Man  on  Fire.' " 

"Gollee!  Crosby  and  Sinatra,"  echoes 
Elvis,  lost  in  the  marvel  of  some  private 
dream.  "And  now  me?  Don't  pinch  me 
or  I'll  wake  up  .  .  ." 

He  has  draped  himself  into  a  leather 
club  chair.  He  seems  relaxed  and  con- 
templative. It's  hard  to  believe  he  has  been 
on  the  treadmill  since  early  morning.  At 
eight,  he  reported  to  the  recording  studio 
for  rehearsals;  then  a  stiff  workout  at  the 
gym;  then  back  for  two  more  hours  of 
intense  rehearsing.  Now  a  fast  lunch  is  to 
be  downed  in  the  course  of  an  interview 
which,  because  of  its  subject  matter,  is 
bound  to  be  emotionally  disturbing. 

The  reporter  studies  him  curiously.  How 
does  he  manage  it?  she  wonders.  Yet  there 
he  is,  smiling,  his  white  pigskin  shoes,  tan 
suede  jacket  and  dark  yellow  slacks  giv- 
ing him  a  surface  air  of  casual  jauntiness. 
He  notices  her  staring  at  the  disc-shaped 
ornament  hanging  around  his  neck,  and  he 
fingers  it  fondly.  "It's  Indian  work,"  he  ex- 
plains. "A  very  sweet  kid  gave  it  to  me 
when  I  did  a  show  up  in  Canada.  This 
kid — when  she  hung  it  over  my  head,  she 
told  me  it  would  bring  me  luck.  Luck! 
What  else  have  I  had  butl" 

With  his  sideburns  gone — for  the  first 
half  of  the  film,  he  wears  a  crew  cut 
wig- — Elvis  looks  younger  than  at  any 
period  since  he  hit  the  big-time.  Part  of 
this  is  due  to  the  fact  that  he  has  dropped 
from  183  to  172  pounds  during  the  nine 
days  of  his  most  recent  personal-appear- 
ance tour.  Though  he  looks  younger  in  the 
physical  sense,  there  is  a  new  quality  of 
firmness  and  deliberation  in  his  manner. 

"I  don't  eat  or  sleep  too  well  on  these 


trips,"  says  Elvis.  "I  get  too  keyed  up  and, 
when  I  go  back  to  my  room,  the  whole 
performance  keeps  racing  through  my  head 
over  and  over — especially  if  it  was  a  bad 
one." 

No  question  has  been  asked  but  he 
evidently  senses  one.  "Oh,  sure,  I  always 
know  when  it  hasn't  been  up  to  par.  May- 
be the  audience  doesn't  feel  anything 
wrong,  but  I  can  feel  right  down  in  my 
bones  when  it  hasn't  been  a  real  knocked- 
out-and-gone  show.  That's  when  I  need 
the  fellows  around  me  most.  Gene  will 
start  talking  about  the  old  days  back  home, 
and  Carol  or  Cliff  or  someone  will  kick  it 
around  and  we'll  remember  this  or  that.  It 
always  ends  the  same  way.  I  get  a  terrible 
hunger  to  talk  to  my  folks.  Generally,  I 
pick  up  the  phone  and  call  them." 

Suddenly,  he  chuckles  softly.  "The  things 
you  writers  say!  One  fellow  came  to  see 
me  and  he  spotted  a  book  on  the  table. 
Matter  of  fact,  it  wasn't  my  book — some- 
body forgot  it.  'So  you  read,'  he  says.  I 
began  to  do  a  burn.  'Of  course  I  read,'  I 
told  him.  Then  he  says,  'Do  you  like  "the 
three  B's"?'  So  I  said,  'Are  they  any  kin 
to  "the  three  R's"?'  So  he  wrote  that 
'Elvis  never  heard  of  Bach,  Beethoven  or 
Brahms.'  I  told  this  story  to  another 
writer  and  she  looked  at  me  and  said,  'I 
think  I'll  do  a  story  on  "Is  Elvis  Going 
Longhair?"'  I  guess  if  she  saw  me  play- 
ing pool,  which  I  find  relaxing,  she'd  do  a 
piece  on  'Is  Elvis  going  hoodlum?' " 

He  grins  at  the  reporter  and  asks  slyly, 
"Didn't  you  write  a  column  about  which 
young  man  will  replace  Elvis?" 

"Which  do  you  think  will?"  the  reporter 
fires  back. 

Elvis  throws  back  his  head  and  roars  at 
the  thrust.  "Like  the  Colonel  says  .  .  . 
quote,  There's  plenty  of  room  at  the  top, 
unquote." 

A  knock  comes  at  the  door  and  two 
busboys  enter  with  his  lunch.  The  tray 
holds  a  rasher  of  bacon,  a  double  order  of 
mashed  potatoes,  a  bowl  of  brown  gravy, 
a  plate  of  sliced  tomatoes,  two  large  glasses 
of  tomato  juice  and  an  order  of  bread 
and  butter.  "Me  for  the  simple  food,"  re- 
marks Elvis.  "I'd  rather  eat  cornbread  and 
buttermilk  in  private  than  the  fanciest 
meal  in  a  restaurant  with  everyone  watch- 
ing me  like  I  was  a  trained  seal."  He  points 
his  fork  at  the  reporter.  "I'm  not  knocking 
my  fans.  They  put  the  food  on  this  plate. 
But  I  like  to  eat  in  quiet." 

The  reporter  nods.  "What  do  you  think 
of  Tommy  Sands?"  she  asks. 

Elvis'  eyes  brighten.  "You  know  Tom- 
my? That's  a  great  boy.  He's  got  it." 

The  reporter  has  taken  a  clip  of  papers 
from  her  bag  and  Elvis,  seeing  this,  shrugs. 
"You've  been  checking  on  how  I'm  doing?" 

"I  picked  these  up  on  my  way  home.  .  . 
at  the  Colonel's  office."  The  clippings  cover 
the  nine-day  tour  Elvis  made  prior  to  be- 
ginning "Jailhouse  Rock"  at  M-G-M.  In 
fourteen  appearances,  his  troupe  netted 
$308,000— after  taxes.  He  drew  a  larger 
turnout  in  Philadelphia  than  President 
Eisenhower  did  in  his  last  campaign.  There, 
said  the  Inquirer's  front-page  story,  he 
had  to  sing  to  himself  because  of  the 
"frenzied  applause."  In  St.  Louis,  he 
racked  up  $32,000  for  one  performance.  He 
wiggled,  wailed  and  thumped  his  guitar 
for  more  than  28,000  adoring  fans  at  his 
two  shows  in  Detroit,  and  one  hundred 
forty  extra  policemen  were  assigned  to 
Olympia  auditorium — plus  the  twelve 
special  police,  ten  patrolmen  and  staff  of 
ushers  who  helped  him  in  and  out  of  the 
theater.  Almost  1,000  cheering  fans  fought 
a  small  but  determined  battle,  trying  to 
get  a  glimpse  of  their  idol  in  his  dressing- 


Tall  fashions  styled 
to  fit  and  priced  no 
higher  than  regular 
misses'  size  fashions. 
In  sizes  10  to  22. 

Velvet  collar  adds  charm 
to  this  tweedy  Rayon-and- 
Acetate  Sheath  Dress,  only 
$8.49!  Others  $3.39  up. 
Also  coats,  sportswear, 
hose,  shoes  and  lingerie. 


m^m     All        0ver  Five-Seven  Shops 

■fflWfflpiWl    ^Avenue, 
r  —  I    ^^^    Labi    New  York  17,  N.Y. ■ 


Please  send  me  FREE  Tall  Girls  Style  Book  (T-2) 


! 


Name 


Address 


Post  Office 


State 


500  actiilds  Photo 


Yes,  up  to  $500  and  more  PAID  if  used  for 
TV,  Calendar  or  Magazine  Ads.  YOUR  CHILD 
has  same  opportunity.  Send  ONE  small  photo 
for  approval.  Print  child's  and  mother's  name 
and  address  on  back.  Returned  in  2  weeks 
with  report.  (Ages  6  mo.  to  18  yrs.) 

NO  OBLIGATION.  (Established  1946) 
HOLLYWOOD  SPOTLITE,  Dept.  Al 
8346   Beverly   Blvd.,    Hollywood,    Calif. 


W   *r     *      »     *      V  ' 
I     WHY  Have  Dark  or 
[  Discolored  Skin,  Freckles, 
Ugly  Skin  Spots- 


WHEN  Mercolized  Wax  Cream's 
amazing:  7  night  plan  lightens, 
beautifies  skin  while  you  sleep! 

Just  follow  the  famous  Mercolized  Wax 
Cream  7  night  plan  to  a  whiter,  clearer, 
lovelier  complexion.  Apply  specially  med- 
icated Mercolized  Wax  Cream  to  face, 
arms,  or  elsewhere  each  night 
for  one  week.  You'll  begin  to  see 
results  almost  at  once,  as  it  light- 
ens dark  skin,  blotches,  freckles 
and  ugly  skin  spots  as  if  by  magic! 
This  is  not  a  cover-up  cosmetic; 
Mercolized  Wax  Cream  works 
UNDER  the  skin  surface.  Beautiful  women 
have  used  this  time-tested  plan  for  over  40 
years  —  you'll  love  its  fast,  sure,  longer 
lasting  results!   Mercolized  Wax  Cream  is 
sold  on  a  100%  guarantee  or  money  back. 

MERCOLIZED  WAX  CREAM 

At  All  Drug  and  Cosmetic  Counters 


Lightens 

dark  skin, 
freckles 
and  ugly 
skin  spots. 


room — they  simply  wouldn't  believe  loud- 
speaker announcements  that  he  had  al- 
ready left  for  his  hotel. 

Most  of  the  clippings  reported  that  huge 
crowds  had  begun  to  queue  up  at  the  box 
office  before  9  A.M.,  for  shows  that  were 
scheduled  for  2  P.M.  The  evening  crowds, 
while  equally  large  and  enthusiastic,  were 
said  to  be  sprinkled  with  older  people 
who  helped  bring  a  measure  of  order  to 
the  proceedings.  One  account  stated  that 
"Presley,  the  troubadour  with  the  long 
sideburns,  gives  off  more  electricity  than 
the   Edison   Co.'s   combined   transmitters." 

Flipping  through  the  sheaf  of  papers,  the 
reporter  makes  note  of  the  fact  that  Elvis 
is  still  garnering  an  estimated  30,000  fan 
letters  a  week  and  that  he  received  over 
300,000  cards  at  Christmas,  including  a 
goodly  number  from  abroad.  It  carried  the 
secretarial  staff  well  into  May  before  they 
were  through  tabulating  this  avalanche. 
And,  not  so  long  ago,  Glenwood  Dodgson, 
a  male  beautician  of  Grand  Rapids — acting 
on  the  principle  that  "whoever  is  adored 
will  be  mimicked" — came  up  with  a 
"slicked-back  haircut  with  tufted  side- 
burns a  la  Presley."  It  was  featured  by 
Life  magazine  and  the  United  Press.  With- 
in a  span  of  three  months,  more  than  15,000 
eager  customers,  both  girls  and  boys,  had 
swarmed  into  his  chain  of  shops,  begging 
to    be    done    over    in    their    idol's    image. 

The  reporter  reads  this  item  aloud.  Elvis, 
listening  with  knife  and  fork  poised,  lets 
out  a  hearty  guffaw.  "I'm  flattered,  you 
bet,"  he  says.  "But  what  bowls  me  over 
is  that  a  lot  of  them  were  girls!"  He 
points  to  his  "butch"  wig.  "I  sure  hope 
they  don't  run  out  after  this  new  picture 
and  get  themselves  crew  cuts.  I  like  girls 
to  be  girly-looking  .  .  .  you  know?" 

In  his  own  work,  Elvis  shows  a  sharp 
distaste  for  copying.  He  has  struggled 
mightily  to  hammer  out  a  style  and  sound 
of  his  own,  and  the  results  are  now  a  mat- 
ter of  recording  history.  For  nearly  two 
years,  his  renditions  have  topped  the  best- 
selling  lists  compiled  by  disc  jockeys,  juke- 
box operators  and  TV  and  radio  pollsters. 

The  reporter  sees  a  notation  by  Colonel 
Parker  on  one  of  the  pages:  "To  show  how 
foolish  this  stuff  about  Elvis  slipping  can 
be — his  'All  Shook  Up'  is  number  one  on 
the  hit  parade."  There  is  another  note  on 
the  inspirational  numbers  Elvis  has  cut: 
"They  said  the  fans  wouldn't  accept  'Peace 
in  the  Valley,'  'I  Believe,'  and  'Take  My 
Hand.'  Too  highbrow.  Well,  all  these  are 
selling  fine.  The  kids  love  them  as  much  as 
the  older  folks.  Who  can  tell  how  many 
of  these  gospel  tunes  will  be  still  selling 
in  the  next  few  years — but  I'd  bet  it  will 
be  plenty.  There's  a  steady  market  for 
these  tunes  .  .  ." 

Has  Elvis  thought  of  giving  Calypso  a 
fling?  Elvis  shakes  his  head  thoughtfully. 
"I  did  try  a  couple — in  private,  that  is. 
But  it  didn't  feel  right  for  me.  I  get  a  lift 
hearing  Belafonte  and  the  singers  who  do 
Calypso,  and  I  hope  they  make  millions. 
But  it's  not  for  me." 

The  publicity  man  remarks  that  Elvis, 
in  spite  of  his  youth,  has  a  reliable  in- 
stinct for  picking  commercial  tunes.  "He 
picks  his  numbers,  and  not  only  that — he 
picked  the  titles  for  his  three  movies.  He 
did  it  by  figuring  out  which  song  would 
score  the  biggest  hit.  Then  the  studios  used 
them  for  the  titles.  You  know  he  guessed 
right  on  'Love  Me  Tender'  and  'Loving 
You,'  and  we're  betting  here  that  'Jail- 
house  Rock'  will  top  both  of  them." 

His  lunch  now  over,  Elvis  is  back  in  the 
leather  chair,  arms  locked  behind  his 
T  head.  The  other  lads  have  returned.  Gene 
V  lies  down  with  a  mystery  book.  The  rest 
:--  play  cards.  Elvis  observes  them  a  min- 
ute, then  grins  broadly.  "Hot  bunch  of 
highbrows,  aren't  we?"  He  eyes  the  re- 
78 


porter  alertly  as  she  jots  a  note,  and  she 
explains:  "I'm  setting  a  few  words  down  on 
a  theory  I  have — I  think  some  of  the  people 
who  think  you're  slipping  are  the  sort  who 
react  against  any  change.  Have  you  no- 
ticed, every  time  you've  changed  your 
pace,   they've   started   the   same   refrain?" 

"Actually,"  says  Elvis,  "I  didn't  change 
pace,  as  far  as  the  religious  songs  go. 
If  that's  highbrow,  then  I've  been  that 
way  since  I  was  five,  because  I've  been 
singing  them  since  I  started  going  to 
church." 

Watching  him  bent  over  in  meditation, 
silent,  his  chin  in  hand,  the  reporter  is 
struck  by  an  idea.  Can  it  be  that  Elvis  is 
just  growing  up,  and  that's  what  is  both- 
ering some  of  his  critics?  After  all,  it's 
quite  a  while  since  he  did  the  Steve  Allen 
and  Ed  Sullivan  shows  that  started  him 
skyrocketing.  Aloud  she  asks,  "Are  you 
taking  acting  lessons?  You  once  told  me 
that  remembering  lines  wasn't  as  hard  as 
interpreting   them — is   it   easier   now?" 

Elvis  hesitates.  "It's  easier  .  .  .  but 
I've  just  begun  to  scratch  the  surface.  I've 
got  a  'fur  piece  to  go'  before  I'll  call  my- 
self a  good  actor." 

Having  interviewed  many  of  the  pro- 
fessionals Elvis  has  worked  with,  the  re- 
porter quotes  Debra  Paget,  Richard  Egan, 
Wendell  Corey,  Bing  Crosby,  Fred  Astaire, 
Natalie  Wood  and  Ernest  Borgnine  to  the 
effect  that  he  shows  promise  of  becom- 
ing an  actor  of  rare  dramatic  distinction. 

Elvis  listens  intently,  his  face  expres- 
sionless. She  reads  a  quotation  from  Corey. 
"The  boy  learns  fast.  Everything  he  does 
is  touched  with  talent.  I  thought  him  vast- 
ly improved  over  his  first  job  of  acting. 
He  seemed  better  prepared  and  it  was  a 
more  suitable  part.  His  timing  was  fine 
and  he  reacted  more  naturally  to  his  fellow 
actors.  He's  learning  how  to  have  an  im- 
pact on  the  whole  scene." 

Corey's  interest  in  Elvis  was  sparked 
by  his  own  thirteen-year-old  daughter, 
Robin.  It  came  about  the  night  they  saw 
"Friendly  Persuasion."  Wendell  remarked 
that  his  old  friend,  Gary  Cooper,  had 
turned  in  an  award- winning  job.  To  his 
astonishment,  Robin  looked  blank  and 
asked,  "Which  was  he,  Daddy?"  The  dum- 
founded  Corey  saw  that,  if  the  younger 
generation  were  forgetting  Coop,  they'd 
naturally  lose  track  of  him,  too.  So,  when 
a  chance  came  up  to  appear  with  Presley 
in  "Loving  You,"  Wendell  grabbed  it.  He 
hasn't  regretted  it,  either.  "It  taught  me 
not  to  judge  these  kids  beforehand.  Elvis 
turned  out  to  be  a  simple,  polite,  and 
friendly  lad.  Not  at  all  flashy.  Nothing 
phony.  He's  a  gentleman  and  I've  had  him 
to  my  home  several  times." 

The  reporter  stops.  Elvis'  eyes  are  shin- 
ing. "He's  my  friend,"  he  says.  "What  else 
would  he  say?"  He  gets  up  and  paces 
about.  "I'm  glad  and  proud  he  likes  me. 
I've  made  some  good  friends  here.  Wendell 
Corey,  Nick  Adams,  Bob  Mitchum  .  .  . 
some  others,  too."  His  voice  quickens. 
"But  I'm  on  the  road  so  much.  And,  when 
I'm  in  town,  I'm  busy  rehearsing,  studying, 
cutting  records  .  .  .  it's  hard  to  make 
friends  at  that  rate." 

Is  Elvis  trying  to  do  too  much  at  one 
time?  It's  a  touchy  question,  but  Elvis 
has  a  ready  answer.  "I  might  be  going 
into  service  soon,"  he  says  simply,  "and  I 
hear  some  of  the  boys  who  went  in  were 
just  plain  forgotten  by  the  time  they  got 
out.  They  had  to  start  from  scratch  again. 
I  figure  the  more  I  do  now,  the  harder  it 
might  be  to  forget  me.  Then  there's  that 
saying  about  making  hay  while  the  sun 
shines."  He  calls  over  to  one  of  the  boys, 
"Say,  Carol,  do  you  have  that  letter  from 
the  kid  out  in  Kansas?" 

"Kansas  City,  Missouri,"  Carol  corrects. 
He  goes  to  a  cabinet  and  fumbles  around 
inside  until  he  finds  the  right  letter.  He 


hands  it  to  the  reporter,  who  reads:  "Dear- 
est Elvi-poo,  That's  my  special  nickname 
for  you.  .  ."  She  glances  up,  amused,  and 
Elvis  says  ruefully,  "Okay,  give  me  the 
business  .  .  .  but  don't  make  the  kid  sound 
silly.  She's  only  twelve."  The  reporter 
reads  on,  "I  just  got  through  playing  'All 
Shook  Up'  for  the  fifty-first  time,  and 
honest,  I  couldn't  go  to  sleep  till  I  wrote 
you  thanks.  Please  make  lots  more  'cause 
it  says  in  the  papers  they  are  going  to 
make  you  a  soldier.  And  my  Daddy  says 
we're  going  to  lose  you  for  a  few  years. 
I  don't  think  Daddy  likes  me  to  like  you, 
'cause  I'm  only  twelve  and  the  whole 
country  is  going  nuts — but  1  won't,  if  he 
has  anything  to  say.  Which  he  does.  So 
please,  dearest  Elvi-poo,  please  sing  and 
make  lots  of  movies  so  I  won't  miss  you 
so  much  when  you  go  away.  .  .  ." 

Ihe  phone  has  begun  to  ring,  and  Elvis 
beats  Gene  to  it.  "It's  Colonel  Parker,"  he 
says.  And,  while  he  talks,  the  reporter 
turns  her  attention  to  the  publicity  man. 
"A  couple  of  magazines  have  claimed  his 
fan  clubs  are  falling  off,"  she  says. 

"Right  in  that  clip  of  papers,  you'll  find 
some  statistics,"  he  answers,  "and  it  proves 
his  clubs  are  growing,  if  anything."  Search- 
ing the  papers,  she  finds  reference  to  a 
recent  poll  taken  by  the  Los  Angeles 
Junior  Press  Club.  It  offered  prizes  for  the 
best  letters  on  Presley,  pro  and  con.  Sug- 
gested subjects  were:  Is  he  a  lewd  fellow 
who  leads  the  youth  into  hysteria  and 
sin?  Or  is  he,  as  Senator  Kefauver  put 
it,  "Just  a  nice  young  lad  from  Tennessee"? 
Eighty-seven  percent  said  Elvis  was  tops. 

The  winning  letter  was  written  by  a 
Pauline  Garret  of  Banning,  California, 
and  argues  that:  "The  people  who  hate  him 
most  usually  never  met  him  or  saw  him 
perform.  They  base  their  opinions  on 
hearsay.  .  .  ." 

"But,"  asks  the  reporter,  "what  about 
these  kids  who  read  about  you  bringing 
Yvonne  Lime  or  Natalie  Wood  to  meet 
your  parents  .  .  .  and  who  then  sit  down 
and  have  a  good  cry?" 

Elvis  looks  at  her,  obviously  baffled. 
"Look,  I'm  a  normal  guy.  At  my  age,  it's 
only  normal  to  want  to  date  a  girl  once 
in  a  while.  Other  entertainers  do  it,  and 
nobody  gets  crabby.  Why  pick  on  me?  I've 
had  lots  of  fellows  down  to  meet  my  folks 
in  Memphis.  Why  not  a  girl?  Anyway, 
they're  always  chaperoned  by  their  moth- 
ers. What's  the  big  deal?" 

"Maybe  that  reaction  of  the  kids  is 
another  proof  that,  far  from  having  slipped, 
you're  moving  full  steam  ahead,"  suggests 
the  reporter,  rising  to  leave.  "My  neighbor 
has  a  boy — oh,  about  nine — and,  the  other 
night,  some  friends  were  over  and  one  of 
them  asked  the  boy  what  he'd  like  to  be 
when  he  grew  up.  'I'd  like  to  be  famous,' 
he  said.  'You  mean  like  Eisenhower  or 
Einstein?'  But  the  boy  said,  'I  mean  like 
Elvis  Presley.'  His  mother  chimed  in  with 
a  loud  'Amen!'  The  friend  stared  at  her 
and  asked,  'You  honestly  mean  that?'  And 
the  mother  said,  'If  my  boy  grows  up  as 
decent  and  successful  a  young  man  as 
Elvis,   I'll  be   happy.'" 

A  sudden  and  strange  emotion  crosses 
Elvis'  face.  One  hand  on  the  doorknob,  he 
stands  deep  in  thought.  "That's  a  big  re- 
sponsibility, isn't  it?"  he  finally  says,  as  if 
to  himself.  "Ma'am,"  he  raises  his  head,  "a 
year  ago,  I'd  probably  have  said  some- 
thing like  'I'm  all  shook  up.'  It's  different 
now.  I  can't  think  up  anything  smart  to 
say.  Tell  that  lady  and  her  boy  thanks  for 
the  compliment.  Say  I  .  .  .  say  I  hope  he'll 
grow  up   a  better  man  than  me." 

At  that  moment,  he  looks  quite  mature. 
He  smiles  wistfully,  passes  a  hand  over 
the  crew  cut  wig,  and  walks  slowly  down 
the  stairs  to  meet  the  challenge  of  an- 
other day.  .  .  . 


He's  Walkin  on  Air 


(Continued  from  page  28) 
many  minutes — "it  seemed  like  an  hour, 
but  I  guess  it  was  about  fifteen  minutes  .  .  . 
or  maybe  thirteen" — the  standard  shriek 
of  the  young  in  heart  and  the  powerful 
of  lung  made  it  impossible  for  the  per- 
formance to  begin.  "And  ...  ah,  the  first 
fifteen  rows  in  the  auditorium  were  filled 
with  girls  .  .  .  they  were  just  great.  .  .  ." 

Two  shows  were  scheduled  consecu- 
tively, with  an  intermission  between,  so 
as  to  give  the  entire  student  body  the 
experience  of  seeing  the  Nelson — Four 
Preps  program.  Between  shows,  the  enter- 
tainers were  "secluded"  in  the  basement 
of  the  school,  a  fact  instantly  discerned 
by  fans  who  found  ways  of  opening  the 
windows — fortuitously  placed  so  that  one 
could  lie  on  the  grass  and  peer  down 
into  the  concrete  fortress — to  continue  to 
halloa  at  their  guests. 

At  the  end  of  the  show,  only  the  aid  of 
several  of  the  school's  football  heroes 
made  it  possible  for  the  boys  to  get  into 
their  car  and  retreat.  "I  guess  I'll  never 
forget  it,"  says  Ricky,  wagging  his  sincere 
head.    "They  were  so  great." 

His  next  appearances  before  live  audi- 
ences will  take  place  at  about  the  time 
you  are  reading  this.  Ricky  and  the  Four 
Preps  are  scheduled  to  entertain  at  the 
Indiana  State  Fair,  and  at  the  Iowa  State 
Fair.  "At  the  Indiana  State  Fair,  we  fol- 
low George  Gobel,"  Ricky  says,  his  in- 
credulity keeping  stride  with  a  carefully 
controlled  delight. 

Incidentally,  the  guitar  he  will  use  will 
be  his  own,  and  thereby  hangs  a  tale. 
Ricky's  birthday  is  May  8.  On  or  about 
March  1,  he  started  a  subtle  campaign. 
At  table,  or  in  the  midst  of  some  such 
family  gathering,  he  would  drop  some 
such  remark  as,  "There's  really  a  swell 
collection  of  guitars  at  the  Music  Center — 
and  priced  right,  too."  Or,  "I  happened 
to  be  passing  that  music  store  on  Holly- 
wood Boulevard  the  other  day  and  saw  a 
real. neat  guitar.  I  stopped  in  for  a  minute 
.  .  .  the  guitar  has  a  good  tone  ...  I  might 
save  some  dough  and  invest  .  .  .  some 
time.  .  .  ." 

The  family  appeared  as  impervious  to 
these  delicate  arrows  as  a  coat  of  mail 
would  be  to  a  mosquito  bite. 

A  few  days  before  RN  Day — May  8,  that 
is — Ozzie  said  with  a  straight  face,  "We're 
in  a  quandary  about  what  to  get  you  for 
your  birthday.  Your  mother  has  a  package 
or  two  put  away,  and  I've  been  thinking 
that  it  was  high  time  you  had  a  suit  tail- 
ored, but  what  would  you  like  as  a  major 
gift?" 

Ricky  swallowed  hard,  shaking  his  head. 
Adults!  "Well  .  .  .  I've  been  wanting  a 
pair  of  white  bucks  .  .  .  with  red  rubber 
soles  and  then — of  course,  if  it's  too  ex- 
pensive, that's  something  else  again — but 
there's  a  guitar  at  the  Music  Center.  .  .  ." 

Struggling  to  maintain  composure,  Ozzie 
said  casually,  "I'm  going  to  be  pretty 
busy,  so  I  was  thinking  that  if  you'd  like 
to  pick  it  up  yourself  .  .  ." 

Ricky  looked  as  though  he'd  swallowed 
a  300-watt  light  bulb  with  the  current  on. 
But  all  he  said  was,  "Okay.   I  don't  mind." 

The  first  thing  he  did,  in  order  to  place 
the  stamp  of  his  own  personality  upon  the 
instrument,  was  to  remove  the  E  and  A 
bass  strings — "because  I  have  my  own 
system  of  chording,  and  I  don't  need  those 
extra  strings.  They  just  get  in  my  way. 
Four  strings  are  plenty." 

The  fruits  of  fame  are  swift  and  sweet. 
Ricky  and  a  pair  of  friends  were  idling 
down  Sunset  Boulevard  one  afternoon 
when  another  car  pulled  up  beside  them 
to  wait  for  the  signal  to  change.  In  a  rou- 
tine manner,  Ricky's  companions  glanced 


over  to  check  the  possible  presence  of 
blond  beauty,  and  promptly  uttered  a 
tribal  cry. 

Two  of  the  men  in  the  adjacent  car  were 
members  of  the  Jordanaires,  the  instru- 
mental-singing group  that  backs  Elvis 
Presley — and  the  third  passenger  was 
Presley  himself.  The  two  lads  in  Ricky's 
car  knew  the  two  Jordanaires,  so  intro- 
ductions were  exchanged.  The  conversa- 
tion continued  at  two  additional  stop 
lights.  Then — Los  Angeles  traffic  being 
what  it  is — four  trucks,  a  bus,  and  four- 
teen  bantam   cars    ended   the    conference. 

However,  two  days  later,  Ricky  "hap- 
pened" to  be  driving  past  the  Knicker- 
bocker Hotel — half  a  block  north  of  Holly- 
wood Boulevard,  and  not  too  far  out  of 
the  way  of  anyone  en  route  to  General 
Service  Studios,  where  The  New  Adven- 
tures Of  Ozzie  And  Harriet  is  filmed — and 
spotted  the  gyrating  guitarist  walking 
along  the  street.  "There  he  was,  just  sort 
of  looking  over  the  cars  parked  around 
the  hotel.  He's  interested  in  cars,  you 
know,"  Ricky  told  his  family  later.  "I 
stopped  to  talk  to  him.  He's  just  great." 

As  nearly  as  the  scene  could  be  recon- 
structed, it  would  have  made  a  good  inci- 
dent in  an  Ozzie  and  Harriet  adventure. 
Apparently,  Elvis  had  long  been  a  fan  of 
the  Nelsons;  he  vouchsafed  the  informa- 
tion that  he  had  watched  the  TV  show 
weekly  during  his  high-school  days.  In 
Presley's  opinion,  it  would  seem,  Ricky 
Nelson  was  a  revered  veteran  of  show 
business,  and  a  man  well  acquainted  with 
the  mysterious  world  of  the  sound  stage. 
He  plied  Ricky  with  questions  about  the 
technical  problems  of  movie-making.  Why 
was  this  done?  How  much  different  was 
a  filmed  TV  series  from  a  wide-screen 
film? 

As  for  Ricky,  he  was  fairly  breathless 
over  talking  to  the  foremost  song  stylist 
of  this  era.  He  kept  thinking  of  things 
he  would  like  to  ask,  but  the  words  stuck 
to  the  roof  of  his  mouth  like  a  peanut 
butter  sandwich.  Afterward,  Ricky  told  a 
friend,  "I  got  to  see  Elvis'  gold  jacket. 
No,  he  didn't  exactly  show  it  to  me.  See, 
these  friends  of  mine  and  I  were  up  in 
the  Jordanaires'  rooms  and  the  cleaning 
had  just  come  back  from  valet  service  .  .  . 
well,  El  vis's  gold  jacket  was  there  on  a 
hanger,  so  I  got  to  see  it." 

Of  such  experiences  are  glistening 
memories  made. 

W  hen  Ricky  is  asked  precisely  why  he 
is  a  Presley  fan,  he  says  simply,  "Because 
he  is  exciting  to  watch.  Because  he  is 
different."  In  explanation — and  in  mag- 
nanimous dismissal  of  the  adult  outcry 
against  the  Presley  manner  of  delivering 
the  beat  that  heats — Ricky  says  good- 
naturedly,  "Anything  new  is  likely  to  get 
a  certain  amount  of  adult  disapproval. 
But  then — "  shrug  " — teenagers  actually 
don't  like  the  same  things  adults  do. 
Adults   have   a   different   viewpoint.   .   .   ." 

Celebrities  in  general  are  no  novelty  to 
Ricky.  For  all  of  his  seventeen  years,  he 
has  been  exposed  to  the  crowned  heads 
and  the  eggheads  of  show  business.  Yet 
the  great  names  tossed  off  by  one's  parents 
have  no  more  meaning  to  a  youngster 
growing  up  than  the  names  of  his  uncles 
or  aunts.  Adults  are  people  to  whom  one 
is  courteous,  whether  they  are  in  the 
hardware  business  or  taking  bows  at  the 
Palace.  It  is  the  prominent  personalities 
of  one's  own  generation  who  are  re- 
splendent.    .> 

By  the  same  token,  the  fame  of  one's 
family  is  easy  to  take  in  stride,  but  a  real 
charge  awaits  an  ambitious  youngster  who 
is  able  to  achieve  prominence  under  his 
own  power.    In  many  ways,  Ricky  is  the 


^  cewe  w& 


IN   MOMENTS  I 


SO   QUICKLY,  SO    EASILY 

qfamyim,  ho  c^ccfeuj 

WHEN   YOU    RINSE 
THE    MAGIC    OF 

TEMPORARY   COLOR 
INTO   YOUR   HAIR! 

Nestle  Colorinse,  in  mere  minutes,  trans- 
forms dull,  drab  hair  into  glamorous  new 
beauty  .  .  .  adds  sparkling  color-highlights 
and  lustrous  sheen!  Easy-to-use  Colorinse 
also  removes  dulling  shampoo  film,  makes 
hair  silkier,  easier  to  manage.  12  glorious 
colors  that  rinse  in,  shampoo  out!  29?,  50? 

NESTLE       COLORINSE 

Use  Nestle  Colortint  for  the  exciting 
glamour  of  rich,  intense,  all-over  color  — 
without  a  permanent  dye!  It  exquisitely  in- 
tensifies your  natural  hair  color — OR — adds 
the  thrilling  NEW  color  you've  dreamed  of. 
Colortint  also  blends  in  gray,  streaked  and 
faded  hair  to  youthful  new  beauty.  10 
Lanolin-rich  colors  —  that  last  through  3 
shampoos!  29<f,  50<f 
NESTLE      COLORTINT 


I 


79 


typical  younger  child.  Any  bridge-table 
psychiatrist  will  tell  you  that  the  dreams 
of  a  youngest  child  often  place  him  in  a 
race,  and  the  daydreams  of  that  child  give 
him  victory. 

One  of  Ricky's  first  enthusiasms  was 
racing  on  ice  skates.  Harriet  had  long 
enjoyed  skating  for  exercise  and  relaxa- 
tion, but  both  boys  quickly  became  adept 
on  the  frozen  footrails,  and  usually  won 
any    event   in   which   they   were   entered. 

The  next  exertion  to  claim  Ricky — body, 
soul,  and  racquet — was  tennis. .  Don  Budge 
had  often  been  a  dinner  guest  at  the  Nel- 
son table,  and  Ricky  had  seldom  missed 
a  match  in  which  Pancho  Gonzales  played, 
so  it  was  inevitable  that  he  should  begin 
to  ask  himself  how  it  might  feel,  one  day, 
to  be  invited  to  play  on  a  Davis  Cup  team. 
That  did  it.  For  several  years,  Ricky's 
every  spare  moment  was  spent  on  the 
tennis  court  and  the  sight  of  a  backhand 
superior  to  his  own  produced  an  advanced 
state  of  melancholy.  There  was  no  need 
for  gloom,  because  Ricky  managed  to  at- 
tain a  No.  5  California  rating  for  players 
under  sixteen  years  of  age. 

Tennis  expired  as  the  love  of  Ricky's  life 
as  soon  as  he  reached  legal  driving  age. 
("I  have  to  concentrate  on  one  thing  at 
a  time.  You  might  say  that  problem  is 
one  of  my  troubles.")  Joyously,  he  en- 
tered the  era  of  the  greasy  thumb.  He  is 
now  driving  a  blue  Plymouth  stock  car 
that  has  been  tampered  with  only  to  the 
extent  that  the  deck  has  been  shaved 
(i.e.,  all  chromium  has  been  removed,  the 
holes  left  by  removal  of  the  emblem  have 
been  filled  in,  the  deck  has  been  sand- 
blasted, primed,  and  repainted),  and  dual 
pipes  and  cutouts  have  been  added.  Two 
months  ago,  he  won  a  drag  race  supervised 
and  held  on  one  of  the  accredited  drag 
strips  near  Los  Angeles. 

He  had  begun  to  think  seriously  of 
operating  on  the  car's  motor  to  get  faster 
performance,  when  his  mental  hobby-cart 
shifted  gears.  In  place  of  a  steering  wheel 
in  his  hands,  his  free  hours  were  spent 
with  a  guitar  under  his  arm. 

Is  there  time  left  for  romance?  "Oh, 
I've  already  gone  steady  about  five  times, 
but  there  isn't  anybody  special  right  now. 
I  guess  I'm  too — ah — busy  and  all." 

His  favorite  type  of  girl?  "Mmm  .  .  . 
Marilyn  Monroe  .  .  .  that  type  isn't  bad 
at  all.  .  .  .  Jayne  Mansfield?  Mmmm — you 
might  say  that  I  like  a  girl  who's  pretty 
all  over." 

What  is  the  dating  deal?  "When  I  was 
a  kid,  I  used  to  have  a  specific  allowance, 
paid  every  week,  but  that  stopped  by  the 
time  I  was  twelve  years  old.  Nowadays, 
when  I  have  a  date,  I  speak  to  my  father. 
Five  bucks  will  take  two  people  to  a 
movie,  and  then  to  a  drive-in  for  a  ham- 
burger and  a  glass  of  milk.  I'm  not  as 
crazy  about  pizza  as  some  of  the  kids  are. 
I  like  to  dance,  but  there  isn't  a  place  for 
teenagers  to  dance  around  town;  we  have 
to  go  to  somebody's  house.  Sometimes  we 
just  listen  to  recordings.  Maybe  my  favor- 
ite recording  to  date  is  Fats  Domino's  'I'm 
in  the  Mood  for  Love.' " 

His  movie  favorites?  "Marlon  Brando 
and  James  Dean.  Especially  Jimmy  ...  if 
he  could  have  gone  on — he  had  a  lot  to 
say,  if  you  know  what  I  mean,  and  teen- 
agers understood  him  .  .  ." 

His  career  theories  at  this  time?  "I  don't 
like  to  analyze  entertainment  styles.  If  a 
style  is  really  good,  it  can't  be  analyzed, 
because  it  is  unique.  There  hasn't  been 
anything  like  it  before,  so  how  can  you 
say  'it's  made  up  of  this  and  this  and  this'? 
Put  all  the  ingredients  together  and  you 
still  won't  get  the  style,  because  the  style 
T    is  the  human  being. 

v        "I  don't  think  a  person  should  imitate. 
R    ...  I've  received  some  letters  from  teen- 
agers   who    caution    me:     'Don't    imitate 
Elvis,'  they  say.   Well,  I  don't  and  I  won't. 
oO 


A  performer  should  do  what  is  natural, 
what  he  feels.  He  should  express  himself 
to  the  best  of  his  ability.  Then,  if  he 
pleases  .  .  .  well,  he's  in. 

"I  guess  I'm  most  happy  about  my  rec- 
ords, because  they  show  that  I  can  do 
something  on  my  own.  That's  what  the 
average  kid  wants  to  do — something  on 
his  own.  .  .  ." 

Ricky  is  slightly  over  six  feet  tall;  his 
eyes  are  a  limpid  blue  and  his  hair  is 
heavy,  unruly,  and  brown.  A  casting 
director  would  note  on  his  file  card  that 
he  has  great  natural  charm.  He  also  has — 
and  this  has  not  yet  occurred  to  him — the 
perfect  actor's  face.  It  is  a  transparent 
film  over  his  emotions;  at  this  particular 
period  in  his  life,  he  has  not  yet  learned 


to  curtain  that  transparency. 

Uncertainty,  amusement,  mischief,  po- 
lite disbelief,  equally  polite  boredom,  en- 
thusiasm, embarrassment,  controlled  dis- 
agreement, equally  controlled  concurrence 
— all  can  be  expressed  by  an  eyebrow,  a 
shifting  shoulder,  a  slight  turn  of  a  hand, 
or  a  swift  change  of  facial  expression. 

Within  the  immediate  present,  Eric  Hil- 
liard  Nelson  is  almost  certain  to  succeed  as 
a  recording  artist.  But,  unless  all  signs 
fail,  his  future  belongs  to  Hollywood  and 
films,  because  this  lad  has  it:  The  magical, 
indefinable  touch  of  natural  talent.  The 
guitar  is  a  wonderful  new  treasure. 
Ricky's  real  gift  is  one  that  Ozzie  and 
Harriet  Nelson  gave  him  some  seventeen 
years  ago. 


1/ote 


FOR  YOUR  FAVORITES 


Each  year  TV  Radio  Mirror  polls  its  readers  for  their  favorite  programs 
and  performers.  This  year,  for  the  first  time,  the  polling  was  begun  in 
the  July  issue  and  continues  until  the  end  of  the  year.  Results  will  be 
tabulated  after  December  31,  and  award  winners  will  be  announced  in 
the  May  1958  issue.  So  vote  today.  Help  your  favorites  to  win  a  Gold  Medal. 


TV  STARS  and  PROGRAMS 

Male  Singer 

Female  Singer   

Comedian     

Comedienne     

Dramatic  Actor    

Dramatic  Actress    

Daytime  Emcee 

Evening   Emcee    

Musical   Emcee    

Quizmaster        

Western    Star    

News  Commentator   

Sportscaster     

Best  New  Star 

Daytime   Drama    

Evening    Drama     

Daytime  Variety   

Evening  Variety 

Comedy  Program   

Music  Program    

Quiz  Program    

Women's  Program    

Children's   Program    

Mystery   or   Adventure    

Western  Program    

TV  Panel  Show    

Best  Program  on  Air   

Best  New  Program   

TV  Husband-and-Wife  Team... 


RADIO  STARS  and  PROGRAMS 

Male-Singer 

Female  Singer 

Comedian     

Comedienne     

Dramatic  Actor    

Dramatic  Actress    .  .  . 

Daytime  Emcee 

Evening   Emcee    

Musical   Emcee    

Quizmaster    

Western    Star    

News  Commentator 

Sportscaster     

Best  New  Star 

Daytime   Drama    

Evening    Drama    

Daytime  Variety   

Evening   Variety    

Comedy  Program   

Music  Program    

Quiz  Program    

Women's  Program    

Children's   Program    

Mystery   or   Adventure    

Western  Program    

Radio  Record  Program   

Best  Program  on  Air   

Best  New  Program   


Send  your  votes  to  TV  Radio  Mirror  Awards,  P.O.  Box 
No.  1767,  Grand  Central  Station,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 


9-5 


Young  Man  in  a  Hurry 


(Continued  from  page  20) 
only  passed  up  the  opportunity  to  tour 
with  the  road  company  of  "The  Lark," 
with  Julie  Harris,  but  risked  being  fired 
as  Tallulah  Bankhead's  leading  man  on 
stage — which  is,  as  Jay  puts  it,  "a  chance 
of  a  lifetime  for  an  actor." 

Jay  is  a  slim,  on-the-darkish-side  six- 
footer  with  strong  features  and  blue-gray 
eyes.  He's  been  acting  on  both  coasts — TV, 
movies,  stage — since  leaving  the  Army, 
after  a  six-year  hitch.  Acting  in  radio  is 
his  newest  venture  in  the  field,  and  he 
feels  it's  one  of  the  most  challenging: 
"You've  got  to  portray  every  shade  of  a 
characterization  with  only  one  instrument 
— your  voice.  I'm  especially  fascinated  with 
the  role  of  Kurt  Bonine  because  there  are 
so  many  facets  to  his  personality." 

.Being  very  energetic,  with  a  tremendous 
capacity  for  hard  work,  Jay  continues 
acting  in  other  mediums  along  with  his 
radio  show.  On  television,  he  participated 
in  a  couple  of  important  TV  debuts  this 
season.  In  James  Cagney's  show,  "Soldier 
From  the  War  Returning,"  Jay  was  Cag- 
ney's commanding  officer.  And,  in  Ethel 
Merman's  "Honest  in  the  Rain,"  Jay 
enacted  the  happily  married  man  who 
was  trying  to  get  his  brother  married  to 
Miss  Merman.  Performing  in  the  Phil 
Silvers  Show  several  times,  Jay  was  re- 
cently seen  as  a  lieutenant  colonel — a  rank 
he   actually  holds  in  the  Army  Reserves. 

Ingenious  Jay  has  not  only  managed  to 
do  night-time  TV,  he  even  took  on  a 
Broadway  play — Tallulah  Bankhead's  "Eu- 
genia"— with  a  six-week  tryout  in  New- 
Haven,  Boston,  Philadelphia  and  Balti- 
more. Every  day,  he  commuted  from  the 
CBS  Manhattan  studio  to  whatever  town 
the  play  was  running. 

One  of  the  reasons  that  Jay  covers  so 
much  ground,  literally  as  well  as  figura- 
tively, is  that  he  goes  everywhere  via  motor 
scooters  and  motorbikes.  He  owns  two 
scooters  and  five  motorbikes — "so  that  I 
can  switch  parts  without  waiting  to  have 
them  repaired  and  keep  rolling."  And 
keep  rolling  on  them  he  does!  Jay  on  his 
scooter,  with  cap,  driving  glasses,  mitts 
and  bike  clips,  is  such  a  familiar  figure 
in  Manhattan's  snarled  traffic  lanes,  pull- 
ing in  or  out  at  the  radio  and  TV  stations, 
at  the  theaters  and  at  the  airports,  that 
most  New  York  columnists  have  told  the 
"Jay  scooter"  story,  at  one  time  or  an- 
other. 

He  took  to  scooters  several  seasons  back, 
while  making  movies  in  Hollywood:  "It 
took  so  long  to  get  to  one  studio  from 
another,  walking  or  taking  a  bus.  Taxis 
are  expensive,  and  it  seems  they're  never 
around  when  you  need  them  in  a  hurry. 
With  your  own  car,  you  spend  half  the 
time  trying  to  find  a  parking  space.  There's 
always  room  for  a  scooter." 

Jay  has  found  that  he  saves  at  least  two 
hours  a  day  going  the  scooter  way  and 
that  the  two-wheel  vehicles  are  depend- 
able. He's  had  only  one  close  call  of  al- 
most arriving  late  for  a  performance  be- 
cause of  scooter  trouble.  As  he  described 
it,  "After  a  TV  show,  I  had  twelve  min- 
utes to  scoot  to  the  Circle  in  the  Square 
(an  off-Broadway  theater)  for  a  perform- 
ance of  "The  Grass  Harp.'  It  was  the  night 
of  Hurricane  Carol.  A  passing  truck 
drenched  my  motorbike,  causing  a  short 
in  the  ignition.  There  I  was,  stranded,  still 
in  my  TV  costume  of  a  prison  uniform! 
The  first  cab  I  hailed  took  one  look  and 
sped  off  like  a  jackrabbit.  A  policeman 
gave  me  the  eye,  but  made  no  move  to 
pick  me  up.  I  finally  'commandeered'  an- 
other cab — and  made  the  entrance  with 
but  ten  seconds  to  spare." 


Jay  sticks  with  his  mode  of  transporta- 
tion regardless  of  winter  snow  and  sleet. 
When  "Eugenia"  opened  its  out-of-town 
pre-Broadway  run,  it  was  the  latter  part 
of  December.  "After  the  morning  Helen 
Trent  broadcast,  I'd  scoot  to  the  airport — 
I  get  there  in  twenty  minutes,  half  the 
time  it  takes  by  bus.  I'd  have  another 
scooter  waiting  for  me  at  the  airport  at 
the  other  end,  getting  me  to  the  theater 
in  time  for  rehearsal.  After  the  perform- 
ance, I'd  return  to  New  York." 

The  commuting  arrangement,  which 
had  been  agreed  upon  in  Jay's  "Eugenia" 
contract,  worked  out  smoothly  until  one 
day  Jay  arrived  for  rehearsal  one  hour 
late.  But  Jay's  scooter  wasn't  the  cause. 
His  scheduled  flight  to  Boston  was  can- 
celed because  it  was  New  Year's  Day,  and 
he  had  no  alternative  but  to  wait  for  a 
later  flight.  When  he  arrived  at  the 
theater,  Tallulah  became  aware  for  the 
first  time  that  Jay  left  for  New  York  each 
night. 

"I  thought  she  knew  it  all  along,"  Jay 
says,  "because  she  saw  me  leave  the 
theater  every  night  in  my  scooter  rigs. 
At  first,  I  thought  she  looked  at  me  in 
rather  an  absent-minded  manner  when 
I'd  say  goodnight.  I  found  out  the  reason 
several  nights  later,  when  she  happened 
to  see  me  as  I  was  about  to  put  on  my 
riding  cap  and  glasses.  Out  came  the 
famous  Tallulah  Bankhead  laugh.  She 
said,  'My  God — it's  been  youl  I  couldn't 
imagine  who  the  tall  man  with  the  glasses 
was  who  so  politely  bid  me  good  night.  It's 
you  behind  those  glasses.'  Then  she  ran 
out  to  see  me  take  off,  and  the  cast  told 
me  later  she  laughed  till  her  ribs  hurt." 

But  apparently  Tallulah  had  thought 
Jay  was  just  scooting  around  Boston,  for 
she  was  aghast  upon  learning  that  he  was 
risking  500  miles  of  traveling  daily  in  mid- 
winter weather  conditions.  "She  told  me 
nicely,  but  firmly,  that  I  either  drop  the 
Trent  show  or  she  would  be  forced  to  give 
me  two  weeks'  notice.  Later,  after  the  per- 
formance at  a  New  Year's  Eve  party  for 
the  cast,  she  took  me  aside  to  persuade 
me  to  decide  in  favor  of  her  show. 

"I  was  in  a  dilemma,"  Jay  admits.  "I 
left  the  party  and  took  a  long  walk  to 
think  things  out.  I  didn't  want  to  drop 
the  Trent  show.  The  writer  had  graciously 
written  me  out  on  theater  matinee  days, 
and  I  had  promised  I  would  continue  with 
the  role.  At  the  same  time,  I  knew  getting 
fired  from  the  Tallulah  cast  would  have 
repercussions.  It  would  be  difficult  to 
make  any  one  believe  that  I  wasn't  fired 
for  any  other  reason  than  incompetence. 
Finally,  I  decided  that,  regardless  of  the 
outcome,  there   as   only   one  thing  to   do. 

"The  next  day,  when  Tallulah  asked  me 
if  I  had  decided,  I  told  her  I  would  have 
to  continue  with  the  Trent  show  because 
I  had  given  my  word.  To  my  surprise — 
and  relief — she  looked  at  me  quietly  and 
said,  'I  understand  perfectly,  and  you're 
quite  right.  I  respect  you  for  your  stand, 
and  we'll  get  along  the  best  we  can.  But 
you  will  do  one  thing  for  me,  won't  you? 
Ask  them  for  me  to  please  write  you  out 
as  often  as  they  can  until  we  open  on 
Broadway.'  Unknown  to  me,  I  had  hit  a 
spot  that  I've  since  learned  is  very  im- 
portant to  her — loyalty.  She  herself  has 
never  gone  back  on  a  promise  or  her 
word  to  a  producer." 

The  play  didn't  run  long  on  Broadway, 
but  Jay  garnered  good  notices  and  feels 
the  experience  of  playing  with  the  great 
Bankhead  was  an  invaluable  one.  "What 
a  lesson  in  acting  she  can  give  everyone," 
he  says.  "She  feels  a  tremendous  responsi- 
bility to  the  audience  and  wants  everyone 


PERMANENT  DARKENER  &*-ta 
FOR  LASHES  AND  BROWS  :php£d 

•  NOT  AN  ANALINE  DYE! 

•  !  APPLICATION  LASTS  4  to  5  WEEKS! 

Tokes  just  seconds  to  apply . . .  stays  on  4  to 
5  weeksl  "Dark-Eyes"  is  the  perfect  way  to 
make  eyelashes  and  brows  completely  natural 
looking.,  .and  it  will  not  harden  or  break 
them  I  "Dark-Eyes"  is  NOT  A  MASCARAI 
Will  jot   stick   to  eyelash   curler.    Eliminates 

the    bother    of    daily    eye    make-up. 

It  is  PERMANENT,  SWIMPROOF, 

SMUDGEPROOF,  TEARPROOF,  and 

SMEARPROOFI 

$1.25  (plus  tax)  at  leading  drug, 
dept.  and  variety  chain  stores. 


SEND  TODAY 

for 

TRIAL  SIZt 

NO  DELAY— 
your  trial  order 
shipped  in  24 
hours!  „ 

"DARK-EYES"  COMPANY,  Dept.  P-97 
3319  W.  Carroll  Ave.,  Chicago  24,  III. 

I   enclose  25c  (coin  or  stamps— tax  included)  for 
TRIAL  SIZE  pkg.  of  "Dark-Eyes"  with  directions. 

check  shade:  □  Light  Brown  □  Brown  □  Black 

Name 


Address_ 
: 
I      Town 


-State- 


1250  Movie  &  m   1250  ages  & 
TV  Pictures  W  birtho/Stars 

Send  25^  for  everything  to 
LUCKY  STARS  G.  P.  O.  Box  738  N.  Y.  1,  NY  DtpL507 


Hteh  School  Course 

at  Home 


Many  Finish  in  2  Years 

If  you  did  not  or  cannot  finish  high  school,  here  is 
your  opportunity.  Study  in  spare  time  at  home.  Go 
as  rapidly  as  your  time  and  abilities  permit.  Course 
equivalent  to  residential  school — prepares  for  college 
exams.  Standard  texts  supplied.  Credit  for  subjects 
already  completed.  Single  subjects  if  desired.  Di- 
ploma awarded.  Be  a  High  School  graduate.  Start 
studies  now.  Free  Bulletin.  Send  coupon. 

OUR  60TH   YEAR ] 

AMERICAN  SCHOOL,  Dept.  H-653 
Drexel  at  58th  St.,  Chicago  37,  III. 

Without  obligation,  please  send  FREE  descriptive  I 
booklet. 

Name I 


I 


AT  IAST!  YOUR  CHANCE  FOR  SUCCESS 


BE  A  PRACTICAL  NURSE 


k  v      No  High  School  Necessary;  No  Age  Limit 

"■^^Send  for  sample  lesson  and  nurse's  booklet. 
It's  FREE  ,  ,  .  no  obligation.  Just  mail  coupon, 
See  for  yourself  how  easy  it  is  to  get  BIG  PAY  .  . , 
gain  social  prestige  and  financial  independence  as 
a  POST  GRADUATE  HOSPITAL  trained  PRACTICAL  NURSE. 
Learn  at  home  while  you  earn.  Don't  delay. 
Send  coupon  NOW) 

•  POST  GRADUATE  HOSPITAL  SCHOOL  OF  NURSING      * 

•  9C97   Auditorium   Bldg.  Chicago  5,  III.* 

•  NAME • 

•  ADDRESS— J 

•  CITY STATE • 


T 
V 
R 

81 


T 

V 
R 

82 


M 


OTHERS  MIEND 


Fi 


At  Drug  Stores  Everywhere. 

THE  S.S.S.  COMPANY,  ATLANTA,  GA. 


'For  Quick  Relief 
Ask  your  Druggist  for 


TOOTH  GUM 
TOOTH  DROPS 
LOTIOH-JEl 


'How 


MAKE  MONEY  with1 
■Simple  CARTOONS 


A  book  everyone  who  likes  to  draw 
should  have.  It  is  free;  no 
obligation.  Simply  address 


FREE 
BOOK 


rARTOONISTS" 
'  Dept.  599, 


EXCHANGE 
Pleasant  Hill,  Ohio 


WALLET  Size  2Vi  I  3Vj  on 
PORTRAIT  QUALITY  PAPER 
Just  pennies  per  picture  for 
beautiful  portrait-quality 
reproductions  of  your  own  favorite 
photograph.  Send  one  portrait  or 
snapshot  (returned  unharmed) 
And  money  to: 
WALLET  PHOTOS,  BOI  M-17 
Hillside,  N.J. 


In  a  hurry?  Send  25c  extra 
for  Super-Speed  service. 


MONEY  BACK  GUARANTEE 


We  pay  postage! 


PSORIASIS 

(GCALV    SKIN    TROUBLE) 


SPOTt 


KDCRITIOIL 


TRY  IT  YOURSELF  no 

matter  how  long  you  have 

suffered.  Write  for  FREE 

book  on  Psoriasis  and 

DERMOIL.Send  10c 

for  trial  bottle  to  make 

our  "One  Spot  Test". 


Setu/ffvr 

.GENEROUS 

TRIAL 


Don't  be  embarrassed 
with  Psoriasis,  the  ugly, 
scaly  skin  disease.  TRY 
dermoil.  Amazing  re- 
sults reported  by  many 
grateful  users  for  24 
years.  With  DERMOIL  It 
is  possible  that  ugly  scaly  patches 
on  body  or  scalp  may  be  gradually  removed  and  the  an- 
noying itching  relieved,  while  the  skin  becomes  pliable 
and  soft  as  the  redness  is  reduced.  Many  doctors  use  the 
non-staining  Dermoil  formula.  Must  give  definite  benefit 
or  money  back.  Sold  by  leading  Drug  stores. 
Write  today  LAKE  LABORATORIES,  Dept.  3504 
Box  3925,  St  rath  mo  or  Station,  Detroit  2  7,  Mich. 


to  give  their  best.  When  she's  offstage,  she 
always  listens  to  the  others  on  stage  and, 
when  they  come  off,  she  has  helpful  com- 
ments to  make." 

Jay  found  that,  off  stage,  Tallulah  is  as 
magnetic  as  on  stage — witty,  full  of  fun 
and  amusing.  The  first  night  the  cast  ar- 
rived in  Boston,  a  line  rehearsal  was  held 
in  her  hotel  suite  and  Tallulah  called 
room-service  for  refreshments.  The  serv- 
ice man  at  the  other  end  was  apparently 
trying  to  find  out  where  to  deliver  the 
order.  'Room  number?'  exclaimed  Tallu- 
lah in  the  phone.  'I  have  no  idea.  Just  go 
up  and  down  the  hallways,  you'll  hear  me 
laughing.' " 

Jay  feels  that  until  an  actor  is  a  star, 
he  should,  within  reason,  take  every  role 
that  comes  his  way.  "For  me,  it  seems  that 
roles  come  in  numbers,  or  else  it'll  be 
very  quiet.  I  feel  I've  got  to  make  the 
most  of  those  fertile  periods." 

sometimes  that  means  going  at  a  pace 
which  borders  on  the  "too  much"  side, 
even  for  inexhaustible  Jay,  and  once  he 
almost  faltered  in  his  belief. 

He  experienced  the  most  hectic  week  of 
his  career  two  seasons  ago,  when  he  was 
playing  the  running  role  of  the  district 
attorney  on  the  TV  daytime-drama  series, 
First  Love,  and  was  cast  in  the  Broadway 
play,  "The  Young  and  Beautiful,"  as 
actress  Lois  Smith's  father.  Every  day,  he 
performed  in  an  off-Broadway  play,  per- 
formed on  TV  and  rehearsed  in  another 
TV  and  another  off-Broadway  play.  In  the 
morning,  he  rehearsed  a  Robert  Mont- 
gomery show.  That  afternoon,  he  re- 
hearsed and  performed  in  TV's  First  Love, 
then  went  on  to  the  "Young  and  Beauti- 
ful" rehearsal.  He  started  off  the  evening 
with  a  performance  in  Kafka's  "The  Trial," 
at  the  Provincetown  Playhouse,  and  ended 
it  with  rehearsal  of  another  off-Broadway 
venture,  "Spring's  Awakening." 

"Nothing  has  compared  to  that  week," 
he  sighs  thankfully.  "I  thought  I  had  an- 
other week  of  too  many  doings  recently, 
when — in  addition  to  the  Trent  show — I 
was  on  the  NBC  True  Confession  series, 
did  a  Voice  of  America  broadcast  of  the 
play  'Our  Town,'  performed  in  scenes 
for  an  American  Theater  Wing  demonstra- 
tion, and  gave  a  lecture  before  a  speech 
association.  Oh,  yes — I  finished  my  role  in 
a  movie  for  the  medical  profession  that 
week,  too.  Well,  as  I  said,  I  thought  that 
was  a  lot.  But  at  least  it  was  spread  out 
through  the  week,  not  every  day." 

Jay  has  found  that,  even  when  he  has 
wondered  about  the  wisdom  of  some  of 
his  undertakings,  quite  often  he  has  been 
pleasantly  surprised  at  the  results.  One 
example  is  the  Broadway  play  of  several 
seasons  ago,  "The  Immoralist,"  in  which 
Jay  half-heartedly  agreed  to  be  the  un- 
derstudy to  the  star,  Louis  Jourdan.  By 
the  last  few  days  of  the  show's  run,  Jay 
was  sure  he  had  taken  on  a  thankless  job. 
But  it  turned  out  that  Jourdan  couldn't 
play  the  last  two  performances  and  Jay 
stepped  into  the  role.  "Critics  didn't  get 
to  see  me,"  he  remembers,  "but  the  word 
got  around  that  I  did  a  good  job,  and 
rumors  of  that  kind  help." 

A  critic  once  said  of  Jay,  "He  hasn't  a 
bad  performance  in  him."  In  reply  to  this, 
Jay  says,  "I  think  critics  and  audiences 
are  better  judges  of  that  than  I  can  be. 
But  I  do  believe  firmly  in  trying  to  do 
my  best,  whether  it's  in  the  classroom,  a 
hardly  noticeable  part  or  something  big. 
That's  the  only  way  you  can  develop  in 
becoming  a  good  actor— by  working  hard 
at  every  role  you  take.  And,  frequently, 
that  role  will  lead  to  another." 

Jay's  role  in  The  Romance  Of  Helen 
Trent  stems  from  the  work  he  did  in  a 
radio  acting  class,  in  which  one  of  the 
directors    was    Ernie    Ricca,    director    of 


Helen  Trent.  Jay,  who  hasn't  stopped 
studying  acting  in  some  group  or  other 
since  his  summer-theater  apprentice  days, 
enrolled  in  the  class  with  his  last  fifty- 
four  dollars  on  the  G.I.  bill. 

"I  had  done  very  little  radio  work,"  he 
points  out,  "and  felt  inadequate  in  the 
medium.  But  I  worked  hard  in  the  class 
and  apparently  Ernie  liked  my  work — for, 
when  the  Kurt  Bonine  role  came  up,  he 
recommended  me  as  one  of  the  possibili- 
ties. Of  course,  I  didn't  get  the  part  with- 
out competing  in  numerous  readings  with 
many  others.  But  the  point  is  that  I  prob- 
ably wouldn't  have  had  a  chance  in  the 
running,  if  Ernie  hadn't  been  familiar 
with  my  work."  It  was  the  same  thing 
with  "Eugenia."  Herb  Machiz,  the  director, 
had  worked  with  Jay  in  an  off-Broadway 
production  of  "Death  of  Odysseus."  The 
production  ran  only  several  nights,  but 
Machiz  remembered  Jay's  work  as  Odys- 
seus, to  the  extent  that  he  suggested  the 
actor  for  the  Bankhead  play.  "For  'Eu- 
genia,' "  Jay  recalls,  "I  went  through  a 
grueling  screening  before  I  got  the  part. 
But,  again,  I  probably  wouldn't  have  had 
a  chance  to  get  anywhere  near  a  tryout 
if  someone  with  the  show  hadn't  known 
my  work." 

In  another  "good  break,"  Jay  got  the 
role  without  trying  for  it — the  part  of 
Dr.  Kramer  in  the  movie,  "The  Shrike," 
starring  Jose  Ferrer  and  June  Allyson. 
Jay,  who  had  played  in  Ferrer's  produc- 
tion of  "Richard  III"  at  City  Center,  ran 
into  Ferrer  on  a  Hollywood  street — Jay  on 
his  scooter,  of  course,  Ferrer  in  a  car. 

"Just  finished  doing  'Battle  Taxi,' "  Jay 
replied  to  Ferrer's  question.  "Hear  you're 
here  for  'The  Shrike.'  Keep  me  in  mind, 
eh?"  Ferrer  did.  A  couple  of  weeks  later, 
Jay — who  was  back  in  New  York — re- 
ceived a  wire  from  his  Hollywood  agent 
saying,  "Take  plane  right  away.  Ferrer 
wants  you  for  'Shrike.' " 

Although  Jay  feels  very  strongly  about 
the  importance  of  working  hard  at  acting, 
he  doesn't  think  that  factor  alone  is  suf- 
ficient until  an  actor  has  become  a  star. 
He  feels  it  is  equally  important  for  an 
actor  to  be  promoted  properly:  "I  know 
a  lot  of  good  actors,  really  very  talented, 
who  don't  get  all  the  roles  they  should. 
On  the  other  hand,  sometimes  a  not  very 
talented  actor  gets  to  the  top  because  of 
a   skillful  promotion-publicity  job." 

Jay  does  his  own  promoting  and  han- 
dles it  as  competently  as  a  professional 
publicist.  To  producers,  directors  and 
newspapers,  he  sends  printed  cards,  re- 
view pages,  news  releases  and  quips.  "I 
don't  overdo  it,"  he  smiles,  "but  I  think 
this  part  of  my  working  hard  at  being  an 
actor  is  very  important.  When  I  did  the 
publicity  for  our  R.O.T.C.  military  ball  at 
the  University  of  Chicago,  I  learned  you've 
got  to  tell  people  about  a  coming  event 
if  you  want  them  to  attend.  In  acting, 
this  is  doubly  true.  Producers  and  di- 
rectors are  very  busy  people.  It's  not 
enough  to  do  a  good  job — you've  got  to 
let  them   know   you're   doing  it." 

Jay  learned  to  be  realistic,  resourceful 
and  a  hard  worker  in  his  childhood.  "We 
were  poor  by  choice.  My  father  worked  in 
his  father's  furniture  business  in  Elgin, 
Illinois,  until  I  was  four.  Then  Dad  de- 
cided he  didn't  want  to  stay  in  the  busi- 
ness— he  wanted  to  travel  around  the 
country.  My  mother  agreed  that  it  sounded 
like  a  good  idea.  So  we  got  into  Dad's 
model-T  Ford  and  traveled  until  I  was 
twelve. 

"When  we'd  find  a  place  we  liked,"  Jay 
remembers,  "we'd  stay  put  for  a  while, 
Dad  taking  on  a  milk  or  laundry  route. 
For  a  long  time,  we  followed  state  fairs 
and  carnivals,  where  Dad  would  run  a 
popcorn  stand  and  I  sold  balloons.  Other 


times,  we  followed  the  crops  and  worked 
in  the  fields.  By  the  time  we  returned  to 
home  grounds,  settling  in  Maywopd,  Illi- 
nois, where  Dad  opened  a  candy  store, 
I  had  been  in  every  state  with  the  excep- 
tion of  Maine  and  South  Dakota.  And  I 
had   attended   eighteen   different   schools." 

While  on  the  road,  Jay  began  helping 
his  father  at  the  various  odd  jobs  at  the 
age  of  six.  In  Maywood,  he  continued  to 
be  his  Dad's  helper  in  the  candy  store 
(which  later  grew  into  a  number  of 
stores)  through  the  rest  of  his  grade- 
school  years  and  through  high  school  and 
college.  In  addition,  Jay  ran  a  parking  lot 
during  high  school  and  was  busy  in  extra- 
curricular activities — debating  teams,  year- 
book, school  paper,  and  dramatics:  "I 
tried  out  for  the  junior  class  play  because 
I  was  interested  in  the  girl  who  was  play- 
ing the  lead.  I  got  a  character  part.  She 
fell  for  the  leading  man.  I  didn't  get  her 
— but  I  got  the  acting  bug." 

Upon  high-school  graduation,  Jay  won 
a  scholarship  to  the  University  of  Chi- 
cago, where  he  got  his  B.S.  degree  in 
political  science  in  three  years'  time.  Dur- 
ing this  period,  he  was  captain  of  the 
debate  team  and  drum-major  of  the  band, 
won  the  mile  run  and  a  medal  for  being 
"the  outstanding  R.O.T.C.  cadet  of  the 
year" — and  played  the  clarinet — but  was 
finding  out  more  and  more  that  what  he 
was  enjoying  most  was  acting  in  plays. 
Thus,  the  summer  before  college  gradua- 
tion, he  joined  the  apprentice  group  of 
the  Berkshire  Playhouse  in  Stockbridge, 
Massachusetts,  returned  to  it  the  summer 
after  graduation  and  then  stayed  in  the 
East  to  study  acting. 

He     was     studying     with     well-known 


theater  director  Bobby  Lewis  when  World 
War  II  broke.  Holding  a  second  lieu- 
tenant's rank  with  the  O.R.C.,  Jay  was 
transferred  to  the  Signal  Corps  and  was 
assigned  to  the  photographic  center  in 
Long  Island  City.  Jay  is  proud  of  the  fact 
that,  during  the  six  years  he  spent  at  the 
Army  center,  he  produced  or  directed  one 
hundred  and  eleven  training  films,  one  of 
which  has  won  an  international  award. 
He  started  out  as  an  assistant  director  and 
rose  to  executive  producer,  with  the  rank 
of  lieutenant  colonel. 

Jay  has  maintained  his  interest  in  film 
making  since  leaving  active  service.  Now 
with  the  Reserves,  he  teaches  a  film  pro- 
jectionist course  for  servicemen  each  week 
at  the  U.S.A.R.  School  in  Manhattan.  He 
also  has  his  own  company,  Jaybar  Films, 
Inc.,  and  produced  a  documentary  for  the 
New  York  State  Civil  Defense  Commission 
which  is  also  in  official  use  in  other 
states. 

For  recreation,  Jay  likes  best  to  read — 
he  averages  three  books  a  week,  mostly 
biographies — and  to  go  to  the  theater  and 
movies,  with  an  actress  for  his  date  com- 
panion. "I  prefer  actresses  because — let's 
face  it — I'm  absorbed  in  this  acting  busi- 
ness and  I  like  to  share  the  plays  and 
movies  with  someone  who  can  discuss 
them  from  a  professional  viewpoint.  Be- 
sides, actresses  are  very  fascinating  wo- 
men," say  Jay. 

With  all  this,  Jay  insists  he  has  no 
"hobbies" — adding,  logically  enough,  "I 
don't  have  time  for  any."  But  what  would 
the  average  man,  not  so  much  in  a  hurry, 
call  two  scooters,  five  motorbikes,  a  half- 
dozen  simultaneous  careers — and  dates 
with  fascinating  women? 


Interview  Subject:  Mike  Wallace 


(Continued  from  page  27) 
shot  a  criminal — and  even  believed  that 
shooting  a  criminal  sometimes  saved  the 
trouble  of  going  into  a  trial.  A  foreign 
actress,  commenting  on  the  peculiar  atti- 
tude of  American  men  toward  European 
women,  told  of  a  Hollywood  producer  mak- 
ing passes  at  her.  An  ex-heavyweight 
champion  said  he  got  satisfaction  in  hitting 
someone  and  drawing  blo6d.  A  well-known 
radio  personality  noted  that  she  had  once 
considered  alleviating  her  loneliness  by 
having  a  baby  out  of  wedlock. 

When  Mike  Wallace  was  interviewing, 
the  unexpected  was  usually  expected.  Alone 
with  Mike,  a  guest  opened  up  and  talked 
from  the  heart.  But  when  ex-gangster 
Mickey  Cohen  got  on  the  show,  the  unex- 
pected was  truly  unexpected.  Mickey 
Cohen  blasted  several  Los  Angeles  officials 
by  name — and  the  officials  immediately 
threatened  suits  against  ABC  and  every- 
one else  concerned.  Some  newspaper 
columnists  hopped  on  Mike  for  permitting 
this  to  happen — but,  at  the  same  time, 
expressed  the  sincere  hope  that  his  "fear- 
less" interviews  would  be  allowed  to  con- 
tinue. Most  reviewers  continued  to  de- 
scribe the  show  as  "adult  and  intelligent." 
Mike  had  already  received  the  recognition 
of  the  radio-TV  industry  by  getting  New 
York  Emmy  Awards  for  the  "Most  Out- 
standing Live  Local  Program"  and  "Most 
Outstanding  Male  Personality." 

But,  when  Mike  Wallace  asks  questions, 
it's  a  case  of  major  surgery — and  the 
patient  has  no  anesthetic.  Mike  probes 
deep.  He  asked  pointblank  of  Sloan  Simp- 
son, ex-wife  of  William  O'Dwyer,  "Why 
did  you  walk  out  on  your  marriage?"  Of 
society  columnist  Igor  Cassini,  "How  many 
times  have  you  been  punched  in  the 
nose?"  Of  a  movie  starlet,  "Does  a  girl 
have  to  barter  her  morals  to  get  ahead  in 


Hollywood?"  Of  Abe  Burrows,  "Why  did 
you  go  into  psychoanalysis?"  Of  Elsa  Max- 
well, "You  don't  believe  in  fidelity  in  mar- 
riage?" Of  Mr.  John,  famed  millinery  de- 
signer, "Is  there  a  preponderance  of 
effeminate  men  in  the  fashion  industry?" 
Of  union  leader  Mike  Quill,  "Are  you  a 
religious  man?" 

Mike  Quill  seemingly  blew  his  top  over 
that  last  question,  and  called  Mike  Wal- 
lace a  "first-class  Peeping  Tom."  But  Mike 
Quill  was  the  exception.  Elsa  Maxwell 
said  that  she  didn't  resent  the  questions 
and,  actually,  enjoyed  herself,  Mary 
Margaret  McBride  found  Mike  charming. 
Abe  Burrows  took  it  with  a  grin  and 
chuckled.  Jack  Gould,  of  The  New  York 
Times,  said  of  Mike:  "He  has  an  adult 
curiosity  that  is  an  essential  to  reporting; 
most  of  all,  he  is  not  a  wise  guy."  Bennett 
Cerf,  another  guest  on  the  show,  reported 
in  The  Saturday  Review  of  Literature: 
"Mike  needles  guests  into  revealing  what 
really  makes  them  tick — and  who  are  their 
pet  hates.  This  show  belongs  on  a  coast- 
to-coast  hook-up." 

Mike  himself  originally  had  his  doubts 
about  doing  the  show  nationally.  "I  thought 
the  show  has  been  'oversold,'  "  he  recalls. 
"Maybe  one  out  of  five  interviews  was 
really  exciting.  Locally,  we  did  eight  half- 
hour  interviews  a  week.  If  we  fumbled,  we 
had  a  chance  to  get  the  ball  back.  On  net- 
work, we  could  do  only  one  interview  a 
week.  And  then  there  was  the  question  of 
freedom  of  subjects  and  questions.  In  New 
York,  we  presumed  that  we  were  talk- 
ing for  a  late-night,  adult  audience."  ABC 
reassured  Mike,  who  says,  "I  was  told 
that  I  could  ask  any  question  within  the 
bounds  of  good  taste.  My  contract  is  for 
fifty-two  weeks  in  prime  time.  That  means 
the  show  must  go  on  for  a  full  year,  one 
night  of  each  week,  between  seven-thirty 


* 


Write  it  for  the  TRUE  ROMANCE 
Magazine   Song   Contest   and   win 

$500  plus  possible  motion  picture, 
song  sheet  and  recording  royalties. 
Your  collaborator  will  be  the  com- 
poser of  "Body  and  Soul"  and  the 
score  and  title  song  of  MGM's 
"Raintree  County,"  JOHNNY 
GREEN,  a  member  of  the  Ameri- 
can Society  of  Composers,  Authors 
and  Publishers  (ASCAP),  under 
contract  to  Robbins,  Feist  and 
Miller,  publishers    (ASCAP). 


Johnny  Green 

Don't  miss  this  exciting  song-writ- 
ing contest. 

You  write  the  lyrics— JOHNNY 
GREEN  (ASCAP)  3-time  Academy 
Award  Winner,  will  set  the  winning 
lyrics  to  music.  See  the  current  issue 
of  TRUE  ROMANCE  Magazine  for 
contest  details  and  rules. 


AT  NEWSSTANDS  NOW 


T 
V 
R 

83 


T 
V 
R 

84 


Makes 

Pavements 

Fee! 

Like  Cushions ! 


D-rScholls 

%  Ball-o-foot 

Cushion 


fir 

You  Actually  Walk  On  Air! 

This   modern   miracle  of 
walking  ease— Dr.  Sertoli's  \ 
Ball-O-Foot  Cushion  for  \ 
men  and  women— relieves   \ 
pain, callouses, burning.ten-  - 

dernessatballof  foot. The  cushion,  not  you, 
absorbs  shock  of  each  step.  Loops  over  toe 
—no  adhesive.  Flesh  color.  Washable.  Only 
$1  pair.  At  Drug,  Shoe,  Dept.,  5-10^  Stores 
and  Dr.  Scholl's  Foot  Comfort®  Shops.  If 
not  obtainable  locally,  send  $1.00  direct  to 
DR.  SCHOLL'S,  Dept.  77B.  Chicago  10,  III. 

PflFMS  WANTED 

^J  L  I VI  ^Jp  For  musical  setting  .  .  .  send 
^^  ^^  Poems   today.    Any   subject. 

Immediate   consideration.    Phonograph    records    made. 

CROWN  MUSIC  CO., 49  W.32  St., Studio  164, New  Yorkl 


NOW!  Save  Up  to  50% 

on  Nationally  Advertised  Gifts 

Use  this  big,  new  FREE  CATA- 
LOG to  buy  all  kinds  of  gifts 
and  merchandise  for  yourself, 
family,  friends,  neighbors.  Ter- 
rific saving  on  big-name  items. 
Also,  make  money  spare  time 
taking   orders   from    others! 

EVERGREEN  STUDIOS 

Box    846       Evergreen    Park   42,    III. 


fSUbt&c 


LIPS  SORE? 


POCKET  SIZE 


Bf§T  FOl 

COLO 
\S0REL 


DIPPED 
UPS 


TROUBLED 
WITH 

UNWANTED 
HAIR? 


PROVIDENCE  15,  H.  I 


You  needn't  be!  Now  you  can 
remove  unwanted  hair  forever 
!—  in  the  privacy  of  your  home 
vith  the  famous  Mahler  Hair 
Removal  Epilator!  Acclaimed 
by  thousands  of  women  who 
I  have  discovered  how  Mahter 
|  destroys  the  hair  root  perma- 
nently! By  following  our  instruc- 
you.  too,  can  learn  to  use 
l^the  Mahler  safely  and  effi- 
t  ciently!  Positive  money-back 
guaranteel   Act  todayl        • 

Send  5*  for  illustrated  16-page  1 
booklet  "New  Radiant  Beauty"! 


MAKES  TEETH 
WHITE 

Like  a  movie  star  smile 
in  3  minutes ! 

Arc  your  teeth  discolored? 
Are  you  smile-shy?  Then  try 
a  marvelous  new  "dental- 
cosmetic"  for  the  thrill  of 
your  life!  Apply  kopal  on  your  teeth,  just  like  enamel 
on  the  nails.  Presto!  Instantly,  your  teeth  are  coated 
with  a  sparkling  white  finish  that  appears  so  pearl- 
like and  naturals — like  a.  movie-star  smile!  No  wonder 
beauty  editors,  thousands  of  smart  women  and  theatri- 
cal people  praise  kopal  for  covering  up  stains,  blem- 
ishes, even  gold  fillings  —  almost  like  magic!  kopal 
is  a  dentist's  formula,  completely  safe  and  harmless. 
guaranteed  radiant  results,  or  money  back!  Amazing 
value!  3-4  months'  supply  for  only  $3.30  tax  inc.  You 
be  the  sole  judge  of  how  this  wonderful  dental-cover- 
up  hides  bad  teeth.  Send  $3.30  today,  we  pay  postage. 
If  C.O.D.  you  pay  postage  and  charges,  frostie 
winters,    313  E.   53  St.,   Dept.  2609,  N.   Y.  22.   N.  Y. 


and  ten-thirty."  And  Mike  got  a  basic 
guarantee  of  $100,000  for  the  year. 

The  kind  of  man  who  gets  people  talking 
more  frankly  than  they  would  to  their 
own  diaries  is  medium-tall,  dark  and 
deadpan.  Mike  has  black  eyes,  black 
hair,  and  an  exceptionally  fine  voice.  He 
is  thirty-nine.  Mike  has  an  innate  cur- 
iosity about  others.  He  wants  to  know 
their  philosophy,  their  work — most  of  all, 
their  convictions.  Guests  coming  on  the 
show  expecting  to  be  frightened  find  them- 
selves responding  to  Mike's  genuine  in- 
terest. Unexpectedly,  they  are  "alone" 
with  him — for  the  interview  is  conducted 
in  an  atmosphere  as  intimate  as  a  living 
room  with  one  dim  lamp.  The  studio  is 
darkened,  quiet,  almost  cozy.  If  a  guest 
shows  up  with  friends  or  husband  or  wife, 
these  remain  outside.  Mike  doesn't  want 
the  distraction  of  a  laugh,  a  creaking  chair, 
a  whisper  or  a  sigh. 

Just  "alone  with  Mike"  have  been  sev- 
eral hundred  personalities,  such  as  Victor 
Riesel,  Billie  Holiday,  Kim  Hunter,  Ches- 
ter Bowles.  Harry  Belafonte  announced 
on  the  show  that  he  would  not  sing  in 
the  South  until  desegregation  was  an  ac- 
complished fact — Mike  asked  if  this  in 
itself  wasn't  some  kind  of  discrimina- 
tion,   and    Belafonte    thought    maybe    so. 

Mike  asked  long-popular  comedian 
George  Jessel  if  he  hadn't  been  a  flop  on 
television — and  George  said  the  rating 
people  didn't  know  what  they  were  talk- 
ing about.  He  asked  restaurant-owner 
Shor,  "Toots,  why  do  people  call  you  a 
slob?" — and  Toots  came  back:  "Me? 
Jiminy  crickets,  they  must  have  been  talk- 
ing about  Jackie  Gleason."  (Jackie,  one  of 
Toots's  best  friends,  didn't  sue.) 

Judging  from  some  of  the  results,  it 
might  seem  that  people  go  on  the  show 
at  the  point  of  a  gun.  This  is  not  so.  Many 
guests  volunteer — actors,  entertainers,  lec- 
turers, novelists  want  publicity.  But  many 
of  these  volunteers  are  turned  down. 
About  two- thirds  of  the  guests  are  in- 
vited on.  Most  accept.  Those  who  have 
nixed  the  show  so  far  include  Errol 
Flynn,  Marlene  Dietrich,  Tallulah  Bank- 
head,  Vincent  Lopez.  In  general,  their 
attitude  is — "Who  needs  it?" 

Guests  are  never  paid — although,  for 
the  network  show,  travel  expenses  are  met 
for  those  who  must  come  into  New  York. 
No  one  is  brought  on  to  be  exploited  and 
embarrassed.  There  are  "ground  rules," 
and  one  of  them  is  to  ask  the  guest  before- 
hand, "Is  there  anything  you  don't  want 
to  talk  about?"  Gloria  Swanson  was  asked 
expressly  if  she'd  mind  discussing  her 
divorces.  "How  could  I?"  she  asked. 
"It's  public  knowledge  that  I've  been  mar- 
ried five  times."  Even  so,  Mike  is  care- 
ful not  to  ask  for  personal  details.  "On 
divorces,  for  example,"  he  points  out,  "I 
would  not  ask  specific  questions.  I  don't 
want  to  embarrass  anyone.  I  want  the 
divorcee's  ideas  on  what  causes  incom- 
patibility, but  I  don't  want  to  dig  up  the 
past." 

The  guests'  answers  are  ad-lib,  but  the 
questions  are  prepared  in  advance,  and 
Mike  is  not  wholly  unprepared  for  the 
answers.  Producer  Ted  Yates,  who  has 
worked  with  Mike  since  the  inception  of 
the  show,  may  spend  a  day  or  so  with  a 
scheduled  guest.  The  show  also  has  a 
writer  who  may  take  on  this  chore.  Dur- 
ing this  preliminary  interview,  they  get 
a  good  idea  of  what  the  guest's  attitudes 
on  various  matters  will  be.  Twenty  or  so 
questions  are  prepared.  Mike  gets  a  kind 
of  brochure  from  his  staff.  If  the  guest 
is  a  writer,  Mike  will  read  one  or  more 
of  his  books.  If  it's  a  legislator,  Mike 
goes  to  the  Congressional  Record  to  read 
the  guest's  speeches.  Mike  meets  the 
guest  before  the  show,  but  there  is  no  re- 


hearsal. However,  when  Mike  sits  down 
for  the  interview,  he  has  been  fairly  well 
briefed  oiji  his  guest. 

Prepared  questions  or  no,  it  is  Mike's 
responsibility  to  get  his  guests  to  talk. 
Usually,  he  accomplishes  this  through  his 
own  obvious  sincerity  and  interest.  Some- 
times he  has  to  use  unorthodox  methods. 
But  it  works  both  ways:  Guests  are  never 
sure  of  what  Mike  will  ask  them,  and  Mike 
can  never  depend  on  a  guest  to  do  the 
expected.  When  Mike  Quill  blew  up  and 
called  Mike  Wallace  a  "first-class  Peeping 
Tom,"  it  was  just  his  way  of  putting  on 
a  good  show — according  to  Mike  W.,  on 
the  way  out  of  the  studio,  Mike  Q.  grinned 
at  Mike  W.  and  said,  "I  just  thought  I'd 
keep  things  lively  for  you." 

opeaking  of  subjects  who  have  done  the 
unexpected,  there  was  the  gal  writer  who 
came  into  the  studio,  and  asked  the  make- 
up man  to  make  her  eyes  look  sexy — yet, 
when  Mike  later  noted  that  her  prose  was 
overladen  with  sex,  she  got  angry.  And 
there  was  the  memorable  night  that 
sports-columnist  Jimmy  Cannon  snapped 
back  with  what  appeared  to  be  simply 
righteous  indignation.  Mike  asked,  "Why 
have  you  never  married?"  Jimmy  stiffened 
and  said,  "I'll  answer  that  question,  Mike, 
if  you'll  tell  me  why  you've  been  married 
three  times."  Actually,  Jimmy  was  ex- 
pressing what  most  viewers  have  felt  all 
along — a  curiosity  about  the  private  life 
of  the  man  who  asked  the  questions. 

To  begin  with,  Mike  was  born  Myron 
Wallace,  May  9,  1918,  in  Boston.  He  was 
the  youngest  of  four  children.  The  family 
lived  in  the  suburb  of  Brookline.  His 
father  was  a  wholesale  grocer  and  then, 
in  his  later  years,  an  insurance  broker. 
The  home  was  hanny  but  disciplined.  Mike 
recalls  that,  until  he  was  a  senior  in  high 
school,  he  had  to  be  in  bed  by  nine.  But 
such  restrictions  didn't  keep  him  from  an 
active  life.  He  was  on  the  debating  team 
and  captain  of  the  tennis  team.  He  played 
violin  in  the  school  orchestra  and  worked 
on  the  school  paper.  He  made  good 
grades  and  won  the  confidence  of  his 
teachers.  But  it  is  his  parents  that  he 
credits  for  his  strong  ideals. 

"My  parents  were  dedicated  to  an  hon- 
est life,"  he  says.  "My  father  was  the 
finest  man  I've  ever  known.  He  was 
wholly  honest.  He  was  so  respected  in 
the  community  that  when  he  died — in 
summer — although  half  of  the  congrega- 
tion were  out  of  town  on  vacation,  they 
came  back  to  the  city  for  his  funeral." 

Mike's  father  had  hoped  that  Mike 
would  aim  high.  When  Mike  went  to  the 
University  of  Michigan,  it  was  with  the 
intention  of  preparing  for  law  school  or 
getting  a  degree  to  teach  English.  But 
there  was  a  campus  radio  station  and  Mike 
couldn't  stay  away  from  it.  In  his  junior 
year,  he  consulted  with  an  uncle  who  was 
head  of  the  Economics  Department  at  Ann 
Arbor.  The  uncle  encouraged  Mike  to 
switch  over  to  a  speech  major. 

After  graduation,  in  1939,  Mike  went  to 
work  for  a  small  Grand  Rapids  station. 
"I  was  to  make  very  good  money  in 
radio,"  he  says,  "but  I  think  I  felt  trapped 
by  it.  I  liked  being  successful,  at  first,  but 
I  wasn't  satisfied.    I  wasn't  fulfilled." 

His  first  job  paid  twenty  dollars  a  week. 
By  the  end  of  1939,  he  was  making  sev- 
enty. In  1941,  he  was  earning  two  hun- 
dred a  week  at  WXYZ  in  Detroit  and 
narrating  The  Lone  Ranger.  Later  that 
year,  he  had  a  further  boost  in  income 
when  he  tried  out  in  a  competitive  audi- 
tion in  Chicago  and  was  hired  as  announcer 
for  the  serial,  The  Road  Of  Life.  "Yet  it 
always  disturbed  me  that  I  was  just 
reading  other  people's  words,"  he  recalls. 
"It  didn't  seem  much  of  an  accomplish- 
ment." 


A  year  after  he  arrived  in  Chicago,  he 
got  a  chance  to  do  something  worth- 
while as  newscaster  on  the  "Air  Edition" 
of  the  Chicago  Sun-Times.  Mike  him- 
self wrote  the  news  and  went  after  some 
of  the  stories.  For  the  first  time,  he 
was  beginning  to  get  a  sense  of  fulfillment. 
Then  his  career  was  interrupted  by  World 
War  II.  He  served  three  years  in  the  Navy 
and  got  out  with  the  rank  of  lieutenant, 
junior  grade.  He  returned  to  radio  in 
Chicago  and  proved  himself  to  be  the  most 
successful  announcer  in  the  city.  He  was 
called   "Mr.  Radio." 

When  Mike  was  persuaded  to  come 
to  New  York  in  1951,  he  continued  to  try 
building  shows  of  substance.  For  CBS- 
TV,  he  formulated  Adventure  and  All 
Around  The  Town.  For  CBS  Radio,  he 
initiated  the  program,  Stage  Struck,  a  se- 
ries of  backstage  interviews.  He  was  chosen 
by  NBC  to  co-host  Weekday  with  Mar- 
garet Truman  and,  later,  Virginia  Graham. 
Last  year,  while  emceeing  the  network 
quiz,  The  Big  Surprise,  he  develooed 
Night  Beat  and  a  news  show  with  Ted 
Yates  and  WABD  station  manager  Ted 
Cott.  Even  Mike's  news  shows  were  diff- 
erent. He  didn't  sit  still  and  read  re- 
ports. He  moved  about  the  studio, 
illustrating  a  story  with  pictures,  graphs, 
exhibits.  He  made  special  reports  on  un- 
solved murders,  commuter  problems,  the 
Puerto  Rican  insurgence.  The  news  show 
was  dynamic.  He  practiced  his  unique 
interview  technique  on  Night  Beat. 

1  hat  brings  his  professional  career  up 
to  the  present.  But,  during  those  years, 
he  was  also  having  a  private  life.  Girls 
didn't  come  into  Mike's  fife  until  he  got 
to  college.  His  campus  sweetheart,  Norma 
Kaphan,  was  to  become  his  first  wife. 
She  was  still  a  junior  when  they  married. 
The  wedding  was  on  August  27,  1940. 
Mike's  only  children,  two  boys,  were  born 
during  this  marriage,  which  ended  in 
divorce  in  1947.  In  1949,  Mike  married 
Buff  Cobb,  actress  and  granddaughter  of 
famed  humorist  Irwin  R.  Cobb.  That  mar- 
riage ended  early  in  1955.  In  July  of  that 
same  year,  he  married  Lorraine  Perigord. 
February  of  that  year,  he  had  met  her 
at  San  Juan  in  Puerto  Rico,  where  Mike 
had  gone  to  emcee  a  March  of  Dimes  din- 
ner-dance. Lorraine  was  operating  an 
art  gallery  there.  A  month  later,  Mike 
took  a  two-week  vacation  in  Puerto  Rico 
and  Haiti.  In  May,  Lorraine  came  to  New 
York  for  a  visit — and  the  wedding  date 
was  set.    It  was  that  auick. 

"Lorraine,"  says  Mike,  "is  warm,  serene, 
tolerant,  beautiful  and  talented."  She 
is  a  dark  blonde,  five-five,  and  has  two 
children  by  her  first  marriage  who  were 
living  with  her  in  Puerto  Rico  when 
Mike  met  her.  She  had  spent  most  of 
her  life  in  California,  for  her  father,  Dr. 
Paul  Perigord,  was  a  professor  and  dean 
at  U.C.L.A.,  as  well  as  one  of  the  found- 
ers of  the  California  Institute  of  Tech- 
nology and  the  Pasadena  Playhouse.  Lor- 
raine is  an  artist.  Like  Mike,  she  is  well- 
read  and  thoughtful. 

They  live  outside  Manhattan  at  Sne- 
den's  Landing.  Their  home,  a  100-year-old 
Dutch  Colonial  house  which  overlooks 
the  Hudson  River,  is  furnished  inform- 
ally. Floors  are  bare,  with  occasional 
rugs,  and  the  furniture  itself  is  "mongrel," 
picked   up   secondhand  and  worked  over. 

"I  am  a  square  about  small  talk,  night 
clubs,  martinis  and  dancing,"  Mike  says. 
"My  spare  time  is  spent  at  home,  reading 
and  talking.  Lorraine  and  I  are  walkers. 
We  walk  and  talk  endlessly."  And  Mike 
further   notes,    "This   marriage   will    last." 

That  is  not  just  an  emotional  footnote, 
for  Mike  does  to  himself  what  he  does  to 
others  in  interviews — asks  himself  the 
whys  and  wherefores  and  how-comes.  He 
was  not  at  all  reluctant  in  answering  the 


following  specific  questions  about  his  per- 
sonal problems: 

Question:    What  caused  your  divorces? 

Mike:  I  won't  go  into  details — just  as 
I  wouldn't  expect  anyone  I  was  inter- 
viewing to  do  so — but  I  can  answer  the 
question.  First,  let  me  make  clear  that 
my  marriages  weren't  hit-and-run  affairs. 
My  first  lasted  seven  years.  The  second, 
six  years.  I  think  it  was  mainly  a  matter 
of  growing  away  from  each  other.  As  we 
grew,  we  found  that  each  had  opposing 
goals,  different  interests.  Now  I  am  thirty- 
nine  and  Lorraine  is  thirty-six.  We  have 
both  passed  our  formative  years.  We  re- 
spect each  other  for  what  we  will  be  the 
rest  of  our  lives.  We  have  maturity  and 
tolerance  and  understanding.  Of  course, 
I'm  easier  to  get  along  with,  too. 

Question:  That  brings  up  another  mat- 
ter— do  you  lose  your  temper  with  people 
at  the  studio  or  at  home? 

Mike:  I  don't  lose  my  temper  now.  In 
the  past,  I  have  been  hard  to  get  along 
with.  I  have  been  intolerant  of  others. 
Intolerant  of  dull  people — and  by  that 
I  mean  people  who  lack  quickness.  I 
don't  like  time-wasting.  I  used  to  go  after 
the  mistakes   of  others. 

Question:  You  have  asked  others  about 
their  attitude  on  fidelity  and  the  "dou- 
ble standard."    What  is  your  own  stand? 

Mike:  I  don't  believe  in  the  double 
standard,  for  I  believe  that  both  husband 
and  wife  should  practice  fidelity.  I'm  a 
moral  man  and  definitely  believe  in  self- 
discipline.  I  can't  put  up  with  people 
who  have  no  self-control.  I  can't  put  up 
with  boozers. 

Question:  The  charge  is  made  that 
you,  as  an  interviewer,  are  preoccupied 
with  questions  about  sex. 

Mike:  That's  not  true.  Maybe  ten  per- 
cent of  all  the  interviewing  hits  at  sex.  We 
do  ask  questions  about  sex,  religion  and 
politics;  for  people  are  never  as  fully 
awakened  as  when  they  discuss  those 
three  subjects.  I  wouldn't  ask  a  man 
about  what  he  eats  for  breakfast  or  what 
he  wears  on  Saturday,  for  he  doesn't  think 
about  those  things.  He  has  no  provocative 
ideas  on  those  subjects.  We  want  devth 
on  the  show.  But  I  do  take  responsibility 
for  what  is  asked.  The  show  reflects  my 
tastes. 

Question:  What  is  your  own  appraisal  of 
your   interviews? 

Mike:  Some  call  the  show  "TV  journal- 
ism" or  "interviews-in-depth."  They  both 
sound  too  fancy.  For  me,  the  show  repre- 
sents a  ventilation  of  ideas.  On  a  good 
show — the  best  ones — we  accomplish  two 
things:  Go  to  the  core  of  the  person,  and 
get  a  full  discussion  of  his  subject.  We 
don't  take  sides.  We  don't  put  the  lid 
on.  We  want  to  leave  the  audience  think- 
ing. The  audience  should  find  it  neces- 
sary to  make  up  its  own  mind. 

Question:  It  would  seem  that  you  are 
pioneering  in  broadcasting,  in  that  you 
will  make  it  possible  for  other  men  and 
other  programs  to  discuss  controversial 
subjects  that  were  once  considered  taboo 
on  the  air. 

Mike:  I  didn't  start  out  to  pioneer.  I'm 
just  not  that  kind  of  fellow.  We  started 
out  to  make  the  show  interesting — but 
I  would  now  agree  that  it  is  "pioneering." 

Question:    What  is  your  goal? 

Mike:  I  said  that,  early  in  my  career 
in  radio,  although  I  was  successful,  I  felt 
trapped  by  money.  I  was  unhappy.  I 
wasn't  fulfilled.  I  wanted  something  to 
think  about.  I  wanted  to  accomplish 
something  I  could  be  proud  of.  I  think 
we  are  accomplishing  something  with  the 
interviews. 

Question:  And  what  about  the  charge 
that  you  are  sensational? 

Mike:  We  never  intend  to  be.  We  want 
to  be  exciting.  If  we  were  sensational — 
that's  something  I  could  not  be  proud  of. 


the 

TOMMY 

SANDS 

story 

complete  with 
over  125  photos 


Will  SANDS  REPLACE  EMS  PRESLEY? 

Don't  miss  this  exciting  picture-filled 
life  story  of  the  handsome,  talented 
Tommy  Sands.  Here,  for  the  first  time, 
is  the  complete  account  of  the  young- 
ster who  took  show  business  by  storm, 
the  full  story  of  his  fabulous  acting 
and  recording  success,  the  inside,  little 
known  details  of  Tommy  Sands  the 
performer  and  Tommy  Sands  the  hu- 
man being. 

TOMMY  SANDS 

Yours   at  all    newsstands — 35c 

If  your  newsdealer  has  sold  out, 
use  this  coupon 


1   BARTH   HOUSE,   INC. 

1  205  E.  42  ST.,  NEW  YORK,  17,  N.  Y. 

I  SIRS: 

J  1  ENCLOSE  35c.  PLEASE  RUSH  THE  NEW  1 
|  TOMMY  SANDS  BOOK  TO  ME. 

|   NAME 

1   ADDRESS 

j  CITY 

ZONE...  STATE 

1 

T 
V 
R 

85 


86 


Com,Callous,Bunion 
Pain  Stops! 


!=  SUPER-FAST-^ 

.NERVEDEEf* 
^RELIEF!  " 


No  waiting  for  relief  when 
you  use  Dr.  SchoU's  Zino-pada. 
They  stop  pain  at  its  source  .  .  . 
ease  new  or  tight  shoes  .  . .  remove 
corns,  callouses  one  of  the  quickest 
ways  known  to  medical  science. 
New  skin-matching  color;  worn 
invisibly.  Try  them!  At  Drug, 
Shoe,  Department,  5-10£  Stores. 


D-rScholls 

Zinopads 


CALLOUSES 


s 


500 


FOR  YOUR 

CHILD'S 


PAID 


PHOTO 


CASH  PAYMENTS  made  for  chil- 
dren's photos,  all  types,  ages  1 
mo.  to  18  yrs.  by  national  adver- 
tisers. Hundreds  selected  every 

month  for  usein  advertising.  Send  1  small  photo forapproval. 

Print  child's  &  mother's  name,  address  on  back.  Also  2  FREE 

gifts  for  photos  selected.  Returned  2  weeks.  No  obligation. 

AD-PHOTOS,  6087-HI  Sunset,  Hollywood  28,  Calif. 


Ill 


LL 


New  1957 

4-STYLE 

CHRISTMAS 

ASSORTMENT 

OF  24  CARDS 

(FREE  SAMPLES  | 
Name  Imprinted  I 
ChrUtma^Card^l 


I  No  classes  to  attend.  Easy  spare-time  t 

ling  covers  big  choice  of  subjects.  Friendly  \ 

\  instructors;  standard  texts.  Full  credit  for^ 

previous  schooling.     Diploma  awarded. 

Write  now  for  FREE  catalog  HH-50. 

I  WAYNE  SCHOOL    utuit^'Vu 

f  2527  Sheffield  Ave.,  Chicago  14,  Illinois. 


Make  $50,  ITS,  $100  Extra  Menoy 

Start  a  GREETING  CARD 
&  GIFT  SHOP  at  home 

Show  friends  New  Ideas  in  Christmas, 
All  Occasion  greeting  card  assort- 
ments, gift  wrappings,  home  and  gift 
items.  It*s  easy  —  it's  fun!  Profits 
to  SI. 00  per  box.  Bonus.  Write  for 
Free  Trial  Outfit  of  Feature  boxes  on 
approval.  Free  Catalog,  Selling  Guide, 
all  details  and  Sensational  Free  Offer. 

NEW  ENGLAND  ART  PUBLISHERS 
North  Abington921,     Mass. 


ANY  PHOTO  ENLARGED 

Size  8  x  lO  Inches 

on  DOUBLE-WEIGHT  Paper 

Same  price  for  fall  length  or  bast 
form,  groapB,  landscapes,  pet  ani-  i 
male,  etc.,  or  enlargements  of  any  I 
part  of  a  irronp  picture.  Original 
returned  with  your  enlargemei 
-—-^i—i—ia   On  orders  of  2 

FREE!  £Si S7^.,  FREE.  Mai, 
photo,  negative  or  snapshot  (any  size)  and  receive 
yoor  enlargement,  guaranteed  fadeless,  oa  beau- 
tiful double -weight  portrait  quality  paper. 
C  O.  D.'s  accepted  on  orders  of  2  or  more. 
Take  advantage  of  this  amazing  offer.    Send  your  photos  today. 

Professional  Art  Studios,  544  S.  Main,  DepL  37- L,  Princeton,  Illinois 


f*W 


ifourgogjl 


ENLARGEMENT 

OF  YOUR  FAVORITE  PH0T00R  NEGATIVE 
Just  to  get  acquainted,  we  will 
make  you  a  FREE  beautiful  studio 
quality  5x7  black  and  white  en- 
largement of  any  snapshot,  photo 
or  negative.  Be  sure  to  include 
color  of  hair,  eyes  and  clothing, 
for  prompt  information  on  our 
Bargain  Offer  for  having  your  en- 
largementbeautifully  hand-colored 
in  oil  and  mounted  in  a  hand- 
some frame.  Please  enclose  25c  for  handling  and 
mailing.  Limit  2.  Originals  returned.  We  will  pay 
$100.00  for  a  photo  selected  bi-monthly  to  be  used  in 
our  advertising.  LimitedtoU.S.A.only.  ActNOW! 
HOLLYWOOD  FILM  STUDIOS,  Dept.  f-398 
7021    Santa    Monica    Blvd.,    Hollywood    38,    Calif. 


5S 

THIS  PHOTO 
RECEIVED  $100 


Mineo's  Really  Moving 


{Continued  from  page  32) 

"Oh,  who's  the  star?"  Maxin  asked  her. 

"Sal  Mineo,  of  course,"  said  Mary,  and 
effervesced  with  adjectives  to  describe 
Sal's  portrayal  of  the  lonely,  mixed-up 
kid  whom  James  Dean  tried  to  be- 
friend   in   "Rebel   Without   a   Cause." 

Her  enthusiasm  fell  on  receptive  ears, 
for  Arnold  Maxin  is  Epic  Records'  art- 
ists-and-repertoire  man  in  the  popular 
music  field.  Although  Maxin  had  for- 
gotten that  Sal,  in  his  first  Broadway 
role  as  the  little  crown  prince  in  "The 
King  and  I,"  had  piped  a  pleasing  boy- 
soprano  to  Yul  Brynner's  baritone,  Maxin 
was  interested.  "I  had  seen  Sal  in  a 
television  show  a  short  time  before," 
he  says.  "Since  singing  isn't  too  much 
different  from  acting,  I  felt  sure  that 
this  vital  teen-age  personality  could 
project  a  song." 

Acting  on  his  hunch,  he  telephoned 
Sal  the  next  day  to  ask  if  he  would  like 
to  record.  Sal — who  had  been  finding  his 
rhythmic  expression  in  playing  drums, 
rather  than  vocalizing — was  candid.  "I'd 
like  to,  but  I  don't  know  if  I  can.  I 
haven't  sung  since  my  voice  changed." 

Hollywood  contract  obligations  were  a 
further  impediment.  They  didn't  even 
have  time  to  make  a  test  before  Sal  had 
to  leave  New  York  to  make  "Dino"  and 
"The  Young  Don't  Cry."  He  would  be 
gone  for  months.  But  Maxin  was  willing  to 
wait.  "I  wanted  to  find  material  which 
would  suit  both  of  us." 

Sal's  own  particular  secret  of  success  is 
one  instilled  by  his  mother,  Josephine — 
Mrs.  Salvatore  Mineo,  Sr. — who  long  ago 
laid  down  the  precept:  "When  you  want 
something,  study  it,  learn  about  it,  be 
ready.  Don't  depend  on  luck." 

On  his  return  last  spring,  Epic  pro- 
vided him  with  two  coaches.  Fred  Steele 
was  his  vocal  coach  and  Otis  Blackwell 
took  charge  of  style  training.  The  result 
amazed  even  Arnold  Maxin:  "You'd  have 
thought  he  had  been  singing  all  his  life. 
This  boy  is  a  professional  in  everything 
he  does.  Here  he  was,  making  his  first 
recording,  and  it  was  as  relaxed  and  easy 
a  session  as  I  have  ever  cut.  We  com- 
pleted the  rock  'n'  roll  side,  'Start  Movin' 
(in  My  Direction),'  in  four  takes.  We  did 
the  recitation  side,  'Love  Affair,'  in  just 
two  takes — once  for  balance  and  once  for 
recording.  That's  phenomenal  in  the  music 
business." 

The  platter's  reception,  too,  was  phe- 
nomenal. Sal  introduced  it  in  the  Kraft 
Television  Theater  play,  "Drummer  Boy," 
on  May  1.  (This  also  was  Sal's  first  ro- 
mantic role.)  When  Sal  and  Maxin  went 
out  on  tour  to  meet  fans  and  disc  jockeys, 
there  were  3,000  young  people  at  the 
Boston  airport.  In  Cleveland,  when  Sal 
flew  in  to  appear  on  Bill  Randle's  pro- 
gram, the  special  police  detail  was  not 
large  enough  to  hold  back  the  crowds. 
Girls  screamed,  "Sal,  I  love  you!"  and 
wept  when  they  could  not  fight  their  way 
to  touch  him. 

Detroit  was  pure  pandemonium.  Sal 
was  scheduled  to  appear  on  Bobbin'  With 
Robin,  Robin  Seymour's  remote  tele- 
cast from  Edgewater  Park.  The  twenty- 
five  police  who  were  on  duty  had 
to  send  for  reinforcements.  The  exuber- 
ant, moving  crowd  of  teenagers  jostled 
the  temporary  TV  equipment  and  knocked 
the  television  station  off  the  air  at  least 
twice.  In  the  commotion,  Sal  nearly  missed 
the  broadcast.  "We  parked  the  car  only 
eight  feet  from  the  audio  control  booth," 
says  Maxin,  "but  the  kids  hemmed  us  in. 
It  was  thirty  minutes  before  we  could 
get  Sal  out  of  the  car." 

What  does  Sal  think  of  such  a  reception? 


Like  any  teenager,  he's  thrilled:  "Man, 
I  couldn't  quite  believe  it."  He's  also 
worried:  "What  if  someone  should  get 
hurt?"  He's  deeply  appreciative,  too: 
"Where  would  I  be  without  the  kids?" 
Such  receptions  helped  head  his  record 
toward  the  best-seller  classification  in- 
stantly. Within  three  weeks  of  release, 
the  kids  had  bought  a  half  million  of  them. 
Epic  expects  total  sales  to  reach  two 
million. 

l;he  success  of  the  recording  is  partic- 
ularly important  to  Sal  at  the  present 
time,  for — through  this  record,  plus  a  new 
album  which  is  to  be  issued,  and  disc 
jockey  interviews — he  can  stay  in  touch 
with  friends  while  allowing  himself  the 
luxury  of  the  most  "private"  private  life 
he  has  had  in  the  more  recent  of  his 
eighteen  years. 

This  year,  Sal  Mineo,  actor,  is  to  be 
replaced,  at  least  partially,  by  Sal  Mineo, 
student.  Sal  is  going  to  college. 

He  will  take  a  liberal  arts  course, 
majoring  in  English,  at  Adelphi  College 
on  Long  Island.  When  he  speaks  of  it,  you 
understand  that  this  is  a  realization  of  a 
dream,  for  Sal,  who  can  be  both  the  most 
deadpan  and  the  most  expressive  of  kids, 
lights  that  fire  back  of  his  eyes  which  fans 
wait  to  see  flare  up  on  the  movie  screen. 

He  already  knows  the  school.  "My 
brother  Vic  went  there.  He  liked  it  and  I 
do,  too."  It's  a  small  school  and  this,  to 
Sal,  is  most  important.  "I'll  get  to  know  all 
of  the  kids  real  quick.  They'll  get  used 
to  me,  too.  I'll  be  off  the  celebrity  kick 
and  just  one  of  the  gang.  I  can  go  to 
parties  and  clubs  and  have  some  fun." 

You  understand,  as  he  speaks,  that 
the  lack  of  fun — the  ordinary  sort  of 
thing  kids  do  after  school  and  in  class — 
is  the  price  Sal  has  paid  for  his  fabulous 
success.  "High  school  was  just  work.  I 
had  a  tutor  and  I  studied  and  I  passed 
my  exams,  and  that  was  all  there  was 
to  it." 

His  liberal  arts  major  will  give  him 
further  training  in  fields  where  he  al- 
ready has  developed  an  interest.  He's  a 
bit  of  an  artist  and  has  taught  himself  to 
paint.  On  the  walls  of  his  bedroom  hang 
the  copy  he  made  of  Gainsborough's  "Blue 
Boy"  and  an  original  of  his  beloved  boxer 
dog,  "Bimbo."  His  mother  mourns  the 
loss  of  the  portrait  he  did  of  James  Dean: 
"Some  magazine  borrowed  it  and  didn't 
send  it  back."  His  sister  Sarina  cherishes 
his  head  of  Tony  Curtis:  "No  one  can 
get  that  away  from  me."  Sal's  style,  while 
still  a  bit  stiff  and  untrained,  does  show 
strength  and  perception.  If  he  ever  chooses 
to  study  portraiture,  he  could  well  be- 
come as  fine  a  professional  in  this  field 
as  he  is  in  acting. 

He  is  more  interested  in  English.  He  has 
done  some  writing — "but  not  to  show 
anyone,"  by  his  modest  description.  Yet, 
in  the  next  breath,  he  admits  that  his 
urge  to  write  already  is  sufficiently 
strong  to  have  come  out  into  the  open. 
"I  wasn't  quite  satisfied  with  the  original 
ending  of  'Dino,'  so  one  night  I  wrote 
three  different  endings  of  my  own."  None 
was  used,  but  Sal's  professionalism  as  an 
actor  mitigates  his  disappointment.  "The 
producer  liked  all  of  them,  but  there  was 
just  so  much  budget,  so  that  was   that." 

He  learned  the  problems  of  a  writer 
when  a  magazine  asked  for  an  autobiog- 
raphy: "It's  hard  to  write  about  your- 
self. I  just  wanted  to  do  a  story  about  a 
boy  who  gets  into  show  business.  I 
wanted  to  do  it  third  person,  and  then  at 
the  end  say,  "And,  by  the  way,  his  name 
happened  to  be  Sal  Mineo."  But  the 
editor    said    that    wasn't    being    fair    with 


the  readers — that  it  was  a  freshman- 
theme  device.  So  I  had  to  do  it  over.  And 
I  really  labored.  How  can  you  tell  all 
about  yourself  in  4,000  words?  If  you 
leave   out   something,   then   it   isn't   true." 

Sal  cites  one  of  Adelphi's  strongest 
attractions  when  he  says,  "I'll  be  able  to 
drive  home  every  night."  Home,  next 
fall,  will  be  a  fine  new  house  in  West- 
chester, which  is  now  under  construc- 
tion. Home  at  present,  is  a  three-storey 
dwelling  on  a  block-long  street  in  a  re- 
mote section  of  the  Bronx  which  no  out- 
of-towner  would  ever  believe  was  part  of 
the  City  of  New  York.  The  opposite  side 
of  the  street  is  lined  with  comparable 
comfortable,  middle-income  houses,  but 
there  are  open  fields  at  the  side  and  rear, 
and  not  very  far  away  is  the  river  which 
also  has  provided  recreation  for  the 
four  young  Mineos.  They  swim.  They 
have   a  boat.  They   enjoy  being  together. 

Perhaps  their  very  closeness  has  given 
Sal  the  perspective  and  sympathy  which 
enables  him  to  play  lonely,  troubled-kid 
roles  in  pictures.  If  the  "Life  of  Sal 
Mineo"  ever  becomes  a  screenplay,  the 
script  writer  will  find  a  wealth  of  warm, 
family  feeling  and  one  of  those  stories 
which  again  reveals  America  as  a  land 
of  opportunity  for  those  who  make  it  so. 

It  began  when  Salvatore  Mineo,  Sr., 
came  from  Sicily  at  the  age  of  sixteen 
and  met  in  New  York  a  young  beauty  of 
Neapolitan  descent  who  wouldn't  even  go 
out  with  him  until  he  learned  to  speak 
English.  Salvatore  learned  both  a  new 
language  and  a  new  trade.  In  Sicily,  he 
had  carved  miniature  animals  from  ivory. 
In  America,  he  did  odd  jobs  until  his 
Josephine  suggested  he  become  a  cabinet- 
maker. After  their  marriage,  he  became 
a  foreman  at  the  Bronx  Casket  Company. 

Sal  is  proud  of  the  way  his  father  started 
his  own  business.  "It  was  my  mother  who 
really  made  him.  She  said,  'Here  you  are, 
working  like  a  dog  for  others.  You 
should  be  working  for  yourself  and  your 
children.' "  Friends  put  up  the  money  to 
back  him  and  the  Mineo  family  now  owns 
the  Universal  Casket  Company.  Every- 
one  helped   build   it   to   prosperity. 

Josephine  was  the  bookkeeper.  Mike, 
now  20,  and  Victor,  now  19,  first  worked 
in  the  factory  and,  when  they  were  old 
enough,  replaced  their  mother  in  the 
office.  Sal's  contribution  was  baby-sitting 
with  little  Sarina:  "I  did  everything  from 
feeding  her  to  telling  her  good-night 
stories.  I  earned  a  salary  of  fifty  cents  a 
week.  When  I  got  paid,  I'd  go  down  to  the 
candy  store  and  get  some  soda,  ice  cream 
and  jelly  beans.  Then  I'd  go  home  and 
we'd  have  a  party,  Sarina  and  I,  and  our 
two   cats,   Smoky   and   Tiger." 

Even  in  those  days,  when  all  earnings 
"had  to  go  back  into  the  business,"  the 
elder  Mineo  managed  to  treat  all  three 
of  their  sons  equally.  When  one  wanted 
a  bike,  all  three  got  bikes.  Today,  it  is 
automobiles.  Sal  is  proud  of  the  fact  that 
he  didn't  buy  his  new  Thunderbird — 
his  family  gave  it  to  him. 

"We  each  get  a  new  car  when  we  turn 
eighteen,"  Sal  explains.  "I  was  home  on 
my  birthday,  January  10,  when  the  car 
was  delivered,  but  I  had  only  a  few  hours 
to  drive  it  before  I  had  to  fly  back  to 
Hollywood.  So  there  I  was,  driving  my 
old  jalopy  when  I  had  a  Thunderbird  sit- 
ting in  the  garage  at  home  in  New  York." 

Another  family  tradition  is  expressed 
in  rings.  Sarina,  the  latest  to  acquire  one, 
explains,  "My  mother  gave  my  father  a 
snake  ring  years  ago.  It  was  lucky  for 
him,  so  now  we  each  get  one."  Where 
the  first  was  an  inexpensive  novelty  item, 
the  rings  are  now  hand-made  to  Mrs. 
Mineo's  order. 

Sal's  career,  too,  has  been  jointly  shared. 


He  was  eleven  years  old  and  in  dancing 
class  when,  from  a  crowd  of  fifteen  boys, 
Broadway  producer  Cheryl  Crawford 
chose  him  to  appear  in  Tennessee  Wil- 
liams' play,  "The  Rose  Tattoo,"  because  "he 
looked  Italian." 

Next  came  the  crown  prince  part  in 
"The  King  and  I."  He  made  his  first  movie 
in  Boston,  portraying  Tony  Curtis  as  a 
boy,  in  "Six  Bridges  to  Cross."  Hollywood 
came  next  and  led  up  to  his  being  nom- 
inated for  the  Academy  Award  for  his 
role  in  "Rebel  Without  a  Cause."  From 
then  on,  top  credits  have  come  fast,  but 
they  have  never  been  quite  complete. 
For  accuracy,  they  should  have  read: 
"Sal  Mineo,  backed  up  by  all  the  Mineos." 

When  they  were  first  making  the  rounds 
of  casting  directors,  Mrs.  Mineo  set  the 
direction.  She  didn't  want  Sal  to  grow  up 
to  be  a  show-business  brat.  Her  antidote 
for  a  prematurely  swelled  head  was  to 
keep  the  family  together.  "If  Sal  was  with 
his  brothers,"  she  says,  "he  couldn't  help 
realize  he  was  no  better  than  the  rest  of 
them.  When  problems  came  up,  we'd  all 
sit  down  around  the  dining-room  table 
and  thresh  them  out,  no  holds  barred. 
Sometimes  we'd  sit  up  until  two  o'clock 
in  the  morning,  just  talking." 

In  the  present  division  of  labor,  Mike 
is  in  charge  of  the  West  Coast  activities 
and  Victor  of  the  East  Coast,  with  Mrs. 
Mineo  providing  the  capable  direction: 
"What  we  didn't  know  about  show  busi- 
ness, we've  learned  together."  His  broth- 
ers, however,  are  not  expected  to  be 
merely  Sal's  satellites.  The  Mineos  be- 
lieve, "A  little  education   never   hurts." 

Mike  is  majoring  in  business  education 
at  U.C.LA.  and  also  has  had  bit  parts  in 
a  few  pictures.  "Being  around  the  lot  with 
Sal,"  his  mother  says,  "he  was  noticed  and 
asked  if  he'd  like  to  be  in  some  crowd 
shots.  He  began  to  get  the  hang  of  things, 
so  now  he  makes  the  rounds."  He's  had 
some  small  parts.  She  completely  ap- 
proves. "It's  good  for  him  to  know  what 
it  is  like  to  be  in  front  of  a  camera." 

Vic  is  majoring  in  business  administra- 
tion at  New  York  University,  but  takes 
time  off  to  accompany  Sal  on  personal 
appearances.  Sarina  helps  out  in  taking 
care  of  the  fan  mail,  which  runs  to  3,000 
letters  a  week.  Two  secretaries  help  out. 

Sal  Mineo,  Sr.  has  first  call,  however, 
on  the  services  of  this  capable  crew.  "We 
do  things  together,"  Sal  says  proudly, 
"but  my  father  supports  the  family." 

Sal  has  both  a  short-range  and  a  long- 
range  plan  for  the  future.  Along  with 
his  college  work  this  fall,  he  has 
scheduled  appearances  on  television 
shows.  "That's  one  reason  I  chose  Adelphi. 
It's  so  close  to  New  York."  Two  pictures 
are  now  on  the  screens  and  Sal  does  not 
plan  to  do  another  this  year,  unless  he  gets 
a  role  he  really  wants.  Twentieth  Cen- 
tury-Fox has  a  script  which  he  particu- 
larly likes,  "The  Hell-Bent  Kid."  He 
indicates  that  this,  if  offered  to  him,  would 
tempt  him  away  from  the  campus.  How- 
ever, he  would  like  to  get  in  as  much 
study  as  he  can  before  being  called  up  for 
Army  service. 

His  future  sights  are  set  on  a  Broad- 
way role  and  on  directing.  In  Sal's  mind, 
one  is  a  training  for  the  other:  "A  live 
audience  teaches  you  things.  It  is  like 
studying,  with  them  coaching  you."  He 
grows  most  eloquent  about  directing.  "I 
admire  a  director  because  of  what  he  can 
do.  An  actor  sees  only  himself,  but  a 
director  can  take  just  a  paper  with  lines 
on  it  and  turn  it  into  a  show — something 
that  is  real  and  never  existed  before.  I 
don't  want  to  deal  in — what  shall  I  say? — 
a  mode  article.  I  want  to  make  something 
happen.  Imagination  is  the  most  impor- 
tant thing." 


Save  $1.00  Under 
Newsstand  Prices 

Mail  This  Coupon  Today J 

TV  RADIO  MIRROR,  TV  9-57 

205  East  42  St.,  N.Y.  17,  N.  Y. 

Yes!  Enter  my  bargain  subscription  at  once. 
Send    me    18    months   of    TV    Radio    Mirror 
for  $3.  *2  extra  issues  if  you  send  payment 
with  order. 
*□  I  enclose  $3  as  payment  in  full.  □  Bill  me. 


Name. . . 
Address. 


(Please  Print) 


City Zone. .  .State. 


SONGWRITERS! 

PROTECT   YOUR   IDEAS!    HOLD    ALL   SONGS,    POEMS! 

Write    for    safe,    correct    procedure! 

SONG  SERVICE 
Dept.  T.V.  333  W.  56th  St..  New  York  19,  N.  Y. 


kleaw' 


1 


Prepare  now,  at  home,  for  a  wonderful  acting  career!  Open 
«  the  door  that  may  bring  fabulous  Hollywood  or  New  York 
W.  contracts  in  TV,  Movies,  the  Theater!  New  faces,  new  tal- 
'  ent,  are  urgently  needed!  Real  opportunity  for  men  and 
women  of  all  ages!  Learn  latest  acting  techniques,  direction, 
\  show  business  "success  secrets"!  Develop  new  poise  ,  vi- 
brant personality  as  you  mould  your  basic  talent.  We  ve 
I  helped  countless  others ...  let  us  show  you  the  way. 

Fnrr  I  "Talent  Aptitude"Tesf.Nothinglikeiteverllersyou 
'J    rate  your  talent  against  "studio  requirements." 
1  Write  for  FREE"Test"«  "Success  Plan"!  No  salesman  will  call.^ 
•  HOLLYWOOD  ROYAL  ACADEMY  •         1 
\  Studio  K8        5880  Hollywood  Blvd.,  Hollywood  28,  Calif; 


87 


NEW  DESIGNS  FOR  LIVING 


{|p^ 


7219 — He's  a  gay  decoration,  but  also  a 
handy  Pajama  Bag  to  teach  children  neat- 
ness. They  stuff  their  PJ.'s  into  the  slit  in 
Humpty  Dumpty's  back.  Embroidery  trans- 
fer, directions.  25^ 

712 — Just  four  patches,  repeated,  make  this 
lovely  design  in  a  sunburst  of  color.  Charts, 
directions,  pattern  of  the  four  patches.  Yard- 
ages  for   single   and   double-bed   quilts.   254 

557 — Start  your  gift-making  early.  This  9- 
inch  dolly  and  complete  wardrobe  will  thrill 
the  heart  of  any  little  girl.  Transfer  of  dolly 
and  patterns  for  all  the  clothes.  25<J 

7281 — Cross-stitch  motifs  for  kitchen  towels. 
Quick  to  do.  Let  these  gay  designs  brighten 
your  whole  kitchen.  Transfer  of  6  motifs, 
each  about  5%  x  ll/2   inches.  25<? 


88 


7348 — Unusual  centerpiece  to  fill  with  flow- 
ers. Use  just  one,  or  make  a  pair  of  these 
pretty  doves.  Crochet  directions  for  10-inch 
centerpiece  in  heavy  4-ply  jiffy  cotton.  Starch 
stiffly.  25c1 


7331 — New  rugs  from  old  rags!  Instructions 
for  weaving,  braiding,  hooking,  crocheting. 
Directions,  patterns,  list  of  materials  needed 
for  making  nine  different  rugs.  25^ 


7020 — Graceful  medallions  bordered  with 
lacy  shell  stitches  make  this  lovely  TV  cover 
or  doily.  Easy  to  crochet,  but  so  different  and 
effective.  Directions  for  22-inch  cover  in 
No.  30  cotton;  smaller  in  No.  50;  larger  in 
string.  25tf 


? 


Send  twenty-five  cents  (in  coin)  for  each  pattern  to:  TV  Radio  Mirror,  Needlecraft  Service,  P.O.  Box  137,  Old  Chelsea  Station, 
New  York  11,  New  York.  Add  five  cents  for  each  pattern  for  first-class  mailing.  Send1  an  additional  25c1  for  our  Needlework  Catalog. 


Aie  You  Giving  Your  Wife  The 
Companionship  She  Craves? 


EACH  DAILY  C.  F.  CAPSULE  CONTAINS: 


Choline 

Bitartrate     31.4  nig. 
Inositol  15  mg. 

dl-Methionine     10  mg. 
Vitamin  A 

12.500  USP  Units 
Vitamin  D 

1.000  USP  Units 
Vitamin  C  75  mg. 

Vitamin  Bi  5  mg. 


Vitamin  Bo 
Vitamin  B„ 
Vitamin  B12 
Niacin  Amide 
Calcium 

Pantothenate 
Vitamin  E 
Folic  Acid 
Calcium 
Phosphorus 


dO  mg. 

0.04  mg. 

0.45  mg. 

0.5  mg. 

0.1  mg. 

0.075  mg. 

2  mg. 

0.5  mg. 

3mg. 


COMPARE  THIS  FORMULA 


Help  yourself 

or  someone 

you  love 

to  new  health 

and  happiness! 

Afoff  Coupon  Now 


WM 


YOU  may  be  giving  your  wife  all  the  love  and  care  you 
are  able  to.  You  may  have  given  her  a  good  home, 
security,  many  of  the  conveniences  all  women  yearn  for. 
But  is  she  completely  satisfied?  Are  you  giving  her  what 
she  most  expected  on  the  day  that  you  married  her?  Are 
you  giving  her  the  full  companionship  of  the  man  she  loves? 

Or  are  you  always  "too  tired"  at  the  end  of  a  day's 
work?  Doyou  come  home  from  work  with  only  the  "left- 
overs" of  "your  vitality  for  your  wife  and  family?  Is  time 
catching  up  with  you  too  fast  ...  at  work,  at  play? 

If  so,  your  condition  may  simply  be  due  to  a  common 
vitamin  and  mineral  deficiency  in  your  diet.  Yes,  you  may 
be  well-fed,  but  poorly  nourished.  The  food  you  eat  may 
just  not  contain  the  necessary  amounts  of  vitamins  and 
minerals  to  keep  you  healthy  and  vigorous.  You  owe  it  to 
yourself  to  find  out  whether  a  food  supplement  such  as 
VITASAFE  capsules  can  restore  the  youthful  feeling  you'd 
like  to  have.  And  you  can  find  out  at  absolutely  no  cost  by 
taking  advantage  of  this  sensational  free  offer! 

30  DAYS 
SUPPLY 

CAPSULES 

LIPOTROPIC  FACTORS,  MINERALS  and  VITAMINS 

You  pay  only  25<t  to  help  cover  postage  and 
shipping  expense  to  anywhere  in  the  U.S.A. 
Safe   Nutritional   Formula   Containing   25   Proven   Ingredients:   Choline,  Inositol,  Methionine, 
11    Vitamins  (Including  Blood-Building  B-12  and  Folic  Acid)  Plus  11  Minerals. 


HIGH 
POTENCY 


■v:yv:m$fi 


300-1 


•  VITASAFE  CORP. 

•  43  West  61st  St.,  New  York  23,  N.  Y. 

•  Please  send  me  free  a  30-day  supply  of  the  proven 
,  VITASAFE    CF    (Comprehensive    Formula)     Cap- 
sules,  under   your  money-saving   plan.   I   am  not 

•  under  any  obligation  to  buy  additional  vitamins, 
<  and   after  trying   my  free  sample  supply,   I   may 

accept  the  monthly  benefits  and  substantial  sav- 
ings offered  by  the  VITASAFE  Plan,  or  if  not  fully 

•  satisfied  will  reject  them  simply  by  returning  the 

•  postcard   provided   with   my   free   supply.    In   any 
case,   the  trial  month's  supply  of   30  VITASAFE 

•  Capsules  is  mine  to  use  free. 

•  I  ENCLOSE  1%i  tor  pocking  and  postage. 
• 

.  Name „ 

Address 

•  City Zone State 

•  Offer  limited  to  those  who  have  never  taken  ad- 

•  vantage  of  It.  Only  one  trial  supply  per  family. 
•]      IN  CANADA:  223  Church  St.,  Toronto  2,  Ont. 

.1  Canadian  Formula  adjusted  to  local  conditions. 


TO  prove  to  you  the  re- 
markable advantages 
of  the  Vitasafe  Plan . . . 
we  will  send  you,  with- 
out charge,  a  30-day 
I  free  supply  of  high- 
1  potency  VITASAFE 
1  CF.  CAPSULES  so  you 
I  can  discover  for  your- 
self how  much  health- 
ier, happier  and  peppier 
you  may  feel  alter  a  few  days'  trial!  Just 
one  of  these  capsules  each  day  supplies  your 
body  with  over  twice  the  minimum  adult 
daily  requirements  of  Vitamins  A,  C  and  D 
. . .  five  times  the  minimum  adult  daily  re- 
quirement of  Vitamin  B-l  and  the  full  con- 
centration recommended  by  the  National  Re- 
search Council  for  the  other  four  important 
vitamins!  Each  capsule  contains  the  amaz- 
ing Vitamin  B-12  —  one  of  the  most  remark- 
ably potent  nutrients  science  has  yet  discov- 
ered—a vitamin  that  actually  helps  strength- 
en your  blood  and  nourish  your  body  organs. 

POTENCY  AND  PURITY  GUARANTEED 

There  is  no  mystery  to  vitamin  potency. 
As  you  probably  know,  the  U.S.  Government 
strictly  controls  each  vitamin  manufacturer 
and  requires  the  exact  quantity  of  each  vita- 
min and  mineral  to  be  clearly  stated  on  the 
label.  This  means  that  the  purity  of  each 
ingredient,  and  the  sanitary  conditions  of 
manufacture  are  carefully  controlled  for 
your  protection!  And  it  means  that  when 
you  use  VITASAFE  CF.  CAPSULES  you 
can  be  sure  you're  getting  exactly  what  the 
label  states  .  .  .  and  that  you're  getting  pure 
ingredients  whose  beneficial  effects  have 
been  proven  time  and  time  again ! 

WHY  WE  WANT  YOU  TO  TRY 

A  30-DAY  SUPPLY -FREE! 

We  offer  you  this  30-day  free  trial  of  val- 
uable VITASAFE  CF.  CAPSULES  for  just 


one  reason.  So  many  persons  have  already 
tried  them  with  such  astounding  results  .  . 
so  many  people  have  written  in  telling  us 
how  much  better  they  felt  after  only  a  short 
trial  .  .  .  that  we  are  absolutely  convinced 
that  you,  too,  may  experience  the  same  feel- 
ing of  health  and  well-being  after  a  similar 
trial.  In  fact,  we're  so  convinced  that  we're 
willing  to  back  up  our  convictions  with  our 
own  money.  You  don't  spend  a  penny  for 
the  vitamins!  All  the  cost  and  all  the  risk 
are  ours.  A  month's  supply  of  similar  vita- 
min capsules 
would  ordinarily 
cost   $5.00   retail. 


HOW  THE  VITASAFE 
PLAN  OPERATES  TO 
SAVE  YOU  MONEY 

When  you  receive  your 
free  30-day  supply  of  vita- 
mins, you  are  under  no 
obligation. to  buy  anything. 
With  your  vitamins  you 
will  also  receive  a  handy 
postcard.  If  after  taking 
your  free  Vitasafe  capsules 
for  three  weeks  you  are 
not  satisfied  in  every  way, 
simply  return  the  postcard 
and  that  will  end  the  mat- 
ter. Otherwise,  it's  up  to 
us— you  don't  have  to  do 
a  thing— and  we  will  see 
that  you  get  your  monthly 
supplies  of  vitamins  on 
time  for  as  long  as  you 
wish,  at  the  low,  money- 
saving  price  of  only  $2.78 
per  month. 


AMAZING  PLAN  CUTS 

VITAMIN  PRICES 

ALMOST  IN  HALF! 

With  your  free 
vitamins  you  will 
also  receive  com- 
plete details  re- 
garding the  bene- 
fits of  an  amazing 
new  plan  that  pro- 
vides you  regular- 
ly with  all  the  vi- 
tamins and  miner- 
als you  will  need. 
This  Plan  actually 
enables  you  to  receive  a  30-day  supply  of  vita- 
mins every  month  regularly,  safely  and  fac- 
tory fresh  for  exactly  $2.78 -or  45%  lower 
than  the  usual  retail  price.  BUT  YOU  DO 
NOT  HAVE  TO  DECIDE  NOW-you  are  un- 
der no  obligation  to  buy 
anything  from  us  what- 
soever. To  get  your  free 
30-day  supply  and  learn  . 
all  about  the  benefits  of  j 
this  amazing  new  Plan, 
be  sure  to  send  us  the 
coupon  today —  the  sup- 
ply is  limited. 


::j 


01957  VITASAFE  CORP.,  43  West  61st  St.,  New  York  23,  N.Y. 


2%  oz  <^/reck/v^em&  &ionhe/ 
8   OZ    BRECK   SHAMPOO 


e  a  u 


B 


R 


/    cTlai 


C 


K 


COMBINATION  OFFER  OF  CREME  RINSE  WITH  BRECK  SHAMPOO 


Each  one  of  the  Three  Breck  Shampoos  - 
for  dry,  oily  or  normal  hair  -  is  now  offered 
in  combination  with  Breck  Creme  Rinse. 
Select  the  Breck  Shampoo  for  your  individual 
hair  condition.  A  Breck  Shampoo  leaves 
your    hair    clean,     fragrant    and     beautiful. 


Breck  Creme  Rinse,  used  after  the  shampoo, 
adds  softness,  lustre  and  manageability  to 
your  hair.  It  makes  combing  and  arranging 
easy.  Breck  Creme  Rinse  is  also  helpful  in 
the  care  of  dry,  brittle  hair.  Enjoy  fragrant 
Breck  Creme  Rinse  after  your  next  shampoo. 


A  ZY2  oz.  bottle  of  Breck  Creme  Rinse  with  a  $1.00  bottle  of  one  of  the  Three  Breck  Shampoos  -  both  for  $1.00  plus  3£  federal  tax. 
Instructions  for  making  a  distinctive  jeweled  mirror  similar  to  the  one  shown  above  are  available  on  request. 

JOHN         H         BRECK         INC         ■         DEPT        A        '         115        DWIGHT        STREET         ■        SPRINGFIELD         •        MASSACHUSETTS 

Copyright  1957  by  John  H.  Breck  Inc. 


RADIO 
MIRROR 


DIO  MIRROR  •  oct. 
CCLUSIVE 

PAY-TV 

What  It  Means 

to  You 

• 

V  and  RADIO 

orecast  for  Fall 

• 

I  Color  Picture  of 
ILLY  GRAHAM 


Jack  Linkletter 


#N» 


Raymond  Burr 
The  New  Perry  Mason 


!Wf  *;      ^ 

vV                PiT% 

IH 

""^•^^       '"     ^     *~  "      ll«J-1[||T|l 

>v  /far 

»  IS-  ■  1     .■'■>.    ' 

re  ■ 

m 

W 1 1 

I 

j 

^LV  1  bP" 

! 

GISELE 

acKENZIE    1 

i            \       4Hli 

1^#\ 

Iks  About 

1                   ^B§         * 

lib 

/  New  Show 

i-  "■■■ 

%-                                                            .  j*«f      -  -*"~ 

S&i  •#! 

1:1      | 

M  - 

HI' 

JmwtfMbKSU  announces  the  perfect 

self- sharpener 
eyebrow 
eye  -liner 


r 


Surprise  Inside!  One  that 
means  far  lovelier  brows  for 
you.  Slide  off  the  cap,  find  a 
foolproof  built-in  crayon 
sharpener!  Of  golden  metal,  it 
won't  jam,  clog  or  break  cray- 
on. Just  a  twist,  and  you  have 
a  point  like  new  every  time. 

Strokes  Finest  Lines  .  .  .  for 

more  natural-looking  brows. 
Now  it's  easy  to  form  delicate, 
fine  hair-lines !  The  effect  is  so 
subtle,  no  one  need  know 
you've   improved   on  nature. 


Adjustable  Crayon  .  .  .  Twirls 
to  the  length  most  suitable  for 
you.  Crayon  won't  fall  out! 
Choice  of  6  subtle  shades  to 
harmonize  with  your  indi- 
vidual coloring.  Velvet  Black, 
Dark  Brown,  Light  Brown, 
Auburn,  Parisian  Grey  and 
the  fabulous  new  Blue-Green. 
Twin  Refills,  43^. 


PREFERRED    BY  SMART  WOMEN  THE  WORLD  OVER 


Crayon 
Refills 


.^S^sT'       ''?:  -■$£<-'''  Precision 

Solid  or  Cream  %■  Tweezers 

Mascara 


A — Expressive  Brows  in  Seconds 

Use  soft,  feathery  strokes  along  the  natural 
arch  of  your  brow.  (Avoid  a  "moon-shape" 
or  hard  straight  line.)  Accent  the  beginning 
of  brow  first:  lift  and  taper  toward  end.  Sof- 
ten the  effect  with  your  fingertip. 

B — Make  Your  Eyes  Appear  Larger 

Do  as  the  models  do — line  your  lids.  It's  easy ! 
With  soft  Maybelline  crayon  draw  a  line  at 
base  of  your  lashes.  Start  with  a  fine  line  near 
inner  corner  of  eye,  broadening  it  as  you  prog- 
ress to  outer  corner.  Finish  with  "up- swoop  " 
If  you  wish,  soften  the  effect  with  fingertip. 
You'll  be  amazed  how  much  larger  and  more 
brilliant  your  eyes  will  appear. 


Jewel-tone 
Iridescent 
Eye  Shadow 
Stick 


Professional  Eyelash  Curler 


(DID  YOU   SEE   POOR   POLLY  ON  TV?) 


Polly  came  home  from  the 

party,  weeping.  ''I  had  the 

most  miserable  time,"  she 

told  her  mother. 


She  had  counted  on  a  wonderful  eve- 
ning .  .  .  but  it  didn't  turn  out  that 
way.  What  good  are  good  looks  if  a 
girl  has  bad  breath? 


Polly  had  depended  on  tooth  paste 
alone.  But  the  most  common  cause  of 
bad  breath  is  germs  in  the  mouth.  No 
tooth  paste  is  antiseptic,  so  .  .  . 


No  tooth  paste  kills  germs  the  way 
Listerine  Antiseptic  does  . .  .  instantly 
. .  .  by  millions. 


..  .^ ...  g 

STOPS  BAD  BREATH 

4  TIMES  BETTER 
THAN  TOOTH  PASTE 


In  fact,  Listerine  kills  every  germ 
found  in  the  mouth — stops  bad  breath 
4  times  better  than  tooth  paste. 


Dances  are  fun  for  Polly  now.  What 
a  difference!  With  Listerine,  a  girl 
gives  her  charm  a  fair  break. 


JLE  STEMIM  JE 

i . .YOUR  NO.  /  PROTECTION 
AGAINST  OFFENDING 


When  "one  of  those 
days"  makes  you 
tense  and  edgy... 


be  a 

charming 
wife 
again 


let 
MILES 

NERVINE 

help  you  relax! 


Such  busy,  busy,  busy  days!  No 
wonder  so  many  modern  wives  and 
mothers  who  occasionally  become 
tense  and  taut  welcome  the  help  of 
miles  nervine  to  feel  calm  and 
relaxed!  Try  miles  nervine,  yourself — 
for  the  gentle  action  that  soothes 
nervous  tension,  helps  you  feel  your 
best  again. 

Ever  too  restless  to  sleep  at  night? 
Then  see  how  miles  nervine 
relaxes  you — lets  you  sleep  in  a  healthy, 
normal  way.  Follow  the  label — 
avoid  excessive  use.  Miles  nervine 
has  a  long  record  of  satisfaction  in 
use.  Sold  at  all  drugstores  in  effervescent 
tablets  and  liquid. 

Soothe  nerves . . 

feel  calm  and  serene  with 

miles8  NERVINE 

At  any  drugstore  . . . 

No  Prescription  Needed! 

Miles  Laboratories,  Inc.,  Elkhart,  Ind. 


TV 


RADIO 
MIRROR 


OCTOBER,    1957 


ATLANTIC   EDITION 


VOL.  48,   NO.   5 


Ann  Mosher,  Editor 
Teresa  Buxton,  Managing  Editor 
Claire  Safran,  Associate  Editor 
Gay  Miyoshi,  Assistant  Editor 


Jack  Zasorin,  Art  Director 
Frances  Maly,  Associate  Art  Director 
Joan  Clarke,  Assistant  Art  Director 
Bud  Goode,  West  Coast  Editor 


PEOPLE  ON  THE  AIR 

What's  New  on  the  East  Coast by  Peter  Abbott  4 

What's  New  on  the  West  Coast by  Bud  Goode  6 

So  You  Want  To  Be  a  Star  (Garry  Moore) 10 

Just  Pat  Buttram 14 

Pay-TV:  What  Does  It  Mean  To  You? by  Helen  Bolstad  17 

Forecast  for  Fall :  NBC 18 


CBS 
ABC 


Who  Could  Ever  Be  Lonely?   (Gisele  MacKenzie) by  Gladys  Hall 

Young  Woman  of  Today  (Helen  O'Connell) by  Frances  Kish 

Jan  Davis:  Talent  Scout by  Martin  Cohen 

Jack  of  Hearts  (Jack  Linkletter) by  Fredda  Balling 

Stand  Up  And  Be  Counted 

Dinner  at  Betsy  Palmer's 

He-Man's  Holiday  (James  Arness) by  Peer  J.  Oppenheimer 

Adopted  Father  (Sherry  Jackson) by  Maurine  Remenih 

Paging  Perry  Mason  (Raymond  Burr) by  Pauline  Townsend 


FEATURES  IN  FULL  COLOR 

Truth — and  Its  Consequences  (Bob  Barker) by  Gordon  Budge 

"The  Best  I  Can  Be"  (Norma  Moore) by  Mary  Temple 

Dreams  Do  Come  True  (Dick  Van  Patten) by  Elizabeth  Ball 

Crusader's  Wife  (Mrs.  Billy  Graham) by  Gregory  Merwin 


20 
22 
24 
26 
28 
36 
42 
46 
48 
50 
54 


32 
34 
38 

40 


YOUR  LOCAL  STATION 

The  Life  He  Loves  (WAVZ) 12 

The  Record  Players:  The  Kid  From  Jersey by  Bill  Mayer  15 

Q.  Marks  the  Hot  Spot  (WABD,  WNEW,  WOR) by  Claire  Safran  58 


YOUR  SPECIAL  SERVICES 

Movies  on  TV 3 

Information  Booth 8 

TV  Radio  Mirror  Goes  to  the  Movies by  Janet  Graves  13 

Telescoping  TV 16B 

Beauty:  A  Beauty  of  a  Cook  (Anne  Burr) by  Harriet  Segman  57 

Vote  for  Your  Favorites  (monthly  Gold  Medal  ballot) 74 

New  Patterns  for  You  (smart  wardrobe  suggestions) 88 

Cover  portrait  of  Gisele  MacKenzie  by  Jay  Seymour  of  Gary   Wagner  Associates 


BUY  YOUR  NOVEMBER  ISSUE  EARLY  •  ON  SALE  OCTOBER  3 


_fc  PUBLISHED       MONTHLY      by      Macfadden 

-x1     °  *       Publications,    Inc.,    New    York,    N.    Y. 

EXECUTIVE.      ADVERTISING      AND      EDI- 
TORIAL    OFFICES      at      205      East      42nd 
'Street,   New   York,    N.    Y.   Editorial   Branch 
.Office,    6269    Selma    Ave.,    Hollywood    28, 
"  Calif.     Irving     S.     Manheimer,     President; 
Lee      Andrews,      Vice      President;       Meyer 
*"(/lO"      Dworkin,    Secretary  and  Treasurer.   Adver- 
tising offices   also    in   Chicago,    221    North 
LaSalle   Street,    and    San   Francisco. 

SUBSCRIPTION  RATES:  $3.00  one  year,  U.  S.  and 
Possessions  and  Canada.  $5.00  per  year  for  all  other 
countries. 

CHANGE  OF  ADDRESS:  6  weeks*  notice  essential. 
When  possible,  please  furnish  stencil  impression  ad- 
dress from  a  recent  issue.  Address  changes  can  be 
made  only  if  you  send  us  your  old,  as  well  as  your 
new  address.  Write  to  TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East 
42nd  Street,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 
MANUSCRIPTS:    All   manuscripts  will  be  carefully  con- 


sidered, but  publisher  cannot  be  responsible  for  loss  or 
damage.  It  is  advisable  to  keep  a  duplicate  copy  for 
your  records.  Only  those  manuscripts  accompanied  by 
stamped,  self-addressed  return  envelopes  or  with  suffi- 
cien*  return  postage  will  be  returned. 

FOREIGN  editions  handled  through  Macfadden  Publi- 
cations International  Corp.,  205  East  42nd  Street,  New 
York  17,  N.  Y.  Irving  S.  Manheimer,  President;  Doug- 
Ins  Loc^hart,    Vice  President. 

RE-ENTERED  as  Second-Class  Matter,  June  28,  1954. 
at  the  Post  Office  at  New  York,  N.  Y..  under  the  Act  of 
March  3,  1879.  Authorized  as  Second  Class  mail,  P.O. 
Dept.,  Ottawa,  Ont. ,  Canada.  Copyright  1957  by  Mac- 
fadden Publications,  Inc.  All  rights  reserved  under  In- 
ternational Copyright  Convention.  All  rights  reserved 
under  Pan-American  Copyright  Convention.  Todos  de- 
rechos  reservados  segun  la  Convencion  Pan-Americana 
de  Propiedad  Literaria  y  Artistica.  Title  trademark 
registered  in  U.S.  Patent  Office.  Printed  in  U.  S.  A. 
by  Art  Color  Printing  Company. 

Member  of  the  TRUE  STORY  Women's   Group. 


Showing  this  month 


DEAD  RECKONING  (Columbia)  :  Good, 
tough  thriller  in  the  old-style  Bogart  man- 
ner. As  a  War  II  vet,  Bogie  investigates 
the  mysterious  disappearance  of  a  buddy, 
runs  afoul  of  Liz  Scott. 

DRUMS     ALONG      THE      MOHAWK 

(20th)  :  Realistic,  exciting  saga  of  pioneers 
fighting  Indians  in  upstate  New  York,  dur- 
ing the  Revolution.  Henry  Fonda,  Claud- 
ette  Colbert  are  a  courageous  farm  couple. 

HE  WALKED  BY  NIGHT  (Eagle  Lion) : 
Matter-of-fact  crime  melodrama,  with  ex- 
pert actor  Richard  Basehart  as  a  crook  who 
uses  electronics  knowledge  to  outwit  L.  A. 
cops — until    Scott    Brady    gets    after    him. 

HIGHER  AND  HIGHER  (RKO)  :  Sina- 
tra's debut  film,  with  Rodgers-Hart  score. 
He's  a  rich  boy  chased  by  Michele  Morgan, 
serving  girl  disguised  as  heiress.  The  Hart- 
mans   and   Victor   Borge   add   to    the    fun. 

HOLY  MATRIMONY  (20th):  Perfectly 
delightful,  delicately  handled  whimsy. 
Painter  Monty  Woolley  hates  fame,  weeps 
at  "his  own"  funeral  when  his  valet  is 
buried  under  his  name.  Then  Monty  mar- 
ries Gracie  Fields — and  trouble  starts. 

JANE  EYRE  (20th):  Elegantly  moody 
version  of  the  classic  novel,  with  Orson 
Welles  as  the  strange  master  of  the  house- 
hold where  shy  Joan  Fontaine  reports  as 
governess.  Peggy  Ann  Garner  and  Margaret 
O'Brien,  then  children,  score. 

MAGNIFICENT    AMBERSONS,     THE 

(RKO)  :  Unusual,  fascinating  story  of  a 
wealthy  family's  decline  in  last  century's 
Midwest,  directed  by  Orson  Welles.  Joseph 
Cotten,   Anne   Baxter   head   a    fine   cast. 

MAN  WITH  MY  FACE,  THE  (U.  A.) : 

Barry  Nelson  fans  get  double  measure,  as 
he  plays  an  honest  war  veteran — and  his 
look-alike,  who  takes  over  his  home  and 
wife  (Lynn  Ainley),  with  crooked  intent. 
Authentic   Puerto   Rican  backgrounds. 

MELBA  (U.  A.)  :  Patrice  Munsel's  lyrical 
voice  and  refreshingly  natural  manner 
spark  up  the  true  story  of  one  of  opera's 
greats.  As  Nellie  Melba,  she  goes  from  an 
Australian  ranch  to  word-wide  fame — and 
heartbreak. 

ROAD  HOUSE  (20th):  Memento  from 
Richard  Widmark's  bad-guy  era,  this  sus- 
pense item  features  other  appealing  per- 
formers: Cornel  Wilde,  as  Dick's  partner- 
pal;  Ida  Lupino,  singer  who  comes  to  work 
at   their   joint   and   sets   off   the   fireworks. 

STANLEY  AND  LIVINGSTONE  (20th) : 
Reserved,  touching  account  of  a  real  19th 
Century  adventure.  Spencer  Tracy  does  a 
first-rate  job  as  the  American  newsman 
who  tracks  a  "lost"  missionary  in  Africa. 

SUN  VALLEY  SERENADE  (20th)  : 
Glenn  Miller's  sweet  swing,  Sonja  Henie's 
ice-skating,  Milton  Berle's  clowning — find 
them  all  in  the  easygoing  musical  that 
introduced    "Chattanooga    Choo-Choo." 

TALK  OF  THE  TOWN  (Columbia): 
Slick,  meaningful  comedy  casts  Ronald 
Colman  as  a  serious  lawyer  and  Supreme 
Court  candidate,  Cary  Grant  as  a  liberal 
framed  for  murder,  Jean  Arthur  as  the  girl. 


More  grown-ups  and  growing-ups 

depend  on  Mum  than  on  any  other  deodorant 


PRODUCT  OF    BRISTOL-MYERS 


New 


'  mm/ 


stops  odor... 
without  irritation 


So  gentle  for  any  normal  skin  you  can  use  it  every  day 


If  you've  ever  worried  about  under- 
arm stinging  or  burning  from  using 
a  deodorant  daily— or  right  after  shav- 
ing or  a  hot  bath— you  can  set  your 
mind  at  ease.  New  Mum  Cream  is  so 
gentle  for  normal  skin,  you  can  use 
it  whenever  you  please. 

Mum  Cream  gives  you  the  kind 
of  protection  you  can't  possibly  get 
from  any  other  leading  deodorant— 
because  it  works  a  completely  differ- 
ent way.  Mum  Cream  is  the  only 
leading    deodorant   that   works    en- 


tirely by  stopping  odor  . . .  contains 
no  astringent  aluminum  salts.  And  it 
keeps  on  working  actively  to  stop 
odor  24  hours  a  day  with  M-3  — 
Mum's  wonderful  hexachlorophene 
that  destroys  both  odor  and  odor- 
causing  bacteria!  When  Mum  is  so 
effective  —  yet  so  gentle  — isn't  it  the 
deodorant  for  you?  Try  new  Mum 
Cream  today. 


MUM®  contains  M-3  ffiSSSffi?) 

...stops  odor  24  hours  a  day 


WHAT'S  NEW  ON  THE  EAST  COAST 


By  PETER  ABBOTT 


On  High-Low,  prof  John  Van  Doren 
made  his  TV  debut;  Patricia  Medina 
showed  up  as  a  trans-Atlantic  "pro." 


For  What's  New   On 
The  West  Coast,  See  Page  S 


When  the  McGuires  couldn't  sing,  there  was  a  howl  in  Oklahoma  City,  Says 
Murray  Kane,  who  manages  Chris,   Phil,  Dot:  "The  people  ...  were  for  us." 


Dig  Me  Gently:  Sal  Mineo,  Bronx's 
gift  to  TV,  is  regularly  dating  a 
Manhattan  steno.  .  .  .  The  new  NBC 
show  started  mid-August  by  Arlene 
Francis  features  a  new  TV  gismo 
called  "Cross  My  Heart,"  a  cross- 
word puzzle  game  for  studio  and 
home  viewers,  with  daily  prizes.  .  .  . 
Sexy  Rexy  Harrison's  new  wife, 
Kay  Kendall,  has  all  three  networks 
bidding  for  her  services.  She's  a  ter- 
rific all-around  performer.  .  .  .  Ed 
Wynn  has  contracted  for  three  ap- 
pearances on  Ed  Sullivan's  Show 
this  season.  .  .  .  Now  that  summer  is 
over,  singers  go  off  starvation  wages; 
now  a  guest-star  spot  is  worth  $7,- 
500 — same  performance  draws  a 
measly  $5,000  in  summer.  .  .  .  And 
this  could  be  called  fighting  fire  with 
fire:  The  proposal  that  Jayne  Mans- 
field co-star  with  Elvis  in  a  spectacu- 
lar. .  .  .  Everyone  happy  Mrs.  Steve 
Allen  (Jayne  Meadows)  is  getting 
along  so  well  in  her  second  preg- 
nancy. The  blessed  event  is  sched- 
uled for  October  and  both  Steve 
and  Jayne  are  hoping  for  a  girl. 
Steve  already  has  three  boys  by  his 
first  marriage.  .  .  .  Funniest  record  of 
year  comes,  naturally  enough,  from 
Spike    Jones.    The    Verve    label    is 


titled,  "Dinner  Music  for  People 
Who  Aren't  Very  Hungry."  Selec- 
tions include,  "Duet  for  Violin  and 
Garbage  Disposal,"  "Brahms'  Alibi," 
and  "Wyatt  Earp  Makes  Me  Burp." 

Highbrows  on   High-Low:   As  we 

go  to  press,  they're  still  looking  for 
a  time  spot  for  the  summer  season's 
new  quiz,  High-how.  One  of  its 
panelists,  John  Van  Doren,  is  turn- 
ing out  to  be  TV's  most  bashful  ex- 
pert. John's  Other  Job  is  at  Bran- 
deis  University,  where  he  lectures. 
John's  Other  Brother  is,  natch, 
Charles  Van  Doren.  Says  John, 
"Charles  talked  me  into  taking  the 
job  and  said  I  should  think  of  it  as 
an  exciting  adventure."  Charles  is 
thirty,  an  extrovert;  John  is  twenty- 
seven,  an  introvert.  Therapeutically, 
the  TV  job  should  be  good  for  him. 
He  says,  "First  I  became  accustomed 
to  being  identified  as  my  father's 
son  or  my  uncle's  nephew.  Then  it 
was  as  Charles's  brother."  Now  he's 
got  a  chance  to  make  it  on  his  own 
....  Another  highbrow  is  lovely, 
nervous  Patricia  Medina.  She  has 
a  standing  invitation  to  be  a  panelist 
when  not  occupied  with  movie- 
making,   for    Patricia   Medinas    are 


On  television,  Phil  Silvers  may  be  a  veteran  sergeant.  Off  camera,  he's  a 
husband,  first-class,  to  Evelyn  and  rookie  dad  to  newborn  Tracey  Edith. 


The  world  of  music  is  comparing   Eydie 
Gorme  to   Miss   Show    Business,    herself. 


hard  to  come  by.  There  are  few 
beautiful  dames  with  brains  to 
match.  Pattie  is  known  for  both  in 
her  native  England.  There  she  was 
on  the  British  version  of  What's  My 
Line?  and  there  the  game  is  played 
very  seriously.  And  Pattie  was  just 
as  nervous.  Daughter  of  a  London 
barrister,  her  brilliance,  was  first 
noted  when  she  was  graduated  with 
highest  honors  from  the  equivalent 
of  high  school  at  fourteen.  She 
immediately  began  reading  for 
entrance  into  medical  school.  A  ner- 
vous breakdown  at  sixteen  rechan- 
neled  her  ambition  into  acting  and 
work  on  TV. 

Short  &  Sassy:  Barbara  Hall, 
$64,000  winner,  is  dating  regularly 
with  a  commercial  pilot  for  a  French 
line.  .  .  .  Sonny  James'  new  disc  for 
Capitol,  "Lovesick  Blues,"  surgin' 
upward.  And  Sonny  knows  about 
"lovesick  blues,"  for  he  doesn't  get 
to  see  his  true  love  more  than  a  half- 
dozen  times  a  year.  .  .  .  Oh,  my  achin' 
ears — when  the  new  season  gets 
full-blown  there  will  be  a  total  of 
40  Westerns  on  TV.  .  .  .  Andree  Wal- 
lace, the  menace  (Cynthia)  on 
Helen    Trent,    will    be    having    her 


third  any  day  now.  Already  has  a 
boy  and  girl.  .  .  .  Jay  Barney,  Kurt 
Bonine  on  same  serial,  contributes 
his  vacation  to  national  defense.  A 
reserve  officer,  he  takes  on  a  tour 
of  duty  at  Fort  Monmouth.  ...  A 
Guy  Mitchell  intimate  explains, 
"When  Guy  relaxes,  he  is  full  of 
energy  and  drive.  It's  when  he's 
tense  that  he  acts  like  Como."  .  .  . 
Singer  Mindy  Carson  flies  to  Lon- 
don to  do  a  spec  on  BBC.  Mindy, 
studying  acting,  hopes  to  build  a 
whole  career  in  musical  comedy 
for  TV  and  Broadway.  .  .  .  Robert 
Q.  Lewis  worried  himself  needlessly. 
That  neck  growth  was  non-malig- 
nant, which  he  learned  after  a  week 
in  the  hospital.  Bob  takes  two  weeks 
or  so  in  Europe  this  month  to  play. 
.  .  .  When  you  see  an  actor  identi- 
fied as  Larry  Hagman  on  a  TV 
drama,  you'll  be  watching  Mary 
Martin's  son.  .  .  .  And  how  about 
this?  American  Theater  Wing,  a 
cultural  center,  has  a  course  for 
dramatic  students,  in  TV  and  radio 
commercials. 

What  Really  Happened:  There 
was  a  big  fuss  in  the  papers  about 
the  McGuire  Sisters.  Some  of  it  not 


so  nice.  The  girls  were  to  sing  a 
week  at  the  fair  in  Oklahoma  City 
and  Chris  was  accused  of  running 
out  and  nasty  things  were  said 
publicly.  What  really  happened?  A 
few  days  earlier,  Chris  had  been  in 
bed  with  a  fever  and  missed  a 
night's  work  at  Lake  Tahoe.  By  the 
end  of  the  week,  she  felt  so  awful 
she  flew  all  the  way  to  New  York 
to  consult  her  own  doctor.  It  was  a 
very  bad  strep  throat.  She  didn't  get 
back  to  Oklahoma  City  until  Tues- 
day. She  insisted  she  would  work, 
although  the  doctor  said  she 
shouldn't.  But,  by  then,  the  exposi- 
tion people  were  threatening  to  sue. 
Then  a  prominent  Oklahoma  doctor 
made  an  examination  and  confirmed 
Chris's  condition.  Finally,  on  Thurs- 
day, the  girls  were  allowed  to  sing 
and  at  the  same  time  the  committee 
issued  a  signed  statement  exoner- 
ating Chris  as  an  adult  delinquent. 
Murray  Kane,  the  gals'  mgr.,  says, 
"It  was  an  unpleasant  situation,  ex- 
cept that  all  the  time  we  had  the 
knowledge  that  the  people  we  met 
on  the  streets  were  for  us."  .  .  . 
While  not  so  far  west,  the  word  was 
out  in  Chicago  that  Dennis  James 
and  Club  60  (Continued  on  page  9) 


WHAT'S  NEW  ON  THE  WEST  COAST 


He  has  scrapped  in  night  clubs  and  other  places,   but, 
now  he's  at  work  at  ABC-TV,  Sinatra's  motto  is  "Smile." 


Women  are  a  puzzlement  to  both  these  fishing  pals,  though 
Hugh  O'Brian's  a  bachelor,  John  Lupton  a  husband  and  dad 


By  BUD  GOODE 


Warming  up  for  laughs  on  her  fall  TV  series,  Eve  Arden  and  her  family 
clowned  through  Yosemite  vacation.  Young  Connie's  "top  banana"  here. 

For  What's  New  On  The  East  Coast,  See  Page  4 


The  Three  R's :  Lawrence  Welk's  new 
clarinetist,  goateed  Pete  Fountain, 
picked  up  his  music  in  New  Orleans 
and,  in  jazz-style,  never  learned  to 
read  notes.  He  now  sits-in  every  day 
at  CBS -Television  City  with  Bob 
Crosby's  Bobcats,  who  are  teaching 
him  how  to  read.  Music,  that  is.  .  .  . 
Newcomer  to  ABC,  Frank  Sinatra, 
likes  the  people  around  him  to  smile, 
even  if  the  grins  have  to  be  painted 
on.  Frank  believes,  apparently,  that 
with  sour  faces  the  battle  is  half  lost 
(not  too  bad  a  philosophy).  Inciden- 
tal note:  His  office  is  painted  in  com- 
bination bright  reds  and  other  happy 
colors.  It  would  look  just  right  for 
color  TV.  Sinatra,  going  into  TV  with 
a  heavy-artillery  attitude,  has  hired 
the  highest-paid  talent.  Writer  Bill 
Morrow,  for  example,  used  to  be  with 
the  fabulous  Bing  Crosby  on  radio. 
Sinatra  tells  an  old  story  about  Mor- 
row and  Crosby,  hunting  and  fishing 
devotees.  Bing  and  Bill  came  straight 
off  a  Sierra  safari  to  a  CBS  radio 
studio  for  a  show  to  be  produced 
within  the  hour,  but  not  yet  written. 
Morrow  sat  down  at  a  typewriter  and, 
ten  minutes  later,  had  two  pages  of 
script  completed.  Looking  at  his  watch, 
Bing  said  that  at  this  rate  they 
wouldn't  get  on  the  air.  He  pulled 
up  another  typewriter  and  started 
hacking  away.  After  fifteen  minutes 
more,  Bing  exclaimed,  "Look  I've 
written    four    pages,    Morrow's    only 


Visiting  Rome,  the  Skeltons — Red,  his  wife  Georgia  and 
their  children  Richard  and  Valentino — found  new  courage. 


Bachelor  girl  and  guy,  Betty  White  and  Michael  Ansara 
foiled  a  would-be  Cupid  by  simply  swapping  autographs. 


written  three!' 
can  type? 


We  wonder  if  Sinatra 


The  Children's  Hour:  Co-star  on 
Perry  Mason,  Barbara  Hale,  enter- 
tained home -town  guests,  John  and 
Marsha  Holmstrom,  for  a  few  days 
recently.  She  invited  a  few  of  their 
old  school  friends  for  an  afternoon's 
catching-up  session,  "I  made  the  mis- 
take," says  Barbara,  "of  telling  them 
to  bring  their  kids.  Marsha  had  two 
of  her  five  with  her,  our  three  were 
home  and  the  six  other  gals  brought 
17  more.  We  girls  were  trying  to  talk 
about  our  personal  lives  while  22  In- 
dians howled  around  us.  The  after- 
noon's conversation  ran  something 
like  'Get  off  that  .  .  .'  'Don't  do  that 
.  .  .'  and  'Be  careful.'  I'm  afraid  we 
didn't  get  much  gossiping  done."  . . . 
John  Lupton,  talking  about  Rollin, 
his  six-month-old  daughter,  says 
she's  already  getting  coy.  "Acts  just 
like  a  woman,"  muses  John.  "What 
worries  me  is,  if  she's  so  wise  already, 
what  will  she  be  like  at  eighteen?" 
John  and  his  wife  Anne  are  avid  Dr. 
Spock  and  Menninger  readers,  be- 
lieve in  loads  of  love  and  affection 
for  their  baby;  don't  believe  in  baby- 
talk.  But  then  "goo-goo's"  aren't 
much  in  character  for  Indian  Agent 
Tom  Jeffords  of  Broken  Arrow.  .  .  . 
Gale  Storm  and  Mitzi  Green,  two 
mothers  of  Encino's  Little  Leagu- 
ers, joined  with  aH  the  other  moms 


in  a  baseball  game — The  Encino 
Cardinals  (also  known  as  the  Varga 
Chicks)  versus  the  Petty  Girls.  The 
mothers  were  to  wear  their  sons' 
uniforms,  with  sashes  at  their  waists 
and  flowers  on  the  baseball  caps. 
Petite  Gale  could  get  into  12-year- 
old  Peter's  complete  outfit,  but  some 
of  the  other  mothers  couldn't  quite 
make  it.  Gale  seems  to  be  having 
a  hard  time  gaining  weight,  following 
the  birth  of  her  fourth  child,  Susanna. 
Her  doctor  wants  her  to  come  into  the 
hospital  for  a  complete  rest  before 
she  begins  filming  her  fall  series.  Un- 
fortunately, energetic  Gale's  a  gal 
who  can't  sit  still. 

Who's  Traveling:  This  summer, 
the  Lennon  Sisters  have  flown  from 
Oregon  to  Montana  to  Ohio  to  Texas 
and  home  to  California.  Oldest  sister, 
Dianne,  isn't  too  crazy  about  flying; 
16-year-old  Peggy  doesn't  mind  it; 
13-year-old  Kathy  likes  it;  and  11- 
year-old  Janet  loves  it.  On  two  of 
the  trips,  the  hostesses  let  the  girls 
co-host  with  them,  donning  their  caps 
and  serving  lunch.  On  one  trip,  the 
airline  was  tipped  off  in  advance 
of  Janet's  birthday  and  prepared  a 
big,  delicious  angelfood  cake.  Janet 
came  home  to  tell  her  mother,  "Mom- 
my, if  that's  flying,  I'm  for  it."  .  .  . 
ABC's  Betty  White  and  co-star  Bill 
Williams  are  preparing  a  22-city 
tour  to  introduce  the  new  Plymouth 


(their  sponsor  on  Date  With  The 
Angels)  to  dealers  across  the  country. 
Since  Bill  doesn't  fly,  he'll  drive  to 
five  West  Coast  cities,  and  Betty  will 
hop  to  all  17  via  the  air.  Incidentally, 
when  press  agents  tried  to  stir  up  a 
romance  between  Betty  and  Michael 
Ansara,  the  pair  simply  laughed,  went 
on  a  "date"  and,  having  become  good 
friends,  they  exchanged  autographs 
for  young  relatives.  .  .  .  The  Mouse - 
keteers  have  completed  filming  their 
1958  series  and  most  of  them  are  off 
on  a  vacation.  Meanwhile,  back  at 
the  Disney  ranch,  there  are  still  a  few 
hard  at  work  on  a  feature-length, 
color  motion  picture  based  on  the 
Wizard  of  Oz  stories.  Title:  "Rainbow 
Road  to  Oz."  "Oz"  will  star  Jimmie 
Dodd,  Annette  Funicello,  Tommy 
Kirk,  Bobby  Burgess  and  Darlene 
Gillespie.  For  these  kids,  living  in 
the  wonderful  land  of  "Oz"  is  as  much 
fun  as  a  vacation. 

Did  You  Know:  Michael  Ansara, 
"Cochise"  of  ABC's  Broken  Arrow, 
was  once  a  Los  Angeles  City  College 
medical  student.  .  .  .  Hugh  Wyatt 
Earp  O'Brian  was  a  Los  Angeles 
City  College  student  body  president. 
.  .  .  The  Lennon  Sisters'  family, 
prior  to  the  girls'  stardom,  made 
tamales  at  home,  sold  them,  while  dad 
was  a  milkman.  .  .  .  The  average  Law- 
rence Welk  bandsman  earns  $20,000 
per    year.     (Continued    on    page    16) 


information  booth 


Four  to  Make  Ready 

We  would  like  some  information  on  The 
Four  Preps,  recently  seen  on  The  Ford 
Show. 

S.  J.  A.  and  S.  F.  J.,  Spokane,  Wash. 

While  their  li'l  ol'  saucers  fly  eastward 
on  the  wings  of  Capitol  Records,  The  Four 
Preps,  in  person,  are  busy  getting  very  well 
known  around  their  Southern  California 
neighborhood.  Ever  since  they  met  a  few 
years  ago  at  Hollywood  High  and  got  off 
on  the  harmony  kick,  they've  been  on  the 
lookout  for  all  the  experience  they  could 
get.  Private  parties,  hotel  engagements, 
school  dances,  have  all  been  valuable  grist 
for  the  mill  of  their  show-business  know- 
how.  Recently,  with  a  singing-comedy  act 
well  broken-in,  they  backed  Ricky  Nelson 
for  his  first  high-school  performance  fol- 
lowing his  recording  contract.  The  quartet 
are:  Marvin  Inabett,  18,  tenor,  and  student 
at  U.C.L.A.;  Bruce  Belland,  19,  lead  tenor, 
also  a  student  at  U.C.L.A.  (Westwood)  ; 
Glen  Larson,  19,  baritone,  and  page  at 
NBC  in  Hollywood;  Ed  Cobb,  18,  bass 
chanter,  and  Los  Angeles  City  College 
man.  "Dreamy  Eyes"  is  their  recent  well- 
known  disc,  backed  by  "Fools  Will  Be 
Fools." 

Still  Raining  in  Spain 

Could  you  tell  me  something  about  Ed- 
ward Mulhare,  who  had  the  lead  in  "Eight 
Feet  to  Midnight"  on  CBS-TV's  Studio 
One? 

G.  M.,  Buffalo,  N.  Y. 

When  Irish-born  Edward  Mulhare  final- 
ly got  to  explain  the  phonetic  niceties  of 
"rain  in  Spain"  to  the  little  Cockney  flower- 


seller,  it  was  after  a  long  battle  waged  for 
his  option  by  "My  Fair  Lady"  producer, 
Herman  Levin.  Actors'  Equity  Association 
had  ruled  the  tall  bachelor  would  not  be 
allowed  to  play  "Professor  Higgins"  on 
Broadway  while  Rex  Harrison  vacationed 
from  the  role,  because  he  is  neither  "a 
U.  S.  citizen,  a  Canadian  citizen,  nor  a  res- 
ident alien."  Levin  threatened  to  close  the 
most  fabulously  successful  musical  in 
American  history,  if  Equity  would  not  per- 
mit Mulhare  to  go  on.  The  Association 
relented  when  Mulhare  was  granted  the 
saving  grace  of  "star  status"  as  a  result  of 
his  TV  and  movie  work,  already  highly 
reputed  in  this  country.  ...  A  native  of 
Dublin,  Edward  was  19  when  he  won  his 
first  roles  at  the  Cork  Opera  House.  But 
he  went  back  to  school  for  a  while,  just 
to  be  absolutely  certain  of  his  decision. 
After  a  fling  at  medicine,  he  joined  the 
Dublin  Theater  Guild  and  played  Bill 
Walker  in  "Major  Barbara"  and  Horace 
Giddens  in  "The  Little  Foxes."  His  first 
appearance  in  England  was  with  an  ENSA 
unit  in  "Rebecca."  In  1951,  he  became  the 
leading  man  of  the  Liverpool  Repertory 
Company,  where  Rex  Harrison  got  his 
early  experience.  The  same  year  he  was 
Lodovico  in  an  Olivier  production  of 
"Othello."  Several  important  repertory 
roles  followed,  after  which  he  was  cast  in 
the  Israeli  film.  "Hill  24  Doesn't  Answer." 
Levin  auditioned  Mulhare  in  London,  and, 
after  the  hard-won  triumph  of  Edward's 
"  'enery  'iggins"  debut  last  winter,  the 
producer  signed  him  to  take  over  the  role 
in  December  for  an  expected  run  of  three 
years.  On  TV,  Mulhare  has  appeared  sev- 
eral times  in  the  British-made  Robin  Hood 
series,  carried  by  CBS-TV,  and  starred, 
last  spring,  in  a  Kraft  Theater   full-hour 


T    The   Four  Preps  are   making   records  that  sell   like   records   are   supposed   to. 
*    Left  to  right,  they  are  Marvin  Inabett,  Bruce  Belland,  Glen  Larson,  Ed  Cobb. 


Star  status  on  TV  solved  Broadway 
problems  for  actor  Edward  Mulhare. 


dramatic  colorcast  and  a  Studio  One  pro- 
duction. "Eight  Feet  to  Midnight."  He  has 
filed,  by  the  way,  for  his  American  citizen- 
ship and  doesn't  anticipate  further  Equity 
complications. 

Confident 

I  have  just  finished  reading  "Are  We 
Afraid  of  Our  Teen-age  Kids?"  (August, 
TV  Radio  Mirror)  by  Gladys  Hall.  I 
don't  know  when  I  have  read  such  an 
interesting  article.  I  have  three  sons  and, 
though  the  oldest  is  just  ten  now,  I  think 
I  have  learned  a  great  deal  through  read- 
ing this  which  will  help  my  husband  and 
me  to  prepare  for  their  "teen-age." 

Mrs.  M.  M.,  High  Point,  N.  C. 

In  this  article,  Sam  Levenson  suggested 
that  parents  "unite,"  as  their  teen-age 
children  have  already  done.  Judging  from 
the  many  letters  we've  received,  the  parents 
are  taking  Sam's  advice. 

Calling  All  Fans 

The  following  fan  clubs  invite  new  mem- 
bers. If  you  are  interested,  write  to  address 
given — not  to  TV  Radio  Mirror. 

Official  John  Wilder  Fan  Club,  c/o  Alice 
McCracken,  4931  West  14th  St.,  Indian- 
apolis 24.  Indiana. 

Elvis  Presley  Fan  Club,  c/o  Rosemary 
McGlening,  362  Main  St.  North,  Weston, 
Ontario. 

Dinah  Shore  Fan  Club,  c/o  Kay  Daly. 
Pres.,  3528  Greenfield  Ave.,  Los  Angeles 
34,  California. 

FOR  YOUR  INFORMATION— If  there's 

something  you  want  to  know  about  radio 
and  television,  ivrite  to  Information  Booth, 
TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East  42nd  St.,  New 
York  17,  N.  Y.  We'll  answer,  if  we  can, 
provided  your  question  is  of  general  inter- 
est. Answers  will  appear  in  this  column — 
but  be  sure  to  attach  this  box  to  your 
letter,  and  specify  whether  your  question 
concerns  radio  or  TV. 


WHAT'S  NEW  ON  THE  EAST  COAST 


(Continued  from  page  5) 


were  in  trouble  when  Dennis  an- 
nounced he  would  leave  the  show 
in  mid-August.  Well,  he  did  quit, 
but  not  before  he  saved  jobs  for 
the  Mello -Larks,  the  other  singers 
and  the  orchestra.  Seems  NBC 
thought  no  one  was  watching  the 
show  and  planned  to  knife  it.  Denny 
started  a  campaign  to  pull  mail.  He 
brought  in  80,000  pieces.  Pollsters 
figure  about  one  out  of  every  500 
viewers  will  write,  but  even  if  you 
figure  it  at  one  out  of  100  it  showed 
there  were  some  8-million  viewers. 
So  the  show  stays  on  and  everyone 
keeps  their  job  but  Dennis,  who's 
replaced  by  Howard  Miller.  He  quit 
out  of  sheer  homesickness  for  his 
house  and  friends  in  New  York  City. 
His  first  new  assignment  is  as  TV 
spokesman  for  Kellogg  on  all  of 
their  programs. 

With  Onions  &  Relish :  Gisele  Mac- 
Kenzie  turned  down  Broadway 
offers  to  give  her  all  to  the  new  TV 
show.  .  .  .  One  of  Godfrey's  prettiest 
Talent  Scout  finds,  Nancy  Adams, 
signing  a  Decca  contract.  .  .  .  Actor 
Paul  McGrath  (My  Son  Jeep,  Nora 
Drake,  FBI  In  Peace,  etc.,  "Face  in 
the  Crowd,"  scads  more)  will  be 
absent  from  TV  and  radio  for  a  long 
time.  He's  one  of  two  Americans 
(other,  Evelyn  Varden)  honored  to 
open  and  star  in  a  new  London  pro- 
duction. If  you  get  over  that  way, 
the  play  is  called,  "Roar  Like  a 
Dove."  .  .  .  TV  producer  Phil  Barry, 
Jr.,  is  a  new  father.  The  mother,  ac- 
tress Patricia  Barry,  gifted  with  a 
girl.  .  .  .  Item:  We  have  42,500,000 
TV  sets  in  U.S.A.  But  radio  still 
holds  lead  over  TV  in  daytime  at- 
tention. .  .  .  Speaking  of  fall,  Tin  Pan 
Alley  will  be  foisting  on  us  a  new 
brand  of  sound  called  "Rockabilly." 
This  is  Hawaiian  music  with  a  big 
beat.  .  .  .  But  rock  'n'  roll  hasn't 
lost  its  steam.  Dig  this  title  featuring 
Tennessean  Jimmy  Donley,  "Kickin' 
My  Hound  Around."  Arf!  And  it's 
no  sillier  than  some  ballads.  How 
about  S^unny  Gale's  new  item,  "My 
Arms  Are  a  House."  What's  that 
mean,  teacher? 

Listen  to  Harry  Silvers:  Quote: 
I'm  Phil's  oldest  brother,  but  in  all 
of  his  life  I  never  saw  him  like  this. 
You  would  almost  have  thought  he 
was  the  "mother."  All  the  time  Eve- 
lyn was  pregnant  he  stood  by,  suf- 
fering, considerate  and  expectant. 
You  know,  he's  on  a  tough  schedule 
making  the  Bilko  series,  but  when 
he  got  the  eight-week  lay-off  with 
the  rest  of  the  cast  he  just  stayed 
home.  Sat  around  in  his  carpet  slip- 
pers with  Evelyn.  No  other  come- 
dian like  that.  When  the  baby  was 
born  he  made  one  mistake.  He  an- 
nounced she  was  six  pounds.  It  was 
six  plus  eleven  ounces,  but  he  didn't 
know  how  important  ounces  are  to 


a  mother.  They  call  the  baby  Tracey 
Edith.  Tracey  is  just  a  name  they 
pulled  out  of  the  hat.  They  both 
liked  it.  I  know  Phil  was  glad  to 
have  a  girl.  His  own  life  has  been 
tough-going.  I'd  guess  he  thinks  for 
a  girl  life  is  a  little  easier.  You 
should  see  Phil  pick  the  baby  up. 
Every  time  the  baby  gets  a  burp- 
smile,  he  says,  "See,  she  knows  it's 
me."  The  way  Phil  holds  that  baby 
in  his  arms — I've  been  his  personal 
manager  for  seventeen  years  and 
never  before  saw  him  like  this. 
Unquote. 

Pass  the  Pepper:  Biggest  single 
smash  in  summer  was  the  fantastic 
comedy  bit  of  Sue  Carson  on  Sulli- 
van's show.  Ed  immediately  signed 
her  for  six  more  times  this  season. 
.  .  .  And,  this  summer,  Ed  became  a 
grandfather  for  the  third  time.  .  .  . 
And  a  grandfather  for  the  second 
time  is  Big  Payoff  host  Randy  Mer- 
riman.  .  .  .  Barry  Sullivan,  star  of 
the  new  series  Harbourmaster,  has 
taken  on  directorial  chores  for  an- 
other new  TV  series,  The  Joyce  Kil- 
mer Story.  .  .  .  When  Eddie  Bracken 
winces  into  the  camera,  it's  because 
he's  having  real  bad  trouble  with  a 
knee.  .  .  .  Eddie  Fisher  (age  28)  is 
being  described  as  a  middle-aged 
Tommy  Sands.  .  .  .  Envy  Carmel 
Quinn.  She  has  slimmed  down  from 
a  size  14  to  ten.  Carmel  and  spouse 
Bill  Fuller  are  close  friends  and 
neighbors  of  the  Pat  Boones  and  are 
looking  forward  to  their  fall  reunion. 
.  .  .  Actress  Joan  Tompkins  (This  Is 
Nora  Drake)  commuting  between 
New  York  City  and  Hollywood, 
where  hubby-actor  Carl  Swenson  is 
engaged  in  movies.  .  .  .  The  thing 
that  would  make  Julie  and  Rory 
LaRosa  happiest  would  be  to  find 
themselves  a  threesome.  .  .  .  And 
doesn't  time  fugit — Mason  Morfitt 
(Garry  Moore's  big  boy)  enters  Yale 
this  fall  to  study  journalism. 

Dig  Me  Deep:  Eydie  Gorme  actu- 
ally outgrossed  Belafonte  at  Palmer 
House  in  Chicago.  And,  day  by  day, 
more  and  more  people  are  con- 
vinced she  will  develop  into  a  very 
great  talent,  like  a  Judy  Garland. 
But  Eydie  will  not  be  contracted  ex- 
clusively to  Steve  Allen  this  season. 
Wants  to  move  around.  .  .  .  Claire 
Niessen  returns  to  her  role  of  Mary 
Noble  in  Backstage  Wife  after  an  ex- 
tended vacation  in  Europe. 

Bergen's  Big :  Polly  Bergen  stunned 
them  with  her  Helen  Morgan  opus 
and  has  further  set  'em  back  on 
their  heels  by  proving  she  meant 
what  she  had  been  saying — the 
family  comes  first.  No  night  clubs. 
She  turned  down  Las  Vegas  money. 
No  Hollywood.  Of  eight  film  roles 
offered,  she  is  considering  only  two, 
for  they  will  be  made  in  Manhattan. 


Let  me 
tell 


You  oive  it  to  yourself  to  give  Tampax  a 
trial,  this  very  month  .  .  . 

•  Because  it  was  invented  by  a  doctor 
for  the  benefit  of  all  women — mar- 
ried or  single,  active  or  not! 

•  Because  with  Tampax®  internal  sani- 
tary protection,  nothing  can  show 
and  no  one  can  know  your  secret! 

•  Because  Tampax  is  so  comfortable — 
you  hardly  realize  you're  wearing  it! 
No  chafing  pads.  No  chance  of 
odor  forming. 

•  Because  Tampax  is  the  last  word  in 
daintiness.  Easy  to  use,  change  and 
dispose  of — your  fingers  never  need 
to  touch  it! 

•  Because  it  helps  you  forget  about 
differences  in  days  of  the  month! 
Gives  you  so  much  freedom'.  Poise  I 
Confidence! 

For  so  many  reasons — so  important  x.o  you 
— try  Tampax.  Use  Tampax.  In  Regular, 
Super,  Junior  absorbencies,  wherever 
drug  products  are  sold.  Tampax  Incor- 
porated, Palmer,  Mass. 


Invented  by  a  doctoi — 
now  used  by  millions  of  women 


§o  ^»n  urant  to  l>c  s* 


What's  it  like  to  be  on  TV?  Pauline  arrives  to  find  out. 
Below,  with  husband  Daniel,  she  meets  Garry  Moore. 


In  the  supermarket,  she  was  skeptical  .  .  . 
then  Mrs.  Pauline  McCarthy  found  out 
what  it's  really  like  to  be  on  TV 


In  a  letter  to  Garry  Moore,  a  housewife  glumly 
*  compared  her  "ordinary,  everyday"  existence  to 
the  round  of  glamour  she  imagined  belonged  to  TV 
stars.    The  crew-cut  humorist  answered  by 
sending  scouts  out  to  find  a  typical  housewife.  They 
interviewed  many  women,  finally  came  upon 
Mrs.  Pauline  McCarthy  in  a  Cleveland  supermarket. 
When  they  asked  her  how  she'd  like  to  be  a  TV 
performer  for  a  week,  she  was  skeptical.  They  liked 
that.   They  liked,  too,  the  fact  that  she  drove  a 
moderate  priced  car,  that  she  had  her  three  children 
well  under  control,  that  her  husband  Daniel  was 
a  bricklayer  foreman,  and  that  they  lived  in 
suburban  Middleburg  Heights  in  a  home  they  built 
themselves.   But,  when  Mrs.  McCarthy  arrived 
in  New  York,  she  gave  Garry  a  few  uneasy  moments. 
At  their  first  meeting,  they  sat  down  to  "talk" — 
only  she  didn't.  After  a  few  minutes,  though,  Mrs. 
McCarthy  had  made  up  her  mind  in  Garry's 
favor.   She  leaned  over,  patted  him  on  the  shoulder 
and  said,  "You're  just  like  you  are  on  TV."  From 
then  on,  they  were  friends.   Mrs.  McCarthy 
began  her  whirl — meetings  with  celebrities,  glamour 
lunches  and  dinners,  but  also  fittings,  make-up 
sessions,  rehearsals,  publicity  meetings,  conferences 
and  all  the  roll-up-your-sleeves  work  that  went 
into  appearances  on  The  Garry  Moore  Show  and 
small  roles  in  two  daytime  dramas,  The  Edge  Of  Night 
and  Love  Of  Life.  Through  it  all,  Mrs.  McCarthy 
was  a  good  sport  but,  after  it  all,  she  was  happy  to 
get  back  to  the  peace  and  quiet  of  a  housewife's  life. 

The  Garry  Moore  Show  is  seen  on  CBS-TV,  M-Th,  10-10:30  A.M. 
— Fri.,  10-11 :30  A.M. — under  multiple  sponsorship.  I've  Got  A 
Secret,  with  Garry  as  host,  CBS-TV,  Wed.,  9:30  P.M.,  is  spon- 
sored by  R.  J.  Reynolds  for  Winston  Cigarettes.   (Both  EDT) 


Fittings,    rehearsals   .   .   .   then   tips 
on  TV  make-up  from   Polly  Bergen. 


She    plays   scrub-woman    on   Love   Of  Life, 
with  director  Larry  Auerbach,  Jean  McBride. 


Now   a    "celebrity"    herself,    Pauline 
meets    such    VIPs    as     Ed     Sullivan. 


A  good  sport,  say  the  Moore  gang  of  their  Cleveland  housewife.  Above,  I.  to  r.:  Announcer  Frank  Simms,  Garry,  Durward 
Kirby,  Pauline,  producer  Herb  Sanford  and  Ken  Carson.  But,  below,  Pauline  looks  forward  to  the  calm  and  quiet  of  home. 


Directed  by  Richard  Sandwich  (in  shirt),   Pauline  is  a 
counter  girl  at  a  hotel  cigar  stand  in  Edge  Of  Night. 


With  columnist  Earl  Wilson  to  point  out  celebrities, 
Pauline  and  Daniel  McCarthy  "do"  trie  swank  spots. 


11 


THE  LIFE 
HE  LOVES 

The  music  is  lush  and  listenable 
as  Jay  Clark  spins  it  over  WAVZ 


Actor  Robert  Taylor  heads  the  list  of  Jay's  favorite  guest 
interviews.  "A  gentleman  .  .  .  and  a  man's  man,"  Jay  says. 


12 


No  matter  whether  it's  Satchmo  or  Stravinsky, 
music  has  always  been  Jay's  closest  companion. 


On  the  air,  Jay  programs  soft  violins,   sweet  ballads. 


New  Haven  can  thank  a  tough  Army  sergeant  for 
the  lush  music  that  now  comes  its  way 
courtesy  of  Jay  Clark  and  Station  WAVZ.  Looking 
as  smooth  as  he  sounds,  Jay  presides  over  a  morning 
music  show,  from  nine  till  noon  each  weekday, 
and  then  returns  for  Dinner  Date,  evenings  from 
six  to  eight.  At  dawn  or  dusk,  Jay  features  strings 
and  ballads  by  such  as  Mantovani,  Les  Baxter, 
Percy  Faith,  Gordon  Jenkins.  Saturdays,  with  the 
help  of  listeners  who  bring  him  records  dating 
twenty  or  thirty  years  back,  Jay  programs  Old  Timers 
Day,  from  nine  to  noon.  "No  matter  the  vintage," 
he  says,  "  'good'  music  should  be  heard  and  not 
forgotten."  .  .  .  Yet  it  all  began  on  a  sunny  day  back 
in  1945  when,  as  Jay  grins,  "Uncle  Sam  was  footing 
the  tab  for  all  three  F's — food,  footwear  and 
furnishings."  Jay,  as  an  unsuspecting  Private  First 
Class,  accompanied  a  buddy  who  hoped  to  win 
an  audition  for  an  announcer-narrator  on  an  up- 
coming all-Army  radio  show  in  Newport  News, 
Virginia.  When  the  friend  developed  a  severe  case 
of  the  jitters,  a  protesting  Jay  was  literally 
pushed  into  the  studio  to  substitute.  A  piece  of 
paper  was  thrust  into  his  hands  and  an  irate  sergeant 
barked  a  one-word  command:    "Read!"   "Read  I 
did,"  Jay  laughs,  "on  and  on,  for  the  next  twenty 
weeks  on  the  radio."  .  .  .  Twelve  years  later,  Jay 
is  no  longer  reading.  Comments  and  commercials 
are  ad-libbed.  "What  continues  to  amaze  me,  to 
this  day,"  he  says,  "is  the  fact  that  I'm  able  to  buy 
groceries  and  make  my  offering  to  the  landlord 
doing  what  I've  always  cared  for  most,  listening  to 
and  playing  records."  .  .  .  When  bachelor  Jay  winds 
up  his  musical  chores,  he  makes  his  way  around 
the  golf  course — "much  to  the  chagrin  of  the  players 
behind  me,"  he  grins.  Sundays,  once  the  weekend 
papers  are  out  of  the  way,  it's  concert  time  at  the 
Clark  residence.  "Just  recently,  my  lease  was  re- 
newed for  two  more  years,"  he  says.  "I  chalk  this  up 
to  the  fact  that  my  landlord  is  a  music  lover.  That, 
or  else  he  is  buried  under  the  debris  caused  by  the 
cannon  fire  from  Tchaikovsky's  '1812  Overture.'  "... 
Jay  dreams  of  early  retirement  to  Florida — with 
records,  a  typewriter  and  a  cranium  full  of  ideas 
for  stories.  "Life  has  been  too  good  to  me,"  says 
Jay,  "to  worry  or  fret,  or  ever  hurry  to  get  anywhere, 
especially  career-wise."  No  need  to  hurry — as 
WAVZ  listeners  will  testify,  Jay  Clark  has  arrived. 


TV; 


RADIO 
MIRROR 


*H 


TV  favorites  on  your  theater  screen 


By  JANET  GRAVES 


The  Careless  Years 


UNITED     ARTISTS 

Responsible  for  building  many  new  stars 
in  recent  years,  TV  scores  a  double  play 
with  a  touching  drama  of  youthful  love. 
Once  a  child  actor  in  movies,  Dean  Stock- 
well  hit  the  comeback  trail  in  TV  plays 
and  filmed  series.  Natalie  Trundy  made 
her  TV  debut  at  ten,  later  did  top  child 
roles  in  important  shows.  Now  seventeen- 
year-old  Natalie  and  twenty-one-year-old 
Dean  co-star  in  the  story  of  teenagers 
whose  need  for  each  other  drives  them  to 
plan  elopement.  The  decision  they  reach 
provides  thought  for  all  families. 

No  Down  Payment 

20th,   cinemascope 

Usually  identified  with  comedy,  Tony  Ran- 
dall does  a  fine  job  of  serious  character 
portrayal  in  this  close-up  of  a  suburban 
housing  development.  And  Joanne  Wood- 
ward, also  TV-trained,  creates  an  equally 
arresting  personality.  The  story  is  actually 
an  intimate  portrait  of  four  young  couples, 
close  neighbors  whose  lives  intertwine. 
Each  pair  faces  individual  problems :  Tony 
and  Sheree  North  (also  taking  time  out 
from  comedy)  ;  Joanne  and  Cameron 
Mitchell;  Jeff  Hunter  and  Patricia  Owens; 
Barbara  Rush  and  Pat  Hingle.  The  varied 
situations  finally  explode  in  violence. 

The  Pajama  Game 

WARNERS,     WARNERCOLOR 

Here's  the  happiest  musical  that  Doris  Day 
has  turned  out  in  a  long  time.  It's  packed 
with  lively  tunes — the  popular  "Hey 
There"  and  "Hernando's  Hideaway"  being 
only  two  in  the  rhythmic  crowd.  For  Doris 
and  handsome  John  Raitt,  the  labor-man- 
agement quarrel  gets  translated  into  terri- 
bly personal  terms.  As  employee  and  new 
boss  in  a  pajama  factory,  Doris  and  John 
make  the  pleasant  mistake  of  falling  in 
love.  There's  a  rowdy  second  romance 
between  Carol  Haney  and  Eddie  Foy,  Jr. — 
expert  comics  both. 

The  Young  Don't  Cry 

COLUMBIA 

Familiar  faces  on  your  TV  screen,  young 


Sal  Mineo  and  sturdy  James  Whitmore 
make  an  interestingly  contrasted  pair  in 
an  odd  but  convincing  story  of  the  South. 
Sal  is  a  self-reliant  orphan;  James,  a  re- 
bellious convict  working  in  a  road  gang 
near  the  orphanage.  Bullies  in  the  group 
make  the  boy's  life  uneasy;  the  prisoner  is 
plotting  escape.  On  hand,  too,  is  TV  grad 
Roxanne,  looking  decorative  as  wife  of 
Gene  Lyons,  the  orphans'  benefactor. 

That  Night 

UNIVERSAL-INTERNATIONAL 

Stars,  producer,  plot — all  the  elements  of 
this  quiet  yet  strong  family  drama  stem 
from  TV.  First  seen  on  the  home  screens, 
the  story  centers  on  John  Beal,  as  a  TV- 
commercial  writer.  The  pressure  he  works 
under  partly  accounts  for  the  heart  attack 
that  forces  him  to  face  the  possibility  of 
death — then  a  changed  life.  Augusta  Dab- 
ney  plays  his  wife;  Shepperd  Strudwick, 
his  honest,  sympathetic  doctor.  Through- 
out, the  acting  and  the  picture's  general 
handling  create  a  firm  sense  of  reality,  in- 
creased by  the  fact  that  the  whole  movie 
was  shot  in  New  York,  where  its  events 
take  place. 

At  Your  Neighborhood  Theaters 

Loving  You  (Wallis,  Paramount;  Vista- 
Vision,  Technicolor)  :  Drama-with-music 
shows  off  Elvis  Presley  at  his  best,  as  a 
lonely  young  drifter  boomed  into  fame  in 
the  singing  business.  Liz  Scott,  Wendell 
Corey,  Dolores  Hart  share  his  fate. 

Sweet  Smell  of  Success  (TJ.A.)  :  Tony  Cur- 
tis and  Burt  Lancaster  zestfully  play  a 
pair  of  heels  in  this  bitter,  biting  New 
York  story.  Columnist  Burt  assigns  pub- 
Heist  Tony  to  break  up  the  new  romance 
of  Susan  Harrison,  Burt's  sister. 

Will  Success  Spoil  Rock  Hunter?  (20th; 
CinemaScope,  DeLuxe  Color)  :  Hollywood 
attacks  TV  in  a  roaring  farce — all  in  fun, 
but  not  for  kiddies.  Tony  Randall  displays 
his  comedy  skill  as  a  timid  ad  man  snared 
by  film  queen  Jayne  Mansfield. 


Emotion     bewilders     Dean     Stockwer 
and  young  sweetheart  Natalie  Trundy. 


Party  quips  tossed   by  Tony   Randal 
amuse  Sheree   North,    Barbara    Rush. 


After 


fight, 


Day 


a    business    Tignt,    uons 
and  John   Raitt  enjoy  reconciliation. 


13 


JUST 
PAT  BUTTRAM 

His  homespun  humor  has  its  roots 
in  the  rich  Alabama  soil 


Laughter  was  made  to  share.  Pat  shares  his  with  Sheila  and 
Kerry — and  with  a  coast-to-coast  audience  on  CBS  Radio. 


14 


Cute  as  a   bunny,   little    Kerry  was   dressed   like 
one  to  celebrate  Easter  time  with  Sheila  and  Pat. 


Student  of  history,   Pat  Buttram  often  draws  on 
the  lore  of  Americana  for  his  homespun  whimsy. 


Born  Maxwell  Emmet  Patrick  Buttram,  the 
Alabaman  claims  to  be  the  only  man  in  the 
world  with  a  pink  barbecue  .  .  .  and  is 
acclaimed  by  others  as  one  of  the  top  twenty 
authorities  on  the  Civil  War.    More  to  the 
point  is  a  dictum  from  Robert  Benchley.     "Don't 
let  them  label  you  a  comedian,"  Bob  told  Pat 
Buttram.    "You  are  something  deeper  than  that. 
You  are  a  humorist."  You  can  hear  the  difference 
in  a  whimsy  and  a  fresh-air  philosophy  that  is 
rooted  in  the  rich  Alabama  soil  and  is  aired 
coast-to-coast  on  Just  Entertainment.  .  .  . 
A  veteran  wit  of  Western  films,  stage,  night  clubs, 
radio  and  TV,  Pat  is  one  of  seven  children 
of  the  Reverend  Wilson  McDaniel  Buttram,  a 
Methodist  circuit-rider  who  carried  the  Word 
throughout  Alabama  as  far  as  a  lean  horse  and 
a  rickety  buggy   would   travel.    With   dreams   of 
being  a  minister  like  his  dad,  Pat  enrolled  as  a 
theology  student  at  Birmingham  Southern  College. 
But,  while  there,  he  was  spotted  in  a  college 
play  and  hired  by  the  manager  of  a  local  radio 
station.    Still  a  teenager,  Pat  became  one  of  the 
first  disc  jockeys.  .  .  .  Then,  visiting  Chicago,  he 
dropped  in  on  a  broadcast  of  National  Barn  Dance, 
where  it  was  a  regular  practice  to  interview  two 
or  three  members  of  the  audience.  Pat's  comments 
brought  laughter  from  the  audience — and  a 
regular  place   on  the  show  that  he  kept  for 
thirteen  years.   Then  Hollywood  called  and  Pat 
moved  into  pictures,  was  featured  in  the  film 
of  "National  Barn  Dance"  and  in  numerous 
TV  Westerns,  notably  as  Gene  Autry's  sidekick  . . . 
Married  to  film  actress  Sheila  Ryan,  Pat  is 
at  home  in  a  comfortable  ranch-style  house  in 
Van  Nuys,    California.    The   house   offers   lots   of 
play  space  for  their  three-year-old  daughter, 
Kathleen  Kerry.    There's  also  a  swimming  pool, 
tennis  court,  and  a  stable  housing  one  horse 
and  one  mule.   Inside,  the  decor  is  Early  American 
and  Pat's  favorite  room  is  his  study,  with 
the  walls  covered  with  Civil  War  relics,  including 
the  Confederate  bonds  and  currency  acquired 
by  an  optimistic  Southern  forebear.    Here's 
where  Pat  Buttram  creates  Just  Entertainment, 
out  of  the  heritage  of  humor  that  is  his,  too. 

Just  Entertainment,  heard  on  CBS  Radio,  2:45  P.M.,  EDT,  is 
sponsored  by  William  Wrigley  Jr.  Co.  for  Doublemint  Gum. 


HE  RECORD  PLAYERS 

nhis  space  rotates  among 
Gene  Stuart  of  WAVZ, 
Art  Pallan  of  KDKA, 
Al  Collins  of  WRCA  and  NBC 
and  Bill  Mayer  of  WRCV 


When      Frank      Sinatra's     selling 
a   song,   I'm   in   a   buying   mood. 


the  Kiel  from  «J 


y 


Recording  stars  may  come  and  go, 
■V  but  there  are  a  few  "old  timers" 
who  still  keep  rolling  along  .  .  .  re- 
taining a  high  level  of  popularity  .  .  . 
periodically  coming  up  with  a  top  disk 
;  .  ■  ■  making  new  fans  every  time  they 
cut  a  new  platter.  For  instance,  in  my 
book — and  I've  been  a  radio  music 
man  for  the  past  fifteen  years — no 
one  can  replace  Mr.  Frank  Sinatra 
when  it  comes  to  selling  a  song. 

Perhaps   my   opinion   is   a   bit   in- 
fluenced by  the  fact  that  I  enjoyed  the 
fun  of  youth  during  the   era  of  the 
big    bands    and   the    various    singing 
i  "specialists"     that     went     with     that 
period  of  music-making  history  .   .  . 
Skinny  Ennis  and  Bob  Allen  with  Hal 
Kemp  .  .  .  Helen  Forrest  with  James 
.  .  .  yes,  and  even  Ish  Kabibble,  Harry 
Babbitt  and  Ginny  Simms  with  Kay 
Kyser,   and  the  Three  Kaydets  with 
Sammy    Kaye.    I    remember    a    thin, 
gaunt  kid  hugging  a  mike  and  send- 
ing millions  of  teen-age  gals  into  the 
screaming  meemies  with   "I'll  Never 
Smile  Again,"  "Just  as  Though  You 
Were  Here,"  etc.,  etc.  And  I've  had 
the    pleasure    of    watching    this    kid 
j  from    Jersey    grow    into    a    singing 
i  phenomenon,    miss    his    stride    for    a 
j  while  when  he  hit  the  peak,  then  taper 
!   off  and  mature  into  both  an  actor  and 
|   a   singer   who   has    carved   a   unique 
•   and  exclusive  niche  for  himself. 


By  BILL  MAYER 


As  an  early -ay  em  disk  jockey  who 
plays  five  hours  of  music  per  morn- 
ing, I  must  of  necessity  play  all  types 
of  music  for  my  audience.  And  I 
sincerely  enjoy  most  all  categories 
of  music.  However,  I  admit  my  per- 
sonal choice  in  popular  melodies  is 
that  which  is  classified  as  "sweet." 
Thus,  my  preference  of  Sinatra  per- 
formances is  when  he  is  weaving  a 
romantic  spell  via  his  vocal  pipes. 
Although  when  he  picks  up  the  beat 
and  sticks  with  the  melody — as  in 
such  tunes  as  "Tender  Trap"  and 
"You're  Cheating  Yourself"— he  sure 
doesn't  do  himself  any  harm. 

I  think  you  can  follow  the  ups  and 
downs  of  Sinatra's  career  via  his 
records.  I  don't  mean  in  choice  of 
tunes,  but  in  the  quality  of  his  voice. 
In  my  library  there's  a  short-cut  disk 
featuring  Dorsey  with  Sinatra,  called 
"Poor  You."  Every  time  I  play  this 
record,  I  see  a  youngster,  starting  to 
climb  but  still  a  bit  unsure,  perform- 
ing in  his  first  movie  .  .  .  remember? 
Next  was  the  host  of  big  sellers, 
"Smile"  and  so  on,  when  the  boy  was 
enjoying  the  popularity  and  idolatry 
that  comes  with  success.  Then  came 
the  gap,  when  it  seemed  Sinatra  was 
either  fading  or,  of  his  own  choice, 
giving  up  vocalizing  for  a  film  career. 
When  he  once  more  took  on  record- 
ing chores,  Sinatra  was  making  head- 


lines, and  not  very  pleasant  head- 
lines. His  personal  life  was  hitting  a 
snag  and  the  press  was  riding  him 
hard.  The  records  he  cut  at  this  time 
had  an  element  of  "so  what"  about 
them.  He  kicked  around  the  melody, 
ad-libbed  the  lyrics,  and  the  sincerity 
of  the  Sinatra  voice  was  missing. 
Somewhere  along  the  line,  the  boy 
grew  up  and  became  a  man  aware  of 
his  talents  and  his  responsibilities  as 
the  possessor  of  these  talents.  What 
happened?  He  cut  "Young  at  Heart" 
and  he  was  really  off  to  the  races 
again  as  a  top  pop  singer. 

What  makes  a  Sinatra  stay  up  there 
while  hundreds  of  other  hopefuls  are 
hit-and-run  victims  of  fame  and 
fortune?  Who  can  really  tell?  The 
come-and-go-ers  receive  as  much,  if 
not  more,  big  play  today,  via  the 
thousands  of  disk  jockey  programs 
throughout  the  country,  as  Sinatra. 
That  powerful  monster  known  as  TV 
affords  today's  aspirant  an  outlet 
never  available  to  the  Sinatras  in 
their  heyday.  So  what's  the  answer? 
I  certainly  don't  know.  But  I  do  know 
this:  Throughout  the  years  I  have 
played  and  plugged  a  host  of  "hot" 
vocalists.  After  a  few  months,  most  of 
these  records  go  on  the  discard  pile 
while  the  Sinatra  file  just  grows 
bigger  and  bigger.  And,  for  my 
choice,    just   let   it   grow   and    grow! 


Bill  Mayer  is  heard  over  WRCV  in  Philadelphia  each  Monday  through  Saturday,  from  5:30  to  10  A.M. 


15 


16 


NEW!  Clearasil 

lotfoh 


Medication 


Doctors'  Scientific  Formula 

STARVES  PIMPLES 

SKIN-COLORED . . .  hides  pimples  while  it  works 


clearasil  is  the  new-type  medication  es- 
pecially for  pimples.  Clinical  tests  prove  it 
really  works.  And  now  you  can  get  clearasil 
as  a  smooth,  soothing  lotion  in  handy 
squeeze-bottle!  In  Tube  or  Lotion, 
clearasil  gives  you  the  medications  pre- 
scribed by  leading  skin  specialists  . . .  works 
in  a  way  no  so-called  "medicated"  cosmetic 
or  skin-cream  can] 

How  Clearasil  Works  Fast: 


1 .  Penetrates  pimples  .  .  .  'kera- 
tolytic'  action  softens,  dissolves 
affected  skin  tissue  so  medica- 
tions can  penetrate  .  .  .  encour- 
ages quick  growth  of  healthy, 
smooth  skin! 

2.  Stops  bacteria  .  .  .  antiseptic 
action  stops  growth  of  the  bac- 
teria that  can  cause  and  spread 
pimples  .  .  .  helps  prevent 
further  pimple  outbreaks! 

3.  'Starves'  pimples  .  .  .  oil- 
absorbing  action  'starves'  pim- 
ples .  .  .  dries  up  and  helps 
remove  excess  oil  that  'feeds' 
pimples  .  .  .  works  fast  to  clear 
up  pimples! 


Also,  the  penetrating  medical  action  you 
get  with  clearasil  softens  and  loosens 
blackheads  so  they  'float'  out  with  normal 
washing.  And  clearasil  works  at  the  source 
of  the  blackhead  problem  by  drying  up 


excess  skin  oil  which  may  clog  pores. 
Skin-colored  clearasil  blends  with  any 
complexion,  hides  pimples  and  blackheads 
amazingly  while  it  works!  It's  greaseless 
and  stainless,  pleasant  to  leave  on  day  and 
night  for  "uninterrupted  medication. 

Proved  by  Skin  Specialists  . .  .  Guaran- 
teed !  In  clinical  tests  on  over  300  patients, 
9  out  of  every  10  cases  of  pimples  were 
completely  cleared  up  or  definitely  im- 
proved while  using  CLEARASIL  (either 
Lotion  or  Tube).  It's  guaranteed  to  work 
for  you  or  money  back!  Economical, 
long-lasting  "Lotion  squeeze-bottle,  only 
$1.25  (no  fed.  tax)  or  Tube,  69^  and  98£. 
Get  clearasil  at  all  drug  counters. 


Largest-Selling 

Pimple  Medication 

In  America 

(Including  Canada) 


Clearasil 

medication 

"ith-iinl,,, 
\  *0,n  -Otbrnr 


WHAT'S  NEW— WEST 

(Continued  from  page   7) 


Private  Audience:  When  the  Red 
Skeltons,  with  their  nine-year-old 
son  Richard,  a  leukemia  sufferer,  ar- 
rived in  Rome  on  their  round-the- 
world  tour,  Pope  Pius  XII  ignored 
protocol  to  grant  them  a  fifty -minute 
private  audience.  The  Skeltons  are 
Protestant  but  Richard,  a  student  at 
a  Catholic  school  where  his  favorite 
subjects  were  history  and  geography, 
had  once  expressed  an  ambition  to 
become  a  priest.  Red  and  Georgia 
Skelton  wept  as  the  82-year-old  Pope 
invited  their  son  to  sit  next  to  him. 
"From  this  hour  on,  it  will  be  a  holy 
hour  for  you,"  the  Pope  told  him. 
"From  now  on,  you  shall  live  for 
Eternity."  Said  Richard  after  the 
meeting,  "I  felt  good." 

That's  My  Pop:  Handsome  Guy 
Williams,  Zorro  star,  has  confused  his 
4-year-old  son,  Steve,  with  talk 
of  his  new  acting  assignment.  Steve 
now  calls  his  dad,  "Zorro  Daddy." 
Still  not  too  impressed  by  Zorro, 
Steve  inquisitively  tried  to  find  just 
exactly  what  his  dad  did.  It  was  only 
when  he  was  told  that  Guy  worked 
side  by  side  with  such  Disney  stal- 
warts as  Jimmie  Dodd  and  the 
Mouseketeers  that  he  was  finally  im- 
pressed. .  .  .  There's  an  engineer  on 
the  ABC-TV  Lawrence  Welk  Show 
named  Marvin  Jacobs.  His  wife  is  a 
truly  devoted  fan.  One  Saturday, 
Marv  brought  Aladdin  home  for 
lunch.  Soon,  word  of  Marv's  wife's 
cooking  reached  the  ears  of  other 
band-members  and  now,  every  Sat- 
urday, Mrs.  Jacobs  shops  for  at  least 
a  dozen.  All  gratis.  Such  is  the  de- 
votion of  the  Welk  fans  for  members 
of  the  band. 

Love  Their  Work:  Dinah  Shore 
wanted  to  see  Europe.  General  Motors 
put  a  Chevrolet  at  her  disposal  on 
the  Continent.  Husband  George  Mont- 
gomery gave  her  a  camera.  In  Paris, 
Rome  and  London,  Dinah  will  shoot 
pictures.  Next  season  you  will  see 
Dinah's  vacation  in  Europe.  That's 
right,  they'll  be  part  of  the  Chevrolet 
commercials.  .  .  .  Eve  Arden  and  her 
husband,  Brooks  West,  will  erect 
a  small  summer-stock  theater  on  their 
Hidden  Valley  property.  It  will  be 
a  weekend  theater  for  professionals, 
playing  to  almost  a  closed-circuit 
audience.  The  main  idea  is  to  give  the 
old  pros  a  chance  to  vent  their  secret 
ambitions,  such  as  singers  to  dance, 
dancers  to  act,  actors  to  sing.  .  .  . 
Gunsmoke's  Jim  Arness  has  always 
wanted  to  sing.  Roulette  Records 
signed  him  to  do  a  series  of  Western 
and  pop  ballads.  But  Wyatt  Earp, 
(Hugh  O'Brian)  who  has  already 
recorded  an  album  for  Am-Par,  beat 
him  to  the  draw.  Now  big  Jim  isn't 
so  sure  he  wants  to  do  the  songs  be- 
cause he  wouldn't  want  to  be  accused 
of  'copying.'  That's  the  way  the  ol' 
roulette   wheel    goes   round. 


»» 


WHAT  DOES  IT  MEAN  TO  YOU? 


By  HELEN  CAMBRIA  BOLSTAD 


What  IS  this  pay-TV  hassle  all  about?  Who  started 
it?  What  will  it  do  for  you — or  to  you?  Will  pay- 
TV — as  its  supporters  claim — herald  "the  dawn  of 
a  new  day  in  TV  programs"?  Or — as  its  opponents  as- 
sert— will  it  destroy  the  present  no-charge  system  and 
divide  the  nation  into  those  who  can  afford  to  see  a  show 
and  those  who  can't? 

The  issue,  long  controversial  and  confusing,  became 
crucial  in  June  when  the  Federal  Communications  Com- 
mission stated  it  had  the  power  to  authorize  subscrip- 
tion television  and  called  for  new  briefs  which  would 
spell  out  in  detail  the  conditions  under  which  extensive 
field  trials  could  be  held  to  determine  its  acceptance  or 
rejection  by  the  public. 

Proponents  of  pay-TV — Zenith  Radio  Corporation, 
which  owns  Phonevision;  Skiatron,  which  has  Scriber- 
Vision;  and  Paramount,  which  has  Telemeter — hailed 
this  as  a  victory.  Pay-TV  is  inevitable,  they  claim. 

Opponents — the  National  Association  of  Radio  and 
Television  Broadcasters,  theater  owners  and  others — ob- 
ject even  to  the  tests.  Bills  have  been  introduced  in 
Congress  to  prevent  them.  Senator  Strom  Thurmond 
(D.,  S.C.)  has  stated,  "Permitting  pay  television  to  be 
used  generally  would  be  the  same  as  having  the  Con- 
gress impose  a  new  tax  on  the  people  of  this  country." 

The  convention  of  the  General  Federation  of  Women's 
Clubs  also  became  a  battleground  for  the  issue  and  the 
ladies  passed  a  resolution  which  was  so  intricately 
phrased  that  both  sides  claimed  endorsement.  The  chair- 
man of  the  Federation's  Communications  Committee, 
however,  interpreted  it  as  giving  her  a  clear  mandate  to 
campaign  against  pay-TV. 

Where  do  you  stand?  As  a  member  of  the  American 
viewing  public,  you  have  a  right  to  an  opinion.  Your 
investment  in  television  exceeds  that  of  all  the  stations 
and  networks.  You  have  spent  some  fifteen  billion  dol- 
lars to  buy  the  sets  which  now  bring  entertainment  into 
your  living  rooms  without  charge.  You  also  own  the 
air  over  which  the  signal  is  transmitted.  The  Federal 
Communications  Commission  is  your  means  of  regulat- 
ing its  use. 


Your  opinion  counts,  for  what  you  decide  now  may 
well  determine  how  much  use  your  TV  set  will  be  to  you 
five  years  hence — and  what  it  will  cost  you  to  use  it. 
To  find  your  answers,  since  you  have  the  highest  stake 
in  this  matter,  you  might  just  as  well  start  where  both 
the  broadcasters  and  the  toll-TV  advocates  do,  and  pick 
up  a  hand  in  the  big  numbers  game. 

The  big  numbers  game  provides  the  most  intriguing 
coffee-break  conversation  in  broadcasting  today.  It  is 
based  on  the  old  American  folk-phrase,  "I  wish  I  had 
a  dollar  every  time  someone  .  .  ."  Complete  that  sen- 
tence with  the  words,  "turns  on  a  TV  set,"  and  you  deal 
in  dazzling  digits.  The  population  of  the  United  States 
is  now  171  million.  About  40  million  TV  sets  are  in 
use.  Next,  consider  how  many  hours  approximately 
500  stations  are  on  the  air.  Mix  them  together  and  you 
can  come  up  with  a  collection  of  dollar  signs  which  has 
intoxicated  many  an  imagination. 

There  are  two  ways  to  play  the  big  numbers  game. 
The  advertising  men  play  it  by  long  division  and  call 
it  "cost  per  thousand."  The  guy  with  the  lowest  num- 
ber wins.  The  pay-TVers,  in  contrast,  aim  high  and 
use  multiplication  signs  to  pyramid  potential  •  wealth. 

Here's  an  extremely  simplified  illustration  of  the  way 
it  works:  The  "cost-per-thousand"  figure  comes  from 
The  Billboard,  which  each  week  indexes  the  Top 
Twenty  shows.  This  show-business  newspaper  defines 
it  as:  "The  sponsor's  cost  of  reaching  1,000  TV  homes 
per  minute  of  commercials."  To  secure  the  figure,  they 
divide  the  show's  total  program  and  net  time-cost  by 
the  number  of  homes  which  the  American  Research 
Bureau  reports  were  tuned  in.  Thus,  during  a  given 
week  toward  the  close  of  last  season,  it  cost  the  spon- 
sor, Dodge  Motors,  96  cents  per  commercial  minute  to 
put  The  Lawrence  Welk  Show  into  a  thousand  homes. 
Revlon's  figure  for  The  $64,000  Question  was  $1.67; 
Lincoln-Mercury's,  for  The  Ed  Sullivan  Show,  was 
$1.78  per  thousand. 

It  takes  another  transaction  to  produce  the  actual 
revenue.  The  sponsor  gambles  he  will  sell  enough  mer- 
chandise  in  those   homes  to    (Continued  on  page   61) 


;; 


17 


Robert    Horton    in    Wagon    Train 


Walter    O'Keefe    of    Nightline 


* 


Pioneer  of  "spectaculars"  on  TV  and 
"continuous  programming"  on  ra- 
dio, NBC  offers  even  more  this  season. 
Monitor  fills  the  air  with  news  and 
novelties  on  weekends,  Nightline  has 
taken  over  all  the  other  evenings,  ex- 
pects to  blanket  the  "prime"  hours  in 
each.  That  will  be  just  fine  with  listen- 
ers, who  can  never  get  enough  of 
Walter  O'Keefe,  the  Hartford,  Conn., 
boy  who  made  good  on  Broadway  and 
is  tickled  neon-pink  to  be  back  on 
Times  Square.  .  .  .  For  top  TV  spe- 
cials, watch  for  Texaco  Command 
Appearance  (Sept.  19),  in  coopera- 
tion with  the  American  Theater  Wing 
— Standard  Oil's  big  variety  show 
(Oct.  13)—  General  Motors  Jubilee  Of 
American  Music  (Nov.  17) — -"Annie 
Get  Your  Gun"  (Nov.  27).  Latter 
brings  back  beloved  Mary  Martin, 
pictured  below  with  husband  Richard 
Halliday  and  daughter  Heller.  And 
note  that  "Pinocchio"  (Oct.  13)  will 
star  Mickey  Rooney  on  both  TV  and 
radio.  Most  NBC  specials  will  be  in 
color,  and  so  will  many  regular  TV 
shows.  .  .  .  Perry  Como  not  only  re- 
turns to  his  Saturday  show  (Sept.  14), 
but  may  also  do  a  couple  of  special 
musicals.  Dinah  Shore  gives  up  her 
midweek  song  program  to  make  more 
full-hour  appearances  on  The  Chevy 
Show  (Oct.  20),  which  becomes  a 
Sunday  regular  and  will  "rotate" 
other  stars — possibly  including  Gin- 
ger Rogers.  Bob  Hope  will  do  six 
shows  for  Timex,  irregularly  sched- 
uled, using  some  material  he's  col- 
lected in  Europe.  First  will  feature  a 
Casablanca  locale  (Oct.  6).  .  .  .  Under 


strictly  separate  contracts,  Jerry  Lewis 
will  do  at  least  six  shows  (first,  Nov. 
4),  Dean  Martin's  apparently  set  to 
sing  every  other  Saturday  night — 
with  Polly  Bergen  being  mentioned 
as  the  alternating  star  (Sept.  21). 
Rosemary  Clooney  will  probably 
headline  the  big  variety  show  (Sept. 
26)  replacing  Lux  Video  Theater  for 
the  same  sponsor.  .  .  .  There'll  still 
be  plenty  of  drama  on  TV.  Shifting 
overnight  from  Sundays,  Alcoa-Good- 
year  Anthology  (Sept.  30)  takes  over 
part  of  the  Monday  time  left  vacant 
by  Bob  Montgomery.  Loretta  Young 
comes  back  to  her  Sunday  series  (Oct. 
6),  but  Jane  Wyman  will  start  a  new 
run  on  Thursdays,  in  half  of  the  old 
Video  Theater  time.  Her  summer  re- 
placement, Meet  McGraw,  is  expected 
to  be  permanent.  So  is  Manhunt, 
which  replaced  The  Big  Story.  .  .  . 
Newcomers  in  the  adventure  field  in- 
clude: Wagon  Train  (Sept.  11),  with 
veteran  actor  Ward  Bond  and  Robert 
Horton,  the  U.C.L.A.  drama-school 
grad  who  may  become  this  year's 
Western  idol — Restless  Gun  (Sept. 
23),  with  film  star  John  Payne  in  a 
role  made  famous  on  radio  by  Jimmy 
Stewart — The  Calijornians  (Sept.  24), 
about  San  Francisco  at  the  turn 
of  the  century — Suspicion  (Sept.  30), 
a  full  hour  of  mystery  by  masters  of 
the  suspenseful  art.  The  lighter  side 
of  crime  detection  will  be  taken  care 
of  by  Peter  Lawford  and  Phyllis  Kirk 
as  Nick  and  Nora  Charles  of  The  Thin 
Man  (Sept.  20) .  The  serious  side  will 
be  represented  by  Court  Of  Last 
Resort    (Oct.  4),  based  on  real  cases 


Mary  Martin,  Richard  Halliday  and  Heller  Halliday 


- 


f 


t-ff 


E A STERN 


.     WELCOME 

EASTERN  t 


■HBM| 


Eddie    Fisher    and    George   Gobel 


k4*i*di***A*A*** 


with  Lyle  Bettger  as  chief  investiga- 
tor. .  .  .  Radio  drama  settled  down  to 
a  new  daytime  pattern  on  NBC  this 
summer,  when  the  ever-popular  One 
Man's  Family  left  its  night-time  spot 
to  join  a  strong  afternoon  line-up  of 
continued  stories.  There'll  be  a  sim- 
ilar boost  to  the  morning  schedule 
next  month,  when  My  True  Story 
moves  to  NBC  Radio;  same  time,  new 
stations,  beginning  early  in  October. 
.  .  .  Caesar's  Hour  has  struck,  but 
Sid  may  be  back  on  NBC-TV— and 
reunited  with  Imogene  Coca,  if  pres- 
ent plans  materialize!  A  big  new 
Tuesday-night  hour  (Sept.  24)  com- 
bines the  humorous  talents  of  George 
Gobel  and  vocal  magic  of  Eddie  Fish- 
er. Both  will  appear  each  week,  but 
alternate  as  host  and  guest  star.  .  .  . 
There's  been  no  further  schedule  talk 
of  Follow  That  Man,  the  Milton  Berle 
series.  (Everybody  likes  what  they've 
seen — till  they  look  at  the  price  tag. 
But  Miltie,  cleaning  up  in  the  clubs, 
is  feeling  no  pinch  in  the  pocketbook.) 
Washington  Square  is  now  a  historic 
memory;  Ray  Bolger's  probably  doing 
a  Broadway  musical.  Ernie  Kovacs 
just  wants  to  free-lance  between 
movies;  says  it's  fun  to  relax  and  let 
Edie  Adams  bring  home  the  bacon 
from   "Li'l  Abner."   .   .   .   Compensat- 


ing for  the  absence  of  such  independ- 
ent males  is  the  welcome  return  of 
both  Joan  Caulfield  and  Marion  Lome 
in  Sally  (Sept.  22),  with  Joan  as  trav- 
eling companion  to  a  giddy  matron 
played  by  Wally  Cox's  former  pal. 
.  .  .  Charles  Van  Doren,  hero  of 
Twenty-One,  becomes  special  com- 
mentator for  Wide  Wide  World  (Sept. 
15).  It's  been  quite  a  year  for  the 
Columbia  professor's  entire  family! 
His  brother  John — also  a  college  in- 
structor— made  his  TV  debut  as  a 
High-Low  panelist.  Their  famous  fa- 
ther, Mark  Van  Doren,  took  part  in  a 
summer  series  on  NBC  Radio's  The 
Eternal  Light.  And  Geraldine,  the 
pretty  girl  who  first  urged  Charles 
into  the  quiz  game,  is  now  a  Van 
Doren,  too — they're  pictured  at  right 
on  wedding  trip!  .  .  .  Wide  Wide  World 
will  be  seen  at  least  twice  a  month, 
with  Omnibus  alternating  (as  of  Oct. 
20).  Both  90-minute  programs  will 
occasionally  relinquish  their  Sunday- 
afternoon  spot  for  specials.  Tennessee 
Ernie  Ford,  returning  to  The  Ford 
Show  (Sept.  19),  has  given  up  his  day- 
time stint,  with  Bride  And  Groom  ex- 
pected to  be  permanent  replacement. 
Meanwhile,  it's  a  homecoming  for  The 
Bob  Cummings  Show  (Sept.  24),  back 
on  the  net  where  it  made  its  TV  debut. 


Charles  and  Geraldine  Van  Doren 
1 


Joan    Caulfield — alias    "Sally" 


Stan  Freberg  and  Peggy  Taylor 


Richard  Boone  with  Western  gun 


*■ 


There's  new  menu  magic  at  CBS, 
where  variety  has  always  been  the 
spice  and  comedy  a  basic  ingredient. 
Radio  started  serving  its  new  dishes 
before  Labor  Day,  though  times  may 
change  as  old  favorites  return  to  fa- 
miliar spots.  Big  new  singer  is  the 
guitar-swinging  lad  who  came  out  of 
Kirksville,  Mo.,  to  head  The  Rusty 
Draper  Show.  Raves  also  greeted  the 
offbeat  humor  of  Stan  Freberg,  melo- 
diously supported  on  his  own  pro- 
gram by  Peggy  Taylor.  The  long- 
awaited  returns  of  Bing  Crosby  and 
Rosemary  Clooney  make  welcome 
headlines,  too.  .  .  .  They  all  join  such 
master  chefs  of  music  and  humor  as 
Amos  'n'  Andy  and  Robert  Q.  Lewis. 
But  the  real  stop-press  flash  is  Arthur 
Godfrey,  adding  to  his  daily  radio 
schedule  with  a  late-afternoon  stanza 
for  Ford  (Sept.  16) !  .  .  .  There's  plenty 
of  news  on  TV,  of .  course,  though 
dates  are  less  definite  because  so  many 
summer  replacements  continue  into 
September  and  even  October.  Hey, 
Jeannie!  is  gone,  her  place  being  taken 
this  fall  by  a  rugged  Westerner,  Have 
Gun — Will  Travel,  in  which  Richard 
Boone  (a  descendant  of  Dan'l)  drops 
his  familiar  scalpel  for  a  six-shooter. 
Harbourmaster,  a  new  seafarer  star- 
ring Barry  Sullivan,  replaces  Bob 
Cummings  (moving  to  another  net). 
Trackdown,  a  Western  series,  takes 
over  for  West  Point.  The  eagerly- 
awaited  Perry  Mason  (see  story,  this 
issue)  becomes  a  Saturday-night  reg- 
ular— but  the  oft-promised  Gary  Coo- 
per series  is  now  a  project  for  1958. 
.  .  .  No  one  will  want  to  miss  the  debut 
of  Du  Pont  Show  Of  The  Month  (Sept. 
29) .  Stars  of  "Crescendo,"  its  first  90- 
minute  extravaganza  in  color,  are  the 
extravagantly  talented  Ethel  Merman 


and  Rex  Harrison — Broadway's  "Pro- 
fessor 'Iggins,"  who  just  married  his 
own  fair  lady,  Kay  Kendall,  this  sum- 
mer. .  .  .  The  Seven  Lively  Arts  (Nov. 
17),  emceed  by  TV-radio  critic  John 
Crosby,  opens  its  hour-long  Sunday 
series  with  "The  Ways  of  Love."  Also 
scheduled  for  a  November  debut  is 
High  Adventure  With  Lowell  Thomas, 
which  will  preempt  other  shows  at 
various  times  to  present  60-minute 
sagas  of  travel  with  the  noted  ex- 
plorer-reporter. .  .  .  No  dates  or  plans 
have  been  announced  for  versatile 
Mickey  Rooney,  pending  completion 
of  his  one-shot  on  another  net.  But 
subjects  are  already  being  lined  up  for 
a  unique  documentary  called  The 
Twentieth  Century.  First  topic  for 
the  latter,  which  replaces  You  Are 
There  for  same  sponsor,  will  be  that 
great  man-of-our-times,  Sir  Win- 
ston Churchill  (Oct.  20).  The  similar- 
ly named  20th  Century-Fox  Hour 
departs,  with  Armstrong  Circle  Thea- 
ter moving  from  another  net  to  alter- 
nate with  The  United  States  Steel 
Hour  early  in?  October.  .  .  .  There's 
been  quite  a  re-shuffle  for  CBS-TV's 
famed  comedy  kings  and  queens. 
Jackie  Gleason  has  given  up  his  big 
variety  show  to  go  golfing  or  make 
mood  music  for  more  albums — he  can 
afford  time  off,  having  sold  The  Hon- 
eymooners  for  a  figure  'round  the 
million  mark  (the-39  films  will  be  re- 
sold for  local-station  viewing).  Lu- 
cille Ball  and  Desi  Arnaz  have  stopped 
making  further  I  Love .  Lucy  films, 
and  The  Danny  Thomas  Show  moves 
into  their  Monday  slot.  But  Lucille 
and  Desi  will  do  five  big  variety 
hours  for  Ford  during  the  coming 
season — and  Lucy  re-runs  will  be 
seen  on  Wednesdays  (Sept.  30).  .  .  . 


"Crescendo's"   Rex  Harrison  and   bride  Kay  Kendall 


The  Eve  Arden  Show — with  Allyn  Joslyn 


The  Eve  Arden  Show,  with  Allyn 
Joslyn,  will  see  America's  favorite 
schoolteacher  in  a  new  guise,  as  a 
traveling  lady  lecturer  (based  on 
Emily  Kimbrough's  book,  "It  Gives 
Me  Great  Pleasure").  But  Our  Miss 
Brooks  lives  on — not  only  in  TV  re- 
runs, but  the  continuing  series  on 
CBS  Radio.  Jack  Benny  comes  back 
on  radio,  too.  The  Waukegan  won- 
der's TV  series  (Sept.  15)  will  have 
a  new  alternate  in  place  of  Private 
Secretary — a  brand-new  situation 
comedy  (Sept.  22)  variously  referred 
to  as  Bachelor  Father  and  Uncle  Bent- 
ley,  but  quite  definitely  starring  John 
Forsythe,  TV's  own  matinee  idol  from 
Penns  Grove,  N.  J.  Other  situation- 
comedy  newcomers  include  Dick  And 
The  Duchess,  starring  Patrick  O'Neal 
and  Hazel  Court  against  an  interna- 
tional  background,    and    Wally    And 


The  Beaver,  which  teams  Paul  Sulli- 
van, 12,  and  Jerry  Mather,  8.  .  .  .  For 
Patti  Page,  this  is  the  year  of  years. 
First,  her  marriage  to  Charles  O'Cur- 
ran;  then,  a  delayed  but  glorious 
honeymoon  in  Europe;  now,  stardom 
in  one  of  CBS-TV's  most  cherished 
projects.  On  the  premiere  of  The  Big 
Record  (Sept.  18),  she'll  be  hostess 
to  headliners  ranging  from  Sal  Mineo 
to  Eddie  Cantor — with  David  Wayne 
and  Ella  Logan  teaming  up,  for  the 
first  time  on  TV,  to  sing  the  songs 
they  made  famous  in  "Finian's  Rain- 
bow." .  .  .  Another  must-see  will  be 
the  teaming  of  Bing  Crosby  and  Frank 
Sinatra  for  one  big  splash  (Oct.  13)  — 
Bing  Crosby  will  do  the  show  "live," 
for  the  greater  glory  of  his  alma 
mater,  Gonzaga  U.  Meanwhile,  Bob 
Crosby  has  relinquished  his  daytime 
show,  in  hopes  of  a  night-time  spot. 


Patti    Page,   Charles   O'Curran 


John    Forsythe   in    new   comedy 


I 


-t 


Television  history  has  been  made  by 
ABC,  with  its  trail-blazing  pro- 
grams for  children  and  the  mighty 
Westerns  which  created  new  matinee 
idols.  Walt  Disney's  Mickey  Mouse 
Club  and  Disneyland  are  now  "musts" 
in  any  household  containing  small 
fry — and  it  was  the  latter  series  which 
put  coonskin  caps  on  young  America, 
thanks  to  Fess  Parker's  lusty  por- 
trayal of  Davy  Crockett.  Clint  Walk- 
er, as  Cheyenne,  Hugh  O'Brian,  as 
Wyatt  Earp,  increased  the  roster  of 
he-man  heroes — and  you  can  be  sure 
there'll  be  more  Western  stars  in  the 
galaxy,  this  coming  season.  .  .  .  But 
ABC  is  also  long  famous  for  its  music, 
from  Metropolitan  Opera  to  Lawrence 
Welk.  The  TV  '  net's  biggest  of  all 
fall  plans  are  built  around  top  sing- 
ers. Judging  from  the  line-up, 
thii  should  surely  be  music  for  all  the 
family,  too — because  families  mean  so 
much  in  the  personal  lives  of  these 
stars  themselves.  .  .  .  Guy  Mitchell— 
who  was  born  Al  Cernick  in  Detroit, 
and  who  will  have  his  own  live  show 
(Oct.  7) — is  understandably  proud 
of  his  beautiful  Danish-born  bride, 
Else.  Pat  Boone,  whose  big  show  will 
be  on  Thursday  nights  (Oct.  3),  is 
married  to  Red  Foley's  daughter 
Shirley.  They're  devoted  to  their 
youngsters,  Cherry,  Lindy,  Debby, 
and  are  now  expecting  a  fourth  addi- 
tion to  the  family.  .  .  .  Patrice  Munsel 
— first  Metropolitan  Opera  star  to 
head  her  own  regular  TV  series  (Oct. 
18) — is  prouder  of  her  husband,  Rob- 
ert Schuler,  and  their  babies,  Heidi 
and  Rhett,  than  of  the  brilliant  high 
notes  which  have  made  her  interna- 
tionally famous  since  leaving  her  na- 
tive Spokane.  Her  new  show,  which 
promises  to  be  more  "pop"  than  clas- 
sical, immediately  precedes  the  spec- 
tacular series  (also  premiering  Oct.  18) 
which  stars  Frank  Sinatra — whose 
marital  fortunes  haven't  been  any- 
thing to  write  home  about,  but  who 
expects  to  have  the  three  children  of 
his  first  marriage  guest-appearing  on 
the  new  program,  which  will  combine 
music  and  drama,  live  and  on  film.  .  .  . 
Getting  back  to  those  new  Westerns, 
Maverick  (Sept.  22)  will  bring  us  tall, 
dark  and  handsome  James  Garner, 
Korean  War  veteran  from  Norman, 
Okla.  Sugarfoot  (Sept.  17)— replacing 
Conflict  on  alternate  weeks  with 
Cheyenne  —  stars  blue -eyed,  sandy- 
haired  Will  Hutchins,  a  "Will  Rogers" 
type  born  right  in  Los  Angeles.  Zorro 
(Oct.  3)  naturally  headlines  a  fasci- 
nating Latin  hero— Guy  Williams, 
who  started  life  as  Armando  Cata- 
lano,  back  in  New  York.  .  .  .  Western 
in  locale  but  humorous  in  type  will 
be  The  Real  McCoys  (Oct  3),  starring 
great  character  actor  Walter  Brennan 
with  Kathy  Nolan- — the  green-eyed, 
red-haired  beauty  from  St.  Louis  who 


played  Wendy  to  Mary  Martin's  un- 
forgettable Peter  Pan.  No  casting  re- 
ports, at  this  writing,  on  Wednesday 
night's  Tombstone  Territory  (Oct. 
16)  and  Friday's  Colt  .45  (Oct.  18). 
But  O.S.S.  (Sept.  26)  will  have  Ron 
Randell  as  the  dashing  hero  involved 
in  mystery  and  intrigue.  .  .  .  Adven- 
ture, big-city  style,  is  the  keynote 
of  The  Walter  Winchell  File  (Oct. 
2),  presenting  the  rapid-fire  columnist 
as  host-actor-narrator  for  dramatized 
news  stories  of  the  kind  so  familiar 
to  him,  from  his  long  coverage  of  the 
bright  and  seamy  sides  of  Broadway. 
For  theatrical  fireworks,  be  sure  to 
watch  Telephone  Time  during  Octo- 
ber, when  an  offbeat  story  will  co-star 
Ethel  Barrymore  and  Billie  Burke, 
for  the  first  time  in  their  distinguished 
careers!  .  .  .  And,  if  your  youngsters 
have  been  missing  some  of  their  fa- 
vorites— Superman,  Wild  Bill  Hickok, 
Sir  Lancelot,  Woody  Woodpecker, 
The  Buccaneers — just  dial  ABC  week- 
day afternoons,  beginning  the  very 
first  week  in  October.  Meanwhile, 
Circus  Boy  (Sept.  19)  will  have 
moved  in  to  stay  on  Thursday  eve- 
nings. .  .  .  Radiowise,  there  are  great 
plans  in  the  making  at  the  American 
Broadcasting  Network.  No  more  day- 
time drama,  but  fresh  formats  for 
sparkling  new  personalities — so  keep 
listening    for    latest    announcements. 


mcffld/emt^e 


Gisele  has  always  cherished  those  precious  moments 
alone  in  her  New  York  apartment — the  first  home  of 
her  own  she's  had,  since  leaving  her  native  Canada. 

Jack  Benny,  master  showman,  believed  in  Gisele's 
star  talents,  is  responsible  for  her  big  new  program. 


Plenty  of  dates,  both  personal  and  professional.  Out 
in  California  for  her  show,  this  nature-lover's  also 
looking    forward    to    an    outdoor    life    in    the    sun. 


By  GLADYS  HALL 


What  a  year  thi.~  has  been  for  Gisele 
MacKenzie!    A  year  of  changes,   of  new 
experiences  and  adventures.  Just  about  the 
only  thing  Gisele  hasn't  done,  in  these  crowded 
months,  is  to  fall  in  love  and  get  married — the 
dark,  dynamic  singing  star  has  had  much  too 
much  on  her  mind  for  that,  as  the  magic 
hour  drew  nearer  and  nearer  for  the  debut  of 
The  Gisele  MacKenzie  Show,  September  28, 
at  9:30  P.M.  EDT,  over  NBC-TV. 

"It's  one  thing,"  Gisele  points  out,  "to  be  one 
of  four  singing  stars  on  Your  Hit  Parade,  as  I  was 
until  last  June.  It's  quite  another  thing  to  be 
the  star  of  your  own  show.    The  very  first  show 
of  your  own  you've  ever  had.   And  scheduled 
for  Saturday  night,  too,  the  night  when  so 
many  TV  Bigs  are  seen  and  heard!   It's  a  terrible 
responsibility,   rather  frightening — and 
altogether  wonderful." 

For  this  delightfully  pulse-stirring  develop- 
ment, Miss  MacKenzie  and  her  fans  have  a  certain 
fellow  fiddler  to  thank,  Mr.  Jack  Benny 
by  name.   Ever  since  they  first  worked  together, 
some  three  years  ago,  Jack  has  felt  that  Gisele 
should  have  a  specially   (Continued  on  page  66) 

The  Gisele  MacKenzie  Show  is  scheduled  to  be  seen  on  NBC- 
TV,  Saturdays  (beg.  Sept.  28),  9:30  to  10  P.M.  EDT,  spon- 
sored alternately   by   Scott  Paper   Co.   and   Schick   Razors. 


This  has  been  Gisele  MacKenzie's  Big  Year. 
Neiv  show,  new  trips,  new  plans.  Everything 
except  love  and  marriage — but,  as  Gisele  says  . 


Canine  pals  Wolfie  and  Bruna  know 
they'll  be  with  her  wherever  she  goes, 
aren't  a  bit  afraid  to  see  her  pack  up. 


Gisele  thinks  every  woman  should  have: 
time  alone  with  her  thoughts  each  day 
— preferably  relaxed  in  a  rocking  chair! 


Helen  O'Coniiell  kept  a  date  with  destiny — and 
met  the  man  who  made  her  happy  home  complete 


By  FRANCES  KISH 

ON  the  twelfth  day  of  last  April, 
when  Helen  O'Connell  kept 
a  lunch  date  with  two  of  her 
Today  co-workers,  she  had  not  the 
slightest  premonition  that  she  was 
also  keeping  a  date  with  destiny. 
She  would  have  laughed  her  mel- 
low ripple  of  a  laugh,  now  so  hap- 
pily familiar  to  her  early  morning 
viewer-listeners,  at.  such  an  awe- 
some idea.  Her  hazel  eyes  would 
have  crinkled  characteristically 
until  only  the  fringe  of  dark  lashes 
could  be  seen,  and  her  dimples 
would  have  danced  with  amuse- 
ment and  disbelief. 

Wasn't  this  simply  another  lunch, 
after  a  busy  morning  of  last- 
minute  briefings  and  what  passes 
for  rehearsals  on  a  spontaneous 
show  like  Today — of  going  on  the 
air  as  singer  and  featured  cast 
member,  and  after  that  of  sitting 
in  at  the  usual  conference  about 
next  day's  show?  Wasn't  this  just 
the  usual  Monday-through-Friday 
kind  of  routine,  and  the  usual 
break  for  lunch  with  a  friend  or 
two? 

The  fact  is,  it  wasn't.  This  day 
she  was  to  meet  a  deeply  tanned 
six-foot  ex-soldier  of  Greek  de- 
scent by  name  of  Tom  T.  Chamales 
(pronounced  Sha-moll-ess),  author 
of  "Never  So  Few,"  a  first  book,  a 
war  novel  of  such  power  that  it 
immediately  swept  into  all  the 
best-seller  lists.  And,  four  weeks 
later,  on  the  ninth  day  of  May,  she 
was  to  marry  him — to  the  great 
delight  of  her  three  young  daugh- 
ters, Jackie,  Joannie  and  Jennie, 
aged  13,  10  and  9. 

Helen  was  seated  this  day,  with 
the  two  other  girls  from  the  show, 
in  a  comer  of  Toots  Shor's  res- 
taurant, close  to  the  studio  from 
which  Today  is  broadcast.  Tom  and 
another  man,  a  friend  of  Helen's, 
came  into  the  room.  The  friend 
brought    (Continued   on   page   82) 

Today  is  seen  on  NBC-TV,  M-F,  from  7  to 
10  A.M.  EDT.  Helen  has  also  had  her  own 
singing  show  on  NBC- TV,  Wed.  and  Fri., 
at  7:30  P.M.,  during  the  summer  months. 


26 


«%■ 


■00* 


WP: 


f  •  •  •  • 


•«*1 


*y  7 


■»     *. 


*'» 


Helen's  girls — Jennie,  9;  Joannie,  10;  Jackie,  1 3 — are 
fascinated  by  the  family's  newest  member,  too.  They 
coaxed  writer  Tom  Chamales  into  proposing  to  Helen  all 
over  again  for  their  benefit — five  times,  on  bended  knee! 


Tom  admires  the  girls  as  distinct  individuals:  "Each  has  some- 
thing of  Helen,  some  of  her  traits,  but  none  has  all  of  them." 
And  Helen's  grateful  to  Joyce  Mayo,  the  "stand-in"  for 
a  busy  wife  and  mother  who  goes  to  work  about  five  A.M. 


Ann  Leonardo,  19,  of  Fresno,  California,  duefs  with  the 
nicest  Talent  Scout  of  all.  Like  Jan,  she  studied  music 
early.  Like  many  another  contestant,  she  also  appeared  on 
Godfrey's  morning  show — and  a  thrilling  new  career  began. 


The  saga  of  six  exciting  "discoveries" 
reads  like  a  letter  of  thanks  to 
the  bright  little  songbird — and  to  that 
fabulous  redhead,  Arthur  Godfrey 

By  MARTIN  COHEN 


When  Arthur  Godfrey  and  Jan  Davis  read  this 
piece,  they  will  be  delightfully  surprised.  In  the  past 
year,  Arthur  has  said  repeatedly  that  the  big  incentive 
for  continuing  his  TV  programming  is  the  thrill  and 
satisfaction  in  discovering  new,  young  talent.  Now,  Arthur 
is  going  to  find  out  what  the  young  talent  think  about 
Arthur  Godfrey — and  what  they  have  to  say  about  the 
pretty  gal  he  appointed  producer  of  Talent  Scouts, 
Janette  Davis. 

To  make  it  clear,  Janette  Davis,  producer,  is  the  same 
decorative  redhead  who  sings  so  well  herself,  on  both 
TV  and  radio.  It  is  an  exception  for  a  woman  to  be  a 
performer  on  one  network  show  and  the  producer  of 
another,  but  then,  Jan  is  an  exceptional  woman.  She 
began  to  sing  before  she  could  talk  and,  from  the  time  she 
was  a  toddler,  sang  at  church  meetings  and  school 


Danny  Costello  seconds  Ann's  notion  that  no  one  could  be 
more  helpful  than  Jan.  The  Talent  Scouts  winner,  his  wife 
Mary  and  two  small  sons  make  their  home  in  Jersey  City, 
where  he  was  born  and  reared  among  opera-loving  Italians. 


Continued 


> 


Anita  Bryant,  17,  is  one  young  singer  who  has  special  reason  to 
be  grateful  that  Jan  remembers  her  own  early  struggles,  tries  to 
make  it  easier  for  out-of-towners  to  audition  for  Talent  Scouts. 


New  York — whether  window-shopping  or  snatching  a  coffee-break 
at  Colbee's,  near  CBS — is  not  quite  real  to  Anita,  who  was  born 
in  Barnesdale,  TV-debuted  in  Oklahoma  City,  now  lives  in  Tu'sa 


30 


0 


TALEIVT   SCOUT 

(Continued) 


Miyoshi  Umeki,  22,  has  come  far  from  Hokkaido 
via  TV,  records,  films.  She  still  performs  in  Jap- 
anese  costume — but   adores    "American  '    pizza. 


functions  in  Humphrey  and  Pine  Bluff,  Arkan- 
sas. At  fourteen,  she  had  her  first  radio  contract 
singing  and  playing  piano  over  a  Memphis  ^sta- 
tion. Jan's  professional  activities,  from  fourteen 
on,  included  much  radio  work  ("some  of  it  for 
plain  experience")  and  a  lot  of  club  work.  She 
sang  with  such  bands  as  Joe  Reichman's.  She 
starred  on  radio  shows  out  of  Shreveport  and 
Cincinnati  and  Chicago.  She  had  her  own  net- 
work series  before  Arthur  asked  to  have  her 
on  his  new  network  program  when  he  joined 
CBS. 

"But,  for  years,  I've  had  this  yen  to  work 
with  new  talent,"  Jan  says.  "New,  young  talent 
helps  to  make  the  Godfrey  show  exciting.  But, 
in  a  personal  sense,  too,  it  is  a  very  exciting  and 
satisfying  experience  to  work  with  the  new- 
comers." 

Since  Jan  took  over  (Continued  on  page  63) 


Tommy  Common,  24,  is  the  youthful  pride  of  Canada — 
a  title  which  he  and  his  wife  Doreen  would  more  quickly 
bestow  on  son  Jamie,  at  home  in  their  native  Toronto. 


Steve  Karmen,  19,  is  a  native  New  Yorker,  blond,  and 
a  bachelor.  Jan  suggested  that  he  keep  his  guitar  with 
him  on  the  program,  for  confidence.  "But  mostly,"  says 
Steve,  "it  was  her  manner  that  made  me  feel  at  ease." 


Arthur  Godfrey's  Talent  Scouts  is  seen  on  CBS-TV,  Mon.,  8:30 
P.M.,  for  Thomas  J.  Lipton,  Inc.,  and  The  Toni  Company.  Arthur 
Godfrey  Time  is  heard  on  CBS  Radio,  M-F,  10  A.M.,  and  seen  on 
CBS-TV,  M-Th,  10:30  A.M.,  under  multiple  sponsorship.  (EUT) 


Talent  Scouts  gets  the  special  blessing  of  Tommy  and 
Doreen.  "The  public  should  know  what  a  wonderful,  hard- 
working  person  Janette   Davis  is,"  Tommy  will  tell  you. 


Truth-and  Its  Consequenc 


Truth  Or  Consequences  and  its  audiences  are  pure  delight  to  Bob,  who  says,  "When  it  goes  well,  I'm  flying!" 


Bob  Barker's  success  story  verifies 
the  enduring  values  of  hard  work  and 
honest  interest  in  his  fellowman 

By  GORDON  BUDGE 


Tall,  handsome  Bob  Barker,  new  emcee  of  Truth  Or 
Consequences,  has  a  smile  as  fresh  and  bright  as  one  of  the 
quick-current   trout    streams    sparkling    through    the 
Washington  north  woods  where  he  was  born.     On  the 
surface,  he  has  a  jolly,  devil-may-care  personality  which 
perfectly  fits  the  laugh-a-second  situations  spawned  on 
T  Or  C.   But  underneath  the  laughter  is  a  serious, 
hard-working  young  man  with  an  intense  desire  to  give  his 
very  best  to  the  audience  he  feels  is  responsible  for  his 
success.     And,  after  eleven  years  in  (Continued  on  page  68) 

Bob  emcees  Truth  Or  Consequences,  seen  on  NBC-TV,  M-F,  11 :30  A.M.  EDT, 
and  heard  on  NBC  Radio,  M-F,  10:05  A.M.  EDT,  under  multiple  sponsorship. 


Bob,  DJ,  and  Ralph  Edwards — the  show's 
creator — in  Truth  Or  Consequences,  N.M. 


At  home,  Bob  and  DJ  (Dorothy  Jo) 
each  have  own  cooking  specialties. 


1944:  Just  commissioned  in  Navy, 
just  wed  to  his  DJ  for  three  days. 


Seven  pussycats  share  the  small  apartment  where  a  young  idealist  studies  hard,  makes,her  plans,  builds  her  dreams 


u 


THE  BEST  I  CAN  BE 


y> 


Norma  Moore,  of  The  Secret  Storm, 

has  clear  ideas  of  what  she  wants- 
and  the  prices  to  be  paid  for  them 

By  MARY  TEMPLE 


Sooner  or  later,  every  woman  learns  that  being  an 
idealist  about  love,  about  life,  about  one's  work — 
whether  it's  homemaking  or  a  career — has  its  price. 
For  Norma  Moore,  who   is   Susan  Ames  in   the 
CBS-TV  daytime  drama,  The  Secret  Storm,  this  kind 
of  integrity  may  be  costly,  but  she  is  determined 
to  protect  it,  nevertheless. 

Youthful  as  a  teenager — born  February   20,   little 
more  than  twenty  years  ago  .  .  .  lovely  to  look  at — 
auburn-brown  hair  that  curls,  blue-gray  eyes  that 
pay  you  the  compliment  of   (Continued  on  page  72) 


Busy  with  her  career,  Norma  still  finds  time  for  dating — 
mostly  with  actors,  though  she  isn't  planning  to  marry  one. 


Norma  feels  she  understands  the  heart  problems  of 
Susan,  daughter  of  Peter  Ames  (Peter  Hobbs,  above), 
in  The  Secret  Storm — but  hasn't  fallen  in  love  yet. 

The  Secret  Storm  is  seen  on  CBS-TV,  M-F,  4:15  P.  M.  EDT, 
sponsored  by  Whitehall  Pharmacal  Co.  and  Boyle-Midway. 


34 


Together  on  House  Party:  Art's  proud  his  eldest  son  has  chosen 
the  same  profession.  But  Jack  had  to  remind  him  that  he's  only 
following   in  father's  footsteps,  too,   wanting  to   marry  so  early! 


Art  Linkletter's  House  Party  is  on  the  air  Monday  thru  Friday — on  CBS-TV, 
2:30  P.M.,  sponsored  by  Pillsbury  Mills,  Kellogg  Company,  Lever  Brothers, 
Campbell's  Soups,  Swift  &  Co.,  Simoniz,  Standard  Brands — on  CBS  Radio,  3 
P.M.,  sponsored  by  Pharma  Craft,  Lever,  Standard  Brands,  Swift,  Sfmoniz, 
A.  E.  Staley,  Sweetose,  Sleep-Eze.  Art  also  emcees  People  Are  Funny 
—on  NBC-TV,  Sat.,  7:30  P.M.— NBC  Radio,  Wed.,  8:05  P.M.   (All  EDT) 


Too  young  for  marriage — at  19?   But 
later  this  year,  Linkletter's  eldest 
son  will  be  20  .  .  .  with  Art's  and 
Lois' 's  wisdom — and  Barbara's  love  . . . 

By  FREDDA  BALLING 


K'our  years  ago,  Jack  Linkletter,  aged  sixteen, 
descended  from  the  stratosphere,  flew  into 
the  living  room  where  his  parents  were  reading 
one  peaceful  Saturday  night,  and  announced: 
"I've  met  her!  Just  as  you  always  predicted, 
when  it  hit,  I  knew  what  it  was.  Love.  This  is 
the  girl  I'm  going  to  marry." 

Art  and  Lois  Linkletter  glanced  up  from  script 
and  newspaper  and  gave  Jack  their  full  but  un- 
alarmed  attention.  Coming  to  a  safe  landing  on 
the  sofa,  Jack  supplemented  his  original  report. 
"This'll  kill  you:  We're  in  the  same  math  class 
at  school,  but  somehow  I  never  noticed  her  until 
I  danced  with  her  at  the  party  tonight.  Man,  she's 
neat.  There  goes  that  bachelor  apartment  I  al- 
ways planned  to  furnish." 

Art  asked  the  name  of  the  divine  one's  father 


These  are  "fun"  days  for  Jack  and  his  charming 
fiancee,  Barbara  Hughes.  But  both  are  serious  in 
facing  the  responsibilities  that  lie  ahead  of  them. 


! 


36 


Jack  was  attending  U.S.C.,  Barbara  at  U.C.L.A.,  when  they  met.  Both  will  continue  their  studies 
after  the  wedding'  this  December.  They've  already  taken  a  marriage  course,  learning  to  handle  those 
minor  grievances  which  can  count  so  much.   (Barbara's  tardinesSi  Jack's  carelessness  in  losing  things). 


and  where  the  family  lived.  Having  elicited  that  concrete 
information,  he  said,  "I've  heard  of  those  people — they're 
substantial."  And  went  back  to  his  reading.  "They'd  have 
to  be,  to  have  parented  a  girl  like  the  future  Mrs.  Jack 
Linkletter,"  sighed  Jack,  soaring  out  of  the  room  and  up 
the  stairs. 

Seven  weeks  later,  Jack  limped  home  one  October 
afternoon,  slightly  damaged  by  football  scrimmage,  and 
propelled  himself  to  his  private  phone.  A  date  arranged — 
even  if  the  girl  had  to  wheel  him  in  an  invalid's  chair — he 
dragged  his  contusions  to  the  dinner  table  and  beamed. 
"This  is  it — love,"  he  said,  a  pair  of  shiners  only  adding 
to  the  glow  of  his  eyes.  "We're  going  to  a  movie  tomorrow 
night— whether  I  can  see  anything  or  not.   She's  a  livin' 


doll."    Art  and   Lois   smiled   as   they   passed   the   salt. 

Ten  weeks  later,  there  was  a  new  goddess — a  blonde. 
Five  months  later,  a  redhead  with  freckles  and  a  tendency 
to  giggle.  Eight  months  later,  a  beautiful  starlet.  These 
transient  romances  had  one  quality  in  common  with  true 
love:   They  did  not  always  run  smoothly. 

Taking  up  his  quandaries  with  his  father,  as  usual, 
Jack  said  uncomfortably  one  Sunday  morning,  "I  could 
be  wrong,  but  I  thought  last  night  that  I  was  being 
conned  .  .  .  well,  this  is  a  corny  thing  to  say,  but  .  .  .see, 
I  don't  want  to  be  unfair  .  .  ." 

"Dialogue  like  that  will  never  earn  you  an  Emmy," 
observed  Jack's  father,  grinning.  Then,  in  swift,  concise 
sentences,  Jack  explained  that  (Continued  on  page  70) 


37 


The  very  house  he  wanted,  the  big  family  he  hoped  for: 
Dick  and  Pat — expecting  another  baby  soon — pose  at  left 
with  sons  James  and  Nels  (foreground)  and  nephew  Casey. 


Nephew  and  Nels  and  neighbor's  son  can  expect  all  the  best, 
going  Dick's  way.  Van  Patten  loves  the  old-fashioned  flavor 
of  the  "home  town"  he  picked  for  himself  while  still  a  boy. 


^l/mm) tk  cme  hie 

Dick  Van  Patten's  always  had  all  the  luck — but  he  wasn't  so  sure  he  could  win  Pat! 


By  ELIZABETH  BALL 


The  happiest  story  of  the  month  is  the  story  of  a  young 
man  who  hasn't  a  complaint  or  a  grudge  or  a  frus- 
tration or  an  unfulfilled  desire  to  his  name;  the  story 
of  a  young  man  who  is  completely  happy  now  and  who 
— with  the  single  exception  of  six  desperate  months  when 
love  seemed  out  of  reach — has  always  been  completely 


happy;  a  young  man  for  whom  every  dream  he  ever 
dreamed  has  come  true.  He's  blue-eyed,  fair-haired, 
twenty-eight-year-old  Dick  Van  Patten,  long  seen  as 
Mama's  son  Nels  and  frequently  heard  on  such  popular 
dramas  as  the  American  Broadcasting  Network's  Whis- 
pering Streets  and  My  True    (Continued  on  page  78) 


Dick  Van  Patten  is  frequently  heard  over  ABC  Radio  on  My  True  Story,  M-F,  10  A.  M.  EDT,  and  Whispering  Streets,  M-F,  10:45  A.  M., 
under  multiple  sponsorship.  He  is  also  seen  "as  Nels  in  the  TV  dramatic  series,  Mama— consult  local  papers  for  time  and  station  in  your  area. 

Pets  for  Nels,  handyman  chores  for  Dick,  wide  community  interests  for  a  volunteer  fireman  and  his  "wonderful  cook"  wife. 








*«f 


•  #  t 


*«t» 


Crusader's  Wife 

Evangelist  Billy  Graham  and  his 
true  helpmeet,  Ruth,  have  proved  that 
"two  hearts  are  better  than  one" 
for  building  a  heaven  here  on  earth 


Home  in  Carolina:  Wife  Ruth,  her  namesake  daughter 
and  son  Franklin  listen  as  Billy  gives  daily  Bible 
lesson.  When  he's  away,  Ruth  also  reads  Scriptures 
regularly,    striving    to    balance    love    and    discipline. 


Graham's  Crusades  for  Christ  call  him  far  from   home  to  such 
1  vast,  overflowing  arenas  as  New  York's  Madison  Square  Garden. 


By  GREGORY  MERWIN 


Religion  and  romance  unite  to  form  a  perfect  combination 
in  the  happy  marriage  of  Billy  and  Ruth  Graham. 
As  proof,  Billy  has  been  moved  to  say,  during  one 
of  his  inspiring  sermons,  "After  living  with  Ruth, 
I  think  I  know  now  what  heaven  will  be  like."   And  Ruth, 
asked  to  comment  on  being  separated  so  much  of  the 
time  from  Billy,  has  said,  "I'd  rather  see  a  little  of  Billy 
than  a  lot  of  anyone  else."    They  have  been 
married  since  August  13,  1943. 

"I  think  we  have  an  unusually  happy  marriage,"  Ruth 
says,  even  while  indicating  that  she  considers  Billy's 
praise,  comparing  life  with  her  to  living  in  heaven,  a 
little  far-fetched.     "It's  no  ivory-tower  existence," 
she  notes.   "With  four  children,  two  dogs,  a  car  and  five 
kittens  and  four  sheep  and  a  few  (Continued  on  page  86) 

Billy  Graham's  Hour  Of  Decision  is  heard  Sundays  on  varied  networks: 
ABC  Radio,  3:30  P.M.;  NBC  Radio,  10  P.M.;  Mutual,  10  P.M.  (All 
EDT;  consult  local  newspapers  for  correct  time  and  station  in  your  area.) 


They  frown  on  family  publicity — but  had  a  smile  for 
cameras  as  Ruth  and  the  girls  (Anne,  now  9;  Ruth, 
6;  Virginia,  almost  12)  greeted  Billy  on  his  return 
from  successful  European  tour  a  couple  of  years  ago. 


41 


Stand  Up  and  Be  Counted ! 

The  story  of  a  TV  program  devoted  to  the  problems  of  people  everywhere — a  program 
developed  with  the  single  purpose  of  helping  troubled  men  and  women  to  decisions 


A  good  paying  job  in  Ireland  or  American  citizenship  for 
his  child — the  dilemma  of  Brendan  Ward.  Introductory  let- 
ter was  followed  by  interview  with  producer  Robert  Wald, 
Frank  Wait  (standing)  and  Chris  Carroll  (seated  at  desk). 


On  the  air,  Brendan  Ward  (right)  tells  his  story  to  Bob 
Russell,  host  of  CBS-TV's  Stand  Up  And  Be  Counted,  and 
they  discuss  the  difficult  decision  that  must  be  made. 
Home  and  studio  audience  also  recorded  their  opinions. 


Every  day,  people  must  make  decisions,  many  times 
involving  nothing  more  serious  than  whether  to  do 
the  dusting  before  or  after  making  the  trip  to  the 
supermarket.  Or  whether  to  berate  your  neighbor, 
whose  dog  has  been  digging  up  your  tomato  plants.  But, 
occasionally,  everybody  is  confronted  with  a  real  dilem- 
ma— a  problem  which  presents  alternate  decisions,  each 
having  both  happy  and  unhappy  aspects.  Neither  de- 
cision, therefore,  is  the  perfect  answer  to  the  situation. 
For  this  reason,  confronted  with  a  true  dilemma,  many 
men  and  women  stand  confused  and  frustrated,  won- 
dering which  way  to  turn. 

To  offer  help  to  these  people,  the  TV  program  Stand 
Up  And  Be  Counted  was  devised.  Its  format  was  built 
on  the  idea  of  sharing,  in  order  that  the  troubled  in- 
dividual might  benefit  from  the  opportunity  to  talk  with 
those  who  had  faced  identical  or  comparable  situations. 

Men  and  women  from  all  walks  of  life  and  from  all 
parts  of  America  have  been  selected  to  appear  on  the 
program.  These  guests  are  chosen  through  the  letters 
they  write,  the  cards  they  fill  in  at  the  studio,  or 
through  researchers  who  work  all  over  the  country 
seeking  out  people  who  face  dilemmas.  The  guests  on 
Stand  Up  And  Be  Counted  are  carefully  screened  by 
personal   interview.   Those   whose   problems   are   valid 


then  present  their  dilemmas  on  the  show.  This  is  how 
it  works: 

In  first  appearance  on  the  show,  the  guest  reveals 
details  of  his  or  her  dilemma,  guided  by  Bob  Russell, 
who  acts  as  host.  Since,  in  each  case,  he  is  dealing 
with  a  person  heavily  troubled  in  heart  and  mind, 
Bob  faces  a  difficult  problem  himself — how  to  make 
it  easy  for  the  person  to  speak  out  frankly  and  ef- 
fectively. Bob  manages  very  well,  since  he  came  to 
this  show  after  a  wide  experience  as  master  of  cere- 
monies and  quizmaster.  Beyond  this  specialized  train- 
ing, however,  Bob  brings  to  his  job  a  capacity  for 
friendship  which  draws  out  the  best  and  clearest  pres- 
entation of  the  guest's  problem. 

After  the  story  has  been  told,  the  members  of  the 
studio  audience  voice  their  opinions.  This  segment  of 
the  program  has  an  informal  "backyard  fence"  feeling 
— a  friendly  wish  to  help  others. 

After  the  opinions  have  been  expressed,  a  poll  is 
taken  which  results  in  a  majority  recommending  one 
action  and  a  minority  taking  the  other  point  of  view. 
At  this  point,  the  home  audience  is  invited  to  write 
in  their  opinions,  too. 

Bob  Russell  then  points  out  to  the  guest  that  he 
or  she  is  free  to  make  whatever  decision  seems  best. 


42 


Stand  Up  And  Be  Counted  is  seen  over  CBS-TV,  Monday   through  Friday,  from  1:10  to  1:30  P.M.  EDT,  under  multiple  sponsorship. 


1 


Happy  beneficiary:  Ann  Marie  Ward,  born  on  December  13,  1956 — and 
an  American  citizen,  as  her  parents  wished.  Stand  Up  And  Be  Counted 
was  instrumental  in  getting  father  a  job  to  keep  him  in  the  United  States. 


This   ends   the   guest's  first   appearance   on   the   show. 

At  each  of  the  shows,  however,  a  previous  guest  who 
has  now  had  an  opportunity  to  ponder  all  opinions — 
verbal  on  the  show,  or  written  in — re-appears  to  state 
the  decision  arrived  at.  Bob  Russell  then  presents  the 
guest  with  such  gifts  as  will,  in  the  opinion  of  Stand 
Up  And  Be  Counted,  do  most  to  make  the  decision  work 
out  to  a  happy  conclusion. 

A  few  brief  summaries  of  the  dilemmas  of  people 
who  have  appeared  on  the  show  will  serve  to  illustrate: 
Take   the   interesting   story   of   Brendan   Ward,    Irish- 


born  musician.  He  and  his  wife  came  to  America  a  short 
time  ago.  Lacking  a  job  in  his  own  field,  he  got  a  job  as 
stockboy.  Mrs.  Ward  worked  to  supplement  the  income., 
Their  combined  salaries  let  them  get  along,  and  they 
grew  to  love  their  adopted  country.  Then  Mrs.  Ward 
became  pregnant  and  was  forced  to  stop  work.  Brendan's 
own  salary  was  inadequate.  Just  at  this  time,  the  man 
who  had  employed  him  in  Ireland  offered  him  his  old 
job.  The  Wards  were  tempted — but  more  than  any- 
thing in  the  world  they  wanted  their  child  to  be  born 
in  the  United  States  and  be  a  citizen  of  this  country. 

Continued     w 


43 


Stand  Up  and  Be  Counted ! 


HHHHBHHNH 


Ed  Siebeti's  problem:  A  job  as  long-distance  trucker  which 
kept  him  away  from  family.  Should  he  change  jobs?  As 
result  of  appearance  on  show,  he  has  new  and  better  job. 
No  longer  a  part-time  father  and  husband,  he's  shown 
(below)  with  Ed,  Jr.,  7,  Wilbur,  3,   Mrs.  S.,  LaVonne,  6. 


Approximately  30  seconds  after  John  Manic  decided  he 
wished  to  see  his  mother  again  after  estrangement  of  23 
years,  he  was  reunited  with  her.  Picture  (right),  taken  while 
program  was  on  the  air,  shows  reunion.  (L  to  r.)  Mrs. 
John  Manic,  John  and  his  mother,  Mrs.  Ernest  Mastoras. 


The  dilemma  Brendan  faced:  "Can  I  be  justified  in  re- 
fusing a  good  job  and  gamble  on  the  future  in  the  United 
States?"  When  the  voting  was  done  at  Stand  Up  And 
Be  Counted,  the  majority  opinion  was  overwhelmingly 
in  favor  of  his  remaining  to  take  the  gamble.  The  show 
management  followed  through  in  its  usual  helpful  way. 
Maternity  clothes  were  supplied  for  Mrs.  Ward,  a  com- 
plete layette  was  bought  for  the  coming  child.  Mrs. 
Theresa  Dorsey  appeared  on  the  show  and  arranged  a 
meeting  with  Jimmy  and  Tommy  Dorsey,  the  famous 
musicians  whose  death  has  since  saddened  everyone. 
With  such  encouragement,  Brendan  Ward  and  his  wife 
decided  to  battle  out  their  problems  right  here.  As  a 
happy  ending:  Ann  Marie  Ward  was  born  on  December 
13,  1956 — an  American  citizen  who  can  be  very  proud  of 
her  daddy,  who  is  now  leader  of  the  band  at  New  York's 
famous  City  Center  Ballroom. 

The  dilemma  of  Ed  Siebert  of  Pocahontas,  Illinois, 
was  quite  different  from  that  of  Brendan  Ward.  Mr. 
Siebert  was  driver  of  a  huge  trailer  truck  which  kept 
him  almost  constantly  on  the  road  between  St.  Louis 
and  New  York,  his  regular  run.  His  dilemma:  "Shall 
I  give  up  a  job  which  keeps  me  away  from  my  family 
but  provides  them  with  the  material  benefits  of  life?" 
With  the  help  of  the  audience  and  write-in  response  to 
his  problem,  Ed  Siebert  decided  that  it  was  wise  to  con- 
tinue on  his  job.  But  airing  his  troubles  had  given  Ed 
Siebert  confidence  and  courage.  Other  miracles  promptly 
occurred.  The  American  Trucking  Association  awarded 
Ed  a  check  for  $1,000  on  the  show  as  a  reward  for  his 
perfect  safe-driving  record.  Refrigerated  Transit,  Inc., 
appointed  Ed  as  Eastern  Manager  for  the  company.  So, 
today,  Ed  Siebert's  life  has  changed  completely  as  a  re- 
sult of  his  Stand  Up  And  Be  Counted  appearance. 

The  case  of  John  Manic  was  completely  different  from 
that  facing  Ed  Siebert.  John  had  been  raised  by  his 
father,  who  led  him  to  believe  his  mother  was  dead. 
Seven  years  ago,  when  he  was  dying,  the  elder  Manic 
revealed  that  John's  mother  had  left  her  husband  and 
boy  when  the  child  was  only  two.  A  deathbed  promise 
was  made  by  John  never  to  search  out  his  mother.  A 
few  years  ago,  John  married — and  told  the  story  to  his 
bride.  Since  then  his  wife  had  continually  urged  him  to 
learn  to  know  his  mother  (whose  whereabouts  they  had 
discovered).  John's  problem:  "Is  a  deathbed  promise 
binding?"  An  overwhelming  96%  of  the  audience  of 
Stand  Up  And  Be  Counted  said,  "No!"  John's  comment, 
"I'm  going  to  call  my  mother  tonight.  I  can't  go  to  see 
her  until  next  summer  because  of  my  job."  It  wasn't 


44 


Personal  responsibility  vs.  civic  duty  was  problem  of  Marie  Fedoronko 
of  Detroit,  Michigan.  Serious  illness  of  wife  threatened  volunteer 
work  with  teenagers  of  the  city.  On  show,  Fedoronko  gains  advice  from 
Jackie  Robinson  and  James  B.  Nolan,  executive  director  of  New  York's 
Police  Athletic  League.    Bob  Russell,   host  on  show,  stands  at  left. 


necessary  to  call — the  program  had  counted  on  John's 
warmhearted  decision,  and  had  his  mother  in  his  arms 
only  a  moment  after  he  made  the  decision. 

Still  another  kind  of  dilemma — conflict  between  civic 
duty  and  personal  responsibility — was  highlighted  in 
the  touching  story  of  Marie  Fedoronko  of  Detroit, 
Michigan.  Mr.  Fedoronko  has  worked  for  23  years  as  an 
employee  of  Detroit's  Department  of  Parks  and  Recrea- 
tion. On  the  job,  he  worked  with  youngsters  from  all 
over  the  city.  But  he  also  spent  every  spare  moment 
initiating  and  guiding  sports  activities  for  the  girls  and 
boys  who  would  otherwise  have  been  playing  on  the 
streets.  He  started  girls'  softball  teams,  an  effort  which 
has  led  to  an  all-state  league.  He  organized  basketball 
teams,  talent  shows,  teen-age  dances.  And  in  all  this 
work  he  was  encouraged  by  his  wife,  who  well  realized 
the  worth  of  his  volunteer  efforts. 

Recently,  personal  tragedy  struck  in  Fedoronko's  own 
home.  His  wife  has  become  critically  ill  and  is  invalided 
for  life.  Marie  was  at  once  impelled  to  relinquish  his 
work  with  teenagers  in  order  to  spend  all  his  time  wfth 
his  beloved  wife.  But  he  met  unexpected  opposition. 
Mrs.  Fedoronko  strongly  urged  him  to  continue  his 
work.  Unable  to  make  up  his  mind,  Marie  brought  his 
problem  to  Stand  Up  And  Be  Counted.  On  the  show, 


to  add  the  weight  of  professional  opinion,  were  Jackie 
Robinson  and  Director  James  B.  Nolan  of  the  New  York 
Police  Athletic  League.  Over  94%  of  the  audience  agreed 
with  Mrs.  Fedoronko  that  Marie  should  continue.  When 
he  appeared  on  the  show  to  announce  his  decision,  Marie 
Fedoronko  quoted  his  wife.  "Mary  feels,"  he  said,  "that 
we  only  pass  through  this  world  once,  and  any  good  we 
can  do — well,  we've  got  to  do  it  now." 

The  unselfish  devotion  of  both  Fedoronko  and  his 
wife  did  not  go  unnoticed.  Governor  G.  Mermen  Williams 
of  Michigan  lauded  Fedoronko  in  a  special  tribute. 
Mr.  Fedoronko  was  given  (by  the  show)  a  check  for 
$500  to  buy  additional  sports  equipment  for  his  projects 
with  teenagers.  And  Stand  Up  And  Be  Counted  estab- 
lished an  annual  "Marie  Fedoronko  Youth  Leadership 
Award"  to  be  sponsored  by  the  Detroit  Department  of 
Parks  and  Recreation  and  awarded  each  year  to  the 
man  or  woman  of  Detroit  who  contributed  most  vitally 
to  the  welfare  of  teen-age  boys  and  girls.  First  winner 
of  this  signal  honor?  Marie  Fedoronko,  of  course — the 
man  who  stood  up  to  be  counted  in  his  community. 

To  all  of  these  people,  and  to  hundreds  of  others  who 
have  appeared  on  the  show,  Stand  Up  And  Be  Counted 
offers  an  inspiration  in  time  of  need,  a  living  testimony 
to  the  fact  that  help  always  comes  to  those  who  seek  it. 


45 


Betsy  Palmer  enjoys  everything  about  cooking,  -from  choosing  the  right  spices  through  every  step  of  preparing  a  meal. 


& 


m/tet/ 


46 


Good  cook  in  glamour-girl  disguise, 

Miss  Palmer  of  Masquerade  Party  invites 

you  to  share  her  favorite  recipes 


If  you're  lucky  enough  to  be  invited  to  dinner  at  Betsy 
Palmer's  apartment  in  Greenwich  Village,  you're 
in  for  a  treat  and  will  surely  want  the  recipes  to 
take  home.  Betsy — who  was  born  in  East  Chicago,  Illi- 
nois, and  graduated  from  De  Paul  University — is  a 
dramatic  actress,  as  well  as  sparkling  panelist  on  Mas- 
querade Party.  But  she's  proudest  of  being  Mrs.  Vincent 
Merendino,  preparing  her  specialties  for  her  doctor 
husband  and  their  friends.  Here's  a  whole  menu  of  her 
favorite  recipes,  adapted  for  use  in  your  own  kitchen. 
(Betsy  points  out  that  the  appetizer  is  also  savory  with- 
out anchovies,  and  the  salad  bowl  doesn't  have  to  be 
rubbed  with  garlic.  Of  the  artichokes-and-peas,  she 
says  briefly  but  fervently,  "This  dish  is  the  end!") 

Betsy  Palmer  is  a  regular  panelist  on  Masquerade  Party,  as  seen 
on  NBC-TV,  during  the  summer  season,  Wednesdays,  at  8  P.M.  EDT. 


APPETIZER 

Makes  6  portions. 
Break  open  and  toast: 

3  English  muffins 

Drizzle  each  cut  surface  with  olive  oil. 
Place  neatly  on  each  half: 

slice    of   mozzarella    cheese    sprinkle  of  fresh  ground 
2  fillets  of  anchovy  pepper 

drop  or  two  of  olive  oil  sprinkle  of  oregano 

Place  on  cookie  sheet  or  broiler  pan,  put  under  broiler 
heat  until  j cheese  starts  to  melt.  Serve  while  very  hot. 

GARLIC  BASTED  STEAK 

Makes  6  portions. 

Select  a  4-pound  steak  for  broiling,  and  cut  away  fat 
and  bone.  Combine: 

%  cup  olive  oil 

juice  from  3  cloves  of  pressed  garlic 
1  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  briskly  with  a  fork,  and  brush  over  steak.  Put 
under  broiler  flame,  cook  2  minutes.  Brush  with  garlic 
oil,  cook  2  minutes  longer.  Turn  steak,  brush  with  garlic, 
broil  2  minutes,  baste  and  cook  2  minutes  longer.  If 
steak  is  to  be  served  rare,  it  will  be  ready.  If  it  is  to  be 
cooked  longer,  lower  heat,  and  baste  frequently,  turn- 
ing once  again,  until  steak  is  as  done  as  desired. 


ARTICHOKE  HEARTS  WITH  PEAS 

Wash  6  artichokes.  Remove  outer  leaves.  Then,  hold- 
ing the  bud  by  the  base,  tear  off  the  tough  tops  of  the 
leaves,  until  you  reach  the  more  tender  inner  leaves. 
Cut  the  artichoke  in  quarters,  and  then  cut  out  the 
spiney  center.  Cut  quarters  in  slices. 

Chop  fine: 
3  peeled  cloves  of  garlic  4  peeled  shallots 

Place  in  skillet  with  a  little  olive  oil  and  brown 
over  low  heat.  Add: 

liquid  from  2    (No.  2)    cans  of  peas 
sliced  artichoke  hearts 

Cover  and  simmer  about  30  minutes.  Add  peas,  sim- 
mer 5  minutes  longer.  Season  to  taste  with  salt  and 
pepper. 

ROMAINE  SALAD 

Makes  6  portions. 

Wash  and  crisp  2  heads  of  romaine.  Drain  well,  or 
dry.  Tear  into  pieces  and  place  in  a  garlic-rubbed 
salad  bowl.  Add  1  avocado  peeled  and  cut  into  wedges, 
if  desired,  or  sprinkle  with  grated  Parmesan  cheese. 

To  prepare  dressing,  place  following  in  a  bottle: 


1  cup  olive  oil 
Yi  cup   wine  vinegar 

2  teaspoons  salt 

1  teaspoon  white  pepper 
1  teaspoon  paprika 
Yz  teaspoon  dry  mustard 


dash  cayenne 

1  teaspoon   Worcestershire 
sauce 

V-i.  teaspoon  sugar 

2  cloves  peeled  garlic 
(can  be  omitted) 

Shake  well,  pour  a  little  over  romaine  just  before 
serving.  Toss  well,  adding  more  dressing,  if  needed. 

LEMON  AND  LIME  ICE 

Makes  4-6  portions. 

Combine,  and  stir  until  mixed: 

1  teaspoon  unflavored  gelatin  Yi  cup  light  corn  syrup 
IY2  cups  water  %  cup  sugar 

Place  over  low  heat,  bring  to  a  simmer  and  cook  for 
3  minutes.  Prepare  and  strain  juice  from: 
2  limes  1  lemon 

Add  to  sugar  mixture  with  a  dash  of  salt.  Pour  into 
freezing  tray  and  put  in  refrigerator,  in  freezer  section 
or  with  control  set  to  coldest  point.  When  frozen  to  a 
mush,  remove  to  a  cold  bowl,  whip  until  foamy,  return 
to  tray  and  freeze  until  firm.  Cover  tray  with  metal 
foil  and  return  freezer  control  to  storage  temperature. 


47 


HE-MAN'S   HOLIDA 


Jim  and  Virginia  Arness  enjoy  an 
occasional  "vacation  from  marriage' 
— and  love  the  reunions  even  more 

By  PEER  J.  OPPENHEIMER 


Clad  in   blue  jeans,   rainbow-hued   sports   shirt, 
sandals,  and  wide-brimmed  straw  hat,  Jim  Arness 
strolled  down  Kalakaua  Avenue  in  Honolulu.     Stop- 
ping in  front  of  one  of  the  more  fashionable  stores  on 
Oahu  Island,  he  ran  into  an  old  friend  from  Hollywood. 
"Jim,  old  boy,  it's  good  to  see  you,"  the  other  man  cried 
out. 

-  "Good  to  see  you,  too,"  Jim  agreed. 
"What'ya    doing    here?"     (Continued    on    page    84) 

James  Arness  is  Marshal  Dillon  in  Gunsmoke,  on  CBS-TV,  Sat.,  10 
P.M.  EDT,  sponsored  by  L&M  Cigarettes  and  Remington  Rand. 


48 


Sauce  for  the  gander:  Jim's  had  his  outing  "away  from 
it  all,"  insists  that  Virginia  have  a  holiday,  too.  But 
Craig,  Rolf  and  Jenny  Lee  are  somewhat  skeptical  of  his 
housekeeping  talents — the  Old  West  was  never  like  this! 


Praise  be  for  the  beach,  only  a  mile  from  home!  That 
should  keep  the  young  'uns  busy  for  most  of  the  morning. 
So  Jim  piles  'em  into  the  car — along  with  a  young  pal  of 
Jenny  Lee's,  bathing  gear,  and  "Major,"  their  shepherd. 


Back  from  their  swim,  it's  into  the 
washer  for  their  beach  wear — though 
Jim  allows  he  knows  a  lot  more  about 
a  horse  than  a  new-fangled  machine. 


Like  many  a  "nomad,"  Jim  fancies 
his  own  cooking.  But  his  hamburgers 
take  time.  You  can't  blame  a  hungry 
horde    for    raiding    the    refrigerator! 


No  man — nomad  or  not — enjoys  dish- 
washing. Even  Jenny  Lee,  temporarily 
the  only  woman  of  the  house,  isn't 
too  happy  helping  with  such  a  chore. 


Dad  helps  daughter  with  her  skates. 
They  get  along  fine,  any  time.  But 
nothing  can  beat  the  day  when  Mom 
comes  home  again  and  takes  over,  for 
an  outdoor  spread — while  Jim  "r'ars 
back"  and  relaxes  as  a  he-man  should. 


TV  daddy:  On  The  Danny  Thomas  Show,  Sherry  and  young  Rusty  Ho- 
mer are  children  of  the  great  comedy  star.  Script  recently  had  the 
youngsters  playing  Cupid  to  help  Danny  pick  a  new  wife  (Marjorie 
Lord,  below  at  left) — a  situation  Sherry  had  really  lived  five  years  ago. 


Adopted! 

Sherry  Jackson  has  two  wonderful 
dads — on  The  Danny  Thomas  Shoiv 
and  at  home — and  both  came  into 
her  young  life  just  in  recent  years 

By  MAURINE  REMENIH 


T^r-7-HEN  The  Danny  Thomas  Show  began  its 
\\/  fifth  season  this  fall,  Danny's  TV  off- 
spring, Terry  and  Rusty,  were  in  the 
throes  of  adjusting  to  life  with  their  new  step- 
mother, played  by  Marjorie  Lord.  It  was  a 
new  and  different  idea  for  a  television  series, 
and  particularly  so  because  the  children  had 
a  hand  in  picking  out  their  stepmother. 

The  switch  on  the  standard  story  line  may 
have  been  a  new  one  for  television  audiences, 
but  it  was  old  stuff  for  Sherry  Jackson,  who 
plays  Terry  on  the  series.  Step-parents  are 
nothing  new  to  her — she's  had  a  stepfather  for 
five  years  now.  And  the  script  writers  may 
have  thought  they  had  an  original  idea  when 
they  had  Terry  and  Rusty  engineering  the 
match  between  Danny  and  his  new  wife — but 
Sherry  herself  put  a  similar  plan  into  action 
in  her  own  household  more  than  five  years  ago. 

Before  Sherry  was  five,  her  father  was  killed 
in  an  automobile  accident.  Her  mother  was 
left  to  rear  the  three  children  as  best  she 
could.  Besides  Sherry,  there  were  two  boys — 
Curtis,  five  years  older  than  Sherry,  and 
Gary,  two  years  younger  than  his  sister. 

The  first  year  or  so  after  Mr.  Jackson's 
death,  things  were  pretty  rugged,  financially 
speaking.  Then,  one  day,  the  driver  of  a  sight- 
seeing bus,  himself  an  ex-actor,  spotted 
Sherry  and  liked  her  cute  grin.  He  suggested 
that  Mrs.  Jackson  take  Sherry  to  an  agent 
who  specialized  in  juvenile  talent.  The  young 
widow  was  highly  dubious  that  anything 
would  come  of  it.  But,  figuring  she  had  noth- 
ing to  lose,  she  followed  the  suggestion. 

Thus,  Sherry's  debut  into  movies  was 
launched  at  the  age  of  six.  There  followed 
some  thirty  pictures,  including  such  notable 
ones  as  "Miracle  of  Fatima,"  "The  Lion  and 
the  Horse,"  and  "Trouble  Along  the  Way."  In 
addition,  Sherry  has  been  in  the  cast  of  the 
Danny  Thomas  show  since  its  beginning.  And 


Continued 


► 


.JL 


iFather 


That  phone's  the  only  thing  about  Sherry  her 
own  "new"  dad  doesn't  admire — he  can't  get 
it  long  enough  to  call  his  studio!  But  he  thinks 
she's  mighty  cute,  all  dressed  up  for  a  date. 


Sherry  chose  Monte  Pittman  to  be  her  stepfather  before  her  widowed 
mother,  Rita,  had  even  met  him.  She  introduced  them,  was  flower  girl 
at  their  wedding,  now  takes  pride  in  part-ownership  of  baby  brother 
Robert    John    (pictured    below    between    mother    and    grandmother). 


Adopted  Father 


(Continued) 


Sherry  lures  Monte  out  for  a  walk.  Sherry  and  brother  Gary  once  did  this 
to  test  Monte  as  a  stepfather-candidate — but  their  "trial  run"  backfired! 


Sherry  Jackson  is  Terry  in  The  Danny  Thomas  Show,  which  will  be  seen  over  CBS-TV, 
Mondays,  at  9  P.M.  EDT,  beginning  October  7,  as  sponsored  by  General  Foods  Corp. 


she's  appeared  on  more  single  television 
programs  than  she  can  remember — Ed 
Sullivan,  Jack  Carson,  Fireside  Theater, 
Private  Secretary,  Lux  Video,  Roy 
Rogers,  Gene  Autry — name  it,  and  she's 
probably  been  on  it  at  least  once. 

It  was  back  when  Sherry  was  about 
ten  years  old  that  Montgomery  Pittman 
made  his  entry  on  the  scene.  Sherry  was 
working  in  "The  Lion  and  the  Horse,"  in 
which  Steve  Cochran  was  playing  the 
male  lead.  Monte,  a  former  actor  turned 
screen  writer,  was  a  pal  of  Cochran's, 
and  visited  the  set  often.  Sherry  fell  for 
him — hard.  She  decided  that  this  was 
going  to  be  her  new  stepfather. 

"Sherry  would  mention  this  friend  of 
Steve's  whom  she'd  met  on  the  set,  but 
I  never  paid  much  attention,"  Rita  Pitt- 
man  recalls.  "For  several  years,  all  three 
of  the  children  had  been  working  hard 
to  marry  me  off,  and  I'd  grown  accus- 
tomed to  their  big  buildups  for  whatever 
new  candidate  they'd  picked. 

"I  remembered  humoring  Gary  once, 
when  he  insisted  that  I  meet  the  driver 
of  his  school  bus.  I  knew  what  he  had 
in  mind,  though  he  thought  he  was  being 
awfully  subtle  about  the  whole  thing. 
When  I  did  meet  the  driver,  it  was  all 
I  could  do  to  keep  from  giggling.  He 
was  every  bit  as  nice  as  Gary  had 
claimed,  but  he  couldn't  have  been  a  day 
over  twenty,  and  I  got  this  hilarious 
mental  picture  of  him  'fathering'  three 
youngsters  aged  8,  10,  and  15.  But  the 
children  were  serious  about  it.  They 
wanted  a  father  (Continued  on  page  76) 


Monte's    writing    and    directing    talents 
are  of  real  help  to  the  teen-age  actress. 


ri2 


Left  to  right:  Sherry,  Rita,  Monte,  baby  Robert  John  and  brother  Gary.  Word  games  are  a  popular 
pastime  in  a  family  which  has  two  "professional"  members  vitally  interested  in  direct  communication 
of  ideas.    They  make  up  crossword  puzzles,  play  their  own  version  of  a   strictly   personal   quiz  program. 


Ironing   isn't   Sherry's   favorite   sport.     She'd    rather  watch   television 
— if  she  can't  be  on  the  phone,  chatting  the  hours  away  with  friends. 


Best   of   all,    she    likes    to    be    with    little 
Robert  John,  guiding  his  uncertain  steps. 


MASON 


<■■; 

BSSE 

Home 

much  t 
family 


by  the  sea  is  a  haven  of  peace,  after  many  adventures  and 
ragedy.  Here  Raymond  relaxes,  entertains  his  friends,  shares 
kes  with   nephew   and   niece,    Frank  Vitti   and    Phyllis  Zi 


Physically,  Raymond  Burr  fits 
Erie  Stanley  Gardner's  description 
to  a  T.   Emotionally,  he  has 
lived  the  lives  of  ten  exciting  men 

By  PAULINE  TOWNSEND 


When  mystery  fans  all  over  the  country 
turn  their  television  sets  to  CBS  chan- 
nels for  the  debut  of  the  network's  long- 
heralded  Perry  Mason  series,  they  will  see 
in  the  title  role  a  man  whose  life  has  been  as 
colorful,  as  adventure -packed  as  that  of  Erie 
Stanley  Gardner's  famed  fictional  attorney  - 
sleuth  himself. 

His  name  is  Raymond  Burr.  He  is  forty-one, 
his  185  pounds  tightly  stretched  along  a  mas- 
sive six-foot-two  frame.  Piercing  blue  eyes 
challenge  you  from  beneath  expressive,  dark 
eyebrows.  He  controls  his  voice  in  conversa- 
tion (otherwise,  it  would  boom  at  you). 
About  his  long  and  varied  life,  he  talks  easily 
and  confidently. 

"I  never  doubted  that  I  would  succeed,"  he 
says,  after  recounting  a  series  of  moments  in 
his   life   when   he    (Continued   on   page  74) 


Food  once  almost  cut  short  Burr's  career 
— he  enjoys  eating,  is  an  excellent  chef, 
now     raises    much     of    his     menu    ingredients. 


Lawyer  Perry  Mason  (according  to  author  Gardner)  is  a  fighter — "happy- 
go-lucky,  carefree,  two-fisted."  That's  Raymond.  Barbara  Hale  is  also 
well    cast   as    Perry's    quick-witted,    attractive    secretary,    Delia    Street. 


Raymond  Burr  is  Perry  Mason  in  the  new  hour-long  dramatic  mystery  series  seen  on 
CBS-TV,  starting  Sat.,  Sept.  21,  7:30  P.M.  EDT,  as  sponsored  by  Purex  and  others. 


Seldom  in  one  place  for  long,  Burr  enjoys 
being  close  to  the  earth  today — and  is 
even  raising  livestock.    Duck  (below)  is  Louie. 


Logs  for  his  own  hearth — evenings  can  get 
chilly,  there  by  the  sea.  But  new  home  and 
career  bring  a  glow  to  a  wanderer's  heart. 


\  1 


m 


Can  you  be  too  understanding  for  your  own  good  \ 


Your  heart  says,  this  is  the  man  you  love,  all  that  matters  is  your  happiness 
together.  But  now  he's  deeply  troubled.  He  needs  time  to  work  things  out. 
Do  you  quietly  put  aside  your  yearnings  and  wait,  knowing  that  "just  a  little 
while"  might  mean  forever?  When  you're  Wendy  Warren,  you  can't  do  it  any 
other  way.  Your  tears  are  secret  tears.  You  face  tomorrow  with  faith.  You  can 
get  the  whole  story- even  while  you  work -when  you  listen  to  daytime  radio,; 
Hear  WENDY  WARREN  AND  THE  NEWS  on  the  CBS  RADIO  NETWORK. 

Monday  through  Friday.  See  your  local  paper  for  station  and  timet 


Anne  Burrs  slim  figure 
begins  with  her 
ivise  selection  of  meats 
and  groceries,  continues 
with  her  original  approach 
to  low-calorie  cooking 


By 
HARRIET 

SEGMAN 


The  slender  TV  octress  climbs  the  stairs  to  her  apartment,  carrying  the  raw 
materials  of  health  and  beauty — fresh  fruit,  greens,  lean  meat,  poultry,  fish. 


-A.  ISoa/ia/ty  of  sl  Cook 


"■low  do  you  keep  a  husband  happy 
**  and  a  feminine  figure  pared  to 
slim  TV  size — on  the  same  diet?  Anne 
Burr,  seen  daily  on  As  The  World 
Turns  over  CBS-TV,  has  the  answer. 
Her  technique?  No  butter  or  fat  in 
cooking.  Are  the  results  dry  and 
tasteless?  Not  on  your  taste -buds! 
Anne's  methods  make  delicious  sense 
for  every  calorie- counter.  To  broil 
chicken,  she  rubs  a  cut-up  broiler 
with  half  a  lemon  ("My  greatest  single 
prop  is  lemon  juice,"  she  says)  and 
bastes  with  a  beef  or  chicken-extract 
cube  dissolved  in  a  half-cup  boiling 
water.  The  chicken  browns  more 
slowly  this  way,  so  cook  it  a  little 
longer  and  on  a  lower  shelf  than  if 
rubbed   with  fat.   For   "Burr  London 


Broil,"  Anne  uses  a  slice  of  round 
steak,  instead  of  the  fattier  sirloin, 
seasons  it  with  meat  tenderizer  for 
at  least  an  hour,  then  sears  it  in  a  hot 
skillet  without  fat.  When  done,  the 
meat  is  sliced  diagonally.  "The  secret 
is  a  good  sharp  knife,"  confides  Anne. 
The  calorie-trap  with  fish,  she  feels, 
is  the  accompanying  butter,  hollan- 
daise  or  mayonnaise  sauce.  She 
poaches  or  steams  fish  gently  in  a 
little  water,  so  that  it  stays  moist  and 
needs  only  lemon  juice  for  garnish. 
To  "sauce"  veal  or  fish,  she  simmers 
chopped  tomato,  onion  and  green 
pepper  until  soft,  or  uses  a  can  of 
stewed  tomatoes  prepared  with  pep- 
pers and  onions.  She  flavors  vegetables 
with    canned     or    fresh    mushrooms, 


grated  onion,  buttermilk,  or  lemon 
juice.  "And  I  always  have  fresh  or 
dried  mint  in  the  house — delicious  on 
peas  and  carrots."  An  herb  collector, 
Anne  counts  on  their  sparkling  flavor 
for  menu  excitement,  sprinkles  basil 
on  tomatoes,  tarragon  on  green  salads 
(instead  of  oil  dressing),  marjoram 
on  lamb  and  veal  and  chervil  on  fish. 
She  rolls  tiny  boiled  potatoes,  fresh  or 
canned,  in  parsley  or  fresh  or  dried 
dill.  Dessert:  Ices,  fresh  fruit,  Jell-0 
with  dietetic-pack  fruit.  Lunch  used 
to  be  a  problem,  with  sandwiches 
ordered  during  rehearsals.  Now  Anne 
carries  hard-cooked  eggs,  left-over 
chicken  or  sliced  meat,  with  a  small 
tomato,  celery,  carrot  sticks,  lettuce, 
a    few    rye    crackers    and    an    apple. 


57 


Entertainment  Press  Conference:  Herb  Kamm,  Mary  Margaret  McBride  and  Art  Ford  put  Eartha  Kitt  on  the  spot. 


By  CLAIRE  SAFRAN 


Both   Herb   Kamm  and   Mary   Margaret   McBride   began   on   news- 
papers.   He's  an  editor  now,  but  she  switched  to  the  spoken  word. 


5f 


Socrates  had  a  method  for  it.  To 
get  to  the  truth,  ask  questions. 
In  a  lineage  as  direct  as  the 
questions  they  ask  are  the  panel  of 
interviewers  on  Night  Beat  and  En- 
tertainment Press  Conference.  The 
questions — the  basic  one  is  "why" — 
are  hard-hitting  and  searching.  The 
camera,  close  up  and  recording 
every  expression,  is  itself  an  inter- 
rogator. .  .  .  On  Night  Beat,  the 
guests  may  come  from  any  walk  of 
life.  To  get  to  the  core  of  their 
stories,  John  Wingate  does  the  large 
share  of  the  interviews,  with  Al 
Morgan  handling  most  of  the  rest. 
For  an  inside  view  of  show  business, 
Entertainment  Press  Conference  is 
made  up  of  a  varying  panel  of  three, 
with  Herb  Kamm,  Art  Ford,  Bill 
Kemp,  Henry  Morgan,  Mary  Mar- 
garet McBride  and  Al  Morgan  turn- 
ing up  most  frequently.  .  .  .  Many's 
the  guest  who's  squirmed  under  the 
tough  questions  asked  on  both 
shows.  Still,  the  top  names  in  all 
fields  of  endeavor  have  appeared. 
"Some  have  to  be  coaxed,"  says 
John  Wingate  of  his  Night  Beat 
guests,  "but  there  are  also  some  who 
are  hurt  that  they  haven't  been  asked 
before."  Tall,  slender,  with  sensitive 
good  looks,  Wingate  claims  his  theory 
of  interviewing  is  simple.  "Just  ask 
them  the  hard  questions,  the  direct 
ones,"  he  says.  "If  they  don't  an- 
swer, then  they  expose  themselves 


Night  Beat  is  seen  Tues.  through  Fri.,  from  11  P.M.  to  midnight,  as  sponsored  by  Bardahl,  Parliament  Cigarettes,  Cott  Beverages, 
American  Chicle  Co.  Entertainment  Press  Conference  is  seen  Tues.,  at  8:30  P.M.  Both  on  Channel  5,  WABD  (Du  Mont*  in  New  York. 


Night  Beat:  At  an  hour  when  people  are  more  off  guard,  John  Wingate  keeps  cameras  close  up,  questions  tough. 


by  what  they  don't  say.  In  other 
words,  nail  them."  Actually,  Win- 
gate's  manner  is  quiet,  often  gentle, 
but,  for  anyone  with  something  he'd 
rather  conceal,  there's  a  disquieting 
way  of  looking  his  vis-a-vis  straight 
in  the  eye.  Born  thirty-two  years 
ago  in  Framingham,  Massachusetts, 
he  took  his  degree  at  Harvard.  He 
wanted  to  write,  "but  not  necessarily 
news."  This,  though,  is  what  he 
wrote  and  reported,  first  for  a 
Worcester  paper,  then  for  the  A.P., 
and  now  for  WOR,  where  he  deliv- 
ers the  News  Extra  at  6:15  and 
7:20  P.M.  and  does  The  John  Win- 
gate  Show  from  8:35  to  9  P.M.  daily. 
This  last  show  features  hard-hitting 
editorials  and  the  same  sort  of  prob- 
ing interviews  as  on  Night  Beat, 
with  both  shows  designed  "to  bring 
to  light  things  that  are  little  known." 
John  won  a  George  Peabody  Award 
for  his  expose  of  a  vicious  narcotics 
racket  in  New  York,  has  published 
fiction  and  such  criticism  as  "The 
Lack  of  Humor  in  F.  Scott  Fitzger- 
ald" in  Kenyon  Review.  His  bach- 
elor apartment  is  furnished  in 
French  and  English  Directoire  and 
his  hobby  is  cooking.  At  Toots 
Shor's,  he  consumed  eggs  Benedict, 
then  hazarded  that  he  could  do  as 
well,  or  better,  with  the  sauce.  .  .  . 
Best-known  for  his  novel  and 
screenplay,  "The  Great  Man,"  Al 
Morgan  has  an  interview  technique 


Author  Al  Morgan  rocked  the  radio  industry  with  "The  Great  Man." 
With  Wingate,  Night  Beat  director  Wes  Kenney,  he  still  hits  hard. 


Continued 


59 


(§>q    Tfttf*\TF>ftZLGA   Ittncz*   Sl<2><fe    ©IpC2>li 


(Continued) 


which  is  as  relentless  as  the  way  the 
figures  mount  up  on  his  long  and 
varied  career  in  broadcasting.  Born 
and  educated  in  New  York  City,  Al 
sold  his  first  radio  script  to  a  net- 
work when  he  was  17.  Since  then, 
he  estimates  that  he  has  written  or 
produced  some  5,000  radio  and  TV 
programs.  Al  has  been  an  announc- 
er, director,  producer,  actor,  news- 
caster, quizmaster  and  script-writ- 
er. He  is  married  to  the  former 
actress,  Martha  Falconer,  and,  with 
their  three  children,  they  make  their 
home  in  Bronxville.  .  .  .  "The  Lord 
has  blessed  me  with  an  ability  to 
speak  off  the  cuff,"  says  Herb 
Karam.  "It's  something  you're  born 
with,  like  black  hair  or  red  hair." 
The  ability,  so  handy  on  Entertain- 
ment Press  Conference,  has  made 
Herb  the  unofficial  jester  of  the 
World-Telegram  and  Sun  office, 
where  he's  worked  for  14  years  and 
is  now  editor  of  its  Saturday  Mag- 
azine. A  New  Jersey  native,  Herb 
wanted  to  be  an  accountant.  "I'm  so 
glad  now,"  he  says,  "that  there  was 
no  money  for  me  to  go  to  college 
and  study  that."  Instead,  he  got  him- 
self a  job  as  a  stringer  on  a  local 
newspaper,  moved  upward  steadily 
to  his  present  job.  He  has  done 
much  radio  and  TV  work  in  the  past 
ten  years  and  is  a  frequent  panelist 
on  CBS-TV's  Let's  Find  Out.  He 
married  his  high-school  sweetheart 
at  19  and  they  have  three  sons: 
Larry,  17,  Lewis,  12,  and  Bobby,  10. 
"If  I  had  it  to  do  all  over  again,  I'd 
marry  the  same  girl,"  he  says,  "and 
if  she  were  twins,  I'd  commit  big- 
amy." .  .  .  Still  unmarried,  but  very 
eligible,  Art  Ford  has  been  asking 


60 


It's  unrehearsed,  gloats  Bill  Kemp.  He 
prefers    ad    libs    to    authors'     scripts. 


Says  Art  Ford  of  guests  he  quizzes  on 
Conference,    "They're    asking    for    it." 


questions  for  a  long  time  as  WNEW's 
multi-talented  deejay.  "But,  there 
the  star  is  my  guest  and  I  have  to 
be  polite,"  he  says.  "On  Entertain- 
ment Press  Conference,  they're  ask- 
ing for  it."  Art's  mother,  Mary  Eliza- 
beth Ford,  was  one  of  radio's  first 
woman  commentators  and  Art  liter- 
ally was  brought  up  in  a  radio 
studio.  Art,  still  in  his  teens,  became 
New  York's  unofficial  night-time 
mayor  on  Milkman's  Matinee.  Now, 
on  Make  Believe  Ballroom — heard 
Monday  through  Saturday  from  10 
to  11:30  P.M.  and  from  5:30  to  7 
P.M. — he  enjoys  the  largest  audience 
of  any  local  radio  voice.  Art's  apart- 
ment has  a  private  control  room  and 
also  a  private  zoo.  He's  looking  for 
"the  perfect  pet,"  has  tried  a  cinna- 
mon, monkey,  ocelot,  antelope  and 
dik-dik,  and  has  a  lion  cub  on  the 
way.  When  Art  closes  the  door  on 
the  nets  and  traps  for  recapturing 
frisky  pets,  he  heads  for  Greenwich 
Village.  "This  is  my  hobby,"  says 
Art,  who  wrote,  directed  and  filmed 
the  upcoming  "Johnny  Gunman" 
along  his  favorite  streets.  Starting 
this  month,  on  Channel  5,  he'll  share 
the  folk  music,  bongos,  dancing,  art 
and  new  talent  he  loves  on  Art 
Ford's  Greenwich  Village  Party.  .  .  . 
Henry  Morgan's  favorite  corner  has 
a  cigar  store  on  it.  It's  the  mythical 
intersection  from  which  he  used  to 
broadcast  daily  portions  of  anarchy. 
Today,  the  satirist  travels  the  panel 
circuit  and  winds  up  his  week  as  a 
Monitor  communicator.  Born  Henry 
Lerner  von  Ost,  Morgan  claims  the 
date  was  the  day  before  All  Fools 
Day,  1915,  in  New  York  City.  At  18, 
he  was  the  youngest  announcer  in 
the  business,  but  a  few  years  later  he 
lost  a  job  when  he  included  another 
announcer's  name  on  a  list  of  miss- 
ing persons  during  a  newscast.  He's 
been  the  terror  of  sponsors  and 
broadcasting  big-wigs  ever  since. . . . 
Less  cutting  than  some  of  her  fellow 


panel  members,  Mary  Margaret  Mc- 

Bride  is  friendly,  homey — but  she's 
also  from  Missouri.  She's  been  called 
"the  first  lady  of  broadcasting"  and 
is  the  only  radio  personality  whose 
fans  ever  jammed  Yankee  Stadium 
and  Madison  Square  Garden  on 
her  anniversaries.  Her  twenty-three 
years  in  broadcasting  began  with  her 
rebellion  against  the  cooking-clean- 
ing-children format  on  women's 
shows.  Instead,  as  "Martha  Deane" 
and  then  as  herself,  Mary  Margaret 
McBride  interviewed  the  news- 
worthy, talked  about  herself  and 
presented  her  listeners  with  the  in- 
teresting, the  amusing,  the  unusual. 
...  As  an  actor,  Bill  Kemp  mouthed 
the  words  of  other  people.  He's 
happier  framing  his  own  questions 
of  his  show-business  confreres  or 
ad-libbing  his  own  sentences  on  his 
"live"  music  and  guests  show,  from 
noon  to  two  on  WNEW.  Bill  was  in 
London  awaiting  his  discharge  when 
he  met  Sir  Laurence  Olivier,  who 
was  struck  by  the  handsome,  well- 
spoken  Canadian.  He  offered  Bill  his 
first  acting  role  in  "Born  Yester- 
day." Back  in  Canada,  Bill  got  him- 
self a  radio  job,  because  "they  liked 
my  voice  and  besides,  I  worked 
cheap."  In  the  States,  he's  toured 
with  national  companies  of  several 
hits  and  has  been  seen  on  almost 
every  major  dramatic  TV*  show.  Bill, 
who  calls  himself  "the  poor  man's 
Jack  Paar,"  plays  the  piano  and  also 
sings,  "more  a  joke,  really."  He  lives 
in  a  three-room  hotel-apartment  and 
refuses  to  keep  a  pet.  "I  have  enough 
trouble  living  with  myself,"  he  says. 
Of  Entertainment  Press  Conference, 
he  says,  "Anything  can  happen."  . . . 


Here's   Morgan,    but   Henry   finds   this 
whatsis  subtle  as  one  of  his  own  gags. 


Pay-TV:  What  Does  It  Mean  To  You? 


(Continued  from  page  17) 
pay  his  advertising  investment  and  make 
him  a  tidy  profit  on  his  products.  Because 
the  advertising  cost  is  thus  passed  on  to 
the  consumer,  the  pay-TV  advocates  ob- 
ject to  the  term  "free"  television.  Never- 
theless, the  fact  remains  that  no  one  has 
ever  had  to  feed  an  automobile  or  any  ad- 
vertised product  into  a  decoder  in  order  to 
watch  either  the  Welk  or  the  Sullivan 
shows. 

For  the  pay-TV  viewpoint  in  program- 
ming, switch  from  long  division  to  multi- 
plication signs.  Here  the  show  itself — not 
cars  nor  nail  polish  nor  hair  lacquer — is 
the  product.  You  pay  to  see  the  program. 
American  Research  Bureau  estimated  that, 
in  that  given  week,  the  Welk  show  was 
seen  in  about  twelve  million  homes.  If 
figures  fascinate  you,  you  will  enjoy  com- 
puting what  kind  of  fortune  it  might  gross 
on  a  single  Saturday  night  if  each  of  those 
families  had  paid  a  dollar  ...  or  fifty  cents 
...  or  even  a  dime. 

Millions  Multiply  Fast 

If  the  home  TV  set  is  to  carry  a  toll 
charge,  there  is  big,  big  money  at  stake. 
When  NBC -TV  won  what  was  then  TV's 
largest  audience  with  its  production  of 
"Peter  Pan,"  Commander  E.  F.  McDonald, 
Jr.,  president  of  Zenith,  estimated  that,  if 
each  family  had  paid  twenty-five  cents  to 
view  it,  the  network,  the  producers  and 
the  stars  would  have  grossed  five  million 
dollars  to  divide  among  themselves. 

Commander  McDonald  was  one  of  the 
first  to  be  concerned  about  the  big,  big 
cost  of  television  production  and  to  seek  a 
way  to  pass  this  cost  on  to  the  viewer.  An 
inventive  electronic  genius,  he  built  Chi- 
cago's first  TV  station,  away  back  when. 

In  the  30's,  when  CBS  and  NBC  were 
happily  pumping  a  daytime  drama  onto 
their  radio  networks  every  quarter  hour 
— and  paying,  as  production  costs,  only  the 
price  of  having  an  actor  walk  up  to  a 
microphone  in  a  bare  studio  and,  by  words 
alone,  paint  exciting  scenes  and  action — 
the  Commander  was  finding  out,  via  the 
Zenith-owned  and  operated  television  sta- 
tion, that  cameras  eat  dollars. 

On  TV,  even  in  those  early  days,  you 
couldn't  merely  say,  "Justin  is  seated  at  a 
table."  You  had  to  have  a  table,  a  chair,  a 
backdrop  and  a  Justin.  The  man  cost 
nothing — TV  actors  were  not  paid  in  that 
era — but  someone  had  to  buy,  beg  or  bor- 
row the  props  and  move  them  in  place. 
That  cost  money.  Money  which  Zenith 
had  to  make  through  sales  of  radios  and 
other  equipment.  Because  the  station  was 
experimental,  no  sponsor  could  buy  time. 

Zenith  Was  First  Advocate 

McDonald  continually  assured  the  pub- 
lic that  television  could  never  draw  its 
support  from  advertising  sponsors  (as  had 
radio  from  its  inception).  In  a  1947  letter 
to  the  city  editor  of  The  Chicago  Daily 
News,  he  wrote:  "Many  times  since  1931  I 
have  told  you  not  to  worry  about  the 
American  advertisers'  being  able  to  fi- 
nance the  cost  of  shows  necessary  to  make 
television  a  national  institution.  I  have 
said  that  television  required  a  box  office 
to  pay  for  the  type  of  programming  that 
would  give  it  mass  appeal,  and  events  have 
borne  me  out." 

To  supply  TV  with  a  box  office,  Com- 
mander McDonald  invented  a  scrambling- 
unscrambling  gadget  which  he  first  called 
"Phonovision"  and  later  changed  to 
"Phonevision."  In  1951,  Zenith,  which  had 
not  entered  the  commercial  televising 
race,  gained  F.C.C.  consent  to  test  Phone- 


vision  for  ninety  days  in  Chicago.  They 
lent  Zenith  sets,  equipped  with  unscram- 
blers,  to  three  hundred  families.  These 
test  families  then  paid  a  $1.00  charge  each 
time  they  wanted  to  see  a  movie.  A  series 
of  pre-1948  films  was  used. 

American  curiosity  and  American  in- 
ventiveness being  what  it  is,  those  Chi- 
cagoans  who  were  shut  out  were  soon 
swapping  methods  to  peek  through 
Zenith's  knothole.  Some  advocated  view- 
ing through  the  whirling  blades  of  an 
electric  fan.  Others  favored  jiggling  a 
comb  in  front  of  your  eyes.  Neither  meth- 
od was  very  successful.  Young  men  with 
Army  and  Navy  radar  training  had  quite  a 
bit  to  say  about  how  easy  it  would  be  to 
whip  up  an  unscrambler  of  their  own,  but 
the  ninety-day  test  did  not  allow  much 
working  time. 

Phonevision,  ScriberVision  and  Teleme- 
ter are  the  systems  concerned  in  the  pres- 
ent petitions  to  the  F.C.C.  for  full  field 
tests.  You  can  explain  their  mechanics 
(to  anyone  other  than  an  electronics  engi- 
neer or  an  inquisitive  husband)  by  the 
simple  statement:  They  work.  Proponents 
of  each  assert  their  patented  gadgets  are 
foolproof. 

Both  picture  and  sound  arrive  in  your 
home  as  scrambled  as  an  egg.  Video 
shivers.  Audio  quivers.  You  put  this  par- 
ticular humpty-dumpty  back  together 
again  by  means  of  their  decoder  and  your 
cash.  Any  child  who  can  dial  a  telephone, 
or  any  housewife  who  can  change  speeds 
on  an  electric  mixer,  can  operate  it  on 
first  try.  Follow  directions  and  the  picture 
and  sound  come  clear. 

Details  for  transferring  the  cash  differ. 
Phonevision  originally  linked  the  tele- 
phone to  the  TV  set.  The  local  telephone 
company  was  supposed  to  add  the  cost  of 
your  entertainment  to  your  phone  bill, 
collect  from  you  and  remit  to  the  broad- 
caster. In  the  1951  Chicago  test,  however, 
the  rate-conscious,  cost-conscious  Illinois 
Bell  Telephone  Company  balked.  Zenith 
then  had  to  set  up  facilities  to  take  its 
own  orders,  send  out  its  own  bills  and 
make  its  own  collections.  Today,  its  de- 
coder works  on  a  dial  system  and  there 
seems  to  be  a  multiple  choice  in  methods 
of  payment. 

Cash  Clears  the  Scramble 

Skiatron  depends  on  automation  and  the 
United  States  mail.  The  subscriber  feeds 
a  program  card  into  the  slot  of  the  decoder 
and  pushes  a  button  which  punches  the 
card  which  completes  the  circuit  which 
unscrambles  the  show.  Come  the  end  of 
the  month,  you  mail  in  your  card.  (They 
don't  say  what  happens  if  Junior  or  Tow- 
ser  chews  it  up.)  On  receipt,  an  I.B.M. 
machine  sorts  the  cards  and  zips  out  your 
bill.  Quick  as  you  send  in  your  check, 
you  get  a  new  card. 

Having  long  operated  theaters,  Par- 
amount Pictures,  owner  of  Telemeter, 
knows  there  is  no  substitute  for  cash  at 
the  box  office,  even  when  that  box  office 
is  in  your  own  living  room.  Telemeter  is 
calibrated  from  five  cents  to  two  dollars. 
You  pop  the  price  of  the  program,  in  coin, 
into  Paramount's  parlor  piggy-bank.  If 
you  lack  the  correct  change,  just  overpay. 
Telemeter  will  record  your  credit.  Once 
a  month,  the  man  comes  around  to  pick  up 
your  dough.  He  also  has,  through  your 
agreement  with  Telemeter,  the  right  to  in- 
spect your  home  to  make  sure  no  neigh- 
bor is  hitch-hiking  his  set  on  your 
decoder  and  that  your  family  holds  no  un- 
sung electronic  genius  who  can  change  a 
wire  and  cheat  the  box. 

No  one  has  yet  mentioned  who  will  have 


to  give  the  government  its  due.  It  could 
be  that  you  will  also  pay  a  theater  admis- 
sions tax  to  enter  your  own  living  room 
and  watch  your  own  screen. 

What  NBC  and  CBS  have  up  their  cor- 
porate sleeves  to  garner  their  shares  of  the 
revenue,  when  pay-TV  becomes  a  reality, 
has  not  yet  been  announced.  The  trade 
takes  it  for  granted  "that  each  has  a  sys- 
tem, ready  to  go.  Although  they  are  out- 
spoken in  their  opposition  to  pay -TV,  it  is 
only  reasonable  to  presume  that  their  en- 
gineers can  scramble  a  picture  as  well  as 
the  next  fellow  and  that,  if  called  upon  to 
do  so,  their  sales-brains  would  find  a  way 
to  collect. 

At  American  Broadcasting — Paramount 
Theaters,  the  corporation  which  includes 
ABC-TV,  there  is  no  doubt  the  code  box 
exists.  In  June,  at  the  annual  meeting  of 
stockholders,  Leonard  Goldenson,  its  pres- 
ident, bitterly  attacked  pay-TV,  asserting 
that  it  would  only  result  in  the  public 
paying  for  the  same  kind  of  programs 
which  it  now  gets  for  free.  However,  back 
in  March,  AB-PT  authorized  another  of  its 
divisions,  Interstate  Circuits,  Inc.,  to  con- 
duct exploratory  investigations  and  made 
plans  to  test  closed-circuit  TV  in  Texas. 

"Closed  circuit"  systems  are  now  being 
tried  out  in  a  number  of  cities.  Theaters 
have  secured  rights  from  city  councils  to 
run  their  cables  through  the  streets.  Usu- 
ally this  is  done  in  association  with  the 
local  public  utility  company.  Families 
buying  the  service  attach  a  device  to  their 
television  sets  and  pay  a  fee  per  show  or  a 
monthly  charge.  In  addition  to  charging 
for  the  program,  some  proprietors  carry 
advertising — the  familiar  commercial 
which  pay-TV  advocates  have  long  im- 
plied would  never  sully  their  prepaid  air. 

Calls   Pay-TV   "Inevitable" 

Mr.  Barney  Balaban,  president  of  Par- 
amount Pictures,  told  his  stockholders, 
"There  are  many  persuasive  reasons  for 
believing  that  the  cable  approach  will  be 
more  effective  in  getting  pay-TV  off  the 
ground  quickly."  Pay-TV  is  inevitable, 
he  stated.  "It's  television  economics.  [TV] 
Production  costs  have  risen  astronomi- 
cally, TV  set  saturation  is  being  ap- 
proached and  the  problem  of  reconciling 
TV  ratings  with  higher  costs  to  the  spon- 
sor is  becoming  discouraging  to  adver- 
tisers." 

There  is  no  doubt  that  pay-TV  could 
make  money  for  its  proprietors,  but  would 
it  benefit  the  public? 

This  is  the  key  question  which  the 
F.C.C.  must  decide  before  authorizing  na- 
tionwide pay-TV.  Americans  have  a 
broadcasting  Bill  of  Rights  dating  back  to 
1928,  when  the  regulating  body  was  still 
designated  the  Federal  Radio  Commission. 
The  case,  for  those  'who  want  sources 
cited,  is  In  Re  Great  Lakes  Broadcasting 
Co.,  F.R.C.  Docket  No.  4900.    It  reads: 

"Broadcasting  stations  are  licensed  to 
serve  the  public  and  not  for  the  purpose  of 
furthering  the  private  or  selfish  interests 
of  individuals.  The  standard  of  public  in- 
terest, convenience  or  necessity  means 
nothing  if  it  does  not  mean  this  .  .  .  the 
entire  listening  public  within  the  service 
area  of  a  station  ...  is  entitled  to  service 
from  that  station.  In  a  sense  the  broad- 
casting station  may  be  regarded  as  a  sort 
of  mouthpiece  on  the  air  for  the  commu- 
nity it  serves,  over  which  its  public  events 
of  general  interest,  its  political  campaigns,  j 
its  election  results,  its  athletic  contests,  its  y 
orchestras  and  artists  and  discussions  of  R 
public  issues  may  be  broadcast.  If  the 
station  performs  its  duty  in  furnishing  a 
well-rounded  program,   the   rights   of  the 

61 


community  have  been  achieved." 

Commercial  radio  and  TV  have,  by  reg- 
ulation, a  built-in  conscience.  A  station 
holds  or  loses  its  license  according  to  the 
way  it  serves  public  interest,  convenience 
and  necessity. 

The  pay-TV  advocates  stake  their  claim 
and  promise  to  serve  public  interest,  con- 
venience and  necessity  on  three  points: 
(1)  Additional  income  will  permit  stations 
to  operate  in  areas  which  are  now  uneco- 
nomic. In  particular,  it  will  solve  the  UHF 
problem.  (2)  It  will  supply  programs 
which  TV  cannot  now  afford.  (3)  It  will  not 
interfere  with  free  TV.  It  will  be  only  a 
supplemental  service,  taking  fifteen  percent 
of  the  broadcast  time  of  certain  stations. 

Some  pretty  fancy  promises  and  some 
exceedingly  heated  rebuttals  have  been 
fired  from  both  sides.  How  many  more 
stations  could  go  into  service  is  a  ques- 
tion engineers  and  economists  can  battle 
out  from  now  on.  The  awful  basic  truth 
here  is  that  nature  made  TV  an  economic 
problem.  Whereas  radio  waves  follow  the 
curvature  of  the  earth,  VHF  waves  beam 
straight  and  UHF  even  straighter.  The 
earth's  curvature  starts  to  be  effective  in- 
terference at  the  distance  of  thirty-five 
miles  from  a  transmitter.  The  height  of 
the  transmitting  antenna  and  of  the  re- 
ceiving antenna  permit  some  extension, 
but,  sooner  or  later,  the  old  earth  itself  is 
going  to  get  in  the  way.  It  would  be  ideal 
if  there  could  be  a  television  station  every 
fifty  miles,  but,  in  some  of  the  vast 
stretches  of  the  United  States,  there 
wouldn't  be  5,000  people  to  support  it. 

Promises  vs.  Performance 

In  programming,  the  pay-TV  people 
speak  of  movie  premieres,  Broadway  first 
nights,  cultural  programs  and  sports.  To 
these  projections,  the  broadcasters  reply 
"What  could  you  do  that  we  haven't  al- 
ready done?"  The  supply  of  motion  pic- 
tures, they  point  out,  no  longer  is  limited 
to  those  British  wartime  epics  which  were 
put  together  with  a  sixpence  and  a  pray- 
er. Variety  estimated  on  May  1  that  Holly- 
wood has  sold  more  than  $150,000,000 
worth  of  films  to  television,  and  more  are 
being  put  on  the  market,  some  of  them 
box-office  bests  dating  as  late  as  1955.  A 
new  film  network  went  into  operation  last 
spring  with  133  stations  on  its  list.  Movie 
fans  now  have  plenty  of  choice. 

Opera  is  another  point  of  promise.  Pay- 
TV  advocates  all  say-  toll  would  bring  the 
Metropolitan  to  the  nation,  citing  it  as  a 
supreme  attraction.  The  networks  hold 
varying  opinions  about  opera's  popularity 
with  the  public.  Last  spring,  Ed  Sulli- 
van of  CBS-TV  called  it  a  point-killer 
and  cancelled  further  appearances  of 
opera  stars  on  his  shows.  ABC-TV  has 
signed  Patrice  Munsel  as  one  of  its  fall 
attractions.  And,  at  NBC-TV,  i.  )era  is  a 
proud  part  of  its  stock  in  trade.  NBC  has 
brought  grand  oj>era  a  larger  audience 
than  it  has  had  before  in  the  history  of  the 
world. 

Nets  Stand  on  Record 

Not  only  has  NBC  commissioned  new 
productions,  such  as  "Amahl  and  the  Night 
Visitors,"  it  has  also  broken  the  language 
barrier  so  that  the  average  viewer  can,  for 
the  first  time,  know  what  an  opera  is  all 
about  without  consulting  program  notes. 
They  are  the  first  to  provide  acceptable, 
not-silly,  English  translations,  sung  with 
perfect  diction.  Their  productions  have 
quality  to  satisfy  even  the  most  critical 
music  lover.  One  devotee,  of  my  own  ac- 
quaintance, who  goes  to  the  Metropolitan 
as  frequently  as  others  go  to  the  movies, 
feels  NBC  has  topped  the  Met.     He  calls 


their  "Tosca"  "the  most  dramatic  ever 
seen,"  their  "Madame  Butterfly"  was  "the 
finest  production  ever,"  and  "La  Traviata" 
the  "most  beautiful." 

NBC,  through  its  own  exchequer,  knows 
the  truth  of  the  old  adage,  "No  one  makes 
money  on  opera,"  yet  it  carried  its  public 
service  on  this  score  even  further.  In 
1957,  it  toured  its  opera  company  through 
forty-seven  cities  to  give  fifty-four  per- 
formances. In  the  coming  year,  they  will 
go  to  fifty-five  cities.  Both  on  the  air  and 
on  tour,  a  brilliant  season  is  scheduled. 

NBC  also  has  brought  the  public  plays 
direct  from  Broadway.  "Peter  Pan,"  star- 
ring Mary  Martin,  reached  living-room 
screens  with  never  the  clink  of  a  coin  or 
the  punch  of  a  card.  The  Lunts  starred 
in  "The  Great  Sebastians";  Julie  Harris, 
Boris  Karloff  and  Basil  Rathbone  ended 
their  run  of  "The  Lark"  on  television. 

CBS-TV  commissioned  Rodgers  and 
Hammerstein  to  produce  "Cinderella," 
which  may  become  a  stage  musical  or  a 
movie.  Their  plays  "Patterns"  and  "Mar- 
ty" already  have  become  movies.  Their 
most  spectacular  public  service,  perhaps, 
has  been  to  send  Danny  Kaye  on  a 
UNICEF  tour  to  visit  the  children  of  the 
world  and  to  show  that  wonderful  visit  on 
TV  screens.  CBS  footed  the  entire  bill. 

The  list  of  great  entertainment  and  great 
public  service  by  all  of  the  networks  is  a 
proud  record.  The  coming  season  holds 
more  than  it  is  possible  to  fist  here — such 
things  as  a  notable  public  affairs  program 
at  CBS  and  many  musicals  at  ABC.  NBC 
will  produce  both  Wagner's  monumental 
work,  "Die  Meistersinger,"  and  Poulenc's 
modern,  controversial  opera,  "Dialogues 
of  the  Carmelites." 

General  David  Sarnoff,  now  chairman  of 
the  board  at  NBC  once  summed  it  up: 
"The  richest  man  cannot  buy  for  himself 
what  the  poorest  man  gets  free  by  radio." 
TV  has  continued  this  tradition. 

What  will  happen  to  free  television  if 
pay-TV  is  authorized?  Its  proponents  say 
nothing  will  happen.  They  assert  that  pay- 
TV  will  be  a  supplementary  service,  leav- 
ing people  free  to  choose  whether  they 
want  to  subscribe  or  watch  the  free  shows. 

Pay  or  Black  Out 

The  broadcasters  candidly  state  that  this 
is  an  unwarranted  assumption.  They  point 
out  that  a  station  can  transmit  only  one 
program  at  a  time.  In  one-station  areas 
— the  communities  which  the  proponents 
say  most  need  the  help  of  box-office  tele- 
vision— the  non-paying  public  would  be 
blacked  out  entirely.  At  present,  140  cities 
have  but  one  channel;  68  have  two;  38  have 
three  and  only  fifteen  have  four  or  more. 

The  broadcasters  take  issue,  too,  with 
the  statement  that  pay-TV  would  ask  for 
only  15  percent  of  a  station's  time,  thus 
leaving  a  generous  free  period.  The 
broadcasters  point  out  that  fee  service 
doubtless  would  be  in  the  three  hours  of 
top  audience-time  from  eight  until  eleven 
o'clock.  Again,  the  non-paying  public 
would  be  blacked  out. 

They  also  state  that  free  programs  in- 
evitably would  decline  in  quality.  With 
the  audience  split,  advertisers  could  not 
afford  such  heavy  appropriations.  Further, 
pay-TV  would  outbid  sponsors.  General 
Sarnoff  has  stated,  "Those  who  offer  their 
services  in  the  entertainment  business  are 
affected  by  precisely  the  same  economic 
incentives  as  those  who  offer  their  services 
in  any  other  kind  of  business." 

Perhaps  a  prediction  of  things  to  come 
can  be  found  in  the  current  negotiations 
about  two  of  the  New  York  baseball  teams 
moving  to  the  West  Coast.  The  prospect 
of  pay-TV  is  said  to  be  an  important 
consideration  and  there  has  been  talk  of 


a  closed-circuit  system  going  into  Los 
Angeles  ahead  of  any  F.C.C.  authorization 
of  a  televised  system.  Walter  O'Malley, 
president  of  the  Brooklyn  Dodgers,  is 
just  one  of  the  sports  promoters  who  ard- 
ently supports  the  campaign  for  pay -TV. 

He  has  stated  that  he  believes  the  owner 
of  a  television  set  should  pay  fifty  cents, 
the  price  of  a  bleacher  seat,  to  watch  a 
game.  The  Dodgers  this  year  received 
$750,000  for  TV  rights.  How  much  more 
pay-TV  might  bring  them  depends  upon 
what  set  of  audience  multiplication  figures 
you  use.  It  is  easy,  however,  to  translate 
it  into  personal  terms.  If  you  happened 
to  have  a  small  boy  in  your  family  who 
just  had  to  see  every  game,  the  Dodgers 
seventy  home  games  this  season  would  cost 
you  a  viewing  bill  of  thirty-five  dollars  to 
keep  Junior  from  feeling  he  was  the  most 
neglected  kid  in  the  block. 

Because  pay-TV  raises  so  many  unre- 
solved questions,  some  members  of  the 
F.C.C.  have  said  that  the  only  way  to  find 
accurate  answers  is  to  authorize  a  test  in 
a  few  typical  cities  to  find  out  whether 
the  public  would  pay  for  the  programs 
which  the  pay -TV  people  promise.  The 
broadcasters,  however,  say  that  such  a  test 
would  really  be  a  trap. 

The  president  of  the  National  Associa- 
tion of  Radio  and  Television  Broadcasters, 
Harold  E.  Fellows,  says,  "The  so-called  ex- 
periments that  have  been  proposed  would 
not  show  the  real  dangers  of  pay-TV.  The 
promoters  might  well  offer  some  very  at- 
tractive bait,  in  the  form  of  novel  and 
unusual  programs,  during  such  a  test. 
They  might  not  try  to  lure  away  the  great 
events  such  as  the  World  Series  or  the 
most  popular  performers  who  now  appear 
on  the  free  channels.  But  once  a  nation- 
wide system  of  pay-TV  was  authorized, 
there  would  be  no  way  to  stop  pay-TV 
from  outbidding  free  television  for  its  best 
programs.  The  destruction  of  the  Amer- 
ican system  of  free  television  would  then 
be  under  way  and  it  would  be  too  late  to 
stop  it.  Our  association  believes  that  the 
American  people,  through  their  elected 
representatives  in  Congress,  are  the  ones 
who  should  decide  it." 

Predict  End  of  Free-TV 

How  would  the  stations  themselves  react 
to  pay-TV?  For  the  viewer  their  unan- 
imity of  expression  is  ominous. 

Frank  Stanton,  head  of  CBS,  prefaces 
his  statement  by  saying,  "It  is  difficult  to 
believe  that  the  Federal  Communications 
Commission  would  authorize  a  scheme 
which  seems  to  be  so  clearly  contrary  to 
public  interest."  He  then  adds,  "However, 
if  pay  television  should  become  established, 
economic  necessity  will  force  CBS  to  par- 
ticipate. We  could  expect  to  operate  profit- 
ably under  a  system  of  pay  television." 

General  Sarnoff,  speaking  for  NBC,  said, 
"Free  television  broadcasters  would  in- 
evitably be  forced  by  economic  necessity 
to  engage  in  pay  television  and  this  .  .  . 
would  ultimately  mean  the  end  of  our 
American  system  of  free  television." 

Leonard  Goldenson,  of  ABC,  at  the  last 
annual  meeting  of  stockholders,  took  the 
position  that  toll -TV  would  lead  to  the 
withdrawal  of  all  top  sports  events  and 
the  top  comedy  and  drama  shows.  People 
would  have  to  pay  for  what  they  now  get 
free,  plus  having  to  purchase  and  main- 
tain their  sets.  He  also  stated  that  news 
and  public  service  programs  would  van- 
ish for  lack  of  commercial  support. 

Mr.  Fellows,  too,  was  equally  frank.  Ad- 
dressing the  Senate  Interstate  Commerce 
Committee,  he  said,  "Do  not  assume  that, 
if  pay  television  is  authorized  and  suc- 
cessful, the  broadcasting  industry  .  .  . 
will  be   standoffish.     As  businessmen,  we 


62 


—  -  i  .  i*.  ....-..- 


would  be  foolish  to  turn  our  backs  on  a 
successful  business  venture  .  .  .  the  free 
broadcaster,  whether  he  desires  to  or  not, 
will  be  forced  to  jump  on  the  bandwagon." 

Lest  such  predictions  be  regarded  as  a 
cry  of  "Wolf!  Wolf!"  from  the  broadcasters, 
it  should  be  added  that  a  number  of  very 
responsible  people  share  the  same  view: 
That  pay  television  means  the  end  of  free 
television. 

Representative  Emanuel  Celler  (D., 
N.Y.)  certainly  cannot  be  regarded  as  a 
spokesman  for  the  networks.  As  Chairman 
of  the  House  Judiciary  Antitrust  Subcom- 
mittee, he  recently  conducted  exhaustive 
hearings  on  broadcasting  practices  and 
turned  in  a  report  which  absolutely  wal- 
loped the  nets  for  certain  practices  which 
the  committee  considered  monopolistic 
and  in  restraint  of  trade.  Yet  Mr.  Celler 
has  also  introduced  in  the  House  a  bill  to 
prohibit  the  charging  of  a  fee  to  view  tele- 
casts in  the  home. 

Senator  Strom  Thurmond  (D.,  S.C.)  in- 
troduced a  similar  bill  in  the  Senate.  After 
stating  that  he  had  come  to  the  conclusion 
that  permitting  pay  television  would  be 
the  same  as  having  Congress  impose  a  new 
tax  on  the  people  of  this  country,  he  also 
said,  "In  effect,  the  people  who  now  view 
television  without  additional  cost,  after  the 
purchase  of  their  sets,  would  have  to  start 
paying  additional  fees  or  charges  or  be  de- 
nied the  privilege  of  seeing  their  preferred 
programs. 

"Perhaps  this  would  not  take  place  im- 
mediately with  the  institution  of  pay  tele- 


vision, but  I  am  sure  it  would  soon  follow, 
once  pay  television  were  approved." 

He  also  opposed  field  tests  of  pay-TV 
with  the  statement:  "If  we  permit  the 
Federal  Communications  Commission  to 
grant  approval  for  experimental  pay  tele- 
vision programs,  as  the  Commission  has 
decided  it  presently  has  authority  to  do, 
then  we  must  face  the  fact  that  it  would 
be  most  difficult  later  to  tell  the  experi- 
menters, who  had  spent  millions  of  dollars, 
that  pay  television  had  been  classified  as 
against  the  public  interest. 

"Persons  who  had  invested  their  money 
without  being  warned  by  the  Congress 
would  then  have  cause  to  complain  be- 
cause they  had  not  been  stopped. 

"If  there  were  any  assurance  that  pay 
television  would  be  provided  purely  as  a 
supplement  to  present  service  and  that 
no  person  would  be  deprived  of  the  priv- 
ilege of  viewing  programs  now  being  shown 
free,  then  we  would  not  have  to  be  con- 
cerned about  this  matter.  But  there  is 
no  assurance  and  there  can  be  none  that 
programs  now  seen  free  would  not  soon 
be  bought  up  by  the  producers  of  pay 
television  programs. 

"There  is  no  proof  that  pay  television 
would  provide  the  public  with  better 
programs.  The  one  sure  thing  about  pay 
television  is  that  it  would  cost  the  public 
more  than  the  present  system  costs." 

What  Senator  Thurmond  omitted  stat- 
ing, when  he  referred  to  the  authorizing  of 
pay-TV  being  comparable  to  Congress 
imposing  an  additional  tax  on  the  public, 


is  that  these  moneys  would  be  paid  not 
into  the  treasury  of  the  United  States  but 
would  go  instead  to  private  enterprises. 

Your  Opinion  Counts 

The  subject  of  pay-TV  remains  com- 
plicated and  confusing.  This  information, 
however,  is  drawn  from  public  state- 
ments, official  briefs,  and  printed  material 
which  has  been  issued  by  each  side.  It 
provides  as  much  of  a  summary  as  can 
be  given  to  date  and  is  offered  with  the 
hope  that,  from  it,  TV  Radio  Mirror  read- 
ers can  reach  an  opinion. 

The  F.C.C.  decision  on  authorizing  the 
field  tests  of  pay-TV  will  probably  be 
made  sometime  this  fall.  This  regulating 
body  is  responsible  to  Congress  and  re- 
sponsive to  the  desires  of  the  American 
public  which  owns  the  broadcasting  fre- 
quencies. 

In  this  controversy,  every  one's  opinion 
counts.  If  you  wish  to  express  yours  in 
the  direction  which  counts  the  most,  write 
to  your  senator  and  congressman.  If  you 
don't  know  their  names,  send  your  com- 
ment to  Senator  Warren  Magnuson,  chair- 
man of  the  Senate  Interstate  and  Foreign 
Commerce  Committee,  Senate  Office  Build- 
ing, Washington  25,  D.  C,  or  the  House 
committee's  chairman,  Representative  Oren 
Harris,  House  Office  Building,  Washing- 
ton 25,  D.C.  What  you  have  to  say  about 
the  matter  now  may  well  determine  what 
television  you  will  view,  and  at  what  cost 
you  will  view  it  five  years  hence. 


Jan  Davis:  Talent  Scout 


(Continued  from  page  30) 
Talent  Scouts  production  a  year  ago,  cer- 
tain changes  have  been  made.  Prior  to 
J.D.,  if  you  wanted  to  try  out  for  the  show, 
you  had  to  come  to  New  York.  Now  Jan 
has  an  assistant,  Mark  Russell,  who  travels 
about  the  country  auditioning.  ("Back  in 
Arkansas,"  Jan  recalls,  "my  great  ambition 
was  to  get  on  the  Major  Bowes'  Amateur 
Hour,  but  it  was  just  a  daydream — because 
I  knew  I'd  never  get  money  enough  to 
make  the  trip.")  Contestants  for  Talent 
Scouts  get  a  great  deal  of  help  in  dress, 
presentation  and  building  of  arrange- 
ments. ("In  the  beginning,"  Jan  says,  "I 
always  hoped  I'd  meet  someone  who  would 
give  me  the  benefit  of  their  professional 
experience  and  tell  me  what  I  was  doing 
wrong.")  And  one  of  the  best  things  Jan 
has  done  as  producer  is  to  emphasize 
talent  rather  than  flash  or  "gimmicks." 

"I  would  never  hire  someone  on  the 
strength  of  a  record,  for  a  record  doesn't 
necessarily  show  the  natural  voice.  You 
can  use  too  many  tricks  in  recording."  Jan 
adds,  "Of  course,  we  will  audition  records 
for  Talent  Scouts,  but  the  performer  must 
still  have  an  in-person  audition.  You  see, 
records  mean  so  little  to  a  professional  for, 
these  days,  it  seems  that  everyone  has  a 
guitar  and  microphone  pushed  at  him  and 
he  sits  down  and  records.  Why,  I've  heard 
new  songs  with  as  few  as  three  chord 
changes.  A  singer  learns  a  'gimmick,'  and 
then  develops  the  gimmick  rather  than  his 
talent.  But  our  top  performers,  our  Comos 
and  Shores,  have  developed  talent  through 
years  of  work  and  preparation.  That's 
why  they  last." 

It  sometimes  happens  that  a  Talent 
Scouts  contestant  who  has  scope  and  range, 
who  can  sing  several  dozen  different  songs, 
will  lose  out  to  an  act  that  has  a  flashy 
novelty  number.  "Sometimes,"  Jan  says, 
"an  act  has  one  terrific  number,  and  that's 
about  it.  He  captures  the  audience's  ap- 
plause. A  singer  with  much  more  on  the 
ball  can't  express  it  all  in  one  number." 


Jan  smiles  and  says,  "Well,  in  that  respect 
we  are  thankful  for  Arthur's  presence. 
His  sense  of  appreciation  extends  beyond 
the  original  promises  of  the  program.  Fre- 
quently, he'll  invite  two  of  the  contestants, 
or  all  three,  to  appear  on  the  show." 

To  be  on  Talent  Scouts,  you  must  be  a 
professional — which  means  that  you  must 
have  earned  your  living  as  a  professional 
entertainer,  or  at  least  have  worked  fre- 
quently for  pay,  no  matter  how  small. 
"The  size  of  income  and  age  of  the  per- 
former have  little  to  do  with  his  or  her 
worth,"  Jan  says.  "I've  seen  teenagers 
who  have  as  much  poise  as  old-timers. 
Some  have  been  working  professionally 
since  the  age  of  nine  or  ten.  Maybe  pay 
was  small,  but  the  experience  is  invaluable." 

Experience  is  where  you  find  it- — in 
choirs  and  choral  groups,  with  bands  or  a 
barbershop  quartet,  on  a  small  radio  sta- 
tion or  in  listening  to  records.  "Imitation 
of  a  professional,"  Jan  notes,  "is  a  big 
mistake  of  youngsters.  Sure,  you  learn 
by  listening— but  don't  copy.  And  you 
might  look  at  the  personal  qualities  of  a 
performer  you  admire,  for  you'll  find 
guidance  there,  too.  Our  best  performers 
are  nice  people."  She  adds,  "TV  has  had 
its  effect  on  singers.  It's  not  enough  to 
know  how  to  sing.  You're  also  seen,  so  you 
must  look  good.  You  must  know  how  to 
walk,  dress,  use  your  hands.  Dancing  and 
dramatic  lessons  don't  hurt." 

Jan  began  to  work  hard  at  an  early  age, 
but  her  experience  wasn't  unusual.  It  isn't 
even  unusual  for  the  youngsters  of  today. 
For  a  good  starter,  there  is  Ann  Leonardo, 
very  cute  and  very  talented.  Ann  was  born 
June  11,  1938,  in  Fresno,  California,  where 
she  still  lives  with  her  parents.  She  has 
two  older  brothers,  one  who  is  a  lawyer 
and  another  who  is  a  year  ahead  of  her 
in  Fresno  College. 

Like  many  other  girls,  Ann  had  dancing 
and  piano  lessons  as  a  young  child.  She 
began  on  the  piano  when  she  was  seven 
and,  by  the  time  she  was  in  high  school, 


she  was  showing  real  musical  talent.  Four 
years  in  a  row,  she  won  superior  ratings  at 
the  Music  Festival  held  by  the  California 
Music  Federation. 

"I  was  hoping  to  be  a  concert  pianist," 
she  recalls,  "but  my  parents  didn't  push 
me.  I  played  popular  music,  too,  because 
I  liked  it.  At  parties,  or  just  for  friends, 
I'd  play  and  sing.  When  I  was  a  freshman 
in  Fresno  High  School,  some  friends  teased 
me  into  singing  at  an  assembly." 

That  little  bit  of  teasing  changed  the 
course  of  Ann's  life.  She  sang  well  at  the 
assembly  and  was  asked  to  sing  again.  On 
exchange  programs,  she  was  sent  to  sing 
at  other  schools.  As  a  school  representa- 
tive, she  sang  for  the  Kiwanis.  There  she 
was  heard  by  the  manager  of  KMJ -Radio 
and  TV.  He  put  her  to  work.  She  did  an 
hour  radio  show  once  a  week  for  $8.50, 
and  a  fifteen-minute  weekly  TV  program 
for  $25.  Both  shows  were  called  Rumpus 
Room.  And,  while  she  was  doing  these 
shows,  she  was  studying  piano,  singing 
with  the  school  choir,  keeping  up  dancing 
lessons  and  participating  in  school  dra- 
matics. In  1955,  she  entered  Fresno  Col- 
lege as  a  music  major,  studied  a  little 
dramatics  and  continued  her  radio  and  TV 
work,  as  well  as  in-person  dates.  In  July 
of  1956,  she  came  east  to  Manhattan,  with 
her  mother,  to  await  her  father's  return 
from  Europe. 

Ann  recalls:    "We  stayed  with  relatives 
in  New  York  who  coaxed  me  into  trying 
out  for  Talent  Scouts.    I  auditioned  once 
and  was  called  back  to  sing  for  Jan.   I  was 
told   that  I'd  be   on  the  July  30th   show. 
From  the  moment  Jan  took  over,  I  knew 
that  she   was   interested   in   seeing  that   I 
would  look  as  good  as  possible.  She  was 
worried   about  my  pony-tail   hairdo,   and 
we    discussed    it    and    decided    I    should 
change  it.    She  helped  me  select  the  right    T 
dress   for   the    show.    We   went   over   my    v 
repertoire  and  decided  that  I  should  sing    R 
'The  Breeze!'" 

In  spite  of  all  the  work  and  preparation, 

63 


Ann  lost.  "I  felt  terrible.  The  elevator 
girl  told  me  to  stop  crying.  She  said, 
'Honey,  a  boy  who  lost  on  the  show  a 
couple  of  years  ago  comes  on  TV  in  fifteen 
minutes  with  his  own  show!  She  was  talk- 
ing about  Vic  Damone." 

The  next  morning,  the  sun  came  out 
again,  when  Arthur  invited  Ann  to  appear 
on  the  morning  show  for  a  week,  and  then 
a  second  week.  She  was  signed  by  Capitol 
Records  and,  this  past  summer,  she  began 
a  series  of  club  dates. 

"That's  the  great  thing  about  Talent 
Scouts,"  says  Danny  Costello.  "Even  if 
the  audience  doesn't  vote  you  in,  you  have 
a  second  chance,  for  Arthur  may  ask  you 
back.  Besides,  talent  scouts  for  the  movies 
and  recording  companies,  talent  buyers  for 
clubs  and  TV  have  great  respect  for  the 
Godfrey  show.    They  watch,  too." 

1  wenty-seven-year-old  Danny  Costello, 
handsome  six-footer,  was  a  winner  on 
Talent  Scouts — but  he  auditioned  six  times, 
over  a  period  of  several  years,  before  he 
was  accepted  as  a  contestant.  Danny,  for 
all  his  charm,  has  guts  and  perseverance. 
He  was  born  and  raised  in  Jersey  City.  "I 
lived  in  an  old-world  Italian  neighbor- 
hood," he  says,  "and  the  people  had  great 
love  and  respect  for  operatic  music.  Music 
was  not  something  incidental.  Singing  was 
an  art  to  be  appreciated  and  taken  seri- 
ously. At  ten,  I  was  put  in  the  Holy  Rosary 
Choir.  It  was  a  fine  group.  We  had  two 
choir-masters  who  gave  us  special  tutor- 
ing. Look — anyone  who  can  sing  Gre- 
gorian chant  can  sing  anything." 

But  Danny  was  also  a  top-flight  ball- 
player. He  was  playing  "pro"  ball  from 
seventeen  until  twenty.  He  was  under  con- 
tract to  the  Pittsburgh  Pirates  when  he 
broke  his  arm.  That  did  it,  and  he  made 
up  his  mind  to  be  a  singer.  He  sang  in 
clubs  and  local  radio.  He  got  experience 
with  a  G.I.  dance  band.  He  began  to  audi- 
tion for  Talent  Scouts  about  1951  and  in 
August,  1955,  got  on  the  show  with  the 
song,  "Something's  Got  to  Give."  Some- 
thing did — he  won.  The  thrill  was  shared 
by  his  wife,  the  former  Mary  Truitt,  of 
Tallahassee,  who  now  lives  in  Jersey  City 
with  the  Costellos'  two  boys.  Danny  says, 
"I  owe  a  lot  to  her  putting  up  with  me  for 
the  past  seven  years.  Sometimes  there  was 
very  little  money.  Or  I  was  on  the  road 
and  she  had  to  care  for  the  kids  all  by 
herself.  But,  most  of  all,  she  had  the  right 
words  at  the  right  time." 

Danny  speaks  of  Arthur  with  real  affec- 
tion. "I  remember,"  he  says,  "the  first  day 
I  was  in  his  office  asking  for  advice  on  a 
recording  contract.  Not  only  did  he  put 
on  his  glasses  and  read  all  of  the  little  type, 
but  he  spent  an  hour  explaining  the  re- 
cording business  to  me."  Danny  adds, 
"And  Jan,  well,  she's  the  greatest.  Any 
problem  I  have — whether  it's  with  a  new 
sheet  of  music  or  a  job — I  go  to  her." 

One  of  the  newest  talents  on  the  God- 
frey show  is  Anita  Bryant,  who  was  born 
March  25,  1940,  in  Barnesdale,  Oklahoma, 
and  now  lives  in  Tulsa.  If  you're  going  to 
be  guided  by  Anita's  career,  you  might  as 
well  give  up  if  you  haven't  succeeded  by 
the  time  you're  ten.  Yet  Anita  herself 
hasn't  been  pushing — she's  been  enjoying 
herself.  "I'd  give  up  a  career  instantly  for 
marriage.  I've  been  thinking  that  I  might 
give  up  'pop'  to  sing  with  an  evangelist. 
But,  no  matter  whether  I'm  married  or 
sitting  at  a  typewriter,  I'll  be  singing." 

They  say  that  when  Anita  was  a  toddler, 

not  too  long  ago,  her  grandfather  bounced 

her  on  his  knees  and  said,  "Sing!"  and  she 

did.   At  six,  she  was  among  the  first-grade 

.    children     auditioned     for     a     high-school 

v    operetta.   She  got  the  role  and,  during  the 

R    following   three   years,   she   was   asked   to 

sing  at   high-school   banquets.    When  she 

was  nine,  she  won  a  talent  contest  and  be- 

„ ,  came  Red  Feather  Girl  for  the  state. 

64 


"I  was  eleven  when  my  father  took  a 
cut  in  salary  to  move  to  Oklahoma  City  so 
I  could  study  voice  with  Allen  Clark,  who 
is  my  manager,"  says  Anita,  who  is  as 
vivacious  as  she  is  pretty,  with  brown  hair 
and  very  big  and  dark  brown  eyes.  "Mr. 
Clark,"  she  continues,  "is  head  of  music  at 
WKY-TV  and  Radio.  He  was  once  ar- 
ranger for  the  Phil  Harris  band.  He  knows 
music  and  singing.  Every  Saturday,  we 
worked  five  hours." 

At  twelve,  Anita  made  her  TV  debut  on 
the  Scotty  Harrell  show  in  Oklahoma  City. 
Mail  response  was  such  that  she  was  in- 
vited back  week  after  week.  When  Harrel 
went  off,  Anita  starred  on  her  own  show 
for  an  additional  six  weeks.  Her  sponsor 
paid  her  twenty-five  dollars  a  week  for  the 
fifteen-minute  show.  She  also  sang  in 
church,  in  school  and  with  dance  bands. 
She  took  dance  lessons  and  played  in 
every  school  dramatic  show  she  could. 

"When  I  heard  auditions  for  Talent 
Scouts  were  being  held  in  Oklahoma  City, 
I  wrote  in,  asking  for  a  date  and  stating 
my  experience.  It  was  last  winter  that 
Mark  Russell  came  out.  I  sang  for  him 
and  he  told  me  then  that  I'd  be  among  the 
finalists.  In  April,  I  sang  again  and  this 
time  I  was  among  the  several  people 
chosen  to  come  to  New  York  as  a  con- 
testant." Anita  smiles  as  she  recalls,  "We 
all  won  that  night,  May  20th.  Arthur  said 
it  was  so  close  that  there'd  be  no  losers." 

A  gal  who  remembers  very  little  of  what 
happened  when  she  appeared  on  Talent 
Scouts  is  Miyoshi  Umeki,  a  pert  Japanese 
doll  who  sings  jazz  ballads  with  a  husky, 
intriguing  quality.  "Everything  got  started 
from  the  Godfrey  show,"  she  says.  "That 
was  January  9,  1956.  I  didn't  feel  any- 
thing, I  was  so  scared  and  nervous.  I  was 
petrified.  That  night,  I  sang,  'If  I  Give  My 
Heart  to  You.'  Afterwards,  my  agent, 
Edna  Whiting,  told  me  I  had  won.  I 
couldn't  believe  it.  I  said,  'It's  not  true. 
Don't  tell  me.'  When  I  got  back  to  the 
hotel,  I  sent  telegrams  back  to  Japan. 
Then  I  believed  it." 

Miyoshi,  with  black  hair  and  lovely  black 
eyes,  is  a  fragile  five-foot-one.  She  still 
sings  in  a  kimono,  but  her  favorite  dish 
is  now  pizza,  and  her  favorite  singer, 
Frank  Sinatra.  Her  admiration  for  Sinatra 
dates  back  to  her  residence  in  Japan.  Mi- 
yoshi was  born  twenty-two  years  ago  on 
the  small  island  of  Hokkaido.  Until  she 
was  fifteen,  her  voice  was  so  husky  that 
she  could  hardly  talk,  let  alone  sing.  She 
went  on  to  music  college  after  high 
school,  and  it  was  there  that  she  learned 
her  first  American  song,  "I  Walk  Alone." 
Her  brother,  an  interpreter  for  the  Ameri- 
can Military  Government,  brought  some 
G.I.  friends  home  to  hear  his  baby  sister. 
Some  of  the  Americans  played  in  a  band. 
They,  in  turn,  arranged  for  Miyoshi  to  sing 
with  them  on  a  radio  program. 

"I  had  my  first  job  at  seventeen,"  she 
smiles.  "I  never  worried  about  how  much 
I  was  paid.  I  liked  to  sing.  I  worked 
wherever  there  was  music  and  a  micro- 
phone. My  mother  didn't  object  to  my 
singing  with  bands.  She  had  put  all  the 
children  before  me  through  school,  and  my 
father  died  when  I  was  thirteen.  I  was  the 
last  of  nine  children  and  I  think  she  was 
too  tired  to  tell  me  'no.'  I  was  lucky  and 
could  do  anything  I  wanted." 

Miyoshi  practiced  hard  and  listened  long 
to  American  records.  She  began  singing 
with  top  Japanese  jazz  bands.  She  be- 
came the  first  Japanese  singer  to  record 
for  RCA  Victor,  and  made  some  forty 
"sides."  She  was  in  five  Japanese  movies. 
And  then  she  gave  in  to  an  urge  to  visit 
America.  Shortly  after  she  arrived  here, 
she  had  a  chance  to  audition  for  Talent 
Scouts.  She  won  on  the  show.  And 
Arthur  was  so  charmed  by  her  that  he  has 
called  her  back  many  times.  Miyoshi  be- 
lieves the  Godfrey  appearance  led  to   all 


of  her  recent  breaks.  She  has  been  singing 
in  the  best  clubs  in  the  country,  and  has 
a  starring  role  in  the  Marlon  Brando  film, 
"Sayonara,"  to  be  released  in   December. 

It  was  just  about  a  year  after  Miyoshi's 
debut  that  Arthur  reached  outside  the 
States  for  another  exciting  talent.  That  was 
and  is  Canadian  Tommy  Common.  Tommy 
is  twenty-four,  born  on  September  21, 
1933,  in  Toronto.  He  is  good-looking,  with 
blue  eyes  and  light  brown  hair.  He  stands 
five-seven.  And,  like  Miyoshi,  Tommy  is 
indebted  to  a  brother  for  his  start. 

Tommy  was  eight  and  his  brother  ten. 
One  day,  the  brother  bowed  out  of  a  sing- 
ing spot  at  church,  explaining,  "Tommy  is 
better."  From  that  day  on,  Tommy  was 
singing.  He  worked  in  a  church  choir.  At 
ten,  he  sang  a  solo  before  fifteen  thousand 
people.  "I  was  saved  from  stage  fright," 
he  notes,  "by  the  glare  of  footlights — I 
couldn't  see  anything."  At  Boy  Scout  age, 
he  was  singing  for  hospitalized  war  veter- 
ans. As  he  got  older,  he  sang  with  dance 
bands.  He  was  in  the  University  of  Tor- 
onto, studying  electrical  engineering,  when 
he  began  to  realize  he  had  bitten  off  more 
than  he  could  handle.  Class  work  took 
thirty-three  hours  a  week,  and  the  dance 
bands  kept  him  up  until  two  in  the  morn- 
ing. He  quit  school.  But  then  he  had  to 
fortify  his  income,  and  he  went  to  work  in 
a  Ford  plant  as  a  press  welder. 

lhe  turning  point  in  Tommy's  career 
came  about  when  he  appeared  on  a  Ca- 
nadian TV  talent  show,  Pick  The  Stars. 
Tommy  won  the  first  night  and  came  back, 
five  weeks  later,  to  appear  in  the  semi- 
finals. He  lost.  Two  weeks  later,  however, 
the  Canadian  Broadcasting  Company 
signed  him  to  a  year's  contract.  Since 
then,  he  has  become  one  of  Canada's 
brightest  TV  stars  on  Country  Hoedown. 

"I  was  accomplishing  some  of  the  things 
I  had  hoped  for,"  Tommy  says,  "but  one 
of  my  ambitions  was  to  get  on  Talent 
Scouts.  Well,  I  had  auditioned  twice  in 
New  York  and  had  been  turned  down 
both  times.  But  when  auditions  were  held 
in  Toronto — at  a  time  when  I  had  the 
benefit  of  more  experience — I  was  chosen 
to  come  to  New  York  as  a  contestant." 
Tommy  won,  and  he  says  no  small  part  of 
it  was  due  to  Jan's  help.  "You  know,"  he 
says,  "even  though  I'm  on  TV  every  week 
in  Toronto,  there  were  still  things  Miss 
Davis  pointed  out  that  helped  my  presenta- 
tion. I'm  sold  on  her.  I  doubt  that  you'll 
find  a  more  able,  sincere  woman  in  the 
entertainment  business  today." 

Though  admitting  that  he  is  serious  by 
nature,  Tommy  notes  that  he  is  happy  and 
content  with  his  life.  Three  years  ago,  he 
married  a  girlhood  sweetheart,  Doreen 
Stevens.  They  have  a  year-old  son  named 
Jamie.  "My  philosophy  toward  show  busi- 
ness is  simple  enough,"  he  says.  "I've 
heard  that,  if  you  can  start  at  the  top,  then 
start  at  the  top.  But,  if  you  can't,  then 
start  at  the  bottom." 

The  only  complaint  many  gals  have  had 
with  Tommy  Common,  Danny  Costello — 
and  Pat  Boone,  too,  for  that  matter — is 
that,  although  they  are  handsome  and 
personable  and  young  enough,  they  have 
wives  and  children.  But,  this  past  spring, 
Talent  Scouts  came  up  with  the  answer 
to  a  maiden's  prayer.  He  is  nineteen- 
year-old  Steve  Karmen,  born  in  Manhat- 
tan and  raised  in  the  Bronx,  a  blond  six- 
footer  with  blue  eyes.  With  him,  music 
is  a  must.  "Music  is  my  hobby,  my  work 
and  my  life,"  says  Steve. 

Steve  was  one  of  the  losers  on  the  show 
of  April  15,  1957.  That  night,  the  winner 
was  a  singer,  Bob  Dini.  "I  was  watching 
off  stage  when  Bob's  name  was  announced," 
Steve  recalls,  "and  my  face  fell  a  mile. 
Then  I  heard  Mr.  Godfrey  saying,  'You 
don't  mind  if  I  take  this  other  young 
fellow   along   to   the   morning   show,    too.' 


'  And  he  called  me  out  and  I  just  lit  up  like 
a  Christmas  tree." 

That  night,  and  for  the  following  few 
nights,  no  one  slept  at  the  Karmen  apart- 
ment. Teenagers  were  calling  all  hours. 
Finally,  the  phone  number  had  to  be 
changed  for  the  sake  of  his  parents'  nerves. 
"I  got  a  big  kick  out  of  the  calls,"  Steve 
says.  "Just  talking  to  teenagers.  That's 
the  part  of  show  business  I  like.  It's  the 
relationship  to  people — entertaining  them, 
traveling  and  meeting  different  kinds." 

Steve  lives  with  his  parents  in  the  Bronx. 
His  one  brother  is  a  doctor.  His  father  is 
a  civil  engineer  employed  by  the  City  of 
New  York.  Steve's  parents  have  so  many 
brothers  and  sisters  that  Steve  figures  he's 
got  close  to  fifty  first-cousins — but,  out  of 
the  whole  mob,  he  is  the  only  one  in  show 
business. 
He  has  a  natural  aptitude  for  music.   At 

'  eleven,  he  got  a  hand-me-down  saxophone, 
Ten  days  later,  he  gave  a  recital  in  public 
school.  He  had  two  years  of  formal  lessons 
on  the  sax  and  then,  on  his  own,  picked 
up  flute,  mandolin,  piano,  clarinet,  drums, 
bass  viol  and  guitar.  He  reads  music  for 
all  the  instruments,  plays  well  enough  to 
work  with  a  dance  band.  For  example, 
the  guitar — which  he  picked  up  within  the 
past  year — he  plays  in  any  key.  "I  learn 
by  watching,"  he  says.  "I'll  see  a  guitarist 
do  something  I'd  like  to  do,  and  I'll  ask 
him  to  show  me  howr  he  does  it,  then  I  go 
home  and  practice." 

Steve  thought  he  wanted  to  be  a  doctor 
and  he  tried  to  stick  to  pre-med  at  New 
York  University.    His   grades   were   good, 

.  but  he  transferred  over  to  the  Manhattan 
School  of  Music.  He  had  stayed  only  a 
half-year  when  he  decided  that  loving 
music  didn't  necessarily  mean  he  had  to 
be  a  teacher.  In  the  fall  of  1956,  he  began 
to  study  acting  at  the  American  Theater 
Wing.  Just  a  month  before  he  had  hap- 
pened to  become  a  professional  singer. 
A  Calypso  singer  at  The  Living  Room,  a 

I  Manhattan  club,  took  ill.  A  friend  who 
had  heard  Steve  sing  Calypso  at  parties 
recommended  Steve — who  showed  up  for 
one  night,  "to  fill  in."  He  was  invited  back 
the  next  night,  and  lasted  fourteen  weeks. 
After  that,  he  sang  at  another  club,  Le 
Ruban  Bleu.  He  was  at  the  Velvet  Club, 
when  he  appeared  on  Talent  Scouts  and 
lost.  But  Arthur  took  him  on  the  morning 
show  for  two  weeks,  then  talked  him  into 
"goofing  off". 

"Well,  you  see,"  says  Steve,  "Mr.  God- 
frey kidded  me  about  the  fact  that  I  sang 
Calypso  but  had  never  been  in  Trinidad. 
Then  Moore -McCormack  Lines  offered  me 
a  free  sixty-day  cruise.  Well,'  I  was  hesi- 
tant about  going.  It  sounded  like  goofing 
off.  So  I  talked  with  Mr.  Godfrey  about  it. 
He  told  me  to  go.  He  said  there  are  so 
many  people  in  show  business  who  know 
show  business  and  that's  all.  And  he  said 
it  isn't  enough.  You've  got  to  be  some- 
thing else,  too. 

"Miss  Davis  agreed  with  Mr.  Godfrey 
about  the  trip.  I  have  a  lot  of  respect 
for  her.  She  had  a  problem  in  getting  me 
ready  for   Talent  Scouts.    I   have   nerves. 

'  I  just  about  shake  all  over,  every  time  I 
get  in  front  of  the  camera.    I  was  about 

,  to  work  without  my  guitar,  but  she  in- 
sisted it  would  be  a  good  anchor  for  me, 
since  I  was  used  to  working  with  it.  But 
mostly,  it  was  her  manner  that  made  me 
feel  at  ease.  Show  business  is  like  any- 
thing else  in  life.  You  do  your  best  when 
you  can  feel  that  people  like  and  appre- 

j  ciate  you.  Well,  that's  the  way  everyone 
has  been  in  the  Godfrey  office.    I'm  just  a 

^kid,  but  they  worked  on  my  arrangements 

'as  though  I  were  a  star.  They  all  want  to 
help  me." 

And  there  you  have  it,  Mr.  Godfrey  and 
Miss  Davis,  a  half-dozen  of  the  nicest 
testimonials  any  dedicated  talent  scout 
ever  had! 


NEW! 


Star 
Candids 


We've  added  torn*  brand 
new  stars  and  brand  new  pie* 
tures  starting  with  #248. 
ChecSf  th*  list  below  for  your 
•favorites.  Alt  handsome  4  x  S 
photos,  on  glossy  stock,  just 
right  for  framing.  Send  your 
order  today. 


em  ?*««* 


CANDIDS 


l.Lana  Turner 

2.  Betty  Grable 

3.  Ava  Gardner 

5.  Alan  Ladd 

6.  Tyrone  Power 

7.  Gregory  Peck 
9.  Esther  Williams 

11.  Elizabeth  Taylor 

14.  Cornel  Wilde 

15.  Frank  Sinatra 

18.  Rory  Calhoun 

19.  Peter  Lawford 

2 1 .  Bob  Mitchum 

22.  Burt  Lancaster 

23.  Bing  Crosby 
25.  Dale  Evans 
27.  June  Allyson 

33.  Gene  Autry 

34.  Roy  Rogers 

35.  Sunset  Carson 

50.  Diana  Lynn 

51.  Doris  Day 

52.  Montgomery  Clift 

53.  Richard  Widmark 

56.  Perry  Cemo 

57.  BiU  Holden 

66.  Gordon  MacRae 

67.  Ann  Blyth 

68.  Jeanne  Crain 

69.  Jane  Russell 
74.  John  Wayne 
78.  Audie  Murphy 
84.  Janet  Leigh 
86.  Farley  Granger 

91.  John  Derek 

92.  Guy  Madison 
94.  Mario  Lanza 
103.  Scott  Brady 

105.  Vic  Damone 

106.  Shelley  Winters 

107.  Richard  Todd 


109.  Dean  Martin 

110.  Jerry  Lewis 
112.  Susan  Hayward 
117.  Terry  Moore 
121.  Tony  Curtis 
124.  Gail  Davis 

127.  Piper  Laurie 

128.  Debbie  Reynolds 

135.  Jeff  Chandler 

136.  Reck  Hudson 

137.  Stewart  Granger 

139.  Debra  Paget 

140.  Dale  Robertson 

141.  Marilyn  Monroe 

142.  Leslie  Caron 

143.  Pier  Angeli 

144.  Mitzi  Gaynor 

145.  Marlon  Brando 

146.  Aldo  Ray 

147.  Tab  Hunter 

148.  Robert  Wagner 

149.  Russ  Tamblya 

150.  Jeff  Hunter 
152.  Marge  and  Gow- 

er  Champion 

174.  Rita  Gam 

175.  Charlton  Heston 

176.  Steve  Cochran 

177.  Richard  Burton 

179.  Julius  La  Rosa 

180.  Lucille  Ball 
182.  Jack  Webb 
185.  Richard  Egan 
187.  Jeff  Richards 

190.  Pat  Crowley 

191.  Robert  Taylor 

192.  Jean  Simmons 
194.  Audrey  Hepburn 
198.  Gale  Storm 
202.  George  Nader 


205.  Ann  Sothern 
207.  Eddie  Fisher 
209.  Liberace 

211.  Bob  Francis 

212.  Grace  Kelly 

213.  James  Dean 

214.  Sheree  North 

215.  Kim  Novak 

216.  Richard  Davalos 

218.  Eva  Marie  Saint 

219.  Natalie  Wood 

220.  Dewey  Martin 

221.  Joan  Collins 

222.  Jayne  Mansfield 

223.  Sal  Mineo 

224.  Shirlev  Jones 

225.  Elvis  Presley 

226.  Victoria  Shaw 

227.  Tony  Perkins 

228.  Clint  Walker 

229.  Pat  Boone 

230.  Paul  Newman 

231.  Don  Murray 

232.  Don  Cherry 

233.  Pat  Wayne 

234.  Carroll  Baker 

235.  Anita  Ekberg 

236.  Corey  AUen 


237.  Dana  Wynter 

239.  Judy  Busch 

240.  Patti  Page 

241.  Lawrence  Welk 

242.  Alice  Lon 

243.  Larry  Dean 

244.  Buddy   Merrill 

245.  Hugh  O'Brlan 

246.  Jim  Arness 

247.  Sanford  Clark 

248.  Vera  Miles 

249.  John  Saxon 

250.  Dean  Stockwell 

251.  Diane  Jergens 

252.  Warren  Ber linger 

253.  James  MacArthur 

254.  Nick  Adams 

255.  John  Kerr 

256.  Harry  Belafonte 

257.  Jim  Lowe 

258.  Luana  Patten 

259.  Dennis  Hopper 

260.  Tom  Tryon 

261.  Tommy  Sands 

262.  Will  Hutchins 

263.  James  Darren 

264.  Ricky  Nelson 


|    WORLD  WIDE,  DEPT.  WG-IO 
112  Main  St.,  Ossining,  N.  Y. 

'    I  enclose  $ for  candid 

■     pictures  of  my  favorite  stars  and  have  circled 
the  numbers  of  the  ones  you  are  to  send  me 
■     by  return  mail. 


FILL    IN    AND    MAIL 
COUPON   TODAY! 


I 
I 
I 
I 
7   I 


NAME. 


STREET. 


CITY. 


ZONE STATE 

Fill  out  and  mail  coupon  today.    Send  cash 
or  money  order.  12  pictures  for  $1 ;  6  for  50c 


65 


Who  Could  Ever  Be  Lonely? 


66 


(Continued  from  page  24) 
designed  showcase  all  her  own.  From  the 
beginning,  he  was  keenly  aware  of  her 
rich  contralto  voice  .  .  .  her  versatility  in 
singing  everything  from  ballads,  rhythm 
tunes,  blues  and  rock  'n'  roll  to  folk  airs 
in  equally  fluent  English  and  French  .  .  . 
her  chic  and  charming  personality  .  .  .  not 
to  mention  her  talent  as  a  violinist,  which 
gave  her  a  strong  additional  claim  to  vir- 
tuoso Benny's  attention! 

As  long  ago  as  January,  1956,  Jack  told 
Gisele— and  continued  to  tell  her — that 
the  time  had  come  for  her  to  quit  the 
Hit  Parade.  "He  said,"  Gisele  recalls, 
"  'Don't  let  the  boat  sail.'  Sounds  cryptic, 
but  I  knew  what  he  meant  .  .  .  that,  if 
you  stay  too  long  in  any  one  place,  on 
any  one  job,  you  may  miss  the  chance 
of  going  on  to  new  experiences,  new  chal- 
lenges .  .  .  the  chance  of  widening  your 
horizons,  of  growing.  I  didn't  quit  then. 
But,  when  my  contract  was  up,  this  past 
January,  and  I  was  asked  whether  I  was 
going  to  remain  with  the  show,  I  said,  'No, 
a  change  is  long  overdue  .  .  .' 

"The  long  overdue  change  began  when 
I  signed  with  Jack's  company,  J  &  M  Pro- 
ductions, and  plans  for  the  show— my 
show — were  begun.  Jack  is  acting  in  the 
capacity  of  adviser.  He  picked  the  writers 
and  the  director.  He  also  chose  the  format 
for  the  show  .  .  .  sort  of  a  loose  format. 
Some  weeks,  we  may  have  a  story  line. 
Other  weeks,  I'll  work  more  with  the 
guests.  Some  weeks,  Jack  will  be  on  with 
me — I  hope.  Some  weeks,  I'll  sing  more 
than  other  weeks  ...  the  idea  being  that 
viewers  will  not  be  able  to  say,  in  the  first 
five  minutes,  'She's  going  to  do  this  or  that.' 
Fluidity — the  'surprise'  element — is  what 
we're  striving  for  and  hoping  the  viewers 
will   enjoy." 

A  network  show  of  this  caliber  takes  a 
deal  of  preparation  and,  during  the  months 
before  its  premiere,  other  experiences  and 
excitements  made  headlines  in  the  accele- 
rated life  of  Winnipeg's  increasingly  famous 
daughter.  Right  after  Your  Hit  Parade 
finished  its  season  last  June,  Gisele  went 
off  to  Las  Vegas  to  play  a  three  weeks' 
engagement  at  The  Flamingo  with— you've 
guessed  it— her  favorite  partner  on  any 
stage  ...  the  thirty-nine-year-young  Mr. 
Benny. 

"Love  working  with  Jack,"  she  sparkles. 
"Working  with  him  is  like  going  to  school. 
You  learn  something  all  the  time.  You 
sense  his  infallible  sense  of  timing.  His 
waiting  for  an  audience  to  react  is  so 
perfect.  You  learn  that  this  man  is  so 
perfect  professionally.  Apart  from  being 
a  born  comedian,  Jack  is  also  a  born  direc- 
tor. He  communicates  his  matchless  sense 
of  timing  to  you.  The  exact  purpose  of 
reading  a  line  this  way,  instead  of  that 
way,  becomes  clear — when  he  reads  it. 
.  .  .  My  only  complaint  about  working  with 
Mr.  B.,"  Gisele  laughs,  "is  that  it's  some- 
times quite  unbearable  when  he  turns 
those  big  blue  eyes  on  you  .  .  .  you  know 
what  I  mean — you've  seen  him  do  it  on 
TV  .  .  .  and  I  break  up,  crumble  up  inside! 
As  an  instance  of  the  type  of  person  Jack 
is  ...  he  insisted  on  co  -billing  for  our  act 
at  The  Flamingo.  You  would  naturally  as- 
sume, as  I  did,  that  the  billing  would  be: 
'Jack  Benny'  in  big  letters,  followed  by 
'with  Gisele  MacKenzie'  in  small  letters. 
But  no.  'Jack  Benny  and  Gisele  MacKen- 
zie,' share  and  share' alike,  is  the  way  the 
act  is  billed.  At  one  point,  he  even  thought 
it  would  be  fun  if  we  were  billed:  Gisele 
MacKenzie  with  Jack  Benny.'  Jack  is  like 
this.  Pretty  perfect  personally,  as  well  as 
professionally." 

Just  before  doing  her  last  show  for  Your 
Hit   Parade    and    leaving    for    Las    Vegas, 


Gisele  spoke  eagerly  of  the  summers 
plans,  both  work  and  play.  "Immediately 
we  finish  our  three  weeks  at  The  Flam- 
ingo," she  glowed,  "I  go  on  to  Dallas,  Texas, 
for  the  lead  in  'Annie  Get  Your  Gun.'  And 
then— then  I  go  to  Europe.  My  first  trip  to 
Europe.  A  first  anything  is  exciting,"  Gisele 
took  a  deep,  deep  breath,  "but  a  first  trip 
to  Europe.  I'm  going  by  boat — just  be- 
cause, to  me,  there'll  be  more  feeling  of 
really  going  to  Europe  on  shipboard  .  .  . 
especially,   the  first  time. 

"While  there,  I'll  make  a  few  appear- 
ances, such  as  on  the  BBC  in  London,  and 
an  in-person  appearance  in  Monte  Carlo. 
Other  than  this,  I'll  just  vacation.  I'll  go 
to  all  the  places  —or  most  of  them— I've 
dreamed  of  all  my  life  .  .  .  Paris  and  Rome 
and  Venice  and  Naples  and  Florence  and 
Zurich.  But,  if  I  were  told  I  could  visit 
only  one  place,  one  city  in  all  of  Europe, 
that  one  city  would  be  Paris.  I'd  rather  see 
Paris  than  any  place  on  earth.  I  have  a 
special  feeling  about  Paris,  and  feel  it  will 
not  be  strange  to  me  ...  as  if  I  had  been 
there  before.  This  may  be  because  of  my 
French  background  and  because  we  spoke 
French  at  home,"  explained  Gisele,  whose 
father  is  Dr.  George  MacKenzie  La  Fleche 
of  Winnipeg  and  whose  mother  is  a  former 
concert  singer  and  pianist  who  was  known 
as  Mme.  Marietta  Monseau. 

"Paris  clothes?"  Gisele  echoed.  "Not 
many.  I  may  buy  one  dress — just,  you 
know,  for  the  sentiment  of  the  thing.  But 
I  can  see  myself  loose  in  the  perfume  shops 
of  Paris,"  she  added,  with  a  glint  in  her 
brilliant  brown  eyes.  "I'm  so  crazy  about 
perfume,  I'll  be  going  right  out  of  my 
head!  Love  all  perfumes*  especially  Vert 
Vent — I  use  gallons  of  it,  but  it's  hard  to 
get  here  in  America,  and  very  expensive. 
I'll  probably  be  brought  home  floating  in 
a  tank  of  it! 

"I'll  come  home,  by  the  way,"  Gisele 
wound  up  her  pre-vacation  anticipations, 
"by  the  polar  flight  .  .  .  leave  from  Paris, 
a  stopover  in  Copenhagen,  then  around 
the  North  Pole  and  on  to  Los  Angeles  .  .  . 
where,  within  a  week,  I'll  start  working 
on — here  come  those  lovely,  scary  words 
again! — my  show." 

With  The  Gisele  MacKenzie  Show  being 
telecast  "live"  from  Hollywood,  she  has 
just  one  regret  in  this  wonderful  year. 
She'll  be  leaving  behind  her  new  apart- 
ment, sixteen  stories  above  New  York's 
Central  Park.  Gisele  leased  it,  a  little  more 
than  a  year  ago,  and  took  such  zestful 
delight  in  furnishing  and  decorating  it  to 
her  own  taste,  in  her  favorite  colors.  This, 
too,  had  been  a  "first"  for  Gisele,  the  first 
place  of  her  own  she  has  ever  had. 

"Since  I  am,  by  nature,  a  mobile  unit, 
easy  to  uproot,"  Gisele  smiles,  "I  really 
don't  mind  leaving  the  apartment  ...  al- 
though there'll  be  things  I'll  miss.  Since  I 
love  to  cook — and  even  love  to  eat  what 
I  cook!— the  things  I'll  miss  most  are  my 
familiar  pots  and  pans  .  .  .  familiar  pots 
and  pans  being  as  indispensable  to  anyone 
who  really  loves  to  cook  as  good  brushes 
and  palette  are  to  the  artist  who  really 
loves  to  paint.  However,  I'm  keeping  the 
apartment,  not  even  sub-letting.  The  pat- 
tern might  change  next  year.  And,  mean- 
while, it  will  be  a  convenient  place  for  my 
relatives  to  stay  when  they  come  to  town 
■ — my  mother  and  father,  perhaps  my  two 
brothers  and  two  sisters. 

"Actually,  I'm  glad  to  be  going  to  Cali- 
fornia. I  used  to  live  there  and,  being  a 
nature  lover,  I  love  it.  Love  having  flowers 
the  year  'round,  love  being  able  to  be  out- 
doors and  in  the  sun  the  year  'round.  I'll 
have  Wolfgang  von  Bagel  and  Brunhilde — 
my  two  long-haired  dachshunds,  common- 
ly called  Wolfie  and  Bruna — with  me. 
Otherwise,  I'll  live  alone  .  .  .  and  love  it! 


"I  do  like  living  alone,"  Gisele  says, 
with  all  the  sincerity  which  is  so  much  a 
part  of  her  nature.  "I  enjoy  it.  It  gives  me 
a  lot  of  peace,  gives  me  freedom  from  the 
tension  of  being  obliged  to  adjust  my  way 
of  life  to  that  of  another  individual.  Under 
present  circumstances,  I  have  enough  ten- 
sion to  overcome,  enough  adjusting  to  do 
in  my  work.  Once  you  are  obliged  to  ad- 
just to  another  person — especially,  I'm 
sure,  if  the  other  person  is  a  husband — 
your  joys  may  be  doubled,  but  so  are  your 
problems,  responsibilities,  and  the  demands 
made  upon  you.  If  I  had  a  husband — par- 
ticularly, if  we  had  children — I  would 
want  to  give  them  much  more  time  than 
a  'career  girl'  could  manage  at  this  point 
in  her  career. 

"V 
I  ou  hear  and  read  quite  a  bit,"  Gisele 

says  soberly,  "about  stars  who  can't  be 
with  their  husbands  or  wives  because  'our 
schedules  don't  permit.'  Sometimes,  they've 
even  had  to  postpone  their  honeymoons 
because  of  'prior  professional  commit- 
ments.' I'd  rather  be  a  bachelor  girl  to 
the  end  of  my  days  than  be  a  party  to 
such  a  way  of  life.  Yet,"  she  sighs  and 
shrugs  her  slim  shoulders,  "what  to  do 
about  it?  I'm  afraid  any  man  I  marry 
would  have  to  be  willing  to  let  me  con- 
tinue with  my  career  ...  I  don't  think  I 
could  live  without  it  now.  If  I  were  obliged 
to  give  it  up,  I  would  really  be  miserable. 
But,  you  ask,  doesn't  love  compensate? 
Not  entirely,  I  suspect.  Part  of  love  is  joy 
in  what  you  are  doing  in  life.  And,  if  you 
are  not  doing  what  you  have  most  loved 
doing  for  as  long  as  you  can  remember  .  .  . 
with  me,  it  was  always  music — piano,  vio- 
lin, singing  .  .  .  you  are  going  to  be  pretty 
unfulfilled,  love  notwithstanding. 

"Perhaps  I  feel  this  way  because  I  have 
never  really  been  in  love?"  Gisele  ponders 
the  question.  "Perhaps.  Perhaps  not.  Either 
way,  I  would  still  feel  as  I  do  because  it 
seems  to  me  that,  so  often,  the  very 
women  who  give  up  their  careers  for  love 
are  the  very  women  who  cry  on  your 
shoulder,  once  the  honeymoon  is  over,  and 
the  first  thing  you  know — boom — they're 
right  back  there  on  stage  or  camera  again 
In  my  opinion,  only  a  woman  who  gen- 
uinely dislikes  her  career  and  is  glad  to 
have  a  man  take  her  out  of  it — who's  beer, 
waiting  for  a  man  to  take  her  out  of  it — 
is  wise  in  bowing  out  of  her  career.  Other- 
wise, she's  kidding  herself. 

"To  be  married  to  another  singer — 
which  has  been  suggested  to  me  as  an 
idyllic  arrangement,"  Gisele  laughs,  "this. 
I  think,  would  be  terrible!  I  can  just  imag- 
ine the  daily  dialogue:  'Let  me  teach  you 
how  to  sing  this  song.'  'Teach  me?  Why- 
it's  my  song,  I  introduced  it!'  'No,  no. 
phrase  it  my  way — much  better  phrasing.' 
Oh,  no,"  Gisele  shudders.  "Someone  in  the 
business,  yes,  possibly  ...  a  writer,  pro- 
ducer, director  .  .  .  but  not  a  co-star.  For 
the  danger  in  that  is — how  long  do  you 
remain  'co'?  All  at  once,  one  goes  ahead  of 
the  other,  one  is  in  demand,  the  other  is 
not  .  .  .  and  the  ending  to  that  little  story 
is  not,  in  a  word,  idyllic. 

"A  doctor?  Perhaps — ever  get  laryngitis, 
he'd  be  right  there!  A  lawyer?  A  veterin- 
arian? With  any  professional  man,  you 
might  well  strike  the  snag  that  he's  not 
willing  for  his  wife  to  continue  her  own 
career.  Unless  a  man  is  very,  very  under- 
standing and  can  laugh  at  being  called — 
well,  Mr.  Gisele  MacKenzie,  for  instance! 
— he  doesn't  take  kindly  to  the  life  of  a 
career  woman's  husband.  Especially,  if  hei 
is  the  strong,  masculine,  normal-type  guyjj 
you  would  naturally  want  him  to  be. 

"Still,    why    worry    about    it?"    Gisel 
laughs.    "Usually,    love    happens    to    you 
when  you  least  expect  it  .  .  .  and  with  th 


one  you  least  expect — or  want — it  to  hap- 
pen with.  The  tall,  good-looking  fellow, 
friend  of  the  family— they  like  him,  you've 
known  him  all  your  life — just  the  right  one 
for  you  to  marry  .  .  .  you  don't  fall  in  love 
with  him.  The  one  you  fall  in  love  with  is 
a  stranger,  a  naughty  fellow,  the  one  the 
family  doesn't  like,  the  one  you  shouldn't 
marry.  So  I,"  Gisele  grins  impishly,  "shall 
bide  my  marryin'  time  .  .  .  and,  since  I 
have  a  lot  of  men  all  around  me,  pain- 
lessly! 

"I  actually  do  have  a  lot  of  men  around 
me.  My  manager,  Bob  Shuttleworth.  My 
agents  at  Music  Corporation  of  America. 
When  I  want  tickets  for  a  Broadway  show, 
all  I  need  do  is  call  Lee  Shepp  at  MCA 
and  he  gets  them  for  me.  Any  trips  I  make, 
Lee  gets  the  tickets,  delivers  them  by 
hand,  arranges  transportation  to  the  station 
or  airport.  If  I  travel  anywhere  alone, 
whatever  the  destination,  I  am  met  by  one 
of  the  MCA  men.  Always  a  man  to  help 
me,  no  matter  where.  My  business  man- 
ager, George  Gottfried  of  Beverly  Hills, 
handles  all  my  money.  Since  I'm  not  a 
homeowner,  if  the  roof  leaks  or  the  plumb- 
ing fails,  it's  the  superintendent's  head- 
ache, not  mine.  All  of  which  means  that 
I'm  not  obliged  to  do  any  of  the  things 
about  which  women  who  live  alone — and 
hate  it — complain. 

"As  a  matter  of  fact,"  she  adds,  "when 
you're  on  television,  you  soon  find  out  you 
are  very  seldom  alone.  If  a  movie  star  is 
in  Saks  Fifth  Avenue,  all  people  do  is 
point  to  her  and  say,  'Ooh,  there's  Deborah 
Kerr!'  They  don't  go  near  her.  Just  stare. 
But,  if  I'm  in  there,  it's  the  slap  on  the 
back  and  a  cheery,  'Hey,  Gisele,  how're 
the  dogs?'  Same  with  taxicab  drivers,  truck 
drivers,  waiters,  grocery  clerks,  house- 
wives, teenagers.  TV  is  so  personal,  you 
see.  You're  in  people's  homes.  They  feel 
they  really  know  you — so  why  not?  I  find 
it  very  warming. 

"Nevertheless,  I've  been  asked  if  it  isn't 
lonely  when  I  close  the  door  of  my  apart- 
ment— or  wherever  I  happen  to  be  living 
— and  there's  no  one  there.  No,  not  for  me, 
it  isn't.  I  repeat:  I  like  to  be  alone.  I  think 
every  woman  should  be  alone,  and  quiet, 
some  part  of  every  day.  Often,  I  find  I 
don't  even  turn  on  the  radio  or  TV — can't 
hear  my  thoughts.  I  like  to  hear  my 
thoughts.  They  are,  for  the  most  part, 
pleasant  ones.  I  don't  get  gloomy  or  blue 
very  often,  or  for  very  long.  A  day  or  two, 
perhaps,  and  then — 'All  right,'  I  say  to  my- 
self, 'that's  enough  of  that,  pick  yourself 
up!'  And  I  do. 

"T 
1  don't  worry  too  much.     Right  now,  of 

course,  I'm  both  scared  and  glad  that  my 
show  is  my  show — The  Gisele  MacKenzie 
Show — which  means  terrific  responsibility 
and  a  lot  of  hard  work.  I'm  not  going  to 
j  let  it  throw   me  too  much,   not   going  to 
I  think    at   all   about   the   ratings.    To   heck 
:  with  them!    Like  so  many  others,  I  think 
I  the    rating    system    should    be    dispensed 
i  with  altogether.  Too  nervous-making  for 
|  performers  .  .  .  which  doesn't  do  anyone 
any  good,  audience  or  advertiser. 
j  ■    "To  sum  up,  I'm  happy,"  Gisele  smiles. 
,  "No,  not  completely  happy — is  there   any 
;  such  thing  as  a  completely  happy  human 
being?  It's  simply  not  in  human  nature  . . . 
and,  I  suspect,  not  meant  to  be.  The  best 
I  you  can  achieve  is  contentment  .  .  .  which 
!  is  better,  because  it's  calmer,  more  stable, 
|  more    lasting   than    happiness.    My   father 
taught  me  how  to  be  contented.  He  hasn't 
|  got    much,    but    he    likes    what    he's    got. 
That's  the  secret  of  contentment.  If  some- 
thing extra  is  handed  to  you,  it's  just  that 
much  nicer! 

"Meanwhile,"  says  Gisele  MacKenzie, 
from  the  heart,  "I  like  what  I've  got.  I 
couldn't— how  could  I,  at  this  moment?— 
ask  for  more." 


Exciting  New  Album 


Here's  something  new  .  .  .  something 
extra  special  for  xv  and  radio  fans.  It's 
a  picture  album  produced  by  the 
editors  of  tv-radio  mirror.  Here  are 
new  and  exciting  pictures  of  your  all- 
time  favorites,  as  well  as  dramatic 
photographs  of  the  shining  new  stars. 
Here,  also,  you  read  about  the  roles 
these  famous  celebrities  play  in  real 
life.  For  greater  xv  and  radio  enjoy- 
ment get  your  copy  of  this  sensational 
album  now. 

New  Season  .  .  .  New  Shows 

New  stars  are  being  made,  new  songs 
sung,  new  murders  plotted,  as  a  new 
season  gets  under  way. 
All  over  the  networks,  people  who  are 
well  known  to  you  will  be  turning  up 
in  new  spots  and  in  new  roles.  For 
the  most  glamorous  pictures  of  the 
new  season,  get  your  hands  on  a  copy 

Of  XV-RADIO  ALBUM. 

Big   Pictures 

xv-radio  album  is  just  packed  solid 
with  pictures  .  .  .  wonderful  pictures! 
But  the  most  exciting  ones  are  the  big 
full-page  pictures.  Never  before  have 


we  published  so  many  giant-size  pic- 
tures. These  full-page  true-to-life  por- 
traits are  so  unusual  that  you  will  want 
to  frame  each  one  of  them. 
Make  no  mistake  about  this  great 
album — it's  tops.  It  contains  gorgeous 
pictures  of  all  your  favorite  xv  and 
radio  stars.  Here  in  one  compact  vol- 
ume you  have  the  latest  pictures  of 
every  famous  xv  and  radio  personality. 

A  Prize  Package 
Only  50£  At  All  Newsstands 

This  wonderful  xv-radio  album  is 
available  at  your  favorite  magazine 
counter — now.  Get  your  copy  at  once 
before  they  are  all  gobbled  up!  Only 
50^.  If  your  newsdealer  is  sold  out, 
mail  coupon  below,  with   50^',  today. 

r........-................n 

TV-RADIO    MIRROR  Dept.    WG-1057 

205  E.  42  St.,  New  York  17.  N.  Y. 

Send  me  XV-RADIO  ALBUM  1957.  I  en- 
close 50c. 


Name 

Please  Print 


Address 

City State. 


67 


Truth — and  Its  Consequences 


(Continued  from  page  32) 
radio  and  television,  Barker's  "big  chance" 
has     finally    come     along — proving,     once 
again,  that  hard  work  pays  off. 

Though  Bob  describes  himself  as  one 
who  is  unable  to  sing,  dance,  or  tell  funny 
stories,  he  is  a  dedicated  showman,  waxes 
most  enthusiastic  when  he  is  entertaining 
people.  How  did  this  enthusiasm  develop? 
On  his  first  radio  job.  .  .  . 

As  Bob  recalls  his  first  day  at  KTTS,  the 
Springfield,  Missouri  radio  station  where 
he  got  his  start  eleven  years  ago,  "I  was 
working  with  an  old  grizzled  engineer  who 
wondered  about  my  starting  radio  work  on 
one  hand  and,  on  the  other,  studying 
economics  at  Drury  College.  He  said,  'Boy, 
what  are  you  planning  to  do  with  your- 
self?' I  answered,  'I'm  going  on  to  gradu- 
ate school  .  .  .  maybe  join  a  big  company 
as  an  administrator.'  He  looked  at  me  for 
a  second  and  said,  'Listen,  youngster,  if 
you  stick  around  here  for  six  months, 
you'll  never  want  to  do  anything  else.' " 

The  engineer  was  right.  After  working 
at  KTTS  for  six  months  as  news  writer, 
announcer,  disc  jockey  and  handyman,  Bob 
never  wanted  to  do  anything  else — he  eats, 
sleeps  and  breathes  radio  and  television. 
In  his  spare  time,  he  watches  other  TV 
emcees  ("It's  like  going  to  school")  and 
listens  to  the  radio  in  bed  at  night.  Radio 
and  TV  are  Barker's  primary  interests — 
his  job  is  his  hobby. 

.Bob's  rewards  come  from  the  success  of 
the  show.  "I  read  something  of  Al  Capp's 
once,"  says  Bob,  whose  favorite  comic 
strip  is  "Li'l  Abner."  "Capp  said  that,  when 
his  cartoon  is  doing  well,  he  feels  like  a 
young  man,  like  a  million  dollars,  like  his 
clothes  look  good  on  him.  But  when  Ab- 
ner' is  going  badly,  he  knows  that  he  is 
getting  old,  he's  grumpy  in  the  morning, 
and  he's  sure  his  suits  don't  fit.  I  feel  the 
same  way.  When  a  show  doesn't  quite 
come  off,  I'm  at  my  lowest  ebb;  when  it 
goes  well,  I'm  flying." 

One  great  reason  for  Bob's  interest  in 
his  work  is  that  he  loves  meeting  people, 
and  each  day  he  greets  dozens  as  guests, 
plus  hundreds  in  his  audiences.  It's  an 
interest  he's  always  had.  When  Bob  and 
his  lovely  wife  Dorothy  Jo  first  came  to 
Hollywood,  they  did  a  show  in  San  Fer- 
nando Valley  for  an  appliance  dealer 
whose  display  was  set  up  in  the  Depart- 
ment of  Water  and  Power.  Later,  the 
Edison  Company  asked  him  to  do  the  same 
show  in  their  auditoriums  throughout 
Southern  California. 

At  their  first  show  in  Alhambra,  one  of 
Bob's  guests  was  a  sprightly,  seventy-five- 
year-old  lady  by  the  name  of  Maude  Hall. 
"Maude,"  says  Bob  proudly,  "is  now  in 
her  80's,  but  hasn't  missed  a  show  of  ours 
at  the  Alhambra  Auditorium  in  seven 
years.  I  call  that  friendship.  This  may 
sound  corny  to  some,  but  our  dearest 
friends  are  made  right  on  our  show.  Our 
guests  are  the  most  important  people  in 
the  world  to  us.  Let's  face  it — I'm  not  a 
'stand-up  comic'  Yet  I  am  making  a  living 
with  a  microphone.  It  stands  to  reason,  the 
credit  goes  to  the  folks  on  our  shows." 

Eleven  years  of  hard  work  on  Bob's  part 
paid    off    one    day    last    December,    when 
Truth    Or    Consequences    executive-pro- 
ducer   Ralph    Edwards — driving    his    two 
daughters,    Chris    and    Laurie,    to    their 
Christmas   shopping — chanced   to   pick   up 
the   Bob  Barker  radio   show   on  KHJ.   "I 
heard  a  solid  thirty  minutes  of  audience 
J    laughter,"   recalls  Ralph,   "and  the   emcee 
*    work  was  so  good  I  thought  it  was  a  series 
of  clips  from   one  man's  best  work.   The 
way  Bob  drew  laughs  from  that  crowd  was 
sheer    artistry.    Not    hearing    his    name,    I 
68 


asked  Chris  and  Laurie  to  listen  for  it— 
and  I  called  him  the  next  day." 

"The  call  was  placed  by  Ralph's  brother, 
Paul,"  Bob  remembered.  "When  I  returned 
the  call,  the  operator  said,  'Ralph  Ed- 
wards Productions,'  and  I  wondered  what 
they  wanted  with  me.  When  I  told  the 
secretary  that  Paul  had  said  it  was  im- 
portant, she  replied  he  was  in  conference 
with  Ralph,  but  she'd  try  to  get  through 
to  him.  Then  it  was  Ralph  himself  who 
said,  'Hello.'  You  could  have  knocked  me 
down  with  a  feather." 

Ralph  asked  Bob  if  he  were  the  Bob 
Barker  of  the  radio  show.  Bob  said  yes. 
"I  want  you  to  know,"  said  Ralph,  "I  think 
you  do  an  excellent  job."  Bob  will  remem- 
ber his  reaction:  "This  bowled  me  over 
...  I  had  been  a  fan  of  Ralph's  for  years, 
he  had  been  my  model,  so  the  compliment 
was  like  having  Joe  DiMaggio  tell  a  rookie 
he  knew  how  to  play  ball  well." 

Ed  Bailey,  Truth  Or  Consequences  pro- 
ducer, describes  the  staff's  first  meeting 
with  Bob:  "When  Ralph  mentioned  to  us 
he  had  heard  this  terrific  radio  emcee," 
says  Ed,  "I  remarked  that,  on  radio,  he 
could  be  fat  and  have  two  heads.  But  how 
would  he  come  across  on  television?  Since 
none  of  us  had  seen  Bob,  we  were  thunder- 
struck when  in  walked  this  tall,  good-look- 
ing young  man,  with  a  smile  that  made  you 
glad  to  be  in  the  same  room  with  him. 

"The  more  we  talked,"  Bailey  continues, 
"the  more  sure  we  were  he'd  be  right  for 
T  Or  C.  Yet,  as  producer,  I  had  the  normal 
apprehensions  about  a  relative  newcomer 
stepping  into  a  five-a-week  national  tele- 
vision show.  After  the  audition,  though,  I 
threw  my  worries  to  the  winds.  Ralph  had 
kept  saying,  'I  wish  he  would  so  something 
wrong  .  .  .  he's  just  too  good!'  Within 
thirty  minutes,  we  agreed  the  national 
television  audience  was  about  to  meet  a 
personality  destined   for   stardom." 

Producer  Bailey  loves  to  blow  the 
trumpets  of  praise  in  Bob's  favor:  "In  all 
my  years  of  show  business,  I've  never 
worked  with  anyone  who  impressed  me 
more  on  a  first  audition,  and  who  con- 
tinued to  improve  as  we  did  more  shows. 
Bob  has  great  intelligence,  can  grasp  the 
content  of  a  stunt  in  seconds.  We  go  over 
an  act  with  him  once,  then  he  goes  ahead 
and  ad-libs  it.  He  has  a  pin-sharp  mem- 
ory— and  it  seems  to  improve  as  we  con- 
tinue doing  more  shows." 

Bob's  reaction  to  this  first  chance  at  his 
own  national  television  show  was  one  full 
week  of  nerves.  "I  lost  ten  pounds,"  he 
admits.  "But  Ed  Bailey  looked  after  me 
like  a  father.  Ed's  a  great  gourmet,  knows 
all  the  best  eating  spots  in  Hollywood  and 
took  me  out  to  lunch  every  day.  I  soon 
gained  back  the  ten  pounds.  If  I'm  not 
careful,"  Bob  says  with  a  wry  grin,  "I'll 
be  heavier  than  Mr.  Bailey." 

Bob  Barker  was  born  some  thirty-four 
years  ago  in  Darrington,  Washington,  but 
spent  the  bulk  of  his  early  childhood  in 
the  Midwest.  His  father  worked  as  a 
high -lineman.  The  big  construction  jobs 
he  followed  through  the  Northwest  kept 
the  family  constantly  on  the  move.  Too 
many  moves  in  early  life  make  it  tough 
on  youngsters,  and  Bob  admits  the  con- 
stant changes  didn't  help  him  develop  a 
feeling  of  permanence  or  security. 

And  then,  when  Bob  was  six,  his  father 
died.  "That  was  the  beginning  of  the  De- 
pression," Bob  recalls,  "and  it  was  Mother 
who  supported  us.  For  a  while,  we  lived 
in  hotels.  Then,  when  things  got  rough,  we 
went  back  to  my  mother's  home  in  Mis- 
sion, South  Dakota,  where  she  taught 
school  on  the  Rosebud  Indian  Reserva- 
tion." Bob's  father  was  part  Sioux;  his 
mother,  raised  in  the  area,  knew  enough 


Indian  lore  to  write  a  book  on  Dakota 
history.  A  story-teller  by  nature,  she  kept 
Bob's  little-boy  interest  captured  by  her 
tales  of  the  old  West.  He  says  shyly,  "I 
suppose  every  boy  thinks  his  mother  is  the 
greatest  mother  in  the  world  .  .  .  I'm  no 
exception." 

Bob's  father  had  been  a  great  sports 
enthusiast.  Before  he  died,  he  had  taken 
Bob  to  every  available  football,  baseball 
and  basketball  game.  "When  I  was  ten, 
and  old  enough  to  play  the  games  myself," 
says  Bob,  "I  most  admired  the  fellows  on 
the  Rosebud  Reservation  basketball  team. 
Jimmy  Bartlet  and  Chris  Yellow  Robe 
were  my  heroes." 

With  a  love  of  sports  in  his  blood,  Bob's 
childhood  ambition  was  to  become  a 
pitcher  some  day  for  the  St.  Louis  Cardi- 
nals (the  team  his  dad  had  liked).  "I  had 
pictures  of  every  baseball  player  tacked 
up  in  my  room,"  he  remembers  with  a 
faraway  look  in  his  eyes.  "I  played  base- 
ball from  morning  to  night,  read  every 
sports  magazine  and  every  book  on  base- 
ball. All  I  cared  about  was  pitching  for 
the  St.  Louis  Cards." 

But  the  time  came  when  Bob  had  to 
make  a  choice — he  had  an  opportunity  to 
continue  with  his  baseball  in  a  summer 
league,  at  no  pay,  or  else  give  up  his 
dream  and  take  a  job  as  a  bellhop  to  help 
out  financially  at  home.  It  was  a  hard 
decision  for  a  young  man  to  make,  but 
Bob,  always  more  mature  than  his  years, 
knew  which  way  he  would  go.  "As  it 
worked  out,"  he  smiles,  "the  three  sum- 
mers I  spent  at  Lake  Taneycomo,  in  Mis- 
souri's Piney  County,  were  the  happiest  of 
my  life.  Our  high-school  history  teacher, 
Mr.  Charles  White,  was  in  charge,  and  took 
a  number  of  boys  from  school  to  help  out 
at  the  hotel.  But  we  were  unlike  any  bell- 
hops you  ever  saw — the  boats  at  the  re- 
sort, the  swimming,  dancing  and  our  meals 
were  all  free.  We  had  a  ball." 

When  Bob  was  in  his  teens,  he  and  his 
mother  moved  to  Springfield,  Missouri, 
where  she  continued  teaching  school,  and 
where  Bob  met  and  married  his  high- 
school  sweetheart,  Dorothy  Jo  Gideon. 
"When  we  moved  to  Missouri,"  says  Bob, 
"I  met  Jim  ('Green  Door')  Lowe.  We  be- 
came high- school  chums.  At  the  time,  he 
and  Dorothy  Jo  were  friends,  lived  a  block 
apart,  and  had  been  buddies  for  years. 

"Jim  introduced  us.  He  had  a  spur-of- 
the-moment  idea  to  go  hear  Ella  Fitzgerald 
at  the  Shrine  Mosque,  asked  me  to  go 
along.  'I  don't  have  a  date,'  I  told  him. 
'I'll  fix  you  up  with  Dorothy  Jo  Gideon, 
he  said.  I'd  admired  'DJ'  from  a  distance. 
But,  not  wanting  to  look  too  eager  at  the 
time,  I  wasn't  about  to  tell  Jim  I  was  all 
for  it.  Crossing  my  fingers  I  un-enthused, 
'Oh,  I  don't  know  .  .  .  I've  never  met 
Dorothy  Jo.'  'Leave  it  to  me,'  Jim  said. 
'DJ  is  my  oldest  friend.' 

"So  that's  the  way  we  met — double- 
dating  at  an  Ella  Fitzgerald  songfest.  On 
our  second  date,  we  heard  Russ  Morgan's 
band.  I  didn't  need  Jim  to  ask  DJ  for  me 
this  time — we  had  hit  it  off  just  right  on 
our  first  date.  And,  when  Russ  Morgan 
played  'Does  Your  Heart  Beat  for  Me? 
I  knew  that  Dorothy  Jo  was  the  girl  for 
me.  She  went  home  that  night  to  tell  her 
mother  she  was  going  to  marry  that  new 
boy,  Bob  Barker.  Since  she  was  only 
fifteen  at  the  time,  this  came  as  a  shock 
to  her  mother." 

Dorothy  Jo  explains,  "I  had  known  Bob 
from  a  distance,  too.  What  I  knew  I  liked: 
He  was  sports  editor  on  our  Hi  Times 
newspaper,  co-captain  of  the  basketball 
team,  and  announcer  at  the  football  games, 
But  none  of  that  made  any  difference  tc 


me.  He  was  ever  so  romantic  ...  I  knew 
that  after  our  first  date.  I  just  thought  he 
was  pretty — that  was  my  entire  interest. 
It's  what  I  told  my  folks,  who  were  wait- 
ing up  when  I  returned  home.  I  didn't 
know  what  Bob  intended  becoming  after 
school,  didn't  care.  I  just  wanted  to  marry 
him.  But  it  was  a  long  courtship.  Even  in 
Missouri,"  says  Dorothy  Jo  with  a  laugh, 
''you  can't  marry  until  eighteen — a  three- 
year  wait." 

"After  our  second  date,"  Bob  says,  "we 
were  going  steady.  Like  most  kids,  we 
broke  up  now  and  then,  but  we  always 
went  back  together.  Why  the  breakups? 
It's  normal  for  kids,  I  suppose.  For  one 
thing,  I  started  calling  her  'Tubby' — and 
she  started  calling  me  'Skinny.'  At  the 
time,  I  weighed  135— DJ,  142." 

"There  are  two  very  simple  reasons  for 
the  weight,"  explains  Dorothy  Jo.  "For 
ine,  Bob  and  his  mother  live  close  to 
Drury  College.  I  ate  lunch  with  him — and, 
Irequently,  a  second  lunch  put  out  for 
re  at  home.  On  the  other  hand,  the  only 
;ime  Bob  came  over  to  our  place  for  din- 
ler,  he  got  the  mumps,  and  never  came 
oack!  The  second  reason  for  the  weight 
vvas  a  plain  cheese  sandwich  .  .  .  with 
jutter.  Talk  about  calories!  At  Bob's  place, 
;hose  cheese  things  were  all  we  ever  ate. 
i  don't  mind — the  cheese  sandwiches  make 
urn  the  world's  easiest  man  to  cook  for." 

Bob  and  Dorothy  Jo  were  married  when 
le  won  his  Navy  wings  in  1944.  "It  was  a 
aectic  affair,"  remembers  Bob.  "I  left 
Corpus  Christi  to  meet  Dorothy  Jo  in 
Springfield.  If  you've  ever  tried  to  get 
lotel  reservations  in  wartime,  you  know 
A^hat  our  problem  was.  ...  A  flyer  friend 
)f  mine,  Howard  Hessick,  finally  made 
•eservations  for  us  at  a  small  hotel. 

"Poor  Dorothy  Jo  had  to  make  all  the 
urangements  for  her  own  wedding — I  was 


on  duty  at  the  Air  Base.  She  bought  the 
ring,  arranged  for  the  license,  even  bought 
my  train  ticket.  When  I  joined  her  in 
Springfield,  we  had  everything  but  a  min- 
ister. Had  to  look  in  the  yellow  pages  to 
find  one.  The  ceremony  took  place  in  his 
home,  with  a  record  machine  in  the  next 
room  playing  'Make  Believe.'  It  seemed  so, 
too.  Poor  Dorothy  Jo  didn't  even  get  flow- 
ers, and  nobody  threw  rice — we  didn't 
have  the  food  stamps.  Speaking  of  food," 
Bob  concludes,  "since  our  earliest  days, 
I've  put  on  a  little  weight — now  weigh 
170 — and  Dorothy  Jo  has  a  lovely  107- 
pound  figure.  Don't  let  anybody  kid  you 
into  thinking  people  don't  change  after 
marriage!" 

After  the  war,  Bob,  still  in  uniform, 
tried  for  several  other  jobs  before  he 
walked  into  radio  station  KTTS  one  day. 
"I  simply  stopped  in  to  see  if  there  were 
a  vacancy,"  shrugs  Bob.  "I  didn't  care 
what  I  did,  I  was  just  looking  for  a  pay- 
check to  help  me  finish  school.  The  station 
manager  asked  me  if  I  would  like  to 
audition.  Not  knowing  exactly  what  that 
was,  I  said  yes,  I  was  all  for  it.  Every 
audition  since  then  has  scared  me  to  death. 
But  ignorance  being  bliss,  this  one  fazed 
me  not.  The  manager  gave  me  a  sheaf 
of  news  and  commercials  to  read.  When 
I   was   through,   I  had  the  job." 

Since  KTTS  was  a  small  station,  Bob 
worked  as  a  news  writer,  announcer,  disc 
jockey  and  general  handy  man.  It  was 
weeks  before  he  was  given  his  first  chance 
at  announcing.  "I  had  a  sneaking  sus- 
picion that  this  would  be  the  day  Bob 
was  to  read  his  first  newscast,"  reports 
Dorothy  Jo,  who  was  then  teaching  school. 
"7  was  the  one  with  stage  fright.  I  didn't 
know  if  he  could  get  through  a  sentence 
without  a  struggle.  So  I  listened  to  every 


newscast — then  there  it  was.  No  mistaking 
that  Barker  voice.  I  was  pleasantly  sur- 
prised to  find  he  could  read  from  one 
comma  to  another.  Seriously,  I  was  quite 
impressed  and  proud  of  my  husband." 

From  KTTS,  Bob  and  Dorothy  Jo  went 
to  Station  WWPG  in  Palm  Beach,  Florida, 
where  DJ  taught  in  the  local  high  school 
while  Bob  picked  up  general  announcing 
and  disc- jockey  duties  at  the  station.  It 
was  here  that  he  began  putting  together 
the  format  of  his  current  Bob  Barker 
radio  audience-participation  show,  and  DJ 
began  spending  more  and  more  time  help- 
ing with  the  production  chores  and  less 
time  teaching. 

The  Barkers  left  Florida,  chased  out  by 
the  area's  greatest  hurricane.  Bob  had  been 
feeding  the  story  of  the  big  wind  to  the 
NBC  radio  network  from  the  station's 
beachfront  building  (reputed  to  be  the 
safest  place  in  town)  when  the  chandelier 
filled  with  water  and  came  crashing  down 
on  a  divan  Bob  and  DJ  had  been  resting 
on  only  a  moment  before. 

They  arrived  in  Hollywood  with  a 
dwindling  bank  account  and  no  immediate 
prospects.  Bob's  first  try  for  a  job  in  Hol- 
lywood was  as  a  time  salesman  for  a 
local  radio  station.  Three  hours  later,  an 
appliance  dealer  agreed  to  sponsor  a  show, 
but  insisted  that  Bob  star  as  the  emcee. 
The  Bob  Barker  Show  was  born  and, 
since  then,  has  been  heard  on  a  number 
of  local  Hollywood  stations,  most  recently 
on  KHJ,  five  days  a  week. 

It  was  this  show  which  Ralph  Edwards 
heard  while  out  Christmas  shopping  with 
his  daughters,  and  this  show  which  cata- 
pulted Bob  into  his  current  starring  spot 
five  times  each  week  on  Truth  Or  Con- 
sequences, over  NBC-TV  and  Radio.  Bob's 
eleven  years  of  hard  work,  his  abiding  in- 
terest in  his  fellowman,  has  paid  off. 


Bobbie  Herb, 

Zeta  Tau  Alpha, 

DUKE  UNIVERSITY, 

says  "I  love  SOLITAIR! 

It's  lovely  for  evening  but 

light  enough  to  look 

wonderful  in  daylight." 


Bobbie  is  one  of  three 

semi-finalists  in  Campana,s 

nationwide  College 

Beauty  Queen  Contest. 

Winner  receives  a 

111     ten  day  trip  to  Hawaii 

via  Northwest  Orient 

Airlines  and 

will  stay  at  the 

Royal  Hawaiian  Hotel. 


College  Beauties 
prefer  ^owJcuk, 

the  young  make-up 

with  the  NATURAL  look 

It's  the  young  look... the  clear,  fresh  beauty 
Solitair  gives  that  has  captured  the  hearts  of  lovely 
co-eds  all  over  the  country.  Solitair — with  a 
remarkable  new  skin  discovery  called  Vita-Lite — 
gives  such  a  smooth,  fresh,  natural  look 
that  it's  a  campus  favorite  by  day — a  girl's  best 
friend  by  candlelight! 

Smooth  on  Solitair  with  a  moist  sponge — 
Vita-Lite  penetrates... helps  restore  moisture... 
stimulates  circulation.  Suddenly  you're  lovelier  than 
ever — and  day  by  day  your  complexion  improves 
...tired  lines  seem  to  disappear. 

See  for  yourself.  Get  Solitair,  the  "moisture 
miracle"  make-up... for  the  youngest, 
prettiest  face  you've  ever  had! 

by  CAM  PAN  A 

35i,  69*,  $1.25  plus  tax  in  better  drug  and  all  variety  stores 


69 


(Continued  from  page  37) 
he  didn't  want  to  seem  conceited,  and  he 
didn't  want  to  do  the  girl  in  the  case  an 
injustice,  but  he  had  detected  in  her  con- 
versation a  broad  hint  that  if  he  would 
advance  her  career.  .  .  . 

Art  explained  that  the  experience  was 
not  unusual  for  anyone  who  had  a  "name" 
in  show  business — there  would  always  be 
those  who  imagined  that  talent  and  hard 
work  were  secondary,  while  "contacts" 
and  a  "sponsor"  were  of  top  importance. 
"It's  just  as  well  that  you've  met  up  with 
the  theory  now,  instead  of  later,  when  love 
and  trust  might  have  been  involved.  Now 
you  know  what  to  guard  against." 

Jack  was  a  woman-hater  for  almost  a 
week.  Then  he  met  a  young  singer.  "You'll 
be  crazy  about  her,"  he  told  his  parents. 
"She  believes  in  getting  where  she  wants 
to  go  under  her  own  power.  Work!  That 
girl  studies,  take  lessons,  practices  .  .  ." 

"How  about  double-dating  with  us  at 
the  Cocoanut  Grove  Tuesday  night?"  Art 
asked  his  son.  He  was  taken  up  instantly, 
as  he  had  been  many  times  in  the  past — 
and  was  to  be  often  in  the  future. 

Jack's  first  year  of  college  (at  U.S.C. 
where  his  social  fraternity  is  Beta  Theta 
Pi  and  his  scholastic  major  is  Telecom- 
munications) was  a  repetition  of  high 
school,  romance-wise.  Each  girl,  in  turn, 
was  the  most  beautiful,  the  neatest,  the 
sweetest,  the  greatest.  Matrimony  was  al- 
ways just  around  the  corner. 

During  the  summer  of  Jack's  eighteenth 
year — 1956 — he  spent  three  months  in 
Munich  working  for  Radio  Free  Europe. 
Inevitably  there  was  a  girl.  Brilliant.  Com- 
petent. Flaxen  hair,  flawless  complexion. 
The  goddess  had  but  one  almost  invisible 
flaw.  She  always  decided  where  she  and 
Jack  would  dine — and  she  ordered  the 
dinner.  Also,  she  coached  Jack  in  politics, 
in  diplomacy,  and  in  German  grammar. 
He  reported  that  his  ego  had  sunk  so 
deep  he  was  beginning  to  yearn  for  the 
good  old  U.S.A. 

One  of  Jack's  first  activities,  after  re- 
turning to  California,  was  to  join  a  group 
of  his  fraternity  brothers  in  a  patrol  of 
U.C.L.A.  terrain.  The  occasion  of  Jack's 
crosstown  trip  was  "Presents"  (accent  on 
the  last  syllable) — the  presentation  of 
pretty,  new  sorority  pledges  to  all  in- 
terested observers.  Unfortunately,  Jack  & 
Brethren  were  a  little  late  for  dates.  After 
covering  Sorority  Row,  the  tardy  Betas 
returned  to  a  favorite  staging  area,  the 
Alpha  Chi  Omega  house.  "We're  desper- 
ate," they  confessed.  "We're  in  need  of 
dates — with  the  result  that  we  will  be 
kind  to  some  of  your  Older  Types.  How 
about  lining  up  some  seniors,  preferably 
without  crutches?" 

A  senior  named  Barbara  Hughes  (so 
recently  returned  from  a  vacation  in 
Honolulu  that  her  usual  dates  hadn't 
caught  up  with  her  yet)  was  available. 
However,  she  knew  that  a  sorority  sister 
had  dated  Jack  in  the  past,  so  she  checked 
with  a  chapter  heartbreak  authority  for 
clearance.  She  was  told  that  there  was  no 
conflict,  and  that  Jack  was  a  "fun"  date. 

The  evening  proved  to  be  a  Royal  Ball. 
The  orchestra  at  the  spot  where  they 
stopped  for  a  dance  played  "Friendly  Per- 
suasion." The  juke  at  the  hamburger  haven 
played  "Friendly  Persuasion."  Even  the 
car  radio  tuned  in  on  "Friendly  Persua- 
sion." Appropriately,  Jack — in  friendly 
manner — tried  to  persuade  Barbara  that 
_  a  summer  in  Munich  was  the  greatest 
v  (such  gorgeous  girls)  .  .  .  whereas  she  in- 
sisted  that  Munich  was  Germany,  but 
Honolulu  was  paradise  (those  boys  on  the 
beach!). 

Jack    kidded    Barbara    about    her    age. 
70 


Jack  of  Hearts 

"You're  pretty  well  preserved  to  be  a 
senior,"  he  told  her.  "How  old  are  you, 
anyhow?"  She  said  she  was  twenty.  She 
would  be  twenty-one  on  October  24.  How 
old  was  he?  Eighteen-year-old  Jack  said 
without  hesitation,  "I'll  be  twenty-one  on 
November  20" — carefully  neglecting  to 
specify  what  year. 

Fleetingly,  Barbara  wondered  how  it 
happened  that  a  boy  so  bright  should  be 
two  years  behind  her  in  school,  although 
he  was  less  than  a  month  younger.  But, 
later  that  night,  she  told  her  roommates 
that  she  had  enjoyed  her  date  with  Jack 
very  much.  He  seemed,  she  said,  amazingly 
down-to-earth.  He  was  fun,  he  was  at- 
tentive, and  not  even  Arthur  Godfrey 
could  have  discerned  any  lack  of  humility. 

"And  he's  so  mature  to  be  only  eighteen," 
piped  up  an  ever-helpful  freshman.  "He's 
how  old?"  demanded  Barbara.  "Eighteen," 
stated  the  freshman  flatly.  "I  was  in  high 
school  with  him,  so  I  know." 

For  the  first  time  in  her  life,  Barbara 
felt  that  twenty -five  months  was  roughly 
equivalent  to  a  twenty-five-year  seniority. 
She  scanned  her  mirror  for  signs  of  wear 
and  tear  on  her  ancient,  twenty-year-old 
countenance. 

As  for  Jack,  after  his  first  date  with 
Barbara,   he  decided   to  spend  the  week- 


Full-size  portrait  in  full  color: 

STEVE  ALLEN  and 
JAYNE  MEADOWS 

Inside:  The  tender  story  of  their 

star-kissed  marriage 

• 

Just  one  of  many  exclusive  features 

and  photos  of  all  your  favorites  in 

November 
TV  RADIO  MIRROR 

at  your  favorite  newsstand  October  3 


end  at  home,  in  preference  to  returning 
to  the  apartment  he  shared  with  two 
fraternity  brothers  near  S.C.  Next  morn- 
ing, he  told  his  parents,  "I  met  a  very 
interesting  girl  last  night." 

This  mild  statement  elicited  more  re- 
sponse than  all  Jack's  years  of  announcing 
ebulliently  that  he  was  balanced  on  the 
brink  of  marriage.  The  senior  Linkletters 
exchanged  glances  and  Art  asked,  "In- 
teresting in  what  way?" 

Jack  tried  to  particularize.  Barbara  was 
quiet  but,  when  she  had  something  to  say, 
she  spoke  up  briefly,  concisely,  and  with 
humor.  She  was  part-paying  her  own 
way  through  college  by  driving  a  school 
bus  and  by  teaching  dancing.  She  was  a 
Physical  Education  major  and  had  already 
arranged  to  serve  as  counselor  at  a  girls' 
camp  the  following  summer,  after  gradua- 
tion, and  she  was  going  to  start  her  teach- 
ing career  the  succeeding  fall. 

This  description  was  so  thoughtful  and  so 
far  afield  from  Jack's  usual  recommenda- 
tions that  his  mother  inquired,  "How 
come  no  rhapsodies  over  eyes,  hair,  teeth, 
hands,  and  so  forth?  Is  this  a  girl  who 
must  be  appreciated  for  inner  worth?" 

"Who  said  Barbara  isn't  beautiful?"  was 
the  astonished  reply.     "Of  course,   she  is. 


Dark  brown  hair,  worn  short.  Wide  blue 
eyes.  A  cute  little  heart-shaped  face.  But 
the  fact  that  she  is  so  pretty  is  just  an 
added  attraction.  The  first  thing  you  be- 
gin to  realize  about  her  is  that  she  has 
quality.  Dignity.  A  sort  of  womanly  pride 
and  sweetness.  I  think  you'll  like  her." 

Swallowing  hard,  Father  Linkletter  sug- 
gested that  he  and  Lois  join  Jack  and 
Barbara  for  an  evening  at  The  Grove  the 
following  weekend.  Standard  procedure, 
of  course,  so  Jack  accepted  it  happily,  pre- 
tending that  he  had  not  noticed  the 
slightly  greater-than-usual  emphasis 
placed  upon  the  meeting. 

Came  the  great  night,  bringing  together 
three  separate  attitudes  toward  the  same 
event.  Jack  thought,  Everything  will  work 
out  great.  I  know  the  values  that  are  im- 
portant to  the  folks.  I  have  confidence  in 
Barbara. 

Barbara,  knowing  that  a  double  date 
with  the  Linkletters  was  standard  operat- 
ing procedure,  thought  it  would  be  an 
interesting  evening — if  she  could  control 
the  tendency  of  her  hands  to  tremble. 

Art  and  Lois  told  one  another:  This 
seems  to  be  somewhat  different  from  the 
roller-coaster  romances  of  the  past.  We 
shall  see  what  we  shall  see.  What  they 
saw  was  a  remarkably  pretty  girl,  poised, 
serene,  and — a  vital  but  often  underrated 
quality — sensible.  Only  her  toying  with 
an  earring  (the  clasp,  she  explained,  was 
too  tight)   betrayed  a  minor  nervousness. 

She  danced  with  Art  and  answered  his 
questions  frankly  and  without  affectation. 
She  said  she  loved  children,  hoped  some- 
day to  have  a  large  family  of  her  own. 
Her  father  was  not  living,  but  she  and 
her  younger  sister  were  fortunate  in  hav- 
ing one  of  the  world's  unheralded  saints 
as  a  mother.  Yes,  she  knew  she  would 
enjoy  teaching;  she  felt  she  had  a  knack, 
and  one  should  make  use  of  whatever  gifts 
were  accorded  one.  No,  she  had  never 
considered  a  show-business  career;  she 
felt  she  had  no  talent  in  that  field,  but  she 
was  happy  to  be  a  small  part  of  that 
largest  ingredient  essential  to  all  show- 
business  success — an  appreciative  audience. 

Art  was  impressed.  "She  has  substance,' 
he  told  Lois.  "She  just  might  be  the  girl 
for  Jack.  She'd  fit  into  the  family  com- 
fortably, I  think."  They  took  Barbara  to 
Alisal  on  a  weekend  outing.  Barbara 
rode  a  horse  for  the  first  time  and  "wound 
up  as  stiff  as  an  ambassador's  shirt  at  s 
coronation."  An  excellent  swimmer,  how- 
ever, she  quickly  learned  aqua-lung  diving 
with  Jack,  and  joined  the  family  on  seaside 
expeditions.  The  "fit"  was  comfortable  in- 
deed. 

Even  so,  when  Jack  began  to  talk  oi 
immediate  marriage,  father  and  son 
went  into  conference.  First,  there  was  that 
question  of  age.  "Nineteen  is  awfully 
young,"  Art  said,  inwardly  smiling  over 
his  use  of  the  world's  oldest-known 
parental  objection  to  the  mating  of  the 
younger  generation. 

"You  were  twenty  when  you  married,' 
Jack  countered  with  a  grin. 

"If  Lois  and  I  had  known  before  mar- 
riage what  we  know  now,  we  woulc* 
have  panicked  before  we  reached  the 
altar,"  Art  admitted. 

"Wouldn't  everybody?"  asked  Jack  per 
ceptively. 

Well,  what's  a  father  to  say? 

They  discussed  all  the  usual  problems 
summoned  by  a  serious  approach  to  mar- 
riage: Income  to  support  a  home?  No 
real  problem,  as  Jack  has  been  working, 
off  and  on,  since  he  was  ten  and  the 
income  had  been  invested  so  wisely  that 

it  brings  in  regular  dividends  nowadays 

Military  service?  Jack  is  a  member  oi 
the  Naval  R.O.T.C.  at  U.S.C;   chances  of 


his  being  called  to  active  duty  are  re- 
mote, except  in  case  of  war.  .  .  .  Religious 
considerations?  Both  Jack  and  Barbara 
are  Protestant.  .  .  .  Background?  Both 
were  born  in  Southern  California  and 
have  grown  up  in  the  midst  of  the  same 
general  geographical  and  cultural  influ- 
ences. .  .  .  Children?  Both  think  in  terms 
of  a  family  of  at  least  four,  possibly  more. 

Obviously,  there  were  none  of  the  cele- 
brated major  conflicts  between  them.  "But 
don't  forget  that,  in  marriage,  it  is  often 
the  minor  and  the  unpredictable  that  cause 
difficulty,"  Art  said  wisely.  "The  mere 
friction  of  daily  living  scrapes  up  all 
sorts  of  controversy.  I'd  appreciate  it  if 
you  two  kids  would  postpone  marriage 
for  at  least  a  year,  get  to  know  one  an- 
other through  the  association  of  a  long 
engagement.   How   about   it?" 

It  seemed  fair.  Today's  young  lovers 
know  that  a  love  unable  to  endure  the 
simple  test  of  time  is  no  love  at  all. 

Inevitably,  problems — as  they  have 
since  time  began — began  to  present  them- 
selves to  the  two  people  planning  a  life 
together.  Jack  is  a  clock  worshipper;  he 
has  had  to  be,  because  of  the  facts  of  his 
home  environment.  Regard  for  the  split- 
second  becomes  a  hard-and-fast  rule 
for  the  family  of  those  working  in  radio 
or  television.  If  there  is  anything  that 
sets  Jack's  teeth  on  edge,  it  is  perennial 
tardiness.  Unfortunately,  Barbara  had 
fallen  into  the  habit  of  many  a  member 
of  her  sex:  She  was  always  a  little  late. 

Perhaps  she  didn't  start  early  enough; 
perhaps  she  had  to  take  a  last-minute 
phone  call;  perhaps  her  delay  was  caused 
by  traffic — she  usually  had  an  excuse.  But 
excuses  failed  to  mollify  Jack  when  he 
had  agreed  to  pick  up  Barbara  at  a  cer- 
tain time  and  place  and  she  arrived  thirty 
minutes   late.   Unwilling   to    shout   at   the 


soft-eyed,  contrite  creature  who  had  set 
his  blood  a-boiling,  Jack  would  sulk. 

In  her  turn,  Barbara  objected  to  sulk- 
ing. Personally,  she  is  inclined  to  say  what 
she  thinks,  get  it  out  of  her  system,  and 
forget  it.  When  Jack  sulked,  Barbara 
would  pretend  to  ignore  his  silence  and 
his  thunderous  face.  She  would  hum.  She 
would  gnaw  her  lower  lip,  clear  her  throat, 
play  with  a  paper  clip  or  an  earring. 

1  hinking  of  ways  in  which  to  defend 
herself  from  Jack's  dark  mood,  Barbara 
would  review  some  of  her  own  complaints: 
Sometimes  Jack  was  careless  with  valu- 
ables. For  his  birthday,  she  had  given  him 
a  valuable  billfold,  which  he  had  left — 
unthinkingly — on  the  seat  of  his  car  in 
a  parking  lot.  Naturally,  it  was  stolen. 
Also  naturally,  he  was  heartsick.  But 
Barbara  had  said  candidly  that  it  was  a 
wonder  Jack  didn't  suffer  constant  losses 
as  a  result  of  his  irresponsibility.  The 
criticism  infuriated  Jack.  For  nineteen 
years  he  had  managed  to  get  by  without 
the  guidance  of  Miss  Hughes,  so  what  made 
her  think.  .  .  . 

Marriages,  to  say  nothing  of  engage- 
ments, have  been  wrecked  by  less. 

Jack  talked  to  his  father  about  the 
slightly  foolish  but  oft-repeated  storms. 
As  usual,  Art  came  up  with  a  suggestion. 
At  U.S.C.,  he  reminded  Jack,  there  was  a 
wise  and  understanding  man  at  the  head 
of  the  Education  for  Marriage  Department. 
Dr.  James  A.  Peterson.  Why  not  enroll  in 
some  of  his  classes?  Barbara  agreed  to 
the  plan,  so  the  battling  beloveds  attended 
a  three-hour  evening  class  once  a  week, 
for  an  entire  semester,  and  consulted  a 
marriage  counselor  as  well. 

Barbara  learned  to  understand  and  to 
appreciate  Jack's  attitude  toward  punc- 
tuality, and  to  be  on  time   (well,  on  most 


occasions) .  Jack  learned  to  speak  up  when 
he  was  annoyed,  but  to  be  objective  about 
it  and  courteous  in  explaining  his  com- 
plaint. ("Look,  honey,  I  love  you  and  I'm 
determined  to  take  care  of  you.  You've  pro- 
crastinated long  enough  about  that  tooth. 
I've  made  an  appointment  with  my  dentist 
for  three  on  Wednesday  afternoon;  I'll 
drive  you  and  pick  you  up  at  four.") 

He  learned  to  hang  up  coats,  fold  up 
sweaters,  take  care  of  valuables.  ("How 
about  me,  Barbara?  I  haven't  mislaid  or 
lost  anything  for  over  a  month!")  Barbara 
learned  to  channel  her  energy  into  some 
such  useful  occupation  as  knitting  when 
she  was  tempted  to  release  tensions  in 
some  meaningless  activity. 

Of  course,  they  made  family  jokes  of 
their  discoveries:  "Look  out  for  Barbara 
when  she  starts  to  hum;  she  hums  for  the 
same  reason  a  pup  growls."  And,  "Jack 
will  never  allow  me  to  have  a  sun-dial 
in  our  garden.  It  would  be  an  hour  slow 
during  the  daylight-saving  months,  and 
that  would  drive  him  wild." 

"The  important  thing  isn't  your  having 
solved  these  minor  problems,"  Art  told 
the  teasing  sweethearts.  "It's  that  you've 
learned  how  to  go  about  tackling  the 
threats  to  happiness  in  marriage." 

Jack  and  Barbara  plan  to  be  married 
on  December  21,  1957.  After  a  two-week 
honeymoon,  Barbara  will  return  to  her 
school,  and  Jack  will  continue  his  classes 
at  U.S.C. — for  two  more  years.  Then  he 
hopes  to  step  into  a  show  of  his  own. 

Next  thing  you  know,  Art  Linkletter 
will  be  interviewing  his  own  grandchil- 
dren on  House  Party — and  serving  as 
guide  to  a  second  generation  with  the 
some  success  he  is  enjoying  the  first  time 
around.  People  are  funny,  but  children  are 
wonderful.  Especially  when  they're  such 
a  credit  to  a  devoted  dad. 


NONA/!     EASIER.    SURER    PROTECTION 
FOR    YOUR     MOST    INTIMATE    MARRIAGE    PROBLEM 

Tested  by  doctors  .  .  .  proved  in  hospital  clinics 


I 


iar  \ 


1.  Antiseptic  ^Protective,  germicidal  action) 
Norforms  -are  safer  and  surer  than  ever!  A 
highly  perfected  neur  formula  releases  anti- 
septic arid  germicidal  ingredients  right  in 
the  vaginal  tract.  The  exclusive  new  base 
melts  at  body  temperature,  forming  a  pow- 
erful protective  film  that  permits  long- 
lasting  action.  Will  not  harm  delicate  tissues. 

2.  Deodorant  {Protection  from  odor)  Nor- 
forms were  tested  in  a  hospital  clinic  and 
found  to  be  more  effective  than  anything 


it  had  ever  used.  Norforms  are  deodorant— 
they  eliminate  (rather  than  cover  up)  embar- 
rassing odors,  yet  have  no  "medicine"  or 
"disinfectant"  odor  themselves. 

3.  Convenient  (So  easy  to  use)  Norforms 
are  small  vaginal  suppositories,  so  easy  and 
convenient  to  use.  Just  insert — no  appara- 
tus, mixing  or  measuring.  They're  grease- 
less  and  they  keep  in  any  climate.  Your 
druggist  has  them  in  boxes  of  12  and  24. 
Also  available  in  Canada. 


Tested  by  doctors   •  Trusted  by  women 

FREE  informative   Norforms  booklet 

Mail  coupon  to:  Dept.  RT-710,  Norwich 
Pharmacal  Co.,  Norwich,  N.  Y.  Send 
Norforms  booklet,  in  a  plain  envelope. 


Name. 


City 


71 


The  Best  I  Can  Be 


(Continued  jrom  -page  34) 
looking  directly  at  you  when  you  talk, 
a  classic  nose  and  mouth,  a  slim  and 
stunning  five  feet,  four  inches  shaped  to 
flatter  the  most  fetching  fashions  .  .  .  you 
wonder  why  a  girl  such  as  this  need  be 
quite  so  uncompromising  about  the  things 
that  would  come  her  way  easily.  The  best 
roles.  Romance.  Glamour.  Life  served 
up  on  a  silver  platter. 

She  explains  her  point  of  view:  "I  must 
do  something  completely,  or  not  begin  it. 
With  all  my  heart,  or  not  at  all.  I  have 
a  sense  of  truth  about  my  work,  as  I  hope 
I  have  about  everything  important  in  my 
life.  Don't  think  for  one  moment  that  I 
believe  my  ideas  should  apply  to  anyone 
else.  Others  have  their  own  ideas,  make 
their  own  compromises,  and  are  happy 
that  way.  Only — for  me — it  must  be  like 
this." 

She  has  been  in  one  motion  picture,  the 
feminine  lead  with  Tony  Perkins  and  Karl 
Maiden  in  the  story  of  Jim  Piersall,  "Fear 
Strikes  Out,"  playing  Jim's  wife,  Mary. 
Hollywood  has  been  dangling  attractive 
contracts  in  tempting  array  before  her, 
but  so  far  she  has  fought  to  remain  free 
of  long  commitments,  free  to  choose  her 
parts,  to  keep  on  in  television,  which  she 
loves,  and  to  think  ahead  to  stage  roles, 
possibly  in  musicals. 

"If  my  insistence  on  doing  what  seems 
right  for  me  should  keep  me  from  certain 
roles  in  television,  in  movies  or  on  the 
stage,"  says  Norma,  "it  will  have  to  be 
that  way.  But  I  don't  believe  our  busi- 
ness is  like  that.  There  is  room  for  glam- 
orous, enigmatic  movie  stars — I  admire 
them — but  I  don't  want  to  be  one.  Recog- 
nition is  important  to  me,  of  course.  An 
actress  must  have  it — how  else  would  she 
know  she  is  reaching  people? — but  the 
first  recognition  I  want  is  for  my  work. 
I  certainly  do  not  want  to  be  built  up  as 
a  personality,  always  perfectly  groomed, 
beautifully  made-up,  gorgeously  dressed — 
much  as  I  would  love  this  from  a  woman's 
point  of  view.  My  aim  is  to  be  a  good 
actress,  the  best  I  can  be,  and  to  look  like 
the  woman  I  am  portraying." 

In  the  television  part  of  Susan  Ames  in 
The  Secret  Storm,  Norma  is  a  mother- 
less girl  in  her  early  twenties  who  has 
tried  to  take  over  as  homemaker  for  her 
father,  Peter  Ames,  and  for  a  younger 
brother  and  sister.  "Susan,"  she  points 
out,  "is  the  kind  of  girl  of  whom  any 
parent  would  be  proud.  Uncomplicated, 
not  the  least  bit  neurotic,  in  spite  of  the 
many  problems  she  has  to  face.  Difficult 
problems  for  so  young  and  sympathetic  a 
girl.  Because  she  is  sensitive  and  gen- 
erous, so  open  and  responsive  to  others, 
she  is  always  in  danger  of  being  hurt;  not 
mature  enough,  not  experienced  enough, 
to  cope  with  some  of  the  people  who  come 
into  her  life.  She  has  been  dazzled  by 
Alan  Dunbar,  an  engaging  young  man 
whose  motives  and  thinking  are  very  dif- 
ferent from  her  own,  and  this  has  brought 
about  situations  and  emotions  she  is  not 
equipped  to  handle. 

"I   think   I   am   more    experienced   than 

Susan.     I  have   been   on   my   own   as   an 

actress,  away  from  my  home  and  parents," 

Norma    explains,    "but    I    understand    her 

and   like  her.     I  think   I  understand   her 

feelings  about  Alan  .  .  .  although  the  right 

moment  has  not  yet  come  for  me  to  fall 

in  love.    Of  course,  that  could  change  any 

T    day,  and  all  my  own  theories  about  the 

v    kind  of  man  I  will  love  and  marry  could 

R    be  swept  away!" 

At  the  moment,  the  theories  add  up 
about  like  this:  She  would  like  to  be  even 
more  firmly   established    as  an  actress,  is 


not  certain  yet  how  much  of  her  career 
she  would  be  willing  to  give  up.  She 
meets  actors  mostly,  dates  actors  mostly, 
but  believes  it  would  be  better  for  her  to 
marry  someone  connected  with  the  pro- 
fession in  some  other  way  than  acting. 
Someone  who  knows  enough  about  her 
kind  of  work  to  speak  her  language,  to 
understand  the  demands  on  her  time  and 
be  patient  with  them,  and  to  understand 
what  she  is  trying  to  do  with  her  talent. 

When  Norma  is  most  serious  about  this 
subject  of  love  and  marriage,  she  sud- 
denly breaks  into  a  laugh,  says:  "Things 
are  not  like  that  yet.  I  have  known  boys 
I  liked  very  much,  but  I  haven't  been 
really  in  love.  I  know  all  these  things 
would  depend  upon  how  flexible  we  both 
are.  A  man  has  to  find  a  woman  who 
first  appeals  to  him  as  a  woman,  not  as 
an  actress.  And  a  woman  has  to  find  a  man 
who  is,  first,  the  man  she  loves.  I  don't 
suppose  anything  else  would  matter  too 
much,  if  that  happens." 

In  Hollywood,  she  dated  Tony  Perkins, 
was  photographed  with  him  wherever  they 
went,  written  up  in  the  columns:  "The 
whole  idea  of  being  in  Hollywood,  the 
whole  experience,  was  breath-taking. 
Something  happened  every  day  at  the 
studio — everyone  was  so  kind — it  all  meant 
such  a  lot  to  me.  And  Tony  was  so  won- 
derful." 

She  shares  a  small  apartment  with  an 
actress  friend — and  seven  cats.  She  kept 
one  cat  for  a  woman  who  belongs  to  The 
Gotham  Cat  Club,  and,  as  a  result  of  this 
foster-mothering,  was  asked  by  the  Club 
to  care  for  two  others,  pets  of  an  elderly 
woman  who  was  being  sent  to  the  hospital. 
Her  heart  melted  when  she  heard  they  had 
no  other  home.  So,  rather  reluctantly, 
she  took  on  the  responsibility  of  the  two 
animals — and  suddenly,  last  Easter  Sun- 
day, found  herself  presented  with  a  litter 
of  five  kittens. 

Ask  her  if  they  are  "alley  cats,"  and  her 
eyes  darken  with  belligerence.  "They're 
beautiful  hodgepodges,"  she  corrects  you. 
"Beautifully  marked,  each  different  from 
the  others  in  personality.  People  come  to 
visit,  push  a  cat  away,  tell  me  how  much 
they  dislike  having  even  one  cat  around, 
and  end  up  by  cuddling  at  least  one  in 
their  lap,  stroking  a  silky  ear.  They  al- 
ways say  the  same  thing:  'This  is  the  first 
cat  I  ever  liked.'     It  happens  regularly." 

One  kitten  with  a  lovely,  long  slim 
neck  is  named  Audrey,  for  La  Hepburn. 
The  four  others,  because  of  their  Easter 
arrival,  are  jointly  named  "Allelujah" — 
Al,  Le,  Lou  and  Yah.  Pop's  name  is 
Farouk  and  Mom's  is  Mama. 

Norma's  family  name  is  Veney,  and  her 
parents  are  Margaret  and  Carl.  Her  father 
is  of  Swiss  origin,  associated  with  the 
textile  business.  The  name  Veney  seemed 
difficult  to  use  professionally,  hard  to  re- 
member, so  Norma  took  the  name  of 
Moore,  but  she  is  proud  of  her  parents, 
as  they  are  of  her,  and  didn't  like  making 
the  change.  She  is  an  only  child. 

"My  parents  are  non-professionals,"  she 
says,  "but  they  had  faith  in  me  and  en- 
couraged me.  Had  I  wanted  to  be  a  nurse, 
or  a  stenographer,  or  do  any  other  work, 
they  would  have  felt  the  same  way,  as 
long  as  I  did  a  good  job  and  was  happy 
in  it.  They  are  really  extraordinary.  I 
believe  they  are  proud  of  me  now — not 
because  I  am  an  actress  instead  of  some- 
thing else — but  because,  in  a  highly  com- 
petitive and  difficult  business,  I  have  made 
a  small  place  for  myself. 

"I  have  had  so  much  encouragement  and 
help,  from  many  people.  I  doubt  that  Karl 
Maiden,    who   was   in   'Fear   Strikes   Out,' 


has  any  idea  to  this  day  how  much  he 
helped  me  and  what  a  good  friend  he  was. 
He  talked  to  me  about  the  picture  business, 
explained  things  I  didn't  understand,  gave 
me  pointers  on  how  to  handle  myself  and 
the  new  situations  in  my  life  in  Holly- 
wood. Of  course,  there  was  Tony  also. 
And  the  people  I  know  in  New  York. 
The  producers  and  directors  who  have 
helped  me,  my  fellow  actors.  Peter  Hobbs, 
who  plays  my  father  in  The  Secret  Storm. 
Haila  Stoddard,  who  plays  my  Aunt 
Pauline.  I  admire  her  so,  have  learned 
from  listening  to  her,  watching  her  work. 
In  the  show,  I  am  supposed  to  dislike  her 
thoroughly,  and  this  isn't  easy,  because 
in  reality  I  like  everything  about  her. 
Her  lovely  face,  and  her  own  ideas  and 
ideals  about  her  work,  and  the  sense  of 
truth  she  brings  to  it." 

How  Norma  became  an  actress  is  all 
tied  up  with  this  strong  feeling  she  her- 
self has  about  "truth."  She  never  decided 
to  be  an  actress,  but  rather  decided  to  go 
on  being  what  she  had  been  as  far  back 
as  she  could  remember:  "There  is  an 
important  distinction  here.  It  brings  us 
into  the  whole  idea  of  what  makes  people 
want  to  act.  I  decided,  at  fourteen,  to  act 
professionally,  but  that  was  the  only 
change.  I  had  been  amusing  myself,  and 
my  friends  and  schoolmates,  from  the 
time  I  could  talk.  It  was  my  natural  ex- 
pression and  I  don't  know  why  it  should 
have  been,  or  don't  care  to  know.  It  was 
just  there." 

She  was  acting  all  during  the  years  she 
went  to  the  Poplar  Street  grade  school  in 
Hazelton,  Pennsylvania — she  was  born  in 
Chambersburg — and  she  acted  when  she 
went  to  high  school  in  Greensboro,  North 
Carolina,  from  which  she  was  graduated 
in  1952.  She  believes  now  that  her  first 
leading  role,  at  fourteen,  in  a  high-school 
play,  "Mother  Is  a  Freshman,"  was  a  turn- 
ing point,  because  it  marked  her  decision 
to  keep  on  acting  and  make  it  a  profes- 
sion. The  second  turning  point  was  at  the 
end  of  her  first  college  term,  at  the  Wom- 
en's College  of  the  University  of  North 
Carolina,  at  Greensboro.  A  dramatics 
teacher  told  her  about  a  job  at  Flat  Rock, 
apprenticing  in  a  summer  stock  company 
called  the  Vagabond  Players.  She  got  the 
job,  worked  with  the  Players  two  seasons, 
did  all  the  things  apprentices  do — worked 
on  props  and  lights  and  sets,  painted 
ushered — as  well  as  acted. 

The  director  persuaded  Norma  that  she 
should  go  on  with  acting,  rather  than 
continue  college,  and  he  gave  her  a 
letter  of  introduction  to  Paul  Morrison,  set 
designer  at  the  Neighborhood  Playhouse 
in  New  York.  Morrison  in  turn  introduced 
her  to  Sanford  Meisner,  director  at  the 
Playhouse,  who  accepted  her  into  the 
highly  selective  circle  of  young  players, 
where  she  worked  for  two  years.  Then 
came  her  first  big  professional  break,  as 
understudy  to  Mary  Martin's  daughter, 
Heller  Halliday,  in  the  Theater  Guild's 
Salute  to  France  production  of  "The  Skin 
of  Our  Teeth."  She  went  to  Paris  with  the 
company — where  the  play  was  presented 
for  two  weeks  at  the  International  Drama 
Festival — and,  besides  being  understudy, 
had  five  small  roles  of  her  own. 

Staying  over  a  third  week,  to  visit 
Switzerland  and  her  father's  relatives,  was 
one  of  the  biggest  thrills  of  her  life:  "It 
had  been  forty  years  since  an  aunt  and 
uncle  had  seen  any  member  of  the  family 
and  they  were  as  thrilled  as  I  was.  They 
lived  in  Ziig,  right  outside  Zurich,  and  I 
fell  in  love  with  them,  with  the  town,  and 
with   all  of   Switzerland." 

She  played  Broadway  in  "The  Skin  of 


,    1 


Our  Teeth,"  two  weeks  in  Chicago  and 
two  in  Washington,  D.C.  For  the  television 
spectacular  of  the  show,  she  acted  as  Mary 
Martin's  stand-in — on  only  a  day's  notice, 
so  it  was  lucky  she  knew  Mary's  part 
thoroughly.  It  was  a  complete  run-through 
for  the  benefit  of  cameramen  and  lighting 
men,  for  producers  and  director,  and  had 
to  be  performed  exactly  as  if  it  were  being 
broadcast  to  an  audience.  In  the  actual 
broadcast,  she  appeared  only  in  her  own 
little  group  of  parts,  but  the  whole  ex- 
perience was  a  great  thrill. 

Her  eyes  widen  with  excitement  when 
she  talks  about  the  unexpected  way  she 
got  the  part  in  "Fear  Strikes  Out."  Para- 
mount wanted  someone  outside  the  circle 
of  young  faces  familiar  to  movie-goers. 
An  "unknown"  face,  not  associated  with 
previous  pictures.  Norma's  was  far  from 
unknown  in  television.  She  had  been  on 
many  important  dramatic  programs.  But 
she  wasn't  a  motion-picture  face. 

"Many,  many  girls — hundreds  of  them, 
I  suppose — were  auditioned,"  she  recalls. 
"I  was  simply  one  of  them.  After  my 
interview  with  Bob  Mulligan,  the  director, 
I  happened  to  get  a  call  to  do  something 
else.  Thinking  the  Paramount  job  was  just 
another  one  of  those  times  when  they 
talked  about  casting  from  New  York  and 
ended  by  taking  some  well-known  Holly- 
wood actress,  I  signed  a  contract  with  the 
man  I  saw  second.  I  no  sooner  got  home 
that  I  found  I  had  a  message  from  Para- 
mount. As  I  walked  in  the  door  of  their 
office,  I  was  told  they  were  going  to  fly 
me  out  to  the  West  Coast  immediately  for 
a  screen  test.  I  still  didn't  take  it  too 
seriously — except  the  trip  itself,  since  I 
had  never  been  farther  west  than  Chicago." 

She  flew  out  on  the  following  Sunday 
morning,    arrived    in    Hollywood    Sunday 


night,  rehearsed  Monday,  made  the  test 
Tuesday,  left  immediately  after,  and  was 
back  in  New  York  Wednesday.  Thursday 
night  she  got  a  telephone  call.  They  want- 
ed her  for  the  part. 

It  had  never  occurred  to  Norma  that, 
with  proper  notice  to  the  people  with 
whom  she  had  signed  a  contract,  she 
could  not  be  released.  They  wanted  her 
badly,  weren't  thinking  of  her  good 
fortune  in  being  given  such  a  good  part 
in  an  important  movie.  They  were  busi- 
nessmen, she  had  put  her  signature  to  a 
contract.  She  was  an  actress,  young  enough 
to  be  terribly  indignant  that  anyone  would 
try  to  thwart  her  progress.  Finally,  they 
came  to  an  understanding  that  cost  her 
some  money  and  injured  feelings.  But 
ten  days  later,  she  was  off  to  Hollywood. 

After  it  was  finished,  a  photographer 
friend  of  hers  saw  it  and  was  most  un- 
happy about  the  way  she  looked.  "You 
weren't  beautiful,"  he  said.  "You  didn't 
use  enough  make-up.  You  weren't  photo- 
graphed to  show  how  you  really  are.  How 
could  you  let  them  do  it  to  you?" 

Here,  again  was  this  question  of  integ- 
rity, of  truth,  of  reality.  Norma  had  to 
explain  that  she  had  used  a  minimum  of 
make-up  because  this  was  no  fiction  or 
fantasy,  but  really  a  documentary-type  of 
film,  about  real  people.  About  a  real  wom- 
an she  was  playing,  a  woman  who  was 
worried,  and  frequently  unhappy,  and  un- 
concerned with  glamour.  That  the  won- 
derful part  of  this,  her  first  Hollywood 
experience,  was  having  producer  Alan  Pa- 
kula  and  director  Bob  Mulligan  see  the 
part  exactly  as  she  had  and  letting  her 
play  it  with  all  the  reality  that  was  in  her. 

The  day  she  auditioned  for  Susan  Ames, 
in  The  Secret  Storm,  was  exciting,  too. 
She  read  with  Peter  Hobbs,  says  he  was 
wonderful  to  her,  helped  her  do  the  best 


possible  job.  Now,  busy  as  she  is  in  a 
daytime  dramatic  serial,  she  is  still  study- 
ing drama  with  a  former  teacher  at  the 
Neighborhood  Playhouse,  Charles  Conrad, 
who  has  his  own  classes  now.  She  works 
at  singing  and  dancing,  hoping  some  day 
to  star  in  a  stage  musical.  "Dancing  is  like 
acting,  with  more  movement — perhaps  an 
extended  form  of  acting,  in  which  you 
must  learn  disciplines  and  techniques." 

Ohe  paints  (in  oils).  Something  else  she 
has  always  longed  to  do.  She  loves  to  be 
outdoors,  adored  California  for  its  sunshine 
and  open  spaces,  but  tries  to  get  in  some 
swimming  and  water-skiing  wherever  she 
is,  whenever  she  can  find  time.  Besides,  she 
wants  the  exercise,  for  her  passion  for 
truth  makes  her  admit  that  she  has  to  fight 
weight  a  little. 

"When  I  was  around  nine  years  old,  I 
began  to  read  romantic  tales  of  maidens 
who  fell  in  love  and  could  no  longer  eat, 
and  began  to  waste  away,  and  I  thought 
how  divine  that  must  be.  Alas,"  she  grins, 
"I'm  not  the  wasting-away  kind.  If  I 
splurge  on  food  one  day,  I  must  be  ter- 
ribly abstemious  the  rest  of  the  week,  so 
mostly  I  am  careful  every  day — knowing 
that,  for  any  picture  medium,  such  as 
television  or  movies,  I  should  be  even 
slimmer  than  ordinary." 

Right  now,  this  seems  about  the  only 
conflict  in  Norma  Moore's  life,  this  mat- 
ter of  loving  good  food  and  knowing  she 
dare  not  have  too  much  of  it.  Not  a  very 
important  conflict,  surely,  compared  with 
the  ones  she  has  made  for  herself — of 
knowing  what  she  wants  from  life,  from 
love,  from  work.  Of  clinging  to  some 
idealistic  yet  (she  believes)  realistic 
promises  she  made  to  herself  when,  at 
the  age  of  fourteen,  she  decided  to  go  on 
and  on  being  an  actress. 


BUSY  GALS  WHO  CANT 


TAKE  HOURS  TO  MAKE  UP 


Who  has  time  these  days  for  elaborate  facial  care?  The  people 
who  write  the  articles  seem  never  to  have  needed  to  keep  a  house, 
husband,  and  baby  happy  all  at  the  same  time!  That's  why 
young  marrieds  find  Magic  Touch  make-up  so  wonderfully-ideal. 

No  muss  or  fuss— no  time  to  apply  (with  fingertips,  in  seconds)— 
and  no  look  of  the  "siren"  ( how  many  sirens  change  diapers? ) . 
But  beauty,  yes!  For  this  lightly-lovely  make-up  hides 
blemishes,  smooths  color  tone  and  glorifies  complexion.  And  more, 
it  protects  the  skin  as  you  wear  it,  lubricates  with  its  creamy 
richness,  ends  need  for  elaborate  bedtime  creamings. 

Here's  the  casually  beautiful,  effortlessly-lovely  look  that 

goes  with  being  modern.  Magic  Touch  (such  a  perfect  name) 

at  all  variety  stores  and  better  drug 

stores— 6  shades,  45^  or  $1.00.  Made  ^^-frrpf--  ""—- 

for  people  like  you!  ...  by  Campana.  ^<7-~~«  -7<>Zuc& 


The  Make-Up  of  Young  Moderns 


?**: 


\ 


73 


74 


(Continued  from  page  54) 
had  come  close  to  the  depths  of  failure. 

About  the  dramatic  highlights  of  his  per- 
sonal life,  he  is  more  reticent.  New  to  the 
rarefied  atmosphere  of  TV  stardom,  where 
every  breath  a  man  draws  is  legitimate 
news,  he  opens  with  reluctance  the  chap- 
ters of  his  life — some  of  them  tragic,  all  of 
them  dramatic — preceding  the  present 
triumphant  one,  which  finds  him  a  gentle- 
man-rancher ensconced  in  a  magnificent 
adobe-block  house  on  a  bluff  over  the 
Pacific  above  Malibu. 

There's  a  year's  pressing,  highly  paid 
work  for  the  weekly  Perry  Mason  hour 
ahead  of  him,  and  the  incoming  mail  bas- 
ket is  crowded  with  offers  of  work  in 
films,  the  theater,  television,  radio — most 
of  which  he  must,  for  the  moment,  turn 
down.  "The  Mason  job,"  he  says,  "will 
mean  twelve  hours  of  work  a  day,  seven 
days  in  the  week.  As  the  star,  I  have  a 
tremendous  stake  in  the  success  of  the 
show;  it  has  to  have  number  one  priority." 

He  may  be  able  to  squeeze  in  the  Fort 
Laramie  radio  series  for  CBS,  in  which  he 
has  starred  so  successfully  in  the  past. 
Despite  the  fact  that,  to  many  of  his  view- 
ers, Raymond  Burr  will  be  a  "new"  face  on 
their  screens,  he  has  had  a  long  and  im- 
pressive career  as  an  actor.  And  has  sand- 
wiched jobs  in  between  incidents  of  a 
crisis-studded  personal  life  which  only  a 
man  of  his  physical  energy — and  enthusi- 
asm— could  have  survived. 

Raymond  was  born  in  New  Westmin- 
ster, British  Columbia,  the  first  child  of 
William  Johnston  Burr,  a  thriving  import- 
export  merchant,  and  Minerva  Smith  Burr, 
a  concert  pianist  of  repute,  but  he  was  to 
spend  less  than  a  year  in  the  peace  and 
security  of  a  stable  home  before  life  be- 
gan to  get  complicated. 

When  Raymond  was  just  a  year  old,  his 
parents  moved  to  the  Orient.  The  family 
were  never  in  any  one  place  for  long.  They 
hopped  from  Chefoo  to  Shanghai,  from 
Peiping  to  Hong  Kong,  and  back  again. 
Since  no  consistent  schooling  was  avail- 
able, Raymond — and  his  two  brothers  and 
young  sister — were  educated  by  tutors. 
When  Ray  was  eleven,  they  returned  to 
Canada. 

That  was  the  black  year  of  1929.  Sud- 
denly, after  affluence,  there  was  no  money. 
The  strain  of  events  produced  a  more  per- 
sonal tragedy.  William  and  Minerva  Burr 
were  divorced,  Ray's  mother  departing, 
with  her  four  young  children,  for  north- 
ern California. 

There  was  ultimately,  however,  a  happy 
ending:  The  elder  Burrs  were  re -married 
last  year — after  twenty-six  years  of  sep- 
aration. "They  both  realized  they  had 
been  very  foolish,"  Raymond  says.  "They 
live  very  modestly  now — my  father  works 
for  a  very  low  salary  in  a  hardware  store. 
But  they're  happy." 

These  later  years  have  provided  another 
happy  conclusion  to  a  tragic  experience  for 
Raymond's  mother.  "She  was  blind  for 
a  number  of  years,"  he  says,  "and  suffered 
an  agonizing  series  of  operations.  Now 
she  can  see,  enough  to  teach.  And  she  is  a 
magnificent  teacher,  both  of  the  piano  and 
the  pipe  organ." 

Upon  settling  in  California,  Mrs.  Burr 
enrolled  her  son  in  the  exclusive  San 
Rafael  Military  Academy.  Annapolis,  she 
hoped,  would  be  the  next  stop  for  Ray. 
But  soon  "no  money"  became  less  than 
no  money.  Ray  had  to  go  to  work. 

He  was  never  to  go  regularly  to  school 
again,  not  even  to  finish  high  school.  But, 
many  years  later,  after  successfully  pass- 
ing college  entrance  examinations  at  Long 
Beach  Junior  College,  he  proceeded  to 
plow  through  what  amounts  to  about  six 
years    of    college    education.      "I    have    a 


Paging  Perry  Mason 

degree  in  psychology  from  the  University 
of  California,"  he  says,  "and  a  degree  in 
English  Literature  from  McGill."  And  he 
has  taught,  in  the  theatrical  field,  "at  Am- 
herst, Columbia,  the  Pasadena  Playhouse." 
He  himself  has  never  had  one  hour  of 
formal  dramatic  training. 

That  necessary  first  job,  at  twelve,  was 
a  poser  for  young  Raymond  Burr.  He  had 
no  saleable  skills,  no  "pull"  anywhere. 
But  he  was  big  for  his  age,  and  brawny. 
He  lit  out  for  Roswell,  New  Mexico,  and 
hired  out  as  a  ranch  hand.  When  he  re- 
turned, in  two  years,  with  a  hunger  for 
a  more  cerebral  kind  of  life,  he  was  big- 


ger. And  brawnier.  Still  with  no  definite 
goal  in  mind,  he  began  drifting  from  job 
to  job.  Mostly  sales  jobs. 

Raymond  Burr  apparently  could  have 
been  a  very  rich  salesman.  But,  along 
about  here,  he  stumbled  onto  radio — and 
knew  definitely,  and  at  once,  what  he 
wanted  to  do  with  the  rest  of  his  life.  He 
wanted  to  be  an  actor. 

Since  his  dramatic  force  was  immediately 
apparent,  he  moved  quickly  from  radio  to 
the  legitimate  theater — first,  summer  stock, 
then  a  go  at  Broadway.  In  the  late  '30's, 
he  went  to  England  to  star  in  "Night  Must 
Fall,"   and   subsequently   toured   Australia 


1/oti 


e  FOR  YOUR  FAVORITES 


Each  year  TV  Radio  Mirror  polls  its  readers  for  their  favorite  programs 
and  performers.  This  year,  for  the  first  time,  the  polling  was  begun  in 
the  July  issue  and  continues  until  the  end  of  the  year.  Results  will  be 
tabulated  after  December  31,  and  award  winners  will  be  announced  in 
the  May  1958  issue.  So  vote  today.  Help  your  favorites  to  win  a  Gold  Medal. 


TV  STARS  and  PROGRAMS 

Male  Singer , 

Female  Singer   

Comedian     

Comedienne     

Dramatic   Actor    

Dramatic  Actress    

Daytime  Emcee   

Evening    Emcee    

Musical    Emcee    , 

Quizmaster     , 

Western    Star    

News  Commentator    

Sportscaster     

Best  New  Star 

Daytime   Drama    , 

Evening    Drama     

Daytime  Variety    

Evening    Variety    

Comedy  Program    

Music   Program    

Quiz   Program    

Women's    Program    

Children's    Program    

Mystery    or    Adventure     

Western  Program    

TV  Panel  Show    

Best  Program  on  Air    

Best  New  Program    

TV  Husband-and-Wife  Team. .  . . 


RADIO  STARS  and  PROGRAMS 

Male  Singer 

Female  Singer   

Comedian     

Comedienne     

Dramatic    Actor    

Dramatic  Actress    

Daytime   Emcee   

Evening    Emcee    

Musical    Emcee    

Quizmaster     

Western    Star    

News  Commentator   

Sportscaster     

Best  New  Star 

Daytime    Drama    

Evening    Drama     

Daytime  Variety    

Evening    Variety    

Comedy   Program    

Music   Program    , 

Quiz   Program    

Women's    Program    

Children's    Program    

Mystery    or    Adventure     

Western  Program 

Radio  Record  Program    

Best  Program  on  Air   

Best  New  Program    


Send  your  votes  to  TV  Radio  Mirror  Awards,  P.O.  Box 
No.  1767.  Grand  Central  Station.  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 


10-5 


and  then  New  Zealand  with  the  company. 

By  this  time,  Hollywood  had  pricked  up 
its  ears,  and  he  was  summoned  for  a  screen 
test.  But  he  became  seriously  ill.  "I  guess 
I'd  been  living  it  up  too  much,"  he  says. 
He  turned  his  back  on  Hollywood,  and 
joined  the  U.  S.  Forestry  Service — for 
whom,  for  two  years,  he  conducted  a 
weather  bureau  and  snow  survey  in  Ore- 
gon. They  were  lonely  years,  with  plenty 
of  time  for  contemplation.  He  recovered 
his  health.  He  took  up  writing  and,  much 
to  his  surprise,  sold  several  of  his  articles 
and  stories  to  magazines.  But  the  lure  of 
the  theater  was  still  dominant,  and  -he  re- 
turned to  the  stage,  appeared  in  a  New 
York  musical-comedy  hit,  "Crazy  With 
the  Heat" — and  "twelve  million  radio 
dramas." 

Once,  briefly,  he  was  an  explorer:  "I 
went  to  Yucatan  with  some  archaeologic- 
ally  minded  friends  of  mine.  One  day, 
I  fell  in  a  hole  and  accidentally  discovered 
some  ancient  Mayan  ruins." 

Archaeology  is  fascinating,  but  Raymond 
— with  responsibilities  for  many  people 
other  than  himself  (once  there,  were  eleven 
relatives  living  in  his  house) — had  to  get 
back  to  work. 

Once  again:  Hollywood  calling.  R.K.O. 
tested  him,  signed  him,  agreed  to  pay  him 
$450  a  week,  and  then — the  old  story  again 
— forgot  him.  Raymond  Burr  had  never 
been  so  rich,  nor  so  unhappy. 

Out  of  frustration,  he  ate — and  drank 
— until  his  heft  rose  to  a  dangerous  325 
pounds.  (Burr  is  a  great  cook  and  an  avid 
gourmet,  and  gaining  weight  is  easy  when 
he  lets  himself  go.)  Disgusted  with  Holly- 
wood, and  himself,  he  asked  for  and  re- 
ceived his  release  from  the  studio  and 
started  over  the  old  path — radio,  to  stage, 
back  to  movies. 

The  official  record  takes  up  after  the 
war.     ("I  did  a  stint  in  the  Navy  in  the 


Pacific")  On  January  14,  1947,  he  married 
an  actress,  Isabella  Ward.  "It  was  my 
second  marriage,"  he  says,  expressionless. 
"My  first  wife  went  down  in  the  same 
plane  with  Leslie  Howard.  Our  son,  just 
a  year  old  when  she  died,  died  three  and 
a  half  years  later  of  leukemia." 

About  his  more  recent  marriage,  he  is 
equally  taciturn.  "We  were  separated  after 
a  year,  divorced  in  Maryland  in  1952.  We 
had  no  children." 

Since  the  war  years,  Raymond  Burr  has 
worked  steadily  and  profitably — and  with 
the  character  actor's  usual  anonymity — 
in  films,  some  of  them  very  big:  "A  Place 
in  the  Sun,"  "Rear  Window,"  "Cry  in  the 
Night." 

And  he  has  given  more  time  and  energy 
than  any  other  performer  to  entertaining 
the  Armed  Forces  overseas.  At  one  time, 
he  spent  a  solid  six  months  with  a  troupe 
in  Korea — giving  up  about  $75,000  in  avail- 
able jobs  in  order  to  do  it. 

With  the  discipline  and  satisfaction  of 
work,  the  pounds  that  used  to  haunt  him 
melted  away,  until  Burr — today — has  a 
leading  man's  physiognomy  and  a  charac- 
ter actor's  skill  and  finesse. 

Erie  Stanley  Gardner  has  described 
Perry  Mason  like  this:  "Tall,  long-legged. 
Broad  powerful  shoulders.  Rugged  faced, 
clean-cut,  virile  features;  patient  eyes. 
Heavy,  level  eyebrows.  Well-shaped 
hands,  strong  fingers.  Hand  could  have  a 
grip  of  crushing  force  should  occasion  re- 
quire. Wavy  hair.  .  .  .  Fighter,  happy-go- 
lucky,  carefree,  two-fisted — a  free-lance 
paid  gladiator.     Creed — results." 

This  could  be  a  description  of  Raymond 
Burr  himself. 

At  the  top  of  the  heap,  at  last,  Raymond 
Burr  is  living  the  rich,  full  life  of  the 
man  "who  has  got  it  made,"  in  his  ram- 
bling ranch  house  over  the  sea.  He  loves 
it    there,    seldom    ventures    into    the    city 


except  to  work — that  means  frequently 
now,  of  course,  and  sometimes  he  has  to 
arise  at  2: 30  A.M.  to  make  the  hour's  drive 
into  the  studio  in  time  for  early  re- 
hearsals of  Perry  Mason.  (Barbara  Hale 
plays  Delia  Street  to  Raymond  Burr's 
Perry;  Bill  Hopper  is  Paul  Drake,  Mason's 
detective  ally.) 

Raymond's  house  is  dream  stuff.  From 
the  front  terrace,  stone  stairs — built,  stone 
by  stone,  by  Raymond  himself — lead  to  a 
luxuriant  grassy  slope  to  the  edge  of  the 
bluff  over  the  sea.  Old  trees  give  welcome 
shade.  New  flowers  bloom  in  profusion 
everywhere.  To  the  rear  of  the  house  is 
the  "working  area" — kennels  for  Ray's 
pure-blooded  Australian  Silky  dogs,  pens 
for  chickens,  ducks,  geese.  "We  don't 
eat  the  birds,  we're  too  fond  of  them,"  he 
says.   "Just  the   eggs." 

The  house  has  an  informal  but  beautiful 
living  room,  a  den,  several  sea-facing  bed- 
rooms. But  the  center  of  fife  is  the  big 
cheerful  kitchen.  "Come  on  into  the 
kitchen"  is  the  usual  greeting.  There,  with 
chairs  drawn  up  to  an  enormous  rough- 
hewn  table,  you  can  share  one  of  Ray's 
chilled,  expertly  mixed  gimlets  and  then 
choose    between    hot    and    cold    canapes. 

To  Raymond  Burr — who  has  been  all 
over  the  globe,  more  than  once — this  spot 
above  Malibu  is  the  loveliest  place  in  the 
world,  and  truly  his  "home"  base  from 
now  on. 

"I  don't  want  to  live  like  a  rich  man. 
Come  to  think  of  it,  I'm  not  a  rich  man. 
I've  made  a  lot  of  money  in  my  life,  but 
managed  to  give  it  all  away.  Big  money, 
for  me,"  he  adds  wryly,  "will  mean  only 
that  I  won't  leave  owing  anybody." 

If  Perry  Mason  catches  on — as  there  is 
every  reason  to  believe  that  it  will — Ray- 
mond Burr  will  keep  on  living  it  up 
on  his  beautiful  seaside  bluff,  the  country 
squire  at  home,  for  a  long,  long  time. 


Not  just  a  promise  —  Ct  QCWcAjCZ4/IC£&, / SOFT,  SMOOTH, 

[  1 1—1    iti i  HMIl  '  '    hlPlimiiniVlT  RADIANT  SKIN  IN  IF  DAYS 


or  it  costs  you  nothing/ 


Here's  your  chance  to  see  how  lovely  your  skin  can  be  when 
you  give  it  proper  care  .  .  .  that  means,  lather-massage  a 
full  minute  morning  and  night  with  Cuticura  Soap. 

Cuticura  Soap  does  such  wonderful  things  for  your  skin 
because  it  is:  One  of  the  mildest  of  all  leading  soaps. 
Uniquely  super  emollient  to  help  maintain  the  natural 
moisture  of  your  skin.  Mildly  medicated  for  extra  skin  care 
and  protection.  No  other  soap  contains  Cuticura's  remark- 
able skin  softening,  skin  smoothing  ingredients. 

For  problem  skin  — hateful  blackheads,  externally  caused 
pimples,  flaky  dryness -use  jade-clear  Cuticura  Ointment 
nightly  to  soften  and  gently  stimulate  as  it  relieves. 

See  exciting  new  softness,  smoothness,  radi- 
ance in  7  days— or  return  unused  portion  to 
Cuticura  for  a  full  refund. 

Send  10fi  (no  stamps)  to  cover  mailing 
for  travel  size  Cuticura  Soap  and  Squeeze 
Bottle  Shampoo.  Address  Cuticura, 
Dept.  TS-710,  Maiden  48,  Mass. 


uticura 

Wishing  won't  help  your  skin — Cuticura  will! 


70 


T*e  Nlode, 


m  Book  oi 


100 


»NFant  and 
rJJJVP  CARE 


224  pages 

fully  indexed 

written  by  three  doctors 

ANSWERS  THE  QUESTIONS 
MOTHERS  OFTEN  ASK 

ALLERGIES:  "My  little  girl  is  allergic  to  milk. 
Should   I   make  her  drink  it  anyway?" 

BED-WETTING:  "My  five-year-old  Tommy 
wets  his  bed  every  night.  Is  there  something 
I  can  do  to  help  him  stop  this?" 

CRYING:  "Should  I  let  my  baby  cry  or  should 
I   pick  him  up?" 

FEEDING:  "Now  that  Janey  is  two  months 
old,  when  can  I  start  giving  her  solid  -foods?" 

INOCULATIONS:  "What  diseases  do  I  have 
my  baby  inoculated  against,  and  when  should 
these   be   given?" 

SEX  EDUCATION:  "How  can  I  answer  my 
little  boy's  questions  about  sex?  He  seems  too 
young  to  be  told." 

TONSILS:  "My  husband  insists  that  Bobby's 
tonsils  be  taken  out.  He  says  all  children 
need  that  operation.    Do  they?" 

A   Handy,    Easy-to-Read   Guide    Book   for 
Mothers  and  Mothers-to-Be 

Here,  at  your  fingertips,  is  the  latest  informa- 
tion on  infant  and  child  care.  Authoritatively 
written,  and  alphabetically  arranged  for  easy 
reference,  THE  MODERN  BOOK  OF  INFANT 
AND  CHILD  CARE  makes  a  valuable  gift  for 
mothers-to-be — an  indispensable  guide  for 
every  modern  mother. 


Bartholomew  House,  Inc.,  Dept.  WG 1 057 
205  E.  42nd  St..  New  York  17.  N.  Y. 

Send  me  a  copy  of  "INFANT  AND  CHILD 
CARE."  I  enclose  □  $1.00  (paper  bound) 
□   $2.00  (hard   bound). 


76 


NAME. 


STREET. 


(Please  Print) 


CITY STATE. 


Adopted  Father 


(Continued   from    page    52) 
and    they    didn't    think    I    was    spending 
enough  time  on  the  project,  so  they  pitched 
in  to  help! 

"With  all  that  having  gone  on  before, 
you  can  understand  that  I  didn't  think 
too  seriously  of  Sherry's  build-up  after 
she'd  met  Monte.  Mother  was  taking 
Sherry  to  the  set  in  those  days — one  day 
I  let  Mother  stay  home,  and  I  took  Sherry. 
That's  when  I  first  met  Monte.  And,  as  is 
obvious  now,  Sherry  knew  what  she  was 
doing.  Monte  and  I  started  dating,  and 
within  a  few  months  we  were  married. 
With,  of  course,  Steve  Cochran  as  best 
man  and  Sherry  as  flower  girl." 

Before  that,  Monte's  suitability  as  step- 
father had  been  put  to  the  test,  one  fine 
Sunday  afternoon,  when  Gary  and  Sherry 
pulled  him  out  of  the  house  for  a  "walk 
to  the  corner"  to  buy  a  balloon.  Only  there 
was  no  balloon  man  at  the  corner,  nor  at 
any  of  the  corners  for  a  mile  down  the 
street — a  distance  they  conned  him  into 
trudging  in  search  of  the  elusive  balloon 
man.  Then  they  confessed  it  was  all  a 
plot  to  get  far  enough  away  from  home 
so  that  they  might  ride  the  bus  back.  He 
fixed  that  one  with  characteristic  firm- 
ness— suggesting  calmly  that,  since  they'd 
walked  there,  they  could  walk  back.  They 
did.  Monte  loved  walking;  the  children, 
somewhat  less  than  enthusiastic  about  it, 
learned  their  lesson. 

Still  another  test  came  shortly  after 
Rita  and  Monte  were  married.  Rita,  busy 
with  other  duties,  was  unable  to  accom- 
pany Sherry  to  the  studio,  so  Monte  was 
drafted  as  a  stand-in  for  "stage  mother." 
This  was  a  new  bit  for  him,  and  he  con- 
fesses he  was  plenty  nervous  as  they 
drove  onto  the  lot,  and  headed  for  the 
parking  area.  So  nervous,  in  fact,  that 
he  had  some  difficulty  getting  the  car 
parked  properly.  In  lining  it  up,  he 
bumped  into  the  curb  rather  sharply,  and 
he  and  Sherry  both  got  something  of  a 
jolt.  Momentarily  dropping  back  into  his 
uninhibited  bachelor  habits,  Monte  let  out 
a   couple   of  deeply   expressive   curses. 

Sherry,  her  pigtails  literally  stiffening 
at  the  sound  of  his  swearing,  sat  primly 
on  her  side  of  the  front  seat.  Looking 
straight  ahead  of  her,  she  remarked  in 
a  quiet  little  voice,  "Daddy,  if  you  must 
swear,  it's  all  right  if  you  do  it  while 
we're  alone.  But  please  don't  ever  do  it 
in  front  of  anyone.  They  might  not  think 
you're  a  proper  father." 

Monte  remembers  that,  at  the  moment, 
he  couldn't  decide  whether  to  howl  with 
laughter,  or  to  weep.  What  she  said  was 
so  true,  and  summed  up  so  thoroughly 
her  reactions  toward  him,  and  his  respon- 
sibilities toward  her.  And  yet  it  sounded 
so  incongruously  adult,  coming  from  this 
tiny,  owlish  girl. 

The  five  years  since  Rita  and  Monte 
have  been  married  have  been  happy, 
eventful,  fruitful  years.  They  bought  a 
lovely  little  home  in  the  Valley,  complete 
with  swimming  pool.  Located  in  North 
Hollywood,  in  the  San  Fernando  Valley, 
it  is  about  a  ten-minute  drive  from  Holly- 
wood over  the  pass  through  the  Holly- 
wood Hills.  Like  many  typically  Cali- 
fornia houses,  it  is  rustic  to  the  point  of 
picturesqueness . 

Sherry's  career  prospered,  and  Monte 
began  his  steady  climb  upward  in  the 
ranks  of  Hollywood  screen  writers.  He 
worked  for  a  year  or  so  at  Warner  Bros, 
studio,  where  he  turned  out,  not  only 
screen  plays,  but  also  a  number  of  epi- 
sodes for  the  Warner  Bros.  Presents  tele- 
vision series,  "Cheyenne"  and  "Conflict." 
It  was  there  that  he  established  the  prece- 
dent of  always  writing  into  his  TV  plays  a 
bit  part   for  himself — so   that   he   appears 


in  each  one  he  wrote,  as  a  sort  of  signa- 
ture or  trade-mark.  Monte  is  now  writing 
for  Universal-International  studios,  and 
will  sign  a  writer-director  contract  soon. 

While  the  professional-type  production 
was  prospering,  so  was  another  "produc- 
tion" at  home.  In  January,  1956,  Monte's 
and  Rita's  first  son,  Robert  John,  was 
born.  "The  fellows  at  the  studio  couldn't 
understand  why  I  could  get  so  excited 
over  this  baby,"  laughs  Monte.  "They 
knew  I  had  two  sons  and  a  daughter.  They 
figured,  by  now,  such  things  should  be 
pretty  routine  with  me.  It  was  a  little 
tough  explaining  that,  while  I  did  have 
three  children,  this  was  the  first  baby 
I'd  ever  been  around!" 

Sherry's  attitude  toward  her  new  baby 
brother  would  be  almost  comical,  if  it 
weren't  so  heartwarming.  Having  had 
three  before  him,  Rita  has  the  relaxed  at- 
titude which  comes  with  rearing  a  large 
family.  If  Robert  John  wants  to  crawl 
up  the  stairs,  for  instance — let  him  learn 
by  crawling  up  the  stairs,  Rita  philoso- 
phizes. But  not  Sherry — she  hovers.  "Be 
careful  or  you'll  fall  and  bump  yourself." 
she  clucks. 

"If  that  baby  gets  spoiled,  it  will  be  no 
fault  of  mine,"  Rita  vows.  "You'll  be  able 
to  trace  it  all  to  Sherry.  'Nasty  old  mother 
won't  give  you  a  bottle?'  Sherry  says. 
'Your  big  sister  will  take  care  of  you!' 
Wait  till  she's  had  three  of  her  own — I'll 
bet  she  won't  be  so  fussy  about  the  fourth 
one!" 

Probably  one  of  the  outstanding  things 
about  the  Pittman  household  is  that  you 
see  more  family  feeling  here  than  in  many 
a  home  where  the  father  has  always  been 
with  them.  The  Pittmans  really  do  things 
together.  Both  Monte  and  Rita,  though 
their  lives  have  been  linked  closely  to 
television  for  years,  believe  that  the  old- 
time,  creative  activities  should  be  part  of 
their  children's  growing  up,  too.  "We 
let  them  watch  a  few  shows  which  are 
their  favorites,"  Rita  explains,  "but  there's 
none  of  this  camping  in  front  of  the  set, 
hour  after  hour,  watching  just  anything 
which  happens  to  come  on." 

Instead,  the  Pittmans  make  up  family- 
participation  games  of  their  own.  At  first, 
these  started  out  to  be  story-writing  ses- 
sions. They'd  choose  an  object — say,  the 
front  door,  or  an  interesting  piece  of  bric- 
a-brac.  Each  of  them — Gary,  Sherry, 
Curtis,  Rita  and  Monte — would  write  a 
short-short  story  around  that  object.  Monte 
confesses  that  these  evenings  proved  more 
profitable  than  he  had  dreamed  they 
would.  The  family  hatched  several  plots 
which  he  subsequently  turned  into  screen- 
plays. Later,  the  Pittmans  turned  to 
making  up  crossword  puzzles.  "We  turned 
out  some  doozies  in  those  days,"  Rita  re- 
calls with  a  chuckle.  Currently,  their 
evenings  at  home  are  often  taken  up  with 
quiz  sessions,  right  in  line  with  the  national 
craze  for  such  programs.  Only  the  Pitt- 
mans keep  their  quiz  on  a  purely  personal 
basis.  "What  day,  month,  and  year  was 
Daddy  born,  and  where?"  is  the  panel 
stumper  Gary  turns  out.  Sherry  is  apt 
to  come  up  with  "What  did  we  give  Monte 
that  first  Christmas?" 

"On  the  surface,  it's  a  game,"  Rita  ex- 
plains. "But  we've  discovered  that  it's 
done  a  lot  for  us,  as  a  family — more  than 
most  games  do.  It's  amazing  what  strang- 
ers members  of  the  same  family  can  be  to 
each  other.  With  our  little  old  quiz  game, 
we  really  get  to  know  the  facts!" 

This  do-it-yourself  fun  spills  over  into 
the  gifts  the  Pittmans  give  each  other  for 
Christmas  and  birthdays.  Many  of  them 
are  home-made  and  singularly  appropriate 
for  the  recipient.  There  was  the  scrap- 
book  Monte  concocted  for  Sherry  several 


years 


years  ago.  Faced  with  a  pile  of  old  pub- 
licity photos,  which  it  seemed  a  shame 
to  consign  to  the  incinerator,  Monte  set 
to  work  with  scissors  and  pen.  The  scrap- 
book  is  a  series  of  cartoon-type  pasteups 
— poking  gentle  fun  at  Sherry,  other  mem- 
bers of  the  family,  their  friends,  and  the 
institution  of  stardom  itself. 

This  refusal  to  take  the  status  of  "movie 
star"  seriously  is  one  of  Sherry's  most 
charming  characteristics.  She's  never  af- 
fected the  off-screen  bearing  many  ac- 
tresses employ,  queening  it  up  in  real 
life.  Off  the  set,  she's  always  been  a  pretty 
average  little  girl,  just  as  nowadays  she's 
a  pretty  average  teenager. 

Happily  for  herself  and  Monte,  Sherry 
is  primarily  an  actress,  and  rarely  an 
"idea  woman."  In  other  words,  she  doesn't 
go  around  telling  Monte  just  what  sort 
of  a  scene,  or  what  type  of  a  play,  she 
would  like  him  to  write  for  her.  "I  know 
her  so  well  by  now,"  he  says,  "I'm  sure, 
while  I'm  writing,  that  she'll  be  able  to 
interpret  whatever  character  I'm  creating 
for  her — and  will  undoubtedly  make  it 
more  real,  and  believable,  than  I  ever 
could  on  paper. 

"There  was  a  good  example  of  this 
while  we  were  shooting  'Come  Next 
Spring.'  In  this,  you  may  remember, 
Sherry  plays  a  mute  child.  This  is  a  de- 
manding part,  even  for  an  adult  actress, 
but  this  girl  has  a  sensitivity  far  beyond 
her  years.  Of  course,  while  I  was  writing 
the  play,  I  kept  Sherry  in  mind.  And 
before  snooting  started,  Rita  and  Sherry 
and  I  would  have  long  talks  about  this 
little  mute  girl,  Annie.  What  sort  of  a 
little  girl  she  was,  the  kind  of  a  life  she'd 
lived,  the  way  she  felt  about  things.  So, 
when  Sherry  stepped  before  the  cameras, 
she  stopped  being  Sherry,  and  became 
Annie. 

"Actually,  this  threshing  out  a  charac- 
ter before  shooting  starts  on  a  picture  is 
one  of  the  reasons  Sherry  always  does 
such  an  excellent  job.  This  is  something 
for  which  I  can  claim  no  credit.  Rita  was 
doing  it  with  her  long  before  I  arrived 
on  the  scene.  Now,  when  we  get  a  script, 
we  read  it  through,  then  start  analyzing 
the  characters.  Not  only  Sherry's  part, 
but  all  of  the  parts.  By  the  time  we're 
through,  we  know  the  life  history  of  every 
person  in  the  plot — why  they  act  the  way 
they  do — all  about  them. 

"There  is  one  character  we  don't  do  much 
briefing  for,  however.  That's  Terry,  on  The 
Danny  Thomas  Show.  As  Sherry  points 
out — she  bones  up  on  that  character,  just 
breathing.  Actually,  the  part  is  so  close  to 
Sherry's  own  self  that  sometimes  it's  hard 
to  tell  where  Terry  stops  and  Sherry 
starts.  And,  just  occasionally,  Sherry  is 
apt  to  bring  Terry  home.  For  a  few  seg- 
ments last  year,  the  writers  let  Terry  get 
[  a  little  snippy,  and  when  these  things 
started  showing  up  at  home,  too — we  had 
to  point  out  right  quickly  that,  just  be- 
cause Terry  was  allowed  to  get  away  with 
t   such  action,  it  was  no  sign  Sherry  could. 

"I  probably  shouldn't  say  that  Sherry 
has  never  told  me  what  she'd  like  me  to 
write  in  the  way  of  a  play  for  her.  She 
has  vague,  general  ideas  of  roles  she'd  like 
to  play.  Only  I've  learned  not  to  take 
them  too  seriously.  I  learned  the  hard 
way.  Last  year,  she  was  all  enthused 
about  doing  a  Western.  That's  all  she 
could  talk  about — how  she'd  like  to  play 
a  part  in  a  real,  historical  Western  pic- 
ture. I  had  a  number  of  commitments  to 
get  out  of  the  way  at  the  time,  but  as 
soon  as  I  could  get  at  it,  I  started  a  West- 
ern script  with  a  part  in  it  for  her. 

"Not  long  ago  I  got  the  thing  polished 
off,  and  brought  it  for  her  to  read.  And 
what  was  her  reaction?  "That's  very  good, 
Daddy.  But  I  really  don't  think  I'd  much 
care  to  do  a  Western.  Now  if  you  could 
just  write  something  with  a  sort  of  "Snake 


OPPORTUNITIES 

for  EVERYBODY 

Publisher's  Classified   Department  (Trademark) 


For  classified  advertising  rates,  write  to  William  R.  Stewart,  9  South  Clinton  Street,  Chicago  6  (  Wom's,  Oct.)  1957 


OF  INTEREST  TO  WOMEN 

HELP  WANTED 

FREE— BIG  NEW  Wholesale  Catalog  1  Up  to  50%  saving  for 
you,  family,  friends  on  nationally-known  gifts,  jewelry,  toys, 
appliances,  Christmas  cards  etc.  Also  make  money  selling 
part  time  1  Write :  Evergreen  Studios,  Box846-AZ,  Chicago  42,  III. 
$500  FOR  YOUR  Child's  Picture  paid  by  advertisers.  Send 
one  small  photo  (All  ages).  Returned.  Print  child's  parents' 
name,  address  on  back.  Spotlite,  8346-P10  Beverly,  Holly- 
wood, California. 
DRESSES  24c;  SHOES  39c;  Men's  suits  $4.95;  trousers 

ANYONE  CAN  SELL  famous  Hoover  Uniforms  for  beauty 
shops,  waitresses,  nurses,  doctors,  others.  All  popular  miracle 
fabrics — nylon,  dacron,  orlon.  Exclusive  styles,  top  quality. 
Big  cash  income  now,  real  future.  Equipment  free.  Hoover, 
Dept.  K-119,  New  York  11,  N.Y. 

FASHION  DEMONSTRATORS— $20-$40  profit  evenings.  No 
delivering  or  collecting.  Beeline  Style  Shows  are  Party  Plan 
sensation!  Samples  furnished  Free.  Beeline  Fashions, 
Bensenville  45,  III. 

$1.20.  Better  used  clothing.  Free  Catalog.  Transworld  164-A 
Christopher,  Brooklyn  12,  N.Y. 

MAKE  $90.00  WEEKLY  Preparing  Envelopes.  Instructions 
50c.   (Refundable)   Transamerican  Sales,  216  W.  Jackson 

BEAUTY  DEMONSTRATORS— TO  $5.00  hour  demonstrat- 
ing Famous  Hollywood  Cosmetics,  your  neighborhood.  For 
free  samples,  details,  write  Studio  Girl,  Dept.  16710C,  Glen- 
dale, Calif. 

Blvd.,  Suite  612,  Chicago  6,  III. 

$200.  MONTHLY  POSSIBLE.  Sewing  Babywearl  No  house 
selling!  Send  stamped,  addressed  envelope.  Cuties,  Warsaw  1, 
Indiana. 

MAKE  PRECUT  LEATHER  Items  At  Home  Profitably.  Ex- 
perience Unnecessary.  Crown  Industries,  Dept.  1,  8507-W 
Third,  Los  Angeles  48,  California. 

DRYCLEANS  CLOTHING  FOR  only  10c  per  garment. 
Lightning  seller.  Saves  drycleaning  bills.  Samples  sent  on 
trial.  Kristee  140,  Akron,  Ohio. 

HOMEWORKERS:  ASSEMBLE  HANDLACED  Precut  moc- 
casins and  handbags.  Good  earnings.  California  Handicrafts, 
Los  Angeles  46-B,  California. 

EARN  EXTRA  MONEY  selling  Advertising  Book  Matches. 
Free  sample  kit  furnished.  Matchcorp,  Dept.  WP-42,  Chicago 
32,  Illinois. 

HOMEWORKERS  WANTEDII   GUARANTEED    Payl    No 
Selling!     Everything     Supplied.     Enterprises,    Box     112-A, 

$500  FOR  YOUR  child's  photo,  all  ages,  if  used  for  advertising. 

EDUCATIONAL  OPPORTUNITIES 

Send  photo  for  approval.  Free  gifts.  Returned  two  weeks. 
Advertisers,  6000- YJ  Sunset,  Hollywood  28,  California. 
MAKE  MONEY  SEWING  At  Home,  part  or  full  time.  We 
instruct.  No  selling.  Free  details:  Jud-San,  Box  2107,  Dept. 

COMPLETE  YOUR  HIGH  School  at  home  in  spare  time 
with  60-year-old  school.  Texts  furnished.  No  classes.  Diploma. 
Information  booklet  free.  American  School,  Dept.  X774, 
Drexel  at  58th,  Chicago  37,  Illinois. 

K-15,  Cleveland  8,  Ohio. 

MONEY,    TYPING— SEWING!    Details    Free!    Edwards, 

3912-W,  12th,  Des  Moines  13,  Iowa. 

MAKE  MONEY  CLIPPING  Articles  From  Your  Newspapers! 

LEARN  ART  METALCRAFT  and  jewelry  making.  Complete, 
inexpensive,  home  training  course  now  available.  Special  tools 
and  materials  furnished.  Write  for  free  booklet.  Interstate 
Training  Service,  Dept.  L-72,  Portland  13,  Oregon. 

Newscraft,  PW-983-E.  Main,  Columbus  5,  Ohio. 

EARN  SPARETIME  CASH  Mailing  Advertising  Literature. 

Glenway,  Box  6568,  Cleveland  1,  Ohio. 

FINISH  HIGH  SCHOOL  at  home,  spare  time.  No  classes. 
Diploma  awarded.  Write  for  Free  catalog.  Wayne  School, 
Catalog  HCH-48,  2527  Sheffield,  Chicago  14. 

SEW  OUR  READY  cut  aprons  at  home,  spare  time.  Easy, 

profitable.  Hanky  Aprons,  Caldwell  3,  Ark. 

EARN  $50  FAST  sewing  precut  products.   Information  3c. 

HIGH  SCHOOL  DIPLOMA  at  home..  Licensed  teachers.  Ap- 
proved materials.  Southern  States  Academy,  Station  E-l, 
Atlanta,  Georgia. 

Thompson's,  Loganville,  Wisconsin. 

$200.  MONTHLY  REPORTED,  preparing  envelopes.  Reveal- 
ing method,  25c!  Economy.  Box  768,  Largo  27,  Florida. 
WIVES— INCREASE  YOUR  family  income  sewing  babywear 
for  stores.  Write  Tiny-Tot,  Gallipolis  19,  Ohio. 

LEARN  WHILE  ASLEEP1  Details  free.  Research  Associa- 
tion, Box  610-WP,  Omaha. 

LOANS  BY  MAIL 

BORROW  $50  to  $500.  Employed  men  and  women  over  25, 

MONEY  MAKING  OPPORTUNITIES 

eligible.  Confidential— no  co-signers — no  inquiries  of  employ- 
ers or  friends.  Repay  in  monthly  payments  to  fit  your  income. 
Supervised  by  State  of  Nebraska.  Loan  application  sent  free 
in  plain  envelope.  Give  occupation.  American  Loan  Plan, 
City  National  Bldg.,  Dept.  WD-10,  Omaha,  Nebraska. 

ANALYZE    HANDWRITING    FOR    Profit,    Pleasure,    self- 
understanding.    TV,    radio,    newspaper    columns,    teaching, 
lecturing,  court  work.  Men  and  women,  spare  time  up  to 
$50.00  an  hour.  Amazing  opportunities.  Your  own  analysis 
and  Trial  Lesson  free.  No  children.  IGAS,  Inc.,  (18),  Spring- 
field 4,  Missouri. 

$50.00  WEEKLY  POSSIBLE  Mailing  Circulars  For  Adver- 
tisers. Complete  Instructions  25c.  Siwaslian,  4317-F  Gleane, 
Elmhurst  73,  N.Y. 

BORROW  BY  MAIL.  $100-$600.  Anywhere.  Air  Mail  Serv- 
ice. Postal  Finance,  200  Keeline  Building,  Dept.  653T, 
Omaha  2,  Nebraska. 

FOREIGN  &  U.S.A.  JOB  LISTINGS 

HIGH  PAYING  JOBS:  All  types.  Foreign,  USA.  Chance  to 
travel.  Fare  Paid.  Application  forms.  Free  information.  Write 
Dept.  102,  National  Employment  Information,  1020  Broad, 

$35  WEEKLY  PREPARING  envelopes.  Instructions  $1.  Re- 
fundable. Adservice,  Spring  Valley  151,  New  York. 

EARN  SPARETIME  CASH— Preparing,   Mailing  Catalogs. 
Everything  Furnished.  Eljay,  20Cazenove,  Boston,  16-A,  Mass. 
$25  WEEKLY  POSSIBLE,  sparetime,  Preparing  mailings  for 
advertisers.  Temple  Co.,  Muncie  2,  Indiana. 

Newark,  New  Jersey. 

AMERICAN,  OVERSEAS  JOBS,  high  pay.  Men,  Women, 
Transportation  Paid,  Free  Information,  Write  Transworld, 
200-W  West  34,  New  York  1,  N.Y. 

MAKE   EXTRA    MONEY   Sparetime.   Tom   Sales,    1305-0 

BUSINESS  OPPORTUNITIES 

GUARANTEED    HOMEWORK!     IMMEDIATE    Commis- 
sions! Free  Outfits  I  Hirsch,  1301-12  Hoe,  New  York  City  59. 
HOMEWORKERS  WANTED  PAINTING  Novelties.  NoSell- 
ing.  N.  Roland,  Vincentown  1,  N.J. 

$CASH,    MAKING    FLOWERS    sparetime.    Free    sample. 
Boycan  Industries,  Sharon  20,  Penna. 
MAKE  YOUR  TYPEWRITER   Earn   Money.   Send   $1.00. 

BUY  AT  WHOLESALE  Prices!  Resell-Big  Profits.  Brand 
names — Appliances,  housewares,  jewelry,  clothing,  luggage, 
tools,  toys,  gifts.  Free  color  catalog.  Merit  Home  Products, 
Dept.  PWS-10,  107  Manhattan  Ave.,  Brooklyn  6,  New  York. 
MAKE  BIG  MONEY  invisibly  mending  damaged  garments  at 
home.  Details  Free.  Fabricon,  6240  Broadway,  Chicago  40. 

STAMP  COLLECTING 

Hughes,  7004  Diversey,  Chicago  35. 

HOME  SEWERS  OPPORTUNITIES 

GIGANTIC  COLLECTION  FREE— Includes  Triangles- 
Early  United  States — Animals — Commemoratives — British 
Colonies — High  Value  Pictorials,  etc.  Complete  Collection  plus 
Big  Illustrated  Magazine  all  free.  Send  5c  for  postage.  Gray 
Stamp  Co.,  Dept.  PC,  Toronto,  Canada. 

OLD  COINS  AND  MONEY  WANTED 

SEW  BEAUTIFUL  FELT  Novelties.  Write  enclosing  stamp  for 
working  details.  Liebig  Industries,  Beaver  Dam  5,  Wisconsin. 
SEW    APRONS    IN    your   home,    profitably.    Write:    Adco, 
Bastrop,  Louisiana. 

AGENTS  WANTED 

WE  PURCHASE  INDIANHEAD  pennies.  Complete  allcoin 
catalogue  25c.  Magnacoins,  Box  61-PI,  Whitestone  57,  N.Y. 

WE  BUY  ALL  rare  American  coins.  Complete  catalogue  25c. 
Fairview,  Box  1116-MA,  New  York  City  8. 

BUY  AT  WHOLESALE 

60%  PROFIT  COSMETICS  $25  day  up.  Hire  others.  Samples, 
details.  Studio  Girl-Hollywood,  Glendale,  Calif.,  Dept.  16710H. 
SELL  BEAUTIFUL  PERSONALIZED  Xmas  Cards.  100% 
Profit  Deal.  Evergreen,  Box  842,  Chicago  42,  III. 
MISCELLANEOUS 

BUY  WHOLESALE!  30-80%  Discountsl  Appliances,  Gifts, 

WRITE  VERSE.  PUBLICATION  guaranteed  those  who  qual- 
ify. Write  immediately.  H.C.S.,  Inc.,  2307  National  Station, 
Springfield,  Missouri. 

Typewriters,  Tools,  Watches,  Sporting  Goods,  Jewelry,  Cam- 
eras, Housewares,  etc.  Consolidated  Distributors,  Clifton  17, 
New  Jersey. 

What  Do  3  Out  of  4 

Doctors  Recommend 

to  Relieve  Pain? 

A  survey  shows  3  out  of  4  doctors  recommend  the 
famous  ingredients  of  Anacin  Tablets  to  relieve  pain 
of  headache,  neuritis  and  neuralgia.  Here's  why 
Anacin®  gives  you  better  total  effect  in  relieving 
pain  than  aspirin  or  any  buffered  aspirin: 

■■pW  ACTS  INSTANTLY:  Anacin  goes  to  work  instantly. 
Brings  fast  relief  to  source  of  your  pain. 

■B^.  MORE  EFFECTIVE:  Anacin  is  like  a  doctor's  pre- 
scription. That  is.  Anacin  contains  not  one  but 
a  combination  of  effective,  medically  proven  in. 
gradients. 

■■^-  SAFER:  Anacin  simply  can  not  upset  your  stomach. 

■fW  LESSENS   TENSION:    Anacin    also    reduces   nervous 
r     tension,  leaves  you  relaxed,  feeling  fine  after  pain 
goes.  Buy  Anacin  today. 


SHORTHAND 


IN  6  WEEKS  T 


Write  120  words  per  minute- 
Age  no  obstacle-LOWEST  COST 


Famous  SPEEDWBITTNG  shorthand. 
No  symbols;  no  machines.  Uses 
ABC's.  Easiest  to  learn.  Fast  prepa- 
ration for  a  better  position,  sound 
future. 

Used  in  leading  offices  and  Civil 
Service.  120  words  per  minute — 50% 
FASTER  than  Civil  Service.  Over 
350,000  taught  at  home  or  through 
classroom  instruction.  Typing  avail- 
able. 35th  Year.  Schools  in  over  400 
cities. 

Write  for  FREE  Booklet  to: 
SCHOOL  OF 


BY  MISS   MARY 
VIRGINIA  BALLETTI 

NEW  YORK,  N.Y. 
"I  learned  short- 
hand in  6  weeks 
thanks  to  SPEED- 
WRITING  short- 
hand and  stepped 
into     this     position 


77 


78 


the 

TOMMY 

SANDS 

story 

complete  with 
over  125  photos 


WILL  SANDS  REPLACE  ELVIS  PRESLEY? 

Don't  miss  this  exciting  picture-filled 
life  story  of  the  handsome,  talented 
Tommy  Sands.  Here,  for  the  first  time, 
is  the  complete  account  of  the  young- 
ster who  took  show  business  by  storm, 
the  full  story  of  his  fabulous  acting 
and  recording  success,  the  inside,  little 
known  details  of  Tommy  Sands  the 
performer  and  Tommy  Sands  the  hu- 
man being. 

TOMMY  SANDS 

Yours   at  all   newsstand's— 35c 

If  your  newsdealer  has  sold  out, 
use  this  coupon 

BARTH   HOUSE,   INC. 

205  E.  42  ST.,  NEW  YORK,  17,  N.  Y. 

SIRS: 

I  ENCLOSE  35c.  PLEASE  RUSH  THE  NEW 
TOMMY  SANDS  BOOK  TO  ME. 


NAME.... 
ADDRESS. 
CITY      .  . . 


ZOME         STATE. 


Pit"  flavor.  Boyee,  would  I  like  a  chance 
at  doing  a  part  like  Olivia  de  Havilland 
had  in  that!'  I  haven't  started  any  deep 
psychological  dramas  for  her.  If  I  did, 
by  the  time  I  finished  it,  she'd  be  wanting 
to  do  a  rock  'n'  roll,  flaming-youth  story!" 

There  was  one  time,  Monte  remembers, 
when  Sherry  did  make  a  specific  request 
for  him  to  write  something  for  her.  Her 
club  at  school  was  scheduled  to  put  on 
a  playlet  at  some  school  program,  and  she 
airily  volunteered  his  services  to  write  the 
production.  This,  of  course,  without  con- 
sulting him  first.  "I  remember  I  was 
working  at  Warner  Bros,  at  the  time.  I 
hadn't  the  fuzziest  notion  of  what  to 
write  for  the  girls,  and  mentioned  my 
dilemma  to  some  of  the  other  writers. 
That  evening,  after  work,  four  or  five  of 
us  retired  to  a  near-by  restaurant,  where 
we  kicked  around  a  few  ideas. 

"We  did  this  for  the  next  several  eve- 
nings, and  finally  came  up  with  a  playlet 
which  we  gave  the  girls.  One  of  the  fellows 
figured  it  out — just  for  laughs — that  the 
amount  of  time  we  spent  on  that  project, 
at  our  going  hourly  wage,  would  have 
brought  the  total  cost  for  writing  alone 
to  about  $4,000.  And  do  you  know  what? 
The  thing  fell  flat  on  its  face  when  they 
put  it  on!  We  never  have  figured  out 
why.  I  like  to  think  it  was  just  too  pro- 
fessional a  production  for  a  group  of  ama- 
teurs, and  young  girls,  at  that.  Any  other 
conclusion  is  too  unflattering.  Anyway,  I 
doubt   that   Sherry   will   ever   ask   again." 

As  in  many  homes  where  there's  a 
good-sized  family,  the  Pittman  home  is 
seldom  populated  solely  by  Pittmans. 
Gary  has  the  customary  thirteen-year-old 
mob,  which  gravitates  regularly  to  the  pool 
in  the  back  yard.  Curtis,  now  away  in 
the  Air  Force,  rarely  gets  home.  But, 
before  he  left,  his  chums  were  generally 
all  over  the  place — or,  as  Rita  claims,  all 
over  the  kitchen. 

And  Sherry,  who  has  just  wound  up 
the  most  thrilling  year  of  her  life  thus  far 
(simply  because  her  schedule  was  ar- 
ranged so  that  she  could  spend  six  whole 
months  attending  public  school)  brings 
young  folks  home  by  the  score.  She  has 
made  good  grades  at  school,  and  is  al- 
lowed continued  social  privileges  so  long 
as  she  sustains  those  grades. 

In  many  ways,  Sherry  is  mature  beyond 
her  years,  largely  because  of  the  years 
she's  been  in  such  close  contact  with  the 
adult  world  making  movies  and  television 
films.     But  Rita  claims  you'd  never  know 


that,  once  Sherry  gets  with  a  group  of 
girls  her  own  age.  "She  can  be  as  giddy, 
as  scatterbrained,  as  light-headed  as  any 
girl  of  fifteen  has  a  right  to  be,"  Rita 
laughs.  "She  told  an  interviewer  once 
that  her  hobbies  were  boys,  records,  boys, 
dancing,  and  boys,  in  that  order.  And 
I  guess  that  was  correct.  We  have  a 
never-ceasing,  ever-changing  parade  of 
boys  through  that  front  door. 

"People  are  always  writing  and  talking 
about  father-daughter  relationships,  and 
how  fathers  are  supposed  to  'screen'  the 
young  men  their  daughters  bring  home. 
So  far  as  I  can  see,  the  same  thing  goes 
for  stepfather-stepdaughter  relationships. 
You  should  hear  what  Monte  has  to  say 
about  some  of  the  boys  Sherry  brings 
home.  He  says  it  to  me,  and  in  private — 
but  I  swear  he  couldn't  feel  more  violently 
about  the  subject  if  Sherry  were  really  his 
own   daughter!" 

Monte  has  become  philosophical  about 
such  things,  however.  "At  first,  I  got 
all  excited  when  she'd  bring  home  some- 
one obviously  unsuitable  for  her.  But  I 
kept  myself  under  control,  never  came  out 
with  any  flat  directives,  never  told  her 
she  couldn't  see  such  and  such  a  boy 
again. 

"And  the  funny  thing  was — after  I'd 
seen  a  lad  a  couple  of  times,  I'd  mellow  a 
little,  and  he  wouldn't  look  so  bad,  after 
all.  Then  maybe  I'd  say  to  Sherry,  'You 
know  that  Pete  you  brought  home  last 
week?  I  didn't  like  him  much  at  first,  but 
he  doesn't  seem  such  a  bad  lad  now!"  And 
invariably  her  reply  would  be  'Oh,  him! 
That  was  last  week!' 

"So  I've  just  sort  of  given  up.  The  way 
we  figure  it,  if  Rita  and  and  I  haven't  been 
able  by  now,  to  teach  her  how  to  behave, 
how  to  judge  people,  and  how  to  pick 
friends  wisely,  it's  a  little  too  late  to 
start!" 

There  are  a  lot  of  people  who  would 
tell  you  Sherry  Jackson  is  a  lucky  girl. 
They  may  be  referring  to  her  fresh  good 
looks.  They  may  be  referring  to  those 
thirty  movies,  and  those  television  shows, 
and  those  five  years  on  The  Danny  Thomas 
Show.  They  may  be  referring  to  her  in- 
come, which  amounts  each  month  to  more 
than  many  heads-of-the-house  make  in  a 
year.  But  the  biggest  piece  of  luck  Sherry 
Jackson  ever  had  was  in  being  born  to 
a  mother  like  Rita — and  being  able  to  fill 
a  gap  in  her  fife  with  a  stepfather  like 
Monte.  That  kind  of  luck  more  girls 
should  have! 


Dreams  Do  Come  True 


(Continued  from  page  39) 
Story.  Dick's  very  happy  about  that,  too, 
even  though  he  feels  more  sure  of  him- 
self in  comedy. 

"All  the  important  things  I've  done  in  the 
theater,"  says  Dick,  "have  been  comedy. 
In  'Mr.  Roberts,'  for  instance,  I  was  the 
third  replacement  for  David  Wayne  as  En- 
sign Pulver — one  of  the  funniest  parts  ever 
written  for  an  actor.  So  I  just  feel  a  little 
better  in  comedy  than  I  do  in  a  straight 
romantic  part  like  Ted  Bond,  which  I  re- 
cently did  on  My  True  Story.  But  playing 
opposite  Rosemary  Rice  in  that  one  made 
it  easy.  I've  known  Rosie  for  eighteen 
years.  When  they  were  kids,  Rosie  and 
my  sister,  Joyce  Van  Patten,  were  in  a 
show  together.  Rosie  and  I  have  been 
playing  the  sister  and  brother  roles  of 
Katrin  and  Nels  on  Mama  for  some  ten 
years  (we're  the  only  members  of  the  orig- 
inal radio  cast  they  kept  on  for  the  TV 
show),  so  we're  almost  'family'  really. 
And  we've  always  liked  each  other,  worked 
well  together,  been  good  friends.  So,  of 
course,  I'm  happy  that  Rosie 's  playing  my 


sister  on  TV — and  my  girlfriend  on  radio." 
Things  work  out  this  way — happily,  that 
is — for  Dick.  And  always  have.  "It's  true," 
he  says,  "that  I  haven't  a  frustration  or  an 
unfulfilled  desire  to  my  name.  How  can 
I  have,  when  everything  I  wanted  as  a 
child  I've  got?  I'll  tell  you  a  story — my 
true  story — in  proof  of  what  I  say. 

"When  I  was  a  kid,  I  used  to  ride  my 
bike  from  Richmond  Hill,  Long  Island, 
where  I  was  born  and  grew  up,  out  to 
Bellerose — also  on  the  island — which  was 
my  favorite  place  of  any  place  I'd  ever 
seen.  In  Bellerose,  there  was  one  section 
I  liked  the  best  of  all.  The  houses  there 
looked  like  the  houses  in  the  'Andy  Hardy' 
pictures — remember?  Picket  fences.  Chil- 
dren playing  in  the  yard.  Geraniums  in 
the  window.  Flower  gardens.  On  Huron 
Road,  there  was  a  three-storey  white- 
shingled  house  which  I  liked  best  of  all.  I 
used  to  park  my  bike  against  a  tree  and 
stand  there,  looking  at  it.  I  liked  the 
school,  too,  the  Floral  Park  Bellerose 
school,  with  trees  all  around  it  and  every- 
thing.    When  I  get  married,  I  used  to  say 


-tj| 


to  myself,  here  is  where  I  am  going  to  live 
— in  Bellerose,  on  Huron  Road,  in  this 
house — And  my  kids  will  go  to  the  school 
with  the  trees  around  it.  And  I  hope  I 
have  a  whole  lot  oj  kids.  My  mother,  who 
is  Italian,  was  one  of  thirteen,"  he  ex- 
plains, "and  I  think  big  families  are  fun." 

Today,  Dick  and  his  golden-haired  love- 
]y_to-look-at  Pat  and  their  two  small  sons, 
Richard  Nels,  who  is  two,  James  Tyler, 
seven  months  (and  another  baby  due  this 
very  month  of  October)  are  living  in  Belle- 
rose,  in  that  very  house.  If  this  isn't 
dreams-come-true,  storybook  stuff,  it  will 
do  until  something  dreamier  comes  along. 

Furthermore,  Dick's  hope  of  having  "a 
whole  lot  of  kids"  seems  more  than  like- 
ly to  be  fulfilled.  "With  three  babies,  one 
right  after  the  other  in  less  than  four  years, 
we've  made  a  good  beginning,"  Dick  says, 
understating  the  matter. 

It  seems  strange  that  a  boy  who  chose 
the  house  in  which  he  would  live  when  he 
got  married — who  dreamed  of  "the  whole 
lot  of  kids"  he  would  have — never  visual- 
ized the  girl  who  would  be  his  wife  and 
the  mother  of  the  whole  lot  of  kids.  But 
he  never  did.  How  could  he  dream  so 
tall,  he  asks,  as  to  suppose  that  She  would 
be  a  ballet  dancer,  graceful  as  a  willow 
branch,  and  "the  most  beautiful  girl  I  have 
ever  seen  in  my  life"? 

Nor  did  he  dream  of  what  he  would  be 
when  he  grew  up  .  .  .  for,  at  the  tender 
age  of  five,  he  entered  a  children's  ama- 
teur contest  in  a  Richmond  Hills  neigh- 
borhood theater,  and — before  he'd  had 
time  to  dream  about  it — Dick  was  on  his 
way  to  being  what  he  was  going  to  be 
when   he   grew   up. 

"The  contest,  sponsored  by  Loew's  The- 
aters, was  held  in  neighborhood  theaters  all 
over  Long  Island,"  Dick  explains.  "Hun- 
dreds of  children  competed  and  the  win- 
ner in  each  district  was  given  a  final  audi- 
tion at  Loew's  State  in  New  York.  Mrs. 
Eleanor  Roosevelt  and  the  late  Mayor 
La  Guardia  were  the  judges.  (This  was 
about  1935).  The  prize  was  a  trip  to  Hol- 
lywood and  a  six -month  contract  with  the 
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer  Studios — and  I 
won!  It  was  really  rather  silly.  That  I 
won,  I  mean.  I  just  recited  a  poem  about 
my  mother.  I  can't  remember  it  now,  but 
it  was  something  about  how  Mommy  gets 
you  up  in  the  morning,  makes  you  eat  your 
breakfast,  wear  your  rubbers — that  kind  of 
thing. 

"Anyway,  I  did  win  and  I  did  go  to  Hol- 
lywood (my  grandmother  Van  Patten  took 
me)  and  we  lived  there  six  months,  wait- 
ing for  M-G-M  to  give  me  a  part  in  a 
picture.  They  didn't — but  they  found  .  a 
play  for  me  on  Broadway,  'Tapestry  in 
Gray,'  which  starred  Melvyn  Douglas  and 
the  late  Elissa  Landi,  and  I  played  their 
son.  The  play  was  a  flop — lasted  only  four 
weeks — but  I  went  immediately  into  an- 
other show,  'The  Eternal  Road,'  directed 
by  Max  Reinhardt  and  Kurt  Weill.  After 
that,  I  was  always  in  a  show — always,  with 
never  more  than  a  two  weeks'  interim  be- 
tween engagements.  Of  course,  I  played 
just  kid  parts — bellhops  and  things  like 
that — but  the  plays  were  not  unimportant, 
nor  the  stars.  There  was  'The  American 
Way,'  for  instance,  starring  Fredric  March 
and  Florence  Eldridge." 

Dick  was  ten  when  he  joined  the  cast 
of  "The  Woman  Brown."  A  year  later,  he 
appeared  in  a  revival  of  "Ah,  Wilderness!" 
He  was  twelve  when  his  outstanding  per- 
formance in  Guthrie  McClintic's  produc- 
tion, "The  Lady  Who  Came  to  Stay,"  won 
him  a  Billboard  award.  That  same  year, 
he  played  in  the  Kaufman-Ferber  comedy- 
drama,  "The  Land  Is  Bright."  The  im- 
portance of  the  parts  he  played,  and  his 
ability  to  play  them,  clearly  grew  with  his 
own   growth. 

Dick's     pleasant,     easygoing,     time-for- 


** 


«©i 


Thfc  is  the  home  study  course  that 
can   change  your  whole   life  I 

THE  FIELD  OF  PRACTICAL  NURSING 
OFFERS    UNUSUAL    OPPORTUNITIES   to 

both  women  and  men  for  careers  as 
Practical  Nurses,  Nurse's  Aides, 
Nurse-Companions,  Doctor's  Office 
Nurses,  Infant  Nurses,  and  as  Hos- 
pital Attendants. 

HIGH  SCHOOL  EDUCATION  NOT  RE- 
QUIRED. Easy-to-understand  course, 
complete  with  pictures  and  written 
in  plain  everyday  language.  Students 
up  to  65  accepted. 

IN  JUST  A  FEW  SHORT  MONTHS 
FROM  NOW  you  should  be  able  to 
accept  your  first  cases.  Our  graduates 
report  making  $40  to  $65  a  week 
and  more. 

BUT  THE  IMPORTANT  THING  IS  to 
get  FREE  information  NOW  without 
cost  or  obligation.  You  get  FREE 
sample  lesson  pages  and  our  FREE 
Nursing  folder  by  clipping  the  cou- 
pon at  the  right  and  sending  it  or 
a  postcard  to  us  immediately.  Your 
FREE  material  will  reach  you  by 
return  mail. 


BE  A  NURSE! 


LEARN  PRACTICAL  NURSING  AT  HOME 
IN  A  FEW  SHORT  MONTHS 

What  our  Graduates  says 


Mail  Coupon  Today  for  FREE  sample  lesson  pages 


POST  GRADUATE 
SCHOOL  OF  NURSING 

9A110T  auditorium  Bldg..  Chicago  o.  lit 


POST  GRADUATE  SCHOOL  OF  NURSING 

9M107  Auditorium  Bldg.,  Chicago  5,  III. 

Send   me,  without  obligation,    your  FREE  sample 
lesson    pages,    and    your    FREE   folder. 

NAME 

ADDRESS 

CITY ZONE STATE 


Here's  the  easiest  way  to  make  extra 

money  in  spare  time  I    Just  turn  the  pages 

of  our  handy  album  and  41  beautiful  new 

Christmas  Cards  spring  to  life!  Friends 

buy  on  sight.  New  MAGI  CO  LOR  cards  -* 

pay  you  $65  profit  on  65  boxes.  Big 

variety  of  personalized  cards,  $1.00 

assortments, novel  gifts.  Profits tol00% 

plus  extra  cash  bonus.   24-hour  serv--* 

ice.  Write  for  FREE  Album,  and  samples 

on  approval,  plus  FREE  Gift  Offer. 

SOUTHERN  GREETINGS,  Dept.  31-G 

478  N.Hollywood  -  Memphis  12, Tenn. 


LUSTRE-CREME 
SHAMPOO 

Never  dries... 


it  beautifies 


l-0*&m 


l«sfc-§0# 
shampoo 


CREAM 
29c  and  57c 


t  LOTION 

30c  and  60c 


No  wonder  U  out  of  5  top  Hollywood  movie 
stars  insist  on  Lustre-Creme! 


Get  Lustre-Creme  Shampoo  at 


BEN  FRANKLIN  STORES 


79 


80 


YbuCanPlay 


ANY  INSTRUMENT 

.  .  .  even  if  you  don't  know 
a  single  note  of  music  now! 

IMAGINE!  Even  if  you  never  dreamed  you  could  play 
.  .  .  you  <an  soon  surprise  friends  with  your  musical 
ability.  No  special  talent  or  previous  training  needed. 
Spend  just  a  few  minutes  a  day  at  home — and  only  a  few 
cents  per  lesson.  Teach  yourself  to  play  piano,  guitar, 
accordion,  any  instrument.  Make  amazingly  rapid  progress 
because  you  start  right  out  playing  real  pieces  by  note. 
No  boring  exercises.  Over  900,000  people  have  chosen  this 
easy  method,   including  famous  TV   Star  Lawrence  Welk! 

MAIL   COUPON   FOR   FREE    BOOK— 

Read    the    whole   fascinating    story   of   this 

wonderful    method    in    36-page    illustrated 

book.    For    FREE  «opy,     mail    coupon    to: 

U.  S.  School  of  Music,  Studio  A20I0 

Port  Washington,  N.  Y. 

59th    successful  year. 

u*. ~s". "school  ^ofIwu S I c~~ ~ 

Studio    A2010,    Port   Washington,    N.    Y. 

Please    send    me    your    36-page    illustrated    Free    Book. 

I'm    interested    in    playinc    (name    instrument* 

□   I  do  D  I  do  NOT— have  instrument  now. 


Name 

Address.. 


(please  print) 


$ 


500  r 

PAID! 


FOR  YOUR 

CHILD'S 


PHOTO 


CASH  PAYMENTS  made  for  chil- 
dren's photos,  all  types,  ages  1 
mo.  to  18  yrs.  by  national  adver- 
tisers. Hundreds  selected  every 

month  for  use  in  advertising.  Send  Ismail  photo  for  approval. 

Print  child's  &  mother's  name,  address  on  back.  Also  2  FREE 

gifts  for  photos  selected.  Returned  2  weeks.  No  obligation. 

AD-PHOTOS.  6087-HJ  Sunset,  Hollywood  28,  Calif. 


BUNIONS 

DOCTOR'S  FAST  RELIEF 

You  never  tried  anything  so  won- 
derful as  Dr.  Scholl's  Bunion  Re- 
ducer of  soft  rubber.  Relief  is  im- 
mediate. Hides  bulge.  Preserves  shape  of  shoe,  helps  reduce 
enlargement.  75£  each.  Sold  everywhere.  If  not  obtainable 
at  your  dealer's,  order  by  mail.  Mention  shoe  size  and 
width  and  if  for  Right  or  Left  foot.  Satisfaction  guaranteed . 

DR.  SCHOU'S,  Inc.,  Qopt  BR,  213  W.  Schiller  St,  Chicago  1 0,  III. 

ANY  PHOTO  ENLARGED 

Size  8  x  10  Inches 

on  DOUBLE-WEIGHT  Paper 

Same  price  for  full  length  or  bu 
form,  groups,  landscapes,  pet  an 
mats.  etc..  or  enlargements  of  ar 
part  of  a  group  picture.  Original 
returned  with  your  enlargement 
_^__B    On  orders  of  2  or  more  we  will 
CBEEI    send  you  one  25c  Miniature  Por- 
rKEGl    trait,  sizel'  x6".  FREE.     Mall 
photo,  negative  orsnapshot(any  size)  and  receive 
your  enlargement,  guaranteed  fadeless,  on  beau- 
tiful double -weight  portrait  quality  paper, 
C.  O.  D.'s  accepted  on  orders  of  2  or  more. 
Take  advantage  of  this  amazing  offer.    Send  your  photos  today. 

Professional  Art  Studios,  544 S.  Main,  Dept.  37-M,  Princeton.  Illinois 


iMm  Mail  coupon  today  for  FREE 
i  copy  of  famous  Helen  Gallagher- 
i  Foster  House  Gift  Catalog — all 
1  in  color.  Gifts  for  every  taste, 
1  ior  every  purse,  for  Christmas 
"  and  every  occasion.  Satisfac- 
tion guaranteed  or  your  money  back. 

j     Helen  Gallagher-Foster  House 

I    413  Fulton  St.,  Dept.   S70C3,  Peoria,  III. 

|   Please  rush  my  FREE  copy  of  your  famous  Gift  Catalog.  | 

I   NAME I 

I   ADDRESS - 

•   POST  OFFICE. STATE.... | 


49 


everything  personality  belies  the  human 
dynamo  he  actually  must  be — for,  despite 
his  fifteen  or  so  roles  in  major  stage  pro- 
ductions and  the  good  average  he  main- 
tained in  his  school  work,  he  also  rolled 
up  a  sizable  stockpile  of  work  in  radio, 
television,  films  and  summer  stock.  In 
1941,  he  starred  as  Jimmy  Dugan  in  Reg- 
ular Fellows  on  radio,  then  played  the 
same  part  in  the  film  version  the  follow- 
ing year.  Other  radio  credits  have  in- 
cluded running  parts  on  Young  Widder 
Brown,  The  Aldrich  Family,  David  Harum, 
Miss  Hattie,  (with  Ethel  Barrymore)  and 
The  Right  To  Happiness. 

Come  the  hobbledehoy,  early  teen-age 
period  and  most  juvenile  actors  find  them- 
selves "at  liberty."  But  not  young  Master 
Van  Patten,  who  was  sixteen  when  he  got 
the  biggest  part  he'd  ever  had — or  thought 
to  have — that  of  Michael,  son  of  the  fabu- 
lous Lunts,  in  "O  Mistress  Mine,"  which 
he  played  on  Broadway  for  three  seasons, 
then  on  tour  with  the  road  company. 

Dick's  modesty,  the  complete  lack  of 
anything  actor-ish  in  his  manner  or 
speech  or  behavior,  in  the  way  he  dresses 
or  in  the  way  he  lives,  is  probably  due  to 
the  fact  that — although  he  was  a  "child 
actor" — his  home -life  was  always  that  of 
any  normal-average  American  youngster. 
"We  lived  in  a  big  old  house  in  Richmond 
Hill,"  Dick  says.  "My  father,  for  whom 
I  was  named — (Dad  is  Holland-Dutch,  and 
I  resemble  him) — is  an  interior  decorator. 
My  mother,  who  is  now  a  theatrical  agent, 
was  a  Physical  Ed.  instructor  at  the  Rich- 
mond Hill  High  School.  My  sister,  Joyce 
— who  is  five  years  younger  than  I — made 
her  stage  debut  when  she  was  seven,  in 
'Love's  Old  Sweet  Song,'  which  starred 
Jessie  Royce  Landis  and  the  late  Walter 
Huston.  At  home  we  never  did  any  play- 
acting, either  of  us — probably,"  Dick 
laughs,  "because  we  worked  at  it!  Besides, 
there  were  too  many  other  things  to  do. 

"I  went  to  public  school  for  five  years, 
then  to  Holy  Child  in  Richmond  Hills 
through  the  sixth,  seventh  and  eighth 
grades.  Except  that  I  had  to  miss  some 
classes  on  matinee  days,  and  take  naps 
from  five  to  seven  every  afternoon,  I  did 
pretty  much  what  the  other  kids  did — 
played  baseball  and  football,  went  swim- 
ming at  Jones  Beach,  rode  my  bike. 

"After  I  got  out  of  grammar  school,  I 
went  to  the  Professional  Children's  School 
in  New  York  for  two  years — then,  when  I 
got  the  part  in  'O  Mistress  Mine,'  I  quit. 
And  never  went  back  to  school  again.  It 
was  when  I  started  working  with  the 
Lunts  that  I  really  began  to  get  excited, 
for  the  first  time,  about  acting.  I'd  always 
liked  it,  it  was  fun,  it  was  sort  of  second 
nature  to  me  .  .  .  but,  now  and  again,  I'd 
think  that  maybe  I'd  be  a  jockey  when  I 
grew  up."  (A  strongly  built  young  man — 
height,  5-foot-10,  weight,  150  pounds — a 
jockey?)  "Once  I'd  worked  with  the 
Lunts,  though,  watched  them  work,  I 
knew  that  I  was  doing  what  I  wanted  to 
do.  I'd  settle,  I  decided,  for  owning  a 
couple  of  race  horses  which — another 
dream   come   true — I  have  done. 

"At  the  Professional  Children's  School, 
another  dream  began  to  come  true  for 
me — although,"  Dick  laughs,  "there  was 
to  be  a  period  of  nightmare  before  it  did! 
In  one  classroom,  a  girl  named  Pat  Poole 
and  I  sat  right  next  to  each  other.  I  liked 
her.  She  says  now  that  she  liked  me,  too. 
But  that  is  as  far  as  it  went.  We  never 
had  a  date.  I  never  asked  her  for  one. 
She  was  so  very  pretty,  I  never  thought 
she  would.  Besides,  I  was  only  fourteen 
and  she  was  only  twelve,  and  both  of  us 
young,  in  the  boy-meets-girl  department, 
even  for  our  young  ages.  A  few  years 
later,  we  have  since  discovered,  we  were 
near  neighbors — when  I  was  living  at  1 
West  Sixty-seventh  Street  in  New  York, 


where  I  had  an  apartment,  and  Pat  was 
living  at  128  West  Sixty-seventh,  right 
down  the  block — but  I  never  ran  into  her, 
not  once.    All  that  time  wasted. 

"More  time  passes — wasted,  too!"  sighs 
Dick,  "and  now  it's  1953  and  the  Mama 
show  is  rehearsing  in  Studio  41  at  Grand 
Central  Station.  We  rehearsed  from  ten 
in  the  morning  to  one,  then  Jackie  Gleason 
and  his  cast  came  in  and  rehearsed  from 
one  to  five.  As  the  June  Taylor  Dancers 
came  in  with  the  Gleason  outfit — about 
twenty-five  of  them,  all  very  pretty — I 
sort  of  hung  around  one  day,  took  my  time 
getting  out.  And,  as  I  was  taking  my  time, 
there,  among  the  June  Taylor  girls,  I  saw 
her.  But,  although  I  recognized  her,  I 
couldn't  place  her. 

"After  what  seemed  a  lifetime  but  was 
probably  three  minutes,  I  walked  over  to 
her  and  said,  'Don't  I  know  you?'  'I'm  Pat 
Poole,'  she  said.  'I'm  Dick  Van  Patten,'  I 
said.  'The  Professional  Children's  School!' 
we  both  said.  Then  I  asked  her — and  my 
heart  was  really  jumping  around — 'Are 
you  married?'  She  said,  'No,  but  I'm  en- 
gaged.' I  really  got  dizzy.  My  heart 
dropped  like  a  stone,  down  to  the  floor. 
I  don't  remember  what  I  said  next.  Noth- 
ing, I  guess. 

"That  evening,  and  for  the  next  several 
days,  I  went  around  to  everyone  I  knew 
and  asked,  'If  a  girl's  engaged,  does  that 
mean  there's  no  chance?'  'Doesn't  mean 
a  thing,'  I  was  told,  'ask  her  out  for  lunch- 
engaged  girls  will  go  out  for  lunch.'  But 
I  didn't  ask  her  for  lunch.  I  didn't  have 
the  nerve.    I  was  going  crazy. 

"Then  a  terrible  thing  happened.  Rose- 
mary and  I  had  to  do  the  Turkey  Trot  in 
one  of  the  scenes  on  the  Mama  show  and 
someone  had  to  teach  me  how  to  dance. 
Someone  suggested  that  we  try  to  get  Pat 
Poole.  And,  every  morning  for  a  week, 
she  taught  me  how  to  dance  the  Turkey 
Trot.  As  the  week  drew  to  an  end,  I  was 
still  going  crazy.' 

"Rosie  was  a  big  help.  On  the  last  day, 
she  went  to  Pat  and  said,  'Why  don't  you 
come  up  to  my  house  for  dinner  tonight?' 
Pat  accepted.  And  I  was  there.  Rosie's 
date  was  there,  too,  and  it  was  all  very 
casual.  We  had  dinner.  Afterwards,  we 
played  Monopoly  and  Go  to  the  Head  of 
the  Class.  As  we  were  leaving,  I  whis- 
pered to  Rosie,  'I'd  marry  her  tomorrow!' 
But  I  had  very  little  hope.  The  wedding 
date  wasn't  set,  she'd  said,  but  she'd  talked 
about  where  they  were  going  to  live  after 
they  were  married — and  every  word  was 
like  a  nail  in  the  flesh.  Oh,  it  was  an 
awful  feeling! 

"And  then  I  didn't  see  her  for  two  weeks. 
By  this  time,  everyone  on  the  Mama  show 
knew  I  was  going  crazy,  including  my  TV 
parents,  Peggy  Wood  and  Judson  Laire, 
with  whom  I  have  a  very  warm  and  per- 
sonal relationship.  And  everyone  was 
trying  to  help — including  Carol  Erwin,  our 
producer,  who  came  to  me  at  the  end  of 
the  two  profitless  weeks  and  said,  'We 
need  a  can-can  dancer  on  the  show.  Why 
don't  you  call  Pat  Poole  and  ask  her  to 
audition  for  us?  Make  you  look  good.'  I 
called  Pat  and  she,  along  with  seven  other 
girls,  came  in  for  the  audition.  While  she 
was  auditioning,  I  was  walking  up  and 
down  the  hall  praying  she'd  get  it.  I 
shouldn't  have  worried.  Pat  had  been  in 
the  ballet  corps  at  the  Music  Hall  for 
three-and-a-half  years.  She'd  been  one 
of  the  June  Taylor  Dancers  for  three 
years.  She'd  been  on  Broadway  in  'Me 
and  Juliet.'  She's  terrific.  Her  audition, 
as  I  might  have  known,  was  terrific. 

"So,  that  week  on  the  show — another 
whole  week  of  being  with  her  part  of  every 
day — I  really  opened  up.  Might  as  well 
find  out  if  I  really  had  any  chance.  We 
went  for  coffee,  a  sort  of  light  lunch  date, 
in  Grand  Central  Station.  I  told  her  she 
was  the  most  beautiful  thing  I  had  ever 


I 


een.  I  told  her  I  loved  her.  'Sounds  silly, 
know— you're  engaged.  But  I  just 
wanted  you  to  know.'  When  she  didn't 
say  anything,  just  looked  at  me,  I  asked, 
shaking  in  my  shoes,  'Can't  you  go  out  on 
a  date  with  me — say,  once  a  week?  Go  to 
a  movie,  maybe?'  I  don't  remember  what 
she  said.  But,  if  it  wasn't  yes,"  Dick 
aughs,  "at  least  it  wasn't  no.  On  our  first 
date,  we  had  dinner  at  Cherio's,  a  little 
Italian  restaurant,  and  then  to  a  movie. 
After  the  show,  Pat  said  her  mother  loved 
ce  cream,  so  I  bought  some  and  we  went 
home  to  her  house.  A  few  weeks — and  a 
few  dates — later,  Pat  said,  'I  think  my 
mother  really  likes  you  better  than  she 
does  my  fiance.'  Then,"  Dick  laughs,  "I 
bought  her  mother  more  ice  cream! 

"But  whether  or  not  Pat  liked  me  bet- 
ter, I  didn't  know — nor,  I  suspected,  did 
she.  At  the  end  of  about  six  or  seven 
weeks,  I  said,  'We  can't  go  on  like  this.' 
That  evening,  Pat  said  she  thought  she  did 
like  me  better  than  her  fiance  and  that 
she  would  tell  him  so.  She  didn't  tell  him 
that  she  liked  me  better — but  she  did  tell 
him  that  she  had  been  seeing  me,  that  she 
was  confused  about  the  way  she  felt  and 
was  going  to  Europe  with  her  godmother, 
to  make  up  her  mind.  She  went  to  Europe. 
She  stayed  in  Europe  for  two  months. 
Two  awful  months  for  me  and  for  the 
other  fellow — both  of  us  waiting  for  her 
to  return  with  her  mind — and  her  heart — 
made  up. 

"It  was  September  when  Pat  got  back. 
Six  months  later,  on  April  25,  we  were 
married  in  the  Actors'  Chapel  of  St. 
Malachy's  Church  in  New  Yorjk.  Pat  wore 
the  traditional  white  satin,  the  veil,  the 
orange  blossoms,  the  'something  bor- 
rowed, something  blue,'  and  was  the  most 
beautiful  bride — so  ethereally  slim,  so  gold 
and  white — a  bridegroom  ever  beheld. 

"Am  I  as  much  in  love  now  as  I  was 
four  years  ago?  More  in  love  now — oh, 
more,  much  more!"  Completely  happy  as 
of  now,  there  isn't  the  slightest  change 
Dick  would  make  in  the  life  he  lives,  or 
in  where  he  lives  it.  Bellerose  is  still  his 
favorite  place  of  any  he  has  ever  seen. 
And  the  house  on  Huron  Road  is  the  one 
he  did  buy  when  he  got  married. 

"In  Bellerose,"  Dick  says,  "you  live  very 
simply,  which  is  the  way  I  like  to  live  and 
intend  to  live,  always.  We  don't  keep  any 
help.  Pat  has  a  dish-washer,  clothes- 
washer  and  dryer — which  is  as  good,  she 
says,  as  having  three  in  help.  I  sometimes 
do  charcoal-broiled  steaks  and  hamburgers 
on  the  grill  outdoors.  Otherwise,  Pat  does 
all  the  cooking,  and  she's  -a  wonderful 
cook,  wonderful.  Which  certainly  contrib- 
utes to  my  happiness,"  Dick  laughs,  "since 
I  live  for  food — especially  spaghetti  and 
Chinese  food— and  for  a  bed,  a  good  bed, 
to  sleep  in!  I've  never  been  much  use  as 
a  handyman,  but  I'm  learning— I  built  the 
picket  fence.  I  mow  the  lawn.  I  pull  the 
kids  around  in  a  cart. 
j  "On  Huron  Street,  most  of  our  neigh- 
bors live  pretty  much  the  same  as  we  do. 
In  Bellerose,  neighbors  are  really  neigh- 
bors, too — the  kind  that  are  always  willing 
to  turn  a  hand  and  help  a  fellow  with  a 
job  of  work.  We  all  do  our  share  of  the 
community  work.  I'm  a  volunteer  fireman. 
Pat  is  a  member  of  the  Women's  Club. 
When  our  kids  start  going  to  the  Floral 
Park  Bellerose  school,  which  is  where 
they  will  be  going,  we'll  be  active  mem- 
bers of  the  P.T.A.  Pat  almost  never  goes 
into  the  city— and,  except  when  I  go  to 
work,  neither  do  I.  For  amusement,  we 
get  together  with  some  of  the  neighbors 
j  and  play  games  like  Monopoly. 

"I've  had  a  terrific  life,"  Dick  says  then, 


BUY  U.  S.  SAVINGS   BONDS 


Never  a  dull  moment 
u  'be  u  you  're  bright  HI     I  f&  I J  !■ 
Be  a  gay  blonde  charmer — today! 


TURN  "so-so"  hair  glamour- 
bright  and  see  how  exciting 
life  can  be!  With  Marchand's 
Golden  Hair  Wash,  you  can 
lighten  just  a  shade  or  go 
dashing,  dazzling  blonde  — 
safely,  easily  at  home.  Or  add 
sunny  highlights,  gleam  dark 
hair  with  bronze.  Golden  Hair 
Wash,  complete  in  one  pack- 
age, has  been  the  favorite 
home  hair  lightener  for  over 
50  years.  Lightens  arm  and 
leg  hair,  too. 


At  drugstores 
everywhere 
75«  and  $1.00, 
plus  tax 


MARCHAND'S  GOLDEN  HAIR  WASH 


NOW!  Save  Up  to  50% 
on  Nationally  Advertised  Gifts 

Use  this  big-,  new  FREE  CATA- 
LOG to  buy  all  klndB  t>f  gifts 
and  merchandise  for  yourself, 
family,  friends,  neighbors.  Ter- 
rific saving  on  big-name  Items. 
Also,  malce  money  spare  time 
taking  orders   from    others! 

EVERGREEN  STUDIOS 

Box   846  CHICAGO    42,    III. 


flow 


■THE  THEATRE, 


Prepare  now.  at  home,  for  a  wonderful  acting  career!  Open 
the  door  that  may  bring  fabulous  Hollywood  or  New  York 

'  contracts  in  TV.  Movies,  the  Theater!  New  faces,  new  tal- 
ent, are  urgently  needed!  Real  opportunity  for  men  and 
women  of  all  ages!  Learn  latest  acting  techniques,  direction, 

\  show  business  "success  secrets"!  Develop  new  poise  ,  vi- 
brant personality  as  you  mould  your  basic  talent.  We've 

'  helped  countless  others  ...  let  us  show  you  the  way. 
r  n  r  r  I  "Talent  Aplitude'Tesl.  Nothing  like  itever!  Lets  you 

I  itltti    ra,e  Vour  talent  against  "studio  requirements." 

1  Write  for  FREE  "Tesf'i  "Success  Plan"!  No  salesman  will  call-i 
•  HOLLYWOOD  ROYAL  ACADEMY* 

\  Studio  5  I        5880  Hollywood  Blvd.,  Hollywood  28,  Calif. 


Ugly  broken, 
split  nails. .c 


333333 


/] 


Marvel  Nails 


— a  new  liquid  preparation  that  hardens  into  long, 
glamorous  finger  nails.  Now  you  can  change 
broken,  split,  bitten  nails  into  strong  beautiful 
nails — stronger  than  your  own  nails.  STOPS  NAIL 
BITING. 

Will  not  break  or  crack.  Stays  on  until  your  own 
nails  grow  out.  Can  be  filed,  trimmed  and  beauti- 
fully polished.  Each  nail  is  made  in  one  minute. 
You  can  do  any  type  work  while  wearing  these 
nails.    No   preparation    like    it. 

MARVEL   KIT,  59* 
DELUXE  JIFFY  KIT,  $1.50 

If  not  available  at  your  favorite 
store,    send    65c     for    $1.65)     to: 

MARVEL  NAILS,  Dept.  MW-io 

5249  W.  Harrison  St.  Chicago  44,  III. 


EXTRA  CACHf 


5  Boxes  of  New  I 

Send  no  money.  Just  give  us  your  name,  and  we'll 
mail  beautiful  money-making  samples  to  you. 
Show  to  friends  and  make  money  in  spare  time.  I 
Keep  up  to  60c  on  easy  $1  sales— up  to  $1.25  cash  I 
profit  per  item.  Get  sample  kit  on  approval.  Bar-  I 
gain  List,  FREE  Personal  Album,  $1.25  Gift  Offer. 
MIDWEST,  1113  Washington,  Dept.5iB-L.St.  Louis  1 ,  Mo. 


Evervbody^oing^ 


WALLET  Size  2V2  x  31/2  on 
PORTRAIT  QUALITY  PAPER 
Just  pennies  per  picture  for 
beautiful  portrait-quality 
reproductions  of  your  own  favorite 
photograph.  Send  one  portrait  or 
snapshot  (returned  unharmed) 
And  money  to: 
WALLET  PHOTOS,  Box  M-27 
Hillside,  N.J. 


In  a  hurry?  Send  25c  extra 
for  Super-Speed  service. 


MONEY  BACK  GUARANTEE 


We  pay  postage! 


People  50  to  80 
Tear  Out  This  Ad 

.  .  .  and  mail  it  today  to  find  out 
how  you  can  still  apply  for  a 
$1,000  life  insurance  policy  to  help 
take  care  of  final  expenses  with- 
out burdening  your  family. 

You  handle  the  entire  transac- 
tion by  mail  with  OLD  AMERI- 
CAN of  KANSAS  CITY.  No  obli- 
gation. No  one  will  call  on  you ! 

Write  today,  simply  giving  your 
name,  address  and  age.  Mail  to 
Old  American  Ins.  Co.,  1  West  9th, 
Dept.  L1061M,  Kansas  City,  Mis- 
souri. 


81 


Makes 

Pavements 

Feel 

Like  Cushions! 


D-'Scholl's 

I  Ball-o-foot 

Cushion 


You  Actually  Walk  On  Air! 

This   modern   miracle  of 
walking  ease— Dr.  Scholl's 
Ball-O-Foot  Cushion  for 
men  and  women— relieves 
pain,  callouses,  burning, ten- 
derness at  ball  of  foot.  The  cushion,  not  you, 
absorbs  shock  of  each  step.  Loops  over  toe 
—no  adhesive.  Flesh  color.  Washable.  Only 
$1  pair.  At  Drug,  Shoe,  Dept.,  5-10fz!  Stores 
and  Dr.  Scholl's  Foot  Comfort®  Shops.  If 
not  obtainable  locally,  send  $1.00  direct  to 
DR.  SCHOLL'S,  Dept.  77B,  Chicago  10,  III. 


82 


SONG  POEMS  WANTED 

To  be  set  to  music.   Send  your  poems  today  lor  free 
examination ! 

J.  CHAS.    McNEIL,    (A.   B.    Master  of   Music) 
510-MG   So.   Alexandria  Los  Angeles  5,   Calif. 


l^HIGH  SCHOOLS 


I  No  classes  to  attend.  Easy  spare-time  train-  I 

ling  covers  big  choice  of  subjects.  Friendly  \ 

\  instructors;  standard  texts.  Full  credit  for\ 

previous  schooling.     Diploma  awarded. \ 

Write  now  for  FREE  catalog  HH-51. 

WAYNE  SCHOOL    otiiiti1sVir.st.)    j 

F  2527  Sheffield  Ave.,  Cnicago  14,  Illinois/ 


SURPRISE  BABY  GIFT 
ONUS' 


Mothers,  Dads,  Aunts,  Uncles, 

Grandparents,  now  you  can  give 

baby  a  terrific  surprise  gift  that  is  practica 

end  useful.  Just  send  $1.00  with  your  name  and 

oddress  to  — 

The  JAYBEE  Co.  ♦  P.  Q.  Box  101  •  Canton,  Ohio 

LOOSE  FALSE  TEETH 

RELINED   AND   TIGHTENED   AT   HOME   $1.00 

NEWLY  IMPROVED  DENDEX  RELINER.  a  plastic, 
builds  up  (refits)  loose  upper  and  lower  dentures. 
Really  makes  them  fit  as  they  should  without  using 
powder.  Easily  applied.  No  heating  required.  Brush 
it  on  and  wear  your  plates  while  it  sets.  It  adheres 
to  the  plates  only  and  makes  a  comfortable,  smooth 
and  durable  surface  that  can  be  washed  and  scrub- 
bed. Each  application  lasts  for  months.  Not  a 
powder  or  wax.  Contains  no  rubber  or  gum  Neutral 

Sink  color.  Sold  on  MONEY-BACK  GUARANTEE.  Not  sold  in  stores.  Proved 
y  15  years  of  Consumer  Use.  Send  $1.00  plus  20c  handling  charm 
(stamps  or  coin).       DENDEX  COMPANY,  DEPT.  77-H 

2024  WEST  SIXTH   ST.,    LOS  ANGELES  S,    CALIF. 


ass 


ENLARGEMENT 

OF  YOUR  FAVORITE  PHOTO  ORNEGATIVE 

Just  to  get  acquainted  we  will 
make  you  a  FREE  professional  silk 
finish  5x7  enlargement  of  your 
favorite  photo  or  negative.  Please 
include  color  of  hair,  eyes  and 
clothing  for  prompt  information 
on  our  bargain  offer  for  having 
your  enlargement  beautifully  hand 
colored  in  oil  and  mounted  in  a 
handsome  frame.  Please-  enclose  25^  for  handling 
and  mailing.  Limit  2.  If  you  do  not  wish  your  en- 
largement hand  colored  a  black  and  white  enlarge- 
ment will  be  mailed  with  your  original.  We  will  pay 
flOO  for  a  photo  selected  bi-monthly  to  be  used  in 
our  advertising.  Offer  is  limited  to  U.S.A.  only. 
Send  your  favorite  photos  or  negatives  today! 
HOLLYWOOD  FILM  STUDIOS,  Dept.  E-21 
7021     Santa    Monica    Blvd.,    Hollywood    38,    Calif 


THIS  photo 
DECEIVED  S100 


and  gratefully,  "in  every  way  there  is.  In 
the  theater  and  on  radio  and  TV,  I've 
worked  with  really  great  actors.  And  I 
couldn't  have  learned  anything  like  as 
much  if  I'd  gone  for  years  to  the  greatest 
dramatic  school  in  the  country.  I  learned 
the  tools  of  my  trade,  and  a  respect  for 
my  trade,  from  all  of  them.  Lots  of  actors 
have  a  tendency  not  to  respect  an  audi- 
ence. I  will  never  have  that  tendency. 
The  Lunts  drilled  it  into  me  that  an  audi- 
ence pays  their  money  and  must  get  their 
money's  worth. 

"But  I  think  the  most  important  thing 
I  learned  from  Mr.  Lunt  is  that  you  have 
to  know  when  you  are  happy.  Mr.  Lunt 
didn't  say  that,"  Dick  explains,  "not  in  so 
many  words.  He  was  talking  about  acting 
one  day  and  he  said  'When  an  actor  gets 
a  laugh,  he  should  leave  it  alone,  know 
when  it's  just  right,  not  try  to  do  it  bet- 
ter.'   It  amounts  to  the  same  thing. 

"A  lot  of  people  think  I'm  foolish,"  Dick 
said,  "to  have  stayed  with  the  Mama  show 
for  as  long  as  I  have,  they  think  I  should 
have  gone  to  Hollywood,  should  have  gone 
further  than  I  have.  But  I  never  really 
wanted  to  be  a  star.  Right  after  I  opened 
with  the  Lunts  in  'O  Mistress  Mine,'  three 
Hollywood  contracts  were  offered  me.  Miss 
Fontanne  advised  me  against  going  to 
Hollywood.  'I'm  telling  you  this  as  a 
friend,'  she  said.    'I  think  you'd  do  better 


to  stay  with  us.  In  Hollywood,  you'll  be 
one  of  many.  You  may  stay  six  months. 
There  is  no  way*  of  knowing.  If  you  re- 
main with  us,  you  will  be  a  solid  actor  by 
the  time  the  play  closes.  My  advice  is  to 
stay  here.' 

"I  took  Miss  Fontanne's  advice  and  I'm 
glad  I  did.  I'd  rather  be  a  solid  actor  than 
a  shaky  star.  I've  always  had  a  great  re- 
spect for  actors  who  are  solid — people  like 
Jessie  Royce  Landis,  for  instance,  and  Dor- 
othy Stickney.  They  work  all  the  time,  all 
the  time.  They  have  all  the  glory  of  the 
theater,  yet  they  have  their  own  life,  too, 
not  recognized  by  everybody,  not  always 
in  the  limelight. 

"I  like  it  this  way,"  says  Dick,  "in  radio, 
on  television,  in  the  theater.  My  most  re- 
cent stage  credits  are  'Mr.  Roberts'  and 
'The  Male  Animal.'  And,  although  I'm 
hoping  for  another  play  soon,  I  don't  worry 
about  it — for,  in  between  Broadway  shows, 
ABC  and  CBS  keep  me  busy. 

"You  have  to  know  when  you  are 
happy,"  Dick  repeats,  "and  I  do  know 
when  I  am.  I  am  happy  now.  Right  now. 
Completely  happy.  And  I  intend,"  he 
adds,  with  his  bright  smile,  "to  leave  it 
alone." 

So  continues  the  happiest  story  of  the 
month.  The  story  of  a  delightful  young 
man  for  whom,  deservedly,  every  dream — 
from  childhood  on — has  come  true. 


Young  Woman  of  Today 


(Continued  from  page  26) 
Tom  over  to  be  introduced,  explaining  that, 
on  the  following  Tuesday,  Tom  was  going 
to  be  interviewed  by  Dave  Garroway  on 
the  show,  about  his  book  and  his  war 
experiences  as  a  commander  of  guerrilla 
troops  in  Burma  during  World  War  II. 
Helen  looked  interested,  said  that  should 
be  exciting  to  listen  to.  The  men  sat  down 
with  the  girls,  the  lunch  for  three  became 
a  fivesome,  and  two  of  the  five  very  quick- 
ly became  less  and  less  aware  of  the 
three  others! 

Tom  had  come  to  New  York  from  his 
house  in  Sarasota,  Florida,  and  was  plan- 
ning to  leave  quickly  for  Mexico  City  and 
Taxco  after  keeping  some  engagements 
and  clearing  up  some  business  details. 
Movie  rights  to  his  book  had  been  sold 
to  M-G-M  for  the  second-highest  sum  ever 
paid  for  an  original  novel.  The  book  itself 
was  now  being  published  in  France  and 
Italy,  as  well  as  this  country,  and  there 
were  arrangements  being  made  for  Eng- 
land, Spain  and  other  foreign  editions. 

Helen  was  busy  with  her  job  on  Today 
and  her  plans  for  the  summer  NBC -TV 
Helen  O'Connell  Show,  her  own  fifteen- 
minute,  twice-weekly  program  of  songs 
and  talk.  She  had  her  busy  life  of  work, 
her  home  on  Long  Island,  her  three  in- 
teresting schoolgirl  daughters,  her  friends. 
Her  life  seemed  full  and  happy  and,  at  the 
moment,  marrying  again  had  no  part  in 
her  plans. 

And  so  they  met — the  intense -looking, 
very  dark  and  serious  man,  and  the  slim 
blond  girl  with  the  quick  sunny  smile. 
And  as  they  talked,  and  looked  at  each 
other  across  the  table,  destiny  took  over. 
Only  the  touch  was  deceivingly  light,  and 
they  scarcely  knew  what  was  happening. 

"Except  that  I  tried  to  get  close  to  Helen 
the  first  day  I  met  her,  but  all  those 
people  she  worked  with  formed  a  kind  of 
protective  blockade  around  her,"  Tom  says 
today.  "Oh,  they  didn't.  You  know  they 
didn't,"  she  laughs  at  him.  "We  had  lunch 
together  the  day  you  came  on  the  show, 
and  were  going  to  see  each  other  later — 
except  that  my  littlest,  Jennie,  developed 
a  temperature  and  I  had  to  take  her  home 
from    school.      But    we    had    lunch    and 


i 


dinner  the  next  day,  and  then  the  next. 
That's  when  we  decided  to  get  married." 

"That's  when  you  proposed  to  me,"  he 
grins. 

"It's  what  he  told  the  children,"  she  ex- 
plains. "They  just  giggled  and  said 
'Mother  wouldn't  do  that.'  When  I  broke 
the  news  that  Tom  and  I  were  going  to 
get  married,  they  made  Tom  propose  to 
me  all  over  again,  in  front  of  them." 

"Five  times — and  each  time  on  my 
knees,"  says  Tom,  adding,  "according  to 
the  way  it's  done  in  books,  or  in  the 
romantic  minds  of  little  girls." 

"Jennie,  my  youngest,  insisted  that  I  say 
'Yes'  almost  before  Tom  got  the  words 
out,"  Helen  laughs.  "And  this  was  all 
staged  in  Joannie's  bedroom — she's  the 
middle  one — because  she  had  the  measles 
and  was  in  bed  at  the  time.  Fortunately, 
no  one  else  caught  it!" 

"When  I  kissed  Helen  lightly  on  the 
cheek,  after  her  'Yes,'  Joannie  reached 
over  and  pulled  my  ear  close  and  whis- 
pered, 'Kiss  her  on  the  lips!'  " 

The  wedding  was  a  simple  affair,  at  the 
St.  Moritz  Hotel  in  New  York.  Helen  did 
her  usual  stint  on  the  Today  show  that 
morning.  She  got  the  next  day  off,  and 
the  next  two  days  were  Saturday  and 
Sunday,  but  she  had  to  be  back  Monday 
morning.  Tom's  best  man  was  James 
Jones,  his  close  friend  and  literary  "men- 
tor," author  of  "From  Here  to  Eternity." 
Tom  had  written  his  book  at  the  same 
writers'  colony — the  Handy  Colony  at 
Marshall,  Illinois,  where  Jim  had  pre- 
viously worked,  a  camp-colony  dedicated 
to  helping  serious  young  writers  of  realis- 
tic material,  giving  them  a  place  to  work 
and  freedom  to  work. 

"Jim  Jones  and  I  had  both  been  through 
a  great  deal,"  says  Tom  Chamales.  "We 
had  seen  the  hard  things  of  life,  the  war. 
the  misery  and  pain.  We  still  saw  plenty 
of  it  around  us.  Jim  had  recently  been 
married,  and  now  he  was  telling  me  not 
to  be  afraid  of  any  of  this  new  happiness 
that  had  come  to  him  and  to  me.  'It's  all 
right  to  be  happy.  No  one  is  going  to  hold 
it  against  you,'  he  kept  saying,  and  it 
broke  some  of  the  tension  for  me. 

"The    way    he    handled    everything,    he 


must  have  looked  up  Emily  Post  on  how 
to  be  the  best  best  man,"  says  Tom,  "be- 
cause ordinarily  he  isn't  the  kind  of  guy 
who  would  care  about  such  things.  He 
wouldn't  let  the  ^bellboy  carry  our  bags 
to  the  car.  He  answered  the  phones  him- 
self.   He  did  everything." 

Alta  Mooney,  wife  of  Helen's  musical 
arranger,  was  matron  of  honor.  Tom's 
father  and  Helen's  mother  came  for  the 
ceremony,  and  there  were  a  few  close 
friends,  including  Frank  Blair  and  others 
from  the  Today  show.  Dave  Garroway 
broke  away  from  a  Wide.  Wide  World  re- 
hearsal in  time  for  the  reception. 

The  bride  wore  a  navy-blue  silk  sheath 
dress  with  a  little  jacket,  navy  satin  sling 
pumps,  a  pink  flower-trimmed  hat  and 
pink  gloves,  and  carried  a  bouquet  of 
pink  flowers.  The  bouffant  pink  dresses 
of  the  three  girls  quivered  with  the  ex- 
citement of  their  wearers  at  acquiring  this 
fascinating    new    member    of    the    family. 

Equally  entranced  by  this  trio  of  daugh- 
ters, Tom  was  already  calling  them  "Sarah 
Bernhardt" — all  three  of  them! — although 
their  greatest  interests  still  are  in  their 
school  grades  and  social  activities  with 
their  friends,  and  the  house  on  Long  Island 
has  spilled  over  with  their  comings  and 
goings  all  summer  long.  Now  they  are  all 
moving  into  a  seven-room  New  York 
apartment,  and  everyone  is  busy  deciding 
on  color  schemes,  what  will  go  with  what, 
who  gets  which  for  her  room,  and  where 
each  precious  possession  should  be  put. 
Helen  still  owns  the  home  in  California 
where  she  lived  with  the  children  until  the 
Today  show  brought  her  to  the  East  Coast, 
and  Tom  still  has  his  house  in  Florida. 

"I  like  antiques,"  Helen  says,  "but  not 
the  kitchen  furniture  kind.  I  love  the 
fine  old  woods,  the  expert  craftsmanship. 
Tom  had  collected  some  beautiful  things 
during  his  travels  all  over  the  world,  but 
has  very  little  left.  He  gave  them  up,  be- 
cause things  began  to  get  bigger  and  big- 
ger, until  they  owned  him,  instead  of  his 
owning  them.  He  gave  most  of  them  away, 
before  we  ever  met." 

As  a  child,  Helen  lived  in  Lima,  Ohio, 
and  she  started  a  career  as  a  dancing 
teacher.  "Singing  was  never  a  planned 
thing,  as  far  as  I  was  concerned.  Neither 
was  going  into  show  business.  It  was  my 
older  sister,  Alice,  who  became  a  singer, 
and  I  would  replace  her  sometimes  when 
she  couldn't  keep  a  professional  date.  Our 
father  died  early,  and  all  of  us  did  what 
we  could  to  help  along,  and  gradually  I 
drifted  into  more  and  more  singing.  Alice 
was  going  with  a  fine  pianist-  and  organist 
— to  whom  she  is  now  married.  He  was 
musical  director  of  a  Toledo  radio  station, 
and  he  was  the  first  person  to  put  me  on 
radio.  We  girls  performed  throughout  the 
Toledo  area,  yet  neither  of  us  had  ever 
really  studied  music.  We  were  just  a 
family  who  loved  it,  and  I  can't  remember 
a  time  when  there  wasn't  a  radio  going 
in  the  background,  or  a  record  playing 
somewhere  in  the  house." 

Alice  gave  up  her  professional  work 
after  a  while,  in  favor  of  home  and  family, 
and  Helen  went  on  to  become  a  band 
singer.  Later,  after  she  too,  married,  she 
quit  the  business  for  seven  years,  devot- 
ing her  time  to  the  home  and  the  children. 
When  her  marriage  ended,  and  she  had 
to  go  back  to  work,  she  returned  to  sing- 
ing.    That  was  in  1950. 

In  her  background  now  are  four  years 
as  featured  vocalist  with  the  late  Jimmy 
Dorsey,  who  heard  her  sing  in  a  night  club 
and  signed  her  at  once.  With  Bob  Eberly, 
she  did  a  series  of  boy-girl  recordings 
while  she  was.  still  in  her  teens,  great 
hits  like  "Green  Eyes,"  "Tangerine," 
"Amapola."  She  went  on  the  Australian 
tour  with  Johnnie  Ray,  she  has  done  many 
night-club    dates    in    many    cities,    had    a 


year  of  touring  with  Martin  and  Lewis, 
with  Vic  Damone.  During  her  last  year 
of  travel,  she  figured  she  had  been  away 
from  the  children  ten  months  out  of  the 
twelve,  and  she  wasn't  happy  about  it, 
even  though  she  had  left  them  in  com- 
petent care. 

"Last  summer,  the  summer  of  1956," 
she  recalls,  "I  did  the  Russ  Morgan  show. 
I  did  filmed  and  live  commercials,  and 
someone  from  NBC  took  note  of  them  and 
I  was  approached  about  going  on  the  To- 
day show.  That  was  when  I  was  working 
from  the  West  Coast  and  had  developed 
a  little  interview  program  of  my  own,  as 
well.  My  home  was  established  in  Cali- 
fornia, the  children  were  happy  there,  and 
I  wondered  if  it  would  be  wise  to  move 
us.  Then  I  began  to  think  how  much 
time  I  was  spending  away  from  my  girls, 
how  tired  I  was  getting  of  the  constant 
travel,  and  how  much  more  fun  we  could 
have  as  a  family  if  I  could  stay  in  one 
place  for   any  length  of  time. 

Her  first  day  on  Today  was  December 
7,  1956,  and  the  broadcast  had  been  moved 
down  to  Florida  for  a  week.  Helen  did 
the  show  three  days  from  the  Miami 
Beach — Palm  Beach — Fort  Lauderdale  area 
under  the  unusual  conditions  of  doing  a 
remote.  But  the  three-day  trial  convinced 
her  she  would  like  it  even  more  under 
the  usual  studio  conditions,  and  it  evident- 
ly convinced  the  NBC  brass  that  there  was 
no  doubt  of  her  being  the  girl  for  the 
part.  So,  children  and  luggage  and  house- 
hold paraphernalia  were  all  moved  East, 
and  the  family  has  been  together  ever 
since. 

She  likes  the  variety  of  things  she  can 
do  on  Today.  Everything  from  songs  to 
weather  reports,  from  interviews  to  com- 
mercials. Helping  Garroway  introduce  the 
recordings.  Ad-libbing  with  him  to  fill  a 
few  seconds.  Having  a  hand  in  every- 
thing that  goes  on.  And  she  thinks  her 
training  as  a  band  singer  has  had  every- 
thing to  do  with  the  ease  with  which  she 
now  does  all  these  other  things. 

"The  girl  who  sings  with  a  band  gets 
great  experience,"  says  Helen.  "She  plays 
night  clubs,  intimate  and  big  rooms,  hotel 
dining  rooms,  theaters.  She  performs  for 
all  types  of  people.  She  makes  records, 
does  radio  and  now  television  also.  She 
learns  to  follow  a  script  and  she  also  learns 
to  ad-lib  when  occasion  demands.  She 
meets  many  different  people  of  all  ages 
and  backgrounds,  and  she  gets  a  chance 
to  travel.  I  believe  that  any  girl  who 
does  band  singing  over  a  period  of  time  is 
ready  for  almost  any  other  branch  of 
show  business." 

Helen's  own  taste  in  songs  runs  to  those 
with  good  lyrics,  songs  that  tell  a  story, 
no  matter  what  the  tempo.  She  was  known 
mostly  for  her  rhythm  numbers  when  she 
did  shows  with  Bob  Eberly,  because  he 
handled  the  ballads.  On  her  own  Helen 
O'Connell  Show,  this  summer,  she  has 
done  all  types  of  things.  Tom  and  the 
girls  like  anything  Helen  sings,  although 
each  has  special  favorites.  "That's  the 
great  thing  about  the  girls,"  Tom  observes. 
"Each  has  her  own  individual  ideas  and 
tastes.  Each  is  completely  an  individual. 
Helen  has  told  me  she  was  worried  in  the 
past  because  she  couldn't  be  with  her 
children  all  the  time,  but  the  marvelous 
thing  has  happened  that  not  one  of  the 
girls  is  molded  in  Helen's  image,  or  in 
the  image  of  the  others.  Each  has  some- 
thing of  Helen,  some  of  her  traits,  but 
none  has  all  of  them.  It's  a  very  refresh- 
ing thing  to  find  three  such  distinct  in- 
dividuals." 

Helen  laughs  at  this,  says,  "Tom  took 
on,  not  one,  but  four  different  person- 
alities to  get  used  to,  when  he  married  me. 
Myself,   and   each   one   of  my   daughters." 


StND  TOD  AT 

for 

TRIAL  SIZt 

NO  DELAY— 
your  trial  order 
shipped  in  2* 


PERMANENT  DARKENER  &/X 
FOR  LASHES  AND  BROWS  ^ 

•  NOT  AN  ANAUNB  DYEI 

•  I  APPLICATION  LASTS  4  to  5  WEEKSI 

Takes  just  seconds  to  apply ...  stays  on  4  to 
5  weeksl  "Dark-Eyes"  is  the  perfect  way  to 
make  eyelashes  and  brows  completely  natural 
looking .  ..and  it  will  not  harden  or  break 
theml  "Dark-Eyes"  is  NOT  A  MASCARAI 
Will_not  stick  to  eyelash   curler.    Eliminates 

the    bother    of    daily    eye    make-up. 

It   is   PERMANENT,   SWIMPROOF, 

SMUDGEPROOF,  TEARPROOF,  and 

SMEARPROOFI 

$1.25  (plus  tax)  at  leading  drug, 
dept.  and  variety  chain  stores. 


"DARK-EYES"  COMPANY,  Dept.  P-107 
3319  W.  Carroll  Ave.,  Chicago  24,  III. 

I   enclose   25c  (coin  or  stamps— tax  included)  for 
TRIAL  SIZE  pkg.  of  "Dark-Eyes"  with  directions. 

check  shade:  Q  Light  Brown  □  Brown  □  Black 

Name 

Address 

Town 


_State_ 


SONGWRITERS 

TO  THE  WRITER  OF  BEST  SONG  SELECTED   EACH  MONTH 


Send  longs,  poems. Re  cords,  copies  furnished. Let  us  help  you  be  a  succej*. 

TJT  HOLLYWOOD  TUNESMITHS  «»™!» 'J »■'? ^ 


*I00.00 


clothes? 
money? 
love? 


© 

1957 


[fi 


Rush  10c  today  for  huge  32-page  catalog  of 
fabulous  Hollywood  glamour-  fash  ions  designed 
for  male  appeal!  Free  credit  plan  lets  you  order 
a  complete  pin-up  wardrobe  in  lingerie,  play- 
clothes,  separates,  coats,  shoes  and  date  dresses. 
Each   is  a  money-saving  man-getter ...  so   HURRY! 


,  Send  25*  for  one  year  subscription 
T'fiHflri.Ok  C    1430  N.  Cahuenga  Blvd.      Dept 
jEn33nca£_   Hollywood  28,  California     9690 


WAKE  UP 
RARIN'  TO  GO 

Without  Nagging  Backache 

Now !  You  can  get  the  fast  relief  you  need  from 
nagging  backache,  headache  and  muscular  ache3 
and  pains  that  often  cause  restless  nights  and  mis- 
erable tired-out  feelings.  When  these  discomforts 
come  on  with  over-exertion  or  stress  and  strain  — 
you  want  relief— want  it  fast !  Another  disturbance 
may  be  mild  bladder  irritation  following  wrong 
food  and  drink  — often  setting  up  a  restless  un- 
comfortable feeling. 

For  quick  relief  get  Doan's  Pills.  They  work  fast 
in  3  separate  ways:  1.  by  speedy  pain-relieving  ac- 
tion to  ease  torment  of  nagging  backache,  head- 
aches, muscular  aches  and  pains.  2.  by  their  sooth- 
ing effect  on  bladder  irritation.  3.  by  their  mild 
diuretic  action  tending  to  increase  output  of  the  15 
miles  of  kidney  tubes. 

Find  out  how  quickly  this  3-way  medicine  goes  to 
work.  Enjoy  a  good  night's  sleep  and  the  same  happy 
relief  millions  have  for  over  GO  years.  Ask  for  new, 
large  size  and  save  money.  Get  Doan's  Pills  today  1 


83 


YOU'D  NEVER  KNOW  I  HAD 

ii.-M.-jmn 


For  24  years  psoriasis  suffer-  ... 
ers  have   learned   that   Siroil 
tends    to    remove     unsightly 
external  crusts  and  scales.  If 
lesions    recur,    light    applica- 
tions  of  Siroil  help   control 
them.    Siroil   won't   stain 
clothing    or    bed    linens. 
Offered  on   2 -weeks-satis- 
faction -  or  -  money  -  refund 
ed  basis. 

write  for  NEW  FREE 
BOOKLET,  written  by 
REGISTEREDPHYSICIAN. 

It  answers  30  most-asked 
questions  about  psoriasis. 


"TKcttfaUb  t* 


SIROIL 


AT  ALL 

DRUG 

'STORES 


j~  SIROIL  LABORATORIES,  INC. 

Dept.M-89  Santa  Monica,  Callt. 

I  Please  send  me  your  new  free  booklet  on  PSORIASIS.  ■ 

I  NAME _ ___ • 

Please  Print         I 
j  ADDRESS 1 

•  CITY STATE J 


pnCMC  WANTED 

^^M  ■■IwlU  I7'"1'  ■    ■    •    Send 

m         ^^   ^™  m  "  m  ^^  vour    Poems     today     for     FREE 
EXAMINATION:      Any     subject.      Immediate     consideration. 

Five  Star  Music  Masters,  265  Beacon  Bldg.,  Boston,  Mass. 


money 


can  be  yours  for  help- 
ing us  take  orders  for 
magazine  subscriptions. 

Write  for  FREE  information.  No  obligation. 

Mocfadden  Publications,  205Eost42St.. N.Y.I  7. N.Y. 


If  you  are  the  talented  author 
of  an  unpublished  manuscript, 
let  us  help  gain  the  recognition 
you  deserve.  We  will  publish 
your  BOOK— we  will  edit,  design, 
print,  promote,  advertise  and 
sell  itl  Good  royalties. 

Write  for  FREE  copy  of 

How  To  Publish  Your  Book 

COMET  PRESS  BOOKS,  Dept.  GT10 

200  Varick  St..  N.  Y.  14 


AUTHORS: 

TALENT 
GOING 

TO 
WASTE? 


LEG   SUFFERERS 

Why  continue  to  suffer  without  attempt- 
ing to  do  something?  Write  today  lor  New 
Booklet — "THE  LIEPE  METHODS  FOB 
HOME  USE."  It  tells  about  Varicose 
Ulcers  and  Open  Leg  Sores.  Liepe  Methods 
used  while  you  walk.  More  than  60  years  of 
success.  Praised  and  en-| 
dorsed  by  multitudes. 
LIEPE  METHODS,  3250  N.  Green  Bay  Ave.,] 
Dept.  k-25     Milwaukee  12,  Wisconsin! 


FREE 

BOOKLET 


TROUBLED 
WITH 

UNWANTED 
HAIR? 


JUOYIDWCE  15, 1. 1. 


|  You   needn't   be!   Now  you    con 

emove    unwanted    hair    forever 

I  —  in  the  privacy  of  your  home 

-ith  the  famous  Mahler  Hair 

I  Removal     Epilator!    Acclaimed 

by    thousands    of    women    who 

|  have    discovered    how    Mahler 

estroys   the   hair    root    perma- 

sntlyl  By  following  our  rnstruc- 

you,  too,  can  learn  to  use 

j^the    Mahler   safely   and   effi- 

i  ciently!  Positive  money-back 

aranteel  Act  today! 

Send  5$  for  illustrated  16-page  M 
booklet   "New  Radiant  Beauty"!   / 


84 


EAT  ANYTHING 
WITH  FALSE  TEETH 

Trouble  with  plates  that  slip,  rock 
and  cause  sore  gums — try  Brimms 
Plasti-Liner.  One  application  makes 
plates  fit  snugly  without  powder, paste, 
or  cushions,  because  Brimms  Plasti- 
Liner  hardens  permanently  to  your 
plate.  It  relines  and  refits  loose  plates 
in  a  way  no  powder,  paste,  or  cushion  can  do.  No 
need  to  pass  up  your  favorite  foods.  With  plates  held 
firmly  by  Plasti-Liner,  YOU  CAN  eat  ANYTHING! 
Simply  lay  soft  strip  of  Plasti-Liner  on  troublesome 
upper  or  lower.  Bite  and  it  molds  perfectly.  Easy 
to  use,  tasteless,  odorless,  harmless  to  you  and  your 
plates.  Removable  as  directed.  Money  back  guaran- 
tee. At  your  drug  counter.  $  1.50  for  one  plate,  $2.50 
for  two  plates.  Plasti-Liner  Inc.,  Dept.RR;  1075 
Main  St.,  Buffalo  9,  N.  Y. 


BRIMMS   PLASTI-LINER 

THE   PERMANENT   DENTURE   RELINER 


He-Man's  Holiday 


(Continued  from  page  48) 

"Taking  a  vacation." 

"That's  the  idea,  old  boy.  Nothing  like 
the  Islands  for  a  good  rest."  He  looked 
around.  "Where's  Virginia?" 

"Home." 

"You  mean  at  the  hotel?" 

"No.  Home.  In  Los  Angeles." 

His  friend's  expression  became  very 
sober.  "I  understand,"  he  said.  But  he 
didn't  understand  at  all. 

Jim  had  been  in  the  Hawaiians  for  two 
weeks — living  in  a  small  shack  right  on 
the  beach,  fifty-some  miles  from  Honolulu, 
cooking  his  own  meals,  reading,  loafing, 
swimming  and  surfing.  The  place  was  so 
isolated  that,  when  Virginia  Arness  tried 
to  let  him  know  he'd  been  nominated  for 
an  Academy  "Emmy,"  it  took  her  three 
days  to  get  hold  of  him — by  way  of  a 
friend  on  the  other  side  of  the  island  who 
had  to  drive  four  hours  to  reach  Jim! 

JNow,  as  Jim  continued  along  Kalakaua 
Avenue,  he  couldn't  suppress  a  smile. 
Who  would  ever  believe  that  these  "vaca- 
tions from  marriage"  have  done  more  to 
keep  him  and  Virginia  together  than  all 
the  dresses,  jewelry,  and  cars  he  could 
buy  her? 

He  thought  back  to  the  day  they  got 
engaged.  He  hadn't  wanted  to  get  married. 
Virginia  knew  it.  She  also  knew  what  was 
bothering  him.  Most  men  have  pangs  of 
uneasiness  at  the  thought  of  being  tied 
down,  no  matter  how  much  they're  in  love. 

This  held  even  more  true  for  Jim  who 
was  used  to  bumming  around  since  he 
first  ran  away  from  home  at  fourteen.  He'd 
awakened  at  five,  one  Saturday  morning, 
with  a  sudden  urge  to  wander  off.  Didn't 
matter  that  it  was  ten  below  freezing,  the 
snow  three  feet  deep,  his  total  cash  less 
than  a  dollar. 

Jim  got  dressed,  wrapped  a  few  necessi- 
ties into  a  bundle,  then  sneaked  out  of 
the  house  to  the  highway  leading  out  of 
town.  It  was  barely  daylight  when  the 
first  car  came  by.  A  burly  truck  driver 
rolled  down  the  window  and  leaned  out  of 
the  cab.  "Where  'ya  goin',  son?" 

"Where  are  you  going?"  Jim  came  back. 

"Headin'  for  Des  Moines." 

"So  am  I  .  .  ." 

When  the  truck  driver  had  said  "headin' 
for  Des  Moines,"  he  meant  just  that.  Not 
getting  there.  At  dusk,  and  still  seventy- 
five  miles  out  of  the  city,  he  stopped  at 
a  deserted  junction  to  let  Jim  off.  "I'm 
livin'  a  few  miles  down  the  dirt  road," 
he  explained. 

Unable  to  get  another  ride,  Jim  walked 
to  the  nearest  railroad  tracks  and  followed 
them  till  he  came  to  a  siding,  where  he 
found  three  boxcars.  He  climbed  into  the 
firsts — and  faced  three  railroad  bums  who 
threw  him  right  out  again.  An  hour  later, 
he  did  manage  to  get  a  ride  on  a  coal 
tender.  And  at  four  the  next  morning — 
cold,  hungry,  and  exhausted — he  called  his 
family  from  Des  Moines. 

"You  got  there  on  your  own,"  his  father 
snapped.   "You  get  back  the   same  way." 

When  he  walked  into  the  house,  his 
mother  exclaimed  that  he'd  grow  up  into  a 
delinquent.  His  father — now  that  Jim  was 
safe — wished  he  could  have  gone  along. 
And  Jim,  undaunted  by  the  experience, 
kept  taking  off  again,  year  after  year. 
Hitching  rides,  sleeping  in  the  fields,  bum- 
ming freights,  working  on  steamships, 
loving  his  freedom,  hating  to  be  tied  down. 

Virginia  knew  all  about  it  when  they 
got  married  on  Valentine's  Day,  back  in 
1949.  That's  why  she  was  convinced  that 
the  best,  the  only  way  to  hold  on  to  Jim 
was  to  give  him  enough  freedom  to  keep 
him  from  feeling  imprisoned. 


His  restlessness  became  obvious  about 
four  months  after  they  were  married.  Jim 
was  working  as  a  real-estate  man,  a  task 
that  nearly  drove  him  out  of  his  mind. 
All  day  long,  he  was  sitting  in  a  sparsely 
furnished  office  or  an  empty  home.  In  six 
months,  he  didn't  sell  a  single  piece  of 
property!  They  spent  their  evenings  in 
the  tiny  apartment  above  the  china  shop 
of  Virginia's  father,  in  which  she  worked 
during  the  day  to  help  pay  for  the 
groceries.  The  world  was  beginning  to 
crowd  Jim. 

One  evening,  he  came  home  restless, 
fidgety,  on  edge.  He  kept  pacing  through 
the  living  room  as  though  it  were  a 
prison  cell,  but  didn't  complain. 

"You  need  to  spend  some  time  at  the 
beach,"  Virginia  suggested.  Before  they 
were  married  he'd  spent  practically  all 
his  time  at  the  surf. 

"You  know  we  can't  leave  now.  Nobody 
would  miss  me  at  the  office,  but  you  .  .  ." 

"I  didn't  say  we,"  she  cut  in.  "I  said 
you  need  a  change  .  .  ." 

The  next  morning,  Jim  loaded  a  sleep- 
ing bag,  portable  stove,  extra  clothes  and 
a  few  cans  of  food  into  his  rattley  old 
Buick  sedan,  tied  his  surfboard  on  top, 
and  took  off  for  San  Onofre  Beach  near 
San  Clemente,  two  hours  south  of  Los 
Angeles.  When  he  came  back  four  days 
later,  he  was  a  changed  person. 

There  is  no  set  frequency  for  these  ex- 
cursions. Seldom — as  in  the  case  of  his 
Hawaiian  jaunt — any  pre-planning.  When 
he  reaches  the  point  where  pressure  builds 
up  to  where  he  "has  to  get  away,"  he 
leaves,  and  his  family  understands.  In  re- 
cent years,  in  fact,  Jim  has  begun  to  take 
his  oldest  son  with  him,  as  he  did  on  his 
Hawaiian  jaunt. 

In  a  way,  Jim's  case  is  no  different  from 
that  of  most  husbands.  In  other  ways,  it  is. 
Not  just  because  of  his  personality,  but 
because  of  his  work  as  well.  He  gets  rest- 
less during  long  periods  of  lay-offs  and  in- 
activity. He  gets  tense  when  work  piles 
up  faster  that  he  can  handle  it. 

Like  a  few  weeks  ago,  when  he  came 
home  with  a  particularly  difficult  script. 
He  sank  back  on  the  living-room  couch, 
slipped  off  his  shoes,  and  started  to  read 
his  lines.  Before  he  reached  the  third  page, 
Virginia  asked  him  what  he  wanted  for 
dinner,  if  he'd  like  to  attend  a  party  the 
following  Saturday,  and  could  she  please 
buy  a  new  dress  at  Bullock's  Westwood. 
Craig  needed  help  with  his  schoolwork, 
Jenny  Lee  needed  a  dress  hooked  up,  and 
Rolf's  bicycle  had  a  flat  tire  to  be  fixed. 

Unable  to  concentrate,  Jim  went  to  his 
bedroom,  closed  the  door  and  continued 
to  read  his  fines.  Five  minutes  later,  a 
rubber-tipped  arrow  flew  through  the 
window  and  hit  the  tip  of  his  nose.  Jim 
let  out  a  bellow  that  could  be  heard  a 
block  away,  picked  up  his  script,  got  into 
his  car,  and  drove  to  a  lonely  knoll  in  the 
Malibu  mountains,  overlooking  the  Pa- 
cific. There  he  studied  his  part  till  it  was 
too  dark  to  go  on. 

Lack  of  privacy  in  a  home  that  is  really 
too  small  for  his  purposes — he's  now  plan- 
ning to  add  on  three  rooms — is  one  of 
the  reasons  that  Jim  reaches  the  breaking 
point  faster  than  some  men.  He  needs 
time  by  himself  to  study,  to  think,  even 
to  loaf.  "Everybody  does,"  he  explained 
to  a  friend  one  day.  "Well,  what  about 
Virginia?"  the  other  man  asked.  "Don't 
you  think  a  housewife  is  entitled  to  a 
break,  as  well,  once  in  a  while?" 

Sure  he  knew.  But  Virginia  hadn't 
agreed — till  he  literally  forced  the  idea  on 
her!  It  happened  a  couple  of  years  ago. 
Exhausted  from  a  more-than-usually  hec- 


tic  Christmas  rush,  she  was  beginning  to 
show  the  strain  of  the  holiday  season.  She 
grew  irritable,  looked  tired,  felt  worse. 

"You  need  a  vacation,"  Jim  suggested 
on  New  Year's  Day.    "By  yourself." 

'That's  ridiculous.    I  can't  go  away  .  .  ." 
"I  did." 

"That's  different.  Where  would  I  go? 
-low  would  you  get  along?  And  who 
would  look  after  the  children?  Their  va- 
cation isn't  over  for  another  week  .  .  ." 

"You   can   go   to  Palm   Springs   and   we 
can  manage  very  well." 
"But,  Jim  .  .  ." 

He  wouldn't  listen.  Instead,  he  called 
i  friend  in  Palm  Springs.  "Virginia  is 
:oming  to  town  tomorrow  morning.  Find 
ler  a  nice  place  to  stay,  will  you?  No, 
she's  going  to  be  by  herself.  No,  we  did 
%ot  have  a  fight!" 

The  more  she  thought  about  it,  the  less 
she  liked  the  idea.  And  finally  she  broke 
down  and  cried.  .  .  .  Jim  walked  over,  sat 
>eside  her  on  the  couch,  and  gently  lifted 
up  her  chin,  which  she'd  buried  in  the 
alms  of  her  hands.  "If  you  weren't  tired, 
darling,  you  wouldn't  be  crying.  This  isn't 
like  you  .  .  ." 

Reluctantly,  she  gave  in.  The  next 
morning  she  flew  to  the  desert  resort.  She 
rediscovered  the  pleasure  of  being  alone, 
of  having  time  for  herself,  of  reading,  of 
doing  nothing.  The  day  after  she  arrived, 
she  felt  better,  more  relaxed,  than  she  had 
n  weeks.  But,  on  the  evening  of  her 
econd  night  away  from  home,  her  con- 
cience  started  to  bother  her  again.  She 
called  Jim  to  say  she  wanted  to  go  home. 
Jim  later  admitted  that  a  man  doesn't 
really  have  the  slightest  idea  what  a  wife 
s  up  against  all  day  long— till  he  finds  out 
>y  experience.  The  first  day,  father  and 
children  had  a  ball.  They  went  to  the 
jeach,  had  hot  dogs  and  Cokes,  went  to 
he  amusement  park  in  the  afternoon,  to 
he  movies  at  night.  They  sank  into  bed 
exhausted  by  ten-thirty,  with  Jim  being 
more  tired  than  the  three  others  com- 
dned.  The  second  day  proved  more 
difficult.  It  started  when  Rolf  couldn't 
d  his  levis,  and  all  four  of  them  spent 
an  hour  looking  for  the  pants  till  they 
inally  located  them  in  the  dryer. 

xV.eeping  house,  the  children  busy — and 
out  of  trouble — proved  progressively  more 
difficult  as  the  days  went  by:  Jim  had  to 
do  his  own  shopping.  Since  he  wasn't 
used  to  it,  and  not  well  organized  in  the 
first  place,  he  ,always  made  at  least  one, 
usually  two  extra  trips.  Cooking,  always 
a  hobby  of  his,  was  fun.  But  his  dislike 
for  dishes  was  evident  in  the  pile  of 
dishes  stacked  up  on  the  sink.  He  asked 
for  volunteers.  No  offer  was  forthcom- 
ing. He  tried  to  bribe  them  with  an  extra 
allowance.  No  luck.  Finally,  he  ordered 
Craig  and  Jenny  Lee  to  dry  dishes  after 
he'd  washed  them.  Result:  they  broke 
so  many  that  he  couldn't  afford  to  let 
them  finish. 

The  night  Virginia  called,  the  house  was 
a  beehive  of  activity.  Only  the  organiza- 
tion was  lacking!  Rolf  was  yelling  in  the 
bathtub  that  he  had  soap  in  his  eyes. 
Jenny  was  playing  a  new  game — jumping 
on  the  couch  till  two  springs  shot  through 
the  material.  Craig  was  nursing  a  cut 
toe,  moaning  as  he  dipped  his  foot  in  hot 
Epsom-salts  water.  Jim  could  hardly  un- 
derstand what  Virginia  was  saying. 

"Don't  you  want  me  to  come  home, 
darling?" 

And  how  he  wanted  her  to  come  home! 
Instead  he  said,  "Of  course  not  .  .  ." 

Virginia,  uneasily,  "How  are  you  get- 
ting along?" 

"Fine,"  said  Jim.  "Just  fine." 

"What's  all  that  noise?" 

"Television,"  Jim  insisted.  "I  better 
urn  it  down.     Bye,  dear." 

Six    days    later,    Jim    drove    to    Palm 


Springs,  to  spend  a  night  with  his  wife 
before  taking  her  home.  Ordinarily,  he 
can't  stand  the  resort  town.  But  after  a 
week  of  having  the  full  responsibility  of 
running  a  home — any  place  looked  good. 

And  his  wife  looked  even  better.  He 
hardly  recognized  the  tanned,  vivacious 
girl  who  raced  over  to  hug  him  the  mo- 
ment he  walked  into  her  bungalow.  She 
looked  relaxed  and  happy.  The  change 
was  obvious,  not  only  to  Jim,  but  to  the 
rest  of  the  family,  too  .  .  . 

In  fact,  Jim  was  so  enthusiastic  about 
the  results  that  he  insisted  Virginia  take 
off  every  month — an  idea  she  promptly 
banished.  However,  she  is  willing  to  take 
off  occasionally,  just  as  he  does. 

Not  all  their  "vacations  from  marriage" 
are  taken  singly,  of  course.  In  addition 
to  a  "family  vacation"  once  a  year — when 
all  five  Arnesses  leave  together — Jim  and 
Virginia  go  away  together  occasionally, 
leaving  the  children  in  the  capable  hands 
of  their  grandmother,  Jetty  Chapman.  The 
youngsters  enjoy  it,  too.  It  gives  them  a 
relief  from  parental  authority.  Grandma 
is  a  lot  less   strict  than   their   own   folks. 

While  Jim  and  Virginia  feel  that  every 
couple  should  get  away  by  themselves 
once  in  a  while,  their  interpretations  of 
"by  themselves"  have  differed  consider- 
ably. Jim  doesn't  mind  having  others 
along.  Virginia  thinks  three's  a  crowd 
and  four  a  mob:  "When  we  go  with 
someone,  no  matter  how  nice  they  are, 
invariably  Jim  and  the  others  start  talk- 
ing business.  Half  the  time,  I  don't  under- 
stand enough  about  it  to  take  part  in  the 
discussions,  if  indeed  they  even  know  I'm 
around  .  .  ." 

She  gave  a  recent  trip  back  east  as  a 
typical  example.  Jim's  sponsor,  Liggett 
&  Myers  Tobacco  Co.,  sent  him  to  Durham, 
North  Carolina,  for  a  personal  appear- 
ance, then  let  him  take  a  few  days  to 
drive  to  New  York,  where  he  spent  an- 
other week.  When  he  got  through  in 
Durham,  Jim,  Virginia,  and  Milton  Weiss, 
Jim's  friend  and  publicist,  rented  a  car 
and  took  a  leisurely  three-day  trip  to 
New  York  City. 

According  to  Jim,  "We  had  a  wonder- 
ful trip.  No  pressure  from  anyone.  Just 
enjoying  ourselves."  Virginia's  version 
lacked  her  husband's  enthusiasm.  "Jim 
and  Milton  had  a  great  time.  They  were 
sitting  in  front,  talking  a  mile  a  minute. 
I  was  in  the  back.  When  the  wind  didn't 
blow  me  to  pieces,  the  baggage  nudged 
me  from  both  sides.  Every  once  in  a  while, 
one  of  the  men  turned  around  to  see  if 
I  was  still  there!  It  was  no  better  in 
New  York.  Sure,  we  went  sightseeing — 
Jim,  Milton,  two  people  from  the  network, 
a  reporter,  and  at  least  one  photographer." 

It's  different  when  just  the  two  of  them 
go  away  together,  as  they  did  last  fall, 
when  they  drove  to  the  Mother  Lode 
country  in  Northern  California.  Well- 
supplied  with  maps  and  guide  books,  they 
visited  the  Western  historical  spots  like 
a  couple  of  typical  tourists.  Or  honey- 
mooners.  .  .  . 

Whether  Jim's  and  Virginia's  vacations 
from  marriage  would  hold  just  as  true  for 
other  couples  is  a  matter  of  conjecture. 
They  don't  advocate  the  idea,  yet  they 
don't  minimize  the  effect  on  their  own 
marriage.  "Every  couple  has  different 
problems,"  says  Jim.  "In  our  case  it  has 
worked  out  well.  Furthermore,  I'm  con- 
vinced that  we  see  as  much  of  one  an- 
other as  most  married  couples,  taking  into 
consideration  that  I  have  no  desire  for 
evenings  out  with  'the  boys'  to  play  poker 
or  pool,  and  that  Virginia  no  longer  cares 
for  any  women's  activities  which  would 
keep  her  away  from  home.  In  fact,  I'm 
convinced  that  we  enjoy  each  other's 
company  more  throughout  the  year,  be- 
cause of  the  few  days  we  are  apart." 


Special  New  Tablet 

Relieves  Monthly  Cramps 

for  3  out  of  4  in  Tests! 


Amazing  new  formula  developed 

especially  for  female  distress  gives 

greater  relief  than  aspirin! 

If  you  dread  those  "difficult  days"  each 
month,  listen!  Science  has  developed  a 
special  new  tablet  to  relieve  pain,  cramps, 
and  tense  feelings  of  monthly  periods! 
It  contains  a  unique  combination  of  medi- 
cines— including  blood-building  iron. 
Thus  offers  more  relief  than  plain  aspirin! 

In  doctors'  tests  painful  distress  was 
relieved  for  3  out  of  4  women!  Many 
didn't  suffer  even  on  the  first  day!  They 
also  escaped  much  of  the  jitters  and  un- 
happy tension  so  common  as  you  ap- 
proach that  trying  time  of  month. 

So  don't  suffer  needlessly.  Ask  for 
"Lydia  Pinkham  Tablets"  at  drug  stores. 
No  prescription  needed.  See  if  they  don't 
help  you  feel  worlds  better — both  before 
and  during  your  period! 


POEMS 


WANTED 


For  musical  setting  .  .  .  send 
Poems    today.    Any    subject, 

immediate    consideration.    Phonograph    records    made. 

CROWN  MUSIC  CO.,  49  W.32  St.,  Studio  560,  New  York  1 


High  School  Course 

at  Home 


Many  Finish  in  2  Years 

If  you  did  not  or  cannot  finish  high  school,  here  is 
your  opportunity.  Study  in  spare  time  at  home.  Go 
as  rapidly  as  your  time  and  abilities  permit.  Course 
equivalent  to  residential  school — prepares  for  college 
exams.  Standard  texts  supplied.  Credit  for  subjects 
already  completed.  Single  subjects  if  desired.  Di- 
ploma awarded.  Be  a  High  School  graduate.  Start 
studies  now.  Free  Bulletin.  Send  coupon. 

p OUR  60TH   YEAR "J 

j  AMERICAN  SCHOOL,  Dept.  H-753 

■  Drexel  at  58th  St.,  Chicago  37,  III. 

I  Without     obligation,     please     send     FREE     descriptive    I 

j  booklet. 

■  Name I 

I    Address | 

I    Complete    Canadian    Course    available.    Write    American    I 
School,  Dept.   H753,  6083  Sherbrooke  St.  W.,  Montreal    I 
I 1 

Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 
New  Way  Without  Surgery 

Science  Finds  Healing  Substance  That 
Relieves  Pain — Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 

For  the  first  time  science  has  found  a 
new  healing  substance  with  the  astonishing 
ability  to  shrink  hemorrhoids  and  to  relieve 
pain  —  without  surgery. 

In  case  after  case,  while  gently  relieving 
pain,  actual  reduction  (shrinkage)  took 
place. 

Most  amazing  of  all  —  results  were  so 
thorough  that  sufferers  made  astonishing 
statements  like  "Piles  have  ceased  to  be  a 
problem!" 

The    secret    is    a    new    healing    substance         T 
(Bio-Dyne*)  — discovery  of  a  world-famous 
research  institute. 

This   substance   is   now  available  in   sup-        R 
pository  or  ointment  form  under  the  name 
Preparation  H.*  Ask  for  it  at  all  drug  count- 
ers—money  back  guarantee.     *Beg.  U.  S.  Pat.  Off. 

85 


86 


m   w     w     w    w 
I     WHY  Have  Dark  or 
[  Discolored  Skin,  Freckles, 
Ugly  Skin  Spots— 

WHEN  Mercolized  Wax  Cream's 
amazing  7  night  plan  lightens, 
beautifies  skin  while  you  sleep! 

Just  follow  the  famous  Mercolized  Wax 
Cream  7  night  plan  to  a  whiter,  clearer, 
lovelier  complexion.  Apply  specially  med- 
icated Mercolized  Wax  Cream  to  face, 
arms,  or  elsewhere  each  night 
for  one  week.  You'll  begin  to  see 
results  almost  at  once,  asitlight- 
ens  dark  skin,  blotches,  freckles 
and  ugly  skin  spots  as  if  by  magic! 
This  is  not  a  cover-up  cosmetic; 
Mercolized  Wax  Cream  works 
UNDER  the  skin  surface.  Beautiful  women 
have  used  this  time-tested  plan  for  over  40 
years— you'll  love  its  fast,  sure,  longer 
isting  results!  Mercolized  Wax  Cream  is 
sold  on  a  100%  guarantee  or  money  back. 

MERCOLIZED  WAX  CREAM 

At  All  Drug  and  Cosmetic  Counters 

SONGWRITERS! 

PROTECT    YOUR    IDEAS!    HOLD    ALL    SONGS,    POEMS! 

Write    for    safe,    correct    procedure! 

SONG   SERVICE 

Dept.  T.V.  333  W.  56th  St.,   New  York  19,  N.  Y. 


L  Ig  Mens 
dark  skin, 
freckles 
and  ugly 
skin  spots. 


OLD  LEG  TROUBLE 


« 


Easy  to  use  Viscose  Applications  may 
heal  many  old  leg  sores  due  to  venous 
congestion  of  varicose  veins,  leg  swell- 
ing or  injuries.  Send  today  for  a  FREE 
BOOK  and  No-Cost-For-Trial-plan. 

R.  G.   VISCOSE  COMPANY 
140  N.  Dearborn  Street,    Chicago  2,  Illinois 


Away  Go  Corns! 

No  waiting  when  you  use  Dr.  Scholl's. 
It's  the  quickest  way  to  relieve  and 
remove  corns  ever  discovered.      _^j|» 
Get  a  box  today  and  see !  <^> ,  ■-•Jy 


D-Scholls  Zi no  pads 


500  SChilds  Photo 


Yes,  up  to  $500  and  more  PAID  if  used  for 
TV,  Calendar  or  Magazine  Ads.  YOUR  CHILD 
has  same  opportunity.  Send  ONE  small  photo 
for  approval.  Print  child's  and  mother's  name 
and  address  on  back.  Returned  in  2  weeks 
with  report.  (Ages  6  mo.  to  18  yrs.) 

NO  OBLIGATION.  (Established  1946) 
HOLLYWOOD  SPOTLITE.  Dept.  AJ 
8346    Beverly    Blvd.,    Hollywood,   Calif. 


Extra  Cash -Each 
And  Every  Week 

If  you  are  looking  for  an  easy  way  to  earn 
extra  money  each  week,  send  us  your 
name  and  address  at  once.  We  pay  the 
highest  commissions  to  men  and  women 
all  over  the  country  who  help  us  take 
orders  for  magazine  subscriptions.  Write 
for  FREE  information:  Sales  Agents,  Mac- 
fadden  Publications,  205  E.  42  St.,  N.  Y.  17,  N.  Y. 


SUFFS  PSORIASIS 


MAKE  THE  ONE 

SPOTf 

TEST. 


(SCALY    SKIN    TROUBLE) 

DGRmOIL 


TRY  IT  YOURSELF  no 

matter  how  long  you  have 

suffered.  Write  for  FREE 

book  on  Psoriasis  and 

DERMOIL.  Send  lOc 

for  trial  bottle  to  make 

our  "One  Spot  Test". 


Seiu//fvr 

^GENEROUS 

TRIAL 

SIZE 


Don't  be  embarrassed 
with  Psoriasis,  the  ugly, 
scaly  skin  disease.  TRY 
dermoil.  Amazing  re- 
sults reported  by  many 
grateful  users  for  24 
years.  With  DERMOIL  It 

is  possible  that  ugly  scaly  patches  -^^na^*— -  "«■«■ 
on  body  or  scalp  may  be  gradually  removed  and  the  an- 
noying Itching  relieved,  while  the  skin  becomes  pliable 
and  soft  as  the  redness  is  reduced.  Many  doctors  use  the 
non-staining  Dermoil  formula.  Must  give  definite  benefit 
or  money  back.  Sold  by  leading  Drug  stores. 
Write  today  LAKE  LABORATORIES,  Dept.  4517 

Box  3925,  Strath  moor   Station,  Detroit  2  7,  Mich. 


Crusader's  Wife 


(Continued  from  page  41) 
other  four-  and  two-legged  things,  you 
can  imagine  that  it  isn't  exactly  quiet. 
But  we  are  unusually  happy,  and  I  think 
that's  because  of  the  faith  we  share  in 
Christ.  We  live  with  and  try  to  live  by 
the  Bible,  for,  to  us,  the  Bible  isn't  merely 
a  book.  To  us,  the  Bible  is  God's  word 
and  our  final  authority."  She  goes  on, 
"Bill  and  I  have  no  major  disagreements, 
but  I  don't  say  we  haven't  disagreed.  We 
do  differ  on  a  number  of  things — but  then 
I  remember  a  shower  friends  gave  for  me 
during  our  engagement.  Each  wrote  a  bit 
of  advice  on  a  slip  of  paper,  and  one 
woman  wrote:  W7xe?t  two  people  agree  on 
everything,  one   of  them  is   unnecessary." 

Being  married  to  Billy  Graham  is  no 
light  responsibility,  for  he  has  proved  to 
be  one  of  the  most  persuasive  evangelists 
in  history.  Each  of  his  crusades,  in  the 
U.S.  and  abroad,  has  reached  hundreds  of 
thousands,  with  the  total  running  into  the 
millions.  His  weekly  broadcasts  go  into 
every  corner  of  the  world.  His  sincerity 
and  his  purpose — both  beyond  reproach — 
have  brought  him  recognition  from  royalty 
and  heads  of  state.  In  England,  he  was 
received  by  the  Queen  Mother  and  Queen 
Elizabeth.  The  Archbishop  of  Canterbury 
gave  the  benediction  at  one  of  Billy's 
meetings.  He  has  prayed  with  Presidents 
Truman  and  Eisenhower.  Chief  Justice 
Earl  Warren  has  helped  Billy  promote  a 
crusade. 

Today,  at  thirty-nine,  Billy's  reddish- 
brown  hair  is  graying  but  his  six-two 
frame  stands  as  tall  and  lean  as  ever.  Of 
course,  millions  know  what  he  looks  like. 
Not  so  many  have  seen  Ruth.  You  have 
heard  she  is  a  beautif.  i  woman.  She  is, 
beautiful  and  chic.  She  is  five-foot-five, 
has  brown  hair,  a  tanned  complexion  and 
very  bright  eyes.  There  are  vivacity  and 
self-sufficiency  in  her  manner,  but  also 
real  evidence  of  humility  and  simple  kind- 
ness. Billy  recalls  that,  when  he  met  her 
at  Wheaton  College,  she  was  the  campus 
queen. 

"I  was  no  beauty  queen,"  she  says.  "Bill 
just  says  that.  When  a  man's  in  love,  even 
a  cow  would  look  pretty." 

Billy  will  tell  you  that  Ruth  knows  the 
Bible  better  than  he  does  and  that  she's 
the  brain  in  the  family.  Ruth  extends  her 
privilege  to  disagree,  saying,  "Perhaps, 
when  we  were  first  married,  I  knew  more 
of  the  Bible.  I  had  studied  more  as  a 
child,  and  in  college  my  major  was  the 
Bible.  But  now  Bill  has  passed  me  up. 
And,  so  far  as  being  a  genius  or  smarter 
than  Bill — well,  that  isn't  so.  Just  go  back 
and  look  at  my  school  records.  They  don't 
indicate  that  I'm  a  genius."  She  notes: 
"I  give  advice  only  when  asked.  And, 
when  you  consider  that  Billy  is  away  so 
much,  that  couldn't  be  very  often." 

One  year,  Billy  may  be  home  about  four 
months.  The  next  year,  it  may  be  three 
months  or  five.  Ruth  seldom  travels  with 
Billy  or  stays  with  him  for  the  duration 
of  a  crusade.  What  she  will  do  is  fly  to 
whatever  city  he  is  in,  for  a  four-  or  five- 
day  visit,  then  hustle  back  to  home  and 
the  children. 

"When  Bill  is  in  the  midst  of  a  crusade, 
he  is  very  busy,"  she  explains.  "Through- 
out the  day,  he  has  appointments,  writing 
commitments  to  finish.  And,  in  the  eve- 
nings, of  course,  there  are  the  meetings. 
His  work  is  seldom  over  before  midnight. 
His  work  is  so  pressing — well,  there  was 
the  morning  during  the  New  York  cru- 
sade. School  was  over  for  the  kids  and  I 
had  parked  them  witn'  their  grandparents 
and  gone  to  New  York  for  a  week.  We 
were  living  at  the  New  Yorker  Hotel  and, 
that  morning,  Bill  had  to  get  off  for  Phila- 


delphia, where  he  was  to  meet  Dr.  Dan 
Poling.  Well,  Bill  was  so  occupied  with 
what  he  had  to  do  and  was  thinking  so 
hard  that  he  went  out  of  the  room  and 
locked  me  in.  He  forgot  that  I  was  even 
there. 

"Bill  loses  ten  to  fifteen  pounds  during 
a  crusade,"  she  continues.  "When  he  gets 
home,  we  try  to  let  him  catch  up  on  his 
sleep.  He  gets  a  chance  to  relax  and  soak 
up  sun  and  get  back  his  energy.  He  spends 
a  lot  of  time  with  the  children — and  I  don't 
have  to  tell  you  what  this  means  to  a 
father  who  has  been  away  from  home  for 
months — or  to  the  children." 

The  Graham  home  is  on  a  mountainside, 
about  3600  feet  above  Montreat,  North 
Carolina.  This  is  their  second  home  near 
Montreat.  Their  first  was  smaller  and  at 
a  lower  altitude.  "In  one  respect,"  says 
Ruth,  "I  liked  the  smaller  house  better, 
for  it  was  easier  to  keep  up.  But  we  had 
to  have  more  space.  Not  just  for  the 
children,  but  because,  when  Billy  is  at 
home,  he  works  right  in  the  house.  Even 
his  Hour  Of  Decision  broadcasts  originate 
from  his  study." 

Kuth  made  the  house.  She  did  every- 
thing but  put  it  together  with  her  bare 
hands.  Before  friends  sent  an  architect 
to  help  her,  she  knew  exactly  the  kind  of 
house  it  would  be,  the  materials  to  be 
used,  the  kind  of  flooring  and  walls  and 
ceilings  she  wanted,  everything.  "Above 
all,"  she  says,  "I  wanted  it  to  look  a  hun- 
dred years  old  or  more,  when  finished.  It 
almost  does!" 

In  her  jeep  and  jeans — her  "work  horse" 
and  her  work  clothes — she  chased  around 
the  mountains  looking  for  old  log  cabins 
that  had  fallen  into  neglect.  When  she 
found  one,  she  bought  up  the  hand-hewn 
chestnut,  pine  and  poplar  logs  which  would 
have  been  impossibly  expensive  if  she 
had  bought  them  new.  "I  could  just  about 
tell  whether  I  would  get  them,"  she 
smiles.  "If  the  roof  had  caved  in,  then  I 
knew  the  owner  would  sell  me  logs.  If  the 
cabin  roof  was  intact,  it  was  still  worth 
more  to  him  than  I  could  pay."  She 
bought  up  about  five  cabins,  then  went 
over  to  Asheville  and  bought  the  flooring 
and  paneling  of  a  96-year-old  house  which 
was  being  destroyed:  "I  paid  one-third  the 
price  of  comparable  new  lumber." 

While  the  house  was  going  up,  she  re- 
calls, "One  workman  quit  outright  because 
he  was  so  disgruntled  with  my  ideas.  'I 
wouldn't  hang  them  doors  on  my  chicken 
coop,'  he  complained.  'A  man  can't  take 
no  pride  in  this  sort  of  work.'  The  con- 
tractor was  goodnatured  and  a  friend. 
Anything  I  wanted  to  do  was  all  right 
with  him.  But  some  of  the  men  found  it 
outrageous  that  what  new  lumber  we 
bought  went  into  the  framework  of  the 
house  and  the  old  stuff  became  the  floor 
and  paneling.  I  guess  they  thought  I  was 
out  of  my  mind  when  I  laid  a  brick  floor 
in  the  living  room! 

"Most  of  the  workmen  are  mountain 
people  and,  if  they  had  their  way,  they 
would  have  had  linoleum  on  the  floor,  the 
new  lumber  out  in  the  open  where  people 
could  see  it.  And  they  would  have  re- 
placed my  'junk'  furniture  with  new  red 
plush  chairs  from  Sears.  But,  when  the 
house  was  finished  and  furnished,  some  of 
them  came  calling  to  see  how  it  looked.  'It 
kind  of  grows  on  you/  said  one.  'First 
thing  you  know,  you  catch  yourself  liking 
it.'  Another  said,  'It  puts  me  in  mind  of 
when  I  was  a  boy.' " 

Ruth  hunted  down  furniture  as  she  did 
logs.  She  wanted  authentic  antiques.  Not 
French  or  English,  but,  rather,  early  Caro- 
lina  furniture.     But   the   furnishings   and 


home  were  not  matters  that  Ruth  and 
Billy  agreed  on.  "I  don't  think  the  average 
man  has  a  feeling  for  antiques,"  Ruth  says, 
tactfully.  "Men  like  things  modern  and 
new.  But  Bill  likes  the  home  now.  It  was 
built  for  a  family.  There  is  nothing  ex- 
pensive in  the  house  and  the  kids  don't 
have  to  be  afraid  to  play.  There  is  plenty 
of  room  for  them  to  be  noisy.  But  it  was 
designed,  too,  so  that  Bill  can  get  away 
from  their  noise.  His  study  is  soundproof 
for  the  quiet  he  may  need  for  rest  or  de- 
liberation." 

The  Grahams  have  four  children.  Vir- 
ginia will  be  twelve  on  the  twenty-first  of 
September;  Ann  was  nine  this  past  May; 
Ruth  will  be  seven  in  December;  Franklin 
reached  his  fifth  birthday  in  July.  "They 
are  all  live  wires,"  Ruth  says,  "but  so  dif- 
ferent. Bill  says,  'Gigi  (that's  Virginia) 
stimulates  me.  Ann  relaxes  me.  Ruth 
tickles  me.  And  Franklin,  well,  he's  a 
sight.' "  Ruth  notes:  "Franklin  is  com- 
pletely boy.  So  self-assured.  No  tendency 
to  brood  or  be  petulant." 

And  there  is  the  menagerie:  "I  don't 
know  why  we  have  the  sheep.  I've  yet  to 
figure  that  out.  Even  the  parakeets  and 
turtles  keep  you  busy.  You  just  don't 
know.  I  got  all  the  way  up  to  New  York 
this  past  summer  and  then,  from  some 
corner  in  my  mind,  came  the  reminder 
that  one  of  the  turtles  had  been  misplaced 
in  an  old  wooden  churn  which  we  use  for 
a  wastebasket. 

"I  don't  think  there  is  any  work  harder 
than  that  of  being  a  mother  and  home- 
maker,"  Ruth  says  honestly.  "Too  much 
is  expected  of  the  woman — cleaning,  cook- 
ing, washing,  sewing,  raising  kids,  being 
a  wife,  et  cetera."  Ruth  adds,  "And  there 
is  nothing  stimulating  about  wiping  noses 
or  cleaning  muddy  shoes  and  the  dirt  they 
leave.  But  a  mother  must  realize  God  put 
her  there,  because  it  is  the  most  important 
job  in  the  world. 

"The  Bible  has  plenty  to  say  about  self- 
control  and  self- discipline.  Nowhere  is  it 
more  important  than  in  the  life  of  a 
mother — and  nowhere  is  it  harder  to 
achieve.  I'm  not  saying  we  should  never 
be  angry  with  our  children.  When  they 
have  done  something  particularly  outra- 
geous, it's  a  good  thing  to  let  them  know, 
in  no  uncertain  terms,  just  where  they 
stand.  But  the  important  thing  is  to  dis- 
tinguish between  serious  moral  issues — 
wilful  disobedience,  disrespect  to  elders, 
irreverence  concerning  things  holy,  lying, 
cheating — and  the  simple,  annoying  things 
children  do  in  the  natural  process  of  grow- 
ing up — carelessness,  noisiness,  and  so  on. 

"A  mother  can't  afford  to  be  lenient 
where  a  moral  issue  is  concerned,"  Ruth 
points  out.  "But  she  should  always  be 
loving.  And,  when  it  is  a  matter  of  grow- 
ing children  being  clumsy  and  breaking 
something  accidentally — being  noisy — be- 
ing untidy — I  think  it  important  that  a 
mother  be  firm  and  loving,  but  not  peevish. 
Nagging  and  peevishness,  along  with  un- 
fair discipline,  can  leave  scars  on  a  child's 
life.  But  it  is  amazing  how  children  can 
forget  your  mistakes — and  what  parent 
hasn't  made  any? — when  they  know  they 
are  loved." 

Billy  and  Ruth  have  definite  ideas  on 
discipline.  Billy  says,  "For  disobedience 
and  dishonesty,  I'm  not  above  putting  a 
little  switch  to  their  bottoms."  Ruth  says, 
"We  believe  in  love  and  discipline.  For 
discipline,  I  use  a  belt  and  don't  mean 
maybe.  I  have  heard  Gigi  say,  'After 
Mother  whips  me,  I'm  good  for  three  days.' 
That's  the  way  she  responds  to  a  licking. 
But  the  second  child,  if  you  just  look  at 
her,  she  begins  to  cry.  So  I  think  you 
have  to  judge  each  to  know  what  is  needed. 
Punishment  must  be  fair  and  it  must  be 
explained.  But  we  insist  on  obedience  and 
honesty." 


Billy  is  home  so  little  that  he  does  little 
of  the  switching,  for  he  doesn't  want  to  be 
remembered  as  an  ogre.  But,  if  he  hears 
one  of  the  children  talk  back  to  Ruth,  he 
takes  the  child  immediately  into  the  library 
for  a  talking:  "We  want  them  to  reason 
with  us  but  not  sass  back.  It's  a  matter  of 
learning  the  difference." 

Billy  is  a  thoughtful  husband,  and  per- 
haps the  most  thoughtful  gesture  he  ever 
made  was  the  year  he  bought  Ruth  a  dish- 
washer. "I  could  never  get  to  like  dish- 
washing," she  says.  "No  future  in  it.  I 
tried  everything  to  change  my  attitude, 
but  it  was  no  use.  You  see,  Bill  is  no  soup- 
and-sandwich  man.  He  likes  three  square 
meals  a  day.  So,  by  the  time  I  had  finished 
the  breakfast  dishes  and  pots  and  pans, 
there  was  dinner  to  get  ready.  By  the 
time  the  noon  dishes  and  pots  and  pans 
were  cleaned,  it  was  time  to  start  supper. 
And,  after  supper,  back  to  the  sink  again. 
So,  eventually,  Bill  got  me  a  dishwasher. 
And  then,  I  do  have  help  in  the  house 
now.  I  never  know  when  I'll  be  leaving 
to  join  Bill  for  a  few  days — but,  when  I 
do,  the  house  must  continue  to  function 
for  the  sake  of  the  children." 

Ruth  goes  on,  "Even  if  a  woman  has 
help,  even  if  she  has  unlimited  help  and 
unlimited  money,  she  needs  Christ  in  her 
home.  I  try  to  get  up  every  morning  be- 
fore the  children,  to  pray — although  it's 
nip -and -tuck  with  Franklin,  for  he  is  up 
between  five-thirty  and  six.  But  Christ  is 
with  me  all  through  the  day.  That's  where 
I  get  my  strength  and  patience.  You  know, 
Christ  is  not  just  an  historical  person  who 
died  two  thousand  years  ago.  He  rose 
again,  and  His  last  words  to  us  were:  'Lo, 
I  am  with  you  even  unto  the  end  of  the 
world.'  And  that  goes  for  the  housewife, 
too." 

Although  Ruth  and  Billy  are  as  one  in 
their  acceptance  of  Christ,  actually  they 
are  of  different  denominations.  Ruth  calls 
him  a  "backslidden  Presbyterian."  Billy's 
father,  a  dairy  farmer  in  North  Carolina, 
was  a  very  religious  man,  as  was  Billy's 
mother;  both  are  Presbyterians.  Billy 
chose  the  Baptist  Church  when  he  was  a 
young  man.  Ruth,  on  the  other  hand,  was 
raised  and  still  remains  a  Presbyterian. 
Her  father,  Dr.  L.  Nelson  Bell,  was  a 
medical  missionary  in  China,  where  Ruth 
went  to  school  until  she  reached  college 
age.  Her  aim,  as  an  undergraduate  at 
Wheaton  College,  was  to  go  to  Tibet  as  a 
missionary.  Billy's  proposal  of  marriage 
changed  her  mind.  "I  have  no  regrets," 
she  says,  "and,  so  far  as  the  difference  in 
our  choice  of  church  is  concerned,  we  be- 
lieve that  a  family  should  be  united,  and 
so  we  are.  We  attend  church  together. 
When  Billy  is  home,  he  usually  goes  to 
the  Presbyterian  Church  with  us,  there 
being  no  Baptist  Church  in  Montreat.  The 
children  aren't  aware  of  denominational 
differences.  There  will  be  time  enough  for 
that  later.  The  children  are  just  conscious 
that  Christ  is  their  saviour  and  friend." 

Billy  seldom  preaches  in  Montreat,  but 
his  work  goes  on  at  home.  There  is  prepa- 
ration for  a  new  crusade,  conferences  with 
men  of  the  church,  the  writing  of  his  daily 
column  and  his  articles  and  always  the 
broadcasts.  He  tries  to  make  up  as  much 
as  possible  to  the  children  for  the  months 
he's  been  away.  They  hike  and  play  to- 
gether. A  brook  has  been  dammed  and 
they  swim  together.  On  Sundays,  the  chil- 
dren are  not  allowed  television  and  movies, 
but,  after  church,  they  usually  have  a 
family  picnic.  On  a  recent  Sunday  morn- 
ing, Ruth  had  let  Billy  sleep  on,  for  he 
had  just  returned  from  a  trip.  But,  when 
she  and  the  children  got  back  from  church, 
they  found  he  had  a  picnic  basket  packed 
for  them. 

"People  ask  me  how  I  remind  the  chil- 


llketod^y)? 


FREE 

ART  TALENT  TEST 

Find  out  if  you  have  the  talent  to 
be  a  commercial  artist.  Take  Test 
at  home.  Offered  by  world's  largest 
home  study  art  school.  Write  to 
Art  Instruction,  Inc.,  Studio  9397  at 
500  S.  4th,  Minneapolis  15,  Minn. 


all    s-t-r-e-t-c-h-a-ti-l-fi 


America's  most  tomiorfabie,  all-elastic  bras. 

From  2.95  at  fine  stores  everywhere. 
Breathinbro,  Inc.,  339  fifth  Avenue,  New  York  16 


into  DOLLARS! 

NEW  songwriters,  poets  share  $33  millions 
yearly.  Songs  Composed,  PUBLISHED, 
Promoted.  Appraisal,  info  FREE  from... 

NORDYKE     Music     Publishers 
6000  Sunset.  HOLLYWOOD  286,  Calif. 


ISRAEL  STAMP 

COLLECTION    rr" 
Only  25c        It 


Usually   selling  for  SI. 00   and 

more,    this    packet    of    25    ALL 

DIFFERENT       ISRAEL      stamps 

including    the    ancient    Hebrew 

coin    sets,    12    Tribes    Issue,    High    Holy    Days,    Running 

Stag,    Airpost,    Children's    Issue,    etc.    All  this    is   yours 

for  onlv    25c    to    introduce   our   bargain  approval   offers. 

EXTRA:   48-Page  Stamp  Dictionary  &  Guide  incl.  FREE. 

STAMPEX  CO.,  Box  47-NTV,  White  Plains,  N.  Y. 


BLONDES 


New  Home  Shampoo  for 
Blondes —  with  ANDIUM 

To  help  keep  blonde  hair  from  growing  dark  or  faded 
use  BLONDEX,  the  new  shampoo  that  contains  ANDIUM 
for  extra  lightness  and  SHINE.  Made  at  home,  fresh  as 
you  need  it,  BLONDEX  instantly  removes  dingy  film  that 
makes  hair  dark.  Washes  hair  shades  lighter,  gives  it 
lovely  lustre.  Takes  only  1 1  minutes!  Safe  for  children.  Get 
BLONDEX  today  at  any!  0«,  drug  or  toilet  goods  counter. 


87 


New  Patterns 
for  You 


9209 — Lovely  style  for  shorter,  fuller 
figures.  Button  bodice,  smart  squared 
armholes.  Printed   Pattern  in  Half  Sizes 
14i/2-24i/2.  Size  I6I/2  takes  3%  yards 
39-inch  fabric;  14  yard  contrast. 
State  size.  35$ 

4500 — Smart  as  a  date-dress  or  as  jumper 
and   blouse   for   school.  Have   it   in 
corduroy    or   rich    velveteen.    Printed 
Pattern    in    Misses'    Sizes    10-20.    Size    16 
jumper  takes  3%  yards  39-inch  fabric; 
blouse  1%  yards.  State  size.  35$ 

9384 — Smart   little   fall-winter   outfit   for 
daughter.    No    fitting    problems    for 
mother — waistline   is   cinched   by   perky 
sash.   Printed   Pattern    in    Child    Sizes 
2,  4,  6,  8,  10.  Size  6  jumper  takes  214 
yards   35-inch   nap;    blouse    1%    yards 
35-inch  fabric.  State  size.  35$ 


9209 

SIZES 
14V2-24V2 


Send  thirty-five  cents  (in  coin)  for  each  pattern  to  :  TV  Radio  Mirror,  Pattern  Depart- 
ment, P.O.  Box  137,  Old  Chelsea  Station,  New  York  11,  New  York.  Add  five  cents  for 
each    pattern    for    first-class    mailing.    Be    sure    to    specify    pattern    number    and    size. 


dren  of  Bill  when  he's-  away,"  Ruth  says. 
"Well,  I  don't  have  to.  We  all  talk  about 
him.  There  are  occasional  pictures  in  the 
paper.  We  listen  to  him  on  the  radio.  We 
watch  whenever  he's  on  television.  But  I 
remember  when  the  situation  was  re- 
versed. Bill  almost  lost  touch  with  them. 
A  friend  took  a  picture  of  Franklin  when 
he  was  between  two  and  three  years  old. 
Bill  hadn't  seen  Franklin  in  five  months. 
The  friend  had  the  picture  enlarged  and 
sent  it  to  Bill  in  Europe.  He  looked  at 
the  picture,  and  asked,  'Now,  why  would 
anyone  send  me  an  enlarged  picture  of  his 
son?'    He  didn't  recognize  his  own." 

Kuth  and  Billy  try  to  keep  the  children 
away  from  reporters  and  photographers. 
They  don't  believe  in  publicity  for  them 
and,  besides,  they've  already  had  more 
than  their  share  of  public  exposure.  Their 
last  home  was  on  the  highway.  Tourists 
stopped  by  continually  to  ask  for  souvenirs 
or  just  look.  During  the  peak  season,  as 
many  as  four  busloads  a  day  emptied  their 
passengers  at  the  Graham  home  to  sight- 
see.  They  came  onto  the  lawn,  peeked  into 
windows  and  focused  their  cameras  in  hope 
of  candid  shots.  Billy  himself  recalls  days 
when  he  could  move  from  room  to  room 
only  by  crawling  below  the  window  sills. 

Matters  have  not  improved  much,  now 
that  they  have  moved  from  the  highway 
to  the  mountain  top.  Hikers  appear  at 
dusk  to  camp.  Ruth  was  putting  one  of  the 
children  to  bed  and  saw  a  face  at  the  win- 
dow. No  kidnapper.  Just  a  tourist.  She 
was  getting  dressed  in  a  downstairs  bed- 
room when  she  heard  a  rustling  outside 
the  window.  Again,  tourists.  One  neigh- 
bor has  taken  pity  on  the  Grahams.  When 
a  car  stops  him  and  asks  where  Billy  lives, 
the  neighbor  says,  "Billy  Graham?  Who's 
Billy  Graham?"  But  Ruth  and  Billy  have 
instructed  the  children  to  be  courteous 
to  tourists.  Ruth  herself  observed  Gigi 
being  stopped  by  a  car  and  asked,  "Where 
does  Billy  Graham  live?"  Gigi  didn't  look 
enthusiastic  about  it  but  she  pointed  in  the 
right  direction. 

It's  not  pleasant  to  live  in  a  fishbowl. 
It's  particularly  hard  on  the  Grahams,  for 
they  enjoy  informal  living — and  it's  hard 
to  relax  when  you're  being  stared  at.  They 
would  not  be  rude  to  tourists,  but  are 
eager  to  point  out  that  the  scenery  in 
North  Carolina  is  beautiful. 

The  Grahams  have  good  times  at  home 
and  remember  in  particular  the  days  they 
were  snowed-in  last  winter:  "A  weekend 
at  the  longest,  and  that  wasn't  nearly  long 
enough.  You've  no  idea  how  beautiful  all 
that  snow  and  quiet  can  be."  But,  year 
around,  there  is  a  lot  of  horseplay  and 
laughter  about  the  house.  Even  at  Christ- 
mas. "This  past  Christmas,"  Ruth  smiles, 
"I  bought  Bill  a  two-hundred-year-old 
spinning  wheel  I'd  been  wanting  a  long 
time.  The  Christmas  before  that,  Bill 
bought  me  a  German  radio  he  wanted  so 
badly."  She  grins  as  she  recalls,  "His  gifts 
can  be  outlandish.  I  mentioned  that  I  could 
use  a  cotton  quilt  housecoat.  He  gave  me 
four  at  one  time — including  cotton,  rayon 
and  nylon." 

Ruth  thinks  that  one  good  reason  for  her 
happy  relationship  with  Billy  is  the  ab- 
sence of  criticism  in  their  home.  "It's  diffi- 
cult to  criticize  without  hurting  someone's 
feelings,"  she  explains.  "Bill  and  I  do 
little  of  it.  God  can  tell  us  off  when  no 
one  else  can.  In  the  Bible,  He  reveals  our 
shortcomings  and,  at  the  same  time,  en- 
courages us.  That's  the  way  the  Bible  is, 
and  it  is  as  up-to-date  today  as  it  ever 
was.  No  day  goes  by  that  I  don't  turn  to 
it  for  guidance."  Ruth  concludes,  "We  are 
an  unusually  happy  family  because  wei 
live  with  Christ.  It  was  said  by  someone — 
I  don't  know  who,  but  it's  true — 'The 
family  that  prays  together,  stays  together.'  " 


DISCOVERY!    DISCOVERY!     FEMININE     FABRIC! 
sheerest   luxury  ....   perfected    protection 
make    Modess   your  discovery   this   month 


4-  Cakes  of  Personal  Size   Ivory  Soap  cost  about 

the  same  as  3  cakes  of  other  leading  toilet  Soaps! 

Take  a  look  at  prices  of  leading  toilet  soaps  next  time  you  shop.  See  how 
much  less  Personal  Size  Ivory  Soap  costs — 4  cakes  for  no  more  than  you'd 
pay  for  3  of  other  brands.  Why,  that  makes  the  4th  cake  pure  savings!  And 
such  a  beautiful  way  to  save.  Ivory  is  the  finest  soap  you  can  buy — pure, 
mild,  gentle  enough  for  a  baby's  skin.  Advised  by  more  doctors  for  your  com- 
plexion, too.  Yes — take  a  look — That  Ivory  Look  for  your  skin.  So  radiantly 
fresh  and  clear — so  economically  yours! 


99,SS%  pure3 
floats 


Personal   Size    Ivory   is   your   best    beauty   buy 


RADIO 
MIRROR 


EXCLUSIVE 

What  have  they 
got  against 

Girl  Singers? 


IDIO  MIRROR 


W.  •  254 


bakespeare  and  the  Show  Girl 
ew  Voices  on  Your  Hit  Parade 
Kg  Year  lor  the  Steve  Aliens 


j0T 


'i 


: 


e  Meadows 

and 
teve  Allen 


|  BRECK I 


m 


■Jhr'Xv><>f» 


„  B  R  E  C  K 

•'• /-'      '••'  SHAMPOO  • 

BRECK  n 

SHAMPOO  {J 


4  ounces  60  i 


THERE  ARE  THREE  BRECK  SHAMPOOS 
FOR    THREE     DIFFERENT     HAIR     CONDITIONS 

It  is  important  to  use  a  shampoo  made  for  your  own  individual 
hair  condition.  There  are  three  Breck  Shampoos.  One  Breck 
Shampoo  is  for  dry  hair.  Another  Breck  Shampoo  is  for  oily 
hair.  A  Third  Breck  Shampoo  is  for  normal  hair.  Select 
the  Breck  Shampoo  for  your  particular  hair  condition.  A 
Breck  Shampoo  leaves  your  hair  soft,  lustrous  and  beautiful. 

New  packages  marked  with  color  help  you  select  the  correct  Breck  Shampoo. 
•  Red  for  dry  hair  •  Blue  for  normal  hair  Yellow  for  oily  hair 


JOHN 
N  E  W 


H       BRECK        INC  •  MANUFACTURING        CHEMISTS 

YORK  •  CHICAGO  •  SAN  FRANCISCO  •  LOS 

Copyright  1957  by  Tohn  H.  Breck  Inc. 


SPRINGFIELD 
ANGELES 


3         MASSACHUSETTS 
OTTAWA  CANADA 


T&thMsuwf&W 


for  the  woman  in  the  green  sedan 


Beth  knew  the  couple  with  the  green  sedan  had  been  married 

for  years.  Yet  he  was  attentive  as  a  bridegroom.  "If 

only  George  were  like  that",  she  reflected.  But  George  was 

not — and  there  was  a  "why".  Halitosis — bad  breath. 

The  most  common  cause  of 
bad  breath  is  germs  .  .  . 
Listerine  kills  germs  by  millions 


Listeria      g; 

Antiseptic 
stops  badbre^ 
4timesbetterthaB 

toothpaste 


The  most  common  cause  of  bad  breath  (halitosis) 

is  germs  in  the  mouth.  Tests  show  Listerine 

kills  every  germ  found  in  the  mouth  instantly, 

on  contact— to  help  keep  breath 

fresher,  sweeter,  longer. 

Tooth  paste  can't  kill  germs 
the  way  Listerine  does 

Tooth  paste  can't  kill  germs  the  way  Listerine 

does,  because  no  tooth  paste  is  antiseptic. 

That's  why  Listerine  stops  bad  breath 

four  times  better  than  tooth  paste.  Gargle 

Listerine  full-strength,  morning  and  night. 


LISTERINE  ANTISEPTIC 

stops  bad  breath  A  times  better  than  tooth  paste 


When  your  husband 
comes  home  cross 


/NERVINE 

help  him  relax  to  feel 
at  his  best  again! 


Even  the  best  husbands  come  home, 
now  and  then,  irritable  from  a 
tough  day.  And  that's  the  time  for 
miles  nervine!  Gentle  but 
effective,  miles  nervine  can  help 
your  man  become  calm  and 
relaxed,  to  feel  his  best  again.  And 
with  no  listless,  dulling  after-effect! 

Use  miles  nervine,  also,  whenever 
you  or  your  husband  are  too  restless 
to  sleep  at  night.  Miles  nervine  relaxes 
you,  lets  you  sleep — naturally. 
Follow  the  label — avoid  excessive 
use.  Miles  nervine  has  a  long 
record  of  satisfaction  in  use.  Buy  it 
in  effervescent  tablets  or  liquid. 


Soothe  nerves . . .    &&;- 
feel  calm  and  serene  with 


miles^NERVINE 


At  any  drugstore . 

No  Prescription  Needed! 

Miles  Laboratories,  Inc.,  Elkhart,  Ind. 


TV 


RADIO 
MIRROR 


NOVEMBER,  1957 


ATLANTIC    EDITION 


VOL.  48,  NO.  6 


Ann  Mosher,  Editor 
Teresa  Buxton,  Managing  Editor 
Claire  Safran,  Associate  Editor 
Gay  Miyoshi,  Assistant  Editor 


Jack  Zasorin,  Art  Director 
Frances  Maly,  Associate  Art  Director 
loan  Clarke,  Assistant  Art  Director 
Bud  Goode,  West  Coast  Editor 


PEOPLE  ON  THE  AIR 

What's  New  on  the  East  Coast by  Peter  Abbott  4 

What's  New  on  the  West  Coast by  Bud  Goode  14 

Mason  Adams  Has  Two  Lives by  Alice  Francis  22 

Shakespeare  and  the  Showgirl  (Barbara  Hall  on 

The  $64,000  Question) by  Ira  H.  Knaster  32 

Who's  Who  on  The  Robert  Q.  Lewis  Show  (Robert  Q.  Lewis, 

Judy  Johnson,  Richard  Hayes,  Ray  Bloch) 34 

True  Story  of  a  Happy  Woman  (Kathi  Norris) by  Martin  Cohen  38 

Year  of  Fulfillment  (Steve  Allen  and  Jayne  Meadows)  .  .by  Frances  Kish  40 

This  Is  Your  Life — Ralph  Edwards ! by  Dora  Albert  44 

What  Have  They  Got  Against  Girl  Singers? by  Helen  Bolstad  46 

"Come  for  Supper"  (Agnes  Young's  buffet  menu) 50 

Double  Trouble by  Ann  B.  Davis  52 

More  Than  a  "Movie  Star"  (Madeleine  Carroll)  ..  .by  Charlotte  Barclay  56 

Bride  And  Groom 58 

FEATURES  IN  FULL  COLOR 

New  Voices  on  Your  Hit  Parade  (Alan  Copeland,  Jill  Corey, 

Virginia  Gibson  and  Tommy  Leonetti) by  Lilla  Anderson  20 

Our  Gal  Sally  (Joan  Caulfield) by  Eunice  Field  24 

Lucky  Bob  LeMond by  Gordon  Budge  26 

A  Home  of  Her  Own  (Carmel  Quinn) by  Mary  Temple  28 

YOUR  LOCAL  STATION 

Up  With  the  Chickens  (WPEN) 8 

Upbeat  .  .  .  Downtown   (WABD) 10 

That  Second  Cup  of  Coffee  (WTOP-TV) 12 

Stars  of  the  Evening  (Westinghouse  Broadcasting  Co.) 18 

The  Record  Players:  A  Real  Sweet  Guy by  Art  Pallan  62 

YOUR  SPECIAL  SERVICES 

Information  Booth 6 

TV  Radio  Mirror  Goes  to  the  Movies by  Janet  Graves  16 

Beauty:  Teal  Ames  Lets  Her  Hair  Down by  Harriet  Segman  60 

New  Patterns  for  You  (smart  wardrobe  suggestions) 70 

New  Designs  for  Living  (needlecraft  and  transfer  patterns) 76 

Vote  for  Your  Favorites  (monthly  Gold  Medal  ballot) 80 

Cover  portrait  of  Steve  Allen  and  Jayne  Meadows  by  Gary  Wagner 


BUY  YOUR  DECEMBER  ISSUE  EARLY  •  ON  SALE  NOVEMBER  5 


MONTHLY      by      Macfadden 
Inc.,    New    York,    N.    Y. 
EXECUTIVE,      ADVERTISING      AND      EDI- 
.TORIAL     OFFICES      at      205      East     42nd 
Street,   New   York,    N.    Y.    Editorial  Branch 
>  Office,    6269    Selma    Ave.,    Hollywood    28, 
'Calif.     Irving     S.     Manheimer,     President; 
Lee      Andrews,      Vice      President;      Meyer 
vOlO        Dworkin,   Secretary  and  Treasurer.    Adver- 
tising offices   also    in   Chicago,    221    North 
LaSalle   Street,    and    San  Francisco. 

SUBSCRIPTION  RATES:  $3.00  one  year,  U.  S.  and 
Possessions  and  Canada.  $5.00  per  year  for  all  other 
countries. 

CHANGE  OF  ADDRESS:  6  weeks*  notice  essential. 
When  possible,  please  furnish  stencil  impression  ad- 
dress from  a  recent  issue.  Address  changes  can  be 
made  only  if  you  send  us  your  old.  as  well  as  your 
new  address.  Write  to  TV  Radio  Mirror.  205  East 
42nd  StreeV,  New  York  17.  N.  Y. 
MANUSCRIPTS:  All  manuscripts  will  be  carefully  con* 


sidered,  but  publisher  cannot  be  responsible  for  loss  or 
damage.  It  is  advisable  to  keep  a  duplicate  copy  for 
your  records.  Only  those  manuscrints  accompanied  by 
stamped,  self-addressed  return  envelopes  or  with  suffi- 
cient return  postage  will  be  returned. 
FOREIGN  editions  handled  through  Macfadden  Publi- 
cations International  Corp.,  205  East  42nd  Street,  New 
York  17,  N.  Y.  Irving  S.  Manheimer,  President;  Doug- 
las Loekhart,    Vice  President. 

RE-ENTERED  as  Second-Class.  Matter,  June  28,  1954, 
at  the  Post  Office  at  New  York,  N,  Y.,  under  the  Act  of 
March  3,  1879.  Authorized  as  Second  Class  mail,  P.O. 
Dept.,  Ottawa,  Ont^  Canada.  Copyright  1957  by  Mac- 
fadden Publications,  Inc.  All  rights  ^reserved  under  In- 
ternational Convright  Convention.  All  rights  reserved 
under'  Pan-American  Copyright  Convention.  Todos  de- 
rechos  reservados  s>agun  la  Convencion  Pan-Americana 
de  Propiedad  Literaria  y  Artistica.  Title  trademark 
registered  in  U.S.  Patent  Office.  Printed  in  U.  S.  A. 
by  Art  Color  Printing  Company. 

Member  of  the  TRUE   STORY  Women's   Group. 


s^  ^ujBJ^romd* 


VOTED  BEST  DRESSED 
WOMAM  OF 


Casual  Elegana 
Keynotes  NewColM 


The   cnnun'-'Tit.    '     '        u  !>■*»  '  v> f 

rni»  «»».■»   '  "mi""'™,„,  m.4dv  tr» 
„,  „,  the  »'"■-   "  ';  ;    ^     ,„    tfc.1    rail: 
r„,y';JW.  l*»  '  — 


the   pi 


niterst^")^ 


;r,L-,"ti-.  ik  i--r,';;';,.;'::,i\i;-Us»«Sb « <j 


^U-~'-i 


»»M*>iVJ.t,W^«"j'(»-,i'"' 


*»'«"><  *  *  °„  ^,^a.ri<abk.  *«  J 
M  eveo  *"  i1t  tiw  cenwr  to  t,,J*'ie  ^ 
'^Viwi'K  clirg"  counts.  W»^s  *' 


r>S«*l«i**'l,*rt  'f  J^n 


COSTUME  BY  JOHN   FREDERICS 


I  dreamed  I  crashed  the  headlines  in  my  7?l(lli^nfdV7%i?rCl 


Isn't  it  fitting!  I'm  so  high  in  fashion  circles, 
I'm  front  page  news  wherever  I  go!  Of  course 
I'm  supported  in  style  with  Concerto*  Tri-Line*, 
the  bra  that  gives  the  most  flattering  build-up  a 
woman  ever  had.  The  secret's  in  the  three-point 


miracle  straps  that  lift  and  accent  and  float  away 
every  hint  of  shoulder  strain.  And  the  circle- 
stitched  cups  hold  and  mold  curves  as  nothing 
else  can!  White  cotton  broadcloth  in  A,  B,  C 
and  D  cups.  3.50 


UDEN   FORM   BRASSIERE  CO.,  INC. 


*REO.    U.S. 


WHAT'S  NEW  ON  THE  EAST  COAST 


By  PETER  ABBOTT 


Talker  Gaten  Drake,   often   called   "radio's   most  convincing   voice,"   yields 
to   wife   Anne,   who   speaks   her   first   on-stage   lines   in    "Ziegfeld    Follies." 


For  What's  New  On  The  West  Coast,  See  Page  14 


"Romeo"    Ron    Randell   takes   himself 
a  Javanese  Juliet,  dancer  Laya  Raki 


Short  &  Sassy:  Mike  Wallace  ge 
thousands  of  letters  asking  that  he  put 
Elvis  on  the  grill,  but  Teddy  Bear 
says,  "No,  thank  you."  .  .  .  The  Dave 
Garroways  will  be  hosting  the  stork 
in  March.  .  .  .  Always  something  new, 
and  NBC-TV  is  scheduling  a  "spec" 
out  of  Las  Vegas  on  November  16.  A 
bra -maker  will  be  the  sponsor  and, 
if  the  show  holds  up,  will  sponsor 
again  from  the  desert  oasis.  .  .  .  Steve 
Allen  appears  to  have  the  inside  track 
to  Belafonte,  although  Harry  can  just 
about  write  his  own  terms  wherever 
he  decides  to  guest.  .  .  .  Women's 
gowns  will  get  sexier  this  season  on 
panel  shows.  Producers  expect  more 
than  brains  of  female  panelists.  Next 
year,  perhaps,  men  will  get  taller.  .  .  . 
What's  happening  to  Dorothy  Collins 
— looking  more  glamorous  and  grown- 
up and  going  to  Hollywood  to  play  a 
lead  in  pic,  "Mr.  Boston."  .  .  .  Cute 
Nina  Wilcox,  ingenue  in  Harbour- 
master, the  new  CBS-TV  adventure 
series,  becomes  an  October  bride. 
Groom  is  Mark  Merson,  casting  direc- 
tor at  CBS Gene  Sullivan,  Colum- 
bia recording  artist,  comes  up  with 
what  may  be  the  most  inspired  musical 
recording  of  the  season:  Pairing  of 
"Please  Pass  the  Biscuits"  and  "Wash 
Your  Feet  Before  Going  to  Bed." 

Fantabulous  He-Man :  Promising  en- 
try in  TV  excitement  is  the  brand- 
new  O.S.S.  series  starring  Ron  Randell. 
Australian-born  Ron  is  Americanized 
(drives  a  pink  convertible)  and  is  a 
V.I.P.  in  English  theatrical  circles. 
Actually,  he  commutes  between  New 
York,  London  and  Hollywood.  He  has 
made  many  movies  and  this  fall  he 
will  be  released  in  an  M-G-M  produc- 
tion. "Davey,"  in  which  he  plays  the 


Comic  Jerry  Lewis  is  singing  it  straight  again.  Eydie  Gorme  is  singing 
it  blue — ana1  watching  the  clock.  Her  TV  songs  keep  getting  ticked  off. 


Two  alter-egos  for  Jack  Webb.  Sgt.  Friday 
plays  it  cool,   but  Pete   Kelly  blows  it  hot. 


title  role  and,  also,  in  Joan  Crawford's 
"The  Golden  Virgin,"  in  which  he 
doesn't  play  the  title  role.  Throughout 
England,  Ron  is  famed  as  actor  and 
TV  personality.  Couple  of  years  ago, 
he  caused  a  furor  in  London.  He  was 
doing  the  John  Daly  bit  on  the  British 
version  of  What's  My  Line?  and 
signed  off  with  a  Dinah  Shore -type 
kiss.  This  public  display  of  affection 
so  startled  the  British  that  newspapers 
front-paged  the  story.  Ron  earned  the 
nickname  of  "Romeo"  and  kept  the 
title  by  squiring  international  beauties 
such  as  Rita  Hayworth,  Bettina,  et  al. 
But  this  past  August  he  married  a 
breathtaking  beauty,  Laya  Raki,  a 
Javanese  dancer.  Ron,  himself,  no 
pretty  boy,  is  under  six  feet,  has  short 
black  hair  and  brown  eyes.  But  his 
subtle  charm  and  boyish  quality,  it 
is  reported,  shatter  the  gals.  The 
stunts  he  is  required  to  do  in  O.S.S. 
are  so  dangerous  that  a  doctor  is  on 
the  set  during  some  of  the  shooting.  In 
one  week's  filming  in  London,  he  came 
close  to  eternity  three  times.  First,  he 
was  required  to  climb  hand-over- 
hand up  a  rope  to  the  top  of  a  bridge. 
Director  wasn't  satisfied  with  the  first 
three  takes  and,  on  the  fourth,  Ron 
lost  his  grip,  got  a  bad  rope  burn  and 
dangled  by  one  hand  until  the  crew 
moved  in  a  contraption  to  hold  him 
up.  Another  day,  he  was  riding  a 
kayak  down  river  in  full  uniform 
when  the  boat  turned  over.  Ron  got 
himself  zipped  out  only  just  in  time. 
Third  incident  occurred  when  faking 
a  bridge  explosion.  Dummy  bricks 
(weight  Vz.  pound)  were  dropped  from 
top  of  bridge  and  gathered  up  so 
much  speed  they  laid  Ron  out  cold.  So 
tune  in  Thursday,  ABC -TV,  at  9:30 
P.M.  Right  after  Pat  Boone. 


Inside  Out:  Billy  Graham  plans  for 
a  regular  TV  show  have  been 
scrapped.  Instead,  live  telecasts  will 
originate  when  and  wherever  a  cru- 
sade is  held.  .  .  .  Betty  Furness  opened 
in  Westport,  Connecticut,  in  one  of 
September's  last  summer-theater  try- 
outs.  Betty's  hoping  the  vehicle,  "Min- 
otaur," will  get  her  back  on  Broad- 
way. ...  If  you  missed  Charlie's 
brother,  John  Van  Doren,  on  High- 
Low,  it's  doubtful  you  will  see  him 
again.  He  didn't  score  like  good  old 
Charlie.  .  .  .  Mort  Lindsey,  Judy  John- 
son's hubby,  will  be  musical  director 
on  Pat  Boone's  new  show.  Inciden- 
tally, Pat  will  make  few  personal  ap- 
pearances during  the  TV-collegiate 
season,  but  he  will  be  in  Dallas  the 
12th  of  this  month.  .  .  .  Godfrey  will 
be  coaxed  back  to  night-time  TV  to 
do  holiday  spectaculars.  .  .  .  Networks 
have  dumped  any  plans  to  do  anything 
special  with  Calypso  themes.  Figure 
the  trend  is  trod.  .  .  .  Kathryn  Mur- 
ray's summer  show  went  over  the  top, 
making  the  top  ten  and  even  beating 
out  Ed  Sullivan's  show.  An  offer  of 
fall  time  for  the  show  was  made 
but  refused.  .  .  .  Shirley  MacLaine's 
brother,  a  very  good  actor  active  in 
New  York  TV,  hides  the  relationship, 
for  he  doesn't  want  people  to  think 
he's  trading  on  his  sister's  prestige. 
This  doesn't  make  much  sense.  No  one 
minds  that  the  present  John  Barry- 
more  is  a  junior  or  that  the  current 
Rin  Tin  Tin  is  a  grandson  of  the 
original.  And  now,  even  worse,  we 
can't  remember  what  brother's  name 
is.  (Editor's  Note:  It's  Warren  Beatty, 
which  is  Shirley's  real  surname.) 

The  Philosopher  &  The  Show  Girl: 

Renowned    Galen    Drake    has    been 


married  just  about  eight  years  to  the 
former  Anne  Shavers,  formerly  of 
Cleveland.  The  Drakes  have  two  chil- 
dren and  make  their  home  in  River- 
dale,  New  York,  where  Anne  blisses 
in  domesticity.  But  Anne  is  also  a 
showgirl,  chosen  "Miss  Ziegfeld  of 
1957."  She  is  a  redhead  with  gray- 
green  eyes,  one  of  the  nation's  true 
beauties.  Galen  reports,  "John  Robert 
Powers  told  me  that  Anne  was  the 
most  beautiful  model  he  ever  saw." 
Galen  and  Anne  met  in  a  rare  setting. 
Galen  recalls,  "I  was  sharing  an 
apartment  with  a  psychiatrist.  Same 
building  as  his  office  and  that's  where 
I  met  Anne.  She  was  waiting  for  the 
doctor,  for  mutual  friends  in  Cleve- 
land had  told  her  to  look  him  up  so- 
cially. But  I  thought  she  was  a  patient 
and  she  thought  I  was  one."  That  was 
in  July  of  '49,  and  six  months  later 
they  married.  Anne  became  a  suc- 
cessful model,  but  acting  has  been  her 
ambition  since  she  was  three.  She  got 
her  foothold  in  theater  by  becoming  a 
showgirl  with  lines  in  some  of  the 
skits  of  the  current  "Ziegfeld  Follies." 
Yet,  with  all  the  ambition,  she  is  quite 
a  homebody,  wholly  devoted  to  her 
children.  At  present,  Mrs.  Galen 
Drake  is  on  a  limited  tour  with  the 
"Ziegfeld  Follies"  and  you'll  find  her 
billed  as  "Anne  Drake." 

Silver  Threads  Among  the  Brass:  A 

guy  named  Sgt.  Bilko,  alias  Phil  Sil- 
vers, got  the  idea  he  wanted  to  make 
an    album    dedicated    to    the    Army 
bugle,  and  he  did  and  it  swings  like 
the  gates  of  heaven.    He  got  a  mess  of        T 
cool    Gabriels    blasting    at    arrange-        V 
ments  by   Nelson   Riddle.      Columbia        B 
titles   it,   "Phil  Silvers   and  Swinging 
Brass."  .  .  .   (Continued  on  page  11) 

5 


Kentucky  Cadence 

Please  give  me  some  information  about 
The  Everly  Brothers  whom  I've  seen 
on  TV. 

D.S.,   Springfield,   Mass. 

You  have  indeed  seen  them  on  tele- 
vision. At  this  writing,  the  Everly  Broth- 
ers have  appeared  three  times  on  the  Ed 
Sullivan  show,  twice  on  Big  Beat,  at  least 
once  on  the  Vic  Damone  and  Julius  La 
Rosa  shows  and  numerous  others.  And, 
of  course,  they  are  regulars  on  Grand  Ole 
Opry.  ...  It  all  started  on  February  1, 
1937,  when  elder  brother  Don  was  born  in 
Brownie,  Kentucky.  Phil  arrived  not  quite 
two  years  later,  on  January  19,  1939.  Their 
parents  were  both  musical  and,  though 
they've  retired  now,  they  were  active  for 
years  in  the  country-music  field.  In  fact, 
the  boys'  dad  was  reared  with  Merle 
Travis  and  worked  with  him  for  some 
time.  Don  and  Phil  were  only  eight  and 
six  respectively  when  their  parents  in- 
cluded them  on  their  "live"  show  over 
KMA  in  Shenandoah,  Towa.  Since  then, 
the  four  Everlys  have  played  and  sung  all 
over  the  country  as  a  family  group.  .  .  . 
Arriving  in  Knoxville  a  few  years  ago,  the 
parents  decided  to  retire  and  make  a  home 
in  one  place  so  that  Don  and  Phil  could 
finish  their  education.  Once  the  book 
larnin'  was  accomplished,  the  brothers 
took  off  for  Nashville  to  test  their  chances 
for  recording  a  single.  Their  friend,  Chet 
Atkins,  knew  talent  when  he  heard  it  and 
it  was  through  him  they  were  signed  by 
Archie  Bleyer  for  his  new  country-and- 
Western  department  of  the  successful 
Cadence  label.  Their  first  platter,  "Bye 
Bye  Love,"  was  a  hit  in  three  fields,  pop 
and  rock  'n'  roll  as  well  as  country,  and 
that's  fair  proof  of  the  boys'  versatility. 
"Wake  Up,  Little  Susie,"  their  second 
contender,  is  waking  "Little  Susie"  with 


Don  and  Phil  Everly 


a  bang.  Sometimes  taken  for  twins,  Don 
and  Phil  look  very  much  alike.  Both  stand 
5  feet  10  inches  and  weigh  in  at  150 
pounds.  They  live  in  Madison  and  work 
out  of  Nashville,  but  they're  seen  and 
heard  all  over  the  land. 

A  Sailor's  Life 

/  would  like  some  information  on  Max- 
well Reed,  who  stars  as  Captain  David 
Grief  on  TV. 

R.N.,  Berkeley,  Calif. 

Maxwell  Reed's  casting  as  star  of  the 
Captain  David  Grief  series  is  no  acci- 
dental authenticity.  The  producers  of  the 
series  based  on  the  Jack  London  stories 
searched  the  world  over  for  a  seaman-actor 
such  as  Maxwell,  then  discovered  he'd 
been  right  there  in  California  all  the  while. 
.  .  .  Though  just  34,  the  licensed  merchant- 
captain  has  had  a  very  adventurous  life. 
Born  in  London,  Maxwell  was  barely  out 
of  school  when  he  decided  the  cure  for  his 
wanderlust  was  a  life  at  sea.  Within  a  year 
of  his  hiring  on  board  a  tramp  steamer  as 
an  ordinary  seaman,  World  War  II  was 
declared  and  all  merchant  mariners  were 
"frozen"  to  their  jobs.  Maxwell  was  on 
ships  which  were  torpedoed  and  once 
floated  ten  days  in  a  raft  off  the  coast  of 
Ireland.  .  .  .  The  freeze  for  the  duration 
proved  a  good  therapy  for  Reed's  wander- 
lust. When  the  happy  "thaw"  started, 
Maxwell  enrolled  post  haste  at  the  Royal 
Academy  of  Dramatic  Arts.  When  Old 
Vic  called,  he  had  the  chance  to  play  with 
the  greats  of  the  London  stage — Olivier, 
Ralph  Richardson,  Dame  Sybil  Thorndike. 
His  movie  credits  commence  with  "Day- 
break" and  go  on  to  the  role  of  Ajax  in 
the  Warner  Bros.'  production  of  "Helen 
of  Troy."  In  '56,  Reed,  remembering  a 
Hollywood  visit  of  some  years'  before  and 
his  liking  for  the  "climate,  people,  and 
pace,"  procured  a  regular  immigrant  visa 
and  applied  for  U.S.  citizenship. 

Facing  the  Music 

/  would  like  to  know  something  about 

Don  Agrati  of  The  Mickey  Mouse  Club. 

J.K.,  Mishawaka,  Ind. 

One  of  the  latest  additions  to  the  Mouse- 
keteer  fellowship  is  a  thirteen-year-old 
California  lad  of  many  talents,  Don  Agrati. 
Don's  specialty -on  the  Mickey  Mouse  Club 
programs  is  tap  dance  and  modern  ballet, 
but  enormous  musical  versatility  such  as 
Don's  won't  stay  put  in  a  single  specialty. 
As  a  dancer,  Don  moves  well;  as  a  musi- 
cian, he  sounds  well  on  the  accordion, 
ukulele,  clarinet,  trumpet,  drums,  piano, 
the  harmonica  and — remember  the  sweet 
potato? — the  ocarina.  .  .  .  There's  partial 
explanation  for  this  75-pound.  56-inch 
brimful  of  musical  abilities  in  the  fact  that 
Don  "faced  the  music"  at  age  two-and- 
a-half.  Born  in  San  Diego  on  June  8  of 
1944,  the  light-haired,  blue-eyed  youngster 


Don  Agrati 

is  the  son  of  Louis  and  Mary  Agrati,  both 
entertainers.  Don,  their  first-born,  made 
beating  the  drums  his  pre-nursery  school 
specialty.  ...  At  three-and-a-half,  the 
toddler  was  taking  his  singing  and  danc- 
ing lessons  as  regularly  as  vitamin  pills. 
At  nine,  he  had  a  year's  instruction  on  the 
accordion  and  began  playing  at  civic  and 
fraternal  doings.  While  living  in  Lafayette, 
near  San  Francisco,  Don  organized  an 
orchestra,  "The  Junior  Sharps,"  and  ar- 
ranged, composed  and  conducted  for  the 
eight-"man"  group.  But  Don  has  the 
nucleus  for  a  junior-senior  orchestra  right 
at  home,  where  the  whole  Agrati  family  is 
musical — parents,  sisters  Marilou,  9,  and 
Lani,  two-and-a-half.  No  wonder  that  Don, 
a  straight-A  student  in  seventh  grade,  lists 
"music  and  dancing"  as  favorite  hobbies. 

The  High  Road 

Would  you  please  give  me  some  infor- 
mation on  Jeff  Morrow,  who  appears  in 
many   TV  plays? 

K.S.,  St.  Petersburg,  Fla. 

Though  seen  from  time  to  time  on  the 
syndicated  television  series  Crossroads.  Jeff 
Morrow  is  well  past  the  crossroads  in  his 
career.  He's  on  the  high  road  to  success. 
Jeff  debuted  as  Tybalt  in  the  '36  Broadway 
production  of  "Romeo  and  Juliet"  that 
starred  Katharine  Cornell.  Roles  in  two 
Saroyan  plays  led  to  his  initial  screen 
offer,  but  Pearl  Harbor  intervened.  Jeff 
took  on  a  very  "straight"  role,  served  in 
the  Air  Corps  for  three  years  before  re- 
turning to  the  Great  White  Way.  His  first 
memorable  screen  performance  was  as  the 
scarred,  bearded  and  half-blind  centurion 
in  "The  Robe."  ...  In  "Tanganyika,"  Jeff 
played  the  half-mad  African  outcast.  Other 
films  have  cast  Jeff  as  a  cowboy,  comic 
heavy,  and  wealthy  industrialist.  He  was 
radio's  Dick  Tracy  for  two  years,  played 
innumerable  leads  in  TV  dramas  for  U.S. 
Steel  Hour,  Cavalcade  Of  America  and 
other  series.  Jeff's  rich  and  rugged  voice 
and  tall,  dignified  good  looks  make  him  a 
natural  for  clergymen  roles  in  Crossroads 


Jeff  Morrow 


and  for  the  Abraham  Lincoln  portrayal 
on  You  Are  There.  .  .  .  The  brown-eyed, 
black-haired,  180-pound  actor  is  a  sort  of 
walking  embodiment  of  the  United 
Nations.  On  his  father's  side,  he's  English- 
Scottish-Irish ;  on  his  mother's,  French- 
Swiss-German.  Where  the  thespian  leanings 
derived  from  is  still  something  of  a 
mystery.  Jeff  went  to  school  in  Brooklyn, 
graduating  from  the  Manual  Training 
High  School.  After  two  years  at  Pratt 
Institute,  he  worked  as  a  commercial  illus- 
trator to  pay  for  drama  school.  .  .  . 
Morrow  is  married  to  the  former  Broad- 
way actress,  Anna  Karen.  They  have  an 
eleven-year-old  daughter,  Lissa,  and  live 
in  Sherman  Oaks.  By  the  way,  don't  try 
to  light  Jeff's  cigarette  for  him.  He  gave 
up  the  habit,  but  still  carries  one — un- 
lighted — as  a  sort  of  prop.  He  has  no 
intention  of  smoking  it. 

Calling  All  Fans 

The  following  fan  clubs  invite  new  mem- 
bers. If  you  are  interested,  write  to 
address  given — not  to  TV  Radio  Mirror. 

Elvis  Presley  Fan  Club,  c/o  Wanda  L. 
Grubb,  504  Moody  Ave.,  Bradford,  Ohio. 

Darlene  Gillespie  Fan  Club,  c/o  Bill 
Ziebach,  Rt.  2,  Box  551,  Theodore,  Ala. 

National  Lennon  Sisters  Fan  Club,  c/o 
Jacquie  Tufts,  Secretary,  4495  East  Clin- 
ton Ave.,    Fresno   3,    California. 


FOR  YOUR  INFORMATION— If  there's 
something  you  want  to  know  about  radio 
and  television,  write  to  Information  Booth, 
TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East  42nd  St.,  New 
York  17,  N.  Y.  We'll  answer,  if  we  can, 
provided  your  question,  is  of  general  inter- 
est. Answers  will  appear  in  this  column — 
but  be  sure  to  attach  this  box  to  your 
letter,  and  specify  whether  your  question 
concerns  radio  or  TV. 


More  grown-ups  and  growing-ups 

depend  on  Mum  than  on  any  other  deodorant 


,/ 


%*..  , 


PRODUCT  OF 


New 


...  fc>.. 

stops  odor... 
without  irritation 


So  gentle  for  any  normal  skin  you  can  use  it  every  day 


if 


If  you've  ever  worried  about  under- 
arm stinging  or  burning  from  using 
a  deodorant  daily— or  right  after  shav- 
ing or  a  hot  bath— you  can  set  your 
mind  at  ease.  New  Mum  Cream  is  so 
gentle  for  normal  skin,  you  can  use 
it  whenever  you  please. 

Mum  Cream  gives  you  the  kind 
of  protection  you  can't  possibly  get 
from  any  other  leading  deodorant— 
because  it  works  a  completely  differ- 
ent way.  Mum  Cream  is  the  only 
leading    deodorant    that   works   en- 


tirely by  stopping  odor  . .  .  contains 
no  astringent  aluminum  salts.  And  it 
keeps  on  working  actively  to  stop 
odor  24  hours  a  day  with  M-3  — 
Mum's  wonderful  hexachlorophene 
that  destroys  both  odor  and  odor- 
causing  bacteria!  When  Mum  is  so 
effective  —  yet  so  gentle  — isn't  it  the 
deodorant  for  you?  Try  new  Mum 
Cream  today. 


MUM®contains  M-3  (1Z3£5&?) 

...stops  odor  24  hours  a  day 


17j9  wittt  tttG   GJi icf Jcens 

Jack  O'Reilly,  WPEN's  man  of  the  morning,   loves  those  farmer  s  hours! 


The  wake-up  man  at  Station  WPEN,  Jack 
O'Reilly  grew  up  in  Brooklyn,  but  he  is 
willing  to  leave  that  box-ough  to  the  Dodgers 
(who  may  leave  it  any  day  themselves).  Jack 
likes  his  ground  unpaved,  his  grass  green, 
his   air   fresh,   and  his   hours   early.   The 
farmer's  life  is  for  him.  And,  now  that 
he's    helping   Philadelphians    to    rise    and 
shine,  six  days  a  week,  from  five  to  nine  ayem, 
Jack  feels  that  for  the  first  time  in 
years  he  has  "decent  working  hours."  .   .  . 
This  means  that  Jack  now  rises  at  3:30 
each   morning,   in   time   to   feed   his   cattle, 
dogs    and    chickens,    and    then    drive    the 
thirty-six  miles  from  his   Bucks    County   farm 
to   Philadelphia.    He    also    free-lances    in 
radio  and  TV  in  New  York.  This  time  last 
year,   Jack   was   commuting   to    New   York   six 
times   a   week   to   handle   shows,   particularly 
college  and  pro  football  games,  for  Mutual 
and   WOR-TV.    This    year,    only    an    occasional 
film  job  in  New  York  keeps  Jack  from  his 
family  and  from  the  chores  on  his  beloved 
farm.  .  .  .  Born  in  Glen  Ridge,  New  Jersey,  Jack 
grew  up  in  Brooklyn  and,  while  at  Brooklyn 
Prep,    was    football    quarterback,    a    national 
quarter-mile   champion   and  held  the   New   York 
State   backstroke   record.    Dramatics    and 
debating  were  keen  interests  of  his,  too, 
as  Jack   studied   at   Georgetown   University. 
Jack's  dad  was  a  well-known  after-dinner 
speaker  and  his  grandfather  was  a   diplomat. 
Jack  was  just  following  family  tradition 
in  speechifying  when  he  won  the  NBC  Announcing 
School  audition  to  act  as  a  junior  announcer 
in  New  York,  assisting  Bill  Stern  in  sports  at 
the   same   time.   After   fifteen   years    of 
around-the-clock  shows,  Jack  has  made  a  host 
of  show-business  friends,  many  of  whom  guest 
on  his  program.  Jack  has  one  special  favorite, 
Guy  Lombardo,  for  whom  he  was  personal  an- 
nouncer on  radio  for  ten  years.  .  .  .  Another  very 
special  friend  was  made  when  Jack  was  in  prep 
school.  A  little  girl  named  Marguerite  proved  she 
could  play  tennis,  swim  and  run  as  fast  as  any 
boy,  so  she  was  permitted  to  tag  along  when 
Jack  and  the  older  boys  went  on  hunting 
and   fishing   expeditions   on   Long    Island. 
Then  Jack  went  off  to  college  and  various 
radio  jobs.   But  auld  lang  syne   was   not 
forgotten.    Some    years    later,    while    doing 
a  morning  show  at  WNEW  in  New  York,  Jack 
received  a  call  from  the  little  tomboy  who  had 
grown   up.   One  date  followed   another,    right  up 
to  the  wedding  date.  .  .  .  The  O'Reillys'  farm 
was  originally  built  in  the  late  1780's  and, 
although  Jack   and   Marguerite   have   modernized 
it,  they  have  kept  the  gracious  Colonial  feel- 
ing.  With   their   children — Marguerite,    10,   Jay, 
8,    and   Robby,    6 — the    O'Reillys   have   made   the 
farm  the  greater  part  of  the  their  life.  They 
also  raise  English  setters  for  show  and  hunting 
purposes  and  many  of  the  dogs  are  blue- 
ribbon  champions.  As  a  farmer — or  as  a 
radio  personality — you'd  have  to  get  up 
early  in  the  morning  to  beat  Jack  O'Reilly. 


Records  are  part  of  the  program  at  home,  too,  as  well 
as  on  Jack's  morning  wake-up  show  for  Philadelphians. 


Music    is    "live"    as    daughter    Marguerite    strums,    wife 
Marguerite  plays  piano,  and  Robby,  Jay  and  Jack  sing. 


Farmer  Jack  feeds  his  livestock  before  he  drives  to  the  city  to  become  a  deejay. 
He's  back  at  the  Bucks  County  farm  in  time  to  go  hunting  with  his  son  Jay,  wife 
Marguerite  and  the  champion  English  setters  they  raise — or  to  check  on  the  cattle. 


Greenwich  Village  is  my  hobby,  Art  has  always  said.  Now,  it's  his  job,  too,  as  he  tours  its 
streets  for  talent,  finds  such  newcomers  as  dancer  Nancy  Miller.  Those  Art  didn't  find 
himself  sought  him  out  in  the  "office"  he  set  up  at  a  table  in  Rienzi's  famous  coffee  shop. 


Art  Ford  searches  for  talent 
for  his  Greenwich  Village  Party 

The  forty-foot  midtown  living  room 
that  is  home  to  Art  Ford  has,  at  one 
time  or  another,  also  been  the  resi- 
dence of  such  offbeat  pets  as  a  lion 
cub,  an  ocelot,  an  antelope  and  a  dik- 
dik.  "Wild  animals  are  to  domestic 
animals  what  show-business  people  are 
to  ordinary  people,"  says  Art.  "They 
have  more  spirit,  more  tension,  more 
fun.  I  watch  them,  study  them — and  I 
like  their  excitement."  Familiar  to  New 
Yorkers  as  host  of  WNEW's  Make 
Believe  Ballroom  and  as  a  frequent 
panelist  on  WABD's  Entertainment 
Press  Conference,  Art  claims  that  he's 
quieter,  more  relaxed,  less  of  an  ex- 
trovert than  most  of  his  performing 
confreres.  "But  it's  the  'ordinary'  peo- 
ple," he  explains,  "who  find  the  show- 
business  people  most  interesting."  Thus 
Art  toured  Greenwich  Village  in  search 
of  new  and  different  talent  in  show 
business  and  all  the  lively  arts.  He'll 
star  the  discoveries  over  WABD,  each 
Friday  at  10  P.M.  on  Greenwich  Village 
Party.    Everyone's  invited. 


All  the  arts  are  invited  to  the  Party.  Each  week, 
there'll  be  a  showing,  with  mood  music  to  fit, 
by  such  Villagers  as  painter  Vincent  Graccino. 


10 


Young  Ellen  Adler  auditions  at  the  Folk  Lore  Cen- 
ter. Art  plans  an  all-city  TV  audience  for  the 
songs  that  have  made  Ellen  the  talk  of  downtown. 


At  their  Mexican  art  shop  on  MacDougal  St., 
Art  queries  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Al  Bonk  for  leads 
on  talent,  meets  their  pet  monkey,  "Hamlet." 


Art's  loge  is  a  window,  one  flight  up,  as 
Lorri  Scott,  a  dancer  too,  beats  the  bongos 
for  the  al  fresco   leaps  of  Audrey   Lowell. 


What's  New  on  the  East  Coast 


(Continued  from  page  5) 


More  TV  in  hi-fi  with  Dragnet's  Jack 
Webb  harking  back  to  his  favorite  fic- 
titious character,  Pete  Kelly.  Pete  is 
Webb  and  vice-versa.  What  Pete,  or 
Jack  Webb,  did  was  order  in  eight 
Dixieland  sidemen  and  six  pounds  of 
pastrami.  Jack  picked  out  twelve  great 
tunes  and  the  boys  began  blowing  at 
six  P.  M.  and  knocked  off  at  dawn. 
Victor  calls  the  result,  "Pete  Kelly  at 
Home."  ...  So  fantastic  was  the  success 
of  Jerry  Lewis's  first  straight-song  al- 
bum that  Decca  has  issued  more  of  the 
same  and  logically  titled  it,  "More 
Jerry  Lewis."  It's  like  a  second  helping 
of  your  favorite  dish. 

Money,  Marriage,  Murder,  Etc.: 

Speaking  of  $$$,  Victor  Borge  gets 
$200,000  for  his  February  show— but,  of 
course,  he  has  to  bring  his  own  music. 
.  .  .  Lovely  Helen  O'Connell  and  her 
three  daughters  return  from  Hollywood 
vacation  on  October  7.  .  .  .  Bells  ring 
for  vocalist  Betty  Johnson  October  4. 
Betty  and  bridegroom  Charles  Grean, 
her  manager,  take  two-week  honey- 
moon abroad.  .  .  .  Speaking  of  TV  pro- 
gramming, Madison  Avenue  mumblings 
indicate  the  next  dramatic  trend  will 
be  toward  horror.  Next  year,  watch  for 
blood  to  spill  out  of  your  screen.  .  .  . 
Toll-TV  running  into  all  kinds  of  ex- 
pensive problems.  You  could  get  bald 
waiting  for  it.  .  .  .  Walter  Cronkite,  al- 
ready the  possessor  of  two  young  fe- 
males, got  himself  a  male  heir  whom  he 
duly  named  Walter  Leland  Cronkite  III 
and  then  remarked,  "With  a  moniker 
like  that  he  can't  miss  getting  into  an 
Ivy  League  school."  .  .  .  Garroway  gang 
worried  about  their  crew-cut  buddy, 
Kokomo,  Jr.  Chimps  are  particularly 
vulnerable  to  respiratory  diseases  such 
as  Asiatic  flu.  .  .  .  Jack  Paar's  & 
Monitor's  weather  gal,  Tedi  Thurman, 
whose  voice  is  to  radio  what  Jayne 
Mansfield's  sweater  is  to  movies,  favors 
Dick  Kent  for  dating. 

Arf  &  Ouch:  Showmanship  on  inde- 
pendent radio  stations  still  tops  the 
networks.  Cleveland's  Bill  Randle,  of 
WERE,  continued  to  deejay  his  show 
while  in  hospital  for  facial  surgery.  His 
show  goes  on  in  the  P.M.,  so  the  opera- 
tions (two  of  them)  were  scheduled 
for  mornings,  when  the  surgeon  would 
be  least  in  the  way.  The  plastic  surgery 
was  not  Randle's  attempt  to  correct 
nature's  errors  but  rather  to  remove 
scars  suffered  in  a  series  of  racing-car 
accidents.  Randle  has  no  intention  of 
giving  up  racing,  radio  or  surgery.  No 
dullard,  he.  .  .  .  By  comparison,  a  dog's 
life  is  rather  tedious.  Take  handsome, 
lithe  Steverino,  the  greyhound  on  Steve 
Allen's  stanza.  Steverino  has  no  trouble 
getting  a  vacation  or  taking  time  off  to 
get  over  a  head  cold.  Steverino  has  a 
stand-in.  Seems  that  when  the  agency 
went  looking  for  a  greyhound  they  went 
nuts,  for  the  breed  isn't  plentiful  in 
this  country.  Just  a  couple  days  before 
they  went  on  the  air,  a  pair  arrived 
from    Kansas    City.    Incidentally,    and 


Pup    Steverino    has    a    stand-in — and 
a    "stage   mother,"    Debbie,    besides. 

this  is  very  confidential,  but  Steverino 
and  his  stand-in  are  not  really  brothers. 
They're  really  sisters. 

Singing  the  Blues:  The  predicted 
mortality  rate  of  TV  singers  would 
freeze  your  blood  into  cubes,  but  a  lot 
of  people  think  Guy  Mitchell  is  the 
season's  dark-horse  entry.  He  could 
emerge  the  top  name  of  the  year,  for  he 
has  an  elfin  energy  that  may  make  the 
bland,  relaxed  boys  look  like  wallflow- 
ers. ...  A  lot  of  people  bothered 
over  Nat  Cole's  sponsor  troubles.  His 
ratings  are  high,  his  guests  are  top 
drawer,  and  he's  scheduled  in  Class  A 
time,  but  there's  no  sponsor.  Why?  .  .  . 
The  only  female  TV  personality  to  be 
named  anywhere  in  the  Jazz  Critics' 
Poll  conducted  by  Downbeat  magazine 
was  Eydie  Gorme.  The  winner  was  Ella 
Fitzgerald.  The  male  winner  was  the 
Slender  Sender,  with  Satchmo  a  lag- 
ging runner-up.  But,  getting  back  to 
Eydie,  the  gal  has  been  having  her 
blues.  The  big  Edsel  Show  on  October 
13,  which  stars  Crosby  and  Sinatra, 
asked  Eydie  aboard.  She  turned  it 
down  and  rumor  was  that  she  wanted 
more  money,  more  than  the  $2,500  they 
offered.  Some  guys  thought  she  was 
nuts  to  turn  down  a  chance  to  sing  with 
the  Groaner  and  the  Sender  for  the 
sake  of  money,  but  dollars  weren't  the 
problem.  All  Eydie  wanted  was  a  guar- 
antee that  she'd  get  three  minutes. 
Seems  that  on  the  last  big  Jerry  Lewis 
show  she  was  promised  three  and  got 
cut  short  when  show  ran  long.  On  a 
Como  show,  it  was  worse.  There  were 
some  Hollywood  stars  ahead  of  her  and 
everything  was  so  late  she  didn't  even 
get  to  show  her  pretty  face.  So  that's 
all  Eydie  asked  of  the  Edsel  producer — 
a  three-minute  guarantee  in  writing. 
Anyway,  Eydie  has  already  made  a 
September  showing  with  Steve  Allen 
and  guests  with  Patti  on  The  Big 
Record  come  November  20.  .  .  .  Abbe 
Lane  will  only  guest-shot  on  TV  this 
year,  for  she  has  a  big  part  in  a  big  up- 
coming Broadway  musical,  "Captain's 
Paradise."  And,  in  concluding,  would  it 
be  fair  to  say  that  Abbe  Lane  has  the 
kind  of  voice  that  has  to  be  seen??? 


Use  your  good 
common  sense! 

Think!  Think  how  you  had  to  struggle, 
struggle,  struggle  with  that  miserable 
belt-pin-pad  contraption  last  month  and 
last  year  and  all  the  times  before  that! 
Think  how  uncomfortable  it  was!  Does 
it  make  sense  to  go  on  and  on  when 
millions  of  Tampax  users  say  they  almost 
forget  about  time  of  the  month? 

Tampax®  internal  sanitary  protection 
makes  things  so  much  simpler  for  you. 
Since  Tampax  is  worn  internally,  odor 
can't  form.  What's  more,  nothing  can 
show.  You  can  shower  or  bathe.  Tampax 
won't  absorb  any  water.  There  are  no 
disposal  problems  with  Tampax.  No 
carrying  problems  either.  A  supply  of 
Tampax  can  be  slipped  into  your  very 
smallest  handbag. 

It  makes  sense  to  use  the  easy  way — 
the  Tampax  way.  Choose  from  three  ab- 
sorbencies  (Regular,  Super,  Junior) 
wherever  drug  products  are  sold.  Tampax 
Incorporated,  Palmer,  Mass. 


Invented  by  a  doctor — 
now  used  by  millions  of  women 


11 


They're  personal  friends,  says 
Mark  Evans  of  the  WTOP  viewers 
and  listeners  he  invites  for    .    .    . 

THAT  SECOND 
CUP  OF  COFFEE 


Mark's  style   is   easy  and   his   manner   casual.     His   humor   is 
quick  as  he  trades  quips  with  newscaster  Roger  Mudd,  right. 


12 


Good  things  come  in  threes.    On  the  air,  that's  the  number  of 
Mark's  shows.    Home,  it's  three  girls — Nancy,  Penny,  Wendy. 


Guest  stars  such  as  Kim  Novak  shine  early 
in  the  morning  for  their  host,  Mark  Evans. 


There  were  some  doubts  about  Pano- 
rama Potomac,  but  emcee  Mark  Evans 
insists    they    weren't   his.    Seen   week- 
days from  8  to  9  A.M.  on  Washington's 
Station  WTOP-TV,  this  program  features 
unusual  and  informative  local,  national 
and  international  stories  and  features; 
stories  for  youngsters;  films  of  local  news; 
and  guest  stars.  But,  when  it  was  first 
scheduled,  the  upper  echelons  buzzed  with 
questions.   Would  viewers,   accustomed 
to  network  productions  and  nationally- 
known  television  figures,  take  to  a  locally 
produced  program?  Did  enough  top-rate 
material  and  capable  performers  exist 
locally  to  sustain  such  a  program?  Would 
sponsors  like  the  idea?  Mark  answered 
yes — and   the   ratings  have  backed  him 
up.  ...  A  man  with  a  strong  conviction 
that  his  audience  is  made  up  of  per- 
sonal friends,  Mark  Evans  was  the  man 
who  should  have  known.  He  learned  the 
art  of  reaching  the  public  with  a  sponsor's 
message  in  a  most  unique  manner — as  a 
church  missionary.  He  entered  broadcast- 
ing on  the  advice  of  a  college  professor. 
"My  TV  debut  to  the  nation,"  he  recalls, 
"was  made  over  a  cup  of  well-known 
coffee.  They  had  insisted  on  tremendous 
heat  for  my  'steaming'  cup  of  coffee  ...  I 
smiled   from  here   to   San  Francisco,   I 
adored  the  aroma,  I  savored  the  flavor. 
As  I  proceeded  to  sip,  I  looked  down  at 
the  cup  and  found  the  intense  heat  had 
melted  the  plastic  and  glaring  up  at  me 
was  a  mixture  of  paint  and  coffee!"  .  .  . 
Currently,  Mark's  Panorama  Potomac 
is   encouraging   people   to   linger   by   the 
TV  set  for  a  second  cup  of  coffee.  He's 
around  for  the  first  one,  over  WTOP 
Radio,  with  Sunrise  Salute,  heard  week- 
days from  6  to  7:30  A.M.,  and  he's  the 
voice    of    the    Housewives'    Protective 
League,  weekdays  at  1:30  PJVL  .  .  . 
Mark  and  his  wife  Lola  have  three  young 
daughters  to  keep  them  hopping  and 
Mark,  an  energetic  man,  somehow  man- 
ages to  stretch  the  hours  to  fit  in  such 
hobbies  as  travel,  golf,  hunting  and  fish- 
ing. Born  in  Ogden,  Utah,  Mark  came  to 
Washington  in  1945  and  has  been  active 
in  its  community  affairs  from  the  first. 
In  the  capital,  Mark  Evans  is  capital. 


i  1 


18  GLAMOR-AIDS 


FACIAL  BEAUTY 

TO  GLAMORIZE  YOUR  LIPS... 
YOUR  EYES ..  .YOUR  EYEBROWS 


ALL    18    YOURS    FOR 

THE  MIRACLE  PRICE   OF 


Once  In  A  Lifetime  Offer  that  can  Change  your  Whole  Appearance. 
Not  10,  not  15,  but  18  thrilling  Beauty  Aids  at  the  sensational  price  of 
$1.00.  Each  one  promising  you  alluring  enchantment . . .  The  Expensive 
"Beauty  Shop"  Look  Every  Day. 

Study  each  one  of  the  18  separate  beauty  aids  in  this  amazing  $1.00 
offer.  Picture  the  breath-taking  change  they'll  make  in  your  appear- 
ance the  very  day  you  receive  them.  Then  try  these  18  individual  beauty 
essentials  entirely  at  our  risk.  You  must  be  completely  delighted  in 
every  way  or  you  receive  every  penny  of  the  purchase  price  back. 

Beauty  Essentials  #  I  and  #2:  Your  choice  of  2  Patricia  de  Paree 
stay-on  lipsticks.  You  can  have  one  for  daylight 
excitement,  one  for  romance-filled  evenings. 

1.  ORANGE  —  A  sun-kissed  color  charred  with  excitement; 

2.  SCARLET  —  High-voltage  red  with  electrifying  appeal; 

3.  RASPBERRY  —   Luscious  as  sun-warmed  berries; 

4.  PETAL  —  Petal  pink  .  .  .  youthful  and  enchanting; 

5.  ROSETTE  —  Press  a  rose  petal  to  your  lips ; 

6.  MAGIC  RED  —  Eve  knew  its  secret; 

7.  CYCLAMEN  —  Pulsating  hue  with  tremendous  lavender  impact. 

The  2  lipsticks  alone  are  worth  $1.00,  but  they  are  only  a  small  part  of 
this  sensational  $1.00  offer. 

Your  choice  of  one  of  the  3  special  Patricia  de  Paree  Lip  Lining 
Pencils.  The  type  used  by  Hollywood  make-up  men  on  Movie  Stars  to 
make  the  perfect  pencil  outline  needed  for  teasing  lips. 

1.  PINK;  2.  MEDIUM  RED;  3.  DARK  RED. 

The  special  Lip  Lining  Pencil  is  yours  not  for  $1.00  itself,  but  as  l/18th 
of  this  seesational  $1.00  offer. 

Beauty  Essential  #4:  Your  choice  of  one  of  the  5  Patricia  de  Paree 
professional  Eye  Lid  Lining  Pencils.  Glamourous  women  use  it  to 

dramatize  eyes,  bring  out  every 

<*"■'  --'-    '  ""^Si^^^^^^^***  bit  of  the  hidden  excitement 

lurking  in  their  depths. 

1.  BLUE  —  A  beautiful  blue  that  harmonizes  with  shadows, 

2.  GRAY  —  For  the  conservative  lass  who  needs  no  color. 

3.  SILVER  —  For  the  girl  who  wants  to  be  different. 

4.  BLACK  —  A  standard  color  for  all  occasions. 

5.  GREEN  —  Dramatic,  the  latest  fashion. 

This  special  Eye  Lid  Lining  Pencil  is  yours  not  for  $1.00  itself  but  as 

only  1/lSth  of  this  sensational  $1.00  offer. 

Beauty  Essential  #5: 

Your  choice  of  one  of  the  5  famous 

Patricia  de  Paree  Hollywood  Eyebrow  Pencils. 

Choose  the  exciting  color  that  blends  into  your  personality. 

You'll  love  the  natural  look  of  your  glamourous  new  eyebrows. 

Your  friends  will  be  amazed  at  your  "Beauty  Pallor"  appearance. 

1.  LIGHT  BROWN,  2.  MEDIUM  BROWN.  3.  DARK  BROWN74.  AUBURN,  5.  BLACK 

This  special  Eyebrow  Pencil  is  yours,  not  for  $1.00  itself,  but  as  only 
l/18th  of  this  sensational  $1.00  offer. 


Beauty  Essentials  #6  —  #11: 

You  receive  6  exquisite  Lip  Outline  Forms.  The  type 
make-up  men  use  on  Movie  Stars  to  change  their  lips  to ' 
fit  the  mood  of  the  picture.  Do  you  feel  provocative,  gay,\ 
carefree,  serious?  It  will  be  easy  to  change  yourr 
lips  to  ma'ch  your  mood.  There's  a  Lip  Outline 
for  each.  You've  seen  these  Lip  Forms  advertised  \ 
for  $1.00  alone.  Now  they  are  yours  as  just  one 
.small  part  of  this  sensational  $1.00  offer. 

Beauty  Essentials  #12  —  #17: 

Six  specially  designed  Eyebrow  Outlines. 
The  perfect  mates  to  the  Lip  Forms.  In  seconds  you 
create  chic,  perfect  eyebrows,  matching  your 
glamourous  personality.  Six  different  Eyebrow  Forms 
to  add  just  the  right  touch  for  any  occasion.  You've 
seen  these  Eyebrow  Forms  advertised  for  $1.00  alone, 
Now  they  are  yours  as  just  one  small  part 
of  this  sensational  $1.00  offer. 


Beauty  Essential  #18:  A  Beauty  Course  designed  by 
Patricia  de  Paree,  beauty  consultant  to  the  most  glamourous 
women  in  the  world.  Jammed  with  beauty  hints  and 
information  showing  you  the  professional  way  to  determine 

your  type  of  face proper  make-up  and  hair  styling  for 

each  of  the  7  basics ;  technique  for  perfect  lip  shaping, 

eye  lining;  adding  the  doe-eye  dash;  applying  eye  shadow;  ^M^^T 

mascara  techniques;  eye  shadow  coloring;  and  ^Ki 

creating  the  perfect  brow  outline. 

Forget  about  expensive  Beauty  Parlor  treatments.  You'll  save  plenty  and  you'll  look 
as  beautiful  as  the  Movie  Stars.  You  can  change  thin,  wide  or  heavy  lips  to  luscious 
perfect  lips;  you  can  change  shapeless  mismatched,  straggly  eyebrows  to  perfectly 
formed  face  flattering  brows.  Just  think  of  it  .  .  .  you  get  beauty  perfection  that  will 
last  years  .  .  .  perhaps  for  a  lifetime  with  the  18  piece  Patricia  de  Paree  Beauty  Essen* 
tials  Kit.  A  miracle  value  at  only  $1.00  plus  25c  to  cover  postage  and  handling. 

Try  the  18  piece  Beauty  Essentials  kit  for  10  days  at  our  expense.  You  must  find  you  have 
a  new  enticing  romantic  appearance,  or  return  the  kit  for  full  refund  of  purchase  price. 

—       MAIL  TODAY  FOR  IMMEDIATE  BEAUTY!       — 

PATRICIA  DE  PAREE  •  DEPT  N-58  •  228  LEXINGTON  AVE.  •  NEW  YORK,  N.  Y. 
Rush  to  me  the  18  piece  Beauty  Essentials  Kit,  I  am  enclosing  $1.00  PLUS  25c 

to  cover  postage  and  handling  for  each  set  I  order.  Here  is  $ please  send  me 

sets  at  $1.00  plus  25c  (to  cover  postage  and  handling)  for  each.  If  I  am 

not  completely  satisfied  I  will  return  the  kit(s)  for  full  refund  of  purchase  price. 

Enclosed  is  □  check      □  cash      □  money  order 

NAME..; 


ADDRESS , 

CITY ZONE.. 

/  get  my  choice  of  2  Lipsticks 

1 (order  by  color) 

2 , , 

/  get  my  choice  of  1  Eye  Lining  Pencil 

1 (order  by  color) 

I  get  my  choice  of  1  Eyebrow  Pencil 
I.., (order  by  color) 


STATE.. 


/  get  my  choice  of  1  Lip  Lining' Pencil 
1 (order  by  color) 

And  I  get  6  Lip  Outlines, 
6  Eyebrow  Outlines,  and 
1  Beauty  Perfection  course* 


13 


Her  work  went  to  somebody  else's  head,   but  Dinah   Shore 
really  raced  back  to  plan  new  home  with  George  Montgomery. 


Wild  West  still  is — as  Broken  Arrow's  John  Lupton  found 
out  when  a  bucking  bronc  bucked  at  El  Toro  Marine  Base. 


WHATfS  NEW  ON  THE  WEST  COAST 


By  BUD   GOODE 


14 


Tennessee  Ernie  Ford  was  home 
early  from  his  New  England  vacation 
in  order  to  run  up  to  his  ranch  in 
Northern  California.  Ern  gave  ranch 
foreman,  Gene  Cooper,  a  three-week 
vacation  and  got  up  himself  at  5  A.M. 
every  morning  to  feed  the  pigs,  cows 
and  horses,  mend  fences,  paint  barns 
and  race  around  his  540-acre  paradise 
on  top  of  the  new  Ford  tractor,  feelin' 
every  inch  the  King  of  the  Tennessee 
Smokies.  Ol'  Ern  loves  the  ranch, 
where  the  only  ratings  are  those  the 
local  cattle  buyers  give  to  his  herd 
of  prime  beef. 

When  Ernie  Ford  heard  that  his  life 
was  to  be  one  of  This  Is  Your  Life  re- 
runs this  summer,  he  wired  Ralph 
Edwards  and  asked  if  there  would  be 
a  party  again  after  the  show.  His 
grandmother  was  ready  to  fly  out 
from  Tennessee. 

Art  Linkletter  believes  in  the  good 
life:  In  the  middle  of  winter,  he  was 
off  for  two  weeks  in  Mexico  with  wife 
Lois;  in  the  spring,  he  took  in  the 
beauties  of  the  green  East  Coast  at  the 
Pillsbury  Bakeoff ;  early  summer  (this 
year's  vacation),  he  and  Lois  visited 
the  Far  East;  and  the  top  of  the  sum- 
mer found  Art  and  Lois  on  a  private 


yacht  for  a  week  of  fishing  Alaska's 
inland  waters.  Art  caught  his  limit, 
but  Lois  won  the  prize — a  42-pound 
salmon.  Before  they  left,  these  peren- 
nial youngsters  found  time  to  dance 
it  up  at  Don  Fedderson's  party  for 
new  Do  You  Trust  Your  Wife?  emcee, 
Johnny  Carson. 

Jack  Linkletter's  fiancee  has  begun 
teaching  Physical  Education  at  Bev- 
erly Hills  High  School.  Herding  a 
bunch  of  kids  around,  she'll  be  get- 
ting ready  to  raise  a  family  the  size 
of  her  father-in-law's  .  .  .? 

Big  year  for  Molly  Bee.  Her  first 
motion  picture  for  Universal-Interna- 
tional is  now  out  and  is  such  a  big  hit 
they've  asked  her  to  do  two  a  year. 
Ernie  Ford  has  signed  Molly  for  thir- 
teen appearances  on  his  night-time 
show.  Tommy  Sands  gifted  her  with 
a  two-diamond  "friendship"  ring.  And 
now  she  has  graduated  to  an  all-dra- 
matic, no-singing,  starring  role  with 
TV's  Ronnie  Burns,  in  the  Columbia 
picture,  "Too  Young."  Tommy  Sands, 
meantime,  in  search  of  new  material 
for  his  20th  Century-Fox  picture, 
"The  Singin'  Idol,"  decided  to  do  his 
own  cleffing.  Perhaps  this  material 
will  hit  the  million   seller  circle,   as 


did  last  summer's  "Teen-Age  Crush." 
Just  before  Dinah  Shore  took  off 
for  Copenhagen,  Mary  Benny  called 
and  asked  Dinah  for  her  hairdresser. 
Dinah  said  that,  unfortunately,  the 
girl  had  been  in  an  accident  and 
wasn't  available.  So  Dinah  went  over 
to  help  set  Mary's  hair.  When  Dinah 
arrived  in  Copenhagen,  she  received 
the  following  unsigned  wire:  "Come 
back,  come  back.  Mary  Benny  needs 
a  hairdresser!"  Incidentally,  work  on 
the  new  home  Dinah  and  George 
Montgomery  are  building  is  proceed- 
ing apace. 

Wonderfully  wise  and  kind,  Eve 
Arden  is  the  sort  of  gal  whose  eyes 
light  up  whenever  anyone  begins 
talking  about  children,  kittens,  pup- 
pies, baby  chicks,  little  lambs  or 
ponies.  She  and  husband  Brooks  West 
were  married  on  the  Bruce  Amsters' 
farm  in  Connecticut.  Last  year  their 
good  friend  Bruce  suffered  a  heart  at- 
tack, moved  his  family  into  a  New 
York  City  apartment.  To  help  Amster 
rest,  Eve  sent  for  his  youngest  daugh- 
ter Mary,  asking  that  she  be  allowed 
to  stay  on  their  Hidden  Valley  ranch 
along  with  her  own  four  children. 
Watching  Eve's  joyful  expression  as 


Bellissima,  said  a  guest  at  Las  Vegas's  Flamingo  Hotel,  and  he 
could  have  meant  any  Alberghetti:  Mama,  Anna  Maria,  Carlo. 


For  What's  Newv  On  The  East  Coast,  See  Page  4 


she  describes  young  Mary  Amster's 
growth  on  the  ranch  is  a  treat  in  it- 
self: "Mary  arrived,  not  awkward, 
mind  you,  but  like  a  city  gal  on  a  farm 
— coltish  is  the  word.  She  couldn't  run 
as  fast  as  our  kids  (though  by  the  end 
of  the  year  she  beat  them).  It  was 
wonderful  watching  her  in  the  spring 
as  she  learned  to  care  for  the  little 
lambs;  and  Brooks  took  a  complete 
movie  called  'Mary  of  Westhaven,' 
which  pictures  her  from  the  day  she 
arrived  coming  up  the  path  to  the 
house  and  follows  her  all  through  the 
year — to  the  waiting-room  Brooks 
built  for  the  kids  to  wait  for  the  school 
bus  in,  to  the  spring  animals,  and  with 
us  on  our  Yosemite  vacation.  We  even 
have  some  film  on  the  arrival  of  her 
mother  and  father — now  we're  just 
waiting  for  the  last  title  (Brooks  is 
making  it)  showing  all  of  us  waving 
goodbye  to  the  Amsters  as  they  take 
their  new  Mary  home  to  New  York." 
The  cameraman  on  the  Frank  Sin- 
atra set  also  was  responsible  for  the 
camera  work  on  Otto  Preminger's 
movie,  "The  Man  With  the  Golden 
Arm."  Whenever  they  fell  behind 
schedule,  Preminger  would  growl  at 
him.  "Don't  talk  mit  de  actors.  You 


schlow  hus  hupp."  Today,  it's  Frankie, 
"The  Man"  himself,  who  growls  at  his 
cameraman,  "Don't  talk  mit  de  actors 
.  .  ."  The  crew  falls  apart.  Contrary  to 
popular  rumor,  it's  this  rolling  sense 
of  humor  which  keeps  the  Sinatra 
troupe  in  high  good  spirits.  As  a  con- 
sequence, they  seldom  fall  behind. 

Always  a  heavy  smoker,  James  Ma- 
son finally  forced  himself  to  shake 
the  habit.  He  didn't  reckon,  though, 
with  the  CBS-TV  photographers  who 
requested  that  he  pose  for  an  up- 
coming G.E.  Theater  show  with  a  cig- 
arette dangling  from  lips.  P.S.  He  did. 

The  chips  were  down  at  the  Fla- 
mingo Hotel  in  Las  Vegas,  as  people 
deserted  the  gambling  tables  to  shout 
"bravas"  for  Anna  Maria  Alberghet- 
ti, the  gal  with  the  classic  voice  and 
measurements  to  match.  Anna  Maria 
received  the  ovations  with  two  other 
members  of  the  talented  family  act, 
Mama  Alberghetti  and  sister  Carla. 
They  were  on  the  same  bill  as  comic 
Alan  King.  .  .  .  Another  comic, 
George  Gobel,  doing  the  best  business 
in  Las  Vegas,  has  this  observation 
about  the  gambling  town:  An  enter- 
tainer doesn't  play  Las  Vegas;  it  plays 
him.  (Continued  on  page  71) 


PERIODIC  PAI" 

t**>1W0U? 'Is  to  »* 


******  let*  t*>,Wm 


wens1 


eases  W» 


dache 


and 


chases 


*e 


lb\ues  • 


15 


Home  from  her  day's  chores  at  a 
movie  studio,  Mitzi  Gaynor  finds 
husband  Frank  Sinatra  is  still  a 
gambling  addict,  with  poker  pals. 


TV 


RADIO 
MIRROR 


16 


TV  favorites  on 

your  theater  screen 

By  JANET  GRAVES 
The  Joker  Is  Wild 

PARAMOUNT,    VISTAVISION 

Here  Frank  Sinatra  combines  his  im- 
posing talents  as  singer  and  dramatic 
actor.  He  plays  Joe  E.  Lewis,  night-club 
star  whose  life  is  twisted  after  an  assault 
by  Chicago  gangsters  of  the  twenties. 
Alcohol  both  hampers  and  advances  his 
new  career  as  comic,  complicates  his 
relationships  with  friend  Eddie  Albert, 
sweetheart  Jeanne  Crain  and  wife  Mitzi 
Gaynor.  This  is  a  strong,  wry,  offbeat 
music-drama. 

The  Three  Faces  of  Eve 

20th,  cinemascope 
Often  acclaimed  for  her  live-TV  shows, 
Joanne  Woodward  realizes  an  actress's 
dream  with  this  spectacular  assignment. 
It's  three  parts  in  one,  for  she  plays  a 
colorless  Southern  housewife  who  lapses 
at  times  into  an  evil  alternate  person- 
ality, a  reckless  hussy.  In  her  mental 
torment,  she  gets  no  understanding  and 
little  sympathy  from  husband  David 
Wayne.  But  psychiatrist  Lee  J.  Cobb 
uncovers  another  hidden  personality — - 
a   normal   woman. 


Hear  Me  Good 

PARAMOUNT,    VISTAVISION 

Two  years  ago,  at  advance  showings  of 
the  movie  musical  "It's  Always  Fair 
Weather,"  M-G-M  didn't  even  give 
screen  credit  to  the  new  actor  who  played 
a  comic  menace,  a  punch-drunk  pug. 
Sure,  he  did  an  excellent  job — but  the 
part  was  too  small.  By  the  time  the 
picture  was  premiered  for  the  public, 
the  studio  had  corrected  its  error  and 
given  the  newcomer  billing,  because  he 
had  meantime  made  a  name  for  himself 
on  TV.  The  name  was  Hal  March.  The 
genial  emcee  returns  to  Hollywood  now 
as  star  of  this  lively  Broadway  comedy, 
done  in  the  Damon  Runyon  manner.  With 
pal  Joe  E.  Ross  (you  know  him  as  mess 
sergeant  in  Bilko's  company),  Hal  tries 
to  clean  up  by  betting  on  a  fixed  beauty 
contest.  Merry  Anders  and  Jean  Willes 
are  rival  lovelies. 

Johnny  Trouble 

WARNERS 

An  also-ran  in  movies  until  her  hit  in 
"The  Bachelor  Party,"  Carolyn  Jones 
got  that  second  chance  partly  because  of 
her  good  showing  in  TV  dramas.  Now 
she  has  rare  fortune  and  a  sharp  chal- 
lenge, cast  with  that  great  lady  Ethel 
Barrymore.  Miss  Barrymore  plays  a 
widow  who  refuses  to  give  up  her  apart- 
ment even  when  the  building  is  turned 
into  a  college  men's  dormitory.  For  per- 
sonal reasons,  she  takes  a  grandmotherly 


interest  in  trouble-making  student  Stu- 
art Whitman,  beloved  of  the  flighty 
Carolyn.   It's    sentimental    but    affecting. 

The  Helen  Morgan  Story 

WARNERS,     CINEMASCOPE 

Songs  that  are  part  of  the  all-time  Hit 
Parade  come  thrillingly  from  the  screen 
in  this  touching,  fanciful  tribute  to  a 
beloved  singer  of  the  twenties  and  early 
thirties.  As  the  film's  Helen.  Ann  Blyth 
gives  her  love  to  young  TV  grad  Paul 
Newman,  though  she  is  also  wooed  by 
lawyer  Richard  Carlson  (another  TV 
regular).  The  movie  is  less  realistic 
than  the  television  version  that  starred 
Polly    Bergen,   but   music's   full   of   life. 

At  Your   Neighborhood   Theaters 


The  Pajama  Game  (Warners,  Warner- 
Color)  :  With  Doris  Day  and  John  Raitt. 
the  labor-management  quarrel  is  trans- 
lated into  personal,  musical,  highly  en- 
tertaining terms. 

No  Down  Payment  (20th,  Cinema- 
Scope)  :  Problems  of  young-marrieds 
get  ruthless  scrutiny,  with  fine  work  by 
Joanne  Woodward,  Tony  Randall. 

The  Careless  Years  (U.A.)  :  Youthful 
Natalie  Trundy  and  Dean  Stockwell 
portray  teenagers  who  consider  elope- 
ment. Their  decision  may  rouse  family 
argument. 


^  movies 
on  TV 
Showing  this  month 


CORNERED  (RKO) :  Tough,  fast-moving 
mystery  stars  Dick  Powell  as  an  ex-flyer  of 
World  War  II  who  seeks  the  murderer  of  his 
bride,  heroine  of  the  French  resistance.  Wal- 
ter Slezak's  a  sleek  heavy. 

FORT  DEFIANCE  (U.A.) :  Vigorous,  un- 
usual Western  set  in  post-Civil  War  days.  As 
a  blind  youth,  Peter  Graves  escapes  the  in- 
fluence of  ornery  brother  Dane  Clark  and 
finds  a  friend  in  voung  Ben  Johnson. 

I,  THE  JURY  (U.A.)  :  Slaphappy,  punch- 
drunk  Mickey  Spillane  yarn  presents  BifE 
Elliot  as  private  eye  Mike  Hammer,  trailing 
the  killer  of  a  wartime  buddy.  Peggie  Castle, 
a  psychiatrist,  is  among  the  lush  ladies;  Pres- 
ton Foster's  a  police  captain. 

ISLAND  OF  DESIRE  (U.A.) :  Tab  Hunt- 
er's debut  film  shows  off  his  torso  to  good  ad- 
vantage. As  a  youthful  sailor,  he's  cast  away 
on  a  South  Sea  island  with  the  older  but  at- 
tractive Linda  Darnell,  Navy  nurse. 

JOURNEY  INTO  FEAR  (RKO):  Wild 
fascinating  thriller  of  World  War  II  plots. 
American  Joseph  Cotten,  armament  expert, 
is  shadowed  by  Nazi  assassins  in  Turkey.  Or- 
son Welles  is  a  local  police  officer;  Dolore1 
Del  Rio,  a  dancer. 

MAN  WITH  A  MILLION  (U.A.) :  Gregory- 
Peck  plays  the  adventurous  Yank  in  an  en- 
gagingly whimsical  Mark  Twain  tale  of  Lor; 
don  in  1900.  Dead  broke,  Greg  is  given  a 
million-pound  note — but  he  mustn't  spend  it. 
How  far  can  he  get  on  credit? 

MOULIN  ROUGE  (U.A.)  :  Brilliant  and 
colorful  story  of  19th  Century  Paris.  As  the 
deformed  genius  Toulouse-Lautrec,  Jose  Fer- 
rer paints  the  night  life  of  the  city,  loves 
street  girl  Colette  Marchand. 

MY    LIFE   WITH    CAROLINE    (RKO): 

Flimsy  comedy  sparked  by  a  charming  and 
expert  cast.  As  a  shrewd  husband,  Ronald 
Colman  copes  with  flighty  Anna  Lee,  who 
flirts  with  Reginald  Gardiner,  Gilbert  Ro- 
land, her  casual  beaux. 

NIGHT  TO  REMEMBER,  A  (Columbia) : 
No,  this  isn't  the  story  of  the  Titanic.  It's  a 
frivolous,  farcical  whodunit,  with  Brian 
Aherne  as  a  writer,  Loretta  Young  as  his 
bride,  in  wacky  Greenwich  Village. 

OX-BOW  INCIDENT,  THE  (20th) :  One 
of  the  real  greats,  a  movie  classic.  In  the 
harrowing  drama  of  a  frontier  lynching, 
Henry  Fonda's  a  doubtful  member  of  the 
mob;  Dana  Andrews,  one  of  the  trio  ac- 
cused of  cattle-rustling  and  murder. 

PENNY  SERENADE  (Columbia) :  Honest- 
ly sentimental,  beautifully  done  story  of  a 
marriage.  To  a  series  of  ''''our  songs,"  Cary 
Grant  and  Irene  Dunne  court,  marry,  adopt 
and  lose  a  child,  courageously  face  the  fu- 
ture together. 

SEALED  CARGO  (RKO):  Strong  action 
movie  spotlights  a  Nazi  plot  in  Newfound- 
land. Dana  Andrews  leads  the  fishermen  who 
outwit  Claude  Rains,  German  Navy  officer 
posing  as  a  Danish  merchant  captain. 

STEEL  TRAP,  THE  (20th) :  Taut  tale  of 
suspense.  Bank  employee  Joseph  Cotten  tries 
looting  the  vault  as  an  experiment,  gives  in 
to  temptation  and  takes  off,  deceiving  wife 
Teresa  Wright. 


AND  OH...HOW   IT   CLINGS! 


Treat  your  lips  to  that  delicious,  creamy  smooth  com- 
fort and  beauty  that  only  Cutex  gives !  Discover  color 
that  stays  true  and  bright  .  .  .  even  at  night.  Clings 
to  you  (stays  off  him)  even  after  a  kiss! 

Only  Cutex  Lipstick  has  pure  Sheer  Lanolin! 

That's  why  there's  never  ever  any  of  the  dryness  or 
irritation  caused  by  so  many  ordinary  lipsticks.  Never 
a  trace  of  greasiness  or  feathering.  Cutex  keeps  your 
lips  always  silken  soft . . .  glowing  with  lasting,  radi- 
ant color.  No  other  lipstick  can  match  it !  69<f  and  35c. 


sheer  lanolin  lipstick 


Count  on  Cutex  for  all 
the  latest,  loveliest  col- 
ors for  lips  and  finger- 
tips. Why  pay  more? 


For  a  Minute  Miracle  in  Hand  Beauty— Get  New  Cutex  Hand  Cream ! 


of  *h 


vening 


Lauren  Bacall  is  typical  of  Sammy's  top- 
flight talented  guests.  He  knows  many  such 
stars — can  imitate  most  of  them  amazingly. 


"Coffee  Corner"  grew  out  of  a  talk  with 
William  Kaland  of  WBC,  who  realized 
Sammy  would  begood  host — as  well  as  guest. 


Sammy  Davis,  Jr.  shares  his 

"Coffee  Corner"  with  top  celebs,  in  WBCs 

plan  for  dynamic  radio  programming 


There's  still  magic  in  radio!   Potent  magic,  with  at 
least  80%  as  many  listeners  as  there  are  TV  viewers 
every  night.  Starting  from  that  premise,  Westinghouse 
Broadcasting  Company  has  created  Program  PM — 
two  hours  nightly,  seven  days  a  week — for  five 
key  stations  from  Massachusetts  to  Oregon.  WBC  calls 
it    "lateral    programming,"    combining    features    of    top 
local  interest  with  national  series  starring  such 
top  names  as  Sammy  Davis,  Jr.  .  .  .  Sammy's  weekly 
hour  features  a  "Coffee  Corner."  But  Mr.  Davis,  Jr. 
is  really  the  man  who  came  to  dinner— and  stayed 
on  to  become  a  permanent  fixture  in  the  Westinghouse 
family  of  stars.  Originally  scheduled  as  first  guest 
of  noted  deejay  Jerry  Marshall's  own  segment,  "Music 
Beat,"  Sammy  got  the  ball  rolling  so  entertainingly 
that  the  tape  couldn't  be  cut  down  to  size.  William 
J.  Kaland,  WBCs  National  Program  Manager, 
listened   with   delight,   asked   Sammy,   "How   come 
you're  not  doing  a  regular  radio  series  of  your  own?" 
Said  Sammy,  "Nobody  asked  me."  Said  Bill,  "So  I'm 
asking."  .  .  .  Sammy's  a  natural  for  the  present  series. 
Program  PM  believes  in  going  behind-the-scenes 
of  everything  provocative,  from  the  arts  to  the  atom. 
No   one  knows  backstage  life  more  intimately  than 
Sammy,  who  was  born  into  show  business — December  3, 
1925,  in  New  York  City — began  mimicking  the  family 
act  at  two,  joined  them  on  stage  at  four.  .  .  . 
Program  PM  believes  that  big  names  make  big  enter- 
tainment news.  Sammy  has  not  only  been  a  star 
of  The  Will  Mastin  Trio  (with  his  uncle  and  father) 
ever  since  1936 — and  "Mr.  Wonderful"  in  person 
on  Broadway  last  year — he  has  also  worked  with  and 
knows   well   most   of   today's    greatest   performers,    can 
thus  share  his  "Coffee  Corner"  mike  with  such  head- 
liners  as  Sinatra,  Crosby,  Nat  "King"  Cole,  Lauren 
Bacall,  Judy  Garland.  .  .  .  Program  PM  believes  in 
radio  as  a  dynamic,  exciting  force  in  American  life. 
For  all  his  success  on  stage  and  screen,  night  clubs 
and  records  (Decca),  Sammy  has  a  very  special  spot 
in  his  heart  for  radio.  It  was  by  listening  constantly — 
over  the  air  and  around  the  studios — that  he  developed 
the  amazing  gift  for  mimicry  which  adds  the  touch 
of  genius  to  Sammy  Davis,  Jr.'s  position  as  a  leading 
song-and-dance  man  in  the  show-business  world. 

The  Sammy  Davis,  Jr.,  Show  is  a  part  of  Program  PM,  heard  over 
Westinghouse  Stations  WBZ-WBZA,  Boston  and  Springfield — KDKA, 
Pittsburgh— KYW,  Cleveland— WOWO,  Fort  Wayne— and  KEX, 
Portland,  Ore.    Consult  local  papers  for  time  and  day  in  your  area. 


1 


jk    jfiks 


If.-    Must  you  always  be  cast  as  an  outsider  when 
I  you're  married  to  a  star? 

A  million  women  envy  you.  You,  wife  of  Larry  Noble . . .  actor,  star,  dazzling 
image  of  everything  they  want.  But  they  never  guess  your  lorieliness- Larry 
wrapped  up  in  a  play,  Larry  infatuated  with  a  leading  lady,  showing  her  the 
devotion  that  should  be  yours.  You  alone  know  the  pain.,  .waiting  in  the 
wings  for  love,  for  the  man  who  is  your  world.  Can  you  ever  be  a  part  of 
his?  You  can  get  the  whole  story- even  while  you  work -when  you  listen  to 
daytime  radio.  Hear  BACKSTAGE  WIFE  on  the  CBS  RADIO  NETWORK. 


Monday  through  Friday.  See  your  local  paper  for  station  and  time. 


yy^Vwc&t'WZ' 


From  all  across  the  nation — Pennsylvania  and 
Missouri,  California  and  New  Jersey — come  four  talented 
young  stars  to  sing  the  nation  s  favorite  songs 

By  LILLA  ANDERSON 


Now  that  Tin  Pan  Alley  is  a  street  which  runs 
past  everyone's  door,  the  songs  of  America 
come  from  many  sources  .  .  .  Texas,  Tennessee, 
Trinidad  .  .  .  New  York,  North  Hollywood,  South 
Philadelphia.  Their  ranges,  their  rhythms,  their 
styles,  are  as  varied  as  the  places  from  which 
they  came  and  the  singers  who  introduced  them. 
Yet  each  aims  for  a  single  accolade  of  popularity — 
performance  on  Your  Hit  Parade. 

To  convert  such  songs  into  colorful  radio  and 
television  presentations — and  to  stage  a  fresh, 
new  presentation  each  week,  no  matter  how  long 
a  number  remains  on  the  popularity  charts — calls 
for  the  utmost  skill  and  imagination  from  that 
show's  production  staff.  From  the  singers,  of 
course,  it  demands  almost  immeasurable  versa- 
tility. Vocally,  they  must  be  able  to  switch  from 
rock  'n'  roll  to  a  tender  ballad,  from  a  novelty 
tune  to  a  semi-classic.  Further,  they  must  be  able 
to  dance  and  dramatize  their  numbers.  It  is  the 
most  challenging  entertainment  assignment  in 
America  today. 

This  season,  four  new  singers  are  taking  up  the 
challenge — and  they  have  backgrounds  and  talents 
as  varied  as  the  music  they  perform.  Tommy 
Leonetti  comes  from  New  Jersey  and  Jill  Corey 
from  the  Perry  Como  coal  country  in  Pennsyl- 
vania. Virginia  Gibson  is  a  graduate  of  St.  Louis 
Municipal  Opera  and  Broadway  musical  comedy, 
and  Alan  Copeland  learned  some  of  his  show- 
business  knowhow  in  Hollywood,  from  the  Crosby 
clan.  Together,  they  all  meet  the  Hit  Parade's 
high  standards  by  being  healthy,  happy,  talented 
young  entertainers. 

You  can  expect  rumors  of  for-real  romance  to 
burst  out  with  every  duet  which  Tommy  Leonetti 
and  Jill  Corey  sing,  for  here's  a  pair  to  flutter 
any  matchmaking  imagination.  Tommy  is  tall, 
dark  and  handsome;  Jill  is  petite,  pert,  and  pretty. 
Each  comes  from  an  Italian  family  where  every 


member  loves  music.  Each  has  a  warm,  outgoing 
personality,  and  both  have  reached  that  level  of 
professional  achievement  where  one  lucky  song, 
one  hit  record,  will  bring  the  blazing  glory  of 
top  stardom. 

To  compound  the  inevitable  conclusion  that 
these  two  belong  together  is  the  fact  that  they 
have  gone  out  on  a  few  dates.  "That  was  in 
Hollywood,  a  couple  of  years  ago,"  says  Tommy, 
with  a  hint  of  happy  memory  in  his  voice.  Jill  says, 
with  a  touch  of  nostalgia,  "Long  before  we  ever 
guessed  we  might  be  singing  together  on  Your 
Hit  Parade."  Then,  almost  instantly,  each  assures 
you,  with  a  shy  charm,  that  the  association  had  no 
serious  connotations. 

Says  Jill,  who  has  been  going  through  a  period 
in  which  columnists  linked  her  name  with  that  of 
virtually  every  interestingly  eligible  young  man 
on  Manhattan:  "Don't  believe  what  you  read  in 
the  papers.  I'm  not  in  love  with  anybody  .  .  .  but 
I  do  think  Tommy  is  a  lot  of  fun."  Says  Tommy, 
who  has  squired  many  a  glamorous  lass,  "Jill's 
a  sweet  girl.  But  my  first  record  was  called  'I'm 
Available,'  and  that  still  stands." 

Tommy  won  his  Hit  Parade  assignment  in  an 
audition  which  considered  more  than  a  hundred 
singers,  but  he  has  been  preparing  for  it  as  long 
as  he  can  remember.  Born  in  North  Bergen,  New 
Jersey,  he  is  the  son  of  Dominico  and  Dominica 
Lionetti.  (Tommy  changed  the  spelling  to  make 
certain  people  could  pronounce  his  name  cor- 
rectly.) His  parents  came  from  Bad,  Italy,  and 
Tommy  now  shares  their  home  in  Cliffside,  New 
Jersey,  a  town  within  commuting  distance  of  New 
York.  He  is  the  youngest  of  nine  children. 

"All  of  us  sang,"  says  Tommy.  "And  what  a 
noise  they  could  make,"  says  his  mother.  "But  I 
always  enjoyed  it.  It  was  a  good  sound  and  a 
happy  house." 

One  of  their  teachers   (Continued  on  page  64) 


Your  Hit  Parade  is  seen  on  NBC-TV,  Sat.,  10:30.  P.M.  EDT,  sponsored  by  Hit  Parade  Cigarettes  and  The  Toni  Company. 


20 


ALAN  COPELAND 


VIRGINIA  GIBSON 


■ 


jf 


-. 


31h 


a**** 


4*% 


WJ* 


JILL  COREY 


TOMMY  LEONETTI 


Mason  thinks  the  staff  and  cast  of  Pepper  Young's. Family  are  tops — particu- 
larly that  fine  actress,  Margaret  Draper,  who's  heard  as  Pepper's  wife  Linda. 


Pepper  Young's  Family,  written  by  Elaine  Carrington,  directed  by  Chick  Vincent  and  star- 
ring Mason  Adams,  is  heard  on  NBC  Radio,  M-F,  3:45  P.M.  EDT,  under  multiple  sponsorship. 


By  ALICE  FRANCIS 


When  you've  played  a  man 
for  twelve  years  on  radio,  as 
Mason  Adams  has  played 
Pepper  Young  on  NBC,  it  would 
seem  only  natural  to  develop  a  real 
affection  for  him.  An  "empathy," 
to  employ  that  now  over-used  and 
often  abused  word.  A  bond  of  ideas, 
a  similarity  of  manners  and  man- 
nerisms and  of  speech.  You  may 
even  get  to  look  like  him — or,  more 
properly,  he  may  look  like  you. 

Adams  tells  the  story  of  one  of 
the  thousands  of  listeners  to  Pep- 
per Young's  Family  who  have 
written  to  him  over  the  years. 
"This  man  said  he  had  been  blind 
and  regained  his  sight.  He  wanted 
a  photograph  of  me  to  see  how 
close  I  came  in  appearance  to  the 
mental  picture  he  had  built  up  over 
a  long  period  of  tuning-in  during 
his  sightless  years.  He  described 
me  as  he  had  'seen'  me,  and  it  was 
fantastically  correct.  Dark  hair  and 
brown  eyes,  wearing  glasses  (tor- 
toise shell-rimmed).  About  my 
size  (five  feet,  nine-and-a-half 
inches,  to  be  exact) . 

"He  said  that  usually  I  had  a 
serious  expression  (I  am  afraid  I 
do) ,  but  that  I  brightened  up  enor- 
mously when  I  got  enthusiastic 
about  something  or  was  amused 
(which  I  also  do).  He  said  I  moved 
in  a  hurry,  but  in  general  liked 
mental  activity  rather  than  physi- 
cal exercise,  and  he  was  right 
about  this,  too. 

"Even  my  mother  occasionally 
identifies  me  with  Pepper,  to  her 
own  amusement  and  mine,"  Mason 
adds.  "She  will  be  working  around 
her  home  with  the  program  tuned 
in,  suddenly  hear  me  call  'Hey, 
Mom,'  to  Marion  Barney — that 
wonderful  and  delightful  older  ac- 
tress who  plays  my  Young  mother 
— and  will  automatically  turn  to 
answer  me  herself!" 

Elaine  Carrington,  creator  and 
writer  of  Pepper  Young's  Family, 
probably  by  now  also  identifies 
Mason    (Continued    on    page  63) 


22 


True,  Mason  prefers  mental  activity  to  physical  exercise.  But  he 
also  enjoys  a  game  of  tennis — whether  visiting  his  folks  out  on  Long 
Island,  or  playing  with  such  friends  as  mystery-writer  Harold 
Q.    Masur    in   the   very    shadow   of    Manhattan's    great    bridges. 


Mason  Adams,  that  is,  ivho's  better 
known — even  to  himself! — as 
Pepper  Young,  of  the  famous  family 


Books  and  music  are  this  bachelor's  favorite 
companions  for  a  quiet  evening  at  home.  Mason, 
who  has  a  Master's  degree  from  Wisconsin  U., 
is    proud    of    his    library    and     record    collection. 


— 


Joan  loves  to  learn — and  her  "favorite  teacher"  is  her 
husband,    Frank    Ross,    noted    TV    and    movie    producer. 


OUR  GAL 


New  role,  new  viewpoint  .  .  .  husband 
and  friends  have  more  reason  than  ever 
to  be  proud  of  Joan  Caulfield  today 

By  EUNICE  FIELD 

Somewhere  in  Benedict  Canyon,  looking  out 
on  the  Hollywood  hills,  lovely  Joan  Caulfield  is 
pouring  iced  tea.  In  that  setting  of  emerald 
lawns,  glittering  pool,  French  gardens  and  marble 
patio,  her  blond  hah*  seems  blonder  than  ever  and  her 
blue  eyes  bluer.  Her  movements  are  graceful  and 
quick,  her  smile  vivid  and  winning,  and  out  of  her 
there  flows  an  excitement  that  always  seems  on  the 
verge  of  bursting  forth.    It  seldom  does,  how- 
ever .  .  .  and,  to  her  friends,  this  is  a  fact  of  great 
significance.   Joan   had   always   been   a   creature   of 
sudden  moods — sudden  in  her  spells  of  sunshine, 
sudden  in  her  spells  of  storm.  .  .  .  "Yes,  we've  had 
this  place  a  couple  of  years  now,"  she  is  saying  to  a 
guest,  "but  Frank  and  I  still  think  of  it  as  new." 
"I  hear  there's  a  new   (Continued  on  page    85) 

Sally  is  seen  on  NBC-TV,  Sun.,  7:30  P.M.  EDT,  sponsored  by 
the  Chemstrand  Corporation  and  Royal  Portable  Typewriters. 


Young  and  impulsive  Joan  is  growing  up,  now  that 
she's   a    part-owner  ,  of  Sally,   as   well    as    its    star. 


More  mature,  more  responsible,  yes.    But  as  lovely 
as  ever,  and  just  as  ready  for  a  romp  with  "Missy." 


25 


Lucky 


Bob  fell  in  love  ivith  a  picture — 
and  won  the  girl.  He  wanted  a  boy 
child — and  got  three.  Thanks  to 
shows  like  The  Big  Record,  they 
live  in  the  house  of  their  dreams! 

By  GORDON  BUDGE 

This  .  year,  popular  and  handsome  Bob 
LeMond  is  being  seen  weekly  on  Patti 
Page's  The  Big  Record  over  CBS-TV,  and 
almost  every  month  on  Jerry  Lewis's  special 
shows  for  NBC -TV.  Every  year,  he's  been  on 
view  with  some  of  television's  biggest  stars 
and,  by  now,  peripatetic  Bob  has  visited  as 
many  millions  of  living  rooms  as  any  other 
topflight  announcer.  But  genial,  dark-haired, 
brown-eyed  LeMond,  who  claims  he's  just  an 
average  guy,  never  planned  on  becoming  a 
bigtime  announcer.  Five  feet,  eleven  inches 
and    175   pounds    of    (Continued   on    page 74) 

The  Big  Record,  starring  Patti  Page,  CBS-TV,  Wed.,  8 
to  9  P.M.  EDT,  is  sponsored  by  Oldsmobile  Div.  of 
General  Motors,  Armour  and  Co.,  Kellogg  Co.,  Pillsbury 
Mills.  The  Jerry  Lewis  Show  will  be  seen  Tues.,  Nov. 
5,  on  NBC-TV,  at  9  P.M.,  as  sponsored  by  Oldsmobile. 


From  left  to  right — Barry,  Stephen,  Robin.  "Our  friends 
say  we  should  have  had  a  girl,"  Barbara  laughs.  "But  Bob 
and   I   are  used  to  little  boys,   think  they  are  wonderful." 


^^■nJw;<# 

m 

flk   - 

\\».v  .  ?",-  • 

«S^*t 

-^te'tt    9P  InB^.         '  K£i-     ■                                     ^-?B 

"^5 

it '       PMbI        v 

ppp'^r^^H 

m&z^  j  • 

^^ggilW^ 

P:     .                                              *..     "■*<,_    ... 

Bob  and  Barbara  met  in  the  South 
Pacific,  were  married  in  California. 


Eldest  son   Robin  has  special  privileges, 
goes  fishing  with   Bob,   is   learning   golf. 


Playing   with    Dad    and    "Lancer," 

Barry  doesn't  mind  being  the  baby! 


I 


HER  OWN 

That's  what  every  grown  woman  wants, 
says  Carmel  Quinn — who  traveled 
from  Ireland  to  America  to  find  it 


Carmel   and    Bill   in   front  of  their   New  Jersey   home — 
the   "house  on   a   hill"   she  dreamed   of  as   a   little   girl. 


By  MARY  TEMPLE 

Sure,  and  Dublin-born  Carmel  Quinn  can  weave  the 
same  spell  around  you  while  you're  just  sitting  across 
from  her,  talking  and  visiting,  as  she  does  on  the 
Arthur  Godfrey  show  or  in  a  night  club  or  on  records. 
It  could  be  the  lilting  Irish  voice,  as  musical  with  talk  as 
it  is  with  notes,  and  the  titian  hair  with  the  soft  waves 
that  have  nary  a  hint  of  being  set  that  way  but  hang 
careless-like  at  her  neck.  Or  the  blue  eyes  that  change  to 
green  and  back  to  blue,  according  to  the  colors  around  her. 

The  spell  grows  even  stronger  as  she  talks  of  home 
and  husband  and  children  and  her  new  life  in  America, 
and  every  word  underscored  with  emotion  and  love.   As 
she  talks  about  the  house  in  Leonia,  New  Jersey,  just 
across  the  Hudson  River  from  New  York,  where  she  lives 
as  Mrs.  Bill  Fuller,  mother  of  two  children,  Jane  and 


Continued 


29 


A  HOM 


HER  OWN 


(Continued) 


■:,/i:,;.v-,>:: ■■:":, :.•-..  : 


With  Irish  blood — and  with  both  parents  "in  show 
business" — Jane's  bound  to  sing  and  dance!  Below, 
Carmel  tests  a  new  number  on  Bill's  tape-recorder. 


Arthur  Godfrey's  Talent  Scouts,  CBS-TV,  Mon.,  8:30  P.M., 
is  sponsored  by  Thomas  J.  Lipton,  Inc.,  and  The  Toni  Co. 
Arthur  Godfrey  Time  is  heard  on  CBS  Radio,  M-F,  10  A.M. — 
seen  on  CBS-TV,  M-Th,  10:30  A.M. — under  multiple  sponsor- 
ship. The  Ford  Road  Show  Starring  Arthur  Godfrey  is  heard 
on  CBS  Radio,  M-F,  at  5:05  P.M.  (All  times  given  are  EDT) 


Michael.   Where  the  Fullers  are  neighbors  to  the  Pat 
Boones  and  to  other  delightful  people  who  have 
become  their  friends  as  well  as  neighbors. 

"When  I  was  a  small  girl  in  Ireland,  I  used  to  think 
when  I  got  married  I  would  live  in  just  such  a  house 
on  a  hill  as  I  have  now,"  she  says.  "And  isn't  it  strange, 
and  wonderful,  that  I  do!   In  this  wonderful  America, 
where  I  came  only  three-and-a-half  years  ago  and  where 
everyone  has  been  so  kind  to  me." 

The  nouse  on  a  hill,  stoutly  built  by  a  former  owner, 
is  red-brick,  roomy.  "Not  a  ranch  house,  not  a  modern 
house,  but  up-to-date  in  every  way,"  Bill  Fuller  finishes 
the  description.  "A  fine  house  for  us,"  his  wife  con- 
tinues. "With  a  big,  big  kitchen.  We  had  to  have  that. 
You  may  start  off  in  style  as  a  guest  in  the  dining 
room,  but  you  will  still  wind  up  in  the  kitchen,  having 
cups  of  coffee  or  our  good  tea.  Pretty  soon,  the  women 
are  kicking  off  their  high-heeled  shoes,  and  the  men  are 
taking  off  their  jackets  and  getting  comfortable  and 
feeling  at  home. 

"When  Shirley  and  Pat  Boone  are  in  the  East — we 
missed  them  sorely  when  Pat  was  doing  his  latest 
picture  out  in  Hollywood — we  breeze  over  to  their  place 
or  they  come  over  to  ours,  and  there  we  sit,  almost 
always  in  the  kitchen,  Pat  drinking  milk  and  my  Bill, 
a  real  'tea  shark,'  having  his  cups  of  tea,  and  Shirley 
and  I  comparing  notes  about  our  kids  and  the  cooking 
and  the  plans  we  have  for  doing  things  in  our  houses." 

Except  for  the  house  in  which  her  father  was  born  and 
still  lives,  in  Dublin— and  (Continued  on  page  72) 


Nora  Blewitt — the  colleen  "who  takes  care  of  us  and 
runs  everything"  and  is  a  trusted  "second  mother"  to 
the  baby,  Michael — is  now  an  American  citizen.  That's 
a  future  dream-to-come-true  for  Bill  and  Carmel,  too. 


30 


Kitchen  is  the  heart  of  their  home,  where  Carmel  and  Bill  serve  tea  to  such  good  neighbors  as  Bob  Gallen 
(left)  and  his  wife,  and  Mike  McDonagh  and  his  daughter  Clare.  Another  neighbor's  busy  out  in  Hollywood, 
so  Jane — who's  all  femininity  and  frills — fondly  kisses  Pat  Boone's  picture  to  show  how  much  she  misses  him. 


Shakespeare  and  the  Showgirl 


Time:  A  mellow  summer  evening,  in  the  hour  that 
precedes  curtain-rise  in  the  many  theaters  around 
New  York's  Times  Square.  Scene:  Sardi's  famed 
restaurant  just  off  Broadway,  in  the  heart  of  the  theater 
district.  Main  character:  A  lovely  girl  of  twenty-four, 
seated  at  one  of  the  tables  with  her  escort.  Quote:  "I'm 
the  luckiest  woman  in  the  world." 

Viewers  of  CBS-TV's  enormously  popular  The  $64,000 
Question  would  have  immediately  recognized  the  pretty 
speaker  as  Barbara  Hall.    On  that  particular  evening, 


less  than  three  weeks  had  elapsed  since  Barbara's  famil- 
iarity with  Shakespeare's  writings  had  brought  her  tri- 
umph in  Question's  isolation  booth  .  .  .  triumph,  a 
Manufacturers  Trust  Co.  check  for  $64,000,  and  an  in- 
vitation to  pit  her  knowledge  of  the  Bard  against  all 
comers  on  The  $64,000  Challenge  this  fall. 

Barbara  herself  is  now  a  celebrity  among  the  many 
celebrities  there  at  Sardi's  ...  as  further  dialogue  soon 
proves.  A  smartly  attired  woman,  just  leaving  an  ad- 
joining table,  pauses  to  say   {Continued  en  page  88) 


32 


The  $64,000  Question  is  emceed  by  Hal  March  over  CBS-TV,  Tues.,  10  P.  M.  EDT,  sponsored  by  Revlon,  Inc.  The  $64,000  Challenge, 
emceed  by  Ralph  Story,  is  seen  on  CBS-TV,  Sun.,  10  P.M.  EDT,  as  sponsored  by  both  Revlon  and  P.  Lorillard  Co.   (Kent  Cigarettes). 


From  a  i( Ziegfeld  Follies9* 

line  to  the  heights  of 

The  $64,000  Question — from 

lonely  obscurity  to  bright  romance 

— the  modern  saga  of  Barbara  Hall 


^1     ¥  -Tl 

■  W! 

r 

i  j 

i 

Jk 

iiyaMMjppf 

llw 

Tf, 

1                 ■■■                                              >r                                                                                                     I 

l 

... 

■k     *■• 

1  ___ 

'^  , 

*       1 

ii 

Letters  from  the  one-and-only  are  a*s  exciting  as 
that  $64,000  check  to  the  romantic  ex-showgirl  of 
"The  Ziegfeld  Follies"  and  the  Copacabana  Club. 


Busy,  phone  now,  with  congratulations —     Same  modest  apartment — wherea  young      TV  break — acting  assignment  with  Tom 
and  those  long-awaited  "casting  calls."      girl  saved  toward  a  career  in  drama.      Poston  in  a  play  on  US.  Steel  Hour. 


The  Robert  Q.  Lewis  Show 


\" 


Crowds  queue  up  for  Robert  Q.  at  CBS  Radio, 
to  share  his  show's  fun  and  music  in   person. 


Ray  Bloch,  conductor  of  top  programs  on  both  radio  and 
TV,  gives  the  downbeat  on  The  Robert  Q.  Lewis  Show, 
to  such  talented  men  as  Art  Ryerson,  trombone;  Toots 
Mohdello,  both  sax  and  clarinet;  Sam  Schoobe,  bass; 
Jim  Nottingham,  trumpet;  and  Howard  Smith,  drums. 


The  letter  "Q"  may  be  the  secret  to  the  fascination 
audiences  feel  for  that  Wonderful,  Xcintillating, 
Yakking,  Zany  fellow  called  Robert  Q.  Lewis.  While 
Lewis  admits  the  middle  initial  doesn't  stand  for  any- 
thing, he  says,  "It  reminds  me  that  shirts  should  be  full 
of  people  and  not  of  stuffing."  This  crack — quick,  quizzi- 
cal and  Robert  Q-ish — holds  more  than  a  little  sound 
sense.  Because,  if  there's  one  thing  Robert  Q.'s  life  is 
full  of,  it's  "people."  The  people  who  queue  up  daily  at 
the  CBS  Radio  studios  in  New  York  get  a  free  and  easy 
laugh  by  watching  the  Lewis  group  perform.  Thousands 
of  home  listeners  have  grown  to  love  Lewis  as  the 
pleasant  fellow  able  to  milk  the  last  ounce  of  humor  out 
of  both  prepared  show  material  arid  the  unforeseen  inci- 
dent which  simply  pops  up  during  show  time.  And  be- 
yond these  two  groups  of  radio  "friends"  are  all  the 
people  who  are  members  of  the  Robert  Q.  Lewis  team. 

Robert  Q.  has  been  polishing  up  the  high  glossy  per- 
fection of  his  satirical  variety  show  for  years,  getting 
his  experience  the  hard  way — by  working.  In  1941, 
having  had  courses  in  drama  and  radio  production  at 
University  of  Michigan,  he  decided  to  get  out  of  school. 
Station  WTRY  at  Troy,  New  York,  gave  him  a  job.  Then 
so  did  Uncle  Sam.  Following  service,  Robert  Q.  got  back 
before  the  microphone  at  WNEW,  where  he  began  to 
formulate  the  amusing  variety  style  for  which  he  is  now 
famous.  CBS  Radio  network  signed  him  in  1947,  and  his 
tenth  successful  year  is  rocking  along  in  high  gear. 

Judy  Johnson,  Richard  Hayes  and  Ray  Bloch — all 
regulars  on  The  Robert  Q.  Lewis  Show — have  one  thing 
in  common,  despite  their  separate  excellence  as  per- 
formers. Each  one  of  them  was  apparently  born  with 
show-business  inclinations  and  got  off  home  base  and 
into  the  profession  at  startlingly  early  age.  Judy  was  a 
regular  on  radio  stations  in  her  native  Norfolk,  Virginia, 
when  only  nine.  She  sang  with  bands  around  Virginia  at 
eleven,  signed  with  Les  Brown  as  a  singer  when  she  was 
fourteen.  Richard  Hayes  started  singing  while  at  Boys' 
High  School  in  Brooklyn,  N.  Y,  and  had  his  own  radio 
show  five  days  a  week  on  a  Long  Island  station  at  that 
time.  As  for  Ray  Bloch,  he  was  a  choir  boy  at  eight, 
directed  his  first  choral  group  at  twelve,  has  been  con- 
ducting major  orchestras  for  over  twenty  years. 

With  this  talented  nucleus,  further  abetted  by  the 
many  other  performers  who  appear  in  guest  spots,  it's 
small  wonder  that  crowds  queue  up  and  dials  switch  on 
for  Robert  Q.  Lewis,  the  best  patented  chuckle-maker 
you  can  possibly  hear  in  the*  radio  business. 


Mirth  and  melody:  Lewis  provides  most  of  the  mirth, 
Richard  Hayes  and  Judy  Johnson,  most  of  the  melody — 
though   Bob  himself  warbles  in  his  own  carefree  style. 

Continued         k. 


35 


Who's  WH 


The  Robert  Q.  Lewis  Show 


34 


Crowds  queue  up  for  Robert  Q.  at  CBS  Radio, 
to  share  his  show's  fun  and   music  in   person. 


THE  letter  "Q"  may  be  the  secret  to  the  fascination 
audiences  feel  for  that  Wonderful,  Xcintillating, 
Yakking,  Zany  fellow  called  Robert  Q.  Lewis.  While 
Lewis  admits  the  middle  initial  doesn't  stand  for  any- 
thing, he  says,  "It  reminds  me  that  shirts  should  be  full 
of  people  and  not  of  stuffing."  This  crack — quick,  quizzi- 
cal and  Robert  Q-ish — holds  more  than  a  little  sound 
sense.  Because,  if  there's  one  thing  Robert  Q.'s  life  is 
full  of,  it's  "people."  The  people  who  queue  up  daily  at 
the  CBS  Radio  studios  in  New  York  get  a  free  and  easy 
laugh  by  watching  the  Lewis  group  perform.  Thousands 
of  home  listeners  have  grown  to  love  Lewis  as  the 
pleasant  fellow  able  to  milk  the  last  ounce  of  humor  out 
of  both  prepared  show  material  and  the  unforeseen  inci- 
dent which  simply  pops  up  during  show  time.  And  be- 
yond these  two  groups  of  radio  "friends"  are  all  the 
people  who  are  members  of  the  Robert  Q.  Lewis  team. 
Robert  Q.  has  been  polishing  up  the  high  glossy  per- 
fection of  his  satirical  variety  show  for  years,  getting 
his  experience  the  hard  way — by  working.  In  1941, 
having  had  courses  in  drama  and  radio  production  at 
University  of  Michigan,  he  decided  to  get  out  of  school. 
Station  WTRY  at  Troy,  New  York,  gave  him  a  job.  Then 
so  did  Uncle  Sam.  Following  service,  Robert  Q.  got  back 
before  the  microphone  at  WNEW,  where  he  began  to 
formulate  the  amusing  variety  style  for  which  he  is  now 
famous.  CBS  Radio  network  signed  him  in  1947,  and  his 
tenth  successful  year  is  rocking  along  in  high  gear. 

Judy  Johnson,  Richard  Hayes  and  Ray  Bloch— all 
regulars  on  The  Robert  Q.  Lewis  Show— have  one  thing 
in  common,  despite  their  separate  excellence  as  per- 
formers. Each  one  of  them  was  apparently  born  with 
show-business  inclinations  and  got  off  home  base  and 
into  the  profession  at  startlingly  early  age.  Judy  was  a 
regular  on  radio  stations  in  her  native  Norfolk,  Virginia, 
when  only  nine.  She  sang  with  bands  around  Virginia  at 
eleven,  signed  with  Les  Brown  as  a  singer  when  she  was 
fourteen.  Richard  Hayes  started  singing  while  at  Boys 
High  School  in  Brooklyn,  N.  Y.,  and  had  his  own  radio 
show  five  days  a  week  on  a  Long  Island  station  at  that 
time.  As  for  Ray  Bloch,  he  was  a  choir  boy  at  eight, 
directed  his  first  choral  group  at  twelve,  has  been  con- 
ducting major  orchestras  for  over  twenty  years. 

With  this  talented  nucleus,  further  abetted  by  the 
many  other  performers  who  appear  in  guest  spots,  its 
small  wonder  that  crowds  queue  up  and  dials  switch  on 
for  Robert  Q.  Lewis,  the  best  patented  chuckle-maker 
you  can  possibly  hear  in  the'  radio  business. 


Ray  Bloch,  conductor  of  top  programs  on  both  radio  and 
TV,  gives  the  downbeat  on  The  Robert  Q.  Lewis  Show, 
to  such  talented  men  as  Art  Ryerson,  trombone;  Toots 
Mondello,  both  sax  and  clarinet;  Sam  Schoobe,  bass; 
Jim  Nottingham,  trumpet;  and  Howard  Smith,  drums. 


Mirth  and  melody:  Lewis  provides  most  of  the  mirth, 
Richard  Hayes  and  Judy  Johnson,  most  of  the  melody — 
though  Bob  himself  warbles  in  his  own  carefree  style. 

Continued         W 


35 


L 


The  Robert  Q.  Lewis  Show 


(Continued) 


Music:  Richard  Hayes 
had  a  radio  show  while 
still  at  Boys'  High  in 
Brooklyn.  Judy  Johnson 
had  own  program  at  9, 
down    in    Norfolk,    Va. 


Words:  Lee  Vines,  announcer  on  Robert 
Q.  Leivis  Show,  got  his  first  radio  job 
as  high-school  student  in  Camden,  N.  J. 


SONGSTRESS  JUDY  JOHNSON  was  born  in  Norfolk, 
Va.,  has  been  singing  since  she  was  three,  and  barn- 
stormed the  country  with  such  notable  bandsmen  as 
Les  Brown,  Jan  Savitt,  Frankie  Carle  and  Sammy  Kaye. 
She's  appeared  in  theaters,  night  clubs,  summer  stock 
and  in  the  touring  company  of  "High  Button  Shoes" 
and  the  New  York  City  Center  production  of  "Guys  and 
Dolls."  Married  to  musical  director  Mort  Lindsey,  she 
now  lives  in  Nutley,  N.  J.,  with  son  Steven  and  daughter 
Bonney  (Judy's  own  maiden  name)  and  an  enormous 
collection  of  four-footed  friends.  Her  present  assignment 
with  The  Robert  Q.  Lewis  Show  suits  her  to  a  T,  giving 
her  ample  time  for  her  home,  along  with  radio  and  TV. 

BARITONE  RICHARD  HAYES  was  born  in  Brook- 
lyn in  1930.  A  professional  singer  from  high-school  days, 
he  was  hired  after  graduation  by  Teddy  Phillips'  orches- 
tra. Arthur  Godfrey's  Talent  Scouts  awarded  him  top 
honors,  and  Hayes  won  his  first  recording  contract. 
Hayes'  first  record,  "The  Old  Master  Painter,"  was  a  big 
hit.  Work  with  CBS  Radio's  Songs  For  Sale  and  Jack 
Paar  Show  kept  him  busy  until  joining  the  service.  In 
the  Army,  he  wrote  radio  scripts  for  recruiting  purposes. 
Discharged  in  1956,  he  returned  to  radio  and  TV,  has 
appeared  regularly  as  a  singer  ever  since.  Richard  and 
Monique   (just  wed  this  summer)   live  in  Manhattan. 

MUSIC-MAN  RAY  BLOCH  was  born  in  Alsace-Lor- 
raine in  1902,  but  his  father  brought  him  to  the  United 
States  while  still  a  lad.  Ray's  music  talent  was  quickly 
evident  and,  with  family  encouragement,  well  developed. 
First  job  of  importance  musically  was  as  pianist  for  a 
music  publisher.  Band  work  came  next,  then  a  switch 
to  radio  in  the  late  1920's  as  pianist,  arranger-accompan- 
ist, leader  of  choral  groups  and  conductor.  Bloch  has 
also  conducted  on  top  TV  shows.  He's  married  to  Ann 
Seaton,  singer,  and  they  have  a  farm  near  New  York. 


The   man   who   started    it   all — with    a   fistful    of   mikes — Robert   Q.,    broadcasting's    humorist   extraordinary. 


ROBERT  Q.  LEWIS,  humorist,  appropriately  burst  in- 
to the  world  in  April,  year  1921.  The  world  has  been  a 
happier  place  since  then,  starting  with  a  Lewis  garage- 
circus  production  starring  a  tattooed  lady,  a  weary  war- 
rior-horse and  some  jungle-type-domestic-cat  kittens. 
Since  that  early  effort,  Robert  Q.  has  parlayed  through 
DeWitt  Clinton  High  School  in  New  York,  the  Uni- 
versity of  Michigan  (part-way),  jobs  at  a  Troy  radio 
station,  with  the  Air  Force,  and  various  New  York  radio 


stations — until  CBS  Radio  tapped  him  in  April,  1947. 
Since  then,  Lewis  has  worked  almost  every  time  seg- 
ment of  the  broadcasting  day  and  week  over  CBS 
Radio  (as  well  as  TV),  experimenting  with  variety 
formats  and  materials.  He  even  became  a  singer — 
carefree  style — or,  as  he  prefers  to  classify  it,  "slightly- 
flat"  style.  It's  popular  with  the  customers,  and — so 
long  as  it  is — Robert  Q.  will  continue  to  send  on  such 
old  ballads  as  "Cecilia"  and  "Paddlin'  Madeline  Home." 


The  Robert  Q.  Lewis  Show,  with  its  variety  of  top  entertainers  and  guests,  is  heard  over  CBS  Radio — Monday  through  Friday 
evenings,  from  8  to  8:30  P.M.  EDT — and  on  Saturday  morning,  from  11:05  A.M.  EDT  to  12  noon — under  multiple  sponsorship. 


37 


Success  has  come  to  Kathi  Norris 

on  TV  for  the  same  reasons 
it  has  blessed  her  private  life 

By  MARTIN  COHEN 

The  private  life  of  Kathi  Norris  is  closely 
parallel  to  her  professional  career.  Every 
time  she's  had  a  baby  (and  she's  had  three), 
there's  been  an  important  change  in  her  career. 
Less  than  a  month  after  the  birth  of  her  third 
child,  she  joined  the  high-rated  TV  dramatic 
series,  True  Story,  as  hostess,  but  not  just  as 
"another  hostess."  Kathi  is  not  the  kind  to  stick 
to  an  old  formula.  Instead,  she  upset  the  estab- 
lished conception  that  a  hostess  on  TV  must  be 
chichi-charming.  Instead,  she  insisted  on  estab- 
lishing a  link  of  reality  with  the  TV  audience. 

Kathi  explains,  "True  Story  on  TV  is  based  on 
actual  experiences  of  real  people.  The  TV 
episodes  are  not  concoctions  of  a  professional 
writer.  Instead,  they  reflect  the  real  problems, 
hopes  and  dreams  of  True  Story's  readers.  Well, 
it's  my  job  to  establish  (Continued  on  page  68) 


Bright  young  Bradley  treats  parents  Kathi  and 
Wilbur  Stark  as  "walking  dictionaries" — so  they 
introduce  him  to  the  real  thing,  quick  as  can  be. 


Kathi  Norris  is  story  editor  of  True  Story,  on  NBC-TV,  Sat., 
12  noon  EDT,  as  sponsored  by  Sterling  Drug,  Inc.  and  others. 


Jfor  Steve  Allen  and  Jayne  Meadows,  a  march  of  TV  triumphs,  a  lilting 

serenade  to  marriage — and  a  tender  lullaby  for  an  eagerly  awaited  event 


41 


Holiday:  Steve  and  Jayne  went  boating,  watched  the 
changing  sea — and  dreamed  ahead.  Even  more  exciting 
than  the  success  of  The  Steve  Allen  Show  and  I've  Got 
ASecretv/as  that  eagerly  awaited  November  "premiere." 


42 


**"«<*. 


Good  sport  though  she  is,  there  was  no  football 
for  Jayne!  But  the  two  Steves  practiced  throwing 
passes — with  no  signs  of  interference  from  Brian. 


Steve's  Sunday-night  program  on  NBC-TV,  The 
Steve  Allen  Show,  zoomed  up  into  the  heady  heights  of 
the  Top  Ten  of  Television  long  before  its  first  anni- 
versary last  June  23.  And,  of  course,  I've  Got  A  Secret, 
emceed  by  Garry  Moore  over  CBS-TV  with  Jayne  as  a 
panelist,  has  been  in  the  top-ten  category  steadily  for 
more  than  three  years;  it  marked  its  fifth  triumphant 
anniversary  on  the  air  June  16.  Two  red-letter  days  in 
one  week  for  the  Stephen  Valentine  Aliens.  And  all  this 
only  a  part  of  their  cause  for  rejoicing. 

"I  knew  all  along  this  would  be  a  good  year  for  us," 
Jayne  said,  as  she  came  in  and  sat  down  on  the  long, 
low  beige  sofa,  her  Chinese-red  house  robe  making  a 
bright  splash.  A  rather  tall,  extremely  feminine  woman, 
vivid  and  vivacious,  with  red-gold  hair  almost  hidden 
under  a  tightly  wound  scarf  to  protect  her  "set"  for  a 
dinner  date  with  Steve  later.  She  laughed  a  little  at  her 
reason  for  believing  in  this  year.  "I'm  Libra.  My  birth 
date  is  September  27.  Steve's  birth  date  is  December  26, 
which  makes  him  Capricorn.  This  is  a  good  year  for  us." 
(Astrology  fans  take  note  and  check  for  yourselves.) 

The  baby,  expected  this  November,  came  into  the  con- 
versation from  the  beginning.  The  converting  of  Steve's 
den  into  a  nursery.   The  love  that  Steve's  three  young 


Round-table  discussion  of  the  most  intriguing  subject  of 
all:  Jayne  was  sure  the  new  baby  would  be  "just  like 
Steve."  But  the  young  Aliens — like  Steve  himself — were 
hoping  it  would  be  a  miniature  of  their  beloved  Jaynie. 


sons  by  a  previous  marriage  (Stevie,  13;  Brian,  10; 
David,  7)  have  for  this  child.  The  love  Steve  and  Jayne 
are  prepared  to  give,  the  extra  joy  this  baby  will  bring 
to  this  home. 

The  summer  vacation  visit  of  the  boys  and  their 
mother,  Dorothy  (now  happily  re-married,  just  as 
Steve  is  happily  married  to  Jayne).  The  delight  of 
having  the  big  house  on  a  cliff  overlooking  Long  Island 
Sound,  rented  for  the  summer  months  so  the  boys 
would  not  miss  the  freedom  of  their  home  in  California. 
Their  own  boat  dock,   and    (Continued   on  page  66) 

The  Steve  Allen  Show  is  seen  on  NBC-TV,  Sun.,  8  to  9  P.M.  EDT, 
sponsored  by  S.  C.  Johnson  &  Son,  Greyhound  Corp.,  Pharma-Craft 
Corp.  Jayne  is  a  regular  panelist  on  Tve  Got  A  Secret,  CBS-TV, 
Wed.,  9:30  to  10  P.M.  EDT,  as  sponsored  by  Winston  Cigarettes. 


This  Ms  Your  Life 


i 


You're  a  happy  man  today,  Ralph  Edwards,  with  your 
wife  Barbara,  daughters  Christine  and  Lauren,  son  Gary. 
There  are  others  who've  helped  you,  from  early  boyhood 
until  success,  and  you'll  never  forget — though  you 
can  never  reveal  your  gratitude  on  This  Is  Your  Life. 


Here,  in  the  memories  of  those  who 
know  him  best,  is  the  story  that  will 
never  be  told  in  front  of  TV  cameras 


¥    1 


Barbara    herself    has    not    heard    all    the    out-ot-school 
anecdotes  told  here,  but  she  remembers  that  courtship! 


Ralph  Edwards  emcees  This  Is  Your  Life,  NBC-TV,  Wed.,  10  P.M. 
EDT,  for  Procter  &  Gamble  (Crest,  Ivory  Soap,  Lilt,  and  Prell). 
Truth  Or  Consequences,  created  and  produced  by  Ralph  Edwards, 
emceed  by  Bob  Barker,  is  seen  on  NBC-TV,  M-F,  11 :30  A.M.  EDT. 


RALPH  EDWARDS  ! 


» 


By  DORA  ALBERT 

Every  week,  about  5,000  fan  letters 
pour  into  the  office  of  Ralph 
Edwards,  genial  master  of  cere- 
monies on  This  Is  Your  Life.  Most 
of  them  suggest  names  of  individuals 
who  would  make  stirring  subjects  for 
This  Is  Your  Life — and,  of  all  the  life 
stories  requested,  that  of  Ralph  Ed- 
wards heads  the  list. 

Often,  his  staff  has  been  tempted 
to  put  Ralph's  life  on  TV,  but  Ralph 
himself  has  squelched  all  such  at- 
tempts with  one  vigorous,  sincere 
statement:  "Don't  ever  do  it,  if  you 
want  to  be  around  working  for  me 
the  day  afterward."  On  this  point, 
he  is  absolutely  adamant. 

Why  does  Ralph  object  so  violently 
to  his  life  being  put  on  his  TV  pro- 
gram? "I  have  the  feeling  it  would 
distort  my  position,"  he  says  ear- 
nestly. "As  it  is,  I  come  up  to  the 
glass  window  showcase  of  life  with- 
out cracking  it  and  coming  through. 
But  if  I  were  the  subject,  the  viewer, 
on  seeing  me,  would  feel  that  I  repre- 
sented a  conflicting  force  on  the  stage. 
Never  again  would  I  be  regarded  as 
merely  a  narrator  on  This  Is  Your 
Life.  Having  stepped  through  an  in- 
visible glass  wall,  I  would  be  in  the 
position  of  competing  with  the  very 
people  I  was  presenting. 

"Besides,  if  I  knew  that  my  life 
were  someday  going  to  be  presented, 
it  would  make  the  show  unendurable 
to  me.  It  would  be  impossible  for 
me  to  come  into  the  studio,  Wednes- 
day after  Wednesday,  wondering  if 
this  would  be  the  night  my  staff  was 
going  to  surprise  me.  I  just  couldn't 
stand  the  suspense!" 

Since  you'll  never  see  Ralph's  life 
on  his  TV  show,  here  in  TV  Radio 
Mirror  we  present  the  kind  of  infor- 
mation about  Ralph  you'd  get  if  he 
were  the  subject  of  This  Is  Your  Life. 
To  get  this  story,  I  lunched  with  a 
half-dozen  people  who  know  Ralph 
well,  and  I   (Continued  on  page   79) 


Jj 


CJ3* 


msm. 


w| 


»*- 

,i 

E&HC23 

* 

"W>^»+  i1 

2 

[**+^ft 

*+ 

L***^E 

*f 

jk . 

■t""- 

-*£"L^E 

l+i 

51' " 

1 

E**^B 

'*+ 

m  '"  '   A 

JL. 

R£*-^K 

*f 

2£ 

** 

S* 

it 



,..V.  .••-'• 


y 


What  Have  Thev  Got 


Are  teen-age  girls  really  jealous?    Are  they 
buying  only  male-voice  records?    Such  songbirds 
as  these  may  prove  "the  experts"  wrong! 


By  HELEN  BOLSTAD 


ABC-Paramount,  distributing  Jodie  Sands'  Chancellor  recording  of 
"With  All  My  Heart,"  proved  right-girl-and-song  could  be  a  hit. 


HER  voice  might  hold  the  hopes,  the  frus- 
trations, the  tenderness  and  the  protest 
of  young  love  .  .  .  her  fresh  beauty  might  be 
the  stuff  that  dreams  are  made  of  .  .  .  yet,  for 
the  past  year,  the  aspiring  young  girl  singer 
might  as  well  have  hidden  her  head  in  a 
barrel  and  put  her  ambition  in  her  pocket. 
The  popularity  charts  were  flying  "For  Men 
Only"  flags  labeled  Elvis  or  Pat  or  Tab  or 
Guy  or  Sonny  or  Buddy.  A  new  girl  alone 
just  couldn't  get  a  hit. 

It  was  all  the  girls'  fault,  too,  said  some 
experts.  Not  the  girls  who  made  the  records, 
but  the  ones  who  listened.  "It's  the  girls  who 
phone  the  deejays,  the  girls  who  form  the 
fan  clubs,  the  girls  who  buy  the  records," 
they  asserted.  Where  once  girls  found  in  a 
Patti  Page,  a  Teresa  Brewer,  a  Dinah  Shore 
or  a  Lena  Home  the  vision  of  a  singing 
"second  self,"  they  now  preferred  to  hear  the 
direct,  if  disembodied,  wooing  of  the  male. 

As  a  result,  a  whole  crop  of  young  newly 
starred,  rocking,  rolling  glamour  boys  have 
had  a  field  day.  So  have  the  psychologists, 
pseudo  and  scientific,  with  their  surveys, 
studies  and  explanations.  Some  took  the 
tack  that  to  swoon  with  Boone  or  palpitate 
with  Presley  was  just  another  normal  re- 
action to  the  way  kids  were  going  steady. 
Tied  to  one  boyfriend  from  first  date  to  the 
big  I-do,  a  girl  had  to  find  some  variety,  if 
only  in  her  imagination. 

Following  the  same  vein,  other  elders 
thought  it  was  the  boyfriends  who  intensified 
the  trend  by  finding  the  male  singers  as 
helpful  as  a  John  Alden.  Out  on  a  date,  they 
have  a  way  of  popping  a  dime  into  a  juke 
box  to  ask  some  recording  star  to  convey  in 
song  the  romantic  message  they  are  too  shy 
to  speak  themselves. 

But  there  were  also  those  who  found  sin- 
ister the  femme  fans'  fervor  for  the  boys 
who  give  a  passionate  beat  to  ardent  lyrics. 
They  berated  the  recording  companies  for 
catering  to  the  un-understood  sex  urges  of 
adolescents.  In  a  recent  "expose,"  a  Chi- 
cago music  critic  charged  that  pop  hits  are 
the  product  of  "manipulation  by  money- 
hungry  adults  of  the  half-felt  cravings  of 
teenagers." 

To  this,  the  recording  companies  could 
give  a  tart  reply.  If  such  "manipulations" 
existed,  the  cravings  indeed  must  be  only 
half-felt  ...  by  half  the  teenagers.  The 
boys  who  might  be  yearning  for  a  vocalizing 
dream-girl  weren't  even  represented. 

A  more  sound  explanation  of  what  has 
been  happening  is  to  be  found  in  the  frank 
acknowledgment  by  some  of  the  wiser  re- 
cording   executives    that    they    themselves 


46 


Gainst  GIRL  SINGERS  ? 


might  have  been  somewhat  carried  away. 
The  search  for  "another  Presley,"  who  might 
rival  the  Memphis  marvel's  profit-making 
ability,  had  concentrated  the  attention  of 
both  talent  scouts  and  songwriters  on  the 
male  vocalist,  thus  limiting  the  opportuni- 
ties offered  to  teen-age  girl  singers.  . 

It  was  time,  many  felt,  to  do  something 
about  it.  The  new  girls  should  be  ought 
out  and,  when  one  was  found,  the  song 
should  be  styled  to  suit  her  way  of  expres- 
sion. Girls'  songs  should  not  be  mere 
"covers"  of  ones  boys  had  made  popular. 
Once  recorded,  the  girl  should  be  introduced 
with  the  same  promotional  fanfare  accorded 
a  male  singer. 

Among  the  first  to  prove  that  the  right 
girl  with  the  right  song  could  reach  the  hit 
lists  was  ABC -Paramount,  which  distrib- 
utes Jodie  Sands'  Chancellor  recording, 
"With  All  My  Heart."  Jodie,  in  turn,  had 
something  special  to  give.  In  her  Philadel- 
phia home,  the  classics  were  as  essential  to 
the  family's  life  as  the  spaghetti  on  the 
table.  Her  father  had  sung  opera  in  Italy. 
From  the  time  dark-eyed  Jodie  could  read 
a  note,  her  objective  had  been  the  Metro- 
politan Opera.  It  was  her  father's  ambition 
for  her  and  she  made  it  her  own. 

But,    in    between    the    adolescent    dream 

which  began  in  Italy  and  the  generation- 

*  later   dream   fostered   in   America,    came   a 

Continued         k. 


RCA  Victor  believed  there  was  a  star  spot  waiting  for  a  teen-age 
girl.   Now  Bonnie  Scott,  16,  is  so  busy  her  young  feet  need  a  rest! 


Barbara  Allen  has  more  than  justified  faith  of  Decca's   Paul   Cohen   (left)   and   songwriter  Vic   McAlpin. 


47 


What  Have  They  Got  Against  GIRL  SINGERS? 


(Continued) 


"Sixteen"  is  Joy  Layne's  new  Mercury  disc — also  her  age.  Deejays 
can't  believe  it,  keep  Joy  flying  from  Chicago  to  prove  in  person 
that  she's  younger  than  she  sounded  on  her  first  record  last  year. 


modern-day  miracle,  television.  The  pros- 
pect of  entertaining  an  audience  of  millions 
proved  more  alluring  to  Jodie  than  the  hope 
of  facing  the  Golden  Horseshoe  at  the  Met. 
By  learning  to  sing  popular  music,  Jodie 
earned  a  place  on  a  local  TV  show.  Singing 
at  teen-age  hops  around  Philadelphia  gave 
her  a  chance  to  work  with  two  young  men 
who  believed  in  her,  Bob  Marchucci  and 
Peter  DeAngelis.  Bob,  a  lyric  writer,  and 
Peter,  a  composer  and  arranger,  are  now 
co-presidents  of  Chancellor  Records.  Shar- 
ing Jodie's  Italian  tradition,  they  knew  how 
to  translate  her  classic  training  and  full, 
controlled  vibrato  into  popular  terms. 

As  with  Johnny  Mathis,  who  also  was 
once  an  opera  student,  the  quality  made  the 
hit.  "With  All  My  Heart"  is  based  on  an 
old  Italian  folk  song.  Its  novelty  is  the 
chorus,  which  Jodie  sings  in  English  against 
the  contrapuntal  background  of  a  male 
quartet  singing  in  Italian.  Teen-age  Amer- 
ica found  it  an  interesting  change.  When 
her  record  climbed  on  the  popularity  charts, 
Alan  Freed  invited  her  into  the  cast  of  his 
summer  rock  'n'  roll  show  at  New  York's 
Paramount  Theater. 

For  all  her  new-found  success,  Jodie  re- 
tains her  modest  manner  and  her  charm. 
In  fact,  she's  a  little  awed  by  all  the  acclaim. 
When  she  finds  time  free  from  her  night- 
club engagements  and  her  promotional  tours 
on  the  disc-jockey  circuit,  she's  happy  to 
return  to  the  Philadelphia  home  which  she 
shares  with  her  mother  and  brother.  A 
chance  to  go  bowling  or  horseback  riding 
with  her  friends  is  her  reward  for  the  hard 
work    which    has    gone    into    making    her 


Gayla  Peevey  sang  "I  Want  a  Hippopotamus 
for  Christmas."  What  she  got  was  Columbia 
contract — now,  at  14,  she  sings  of  first  love. 


iL 


48 


Dot  Records  has  high  hopes  for  Carol  Jarvis, 
who  does  such  message-ballads  as  "Rebel"  in 
style  as  sultry  as  her  own  dark,  willowy  beauty. 


first  record  such  a  hit  on  the  pop  song  charts. 

At  RCA  Victor,  Joe  Carlton's  conviction 
that  there's  an  actual  shortage  of  teen-age 
feminine  talent  in  all  entertainment  fields 
has  led  to  what  he  calls,  "my  private  Ladies' 
Day  promotion."  He  says,  "Sure,  I  know 
that  it  runs  counter  to  what  has  seemed  to 
be  the  teen-age  preference.  But  I  figure,  if 
I  stick  my  neck  out,  others  will  get  on  the 
bandwagon  and  the  girls  will  get  a  break." 

Joe,  as  artists-and-repertoire  man  for  pop 
single  records,  is  in  a  sensitive  spot  to  pre- 
dict trends  and  also  has  had  much  to  do  with 
crystallizing  them.  When  RCA  Victor  first 
signed  Presley  as  a  country-and-Western 
artist,  Joe  supervised  the  promotion  which 
swung  Elvis  over  into  the  popular  recording 
field.  Now  he  believes  that  young  record 
buyers  want  more  than  just  rock  'n'  roll. 
"It's  no  longer  a  fad  nor  a  rebellion.  It's 
an  accepted  form  and  kids  have  begun  to 
look  for  something  new.  There  have  been 
ripples  which  indicate  that  they  want  more 
quality  and  also  more  variety."  Recogniz- 
ing that  no  teen-age  girl  held  star  status, 
he  began  his  search.  "It  only  makes  sense. 
We  need  a  broad  base  of  interest  in  record- 
ings. A  girl  singer  has  her  own  emotional 
message  to  give." 

Joe  found  his  candidate  for  RCA  Victor 
stardom  in  Bonnie  Scott,  a  Philadelphia- 
born  sixteen-year-old  who  grew  up  in  Hol- 
lywood. Bonnie  had  begun  dancing  lessons 
at  the  age  of  two-and-a-half;  at  three,  she 
performed  in  an  Atlantic  City  theater  and, 
at  thirteen,  she  began  to  get  minor  roles  in 
movies  and  to  win  TV  talent  contests. 

Demonstration  records  which  she  had 
made  led  to  an  interview  and,  when  Joe  met 
Bonnie,  he  called  her,  "the  sweetest  little 
schizophrenic  I've  ever  seen."  To  Joe,  dark- 
eyed  Bonnie  looked  as  child-like  as  his  own 
daughter,    Pam,     (Continued    on    page   83) 


Capitol  Records  helped  Sue  Raney  celebrate  both  her  high-school 
graduation  and  eighteenth  birthday,  just  last  June,  with  release  of 
"The  Careless  Years"  and  "What's  the  Good  Word,  Mr.  Bluebird." 


49 


Most  work  goes  into  the  main  dish — but  Agnes  Young 
prepares  casserole  far  in  advance,  stores  it  till  cooking  time. 


HOT  CHICKEN  SALAD 

Makes  6  servings. 

Prepare: 

2  cups  cubed,   cooked  chicken 

Canned,   commercially   cooked,   leftover   or   specially 
prepared  roasted  or  boiled  chicken  can  be  used.    IY2 
pounds  of  canned  or  purchased  sliced  chicken  will  be 
needed,  or  the  meat  from  a  4-pound  roasting  or  stewing 
hen.  Remove  skin  and  any  fat  before  cubing  meat. 
2  cups  diced  celery 
1%  cups  slivered  blanched  almonds 
2  teaspoons  grated  onion 

Put  all  ingredients  in  a  large  bowl.  Mix  lightly. 
Add: 
Y2  teaspoon  prepared  mustard  %  teaspoon  salt 

Mix: 
1  cup  mayonnaise  -  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

Add  to  chicken,  again  mixing  lightly.   Turn  into  a  2- 
quart  casserole.    Top  with  a  mixture  of  finely  crushed 


potato  chips  and  a  little  grated  American  cheese.  Place 
casserole  in  a  large,  shallow  pan  of  hot  water,  and  bake 
in  a  hot  oven  (425°  F)  12  to  15  minutes,  or  until  mixture 
is  heated  through.   Serve  at  once. 

CRANBERRY-ORANGE  RELISH 

Makes  1  quart  of  relish. 
Wash  and  pick  over: 

4  cups  fresh  cranberries 

Discard  any  berries  that  are  soft.  Wash,  cut  into  quar- 
ters and  remove  any  seeds  from: 

2  large  oranges 

Put  cranberries  and  oranges  through  a  food  grinder, 
catching  all  the  drip  in  a  small  bowl.  Add  drip  to  ground 
fruit  and  stir  in: 

2  cups  sugar 

Cover  bowl  and  chill  relish  in  the  refrigerator.  It  can 
be  served  the  same  day  it  is  made,  or  it  can  be  stored 
for  several  weeks  before  serving. 


50 


C"# 


L^> 


<0m& 


Agnes  Young's  favorite  buffet  menu 

features  recipes  which  let  a  hostess 
relax  enough  to  enjoy  her  own  party! 


To  a  whole  generation  of  listeners,  she'll  always  be  Aunt 
Jenny;  more  recently,  radio  and  TV  audiences  have 
come  to  know  this  talented  actress  by  her  own  name, 
Agnes  Young.    But,  in  Danbury,  Conn.,  where  she  lives 
in  a  charming  200-year-old  "saltbox,"  she  is  Mrs.  J.  Nor- 
man Wells,  whose  cheery  invitation  to  "come  for  supper" 
is  always  eagerly  accepted.  .  .  .  Both  Agnes  and  husband 
Jimmie  love  to  cook — an  art  they've  also  taught  their 
actress-daughter  Nancy  (now  married,  with  a  baby  girl  of 
her  own).    To  them,  cooking  is  fun,  and  "entertaining" 
something  which  host  and  hostess  should  enjoy  as  much  as 
guests.   In  fact,  one  of  their  favorite  buffet  menus  is  so 
deliriously  simple  (and  simply  delicious!)  that  Agnes  can 
put  it  together  with  a  minimum  of  time  away  from  her 
guests,  even  when  director-acting-coach  Jimmie  can't  be 
home  to  help.  .  .  .  Her  basic  recipes  have  been  adapted 
here,  for  use  in  your  own  kitchen.    The  unusual  casserole 
can  be  prepared  in  advance — even  the  night  before — 
then  stored  in  the  refrigerator  until  company  comes.    The 
relish,  of  course,  can  be  made  'way  ahead  of  time.  With 
these,  Agnes  serves  tiny  French  peas  and,  sometimes,  a 
tossed  green  salad.   The  Wellses  bake  their  own  "old- 
fashioned"  bread,  but  brown  bread  or  crusty  rolls  make  a 
good  accompaniment,  too.    For  a  gala  finish  to  a  Sat- 
urday- or  Sunday-night  buffet,  Agnes  tops  everybody's 
favorite — ice  cream — with  hot  butterscotch  sauce,  two 
"light  or  dark"  versions  of  which  are  given  here. 

Agnes  Young  is  frequently  heard  on  F.B.I.  In  Peace  And  War,  on  CBS 
Radio,  Sun.,  6:05  P.M.  EDT.  She  also  appears  occasionally  with  her 
daughter  Nancy  Wells  in  Ma  Perkins,  CBS  Radio,  M-F,  1 :15  P.M.  EDT. 


LIGHT  BUTTERSCOTCH  SAUCE 

Makes  2  cups  of  sauce. 
Measure  into  a  heavy  saucepan: 

1  cup  dark  com  syrup  2  tablespoons  butter  or 

1  cup  sugar  margarine 

Vz  cup  light  cream  %  cup  water 

Vi  teaspoon  salt 

Stir  until  sugar  has  dissolved. 

Then  stir  over  medium  heat  until  mixture  boils,  then 
cook  slowly  until  a  small  amount  forms  a  soft  ball  when 
dropped  into  cold  water  (230°  F).  Pour  into  a  silver 
bowl  and  serve  while  still  warm. 

DARK  BUTTERSCOTCH  SAUCE 

Makes  1  cup  of  sauce. 

Place  in  heavy  saucepan  or  in  a  double  boiler: 


Vz  pound  caramels 


Vz  cup  hot  water 


Heat  very  slowly,  stirring  occasionally.  When  caramels 
are  melted  and  mixture  is  smooth,  pour  into  a  well 
warmed  silver  bowl,  and  serve  hot. 


"5>  $> J&&J9J&A.   9J9J9J9J9J9J9 


\-     ■ 


<n  c>  <n  <*>  < 


Agnes  gets  her  dishes — and  what  goes  in  "em — all 
set  before  company  comes.  Chicken-salad  casse- 
role goes  into  oven  only  minutes  before  serving. 


Actress  Laurett  Browne  and  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Kenneth 
Newman — who  run  dancing  school  in  Danbury — 
agree  no  "fussed-over"   meal  could  taste  better. 


-   .  :  .  j  v-  .  y  .1  .'}  Ct  Ci  v>  Cj  O   v>  O  -  '  '■-.%■•  >  '  V-   -  ;.-  "    "  "   •  J 


^B    >«0-0,O  <5>  O  O 


O  0  0  e>  o  o  © 

>Wc,W0Wc>-0 


ws    V 


■'(* 


m"^ 


'     4 


4- 


^St> 


■:■'/ 


A 


\ 


J 


Bob  Cummings  took  the  resemblance  to  heart,  when  my  sister  Harriet  came  on  the  set  dressed  up  like 
Schultzy.  Me?  I  took  a  good,  long  look — and  felt  it  was  about  time  to  trade  places  with  Harriet  again. 


By  ANN  B.  DAVIS 


Many's  the  time  I  get  up  at  night  and  look  into  a 
mirror.  This  is  not,  believe  me,  because  I  think 
I'm  so  enchanting.  Nor  is  it  some  kind  of  voodoo 
ritual.  I'm  simply  wondering:  Is  this  me  or  that  other 
girl?  That  "other  girl"  happens  to  be  my  twin  sister, 
Harriet.  By  the  narrowest  of  margins,  she  missed  be- 
ing me.  In  fact,  for  quite  a  while  she  was  me — and,  to 
fracture  the  grammarians  even  further,  I  was  her. 
Now  I'm  going  to  let  you  all  in  on  the  deep,  dark 


mystery  of  the  Davis  girls.  We  switched  places  in  my 
third  year  at  college.  It  was  then  I  began  leading  the 
life  Harriet  had  started  out  to  live,  and  she  began  lead- 
ing the  life  I  had  meant  to  live.  Simple,  isn't  it?  Like 
differential  calculus! 

Let  me  give  you  a  brief  rundown  on  our  background 
before  I  unravel  this  riddle  for  you.  We  were  born 
May  3,  1926,  into  the  middle  of  a  middle-class  family 
in  the  industrial  city  of  Schenectady,  upper  New  York 


Continued 


52 


► 


I'm  really  not  Schultzy.  I'm  not  even 
ME.  Confusing?  Well,  that's  only 
part  of  what  happens  when  you  change 
lives  with  your  own  twin  sister! 


We  twins  started  entertaining  as  soon  as  anyone  would 
listen.  Above,  we're  describing — with  gestures,  yet! — 
how  our  pet  rabbit  ran  away.  Below,  dead-on-target  at 
Girl  Scout  camp  in  1940.  (Who's  at  left?  Li'l  old  me.) 


Which  twin  has  the  curls?  Ha!  But  that's  Mother  between  us 
— as  she  often  had  to  be,  those  days.  Picture  below  shows  I 
was  a  mite  plumper  than  Harriet  ("mighty"  plumper,  says  she) 
when  we  acted  up  at  Strong  Vincent  High   School,   Erie,    Pa. 


IE>cg>mlbIl^  ^XPipcDmlblLcB 


Michigan  U.,  1946:  from  left,  Ed  Sheffel,  Ann  B.  you- 
know,  Corinne  Stevens,  Perry  Norton,  Harriet.  (Yup, 
I  got  us  straight.  Harriet  married  Perry  just  the 
next  year,  leaving  the  stage — and  acting — to  me.) 


1    ' 


(Continued) 

/ 

state.  There  has  always  been  a  slight  disagreement 
between  me  and  my  twin  on  who  came  first.  We 
once  put  this  question  to  my  father.  He  said,  "As  the 
years  go  by,  women  start  worrying  about  their  age. 
Now,  which  one  of  you  girls  wants  the  responsibility 
of  being  older?"  We  studied  his  wise  face  a  moment 
and  decided  it  might  be  better  not  to  know.  But 
Harriet  got  around  this  hurdle.  She  whipped  up  a 
little  something  along  these  lines:  "I'll  trade  you," 
she  said  to  me,  one  day,  in  an  airy  manner.  "You  can 
be  older  and  I'll  be  prettier." 

Twins  can  be  like  that,  you  know.  When  we  were 
nine,  my  sister  pointed  to  a  picture  in  a  magazine  and 
said,  "Mumbledy-bumbledy,  I'm  going  to  look  like 
that."  It  was  a  picture  of  Joan  Crawford.  "How 
about  me?"  I  said.  She  turned  a  page  and  said, 
"Mumbledy-bumbledy,  Crosseyes-hex,  you're  going 
to  look  like  that."  It  was  a  picture  of  Groucho  Marx. 
With  cigar  yet. 

There's  a  record  of  twins  on  my  mother's  side. 
Father  always  held  a  theory  that  it  was  clear  proof 
of  a  two-headed  strain  in  the  family.  That  was  his 
little  joke.  Mother  never  laughed  at  it.  She  said  it 
was  most  unwise  to  encourage  people  to  make  bad 
jokes.  They  might  turn  out  comedians.  I  guess  she 
feels  justified  now.  Anyway,  she  has  five  cousins 
(all  from  the  same  set  of  grandparents)  who  have 
had  twins.  So  far  it  has  skipped  the  current  genera- 
tion.   Maybe  we  aren't  eating  right. 

We  not  only  go  in  for  looking  alike,  we  go  for  the 
same  names.  It's  probably  a  form  of  inbreeding.  We 
have  a  baker's-dozen  of  Harriets,  Anns,  Elizabeths, 
and  so  on.  When  we  get  together  for  a  big  reunion — 
which  isn't  so  often  anymore,  with  all  of  us  spread 
over  the  map — things  get  very  confusing.  We  have 
to  preface  every  remark  with,  "I  mean  Harriet's  Ann," 
or  "I  mean  Ann's  Elizabeth."  My  father  was  given 
the  formidable  title  of  Cassius  Miles  Davis,  after  a 
Civil  War  hero.   I'm  named  (Continued  on  page  77) 


When  Harriet  was  a  bride,  guess  who  was  maid  of  honor?  And, 
when  her  first  child  was  born,  guess  who  was  godmother?  Right! 
Below — again  from  left — sister  Elizabeth  Davis  Keene;  Cassius 
M.  Davis,  our  dad;  Harriet;  baby  Ann  with  doting  godmother. 


Ann  B.  Davis  is  "Schultzy"  iri  The  Bob  Cummings  Show,  as 
now  seen  over  NBC-TV,  Tuesdays,  at  9:30  P.M.  EDT,  spon- 
sored by  Winston  Cigarettes  and  Chesebrongh-Pond's,  Inc. 


54 


Above,  my  own  little  rosebush.  Below,  my 
own   little  phone — with  the   big,   big   bills. 


hk-iB 


Maybe  I'm  not  a  "homemaker,"  but  I 
make  a  lot  of  things  for  my  home. 


Love  those  letters  from  the  fans!  Incidentally,  I 
made  the  desk  above  (as  well  as  the  Dutch  doors  at 
left).  Hi-fi  fan?  It's  "sci-fi"  for  me!  Reading 
about  spacemen  and  rocket  ships,  I  could  go  right 
out  of  this  world — and  take  my  "double"  with  me. 


55 


Madeleine  Carroll's  own  gallantry  and  warmth 
enrich  her  favorite  roles  today — as  Dr.  Anne  Gentry 
on  radio,  as  wife  and  mother  at  home 


By  CHARLOTTE  BARCLAY 

The  scene  was  the  17th  General  Hos- 
pital in  Naples,  Italy.  The  time,  late 
1943.  Litter  cases  from  the  battles  of 
Anzio  and  Cassino  were  coming  in  fast. 
Already,  1,500  wounded  GFs  had  been 
crowded  into  a  building  meant  to  ac- 
commodate 800.  Red  Cross  hospital 
worker  Madeleine  Carroll  brushed  a 
strand  of  blond  hair  from  her  eyes  as 
the  ack-ack  of  the  anti-aircraft  guns 
started  up  again.  This  was  no  Holly- 
wood movie.    This  was  the  real  thing. 

A  thin-faced  boy  with  trembling  lips 
put  his  hand  out  to  her  and  she  took  it, 
holding  it  firmly  in  both  of  hers.  She 
smiled — that  famous  smile  which  had 
flashed  across  a  thousand  screens — and 
the  boy  smiled  back.  The  lips  were 
moving  now,  she  bent  closer  to  catch 
what  he  was  trying  to  say.  "Would  you 
— write  my  mom.  Tell  her — I'm  okay. 
She'll  think — it's  some  war — if  she  gets 
a  letter — from  a  movie  star." 

"That  sort  of  thing  happened  time 
and   again,"    (Continued  on  page  91) 


Reading  is  an  "essential"  to  Madeleine- 


56 


than  a  "MOVIE  STAR 


M 


•  ooth   as   actress   and   as   publisher's   wife 


Madeleine's  career — unlike  Anne  Gentry's — allows 
much  more  time  to  be  with  daughter  Anne-Madeleine,  more  sun- 
lit hours  in  the  garden  of  their  Connecticut  home. 


Madeleine  Carroll  stars  in  The  Affairs  Of  Dr.  Gentry,  produced 
and  directed  by  Himan  Brown,  NBC  Radio,  M-F,  2:45  P.M.  EDT. 


■^ 


57 


wJ*& 


«& 


■  m 

I 


Madeleine  Carroll's  own  gallantry  and  warmth 
enrich  her  favorite  roles  today — as  Dr.  Anne  Gentry 
on  radio,  as  ivife  and  mother  at  home 


By  CHARLOTTE  BARCLAY 

The  scene  was  the  17th  General  Hos- 
pital in  Naples,  Italy.  The  time,  late 
1943.  Litter  cases  from  the  battles  of 
Anzio  and  Cassino  were  coming  in  fast. 
Already,  1,500  wounded  GI's  had  been 
crowded  into  a  building  meant  to  ac- 
commodate 800.  Red  Cross  hospital 
worker  Madeleine  Carroll  brushed  a 
strand  of  blond  hair  from  her  eyes  as 
the  ack-ack  of  the  anti-aircraft  guns 
started  up  again.  This  was  no  Holly- 
wood movie.  This  was  the  real  thing. 
A  thin-faced  boy  with  trembling  lips 
put  his  hand  out  to  her  and  she  took  it, 
holding  it  firmly  in  both  of  hers.  She 
smiled — that  famous  smile  which  had 
flashed  across  a  thousand  screens— and 
the  boy  smiled  back.  The  lips  were 
moving  now,  she  bent  closer  to  catch 
what  he  was  trying  to  say.  "Would  you 
—write  my  mom.  Tell  her— I'm  okay. 
She'll  think — it's  some  war— if  she  gets 
a  letter — from  a  movie  star." 

"That  sort  of  thing  happened  time 
and  again,"    (Continued  on  page  91) 


Reading  is  an  "essential"  to  Madeleine- 


More  than  a  "MOVIE  STAR 


Madeleine's  career — unlike  Anne  Gentry's — allows 
much  more  time  to  be  with  daughter  Anne-Madeleine,  more  sun- 
lit hours  in  the  garden  of  their  Connecticut  home. 


both  as  actress  and   as  publisher's  wife. 


Madeleine  Carroll  star,  in  The  Affairs  01  Dr.^ry   produced 
and  directed  by  Hirnan  Brown,  NBC  Rad.o.  M-F.  2:45  I  Jf.  EDT. 


57 


Rehearsals  are  traditional  at  weddings,  but  Elinor  Jean  Wrubel      Pilot   David   C.   Spohn    and    "retired"    airlines   hostess 
has  a  camera — and  hosts  Bob  Paige  and  Byron  Palmer — at  hers.      Elinor  Jean  are  married  by  the  Reverend  Joe  E.  Elmore. 


»/#«/' 


Shout  your  love  from  the 


Wedding  bells  ring  out  from  coast  to  coast  on  Bride 
And  Groom.   The  newly-returned  program,  which 
has  married  more  than  2,500  couples  in  the  past  ten 
years,  provides  everything  from  clothes  and  confetti  to 
gifts  and  guests  and  honeymoon.     More  important  was 
the  reason  David  Clifford  Spohn,  33,  was  so  happy  to 
marry  Elinor  Jean  Wrubel  on  the  program.     "There  are 
all  kinds  of  weddings  and  all  sizes,"  said  the  pilot  for 
Allegheny  Airlines,  "but  this  chance  ...  why,  this  is  the 
biggest  chapel  in  the  world."  .  .  .  David  and  Jean  met  at 
Newark  Airport  when  the  Utica,  New  York  girl  was  just 
beginning  a  career  as  stewardess  with  Mohawk  Airlines. 
It  was  her  roommate  whom  David  knew,  but  it  was  Jean 
he  took  out,  first  for  a  cup  of  coffee  and  then  for  a  series 
of  dates  that' started  in  January,  1957,  and  continued  to 
their  wedding  on  July  23.  .  .  .  Two  days  after  the  Spohns' 
wedding,  Bride  And  Groom  married  Margaret  Waters,  21, 
and  Jimmie  Lee  Collins,  22.     Both  from  Huntington, 
West  Virginia,  this  couple  want  four  children— one  more 
than  Jean  and  David.    But  they're  a  flying  family,  too. 
Jimmie,  just  graduated  from  Marshall  College,  is  going 
into  the  Naval  Air  Cadets,  then  will  pursue  a  commercial 
artist's  career.     The  Collinses  met  five  years  ago  when 
Jimmie,  hitchhiking  to  go  swimming,  picked  up  a  ride 
with  friends  of  Peggy's.     They  had  their  first  date  that 
night,  then  dated  off  and  on.    The  Christmas  before  last, 
as  Jimmie  says,  "We  really  found  each  other."    Bride  And 
Groom  set  the  date.  Love  and  television — something 
old  and  something  new — make  a  perfect  marriage. 

Bride  And  Groom  is  seen  over  NBC-TV,  Mon.-Fri.,  at  2:30  P.M.  EDT. 


For  that  most  important  dress  of  all,  Margaret  Waters, 
who  works  in  a  dress  shop,  has  a  wardrobe  mistress's  aid. 


58 


Amid  wedding  gifts,  a  cake  and  champagne,  Bob  Paige  toasts  David  and  Jean  as  Byron     -  The  Spohns,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  now, 
Palmer  chats  with  Georgianna  Carhart,  special  guest  of  the  day's  Bride  And  Groom.        honeymoon  at  Saranac  Lake. 


ie     housetops?  No  need,  when  NBC-TV  provides  "the  biggest  chapel  in  the  world 


ii 


The  brothers  are  watching,  said  Jimmie  Lee  Collins  of  his  Pi  Kappa  Alpha      On  a  New  York  honeymoon,  they  looked  at  the 
.fraternity.  So  were  millions,  as  Rev.  Brock  joined  his  hand  to  Peggy's,      birdie  (pigeons),  but  this  one  "didn't  come  out." 


I 


Rehearsals  are  traditional  at  weddings,  but  Elinor  Jean  Wrubel 
has  a  camera — and  hosts  Bob  Paige  and  Byron  Palmer — at  hers. 


»/#^/' 


Wedding  bells  ring  out  from  coast  to  coast  on  Bride 
And  Groom.   The  newly-returned  program,  which 
has  married  more  than  2,500  couples  in  the  past  ten 
years,  provides  everything  from  clothes  and  confetti  to 
gifts  and  guests  and  honeymoon.     More  important  was 
the  reason  David  Clifford  Spohn,  33,  was  so  happy  to 
marry  Elinor  Jean  Wrubel  on  the  program.     "There  are 
all  kinds  of  weddings  and  all  sizes,    said  the  pilot  for 
Allegheny  Airlines,  "but  this  chance  .  .  .  why,  this  is  the 
biggest  chapel  in  the  world."  .  .  .  David  and  Jean  met  at 
Newark  Airport  when  the  Utica,  New  York  girl  was  just 
beginning  a  career  as  stewardess  with  Mohawk  Airlines. 
It  was  her  roommate  whom  David  knew,  but  it  was  Jean 
he  took  out,  first  for  a  cup  of  coffee  and  then  for  a  series 
of  dates  that- started  in  January,  1957,  and  continued  to 
their  wedding  on  July  23.  .  .  .  Two  days  after  the  Spohns' 
wedding,  Bride  And  Groom  married  Margaret  Waters,  21, 
and  Jimmie  Lee  Collins,  22.     Both  from  Huntington, 
West  Virginia,  this  couple  want  four  children — one  more 
than  Jean  and  David.    But  they're  a  flying  family,  too. 
Jimmie,  just  graduated  from  Marshall  College,  is  going 
into  the  Naval  Air  Cadets,  then  will  pursue  a  commercial 
artist's  career.     The  Collinses  met  five  years  ago  when 
Jimmie,  hitchhiking  to  go  swimming,  picked  up  a  ride 
with  friends  of  Peggy's.     They  had  their  first  date  that 
night,  then  dated  off  and  on.    The  Christmas  before  last 
as  Jimmie  says,  "We  really  found  each  other."    Bride  And 
Groom,  set  the  date.  Love  and  television — something 
old  and  something  new — make  a  perfect  marriage. 

Bride  And  Groom  is  seen  over  NBC-TV,  Mon.-Fri.,  at  2:30  P.M.  EDT. 


Pilot  David   C.   Spohn    and    "retired"   airlines  hostess 
Elinor  Jean  are  married  by  the  Reverend  Joe  E.  Elmore. 


Shout  your  love  from  the 


For  that  most  important  dress  of  all,  Margaret  Waters, 
who  works  in  a  dress  shop,  has  a  wardrobe  mistress's  aid. 


Amid  wedding  gifts,  a  cake  and  champagne,  Bob  Paige  toasts  David  and  Jean  as  Byron        The  Spohns,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  now, 
Palmer  chats  with  Georgianna  Carhart,  special  guest  of  the  day's  Bride  And  Groom.        honeymoon  at  Saranac  Lake. 


housetops?  No  need,  when  NBC-TV  provides  "the  biggest  chapel  in  the  world' 


The  brothers  are  watching,  said  Jimmie  Lee  Collins  of  his  Pi  Kappa  Alpha      On  a  New  York  honeymoon    they  looked  at  the 
.fraternity.  So  were  millions,  as  Rev.  Brock  joined  his  hand  to  Peggy  s.      b,rd,e  (p.geons),  but  th,s  one    d,dn  t  come  out^ 


Teal  Ames   models  one  of  her  TV  hairstyles — "a.  ponytail 
that  isn't  a   ponytail,"   soft,   romantic,  feminine  and   easy. 


^rm 


LETS  HER  HAIR  DOWN 

— then  puts  it  back  up,  to  show 

readers  of  TV  Radio  Mirror  how  she's  learned 

to  be  her  own  hairdresser 


Five  days  a  week,  pretty  Teal  Ames  plays  Sara  Karr 
on  the  CBS-TV  drama,  The  Edge  Of  Night.    Like  any 
newly-married  girl,  Sara  Karr  knows  how  important 
it  is  to  stay  wedding-day  pretty.    Cooperating  with  her 
role's  requirements,  Teal  Ames  has  mastered  special 
beauty  skills,  particularly  in  the  hair  department.    Shown 
on  this  page  is  one  of  her  recent  TV  hairstyles. 
Describing  it  as  "a  ponytail  that  isn't  a  ponytail,"  Teal 
here  demonstrates  the  simple  steps  leading  up  to  the 
camera-worthy  result.  Medium-long,  in  tune  with  Sara's 
romantic  character,  this  style  is  particularly  good  for  thin 
hair — note  the  special  trick  of  back  parting  that  gives 
the  illusion  of  lots  of  hair.   Teal  has  some  natural 
wave,  which  she  reinforces  with  a  loose  permanent. 
Because  her  audience  really  notices  her  hair  (she  receives 
a  sack  of  mail  whenever  she  changes  the  style),  Teal 
is  meticulous  about  weekly  shampoos  and  regular 
brushing,  and  counts  on  spray  for  day-long  neatness — 
cues  every  girl  can  use  for  her  own  private  audience. 


By  HARRIET  SEGMAN 


Brush  hair  back  and  make  horizontal  part  halfway  up 
across  back,  anchor  top  with  rubber  band  and  pin. 
Comb  bottom,  bringing  lower  sides  up  and  back  to 
meet  knot  on  top.  This  forms  a  full  base,  like  a  "petti- 
coat." Comb  top,  teasing  from  under  for  added  bulk. 


Hlilfc, 


: 


Fan  out  the  top  half  so  that  it  spreads  out  over  the 
full  bottom  section  of  hair,  and  pin  in  place  at  each 
side.  To  conceal  the  rubber  band,  take  strand  of  hair 
from  the  underneath  section  and  wrap  it  like  a  ribbon 
around  the  rubber  band.  Secure  the  end  with  a  hairpin. 


Front  hair  is  cut  short  and  set  with  three  rows  of  pin 
curls,  all  wound  toward  the  face.  To  comb  these  out, 
brush  the  hair  back,  first,  for  fullness.  Then  pull  ten- 
drils forward  and  arrange  them  on  forehead  and 
temples  to  frame  the  face  softly — as  Teal  Ames  does. 


60 


A 


dams  Has  Two  Lives 


(Continued  from  page  22) 
with  Pepper,  fitting  one  neatly  into  the 
pattern  of  the  other.  "The  great  thpg  to 
me  about  her  writing,"  he  says,  is  the 
light  and  shade  with  which  she  paints  all 
the  characters.  They  have  warmth  and 
feeling.  All  are  three-dimensional.  As  Pep- 
per, I  went  through  a  phase  of  being  quite 
irritable,  almost  rudely  irritable— and  who 
has  not  been,  at  times?  I  went  through 
another  phase  of  being  somewhat  unre- 
liable, and  most  of  us  go  through  a  similar 
period,  at  one  time  or  another,  especially 
when  we  are  young.  As  Pepper,  I  have 
also  tried  to  shape  the  lives  of  others  to 
my  own  mold  (most  recently  to  run  my 
radio  sister's  life)  and  who  does  not  some- 
times make  that  same  foolish  mistake? 

"Basically,  however,  Pepper  is  a  man  ol 
enormous  good  will.  As  the  editor  of  a 
newspaper,  he  is  a  cultivated  human 
being,  kind  at  heart,  with  intense  loyal- 
ties. An  interesting  and  likeable  man.  I 
enjoy  playing  him."  The  fact  is  that  Mason 
Adams  enjoys  acting.  Enjoys  being  in  show 
business.  He  chose  theater  and  speech  tor 
his  Master's  degree  from  the  University 
of  Wisconsin,  although  the  family  trend 
was  toward  medicine.  His  brother  is  a 
professor  at  Stanford  University  Medical 
College.  His  sister  is  a  professor  of  physi- 
ology at  New  York  University  Dental 
School.  He  is  the  only  actor  the  family  has 
produced,  but  he,  too,  began  as  a  teacher 
—of  theater  arts,  that  is— at  the  Neighbor- 
hood Playhouse  in  New  York,  where  he 
had  studied  prior  to  going  to  Wisconsin. 
On  Broadway,  where  he  got  his  first 
professional  experience,  he  was  in  five 
flop  shows  during  his  first  season,  one 
right  after  the  other. 

It  might  be  said  that  a  miracle  launched 
his  radio  career,  a  play  called  "Miracle 
for  Christmas."  This  was  in  1945,  when 
he  was  making  a  radio  debut  on  a  pro- 
gram called  The  Sheriff.  The  producer  of 
another  series,  Grand  Central  Station, 
happened  to  hear  him  that  night  and 
tapped  him  for  the  starring  part  as  the 
ambulance-driver  in  his  Christmas  mir- 
acle play.  The  role  was  so  poignantly 
performed  by  Adams,  and  the  play  so 
popular,  that  thereafter  he  was  asked  to 
do  it  as  a  Christmas  special,  year  after 
year. 

His  success  in  radio  now  assured,  he 
played  major  parts  in  other  Grand  Cen- 
tral Station  dramas;  in  City  Hospital, 
Gangbusters,  Big  Sister,  Aunt  Jenny,  and 
many  others.  On  television,  he  has  been 
on  most  of  the  big  night-time  dramatic 
shows — such  as  Robert  Montgomery  Pre- 
sents, U.S.  Steel  Hour,  Kraft  Theater. 
And  on  many  daytime  dramatic  serials, 
among  them  The  Brighter  Day  and  Love 
Of  Life,  on  which  he  played  important 
running  parts. 

Currently,  in  addition  to  his  alter-ego 
Pepper  Young,  Adams  plays  psychoanalyst 
Dr.  David  Wells  on  CBS  Radio's  Road  Of 
Life,  and  he  has  been  embarking  on  a 
new  phase  of  his  show-business  career, 
an  adjunct  to  acting,  in  which  he  performs 
the  duties  of  spokesman  for  large  industri- 
al firms,  on  television  and  radio,  talking 
about  products  and  policies. 

Straight  acting,  however,  is  the  work 
close  to  his  heart,  as  is  his  long  identifi- 
cation with  Pepper  Young.  Although  he 
almost  missed  out  on  that.  Before  he  was 
asked  to  audition  for  Pepper,  he  had  just 
signed  a  run-of-the-play  contract  with  the 
Chicago  company  of  the  stage  play,  "Dear 
Ruth."  A  non-cancellable  contract.  When 
he  won  out  over  about  a  hundred  aspi- 
rants for  the  Pepper  part,  he  was  a  most 
unhappy   young   man. 

"I  could  get  out  of  the  contract  only  by 
(Continued  on  page  63) 


W»\ 

H«w 

turn 
■dm 
fevoi 
phoh 
fight 


rxf  new 

ith     t 


Biru 


12  pictures  for  $1;  6  for  SO* 


CANDIDS 


1.  Lana  Turner 

2.  Betty  Grable 

3.  Ava  Gardner 

5.  Alan  Ladd 

6.  Tyrone  Power 

7.  Gregory  Peck 
9.  Esther  Williams 

11.  Elisabeth  Taylor 

14.  Cornel  Wilde 

15.  Frank  Sinatra 

18.  Rory  Calhoun 

19.  Peter  Law  ford 

2 1 .  Bob  Mitchum 

22.  Burt  Lancaster 

23.  Bing  Crosby 
25.  Dale  Evans 
27.  June  Ally  son 

33.  Gene  Autry 

34.  Roy  Rogers 

35.  Sunset  Carson 

50.  Diana  Lynn 

51.  Doris  Day 

52.  Montgomery  Clift 

53.  Richard  Widmark 

56.  Perry  Come 

57.  Bill  Holden 

66.  Gordon  MacRae 

67.  Ann  Blyth 

68.  Jeanne  Crain 

69.  Jane  Russell 
74.  John  Wayne 
78.  Audie  Murphy 
84.  Janet  Leigh 
86.  Farley  Granger 

91.  John  Derek 

92.  Guy  Madison 
94.  Mario  Lanza 
103.  Scott  Brady 

105.  Vic  Damone 

106.  Shelley  Winters 

107.  Richard  Todd 


109.  Dean  Martin 

1 10.  Jerry  Lewis 
112.  Susan  Hay  ward 
117.  Terry  Moore 
121.  Tony  Curtis 
124.  Gail  Davis 

127.  Piper  Laurie 

128.  Debbie  Reynolds 

135.  Jeff  Chandler 

136.  Rock  Hudson 

137.  Stewart  Granger 

139.  Debra  Paget 

140.  Dale  Robertson 

141.  Marilyn   Monroe 

142.  Leslie  Caron 

143.  Pier  Angeli 

144.  Mitzi  Gaynor 

145.  Marlon  Brando 

146.  Aldo  Ray 

147.  Tab  Hunter 

148.  Robert  Wagner 

149.  Russ  Tamblyn 

150.  Jeff  Hunter 
152.  Marge  and  Go w- 

er  Champion 

174.  Rita  Gam 

175.  Charlton  Heston 

176.  Steve  Cochran 

177.  Richard  Burton 

179.  Julius  La  Rosa 

180.  Lucille  Ball 
182.  Jack   Webb 
185.  Richard  Egan 
187.  Jeff  Richards 

190.  Pat  Crowley 

191.  Robert  Taylor 

192.  Jean  Simmons 
194.  Audrey  Hepburn 
198.  Gale  Storm 
202.  George  Nader 


205.  Ann  Sothern 
207.  Eddie  Fisher 
209.  Liberace 

211.  Bob  Francis 

212.  Grace  Kelly 

213.  James  Dean 

214.  Sheree  North 

215.  Kim  Novak 

216.  Richard  Davalos 

218.  Eva  Marie  Saint 

219.  Natalie  Wood 

220.  Dewey  Martin 

221.  Joan  Collins 

222.  Jayne  Mansfield 

223.  Sal  Mlneo 

224.  Shirlev  Jones 

225.  Elvis  Presley 

226.  Victoria  Shaw 

227.  Tony  Perkins 

228.  Clint  Walker 

229.  Pat  Boone 

230.  Paul  Newman 

231.  Don  Murray 

232.  Don  Cherry 

233.  Pat  Wayne 

234.  Carroll  Baker 

235.  Anita  Ekberg 

236.  Corey  Allen 


237.  Dana  Wynter 

239.  Judy  Busch 

240.  Patti  Page 

241.  Lawrence  Welk 

242.  Alice  Lon 

243.  Larry  Dean 

244.  Buddy   Merrill 

245.  Hugh  ©'Brian 

246.  Jim  Arness 

247.  Sanford  Clark 

248.  Vera  Miles 

249.  John  Saxon 

250.  Dean  Stockwell 

251.  Diane  Jergens 

252.  Warren  Berlinger 

253.  James  MacArthur 

254.  Nick  Adams 

255.  John  Kerr 

256.  Harry  Belafonte 

257.  Jim  Lowe 

258.  Luana  Patten 

259.  Dennis  Hopper 

260.  Tom  Tryon 

261 .  Tommy  Sands 

262.  Will  Hutchins 

263.  James  Darren 

264.  Ricky  Nelson 


FILL    IN    AND    MAIL 
COUPON  TODAY! 


WORLD  WIDE,  DEPT.  WG- 1 1 
112   Main  St..  Ossining.  N.  Y. 

I  enclose  $ for   candid 

pictures  of  my  favorite  stars  and  have  circled 
the  numbers  of  the  ones  you  are  to  send  me 
by  return  mail. 

Name 

Street 

City 

Zone State 

Fill  out  and  mail  coupon  today.    Send  cash 

or  money  order.  12  pictures  for  $1 :  6  for  50c. 

(No  orders  less  than  50  cents.) 


61 


THE  RECORD  PLAYERS 


This  space  rotates  among 
Gene  Stuart  of  WAVZ, 
Bill  Mayer  of  WRCV, 
AlCollins  of  WRCA  and  NBC, 
and  Art  Pallan  of  KDKA 


■ 


When  Jerry   Lewis  visited,    I   was   all   set  to   turn   into   his 
straight  man.    But  the  comedian-turned-singer  was  serious. 


*  Guv 


By  ART  PALLAN 


Art :  That  strange  sound  you  just  heard 

was  not  a  bird — it  was  Jerry   Lewis, 

one  of  the  warmest,  very  finest  persons 

in  show  business. 

Jerry:  Well,  I'm  glad  to  hear  you  say 

that.  You  know,  every  once  in  a  while 

someone   sounds   off  that   I'm   hard  to 

get   along   with.   I  don't  try  to,   but   I 

guess  sometimes  I  do  get  a  little  excited 

when  things  are  hectic. 

Art:  Well,  Jerry,  I've  known  you  for 

a  long  time,  and  I'm  sincere  in  saying 

that  you  are  a  real  sweet  guy  to  work 

with.  But  I  can  see  that  you  might  be 

tired    on   occasions.   Those   hours   you 

keep! 

Jerry:  Art,  days  were  made  to  work 

and  enjoy  yourself.  Six  hours'  sleep  out 

of  twenty-four  seems  to  be  plenty  for 

me.  I  like  to  keep  going  at  a  fast  pace. 

If  I  sleep  too  late,  I  feel  that  I'm  missing 

something. 

Art:    Let's   change   the   subject   for   a 

minute.    A    short    while    ago,    we    at 

KDKA  had  a  Gold  Record  Spintacular. 

The    only   records   we   played   all   day 

were  those  that  had  sold  a  million  cop- 


ies or  better.  One  of  those  records  was 
your  "Rock-a-Bye."  How  did  a  serious- 
type  record  like  this  come  about? 
Jerry:  I  made  the  record  as  a  present 
to  my  wife,  Patti,  and  she  loved  it — 
thought  it  was  good  enough  to  sell 
commercially.  So  she  sent  it  off  to  Dec- 
ca,  they  pressed  it  and  signed  me  up, 
and  there  you  are. 

Art:  It  was  released  as  a  single,  as  I 
remember.  How  did  the  album  happen? 
Jerry:  I've  always  wanted  to  do  seri- 
ous music.  I  had  done  comedy  tunes 
for  the  past  seven  or  eight  years,  and 
was  never  happy  about  it.  Comedy 
can't  be  thoroughly  projected  on  wax. 
Once  you've  heard  a  funny  tune,  that's 
it.  For  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Public  to  buy  a 
dollar  record,  it  should  have  more 
value  than  one  play. 
Art:  So  you  decided  to  record  eleven 
more  tunes  and  make  your  first  album? 
Jerry:  That's  right,  and  I  really  en- 
joyed singing  with  feeling,  without 
using  any  gimmicks  or  trick  voices. 
Art:  What's  your  favorite  song,  Jerry, 
and  have  you  ever  recorded  it? 


Jerry:  My  favorite  song  is  "I  Dream  of 
You,"  and  both  Patti  and  I  have  re- 
corded it. 

Art:   Quite  a  coincidence — or  is  it? 
Jerry :  It  isn't  a  coincidence  at  all.  Thir- 
teen years  ago,  when  Patti  and  I  were 
just  married  and   I  was   out  of  work, 
she  recorded  the  song  for  Decca  with 
Jimmy    Dorsey.    I    was    in    the    studio 
during    the    session,    and   I    can't    ever 
remember  feeling  any  more  despond- 
ent. Not  that  I  minded  Patti  working. 
I  just  didn't  like  to  have  her  being  the 
only  breadwinner  in  the  family. 
Art:  Then  thirteen  years  later  you  re- 
corded the  same  number,  huh? 
Jerry:  That's  right.  For  the  same  label. 
And  Patti  was  in  the  studio,  listening 
to  me  this  time.  It  was  a  high  point  in 
our  marriage.  I  asked  to  make  the  rec- 
ord ...  I  did  it  for  her. 
Art:  Jerry,  you  aren't  often  this  seri- 
ous. 

Jerry:  Well,  then,  on  with  my  bird 
calls.  Ever  hear  the  Canadian  Red- 
Backed,  Hairy-Nosed  Full-Bloomer?  It 
goes  like  this.  .  .  . 


62 


Art  Pallan  is  heard  over  KDKA  in  Pittsburgh,  Mon.  through  Sat.  from  10  A.M.  to  noon  and  Mon.  through  Fri.  from  3  to  7  P.M. 


Adams  Has  Two  Lives 


(Continued  from  page  61) 
providing  a  suitable  replacement,  and  I 
sweated  it  out,  wondering  whom  to  sug- 
gest. Just  the  day  before  the  play  went 
into  rehearsal,  I  thought  of  an  actor  who 
seemed  right  for  the  part.  I  got  hold  of 
him,  he  was  interested,  he  read  for  it, 
and  was  signed,   and   I  was   free. 

"I  have  always  felt  close  to  this  family 
of  Youngs,  which  has  grown  so  familiar 
to  me  since  that  time.  I  think  of  their 
town  as  real  Middletown,  U.S.A.,  an  aver- 
age kind  of  town,  in  an  average  state. 
Inhabited  by  average  people.  In  spite  of 
having  been  born  in  a  big  city,  New  York, 
and  of  growing  up  in  a  metropolitan  and 
cosmopolitan  atmosphere,  I  and  my  family 
have  always  been  somewhat  small-town 
in  our  attitudes.  Closely  knit,  having 
great  interest  in  everything  that  happens 
to  one  another.  Having  an  interest  in  the 
community." 

He  is  no  apologist  for  radio,  although 
his  work  in  television  has  become  increas- 
ingly important.  He  feels  that  radio  fills 
a  need  in  the  lives  of  many  persons  and 
that  it  calls  for  the  best  any  actor  has  to 
give.  "Listeners,"  he  says,  "might  get  the 
idea  that,  because  radio  acting  is  done 
with  scripts  in  hand,  there  is  no  real  con- 
tact between  the  actors,  as  there  is  on 
the  stage,  in  motion  pictures,  or  on  TV. 
This  is  completely  erroneous.  As  with  all 
acting,  there  is  the  all- important  contact 
of  the  eyes,  the  play  of  expression,  the  lift 
of  the  head,  the  variation  of  voice.  If  the 
actor  doesn't  feel  emotion  and  show  it, 
the  whole  scene  becomes  static." 

Nothing  of  this  sort  ever  appears  to 
happen  on  any  Mason  Adams  show.  There 
seems  to  be  a  fine  rapport  between  him 
and  those  with  whom  he  plays,  especially 


so  in  the  case  of  Pepper's  wife,  Linda, 
played  by  Margaret  Draper.  In  his  voice, 
there  is  affection  for  her,  and  great  re- 
spect for  her  talent,  when  he  talks  about 
her  work,  just  as  there  is  for  many  of  the 
actors  whose  names  enter  into  his  talk. 

There  seems  to  be  unanimous  opinion 
that  Chick  Vincent,  who  has  guided  the 
Pepper  Young  show  from  the  beginning, 
is  the  perfect  director  for  this  program. 
As  Adams  says,  "Chick  has  a  genius  for 
interpreting  the  kinds  of  situations  that 
appeal  to  listeners.  A  better  director 
doesn't  walk  the  earth.  All  of  us  have 
enormous   affection   for  the  man." 

As  a  busy  actor  who  practically  runs 
from  show  to  show  on  days  when  re- 
hearsals and  broadcasts  almost  overlap, 
and  as  a  bachelor  who  likes  his  own  quiet 
home  surroundings  in  the  heart  of  New 
York,  Mason  Adams  turns  to  books  and 
music  for  relaxation,  and  to  radio  and 
television.  When  he  goes  out,  it  is  usually 
to  see  a  new  play  or  a  movie,  or  to  have 
dinner  with  friends  at  a  restaurant.  But, 
mostly,  he  reads  a  great  deal,  is  rather 
proud  of  a  good  library,  collects  record- 
ings, plays  around  with  a  tape  recorder 
that  is  useful  for  working  on  new  roles. 
It  seems  rather  a  shame  that  he  has  no 
special  hobbies  or  do-it-yourself  projects 
— he  could  have  a  really  good  shop,  well 
equipped,  since  this  is  his  dad's  business. 
"I  wouldn't  have  the  time  for  it,  any- 
how," he  says. 

His  small  apartment  is  typically  mascu- 
line, furnished  in  functional  modern,  with 
light  woods  and  simple  lines.  "There's  no 
trouble  keeping  this  kind  of  place  clean, 
and  no  wasted  space,"  is  his  comment. 
The  colors  are  warm  and  restful,  the 
greens   and    bronzes   and    oranges   of   au- 


tumn; the  mood  is  relaxed.  Weekends,  he 
usually  goes  to  Long  Island — except  when 
he's  working — to  his  parents'  home,  where 
he  plays  tennis  and  leads  a  more  active 
outdoor  life. 

Some  months  ago,  the  employees  of  his 
father's  business  gave  a  testimonial  party 
for  their  "boss."  "It  was  quite  a  tribute," 
Mason  recalls,  "considering  that  these  are 
men  who  belong  to  what  is  considered 
one  of  the  'toughest'  unions  to  deal  with, 
and  it  only  points  up  the  kind  of  man 
my  father  is.  They  asked  me  to  help  and 
we  worked  out  a  surprise  type  of  This 
Is  Your  Life  program,  inviting  close 
friends  and  others  important  in  his  life 
story.  I  was  emcee,  and  at  one  point 
called  upon  a  doctor,  one  of  my  father's 
friends.  In  the  course  of  his  little  speech, 
he  mentioned  the  children  my  father  had 
brought  up,  and  when  he  got  to  me  be- 
came confused  and  referred  to  'Pepper 
Martin.'  Everyone  laughed  before  he  cor- 
rected himself,  knowing  that  Pepper  Mar- 
tin is  John  Leonard  Martin,  former  ball 
player  with   the   St.   Louis   Cardinals." 

It  was  a  natural  slip  for  the  speaker  to 
make,  but  it  set  Mason  Adams  to  thinking. 
Was  it  important  to  be  Pepper  Young? 
Were  the  things  the  rest  of  the  family  had 
accomplished  of  greater  value? 

"I  sometimes  feel  sadly  inadequate  when 
I  think  about  the  work  they  are  doing," 
he  has  said.  But,  even  while  he  is  saying 
it,  you  have  the  feeling  that  he  wouldn't 
exchange  his  work  for  any  other.  That  he 
gets  his  satisfaction  from  knowing  how 
many  millions  have  been  entertained,  and 
often  comforted  and  sustained  through 
dark  periods  in  their  lives,  by  a  familiar 
voice  coming  through  a  loudspeaker.  The 
voice  and  the  personality  of  a  friend. 


Karen  Lee  Huklcala, 

Delta  Zeta, 

NORTHWESTERN 

UNIVERSITY, 

says,  "SOLITAIR  is  such 

glamorous  make-up.  ..and 

it  stays  perfect  all  day  long." 


Karen  is  one  of  three 

semi-finalists  in  Campana's 

nationwide  College 

Beauty  Queen  Contest. 

Winner  receives  a 

ten  day  trip  to  Hawaii 

via  Northwest  Orient 

Airlines  and 

ivill  stay  at  the 

i       Royal  Hawaiian  Hotel. 


College  Beauties 
prefer  ^o\ajuu)l 

the  young  make-up 

with  the  NATURAL  look 

It's  the  young  look... the  clear,  fresh  beauty 
Solitair  gives  that  has  captured  the  hearts  of  lovely 
co-eds  all  over  the  country.  Solitair — with  a 
remarkable  new  skin  discovery  called  Vita-Lite — 
gives  such  a  smooth,  fresh,  natural  look 
that  it's  a  campus  favorite  by  day — a  girl's  best 
friend  by  candlelight! 

Smooth  on  Solitair  with  a  moist  sponge — 
Vita-Lite  penetrates...  helps  restore  moisture... 
stimulates  circulation.  Suddenly  you're  lovelier  than 
ever— and  day  by  day  your  complexion  improves 
...tired  lines  seem  to  disappear. 

See  for  yourself.  Get  Solitair,  the  "moisture 
miracle"  make-up... for  the  youngest, 
prettiest  face  you've  ever  had! 

by  CAM  PAN  A 

35*,  69*,  SI. 25  plus  tax  in  better  drug  and  all  variety  stores 


63 


New  Voices  on  Your  Hit  Parade 


(Continued  from  page  20) 
thought  so,  too.  Sister  Helen,  a  nun  who 
learned  what  the  youngsters  could  add  to 
a  church  choir,  wrote  their  first  popular 
arrangements.  Tommy  and  his  four  sis- 
ters, Etta,  Kay,  Sandy  and  Jackie,  formed 
a  unit.  Tommy  was  sixteen  and  admit- 
tedly starry-eyed  about  show  business. 
"Tony  Pastor  was  at  the  Paramount,"  he 
recalls,  "when  I  went  backstage  and  gave 
him  a  record  we  had  cut.  He  liked  us 
and  hired  us." 

They  toured  until  one  sister  fell  ill  and 
another  fell  in  love  and  married.  The  girls 
were  replaced  by  two  newcomers — Rose- 
mary and  Betty  Clooney.  Billed  as  Tom- 
my Lynn,  he  sang  with  the  girls  and  was 
"sort  of  adopted"  into  their  family.  "Their 
uncle  George,  then  about  twenty-eight 
years  old,  was  their  manager,  coach  and 
guardian.  I  roomed  with  him  and  he 
kept  an  eye  on  me,  too." 

Then  the  band  broke  up  and  Tommy 
didn't  know  what  to  do.  "It  hurts  your 
pride  to  come  slinking  home  after  every- 
one has  been  saying  you're  doing  great." 
Yet  home  he  came,  and  was  welcomed  into 
the  fuel  business  which  his  father  and  his 
brothers  own.  Tommy  swept  floors  and 
drove  trucks.  Eventually  he  was  pro- 
moted to  salesman. 

But  singing  was  still  his  business.  Tom- 
my wanted  to  learn  to  sing  correctly  and 
chose  as  his  teacher  the  renowned  Vin- 
cenzo  DiCrescenzo,  a  composer  who  had 
coached  the  great  Caruso.  Tommy  is  still 
devoted  to  DiCrescenzo,  who  sought  to 
teach  him  to  use  his  natural  sound  to  the 
best  possible  advantage.  "When  I  did 
right,"  Tommy  recalls,  "he  would  beam 
and  exclaim  'Molto  bene!'  and  be  so 
pleased." 

The  maestro  imparted  some  of  his  magic 
of  manner,  as  well  as  music,  to  Tommy.  A 
period  of  singing  with  Charlie  Spivak's 
orchestra  was  followed  by  a  time  when 
bookings  were  scarce.  Tommy  took  to  the 
night-club  circuit.  "I  worked  the  plush 
ones,  and  I  worked  the  joints.  It  was  good 
training.  If  an  audience  gets  noisy,  you 
have  to  understand  they're  out  having  a 
good  time.  You  learn  how  to  get  the  whole 
crowd  on  your  side." 

Tommy  has  done  some  radio  and  tele- 
vision shows,  but  Your  Hit  Parade  is  his 
big  break.  "I'm  happy  about  it  as  much 
for  my  folks'  sake  as  my  own,"  he  explains. 


"If  you're  in  the  business,  you  expect  to 
take  the  rough  times  in  stride,  but  it  is 
hard  for  parents  to  understand  this.  They 
want  the  best  for  you  always." 

Unless  his  schedule  of  rehearsals  and 
acting  and  dancing  lessons  becomes  too 
demanding,  he  intends  to  continue  to  live 
at  Cliffside  in  the  midst  of  a  family  which 
now  includes  nineteen  nieces  and  nephews. 
He  likes  the  fun  of  the  big  family  and  the 
informality  of  suburban  living.  He  de- 
scribes himself  as  "a  bad  golfer  and  an 
eager  bowler."  He  likes  to  get  together 
with  a  group  of  young  entertainers  for 
a  few  hours  away  from  the  spotlight. 

His  biggest  personal  dream  is  "to  find 
enough  security  in  this  insecure  business 
so  that,  when  I  find  the  right  girl,  I  can 
think  about  getting  married.  I  want  a 
good  life  for  my  family."  His  professional 
hope  centers  around  his  new  Vik  record- 
ing, "I'd  Climb  the  Highest  Mountain."  If 
it  climbs  on  the  popularity  charts,  the 
night  may  come  when  he  also  will  sing  it 
on  the  show.  "And  that,"  says  Tommy, 
"would  be  the  real  thrill." 

Jill  Corey's  career  is  also  a  family  af- 
fair. She  was  born  twenty-one  years  ago 
in  Avonmore,  Pennsylvania,  the  youngest 
of  the  five  children  of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Domi- 
nick  Speranza.  Her  father  and  her  broth- 
ers, Earl  and  Dominick,  own  the  King  Coal 
Mine.  Her  brother  Bernard  is  now  in  the 
Coast  Guard.  Jill,  too,  is  surrounded  by 
adoring  nieces  and  nephews. 

Closest  to  her  is  her  sister  Alice.  Their 
mother  died  when  Alice  was  fourteen  and 
Jill  four,  and  the  older  sister  quit  school 
to  take  care  of  the  child.  Despite  their 
loss,  theirs  was  a  happy,  musical  family. 
Says  Jill,  "Everyone  played  some  instru- 
ment— trumpet,  clarinet,  drums,  piano.  We 
had  a  music  room,  instead  of  a  playroom, 
and  there  we  all  could  make  just  as  much 
noise  as  we  wanted  to." 

She  had  a  radio  show  when  she  was 
twelve,  and  she  began  singing  with  a  band 
when  she  entered  high  school.  "For  the 
first  two  years,  one  of  my  brothers  turned 
up  to  take  me  home.  But,  after  that,  my 
family  trusted  the  boys  in  the  band  to  take 
me  home."  Throughout  this,  she  kept  up 
her  grades.  "I  graduated  ninth  in  my 
class — but  I  had  missed  more  days  of 
school  than  anyone  else  in  the  class." 

The  manager  of  a  Pittsburgh  radio  sta- 
tion arranged  for  her  introduction  to  Mitch 


I  saved  my 
MARRIAGE 

A  spade  is  called  a  spade  on  the  radio  program 
"My  True  Story".  It  brings  you  frank  stories  about 
real  people — about  their  hates  and  fears,  their  loves 
and  passions.  When  you  hear  these  dramatizations, 
you  may  easily  recognize  some  of  the  problems  that 
are  keeping  you  from  finding  happiness.  So  listen  to 
these  emotion-packed  stories.  Each  one  is  taken 
right  from  the  files  of  True  Story  Magazine. 

Tune  in  Every  Morning  to 

"MY  TRUE  STORY" 

National  Broadcasting  Company 

v     One  terrible  lie  kept  the  secret.   But  a  crime  has  to  be  paid  for,  even  if  it's  never 
R    found  out.    Read  "Cruel  Sacrifice"  in  the  current  issue  of  TRUE  STORY  magazine, 

now  at  all  newsstands. 

64 


Miller,  artists-and-repertoire  man  for  Co- 
lumbia Records  in  New  York.  "My  sister 
Alice  and  her  husband,  Dr.  William  Yock- 
ey,  were  with  me.  I  would  never  have 
dared  go  alone.  I  expected  Mr.  Miller 
would  say,  'Go  home,  little  girl,  and  study 
hard   .  .  .'  " 

The  marvel  of  what  actually  happened 
will  never  fade  for  Jill.  "When  they  asked 
me  what  key  I  sang  in,  I  didn't  even  know 
what  to  say.  I  just  sounded  a  note.  My 
accompanist  was  wonderful.  He  said,  'That's 
C,'  and  went  into  my  number."  And,  in- 
stead of  the  "Go-home-little-girl"  speech 
she  expected,  Mitch  Miller  said,  "You're 
for  us — and  how  would  you  like  to  go  over 
and  audition  for  the  Garroway  show,  be- 
sides?" 

Since  then,  she  has  added  The  Johnny 
Carson  Show,  Robert  Q.  Lewis  Show  and 
others  to  her  credit.  She  has  had  a  disc- 
jockey show  of  her  own  and  now  stars  in 
a  syndicated  film  series  sponsored  by  the 
National  Guard.  Each  year,  her  income 
has  doubled.  "I've  been  fortunate  in  my 
work,"  says  Jill.  Her  manager,  Lloyd 
Leipsic,  says,  "I've  never  seen  any  young 
singer  work  so  hard  and  study  so  con- 
tinuously— voice,  dancing,  acting."  Jill  en- 
larged the  scope  of  her  capabilities  with 
two  summer-stock  appearances.  In  Kan- 
sas City,  she  sang  the  lead  in  "High  Button 
Shoes"  and,  in  Cincinnati,  she  played  a 
straight  dramatic  role  in  "The  Reluctant 
Debutante." 

Through  all  her  swift  rise,  Jill  has  re- 
mained as  sweet  as  when  she  came  from 
Avonmore.  She's  an  appealing  little  crea- 
ture. She  stands  only  five-foot-four  and 
weighs  108  pounds.  (She  diets  on  steak.) 
Her  hair  is  dark  brown  and  her  eyes  are  a 
liquid  brown.  She  moves  with  grace  and 
has  a  shy  smile  which  makes  everyone  in 
a  room  smile  right  back  at  her. 

She  lives,  at  present,  in  a  sublet  apart- 
ment on  New  York's  east  side  and  looks 
forward  to  finding  one  of  her  own.  She 
does  not  feel  she  is  particularly  domestic — 
"I've  yet  to  find  nerve  enough  to  give  a 
party."  But  her  manager  comments,  "She's 
fantastically  tidy.  Every  paper  on  her 
desk  is  squared  away,  and  I  swear  she 
files  her  clothes  rather  than  merely  hang- 
ing  them   up." 

The  motion-picture  offers  which  have 
come  Jill's  way  form  an  important  pari  of 
her  long-time  plan.  "I  just  haven't  yet 
met  love,"  she  admits.  "But,  when  I  do,  I'd 
like  to  settle  down  in  Beverly  Hills  and 
have  a  nice,  big  family.  I'd  like  to  do  a 
picture  now  and  then.  But  if  that  inter- 
fered, I'd  drop  that,  too.  My  family  will 
always  come  ahead  of  my  career." 

Virginia  Gibson  came  to  Your  Hit  Parade 
direct  from  Broadway — where,  until  re- 
cently, she  was  the  ingenue  of  "Happy 
Hunting,"  playing  the  role  of  Ethel  Mer- 
man's daughter.  She  has  done  motion- 
picture  roles  at  Warner  Bros,  and  appeared 
in  a  TV  series,  So  This  Is  Hollywood. 

Virginia,  who  is  five-foot-three,  blond 
and  blue  eyed,  was  born  in  St.  Louis,  the 
daughter  of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  John  Gorski. 
She  has  a  brother,  Bill,  and  three  small 
nieces. 

Because  she  was  a  frail  child,  she  started 
dancing  lessons  at  the  age  of  four.  "My 
parents  thought  the  exercise  would  make 
me  stronger." 

She  was  in  St.  Alphonsus  High  School, 
and  fifteen  years  old,  when  the  dancing 
began  to  turn  into  a  career.  "I  discov- 
ered that  all  the  girls  who  studied  dancing 
and  did  well  were  hired  by  the  Municipal 
Opera  Company."  This  famed  St.  Louis 
organization  stages  a  spectacular  series  of 
outdoor  shows  each  summer.  For  Vir- 
ginia, it  was  an  education.  "We  gave  a 
performance    every   night,    and   each   day, 


from  ten  to  four,  we  rehearsed  the  next 
■week's  show." 

This  training  proved  to  be  her  passport 
to  Broadway.  When  she  had  saved  a  cou- 
ple-hundred dollars,  Virginia  and  a  girl- 
friend set  out  for  New  York.  Immediate- 
ly, she  got  parts  in  shows,  and  the  big  city 
is  still  a  great  delight  to  her.  That  five- 
cent  "ocean  voyage"  provided  by  the  Sta- 
ten  Island  ferry  is  a  favorite  excursion,  but 
her  favorite  of  favorites  is  the  boat  ride 
out  to  the  Statue  of  Liberty.  "Whenever 
friends  come  to  town,  the  first  thing  I  do  is 
to  take  them  to  the  Statue.  The  view  is  so 
beautiful.  From  there,  the  harbor,  the 
Hudson  River  and  the  buildings  make  a 
wondrous  picture." 

Virginia  now  lives  in  an  apartment  hotel. 
"When  you  have  shows  and  rehearsals  to 
do,  it's  most  convenient.  All  the  house- 
keeping is  done  for  you."  The  situation 
may  be  subject  to  change,  for  Virginia  con- 
fesses there  is  a  big  romance  in  her  life. 
She's  not  engaged  to  be  married,  she  says 
— but  neither  is  she  making  any  pro- 
nouncements about  single  blessedness.  "The 
future?"  says  Virginia.  "Let's  see  what 
happens." 

Alan  Copeland,  the  Hit  Parade's  new 
anchor  man,  is  a  singer,  composer,  lyric 
writer,  arranger,  conductor,  mimic,  mu- 
sician and  vocal  arranger.  TV  fans,  of 
course,  have  already  seen  him  on  The  Bob 
Crosby  Show.  For  fifteen  years,  he's  been 
a  member  of  The  Modernaires — but  he 
claimed  his  first  audience  at  the  age  of 
three,  in  Los  Angeles,  under  conditions 
which  made  his  mother  frantic.  After 
searching  for  him  for  hours,  she  found  her 
cherub  caroling  "Free  Blind  Mice"  for  the 
entertainment  of  customers  in  a  neighbor- 
hood butcher  shop. 

Alan  turned  his  vocalizing  into  a  sales 
gimmick  when  he  started  selling  papers 
after  school,  tossing  in  a  few  bars  of  a 
popular  song  with  each  paper  he  sold.  One 
of  his  customers  proved  to  be  choral  di- 
rector Bob  Mitchell,  who  invited  him  to 
join  his  Mitchell  Boys'  Choir.  There  he 
learned  sight-reading,  vocal  arranging  and 
conducting.  When  his  voice  changed,  he 
concentrated  on  study  of  piano  and  ar- 
ranging. He  then  made  his  first  ventures 
into  song  writing. 

He  served  in  the  Navy  as  an  aerial  gun- 
ner and  radio  operator,  and,  after  his  re- 
turn to  civilian  life,  organized .  his  first 
vocal  group,  the  Twin  Tones.  Alan  refers 
to  that  period  as  his  "peanut-butter  days," 
for  that  was  his  staple  diet  during  the 
difficult  time  of  getting  started.  "We  had 
hundreds  of  doors  slammed  in  our  faces," 
he  says.  Then  Jan  Garber  signed  them  to 
sing  with  his  band,  and  they  did  a  year  of 
one-nighters,  cross-country.  "When  you've 
had  a  year  on  the  road,"  says  Alan,  "you're 
ready  to  sing  in  Madison  Square  Garden 
or  Macy's  window." 

Joining  The  Modernaires  came  next. 
And,  on  the  strength  of  their  going  on 
Bob  Crosby's  Club  13  radio  show,  Alan 
married  Dolores  Barty.  The  Copelands 
now  have  three  children  and  have  been 
living  in  a  ranch-style  house  in  Van  Nuys, 
California.  His  offer  for  Your  Hit  Parade 
called  for  very  careful  consideration,  be- 
cause it  also  meant  the  family  must  move 
to  New  York.  "I  guess  every  performer 
gets  the  urge  to  go  out  on  his  own,"  Alan 
says,  "but  it's  a  tough  decision  to  make 
when  you  have  a  family." 

Because  he  has  maintained  a  full  sched- 
ule of  arranging,  making  records  and  writ- 
ing music — Sinatra,  Jo  Stafford,  Frankie 
Laine,  Betty  Hutton,  are  just  a  few  who 
have  sung  his  songs — there's  a  strong  pos- 
sibility that  one  of  those  now  in  the  works 
will  follow  the  path  of  its  predecessors 
and  go  into  the  Top  Seven  Tunes  of  the 
Week — and  that  Mr.  Copeland  himself  will 
have  the  pleasure  of  presenting  it  on  Your 
Hit  Parade. 


Exciting  New  Album 


Here's  something  new  .  .  .  something 
extra  special  for  tv  and  radio  fans.  It's 
a  picture  album  produced  by  the 
editors  of  tv-radio  mirror.  Here  are 
new  and  exciting  pictures  of  your  all- 
time  favorites,  as  well  as  dramatic 
photographs  of  the  shining  new  stars. 
Here,  also,  you  read  about  the  roles 
these  famous  celebrities  play  in  real 
life.  For  greater  tv  and  radio  enjoy- 
ment get  your  copy  of  this  sensational 
album  now. 

New  Season  .  . .  New  Shows 

New  stars  are  being  made,  new  songs 
sung,  new  murders  plotted,  as  a  new 
season  gets  under  way. 
All  over  the  networks,  people  who  are 
well  known  to  you  will  be  turning  up 
in  new  spots  and  in  new  roles.  For 
the  most  glamorous  pictures  of  the 
new  season,  get  your  hands  on  a  copy 

Of  TV-RADIO  ALBUM. 

Big  Pictures 

tv-radio  album  is  just  packed  solid 
with  pictures  .  .  .  wonderful  pictures! 
But  the  most  exciting  ones  are  the  big 
full-page  pictures.  Never  before  have 


we  published  so  many  giant-size  pic- 
tures. These  full-page  true-to-life  por- 
traits are  so  unusual  that  you  will  want 
to  frame  each  one  of  them. 
Make  no  mistake  about  this  great 
album— it's  tops.  It  contains  gorgeous 
pictures  of  all  your  favorite  tv  and 
radio  stars.  Here  in  one  compact  vol- 
ume you  have  the  latest  pictures  of 
every  famous  tv  and  radio  personality. 

A  Prize  Package 
Only  50*  At  All  Newsstands 

This  wonderful  tv-radio  album  is 
available  at  your  favorite  magazine 
counter — now.  Get  your  copy  at  once 
before  they  are  all  gobbled  up!  Only 
50^.  If  your  newsdealer  is  sold  out, 
mail  coupon  below,  with  50^,  today. 

TV-RADIO   MIRROR  Dept.  WG-1157 

205  E.  42  St.,  New  York  17.  N.  Y. 

Send  me  TV-RADIO  ALBUM  1957.  I  en- 
close 50c. 


Name 

Please  Print 


Address , 

City State . 


T 
V 
R 

65 


Year  of  Fulfillment 


f 

V 
A 

66 


(Continued  from  page  43) 
Steve's  boat  which  had  been  held  at  the 
factory  for  many  months  because,  up  to 
then,  he  had  no  way  of  using  it.  Equipped 
for  water  sports  and  fun  for  the  whole 
family  all  summer  long. 

The  fabulous  things  that  have  happened 
and  continue  to  happen  to  Steve  and 
Jayne  career-wise.  Steve's  lyrics  and 
music  for  a  new  song,  "But  I  Haven't  Got 
Him,"  recorded  last  June  by  the  McGuire 
Sisters,  who  did  the  sensational  recording 
of  "Picnic"  for  which  Steve  wrote  the 
lyrics.  His  forthcoming  play  for  Broad- 
way, a  comedy  called  "Jose,"  with  two 
feminine  roles,  in  one  of  which  he  would 
like  to  see  his  wife  (she  would  like  it,  too), 
if  the  play  isn't  already  cast  and  in  pro- 
duction by  the  time  she  is  ready.  Another 
play,  called  "Immanuel,"  done  in  verse,  for 
which  Steve  has  written  a  complete  score 
along  classical  lines. 

Steve's  two  recent  albums,  "Venetian 
Serenade"  and  "Romantic  Rendezvous," 
following  half  a  dozen  others  he  has  re- 
corded. The  songs  he  is  always  composing, 
on  bits  and  scraps  of  paper,  whenever  an 
idea  or  melody  comes  into  his  head. 

This  is  the  year,  too,  when  his  successful 
career  as  a  literary  man  continues  with 
articles  in  national  magazines,  book  re- 
views, columns,  and  a  new  book  underway, 
subject  undisclosed  as  yet.  These  follow 
his  book  of  "Bop  Fables,"  the  collection  of 
some  of  his  short  stories  called  "Fourteen 
for  Tonight,"  his  analysis  of  comedy  called 
"The  Funnymen,"  and  a  book  of  poetry 
titled  "Wry  on  the  Rocks,"  culled  from 
some  more  of  those  bits  of  paper  he  is  al- 
ways writing  on  and  stuffing  into  his  pock- 
ets, or  between  the  pages  of  a  book  he  is 
reading  (or  rescued  by  Jayne  from  the 
waste  basket).  It's  also  the  year  when 
Steve  wrote  words  and  music  for  "The 
Bachelor,"  a  TV  spectacular  which  starred 
Hal  March  and  won  Steve  a  Sylvania 
Award. 

As  one  of  the  busiest  males  in  show 
business,  he  is  married  to  one  of  its  busiest 
girls — because,  in  Jayne's  case,  as  with  all 
wives,  there  is  the  double  and  triple  job 
of  homemaker  and  mother,  housekeeper 
and  cook,  added  to  actress  and  recording 
artist  and  writer. 

Jayne's  career  as  an  actress  started  on 
Broadway  when  she  was  seventeen,  play- 
ing lead  parts  in  six  comedies,  all  of  them 
bringing  her  good  notices.  She  made  eight 
movies  in  Hollywood,  the  first  being  "Un- 
dercurrent," with  Katharine  Hepburn  and 
Robert  Taylor.  Included  were  "Lady  in 
the  Lake,"  with  Robert  Montgomery,  "Dav- 
id and  Bathsheba,"  and  the  last  was  "En- 
chantment," with  David  Niven  and  Tere- 
sa Wright.  She  saw  two  of  her  old  pic- 
tures re-run  on  television  in  one  day  last 
summer — and  for  weeks  afterward,  people 
stopped  her  on  the  street  to  talk  about 
Jayne  Meadows,  the  movie  actress,  instead 
of  Jayne  Meadows,  the  TV  star,  and  she 
was  thrilled  at  the  recognition.  The  Hol- 
lywood parts  had  been  dramatic  ones  and 
her  personal  success  in  them  was  attested 
by  the  reviews,  but  she  was  unhappy  and 
lacking  in  self-confidence  during  this  pe- 
riod of  her  life. 

All  sorts  of  stage  offers  have  been  com- 
ing her  way  recently,  based  on  all  this 
stage,  movie,  and  a  varied  radio  and  tele- 
vision background.  Last  spring,  she  did 
the  kind  of  dramatic  role  she  likes,  por- 
traying the  editor  of  a  woman's  magazine 
in  the  Studio  One  production,  "The  Drop 
of  a  Hat."  Guest-starring  with  Red  Skel- 
ton  was  a  big  success,  and  she  will  prob- 
ably do  more  of  that.  Nothing  that  takes 
her  away  for  more  than  a  few  days  from 
Steve    and   the   baby   will    be    considered. 


"Steve  and  I  have  talked  this  all  over," 
she  says.  "Perhaps  a  very  little  baby 
can  spare  its  mother  a  short  time,  if  left 
in  competent  hands.  But  we  talk  and  talk 
about  how  everything  can  be  arranged  so 
our  child  will  see  us  all  the  time  and  feel 
our  love  every  moment." 

There  is  a  filmed  situation  comedy  in  the 
offing,  but  that  will  be  a  reality  only  if  it 
can  be  made  in  New  York  The  recordings 
she  did  with  her  sister,  Audrey  Meadows — 
their  biggest  success,  "Dungaree  Dan,"  for 
which  Steve  wrote  the  lyrics — have  led  to 
others.  Steve  and  she  d'd  the  talking  rec- 
ord "What  Is  a  Husband?"  and  its  flipover, 
"What  Is  a  Wife?"  And,  recently,  she 
recorded  her  first  vocal  solo,  out  this  fall 
and  expected  to  be  pretty  sensational.  ("If 
it  is,  it  will  be  because  Steve  gave  me 
confidence  I  would  never  have  had  with- 
out him.") 

Jayne  talks  about  her  records  as  if  they 
belonged  to  someone  else,  objectively, 
slightly  amused  at  the  way  the  whole  thing 
began.  "Audrey  was  the  one  who  always 
had  the  singing  lessons.  She  studied  with 
good  teachers,  at  the  Juilliard  School  and 
elsewhere.  I  just  sang.  The  first  time  we 
were  to  do  a  recording  audition,  we  didn't 
even  know  what  to  choose.  We  asked  Dad- 
dy (the  Reverend  Francis  Cotter,  former 
missionary  to  China,  where  both  Jayne 
and,  Audrey  were  born)  to  translate  a 
song  into  Chinese  for  us." 

If  you  can  imagine  the  effect  of  the 
Meadows  girls  getting  up  and  rendering 
"Santa  Claus  Is  Coming  to  Town"  in  Chi- 
nese, you  get  a  little  idea  of  the  commotion 
their  first  audition  caused.  Nobody  un- 
derstood a  word  of  it,  or  could  quite  figure 
out  the  why  and  wherefore,  but  the  sheer 
novelty  knocked  them  flat,  and  the  girls 
got  their  first  recording  date. 

Jayne  had  to  stand  about  two  feet  behind 
Audrey  because  her  voice  came  out  so 
strongly,  a  completely  unexpected  devel- 
opment so  far  as  she  was  concerned.  "She 
sings  melody  like  harmony,"  someone  re- 
marked, a  good  description.  And,  last  win- 
ter, Jayne  attended  Stella  Adler's  dramatic 
classes,  her  first  formal  drama  instruction. 

Steve  got  her  started  on  a  professional 
writing  career.  She  always  had  ideas  for 
short  stories,  put  them  on  paper,  showed 
them  reluctantly  to  a  few  close  friends, 
was  encouraged  to  send  them  out  to  mag- 
azines— and  too  sensitive  to  risk  possible 
rejection  slips.  Steve  is  changing  that 
attitude.  Together,  they  wrote  the  first 
of  a  series  of  programs  called  The  Psy- 
chiatrist, two  of  which  Steve  used  on  a 
show  a  few  years  back  with  good  response 
from  viewers.  They  hope  to  do  the  whole 
series  one  day. 

Jayne  has  been  doing  a  few  guest  col- 
umns for  newspaper  friends — for  Nick 
Kenny,  for  Faye  Emerson  when  she  was 
on  vacation,  and  for  Bill  Ewald  of  United 
Press.  She  is  hard  at  work  now  on  an 
article  about  Steve,  has  gone  back  to  work 
on  a  book  she  once  started  called  "Audrey 
and  Me."  The  trouble  with  the  latter  is 
that  it  is  meant  to  be  serious — -but,  as 
Jayne  describes  it,  "there  are  so  many 
heartaches  in  it  that  it  comes  out  funny." 
Somehow,  everything  that  has  ever  hap- 
pened to  Audrey  and  Jayne  Meadows,  and 
especially  to  Jayne— no  matter  how  difficult 
or  even  tragic  at  the  time — turns  out  to  be 
funny  when  she  tells  about  it  later. 

This  summer,  she  went  back  to  painting, 
one  form  of  artistic  expression  she  has  al- 
ways loved,  along  with  interior  decoration. 
Early  in  the  season,  she  began  to  plan  how 
she  could  bring  the  boys  into  her  magic 
world  of  color  and  line  and  mass,  by  plan- 
ning "group"  exhibitions,  marking  progress 
and  making  sales  to  encourage  them.  Prices 
from  about  fifty  cents  to  a  dollar  top. 


Jayne  is  a  born  teacher — she  started  out 
to  teach  dancing  and  formed  a  school  in 
Connecticut  with  one  of  her  brothers  when 
she  was  still  in  her  teens,  has  assisted  in  a 
progressive  school  for  small  children,  been 
a  camp  counselor  and  swimming  instructor, 
adores  all  kinds  of  kids  of  all  ages,  thinks 
that  love  for  children  was  one  of  the  things 
that  helped  Steve  and  her  get  along  so  well 
from  the  first.  She  adores  his  children,  as 
he  does.  When  she  did  a  summer  stock 
tour  as  the  star  of  "Tea  and  Sympathy," 
during  a  time  when  the  boys  were  visiting 
in  the  East,  she  took  them  along  as  much 
as  possible.  "They  didn't  understand  the 
play  at  all,  of  course,  but  they  loved  the 
sets  and  thought  it  was  the  greatest  fun." 

The  boys  have  been  eager  for  a  small 
"Jaynie,"  as  they  call  their  father's  wife. 
Jayne  has  been  partial  to  having  a  little 
boy  "just  like  Steve,"  a  boy  they  could 
name  William  (for  Steve's  father)  and 
Christopher  (because  it  sounds  like  a  writ- 
er's name,  Jayne  thinks,  and  writing  was 
really  Steve's  first  love). 

oteve,  because  of  the  three  sons,  has 
looked  forward  to  a  daughter,  to  be  named 
Barbara.  There  is  a  story  attached  to  this 
name.  When  he  was  still  quite  young,  his 
mother  bought  a  framed  picture  at  auction, 
because  she  wanted  the  little  frame  for  a 
picture  of  his.  She  noticed  that  the  little 
girl  in  the  frame,  in  old-fashioned  dress, 
bore  a  striking  resemblance  to  Steve  and 
thought  how  someday  his  own  little  daugh- 
ter might  look  like  that.  Removing  the 
little  girl  from  the  frame  later,  she  found 
the  name  "Barbara  Allen"  on  the  back. 

This  coincidence  always  impressed  Steve, 
as  it  did  Jayne  when  she  heard  it  a  long 
time  later,  so  the  name  Barbara  seemed 
foreordained  for  a  daughter. 

Both  subscribe  to  the  notion  that  chil- 
dren should  be  both  seen  and  heard — with- 
in reason.  When  the  boys  are  with  them, 
Jayne  makes  it  clear  that  invitations  which 
don't  include  the  boys  must  be  put  off  until 
another  time.  They  take  the  boys  to 
lunches  and  dinners  to  meet  their  friends, 
sometimes  even  to  their  broadcasts.  Steve 
has  had  them  on  the  show,  buys  little  jokes 
from  them,  makes  them  a  part  of  every- 
thing for  which  thev   are   old   enough. 

Making  every  child  as  self-sufficient  as 
possible  is  Jayne's  idea.  "Steve  is  literally 
the  only  man  I  ever  knew  who  couldn't 
boil  an  egg.  He's  helpless  in  a  kitchen. 
We  are  teaching  the  boys  about  cooking 
and  cleaning  up.  When  they  were  smaller, 
I  started  with  the  two  older  boys  during 
a  visit  with  us  and,  even  though  it  took 
twice  as  long  to  assemble  a  meal  and  they 
were  underfoot  every  minute,  and  trying 
so  terribly  hard  to  help,  they  had  so  much 
fun.  Steve  had  so  many  doting  relatives 
when  he  was  small  that  there  were  a  few 
things  he  never  learned  to  do  for  himself." 

The  new  little  child  will  have  the  benefit 
of  all  the  things  they  have  learned  from 
the  boys  and  from  their  own  memories  of 
childhood.  Jayne  remembers  herself  as  a 
super-sensitive  and  introverted  girl,  al- 
though that  is  hard  to  believe  now  of  this 
self-assured  and  poised  woman.  During 
the  Hollywood  phase  of  her  life,  in  partic- 
ular, when  she  made  an  unhappy  mar- 
riage— and  later  in  New  York,  during  the 
years,  before  she  met  Steve — she  leaned 
heavily    on    psychiatry   for   help. 

"I  had  no  self-confidence,  no  belief  in  my 
own  powers,"  she  says.  "Psychiatry  taught 
me,  as  it  has  many  others,  to  accept  my- 
self. I  tell  Steve  that  I  am  glad  I  had 
problems  in  my  life,  glad  for  the  years 
when  I  tried  to  shut  myself  up  in  a  shell, 
when  I  threw  away  my  successes  in  mo- 
tion pictures  because  I  never  thought  I  did 
well    enough,    wasn't    beautiful     enough, 


wasn't  happy  enough.  Every  experience 
I  have  gone  through  that  has  been  painful 
has  made  me  not  only  stronger  but  more 
compassionate.  But  I  don't  want  any 
daughter  of  mine  to  go  through  as  much  as 
I  did.  We  want  to  tell  our  little  girl,  when- 
ever we  may  be  blessed  with  one,  how 
much  she  means  to  us,  how  lovely  she  is. 
To  build  up  her  self-confidence  and  her 
belief  in  herself.  This  is  what  Steve  is  do- 
ing with  his  sons." 

I.  he  fifth  anniversary  of  I've  Got  A  Secret 
was  also  the  fifth  anniversary  of  the  night 
Jayne  and  Steve  met,  although  they 
weren't  married  until  two  years  later,  on 
July  31,  1954.  Audrey  had  asked  Jayne  to 
go  with  her  and  a  few  friends  for  a  sand- 
wich after  the  show.  Jayne  was  tired  and 
wanted  to  go  home  but  reluctantly  went 
along.  Steve  and  a  few  others  joined  them 
at  the  table.  "He  hardly  said  a  word  the 
whole  time,  but  when  they  all  decided  to 
go  on  to  another  little  place  they  had 
heard  about,  he  asked  Audrey  to  bring  me 
along.  And,  when  we  got  in  his  car,  he 
insisted  that  I  sit  up  front  with  him.  Then 
I  didn't  see  him  for  two  weeks,  because  his 
boys  came  next  day  and  he  was  devoting 
himself  to  them. 

"We  grew  together  in  what  I  like  to 
think  of  as  a  mutually  helpful  way.  Steve 
introduced  me  to  what  I  call  his  'vaude- 
ville world,'  the  world  in  which  he  grew 
up  with  his  vaudevillian  parents,  Belle 
Montrose  and  Billy  Allen.  His  world  of 
jazz  and  all  the  modern  musical  tempos. 
I  had  never  bought  anything  but  a  classical 
record  in  my  life.  Audrey  and  I  went  to 
symphony  concerts  and  the  Metropolitan 
Opera.  We  knew  Gilbert  and  Sullivan, 
hymns,  folk  songs,  but  I  didn't  know  one 
jazz  record  well  enough  to  hum  it. 

"I  think  I  helped  boost  Steve's  self-con- 
fidence, which  was  at  a  lower  point  than 
his  talents  should  have  allowed,  when  I 
first  met  him.  He  had  been  extremely 
successful  on  the  West  Coast  but  was  still 
finding  his  way  in  the  East,  trying  to  work 
out  some  of  his  own  ideas,  which  he  has 
since  done  with  such  success.  He  ate  ir- 
regularly and  erratically.  One  day,  when 
I  first  knew  him,  he  came  to  dinner  with- 
out having  had  a  mouthful  of  food  all  day, 
and  I  had  to  get  him  some  tomato  juice  in 
a  hurry  because  he  began  to  feel  faint. 
After  that,  I  saw  that  he  got  proper  meals, 
at  least  when  he  was  around  me.  Now  he 
dislikes  going  out  to  restaurants,  comes 
home  to  a  meal  on  every  pretext,  thinks 
there  is  no  cooking  in  the  world  as  good  as 
is  done  at  our  house,  whether  I  do  it  or  our 
capable  maid  Mildred  is  presiding!  In 
spite  of  liking  home  cooking,  he  has  lost 
all  the  superfluous  weight  he  once  had, 
because  he  eats  so  sensibly. 

"When  I  first  met  Steve,  I  saw  what 
seemed  like  one  of  the  most  gentle  and 
sensitive  men  I  had  ever  known;  his  eyes 
were  so  soulful.  As  I  got  to  know  him 
better,  I  realized  that  he  wasn't  getting  his 
due  as  a  wonderful  human  being,  although 
he  was  beginning  to  as  an  artist.  Now  I 
know  that  both  things  are  happening. 

"When  he  is  with  the  children,  Steve  is 
another  child.  And  the  boys  are  so  like 
him.  Stevie  is  a  replica  of  Steve  in  looks, 
and  has  his  father's  scholastic  mind  and  his 
curiosity.  Brian  has  Steve's  poetic  side, 
his  artist's  approach  to  life,  and  his  own 
pixie  sense  of  humor.  The  little  one, 
David,  has  Steve's  original  and  logical 
mind.  He  makes  little  jokes  all  the  time 
just  as  Steve  does. 

"But  the  great  thing  about  my  husband 
is  that,  even  while  he  is  making  little  jokes 
and  seeing  the  world  in  all  its  humorous 
aspects,  he  is  really  such  a  serious  and 
adult  man.  It  will  be  so  wonderful  to 
watch  him  with  our  baby — his  pride,  his 
love,  his  tenderness — and  to  plan  with  him 
for  all  the  busy,  wonderful  years  ahead." 


OPPORTUNITIES 

for  EVERYBODY 

Pubflah«r'«  CU«ftifi«d  Department  (Trademark) 


For  odvrthing  rain,  write  to  William  R.  Stewart,  9  South  Clinton  Stmt,  Chicago  6  (Wom'i,  Nov.)  7 


OF  INTEREST  TO  WOMEN 


$500  FOR  YOUR  Child's  Picture  paid  by  advertisers.  Send 
one  small  photo  (All  apes).  Returned,  Print  child's  parents' 
name,  address  on  back.  Spotlite,  8346-P10  Beverly,  Holly- 

wood,  California. 

FREE— BIG  NEW  Wholesale  Catalog!  Up  to  50%  saving  for 
you.  family,  friends  on  nationally-known  gifts,  jewelry,  toys, 
appliances,  Christmas  cards  etc.  Also  make  money  selling 
part  time  I  Write:  Evergreen  Studios,  Box  846-AZ,  Chicago  42. 

t500  FOR  YOUR  child's  photo,  all  ages,  if  used  for  advertising, 
end  photo  for  approval.  Returned  two  weeks.  Advertisers, 

6000-YK  Sunset,  Hollywood  28,  California. 

HOMEWORKERS  WANTEDII  GUARANTEED  Payl  No 
Selling!  Everything  Supplied.  Enterprises,  Box  112-A,  Boston 

MAKE  MONEY  SEWING  At  Home,  part  or  full  time.  We 
instruct.  No  selling.  Free  details:  Jud-San,  Box  2107,  Dept. 

15-L,  Cleveland  8,  Ohio. 

DRESSES  24c;  SHOES  39c;  Men's  suits  $4.95;  trousers 
$1.20.  Better  used  clothing.  Free  Catalog.  Transworld  164-A 

Christopher.  Brooklyn  12,  N.Y. 

$200.  MONTHLY  POSSIBLE.  Sewing  Babywearl  No  house 
selling !  Send  stamped,  addressed  envelope.  Cuties,  Warsaw  1, 

Indiana. 

MAKE   MONEY   CLIPPING    Newspaper   Items  For   Pub- 
lishersl  Newscraft,  PW-983-E.  Main,  Columbus  5,  Ohio. 
$200.  MONTHLY  REPORTED,  preparing  envelopes.  Reveal- 
ing method,  25cl  Economy.  Box  768,  Largo  27,  Florida. 
WIVES— INCREASE  YOUR  family  income  sewing  babywear 

for  stores.  Write  Tiny-Tot,  Gallipofis  19,  Ohio. 

EARN  SPARETIME  CASH  Mailing  Advertising  Literature. 

Glenway,  Box  6568,  Cleveland  1,  Ohio. 

SEW  OUR  READY  cut  aprons  at  home,  spare  time.  Easy, 

profitable.  Hanky  Aprons,  Caldwell  3,  Ark. 

EARN  $50  FAST  sewing  precut  products.  Information  3c. 

Thompson's,  Loganville.  Wisconsin. 

LEARN  TELEPHONE  ADVERTISING.  Instructions  $1.00. 

Midwest,  851  E.  Eight  Mile,  Ferndale  20,  Michigan.    

MONEY,    TYPING— SEWING!    Details    Freel    Edwards, 

3912-W,  12th,  Pes  Moines  13,  Iowa. 

$40.00  WEEKLY  MAKING  Lovely  Roses.  Easy,  Write  Studio 

Company,  Greenville  10,  Pa. 

HELP  WANTED 

SEW  FOR  BIG  Money!  Women  18-60  wanted.  Earn  to  $100 
weekly.  Experience  unnecessary.  Free  placement  service.  Factory 
secrets,  methods.  Complete  information.  Write  Garment  Trades, 
Dept.  PW-107,  5880  Hollywood  Blvd.,  Hollywood  28,  Calif, 
BEAUTY  DEMONSTRATORS— TO  $5.00  hour  demonstrat- 
ing Famous  Hollywood  Cosmetics,  your  neighborhood.  For 
free  samples,  details,  write  Studio  Girl,  Dept.  16711C,  Glen- 

dale,  Calif. 

FASHION  DEMONSTRATORS— $20-$40  profit  evenings.  No 
delivering  or  collecting.  Beeline  Style  Shows  are  Party  Plan 
sensation  I  Samples  furnished  Free.  Beeline  Fashions,  Bensen- 

ville  56,  Illinois. 

HOMEWORKERS:  ASSEMBLE  HANDLACED  Precut  moc- 
casins and  handbags.  Good  earnings.  California  Handicrafts, 

Los  Angeles  46-B,  California. 

DRYCLEANS  CLOTHING  FOR  only  10c  per  garment.  Light- 
ning seller.  Saves  drycleaning  bills.  Samples  sent  on  trial. 

Kristee  140,  Akron,  Onio. 

EARN  EXTRA  MONEY  selling  Advertising  Book  Matches. 
Free  sample  kit  furnished.  Matchcorp,  Dept.  WP-43,  Chicago 

32,  Illinois. 

MAKE  MONEY,AT  Home  Assembling  Our  Items.  No  Tools, 
Selling  or  Experience  Necessary.  Lee  Mfg.  8507-W  3rd,  Los 

Angeles  48,  California. 

, IOANS  BY  MAIt 

PAY  YOUR  BILLS  Now.  Borrow  $100  to  $600  Cash  by  mail. 
Easy,  quick,  private.  Repay  in  small  monthly  installments 
over  20  months.  Your  payments  may  run  H  lass  than  now; 
have  money  left  over  to  spend.  Loan  Order  Blank  mailed  Free 
in  plain  envelope.  Advis*  amount  needed.  State  Finance  Co., 

323  Securities  Bldg.,  Dept.  T-69,  Omaha  2,  Nebr. 

BORROW  $50  to  $500.  Employed  men  and  women  over  25, 
eligible.  Confidential— no  co-signers— no  inquiries  of  employ- 
ers or  friends.  Repay  in  monthly  payments  to  fit  your  income. 
Supervised  by  State  of  Nebraska.  Loan  appliaction  sent  free 
in  plain  envelope.  Give  occupation.  American  Loan  Plan, 

City  National  Bldg.,  Dept.  WD-11,  Omaha,  Nebraska. 

BORROW  BY  MAIL.  $100-$600.  Anywhere.  Air  Mail  Service. 
Postal  Finance,  200  Keeline  Building,  Dept.  *653V,  Omaha 
2,  Nebraska. 


MONEY  MAKING  OPPORTUNITIES 

ANALYZE  HANDWRITING  FOR  Profit,  Pleasure,  self- 
understanding.  TV,  radio,  newspaper  columns,  teaching,  lec- 
turing, court  work.  Men  and  women,  spare  time  up  to  $50.00 
an  hour.  Amazing  opportunities.  Your  own  analysis  and  Trial 
Lesson  free.  No  children.  IGAS,  Inc.,  (19),  Springfield  4,  Mo. 
ADDITIONAL  INCOME,  BUILD  Home  Business,  Supplies 
$1.00,  Refundable,  Suco,  324  So.  3rd  Street,  Minneapolis 

15,  Minnesota. 

OPERATE  RESTAURANT  OR  diner.  Free  booklet  reveals 
plan.  Write  Restaurant  Arts,  511-MO,  Fremont,  Ohio. 
EARN  SPARETIME  CASH— Preparing,   Mailing  Catalogs. 
Everything  Furnished.  Eljay,  20  Cazenove,  Boston,  16-A,  Mass. 
MAKE  BIG  MONEY  invisibly  mending  damaged  garments  at 
home.  Details  Free.  Fabricon,  6240  Broadway,  Chicago  40. 
GUARANTEED  HOMEWORKI  IMMEDIATE  Commissions! 
Free  OutfitsI  Hirsch,  1301-12  Hoe,  New  York  City  59. 
$25  WEEKLY  POSSIBLE,  sparetime,  preparing  mailings  for 

advertisers.  Temple  Co.,  Muncie  2,  Indiana. 

MAKE  MONEY  PREPARING  envelopesi  Literature  explain- 

ing,  free.  Cove,  Box  768-E,  Largo,  Florida. 

MAKE  YOUR  TYPEWRITER   Earn   Money.   Send   $1.00. 

Hughes,  7004  Diversey,  Chicago  35. 

GOOD  PAY,  MAKING  Flowers.  Free  Sample.  Boycan  Indus- 

tries,  Sharon  44,  Penna. 

HOMEWORKERS  WANTED  PAINTING  Novelties.  No  Sell- 

ing.  N.  Roland,  Vincentown  1,  N.J. 

MAKE  EXTRA  MONEY  Sparetime.  Tom  Sales,  1305-0, 
N.  Western,  Chicago  22. . 

EDUCATIONAL  OPPORTUNITIES 

COMPLETE  YOUR  HIGH  School  at  home  in  spare  time 
with  60-year-old  school.  Texts  furnished.  No  classes.  Diploma. 
Information   booklet  free.   American   School,    Dept.    X874, 

Drexel  at  58th,  Chicago  37,  Illinois. 

HIGH  SCHOOL— No  classes.  Study  at  home.  Spare  Time. 
Diploma  awarded.  Write  for  Free  Catalog  HCH-49,  Wayne 

School,  2527  Sheffield,  Chicago  14,  III. 

HIGH  SCHOOL  DIPLOMA  at  home.  Licensed  teachers. 
Approved  materials.  Southern  States  Academy,  Station  E-1. 

Atlanta,  Georgia. 

LEARN  WHILE  ASLEEPI  Detailsfree.  Research  Association 

Box  610-WP,  Omaha. 

OLD  COINS  *  MONEY  WANTED 

WE  PURCHASE  INDIANHEAD  pennies.  Complete  allcoin 
catalogue  25c.  Magnacoins,  Box  61-RT,  Whitestone  57,  N.Y. 
WE  BUY  COINS.  Free  information.  Coins.  Box  28,  Viroqua 

Wisconsin. 

WE  BUY  ALL  rare  American  coins.  Complete  catalogue  25c. 

Fairview,  Box  1116-OE,  New  York  City  8. 

FOREIGN  *  U.S.A.  JOB  LISTINGS 

HIGH  PAYING  JOBS:  All  types.  Foreign,  USA.  Chance  to 
travel.  Fare  Paid.  Application  forms.  Free  information.  Write 
Dept.  102,  National  Employment  Information,  1020  Broad, 

Newark,  New  Jersey. 

AMERICAN,  OVERSEAS  JOBS,  high  pay.  Men,  Women, 
Transportation  Paid,  Free  Information,  Write  Transworld, 

200-W  West  34,  New  York  1,  N.Y. 

AGENTS  WANTED 

NEGRO  WOMEN  WRITE  for  samples,  information  about 
making  $65  regularly,  spare  time,  selling  Cosmetics.  Lucky 

Heart,  Dept.  20-L,  Memphis,  Tennessee. 

60%  PROFI T  COSM  ET I CS  $25  day  up.  H ire  others.  Samples, 
details.  Studio  Girl-Hollywood,  Glendale,  Calif.,  Dept.  1 671 1 H . 

HOME  SEWERS  OPPORTUNITIES 

SEW  BEAUTIFUL  FELT  Novelties.  Write  enclosing  stamp  for 
working  details.  Liebig  Industries,  Beaver  Dam  5,  Wisconsin. 

STAMP  COLLECTING 

TERRIFIC  STAMP  BARGAIN!  Israel— Iceland— Vatican  As- 
sortment—Plus Exotic  Triangle  Set— Also  Fabulous  British 
Colonial  Accumulation— Plus  Large  Stamp  Book— All  Four 
Offers  Free— Send  10c  To  Cover  Postage.  Empire  Stamp 
Corporation,  Dept.  PC,  Toronto,  Canada. 

MISCELLANEOUS 

WRITE  VERSE.  PUBLICATION  guaranteed  those  who  qual- 
ify. Write  immediately.  H.C.S.,  Inc.,  2307  National  Station, 
Springfield,  Missouri. 


SONGWRITERS! 

PROTECT  YOUR  IDEAS!    HOLD   ALL   SONGS,   POEMSI 

Write  for   safe,   correct   proceduret 

SONG  SERVICE 

Dept.  T.V.  333  W.  56th  St.,  New  York  19,  N.  Y. 

Ill  Send  You  These  Products 


FREE 

TRIAL 


And  Show  You  How  to 
Make  Money,  in  Full  or 
Spare  Time  without 
Experience  and  with- 
out Putting  Up  a  Penny 

Just  send  me  your  name  and  I'll  rush  you  PREPAID 
these  full-size  packages  of  famous  Blair  Home 
Products:  Cosmetics,  Flavorings,  Foods,  etc.  Make 
money  introducing  to  friends,  neighbors.  Special  bar- 
gains, valuable  premiums,  spectacular  offers  put  you 
into  a  successful  business  of  your  own  overnight.  You 
don't  need  experience,  and  I  give  you  credit.  Assort- 
ment of  full-size  products  for  FREE  TRIAL  ready! 
Send  no  money.  Write  today. 

BLAIR,  Dept.  188AII,  Lynchburg,  Virginia 


FOR 

CHRISTMAS  GIFT  IDEAS 

SEE  PAGE  81 

OH,  MY 
ACHING  BACK 

Now !  You  can  get  the  fast  relief  you  need  from 
nagging  backache,  headache  and  muscular  aches 
and  pains  that  often  cause  restless  nights  and  mis- 
erable tired-out  feelings.  When  these  discomforts 
come  on  with  over-exertion  or  stress  and  strain— 
you  want  relief— want  it  fast !  Another  disturbance 
may  be  mild  bladder  irritation  following  wrong 
food  and  drink— often  setting  up  a  restless  un- 
comfortable feeling. 

For  quick  relief  get  Doan's  Pills.  They  work  fast 
in  3  separate  ways :  1.  by  speedy  pain-relieving  ac- 
tion to  ease  torment  of  nagging  backache,  head- 
aches, muscular  aches  and  pains.  2.  by  their  sooth- 
ing effect  on  bladder  irritation.  3.  by  their  mild 
diuretic  action  tending  to  increase  output  of  the  15 
miles  of  kidney  tubes. 

Find  out  how  quickly  this  3-way  medicine  goes  to 
work.  Enjoy  a  good  night's  sleep  and  the  same  happy 
relief  millions  have  for  over  60  years.  Ask  for  new, 
large  size  and  save  money.  Get  Doan's  Pills  today  ! 


T 

V 
R 

67 


True  Story  of  a  Happy  Woman 


(Continued  from  page  38) 
for  viewers  the  fact  that  they  are  to  see 
true  experiences  of  real  people."  At  the 
beginning  and  close  of  the  show,  Kathi 
interviews  the  people  involved  and  then 
concludes  with  a  capsule  moral.  She 
writes  all  of  this  herself  and  does  so  with 
great  thoughtfulness,  for  behind  TV's  most 
beautiful  eyes  is  a  keen  brain. 

Kathi  is  a  high-spirited  beauty,  five- 
feet-five,  with  dark  brown  hair,  fair  com- 
plexion and  deep  blue  eyes.  Her  TV  ca- 
reer began  in  1946.  Most  of  her  shows  have 
identified  her  as  a  woman's  woman,  but 
she  is  a  man's  woman,  too.  The  man  in 
question  is  her  husband  Wilbur  Stark,  co- 
producer  with  Jerry  Layton  of  many  radio 
and  TV  shows,  including  True  Story, 
Rocky  King,  Detective,  Humphrey  Flack, 
Ladies'  Choice,  Mr.  Feathers,  Scattergood 
Baines,  Escape  With  Me,  and  Hollywood 
Love  Story.  Wilbur  Stark  has  been  a  pro- 
ducer for  eleven  years.  He  has  been 
married  to  Kathi  for  thirteen. 

Wilbur  says  of  Kathi,  "She  is  very  adapt- 
able. When  we  were  first  married,  I  was 
making  a  lot  of  money  and  we  could  do 
whatever  we  pleased.  It  wasn't  hard  to 
adapt  to  that  situation.  But,  when  I 
went  into  business  for  myself,  we  had  to 
give  up  almost  everything.  She  had  just 
as  much  fun  on  our  lessened  income. 
And  she's  both  a  friend  and  a  wife — and 
sincere  and  loyal,  too." 

Kathi  is  no  sugar-coated  beauty.  For 
all  her  vivacity  and  femininity,  she  is  a 
woman  of  conviction.  For  this  reason, 
Producer  Wilbur  Stark  hired  Mrs.  Wilbur 
Stark  as  hostess  of  True  Story.  "When  we 
do  a  True  Story  program,"  he  explains, 
"we  try  to  bring  to  viewers  the  greatest 
sense  of  reality.  It  is  necessary,  of  course, 
to  use  professional  actors  to  play  the  parts, 
and  we  use  the  best — people  like  Jerome 
Cowan,  Connie  Ford,  Meg  Mundy,  Jan 
Miner,  Biff  McGuire  and  Staats  Cotsworth. 
Because  they  are  good,  they  are  also  on 
many  of  the  big  night-time  dramatic  shows 
on  TV.  Therefore,  True  Story  viewers 
might  tend  to  recognize  them  as  actors 
rather  than  real  people.  Well,  the  feeling 
of  true  reality,  rather  than  stage  reality,  is 
what  the  program  must  have.  That's  where 
Kathi  comes  in.  A  glamorous  actress 
couldn't  establish  this  bridge  of  reality 
with  the  audience,  but  Kathi  isn't  glam- 
orous and  she  couldn't  act  if  she  had  to. 
Everything  she  says  on  the  show  re- 
flects her  personality  and  beliefs.  If  she 
can't  believe  it,  she  can't  say  it.  That's  the 
way  she  is.  That's  why  she  writes  her 
own  lines.  And  that's  why  she  convinc- 
ingly moves  the  audience  to  a  genuine 
belief  in  the  validity  of  the  material  on  the 
show." 

TV's  best  writers  are  used  to  adapt 
True  Story  material  to  television,  but 
Kathi  always  writes  her  own  commentary 
material.  "I  draw  on  my  experience  and 
feelings,"  she  explains.  "I  think  I  use  the 
insight  of  a  mother  and  wife.  For  ex- 
ample, there  was. a  true  story  of  a  widow 
and  her  son  dramatized  on  one  show. 
The  widow  married  an  athletic  coach.  Fric- 
tion developed  between  the  new  stepfather 
and  the  son.  Shortly  thereafter,  the  field 
house  storing  athletic  equipment  burned 
down.  The  cause  of  the  fire  was  unde- 
termined. The  anxious  parents  suspected 
the  son  of  having  set  the  fire  as  a  spiteful 
act.  They  later  learned  that,  on  the  after- 
noon of  the  fire,  the  boy  had  been  taking 
an  examination  for  a  college  scholarship. 
In  the  interview  with  the  mother  after 
the  show,  I  was  to  say  'Aren't  you  proud 

J    of    your    son?'    And    the    mother    was    to 

„     answer,    'Yes — for,    besides    winning    the 
scholarship,   he  is  president   of   his   class, 

„„  which    shows   he   is   as   popular   as   he    is 

68 


bright.'  Well,  I  thought  that  over  and 
didn't  agree  with  the  implications.  I 
couldn't  argue  with  the  facts,  but  it 
seemed  wrong  to  give  the  impression  a 
child  has  to  be  bright  and  popular  to  be 
loved  and  admired  by  his  parents.  What 
I  wanted  to  say — and  did  say — was  that 
parental  love  and  trust  should  be  the 
birthright  of  every  child,  regardless  of  his 
capabilities." 

It  should  come  as  no  surprise  at  this  point 
that  Kathi  has  made  her  way,  at  times,  by 
brains  alone.  Before  she  got  into  TV,  she 
was  an  account  executive  in  an  advertis- 
ing agency,  a  copywriter,  a  secretary,  a 
student  dietitian.  But  'way  before  that, 
she  was  just  a  pretty  little  girl  who  was 
always  being  cast  as  an  angel  in  school 
pageants. 

Kathi,  born  in  Newark,  Ohio,  was  the 
youngest  of  nine  children.  "It  was  fun 
being  the  last,"  she  recalls.  "When  I  was 
a  child,  one  brother  was  at  Ohio  State 
University,  another  was  getting  a  taste 
of  show  business.  And  my  sisters  were 
old  enough  to  spoil  me.  Mother  therefore 
went  really  maternal  with  me.  I  got  all  the 
don'ts  from  A  to  Z — but  I  also  was  babied 
right  up  into  my  teens.  When  I  was 
fifteen,  my  mother  was  still  cutting  my 
meat  for  me.  I  remember  that  I  went  to 
New  York  to  visit  one  of  my  brothers.  He 
took  me  out  to  dinner  and  ordered  a  steak. 
The  waiter  served  me  and  I  just  sat  there. 
Finally,  I  realized  I'd  have  to  cut  it  my- 
self!    What  a  mess  I  made  of  it." 

On  the  other  hand,  Kathi's  mother  didn't 
put  up  with  vanity.  Even  as  a  child, 
Kathi's  eyes  were  remarkably  beautiful 
— but  Kathi  wasn't  allowed  to  know  it. 
As  she  recalls,  "I'd  come  home  and  tell 
Mother  that  Mrs.  So-and-so  told  me  I 
had  such  beautiful  blue  eyes.  Mother 
would  merely  ask,  'And  what  color  were 
her  eyes?'  " 

But,  mostly,  Kathi  is  remembered  for 
her  supercharged  motor.  She  never 
walked.  She  was  either  running  or 
jumping.  She  barely  touched  a  stairstep 
when  she  came  downstairs.  And  she  flew 
off  the  porch,  never  using  the  steps.  She 
was  always  being  sent  on  errands  by  her 
brothers  and  sisters — to  a  bedroom  for 
bobby  pins  or  to  a  store  with  a  nickel  to 
buy  a  bar  of  candy.  But,  as  much  as  she 
was  "used,"  she  was  also  loved.  At  the 
age  of  twelve,  she  won  a  popularity  con- 
test held  by  a  drug  store — because  her 
older  sisters  went  out  and  solicited  votes 
for  her. 

Kathi  spent  one  year  as  an  undergradu- 
ate at  the  University  of  Chicago.    She  was 


jind  the  strength 
for  your  life . . . 


Religion  In  American  Life  Program 


WORSHIP  TOGETHER  THIS  WEEK 


studying  dietetics  and  working  part-time 
as  a  beanpot  demonstrator  at  Marshall 
Field's  when  she  was  rescued  by  Bob 
Elson,  one  of  Chicago's  ace  radio  men 
Elson  met  Kathi  when  he  happened  to 
use  the  members  of  one  of  her  university 
classes  on  a  quiz  show.  He  proved  to  be 
remarkably  intuitive  in  recognizing  Kathi's 
natural  talent  for  communication.  "He  told 
me  I  should  become  a  copywriter.  I  was 
so  naive,  I  thought  he  was  talking  of  the 
kind  of  copyrighting  they  do  at  the  patent 
office!  But  he  patiently  explained  how 
commercials  for  radio  were  written.  I 
was  awed,  and  it  all  sounded  better  than 
demonstrating  food." 

She  hoped  to  get  a  foothold  in  advertis- 
ing as  a  secretary,  so  she  took  a  course  in 
speedwriting  and  rented  a  typewriter  to 
practice  her  typing.  Finally,  she  went  to 
the  Grant  Advertising  Agency,  where  an 
account  executive  was  looking  for  a  new 
secretary.  "He  asked  me  if  I  knew  what 
an  atom-smasher  was,  and  I  told  him. 
Then  he  asked  me  to  define  and  spell 
'atom,'  which  I  did.  He  was  amazed.  It 
seemed  that  the  girls  who  had  been  work- 
ing for  him  had  spelled  it  'Adam.' " 

Kathi  became  a  copywriter  by  not  mind- 
ing her  own  business.  "I  was  sitting  in 
on  a  conference  when  they  discussed  a 
new  advertising  campaign.  I  went  home 
and  wrote  up  a  few  ideas  of  my  own  and 
brought  them  in,  the  next  morning.  Over- 
night, I  became  a  copywriter,  and  I  was 
sent  to  the  New  York  office  in  January 
of  1942." 

Her  first  year  in  New  York,  she  won 
a  signal  honor  when  she  received  the 
Tide  magazine  award  for  one  of  her  cam- 
paigns. She  became  an  assistant  account 
executive  and  then  an  account  executive. 
She  would  probably  have  stayed  in  ad- 
vertising and  become  a  vice-president — 
and,  likely,  president — if  a  couple  of 
things  hadn't  happened  to  her.  One  of 
these  was  TV,  and  the  other  was  Wilbur 
Stark.     Wilbur  came  first. 

They  first  met  in  June  of  1942.  He  was 
a  time  salesman  for  Station  WMCA,  New 
York,  and  had  been  in  Kathi's  office  on 
business.  A  few  days  later,  they  met 
under  less  formal  circumstances.  "We 
lived  within  a  block  of  one  another  but 
didn't  know  it,"  Kathi  says.  "I  was  com- 
ing out  of  a  grocery  store,  loaded  with 
stuff.  Just  as  I  passed  him  and  said  hello 
and  smiled,  a  roll  of  toilet  paper  popped 
out  of  one  bag  and  went  rolling  into  the 
street.  Well,  he  retrieved  it,  and  then  of- 
fered to  help  carry  some  of  the  packages 
home.  Somehow  he  made  the  comment 
that  it  was  a  lot  of  food  for  one  little 
girl,  and  I  invited  him  to  come  to  dinner 
and  share  it  with  me.  Instead,  he  took  me 
out.  I  remember  he  ordered  lobster.  I'd 
never  eaten  lobster  and  he  had  to  crack 
mine  for  me  and  get  the  meat  out.  I  thought 
he  was  just  magnificent." 

It  was  two  years  before  they  married. 
"It  was  an  interesting  relationship,"  Kathi 
recalls.  "I  wanted  to  be  a  career  girl  only 
— so  I  thought.  He  wanted  to  be  a  suc- 
cessful bachelor.  We  had  great  times  to- 
gether but,  supposedly,  we  weren't  seri- 
ous. Then  I  went  home  on  vacation  and 
an  old  boyfriend  proposed  to  me.  I  came 
back  to  New  York  and  told  'Sweetie'  about 
it  and  that  I  might  get  married.  He  said, 
'That's  wonderful,'  and  that  made  me 
furious!  But,  in  the  end,  he  came  to  his 
senses  and  proposed." 

They  were  married  June  15,  1944,  in 
the  Episcopal  Chapel  in  Elmsford,  New 
York,  and  then  moved  into  Kathi's  apart- 
ment, because  it  was  more  comfortable 
than  Wilbur's.  Kathi  was  still  working 
at  the  agency.  She  had  never  worked 
as    a   performer.     Wilbur   had   radio    and 


some  stage  experience.  Out  of  high 
school  during  the  Depression,  he  had 
done  a  variety  of  things — selling,  truck- 
ing, boxing,  "pro"  ball  and  acting — until 
1936,  when  he  began  a  ten-year  hitch  at 
WMCA.  In  1945,  when  Kathi  created  a 
radio  show,  Teen  Canteen,  it  was  Wilbur 
who  went  on  the  air  as  emcee.  He  con- 
tinued on  the  TV  version.  But  on  Janu- 
ary 17,  1946,  their  first  child  was  born. 
Three  months  later,  to  the  day,  Kathi's  TV 
career  was  born. 

It  happened  that  Wilbur  had  to  be  out 
of  town,  and  he  asked  an  announcer  to 
do  the  TV  version  of  Teen  Canteen  during 
his  absence.  The  show  was  informal,  re- 
quiring the  emcee  to  get  a  bunch  of  teen- 
agers to  relax  and  talk  and  play  a  couple 
of  games.  The  substitute  announcer  was 
too  stiff,  and  the  director  asked  Kathi  to 
get  the  kids  in  the  right  mood  before  the 
show.  "I  was  having  a  ball  with  them," 
she  recalls,  "and  the  director  asked  me  to 
do  the  show,  instead  of  the  announcer — 
which  was  all  right  with  him,  since  he 
wanted  to  get  out  of  it,  anyway." 

That  was  Kathi's  debut  in  TV.  Within  a 
year,  she  was  one  of  TV's  brightest  stars. 
From  1948  to  1953,  there  was  the  Du  Mont 
network's  Kathi  Norris  Show,  a  daily 
full-hour  for  women.  Concurrently,  she 
was  on  Leave  It  To  The  Girls  and  Spin 
The  Picture.  She  did  a  regular  commer- 
cial on  the  Godfrey  show.  On  radio,  she 
femceed  Anybody  Home,  for  NBC,  and 
Escape  With  Me,  for  ABC.  In  August  of 
1952,  she  retired  temporarily  to  have  an- 
other baby.  When  she  came  back  to 
work  in  1953,  it  was  with  a  different  kind 
of  job.  She  then  began  her  four-year  as- 
sociation with  General  Electric  as  their 
TV  representative.  This  came  to  an  end 
in  1956,  when  daughter  Kathleen  was 
born.  Then  Kathi  came  back  to  TV  as 
hostess  for  True  Story. 

"I  like  to  work,"  Kathi  says,  "and  I 
especially  like  working  with  Sweetie.  It's 
more  than  stimulating.  It's  the  necessary 
requisite  of  a  completely  companionable 
marriage.  If  Sweetie  were  a  chemist,  I'd 
be  knee-deep  in  test  tubes." 

Kathi  always  refers  to  Wilbur  as 
"Sweetie."  This  has  been  going  on  for 
so  long  that  some  people  don't  know  he 
has  any  other  name.  On  the  street, 
strangers  often  call  him  "Sweetie,"  since 
that  is  the  way  Kathi  refers  to  him  publicly 
on  TV.  Even  Pamela,  their  first  born, 
grew  confused  by  the  nickname.  "Poor 
Pam,"  says  Kathi.  "I  guess  she  was 
about  two  when  she  came  to  us  and  said, 
'You're  Mommie  and  he's  Sweetie,  but 
who's  my  daddy?' " 

Pam,  a  very  pretty  eleven-year-old, 
spent  much  of  her  first  five  years  in  TV 
studios  with  her  mother.  Kathi  says,  "If 
I  had  toys  to  demonstrate,  or  children's 
clothes  to  be  modeled,  I'd  let  Pam  do  it. 
Of  course,  not  exclusively.  Other  people 
who  worked  on  the  show  brought  their 
children  in,  and  sometimes  we'd  bring 
in  children  from  an  orphanage.  But  I 
did  have  Pam  with  me  a  lot,  just  watching, 
most  of  the  time.  I  remember  once  I 
was  doing  a  live  commercial,  for  dough- 
nuts, when  Pam  walked  right  onto  the 
set.  She  loved  doughnuts,  so  I  said,  'You 
can  have  one,  honey.'  She  took  a  dough- 
nut, looked  at  it  and  bit  into  it  and  then  I 
said,  'Do  you  like  it?'  and  she  said,  'No, 
it's  awful.'  Well,  she  had  picked  up 
one  with  cinnamon.  It  was  the  cinna- 
mon she  didn't  really  like.  But  I  had 
to  talk  my  way  out  of  that  one." 

Pam  is  her  mother's  best  critic.  "She 
knows  clothes,"  Kathi  says,  "and  will  re- 
mind me  that  a  dress  may  be  too  dark  for 
TV.  Or  say,  'Your  hair  looks  good  enough 
for  the  house  but  not  for  the  cameras.' " 
Kathi  continues,  "I  remember  one  day  I 
was  rehearsing  my  lines  and  Pam  said, 
Mother,  you're  selling  too  hard  when  you 


DOCTORS'  SCIENTIFIC  FORMULA 


STARVES  PIMPLES 

SKIN-COLORED . . .  hides  pimples  while  it  works 


clearasil  is  the  new-type  medication 
especially  for  pimples.  Clinical  tests  prove 
it  really  ivorks.  And  now  you  can  get 
clearasil  as  a  smooth,  soothing  Lotion  in 
handy  squeeze-bottle!  In  Tube  or  Lotion, 
clearasil  gives  you  the  medications  pre- 
scribed by  leading  skin  specialists. 

Why  Clearasil  works  fast:  1.  Penetrates 
.  .  .  'keratolytic'  action  dissolves  affected 
tissue,   encourages   growth   of  new   skin 
2.  Antiseptic  action  stops  growth  of  bac 
teria  that  can  cause  and  spread  pimples  .  . 
helps  prevent  further  outbreaks.  3.  Oil 
absorbing   action    'starves'   pimples    .    . 
dries  up  and  helps  remove  excess  oil  that 
'feeds'    pimples.    And   clearasil   loosens 


blackheads  so  they  'float'  out  with  washing. 

Proved  by  Skin  Specialists!  In  tests  on 
over  300  patients,  9  out  of  every  10  cases 
of  pimples  were  completely  cleared  up  or 
definitely  improved  while  using  clearasil 
(either  Lotion  or  Tube).  Long-lasting 
Lotion  squeeze-bottle  only 
$1.25  (no  fed.  tax)  or  Tube, 
69^5— 98^.  All  drug  counters. 
Money-back  guarantee. 


K  Good  Housekeeping  j 

Largest-Selling  Pimple  Medication  in  America 

(Including  Canada) 


PLAY 
RIGHT 
AWAY! 

ANY  INSTRUMENT 

— even  if  you  don't 
know  a  single  note  now! 

WOW  it's  EAST  to  learn  ANY  instrument.  No  boring 
1~  exercises.  Even  if  you  don't  know  a  single  note  now, 
we'll  have  you  playing  delightful  pieces  RIGHT  AWAY — 
right  from  your  FIRST  lesson!  And  properly.  BY  NOTE. 
Simple  as  A-B-C.  Make  amazing  progress.  No  special 
"talent"    needed.    Learn    at  home    in    spare  „^~*£^fe 

time,  without  a  teacher.  Low  costl  900.000  ^i^jgfflrl 
students  including  TV  Star  Lawrence  Welk.  lP^*^<w  j 
FREE  BOOK  tells  how  easily  you  can  fjsSSilM*8*/  . 
learn.  Just  send  this  ad,  with  your  name  |Ll  -ri^t  V- 
and  address  filled  In  below,  to:  U.S.  ■Lv,J»a|!'!^i 
SCHOOL  OF  MUSIC.  Studio  A20II,  ■k'  Jltfi  J 
Port  Washington,  N.Y.  (No  obligation,  no  salesman  will  call.) 
Name 


M 


OTHERS  miEND 


Fi 


THE 


e  soothing, 
refreshing  skin  con- 
ditioner that  pene- 
trates and  brings 
relief  to  numbing, 
tingling  muscles  in 
back  and  legs  .  .  . 
^Jgj^.  ends  the  dis- 
Ksr=?&\  comfort  of 
™232}}  tight,  dry 
skin. 

At  Drug  Stores  Everyichere. 

S.S.S.  COMPANY,  ATLANTA,  GA. 


T 
V 
R 

69 


New  Patterns 
for  You 


4592 — Tailored  sheath  is  a  becoming  fash- 
ion for  every  figure.  Easy  sewing  with  our 
Printed  Pattern.  Misses  Sizes  10-20.  Size 
16  takes  4%  yards  39-inch  fabric.  State 
size.  35# 


4626 — Doll  wardrobe  to  thrill  a  special 
little  girl  on  that  very  special  day  of 
Christmas.  Coat  and  beanie,  school  dress, 
sack  dress,  party  frock,  petticoat  and 
panties.  Printed  Pattern  for  dolls  14,  16, 
18,  20,  22  inches  tall.  35<- 


9187 — Lovely  princess  fashion  to  wear  as 
dress  or  jumper.  Neat  companion  blouse. 
Printed  Pattern  in  Half  Sizes  141/2-241/2. 
Size  161/2  dress  takes  3%  yards  39-inch 
fabric;    blouse    1%    yards.   Slate   size.    35<- 


2% 


'** 


4592 

SIZES 
10—20 


u 


m 


FOR  DOLL 
14"— 22" 


Ail 


9187 

SIZES 
14y2_24! 


I 


70 


Send  thirty-five  cents  (in  coin)  for  each  pattern  to:  TV  Radio  Mirror,  Pattern  Depart- 
ment, P.O.  Box  137,  Old  Chelsea  Station,  New  York  11,  New  York.  Add  five  cents  for 
each    pattern    for    first-class    mailing.    Be    sure    to    specify    pattern    number    and    size. 


should  just  be  talking.'  And,  when  Sweetie 
came  in,  he  listened  and  agreed  with  her." 

On  the  other  hand,  Bradley,  their  five- 
year-old,  hasn't  reached  the  critical  stage. 
He  is  rather  inclined  to  treat  his  parents 
as  if  they  were  walking  dictionaries,  and 
at  any  time  will  demand  the  definition  of 
three-  to  six-syllable  words.  He  is  too 
young  to  have  a  dictionary  in  his  room, 
but  the  room  itself  is  unusually  attractive. 
The  walls  are  covered  in  red-and-white 
stripes.  A  peak  in  the  ceiling  gives  the 
illusion  of  a  tent.    The  floors  are  red  vinyl. 

"Some  of  the  house  is  gay  and  nice,  but 
I  wouldn't  want  to  take  on  an  old  place 
again,"  Kathi  says.  "They  just  made  them 
too  big.  Why,  there  are  six  rooms  on  the 
first  floor  and  that  includes  the  laundry, 
Sweetie's  workshop,  the  recreation  room, 
et  cetera.  Look  at  the  cracks  in  my  fin- 
gers— I  just  got  through  cleaning  there. 
It's  ridiculous,  you  know.  Sure,  I've  got 
help  but  it  would  require  a  regiment.  I've 
got,  all  told,  five  bathrooms  and  two  pow- 
der rooms  and  who  needs  them?  But,  if 
you've  got  them,  you  keep  them  clean." 

Kathi  doesn't  pretend  to  get  any  pleas- 
ure out  of  housecleaning,  but  she  does 
take  a  very  personal  interest  in  the  kitch- 
en and  in  nutrition.  It  started  when  she 
decided  to  have  her  third  child,  Kathleen, 
by  natural  childbirth.  She  went  to  the 
Manhattan  Maternity  Center  to  take  the 
course  for  expectant  mothers  and  was  then 
introduced  to  several  books  on  nutrition. 
She  became  an  enthusiast  for  natural 
foods.  This  accounts  for  the  rather  brac- 
ing formula  she  feeds  the  baby,  certified 
raw  milk  mixed  with  blackstrap  molasses 
and  brewer's  yeast. 

The  whole  family  participates  in  the 
food  planning.  Breakfast  for  the  family 
might  be  wheat  germ  cooked  in  milk  with 
blackstrap  molasses  and  brown  sugar.  Or 
it  might  be  yogurt  and  pot  cheese  with 
sesame  seeds  and  bee  jelly.  The  children's 
peanut  butter  is  fortified  with  vitamins. 
Kathi  is  not  without  humor  in  discussing 
nutrition.  "I  stocked  in  some  cabbage  juice 
for  a  brother  who  had  an  ulcer,"  she 
notes,  "but  he  preferred  an  operation." 

Kathi  tries  to  practice  what  she  preach- 
es. For  years,  as  a  TV  personality,  she 
had  emphasized  woman's  place  in  the 
community,  in  volunteer  jobs  outside  her 
home.  Kathi,  herself,  works  closely  with 
the  Adoption  Service  of  Westchester  and 
makes  frequent  public  speeches  for  them. 
She  is  very  active  in  church  programs.  For 
years,  she  has  been  a  Sunday  school 
teacher  at  the  Dutch  Reformed  Church  in 
Bronxville.  This  fall  she  became  co-super- 
intendent. "For  us,"  she  says,  "religion  is 
a  cooperative  endeavor.  We  take  the  chil- 
dren to  Sunday  school  with  us,  where 
other  parents  just  drop  off  the  young- 
sters." Kathi  likes  a  good  sermon  and  was 
a  frequent  attendant  at  the  Billy  Graham 
meetings  in  Manhattan  this  past  summer. 

"I  like  what  Billy  has  to  say  about  the 
family,"  she  observes.  "I  like  what  he  has 
to  say  about  the  husband-wife  relation- 
ship. Well,  in  our  home,  although  Sweetie 
is  a  real  homebody  and  very  relaxed,  he 
is  still  the  master.  I'd  be  inclined  to  say 
that  he  has  the  last  word,  but  neither  of  us 
is  really  a  boss  of  the  other:  As  Billy  Gra- 
ham points  out,  when  God  created  woman, 
it  was  not  from  Adam's  head  or  foot — but 
his  side.  It  means  that  husband  and  wife 
are  supposed  to  work  side  by  side.  For 
example,  I  know  that  it's  always  been  in- 
teresting to  watch  actors  work  together 
when  they  are  husband  and  wife.  On 
True  Story,  we've  had  Ann  and  John  Sey- 
mour, Loretta  Daye  and  Lin  McCarthy, 
June  Dayton  and  Dean  Harens.  I  have 
the  feeling  that  they  particularly  enjoy 
working  together." 

This  comment  about  other  couples  well 
sums  up  the  happy  cooperative  team  of 
Kathi  Norris  and  Wilbur  Stark  themselves, 


. 


WHAT'S  NEW— WEST 

(Continued  from  page  15) 

Bing  Crosby  called  Nat  "King" 
Cole  and  told  him  that  if  he  was  going 
to  be  on  in  the  fall  season,  he  wanted 
to  be  on  his  show  and  would  work  for 
scale.  With  Nat's  show  moved  into 
the  Panic  spot,  you  can  look  for  Bing 
in  the  fall. 

John  Barrymore,  Jr.,  with  a  profile 
as  attractive  as  his  dad's,  is  seriously 
thinking  of  forgetting  acting  and  turn- 
ing to  directing.  Matinee  Theater  pro- 
ducer Al  McCleary  has  taken  young 
John  under  his  wing,  and  next  season 
John  will  be  directing  several  more 
Matinees.  His  first  was  seen  last  July. 

Alice  Lon's  three  youngsters, 
Bobby,  Clint,  and  Larry,  spent  most 
of  the  summer  with  their  grandparents 
in  Kilgore,  Texas.  During  their  ab- 
sence, she  was  lovingly  reminded  of 
them  by  the  little  gifts  they  sent:  1 
bull  frog,  2  spiders,  3  butterflies,  etc. 

John  Lupton,  star  of  ABC-TV's 
Broken  Arrow,  has  had  more  than  his 
share  of  precarious  adventures  during 
personal  appearances.  For  instance, 
during  a  recent  El  Toro  Marine  Base 
benefit,  John's  bucking  bronc  threw 
him,  but  luckily  John  wasn't  hurt. 
Another  time,  he  agreed  to  be  pulled 
up  by  a  winch  into  an  air-seas  rescue 
helicopter  and,  a  third  time,  he  volun- 
teered to  ride  in  a  jet.  Says  John, 
"They  told  me  when  I  got  into  TV  it 
was  going  to  be  exciting.  I  should 
have  believed  them." 

When  the  Millionaire's  Marvin 
Miller  is  recognized  on  the  street,  he 
is  always  asked,  "Have  you  got  one 
of  those  million-dollar  checks  for 
me?"  Marvin  has  taken  to  carrying  a 
blank  checkbook  made  out  on  the 
Bank  of  Goodwill,  and  has  written 
25,000  million-dollar  checks  to  date. 

It's  interesting  to  note  that  at  the 
recent  party  given  by  producer  Don 
Fedderson,  some  of  the  biggest  TV 
names  in  Hollywood  wanted  some  of 
Marvin's  paper  largesse  .  .  .  "for  the 
children,  you  know." 

At  Fedderson's  catered  affair,  with 
servants  standing  around  by  the  score, 
Lawrence  Welk,  always  the  gentle- 
man, insisted  on  carrying  a  chair  for 
Mrs.  Fedderson,  who  had  no  place  to 
sit  at  their  table.  Same  party  found 
Johnny  Carson  busy  trading  houses 
with  a  New  York  actor  who  was  on  his 
way  to  Hollywood  for  a  picture.  "Jody 
and  I,"  explained  Johnny,  "wanted  to 
make  sure  and  get  somebody  with 
kids,  for  our  house  with  three  kids  is 
already  baby-proof.  We  wanted  to 
make  sure  the  house  we  moved  into 
was  baby-proof,  too.  I'd  hate  to  come 
home  and  find  someone's  rare  vase 
smashed  against  the  wall."  Kids  or 
no,  trust  Johnny  to  be  a  big  smash 
on  Do  You  Trust  Your  Wife? 

Cochise  and  calomine  lotion:  Mike 
Ansara,  who  plays  Cochise  on  Broken 
Arrow,  doing  his  own  realistic  bare- 
chested  fight  at  the  ranch,  was  knocked 
into  the  bushes — and  came  up  with 
poison  oak  from  waist  to  windpipe! 
Never  heard  of  an  Indian  allergic  to 
poison  oak,  but  then  anything  can 
happen  in  Hollywood! 


HURRY! 
ORDER  NOW 

"Make  this  the  merriest  Christmas  ever.  The  whole 
family  can  help  decorate  the  tree  with  these 
beautiful  STY RQ-  FOAM  FUSTIC  ORNAMENTS. 

j  With  (Mb  order  lor  ornaments  we  will  Include  •  book  of  the  world'l 
3/  most  popular  CHRISTMAS  CAROLS,  complete  words  and  music. 

t*  BiBBBiiiiiaBBllinHBBilBHBBBHBBBMBHillllHBBaaBmBl 

CHRISTMAS  ORNAMENTS  D.pt  1811  2^%^ 


GREATEST  RAROAIN  EVER  OFFERED! 

Just  imagine  —  Beautiful  Christmas  Tree  Ornaments,  manu- 
factured from  STYR0-F0AM  PLASTIC  in  dozens  Of  different 
shapes  and  designs  for  ONLY  1c  each. 
You  could  pay  as  much  as  40c  or  50c  each  for  fragile  decor- 
ations which  splinter  and  break  if  dropped.  But  even  children 
can  safely  handle  these  lovely,  featherweight  STYR0-F0AM 
ORNAMENTS  and  they  will  LAST  FOR  YEARS. 
Put  them  away  and  use  season  after  season.  Never  before 
could  you  afford  to  decorate  as  lavishly  as  your  heart  desires. 
ORDER  SEVERAL  SETS  —  Give  them  as  gifts,  decorate  every 
room  in  the  house.  Don't  miss  this  GREAT  BARGAIN.  You  must 
be  delighted  with  your  purchase  or  your  money  will  be  im- 
mediately refunded. 

Sind  tnhr  $1 M  tu  uck  wt  t» 
CNMSTIUS  ORNAMENTS  IMS  to.  Oiftrf,  Hillyml  M,  blit 


MONEY    BACK    GUARANTEE 


CHIISTMAS  ORNAMENTS       Dipt  1811 

10U  N».  Oilird,  Hlllymd  2».  Cilit. 


Dear  Sirs:  Please  rush- 


_sets  of  Christmas  Tree  Ornaments 


_  $1.00  each  set  of  100. 1  understand  I  can  return  for  full  refund 
If  not  DELIGHTED. 

I  liava  enclosed  S D  ««»         a  Cash         a  Many  Onttr 


v- 


Address . 
City 


STAMP 
COLLECTION    of 

EXCITING 
STAMP  ISSUES 


PLUS    HIGH    VALUE 
BONUS  alt  for  only 


25- 


BONUS: 

Scarce  High 
Value  Pic- 
torials Cata- 
loging over 
$2.00  (alone 
worth  many 
times  the 
price  of  this 
collection). 


1.  Giant  new  Czech  Boy  Scout  Issue 

2.  Set  of  5  World- Famous  Paintings 

3.  Germany  Schumann-Music  Error 

4.  Liberia    Olympic    Set    Complete 

5.  Spain    Civil    War   Min.   Sheet 

6.  Germany   Flower   Issue 

7.  New   Musician   Set  Complete 

8.  Germany  Cycle   Races  Complete 

9.  Romania  Phantom  Set  Complete 
10.    New  Stamp  Day  Issue  Complete 
ALL.    THE    ABOVE    PLUS    a    48    PAGE    STAMP    DICTION- 
ARY    for  only   25c    to    introduce   our    bargain    approvals. 

_STAMPEX  CO.,  Box  47-TTV,  White  Plains,  N.  Y._ 


Start  to 

STOP  SPLITTING  NAILS 
in  TWO  MINUTES 

without  Swallowing  Anything! 


NO  CAPSULES *N0  P0WDERS-N0  MESS 


Here  is  thrilling  news!  In  just  TWO 
minutes,  regardless  how  long  you 
have  had  nails  that  split  or  crack,  you 
can  start  to  strengthen  and  harden  your  fingernails  WITH- 
OUT taking  medicine,  vitamins,  capsules,  powders  or  ANY- 
THING internal!  Jody  Fair  Nail  Hardener  is  absolutely 
GUARANTEED  to  stop  your  nails  from  splitting  or  crack- 
ing and  to  make  them  more  lovely,  pliant,  and  Arm  .  .  . 
within  TWO  weeks,  or  less ...  or  your  money  refunded,  just 
place  a  small  amount  (only  one-half  teaspoonful)  in  a  cup 
or  dish  of  warm  water.  Soak  fingernails  TWO  MINUTES 
daily!  That's  all!  The  results  will  astound  you!  You'll  have 
nails  you  can  be  proud  of . . .  and  which  should  give  you  full- 
length,  full -point  manicures.  Used  by  famous  movie  stage 
and  TV  stars.  Order  yours  TODAY  /Only  S 1 .00  postpaid. 
No  C.  O.  D.'s. 

JODY  FAIR,  Dept.  1811  228  Lexington  Ave.,  New  York,  N.Y. 


,€%i 


FLORIDA   FASHIONS 


FREE 


STYLE 

CATALOGS 


A  New  Book  Each  Month— FREE 

Mail  coupon  today  for  FREE  copy 
oi  every  issue  of  the  nationally  fa- 
mous Florida  Fashions  Style  Cat- 
alog for  the  next  6  months.  The 
newest,  the  best,  the  exclusive  in 
family  apparel — at  money-saving 
prices.  Satisfaction  guaranteed. 


|  FLORIDA  FASHIONS,  DEPT.   57N2 

■  4501  E.  Colonial  Drive,  Orlando,  Fla. 

!  Send  latest  FREE  catalog  and  all  Spring  1958  issues. 

J  NAME 

'  ADDRESS 


I 


■   POSTOFFICE.  .. 


•  • —1£!1:—— ~ J 


Chi-Ches 

turn 

"problem"  days 
into 
party  days. 


No  need  to  miss  good 
times  because  of 
functional  menstrual 
distress— when  you 
can  get  such  wonder- 
ful quick  and  lasting 
relief  from  pain,  | 
cramps,  nervous  ten- 
sion and  headache 

with  Chi-Ches-Ters.  There's  nothing  like  them— in 
doctors'  tests  9  out  of  10  women  got  wonderful  re- 
lief beyond  expectations.  Try  this  fast-acting  pre- 
scription-like formula.  Your  money  back  if  not 
satisfied.  Purse  Pak  50if.  Economy  Sizes  $1.15  and 
$2.25.  At  your  drug  store,  or  we  will  fill  direct  orders. 

FREE — Illustrated  booklet  of  intimate  facts 
every  woman  should  know.  Mailed  in  plain 
wrapper.  Write  to-isv!  Chichester  Chemical 
Company,  Dept.  23-S,     Philadelphia  46,  Pa. 


71 


A  Home  of  Her  Own 


(Continued  from  page  30) 
in  which  she,  in  turn,  was  born  and  reared 
— this  is  the  only  house  where  Carmel  has 
ever  lived.  After  she  married  Bill  in  Lon- 
don on  April  20,  1953,  they  had  apartments 
over  there  and  later  in  New  York,  but  no 
settled  home. 

"I  married  a  gypsy  in  Bill,"  she  smiles. 
"He  has  always  been  in  the  entertainment 
business,  with  ballrooms  in  Dublin  and 
London — a  huge  one  in  London — and 
now  such  a  lovely  ballroom  in  City  Center 
in  New  York.  About  1,400  come  Saturday 
nights,  and  it  would  do  your  heart  good 
to  see  all  the  nice  boys  and  girls  dancing. 
Maybe  they  had  nowhere  to  go  before,  but 
now  they  all  meet  for  Irish  and  American 
dancing,  and  it  is  run  very  nicely.  Bill 
has  promoted  tours  of  big  bands  all  over 
Ireland  and  Scotland  and  England,  in  the 
big  cities,  and  he  himself  loves  to  travel. 
We  didn't  think  he  would  ever  want  to 
settle  down  any  one  place,  but  now  there 
are  the  children  and  we  want  a  home  for 
them.    And,   I   think,   for  ourselves,    too." 

The  family  consists  of  small  Jane,  born 
June  6,  1954,  three  months  after  her  par- 
ents' arrival  in  New  York  and  about  four 
months  before  Carmel  won  an  Arthur 
Godfrey  Talent  Scouts  audition  and  made 
a  first  appearance,  about  a  week  after 
that,  on  the  Godfrey  morning  show,  on 
October  18,  1954.  Baby  Michael  arrived 
August  21,  1956.  In  addition,  there  is  Nora 
Blewitt  ("who  takes  care  of  us  and  runs 
everything")  with  the  charm  of  County 
Mayo,  Ireland,  written  all  over  her  and 
the  enthusiasm  of  having  become  a  United 
States  citizen  early  last  summer — some- 
thing to  which  Carmel  and  Bill  look 
forward  when  they  have  been  here  long 
enough  to  qualify.  "Nora  used  to  go 
around  the  house  singing  patriotic  songs 
all  the  time,  but  lately  it's  love  songs  she's 
adding  to  the  patriotism,  so  who  can  tell?" 
Carmel  twinkles. 

Jane's  name  was  chosen  because  they 
liked  a  plain,  old-fashioned  name.  Michael 
was  named  for  Carmel's  father:  "And  a 
proud  man  he  is  over  that — but,  half  the 
time  now,  I  am  using  pet  names  for  the 
baby,  as  we  mothers  do  for  the  littlest 
ones." 

Bill  says  it  is  the  kind  of  household 
where  everything  gets  beautifully  tidied 
up  one  minute — and,  ten  minutes  later,  it 
gets  untidy — and  then  it  gets  very  tidy 
again,  as  Jane  is  admonished  to  pick  up 
her  toys  and  Michael  is  rescued  from  piles 
of  overturned  blocks  and  toy  trains.  But 
it's  a  happy  house,  and  that's  what  they 
think  really  matters.  "We  don't  try  to 
keep  everything  nice  for  the  future.  We 
use  the  whole  house  and  we  enjoy  it.  It's 
a  house  where  you  can  go  in  and  drop 
down    anywhere    and   not    be    wondering, 


Should  I  sit  here,  or  there?  A  homely 
house — and  in  Ireland,  they  would  know 
exactly  what  I  mean  by  that,  although  I 
know  in  America  the  word  has  another 
and  less  lovely  meaning." 

Carmel  learned  about  that  other  mean- 
ing in  an  amusing  way.  She  got  off  a  plane 
in  Minneapolis  one  day  and  was  asked  to 
say  something  for  radio  and  television.  "I 
told  them  how  much  I  loved  coming  back 
to  Minneapolis  because  the  people  were  all 
so  homely — and  I  heard  little  gasps  from 
those  near  me.  They  were  thinking  of  the 
word  in  the  sense  that  it  means  'not  beau- 
tiful,' but  I  was  thinking  of  it  meaning 
'homey'  and  friendly  and  hospitable,  which 
the  dictionary  says  is  also  correct.  The 
people  who  were  listening  knew  what  I 
meant,  but  it  caused  great  fun.  It  is  what 
I  mean  when  I  talk  about  our  home." 

During  the  first  months  in  the  house, 
they  were  both  so  busy  with  their  work 
that  they  hardly  had  time  to  buy  anything. 
They  sat  on  boxes  for  a  while,  until  the 
novelty  of  that  wore  off.  So  one  evening 
they  stopped  on  the  way  home  and  bought 
furniture  for  almost  the  whole  house  at 
one  time,  except  for  the  fine  authentic 
Early  American  dining-room  set  which  a 
friend  got  for  them  in  Massachusetts.  "It 
has  a  hutch — which  you  would  now  call 
a  buffet,  and  in  Ireland  we  would  call  a 
dresser — and  real  beautiful  it  is.  And 
would  you  believe  me,  I  was  that  tired 
when  we  were  shopping  for  the  bedroom 
furniture  that,  when  I  lay  down  on  a  bed 
to  try  it  for  softness,  I  dozed  right  off  in 
the  store! 

"We  didn't  care  what  we  might  lack,  so 
long  as  we  had  a  rocking  chair,  so  we  got 
that,  too.  And  everything  in  Early  Amer- 
ican, with  the  wood  that  lovely  golden 
color.  Stores  asked  me  if  I  wanted  a 
decorator  to  come  look  at  the  house  and 
see  what  we  should  have,  but  Bill  and  I 
and  the  house  knew  what  was  needed  to 
be  right  for  it.  Nothing  too  fancy,  so  the 
children  would  have  to  be  told  to  be  care- 
ful every  minute." 

There  is  a  big  garden  at  the  back  which, 
so  far,  gets  the  minimum  of  attention 
because  of  lack  of  time,  but  the  rockery 
in  front,  planted  with  flowers,  is  lovely. 
Roses  bloom  three  times  a  year.  The  first 
time  Carmel  was  back  in  Ireland  with  Bill, 
she  was  sad  at  leaving  her  childhood  home. 
But  last  year,  and  this  year,  maybe  because 
of  the  house,  she  felt  a  little  different: 
"Wherever  a  woman  has  house  and  chil- 
dren, that  becomes  home  to  her,  I  think. 
The  first  time  I  came  back  and  found  our 
own  roses  waiting  in  a  riot  of  bloom,  I 
didn't  even  wait  to  get  a  scissors,  but 
grabbed  a  handy  knife  and  started  to  cut 
them,  I  was  that  eager  to  have  some  inside. 
I  cut  the  tip  of  my  finger  and  had  to  be 


T 
V 
R 

72 


TV  RADIO  MIRROR  proudly  displays  this  official  em- 
blem of  the  Audit  Bureau  of  Circulations.  It  denotes  the 
quality  of  our  magazine's  circulation   just  as — 

Sterling  denotes  worth  in  silver 
Classic  denotes  worth  in  literature 
Karat  denotes  worth  in  gold 

The  Audit  Bureau  of  Circulations,  or  ABC  as  it  is  commonly  known, 
is  a  cooperative,  non-profit  association  formed  to  standardize 
and  authenticate  facts  about  the  copies  purchased  by  readers. 
This  circulation  information  becomes  a  valuable  tool  to  your 
editors  in  choosing  appealing  material  for  you. 
To  our  advertisers,  our  membership  in  the  ABC  is  a  certification 
of  our  circulation  claims. 


rushed  to  the  drugstore  for  first  aid,  so 
that  taught  me  a  lesson.  But  it  didn't 
change  my  feeling  for  my  house  and  my 
garden." 

Late  in  July  of  this  year,  the  family  went 
over  to  London  and  to  Dublin,  the  latter 
for  a  wonderful  visit  with  the  family.  With 
Carmel's  father,  eager  to  see  the  small  boy 
who  is  his  namesake.  With  her  sister  Betty 
and  Betty's  husband,  Christy  Keough, 
and  their  two  children  about  the  same 
ages  as  Jane  and  Michael.  With  her 
brother  Kevin  and  his  wife  and  their  five, 
the  last  of  them  twins,  and  her  brother 
Naoish  and  his  wife.  And  friends  every- 
where, in  Ireland  e  ^d  in  England,  eager 
for  a  look  at  them  all  and  talk  of  old  times 
and   new. 

Jane,  who  talks  "non-stop,"  her  mother 
says,  was  in  her  element,  explaining  about 
the  house  in  New  Jersey  and  about  her 
own  little  room,  and  her  girlfriend  Jamie, 
the  same  age,  who  is  her  constant  compan- 
ion at  home.  About  the  canaries,  Ginger 
and  Paddy,  who  start  to  sing  the  moment 
the  teakettle  begins  to  whistle  and  hardly 
let  up  all  day.  About  how  she  sings  little 
Irish  ballads  to  Michael  when  it's  time  for 
him  to  sleep  ("And  she  sings  them  dead 
in  tune,"  Carmel  said  proudly.  "Although 
she  didn't  tell  how  sometimes  she  sings  to 
Michael  when  he's  playing  on  the  floor 
and  she's  minding  him  for  a  few  minutes, 
and  when  she  gets  tired  of  it  she  is  just  as 
apt  to  drag  him  along  to  the  kitchen  by 
one  chubby  leg  and  dump  him  at  Nora's 
feet  or  mine,  and  him  looking  up  at  her 
and  laughing  and  thinking  it's  some  kind 
of  game!") 

They  try  not  to  encourage  Jane  to  be 
too  grown-up,  or  to  show  their  surprise 
when  she  says  unexpectedly  mature  things, 
or  even  when  she  amuses  them  with  some 
droll  comment.  Nora  has  to  turn  her  face 
away  to  hide  her  smiles,  and  Carmel  and 
Bill  pretend  often  not  to  hear,  so  the  little 
girl   will   not   become  self-conscious. 

"Jane  was  watching  her  mother  put  on 
lipstick  one  morning,"  Bill  said,  "and  sud- 
denly she  looked  very  serious.  'You  have 
a  nice  clean  face  now,  Mommy,'  she  told 
Carmel.  'Why  do  you  want  to  put  that  on 
and  dirty  it?'  We  hope  she  will  feel  that 
way  about  lipstick  for  quite  a  while  yet, 
but  we  imagine  this  will  not  last  too  long." 

Friends  took  Jane  to  the  seashore  one 
day  last  summer,  the  longest  time  she  had 
ever  been  away  from  them.  She  came 
home  full  of  stories  of  being  in  the  sea  and 
building  sand  castles,  but  she  ended  by 
saying  "I  missed  you  so  much,  Mommy." 
Carmel  thought  she  had  talked  all  the 
homesickness  out  of  her  before  she  went 
to  sleep,  and  she  had  said  what  a  good  day 
they  would  have  together  when  they  woke 
in  the  morning.  Later  that  night,  she 
found  Jane  curled  outside  their  bedroom 
door,  fast  asleep,  like  a  little  puppy  who 
wanted  to  feel  close  to  those  she   loved. 

Carmel's  work  schedule  brings  her  home 
shortly  after  lunch,  most  weekdays,  and 
the  rest  of  the  day  and  evening  belongs  to 
the  family.  She  is  away  from  the  home 
and  cliildren  much  less  than  mothers  who 
must  work  from  nine  to  five,  has  most 
meals  with  them,  is  there  to  tuck  them  into 
bed  and  hear  their  prayers.  When  she 
leaves  the  house,  she  explains  why  she 
must  go,  and  reminds  Jane  that  sometimes 
her  daddy  and  Jane  go  off  and  Mommy 
stays  with  Michael,  and  sometimes  it  is 
Jane  who  must  stay  home  with  the  baby 
and  let  her  mother  go  out.  If  any  fuss  is 
made,   such   logic   usually   clears   the   air. 

"Bill  and  I  keep  every  promise  we  make 
to  her,"  says  Carmel.  "If  we  promise  her 
a  sweet,  she  knows  she  will  get  it.  If  we 
say  she  cannot  do  something,   she  knows 


we  mean  that,  too,  and  it  works  very  well 
because  we   are  honest  with  her." 

Bill  Fuller  thinks  that  one  of  the  won- 
derful things  about  life  in  this  country  is 
that  women  can  now  work  part-time  and 
be  with  their  families  a  great  deal  also: 
"A  woman  can  work  a  few  hours  a  day 
and  it  gives  her  an  interest  and  keeps  her 
in  trim  and  happier.  It  breaks  the  monot- 
ony of  housework  and  shopping  and  taking 
care  of  children  every  minute,  yet  she 
has  the  pleasure  of  that,  too." 

People  who  see  Carmel  Quinn  in  person 
for  the  first  time,  especially  in  a  night-club 
appearance,  are  struck  by  several  surpris- 
ing things.  Her  slender  figure,  because  the 
television  cameras  add  some  pounds,  and 
because  to  listeners  on  radio  her  low- 
pitched  voice  seems  to  come  from  a  much 
bigger  woman.  So  the  graceful  woman, 
who  is  five-foot-six  and  wears  a  size-10 
amazes  them.  They  are  struck  by  the 
lovely  coloring,  which  only  color  TV  could 
do  justice  to.  And  her  sense  of  comedy, 
and  her  simplicity. 

The  word  refreshing  is  the  one  most 
often  heard  to  describe  her  work  in  clubs. 
She  wears  simple  dresses.  "I  don't  think 
extravagantly  fancy  costumes  would  suit 
me,  and  I  don't  think  the  people  would 
like  me  in  such  clothes.  I  talk  to  them,  and 
I  sing.  I  find  they  like  me  in  comedy,  so 
now  I  do  a  great  deal  of  that,  and  I  like  it, 
too."  She  sings  the  lovely  Irish  and  Welsh 
and  Scottish  tunes  so  long  identified  with 
her  on  the  Godfrey  shows  and  on  records, 
from  the  day  she  made  her  first  big  hit 
doing  "How  Can  You  Buy  Killarney?"  But 
she  also  sings  the  modern  American  songs. 

This  year  Carmel  made  her  first  record- 
ing of  a  popular  type,  on  the  M-G-M 
label — "Who  Are  You  Fooling  Now?"  and 
the  flipover,  "You  Can't  Run  Away  From 
Your  Heart."  She  would  like  to  do  more 
songs  like  these,  to  add  variety  to  the 
earlier  recordings  she  made  of  Old  Coun- 
try tunes,  some  of  them  with  Arthur 
Godfrey. 

"He  has  been  very  good  to  me,  Mr.  God- 
frey has,"  she  says  earnestly.  "If  it  were 
not  for  him,  I  would  not  be  known  at  all. 
He  gave  me  the  chance  to  sing,  and  he 
gave  me  the  chance  for  a  little  bit  of  talk 
and  fun  always  on  the  show,  so  that  I 
learned  what  I  was  able  to  do.  He  is  so 
natural,  and  he  never  has  done'  anything 
to  embarrass  me,  even  at  the  beginning, 
when  I  was  a  bit  shy  in  front  of  a  big 
American  audience.  I  have  found  him  a 
wonderful  boss.  Bill  admires  Mr.  Godfrey. 
He  finds  him  a  man  of  many  interests.  He 
has  been  with  him  on  his  boat,  his  plane, 
his  helicopter,  and  always  found  him  a 
man  who  doesn't  know  the  meaning  of  fear. 
Bold  and  calm  in  the  face  of  danger,  Bill 
thinks  him." 

As  Carmel  Quinn,  she  is  marking  her 
third  anniversary  on  the  Godfrey  pro- 
grams, known  now  to  millions  as  that 
lovely  girl  with  the  haunting  voice  and 
the  quick  wit  and  soft  speech  of  Erin. 
Known  happiest  as  Mrs.  Bill  Fuller,  with 
a  house  set  on  a  hill,  and  a  family  of  her 
own.  With  the  kettle  boiling  for  tea  the 
moment  she  hears  Bill  coming  up  the  walk, 
and  the  cheery,  inviting  kitchen  always 
open   to   the   friends   who    come    to   visit. 

"At  home  in  Ireland,"  she  always  says, 
"many's  the  crisis  that  has  been  settled 
by  a  cup  of  tea.  Someone  will  want  to 
tell  about  something  that's  troubling  him 
and  we  say,  'Wait  until  we  put  on  the 
kettle  and  have  our  tea,'  and  it's  taken  for 
granted  you  can't  talk  until  you  have  your 
cup. 

"That  is  the  way  we  would  like  it  to  be 
always  at  our  home.  People  who  are 
troubled  or  worried  can  have  their  tea 
and  talk.  But  we  hope  that  mostly  they 
will  come  just  to  be  happy  and  comfort- 
able with  us,  and  to  find  us  homely  people." 


■wsSSSSS^t 


its 


for  fJie 


Nylon  tricot 

/.with  permanent 

pleats,  daintily  . 

accented  with 

!\  heavenly  lace. 

4  gore  fit. 


Strain-free  swing  straps 
plus  lined  cups  give  miracle  lift. 
Elastics  assure  hug-you  fit. 
Pre-shrunk  cotton. 


STAROUST  INC.,  145  Madison  Avenue,  New  York  16 


WALLET 

SIZE 
PHOTOS 


from  favorite  pictures,  weddings,  gradu- 
ations, babies,  classmates,  pets,  etc. 
Send  $1  with  picture.  Your  original  will 
be  returned  with  25  beautiful  prints  on  fin- 
est double  weight  portrait  paper.  Money 
back  guarantee.     Add  10#  P.P.  I 

FREE!    I    PHOTO    ENCASED    IN    PLASTIC 
ROXANNE   STUDIOS—  Dept.  504 

Box   138/ Wall  St.  SU..  New  York  5.  N.  Y. 


FREE!-PearlNecklace 


This  beautiful  pearl 
necklace  with  117 
Graduated  Simulated 
Pearls  is  yours  abso- 
lutely FREE.  Enclose 
25c  coin  for  packing  and 
handling. 

LADY  ALICE  GIFT  CLUB 

Dept.    P-25,    121    E.    24    St. 

New   York    10,    N.   Y. 


Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 
New  Way  Without  Surgery 

Science  Finds  Healing  Substance  That 
Relieves  Pain— Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 

For  the  first  time  science  has  found  a 
new  healing  substance  with  the  astonishing 
ability  to  shrink  hemorrhoids  and  to  relieve 
pain  —  without  surgery. 

In  case  after  case,  while  gently  relieving 
pain,  actual  reduction  (shrinkage)  took 
place. 

Most  amazing  of  all  —  results  were  so 
thorough  that  sufferers  made  astonishing 
statements  like  "Piles  have  ceased  to  be  a 
problem!" 

The  secret  is  a  new  healing  substance 
(Bio-Dyne*)  — discovery  of  a  world-famous 
research  institute. 

This  substance  is  now  available  in  sup- 
pository or  ointment  form  under  the  name 
Preparation  H.*  Ask  for  it  at  all  drug  count- 
ers—money back  guarantee.     *Bec.  u.  S.  Pat.  Oft. 


FREE  I for  ASTHMA! 


■  Bronchitis  &  Catarrh  Sufferer-; 
SAMPLE      No  Cost!  •  No  Obligation! 

Write  today  for  FREE  SAMPLE  of  MAGAIR  new  scientific 
wonder  formula  guaranteed  to  bring'quick  relief  from  miseries 
of  asthma  attacks,  bronchitis,  catarrh  and  hay  fever,  Cough- 
ing, wheezing,  gasping,  choking  relieved  immediately  in  prac- 
tically all  cases.  MAGAIR  is  a  tested  and  proved  prescription 
formula.  Try  before  you  buy!  For  FREE  SAMPLE  write  to: 

MAGAIR,100W.ChicagoAve.,TSM-11,Chicago10 


500  Milds  Photo 


Thousands  spent  yearly  by  advertisers  for  chil- 
dren's photos  for  magazine  ads,  calendars,  etc. 
Hundreds  selected  monthly.  Up  to  $500  paid. 
Ages  2  mos.  to  20  yrs.  Rush  ONE  small  photo 
for  approval.  Print  child's  and  mother's  name, 
address  on  back.  Returned  2  weeks  with  report. 
NO  OBLIGATION. 

Hollywood  Spotlite,  Dept.  AL  (AM) 
8346    Beverly   Blvd..    Hollywood,    Calif. 


WATCH 


COME  TO  LIFE! 


See  it  Gleam  with  Radiant  Color,  Sparkling  Lustre 

—  Shades  Lighter  — with  New  Shampoo 

Made  Specially  for  Blondes 

Want  to  keep  your  hair  from  getting  dark  and  faded?  Want  to 
restore  its  life  and  lustre  — see  it  shades  lighter,  brighter,  shinier  — at 
Once!  Then  use  BLONDEX!  For  BLONDEX,  alone,  contains  miraculous 
ANDIUM  —  shines  and  lightens  as  it  shampoos.  Made  at  home,  fresh 
as  you  need  it,  the  creamy,  billowy  lather  rinses  away  dingy  film 
that  makes  hair  dark  and  dull.  Hair  sparkles  with  lustre,  looks  shades 
lighter  — radiant.  No  wonder  more  blondes  use  BLONDEX  than  any 
other  shampoo!  Safe  for  children.  Get  BLONDEX  today.  At  10<,  drug 
Ond  toilet  goods  counters. 


T 

V 

R 

73 


(Continued  from  page  27) 
high-school  football  star,  Bob  left  Cali- 
fornia's Long  Beach  Poly  High  in  the 
mid-'30's  to  sell  advertising  for  the  Los 
Angeles  Examiner.  Never  having  been 
in  a  school  play  or  even  taken  a  public 
speaking  class,  Bob  was  surprised  when 
his  brother-in-law,  Clarence  "Bud"  Fish- 
er, called  him  one  day.  "We're  starting  a 
half-hour  record  program,"  said  Fisher, 
who  was  advertising  manager  for  Fore- 
man and  Clark.  "Do  you  think  you  could 
read   the    commercials?" 

Bob — who  confesses  he  was  never  great 
as  a  newspaper  space  salesman — jumped 
at  the  opportunity.  But,  even  though  his 
brother-in-law  represented  the  sponsor, 
Bob  still  had  to  audition  for  the  job.  When 
he  walked  into  the  KEHE  radio  studio, 
he  quickly  learned  the  meaning  of  "but- 
terflies in  the  stomach,"  for  this  was  no 
ordinary  audition.  The  traffic  manager 
handed  him  the  commercial  copy — and 
ten  minutes  later,  he  was  reading  into  a 
live  microphone,  with  thousands  of  peo- 
ple in  the  Los  Angeles  area  listening  in. 
His  brother-in-law  heard  the  program 
from  his  downtown  office.  He  called 
right  after  the  show:  "That  sounded  all 
right  to  me.  You  start  tomorrow."  Bob's 
first  salary  was  twenty  dollars  a  week. 

Then,  one  day  just  three  months  later, 
when  Bob  went  in  to  do  the  show,  the 
traffic  manager  surprised  him  with  the 
news  that  it  had  been  cancelled.  "My 
brother-in-law  had  neglected  to  tell  me," 
says  Bob.  "Out  of  a  job  and  with  nothing 
to  do,  I  went  home.  The  next  morning,  I 
returned  to  the  station  to  apply  as  a  staff 
announcer.  Since  I  was  still  relatively 
new,  I  didn't  know  what  sort  of  a  recep- 
tion to  expect.  I'd  no  sooner  come  into 
the  studio  than  I  ran  into  the  program 
director,  Mayfield  Kaylor.  I  felt  I  should 
have  prepared  a  sales  spiel.  But — be- 
fore I  had  a  chance  to  open  my  mouth — he 
said,  'You're  hired!'  I  almost  fell  over 
the  microphone. 

"  'Thank  you  very  much,'  I  said.  'I 
just  came  in  to  ask  for  the  job.  What 
happened?'  He  explained  that  one  of  the 
announcers  suddenly  had  been  taken  to 
the  hospital  for  an  emergency  appendec- 
tomy. The  station  needed  someone  who 
knew  the  board  and  who  could  go  to 
work  immediately." 

Ji<x-footballer  Bob  quickly  developed 
into  radio's  triple-threat  man.  Not  only 
was  he  staff  announcer,  but,  in  1937,  he 
also  handled  publicity  for  KEHE  and  did 
the  sound  effects  on  a  show  called  The 
Story  Of  A  Modern  Girl's  Romance.  "This 
last  job,"  he  says,  "came  mainly  because 
they  couldn't  afford  the  luxury  of  a  real 
sound-effects  man.  Frequently,  I  put 
the  sound-effects  record  on  at  one  mike, 
ran  to  another  to  read  a  few  lines,  and 
then  back  to  pull  off  the  record — at  the 
same  time  cueing  the  other  actors  .  .  . 
it  was  kind  of  hectic." 

In  1938,  Station  KEHE  was  sold  to  Earle 
C.  Anthony,  and  Bob  again  was  out  of  a 
jjob.  He  next  spent  a  year  at  San  Francis- 
co's Station  KYA,  then  joined  the  Holly- 
wood staff  of  the  Columbia  Broadcasting 
System — where,  for  the  next  thirteen 
years  (with  three  out  for  the  service), 
he  became  one  of  their  top  announcers. 
As  in  many  a  modern  American  ro- 
mance, Bob  met  his  wife,  the  former  Bar- 
bara Brewster,  while  he  was  in  the  Army. 
At  the  outbreak  of  W»rld  War  II,  he  en- 
listed as  a  private,  was  advanced  to 
sergeant,  and  given  the  responsibility  of 
J  helping  to  establish  the  famed  Mosquito 
.  Network,  an  inter-island  system  of  Pa- 
cific radio  stations. 

Bob    and    Barbara    met    in    New    Cale- 
74 


Lucky  LeMond 

donia.  Barbara  had  the  lead  in  the  USO 
show,  "The  Dough  Girls."  Bob  was  work- 
ing at  the  radio  station  at  Noumea.  "As 
usual,"  he  explains,  "the  traveling  USO 
troupes  visited  the  station — we  were 
all  sort  of  in  the  same  business.  My  re- 
action to  Barbara?  First  of  all,  I  was  pre- 
pared. Before  the  troupe  arrived,  our 
special  services  officer  brought  around  a 
brochure  with  pictures  of  the  six  girls  in 
the  show.  I  had  the  average  sergeant's 
interest  in  an  attractive  girl  and,  when 
he  asked  me  which  one  I  liked,  I  pointed 
to  Barbara's  picture  and  said.  This  is  the 
one  for  me.'  He  guaranteed  that,  when  the 
troupe  arrived,  he'd  bring  them  over  to 
the  station.  And  he  did.  Right  away,  Bar- 
bara and  I  established  a  sort  of  rapport." 

Barbara  agrees.  Blue  eyes  sparkling, 
she  says,  "I  was  sure  we'd  met  before. 
Honestly,  it  wasn't  a  line  either.  Bob  did 
look  so  familiar  to  me.  He  said,  'No,  we've 
never  met.'  That's  when  it  all  started. 
Our  first  date?  It  took  a  week  before  he 
even  asked!  He  had  been  a  sergeant  when 
we  met,  was  then  promoted  to  warrant 
officer  and  wanted  to  celebrate.  He  came 
to  rehearsal  and  asked  if  he  could  drive 
me  home. 

"I  must  say  the  Islands  were  romantic," 
Barbara  admits.  "It  was  very  exciting,  be- 
cause not  every  girl  has  a  chance  at 
courtship  in  the  splendor  of  a  South  Pa- 
cific setting.  Bob  generally  picked  me  up 
after  the  show,  and,  though  we  didn't 
go  walking  hand  in  hand  under  the  moon- 
light, we  did  go  jeeping  side  by  side." 

Barbara  stayed  in  the  Islands  for  three 
months.  After  their  first  date,  they  saw 
one  another  every  day — with  the  ex- 
ception of  a  two-week  period  shortly  be- 
fore she  returned  to  the  States.  They  had 
a  battle  royal  that  made  war  itself  look 
like  a  sandlot  squabble!  Like  most  young 
lovers,  neither  Bob  nor  Barbara  remem- 
bers what  the  fight  was  about — but  they 
do  remember  how  they  made  up. 

"We  were  doing  a  hospital  show  the 
next  night,"  Barbara  recalls,  "and  I  found 
I'd  run  out  of  stage  make-up.  Somehow, 
Bob  found  out  about  it  and  volunteered 
to  sacrifice  one  of  his  free  days  to  fly  down 
to  New  Zealand — the  only  place  you  could 
buy  make-up — to  get  what  I  needed.  After 
such  a  generous  offer,  how  could  I  be 
angry?   We  made  up  over  the  make-up." 

Barbara  returned  to  New  York,  where 
she  went  into  a  Broadway  show,  "Fox 
Hole  in  the  Parlor."  She  says  Bob  was  a 
good  correspondent — between  them,  they 
kept  the  Pacific  mails  busy.  With  the  in- 
vasion of  the  Philippines,  Bob  moved  up 
to  Lingayen  Gulf  and  Manila — then  came 
the  surrender  and  work  with  Radio  Tokyo. 
In  March,  1946,  he  was  hospitalized  with 
jaundice  and  was  transferred  to  the  United 
States,  where  he  was  honorably  discharged 
in  June,  1946. 

Following  her  Broadway  show,  Barbara 
moved  back  to  California's  San  Fernando 
Valley.  As  soon  as  Bob  returned,  he  called 
her.  "A  week  later,"  she  recalls,  "we  were 
visiting  with  some  friends,  when  Bob 
suddenly  said,  'Will  you  marry  me?'  I'll 
have  to  admit  I  wasn't  surprised — I  was 
hoping  he'd  ask  me.  And  I  said  yes." 

Bob  picks  up  the  story:  "The  wedding 
took  place  at  Barbara's  mother's  home  in 
Encinitas.  I  had  gone  back  to  work  at 
CBS  and  had  two  days  off.  We  spent 
one  day  getting  married,  and  one  day 
honeymooning  at  the  Del  Mar  Hotel. 
That  was  eleven  years  ago." 

When  Bob  and  Barbara  were  first  mar- 
ried, they  lived  in  his  Los  Feliz  hills 
home,  into  which  Barbara  transferred  her 
New  York  apartment  furniture.  She  was 
especially  proud  of  an  18th-century  din- 


ing-room suite  and  desk — which  they  still 
have  in  their  current  Palisades  home. 

Barbara  and  Bob  had  wanted  to  move  to 
the  Palisades  for  some  time.  After  a  great 
deal  of  searching,  they  finally  found  a 
house  they  both  liked.  "But,"  says  Bob, 
"we  couldn't  get  it  until  we  had  sold  our 
Los  Feliz  house.  In  the  meantime,  we  had 
gotten  into  the  habit  of  taking  a  house  at 
Malibu  Beach  for  the  summer  months. 
When  we  moved  in,  a  couple  of  summers 
ago,  we  asked  my  mother  and  Dad  to 
stay  at  the  hill  house  and  watch  over  it 
during  our  absence.  When  I  stopped  by  to 
pick  up  the  mail  one  day,  Dad — an  ex- 
real -estate  man  who  has  never  given  up — 
asked  if  I  still  wanted  to  sell  it.  I  answered 
yes,  and  he  said,  'Well,  I'll  run  a  little  ad 
in  the  paper  and  see  what  hapoens.'  Two 
days  later,  he  told  me  he'd  sold  the  house. 

"That  was  mid-August.  We  were  to 
leave  the  beach  house  the  first  of  Septem- 
ber, and  the  buyers  wanted  immediate 
possession  of  our  hills  home.  That  was 
fine  by  us — because  it  gave  us  the  op- 
portunity to  buy  the  house  we'd  been 
looking  at  for  two  years.  But,  when  we 
went  back  to  close  the  deal,  we  learned 
that  house  had  been  sold  two  days  earlier. 
So — we  needed  a  home  immediately.  We 
saw  the  place  we're  in  now  was  up  for 
sale,  walked  in,  priced  it,  and  bought  it. 
Liked  it  better  than  the  other  one!" 

.Like  all  other  American  parents,  Bob 
and  Barbara  feel  that  their  three  sons, 
Robin,  9,  Stephen,  5%,  and  Barry,  4,  give 
a  special  meaning  to  their  lives.  When  the 
LeMonds  learned  about  their  first  ex- 
pected baby,  Bob  was  convinced  it  was 
going  to  be  a  boy!  "In  fact,"  says  Barbara 
laughing,  "Bob  wouldn't  even  go  to  the 
trouble  of  picking  out  a  girl's  name.  He 
told  everyone  he  was  going  to  have  a  son, 
was  going  to  name  him  Robin,  and  that 
was  it!  Boy  or  girl,  I,  for  one,  didn't  care. 
Just  so  long  as  the  child  was  healthy.  But 
nothing  anyone  said  could  convince  him 
there  was  a  possibility  the  child  might  be 
a  girl.  I'm  glad  for  Bob  that  Robin  was 
a  boy.  He  would  have  been  terribly  em- 
barrassed otherwise." 

When  Robin  was  born  at  the  Good 
Samaritan  Hospital,  Bob,  acting  like  an 
average  new  father,  was  more  nervous 
than  Barbara.  "I'm  a  cigarette-smoker 
and  a  floor-pacer,"  he  says.  "You  can 
imagine  the  condition  of  my  nerves  when, 
after  eighteen  hours,  the  baby  still  hadn't 
arrived.  Barbara  entered  the  hospital 
Saturday  morning  at  9:30  and,  all  that 
day  and  night,  I  greeted  new  fathers  as 
they  came  and  went.  Finally  a  doctor, 
whose  wife  was  having  a  baby,  too,  be- 
came concerned  over  my  lack  of  food  and 
sleep.  'It  doesn't  pay  for  us  to  deliver  the 
children,'  he  said  to  me,  'if  we  starve  the 
fathers  to  death  in  the  meantime  .  .  .  come 
on,  now,  let's  have  some  coffee.' 

"Reluctantly,  I  went  out  with  him. 
Wouldn't  you  know?  During  the  ten  min- 
utes I  was  gone  out  of  the  eighteen  hours, 
our  baby,  Robin,  was  born.  When  I  came 
back,  the  nurse  was  looking  for  me  in  the 
hall.  She  said,  'Your  wife  has  just  given 
birth  to  a  boy.  Would  you  like  to  see 
him?'  We  walked  down  the  hall  and 
looked  in  the  nursery  window.  He  looked 
pretty  much  as  I  expected.  In  fact,  I'd 
been  so  looking  forward  to  a  boy  that, 
when  I  first  saw  him,  it  seemed  as  if  I'd 
known  him  always." 

When  the  second  LeMond  baby  was  ex- 
pected, Bob  and  Barbara  thought  they'd 
like  the  next  child  to  be  a  girl.  In  fact, 
up  until  the  time  Stephen  was  born,  they 
fully  expected  a  girl.  After  Stephen  ar- 
rived, they  admitted  to  each  other  that 
they  couldn't  be  more  pleased. 


So,  when  the  third  child  was  on  its  way, 
Bob  and  Barbara  were  in  agreement  that 
there  was  no  sense  in  changing  the  pat- 
tern. "But  most  of  our  friends,"  laughs 
Barbara,  "said  that,  this  time,  we  really 
should  have  a  girl.  But  Bob  and  I  were 
used  to  little  boys,  thought  they  were 
wonderful.  We  wouldn't  know  what  to  do 
with  a  girl.  Sure  enough,  Barry  was  a  boy. 

"Fortunately  for  us,"  says  Barbara,  "Bob 
has  the  kind  of  schedule  today  which  al- 
lows him  to  spend  a  great  deal  of  time 
with  the  boys.  He  loves  it.  The  first  thing 
he  says,  when  he  comes  home,  is:  'Hello, 
darling — where  are  the  children?'  Then 
he's  out  in  the  back  yard  helping  them 
tear  their  bikes  apart  and  putting  them 
back  together  (I  secretly  suspect  that, 
like  most  fathers,  he's  bought  the  bikes 
more  for  himself  than  for  the  boys).  Or 
he's  playing  tag  with  the  boys.  In  fact,  I 
often  think  I  have  four  boys  instead  of 
three. 

"Since  Bob  films  a  great  many  of  his 
commercials  here  in  Hollywood,  going  to 
New  York  only  infrequently,  he  can  de- 
vote much  of  his  free  time  to  the  boys. 
He's  a  good  father,  loves  his  children,  loves 
to  be  around  them.  If  Robin,  Stephen  or 
Barry  is  sick  in  bed,  Bob  will  keep  the 
young  invalid  occupied  by  playing  check- 
ers or  any  one  of  a  hundred  boys'  games. 

"He  also  spends  some  time  with  them 
watching  their  favorite  TV  shows — 
especially,  the  comedians,  like  Jerry  Lew- 
is, Red  Skelton,  George  Gobel  and  Danny 
Thomas.  It  just  so  happens,  of  course,  that 
these  are  the  shows  Bob  has  done  'live' 
and  filmed  commercials  on,  along  with  his 
'spots'  for  Robert  Montgomery  and  Perry 
Como.  Come  to  think  of  it,  I'm  not  sure 
whether  these  are  the  boys'  favorite  shows 
— or  Bob's." 

"What  do  you  mean?"  Bob  comes  quick- 
ly to  his  own  defense.  "Every  time  one  of 
our  filmed  commercials  hits  that  TV 
screen,  the  kids  shout,  'There's  Daddy!' 
Doesn't  that  show  their  interest?  Of 
course,  they  proceed  to  talk  all  the  way 
through  the  commercial,  but  I  feel  certain 
it  proves  something."  Then  Bob  adds, 
laughing,  "You  know,  I  actually  thought 
the  boys  were  interested  in  my  commer- 
cials on  The  Danny  Thomas  Show — then 
I  discovered  them,  one  day,  in  a  heated 
argument  over  Danny's  TV  daughter, 
Sherry  Jackson!" 

In  describing  Bob's  schedule,  at  home, 
Barbara  says,  "If  he's  not  with  the  boys, 
and  he  does  have  some  free  time,  Bob — 
like  every  other  do-it-yourselfer — will 
refinish  a  piece  of  furniture. 

"Bob  also  spends  much  free  time  on 
the  golf  course  and  fishing.  He  usually 
invites  Robin,  the  only  son  old  enough  to 
enjoy  going  along  with  him  on  these 
jaunts.  Though  Robin  doesn't  play  golf — 
yet — he  is  aware  of  the  fact  that  his 
seniority  has  privileged  him  in  this  re- 
spect. Robin  says  proudly,  "The  babies 
aren't  old  enough  to  go  fishing  and  golf- 
ing with  us.' " 

Occasionally,  like  other  husbands  and 
wives,  Barbara  and  Bob  go  out  dining  and 
dancing.  Barbara  says,  "I'm  reminded  I 
have  a  sentimental  husband — when  I  left 
him  overseas,  the  hit  song  of  the  day  was 
'I'll  Be  Seeing  You';  and  the  night  he 
proposed  to  me  they  were  playing,  'The 
Girl  That  I  Marry.'  Whenever  we  are  out 
together  and  we  hear  these  songs,  we  al- 
ways share  a  look  .  .  .  and  know  what 
the  other  is  thinking." 

Bob  is  truly  sentimental,  the  sort  of 
guy  who  not  only  carries  pictures  of  his 
family  in  his  wallet,  but  insists  they  be 
up-to-date  pictures.  He  doesn't  brag  about 
his  family,  though,  and  has  to  be  en- 
couraged to  pull  the  wallet  out  of  his 
pocket.  Bob's  real  luck  isn't  in  pictures 
or  pockets.  It's  in  his  heart— and  the 
home  he  shares  with  his  wife  and  sons. 


REAL  DOLLS 

in  exquisite  detail  up  to  4  inches!    , 

J  PENNY  EACH 


\^*» 


mj 


ing  P'eion'  of  *•'  ''£    A  p|ECE! 

for  only  $1  - '  Penny  Dancing  Dolls 

Baby  Dolls  -  N"?'.^-^  Do"S 
Costume  Dolls  -  Ballenna  D-lb_  ^^  Do|,$ 


fl"^ 


<? 


li 


you,  nl.».  or  I*.  <»••  <h  *  ""J  V,h  lh.m  .or 
,yov>,.,.M.9iH.S^«^;„m.Wh<„. 

tEAlBOUS  mad.  FUU  W»  fM 

*— •" ,1*T«.  V.H..91H... 

Ord.r  «  man,  »t»  •»  »•  r  „„„. 

/  „w.  .nam  ...  End...  *»  P'»«  2*  „.„  „,  you 
f  og.  and  handling  <«  •■*  <°° '  „,„« 

*   E.  31nd  St.,  N.  Y.  1*.  »•  '  '  d  th, 

J   Oollv  back  and  we 
A     money. 


0m  guarantee 

HERE  IS  WHAT  THESE 

DOUS  ARE  MADE  OF 

People  «.ln|  •"„'-?,'.•  sSh 
no!  be'lerK.  us  to  ask  what  our 
value,  wr'te  "*  ~ade  of.  Are 
100    Dolls    a™    made    o  „ 

the,  P»Par^THEHI  Each  and 
the,  ask.  "Fl™  "on  dolls  is 
ever,  one  of   our   i»  STYBENE 

""•-"•aVNTMCTIC 'RUBBER,  ex- 
and    ST  Win  *"V.  ,    true  <j,men- 

P.'"s,ve,iiZht.wdth-D»thi 

ist  breakage.  >™»  to 

ful  dolls! 


sM 


Send  $1.00  plus  25.  for  each  set  to  100  Doll  Co.,  Dept.  6311,  114  E.  32nd  St.,  N.  Y.  16,  N.  Y. 


In«*  HIGH  SCHOOLS 


No  classes  to  attend.  Easy  spare-time  train- 
ing covers  big  choice  of  subjects.  Friendly  \ 
instructors;  standard  texts.  Full  credit  iot\ 
previous  schooling.     Diploma  awarded.* 
Write  now  for  FREE  catalog  HH-52. 

WAYNE   SCHOOL    utiiiflilW) 

2527  Sheffield  Ave.,  Cnicago  14,  Illinois  > 


ANY  PHOTO  ENLARGE! 


TOYS  at 
WHOLESALE! 

Hundreds  and  hundreds  of  standard  toys  at 
tremendous  discount  prices.  Send  25c  for  large 
catalog,  refunded  on  your  first  order.  Dept.  2211 
WESTERN  STATIONERY,  114  E.  32  St.,  N.  Y.  IS,  N.  Y. 


HI  SHORTHAND  '" 


49 


Size  8  x  10  Inches 

on  DOUBLE-WEIGHT  Paper 

Samo  price  for  full  length  or  bast 
form,  troops,  landscapes,  pet  ani- 
mals, etc.,  or  enlargements  of  any 
part  of  a  group  picture.  Original  is 
returned  with  roar  enlargement. 

On  orders  of  2  or  more  we  will 
,  send  you  one  26c  Miniature  Por- 
_,J  trait,  size  4' x  6',  FREE.  Mail 
photo,  negative  or  snapshot  (any  size)  and  receive 
your  enlargement,  guaranteed  fadeless,  on  beau- 
tiful double -weight  portrait  quality  paper. 
C.  O.  D.'s  accepted  on  orders  of  2  or  more. 
Take  advantage  of  this  amazing  offer.    Send  your  photos  today. 

Professional  Art  Studios,  544  S.  Main,  Dept.  J7-P,  Princeton.lllinols 


FREE! 


Tense,  Nervous 

Headaches  Need 

This  Relief 

A  survey  shows  3  out  of  4  doctors  recommend  the 
famous  ingredients  of  Anacin  to  relieve  pain.  Here's 
why  Anacin®  gives  better  total  effect  in  pain  relief 
than  aspirin  or  any  buffered  aspirin: 

M^-  ACTS  INSTANTLY:  Anacin  goes  to  work  instantly. 
Brings  fast  relief  to  source  of  your  pain. 

■■^  MORE  EFFECTIVE:  Anacin  is  like  a  doctor's  pre- 
scription. That  is,  Anacin  contains  not  one,  but  a 
combination  of  medically  proven  ingredients. 

HI^P>  SAFER:    Anacin  simply  can  not  upset  your  stomach. 

■ES^»  LESSENS  TENSION:  Anacin  also  reduces  nervous 
tension,  leuves  you  relaxed,  feeling  fine  after 
pain  goes.  Buy  Anacin  Tablets  today! 


Famous  SPEEDWRITING  shorthand. 

words    per    minute.     No    symbols, 

machines:      uses      ABC's.      Easiest     to 

learn,   write   and   transcribe.   Low   cost. 

Over    350,000    graduates.    For    business 

and    Civil    Service.     Typing     available. 

35th  year.   Write  for  FREE  booklet  to:  ©  1957 


Dept.3ll-7,55W.42St.,NewYork36   (S 


WHITEN  DULL  DISCOLORED 
TEETH 

A  secret  of  stage  and 
screen  stars  for  years. 
This  is  the  dental  cos- 
metic used  by  most  of 
your  favorite  actors  and 
actresses.  Leichner  of 
London,  for  over  four 
generations  makers  of 
fine  theatrical  makeup 
have  now  released  this  wonderful  aid  to  a 
sparkling  smile  1  Leichner  Tooth  Enamel  Is 
guaranteed  to  cover  and  hide  any  dental  blemish, 
regardless  of  cause,  and  to  make  your  teeth 
sparkling  white.  This  completely  safe  cosmetic  is 
easy  to  apply.  You'll  be  absolutely  delighted  with 
the  results.  Your  friends  won't  know  why,  but 
they'll  notice  your  lovely  smile.  A  completely 
natural  effect,  and  not  a  flaw  will  be  visible  in 
your  teeth.  Satisfaction  guaranteed.  Just  send 
$2.00  with  this  ad,  or  your  request  for  Leichner 
Tooth  Enamel  to  GLA-MIN  Products,  Inc.  (sole 
U.S.  Agents),  Dept.  86,  114  East  32  St.,  New 
York  16,  N.  Y.  Remember,  only  $2.00  and  re- 
sults are  guaranteed,  or  your  money  back  I 


T 
V 
R 

75 


NEW  DESIGNS  FOR  LIVING 

Give  Smart  Hand-Made  Gifts  For  Christmas 


76 


7354 — Inspiring  devotional  picture — easy 
to  "paint"  with  simple  embroidery  stitches, 
colorful  thread.  Transfer  of  picture  16  x 
19    inches;     color     chart,    directions.    25$ 


7100 — Greet  guests  with  the  merriest 
"Merry  Christmas"  ever  in  this  gay  Santa 
apron.  Give  it  to  your  friends,  too!  Di- 
rections, embroidery  and  applique  trans- 
fers for  16-inch  long  apron.  25$ 

7329 — Bright  Eyes,  the  merry  clown,  is 
sure  to  delight  some  lively  tot.  He  takes 
lots  of  rough  treatment.  Use  a  Size  12  man's 
sock  to  make  him;  scraps  for  clothes.  Di- 
rections for  clown,  pattern  for  clothes.  25$ 

513 — Takes  just  a  short  while  to  crochet 
one  of  these  pretty  squares.  Join  squares 
for  a  scarf,  tablecloth,  bedspread — many 
large  and  small  articles.  Directions  for 
7-inch    square    in    bedspread    cotton.    25$ 


7098 


HUNGRY 
AS  A  BEAR 


FRISKY 
AS  A  PUP 


770 — Joseph's  Coat  is  a  fascinating  quilt 
to  make  in  many  colors.  Just  three  patches, 
repeated,  form  the  interlocked  design. 
Charts,  directions,  pattern  for  patches, 
yardage   requirements.  25$ 

7098 — Crochet  a  "flower  garden"  for 
your  wall.  Planter  is  done  in  unusual  para- 
sol design;  fill  it  with  artificial  blossoms. 
Directions  for  planter  15  x  10  inches  in 
heavy  jiffy  cotton  or  3  strands  of  string.  25$ 

544 — Brighten  kitchen  towels  with  these 
gay  animal  motifs.  Done  in  easy  six-to- 
the-inch  cross-stitch.  Transfer  of  6  dif- 
ferent  motifs.   6y2    x    7%    inches.   25$ 


Send  twenty-five  cents  (in  coin)  for  each  pattern  to:  TV  Radio  Mirror,  Needlecraft  Service,  P.O.  Box  137,  Old  Chelsea  Station, 
New  York  11,  New  York.  Add  five  cents  for  each  pattern  for  first-class  mailing.  Send  an  additional  25$  for  our  Needlework  Catalog. 


Double  Trouble 

(Continued  from  page  54) 
after  Ann  Bradford,  of  a  famous  pioneer 
family. 

Harriet  and  I  were  always  alike  as  two 
peas.  But  even  peas  aren't  identical.  I 
was  a  mite  plumper.  (It  was  pronounced 
"mighty"  plumper  by  Harriet.)  We  both 
had  chicken  pox,  but  it  left  me  with  a 
small  scar  on  my-  forehead.  We  wore 
bangs  as  children  and  people  would  come 
over  and  lift  our  bangs  to  see  which  twin 
had  the  scar.  Harriet  was  always  a  doll. 
She  would  say,  "You're  fatter,  but  I'm 
prettier.  I  didn't  get  a  scar."  Another 
word,  and  I'd  have  seen  she  got  one. 

I'm  only  joking,  of  course.  Being  twins 
is  very  handy.  You  only  need  one  friend 
between  you  to  jump  rope.  You  can  play 
casino  instead  of  solitaire.  You  don't  have 
to  borrow  a  neighbor's  kid  to  play  catch. 
If  you  broke  a  dish,  you  could  sigh  and 
exclaim  loud  enough  for  the  folks  in  the 
other  room  to  hear,  "I  wish  I  were  more 
like  Ann,  instead  of  being  clumsy  old  Har- 
riet .  .  ." 

We  were  terrifically  psychic,  and  still 
are.  We  could  read  each  other's  mind  and 
could  nearly  always  finish  each  other's 
sentence.  Still  can.  In  fact,  we  can  be 
separated  for  years  and  pick  up  a  con- 
versation at  the  exact  point  where  it  last 
broke  off.  This  isn't  so  easy,  when  you 
have  two  minds  without  a  single  thought. 
Once  we  were  parted  for  more  than  a  year 
and,  as  she  caught  sight  of  me  getting  off 
the  train,  she  said,  "But  then,  you  never 
give  a  wooden  nickel  for  my  advice — " 

"Hold  on,"  I  told  her,  "That's  not  fair,  I 
was  talking  last." 

"Oh?"  says  she.  "What  were  you  say- 
ing?" 

"I  was  saying,"  says  I,  "that  I  wouldn't 
give  a  wooden  nickel  for  your  advice  .  .  ." 

We  were  apt  to  be  critical  of  each  other's 
friends.  Harriet  had  several  chums  that 
I  couldn't  see  for  sour  apples.  Sour  ap- 
ples were  my  chums,  according  to  Har- 
riet. I  was  particularly  jealous  of  her 
skill  at  climbing  trees.  She  could  shinny 
up  a  tree  faster  than  a  fly  with  a  flea  in 
his  ear.  But  we  were  both  great  tomboys. 
We  were  the  only  girls  in  junior  high  the 
boys  would  play  football  with  (it  has  just 
occurred  to  me  that  they  may  have  thought 
we  were  boys).  I  was  definitely  better 
than  Harriet  in  football.  She  said  it  was 
because  I  was  better  padded,  and  she  didn't 
mean  my  uniform. 

That's  a  twin  for  you,  all  right.  Har- 
riet had  one  rule  she  swore  by.  When  she 
was  up  for  punishment,  she  simply  said 
she  was  me.  When  I  was  up  for  a  gift,  she 
also  said  she  was  me.  When  I  said  I  was 
me,  I  got  spanked  for  lying.  It  was  things 
like  this  that  made  me  want  to  be  her. 

Dad  was  an  engineer  for  General  Elec- 
tric in  Erie,  Pennsylvania,  where  the  fam- 
ily moved  when  I  was  three.  He  took  a 
scientific  tack  with  us.  (If  this  were  Har- 
riet writing,  she'd  say  "to"  us.  Anyway, 
we  both  agreed  it  felt  like  a  tack.)  Dad 
once  referred  to  the  "second  law  of  thermo- 
dynamics." Mother  asked,  "When  did  they 
repeal  the  first  one?"  Mother  had  a 
marvelous  philosophy.  "It  might  never 
happen,"  she  used  to  say,  "so  why  worry?" 
When  it  did  happen,  she  used  to  say,  "Well, 
it's  too  late  now,  so  why  worry?" 

If  there  were  any  problems  in  the  fam- 
ily, Harriet  and  I  never  knew  about  them. 
Mother  and  Dad  always  solved  them  in 
private.  Harriet  and  I  took  a  dim  view  of 
this.  We  felt  the  public  had  a  right  to  know 
about  everything.  We  filled  the  Erie  air- 
waves with  a  constant  exchange  of  "You 
did,"  "You  didn't,"  "I  dass,"  "You  dassn't." 

We  had  what  we  fondly  called  a  "twin 
kiss."  And  we  bestowed  same  liberally 
on  all  within  reach  of  our  wet  little  lips. 


GETONAQUIZSHOW 


. . .  and  win! 


How  would  you  like  to  win  $100,000 — 
$64,000  or  even  $5,000  on  one  of  the 
popular  Quiz  programs.  No  such  luck 
you  say.  But  don't  underestimate  your 
chances  of  becoming  a  contestant.  When 
opportunity  knocks  (and  the  important 
thing  is  that  you  can  help  opportunity 
to  knock  if  you  know  how)  you  must  be 
ready. 

Millions  of  dollars  are  given  away  on 
quiz  shows,  yet  nothing  has  been  writ- 
ten to  tell  you  how  to  become  a  con- 
testant. Nothing  has  been  written  to 
give  you  tips  on  how  to  win.  But  now, 
in  his  brand  new  guide,  Joe  Kane,  the 
man  who  writes  the  questions  for  Break 
The  Bank,  tells  you  exactly  what  you 
want  to  know  about  Quiz  shows. 

Here  is  your  opportunity  to  get  expert 
help  from  the  foremost  authority  on  Quiz 
programs!  Here  is  your  chance  to  get 
behind-the-scenes  and  see  exactly  how 
a  Quiz  show  works! 

For  instance,  do  you  know  how  contest- 
ants for  Quiz  shows  are  selected?  Do  you 
know  why  one  person  is  selected  and  why 
another  one  equally  acceptable  is  re- 
jected? Do  you  know  the  correct  way 
to  fill  out  a  contestant's  questionnaire? 
These  and  hundreds  of  other  questions 
are  completely  covered  in  this  guide. 


High  School  Course 

at  Home 


Many  Finish  in  2  Years 

I  Go  as  rapidly  as  your  time  and  abilities  permit.  Course 
I  equivalent  to  resident  school  work  —  prepares  for  college 
I  entrance  exams.  Standard  H.  S.  texts  supplied.  Diploma. 

I  Credit  for  H.  S.  snbjects  already  completed.  Single  subjects  if 
I  desired.  High  school  education  is  very  important  for  advancement 
I  in  business  and  industry  and  socially.  Don't  be  handicapped  all 
your  life.  Be  a  High  School  graduate.  Start  your  training  now. 
i  Free  Bulletin  on  request.  No  obligation. 

AmericanSchool,  Dept.H853,  Orexal  at  58th.  Chicago  37 

BRAND  NEW  XMAS  GIFT 


for  Children 


only  $1.00 


Here  is  the  most  wonderful  Xmas  sift 
of  all — and  SO  Inexpensive!  Send  us 
your  favorite-  snapshot,  print  or  nega- 
tive, of  your  child,  family,  pet,  etc. 
We  will  enlarge  It  and  make  a  large 
8"  x  10"  life-like  JIGSAW  PUZZLE  so 
natural ,  so  touchingly  personal ,  It 
will  thrill  the  heart  and  capture  the 
Imagination  of  any  youngster.  Your 
choice  of  beautiful  black  and  white 
JIGSAWS  for  only  SI. 00  or  gorgeous 
hand-colored  only  SI. 50!  Send  money 
or  order  C.O.D.  Your  picture  returned 
Immediately  with  puzzle.  Money-back 
guarantee.  SPECIAL!  Photo  Xmas 
Cards,  your  name  printed  FREE  on 
„.    .  .   each — a5     for    »l-00.     50    for    SI. 75, 

75   for   $2.50,    with   envelopes.    Postpaid.    From   negative 
or  picture.   Order  TODAY. 

AMERICAN    STUDIOS,    Dept.2411 
1 14  East  32  St.,  New  York  16,  N.  Y. 


ENLARGEMENT 

OF  YOUR  FAVORITE  PHOTO  OR  NEGATIVE 

Just  to  get  acquainted  we  will 
make  you  a  FREE  professional  silk 
finish  5x7  enlargement  of  your 
favorite  photo  or  negative.  Please 
include  color  of  hair,  eyes  and 
clothing  for  prompt  information 
on  our  bargain  offer  for  having 
your  enlargement  beautifully  hand 
colored  in  oil  and  mounted  in  a 
handsome  frame.  Please  enclose  10<S  for  handling 
and  mailing.  Limit  2.  If  you  do  not  wish  your  en- 
largement hand  colored  a  black  and  white  enlarge- 
ment will  be  mailed  with  your  original.  We  will  pay 
$100  for  a  photo  selected  bi-monthly  to  be  used  in 
our  advertising.  Offer  is  limited  to  U.S.A.  only. 
Send  your  favorite  photos  or  negatives  today! 
HOLLYWOOD  FILM  STUDIOS.  Dept.  D-17 
7021     Santa    Monica    Blvd.,    Hollywood    38,    Calif. 


ONLY  50* 

Be  prepared  to  win 
as  much  money  as 
possible.  Read  chap- 
ter headings  listed 
here  —  and  bear  in 
mind  that  these  are 
only  a  part  of  the  con- 
tents of  this  helpful 
guide.  Whether  you 
attend  Quiz  shows  or 
get  called  on  the  tele- 
phone— this  booklet  is 
packed  with  priceless 
information  for  you. 
Get  your  copy  while 
supply  lasts.  Only  50tf. 


PARTIAL  CONTENTS 

How  to  Obtain  Tick- 
ets •  The  Admission 

•  The  Best  Seats  • 
The  Warm-Up  • 
Your  Appearance  • 
How  Contestants  are 
Selected  •  The  Pre- 
Show  Interview  • 
Why  Certain  Con- 
testants are  Select- 
ed •  City  vs.  Urban 
Contestants  •  How 
To  Fill  Out  the 
Questionnaire  •  The 
Write-in  Contestant 

•  The  Home  Con- 
testant •  The  Tele- 
phone Winner  •  Is 
Stage-fright  Serious 

•  Kind  of  Quiz 
Shows  •  Picking  the 
Category  •  Which 
Quiz  Show  is  Best  • 
Types  of  Questions 

•  How  Questions 
Are  Prepared  • 
Books  To  Study  • 
The  Come-Back 
Contestant  •  When 
To  Stop  •  Who  Sees 
the  Questions  •  The 
Income  Tax  •  The 
Emcee  •  How  Hon- 
est are  Quiz  Shows? 


BARTHOLOMEW  HOUSE.  INC.. Dept.  WG-1157  < 
205  E.  42  St.,  New  York  17.  N.  Y. 

Send   me   postpaid   a   copy   of   HOW   TO 
WIN    ON    QUIZ    SHOWS.    I    enclose    50c. 


NAME 

Please  Print 


STREET. 


CITY STATE. 


Bladder'Weakness' 

If  worried  by  "Bladder  Weakness"  (Getting  Up 
Nights  or  Bed  Wetting,  too  frequent,  burning  or 
itching  urination)  or  Strong  Smelling,  Cloudy 
Urine,  due  to  common  Kidney  and  Bladder  Irri- 
tations, try  CYSTEX  for  quick  help.  30  years  use 
prove  safety  for  young  and  old.  Ask  druggist  for 
CYSTEX  under  guarantee  of  money-back  if  not 
satisfied.  See  how  fast  you  improve. 

BUNIONS  W, 

Doctor's  New  Fast  Relief 
Of  Soft  Latex  Foam 

You    never   tried    any- 
thing so  wonderful  for  ' 
Bunions    or     Enlarged 
Joints   as  the  new  Dr. 

ScholPs  Bunion  Shield  of  soft,  cushioning  Latex 
Foam.  Fits  over  and  around  the  toe.  Stops  painful 
shoe  friction,  lifts  pressure.  Flesh  color,  washable. 
Men's  and  women's  sizes,  Small,  Medium,  Large. 
$1.50  each.  If  not  obtainable  locally  at  your  Drug, 
Shoe  or  Dept.  Store,  send  price  with  pencil  outline  of 
foot  to  DR.  SCHOLL'S  Inc.,  Dept-  B6,  Chicago  10,  III. 


PSORIASIS 


/ 


MAKE  THE  ONE 

SPOT! 

TEST. 


(SCALY    SKIN    TROUBLE! 

DGRmOIL 


TRY  IT  YOURSELF  no 

matter  how  long  you  have 

suffered.  Write  (or  FREE 

book  on  Psoriasis  and 

DERMOIL.Send  lOe 

for  trial  bottle  to  make 

our  "One  Spot  Test". 


Se*u/ffor 

yGENEROUS 

TRIAL 


Don't  be  embarrassed 
with  Psoriasis,  the  ugly, 
scaly  skin  disease.  TRY 
dermoil.  Amazing  re- 
sults reported  by  many 
grateful  users  for  24 
years.  With  DERMOIL  It 
Is  possible  that  ugly  scaly  patches 
on  body  or  scalp  may  be  gradually  removed  and  the  an- 
noying itching  relieved,  while  the  skin  becomes  pliable 
and  soft  as  the  redness  is  reduced.  Many  doctors  use  the 
non-staining  Dermoil  formula.  Must  give  definite  benefit 
or  money  back.  Sold  by  leading  Drug  stores. 
Write  today  LAKE  LABORATORIES,  Dept.  3704 

Box  3925.  Strathmoor  Station,  Detroit  2  7,  Mich. 


T 
V 
R 

77, 


In  time  we  got  to  know  our  own  power 
and  people  had  to  pay  off  so  we'd  lay  off. 

To  break  up  our  closely  intertwined  na- 
tures— Mother  had  read  a  book  which 
said  this  was  not  practical  to  meet  the  in- 
dividual hazards  of  life — I  was  sent  to  the 
University  of  Michigan  a  whole  year  be- 
fore Harriet.  She  vowed  it  was  a  plot  to 
make  her  look  stupid.  This  tickled  my 
fancy — until  I  realized  that,  if  she'd  look 
stupid,  so  would  I. 

I  majored  in  pre-med  for  two  years. 
Doctoring  fascinated  me.  I  guess  I  was 
a  cut-up  from  the  first.  Harriet  held  a 
loftier  aim  in  life.  She  was  dedicated  to 
restoring  the  old  lost  glories  of  the  legiti- 
mate theater.  She  took  the  liberal  arts 
course,  majoring  in  dramatics.  We  were 
thrilled  at  the  idea  of  emerging  as  the 
Davis  Sisters — stars  of  theater  and  amphi- 
theater. 

Our  change-over  came  in  my  junior 
year.  Our  brother  Evans,  then  the  lead 
dancer  with  the  national  company  of 
"Oklahoma,"  came  to  Chicago.  We  were 
very  proud  of  him,  and  we  journeyed  to 
the  windy  city  to  see  him.  Each  night  after 
the  show,  Evans  took  us  around  to  meet 
members  of  the  company.  Sometimes  we 
went  out  together  for  a  sandwich  and  cof- 
fee. I  adored  them  all,  the  singers,  the 
dancers,  the  stage  hands,  the  works.  I  went 
ga-ga  over  the  comradery,  the  fun,  the 
color,  the  activity,  the  pre-curtain  jitters 
and  the  after-curtain  exaltation  and  ex- 
haustion. To  my  amazement,  Harriet  was 
not  with  me  in  this.  She  had  suddenly 
cooled  on  the  entire  proposition.  She 
seemed  to  enjoy  the  idea  of  the  theater  a 
good  deal  more  than  the  reality.  Where  I 
luxuriated  in  the  sweat  and  greasepaint, 
she  recoiled.  By  then,  she  had  met  Perry 
Norton,  a  student  with  ideas  on  sociology 
and  city  planning.  She  felt  she  was  in  love 
with  him,  but  she  was  not  sure  he  would 
understand  the  theatrical  way  of  life.  "I'm 
not  sure  I  understand  it  myself  anymore," 
she  would  complain. 

Back  at  college,  neither  one  of  us  could 
settle  down  to  work.  We  were  both  dis- 
satisfied with  what  we  were  doing.  Har- 
riet kept  talking  about  the  concerns  of 
marriage,  homemaking,  raising  children, 
building  security.  All  I  could  talk  about 
was  the  glamour  of  the  stage  and  of  the 
people  of  the  stage. 

One  night  Harriet  said,  "Remember 
when  we  were  fourteen?  You  said  you 
wanted  to  marry  a  nice  man  with  a  lot  of 
brains  and  -live  in  a  quiet  college  town  and 
have  three  or  four  kids?"  I  gave  a  laugh 
that  was  decidedly  weak.  "Well,  you  said 
you  were  going  to  be  the  next  Sarah  Bern- 
hardt," I  retorted.  She  gave  an  even 
weaker  laugh.  "If  Harry  asks  me,"  she 
said,  "I'm  going  to  say  yes  and  devote  my- 
self to  raising  a  family  to  be  proud  of." 
The  next  day  I  dropped  my  pre-med 
course  and  acquired  a  fine  chest  tone  and 
a  broad  "A."  I  was  going  to  be  the  next 
Sarah  Bernhardt.  In  this  respect,  Harriet 
and  I  were  alike,  too.  Neither  one  of  us 
became  the  next  Bernhardt. 

But  we  did  switch  roles.  It  was  Har- 
riet who  married  a  nice  man  with  brains 
and  lived  in  a  college  town  and  is  raising 
three  wonderful  children.  True  to  the 
family  tradition,  one  of  them  is  named  Ann 
Davis  Norton  for  you-know-who.  Latest 
news  from  them  is  surrounded  by  an  aura 
of  adventure.  Perry  is  taking  the  family 
with  him  to  Bangkok,  Thailand,  in  connec- 
tion with  his  work  as  a  city  planner. 

On  the  other  hand,  I  left  college  and  im- 
mediately jumped   to  Cleveland,  where   I 
lent  my  talents  to  the  Cain  theater  for  a 
_    season  of  summer  stock.    They  returned 
V    the  loan  after  a  while  and  I  then  lent  my 
fi    talents  to  the  Erie  Playhouse  for  a  year. 
That's  my  advice  to  young  players.    Don't 
wait  to  be  asked  before  lending  your  tal- 
78 


ents,  and  never  call  in  the  loan  until  re- 
quested. At  Erie  Playhouse,  I  had  varied 
roles,  from  teen-age  harridans  to  simper- 
ing grandmas.  A  poet  once  said  that  Helen 
of  Troy  had  a  face  that  defied  time.  I 
guess  mine  does,  too.  There's  nothing  I'd 
have  liked  more,  in  those  days,  than  one 
of  those  Alec  Guinness  parts  where  I  could 
play  grandmother,  mother  and  child  all  at 
once. 

In  1949,  after  Father  retired,  we  decided 
to  find  a  wider  world  deserving  of  my  pe- 
culiar gifts,  and  we  took  off  for  California. 
Thus  began  a  saga  that  needs  a  better  pen 
than  mine.  We  packed  a  station  wagon 
with  personal  belongings,  a  tent,  and  a  few 
cans  of  Sterno  to  cook  with,  and  boldly  set 
forth  across-country.  I  got  to  be  the  best 
tent-pitcher  this  side  of  the  Pecos  and 
could  set  one  up  in  nothing  flat.  We  were 
in  a  saving  mood.  In  plain  words,  we  had 
only  a  little  money,  which  we  were  in  no 
mood  to  waste  on  restaurants  and  motels. 
We  met  no  Indians,  gunslingers  or  buffalo. 
But  we  were  scared  plenty  by  a  succession 
of  jackrabbits,  kangaroo  rats  and  plain  old 
pussycats.  Once  we  were  nearly  drowned 
when  our  tent  collapsed  during  a  rain 
storm.  We  were  frizzled  by  the  sun,  pep- 
pered by  the  sand  and  blasted  by  the  wind. 
I  don't  think  I'll  ever  enjoy  a  Western 
again.  Its  fun  to  be  a  pioneer — once.  Aft- 
er that,  you  asked  for  it. 

Mother  and  Dad  had  heard  about  the 
San  Joaquin  Valley.  Mother  said  it 
sounded  so  romantic.  Dad  had  a  hundred 
well-chosen  scientific  reasons  for  settling 
there.  All  I  wanted  was  a  barn  that 
looked  like  a  theater.  I  finally  found  one 
— the  Barn  Theater  in  Porterville.  Three 
of  the  most  wonderful  years  of  my  life 
were  spent  there.  I  did  everything  they'd 
let  me  do — acting,  directing,  collecting 
tickets,  making  off-stage  noises.  .  .  . 

r  rom  there,  I  traveled  down  the  coast  to 
Monterey  and  joined  the  Wharf  Theater 
for  a  spell.  By  then,  theater  was  in  my 
blood,  but  good.  The  only  trouble  was 
that  my  blood  was  getting  kind  of  thin 
from  dieting.  This  is  a  thing  with  me.  I 
always  diet  when  my  paychecks  are  low. 
On  occasions,  my  paychecks  were  fair. 
That's  when  I  chuckled  sneakily  and 
hoarded  every  dime  I  could  for  the  mo- 
ment. The  big  moment  was  when  I'd 
march  into  Hollywood  and  sweep  the  town 
off  its  feet.  I'm  still  waiting  for  that  mo- 
ment.   No  town  is  going  to  outwait  me. 

In  Hollywood,  I  lived  for  about  a  year 
and  a  half  at  the  Studio  Club.  I  was 
anxious  to  make  a  dent  in  the  industry,  and 
I  did.  Only  the  dent  was  in  my  head  from 
banging  it  against  closed  doors.  Just  to 
prolong  the  agony,  I  got  three  days'  work 
in  three  different  pictures.  I  was  an  extra 
in  the  first,  and  can't  even  recall  its  name. 
The  other  two  were  "Strategic  Air  Com- 
mand" and  "A  Man  Called  Peter."  No- 
body can  say  I  haven't  been  in  the  best. 

Looking  back  on  the  course  of  events,  I 
can  see  I  was  luckier  than  most.  I  had  my 
share  of  trouble  and  heartache,  but,  as  my 
mother  used  to  say,  "It's  too  late  now,  so 
why  worry?"  I'd  rather  forget  and  enjoy 
the  prospects  of  the  future.  I  really  have 
nothing  to  complain  about.  I  got  here  in 
July  and,  by  the  following  September,  I 
had  my  own  apartment  and  a  job  on  The 
Bob  Cummings  Show.  The  once-in-a- 
hundred  had  happened.  Good  fortune 
claimed  me  for  its  own. 

The  break  came  rather  suddenly.  I  was 
appearing  in  some  sketches  at  Cabaret 
Concert,  a  small  showcase  for  talent  in 
Hollywood.  Bob  Walker  of  the  McCadden 
Corp.  staff — it's  on  their  lot  The  Bob  Cum- 
mings Show  is  filmed — happened  to  be 
looking  for  a  comedienne.  A  comedienne 
is  a  funny  lady,  and  ladies  do  not  like  to 
admit  they  are  funny,  so  comediennes  are 
as  tough  to  find  as  horse-cars  in  a  modern 


city.  Be  that  as  it  may,  Bob's  eyes  (bless 
them!)  chanced  to  light  on  me.  Briefly, 
when  he  came  back  to  see  me,  I  thought 
I  had  made  a  conquest.  Well,  well,  I 
thought,  but  where's  the  candy  and  flow- 
ers? 

He  began  auspiciously  enough.  "Miss 
Davis,"  he  said,  "I  like  your  face." 

"Well,  gee,  gosh,"  I  said,  turning  in  my 
toe  bashfully.  It  is  actually  breathtaking 
how  eloquent  I  can  get,  if  I  put  my  mind 
to  it. 

"It's  the  kind  of  face — "  he  paused  to 
ponder,  and  I  threw  myself  into  a  more 
alluring  pose — "it's  the  kind  of  face  that 
can  make  people  laugh." 

At  this,  I  had  a  sequence  of  thoughts 
that  can  only  be  expressed  with  blank 
spaces,  asterisks  and  exclamation  marks. 
I  drew  myself  to  my  full  height  and  de- 
livered the  retort  proper.  "Oh,  yeah?" 

I  was  at  the  studio  next  morning  at  10 
A.M.  sharp.  By  noon,  I  was  feeling  dizzy 
with  hunger,  thirst,  tension  and  waiting. 
At  2  P.M.,  there  was  no  doubt  about  it.  I 
was  dizzy.  I  had  landed  the  job!  On 
January  2,  1955,  I  went  on  the  show  for 
the  first  time. 

oo  here  I  am,  a  regular  feature  on  The 
Bob  Cummings  Show,  my  part  being  that 
of  Schultzy,  the  secretary  who  has  a  cou- 
ple of  man -hungry  hooks  out  for  her  pho- 
tographer boss — played,  of  course,  suavely, 
handsomely,  magnetically  (Mmmmm!)  by 
Bob.  Among  the  players  who  appear  reg- 
ularly in  featured  roles  are  Rosemary  De 
Camp,  as  Bob's  sister;  Dwayne  Hickman, 
as  her  young  son  whose  growing  pains  in 
matters  of  education  and  romance  involve 
Bob  in  some  merry  antics;  and  Kathleen 
Freeman,  who  plays  my  friend,  confidante 
and  chief  conspirator.  There  is  also  a 
steady  parade  of  lovely  young  models  of 
all  types  and  nationalities  who  wander  in 
and  out  of  the  studio  and  Bob's  hectic  life. 
All  the  members  of  the  company,  includ- 
ing the  office  and  technical  staffs,  are  won- 
derful people  .  .  .  wonderful  to  know  .  .  . 
wonderful  to  work  with. 

Having  spent  seven  years  in  little-the- 
ater work,  where  I  learned  the  cardinal 
rule  of  doing  it  yourself  if  you  wanted  to 
get  it  done,  I  know  this  must  be  fame. 
What  else  can  it  be,  when  I  can  blithely 
turn  to  the  prop  man  and  warble,  "Hey, 
Charlie,  dah-ling  .  .  .  where  in  the  world 
my  deah,  is  that  crosseyed  parrot  the 
script  calls  for?"  Such  pretty  courtesies 
are  certain  to  endear  one  to  all  and  sundry 
— and,  if  a  sandbag  doesn't  drop  on  my 
noggin  one  of  these  days,  I'll  know  that,  in 
his  own  cantankerous  way,  Charlie  loves 


I  got  a  note  recently  from  a  youngster 
attending  my  old  alma  mater,  the  Strong 
Vincent  High  School.  She  wanted  to  know 
what  was  the  best  way  to  break  into  show 
business.  I  answered  as  best  I  could.  But, 
if  Itl  told  the  truth,  I  would  have  said 
simply,  "Get  yourself  a  twin  like  Harriet." 
(At  this  juncture,  it's  only  fair  to  point 
out  that  both  Harriet  and  I  came  by  our 
theatrical  urge  honestly.  My  mother, 
whose  full  name  is  Marguerite  Stott  Davis, 
appeared  quite  frequently  in  a  variety  of 
character  roles  at  the  Erie  Playhouse.  Casts 
were  generally  made  up  of  talented  ama- 
teurs with  one  or  two  paid  performers  but 
the  shows,  under  the  guiding  spirit  of  the 
playhouse  founder,  Harry  Vincent,  were 
full-fledged   professional   theater.) 

I'm  always  on  the  phone  with  members 
of  the  family.  My  bill  has  never  hit  lower 
than  seventeen  dollars  a  week.  I'm  think- 
ing of  buying  some  AT&T  stock.  Mother 
comes  to  visit  frequently  and  rolls  an  alert 
eye  over  my  little  rented  house.  I  don't 
know  whether  she's  trying  to  determine 
whether  I'm  an  honest  housekeeper  or  a 
femme  fatale  who's  been  entertaining  men. 
Father  is  now  seventy -three,  and  still  on 


. 


the  go.  He  came  to  California  to  vege- 
tate in  the  sun.  But  he  couldn't  stay  put. 
He  took  a  full  course  in  insurance,  passed 
■without  trouble,  and  is  now  in  full  cry  aft- 
er clients.  He  operates  out  of  Porterville, 
in  the  San  Joaquin  Valley. 

I'm  in  constant  touch  with  Harriet  and 
her  family.  She  told  me  a  cute  story  about 
my  namesake,  seven-year-old  Ann.  As 
soon  as  The  Bob  Cummings  Show  is  an- 
nounced, she  trots  over  to  the  TV  set  and 
puts  her  finger  on  my  name.  "This  is  The 
Aunt  Ann  Show,"  she  announces.  Then, 
turning  to  the  set,  "You  can  call  it  The  Bob 
Cummings  Show,  but  I  call  it  The  Aunt 
Ann  Show."  Her  brother  Arthur,  5,  and 
sister  Elizabeth,  3,  clap  hands  and  cheer 
her  on.  I  visited  them  two  years  ago. 
The  children  tuckered  me  out  in  a  day. 
What  a  routine!  Talk  about  the  toil  of 
show  business.  It's  not  in  the  same  league 
with  homemaking.  I  told  Harriet  that  she 
didn't  get  the  best  of  the  change-over. 
She  just  smiled  wisely.  I  have  a  feeling 
she  and  Perry  will  wind  up  with  eight  or 
ten  little  darlings. 

Harriet's  life  is  interesting  and  busy. 
She  sings  in  the  church  choir,  belongs  to 
discussion  groups,  works  at  leather  craft 
for  a  hobby.  When  either  Perry  or  the 
children  get,  as  the  saying  goes,  out  of 
hand,  she  arises  and  makes  a  dramatic 
threat  to  join  a  local  theater  group  and 
give  her  time  to  restoring  the  art  of  acting. 
She  never  does,  and  I  don't  think  she  ever 
would,  even  if  the  theater  beat  a  path  to 
her  door. 

Here's  why:  Last  spring,  she  was  out 
here  for  a  visit.  She  got  into  the  spirit 
of  things  pretty  quick  and,  when  we 
journeyed  out  to  Fresno  to  see  a  home 
show,  Harriet  removed  her  glasses  and  got 
a  big  bang  out  of  being  taken  for  Schultzy. 
Seeing  how  keen  she  was  to  step  before 
the  footlights,  we  all  got  a  notion  to  use 
her   on   The  Bob   Cummings   Show.    Bert 


French,  the  hair  stylist,  put  her  hair  up 
like  mine  and  it  was  set  for  both  of  us  to 
appear.  At  the  last  moment,  however, 
Harriet  decided  against  it.  When  we  were 
both  on  set,  everyone  was  fooled,  includ- 
ing George  Burns.  He  started  talking  to 
Harriet,  thinking  it  was  me.  When  she 
started  to  explain,  he  barked,  "I  suppose 
you're  going  to  tell  me  you're  her  twin 
sister — "  Harriet  laughed,  "I  was  going  to 
tell  you  that  she  was  my  twin  sister." 

In  reply  to  a  question  asked  me  very 
often,  I  can  truthfully  say  I'm  happy  play- 
ing supporting  roles.  Maybe  that's  my 
football  training,  because  I  was  always 
a  linesman.  The  parts  of  a  supporting 
actress  may  be  smaller  than  the  lead,  but 
they  are  usually  more  "unique"  and  so 
more  memorable.  Also,  she  doesn't  have 
the  entire  burden  of  the  play  on  her  back. 
There  is  almost  no  excuse  for  a  support- 
ing actress  to  turn  in  a  sloppy  job.  I'm 
happy,  my  older  sister  Elizabeth  is  happy, 
my  brother  Evans  is  happy,  my  miniature 
French  poodle  Bijou  (the  larger  size  in- 
timidates me)  is  happy,  and  even  my  little 
parakeet,  Westly  Weathercock,  is  happy. 

But  I'm  not  so  sure  my  twin  sister  Har- 
riet is  happy.  I  have  a  hunch  she  is 
humiliated  to  look  like  anyone  that  plays 
a  minor  role.  Sometimes  I  think  she  toys 
with  the  notion  of  throwing  another  hex 
on  me  and  resuming  her  Joan  Crawford 
personality,  while  I  am  relegated  to  the 
part  of  permanent  baby-sitter.  But  as  I 
have  explained,  this  is  only  a  passing  mood. 
I'm  willing  to  strike  a  bargain  with  her. 
If  she  will  refrain  from  giving  me  advice 
on  acting,  I'll  promise  never  to  tell  her 
how  to  raise  a  family. 

I  suppose,  when  all's  said  and  done,  I 
haven't  made  a  very  good  her.  Perhaps, 
after  all,  she  would  have  done  it  better. 

How  does  it  feel  to  be  a  twin?  Having 
been  one  always,  let  me  ask,  dear  people: 
How  does  it  feel  not  to  have  been  a  twin? 


This  Is  Your  Life — Ralph  Edwards ! 


(Continued  from  page  45) 
also    talked    to    Ralph    Edwards    himself. 

Let's  start  the  story  with  a  flashback  to 
a  scene  ten  years  ago.  At  the  time,  Ralph, 
you're  the  brilliant  creator,  producer,  em- 
cee of  Truth  Or  Consequences.  All  over 
the  country,  the  radio  program  has  created 
a  sensation. 

You  have  a  chance  to  get  a  very  fine 
layout  in  Photoplay,  the  leading  movie 
magazine,  with  one  of  your  favorite  actors, 
Bing  Crosby.  Photoplay  is  running  an  ex- 
citing series,  "Play  Truth  Or  Conse- 
quences with  Ralph  Edwards,"  in  which 
you  interview  a  big  movie  star  each  month, 
asking  him  interesting  personal  questions. 
For  every  question  they  fail  to  answer, 
they  have  to  pay  a  consequence. 

To  launch  the  series  with  a  bang,  Photo- 
play wants  Alan  Ladd  and  Bing  Crosby. 
You've  already  done  the  Ladd  layout. 
Crosby  is  next.  Bing  is  one  of  the  busiest 
stars  in  the  movies,  engrossed  in  starring 
in  one  of  his  biggest  productions  at  Para- 
mount. Every  lunch  hour,  he  has  to  go 
to  Decca  to  make  recordings. 

Consequently,  he's  as  hard  to  land  as 
the  toughest  marlin  for  which  you  ever 
fished.  Photoplay,  of  course,  is  doing  the 
fishing.  So  crowded  is  Bing's  schedule  he 
has  a  very  difficult  time  finding  a  spot  in 
the  day  when  he  can  pose  for  a  layout. 
Deadline  time  is  very  close.  Finally,  Bing 
finds  that  he  can  spare  twenty  minutes, 
just  before  his  shooting  for  the  day  begins. 
The  pictures  have  to  be  taken  then;  other- 
wise, it  will  be  very  difficult  to  fit  them 
into  the  production  schedule.  Bing  says 
to  Sue  Clark,  the  girl  who  handles  your 
public  relations,   "I   have  twenty  minutes 


to  give  to  this  layout,  from  9  A.M.  to  9:20. 
Please  ask  Ralph  not  to  be  even  one  min- 
ute late,  or  there  won't  be  enough  time." 

"Okay,"  says  your  faithful  public-rela- 
tions girl.  "He'll  be  there  at  nine  sharp." 
Half  an  hour  later,  her  phone  rings. 
"Sue,"  you  say,  "about  that  appointment 
with  Bing  tomorrow.  We'll  have  to  lose 
it.  Christine" — that's  your  oldest  daugh- 
ter, now  fifteen — "is  reciting  at  kindergar- 
ten tomorrow  morning,  and  this  I  can't 
miss  for  anything  or  anyone.  I'd  have  to 
be  about  forty-five  minutes  late.  We'll 
just  have  to  lose  the  layout.  Please  call 
Mr.  Crosby  and  tell  him." 

So  Sue  calls  Bing  and  explains. 

For  a  second,  Bing  explodes.  Then  he 
says,  "Ralph  is  the  smartest  man  I  ever 
met.  He  must  know  that  the  only  thing 
I'd  stand  still  for  is  something  like  this. 
Darn  it,  he's  right.  A  father  should  be 
there  listening  when  his  daughter  is  re- 
citing. Let  him  come  at  ten.  I'll  do  my 
best  to  get  twenty  minutes  for  the  layout." 

So,  Ralph,  you  get  the  big  layout  with 
Bing  in  Photoplay.  But,  much  as  you  de- 
sired that  publicity,  you  would  have  given 
it  all  up,  if  it  had  meant  missing  Christine's 
kindergarten  speech.  .  .  . 

For  that  is  the  kind  of  man  you  are, 
Ralph,  the  kind  you've  always  been.  You're 
nuts  about  your  ■work;  but  your  family — 
Barbara  and  your  three  children,  Lauren, 
Gary  and  Christine — come  first.  And  for 
kids — your  own  or  someone  else's — you'd 
make   almost  any  sacrifice. 

Only  recently,  Ralph,  Sue  booked  you  for 
a  portrait  sitting.  She  knows  she  can  al- 
ways count  on  you  for  such  sittings.  Sensi- 
bly, you  realize  that  they  are  part  of  your 


3  EASY  WAYS  TO 

Color  Your  Hair 

AND  MAKE  YOU  LOVELIER! 


NESTLE  COLORINSE 

Adds  glamorous,  sparkling  color-highlights 
and  glorious  silken  sheen.  12  colors.  29* 


NESTLE  COLORTINT 

Intensifies  your  own  natural  hair  color  OR 
adds  thrilling  new  color.  10  shades.  29* 


:lSfl 


NESTLE  COLOR  CREME  RINSE 
Colors  and  conditions  Gray  and  White  hair. 
Corrects  yellow  tinge.  6  colors.  29*,  75* 


COLORS  YOUR  HAIR 

WITHOUT  BLEACHING  or  DYEING 


T 

V 

R 

79 


job.  But,  that  day,  you  called  Sue  and 
said,  "I  hate  to  do  this  to  you,  but  I  can't 
keep  that  appointment  for  the  portrait  sit- 
ting. You've  booked  me  on  Harvard  Day. 
I  couldn't  possibly  put  Gary  in  the  position 
of  having  a  father  who  was  too  busy  to 
show  up  at  the  Harvard  Military  Academy 
on  Harvard  Day." 

But  it  isn't  only  for  your  own  youngsters 
that  you'll  give  up  portrait  sittings,  let  de- 
sirable publicity  go  hang,  or  even,  if  neces- 
sary, give  up  badly  needed  sleep  and  rest. 
.  .  .  Remember  the  time  when  you  had 
those  five  little  farm  children  from  Iowa 
on  your  show?  Your  show  fell  on  Hal- 
lowe'en night,  and  you  were  worried  that 
these  youngsters  might  miss  the  thrill  of 
wearing  Hallowe'en  costumes  and  of  go- 


ing "trick-or-treating."  So  you  asked 
someone  to  go  shopping  personally  for 
their  costumes,  and  to  make  them  the  most 
extravagant,  gayest  costumes  money  could 
buy. 

But  you  didn't  stop  there.  You  said,  "Be 
sure  somebody  takes  them  out  Trick-or- 
Treating."  Ordinarily,  Janet  Tighe,  the 
production  assistant — the  first  person  your 
guests  on  the  program  meet  in  Hollywood 
— plays  hostess.  So  you  wondered  if  she 
could  take  the  children  out,  then  realized 
she  couldn't,  since  she  had  to  be  hostess 
at  the  big  party  at  the  Roosevelt  for  your 
guests  who  had  been  on  the  program.  Sue 
said  she'd  be  happy  to  take  the  youngsters 
with  her,  along  with  her  son. 

You    thanked    her,    but   you    were    still 


T 
V 
R 

80 


Vote 


FOR  YOUR  FAVORITES 


Each  year  TV  Radio  Mirror  polls  its  readers  for  their  favorite  programs 
and  performers.  This  year,  for  the  first  time,  the  polling  was  begun  in 
the  July  issue  and  continues  until  the  end  of  the  year.  Results  will  be 
tabulated  after  December  31,  and  award  winners  will  be  announced  in 
the  May  1958  issue.  So  vote  today.  Help  your  favorites  to  win  a  Gold  Medal. 


TV  STARS  and  PROGRAMS 

Male  Singer 

Female  Singer   

Comedian     

Comedienne     

Dramatic   Actor    

Dramatic  Actress    

Daytime  Emcee 

Evening   Emcee 

Musical   Emcee 

Quizmaster     

Western    Star    

News  Commentator   

Sportscaster     

Best  New  Star 

Daytime   Drama    

Evening    Drama     

Daytime  Variety    

Evening    Variety    

Comedy  Program   

Music  Program    

Quiz  Program    

Women's   Program    

Children's   Program    

Mystery    or    Adventure    

Western  Program    

TV   Panel  Show    


Best  Program  on  Air   

Best  New  Program    |    Best  New  Program 

TV  Husband-and-Wife  Team 


RADIO  STARS  and  PROGRAMS 

Male  Singer 

Female  Singer 

Comedian     

Comedienne     

Dramatic   Actor    

Dramatic  Actress    

Daytime  Emcee 

Evening   Emcee    

Musical   Emcee    

Quizmaster     

Western    Star    

News  Commentator   

Sportscaster     

Best  New  Star 

Daytime    Drama    

Evening    Drama     , 

Daytime  Variety    , 

Evening    Variety    , 

Comedy  Program 

Music  Program    

Quiz  Program    

Women's   Program    

Children's    Program    

Mystery   or   Adventure    

Western  Program    

Radio  Record  Program   

Best  Program  on  Air   


Send  your  votes  to  TV  Radio  Mirror  Awards,  P.O.  Box 
No.  1767,  Grand  Central  Station,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 


11-5 


worried.  The  kids  hadn't  met  Sue,  and 
they  were  very  bashful.  You  were  afraid 
that  they  wouldn't  enjoy  their  Trick-or- 
Treating  if  they  went  with  someone  they 
didn't  know  ahead  of  time. 

Finally,  you  decided  that  there  was  just 
one  thing  to  do.  Though  you  were  almost 
completely  exhausted  after  putting  to- 
gether and  narrating  This  Is  Your  Life, 
you  were  determined  that  the  youngsters 
would  have  someone  whom  they  had  met 
and  knew  to  take  them  Trick-or-Treating. 
So  you  cancelled  all  your  other  plans  for 
that  evening,  gave  up  the  chance  to  take 
a  quick,  restful  snooze,  so  they  wouldn't 
miss  the  Hallowe'en  rituals.  You  person- 
ally  accompanied   them  everywhere.   .   .   . 

You're  a  very  sentimental  man,  Ralph. 
Not  sentimental  about  things,  as  a  rule. 
But  about  people  and,  occasionally,  about 
places.  When  I  asked  a  close  associate  of 
yours  what  your  favorite  treasure  was,  she 
promptly  replied,  "Barbara."  .  .  .  You're 
sentimental,  however,  not  only  about  your 
intimates  like  your  wife  Barbara,  but 
about  everyone  who  has  ever  played  an 
important  part  in  your  life  .  .  .  like  Miss 
Effie,  your  first-grade  teacher. 

But  let's  start  at  the  beginning,  Ralph, 
and  see  what  made  you  the  kind  of  per- 
son you  are.  .  .  . 

You  were  born,  Ralph,  the  youngest  of 
three  boys,  in  a  small-sized  white  farm- 
house with  green  window-facings,  outside 
Merino,  Colorado.  Merino  had  a  popula- 
tion of  only  169  people,  and,  as  you  some- 
times said,  three  dogs.  You  were  born  on 
a  sunny  morning.  .  .  .  How  well  Paul,  your 
oldest  brother,  remembers  that  morning. 
He  was  pretty  chagrined  with  you  at  the 
time — for,  instead  of  having  a  bed  in  the 
front  parlor  to  sleep  on  that  night,  he  and 
Carl,  your  middle  brother,  were  sent  off 
to  the  bunkhouse. 

He  is  ten  years  older  than  you,  and  re- 
members you  as  the  kid  brother  who 
tagged  after  him  whenever  he  was  going 
out  for  track.  You  followed  him  rather 
worship  fully;  but  he  was  so  much  older 
than  you,  he  would  deliberately  lose  you 
for  a  while,  and  then  come  back  later,  to 
pick  you  up  before  dusk  .  .  .  Today,  the  two 
of  you  work  in  close  harmony,  for  Paul  is 
the  executive  producer  of  your  daytime 
shows  and  in  charge  of  the  planning  of 
new  shows.  Paul  says  that  he  now  knows 
you  better  than  he  ever  did  when  you 
were  younger. 

Though  Paul  and  Carl  regarded  your 
birth  with  mixed  emotions,  your  mother 
and  father  were  unqualifiedly  happy  about 
it.  They  proudly  announced  the  facts  to 
their  friends.  It  may  have  taken  your 
mother  a  little  time  to  make  the  announce- 
ment, since  she  was  an  extremely  busy 
woman.  Only  recently,  Ralph,  you  re- 
ceived a  memento  you  will  always  treas- 
ure. It  came  in  the  mail  from  Mrs.  White 
in  Indianola,  Iowa.  She  had  received  it  in 
August,  1913,  from  your  mother.  The  card 
announced:  "There  is  a  new  visitor,  Ralph 
Livingstone  Edwards,  7  lbs.  6  ounces,  born 
13  minutes  after  9,  June  13,  1913.  He's  a 
dandy.  Won't  he  be  lucky!"  On  the  oth- 
er side  of  the  card  is  the  Benediction  from 
Second  Corinthians,  chapter  13:  "The  grace 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  the  love  of 
God,  and  the  communion  of  the  Holy 
Ghost,  be  with  you  all.  Amen." 

And  the  love  of  God  was  with  all  of  you, 
Ralph,  and  you  were  lucky.  Of  course, 
there  were  some  who  might  not  have 
thought  you  so  very  lucky,  because  the 
family  was  poor,  the  farm  small,  and  your 
father  had  to  fight  Colorado  blizzards  in 
the  winter  and  hot,  dry  spells  in  the  sum- 
mer to  wrest  a  living  from  the  farm. 
You  were  quite  young,  Ralph,  when  you 
learned  to  weed  the  garden,  hoe  the  beets, 
milk  the  cows,  and  act  as  a  janitor  in 
church  and  school,  along  with  your  two 
brothers. 


Still,  you  were  lucky  to  have  been  born 
the  son  of  two  fabulous  people  like  Henry 
Livingstone  and  Minnie  Mae  Edwards. 

Your  father,  fifty-one  when  you  were 
born,  was  a  fine,  debonair  man,  a  real  cat- 
tleman, the  best  roper  you've  ever  seen. 
Part  Welsh,  part  Scotch-Irish,  he  was 
slight  and  wiry,  and  very  active.  When 
you  were  only  about  five,  he  put  you  on  a 
horse  behind  a  saddle  and  taught  you  to 
ride,  flinging  up  one  arm  to  hold  you  safe 
on  Molly,  the  family  horse.  Molly  was 
really  a  very  faithful  animal,  even  though 
indirectly  responsible  for  that  very  slight, 
almost  invisible  scar  over  your  right  eye 
that  you  got  when  Carl  put  you  on  Molly 
at  the  age  of  three,  before  your  dad  had 
taught  you  how  to  ride.  You  fell  on  the 
railroad  tie  in  the  corral,  and  Carl  got  the 
lecture  he  deserved  about  not  turning 
three-year-old  boys  loose  on  a  horse,  be- 
fore they'd  learned  to  ride. 

Your  mother  was  German  on  her  father's 
side  and  American  clear  back  to  the  In- 
dians on  her  mother's  side.  In  spirit,  Min- 
nie was  a  pioneer  woman.  Before  her 
marriage,  she  had  driven  all  over  Colorado 
in  a  horse  and  buggy,  as  a  kind  of  travel- 
ing saleswoman,  and  also  as  a  collector  of 
money  for  a  collection  agency.  In  spite  of 
this  practical  background,  she  had  a  vivid 
and  powerful  imagination  and,  during  your 
early  boyhood,  used  to  tell  you  fantastic 
stories  that  stirred  up  your  own  latent 
imagination. 

When  you  were  about  ten,  Ralph,  you 
and  your  mother  moved  into  town  to  take 
care  of  your  grandmother,  and  later  your 
mother  took  care  of  the  local  creamery. 
Brother  Paul  was  away  at  college  then, 
and  your  father  and  Carl  moved  to  the 
homestead  about  six  miles  from  town,  to 
prove  up  on  their  claim.  Your  mother 
and  father  didn't  like  being  separated, 
and,  twice  or  three  times  a  week,  you  and 
your  mother  would  hitch  old  Molly  to  a 
buggy,  and  drive  out  to  the  homestead. 

It  was  on  one  of  the  visits  that  you, 
Ralph,  received  one  of  your  greatest  les- 
sons in  faith.  You'd  passed  the  farm  and 
gone  through  a  gate  when  a  terrific  hail- 
storm came  up.  The  hailstones  were  the 
size  of  golf  balls.  When  you'd  gone  one 
mile,  the  hail  really  poured  down. 

Your  mother  was  driving  Molly  through 
the  blinding  storm.  Molly  raised  herself 
on  her  hind  legs,  rearing  as  if  she  were 
going  to  come  back  into  the  buggy.  The 
buggy  shafts  came  up.  For  a  moment, 
Ralph,  you  were  terrified.  Then  your 
mother  said  calmly,  "God  will  take  care  of 
us."  And,  with  those  words,  she  gave 
Molly  a  crack  across  her  back.  With  the 
help  of  God  and  your  mother's  strong  bug- 
,gy  whip,  you  both  came  through  safely. 

.Eiven  in  those  days,  Ralph,  you  knew 
that  there  were  two  you  could  always  rely 
*on — God  and  your  mother.  In  coupling 
them  together  in  your  thoughts,  you 
weren't  a  bit  irreverent.  Didn't  they  both 
pour  love  upon  you — and  couldn't  you  be- 
lieve very  naturally  that  you  were  always 
safe  in  God's  arms  and  in  your  mother's 
care?  Your  earthly  father  could  always 
be  depended  upon,  too.  Before  the  end 
of  that  hazardous  trip,  he  met  you  at  the 
gate.  Seeing  the  storm  come  up,  he  had 
gone  out  looking  for  you. 

However,  as  a  boy,  you  learned  to  de- 
pend, too,  on  your  own  resourcefulness  in 
an  emergency.  About  the  time  of  the 
storm  and  buggy  incident,  you  encountered 
,  another  emergency  when  your  mother  and 
father  weren't  nearby.  .  .  .  Merino  had  its 
I  main  street,  a  couple  of  side  streets,  and 
I  an  alley  behind  the  main  street  leading  to 
la  pasture.  Every  day,  you  used  to  have 
i  to  go,  bucket  in  hand,  to  milk  a  cow  kept 
'near  Pawnee  Ditch.  You  used  to  take  the 
bucket  and  go  up  the  bridge  to  where  the 
|  cow   was   kept,   milk  her,   then  bring   the 


milk  back.  Each  time  you  would  walk 
terrified  past  a  big  Airedale  tied  in  the 
back  yard  of  the  house  next  to  yours,  by 
a  rope  just  long  enough  to  allow  the  dog 
to  come  to  the  edge  of  the  alley.  You 
have  always  loved  dogs,  but  you  were 
scared  of  this  one,  for  every  day  he  would 
snarl  at  you;  you  could  feel  his  breath  on 
your  legs,  and  your  childish  imagination 
would  paint  a  vivid,  terrible  picture  of 
what  might  happen  if  he  could  break  loose. 

One  particular  day  when  you  were  com- 
ing back  with  half  a  bucket  of  milk,  you 
suddenly  found  yourself  practically  on  top 
of  the  dog  in  the  middle  of  the  alley.  To 
your  horror,  you  discovered  that  he  had 
broken  the  rope,  and  was  now  free  to  go 
anywhere  he  pleased.  The  fact  that  his 
owners  had  always  thought  it  necessary  to 
keep  him  tied  up  seemed  to  you  to  prove 
that  he  was  really  dangerous.  You  would 
have  run,  but  you  had  heard  that  if  a  dog 
sees  you  running,  your  fear  may  make  him 
violent.  You  put  it  this  way,  "I  was 
afraid  if  I  ran,  it  would  be  the  end  of  me — 
or  at  least  of  my  pants." 

You  frankly  admit  that  for  the  next  few 
minutes,  fear  dictated  your  actions.  You 
let  a  dribble  of  milk  pour  from  your  bucket, 
and  the  dog  went  for  it.  You  dribbled 
your  way  back  home,  drop  by  drop,  to 
the  screen  door  of  the  house.  .  .  .  When, 
finally,  a  frightened  kid  of  ten,  you  reached 
the  door,  you  wondered  what  would  have 
happened  if  the  door  had  been  a  few  feet 
farther  away.  If  it  had  been,  you  would 
have  run  out  of  milk! 

I  ou  always  say,  Ralph,  that — next  to 
your  mother  and  father — the  greatest  in- 
fluence in  your  boyhood  was  Miss  Effie, 
who  was  your  schoolteacher  in  the  first, 
second  and  third  grades.  In  that  school- 
room, Miss  Effie  took  the  children  in  imagi- 
nation to  the  four  corners  of  the  world, 
though  she  herself  had  never  been  out  of 
the  state  of  Colorado.  She  gave  you  great 
vision  and  much  encouragement.  When 
you  wrote  a  composition,  she  would  say, 
"Ralph,  that's  very  good."  She  let  you 
produce  your  first  play,  with  four  lines 
and  two  actors. 

Years  later,  you  had  a  chance  to  pay  a 
great  tribute  to  Miss  Effie.  .  .  .  Remember 
the  day,  Ralph?  It  was  the  first  and  only 
time  anyone  ever  put  on  "This  Is  Your 
Life,  Ralph  Edwards"  in  public — and  it 
was  done  as  a  tribute  to  you  by  the  school 
in  Merino  you  had  attended.  That  day  in 
Merino,  you  put  Miss  Effie  on  your  show, 
Truth  Or  Consequences.  As  her  "conse- 
quence," you  sent  her  on  a  six-weeks' 
tour  of  all  the  places  in  Europe  she  had 
talked  about  when  you  were  a  child. 

And  that  day  in  1950,  when  you  show- 
ered honors  on  Miss  Effie,  was  the  day  the 
townspeople  of  Merino  put  on  their  own 
show  about  you  on  the  steps  of  the  old 
schoolhouse.  .  .  .  You  had  been  a  very 
red-headed  boy,  Ralph — and  let's  not  have 
any  nonsense  about  your  hair  having  been 
"auburn."  So  all  the  five  boys  who  rep- 
resented you  at  different  ages  were  red- 
heads— three  natural,  two  with  dyed  hair. 

One  of  them  presented  the  episode  of 
the  day  you  were  supposed  to  recite  one 
of  the  psalms,  one  Easter  morning  in 
church.  You  had  memorized  it  thorough- 
ly, line  by  line.  But,  when  the  time  came 
for  your  appearance  on  the  rostrum,  some- 
one thrust  a  lily  in  your  hand.  From  that 
moment  on,  you  were  a  dead  duck,  because 
you  didn't  know  what  to  do  with  the  lily. 
.  .  .  Another  boy  told  about  your  experi- 
ences at  the  creamery  where  you'd  worked 
with  your  mother.  .  .  .  The  oldest  child  in 
the  group  was  twelve,  and  he  waved  good- 
bye, just  as  you  did  when,  at  twelve,  you 
and  your  family  moved  to  Oakland,  Cali- 
fornia. 

So  let's  see  what  happened  to  you  in 
Oakland,  Ralph. 


Send  for  these 

CHRISTMAS 

Gift  Ideas 

FROM    THE    BLACK    FOREST    OF 
GERMANY 

for  only  $3.95 


with    lock    and    key.     Siz 

#34 

DO-IT-YOURSELF 

CLOCKMAKER'S 

KIT  Everything 
needed    to    build    a 
weight-driven, 
swinging-pendulum 
clock.    Face    color- 
fully  engraved  .  .  . 
shows    Black    Forest 
scene.   It's   accurate, 
and  a  child  can 
assemble  it.  Com- 
plete instructions 
included.   Size 
8"  x  6"  $3.95 


4W 


federal  tax 
and  parcel 
post  included 

#44-M 
MUSICAL  BANK 

Hand  made  and 
colorfully   dec- 
orated.  Drop 
coin   in    slot   and 
genuine   Swiss 
Music   Box    plays 
appropriate 
song.   A   delight- 
ful   way   to 
save!   Complete 
1    x    6'/2"    $3.95 


#6010 
GENUINE    JUNG- 
HANS  BOUDOIR 
CLOCK  Has  two- 
toned    alarm    which 
buzzes  softly  for 
o  few  seconds,  then 
rings  loudly!   Also 
second  hand  and 
luminous  dial.    Ivory 
case,    brass 
trimmed.    Size 
3%"  x  3%"     $3.95 


#312 

BLACK   FOREST 

CUCKOO    CLOCK 

30    hour,    weight-driven, 
swinging-pendulum 
movement.     Deeply    hand 
carved   and   painted. 
Cuckoos  every  quarter- 
hour.    A   once   in   a 
lifetime    buy!   Size 
8V2"  x  5"  $3.95 

MAIL  YOUR        f 
ORDER  TODAY I 


MER-TEX  MFG.  CO.,  INC. 
Dept.  T,   101    Fifth  Avenue 
New  York  3,  N.  Y. 


Please  rush  to  me  the  following  imported 
Christmas  Gifts  at  $3.95  each  {or  $15.00 
for  4)  postpaid,  tax  included.  My  re- 
mittance is  enclosed.  No  C.O.D. 


#44M.. 

.#34.. 

.  #6010...  #312... 

Street 

T 

V 

City... 

State 

R 

81 


T 
V 
R 

82 


r«*  Mo«le,n  Book  o»         S1«> 

CHILD  CiVRE 


224  pages 

fully  indexed 

written  by  three  doctors 

ANSWERS  THE  QUESTIONS 
MOTHERS  OFTEN  ASK 

ALLERGIES:  "My  little  girl  is  allergic  to  milk. 
Should  I   make  her  drink  it  anyway?" 

BED-WETTING:  "My  five-year-old  Tommy 
wets  his  bed  every  night.  Is  there  something 
I  can  do  to  help  him  stop  this?" 

CRYING:  "Should  I  let  my  baby  cry  or  should 

I   pick  him   up?" 

FEEDING:  "Now  that  Janey  is  two  months 
old,  when  can  I  start  giving  her  solid  foods?" 

INOCULATIONS:  "What  diseases  do  I  have 
my  baby  inoculated  against,  and  when  should 
these   be   given?" 

SEX  EDUCATION:  "How  can  I  answer  my 
little  boy's  questions  about  sex?  He  seems  too 
young  to  be  told." 

TONSILS:  "My  husband  insists  that  Bobby's 
tonsils  be  taken  out.  He  says  all  children 
need  that  operation.    Do  they?" 

A   Handy,    Easy-to-Read   Guide   Book   for 
Mothers  and  Mothers-to-Be 

Here,  at  your  fingertips,  is  the  latest  informa- 
tion on  infant  and  child  care.  Authoritatively 
written,  and  alphabetically  arranged  for  easy 
reference,  THE  MODERN  BOOK  OF  INFANT 
AND  CHILD  CARE  makes  a  valuable  gift  for 
mothers-to-be — an  indispensable  guide  for 
every  modern  mother. 

AT  ALL  BOOKSTORES— OR  MAIL  THIS 
COUPON   NOW. 

I ■ 

Bartholomew  House,  Inc.,  Dept.  WG 1 1 57 
205  E.  42nd  St..  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 

Send  me  a  copy  of  "INFANT  AND  CHILD 
CARE."  I  enclose  □  $1.00  (paper  bound) 
□   $2.00  (hnrd  bound). 


NAME. 


(Please  Print) 


STREET 

CITY STATE. 


l^ll-J 


Your  very  first  Sunday  there,  you  and 
your  mother  and  your  two  brothers  went 
in  search  of  a  church.  And  in  that  church, 
you  found  a  sort  of  second  home.  You 
sang  in  the  choir  there,  though  you  claim 
you  can't  carry  a  tune  in  a  bag;  you  wrote 
plays  for  the  church  and  performed  in 
them;  and,  on  Sunday  mornings,  you  did 
pantomimes. 

In  high  school,  you  were  an  honor  stu- 
dent. But,  as  you  got  toward  your  senior 
year,  you  began  to  take  more  and  more 
part  in  extracurricular  activities.  You 
were  writing  and  producing  plays  for  the 
school,  and  appearing  in  them,  too.  You 
were  the  yell  leader,  putting  in  lots  more 
time  on  student  rallies  than  on  studies. 
You  were  very  popular  with  your  fellow 
students.  In  fact,  you  were  so  popular 
that  you  were  elected  president  of  your 
student   council. 

I  he  very  next  day,  you  were  summoned 
to  appear  before  the  principal  and  the 
student  council.  Elated,  you  entered  the 
principal's  office,  expecting  to  be  con- 
gratulated. But,  instead,  you  were  con- 
fronted by  students  with  solemn,  unhappy 
faces,  and  your  art-appreciation  teacher 
was  sitting  there,  tears  streaming  from 
her  eyes.  You  couldn't  understand  all  this 
weeping.  Then  the  principal  said  very 
solemnly,  "It  is  the  unwritten  law  in  our 
school  that  no  boy  may  remain  president 
who  has  received  an  F  in  any  of  his 
studies." 

And  your  art-appreciation  teacher 
blurted  out,  between  tears,  "Oh,  Ralph,  I 
feel  so  terrible  that  I  did  this  to  you.  It 
wasn't  because  you're  a  poor  student.  But 
you  were  spending  so  much  time  on  extra- 
curricular activities,  I  thought  giving  you 
an  F  would  encourage  you  to  work  harder 
on  your  studies.  That's  why  I  did  it, 
Ralph.  I  never  dreamed  it  would  cost  you 
the  presidency."  You  were  so  popular 
with  the  students,  Ralph,  that  they  all 
went  on  strike  to  try  to  compel  the 
principal  to  reappoint  you  as  president  of 
the  student  council.  But  he  wouldn't.  .  .  . 
Ironically,  your  very  next  mark  in  art 
apppreciation  was  an  A. 

Honestly,  Ralph,  being  kicked  out  of 
the  presidency  is  the  only  real  hint  of 
failure  I've  been  able  to  find  in  your  life. 
Oh,  there  have  been  times  when  you 
struggled  hard  and  were  down  to  your  last 
dime — but  never  in  your  life  have  you 
been  fired  from  a  job,  once  you  got  it. 

You've  been  in  radio  and  TV  since  the 
tenth  grade.  You  got  a  job  on  Sundays 
for  KROW,  a  radio  station,  in  Oakland, 
standing  by  for  the  Tenth  Avenue  Baptist 
Church.  There  was  a  wonderful  minister 
there,  whose  speeches  were  so  impassioned 
they  shook  the  rafters.  If  his  sermon 
ceased  to  come  through  or  went  off  the 
air,  it  was  your  job  to  play  appropriate 
records.  When  the  volume  indicator  was 
not  moving,  showing  the  sermon  wasn't 
coming  through,  you  would  reach  for  the 
records  with  one  hand,  and  open  up  the 
mike  with  the  other. 

One  day  when  this  had  happened,  you 
said,  "Ladies  and  gentlemen,  I  regret  that 
our  program  from  the  Tenth  Ave.  Baptist 
Church  has  been  interrupted,  but  we  shall 
put  on  some  appropriate  sacred  music." 
So  you  reached  in  for  the  music,  and  the 
next  moment,  over  the  airwaves  blared 
the  words,  "Hold  That  Tiger!"  Since  the 
records  were  alphabetically  arranged,  the 
hotcha  music  was  right  next  to  the  holy 
music,  and  you  had  made  a  very  natural 
mistake.  For  the  sake  of  speed,  you  had 
automatically  put  on  the  record  without 
looking  at  its  title.  .  .  .  You  usually  con- 
clude this  story  by  saying  kiddingly,  "So 
I  went  to  San  Francisco."  Actually.  Sta- 
tion KROW  did  not  hold  your  mistake 
against  you. 

In   San  Francisco,   you  were   successful 


in  radio,  but  you  wanted  to  try  new  fields 
of  showmanship.  So,  when  you  heard  of 
a  role  in  a  Broadway  play  that  you  might 
be  able  to  get,  you  decided  to  go  to  New 
York.  .  .  .  When  you  left  Oakland,  your 
mother's  parting  words  were,  "Son,  go  to 
church."  This  was  your  whole  back- 
ground. Your  mother,  encouraging  you, 
showing  you  the  right  path  to  follow. 

So,  when  you  came  to  New  York,  one 
of  the  first  things  you  did  was  to  look  up 
the  Union  Methodist  Church,  commonly 
known  as  the  "Actors'  Church."  And  it  was 
a  lucky  thing  you  did.  For  you  found  not 
only  spiritual  sustenance  in  the  church, 
but,  when  you  were  down  on  your  luck 
and  living  on  Bernarr  Macfadden's  two- 
cent  meals,  you  were  mighty  grateful  for 
the  opportunity  to  sleep  on  the  church 
cots  for  twenty-five  cents  a  night,  and  to 
cook  some  of  your  meals  in  the  actors' 
kitchen  there. 

But,  even  with  food  and  lodging  pro- 
vided for,  you  had  very  tough  going  in 
New  York  for  a  while.  Your  funds  were 
so  low  that  you  had  only  one  presentable 
suit,  and  finally  you  wore  a  hole  through 
the  right  sleeve  of  the  jacket.  When  you 
auditioned,  you  used  to  try  to  stand  in 
such  a  way  that  you'd  be  able  to  cover 
the  hole  with  your  other  hand. 

After  three  months  of  struggling  and 
getting  nowhere  in  New  York,  you  began 
to  think  that  perhaps  you  had  taken  on  a 
town  that  was  much  too  big  for  you.  You 
wondered  if  you  should  have  remained  a 
bigger  frog  in  a  smaller  puddle.  .  .  .  But 
you  were  wrong.  One  day,  an  audition 
was  held  at  CBS.  There  were  sixty-nine 
announcers  trying  out,  and  you  got  the 
job.  And  this  in  spite  of  the  worn  sleeve 
you  tried  so  desperately  to  hide!  Some- 
thing about  your  voice  and  your  spirit 
enabled  those  who  were  auditioning  you 
to  rise  above  such  considerations  as  the 
lack  of  newness  in  your  clothes.  If  they 
saw  the  torn  spot  in  your  sleeve  they  ad- 
mired you  all  the  more  for  the  pluck  with 
which  you  conquered  temporary  poverty. 
You  became  a  very,  very  successful  an- 
nouncer. You  were  still  an  announcer, 
the  day  you  met  Barbara,  who  was  to 
become  the  heart  and  core  of  your  life.  .  .  . 
She  was  then  a  very  pretty,  wholesome- 
looking  but  radiant,  vibrant  freshman 
studying  child  psychology  at  Sarah  Law- 
rence College.  You  met  on  a  blind  date 
arranged  by  the  boy  you'd  driven  to  New 
York  with.  The  moment  you  saw  Bar- 
bara, you  tumbled  for  her. 


r  rom  then  on,  you  kept  planning  ways 
to  interest  her.  Learning  that  her  grand- 
father was  a  radio  fan,  you  began  pelting 
him  with  tickets  to  radio  broadcasts,  hop- 
ing Barbara  would  go  with  him  to  them. 
Grandfather  came  in  several  times  alone, 
but,  finally,  Barbara  couldn't  resist  any 
longer — and  went  with  her  grandfather  to 
a  Ben  Bernie  show,  one  of  the  shows  on 
which  you  were  the  announcer. 

You  hadn't  wasted  those  hours  when 
you  and  her  grandfather  were  left  alone 
with  each  other,  but  had  learned  a  lot 
about  his  granddaughter  from  him.  You 
courted  her  with  fervor  and  enthusiasm. 
And  she,  in  turn,  fell  in  love  with  you, 
and  finally  said  "yes"  to  your  marriage 
proposal.  You  were  married  on  August 
19,  1939. 

By  this  time  you  were  one  of  the  most  suc- 
cessful, sought-after  announcers  in  New 
York.  At  one  time,  you  were  announcing 
forty-five  radio  shows  a  week,  a  fantastic 
number  for  anyone  to  undertake.  .  .  .  But 
you  grew  restless.  Your  deep  love  for 
Barbara  made  you  feel  that  you  weren't 
spending  enough  time  with  your  wife. 
You  wondered  if  it  wouldn't  be  better  to 
be  responsible  for  one  show  on  radio,  in- 
stead of  doing  the  announcing  for  so  many. 

Besides,    your    deeply    creative    nature 


wouldn't  rest.  You  wanted  to  create  a  new 
show.  One  day,  you  suddenly  had  an  idea. 
In  church  and  at  parties,  when  you'd  been 
a  boy,  you'd  often  played  a  game  called 
"Forfeits."  You'd  be  blindfolded  and 
somebody  would  hold  something  over  your 
head.  You  had  to  guess  what  it  was,  or 
do  a  stunt.  ...  It  occurred  to  you  that 
this  game  might  make  a  very  good  radio 
show.  You  decided  to  call  that  show  Truth 
Or  Consequences. 

When  you  told  friends  about  this  new 
idea,  most  of  them  scoffed  at  you.  Alex 
Gruenberg,  director  of  a  radio  program 
on  which  you  were  then  announcer,  and 
now  producer  of  This  Is  Your  Life,  was 
appalled  when  you  told  him  about  your 
plans.  He  thought  you  were  mad  to  give 
up  a  lifetime  of  high-paid  announcing  for 
such  an  untried  venture.  "You're  out  of 
your  mind,  Ralph,"  he  said.  .  .  .  Disre- 
garding the  advice  of  friends  and  associ- 
ates, you  managed  to  sell  the  idea,  prepare 
the  show,  emcee  it  and  make  it  a  tremen- 
dous success. 

It  was  Truth  Or  Consequences  which 
was  eventually  responsible  for  This  Is 
Your  Life.  Through  your  extremely  suc- 
cessful program,  you  had  raised  millions 
for  the  American  Heart  Association,  the 
March  of  Dimes,  and  other  charities.  To 
raise  this  money,  you  created  the  first  of 
the  mystery-voice  contests,  like  "Mr. 
Hush,"  "Mrs.  Hush,"  and  "The  Walking 
Man."  General  Omar  Bradley  of  the  Re- 
habilitation Department  suggested  that  you 
could  help  paraplegics  and  their  relatives 
by  telling  the  story  of  a  paraplegic  on  your 
program. 

That  was  how  This  Is  Your  Life  really 
began  ...  as  part  of  the  Truth  Or  Con- 
sequences program.  You  brought  Law- 
rence Trantor,  a  paraplegic  at  Birmingham 
Hospital,    to   the   show.    Through   his   old 


basketball  coach,  his  mother,  his  twin 
brother  and  others  who  had  been  close  to 
him,  you  told  the  story  of  his  life.  You 
told  of  the  stray  bullet  that  had  ended 
his  services  to  his  country  during  the  war 
and  that  had  put  him  into  a  wheelchair, 
and  made  it  difficult  for  him  to  earn  a 
living. 

When  Lawrence  Trantor  first  appeared 
on  your  program,  he  was  a  depressed,  dis- 
couraged man.  But  you  buoyed  him  up 
with  new  hope,  by  giving  him  many  gen- 
erous gifts,  the  most  important  of  which 
was  an  expense-paid  year  at  the  Bulova 
School  of  Watchmaking  in  New  York.  Two 
years  later,  he  returned  to  Truth  Or  Con- 
sequences in  a  wheelchair,  pushed  by  a 
redheaded  girl,  his  wife.  After  months  of 
defeat,  he  had  found  the  courage  to  attend 
the  school.  .  .  .  When  you  told  him  that 
you  were  now  presenting  him  with  a  com- 
pletely equipped  jewelry  store  in  his  home 
town,  and  offered  him  the  key  to  that 
shop,  he  got  up  out  of  his  wheelchair  and 
walked  to  the  mike!  The  audience  stood 
up  and  bravoed. 

Here  was  the  greatest  inspirational  story 
you  had  ever  presented  .  .  .  and,  in  turn, 
it  inspired  you.  For,  after  that,  you  knew 
that  someday  you  would  have  to  put  on 
radio  and  TV  the  great  inspirational  stories 
that  the  world  seeks  and  our  hearts  hunger 
for.  ...  It  has  been  said  that  being  the 
son  of  Minnie,  who  always  wanted  to  help 
others,  you  can  do  no  less. 

Has  it  ever  occurred  to  you,  Ralph,  that 
your  story,  like  theirs,  might  inspire  many 
who  are  downhearted  and  downcast?  For 
yours  is  a  story  of  faith  and  a  mother's 
love  surging  through,  overcoming  material 
difficulties,  and  pointing  the  way  to  fulfill- 
ment. That  is  why,  Ralph,  we  have  chosen 
to  tell  your  story  .  .  .  the  story  our  readers 
will  never  see  on  This  Is  Your  Life. 


What  Have  They  Got  Against  Girl  Singers? 


(Continued  from  page  49) 
who  is  two  years  younger.  "But  when  she 
sang  .  .  .  wow!  She  has  the  intensity  and 
the  mature  quality  of  a  Teresa  Brewer  or 
a  Kay  Starr.  Yet  she  is  not  an  imitator. 
Her   sound   is   her   own." 

The  Victorians  had  a  sentimental  little 
phrase  to  describe  this  quality  in  a  young 
girl.  They  spoke  of  her  as  "standing  with 
reluctant  feet  where  the  brook  and  river 
meet."  In  Bonnie,  the  blend  of  naivete  and 
sophistication  is  charming.  Her  favorite 
colors  are  pink  and  blue.  She  still  collects 
stuffed  animal  toys  to  toss  across  the 
coverlet  of  her  bed  .  .  .  but  she  also  chooses 
as  her  favorite  automobile  a  pink  Thun- 
derbird. 

When  she  recorded  "Deep  Within  Me" 
and  "Kill  Me  With  Kisses,"  Victor  gave 
her  record  top  importance.  Carlton,  whose 
duties  usually  keep  him  studio -bound, 
decided  to  introduce  Bonnie  himself.  Said 
Joe,  "I  hadn't  taken  an  individual  artist 
out  on  a  disc-jockey  tour  in  ten  years,  but 
I  figured  this  was  the  time  to  get  a  girl 
singer  going.  Bonnie  has  a  star  potential 
for  television,  movies  and  the  stage,  as 
well  as  for  recordings." 

Their  tour  took  them  to  seven  major 
cities  and  for  Bonnie,  away  from  home  for 
the  first  time,  it  was  quite  an  initiation. 
Never  had  she  been  so  closely  chaperoned. 
In  each  city,  the  wife  of  the  RCA  Victor 
distributor  or  one  of  the  firm's  women 
employees  met  the  plane  and  remained 
with  her  throughout  the  visit.  But  never 
had  she  been  so  completely  the  center  of 
attention.  There  were  flowers  and  photo- 
graphs and  interviews  with  disc  jockeys 
and  reporters.  It  was  a  whirl  which  could 
turn  the  head  of  many  a  girl  and  tire  her, 
too,   but   Bonnie   went   through   it   like    a 


veteran.  Joe  reported,  "She  charmed 
everyone  she  met,  and  she  was  just  as 
fresh  and  pretty  and  vivacious  at  the  end 
of  nine  hours  of  such  work  as  she  was 
when  she  started  out.  The  kid's  a  trouper, 
and  I  believe  she  will  become  a  big  star." 

Decca  Records'  entry  in  the  glamour-girl 
sweepstakes  is  a  nineteen-year-old,  four- 
foot-eleven-inch  bundle  of  energy  who 
takes  her  professional  name,  Barbara 
Allen,  from  the  frail  heroine  of  one  of  the 
oldest  and  best-known  ballads,  but  in 
private  life  she  bears  a  closer  resemblance 
to  that  famed  sure-shot  charmer,  Annie 
Oakley.  The  blue-eyed,  dark-haired  girl 
loves  to  hunt,  and  her  .22  rifle  carries  a 
deadly  accuracy.  She  also  can  thump  a 
bass  fiddle,  twang  a  guitar  or  play  piano. 
"I  like  anything  that  lets  me  get  a  beat." 

Barbara  was  born  on  a  farm  near  Zuni, 
Virginia,  about  fifty  miles  from  Norfolk. 
In  her  family,  music  just  comes  natural. 
Her  father,  Elisha  May  Luter,  can,  in 
Barbara's  words,  "play  most  anything  he 
puts  his  hands  to."  Barbara  sang  duets 
with  her  cousin  "since  we  were  knee-high 
to  a  duck."  Her  first  audience  was  in  her 
country  church.  "I  was  the  only  one  who 
could  play  piano  and  fan  the  preacher  at 
the  same  time." 

Her  entertainment  debut  resulted  from 
the  frustration  of  another  ambition.  With 
her  cousin,  she  went  to  Washington,  D.  C. 
"We  had  it  in  mind  to  be  airline  hostesses, 
but  then  she  up  and  got  married  on  me. 
Well,  I  wasn't  going  to  let  myself  get 
licked,  so  I  went  to  Norfolk  to  sing  with 
Chuck    Bland    and    His    Chuck-a-Lucks." 

At  one  of  their  dance  dates,  the  bass 
player  from  another  band,  Albert  Wood- 
roe  Tunnell,  stopped  in.  Barbara  was 
not  impressed.    "I  didn't  like  him  a  bit  at 


anytime  . . . 
anywhere 

Toothbrushing  is  convenient  with 


Now,  whether  at  home  or  away, 
you  can  conveniently  brush  your 
teeth  three  times  a  day,  after  each 
meal  with  TOTE-BRUSH— the 
sure  way  to  fight  tooth  decay  and 
bad  breath. 

TOTE-BRUSH,  the  only  full-size 
folding  toothbrush  is  5"  long  with 
3  rows  of  the  finest  nylon  bristles. 
Unfolds  and  locks  rigid,  ready  for 
use.  New  "cigarette  pack"  size  case 
in  3-D  visual  styrene.  Fits  into  purse 
or  pocket.  Choice  of  assorted  pastel 
colors.  Tube  of  toothpaste  included. 
Available  at  drug,  department 
stores,  luggage  shops  and  $1 
beauty  shops  everywhere.  Only 


TOTE-BRUSH  Folding  Toothbrush  Kit 

Tote-Brush,  Inc.     •     Chicago  14,  Illinois 

Over  10,000,000  men,  women  and  children 

nave  the  daily  Tofe-Brush  habit 


Makes 

Pavements 

Feel 

Like  Cushions! 


D-'Scholl's 

BALL-O-FOOT 

Cushion 


You  Actually  Walk  On  Air! 

This   modern    miracle   of  /. 
walking  ease— Dr.  Sertoli's  !A 
Ball-O-Foot   Cushion  for  \    v — 
men  and  women— relieves 
pain, callouses, burning, ten- 
derness at  ball  of  foot.  The  cushion,  not  you, 
absorbs  shock  of  each  step.  Loops  over  toe 
—no  adhesive.  Flesh  color.  Washable.  Only 
$1  pair.  At  Drug,  Shoe,  Dept.,  5-10£  Stores 
and  Dr.  Scholl's  Foot  Comfort®  Shops.  If 
not  obtainable  locally,  send  $1.00  direct  to 
DR.  SCHOLL'S,  Dept.  77B,  Chicago  10,  III. 


T 
V 
R 

83 


the 

TOMMY 

SANDS 

story 

complete  with 
over  125  photos 


WILL  SANDS  REPLACE  ELVIS  PRESLEY? 

Don't  miss  this  exciting  picture-filled 
life  story  of  the  handsome,  talented 
Tommy  Sands.  Here,  for  the  first  time, 
is  the  complete  account  of  the  young- 
ster who  took  show  business  by  storm, 
the  full  story  of  his  fabulous  acting 
and  recording  success,  the  inside,  little 
known  details  of  Tommy  Sands  the 
performer  and  Tommy  Sands  the  hu- 
man being. 

TOMMY  SANDS 

Yours   at  all   newsstands — 35c 

If  your  newsdealer  has  sold  out, 
use  this  coupon 

BARTH   HOUSE,   INC. 

205  E.  42  ST..  NEW  YORK,  17,  N.  Y. 

SIRS: 

I  ENCLOSE  35c  PLEASE  RUSH  THE  NEW 
TOMMY  SANDS  BOOK  TO  ME. 


84 


NAME 

ADDRESS 

CITY ZONE....  ST  ATE. 


first.  I  thought  he  was  quite  a  square." 
Just  as  with  little  Miss  Oakley  in  "Annie 
Get  Your  Gun,"  there  was  a  period  when 
each  shouted  at  the  other:  "Anything  You 
Can  Do,  I  Can  Do  Better."  When  he  was 
called  up  for  Army  duty,  Barbara  found 
she  missed  him.  "Romance,"  she  says,  "was 
one  of  those  things  that  sneaked  up  on 
me."  On  August  12,  1956,  they  returned  to 
Barbara's  home  church  at  Zuni,  and  this 
time  Barbara  was  in  white  satin.  She 
covers  her  sentimental  attachment  for  the 
place  by  saying,  "I'd  played  piano  there 
so  long  I  figured  they  owed  me  a  wed- 
ding." 

With  her  new  husband  in  Korea,  Bar- 
bara continued  her  career  on  the  Garland 
Abbott  Show  on  WTAR-TV  in  Norfolk. 
Last  spring,  she  went  over  to  Nashville 
to  visit  friends  who  were  appearing  on 
Grand  Ole  Opry.  Again,  a  chance  encoun- 
ter proved  eventful.  Vic  McAlpin,  a 
free-lance  songwriter,  stopped  in  at  a 
little  cafe  near  the  WSM  studios  where 
Barbara  and  her  friends  were  having 
coffee.  Impressed  by  her  zest  and  vitality, 
he  suggested  she  come  over  to  the  studio 
and  try  out  a  few  tunes.  Barbara  kicked 
off  her  shoes,  faced  up  to  the  mike  and 
started  to  sing. 

Paul  Cohen,  A  &  R  man  at  Decca  Rec- 
ords, agreed  with  McAlpin  that  Barbara 
was  a  discovery.  When  Decca  released 
"Between  Now  and  Then"  and  "Make  Up 
Your  Mind,"  Billboard,  too,  was  enthusi- 
astic in  its  review.  Remarking  that  she 
sang  with  "plenty  of  heart  and  feeling" 
on  the  first  side — and,  in  a  contrasting 
mood,  exuded  vitality  and  showmanship 
on  the  second — they  passed  the  judg- 
ment: "A  sock  new  voice  for  the  coun- 
try-and -Western  market,  with  marked 
appeal  for  the  pop  field  as  well." 

The  future  looks  bright  for  Barbara 
Allen  and  equally  happy  for  Mrs.  Albert 
Woodroe  Tunnell.  Al  completed  his  Army 
service  last  summer.  They  took  a  second 
honeymoon  and  went  to  visit  his  parents 
in  Arizona.  In  September,  they  settled 
down  in  Nashville.  Al  thinks  one  musi- 
cal career  is  enough  for  one  family. 
"Would  you  believe  it?"  Barbara  says, 
"He's  studying  to  be  a  mortician!" 

At  Columbia  Records,  too,  the  equal- 
rights  policy  is  in  effect.  Famed  A  &  R 
man  Mitch  Miller  says,  "I  don't  believe 
in  song  cycles  or  singer  cycles,  either.  To 
get  a  hit,  you  must  create,  not  imitate. 
There's  no  rule  except  to  make  a  good 
record.  If  the  girls  make  good  records, 
they'll  get  their  share  of  the  popularity." 
Mitch  has  the  satisfaction,  this  season,  of 
seeing  one  young  singer  whom  he  signed 
as  a  teenager  graduate,  at  twenty-one,  to 
top  star  status.  Jill  Corey  drew  one  of  the 
most  sought-after  assignments  in  TV 
when  she  was  chosen  to  be  one  of  the 
four  leads  in  Your  Hit  Parade. 

Mitch  has  another  ready  to  make  a  bid 
for  the  Top  Tunes.  Remember  little 
Gayla  Peevey?  She's  the  ten-year-old 
from  Ponca  City,  Oklahoma,  who,  in  1953, 
sang:  "I  Want  a  Hippopotamus  for  Christ- 
mas." Gayla  got  the  hippo — and  gave  it 
to  a  zoo.  She  also  got  a  flock  of  television 
engagements,  a  Columbia  recording  con- 
tract and  offers  for  motion  pictures. 

Her  parents  believed  that  Gayla  had 
some  normal  growing-up  to  do,  before  get- 
ting too  much  caught  up  in  the  big  whirl, 
and  retired  her  for  a  time.  Now  that  she 
is  fourteen,  she  has  stepped  out  with  two 
swingy  new  tunes,  "I  Want  You  to  Be  My 
Guy"  and  "Too  Young  to  Have  a  Broken 
Heart."  Gayla  is  still  more  interested  in 
high  school  than  high  scoring  on  the 
record  charts,  but  she's  getting  the  expe- 
rience which  could  well  make  her  a  star. 

Mercury  Records'  chips  are  down  on  a 
disc    called   "Sixteen,"   rocked   and   rolled 


by  a  pert  little  Chicago  miss  who  is  ex- 
actly that  age  herself.  Joy  Layne's  father 
is  a  construction  supervisor  who  plays 
violin  and  piano.  Her  mother  takes  an 
active  part  in  community  theater  produc- 
tions. Joy's  favorite  childhood  game  was 
imitating  famous  recording  stars. 

Joy  was  a  fifteen-year-old  student  in 
Lyon  Township  high  school  when  she  se- 
cured an  audition  with  Art  Talmadge, 
A  &  R  chief  at  Mercury.  Art  is  a  man 
who  plays  his  hunches  about  new  talent. 
Patti  Page,  Frankie  Laine,  Jim  Lowe, 
Ralph  Marterie,  The  Crew  Cuts,  The  Dia- 
monds, are  just  a  few  he  started  to  fame. 

He  also  was  ready  to  play  his  hunch 
about  a  tune  called  "Your  Wild  Heart." 
Art  and  a  musical  director,  Carl  Stevens, 
were  trying  to  determine  whose  voice 
would  be  right  for  the  wild  new  song — 
when  Joy  walked  in.  Art  says,  "She  was 
bouncy  and  bright-eyed  and  carrying  her 
mascot."  The  mascot  was  a  squeaky  toy 
dog  called  "Brownie." 

Joy  tried  some  ballads.  When  Art  heard 
how  she  belted  them  out,  he  had  her  try 
"Your  Wild  Heart."  Joy  gave  it  a  fresh, 
new  ring.  Art  says,  "Our  search  was 
over.     This  was  our  girl." 

When  the  record  was  released,  disc 
jockeys  flipped  at  the  sound,  but  they 
questioned  promotion  director  Kenny 
Myers'  word  that  this  big,  mature  voice 
came  from  a  fifteen-year-old  girl.  My- 
ers mailed  out  pictures.  They  still  couldn't 
believe  it.  Myers  then  found  the  con- 
vincer.  He  sent  out  photostatic  copies  of 
Joy's  birth  certificate. 

"Your  Wild  Heart"  was  such  a  hit  that 
Joy  has  followed  it  up  with  "My  Suspi- 
cious Heart"  as  the  flip  side  of  her  new 
birthday  record,  "Sixteen."  With  such  a 
combination,  she's  sure  she  again  will  be 
lucky. 

At  Dot  Records,  a  tall,  willowy  young 
brunette  named  Carol  Jarvis  has  a  song 
made  to  order  for  the  girls  to  play  when 
they  want  to  send  a  musical  message  to 
that  certain  boy.  The  title  is  "Rebel," 
and  it  tells  the  story  of  a  boy  everyone 
warns  the  girl  to  avoid.  She,  however, 
sees  deeper.  She  adores  him  and  be- 
lieves in  him.  The  reverse  side  is  "Whirl- 
pool of  Love."  Carol  delivers  the  ballads 
with  a  slow,  sultry,  emotional  beat. 

Away  from  the  microphone,  Carol  her- 
self bubbles.  She  was  born  in  Chicago, 
the  daughter  of  a  police  officer.  Because 
of  her  mother's  health,  the  family  moved 
to  California.  Carol's  singing  career 
started  when  the  Sisters  at  St.  Bernar- 
dino asked  her  to  put  on  the  junior  play. 

"I  immediately  appointed  myself  the 
star,"  Carol  confesses.  "We  did  a  take-off 
on  This  Is  Your  Life.  In  it,  I  was  sup- 
posed to  be  a  singer,  so  naturally  I  had  to 
sing  a  few  numbers.  People  started  to 
applaud  and,  from  then  on,  I  wanted  to 
sing.  My  family  encouraged  me,  but  I 
really  didn't  know  I  wanted  to  be  a 
singer.     It  just  worked  out  that  way." 

Her  first  professional  job — "where  I  got 
paid  and  had  a  union  card" — was  Art 
Linkletter's  show.  She  also  did  a  few 
shows  with  Lawrence  Welk.  It  was  all  a 
lark  to  Carol.  "I  was  eighteen  and  didn't 
stop  to  think  what  I  sounded  like.  It  was 
just  new  and  fun.  I  liked  the  applause 
and  the  glory.  It  was  simply  smiling  at 
people  and  singing."  Now  she  wants  to 
be  a  polished  entertainer.  "Somebody 
who  can  get  up  and  be  very  relaxed  and 
still  know  exactly  what  I'm  doing  and 
get  the  audience  over  to  my  side  every 
time.  I  understand  what  I  want  to  do. 
Now  I'm  trying  to  find  out  how  to  do  it." 

Carol  continues  to  live  with  her  family 
in  Covina.  Her  room,  which  she  deco- 
rated, is  very  frilly.  "It's  the  odd-ball 
room    of   the   whole    house."     Where    the 


other  predominating  scheme  is  Early 
American,  highlighted  with  copper  and 
brass,  Carol  went  to  wrought  iron  in 
white  and  gray.  "I  just  wanted  to  be 
different.    And  I  love  color,  all  colors." 

She  hopes  some  day  to  sing  in  musical 
comedy.  "I'd  like  to  try  it  when  I'm 
ready.  I  don't  even  think  I  will  go  to 
New  York.  I  would  rather  styrt  out  in 
summer  stock,  somewhere  little,  to  see  if 
I  can  handle  it  and  feel  good  in  it." 

Carol  has  only  one  complaint  about  the 
busy  life  she  leads.  "Romance?  I  haven't 
any.  It  is  very  dull.  I  really  mean  it  is 
horrible.  I  am  very  discouraged."  But, 
in  the  next  breath,  she  forecasts  what 
will  happen  when  the  right  boy  comes 
along.  Among  her  favorite  songs  are  "I 
Could  Have  Danced  All  Night"  and  "You 
Made  Me  Love  You."  Says  Carol,  "I  like 
happy  songs  the  best." 

Capitol  Records'  strong  contender  as 
teen  queen  is  Sue  Raney,  born  June  18, 
1939,  who  was  graduated  in  June  from 
Hollywood  Professional  School — and  cele- 
brated the  event  with  the  release,  "What's 
the  Good  Word,  Mr.  Bluebird,"  and  "The 
Careless  Years."  She  also  was  guest  star 
on  Tennessee  Ernie  Ford's  final  show  last 
season.  She  had  her  own  TV  show  on 
KGGN  in  Albuquerque. 

This  lass  with  the  delicate  air  was  born 
in  McPherson,  Kansas,  and  she's  a  second- 
generation  thrush.  As  Sue  tells  the  story, 
"All  my  coaching  came  from  my  mother. 
She  used  to  sing  around  Nebraska,  under 
the  name  of  Mildred  Marie,  with  my 
uncle  Arnie  Vanderbilt's  orchestra.  Then 
she  fell  in  love  and  got  married." 

Sue's  voice  lessons  began  when  she  was 
five.  They  then  lived  in  Wichita,  Kansas. 
"We  went  up  to  see  Sue  Fulton,  who  was 
a  voice  coach.  Because  she  wouldn't  take 
a  student  younger  than  twelve,  my  mother 
took  the  lessons.  Then  she  taught  me." 
Came  the  day  when  there  was  no  baby 
sitter  to  be  had,  and  young  Sue  tagged 
along  to  class.  Miss  Fulton,  making  a 
pleasant  little  fuss  over  the  child,  asked  if 
she  liked  to  sing.  Sue  promptly  demon- 
strated. "She  was  very  surprised  to  hear 
I  had  such  a  mature  voice,"  Sue  recalls, 
"but  then  she  didn't  know  I  had  been 
having  her  lessons.  After  that,  although 
she  did  not  include  me  in  the  class,  she 
did  give  me  some  coaching  and  put  me  in 
some  of  her  little  shows." 

Sue  still  remembers  the  thrill  of  one 
program:  "It  was  for  the  Miners'  and 
Prospectors'  Association  out  in  Albuquer- 
que. I  was  seven  or  eight,  and  they  were 
so  sweet  to  me.    When  they  threw  money 


on  the  stage,  I  saved  it  all.  I  put  it  in  a 
big  tin  can  and  kept  it  for  years.  I  finally 
spent  it  on  a  vacation  to  California." 

Sue's  first  attempt  to  enter  the  movies 
was  a  failure.  She  found  she  was  five 
inches  too  tall  for  the  child  part  in 
"Mother  Wore  Tights."  The  family  made 
its  permanent  move  to  Hollywood  about 
two  years  ago,  when  Sue  went  on  the 
Jack  Carson  radio  show.  She  says,  "It 
was  tough  for  my  parents  to  pick  up  and 
leave,  but  they  did  it  for  me  and  I  think 
it  was  wonderful  of  them."  She  adores 
her  parents  and  thinks  her  sisters  and 
brother  are  pretty  nice,  too. 

Of  Gary,  the  seventeen-year  old,  she 
says,  "We  get  along  like  downtown.  He 
plays  drums,  we  go  to  shows  together, 
we  went  to  professional  school  together. 
We  have  fun."  Her  sister  Carole  "has 
great  musical  ability.  Mother  taught  her 
to  play  piano,  and  she's  a  real  good  classi- 
cal pianist.  We're  very  proud  of  her  work, 
too.  She  started  on  the  lowest  possible 
job  at  KNXT.  Now  she  is  executive  sec- 
retary to  Don  Heinz,  the  program  direc- 
tor." Candy,  the  two-year  old,  is  "real 
cute.  She  sings  and  dances  and  seems  to 
have  a  lot  of  rhythm.  Every  time  one  of 
my  records  comes  on  the  radio,  she  recog- 
nizes my  voice." 

Sue  does  her  share  of  the  housework 
and  she  takes  a  hand  in  making  her 
clothes.  "I  design  them  and  cut  them  out, 
then,  when  Mother  has  time,  she  sews 
them  up."  Sue  writes  poetry  and  songs. 
She  would  like  to  study  music  theory. 
"Songwriting  is  fun,"  she  says,  "and  I 
think  it  will  help  me  to  pick  my  own 
material."  She  has  her  eye  on  the  movies. 
"I'd  like  to  be  in  pictures.  I  would  like 
to  be  able  to  dance,  to  act  and  to  sing. 
I  think  a  performer  should  be  all-around." 

In  romance,  Sue  tempers  her  wishes 
with  wisdom.  "I  don't  go  out  very  much. 
I  don't  have  a  steady  boyfriend.  When 
I  do  go  out,  I  think  it  is  a  better  idea  for 
a  girl  my  age  to  double-date.  If  it's  a 
blind  date,  or  if  you  don't  know  the  boy 
well,  you  have  more  fun  when  you  dou- 
ble. But,  if  you  like  him  very  much,  it 
is  nice  to  be  alone." 

At  almost  every  recording  company,  the 
young  girls  are  beginning  to  get  atten- 
tion. Already,  they  are  the  darlings  of 
the  A  &  R  men.  One  of  these  days,  the 
other  young  girls  are  bound  to  become 
their  fans  and  find  in  their  records  the 
vision  of  the  singing  "second  self."  RCA 
Victor's  Joe  Carlton  summed  it  up,  say- 
ing: "It's  bound  to  come.  A  young  girl  has 
her    own    emotional    expression    to    give." 


Our  Gal  Sally 


(Continued  jrora  page  25) 
viewpoint  to  go  with  the  view,"  jokes  one 
of  her  friends. 

Joan  considers  this  a  second,  smiling 
across  half  an  acre  of  greenery  to  where 
Marie  Windsor,  the  film  star,  and  husband 
Jack  Hupp  are  making  a  merry  splash  in 
the  pool.  .  .  .  "If  I  answer  that  directly,  it'll 
sound  like  I  was  bragging,"  she  finally  re- 
plies. "I'll  quote  Marie  there,  instead.  She 
told  me,  a  few  days  ago,  that  the  old  Caul- 
field  may  have  had  her  head  in  the  clouds, 
but  the  new  one  not  only  has  that,  but  her 
feet  on  the  ground,  besides.  That  was  the 
grandest  compliment  she  could  have  paid 
me.  I  was  flattered."  She  pauses  long 
enough  to  pass  around  a  plate  of  fresh- 
baked  cookies,  then  adds:  "I  think  I  still 
need  a  few  moorings  to  hold  me  down." 

With  regard  to  the  "new  Caulfield,"  her 
friends  and  fans  insist  that  there  weren't 
any  flies  on  the  "old  Caulfield,"  either.  It's 
just  that  the  glamour  girl,  as  she  became 


a  woman,  began  to  see  the  need  of  respon- 
sibility and  self-control.  The  girl  who 
parlayed  her  beauty  and  enthusiasm  into 
fame  and  a  fortune,  as  a  model,  actress  and 
entertainer,  has  come  to  the  turn  in  the 
road  where  exuberance,  however  charming, 
can  no  longer  serve  as  a  guide. 

An  incident  that  occurred  during  the 
making  of  her  latest  television  series,  Sally, 
should  tell  the  story.  .  .  .  Shortly  after 
lunch  one  day,  Joan  came  bouncing  onto 
the  sound  stage.  In  a  huddle  over  the 
setting  up  of  a  shot  were  her  husband, 
producer  Frank  Ross,  whose  movie  pro- 
ductions of  "The  Robe"  and  "Rains  of 
Ranchipur"  were  memorable  hits;  director 
William  Asher;  veteran  actress  Marion 
Lome,  the  rich  matron  who  employs  mis- 
chievous Sally  as  her  traveling  companion; 
and  various  members  of  the  crew.  "Listen, 
everyone,"  Joan  bubbled,  "I've  got  a  ter- 
rific idea.    Wouldn't  it  be  great  if — " 

Here    she    stopped,    embarrassed.       The 


Special  New  Tablet 

Relieves  Monthly  Cramps 

for  3  out  of  4  in  Tests! 


Amazing  new  formula  developed 

especially  for  female  distress  gives 

greater  relief  than  aspirin! 

If  you  dread  those  "difficult  days"  each 
month,  listen!  Science  has  developed  a 
special  new  tablet  to  relieve  pain,  cramps, 
and  tense  feelings  of  monthly  periods! 
It  contains  a  unique  combination  of  medi- 
cines— including  blood-building  iron. 
Thus  offers  more  relief  than  plain  aspirin! 

In  doctors'  tests  painful  distress  was 
relieved  for  3  out  of  4  women!  Many 
didn't  suffer  even  on  the  first  day !  They 
also  escaped  much  of  the  jitters  and  un- 
happy tension  so  common  as  you  ap- 
proach that  trying  time  of  month. 

So  don't  suffer  needlessly.  Ask  for 
"Lydia  Pinkham  Tablets"  at  drug  stores. 
No  prescription  needed.  See  if  they  don't 
help  you  feel  worlds  better — both  before 
and  during  your  period! 


's  Doing  itl 


WALLET  Size  2Vj  x  Vh  on 
PORTRAIT  QUALITY  PAPER 

Just  pennies  per  picture  for 
beautiful  portrait-quality 
reproductions  of  your  own  favorite 
photograph.  Send  one  portrait  or 
snapshot  (returned  unharmed) 
And  money  to: 
WALLET  PHOTOS,  BOX  M-37 
Hillside,  N.J. 


In  a  hurry?  Send  25c  extra 
for  Super-Speed  service. 


MONEY  BACK  GUARANTEE 


We  pay  postage! 


FABULOUS,  NEW 

5-Foot-Long  Balloons 

Twist  Into  A  Thousand  Shapes! 

GIRAFFES  —  DACHSHUNDS  —  Pets  of  All  Kind. 


Mad*  of 
Liv«  Latex 


20(U«'1 


Add  25c 
Postage 

and 
Handling 


Delight  Kiddie*  —  Crown-Ups,  Tee! 

Fantastically  flexible  Live  Latex!  Like  no  other  bolloons 
you've  ever  teenl  Twill  'em,  turn  'em,  bend  'em— they  won't 
break!  Cut  them  in  half  or  any  size— twiil,  and  they  reuall 
The  kiddies  will  have  a  whole  of  a  time  making  them  into 
Davy  Crockett  hati.  pretzels,  giraffei.  lions,  fish-a  whole 
tool  You'll  want  them  for  unusual  party  or  recreation 
room  decorotionil  Liven  up  a  p<3rtf  with  a  contest  for 
making  the  funniest  shape  of  alll    Complete  initrucrioni. 

Almost  5  fMt  long  when  inflated.  Bollons  this  size  usually 
sell  up  to  2  5c  eochl 

Send  only  $1  now.  Plus  25c  postage  and 
handling  for  200  in  a  variety  of  gay  colors! 
Supply  limited  at  this  low  price,  so  order 
several  sets  NOW  for  GUARANTEED 
PROMPT  DELIVERY.  MONEY  BACK 
GUARANTEE 

MURRAY  HILL  HOUSE 

Dept.  2511,  114  E.  32nd  St..  N.Y.  16,  N.Y. 


T 
V 
R 

85 


WOMEN 

00  PLACES 

WITH 

Good 
Manners 


Are  you  shy  .  .  .  timid  .  .  .  afraid  to  meet 
and  talk  with  people?  If  so,  here's  good 
news  for  you!  For  Elsa  Maxwell,  the  fa- 
mous hostess  to  world  celebrities,  has 
written  a  book  packed  solid  with  ways  to 
develop  poise  and  self-confidence. 

This  wonderful  book  entitled,  Elsa  Max- 
well's Etiquette  Book  contains  the  an- 
swers to  all  your  everyday  social 
problems.  By  following  the  suggestions 
given  in  this  book  you  know  exactly  how 
to  conduct  yourself  on  every  occasion. 
Once  you  are  completely  familiar  with 
the  rules  of  good  manners  you  immedi- 
ately lose  your  shyness — and  you  be- 
come your  true,  radiant  self. 

Win  New  Respect 

Win  new  esteem  and  respect  from  your 
friends — men  and  women  alike.  Read 
one  chapter  in  this  helpful  book  in  your 
spare  time,  and  in  a  very  short  period 
you  will  find  yourself  with  more  self- 
confidence  than  you  ever  dreamed  you 
would  have.  You  will  experience  the 
wonderful  feeling  of  being  looked  up  to 
and  admired. 

Good  manners  are  one  of  the  greatest  per- 
sonal assets  you  can  possess.  Good  jobs, 
new  friends,  romance,  and  the  chance  to 
influence  people  can  be  won  with  good 
manners.  Ladies  and  gentlemen  are  al- 
ways welcome  .  .  .  anywhere.  And  the 
most  encouraging  thing  about  good  man- 
ners is  that  anyone  can  possess  them. 

Only  $1.00 

The  price  of  this 
book  that  puts  you 
at  ease  no  matter 
where  you  are — 
and  opens  the  door 
to  achievement 
and  success — costs 
only  $1.00.  And  we 
pay  the  postage! 
Take  advantage  of 
this  truly  remark- 
able bargain.  Mail 
coupon  below  for 
your  book  —  TO- 
DAY! 


BARTHOLOMEW  HOUSE.  INC.,  Dept.  WG-1157 
205  E.  42nd  St.,  New  York  17,   N.  Y. 

■  Send  me  postpaid  a  copy  of  ELSA  MAX- 
!  WELL'S    ETIQUETTE    BOOK.    I    enclose 

■$1.00. 


T 

V 
R 

86 


;name 

,  please    Print 


i  STREET. 
CITY... 


.STATE. 


group  had  turned  toward  her  with  an  ex- 
pression that  she  herself  wryly  admits  she 
would  use  toward  "an  overplayful  child  or 
pet."  She  glanced  guiltily  at  Marion.  Her 
friend  was  making  with  "the  violin  rou- 
tine." This  is  a  signal,  she  explains.  "Mari- 
on crosses  a  finger  over  her  thumb  and 
saws  it  back  and  forth  as  if  playing  'Hearts 
and  Flowers.'  It's  a  way  of  letting  me 
know  I'm  off  the  ground  again,  a  sort  of 
equivalent  of  'You're  breaking  my  heart, 
girlie.'  I  shut  up  then,  except  for  begging 
pardon  and  saying  my  idea  could  wait." 
Ten  minutes  later,  she  was  glad  she  had 
waited.    Her  idea  didn't  seem  quite  so  hot. 

To  those  who  knew  her  well,  this  is  in- 
deed a  change.  Only  a  year  ago,  she 
would  have  paid  little  attention  to  Marion's 
signal.  She  probably  wouldn't  have  no- 
ticed it  at  all.  She'd  have  been  too  wrapped 
up  in  her  super-duper  idea,  and  would 
have  put  her  faith  in  enthusiasm  to  carry 
the  day.  Not  that  she  had  no  regard  for 
other  people's  ideas  and  opinions.  She 
simply  was  too  used  to  rushing  in  where 
angels  fear  to  tread  and — as  she  states  it — 
"all  too  often  I'd  be  left  standing  with  egg 
on  my  face." 

The  art  of  disciplining  her  emotions  took 
"a  painfully  long  time,"  she  recalls.  She 
didn't  learn  easily  and  a  lot  of  people  and 
things  came  together  to  bring  about  the 
transformation.  People  like  her  husband 
Frank  and  her  friend  Marion.  Things  like 
owning  a  share  in  a  video  series  which  is 
sponsored  alternately  by  two  of  the  na- 
tion's leading  industrial  firms. 

Joan  had  every  right  to  feel  the  zest  of 
living.  Nature  had  endowed  her  from  the 
start  with  health,  beauty,  intelligence  and 
the  love  of  a  fine  and  comfortably-fixed 
family.  Born  and  raised  in  East  Orange, 
New  Jersey,  the  Caulfields  (Joan,  her  par- 
ents and  two  sisters)  moved  to  New  York 
when  she  was  fifteen.  One  year  later,  on 
the  wave  of  a  sudden  impulse,  she  stormed 
the  ramparts  of  Walter  Conover's  model 
agency  and  made  an  ardent  plea  for  a  job. 
Conover  saw  in  her  an  unspoiled  and  over- 
flowing vibrancy  that  he  knew  would  reg- 
ister on  photographs,  especially  those  in 
color,  and  he  gave  her  a  job  at  once.  With 
some  training,  she  soon  stepped  into  the 
front  rank  of  the  younger  models,  especial- 
ly in  teen-age  fashions. 

It  was  at  this  time  that  she  was  discov- 
ering the  theater.  Suddenly,  she  felt  her- 
self lifted  on  to  a  new  wave  of  enthusiasm. 
Wouldn't  it  be  marvelous  to  be  an  actress! 
To  stand  before  the  footlights,  the  center  of 
a  thousand  eyes,  and  then — presto! — change 
into  another  person  entirely!  She  had 
visions  of  herself  in  heavy  tragic  roles. 
The  dying  Camille!  "I'd  have  given  my 
teeth  to  play  a  crotchety  grandma — the 
idea  of  playing  anything  like  'The  Petty 
Girl'  never  entered  my  mind.  .  .  ." 

Since  she  was  a  student  at  Columbia 
University,  the  shortest  distance  to  get  on 
stage  was  by  way  of  the  Morningside 
Players,  the  University's  dramatic  society. 
She  joined  and  was  soon — if  not  the  most 
important — certainly  the  most  dedicated 
member  of  the  group.  .  .  .  Opening  night, 
she  developed  "a  bad  case  of  butterflies  in 
the  tummy."  Once  again,  she  staked 
everything  on  vim,  vigor  and  enthusiasm. 
She  figured  that,  as  long  as  she  kept  busy 
and  buoyant,  nobody  would  notice  her 
nervousness.  From  entrance  to  exit,  she 
kept  moving  around.  It  came  as  a  horri- 
fying shock  afterward  to  hear  one  of  the 
lead  actors  accuse  her  of  upstaging  him. 

"I  was  so  green  I  didn't  know  what  the 
term  meant,"  she  confesses.  "But  that 
wasn't  the  half  of  my  sins.  One  of  my 
beaus  sent  word  backstage  that  his  father 
was  in  the  audience  and  wanted  to  meet 
me.  Promptly  with  the  first  act  curtain, 
I  dashed  out  front  to  play  the  gracious 
artiste    for    the    benefit    of    a    prospective 


papa-in-law.  My  fellow  players  were 
scandalized  and  Dr.  Milton  Smith,  head  of 
the  Drama  Department,  informed  me  that, 
while  exuberance  and  impulsiveness  were 
good  qualities  in  an  actress,  you  just  don't 
allow  them  to  carry  you  away — particular- 
ly not  into  the  audience,  and  most  especial- 
ly not  between  acts." 

In  her  own  frantic  way,  Joan  was  even 
then  aspiring  toward  a  meaning  and  pur- 
pose in  life.  "I  had  the  funny  illusions  of 
a  kid.  I  actually  thought  I  was  being  very 
dignified  and  thoughtful."  In  any  case, 
she'd  had  her  taste  of  the  limelight  and 
she  would  be  haunted  by  the  magic  of  the 
theater  from  then  on.  Armed  with  a  num- 
ber of  magazine  covers  for  which  she  had 
posed,  she  walked  into  producer  George 
Abbott's  office  one  day  and  boldly  as- 
sured him  that  she  was  exactly  what  he 
was  looking  for.  He  replied  that  he  was 
looking  for  a  song-and-dance  girl.  She'd 
never  had  a  lesson  in  music,  but  the  vigor 
of  her  avowals  won  him  over  in  spite  of 
his  better  judgment.  She  played  a  Mari- 
lyn Monroe-type  of  secretary  in  his  pro- 
duction of  "Beat  the  Band"  and  it  turned 
out  to  be  one  of  his  rare  flops.  Joan's  luck 
held  up;  her  notices  were  first-rate. 

Next  season,  Abbott  called  her.  "I  have 
a  real  part  for  you,"  he  said.  It  was  the 
part  of  Corliss  Archer  in  "Kiss  and  Tell,"' 
and  it  proved  to  be  one  of  her  most  sen- 
sational hits.  After  fourteen  delightful 
months  in  the  role,  she  bowed  out  to  ac- 
cept a  Paramount  contract.  Her  career 
was  moving  along  in  Horatio  Alger  style. 

The  only  note  of  dissent  came  from  Ab- 
bott. He  gave  her  a  piece  of  advice  she 
now  wishes  she  had  followed.  "Get  a  few 
more  seasons  of  Broadway  experience,"  he 
said.  "You're  not  really  ready  to  tackle 
Hollywood."  Undeterred,  Joan  answered 
that,  if  the  film  executives  felt  she  was 
ready,  they  must  know  best.  It  was  some 
time  before  she  learned  what  had  really 
led  to  her  contract.  The  late  Buddy  de 
Sylva  had  seen  her  in  "Kiss  and  Tell"  and 
wired  Paramount  that  she  was  "a  lively 
young  actress — with  very  good  legs!" 

Joan's  fib  about  being  a  trained  singer 
and  dancer  had  paid  dividends  once;  she 
tried  it  again  at  the  studio.  The  results 
would  have  deflated  another  girl  for  good. 
Following  her  first  movie,  "Miss  Susie 
Slagle,"  in  which  she  did  a  variation  on 
the  Corliss  theme,  the  studio  heads  re- 
membered what  she'd  told  them.  She  was 
cast  in  a  series  of  routine  musicals,  each 
leaving  her  more  miserable  than  the  one 
before.  "I  was  in  a  constant  state  of 
nerves.  I  knew  I  couldn't  dance,  and  the 
sound  of  a  musical  bar  would  tense  every 
muscle  in  my  body.  When  I  was  cast  for 
'The  Petty  Girl'  at  Columbia,  I  was  pretty 
blue  and  most  of  the  bounce  had  gone  out 
of  me.    I  dreaded  doing  another  musical." 

Now,  in  her  dark  moment,  fortune's 
child  sat  down  and  took  serious  stock  of 
herself.  The  girl  who  had  never  doubted 
that  youth,  good  luck,  a  little  rashness  and 
a  lot  of  enthusiasm  could  take  her  to  the 
heights  was  now  faced  with  the  plain  hard 
fact  that  all  was  not  going  according  to 
Hoyle.  The  old  magic  was  simply  not 
working.  She  was  puzzled,  unhappy,  lost. 
"For  the  first  time  in  my  life,  I  was  fright- 
ened." 

Then  came  a  rift  in  the  darkness;  she 
met  Frank  Ross.  Joan  had  confided  her 
fears  about  doing  "The  Petty  Girl"  to  her 
good  friend,  Benay  Venuta,  who  was  also  a 
friend  of  Frank's.  Benay  knew  he  was 
one  of  filmland's  best  social  dancers  and 
she  asked  him  to  help  Joan.  In  two  days, 
according  to  Joan,  he  had  succeeded  where 
high-priced  teachers  had  failed.  "He 
taught  me  that  you  just  can't  dance  grace- 
fully until  you  know  the  difference  be- 
tween a  beat  and  an  off-beat." 

They  began  dating.  "You  know,  we  were 


! 


introduced  two  years  ago  at  the  Bel  Air 
Country  Club,"  Frank  told  her. 

"I  remember,"  Joan  laughed.  "I'm  curi- 
ous to  know  what  you  thought  of  me." 

"You  looked  so  healthy,"  Frank  replied, 
"I  thought  you  were  probably  president 
of  the  4-H  Clubs." 

Joan  went  on  to  do  a  topflight  job  in 
"Petty  Girl"  and — as  she  once  put  it — "I'd 
not  only  gotten  the  beat,  but  a  husband  to 
boot."  Naturally,  Benay  was  maid  of  hon- 
or, and  the  wedding  was  held  at  the  home 
of  Armand  Deutsch.  Joan  still  cherishes 
Armand's  gift,  a  pearl  French  poodle  pin 
which  she  wore  on  her  wedding  dress  and 
still  keeps  as  a  luck  charm.  She  wore  it 
at  least  once  during  every  segment  of  her 
smash  TV  series,  My  Favorite  Husband, 
and  is  now  carrying  on  that  tradition  in 
Sally.  She  has  only  two  other  treasures  to 
match  it.  The  first  was  given  her  by 
Michael  Chekhov,  the  great  actor  who  was 
one  of  her  earlier  teachers.  It  is  a  gold 
medal  which  was  presented  to  him  by  the 
Moscow  Art  Theater.  The  other  is  a  dia- 
mond bracelet,  the  gift  of  her  husband,  on 
completion  of  "Rains  of  Ranchipur,"  for 
being  "such  a  wonderful  Fern." 

She  was  happy  again.  Being  Frank's 
wife  was  "the  red-letter  event"  of  her  life. 
But  it  was  not  the  same  Joan.  She  had 
learned  a  lesson  and  she  was  not  likely  to 
forget.  Now,  under  Frank's  guidance,  she 
began  the  search  for  a  more  mature  ap- 
proach to  things.  She  began  to  surprise 
her  friends  by  asking  questions  about  their 
attitudes,  opinions,  actions.  She  showed 
an  interest  in  politics  and  philosophy.  She 
was  still  leaping,  but  not  without  trying 
to  think  first. 

And  Frank  was  working  with  her  pa- 
tiently and  wisely.  She  came  home  from 
a  hot  day  of  filming,  tired  and  exasperated. 
Frank  was  dressed,  ready  to  take  her  to  a 
dinner  party.  "I  can't  do  it,"  she  pro- 
tested. "I  look  terrible.  I  have  lines  to 
learn  and  I  just  can't  face  a  roomful  of 
people  tonight." 

"I  know  you've  had  a  bad  day,"  Frank 
said  gently.  "But  most  of  the  guests  have 
probably  had  a  hard  time,  too.  They'll 
come  because  they  don't  want  their  hosts 
to  be  disappointed.  How  you  look  is  not 
as  important  as  how  your  hosts  will  feel  if 
you  don't  show  up  at  their  table.  Not  to  go 
because  of  how  you  look  is  only  another 
way  of  thinking  exclusively  of  yourself. 
It's  a  form  of  selfishness." 

Frank's  chiding  reminded  Joan  of  some- 
thing Michael  Chekhov  had  said.  "A  truly 
fine  artist  has  control  over  his  medium  and 
his  emotions  at  all  times.  He  doesn't  have 
to  live  his  roles  at  home." 

"I  suddenly  realized,"  admitted  Joan, 
"that  I  had  been  bringing  my  roles  home 
and  playing  them  day  and  night.  I  saw 
that  this,  too,  was  a  form  of  thinking  only 
of  myself  and  my  career.  It  was  not  great 
art.     It  was  only  self-indulgence." 

Through  Marion  Lome,  Joan  grew  to  ad- 
mire the  subtle  and  quiet  manner  of  pre- 
senting an  idea.  Before  working  so  closely 
with  her,  Joan  had  been  inclined  toward 
the  theory  that  "bubbling  vivaciousness" 
was  equivalent  to  youth.  If  you  plunged 
in  with  enough  exuberance,  she  felt,  peo- 
ple would  listen. 

"Marion's  a  real  trouper,  a  bundle  of 
energy  who  never  gets  dull  or  complains, 
and  who's  always  giving  off  ideas,"  Joan 
pointed  out.  "But  more  important,  she 
knows  how  to  curb  the  energy,  and  how  to 
put  these  ideas  before  you.  She  makes 
her  suggestions  calmly,  listens  carefully  to 
criticism,  holds  no  grudge  if  another  view- 
point wins  out.  This  is  discipline.  This 
is  maturity  in  action.  And  yet  she  is 
younger  in  spirit  than  any  of  us." 

Marion  and  Joan  begin  their  day  to- 
gether. They  begin  early— at  6:35  A.M., 
to  be  exact — when  Joan  picks  up  Marion 
at  the  Beverly  Hills  Hotel.     They  drive  to- 


gether to  the  Paramount  Studios  where 
Caulross  is  shooting  the  Sally  series. 
"Marion's  bright  frame  of  mind,  along  with 
her  complete  calmness,  starts  my  day  off 
sensibly,"  Joan  confesses.  They  pick  up 
coffee  and  chocolate  doughnuts,  then  head 
for  the  make-up  department.  Shooting 
begins  at  nine  and  continues  until  six, 
with  one  hour  for  lunch.  By  the  time  Joan 
drops  Marion  off  at  the  hotel,  it's  after 
seven  and  Joan  usually  isn't  through  with 
dinner  until  nine.  It  was  a  question  of 
either  learning  a  measure  of  planning,  con- 
trol and  discipline — or  allowing  her  home, 
family  life,  and  career  to  fall  into  a  chaotic 
mess.  Joan  set  her  pretty  head  and  learned. 
Making  Sally  has  also  taught  Joan  some 
stern  lessons.  "Being  the  star  of  a  show  is 
one  kind  of  responsibility.  Being  the  wife 
of  the  producer  is  another."  When  Frank 
was  casting  for  the  show,  Joan  noticed  the 
names  of  certain  actors  on  the  call  sheet. 
Forgetting,  for  the  moment,  her  resolution 
not  to  go  off  half-cocked,  she  generously 
urged  that  these  actors  be  given  an  extra 
bonus  as  they'd  been  out  of  work  for  some 
time.  Frank  had  to  put  his  foot  down.  "I 
appreciate  your  kindness,  Joan,"  he  told 
her,  "but  this  is  business.  The  agents  and 
I  settle  on  a  price  and  that's  what  we  pay. 
I'm  always  for  a  good  price  for  a  good  job, 
but  if  we  start  tossing  bonuses  around, 
we'll  soon  be  short  of  capital  and  every- 
one will  be  out  of  work." 

La  earning  not  to  be  self-conscious  about 
being  both  star  and  producer's  wife  came 
hard  to  Joan.  At  the  beginning,  she  felt 
called  on  to  be  extra  nice  to  all  the  cast. 
She  began  to  overdo  the  compliments  and 
praise.  "She  nearly  ruined  a  few  fine 
actors,"  Frank  laughs.  "She  made  them 
feel  so  important  that,  by  the  time  we  got 
around  to  shooting,  they  were  telling  the 
director  how  to  direct  and  the  cameraman 
how  to  take  pictures." 

Joan  likes  to  tell  one  on  herself  which 
evidently  has  some  special  meaning  for 
her:  While  doing  My  Favorite  Husband, 
she  had  to  change  clothes  and  hop  from 
set  to  set  so  quickly  that  a  screen  was 
placed  on  stage  to  expedite  matters.  She 
would  step  behind  this  screen,  change, 
then  rush  into  the  next  scene,  sometimes 
with  only  one  shoe  on.  Since  it  was  done 
"live,"  the  audience  would  greet  these 
flurries  with  loud  bursts  of  laughter.  One 
night,  something  happened  that  was  far 
from  funny  to  Joan.  She  had  to  change 
from  a  heavy  wool  ski  suit  into  a  slinky 
black  dress  in  thirty  seconds.  She  slipped 
behind  the  screen,  tugged  at  the  zipper — it 
was  stuck,  but  good.  She  and  the  ward- 
robe girl  worked  frantically  until  the  as- 
sistant director  hissed,  "Rip  it — rip  it  off!" 

Joan  still  shudders  at  the  memory.  "Have 
you  ever  tried  to  rip  off  a  heavy  ski-suit? 
Well,  sometimes  I  think  of  that  when  I 
let  my  enthusiasm  run  away  with  me  and 
do  something  foolish  before  I  can  catch 
myself  up.  I  think  that  ripping  off  one  set 
of  habits  and  replacing  it  with  another  is 
very  much  like  trying  to  rip  off  that  suit 
with  the  zipper  stuck.  But  I  managed 
then.  I'll  make  good  on  this  more  im- 
portant change  ...  if  trying  can  do  it." 

In  planning  Sally,  Frank  felt  that  her 
clothes  should  be  kept  simple  and  average, 
to  fit  the  pocketbook  of  a  paid  companion. 
Joan  took  the  view  that  the  show's  Mrs. 
Banford,  being  wealthy,  would  want  her 
companion  to  look  well  and  so  would  be 
willing  to  pay  for  it.  "Frank  argued  that 
Sally  had  been  a  shop  girl  before  going 
With  Mrs.  Banford,"  Joan  explained.  "I  an- 
swered that  the  modern  American  shop 
girl  is  very  smartly  turned  out  and  Sally 
should  show  this  trend.  Frank  made  some 
good  points  but  I  really  felt  I  was  right 
and  could  convince  him  if  I  didn't  press 
too  hard.    I  decided  to  win,  but  softly." 

Joan  knew  that  Audrey  Hepburn  is  one 


PERMANENT   DARKENER  forthe 


hairs  to 


FOR  LASHES  AND  BROWS  :ph;£d 


•  NOT  AN  ANAUNB  DYEI 

•  I  APPLICATION  LASTS  4  to  S  WEEKSI 

Takes  just  seconds  to  apply  ■ . .  stays  on  4  to 
5  weeksl  "Dark-Eyes"  is  the  perfect  way  to 
make  eyelashes  and  brows  completely  natural 
looking .  ..and  it  will  not  harden  or  break 
theml  "Dark-Eyes"  is  NOT  A  MASCARAI 
Will    not   stick   to  eyelash    curler.    Eliminates 


25c 

SiHD  TODAY 
for 
TRIAL  SIZE 
NO  DELAY — 
your  trial  order 
shipped  in  24 


the  bother  of  daily  eye  make-up. 
It  is  PERMANENT,  SWIMPROOF, 
SMUDGEPROOF,  TEARPROOF,  and 
SMEARPROOFI 

$1.25  (plus  tax)  at  leading  drag, 
dept.  and  variety  chain  stares. 


"DARK-EYES"   COMPANY,  Dept.  P-117 
3319  W.  Carroll  Ave.,  Chicago  24,  III. 

I  enclose  25c  (coin  or  stamps— tax  included)  for 
TRIAL  SIZE  pkg.  of  "Dark-Eyes"  with  directions. 
check  shade:  □  Light  Brown  □  Brown  □  Black 

Name 


Address- 
Town 


_State_ 


cecnht^^cgePLANTER  and  SWANS 

3-Piece  Salt  and  Pepper  Set  Fo?oni 

Complete    with    Colorful    Floral    Display 

Bargain— to     get    new    customers!     The    two  £?  f^\  *% 

lovely    swans     (one    pours    salt,    the    other  T»M  BM. 

Sepper)   stretch  their  long  graceful  necks  as  ^^  ^^  ^^ 

drinking  from  the  charming  Flower  Ring. 
An  enchanting,  imported  creation  that's  so  pretty  as  a  table 
centerpiece  or  on  mantel,  end-table,  etc.  Artistically  made 
of  hand-decorated,  gleaming  white  ceramic.  Comes  com- 
plete with  a  beautiful  spray  of  lovely,  multi-colored  simu- 
lated flowers.  If  you  desire,  remove  them  from  Planter, 
and  use  it  for  serving  candy,  nuts,  cigarettes,  etc. 
The  Center  Of  Attraction!  A  wonderful  conversation 
piece  you'll  cherish  for  years.  Satisfaction  guaranteed  or 
money  back.  Not  more  than  2  sets  to  a  person  at  this  low 

grice.    Add   only    20c   to   each    Set   ordered  for  postage   and 
andling.   No   C.O.D.'s   please. 

DOBBS  PRODUCTS  CO.,  1255  S.Wabash,  Dept.  260,  Chicago  5.  III. 

r    MWKHaveDaTkor 
[  Discolored  Skin,  Freckles, 
Ugly  Skin  Spots— 

WHEN  Mercolized  Wax  Cream's 
amazing  7  night  plan  lightens, 

beautifies  skin  while  you  sleep! 

Just  follow  the  famous  Mercolized  Wax 
Cream  7  night  plan  to  a  whiter,  clearer, 
lovelier  complexion.  Apply  specially  med- 
icated Mercolized  Wax  Cream  to  face, 
arms,  or  elsewhere  each  night 
for  one  week.  You'll  begin  to  see 
results  almost  at  once,  as  it  light- 
ens dark  skin,  blotches,  freckles 
and  ugly  skin  spots  as  if  by  magic! 
This  is  not  a  cover-up  cosmetic; 
Mercolized  Wax  Cream  works 
UNDER  the  skin  surface.  Beautiful  women 
have  used  this  time-tested  plan  for  over  40 
years  —  you'll  love  its  fast,  sure,  longer 
lasting  results!  Mercolized  Wax  Cream  is 
sold  on  a  100%  guarantee  or  money  back. 

MERCOLIZED  WAX  CREAM 

At  All  Drug  and  Cosmetic  Counters 


Ig  hlans 
ark  skin. 

reck  I e  s 
and  ugly 
skin  spots. 


T 
V 
R 

87 


A  DOCTOR'S  FRANK 
ANSWERS  ABOUT 

LOVE  and 
MARRIAGE 


A  TACTICAL  GUlD£ 
^AWTALHAWNfc* 


UN* 


^vin*. 


Ma 


Section  Listing 
Answers  to  Brides'  Questions 
Problems  of  Marriage 
Understanding  Yourself 
Understanding  Your  Husband 
Parents  and  In-laws 
Preparing  Children  for  Marriage 
Divorce  and  Second  Marriage 

J.  here  are  some  questions  a  woman  can't 
discuss  with  anyone.  They're  too  intimate. 
There  are  some  questions  she  can't  put  into 
words;  they're  too  delicate.  There  are  some 
she  may  be  afraid  to  ask.  If  you  are  one  of 
the  millions  of  wives  burdened  with  the  un- 
answered question,  the  unresolved  problem, 
you  may  find  welcome  help  in  THE  MOD- 
ERN BOOK  OF  MARRIAGE. 

AT  ALL  BOOKSTORES — OR 
MAIL  THIS  COUPON  TODAY 


r 


BARTHOLOMEW    HOUSE.    INC. 

Dept.  WGU57 

205  East  42  St..  New  York  17.  N.  Y. 

Send  me  a  copy  of  THE  MODERN  BOOK 
OF  MARRIAGE.  I  enclose  □  $1.00 
(paperbound)     □    $2.00    (hardbound). 

NAME 

(Please  Print) 

STREET 

CITY STATE 


of  Frank's  favorite  stars.  When  it  came 
time  to  make  a  series  of  trailers  for  Sally, 
she  reported  to  Paramount  wardrobe  and 
picked  a  hat  to  wear  in  each  trailer  that 
would  advertise  the  coming  episode.  When 
she  got  home  that  evening,  Frank  asked 
her  what  sort  of  hats  she  had  selected. 

"I  picked  the  ones  you  admired  on  Au- 
drey Hepburn  in  'Funny  Face.'  " 

"But  those  were  models'  hats — creations 
for  display,  not  for  a  woman  to  wear  in 
ordinary    circumstances." 

"You  loved  them  on  Audrey — I  think  the 
audience  will  like  them  on  Sally.  Besides, 
the  hats  models  wear  today  will  be  worn 
by  the  working  women  of  tomorrow." 

Frank  threw  up  his  hands.  "All  right, 
darling.     We'll  give  it  a  chance." 

For  a  finish,  many  of  Joan's  outfits  for 
the  show  were  designed  especially  for  her 
by  Maxwell  Scheiff,  one  of  Hollywood's 
top  designers. 

When  Frank  had  first  come  up  with  this 
idea  for  a  TV  series  and  had  hired  one  of 
video's  cleverest  scriptwriters  to  do  the 
job,  it  became  necessary  to  find  a  name  for 
the  producing  company.  Since  they  were 
both  putting  money  in  it,  Frank  at 
first  suggested  Rosscaul  Company.  Joan 
opened  her  mouth  at  this,  but  caught  her- 
self and  shut  it  again.  "If  you  think  that's 
got  the  right  sound,  it's  fine  with  me,"  was 
her  only  comment.  A  few  days  later,  he 
told  her  it  had  been  decided  to  name  it 
Caulross.  More  euphonious.  "So,  with- 
out a  fuss,  I  got  top  billing  after  all,"  she 
laughs  gleefully. 

On  a  marble  patio  surrounded  by  four 
acres   of   tastefully  landscaped   green   and 


growing  things,  one  of  Hollywood's  love- 
liest ladies  pours  iced  tea  for  a  circle  of 
friends.  They  relax  with  her,  chat,  laugh, 
share  fond  memories.  Suave  and  hand- 
some, her  husband  has  just  come  out  with 
a  guest.  He  has  been  showing  this  friend 
through  the  white  stucco  house — it  was 
designed  in  the  modern  French  manner  by 
architect  John  Woolf  and  decorated  by 
Loretta  Young's  mother,  Mrs.  Gladys  Bel- 
zer.  Both  these  newcomers  stand  listen- 
ing to  the  conversation.  Marie  Windsor 
and  husband  have  come  out  of  the  pool 
and  are  resting  in  the  sun. 

The  new  guest,  as  the  talk  comes  to  a 
lull,  approaches  his  blond  hostess  and 
kisses  her  on  the  cheek.  "So,  Joan  .  .  . 
you've  got  yourself  a  mature  philosophy," 
he  teases.     "So  what  does  it  get  you?" 

Her  skin  glows;  her  blue  eyes  go  large 
and  electric;  her  reply  is  swift,  eager  and 
sincere.  "I  hope  it  will  get  me  happy,"  she 
retorts,  smiling  up  at  her  friend.  "I  hope 
it  will  get  me  the  respect  of  my  husband 
and  my  friends  and  the  people  I  work  with. 
And  I  hope  it  will  get  me  the  approval  of 
my  fans.  Isn't  that  worth  trying  for? 
Isn't  that  enough?" 

A  soft  wind  is  rising:  shadows  from  the 
French  garden  are  beginning  to  scallop  the 
edges  of  the  lawn.  The  household  dog 
lopes  on  to  the  patio  and  settles  at  his 
master's  feet.  Frank  watches,  listens,  nods 
his  head.  An  expression  of  tender  en- 
joyment is  deepening  on  his  face.  His  wife 
is  smiling  at  him  and  he  answers  with  a 
smile  of  his  own.  He  is  content.  The 
loveliest  girl  in  the  world  is  growing 
up.  .  .  . 


Shakespeare  and  the  Showgirl 


(Continued  from  page  32) 
hesitantly,  "Miss  Hall,  I  hope  you  won't 
mind  my  interrupting  like  this — but  I  think 
you're  about  to  lose  that  button!"  Barbara 
looks  down  at  one  of  her  dress  buttons, 
dangling  by  a  single  thread,  blithely  tears 
it  loose.  "Thanks  for  your  kindness,"  she 
smiles  at  the  unknown  woman — who  re- 
plies, "Not  at  all.  And  congratulations!" 
It's  the  third  time  during  dinner  that  a 
stranger  has  come  over  to  the  table,  on 
one  well-intentioned  pretext  or  another, 
to  say,  "Congratulations,  Miss  Hall." 

The  button  incident  points  up  one  inter- 
esting fact.  It  has  now  been  some  fifteen 
shopping  days  since  Barbara  Hall  deposited 
her  $64,000  winnings.  Fifteen  days  since 
she  became  able — if  she  chose — to  swoop 
down  on  Saks,  Bonwit  Teller's  or  Berg- 
dorf  Goodman's  and  buy  the  sleekest, 
chic-est  wardrobe  ever  dreamed  up  by  any 
young  woman.  Instead,  there  she  is,  dining 
out  in  a  button-shy  number  she  probably 
bought  long  ago,  off  some  rack  marked 
"drastically  reduced." 

How  come?  After  all,  clothes,  like  dia- 
monds, are  a  girl's  best  friend.  But 
Barbara  has  a  simple  explanation. 

"Oh,  I've  shopped,"  she  says.  "Window- 
shopped,  that  is.  But  somehow  I  haven't 
really  been  consumed  by  a  need  for  splurg- 
ing on  clothes."  She  adds,  reflectively 
and  seriously,  "You  see,  this  incredible, 
fabulous  break  has  a  very  unique  value 
for  me,  a  very  personal  value  which  simply 
doesn't  translate  into  ownership  of  things 
or  possessions.  A  chi-chi  evening  gown 
wouldn't  express  it.  No,  the  real  value  in 
this  is  the  long-range  security  it  has 
brought  me.  I  can  study  now — continue 
the  training  I  need  to  make  the  grade  in 
my  chosen  field.  The  true  value  of  this 
sudden  fortune  is  that  it's  like  breathing 
oxygen  after  being  confined  to  a  window- 
less   room." 

The  "windowless  room"  is  Barbara's 
figure  of  speech  for  a  long,  long  stretch  of 


striving  to  gain  acceptance  as  a  profes- 
sional actress.  If  one  could  draw  a  chart 
of  Barbara's  morale  during  her  quest  for 
the  recognition  she  seeks,  the  graph  lines 
would  show  up  as  steep-angled  peaks  and 
valleys  representing  a  jittery  mixture  of 
encouraging  plus-es,  of  frustrating  minus- 
es, of  many  compromises  and  second-bests 
— not  to  mention  times  when  Barbara 
didn't  know  where  the  next  day's  meal 
was  coming  from. 

The  highs  and  the  lows  require  very 
little  strain  of  Barbara's  memory.  She 
can  still  vividly  recall  the  optimistic  begin- 
nings as  a  girl  in  suburban  Pittsburgh. 
Well-to-do  family  .  .  .  nice,  substantial 
home  in  middle-class  Mt.  Lebanon  .  .  . 
the  usual  crush  on  the  boy  next  door 
(although  "next  door,"  in  this  instance, 
was  a  whopping  big  farm  adjacent  to  the 
Halls'  own  seven-acre  property).  She 
can  never  forget  the  muscle-ache  and 
sweat  of  six  of  her  young  years  while 
training  for  ballet  at  the  best  private 
school  Pittsburgh  could  boast.  She  can 
still  savor  the  thrill  of  that  first  applause 
cascading  across  the  auditorium  footlights 
when  she  and  her  junior-high  classmates 
acted  "A  Date  With  Judy"  and,  later, 
"Little  Women." 

"When  I  was  graduated  from  high  school, 
I  wanted  to  continue  with  my  ballet  train- 
ing but  couldn't  find  a  college  that  had 
an  adequate  dance  department,"  she  says. 
"I  enrolled  in  the  Drama  School  at  Car- 
negie Institute  of  Technology,  one  of  the 
country's  finest." 

Definitely  a  top-ranking  school;  clearly 
the  explanation  for  her  excellent  back- 
ground in  the  work  of  Elizabethan  drama- 
tists. "I  took  courses  in  Shakespeare," 
Barbara  smiles,  "but  I  was  just  a  C-plus 
student." 

Above  and  beyond  her  academic  endeav- 
ors, Barbara  was  chalking  up  some 
professional  acting  experience  between 
terms.    In  1953,  she  was  resident  ingenue 


with  the  William  Penn  Playhouse.  Ditto, 
1954,  with  the  Little  Lake  Arena 
Theater.  She  played  a  supporting  role  in 
"The  Little  Hut"  at  the  Pittsburgh  Play- 
house in  1955 — the  year  she  earned  her 
Bachelor  of  Fine  Arts  degree  and  was 
graduated  from  Carnegie  Tech  Drama 
School. 

A  decent  enough  start  for  a  young 
hopeful  .  .  .  but  now,  having  bade  fond 
adieu  to  her  ivy-covered  temple  of 
Thespis,  what  next?  More  to  the  point — 
how?  Barbara  had  been  backed  up  by  a 
wealth  of  moral  and  material  support  from 
her  family.  Mother,  dad,  sister — all  of 
them  had  been  unstinting  in  their  approval 
of  Barbara's  intense  drive  to  find  her 
place  in  the  theater  world.  Barbara  agreed 
wholeheartedly  with  her  dad's  summing 
of  the  situation:  She  had  had  every  pos- 
sible advantage;  she'd  received  a  superla- 
tive education;  from  now  on,  it  was  up  to 
her.   She'd  have  to  go  it  alone. 

(jro  she  did — alone  and  quite  far  from 
home,  for  the  first  time  in  her  life.  The 
place?  East  Hampton,  nestled  on  the 
Atlantic  near  the  eastern  tip  of  Long 
Island.  Ironically,  East  Hampton  is  a  vil- 
lage where  the  natives  point  with  pride 
to  the  historic  house  of  John  Howard 
Payne — who  wrote  "Home  Sweet  Home." 
But  Barbara's  reason  for  going  there  was 
the  John  Drew  Theater  (very  prominent 
in  the  straw-hat  circuit)  .  .  .  where  a 
summer-stock  job  kept  her  happily  if  not 
wealthily  busy  during  July  and  August 
of  1955.  As  resident  ingenue,  her  salary 
was  twenty-five  dollars  a  week. 

"After  paying  for  my  room,  my  meals 
and  all  other  expenses,"  she  says,  "I'd 
have  just  about  three  dollars  left.  I  spent 
that  three  dollars  on  a  rented  bike — one 
particular  bike  that  was  assigned  to  me 
all  that  summer.  I  used  to  tell  myself, 
this  bike  is  my  very  own.  When  I  got  time 
away  from  rehearsals  and  other  daytime 
chores  at  the  theater,  the  bike  symbolized 
freedom.  I'd  ride  it  all  around  the  pic- 
turesque East  Hampton  vicinity,  visit 
spots  like  old  Hook  Mill,  a  windmill  built 
in  1806 — or  pedal  along  those  narrow  paths 
out  on  the  sand  dunes,  drinking  in  that 
marvelous  tawny  seascape." 

July  and  August  were  golden  months 
that  passed  all  too  swiftly  in  the  quaint 
seaside  village.  A  hundred  miles  or  so 
due  west,  Broadway  was  astir  with  plans 
for  the  1955-1956  theater  season.  The  John 
Drew  Theater  put  up  its  shutters  and  Bar- 
bara came  to  New  York.  She  soon  had  to 
accept  the  fact  that  none  of  Broadway's 
plans  included  her.  She  soon  began  to 
wish  that  she  hadn't  squandered  her  three- 
dollar-a-week  cash  balance  on  a  rented 
bike. 

"There  were  times  when  I  wrestled  with 
the  temptation  to  write  home  for  money," 
Barbara  admits.  "Despite  Dad's  philosophy 
about  going  it  alone,  he  would  have  sent 
me  a  thousand  dollars  at  the  drop  of  a  hat. 
But  I  knew  that  was  no  solution.  I  knew 
I  wouldn't  be  proving  anything  about 
myself  with  a  handy  crutch  like  that.  I 
just  had  to  hang  on.  It  was  a  case  of  sur- 
vival— of  remaining  within  reach  of  theater 
opportunities — and  so  the  'next  best'  job 
would  have  to  be  considered." 

The  "next  best"  job  turned  out  to  be 
one  in  a  supermarket.  Before  a  series  of 
select,  limited  audiences,  Barbara  Hall 
demonstrated  paper  towels.  Grubby,  com- 
pletely alien  to  her  acting  ambitions,  the 
work  nevertheless  held  the  specter  of 
hunger  at  arm's  length.  Weeks  and  weeks 
of  that  grind — then  Barbara  lined  up  a 
part  in  a  Washington,  D.  C.  production  of 
"Oh,  Men!  Oh,  Women!"  It  opened  in 
January,  1956,  and  by  no  means  threatened 
any  existing  records  for  long  runs.  Before 
many  weeks  went  by  Barbara  was  back  in 
New  York,  again  making  the  rounds. 


Her  next  role  was  another  non -theatrical 
one.  She  worked  as  a  model  in  Saks  Fifth 
Avenue,  where  the  hours  were  in  direct 
conflict  with  the  hours  she  should  be 
spending  in  search  of  another  acting  job. 
In  May,  she  switched  again,  this  time  to  a 
job  with  evening  hours.  She  became  a 
hostess  in  Stouffer's  Restaurant. 

Such  was  the  pattern  of  promise  and 
frustration  .  .  .  the  treadmill  that  demanded 
a  firm,  purposeful  stride  and  led  her 
nowhere.  Barbara  won't  deny  that  there 
were  times  when  self-doubt  occupied 
stage-center  in  her  private  thoughts.  She 
could  have  got  considerable  comfort  out 
of  gazing  into  a  crystal  ball,  though  .  .  . 
with  a  glimpse  of  events  taking  shape  in 
the  new  year  of  1957.  Events — one  very 
public,  the  other  very  personal — were 
definitely  taking  shape. 

It's  in  the  light  of  all  that  preceded  these 
momentous  events  that  Barbara  comments, 
"Yes,  I'm  the  luckiest  woman  in  the 
world.  This  wonderful  stroke  of  good  for- 
tune really  makes  it  complete.  Now  I 
have  an  enormous  sense  of  security — and 
I  also  have  Lucien." 

Lucien  is  the  magic  name  which  Celeste 
Holm  (subbing  for  Hal  March  on  the  night 
the  $64,000  check  was  presented)  tried  to 
elicit  from  Barbara  but  couldn't.  Modesty, 
an  unwillingness  to  place  his  name  in  the 
public  domain — call  it  what  you  will — 
Barbara  side-stepped  that  question.  How- 
ever, she  left  no  doubt  in  the  minds  of 
several  million  viewers  that  there  was 
someone  special  in  her  life.  As  to  his 
identity  .  .  .  Celeste  tried  hard,  a  large 
slice  of  our  population  listened  hard  .  .  . 
but  the  name  was  not  spoken. 

1  o  understand  the  significance  of  that 
name  in  Barbara's  life,  the  spotlight  must 
shift  to  April,  1957 — to  a  brisk  evening  j 
that  began  without  even  a  suspicion  in 
Barbara's  mind  that  either  a  Lucien  or 
$64,000  would  ever  happen  to  her.  "I'd 
been  standing  at  the  entrance  to  Carnegie 
Hall  on  West  Fifty -seventh  Street,  waiting 
for  my  date — a  nice  young  man  with  a 
pleasant  personality  and  an  interesting  job 
on  the  staff  of  a  New  York  art  museum.  It 
wasn't  anything  in  the  'romance'  depart- 
ment— just  a  comfortable,  casual  friend- 
ship. One  notable  thing  about  my  date, 
though.  He  was  always  remarkably  punc- 
tual. I  remember  glancing  at  my  wrist- 
watch  and  realizing  that  something  must 
be  very  wrong.  There  it  was,  more  than 
fifteen  minutes  after  our  six-o'clock  ap- 
pointment. Something  drastic  must  have 
changed  his  plans." 

Another  five  minutes,  Barbara  told  her- 
self. Meanwhile,  she  strolled  around  to 
the  Seventh  Avenue  entrance  just  in  case 
her  friend  meant  that  spot  as  the  meeting 
place.  No  sign  of  her  date.  However,  she 
couldn't  help  noticing  another  young  man 
standing  there.  He,  too,  had  that  "waiting" 
look. 

"I  sensed  immediately  that  he  was  not 
an  American,"  Barbara  recalls.  "It  was 
something  about  the  cut  of  his  clothes,  I 
guess.  He  was  tall — almost  six  feet  tall, 
I'd  say — slim,  and  blond.  Extremely  attrac- 
tive. I  would  have  bet  that  he  came  from 
one  of  the  Scandinavian  countries.  He 
stood  there,  seemed  to  ponder  his  course 
of  action.  Like  me,  he  seemed  sort  of  cast 
adrift.  These  were  mere  impressions,  of 
course — quick  flashes  that  probably  re- 
flected my  own  state  of  mind." 

An  awkward  moment,  indeed.  A  delicate 
(and  fateful)  moment.  Modesty  and  all  the 
tenets  of  Barbara's  suburban  Pittsburgh 
upbringing  should  have  prompted  her  to 
move  quietly  onward,  demurely  in  search 
of  an  eatery  where  she  could  have  her 
lonely  dinner.  Matter  of  fact,  that's 
exactly  what  she  had  begun  to  do  when 
the   young  man   spoke    .    .    . 

"Pardon.  .  .  ." 


GIANT 
COLLECTION 

Hours  and  Hours  of  FUN! 

Here's  everything  a  boy  and  girl   ever 
dreamed   of — Tractors,   Cars,  Trucks,  Space 
Ships,  Circus  Animals,  Farm  Animals,  Rail 
road  Engines  and  Cars,  Soldiers,  Cowboys 
and   Indians,  Tanks,  Bazookas,  Cruisers, 
Tanks,  Artillery,  Farm  Equipment,  Heavy  Road] 
Equipment,  Jets,  Bombers,  Rockets,  etc. 

NOT  AVAILABLE  IN  STORES 

True,  TWO  DIMENSIONAL  reproductions   of 

expensive  toys.  Each   toy  stands  up  on  its  I 

own  base.  Up  to  Wz"  high  and  2%"  long.] 

Limit  —  5  sets  to  a  customer. 

BREA  TOY  MFG.,  Dept.  7611 

BREA  TOY  MFG.,  Dept.  7611 

114  E.  32  St.,  New  York  16,  N.  Y. 

Dear  Sirs:  Please  rush  me sets  of 

GIANT  TOY  COLLECTION    @  $1.00  per  set. 

I  enclose  $ □  Check  □  Cash 

(Sorry  no  C  O.D.'s)  □  Money  Order 


Name..  .. 
Address., 
City 


.Zone.. 


..State.. 


PflFMQ  WANTED 

%£r  MB  I VI  %^    For  musical   setting-    .    .    .    Send 


EXAMINATION:     Any 


Send 
your    Poems    today    for    FREE 
subject.      Immediate     consideration. 


Five  Star  Music  Masters,  265  Beacon  Bldg.,  Boston,  Mass. 


HAVE  YOU  HEARD 

how  easy  it  is  to  earn  extra  money  in  your 
spare  time  by  taking  orders  for  magazine 
subscriptions!  Write  today  for  FREE  money- 
making    information. 

True   Story  Subscription  Sales 
205  East  42  Street,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 


TROUBLED 
WITH 

UNWANTED 
HAIR? 


.nOVlDEHCE  15,  R.  I. 


You    needn't    be!   Now  you    can 

remove    unwanted    hair    forever 

[ —  in  the  privacy  of  your  home 

—  with  the  famous  Mahler  Hair 

:  Removal     Epilator!    Acclaimed 

by    thousands    of    women    who 

have    discovered     how    Mahler 

destroys   the   hair    root   perma- 

sntly!  8y  following  our  instruc* 

ions  you,  too,  can  learn  to  use 

"^the   Mahler  safely  and  effi- 

i  ciently!  Positive  money-back 

guarantee!   Act  todayl 

"lend  5$  for  Illustrated  16-page  } 
booklet   "New  Radiant  Beauty"). 


BffitiJWSfiin  Helen  Gallagher-Foster  House 

GIFT 


fuii 


CATALOG 


[  Mail  coupon  today  for  FREE 
,  copy  of  famous  Helen  Gallagher* 
I  Foster  House  Gift  Catalog — all 
I  in  color.  Gifts  for  every  taste, 
J  for  every  purse,  for  Christmas 
and  every  occasion.  Satisfac 
tion  guaranteed  or  your  money  back 


I     Helen  Gallagher-Foster  House 
413  Fulton  St.,  Dept.  57N3,  Peoria,  III. 
I   Please  rush  my  FREE  copy  of  your  famous  Gift  Catalog. 
I   NAME 


ADDRESS. 


j_POST_OFFICE_.„.„._„„„__.STATE 


89 


T 
V 
R 

90 


ccmeen.  in 

PRACTICAL 
NURSING 


HAVE  A  CAREER  OR  EXTRA  INCOME 

FREE  SAMPLE  LESSON  PAGES  show  how  | 
easily  you  can  qualify  for  choice  of  | 
careers  as  Practical  Nurse,  Nurse's  Aide,  | 
Nurse-Companion,  Doctor's  Office  f 
Nurse,  Infant  Nurse  or  as  Hospital  j 
Attendant.  Learn  at  home  in  your  spare  |k 
time  in  a  few  short  months.  High  school  J 
education  not  required.  Students  ac- 
cepted up  to  65.        ii^n,  fREE  NURSES  F0L0ER 

and  SAMPLE  LESSON  PAGES  M 


Pott  Graduate  School  of  Nursing 
9DII7  Auditorium  Bldg.,  Chicago  5, 

I  NAME 


POEMS 


WANTED 


For  musical  setting  .  .  .  send 
Poems    today.    Any    subject. 

Immediate   consideration.    Phonograph    records    made. 

CROWN  MUSIC  CO.,  49  W.  32  St.,  Studio  560,  New  York  1 


mr 


jEHMAaMMfeaMM 


S«nd  icngi,  poems. Re  cord: 

*fr  HOLLYWOOD  TUNf  SMITHS 


hed.Ut  us  help  you  bt  o  succ*ii. 

1609  Vista  Del  Mar,  Dipt  D, 
mm  Httlywood  28,  California 


NOW!  Save  Up  to  50% 
on  Nationally  Advertised  Gifts 

Use  this  big,  new  FREE  CATA- 
LOG to  buy  all  kinds  of  gifts 
and  merchandise  for  yourself, 
family,  friends,  neighbors.  Ter- 
rific saving  on  big-name  Items. 
Also,  make  money  spare  time 
taking   orders    from    others! 

EVERGREEN   STUDIOS 

Box   846  Chicago  42,    III. 


FREE 

Booklet 

on 

Publishing 

Your 

Book 


If  you  are  the  talented  author 
of  an  unpublished  manuscript, 
let  us  help  gain  the  recognition 
you  deserve.  We  will  publish 
your  BOOK— we  will  edit, design, 
print,  promote,  advertise  and 
sell  it  I  Good  royalties. 

Write  for  FREE  copy  of 

How  To  Publish  Your  Book 

COMET  PRESS  BOOKS,  Dept.WGll 

200  Varick  St..  N.  V.  14 


Doctors  recammmd: 

1UtSQCRQl: 
OF  A  MILLION 
WOMEN... 


y^aM^s^i 


SYRINGE  FOR  WOMEN 


S250- ,„«*»* 

FREE  BOOKLET:  MARVEL  Co.,  13UTW  Eajl  St.,  New  Woven,  Conn. 


Prepare  now,  at  home,  for  a  wonderful  acting  career!  Open 
the  door  that  may  bring  fabulous  Hollywood  or  New  York 
contracts  in  TV,  Movies,  the  Theater!  New  faces,  new  tal- 
ent, are  urgently  needed!  Real  opportunity  for  men  and 
women  of  all  ages!  Learn  latest  acting  techniques,  direction, 
show  business  "success  secrets"!  Develop  new  poise  ,  vi- 
brant personality  as  you  mould  your  basic  talent.  We've 
helped  countless  others  ...  let  us  show  you  the  way. 
rnrr  I  "Talent  Aptitude"  Test.  Nothing  like  it  ever!  Lets  you 
LULL)     rate    your    talent    against    "studio    requirements." 

If  under  14  yeare  of  aee,  writes  to  Dcpt.  X. 
Write  for  FREE  "Tesf"&  "Success  Plan"!  No  salesman  will  call.A 

•  HOLLYWOOD  ROYAL  ACADEMY  • 
(Studio  5J         5880  Hollywood  Blvd.,  Hollywood  28,  Calif^ 


The  accent  was  French.  Barbara  experi- 
enced an  inward  jolt  of  surprise.  And  she 
had  had  the  chap  pegged  as  a  Dane  or  a 
Norwegian! 

Gesturing  toward  a  telephone  booth 
inside  the  building  entrance,  the  young 
man  said,  "I  am  trying  to  make  a  call. 
Please,  could  you  give  me  change  for  a 
half-dollar?"  Barbara  obligingly  dug  into 
her  coat  pocket,  opened  her  purse  and 
fetched  out  a  quarter,  two  dimes  and  a 
nickel.  The  blond  young  man  exchanged 
coins  and   uttered  profuse  thanks. 

"He  spent  a  remarkably  short  time  inside 
that  phone  booth,"  Barbara  recalls — add- 
ing, "and  I  suppose  I  lingered  outside  too 
long  a  time.  Maybe  I  rationalized  it  by 
telling  myself  I'd  wait  just  a  few  more 
minutes  for  that  date  of  mine  to  show  up." 

Voila.  In  no  time  at  all  her  French- 
accented  Scandinavian  again  was  standing 
near,  looking  even  more  lost,  more  forlorn. 
Obviously,  his  call  had  resulted  in  a 
"doesn't  answer."  Now  he  brought  out  a 
pack  of  cigarettes  and  fumbled  elaborately 
and  unsuccessfully  for  a  match.  His  blue 
eyes  caught  Barbara's.  He  shrugged  his 
shoulders.  The  gesture  seemed  to  say, 
"Again,  I  need  a  small  favor.  .  .  ." 

Barbara  dug  into  her  pocket  a  second 
time  and  took  out  a  book  of  matches.  A 
flame  was  lit.  It  has  been  burning  intensely 
ever  since.  .  .  .  Looking  back  at  that 
strange  moment,  Barbara  insists  she  was 
determined  not  to  reveal  that  her  own 
date  had  failed  to  show  up.  It  seems  that 
her  determination  wavered  somewhere 
during  that  fateful  little  interval  of  cau- 
tious small-talk  after  the  blond  young  man 
lighted  his  cigarette.  It  seems  that  he 
intuitively  understood  the  situation  and 
quickly  made  it  clear  that  he,  too,  had  been 
left  stranded.  Then  he  put  forth  the 
philosophical  argument  that  it  would  be 
wasteful  and  unintelligent  for  each  of 
them  to  go  their  separate  ways- — alone  and 
forsaken — and  would  she  please  have  din- 
ner with  him? 

Barbara  Hall — the  gal  for  whom  poise 
and  nonchalance  are  a  professional  "must," 
the  gal  who  was  later  to  stand  up  before 
an  audience  of  millions,  calmly  answering 
difficult  posers  concerning  the  works  of 
Will  Shakespeare — was  panicked  and  flus- 
tered by  the  sudden  suggestion. 

Dinner!  And  there  she  was,  wearing 
faded  blue  jeans  and  a  vivid  Italian- styled 
sports  blouse  under  her  camel-hair  polo 
coat.  What's  more,  she  had  precious  little 
ready  cash  in  her  change  purse — and  it 
was  a  rule  with  her  not  to  let  new 
acquaintances  pick  up  the  restaurant 
check.  .  .  .  However,  even  the  most  strin- 
gent rule  had  its  exceptions,  she  reasoned. 
And  she  was  faced  with  the  alternative  of 
a  cheeseburger,  eaten  in  lonely  silence. 
And — that  was  a  charming  accent  accom- 
panying the  young  man's  otherwise  excel- 
lently spoken  English.  And — he  did  have 
that  small-boy  air  of  helplessness,  of 
aloneness  in  a  strange  city. 

After  thus  weighing  the  various  factors, 
Barbara  said  yes,  she  would  accept  his 
invitation  to  dinner.  A  strange  encounter, 
she  told  herself.  In  a  way  that  was  hard 
to  define,  it  contained  more  than  a  small 
tingle  of  excitement.  Sensing  it  but  not 
actually  knowing  it  yet  (not  any  more 
than  she  could  know  of  the  other  good 
fortune  destined  to  come  her  way),  Bar- 
bara Hall  had  begun  her  climb  to  a  plateau 
loftier,  even,  than  any  that  Hal  March 
would  ever  point  to. 

And  so  she  dined  with  the  stranger,  the 
handsome  young  Frenchman — whose  name, 
she  learned,  was  Lucien  Verdoux.  His 
home  was  Paris.  His  second  "home"  was 
New  York  and,  approximately  every  six 
days,  the  duties  of  his  job  set  him  down  in 
either  place.  Lucien's  job?  Trans-Atlantic 
airline   pilot. 


The  food  they  ate  in  a  little  restaurant 
in  Manhattan's  West  Fifties  is  scarcely 
remembered  by  Barbara.  Vividly  stamped 
in  her  memory  is  Lucien's  word-picture 
of  his  own  Paris.  Lucien's  words  became  a 
window  through  which  she  saw  the  wide 
boulevards,  the  gaiety  of  night  life  in 
boites  like  La  Lune  Rousse  on  the  Rue 
Pigalle  .  .  .  places  like  the  Cirque  Med- 
rano  drawing  crowds  in  another  part  of 
Montmartre  ...  or  gory  melodrama  being 
enacted  at  the  Theatre  du  Grand  Guignol. 
Of  the  art  galleries  and  the  concert  halls 
...  of  the  beauty  of  Notre  Dame  seen 
from  a  bridge  on  the  Seine. 

Understandable  for  a  Lucien  Verdoux 
to  speak  with  such  love  about  his  native 
city.  After  all,  Barbara  had  known  fellow- 
Americans  who  described  Paris  in  glowing 
phrases.  Presently,  though,  she  and  Lucien 
were  discussing  New  York,  and  other 
aspects  of  America.  A  delighted,  fascinated 
Barbara  sat  listening  as  Lucien  spoke  with 
the  same  ardor,  the  same  first-hand 
knowledge  about  the  joys  of  Jones  Beach, 
about  a  pilot's-eye  view  of  stately  Wash- 
ington, D.  C,  at  sunset,  about  American 
movies — "I  am  mad  about  your  Westerns!" 
— and  especially  about  jazz.  She  learned 
that,  for  Lucien,  jazz  was  not  merely 
another  enthusiasm — it  was  almost  a  way 
of  life.  He  had  heard  every  style  of  it 
played,  listened  to  it  in  every  kind  of  place 
in  the  States  and  on  the  Continent. 

And  they  discussed  Barbara,  too — with 
Lucien's  eyes  intently  and  seriously  on 
hers  as  she  traced  her  job-by-job,  frustra- 
tion-by-frustration  journey  to  nowhere. 
She  spoke  of  her  more  recent  steps  in  this 
journey,  spoke  of  the  expediency  that 
caused  her  to  take  a  job  "on  the  line"  at 
the  Copacabana — one  of  Manhattan's 
smart-smart  night  spots,  but  certainly  not 
her  true  goal  .  .  .  and  then  to  her  present, 
bread-and-butter  job  again  as  a  showgirl 
in  the  1957  edition  of  the  "Ziegfeld 
Follies." 

And  so,  on  an  evening  in  April,  the  first 
momentous  event  had  taken  place  .  .  . 
the  personal  one.  Shortly  after,  Barbara 
was  saying  to  herself,  Only  a  few  hours, 
and  I  feel  I've  known  him  all  my  life. 

Now  to  the  second,  the  public  event.  It 
is  June — some  weeks  later — with  the  sun 
bravely  trying  to  brighten  the  drabness 
of  an  old  five-storey  tenement  house  not 
far  from  a  bridge  that  spans  Manhattan's 
East  River.  On  the  top  floor,  inside  her 
$26-a-month  cold-water  walk-up,  Barbara 
answers  the  telephone.  It  is  a  call  from 
the  $64,000  Question  office.  Listening  to 
the  voice  with  combined  elation  and  dis- 
belief, Barbara  hears  the  producer's  Girl 
Friday  say,  in  effect:  "Got  your  interesting 
letter.  Saw  your  photograph.  Come  on 
over  and  fill  out  an  application." 

That  was  Barbara's  "ready"  cue.  Waiting 
in  the  wings,  so  to  speak,  she  did  some 
prodigious  Shakespeare  cramming  and 
presently  went  "on  stage"  for  a  perform- 
ance that  won  the  hearts  of  millions. 

Barbara  Hall — actress,  showgirl,  scholar 
— regards  herself  as  a  double  winner.  Of 
her  other  prize,  she  says,  "I've  had 
romances  with  young  men  during  college, 
but  they  are  paled  to  insignificance  by  my 
relationship  with  Lucien.  We  have  this 
constant  sense  of  instinctively  sharing  the 
same  appreciation  for  things,  thinking  the 
same  ideas,  enjoying  the  same  things.  We 
have  no  need  for  glamour.  Why,  we  can 
be  dressed  in  blue  jeans  and  sitting  on  a 
junk  heap  and  feel  we're  on  top  of  the 
world!" 

And  Barbara  also  says,  "I'm  going  to 
study  up  on  jazz  as  I  did  Shakespeare.  I'm 
going  to  work  twice  as  hard  so  that  I  can 
match  Lucien's  appreciation  of  jazz." 

And  Barbara  further  says,  "I  want  our 
children  to  speak  French— and  I'm  going 
to  speak  it  along  with  them." 


More  Than  a  "Movie  Star" 


(Continued  from  page  56) 
Madeleine  recalls.  "I  was  always  happy 
to  write  those  notes,  but  I  couldn't  have 
felt  less  like  a  movie  star.  As  a  matter 
of  fact,  I  never  meant  to  be  a  movie  star 
at  all.  I  wanted  to  be  a  doctor.  Nothing 
dramatic,  just  a  general  practitioner  like 
Anne  Gentry,  the  part  I  play  five  times 
a  week  on  radio.  This  role  is,  in  a  way, 
a  childhood  dream  come  true." 

The  war  years  were  not  exactly  the  sort 
of  stuff  that  dreams  are  made  of,  but 
Madeleine,  like  countless  others  who  went 
through  them,  emerged  with  an  entirely 
new  approach  to  life,  with  a  deeper  un- 
derstanding, not  only  of  the  needs  of  the 
body  but  the  needs  of  the  human  heart. 

Proof  that  this  feeling  she  has  for 
people  comes  across  in  her  NBC  Radio 
show,  The  Affairs  Of  Dr.  Gentry,  is  evi- 
denced in  the  fan  mail,  so  different  from 
most  of  the  letters  she  got  in  Hollywood. 
These  are  from  serious,  intelligent  people, 
some  of  them  in  the  medical  profession. 
Madeleine  is  particularly  proud  of  those 
from  doctors'  families,  who  tell  her  they've 
"never  sensed  a  false  note."  Others  com- 
ment on  Anne's  professional  manner  with 
her  patients — her  warmth  and  under- 
standing. If  there  were  awards  for  "per- 
fect casting,"  Dr.  Gentry's  producer,  Hi 
Brown,  would  be  collecting  them  all. 

"There's  hardly  an  incident  in  the  Anne 
Gentry  scripts  that  doesn't  ring  a  bell  in 
my  memory  of  those  war  years,"  Made- 
leine reports.  "I  particularly  enjoy  the 
rivalry  between  Anne  and  Philip  Hamilton, 
the  surgeon.  I  saw  so  much  of  that  sort 
of  thing  in  hospitals  overseas.  Even  though 
they  must  work  together,  the  two  great 
powers  of  medicine  and  surgery  seem 
always  in  conflict.  The  surgeon  is  in- 
clined to  think  of  himself  as  godlike — 
which  isn't  strange,  I  suppose,  when  you 
have  the  skill  to  tie  a  bit  of  brain  together. 
The  physician  feels  that  he  is  the  one 
who  cures,  and  thinks  of  the  surgeon  as 
a  good  carpenter  or  technical  man.  They'd 
rather  die  than  admit  it,  but  it's  true,  and 
it's    fascinating   to    watch    and   listen   to." 

The  Gentry  show  premiered  in  Jan- 
uary of  this  year  and,  from  the  begin- 
ning, Madeleine  has  been  delighted  by 
the  literacy  and  charm  of  its  scripts.  She 
made  only  one  suggestion.  She  thought 
Anne  was  "a  little  too  antiseptic"  at  the 
start.  Too  holier-than-thou.  She  called 
writer  David  Driscoll  and  said,  "Now  that 
Anne  has  been  established  as  a  very  moral 
person,  can't  we  pep  her  up  a  little?  Let 
her  fall  on  her  face  or  something?  She 
ought  to  buy  a  silly  hat  once  in  a  while, 
have  a  harmless  flirtation.  After  all,  she  is 
a  widow."  David  agreed,  and  that's  how 
art-dealer  Paul  Luger  was  born. 

Madeleine  has  affection  for  all  the  char- 
acters in  the  show,  and  a  deep  respect  for 
the  actors  who  play  them.  "They  are 
all  so  good.  That's  one  reason  why  the 
recording  sessions  go  so  smoothly.  I've 
gotten  so  I  look  forward  to  Thursdays, 
when  we  record  all  five  episodes  for  the 
following  week.  The  studio  is  very  re- 
laxed and  very  quiet.  So  concentrated  it's 
almost  like  prayer." 

No  Trappist  monk,  the  sound  engineer 
took  occasion  at  least  once  to  liven  the 
proceedings.  One  day,  while  the  cast 
was  rehearsing  a  scene  in  which  Paul 
Luger  is  showing  Anne  a  delicate,  price- 
less Ming  bowl,  the  sound  man  deliberate- 
ly dropped  one  of  the  5-and-10  variety. 
"For  an  instant,  our  instinctive  reaction 
was  one  of  shock  and  horror,"  Madeleine 
recalls.  "Then  we  burst  into  a  sort  of 
hysterical  laughter." 

Anne  herself  has  few  opportunities  for 
this  sort  of  good-natured  fun.     Madeleine 


sees  her  as  a  woman  who  is  dedicated,  and 
who  lives  under  the  constant  strain  of 
career-versus-motherhood.  "I  understand 
her  problems  very  well,  her  tremendous 
devotion  to  medicine  and  to  her  children, 
Rod  and  Carol." 

In  private  life,  Madeleine  has  no  trouble 
matching  Anne  in  the  domestic  depart- 
ment, either.  Married  to  publisher  An- 
drew Heiskell,  she  has  an  adorable  brown- 
eyed  daughter,  Anne-Madeleine,  age  six, 
and  very  definite  ideas  on  what  it  takes 
to  make  a  marriage  work.  Her  first  hus- 
band, British  Captain  Philip  Astley,  was 
very  tolerant  about  her  career,  but  he 
was  in  England  while  she  seemed  to  be 
in  Hollywood  most  of  the  time.  "Mar- 
riage has  to  be  lived  together,"  she  says. 

The  Andrew  Heiskells  do  just  that. 
They  have  a  duplex  apartment  in  New 
York  overlooking  the  East  River,  for  en- 
tertaining and  an  occasional  late  night  on 
the  town,  and  a  twelve-room  white  Co- 
lonial house,  complete  with  guest  cottage, 
on  the  Sound  in  Darien,  Connecticut.  The 
average  commuter  might  well  cast  an 
envious  eye  at  their  well-ordered  world 
and  hesitate  to  refer  to  them  as  "typical 
suburbanites."  Actually,  nothing  would 
delight  the  Heiskells  more. 

"Except  on  Thursdays,  when  I  go  into 
town  to  record,  I'm  a  typical  housewife," 
Madeleine  gaily  explains.  "I'm  up  at  seven, 
drive  my  husband  to  the  station  for  the 
eight-o'clock  train,  then  back  to  take  the 
little  one  to  school.  Next  there's  shopping, 
gardening,  the  mail.     Time  flies!" 

Suddenly,  it's  three  o'clock.  Anne- 
Madeleine  is  home  and  the  "cookies  and 
milk"  set  must  be  organized. 

"We  always  make  a  big  occasion  of 
Daddy  coming  home,"  Madeleine  says. 
"I  meet  the  train  at  ten  to  seven.  Mean- 
while, the  stage  has  already  been  set.  All 
toys  have  been  picked  up  and  stored 
away,  a  bowl  of  ice  made  ready  for 
drinks.  Then  Anne -Madeleine  has  her 
bath  and  changes  into  a  fresh  dress.  She 
looks  forward  eagerly  to  Daddy's  arrival. 
It  is  the  most  important  part  of  our  day." 

In  his  role  as  publisher  of  Life  and  a 
vice-president  of  Time,  Andrew  Heiskell 
travels  a  good  deal.  Madeleine  tries  al- 
ways to  accompany  him.  So  far  this 
year,  they  have  been  to  Europe,  as  well 
as  to  Chicago,  Washington,  Houston  and 
White  Sulphur  Springs.  Because  she  is 
a  woman  with  a  conscience,  she  worries 
about  leaving  her  daughter. 

"Somehow,"  she  says,  "there  is  never  a 
right  time  to  leave  a  child."  Fortunately, 
there  is  "Grandmere,"  Madeleine's  French 
mother,  who  has  been  living  with  them 
for  the  past  three  years.  "Andrew  is  such 
fun  with  Mother  around  the  house,"  Made- 
leine confides.  "He  speaks  French  like  a 
native.  He  was  born  abroad  and  spent 
the  first  twenty  years  of  his  life  there. 
Mother  loves  it  when  he  refers  to  her  as 
our  'built-in  baby-sitter.' " 

For  a  couple  who  must,  of  necessity, 
do  a  tremendous  amount  of  reading,  there 
could  be  no  more  perfect  haven  than  their 
charming,  three-story  home,  with  its 
broad  expanse  of  lawn  sweeping  down  to 
the  water.  The  living  room  is  large,  with 
French  doors  opening  onto  a  terrace.  The 
furnishings  are  primarily  Louis  XV,  Pro- 
vincial, with  an  occasional  exception  like 
the  color  television  set.  There  is  a  built- 
in  bookcase  along  one  wall  and  a  spinet 
which  Anne-Madeleine  is  learning  to 
play.  The  Henry  IV  table  at  the  back  of 
the  divan  bears  two  large,  very  old,  very 
fragile  Chinese  lamps — mute  testimony  to 
the  quiet  manners  of  the  Heiskells'  two 
Sealyhams,  Susy  and  Robbie,  who  have 
the  run  of  the  house. 


EARN  BIG  MONEY 

as  a  SEWING  MACHINE  f' 
OPERATOR!       ^U 


The  Booming 
Garment 
Industry  Needs 

YOU !  No  matter  what  your  age  or  previous  ex- 
perience, you  can  get  a  good  job,  paying  up  to 
$100  weekly,  as  a  sewing  machine  operator!  Work 
at  home  or  in  a  garment  plant.  Thousands  of  job 
openings  all  over  the  U.  S. 

Train  at  home  in  spare  time!  We  teach 
you  factory  sewing  secrets  and  methods  by  easy- 
to-understand,  factory  approved  system.  You  learn 
by  doing.  Even  earn  good  money  while  you  learn! 

FREE  PLACEMENT  and  ADVISORY  SERVICE 

Valuable  FREE  Book... gives 

you  full  information  about 
sewing  opportunities,  training 
for  the  Garment  Industry... 
INCLUDED  FREE!  Instructions 
for  making  your  own  dress 
form... how  to  start  a 
profitable  business.  Use  coupon 
now  for  this  valuable  book! 


HOLLYWOOD  GARMENT 

TD/lnrc    CPUnol     58eo  HOLLYWOOD  BLVD. 
IKHUtO   OLHUUL    HOLLYWOOD,  CALIF. 


SEND  IN  THIS  COUPON  NOW!      * 

Hollywood  Garment  Trades  School,  Dept.  TV-117      I 
5880  Hollywood  Blvd.,  Hollywood  28,  Calif. 

Rush  me  my  free  Sewing  Opportunities  Book  and 
other  data.  (No  obligation,  no  salesman  will  call.) 


I       NAME 

1 

STRFET 

1 

CITY 

70NF       STATF 

1 
I 

SONG  POEMS  WANTED 

To  be  set  to  music.   Send  your  poems  today  for  free 
examination! 

J.  CHAS.   McNEIL,    (A.   B.   Master  of   Music) 
510-MG  So.  Alexandria  Los  Angeles  5,  Calif. 


Big  Demand  for  chil- 
dren's photos,  ages  1 
mo.  to  18yrs.  Cash  payments  made  if  used 
for  advertising.  Hundreds  selected  every 
month.  Send  1  small  photo  for  approval. 
Print  child's  &  mother's  name,  address 
on  back.  Returned  2  weeks.  No  Obligation. 

HOLLYWOOD  AD-PHOTOS 
6087-HK  Sunset,  Hollywood  28,  California 


FREE 


SAMPLE  for  ARTHRITIS 

Rheumatism  and  Bursitis  Sufferers 

Hi°ftBi!  rtTJ?T  I  Write  today  for  FREE  SAMPLE  of 
WO  VQ5T|  RHUAR,  a  new  scientific  wonder 

MHMMMM  formula  guaranteed  to  bring  quick 
relief  from  miseries  of  Arthritis,  Rheumatism, 
Bursitis,  Neuritis,  Sciatica,  Lumbago,  in  practically  every 
case.  RHUAR  is  a  tested  and  proved  prescription  formula. 
Try  before  you  buy!  For  FREE  S*  MPLE  write  today  to 
RHUAR,  100  W.  Chicago  Ave.,  Dept.  TS-1 1 ,  Chicago  10,  III. 

SOFT  CORNS 


Between  the  Toes? 


Right  Back  On  Your  Feet ! 
Soft  Corns  occur  only  between  the  toes.  To  speedily 
relieve  and  quickly  remove  them,  use  Dr.  Scholl's 
Zino-pads  in  the  special  size  and  shape  for  Soft 
Corns  (Soft  Corn  size).  Be  sure  to  ask  for  them 
by  that  name.  At  Drug,  Sho|e,  Dept.,  5-10i  Stores. 


D-rScholls  Zino-pads 


T 
V 
R 

91 


In  contrast  to  the  pale  yellow  draperies 
in  the  living  room,  the  floor  is  carpeted 
in  brown.  Before  the  fireplace  there  is 
a  large  rug  of  a  soft  Chinese  red,  and 
sitting  easily  upon  it  are  a  large  divan, 
coffee  table  and  three  easy  chairs.  The 
divan  and  two  of  the  chairs  wear  slip- 
covers of  block  linen  combining  yellow, 
brown,  pale  green  and  the  same  soft 
Chinese  red  in  a  French  pattern  chosen 
primarily  for  "dogs  and  children." 

Madeleine's  study  is  on  the  second  floor, 
a  charming  room  reflecting  the  warmth  of 
her  own  personality.  There  are  built- 
in  bookcases  lining  the  rear  wall  and,  at 
the  front,  windows  overlooking  the  water. 
Framed  above  her  desk  are  two  of  her 
dearest  possessions— the  French  Legion  of 
Honor  award  for  her  post-war  work  with 
Europe's  lost  children  and  in  the  rehabili- 
tation of  returnees  from  concentration 
camps,  and  the  U.  S.  Medal  of  Freedom, 
this  country's  highest  civilian  award. 
Madeleine  became  an  American  citizen  in 
1943,  but  her  affection  for  her  native  Eng- 
land is  apparent.  "When  I  look  out  over 
the  water,"  she  says  wistfully,  "it's  nice 
to  know  there's  nothing  between  us  and 
Europe  but  two  lighthouses." 

.Living  on  the  water  has  its  disad- 
vantages, though,  she  is  frank  to  admit. 
During  the  last  hurricane,  there  was  sea- 
weed all  over  the  third-story  windows. 
"But  we  love  it,"  she  says.  "Weekends,  we 
sail  together.  Oh,  not  at  all  in  the  grand 
manner.  We  have  two  small  boats.  A 
kayak,  which  you  blow  up,  for  paddling 
or  sailing,  and  a  'sail  fish'  with  a  keel  and 
sail.  It  holds  three  and  we  often  take 
Anne-Madeleine,  lashed  to  the  mast.  She 
doesn't  swim  very  well." 

What  she  lacks  in  the  aquatic  depart- 
ment Anne-Madeleine  makes  up  in  charm. 
An  intelligent,  dignified  child  given  to 
changing  her  dresses  three  times  a  day, 
she  can  usually  wind  the  other  small  fry 
right  around  her  finger.  But,  when  she 
needs  help  in  the  gentle  art  of  persuasion, 
there  is  always  Mother. 

"She  came  in  one  day,"  Madeleine  says, 
"complaining  that  her  best  friend,  Billy 
Mitchell,  wouldn't  go  down  to  the  beach. 
I  told  her  to  try  asking  him  very  sweetly, 
to  say,  'Billy,  dear,  won't  you  please  do 
it  for  me?'  It  worked — but  then  I  got  to 
wondering  if  the  child  psychologists  would 
approve!" 

Madeleine's  own  childhood  was  a  study 
in  contrasts.  Born  in  West  Bromwich, 
England,  of  a  French  mother  and  an  Irish 
father,  she  led  a  "very  poor  but  sheltered" 
life,  so  uneventful  that,  had  there  been  any 
gypsies  to  foretell  her  exciting  future,  no- 
body would  have  believed  it.  John  Car- 
roll, a  professor  of  languages  at  the  Uni- 
versity of  Birmingham,  was  a  brilliant 
man  but  a  strict  disciplinarian  with  a 
penchant  for  saying  no.  "Mother,  bless  her, 
used  to  take  my  sister  and  me  for  long 
walks  and  all  three  of  us  would  laugh 
loudly  at  the  silliest  things,  just  for  sheer 
relief  of  pent-up  emotion." 

Small  wonder  that  the  child  Madeleine 
spent  many  hours  with  her  nose  buried 
in  the  books  her  mother  had  brought  from 
France.  Before  she  was  twelve,  she  had 
read,   in  French,   everything   from   Balzac 


to  Zola.  Not  to  mention  every  book  on 
medicine  that  she  could  lay  her  hands  on. 
She  doesn't  remember  the  time  she  didn't 
want  to  be  a  doctor. 

She  wanted  to  get  a  medical  degree  at 
the  University  of  Birmingham,  but  her 
father  insisted  she  carry  on  in  his  field — 
philology.  Bitterly  disappointed  and  re- 
sentful, Madeleine  ignored  her  own 
classmates  and,  much  to  her  father's  dis- 
pleasure, sought  out  the  medical  students, 
whom  she  was  sometimes  able  to  persuade 
to  sneak  her  into  the  dissecting  room, 
where  she  never  "batted  an  eye." 

This  same  courageous  spirit,  which  has 
been  so"  evident  throughout  her  career, 
stood  her  in  good  stead  when,  four  years 
later,  she  was  faced  with  her  first  impor- 
tant decision.  Chosen  by  her  fellow  stu- 
dents to  play  the  lead  in  the  senior  play, 
she  received — as  a  result  of  her  excellent 
performance — an  offer  to  join  the  Bir- 
mingham Repertory  Company,  profes- 
sional birthplace  of  such  celebrated  stars 
as  John  Gielgud,  Laurence  Olivier  and 
Ralph  Richardson.  Once  again  father  said 
no,  and,  with  the  magnificent  defiance  of 
an  Elizabeth  Barrett,  Madeleine  left  her 
father's  house.  For  two  weeks,  she  tutored 
the  children  of  a  Polish  second-hand  deal- 
er and,  with  the  magnificent  sum  of  thir- 
ty-two shillings,  set  out  for  London  to  be 
interviewed  for  a  teaching  job. 

For  three  months,  she  taught  French  at 
a  private  school  in  Brighton.  But  the 
stage  bug  had  bitten  deep,  and  when 
her  performance  in  an  amateur  show 
prompted  a  total  stranger  to  write  and  ad- 
vise her  to  consider  the  theater  seriously 
as  a  career,  Madeleine  turned  her  back  on 
teaching  forever.  She  wrote  to  Dennis 
Eaidie,  an  actor-manager  in  London,  and 
this  started  a  chain  of  events  that  resulted 
in  her  touring  in  several  road  shows. 
When  a  nationwide  search  was  launched 
to  discover  "the  ideal  British  film  type," 
Madeleine  applied  for  a  screen  test  and 
won.  The  resultant  publicity  skyrocketed 
her  to  stardom  overnight. 

Outstanding  among  the  films  she  made 
for  Gaumont-British  were  "I  Was  a  Spy" 
and  "The  39  Steps,"  directed  by  Alfred 
Hitchcock.  It  was  the  latter  which 
prompted  Walter  Wanger  to  sign  her  for 
Paramount  Pictures.  Before  she  sailed  for 
Hollywood,  in  1936,  she  had  also  starred 
on  the  London  stage  in  such  plays  as  "Mr. 
Pickwick,"  with  Charles  Laughton,  and 
"Beau  Geste,"  with  Laurence  Olivier. 

Not  exactly  amateurs  in  the  promotion 
department,  Hollywood  exploited  Made- 
leine's talents  and  delicate  beauty  until 
she  became  a  household  word.  As  Bob 
Hope's  "Favorite  Blonde,"  she  was  feted 
the  length  and  breadth  of  the  land  and 
made  many  guest  and  dramatic  appear- 
ances on  radio.  "I  did  Cavalcade  Of 
America  so  often,"  she  recalls,  "the  wits 
were  soon  calling  it  'Carrollcade.' "  She 
made  approximately  fifteen  films  in  Holly- 
wood. Among  them,  "The  General  Died 
at  Dawn,"  "The  Prisoner  of  Zenda," 
"Lloyd's  of  London,"  "My  Son,  My  Son." 

Madeleine's  last  film,  before  she  turned 
her  back  on  Hollywood  to  participate  in 
the  war  effort,  was  "One  Night  in  Lisbon," 
with  Fred  MacMurray,  a  light  comedy 
based  on  "fun  and  games  in  a  bomb  shel- 


T 
V 
R 

92 


THE  LADIES  HAVE  THEIR  SAY: 

'Why  Women  Hate  Being  Called  Housewives" — a  frank  interview  with  Arlene  Francis 

• 

"I  Lost  Fifty-Seven  Pounds" — Dorothy  Olsen  Tells  How 

There'll  be  such  male  favorites  as  Hal  March  and  Frank  Sinatra,  too,  in 

December    TV   RADIO  MIRROR        •         at  your  newsstand  November  5 


ter."  So  closely  did  events  of  the  story 
approximate  those  surrounding  the  death 
of  her  sister,  who  was  killed  during  an  air 
raid  in  London  in  1940,  that  Madeleine 
refused  to  do  it.  "The  studio  threatened 
to  sue  if  I  didn't  go  through  with  it,"  she 
recalls  bitterly.  "It  made  me  ill,  having  to 
re-enact  the  scenes  where  the  bombs  fell, 
just  as  it  happened  to  Margaret." 

At  the  completion  of  the  picture,  she 
asked  for  a  leave  of  absence  and  quit 
Hollywood  to  work  as  Entertainment  Di- 
rector for  the  United  Seamen's  Service  in 
New  York.  A  year  later,  eager  to  take  a 
more  active  part  in  the  war  effort,  she  took 
some  "quick  courses"  at  the  Red  Cross  in 
psychiatry,  social  service  and  rudimentary 
first-aid.  In  1943 — having  signed  a  docu- 
ment in  Washington  relinquishing  thea- 
trical work  for  the  duration — Red  Cross 
hospital-worker  Madeleine  Carroll,  in  the 
most  significant  role  of  her  fabulous  ca- 
reer, sailed  for  Africa  and  then  on  to  Italy. 
Here  she  tended  the  wounded  from  Monte 
Cassino  and  Anzio,  and  followed  the  allied 
advance  into  France,  ultimately  working 
on  a  hospital  train  which  picked  up 
wounded  at  the  front  and  took  them  to 
base  hospitals. 

"The  trick  was  to  go  as  far  into  German 
territory  as  you  could  and  then  retreat." 
she  explains.  "The  Germans  had  little  re- 
spect for  the  neutrality  of  the  Red  Cross. 
Several  of  our  hospital  trains  were  sabo- 
taged. With  wreckage  across  the  main 
railroad,  supplies  couldn't  get  through  to 
the  front." 

In  a  man's  war,  Madeleine's  beauty  and 
fame  were  both  an  advantage  and  a  dis- 
advantage. The  scales  weighed  heavily  in 
her  favor  with  many  difficult  cases  who 
recognized  her  from  the  screen,  "even 
with  muddy  boots  and  dirty  face."  But  the 
less  seriously  wounded  were  a  constant 
problem,  "making  like  wolves  in  the  mid- 
dle of  Times  Square."  They  enjoyed  teas- 
ing her  with,  "You're  not  the  Madeleine 
Carroll."  And  she  would  reply,  "Of  course 
not.  I'm  the  poor  man's  Madeleine  Car- 
roll." She  smiles  as  she  recalls,  "This 
good-natured  banter  would  strike  us  all  as 
hilarious  at  three  o'clock  in  the  morning." 

Her  most  satisfying  work  came  with  the 
badly  disfigured  and  the  amputees,  many 
of  whom  she  sent  to  Dr.  Howard  Rusk, 
who  headed  an  important  Air  Force  re- 
habilitation program  in  the  States.  "I'd 
try  to  impress  the  boys  with  this,"  Made- 
leine explains  solemnly.  "I'd  tell  them  we 
were  going  to  take  the  word  'cripple'  right 
out  of  the  dictionary.  They  were  going  to 
have  a  job,  drive  a  car,  hold  their  girl. 
They  were  skeptical,  at  first.  The  ones 
who  had  girls  were  sure  they  would  never 
look  at  them  again.  I'd  say,  'Listen,  you 
tell  your  girl  Madeleine  Carroll  will  date 
you  any  time.'    It  seemed  to  help." 

Many  of  those  who  enjoyed  Madeleine's 
excellent  performance  in  the  smash 
Broadway  play,  "Goodbye,  My  Fancy,"  in 
1948,  found  themselves  wondering  if  the  ^ 
play's  references  to  Life  Magazine  had  any 
bearing  on  her  marriage  to  the  publisher 
of  that  periodical.  "The  answer  is  no," 
says  Madeleine.  "Andrew  and  I  met  for 
the  first  time  in  1940.  It  was  on  a  Pan- 
American  Clipper  out  of  Portugal.  Hitler 
was  on  the  march.  I  was  feeling  miser- 
able. Andrew  started  talking  to  me  and  I 
soon  realized  his  mood  was  as  dark  as 
mine.  He  had  been  managing  the  Paris 
office  of  Time  and  was  on  his  way  back  to 
the  States.  We  talked  all  through  the 
night." 

They  had  no  way  of  knowing  then,  these 
two,  that  eventually  fate  would  intend 
them  for  one  another.  Her  own  happiness 
sometimes  makes  Madeleine  feel  a  bit 
guilty  about  Dr.  Anne  Gentry:  "She's  a 
lonely  figure,  in  a  way.  I  hope  she'll  mar- 
ry again." 


BIG  SGTER 

TEEN  AGE  DOLL 


New!   GImohhk 


The  most  hreathtaking  new  doll  of  the  year!  "Big  Sister"  is  a  gorgeous  young 
lady  wearing  her  first  high  heels  and  first  jewelry.  She'll  steal  the  show  in 
any  dolly  parade  and  dance  right  into  your  heart.  Talented  as  she  is  beautiful, 
she  9its,  stands,  bends  her  elbows  and  knees.  Gorgeous  big  blue  eyes  (with 
thick,  real  lashes)  close  when  she's  sleepy.  Her  permanently  rooted,  glossy 
hair  can  be  washed  and  set  in  all  the  new  styles.  She  bathes  from  head  to 
toe  because  she's  all  satiny,  peaches  'n'  cream  vinyl  plastic.  She  has  mani- 
cured her  hands  and  feet  with  pink  polish.  Her  white  dress  is  heavyweight, 
imported  Swiss  cotton  with  a  lovely  ribbed  texture  and  embossed-embroidered 
circlet  pattern.  Completing  her  costume:  brass-buckled  belt,  ribbon-trimmed 
crinoline  petticoat;  lace-trimmed  panties.  Her  good  looks  and  clothes  are 
made  to  stay  fresh  thru  countless  hours  of  joyous  little-girl  play*  Lustrou6 
pearl  earrings  and  bracelet  included. 

NIRESK  INDUSTRIES,  INC.     DK-1,    CHICAGO  47,  ILL. 


MONEY  BACK  GUARANTEE 


NIRESK  INDUSTRIES,  INC.,  DEPT.  DK-1. 
2331  N.  Washtenaw  Ave.,  Chicago  47,  III. 

Please  rush  at  once   $7.00   value   BIG   SISTER   DOLL   at  $3.95    plus   50c 
postage.  If  I  am  not  100%   delighted  I  can  return  for  a    prompt  refund. 

□      Send  prepaid.  I  enclose                  [      I      Send  C.O.D. 
50c  additional  for  shipping.  I I      I  will  pay  postage. 

NAME 


ADDRESS, 
CITY 


_ZONE_ 


_STATE_ 


(In  Canada  $5.95— Niresk,  214  Main  Street,  Toronto  13,  Ont. 


Taste  is  the  word  that  really 

counts  about  WINSTON 


Whether  they  say  "As  a  cigarette  should !" 
or  "Like  a  cigarette  should !  "—most  every- 
one agrees  that  Winston  does  taste  good ! 
There's  rich,  hearty  flavor  in  this  cigarette ! 
And  Winston's  exclusive,  snow-white  filter 
does  its  job  so  well  that  the  fine,  full  flavor 
comes  through  to  you.  For  thoroughly  en- 
joyable smoking,  get  Winston! 


PURE,  SNOW-WHITE 
FILTER 


SMART. 
CORK-SMOOTH  TIP 


R.  J.  REYNOLDS  TOBACCO  CO.,  WIN  STON-SALEM  .  N.  C. 


Smoke  WINSTON  America's  best-selling,  best-tasting  filter  cigarette! 


RADIO 

MTRttfk 


MIRROR 


DIO  MIRROR    dec.  •  25 


Hal  March  says: 
Fatherhood's  Great 


Tea 


A   GENTLE,   FRAGRANT    SPRAY    THAT    HOLDS    HAT 
SOFTLY,    BEAUTIFULLY    IN    PLACE     FOR    HOURS 


; 


ISO-totl/il/' 


J 


Breck  Hair  Set  Mist,  a  fragrant  spray,  gentle  as  nature's  mist,  holds  your  hair  softly  yet 
firmly  in  place  for  hours.  After  combing,  a  few  brief  sprays  keep  the  hair  beautifully  in  place. 

Fragrant  as  a  bouquet,  Breck  Hair  Set  Mist  contains  liquid  lanolin,  which  leaves  the  hair 
pleasingly  soft  to  the  touch  and  helps  to  bring  out  the  natural  lustre  and  beauty  of  your  hair. 

It  neither  dries  your  hair,  nor  makes  it  stiff  or  sticky.  It  holds  better  even  in  damp  or  humid 
weather.  Breck  Hair  Set  Mist  also  provides  a  quick  and  easy  way  to  make  long  lasting  pin  curls. 


B 


R 


e  auiiful 

E 


air 


C      K 


y  John  H    Breck  Inc 


New  51/2  ounce  size  $1.25;  8  ounce  size  $1.65;  11  ounce  size  $2.00.  Plus  tax.  Available  wherever  cosmetics  are  sold. 


COSTUME  BY  JOHN  DERRO 


I  dreamed /was  lost  in  a  London  Foa  in  m 

Nothing  can  dampen  my  spirits  when  I'm  wearing  new  Maidenform  Concerto*.  This 
talented  bra  brightens  my  every  hour,  heightens  my  every  curve !  The  secret's  in  the 
circular  rows  of  linked  stitches  that  mold  and  hold  me  in  the  prettiest  possible  lines. 
Machine-washable  white  cotton  broadcloth  in  AA,  A,  B  and  C  cups.  2.50 


%rmi?ra 


UDEN  FORM  BRASSIERE  CO.,  INC. 


*REG.  U.S.   PAT.  OFF. 


When  little  "angels" 
get  on  your  nerves  . . 


To  feel  your  best  again  after  a  hectic  day 
when  the  children's  rough-house 
play  has  worn  your  patience  thin,  calm 
down  and  relax  with  the  help  of 
miles  nervine.  The  mild  action  of  miles 
nervine  helps  so  many  modern 
women  to  relax  mentally  and  physically, 
to  feel  composed  and  serene — without 
any  listless,  logy  after- effects 

Taken  at  night,,  miles  nervine  simply 
relaxes  you — lets  you  sleep  naturally. 
Follow  the  label — avoid  excessive  use. 
Miles  nervine  has  a  record  of 
satisfaction  in  years  of  use — sold  in 
effervescent  tablets  and  liquid. 

Soothe  nerves . . . 
feel  calm  and  serene  with 

MILES® 

NERVINE 


At  tiny  drugstore  . . . 

No  Prescription  Needed! 

Miles  Laboratories,  Inc.,  Elkhart,  Ind. 


TV 


RADIO 
MIRROR 


DECEMBER,   1957 


MIDWEST  EDITION 


VOL.  49,  NO.  1 


Ann  Mosher,  Editor 
Teresa  Buxton,  Managing  Editor 
Claire  Safran,  Associate  Editor 
Gay  Miyoshi,  Assistant  Editor 


Jack  Zasorin,  Art  Director 
Frances  Maly,  Associate  Art  Director 
Joan  Clarke,  Assistant  Art  Director 
Bud  Goode,  West  Coast  Editor 


PEOPLE  ON  THE  AIR 

No  Fooling   (Ed  Wynn) 3 

What's  New  on  the  West  Coast by  Bud  Goode  4 

What's  New  on  the  East  Coast by  Peter  Abbott  6 

TV  Radio  Mirror  Awards  for  1957-58  (final  Gold  Medal  ballots) 32 

Goodbye  to  57  Pounds!   (Dorothy  Olsen) by  Harold  Baron  34 

Lady  Luck  Pitched  a  Curve  (Danny  Costello) by  Helen  Bolstad  36 

Perry  Como :  The  Pied  Piper  of  TV by  Martin  Cohen  38 

Why  Do  Women  Hate  to  Be  Called  Housewives? 

(Arlene  Francis) by   Gladys  Hall  42 

Elvis  Presley's  Fight  for  a  Private  Life by  Lilla  Anderson  44 

You  Asked  For  It  (Art  Baker) by  Maurine  Remenih  46 

Hamburgers  Hot !   (Ralph  Camargo's  recipes) 50 

The  Voices  of  Mystery  (True  Detective  Mysteries,  Treasury  Agent, 

Gang  Busters,  Secrets  Of  Scotland  Yard,  Counterspy) 52 

Love  at  Second  Glance  (Mary  Lou  Harrington) by  Dora  Albert  56 

Romance  in  a  Whirlwind  (Patrick  O'Neal) by  Frances  Kish  58 

FEATURES  IN  FULL  COLOR 

The  Greatest  $64,000  Category  of  All  (Hal  March) by  Dianne  Scott  20 

Getting  to  Know  Him  (Patti  Page) by  Betty  Etter  24 

Western  Giant  (James  Garner)    by  Gordon  Budge  26 

That  Sentimental  Softie:  Frank  Sinatra by  Maxine  Arnold  28 

YOUR  LOCAL  STATION 

You  Can't  Keep  a  Good  Man  Down .  ( WGN,  WGN-TV) 8 

The  Record  Players:  There  Oughta  Be  a  Word by  Josh  Brady  10 

Fabulous  Finch  (WJIM,  WJIM-TV) '.  12 

Guy  on  the  Go  (KDAL,  KDAL-TV) 14 

Let's  Dance!    (KTVH) 15 

Life  Begins  at  Midnight  (John  J.  Miller)    18 

YOUR  SPECIAL  SERVICES 

Information    Booth 11 

New  Patterns  for  You   (smart  wardrobe  suggestions) 13 

TV  Radio  Mirror  Goes  to  the  Movies by  Janet  Graves  16 

Movies  on  TV 17 

TV    Tattle-Tale 44B 

Beauty:  Dashing  Lady  (Haila  Stoddard) by  Harriet  Segman  60 

Cover  portrait  of  Perry  Como  by  Art  Selby  of  NBC-TV 


BUY  YOUR  JANUARY  ISSUE  EARLY  •  ON  SALE  DECEMBER  5 


-  fc  PUBLISHED       MONTHLY      by      Macfadden 

.*"D  Publications,     Inc.,    New    York,    N.    Y. 

\*      EXECUTIVE,      ADVERTISING      AND      EDI- 

A  '.TORIAL     OFFICES      at     205      East     42nd 

Street,    New    York,   N.    Y.   Editorial    Branch 

,  Office,    6269    Selma    Ave.,    Hollywood    28. 

■  Calif.     Irving    S.     Manheimer,     President: 

Lee      Andrews,      Vice      President;       Meyer 

*"«/!.***         Dworltin,    Secretary  and  Treasurer.    Adver- 

tising   offices   also    in    Chicago.    221    North 

LaSnlle    Street,    and    San   Francisco.  - 

SUBSCRIPTION     RATES:     $3.00    one    year,    U.     S.    and 

Possessions   and    Canada.    $5.00    per  year  for   all    other 

change"  OF  ADDRESS:  6  weeks'  notice  essential. 
When  possible,  please  furnish  stencil  impression  ad- 
dress from  a  recent  issue.  Address  changes  can  be 
made  oniv  if  vou  send  us  your  old,  as  well  as  your 
new  address.  Write  to  TV  Radio  Mirror.  205  East 
42nd  Street,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 
MANUSCRIPTS:    All   manuscripts  will  be  carefully  con- 


sidered, but  publisher  cannot  be  responsible  for  loss  or 
damage.  It  is  advisable  to  keep  a  duplicate  copy  for 
your  records.  Only  those  manuscripts  accompanied  by 
stamped,  self-addressed  return  envelopes  or  with  suffi- 
cient return  postage  will  be  returned. 

FOREIGN  editions  handled  through  Macfadden  Publi- 
cations International  Corp.,  205  East  42nd  Street,  New 
York  17,  N.  Y.  Irving  S.  Manheimer, -President;  Doug- 
las L-ockhart,    Vice  President. 

RE-ENTERED  as  Second-Class  Matter,  June  28,  1954, 
at  the  PostOffice  at  New  York,  N.  Y.,  under  the  Act  of 
March  3,  1879.  Authorized  as  Second  Class  mail,  P.O. 
Dept.,  Ottawa,  Ont.,  Canada.  Copyright  1957  by  Mac- 
fadden Publications,  Inc.  All  rights  reserved  under  In- 
ternational Convright  Convention.  All  rights  reserved 
under  Pan-American  Copyright  Convention.  Todos  de- 
rechos  reservados  segun  la  Convencion  Pan-Americana 
de  Propiedad  Literaria  y  Artistica.  Title  trademark 
registered  in  U.S.  Patent  Office.  Printed  in  U.  S.  A. 
by  Art  Color  Printing  Company. 

Member  of  the   TRUE    STORY    Women's    Group. 


NO  FOOLING 


Life  begins  at  70  as  Ed  Wynn 
still  makes  'em  laugh — and  cry. 


"W/"hen  Ed  Wynn  decided  to  play  it 
straight,  after  fifty -four  of  the 
funniest  years  in  vaudeville,  theater, 
radio  and  television,  it  was  on  the  ad- 
vice of  his  son  Keenan.  "Even  a  rail- 
road track  doesn't  last  fifty -four 
years,"  said  Keenan,  "and  that's  made 
of  steel."  Keenan  meant  the  comic 
value  of  his  dad's  trick  inventions  and 
funny  clothes.  Today,  comedians  are 
wearing  what  both  Wynns,  father  and 
son,  call  "Oi-vay  League  clothes."  .  .  . 
So,  in  a  bit  of  inspired  casting,  Ed 
appeared  in  the  film,  "The  Great 
Man."  "I  used  to  spend  twenty -four 
hours  a  day  thinking  of  how  to  make 
people  laugh,"  Ed  says.  "Now  I  have 
to  think  of  how  to  make  them  cry." 
Since  then,  Ed  has  appeared  in  a 
number  of  outstanding  roles  on  TV, 
will  soon  be  seen  in  the  Warner  Bros, 
film  of  "Marjorie  Morningstar,"  and 
was  the  first  all-time  great  to  be  hon- 
ored on  Texaco  Command  Appear- 
ance. He  even  does  some  comedy — 
"but  without  the  funny  clothes" — as 
in,  for  example,  his  November  2  guest 
shot  with  Perry  Como.  Only  Broad- 
way isn't  likely  to  see  Ed — not  with 
four  grandchildren  ordering  com- 
mand appearances  in  California.  .  .  . 
At  70,  Ed  hasn't  made  a  comeback. 
He's  launched  a  completely  new  ca- 
reer. The  old  one  started  when  Ed 
sold  ladies'  hats,  his  father's  product, 
and  made  other  salesmen  flip  their  lids 
— by  clowning  in  them.  Soon,  the  boy 
from  Philadelphia  was  on  stage  as 
"The  Boy  With  the  Funny  Hat."  He  went 
on  to  become  the  only  American  on 
the  opening  bill  of  the  Palace  and — 
when  the  newly -installed  lights  that 
announced  the  acts  failed — the  first 
emcee  in  the  United  States.  He  wrote, 
produced  and  starred  in  a  long  series 
of  hit  Broadway  revues  and  comedies. 
At  one  time,  he  spent  $800,000  of  his 
own  money  to  make  himself  known 
as  "The  Perfect  Fool."  "Then  I  went 
on  radio  to  become  Texaco's  'Fire 
Chief,'  "  Ed  laughs,  "and  in  one  week, 
the  original  trade-name  was  forgot- 
ten." Ed  considers  his  talent  as  a  gift. 
"Why,  I  had  a  brother,"  he  grins, 
"who  couldn't  even  whistle." 


•••••••••••••••••••••a 


•••••«•••••••• 


•  •• 


:  CLEARASIL  PERSONALITY  of  the  MONTH  : 

IEANMARIE  LUSSIER,  Graduate  '57,  St.  Mary's  High  School,  Albuquerque,  N.  M.    * 


Meet  popular  Jeanmarie  Lussier  and 
a  group  typical  of  her  lively  teen-age 
friends.  She's  a  budding  artist,  writer 
too,  and  is  going  on  to  drama  school. 
When  you're  as  much  the  center  of 
activity  as  Jeanmarie  don't  face  the 
embarrassment  of  pimples  .  .  . 


Read  what  Jeanmarie  did:  "/  had  frequent  blackheads  and  blemishes.  I 
tried  nearly  everything  and  had  almost  given  up  when  I  heard  about  Clearasil. 
Clearasil  ended  my  problem  and  ^~N  ■— _^ 

now  I've  been  chosen  "Miss  Photo-  ^^MJ^<A¥A^tSS^^MJUliJu 

genie  of  New  Mexico'."  C__^' 

2135  Eton  Avenue,  S.E. .Albuquerque,  N.M. 


Millions  of  young  people  have  proved  .  .  . 

SCIENTIFIC  CLEARASIL  MEDICATION 

'STARVES'  PIMPLES 

Skin-Colored  .  .  .  hides  pimples  while  it  works! 
clearasil  can  help  you,  too,  gain  clear  skin 
and  a  more  appealing  personality.  Now  you 
can  get  clearasil  as  a  smooth  Lotion  in  handy 
squeeze  bottle,  as  well  as  in  the  famous  Tube. 

Why  Clearasil  Works  Fast:  clearasil's  'kera- 
tolytic'  action  penetrates  pimples.  Antiseptic 
action  stops  growth  of  bacteria  that  can  cause 
pimples.  And  clearasil  'starves'  pimples, 
helps  remove  excess  oil  that  'feeds'  pimples. 

Proved  by  Skin  Specialists!  In  tests  on 

over  300  patients,  9  out  of  10  cases 
were  cleared  up  or  definitely  improved 
while  using  clearasil  (Lotion  or  Tube) . 
Long-lasting  Lotion  only  $1.25 
(no  fed.  fax)  or  Tube, 
69<i  and  98^.  Money- 
back  guarantee.  At 
all  drug  counters. 


You,  too,  may  have  had  skin 
problems  and  found  Clearasil 
helped  end  them.  When  you  think  of 
the  wonderful  relief  that  effective 
treatment  can  bring,  you  may  want 
to  help  others.  You  can,  by  writing 
us  a  letter  about  your  experience 
with  Clearasil.  Attach  a  recent 
photograph  of  yourself  (a  good 
close-up  snapshot  will  do).  You  may 
be  the  next  CLEARASIL  PERSONALITY 
of  the  MONTH.  Write:  Clearasil, 
Dept.  A,  180  Mamaroneck  Ave., 
White  Plains,  N.  Y. 

SPECIAL  OFFER:  For  2  weeks'  supply 
of  clearasil  send  name,  address 
and  15*  to  Box  260-D  (for  Tube)  or 
Box  260-E  (for  Lotion),  Eastco,  Inc., 
New  York  46,  N.  Y.  Expires  12/31/57. 

Lorgest-Seffing  Pimple  Medication 
In  America  (Including  Canada) 


WHAT'S  NEW  ON 


Feting  Ed  Sullivan:  Mickey  Hargitay, 
Jayne    Mansfield,    the    Jack    Bennys. 


h 


Baby  Susanna  steals  scenes  from  mom 
Sale  Storm,  ZaSu  Pitts,  Roy  Roberts. 


Par  for  Groucho  Marx  as  he  has  the 
last   laugh   about   Ed    Sullivan's   golf. 


For   What's  New   On 
The  East  Coast,  See  Page  6 


By  BUD   GO ODE 


Walt  Disney,  after  filming  the  in- 
troductions for  the  season's  Disneyland 
shows,  got  himself  a  butch  haircut. 
Now  it's  hard  to  tell  him  apart  from 
one  of  his  youthful  Mouseketeers. 

Frank  Sinatra's  17-year-old  daugh- 
ter Nancy  drives  a  pink  Thunderbird. 
Both  her  mother  and  Frank  took  re- 
cent trips  to  Europe.  Nancy  had  a 
chance  to  go,  but  refused  both  offers, 
saying,  "Nope,  I  want  to  wait  until  I'm 
older — then     I     can     appreciate     it." 

James  Garner,  on  the  Maverick  set, 
had  a  hard  time  keeping  from  being 
embarrassed  kissing  actress  Karen 
Steele,  right  in  front  of  director  Budd 
Boetticher  and  crew — Karen's  direc- 
tor Boetticher's  gal!  .  .  .  Garner  was 
surprised  at  his  popularity  in  the  War- 
ner's commissary — all  the  stars  have 
been  coming  over  to  his  luncheon  table 
telling  him  how  much  they  liked  Mav- 
erick. "And  a  year  ago,"  he  said,  sur- 
prised, "I  couldn't  get  anyone  to  talk 
to  me." 

Guy  Mitchell  and  his  Danish  bride 
Else  moved  in  with  Guy's  family  on 
their  San  Fernando  ranch  while  wait- 
ing for  their  own  home.  Guy  loves  to 
cowboy  it  and  is  teaching  Else  to 
throw  a  rope  around  one  of  his  Dad's 
fat  steers.  He's  also  hoping  to  hang  a 
lariat  on  a  fat  rating. 

Alice  Backes,  who  plays  John  For- 
sythe's  secretary  in  Bachelor  Father, 
learned  shorthand  in  high  school  and 
hasn't  forgotten  it.  In  fact,  when  John 
dictates  to  her  on  the  show,  she  actu- 
ally takes  it  down.  "Never  know  when 
it  might  come  in  handy  again,"  she 
says. 

The  mother  of  Tony  Dow  (he'sWal- 
ly  on  Leave  It  To  Beaver)  was  once  a 
Mack  Sennett  bathing  beauty.  .  ,  . 
Eight-year-old  Jerry  Mathers,  Beav- 
er on  Leave  It  To  Beaver,  loved  his 
recent  summer  vacation.  "We  went 
swimming  nearly  every  day,"  he  en- 
thuses, "and  I  got  a  new  bike,  it's 
black  and  white.  And  I  caught  a  toad!" 
.  .  .  Jerry  has  a  sister,  name  of  Mari- 
lyn, whom  everybody  calls  Susie;  and 
a  brother  named  Mark,  whom  all  call 
Jimmy.  Nobody  knows  why  Mark  is 
called  Jimmy — but  Marilyn  nick- 
named herself.  When  she  was  two 
years  old,  she  liked  the  neighbors' 
mongrel  dog,  Susie.  So  there  you  are. 

At  a  recent  Hollywood  party  for  Ed 
Sullivan,  Ernie  Kovacs  arrived  a  lit- 
tle late,  wearing  a  sport  shirt  in  two 
shades  of  yellow.  Said  John  Forsythe, 
"Ernie,  I  love  your  new  pajama  top." 
-  George  Burns  proudly  recounts  the 
behavior  of  his  two  granddaughters, 
Liza,  1,  and  Laurie,  3.  He  beams  as  he 
describes  Liza  madly  pushing  Laurie 
around   in   the   baby   carriage.   That's 


what  the  man  said — George,  we  mean. 

Gale  Storm  says  her  one-year-old 
baby,  Susanna,  had  been  lying  around 
the  house  long  enough  and  they  de- 
cided to  put  her  to  work.  Susanna  will 
be  seen  in  one  of  Gale's  Oh!  Susanna 
series.  Says  Gale,  "Susanna's  mad  be- 
cause I  have  to  get  her  a  social  se- 
curity number  before  I  can  deposit 
money  in  her  account."  The  day  the 
baby  finished  filming,  Gale's  two 
youngest  sons,  Peter  and  Paul,  started 
on  the  next  show.  "I  was  lonesome  for 
the  children,"  says  Gale,  "and  the  pro- 
ducer is  trying  to  keep  me  happy  by 
bringing  the  kids  to  the  set.  I  know 
the  boys  are  happy  with  the  money 
they're  making,  because  now  we  can 
afford  to  double  their  allowances." 

Art  Linkletter  of  CBS-TV's  House 
Party  reports  that  when  one  of  the 
children  on  the  show  was  asked  whom 
he'd  like  for  a  mother  or  father  he  re- 
plied, "I'd  like  to  have  you  for  a  daddy 
and  Jayne  Mansfield  for  a  mother." 
When  Art  asked  why  he'd  made  such 
a  choice,  the  youngster  said,  "Because 
Jayne  Mansfield  is  so  beautiful  all 
over.  I  thought  you'd  appreciate  that." 

At  a  dinner  party  which  CBS-TV 
gave  for  Ed  Sullivan,  Groucho  Marx 
arrived  wearing  light-blue  coat  and 
pants,  black  vest,  blue-black  loafers 
and  his  lovely  wife,  Eden,  on  his  arm. 
He  ran  straight  up  to  Ed  and  started 
handwrestling.  When  Jayne  Mansfield 
arrived,  she  kissed  Groucho.  He 
blushed.  Groucho???  When  he  re- 
covered, Groucho  asked  Ed  how  his 
golf  game  was.  "In  the  80' s,"  said  the 
solemn  one.  Quipped  the  Grouch,  "Not 
bad  for  nine  holes." 

Lois  Linkletter  says  that,  every 
time  she  and  Art  take  a  vacation  trip 
with  Bob  Cummings  and  his  wife 
Mary,  the  Cummings'  have  a  new 
baby.  They  are  all  scheduled  for  a 
mid-winter  Acapulco  vacation,  says 
Lois.  She  wouldn't  be  surprised  if  the 
Cummings  children  number  six  by 
the  end  of  1958,  which  will  surpass  the 
Linkletters'  total  of  five.  Mary  Cum- 
mings says  she'd  like  a  sixth,  too. 

When  Jack  Benny  arrives  at  a 
party,  the  orchestra  frequently  breaks 
into  "Love  in  Bloom."  Benny  says,  "It 
embarrasses  me.  I  don't  know  whether 
to  smile  and  bow,  because  they  really 
might  not  have  seen  me  and  just 
played  the  tune  accidentally." 

Tommy  Sands  will  take  his  own 
show  on  the  road  between  January  15 
and  20.  Tommy  insisted  prices  be 
scaled  from  $1.50  top  for  the  first  few 
rows  to  75^  in  the  back  to  keep  within 
reach  of  all  teenagers.  They're  the 
ones  he'll  be  playing  for  and  Tommy's 
not  trying  to  pull  an  Elvis  Presley  and 


THE  WEST  COAST 


Jew  talent?    Senior  squeezes  the  accordion,  but  Lawrence  Welk,  Jr.,  strums  a 
guitar  as  he  rehearses  "Farewell  My  Coney  Island  Baby"  with  the  Lennon  Sisters. 


make  a  million  overnight.  .  .  .  Tommy 
has  already  spent  some  of  the  profits 
by  sending  two  dozen  American 
Beauty  roses  to  Molly  Bee  every  day 
she  was  in  bed  with  pneumonia. 

Larry  Welk,  Jr.  and  his  four  pals, 
the  Lennon  Sisters,  spend  every  free 
moment  on  the  nearby  Venice  Beach 
— rain  or  shine.  As  a  result  of  wiling 
away  the  hours  during  their  beach 
picnics,  Larry  and  two  of  the  Lennons, 
Kathy  and  Peggy,  have  worked  up  a 
fine  trio.  Their  specialty  is  "Farewell 
My  Coney  Island  Baby"  and  it  won't 
be  long  before  they'll  debut  it  on  Papa 
Welk's    Saturday-night    show. 

The  stars  have  favorite  shows.  Clau- 
dette  Colbert's  is  Telephone  Time  on 
ABC-TV.  She  thinks  host  Dr.  Frank 
Baxter  is  a  dear.  She  likes  the  show  so 
well  she  called  to  ask  producer  Jerry 
Stagg  if  he  could  find  a  property  for 
her.  Stagg,  so  happy  to  get  Claudette 
in  one  of  her  infrequent  television  ap- 
pearances, said  to  take  her  pick.  You 
;can  see  Claudette  playing  Mary  Rob- 
jerts  Rinehart  in  "Novel  Appeal"  on 
I  December  3. 

Lyle  Bettger,  who  stars  in  the 
Court  Of  Last  Resort,  recalls  the  ten- 
year  period  when  he  first  started  act- 
ing and  appeared  on  the  Broadway 
stage  in  nothing  but  flops.  In  1937, 
Lyle  remembers,  he  earned  only  $320. 


Twenty  years  later,  he  earned  that 
much  in  one  morning. 

Walter  Winchell,  filming  on  the 
old  Paramount-Sunset  lot,  complains 
that,  though  he's  on  a  diet,  the  bulk 
of  his  Walter  Winchell  File  shows 
have  him  seated  in  the  Stork  Club. 
"I've  had  two  breakfasts,  and  half  a 
dinner  already,"  he  complains,  "and 
the  day  is  only  half  over.  At  this  rate, 
I'll  never  lose  any  weight."  .  .  .  Win- 
chell's  granddaughter,  by  the  way,  is 
due  in  December. 

John  Conte  borrowed  a  Brownie 
camera  to  shoot  some  pix  of  wife, 
Ruth,  and  she,  in  turn,  shot  some  of 
John.  They  didn't  expect  much  of 
their  first  amateur  efforts,  but  the  pix 
turned  out  so  well  that  they  went 
down  to  a  camera  shop  the  next  day 
and  each  got  a  new  $289  Rolleiflex. 

Alfred  Hitchcock's  CBS  video 
show  will  be  seen  in  France  and  Ger- 
many before  the  year  is  out,  with  a 
Japanese  outlet  also  being  planned. 
Hitch,  an  accomplished  linguist,  will 
do  his  own  lead-ins  in  the  French 
and  German  shows  .  .  .  but  Japanese! 

John  Scott  Trotter  continues  to 
lose  weight.  This  summer  he  went 
from  285  lbs  to  198 — buying  a  new 
wardrobe  in  the  process.  As  John 
Scott  gets  thinner,  his  tailor  gets  fatter 
— around  the  wallet. 


EVERY  SINGLE  DAY 
WILL  BE 


WONDERFUL  because  I  made  some  big 
changes — in  dress,  make-up,  job!  I  even 
changed  my  sanitary  protection  — 
changed  to  Tampax — and  now,  even 
"problem  days"  can  be  wonderful,  too! 


AT  WORK  ...  I  can  go  about  my  duties 
without  a  care  about  chafing,  binding 
pads,  or  embarrassing  odor.  Tampax® 
internal  sanitary  protection  is  completely 

comfortable,  dainty. 


AT  PARTIES  ...  I  can  wear  the  sleekest 
dress — feel  poised,  sure.  For  Tampax  is 
invisible,  unfelt  when  in  place.  Lets  me 
move  about  in  perfect  freedom — as  on 
any  day  of  the  month. 


ANYWHERE  .  .  .  Tampax  is  easy  to  use, 
change  and  dispose  of.  Convenient  to 
carry  extras.  Regular,  Super,  Junior  ab- 
sorbencies,  wherever  drug  products  are 
sold.  Tampax  Incorporated,  Palmer, 
Massachusetts. 


Invented  by  a  doctor — 
now  used  by  millions  of  women 


WHAT'S  NEW  ON  THE  EAST  COAST 


By  PETER  ABBOTT 


Million-dollar  deal  would   have  left  Sid  Caesar  with  time  on   his   hands. 
He  preferred  to  make  up  for  lost  laughs  in  a  new  show  with  Imogene  Coca. 


Lost  song  will  be  the  theme  on  Telephone  Time  as  Hoagy  Carmichael  and 
Walter  Winchell  re-tell  the  tale  of  "I  Get  Along  Without  You  Very  Well." 


For  What's  New  On  The  "West  Coast,  See  Page  4 


Cool  &  Far  Out:  Hugh  O'Brian  will 
be  in  N.Y.C.  this  month.  Will  he  re- 
create his  romance  with  that  June 
Taylor  dancer?  .  .  .  The  gal  listed  in 
TV  credits  as  Judy  Lewis  is  Loretta 
Young's  daughter.  Note  the  physical 
resemblance.  .  .  .  Strong  bidding  for 
glamorous  Jane  Russell  as  guest  sing- 
er. ..  .  Dilemma  this  season:  So  many 
musicals  that  singing  stars  will  be 
playing  what  amounts  to  a  "TV 
vaudeville  circuit."  Dean  Martin  ex- 
plained why  he  turned  down  thirteen 
TV  shows  at  NBC.  For  every  guest 
star  who  sang  on  his  show  he'd  have 
to  return  the  favor,  which  would 
mean  doing  twenty-six  shows.  .  .  . 
Sylvania  Electric,  which  pioneered 
in  shortening  the  picture  tube,  has, 
as  an  ultimate  target,  a  TV  receiver 
that  will  be  no  more  than  four  inches 
deep.  You'll  be  able  to  hang  it  on  the 
wall  next  to  your  Picasso.  ...  To 
collect  almost  a  million  dollars  for  the 
next  seven  years,  all  Sid  Caesar  had 
to  do  was  sit  tight  and,  at  the  very 
most,  do  two  or  three  "specials"  a 
year  for  NBC.  But  Sid  wanted  to  do 
a  regular  weekly  show.  When  NBC 
couldn't  find  a  bankroller,  Sid  ter- 
minated the  contract.  ABC -TV  had 
better  luck  in  the  sponsor  hunt.  Mad- 
ame Helena  Rubinstein  enters  the  TV 
arena  for  the  first  time,  as  sponsor  of 
the  reunion  of  Caesar  and  his  original 
video  foil,  Imogene  Coca.  Starting 
January  26,  they'll  be  seen  Sundays  at 
9  P.M.  over  ABC-TV.  .  .  .  Julie  La 
Rosa,  so  depressed  when  wife  Rory 
lost  her  first  baby  early  in  pregnancy, 
is  chipper  again.  Target  date  for  the 
stork  this  time  is  April. 

Short  &  Sassy:  Confidential  to  Ed 
Sullivan:  Steve  Allen  showing  signs 
of  confidence  and  planning  six  weeks 
off  next  summer  for  a  European  vaca- 
tion. This  is  unusual:  Steve  has  never 
been  out  of  the  U.S.A.  .  .  .  You  can't 
say  that  Godfrey  holds  grudges.  Nell 
Van  Ells,  who  has  subbed  for  Tony 
Marvin,  is  Phyl  McGuire's  former 
husband  and  figured  in  some  of  those 
front-page  stories  a  couple  years 
back.  Phyl  was  pleased  that  her  ex 
got  a  break.  By  the  by,  Arthur  will 
be  in  Chicago  this  month.  .  .  .  Jerry 
Lewis  explodes  on  TV  on  Election 
Day,  November  5.  Jerry's  final  TV 
show  last  season  got  lousy  reviews, 
but  he  points  with  pride  at  200,000 
letters  of  praise  he  got  from  the  pub- 
lic. .  .  .  Everyone  on  the  Phil  Silvers 
show  is  overweight.  Reason  is  that 
feeling  so  rare  in  an  actor's  life:  Se- 
curity. .  .  .  And  yardbird  Doberman 
(Maury  Gosfield)  will  have  a  net- 
work kiddie  show,  in  addition  to  other 
duties.  .  .  .  Jack  Barry's  separation 
continues,  but  no  move  has  been  made 
to  make  it  legal  and  there's  still  hope 
of  reconciliation.  It  can  happen. 
Lovely  Bess  Myerson,  in  the  same 
miserable  mess  last  year,  is  now  hap- 


Sugarfoot  Will  Hutchins  doesn't  like  people  who 
get  lost  in  the  crowd.   He  himself  isn't  likely  to. 


Here's   Frank   Blair's   family-size   family!    Front:    Bill,    Frank,   wife 
Lil,   Patricia,  Theresa,   Paul.  Rear:  Mary,  Tom,  John,   and   Mike. 


pily  reconciled.  .  .  .  Mel  Allen  cele- 
brates his  twentieth  anniversary  as  a 
sportscaster  and  his  forty-fourth  an- 
niversary as  a  bachelor.  .  .  .  Jean  Gil- 
lespie, who  plays  a  teenager,  Marge 
Davis,  in  Young  Doctor  Malone,  is  also 
playing  Esther  Hunter,  the  mother  of 
six,  on  Ma  Perkins.  .  .  .  We  didn't  hear 
it,  but  they  report  that  when  Randy 
Merriman  asked  a  contestant,  "Do 
you  take  your  wife  out  often?"  the 
man  answered,  "I  take  her  every- 
where but  it's  no  use.  She  always 
finds  her  way  back." 

Big,  Big,  Big  Family:  No  one  ceases 
to  wonder  at  the  size  of  Frank  Blair's 
family.  His  oldest  boy  is  21;  his 
youngest  a  baby  of  six  months.  In 
between,  there  are  six  others.  "We 
have  two  platoons,"  Frank  says,  "the 
growing  and  the  grown."  Wife  Lil  has 
only  one  maid  helping  her  with  13 
rooms  and  eight  kids,  but  says  she 
has  plenty  of  spare  time  even  though 
the  family  is  seldom  split  up.  The 
kids  prefer  the  home  fires.  "Once  we 
sent  the  older  boys  to  Scout  camp  for 
three  weeks,"  she  recalls.  "After  a 
few  days  they  wrote  that  if  we  didn't 
come  for  them,  they'd  hitchhike  home. 
And  when  the  eldest  went  off  to  a 
National  Guard  camp  for  a  month,  we 
figured  we  wouldn't  be  seeing  much  of 
him.  He  was  forty  miles  away,  but 
somehow  he  got  home  for  dinner  al- 
most every  night."  Lil  notes  that  she 
felt  a  little  self-conscious  last  time  she 
reported  to  the  obstetrician.  "I'm  forty 
and  that  seemed  old  for  pregnancy, 
but  the  new  baby  has  made  me  feei 


younger,  happier  and  look  better." 
Frank  Blair,  around  the  home,  is  just 
as  soft-spoken  and  intellectual  as  he 
is  on  the  Garroway  show.  "Instead  of 
speaking  sharply  to  the  kids  when 
they're  in  the  wrong,"  Lil  says,  "he 
sits  down  and  talks  to  them  for  up  to 
two  hours."  The  family  shares  an  en- 
thusiasm for  boating.  Frank,  who  has 
5,000  flying  hours,  is  helping  his  older 
boys  get  their  wings.  He  is  also  en- 
thusiastic about  rock  'n'  roll.  "Lil  and 
I  took  dancing  lessons  three  years 
ago  and  now  enjoy  dancing  to  the  beat 
as  much  as  the  kids."  Amazingly, 
neither  Frank  nor  Lil  grew  up  in  large 
families.  He  was  an  only  child.  She 
had  a  sister.  About  plans  for  further 
expansion,  Lil  said,  "I  don't  know.  If 
I  had  been  told  22  years  ago,  when  we 
married,  that  I  would  have  an  eighth 
child  at  forty,  I  wouldn't  have  believed 
it.  We  planned  on  only  five." 

Ready,  Aim,  Plop:  Lee  Vines,  Robert 
Q's  announcer,  now  turning  up  in 
dramatic  roles.  Had  lead  in  CBS 
Workshop  and  role  in  Second  Mrs. 
Burton.  .  .  .  This  season  Garry  Moore 
plans  the  all-time  giveaway.  For  a 
weekend,  he  will  give  away  the  entire 
cast,  including  himself,  Ken,  Durward, 
Denise,  et  al.  .  .  .  Garry  very  proud 
of  older  son,  Mason.  Lad  put  off  entry 
into  Harvard  to  accept  a  scholarship 
in  England.  One  of  three  boys  chosen. 
.  .  .  Singers  on  Hit  Parade  get  $750 
weekly,  not  high  pay  so  far  as  TV 
goes,  but  it  means  lots  of  exposure  to 
the  public.  .  .  .  Little  Lu  Ann  Simms, 
ex-Godfreyite,  making  TV  comeback 


via  kiddie  circuits.  Will  be  a  regular 
with  Captain  Kangaroo.  Lu's  baby, 
Cindy,  is  now  two  and  Lu  reports, 
"She's  enthralled  when  she  sees  me  on 
TV,  but  howls  the  twenty-five  min- 
utes it  takes  for  me  to  get  back  to  the 
apartment.  I  wonder  what  she  thinks 
happened  to  me."  .  .  .  Now  that  Jaye 
P.  Morgan's  divorce  from  actor  Mike 
Biano  is  final,  New  York  columnists 
keep  marrying  her  off  to  everyone  she 
dates. 

Sweet  Sugarfoot:  Kind  of  a  Tab 
Hunter  type  is  Will  Hutchins,  tall, 
slender  dirty -blond  who  stars  in  title 
role  of  Sugarfoot,  new  ABC-TV  West- 
ern. Says  Hutch,  "I'd  never  been  on  a 
horse  or  held  a  gun  before,  but  I've 
always  wanted  to  be  an  actor."  Hutch, 
25  and  six-one,  was  born  and  raised 
in  L.A.,  studied  at  Pomona  and 
U.C.L.A.  First  time  in  Manhattan  and 
excited.  "I'd  like  to  live  here.  I  was 
in  a  restaurant  (Lucky  Pierre's)  last 
night  where  they  broiled  meat  with  a 
blow-torch.  How  about  that?  And  the 
jazz  here  is  just  great."  Besides  Louis 
Armstrong  and  Billie  Holliday,  Hutch 
has  a  taste  for  eccentric  foods.  Like 
bean  soup  with  a  splash  of  cottage 
cheese  or  a  health  cocktail  called  "Live 
Longer"  that  includes  fruit  juices, 
wheat  germ,  soy  beans,  blackstrap 
molasses,  sunflower  seeds,  etc.  "It 
keeps  up  my  energy,"  he  explained, 
then  complained,  "Everyone  asks  me 
about  girls.  I  guess  I'll  have  to  date 
more.  Tell,  you  my  type.  I  flipped  for 
Audrey  Hepburn.  I  guess  I  like  the 
type  of  girl   (Continued  on  page  13) 


Ted  Thome's  own  story  has 

as  much  human  interest  as  any  he  has 

ever  reported  for  WGN  and  WGN-TV 


A  bout  with  polio  changed  the  course  of  Ted  Thome's  life.   It  meant 
a  new  career  and  an  early  start  for  Chicago's  popular  Late  News  man. 


You  Can't 


When  the  royal  romance  of  Grace  Kelly    . 
was  taking  first  place  in  space  among  wire 
services,  newspapers  and  magazines,  it 
received    a    curt    wrap-up    from    Ted    Thorne, 
who  reports  the  6  o'clock  news  on  WGN 
Radio  and  the  Late  News  on  WGN-TV.  "I'm 
sure  everyone  has  heard  enough  of  the 
Grace  Kelly  story,"  said  the  Chicago  newsman, 
"so  we'll  just  drop  it  for  now  .  .  ."  By  the 
time  Ted  had  signed  off,  every  light  on  the 
switchboard  was  lit  by  calls  from  irate  women 
accusing  Ted  of  being  heartless  and  inhuman. 
The  next  night,  Ted  went  on  the  air  and 
explained  that  he  himself  was  the  father  of 
two  children  and  had  nothing  against  romance. 
The  switchboard  lit  up  again,  this  time 
with  masculine  voices  objecting  to  this  stand 
and  praising  his  first  one.     "Well,"  said 
Ted,   "there's  nothing  like   experience  in 
this  business."   ...   Of  experience,   Ted  has 
plenty.    One  of  the  youngest  of  the  country's 
major  newscasters,  he  had  an  early  start. 
John  T.   (Ted)  Thorne  was  an  active  youth 
aiming  at  a  career  in  professional  athletics 
when  he  suddenly  found  himself  crippled  by 
an  attack  of  polio  during  the  summer  of  1942. 
If  Ted  couldn't  participate,  he  decided  he'd 
write  about  sports.    He  began  with  his  school 
paper.  Then  the  Michigan  City,  Indiana 
News  Dispatch  invited  the  seventeen-year-old 
boy   to   become   their   sports   editor. 
So  the  crippling  disease  that  had  struck  Ted 
turned  him  into  the  youngest  sports  editor  of 
any  daily  newspaper  in  the  country.  .  .  .  Ted 
took  time  out  for  Indiana  University,  then 
became  a  news  writer  for  radio  stations  and, 
after    a    while,    an    on-the-air    newscaster   and 
also  deejay.  Among  the  highlights  of  his  news 
career  are  included  interviews  with  candidates 
in  the  last  presidential  race,  the  Whiting, 
Indiana  oil  refineries  fire,  and  the  taping  of  a 
murderer's  confession  at  the  scene  of  the 
crime.  This  last  interview  took  place  even 
before  police  had  had  the  opportunity 
of  questioning  the  suspect.    In  the  excitement 
of  this  scoop,  Ted,  with  the  corpse  lying 
right  there  in  the  street,  kept  referring 
breathlessly  to  the  "alleged  dead  man." 
.  .  .  Ted  and  his  wife  Nancy  live  in  New 
Buffalo,    Michigan,    in    a    five-room    bungalow 
set  on  a  half-acre  of  trees  and  shrubs. 
During  the  summer,  Ted  often  takes  Jeffery 
Lee,  5,  and  Deborah  Jo,  2,  to  the  beach 
before  he  leaves  for  work.    In  cooler  weather, 
there's  an  indoors  romp.  .  .  .  Ted's  manner  is 
friendly  and  he  has  developed  the  pattern 
of  winding  up  each  broadcast  with  a  humorous 
or  human-interest   story.    His  favorite 
Christmas  story  is  of  a  fourteen-year-old 
girl  from  an  orphanage  who  had  saved  her 
money  all  year  and  finally  accumulated  $35  to 
buy  presents  for  all  the  other  children  at 
the   orphanage.    But,   while   she   was   shopping 
downtown,  her  purse  was  snatched.    She 
called  WGN  for  help,  and  Ted  broadcast  the 
story.    Listeners  sent  in  more  than   $200 
— and  all  in  good  time  for  the  presents  to  -arrive 
at  the  orphanage  on  Christmas  Day.  "These," 
says  Ted,  "are  the  rewards  of  being 
a  newsman."  For  Ted  Thorne,  a  good  man 
whom  even  polio  couldn't  keep  down,  the 
rewards  will  continue  to  be  many. 


■ 


Keep  A  Good  Man  Down 


Story  time  comes  early  in  the  day  for  Nancy,  young  Jeffery  Lee  and  Deborah 
Jo,  and  Ted.  The  man  of  the  house  leaves  for  work  after  lunch  and  comes  home 
after  midnight.  Below,  the  four  Thornes  get  a  headstart  on  Christmas,  as  well. 


'; 

|W 

C': 

'U    TI^f     ^ 

f 

.    J^n  *£t  /"WJa     ' 

■   '  ■■:';'  ■  ■    ■'  .    .■::    ":  ■'"■"   :'"'     ";?      ■'           ■  .  : 

91            ~wjt 

1 

1 

1    jll 

Kill 

"' '■'■  .V;':.         :  ■ 

m\ 

L 

4 

,  jBiK§i« 

11 

■ 

1 

THE  RECORD  PLAYERS 


Four  of  your  favorite  deejays 
alternate  in  this  space.  This  month,  it's 
Josh  Brady  of  WBBM  in  Chicago 


Nowadays,    singer    Bill     Lawrence 
left)   has  Breakfast  With  Brady. 


oughta  t> 


Word 


By  JOSH   BRADY 


The  psychiatrists  must  have  a  word 
for  it.  This  business  of  giving  a 
thought  to  someone  you  haven't  seen 
or  heard  from  in  a  long  time — and 
then  having  this  person  pop  up  shortly 
thereafter — well,  it  happens  so  often 
that,  if  they  don't  have  a  name  for  it, 
they  should  .  .  .  It's  not  exactly 
telepathy.  It  happened  to  me  again 
recently. 

I  was  perusing  the  new  record  LPs 
that  had  arrived  in  the  music  library 
here  at  CBS  in  Chicago  and  came 
across  a  new  one  called  "In  the  Mood 
for  Love,"  with  a  picture  of  Bill 
Lawrence  on  the  cover.  And  it  oc- 
curred to  me  that  I  hadn't  seen  or 
heard  much  of  this  lad  since  he  was 
the  hit  of  the  Godfrey  show  back 
around  1949.  I  knew  he  had  gone 
into  service,  but  I  wasn't  convinced 
he'd  become  a  career  man  in  the 
service.  What  the  heck  had  happened 
to  Bill  Lawrence?  Well,  it  was  only 
a  matter  of  hours,  later  the  same  day, 
when  this  thing  the  psychiatrists 
should  have  a  name  for  actually  hap- 
pened to  me.  I  was  informed  that  I 
had  a  new  singer  on  my  Breakfast 
With  Brady  show  starting  next  Mon- 
day. And  when  I  was  told  it  would 
be  Bill  Lawrence,  I  got  that  old  feel- 
ing .  .  .  The  psychiatrists  should  have 
a  name  for  it. 

I  met  Bill  the  next  day  and  began 

to   inquire   about  the   Bill   Lawrence 

story.   Bill  is  about  twenty -nine  years 

of  age.   People  think  he  is  a  lot  older 

T    because  it  seems  so  long  ago  that  he 

v    was  with  Godfrey.    Actually  that  was 

R      


from  about  1948  to  '50  .  .  .  but  he  was 
very  young  then.  Bill  began  singing 
when  he  was  about  five  years  of  age 
and  he  still  recalls  singing  "My 
Reverie"  at  the  walkathons  in  his 
home  town  of  East  St.  Louis.  He 
studied  voice  at  the  age  of  fourteen 
and  attended  East  Side  High  in  St. 
Louis.  He  numbers  among  the  three 
mistakes  of  his  career  the  fact  that  he 
passed  up  two  scholarships  to  get 
into  the  singing  business  quickly — he 
earned  a  dramatic  scholarship  plus  a 
music  scholarship  at  the  University 
of  Illinois.  His  first  big  break  was  the 
local  talent  contest  he  won  while 
visiting  a  brother  out  in  California. 
As  a  result  of  this  contest,  he  was 
hired  by  the  late  Jimmy  Dorsey. 

Any  embarrassing  moments  in  your 
career,  Bill?  "Well,  yes,  the  time  I  for- 
got the  words  to  'Ballerina'  while 
singing  with  Dorsey  at  the  Palladium 
in  Los  Angeles.  I  got  panicky  and 
blurted  right  out,  'I've  forgotten  the 
words!'  "  I'm  sure  that,  at  this  stage 
of  the  game,  Bill  still  forgets  words, 
but  he'll  hum  or  make  up  new  lyrics 
and  most  listeners  won't  even  notice. 

After  the  Jimmy  Dorsey  stint,  Bill 
Lawrence  won  the  Godfrey  Talent 
Scouts  show  and,  as  a  result,  Godfrey 
gave  him  a  spot  on  his  regular  show. 
This  was  back  in  1948  and  lasted  until 
Bill  went  in  the  service  in  1950. 

Bill  enjoyed  the  Godfrey  show 
very  much  and  thinks  very  highly  of 
Mr.  Godfrey.  Bill  says  he  was  never 
fired  from  the  Godfrey  shows — he  left 
to    enter    the    service.     Furthermore, 


according  to  Bill,  it  was  of  his  own 
volition  that  he  did  not  return  to  the 
Godfrey  shows  after  service,  because 
he  says  he  did  have  the  invitation. 
And,  by  the  way,  Bill  calls  this  that 
third  mistake  he  has  made  in  his 
career — the  fact  that  he  didn't  go 
back  with  Godfrey.  He  claims  he  got 
a  little  bad  management  advice. 

Bill  Lawrence  was  the  victim  of  the 
oblivion  that  befalls  so  many  who  go 
into  the  personal-appearance  field. 
That's  where  he  has  been  up  until 
now.  And  somehow,  when  a  once- 
prominent  artist,  gets  lost  for  a  while, 
a  lot  of  unfair  stories  sometimes  crop 
up.  Like  the  one  about  the  radio 
announcer  who  thought  the  mike  was 
off.  (They're  even  telling  that  one 
about  me  back  in  my  home  town  of 
Duluth. )  Bill  is  as  fine  a  chap  as  you'll 
run  into.  He's  a  few  years  older  and 
a  few  pounds — not  too  many — heavier, 
just  as  handsome  and  as  cooperative 
as  you'll  find  them.  He's  been  en- 
gaged a  couple  times,  but  is  still 
single. 

And  now  that  he's  back  on  radio  as 
a  part  of  the  all-live  morning  spec- 
tacular, from  6  to  9  every  morning  on 
WBBM,  he's  coming  back  real  strong. 
He's  on  the  station  that  gave  this 
country  such  stars  as  Patti  Page,  the 
Andrews  Sisters,  Dale  Evans,  Janette 
Davis,  Les  Paul,  Buddy  Clark  .  .  . 
And,  oddly  enough,  ten  years  after 
his  stint  with  Godfrey,  he's  on  the 
Breakfast  With  Brady  show  in  Chi- 
cago at  8:45  A.M.  .  .  .  right  before 
Godfrey. 


10 


Josh  Brady  is  heard  over  WBBM  in  Chicago,  each  Monday  through  Friday,  on  Breakfast  With  Brady,  8:45  A.M.;  Eloise  And  Josh.  10:30  A.M.: 
Josh  And  Eloise,  3:15  P.M.;  and  Take  A  Break,  3:45  P.M.  He's  heard  Saturday,  from  10:30  to  11:30  A.M.,  and  Sunday,  from  9:05  to  noon. 


INFORMATION    BOOTH 


Confidentially — a   Dick 

Please  give  me  some  information  about 

the  TV  Richard  Diamond,  David  Janssen. 

T.  C,  Somerville,  Mass. 

Talent  will  out!  In  the  case  of  David 
Janssen,  star  of  CBS-TV's  Richard  Dia- 
mond, Private  Detective,  talent  "outed" 
very  early.  At  six  months,  he  was  "prettiest 
baby"  in  his  home  town  of  Naponee,  Ne- 
braska, and  not  long  after  that  he  went  "on 
tour" — a  stage  baby  accompanying  his 
mother,  who  was  in  the  cast  of  "Rio  Rita" 
and  other  shows.  .  .  .  David  grew  up  back- 
stage and  loved  it.  He  learned  to  play 
piano  and  accordion  and,  altogether,  ac- 
quired as  much  theatrical  know-how  during 
those  childhood  years  as  many  stage  vet- 
erans pile  up  in  decades  of  trouping.  .  .  . 
In  Hollywood,  after  his  mother  remarried, 
David  studied  the  three  R's  and  made 
twice  as  many  movies.  The  day  he  grad- 
uated from  Fairfax  High,  he  put  on  his 
first  "straw  hat" — or  was  it  a  sou'wester? — 
and  took  off  East  for  a  season  of  summer 
stock  in  Maine.  Two  Broadway  plays  he 
was  cast  for  never  opened,  so  back  West, 
some  more  movie  work  and  then  the  Army's 
Special  Services  division  for  two  years. 
After  discharge,  he  was  cast  as  an  Army 
captain  in  a  Warner's  film  being  shot  at 
Fort  Ord — his  old  camp.  The  newly  ac- 
quired bars  at  the  shoulder  brought  him 
all  kinds  of  good-natured  hazing  from  his 
old  buddies — all  enlisted  men,  naturally. 
.  .  .  Television  was  beginning  to  pick  up 
the  drift  of  Janssen's  talent  when  Dick 
Powell,  who  played  Richard  Diamond  on 
radio,  happened  to  notice  his  work  in 
the  movie,  "Lafayette  Escadrille."  Powell 
tested  50  actors  for  the  part  of  Diamond 
on  TV,  but  Janssen  won  out  easily.  ...  A 
bachelor,  David  lives  at  home  with  his 
parents.  He's  looking  for  a  girl  with  "good 
common  sense"  who  will  love  him  for  him- 
self alone — not  his  publicity  value.  David 
is  six  feet  tall,   175   pounds,  with  brown 


Perry  Mason's  legman  (William  Hopper,  right)  readies  for  action  in  tense  conver- 
sation with  Perry  (Raymond  Burr).  Hopper's  own  life  reads  like  top  adventure  fiction. 


Dick  Powell,  David  (Dick)  Janssen  are 
radio  and  television  "Richards,"  too. 


eyes  and  hair.  This  "private  dick"  actually 
was  named  Richard  by  his  parents,  but 
changed  name  to  David  for  professional 
use.  Janssen  enjoys  keeping  up  with  a 
heavy  reading  schedule,  and  follows  "most 
sports." 

Graham  Feature 

Compliments  and  salutations  on  this 
month's  (October's)  issue  of  TV  Radio 
Mirror  for  the  many  interesting  resumes 
of  our  popular  and  entertaining  stars.  But 
especially  commendable  was  the  feature 
story  on  Billy  Graham  and  his  family.  .  .  . 
Billy  Graham's  religion  has  helped  so  many 
people — especially  young  people — by  tak- 
ing the  stuffiness  out  of  religion,  helping 
them  to  know  faith  is  something  to  be 
lived  with  day  by  day,  something  which 
can  be  applied  to  all  our  problems,  if  it's 
only  given  the  chance.  The  story  on  the 
Graham  family  does  much  to  prove  this. 
Mrs.  L.  R.,  Fredricton,  N.  B.,  Canada 

Calling  All  Fans 

The  following  fan  clubs  invite  new  mem- 
bers. If  you  are  interested,  write  to  address 
given — not  to  TV  Radio  Mirror. 

Mouseketeers  Fan  Club,  c/o  Sherrie 
Bargatze,  3802  Murphy  Rd.,  Nashville  9, 
Tennessee. 

Future  Stars  Fan  Club,  c/o  Carolyn 
Reaves,  5305  Acadia  Terrace,  Fairfield, 
Alabama. 

Sal  Mineo  Fan  Club,  c/o  Lois  La  Char- 
ity, 31  South  5th  Street,  Zanesville.  Ohio. 


It's  No  Secret 

Please    write    about    William    Hopper, 

who  is  Perry  Mason's  contact,  Paul  Drake. 

E.  S.,  Cleveland,  Ohio 

It's  no  secret  Perry  Mason's  right-hand 
man  is  a  private  eye.  And  many  people 
know  that  this  "eye,"  in  private  life,  is 
William  Hopper,  veteran  film  and  TV 
actor.  Bill  has  had  a  personal  life  as 
varied  and  adventurous  as  any  Erie  Stanley 
Gardner  could  ever  dream  up  for  Drake. 
An  actor  before  World  War  II,  when  Pearl 
Harbor  put  a  violent  period  to  our  neu- 
trality, Bill  enlisted  in  the  Navy  and  served 
in  the  South  Pacific  with  the  O.S.S.  under- 
water demolition  teams.  Then,  a  much- 
decorated  hero  returned  to  Hollywood  and 
a  salesman's  life  for  eight  years — till  a 
Warner  Bros,  director  signed  him  for  "The 
High  and  the  Mighty."  In  "Rebel  Without 
a  Cause,"  he  was  Natalie  Wood's  father. 
On  TV,  Bill  has  appeared  on  Warner 
Bros*  Presents  and  Cheyenne. 


FOR  YOUR  INFORMATION— If  there's 
something  you  want  to  know  about  radio 
and  television,  write  to  Information  Booth, 
TV  Radio  Mirror.  205  East  42nd  St.,  New 
York  17,  N.  Y.  We'll  answer,  if  we  can, 
provided  your  question  is  of  general  inter- 
est. Answers  will  appear  in  this  column — 
but  be  sure  to  attach  this  box  to  your 
letter,  and  specify  whether  it  concerns 
radio  or  TV.   Sorry,  no  personal  answers. 


11 


FABULOUS 
FINCH 

They  like  to  call  him 
"Michigan's  Arthur  Godfrey,"  but 
Howard  Finch  has  a  special  way 
of  his  own  on  WJIM  and  W  JIM-TV 


Howard's  a  veteran,  a  veep — and  a  man  who'll  try  any- 
thing.   In    a    diving    suit,    he    explored    WJIM's    new    pool. 


At  home,  Howard  charcoals  a  steak  for  Jane  and  daughter 
Debbie.  Dachshunds  Hilda  and  Hansel  wait  for  the  scraps. 


12 


A  junior,  home-grown  edition  of  Arthur  Godfrey — 
that's  how  Michigan  thinks  of  Howard  Finch  of 
Station  WJIM  and  WJIM-TV  in  Lansing.  The  resem- 
blance is  there.  Godfrey  has  curly,  sandy -red  hair.  So 
does  "Howdy"  Finch.  Likewise  the  freckles.  Both  have 
originality,  personality  and  versatility.  Godfrey  will 
try  anything,  from  letting  an  elephant  bring  a  paw  down 
on  his  chest  to  playing  bass  fiddle  with  the  Vagabonds. 
Finch  is  not  a  man  to  balk,  either,  whether  it's  climbing 
into  a  diving  suit  to  explore  the  pool  at  the  new  WJIM 
Country  House  or  subbing  on  a  cooking  show  and  creat- 
ing "Shrimp  a  la  Finch."  Howard  goes  Arthur  one  better 
in  the  music  department,  for  he  not  only  plays  a  very 
good  ukulele,  but  also  a  bit  of  violin  and  piano,  a  very 
fine  clarinet — and,  in  a  pinch,  can  sit  in  with  the  trap 
drums.  ...  A  native  of  Battle  Creek,  Howard  Finch  was 
one  of  America's  International  Oratorical  Champions  at 
age  sixteen  and  won  himself  a  trip  to  South  America. 
One  of  his  earliest  radio  associates  was  Joe  Kelly,  with 
whom  he  put  on  the  first  Quiz  Kids  show  in  Battle  Creek. 
Soon  after,  Howard  joined  the  staff  of  Lansing's  WJIM, 
and  he  is  now  vice  president  of  Gross  Telecasting,  Inc., 
the  basis  for  operation  of  both  WJIM  and  WJIM-TV.  .  .  . 


At  one  time  or  another,  and  often  simultaneously,  How- 
ard has  been  a  writer,  director,  salesman,  producer, 
sportscaster,  newscaster,  emcee.  Perhaps  the  favorite 
Finch  is  the  friendly,  philosophical  one  that  carries  over 
from  his  famous  Linger  Awhile  broadcasts  to  his  current 
Moments  Of  Meditation,  seen  daily  at  8:  55  A.M.,  and  his 
Goodnight  Prayer,  the  sign-off  for  both  WJIM  Radio  and 
TV.  Howdy  adds  a  little  foolishness  to  the  philosophy  as 
he  hosts  Country  House  Matinee,  a  daily  variety  and 
audience-participation  show  scheduled  at  3:30  P.M.  He 
telecasts  the  Noon  News  and  also  airs  all  the  Michigan 
State  football  games  for  a  nine-station  hookup  that  is 
called  the  Michigan  National  Network.  .  .  .  Howard's 
philosophy  is  the  homey,  family  kind,  and  he  practices  it 
with  a  family  of  his  own.  He  met  his  wife  Jane  when 
she  joined  the  WJIM  staff  as  an  executive  secretary. 
They  now  have  a  daughter,  Debbie,  who's  eight,  and  a 
son,  Duncan  Howard,  born  last  August.  As  the  young- 
sters grow  up,  they  can  catch  up  on  what  made  their 
dad  a  part  of  almost  every  family  in  listening  and  view- 
ing distance.  A  book  will  soon  be  published  that  will 
give  permanent  form  to  the  hundreds  of  most-requested 
bits   of   humor    and   philosophy    of   the    fabulous   Finch. 


WHAT'S  NEW — EAST 

(Continued  from  page  7) 


who  is  spontaneous,  good-humored, 
completely  herself.  I  don't  like  people 
who  just  go  along  with  the  crowd." 

TV  in  Hi-Fi:  The  King,  Bing  Crosby, 
coming  back  fresh  this  year  in  radio 
and  TV,  with  new  and  very  persuasive 
crooning  of  "Avalon,"  "I'm  Con- 
fessin',"  "Georgia  on  My  Mind,"  and 
others  backed  up  with  the  radio  trio 
of  Buddy  Cole.  Decca  calls  it  "Bing's 
New  Tricks."  .  .  .  And  the  Durante 
duets  with  Hope,  Crosby,  Cantor, 
Helen  Traubel  and  Peter  Lawford  that 
made  TV  history  have  been  waxed 
into  a  Decca  Album,  "Club  Durante." 
He's  so  great.  .  .  .  Sweetie  Gisele 
MacKenzie  has  responded  to  a  demand 
for  an  album  of  romantic  French 
songs.  As  a  native  of  Winnipeg,  she 
sings  French  and  English  with  equal 
fluency.  This  charming  assortment  is 
whipped  cream  and  dessert  all  the  way 
and  it's  in  a  Vik  album,  "Mam'selle 
Gisele."  .  .  .  Garroway's  bright-eyed 
Helen  O'Connell  achieved  fame  first 
as  a  vocalist  with  Jimmy  Dorsey.  Her 
recordings  of  "Gi-een  Eyes,"  "Tan- 
gerine," and  "Amapola"  sold  a  total  of 
seven  million.  Now  Helen  has  re- 
created these  songs  along  with  nine 
others  for  Vik  in  a  twelve-incher 
called,  appropriately,  "Green  Eyes." 

Program  Preview:  On  November  12, 
a  man  in  Philadelphia,  William  Hale 
Thompson,  will  be  greatly  moved  by  a 
tribute  to  the  devotion  of  his  deceased 
wife.  On  TV's  Telephone  Time,  the 
story  will  be  told  how  Hoagy  Car- 
michael  came  to  write  the  famous  "I 
Get  Along  Without  You  Very  Well." 
Pressed  for  a  new  song  for  a  radio 
premiere,  Hoagy  found  the  poem,  "I 
Get  Along,  etc."  in  an  old  file.  It  had 
been  given  to  him  by  a  coed  at  a 
Kappa  Kappa  Gamma  dance  when  he 
was  an  undergraduate  at  Indiana. 
Hoagy  wrote  music  to  the  verse  and 
everyone  thought  it  was  great,  but 
then  they  had  to  have  permission  of 
the  poet.  Winchell,  in  his  radio  show, 
initiated  the  search  for  the  writer  and 
they  found  the  sorority  gal  had  copied 
the  poem  from  a  magazine.  It  had 
been  written  by  a  housewife  as  an  ex- 
pression of  her  devotion  to  her  hus- 
band. Jean  Thompson  was  located  in 
Philadelphia  but  found  to  be  very  ill. 
They  got  her  legal  release,  but  the 
truth  is  that  she  died  the  same  eve- 
ning the  song  premiered  nationally. 
Fame  knocked  minutes  before  death. 

The  Crystal  Ball  Dept.:  With  all  the 
Westerns  blazing  away  on  TV,  it  had 
to  happen.  Word  comes  of  a  new  series 
in  preparation  titled  Man  Without  A 
Gun.  If  this  trend  takes  hold,  we'll 
have  "Man  Without  a  Horse,"  then 
"Man  Without  a  Shirt,"  until  eventu- 
ally the  cowboy  is  stripped  down  to 
Tarzan's  loin  cloth.  And  then  we'll 
have  an  onslaught  of  jungle  dramas 
with  heroes  speaking  one -syllable 
words  and  grunting  as  they  swing  in 
the  trees.   It  can  happen  here. 


New  Patterns 
for  You 


4774 — Ideal  cover-up  apron  for  kitchen  chores. 
Sew  in  gay  cotton,  contrast  binding.  Printed  Pat- 
tern in  Women's  Sizes.  Small  (36,  38)  ;  Medium 
(40,  42);  Large  (44,  46);  Extra  Large  (48,  50). 
Small  size  takes  2  yards  35-inch.  State  size.  35^ 


9021 — Simple,  becoming  lines  in  a  half-size 
fashion  that  takes  well  to  either  dressy  or  casual 
fabrics.  Printed  Pattern  in  Sizes  141/^-241/4.  Size 
16%  takes  3J/2  yards  39-inch  fabric.  State  size.  35^ 


9178 — Stunning  two-piece  dress  with  graceful 
princess  bodice.  Printed  Pattern  in  Misses'  Sizes 
12-20.  Size  16  takes  4%  yards  35-inch  fabric ; 
Y2  yard  contrast.  State  size.  35^ 


4774 

SIZES 

S- 36-38 

M— 40-42 

L-44-46 

Ex.  L-48-50 


Send  thirty-five  cents  (in  coin)  for  each  pattern  to:  TV  Radio  Mirror,  Pattern  Depart- 
ment, P.O.  Box  137,  Old  Chelsea  Station,  New  York  11,  New  York.  Add  five  cents  for 
each    pattern    for    first-class    mailing.    Be    sure    to    specify   pattern   number  and   size. 


13 


CUY  ON  THE  CO 


Carl  Casperson  is 
seen  and  heard  over  KDAL 
but  his  busy  schedule 
is  still  hard  to  believe 


Carl  is  at  sixes — as  to  his  shows  and  children — and  in  seventh   heaven.  June 
is  holding  Leigh;  Mary,  Kay,  Dean  are  on  floor;  Carl  and  Robert  next  to  dad. 


14 


There's  only  one  Carl  Casperson,  even  if  he  wears  three 
hats  over  at  Station  KDAL  Radio  and  TV  in  Duluth. 
And,  though  all  work  and  no  play  may  make  Jack  a  dull 
boy,  it  makes  Carl  an  outstanding  entertainment  figure 
in  the  Midwest.  The  "no  play"  is  a  bit  inaccurate,  though, 
for  Carl  somehow  stretches  the  day  to  make  room  for  a 
romp  with  his  family.  .  .  .  Behind  the  scenes,  Carl's  official 
title  is  Program  Manager  of  KDAL  Radio.  For  most  men, 
this  would  be  a  full-time  job,  but  Carl  juggles  two  others 
along  with  his  desk  duties.  As  a  radio  personality,  he 
starts  each  weekday  with  the  Last  Word  show,  at 
10:35  A.M.  At  3  P.M.  each  weekday,  he  presides  over 
Party  Line,  a  program  which  Mrs.  Homemaker  can  call 
about  anything  from  a  household  problem,  to  a  recipe 
she'd  like  to  pass  along,  to  a  lost  or  found  article.  During 
a  typical  week,  anything  from  using  bear  grease  to  pro- 
mote the  growth  of  hair  to  a  new  cure  for  insomnia  might 
be  discussed.  On  Saturdays,  at  4  P.M.,  Carl  is  proprietor 
of  Music  Shop,  and  he's  back  the  next  day  with  Serenade 
To  A  Sunday,  from  1  to  5  P.M.  .  .  .  Carl  has  been  with 
KDAL  since  1948  and,  when  KDAL-TV  came  into  being 
in  1954,  he  simply  switched  on  another  facet  of  his  talent. 
He's   seen    each   weekday    at   10: 10   P.M.    with    Weather 


Report  and  he  hosts  the  IGA  Theater  each  Thursday  from 
10: 15  to  midnight  ....  On  camera,  on  mike  or  in  person, 
Carl  projects  a  friendly,  "from  me  to  you"  personality. 
His  interest  in  broadcasting  began  as  he  watched  with 
fascination  the  construction  of  a  radio  station  in  his  home 
town  of  Ashland,  Wisconsin.  He  was  still  a  senior  in 
high  school  when  he  began  his  career  as  an  announcer 
at  Ashland's  WATW  and,  after  being  graduated  from 
Northland  College,  he  continued  his  radio  work.  He  went 
on-the-air  in  Augusta,  Georgia,  and  then  in  Iron  Moun- 
tain, Michigan,  where  he  met  and  married  June  Kennedy, 
the  receptionist,  bookkeeper  and  copywriter  at  the  same 
station  where  Carl  was  a  very  popular  announcer.  .  .  . 
When  the  Caspersons  arrived  in  Duluth,  they  set  up 
housekeeping  in  a  small,  vine-covered  bungalow.  They 
outgrew  that  quickly  and  are  now  happier  by  the  half- 
dozen  in  an  eight-room  Colonial  home.  Carl  and  June 
have  three  sons — Robert,  12,  Carl,  8,  and  Dean,  7 — and 
three  daughters — Mary,  5,  Kay,  4,  and  Leigh,  2.  Carl's 
hobbies  include  swimming,  golfing,  and  a  stamp  collection 
that  was  greatly  enriched  by  his  wartime  travels  for  the 
Merchant  Marine.  Without  even  crossing  the  Duluth  city 
line,  Carl  Casperson  is  still  very  much  a  guy  on  the  go. 


LETS 
DANCE ! 


John  Fisher  hosts  KTVH's 
Hi-Fi  Hop — but,  he  says, 
the    kids    are    the    "stars'" 


On  cameras,  teens  take  the  spotlight.  At  home, 
John  and  Jo  Ann  dance  attention  on  baby  Elaine. 


Teenagers  by  the  hundreds  dance  at  Hi-Fi  Hop's  outdoor  first-birthday  bal 


The  kids  are  dancing  again!  That's  the  news  that  has  Tin 
Pan  Alley  doing  handsprings — but  it's  news  that's  being 
made  as  far  away  from  the  musical  main  stem  as  Wichita, 
Kansas.    Each  weekday  at  5  P.M.,  over  Station  KTVH, 
Central  Kansas  teenagers  fill  the  studio  to  munch  on  potato 
chips,  wash  them  down  with  soda  pop  and,  thus  stoked  up 
on  energy,  dance.    At  their  homes,  other  teenagers  keep 
an  eye  on  the  screen  and  an  ear  tuned  to  the  beat  as  they 
follow  in  the  blue-suede  footsteps  of  their  twirling  contem- 
poraries.  All  this  terpsichore  is  called  the  Hi-Fi  Hop  and 
is  hosted  by  John  Fisher,  an  amiable,  informal  fellow  who 
knows  that  the  best  beat  comes  from  the  heart  .  .  .  John 
kids  with  the  kids,  awards  prizes  and  keeps  the  rock  'n'  roll 
and  romantic  records  going.    The  teenagers,  he  says,  are 
the  show's  "stars,"  and  that's  what  he  calls  them.    The  TV 
camera  follows  the  dancers,  focusing  now  on  the  intense 
concentration  of  a  teen's  face,  moving  to  pause  a  few  seconds 
on  a  pair  of  feminine  flats  moving  beside  two  larger,  heavier- 
soled  cordovans,  catches  a  swirl  of  crinoline  or  the  grin 
of  someone  who's  just  stepped  on  his  partner's  toes.  .  .  . 
The  host,  of  course,  is  the  most.    Born  in  Los  Angeles,  John 
says  his  ambition  always  was  to  be  on  radio  or  TV.  When 
his  family  moved  to  St.  Paul,  John,  then  in  high  school, 
tried  for  his  first  job  on  a  teen-age  deejay  show.    He 
didn't  get  it!    He  had  more  success  when  he  returned  to 
California  to  win  a  scholarship  to  Fullerton  Junior  College, 
where  he  majored  in  music.    "I  studied  classical  singing 
for  four  years,"  he  relates,  "Now,  the  only  singing  I  do  is 
on  the  show — sparingly — and  in  the  bathroom."   ...  A 
stint  in  the  Army,  though,  found  John  singing  for  the  NCO 
Club's  band  and  then  broadcasting  for  Air  Force  Radio. 
When  he  switched  back  to  mufti,  he  studied  at  the  American 
Institute   of   the   Air   in   Minneapolis,    then   became   an 
announcer  for  KCAJ  in  Charles  City,  Iowa.  At  coffee  breaks, 
he'd  go  to  the  nearby  Allen's  Cafe.   By  the  time  he  moved 
to  Wichita  in  1955,  John  took  with  him  the  proprietor's  niece, 
Jo  Ann  Esser,  as  his  bride.  .  .  .  The  Fishers  live  in  a  com- 
fortable,  two-bedroom   house   with   their   infant   daughter, 
Elaine  Rochelle.   Both  Jo  and  Elaine  occasionally  visit  the 
Hi-Fi  Hop,  an  added  treat  provided  by  John  Fisher,  the 
man  who's  taken  the  song-and-dance  route  to  the  hearts 
of  teenagers — and  viewers  in  their  post-teens,  as  well. 


15 


Country  girl  and  city  boy, 
Shirley  Jones  and  Pat  Boone 
discover  a  lot  in  common,  at 
the  reins  of  a   racing  sulky. 


TV 


MZU>MO 
MIRROR 


*h 


Ky    'Jm                 H    ^^ 

*^i 

^^ 

*vi 

^ "  Ji- 

By  JANET  GRAVES 


A   stiff?     So    Kovacs   thinks. 
But  Lemmon   is   ribbing   him. 


16 


Brando    and    friend    Garner 
compare  problems  in  Japan. 


TV  favorites  on 

your  theater  screen 


April  Love 

20th;  cinemascope,  de  luxe  color 
Pat  Boone's  right  at  home  in  a  homey, 
down-on-the-farm  musical  that  returns  to 
the  screen  the  charm  of  such  beloved  pic- 
tures as  "State  Fair."  He  plays  a  kid 
who  gets  into  trouble  in  Chicago  and  is 
sent  on  probation  to  his  uncle's  farm. 
There's  an  amusing  clash  between  Pat's 
city  ways  and  the  country  know-how  of  a 
pretty  neighbor,  Shirley  Jones.  And  his 
initiation  into  sulky-racing  brings  the 
movie  a  tang  of  excitement.  You'll  be 
hearing  plenty  of  the  tunes  from  the  pic- 
ture's score,  like  the  melodious  "April 
Love"  and  "Give  Me  a  Gentle  Girl"  and 
the  lively  "Do  It  Yourself." 

Sayonara 

WARNERS,    TECHNIRAMA,    TECHNICOLOR 

As  lovers  in  this  deeply  touching  drama, 
Marlon  Brando  and  Miiko  Taka  get  fine 
support  from  a  pair  of  players  well-known 
on  TV:  James  Garner,  Red  Buttons.  The 
story  is  set  in  Japan,  while  the  Korean 
War  is  on.  There  Marlon,  of  the  U.  S. 
Air  Force,  and  Miiko,  of  the  Japanese 
theater,  meet  and  fall  in  love,  defying 
Army  disapproval.  Garner  doffs  the  West- 
ern get-ups  of  his  Maverick  role  to  play 
an  officer  who  also  casts  an  appreciative 


eye  on  Oriental  beauty.  But  it  is  Red  who 
scores  the  surprise  hit  of  the  film.  As  a 
comic,  he's  been  considered  through  on 
TV.  As  a  dramatic  actor,  he  begins  a 
new  career,  playing  a  GI  devoted  to  his 
Japanese  wife. 

Operation  Mad  BalD 

COLUMBIA 

You'll  have  a  ball,  as  noncom  Jack  Lem- 
mon and  his  pals  plot  to  get  together  with 
lovelies  who  hold  commissions  in  the  Army 
Nurse  Corps.  (That's  against  the  rules, 
men!)  Lots  of  the  laughs  in  this  laugh- 
filled  farce  are  supplied  by  Ernie  Kovacs' 
performance  as  a  pompous  officer,  the 
boys'  chief  obstacle.  And  Mickey  Rooney, 
often  a  TV  performer,  also  shows  his 
all-around  skill. 

At  Your  Neighborhood  Theaters 

The  Joker  Is  Wild  (Paramount,  Vista- 
Vision)  :  Singer-actor  Frank  Sinatra  uses 
both  talents  to  play  Joe  E.  Lewis.  Strong, 
wry,  offbeat  music-drama. 

The  Three  Faces  of  Eve  (20th,  Cinema- 
Scope)  :  TV-trained  Joanne  Woodward  is 
an  Oscar-bidder  as  a  Southern  housewife 
tormented  by  her  evil  hidden  self. 

The  Helen  Morgan  Story  (Warners,  Cine- 
maScope)  :  Ann  Blyth  plays  the  unhappy 
singer;  Paul  Newman  and  Richard  Carl- 
son, her  men.  The  tunes  are  tops! 


Showing  this  month 


ACT  OF  LOVE  (U.A.):  Wistful  romance 
of  World  War  II.  Lonely  GI  Kirk  Douglas 
has  an  affair  with  Dany  Robin,  homeless 
French  girl,  and  the  adventure  turns  seri- 
ous. Robert  Strauss  is  Kirk's  buddy. 

ADVENTURES  OF  ROBINSON  CRU- 
SOE (U.A.)  :  Splendid  film  version  of  the 
beloved  classic.  As  the  most  famous  of 
castaways,  Dan  O'Herlihy  makes  you  share 
each  moment  of  solitude,  desperation,  peace, 
courage.  James  Fernandez  plays  Friday. 

AFRICAN  QUEEN,  THE  (U.A.)  :  Hum 
phrey  Bogart's  Oscar-winner  teams  him  with 
Katie  Hepburn.  As  a  disreputable  river  rat 
and  a  prissy  spinster,  they  face  danger  and 
rind  love,  deep  in  Africa  of  World  War  I. 
Funny,  exciting,  touching. 

CANTERVILLE  GHOST,  THE  (M-G- 
M)  :  Pleasantly  comic  ghost  story.  In  War 
II,  GI's  including  Robert  Young  invade  the 
castle  haunting  grounds  of  cowardly  spook 
Charles  Laughton.  With  Margaret  O'Brien. 

CANYON  CROSSROADS  (U.A.) :  Doing 
a  lively  switch  on  the  Western,  Richard 
Basehart  hunts  uranium  instead  of  gold, 
courts  Phyllis  Kirk,  battles  a  claim-jumper 
who  rides  a  'copter. 

DEADLINE  AT  DAWN  (RKO)  :  Modest 
but  effective  suspense  tale,  involving  dance 
hostess  Susan  Hayward  in  the  danger  that 
threatens  sailor  Bill  Williams. 

GOG  (U.A.):  The  machines  get  out  of 
hand  in  this  wild  science-fiction  item, '  as 
U.S.  agents  Richard  Egan  and  Constance 
Dowling  investigate  mysterious  havoc  at  a 
space-station    laboratory    in    New.  Mexico. 

HEIDI  (20th):  Films  from  Shirley  Tem- 
ple's heyday  now  return  to  show  wliy  she 
was  the  most  popular  of  talkie-era  child 
stars.  In  the  charming  juvenile  story,  she 
is  the  little  girl  visiting  grandpa  (Jean 
Hersholt)   in  the  Swiss  Alps. 

KATHLEEN  (M-G-M) :  Sentimental  dra- 
ma takes  Shirley  into  teen  years,  as  a  wor- 
ried youngster  whose  rich  dad  (Herbert 
Marshall)  wants  to  marry  a  siren  (Gail 
Patrick).  But  wholesome  Laraine  Day  is 
around,  too. 

HOME  OF  THE  BRAVE  (U.A.)  Power 
ful  study  of  race  prejudice.  James  Edwards 
is  a  Negro  GI;  Lloyd  Bridges  and  Frank 
Lovejoy,  fellow  soldiers  on  a  dangerous 
Pacific-island  mission. 

REBECCA  OF  SUNNYBROOK  FARM 

(20th)  :  In  a  light-hearted  musical  bearing 
no  resemblance  to  the  old-time  favorite 
story,  Shirley  Temple's  a  resourceful  orphan 
who  crashes  radio.  Her  dance  sequences 
with  Bill  Robinson  are  highlights. 

TOO  LATE  FOR  TEARS   (U.A.) :  In  a 

rough  action  story,  Lizabeth  Scott  plays  a 
dame  who  just  loves  money.  Arthur  Ken- 
nedy's her  honest  husband;  Dan  Duryea,  a 
hood  who's  not  as  tough  as  Liz. 

TORRID  ZONE  (Warners)  :  Rowdy, 
risque,  entertaining.  On  a  Honduras  ba- 
nana plantation,  boss  Pat  O'Brien  slugs  it 
out  with  foreman  James  Cagney.  Stranded 
show-girl  Ann  Sheridan  livens  the  plot 
further,   setting  up   rivalry. 


ostay/ 


Tired  of  lipsticks  that  don't  stay  on. . . 

that  dry. . .  are  priced  too  high  ? 

Change  to  creamier,  longer-lasting  Cutex! 


SO  CREAMY,  YOU'LL  LOVE  the  way  Cutex  with 
Sheer  Lanolin  moisturizes  and  smooths  your  lips,  pro- 
tects against  chapping  and  roughness  . . .  never  irri- 
tates like  drying,  "deep  stain"  lipsticks.  The  instant 
you  glide  on  creamy  Cutex,  lips  shimmer  with  radiant 
smoothness  . . .  feel  as  soft  and  luscious  as  they  look. 

SO  NON-SMEARING,  HE'LL  LOVE  you  for  wearing 
Cutex  Lipstick !  Color  is  there  to  stay,  all  day . . .  stays 
on  YOU,  only  you.  One  kiss  will  prove  it !  69^ 


sheer  lanolin  lipstick 

For  a  minute  miracle  in  hand  beauty— try  new  Cutex  Hand  Cream 


Li-fe  Begin 
*  Midnight* 

John  J.  Miller  knows  celebrities 

by  the  column,  but  the  years  leading 

news  item  was  a  young  stranger 


John  and  Cindy  tour  the  town  together,  though  she's  more  of 
a  homebody,  now  Gregg's  on  the  scene.  "Valentine"  approves. 


When  the  phone  rings  for  John,  it's  news — anything 
from  celebrity  capers  to  major  or  minor  mayhem. 

When  Hollywood  filmed  "Sweet  Smell  of 
Success,"  a  picture  of  a  columnist  as  a  heel, 
part  of  the  kick  was  in  trying  to  tag  real  names 
to  the  celluloid  figures.    The  initials  J.J.,  by  which 
the  anti-hero  is  known,  and  his  eyeglasses — 
"but  only  the  upper  part" — can  be  traced  to  John 
J.  Miller.  "Those  are  the  only  things  I  can  recog- 
nize as  being  borrowed  from  anyone  I  know," 
says  John.    "The  picture  is  great  entertainment, 
but  it's  science  fiction."  .  .  .  Columnists  aren't  cads, 
says  John,  who  thinks  the  true  picture  is  that  of  a 
fellow  who  loves  the  city  best  from  her  dusk-to- 
dawn  hours.    John's  capsule  reports  on  Broadway 
are  heard  every  hour  on  the  hour  on  some  seventy 
radio  and  TV  stations  around  the  country.    For 
three  years  now,  or  ever  since  he  was  old  enough 
to  get  a  drink  in  the  pubs  he  patrols,  he  has  been 
bylining  the  news  of  his  nightly  vigils  in  the 
New  York  Enquirer,  and  his  column  is  also 
syndicated  in  six  other  newspapers.    "To  me,  what 
I'm  doing  as  a  job  is  really  play,"  says  John. 
"If  it  weren't  my  job,  I'd  be  doing  it  anyway, 
as  often  as  I  could."  .  .  .  John's  life  as  a  columnist 
fits  nicely  with  his  marriage  to  Cindy,  a  former 
singer  a  la  Jeri  Southern.    The  Millers  generally 
are  on  the  town  together  until  half -past  one, 
when  Cindy  returns  to  their  East  End  Avenue 
apartment  and  John  continues  the  prowl  alone 
until  dawn.     With  this  schedule,  they've  no 
complaints  about  their  infant  daughter  Gregg 
keeping  them  awake  at  night — it's  the  baby  cries 
at  noon  that  might  disturb  the  Millers,  if  Gregg's 
arrival  weren't  the  headline  of  their  year.  .  .  . 
John  estimates  that  a  little  more  than  half  of 
his  friends  are  involved  in  show  business  in 
some  way.     Some  star  performers,  like  Sammy 
Davis,  Jr.,  are  close  personal  friends.     "But  that 
wouldn't  keep  me  from  printing  an  item  that  might 
embarrass  Sammy,"  says  John,  "and  what  I  like 
about  Sammy  is  that  he  understands  there  are 
two  different  realms."  ...  At  twenty-one,  John 
Joseph  Miller  is  probably  the  youngest  syndicated 
Broadway  columnist  in  the  country.    But  he's  bee: 
at  it  since  age  eleven,  when  he  compiled  news 
from  sports  pages  and  sold  carbon  copies  to  his 
family  at  five  cents  apiece.  Soon,  he  was  selling 
copies  to  his  schoolmates,  too,  then  adding  neigh- 
borhood and  personality  items.  The  column 
flourished  to  the  point  where  its  publisher  was  able 
to  switch  from  carbon  copies  to  mimeograph.  By 
the  time  Generoso  Pope  heard  of  it  and  hired  John 
for  his  Enquirer,'  the  column  had  a  mailing  list  of 
2,500.  Seems  John  J.  Miller  was  born  at  midnight 
and  has  been  bewitched  by  that  hour  ever  since. 


I 


18 


Can  a  wife  hold  her  world  together  with  her  love? 

come  from  different  worlds,  you  and  he.  Yet  always  in  the  past . . .  your  love, 
faith  in  the  future,  has  kept  you  close.  Secure  in  each  other.  Now  though, 
|>mes  the  real  test.  Your  husband's  brother  is  out  to  tear  down  the  happiness 
Ve  built.  He's  ruthless . . .  and  you're  afraid.  This  time,  will  the  strength  of 
love  be  enough?  This  time,  is  there  even  a  halfway  chance  to  save  your 
arriage?  You  can  get  the  whole  story- even  while  you  work-when  you  listen 


lavtime  radio.    Hear  OUR  GAL  SUNDAY  on  the  CBS  RADIO  NETWORK. 

Monday  through  Friday.  See  your  local  paper  for  station  and  time. 


,ooo 


The  Greatest 


ry  off  all 


Presenting  Peter  Lindsey  March,  whose  picture  was  shown 
on  $64,000  Question  program  when  he  was  only  a  few 
hours  old.  Hal  and  Candy  prep  him  for  second  sitting. 


To  Hal  March,  there's  no  question 
about  it.    The  category?   Fatherhood. 
And,  in  baby  Peter,  Hal  and  Candy 
have  their  own  little  all-time  winner  I 


By  DIANNE  SCOTT 


Once  upon  a  time  there  was  a  baby — a -first 
baby — and  in  the  case  of  Peter  Lindsey,  a  most 
unusual  baby.  He  was  on  The  $64,000  Question 
when  he  was  two  hours  old.  His  category  was 
fathers — and  he  had  courageously  chosen  Hal  March! 

About  the  name  Peter  Lindsey,  however,  he 
had  no  choice.    His  four-year-old  brother,   Stevie, 
named  him  long  before  he  was  born. 

"This  child  of  ours  would  have  been  named 
Peter  if  he'd  turned  out  to  be  a  girl.   It  wouldn't 
have  made  any  difference,"  Hal  laughs  now.   "Stevie 
has  been  up  to  his  neck  in  girls  since  he  was  born. 
He  had  a  sister,  a  mommie,  a  nurse  and,  if 
I  was  away  from  the  house,  he  was  surrounded 


continued 


* 


"Country  life  is  great,"  say  Hal  and  Candy.  They  moved 
from  city  after  Peter's  birth.  With  them  are  Candy's 
Melissa    and    Steven,    children    by    her   former    marriage. 


The 
,000  Category  off  all 


(Continued) 

by  women.  So,  from  the  first,  Steve  was  determined  he 
would  have  a  brother  and  we  would  name  him 
Peter.  He  had  a  little  friend  he'd  met  in  Central  Park 
named  Peter — a  little  guy  who  was  all  boy,  all 
man — and  that's  what  Stevie  wanted.  Not  a  Billy 
or  a  Donny  or  anybody  else." 

To  Stevie,   this  brother-to-come  was  very 
real  and  very  near.    Hal  and  Candy  had  answered 
his  natural  questions  as  honestly  as  they  could. 
"There's  been  no  mystery — no  saying  the  baby  would 
come  from  heaven,"  Hal  says.    "Stevie  used  to 
come  into  our  room  every  morning  and  visit  'Peter.' 
He'd  say  'hello'  to  Peter  first,  and  then  to  Candy 
and  me.    He  would  put  his  ear  close  to  Candy's 
tummy  and  say,  'Good  morning,  Peter.' 

"  'Suppose  God  gives  you  another  sister,'  I'd  say, 
trying  to  prepare  him. 

"  'I've  got  one  sister,'  Stevie  would  remind  me. 

"  'Well,  it's  possible  for  God  to  give  you  another 
one,'   his  mother  would   say. 

"Stevie  would  think  about  that.  Then  he'd  say,  'Well, 
if  God  gives  me  another  sister,  I'm  going  to  throw 
both  of  my  sisters  out  of  this  apartment.'   He 
was  quite  determined  about  it.  He'd  say,  'He's  my 
brother.    And  his  name  is  Peter.' 

"I  think  we  might  have  had  a  little  discussion 
about  it  if  he'd  wanted  to    (Continued  on  page  79) 


Kock-a-bye  baby.  Fond  father  March  has  proved  very 
handy  with  Peter,  enjoys  helping  Candy  care  for  him. 


Hal  March  emcees  The  $64,000  Question,  CBS-TV,  Tues.,  10  P.M. 
EST,  as  sponsored  by  Revlon,  Inc.  He  moderates  What's  It  For? 
NBC-TV,  Sat.,  10  P.M.  EST,  sponsored  by  Pharmaceuticals,  Inc. 


0 

P 

'  wf 

- 

LMI 

/, 

*- 

_ 

...- 

H 

Five  big  smiles  for  the  camera.  Loving  parents  Hal  and  Candy  March,  with  Melissa,  Peter  and  Steven. 


Steven  and  Melissa,  have  turned  into  high  climbers  in 
their  own  back-yard  playground.  Candy  supervises  play. 


Peter  Lindsey's  not  a  member  of  the  back-yard  set  as  yet, 
but  commands   plenty  of  attention   in    his   own    bailiwick. 


X 


H 


£f&- 


By 
BETTY  ETTER 

Patti  at  Windsor  Castle.  Which  way? 
Feeding  piqeons  is  fun!   Patti  in  Trafalgar  Square. 

ft 

i 


Next  stop  Paris,  then  Zurich.  Charlie's  camera  took  all   pictures. 


For  Patti  Page  and  Charles  O'Curran, 
their  first  European  jaunt  together 
was  even  better  than  a  dream  come  true 


Her  two  big  bags  were  packed,  the  precious  green 
passport  was  safely  stowed  away  in  her  handbag, 
the  borrowed  camera  slung  over  her  shoulder.  Patti 
Page  took  a  last  look  at  herself  in  the  mirror  and  smiled. 
It  was  a  nervous  smile,  but  a  happy  one,  too.  Six 
months  after  their  marriage,  Patti   and  her  husband, 
dance  director  Charles  O'Curran,  were  embarking  on 


! 


their  honeymoon — and  Patti's  long-dreamed-of  trip  to 
Europe  was  about  to  come  true. 

A  honeymoon,  marriage  counselors  say,  is  a  time  set 
aside  after  the  excitement  of  the  courtship  and  the  mar- 
riage, for  a  bride  and  bridegroom  to  get  to  know  each 
other.  And  that  is  exactly  what  it  was  to  be  for  Patti 
and  her  new  husband,  Charles.  (Continued  on  page  61 ) 


Patti  Page  sings  and  acts  as  femcee  on  The  Big  Record,  seen  over  CBS-TV,  on  Wednesdays,  from  8  to  9  P.M.   EST,  as  sponsored  bv 
Pillsbury  Mills,  Inc.,  the  Kellogg   Company,  Armour  and   Company   (Dial  Soap),  and  the  Oldsmobile  Division  of  General  Motors  Corp. 


25 


** 


& 


m 


>' 


•  ■■  ■ 


WESTERN  GIANT 


Introducing  James  Garner,  star  of 
Maverick,  who  may  be  a  tough  guy  on  TV, 
but  has  a  heart  tied  close  to  home 

By  GORDON  BUDGE 


In  almost  every  young  girl's  life  there's  been  a  time 
when  she's  fallen  in  love  with  some  hombre  who  was 
never  meant  to  settle  down.  Such  a  roamer  drifted 
onto  the  ABC-TV  network  last  month  in  the  person 
of  tall,  dark  and  handsome  Bret  Maverick,  played 
by  newcomer  Jim  Garner.    In  the  minds  of  the  show's 
writers,  gambler  Maverick  is  a  man's  man,  the 
kind  who'll  chance  a  bet  on  the  last  card,  the  fastest 
horse,  most  killing  gun  or  willing  woman.   The 
series  is  based  on  Maverick's  exploits  as  he  vaga- 
bonds his  way  from  one  Western  town  to  another. 
But  Bret  Maverick  is  no  stereotyped  Western  hero: 
He  doesn't  ride  a  trained  white  horse,  wears  no  white 
hat.  In  fact,  the  horse,  an  unnamed  sorrel,  is  down- 
right mean.  The  first  day  (Continued  on  page  66) 

James  Garner  stars  in  Maverick,  seen  over  ABC-TV,  Sunday,  from 
7:30  to  8:30  P.M.  EST,  as  sponsored  by  Kaiser  Industries  Corp. 


Garner  is  a  fine  natural  athlete,  swims  at  Malibu  Beach 
whenever  busy  movie  and  TV  schedule  permits.  Below  he 
appears  in  a  scene  from  Warner  Bros,  movie  "Sayonara" 
with  Marlon  Brando,  Red  Buttons  and  actress  Miyoshi  Umeki. 


Daring  gambler  Bret  Maverick,  central  character  of  ABC-TV's 
new  series  Maverick,  is  played  by  newcomer  James  Garner.  His 
tough-guy  role  is  all  an  act,  since  in  real  life  he  is  one  of 
the  mildest  of  men.    Above  he's  with  wife  Lois,  daughter  Kim. 


fratvk:  siinatra 


The  Hoboken  Kid  came  up  swinging — 

to  spectacular  success.   But  his 

heart  is  as  tender  as  his  courage 

is  tough — particularly,  where 

those  three  youngsters  are  concerned 

By  MAXINE  ARNOLD 

He  moved  restlessly  in  the  school  auditorium, 
watching  the  wings  with  an  anxious  blue 
eye,  a  father's  anxious  blue  eye  ...  a  fa- 
mous thin  fellow  in  a  conservative  suit,  watching 
for  a  familiar,  bobbing  ponytail  attached  to  a  fig- 
ure in  a  bright  orange-and-green  ballet  costume 
whose  performance  was  all-important  to  Frank 
Sinatra.  It  was  opening  night  for  nine-year-old 
Tina  .  .  .  her  first  since  she'd  been  taking  dancing 
at   Vilma   Ebsen's   School   of   Ballet.    The   recital 


Though  Frank  and  Nancy  Sinatra  have  been  divorced,  since  their 
third  baby  was  born  in  1948,  Frank  is  still  the  most  devoted  of 
fathers.  In  fact,  it  was  his  love  for  Tina  (now  9),  Nancy,  Jr. 
(17)    and    Frank,    Jr.    (13)    which    inspired    his    current   TV    series. 


Below,  with  daughter  Nancy  after 
a  trip  to  Australia.  He  has  always 
wanted  his  children  to  have  every 
advantage  of  education   and  travel. 


From  the  first,  he  encouraged 
young  Frank  and  Nancy  to  love 
music.  Now  he  has  reason  to  be 
proud   of   their   budding   talents. 


The  "juniors"  accompanied  him  to  1954 
Academy  Awards  dinner,  proved  they  re- 
turned his  love  in  full — with  a  gift 
he   treasures    even    more    than    his    Oscar. 

Continued  w 


29 


Sinatra  (left  foreground)  with  Bill  Henri's  band  at  New 
Jersey's  Rustic  Cabin  in  1938 — when  Harry  James  spotted 
the   singing   talent   destined    to    lead    Frank   to    first   fame. 


FRANK  SINATRA 


(Continued) 


was  to  be  in  the  form  of  a  "flower  show,"  Tina  had 
announced  excitedly,  and  she  was  a  "California  wild 
poppy"  .  .  .  one  of  a  chorus  of  California  wild  poppies. 

Tina's  mother  had  made  her  costume  and  then,  at  the 
last  moment,  she'd  had  to  be  out  of  town.  Frank  Sinatra 
had  brought  Tina — an  endearing  little  pixie  whom  her 
father  calls  "Pigeon" — to  the  school  auditorium  .  .  . 
and  now  he  waited  anxiously  for  his  own  particular 
California  wild  poppy  to  come  on.  .  .  . 

It  was  a  far  different  local  opening  from  Frank  Sina- 
tra's own.  He'd  entered  the  film  capital,  termed  a 
"freak  phenomenon"  who  wouldn't  last.  A  new  singer 
with  Benny-blue  eyes,  a  warm,  electric  smile  and  a 
sliding-trombone  sound — all  of  them  well  supported  by 
a  microphone  he  held  like  it  was  Marilyn  Monroe.  He 
came  to  town  singing  "All  or  Nothing  at  All"  with  sexy, 
long,  sliding,  soft  notes  that  elicited  swoons  and  a  solid 
soprano  squeal  from  his  audiences. 

At  the  Pasadena  station,  mobs  squealed  when  he  ar- 
rived, and  loudspeakers  blared  his  latest  recordings. 
Looking  at  Sinatra  standing  there  in  the  door  of  the 
train — a  thin  fellow  almost  eclipsed  by  well-padded 
shoulders  and  a  red  polka-dot  bow  tie — you  wondered 
where  all  the  music  came  from.  Later,  you  were  to  find 
the  music  came  from  a  volcano  of  talent.  It  was  soon 
apparent  Frank  Sinatra  knew  exactly  where  he  was 
going  .  .  .  and  his  voice  had  already  been  there. 

Once,  amid  all  the  fever  and  the  screams  and  the 
whole  exhausting  show,  you'd  found  Frank  at  rehearsal 
grabbing  a  fast  lunch  in  front  of  the  microphone,  as 
usual.    He   was    eating    a    sandwich    between    bars    of 


939 — just     second-from-left 

Pied    Pipers.    But    even    then, 

"he  had  a  tremendous  sound  . 


with     Tommy     Dorsey's 

as    Jo    Stafford    says, 

.  .  and  more  than  that." 


1953:  Return  to  fame — in  drama,  not  song.  But 
the  Hoboken  Kid  had  to  fight  to  win  the  right  to 
play   Maggio   in   movie,    "From   Here  to   Eternity." 


"People  Will  Say  We're  in  Love,"  and  he  looked  beat. 

"Is  it  worth  it?"  you'd  asked  then.  "I  hope  so,"  he'd 
grinned  wearily.  .  .  . 

Today — tonight — it  was  worth  it.  Sitting  in  the  audi- 
ence, Sinatra  proudly  watched  while  a  little  girl  in  green 
satin  and  a  fluff  of  orange  tulle,  accompanied  by  eleven 
other  "California  poppies,"  did  a  simple  classical  varia- 
tion on  the  stage  at  Paul  Revere  Junior  High.  An  en- 
dearing little  girl  who  moved  very  painstakingly,  as 
though  her  whole  future  depended  on  her  performance 
there.  Tina's  father,  however,  had  just  taken  care  of  her 
future  very  handsomely,  signing  a  three-year  contract 
with  ABC-TV  for  $3,000,000  a  year— and  sixty  percent 
of  the  residuals.  Long  a  holdout  from  weekly  television, 
Frank  signed  for  the  residuals  .  .  .  for  Tina — Nancy, 
Jr.,  17 — Frank,  Jr.,  13 — and  his  former  wife,  Nancy 
Sinatra.  As  he's  said,  "For  years,  I've  been  looking  for 
a  way  to  get  into  a  position  to  set  up  a  trust  fund  for 
them.    This  is  the  way  I  can   (Continued  on  page  63) 


The  Frank  Sinatra  Show  is  seen  on  ABC-TV,  Friday,  at  9  P.M.  EST,  as  sponsored  by  Chesterfield  Cigarettes  with  Bulova  Watch  Company. 


30 


Proud  son  of  Natalie  and  Martin  Sinatra,  Frank 
wouldn't  be  "pushed  around"  in  front  of  fireman 
dad  he  idolized — as  a  little-known  battle  reveals. 


Filmdom  was  skeptical  when  "Swoonatra"  arrived  there  in 
1943,  at  height  of  bobby-sox  acclaim.  But  he  was  top  news 
to     reporters — including     writer     Maxine    Arnold     (center). 


Actor:  Academy  Award  in  1954 
was  humble,  surprising  answer 
to    previous     Hollywood    critics. 


Musician:  Frank  has  conducted 
orchestra  on  tours,  as  well  as 
for  Capitol   recording   sessions. 


Comedian:  With  Mitzi  Saynor 
"The  Joker   Is  Wild,"    Frank 


in 


re-enacts  life  of  Joe  E.   Lewis'. 


Showman:  From  movies  (above,  with  Kim  Novak 
in  "Pal  Joey")  to  clubs  (right,  at  Sands  Hotel 
in. Las  Vegas) — and  now  TV!  Show  biz  wonders  how 
he  can  stand  the  pace.  But  Sinatra  doesn't  fal- 
ter.  Always   in    his   heart,   there   are  the   children. 


Vote  lor  Your  Favorite   PROGRAMS   on   Radio  and   Television 

(Write   name   of  one   program   in   each   column   for   each   classification   except 
the     last    two    designations     below    columns) 


CLASS 


Daytime  Drama_ 
Evening  Drama_ 


Daytime  Variety. 
Evening  Variety_ 


Comedy  Program 
Music  Program 


Quiz  Program. 


Women's  Program. 


Children's   Program. 


Mystery  or  Adventure. 
Western  Program 


Best  Program  on  Air_ 
Best  New  Program 


FAVORITE    RADIO    PROGRAM 


FAVORITE   TV    PROGRAM 


Favorite   TV    Panel    Show. 


Favorite  Radio  Record  Program. 


(Cut  out  this  ballot  and  mail  to  TV  KADIO  MIRROR  AWARDS,  Box  1767,  Grand  Central  Station. 
New  York  17,  N.Y.  It  is  not  necessary  to  All  in  both  radio  and  television  sections  of  this  ballot.) 


mw 


Once  again,  your  golden  opportunity  to 
reward  the  personalities  and  programs 
which  have  meant  most  to  you  during  the 
present  year  ...  to  honor  your  favorites 
with  TV  Radio  Mirror's  highly-prized 
Gold  Medals,  as  awarded  in  the  only 
nationwide  poll  decided  by  those  most  im- 
portant of  all  critics  .  .  .  the  listeners  and 
viewers  themselves!  It's  now  the  eleventh 


year  of  this  decisive  balloting.  And  it  will 
be  "lucky  eleven"  indeed,  for  the  stars  and 
shows  which  win  your  votes.  But  the  votes 
must  be  in,  to  be  counted,  and  they  must 
be  postmarked  no  later  than  December  10, 
1957  ...  so  that  a  staff  of  independent 
tabulators  can  start  the  monumental  task 
of  adding  up  your  choices!  Fill  in  your 
ballots  now   .   .   .  the  most  secret,   most 


32 


Who  will  get  the  coveted  annual  Gold  Medals  as  your  favorite 
stars  and  programs?    The  decision  is  yours — here  is  your  final  ballot 


Vote  for  Your  Favorite  STARS  on  Radio  and  Television 

(Write   name   of   one   star   in   each    column    for    each    classification 
except   last    designation   below   column) 


CLASS 

FAVORITE  RADIO  STAR 

(specify  show  on  which  star  appears) 

FAVORITE  TV  STAR 

(specify  show  on  which  star  appears) 

Male  Singer 

Female  Singer 

Comedian 

Comedienne 

Dramatic   Actor 

Dramatic   Actress 

Daytime    Emcee 

Evening    Emcee 

Musical    Emcee 

Quizmaster 

Western  Star 

News  Commentator 

Sportscaster 

• 

Best  New  Star 

Favorite  TV  Husband  and  Wife  Team_ 


(Cut  out  this  ballot  and  mail  to  TV  RADIO  MIRROR  AWARDS,  Box  1767,  Grand  Central  Station, 
New  York  17,  N.Y.  It  is  not  necessary  to  All  in  both  radio  and  television  sections  of  this  ballot.) 


democratic  of  all  ballots,  since  you  needn't 
even  sign  your  name — just  register  your 
honest  opinions.  Your  votes-of-confidence 
will  not  only  give  credit  where  credit  is 
due  .  .  .  for  the  many,  many  hours  of  en- 
joyment your  sets  (TV  and/or  radio)  have 
been  giving  you  .  .  .  but  will  set  the  pace 
for  the  editors  in  the  months  to  come, 
showing   them   just   which   subjects   you 


would  most  like  to  see  covered  in  Ameri- 
ca's top  national  magazine  for  radio  and 
television  ...  In  fact,  the  parade  of  best- 
loved  personalities  and  programs  will  start 
with  the  May  issue  of  TV  Radio  Mirror, 
which  annually  presents  all  your  winners 
in  picture  and  story.  .  .  .  Vote  today. 
Remember,  your  ballots  must  be  post- 
marked no  later  than  December  10,  1957. 


33 


Dorothy's  more  confident  now,  facing  NBC  Bandstand  mike  with 
such  "pros"  as  emcee  Bert  Parks  and  maestro  Skitch  Henderson. 


*    * 


€Z> 

'n>>\y  il* 

mm 

**&L 

I 

i       J 

• 

*  «  .1 


Goodbye  to  57  Pounds ! 


Dorothy  Olsen  got  tired  of  hearing  people  say,  "You 
have  such  a  pretty  face.    Why  don't  you  lose 
weight?"    A  well-meaning  photographer  was  the 
last  person  who  made  her  feel  depressed  by  saying 
it.   As  a  result,  in  the  pictures  he  snapped  she  looked 
like  a  condemned  prisoner  who  had  eaten  her  last  meal. 

Dorothy,  the  singing  schoolteacher  featured  on 
NBC  Bandstand,  had  a  weight  problem  because 
psychologically  she  was  a  compulsive  eater.   Like  so 
many  big  people  who  sparkle  with  fun  and  laughter,  she 
didn't  realize  that  an  emotional  drive,  not  ordinary 
hunger,  made  her  eat  too  much.  (Continued  on  page  76) 

Dorothy  sings  on  NBC  Bandstand,  as  heard  over  NBC  Radio,  M-F, 
10:30  to  11  A.M.  and  11:05  to  noon,  under  multiple  sponsorship. 
She  was  a  winner  on  Name  That  Tune,  CBS-TV,  Tues.,  7:30  P.M., 
sponsored  by  Whitehall  Pharmacal  Co.  and  Kellogg  Co.  (All  EST) 


Pretty  Dorothy  Olsen  shed  weight 
through  hypnosis,  and  learned  that 
handsome  is  as  handsome — thinks 

By  HAROLD  BARON 


34 


Small  fry  adored  their  harp-playing  Today  husband  Ami  helps  Dorothy  keep  He's  proud,  too,  when  the  tape  shows 
teacher — even  those  who  had  to  be  watch  on  the  weight  she  must  lose,  in  another  inch  gone.  Dorothy  won't  tell 
told  why  people  are  different  sizes.       order  to   look   as   lovely   as   her   singing,      measurements  till  she  reaches  her  goal! 


Sewing  and  cooking  are  her  hobbies.  Making  new  things  to      Dorothy  has  also  switched   from   bulky  two-piece  outfits  to 
wear  is 
so  long 


a  pleasure  now.  And  steaks  are  still  on  her  diet- 
as  she  plays  "Jack  Spratt"  and  eats  only  the  lean. 


solid-color  dresses  (above,   at  Jr.    Plenty  shop)  which   make 
her  look  as  trim — if  not  so  tiny — as  Susi,  the  family  cat. 


Home  run  led  Mary  Truitt  straight  to  Danny's  heart. 

By  HELEN  BOLSTAD 

How  does  a  television  career  start?  Singer 
Danny  Costello,  who  rode  a  roller-coaster 
route  of  ups  and  downs  before  reaching  a 
featured  spot  on  the  Arthur  Godfrey  shows,  be- 
lieves his  began — not  in  a  studio — but  in  a  ball- 
park, when  third  baseman  Mary  Truitt  Peacock 
lunged  for  a  ball,  missed,  and  sprawled  flat  across 
a  field  as  slick  as  wet  green  silk.  Mud  smeared 
from  the  shoulder  of  her  fresh  white  blouse  to 
the  hem  of  her  scarlet  Bermuda  shorts,  Mary 
picked  herself  up  and  glared  at  him.  Says  Danny 
now,  "I  would  never  have  (Continued  on  page  74) 

Arthur  Godfrefs  Talent  Scouts,  CBS-TV,  Mon.,  8:30  P.M., 
is  sponsored  by  Thomas  J.  Lipton,  Inc.,  and  The  Toni  Co. 
Arthur  Godfrey  Time  is  heard  on  CBS  Radio,  M-F,  10  A.M. 
—seen  on  CBS-TV,  M-Th,  10:30  A.M.— under  multiple  spon- 
sorship. The  Ford  Road  Show  Starring  Arthur  Godfrey  is 
heard  on  CBS  Radio,  M-F,  at  5:05  P.M.  (All  times  are  EST) 


Lady  Luck 
Pitched  a  Curve 

But  Danny  Costello  still  scored  a  hit 

on  the  Godfrey  shows — because  of 
the  pretty  miss  who's  now  his  missus 


Talent  Scout  Jan  Davis  helped  Danny  hit  a  musical  homer  on  TV. 


Music  is  their  life,    but   baseball   is   still   their   love:    Ex-pitcher   Danny, 
softball  player  Mary,  and  their  lively  "bat  boys,"  Tommy  and  Danny,  Jr. 


Show-biz    friends:     Max     Kendriclc    (center), 
Paul   D'Amato  of  500  Club,  Atlantic  City. 


THE 


The  public  writes,  Perry  Como 
sings  a  heartfelt  reply  in 
his  album,  "We  Get  Letters." 
The  private  answer  to  a 
nation  s  affection  lies  here — 
in  candid  words  of  those  who 
know  Como  best,  offstage  .  .  . 

By  MARTIN  COHEN 


They  say  he  has  a  "special  magic"  for 
children.  This  little  miss  wouldn't  use 
such  big  words.  It's  really  very  simple: 
She  just  follows  her  heart — and  Como's. 


PIED  PIPER  OF  TV 


Pretty  "postmen"  Dolores  Erickson,  Pat  White,   Dori  Smith,  Aura  Vainio  deliver  mail  on  show's 
song-request   segment   (Perry   calls   it    "the  chairs-on-the-table  spot,"  for  reasons  of  his  own). 


Bags  of  letters  get  dragged  into  NBC   every  day. 
About  a  thousand  of  them  are  addressed  to  the 
guy  with  the  magic  eyes,  Perry  Como.   The  letters 
come  from  grandmas  in  Chicago,  teenagers  in  California, 
matrons  in  New  Orleans.     Men,  women  and  children 
write,  write,  write. 

"Look,  I  know  what  it  means  to  sit  down  and  write  a 
letter,"  Perry  says,  "and  every  one  I  get  makes  me  feel 
wonderful.  I  just  feel  bad  when  someone  comes  up  to 
me  and  maybe  says,  'I'm  the  lady  who  wrote  you  from 
Pensacola.  Do  you  remember  me?'  Well,  I  only  wish 
I  could  read  all  the  letters  and  remember  all  the  names." 
Perry  pauses,  rubs  his  upper  lip,  then  begins  to  smile. 
"I  had  a  letter  just  the  other  day  from  a  woman  in 
Youngstown,  Ohio.  She  remembered  the  old  times,  'way 


back  before  Ronnie  was  born.  Those  years  I  was  singing 
with  Frankie  Carlone's  dance  band  around  Ohio.  I 
think  her  letter  requested  me  to  sing  'Prisoner  of  Love,' 
then  she  added,  'Do  you  remember  you  danced  with 
me  one  night  twenty  years  ago?'  I  showed  it  to  my  wife 
Roselle.  We've  been  married  twenty-four  years.  I  said, 
'Honey,  where  were  you  when  I  was  dancing  with 
this  lady?'  " 

The  man  Como  is  of  average  height,  but  the  Como 
grin,  the  famous  shrug  and  the  dark  brown  eyes  are 
far  from  average.  The  eyes  speak  of  warmth  and  affec- 
tion, and  anyone  who  meets  the  guy  will  vouch  that  this 
is  for  real.  Dee  Belline,  Perry's  brother-in-law,  who 
has  been  with  Perry  about  eighteen  years  as  promotion 
manager,  says,  "Perry  can't  talk  to  man  or  child  with- 


Continued 


39 


THE 


PIED  PIPER  OF  T\ 


The  public  writes,  Perry  Como 
sings  a  heartfelt  reply  in 
his  album,  "We  Get  Letters." 
The  private  answer  to  a 
nation's  affection  lies  here —    | 
in  candid  words  of  those  who 
know  Como  best,  offstage  . . . 

By  MARTIN  COHEN 


tfWtRODAr 


Pretty  "postmen"  Dolores  Ericlcson,  Pat  White,  Dori  Smith,  Aura  Vainio  deliver  mail  on  show's 
song-request  segment  (Perry  calls   it   "the  chairs-on-the-table  spot,"  for  reasons  of  his  own]. 


They  say  he  has  a   "special  magic 
children.    This    little    miss    wouldnt 
such   big  words.    It's   really  ve'J  *L- 
She  just  follows  her  heart— and  <-° 


Bags   of  letters  get  dragged  into  NBC  every  day. 
About  a  thousand  of  them  are  addressed  to  the 
guy  with  the  magic  eyes,  Perry  Como.   The  letters 
come  from  grandmas  in  Chicago,  teenagers  in  California, 
matrons  in  New  Orleans.     Men,  women  and  children 
write,  write,  write. 

"Look,  I  know  what  it  means  to  sit  down  and  write  a 
letter,"  Perry  says,  "and  every  one  I  get  makes  me  feel 
wonderful.  I  just  feel  bad  when  someone  comes  up  to 
me  and  maybe  says,  'I'm  the  lady  who  wrote  you  from 
Pensacola.  Do  you  remember  me?'  Well,  I  only  wish 
I  could  read  all  the  letters  and  remember  all  the  names. 
Perry  pauses,  rubs  his  upper  lip,  then  begins  to  smile. 
"I  had  a  letter  just  the  other  day  from  a  woman  in 
Youngstown  Ohio.  She  remembered  the  old  times,  way 


back  before  Ronnie  was  born.  Those  years  I  was  singing 
with  Frankie  Carlone's  dance  band  around  Ohio.  I 
think  her  letter  requested  me  to  sing  'Prisoner  of  Love,' 
then  she  added,  'Do  you  remember  you  danced  with 
me  one  night  twenty  years  ago?'  I  showed  it  to  my  wife 
Roselle.  We've  been  married  twenty-four  years.  I  said, 
'Honey,  where  were  you  when  I  was  dancing  with 
this  lady?'  " 

The  man  Como  is  of  average  height,  but  the  Como 
grin,  the  famous  shrug  and  the  dark  brown  eyes  are 
far  from  average.  The  eyes  speak  of  warmth  and  affec- 
tion, and  anyone  who  meets  the  guy  will  vouch  that  this 
is  for  real.  Dee  Belline,  Perry's  brother-in-law,  who 
has  been  with  Perry  about  eighteen  years  as  promotion 
manager,  says,  "Perry  can't  talk  to  man  or  child  with- 

iomtlnmrd 


39 


Wm 


VMMfr:  THE  PIED  PIPER  OF  TV 


(Continued) 


Program  rehearsal:  Music  director  Mitchell  Ayres,  Perry, 
Billy  Rowland  at  piano.  Musicians  have  been  with  Como 
for  years — tribute  to  a  great  star's  even  temperament. 


Recording  session:  Como  strums  guitar,  Al  Caiola  plays 
banjo.  Joe  Reisman,  RCA  Victor  musical  director,  is  at 
right — Steve  Steck  of  the  Ray  Charles  Singers,  at  rear. 


out  putting  his  arm  over  the  guy's  shoulder  or  touching 
a  sleeve.  His  warmth  is  so  outgoing  that  someone  once 
advised  us  to  insulate  him.  from  outsiders.  Anyway, 
I  think  this  is  what  the  TV  audience  feels  and  says  in 
the  letters  they  write  to  him." 

The  letters  indicate  this  by  their  sentiments  and  the 
kind  of  songs  they  request.  An  admirer  from  Louisiana 
writes  hopefully  about  the  "revival  of  so  many  oldies" 
and  says,  "I  don't  feel  too  badly  asking  for  this  one, 
'When  the  Swallows  Come  Back  to  Capistrano.' "   From 


the  Bronx,  a  daughter  notes,  "Mother  and  Dad  will  be 
celebrating  their  golden  wedding  anniversary  and  this 
will  be  quite  an  occasion.  May  I  ask  for  a  great  favor? 
Will  you  please  sing  'Anniversary  Waltz'?"  And  from 
a  Texas  teenager,  "I  think  that  you  are  the  most  won- 
derful person  that  I  have  ever  seen.  You  are  the  only 
man  over  thirty-five  that  I  really  do  like.  My  favorite 
record  up  to  date  is  'Round  and  Round.'  I  also  like  Pat 
Boone  and  Tommy  Sands  but  you  top  them  all."  A 
mother  in  Altoona,  Pennsylvania,  writes,  "We  like  every - 


Perry  would  love  to  be  a  golf  "pro."  Oddly  enough,  the 
song  he  sings  on  the  course,  in  the  shower — anywhere — ■ 
is  one  he's  never  recorded:  "It  Could  Happen  to  You." 


After-game  discussion  in  club  house  at  Concord  Hotel: 
Perry  and  his  wife  Roselle  at  right,  Como's  brother-in- 
law   and    promotion    manager,    Dee    Belline,    at   far   left. 


Small  folk — whether  performers  or  "audience" — willingly  flock  around  their  Pied  Piper,  sensing  Perry's  love  for  children. 


thing  you  sing.  My  four-year-old  Ellen,  just  as  soon 
as  your  show  comes  on,  steps  up  to  the  TV  set  and 
kisses  you."  And  so  the  letters  and  requests  go.  Choral 
conductor  Ray  Charles,  speaking  about  the  song  re- 
quests, says,  "The  thing  that  never  stops  amazing  me 
are  the  letters  asking  for  old  songs.  And  what  further 
amazes  me  is  what  Perry  does  with  the  old  songs,  even 
the  most  hackneyed  ones.  There  are  numbers  I  wouldn't 
think  of  suggesting,  like  'Let  Me  Call  You  Sweetheart.' 
Perry  sings  it  and  he  sounds  great.  I  think  it's  his  pure 
sincerity." 

What  manner  of  man  is  this  Como?  A  guy  as  simple 
and  sweet  as  his  music?  Well,  let's  see.  When  Perry  is 
off  TV,  he  is  at  home  in  a  rambling  house  distinguished 
by  ten  quarts  of  milk  on  the  doorstep.  (Perry  explains, 
"Every  time  the  kids  take  a  forkful  of  food,  they  wash 
it  down  with  a  whole  glass  of  milk.")  The  house  is 
handsome,  with  swimming  pool.  It  is  located  in  the  very 
fashionable  and  wealthy  section  of  Long  Island  called 
Sands  Point,  but  that's  where  Perry's  resemblance  to  a 
millionaire  ends.  And  the  Como  way  of  life  is  by  choice 
— for  Perry  makes  a  million   (Continued  on  page  78) 

The  Perry  Como  Show,  NBC-TV,  Sat.,  at  8  P.M.  EST,  is  sponsored 
by  Kimberly-Clark,  Noxzema  Chemical  Co.,  Radio  Corporation  of 
America,  Whirlpool,  Sunbeam,  American  Dairy  Assn.,  Knomark. 


Modest  Perry  was  humble  but  deeply  touched,  receiving 
Harlem  Y.M.C.A.  "Royal  Salute"  award  from  chairman 
Alan    J.    Dingle    (left)    and    Dr.    W.    Kenneth    Williams. 


41 


Above,  housewife  Arlene  at  home  with  husband  Martin 
Gabel  and  their  son  Peter.  Beiow,  on  NBC-TV's  Arlene 
Francis  Show  with  announcer  Hugh  Downs  (standing). 


Housewives? 


"Too  much"  to  do?  Or  "too  little"? 
Arlene  Francis — who  enjoys  being  a 
housewife — has   an   inspiring  answer 

By  GLADYS  HALL 

Why  is  it  that  today's  housewives  don't  like  to 
be  called  "housewives"? 

Why — when  one  of  them  does  use  the  term — does 
she  almost  invariably  refer  to  herself  as  "just  a 
housewife"?    Why  that  belittling  "just"? 

Why  does  Mrs.  Average  American  Housewife  im- 
plicitly depreciate   herself — and   the  job   she   does? 

Is  she  ashamed  of  being  a  housewife? 

If  so,  WHY? 

^TJood  questions,  all.  Fascinating  questions.  And 
no  better  or  more  fascinating  person  to  an- 
swer them  than  Arlene  Francis — actress,  femcee, 
panelist,  head  of  her  own  daily  program  on 
NBC -TV — but,  most  importantly  in  her  own 
mind,  a  housewife.  Not  "just  a  housewife,"  but 
proud  of  being  one.  She's  learned  how  others  feel 
about  it,  though — both  the  humble  and  the  proud 
— from  her  three-and-a-half-year  tenure  on 
NBC-TV's  recent,  beloved  Home  show,  which 
brought  her  into  contact,  in  person  and  by  mail, 
with  countless  housewives  all  over  these  United 
States. 
First,  as  to  Arlene's   (Continued  on  page  72) 


Busy  TV  star  Arlene  has  help  for  apartment  in  town  but 
does  all  her  own  housework  at  real  home  in  the  country. 


42 


The  Arlene  Francis  Show  is  seen  over  NBC-TV,  M-F,  from  10 
to  10:30  A.M.,  under  multiple  sponsorship.  Arlene  is  also  a 
panelist  on  What's  My  Line?,  as  seen  on  CBS-TV,  Sun.,  10:30 
P.M.,  for  Helene  Curtis  and  Remington  Rand.  (All  times  EST) 


Though  time-savers  have  "freed  modern  woman  to  develop  other  talents,  too,  Arlene  loves  to  cook. 

Feeding  the  family  is  still  an  important  job,  but  she  can 
why  housewives  yearn  for  variety  of  occupations  "outsid 


see 

e." 


Gardening  is  one  of  many  "chores"  which  can 
lead  to  interesting  projects  beyond  home  itself. 


Say  music  decorates  the  entrance  to  "Graceland."  But  those 
iron  gates,  which  shut  the  curious  out,  also  shut  Elvis  in. 
Few  visitors  can  see  his  luxurious  new  home — except  by  plane. 


Guards  round-the-clock  must  turn  away  the  friendliest  of 
callers.  Elvis's  uncle,  Travis  Smith  (below),  may  sometimes 
take  pictures  for  fans — but  dares  not  let  them  in  the  grounds. 


Presley's  Fight 


Palace — or  prison?    A  revealing 
glimpse    into    the    home    where    Elvis 
hides  from  the  glare  of  publicity 

By  LILLA  ANDERSON 


As  befits  the  prince  of  teenagers,  Elvis  Presley, 
when    he    enters    his    recently    acquired 
lemphis  mansion?  walks  on  red  carpet  richer, 
deeper   and   more   luxurious   than   European 
royalty  ever  knew.     Splashes  of  gold  accent  his 
king-sized,  custom-made  furniture.   To  enhance 
the   enjoyment   of  his   leisure   hours,   there   is   a 
splendid   swimming  pool  and  a   magnificently 
equipped  recreation  room.     Beautiful  Hollywood 
starlets   and   aspiring,   handsome   young   actors 
are  numbered  among  his  many  house  guests.    Yet 
the  singer  who  was  known  for  his  neighborli- 
ness,  when  he  lived  in  a  low-rent  housing 
project,  today  complains  (Continued  on  page  70) 


Some  still  prefer  taking  their  own,  even  if  it's  only 
a  blurred  snap  over  the  top  of  the  stone  wall — jagged 
and  barb-wired  to  thwart  "raids"  of  souvenir-hunters. 


iWSiW;.',;'; 


HHRHHHHH 


■H 


Gay  music  decorates  the  entrance  to  "Graceland."  But  those 
iron  gates,  which  shut  the  curious  out,  also  shut  Elvis  in. 
Few  visitors  can  see  his  luxurious  new  home— except  by  plane. 


Guards  round-the-clock  must  turn  away  the  friendliest  of 
callers  Elvis's  uncle,  Travis  Smith  (below),  may  sometimes 
take  pictures  for  fans— but  dares  not  let  them  in  the  grounds. 


Presley's  Fighi 

Palace— or  prison?    A  revealing 
glimpse   into   the   home   where   Elvis 
hides  from  the  glare  of  publicity 

By  LILLA  ANDERSON 


As  befits  the  prince  of  teenagers,  Elvis  Presley, 
when   he    enters   his    recently    acquired 
L  lemphis  mansion?  walks  on  red  carpet  richer, 
deeper   and  more   luxurious   than   European 
royalty  ever  knew.     Splashes  of  gold  accent  his 
king-sized,  custom-made  furniture.   To  enhance 
the  enjoyment  of  his  leisure   hours,  there  is  a 
splendid  swimming  pool  and  a  magnificently 
equipped  recreation  room.     Beautiful  Hollywood 
starlets  and   aspiring,  handsome  young  actors 
are  numbered  among  his  many  house  guests.    Yet 
the  singer  who  was  known  for  his  neighborli- 
ness,  when  he  lived  in  a  low -rent  housing 
project,  today  complains  (Continued  on  page  70) 


only 
d 


Some  still   prefer  taking   their  own,   even 

a  blurred  snap  over  the  top  of  the  stone  wall— |ag9 

and  barb-wired  to  thwart  "raids"  of  souvenir-hur  '  ' 


for  a  Private  Life 


*"* 


YOU  ASKED  FOR  IT 


By  MAURINE  REMENIH 

The  things  you  ask  for!  It  might  be 
reasonable  to  assume  that  Art 
Baker,  popular  master  of  ceremonies 
for  the  ABC -TV  series,  You  Asked 
For  It,  acquired  his  magnificent  mane 
of  white  hair  just  trying  to  keep  up 
with  the  requests  the  fans  send  in.  It 
might  be— but  it  isn't.  That  snowy 
top  of  Baker's  has  been  his  trademark 
for  years,  since  he  turned  prematurely 
white-haired  more  than  a  decade  ago. 
There  are,  however,  some  signs  of 
silver  at  the  temples  for  the  show's 
producer,  Cran  Chamberlin.  And  here 
there's  no  doubt  that  the  mad  chase 
for  show  material,  over  the  past  six- 
to-seven  years,  has  been  a  contribut- 
ing factor.  Backstage  television  jobs 
are  notoriously  hectic,  but  one  of  the 
most  hectic  operations  of  them  all  is 
within  the  You  Asked  For  It  organ- 
ization. 

It  stands  to  reason.  Over  the  years, 
the  show  has  been  built  around  the 
requests  sent  in  by  thousands  of  View- 
ers. Viewers  are  people,  and  like  the 
comedian  said,  "People  are  funnier 
than  anybody!"  But,  even  though  the 
show  provides  its  originators  with  a 
few  hair-graying — even  a  few  hair- 
tearing  and  hair-raising — moments,  it 
also  furnishes  them  plenty  of  laughs. 
Chamberlin,  who  admits  to  dreaming 
up  the  idea  in  the  first  place,  claims  he 
created  a  "Frankenstein  monster."  He 
points  out  that  the  show,  which  he 
thought  would  have  a  life  expectancy 
of  several  years  at  best,  is  now  a  ripe 
old  veteran,  and  is  getting  stronger 
and    more     popular    as    the    months 

Continued 


Art  Baker  and  staff  will  go  anywhere,  do  anything,  for  their  viewers. 

But  honestly,  folks,  some  of  those  requests  should  never  have  been  made! 


46 


Above,  producer  Cran  Chamberlin  and  Art  Baker  re-live 
(although  they'd  rather  not)  a  comic  misadventure  from 
You  Asked  For  It.  Expert  really  performed  1 ,000  push- 
ups as  scheduled — but  script  and  camera  crossed  him  up. 


"Fuzzy"  (above  with  Art  and  trainer  Chester  Hayes)  was 
a  natural.  Animal  stunts  outnumber  all  other  requests, 
go  over  big — though  "more  fun  than  a  barrel  of  monkeys" 
proved  to  be  truer  for  staff  than  for  the  TV  audience. 


Acting  as  referee  for  boxing-kangaroo  "Bam"  and  trainer 
Floyd  Humeston  was  just  all  in  the  day's  work  for  Art. 
Emceeing  a  wrestling  match  between  man  and  alligator, 
however,  turned  out  to  be  a  frustrating  battle  of  wits. 


Lineman's  demonstration  of  new  method  of  resuscitation 
for  victims  of  electrical  shock  had  remarkably  dramatic 
repercussions.  At  least  two  lives  were  saved,  in  month 
following,  by  viewers  who  learned  how  from  the  program. 


47 


YOU  ASKED  FOR  IT 


Show's  cameras  range  far  afield  these  days,  both  here  and  abroad,  covering  as  many 
subjects  as  an  encyclopedia.  Through  cooperation  of  Cleveland's  Chief  Story  (above 
with  Art),  You  Asked  For  It  obtained  police  department  films  of  robbery  at  St.  Clare 
Savings  and  Loan  Company.  Bandit  subsequently  saw  films  on  TV — and  turned  himself  in! 


pile  up  into  years  of  filling  viewer  requests. 

Part  of  the  show's  increased  appeal  is  due  to 
the  fact  that  the  You  Asked  For  It  staff  have 
extended  their  boundaries.     Where   they   once 
covered   only   the   United    States,   with   an 
occasional  spot  from  abroad,  nowadays  the  whole 
world  is  their  beat.    And  Chamberlin,  for  one, 
is  now   anticipating   that  his   job   will   include 
international-size  headaches,  instead  of  purely 
local  problems. 

Those  local  problems  have  been  funny  enough, 
however,  to  last  most  producers  a  lifetime. 
One  of  Chamberlin's  favorites  came  off  several 
years  ago.     (Or,  to  be  completely  accurate,  it 
didn't  come  off.)     The  staff  had  been  receiving 
letters    at   intervals    from    various    viewers 
afflicted  with  nostalgia  for  the  "good  old  days" 
and  with  memories  of  the  Steel  Pier  in  Atlantic 
City.  Each  and  all  of  these  viewers  requested 
another  look  at  Cannonball  Richards,  a  hero 
in  his  day  who  had  been  one  of  the  attractions 
at  the  Pier.     In  his  act,  Richards  had  stood 
like  a  man  of  iron  while  a  cannonball  was  fired 
square  into  his  mid-section. 

Investigation  disclosed  that  Richards  was  now 
a  resioe^  of  Long  Beach,  California — just  a 
hop,  skip  and  jump  down  the  Freeway  from  the 
ABC -TV  Hollywood  studios,  where  the  show 
originates.    So  a  runner  was  dispatched  forth- 
with to  escort  Mr,  Richards  back  to  the  studio. 
The  stunt  was  set  up,  the  old  firing-piece  dusted 
off,  and  all  was  in  readiness  for  the  show. 

Examination    had   provied    that    Cannonball 
Richards  was  in  terrific  {Continued  on  page  82) 


Russian  bears  are  big  business  inside  the  U.S.S.R. — 
show  business,  that  is.  Program  journeyed  to  Moscow  to 
make  movies  of  ursine  stars,  performing  a  centuries-old 
art,  never  before  seen  on  this  side  of  the  Iron  Curtain. 


48 


Program  runs  gamut  from  eternal  tragedy 
to  transient  comedy.  Below:  Its  cameras 
take  viewers  to  Hiroshima,  Japan,  with 
eye-witness  commentary  by  Nobuko  Sakoda 
— who  was  nine  years  old  when  the  A-bomb 
fell  on  her  home  city.  Right:  In  far  less 
serious  vein,  Art  pits  his  skill  against 
that  of  a   highly-touted    "bowling    horse." 


You  Asked  For  It — and  Art  Baker  will  do  anything  to 
oblige.  Well,  almost  anything,  except  play  with  these 
cats!  Mixup  provided  two — one  famed  as  a  cowardly  lion, 
the  other  notorious  as  a  man-biter.  But  which  is  which? 


Ham  bur 


Hot! 


Ralpn — who's  acted  in  both  English  and  Spanish 
on  CBS  Radio — combines  favorite  foods  from  both 
sides  of  the  border,  in  Hamburgers  a  la  Camargo. 


Ralph  Camargo,  ivhose  forebears 
were  Mexican,  warms  up  a  traditional 
American  dish  and  serves  it  forth ! 


f  ucky  the  family  in  which  father  has  a  fine  hand 
with   the    cooking.      And    doubly   lucky    the 
family  in  which  father  not  only  knows  how  to 
grill  a  steak,  but  is  master  of  such  mysteries  as  a 
spicy  sauce  for  hamburgers,  a  meaty  chili,  a  specially 
varied  green  salad.  The  Ralph  Camargos,  who 
live   in   Connecticut,   happily   depend   on   father's 
kitchen  genius.    Ralph,  who  is  a  veteran  radio  actor, 
came  by  his   chefdom  naturally.     His   forebears 
were  Mexican,  and  the  California  Camargos — though 
three  generations  removed  from  their  .native  land — 
had  a  strong  feel  for  Mexican  cooking.  Ralph  learned 
the  secrets  of  the  spicy  Mexican  dishes  as  a  boy. 

Typical  of  Ralph's  "family  fiestas"  is  the  bi-lingual 
hamburger  dish  for  which  the  recipe  is  given 
opposite.  With  its  sauce,  Hamburgers  Camargo  are 
designed    to    warm    up    a    winter    menu    which 
includes  macaroni  and  cheese.     He  also  suggests  a 
tossed    salad    which    combines    lettuce,    romaine, 
endive,   tomatoes,   avocado,    cucumber,   radishes — or 
other  vegetables.  Top  off  this  hearty  winter  meal 
with  chocolate  angel-food  cake  a  la  mode,  with 
coffee  or  milk — and  you'll  have  "lived  it  up"! 

Mrs.    Camargo,   former   actress-model   Florence 
Skeels,   is    also    a   good    cook.     She   is    of   English- 
Danish   descent,   born   in   Butte,   Montana.     The 
Camargos  met  in  Seattle,  Washington,  when  both 
were   acting  in  radio   there.     Now   suburban   resi- 
dents, with  Ralph  commuting  from  Connecticut  to 
New  York  for  his  acting  commitments,  the  Camargos 
dine  "a  la  father"  about  once  a  week.  Mrs. 
Camargo  likes  her  "day  off" — and  the  hamburgers. 


Well-bred   Bedlington  that  he  is,   "Tassie"   finds  the   Mexican- 
American  aroma  of  his  master's  dish  tempting  beyond  all  barks. 


For  daughters  Vicky,    12,  and  Felice,   17,  a  taste  treat.  For  wife  Florence,  a  day  off  from   cooking. 


HAMBURGERS  A  LA  CAMARGO 

Place  in  a  large  bowl: 

3  pounds  lean  beef,  ground 
Toss  lightly  with  a  fork,  to  break  it  up.     Make  a 
slight  hollow  in  the  mass,  and  drop  in  the  following 
ingredients: 

2  eggs,  slightly  beaten 

dash  of  bottled  hot  sauce 
4  dashes  Worcestershire  sauce  or  steak   sauce 
1  teaspoon  salt 

freshly  ground  black  pepper,  to  taste 
1  teaspoon  celery  salt 
1  teaspoon  prepared  mustard 
%  teaspoon  garlic  powder 
%  teaspoon  onion  salt 
1  teaspoon  crumbled  oregano 
Mix  lightly  with  a  two-pronged  kitchen  fork.     Then 
put  2  thick  slices  of  cracked-wheat  bread  into  a  little 
warm   water.     Press   water   out   with   the   hands   and 
crumble  the  wet  bread  over  the  meat  mixture,  and  toss 
with  the  meat   until   blended.     Always   work   lightly. 
Shape  into  patties  as  large  and  thick  as  desired.    These 


can  be  cooked  on  a  hot,  slightly  greased  grill,  or  under 
a  broiler  or  over  charcoal.  To  get  the  charcoal  flavor 
when  cooking  indoors,  sprinkle  with  one  of  the  fine 
charcoal  seasonings  available  at  any  food  market.  Cook 
2  minutes  on  each  side  for  medium  and  4  minutes  for 
well-done  meat.     Serve  with  Salsa  Sauce. 

SALSA  SAUCE 

Makes  1  pint  of  sauce. 
Combine  in  a  quart  saucepan: 

1  cup  canned  green  chili  peppers 
1  (8  oz.)  can  tomato  sauce 
Unless  you  want  a  very  hot  sauce,  rinse  chili  peppers 
in  cold  water  and  cut  or  wash  away  all  seeds. 
Peel  and  dice: 

1  small  onion 
Cook  it  in  a  little  salad  oil  until  onion  is  transparent, 
then  add  it  to  the  chili  mixture.  Bring  to  the  simmering 
point,  cover  and  let  stand  until  it  is  served.  If  any  sauce 
is  left  over,  cool,  then  pour  into  a  jar  with  a  tight 
cover  and  store  it  in  the  refrigerator. 


On  CBS  Radio,  Ralph  Camargo  is  Max  Sebastian  in  Backstage  Wife,  M-F,  12:15  P.M.,  and  Barney  Stern  in  Road  Of  Life.  M-F,  1:45 
P.M.   He  is  frequently  heard  on  City  Hospital,  Sat.,  1:05  P.M.    (All  times  given  EST) 


51 


MutuaVs  great  weekly  line-up  of  ivell-documented  adventure  proves 
crime  truly  doesn' t  pay — except  for  such  top  "impersonators"  as  these 


That  mystery  and  adventure  ap- 
peal to  thinkers,  as  well  as  doers, 
is  proved  by  MutuaTs  exciting 
across-the-board  series  on  weekday 
evenings — True  Detective  Mysteries, 
Treasury  Agent,  Gang  Busters,  Se- 
crets Of  Scotland  Yard,  Counterspy 
— at  least  three  of  which  are  con- 
sistently among  the  top  ten  once-a- 
week  programs  "most  listened  to"  in 
America! 

There's  the  ever-present  thrill  of 
the  chase,  of  course.  But  beyond  that 
is  the  excitement  of  actuality:  These 
crimes  happened.  These  criminals 
were  caught.  (The  Scotland  Yard 
series,  produced  in  England  by 
Harry  Alan  Tower,  is  based  on 
classic  cases  chosen  by  famed  British 
reporter  Percy  Hoskins.) 

It's  a  combination  which  guaran- 
tees both  entertainment  and  public 
service.  Over  the  years,  True  De- 
tective Mysteries  —  in  cooperation 
with  the  magazine  for  which  it  is 
named — has  helped  capture  scores 
of  fugitives,  paid  out  tens  of  thou- 
sands of  dollars  to  listeners  and 
readers,  through  its  special  "Line- 
up" feature. 

Stories  dramatized  on  this  pro- 
gram are  drawn  from  cases  already 
marked  "closed."  Emphasis  is  on 
the  reasons  for  man's  misbehavior, 
rather  than  his  misdeeds  (only  four 
shots  have  been  fired  in  some  1,000 
broadcasts).  "Dostoyevsky's  'Crime 
and  Punishment,'  "  says  scholarly, 
Manhattan-born  writer-director  Pe- 
ter Irving,  "had  the  answers  to  all 
modern-day  criminal  problems. 
True  Detective  proves  that  crime  still 
starts  with  the  character  of  the 
individual." 

Fidelity  to  realism  demands  the 
best  of  acting,  and  Mutual's  justly 
proud  of  its  performers.  Executive 
producer  Warren  Wade  (who  took 
over  the  reins  of  the  Phillips  Lord 
creations  —  Treasury  Agent,  Gang 
Busters,  Counterspy — after  the  un- 
timely  death   of  Leonard  Bass  last 


LARRY  HAINES 


June)  is  himself  a  former  actor. 
Born  in  Akron,  Ohio,  he  began  as  a 
"juvenile"  under  Broadway's  great 
Belasco,  became  a  pioneer  in  both 
radio  and  TV. 

At  NBC,  Wade  did  the  first  ex- 
perimental telecasts,  the  first  TV 
dramas,  mobile-unit  and  90-minute 
shows.  At  WOR-TV,  he  originated 
the  concept  of  "multi-weekly  pres- 
entation" now  seen  nationally  in 
Million  Dollar  Movie.  A  colonel  in 
the  Signal  Corps,  he  put  together 
the  Army's  first  TV  unit.  He  knows 
broadcasting  techniques — and  what 
good  acting  means. 

Such  acting  is  the  trademark  of 
Larry  Haines,  alias  Joe  Lincoln  of 
Treasury  Agent — and  a  mainstay  of 
mystery-adventure  on  all  networks. 
Born  in  Mount  Vernon,  N.  Y.,  he 
met  his  wife  Trudy  during  school 
days  there,  and  they  now  live  in  a 
split-level  house  at  Westport,  Conn., 
where  Larry  has  become  quite  a 
gardener  in  rare  leisure  hours. 

An  actor  ever  since  leaving  Yonkers 
College  to  do  stock  with  the  West- 
chester Players,  Larry's  busy  day- 
times on  TV  as  Stu  Bergman  in  Search 


JERI  ARCHER 


For  Tomorrow,  on  radio  as  Lew 
Archer  in  The  Second  Mrs.  Burton. 
He  likes  the  challenge  of  radio — "be- 
cause it  leaves  so  much  to  the  imagi- 
nation of  the  listener,  demands  so 
much  from  that  of  the  actor." 

Jeri  Archer,  born  in  Newark,  bred 
in  Summit,  N.  J.,  started  acting  with 
local  groups  and  radio  stations  in 
high  school.  Her  career  got  into  full 
swing  when  a  role  was  specially 
created  for  her,  as  Mitzi  Green's 
sidekick  in  "Million  Dollar  Baby." 
She's  done  a  number  of  Broadway 
plays  since,  hopes  to  do  others. 

At  11,  Jeri  was  already  producing 
playlets  with  rich  character  parts  for 
herself.  Today,  she's  still  fond  of 
radio  because  its  versatility  (plus 
her  own)  permits  her  to  play  every- 
thing from  crusty  spinsters  to  glam- 
orous spies.   "At  Mutual,"   says  the 


52 


I 


1 


&A 


Warren  Wade  (whose  imposing  hat  is  equally  famous  behind  the  scenes  of  both 
radio  and  TV)  gives  on-mike  direction  to  three  ace  performers:  Don  MacLaughlin, 
star  of  Counterspy;  Jeri  Archer,  featured  on  many  a  Mutual  mystery-adventure, 
including  Gang  Busters;  Larry  Haines,  who's  heard  as  star  of  Treasury  Agent. 


tall  redhead,  "my  specialty  seems  to 
be  the  Jekyll-and-Hyde  woman — 
the  smooth,  dignified  swindler  who 
is  really  an  evil  witch  at  heart!" 

Don  MacLaughlin  has  not  only 
been  David  Harding  in  Counterspy 
from  that  series'  first  days,  back  in 
1942,  but  also  Dr.  Jim  Brent  on 
radio's  .Road  Of  Lije  and,  more  re- 
cently, Chris  Hughes  on  TV's  As 
The  World  Turns.  Don  takes  special 
delight  in  Counterspy:  "What  aver- 
age family  man  can  carry  a  gun, 
surround  a  house  and  round  up 
criminals?" 

Very  much  a  family  man  today,  at 
home  as  well  as  in  daytime  drama, 
Don  was  born  in  Webster,  Iowa,  and 
was  educated  all  over  the  country — 
winding  up  with  graduate  work  at 
Arizona  U.  He  got  his  radio  and 
dramatic  starts  in  Tucson,  but  found 


his  bride,  Mary,  in  New  York.  Now- 
adays, they  make  their  home  with 
their  three  teenagers  in  a  small  Ver- 
mont town. 

Son  of  an  orchestra  leader  and  a 
"Ziegfeld  Follies"  beauty,  William 
Redfield  was  born  to  show  business, 
in  New  York.  Billy  spent  his  early 
years  in  Washington,  D.C.,  wanted 
to  be  a  ballplayer — till  he  returned 
to  Broadway  to  make  his  stage  debut 
at  9.  Radio,  TV,  stage  and  screen 
have  claimed  him  ever  since,  except 
for  an  18-month  hitch  In  the  Army. 

Billy  met  his  wife,  Betsy,  while 
doing  a  play  with  her  sister,  Julia 
Meade.  They  were  wed  last  March, 
expect  their  first-born  next  January. 
"The  girls  are  Yankee  fans,"  he 
grins,  "but  I've  been  converting  them 
to  the  Dodgers."  Baby's  bound  to  be 
either  a  ballplayer  or  a  grandstand 


DON  MacLAUGHLIN 


Continued 


53 


The  Voi< 


(Continued) 


WILLIAM  REDFIELD 


goddess — unless  show-biz  proves  too 
strong  for  the  third  generation,  too. 
Manhattan-born  Ethel  Everett's 
family  was  dead-set  against  her  be- 
coming an  actress,  wanted  her  to  be 
a  teacher  ("I  still  have  the  certificate 
in  a  bottom  drawer  somewhere"). 
Ethel  became  active  in  dramatics 
while  attending  Hunter  College,  got 
her  first  chance  at  Broadway  when 
her  play  group  won  a  competition. 
The  stage  proved  less  lucrative  than 
radio  and  TV,  where  she  has  been 
much  in  demand  for  some  years  now. 


ETHEL  EVERETT 


Her  roles,  she  says,  seem  to  fall 
into  two  categories:  Sane  or  insane. 
Ethel's  been  both  psychiatrist  and 
patient,  both  murderess  and  victim. 
"I'm  the  perfect  audience  for  a  mys- 
tery show,"  she  twinkles.  "I  can 
never  guess  beforehand  who-done-it 
— even  when  it  turns  out  I  did  it!" 

Peter  Irving  has  called  Robert 
Haag  "one  of  the  finest  narrators  I 
ever  worked  with."  Long  familiar 
in  daytime  serials,  Bob  likes  working 
with  documentary  material,  instead 
of  fiction, on  T.D.M.— "the  first  'real' 


ROBERT  HAAG 


LAWSON  ZERBE 


54 


role  I've  ever  had,"  he  says  in  the 
voice  that  goes  with  being  almost 
6-feet-4.  "There's  a  certain  satis- 
faction in  doing  public  service." 

Bob,  in  fact,  started  out  to  study 
law,  before  little-theater  work 
changed  his  plans.  Born  in  Cullom, 
111.,  he  attended  high  school  in 
Springfield,  Mass.,  got  his  first  radio 
experience  at  WBZA.  Today,  he 
commutes  between  New  York  and 
Wilbraham,  near  Springfield,  and 
agriculture  is  his  avocation.  "When 
you  come  from  a  farm,"  he  says, 
"you  never  really  get  away  from  it." 
•  Birthplace  for  Lawson  Zerbe  was 
Portland,  Oregon,  but  he  grew  up  in 
Dayton,  Ohio,  where  he  attended  the 
Cooperative  High  School  and  later 
had  a  scholarship  at  the  Dayton  Art 
Institute.  With  only  vague  ideas  of 
becoming    an   artist,    Lawson    spent 


Peter  Irving  puts  a  stellar  cast  through  the  paces  of  True  Detective  Mysteries: 
Left  to  right — announcer  Dan  McCullough,  top  radio  cop  Bill  Zuckert  (standing), 
T.D.M.  narrator  Robert  Haag,  actress  Ethel  Everett,  actor  William   Redfield. 


much  more  of  his  time  tinkering 
with  cars — and  organizing  his  own 
stock  company,  which  actually  got 
paid  for  playing  at  local  clubhouses. 

Lawson  got  some  mike  experience 
in  Dayton,  landed  his  first  real  "pro" 
job  at  WLW  in  Cincinnati,  eventu- 
ally headed  for  New  York.  Radio 
there  welcomed  him  from  the  start 
— his  first  big  network  assignment 
was  a  top  crime  show — and  he's  been 
in  -great  demand  ever  since,  for  roles 
requiring  high  emotional  tension. 

Bronx-born  Bill  Zuckert  went 
through  local  public  schools — "but 
not  very  far."  He  quit  to  run  an 
elevator,  passed  a  Civil  Service 
exam,    moved    to    Washington    and 


found  himself  in  the  Office  of  In- 
dian Affairs — where  he  stayed  long 
enough  to  acquire  permanent  status. 
("If  the  acting  business  ever  goes 
bad  on  me,  I  can  always  go  back  to 
the  Indians.  It  was  interesting!") 

But  Bill  counted  up  and  discov- 
ered he'd  done  50  or  60  community - 
service  shows  on  the  networks  for 
free,  in  his  spare  time.  He  headed 
back  for  New  York,  to  make  a  living 
at  acting — and  has  scarcely  missed  a 
well-paid  week  on  the  air  since. 
True  to  his  Government  background, 
he  is  nearly  always  cast  on  the  side 
of  the  law — but  he  has  also  played 
Dillinger  for  Gang  Busters'  re- 
enactments    of    that    crime    classic. 


All  heard  over  Mutual,  from  8:05  to  8:30  P.M.  EST:  Mon.,  True  Detective  Mysteries;  Tues., 
Treasury  Agent;  Wed.,  Gang  Busters;  Thurs.,  Secrets  Of  Scotland  Yard;  Fri.,  Counterspy. 


BILL  ZUCKERT 


55 


T 


The  Voic< 


of 


WILLIAM  REDFIELD 


goddess — unless  show-biz  proves  too 
strong  for  the  third  generation,  too. 
Manhattan-bom  Ethel  Everett's 
family  was  dead-set  against  her  be- 
coming an  actress,  wanted  her  to  be 
a  teacher  ("I  still  have  the  certificate 
in  a  bottom  drawer  somewhere"). 
Ethel  became  active  in  dramatics 
while  attending  Hunter  College,  got 
her  first  chance  at  Broadway  when 
her  play  group  won  a  competition. 
The  stage  proved  less  lucrative  than 
radio  and  TV,  where  she  has  been 
much  in  demand  for  some  years  now. 


ETHEL  EVERETT 


Her  roles,  she  says,  seem  to  fall 
into  two  categories:  Sane  or  insane. 
Ethel's  been  both  psychiatrist  and 
patient,  both  murderess  and  victim. 
"I'm  the  perfect  audience  for  a  mys- 
tery show,"  she  twinkles.  "I  can 
never  guess  beforehand  who-done-it 
— even  when  it  turns  out  I  did  it!" 

Peter  Irving  has  called  Robert 
Haag  "one  of  the  finest  narrators  I 
ever  worked  with."  Long  familiar 
in  daytime  serials,  Bob  likes  working 
with  documentary  material,  instead 
of  fiction, on  T.D.M. — "the  first  'real' 


ROBERT  HAAG 


LAWSON  ZERBE 


54 


role  I've  ever  had,"  he  says  in  the 
voice  that  goes  with  being  almost 
6-feet-4.  "There's  a  certain  satis- 
faction in  doing  public  service." 

Bob,  in  fact,  started  out  to  study 
law,  before  little-theater  work 
changed  his  plans.  Born  in  Cullom, 
111.,  he  attended  high  school  in 
Springfield,  Mass.,  got  his  first  radio 
experience  at  WBZA.  Today,  he 
commutes  between  New  York  and 
Wilbraham,  near  Springfield,  and 
agriculture  is  his  avocation.  "When 
you  come  from  a  farm,"  he  says, 
"you  never  really  get  away  from  it 
•  Birthplace  for  Lawson  Zerbe  was 
Portland,  Oregon,  but  he  grew  up  m 
Dayton,  Ohio,  where  he  attended  the 
Cooperative  High  School  and  later 
had  a  scholarship  at  the  Dayton  Art 
Institute.  With  only  vague  ideas  ol 
becoming   an   artist,   Lawson   spew 


Peter  Irving  puts  a  stellar  cast  through  the  paces  of  True  Detective  Mysteries: 

Lettto  right— announcer  Dan  McCullough,  top  radio  cop  Bill  Zuclcert  (standing), 

■U.M .  narrator  Robert  Haag,  actress  Ethel  Everett,  actor  William   Redfield. 


much  more  of  his  time  tinkering 
with  cars— and  organizing  his  own 
stock  company,  which  actually  got 
Paid  for  playing  at  local  clubhouses. 

Lawson  got  some  mike  experience 
;n  Dayton,  landed  his  first  real  "pro" 
Job  at  WLW  in  Cincinnati,  eventu- 
al headed  for  New  York.  Radio 
were  welcomed  him  from  the  start 
first  big  network   assignment 

as  a  top  crime  show— and  he's  been 

•great  demand  ever  since,  for  roles 
squiring  high  emotional  tension. 

Bronx-born     Bill    Zuckert    went 

"rough   local   public   schools— "but 
not  very  far  „    He  qu.t  to  run  an 

*vator,    passed    a    Civil    Service 
am-   moved    to    Washington    and 


found  himself  in  the  Office  of  In- 
dian Affairs — where  he  stayed  long 
enough  to  acquire  permanent  status. 
("If  the  acting  business  ever  goes 
bad  on  me,  I  can  always  go  back  to 
the  Indians.  It  was  interesting!") 

But  Bill  counted  up  and  discov- 
ered he'd  done  50  or  60  community- 
service  shows  on  the  networks  for 
free,  in  his  spare  time.  He  headed 
back  for  New  York,  to  make  a  living 
at  acting — and  has  scarcely  missed  a 
well-paid  week  on  the  air  since. 
True  to  his  Government  background, 
he  is  nearly  always  cast  on  the  side 
of  the  law — but  he  has  also  played 
Dillinger  for  Gang  Busters'  re- 
enactments    of    that    crime    classic. 


BILL  ZUCKERT 


I  heard  over  Mutual,  from  8:05  to  8:30  P.M.  EST:  Mon.,  True  Detective  Mysteries;  Tues., 
eas"ry  Agent;  Wed.,  Gang  Busters;  Thurs.,  Secrets  Of  Scotland  Yard;  Fri.,  Counterspy. 


55 


ecmaf^ 


Unlike  Joan  of  One  Man's  Family, 

Mary  Lou  Harrington  has  found  just  the  right  man, 

just  the  kind  of  marriage  Father  Barbour  would  approve 


By  DORA  ALBERT 


It's  an  old-fashioned  romance,  an 
old-fashioned  marriage.  But  they 
met  on  a  blind  date — Mary  Lou 
Harrington,  the  brown-eyed,  dark- 
haired  Joan  of  One  Man's  Family, 
and  Joe  Dialon,  to  whom  she  has 
been  married  for  the  two  happiest 
years  of  her  life.  One  of  Mary  Lou's 
closest  girl  friends,  Marilyn  Wroe, 
whom  she  has  known  ever  since  they 
were  in  the  sixth  grade  together, 
was  giving  a  Hallowe'en  party.  For 
a  whole  year,  Marilyn  had  been 
worrying  about  Mary  Lou's  lack  of  a 
serious  romance.  Ever  since  Mary 
Lou,  who  had  dated  one  boy  steadily 
for  more  than  four  years,  had  broken 
off  with  him  by  mutual  consent. 
(They  had  found  themselves  drifting 
steadily  farther  and  farther  apart. 
Though  he  was  six  months  older 
than  Mary  Lou,  she  was  more  mature 
than  he  in  many  ways — and  both  of 
them  realized,  possibly  with  regret, 
that  they  weren't  really  right  for  each 
other.)  (Continued  on  page  83) 


Looking  at  husband  Joe  Dialon,  holding 
baby  Alan,  Mary  Lou  is  glad  she  wasn't 
too  old-fashioned  about  "blind  dates"! 


56 


Professional  touch:  Joe — ace  cameraman  for  George 
Putnam's  news  show  over  Station  KTTV — records  his 
greatest  scoops  in  home  movies  of  wife  and  child. 


Amateur  disaster:  Joe's  luck  has  been  bad,  when  it  comes  to  home 
gardening.  His  do-it-yourself  weed  killer  stopped  growth  of  all  the 
nice  green  grass,  too.  Mary  Lou  has  more  faith  in  their  ability  to 
raise  happy  children,  hopes  to  have  others,  just  as  lively  as  Alan. 


Mary  Lou  Harrington  is  Father  Barbour's  granddaughter,  Joan,  in  the  be- 
loved serial  drama,  One  Man's  Family,  created  by  Carlton  E.  Morse  and  now 
heard  afternoons  on  NBC  Radio,  Monday  tlvoiis* ..Friday,  2:30  P.M.  EST. 


•im*»m<+ ' "  »'■"" 


# 


'*n 


> 


:*• 


■ 


^^ 


By  FRANCES  KISH 


58 


Nothing  that  could  happen  to  Patrick  O'Neal  as  Dick 
Starrett,  in  Sheldon  Reynolds'  new  Dick  And  The 
Duchess  series  on  CBS-TV,  could  be  more  roman- 
tic and  adventurous  than  Patrick's  own  experiences  of 
the  past  year  or  so.  To  begin,  there  was  the  sheer  luck 
by  which  he  happened  to  be  on  the  spot  to  be  chosen 
for  Dick — instead  of  three  thousand  miles  away  in  Cali- 
fornia. It  had  been  Cynthia's  idea  to  come  to  New  York 
to  see  the  New  Year  in  ...  so  there  he  was,  in  the  right 
place  at  just  the  right  time. 

There   is   Cynthia   herself   and   the   romantic   way    in 
which  they  met.     They  had  the  same  agent,  who  kept 


trying  to  bring  them  together  ("Cynthia  is  a  fine  girl" — 
"Patrick  is  a  fine  fellow")  .  .  .  but,  until  she  saw  Patrick 
on  a  television  screen,  Cynthia  hadn't  shown  much 
interest  in  the  proposed  meeting. 

There  was  their  almost  impossible  plan  to  be  married 
on  the  eve  of  his  leaving  for  Europe  last  January  to 
make  the  pilot  film  for  Dick  And  The  Duchess  ...  a  mar- 
riage in  which  literally  a  dozen  people  helped,  many  of 
them  perfect  strangers  to  both.  And  their  idyllic  two- 
month  honeymoon  in  Europe,  after  the  film  was  shot  in 
London  and  Paris  .  .  .  except  that  they  almost  got  lost 
in  a  blizzard  driving  over  a    (Continued  on  page  68) 


What  a  year  for  Patrick  O'Neal! 
Love,  marriage,  stardom  in  the  new 
series,  Dick  And  The  Duchess — 
all  within  just  the  past  few  months 


European  honeymoon  was  the  icing  on  their  wedding  cake.  River 
Thames  looked  peaceful  indeed,  from  Westminster  Bridge,  after 
that  hectic  ceremony  in   New  York  and  hasty  flight  to  England. 


Transatlantic  phone  keeps  them  close  to  America,  even  while  in 
London.  Evenings,  on  the  quiet  balcony  of  their  Knightsbridge 
home,  Cynthia  cues  Patrick  for  next  day's  Dick  And  The  Duchess. 


Sentry  outside  Buckingham  Palace  may  be  more 
imposing — despite  Patrick's  noble  "guardsman 
stance" — but  Cynthia  staunchly  believes  her 
bridegroom  will  always  be  best  man  anywhere! 


Patrick  O'Neal  co-stars  with  Hazel  Court  in  the 
title  roles  of  Dick  And  The  Duchess,  as  seen  over 
CBS-TV,  each  Saturday,  from  8:30  to  9  P.M.  EST, 
sponsored  'jv  Helene  Curtis  and  Mogen  P  -id  Wines. 


59 


Actress  Haila  Stoddard  has  time  for  everything  that  matters. 


Haila  Stoddard  makes  every  minute  count — 
including  those  she  devotes  to  beauty 

By  HARRIET  SEGMAN 


Haila  Stoddard,  of  television  and  theater,  has  time 
by  the  tail.  Sample  day:  She  deposits  her  husband  at 
the  7:12  A.M.  train  at  Briarcliff,  New  York,  returns 
home  to  pack  her  son  off  to  school,  complete  with  lunch, 
drives  off  at  ten  for  her  11:15  CBS-TV  rehearsal, 
rehearses  from  after  the  show  until  5:45  for  the  next 
day,  reaches  the  theater  at  eight  for  a  leading  dramatic 
role — and,  all  the  time,  remains  on  tap  to  fill  in,  if  needed, 
on  ten  minutes'  notice,  for  Rosalind  Russell  in  "Auntie 
Mame."    If  she's  not  in  a  play,  Haila  and  husband  Whit- 
field Connor  spend  the  evening  at  work  as  a  writing 
team.  Then  they  drive  home  to  Briarcliff.  Obviously, 
all  this  takes   organization   and   self-discipline.     "I 
just  don't  have  time  to  be  (Continued  on  page  69) 


Busy  Haila  acts  on  TV's  Secret  Storm  (above), 
and  is  Roz  Russell's  standby  in  "Auntie  Mame." 


Sunday  at  home,  and  husband  Whitfield 
Connor  helps  in  decorating  experiment. 


More    weekend    domesticity:    Daughter    Robin 
and   Whit  help   Haila   prepare  special   dinner. 


60 


[Getting  to  Know  Him 
(Continued   from  page  25) 
"We'd     known     each     other     for     three 
years,"  says  Patti,  "but  we'd  never  really 
spent    twenty-four   hours    a   day   together 
before.    We'd  never  had  time." 
Now,    at    last,    they    had    it.     Six    long 
weeks    together,   with   no    separations,    no 
pressure  of  work,  no  public  appearances. 
Six   weeks  when  they   could  be  just  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  O'Curran,  American  tourists. 

They  had  planned  their  honeymoon  for 
months,  even  before  they  were  married 
last  December  in  Las  Vegas.  They  had 
talked  for  hours,  over  the  telephone  wires 
from  Los  Angeles  to  New  York,  about 
where  they  would  go,  what  they  wanted 
to  see.  Charlie,  who  had  been  abroad 
three  times  before,  would  be  the  guide, 
but  Patti  had  some  very  definite  ideas. 
"I  wanted  to  see  the  Tower  of  London 
and  the  changing  of  the  guard  at  Buck- 
ingham Palace,"  she  says,  "and  all  the 
things  I'd  been  reading  and  hearing  about 
for  years.  Paris,  of  course,  and  Rome. 
"Friends  we  met  in  England  thought  we 
I  were  crazy,  but  we  didn't  care." 

The  sailing  was  gay  and  fun,  as  a 
honeymoon  sailing  should  be.  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  O'Curran's  suite  on  the  lie  de  France 
was  jammed  with  friends.  Stewards 
rushed  in  and  out  with  champagne  and 
baskets  of  fruit  and  flowers.  Everyone 
chattered  away  like  mad.  Charlie  who 
loves  people  and  talk,  was  here,  there,  and 
everywhere. 

The  "All -ashore"  signal  sounded  at  last 
and  Patti  and  Charlie  looked  at  each  other 
over  the  luggage  and  the  flowers  and  the 
empty  glasses.  Then  suddenly  she  was  in 
his  arms.    The  honeymoon  had  begun. 

The  He  de  France  is  a  luxury  liner  in 
the  best  French  tradition.  The  carpets  are 
thick  and  soft,  the  furnishings  exquisite, 
the  service  perfect,  the  food  divine.  And 
Patti  and  Charlie  had  nothing  to  do  but 
enjoy  it.  Breakfast  in  bed,  with  the 
freshly  baked  croissants  they  were  to  get 
to  know  so  well  ...  a  stroll  around  the 
,  deck  .  .  .  shuffleboard  .  .  .  dancing  .  .  .  the 
nights  when,  hand  in  hand,  they  watched 
the  shine  of  the  moon  on  the  water,  looked 
up  at  the  stars,  bigger  than  Patti  had  ever 
seen  them  before. 

It  didn't  take  long  for  the  word  to  get 
around  that  one  of  America's  most  popular 
singers  and  her  husband  were  on  board. 
Invitations  to  parties  began  arriving,  and 
Patti  was  asked  to  sing. 

They  debarked  at  Plymouth,  late  in  the 

I   afternoon,  and  took  a  car,  instead   of  the 

I  boat   train,   to   London.    "We   thought   we 

were    being   pretty    bright,"    Patti    laughs, 

"but  the  boat  train  got  in  at  10:30  P.M.  and 

it  was  half -past  one  in  the  morning  before 

we  made  it.   And  there  were  fans,  I  heard 

later,  waiting  at  the  station  in  London  for 

I  me."     Thoughtful    always,    Patti    disliked 

the   idea  of  disappointing  the   young  folk 

who  had  gathered  to  see  her. 

It  was   on   the   road  from   Plymouth   to 

London    that   Patti   got   her   first   taste   of 

I  England's  non-iced   drinks.    Thirsty,   they 

j  had  decided  to  stop  at  one  of  the  quaint 

I  old   pubs  which  dot  the  highway. 

"Our  drinks  were  lukewarm,  but  we  saw 

5  a  refrigerator  just  back  of  the  bar  so  we 

thought  we  could  safely  ask  for  ice,"  says 

Patti.     "But    when    we    did,    the    barmaid 

hustled  out  to  the  kitchen  and  came  back 

with    two    ice    cubes,    one    of    which    she 

dropped   carefully   into    each   glass."     She 

I  giggled.    "It  wasn't  very  cold  ice,  either." 

London  in  July  was  London  in  the  rain. 

^  And    while    the    drinks    were    warm,    the 

weather  was  cold.    Patti,  who  had  packed 

I  only  summer  clothes — "I  didn't  even  take 

|  a  suit" — scurried  out   and  bought   a   coat. 

Between    showers,    and    in    them,    too, 


-* : 


NEW! 


mmmm 


:^'Wv->'-': 


Star  _ 

valluiuS 


We've     added     some     brand 
now  $tar»  and  brand  new  pic- 

Checit  the  list  beiow  for  your 

i^jhi  for  harr>irtq.  Send  ycur 
order  today. 


BARGAIN  PRICE 

?2  pictures  for  $1j  6  for  50* 


CANDIDS 


1.  Lana  Turner 

2.  Betty  Grable 

3.  Ava  Gardner 

5 .  Alan  Ladd 

6.  Tyrone  Power 

7.  Gregory  Peck 
9.  Esther  Williams 

11.  Elizabeth  Taylor 

14.  Cornel  Wilde 

15.  Frank  Sinatra 

18.  Rory  Calhoun 

19.  Peter  Lawford 

2 1 .  Bob  Mitchum 

22.  Burt  Lancaster 

23.  Bing  Crosby 
25.  Dale  Evans 
27.  June  Allyson 

33.  Gene  Autry 

34.  Roy  Rogers 

35.  Sunset  Carson 

50.  Diana  Lynn 

5 1 .  Doris  Day 

52.  Montgomery  Clift 

53.  Richard  Widmark 

56.  Perry  Come 

57.  Bill  Holden 

66.  Gordon  MacRae 

67.  Ann  Blyth 

68.  Jeanne  Crain 

69.  Jane  Russell 
74.  John  Wayne 
78.  Audie  Murphy 
84.  Janet  Leigh 
86.  Farley  Granger 

91.  John  Derek 

92.  Guy  Madison 
94.  Mario  Lanza 
103.  Scott  Brady 

105.  Vic  Damone 

106.  Shelley  Winters 

107.  Richard  Todd 


109.  Dean  Martin 

110.  Jerry  Lewis 
112.  Susan  Hay  ward 
117.  Terry  Moore 
121.  Tony  Curtis 
124.  Gail  Davis 

127.  Piper  Laurie 

128.  Debbie  Reynolds 

135.  Jeff  Chandler 

136.  Rock  Hudson 

137.  Stewart  Granger 

139.  Debra  Paget 

140.  Dale  Robertson 

141.  Marilyn  Monroe 

142.  Leslie  Caron 

143.  Pier  Angeli 

144.  Mitzi  Gaynor 

145.  Marlon  Brando 

146.  Aldo  Ray 

147.  Tab  Hunter 

148.  Robert  Wagner 

149.  Russ  Tamblyn 

150.  Jeff  Hunter 
152.  Marge  and  Gow- 

er  Champion 

174.  Rita  Gam 

175.  Charlton  Heston 

1 76.  Steve  Cochran 

177.  Richard  Burton 

179.  Julius  La  Rosa 

180.  Lucille  Ball 
182.  Jack   Webb 
185.  Richard  Egan 
187.  Jeff  Richards 

190.  Pat  Crowley 

191.  Robert  Taylor 

192.  Jean  Simmons 
194.  Audrey  Hepburn 
198.  Gale  Storm 
202.  George  Nader 


205.  Ann  Sothern 
207.  Eddie  Fisher 
209.  Liberace 

211.  Bob  Francis 

212.  Grace  Kelly 

213.  James  Dean 

214.  Sheree  North 

215.  Kim  Novak 

216.  Richard  Davalos 

218.  Eva  Marie  Saint 

219.  Natalie  Wood 

220.  Dewey  Martin 

221.  Joan  Collins 

222.  Jayne  Mansfield 

223.  Sol  Mineo 

224.  Shirlev  Jones 

225.  Elvis  Presley 

226.  Victoria  Shaw 

227.  Tony  Perkins 

228.  Clint  Walker 

229.  Pat  Boone 

230.  Paul  Newman 

231.  Don  Murray 

232.  Don  Cherry 

233.  Pat  Wayne 

234.  Carroll  Baker 

235.  Anita  Ekberg 

236.  Corey  Allen 


237.  Dana  Wynter 

239.  Judy  Busch 

240.  Patti  Page 

241.  Lawrence  Welk 

242.  Alice  Loo 

243.  Larry  Dean 

244.  Buddy   Merrill 

245.  Hugh  ©'Brian 

246.  Jim  Arness 

247.  Sanford  Clark 

248.  Vera  Miles 

249.  John  Saxon 

250.  Dean  Stockwell 

251.  Diane  Jergens 

252.  Warren  Ber linger 

253.  James  Mac  Arthur 

254.  Nick  Adams 

255.  John  Kerr 

256.  Harry  Belafonte 

257.  Jim  Lowe 

258.  Luana  Patten 

259.  Dennis  Hopper 

260.  Tom  Tryon 

261.  Tommy  Sands 

262.  Will  Hutchins 

263.  James  Darren 

264.  Ricky  Nelson 


FILL    IN    AND    MAIL 
COUPON  TODAY! 


WORLD  WIDE,  DEPT.WG-12 
112   Main  St.,  Ossining,   N.  Y. 

I  enclose  $ for   candid 

pictures  of  my  favorite  stars  and  have  circled 
the  numbers  of  the  ones  you  are  to  send  me 
by  return  mail. 

Name 

Street 

City 

Zone State J 

Fill  out  and  mail  coupon  today.    Send  cash         r 
or  money  order.  12  pictures  for  $1 ;  6  for  50c. 
(No  orders  less  than  50  cents.) 

61 


62 


Charlie  made  sure  that  Patti  saw  London. 
The  Tower  of  London  .  .  .  Buckingham 
Palace  .  .  .  the  changing  of  the  guard  .  .  . 
Westminster  Abbey  .  .  .  Soho  .  .  .  Madame 
Tussaud's  Waxworks  .  .  .  The  House  of 
Parliament  with  Big  Ben  on  its  top  .  .  . 
everything   Patti   had   wanted    to    see. 

And  they  took  pictures.  "Charlie,"  Patti 
says,  "turned  out  to  be  an  inveterate 
picture-taker,  once  we'd  visited  a  camera 
shop  in  London  and  learned  how  to  op- 
erate the  Rolleiflex  camera  loaned  to  us  by 
David  Workman,  a  New  York  photog- 
rapher." Patti  was  photographed  feeding 
the  pigeons  in  Trafalgar  Square,  in  front 
of  Buckingham  Palace,  and  at  Windsor 
Castle,  to  which  they  made  their  one  jaunt 
outside  of  London  proper. 

One  evening  they  went  to  the  theater, 
where  they  saw  Laurence  Olivier  and  his 
wife  Vivien  Leigh  in  "Titus  Andronicus." 
"It  was  the  first  Shakespearean  play  I'd 
ever  seen,"  Patti  says  candidly.  The  play 
— and  the  theater — were  all  Patti  had 
dreamed  of:  The  stalls,  which  turned  out 
to  be  just  orchestra  seats  .  .  .  the  tea 
brought  to  their  seats  between  acts  .  .  . 
the  7:30  curtain,  with  time  for  a  late 
dinner   afterwards. 

They  met  old  friends — the  Les  Browns, 
Bob  Hope,  Eddie  Albert — and  made  new 
ones.  And  they  laughed,  curled  up  to- 
gether in  a  big  chair  in  the  living-room  of 
their  suite,  over  some  of  the  strange  Eng- 
lish expressions.  "I  lost  two  stone  last 
year,"  a  new  acquaintance  told  Patti.  And 
the  Oklahoma-born  singer  never  got  up 
the  courage  to  ask  her  how  much  a  "stone" 
was.    (Editor's  Note:  It's  fourteen  pounds.) 

They  saw  their  first  British  television. 
Their  suite  at  the  Savoy  had  been  oc- 
cupied, just  before  their  arrival,  by  "an 
ambassador  or  something"  for  whom  a  TV 
set  had  been  installed.  By  wheedling, 
palm-greasing,  and  just  plain  refusing  to 
let  anyone  take  it  out,  they  kept  the  set. 

"It  was  great,"  says  Patti.  "A  finer 
screen  than  ours,  which  made  for  a 
wonderful   picture." 

While  Charlie  and  Patti  had  been  dash- 
ing around  like  typical  tourists,  sightseeing 
days  and  dining  with  friends  evenings,  the 
British  press  had  been  bombarding  them 
with  requests  for  interviews.  "They 
couldn't  believe  that  we'd  come  over  just 
for  fun,"  Patti  says.  But  eventually  she 
gave  in  and  for  a  week  the  O'Curran 
honeymoon  became  one  press-interview 
after  another. 

"One  of  the  things  every  reporter  asked 
me  was  why  my  voice  was  higher  on  tele- 
vision (Patti's  filmed  series  is  shown  in 
England)  than  it  is  in  real  life.  Then  one 
day  I  went  down  to  the  studio  to  have 
some  pictures  taken  in  front  of  the  screen 
on  which  one  of  my  films  was  being  shown. 

"  'That's  too  fast,'  I  told  Charlie.  'They're 
playing  it  too  fast.'  And  sure  enough,  we 
discovered  that  they  ran  twenty-five 
frames  to  the  second,  while  here  we  run 
twenty-four.  Just  that  little  difference  in 
speed  made  my  voice  sound  higher." 

Despite  the  rain  and  the  cold,  "England 
was  a  fairyland."  The  city  of  London, 
with  its  narrow,  winding  streets,  its  quaint 
shops,  its  huge  lumbering  buses  .  .  .  the 
tiny  English  cars  sputtering  along  on  the 
left  side  of  the  street  .  .  .  the  luxury  of  the 
Savoy,  where  "the  service  was  exquisite, 
but  I  can't  say  as  much  for  the  food. 
In  the  morning,  tea  was  brought  to  our 
room,  but  it's  hard  to  get  tea  after  lunch 
or  dinner,  the  way  we  can  here.  The 
English  serve  it  at  breakfast  and  at  tea 
time;  say  it's  too  much  work  to  make  it 
other  times. 

"The  gay  night-life  was  wonderful.  Sum- 
mer is  London's  big  social  season.  We  had 
supper  at  Ziggy's,  where  show  people 
gather.    Once  we  saw  Princess  Margaret's 


lady-in-waiting  dancing  in  a  London  club. 
It  was  exciting,   all   of  it." 

All   this — and   being   together,   too. 

Patti  fingers  the  broad  gold  band,  her 
eyes  glowing.  She's  a  different  Patti 
these  days — softer,  prettier,  and  with  a 
shine  of  happiness  that  she  makes  no  effort 
to  hide.  The  gold  band,  she  explains,  is 
not  the  ring  Charlie  slipped  on  her  finger 
last  December.  Thai  one  is  platinum,  set 
with  five  huge  pear-shaped  diamonds,  and 
too  dazzling  for  everyday  wear.  Patti  keeps 
it  carefully  in  its  velvet  case,  taking  it  out 
only  for  special  occasions.  For  regular 
days,  she  wears  the  flexible  gold  band 
made  of  links  to  match  her  watch  bracelet. 

It  was  raining  when  Patti  and  Charlie 
left  London. 

"Take  the  boat  train  to  Paris,"  friends 
had  advised,  "and  be  sure  to  get  up  when 
you  get  beyond  Dover,  so  you  can  see  the 
white  cliffs." 

The  boat  train,  Patti  explained,  runs 
from  London  to  Dover,  where  the  cars  are 
switched  directly  onto  the  ferry  to  cross 
the  English  Channel,  so  the  occupants  can 
stay  in  their  berths  all  the  way  to  Paris. 

"We  got  up,"  Patti  says,  "but  we  couldn't 
see  a  thing.  We  didn't  find  out  till  we  got 
home  that  we  should  have  dressed  and 
gone  out  to  the  observation  car." 

x  aris,  when  they  arrived,  was  gray  and 
lovely  in  the  rain.  It  rained  .  .  .  and 
rained,  and  rained,  while  Charlie  hauled 
an  increasingly  reluctant  Patti  out  to  see 
everything.  The  Eiffel  Tower  .  .  .  Notre 
Dame  .  .  .  the  Arch  of  Triumph  .  .  .  the 
Louvre,  of  course. 

Their  headquarters  was  a  suite  at  the 
Prince  de  Galles,  a  luxury  hotel  just  off  the 
Champs  Elysees,  and  around  the  corner 
from  the  salon  of  Christian  Dior.  They 
laughed  together  over  the  huge  bathtub, 
above  which  hung  a  cord  "so  you  could 
call  a  maid  if  you  wanted  your  back 
scrubbed."  And  they  kept  the  door  of  the 
suite  firmly  locked  against  the  servants 
who,  European  style,  come  and  go  with 
scarcely  a  knock  to  announce  their  en- 
trance. 

They  breakfasted,  invariably,  in  their 
suite.  But  breakfast  became  so  late,  and 
the  lunches  were  so  huge,  that  Patti  found 
herself  falling  asleep  immediately  after- 
ward. So  they  hit  upon  a  pattern — coffee 
when  they  woke,  breakfast  later,  and 
nothing  more  until  dinner.  And  a  late 
dinner  at  that,  in  one  of  the  famous  Paris 
restaurants — Maxim's,  the  Tour  d'Argent 
(where  Charlie  sampled  the  famous 
pressed  duck),  the  Monseigneur,  where  a 
bevy  of  violinists  surrounded  their  table, 
serenading  them  in  the  candlelight. 

In  New  York,  Patti  loves  to  shop.  Given 
a  free  afternoon,  she  heads  for  Fifth 
Avenue  like  a  homing  pigeon.  But  in 
Paris,  Patti  bought  little;  some  perfume, 
gloves,  beaded  bags.  She  slipped  around 
the  corner  one  afternoon  without  Charlie 
and  visited  Dior's  boutique,  where  ex- 
quisite blouses,  scarves,  gloves  and  other 
such  frou-frou  were  on  display.  But  the 
Patti  Page  you're  seeing  on  The  Big  Record 
is  dressed  in  American  gowns. 

With  the  French  language,  Patti  had 
little  difficulty.  She  just  let  Charlie  handle 
the  conversations,  nodding,  smiling,  and 
adding  a  "merci  beaucoup"  or  a  "bonjour, 
madame,"  now   and   then. 

"Charlie's  theory  is  to  talk  fast,  whether 
he  says  anything  or  not,"  Patti  laughs. 
And  it's  easy  to  see  that  getting  to  know 
her  husband  was  more  fun  for  her  than 
munching  French  hot   dogs   in  the   Eiffel 


January  TV  Radio  Mirror 
on  sale  December  5 


Tower,  with  all  of  Paris  at  her  feet. 

"He  started  talking  as  soon  as  he  saw 
anyone  coming,  and  he  kept  it  up  until 
after  they'd  left.  He  was  'bon  jour-ing'  and 
's'il   vous    plait-ing'    all    over    the    place." 

The  days  in  Paris  were  rainy,  but  after 
their  sightseeing  jaunts  there  were  the 
glamorous  nights,  with  visits  to  night  spots 
in  the  Montmartre,  Montparnasse,  and 
the  swanker  clubs  in  the  Champs  Elysees 
section.  They  by-passed  the  Folies  Ber- 
gere;  saw  the  floor  show  at  the  Lido  in- 
stead. "But  no  pretty  girls,"  adds  Patti. 
"Nowhere  did  Charlie  see  a  pretty  girl." 
It  hadn't  occurred  to  her,  obviously,  that 
Charlie  had  eyes  for  no  one  but  the  girl 
at  his  side. 

From  Paris  it  was  only  a  short  flight  to 
Switzerland,  with  Zurich,  Lucerne  and 
Interlaken  entrancing  them  both.  "I  loved 
Switzerland,"  says  Patti,  her  eyes  a  little 
dreamy  as  she  thinks  back  on  the  quaint, 
picture-postcard  villages  and  the  mag- 
nificent view  of  the  Jungfrau  from  their 
hotel  windows. 

In  Zurich  ("Where  you  can  just  pick  up 
the  phone  and  dial  anyone  anywhere  in 
the  world"),  Patti  went  a  little  mad  over 
the  food.  Before  she  left,  she  added  a 
Swiss  cookbook  to  her  fist  of  purchases. 
It's  in  English,  but  she  hasn't  had  time  yet 
to  discover  whether  the  recipes  live  up  to 
the  cooking  in  the  Hermitage. 

"They  served  a  veal  dish  that  was 
divine,"  says  Patti.  "Three  strips  of  veal, 
cut  very  narrow,  with  a  sort  of  white  sauce 
over  them,  and  served  with  rice,  or 
noodles,  or  those  potatoes  they  call  rosti." 

It  was  in  Zurich  that  Charlie  was  always 
making  jokes  with  the  cab  drivers,  Patti 
says.  "He  told  one  that  I  wanted  to  go 
somewhere  to  hear  Scandinavian  folk 
music,  and  the  driver,  very  seriously,  said, 
'Is  it  imperative?'  " 

But  there  was  rain  in  Switzerland,  too. 
Patti  and  Charlie  began  to  feel  that  they'd 
been  born  with  wet  feet  and  sodden  rain- 
coats. Should  they  go  on  to  Rome  and  the 
south  of  France,  as  they  had  planned, 
hoping  to  find  the  sun?  Or  should  they 
spend  the  last  two  weeks  of  their  honey- 
moon in  a  spot  where  they  knew  there 
would  be  sunshine? 

It  didn't  take  them  long  to  decide.  Back 
to  Paris,  onto  a  plane.  Almost  before  they 
had  a  chance  to  dry  out  they  were  in  Palm 
Springs,  California,  where  they  luxuriated 
in  the  heat  and  the  sun  for  two  all-too- 
short  weeks. 

The  Nick  Castles  were  their  hosts  there 
and,  as  Patti  watched  her  husband  playing 
about  the  pool  with  the  two  Castle  chil- 
dren, she  learned  something  more  about 
him:  Charlie,  the  bon  vivant,  the  gay 
man-about-town,  was  only  the  shell  of  the 
real  Charlie. 

"I  used  to  be  afraid  to  say  I  didn't  want 
to  go  out  at  night,"  she  confesses  now, 
"but  we  haven't  been  out  once  since  we 
got  home.  I've  discovered  that  Charlie  is 
happy  as  a  clam  just  sitting  home  eve- 
nings." 

That's  what  they're  doing  now,  when 
they  can  be  together.  The  honeymoon,  un- 
happily, is  over,  and  once  more  they  must 
be  separated  for  long  periods  of  time. 

Patti  is  kept  in  New  York  by  her  weekly 
television  show  while  Charlie  has  com- 
mitments in  Hollywood. 

"He  has  the  Presley  picture  to  do  before 
Elvis  goes  into  the  Army,"  Patti  explains. 
"That  will  be  finished  before  Christmas. 
Then  he'd  like  to  do  a  Broadway  play." 

Meanwhile,  as  the  phone  bills  mount 
because  of  their  constant  cross-country 
calls,  Patti's  been  searching  for  a  larger 
apartment.  One  big  enough  for  two — or 
more.  And  hugging  to  her  the  memory  of 
her  honeymoon  and  the  husband  it  helped 
her  to  really  know  and  love. 


hi 
I 

id 
Id 
a 

-.']■■ 
a 

: 

m 

1 

■a 

in 
til 


> 


•i:: 
for 
Bn 

Sffl 


Ti 


A: 

\ 
■i< 
? 

nal 
»1» 
H 

thai 
-' 
bus 

.-- 

; 

U 

•',},! 

V 


That  Sentimental  Softie:  Frank  Sinatra 


(Continued  from  page  30) 
I  get    one     started     and     see    it     through." 
Opinion  in  Hollywood   is  divided   as  to 
1  whether  this  is  the  wise  way — or  the  time. 
Whether — what  with  his  many  movies,  his 
Capitol    records,    his    night-club    appear- 
ances,   and    all    the    rest — Frank    Sinatra 
•  should  be  spreading  himself  thinner  with 
I  weekly  television.    Whether  he  isn't  gam- 
bling his  popularity  at  the  box-office. 

Typical  of  this  all-or-nothing-at-all  star 
(and  of  his  fabulous  career  founded  on 
j  challenge),  Frank  has  gone  in  swinging, 
[  with  the  highest-budget  half-hour  in  tele- 
vision— plus  spectaculars — at  a  time  when 
such  giants  as  Sid  Caesar  and  Jackie 
Gleason  and  many  a  top  show  have  been 
toppled  by  over-exposure  in  the  hungry 
medium  of  TV. 

Sinatra's  ace  production  staff  believe 
that  his  versatility  is  the  answer  .  .  .  that 
this  rules  out  any  danger  of  over-expo- 
sure. As  producer  William  Self  says,  "We 
feel  the  variety  nature  of  the  show  will 
lick  that — and  Frank  can  handle  anything. 
I  don't  know  of  any  finer  actor  or  singer 
today  than  Sinatra."  Scripter  Bill  Mor- 
row confidently  puts  it  this  way:  "If  TV's 
knocked  out  the  giants,  they'll  need  a 
strong  personality.  Television  will  need 
some  more  giants — can  use  a  Sinatra." 
Varying  his  shows  in  much  the  same 
way  Frank  successfully  switches  tempos 
in  his  Capitol  Records  albums  today,  he 
will  star  in  thirteen  musical  half-hour 
shows  and  thirteen  dramatic  shows  this 
season.  He'll  host  ten  dramatic  shows,  and 
he  will  do  another  one-hour  spectacular 
in  addition  to  the  premiere.  He  plans  us- 
ing top  names  in  the  musicals,  and  will 
also  feature  each  of  his  children  on  one 
show. 

Seventeen-year-old  Nancy  and  two  girl 
friends,  Jane  Ross  and  Binnie  Burrell  (a 
very  talented  young  coloratura  who's  aim- 
ing for  a  career  in  light  opera),  have  a 
trio  called  "The  Tri-Tones."  They've  been 
singing  together  since  junior  high,  per- 
forming at  the  Veterans  Hospital,  the 
Brentwood  Country  Club,  and  special  as- 
semblies at  University  High.  "On  one 
show,"  said  Bill  Morrow,  just  before  the 
premiere,  "Frank  will  sing  with  Nancy — 
and  Nelson  Riddle  will  make  an  arrange- 
ment for  a  four-part  song  for  Frank  and 
the  trio. 

"Frank  Junior's  a  fine  pianist,"  Bill  con- 
tinued. "He  plays  classical  music — but 
he'll  probably  step  down  a  little  bit  for 
our  show  and  accompany  his  dad  on  some- 
thing in  the  pop  field,"  he  adds  with  a  grin. 
"Tina?  I  think  we'll  probably  use  Tina 
on  one  of  the  live  hour  spectaculars.  She'll 
do  something  with  her  dad — maybe  Frank 
will  put  on  the  ballet  shoes  and  dance 
with  her." 

They  planned  a  "month's  shooting"  for 
all  thirteen  half-hour  musicals.  How  could 
they  do  it?  "I  don't  know,"  Bill  admitted. 
"And  I've  never  seen  it  done — but  then, 
Frank  already  has  some  'firsts'  to  his 
credit." 

Frank's  "first"  and  his  whole  phenome- 
nal career  are  the  result  of  "his  over- 
whelming talent,"  as  conductor-arranger 
Nelson  Riddle  observes.  "Talent  will  out— 
that's  an  old  saying — but  only  if  it's  in  a 
sufficient  quantity.  Frank's  is  a  block- 
buster, not  only  in  music  but  in  all  the 
arts.  His  ability  as  an  actor  carries  over 
in  phrasing  and  interpretation.  Frank  has 
that  sympathy  for  the  written  word, 
whether  it's  said  or  sung." 

Versatility.  Excitement.  Magnetism.  Mu- 
sic. .  .  .  They're  all  an  important  part  of 
the  Sinatra  story.  But  there's  another 
compelling  ally  in  Frank's  corner  now. 
Sinatra  himself,  today.    The  fire   and  the 


heart  and  the  music  of  him,  all  pulling 
together.  He's  a  one-man  Marine  Corps 
in  show  business,  striking  in  all  direc- 
tions— but  with  only  one  objective. 

Recently,  a  friend  asked  Frank  how  he 
was  accomplishing  so  much  today.  Frank's 
personal  explanation  was:  "I'm  doing 
things  one  at  a  time.  You  know  how  I 
used  to  be — trying  to  do  a  lot  of  things 
at  one  time.  I  used  to  get  so  many  things 
on  my  mind,  and  I'd  get  so  confused  I 
couldn't  get  anything  done.  Now  I'm  tak- 
ing first  things .  first,  and  I'm  not  trying 
the  next  thing  until  the  first  thing's  done. 
Man,  I'm  getting  a  whole  lot  more  ac- 
complished!" The  friend  laughed.  Sina- 
tra is  doing  just  about  everything  at  once 
today.  But,  importantly,  Frank's  is  no 
longer  a  divided  heart  and  energy. 

Songwriters  eulogized  Sinatra's  inter- 
pretation of  lyrics  from  the  beginning, 
saying,  "He  sings  every  song  like  it's  part 
of  him."  And  they  were  right.  Every 
song  was.  The  two  meteors — the  music 
and  the  man — were  Siamese  twins.  The 
same  emotional  intensity  which  made 
headlines  also  early  foretold  the  finest  of 
actors,  and  still  shades  a  lyric  until  it 
cries  the  story.  "I  aim  to  be  a  story- 
teller," Frank  said,  the  first  time  we  met 
him.  "Music  is  a  backdrop  for  a  poem. 
The  lyric's  the  thing." 

Today,  he  himself  tells  a  happier  story — 
with  one  ending.  He's  no  longer  pulling 
against  himself,  his  ambitions,  his  loves 
and  his  angers.  He  has  two  loves,  his 
children  and  his  career.  His  goal — which 
is  also  for  them — is  one  and  the  same. 
Today,  nobody  can  stop  him.  But,  even 
when  pulling  against  himself  and  losing 
power,  Sinatra — son  of  an  Italian  fireman, 
born  on  a  Jersey  waterfront — rose  to  fame 
such  as  the  world  seldom  sees. 

Those  who  seem  bent  on  analyzing 
Frank  Sinatra  so  clinically  today  are  like 
people  who  arrive  at  a  movie  in  the  mid- 
dle of  the  picture — and  immediately  be- 
come authorities  on  the  whole  plot.  You 
want  to  tell  them,  "Wait  and  see  the  be- 
ginning of  the  picture,  before  you're  so 
sure  what  the  middle's  about — and  where 
it  will  all  end." 

Fundamentally,  of  course,  Sinatra  hasn't 
really  changed  since  the  day  he  arrived  in 
Hollywood — except  in  his  objectives.  He 
was  a  true  talent  from  the  beginning. 
When  Harry  James  found  Frank  singing 
at  the  Rustic  Cabin  in  New  Jersey  for 
twenty-five  dollars  a  week,  he  was  im- 
pressed by  "his  way  of  talking  a  lyric — 
the  feeling — the  way  he  made  the  story 
come  through."  .  .  .  Connie  Haines,  who 
was  James'  vocalist  when  Frank  joined 
the  band,  remembers  the  first  date  he 
played  with  them — in  Baltimore,  Mary- 
land. "Frank  wasn't  billed.  The  fans 
didn't  even  know  his  name.  But  they  were 
standing  at  the  stage  door,  yelling  for 
him."  ...  Jo  Stafford,  a  "Pied  Piper" 
when  Sinatra  joined  Tommy  Dorsey's  or- 
chestra, wasn't  impressed  that  first  day 
he  walked  on  the  theater  stage — "but,  by 
the  time  Frank  had  finished  singing  eight 
bars,  I  thought,  This  is  the  greatest  sound 
I  ever  heard!  He  had  a  tremendous  sound. 
But  he  had  more  than  that  .  .  .  just  call 
it  talent." 

He  was  bom  exercising  his  American 
prerogative  for  freedom  of  belief  and 
speech.  Success  in  no  way  ever  inspired 
this  trait  of  Frank's.  Challenge  and  con- 
troversy— in  whatever  proportion — never 
slowed  him.  From  the  beginning,  he  was 
on  his  feet  when  he  felt  justification,  even 
before  the  bell  rang.  And  you  often  ad- 
mired him — because  he  so  often  said  what 
you  would  like  to  say  and  didn't  dare — 
at  a  time  when  he  shouldn't  have  dared, 
either. 


According  to  musicians  and  friends,  this 
was  always  true,  too.  Although  Tommy 
Dorsey's  band  was  the  top  spot  for  a 
vocalist,  Frank  didn't  hesitate  to  take  a 
walk  into  the  unknown  .  .  .  that,  typically, 
proved  a  turning  point  to  fame.  There 
was  a  large  hassle  subsequently  over  Dor- 
sey's fat  percentage  and  Frank  "buying 
himself  back"  from  him — but  the  kick-off 
was  also  typical,  though  little-known.  It 
was  the  last  day  of  the  band's  engagement 
in  Indianapolis  and  Dorsey  was  kidding 
around  with  his  trombone  behind  Frank's 
number  while  he  was  singing.  He'd  done 
this  many  times  before — and  Frank  had 
laughed.  But  finally  it  was  too  much  .  .  . 
and,  besides,  Frank's  father  was  in  the 
audience. 

"I've  had  enough,"  Sinatra  said.  Three 
words  which  were  to  prove  the  turning 
point,  more  than  once,  in  Frank's  life  and 
career  .  .  .  and  no  general  could  ever  say 
them  more  decisively.  From  the  begin- 
ning in  Hollywood,  with  just  one  foot  in- 
side the  sound-stage  door  on  a  movie 
lot,  he  would  protest  where  established 
stars  didn't  dare  .  .  .  when  he  felt  justi- 
fied. He  just  wouldn't  report  to  the  set. 
Frank  would  take  on  a  top  executive,  in 
whom  he  felt  authority  had  been  con- 
siderably misplaced,  without  so  much  as 
a  blink  of  his  big  blue  eyes. 

His  confidence  was  always  exceeded 
only  by  his  talent,  but  Sinatra  made  a 
career  of  building  others'  egos,  too,  and 
giving  them  breaks  that  changed  their 
whole  futures.  Stories  are  legion  of  his 
generosities  in  giving  others  a  chance  in 
the  sun.  Many  have  been  mentioned. 
Skitch  Henderson,  a  fine  pianist,  was  just 
out  of  the  Army,  looking  for  a  future, 
when  Frank  starred  him  on  his  radio 
show.  "I  like  to  see  people  light  up," 
Frank  used  to  say. 

He  was  the  first  pop  singer  to  sing  in 
the  Hollywood  Bowl  .  .  .  and  he  was  in  no 
way  discouraged  by  the  longhairs  who 
frankly  questioned  the  wisdom  of  Frank 
Sinatra's  replacing  opera-concert  star 
Gladys  Swarthout,  who  couldn't  appear. 
Despite  the  fact  that  the  Bowl  was  oper- 
ating at  a  financial  loss  and  needed  a 
Sinatra,  some  symphonies  then  were 
afraid  the  hallowed  surroundings  would 
never  be  the  same. 

He  really  had  them  hanging  from  the 
Milky  Way  that  night.  Every  celeb  in 
Hollywood  who  had  a  daughter  was  there 
(including  Bing  Crosby,  who  hadn't). 
The  fans  were  screaming,  "Sing  to  me, 
Frankie."  Right  in  the  middle  of  "Old 
Man  River,"  a  battery  of  photographers 
yelled,  "Smile,  Frankie,  smile."  And  Con- 
stantin  Bakaleinikoff,  who'd  just  preceeded 
him  on  the  program,  conducting  "The  Nut- 
cracker Suite,"  was  a  genially  bewildered 
fellow.  He  kept  saying,  "Not  even  the 
Russian   Revolution — even — " 

Yes,  from  the  beginning  ...  up  and 
down  and  up  the  ladder  .  .  .  Frank 
Sinatra's  had  quite  a  few  "firsts." 

Frank  has  termed  the  year  1951  the 
darkest  for  him  professionally.  "I  couldn't 
get  anywhere  with  my  career  or  any- 
thing." He  will  be  ever  grateful  for  the 
boost  Bob  Hope  gave  him  at  that  time. 
"Bob  gave  me  a  spot  to  do  in  one  of  his 
TV  shows — this  was  early  in  the  one- 
hour  TV  show.  All  the  industry  was 
watching  to  see  whether  I  could  get  off 
the  canvas  and  come  around  again.  And 
Bob  set  me  up  so  beautifully  on  the 
show  .  .  .  arranged  for  me  to  have  all  the 
laughs."  t 

It  was  "Maggio"  who  put  him  back  into 
the  big  money,  however.    And,   typically,    " 
this    was    Frank's    gamble    .    .    .    and    his 
victory.    He  was   five-hundred  miles   into 

63 


the  interior  of  Africa,  discouraged,  and 
relatively  broke — billed  by  the  govern- 
ment for  around  $108,000  back  income  tax 
— and  no  good  offers  to  alleviate  it.  He 
was  torn  between  his  second  marriage 
and  his  career,  flying  around  the  world 
like  Captain  Jet,  trying  to  keep  night- 
club dates  and  rejoin  wife  Ava  Gardner 
on  foreign  locations.  Show  business  said 
Sinatra  was  virtually  on  his  way  out.  The 
old  magic  no  longer  seemed  to  have  them 
in  his  spell.  The  Hoboken  Kid  was  going 
down  for  the  count. 

But  the  Hoboken  Kid  was  just  getting 
his  second  wind.  He'd  had  his  heart  set 
on  the  role  of  Maggio  in  "From  Here  to 
Eternity"  before  Columbia  Pictures  even 
bought  the  book.  Frank  felt  he  knew 
the  tough-talking,  wisecracking,  warm- 
hearted Italian  as  well  as  his  own  skin. 
He  went  in  swinging  for  it  personally— 
"I  didn't  even  send  my  agent."  He  talked 
to  producer  Buddy  Adler  "and  anyone 
else  who  would  listen  to  me."  Production 
was  a  long  way  off,  but  Frank  wanted  to 
get  his  licks  in  there  first. 

He  watched — and  read  items — and 
waited  .  .  .  while  others  were  signed  for 
the  picture.  Finally,  thousands  of  miles 
away  in  Africa,  a  disheartened  Frank  got 
the  good  news  that  the  studio  was  making 
tests  and  would  test  him  if  he  wanted  to 
come  back — at  his  own  expense.  His  own 
gamble. 

Within  thirty-six  hours,  Frank  was 
in  Hollywood.  Producer  Buddy  Adler 
handed  him  the  test  scene — the  drunk 
scene — and  Frank  took  one  look  at  it  and 
handed  it  back.  "I  don't  need  this,"  he 
said.  He  already  knew  it.  Later,  the 
producer  admitted  his  feeling  at  the  time 
was:  "Well — that's  what  you  think.  We'll 
see  about  that."  But,  as  he  added,  "I 
didn't  feel  he  had  a  Chinaman's  chance, 
anyway,  so  I  just  said,  'Well — okay.' " 
Frank  was  the  last  to  test,  and  late  in  the 
afternoon,  Buddy  Adler  got  a  call  from 
the  director,  Fred  Zinnemann,  saying, 
"You'd  better  come  down  to  the  set. 
You're  going  to  see  something  unbeliev- 
able." 

When  the  word  spread  about  his  per- 
formance in  "From  Here  to  Eternity," 
Frank  had  the  world  on  a  string  again. 
But — paradoxically — by  then,  his  second 
marriage  had  failed,  too,  and  he  seemed 
too  disheartened  to  care.  Film  and  televi- 
sion offers  were  pouring  in.  He'd  turned 
down    "Waterfront"    because    he    had    so 


many  previous  commitments — "it's  just 
cutting  the  time  too  close."  There  wasn't 
enough  of  him  to  go  around  for  all  the 
mediums   wanting  him. 

"I'm  beat,"  he  told  us  one  night  at  a 
television  rehearsal.  "I'm  doing  three 
radio  shows  a  week  for  NBC,  I've  been 
recording  two  nights,  and  I'm  rehearsing 
here  all  day — "  He  said  it  all  like  a  man 
just  repeating  words.  No  spark.  No  big 
victory.  Too  drained  of  all  emotion  to 
care.  He  didn't  go  along  with  all  the 
talk  that  he  was  sure  to  get  an  Academy 
Award.  "Oh,  no— I'm  not  looking  for  any 
Oscar.  It's  just  because  it's  offbeat  for 
me — you'll  see."  He  only  brightened  once 
.  .  .  when  he  said  his  daughter  Nancy  had 
seen  the  picture — "and  she  loved  it  .  .  . 
their  mother  took  all  of  the  children  to 
see  it." 

By  the  time  of  the  Oscars,  however,  it 
was  a  different  Frank,  a  jubilant  Frank, 
who  went  to  the  Awards  dinner,  flanked 
by  Nancy,  Jr.  and  Frank,  Jr.  .  .  .  and 
gripping  in  his  hand  the  medallion  the 
children  had  given  him.  with  his  guardian 
angel  on  one  side,  a  little  Oscar  on  the 
other,  and  inscribed,  "To  Dad — From  Here 
To  Eternity." 

It  was  a  happy  Frank  who  said,  after 
that  evening,  "Everything  is  ahead  of  me. 
Man — I'm  on  top  of  the  world.  I'm  buoy- 
ant." 

Today  .  .  .  the  "freak  singer"  who  came 
to  Hollywood  leaning  on  a  microphone 
has  fifty-five  people  working  for  him  in 
connection  with  his  career  and  his  various 
enterprises.  As  Frank  has  said,  with  a 
grin,  "Suddenly,  I'm  a  one-man  industry." 
And  he  is.  At  Columbia  studios,  where 
Sinatra  was  paid  eight  thousand  dollars 
for  "From  Here  to  Eternity,"  he  recently 
got  a  reported  $150,000  for  "Pal  Joey"— 
and  twenty-five  percent  of  the  picture. 
He  has  a  healthy  percentage  of  Para- 
mount's  "The  Joker  Is  Wild,"  in  which  he 
plays  comedian  Joe  E.  Lewis,  and  of  his 
current  "Kings  Go  Forth,"  co-starring 
Natalie  Wood  and  Tony  Curtis  ...  to  be 
followed  by  "Jazz  Train,"  with  Sammy 
Davis,  Jr. 

Throughout  "Pal  Joey,"  he  was  confer- 
ring, between  scenes,  with  his  television 
staff  about  his  weekly  ABC-TV  show.  He 
was  recording  at  Capitol  Records  at  night 
until  two  A.M.  And  he  was  making  per- 
sonal appearances  on  weekends.  Between 
pictures — if  there's  an  extra  week — he 
plays   a   date   at   the   Sands   Hotel.    When 


I  saved  my 
MARRIAGE 

A  spade  is  called  a  spade  on  the  radio  program 
"My  True  Story".  It  brings  you  frank  stories  about 
real  people — about  their  hates  and  fears,  their  loves 
and  passions.  When  you  hear  these  dramatizations, 
you  may  easily  recognize  some  of  the  problems  that 
are  keeping  you  from  finding  happiness.  So  listen  to 
these  emotion-packed  stories.  Each  one  is  taken 
right  from  the  files  of  True  Story  Magazine. 

Tune  in  Every  Morning  to 

"MY  TRUE  STORY" 

National  Broadcasting  Company 

„     Don't  miss  the  strange  story  of  the  girl  who  cursed   her  sex  appeal.   Read   "The 
Prettiest  Girl  In  Town"  in  the  current  issue  of  TRUE  STORY  Magazine,  now  at  all 

newsstands. 

64 


he's  in  Hollywood,  you'll  usually  find  him, 
late  in  the  evening,  gladhanding  the  pa- 
trons and  doing  everything  but  baking 
pizzas  at  Patsy  D'Amore's  Villa  Capri 
restaurant — of  which  he  has  a  percentage. 

Suddenly,  he's  a  one-man  industry  .  .  . 
and  nothing  but  sevens.   .  .  . 

After  seeing  a  private  showing  of  "The 
Joker  Is  Wild"  recently,  Nancy  Sinatra,  a 
very  fair  critic,  told  friends  she  consid- 
ered this  "the  best  thing  Frank's  ever 
done.  He's  so  like  Joe  E.  Lewis  in  some 
scenes,   it's   a  little  frightening." 

Portraying  the  beloved  cafe  personality 
was  one  more  challenge  for  Frank  Sinatra, 
and  one  he  took  but  seriously:  "It  was  a 
hard  picture  for  me — because  I'm  not  a 
funny  man.  It  was  doubly  hard — because 
Joe  E.  Lewis  is  very  much  alive  and  has 
thousands  of  fans  who  would  gladly  boil 
me  alive  if  I  didn't  do  right  by  their  Joe. 
But  it  was  a  picture  I  had  to  make.  I've 
loved  the  guy  since  I  met  him  in  1938, 
and  I  wanted  this  film  to  be  made  with 
understanding  and  loving  hands." 

The  picture  shows  it.  Frank's  com- 
ment, when  he  saw  it  for  the  first  time, 
was,  "Boy,  we've  got  a  gasser,  a  real 
goodie.  If  the  people  don't  like  me  in 
this — I'm  through."  He  also  hazarded  a 
guess  that,  if  Joe  E.  Lewis's  fans  didn't  like 
him  in  it,  he  was  likewise  through  .  .  . 
soon  on  his  way  to  parts  unknown. 

He's  as  "through"  as  Hollywood's  bright- 
est new  star.  On  a  two-a-day  concert 
around  the  country,  just  recently,  Frank 
proved  the  old  Sinatra  magic  still  has  them 
very  largely  in  its  spell.  In  Albuquerque, 
Denver,  El  Paso,  Phoenix,  Seattle,  Van- 
couver— at  the  Cow  Palace  in  San  Fran- 
cisco— it  was  the  same  story.  An  ovation 
wherever  he  appeared.  The  soprano 
squeals  have  given  way,  today,  to  thun- 
derous applause  from  both  sexes — and  all 
ages.  The  same  public  Frank  Sinatra  is 
now  meeting  on  TV  screens  across  America. 

The  pace  was  hectic,  but  worth  it.  Frank 
worked  all  week  before  the  cameras  on 
"Pal  Joey,"  and  made  flying  appearances 
on  weekends,  accompanied  by  a  twenty- 
six-piece  band,  a  dance  team,  and  a  com- 
edian. He  played  twelve  stops  in  three 
weekends,  an  afternoon  show  in  Albu- 
querque on  Saturday  and  a  night  show  in 
Denver,  Sunday  afternoon  in  El  Paso  and 
Sunday  night  in  Phoenix.  And  so  on.  But 
the  welcome  he  received  everywhere  was 
worth  it. 

With  his  warm,  intimate  way  of  talking 
to  an  audience,  his  quick  wit,  his  songs — 
his  way  with  words — Sinatra  had  the  audi- 
ence hanging  on  his  every  word — spoken 
or   sung. 

The  Sinatra  versatility  at  work.  The 
same  magic,  the  warmth,  the  humor,  the 
music.  For  Frank,  meeting  his  public 
face-to-face  across  the  country  and  being 
welcomed  so  warmly  was  a  rewarding  and 
heartwarming  experience.  Expanding  him- 
self on  weekly  television  is  no  real  gam- 
ble .  .  .  just  another  challenge  in  the  life 
of  Francis  Albert  Sinatra.  Television  can't 
drain  him  professionally  or  personally. 
He's  too  much  talent — and  too  many 
men.  .  .  . 

To  those  who  view  more  passively  the 
adventure  of  living — and  so  clinically  re- 
view those  who  live  it  more  adventurously 
— Frank  is  always  somewhat  of  a  mystery. 
You  want  to  say,  "Quit  trying  to  explain 
him.  Just  enjoy  him  .  .  .  his  music  and 
his  magic.  His  bright,  hot,  exciting  talent 
that  touches  and  brightens  the  drabber 
fives  of  many,  many  fans  who  live  it  up 
a  little  more  through  him." 

Today's  Sinatra,  however,  has  changed 
in  the  one  all-important  way  .  .  .  which 
releases  all  cylinders  for  the  future.  He's 
no  longer  torn  between  two  lives — per- 
sonally and  professionally.  The  music  and 
the  emotion  are  channeled  one  way — his 
future  and  his  family. 


His  family  still  live  in  the  Holmby  Hills 
estate  he  bought,  with  its  swimming  pool, 
projection  room  and  rolling  lawns.  But 
they  live  relatively  simply.  There's  a 
playroom  that  can  accommodate  a  hun- 
dred guests,  but  the  only  time  it's  used 
is  when  Nancy,  Jr.  entertains  her  club 
at  University  High,  numbering  about  forty 
girls.  Nancy  Sinatra  talks  occasionally 
about  selling  the  house.  It's  Frank  who 
talks  against  it,  saying,  "Keep  it  for  the 
kids."  There's  a  Japanese  couple,  but 
Nancy  makes  many  of  the  children's 
clothes — and  cooks  most  of  the  meals. 
And  Frank  drops  by  to  see  the  children 
frequently. 

Frank  and  Nancy  Sinatra  are  an  intel- 
ligent example  of  how  to  be  parents 
though  divorced — how  to  see  to  it  that 
the  children  never  lack  for  love  or  atten- 
tion from  either  side.  They  share  the 
responsibility.  They  talk  over  any  prob- 
lems and,  if  there's  any  minor  disciplining 
in  order,  it's  Frank  who  lowers  the  boom, 
grounding  them  from  a  movie  or  a  party 
or  some  pleasure. 

Of  Frank  the  father,  a  close  friend  of 
the  Sinatras  says,  "If  Frank  were  a  father 
living  at  home,  I  don't  see  how  he  could 
be  more  generous  or  considerate  or 
thoughtful  or  affectionate." 

When  Tina  had  measles  not  long  ago 
and  had  to  be  closeted  in  a  dark  room  for 
ten  days,  her  father  bought  a  new  record- 
player  and  a  batch  of  kiddie  records — and 
called  her  constantly  through  the  day, 
keeping  her  company.  For  Nancy,  Jr.'s 
seventeenth  birthday,  Frank  surprised  her 
by  driving  over  a  pink  Thunderbird  with 
white  leather  upholstery,  and  the  family 
dined  at  the  Villa  Capri  together. 

Frank  has  unqualified  admiration  for 
the  wonderful  job  Nancy  Sinatra's  done 
raising  the  children.  They're  poised,  in- 
telligent   and    unspoiled.     They've    never 


attended  private  schools.  Their  mother 
believes  in  public  schools  and  has  wanted 
them  to  grow  up  like  the  wonderful  nor- 
mal kids  they  are.  She's  kept  them  out  of 
the  spotlight  as  much  as  possible.  Frank, 
Jr.  gets  a  weekly  allowance  of  seventy- 
five  cents,  and  Tina's  was  recently  raised 
from  a  quarter  to  thirty-five  cents.  All 
three  children  take  piano  and  are  talented 
musically,  and  Frank  couldn't  be  more 
delighted.  When  Nancy,  Jr.  was  younger, 
her  father  used  to  talk  about  how  happy 
he  would  be  if  she  loved  music  as  he  did. 
"She  has  a  great  ear  for  music  now,"  he 
would  say,  "and,  although  she  isn't  con- 
scious of  it,  I'm  training  it  all  I  can."  He 
used  to  wear  out  his  collection  of  classical 
records  playing  them  for  her  absorption. 
Nancy,  Jr.  is  very  talented  in  composing 
and  arranging  music  now. 

Frank,  Jr.,  who  resembles  his  dad  very 
much,  is  a  musical  wizard.  He's  been 
taking  piano  eight  years  and  he's  a  bril- 
liant young  pianist.  He  hears  his  father's 
numbers  and  works  out  his  own  interpre- 
tations on  the  piano  without  music.  He's 
quite  a  clown  and  shows  a  real  flair  for 
showmanship. 

On  one  weekend  concert  appearance, 
Sinatra  took  Frank,  Jr.  along.  When  the 
plane  was  airborne,  Frank  brought  his  son 
down  the  aisle  and  introduced  him  to 
Harry  Klee.  Young  Frank  had  just  gotten 
a  new  flute  a  few  days  before,  his  father 
explained,  and  he'd  brought  it  with  him: 
"Look — will  you  talk  to  him  about  his 
flute?" 

"Are  you  going  to  give  up  playing  the 
piano  now?"  one  of  the  musicians  asked. 
"Oh,  7io,"  Frank,  Jr.  said  quickly.  "I 
have  too  much  time  in  on  that  to  think  of 
giving  it  up.  It's  all  to  my  advantage  to 
stick  with  it  now." 

Frank,  Jr.  would  usually  ride  with  his 
father  from  the  plane,  but,  when  the  mu- 


sicians got  to  the  auditorium,  he'd  be 
standing  there  with  his  flute.  "Maybe  we 
only  had  three  minutes  to  talk — but  he 
was  ready  and  waiting.  I've  never  seen 
a  more  intelligent  thirteen-year-old.  He's 
real  sharp  and  he  can  come  out  real 
fast — but  he  knows  when  to  be  quiet, 
too,"  says   Harry  Klee. 

Frank,  Jr.  talked  about  the  seventy- 
piece  school  orchestra  at  Emerson  Junior 
High.  He  talked  about  his  composition 
class  and  the  arrangement  he  had  to  make 
for  the  seventy-piece  band.  "He  was  so 
smart,  he  talked  so  intelligently,  and  he 
knew  so  much  about  music — by  the  time 
he'd  finished  talking,  I  was  ready  to  go  to 
work  for  him,"  Sinatra's  flute  player 
laughs.  "They  have  a  wonderful  grown- 
up relationship,  Frank  and  his  son." 

When  the  bandwagon  first  rolled  and 
the  teenagers  were  swarming  around  him, 
Frank  used  to  look  at  them — and  talk 
about  what  he  wanted  for  Nancy,  Jr.  when 
she  was  seventeen.  What  he  wanted  to 
be  able  to  give  her.  The  home  he  wanted 
her  to  have  .  .  .  one  she  could  be  proud  of 
— and  bring  her  friends  to.  The  college 
education  .  .  .  the  musical  training.  He 
wanted  her  to  be  able  to  realize  the  im- 
portance of  environment — "the  neighbor- 
hood where  I  was  born  was  .  .  .  not  so 
good."  Today,  Nancy  is  seventeen.  Their 
father  is  able  to  provide  his  three  children 
with  the  college  education  he  didn't  have. 
The  advantages  he  didn't  have.  The  en- 
vironment he  didn't  have.  And  the  re- 
siduals from  Frank  Sinatra's  weekly  tele- 
vision show  will  be  a  trust  fund — a  legacy 
— to  insure  the  future  he  wants  for  them. 

And  there  is  another  legacy.  .  .  .  That  of 
a  scrappy  kid  from  Hoboken,  a  volcano  of 
music  and  talent,  'who— with  no  advan- 
tages, no  education  and  no  environment — 
came  from  behind  twice  .  .  .  and  made 
history  in  show  business. 


NONA/!     EASIER,    SURER 


ION 


FOR    YOUR     MOST    INTIMATE     MARRIAGE    PROBLEM 

Tested  by  doctors  .  .  .  proved  in  hospital  ciinics 


jyH    -,      "-  ■"■*,, 


1.  Antiseptic  (Protective,  germicidal  action) 
Norforms  are  safer  and  surer  than  ever!  A 
highly  perfected  new  formula  releases  anti- 
septic and  germicidal  ingredients  right  in 
the  vaginal  tract.  The  exclusive  new  base 
melts  at  body  temperature,  forming  a  pow- 
erful protective  film  that  permits  long- 
iasting  action.  Will  not  harm  delicate  tissues. 

2.  Deodorant  (Protection  from  odor)  Nor- 
forms were  tested  in  a  hospital  clinic  and 
found  to  be  more  effective  than  anything 


it  had  ever  used.  Norforms  are  deodorant — 
they  eliminate  (rather  than  cover  up)  embar- 
rassing odors,  yet  have  no  "medicine"  or 
"disinfectant"  odor  themselves. 

3.  Convenient  (So  easy  to  use)  Norforms 
are  small  vaginal  suppositories,  so  easy  and 
convenient  to  use.  Just  insert — no  appara- 
tus, mixing  or  measuring.  They're  grease- 
less  and  they  keep  in  any  climate.  Your 
druggist  has  them  in  boxes  of  12  and  24. 
Also  available  in  Canada. 


A  NORWICH   PRODUCT 


Tested  by  doctors  •  Trusted  by  women 

FREE  informative  Norforms  booklet 

Mail  coupon  to:  Dept.  RT-712,  Norwich 
Pharmacal  Co.,  Norwich,  N.  Y.  Send 
Norforms  booklet,  in  a  plain  envelope. 


Name. 
Street. 
City 


(please  print) 


_Zone_ 


_State_ 


65 


Western  Giant 


66 


(Continued  from  page  27) 
of  filming,  it  threw  Oklahoma-born,  saddle- 
bred  Garner  on  his  ear,  grinding  Warner 
Bros.'  back-lot  dust  into  his  silver-but- 
toned vest  and  new  black  hat.  Jim,  an 
ex -footballer,  rolled  safely  out  of  harm's 
way,  good-naturedly  accepted  the  jibes 
of  the  camera  crew. 

Gambler  Maverick,  as  producer  Bill  Orr 
sees  him,  is  a  roamer,  destination  any- 
where, willing  to  take  chances  on  life, 
laughs  or  love.  Independent  and  rootless, 
he's  tumbleweed  free.  His  prime  motive 
is  money.  He  admits  it.  He's  not  a  do- 
gooder,  doesn't  necessarily  play  accord- 
ing to  the  rules.  Bret  Maverick  is  out  to 
get  everything  he  can  without  hurting 
anyone  else — too  much. 

Garner's  Maverick  has  come  into  the  TV 
game  of  chance  with  a  fat  poke — namely 
the  powerful  and  combined  backing  of 
Henry  J.  Kaiser  Industries,  Warner  Bros, 
and  ABC-TV.  This  trio  have  enough  faith 
in  handsome  newcomer  Jim  Garner's 
ability  in  the  Maverick  role  to  bet  him 
against  a  couple  of  pros — Steve  Allen 
and  Ed  Sullivan.  With  a  half-an-hour 
headstart  on  these  two,  it  is  hoped  the 
new  Maverick  show  will  be  able  to  hold 
its  audience  against  the  charms  of  Allen 
and  Sullivan. 

A  rangy  six-foot-three,  darkly  hand- 
some Jim  Garner  is  perfectly  cast  as 
Maverick.  Besides  this  physical  identity, 
Garner's  background,  outlook  on  life  and 
personality  are  good  modern-day  counter- 
parts  to   the   early   adventurer. 

Garner  was  born  to  Weldon  and  Mil- 
dred Bumgarner  in  Norman,  Oklahoma, 
April  7,  1928.  His  mother  died  when  he 
was  five,  he  was  raised  by  his  father  and 
two  older  brothers  until  he  was  fifteen. 
Jim's  father  was  in  the  upholstery  and 
carpentry  business,  and  also  kept  a  small 
country  store.  "The  best  part  about  the 
store,"  Jim  remembers  fondly,  "was  the 
peanut  butter — in  bulk."  He  muses,  "Re- 
member when  it  was  sold  that  way?  .  .  . 
I  used  to  live  in  that  store,  every  time  I 
walked  by  the  peanut-butter  crock  I'd  dip 
in  and  swipe  a  gob.  Delicious." 

Jim  went  to  grade  school  in  Norman, 
but  his  teachers  complained  they  couldn't 
get  him  interested  in  his  studies.  One  of 
the  reasons  was  that  Jim  didn't  see  any 
use  in  school — he  was  getting  rich  on  the 
outside.  He  and  his  older  brothers  mowed 
lawns.  He  says,  "While  the  other  kids  read 
a  chapter  of  'Ivanhoe,'  I  could  earn  twenty- 
five  cents.  My  brother  and  I  were  known 
as  the  richest  kids  on  the  block."  When 
asked  about  summer  vacations,  Jim  hesi- 
tates, then  says,  "I  didn't  have  a  summer 
vacation — guess  you  could  say  I  was  on 
vacation  all  the  time." 

But,  contrary  to  his  own  low  opinion  of 
his  scholastic  ability,  Jim  earned  enough 
credits  to  come  back  later  to  Oklahoma 
University,  where  he  studied  business 
administration  for  a  time,  though  he  was 
never  graduated. 

Garner  describes  his  childhood  and  early 
teens  as  one  big  vacation.  But  he  also 
worked  hard.  He  clerked  in  his  father's 
store.  He  cleaned  chickens.  "I  worked  at 
that  job  the  shortest  time  of  any  job  I 
ever  had,"  says  Jim,  "but  I  suppose  some- 
body has  to  clean  chickens."  He  worked 
on  a  dairy  farm.  He  next  graduated  to 
cleaning  out  at  the  University.  "I  was 
thirteen  years  old  when  I  got  this  ad- 
vancement to  janitor.  One  of  the  best  jobs 
I  ever  had — my  own  boss  completely. 
Used  to  get  up  at  three-thirty  in  the 
morning,  wind  blowing,  ice  a  half-inch 
thick  and  trudge  off  to  the  school.  Made 
fifty  cents  an  hour.  But  the  job  really 
wasn't  as  bad  as  I  make  it  out — actually 


fun,  for  we  used  to  sled  downhill  on  the 
ice  to  work." 

Garner  never  in  his  wildest  dreams 
thought  of  himself  as  an  actor  or  per- 
former. In  fact,  he  considered  himself  an 
introvert,  dreaded  getting  up  in  front  of 
his  class  to  recite.  Generally  affable  and 
easygoing,  Jim's  expression  grows  serious 
as  he  recalls  this  early  period  Of  his  life. 
"I  hated  to  be  laughed  at,  I  wasn't  sure 
of  myself.  As  a  result,  I  was  the  sort  of 
kid  who  always  hung  around  in  the  back- 
ground at  parties.  I  can't  explain  it,  but 
growing  up  wasn't  easy  for  me." 

Jim's  good  looks  didn't  make  it  easier. 
He  had  one  family  friend  in  Norman, 
Oklahoma,  who  insisted  on  getting  a 
talent  scout  or  coach  up  to  see  Jim,  to 
encourage  him  to  go  into  motion  pictures. 
"I  didn't  want  to  appear  in  front  of  mil- 
lions of  people  on  a  screen,"  says  Jim,  as 
he  recalls  this  crisis.  "Why,  if  I  was  late 
for  church,  I  couldn't  even  walk  down  the 
aisle  to  a  front  pew.  But  I  did  spend  a 
great  deal  of  time  as  a  kid,  wondering 
about  my  career.  I  thought  a  lot  about 
getting  into  sports — my  brother  Jack  was 
a  professional  baseball  player,  now  in- 
tends becoming  a  professional  golfer,  and 
my  other  brother,  Charles,  is  a  teacher. 
I  guess  not  knowing  what  I  wanted  to 
do  made  me  restless." 

So,  at  sixteen,  Jim  was  off  to  New 
Orleans,  where  he  signed  on  as  a  seaman 
aboard  a  sea-going  tug.  He  spent  one 
year  in  the  Merchant  Marine.  In  the 
interim,  his  father  moved  to  Los  Angeles 
and  went  into  the  carpet-laying  contract- 
ing business.  Jim  joined  his  father  there, 
went  back  to  high  school  in  Hollywood, 
worked  in  a  gas  station  and  helped  his 
dad  in  his  spare  time.  But  Jim  was  not 
too  happy  in  Los  Angeles  and  decided 
to  return  to  Norman,  Oklahoma,  where 
he  completed  his  high-school  education. 
He  also  joined  the  Oklahoma  National 
Guard.  Garner  was  one  of  the  first  Okla- 
homa infantrymen  to  land  in  Korea,  served 
fourteen  months  with  the  Fifth  Regimen- 
tal Combat  Team  of  the  24th  Division,  was 
awarded  the  Purple  Heart  for  wounds  suf- 
fered in  action.  Jim  Garner  comes  by  his 
fighting  ability  in  Maverick  the  hard  way. 

After  war  service,  Jim  returned  to 
Los  Angeles.  "My  dad  came  to  me  one 
day,"  reports  Jim,  "saying,  'Look,  you 
don't  want  to  lay  carpets  all  your  life. 
Why  don't  you  go  out  and  find  something 
more  interesting,  something  you  could 
better  use  your  talents  on?' 

"I  sat  down  one  night  and  tried  to  look 
at  myself  objectively:  So  I  had  height, 
fair  looks  (without  bragging),  and  I 
kept  hearing  all  those  people  saying,  'You 
ought  to  be  in  pictures.'  All  right,  I 
figured  I'd  been  around  the  world,  seen 
how  all  kinds  of  people  lived  and  acted 
under  all  sorts  of  circumstances,  maybe 
I'd  learned  enough  to  be  an  actor.  I 
decided  to  give  it  a  year's  try." 

Shortly  after  returning  from  Korea, 
Jim  had  made  friends  with  a  young  soda- 
jerk  named  Paul  Gregory.  Jim  happened 
to  spy  his  name  on  the  front  of  a 
La  Cienega  building  one  day,  shortly 
after  he'd  finally  made  up  his  mind  to 
try  to  crack  the  entertainment  industry. 
Gregory  the  soda-jerk  was  now  Gregory 
the  producer  ("The  Caine  Mutiny  Court- 
Martial").  The  "ex"  gas  station  attendant 
confronted  his  old  friend  about  a  job  in 
movies.  Gregory  found  a  spot  for  the 
good-looking  young  man  he  thought  had 
talent,  gave  him  the  job  of  cueing  Lloyd 
Nolan,  then  in  rehearsal  for  "Caine." 
Producer  Gregory  later  put  Jim  into  a 
small  role  as  one  of  the  six  judges  in  the 
play.    Jim's  acting   career  had   begun. 

In   thinking   back    on   his   performances, 


Jim  says,  "In  the  past,  I  had  always  said 
that  show  business  wasn't  for  me — I'd 
wanted  no  part  of  it.  Somehow,  I  think 
I  was  still  fighting  this  battle  every  night 
I  got  up  on  that  stage  in  front  of  a  theater 
full  of  people.  But,  in  the  play,  the  judges 
never  speak.  So  Paul  Gregory  and  Charles 
Laughton,  who  later  helped  me,  didn't 
know  what  I  was  going  through.  They 
probably  thought  my  rather  intense  ex- 
pression  was   good   acting." 

Then  one  of  the  supporting  players  left 
the  cast  and  Gregory  offered  the  meaty 
role  of  Maryk  to  Garner.  "You  could 
call  this  my  black  moment,"  muses  Jim. 
"My  first  reading  and  rehearsal  were 
rotten.  I  was  tied  up  .  .  .  and  felt  that  if 
acting  were  to  be  this  hard,  I'd  quit.  But 
I  couldn't  quit.  I'd  held  so  many  other 
jobs  for  short  periods.  When  I'd  gone 
into  this  acting  game,  I'd  promised  my- 
self I  would  stick  to  it  until  I'd  won  or 
lost.  So,  all  through  rehearsal,  I  was 
miserable  ...  I  was  afraid  of  reading 
badly  .  .  .  afraid  of  doing  the  wrong 
thing.  At  noon,  Mr.  Laughton  came  over 
to  me  saying,  'Jimmy,  boy,  you  and  I 
are  going  to  lunch  .  .  .  we're  going  to 
have  a  little  talk.'" 

At  lunch,  Laughton  told  Jim  that  he 
and  Mr.  Gregory  had  great  faith  in  his 
acting  ability.  If  they  hadn't  thought  so, 
they  wouldn't  have  offered  him  the  role 
in  the  first  place.  In  fact,  they'd  have 
dropped  him  from  the   company. 

"Their  faith  gave  me  courage,"  says 
Jim,  "perhaps  only  momentarily,  but  it 
was  all  I  needed.  My  fear,  after  all,  was 
only  ego.  I  didn't  want  to  be  criticized, 
and  this  so  tied  me  in  knots  I  couldn't 
make  the  first  few  steps.  After  lunch, 
I  went  back  .  .  .  and  did  my  best.  That's 
all  anybody  can  do.  It  wasn't  good.  But 
it  wasn't  bad,  either,  and  the  more  I 
worked  at  it,  the  easier  it  became. 

"From  this  experience  I  learned  a 
simple  but  important  lesson:  If  you  have 
a  problem,  jump  in  and  tackle  it — don't 
put  it  off.  I  think  we  relearn  this  lesson 
all  through  our  lives." 

With  the  end  of  the  road-company  tour 
of  "Caine,"  the  wanderer  part  of  Jim 
Garner's  career  was  nearing  its  end.  On 
his  return  to  Hollywood  in  1955,  he  took 
two  small  roles  in  Warner  Bros.  TV 
serial,  Cheyenne.  His  acting,  now  im- 
proved by  coaching  under  Anthony 
Mannino  at  the  Herbert  Berghof  School 
in  New  York,  was  strong  enough  to  catch 
the  eyes  of  Warners'  talent  department. 
Jim  was  screen-tested,  then  placed  under 
contract.  In  rapid  succession,  there  fol- 
lowed roles  in  "Toward  the  Unknown" 
and  "The  Girl  He  Left  Behind." 

Garner's  big  break  came  when  he  won 
the  important  role  of  Captain  Bailey, 
friend  of  Marlon  Brando,  in  "Sayonara." 
After  viewing  the  "Sayonara"  rushes,"  the 
studio  immediately  upped  him  to  the  title 
role  of  Colonel  Darby  in  "Darby's  Ran- 
gers." Garner  proved  he  could  carry 
a  major  vehicle  on  his  own.  And  he  was 
given  the  lead  in  the  hot  new  television 
series,  Maverick. 

If  there's  one  word  that  best  describes 
pre-Maverick  Garner,  it  is  freebooter. 
"In  my  bachelor  days,"  says  Jim  bluntly, 
"if  I  wanted  to  take  off  for  Cucamunga, 
I  took  off  for  Cucamunga." 

Then  came  marriage  and  responsibili- 
ties. Though  Garner,  like  Bret  Maverick, 
is  a  devil-may-care  sort  of  guy  on  the 
surface,  underneath  he's  a  serious  and 
meditative  individual.  He  dropped  his 
footloose-and-fancy-free  ways  when  he 
and  his  wife  Lois  were  married  in   1956. 

Lois  and  Jim  met  at  a  mutual  friend's 
house.    He    describes    his    initial    reaction 


as  follows:  "I  came  up  to  the  pool.  Every- 
body was  in  bathing  suits  but  me.  Some- 
body said,  'Lois,  this  is  Jim  Garner.' " 
Eyes  met,  hands  clasped,  friendly  smiles 
exchanged.  Jim,  in  a  state  of  shock  at 
Lois's  beauty,  swears  that  was  all  he 
remembers  for  the  rest  of  the  afternoon. 

Lois's  memory,  on  the  other  hand,  is 
more  precise:  "Jim  proved  to  be  the  most 
remarkable  man,"  she  enthuses,  as  if 
she'd  made  the  discovery  again  for  the 
first  time.  "Somehow,  you  can  tell  what 
kind  of  heart  a  man  has  by  the  way  he 
acts  around  children.  Or — more  truth- 
fully— by  the  way  children  act  around  him. 

"There  were  twelve  kids  in  the  pool," 
she  continues,  "and  they  climbed  all  over 
Jim  like  monkeys  in  a  tree.  They  played 
something  called  'monster  of  the  deep' — 
Jim  was  the  monster.  He  lasted  all  after- 
noon, and  was  still  laughing  at  the  end." 

That  Jim  loved  children  was  important 
to  Lois,  whose  own  daughter,  eight-year- 
old  Kimberly,  was  just  that  day  coming 
out  of  the  hospital  after  being  confined 
with  a  severe,  though  not  crippling,  case 
of  polio. 

But  Jim  and  Lois  hit  it  off  from  the 
start.  "We  laughed  at  one  another's 
jokes,"  Jim  says,  "and  what  impressed  me 
right  off,  Lois  laughed  at  all  my  jokes." 
He  adds,  as  an  after-thought,  "And  not 
all  my  jokes  are  funny." 

Jim  and  Lois  were  married  within  the 
month.  He  says  candidly,  "I  don't  do 
things  halfway.  We  could  have  been 
married  sooner,  but  we  were  helping 
Kimberly  to  get  back  on  her  feet."  He 
adds  with  a  grin,  "Otherwise,  we  would 
have  had  a  real  whirlwind  courtship." 

l  oday,  Jim's  schedule — which  is  fairly 
frantic,  considering  the  fact  that  he  shoots 
an  hour-long  TV  film  in  five  days — still 
allows  him  time  to  be  with  his  new  and 
growing  family.  The  Garners  are  expect- 
ing a  child  in  December.  But  they  are 
not  as  free  as  before  Jim's  career  went 
into  high  gear.  "The  three  of  us  used  to 
spend  whole  weekends  at  the  beach," 
Jim  says  nostalgically.  "Now  we're  lucky 
if  there's  an  afternoon  available." 

Kimberly  and  Jim  developed  a  loving 
relationship  in  spite  of  the  fact  that  he 
is  the  disciplinarian  around  the  house. 
"Kim  will  only  study  the  things  she's 
interested  in,"  Jim  reports.  "This  won't 
do.  Somebody  has  to  give  in,  and  since 
I'm  the  boss,  it  can't  be  me. 

"Well,  I  spanked  her  just  once — and, 
since  she  will  probably  read  this,  I  have 
to  say  it  was  only  the  first  time.  But, 
believe  me,  I  was,  worried  about  how  she 
was  going  to  take  it.  Afterwards,  she 
slowly  went  back  to  finish  her  lessons, 
moping  around  for  about  an  hour.  I 
thought  maybe  I'd  lost  a  daughter.  Then 
the  doorbell  rang,  and  some  of  our  mutual 
friends  came  in.  We  greeted  them,  and 
Kim  piped  up  proudly  with,  'Jimmy  gave 
me  a  spanking!' 

"You  know,"  says  Jim  seriously,  "it's 
the  way  children  say  things  that's  impor- 
tant. If  they  like  you,  somehow  they'll 
let  you  know.  If  they  don't,  believe  me, 
they  won't  leave  you  in  doubt.  I  can't 
tell  you  how  glad  I  felt  inside  when 
Kimberly,  smiling  and  proud,  told  of  the 
spanking.  It  certainly  is  important  to  be 
accepted  as  a  child — and  I  can  tell  you 
it's  just  as  important  to  be  accepted  as  a 
parent." 

Today,  big  Jim  Garner  and  his  bride 
are  happily  settled  in  their  new  apartment 
and  dream  of  a  home  of  their  own  in  the 
near  future.  With  his  career  zooming, 
Jim  has  found  that  perseverance  does 
pay  off.  Surrounded  by  the  love  of  his 
family,  Jim  finds  that  in  real  life  as  well 
as  on  the  TV  screen,  Lady  luck  has  smiled 
on  Jim  Maverick  Garner. 


PHOTO 


What 

Her 

Mother 

Thinks  of 

JAYNE 

MANSFIELD 

read  this  unusual  story  in  the 
December  issue  of 

PHOTOPLAY 

At  Newsstands  Now  g 

Also  in  PHOTOPLAY  jj 

•  TAB  HUNTER  WRITES  A  LOVE   SONG —     j| 
words  and  music  in  PHOTOPLAY  ■ 

•  TEENAGERS  INTERVIEW  BURT  J 
LANCASTER  |j 

•  ARE  NATALIE  AND  BOB  RIGHT  FOR  | 
MARRIAGE?  m 

•  ROCK  HUDSON  ON  THE  SET  OF  "A  J 
FAREWELL  TO  ARMS"  || 

HOW  MARRIAGE  CHANGED  CARY  GRANT     J 

WHY  ANN  BLYTH  WANTED  TO  PLAY  ■ 

HELEN  MORGAN  |j 

JOAN  CRAWFORD  DISCUSSES  HER  ( 

ADOPTED  CHILDREN  j| 

VOTE  FOR  YOUR  FAVORITE  ( 

MOVIE  STARS  FOR  PHOTO-  jj 

PLATS  ANNUAL  GOLD  MEDALS  dllllHIlillH 
PHOTOPLAY — at  newsstands  now — 25^ 
SAVE  NOW  WITH  A  PHOTOPLAY 
SUBSCRIPTION 

mail  this  coupon  today 

PHOTOPLAY,  Dept.  WG12-57 

205  E.  42  Street.  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 

— Check  One — 
Sirs:   (a)   Send  me  the  next  12  issues  of  PHOTOPLAY  for  only  $2.50. 
$2.50  enclosed  D  Bill  me  □ 

(b)   Send  me  the  next  24  issues  of  PHOTOPLAY  for  only  $4. 
$4  enclosed  D  Bill  me  D 

— Check  One — 
□  Extend  my  present  subscription  □  New  subscription 

Name 


Address. 
City 


Zone.  .  .    State. 


67 


Romance  in  a  Whirlwind 


(Continued  from  page  58) 
mountain    pass    in    Switzerland    .    .    .    and 
Cynthia  was  hospitalized  briefly  in  Rome. 
("She    did    a    marvelous    Camille,"    says 
Dick.) 

Now  to  pick  up  the  story  on  the  eve  of 
their  second  trip  abroad,  for  Patrick  (the 
only  American  player  in  the  cast)  to 
make  a  whole  series  of  films  as  Dick  Star- 
rett,  American  insurance  adjuster  as- 
signed to  London  and  married  to  the 
daughter  of  an  earl  (played  by  the  well- 
known  British  and  stage  star  Hazel 
Court),  whom  Dick  teasingly  calls  "the 
Duchess." 

The  next  day,  Patrick  and  Cynthia  were 
flying  to  London,  and  already  you  could 
feel  the  mood  of  Old  England,  although 
the  place  was  still  New  York,  at  the 
O'Neal  apartment.  Patrick  had  instructed 
you:  "Come  to  this  block  on  Third  Ave- 
nue and  you  find  an  Antiques  Bazaar. 
Ask  for  us.     They  will  know." 

He  was  quite  right.  They  did.  The 
bazaar  was  an  old  curiosity  shop,  straight 
out  of  Dickens,  except  that  a  debonair 
and  modern  young  man  with  a  nice  smile 
waves  the  way  through  the  delightful 
clutter  of  objects  to  a  little  white-railed 
stairway  at  the  rear  leading  to  the  upper 
.  floors.  They,  too,  are  furnished  with 
antiques — but   in   less    profusion. 

l^ynthia's  brown  bob  is  shoulder  length, 
her  blue  eyes  not  quite  so  deep  as 
Patrick's,  or  maybe  his  seem  bluer  be- 
cause his  hair  is  so  dark.  She  is  fairly 
tall  for  a  woman  (five-seven),  as  he  is 
tall  for  a  man  (six-one).  You  notice  her 
well-shaped  mouth,  her  pretty  profile, 
and  her  poise.  You  notice  his  strong  fea- 
tures and  darkly  marked  brows,  his 
laughing  kind  of  face  and  the  way  his 
eyes  send  out  little  sparkles  while  he 
talks.  He  was  just  thirty  this  Septem- 
ber 26.  She  was  twenty-three  last  April  19. 
"I  was  an  actress,"  she  says.  "Was,  be- 
cause now,  whatever  else  I  may  do,  I 
mainly  want  to  make  a  home  for  Patrick. 
Oh,  I  may  see  some  of  the  London  fashion 
magazines  while  we're  over  there  and  try 
to  do  some  modeling.  I  might  even  do 
an  occasional  part  in  Dick  And  The 
Duchess  with  Patrick.  But  I  don't  see 
how  I  can  be  a  wife,  and  make  a  home, 
and  look  forward  to  being  a  mother  some 
day  and  plan  a  full-time  career,  too." 

Patrick  interrupts.  "They  wanted  to  test 
her,"  he  says  quickly,  "when  they  were 
looking  for  an  actress  to  play  Marjorie 
Morningstar — Natalie  Wood  got  the  part — 
but  she  turned  down  the  chance  to  test. 
It  wouldn't  have  worked  out  for  Cynthia 
to  be  under  contract.  Here  I  am  going 
to  London  for  six  months,  and  maybe  a 
year,  and  she  couldn't  have  gone  along 
if  she  were  tied  to  a  studio.  We  feel 
that  acting  is  like  any  other  kind  of  work 
for  a  wife,  and  a  fine  thing,  as  long  as 
the  emphasis  is  on  us  and  the  home  life 
first,  and  as  long  as  it  doesn't  separate 
us." 

Cynthia  talks  about  seeing  Patrick  in  a 
Matinee  Theater  broadcast  before  she  ever 
met  him.  "We  had  this  same  agent,  and 
he  just  sat  me  down  and  told  me  to  watch 
Patrick.  We  had  been  rehearsing  next 
door  to  each  other,  both  for  Matinee 
Theater  dramas.  He  had  been  telling  me 
they  had  this  wonderful  actor  from  New 
York,  and  I  knew  then  what  he  meant. 
I  thought  he  was  great." 

"We   went   to    a   swimming   party    at    a 

T     writer's  home  in   Beverly   Hills,   the   first 

v    day  we  met,"  says  Patrick.    "It  was  rather 

R     instantaneous  for  us  both,  but  we  waited 

another  three  days  to  make  a  date,  until 

Cynthia   was   through   with   her   show." 

00 


"After  that,"  says  Cynthia,  "we  saw 
each  other  every  day  we  could." 

Seven  months  to  the  day  after  they  met, 
they  were  married.     Last  January  17. 

Dick  And  The  Duchess  speeded  up  the 
wedding  date.  They  were  East  on  vaca- 
tion. San  Francisco-born  Cynthia  Bax- 
ter had  never  seen  Times  Square  on  New 
Year's  Eve,  or  the  celebrating  crowds  all 
over  the  city  of  New  York. 

"Cynthia  was  staying  with  a  girl  friend 
of  a  guy  friend  of  mine,"  Patrick  recalls. 
"I  was  staying  in  this  apartment.  Nicole 
Milinaire,  Sheldon  Reynolds'  executive 
producer  and  right-hand,  had  to  find 
someone  immediately,  because  they  were 
ready  to  make  the  pilot  film.  A  hundred 
actors  must  have  read  for  the  part — I 
stumbled  over  quite  a  few  when  I  went 
in.  We  talked,  and  I  read,  and  in  a  few 
days  Nicole  called  me  up  and  said  I  had 
it,  if  I  still  wanted  to  go.  We  got  down 
to  terms,  and  I  was  set  to  fly  to  Paris  at 
once  and  then  go  to  London.  I  broke 
the  news  to  Cynthia." 

They  had  a  dinner  date,  and  Cynthia 
picked  him  up  at  his  apartment.  He  had 
been  delayed,  was  still  in  the  shower. 
She  waited,  holding  back  tears  at  the 
coming  separation.  "I  think  more  clearly 
than  usual  when  I  am  in  the  shower,  for 
some  reason,"  Patrick  twinkles,  "and  I 
decided  we  should  get  married  right  away. 
I  yelled  to  Cynthia  from  the  bathroom — 
if  you  could  call  that  a  proposal." 

Cynthia  sat  down  on  the  floor  near 
the  bathroom  door  and  cried  so  hard  she 
could  hardly  answer  Patrick.  "The  rest 
of  the  evening  I  did  nothing  but  gibber," 
she  swears.  "Patrick  was  in  charge  of 
everything." 

"I  was  in  charge,"  he  admits,  "but  I  was 
like  an  automaton.  I  don't  know  now 
how  I  did  it."  His  parents  had  come  up 
from  Florida  to  see  him  off.  Cynthia's 
father  flew  in  from  California.  Patrick's 
father  found  a  lawyer  friend  who  knew 
a  Supreme  Court  judge  who  could  help 
them  comply  with  the  provisions  of  the 
three-day  law  governing  marriages  in 
New  York  State  but  might  be  able  to 
speed  up  the  various  steps. 

They  were  at  the  passport  office  at 
ten-thirty  in  the  morning.  Someone 
wired  Washington  and  the  passports  were 
issued  in  a  few  hours,  instead  of  days 
later.  At  noon,  they  had  their  blood  tests. 
Reports  which  usually  take  a  couple  of 
days    were    back    in    a    couple    of    hours. 

People  were  dispatched  all  over  New 
York  on  errands.  Patrick's  father  got  the 
wedding  ring  for  him,  a  wide  gold  band, 
worn  above  a  narrower  matching  band. 
Cynthia's  father  picked  up  her  suit  at  the 
shop  where  it  had  been  ordered.  Patrick's 
mother  picked  up  his  suit  at  the  tailor's. 

Their  lawyer  friend  sent  one  of  his 
young  men  over  the  ground  the  young 
couple  would  have  to  cover  in  a  pre- 
scribed time,  since  their  plane  was  leav- 
ing International  Airport  for  Paris  early 
that  evening,  and  every  moment  would 
count.  The  man  rehearsed  and  timed  the 
whole  procedure,  going  on  foot  from 
building  to  building  in  the  snow,  making 
all  the  advance  arrangements,  clocking 
the  time  needed  to  get  the  marriage  li- 
cense, even  running  up  the  steps  of  the 
building.  Elevators  were  held  for  them. 
The  judge,  imposing  in  his  black  robes, 
recessed  court  to  sign  the  required  three- 
day  waiver. 

"Our  folks,"  says  Cynthia,  "waited  at 
City  Hall  and  we  had  to  go  back  there.  We 
ran  all  the  way,  to  be  married  in  the 
most  unromantic  ceremony  anyone  ever 
had,  by  a  man  who  rattled  off  the  words 
like  a  tobacco  auctioneer." 


They  made  a  seven  o'clock  plane  that 
evening,  celebrated  with  champagne, 
landed  in  Paris  .  .  .  and  Patrick  was  on 
the  streets  of  London  the  next  day,  for 
some  of  the  Dick  And  The  Duchess  scenes, 
then  back  to  Paris  for  two  more  weeks  of 
filming.  After  that,  they  were  on  their 
own  seeing  all  the  romantic  landmarks. 
After  a  vacation  week  in  Paris,  they  were 
off  across  Europe  on  that  two-month 
honeymoon. 

In  Switzerland,  with  no  food  between 
them  except  one  chocolate  bar,  they 
started  up  over  a  mountain  pass  late  one 
night,  after  plowing  through  a  small  snow- 
covered  village,  finally  decided  the  bliz- 
zard was  too  heavy  and  they  had  better 
get  back  to  the  little  inn  and  stay  over- 
night. Next  morning,  they  learned  that 
the  road  ended  a  few  miles  beyond  and 
the  pass  was  snowed  in  completely  for 
six  months  out  of  twelve.  In  Rome,  Cyn- 
thia picked  up  a  debilitating  virus  and 
spent  a  depressing  week  in  a  hospital. 
But  their  whole  trip  was  so  wonderful 
that  neither  blizzards  nor  "bugs"  could 
have  spoiled  it. 

.Patrick  had  become  an  actor,  in  the 
first  place,  by  what  he  calls  "a  process 
of  elimination."  He  took  mathematics  at 
college  (the  University  of  Florida),  but 
didn't  like  it  well  enough.  For  the  same 
reason,  he  had  no  interest  in  engineering, 
into  which  many  of  his  friends  were  going. 
He  liked  history,  but  didn't  think  he  was 
good  enough  at  it.  Business  didn't  appeal 
to  him.  He  liked  the  theater.  Dramatics. 
He  was  good  at  that.  And  he  was  gradu- 
ated with  a  BA.  in  Theater  and  stayed 
with  it. 

His  experience  has  included  plenty  of 
summer  stock,  stage  plays — notably  the 
Broadway  production  and  a  summer  tour 
of  "Oh  Men!  Oh  Women!"  with  Franchot 
Tone  and  Betsy  von  Furstenburg.  Two 
Hollywood  movies — "The  Black  Shield  of 
Falworth,"  with  Tony  Curtis,  and  "The 
Mad  Magician,"  with  Vincent  Price. 
("Good  parts  in  not  very  big  pictures.") 
On  television,  he  has  appeared  in  almost 
every  dramatic  program,  on  one  or  more 
of  their  shows.  ("Good  shows,  but  not 
always  big  parts.")  In  the  United  States 
Air  Force,  he  was  made  a  television 
director  in  the  TV  Squadron,  where  he 
felt  right  at  home. 

Recently,  Patrick  has  been  doing  some 
writing,  most  important  of  which  is  work 
on  a  screen  adaptation  of  a  story  by  the 
noted  author,  Marjorie  Kinnan  Rawlings, 
who  comes  from  his  own  area  in  Florida 
(he's  from  Ocala).  He  wants  to  produce 
or   help   produce   it   himself. 

There's  a  role  in  the  story  for  a  girl 
and  Cynthia  might  like  to  play  it,  but  this 
is  somewhat  doubtful.  They  are  both 
against  husband  and  wife  working  to- 
gether (except,  perhaps,  for  an  episode 
or  two  in  Dick  And  The  Duchess,  which 
would  be  fun).  Explains  Patrick,  "As 
long  as  somebody  in  a  family  has  to  work 
for  a  living,  it  should  be  the  man.  That 
means  me.  I'll  take  care  of  all  that,  and 
Cynthia  will  take  care  of  me." 

"We  want  a  good  life  together  and  each 
will  have  to  give  up  some  things  for  the 
other,"  Cynthia  explains.  "We  have  a 
phrase  we  use  frequently — When  you  are 
doing  something  you  don't  want  to  do, 
but  should  do,  you  are  getting  to  be 
mature." 

So  far,  however,  everything  the  Patrick 
O'Neals  have  ever  wanted  to  do — and 
much  more — has  come  their  way.  Ro- 
mantic, adventurous,  wonderful  things. 
With  a  prospect  of  going  on  and  on.  Like 
the  adventures  of  Dick  And  The  Duchess 
themselves. 


Dashing  Lady 


Haila  and  actor  husband  share  mutual 
interests — here,   coffee   and   new   script. 


(Continued  from  page  60) 
tired  or  ill,"  Haila  says.  Likely  as 
not,  a  reporter  will  have  to  interview  her, 
as  this  one  did,  via  a  series  of  written 
questions  and  answers  exchanged  while 
Haila  sits  under  a  hairdryer.  Simple 
beauty  care  is  one  of  her  time-savers. 
"I  believe  in  keeping  skin  nice  and  clean," 
she  explains,  "so  that  I  don't  need  too 
much  make-up."  Her  method?  Soap  and 
water.  She  does  wear  lots  of  eye  make- 
up. "I'm  blonde  and  need  it.  I've  learned 
to  put  on  lipstick  and  mascara  in  my  car, 
between  green  lights,"  she  laughs.  "I  used 
to  startle  the  policeman  at  Fifty-seventh 
Street,  but  he's  used  to  it  by  now."  She 
uses  bright  pink  lipstick  to  accent  every- 
thing she  wears — navy,  black,  orange, 
yellow,  beige.  "I  always  have  two  or 
three  beige  outfits,"  she  says.  "At  the 
moment,  two  suits  and  a  chiffon  cocktail 
dress  with  a  stole  in  shades  graduated 
from  beige  to  cocoa.  Beige  is  as  basic 
as  black,  and  more  cheerful."  She  loves 
unusual  shoes — stripes,  polka  dots,  flo- 
ral prints,  glass  slippers,  and  orange  shoes 
to  spark  beige.  The  rules  for  good  act- 
ing, claims  Haila,  are  the  same  as  for 
being  an  attractive  woman.  "Be  interested 
in  people,  listen  to  them,  look  at  them 
when  you  talk  to  them.  Avoid  .unneces- 
sary gestures.  Develop  a  well -modulated 
voice  and  clear  speech.  Watch  your 
weight,  walk  and  posture.  Don't  cross 
your  legs  unless  they're  worth  attention. 
Be  individual  but  not  grotesque.  Adapt 
a  fad  to  yourself,  not  yourself  to  the 
fad."  A  magnificent  cook,  Haila  devotes 
Sunday  to  creating  elaborate  meals  for 
the  family.  "We  crowd  a  whole  domestic 
life  into  that  one  day  with  the  three 
children,"  she  smiles.  They  garden,  read 
the  paper,  watch  TV  —  "and  have  a 
wonderful  time."  One  of  her  favorite 
roles  is  Auntie  Mame.  "Mame  is  an  indi- 
vidualist," Haila  explains.  "She  believes 
in  exposing  a  child  to  everything,  not 
sheltering  it.  She  believes  in  teaching 
strong  values,  which  will  prevail  no 
matter  what  the  child  meets.  Mame  al- 
ways remains  true  to  herself  and  her 
ideals."    The  same  goes  for  Haila  Stoddard. 

January 
TV   RADIO   MIRROR 

at  your  favorite  newsstand  December  5 


U  Do  you  want 

i      -A  HEALTHY  BABY? 

1  -A  SUCCESSFUL  MARRIAGE? 
|       -A  HAPPY  HOME? 

^  Then  you  will  want  these  three  books.    Each  one  is  a  well  of 

=  information,  invaluable  in  its  own  right.    Together  they  repre- 

=B  sent  the  inner  peace  and  security  that  come  with  the  knowledge 

B  that   help   is   on   hand — that   the   solutions   to   many   problems 

Hj  which  may  arise  are  between  these  covers. 

jj  WHAT  SHOULD   I   DO? 

jj|  This  book  has  helped  thousands  of  women  find  peace 

^^  of  mind  and  satisfaction.  It  frankly  and  honestly  an- 

^^  swers   the   most   intimate   questions   women   ask.   The 

^^  problems   in   this   book   were   carefully   selected   from 

^S  more  than  50,000  received  by  the  editors  of  True  Story 

^^  Magazine.  An  invaluable,  year-round  guide  to  a  hap- 

^=  pier  life.  (paperbound  only) 


mm 


THE  MODERN   BOOK  OF  MARRIAGE 

Whether  you  are  married  or  about  to  be  married,  you 
will  find  this  book  a  "must."  Written  by  Dr.  Lena  Levine, 
a  physician  and  psychiatrist,  who  is  also  a  practicing  mar- 
riage counselor,  it  answers  the  most  pressing  questions 
of  modern  marriage  completely,  understandably,  and 
sympathetically.  Truly  a   guide  to  marital  happiness. 

(paperbound  and  hardbound) 


THE  MODERN  BOOK  OF  INFANT  AND 
CHILD  CARE 

An  easy-to-read,  authoritative  book  on  how  to  raise 
children.  Takes  the  guesswork  out  of  many  phases  of 
child-rearing.  Written  by  three  experienced  doctors, 
this  book  gives  practical,  down-to-earth  advice  on 
bringing  up  children  from  infancy  to  school  age. 
Covers  feeding  problems,  childhood  diseases,  thumb- 
sucking,  toilet-training,  and  other  vital  subjects.  Spe- 
cial section  on  giving  birth. 

(paperbound  and  hardbound) 


HERE  ARE  THREE  BOOKS  FOR  EVERY  HOME  LIBRARY 


Bartholomew  House,  Inc.,  Dept.  WG1257 
205  East  42  St.,  New  York  17,  New  York 

Please  send  me  the  following  books: 
□  MODERN   BOOK  OF  MARRIAGE  $1.00 
INFANT  AND  CHILD  CARE  $1.00 

WHAT  SHOULD  I  DO?  $1.00 

SPECIALI-Three  for  $2.50 


a 
a 
a 

The    following    may    be 
editions: 


□  MODERN   BOOK  OF  MARRIAGE   $2.50 

□  INFANT  AND  CHILD  CARE  $2.95 

□  SPECIA.L!-Two  for  $4.00 

I  enclose  $ for  books  ordered. 

NAME 


had    in    hardbound 


STREET. 


CITY STATE. 


BOSOM  BEAUTY  thru  Swedish  method 


Jf%tl 


adjustable  tension 

Just  10  minutes  a  day  will  give  you  the  beautiful  form  you  desire.  New 
exercise  development  based  on  sound  principles  adds  weiqht  WHERE  YOU 
WANT  IT.  Enlarges  and  firms,  lifts  and  develops  pectoral  tissues  when  our 
simple  instructions  are  followed.  Vibrant  bosom  beauty  can  be  yours  with 
safe,  healthful  exercise.  Most  certain  and  most  permanent  method  known. 
Definite  results.  Guaranteed  to  add  a  minimum  of  one  inch  to  your  bustline 
in  90  days  or  your  money  back.  You'll  look  better  and  feel  better— this  is  the 
type  of  light  exercise  that  doctors  recommend.  Slim  your  waist,  make  your 
legs  shapely,  remove  ugly  fat  by  the  same  proven  principles  with  our  explicit 
directions.  Surgical  gum  rubber  exerciser  and  complete  instructions  for  only 
$2.98.  Satisfaction  guaranteed.  Send  to: 
TECHRITE    CORP.,     BOXM-4,     SAN     GABRIEL,    CALIFORNIA 


69 


Presley's  Fight  for  a  Private  Life 


7!) 


(Continued  from  page  44) 
to    long-time    friends    that    he    is    lonely. 

At  the  same  time,  an  army  of  devoted 
fans  daily  besiege  his  gates.  It  would 
surprise  virtually  all  of  them  to  be  told 
that  the  hero  they  clamor  to  see  should, 
at  times,  feel  cut  off  from  the  human  com- 
panionship which  they  are  all  too  eager 
to  give.  Yet,  when  one  visits  Memphis, 
the  evidence  mounts  that  it  is  their  very 
adulation  which  has  forced  him  into 
isolation.  He  struggles  to  attain  that 
freedom  of  movement  and  choice  of  in- 
terests which  most  Americans  hold  as  a 
birthright. 

Elvis  told  one  old  friend,  "I  got  the  feel- 
ing I  had  to  get  out.  So  I  went  downtown 
and  I  bought  me  a  make-up  kit."  He 
gave  no  indication  how  far  he  went  on 
the  false-whiskers-putty-nose  routine. 
He  did  say  he  wore  a  hat.  He  also  ad- 
mitted he  was  somewhat  less  deceptive 
than  Lon  Chaney.  "I  tried  to  sneak  out 
the  back  way — but,  man,  it  was  no  use. 
When  I  hit  the  road,  they  were  after  me." 

iMvis  has  learned '  that  there  are  penal- 
ties as  well  as  premiums,  attached  to  be- 
ing, at  twenty-two,  a  singing,  acting,  jet- 
propelled  self-made  millionaire.  Unlike 
most  of  his  fellow  millionaires  in  a  day 
when  high  taxes  have  cut  both  income  and 
ostentation,  Elvis  lives  behind  high  iron 
gates,   guarded  twenty-four  hours  a  day. 

Elvis  bought  the  fourteen-acre  estate 
early  in  1957 — "on  the  spur  of  the  mo- 
ment, as  he  does  everything,"  says  one 
friend.  It  formerly  was  owned  by  a  phy- 
sician who  had  a  stable  of  prize-winning 
show  horses.  Doubtless  there  are  some 
persons  who  would  have  found  its  re- 
ported eighteen  rooms  a  burden,  in  these 
days  when  domestic  help  is  scarce,  but 
it  suited  Elvis  even  when — as  he  told  a 
friend — "it  was  filled  with  cobwebs  and 
the  plaster  was  cracked."  Before  return- 
ing to  Hollywood  to  make  a  picture,  he 
ordered  its  renovation  and  decoration, 
and  phoned  his  mother  every  day  to 
learn  how  the  work  was  progressing. 

The  house  stands  on  the  crest  of  a 
wooded  ridge,  its  white  paint  gleaming 
through  the  tall  trees,  quite  the  picture 
of  what  Northern  fans  believe  a  Southern 
mansion  to  be.  Underneath  its  pillared 
portico,  one  could  set  down  the  small  East 
Tupelo  house  where  Elvis  spent  his  child- 
hood years — and  have  room  left  over.  To 
the  side  of  this  porch,  Elvis  has  built  a 
huge  kidney-shaped  swimming  pool,  to- 
gether with  cabanas  for  his  guests.  On 
summer  nights  when  parties  are  in 
progress,  the  blue-green  light  reflected 
from  the  pool  outlines  the  hill  and  sil- 
houettes the  trees,  a  beacon  for  those  who 
must  view   from  afar. 

And  "afar"  is  the  spot  from  which  most 
people  must  view  Elvis's  new  elegance. 
Reporters  and  photographers,  as  well  as 
fans,  are  barred.  This  ban  has  included 
one  newsman  who  numbers  himself  among 
the  Presley  "discoverers."  He  is  said  to 
have  presented  himself  at  the  gates  one 
evening,  only  to  find  that  in  the  court 
of  the  rock  'n'  roll  king  he  was  suddenly 
persona  non  grata. 

Attempting  to  secure  an  accurate  de- 
scription of  the  furnishings  is  akin  to 
seeking  information  on  the  latest  atomic 
device.  Decorator  George  Golden,  whom 
some  Memphis  clients  describe  as  "a 
genius  with  modern  design,"  has  been 
pledged  to  secrecy.  Friends,  too,  are  ex- 
pected to  hold  their  tongues.  Some 
people,  remembering  the  way  Elvis 
originally  shocked  the  New  York  press 
by  implying  he  expected  to  be  paid  by 
interviewers,  suggest  a  reason  for  the 
secrecy.  They  predict,  "His  manager  can 


make  money  on  anything.  He'll  sell  the 
exclusive  story  to  some  magazine  for  a 
pretty    penny,   you'll   see." 

This  much  trickles  through  the  Presley 
curtain:  That  splendiferous  red  carpet 
reaches  through  entrance  hall,  drawing 
room,  music  room  and  dining  room.  The 
walls  are  Wedgwood  blue,  the  warm  and 
dusky  shade  which  one  sees  in  antique 
vases.  The  furniture,  in  contemporary 
styling,  harmonizes.  In  the  drawing  room, 
upholstery  is  in  white  and  a  blue  which 
matches  the  walls.  The  dining  room  is  in 
black,  white  and  gold. 

Elvis,  who  once  used  the  wages  earned 
at  a  tool  factory  to  make  a  down  payment 
on  his  first  plain  little  piano,  now  has,  in 
his  music  room,  one  especially  finished 
in  white  and  gold. 

The  party  rooms  of  the  house  are 
located  in  the  basement,  where  Elvis  has 
installed  a  hi-fi  set  which  is  the  envy 
of  all  his  musical  friends.  For  those  who 
like  games  of  skill,  there  is  a  fine  billiard 
table.  A  twenty-foot  sofa  is  fronted  by 
a  kidney-shaped  coffee  table,  eight  feet 
long,  mounted  on  cross  box  stretchers  and 
decorated  with  the  opening  bars  of  Elvis's 
hit  record,  "All  Shook  Up."  The  notes 
are  executed  in  bright  plastic. 

The  lushest  room  of  the  house,  accord- 
ing to  those  few  visitors  who  will  talk, 
is  Elvis's  own  bedroom.  Walls,  drapes 
and  bedspread  are  royal  blue.  The  carpet 
is  white  nylon,  an  inch-and-a-half  thick. 
The  bed  itself  makes  anything  Napoleon 
dreamed,  up  seem  as  simple  as  a  do-it- 
yourself  project.  The  frame  and  mat- 
tress are  eight  feet  by  eight  feet,  but  the 
white  tufted  leather  headboard  stretches 
a  magnificent  twelve  feet,  with  night 
tables  attached  to  either  side.  Built  into 
this  imposing  structure  is  an  electronic 
switch  box  which  controls  every  lock  in 
the  house.  Should  Elvis  choose,  he  can 
open  his  front  gate  without  ever  lift- 
ing his  head  from  the  pillow. 

The  bathroom,  too,  causes  exclamations. 
Among  its  fancier  details  is  a  carpet  of 
mouton   fur. 

Graceland,  since  Elvis  moved  in,  has 
become  a  magnet  which  draws  his  fans 
from  all  over  the  world.  In  one  four-hour 
period  on  a  summer  Saturday,  a  reporter 
took  a  census  and  found  that  they  came 
from  eighty-eight  cities  and  towns  in 
twenty-three  states — plus  Thailand,  Hawaii 
and  Canada.  For  all  their  journeying, 
they  see  precious  little,  because  one  of 
the  first  things  Elvis  did  was  to  order 
the  construction  of  a  high  stone  fence, 
jagged  at  the  top  to  discourage  climbers. 
It  is  reputed  to  have  cost  him  $20,000,  but 
one  sharp-tongued  observer  thought  it 
totally  bereft  of  architectural  beauty. 
"Looks  like  the  wall  of  a  prison,"  was  his 
comment. 

The  high  iron  gates,  decorated  with 
guitars,  afford  a  view  up  the  long  and 
winding  drive.  They  also  constitute  a 
traffic  hazard — because  motorists  slow 
down  to  peer  through  them. 

How  to  penetrate  the  sacrosanct  pre- 
cincts of  Graceland  has  stimulated  the 
imagination  of  many  a  teenager.  Naturally, 
as  the  Presley  curtain  draws  tighter,  the 
fans  grow  more  curious  and  more  de- 
termined, pitting  their  ingenuity  against 
the  security  service  provided  by  two  of 
Mrs.  Presley's  brothers,  Travis  and  Ed 
Smith.  Uncle  Travis  guards  the  gate  from 
early  morning  until  six  P.M.  Uncle  Ed 
then  takes  the  night  shift. 

Uncle  Travis  has  become  quite  a  pho- 
tographer. He  will  oblige  a  tourist  by 
accepting  a  camera  which  is  thrust 
through  the  bars  and  into  his  hands,  drive 
up  to  a  vantage  point  and  snap  a  pic- 
ture of  the  house.  It's  when  they  get  past 


his  vigilant  eye  that  he  worries.  "Elvis 
blows  his  top  when  I  let  one  get  through," 
he  admits. 

Two  who  managed  this  difficult  maneu- 
ver did  so  under  cover  of  a  rainstorm. 
Uncle  Travis  spotted  the  two  drenched 
girls  running  up  the  drive,  lickety  split, 
and  took  after  them  in  his  car.  They 
reached  the  house  and  were  leaning  on 
the  doorbell  by  the  time  he  caught  up. 
They  proved  to  be  lucky,  however.  Elvis 
got  word  of  them,  came  out  on  the  porch, 
chatted  for  about  ten  minutes,  then  posed 
for  a  picture,  his  arms  around  their  soak- 
ing wet  shoulders. 

An  extremely  athletic  young  admirer 
scaled  the  six-foot  barbed-wire-topped 
fence  which  runs  through  the  back  of  the 
property  and  was  discovered  hiding  be- 
tween the  air-conditioning  plants.  Another 
was  pulled  out  from  under  a  Cadillac. 
One  found  back  of  a  bush  was  scared  to 
death.  "Don't  call  the  police,"  she  begged. 
"I'll  never  do  it  again."  Uncle  Travis 
conducts  such  over-ardent  youngsters 
back  to  the  gate  and  lets  them  go. 

Trespassing  took  a  more  serious  aspect, 
the  night  Uncle  Travis  discovered  a  half- 
dozen  boys  trying  to  hoist  the  heavy  cast- 
iron  lawn  furniture  over  the  fence  near 
the  little  house  where  he  lives.  Elvis 
heard  his  shouts,  piled  into  a  car,  dashed 
out  through  a  side  gate  and  chased  them. 
He  forced  their  car  to  the  curb,  but  when 
they  begged  him  to  let  them  go,  he 
agreed. 

His  elders,  however,  thought  this  was 
the  time  to  take  a  stand.  They  called  the 
sheriff's  office.  Deputies,  investigating, 
first  thought  the  marauders  had  escaped. 
Later,  they  were  identified  as  coming 
from  the  neighborhood.  Vernon  and 
Gladys  Presley,  Elvis's  parents,  appeared 
in  court  against  them,  but  when  the  now- 
frightened  kids  pleaded  it  was  just  a 
thoughtless  prank,  they  agreed  to  their 
release — with  a  warning. 

What  effect  has  all  this  had  on  a  young 
man  who,  for  all  his  fame,  is  only  twenty- 
two  years  old?  A  young  man  who  came 
from  a  family  unaccustomed  to  the  con- 
stant glare  of  publicity? 

Among  some  of  his  old  friends,  there  is 
a  deep  sympathy,  an  admiration  for  the 
way  he  has  met  each  challenge,  and 
sometimes  a  gratitude  for  his  favors. 

In  the  sympathetic  group,  you'll  find 
some  of  the  older  men  and  women  who 
helped  him  get  his  start.  If  he  chooses  to 
drop  in  at  their  homes  for  a  visit — 
usually  late  at  night — they  can  be  counted 
on  to  welcome  him,  entertain  him,  and 
never  repeat  any  of  the  conversation. 
Said  one,  "We'd  like  him  to  know  that, 
in  our  home,  he  is  a  welcome  guest,  not 
a  celebrity.  We  want  him  to  feel  that  here, 
he,  too,  is  entitled  to  a  private  life.  Elvis 
is,  and  always  will  be,  our  friend." 

One  who  doesn't  mind  being  quoted  is 
Captain  Fred  Woodward  of  the  Memphis 
police.  He's  been  around  ever  since  sur- 
prised fellow  citizens  of  Memphis  dis- 
covered that  they  had  a  celebrity  in  their 
midst  who  could  create  a  commotion  just 
by  crossing  a  street.  Captain  Woodward 
likes  Elvis.  "We  don't  furnish  Elvis  any 
protection,  officially,"  the  Captain  points 
out,  "except  when  there  is  some  public 
function  where  he  is  supposed  to  ap- 
pear, like  the  Danny  Thomas  benefit  show 
for  St.  Jude's  Hospital,  or  the  Blind  Bene- 
fit football  game  or  the  opening  of  the 
range  where  the  police  department 
teaches  people  to  drive  cars.  Then  he  is 
entitled  to  an  escort,  just  like  anyone 
else." 

Unofficially,  on  off-duty  hours,  however, 
Captain    Woodward    visits    the    Presley 


home  and  sometimes  accompanies  Elvis 
on  minor  excursions.  "Lake  the  time  he 
just  walked  in  at  this  place  where  they 
were  having  a  Cerebral  Palsy  party.  Were 
those  people   thrilled!" 

One  of  Elvis's  most  enjoyable  after- 
noons last  summer  was  spent  aboard  Cap- 
tain Woodward's  cruiser  on  the  Missis- 
sippi. "He  really  got  a  chance  to  relax 
there,"  says  the  Captain.  "Only  time  any- 
one spotted  him  was  when  we  passed 
the  excursion  boat.  Then  it  looked  like 
everyone  made  a  bee  line  for  that  rail. 
We  avoided  it,  coming  back.  We  didn't 
want  to  risk  anyone  crowding  and  falling 
overboard." 

Another  steadfast  friend  is  George  Klein, 
a  classmate  from  Humes  High  School  who 
edited  the  school  paper.  George  subse- 
quently worked  at  a  radio  station,  but 
was  delighted  when  Elvis  invited  him  to 
go  along  to  Hollywood.  "We  stayed  at  the 
best  hotels,  I  saw  how  movies  were  made, 
I  even  had  a  bit  part  in  'Jailhouse  Rock.' 
It's  really  been  an  education,  and  I  have 
Elvis  to  thank  for  it.  This  is  going  to 
be  a  great  background  for  my  own  career 
in  broadcasting.  I've  learned  a  lot." 

There  are  others  who  have  not  been  so 
appreciative.  Singer-actor  Faron  Young, 
who  has  known  Elvis  since  both  ap- 
peared on  small  country -and -Western 
shows  in  the  South,  says  outspokenly, 
"He's  picked  up  a  few  characters  who  just 
sponge  off  him.  One  day,  when  I  heard 
one  of  them  ask  Elvis  for  a  quarter  for  a 
pack  of  cigarettes,  I  guess  I  blew  up.  I 
asked  Elvis  why  he  didn't  get  rid  of  such 
creeps.  It  must  have  registered,  because 
a  few  days  later  I  heard  he  had  sent  the 
guy  packing." 

Undoubtedly,  a  few  old  friends  have 
had  their  feelings  hurt.  Says  one  enter- 
tainer, known  for  his  extreme  shyness, 
"I  bumped  into  Elvis  one  day  and  he 
asked  me  to  call.  I  did,  twice.  The  first 
time,  I  was  told  he  was  sleeping.  The 
second,  I  was  told  he  was  in  conference 
with  his  mother  and  couldn't  be  disturbed. 
That  was  enough  for  me.  If  he  wants  to 
see  me  again,  he  knows  where  I  live." 

Among  Memphis  people  who  are  not  in 
the  immediate  circle,  there  appears  to  be 
a  growing  admiration.  Some,  who  always 
put  the  capital  "S"  in  Society,  volunteer 
a  comment  that  the  Presleys  will  never 
be  admitted  to  certain  clubs— but  they 
also  concede  he  has  not  asked  to  be  in- 
vited. The  young  man  who  has  had  to  cope 
with  plenty  of  gate-crashing  at  his  own 
home  shows  no  indication  of  wishing  to 
do  any  of  his  own. 

At  the  Chamber  of  Commerce,  Gen- 
eral Manager  W.  P.  Brooks  points  out 
that  Memphis  has  always  been  proud  of 
its  singers:  "Kay  Starr,  Snookie  Lanson, 
Marguerite  Piazza  all  came  from  here." 
None  of  them,  however,  has  created  quite 
such  a  flurry  as  Elvis.  "We  get  a  pack 
of  letters  each  week  asking  for  pictures 
and  information.  One  writer  even  asked 
us  for  a  blade  of  grass  from  his  lawn." 

The  Memphis  Press  Scimitar  gave  its 
views  in  an  editorial  headed  "The  Pres- 
leys." Appearing  shortly  after  the  furni- 
ture-stealing incident,  it  read:  "All  good 
wishes  to  Elvis  Presley  as  he  leaves  for 
a  week  or  more  out  of  town. 

"Considering  the  great  strain  placed 
upon  this  youth  and  his  family  by  the 
public,  the  suddenness  of  their  rise  from 
obscurity,  we  feel  that  the  Presleys  have 
conducted  themselves  well.  Seldom  has 
family    solidarity    been    so    spotlighted. 

"It  is  a  real  treat  to  be  able  to  tell, 
from  day  to  day,  not  only  the  quirks  and 
works  of  a  celebrity,  but  of  a  young  man 
and  his  mother  and  dad,  and  his  uncles 
and  cousins,  living  in  a  goldfish  bowl 
while  continuing  to  act  like  what  they 
are— real  Memphians  and  real  Americans." 


OPPORTUNITIES 

for  EVERYBODY 

Publisher's  Classified  Department  (Trademark) 


For  adverthing  rates,  write  to  William  _.  Stewart,  9  South  Clinton  Street,  Chicago  6  (V/om't,  Dec.)  7 


OF  INTEREST  TO  WOMEN 


FREE— BIG  NEW  Wholesale  Catalogl  Up  to  50%  saving  for 
you,  family,  friends  on  nationally-known  gifts,  jewelry,  toys, 
appliances,  Christmas  cards  etc.  Also  make  money  selling 
parttimel  Write:  Evergreen  Studios,  Box846-AZ,  Chicago  42. 


$500  FOR  YOUR  Child's  Picture  paid  by  advertisers.  Send 
one  small  photo  (All  ages).  Returned,  Print  child's  parents' 
name,  address  on  back.  Spotlite,  8346-P-12  Beverly,  Holly- 

wood,  California. 

$500  FOR  YOUR  child's  photo,  all  ages,  if  used  for  advertising. 
Send  photo  for  approval.  Returned  two  weeks.  Advertisers, 

6000-YL  Sunset,  Hollywood  28,  California. 

DRESSES  24c;  SHOES  39c;  Men's  suits  $4.95;  trousers 
$1.20.  Better  used  clothing.  Free  Catalog.  Transworld  164-A 

Christopher,  Brooklyn  12,  N.Y. 

MAKE  MONEY  SEWING  At  Home,  part  or  full  time.  We 
instruct  No  selling.  Free  details:  Jud-San,  Box  2107,  Dept. 

15-M,  Cleveland  8,  Ohio. 

$200.  MONTHLY  POSSIBLE.  Sewing  Babywearl  No  house 
selling!  Send  stamped,  addressed  envelope.  Cuties,  Warsaw  1, 

Indiana. 

WIVES— INCREASE  YOUR  family  income  sewing  babywear 

for  stores.  Write  Tiny-Tot,  Galiipolis  19,  Ohio. 

EARN  SPARETIME  CASH  Mailing  Advertising  Literature. 

Glenway,  Box  6568,  Cleveland  1,  Ohio. 

SEW  OUR  READY  cut  aprons  at  home,  spare  time,  Easy, 

profitable.  Hanky  Aprons,  Caldwell  3,  Ark. 

EARN  $50  FAST  sewing  precut  products.  Information  3c. 

Thompson's,  Loganville,  Wisconsin. 

MAKE  MONEY  CLIPPING  Newspaper  Items  For  Publishers! 

Newscraft,  PW-983-E.  Main,  Columbus  5,  Ohio. 

$200.  MONTHLY  REPORTED,  preparing  envelopes.  Reveal- 
ing  method,  25c.  Economy,  Box  1686-W,  Clearwater,  Florida. 
MONEY,  TYPING— SEWINGI  Details  Freel  Details  Freel 

Edwards,  3912-W,  12th,  Pes  Moines  13,  Iowa. 

$40.00  WEEKLY  MAKING  Lovely  Roses.  Easy,  Write  Studio 

Company,  Greenville  10,  Pa. 

GOOD  PAY,  MAKING  Flowers.  Free  Sample.  Boycan  Indus- 

tries,  Sharon  44,  Penna. 

EDUCATIONAL  OPPORTUNITIES 

SHORT  STORY,  ARTICLE  Writing.  Big  opportunities  for 
new  writers.  Free  book  tells  how  to  learn  at  home  for  part  or 
full  time  income.  Palmer  Institute  of  Authorship,  Desk  PCW- 

127,  1680  N.  Sycamore,  Hollywood,  Calif. 

COMPLETE  YOUR  HIGH  School  at  home  in  spare  time 
with  60-year-old  school.  Texts  furnished.  No  classes.  Diploma. 
Information   booklet  free.   American   School,    Dept.   X974, 

Drexel  at  58th,  Chicago  37-  Illinois. 

FINISH  HIGH  SCHOOL  at  home,  spare  time.  No  classes. 
Diploma  awarded.  Write  for  Free  catalog.  Wayne  School, 

Catalog  HCH-50,  2527  Sheffield,  Chicago  14. 

HIGH  SCHOOL  DIPLOMA  at  home.  Licensed  teachers, 
Approved  materials.  Southern  States  Academy,  Station  E-1. 

Atlanta,  Georgia. 

LEARN  WHILE  ASLEEPI  Detailsfree.  Research  Association, 

Box  610-WP,  Omaha. 

IOANS  BY  MAIL 

BORROW  $50  to  $500.  Employed  men  and  women  over  25, 
eligible.  Confidential— no  co-signers— no  inquiries  of  employ- 
ers or  friends.  Repay  in  monthly  payments  to  fit  your  income. 
Supervised  by  State  of  Nebraska.  Loan  application  sent  free 
in  plain  envelope.  Give  occupation.  American  Loan  Plan, 

City  National  Bldg.,  Dept.  WD-12,  Omaha,  Nebraska. 

PAY  YOUR  BILLS  Now.  Borrow  $100  to  $600  Cash  by  mail. 
Easy,  quick,  private.  Repay  in  small  monthly  installments 
over  20  months.  Your  payments  may  run  J^  less  than  now; 
have  money  left  over  to  spend.  Loan  Order  Blank  mailed  Free 
in  plain  envelope.  Advise  amount  needed.  State  Finance  Co., 

323  Securities  Bldg.,  Dept.  U-69,  Omaha  2,  Nebraska. 

BORROW  BY  MAIL.  $100-$600.  Anywhere.  Air  Mail  Service. 
Postal  Finance,  200  Keeline  Building,  Dept.  #653X,  Omaha  2, 

Nebraska. 

MISCELLANEOUS 

NATIONALLY  ADVERTISED  MERCHANDISE  Wholesale 
Giant  Catalog.  Send  Postcard:  Valmart,  Whippany  15,  N.J. 


OLD   COINS  &  MONEY  WANTED 

$4,000.00  for  1913  Liberty  Head  Nickel.  Uncirculated  Dollars 
1804  to  1839,  1893-S,  1895-P,  1903-O  pay  $100.00-$5,000.00. 
Certain  dates— Small  Cents  before  1915— pay  up  to  $325.00; 
Dimes,  before  1917— $2,000.00;  Quarters  before  1924— 
$1,000.00;  Half  Dollars  before  1905— $1,000,000;  2c  pieces— 
$70.00;  3c  pieces— $90.00;  Halfdimes— $500.00.  Hundreds  of 
others  worth  $10.00-$1 ,000.00.  Canadian  Coins— 1921— 5c 
Silver,  $50.00.  1875  Quarters— $50.00.  1 921 —50c— $200.00. 
Wanted— 20c  Pieces,  Gold  Coins,  Paper  Money,  etc.  Our 
Large  Illustrated  Guarantee  Buying— Selling  Catalogue,  Giv- 
ing Complete  Allcoin  Information— Send  $1.00.  Purchase 
Catalogue  before  sending  coins.  Worthycoin  Corporation, 
Leaders  Numismatic  Quotations,  K-453-C,  Boston  8,  Mass. 
ONE  MILLION  DOLLARS  Confederate  Money  in  $10's, 
$20's,  $50's,  $100's,  etc.  Only  $2.98.  Limit  Four  Million  For 
Only    $10.00.    Best    Values    Company,    Dept.    0M-53,    401 

Market  Street,  Newark,  New  Jersey. 

WE  BUY  ALL  rare  coins.  Complete  catalogue  25c.  Fairview, 

Box  1116-PC,  New  York  City  8. 

$100.00  FOR  CERTAIN  pennies.  Booklet  listing  prices,  25c. 

Lincoln  Coins,  D-76,  Glendale,  Arizona. 

WE  PURCHASE  INDIANHEAD  pennies.  Complete  allcoin 
catalogue  25c.  Magnacoins,  Box  61-TI,  Whitestone  57,  N.Y. 

MONEY  MAKING   OPPORTUNITIES 

OPERATE  RESTAURANT  OR  diner.  Free  booklet  reveals 

plan.  Write  Restaurant  Arts,  512-MO,  Fremont,  Ohio. 

EXTRA  CHRISTMAS  CASH,  Additional  Income.  Supplies 
$1.00,  Refundable.  Suco,  324  South  Third  Street,  Minneapo- 

lis  15,  Minnesota. 

GUARANTEED  HOMEWORK!  IMMEDIATE  Commis- 
sions! Free  Outfitsl  Hirsch,  1301-12  Hoe,  New  York  City  59. 
$25  WEEKLY  POSSIBLE,  sparetime,  preparing  mailings  for 

advertisers.  Temple  Co.,  Muncie  2,  Indiana. 

MEN,  WOMEN,  EARN  Extra  Cash,  Preparing  Advertising 
Postcards.  Langdons,  Box-41107W,  Los  Angeles  41,  Calif. 
MAKE  YOUR  TYPEWRITER   Earn   Money.  Send   $1.00. 

Hughes,  7004  Diversey,  Chicago  35. 

HOMEWORKERS    WANTED    PAINTING    Novelties.    No 

Selling.  IM.  Roland,  Vincentown  1,  N.J. 

EARN  EXTRA  MONEY  Sparetime,  For  Information,  Write 

Hylite,  1472-W  Broadway,  New  York  36. 

EXTRA  MONEY  PREPARING,  mailing  literature.  Tom,  1305 

N.  Western,  Chicago  22. 

$35  WEEKLY  PREPARING  envelopes.  Instructions  $1.  Re- 
fundable. Adservice.  Spring  Valley  151,  New  York. 

MAKE  MONEY  PREPARING  evelopesl  Literature  explain- 

ing  free.  Cove,  Box  768-E,  Largo,  Florida. 

HELP  &  AGENTS  WANTED 

BEAUTY  DEMONSTRATORS— TO  $5.00  hour  demonstrat- 
ing Famous  Hollywood  Cosmetics,  your  neighborhood.  For 
free  samples,  details,  write  Studio  Girl,  Dept.  16712C,  Glen- 

dale,  Calif. 

HOMEWORKERS:  ASSEMBLE  HANDLACED  Precut  moc- 
casins and  handbags.  Good  earnings.  California  Handicrafts, 

Los  Angeles  46-B,  California. 

MAKE  MONEY  AT  Home  Assembling  Our  Items.  No  Tools, 
Selling  or  Experience  Necessary.  Lee  Mfg.  8507-W  3rd,  Los 

Angeles  48,  California.  

EARN  EXTRA  MONEY  selling  Advertising  Book  Matches. 
Free  sample  kit  furnished.  Matchcorp,  Dept  WP-44,  Chicago 

32,  Illinois. 

60%  PROFIT  COSMETICS  $25  day  up.  Hire  others.  Samples, 
details.  Studio  Girl-Hollywood,  Glendale,  Calif.,  Dept  16712H. 

FOREIGN  *  U.S.A.  JOB  LISTINGS 

FREE  INFORMATION:  EARN  High  pay.  All  trades.  Foreign 
and  USA  Job  Opportunities.  Travel  paid.  Applications,  Write 
Dept.  61 B  National  Employment  Information,  1020  Broad, 

Newark,  N.J. 

AMERICAN,  OVERSEAS  JOBS.  High  Pay,  Men,  Women. 
Transportation  Paid.  Free  Information.  Transworld,  200W 

West  34th  St.,  New  York  1. 

HOME  SEWERS  OPPORTUNITIES 

SEW  BEAUTIFUL  FELT  Novelties.  Write  enclosing  stamp  for 
working  details.  Liebig  Industries,  Beaver  Dam  5,  Wisconsin. 


into  DOLLARS! 

NEW  songwriters,  poets  share  $33  millions 
yearly.  Songs  Composed,  PUBLISHED, 

Promoted.  Appraisal,  info  FREE  from... 

NORDYKE     Music     Publishers 
6000  Sunset,  HOLLYWOOD  286,   Calif. 


SHORTHAND 

Famous  SPEED  WRITING  shorthand.  120 
words  per  minute.  No  symbols;  no  machines. 
Uses  ABC's.  Easiest  to  learn,  write,  tran- 
scribe. Lowest  cost.  Over  350,000  graduates, 
■.Typing'  available.  35th  year.  Schools  in 
Pover  400  cities.  Write  for  FREE  booklet  to: 


Dept.  312-7 
55   W.    42   St.,    N.   Y.   36 


The  Greatest  1<  SALEf  vf  Ever  Held 


RPROMINA 


STAMP  COLLECTORS  !  !        "^8>> 


BUY     THESE 
$2.95)     FOR 

1.  AUSTRIA    SCHUBERT    COMPL. 

2.  GERMANY    FLOWER    ISSUE 

3.  MONTENEGRO    CLASSIC    COMPL. 

4.  LIBERIA  OLYMPIC    SET  COMPL. 

5.  BOLIVIA    AIRPOST    ISSUE 

6.  SCARCE   SPAIN    COLOR    ERROR 

7.  SET   OF   5    DRESDEN    PAINTINGS 

8.  GERMANY    HUMAN    RIGHTS 

9.  ROMANIA    BICYCLE    SET   CPL. 
10.  NEW    RED   CROSS   SET   COMPL. 


20     STAMP     ISSUES     (REG. 
THE    SALE    PRICE    OF    $1.00 

11.  GERMANY    ESSAY  WORTH   SVS 

12.  BRAZIL    LEPER    ISSUE    COMPL. 

13.  CZECH     MOTORCYCLE    COMPL. 

14.  ROMANIA    PHANTOM    SET   CPL. 

15.  SET   OF  SE-TENANT    PAIRS 
1G.  SCHUMANN    MUSIC    ERROR 

17.  JUGO.    PATRIOTS    6   VALS.    CPL. 

18.  STAMP    DAY    ISSUE  COMPLETE 

19.  NEW  GIANT  BOY   SCOUT    ISSUE 

20.  GERMAN   MINING    ISSUE 


E222IEESmraE 


n>««' 


>m 


AND   FOR   ONLY    lc   MORE   YOU   GET: 

One  lot  of  better-grade  high  values  &  pictorials  only 
—with  the  Scott  Standard  catalog  value  of  over  $4.00 !  1 

STAMPEX  CO.,  BOX  47-ETV,  WHITE  PLAINS,  N.  Y, 


Rush  you*  SI,  plus  10, 
for  both  lots  TODAY 
since  supplies  are  lim- 
ited. This  special  offer 
is  made  to  introduce  our 
Bargain  Approval  Offers 
to  New  Adult  Applicants. 
KXTRA:  48-Page  Stamp 
Dictionary  and  Guid* 
n    luae/l    FREE 


hy  Do  Women  Hate  to  Be  Called  Housewives? 


(Continued  from  page  42) 
own  qualifications  for  a  currently  down- 
graded occupation  which  she  herself 
believes  should  be  at  the  top  of  any 
woman's  career  list.  Arlene  is  the  wife 
of  actor-director-producer  Martin  Gabel. 
She  is  the  mother  of  ten-year-old  Peter 
Gabel.  And  she  takes  these  "most  impor- 
tant" jobs  most  seriously.  "I  have  break- 
fast with  my  child  every  morning,"  says 
Arlene.  "I  am  almost  always  there  when 
he  gets  home  from  school.  We  always 
have  dinner  together.  We  take  vacations 
together.  We  play  tennis  together.  We 
are  baseball  fans,  Martin  and  I,  baseball 
being  Peter's  dish  of  tea.  We  have  com- 
mon interests — and  the  time  to  share 
them." 

The  Gabels  have  an  apartment  in  New 
York  and  a  country  house  in  suburban 
Mt.  Kisco.  In  town,  they  have  a  couple 
to  "do"  for  them.  In  the  country  house, 
where  they  spend  every  weekend,  and 
as  much  other  time  as  possible,  there 
is  no  help.  "Up  there,"  Arlene  says,  "I 
do  the  housework  myself.  Roll  up  my 
sleeves  and  get  dinner.  My  husband  and 
son  think  I'm  a  sensational  cook — and, 
after  all,"  she  laughed,  "how  many  people 
do  I  have  to  please?  Did  the  whole  house 
myself,  too — the  interior  decorating,  that 
is.  All  very  country-house  gay,  my 
bedroom  all  red  and  white,  downstairs 
all  orange  and  yellow  and  white,  with 
accents — a  green  chest  here,  a  tiny  green 
Victorian  sofa  there.  When  we  first 
bought  the  house,  my  husband  and  I 
spent  our  weekends  painting.  At  coun- 
try auctions,  we  picked  up  chests  for 
ten  dollars  or  so,  did  them  over,  antiqued 
some  of  them,  marbleized  others,  made 
them  look  pretty  fancy."  Arlene  also 
laid  the  carpet  herself — wall-to-wall,  the 
length  and  breadth  of  the  first  floor. 
("Carpet  squares,  sandalwood  and  white," 
she  explains,  "with  adhesive  on  the  other 
side.   Easy   to  do.") 

"To  me,  'house'  and  'home'  are  almost 
the  most  important  words  in  the  world," 
Arlene  says.  "And  two  of  the  most  beau- 
tiful. And  'housewife'  a  very  good  thing 
to  be  called — for  to  run  a  good  house,  to 
keep  her  family  well-fed,  happy,  healthy 
and  comfortable,  is  the  basic  job  of 
every  woman  in  the  world.  Yet  house- 
wives, and  many  of  them,  do  resent  the 
term  'housewife.'  I  know  they  do,  because 
they    tell    me    so. 

"As  to  why  they  do,  I  just  think  the 
term  'housewife,'  which  has  the  conno- 
tation of  washing  and  ironing  and  cooking 
and  scrubbing  and  putting  up  box-lunch- 
es and  getting  the  kids  off  to  school,  all 
the  things  the  wife  at  home  is  in  charge 
of  and  does — and  should  do,  it's  her  job — 
is  not  quite  as  glorious  as  the  ladies 
would  like  it  to  be!  Nor  as  satisfying  to 
the  ego  as  the  terms  that  refer  to  other 
jobs,  such  as  artist,  actress,  airline  stew- 
ardess and  so  on.  I  think  the  housewife 
feels  that  her  job  doesn't  give  her  an 
identity,  a  place  in  the  world  comparable 
to  that  of  the  career  woman  or  working 
girl.  I  think  it  is  the  lack  of  recognition 
that  irks. 

"I  also  think,"  Arlene  adds,  "that,  while 
being  a  housewife  may  be  her  basic  job, 
it  need  not  be  her  only  job.    I  think  that 
the    housewife    who    refers    to    herself    as 
'just     a     housewife'     is     being     defensive 
because   she   knows   that  being  a   house- 
wife is  not  a  full-time  job,  in  most  cases 
nowadays.     Today,  according  to  statistics, 
three     out     of     every     ten     wives — some 
T    twelve    million    in    all — are    wage-earners 
w    as  well  as  housewives.     Can  it  be  them- 
R    selves,   I   wonder,   that   the   seven    out   of 
ten  who  are  'just  housewives'  resent? 
"Time    was    when    to    be    a    housewife 
72 


was  a  round-the-clock,  full-time  and 
over-time  job.  The  housewife  baked 
her  own  bread,  cake  and  pies.  She  spent 
hours,  and  was  obliged  to  do  so,  over  the 
old  hot  stove.  She  swept  and  scrubbed 
her  floors.  She  did  the  family  wash — 
by  hand.  In  those  days,  one  never,  I  feel 
sure,  heard  a  housewife  refer  to  herself 
as  'just  a  housewife.'  She  was  proud, 
and  rightly  so,  of  the  job  she  did.  And 
of   the   title    it   carried. 

"Now,  with  the  modern  appliances  or 
'electrical  servants,'  as  they're  sometimes 
called — the  dish-washer  and  dryer,  the 
clothes-washing  machine  and  dryer,  the 
mangle,  the  vacuum  cleaner,  the  floor 
waxer  that  virtually  do  a  woman's  work 
for  her  and  certainly  do  cut  house- 
working  time  in  half — with  the  prepared 
cake,  biscuit,  muffin,  pie-crust  and  you- 
name-'em  mixes,  the  frozen  foods,  the 
precooked  heat-and-eat  meals — the  house- 
wife can  use  the  time  she  didn't  have  be- 
fore the  dawn  of  the  Machine  (and 
Mixes)  Age  to  be  a  housewife  and  pretty 
much  anything  else  she  wants  to  be  (or 
do)  besides.  And,  in  my  opinion,  she 
should. 

"If  the  housewife  today  has  a  talent 
of  the  kind  careers  are  made  of,  and  is 
herself  career-minded,  she  can  develop 
the  talent.  If  she  has  no  particular  talent 
or  training,  but  wants  a  job  outside  of 
the  home,  she  can  take  a  course  that 
will  fit  her  for  any  kind  of  a  job  which 


TteXt  THoHt^ 
GARRY  MOORE 

Talks   About  Teenagers'    Problems! 

Also    .    .    .    exclusive    features    on    such 

femme  favorites  as  Eve  Arden, 

Darlene  Gillespie,  Betty  White,  such 

song  sensations  as  Rusty  Draper, 

Sonny  James,  Jerry  Lee  Lewis 

.   .   .   plus   many   others   in   the   January 

TV   RADIO   MIRROR 

at  your  newsstand   December   5 


most  appeals  to  her  or  for  which  she 
feels  best  fitted.  And  she  doesn't  have  to 
be  rich  to  do  it,  either.  My  secretary, 
Muriel  Fleit,  recently  took  a  course  at  the 
YWCA  in,"  Arlene  laughs,  "package- 
tying!  A  six-week  course.  Price,  nine 
dollars.  At  the  Y,  you  can  learn  to  rhumba, 
type,  take  shorthand,  make  hats,  massage, 
bathe  babies,  swim — and,  for  all  I  know, 
skin-dive! 

"If  the  housewife  doesn't  need  a  paying 
job,  or  doesn't  want  to  work  the  nine-to- 
five  shift  required  of  most  employees— but 
still  suffers  from  the  common  malady  of 
'just  housewives,'  which  is  monotony- 
she  can  do  part-time  work.  Social  work 
of  some  sort.  Civic  work.  Neighborhood 
baby-sitting.  Or  there  is  always  a  hospi- 
tal where  she  can  roll  bandages.  (It 
sounds  Pollyanna,  I  know,  but  only  by 
doing  something  for  someone  else  can  we 
reach  self-satisfaction.) 

"I  am  all  for  marriage  and  a  career," 
Arlene  says,  in  an  all-out  tone  of  voice. 
"Or,  if  'career'  seems  too  pretentious  a 
word  for  it,  for  marriage  and  a  job  of 
some  sort  outside  of  the  home.  I  believe 
that  the  woman  who  makes  contacts  of 
her  own,  on  her  own,  can  only  bring 
something  of  value  to  her  marriage — 
open  eyes,  open  heart,  tolerance,  and  an 


understanding  of  people  and  of  how  they 
behave  which  only  being  out  in  the  world 
can  give. 

"Conversely,  I  feel  that  the  woman  who 
is  at  home  alone  with  the  kids  all  day, 
especially  if  she  lives  in  the  suburbs,  feels 
frustrated,  takes  to  fretting,  becomes  sus- 
picious of  her  husband  —  Why  is  he  so 
late?  What  is  he  doing? — which  can  only 
cause  a  lot  of  unhappiness  in  marriage. 

"The  happiest  homes  I  know — and  my 
own  is  one — are  the  homes  in  which  the 
wives  and  mothers  have  interests  other 
than  those  contained  within  their  own 
four  walls.  Mary  Martin  is  an  enor- 
mously happy  girl.  So  is  Phyllis  (Mrs. 
Bennett)  Cerf.  So  is  actress  Kitty  Car- 
lisle, wife  of  playwright  Moss  Hart.  So 
are  most  of  the  wage-earning  wives  I 
know,  whether  they  be  secretaries,  hair- 
dressers, seamstresses  or  Broadway  stars. 

"But  what  of  the  child  of  the  career  or 
working  woman,  people  often  ask.  Doesn't 
he  feel  deprived,  and  'different'  from  the 
other  kids,  because  of  an  absentee 
mother?  To  be  honest  about  it,"  Arlene 
says,  "when  a  child  is  very  small,  I  sus- 
pect he  does  wish  he  had  a  Mom  like  the 
Moms  of  the  other  kids.  He  sees  his  class- 
mates being  picked  up  by  their  mothers 
after  school  and  taken  to  the  park,  or 
wherever — and  he  probably  thinks,  Gee, 
why  not  me,  too?  When  he  is  very  young, 
I  am  pretty  sure  he  does  think  and  say 
exactly  that,"  Arlene  smiles  that  from-the- 
heart  smile  of  hers,  "because  when  Peter 
was  a  very  little  boy,  about  three  years 
old,  he  admonished  me  one  day,  'You  go 
to  too  many  works!' 

"But  for  the  times  I  didn't  pick  Peter 
up  at  school  and  take  him  to  the  park — 
because  I  couldn't — we  would  have  a  spe- 
cial adventure  of  our  own.  A  boat  trip 
around  Manhattan  Island.  A  baseball 
game.  An  afternoon  at  the  movies.  A 
heart-to-heart  talk  at  bedtime.  An  hour 
spent  with  a  child,  the  interest  and  atten- 
tion focused  on  him,  is  more  important, 
to  my  mind,  than  twelve  hours  of  just 
being  with  a  child  around  the  house. 

"I  think  it  pays  off  in  the  end,"  she 
says.  "The  many  times  I — and  Martin, 
too— have  had  to  leave  Peter  are  com- 
pensated for  by  the  fact  that  the  child 
should  realize  he  is  not  always  going  to 
have  someone  there.  And  if  he  is  brought 
up,  as  Peter  is  being  brought  up,  in  an 
atmosphere  of  love  and  mutual  under- 
standing and  compassion  and  individual 
independence,  he  will  be,  as  Peter  is,  a 
very  secure  and   very   happy   child. 

"I  just  don't  believe  there  is  any  valid 
reason,  or  any  excuse,"  Arlene  asserts, 
"for  a  woman  today  to  be  'just  a  house- 
wife.' Even  if  she  hasn't  any  particular 
urge  to  have  a  job,  she  can  develop  her 
own  resources,  extend  her  interests  and 
her  horizons.  Every  town  has  its  clubs 
where  women  can  meet  and  exchange 
ideas.  Garden  clubs.  Book  or  reading 
clubs,  where  they  can  sit  around  and  dis- 
cuss books.  Town  meetings  which  they 
can  attend,  for  the  purpose  of  discussing 
ways  and  means  of  improving  the  com- 
munity. We  women,"  Arlene  laughs,  "tend 
to  be  alibi-prone.  We  'haven't  time'  to  do 
this  or  that  because  we  have  to  put  up 
Junior's  lunch.  How  much  time,  actu- 
ally, does  it  take  to  put  up  Junior's  lunch? 
Face  it.  Face  yourself.  Admit  that  you 
have  enough  time  to  gossip  with  your 
next-door  neighbor — but  not  enough  time 
to  do  your  bit  by  speaking  up  at  town 
meetings  in  order  to  help  improve  the 
community  in  which  you  live. 

"Even  if  the  situation  at  home  is  such 
that  the  housewife  is  unable  to  be  away 
for  any  length  of  time — and  circumstances 
do  alter  cases,  of  course — she  can  still  be 


more  than  'just  a  housewife.'  She  can 
take  time  all  the  time  to  improve  herself. 
She  can  become  familiar,  through  read- 
ing, with  the  great  art  of  the  world,  the 
great  literature  of  the  world — with  the 
great  world,  period.  The  great  world  of 
the  past,  the  great  and  challenging  world 
of  the  future.  If  a  housewife  just  sat 
down  and  read  a  newspaper  every  day, 
that  would  be  a  step  forward.  And,  by 
improving  yourself,  you  are  doing  some- 
thing creative,  too — for,  if  you  yourself 
are  improved,  the  world  is  improved." 

Arlene  is  glad,  she  says,  and  deeply 
grateful  that  she  is  a  housewife  and  a 
career  woman,  as  well.  She  loves  the 
people,  the  many  different  people,  being 
"out  in  the  world"  has  permitted  her  to 
meet  and  know.  She  regrets  the  passing 
of  the  Home  show  "because,  after  three- 
and-a-half  years,  I  miss  the  people  the 
show  afforded  me  the  pleasure  and  privi- 
lege of  working  with.  Goodbyes  I  find 
hard  to  say."  Because  of  her  interest  in 
people,  she  loves  doing  interviews,  such 
as  the  memorable  one  she  did,  shortly 
before  Home  went  off  the  air,  with  poet- 
author  Carl  Sandburg  and  his  wife.  But 
she  plans  to  "ease  into"  some  of  these 
former  features,  such  as  the  interviews, 
which  will  be  easily  adaptable  to  her 
present  show. 

"I  also  like  to  think,"  she  says,  "that 
The  Arlene  Francis  Show  will  be  so  suc- 
cessful that  I  can  'travel  it,'  so  to  speak, 
as  I  did  for  the  Home  program,  when  I 
went  to  Japan,  Holland,  Monaco,  Eng- 
land— and  here  at  home,  all  up  and  down 
the  West  Coast,  Cape  Cod,  Florida,  and 
so  on.  We  were  pioneers — even  before 
Wide,  Wide  World — in  the  travel-for- 
television  department.  We're  not  doing 
the  service  departments,  such  as  we  did 
on  Home,  but  service  is  so  well  done  to- 
day, on  so  many  levels — in  magazines, 
newspapers  and  other  media — that  it  is, 
we  feel,  expendable.  Oh,  I'll  drop  a  few 
household  hints  now  and  then,"  she 
laughs,  "ad  lib  a  bit.  Let  a  new  egg- 
beater  be  born,  I  am  certainly  going  to 
mention  it!  But  mainly  it'll  be  a  gay 
program,  this  variety  show  of  mine,  all  on 
an  entertainment  basis. 

"Dearly  as  I  love  television,  however — 
and  radio  and  the  theater — if,  tomorrow, 
all  three  mediums  were  to  be  wiped 
from  the  face  of  the  earth,  I  would  not 
settle  for  being  'just  a  housewife.'  I 
would  never  be  content  not  to  work — 
and,  preferably,  outside  the  home.  Social 
work  of  some  sort,  perhaps.  Civic  work. 
But,  whether  in  the  home  or  out  of  it, 
I  would  have  to  set  goals  for  myself  in 
certain  definite  lines  of  endeavor'.  A  cer- 
tain number  of  books  to  be  read  in  a  cer- 
tain length  of  time.  A  correspondence 
course  of  some  kind.  Learn  a  language, 
perhaps.  Or  why  not  two  languages? 

"I  would  hope  to  live  my  life  as  fully 
as  Mrs.  Leonard  Lyons  (wife  of  the  col- 
umnist), who  writes,  makes  speeches  at 
school,  plays  baseball  with  her  husband 
and  four  sons,  is  active  in  every  type  of 
civic  work,  is  aware  of — and  fascinated 
by — everything  that  goes  on  in  the  world. 
Extremely  witty  and  bright,  Mrs.  Lyons — 
who  doesn't  hold  a  wage-earning  job  or 
have  a  career  as  such — would  certainly 
list  her  occupation  as  that  of  'housewife.' 
And  housewife  she  is.  'Just  a  housewife' 
she  is  not,"  Arlene  laughs. 

"Nor  would  I  be,  even  if  I  were  never 
to  face  a  microphone  again.  Nor  do  you 
need  to  be,  Mrs.  Average  American 
Housewife,  wherever  you  are.  And  don't, 
please,  tell  me  otherwise.  For,  if  any- 
one tells  me  they  can't  do  anything,  I 
spend  my  time  talking  them  out  of  it," 
says  Arlene  Francis,  who  knows  every 
housewife  should  be  proud  and  happy 
— even   if   she   has   to    be    talked    into    it. 


WONDER  CREAM 


WORKS  LIKE  MAGIC  TO  DISPOSE  OF: 

•  PIMPLES  •   BLACKHEADS  •  WRINKLES 

•  FRECKLES  •   LIVER  SPOTS  •   BRUISE  MARKS 

EXCITING  LOVE  CAN  BE  YOURS— with  a  lovely  skin! 

At  last— there's  no  need  to  be  sad  and  lonely  because  of  dark,  sallow  skin,  full  of  blotches, 
freckles,  pimples,  etc.  Doctors  recommend  new  PROVEN  Whitex  to  actually  fade  out  ugly 
blemishes.  Whitex  DOES  NOT  cover  up.  It  KILLS  BACTERIA  on  contact  .  .  .  bleaches  your 
skin  evenly  WITHOUT  peeling.  DRAWS  OUT  DIRT  FROM  THE  PORES  .  .  .  brings  it  to  the 
surface  for  cleansing.  No  matter  what  the  condition  of  your  skin — even  if  "old-fashioned" 
preparations     have     failed    —    we'll 

SEND   NO  MONEY 


GUARANTEE  Whitex.  Get  Whitex 
for  a  LOVELY,  SMOOTH,  YOUNG- 
LOOKING    SKIN,    NOW! 

HERE'S   PROOF 

"I  only  used  half  a  jar  of  Whitex. 
Liver  Spots  are  fading  away.  Brown 
spots  on  hands  and  arms  are  prac- 
tically gone.  I've  used  several  brands 
of  cream,  but  Whitex  beats  them  all." 
E.H.,  Albuquerque,  N.M. 

"I  had  one  jar  of  Whitex  and  it  is 
really,  good."   O.L.,   Chicago,    III. 

"A  friend  used  Whitex.  It  was  won- 
derful. Send  me  a  jar  to  take  spots  off 
my  face."  Mrs.  N.L.,  Cheraw,  S.  C. 


I 


10-day 

NO   RISK 

Trial  Coupon 


Albrite  Specialty  Co.,  Dept.  T2RMI 
Box  43,  Cincinnati  18,  Ohio 

Rush  $3.  jar  of  WHITEX.  I'll  pay  postman  $3.  plus  de- 
livery charges  upon  arrival.  If  not  excited  with  results,  I'll 
return  unused  portion  in  10  days  and  get  my  money  back. 

D  Special  .  .  .  send  2  jars  for  only  $5.00. 


CITY ZONE.  .  .  .STA' 

SAVE!  Enclose  cost  of  Whitex  with  order 
— and   we'll  pay   postage. 


LEG    SUFFERERS 


FREE 

BOOKLET 


0Why  continue  to  suffer  without  attempt- 
ing to  do  something?  Write  today  for  New 
Booklet— "THE  LIEPE  METHODS  FOR 
HOME  USE."  It  tells  about  Varicose 
Ulcers  and  Open  Leg  Sores.  Liepe  Methods 
used  while  you  walk.  More  than  60  years  ol 
success.  Praised  and  en- 
dorsed by  multitudes. 

LIEPE  METHODS,  3250  N.  Green  Bay  Ave., I 
Dept.  .,  -,;.      Milwaukee   12,   Wisconsin! 


SAVE  UP  TO  50%  AND  MORE 


Diamonds  from  Estates,  Banks,  Unredeemed  Pledges 


GENUINE. 


OUT  OF 
PAWN 


'ng».  Sold  with  o  written  iron- 
clod  money  bock  guarontee 
Over     100.000    satisfied    cus- 

Bcrman's  '°m*"  b°u9h*  ''-•"* 

.         *""  ""*"    '  '-am  Bermons.  Our  reference 

Diamond  Loan  Bank  zzz&i££  ~  ** 

Dept.  TS  —  BERMAN  8100.,  BALTIMORE  I.  MO. 


BLONDES 


In  just  6  short  weeks— and  with  the  help  of  my  GOLDEN  BLONDE 
HAIR— I  captured  my  guy  ...  for  good.  I  wouldn't  say  it  was 
ENTIRELY  the  result  of  my  II -minute  BLONDEX  Beauty  Bath,  but 
that  shining,  radiant  color  surely  attracted  him  and  held  Mm,  too. 
BLONDEX,  the  new  "lotion"  shampoo,  specially  for  blondes,  is 
made  at  home  FRESH  as  ybu  need  it.  Quickly  whipping  into  a 
creamy,  billowy  lather,  Blondex  instantly  removes  the  dull,  dingy 
film  that  makes  hair  dark,  old-looking,  brings  out  light,  lustrous 
shine  and  sparkling  highlights  men  love.  Get  BLONDEX  today  at 
I0£,  drug  or  department  stores. 


500  Milds  Photo 


Thousands  spent  yearly  by  advertisers  for  chil- 
dren's photos  for  magazine  ads,  calendars,  etc. 
Hundreds  selected  monthly.  Up  to  $500  paid. 
Ages  2  mos.  to  20  yrs.  Rush  ONE  small  photo 
for  approval.  Print  child's  and  mother's  name, 
address  on  back.  Returned  2  weeks  with  report. 
NO  OBLIGATION. 

Hollywood  Spotlite,  Dept.  AM 

8346    Beverly   Blvd.,    Hollywood,    Calif. 


FREE  Trial  Offer 
for  PSORIASIS 

We  are  so  sure  MERISAN,  the  amazing  new  formula  for 
PSORIASIS,  will  help  you  that  we  will  send  you  a  $3.00 
jar  of  MERISAN  on  10  day  FREE  Trial  Offer.  No  mat- 
ter how  long  you've  suffered  or  how  aggravated  your 
case  may  be — try  this  newest,  guaranteed  medical  dis- 
covery for  just  10  days.  If,  after  10  days,  you  feel 
MERISAN  has  helped  you,  just  send  us  $3.00  for  the 
jar.  You  have  everything  to  gain — nothing  to  lose.  Case 
after  case  reports  faster  relief.  MERISAN  tends  to  re- 
move scaly  crusts  on  outer  skin  layer,  helping  natural 
healing  of  spots.  Non-greasy,  non-toxic.  Will  not  stain 
clothes  or  bedding.  Thrill  to  the  joy  of  a  clear  skin. 
Simply  send  name,  address  and  references  for  10  days 
FREE  Trial  Offer.  $3.00  size  MERISAN  sent  FREE  and 
postpaid  in  plain  wrapper.  Hurry!  Write  today! 
MERISAN  CO.,  Box  1908,  Dept.  154-L,  Birmingham,  Ala. 


What  Do  3  Out  of  4 

Doctors  Recommend 

to  Relieve  Pain? 

A  survey  shows  3  out  of  4  doctors  recommend  the 
famous  ingredients  of  Anacin  Tablets  to  relieve  pain 
of  headache,  neuritis  and  neuralgia.  Here's  why 
Anacin®  gives  you  better  total  effect  in  relieving 
pain  than  aspirin  or  any  buffered  aspirin : 

B^P-  ACTS  INSTANTLY:  Anacin  goes  to  work  instantly. 
Brings  fast  relief  to  source  of  your  pain. 

Wm^-  MORE  EFFECTIVE:  Anacin  is  like  a  doctor's  pre- 
scription.  That  is,  Anacin  contains  not  one  bat 
a  combination  of  effective,  medically  proven  in- 
gredients. 

■■^  SAFER:  Anacin  simply  can  not  upset  your  stomach. 

■■^  LESSENS  TENSION:  Anacin  also  reduces  nervous 
tension,  leaves  you  relaxed,  feeling  fine  after  pain 
goes.  Buy  Anacin  today. 


73 


Lady  Luck  Pitched  a  Curve 


(Continued  from  page  36) 
made    it    through    all    these    seven    lean 
years  if  it  hadn't  been  for  Mary— and  I 
would  never  have  met  Mary  if  I  hadn't 
first  made  her  mad  at  me." 

It  happened  in  Tallahassee,  Florida,  on 
a  June  night  in  1950  when  the  game  of 
the  Tallahassee  Pirates  (farm  club  of 
the  Pittsburgh  Pirates)  was  rained  out. 
"But  the  rain  didn't  stop  the  girls'  soft- 
ball  league  from  playing,"  Danny  recalls. 
"We  saw  the  lights  on  in  their  stadium, 
so  four  of  us  decided  it  would  be  more 
fun  to  watch  the  girls  than  to  go  to  a 
movie." 

He  was  Danny  Costello,  southpaw 
pitcher  then,  and  already  the  hard-luck 
kid.  Born  in  Jersey  City,  in  the  "little 
Italy"  section,  he  grew  up  with  baseball 
in  his  blood.  When  Danny  was  seven,  his 
mother,  Jean  Costello,  married  Michael 
Lorello,  who  is  now  a  labor  arbiter  for 
the  International  Hod  Carriers  Union. 
"My  stepfather  is  the  greatest  guy  that 
ever  lived,"  says  Danny,  "and  he  sure 
could  play  ball.  He  was  one  of  the  best 
natural  hitters  ever  to  come  out  of  Jersey. 
People  still  talk  about  the  day  he  belted 
a  ball  five  hundred  feet." 

Mike  passed  his  baseball  lore  on  to 
Jean's  small  sons,  Frank  and  Danny.  By 
the  time  Danny  was  a  sophomore  in  high 
school,  professional  baseball  contracts 
were  being  offered  him.  He  signed  with 
the  Pittsburgh  Pirates  and  everyone 
thought  he  was  headed  straight  for  the 
majors. 

He  was  warming  up,  playing  in  one  of 
the  Pirate's  farm  clubs  when  Lady  Luck 
pitched  the  first  of  many  fast  curves. 
That  first  one  wasn't  so  bad.  It  even  had 
a  few  advantages.  The  Army  tagged 
Danny  for  military  service  and  put  him 
into  the  Medical  Corps.  As  an  operating- 
room  technician,  he  assisted  at  eighty 
operations.  He  also  took  the  special  study 
course  the  Army  offered  and  received  his 
high-school   diploma. 

The  second  curve  was  a  heartbreaker. 
Danny  calls  it  "one  of  the  freak  accidents 
of  baseball."  The  Pirates  again  were  ro- 
tating him  through  their  farm  clubs,  when 
Danny  broke  his  arm.  "I  pitched  so  hard 
I  cracked  the  bone  half  way  through.  It 
hurt,  but  I  played  out  the  season."  An 
operation  the  following  winter  disclosed 
that  the  bone  had  splintered.  Danny,  in- 
stead of  being  advanced  to  big-league 
ball,  was  sent  back  to  the  Tallahassee 
Pirates  to  recover  from  the  injury. 

JJanny's  loss  was  the  Tallahassee  fans' 
gain — particularly  a  certain  feminine  fan 
named  Mary  TruHt  Peacock. 

Danny  spotted  her  the  moment  he  and 
his  teammates  entered  the  park  where  the 
girls  were  playing  softball.  "There  she 
is,  guys,"  he  called  out.  "There's  our 
blonde.  The  one  that  always  sits  in  the 
box  seats  at  our  games.  Let's  sit  over 
there." 

They  clattered  through  the  half-empty 
grandstand  to  the  bleachers  back  of  third 
base  and,  with  all  that  fiendish  glee 
usually  reserved  for  kid  brothers,  they 
immediately  let  the  women's  softball 
league — and  particularly  Mary  Truitt  Pea- 
cock— know  the  Pirates  were  in  the  stand. 
If  a  ball  came  within  fifty  feet  of  her, 
they  yelled,  "Get  a  washtub." 

The  dirty  look  Mary  gave  them  inspired 
Danny  to  new  deviltry.  Just  as  a  ball 
sailed  in  her  direction,  Danny  yelled, 
"Hey,  Mary,  you  dropped  an  earring!" 
J  Instinctively,  her  hand  flew  to  her  ear. 
Too  late,  she  remembered  she  never  wore 
earrings  when  playing  ball.  She  missed 
the  ball  by  a  mile. 

"That  was  two  errors  on  Mary  in  one 
74 


inning,"  Danny  recalls.  "She  was  losing 
the  ball  game  single-handed.  But  it  was 
when  she  came  up  to  bat  that  we  really 
let  her  have  the  razz."  As  she  stepped 
to  the  plate,  shouts  of  "Mary's  at  bat — 
there  goes  the  ball  game"  greeted  her 
from  that  all-too-familiar  left  field. 

But  Mary  surprised  them.  Coolly  she 
waited  for  a  pitch  which  she  wanted  and, 
when  she  struck,  she  really  swatted.  Babe 
Ruth  himself  couldn't  have  done  better. 
Straight  and  true,  the  ball  sped  toward 
the  horizon  and  Danny  and  his  pals  were 
on   their   feet   yelling,   "Run,   Mary,   run." 

Today,  Danny  says,  "I  admired  her 
spunk.  I  liked  the  way  she  could  hit  a 
homer  under  pressure.  Right  then,  I  knew 
I  wanted  to  know  that  girl  better.  But  I 
couldn't  admit  it  to  the  fellows.  I  had  to 
tell  them  that  I  wanted  to  stick  around 
until  she  came  from  the  showers.  I  said 
that,  if  I  didn't  apologize,  she  was  liable 
to  come  over  to  our  game  the  next  day 
and  heckle  me  right  off  the  mound." 

Apologize  Danny  did,  and  he  also  in- 
vited her  to  the  Pirates'  game  and  to  din- 
ner after  the  game.  "I'll  never  forget  how 
she  looked,"  Danny  says.  "She  went  into 
the  clubhouse  a  ballplayer,  mud  streaked 
and  breathless.  She  came  out  of  the- 
showers  a  beauty,  with  her  hair  curling 
in  damp  ringlets  across  her  forehead.  She 
was  wearing  the  prettiest  flowered 
dress.  .  .  ." 

The  dinner  and  the  long  walk  home  the 
next  evening  gave  Danny  a  chance  to 
learn  more  about  this  ball-playing  glam- 
our girl.  She  was  a  secretary  by  day,  she 
told  him,  working  for  the  Welfare  Depart- 
ment. She  lived  in  a  red  brick  house  sur- 
rounded by  wide  white  porches.  She  was 
usually  called,  after  the  Southern  fashion, 
not  just  "Mary,"  but  "Mary  Truitt."  Her 
small  brother,  James,  was  called  "Sonny." 
Her  father,  James  Lamar  Peacock,  was  in 
the  shoe  business.  "And  he's  pretty 
strict,"  she  added,  when  Danny  asked  for 
a  date  on  the  following  evening.  "You'd 
better  get  to  the  house  early  so  that  you 
can  meet  Daddy  and  Mother.  I  don't 
know  what  they're  going  to  say  about 
my  going  out  with  somebody  they  don't 
know." 

Danny  took  the  hint.  While  slacks  and 
sports  shirt  were  his  customary  attire,  he 
arrived  in  suit,  white  shirt  and  tie.  "I 
got  all  duded  up,"  he  says,  "but  that 
night  we  really  got  into  trouble." 

Lamar  Peacock  had  been  cordial,  but 
specific.  He  wanted  Danny  to  have  Mary 
Truitt  home  by  midnight.  Danny  agreed. 
But,  unfortunately,  he  wasn't  driving  the 
car.  Another  ball  player  and  his  girl  were 
newly  engaged  and  they  just  couldn't 
bear  to  part,  not  for  many,  many  hours. 
It  was  two  A.M.  when  Danny  brought 
Mary  Truitt  up  the  walk,  and  every  light 
in  the  living  room  was  blazing. 

Danny  recalls:  "I  apologized  and  ex- 
plained. Lamar  listened,  but  I  got  my 
orders.  If  I  wanted  to  see  Mary  again,  I 
was  to  have  her  in  the  house  at  midnight." 
Mary  remembers:  "I  cried  half  the  night. 
I  was  sure  I  would  never  see  Danny 
again." 

But  Danny  had  made  up  his  mind  and 
his  heart.  He  discovered,  too,  that  won- 
derful Southern  institution,  the  porch 
swing.  "We  sure  gave  it  a  workout  that 
summer.  I  took  Lamar  at  his  word,  and, 
if  I  got  Mary  home  a  few  minutes  early, 
we  sat  on  the  porch  until  the  clock  started 
to  strike." 

When  Danny  left  for  Jersey  City  at  the 
end  of  the  season,  they  had  an  under- 
standing. "Danny  never  did  propose  to 
me,"  Mary  says.  "We  iust  knew  that  we 
were  going  to  get  married." 

As  his  love  for  his  stepfather  had  led 


Danny  to  baseball,  so,  too,  had  his  ad- 
miration for  his  Uncle  Jerry  led  to  sing- 
ing. Uncle  Jerry  had  sung  with  a  small 
opera  company  back  in  Italy.  He  had 
never  attempted  to  sing  professionally  in 
the  United  States.  But,  on  feast  days,  when 
the  whole  family  got  together,  Uncle 
Jerry's  arias  provided  the  big  climax. 
Wide-eyed  with  admiration,  Danny,  listen- 
ing, would  think,  Gee,  1  wish  I  could  do 
that,  and  Uncle  Jerry  had  encouraged 
him.  A  neighbor  from  Hoboken,  Frank 
Sinatra,  had  gained  fame  as  a  singer, 
Uncle  Jerry  stated,  and,  in  his  opinion, 
Danny  had  as  good  a  chance  as  Sinatra. 
Danny,  his  ambitions  focused  on  base- 
ball, had  always  thanked  him  with  a 
smile,  "That's  good  to  hear,  but  let's  not 
count  on  it." 

But  suddenly,  that  September  of  1950, 
he  was  counting  on  it,  for  he  had  been 
home  only  a  few  days  when  the  Army 
had  news  for  him.  The  Korean  war  was 
on.  They  needed  every  medic  they  could 
get.  There  was  a  polite  request  that  Danny 
return  to  duty.  There  was  an  implication 
that,  if  he  didn't,  eventually  he  would  be 
conscripted. 

Danny  says,  "I  went  into  a  panic.  I 
knew  that  the  only  thing  in  the  world  that 
I  wanted  was  Mary.  Even  if  we  could 
have  only  a  few  days  together,  I  wanted 
her  to  be  my  wife.  I  didn't  know  how 
I  would  support  her.  If  I  didn't  need  to 
go  back  into  service  right  away,  I'd  sing, 
I'd  carry  bricks,  I'd  dig  sewers,  I'd  take 
any  work  I  could  get,  just  so  that  we 
could  have  that  little   time   together." 

When  he  telephoned  to  ask  if  she  would 
come  North  immediately,  Mary  proved 
that  the  kind  of  spunk  which  let  her  hit 
a  homer,  under  pressure,  on  the  softball 
field,  also  carried  over  into  everyday  liv- 
ing. Away  went  her  plans  for  a  white- 
satin  wedding.  With  family  and  friends 
loving  and  close.  "I  decided  that  a  suit 
which  I  had  would  do,"  says  Mary,  "The 
only  things  I  bought  were  a  new  hat, 
gloves  and  purse." 

Danny  Costello  and  Mary  Truitt  Pea- 
cock were  married  by  a  justice  of  the 
peace  on  September  27,  1950.  Four  weeks 
later,  the  Roman  Catholic  ceremony  took 
place  in  the  rectory  of  the  church.  "We 
got  married  twice,"  says  Danny.  "We 
know  it's  for  keeps." 

Danny's  parents  made  them  welcome 
until  they  found  an  apartment,  which 
Danny  calls  their  hi-lo  special:  "It  took 
a  high  climb  to  get  to  this  attic,  and 
there  was  a  low  ceiling  when  you  got 
there.  I  bumped  my  head  every  time  I 
stood  up — and  my  money  went  down  to 
nothing  every  time  I  paid  the  rent  of 
eighty  dollars  a  month." 

Their  struggle  for  survival  was  intense; 
Danny's  battle  for  bookings  seemed  hope- 
less. "I'd  work  all  day  as  a  laborer,  then 
I'd  get  dressed  up  and  go  across  the 
river  to  Manhattan  to  make  the  rounds  of 
the  agents,  looking  for  bookings.  The 
trouble  with  that  was  that  those  guys, 
too,  went  home  at  five  o'clock.  Or  out  to 
a  club.  Or  somewhere.  Anyhow,  by  the 
time  I  got  there,  they  weren't  in  their 
offices." 

He  grew  discouraged  and  wanted  to 
quit.  "That's  when  I  found  out  what  a 
great  guy  my  dad  really  is.  You  know 
the  way  they  find  an  'angel'  to  put  on  a 
Broadway  show?  Well,  I've  got  an  'angel,' 
too,  and  it's  my  dad.  When  we'd  get  down 
to  nothing,  he'd  always  have  the  money 
for  the  rent  or  whatever  we  needed.  Dad 
believed  in  me.  Just  like  he  once  wanted 
me  to  play  big-league  baseball,  now  he 
wanted  to  see  me  make  it  as  a  singer." 

Danny  knew  he  had  to  make  what  he 


calls  "that  almighty  move."  Encouraged 
by  his  stepfather,  he  quit  his  construction 
job  and  spent  full  time  making  the  rounds. 
At  Johnny  Dell's  office,  he  got  a  hearing. 
And,  while  he  was  singing,  Walter  Bishop, 
a  veteran  ASCAP  songwriter,  wandered 
in  from  the  next  office  and  asked,  "Who's 
the  boy?" — and,  after  hearing  a  few  more 
bars  remarked,  "I  like  that." 

For  Danny,  it  was  the  start  of  a  friend- 
ship. It  also  led  to  Danny's  engagement 
to  sing  with  the  band  on  a  cruise  ship 
bound  for  Nassau.  "I  got  paid  two  hun- 
dred dollars  and  had  the  boat  trip,"  says 
Danny.  "Then  I  didn't  work  again  for  a 
year.  Sure,  they  liked  me.  Some  of  the 
passengers  even  wrote  letters  to  the  line. 
But  it  didn't  do  any  good.  They  had  their 
entertainment  booked  ahead,  twelve 
months  solid." 

They  moved,  according  to  Danny,  "from 
attic  to  cellar,"  just  before  their  son 
Tommy  was  born  on  October  20,  1951. 
"Actually,  it  was  a  nice  little  apartment, 
and  we  had  fun.  There  were  a  lot  of 
other  young  couples  in  the  neighborhood 
and  we  were   all   getting   started." 

Then  the  young  couples  became  the 
yardstick  by  which  Danny  measured  the 
difference  between  show  business  and 
other  business.  As  the  young  men  learned 
their  jobs,  they  got  raises  in  salary.  They 
bought  that  first  car.  As  their  families 
increased,  they  bought  houses  and  moved 
away.  The  young  Costellos  were  the  only 
ones  left  of  the  crowd. 

Danny  wanted  to  quit.  His  stepfather 
replied  to  that  by  giving  him  forty  dol- 
lars to  buy  a  new  suit  and  urging  him  to 
try  one  more  audition.  The  "fours"  proved 
to  be  Danny's  lucky  number — for  that 
audition  was  his  fourth  for  the  old  TV 
show,  Chance  Of  A  Lifetime.  Danny  won 
it,  and  he  won  the  talent  contest  for  five 
consecutive  weeks.  The  prize  was  a  thou- 
sand dollars  a  week.  That  simmered  down 
to  $3,500  take-home  pay. 

Then  Mary  said,  "Let's  invest  it."  Danny 
asked,  "How?"  Mary  said,  "That's  easy. 
In  the  investment  which  will  pay  the 
highest  dividends.    You." 

JVlary  and  Danny  can  still  count  up  the 
extent  of  their  splurge.  Danny  spent  a 
hundred  and  twenty-five  dollars  for  a 
dinner  jacket.  It  was  his  first,  and  classi- 
fied as  working  clothes.  They  moved  from 
their  thirty-five-dollars-a-month  base- 
ment flat  to  one  on  the  third  floor  which 
cost  fifty.  They  bought  a  few  extras. 

The  rest  of  the  money,  as  they  say, 
"went  into  the  act."  Sixteen  hundred 
dollars  for  special  song  arrangements  and 
scripts.  Six  hundred  dollars  for  photos  to 
send  out  to  fan  clubs.  Postage  counted 
up.  Mimeographing  was  needed.  It 
mounted  up.  Before  they  knew  it,  they 
had  only  four  hundred  dollars  left.  "That's 
when  we  thought  we  had  better  get  some- 
thing for  ourselves,"  says  Mary.  "So  we 
bought  a  sleeper  couch.    On  time." 

The  publicity  and  interest  generated  by 
Danny's  appearances  on  Chance  Of  A 
Lifetime  produced  a  flash  flood  of  book- 
ings, but  the  public  forgets  fast.  Danny 
hoped  for  a  recording  contract.  The  rec- 
ord companies  were  having  a  bit  of  a 
famine  themselves.  Danny  was  told  again 
and  again,  "You'll  have  to  record  it  your- 
self. If  you've  got  a  master,  maybe  we'll 
release   it  for  you." 

Danny  checked  costs.  To  set  up  a  priv- 
ate recording  session  would  cost  twenty- 
five-hundred  dollars.  "That's  when  I  got 
out  my  card  from  Laborers'  Union,  Local 
325,  Jersey  City,  showed  it  to  my  dad  and 
announced  I  was  going  back  to  work. 
Show  business  was  fine  for  a  guy  with 
money  back  of  him,  but  I  had  had  en- 
ough." 

MikeLorelloihad  a  different  idea.  "I'll 
fdrhish''th#>money/?i  he-told  Danny/  <- '  I 


With  hopes  high,  Danny  cut  two  sides, 
"My  Own"  and  "We're  Not  Children  Any 
More."  M-G-M  released  it.  Danny  com- 
presses the  outcome  into  a  few  words: 
"It  was  a  bomb." 

Bitter  over  his  disappointments,  Danny 
sought  solace  from  his  friend  Bill  Dana. 
"Dana  and  Wood  were  a  long-time  comedy 
team.  Bill  is  now  a  TV  writer.  I  went  up 
to  his  apartment  looking  for  sympathy." 
He  found,  instead,  what  Danny  calls,  "The 
four  hours'  talk  that  changed  my  life." 

Danny  says  today,  "He  sure  straight- 
ened me  out  in  a  hurry.  I  realized  it 
wasn't  enough  to  have  some  natural  talent. 
I  had  to  polish  it,  work,  learn,  find  out 
what  it  takes  to  get  that  extra  sparkle, 
so  that  I'm  the  guy  they  pick  at  the  audi- 
tions." 

Danny  went  home  to  Mary  and  an- 
nounced his  decision.  "Put  away  the 
union  card.  Now  I  know  what  I'm  up 
against  and  I'm  going  to  lick  it.  I'm  go- 
ing to  go  to  school."  School,  for  Danny, 
was  no  formal  enrollment  in  the  classes  of 
any  institution.  Instead,  he  chose  per- 
sonal coaching,  voice  lessons.  Diction 
lessons.  Later,  acting  lessons.  Two  weeks 
later,  he  auditioned  for  the  first  time  for 
Arthur  Godfrey's  Talent  Scouts.  He  was 
told,  "Come  back  in  six  months." 

Danny  cites  the  turning  point.  "This 
time,  I  wasn't  disappointed.  I  took  their 
advice  to  get  more  experience.  I  found 
some  small  bookings.  And  I  auditioned 
once  a  month  for  six  months.  It  sure  was 
a  great  day  for  me  when  Miss  Esther  Stoll, 
who  ran  the  auditions,  said,  'Go,  brother. 
You're   ready.' " 

With  Mary  as  his  talent  scout,  Danny 
went  on  and  won.  There  was  only  one 
drawback.  Mr.  Godfrey  was  on  vacation. 
Jack  Paar  was  sitting  in  on  Talent  Scouts 
and  Peter  Lind  Hayes  was  running  the 
morning  show.  Mr.  Godfrey  never  heard 
Danny. 

Danny's  real  break  came  later,  when  the 
show  was  in  Miami.  Pat  Boone  had  an 
engagement  on  the  road.  Mr.  Godfrey 
walked  down  to  the  beach  to  join  Janette 
Davis  and  the  McGuire  Sisters  and  asked, 
"Whom  shall  we  put  on  in  his  place?" 
Unanimously,  they  said,  "Danny  Costello." 
Said  Godfrey,  "If  you  all  want  him,  that's 
it." 

For  Danny,  it  has  led  to  repeated  ap- 
pearances, on  the  program  and  another 
recording,  this  one  on  the  Caravan  label, 
titled  "That's  Where  I  Shine,"  and  "My 
Creator,"  a  religious  number.  "You  can't 
call  it  a  hit,"  Danny  admits,  but  it's  a  step 
in  the  right  direction. 

However,  the  real  turning  point  in  Dan- 
ny's career  came  the  day  Janette  Davis 
introduced  him  to  Max  Kendrick,  who  is 
associated  with  Warner  Bros.  Publishing 
Co.  "That  was  my  lucky  day,"  says  Dan- 
ny. "He  liked  me  and  took  a  personal  as 
well  as  professional  interest  in  me,  and 
taught  me  more  in  two  months  than  I  had 
learned  in  all  the  years  previous  in  show 
business.  Max  is  just  about  the  best  friend 
a  guy   could   ever  have. 

Several  months  have  passed  since  that 
first  meeting.  And,  with  Max  and  Danny 
working  together,  things  are  really  begin- 
ning to  happen.  Already,  TV  films,  mo- 
tion picture  contracts,  even  a  Broadway 
play,  are  being  discussed.  Like  Mary,  in 
that  long  ago  ball  game,  Danny  can  count 
some  hits,  some  errors.  But  it  looks  as 
though  he,  too,  is  about  to  hit  that  home 
run. 

And  Mary  and  Danny  have  their  idea 
of  a  homer  completely  defined.  Danny, 
Jr.  was  born  on  June  5,  1955.  Says  his 
proud  parent,  "We're  now  raising  two  ball 
players.  We  figure  we  need  about  nine- 
teen acres  and  a  house  with  double  doors, 
doors  we  can  fling  open  in  the  morning 
and  say,  'Okay>  kids,  it's  all  yours.'  H@0 
ahead  dnd-'furi!'"-  ^o.i   Bid   bA 


New  Pictures 
You'll  Love 

Here's  something  new  . . .  something  extra 
special  for  TV  and  radio  fans.  It's  a  picture 
album  produced  by  the  editors  of  TV  radio 
mirror.  Here  are  new  and  exciting  pic- 
tures of  your  all-time  favorites,  as  well  as 
dramatic  photographs  of  the  shining  new 
stars.  Here,  also,  you  read  about  the  roles 
these  famous  celebrities  play  in  real  life. 
For  greater  tv  and  radio  enjoyment  get 
your  copy  of  this  sensational  album  now. 

New  Roles  .  .  .  New  Pictures 

New  stars  are  being  made,  new  songs 
sung,  new  murders  plotted,  as  a  new  sea- 
son gets  under  way. 

All  over  the  networks,  people  who  are 
well  known  to  you  will  be  turning  up  in 
new  spots  and  in  new  roles.  For  the  most 
glamorous  pictures  of  the  new  season, 
get  your  hands  on  a  copy  of  tv-radio 

ALBUM. 

Big  Pictures 

tv-radio  album  is  just  packed  solid  with 
pictures  .  .  .  wonderful  pictures!  But  the 
most  exciting  ones  are  the  big  full-page 
pictures.  Never  before  have  we  published 
so  many  giant-size  pictures.  These  full- 
page  true-to-life  portraits  are  so  unusual 
that  you  will  want  to  frame  each  one  of 
them. 

Make  no  mistake  about  this  great  album 
— it's  tops.  It  contains  gorgeous  pictures 
of  all  your  favorite  tv  and  radio  stars. 
Here  in  one  compact  volume  you  have  the 
latest  pictures  of  every  famous  tv  and 
radio  personality. 

A  Prize  Package 
Only  50c  While  They  Last 

This  wonderful  tv-radio 
album  is  available  at 
your  favorite  magazine 
counter — now.  Get  your 
copy  at  once  before  they 
are  all  gobbled  up !  Only 
50c.  If  your  newsdealer 
is  sold  out,  mail  coupon 
below,  with  50c,  today. 

Rush  This  Coupon  Today 

r... ................. ...... 

•TV  RADIO  MIRROR         Dept.  WG-1257 
S  205  E.  42  ST.,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 

■Send   me  TV-RADIO  ALBUM    1957.    I   en- 
l  close  50c. 


ftVRsdio 

ALBUM 


I  Name.  . . 

|   Please    Print 

I  Address . 


I  City . . 


State.. 

«■*>■•■■■  ■  ■ ,»««  .  .  »  .  .  .  .  ...  4 


75 


(Continued  Irom  page  34) 
"For  six  years,  when  I  was  teaching 
school,"  she  says,  "I  helped  children  with 
their  problems.  In  spite  of  that,  I  didn't 
learn  how  to  apply  psychology  to  myself 
or  other  grownups." 

Inside  every  fat  person,  it  has  been  said, 
is  a  thin  one  struggling  to  get  free.  After 
Dr.  Milton  V.  Kline,  psychologist  and 
writer  on  hypnosis,  began  using  hypnotic 
therapy  to  help  free  the  "real"  Dorothy 
inside,  she  was  able  to  shed  fifty-seven 
pounds.  Now  at  last  she  has  lost  weight 
and  kept  it  off.  The  story  of  how  Dorothy 
did  it  is  the  story  of  a  girl  honest  enough 
to  face  reality,  find  psychological  help  and 
learn  the  truth  about  what  makes  her  tick. 

Dieting  was  something  that  Dorothy  had 
tried  many  times,  but  only  with  tempo- 
rary success.  Once,  when  she  was  in  her 
early  teens,  she  went  on  a  cottage-cheese 
diet  and  lost  thirty  pounds.  "I  had  an 
aunt  with  beautiful  size-fourteen  clothes, 
and  I  wanted  to  wear  them,"  she  explains. 
"Except  for  clothes,  being  big  never  both- 
ered me.  Pretty  dresses  only  went  to  size- 
eighteen,  and  I  wore  size-twenty.  But, 
every  time  I  lost  weight,  I'd  end  up  gain- 
ing it  back — plus  a  little  more!" 

In  Turkey  or  Central  Europe,  where 
ample  proportions  are  stylish,  Dorothy  felt 
she  would  have  been  belle  of  the  ball. 
"I'll  never  be  skinny,"  she  said,  "but  I 
don't  want  to  be  that  kind  of  glamour 
girl.  Some  skinny  girls  are  mean  because 
they're  hungry." 

No  one  with  rollicking  humor  like 
Dorothy's  could  be  "mean."  Radio  listen- 
ers often  write  to  ask:  "Who's  that  girl 
with  the  infectious  laugh?  Hearing  her 
cheers  me  up."  The  response  to  her 
warmth  is  particularly  evident  in  children, 
because  they  don't  hide  their  feelings. 
Several  years  ago,  when  Dorothy  was 
teaching  school,  however,  one  little  girl 
was  afraid  of  her. 

"She  was  one  of  those  adorable  Dresden- 
china  type  girls,"  Dorothy  remembers. 
"I'm  outspoken,  robust,  and  I  could  see 
her  withdraw.  A  week  after  school  had 
started,  I  sat  on  a  chair  in  front  of  the 
class  and  said,  'Some  of  you  are  afraid  of 
me.  I  talk  louder,  laugh  harder,  scold 
louder,  and  I'm  bigger  than  the  other 
teachers.  But  I  promise  that,  before  the 
term  is  over,  you'll  realize  I'm  like  the 
dog  who  barks  but  doesn't  bite.  One  little 
girl  is  afraid  of  me.  I  was  once  told  the 
best  way  not  to  be  afraid  of  someone  is 
to  think  how  funny  she  would  look  in  her 
petticoat.  You  try  that  with  me,  and  you'll 
laugh  instead  of  being  scared.' 

"After  that,  the  little  girl  relaxed  and 
became  friendly.  Children,  particularly 
five  and  six-year-olds,  are  fascinated  by 
differences  in  size.  They  used  to  ask  me 
why  I  was  so  fat.  I'd  tell  them  there  are 
differences  in  everything.  Some  people 
have  black  hair,  others  are  blonde,  some 
have  blue  eyes,  others  have  brown.  We'd 
start  comparing  how  funny  differences  are 
and  end  up  giggling. 

"To  keep  children  interested,"  says 
Dorothy,  "you  need  a  bag  of  tricks."  One 
of  her  best  was  to  bring  her  Golden  Auto- 
harp  to  class.  This  is  an  easy-to-play 
stringed  instrument  like  a  zither.  She 
would  sing  and  play  folk  songs  and  teach 
them  to  the  youngsters.  The  latest  re- 
cording of  some  of  her  songs  is  on  RCA 
Victor's  Bluebird  record,  "Lullabies  for 
Sleepyheads." 

Dorothy     loved     youngsters     and     they 

J    trusted  her.    Part  of  the  time,  she  taught 

■    in  a  school  for  disturbed  children.    They 

had    emotional    problems    which    blocked 

their  being  able  to  study  and  learn  in  the 


76 


way  that  happy  children  can.    Trying  to 


Goodbye  to  57  Pounds! 

help  them,  she  had  long  talks  with  the 
three  psychiatrists  and  one  psychologist 
at  school.  She  began  to  realize  that  all 
of  us  have  problems,  whether  we're  aware, 
of  them  or  not.  To  help  us  handle  them, 
many  of  us  need  professional  help. 

In  a  classroom,  Dorothy  never  doubted 
that  she  had  the  children's  approval. 
When  grownups  entered,  however,  she 
began  to  feel  uneasy.  They  seemed  to 
represent  a  challenge.  As  she  became 
more  interested  in  psychology,  she  began 
to  wonder  why.  Her  own  childhood  had 
been  difficult  in  some  wavs.  "My  father 
was  a  perfectionist,"  Dorothy  explains. 
"He  was  a  mechanical  engineer,  the  kind 
of  person  who  said  there  was  no  room  for 
failure.  For  a  child,  his  standards  were 
impossibly  high." 

When  Dorothy  was  six,  her  parents  sep- 
arated and  she  was  raised  by  her  mother 
in  her  Grandmother  McDonald's  home. 
She  had  a  wonderful  cook  and  the  food 
was  lavish.  "My  grandmother  was  from 
the  South,  and  the  McDonald  girls  were 
noted  for  their  delicacies — hot  cornbread, 
golden  popovers,  crispy  pastries,  and  fine- 
flaked  biscuits  that  tasted  even  better  with 
rich  gravy  poured  over  them  generously. 

"It  would  be  hard  to  stay  thin  in  that 
household.  My  mother  managed,  even 
though  she  could  bake  the  best  angel- 
food  cake  I've  ever  tasted.  It  looked 
pretty,  too.  She  had  a  trick  of  twirling  on 
the  butter  icing  with  a  knife  so  it  looked 
like  a  magazine  picture. 

"It's  not  true  that  heaviness  runs  in 
families.  The  tendency  to  overeat  does. 
So  often,  too,  we  use  food  to  comfort  us. 
I  remember  when  I  was  a  youngster  and 
cut  my  chin,  my  mother  gave  me  a  pat  of 
butter  and  said,  'This  will  make  you  feel 
better.'  As  I  grew  up,  I  got  used  to  com- 
forting myself  by  eating  whenever  I  was 
under  stress  or  strain. 

"My  vice  is  hot  dogs.  Not  just  any  old 
kind,  but  the  ball-game  or  cart-on-the- 
corner  kind  of  hot  dogs  you  eat  with 
sauerkraut.  When  I  reach  a  point  of  low 
resistance,  instead  of  catching  a  cold  as 
most  people  do,  I  give  in  and  eat  a  hot 
dog!" 

Dorothy's  intelligent  curiosity  led  her 
to  overeating,  too.  Foreign  foods  and  new 
foods  interested  her.  In  restaurants,  she 
ordered  the  specialties,  no  matter  how 
loaded  with  calories  they  were. 

Once,  after  winning  a  music  scholar- 
ship and  singing  with  her  home-town 
band,  Dorothy  decided  to  lose  weight  if 
she  had  to  wire  her  jaw  shut.  She  went 
to  a  reducing  school,  ended  with  a  skin 
condition  and  malnutrition.  Another  time, 
she  decided  that  she  wanted  to  be  a  pro- 
fessional singer,  so  she  dieted  down  to 
size-sixteen  from  size-forty-two.  Then 
she  started  making  the  rounds  of  the 
booking  agents.  "You  have  a  nice  face, 
a  nice  voice,"  agents  would  say — and  then 
add,  "but  why  don't  you  lose  some 
weight?" 

"That  straw  broke  the  camel's  back," 
Dorothy  says  now.  "I  have  a  big  frame 
and  I  decided  that,  if  I  had  to  be  skinny 
to  be  a  singer,  I'd  be  a  schoolteacher!" 
Up  went  her  weight  again. 

While  she  was  still  studying  to  be  an 
elementary-school  teacher,  she  met  and 
married  a  friend  of  her  brother  Harry,  a 
commercial  fisherman  named  Arti  Olsen. 
Arti  had  been  a  whaler  in  Norway  and 
because  of  that  unusual  occupation,  the 
CBS-TV  program  Name  That  Tune  wanted 
him  on  their  show,  after  the  Olsens  had 
filled  out  audience-participation  cards. 
Arti  was  at  sea  when  a  call  came,  but  the 
man  liked  the  jolly  quality  in  Dorothy's 
voice  on  the  phone,  so  he  asked  her  to 
come  in  to  be  screened.    Fortunately,  she 


took  her  brother,  Harry  Bell,  who  has 
always  acted  as  her  adviser,  with  her. 

Mr.  Salter  took  him  aside  after  the 
audition  and  said  he  wanted  to  use  Doro- 
thy but  he  was  afraid  she  might  fall  and 
hurt  herself  because  she  was  heavy.  On 
the  program,  two  people  race  up  to  ring 
a  bell  before  answering  the  questions. 
Harry  assured  him  that  she  was  a  good 
dancer  and  light  on  her  feet  from  running 
with   children  on  the   playground. 

On  the  night  of  her  first  appearance, 
Dorothy  was  disheartened  when  she  saw 
that  her  opponent  was  tall,  thin,  and 
long-legged.  Even  though  he  ran  faster, 
he  missed  one  song  which  Dorothy  was 
able  to  name  and  she  went  on  to  win  the 
$25,000  prize.  Meanwhile,  Steve  Sholes  of 
RCA  Victor  signed  her  to  record  "The 
Little  White  Duck,"  which  she  had  sung 
on  the  program.  It  quickly  sold  150,000 
copies. 

After  making  personal  appearances  to 
promote  the  record,  and  seeing  herself  on 
the  TV  monitor,  she  knew  that  she  had 
to  lose  weight.  "I  went  to  a  doctor  outside 
of  New  York  state,"  Dorothy  says.  "He 
gave  me  pills  and  injections.  I  lost  thirty 
pounds,  but  I  got  dehydrated  and  my  skin 
broke  out.  Frightened,  I  went  back  to  my 
own  physician,  Dr.  Vincent  Fiocco.  He 
had  me  stop  medication,  the  condition 
cleared  up — and  I  gained  the  weight 
back." 

Then  Dorothy  began  to  appear  with  Dr. 
Frances  Horwich  on  Ding  Dong  School. 
"Miss  Frances  used  suggestive  psychology 
with  me,"  Dorothy  recalls.  "She  talked 
about  losing  weight  herself  and  gave  me 
suggestions  about  how  to  dress  more  be- 
comingly. 

"I  knew  that  I  had  a  weight  problem 
but  what  I  didn't  understand  was  that, 
basically,  I  kept  overeating  when  I  was 
under  stress.  Food  had  always  been  a 
source  of  comfort  to  me. 

"I  loved  to  sing  but  I  didn't  have  enough 
faith  in  myself.  I  remembered  watching 
Bert  Parks  on  many  shows,  and  it  was 
hard  to  accept  finding  myself  on  the  same 
side  of  a  mike  with  him,  singing  on  NBC 
Bandstand." 

In  November,  1956,  Dorothy  read  an 
article  about  Dr.  Milton  Kline,  Director, 
Institute  for  Research  in  Hypnosis  at 
Long  Island  University.  It  interested  her 
and  so,  like  a  typical  schoolteacher,  she 
clipped  and  filed  it.  Again,  she  consulted 
her  own  doctor.  He  was  open-minded 
about  the  use  of  hypnosis  and  asked, 
"What  do  you  think?" 

"If  my  eating  is  a  problem,"  Dorothy 
answered,   "I   should   be   able   to   face   it." 

Medicine  had  done  no  good,  she  couldn't 
stick  to  a  diet — so,  finally,  on  a  rainy, 
cold  day  last  February,  she  called  Dr. 
Kline.  No  one  should  undertake  any 
method  of  losing  weight  without  a  thor- 
ough physical  examination.  Since  Dr. 
Fiocco  had  given  Dorothy  a  check-up  and 
his  approval,  Dr.  Kline  was  willing  to 
proceed. 

In  the  hands  of  anyone  but  a  competent 
therapist,  hypnosis — like  surgery  or  any 
medical  technique — can  be  dangerous.  A 
person  under  hypnosis  seems  like  a  sleep- 
walker, except  that  he  believes  and  does, 
within  certain  limits,  what  the  therapist 
says.  "The  subject  often  may  experience 
reality  through  the  therapist,  rather  than 
through  his  own  senses,"  Dr.  Kline  once 
said.  "If  the  therapist  says,  'It  is  dark,' 
the  subject  may  experience  darkness  and 
reacts  as  if  it  were  dark." 

In  Dr.  Kline's  office,  before  he  hypno- 
tized her,  Dorothy  asked  if  she  could 
take  her  shoes  off.  Then,  while  she  con- 
centrated, he  talked  to  her  slowly  and  in 


rhythmic  patterns.  Dorothy  felt  as  if  she 
were  sliding  down  a  coal  chute  inside 
herself,  the  kind  of  feeling  she  has  just 
before  falling  asleep. 

"I  always  knew  what  Dr.  Kline  was 
saying,"  Dorothy  has  told  me,  "and,  even 
after  I  was  hypnotized,  I'd  think  to  myself 
that  I  could  raise  my  arms  if  I  wanted  to — 
but  I  didn't  want  to." 

Before  waking  her,  Dr.  Kline  told  Dor- 
othy that  she  would  be  less  interested  in 
food,  think  less  about  it,  but  she  would 
have  a  feeling  of  well-being.  "I  woke  up 
feeling  bright-eyed  and  bushy-tailed," 
Dorothy  says.  "When  I  was  leaving,  Dr. 
Kline  asked  if  I  had  my  shoes  on.  One 
patient  had  walked  out  and  forgotten  her 
shoes." 

How  can  hypnosis  help  an  overweight 
person?  I  interviewed  Dr.  Kline  and  he 
told  me  that  many  people  seek  psycho- 
logical help  for  overweight,  particularly 
when  they  can't  control  their  eating.  With 
hypnotherapy,  or  with  other  psychological 
help,  a  patient  can  deal  with  some  of  the 
feelings  and  emotions  which  created  an 
undesirable  pattern  of  eating,  and  thus 
gain  more  voluntary  control.  So  long  as 
the  desire  to  eat  is  voluntary,  it's  all  right 
to  eat  a  lot — if  that's  what  we  want.  The 
problem  arises  when  we  eat  involuntarily, 
when  we  become  passive  observers,  and 
the  desire  to  eat  takes  hold  of  us  the  way 
fatigue  does. 

Therapy  under  .  hypnosis  can  help  a 
patient  stay  on  a  diet.  But  more  impor- 
tant is  helping  a  compulsive  eater  to  rec- 
ognize what  experiences  in  his  life  made 
him  seek  emotional  satisfaction  in  food 
instead  of  in  his  daily  living.  If  these  past 
experiences  were  as  obvious  as  a  punch 
in  the  nose,  the  problem  would  be  simple 
Usually  they  are  so  subtle  and  deep  that 
it  takes  psychotherapy  over  a  long  period 
of  time  to  dig  them  out.  How  long  a  time 
depends  on  how  deep-rooted  and  complex 
the  problems  are. 

"I  was  afraid  I'd  make  a  mistake,  when 
I  first  began  to  sing  on  NBC  Bandstand," 
Dorothy  recalls.  "I  had  always  admired 
Skitch  Henderson,  our  conductor,  and  he 
terrified  me,  although  people  on  the  show 
assured  me  there  was  no  reason  for  it.  I 
goofed  my  lines  and  got  lost  in  the  middle 
of  a  song.  The  band  had  to  keep  playing 
and  afterwards  I  wept  bitter  tears  behind 
the  curtain  at  the  back  of  the  stage. 

"I  talked  with  Dr.  Kline  and  gradually, 
like  seeing  them  in  a  reflector,  the  rea- 
sons I  was  afraid  of  Skitch  came  to  me. . 
I  respected  him  from  far  off  and  wanted 
his  approval.  I  didn't  have  enough  faith 
in  myself  because,  for  one  thing,  my 
father — without  realizing  it — had  set  im- 
possible, rigid  standards.  With  such  nega- 
tive thoughts  in  my  mind,  it  was  inevitable 
that  I  make  a  mistake.  I  was  trying  to 
discipline  myself  the  way  my  father  had 
disciplined  himself. 

"Finally,  I  was  able  to  see  Skitch  the 
way  he  was,  kind  and  helpful.  I  was  no 
longer  afraid  of  myself  or  him,  so  one  day 
I  was  able  to  screw  up  my  courage,  throw 
my  arms  around  him  and  say,  'I'm  not 
afraid  of  you  any  more.'  In  fact,  every- 
one on  our  NBC  Bandstand  show  has  been 
helping  and  encouraging  to  me." 

When  she  was  recording  "The  Little 
White  Duck,"  Steve  Sholes  had  asked 
Dorothy  to  sing  the  last  verse  in  a  minor 
key. 

"Oh,  I  can't,"  she  said. 

"Don't  say  you  can't,"  her  brother  said. 
"If  you  can't,  they'll  tell  you." 

"He  was  right,"  Dorothy  smiles.  "It 
turned  out  well.  I  used  to  say  that  I 
couldn't  sing  in  harmony.  Now  I  say, 
'Help  me  and  I'll  try.'  The  same  holds 
true  with  my  dieting.  Dr.  Kline  has  helped 
me  find  out  why  I  was  eating  too  much, 
and  now  I  can  keep  from  gorging  myself 
with  food  the  way  I  used  to." 


Dr.  Kline  never  has  told  Dorothy  spe- 
cifically what  to  eat.  Her  overeating  was 
not  due  to  ignorance  of  what  was  fatten- 
ing. Now  she  can  stick  to  a  comfortable, 
low-calorie  diet.  For  breakfast:  Tomato 
juice,  two  eggs,  toast,  and  coffee.  In  a 
restaurant  for  lunch,  she  doesn't  look  at 
a  menu,  so  she  isn't  tempted.  She  orders 
chopped  meat  broiled,  sliced  tomatoes  or 
green  salad,  and  coffee.  For  dinner:  Lean 
meat,  low-calorie  vegetables,  salad,  and 
fresh  fruit,  gelatin,  or  canned  dietetic  fruit 
for  dessert.  Instead  of  the  French  cookies 
and  pies  she  ate  before,  Dorothy  treats 
herself  to  an  occasional  piece  of  hard 
candy.  Sucaryl  sweetens  her  coffee  and 
Dr.  Fiocco  has  prescribed  vitamin  and 
mineral  pills.  During  rehearsals,  she  may 
drink  coffee — but,  if  she  gets  pastry  for 
Skitch,  she  doesn't  eat  any  herself. 

lhere  is  more  to  Dorothy's  changed  ap- 
pearance than  losing  weight.  A  friend  of 
her  brother's,  Sonya  Box,  gave  her  lessons 
in  exercise  and  posture.  "I've  learned  how 
to  pull  back  my  ears  and  stand  more 
erect,"  says  Dorothy.  "Having  a  smiling 
face  is  important,  too." 

There's  no  reason  why  a  large  woman 
can't  be  attractive:  "I  wear  plain  V-neck- 
lines  and  sleeves  that  come  below  the 
elbow.  No  more  skirts  and  blouses,  or 
patterned  materials.  Instead,  solid-color 
dresses  self-belted  or  with  belts  the  same 
color.    I  sew  many  of  my  clothes  myself. 

"Once  I  find  a  good  pattern,  I  stick  to 
it.  I  don't  see  how  an  active  woman  can 
wear  straight  skirts.  Besides,  they  pull 
above  my  knees  when  I  sit  down  to  play 
the  Golden  Autoharp.  At  a  party  or  at 
work,  I  don't  want  to  worry  about  how 
I'm  sitting.  I'm  more  interested  in  what's 
going  on  around  me.  And,  finally,  I've 
found  a  store  that  caters  to  large-sized 
young  women — the  'Jr.  Plenty'  department 
at  Lane  Bryant. 

"Instead  of  oxfords,  I  wear  heels  now. 
I  buy  pretty  shoes  and  small,  unusual 
hats.  I  never  wore  hats  before,  but 
brightly  colored  ones  call  attention  to  my 
head.  I've  started  to  use  make-up  and  my 
hair-do  is  new.  My  husband  likes  long 
hair,  but  mine  is  now  short  on  the  sides 
and  less  severe  than  before.  A  hairdresser 
styled  it,  but  I  trim  it  myself  now  that 
I  know  what  he  was  trying  to  achieve. 

"Except  for  pearls,  I  don't  wear  neck- 
laces, and  I  wear  few  bracelets.  I  do  wear 
earrings  more  often,  however,  since  my 
hair  is  up. 

"I'm  not  sure  that  audiences  like  me 
more  just  because  I  weigh  less  and  dress 
differently,  but  I  know  that  agents  and 
producers  do." 

For  her  audiences,  Dorothy  likes  best 
to  sing  folk  songs  and  pop  songs.  She 
sings  ballads  but,  since  she's  far  from 
being  a  sad  person,  people  are  not  con- 
vinced when  she  sings  a  sad  song.  "When 
I  sing  a  rhythm  song,  I  feel  like  a  child 
who  snitches  a  cookie  and  gets  away  with 
it,"  Dorothy  smiles.  She  sings  them 
tongue-in-cheek,  with  a  wink  at  the 
studio  audience  as  if  to  say,  You  know 
and  I  know  that  I'm  just  playing.  I'm  not 
trying  to  convince  you  that  I'm  a  rhythm, 
singer. 

What  does  Dorothy  weigh  now,  after 
losing  fifty-seven  pounds? 

"I  won't  answer  until  I'm  down  to  one 
hundred  and  forty,"  she  says,  with  a  laugh. 
Although  some  pounds  still  have  to  go, 
eating  no  longer  exists  as  a  problem.  That 
period  of  anxiety  is  over  and  she  can 
take  off  as  many  pounds  as  she  wishes, 
because  now  she  can  stick  to  a  diet.  She 
has  had  the  courage  to  face  the  unpleas- 
ant truth  of  why  she  overate.  Maybe  she 
can  write  her  superb  accomplishment  into 
a  far-from-sad  ballad  and  sing  it  in  her 
inimitable,  happy  way:  "Oh  What  a  Beau- 
tiful Feeling!" 


Special  New  Tablet 

Relieves  Monthly  Cramps 

for  3  out  of  4  in  Tests! 


Amazing  new  formula  developed 

especially  for  female  distress  gives 

greater  relief  than  aspirin! 

If  you  dread  those  "difficult  days"  each 
month,  listen!  Science  has  developed  a 
special  new  tablet  to  relieve  pain,  cramps, 
and  tense  feelings  of  monthly  periods! 
It  contains  a  unique  combination  of  medi- 
cines— including  blood-building  iron. 
Thus  offers  more  relief  than  plain  aspirin! 

In  doctors'  tests  painful  distress  was 
relieved  for  3  out  of  4  women!  Many 
didn't  suffer  even  on  the  first  day!  They 
also  escaped  much  of  the  jitters  and  un- 
happy tension  so  common  as  you  ap- 
proach that  trying  time  of  month. 

So  don't  suffer  needlessly.  Ask  for 
"Lydia  Pinkham  Tablets"  at  drug  stores. 
No  prescription  needed.  See  if  they  don't 
help  you  feel  worlds  better — both  before 
and  during  your  period! 


POEA/TCWANTED 

|       \M  |^h  I  ¥  I  ^jFor  musical  setting  .  .  .  send 

Poems    today.    Any    subject. 

Immediate    consideration.    Phonograph   records    made. 

CROWN  MUSIC  CO.,  49  W.  32  St.,  Studio  560,  New  York  1 


High  School  Course 

at  Home 


j  Finish  in  2  Years 

>  as  rapidly  as  your  time  and  abilities  permit.  Equivalent  to  resi- 
dent school  work-prepares  for  college  entrance  exams.  Standard 
H.  S  texts  supplied.  Diploma  awarded.  Credit  for  H.  S.  subjects 
completed,  faingle  subjects  if  desired.  Ask  for  Free  Bulletin. 

(American  School,  Dent.  H953,  Drexel  at  58th,  Chicago 37 


®U$&c 


COLO 
JORES 


LIPS  SORE? 

POCKET  SIZE 

39c 

H 
r 

„  FEVER 
^ISTERS; 


Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 
New  Way  Without  Surgery 

Science  Finds  Healing  Substance  That 
Relieves  Pain — Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 

For  the  first  time  science  has  found  a 
new  healing  substance  with  the  astonishing 
ability  to  shrink  hemorrhoids  and  to  relieve 
pain  —  without  surgery. 

In  case  after  case,  while  gently  relieving 
pain,  actual  reduction  (shrinkage)  took 
place. 

Most  amazing  of  all  —  results  were  so 
thorough  that  sufferers  made  astonishing 
statements  like  "Piles  have  ceased  to  be  a 
problem!" 

The   secret   is   a   new   healing   substance 
(Bio-Dyne*)  — discovery  of  a  world-famous        T 
research  institute.  * 

This  substance  is  now  available  in  sup-        R 
pository  or  ointment  form  under  the  name 
Preparation  H*  Ask  for  it  at  all  drug  count- 
ers—money  back  guarantee.     *Beg.  U.  S.  Pat.  Off .      rjrj 


Como:  The  Pied  Piper  of  TV 


(Continued  from  page  41) 
bucks  a  year  or  better.    He  could,  if  he 
wished,  have  a  servant  for  every  room  in 
the  house,  with  one  extra  just  to  squeeze 
toothpaste  on  his  toothbrush. 

In  reality,  there  is  but  one  maid  who 
helps  with  the  housework.  Roselle  does 
all  the  cooking.  For  example,  at  a  recent 
party  for  fifteen  of  Perry's  co-workers,  she 
set  the  table,  prepared  the  meal  and 
served  it.  Once  upon  a  time,  there  was  a 
French  chauffeur  on  duty  at  the  Como 
residence,  but  not  for  long.  Perry  found 
the  man  a  driving  job  with  another  fam- 
ily. Says  Perry,  "We  didn't  think  it  was 
fair  to  keep  him  on,  until  we  took  some 
French   lessons." 

Going  out  to  a  night  club  is  a  seldom 
thing.  For  a  great  performer,  such  as 
Sinatra  or  Nat  "King"  Cole,  the  Comos 
will  make  the  drive  into  town  to  be  at 
ringside.  Perry  almost  never  wears  a 
tuxedo  for  these  infrequent  outings.  He's 
had  tuxedoes.  A  few  years  ago,  he  had 
one  that  he'd  worn  once.  When  he  was 
asked  for  a  donation  of  clothing  to  be 
auctioned  at  a  benefit,  he  gave  them  the 
practically  brand-new  suit.  This  past  year, 
he  had  to  appear  as  guest  of  honor  at  a 
benefit  for  the  Friars'  Club  in  New  York. 
So  he  bought  another  tuxedo.  But  that, 
too,  has  disappeared.  "Tuxedo?"  he  says, 
"Who  needs  one?" 

There  are  three  children  at  home  in 
Sands  Point:  Ronnie,  seventeen,  David. 
eleven,  and  Terri,  ten.  Perry  has  literally 
quarantined  them  from  publicity.  A  pho- 
tographer hasn't  been  inside  the  driveway 
of  Perry's  house  in  years.  The  idea  is  that 
the  kids  should  grow  up  in  a  home  rather 
than  a  fish  bowl.  And  they  are  brought  up 
like  kids  whose  fathers  have  an  average 
income.  When  Ronnie  was  coming  into 
Manhattan  to  attend  school  at  St.  Xavier's, 
he  came  by  train  and  subway.  He  spent 
well  over  two  hours  a  day  commuting. 
And  home  entertainment  for  Ronnie,  Da- 
vid and  Terri  is  built  right  into  the  house. 
Television  is  a  staple.  Music  is  the  rule, 
whether  at  piano  or  phonograph. 

Dee  Belline  says,  "You  ought  to  see  the 
way  Perry  has  with  kids.  Nephews,  nieces, 
all  kids  are  crazy  about  him.  He's  got  a 
special  magic  with  children.  I  don't  know 
what  it  is  exactly — his  patience,  his  smile, 
his  great  affection.  Take  my  two,  Dennis 
and  Judith.  The  boy  is  fifteen  and  his  sis- 
ter, thirteen.  Well,  they  are  both  nuts  for 
Pat  Boone  and  Elvis,  but  they're  mad 
about  Uncle  Perry.  Let  anyone  say  a  word 
against  Perry  and  they  jump  to  his  defense 
like  tigers." 

1  his  Pied  Piper  aspect  of  Perry's  ex- 
tends beyond  the  family.  Any  Saturday 
night  at  the  studio,  you'll  find  adults  in 
line  with  their  children.  After  the  show, 
they  line  up  again  at  the  stage  door  and 
wait  for  Perry.  He  has  never  ducked  out 
on  the  audience.  He  signs  autographs, 
poses  for  youngsters  with  cameras  and 
kneels  down  to  talk  to  the  little  ones. 
Often,  the  mother  or  father  will  say,  "You 
Jrnow,  Mr.  Como,  we  wouldn't  have  waited 
in  line  like  this  for  anyone  but  our  child. 
She  insisted  that  she  had  to  see  you."  And, 
just  about  that  time,  the  child  usually  gets 
timid  and  hides  behind  her  mother's  skirts. 
"When  you  see  Como  on  television, 
you're  seeing  the  same  personality  we 
know  off  camera,"  says  Goodman  Ace, 
Perry's  head  writer.  "We  write  this  show 
for  Perry  'as  is.'  He's  a  family  man  and 
happy  about  it.  So  into  the  show  go  lines 
J  about  his  children  and  his  wife.  When  a 
celebrity  appears  as  a  guest,  Perry  doesn't 
ask  about  the  man's  new  record  or  latest 
movie.  Instead,  he  will  say,  'And  how  are 
your  kids?'"' '''  ' 


Goodie  explains  that  the  most  popular 
kind  of  comedy  on  TV  is  built  around  the 
insult  joke — but  Perry  can't  tell  one.  "It 
would  be  out  of  character.  To  my  knowl- 
edge. Perry  has  never  insulted  anyone. 
An  insult  joke  wouldn't  ring  true.  For 
him,  we  write  the  gentle  joke.  But,  ac- 
tually, he's  no  comedian.  He's  a  personal- 
ity with  experience  and  a  great  sense  of 
timing." 

One  big  problem  during  the  season  is 
to  get  Perry  to  accept  awards  that  come 
his  way.  Perry  doesn't  want  to  stand  still 
and  be  told  how  wonderful  he  is.  Goodie 
says,  "We  are  pleased  that  he  gets  awards 
but  he  complains  that  it's  embarrassing  to 
have  someone  come  up  and  say,  'Mr. 
Como,  in  appreciation  of  the  wholesome 
entertainment  you  have  rendered  et  cetera, 
et  cetera.'  Perry  maintains  it  bores  the 
people.  We  know  that  it  makes  him  self- 
conscious.  So  we  always  have  to  make  a 
joke  out  of  any  award  he  receives.  We 
have  to  sort  of  kid  him  into  accepting  it." 

Perry,  of  course,  is  noted  for  being  easy 
to  get  along  with.  But  he  is,  also,  tireless 
in  rehearsal.  He  will  go  over  a  bit  of 
dialogue  or  action  any  number  of  times 
until  it  comes  out  right.  He  takes  criticism 
and  suggestions.  On  the  other  hand,  he 
doesn't  merely  swim  along  with  the  crowd. 

"We  have  differences,"  Goodman  Ace 
says,  "but  I  don't  mean  temperamental 
differences.  We  talk  them  out.  Sometimes 
we  want  him  to  do  a  particular  song  and 
he  refuses.  Sometimes  his  reason  is  that 
the  song  has  been  sung  to  death.  We  have 
to  remind  him  that  many  people  want  to 
hear  Perry  Como  sing  it." 

The  most  popular  musical  feature  on  the 
weekly  show  is  the  "We  Get  Letters"  seg- 
ment. Goodman  Ace  originated  the  idea. 
He  says,  "People  were  writing  in  and  ask- 
ing for  the  old  songs.  I  thought  we  ought 
to  put  a  few  minutes  aside  in  each  show 
for  the  great  standards.  Now  everyone 
likes  the  idea.  Perry  calls  it  'the  chairs- 
on-the-table  spot.'  He  says  that  it  reminds 
him  of  the  days  when  he  sang  in  night 
clubs.  After  the  show,  when  the  chairs 
were  on  the  tables,  the  band  would  loosen 
their  ties  and  he  would  sing  for  himself 
and  the  musicians.  This,  of  course,  is  the 
kind  of  singing  a  performer  likes  best." 

Perry's  new  Victor  album  is  titled,  "We 
Get  Letters."  These  are  songs  that  were 
sung  on  TV  during  the  past  couple  of 
years.  There  are  a  dozen  wonderful 
standards,  including  "Somebody  Loves 
Me,"  "Sleepy  Time  Gal,"  "They  Can't  Take 
That  Away  From  Me,"  and  "South  of  the 
Border."  For  this  album,  there  were  no 
regular  musical  arrangements.  Mitch 
Ayres  picked  eight  men  out  of  the  regular 
band  and  they  just  sat  down  with  Perry 
and  made  music.  Mitch,  incidentally,  has 
been  with  Perry  ten  years. 

"Not  many  people  know  that  Perry  is  a 
fine  musician  in  his  own  right,"  Mitch 
says.  "He  can  do  something  few  other 
singers  can.  He  can  take  a  new  number 
and  read  it  right  off  the  paper  first  time." 
Mitch  tells  you  how  meticulous  Perry  is 
at  recording  sessions.  "He  feels  that  every 
record  he  makes  he  has  to  live  with." 

And  Como  is  also  sensitive  to  the  feel- 
ings of  the  musicians.  During  the  record- 
ing of  the  last  album,  the  instrumentalists 
had  solos.  After  each  play-back,  he  would 
turn  to  the  musicians  and  say,  "How  was 
that  with  you?  Are  you  happy  with  it?" 
As  a  result,  the  album  has  the  same  in- 
timacy and  charm  you'd  enjoy  if  you  were 
on  hand  when  "the  chairs  are  on  the 
table." 

Perry's  own  favorite  song  is  a  private 
joke  between  him  and  Mitch  Ayres.  Mitch 
,says,  "This  is  funny.  You  know  the  num- 
ber, 'It  Could  Happen  to  You.'  Well,  Perry" 


sings  it  on  the  golf  course,  back  in  the 
showers,  in  his  dressing  room  at  the  show. 
Lots  of  people  have  one  song  running 
through  their  heads,  and  this  one  has  been 
in  Perry's  head  for  years.  I  don't  know 
how  many  times  I've  had  it  on  the  stands 
at  a  recording  session  but  Perry  will  pass 
it  by.    Ask  Perry  about  it." 

Perry,  when  asked,  just  says  with  a  grin, 
"Did  Mitch  tell  you  about  that?  Well,  the 
truth  is  that  I  don't  know  why  I've  never 
wanted  to  record  it.  Maybe  some  day  I'll 
record  it  under  the  shower  with  a  putter 
for  accompaniment." 

While  Mitch  has  been  with  Perry  for 
ten  years,  the  same  thing  is  also  true  of 
the  eighteen  musicians  you  hear  on  the 
show.  This,  too,  is  a  tribute  to  Perry's 
lack  of  nerves  and  temper.  He's  never 
taken  Mitch  aside  and  said,  "Get  rid  of 
that  trombone  or  that  guy  in  the  reed  sec- 
tion." And  when  the  show  originated  in 
Florida,  all  eighteen  musicians  went  along, 
plus  his  regular  cameramen,  technicians 
and  even  the  boys  who  hold  up  the  cue- 
cards.  Perry  wouldn't  call  this  loyalty  or 
generosity  in  handing  out  a  Florida  trip. 
It  seems  that  Perry  builds  up  attachments. 

"He  likes  familiar  faces  around  him, 
whether  it's  at  the  theater,  a  recording 
session  or  a  party.  Perry  likes  being  at 
ease.  When  he  has  people  around  he 
knows,  it's  being  at  home."  Mitch  adds, 
"Of  course,  it  works  both  ways.  We're 
comfortable  with  Perry,  too.  I  wouldn't 
have  been  around  ten  years  if  I  couldn't 
live  with  him.  If  I  weren't  happy  in  what 
I've  been  doing,  I  could  have  left." 

In  ten  years,  Mitch  has  heard  a  lot  of 
Como  singing  and  he,  too,  has  his  favorite 
Como.  "I  get  the  biggest  thrill  when  Perry 
is  on  a  religious  song.  He  has  such  great 
feeling  for  that  music.  When  he  sings 
'Kol  Nidre'  or  'The  Lord's  Prayer,'  I  get 
goose  pimples — and,  believe  me,  I've  heard 
a  lot  of  singing.  Do  you  know  his  all-faith 
album,  T  Believe'?  I  think  this  is  one  of 
the  greatest  things  today." 

Mitch  is,  also,  Perry's  friend  outside  of 
their  business  association.  But  the  friend- 
ship is  different  from  most  in  show  busi- 
ness. When  they  leave  the  studio,  they 
never  talk  business.  Says  Mitch,  "It's 
amazing.  The  moment  we  walk  out  the 
door,  he's  talking  about  something  else, 
usually  golf.  After  a  show,  the  excitement 
is  still  with  you.  You  may  feel  like  re- 
hashing the  show.  But  not  Perry.  We  can 
stop  in  a  restaurant  for  a  sandwich  and 
someone  will  come  up  and  say,  'That  was 
a  wonderful  performance  tonight.'  Perry 
says,  'Thanks,'  and  goes  back  to  golf 
again." 

Perry's  love  of  golf  is  the  greatest  ro- 
mance of  the  day.  Dee  Belline  remembers 
one  day  Perry  was  playing  with  a  pro  he 
very  much  admired.  The  pro  said  that 
he'd  always  wanted  to  sing  professionally. 
Perry  said,  "I'll  trade  you  even."  And  on 
the  course,  playing  with  Dee  or  Mitch, 
Perry  shows  no  mercy.  Says  Mitch,  "We 
play  to  win.  Perry  doesn't  believe  in 
gambling  for  large  stakes  with  friends,  so 
we  play  just  one-  or  two-dollar  Nassau. 
When  I  win  and  Perry  has  to  shell  out  a 
couple  bucks,  he  always  says,  'Mitch,  that 
band  better  be  soft  on  Saturday.' " 

This  is  a  joke,  for  Perry  doesn't  like 
special  treatment  at  any  time.  Mitch  re- 
calls an  incident  at  a  restaurant  where 
they  went  frequently  in  past  years.  "Every 
time  we  got  in  there,  the  owner  would  set 
up  a  pile  of  Como  records.  We  knew  that 
he  meant  well,  but  Perry  didn't  like  it. 
One  day  Perry  asked  the  man  to  stop  it. 
With  a  smile,  Perry  said,  'When  I  hear  my 
own  voice,  I  have  a  hard  time  keeping  my 
food : down."'  r':       ";    '  "'j 


Actually,  there  is  no  false  modesty  with 
Perry  about  his  music.  He  knows  what 
he  can  expect  of  himself.  For  example,  he 
goes  to  a  recording  session  which  should 
normally  take  about  two  hours  to  cut  a 
single  record.  If  it  doesn't  sound  right,  the 
session  may  go  as  long  as  four  hours — and, 
even  then,  he  may  throw  it  out.  Some- 
times he  takes  the  acetate,  the  rough 
recording,  home  to  get  the  family's  opinion. 

"Ronnie  is  the  expert  counsel,"  Perry 
says.  "You  see,  I'm  forty-five  and  I've 
lost  the  commercial  touch.  I  still  like  a 
song  that's  sweet  and  simple.  Well,  that's 
not  what  the  kids  want,  but  you  can't 
complain.  Sometimes  Ronnie  will  listen  to 
a  new  recording  and  say,  'You  sing  well, 
Pop,  but  I  don't  get  the  message.'  He  lis- 
tened to  'Hot  Diggety'  and  told  me,  'That's 
a  gasser.'  And  he  gave  the  okay  to  'Round 
and  Round.'  They  both  went  over  a  mil- 
lion.   Ronnie  said,  'I  told  you  so.'  " 

None  of  the  Como  children  show  any 
special  promise  as  vocalists,  although  the 
kids  love  music.  Ronnie,  whose  ambition 
is  to  be  a  schoolteacher,  plays  the  guitar. 
The  other  children  take  piano  lessons. 
David,  who  is  in  the  cowboy  stage,  prefers 
the  bark  of  his  cap  gun  to  a  ballad.  For 
Perry's  little  girl,  Terri,  father  can  sing 
no  wrong.  She  loves  everything  he  sings. 
Though  Ronnie  and  also  Perry's  teen-age 
nephews  and  nieces  have  a  fondness  for 
his  records,  out  at  a  dance  they  are  typical 
rock  'n'  roll  fans. 

"There's  no  such  thing  as  bad  music," 
Perry  says.  "I  mean  music  that  has  a  bad 
influence.  Sure,  some  rock  'n'  roll  num- 
bers have  racy  lyrics.  But,  usually,  the 
way  they  are  sung,  you  can't  understand 


them,  anyway.  In  my  day,  we  had  the 
Miller  and  Goodman  bands  to  dance  to. 
They  had  a  beat.  That's  what  the  kids 
want  and  get  in  rock  'n'  roll.  That's  all  it 
is." 

But  Perry's  teen-age  fans  number  in 
the  thousands.  You  can  see  some  of  them 
in  the  theater  on  Saturday  nights.  Perry 
is  proud  of  them.  They  are  enthusiastic 
but  well-behaved.  In  all  of  his  years  of 
radio  and  TV,  he's  never  had  any  trouble 
with  teenagers.  They  haven't  screamed  off 
the  studio  roof  or  torn  his  coat  or  bloodied 
his  nose.  To  them,  Perry  is  the  guy  next 
door,  something  other  than  the  swoon 
type.  There  was  a  teenager  named  Dibbie 
who  came  around  to  the  stage  door  for 
years.  She  was  the  president  of  one  of 
Perry's  fan  clubs.  When  she  fell  in  lova, 
she  brought  her  fiance  to  meet  Perry. 
Then  Perry  got  a  wedding  announcement. 
Eventually,  she  was  at  the  stage  door  once 
more.  This  time  with  a  seven-weeks-old 
baby.  She  wanted  Perry  to  see  her  first 
child. 

But  those  who  can't  bring  babies  send 
letters  and  they  continue  to  come  from 
everywhere,  reflecting  Perry's  warmth. 
"Thank  you  for  all  your  kindness.  God 
bless  you  and  your  family,"  says  one.  A 
fifteen-year-old  writes,  "You  are  the  one 
man  on  TV  who  most  resembles  the  man 
I  would  like  to  marry.  My  mother,  father, 
sisters  and  all  my  friends  like  you  very 
much.  You  are  the  ideal  husband  and 
father."  And  another  closes  with  the 
thought,  "I  thank  you  and  wish  you  and 
your  family  health  and  happiness" — which 
is  exactly  the  way  Perry  feels  about  his 
audience. 


The  Greatest  $64,000  Category  of  All 


(Continued  from  page  22) 
name  the  baby  Evelyn  or  something  like 
that.    But  Peter's  a  nice  name.    We  didn't 
argue  too  much  about  it,"  says  Hal. 

The  middle  name,  Lindsey,  was,  how- 
ever, his  parents'  own  choice.  "Peter  Lind- 
sey March,"  his  father  would  say,  savor- 
ing it. 

"I  figure  hell  probably  be  an  actor  any- 
way— so  why  should  he  change  his  name 
later?"  Hal  says.  "Let's  start  him  out 
with  a  good  actor-type  name."  And  so 
Peter  Lindsey  March,  a  mere  mite  of  a 
man  weighing  in  later  at  five  pounds, 
thirteen  ounces,  was  influencing  a  family's 
future — and  his  father's  present — long  be- 
fore he  arrived. 

Hal  March  has  been  married  some  six- 
teen months — and  very  happily — to  his 
beautiful  Candy.  He  loves  her  son  Stevie 
and  daughter  Missy,  aged  2.  With  their 
own  first-born  on  the  way,  Hal  be"jan 
dreaming  of  getting  out  of  the  city  apart- 
ment to  the  open  country.  He  envisioned 
a  back  yard  out  in  the  country  where 
sturdy  children  could  run  and  play. 

"It's  just  unfair  to  the  kids,"  Hal  would 
worry  paternally  to  Candy — who  agreed 
with  him.  "Look  at  Missy,  going  down  in 
the  elevator  twice  a  day,  then  across  Fifth 
Avenue  into  the  park  to  play — all  regi- 
mented, no  freedom  to  run."  And  now — 
with  Peter  Lindsey  coming  .  .  . 

So  Pete's  parents  found  an  immense 
brick  house  with  an  acre-and-a-half  of 
yard  out  in  suburban  Scarsdale,  and  they 
also  eyed  a  lovely  fieldstone  country  place 
to  buy  later  on.  Planning  for  title  fu- 
ture .  .  .  even  as,  out  in  Hollywood,  the 
production  plans  of  Paramount  Studio 
were  being  adjusted  for  Hal  March's  first 
starring  picture,  be;ng  timed  for  the  ar- 
rival of  his  first-born. 

If  that  first-born  proved  to  be  a  boy, 
Peter's  godfather-to-be,  NBC  executive 
David  Tebet,  was  already  making  enthusi- 


astic plans  to  put  him  through  Princeton. 
.  .  .  Also,  of  course,  there  awaited  Peter 
Lindsey  March  a  ready-made  audience  of 
millions  of  fans  .  .  .  and,  true  to  tradition, 
he  was  not  to  keep  them  waiting  long. 

Paramount  had  wanted  Hal  March  to 
report  for  "Hear  Me  Good"  in  Hollywood 
the  month  before,  but  Hal  had  said,  "No, 
I  won't  leave  Candy  under  any  conditions 
now."  Candy  had  the  finest  of  doctors, 
their  very  good  friend,  Dr.  Jerry  Salva- 
tore,  whom  they'd  met  when  he  was  a 
contestant  on  The  $64,000  Question  ("His 
category  was  'Food  and  Cooking,' "  Hal 
grins  now).  But  Hal  wanted  to  be  near 
Candy  throughout  the  whole  thing,  and 
to  be  there  to  convoy  his  wife  and  baby 
home  safely  from  the  hospital  that  mem- 
orable day. 

Increasingly  .  .  .  with  the  production 
date  on  the  picture  nearing,  with  moving 
vans  coming,  and  with  Candy  growing 
more  and  more  uncomfortable  .  .  .  Candy 
and  Hal  kept  worrying  about  coordinating 
the  family's  activities. 

One  day,  about  five  days  before  the 
baby  was  supposedly  due,  Candy  and  Hal 
drove  over  to  New  Jersey  to  the  doctor's. 
In  the  course  of  a  routine  examination, 
Candy  remarked,  "Doctor,  what  if  the 
baby  comes — and  Hal  can't  be  here?  They 
can't  push  the  picture  back  anymore,"  she 
added,  smiling  wearily. 

"Well — you  can  have  induced  labor,  if 
you  want  to,"  the  doctor  surprised  them 
by  saying.  Hal  and  Candy  looked  at  him 
questioningly,  and  then  at  one  another. 
Induced  labor — what  was  this?  The  doc- 
tor explained  there  was  almost  no  risk 
involved,  so  long  as  the  doctor  was  there 
every  second  watching  very  carefully. 
"Would  you  like  to  go  home  and  think 
about  it — or  would  you  like  to  make  up 
your  mind  now?"  he  asked. 

And,  as  Candy  recalls,  "We  discussed 
it  in  the  office,  and  then  Jerry  said,  'Well, 


BE  YOUR  OWN 
MUSIC  TEACHER 

Send  for  Free  Book  Telling  How  Easily 
You  Can  Learn  Piano,  Guitar,  Accordion, 
ANY    Instrument   This    EASY   A-B-C   Way 

NOW  IT'S  EASY  to  learn  music  at  home. 
No  tiresome  "exercises."  No  teacher, 
just  START  RIGHT  OUT  playing  simple 
pieces.  Thousands  mow  play  who  never  thought  they 
could.  Our  pictured  lessons  make  it  easy  as  A-B-C  to  learn 
to  play  popular  music,  hymns,  classical  and  any  other 
music.  On  easy  pay  plan,  only  a  few  cents  a  lesson.  Over 
900,000  students  including  famous  TV  Star  Lawrence 
Welk.    (Our    59th   successful   year.) 

MAIL  COUPON  FOR  FREE  BOOK.  Find  out  why  our 
method  can  teach  you  quickly,  easily,  inexpensively.  Write 
for  36-page  illustrated  Free  Book.  No  obligation.  Mention 
your  favorite  instrument.  Just  mail  coupon  todayl  No 
?all   upon>  you. 


salesman 


U.    S.    SCHOOL 
OF    MUSIC 

Studio  A20I2 

Port  Washington.  N.  Y. 


■   u.  s.  school  of  music 

I     Studio  A2012,   Port  Washington,   N.   Y. 


(Please  Print) 


FFor  musical  setting  .  .  .  send 
Poems  today.  Any  subject. 
Immediate  consideration.  Phonograph  records  made. 
CROWN  MUSIC  CO.,  49  W.  32  St.,  Studio  560,  New  York  1 


l^HIGH  SCHOOLS 


I  No  classes  to  attend.  Easy  spare-time  train- 
ing covers  big  choice  of  subjects.  Friendly  \ 
instructors;  standard  texts.  Full  credit  fori 
previous  schooling.    Diploma  awarded.' 
Write  now  for  FREE  catalog  I 
WAYNE    SCHOOL     Catalog  hh-ss 
2527  Sheffield  Ave.,  Chicago  14,  Illinois^ 


Everybody^- 


WALLET  Size  2</2  I  V/i  on 
PORTRAIT  QUALITY  PAPER 

Just  pennies  per  picture  for 
beautiful  portrait-quality 
reproductions  of  your  own  favorite 
photograph.  Send  one  portrait  or 
snapshot  (returned  unharmed) 
And  money  to: 

WALLET  PHOTOS,  BOX  M-47 
Hillside,  N.J. 


In  a  hurry?  Send  25c  extra 
for  Super-Speed  service. 


MONEY  BACK  GUARANTEE 


We  pay  postage! 


FR5« 


if6ffigg§0> 


«     ENLARGEMENT 

FROM  FAMOUS  HOLLYWOOD  FILMSTUDIOS 

Just  to  get  acquainted,  we  will 
make  you  a  beautiful  5x7  black 
and  white  enlargement  of  any 
snapshot,  photo  or  negative.  Also 
be  sure  to  include  color  of  hair, 
eyes  and  clothing,  and  get  our 
Air  Mail  Bargain  Offer  for  hav- 
ing your  enlargement  beautifully 
hand-colored  in  oil  and  mounted 
in  a  handsome  frame.  Limit  2  to  a  customer. 
Please  enclose  10c  to  cover  cost  of  handling  and 
mailing  each  enlargement.  Original  returned.  We 
will  pay  $100.00  for  children's  or  adults  pictures 
used  in  our  advertising.  Act  NOW! 

Offer  limited  to  U.S.A.   only 

HOLLYWOOD  FILM  STUDIOS.  Dept.  D-29 

7021   Santa  Monica  Blvd.,  Hollywood  38,   Calif. 


79 


all  right — tomorrow  morning.'  Well!  When 
he  said  tomorrow  morning,  the  both  of  us 
almost  fainted!" 

For  all  today's  modern  methods,  there's 
nothing  that  quite  prepares  a  man  for  the 
magic  moment  when  he  hears  he's  a 
father.  As  Hal  recalls,  "It's  a  funny  thing, 
but  over  a  period  of  hours  there — you 
never  really  anticipate  the  flash  there's 
a  boy  or  a  girl.  You  just  don't  think  of 
what  it's  going  to  be  like  when  that  hap- 
pens. Throughout  the  day,  I  was  really 
just  geared  to,  'How's  Candy?'  " 

"She's  doing  fine,"  the  doctor  would 
assure  him. 

"Have  you  any  idea  how  long — ?"  No, 
they  had  no  exact  idea. 

And  again,  "How's  Candy?"  And 
again  .  .  . 

Around  five  P.M.,  when  the  baby's  god- 
father, who'd  been  waiting  with  Hal  all 
day,  had  gone  back  briefly  to  the  office 
at  NBC  to  clean  up  some  last-minute  de- 
tails, and  Hal  was  chatting  with  the  head 
of  the  hospital  and  sharing  a  convivial 
toast  with  him,  Dr.  Jerry  Salvatore 
came  in. 

"How's  Candy?"  said  Hal — automati- 
cally. 

"She's  fine,"  the  doctor  said.  "How  do 
you  feel?" 

"Just  fine,"  beamed  Hal. 

"Well,  that's  good — because  Candy  just 
had  a  baby  boy." 

At  which  point,  as  Hal  laughingly  re- 
calls, "I  hugged  the  doctor  and  I  went 
crazy.  I  waited  at  the  elevator  for  Candy 
to  come  down  from  the  labor  room  and 
she  was  punchy,  and  I  kissed  her  a  couple 
of  times,  and  we  both  got  intoxicated  from 
the  ether  they'd  given  her.  And  I  saw  my 
son — " 

He  didn't  look  like  any  beauty-contest 
winner  then,"  smiled  Candy.  "He  was  a 
healthy  little  boy  and  we  were  both 
thrilled  about  that.  He  was  cute,  very 
bright — and  that's  all  we  hoped  for.  We 
didn't  especially  pray  for  a  boy  or  a  girl — " 

"But  he  was  so  tiny!  It  was  a  blow  to 
my  ego,  you  know,"  grins  Hal.  "Because 
I  weighed  ten  pounds  and  my  sisters 
weighed  over  twelve— and  Candy  was 
pretty  heavy — I'd  just  assumed  we  were 
going  to  have  a  brute,  you  know.  And 
then,  this  little  five-pound,  thirteen-ounce 
male.  But  it  was  wonderful  and  I  thank 
God  for  it — because  it  meant  an  easier 
delivery  for  Candy. 

"And  Peter's  going  to  be  a  big  boy," 
his  father  goes  on  pleasurably.  "He  has 
huge  hands  and  huge  feet.  If  he  just 
grows  into  them,  he'll  be  about  six-foot- 
three.  You  can  tell  from  this  picture. 
Look  at  those  hands — " 

"He's  gaining  weight.  And  he  looks  just 
like  Hal  now,"  his  mother  notes. 

"This  kid  is  just  like  his  mother  and 
his  daddy,  really,"  Hal  interposes  gallantly. 
"I  was  hoping  the  baby  would  look  like 
Candy." 

"Not  since  it  was  a  boy,"  Candy  says 
firmly.  "He  looks  so  much  like  Hal.  He 
has  his  brown  eyes,  the  same  eyebrows. 
His  hair  is  very  dark  and  thick.  And 
you  can  tell  by  his  bone  structure — " 

"Well,  of  course,  it  would  seem  impos- 
sible to  tell  yet — but  there  is  his  bone 
structure,"  Hal  concedes  gracefully.  "He 
has  very  broad  shoulders — and  no  hips  at 
all,"  notes  the  former  Frisco  gridiron 
flash. 

"A    terrible    loneliness,"    Hal    describes 

the   three   weeks   when   he   had   to   leave 

Candy  and  make  a  picture  in  Hollywood — 

so  soon  after  their  baby  was  born.  "I  didn't 

even  know  our  little  boy  yet.    I  couldn't 

r    really    identify    myself    with    him,"    says 

v    Hal.    And  Candy  adds,  "We'd  just  gotten 

B    home    from    the    hospital.     Hal    had    only 

held  the  baby  two  times — three  times,  at 

most — when  he  had  to  leave.  .  .  ." 

80 


In  Hollywood  again  .  .  .  after  years  of 
skimping  and  working  and  hoping  ...  he 
realized  the  fulfillment  of  a  twenty-year 
dream  of  the  ambitious  teenager,  Hal 
Mendelson,  who'd  had  such  glowing  vi- 
sions— impatient  visions — of  life  beyond 
his  father's  delicatessen  store  in  San 
Francisco.  One  rainy  night,  he'd  hitch- 
hiked to  Hollywood  with  only  his  dreams 
to  sustain  him.  The  dream  of  being  an 
actor,  a  success  in  show  business  .  .  .  but, 
most  of  all,  becoming  a  motion  picture 
star. 

Starring  in  "Hear  Me  Good"  at  Para- 
mount Studios,  Hal  March  was  only  a  few 
blocks  from  the  place  on  Gower  Street 
where  he'd  lived  in  an  attic  (and  mostly 
on  hope)  for  so  long.  But  he  was  so  lonely 
for  Candy  and  the  family,  half  the  thrill 
was  gone. 

"We'd  only  been  married  a  year  and  a 
half — but  I  really  can't  remember  what  it 
was  like,  the  other  way,"  Hal  was  saying 
slowly  now.  "I  don't  like  being  away 
from  Candy.  And — at  the  risk  of  sound- 
ing maudlin — we'll  never  be  separated 
that  long  again.  Then,  too,  it  was  so  hard 
on  Candy,  having  to  move  to  the  country 
all  by  herself." 

In  spite  of  missing  Candy — and  visual- 
izing his  young  son  growing  up  without 
knowing  his  own  father — Hal  March  made 
plenty  of  laughter  on  the  sound  stage  at 
Paramount.  Together  with  producer- 
director  Don  McGuire  and  the  cast  and 
crew  of  "Hear  Me  Good,"  he  helped  revo- 
lutionize the  mechanics  of  making  movies 
for  the  whole  industry,  starring  in  a 
"quality"  comedy  which  was  shot  in  eight 
days!  Hal's  tough  conditioning  by  televi- 
sion, his  long  experience  in  every  medium 
and  his  infallible  timing  for  comedy  were 
invaluable.  Studio  executives  and  other 
stars  were  constant  and  admiring  visitors. 

"We  rehearsed  for  two  weeks  on  the 
set,  with  the  camera  and  crew  all  there 
planning  the  shots.  It  wasn't  too  tough, 
really.  My  conditioning  is  that  way  in 
TV — and  I've  got  a  lot  of  years  behind 
me,"  Hal  says  modestly  of  his  part  in 
this  fabulous  operation. 

Hollywood  was  also  impressed  by  Hal 
March's  humility,  his  open  appreciation 
of  his  "good  fortune,"  and  his  complete 
lack  of  temperament.  Studio  publicity 
men  marveled  at  his  graciousness  in  wel- 
coming visitors  and  in  signing  autographs 
for  them  in  the  commissary. 

Before  Peter  arrived,  at  a  cerebral  palsy 
telethon  Hal  headed  in  Jacksonville,  Flor- 
ida, the  public  pledged  $10,000  in  the 
baby's  name — "It  was  the  most  thrilling 
thing."  When  he  was  born,  there  were 
hundreds  of  wires  and  letters.  The  re- 
sponse from  fans  who  saw  his  picture 
flashed  on  the  TV  screen  on  The  $64,000 
Question,  when  Peter  was  two  hours  old, 
was  almost  unbelievable. 

"People  have  sent  him  so  many  gifts. 
Things  women  crochet,  like  sweaters  and 
booties  and  afghans,  you  know.  Things 
people  sit  down  and  make  that  take 
hours,"  Hal  says  gratefully.  They're  over- 
flowing Peter's  room  in  the  large  com- 
fortable two-storey  brick  house  the 
Marches  are  renting  in  Scarsdale  now. 

The  Marches  are  reveling  in  their  sub- 
urban living.  "It  takes  forty  minutes  to 
get  up  there  and  you  can't  find  it  without 
a  map — and  it's  fun.  The  kids  have  a  little 
plastic  pool  in  the  back  yard,  and  we  all 
have  bicycles,"  Candy  notes. 

They  have  a  year's  lease  on  the  com- 
fortable old  brick  house  with  the  beauti- 
fully landscaped  yard  "all  fenced  in  the 
back,  with  so  much  running  room  for  our 
three  kids"  and  their  diminutive  coffee- 
colored   dachshund,   Demitasse  the  Third. 

"There's  a  very  pretty  fieldstone  house 
we  have  our  hearts  set  on  to  buy  in  the 
Fox  Meadow  section  of  Scarsdale.    It  has 


three  bedrooms  and  two  maid's  rooms 
now,  but  we're  going  to  make  four  bed- 
rooms and  one  maid's  room — which  is 
about  right  for  our  family."  They  plan 
traditional  furnishings,  generously  inter- 
spersed with  Candy's  beloved  antiques.  As 
they  say,  it's  "one  of  those  houses  built 
to  last  hundreds  of  years" — which  is  also 
right  for  their  family. 

There's  no  commuting  problem  in  the 
country.  Hal  goes  to  New  York  twice  a 
week  for  his  new  NBC-TV  show,  What's 
It  For?  But  he  leaves  late  enough  in  the 
morning  to  miss  those  who  are  jetting  to 
their  jobs  along  the  freeway.  Every  Tues- 
day, he  leaves  the  house  around  seven 
P.M.  for  a  leisurely  drive  in  for  CBS-TV's 
The  $64,000  Question.  "There's  no  traffic 
on  the  east  side  of  the  highway  at  that 
time  of  evening,"  Hal  observes,  "and  I 
love  the  drive.  At  ten-thirty,  I'm  out  of 
the  studio  and  on  my  way  home.  It's  just 
a  forty-minute  drive — a  beautiful  drive," 
he  enthuses. 

In  Hal's  carefully  considered  opinion, 
he's  a  very  good  father.  "I  think  I'm  a 
darned  good  father,  really,"  he  laughs.  "Of 
course,  we  have  the  other  two  children, 
Stevie  and  Missy,  by  Candy's  former 
marriage  (to  Mel  Torme),  and  I'm  com- 
pletely devoted  to  them.  We  were  mar- 
ried when  Missy  was  ten  months  old  and, 
whatever  problems  there  were  .  .  .  I've 
been  around.  I've  been  under  fire — and 
I  like  being  a  father  very  much." 

But  however  conditioned  the  father,  an 
infant  son  offers  a  few  problems  neither 
Hal  March  nor  all  the  child-psychology 
books  available  for  research  can  answer 
satisfactorily.  "I've  read  the  books  and 
I  think  books  make  a  lot  of  sense,  but 
I've  had  many  problems  and  I've  run  to 
the  books — and  I  can't  find  the  answer," 
Candy  laughs  now. 

"The  book  we've  read  really  is  Dr. 
Spock's  .  .  .  and  it  certainly  does  tell  you 
about  child  behavior.  It  tells  you  almost 
to  the  word  what  a  child  is  going  to  say 
at  two  or  two-and-a-half — exactly  the 
phraseology  he  or  she  uses,"  Hal  marvels. 
It  doesn't,  however,  fully  cover  what  a 
parent  should  always  do  by  way  of  reply. 

"It  only  lets  us  know  our  child  is  not 
unusual,"   smiles   Candy. 

"Yes,  it  lets  us  know  what  to  expect  .  .  . 
well,  usually,"  Hal  amends. 

1  ogether,  too,  Hal  and  Candy  immedi- 
ately shared  the  problem  of  getting  Missy 
to  accept  her  baby  brother.  "When  Peter 
first  came  home,  Missy  would  gladly  have 
stuck  a  knife  in  his  back,"  Candy  recalls. 
"But  we  seemingly  ignored  him,  and 
made  sure  she  got  her  proper  attention. 
We'd  go  into  the  nursery  and  see  him 
when  Missy  was  asleep.  Then,  out  of 
curiosity,  Missy  would  go  into  the  nur- 
sery and  look  at  him  and  walk  out — and 
she  couldn't  care  less.  One  day  he  started 
to  cry  and  Missy  came  running  to  say, 
'Peter's  crying — Peter's  crying,  Mom.'  I 
offered  to  let  her  hold  him,  and  she  walked 
away  in  disdain.  Then,  out  of  the  same 
curiosity,  one  day  she  wanted  to  hold 
him.  She  threw  her  arms  out  and  took 
him,  and  now  she  loves  him.  She  kisses 
him  and  he's  her  brother — but  it  took  a 
little  time,  you  know." 

"Basically,  our  philosophy  with  the  kids 
is  to  give  them  security  and  authority  and 
plenty  of  love,"  says  Hal.  "And,  above 
all,  our  relationship  with  them  is  com- 
pletely honest.  All  questions  are  answered 
honestly.  Of  course,  they  don't  ask  me 
questions  I  can't  answer — yet.  They're 
not  old  enough.  Right  now,  it's  pretty 
even — because  I  think  like  a  four-year- 
old.  When  Stevie  gets  to  be  six,  he  may 
be  a  problem  in  this  department,"  he 
laughs. 

"When  I  got  married."  as  Candy  says 
now,    "Stevie    acquired    another    dad,   and 


he  started  calling  Hal  'Daddy'  right  away. 
But  it  was  'Daddy  Hal'  and  'Daddy  Mel,' 
and  it  was  all  a  little  confusing.  Hal  sat 
down  and  explained  it  to  him,  and  after 
a  while  there  were  no  more  questions,  no 
problems.  But,  when  his  dad  got  married, 
Stevie  didn't  understand  why  he  got  an- 
other mommy  and  acquired  an  eight- 
year-old  sister — who's  just  adorable,  in- 
cidentally— and  it  was  very  confusing  to 
him.  Telling  him  was  a  big  problem," 
Candy  remembers  very  well. 

"But  we  explained  it  to  him,  and  there's 
no  mystery  now.  Of  course,  he  doesn't 
understand  the  machinations  of  all  that's 
happened.  He's  much  too  young  for  that. 
But  he  isn't  confused,  which  is  a  good 
thing.  He  can  exercise  his  curiosity  with- 
out inhibition,  without  fear,"  Hal  goes  on 
seriously.  "The  way  we  explained  it,  he's 
a  very  lucky  little  boy.  He  has  two  dad- 
dies and  mommies,  he  has  a  sister  he 
lives  with  and  another  sister  he  can  visit, 
he  has  a  baby  brother,  two  houses  and  two 
dogs.  He  has  twice  as  much  as  most  other 
little  boys. 

"With  love  and  security,  there's  no 
problem.  And  there  is  no  undue  punish- 
ment, ever. .  When  Stevie  is  reprimanded 
for  something,  he's  told  why  he  is — on  a 
broader  scope,  in  terms  of  philosophy  and 
life,  other  people's  feelings  and  other 
people's  possessions,"  continues  Hal.  "He's 
getting  a  well-rounded  education.  He's 
going  to  be  the  big  boy  in  the  family — 
he's  going  to  take  care  of  the  other  two 
kids  .  .  .  and  so  he's  got  to  be  ready." 

"He  isn't  always  right  or  good — but 
we're  trying,"  Candy  adds. 

"I  wouldn't  want  him  always  to  be 
good,  honey,"  Hal  says  quickly.  "When  a 
kid  gets  to  be  four,  he's  feeling  his  oats. 
He'd  be  the  dullest  kid  in  the  world  if  he 
were  good  all  the  time.  Every  once  in  a 
while,  when  he  gets  rough,  he's  going  to 
get  a  spanking.  Bt»i  it's  not  just  hitting 
i  and  walking  away.  I  believe  in  a  little 
spanking  and  a  little  loving — I  think 
you've  got  to  hit  'em  and  hold  'em — and 
then  tell  them  exactly  why  you  did  it. 
How  much  it  hurt  you  to  do  it.  I  tell 
Stevie  this.  I  explain  I  owe  this  to  him. 
And  he's  beginning  to  understand. 

"But  he's  a  wonderful  little  boy,  he's 
no  problem.  And  he's  going  to  be  a  fine 
man.  He's  got  tremendous  spirit,  and  it's 
just  great.  And  Missy — this  little  girl  has 
all  the  prerequisites  for  being  a  fantastic 
woman.  She's  physically  beautiful,  she 
has  a  tremendous  capacity  both  for  giving 
and  receiving  love.  She's  a  little  vixen," 
he  says  glowingly. 

As  for  Candy,  he  says,  "I'll  never  be 
able  to  figure  out  what  I've  done  to  de- 
serve this  girl. 

"We  have  visions  of  having  a  wonderful 
i  family,"  he  goes  on,  planning  ahead — 
J  away  ahead.  "We  want  the  kids  to  be 
friends  of  ours  after  they  leave  home. 
\  And,  by  having  a  completely  honest  rela- 
tionship with  them  from  the  beginning, 
it  seems  to  be  going  in  that  direction. 
When  Stevie  and  Missy  and  Peter  get 
'  married,  we'd  like  for  them  to  come  and 
f>  visit  us  as  friends,  not  just  feel  an  obliga- 
tion to  us  as  parents — 

"I  sound  like  the  first  father  who  ever 
happened,"  Hal  breaks  off  suddenly — and 
immediately  picks  up  steam.  "But  the 
way  it  is  .  .  .  with  Stevie,  four,  and 
Missy,  two,  and  Peter,  now  going  on  one — 
it's  such  a  wonderful  family.  I  want  both 
the  boys  to  be  athletic,  and  it  seems  they 
are.  Stevie's  athletically  inclined  now, 
and  Peter — well,  he  moves  his  head  and 
his  hands — he's  very  athletic,"  his  father 
laughs.  "But  the  vision  I  have  is  of  these 
two  boys  taking  care  of  this  beautiful 
little  girl,  in  the  middle." 

Hal  also  has  visions  of  their  future,  and 
helping  them  to  prepare  for  it.  In  show 
business?    "Well  ...  all  I  can  say  is  show 


business  has  been  wonderful  to  me.  If 
Missy  were  to  go  into  show  business,  I 
would  like  for  her  ultimately  to  quit  and 
get  married — like  her  mother.  You  know 
Candy  was  well  on  her  way  to  a  very 
successful  career  when  she  quit.  In  fact, 
since  we've  been  married,  she's  had  a 
million  offers  to  go  back." 

Today,  Hal  March's  own  success  in  show 
business  is  assured.  His  public  returns 
his  love — with  good  measure.  There's  The 
$64,000  Question  on  CBS-TV.  And  What's 
It  For?  on  NBC-TV.  Paramount  is  all 
raves  about  his  first  starring  movie,  "Hear 
Me  Good."  Spectaculars  are  being  planned 
specially  for  him,  and  movie  scripts  are 
being  showered  on  him. 

But,  as  Hal  says,  "I'm  still  under  con- 
tract to  Revlon.  I  can  only  shoot  pic- 
tures during  the  summers.  If  I  get  lucky 
with  my  first — if  there  is  going  to  be  a 
motion  picture  career — we'll  headquarter 
in  the  country  at  Scarsdale  and  the  whole 
family  will  commute  to  Hollywood.  One 
thing  sure,  I'll  never  be  separated  from 
them.  .  .  .  I'll  never  go  through  that  again. 
What's  happened  to  the  happy  old  self- 
sufficient  bachelor  I  used  to  be?" 

"We  went  to  a  party  the  other  night," 
Candy  says  teasingly,  "and  many  of  his 
good  old  bachelor  friends  were  there. 
They  still  have  the  same  problem — they're 
still  all  looking  for  a  good  woman  to  settle 
down  with.    I  feel  so  sorry  for  bachelors." 

"So  do  I,  honey,"  Hal  agrees.  And,  look- 
ing at  a  snapshot  of  their  youngest,  Pe- 
ter's father  repeats  for  good  measure,  "So 
do  I." 

Next  to  being  a  husband,  being  a  father 
is  Hal  March's  favorite  role.  And  he 
thinks  of  his  future  in  terms  of  their  own 
— measuring  success  and  happiness  ac- 
cordingly. .  .  .  Hal  Mendelson — who  set 
out  in  a  rain  storm  across  the  Oakland 
Bay  Bridge,  leaving  the  lights  of  San 
Francisco  far  behind  him — has  found 
brighter  lights  than  he  ever  envisioned. 
After  twenty  years,  a  pay-off  beyond  his 
youngest  dreams.  But  he's  thankful  for 
the  struggle  getting  there.  For  the  ex- 
perience. 

"Candy  and  I've  discussed  this  many 
times,"  says  Hal.  "We're  very  grateful 
for  what's  happened  .  .  .  for  what's  still 
happening  .  .  .  for  the  financial  rewards 
and  everything  else.  But  I'm  grateful  for 
all  of  it.  There  are  no  unpleasant  mem- 
ories. You  know,  fellows  in  the  business 
are  always  coming  up  to  me  and  telling 
me  how  happy  they  are  for  me  today. 
Saying,  'Son-of-a-gun,  you  deserve  it 
after  twenty  years.' 

"Sure,  there  were  twenty  years — and 
there  were  many  times  I  went  without 
eating — but  it  didn't  bother  me  too  much. 
Actually,  I  had  a  ball  much  of  the  time. 
And  there  is  satisfaction  when  you  finally 
get  somewhere  in  this  business,  knowing 
you  can  truthfully  say  you've  done  it  on 
your  own. 

"You've  had  breaks,  of  course,"  Hal 
goes  on.  "Like  The  $64,000  Question — 
that's  the  greatest  break  that  ever  hap- 
pened for  me.  But  .  .  .  you  get  ready  for 
that.  You  learn  your  craft  over  twenty 
years.  You  go  without  work — and,  every 
time  you  get  up  to  bat,  you  learn  some- 
thing more.  You  grow.  It's  all  wonderful 
experience." 

"You  grow  up  a  better  man,  too,"  Candy 
adds  quietly. 

"That's  what  I  mean.  That's  the  thing, 
really,"  Hal  says  slowly.  "You  grow  up 
better — you  hope." 

Reward  enough  today  for  Hal,  if  .  .  . 
because  of  those  years  .  .  .  he's  a  father 
who's  better  equipped  to  give  Stevie, 
Missy  and  Peter  Lindsey  March  a  more 
honest  evaluation  of  life.  To  be  better 
able  to  prepare  them  for  whatever  world 
— whatever   future — may  be   theirs. 


MAKE  BIG  MONEY 

□  Full  or  Part  Time! 
LJ  High  Commissions! 
^J  No  Experience! 

H  No  Age  Requirements! 

□  Free  Sales  Kit! 
~^]  No  Investment! 

□  No   Obligation! 

Rush  vour  name  and  address  today  for  amaz- 
ing new  sales  kit.  It's  absolutely  FREE.  Gives 
you  startling  information.  Tells  you  how  to 
make  big  money  fast  and  often  by  helping  us 
take  orders  for  magazine  subscriptions.  It's 
easy!  No  experience  needed!  Become  our  per- 
sonal magazine  representative  in  your  com- 
munity. Free  kit  works  like  magic  to  put 
dollars  into  your  pocket!  You  don't  invest 
a  penny  of  your  money  now  or  any  time.  We 
supply  everything  you  need  free.  Act  now. 

Paste  coupon  below  on  post 
card  and  mail  today!  Extra 
cash  is  yours  for  the  asking! 

I 1 

I   Subscription  Agents  Division, 

|   Macfadden  Publications, 

j  205  E.  42  St..  New  York  17.  N.  Y. 

j  YES!  Rush  FREE  Money-Making   Infor-   j 

|  mation  at  once.  I'm  ready  to  start. 

I  I 

I  Name i 

'  Address I 

I  I 

|   City State 


Send  songs,  poe 


^  HOLLYWOOD  TUNESMITHS   »««- 


ihed.Let  us  help  you  be  c 

1GQ1  No.Gower  St.,0ept.D 


California 


Bladder 'Weakness' 

If  worried  by  "Bladder  Weakness"  (Getting  Up 
Nights  or  Bed  Wetting,  too  frequent,  burning  or 
itching  urination)  or  Strong  Smelling,  Cloudy 
Urine,  due  to  common  Kidney  and  Bladder  Irri- 
tations, try  CYSTEX  for  quick  help.  30  years  use 
prove  safety  for  young  and  old.  Ask  druggist  for 
CYSTEX  under  guarantee  of  money-back  if  not 
satisfied.  See  how  fast  you  improve. 

ANY  PHOTO  ENLARGED 

Size  8  x  10  Inches 


49 


on  DOUBLE-WEIGHT  Paper 

Same  price  for  full  length  or  bast 
form,  groups,  landscapes,  pet  ani- 
mals, etc.,  or  enlargements  of  any 
part  of  a  group  picture.  Original  is 
returned  with  roar  enlargement. 

On  orderB  of  2  or  more  we  will 
send  you  one  25c  Miniature  Por- 
trait, size  4'  x  6'.  FREE.  Mail 
photo,  negative  orsnapshot(any  size)  and  receive 
yoar  enlargement,  guaranteed  fadeless,  on  beau- 
tiful double -weight  portrait  quality  paper. 
C.  O.  D.'s  accepted  on  orders  of  2  or  more. 
Take  advantage  of  thiB  amazing;  offer.    Send  your  photos  today. 

Professional  Art  Studios.  544  S.  Main,  Dept,  37- W,  Princeton,  Illinois 


FREE! 


i    PSORIASIS 


SPOT 


(SCALY    SKIN    TROUBLE) 

DGRmOIL 


TRY  IT  YOURSELF  no 

matter  how  long  you  have 

suffered.  Write  for  FREE 

book  on  Psoriasis  and 

DERMOIL.  Send  lOc 

for  trial  bottle  to  make 

our  "One  Spot  Test". 


Se*u/jvr 

\generous 
Atrial 


Don't  be  embarrassed 
with  Psoriasis,  the  ugly, 
scaly  skin  disease.  TRY 
dermoil.  Amazing  re- 
sults reported  by  many 
grateful  users  for  24 
years.  With  DERMOIL  It 
Is  possible  that  ugly  scaly  patches 
on  body  or  scalp  may  be  gradually  removed  and  the  an- 
noying Itching  relieved,  while  the  skin  becomes  pliable 
and  soft  as  the  redness  is  reduced.  Many  doctors  use  the 
non-staining  Dermoil  formula.  Must  give  definite  benefit 
or  money  back.  Sold  by  leading  Drug  stores. 
Write  today  LAKE  LABORATORIES,  Dept.  3804 
Box  3  92  5,  Strathmoor  Station,  Detroit  27,  Mich. 


81 


You  Asked  For  It 


(Continued  from  page  48) 
physical  shape  for  a  man  of  his  age.  But 
it  seems  that,  though  the  years  had  been 
kind  to  his  body,  his  memory  had  been 
less  fortunate.  When  he  instructed  the 
crew  about  how  much  of  a  charge  of 
powder  to  put  in  the  cannon,  producer 
Chamberlin  instinctively  sensed  trouble. 
He  tried  to  suggest,  as  tactfully  as  pos- 
sible, one  rehearsal  of  the  stunt.  The 
old  man  scorned  even  one  run-through — 
said  he  could  do  the  act  blindfolded  with 
his  hands  tied  behind  his  back.  Chamber- 
lin agreed  that  he  was  certain  this  was 
true,  but  quietly  and  firmly  insisted  that 
the  cannon  be  fired  once  before  the  show. 

This  proved  a  flash  of  intuitive  genius 
on  Chamberlin's  part.  With  a  mighty 
roar,  the  cannon  went  off,  sending  its 
projectile  zooming  through  the  side  of 
the  studio  and  into  an  adjacent  parking 
lot.  By  happy  coincidence,  someone  had 
thought  to  aim  it  through  an  open  door, 
so  no  damage  was  done. 

Of  course,  the  payoff  on  this  one  wasn't 
exactly  pleasant,  even  so.  Horrified  at 
what  might  have  happened,  the  crew 
erred  on  the  side  of  caution  when  they 
re-charged  the  cannon  just  before  the 
stunt  went  on  camera.  With  a  futile  little 
"Ploop"  the  cannon  ejected  the  cannon- 
ball,  which  soared  weakly  in  a  sad  little 
arc — and  fell  smack  on  the  toes  of  Can- 
nonball  Richards! 

By  far  the  greatest  number  of  re- 
quests which  come  into  the  show's  office 
concern  animals.  And  of  those  requests, 
a  large  percentage  involve  alligators. 
Chamberlin  admits  to  being  somewhat 
puzzled  by  this  fascination  the  predatory 
swamp  creatures  hold  for  the  American 
televiewing  public.  But  he's  agreeable, 
and  goes  about  trying  to  set  up  as  many 
of  the  suggested  stunts  involving  alliga- 
tors as  can  be  worked  into  the  show. 

There's  one  such  stunt,  however,  about 
which  he'd  rather  not  be  reminded.  It 
was  to  involve  the  classic  wrestling  match 
— between  a  man  and  an  alligator.  An 
elaborate  set  was  built,  so  that  on  camera 
it  would  appear  as  though  a  chunk  of 
Okefenokee  swamp  had  been  transported 
to  Hollywood.  Into  the  pool  on  this 
set  were  dumped  two  gigantic  alligators, 
not  just  one.  This  was  a  sort  of  insur- 
ance, Chamberlin  felt.  If  one  alligator 
seemed  disinclined  to  wrestle,  they'd 
have  a  stand-in  handy.    So  he  thought. 

The  rehearsals  went  along  beautifully. 
The  man  who  was  to  do  the  wrestling 
came  on-camera,  poked  a  long  stick  down 
into  the  studio-made  swamp,  and  up 
reared  an  alligator.  The  two  set  about 
with  a  great  thrashing,  and  with  grunts, 
groans  and  growls  which  would  have 
done  credit  to  a  match  between  Gorgeous 
George  and  Lord  Hamilton.  As  the  re- 
hearsal finished,  everyone  dashed  around 
congratulating  everyone  else  on  what  a 
wonderful,  stupendous,  thrilling  stunt  they 
were  about  to  present. 

Everyone,  that  is,  except  the  alligators. 
Now  a  small  bit  of  nature  lore  which 
Chamberlin  had  yet  to  learn — alligators 
are  lazy  characters,  who  much  prefer 
not  to  wrestle,  if  they  can  manage  to 
sneak  out  of  it.  And  sneaking  out  of 
things  is  one  of  their  great  talents.  So 
these  two  fugitives  from  a  ladies'  hand- 
bag factory  got  their  snouts  together, 
poked  around  that  man-made  pool,  and 
found  a  hiding  spot  under  a  ledge. 

Comes  time  for  the   show.    On-camera 

J     strides     the     alligator-wrestling    man,     a 

'    convincing  parcel  of  muscles.     He  pokes 

his  long  stick  into  the  pool.    No  alligator. 

He    pokes    again,    but    still    no    alligator. 

The    cameras    are    grinding    away,    the! 

82  - 


second  hand  on  the  big  clock  is  making 
dizzying  revolutions.  Still  no  alligator. 
Literally  minutes  later,  just  about  the  time 
the  man  was  scheduled  to  have  pinned 
the  beast's  shoulders  to  the  mat — there 
was  still  no  sign  of  an  alligator.  The 
camera  panned  off  the  man,  still  poking 
frantically,  but  futilely,  about  the  stage 
pool.  Off  camera,  Chamberlin  claims, 
great  tufts  of  hair  littered  the  studio 
floor,  tossed  there  by  despairing  techni- 
cians who  had  torn  it  from  their  own 
scalps. 

Chamberlin  diagnoses  the  trouble  on 
that  one  as  "too  much  rehearsal."  There 
have  been  a  number  of  bloopers  on  You 
Asked  For  It,  where  animals  were  in- 
volved. Take  the  case  of  the  walking 
fish.  Yes,  he  really  walked — propelled 
himself  up  a  slightly  inclined  board,  into 
a  tank.  The  only  trouble  there  was  that 
the  director  insisted  on  so  much  rehearsal 
that  the  fish  became  fatigued.  When 
the  show  went  on  the  air,  said  fish 
couldn't  so  much  as  flutter  a  fin. 

The  same  type  thing  happened  with  the 
monkeys.  Someone  wrote  in  suggest- 
ing that  they  prove  or  disprove  the  old 
phrase,  "more  fun  than  a  barrel  of  mon- 
keys." Were  a  barrel  of  monkeys  fun? 
they  wanted  to  know.  Chamberlin  has 
the  answer.     In  rehearsal,  they're  a  ball! 

The  whole  barrelfull  of  squirming 
simians  had  been  set  down  inside  a 
wooden  enclosure.  Into  the  walls  of  that 
enclosure,  small  apertures  had  been  cut 
for  the  lens  of  the  cameras  to  peek 
through.  In  rehearsal,  the  monkeys  piled 
out  of  that  barrel,  heels  over  head, 
scrambling  out  in  a  perfectly  riotous 
fashion  all  over  the  interior  of  the  en- 
closure. The  crew  was  convulsed  at 
their  antics.     But  that  was   at  rehearsal! 

By  show  time,  those  monkeys  had 
smartened  up.  Once  the  trap-door-type 
top  of  the  barrel  had  been  pulled  away,  as 
the  stunt  went  on  the  air,  they'd  im- 
proved their  escape  time.  They  were  out 
of  that  barrel  so  fast  the  cameras  couldn't 
even  catch  the  action.  They  not  only 
left  the  barrel  behind,  but  streaked 
through  the  leftis-holes  in  the  enclosure, 
and  on  out  over  the  shoulders  of  the 
cameramen,  into  the  studio.  It  took  a 
full  day  to  comb  them  out  of  the  rafters. 
Monkeys  aren't  very  funny  to  You  Asked 
For  It  staffers  anymore. 

With  an  active  six  years  behind  them, 
the  crew  on  the  show  has  become  quite 
blase  about  animals — 'most  any  animals. 
Not  long  ago,  someone  came  into  an 
outer  room  at  rehearsal  time,  heard  an 
unusual  noise  coming  from  the  rehearsal 
stage,  and  inquired  what  was  going  on. 
One  of  the  crew  shrugged  his  shoulders 
nonchalantly,  and  replied,  "Oh,  some 
crazy  horse  is  in  there  roller-skating." 
Visions  which  would  put  the  ordinary 
man  on  the  wagon  for  months  are  so 
common  to  the  You  Asked  For  It  crew 
as  to  rarely  rate  a  second  glance. 

They  needed  more  than  a  second  glance, 
however,  the  night  they  showed  the  flea 
circus.  Or  the  night  they  didn't  show  it, 
if  you  insist  on  accuracy.  A  nice  payoff 
to  this  story  would  be  that  the  per- 
formers had  taken  off  to  inhabit  a  canine 
act  which  followed — but  it  didn't  happen 
quite  like  that.  The  camera  just  wasn't 
able  to  pick  up  the  antics  of  these  minia- 
ture acrobats  and  aerialists.  So  the  viewer 
was  left  to  stare  at  a  blank  screen,  all 
the  while  listening  to  Art  Baker's  en- 
raptured eye-witness  account  of  their 
feats.  Chamberlin  allows  as  how  it  may 
have  worked  fairly  well  for  viewers  with 
active  imaginations,  but  others  were  prob- 
ably  pretty   puzzled. 

That  was  just  one  instance  of:  ;a  stunt 


going  sour,  and  leaving  some  viewers  with 
the  mistaken  impression  that  the  program 
was  trying  to  spoof  them.  Another— and 
more  embarrassing — instance  occurred 
when  the  show  drafted  Jack  LaLanne, 
physical  culturist.  LaLanne  was  sched- 
uled to  do  1,000  pushups  during  the 
half-hour  the  show  was  on  the  air.  The 
show  opened  with  the  camera  on  La- 
Lanne, off  to  a  brave,  strong  start  with 
his  first-score  pushups.  The  plan  was  to 
pan  back  to  him  midway  through  the 
show,  and  again  as  the  show  ended.  But 
there  had  been  a  slight  slip-up — this  time 
in  the  script  department.  They'd  stuck 
the  word  "consecutive"  into  the  announce- 
ment of  LaLanne's  feat,  and  that  wasn't 
the  way  Chamberlin  and  LaLanne  had 
planned  it  at  all.  The  strong  man  was 
going  to  do  1,000  pushups  during  the 
half-hour.  That  part  was  true.  But  he 
planned  on  taking  a  breather  now  and 
then,  spotting  a  few  seconds'  rest  here  and 
there — say,  after  every  100  pushups.  The 
way  the  announcement  was  written,  and 
read,  it  sounded  as  though  he  were  going 
to  start  with  pushup  No.  1,  and  not  stop 
until  he'd  executed  No.  1,000. 

So,  when  the  camera  panned  back  on 
him  halfway  through  the  show,  there  he 
was,  lying  on  the  mat,  with  his  face  on 
the  floor.  He  looked  up,  spotted  the 
camera's  red  eye  glowing  in  his  direction, 
and  frantically  took  off  on  another  spurt 
of  pushups.  And,  just  to  make  matters 
worse,  the  same  thing  happened  at  the 
end  of  the  show.  Although  Art  Baker 
had  spotted  that  "consecutive"  in  the 
script  by  then,  and  tried  to  explain  to  the 
audience  that  LaLanne  had,  indeed, 
totalled  1,000  pushups  during  the  half- 
hour  even  if  they  hadn't  been  consecu- 
tive, Chamberlin  is  convinced  that  the 
majority  of  the  televiewers  thought  they 
were  the  victims  of  a  hoax. 

An  off-stage  near-crisis  occurred  when 
"Cubby,  the  Cowardly  Lion,"  was  sched- 
uled to  appear  on  the  show.  Baker  had 
been  reassured  that  no  one  had  ever  told 
the  beast  that  he  wa»  a  lion,  and  that 
Cubby  was  afraid  of  his  own  shadow. 
Art  cheerfully  agreed  to  pose  for  publicity 
pictures  alongside  this  ill-adjusted  king 
of  the   animal  world. 

But,  when  Art  and  the  network  pub- 
licity man  arrived  on  the  set,  they  found 
that  something  extra  had  been  added. 
Among  those  present  was  another  lion, 
who  had  made  news  a  few  days  before 
by  taking  sample  bites  out  of  several 
Southern  Californians.  And  the  poor 
publicity  man  hadn't  the  foggiest  notion 
as  to  which  lion  was  which.  That  time, 
Art  settled  for  several  poses  poking  an 
experimental  finger  through  the  bars  of 
one  of  the  lion's  cages — he  still  has  the 
finger,  so  he  figures  it  was  Cubby's  cage. 

On  still  another  occasion,  a  snake 
trainer  was  to  do  a  spot  on  the  show. 
Although  no  particular  lover  of  reptiles, 
Baker  has  never  had  any  special  fear  of 
them,  and  agreed  readily  enough  to  pose 
with  them  for  pictures.  The  photographer 
decided  to  take  some  shots  first  of  the 
trainer,  with  a  slithery  shoulderfiil  of 
snakeskin.  After  the  first  couple  of  shots, 
he  requested  the  trainer  to  move  his 
right  arm  to  a  slightly  different  position. 

The  trainer  was  eager  to  comply,  but 
unable.  As  he  explained  very  cheerfully, 
it  was  only  minutes  before  Baker  and  the 
photographer  arrived  on  the  scene  that  one 
of  the  snakes  had  bitten  him,  and  his 
arm  was  temporarily  paralyzed.  That 
time,  Baker  suddenly  remembered  an  ur- 
gent   appointment    he    had    across    town. 

Not  all  the  stunts  presented  have  been 
so, ;  optimistically    complicated .  as    that,,  of 


course.  A  few  have  been  tinged  with 
tragedy.  There  was  the  reunion  of  a 
company  of  old-time  firemen,  complete 
with  the  horse-drawn  engine  they'd  used. 
It  was  a  nostalgic  bit,  and  obviously  too 
exciting  for  one  of  the  old-timers.  Within 
hours  after  they  were  off  the  air,  he 
suffered  a  heart  attack  and  died. 

Other  dramatic  repercussions  have  had 
happier  endings.  On  one  show  last  year, 
a  new  method  of  resuscitation  was  dem- 
onstrated, a  method  highly  recommended 
for  use  on  victims  of  electrical  shock. 
Within  a  month  after  the  show  had  been 
presented,  the  staff  received  two  thrilling 
letters.  One  told  how  a  man  had  saved 
the  life  of  his  partner  at  work,  when  the 
partner  accidentally  touched  a  high-volt- 
age source.  Having  watched  the  new 
method  closely  when  it  was  shown  on 
You  Asked  For  It,  the  man  was  able  to 
apply  it,  and  revive  his  partner. 

A  few  days  later,  a  similar  letter  ar- 
rived, telling  how  a  woman  motorist  had 
come  across  an  accident  victim  along- 
side a  highway.  His  car  had  hit  an  elec- 
tric line  pole,  a  wire  had  fallen,  striking 
the  man.  He  was  in  shock  when  she 
reached  him.  She,  too,  had  "learned" 
the  method  from  You  Asked  For  It — and 
saved  this  stranger's  life.  Somehow,  re- 
membering those  letters,  Chamberlin  is 
able  to  shrug  off  most  of  the  times  when 
the  stunts  didn't  quite  jell. 

There  have  been  a  few  things  viewers 
asked  for,  but  which  the  show  staff  found 
impossible  to  provide.  Not  long  ago,  after 
one  segment  showed  by  speeded-up  pho- 
tography the  frantic  antics  a  housewife 
goes  through  during  the  course  of  a  single 
day,  a  viewer  wrote  in  with  a  brilliant 
suggestion  for  a  variation  on  the  same 
theme.  Why  not  show,  she  suggested, 
what    President    Eisenhower    does    in    a 


single  day,  using  this  same  speeded-up 
movie  technique.  It  would  have  been  a 
wonderful  bit,  Chamberlin  is  quick  to 
agree.  But  they  knew,  without  asking, 
that    it    would    be    impossible    to    obtain. 

Among  the  few  requests  which  couldn't 
be  fulfilled  have  been  those  asking  the 
identity  of  the  girls  in  the  Old  Gold 
dancing  cigarette  packs — a  view  of  The 
Lone  Ranger,  unmasked — the  identity  of 
Jimmy  Durante's  "Mrs.  Calabash."  For 
various  and  undoubtedly  valid  reasons, 
Old  Gold  and  The  Lone  Ranger's  sponsor 
and  Schnozzola  have  all  refused  to  divulge 
the  information  requested. 

Not  a  few  of  the  requests  which  come 
in  from  viewers  ask  that  Art  Baker 
participate  in  some  stunt.  But  the  one 
that  took  the  cake,  so  far  as  Chamberlin 
is  concerned,  came  from  a  disgruntled 
viewer  who  suggested:  "Have  Art  Baker 
go  jump  in  the  lake!" 

So  they  did.  The  crew  moved,  bag  and 
camera,  out  to  suburban  Toluca  Lake. 
Art  poised  on  the  edge  of  this  body  of 
water  (impressive  in  size  in  Southern 
California,  but  scarcely  a  self-respecting 
duck  pond  in  the  Midwest) .  And  then 
he  jumped  in,  with  the  camera  following 
him  the  whole  splashing  way.  It's  dubious 
if  the  lake  is  deep  enough  for  Baker  to 
have  got  wet  all  over  in  just  one  jump — 
but,  on  camera,  it  came  off  fine. 

And  the  thing  which  reassures  Cham- 
berlin is  this:  Although  they'd  had  three 
requests,  over  the  years,  for  Baker,  to 
jump  in  the  lake — they  got  nine  letters 
from  viewers  who  vigorously  objected. 
In  no  uncertain  terms,  they  huffed  and 
puffed  about  "that  nice  Mr.  Baker"  being 
subjected  to  such  indignities. 

"And  as  long  as  our  audience  is  three- 
to-one  for  us,"  Chamberlin  points  out, 
"we're  in  business." 


Love  at  Second  Glance 


(Continued  from  page  56) 

When  this  romance  had  ended,  Mary 
Lou's  family  was  worried  as  to  how  she 
would  take  it — and  so  was  Marilyn.  Would 
she  sit  and  brood,  mope  over  the  past, 
and  refuse  to  meet  new  men?  After  all 
these  years  of  going  steadily  with 
"George"  (that  isn't  his  real  name),  Mary 
Lou  herself  wondered  if  she  would  be 
able  to  adjust  herself  to  new  dates  with 
other  boys.  But  Marilyn  was  determined 
to  see  to  it  that  Mary  Lou  didn't  mope. 
She  kept  urging  her  to  go  out,  and  she 
arranged  her  first  date  after  the  break-up. 

"It  was,"  Mary  Lou  confesses,  "like  go- 
ing on  a  date  for  the  first  time  in  my 
life.  After  talking  to  one  boy  for  so 
many  years,  it  seemed  to  me  I  wouldn't 
know  what  to  say  to  anyone  else.  But, 
once  I  got  to  Marilyn's  house  and  met 
him,  it  wasn't  so  bad.  I  don't  know  what 
in  the  world  I  would  have  done  without 
Marilyn." 

Marilyn  was  obviously  determined  to 
play  Cupid.  And,  one  night  in  October, 
1954,  she  really  succeeded  in  this  role. 
That  was  the  night  she  was  giving  a  big 
Hallowe'en  party.  It  was  to  be  informal 
(no  costumes)  but  lots  of  fun.  Marilyn 
had  a  hunch  that  Mary  Lou  and  Joe 
Dialon,  the  brother  of  one  of  her  girl 
friends,  would  like  each  other.  Acting  on 
that  hunch,  she  invited  his  sister  to  the 
party.  Then  she  said,  "Would  your 
brother  be  interested  in  coming?  We'd 
love  to  have  him.  I  know  a  girl  I'm 
sure  he'd  enjoy  meeting." 

Since  it  was  to  be  an  informal  party, 
Mary  Lou  dressed  very  simply,  in  a 
gray  skirt  and  gray  sweater.  Her  mother 
sighed,  "My  goodness,  you  look  dull."  But 
Joe  obviously  didn't  feel  that  way  about 


it.  His  dark  brown  eyes  lighted  up  when 
he  saw  Mary  Lou.  And  Mary  Lou  cer- 
tainly felt  no  pain  meeting  Joe.  ("He's 
five-feet-eleven,  with  curly  dark  brown 
hair,"  she  says,  "very  good  looking, 
though   I  wouldn't   call   him   handsome.") 

She  found  he  was  great  fun  to  talk  to. 
At  the  time,  he  was  a  film  editor  (he's 
now  newsreel  cameraman  for  George  Put- 
nam), but  his  conversation  wasn't  limited 
to  shop  talk. 

When  Joe  told  her  about  his  love  for 
skiing,  Mary  Lou  was  very  honest  with 
him.  (It  isn't  in  her  to  be  anything  else.) 
"I  don't  think  I'd  ever  enjoy  skiing,"  she 
said.     "I'm  sure  I'd  be  chicken." 

"I'll  teach  you  some  day,"  he  promised, 
"and  I'll  bet  you  won't  be." 

Later,  when  he  took  her  home,  he 
asked  for  her  phone  number.  And  short- 
ly afterwards,  he  called  her.  A  film  he 
had  edited  was  being  shown  that  night, 
and  he  wondered  if  she'd  like  to  see  it. 

Since  it  meant  being  with  Joe,  she  was 
very  willing,  and  they  sat  through  a  movie 
which  both  of  them  admit  was  bad.  An- 
other girl,  after  the  movie,  might  have 
pretended  that  it  was  a  great  picture, 
but  not  Mary  Lou.  Both  she  and  Joe 
agreed  that  it  was  just  one  of  those 
things — an  independent  venture  that  had 
fallen  flat  on   its   face. 

It  may  have  been  her  honesty,  as  well 
as  her  attractiveness,  that  appealed  so 
much  to  Joe.  At  any  rate,  the  more  they 
saw  of  each  other,  the  better  they  liked 
what  they  saw. 

About  two  months  after  he  had  met  her, 
Joe  knew  that  he  was  deeply  in  love 
with  Mary  Lou — that  she  was  the  girl 
he  wanted  to  marry.  Mary  Lou  was  in 
love,  too. 


Chi-Ches-Ters 


turn 

"problem"  days 
into 
party  days. 


No  need  to  miss  good 
times  because  of 
functional  menstrual 
distress— when  you 
can  get  such  wonder- 
ful quick  and  lasting 
relief  from  pain, 

cramps,  nervous  ten-  T\ 

sion  and  headache 

with  Chi-Ches-Ters.  There's  nothing  like  them— in' 
doctors'  tests  9  out  of  10  women  got  wonderful  re- 
lief beyond  expectations.  Try  this  fast-acting  pre- 
scription-like formula.  Your  money  back  if  not 
satisfied.  Purse  Pak  50£.  Economy  Sizes  $1.15  and 
$2.25.  At  your  drug  store,  or  we  will  fill  direct  orders. 

FREE — Illustrated  booklet  of  intimate  facts 
every  woman  should  know.  Mailed  in  plain 
wrapper.  Write  today!  Chichester  Chemical 
Company,  Dept.24S,        Philadelphia  46,  Pa. 


SONG  POEMS  WANTED 

To  be  set  to  music.   Send  your  poems   today  for  free 
examination ! 

J.    CHAS.    McNEIL,    (A.    B.    Master   of    Music 
815   MG  San  Vicente  Blvd.  Santa  Monica,  Calif. 


;  photos,  ages  1 
mo.  to  18yrs.  Cash  payments  made  if  used 
for  advertising.  Hundreds  selected  every 
month.  Send  1  small  photo  for  approval. 
Print  child's  &  mother's  name,  address 
on  back.  Returned  2  weeks.  No  Obligation. 

HOLLYWOOD  AD-PHOTOS 
6087-HL  Sunset,  Hollywood  28,  California 


* 


A\\\\Ui"l/////// 


Both    Rings  for  91 


SIMULATED    DIAMOND    LADIES' 

Engagement  and  Wedding  Rings 
ONLY   $]00    0/>irr?«s 

You'll  love  these  rings— the  simu- 
lated diamonds  look  like  a* 'million 
dollars"  and  sparkle  with  many 
stones.  SEND  NO  MONEY.  Pay 
postman  only  $1  plus  postage 
for    both    rings.     If    you    send    $  1 

/  cash  with  order  we  pay  all  postage. 

'  GUARANTEE:  Wear  rings  10  days. 
If  not  pleased  return  for  refund. 
White  or  yellow  gold  color  effect 
or  sterling  silver  mountings. 

HAREM    CO.,    Oept.     A-264 
30   Church    St.,   New   York  7,    N.   V. 


WIN  CONTEST  CASH 

You  can  win  BIG  CASH,  cars,  homes,  oil  wells,  $100.  a 
week  for  life.  You  can  be  free  of  money  worries.  "Contest 
Helps"  explains  everything.  Contains  winning  entries, 
valuable  advice,  samples,  almost  writes  your  entry  for  youl 
Answering  this  ad  can  make  you  the  next  BIG  WINNERI 
This  ad  and  I0#  brings  you  Contest  Helps  and  helpful 
bulletin  of  NEW  CASH  CONTESTS.  ACT  NOW. 

GAIN   PUBLISHING  CO.,  DEPT.  D-2 
141  West  17th  St.,  New  York  11,  New  York 


r    M^WK  Have  Dark  or 
[  Discolored  Skin,  Freckles, 
Ugly  Skin  Spots— 


WHEN  Mercolized  Wax  Cream's 
amazing  7  night  plan  lightens, 
beautifies  skin  while  you  sleep! 

Just  follow  the  famous  Mercolized  Wax 
Cream  7  night  plan  to  a  whiter,  clearer, 
lovelier  complexion.  Apply  specially  med- 
icated Mercolized  Wax  Cream  to  face, 
arms,  or  elsewhere  each  night 
for  one  week.  You'll  begin  to  see 
results  almost  at  once,  as  it  light- 
ens dark  skin,  blotches,  freckles 
and  ugly  skin  spots  as  if  by  magic  i 
This  is  not  a  cover-up  cosmetic; 
Mercolized  Wax  Cream  works 
UNDER  the  skin  surface.  Beautiful  women 
have  used  this  time-tested  plan  for  over  40 
years  —  you'll  love  its  fast,  sure,  longer 
lasting  results!  Mercolized  Wax  Cream  is 
sold  on  a  100%  guarantee  or  money  back. 

MERCOLIZED  WAX  CREAM 

At  All  Drug  and  Cosmetic  Counters 


Ithtem 
dark  skin, 
deckles 
and  u(ly 
skin  spoil. 


One  night,  after  they'd  had  dinner  to- 
gether and  gone  to  a  movie,  he  stood  at 
the  door  of  her  parents'  home  in  Holly- 
wood. He  had  something  on  his  mind. 
The  moment  he  started  talking,  Mary  Lou 
had  a  pretty  good  hunch  what  it  was. 

"I  have  something  to  ask  you,"  he  said. 

"Yes?"  said  Mary  Lou.  Her  dark  brown 
eyes  danced  impishly. 

"Well,  this  is  very  important  to  me,  to 
us."  Suddenly,  Joe,  usually  so  poised, 
began  to  stammer. 

Then,  finally,  he  came  out  with  it. 
"Will  you  marry  me?" 

Mary  Lou  didn't  keep  him  in  suspense. 
"Why,  yes,"  she  said.  Then  she  added, 
"Dad  would  be  so  pleased  if  you  asked 
him  if  you  could  marry  me.  I  know  it's 
supposed  to  be  old-fashioned,  but  would 
you  mind?" 

Joe  didn't  mind.  He  wouldn't  have 
minded  anything  that  night.  He  was  in 
seventh  heaven.  So,  like  a  true  old- 
fashioned  beau,  he  asked  Frank  Harring- 
ton if  he  could  marry  his  daughter  Marv 
Lou,  and  he  received  Mr.  Harrington's 
consent  and  blessing. 

It  was  shortly  before  Christmas,  and 
they  decided  to  announce  their  engage- 
ment on  Christmas  Eve.  Joe  bought  her 
the  ring  about  two  days  after  the  proposal, 
but  she  told  him  she  wouldn't  wear  it  till 
the  night  it  was  officially  announced.  What 
a  night  that  was!  The  Harringtons  held 
open  house,  everything  festively  deco- 
rated for  Christmas.  Mary  Lou's  parents 
— Frank  and  Effie  May  Harrington — had 
worked  hard  all  week  to  have  everything 
just  right  for  the  momentous  occasion. 

Joe  had  to  work  late  that  night,  on  his 
job  as  newsreel  cameraman.  But  he  was 
free  between  seven  and  eight-thirty,  so 
he  received  their  guests'  congratulations 
at  Mary's  home  during  those  hours.  Of 
course,  later  on,  after  Joe  had  to  leave 
for  work,  other  guests  kept  drifting  in, 
and  they,  too,  heard  the  good  news.  (If 
they  hadn't,  they  would  have  guessed, 
from  the  happy  light  in  Mary  Lou's  eyes.) 

JYLary  Lou  had  met  Joe's  folks,  even 
before  the  engagement  party.  She  loved 
them  and  they  loved  her.  Joe,  his  mother 
and  sister  have  a  cabin  at  Running 
Springs  between  Big  Bear  and  Arrow- 
head, and  she  had  gone  there  with  them 
one  weekend.  Mary  Lou,  a  complete 
novice  at  skiing  at  the  time,  had  bought 
the  complete  works  for  the  occasion — 
boots,  skis,  poles,  ski  pants,  sweater. 

Contrary  to  her  prediction,  she  hadn't 
chickened  put  on  the  small  hills:  "The 
first  few  times,  I  did  well  going  down 
those  hills,"  she  recalls.  "Shortly  after- 
wards, I  got  the  flu.  We  didn't  go  back 
again  for  about  two  months.  Perhaps  if 
I'd  been  able  to  keep  at  skiing  persist- 
ently, I  might  have  become  pretty  fair 
at  it.  But  the  interruption  must  have 
discouraged  me." 

She  kept  telling  Joe  she'd  do  fine  by 
herself — that  he  must  take  advantage  of 
the  chair  lift  and  go  up  to  the  higher 
slopes.  So  he  finally  did.  Mary  Lou  did 
some  skiing  by  herself.  "But  I  quickly 
lost  my  nerve,"  she  confesses.  "I  had 
pushed  myself  off  the  hill,  but  I  must 
have  done  something  wrong.  By  the 
time  I  got  to  the  bottom  of  the  hill,  I 
was  a  wreck.  I'd  had  enough  skiing  for 
the  day. 

"I  started  to  take  off  my  skis  on  the 
parking  lot,  but  fell  flat  on  my  face.  I 
picked  myself  up,  picked  up  the  skis, 
started  trying  to  walk,  and  fell  again. 
Then  I  looked  down  to  see  what  was  the 
matter.  Two  buckles  on  my  ski  shoes 
J  were  locking.  No  wonder  I  couldn't  walk! 
R  The  net  result  of  the  day  was  a  couple 
of  cracked  ribs.  I'd  fallen  on  a  small 
metal  attachment  on  the  skis." 

The  accident  put  an  end  to  her  skiing 


for  the  rest  of  the  season.  "Now  I'm  not 
too  anxious  to  go  back  to  it,"  she  admits 
frankly.  "I  didn't  go  in  for  skiing  last 
year,  because  of  our  baby,  Alan,  or  the 
year  before,  because  I  was  pregnant  then. 

"Joe  hopes  to  make  up  for  my  lack  of 
enthusiasm  by  training  Alan  to  ski,"  she 
smiles.  "Alan  is  only  a  little  over  a 
year  old.  Joe  wanted  to  make  a  skier 
out  of  him  almost  from  the  day  he  was 
born.  I  told  him  kiddingly,  'Don't  you 
think  we'd  better  wait  till  Alan  can 
walk  before  you  try  to  teach  him  to 
ski?'  Now  Alan  does  walk — and  I  wouldn't 
be  surprised  if  Joe  starts  trying  to  put 
him  on  skis  next  winter!" 

But  back  to  their  marriage,  just  six 
months  after  their  first  meeting.  Joe 
and  Mary  Lou  decided  to  get  married  at 
Lash  Chapel  in  Hollywood,  and  the  Har- 
ringtons had  a  wonderful  reception  for 
about  one  hundred  and  fifty  people  at 
their  home. 

After  the  wedding,  Joe  and  Mary  Lou 
drove  to  Yosemite  for  their  honeymoon. 
First,  they  drove  through  rain,  then 
through  snow.  But  when  they  got  to  Yose- 
mite, it  was  beautiful  there.  They  spent 
two  wonderful  days  living  in  the  lap  of 
luxury  at  the  Ahwani  Hotel.  Then  they 
had  to  rush  back  to  Hollywood,  so  that 
Mary  Lou  could  get  back  to  her  job,  and 
Joe  to  his. 

■Normally,  Joe  and  Mary  Lou  and  Alan 
live,  not  in  the  lap  of  luxury — but  in  a 
charming,  unpretentious,  vine-covered 
brown  and  white  house  in  Burbank.  It's 
a  very  un-actorish  home.  The  only  sen- 
sational thing  about  Joe's  life  is  that,  as  a 
cameraman,  he  sees  the  news  of  the 
world  happening,  covers  forest  fires,  the 
Confidential  courtroom  trial,  crashes,  ac- 
cidents,   and    other    newsworthy    events. 

In  many  ways,  they  are  a  couple  typi- 
cal of  today's  suburbia.  They  bought  their 
home — which  they  laughingly  call  "early 
Burbank" — shortly  before  they  were  mar- 
ried. They  were  able  to  move  into  it 
about  three  weeks  after  their  wedding. 
By  that  time,  they  had  the  kitchen  and 
bedroom  furniture.  Minetta  Ellen,  the 
original  Mother  Barbour  of  One  Man's 
Family,  had  given  Mary  Lou  a  pre-wed- 
ding  shower,  at  which  she  received  lovely 
and  practical  gifts  from  everybody  who 
had  anything  to  do  with  the  show. 

There  was  just  one  slight  shadow  hover- 
ing over  the  Dialons  the  day  they  moved 
into  their  new  home.  Mary  Lou  had 
chicken  pox!  But  still,  she  and  Joe  man- 
aged to  discuss  their  exciting  plans  for 
the  redecoration  of  the  house. 

One  of  the  large  furniture  stores  in 
Los  Angeles  was  having  a  sale,  and  Joe 
was  given  the  important  mission  of 
buying  the  first  piece  of  furniture  for 
the  living  room.  It  turned  out  to  be  a 
large,  comfortable  chair  in  yellow,  brown 
and  green.  "The  baby,"  laughs  Mary 
Lou,  "now  drools  all  over  it." 

In  its  pristine  newness  the  chair  was 
so  handsome  that  Joe  and  Mary  decided 
to  furnish  the  rest  of  the  living  room  in 
yellow,  brown  and  green  to  go  with  the 
chair.  For  the  sake  of  practicality,  a 
dark  brown  sofa  was  chosen.  Joe  and 
Mary  Lou  themselves  painted  the  living 
room  walls  yellow;  Mary  Lou  doing  the 
woodwork  and  trim,  and  Joe  the  actual 
painting  and  wallpapering.  "He's  the 
handiest  man,"  she  says  proudly.  "He  can 
fix  just  about  anything." 

The  painting  inside  the  house  was  done 
in  double-quick  time.  Joe  and  Mary  Lou 
had  ordered  wall-to-wall  carpeting  for 
the  hall,  living  room,  and  dining  room. 
Two  days  before  the  carpeting  was  to 
be  installed,  Mary  Lou  decided  it  wouldn't 
be  right  to  put  down  new  carpeting  in  a 
house  that  hadn't  been  freshly  painted. 
She  and  Joe  worked  all  one  night  and  the 


entire  next  day  painting  room  after  room. 

Joe  and  Mary  Lou  meet  their  prob- 
lems in  a  way  that's  typical  of  young 
suburban  couples  everywhere.  And  their 
experiences  are  very  similar.  For  in- 
stance, Joe  put  in  the  walk  leading  to 
the  house,  and  used  a  good  weed-killer 
to  kill  the  weeds  between  the  stones. 
Then,  imbued  with  enthusiasm,  he  de- 
cided it  would  be  a  good  idea  to  use  the 
same  weed-killer  on  the  lawn,  where  the 
weeds  were  thriving. 

The  weed-killer  worked  beautifully  on 
the  weeds,  and  just  as  beautifully  on  the 
nice  green  grass.  The  result?  Today, 
the  grass  is,  as  Mary  Lou  says,  "a  nice, 
early-autumn,  dark  brown  shade." 

Joe  and  Mary  Lou,  like  most  parents, 
decided  that  when  they  had  children  they 
wouldn't  spoil  them.  Of  course  not. 
"But  how  do  you  keep  from  doing  it?" 
Mary  Lou  asks,  very  reasonably.  "I  have 
a  feeling  that,  when  Alan  is  playing  very 
happily  by  himself,  I  should  just  let 
him  go  on  that  way,  but  I  can't  resist 
joining  him. 

"The  other  day,"  she  laughs,  "I  heard 
an  ad  that  went  something  like  this:  'Is 
your  wife  a  slave  to  the  kitchen?  Wouldn't 
she  like  to  spend  some  time  in  the  living 
room?'  Well,  no  one  has  to  feel  sorry  for 
me!  I'm  certainly  no  slave  to  the  kitchen. 
I  spend  a  lot  of  time  in  the  living  room 
playing  with  Alan. 

"After  dinner,  I  don't  feel  I  have  to  do 
the  dishes  immediately.  I  don't  do  them 
till  he  goes  to  bed.  I  know  some  women 
feel  that  it  is  just  terrible  to  let  a  dish 
he  unwashed  for  five  minutes.  But  I  think 
you  can  be  sensible  in  these  matters.  You 
don't  have  to  be  like  'Craig's  Wife' — who, 
if  I  remember  correctly,  seemed  to  care 
more  about  her  home  than  about  her 
husband.  Joe  and  Alan  come  first  with 
me,"  she   concludes. 

On  this  regime  of  love,  understanding 
and  play,  Alan  has  thrived.  When  he 
was  first  born,  Joe  and  Mary  Lou  had 
reason  to  be  concerned,  as  he  was  an 
incubator  baby,  almost  a  month  prema- 
ture. Everyone  had  been  sure  that  Mary 
Lou,  who  is  beautifully  built,  would  bring 
-a  thriving  seven-  or  eight-pound  baby 
into  the  world.  But  no.  Alan  was  four 
pounds,  six  ounces,  when  he  was  born— 
and  the  powers-that-be  kept  him  in  the 
hospital  for  a  full  week  after  she  had 
been  sent  home. 

At  the  end  of  the  week,  the  doctor 
said  that  he  was  doing  so  well  that  they 
would  let  him  go  home,  even  though  he 
was  still  slightly  under  five  pounds. 
But  the  fact  that  Alan  had  gained  five 
ounces  in  a  week  led  them  to  believe 
that  they  didn't  have  to  worry  about 
him.  They  were  right.  Today,  he  is  a 
sturdy  young  man,  toddling  around  the 
house  on  very  sturdy  young  legs.  He  has 
blond  hair  and  brown  eyes,  and  looks 
very  much  like  Joe. 

Naturally,  his  grandparents  idolize  him. 
There  were  three  previous  grandchildren 
(sister  Sheila's  children)  for  the  Har- 
ringtons, but  he  is  the  very  first  grand- 
child for  Joe's  mother.  They  all  make  a 
big  fuss  over  Alan.  The  living  room  is 
filled  with  his  toys,  including  gifts  from 
his  grandparents. 

Because  they  live  happily  and  fully,  the 
days  never  seem  long  enough  for  Joe  and 
Mary  Lou.  In  the  evening,  while  Mary 
Lou  knits  or  paints,  Joe  paints,  builds  a 
cabinet,  or  works  on  his  model  airplane. 
"It's  a  monster,"  she  laughs.  "The  plane 
is  in  our  bedroom,  the  motor  in  the 
garage.  It  hasn't  gotten  off  the  ground 
yet,  but  Joe  says  some  day  he's  going 
to  send  it  off  into  the  air.  I  hope,  when 
that  day  comes,  it  won't  crash." 

Well,  whether  it  does  or  not,  the  life 
of  the  Dialons  will  go  merrily  on. 


7W/ 


Does  a  pencil  in  your  hand  start  you  sketching"? 
Then  you  may  have  enough  talent  for  an  excit- 
ing career  in  art!  Here's  help  in  finding  out. 

Maybe  you've  dreamed  of  getting  into  art  as  a 
career  .  .  .  drawing  fashions,  people,  animals, 
scenes.  For  ads  or  posters.  Or  to  illustrate  stories, 
or  greeting  cards. 

Here's  the  first  thing  to  do.  Find  out — from 
people  who  know  what's  needed — whether  you 
have  art  talent  worth  training. 

Free  Art  Talent  Test 

Take  the  simple  Art  Talent  Test  that  has  started 
so  many  towards  careers  in  the  art  field.  You  can 
get  a  free  copy,  without  obligation,  by  mailing 
the  coupon  below.  You  take  the  test  at  home; 
then  send  it  back  for  grading.  You  get  a  free 
analysis  of  your  talent  by  professional  artists  at 
the  world's  largest  home  study  art  school.  They 
know  what  it  takes  for  success  in  the  art  field. 


For  over  40  years  our  school  has  been  training 
talented  beginners  for  careers  in  commercial  art. 
We  give  individual  instruction  in  art  through 
the  mails.  Many  of  our  former  students  are 
highly  successful  today. 

Take  this  Talent  Test  at  home.  Mail  it  back— 
and  find  out  whether  you  have  talent  worth 
training.  Send  this  coupon  today.  It  could  be 
your  start  on  an  exciting  career! 


ART    INSTRUCTION,  INC.,  studio    11397 

500  South  4th  Street         •         Minneapolis  15,  Minnesota 
Please  send  me  your  Talent  Test,  without  cost  or  obligation. 
(PLEASE   PRINT) 


Name- 


.AGE- 


Address- 
City 


State- 


_Zone Counfy- 

Occupation 


Thai:  Ivcwry^  JjOok,-so  clear.  ..so  fresh. 

. . .  so  eetsily  yours 


Wash  your  face  regularly  with  pure, 
mild  Ivory  Soap.  Gentle  enough  for  a 
baby's  skin — so  right  for  your  skin. 


This  adorable  snow  baby  has  That  Ivory  Look.  A  snowy  fresh 

and  sparkling  look  your  complexion  can  have  through  the  magic  of  Ivory's  mildness. 

Make  a  simple  change  to  regular  care  with  Ivory  Soap — the  soap  mild  enough 

for  a  baby's  skin.  And  soon  your  complexion  will  be  fresher,      "T^^SSfe* 
clearer — altogether  lovelier.  You'll  have  That  Ivory  Look!  I^VORV 

99  *Js£o% pure®. . .  it  floats 

Afore  doctors  SLoluise  Ivory  than  arty  other  soap 


"."   '  ''■'■'•' ■■■■■■: ■■''■ 
■'■'■ -:  i  r'": ':B 

.  Uffiv^B     W™ 


MO 
BOI 


IB 


KJBlXIlDCU 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS  • 


0  020  514  129  7 


wis!  Hi 

rasrans 

£w$H      ■  $  > .    Iras 


?ISE£ 


•mflSBioitoBI 
Krwi 

HNIIh 

■H  ■■ 

jviffiv  '  ■■■■■]  . 


MM 

2rauc£3SSP 

*wrwg"ra31WB 


HM 


■■ 


■ 


Dm 

■gB 


jcra 


■Hi 

guESSE 
Cmana 

5w8ra 


BKBHH1 

•affl§fl&8  ■ 

WKXWiB 

jfiawlngta 

■'.■.■"■■■.'■•■ 
'.•■■'■• 

■■.'■•,■•■■■■•. 

SMgm 

IwlMinMlMwH 

■'•'■'.■':■■.■■>.■■'' 

®$ra§ir 

seSSrkOk 
SSi  ';■::■: 


era 


