281.1 019 55-01?6'4 



281.1 019 55-017&- 

Oulton $5 . 00 
Alexandrian Christianity. 



Keep Your Card in This Pocket 

Books will be issued only on presentation of proper 
library cards. 

Unless labeled otherwise, books may be retained 
ior two weeks. Borrowers finding books marked, de- 
faced or mutilated are expected to report same at 
library desk; otherwise the last borrower will be held 
responsible for all imperfections discovered. 

The card holder is responsible for all books drawn 
on this card. 

Penalty for over-due books 2c a day plus cost of 
notices. 

Lost cards and change of residence must be re- 
ported promptly. 




Public Library 

Kansas City, Mo. 



TKNUQh INVELOPS, CORP, 



KANSAS CITY, MO PUBLIC LIBRARY 




DDD1 D3D7S1M 



IJ 

__._ 
1 G <U 



MHT MAY 



THE LIBRARY OF CHRISTIAN 
CLASSICS 



GENERAL EDITORS 



JOHN BAILLIE 

Principal, New College, 
Edinburgh 

JOHN T. McNEILL 

Auburn Professor of Church History, 

Union Theological Seminary, 

New York 



HENRY P. VAN DUSEN 

President, Union Theological Seminary, 
New York 



THE LIBRARY OF CHRISTIAN CLASSICS 

Volume 

I. Early Christian Fathers. Editor: CYRIL C. RICHARDSON, 
Washburn Professor of Church History, Union Theological 
Seminary, New York. 

II. Alexandrian Christianity. Editors: HENRY CHADWICK, Fellow 
and Dean of Queens 'College, Cambridge; J. E. L. OULTON, 
Professor of Divinity, Trinity College, Dublin. 

III. Christology of the Later Fathers. Editor: EDWARD ROCHIE 
HARDY, Professor of Church History, Berkeley Divinity 
School, New Haven, Connecticut. 

IV. Cyril of Jerusalem and Nemesius of Emesa. Editor : WILLIAM 
TELFER, Master of Selwyn College, Cambridge. 

V. Early Latin Theology. Editor: S. L. GREENSLADE, Van 
Mildert Professor of Divinity, University of Durham. 

VI. Augustine'. Earlier Writings. Editor: J. H. S. BURLEIGH, 
Professor of Ecclesiastical History, New College, Edin- 
burgh. 

VII. Augustine'. Confessions and Enchiridion. Editor: ALBERT 
COOK OUTLER, Professor of Theology, Perkins School of 
Theology, Southern Methodist University, Dallas, Texas. 

VIII. Augustine: Later Works. Editor: JOHN BURNABY, Fellow of 
Trinity College, Cambridge. 

IX. Early Medieval Theology. Editor: GEORGE E. MCCRACKEN, 
Professor of Classical Languages, Drake University, Des 
Moines, Iowa. 

X. A Scholastic Miscellany : Anselm to Ockham. Editor : EUGENE R. 
FAIRWEATHER, Associate Professor of Dogmatic Theology 
and Ethics, Trinity College, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, Canada. 

XI. Nature and Grace: Selections from the Summa Theologica of 
Thomas Aquinas. Editor: A. M. FAIRWEATHER, Lecturer 
in Philosophy, University of Edinburgh. 

XII. Western Asceticism. Editor: OWEN CHADWICK, Fellow of 
Trinity Hall, Cambridge. 

XIII. Late Medieval Mysticism. Editor: RAY C. PETRY, Professor 
of Church History, The Divinity School, Duke University, 
Durham, North Carolina. 



4 LIST OF TITLES 

XIV. Advocates of Reform: From Wyclif to Erasmus. Editor: 
MATTHEW SPINKA, Waldo Professor of Church History, 
Hartford Theological Seminary, Hartford, Connecticut. 

XV. Luther: Lectures on Romans. Editor: WILHELM PAUCK, Pro- 
fessor of Historical Theology, Federated Theological 
Faculty, Chicago Theological Seminary, Chicago, Illinois. 

XVI. Luther: Early Theological Works. Editor: T. F. TORRANCE, 
Professor of Church History, New College, Edinburgh. 

XVII. Luther and Erasmus on Free Will Editor: E. GORDON RUPP, 
Lecturer in Modern Church History, University of Cam- 
bridge. 

XVIII. Luther: Letters of Spiritual Counsel. Editor: THEODORE 
G. TAPPERT, Schieren Professor of the Synod of New York 
and New England Christian History, Lutheran Theo- 
logical Seminary, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 

XIX. Melanchthon and Bucer. Editor: F. J, TAYLOR, Vicar of 
Christ Church, Claughton, Birkenhead: Lecturer at 
William Temple College, Hawarden. 

XX. Calvin: Institutes of the Christian Religion. Editor: JOHN T. 
XXI. McNEiLL, Auburn Professor of Church History, Union 
Theological Seminary, New York. 

XXII. Calvin: Theological Treatises. Editor: J. K. S. REID, Professor 
of Theology, Leeds University. 

XXIII. Calvin: Commentaries and Letters. Editor: JOSEPH HAROU- 
TUNIAN, Cyrus H. McCormick Professor of Systematic 
Theology, McCormick Theological Seminary, Chicago, 
Illinois. 

XXIV. Zwingli and Eullinger. Editor: G. W. BROMILEY, Rector of 
St. Thomas 9 Episcopal Church, Edinburgh. 

XXV. Spiritual and Anabaptist Writers. Editor: GEORGE HUNTSTON 
WILLIAMS, Lecturer on Church History, The Divinity 
School, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts; 
ANGEL M. MERGAL, Professor of Theology, Evangelical 
Seminary of Puerto Rico, Rio Piedras, Puerto Rico. 

XXVI. English Reformers. Editors: R. D. WHITEHORN, Professor 
of Church History, Westminster College, Cambridge; 
NORMAN SYKES, Dixie Professor of Ecclesiastical History, 
University of Cambridge. 



VOLUME II 
ALEXANDRIAN CHRISTIANITY 



THE LIBRARY OF CHRISTIAN CLASSICS 

Volume II 

ALEXANDRIAN 
CHRISTIANITY 

Selected Translations 

of Clement and Origen 

with Introductions and Notes by 

JOHN ERNEST LEONARD OULTON, D.D. 

Regius Professor of Divinity in the University of Dublin ; 
Chancellor of St. Patrick's 

and 
HENRY CHADWICK, B.D. 

Fellow and Dean of Queens' College, 
Cambridge 



Philadelphia 
THE WESTMINSTER PRESS 



Published simultaneously in Great Britain and the United States of America 
by the S.G.M. Press, Ltd., London, and The Westminster Press, Philadelphia 



First published MCMLIV 



Library of Congress Catalog Card Number . . 54-10257 



frlnttdin th< United Statu of America 



GENERAL EDITORS 5 PREFACE 



The Christian Church possesses in its literature an abundant 
and incomparable treasure. But it is an inheritance that 
must be reclaimed by each generation. THE LIBRARY OF 
CHRISTIAN CLASSICS is designed to present in the English 
language, and in twenty-six volumes of convenient size, a 
selection of the most indispensable Christian treatises written 
prior to the end of the sixteenth century. 

The practice of giving circulation to writings selected for 
superior worth or special interest was adopted at the beginning 
of Christian history. The canonical Scriptures were themselves 
a selection from a much wider literature. In the Patristic 
era there began to appear a class of works of compilation (often 
designed for ready reference in controversy) of the opinions 
of well-reputed predecessors, and in the Middle Ages many 
such works were produced. These medieval anthologies actually 
preserve some noteworthy materials from works otherwise lost. 

In modern times, with the increasing inability even of those 
trained in universities and theological colleges to read Latin 
and Greek texts with ease and familiarity, the translation of 
selected portions of earlier Christian literature into modern 
languages has become more necessary than ever; while the 
wide range of distinguished books written in vernaculars such 
as English makes selection there also needful. The efforts that 
have been made to meet this need are too numerous to be noted 
here, but none of these collections serves the purpose of the 
reader who desires a library of representative treatises spanning 
the Christian centuries as a whole. Most of them embrace 
only the age of the Church Fathers, and some of them have 
long been out of print. A fresh translation of a work already 

9 



10 GENERAL EDITORS PREFACE 

translated may shed much new light upon its meaning. This 
is true even of Bible translations despite the work of many 
experts through the centuries. In some instances old translations 
have been adopted in this series, but wherever necessary or 
desirable, new ones have been made. Notes have been supplied 
where these were needed to explain the author's meaning. The 
introductions provided for the several treatises and extracts 
will, we believe, furnish welcome guidance. 

JOHN BAILLIE 
JOHN T, McNEiLL 
HENRY P. VAN DUSEN 



CONTENTS 

CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

* GENERAL INTRODUCTION 15 

*ON MARRIAGE (Stromateis., Ill) 

The Text 40 

*ON SPIRITUAL PERFECTION (Stromateis, VII) 

The Text 93 

ORIGEN 
| GENERAL INTRODUCTION 171 

fON PRAYER 

Introduction . . . .180 

The Text 238 

Notes ........ 330 

*EXHORTATION TO MARTYRDOM 

Introduction ...... 388 

The Text 393 

* DIALOGUE WITH HERACLIDES 

Introduction ...... 43 

The Text 437 



12 CONTENTS 

*BlBLIOGRAPHY ....... 456 

INDEXES . . . . . . -459 

Professor Oulton has written or translated those portions of the book marked with a f , 
Mr. Chadwick those marked with an*, except that the translation of Stromateis, VII, 
is that of J. B. Mayor, revised. 



CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 



General Introduction 



CHRISTIANITY MUST HAVE TAKEN ROOT EARLY AT 
Alexandria. It was the second city of the Roman Empire, 
the centre of much trade and commerce, with a popula- 
tion reckoned at about half a million. There was a large Jewish 
population there. The learned Jew Philo, elder contemporary 
of Paul, says that the Jews in Alexandria and all Egypt totalled 
a million. 1 It was the home of that hellenistic Judaism of which 
Philo's works are the outstanding monument. Nevertheless, we 
have no reliable information concerning the way in which the 
young Christian movement developed there. The fourth-century 
historian Eusebius of Caesarea reports that Mark was the first 
Bishop of Alexandria, a statement which does not take us be- 
yond the realm of legend. But it is highly probable that there 
were Christians there in apostolic times. In the Acts of the 
Apostles (i8:24ff.) Luke tells of Apollos who was an Alex- 
andrian; he may well have learnt there such knowledge of Jesus 
as he possessed before he met Aquila and Priscilla. 

It is only towards the end of the second century that the 
Christian community at Alexandria emerges from its shroud of 
darkness. Earlier in the second century during the latter part of 
Hadrian's reign there flourished at Alexandria a distinguished 
Christian teacher named Basilides. Soon after him there fol- 
lowed the even more eminent Valentine, who moved to Rome, 
where, it seems, he very nearly succeeded in becoming Pope. 

i Philo, in Flaccum, 43; cf f the commentary in H. Box's edition (London, 
1939), p. 94. On the history of the Jewish colony at Alexandria see also 
H. B. Swete, Introduction to the Old Testament in Greek (1902), pp. i ff.; H. I. 
Bell, Jews and Christians in Egypt (1924), pp. 10 ff., and his recent Forwood 
Lectures, Cults and Creeds in Graeco-Roman Egypt (1953). 

15 



l6 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

Both these teachers, however, were prominent in the so-called 
"gnostic" movement of the period, and their opinions were not 
acceptable to the Church at large. To these men Clement of 
Alexandria owed much, both as provoking reaction and as 
commanding assent. 

Of the life of Clement himself not much is known. He was 
born about the middle of the second century, probably in 
Athens, of pagan parents. His father may have been a des- 
cendant of a freedman of the Titus Flavius Clemens who shared 
the consulship with the emperor Domitian in A.D. 95. Like 
many men of that age, he travelled about to receive instruction 
from various teachers. In a famous passage he tells us about his 
education (Strom., I, 1 1) : "This book is not written to show off 
my skill as a writer; it is rather that I am treasuring up notes 
for my old age, a remedy for forge tfulness. 2 They are intended 
simply as a picture and rough sketch of those clear and living- 
teachings and of those blessed and truly honourable men whom 
I was privileged to hear. Of them one was an Ionian who taught 
in Greece. Others were in Magna Graecia [i.e., Southern Italy] ; 
of them one came from Coele-Syria, the other from Egypt. 
Others lived in the East; of these one was an Assyrian, one a 
Palestinian Hebrew. After I met the last (who was first of them 
in importance) I abandoned further search, having discovered 
him hiding in Egypt. A truly Sicilian bee, he drew honey from 
the flowers in the meadow 3 of the apostles and prophets, and 
implanted in the souls of his pupils pure knowledge." 

The identity of Clement's last teacher is not in doubt. He was 
Pantaenus, described here as "a truly Sicilian bee." The best 
honey came from Sicily, 4 so that this is Clement's way of com- 
plimenting him upon the brilliance of his lectures. (The phrase 
gives us no compelling reason for supposing, as has been thought 
by many writers on Clement, that Pantaenus was a Sicilian.) 
Pantaenus was head of the Christian school at Alexandria, and 
before his conversion was said to have been a Stoic (Eusebius, 
H.E., V, 10); we are also told that he had visited India. Little is 
known of his teaching, and it has proved a forlorn undertaking 
to attempt any reconstruction of his ideas from Clement's works. 

Clement met Pantaenus perhaps about A.D. 180. Not long 

2 A commonplace; cf. Cicero, pro Sulla, 45. 

3 A reminiscence of Euripides, Hippolytus, 76 ff. (cf. W. Telfer, in J.T.S., 
XXVIII (1927), p. 169). 

4 Varro, de Re Rustica, III, 16:4; Pliny, Nat.HisL, XI., 13:32. That Clement 
here refers to Pantaenus is indicated by Eusebius, H.E. 9 V, 1 1 :2. 



GENERAL INTRODUCTION I*J 

afterwards he succeeded Pantaenus at the Christian school, and 
proceeded to give lectures and to write works intended to win 
over to the Church the educated classes of Alexandria. 

Clement's chief extant writings are his great trilogy: (a) "The 
Exhortation to the Greeks" (Protrepticus) in one book: (b) "The 
Instructor" (Paedagogus) in three books; (c) "The Miscellanies" 
(Stromateis}. The title Stromateis was not uncommonly used in 
Clement's age for writings without any strict order and contain- 
ing varied subject-matter. 5 In the manuscripts there are eight 
books of the Stromateis^ and Eusebius of Caesarea thought the 
whole work was complete in the eight books before him. 6 But 
the eighth book was evidently not intended for publication, and 
consists of notes of a preparatory nature on which Clement 
draws in the first seven books. Probably it was appended to the 
incomplete work after Clement's death. How many books Cle- 
ment meant to write we cannot tell. At the end of Book VII (cf. 
also VII, 89) he writes of continuing further. 

The only other complete work from Clement's pen is the 
tractate on the rich young ruler (Quis Dives Salvetur?),' 1 written 
to reassure his wealthy and cultured Christian pupils that Christ 
condemned only the wrong attitude to wealth, not wealth as 
such. 

Numerous fragments of other works are quoted in later 
writers, and the manuscripts also preserve two works which 
throw important light on gnosticism entitled "Selections from 
the Prophetic Sayings" (Eclogae Propheticae] and "Epitomes from 
the Writings of Theodotus and the so-called Eastern Teaching 
of the Time of Valentinus" (Excerpta ex Theodoto}. Of the latter 
there is an edition with English translation and notes by Dr R. P. 
Casey (1934).* It is scarcely intelligible without an extensive 
commentary. 

II 

Clement's life work was a war, waged on two fronts; unlike 
other such conflicts, it ended in success. The gnostic teachers 

5 On the title see J. B. Mayor, Clement of Alexandria : Miscellanies, Book VII, 
pp. xi-xxi. 6 Eusebius, H.E., VI, 13:1. 

7 This work is excellently translated by G. W. Butterworth in the Loeb 
Classical Library. In the Ante-Nicene Christian Library, Vols. IV and 
XII, W. Wilson translates the trilogy, excepting Strom., Ill, which is 
given in Latin. 

8 Recently a French edition has been produced by F. Sagnard (Paris, 
1948); thereon see A. J. Festugiere in Vigiliae Christianae,, III (i949)> 
pp. 193-207. 



l8 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

had tended to approximate Christianity to notions drawn from 
Graeco-Oriental syncretism and heterodox Judaism. These 
sects had given ordinary church folk such a fright that they had 
come to fight shy of any form of Christianity which claimed 
philosophical support. That philosophy was the mother of all 
heresy was the firm conviction of Tertullian of Carthage, 
Clement's contemporary. He remarks that the heretics quote 
"Seek and ye shall find" to defend their curiosity. But for Ter- 
tullian Christian believers have already found the object of their 
search: "after one has believed there is but one thing more to be 
believed, namely that there is nothing more to believe" (de 
Praescr., 9). The pagan critic of Christianity Celsus, writing 
about A.D. 177-180, probably at Alexandria or perhaps at 
Rome, says that while indeed there are some educated Chris- 
tians, the majority commonly say: "Do not ask questions, only 
believe. Faith will save you. Wisdom is an evil thing and foolish- 
ness good." 9 Galen, the distinguished medical writer of this 
time, caustically remarks: "If I had in mind people who taught 
their pupils in the same way as the followers of Moses and Christ 
teach theirs for they order them to accept everything on faith 
I should not have given you a definition." 10 Distrust of learn- 
ing and argument was evidently characteristic of much Christian 
feeling at this period. The most Tertullian was prepared to give 
in justification of his belief was Credo quia absurdum. And the 
Roman Hippolytus, Clement's junior contemporary, constructed 
his refutation of all heresies on the assumption that each heretic 
derived his ideas from some pagan philosopher an assumption 
for which classical scholars have every reason to be grateful to 
him, since he thus preserves valuable fragments of early philo- 
sophers like Heraclitus. 

Accordingly, in the eyes of many Christians it was doing the 
devil's work to pretend that anything more than simple faith 
was required. Such an attitude did nothing to commend Chris- 
tianity to educated people. Clement conceives of his task as a 
vocation to see to it that the Church is made safe for a more 
positive evaluation of Greek philosophy. For him it is a pastoral 
necessity arising directly out of his work among the cultured 
classes of Alexandria. To tell a well-educated catechumen 
that even the greatest of Greek poets and philosophers were in- 
spired by the devil, would be catastrophic. "The earth is the 
Lord's and the fullness thereof," quotes Clement in self-justifica- 

9 Origen, contra Celswn, I 5 9, 
10 See R. Walzer, Galen on Jews and Christians (1949), pp. 15, 48-56. 



GENERAL INTRODUCTION IQ 

tion; "and anyone who seeks to help catechumens, especially if 
they are Greeks, must not shrink from scholarly study." 11 "But 
the multitude are scared of Greek philosophy, as children are of 
masks, fearing that it will lead them astray." 12 Like the com- 
panions of Odysseus passing the Sirens, "they stop up their ears 
because they know that if they once allow themselves to listen to 
Greek learning they will not be able afterwards to find their way 
home again." 13 "I am well aware of what is said by some who 
stupidly take fright at any noise. They assert that one must con- 
cern oneself only with what is necessary and is bound up with 
faith, that we ought to pass by anything outside this as super- 
fluous because it distracts us to no purpose and absorbs our 
energies in studies which are of no help towards our ultimate 
end. There are others who even think that philosophy was 
introduced into human life by some evil inventor for the ruin of 
men." 14 

The existence of such critics makes Clement cautious in his 
expressions. It has even been suggested that only this obscurity 
of his style prevented Clement from suffering condemnation like 
Origen in later centuries. 15 The Miscellanies is a baffling and 
enigmatic work to read because Clement is constantly passing 
from one subject to another, leaving hints and allusions unex- 
plained and undeveloped. He himself makes it clear that this is 
a deliberate attempt to cover his tracks. 16 He wishes to be con- 
ciliatory to his opponents, and never lashes them with scorn. 
At most he allows himself a gentle irony. 17 To his critics he 
admits that pagan philosophy is a harlot. But the scripture says: 
"Be not much with a strange woman" (Prov. 5:20). "This is an 
admonition that we are to use but not to linger and spend too 
much time with worldly culture." 18 

Clement believes that philosophy is of divine origin. In an 
important passage he discusses various possible explanations of 
the origin of philosophy: 19 "They may say that it is mere chance 
that the Greeks have expressed something of the true philosophy. 

n Strom., VI, 89. 12 ibid., VI, 80. 

13 Ibid., VI, 89. n ibid., I, 1 8. 

15 A. Jiilicher, art. "Clemens Alexandrinus," in Pauly-Wissowa, Realenc., 
IV (1901), col. 13. Photius (cod. 109, 1 1 1) utters a word of warning about 
Clement's unsoundness. 

16 Clement is explicit on this point (Strom., I, 20-21, 56; IV, 4; VI, 2; VII, 
no in). 

i? Cf. Strom., I, 43; VI, 80, cited above. 1* Strom., I, 29. 

19 Ibid., I, 94. Valuable comments on this passage by E. Molland in Sym- 
bolae Osloenses, XV-XVI (1936), pp. 57 ff. 



20 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

But that chance is subject to divine providence. For no one will 
make chance into a god merely in order to get the better of their 
argument with us. Or they may call it a happy coincidence. Or 
in the next place it may be said that the Greeks possessed an 
idea of the truth implanted by nature. But we know that the 
Creator of nature is one only. . . . And if it is said that they had 
a common mind, let us examine who is author of it and of the 
righteousness which is apparent in the distribution of mind to 
all men. 20 But if anyone says that the cause of this anticipation 
in Greek philosophy is a 'previous proclamation' or says that it 
is due to a coincidental agreement, he is implying that it is a 
form of prophecy. Moreover, others affirm that many teachings 
of the philosophers arise from a reflection of the truth " (i.e., by 
introspection the philosopher contemplates the image of God 
within himself, which is a reflection of God; cf. I Cor. 13:12). 
It is with the last view that Clement associates himself. But it is 
characteristic of him not to be too decided on the point. And 
elsewhere he alludes favourably to the view that Greek philo- 
sophy goes back to the fallen angels of Genesis, ch. 6, who were 
supposed to have imparted their secrets to their women folk, so 
that the truth, albeit in distorted form, had come down to men 
(Strom., V, 10; cf. I, 81). He is particularly attracted by the 
theory, taken over from traditional Jewish apologetic, that the 
Greek philosophers had plagiarized Moses. The Lord had said, 
"All who came before me were thieves and robbers." Clement 
devotes inordinate space to proving the priority of Moses and to 
arguing that the Greeks had stolen their ideas from the Old 
Testament. And in a long section (Strom.., V, 89-139) he even 
argues that this is only to be expected, since the Greeks were in 
the habit of plagiarizing from one another. It is necessary to ob- 
serve that much of this section, like other parts of the Miscel- 
lanies, seems itself to have been a compilation drawing on earlier 
sources. 21 

Clement's debt to other writers is so great that some modern 
scholars have treated him as if he had not a single idea of his own 
and was merely a compiler of other men's work. If Clement were 
no more than an expert with scissors and paste he would scarcely 
merit Jerome's high praise that of all the Fathers he was the 
most learned (Efrist., LXX, 4). It is of course demonstrable that 
he draws much from elsewhere. For his too-numerous poetic 

20 Allusion to Plato, Laws, 714 A. 

21 For a recent discussion see K. Ziegler's article "Plagiat" in Pauly- 
Wissowa, Rsalenc.) XX, 2 (1950), cols. 1984-1991. 



GENERAL INTRODUCTION 21 

quotations he uses anthologies, and for his philosophy he uses 
the current handbooks of "potted" philosophy, summarizing 
the opinions of the various schools; 22 the same practice was 
adopted by many others of his time, both pagan and Christian. 
There can, however, be no question that he had an excellent 
first-hand knowledge of most of the classics of Greek literature. 
He knew well Homer and Euripides, Plato and the Stoics. 
Platonic allusions are particularly frequent 3 and probably even 
now not all of them have been noticed and identified. Equally 
familiar to him were the writings of Philo of Alexandria, from 
whom he quotes almost as often as from Plato. Philo provided 
him with a ready-rnade attitude to Greek philosophy; he had 
interpreted the story of Hagar and Sarah as an allegory of the 
relations of philosophy and theology, to show that the former is 
to be the handmaid of the latter. 23 It is an attitude Clement is 
glad to make his own. 

Paul had spoken of the Law of Moses as a paidagogos until the 
coming of Christ (Gal. 3:24). Clement would attribute the same 
role to Greek philosophy: "Even if Greek philosophy does not 
comprehend the truth in its entirety and, in addition, lacks the 
strength to fulfil the Lord's command, yet at least it prepares 
the way for the teaching which is royal in the highest sense of 
the word, by making a man self-controlled, by moulding his 
character, and by making him ready to receive the truth" 
(Strom., I, 80). "Greek philosophy, as it were, provides for the 
soul the preliminary cleansing and training required for the 
reception of the faith, on which foundation the truth builds up 
the edifice of knowledge" (Strom., VII, 20). 

Ill 

If, on the one hand, Clement is anxious to vindicate for 
Christian teachers the right to study the Greek philosophers and 
poets, on the other hand he wishes to make it clear that this does 
not leave the door open for unorthodox gnostic speculations. 
Between Clement and the gnostics there were two chief points 

22 H. Diels, Doxographi Graeci, pp. 244 ff. 

23 Philo, de Congressu Eruditionis gratia, freely pillaged by Clement, Strom., I, 
28-32. 

The Jewish Wisdom-literature was also of great importance to Clement 
in enabling him to bridge the gulf between the biblical theology of 
church tradition and the rational inquiry of philosophy. Cf. W. Volker, 
"Die Verwertung: der Weisheit-Literatur bei den christlichen Alex- 
andrinern," in jjeits.f. Kirchengeschichte, LXIV (1953), pp. 1-33. 



22 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

at issue: their pessimistic view of the world, and their denial of 
the part played by free will in the attainment of salvation. 

The gnostics took so pessimistic a view of the created world 
that they refused to recognize in its Creator the God and Father 
of our Lord Jesus Christ. This present evil world must be the 
work of an inferior, perhaps even of an evil, power; it certainly 
could not have been made by the supreme God, of whom it was 
entirely unworthy. It followed from this that the Old Testament 
which was inspired by the Creator must be similarly inferior, 
and could tell us little or nothing about the God revealed in 
Jesus Christ. 

In the third book of his Miscellanies Clement has a full-scale 
discussion of the implications of this view of the world. The 
gnostic estimate of the world led to two opposed attitudes to sex 
and marriage. Clement himself divides his opponents into two 
groups, the extreme ascetics and the licentious (Strom.) Ill, 40). 
Of the former class the most prominent representatives are Mar- 
cion and Tatian. Although in other respects Marcion stood 
apart from the "gnostic" movement, he shared their idea of the 
Old Testament and the Creation. The inferior Creator-God had 
given the command: "Increase and multiply and replenish the 
earth 5 ' (Gen. 1:28). The good Marcionite would therefore do 
nothing whatever to assist the Creator in his business. In fact, in 
Marcion's eyes the methods chosen by the Creator for replenish- 
ing the world were as nasty as could be. Marcion's language 
about sex and the process of reproduction shows him to have 
been a psychopathic case; the contemplation of sex over- 
whelmed him with a sense of nausea. No member of the Mar- 
cionite church was allowed to be married. 

A similarly ascetic line was adopted by Tatian, former pupil 
of the apologist Justin Martyr. There is all too little evidence of 
the details of the heretical doctrines he came to hold. Irenaeus 
has three complaints to make against him: (a) he adopted 
Valentinian ideas about invisible aeons; (b] he called marriage 
fornication, like Marcion and Saturninus; (c) he denied that 
Adam could be saved. 24 He evidently came to attribute an 
inferior status to the Creator and the created world, since he 
interpreted "Let there be light" (Gen. 1:3) as a request from 
the Creator, who found himself in darkness and had to ask the 
supreme God for light so that he could see to make the world. 25 
In Strom., Ill, 80-8 1 Clement quotes from Tatian's work en- 

24 Irenaeus, adv. Haer., I, 28, quoted by Eusebius, H.E., IV, 29:1. 

25 See Prof. Oulton's note on Origen, de Orat., XXIV, 5 (p. 358 below). 



GENERAL INTRODUCTION 23 

titled "On Perfection according to the Saviour." It was prob- 
ably the ascetic tendency of this work which led to Tatian's 
separation from the Church. His excommunication is dated by 
Eusebius in AJX lys. 26 When the church at Rome became too 
hot to hold him, he returned to his native land, Mesopotamia, 
where he exercised wide influence and would, it seems, have 
found many like-minded persons who held the married state to 
be incompatible with the Christian profession. 27 His "Harmony 
of the Gospels" (Diatessaron) remained in general use., especially 
in the Syrian church for which it was originally composed. A 
Greek version was soon made for the many Greek-speaking 
Christians of the Eastern provinces. 28 Whether the Oration to the 
Greeks, for which he is chiefly known, was written at Rome or in 
Mesopotamia is not certain. If, as has recently been urged, 29 it 
was written late in 177 or early in 178, then it is clear that even 
after his separation from the Church Tatian remained faithful 
to the apologetic tradition he had inherited from Justin. 

It is interesting that Clement's quotations from Tatian's 
work "On Perfection according to the Saviour" show that he 
expounded Paul, and give no hint that he rejected the apostle's 
writings. His followers, however, according to the statements of 
Hippolytus and Origen, rejected the Pauline epistles, and 
Eusebius says that they also rejected the Acts. 30 

Of the ascetic wing of the "gnostic" movement Clement's 
third representative is Julius Cassianus. We know nothing about 
him other than what we are told by Clement (Jerome's state- 
ments about him are wholly dependent on Clement). We learn 
that he was the originator of Docetism a statement which 
cannot be accepted in view of the New Testament evidence for 
the prevalence of this tendency before the end of the first century 
(I John 4:1 ff.). In the first book of the Miscellanies Cassian is 
mentioned with respect in company with Tatian as having 
proved in his "commentaries" the priority of Moses to Greek 

26 EusebiuSj Chronicle, p. 206, ed. Helm. 

27 Epiphanius, Panarion, XLVI. Cf. F. C. Burkitt in Camb. Anc. Hist., XII, 

P- 499- 

28 See P. E. Kahle, The Cairo Geniza (1947), pp. 197 ff; A. Voobus, History 
of the Gospel Text in Syriac (1951). 

29 R. M. Grant, "The Date of Tatian's Oration," in Harvard Theological Re- 
view, XLVI (1953), pp. 99-101. J. Geffcken, wei griech. Apologeten 
(1907), pp. 105-106, dates Tatian's Oration after his break with the 
Church. Cf. also Grant in J.T.S. n.s. V (1954),- pp. 62-68. 

so Hippolytus, Refut^ VIII, 20:1; Origen, contra Celsum, V, 65; Eusebius, 
H.E., IV, 29:5- 



24 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

philosophers (Strom.) I, 101). He was at one time a Valentinian, 
but fell out with the school perhaps because of his extreme 
docetic opinions and his rejection of marriage (Strom.., Ill, 92). 
! At the opposite extreme to the ascetic sects were the Carpo- 
cratians. This sect is a peculiar phenomenon even in the curious 
penumbra of eccentric sects which gathered round the Church 
in the second century and claimed the name of Christian. The 
evidence concerning the sect is not a little obscure. The origin 
of the sect is ascribed by Clement and Irenaeus to a man Carpo- 
crates, but his historical existence has been doubted. We have 
to examine the possibility that Clement and Irenaeus assumed 
that the sect was founded by a man of this name, just as Ter- 
tullian invents a mythical Ebion as founder of the Ebionites. 

The earliest writer to speak of the sect is Celsus, the pagan 
critic of Christianity whose True Doctrine was probably written 
about A.D. 177-180. He enumerates several Christian sects, ob- 
serving that none is willing to co-operate with any other. There 
are, he says, 'Marcellians who follow Marcellina, and Harpo- 
cratians who follow Salome, and others who follow Mariamme, 
and others who follow Martha." The immorality of some of these 
groups is even more shameful, he thinks, than that associated 
with the hero-cult paid to Hadrian's favourite Antinous. For 
his factual information about these sects Celsus seems to have 
been dependent not upon a first-hand acquaintance but upon 
some orthodox Christian pamphlet (elsewhere his remarks about 
Marcion strongly suggest that such anti-heretical literature lay 
before him; eft Origen, contra Celsum, VI, 53, with my note 
thereon). He goes on to observe that some of these heretics are 
called (presumably by their orthodox critics) "Circes and wily 
agitators," and others "Sirens . . . who seal the ears of their 
converts and make their heads like pigs." 31 

Contemporary with Celsus is the bare mention of the Carpo- 
cratians in the Memoirs of Hegesippus (in Eusebius, H.E., IV, 
22:5), but this tells us nothing of the doctrine of the sect. 32 

si Origen, contra Celsum, V, 62-64. For " Circes " cf. Clem. Strom., VII, 95. 

32 Bishop Lightfoot, St. Clement of Rome., I (1890), pp. 328 ff., tried to prove 
that the account of the Carpocratians in Epiphanius, Panarion, XXVII, 6, 
was based on the lost Memoirs of Hegesippus. His view was accepted by 
Zahn (Forsch. z. Gesch. d. JV. T. Kanons, VI (1900), pp. 258 f.), Harnack 
(Chronologic, I (1897), pp. 184 f.), and H.J. Lawlor (Eusebiana (1912), pp. 
7 ff.). This view, however, has not survived the criticisms of Karl Holl in 
his notes on this passage in his edition of Epiphanius (Vol. I (1915), pp. 
308-309), which make it clear that Epiphanius gives no evidence of hav- 
ing had any sources in front of him other than Irenaeus and Eusebius. 



GENERAL INTRODUCTION 25 

According to the summary of Irenaeus, reproduced in essen- 
tials by most of the later anti-heretical writers, 33 Carpocrates 
believed that the world was created by inferior angels. Jesus, 
son of Joseph, however, exercising his Platonic powers of anam- 
nesis ^ remembered what he had seen in the divine sphere, and on 
this account power came upon him from the Father to enable 
him to escape from the world-creators. Souls like Jesus can 
similarly overcome the world, being visited by the same power 
which they can obtain by magic. Those who possess it can in- 
dulge in any practice without danger, since right and wrong are 
merely human conventions. It is by faith and love that we are 
saved. If it is to avoid reincarnation the soul must have experi- 
ence of everything, this being the meaning of Jesus' words, 
"Thou shalt not go forth thence till thou hast paid the last 
farthing." 

Irenaeus concludes his account of the Carpocratians by 
observing that one group of them was led by a lady named Mar- 
cellina who came to Rome in the time of Pope Anicetus (c. A.D. 
155-166). This group had a ceremony of initiation which was a 
literal baptism by fire; initiates were branded with a hot iron at 
the back of the lobe of the right ear. Irenaeus' information thus 
fills out and substantiates the obscure references in Celsus. The 
Carpocratian ceremony of baptism by branding the ear is also 
mentioned by the Valentinian Heracleon. 34 

Hitherto the evidence considered is reasonably coherent and 
self-consistent. But some modern writers doubt whether 
Clement's information in the third book of the Miscellanies is 
equally reliable. Clement gives here substantial quotations from 
a book attributed to Carpocrates' son Epiphanes entitled Con- 
cerning Righteousness. This work merely consists of the scribblings 
of an intelligent but nasty-minded adolescent of somewhat 
pornographic tendencies. The work attempts to justify extreme 
sexual licence by a communistic theory: the existence of private 
property is of human invention and has no divine sanction; 
communism is therefore to be practised in sexual relationships. 

33 Irenaeus, adv. Haer., L, 25; Hippolytus, Refut., VII, 32; Tertullian, de 
Anima, 23 and 35; Eusebius, H.E. 9 IV, 7:9^; Ps.-Tertullian, adv. Omn. 
Haer., 3; Filastrius, 35; Theodoret, Haer. Fab. Comp., I, 5; Augustine, de 
Haer., 7; Didymus, de Trinitate, III, 42; Ps.-Anthimus of Nicomedia (? = 
Marcellus of Ancyra), de Sancta Ecclesia, 6 (Studi e Testi, V, 1901). 

34 "Some brand with fire the ears of those whom they seal" (ap. Clem. Alex., 
Ed. Proph., XXV, i). See F. J. Dolger, "Die Sphragis als religiose Brand- 
markung im Einweihungsakt der gnostischen Karpokratianer," in Antike 
tmd Christmtum, I (1929), pp. 73-78. 



26 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

The difficulty, however, lies in Clement's remarkable account 
of the posthumous cult of Epiphanes. He affirms that Epiphanes' 
father, Carpocrates, was an Alexandrian. His mother, named 
Alexandria, came from the town of Same in the island of 
Cephallenia in the Ionian islands. After their son died at the 
tender age of seventeen they founded a temple in his honour at 
Same, and the islanders used to gather once a month for a 
religious beano in celebration of the hero's birthday. 

Volkmar entirely disbelieved in the existence of such a person 
as Epiphanes. He held that Clement had totally misunderstood 
a new moon festival at Same, in some account of which the new 
moon was entitled epiphanes. 3 5 A modified form of this radical 
hypothesis was accepted by Lipsius. 36 He saw that there must 
have been an Alexandrian gnostic named Epiphanes who was 
author of the book Concerning Righteousness, but this person has 
no connection with the moon-god worshipped on Cephallenia. 

Celsus calls the sect cc Harpocratians." From this the conclu- 
sion has been drawn that the name of the sect was not taken 
from any man Carpocrates, but from the Egyptian deity Horus, 
son of Isis and Osiris, who was worshipped by the Greeks under 
the name Carpocrates or Harpocrates (both forms of the name 
occur in inscriptions) . Egyptian deities were worshipped in Asia 
Minor and the Greek islands. 37 Harpocrates may well have been 
worshipped at Cephallenia, although no inscriptions have been 
found there to prove it. 38 He may there have been associated 
with a feminine consort named after the city Alexandria, and 
his cult fused with a local cult of some Cephallenian deity, theos 
epiphanes.* 9 

35 G. Volkmar, "Ober die Haretiker Epiphanes und Adrianus," in Monats- 
schrift des wissenschaftlichen Vereins in Zurich, I (1856), pp. 276-282, critic- 
ized by Hilgenfeld briefly in geitschr.f. wiss. TheoL, V (1862), p. 426, n. 2, 
and at length in his Die Ketzergeschichte Urchristentums (1884), pp. 402 f. 
For a good summary in English see G. Salmon in Diet. Chr. Biogr., s.v. 
"Epiphanes." 

36 R. A. Lipsius, Zjur Quellenkritik des Epiphanios (Vienna, 1865), P- I ^ r - 

37 See T. A. Brady, The Reception of Egyptian Cults by the Greeks (Univ. of Mis- 
souri Studies, X (1935)); M. P. Nilsson, Geschichte der griechischen Religion, 
II (1950), p. 1 18; D. Magic, "Egyptian Deities in Asia Minor in Inscrip- 
tions and on Coins," in Amer. Journ. Arch^ LVII (1953), pp. 163-187. 

38 The poverty of epigraphical evidence of any kind from Same is remarked 
by G. KlafTenbach, "Bericht iiber eine epigraphische Reise durch Mittel- 
griechenland und die lonischen Inseln," in Sitzungsberichte d. preuss, Akad. 
d. Wiss. (1935), pp. 691-726, at pp. 711 f. For a dedication to Isis and 
Sarapis at nearby Corcyra, cf. Inscr. Gr., IX, 716. 

39 W. Schultz, Dokumente der Gnosis (1910), pp. Ixviii, 160; EL Leisegang, Die 



GENERAL INTRODUCTION 27 

Against this view we have to reckon the explicit and detailed 
statements which Clement makes, even to the inclusion of the 
precise age at which Epiphanes died. Clement's story is circum- 
stantial. And as a general rule it is safe to say that Clement is the 
most reliable of all early Christian writers on gnosticism. On 
Basilides and Valentine he is extremely well informed. It would 
be remarkable if he were to be completely mistaken in this 
instance. In a recent attempt to discredit Clement's evidence 
Heinz Kraft has emphasized the silence of Clement regarding 
Marcellina and the ceremony of branding the ear with hot iron. 
But this proves nothing. In any event Clement is in entire 
accord with both Celsus and Irenaeus in representing the sect as 
wholeheartedly licentious. 

Clement's only statement about the metaphysics of the Carpo- 
cratians is that they believed in "the monadic gnosis." This is 
not supported by Irenaeus or Hippolytus, but it is curiously 
echoed by two Latin Christian writers who have been suspected 
of using a lost work of Hippolytus. 40 And it is entirely in 
Clement's manner to concentrate attention upon the ethics 
rather than the metaphysics of the heretical sects. Basilides is 
treated in exactly this way. The cryptic statement that the doc- 
trine of the Monad was important for the Carpocratians is 
perhaps explained by the quotation Clement makes (Strom^ III, 
29) from a lost apocryphal work and which he regards as "the 
mother of their licentiousness." It is an account of the origin of 
the world: the Monad was alone at first, but since it seemed good 
to its unity not to be alone an Idea came forth from it, and from 
the intercourse of Monad and Idea came the invisible powers of 
the cosmos. Clement observes that the Valentinian doctrine is 
superficially akin to this, but that in Valentine's system the 
union of the pairs in the Pleroma is wholly "spiritual," whereas 
the licentious sects have understood the union in crudely 
physical terms. 

Clement's statement that Epiphanes 3 birthday was celebrated 

Gnosis (3rd edn., 1941), pp. 257 fT. The case has been argued with at least 
the maximum of plausibility by H. Kraft, "Gab es einen Gnostiker Karpo- 
krates?"in Theol. eitschr., VIII (1952), pp. 434-443. The position of de 
Faye (Gnostiques et Gnosticisme (1925), pp. 413-419) is agnostic: there is no 
proof that the Garpocratian sect was founded by Epiphanes 5 father; it 
may have been another man named Carpocrates, but we really have no 
certain knowledge about the sect whatever. The reliability of Clement's 
statements is upheld by Hilgenfeld, Ketzergeschichte, p. 403; H. Liboron, 
Die karpokratianische Gnosis (1938), pp. 10 ff. 
40 Strom., Ill, 5. Cf. Ps.-Tertullian, adv. Omn. Haer., 3; Filastrius, 35. 



28 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

monthly offers no ground for supposing that he was really a 
moon-god. There is plenty of evidence that in antiquity birth- 
days were celebrated monthly. 41 

The story of the posthumous cult of Epiphanes at Same is 
certainly remarkable. Clement evidently thought so, or he 
would not have reported the details. The cult does not appear 
to be more remarkable than the hero-cult paid to Hadrian's 
favourite, the boy Antinous who was drowned in the Nile in 
A.D. 130. The emperor believed the boy had become a star. 42 
The celebrations at Antinoopolis in Egypt were attended by 
nocturnal orgies so notorious that they were generally deplored 
by such writers as Celsus and were a godsend to critics of pagan- 
ism like the Christian apologists. Indeed, when Celsus com- 
pares the licentiousness of the Carpocratians with that of the 
revellers of the cult of Antinous he may have been nearer the 
truth than he knew. It is not impossible that the Carpocratians 
modelled their practice on the recently founded cult of Hadrian's 
favourite. The activities of Carpocrates are no doubt rightly 
dated by Theodoret in the time of Hadrian. And it would not 
be a unique case of cultus offered to a young child early ripened 
for heaven. A famous inscription found on the island of Thera 
records that a Mouseion was built by a husband and wife, whose 
impulse to found the place came from the early death of their 
young son. An annual sacrifice was offered and a meal eaten 
there in memory of dead members of the family. 43 Clement does 
not say that the Carpocratian sect flourished in Cephallenia. 
But that Epiphanes' parents founded a temple there in his 
memory and venerated him as a hero is not inconceivable. Nor 
is it incredible that a seventeen-year-old boy of some ability, 
even if of little moral education, should have written the 
work Concerning Righteousness. 

Clement makes the Carpocratians responsible for bringing 

41 See E. Schtirer, "Zu II Mace. 6, 7 (monatliche Geburtstagfeier)," in 
Zeitschr.f. d. JV. T. Wiss., II (1901), pp. 48-52; G. Wissowa, "Monatliche 
Geburtstagfeier," in Hermes, XXXVII (1902), pp. 157-159; E. Rohde, 
Psyche (Eng. tr., 1925), p. 197. 

42 Dio Ca$sius, 69, n; Tatian, Oratio ad Graecos, 10. For the widespread 
ancient belief that a dead child became a star and for the practice of offer- 
ing sacrifice to such, cf. F. Cumont, Lux Perpetua (1949), pp. 183-184. 

43 The comparison between Epiphanes and the Thera inscription (Inscr. 
Gr. t XII, 3:330) is made by Usener, Das Weihnachtsfest (2nd edn., 1911), 
p. 114, n. 10, though Usener could not believe that the Cephallenian 
Epiphanes is identical with the author of the book Concerning Righteous- 
ness. On the Thera inscription, cf. also Wilamowitz, Glaube der Helknen 
(1932), II, p. 140, n. 2. 



GENERAL INTRODUCTION 2g 

upon the Christians the popular scandal that they indulged in 
immorality. This charge is often rebutted by the apologists of 
the second century, though Celsus is sufficiently well informed 
to know that there is no truth in the story. Origen (who thought 
the story was put into circulation by the Jews) tells us that in 
his time " these allegations are now condemned even by the 
multitude and by people entirely alien to our religion as being 
a false slander against the Christians." But in the second century 
the scandal was widely believed. "This malicious rumour/' 
Origen observes, "some time ago exercised an unreasonable 
influence on a very large number and persuaded people know- 
ing nothing of the gospel that this really was the character of 
Christians. And even now it still deceives some who by such 
stories are repelled from approaching Christians even if only 
for a simple conversation." 44 When the rumour began it is not 
possible to say, but it is certainly earlier than the Carpocratians. 
The language of Tacitus and of the younger Pliny about "the 
vices with which the name Christian is associated" 45 suggests 
that it was current by the end of the first century. 

Three other groups of licentious gnostics are mentioned by 
Clement. Of those whom he calls Antitactae nothing is known 
from elsewhere. The Nicolaitans (cf. Rev. 2 :6) claimed to follow 
Nicolas the proselyte of Antioch. Clement disputes this claim; 
some scholars have thought him correct, and have explained 
the name "Nicolaitans" as due to the common anxiety of here- 
tics to father their opinions on some New Testament personage. 
On the other hand, it is obvious that Clement's remarks about 
Nicolas are whitewash. Clement was anxious to clear a promi- 
nent person of the apostolic age from any responsibility for 
those who claimed his authority, just as he also argues that the 
Cephas with whom Paul had a battle royal at Antioch (Gal. 
2:11 f.) was not Simon Peter the apostle but another disciple of 
the same name who was one of the seventy sent out by Jesus. 46 
As late as the fifth century John Cassian attacks people who 
deny that the Nicolas of Acts, ch. 6, is to be identified with the 
leader of the Nicolaitan sect. 47 

44 Origen, contra Celsum, VI, 40, and 27. 

45 Pliny, Epist., X, 96: flagitia cohaerentia nomini. Tacitus (Am., XV, 44) 
similarly says that the Christians were "hated for their vices'* (perflagitia 
invisos). 

46 Clement in Eusebius, H.E., I, 12:1 f. 

47 Coll., XVIII, 1 6:6. Further material on the Nicolaitans in Harnack, 
Geschichte der altchr. Litt., I, p. 156; M. Goguel, "Les Nicolaites/' in Revue 
de I 9 hist, des religions, CXV (1937), pp. 5-36. 



30 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

Prodicus (Strom., III, 30) is a shadowy figure of uncertain 
date, and most of what we know about him is derived from 
Clement. Besides his immoral teaching he denied the utility of 
prayer on the ground that since God already knows all our 
needs there is not the slightest reason to inform him of them 
(Strom., VII, 41)5 an opinion dealt with by Origen (de Orat.,V, i). 
Clement also says that his followers prided themselves on pos- 
sessing some writings of Zoroaster (Strom., I, 69) ; we know from 
Porphyry's Life of Plotinus (c. xvi) that "apocalypses of 
Zoroaster" were current among the gnostics. 48 The followers of 
Prodicus knew themselves to be saved and that nothing could 
interfere with the predeterminate counsel of God; they there- 
fore held that apostasy in persecution was a matter of no moral 
significance for the elect, 49 This is about the sum of our know- 
ledge about the sect. Apart from this there is only the dubious 
statement of Theodore t that Prodicus was leader of the Adamite 
sect, a group of nudist encratites of whom Epiphanius gives an 
account based on hearsay in his "Medicine-Chest for the Cure 
of all Heresies." so 

Between the two extremes, the rigidly ascetic and the freely 
licentious, there stand the two most prominent Christian gnos- 
tics, Basilides and Valentine. 

Basilides and his son Isidore held marriage to be no sin, and 
allowed it on the apostolic ground that it was indeed better to 
marry than to burn. But it was to be avoided by the man who 
was ambitious to attain perfection. The followers of Basilides in 
the next generation after his death departed from their master's 
teaching and fell into licentious ways (Strom., Ill, 3). When 
Irenaeus accuses Basilides of immorality, the charge is evidently 
not true of the master himself, though we have Clement's testi- 
mony that it was true of the Basilidians of his own time. 
Irenaeus, however, is not well informed about the teaching of 
the historical BasiHdes. 

The Valentinians were distinguished from other gnostics by 
their warm approval of monogamous marriage. For Valentine 
there was no question of any licentiousness, nor of any frowning 
disapproval, much less outright rejection, of the married state. 
According to Tertullian the Valentinians accounted the un- 
married as on a lower level than the married (adv. VaL, 30), a 

48 Cf. H. G. Puech in Coptic Studies in Honor of W. E. Crum (Boston, Mass., 

*95)> PP- 107-108, 132-134, 
W Tertullian, Scorpiace, 15 (cf. add. Prax. 3). 
$ Theodoret, Haer. Fab. Comp., I, 6; Epiphanius, Panarion, 52. 



GENERAL INTRODUCTION 31 

view which was hardly likely to recommend Valentinianism to 
the North African rigorist. 51 This feature is the more remark- 
able in that of all the gnostic teachers Valentine was the most 
deeply influenced by Platonism, which might have encouraged 
in him a pessimistic view of the world. His approval of marriage 
was grounded upon his fantastic metaphysics, to which the 
Hellenistic commonplace idea that things on earth have their 
counterpart of things in heaven is integral. The Godhead, the 
Pleroma or fullness, consists of thirty spiritual beings called aeons. 
The Pleroma begins with Depth (Bythos) and his consort Silence 
(Sige) 9 whose marriage produces Mind and Truth. These in 
turn beget Word and Life, to whom are born Man and Church. 
These eight form the Ogdoad. In the same kind of way the rest 
of the Pleroma gradually evolves until the full number of thirty 
aeons is attained. We need not stop here on the further develop- 
ment of the system. The sacred marriages of the aeons in the 
Godhead (cf. Strom., Ill, 29) are for Valentine the model for 
earthly activity. The marriage of the Valentinian bridegroom 
with his Valentinian bride is the earthly counterpart of the 
whole process of evolution enacted in the very life of God, who 
is the Pleroma. It is a foretaste, therefore, of that final bliss in the 
heavenly marriage feast to which all the saved (i.e. the Valen- 
tinians) are invited, when they are to strip themselves of their 
souls, their wedding garments, and pass into the bridal chamber, 
the Pleroma itself, where they enjoy unutterable union and the 
beatific vision. 52 

With the teaching of Basilides and more especially of Valen- 
tine Clement found himself in a fair degree of sympathy. Both 
are men of eminence whom he always regards with respect, 
even though he is aware of important differences. His main 
complaint is against the general gnostic tendency to adopt ex- 
treme predestinarian views. Most of the sects held that they 
alone were the saved, they alone had the divine spark within. 
The Naassene sect is quoted by Hippolytus as saying, "We 
alone of all men are Christians" (Ref., V, 9:22). 53 Basilides 

51 According to Irenaeus (I, 6:4) the Valentinians taught that marriage w^ 
indeed a mark of the elect "pneumatic." But continence has to be prac- 
tised by the "psychic" if he wished to be saved. 

52 Clement, Exc. Theod,, LXIII-IV; Heracleon in Origen, Comm. in Evang. 
loannis, X, 19; XIII, 52; Irenaeus, I, 7:1. 

5 3 The pagan Celsus says of the Christian sects: "They slander one another 
with dreadful and unspeakable words of abuse; and they will not make 
even the least concession to reach agreement, for they utterly detest each 
other" (Origen, contra Celsum, V, 63; cf. Ill, 10-12). 



32 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

stood far nearer to orthodox Christianity than the Naassenes, 
whose connections with the faith were, to say the least, thin. 
He seems to have held a rigorous division of mankind into the 
saved and the lost in accordance with a "supra-cosmic election" 
(Strom., II, 10; V, 3; IV, 165). But we are not told that he 
identified his own adherents with the saved exclusively. Valen- 
tine was more explicit. He divided mankind into three classes, 
following Paul's tripartite division of man into body, soul, and 
spirit (I Thess. 5:23). Humanity consisted of those whose essen- 
tial nature was spirit, the pneumatics; those whose nature was 
of soul-stuff, the psychics; and those who were merely of the 
earth, earthy. The pneumatics with whom the Valentinians 
naturally identified themselves were wholly predetermined to 
gain complete salvation and incorporation into the Pleroma. 
The earthy class were equally absolutely predestined for hell. 
The middle class, however, the psychics, consisted of the ordinary 
members of the Christian Church who did not attend Valen- 
tine's conventicle. The Valentinian was permitted to hope for 
their salvation; they might be saved or they might be lost; 
everything depended on their use of free will. 

This threefold division Valentine takes right through his en- 
tire system. He found the middle or ' "psychic" category particu- 
larly useful for his Christology. Jesus' body, he held, was not 
purely spiritual, as the cruder docetists had taught. Nor, on the 
other hand, was it of earthy matter, as simple church teachers 
believed. It was made of soul-stuff; it was psychic. Clement 
regards this idea with some anxiety as being at least in principle 
docetic; for in Strom., Ill, 102 he remarks that because they 
regard birth into a material body as an evil thing Cassian and 
Marcion hold their docetic opinions "and even Valentine 
indeed teaches that Christ's body was psychic." Nevertheless, 
Clement is able to quote with approval Valentine's letter to one 
Agathopus, saying that Jesus "ate and drank in a manner 
peculiar to himself and the food did not pass out of his body." 
There was no normal digestive process (Strom.., Ill, 59). 54 Else- 
where Clement advances a similar view on his own, when he 
remarks that Jesus certainly ate and drank, not because he 
needed to do so, for his body was sustained by divine power, but 

54 Origen attacks Valentinus' Christology in his Commentary on Galatians 
(quoted in Pamphjlus' Apology for Origen: Lommatzsch, XXIV, 365 ff.). 
". . . Si vero quis indignas obscocnasque ad haec proferat inquisitiones, 
requirens si etiam digestiones in corpore fiebant, nihil absurdum videtur 
fatcri secundum consequentiam naturae corporeae." 



GENERAL INTRODUCTION 33 

because he wished to forestall the Docetists (Strom., VI, 71). 
Valentine's concession to the docetic spirit in admitting that the 
body of Jesus was not of common matter but was psychic led to 
trouble in the Valentinian school. If psychic, why could it not 
be pneumatic? According to Hippolytus (Ref., VI, 35:5-7) this 
problem led to a split in the Valentinian ranks: the Italian 
school led by Ptolemy and Heracleon held that the body was 
psychic, the Eastern School led by Axionicus of Antioch and 
Bardesanes of Edessa that it was pneumatic. 

IV 

Clement's personal attitude to marriage is curiously con- 
fused. Against the heretics he has to give a positive evaluation 
of marriage as the creation of a beneficent Creator. And in this 
spirit he can say that the unmarried man is inferior to the mar- 
ried man, because he tends to be more selfish and has fewer 
opportunities of self-denial; the married man, on the other hand, 
can show his mettle "by rising superior to every temptation that 
assails him through his children and his wife, his servants and 
possessions' 5 (Strom., VII, 70). Again, he remarks that the mar- 
ried and unmarried states are alike gifts of God (III, 79). Echo- 
ing Stoic teaching, he insists that marriage is to be undertaken 
for patriotic reasons and for the maintenance of the human 
race (II, 140). The first-century Stoic Musonius Rufus asks: 
"Is it fitting for each man to act for himself alone or to act in 
the interest of his neighbour also, not only that there may be 
homes in the city but also that the city may not be deserted and 
that the common good may best be served? If you say that each 
one should look out for his own interests alone, you represent 
man as no different from a wolf. ... It is each man's duty to 
take thought for his own city, and to make of his home a ram- 
part for its protection. But the first step toward making his home 
such a rampart is marriage. Thus whoever destroys human 
marriage destroys the home, the city, and the whole human 
race. For it would not last if there were no procreation of 
children and there would be no just and lawful procreation of 
children without marriage. 5 ' 55 Clement resists the gnostic 
world-denying understanding of the New Testament, insisting 
that the apostles themselves were married. Even Paul, he thinks, 

35 Musonius, frag. 14 Hensc. I cite the translation of Cora E. Lutz in Tale 
Classical Studies, 10 (1947)9 pp. 92-93. The "patriotic" niotive for mar- 
riage is attacked by Tertullian, Exh. Cast., 12. 
A.C. 3 



34 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

was married, and "the only reason why he did not take her 
about with him was that it would have been an inconvenience 
for his ministry" (Strom., Ill, 53). 5<5 

On the other hand, he often expresses himself in terms which 
are scarcely consistent with so positive an attitude. Indeed, al- 
though the apostles, as Paul tells us (I Cor. 9), took their wives 
about with them that the gospel might be preached in the 
women's quarters without scandal, 57 they lived with their con- 
sorts as brother and sister. When the heretics who reject mar- 
riage affirm that they are living now the life of the world to 
come where there is no marriage (Strom.., Ill, 48), 58 Clement 
replies that to be consistent they ought equally to abstain from 
food and drink. Yet when he himself speaks of the spiritual per- 
fection of the true gnostic, he can say that his passionless life, 
in that he lives with his wife as with a sister, is a realization on 
earth of the resurrection state (VI, 100). In short, the best 
Christians in Clement's view are those who are married but 
have no sexual relations with their wives. 59 The degree to which 
he shared his opponents 3 presuppositions is shown by his dis- 
tinction between the pagan ideal of self-control and the Chris- 
tian ideal. The difference is that while the pagan ascetic feels 
desire and does not give in to it, the Christian is not to feel any- 
thing at all (Strom., Ill, 57-58). 

Thus Clement's position is vacillating. Despite his anxiety to 
vindicate marriage as created by God, at heart he shared the 
idea that sex relations are to be avoided. The notion that defile- 
ment attaches to sexual relations is ancient enough, and is 
prominent in much ancient religion. The Christians took it over, 
so that Origen, for example, directs that prayer should not be 
made in bed, since the marriage union takes place there (de 
Orat. XXXI, 4). Like Ignatius of Antioch, Origen also enjoins 
continence before receiving the eucharistic bread. 60 And he de- 
clares expressly that he cannot think of the presence of the Holy 
Spirit at the time of sexual union: "Lawful marriages are not 

s<s No doubt she would not have fitted comfortably into the basket when her 
husband escaped from Damascus over the city wall. 

57 Similarly Didascalia Apost., 16 (ed. R. H. Connolly, p. 148). 

58 That the celibate lives an angelic life on earth is commonplace in later 
ascetic writings: Basil of Ancyra, de VirginitaU, 51 (Migne, P.G., XXX, 
772 A); JeromCj adv. lomn.^ L, 36; Augustine, de Bono Coning^ 8; de Soncto 
Virg., 4 and 12, etc. 

Similarly Methodius, Symposium, IX, 4:252. 

& Ignatius, Ep. ad Pofyc., V, a; Origen, w / Cor., VII, 5 (ed. Jenkins, 
3.T.S., IX (1908), P . 502), 



GENERAL INTRODUCTION 35 

sinful; but at the time when the sex act is performed the Holy 
Spirit will^ not be given, even if it were a prophet doing the act 
of generation. Moreover, there are many other things for which 
only human power is required, and for which neither does the 
act itself need, nor is it proper for it to have, the presence of the 
Holy Spirit." 61 Even Clement implies as much when he ob- 
serves that after intercourse Christians need no ceremonial 
washing such as that prescribed in Leviticus, since they are 
cleansed once for all by their baptism for every such occasion 
(Strom., Ill, 82). 

The most obvious outcome of this tendency is the demand for 
clerical celibacy which becomes prominent in the fourth cen- 
tury. Since the clergy offer the Church's sacrifice, they must 
always be free from defilement; therefore they must abstain 
from all sexual intercourse. The argument is explicit in Ambrose 
of Milan (de Officiis, I, 50:258), and the contemporary Pope 
Siricius, Bishop of Rome 384-399, did all in his power to en- 
force the celibate ideal on the same ground. Chastity is required 
of "bishops, presbyters, and deacons, who take part in the 
divine sacrifices, by whose hands both the grace of baptism is 
given and the body of Christ made." 62 Paul, according to 
Siricius, teaches in I Cor. 7:5 that the laity must be continent if 
their prayers are to be heard "How much more ought a priest 
to be ready at any moment, without anxiety whether he is pure 
and clean, in case he should either offer the sacrifice (of the 
eucharist) or be compelled to give baptism? If he should be con- 
taminated by carnal desire, what is he to do? Is he to excuse 
himself?" 63 The movement furthered with enthusiasm by Am- 
brose and Siricius was in full accord with the ascetic ideals of 
the age. Although the laity continued to express their preference 
for married clergy, it was explained that they did not know 
what was good for them. 64 

The third and seventh books of Clement's Miscellanies are 
documents of the first importance for understanding the origins 
of Christian asceticism. The tremendous strength of the gnostic 
position against which Clement contends lay in its not unjusti- 
fied appeal to the world-denying strain in New Testament 

61 Origan, Horn, in Num., VI, 3. 

Siricius, Ep. 10 ad Gallos episcopos, of A.D. 391 (PJL., XIII, 11846). Cf. 
Jerome, c. lovin, I, 34. For a full account of the development of clerical 
celibacy see H, Leclercq's article "Celibat" in Diet. d'archeoL chrA. etde 
liturgie, II, 2 (1910), cols. 2802-2832. 

Siricius, Ep. 5 ad episcopos Africae (P.L., XIII, 1160). 

64 Jerome, c. lovin., I, 34. 



36 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

thought. If redemption is made the focal point of theology at 
the expense of the doctrine of Creation, this present world can 
hardly seem other than something from which we must pray to 
be delivered at an early opportunity. So long as the Gospel re- 
mained on Palestinian soil, it was controlled by the tradition of 
Judaism which was very different from that of the Graeco- 
Oriental world. Dr. K. E. Kirk has written: "Judaism . . * was 
too deeply committed to the doctrine of the goodness of all 
God's creation, and the divine authority for peopling the world 
and reaping the fruits of the earth, to admit any large element 
of asceticism or self-mortification into its constitution, even when 
it thought of the coming Day of the Lord." 65 But when with 
Paul, a hellenistic Jew of the Dispersion, the Gospel is launched 
on the hellenistic world, this world-denying strain in the New 
Testament meets, so to speak, with a resonant sounding-board 
upon which the gospel of redemption from sin becomes vastly 
magnified and filled out to be redemption from this material 
world, the body, and all the ills that flesh is heir to. 

The Christian apologists of the second century were well 
aware that they were addressing a world in which renunciation 
of marriage was highly regarded. They could point with no 
little pride to Christian men and women devoted to lifelong 
chastity. 66 The fact that Christian virgins had such a consider- 
able "sales value'' is in itself highly significant. We have the 
testimony of the medical writer Galen concerning the impres- 
sion which such remarkable chastity made on his mind. He 
writes of the Christians as follows: "Their contempt of death is 
patent to us every day, and likewise their restraint in cohabita- 
tion. For they include not only men but also women' who refrain 
from cohabiting all through their lives; and they also number 
individuals who, in self-discipline and self-control in matters of 
food and drink, and in their keen pursuit of justice, have 
attained a pitch not inferior to that of genuine philosophers." 67 
The inconveniences and encumbrances of married life are a 
matter of frequent comment in ancient writers. "From a dislike 
of its inconveniences the Greeks have made many adverse 
observations about the birth of children," remarks Clement 

65 The Vision of God, p. 61. 

Justin, ApoL, I, 15:6; Tatian, XXXII, 2; Athenagoras, Leg., XXXIII, i; 

Minucius Felix, XXXI, 5; Tertullian, ApoL, IX, 19; Eusebius of Caesarea, 

Laus Const,, XVII, 6; Origen, contra Celsum, VII, 48. 
<7 I quote the translation of R. Walzer, Galen on Jews and Christians (1949), 

p. 15 (see his discussion, pp. 56 ff.). 



GENERAL INTRODUCTION 37 

(Strom., Ill, 22). The works of Theophrastus and Seneca on 
marriage, and above all the writings of the third-century 
Neoplatonist Porphyry, who collected together an enormous 
amount of material from earlier writers on this theme, illustrate 
Clement's observation. The Christian writers on asceticism in 
the fourth century drew heavily on Porphyry, undeterred by the 
fact that he was the most prominent and dangerous critic of 
Christianity of his time. Jerome plunders his work On Abstinence 
to refute the claim of Jovinian that virginity was in no degree 
superior to marriage; he does not dare to make any acknowledg- 
ment of his borrowings from such a source. 68 Porphyry also 
exercised some influence upon the ascetic ideals of Basil the 
Great. 69 We find frequent occurrence of the argument that if 
even good pagans practise the ascetic life, the chastity of Chris- 
tians must at least exceed theirs. 70 

Towards second marriage Clement shares the widespread 
early Christian feeling that it is best avoided, but with Paul he 
allows it OH the ground that "it is better to marry than to burn." 
If a man makes use of the concession allowed by the apostle, 
"he does not commit any sin according to the Old Testament 
(for it was not forbidden by the Law) but he does not fulfil the 
heightened perfection of the gospel ethic" (Strom., Ill, 4 and 
82). That second marriage is only tolerable as the lesser of two 
evils is a very general notion in Christian writers of this period, 
including the Shepherd of Hermas (Mand., IV, 4), Justin 
Martyr (ApoL, I, 15:5), and Athenagoras, who describes it as 
"fair-seeming adultery" (Leg., 33:2). The Montanists altogether 
excommunicated those who contracted second marriages, 
whether clerical or lay (see Tertullian, de Monogama). But the 
Church at large took Paul to tolerate, though not to approve, 
the practice in the case of laymen; 71 

A passage from one of Origen's sermons on St. Luke may 
illustrate Christian feeling in this matter: "Just as not only 
fornication but marriage is a disqualification for ecclesiastical 

68 E. Bickel, Diatribe in Senecae Philosophi Fragmenta, I (Leipzig, 1915), pp. 
129-220; P. Courcelle, Les Lettres grecques en Occident de Macrobe d Cassia- 
dare (Paris, 1948), pp. 325 ff. 

69 D. Amand, Uascese monastique de saint Basik (Maredsous, 1949), p. 71 ff. 

70 E.g., Basil of Ancyra, de Virgin., 67 (P.&, XXX, 805 B). 

71 Origen comments in this sense on I Cor. 7:8-12 (J.T.S., IX (1908), 
p. 504). We may also note that the rigorist Novatianists of the East al- 
together rejected the twice married (canon 8 of Nicaea), but their 
Western brethren freely received such people to communion (Socrates, 
H.E., V, 22:60-61). 



38 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

office, for neither bishop, nor presbyter, nor deacon, nor widow 
can be twice married: so also perhaps the twice-married will be 
expelled from the assembly of the firstborn and of the unspotted 
members of the Church that has no spot or blemish not that he 
will be sent into eternal fire, but he will have no part in the 
kingdom of God. I remember that when I was expounding the 
word written to the Corinthians 'The church of God which is at 
Corinth with all who call upon him, 5 I said that there is a dif- 
ference between the Church and those who call upon the name 
of the Lord. For I think that the once married and the virgin 
and he who perseveres in continence are of the Church of God. 
He who is twice married may live a good life and have other 
virtues, but he is not of the Church, of that number who have 
neither spot nor blemish nor any such thing; he is rather of the 
second grade, of those who call on the name of the Lord and are 
saved in the name of Jesus Christ, but are certainly not crowned 
by him." 

It would be difficult to exaggerate the influence of Clement 
and Origen upon later Christian ideas of the ascetic life. The 
Alexandrian spiritual ideals were taken to the Western Church 
by John Cassian and so passed to Benedict. 73 In the East the line 
of direct influence proceeds through Origen's enthusiastic ad- 
mirer and defender, Eusebius of Caesarea, 74 to the group of 
conservative theologians led by Basil of Ancyra and Eustathius 
of Sebaste, whose watchword that the Son was "of like essence" 
with the Father was to play a vital part at a crucial stage of the 
Arian controversy (A.D. 356-361). The tradition was inherited 
by Basil the Great, whose organization of monasticism was to 
prove decisive for the Eastern Church. 

The seventh book of the Stromateis shows Clement setting forth 
his ascetic theology at its most impressive. The Christian life is 
conceived of as a ladder of ascent. The soul progresses from 
faith to knowledge; by suppression of the unreasoning passions 
and by works of love it mounts to union with God and the 
beatific vision. Dominant in Clement's thought is the idea of 
sanctification. The true "gnostic" advances by a continuous 
moral progress until, "leaving behind all hindrances and scorn- 

72 Origen, Horn, in Lucam, XVII. 

73 W. O. Chadwick, John Cassian (Cambridge. 1950). The spiritual ideals of 
Clement and Origen have been studied in two fine books by W. Volker, 
Das Vollkommenheitsideal des Origenes (1931), and Der wahre Gnostiker nach 
Clemens Alexandrinus (1952). 

74 Eusebius summarizes his ideas about marriage in Demonstratio Evangelica, 
I, 8-9. 



GENERAL INTRODUCTION 39 

ing all the distractions of matter, he cleaves the heaven by his 
wisdom, and having passed through the spiritual entities and 
every rule and authority, he lays hold of the throne on high, 
speeding to that alone, which alone he knows" (Strom., VII, 82). 

Admittedly Clement sets out his mystical ideal with more than 
half an eye on his rivals outside the Church. The heretical sys- 
tems had great attractions for those who wanted to know the 
details of the heavenly hierarchy, and to learn by heart the pass- 
words and correct amulets which would enable them at death 
to ascend through the planetary spheres to the supreme God. 
Clement's language is frequently reminiscent of "gnosticism" of 
a less orthodox stamp. His anxiety is to go one better than the 
sects. Accordingly, he describes the perfection of the true, ortho- 
dox "gnostic" in such absolute terms that it is hard to feel that 
he is in close touch with realities. 

In the last section of the seventh book (89 ff.) Clement turns 
to the problem of Christian disunity. The existence of many 
warring sects raised in an acute form the question of the defini- 
tion of orthodoxy. The problem of defining authentic Chris- 
tianity raises questions of perennial interest in the history of the 
Church. This issue was never more acute than during the 
second century, when the "gnostic" sects were at their height. 

The translation of the third book of the Miscellanies has been 
made from the text of O. Stahlin in the Berlin Corpus (1906), 
and has been revised by comparison with Stahlin's translation 
in the Bibliothek der Kirchenvdter (2. Reihe, Band xvii, Munich, 
1936). The translation of the seventh book is taken from the 
edition by F. J. A. Hort and Joseph B. Mayor (London, Mac- 
millan, 1902). Mayor's translation has been revised at some 
places in accordance with the text of Stahlin. 



On Marriage 

Miscellanies, Book III 

THE TEXT 

CHAPTER I 

i. The Valentinians, who hold that the union of man and 
woman is derived from the divine emanation in heaven above, 
approve of marriage. The followers of Basilides, on the other 
hand, say that when the apostles asked whether it was not better 
not to marry, the Lord replied: "Not all can receive this saying; 
there are some eunuchs who are so from their birth, others are 
so of necessity." 1 And their explanation of this saying is roughly 
as follows: Some men, from their birth, have a natural sense of 
repulsion from a woman; and those who are naturally so con- 
stituted do well not to marry. Those who are eunuchs of neces- 
sity are those theatrical ascetics who only control themselves 
because they have a passion for the limelight. [And those who 
have suffered accidental castration have become eunuchs of 
necessity.] 2 Those, then, who are eunuchs of necessity have no 
sound reason for their abstinence from marriage. But those who 
for the sake of the eternal kingdom have made themselves 
eunuchs derive this idea, they say, from a wish to avoid the dis- 
tractions involved in marriage, because they are afraid of having 
to waste time in providing for the necessities of life. 

2. And they say that by the words "it is better to marry than 
to burn" 3 the apostle means this: "Do not cast your soul into 
the fire, so that you have to endure night and day and go in fear 
lest you should fall from continence. For a soul which has to 

1 Matt. 19:11 f. 

2 This sentence may be a scribe's marginal note which has crept into the 
text. The ground for suspecting it is that, except here, Basilides' exegesis 
of Matt. 19:12 assumes that in all three instances "eunuch" is used 
figuratively rather than literally and simply means "celibate." 

3 1 Cor. 7:9. 

40 



ON MARRIAGE 41 

concentrate upon endurance has lost hope." In his Ethics Isidore 
says in these very words: " Abstain, 4 then, from a quarrelsome 
woman 5 lest you are distracted from the grace of God. But when 
you have rejected the fire of the seed, then pray with an undis- 
turbed conscience. And when your prayer of thanksgiving," he 
says, ce descends to a prayer of request, and your request is not 
that in future you may do right, but that you may do no wrong, 
then marry. But perhaps a man is too young or poor or suffers 
from weak health, and has not the will to marry as the apostle's 
saying suggests. Such a man should not separate himself from 
his brother Christian. He should say, I have come into the sanc- 
tuary, I can suffer nothing. And if he has a presentiment that he 
may fall, he may say, Brother, lay your hand on me lest I sin, 
and he will receive help both spiritually and physically. Let him 
only wish to accomplish what is right and he will achieve his 
object. 

3. "Sometimes, however, we say with our mouth e l wish not 
to sin' while our mind is really inclined towards sin. Such a man 
does not do what he wishes for fear lest any punishment should 
be in store for him. Human nature has some wants which are 
necessary and natural, and others which are only natural. To be 
clothed is necessary and natural; sexual intercourse is natural 
but not necessary." 6 

I have quoted these remarks to prove in error those Basilidians 
who do not live purely, supposing either that they have the 
power even to commit sin because of their perfection, or indeed 
that they will be saved by nature even if they sin in this life be- 
cause they possess an innate election. For the original teachers 
of their doctrines do not allow one to do the same as they are 
now doing. They ought not, therefore, to take as a covering 
cloak the name of Christ and, by living lewder lives than the 
most uncontrolled heathen, bring blasphemy upon his name. 
'Tor such people are false apostles, deceitful workers" as far as 
the words "whose end shall be like their works." 7 

4. Continence is an ignoring of the body in accordance with 
the confession of faith in God. For continence is not merely a 
matter of sexual abstinence, but applies also to the other things 
for which the soul has an evil desire because it is not satisfied 
with tjie necessities of life. There is also a continence of the 
tongue, of money, of use, and of desire. 8 It does not only teach 

4 Adopting Epiphanius* reading. * Cf. Prov. 21 :IQ. 

6 Cf. Epicurus, /rag. 456, Uscner. 1 II Cor. 11:13, 15. 

s Cf. Aristotle, Nicomachean Ethics, 7:4. Strom. 9 III, 59, below. 



4-2 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

us to exercise self-control; it is rather that self-control is granted 
to us, since it is a divine power and grace. 9 Accordingly I must 
declare what is the opinion of our people about this subject. 
Our view is that we welcome as blessed the state of abstinence 
from marriage in those to whom this has been granted by God. 
We admire monogamy and the high standing of single marriage, 
holding that we ought to share suffering with another and "bear 
one another's burdens," 10 lest anyone who thinks he stands 
securely should himself fall. 11 It is of second marriage that the 
apostle says, If you burn, marry. 12 

CHAPTER II 

5. But the followers of Carpocrates and Epiphanes 13 think that 
wives should be common property. Through them the worst 
calumny has become current against the Christian name. This 
fellow Epiphanes, whose writings I have at hand, was a son of 
Carpocrates and his mother was named Alexandria. On his 
father's side he was an Alexandrine, on his mother's a Cephal- 
lenian. He lived in all only seventeen years, and at Same in 
Cephallenia was honoured as a god. There a temple of vast 
blocks of stone was erected and dedicated to him, with altars, 
sacred precincts, and a "museum." The Cephallenians gather 
at the temple every new moon and celebrate with sacrifices the 
day when Epiphanes became a god as his birthday; they pour 
libations to him, feast in his honour, and sing his praises. He was 
educated by his father in the general education and in Platon- 
ism, and he was instructed in the knowledge of the Monad, 
which is the root-origin of the Carpocratians' heresy. 14 

6. This is what he says, then, in the book Concerning Righteous- 
ness: "The righteousness of God is a kind of universal fairness and 
equality. There is equality in the heaven which is stretched out 
in all directions and contains the entire earth in its circle. The 
night reveals equally all the stars. The light of the sun, which is 
the cause of the daytime and the father of light, God pours out 
from above upon the earth in equal measure on all who have 

9 Cf. Strom.) Ill, 57, below. That continence is a gift is a common idea in 
early Christian writers, e.g., I Clement, 38:2; Ignatius, adPolyc., 5:2; and 
Augustine's famous prayer (Conf., 10:40) "Grant that which thou com- 
mandestj and command what thou wilt. Thou dost command us to be 
continent," It goes back to Wisdom of Solomon 8:21. 

10 Gal. 6:2. HI Con 10:12. 

12 I Cor. 7:9; cf. Strom., Ill, 82, below. " See Introduction, pp. 24 i 

14 Cf, the apocryphal work quoted below, III,, 29. 



ON MARRIAGE 43 

power to see. For all see alike. There is no distinction between 
rich and poor, people and governor, stupid and clever, female 
and male, free men and slaves. Even the irrational animals are 
not accorded any different treatment; but in just the same way 
God pours out from above sunlight equally upon all the animals. 
He establishes his righteousness to both good and bad by seeing 
that none is able to get more than his share and to deprive his 
neighbour, so that he has twice the light his neighbour has. The 
sun causes food to grow for all living beings alike; the universal 
righteousness is given to all equally. In this respect there is no 
difference between the entire species of oxen and any individual 
oxen, between the species of pigs and particular pigs, between 
the species of sheep and particular sheep, and so on with all the 
rest. In them the universality of God's fairness is manifest. 
Furthermore all plants of whatever sort are sown equally in the 
earth. Common nourishment grows for all beasts which feed on 
the earth's produce; to all it is alike. It is regulated by no law, 
but rather is harmoniously available to all through the gift of 
him who gives it and makes it to grow. 

7. "And for birth there is no written law (for otherwise it 
would have been transcribed). All beings beget and give birth 
alike, having received by God's righteousness an innate equality. 
The Creator and Father of all with his own righteousness ap- 
pointed this, just as he gave equally the eye to all to enable them 
to see. He did not make a distinction between female and male, 
rational and irrational, nor between anything and anything 
else at all; rather he shared out sight equally and universally. 
It was given to all alike by a single command. As the laws (he 
says) could not punish men who were ignorant of them, they 
taught men that they were transgressors. But the laws, by pre- 
supposing the existence of private property, cut up and destroyed 
the universal equality decreed by the divine law." As he does 
not understand the words of the apostle where he says "Through 
the law I knew sin," 15 he says that the idea of Mine and Thine 
came into existence through the laws so that the earth and 
money were no longer put to common use. And so also with 
marriage. "For God has made vines for all to use in common, 
since they are not protected against sparrows and a thief; and 
similarly corn and the other fruits. But the abolition, contrary 
to divine law, of community of use and equality begat the thief 
of domestic animals and fruits. 

8. "God made all things for man to be common property. 

15 Rom. 7:7- 



44 CLEMENt OF 

He brought female to be with male and in the same way united 
all animals. He thus showed righteousness to be a universal 
fairness and equality. But those who have been born in this way 
have denied the universality which is the corollary of their birth 
and say, 'Let him who has taken one woman keep her/ whereas 
all alike can have her, just as the other animals do." After this, 
which is quoted word for word, he again continues in the same 
spirit as follows: "With a view to the permanence of the race, 
he has implanted in males a strong and ardent desire which 
neither law nor custom nor any other restraint is able to 
destroy. For it is God's decree." 

And how can this man still be reckoned among our number 
when he openly abolishes both law and gospel by these words. 
The one says: "Thou shalt not commit adultery." 16 The other 
says: "Everyone who looks lustfully has already committed 
adultery." 17 The saying in the law, "Thou shalt not covet," 18 
shows that one God is proclaimed by law, prophets, and gospel; 
for it says: "Thou shalt not covet thy neighbour's wife." But for 
a Jew the "neighbour" is not a Jew, for he is a brother and has 
the same spirit. Therefore it remains that "neighbour" means one 
of another race. But how can he not be a neighbour who is able 
to share in the same spirit? For Abraham is father not only of the 
Hebrews, but also of the Gentiles. 19 

9. If the adulteress and he who committed fornication with 
her are punished with death, 20 clearly the command which says 
"Thou shalt not covet thy neighbour's wife" speaks of the Gen- 
tiles, in order that anyone who, as the law directs, abstains from 
his neighbour's wife and from his sister may hear clearly from 
the Lord, "But I say unto you, Thou shalt not lust." The addi- 
tion of the word "I," however, shows the stricter force of the 
commandment, and that Carpocrates fights against God, and 
Epiphanes likewise. The latter in the same notorious book, I 
mean Concerning Righteousness, writes in one passage as follows: 
"Consequently one must understand the saying c Thou shalt not 
covet' as if the lawgiver was making a jest, to which he added 
the even more comic words 'thy neighbour's goods'. For he 
himself who gave the desire to sustain the race orders that it is 
to be suppressed, though he removes it from no other animals. 
And by the words c thy neighbour's wife' he says something even 
more ludicrous, since he forces what should be common 
property to be treated as a private possession." 

16 Exod. 20:14. 17 Matt 5:28. i Exod. 20:17. 

w Cf. Rom. 4:16 fl; Gen. 17:5. 20 Cf. Lev. 20:10 Deut. 22:22. 



ON MARRIAGE 45 

10. These then are the doctrines of the excellent Carpo- 
cratians. These, so they say, and certain other enthusiasts for 
the same wickednesses, gather together for feasts (I would not 
call their meeting an Agape), men and women together* After 
they have sated their appetites (" on repletion Cypris, the goddess 
of love, enters," 21 as it is said), then they overturn the lamps and 
so extinguish the light that the shame of their adulterous 
"righteousness" is hidden, and they have intercourse where they 
will and with whom they will. 23 After they have practised com- 
munity of use in this love-feast, they demand by daylight of 
whatever women they wish that they will be obedient to the law 
of Carpocrates it would not be right to say the law of God. 
Such, I think, is the law that Carpocrates must have given for 
the copulations of dogs and pigs and goats. He seems to me to 
have misunderstood the saying of Plato in the Republic 24 that the 
women of all are to be common. Plato means that the unmar- 
ried are common for those who wish to ask them, as also the 
theatre is open to the public for all who wish to see, but that 
when each one has chosen his wife, then the married woman is 
no longer common to all. 

11. In his book entitled Magica Xanthus says: "The Magi 
think it permissible to have sexual intercourse with mothers and 
daughters and sisters, and that wives are to be held in common, 
not by force and in secret, but both parties may agree when one 
man wishes to marry another's wife." 25 Of these and other 
similar sects Jude, I think, spoke prophetically in his letter 
"In the same way also these dreamers" (for they do not seek to 
find the truth in the light of day) as far as the words "and their 
mouth speak? arrogant things." 26 

CHAPTER III 

12. If Plato himself and the Pythagoreans, as indeed later also 
the followers of Marcion, 27 regard birth as something evil 

21 Euripides, frag, inc., 895. 

23 Cf. Origen, contra Celsum, VI, 40, and note thereon in my translation, 

24 Rep., 457 D, similarly interpreted by Epictetus, 2, 4:8-10. (Cf, also 
Epictetus, frag. 15, Schenkl.) 

25 Xanthus of Lydia,/r^. 28, Muller (F.H.G., I, p. 43). On his work see J. 
Bidez and F. Gumont, Les Mages hellenisti (1938), I, p. 5 ff.; II, p. 82, n. i. 

2<s Jude 8-1 6. 

27 G A. von Harnack, Martian* (1924), pp. 273*-*77*.FortheMarcionite 

view of marriage cf. Origen, in I Cor., VII, 7:18-20 (J.T".5., IX (1908), 

PP. 503> 507). 



46 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

(though the last named was far from thinking that wives were 
to be held in common), yet by the Marcionites nature is re- 
garded as evil because it was created out of evil matter and by 
a just Creator. On this ground, that they do not wish to fill the 
world made by the Creator-God, they decide to abstain from 
marriage. Thus they are in opposition to their Maker and hasten 
towards him who is called the good God, but not to the God, as 
they say, of the other kind. As they wish to leave nothing of 
their own behind them on this earth, they are continent, not of 
their own free choice, but from hatred of the Creator, being un- 
willing to use what he has made. But these folk, who in their 
blasphemous fight against God have abandoned natural reason- 
ing, and despise the long-suffering and goodness of God, even if 
they do not wish to marry, use the food made by the Creator 
and breathe his air; for they are his works and dwell in his 
world. 28 They say they have received the gospel of the know- 
ledge of the Strange God; 29 yet at least they ought to acknow- 
ledge gratitude to the Lord of the world because they receive 
this gospel on this earth. 

13. But we shall give a detailed answer to these people when 
we discuss the doctrine of First Principles. 30 

The philosophers whom we have mentioned, from whom the 
Marcionites blasphemously derived their doctrine that birth is 
evil, on which they then plumed themselves as if it were their 
own idea, do not hold that it is evil by nature, but only for the 
soul which has perceived the truth. For they think the soul is 
divine and has come down here to this world as a place of 
punishment. In their view souls which have become embodied 
need to be purified. But this doctrine is not that of the Marcion- 
ites, but of those who believe that the souls are enclosed in 
bodies and change from this prison and undergo transmigra- 
tion. There will be an opportunity to reply to these when we 
come to speak about the soul. 31 

14. It is clear that Heraclitus regards birth as something evil 
when he says: "When men are born they are fain to live and 
suffer death," or rather go to their rest, "and they leave children 

28 Clement adapts a pagan argument against the Christian refusal to wor- 
ship pagan deities; cf. Celsus as quoted by Origen, contra Celsum, VIII, 28. 

29 Cf. Celsus in Origen, contra Celsum, VI, 53. 

30 Cf. Strom., Ill, 21; IV, 2, 16; V, 140; VI, 4; Quis dives, 26:8. Stahlin 
(introduction to his translation, p. 40) rightly observes that this was not a 
special work, but an intended section of the Miscellanies. The extant 
books do not contain this section. 3i Cf. Strom., II, 1 13; V, 88. 



ON MARRIAGE 47 

who also suffer death." 32 Empedocles is obviously in agreement 
with him when he says: 

"When I saw the place, so strange it was, I wept and 
wailed. 35 

And further: 

"For out of the living he made the dead, changing their 
forms." 

And again; 

"O woe, unhappy race of mortals, wretched men! 
Out of what kind of dissensions and groans were you 
born!" 33 

And the Sibyl also says: 

"Mortal men are ye, and fleshly, being nothing," 34 
like the poet who writes: 

"Earth nurtures nothing weaker than a man." 35 

15. Moreover Theognis shows that birth is evil when he 
speaks as follows: 

"For mortals best it is not to be born at all 
And never to see the rays of the bright sun, 
But if born to pass the gates of Hades as soon as possible." 36 

With this agrees also the tragic poet Euripides when he writes: 

"When a man is born we ought to assemble only to bewail 
His lot in coming into so much evil. 
But when one dies and comes to the end of troubles 
Then we should rejoice and praise his happy departure." 37 

And again he says the same in these words: 

"Who knows if life be not in truth but death 
And death be life." 38 

1 6. Herodotus, it is clear, makes Solon say the same as this: 
"O Croesus, every man is a misfortune." 39 And his myth about 

32 Heraclitus,/ra. 20, Diels. * 3 Empedocles, frags. 118, 125, 124, Diels. 

34 Orac. Sib. frag. 1:1 (=Theophilus of Antioch, ad Autolycum, 2:36). 

35 Homer, Odyssey, 18:130. 36 Theognis, 425-427. 

37 Euripides, Cresphontes,frag. 449. 38 Euripides, Polyido$ 9 frag. 638. 
39 Herodotus, 1:32. 



48 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

Cleobis and Biton 40 has obviously no other intention than to dis- 
parage birth and praise death. "As scattered leaves, so is man- 
kind," says Homer. 41 And in the Cratylus Plato attributes to 
Orpheus the doctrine that the soul in this body is suffering 
punishment. This is what he says: "Some say that the body is a 
tomb of the soul, as being buried in it for the present life. And 
because the soul expresses (semainei} by this body whatever it 
may wish to express, so it is rightly called a tomb (sema) . The 
Orphics, in particular, seem to have given it this name, as they 
think the soul suffers punishment for its misdeeds." 42 

17. It is also worth mentioning the remark of Philolaus. This 
Pythagorean speaks as follows: "The ancient theologians and 
seers testify that the soul is conjoined to the body to suffer cer- 
tain punishments, and is, as it were, buried in this tomb." 43 
And Pindar speaks of the Eleusinian mysteries as follows: 
"Blessed is he who has seen before he goes under the earth; for 
he knows the end of life and knows also its divine beginning. 44 
Similarly in the Phaedo Plato does not hesitate to write as 
follows: "And these men who established our mysteries . . ." 
down to the words "and will dwell with the gods." And what 
when he says, "As long as we have still the body and our soul is 
involved in such evil, shall we never have sufficient possession 
of that which we desire?" 45 Does he not hint that birth is the 
cause of the worst evils? And in the Phaedo he bears witness 
again: "All who have rightly been concerned with philosophy 
run the risk that other men will fail to notice that their sole 
object is to pursue death and dying." 46 

18. And in another place: "Accordingly here the soul of the 
philosopher mostly disregards his body and flees from it, and 
seeks to be existent by itself." 47 Does he not agree to some ex- 
tent with the divine apostle when he says, "O wretched man 
that I am, who shall deliver me from this body of death?" 48 un- 
less he speaks of "body of death" in a figurative sense to refer to 
the agreement of those who have been enticed into evil. And 
that sexual intercourse, as the cause of birth, was rejected long 
before Marcion by Plato is clear from the first book of the 
Republic. For after praising old age he continues: "Mark it well, 
for me the more the other pleasures of the body fade away, the 

40 Herodotus 1:31; cf. Plutarch, Solon, 27; Mor., 58 E. 

41 Iliad, 6:146. 42 pi a to, Crat., 400 BG. 
43 Frag. 14, Diels. 44 Frag, isya, Schroder. 
45 Plato Phaedo, 69 C; 66 B. 46 Phaedo, 64 A. 

47 Ibid., 65 CD. 48 Rom. 7:24. 



ON MARRIAGE 49 

more grow the desires and pleasures of rational enquiry." 
And with reference to sex relations: "Be silent) O man, it is with 
the greatest joy that I escaped from it as if I had escaped from 
a wild and raging tyrant. 5 ' 49 

19. Again in the Phaedo he disparages birth when he writes of 
"the doctrine which is secretly taught about this that we men 
are in a sort of prison." And again, "Those who are manifestly 
distinguished for their holiness of life are liberated from these 
places on earth and are set free as if this earth were a prison, and 
go to the pure home above." Nevertheless, although he says 
this, he perceives that the administration of this world is good, 
and says: "One ought not to set oneself free and run away." 50 
And to sum up briefly, he has given Marcion no opening for his 
view that matter is evil, when he himself reverently says of the 
world, "All that is good the world has received from him who 
has composed it; but from its previous state arise all the recal- 
citrant and unjust things in the heaven and from this it derives 
these elements and causes them in living beings." 

20. With even greater clarity he adds: "The cause of these 
things was the material element in the world's constitution, 
which was at one time bound up with its ancient nature. For 
before it came into its present ordered state it was in a condition 
of great chaos." 51 To the same effect in the Laws he laments the 
race of men saying: "The gods had mercy on mankind which 
was born for trouble, and to give them rest from their labours 
appointed the changing cycle of feasts." 52 And in the Epinomis 
he discusses the causes of this pitiful condition and says this: 
"From the beginning birth was difficult for every human being; 
first to get to the state of being an embryo, then to be born, and 
then to be nourished and educated, all this is attended by count- 
less pains, as we all agree." 53 

21. What then? Does not Heraclitus call birth death, just as 
Pythagoras and Socrates in the Gorgias, 5 * when he says: "Death 
is what we see when we are awake; and what we see in our sleep 
is a dream." 55 

But enough of this. When we discuss First Principles 56 we 
shall consider the difference between the views of the philo- 
sophers and those of the Marcionites. But I think I have shown 
clearly enough that Marcion took from Plato the starting-point 

4* Rep., 328 D, 329 C. 50 Phaedo, 62 B, 114 BG. 

5i Plato, Polit. y 273 BG. 52 laws, 653 CD. 

53 Epinomis, 973 D. 54 Plato, Gorg. y 492 E. 

55 Heraclitus, frag, 21, Diels. 56 C Strom,, III, 13, above. 

A.C. 4 



50 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

of his "strange" 57 doctrines, without either grateful acknow- 
ledgment or understanding. 

22. Now we may continue our discussion about continence. 
We were saying that from a dislike of its inconveniences the 
Greeks have made many adverse observations about the birth 
of children, and that the Marcionites have interpreted them 
in a godless sense and are ungrateful to their Creator. For the 
tragedy says: 

"For mortals it is better not to be born than to be born; 
Children I bring to birth with bitter pains; 
And then when I have borne them they lack under- 
standing. 

In vain I groan, that I must look on wicked offspring 
While I lose the good. If the good survive, 
My wretched heart is melted by alarm. 
What is this goodness then? Is it not enough 
That I should care for one alone 
And bear the pain for this one soul?" 58 

And further to the same effect 

"So now I think and have long so thought 
Man ought never children to beget, 
Seeing into what agonies we are born." 59 

But in the following verses he clearly attributes the cause of 
evil to the primal origins, when he speaks as follows: 

"O thou who art born for misfortune and disaster, thou art 
born a man, and thine unhappy life thou didst receive from the 
place where the air of heaven, which gives breath to mortals, 
first began to give food for all. Complain not of thy mortal 
state, thou who art mortal." 60 

23. Again he puts the same idea in these words: 

"No mortal is content and happy 
Nor is any born free from sorrow." 61 

57 Marcion's good God was called by him the "Stranger. 5 * 

5S Euripides, frag. inc. y 908. 

5 9 Tragicorum Graecorum Fragmsnta, ed. Nauck, Adesp., in. 

^o Ibid., Adesp., 112 (probably Euripides). 

1 Euripides, Iphigeneia in Aulis, 161-163. 



ON MARRIAGE 51 

And then again: 

"Alas, alas, how many are the chances of mortal calamity! 
How many forms it takes! None can tell the end," 62 

And further likewise: 

" Of what is mortal there is nothing which is happy without 
end."" 

24. It is asserted that on this ground the Pythagoreans exer- 
cised abstinence. But to me, on the contrary, it seems that they 
marry for the sake of procreating children, but after they have 
begotten children they desire to control sexual indulgence. That 
is why they give the mysterious command to abstain from beans, 
not because pulse leads to flatulence and is indigestible and 
causes troubled dreams, 64 nor because the bean is shaped like 
a man's head; as the verse has it, "It is alike to eat beans and the 
head of one's parents. 5 ' 65 The real reason is that if beans are 
eaten they make women barren. At any rate Theophrastus in 
the fifth book of his Causes of Plants 6 * relates that if the pods of 
beans are put round the roots of newly planted trees the shoots 
dry up and that if birds that live round houses are continuously 
fed on beans they become unable to lay eggs. 

CHAPTER IV 

25. Of the heretics we mentioned Marcion of Pontus as for- 
bidding the use of this world's goods on the ground of opposi- 
tion to the Creator. The Creator himself is thus the reason for 
his continence, if this can be called continence; for this giant 
who thinks he can resist God is not continent by an act of free 
choice, in that he attacks the creation and the process by which 
man is formed. If they quote the Lord's words to Philip, "Let 
the dead bury their dead, but do thou follow me/' 67 they ought 
to consider that Philip's flesh is also formed in the same way; 
his body is not a polluted corpse. How then could he have a 
body of flesh which is not a corpse? Because he rose from the tomb 

62 Euripides, Antiope, frag. 211. 63 Euripides, Hiketides, 269 f. 

64 Cf. Plutarch, Mor., 286 DE. 

65 Cf. Mullach, Fragmenta Philos. Graec^ I, 200. 

66 Theophrastus, de Caus. Plant. 3 V, 15:1. Clement draws this section, with 
the quotation from Theophrastus, from Apollonius, Mirabilia, 46. 

67 Matt. 8:22; Luke 9:60 (not ascribed to Philip). 



2 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

when the Lord killed his passions, and he began to live unto 
Christ. We also mentioned the blasphemous immorality of 
Carpocrates. But when we spoke about the saying of Nicolaus 68 
we omitted to say this. Nicolaus, they say, had a lovely wife. 
When after the Saviour's ascension he was accused before the 
apostles of jealousy, he brought his wife into the concourse and 
allowed anyone who so desired to marry her. For, they say, this 
action was appropriate to the saying: "One must abuse the 
flesh. 55 Those who share his heresy follow both his action and his 
words simply and without qualification by indulging in the 
gravest enormity. 

26. I am informed, however, that Nicolaus never had rela- 
tions with any woman other than the wife he married, and that 
of his children his daughters remained virgins to their old age, 
and his son remained uncorrupted. In view of this it was an act 
of suppression of passion when he brought before the apostles 
the wife on whose account he was jealous. He taught what it 
meant to "abuse the flesh" by restraining the distracting pas- 
sions. For, as the Lord commanded, 69 he did not wish to serve 
two masters, pleasure and God. It is said that Matthias also 
taught that one should fight the flesh and abuse it, never allow- 
ing it to give way to licentious pleasure, so that the soul might 
grow by faith and knowledge. 70 

27. There are some who call Aphrodite Pandemos 11 [i.e., 
physical love] a mystical communion. This is an insult to the 
name of communion. To do something wrong is called an 
action, just as also to do right is likewise called an action. 
Similarly communion is good when the word refers to sharing 
of money and food and clothing. But they have impiously called 
by the name of communion any common sexual intercourse. 
The story goes that one of them came to a virgin of our church 
who had a lovely face and said to her: "Scripture says, 'Give to 
every one that asks you/ 5 * 72 She, however, not understanding 
the lascivious intention of the man gave the dignified reply: "On 
the subject of marriage, talk to my mother." What godlessness! 
Even the words of the Lord are perverted by these immoral 

Strom., II, 118. 69 Matt. 6:24; Luke 16:13. 

70 Evidently from the Traditions of Matthias (cf. Strom., VII, 82), a work cur- 
rent among the followers of Basilides (Hippolytus, Refut., VII> 20:1). 
See M. R. James, Apocryphal New Testament, p. 12 f. It appears that a 
Coptic version of this lost work has been found in the gnostic library dis- 
covered recently at Nag-Hammadi. Cf. H. C. Puech, in Coptic Studies in 
honor ofW. E. Crim (1950), p. 120. 

71 Plato, Symposium, 180 E ff. 72 Luke 6:30; Matt- 5:42. 



ON MARRIAGE 53 

fellows, the brethren of lust, a shame not only to philosophy but 
to all human life, who corrupt the truth, or rather destroy it, as 
far as they can. These thrice wretched men treat carnal and 
sexual intercourse as a sacred religious mystery, and think that 
it will bring them to the kingdom of God. 

28. It is to the brothels that this "communion" leads. They 
can have pigs and goats as their associates. Those who have 
most to hope from them are the public harlots who shamelessly 
receive all who want to come to them. "But you have not so 
learned Christ, if you have heard him and have been taught by 
him as the truth is in Christ Jesus; put off with the ways of your 
former life your old man which is corrupted by the deceitful 
lusts. Be renewed in the spirit of your mind and put on the new 
man which after God is created in righteousness and true holi- 
ness/' so as to be made like unto God. "Be therefore imitators of 
God, as dear children, and walk in love as Christ also loved us 
and gave himself for us as an offering and sacrifice to God for a 
sweet smelling savour. But fornication and all impurity and 
covetousness and shamefulness and foolish talk, let them not 
be mentioned among you as is fitting for saints." 73 Moreover, 
the apostle teaches us to be chaste in speech when he writes, 
"Know this well that no fornicator . . ." and so on as far as the 
words "but rather expose them." 74 

29. They derived their doctrines from an apocryphal work. 75 
I will quote the text which is the mother of their licentiousness. 
And whether they themselves, I mean the authors of the book, 
are responsible (see their madness, for by their licence they do 
grievous wrong to God) or whether they derived their ideas 
from some others whom they fell in with, they have taken a 
sound doctrine and perversely misapplied it. The passage reads 
as follows: "All things were one; but as it seemed good to its 
unity not to be alone, an idea came forth from it, and it had 
intercourse with it and made the beloved. In consequence of 
this there came forth from him an idea with which he had inter- 
course and made powers which cannot be seen or heard . . ." 
down to the words "each by her own name." 

If these people spoke of acts of spiritual union like the 
Valentinians, 76 perhaps one could accept their view. But to 
suppose that the holy prophets spoke of carnal and wanton 
intercourse is the way of a man who has renounced salvation. 

73 Eph. 4:20-24. 74 Eph. 5:1-4, 5-1 1. 

75 The work is lost except for this quotation. 

76 See Introduction, p. 3 1 . 



54 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

30. These are also the doctrines of the adherents of Prodl- 
cus, 77 who falsely entitle themselves gnostics, asserting that they 
are by nature sons of the first God. But they misuse their noble 
birth and freedom and life as they desire. And their desire is for 
pleasure, thinking that no one is superior to them, as they are 
lords of the sabbath and are royal sons far above the rest of 
mankind. To a king, they say, there is no law prescribed. But 
in the first place they cannot do all they desire since there is 
much to prevent them 3 however much they desire and essay to 
do it. And even what they can do, they do not like kings, but 
like cringing slaves. For it is only in secret that they commit 
adultery, as they are scared of being caught. They want to 
avoid condemnation and are afraid of punishment. What free- 
dom is there in their licence and filthy talk? " Everyone who 
sins is a slave/' 78 says the apostle. 

31. The Lord has said: "But I say unto you 3 you shall not 
lust." 79 How then can he live according to God's will who sur- 
renders himself to every desire? And is a man to decide of his 
own free will that he can sin, and lay it down as a principle that 
one may commit adultery and revel in sin and break up other 
men's marriages, when we even take pity on others if they fall 
into sin against their will? And if they regard the world into 
which they have come as an alien country they will not possess 
the truth if they have not been faithful in that which is an- 
other's. 80 Does a foreign visitor insult the citizens and do them 
injury? Does he not rather behave as a guest 81 and conform to 
the necessary rules, living without causing offence to the 
citizens? And how can they say that they alone know God when 
they do the same things as those who are loathed by the 
heathen because they do not do what the laws direct, that is, as 
the wicked and incontinent and covetous and adulterous? They 
ought to live good lives even while they are dwelling in an alien 
country, to manifest their truly kingly nature. 

32. But because they have chosen to disobey the laws, they 
make themselves objects of hatred both to human lawgivers and 
to the law of God. At any rate in Numbers the man who thrust 
his spear into the fornicator is evidently blessed by God. 82 And 
John says In his epistle: "If we say that we have fellowship with 
him and walk in darkness, we lie and do not the truth; but if we 
walk in the light as he is in the light, we have fellowship with 
him, and the blood of Jesus his Son cleanses us from sin." 83 

ri See Introduction, p. 30. 78 John 8:34; c ** R m - 6:16. ^ Matt. 5:28. 
so Cf. Luke 16:12. si Of. I Peter 2:11. ** Num. 25:8. " J John i :6 



ON MARRIAGE 55 

33. How then are they who do these things superior to 
worldly men when they behave like the very worst men of this 
world? Those whose actions are alike are in my opinion of like 
nature. Those who think they are superior to others by their 
nobility of birth ought to be superior to them also in their moral 
characters, that they may escape incarceration in the prison. 84 
For indeed as the Lord said: "Except your righteousness exceed 
that of the scribes and Pharisees, you shall not enter the kingdom 
of God." 85 However, abstinence from food is exemplified in the 
book of Daniel. 86 And to sum up in a word, concerning obedi- 
ence David speaks in the Psalms: "How shall a young man cor- 
rect his way?" And at once he hears "by keeping thy word with 
his whole heart." 87 And Jeremiah says: "Thus saith the Lord, 
You shall not walk in the ways of the heathen." 88 

34. Because of this certain other depraved and worthless 
fellows have been impelled to assert that man was formed by 
various powers, and that down as far as the navel his body 
shows the work of godlike craftsmanship, but his lower parts 
indicate inferior workmanship. 89 In consequence of the latter 
man has a sexual impulse. They fail to observe that the upper 
parts also want food and in some men are lustful. And they 
contradict Christ when he said to the Pharisees that the same 
God made both our outer and our inner man. 90 Moreover, de- 
sire is not a bodily thing, though it occurs because of the body, 91 

Certain others, whom we may call Antitactae [i.e., opponents], 
assert that the God of the universe is our Father by nature, and 
all that he has made is good. But one of the beings made by him 
sowed tares and so caused the origin of evils. He involved us all 
in them and so made us opponents of the Father. Therefore 
even we ourselves are set in opposition to him to avenge the 
Father, and act contrary to the will of the second. Since, then, 
the latter has said, "Thou shalt not commit adultery," 92 let us, 
say they, commit adultery to abolish his commandment. 

35. JT o them we would say: We have been taught to recog- 
nize t>y their works false prophets and all who merely pretend 
to the truth. 93 And your works tell against you. How can you 
still assert that you adhere to the truth?; For either nothing evil 

84 Cf. I Peter 3:19. * Matt 5:20. ** Dan. 1:10. 

87 p s . 119: gf. 88 Jer. 10:2. 

fi 9 Epiphanius (Panar. kaer., 45:2) says this view was held by the Severiara. 
Even Basil of Ancyra (de Virginitate, 7, Migne, P,,, XXX, 684 A) sug- 
gests that God made man like a centaur, his upper parts rational, lower 
bestial. *> Luke 11:40. 

9i Plato, Phil, 35 C, 92 Ex. 20:14. w Cf. Matt. 7:16. 



56 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

exists, in which case there is no question of finding fault with 
him whom you attack as being in opposition to God, and he is 
not the originator of anything evil (both the fruit and the tree 
are done away together), or, if wickedness really does exist, let 
them tell us what they have to say of the commandments given 
to us about righteousness, self-control, patience, longsuffering, 
and other such virtues, whether they think them bad or good? 
If the command is bad which forbids one to do almost all that 
is disgraceful, then evil must enact laws against itself in order to 
destroy its own fruit, which is impossible. If it is good, by oppos- 
ing good commandments they must confess that they are 
opposing what is right and doing wrong. 

36. But the Saviour himself, whom alone they think one 
should obey, has forbidden hatred and reviling 94 and says: 
"When you go with your adversary to court, try to achieve a 
friendly reconciliation with him*" 95 Accordingly, they will 
either refuse to accept Christ's exhortation, in that they are in 
opposition to the adversary, or they will become his friends and 
cease to oppose him. What then? Do you not realize, my worthy 
friends (I speak as if you were present with me) that by conflict 
with these excellent commandments you fight against your own 
salvation? You overturn yourselves, not these beneficial instruc- 
tions. The Lord said, "JLet your good works shine out." 96 But 
you make your licentiousness manifest to all. Besides^ if your aim 
is to destroy the lawgiver's commands, why is it the commands 
"Thou shalt not commit adultery" and "Thou shalt not corrupt 
boys," 97 and all the commandments enjoining purity, which 
through your incontinence you seek to destroy? Why do you not 
abolish winter, which he made, and make it summer when it is 
still midwinter, and make dry land navigable and the sea pass- 
able on foot, 98 as the historians say Xerxes the barbarian desired 
to do? 99 

37. Why do you not oppose all the commandments? For he 
says, "Increase and multiply." 1 You who are opposed to him 
ought to abstain from sexual relations altogether. And if he 
says, "I have given you all things for food and enjoyment," 2 you 
ought to enjoy nothing at all. Moreover, he says, "An eye for 
an eye." 3 You ought not, therefore, to repay opposition with 

94 Cf. Matt 5:44. 95 Matt. 5:25. 96 Matt. 5:16. 

9-J Cf. Didache, 2:1; Ep. Barnab., 19:4. 
^s II Maccabees 5:21 (of Antiochus Epiphanes). 

99 Herodotus, 7:54. 1 Gen. 1:28; 9:1. 2 Gen. 1:29; 9:3. 

3 Ex. 21:24. 



ON MARRIAGE 57 

opposition. If he tells the thief to restore fourfold, 4 you ought 
even to give something to the thief. Similarly again, you who 
oppose the command "Thou shalt love the Lord" 5 ought not 
to love the God of the universe at all. And if he says, "Thou 
shalt not make any graven or molten image," 6 it follows that 
you ought to bow down to graven images. Are you not blas- 
phemous, therefore, whfen you oppose, as you say, the Creator, 
and endeavour to do the same as fornicators and adulterers? Do 
you not perceive that you make him all the greater whom you 
regard as weak if what is taking place is what he wishes and not 
what the good God wills? For, on the contrary, your father, as 
you call him, is shown to be weak by you yourselves. 

38. These folk also collect extracts from the prophets, making 
a selection and mischievously stringing them together. They 
interpret in a literal sense sayings intended to be understood 
allegorically. It is written, they say, "They resisted God and 
were saved." 7 But they add the "shameless" God, and interpret 
this saying as if it gave them advice, thinking it will bring them 
salvation if they resist the Creator. In fact, scripture does not 
mention the " shameless" God. And if it did, you fools, you 
should have understood the word "shameless" to refer to him 
who is called the devil, either because he slanders men, or be- 
cause he accuses sinners, or because he is an apostate. The people 
to whom the passage refers were unwilling to be punished for 
their sins, and they spoke the words quoted in a spirit of com- 
plaining and grumbling, on the ground that other nations were 
not punished when they transgressed, and that on every occasion 
they alone were humiliated, so that even Jeremiah said, "Why 
is the way of the ungodly easy?" 8 Similar in sense to this is the 
saying in Malachi which has been quoted: "They resisted God 
and were saved." In uttering their oracles the prophets do not 
only say that they have heard some message from God; it is also 
evident that they take up phrases in common use among the 
people and reply to them, as if they were reporting certain ques- 
tions raised by them. The saying under discussion is an instance 
of this. 

39. Perhaps it is such people that the apostle attacks in the 
epistle to the Romans when he writes: "And not as we are blas- 
phemously accused and some assert that we say, Let us do evil 
that good may come, an argument which is rightly con- 
demned." 9 These are they who when reading the Bible pervert 

* Ex. 22:1. 5 Deut. 6:5. 6 Deut. 27:15. 

7 Mai. 3:15. 8 Jen 12:1. 9 Rom. 3:8. 



58 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

the sense to their own desires by their tone of voice, and by 
changing certain accents and marks of punctuation 10 twist 
words that are wise and useful to conform to their own lusts. 
"You who provoke God with your words, 35 says Malachi, "have 
even said Wherein have we provoked him? In this, that you 
have said. Anyone who does evil is good in the Lord's sight, and 
he is well pleased with them; and, Where is the God of 
righteousness?" 11 

CHAPTER V 

40. It is not our aim to pursue this subject in further detail and 
to mention further senseless heresies. To put them to shame we 
should be forced to deal with each one, and to state our objec- 
tions to each point, which would extend these notes to an un- 
conscionable length. Accordingly we may divide all the heresies 
into two groups in making answer to them. Either they teach 
that one ought to live on the principle that it is a matter of in- 
difference whether one does right or wrong, or they set a too 
ascetic tone and proclaim the necessity of continence on the 
ground of opinions which are godless and arise from hatred of 
what God has created. First we may discuss the former group. 
If it is lawful to live any sort of life one likes, obviously one may 
live in continence; or if any kind of life has no dangers for the 
elect, obviously one of virtue and self-control is far less danger- 
ous* If the "lord of the sabbath" 12 has been given the right to 
pass uncorrected if he lives an immoral life, a fortiori there will 
be no correction for him who behaves decently. "All things are 
lawful, but all things are not expedient," 13 says the apostle. If 
all things are lawful, obviously this includes self-control. 

41. Therefore if one who uses his power to live a virtuous life 
receives praise, then much more worthy of reverence and honour 
is he who has given us this free and sovereign power and has 
allowed us to live as we choose, not allowing us to become en- 
slaved and subjected to necessity by our acts of choice and rejec- 
tion. But if both can have no anxiety, he who chooses incontin- 
ence and he who chooses abstinence, yet the honour is not equal. 
He who indulges his pleasures gratifies his body; but he who is 
controlled liberates from its passions his soul which is master of 
the body. And if they tell us that we are called to freedom, only 
let us not use our freedom as an opportunity for the flesh, as the 

1 For the accentuation of the scriptures cf, Epiphanius, de Mens. et Pond., 2. 
11 Mai, 2:17, 12 Matt. 12:8. Cf. Strom, III, 30 above. 1* I Cor. 6:12; 10:23. 



ON MARRIAGE 59 

apostle says. 14 If lust is to be gratified and a life of sin regarded 
as morally neutral, as they say, either we ought to indulge our 
desires in every direction and, if this is our desire, do the most 
lascivious and immoral acts, in that we are following our in- 
stincts in every way; or we may suppress certain desires and live 
no longer a life which recognizes no distinction of right and 
wrong, nor be absolute slaves to our most dishonourable mem- 
bers, the stomach and the private parts, gratifying our carcase 
for the sake of desire. For desire is nourished and invigorated if 
it is encouraged in indulgence, just as, on the other hand, it 
loses strength if it is kept in check. 

42. But how is it possible to become like the Lord and have 
knowledge of God if one is subject to physical pleasures? Every 
pleasure is the consequence of an appetite, and an appetite is 
a certain pain and anxiety, caused by need, which requires 
some object. 15 In my opinion those who choose this kind of life 
are simply "suffering pain to their shame," as the well-known 
verse puts it, 1 6 choosing evil which they bring upon themselves, 1 7 
now and hereafter. If, then, all things were lawful and one need 
have no fear that because of one's wicked deeds one's hope of 
salvation would be lost, perhaps they might have some excuse 
for living this wicked and wretched life. But through the com- 
mandments a life of blessedness is shown to us. We must all keep 
to them without misinterpreting any of the words or neglecting 
any of our duties, however minute. We must follow where the 
word leads; and if we depart from it, we must fall into "endless 
evil." 18 And by following the divine scripture, the path by 
which believers travel, we are to be made like unto the Lord as 
far as possible. We must not live as if there were no difference 
between right and wrong, but, to the best of our power, must 
purify ourselves from indulgence and lust and take care for our 
soul which must continually be devoted to the Deity alone. For 
when it is pure and set free from all evil the mind is somehow 
capable of receiving the power of God and the divine image is 
set up in it. "And everyone who has this hope in the Lord puri- 
fies himself," says the Scripture, "even as he is pure." 19 

43. To attain the knowledge of God is impossible for those 
who are still under the control of their passions. Therefore they 

n Cf. Gal. 5:13. 

is A traditional dictionary definition; cf. Andronicus, de affect., p. 124, 

Kreuttner. 

16 Hesiod, Works and Days, an. 17 Homer, Odyssey, 18:73- 

is Homer* Odyssey, 12:118, 19 I John 3:3. 



6o CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

cannot attain the salvation they hope for as they have not ob- 
tained any knowledge of God. He who fails to attain this end is 
clearly subject to the charge of being ignorant ^of God, and 
ignorance of God is shown by a man's manner of life. It is abso- 
lutely impossible at the same time to be a man of understanding 
and not to be ashamed to gratify the body. Nor can the view 
that pleasure is the supreme Good be reconciled with the view 
that only the beautiful is good, or that only the Lord is beau- 
tiful, and God alone is good and is alone to be loved. " You are 
circumcised in Christ with a circumcision not done with hands, 
which consists rather in the putting away of the carnal body, in 
the circumcision of Christ." "If you then are risen with Christ, 
seek those things which are above; have in mind higher things, not 
earthly things. For you are dead, and your life is hid with Christ 
in God" but not the fornication which they practise. "Mortify 
therefore your earthly members, fornication, uncleanness, pas- 
sion, lust; for on account of these wrath is coming." Let them 
also therefore "put away anger, wrath, wickedness, blasphemy, 
filthy talk from their mouth, putting off the old man with 
its lusts, and putting on the new man which is renewed to 
possess full knowledge according to the image of him who 
created it." 20 

44. It is the manner of life which shows up those who know 
the commandments; for as a man's word is, so is his life. The 
tree is known by its fruit, 21 not by its blossom and leaves. Know- 
ledge, then, comes from the fruit and from behaviour, not from 
talk and from blossom. We say that knowledge is not mere talk, 
but a certain divine knowledge, that light which is kindled in 
the soul as a result of obedience to the commandments, and 
which reveals all that is in a state of becoming, enables man to 
know himself and teaches him to become possessed of God. 
What the eye is in the body, knowledge is in the mind. 22 Let 
them not call bondage to pleasure freedom, as if bitterness were 
sweet. We have learnt to recognize as freedom that which the 
Lord alone confers on us when he liberates us from lusts and 
desires and the other passions. "He who says, I know the Lord, 
and does not keep his commandments, is a liar and the truth is 
not in him," says John. 23 

20 Col. 2:11; 3:1-3, 5-6, 8-10. 21 Matt. 7:16. 

22 Gf. Aristotle, Nicomachean Ethics, 1 14. (logGb, 29) "As sight is in the body, 
so mind is in the soul." Cf. Aristotle, Top., 1:18 (io8a, n); Celsus in 
Origen, contra Celsum, VII, 45. 

23 I John 2:4. 



ON MARRIAGE 6l 

CHAPTER VI 

45. To those, on the other hand, who under a pious cloak blas- 
pheme by their continence both the creation and the holy 
Creator, the almighty, only God, and teach that one must reject 
marriage and begetting of children, and should not bring others 
in their place to live in this wretched world, nor give any sus- 
tenance to death, our reply is as follows. We may first quote the 
word of the apostle John: "And now are many antichrists come, 
whence we know that it is the last hour. They went out from us, 
but they were not of us. For if they had been of us, they would 
have remained with us." 24 Next we may destroy their case on 
the ground that they pervert the sense of the books they quote, 
as follows. When Salome asked the Lord: "How long shall death 
hold sway?" he answered: "As long as you women bear chil- 
dren." 25 Her words do not imply that this life is evil and the 
creation bad, and his reply only teaches the ordinary course of 
nature.. For birth is invariably followed by death. 26 

46. The task of the law is to deliver us from a dissolute life 
and all disorderly ways. Its purpose is to lead us from unright- 
eousness to righteousness, so that it would have us self-con- 
trolled in marriage, in begetting children, and in general be- 
haviour. The Lord is not "come to destroy the law but to fulfil 
it." 27 . "To fulfil" does not imply that it was defective, but that 
by his coming the prophecies of the law are accomplished, since 
before the law the demand for right conduct was proclaimed by 
the Logos to those also who lived good lives. The multitude who 
know nothing of continence live for the body, not for the spirit. 
But the body without spirit is "earth and ashes." 28 Now the 
Lord judges adultery which is only committed in thought. 29 
What then? Is it not possible to remain continent even in the 
married state and not to seek to "put asunder what God has 
joined together"? 30 For such is the teaching of those who divide 
the yoke of marriage, by reason of whom the Christian name is 
blasphemed. If it is the view of these people who themselves 
owe their existence to sexual relations that such relations are 

241 John 2:18 f. 

25 Cf. Strom., Ill, 63 f., 66, 92; Exc. Theod., 67. Clement quotes the Gospel 
according to the Egyptians, for which cf. M. R. James, Apocryphal New 
Testament, p. i o f. 

26 For this commonplace cf. Strom., Ill, 64,, below, and my note on Origen, 
contra Celsum, III, 43. 2? Matt. 5:17, 28 Gen. 18:27. 

29 Matt. 5:28. 3 Matt. 19:6. 



62 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

impure, must not they be impure? But I hold that even the seed 
of the sanctified is holy. 

47. In us it is not only the spirit which ought to be sanctified, 
but also our behaviour, manner of life, and our body. What does 
the apostle Paul mean when he says that the wife is sanctified by 
the husband and the husband by the wife? 31 And what is the 
meaning of the Lord's words to those who asked concerning 
divorce whether it is lawful to put away one's wife as Moses 
commanded? "Because of the hardness of your hearts," he says, 
"Moses wrote this; but have you not read that God said to the 
first man, You two shall be one flesh? Therefore he who divorces 
his wife except for fornication makes her an adulteress." 32 But 
"after the resurrection," he says, "they neither marry nor are 
given in marriage." 33 Moreover, concerning the belly and itsfood 
it is written: "Food is for the belly and the belly for food; but God 
shall destroy both the one and the other." 34 In this saying he 
attacks those who think they can live like wild pigs and goats, lest 
they should indulge their physical appetites without restraint. 

48. If, as they say, they have already attained the state of 
resurrection, 35 and on this account reject marriage let them 
neither eat nor drink. For the apostle says that in the resurrec- 
tion the belly and food shall be destroyed. Why then do they 
hunger and thirst and suffer the weaknesses of the flesh and all 
the other needs which will not affect the man who through 
Christ has attained to the hoped for resurrection? Furthermore 
those who worship idols abstain both from food and from sexual 
intercourse. 36 "But the kingdom of God does not consist in eat- 
ing and drinking," 37 he says. And indeed the Magi make a 
point of abstaining from wine and the meat of animals and from 
sexual intercourse while they are worshipping angels and 
daemons. 38 But just as humility consists in meekness and not in 
treating one's body roughly, so also continence is a virtue of the 
soul which is not manifest to others, but is in secret. 

49. There are some who say outright that marriage is forni- 
cation and teach that it was introduced by the devil. 39 They 

3i I Cor. 7:14. 32 Matt. 19:3-9. 33 Matt. 22:30. 

34 I Cor. 6:13. 35 Cf. Introduction, p. 34. 

36 Cf. Origen, in I Cor., VII, 5 (Journ. TheoL St., IX (1908), 501-502): "If 
pagans sometimes abstain from sexual relations for the worship of idols, 
how much more should you do so who pray to the supreme God!" 

37 Rom. 14:17. 

38 Cf. Porphyry s On Abstinence, IV, 16, copied without acknowledgment by 
Jerome, c. Jovin., II, 14. 

3* Clement is probably thinking of Tatian; cf. Ill, 81-82, 89, below. 



ON MARRIAGE 63 

proudly say that they are imitating the Lord who neither mar- 
ried nor had any possession in this world, boasting that they 
understand the gospel better than anyone else. The Scripture 
says to them: "God resists the proud but gives grace to the 
humble." 40 Further, they do not know the reason why the Lord 
did not marry. In the first place he had his own bride, the 
Church; and in the next place he was no ordinary man that he 
should also be in need of some helpmeet 41 after the flesh. Nor 
was it necessary for him to beget children since he abides eter- 
nally and was born the only Son of God. It is the Lord himself 
who says: "That which God has joined together, let no man put 
asunder." 42 And again: "As it was in the days of Noah, they 
were marrying, and giving in marriage, building and planting, 
and as it was in the days of Lot, so shall be the coming of the Son 
of man." 43 And to show that he is not referring to the heathen he 
adds: "When the Son of man is come, shall he find faith on the 
earth?" 44 And again: "Woe to those who are with child and are 
giving suck in those days," 45 a saying, I admit, to be understood 
allegorically. The reason why he did not determine "the times 
which the Father has appointed by his own power" 46 was that 
the world might continue from generation to generation. 

50. Concerning the words, "Not all can receive this saying. 
There are some eunuchs who were born so, and some who were 
made eunuchs by men, and some who have made themselves 
eunuchs for the sake of the kingdom of heaven; let him receive 
it who can receive it," 47 they do not realize the context. After 
his word about divorce some asked him whether, if that is the 
position in relation to woman, it is better not to marry; and it 
was then that the Lord said: "Not all can receive this saying, 
but those to whom it is granted." What the questioners wanted 
to know was whether, when a man's wife has been condemned 
for fornication, it is allowable for him to marry another. 

It is said, however, that several athletes abstained from sexual 
intercourse, exercising continence to keep their bodies in train- 
ing, as Astylos of Croton and Crison of Himera. 45 Even the 
cithara-player, Amoebeus, though newly married, kept away 
from his bride. 49 And Aristotle of Gyrene was the only man to 
disdain the love of Lais when she fell for hinu 

40 James 4:6,' I Peter 5:5. Gen. 2:18. 4 Matt. 19:6. 

43 Matt. 24:37-39. 44 Luke 18:8. 4 * MatL 24:19. 

46 Acts 1:7. 47 Matt. 19:11 

4& Plato, Lawsy 840 A, and the scholiast thereon. 

4 $> The same story in Aelian, Nat. Anim., 6:1; Var. Hist*} 3:30, 



64 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

51. As he had sworn to the courtesan that he would take her 
to his home country if she rendered him some assistance against 
his antagonists, when she had rendered it, he kept his oath in an 
amusing manner by painting the closest possible likeness of her 
and setting it up in Gyrene. The story is told by Istros in his 
book on The Peculiarity of Athletic Contests. 50 Therefore there is 
nothing meritorious about abstinence from marriage unless it 
arises from love to God. At any rate the blessed Paul says of 
those who revile marriage: "In the last times some shall depart 
from the faith, turning to spirits of error and doctrines inspired 
by daemons, forbidding to marry and commanding abstinence 
from food." 51 And again he says: "Let no one disqualify you by 
demanding self-imposed ascetic practices and severe treatment 
of the body." 52 And the same writer has this also: "Are you 
bound to a wife? Do not seek to be separated from her? Are you 
free from any wife? Do not seek to find one." And again: "Let 
every man have his own wife lest Satan tempt you. 5 ' 53 

52. How then? Did not the righteous in ancient times partake 
of what God made with thanksgiving? Some begat children and 
lived chastely in the married state. To Elijah the ravens brought 
bread and meat for food. 54 And Samuel the prophet brought as 
food for Saul the remnant of the thigh, of which he had already 
eaten. 55 But whereas they say that they are superior to them in 
behaviour and conduct, they cannot even be compared with 
them in their deeds. "He who does not eat," then, "let him not 
despise him who eats; and he who eats let him not judge him who 
does not eat; for God has accepted him." 56 Moreover, the Lord 
says of himself: "John came neither eating nor drinking, and 
they say. He has a devil. The Son of man came eating and 
drinking and they say, Behold a gluttonous man and a wine- 
bibber, a friend of publicans and a sinner." 57 

Or do they also scorn the apostles? Peter and Philip had 
children, and Philip gave his daughters in marriage. 

53. Even Paul did not hesitate in one letter to address his 
consort. 58 The only reason why he did not take her about with 
him was that it would have been an inconvenience for his 

50 Istros, frag. 48, Miiller (F.H.G., I, 424). Aelian, Var. Hist., 10:2, tells a 

similar story of Eubotas. 

si I Tim. 4:1, 3, 52 Col. 2:18, 23. 53 I Con 7:27, 2 , 5. 

54 I Kings 17:6. 55 I Sam. 9:24. 56 Rom. 14:3. 

57 Matt. n:i8f. 

58 Clement so understands Phil. 4:3: "I beseech thee also, true yokefellow, 
help these women . . ." (R.V.). 



ON MARRIAGE 65 

ministry. Accordingly he says in a letter: "Have we not a right 
to take about with us a wife that is a sister like the other 
apostles?" 59 But the latter, in accordance with their particular 
ministry, devoted themselves to preaching without any distrac- 
tion, and took their wives with them not as women with whom 
they had marriage relations, but as sisters, that they might be 
their fellow-ministers in dealing with housewives. It was through 
them that the Lord's teaching penetrated also the women's 
quarters without any scandal being aroused. We also know the 
directions about women deacons which are given by the noble 
Paul in his second letter to Timothy. 60 Furthermore, the self- 
same man cried aloud that "the kingdom of God does not con- 
sist in food and drink, 53 not indeed in abstinence from wine and 
meat, "but in righteousness, peace, and joy in the Holy Spirit." 61 
Which of them goes about like Elijah clad in a sheepskin and a 
leather girdle? Which of them goes about like Isaiah, naked ex- 
cept for a piece of sacking and without shoes? Or clothed merely 
in a linen loincloth like Jeremiah? 62 Which of them will imitate 
John's gnostic way of life? The blessed prophets also lived in this 
manner and were thankful to the Creator. 

54.. The "righteousness" of Carpocrates, however, and those 
like him who pursue immoral "communion 53 is to be refuted by 
an argument along the following lines. Immediately after the 
words "Give to him that asks you," he continues: "And do not 
turn away from him who wishes to borrow." 63 Thus it is this 
kind of communion which he is teaching, not the immoral kind. 
How can there be one who asks and receives and borrows unless 
there is someone who possesses and gives and lends? What, then, 
is the position when the Lord says, "I was hungry and you fed 
me, I was thirsty and you gave me drink, I was a stranger and 
you took me in, naked and you clothed me," after which he 
adds "inasmuch as you did it to one of these little ones, you did 
it to me"? 64 And does he not lay down the same principle in the 
Old Testament? "He who gives to the poor lends to God," and 
"Do not avoid giving to the needy," 65 he says. 

55. And again: "Let not your almsgiving and faithfulness 
lapse." And: "Poverty brings a man low, but the hands of the 
energetic are made rich." And he adds: "Behold the man who 
has not given his money on usury is accepted." And does he not 

59 I Cor. 9:5. <N I Tim. 5:9 f. Rom. 14:17* 

" I Kings 19:13; II Kings 1:8; Isa. 20:2; Jer. 13:1. 
<*3 Matt. 5:42; cf. Strom.) Ill, 27, above. 

64 Matt. 25:35 f., 40; cf. Quis dives, 13:30. & Prov. 19:17; 3:27. 

A.C. 5 



66 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

declare expressly, "A man's wealth is judged to be his soul's ran- 
som"? 66 Just as the world is composed of opposites, of heat and 
cold, dry and wet, so also is it made up of givers and receivers. 
Again when he says, "If you would be perfect; sell your posses- 
sions and give to the poor," 67 he convicts the man who boasts 
that he has kept all the commandments from his youth up. For 
he had not fulfilled "Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself." 
Only then was he taught by the Lord who wished to make him 
perfect, to give for love's sake. 

56. Accordingly he has not forbidden us to be rich in the right 
way, but only a wrongful and insatiable grasping of money. For 
"property gained unlawfully is diminished." "There are some 
who sow much and gain the more, and those who hoard become 
impoverished." Of them it is written: "He distributed, he gave 
to the poor, his righteousness endures for ever." 6 ^ For he who 
sows and gathers more is the man who by giving away his earthly 
and temporal goods has obtained a heavenly and eternal prize; 
the other is he who gives to no one, but vainly "lays up treasure 
on earth where moth and rust corrupt"; of him it is written: 
"In gathering money, he has gathered it into a condemned 
celL" 69 Of his land the Lord says in the gospel that it produced 
plentifully; then wishing to store the fruits he built larger store- 
houses, saying to himself in the words dramatically put into his 
mouth "You have many good things laid up for many years to 
come, eat, drink, and be merry. You fool," says the Lord, "this 
night your soul shall be required of you. Whose then shall be 
the things you have prepared? 33 7 

CHAPTER VII 

57. The human ideal of continence, I mean that which is set 
forth by Greek philosophers, teaches that one should fight desire 
and not be subservient to it so as to bring it to practical effect. 
But our ideal is not to experience desire at alli^ Our aim is not 
that while a man feels desire he should get the better of it, but 
that he should be continent even respecting desire itself. This 
chastity cannot be attained in any other way except by God's 
grace. That was why he said "Ask and it shall be given you." 71 
This grace was received even by Moses, though clothed in his 
needy body, so that for forty days he felt neither thirst nor 

66 Prov, 3:3; 10:4; Ps. 15:5; Prov. 13:8. 67 Matt. 19:19-21. 

68 Prov. 13:11; 11:24; Ps. 111:9; cf. Clement, Paedag., Ill, 35:5. 

69 Hag. 1:6. Luke 12:16-20. n Matt. 7:7; cf. Strom., Ill, 4. 



ON MARRIAGE 67 

hunger. 72 J us t as it is better to be in good health than for a sick 
man to talk about health, so to be light is better than to discuss 
light, and true chastity is better than that taught by the philo- 
sophers^ Where there is light there is no darkness. But where 
there^is inward desire, even if it goes no further than desire and 
is quiescent so far as bodily action is concerned, union takes 
place in thought with the object of desire, although that object 
is not present, 

58. Our general argument concerning marriage, food, and 
other matters, may proceed to show that we should do nothing 
from desire. Our will is to be directed only towards that which 
is necessary. For we are children not of desire but of will. 73 A 
man who marries for the sake of begetting children must prac- 
tise continence so that it is not desire he feels for his wife, whom 
he ought to love, and that he may beget children with a chaste 
and controlled will. For we have learnt not to "have thought for 
the flesh to fulfil its desires. 53 We are to "walk honourably as in 
the way", that is in Christ and in the enlightened conduct of 
the Lord's way, "not in revelling and drunkenness, not in de- 
bauchery and lasciviousness, not in strife and envy." 74 

59, However, one ought to consider continence not merely in 
relation to one form of it, that is, sexual relations, but in relation 
to all the other indulgences for which the soul craves when it is 
ill content with what is necessary and seeks for luxury. It is con- 
tinence to despise money, softness, property, to hold in small 
esteem outward appearance, to control one's tongue, to master 
evil thoughts. In the past certain angels became incontinent and 
were seized by desire so that they fell from heaven to earth. 75 
And Valentine says in the letter to Agathopus: 76 "Jesus endured 
all things and was continent; it was his endeavour to earn a 
divine nature; he ate and drank in a manner peculiar to him- 
self and the food did not pass out of his body. Such was the 
power of his continence that food was not corrupted within him; 
for he himself was not subject to the process of corruption." As 
for ourselves, we set high value on continence which arises from 
love to the Lord and seeks that which is good for its own sake, 
sanctifying the temple of the Spirit. It is good if for the sake of 
the kingdom of heaven a man emasculates himself from all 
desire, and "purifies his conscience from dead works to serve 
the living God." 77 

72 Ex. 24:18. 73 Cf. John i :i3. 74 R m. 13:13-14. 

75 Gen, 6:2; cf. Clement, Paedag., Ill, 14:2; Strom., V, 10:2. 

7 <s See Introduction, p. 32. Nothing is known of Agathopus. 77 Heb. 9:14. 



68 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

60. But those who from a hatred for the flesh ungratefully 
long to have nothing to do with the marriage union and the 
eating of reasonable food, are both blockheads and atheists, and 
exercise an irrational chastity like the other heathen. For ex- 
ample, the Brahmans neither eat animal flesh nor drink wine. 
But some of them take food every way, as we do, while others do 
so only on every third day, as Alexander Polyhistor says in his 
Indian History* 1 * They despise deaths and reckon life of no 
account. For they are persuaded that there is a regeneration. 
The gods 79 they worship are Heracles and Pan. And the Indians 
who are called Holy Men go naked throughout their entire life. 
They seek for the truth, and predict the future, and reverence a 
certain pyramid beneath which, they think, lie the bones of a 
certain god. 80 Neither the Gymnosophists nor the so-called Holy 
Men have wives. They think sexual relations are unnatural and 
contrary to law. For this cause they keep themselves chaste. The 
Holy Women are also virgins. They observe, it seems, the 
heavenly bodies and from what they indicate foretell future 
events. 

CHAPTER VIII 

6 1 . Those who hold that for them there is no difference between 
right and wrong force a few passages of Scripture and think they 
favour their own immoral opinions. In particular they quote 
the saying: "Sin shall not have dominion over you; for you are 
not under the law but under grace/ 5 and others of this sort, 
which there is no reason to add, for I am not proposing to fit out 
a pirate ship. Let us then briefly put a stop to their argument. 
The noble apostle himself refutes the charge against him implied 
in their false exegesis by the words with which he continues after 

78 Alexander Polyhistor, frag. 95, Miiller (F.H.G., III, 236) =frag. 18, 
Jacoby (Fr. gr. Hist., Ill A (1940)., p. 99). On the abstinence of the 
Brahmans and Samanaeans, cf. Porphyry, On Abstinence, IV, 17-18. For 
their scorn of death cf. Strom., IV, 17, 50. 

? 9 Read theous de with Miinzel and Stahlin's translation. 

so The pyramid is obviously the Buddhist stupa (for which cf. H. Kern, 
Manual of Indian Buddhism (1896), pp. 91-96). Clement mentions the 
Buddhists in Strom., I, 71 : "Among the Indians there are also adherents 
of the precepts of Buddha, whom because of his exceeding holiness they 
have honoured as a god.*' But his account here seems somewhat confused, 
since in Buddhism nakedness is regarded with horror; nakedness suggests 
perhaps a Jainist community. For a recent discussion cf. E. Benz, 
"Indische Einfliisse auf die fruhchristliche Theologie," in Abhandlwgen 
der Akademie der Wissenschqften und der Literatur, Geistes- wd sozialwissen- 
schqftlichen Klasse (Mainz, 1951), No. 3. 



ON MARRIAGE 69 

the saying just quoted: "What then? Shall we sin because we are 
not under the law but under grace? God forbid. 3 ' 81 In this in- 
spired and prophetic way he at once destroys the device of these 
licentious sophists. 

62. They fail to understand, it seems, that "we must all stand 
before the judgment seat of Christ that each man may be re- 
warded for what he has done with his body, whether it is good 
or bad," that is, in order that a man may receive his reward for 
what he has done by means of his body. So then, "if any man be 
in Christ he is a new creation," no longer inclined to sin ; 
"old things are passed away," we have washed off the old 
life; "behold new things have happened," 82 there is chastity 
instead of fornication, continence instead of incontinence; 
righteousness instead of unrighteousness. "What is there in com- 
mon between righteousness and lawlessness? Or what fellowship 
between light and darkness? Or what harmony between Christ 
and Belial? What community is there between a believer and an 
unbeliever? What agreement between the temple of God and 
idols? Having then these promises let us cleanse ourselves from 
all defilement of flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness in the fear 
ofGod."83 

CHAPTER IX 

63. Those who are opposed to God's creation, disparaging it 
under the fair name of continence, also quote the words to Salome 
which we mentioned earlier. 84 They are found, I believe, in the 
Gospel according to the Egyptians. They say that the Saviour 
himself said "I came to destroy the works of the female," mean- 
ing by "female" desire, and by "works" birth and corruption. 
What then would they say? Has this destruction in fact been 
accomplished? They could not say so, for the world continues 
exactly as before. Yet the Lord did not lie. For in truth he did 
destroy the works of desire, love of money, contentiousness, 
vanity, mad lust for women, paederasty, gluttony, licentious- 
ness, and similar vices. Their birth is the soul's corruption, since 
then we are "dead in sins." 85 And this is the incontinence re- 
ferred to as "female." Birth and the corruption chiefly involved 
in the creation must necessarily continue until the achievement 
of complete separation and the restoration of the elect, on whose 
account even the beings mingled with this world are restored to 
their proper condition. 

si Rom. 6:14-15. 82 II Cor. 5:10, 17. sa H Cor. 6:14-16; 7:1. 

S4 Cf. Strom., Ill, 45, above. ** Eph. 2:5. 



70 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

64. It is probably therefore with reference to the consumma- 
tion that Salome says: " Until when shall men die? 5 ' The Scrip- 
ture uses the word "man" in two senses, the outward man and 
the soul, 86 and again of him who is being saved and him who is 
not; and sin is said to be the death of the soul. That is why the 
Lord gave a cautious answer "As long as women bear chil- 
dren/' that is, as long as the desires are active. "Therefore, as 
through one man sin entered into the world, and through sin 
death came to all men, in that all sinned, and death reigned 
from Adam to Moses," 87 says the apostle. By natural necessity 
in the divine plan death follows birth, and the coming together 
of soul and body is followed by their dissolution. 88 If birth exists 
for the sake of learning and knowledge, dissolution leads to the 
final restoration. As woman is regarded as the cause of death 
because she brings to birth, so also for the same reason she may 
be called the originator of life. 

65. In fact the woman who first began transgression was 
named "Life" 89 because she became responsible for the succes- 
sion of those who were born and fell into sin, the mother of 
righteous and unrighteous alike, since each one of us makes him- 
self either righteous or disobedient. On this account I for my 
part do not think the apostle was expressing disgust at life in the 
flesh when he said: "But with all boldness both now and ever 
Christ shall be magnified in my body, whether by life or by 
death. For to me to live is Christ and to die is gain. If, however, 
it is to be life in the flesh, that also means for me fruitful work. I 
do not know which I prefer. I am constrained on both sides: I 
have a desire to depart and to be with Christ, which is far better; 
but to abide in the flesh is more needful for your sakes." 90 Here 
he showed clearly, I think, that the perfect reason for departing 
from the body is love for God, and that if one is to be in the flesh 
one should thankfully remain here for the sake of those who need 
salvation. 

66. But why do they not go on to quote the words after those 
spoken to Salome, these people who do anything rather than 
walk according to the truly evangelical rule? For when she says, 
"I would have done better had I never given birth to a child," 
suggesting that she might not have been right in giving birth to 
a child, the Lord replies to her saying: "Eat of every plant, but 
eat not of that which has bitterness in it." For by this saying also 
he indicates that whether we are continent or married is a matter 

8<$ II Cor. 4:16. s? Rom. 5:12, 14, 88 C Plato, Phaedo, 67 D. 

Gen. 3:20. w> PHI. 1:20-24. 



ON MARRIAGE 71 

for our free choice and that there is no absolute prohibition 
which would impose continence upon us as a necessity. And he 
further makes it clear that marriage is co-operation with the 
work of creation. 

67. Therefore a man ought not to think that marriage on 
rational principles is a sin, supposing that he does not look on 
the bringing up of children as being bitter (on the contrary to 
many childlessness is most grievous) ; but if a man regards the 
rearing of children as bitter because it distracts him from the 
things of God on account of the time it takes up, he may yet 
desire to marry because he does not take easily to a bachelor's 
life. What he wants to do is not harmful if it is done with self- 
control; and each one of us is master of his own will in deciding 
whether to beget children. But I am aware that because of mar- 
riage there are some who have kept clear of it and against the 
principles of holy knowledge have lapsed into hatred of human- 
ity so that the spirit of charity has departed from them. There 
are others who have become absorbed by marriage and fulfil 
their desires in the indulgence which the law permits, 91 and, as 
the prophet says, "have become like beasts." 92 



CHAPTER X 

68. But who are the two or three gathered in the name of Christ 
in whose midst the Lord is? 93 Does he not by the "three" mean 
husband, wife, and child? 94 For a wife is bound to her husband 
by God. 95 If, however, a man wishes to be undistracted, and 
prefers to avoid begetting children because of the business it in- 
volves, "let him remain unmarried," says the apostle, "even as 
I am." 96 They explain that what the Lord meant was this. By 
the plurality he means the Creator, the God who is the cause of 
the world's existence; and by the one, the elect, he meant the 
Saviour who is Son of another God, the good God. But this is 
not correct. Through his Son, God is with those who are soberly 
married and have children. By the same mediation the same 
God is also with the man who exercises continence on rational 
grounds. 

According to another view the three may be passion, desire, 

9i The Greek phrase occurs in an Epicurean fragment on papyrus (P. Oxy., 

215). 92 Ps. 48:13, 21. 

93 Matt 18:20. 94 Cf. Origen, Comm. in Matt., 14:2. 

95 Prov. 19:14. 96 I Cor. 7:8. 



72 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

and thought; 97 another interpretation makes them flesh, soul, 
and spirit. 98 

69. Perhaps the triad mentioned refers to the called, and in 
the second place to the chosen, and in the third place to the race 
appointed to receive the greatest honour." With them is the 
power of God watching over all things which is indivisibly 
divided among them. He, then, who uses the soul's natural 
powers as is right, desires those things which are appropriate, 
and hates what is harmful, as the commandments prescribe: 
"Thou shalt bless him who blesses thee and curse him who 
curses thee." 1 But when he has risen above these, passion and 
desire, and in very deed has begun to love the creation of the 
God and Creator of all things, then he will live a gnostic life, as 
he has become like the Saviour and has attained to a state of 
continence no longer maintained with difficulty. He has united 
knowledge, faith, and love. Thenceforth he is one in his judg- 
ment and truly spiritual, wholly incapable of thoughts arising 
from passion and desire, one who is to be made perfect after the 
image of the Lord by the artist himself, a perfect man, already 
worthy to be called a brother to the Lord 2 as well as his friend 
and son. Thus the "two" and the "three" come together into 
one and the same thing a gnostic man* 

70. The agreement of many, which is indicated by the num- 
ber "three," with whom the Lord is present, might also be the 
one Church, the one man, and the one race. Or could it mean 
this? The Lord when he gave the law was with the one, that is 
the Jew, Later when he inspired the prophets and sent Jeremiah 
to Babylon 3 and, moreover, called believers from the Gentiles by 
the teaching of the prophets, he brought the two peoples to- 
gether. And was not the third the one which is made out of the 
two into a new man 4 in which he walks and dwells, in the 
Church itself? 5 And the law, the prophets, and also the gospel 
were brought together in Christ's name into a single knowledge. 
Accordingly, those who from hatred do not marry or from desire 
use the flesh as if it were not a matter of right and wrong, 6 are 
not in the number of the saved with whom the Lord is present. 

s>7 Cf. Clement, Paedag., Ill, 1:2; Strom., Ill, 93, below. 

98 I Thess. 5:23, quoted with the same reference by Origen, Comm. in Matt., 

14:3- 

99 The angels. 1 Gen. 12:3; 27:29. 

2 Heb. 2:11. 3 Probably just a mistake. 

*Eph. 2:15. s n Cor. 6:16. 

* Cf. Strom., II, 118; III, 25, 26. 



ON MARRIAGE 73 

CHAPTER XI 

71. The demonstration of these matters being concluded, let us 
now quote all the Scriptures which oppose these heretical 
sophists, and show the right rule of continence that is preserved 
on grounds of reason. The man of understanding will find out 
the particular Scripture which deals with each individual 
heresy, and at the right time will quote it to refute those who 
teach doctrines contrary to the commandments. Right from the 
beginning the law, as we have already said, 7 lays down the com- 
mand, "Thou shalt not covet thy neighbour's wife/' 8 long be- 
fore the Lord's closely similar utterance in the New Testament, 
where the same idea is expressed in his own mouth: "You have 
heard that the law commanded, Thou shalt not commit 
adultery. But I say, Thou shalt not lust." 9 That the law intended 
husbands to cohabit with their wives with self-control and only 
for the purpose of begetting children is evident from the pro- 
hibition which forbids the unmarried man from having im- 
mediate sexual relations with a captive woman. 10 If the man 
has conceived a desire for her, he is directed to mourn for thirty 
days while she is to have her hair cut; if after this the desire has 
not passed off, then they may proceed to beget children, because 
the appointed period enables the overwhelming impulse to be 
tested and to become a rational act of will. 

72. For this reason you could not point to any place in Scrip- 
ture where one of the ancients approached a pregnant woman; 1 1 
later, after the child is born and weaned, you might find that mar- 
riage relations of husbands and wives were resumed. You will 
find that Moses' father kept this principle in mind. After Aaron's 
birth three years passed before Moses was born. 12 Again, the 
tribe of Levi observed this law of nature given by God, although 
they were fewer in number than any others which came into the 
promised land. 13 For a tribe does not easily grow to great num- 
bers if their men have intercourse only within the legal marriage 
relationship and then wait until the end not only of pregnancy 
but also of breast-feeding. 

73. It was, -therefore, reasonable when Moses in his attempt 
to bring the Jews to continence by degrees, directed that after 
sexual intercourse they must abstain for three days before they 



7 Strom., Ill, 9. Ex. 20:17. 9 Matt - 

10 Dcut. 21:11-13; cf. Strom., II, 88-89. " Cf. Paedag., II, 92. 

12 Ex. 7:7. 13 Num. 3:39. 



74 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

heard the divine words. 14 "We are God's temples; as the prophet 
said, I will dwell among them and walk among them, and I will 
be their God, and they shall be my people," if our behaviour 
conforms to the commandments both as individuals and also as 
a society, as the Church. "Wherefore come out from among 
them and be separate, saith the Lord, and touch not the unclean 
thing, and I will receive you and be to you a Father, and you 
shall be my sons and daughters, saith the Lord Almighty/' 15 He 
prophetically commands us to be separate not from those who 
are married, as they assert, but from the heathen who are still 
living in immorality, and also from the heretics we have men- 
tioned, as unclean and godless persons. 

74. Hence Paul speaks against people who are like those I 
have mentioned, saying: "You have then these promises, be- 
loved; let us cleanse ourselves from all defilement of flesh and 
spirit, perfecting holiness in the fear of God." 16 "For I am jeal- 
ous for you with a divine jealousy, for I betrothed you to one 
husband to present a pure virgin to Christ." 17 The Church can- 
not marry another, having obtained a bridegroom; but each of 
us individually has the right to marry the woman he wishes 
according to the law; I mean here first marriage. 18 "I am afraid 
lest, as the serpent in his craftiness deceived Eve, so also your 
thoughts may be corrupted from the simplicity which is toward 
Christ," 19 said the apostle as a very careful and conscientious 
teacher. 

75. So also the admirable Peter says; "Beloved, I exhort you 
as strangers and pilgrims, to abstain from carnal lusts, which 
war against the soul, and conduct yourselves well among the 
heathen; for this is the will of God that by doing good you 
should put to silence the activity of foolish men, as free and not 
using your freedom as a covering for evil, but as God's slaves." 20 
Likewise also Paul in the Epistle to the Romans writes; "We 
who are dead to sin, how shall we any longer live in it? Because 
our old man is crucified with him, that the body of sin might be 
destroyed/* down to the words, "do not present your members 
as instruments of unrighteousness to sin." 21 

76. While on this point I think I must not omit mention of 
the fact that the apostle declares that the same God is the God 
of the law, the prophets, and the gospel. In the 4 Epistle to the 
Romans he quotes the gospel saying "Thou shalt not lust" as 

i* Ex. 19:15. is II Cor. 6:16-18. w II Cor. 7:1. 

n II Con 11:2, is Cf. Strom., Ill, 4; 82, w II Cor. 11:3. 

20 I Peter 2:1 1 f., 15 f. 21 R om . 6:2, 13. 



ON MARRIAGE 75 

if it were from the law, knowing that it is the one Father who is 
preached by the law and the prophets. For he says: "What shall 
we say? Is the law sin? God forbid. I had not known sin except 
through the law; and I had not known lust unless the law had 
said, Thou shalt not lust." 22 Even if the heretics who are op- 
posed to the Creator suppose that in the next sentence Paul was 
speaking against him when he says, "I know that in me, that is 
in my flesh, there dwells no good thing/ 5 yet let them read what 
precedes and follows this. For before it he says, "But sin which 
dwells in me," which explains why it was appropriate for him 
to say, "in my flesh dwells no good thing." 23 

77. In what follows he continues, "But if I do that which I do 
not wish to do, it is no longer I that do it, but sin which dwells 
in me," which being at war with the law of God and "of my 
mind," he says, "makes me captive by the law of sin which is 
in my members. O wretched man that I am, who shall deliver 
me from this body of death." 24 And again (for he does not be- 
come in the least weary of being helpful) he does not hesitate to 
add, "For the law of the Spirit has set me free from the law of 
sin and death," since by his Son "God condemned sin in the 
flesh that the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us 
who walk not after the flesh but after the Spirit." 25 In addition 
to this he makes the point still clearer by saying emphatically, 
"The body is dead because of sin," indicating that if it is not the 
temple, 26 it is still the tomb of the soul. 27 For when it is dedi- 
cated to God, he adds, "the spirit of him who raised Jesus from 
the dead dwells in you, who shall also make alive your mortal 
bodies through his Spirit dwelling in you." 28 

78. Again his remarks are directed against libertines when he 
continues as follows: "The mind of the flesh is death because 
those who live according to the flesh mind the things of the 
flesh, and the mind of the flesh is enmity against God. For it is 
not subject to the law of God. Those who are in the flesh cannot 
please God," not in the sense in which some teach, but in the 
sense which we have already explained. Then by contrast to 
this he says to the Church: "But you are not in the flesh but in 
the spirit, if the Spirit of God dwells in you. If any man has not 
Christ's Spirit, he is none of his. But if Christ be in you, the body 
is dead because of sin, the Spirit is life because of righteousness. 
So then, brethren, we are under an obligation, not to the flesh 

22 Rom. 7:7. 23 Rom. 7:17-18. 24 Rom. 7:20, 23 f. 

25 Rom. 8:2-4. 26 Gf. I Cor. 3:16; 6:19. 

27 Cf. Plato, Crat. 9 400 BC; cf. Strom., Ill, 16. 28 R O m. 8:10 f. 



76 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

to live after the flesh. If you live after the flesh you shall die. But 
if by the Spirit you mortify the deeds of the body, you shall live. 
For all who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God." 29 And 
against the "nobility of birth" and the "freedom" 30 abominably 
taught by the heretics who make a boast of their licentiousness, 
he goes on to say: "You have not received the spirit of bondage 
that you should again be in fear, but you have received the 
spirit of sonship by which we cry, Abba, Father." 31 That is, we 
have received the Spirit for this purpose, that we may know him 
to whom we pray, the true Father, the only Father of all that is, 
him who like a father educates us for salvation and destroys fear. 

CHAPTER XII 

79. If by agreement marriage relations are suspended for a time 
to give opportunity for prayer, 32 this teaches continence. He 
adds the words "by agreement" lest anyone should dissolve his 
marriage, and the words "for a time" lest a married man, 
brought to continence by force, should then fall into sin; for if 
he spares his own wife he may fall into desire for another woman. 
On this principle he said that the man who thinks he is not be- 
having properly if he brings up his daughter to be unmarried, 
does right to give her in marriage. 33 Whether a man becomes a 
celibate or whether he joins himself in marriage with a woman 
for the sake of having children, his purpose ought to be to re- 
main unyielding to what is inferior. If he can live a life of intense 
devotion, he will gain to himself great merit with God, 34 since 
his continence is both pure and reasonable. But if he goes be- 
yond the rule he has chosen to gain greater glory, there is a 
danger that he may lose hope. 35 Both celibacy and marriage 
have their own different forms of service and ministry to the 
Lord; I have in mind the caring for one's wife and children. 
For it seems that the particular characteristic of the married 
state is that it gives the man who desires a perfect marriage an 
opportunity to take responsibility for everything in the home 
which he shares with his wife. The apostle says that one should 
appoint bishops who by their oversight over their own house 
have learned to be in charge of the whole church. 36 Let each 

29 Rom. 8:5-7, 9~ IO J 12-14. 30 Cf. Strom., Ill, 30, above. 

3i Rom. 8:15. 32 I Cor. 7:5. 33 I Cor. 7:36. 

34 Cf. Shepherd of Hennas, Simit., V, 3:3 "If you do a good deed outside 
God's command, you gain for yourself greater glory ..." 

35 QT. Basilides in Strom., Ill, 2, above. 36 I Tim. 3:4 f. 



ON MARRIAGE 77 

man therefore fufil his ministry by the work in which he was 
called, 37 that he may be free 38 in Christ and receive the proper 
reward of his ministry. 

80. Again when speaking about the law he makes use of an 
illustration saying: "The married woman is by law bound to her 
husband while he is alive" 39 and the following words. And 
again: "The wife is bound to her husband so long as he is alive, 
but if he dies, she is free to marry, only in the Lord. But she is 
happier in my judgment if she remains as she is. 3 ' 40 Moreover in 
the former passage he says, "You are dead to the law," not to 
marriage, "that you may belong to another who was raised 
from the dead," as Bride and Church. The Church must be 
chaste, both from inward thoughts contrary to the truth and 
from outward tempters, that is the adherents of the sects who 
would persuade her to commit fornication against her one hus- 
band, Almighty God, lest as the serpent deceived Eve, 41 who is 
called Life, 42 we too should be led to transgress the command- 
ments by the lewd craftiness of the sects. The second passage 
teaches single marriage. One should not suppose, as some have 
expounded the text, that when Paul says the wife is bound to her 
husband he means that flesh is involved in corruption. 43 He is 
attacking the notion of the godless men who attribute the inven- 
tion of marriage directly to the devil, 44 a notion which danger- 
ously blasphemes the Lawgiver. 

8 1. I believe Tatian the Syrian made bold to teach these 
doctrines. At any rate he writes these words in his book On Per- 
fection According to the Saviour:* 5 "While agreement to be con- 
tinent makes prayer possible, 46 intercourse of corruption des- 
troys it. By the very disparaging way in which he allows it, he 
forbids it. 47 For although he allowed them to come together 
again because of Satan and the temptation to incontinence, he 
indicated that the man who takes advantage of this permission 
will be serving two masters, 48 God if there is 'agreement/ but, 

37 I Cor. 7:24. 38 1 Cor. 7:22. & Rom. 7:2. 

40 I Cor. 7:39 f. 41 II Cor. 11:3. 42 Ge n . 3 ; 2 o. 

43 Epiphanius (Panarion, 46:2 f.) attributes this view to Tatian. 

44 Cf. Strom., 111,49:81. 

45 The title is drawn from Luke 6:40. Rendel Harris, "Tatian: Perfection 
according to the Saviour," in Bulletin J. RyL Libr., VIII, i (Jan. 1924), 
translates an Armenian fragment which he would identify as coming from 
this work, but his evidence is not cogent. 46 Cf. I Cor. 7:5. 

47 Cf. Tertullian, ad Uxorem, I, 3: "Some things are not to be sought after 
because they are not forbidden even though in a certain sense they are 
forbidden when other things are valued more highly." 48 Matt, 6:24. 



78 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

if there is no such agreement, incontinence, fornication, and the 
devil. 55 This he says in expounding the apostle. But he falsifies 
the truth in that by means of what is true he tries to prove what 
is untrue. We too confess that incontinence and fornication are 
diabolical passions, but the agreement of a controlled marriage 
occupies a middle position. If the married couple agree to be 
continent, it helps them to pray; if they agree with reverence to 
have sexual relations it leads them to beget children. In fact the 
right time to procreate is said in Scripture to be knowledge 49 
since it says: "And Adam knew his wife Eve, and she conceived 
and bore a son, and they called him by the name of Seth. For 
God has raised up for me other seed instead of Abel." 50 You see 
who is the object of the blasphemy of those who abuse sober 
marriage and attribute birth to the devil? The Scripture here 
does not speak simply of a God, but of the God, indicating the 
Almighty by the addition of the definite article. 

82. The point of the apostle's addition "And then come to- 
gether again because of Satan" is to stop the husband from ever 
turning aside after other women. A temporary agreement, al- 
though for the moment intercourse is not approved, does not 
mean that the natural instincts are completely removed. Because 
of them he again restores the marriage bond, not so that hus- 
band and wife may be incontinent and fornicate and do the 
devil's work, but to prevent them from falling into incontinence, 
fornication, and the devil. Tatian also separates the old man and 
the new, 51 but not as we understand it. We agree with him that 
the law is the old man and the gospel the new, and say the same 
ourselves, but not in the sense in which he takes it since he would 
do away with the law as originating from another God. But it is 
the same man and Lord who makes the old new, by no longer 
allowing several marriages (for at that time God 52 required it 
when men had to increase and multiply), and by teaching single 
marriage for the sake of begetting children and looking after 
domestic affairs, for which purpose woman was given as a 
"helpmeet. 5 ' 53 And if from sympathy the apostle allows a man a 
second marriage because he cannot control himself and burns 
with passion, 54 he also does not commit any sin according to the 

49 Gf. Strom.,, Ill, 94, where Adam's fall consisted in having intercourse 

before the proper time, 
so Gen.4:25. si Cf. Rom. 7:2. 

52 Perhaps by a change of text (L. Friichtel in Wiirzb. Jahrb., II (1947), 
p. 149) read "for then the time required it . . ," 

53 Gen, 2:18, * Cf. I Cor. 7:9, 36, 39 f.; Strom., Ill, 4- 



ON MARRIAGE 79 

Old Testament (for it was not forbidden by the Law), but he 
does not fulfil the heightened perfection of the gospel ethic. But 
he gains heavenly glory for himself if he remains as he is, 55 and 
keeps undefiled the marriage yoke broken by death, and will- 
ingly accepts God's purpose for him, by which he has become 
free from distraction for the service of the Lord. 56 But the 
providence of God as revealed by the Lord does not order now, 
as it did in ancient times, that after sexual intercourse a man 
should wash. 5 7 p or there is no need for the Lord to make be- 
lievers do this after intercourse since by one Baptism he has 
washed them clean for every such occasion, as also he has com- 
prehended in one Baptism the many washings of Moses. 

83. In ancient times the law directed washing after the emis- 
sion of the generative seed because it was foretelling our 
regeneration by speaking of fleshly birth, not because it held 
human birth to be a defilement. For that which after birth ap- 
pears as a man is effected by the emission of the seed. It is not 
frequent intercourse of the parents which produces birth, but 
the reception of the seed in the womb. In the workshop of 
nature 5S the seed is transformed into an embryo. How then can 
marriage be a state only intended for ancient times and an in- 
vention of the law, and marriage on Chrisitian principles of a 
different nature, if we hold that the Old and the New Testa- 
ments proclaim the same God? "For what God has joined to- 
gether no man may ever put asunder" for any good reason; if 
the Father commanded this, so much the more also will the Son 
keep it. If the author of the law and the gospel is the same, he 
never contradicts himself. For there is life in the law in that it is 
spiritual 60 and is to be gnostically understood. But "we are dead 
to the law^by the body of Christ, that we should belong to an- 
other, to him who was raised from the dead" and was prophesied 
by the law: "that we might bear fruit unto God. 5 ' 61 

84. Therefore "the law is holy and the commandment holy, 
righteous, and good/' 62 We, then, are dead to the law, that is to 
sin of which the law makes us aware; the law indicates it, it does 
not give rise to it; by telling us what we ought to do and pro- 
hibiting what we ought not to do, the law shows up the sin 
which lies underneath "that sin may be manifest.'* 63 But if 
marriage according to the law is sin, I do not know how anyone 

55 Cf. Strom., Ill, 79. 56 I Cor. 7:35. 5? Lev. 15:18. 

ss Cf. Strom., IV, 150: Philo, de Aetern. Mundi, 66; de Sp. Leg., 3:109; Leg. ad 

G -> 56. 59 Matt. 19:6. eo Rom. 7:14. 

61 Rom. 7:4. 62 Rom. 7:12. 63 R om . 7:13. 



8o CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

can say he knows God when he asserts that the command of God 
is sin. If the law is holy, marriage is holy. This mystery the 
apostle refers to Christ and the Church. 64 Just as "that which is 
born of the flesh is flesh, so that which is born of the spirit is 
spirit" 65 not only in respect of its birth but also of what is ac- 
quired by learning. Thus "the children also are holy," 66 they 
are well-pleasing to God, in that the Lord's words bring the soul 
as a bride to God. Fornication and marriage are therefore dif- 
ferent things, as far apart as God is from the devil. "And you 
are dead to the law through the body of Christ so that you might 
belong to another, to him who was raised from the dead." 67 It 
is to be understood here that you become closely obedient, since 
it is also according to the truth of the law that we obey the same 
Lord whose commands are given to us from a distance. 68 

85. And no doubt of such people it is reasonable when, "the 
Spirit says expressly that in the last times some shall depart from 
the faith, giving heed to spirits of error and the teaching in- 
spired by daemons, through hypocritical sophists who are seared 
in conscience and forbid marriage, and demand abstinence 
from foods which God created to be eaten with thanksgiving by 
believers who know the truth. Everything created by God is 

food, and none is to be rejected but accepted with thanksgiving, 
or it is sanctified by the Word of God and by prayer." 69 It 
necessarily follows, then, that it is wrong to forbid marriage and 
indeed eating meat or drinking wine. For it is written: "It is 
good to eat no meat and to drink no wine" 70 if it causes offence 
to do so, and that it is "good to remain as I am." 71 But both he 
who eats with thanksgiving and he who does not eat, who also 
offers thanksgiving 72 and has a continent enjoyment, should 
live in accordance with reason. 

86, In general all the epistles of the apostle teach self-control 
and continence and contain numerous instructions about mar- 
riage, begetting children, and domestic life. But they nowhere 
rule out self-controlled marriage. Rather they preserve the har- 
mony of the law and the gospel and approve both the man who 
with thanks to God enters upon marriage with sobriety and the 
man who in accordance with the Lord's will lives as a celibate, 
even as each individual is called, making his choice without 
blemish and in perfection. "And the land of Jacob was praised 
above all other lands/' says the prophet, glorifying the vessel of his 

4 Eph. 5.32. John 3:6. 6<s I Con 7:14* 

<*7 Rom. 7:4. Cf. Isa. 46:11, # I Tim. 4:1-5. 

ra Rom. 14:21* ? i I Cor. 7:8, n I Tim. 4:4; Rom. 14:6. 



ON MARRIAGE 8l 

spirit. 73 But a certain man 74 who disparages birth, speaking of it 
as corrupt and destined for abolition, and does violence to the 
Scripture, saying that the Lord was referring to procreation in 
the words that on earth one ought not to "Jay up treasure where 
moth and rust corrupt." 75 And he is not ashamed to add to this 
the quotation from "the prophet: "You all shall wax old like a 
garment and moth shall eat you." 76 But we do not contradict 
the Scripture. Our bodies are corruptible and by nature subject 
to continual change. 77 Perhaps the prophet was foretelling 
destruction to those whom he was addressing because they were 
sinners. But the Saviour did not refer to begetting children, but 
was exhorting those who wished only to possess large wealth and 
not to help the needy, to share their goods with others. 

87. That is why he says: "Work not for the food which per- 
ishes, but for that which abides unto eternal life." 78 Similarly 
they quote the saying: "The children of the age to come neither 
marry nor are given in marriage." 79 But if anyone thinks care- 
fully about this question concerning the resurrection of the dead 
and those who asked it, he will find that the Lord is not rejecting 
marriage, but ridding their minds of the expectation that in the 
resurrection there will be carnal desire. The phrase "the chil- 
dren of this age" is not meant to make a contrast with the 
children of some other age, but is equivalent to saying "those 
who are born in this age," who are children because of birth; 
they beget and are begotten since without birth no one will 
come into this life. But this birth, which must expect a corres- 
ponding corruption, 80 no longer awaits him who has once de- 
parted from this life. "Your father in heaven is one," but he is 
also father of all men by creation. "Therefore call no man your 
father on earth," 81 which is as if he said: Do not reckon him who 
begat you by fleshly generation to be the cause of your being, 
but as the one who co-operated in causing your birth, or rather 
as a subordinate helper to that end. 

88. He thus wishes us to turn ourselves again and become as 
children 82 who have come to know the true Father and are re- 
born through water by a generation different from birth in the 
created world. Yes, he says, "the unmarried cares for the things 

73 The source of the quotation is unknown; the entire sentence is cited by 
Clement from the Epistle of Barnabas (11:9). 

74 Schwartz (in his edition of Tatian, p. 49) thinks this is not Tatian. 

75 Matt. 6:19. 76 Isa. 50:9. 77 Of. Haw. Theol Rev., XLI (1948), p. 87. 
78 John 6:27, 7? Luke 20:35. 

so A philosophical commonplace; cf. Strom., Ill, 45, 64, above. 
si Matt. 23:9. 82 Matt. 18:3. 

A.C. 6 



82 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

of the Lord, but he who is married how he can please his wife/' 83 
What then? Is it not lawful also for those who wish to please 
their wives according to the will of God to give thanks to God? 
Is it not allowable for both the married man and his wife to 
care for things of the Lord together? But just as "the unmarried 
woman cares for the things of the Lord, that she may be holy 
both in body and spirit/' 84 so also the married woman cares in 
the Lord for the things of her husband and the things of the 
Lord, the one as a wife, the other as a virgin. But to put to shame 
and to discourage those inclined to contract a second marriage 
the apostle appropriately uses strong language and says at 
once: "Every other sin is external to the body, but he who com- 
mits fornication sins against his own body." 85 

89. But if anyone dares to call marriage fornication, he again 
falls into blasphemy against the law and the Lord. For as 
covetousness is called fornication because it is opposed to con- 
tentment with what one possesses, and as idolatry is an abandon- 
ment of the one God to embrace many gods, so fornication is 
apostasy from single marriage to several. For, as we have re- 
marked, the apostle uses the words fornication and adultery in 
three senses. 86 On this matter the prophet says: "You were sold 
to your sins." And again: "You were defiled in a foreign land." 87 
Here he regards as defilement an association which is bound up 
with a strange body and not with that which in marriage is be- 
stowed for the purpose of procreation. That is why the apostle 
also says: "I wish then that the younger women marry, bear 
children, look after their houses, and give the adversary no 
occasion for abuse; for some have already turned aside after 
Satan." as 

90. And indeed he entirely approves of the man who is hus- 
band of one wife, whether he be presbyter, deacon, or layman, if 
he conducts his marriage unblameably. 89 "For he shall be saved 
by child-bearing." 90 Again when the Saviour calls the Jews "a 
wicked and adulterous generation" 91 he teaches that they did 
not know the law as the law intended; by following the tradition 
of the elders and the commandments of men, 92 they were com- 
mitting adultery against the law, as they did not accept "the 
husband and lord of their virginity." 93 But perhaps he also 
knew that they were enslaved by alien desires, on account of 

83 I Cor- 7:32 84 I Cor. 7:34. *s I Cor. 6:18, 
se Cf. Strom., VII, 75, below. 87 Isa, 50:1; Baruch 3:10. 

ss I Tim. 5:14 L *? I Tim. 3:2, 12; Titus 1:6. 

90 I Tim. 3:15. 9i Matt 12139, 92 Matt 15:2, 9. ^ Jer. 3:4. 



ON MARRIAGE 83 

which they were in continual bondage to their sins and were 
sold to foreigners, since among the Jews at least no public har- 
lots existed and adultery was forbidden. But he who said, "I 
have married a wife and therefore I cannot come" 94 to the 
divine supper was an example to convict those who for pleasure's 
sake were abandoning the divine command; for if this saying is 
taken otherwise, neither the righteous before the coming of 
Christ nor those who have married since his coming, even if they 
be apostles, will be saved. And if they again bring forward the 
point that the prophet also said, "I have become old among all 
my enemies," 95 by "enemies" they ought to understand sins. It 
is not marriage that is a sin but fornication, since otherwise they 
must say that birth and the creation of birth are sinful. 

CHAPTER XIII 

91. Such are the arguments of Julius Cassianus, 96 the originator 
of docetism. At any rate in his book Concerning Continence and 
Celibacy he says these words: "And let no one say that because 
we have these parts, that the female body is shaped this way and 
the male that way, the one to receive, the other to give seed, 
sexual intercourse is allowed by God. For if this arrangement 
had been made by God, to whom we seek to attain, he would 
not have pronounced eunuchs blessed; nor would the prophet 
have said that they are 'not an unfruitful tree/ 97 using the tree 
as an illustration of the man who chooses to emasculate himself 
of any such notion." 

92. And striving still further to support his godless opinion 
he adds: "Could not one rightly find fault with the Saviour if he 
was responsible for our formation and then delivered us from 
error and from this use of the generative organs?" In this respect 
his teaching is the same as Tatian's. But he departed from the 
school of Valentine. On this account he says; "When Salome 
asked when she would know the answer to her questions, the 
Lord said. When you trample on the robe of shame, and when 
the two shall be one, and the male with the female, and there is 
neither male nor female." 95 

93. In the first place we have not got the saying in the four 
Gospels that have been handed down to us, but in the Gospel 
according to the Egyptians. Secondly Cassian seems to me not 
to know that it refers to wrath in speaking of the male impulse 

s>4 Luke 14:20. 95 Ps, 6:7. 96 See Introduction, p. 23, 

s>7 Isa. 56:3. > C II Clement, XII, 2; Strom. 9 III, 45, above. 



84 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

and to desire in speaking of the female. When these operate, 
there follow repentance and shame. But when a man gives in 
neither to wrath nor to desire,, both of which increase in conse- 
quence of evil habit and unbringing so as to cloud and obscure 
rational thought," but puts off from him the darkness they 
cause with penitence and shame, uniting spirit and soul in obedi- 
ence to the Word, then, as Paul also says, "there is among you 
neither male nor female." 1 For the soul leaves this physical 
form in which male and female are distinguished, and being 
neither the one nor the other changes to unity. 2 But this worthy 
fellow thinks in Platonic fashion that the soul is of divine origin 
and, having become female by desire, has come down here from 
above to birth and corruption. 3 

CHAPTER XIV 

94. He then does violence to Paul, making him hold that birth 
originated from deceit because he says: "I am afraid lest, as the 
serpent deceived Eve, your thoughts should be corrupted from 
the simplicity which is towards Christ." 4 But the Lord, as all 
agree, came to that which was astray, 5 but it had not strayed from 
above into earthly birth (for birth is created and the creation of 
the Almighty who would never bring the soul down from what 
is good to what is bad). The Saviour came to men who were 
astray in their thoughts, to us whose minds were corrupted as a 
result of our disobeying the commandments because we were 
lovers of pleasure, and perhaps also because the first man of our 
race did not bide his time, desired the favour of marriage before 
the proper hour, and fell into sin by not waiting for the time of 
God's will; 6 "for every one who looks upon a woman to lust 
after her has already committed adultery with her." 7 

95. It was the same Lord who at that time also condemned 
the desire which preceded marriage. When, therefore, the 
apostle says, "Put on the new man which is created after God," 8 
he speaks to us who were formed as we are by the will of the 
Almighty. In speaking of the old man and the new he is not re- 
ferring to birth and rebirth respectively, but to manner of life, 
the one being disobedient, the other obedient. The "coats of 

99 Cf. Plato, Rep., 492 A, 495 A. 
i Gal. 3:28. 2 Cf. Strom., Ill, 69, above. 

3 Cf. Strom., Ill, 13; IV, 83; Plato, Phaedo, 81 C; Phaedr., 248 G. 

4 II Cor. 1 1 -.3. 5 Matt. 18:1 1. 6 Cf. Strom., Ill, 81. 
? Matt* 5:28. s Eph. 4:24. 



ON MARRIAGE 85 

skins" in Cassian's view are bodies. 9 That both he and those 
who teach the same as he does are wrong here we will show 
later when we undertake an explanation of the birth of man 
after the necessary preliminary discussion. He further says: 
"The subjects of earthly kings both beget and are born, 'but our 
citizenship is in heaven, from whence also we look for the 
Saviour. 3 " 10 That this remark also is right we recognize, since 
we ought to behave as strangers and pilgrims, if married as 
though we were not married, if possessing wealth as though we 
did not possess it, if procreating children as giving birth to mor- 
tals, as those who are ready to abandon their property, as men 
who would even live without a wife if need be, as people who 
are not passionately attached to the created world, but use it 
with all gratitude and with a sense of exaltation beyond it. 

CHAPTER XV 

96. And again when the apostle says, "It is good for a man 
not to touch a woman; but because of the risk of immorality let 
each man have his own wife," he explains it, as it were, by the 
further words "lest Satan tempt you." 11 In the phrase "because 
of incontinence" 12 he speaks not to those who chastely use mar- 
riage for procreation alone, but to those who were desiring to 
go beyond procreation, lest the adversary should raise a stormy 
blast and arouse desire for alien pleasures. But perhaps because 
Satan is zealously hostile to those who live rightly and contends 
against them, and wishes to bring them over to his own side, he 
aims to give them occasions for falling by making it difficult for 
them to be continent. 

97. Accordingly the apostle rightly says, "It is better to marry 
than to burn," 13 that the husband may give to the wife her due 
and the wife to the husband, and that they should not deprive 
one another of help given by divine providence for the purpose 
of generation. "But whosoever shall not hate father or mother or 
wife or children," they quote, "cannot be my disciple." 14 This 
is not a command to hate one's family. For he says: "Honour 

$ Gen. 3:21, Among the gnostics this interpretation of the coats of skins is 
common; it was also attributed to Origen, who certainly regarded it as 
a possible interpretation but does not definitely declare himself. Cf. my 
note on Origen, contra Celsum, IV, 40. Philo understood them in this sense 
(Leg. Alleg., III, 69; de Post. Caini, 137) and also Porphyry (de Abst., I, 31, 
probably following Numenius). 10 Phil. 3:20. 

11 I Cor. 7:1 fl, 5. i2 I Cor. 7:5. 

13 I Cor. 7:9. 14 Luke 14:26. 



86 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

thy father and thy mother that it may be well with thee." 15 But 
what he means is this: Do not let yourself be led astray by irra- 
tional impulses and have nothing to do with the city customs. 
For a household consists of a family, and cities of households., as 
Paul also says of those who are absorbed in marriage that they 
aim to "please the world." 16 Again the Lord says, "Let not the 
married person seek a divorce, nor the unmarried person mar- 
riage," 17 that is, he who has confessed his intention of being 
celibate, let him remain unmarried. 

98. To both the same Lord gives the corresponding promises 
by the prophet Isaiah in the following words: "Let not the 
eunuch say, I am dry wood. To eunuchs the Lord says this. If 
you keep my sabbaths and do all that I command you, I will 
give you a place better than sons and daughters." 18 For a 
eunuch is not justified merely because he is a eunuch, and cer- 
tainly not because he observes the sabbath, if he does not keep 
the commandments. And for the married he goes on to say, "My 
elect shall not labour in vain nor bear children to be accursed; 
for they are a seed blessed by the Lord." 19 For him who begets 
children and brings them up and educates them in the Lord, 
just as for him who begets children by means of the true teach- 
ing, a reward is laid up, as also for the elect seed. But others hold 
that procreation is a curse and do not understand that the 
Scripture speaks against them. Those who are in truth the 
Lord's elect neither teach doctrines nor beget children to be 
accursed, as the sects do. 

99. A eunuch, then, does not mean a man who has been cas- 
trated, nor even an unmarried man, but a man who is un- 
productive of truth. Formerly he was "dry wood," but if he 
obeys the word and observes the sabbaths by abstaining from 
sins and keeps the commandments, he will be in higher honour 
that those who are educated in word alone and fail to do what is 
right. "Little children^" says our teacher, "a little while longer 
I am with you." 20 That is why Paul also instructs the Galatians 
in these words: "My little children, with whom I travail in birth 
again until Christ be formed in you." 21 And again he writes to 
the Corinthians: "For though you may have ten thousand in- 
structors in Christ, yet you have not many fathers. For in Christ 
I have begotten you through the gospel." 22 On this account a 

Ex. 20:12. is i Cor. 7:33. 

i? Cf. I Cor. 7:27, 32-36. The quotation may be taken from the Gospel 

according to the Egyptians. is Isa. 56:3-5, 1$ Isa. 65:23. 

20 John 13:33. 21 Gal. 4:19. 22 j Cor. 4:15. 



ON MARRIAGE 87 

eunuch "shall not enter into God's assembly/' 23 that is, the man 
who is unproductive and unfruitful both in conduct and in 
word; but blessed are those who have made themselves eunuchs, 
free from all sin, for the sake of the kingdom of heaven by their 
abstinence from the world. 24 



CHAPTER XVI 

100. When Jeremiah says, "Cursed be the day in which I was 
born, and let it not be longed for," he is not saying simply that 
birth is accursed, but is in despair at the sins and disobedience 
of the people. In fact he goes on, "Why was I born to see labour 
and pain and my days accomplished in shame?" 25 All those 
who preach the truth are persecuted and in danger because of 
the disobedience of their hearers. "Why did not my mother's 
womb become my tomb, that I might not see the distress of 
Jacob and the toil of the nation of Israel?" says Esdras the 
prophet. 26 "No one is pure from defilement," says Job, "not 
even if his life last but one day." 27 Let them tell us how the 
newly born child could commit fornication, or how that which 
has done nothing has fallen under the curse of Adam. The only 
consistent answer for them, it seems, is to say that birth is an 
evil, not only for the body, but also for the soul for the sake of 
which the body itself exists. And when David says: "In sin I was 
born and in unrighteousness my mother conceived me," 28 he 
says in prophetic manner that Eve is his mother. For "Eve be- 
came the mother of the living." 29 But if he was conceived in sin, 
yet he was not himself in sin, nor is he himself sin. 

101, But on the question whether everyone who turns from 
sin to faith turns from sinful habits to life as though born of a 
mother, I may call as witness one of the twelve prophets who 
said: "Am I to give my firstborn for my impiety, the fruit of my 
womb for the sin of my soul?" 30 This is not an attack on him who 
said; "Increase and multiply," 31 Rather he calls the first im- 
pulses resulting from birth, by which we do not know God, "im- 
piety." If on this basis anyone maintains that birth is evil, let 
him also on the same ground hold that it is good, since in it we 

23 Deut. 23:1. 

24 An allusion to a saying ascribed to Jesus, not in the canonical gospels; c 
Oxyrhyncus Logia (P, Oxy., i); Clement, Eel. Proph., 14:1. 

23 Jer. 20:14. 26 II Esdras 5:35. 27 Job. 14:4 f. 

23 Ps. 51(50)15. 29 Gen. 3:20. 3 Micah 6:7. 

3i On. 1:28. 



88 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

recognize the truth. "Be sober as is right, and sin not; for some 
have not the knowledge of God," 32 that is, those who sin. "For 
we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against spiritual 
powers. 5 ' 33 But "the rulers of darkness" have power to tempt us. 
That is why concessions are made. 34 Therefore also Paul says: 
"I buffet my body and bring it into subjection." "For everyone 
who wishes to take part in a contest is continent in all things" 
(the words "he is continent in all things" really mean that, 
though he does not abstain from everything, yet he is self- 
controlled on such things as he thinks fit). "They do it to obtain 
a corruptible crown, but we an incorruptible," 35 if we conquer 
in the struggle, though there is no crown for us if we do not put 
up any fight at all. There are also some now who rank the widow 
higher than the virgin in the matter of continence, on the ground 
that she scorns pleasure of which she has had experience. 36 

CHAPTER XVII 

102. If birth is something evil, let the blasphemers say that the 
Lord who shared in birth was born in evil, and that the virgin 
gave birth to him in evil. Woe to these wicked fellows! They 
blaspheme against the will of God and the mystery of creation in 
speaking evil of birth. This is the ground upon which Docetism 
is held by Cassian and by Marcion also, and on which even 
Valentine indeed teaches that Christ's body was "psychic." 37 
They say: Man became like the beasts when he came to practise 
sexual intercourse. But it is when a man in his passion really 
wants to go to bed with a strange woman that in truth such a 
man has become a wild beast. "Wild horses were they become, 
each man whinnied after his neighbour's wife." 38 And if the 
serpent took the use of intercourse from the irrational animals 
and persuaded Adam to agree to have sexual union with Eve, as 
though the couple first created did not have such union by 
nature, as some think, this again is blasphemy against the crea- 
tion. For it makes human nature weaker than that of the brute 
beasts if in this matter those who were first created by God 
copied them. 

32 I Cor. 15:34. 33 Eph. 6:12. 34 Qf. I Cor. 7:6. 

35 I Cor. 9:27, 25. 

3* Cf. Strom., VII, 72, 76. Tertullian, ad Uxorem, I, 8. The opposite view is 

taken by Augustine, de sancta Virginitate^ 46. 
37 Cf. Introduction, p. 32. 
3Jer. 5 :8. 



ON MARRIAGE 89 

103. But if nature led them, like the irrational animals, to 
procreation, yet they were impelled to do it more quickly than 
was proper because they were still young and had been led 
away by deceit. Thus God's judgment against them was just, 
because they did not wait for his will. But birth is holy. By it 
were made the world, the existences, the natures, the angels, 
powers, souls, the commandments, the law, the gospel, the 
knowledge of God. And "all flesh is grass, and all the glory of 
man as the flower of grass. The grass withers, the flower falls; 
but the word of the Lord abides" 39 which anoints the soul and 
unites it with the spirit. Without the body how could the divine 
plan for us in the Church achieve its end? Surely the Lord him- 
self, the head of the Church, 40 came in the flesh, though without 
form and beauty, 41 to teach us to look upon the formless and 
incorporeal nature of the divine Cause. "For a tree of life" says 
the prophet, "grows by a good desire," 42 teaching that desires 
which are in the living Lord are good and pure. 

104. Furthermore they wish to maintain that the intercourse 
of man and wife in marriage, which is called knowledge, 43 is a 
sin; this sin is referred to as eating of the tree of good and evil, 
and the phrase "he knew" 44 signifies transgression of the com- 
mandment. But if this is so, even knowledge of the truth is eating 
of the tree of life. 45 It is possible for a sober-minded marriage to 
partake of that tree. We have already observed that marriage 
may be used rightly or wrongly; 46 and this is the tree of know- 
ledge, if we do not transgress in marriage. What then? Does not 
the Saviour who heals the soul also heal the body of its passions? 
But if the flesh were hostile to the soul, he would not have raised 
an obstacle to the soul by strengthening with good health the 
hostile flesh. "This I say, brethren, that flesh and blood cannot 
inherit the kingdom of God nor corruption incorruption." 47 
For sin being corruption cannot have fellowship with incorrup- 
tion which is righteousness. "Are you so foolish?" he says; "hav- 
ing begun in the Spirit are you now to be made perfect by the 
flesh." 4 * 

CHAPTER XVIII 

105. Some, then, as we have shown, 49 have tried to go beyond 
what is right and the concord that marks salvation which is holy 

30 Isa. 40:6-8. 40 Eph. 1:22; 5:23. 41 Isa. 53:2. 

42 Prov. 13:12. 4 3 Cf. Strom., Ill, 81. 44 Gen. 2:9. 

45 Gen. 2:9; 3:22. 46 Strom., Ill, 96. 47 I Cor. 15:50. 

48 GaL 3:3. 49 Strom., Ill, 40. 



gO CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

and established. They have blasphemously accepted the ideal 
of continence for reasons entirely godless. Celibacy may law- 
fully be chosen according to the sound rule with godly reasons, 
provided that the person gives thanks for the grace God has 
granted, 50 and does not hate the creation or reckon married 
people to be of no account. For the world is created: celibacy is 
also created. Let both give thanks for their appointed state, if 
they know to what state they are appointed. But others have 
kicked over the traces and waxed wanton, having become in- 
deed "wild horses who whinny after their neighbour's wives." 51 
They have abandoned themselves to lust without restraint and 
persuade their neighbours to live licentiously; as wretches they 
follow the Scripture: "Cast your lot in with us; let us all have a 
common purse and let our moneybag be one." 52 

1 06. On account of them the same prophet gives us advice 
saying: "Go not in the way with them, withdraw thy foot from 
their steps. For not unjustly are nets spread out to catch birds; 
for they are guilty of bloodshed and treasure up evil for them- 
selves" 53 that is, they seek for immorality and teach their 
neighbours to do the same. According to the prophet they are 
"fighters struck with their own tails" 54 (ourai), to which the 
Greeks give the name kerkoi. Those to whom the prophecy refers 
might well be lustful, incontinent, men who fight with their 
tails, children of darkness 55 and wrath, bloodstained suicides 
and murderers of their neighbours. "Purify out the old leaven, 
that you may be a new lump," 56 cries the apostle to us. And 
again in anger at such people he directs that we should "have no 
fellowship with any one called a brother if he is a fornicator or 
covetous man or idolater or reviler or drunkard or robber; with 
such a man one ought not even to eat." 57 "For I through the 
law am dead to the law," he says, "that I may live unto God. I 
am crucified with Christ; it is no longer I that live," meaning 
that I used to live according to my lusts, "but Christ lives in 
me," and I am pure and blessed by obeying the command- 
ments; so that whereas at one time I lived in the flesh carnally, 
"the life which I now live in the flesh I live by faith in the Son 
of God." 5 * 

107. "Go into no way of the heathen and enter no city of 
the Samaritans," 59 says the Lord, to keep us away from society 

so Cf. I Cor. 7:7. si Jer. 5:8. _ 52 p rov . 1:14. 

53 Prov. 1:15-18, 54 The origin of the quotation is unknown. 

55 Eph. 2:3. 56 I Cor. 5:7. 57 I Cor. 5:11. 

5 * Gal. 2:19-20. 59 Matt. 10:5. 



ON MARRIAGE gi 

contrary to his will. "For the end of the lawless man is evil. And 
these are the ways of all those who do lawless deeds." 60 "Woe to 
that man," the Lord says, "it were well for him if he had never 
been born, than that he should cause one of my little ones to 
stumble. It were better for him that a millstone were hung about 
him and he cast into the sea than that he should pervert one of 
my elect." 61 "For the name of God is blasphemed because of 
them." 62 Therefore the apostle nobly says, "I wrote to you in 
my letter to have no company with fornicators," as far as the 
words "but the body is not for fornication but for the Lord, and 
the Lord for the body." And to show that he does not regard 
marriage as fornication he goes on: "Do you not know that he 
who is joined to a harlot is one body with her?" 63 Or who will 
assert that before she is married a virgin is a harlot? "And do 
not deprive one another," he says, "except by agreement for a 
time," indicating by the word "deprive" the obligation of mar- 
riage, procreation, which he has set forth in the preceding pas- 
sage where he says: "Let the husband give the wife her due and 
likewise also the wife to the husband." 64 

1 08. In fulfilling this obligation she is a helpmeet in the house 
and in Christian faith. And the apostle expresses the same point 
even more clearly as follows: "To the married I direct, yet not 
I but the Lord, that the wife be not separated from her husband 
(and if she is separated, let her remain unmarried or be recon- 
ciled to her husband) and that the husband should not leave his 
wife. But to the rest I say, not the Lord: If any brother . . .," 
down to the words "but now are they holy." 65 What have they 
to say to these words, these people who disparage the law and 
speak as if marriage were only conceded by the law and is not 
also in accord with the New Testament? What reply to these 
directions have those who recoil from intercourse and birth? For 
he also lays down that the bishop who is to rule the Church must 
be a man who governs his own household well. A household 
pleasing to the Lord consists of a marriage with one wife. 66 

109. "To the pure," he says, "all things are pure: but to the 
defiled and unbelieving nothing is pure, but their mind and con- 
science are polluted." 67 With reference to illicit indulgence he 

60 Prov. i:i8f. 

61 The gospel sayings (Matt, 26: 24; i8:6; Mark 9:42; Luke 17:2) are 
quoted from I Clement, 46:8. 62 Rom. 2:24. 

63 I Cor. 5:9; 6:13, 16. Cf. Strom., Ill, 49. 64 I Cor. 7:5, 3. 

65 I Cor. 7:10-12, 14. 66 Cf. I Tim. 3:2-4; Titus 1:6; Strom., Ill, 79, 90. 
67 Titus 1:15. 



02 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

says: "Make no mistake: neither fornicators nor idolaters nor 
adulterers nor effeminate men nor homosexuals nor covetous 
men nor robbers nor drunkards nor revilers nor thieves shall 
inherit the kingdom of God. And we/ 5 who used to indulge in 
such practices, "have washed ourselves." 68 But they have a puri- 
fication, with a view to committing this immorality; their bap- 
tism means passing from self-control to fornication. They main- 
tain that one should gratify the lusts and passions, teaching that 
one must turn from sobriety to be incontinent. They set their 
hope on their private parts. 69 Thus they shut themselves out of 
God's kingdom and deprive themselves of enrolment as dis- 
ciples, 70 and under the name of knowledge, falsely so called, 
they have taken the road to outer darkness. 71 'Tor the rest, 
brethren, whatever is true, whatever is holy, whatever is right- 
eous, whatever is pure, whatever is attractive, whatever is well 
spoken of, whatever is virtuous, and whatever is praiseworthy, 
think on these things. And whatever you have learnt and re- 
ceived and heard and seen in me, this do. And the God of peace 
shall be with you." 72 

no. And Peter in his epistle says the same: "So that your 
faith and hope may be in God, because you have purified your 
souls in obedience to the truth," 73 "as obedient children, not 
behaving after the fashion of the lusts in which in your ignorance 
you formerly indulged; but as he who has called you is holy, so 
also must you be holy in all your conduct; as it is written, Be ye 
holy for I am holy." 74 

But our polemic, though necessary against those who mas- 
querade under the false name of knowledge, has carried us be- 
yond the limit and made our discussion lengthy. Accordingly 
this is the end of our third miscellany of gnostic notes in accord- 
ance with the true philosophy. 

I Cor. 6:9-11. 69 Phil. 3:19. 70 Cf. Rev. 20:12, 15; 21:27. 

7i Cf. Matt. 8:12. 72 Phil. 4:8 f. 73 I p et er 1:21 f. 

74 I Peter 1:14-16 (Lev. 11:44; 19:2; 20:7). 



On Spiritual Perfection 
Miscellanies., Book VII 1 

THE TEXT 
CHAPTER I 

i. It is now time for us to prove to the Greeks that the gnostic 
alone is truly devout, so that the philosophers, learning what 
sort of person the true Christian is, may condemn their own 
folly for their careless and indiscriminate persecution of the 
name of Christian, while they irrationally abuse as atheists those 
who have the knowledge of the true God. And in addressing 
philosophers I think one should employ ratiocination as more 
convincing, since they are better trained to understand it from 
their previous course of instruction, even if they have not yet 
shown themselves worthy to participate in the power to believe. 
Of the sayings of the prophets 2 we will make no mention at pre- 
sent, intending hereafter to avail ourselves of the Scriptures on 
the fitting occasions. For the present we will only give a sum- 
mary indication of what is declared by them, in the form of a 
sketch of the Christian religion, in order that we may not break 
the thread of the discourse by constant references to the Scrip- 
tures, especially when addressing those who do not yet under- 
stand their phraseology. When we have shown their general 
purport, the exhibition of the testimonies shall be superadded 
afterwards on their believing. And if our words seem to some of 
the uninstructed to be different from the Lord's Scriptures, let 
them know that it is from the Scriptures that they draw their 
life and breath, and that it is their object, taking these as their 
starting-point, to set forth, not their phraseology, but their 
meaning only. For further elaboration being unseasonable 
would with good reason seem superfluous, while on the other 
hand it would be a very careless and unsatisfactory way of 

1 The translation of Book VII is that of J. B. Mayor, revised. 

2 I.e., the Scriptures as a whole (so often in Clement). 

93 



94 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

treating the subject if we were to omit all consideration of that 
which is of pressing importance. And blessed indeed are they 
who search out the testimonies of the Lord: with their whole 
heart they will seek him. 3 Now they which testify of the Lord 
are the law and the prophets. 4 

2. It is our business then to prove that the gnostic alone is 
holy and pious, worshipping the true God as befits him; and the 
worship which befits God includes both loving God and being 
loved by him. To the gnostic every kind of pre-eminence seems 
honourable in proportion to its worth. In the world of sense 
rulers and parents and elders generally are to be honoured; in 
matters of teaching, the most ancient philosophy and the earliest 
prophecy; in the spiritual world, that which is elder in origin, 
the Son, the beginning and first-fruit of all existing things, him- 
self timeless and without beginning; from whom the gnostic 
believes that he receives the knowledge of the ultimate cause, 
the Father of the universe, the earliest and most beneficent of all 
existences, no longer reported byword of mouth, but worshipped 
and adored, as is his due, with silent worship and holy awe; who 
was manifested indeed by the Lord so far as it was possible for 
the learners to understand, but apprehended by those whom the 
Lord has elected for knowledge., those, says the apostle, who 
have their senses exercised. 5 

3. The gnostic therefore pays service to God by his constant 
self-discipline and by cherishing that which is divine in himself 
in the way of unremitting charity. For as regards the service of 
men, part may be classed as meliorative treatment and part as 
ministrative service. Thus the medicinal art is meliorative of the 
body and philosophy of the soul; but that which parents receive 
from children and rulers from subjects is ministrative aid. 
Similarly in the Church the meliorative service is imaged in the 
presbyters, the ministrative in the deacons. As both these ser- 
vices are performed by the ministering angels for God in their 
administration of earthly things, so they are also performed by 
the gnostic himself, while on the one hand he serves God, and 
on the other hand sets forth his meliorative philosophy to men, 
in whatsoever way he may be appointed to instruct them with a 
view to their improvement. For he alone is truly devout who 
ministers to God rightly and unblameably in respect to human 
affairs. For, as the best treatment of plants is that whereby the 
fruits grow and are gathered in by the science and art of hus- 

3 Ps. 119 (118).% I Peter 1:10. 

4 John 5:39, Rom. 3:21 (cf. Acts 10:43). 8 & e b 5214. 



ON SPIRITUAL PERFECTION 95 

bandry, supplying to men the benefit derived from the fruits; so 
the best ingathering which the devoutness of the gnostic can 
accomplish by means of his art is the appropriation of the fruits 
of all who have come to believe through him, as one after an- 
other becomes possessed of knowledge and is thus brought into 
the way of salvation. And if by godliness we understand the 
habit of mind which preserves the fitting attitude towards God, 6 
then the godly alone is dear to God. And such would be he who 
knows what is fitting both in theory and in life, as to how one 
should live who will one day become god, aye and is even now 
being made like to God. 7 

4. Thus he is before all things a lover of God. For as he who 
honours his father is a lover of his father, so he who honours 
God is a lover of God. Hence too the gnostic faculty seems to me 
to reveal itself in three achievements: (i) in the knowledge of 
the facts of the Christian religion, (2) in the accomplishment of 
whatever the Word enjoins, (3) in the capacity to impart to 
others after a godly manner the hidden things of truth. How 
then can he who is convinced that God is almighty, and who has 
learnt the divine mysteries from his only-begotten Son how 
can such an one be an atheist? An atheist is one who does not be- 
lieve in the existence of God, while we call by the name of super- 
stitious him who fears the demons and who deifies everything 
down to stocks and stones, having brought into slavery the 
spirit and the inner man which lives in accordance with reason. 

CHAPTER II 

5. The first proof that one knows God, after one has put con- 
fidence in the Saviour's teaching, is that one in no way does 
wrong, in the conviction that this befits the knowledge of God. 
Thus the most excellent thing on earth is the most devout of men, 
and the most excellent in heaven is the angel, who is nearer in 
place to the deity and already more purely participant of the 
eternal and blessed life. But most perfect and most holy of all, 
most sovereign, most lordly, most royal, and most beneficent, is 
the nature of the Son, which approaches most closely to the One 
Almighty Being. The Son is the highest pre-eminence, which 
sets in order all things according to the Father's will, 8 and steers 
the universe aright, performing all things with unwearying 
energy, beholding the Father's secret thoughts through his 

e A Stoic definition. 7 Plato, Thsaet., 176 A, B. 

s Matt. 7:21; 12:50; John 6:40, 



96 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

working. For the Son of God never moves from his watchtower, 9 
being never divided, never dissevered, never passing from place 
to place, but existing everywhere at all times and free from all 
limitations. He is all reason, all eye, all light from the Father, 
seeing all things, hearing all things, 10 knowing all things, with 
power searching the powers. To him is subjected the whole 
army of angels and of gods to him, the Word of the Father, 
who has received the holy administration by reason of him who 
subjected it to him; n through whom also all men belong to him, 
but some by way of knowledge, 12 while others have not yet 
attained to this; some as friends, 13 some as faithful servants, 14 
others as servants merely. 

6. This is the Teacher who educates the gnostic by means of 
mysteries, and the believer by means of good hopes, and him 
who is hard of heart with corrective discipline acting on the 
senses. He is the source of Providence both for the individual 
and the community and for the universe at large. And that 
there is a Son of God, and that this Son is the Saviour and Lord 
that we assert him to be, is directly declared by the divine pro- 
phecies. Thus the Lord of all, whether Greek or barbarian, uses 
persuasion to those who are willing; for it is not his way to com- 
pel one who is able of himself to obtain salvation by the exercise 
of free choice and by fulfilling all that is required on his part 15 so 
as to lay hold on the hope. 16 This is he who bestows on the 
Greeks also their philosophy through the inferior angels. For by 
an ancient and divine ordinance angels are assigned to the dif- 
ferent nations; but to be the Lord's portion 17 is the glory of the 
believers. Here we have the following alternatives: either the 
Lord cares not for all men which might arise from incapacity 
(but this it is forbidden to say, for incapacity is a mark of weak- 
ness), or from want of will on the part of one possessed with 
power (but such an affection is incompatible with goodness; in 
any case he who for our sake took upon him our flesh with its 
capacity for suffering is not rendered indifferent to others' sor- 
row by self-indulgence) or he has regard for us all, which also 
beseems him who was made the Lord of all. For he is the Saviour 
not of one here and another there, but, to the extent of each 
man's fitness, he distributed his own bounty both to Greeks and 

9 Plato, Polti. 272 E. 

10 .Xenophanes ap. Sock Emp., adv. Math., IX, 144. 
n Rom. 8:20. 12 Of. Rom. 10:2. is John 15:14, 15. 

K Heb. 3:5. 15 Plat 0> &p. 9 620 E. w Heb. 6:18. 

i? Deut 32:8, 9. 



ON SPIRITUAL PERFECTION 97 

to barbarians, and to the faithful and elect, 18 who were fore- 
ordained out of them and were called 19 in their own season. 
7. Neither again could envy be the impelling principle with 
him, who has called all alike, though he has assigned special 
honours to those who have shown special faith; nor could the 
Lord of all be hindered by opposition from without, especially 
when he is carrying out the will of the good and almighty 
Father. 20 No, as the Lord himself is absolutely inaccessible to 
envy, being eternally free from passion, so neither is man's state 
such as to be envied by the Lord. It is another who envies, who 
is also acquainted with passion. 21 Nor yet can it be said that the 
Lord from ignorance did not will to save mankind, because he 
knew not how to take care of each. For ignorance touches not 
the Son of God, who was the Father's counsellor 22 before the 
foundation of the world, 23 the Wisdom in which the Almighty 
God rejoicepl. 24 For the Son is the power of God, 25 as being the 
original Word of the Father, prior to all created things: and he 
might justly be styled the Wisdom of God 25 and the Teacher of 
those who were made by him. Neither indeed could he ever 
abandon his care for mankind through the distraction of any 
pleasure, seeing that, after he had taken upon him our flesh, 
which is by nature subject to passion, he trained it to a habit of 
impassibility. And how could he be Saviour and Lord, if he were 
not Saviour and Lord of all Saviour of those who have be- 
lieved, because they have determined to know, Lord of those 
who have been disobedient, until they have been enabled to 
confess their sins, and have received the grace which comes 
through him, in the way adapted and corresponding to their 
state? But all the activity of the Lord is referred to the Almighty, 
the Son being, so to speak, a certain activity of the Father. 

8. The Saviour then could never be a hater of men, seeing 
that it was owing to his abounding love for man that he scorned 
not the weakness of human flesh, but having clothed himself 
with it, has come into the world for the common salvation of 
men. For faith is common to all who choose it. No, nor could he 
ever neglect man, his peculiar work, seeing that into man alone 
of all animals has an idea of God been instilled at his creation. 
Neither could there be any better government of men, or one 
more consonant to the divine nature, than that which has been 

is Rev. 17:14. 19 Rev. 17:14. 20 Matt. 7:21; 12:50; John 6:40. 

21 I.e., the devil (cf. Wisdom of Solomon 2:124). 

22 Job 15:8; Isa. 40:13; Rom.n:34. 23 Eph. 1:4. 

24 Prov. 8:22-30. 25 I Cor. 1:24. 

A.C. 7 



98 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

ordained. At any rate it always belongs to him who is naturally 
superior to direct the inferior, and to him who is able to manage 
anything well, that he should have received the government of it 
as his due. But the true Ruler and Director is the Word of God 
and his Providence, superintending all things and neglecting the 
charge of none of her household. And such would be they who 
have chosen to attach themselves to the Word, viz., those who 
are being perfected through faith. Thus, by the will of the Al- 
might Father, 26 the Son, who is -the imperceptible power of 
primaeval motion, 27 is made the cause of all good things. For he 
was not seen in his true nature by those who could not appre- 
hend it owing to the infirmity of the flesh, but having taken upon 
him a body which could be seen and handled, he came into the 
world to reveal what was possible to man in the way of obedience 
to God's commandments. 

9. Being then the power of the Father, he easily prevails over 
whomsoever he will, not leaving even the smallest atom of his 
government uncared for: else the universe of his creation would 
have been no longer good. And I think the greatest power is 
shown where there is an inspection of all the parts, proceeding 
with minute accuracy even to the smallest, while all gaze on 28 
the supreme Administrator of the universe, as he pilots all in 
safety according to the Father's will, 29 rank being subordinated 
to rank under different leaders, till in the end the great High 
Priest 30 is reached. For on one original principle, which works 
in accordance with the Father's will, 29 depend the first and 
second and third gradations; 31 and then at the extreme end of 
the visible world there is the blessed ordinance of angels; and so, 
even down to ourselves, ranks below ranks are appointed, all 
saving and being saved by the initiation and through the instru- 
mentality of One. As then the remotest particle of iron is drawn 
by the influence of the magnet extending through a long series 
of iron rings, 32 so also through the attraction of the Holy Spirit 
the virtuous are adapted to the highest mansion, 33 and the 
others in their order even to the last mansion: but they that are 
wicked from weakness, having fallen into an evil habit owing to 
unrighteous greed, neither keep hold themselves nor are held by 
another, but collapse and fall to the ground, being entangled in 

26 Matt. 7:21; 12:50; John 6:40. 2? Plato, Leg., X, 897 A* 

28 Heb. 12:2, 29 See above, p. 95. 30 Heb. 4:14. 

31 Plato, Epist,, II, 312 E. For the idea, cf. A. O. Lovejoy, The Great Cham 
ofBdnz (1934). 

32 Ibid., Ion 9 533 D, E, 535 E, 536 A. 33 John 14:2. 



ON SPIRITUAL PERFECTION 99 

their passions. For^ this is the law from the beginning, that he 
who would have virtue must choose it. 

10. Wherefore also both the commandments according to the 
law and the commandments previous to the law, given to those 
who were not yet under law 34 for law is not enacted for a just 
man 35 ordained that he who chose should obtain eternal life 
and a blessed reward, and on the other hand permitted him who 
delighted^in wickedness to consort with what he chose. Again 
they ordained that the soul that at any time improved as regards 
the knowledge of virtue and increase in righteousness, should 
obtain an improved position in the universe, pressing onwards 36 
at every step to a passionless state, until it comes to a perfect 
man, 37 a pre-eminence at once of knowledge and of inheritance. 
These saving revolutions are each severally portioned off, ac- 
cording to the order of change, by variety of time and place and 
honour and knowledge and inheritance and service, up to the 
transcendent orbit which is next to the Lord, occupied in eternal 
contemplation. And that which is lovely has power to draw to 38 
the contemplation of itself every one who through love of know- 
ledge has applied himself wholly to contemplation. 

it. Therefore the commandments given by the Lord, both 
the former and the latter, all flow from one source, for neither 
did he negligently suffer those who lived before the law to be 
altogether without law, 3 ? nor on the other hand did he permit 
those who were ignorant of the barbarian (i.e., Jewish) philo- 
sophy to run wild. For, by giving to the Jews commandments 
and to the^ Greeks philosophy, he confined unbelief 40 until the 
period of his own presence on earth, in which every one who be- 
lieved not is without excuse. 41 For he leads men by both ways of 
advance, whether Greek or barbarian, to the perfection which 
is through faith. But if any of the Greeks dispenses with the pre- 
liminary guidance of the Greek philosophy and hastens straight 
to the true teaching, he, even though he be unlearned, at once 
distances all competition, having chosen the short-cut to per- 
fection, viz., that of salvation through faith. 42 

1 2 . Accordingly he made all things to be helpful for virtue, in 
so far as might be without hindering the freedom of man's 
choice, and showed them to be so, in order that he who is indeed 
the One Alone Almighty might, even to those who can only see 

34 I Cor. 9:21. *5 I Tim. i :g 3<s phiL 3:14. 

37 Eph. 4:13. 38 Plato, Rep., 525; Symp., 204 CL 

& I Cor. 9:21. 40 Rom. 11:32; Gal. 3:19-24. 

41 Rom. 1:20. 42 Eph. 2:8. 



100 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

darkly, be in some way revealed as a good God, a Saviour from 
age to age through the instrumentality of his Son, and in all 
ways absolutely guiltless of evil. 43 For by the Lord of the uni- 
verse all things are ordered both generally and particularly with 
a view to the safety of the whole. It is the work then of saving 
righteousness always to promote the improvement of each ac- 
cording to the possibilities of the case. For the lesser things also 
are managed with a view to the safety and continuance of the 
superior in accordance with their own characters. For instance, 
whatever is possessed of virtue changes to better habitations, 
the cause of the change being that independent choice of know- 
ledge with which the soul was gifted to begin with; but those 
who are more hardened 44 are constrained to repent by neces- 
sary chastisements, inflicted either through the agency of the 
attendant angels or through various preliminary judgments or 
through the great and final judgment, by the goodness of the 
great Judge whose eye is ever upon us. 

CHAPTER III 

13. As to the rest I keep silent, 45 giving glory to God: only I say 
that those gnostic souls are so carried away by the magnificence 
of the vision that they cannot confine themselves within the lines 
of the constitution by which each holy degree is assigned and in 
accordance with which the blessed abodes of the gods have been 
marked out and allotted; but being counted as holy among the 
holy, 46 and translated absolutely and entirely to another sphere, 
they keep on always moving to higher and yet higher regions, 
until they no longer greet 47 the divine vision in or by means of 
mirrors, 48 but for loving hearts feast for ever on the uncloying, 
never-ending sight, radiant in its transparent clearness, while 
throughout the endless ages they taste a never-wearying delight, 
and thus continue, all alike honoured with an identity of pre- 
eminence. This is the apprehensive vision of the pure in heart. 49 
This, therefore, is the life-work of the perfected gnostic, viz., to 
hold communion with God through the great High Priest, 50 be- 
ing made like the Lord, as far as may be, by means of all his 
service towards God, a service which extends to the salvation of 
men by his solicitous goodness towards us and also by public 

43 Plato, Rep., 617 E; Tim., 42 D. 44 Eph. 4:19. 
45 Cf. Euripides, Iphigeneia in Tauris, 37. 46 Isa. 57:15. 

47 Heb. 11:13, 48 I Cor- 13:12. 49 Matt. 5:8. 

so Heb. 4:14. 



ON SPIRITUAL PERFECTION IOI 

worship and by teaching and active kindness. Aye, and in being 
thus assimilated to God 5 5i the gnostic is making and fashioning 
himself and also forming those who hear him, while, so far as 
may be, he assimilates to that which is by nature free from pas- 
sion that which has been subdued by training to a passionless 
state^: and^ this he effects by undisturbed intercourse and com- 
munion with the Lord. 52 Of this gnostic assimilation the canons, 
as it appears to me, are gentleness, kindness and a noble 
devoutness. 

14. These virtues I affirm to be an acceptable sacrifice with 
God, 53 as the Scripture declares that the unboastful heart joined 
with a right understanding is a perfect offering to God, 54 since 
every man who is won over for holiness is enlightened into an 
indissoluble unity. For both the Gospel and the apostle com- 
mand us to bring ourselves into capitivity 55 and put ourselves 
to death, 56 slaying the old man which is being corrupted accord- 
ing to its lusts 5 7 and raising up the new man 58 from the death of 
our old perversion, laying aside our passions and becoming free 
from sin. This it was which was signified also by the law when it 
commanded that the sinner should be put to death, 59 viz., the 
change from death to life, that is, the "apathy" which comes 
from faith. But the expounders of the law, not understanding 
this, took the law to be jealous, and have thus given a handle to 
those who without ground endeavour to discredit it. 

It is for this reason that we fitly refrain from making any 
sacrifice to God, who has provided all things for all, being him- 
self in need of nothing; but we glorify him who was consecrated 
for us, by consecrating ourselves also to ever higher degrees of 
freedom from want and from passion. For God takes pleasure 
only in our salvation. Fitly therefore do we abstain from offering 
sacrifice to him who cannot be swayed by pleasures, bearing in 
mind also that the smoke of the sacrifice reaches those whom it 
does reach, i.e., the demons, in some low region far beneath the 
densest clouds. 

I 5- .The Divine Nature then is neither wanting in anything 
nor is it fond of pleasure or gain or money, being of itself full and 
affording all things to every creature which is in need. Nor again 
is the Divine Nature propitiated by sacrifices or offerings or by 
glory and honour, nor is it allured by such things: it shows itself 
to the virtuous alone, who would never betray justice either on 

5i Plato, Rep., X, 613 B. 52 I Cor. 7:35. 53 Phil. 4:18. 

54 Ps. 51(50)116, 17. 55 II Cor. 10:5. 56 Matt. 16:25. 

57 Eph. 4:22. 58 Eph. 4:24. 59 Deut. 13:8, 9; Ezek. 18:4, 



102 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

account of threatened terrors or from a promise of greater gifts. 
Those however who have not observed the freedom of man's 
spirit and its unfettered action in respect to choice of life, chafe 
at what is done by unchastened injustice, and disbelieve in the 
existence of God. Like to them in opinion are they who, from 
their incontinence in pleasure, being involved both in cross 
accidents and pains out of the common course, and losing heart 
at their calamities, say that there is no God, or that, if he exists, 
he is not the overseer of all. Another class consists of those who 
are persuaded that the gods of common belief are to be pro- 
pitiated with sacrifices and gifts, being accomplices, so to speak, 
in men's own wickednesses, and who are even unwilling to 
believe that he alone is the true God who is unchangeably the 
same in his just beneficence. 60 

1 6. We are justified therefore in ascribing piety to the gnostic, 
whose care is first for himself and then for his neighbours with a 
view to our attaining the highest standard of excellence. For so 
the son tries to please a good father by showing himself virtuous 
and like his father, and likewise the subject to please a good 
ruler; since belief and obedience are in our own power. But the 
cause of evils one might find in the weakness of matter, and the 
random impulses of ignorance and the irrational forces to which 
we fall victims from our incapacity to learn; whereas the gnostic 
gets the better of these wild elements by his learning, and bene- 
fits all who are willing, to the best of his power, in imitation of 
the divine purpose for men. Should he ever be placed in author- 
ity, he will rule, like Moses, with a view to the salvation of his 
subjects, and will quell what is savage and faithless by showing 
honour to the best, and by punishing the bad, punishment that 
is rightly classed under the head of education. For above all 
things, the soul of the just man is an image divine, made like to 
God himself, 61 seeing that in it is enshrined and consecrated, by 
means of obedience to his commands, the Ruler of all mortals 
and immortals, the King and Parent of all that is noble, who is 
indeed Law and Ordinance and Eternal Word, the one Saviour 
both for each individually and for all in common. He is in truth 
the Only-begotten, 62 the express image of the glory 63 of the 
universal King and almighty Father, stamping on the mind of 
the gnostic the perfect vision after his own image; so that the 
divine image is now beheld in a third embodiment, assimilated 
as far as possible to the Second Cause, to him 5 namely, who is 

<s Cf. Plato, Laws, 885 B, 907 A, 908 BG. 

6i Nauck, Fragm, Trag. 688. "John 1:18. Heb. 1:3. 



ON SPIRITUAL PERFECTION IO3 

the Life indeed, 64 owing to whom we live the true life, copying 
the example of him who is made to us knowledge, 65 while 
we converse with the things which are stable and altogether 
unchangeable. 

1 7. Being ruler therefore of himself and of all that belongs to 
him the gnostic makes a genuine approach to truth, having a 
firm hold of divine science. For the name science would fitly be 
given to the knowledge and firm hold 66 of intellectual objects. 
Its function in regard to divine things is to investigate what is the 
First Cause and what that through which all things were made 
and without which nothing has been made, 67 what are the 
things that hold the universe together partly as pervading it and 
partly as encompassing it, some in combination and some apart, 
and what is the position of each of these, and the capacity and 
the service contributed by each: and again in things concerning 
man, to investigate what he himself is, and what is in accord- 
ance with, or is opposed to his nature; how it becomes him to 
act and be acted on, and what are his virtues and vices, and 
about things good and evil and the intermediates, and all that 
has to do with manhood and prudence and temperance, and the 
supreme all-perfect virtue, justice. Prudence and justice he em- 
ploys for the acquisition of wisdom, and manhood not only in 
enduring misfortunes, but also in controlling pleasure and de- 
sire and pain and anger, and generally in withstanding all that 
sways the soul either by force or guile. For we must not endure 
vices and things that are evil, but must cast them off, and 
reserve endurance for things that cause fear. At any rate even 
suffering is found to be useful alike in medicine and in education 
and in punishment, and by means of it characters are improved 
for the benefit of mankind. 

1 8. Forms of manhood are fortitude, high-spirit, mag- 
nanimity, generosity, magnificence. It is owing to this that the 
gnostic takes no notice either of blame or of ill-repute from the 
world, nor is he in subjection to good opinions or flatteries of 
others. In the endurance of labours he shows himself amongst 
other men as a man indeed, being always occupied in some good 
work at the same time that he is manfully surmounting diffi- 
culties of every kind. Again he is temperate owing to his abiding 
good sense 68 combined with tranquillity of soul; his readiness to 
take to himself the promises as his own being in proportion to his 

4 I Tim. 6:19. <*5 I Cor. 1:30; Col. 2:2, 3. 

M Sext. Emp., Adv. Math., VII, 151. 7 John 1:3. 

68 Gf. Plato, Cm/., 41 1 E; Aristotle, Eth. JV., VI, 5 (i 140 b, u). 



104 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

shrinking from base things as alien. He is a citizen of the world, 
and not of this world only, but of a higher order, doing all 
things in order and degree, and never misbehaving in any re- 
spect. Rich he is in the highest degree because he covets nothing, 
having few wants and enjoying a super-abundance of every 
good, owing to his knowledge of the absolute Good. The first 
effect of his justice is that he loves to be with those of kindred 
spirit, and to commune with them, both on earth and in 
heaven. 

19. For this reason also he is ready to impart to others of all 
that he possesses: and being a lover of men he has a profound 
hatred of the wicked through his abhorrence of every kind of 
evil doing, having learnt that one should be faithful both to one- 
self and to one's neighbours, as well as obedient to the command- 
ments. For he who is willingly led on by the commandments 
may be called God's servant; 69 but he who is already pure in 
heart, 70 not because of the commandments, but for the sake of 
knowledge by itself that man is a friend of God. For neither 
are we born virtuous, nor is virtue a natural after-growth, as are 
some parts of the body (for then it would have been no longer 
voluntary or praiseworthy) ; nor yet is it acquired and perfected, 
as speech is, from the intercourse of those who live with us (for it 
is rather vice which originates in this way) . Nor again is know- 
ledge derived from any art connected with the supplies of life or 
the service of the body, nor yet from the ordinary course of 
instruction: for we might be well satisfied if this could but pre- 
pare and sharpen the soul. The laws of the state, it is true, might 
perhaps be able to restrain evil practices. 20. Again, mere per- 
suasive arguments are too superficial in their nature to establish 
the truth on scientific grounds, but Greek philosophy does, as it 
were, provide for the soul the preliminary cleansing and training 
required for the reception of the faith, on which foundation the 
truth builds up the edifice of knowledge. 

Here it is we find the true wrestler, who in the amphi- 
theatre of this fair universe is crowned for the true victory over 
all his passions. For the president is God Almighty, and the um- 
pire is the only-begotten Son of God, and the spectators are 
angels and gods, and our great contest of all arms is not waged 
against flesh and blood, but against the spiritual powers 71 of 
passionate affections working in the flesh. When he has come 
safe out of these mighty conflicts, and overthrown the tempter in 
the combats to which he has challenged us 3 the Christian soldier 
* Cf. John 15:15. 70 Matt. 5:8. vi Eph. 6:12. 



ON SPIRITUAL PERFECTION 105 

wins immortality. For the decision of God is unerring in regard 
to his most righteous award. The spectators then have been sum- 
moned to view the contest; the wrestlers are contending in the 
arena, and now the prize is won by him amongst them, who has 
been obedient to the orders of the trainer. For the conditions 
laid down by God are equal for all, and no blame can attach to 
him; but he who is able will choose, 72 and he who wills prevails. 
It is on this account also that we have received the gift of reason, 
in order that we may know what we do. And the maxim "Know 
thyself" 73 means in this case, to know for what purpose we are 
made. Now we are made to be obedient to the commandments, 
if our choice be such as to will salvation. This, I think, is the 
real Adrasteia, owing to which we cannot escape from God. 74 

21. Man's work then is submission to God, who has made 
known a manifold salvation by means of commandments, and 
man's acknowledgment thereof is God's good-pleasure. For the 
benefactor is the first to begin the kindness, and he who accepts 
it heartily, keeping due reckoning, and observes the command- 
ments such an one is faithful; but he who goes on to return the 
kindness to the best of his power by means of love, rises to the 
dignity of friend. And the one most appropriate return from 
man is to do those things which are pleasing to God. Accord- 
ingly the Master and Saviour accepts as a favour and honour to 
himself all that is done for the help and improvement of men, as 
being his own creation and in a certain respect an effect akin to 
its Cause; just as he accepts the wrongs done to those who have 
believed upon him, regarding such wrongs as instances of in- 
gratitude and dishonour to himself. 75 For what other dishonour 
could affect God? Wherefore it is impossible for so great a gift to 
make a return in full, corresponding to the benefit received 
from God, as measured by the worth of salvation. But, as they 
who injure the cattle put a slight on the owners, and those who 
injure the soldiers put a slight on their captain, so it shows dis- 
respect for the Lord, when injury is done to those who are de- 
voted to him. For as the sun not only lights up the heaven and 
the whole world, shining on land and sea alike, but also darts 
his rays through windows and every little cranny into the inner- 
most chambers, so the Word being shed abroad in all directions 
observes even the minutest details of our actions. 

72 Plato, Rep., 617 E. 

73 Chilon, op. Stob. Antk., Ill, 79, 

74 A Stoic etymological explanation of Adrasteia (= inescapable necessity). 

75 Gf. Matt. 25:34 if. 



I06 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

CHAPTER IV 

22. But the Greeks assume their gods to be human In passions 
as they are human in shape; and, as each nation paints their 
shape after its own likeness (according to the saying of Xeno- 
phanes, the Ethiopians black with turned up nose, the Thracians 
with red hair and blue eyes), 76 so each represents them as like 
itself in soul. For instance, the barbarians make them brutal and 
savage, the Greeks milder, but subject to passion. Hence the 
conceptions which the wicked form about God must naturally 
be bad, and those of the good must be excellent. And on this 
account he who is a gnostic and truly royal in soul 77 is both de- 
vout and free from superstition, persuaded that the only God is 
alone meet to be honoured and reverenced, alone glorious and 
beneficent, abounding in well-doing, the author of all good and 
of nothing that is evil. 78 As for the superstitions of the Greeks I 
think sufficient evidence has been adduced in my discourse en- 
titled Protrepticus, where the necessary investigation is given at 
great length. 

23. What need is there then "the tale once clearly told to tell 
again"? 79 But as we are on this topic it will be enough just to 
give a small sample for proof, with a view to show that those are 
atheists who liken the Divinity to the worst of men. For either 
they make the gods injured by men, which would show them to 
be inferior to man as being capable of receiving injury from him; 
or, if this is not so, how is it that they are embittered at what is 
no injury, like an old shrew losing her temper, as they say 
Artemis was wroth with the Aetolians on account of Oeneus? 
Being a goddess, how did she fail to reflect that it was not from 
contempt for her, but either from forgetfulness, 80 or because he 
had previously sacrificed, that he neglected her worship? Again, 
Auge, in pleading against Athena, because she was wroth with 
her for having given birth to a child in her temple, well says: 

Spoils of dead mortals thou delight'st to sec 
And corpses strewn: these thou dost not abhor; 
But this new birth thou deem'st a sacrilege. 81 

And yet no fault is found with other animals when they bring 
forth in the temples. 82 

7<s Frag. 16 Diels. 77 Plato, Pktleb., 30 D. 

7 Plato, Rep., 379 B. 79 Homer, Odyssey, XII, 453, 

so Homer, Iliad, IX, 533. i Euripides, Frag. 268, Nauck, 

82 An opinion of the Stoic Chrysippus (Plutarch, Mor., 1045 A). 



ON SPIRITUAL PERFECTION 107 

24. In their dealings therefore with beings who are so quick 
to wrath men naturally become superstitious, and think that 
whatever happens is a sign and cause of evil. "If a mouse digs 
through an altar of clay or gnaws through a sack for want of 
something better, or if a cock that is being fattened begins to 
crow in the evening, they take it as a portent of something. 3383 
Menander ridicules a fellow of this stamp in his play entitled 
The Superstitious Man.* 4 "Heaven send me good luck! In putting 
on my right shoe I broke the thong. Of course you did, you 
noodle, because it was worn out, and you were too miserly to 
buy a new pair." That was a pleasant saying of Antiphon's, 85 
when one made an omen of a sow's devouring her young: seeing 
that the sow was a mere skeleton from her owner's niggardliness, 
"Well for you," said he, "that the omen did not take the form of 
her devouring your own children in her hunger." And, "What 
wonder is it," says Bion, "if the mouse, finding nothing to eat, 
gnawed through the sack? The wonder would have been if, as 
Arcesilaus 86 jestingly retorted, the sack had eaten the mouse." 8 7 

25. Excellent too was the reply of Diogenes to him who mar- 
velled because he found the snake coiled round the pestle. 
"Marvel not," said he, "for it would have been far more sur- 
prising if you had seen the snake erect and the pestle coiled up 
round it." 88 For the irrational animals too have to run and eat 
and fight and breed and die; and these things being according 
to nature for them can never be unnatural for us. "Moreover 
many birds beneath the sunlight range," 89 from which omens 
may be derived. Follies of this sort are caricatured by the comic 
poet Philemon. 90 "When I behold," says he, "a slave on the 
watch to see who sneezes, or who speaks, or who comes out of 
his house, I offer him at once to the first bidder. It is to himself 
that each of us walks and speaks and sneezes, and not to all the 
city. Things happen as 'tis their nature to." And then we find 
them praying for health when sober, but bringing on diseases by 
cramming and drinking themselves drunk at the festivals. Many 
too have a superstitious fear of the mottoes that are written up. 

26. It was a witty remark of Diogenes, when he found the 
house of a man of bad character bearing the inscription, "Here 

83 Kock, Com. Alt. Frag., Ill, 471. * Ibid., 33. 

8s Antiphon, Test., 8, Diels. 86 Founder of the Middle Academy. 

87 Bion of Borysthenes,yr0g. 45, Mullach. 

88 Diogenes, frag. 282, Mullach. 89 Homer, Odyssey, II, 181. 
*> Kock, Com. Att. Fr., II, p. 5 10. For sneezing as an omen, see A S. Pease's 

Commentary on Cicero, de Divinatione, II, 40:8. 



IO8 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

dwells the victorious Heracles: let no wickedness enter": "How 
then," said he, "is the master of the house to enter?" 91 And the 
same people worship every stock and every shining stone, as the 
phrase is, and are in awe of red wool and grains of salt and 
torches and squills and brimstone, being bewitched by the sor- 
cerers according to certain impure purifications. But the true 
God regards nothing as holy but the character of the just man, 
nothing as polluted but what is unjust and wicked. At any rate 
you may see the eggs, which have been removed from the body 
of those who have undergone purification, hatched by warmth, 
and this could not have happened, if they had contracted the 
ills of the person purified. 92 And so the comic poet Diphilus 93 
pleasantly satirizes the sorcerers in these words: "He purifies the 
daughters of Proetus with their father, the son of Abas, and an 
old crone besides to make up five so many mortals with a 
single torch, a single squill, and brimstone and asphaltus of the 
boisterous surge, gathered from the deep pools of the soft-flowing 
ocean. 94 But, O blessed Air, send Anticyra 95 from heaven that I 
may change this bug to a stingless drone." 

27. Menander 96 too says well, "If you were suffering from 
any real evil, Pheidias, you ought to have sought a real remedy 
for it. But as that is not so, I have devised a remedy as imaginary 
as the evil: simply imagine that it does you some good. Let the 
women rub you down and fumigate thoroughly: then sprinkle 
yourself with water from three springs, throwing in salt and 
beans." Every one is pure whose conscience is free from guilt. 
So in the tragedy 97 we read: 

"Orestes, say, what canker saps thy life? 
Conscience, which tells me of a dark deed wrought." 

For indeed purity is no other than the abstaining from sin. 
Well therefore says Epicharmus, "If your mind is pure your 
whole body is pure too." 98 Certainly it is our rule to begin by 
cleansing our souls from bad and wicked opinions by means of 
right reason, and then, after that, to turn to the mention of the 
more excellent principles; for so too, in the case of those who are 
about to be initiated, it is thought right to apply certain puri- 

91 Diogenes, frag. 118, Mullach. Cf. Diog. Laertius 6:39, 50. 

92 For use of eggs for purification, cf. Juvenal 6:518, etc. 

s>3 Kock, Com. Att. Fr., II, 577. 94 Homer, Iliad, VII, 422. 

95 I,e., hellebore, which came from Anticyra. 

96 Kock, Com. Att. Fr., Ill, 152 seq. 

9i Euripides, Orest., 395. 98 Frag. 269, Kaibel. 



ON SPIRITUAL PERFECTION ICK) 

fications before the communication of the mysteries, on the 
ground that the godless opinion must be got rid of before they 
are ready to have the truth communicated to them." 

CHAPTER V 

28. Surely it cannot be denied that we are following right and 
truth when we refuse to circumscribe in a given place him who 
is incomprehensible, and to confine in temples made with hands 1 
that which contains all things. And what work of builders and 
masons and of mechanic art could be called holy? Were not they 
more in the right who held that the air and the circumambient 
ether, or rather the whole world and the universe itself, were 
worthy of the divine dignity? It would indeed be ridiculous, as 
the philosophers themselves say, that man being but a toy of 
God 2 should make God, and that God should come into being 
through the play 3 of human art. For that which is produced re- 
sembles, and is indeed the same as, that from which it is pro- 
duced: thus, what is made of ivory is ivory, and what is made of 
gold is golden; and in like manner statues and temples executed 
by the hands of mechanics, being composed of lifeless matter, 
must themselves also be lifeless and material and profane; and 
even though you should carry your art to perfection, they still 
retain something of the mechanical. This being so, we cannot 
regard works of art as sacred and divine. 

Again, among the heathen enshrinement is supposed to be 
essential to deity. 3 But what is it which could be localized in a 
shrine, if there is nothing unlocalized to start with (on the 
assumption that all things are in space)? And further, that which 
is enshrined has received enshrinement from something else, 
being itself previously unenshrined. If then God has received 
enshrinement from men, he was previously unenshrined and 
therefore non-existent. For by the hypothesis it is only the non- 
existent which was unenshrined, seeing that it is always the non- 
existent which undergoes the process of localization by en- 
shrinement. And that which exists could not be localized by 
that which is non-existent, nor yet by anything else that exists: 

w Cf. Celsus in Origen, contra Celsum, III, 59. 

i Acts 17:24. In this and the following paragraphs Clement seems to be 
following a sceptical argument, probably of Academic origin: if enshrine- 
ment is essential to the pagan god, that is evidence that the god does not 
exist. 2 Plato, Laws, 803 C, 889 C-E. 

3 Dedication ceremonies included elaborate magical rites to force the god 
to inhabit his shrine, Cf. Numenius 3 quoted by Origen, contra Celsum^V^ 38. 



110 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

for it is itself also in existence and therefore already localized in 
common with all other existing things. 29. It remains therefore 
that it must be enshrined by itself. But how is a thing to beget 
itself? Or how is the self-existent to localize itself in a shrine? 
Was it formerly unlocalized and did it afterwards localize itself? 
No, in that case it could not even have existed, since it is the 
non-existent which is unlocalized. And how could that which is 
supposed to have been localized make itself subsequently what 
it already was? Or that to which all existing things belong, the 
self-existent Deity, be itself in need of anything? 

Again, if the Deity is in human shape, he will need the same 
things as man needs, food and covering and a house and all 
things belonging to them. For beings of like form and like pas- 
sions will require the same kind of life. And if the word "holy" 
is taken in two senses, as applied to God himself and also to the 
building raised in his honour, surely we should be right in giving 
to the Church, which was instituted to the honour of God in 
accordance with sanctified wisdom, the name of a holy temple 
of God, that precious temple built by no mechanic art, no, nor 
embellished by any common vagabond, but made into a shrine 
by the will of God himself. I use the name Church now not of 
the place, but of the congregation of saints. This is the shrine 
which is best fitted for the reception of the greatness of the dig- 
nity of God. For to him who is all-worthy, or rather in com- 
parison with whom all else is worthless, there is consecrated that 
creature which is of great worth owing to its pre-eminent holi- 
ness. And such would be the gnostic, who is of great worth and 
precious in the sight of God, lie in whom God is enshrined, i.e., 
in whom the knowledge of God is consecrated. Here too we 
should find the likeness, the divine and sanctified image here 
in the righteous soul, after it has been itself blessed, as having 
been already purified and now performing blessed deeds. Here 
we find both that which is enshrined and that which is in pro- 
cess of enshrinement, the former in the case of those who are 
already gnostics, the latter in those who are capable of becoming 
so, though they may not yet be worthy to receive the knowledge 
of God. For all that is destined to believe is already faithful in 
the eye of God and consecrated to honour, an image of virtue 
dedicated to God. 

CHAPTER VI 

30. As then God is not circumscribed in place, nor made like to 
the form of any creature, so neither is he of like passions, nor 



ON SPIRITUAL PERFECTION III 

lacks he anything after the manner of created tilings, so as from 
hunger to desire sacrifices for food. Things that are capable of 
suffering are all mortal; and it is useless to offer meat to that 
which is in no need of sustenance. The famous comic poet 
Pherecrates in his Deserters* wittily represents the gods them- 
selves as finding fault with men for their offerings. "When you 
sacrifice to the gods, first of all you set apart what is customary 
for the priests first among you, and then shame to say do you 
not pick the thigh-bones clean to the groin and leave the hip- 
joint absolutely bare, assigning to us gods nothing but the dogs 3 
portion, a back-bone polished as with a file, which you then 
cover with thick layers of sacrificial meal to save appearances?" 
And another comic poet, Eubulus, writes as follows about the 
sacrifices: "To the gods themselves you offer nothing but the 
tail and the thigh, as though they were enamoured of these." 5 
And, where he brings on Dionysus in his Semele^ he represents 
him as distinguishing: "First of all, when any sacrifice to me, 
they sacrifice blood and bladder don't mention heart or caul 
the gall and thigh-bones are no food for me." 31, And Men- 
ander 7 has written of "the scrag end of the rump, the gall and 
dry bones, which," says he, "they set before the gods, while they 
consume the rest themselves." Why, the smoke of burnt sacri- 
fices is intolerable even to the beasts. If, however, this smoke is 
really the meed of the gods of Greece, no time should be lost in 
deifying the cooks also (since they are deemed worthy of the 
same happiness) and in worshipping the stove itself, when it 
becomes an altar closely connected with the precious smoke. 
Hesiod 8 somewhere says that: "Zeus, being outwitted in some 
division of the flesh of the sacrifice by Prometheus, chose the 
white bones of the ox craftily concealed in the glistening lard: 
and from that time the tribes of men on earth burn to the 
immortals white bones on fragrant altars." Still they altogether 
deny that God's partaking of nourishment could be explained 
by the craving which grows out of want. Accordingly they must 
suppose him nourished without appetite like plants or hibernat- 
ing bears. At all events they say that these are not impeded in 
their growth, whether it be that they are nourished from the 
density of the air, or even from the exhalation arising from their 
own body. And yet, if they hold that the Deity is nourished 
without needing it, what is the use of nourishment to one who 

* Cf. Kock, Com. Att* Frag., I, 151. 5 Kock, Com. Att. Frag,, II, 210. 

6 Ibid., 197. 7 Ibid., Ill, 39. 

Theog., 556. 



112 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

needs it not? But if the Deity, being by nature exempt from all 
need, rejoices to be honoured, we have good reason for honour- 
ing God by prayer, and for sending up most rightly this sacrifice, 
the best and holiest of sacrifices when joined with righteousness, 9 
venerating 10 him through whom we receive our knowledge, and 
through him glorifying him (i.e., the Father) whom we have 
learnt to know. At any rate our altar here on earth is the con- 
gregation of those who are devoted to the prayers, having, as it 
were 3 one common voice and one mind. 

As to the kinds of nutrition received through the sense of 
smell, though they may be less unworthy of the deity than those 
received through the mouth, still they witness to respiration. 
32. What then is the worshippers' idea as to the breathing of 
God? Is it by means of transpiration as in the demons? or by 
inspiration only, as in fishes through the dilatation of their gills? 
or by circumspiration, as in insects, through the pressure of the 
membranes on the waist? No, they would not liken God to any 
of these, if they were in their senses. But as for creatures that 
live by respiration, they draw in the air by rhythmic beats 
corresponding to the counter-dilatation of the lungs against the 
chest. Then if they assign viscera and arteries and veins and 
sinews and members to God, they will exhibit him as in no 
respect differing from man. The word "conspiration" is that 
which is properly used of the Church. For the Church's sacrifice 
is indeed speech rising, like incense, from holy souls, while every 
thought of the heart is laid open to God along with the sacrifice. 
They are fond of talking about the purity of the most ancient 
altar at Delos, that altar which, we are told, was the only one 
approached by Pythagoras, because it was unpolluted by 
slaughter and death: will they then refuse credence to us when 
we say that the truly hallowed altar is the righteous soul, and 
the incense which ascends from it, the prayer of holiness? Sacri- 
fices, I believe, are an invention of mankind to excuse the eating 
of flesh, though, even apart from such idolatry, it was always 
possible for one who wished it to partake of flesh. The Mosaic 
sacrifices symbolize Christian piety; for instance the dove and 
the pigeon offered for sins show that the purging away of the 
irrational part of the soul is acceptable to God. But if any of the 
righteous refuses to weigh down his soul by the eating of flesh, 
he does this on some reasonable ground, not as Pythagoras and 
his school from some dream as to the transmigration of souls. 11 

9 Ps. 4:5. 10 plato, Leg., 799 A. 

Ji Similarly Origcn, contra Cdsum^ VIII, 30. 



ON SPIRITUAL PERFECTION 113 

Xenocrates in a special treatise on animal food and Polemon 12 
in his book on Life according to Nature, seem to lay it down 
clearly that a flesh diet is inexpedient, as it has already passed 
through a process of digestion and been thus assimilated to the 
souls of irrational creatures. 

33. On this ground especially the Jews abstain from swine's 
flesh, considering that this animal is unclean because it roots up 
and destroys the fruits more than any other. But if it is argued 
that the animals have been given to men, we too agree in this, 
only we say that they are not given entirely, nor indeed all, for 
the purpose of eating, but only those that do no work. Where- 
fore the comic poet Plato in his play The Feasts 13 well says: 
"Hereafter 'twere well to kill no beast but swine, for they are 
excellent eating, and we get nothing out of them but bristles and 
mire and squealing. 55 Hence it was well said by Aesop that "the 
reason why pigs make such an outcry when they are being 
dragged away is because they are conscious that they are good 
for nothing but to be sacrificed." 14 And so Cleanthes says that 
in them the soul takes the place of salt to prevent the flesh from 
putrefying. 15 Some then eat it because it is useless, and others 
because it injures the fruits; while others again abstain from 
eating it because of its immoderate salacity. For the same reason 
the law never requires the sacrifice of a goat except with a view 
to banishing evils, since pleasure is the fountainhead of vice. 
Further, they tell us that the eating of goats' flesh conduces to 
epilepsy. And they say that the largest amount of nutriment is 
supplied from pork, for which reason it is of use to those who 
practise bodily training, but, owing to the sluggishness produced 
by eating flesh, it is of no use to those who try to encourage the 
growth of the soul. A gnostic might therefore abstain from flesh, 
both for the sake of discipline and to weaken the sexual appetite. 
For, as Androcydes says, "wine and fleshly gorging make the 
body strong, but the soul more sluggish." 16 Such a diet does not 
tend to precision of thought. Wherefore also the Egyptians in 
their purifications forbid their priests to eat flesh, and they them- 
selves live on fowl as the lightest diet and abstain from fish for 
various fanciful reasons and especially from the idea that such 
food makes the flesh flabby. 34. Besides this, the life of beasts and 

12 Polemon succeeded Xenocrates as head of the Platonic Academy. 

13 Kock, Com. Ait. Fr.> I, 607. 

i* Cf. Aelian, Var. Mr/., 10:5. i 5 Cleanthes, frag. 516, Arnim, 

1* Cf. Plutarch, Mor., 472 B, 995 E; Pliny, JV.#., 14:58; 17:240. Androcydes 

\vas a Pythagorean. 

A.C. -Q 



114 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

birds is supported by breathing the same air as our souls, their 
soul being akin to the air; but we are told that fishes do not even 
breathe our air, but that air which was infused into water, as 
into the other elements, on its first creation, which is also a 
proof of the fact that air pervades all matter. 

"It is not then expensive sacrifices that we should offer to 
God, but such sacrifices as are dear to him/' 17 viz., that com- 
posite incense of which the Law speaks, 18 an incense com- 
pounded of many tongues and voices in the way of prayer, or 
rather which is being wrought into the unity of the faith 19 out of 
divers nations and dispositions by the divine bounty shown in the 
Covenants, and which is brought together in our songs of praise 
by purity of heart and righteous and upright living grounded in 
holy actions and righteous prayer. For (to add the charm of 
poetry) "what man is there so unwise and beyond measure 
credulous as to expect that, at the burning of bare bones and 
gall, which even hungry dogs would refuse, the gods would all 
rejoice, and accept this as their due meed 35 ; 20 aye, and would 
show their gratitude to the celebrants, though they might be 
pirates or robbers or tyrants? The Christian teaching is that the 
fire sanctifies, not flesh or sacrifice, but sinful souls, under- 
standing by fire not the all-devouring flame of common life, but 
the discerning flame 21 which pierces through 22 the soul that 
walks through fire. 25 

CHAPTER VII 

35. Further, we are bidden to worship and honour the Son and 
Word, being persuaded that he is both Saviour and Ruler, and 
to honour the Father through him, doing this not on special 
days, as some others do, but continuously all our life through, 
and in all possible ways; (though it is true the chosen race, 24 be- 
ing justified by obedience to the precept, say, "Seven times a 
day did I praise thee"). 25 Wherefore it is neither in a definite 
place or special shrine, nor yet on certain feasts and days set 
apart, that the gnostic honours God, returning thanks to him for 
knowledge bestowed and the gift of the heavenly citizenship; 25 

17 Theophrastus, op. Porph. Abst.> II, 19. i Ex. 30:25. 

is Eph. 4:13. 20 Kock, Com. Att. Fr., Ill, 606. 

21 Clement's use of this Stoic distinction (cf. Cleanthes in Cicero, de NaL 
Deor. y II, 15:41} is important for the origins of the doctrine of purgatory. 

22 Heb. 4:12. 23 l sa . 43:2. 24 I Peter 2:9. 
25 Ps. 119 (ii8):i64. 26 Phil. 3:20. Cf. p. 324 f. 



ON SPIRITUAL PERFECTION 115 

but he will do this all his life in every place, whether he be alone 
by himself or have with him some who share his belief. And if 
the presence of some good man always moulds for the better one 
who converses with him, owing to the respect and reverence 
which he inspires, with much more reason must he, who is al- 
ways in the uninterrupted presence of God by means of his 
knowledge and his life and his thankful spirit, be raised above 
himself on every occasion, both in regard to his actions and his 
words and his temper. Such is he who believes that God is every- 
where present, and does not suppose him to be shut up in cer- 
tain definite places, so as to be tempted to incontinence by the 
imagination, forsooth, that he could ever be apart from God 
whether by day or night. Accordingly all our life is a festival: 
being persuaded that God is everywhere present on all sides, we 
praise him as we till the ground, we sing hymns as we sail the 
sea, we feel his inspiration in all that we do. And the gnostic en- 
joys a still closer intimacy with God, being at once serious and 
cheerful in everything, serious owing to his thoughts being 
turned towards heaven, and cheerful, as he reckons up the 
blessings with which God has enriched our human life. 

36. But the pre-eminence of knowledge is plainly set forth by 
the prophet in the words "Teach me goodness and instruction 
and knowledge," 27 where he presents in an ascending scale the 
guiding principle of perfection. Here then we truly have the 
royal man, the holy priest of God a combination which is still 
retained even at the present time among the most enlightened 
of the barbarians, who employ the priestly caste for govern- 
ment. 28 Such a one is far from surrendering himself to the mob- 
government which tyrannizes over the theatres; and as for the 
things which are there said and done and seen with a view to the 
allurements of pleasure, he repudiates them even in a dream. 
He repudiates therefore both these spectacular pleasures and 
the other refinements of luxury, such as costly perfumes flatter- 
ing the sense of smell, or combinations of meats and the attrac- 
tions of various wines enticing the palate, or fragrant wreaths of 
a variety of flowers which enfeeble the soul through the sense. 
Enjoying all things soberly, he refers his enjoyment in every case 
to God as its author, whether it be of food or drink or ointment, 
and offers to the Giver first-fruits of the whole, using the speech 
which he has bestowed, to thank him both for the gift and for 
the use of it. But he seldom appears at convivial entertainments 

27 Ps,iig (ii8):66 (LXX). 2* The Egyptians (Plato, Polit.> 290 D, E). 



Il6 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

unless the banquet invites his attendance by promise of friendly 
intercourse with those of like mind. For he is persuaded that 
God knows all things, and hears not only the voice but the 
thought, since even in our own case the hearing, though set in 
action by means of the passages of the body, causes apprehen- 
sion, not by the power of the body, but by a certain mental im- 
pression and by the intelligence which distinguishes between 
significant sounds. 

37. There is consequently no need for God to be in human 
shape in order that he may hear, nor does he need senses, as the 
Stoics held, 29 especially hearing and sight, dependent on the 
sensitiveness of the air (as though he would otherwise be incap- 
able of apprehension) : but indeed the instantaneous perception 
of the angels, and the power of conscience touching the soul 
these recognize all things with the quickness of thought by 
means of some indescribable faculty apart from sensible hearing. 
Even if one should say that it was impossible for the voice, 
rolling in this lower air, to reach God, still the thoughts of the 
saints cleave, not the air alone, 30 but the whole universe as well. 
And the divine power instantly penetrates the whole soul, like 
light. Again do not our resolves also find their way to God, 
uttering a voice of their own? And are not some things also 
wafted heaven-ward by the conscience? Moreover can we con- 
ceive that he who has known his elect according to his eternal 
purpose, 31 and known before its birth 32 that which was to be, 
as already existing, must wait for the sound of a voice? Is it not 
true that the light of power shines forth in all directions even to 
the very bottom of the soul, since the candle of power, as the 
Scripture says, searches the secret chambers? 33 God is all ear 
and all eye, 34 if one may make use of these expressions. 

38. Where then there is an unworthy conception of God, 
passing into base and unseemly thoughts and significations, it is 
impossible to preserve any sort of devoutness either in hymns or 
discourses or even in writings or doctrines. For which reason 
what most men call reverence is indistinguishable from irrever- 
ence, owing to their ignorance of the truth. Now the objects of 
the appetites and desires and of impulses generally are also the 
objects of our prayers. Wherefore no one desires drink in the 
abstract but to drink, nor an inheritance, but to inherit; and in 

29 Clement makes a slip. He means the Epicureans. 

30 Cf. Ecclesiasticus 32(35):2i. 31 Rom. 8:28, 29; 9:11. 
32 Susanna, 42. 33 Prov. 20:27. 

34 See above, VII, 5. 



ON SPIRITUAL PERFECTION 

like manner no one desires knowledge, but to know; no, nor 
a right constitution, but to live under such a constitution. We 
pray therefore for the same things that we request, and we 
request the same things that we desire; and praying and longing 
are on the same footing as regards the possession of good things 
and the benefits attached to their acquisition. Accordingly the 
gnostic makes his prayer and request for the things that are 
really good, i.e., those pertaining to the soul, and he prays, and 
joins his own efforts as well, that he may no longer have his good 
things attached to him like ornaments, but may be himself good. 

39. Hence too prayer is most fitting for those who have a 
right knowledge of the Divinity and that excellence of character 
which is agreeable to him, i.e., for those who know what are the 
things which are truly good, and what should be asked for, and 
when, and how, in each case. But it is the height of folly to ask 
of those who are not gods as if they were gods, or to ask what is 
inexpedient (i.e., what is evil for oneself), under the impression 
that it is good. Since then the good God is one, 35 we and the 
angels are right in praying that we may receive from him alone 
either the bestowal or continuance of good things. But we do not 
ask alike, for it is not the same thing to ask that the gift may be 
continued, and to strive to obtain it in the first instance. 36 
Prayer for the avoidance of evil is also a kind of prayer. But we 
must never employ a prayer of this kind for the injury of other 
men, except where the gnostic might adapt his request so as to 
contrive for those who were hardened their return to righteous- 
ness. Prayer, then, to speak somewhat boldly, is converse with 
God. Even if we address him in a whisper, without opening our 
lips, or uttering a sound, still we cry to him in our heart. For 
God never ceases to listen to the inward converse of the heart. 

40. For this reason also we raise the head and lift the hands 
towards heaven, 37 and stand on tiptoe as we join in the closing 
outburst of prayer, following the eager flight of the spirit into 
the intelligible world: and while we thus endeavour to detach 
the body from the earth by lifting it upwards along with the 
uttered words, we spurn the fetters of the flesh and constrain 
the soul, winged 38 with desire of better things, to ascend into the 
holy place. 39 For we are well assured that of his own will the 

35 Matt. 19:17. 

36 Clement seems to mean that the angels only pray for the continued enjoy- 
ment of what is already theirs. 

37 Cf. Origen, de Orat., XXXI, below, p. 322 ff. 

38 Plato, Phaedr. 246. 39 Heb. 9:25. 



Il8 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

gnostic leaves this world behind him, just as the Jews did Egypt, 
showing in the plainest way that he was destined to be as near 
as possible to God. And if there are any who assign fixed hours 
to prayer, 40 such as the third and the sixth and the ninth, yet 
the gnostic at all events prays all his life through, striving to be 
united with God in prayer, and, in a word, to have done with 
everything that is useless for that higher life, as one who has 
already attained here below the perfection of one who in love is 
full-grown. However, the triple distribution of the hours and 
their observance by corresponding prayers is also familiar to 
those who are acquainted with the blessed triad of the holy 
mansions. 41 

41. At this point I am reminded of the opinions which are 
being secretly propagated by certain heterodox persons, belong- 
ing to the heresy of Prodicus, against the use of prayer. 42 In 
order that they may not pride themselves on this their godless 
wisdom as though it were something novel, let these men learn 
that they are only following in the steps of the so-called Cyrenaic 
school. 43 The refutation however of the impious knowledge of 
these falsely called gnostics 44 I reserve to its proper season, in 
order that the censure, which must be somewhat protracted, 
may not steal into my notes at this point and so interrupt the 
subject we have in hand; which is a demonstration that only he 
who is a gnostic according to the rule of the Church is really 
pious and devout, and that he alone has his petitions, whether 
spoken or unspoken, 45 granted according to the will of God. For 
as God is able to do every thing that he wills, so the gnostic re- 
ceives every thing that he may ask. 46 For God knows generally 
those that are worthy to receive good things and those that are 
not; whence he gives to each what belongs to him. For this 
reason if request were made by unworthy persons he would often 
refuse to give it, but would give unasked provided they were 
worthy. Yet the petition is not superfluous, even though good 
things be granted without petition made. For instance, both 
thanksgiving and prayer for the conversion of his neighbours are 
the duty of the gnostic. Thus the Lord also prayed, returning 

40 Cf. Tertullian, Qrat., 25; Ieiun. y 10. 

41 Gf. above, VII, 9, and Strom., VI, 114: The three grades of believers (the 
thirty-, sixty-, and hundred-fold of the parable of the sower) have different 
mansions according to their merits. 

42 Gf. Origen, de Orat., V, i, below, p. 247. 

43 Gf. Diogenes Laertius, 2:97. 44 I Tim. 6:20. 
45 See below, VII, 73. 46 Matt. 21:22. 



ON SPIRITUAL PERFECTION IIQ 

thanks for the accomplishment of his ministry 47 and praying 
that as many as possible might share in knowledge, 48 in order 
that God, who alone is good, alone is Saviour, may be glorified 
through his Son, 49 in those who are being saved through the 
salvation which is according to knowledge, 50 and that the know- 
ledge of him may grow from age to age. Howbeit the mere faith 
that one will receive is itself also a kind of prayer stored up in a 
gnostic spirit, 

42. But if prayer is thus an occasion for converse with God, 51 
no occasion for our approach to God must be neglected. Cer- 
tainly the holiness of the gnostic, being bound up with the 
Divine Providence through a voluntary acknowledgment on 
his part, shows the beneficence of God in perfection. For the 
holiness of the gnostic is, as it were, a return back on itself of 
Providence and a responsive feeling of loyalty on the part of the 
friend of God, For neither is the goodness of God involuntary 
like the warmth of fire (but his imparting of good things is 
voluntary, even though he should wait to be asked) ; nor on the 
other hand will the man who is being saved be saved without 
his will, for he is no lifeless machine, but will most assuredly 
hasten to salvation with eager alacrity. It is on this account that 
the commandments were given to man as to a being who would 
be spontaneously impelled to whichever he might choose, 
whether of things eligible or ineligible. God therefore does not 
do good of necessity, but of his own free will he befriends those 
who turn to him of their own accord. 52 For the providence that 
comes to us from God is not ministrative, 53 as though it pro- 
ceeded from inferiors to superiors; but it is from pity of our 
weakness that the nearer dispensations of Providence are set in 
motion, like the care of shepherds for their sheep and that of a 
king towards his subjects; while we ourselves also are submissive 
to our superiors, who govern us in an orderly manner according 
to the commission with which they were entrusted by God. They 
therefore are ministers and worshippers of the Divinity who offer 
the freest and most royal worship, viz., that which is rendered 
by devoutness both of purpose and of knowledge. 

43. Every place then and every time at which we entertain 
the thought of God is truly hallowed; 54 but when he who is at 
once right-minded and thankful makes his request in prayer, he 

47 John 17:4. John 17:19, 23. 

49 Matt 19:17; John 17:1* so John 17:3. 

51 See above, VII, 39. Cfl Origen, de Orat., XXIX, 15. 

See above, VII, 3* 54 Q1 Origen, de Orat., XXXI, 4, 



ISO CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

in a way contributes to the granting of his petition, receiving 
with joy the desired object through the instrumentality of his 
prayers. For when the Giver of all good meets with readiness on 
our part, all good things follow at once on the mere conception 
in the mind. Certainly prayer is a test of the attitude of the char- 
acter towards what is fitting. And if voice and speech are given 
to us with a view to understanding, how can God help hearing the 
soul and the mind by itself, seeing that soul already apprehends 
soul, and mind apprehends mind? Wherefore God has no need 
to learn various tongues, as human interpreters have, but 
understands at once the minds of all men; and what the voice 
signifies to us, that our thought utters to God, since even before 
the creation he knew that it would come into our mind. It is 
permitted to man therefore to speed his prayer even without a 
voice, if he only concentrates all his spiritual energy upon the 
inner voice of the mind by his undistracted turning to God. 

And since the east symbolizes the day of birth, and it is from 
thence that the light spreads, after it has first "shone forth out 
of darkness," 55 aye, and from thence that the day of the know- 
ledge of the truth dawned like the sun upon those who were ly- 
ing in ignorance, 56 therefore our prayers are directed towards 
the rise of dawn. 57 It was for this reason that the most ancient 
temples looked toward the west in order that they who stood 
facing the images might be taught to turn eastwards. "Let my 
prayer ascend up as incense before thee, the lifting up my 
hands be an evening sacrifice" 58 is the language of the Psalms. 

44. In the case of the wicked then prayer is most hurtful not 
only to others, but even to themselves. At any rate, if in answer 
to prayer they were to receive what they call pieces of good for- 
tune, they are injured by receiving them, because they know 
not how to use them. For they pray to obtain what they have 
not got, and they ask for apparent, not real good. The gnostic, 
on the other hand, will ask for a continuance of the things he 
possesses and fitness for what is about to happen, and indiffer- 
ence as to what shall be denied; but as for the things that are 
really good, i.e., those pertaining to the soul, his prayer is that 
they may both be granted to him and may continue. Thus he 
does not even desire anything which he has not, being contented 
with his present lot. For he is not lacking in the good things that 
are proper to him, being already sufficient to himself through 

55 II Cor. 4:6. 56 Matt. 4:16. 

57 Origen, de Orat., XXXII, below, p. 327. Cf. F. J. Dolger, Sol Salutis* 
- Hk 58 PS. I4I:2 . 



ON SPIRITUAL PERFECTION 121 

the Divine grace and knowledge. But, having his resources in 
himself and being independent of others, and having learnt to 
know the omnipotent Will, so that he no sooner prays than he 
receives, he is brought close to the Almighty Power and, by his 
earnest striving after spirituality, is united to the Spirit through 
the love that knows no bounds. This is the man of lofty mind, 
who by the way of science has acquired the most precious and 
best of all possessions, being on the one hand quick to apply the 
faculty of contemplation, while on the other hand he retains 
permanently in his soul the power over the objects of contem- 
plation, i.e., the keen clearness of science. This power he strives 
to the utmost to acquire by gaining the mastery over all that 
wars against the reason 59 and persisting in uninterrupted con- 
templation, while he exercises himself in the discipline which 
teaches the curbing of pleasures and the right direction of action. 
Besides this, from his wide experience, gathered both from study 
and from life, he has acquired freedom of speech, not the power 
of a mere random fluency, but the power of straightforward 
utterance, keeping back nothing that may be spoken in fitting 
time before a right audience, either from favour or fear of 
influential persons. 

45. At any rate he who has received a clear conception of the 
things concerning God from the mystical chorus of the truth 
itself, makes use of the word of exhortation, exhibiting the great- 
ness of virtue according to its worth, both in itself and in its 
effects, being united as intimately as possible with things intel- 
lectual and spiritual in the way of knowledge along with an 
inspired exaltation of prayer. Hence he is always meek and 
gentle, affable, easy of access, forbearing, considerate, con- 
scientious. In him we have a severity of virtue, such as is not 
only proof against corruption, but proof against temptation 
also. He presents a soul altogether unyielding and impregnable 
whether to the assaults of pleasure or of pain. If reason calls him 
to it, he is an unswerving judge, in no respect indulging his pas- 
sions, but keeping inflexibly to the path in which it is the nature 
of justice to walk, being fully persuaded that all things are ad- 
mirably ordered, and that, for the souls which have made 
choice of virtue, progress is always in the direction of what is 
better, until they arrive at the Absolute Goodness, being brought 
close to the great High Priest, 60 in the vestibule, 61 so to speak, 
of the Father. This is the faithful gnostic who is fully persuaded 

59 Rom. 7:23. 60 Heb. 4:14; cf. Strom., VII, 9 and 13, above. 

61 Plato, Phileb., 64 C. 



122 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 



that all things in the world are ordered for the best Certainly 
he is well pleased with all that happens. 

46. He is right therefore in not seeking anything further when 
he is once supplied with the necessaries, being persuaded that 
God, who knows all things, supplies whatever is expedient to 
the good, even without their asking. For as the artificer, I sup- 
pose, has each request granted to him in the way of his art, qua 
artificer, and the heathen qua heathen, so the gnostic has his in 
the way of knowledge qua gnostic. And he that turns to God 
from among the heathen will ask for faith, but he that aspires to 
knowledge will ask for the perfection of love. 62 And when he has 
now reached the summit, the gnostic prays that the power of 
contemplation may grow and abide with him, just as the com- 
mon man prays for a continuance of health. Aye, and he will 
pray too that he may never fall away from virtue, co-operating 
to the best of his power that he may end his Life without a falL 
For he knows that even of the angels some, having slipped back 
to the ground from carelessness, have never yet succeeded in 
extricating themselves completely out of their tendency to 
duplicity into the former singleness of heart. But, to him who 
has been trained here below to the highest point of knowledge, 
and the supreme elevation of a perfect man, all incidents of time 
and space are favourable; for he is fixed to one unchanging 
course of life both by choice and practice, owing to his uniform 
stability of purpose. But in those who have still some corners 63 
of depressing languor that weighs them down, 64 the soaring im- 
pulse of faith also flags. In him, then, who has rendered his 
virtue indefectible by discipline based upon knowledge, habit is 
changed into nature; and in such a one his knowledge becomes 
an inseparable possession, like weight in a stone, not involun- 
tarily, but of his own free will, by the power of reason and know- 
ledge and forethought. 

47. And since that which has not been lost may be raised to 
a state of indefectibility by carefulness and consideration, the 
gnostic^will hold fast to carefulness with a view to avoid sin, and 
to consideration with a view to the indefectibility of virtue. Now 
knowledge seems to be the parent of consideration, because it 
teaches us to discern the things which can help to the perman- 
ence of virtue. But it will be granted that the knowledge of God 
is the most important of all things. Wherefore in this way also 
"Of. John 14. 17. 

** Since in the Platonic or Stoic view the perfect shape was the sphere, any 
angular corner was imperfect. 64 pi ato , Phaedr., 247. 



ON SPIRITUAL PERFECTION 123 

the indefectibility of virtue is assured. And he who knows God 
is holy and pious. We have proved therefore that the gnostic 
alone is pious. He rejoices in his present blessings and delights 
himself in those that are promised, as though they were already 
present for he has not lost sight of them as if they were still 
absent because he already knows of what nature they are. 
Being therefore convinced by his knowledge that each of the 
things that shall be, really is, he virtually possesses each. And 
this is enough for man; for sufficient and insufficient are 
measured by that which is normal in each case. At any rate, if 
the gnostic is possessed of wisdom, and wisdom is divine, he who 
partakes of what has no defect must himself be without defect. 
For the communication of wisdom is not the resultant of energy 
on the part of the giver and inertia on the part of the recipient, 
nor is any abstraction or deficiency caused by it; at any rate the 
energy is shown to be undiminished by the very fact of the com- 
munication. Thus then our gnostic has all good in potentiality, 
though not yet in full tale; since he would otherwise have been 
incapable of change in reference to the inspired progresses and 
orderings which are still due to him by God's decree. 

48. God also assists him, honouring him with a closer over- 
sight. For is it not the case that all things have been created for 
the sake of good men and for their use and benefit or, rather we 
should say, salvation? He would not therefore deprive of the 
rewards of virtue those for whom all things exist. For it is plain 
that he valued highly their good disposition and their holy 
choice, seeing that he breathes into those that have taken on 
themselves a good profession, strength for the completion of 
their salvation, in some cases by simple exhortation, but also by 
actual help in the case of those who have proved themselves 
worthy of their own efforts. For to the gnostic every kind of good 
comes as an accessory, 65 seeing that his chief end is in each case 
knowledge and action in accordance with knowledge. And as 
the physician provides health for those who co-operate with him 
for health, so also God provides eternal salvation for those who 
co-operate with him for knowledge and right action; and the 
moment that we do any one of the things in our power, which 
are enjoined by the commandments, the promise also receives 
its fulfilment. I like that story which is told among the Greeks of 
a famous athlete of former days, who had trained himself for 
feats of manhood by a long course of discipline. Having gone up 
to the Olympian games he turned to the image of Pisaean Zeus 
65 A Stoic phrase (Cicero, de Finibus, III, 32). 



124 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

and uttered these words: "If I, O Zeus, have now done all that 
was fitting on my part in preparation for the contest, do thou 
make haste to bestow the victory I deserve." For just so does the 
gnostic, when he has thoroughly and conscientiously performed 
his part with a view to learning and discipline and with a view 
to doing good and pleasing God, find the whole world con- 
tributing to perfect his salvation. The things then that are re- 
quired of us are those which are in our own power, viz., choice 
and desire and acquisition and use and distribution of the things 
which concern us, according as they are present or absent. 

49. Wherefore also he who holds intercourse with God must 
have his soul undefiled and absolutely pure, having raised him- 
self to a state of perfect goodness if possible, but at any rate both 
making progress towards knowledge and longing for it, and be- 
ing entirely withdrawn from the works of wickedness. Moreover 
it is fitting that he should offer all his prayers in a good^ spirit 
and in concert with good men, for it is a dangerous thing to 
countenance the errors of others. The gnostic will therefore 
share the prayers of ordinary believers in those cases in which it 
is right for him to share their activity also. But all his life is a 
holy festival. For instance, his sacrifices consist of prayers and 
praises and the reading of the Scriptures before dining, and 
psalms and hymns during dinner and before going to bed, aye 
and of prayers again during the night. By these things he unites 
himself with the heavenly choir, being enlisted in it for ever- 
mindful contemplation, in consequence of his uninterrupted 
thought of heaven while on earth. Again, is he not acquainted 
with that other sacrifice which consists in the free gift both of 
instruction and of money among those who are in need? Cer- 
tainly he is. On the other hand he is not wordy in his uttered 
prayers, 66 since he has been also taught by the Lord what to ask 
for. Accordingly he will pray in every place, not however pub- 
licly or for all to see; but in every sort of way his prayer ascends, 
whether he is walking or in company or at rest or reading or 
engaged in good works; and though it be only a thought 67 in the 
secret chamber 68 of the heart, while he calls on the Father 69 in 
groanings which cannot be uttered, 70 yet the Father is nigh at 
hand, 71 even before he has done speaking. 72 Of the three ends 
of action, the honourable, the expedient and the pleasant, he 

*<s Matt. 6:7. 

67 See the quotation in para. 73 below, and Strom.> VI y 78. 

$8 Matt 6:6. & I Peter 1:17. 70 Rom 8:26. 

71 Ps. 145:18. 72 Isa. 65:24; Dan, 9:21. 



ON SPIRITUAL PERFECTION 125 

makes the two former his rule, and leaves it to those who follow 
the common life to be guided in any action by the third motive 
of pleasure. 

CHAPTER VIII 

50. He whose life is characterized by piety of this kind has little 
temptation to lying and swearing. For an oath is a definitive 
compact in which God is called to witness. And how could one 
who has once for all proved himself faithful, make himself un- 
faithful so as to stand in need of an oath, instead of allowing his 
life to carry with it the security and definiteness of an oath? 73 
Both in his life and in his intercourse with others he shows the 
faithfulness of his promise by unfailing steadfastness both of life 
and speech. And, if injustice consists in the determination of the 
doer and speaker, and not in the suffering of the aggrieved per- 
son, he will refrain both from lying and forswearing himself, not 
with an idea that he is doing injury to God (since he knows that 
God is naturally incapable of receiving injury); but also for his 
neighbour's sake he will refuse to lie or break any agreement, 
seeing that he has learnt to love him, 74 even though he may not 
be a personal friend; and still more for his own sake he will re- 
frain both from lying and from perjury, seeing that he would 
never, if he could help it, be found guilty of wronging himself. 
Nay, he will not even swear at all, preferring simply to use the 
particle "y es " in case of affirmation, and "no" 75 in case of 
denial. For to swear is to use an oath or its equivalent with in- 
tent to inspire confidence. 51. It is enough for him therefore to 
add the words "I speak the truth" either to his assent or denial, 
in order to give confidence to those who are too obtuse to see 
that his answer may be depended on. For, as regards those who 
are without, I think his life should be worthy of trust, so that 
they should not even ask for an oath; but as regards his own 
family and those who have a right understanding 76 there should 
be confidence in his fairness, i.e., in his unforced desire to do 
right. In any case the gnostic is true to his oath, but slow to 
swear, since he rarely comes forward to take an oath, and that 
only as we have stated. Still to be true to one's oath is a part of 
the harmony of truth; so that the observance of an oath follows 
the rule for the performance of ordinary duties. Where then is 
there any further need for the oath to one who lives according 

73 Cf. Isocrates, 1:22. 74 Matt. 19:19. 

75 Matt. 5:37. 76 Prov. 8:9. 



126 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

to the highest standard of truth? He who does not even swear 
will be far indeed from perjuring himself, and he who observes 
every clause of his contracts would never swear at all, seeing that 
it is actions that decide whether contracts are broken or fulfilled; 
just as the question of falsehood and perjury is decided by 
speaking and swearing contrary to right. But he that lives justly, 
without violating any duty, is proved by his actions, wherein 
the judgment of the truth is sifted, to be true to his oath. The 
evidence of the tongue is therefore superfluous in his case. Being 
then persuaded that God is always present everywhere, and be- 
ing ashamed not to tell the truth, and knowing that, not to speak 
of perjury, even a lie is unworthy of himself, he is satisfied with 
the witness of God and of his own conscience only. So, while on 
the one hand he neither lies nor does anything contrary to his 
agreements, on the other hand he neither takes an oath when it 
is demanded of him, nor denies what he has done, being resolute 
to be clear of lying, even though he should die under torture. 

CHAPTER IX 

52. But the dignity of the gnostic is carried to an even further 
pitch by him who has undertaken the direction of the teaching 
of others, assuming the management in word and deed of that 
which is the greatest blessing on earth, by virtue of which he 
becomes a mediator to bring about a close union and fellowship 
with God. And as they that worship earthly things pray to the 
images as though they heard them, confirming their covenants 
before them; so the true majesty of the word is received from the 
trustworthy teacher in the presence of men, the living images of 
God, and the benefit done to them is referred to the Lord him- 
self, after whose likeness the true man creates and moulds the 
character of the man under instruction, renewing him to salva- 
tion. For, as the Greeks call iron by the name of Ares and wine 
by that of Dionysus (according to the figure which carries back 
the effect to the cause), so the gnostic who regards good done to 
his neighbours as his own salvation, might well be called a living 
image of the Lord, not according to the particular outward 
form, but in so far as he symbolizes his power and resembles him 
in preaching the gospel. 

53. Whatever then he has in his mind, that he has also on his 
tongue, when addressing those who are worthy to hear it from 
their agreement with him, since both his word and his life are in 
harmony with his thought. For he not only thinks what is true, 



ON SPIRITUAL PERFECTION 127 

but he also speaks the truth, except it be medicinally, on occa- 
sion; just as a physician, with a view to the safety of his patients, 
will practise deception or use deceptive language to the sick, 
according to the sophists. 77 For instance, the great apostle cir- 
cumcised Timothy, 78 though he proclaimed aloud and in writ- 
ing that circumcision made with hands profiteth not. 79 But 
fearing that, if he were all at once to withdraw from the law to 
the circumcision of the heart which is by faith, 80 he might drive 
the Hebrew disciples who were still restive to break off from the 
congregation, accommodating himself to the Jews, he became a 
Jew that he might gain all. 8 1 He then who stoops to accommoda- 
tion merely for the salvation of his neighbours, i.e., for the 
salvation of those for whose sake he practises accommodation, 
not dissembling under stress of the danger which threatens the 
righteous from those who are jealous of them such a one can 
by no means be said to act under compulsion; though, solely 
for the good of his neighbours, he will do some things, which 
would not be done by him in the first instance, were it not for 
them. He offers himself in behalf of the Church, in behalf of the 
disciples whom he has himself begotten 82 in the faith, for a pat- 
tern to those that are capable of succeeding to the exalted office 
of a teacher filled with love to God and love to man, for con- 
firmation of the truth of his words, for the manifestation of his 
love to the Lord. He is not enslaved in fear, he is patient in toil, 
true in word, shrinking from falsehood even in the outward 
utterance, and herein always attaining strict accuracy, since a 
lie in his eyes is no idle word, but is active for wickedness, as 
being the expression of a kind of treachery. 54. So then it is the 
gnostic alone that witnesses to the truth 83 in every way both by 
word and deed: for he is altogether right in all things, in word 
and act and even in thought itself. 

Such then is a brief account of Christian devoutness. If now 
the Christian does these things fittingly and in accordance with 
right reason, he is acting piously and justly. And if this is so, the 
gnostic alone would be really pious and just and devout. The 
Christian therefore is no atheist for this is what we proposed to 
prove to the philosophers so that nothing bad or mean, i.e., 

77 Cf. Plato, Rep., 382 C; 389 B; 459 C, D; Origen, contra Celsum, IV, 18-19. 

78 Acts 16:3. 

79 Rom. 2:25; Eph. 2:11. Porphyry, in his attack on Christianity, accuses 
Paul of inconsistency in circumcising Timothy (frag. 27, Harnack). 

o Rom. 2:129; 3:30. 81 I Cor. 9:19 f. 

82 I Cor. 4:15, 83 John 5:31; 18:37* 



128 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

nothing unjust, will ever be done by him in any wise. It follows 
from this that neither is he impious; rather it is he alone that is 
truly pious, fitly and piously worshipping after the rule of a true 
devotion him who is in very deed the All-ruling God and 
Almighty King. 

CHAPTER X 

55. For the knowledge of insight (gnosis) is, so to speak, a kind 
of perfection of man as man, harmonious and consistent with 
itself and with the divine word, being completed, both as to the 
disposition and the manner of life and of speech, by the science 
of divine things. For it is by insight that faith is made perfect, 84 
seeing that the man of faith only becomes perfect in this way. 
Now faith is a certain inward good: without making search for 
God, it both confesses his existence, and glorifies him as existent. 
Hence a man must start with this faith, and having waxed 
strong in it by the grace of God, must thus attain to insight con- 
cerning him, so far as is possible. We distinguish however be- 
tween insight and the wisdom which is implanted by teaching. 
For in so far as anything deserves to be called insight, so far it is 
certainly wisdom also; but in so far as a thing is wisdom, it is not 
certainly insight. For the meaning of the term wisdom is shown 
only in the use of the spoken word: while the foundation of in- 
sight, on the other hand, lies in having no doubt about God, but 
trusting him implicitly; and Christ is both the foundation and 
the superstructure Christ, through whom are both the begin- 
ning and the end. Now the extremes, i.e., the beginning and the 
end, I mean faith and love, are not matters of teaching; but 
knowledge (gnosis}, being handed down by tradition according 
to the grace of God, is entrusted as a deposit to those who show 
themselves worthy of the teaching; and from this teaching the 
worth of love shines forth in ever-increasing light. For it is said, 
to him that hath, shall be added, 85 knowledge added to faith 
and love to knowledge, and to love, the heavenly inheritance. 
56. This takes place whenever any one hangs upon the Lord 
by means of faith and knowledge and love, and ascends up with 
him to the presence of the God and guardian of our faith and 
love; who is the ultimate source from which knowledge is im- 
parted to those who are fitted and approved for it, because they 
need further preparation and training both for the hearing of the 
words spoken, and with a view to soberness of life and to their 

84 James a;st2. 85 Luke 19:26. 



ON SPIRITUAL PERFECTION I2Q 

careful advance to a point beyond the righteousness of the law. 86 
This knowledge leads us on to that perfect end which knows no 
end, teaching us here the nature of the life we shall hereafter 
live with gods according to the will of God, when we have been 
delivered from all chastisement and punishment, which we have 
to endure as salutary chastening 87 in consequence of our sins. 
After this deliverance rank and honours are assigned to those 
who are perfected, who have done now with purification and 
all other ritual, though it be holy among the holy; until at last, 
when they have been made pure in heart 88 by their closeness to 
the Lord, the final restoration attends on their everlasting con- 
templation of God. And the name of gods is given to those that 
shall hereafter be enthroned with the other gods, who first had 
their station assigned to them beneath the Saviour. 8 8a Knowledge 
therefore is swift to purify, and suitable for the welcome change 
to the higher state. 57. Hence, too, it easily transplants a man 
to that divine and holy state which is akin to the soul, and by a 
light of its own carries him through the mystic stages, till it re- 
stores him to the crowning abode of rest, having taught the 
pure in heart to look upon God 89 face to face 90 with under- 
standing and absolute certainty. For herein lies the perfection 
of the gnostic soul, that having transcended all purifications and 
modes of ritual, it should be with the Lord 91 where he is, in 
immediate subordination to him. 

Faith then is a compendious knowledge of the essentials, but 
knowledge is a sure and firm demonstration of the things re- 
ceived through faith, being itself built up by the Lord's teaching 
on the foundation of the faith, and carrying us on to unshaken 
conviction and scientific certainty. As I mentioned before, there 
seems to me to be a first kind of saving change from heathenism 
to faith, a second from faith to knowledge; and this latter, as it 
passes on into love, begins at once to establish a mutual friend- 
ship between that which knows and that which is known. And 
perhaps he who has arrived at this stage has already attained 
equality with the angels. 92 At any rate, after he has reached the 
final ascent in the flesh, he still continues to advance, as is fit, 
and presses on through the holy Hebdomad into the Father's 
house, to that which is indeed the Lord's abode, 93 being destined 
there to be, as it were, a light standing and abiding for ever, 
absolutely secure from all vicissitude. 

&<5 Matt 5:20; Rom. 10:5. * 7 Heb. 12:7. 88 Matt. 5:8. 

88* I.e. the angels. Cf. Origen, contra Celsum, III, 37. 89 Matt. 5:8. 

*> I Cor. 13:12. 91 I Thess. 4:17. ^ Luke 20:36. ^ John 14:2. 



130 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

58. The first mode of the Lord's working gives evidence of 
the above-mentioned reward following on devoutness. Out of 
many testimonies I will adduce one, thus summarily stated by 
the prophet David: "Who shall ascend into the hill of the Lord? 
or who shall stand in his holy place? He that hath clean hands 
and a pure heart; who hath not lifted up his soul unto vanity, 
nor sworn deceitfully to his neighbour. He shall receive a bless- 
ing from the Lord and mercy from God his Saviour. This is the 
generation of them that seek the Lord, that seek the face of the 
God of Jacob." 94 The prophet is here briefly describing the 
gnostic, and in passing, as it seems, he shows that the Saviour is 
God, calling him the face of the God of Jacob, i.e., one who 
preached and taught concerning the Father, Wherefore also the 
apostle used the phrase "impress of the Father's glory" 95 in 
reference to the Son, who taught the truth concerning God and 
gave this mark, that one alone is God and Father, 96 viz., the 
Almighty, whom no one knew but the Son, and he to whom the 
Son shall have revealed him. 97 That God is one is also declared 
by the phrase seeking the face of the God of Jacob, whom alone, 
being God the Father, our Saviour and God characterizes as 
good. 98 But the generation of them that seek him is the chosen 
race 99 which seeks with a view to knowledge. 

59. For this reason also the apostle says: "I shall profit you 
nothing unless I speak unto you either in the way of revelation 
or of knowledge or of prophesying or of teaching." 1 And yet 
some things are done rightly, though not on rational grounds, 
even by those who are not gnostics, as in the case of courage. 
For some men, being by nature full of spirit and having fostered 
this quality without the use of reason, act for the most part by 
irrational impulse and do the same sort of things as brave men, 
so as at times to exhibit the same height of virtue, as for instance 
to endure tortures calmly; but this is neither from the same 
cause nor even with the same purpose as the gnostic, even 
though they should give up their whole body; 2 for, as the apostle 
says, they have not the love which proceeds from knowledge. 
All the action then of a man of understanding is of the nature of 
well-doing and all the action of him who is without under- 
standing is ill-doing, even though he should be maintaining a 
principle, since his courage does not proceed from reason, nor 
does he direct his action for any useful purpose, such as has its 

* Ps. 124:3-6. $3 Heb. 1 13, *6 Eph. 4:6. 

w Matt* 11:27. ?s Matt 19: 1 7. *> I Peter 2:9. 

i 1 Cor. 14:6. 2 j 



ON SPIRITUAL PERFECTION 131 

end in virtue. 3 The same thing may be said of the other virtues 
and therefore by analogy in the case of piety. Accordingly we 
shall find the gnostic to be such not in holiness only; but, in re- 
gard to the rest of his conduct also, his professions are in accord- 
ance with his enlightened piety. For it is the life of the gnostic 
which it is our purpose now to describe, and not to give a 
systematic view of his beliefs which we shall afterwards set forth 
at the fitting season, preserving the sequence of thought. 

CHAPTER XI 

60. The gnostic then has a true and noble conception of the 
universe, as might be expected from one who has comprehended 
the divine teaching. Starting with that admiration 4 for the 
creation which he brings with him as an evidence of his capacity 
to receive knowledge, he becomes an eager disciple of the Lord, 
and the moment he hears of God and Providence, his admira- 
tion prompts him to believe. Proceeding from this point he does 
his best to learn in every way, employing every means to obtain 
the knowledge of those things which he longs for (and longing 
joined with seeking arises as faith increases), that is, to be made 
worthy of such high and glorious contemplation. Thus the 
gnostic will taste of the will of God. For he lends, not his ears, 
but his soul, to the facts indicated by the spoken words. Since 
then what he receives through the words are realities and the 
facts themselves, he naturally brings his soul to his duties, under- 
standing the commands Do not commit adultery, Do not kill, 5 in 
a special sense, as they are addressed to the gnostic and not as 
they are apprehended by the rest of the world. 

61. Training himself in scientific contemplation, he goes on 
to contend on the strength of these higher and more universal 
truths, being fully assured that "he who" (according to the 
prophet) "teaches man knowledge is the Lord," 6 the Lord using 
man's mouth as his organ. Wherefore also he has taken human 
flesh. With good reason therefore he never prefers what is 
pleasant to what is expedient, not even though he should be 
taken at a disadvantage and vehemently urged by the harlot 
arts of some fair wanton; for neither could Joseph be seduced 
from his firm purpose by his master's wife, but when she kept 
hold of his garment, he left it in her hands, being thus denuded 

3 This is Stoic teaching (Arnim, S.V.F., III, 511). 

4 Plato, Tkeaet., 155 D. 5 Ex. 20:13, 15; Matt. 5:21, 27. 
<s Ps. 94:10, ii. 



132 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

of sin, but clothing himself in modesty. For, though the eyes of 
his master, I mean the Egyptian, did not see Joseph, yet the 
eyes of the Almighty were watching him. For we men hear the 
voice and see the bodily form, but the Lord searcheth the spirit, 7 
from which both speech and sight proceed. In like manner, 
whether disease or accident befall the gnostic, aye, or even death 
the most terrible of all things, he continues unchanged in soul, 
knowing that all such things are a necessary result of creation, 
but that, even so, they are made by the power of God a medicine 
of salvation, 8 benefiting by discipline those who are disposed to 
rebel against amendment, being distributed according to desert 
by a truly merciful Providence. 

62. The gnostic then uses God's creatures, when, and so far 
as, it is reasonable, in a spirit of thankfulness to the Creator, 
and so gains the mastery over his enjoyment of them. He never 
bears a grudge, is never angry with anyone, even though he 
should deserve hatred for his conduct; for he worships the 
Creator and loves his fellow man, pitying him and praying for 
him on account of his ignorance. Moreover, though he shares in 
the affections of the body, naturally sensitive as it is, in which he 
is imprisoned, yet he is not primarily affected by passion. At any 
rate, in the accidents which befall him against his will, he raises 
himself from his troubles to his native element, and is not car- 
ried away by things which have nothing to do with true self, 
but accommodates himself to the necessities of the case, so far 
as it does not interfere with the welfare of the soul. For he does 
not wish to be faithful only in reputation or indeed in outward 
seeming, but in knowledge and in truth, that is to say, in con- 
sistent action and effectual speech. Wherefore he not only 
praises what is noble, but himself strives to be noble, passing 
from the condition of a good and faithful servant 9 to that of a 
friend 10 by means of love, owing to the perfection of the virtuous 
habit which he acquired in its purity by true instruction and 
long training. 

63. As one then who would force his way to the pinnacle of 
knowledge, orderly in character, sober in bearing, he possesses 
all the advantages which mark the true gnostic, fixing his eyes 
on noble images, on the many patriarchs who have fought their 
fight before him, on a still greater multitude of prophets, on 
angels beyond our power to number, on the Lord who is over 
all, who taught him, and made it possible for him to attain that 

7 I Sam. 16:7; Jer. 17:10, etc. 8 Euripides, Phoen., 893. 

$ Matt. 25:23. 10 John 15:15. 



ON SPIRITUAL PERFECTION 133 

crowning life. For this reason he loves none of the fair things 
that the world holds out to him, fearing lest they should tie him 
to the ground; but he loves the things which are hoped for, or 
rather are already known, but whose possession is hoped for. 
Thus he endures his labours and tortures and afflictions, not, 
like the brave men whom the philosophers talk of, from hope 
that the present evils will cease, and that he will again have a 
share of pleasures; no, knowledge has begotten in him a per- 
suasion, surer than any hope, of the reaping of rewards to come. 
Wherefore he despises not only the persecutions, but also all the 
pleasures of this world. So we are told that the blessed Peter, 
when he beheld his wife on her way to execution, 11 rejoiced on 
account of her call and her homeward journey, and addressed 
her by name with words of exhortation and good cheer, bidding 
her "remember the Lord." 

64. Such was the marriage of those blessed ones and such 
their perfect control over their feelings even in the dearest rela- 
tions of life. So too the apostle says, "Let him that marrieth be as 
though he married not," 12 requiring that marriage should not 
be enslaved to passion nor distracted from the love to the Lord; 13 
to which love the wife, when departing from this life to the Lord, 
was exhorted to cling by him who showed himself a husband 
indeed. Was not the faith in the hope after death clearly mani- 
fested by those who, even in the very height of persecution, 
could return thanks to God? The reason, I suppose, was the 
steadfastness of their faith, which was accompanied by acts of 
corresponding faithfulness. So in every difficulty the soul of the 
gnostic proves its strength, being in first-rate condition and 
vigour, like the body of the athlete. For it is well-advised in the 
affairs of men, measuring what has to be done by the rule of 
justice, having received its principles from God in the first in- 
stance, and having attained to moderation in the pleasures and 
pains of the body, in accordance with the divine likeness; thus 
he rises up against his fears with good courage, putting his trust 
in God. Accordingly the gnostic soul is just an earthly image of 
the divine Power, adorned with perfect virtue, built up by the 
combined action of nature, discipline, and reason. The soul thus 
beautified becomes a temple of the Holy Spirit, 14 when it has 
acquired a temper of mind corresponding to the gospel in every 
relation of life. 

65. Such a one rises up against every fear and all that is 

11 That Peter's wife was martyred is a story told only by Clement. 

12 I Cor. 7:29. " I Cor. 7:35. u I Cor. 6:19. 



134 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

terrible, not death alone, but poverty and disease and disgrace 
and whatever is akin to these, being invincible by pleasure 
and master of the irrational appetites. For he knows well what 
ought and what ought not to be done, having a thorough under- 
standing of what is really formidable and what is not. Hence 
he undertakes with intelligence what reason dictates as right and 
fitting for him to do, distinguishing intelligently things that are 
really encouraging, i.e., good things, 15 from those which only 
seem to be so, and that which is formidable from that which 
appears formidable, such as death and disease and poverty, 
which pertain rather to seeming than to truth. This is the truly 
good man who stands outside the passions, having risen above 
the whole life of passion by the habit or disposition of the virtuous 
soul. For him, all depends upon himself for the attainment of 
the end. For the so-called dangers of fortune are not formidable 
to the good man, because they are not really evil; but real 
dangers are foreign to the gnostic Christian, since, as evil, they 
are directly opposed to what is good; and it is "impossible that 
opposites can happen simultaneously to the same thing in the 
same respect and at the same time." 16 Thus, playing irreproach- 
ably whatever part in life God may have assigned to him to act, 
he perceives both what he ought to do and what he ought to 
endure. 

66. Does cowardice then arise in any other way except 
through ignorance of what is, and what is not, to be feared? 17 
If not, the gnostic alone is of good courage, because he perceives 
what is good both in the present and in the future, and com- 
bines with this, as I said, the knowledge of the things which are 
not really to be feared. For, being convinced that vice alone is 
hostile and destructive to those who are on the road to know- 
ledge, he wars against it, as such, being fortified with the armour 
of the Lord. (For it does not follow that, if an action has its rise 
in folly and the operation, or rather co-operation, of the devil, 
it is to be at once identified with folly or the devil; (because no 
operation is prudence; for prudence is a habit, and no operation 
is a habit) : so neither is the action that originates in ignorance 
to be forthwith styled ignorance: it is a bad action caused by 
ignorance, not ignorance pure. For not even passions or sins are 
vices, thought they proceed from vice.) No one, therefore, who 
is irrationally brave is a gnostic. Else we might be told that 
children are brave when they face dangers from ignorance of 

is Plato, Laches, 198 C. i Plato, fop., IV, 436 B. 

17 Gf. Plato, Prot. y 360 C. 



ON SPIRITUAL PERFECTION 135 

the grounds of fear for instance they will even play with fire 
and we may be told that wild beasts are virtuous when they rush 
upon the spears, being irrationally brave. On the same prin- 
ciple they will perhaps tell us that jugglers are brave when they 
have learnt the trick of tumbling among the swords, practising a 
base art for a miserable pittance. But he who is truly brave, 
though the peril arising from popular fury is plain before his 
eyes, awaits with confidence whatever comes. Herein is he dis- 
tinguished from other so-called martyrs, in that they provide 
occasions for themselves by exposing themselves to dangers for 
whatever reason (for we must avoid harsh language) ; but the 
others, taking precautions in accordance with the dictates of 
reason, and then cheerfully offering themselves, when God really 
calls them, both make their calling sure, 18 from the conscious- 
ness that they have not been guilty of any rash act, and give 
opportunity for testing their manhood by their truly rational 
courage. 

67. It is therefore neither through "enduring lesser terrors 
from fear of greater" 19 (as other people do), nor again through 
apprehension of fault-finding from people of their own station 
and way of thinking, that they abide by the confession of their 
calling: no, they willingly obey the divine call owing to their 
love to God, not for the sake of the prizes of the contests, since 
they prefer no other aim to the doing of that which is well- 
pleasing to God. For those that endure from love of glory, or 
from fear of some severer punishment, or with a view to any 
joys or pleasures after death, these are mere children in faith, 
blessed indeed, but not having attained to manhood, like the 
gnostic, in their love to God for the Church too has its crowns 
both for men and for boys, just as the gymnasium has but love 
is to be chosen for its own sake, not for any other reason. It may 
be said therefore that the gnostic's perfection of courage grows 
with the growth of knowledge out of the discipline of life, be- 
cause he has always studied how to control his passions. Love 
then, by her anointing and training, makes her own champion 
fearless and intrepid and full of trust in the Lord, just as right- 
eousness wins for him the power of life-long truthfulness. For in 
the phrase "Your yea shall be yea and your nay nay," 20 there 
was given an abstract of righteousness. And the same may be 
said of self-control also. For a man is not made really self- 
controlled through ambition, as in the case of the athlete, for 
the sake of crowns and glory; nor again through covetousness, 
is II Peter 1:10. Plato, Phaedo> 68 D. 20 James 5:12. 



136 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

as some feign, pursuing a good end by means of a fatal passion; 
no, nor yet through the desire of bodily health, nor from boorish 
insensibility enabling him to abstain from pleasures for which he 
has no taste. 21 Certainly those who live a life of toil, when they 
get a taste of pleasure, presently break down the rigour of their 
self-restraint in regard to pleasure. Such too are those who are 
kept in check only by law and by fear; for when they get a chance 
they evade the law, deserting the side of honour. But temper- 
ance that is chosen for her own sake, being perfected according 
to knowledge and taking up her abode in the heart, gives a man 
authority and makes him independent; so that the gnostic is 
temperate and passionless, proof against pleasures and pains, 
as, they say, the adamant is against fire. 

68. The cause of these things is love, love surpassing all know- 
ledge in holiness and sovereignty. For by it the gnostic, owing 
to his worship of the best and highest, the stamp of which is 
unity, is made friend 22 and son 23 at once, a perfect man indeed, 
grown to the full measure of stature. 24 Aye, and concord also 
is defined to be agreement about the same thing, and by "the 
same thing 53 we mean unity; and friendship is brought about by 
similarity, because fellowship lies in unity. The gnostic there- 
fore, being naturally disposed to love God who is truly one, is 
himself a truly perfect man and a friend of God, being ranked 
and reckoned as a son. These are names expressive of nobility 
and knowledge and perfection, in accordance with that vision of 
God which is the crowning height attainable by the gnostic 
soul, when it has been perfectly purified, being now deemed 
worthy to behold for ever the Almighty, face to face. 25 For hav- 
ing been made entirely spiritual it departs to its kindred sphere 
and there, in the spiritual Church, abides in the rest of God. 

CHAPTER XII 

69. So much then for these things. But the gnostic, being such 
as we have described him in body and soul, is found to be fair 
alike towards all his neighbours, whatever their legal position, 
whether servant or foeman or whatever it be. For he does not 
neglect him who, according to the divine law, stands to him in 
the relation of brother by the same parents; certainly, when he 
is in distress, he relieves him by consolations and encourage- 
ments and by making provision for the needs of daily life. While 

21 Cf. Aristotle, Eth* Nic*, II, 2:2 (1004 A, 24), 22 John 15:15. 

23 John 1:12. 24 Eph. 4:13. 25 I Cor. 13:12. 



ON SPIRITUAL PERFECTION 137 

he gives to all who are in need, he does not do it to the same ex- 
tent, but in accordance with justice and proportionately; more- 
over he gives even to one who persecutes and hates him, if he 
stands in need of it, caring little for those who insinuate that fear 
was his motive, provided that he was doing it not from fear, but 
only from a wish to help. For if a man is liberal and forgiving in 
dealing with enemies, how much more will he be loving to his 
friends? Such an one will proceed from this point to an exact 
understanding as regards the person, the amount^ the time and 
the manner in which liberality would be best dispensed. And 
who could reasonably be the enemy of a man who affords no 
possible excuse for enmity? Perhaps as, in speaking of God, we 
say that God is opposed to none and the enemy of none (for he 
is Creator of all things and there is no existing thing that he does 
not love, but we call those his enemies who are disobedient and 
do not walk according to his laws, as for instance those who hate 
his covenant) ; so we might find the same disposition in the case 
of the gnostic. For he himself could never be in any way hostile 
to any one, but they who take the contrary course might be 
thought hostile to him. Besides, even if our habit of freely shar- 
ing with others is called justice, still the habit which makes pro- 
portionate distinction of less or more in cases where distribution 
should be scientific, is a form of highest justice. There are indeed 
cases in which right is done, as in abstaining from pleasures, 
from vulgar motives. For, as among the heathen some practise 
abstinence from present pleasures, both through inability to 
obtain what they desire, 26 and through fear of man, while there 
are others who abstain for the sake of greater pleasures; 27 so also 
in the faith some are continent either on account of the promise 
or through fear of God. 

70. Still even such continence as this serves as a foundation 
of knowledge and an introduction to what is better and a move- 
ment towards perfection. For the fear of the Lord is said to be 
the beginning of wisdom. 28 But he that is perfect beareth all 
things and endureth all things 29 for love's sake, not as pleasing 
man, but God. 30 Yet praise too attends him by way of natural 
consequence, not for his own benefit, but for the imitation and 
use of those who bestow the praise. The word meaning continent 
is used in another sense also, not of him who only conquers his 

26 A quotation from Theognis (Aristotle, Eth. NIC., I, 9, 1099 A, 25 f.; Eth. 
Eud. y I, i, 1214 A, 6). 

27 The Epicurean view. Cf. Origen, contra Celsum, VII, 63. 

28 Prov. 9:10. 29 I Cor. 13:7. 30 I Thess. 2:4. 



138 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

passions, but of him also who has become possessed of good and 
has a firm hold of the treasures of understanding, from which 
spring the fruits of virtuous activity. Thus the gnostic never de- 
parts from his own set habit in any emergency. For the scientific 
possession of good is fixed and unchangeable, being the science 
of things divine and human. 31 Knowledge therefore never be- 
comes ignorance, nor does good change to evil. Hence with him 
eating and drinking and marrying are not the main objects of 
life, though they are its necessary conditions. I speak of mar- 
riage sanctioned by reason and in accordance with right: for 
being made perfect he has the apostles as his patterns. 32 And 
true manhood is shown not in the choice of a celibate life; on 
the contrary the prize in the contest of men is won by him who 
has trained himself by the discharge of the duties of husband 
and father and by the supervision of a household, regardless 
of pleasure and pain by him, I say, who in the midst of his 
solicitude for his family shows himself inseparable from the love 
of God and rises superior to every temptation which assails him 
through children and wife and servants and possessions. On the 
other hand he who has no family is in most respects untried. In 
any case, as he takes thought only for himself, he is inferior to 
one who falls short of him as regards his own salvation, but who 
has the advantage in the conduct of life, in as much as he 
actually preserves a faint image of the true Providence, 

71. In any case it is our duty to provide the most varied 
training for the soul so as to make it impressible for the recep- 
tion of knowledge. Do you not see how wax is softened and 
copper refined that it may receive the stamp impressed upon it? 
Further, as death is a separation of soul from body, so knowledge 
is, as it were, a rational death, leading off the soul from its pas- 
sions and separating it from them, and leading it on to the life 
of virtuous activity, in order that it may then say with boldness 
to God, "I live as thou wouldst have me." For he who makes it 
his aim to please men, 33 cannot please God, 34 since the mass of 
men choose not the things that are expedient, but the things 
that are pleasant; but if one pleases God, he becomes incident- 
ally well pleasing to good men. How then could such an one any 
longer take delight in eating and drinking and sexual pleasure, 
when he is suspicious even of discourse that is productive of 
pleasure, and of any mental excitement and exercise of will that 
causes delight? For "no man can serve two masters, God and 

3i Stoic definition of wisdom. Cf. Ill, 52-53* 

33 Gal, i:ia ** Rom. 8:8. 



ON SPIRITUAL PERFECTION 139 

mammon." 35 This he says, not meaning money simply, but the 
provision that money supplies for the various kinds of pleasure. 
For indeed it is impossible for him who has a high and true 
knowledge of God to be a slave to the pleasures that are contrary 
to him. 

72. There is then one alone who is free from desire to begin 
with, viz., the Lord, who is the lover of men, who for our sakes 
became man; but all that are eager to be assimilated to the 
stamp given by him, strive to become free from desire by train- 
ing. For he who has felt desire and has gained the mastery over 
himself, like the widow also, becomes virgin again through 
chastity. This is the reward of knowledge 36 to the Saviour and 
Teacher, which he himself asked for his own, viz., abstinence 
from all evil and activity in well-doing, by which means salva- 
tion is procured. As, then, they that have learnt the arts get 
their livelihood by the training they underwent, so the gnostic 
gets spiritual life by his knowledge and is saved. For he who re- 
fuses to eradicate the passion of his soul causes his own death. 
But ignorance, as it seems, is the starvation of the soul and know- 
ledge its sustenance. And the gnostic souls are those which the 
gospel likened to the sanctified virgins who wait for their Lord. 37 
For they are virgins as having abstained from evil and awaiting 
their Lord through love, and they are wise souls, since they 
kindle their own fight to see the real facts, saying, "We long to 
receive thee, O Lord, at last: we have lived according to thy 
commandments, we have transgressed none of thy precepts: 
wherefore also we claim thy promises; and we pray for what is 
expedient for us, feeling that it is unfitting for us to ask of thee 
the highest rewards: even though they may seem to be evil, we 
will receive as expedient all the trials that meet us, whatever 
they may be, which thy ordering employs for our training in 
steadfastness." 

73, The gnostic indeed has risen to such a pitch of holiness 
that he is ready rather to pray and fail than to succeed without 
prayer. For all his life is prayer and communion with God, and 
if he is free from sins he will assuredly receive what he desires. 
For God says to the righteous: "Ask and I will give to thee; 
think and I will do it. 5 ' 38 If, then, what he asks is expedient, he 
will receive it at once; but things inexpedient he will never ask 

35 Luke 16:13. 

36 John 4:36; I Cor. 9:18; cf. Isa. 53:11; John 17:3, 15, 17. 

37 Matt. 25:1 ff. 

38 The same quotation occurs in Strom., VI, 78; 101; cf. VII, 49. 



140 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

for, and therefore will never receive: so he will always have what 
he desires. And if we should be told that sinners sometimes suc- 
ceed in their prayers, on the one hand this occurs but rarely, 
because God's goodness is always just, and on the other hand it 
is to those who are able to benefit others that this favour is 
shown. Hence the gift is not bestowed for the sake of the 
petitioner, but the divine ordering has a foresight of the person 
who will be saved by his means, and thus reasserts the character 
of justice in the benefit imparted. But to such as are worthy, the 
things that are truly good are granted even without the asking. 
When, then, a man is righteous, not from compulsion or fear or 
hope, but of choice, this is called the King's high- way 39 traversed 
by the King's seed; but the others are all by-ways, slippery and 
precipitous. At any rate, if the motives of fear and honour were 
removed, I know not whether our brave outspoken philosophers 
would still be able to hold out against their troubles. 

74. Now lusts and other sins have been called briars and 
thorns. 40 The gnostic therefore toils in the Lord's vineyard, 41 
planting, 42 pruning, watering, being indeed a divine husband- 
man for those who have been planted in the faith. They, then, 
who have not done evil expect to receive a reward for doing 
nothing, but he who has done good from choice alone claims the 
reward as a good labourer. Doubtless he will receive also a 
double reward, partly for what he has not done and partly in 
return for his good actions. Such a gnostic is tempted by none, 
except it be through divine permission, and that for the benefit 
of his associates. At any rate they are encouraged to believe, 
being cheered by his manly endurance. Doubtless it was for 
this cause also that the blessed apostles were brought to give 
proof and witness of perfection with a view to establishing and 
confirming the churches. Since the gnostic, then, has ringing in 
his ears the voice which says, "Do thou show pity to him whom 
I shall smite," 43 he prays for the repentance even of those that 
hate him. For the punishment of criminals, which is carried out 
in the amphitheatre, is a spectacle unsuited even for children. 
As for the gnostic it is impossible that he should be instructed or 
delighted with such shows, since he has trained himself of set 
purpose to be noble and good, and has thus become insensible 
to pleasure. As he never falls under the power of sins, he is not 
corrected by examples of other men's evils. Much less can he be 

39 Num. 20:17. 4 Jer. 4:3; Matt. 13:7; Heb. 6:8. 

4i Isa. 5:75 Matt. 21:33. 42 I Cor. 3:6, 

43 Qf. perhaps Job 19:21; Ps. 69:27. 



ON SPIRITUAL PERFECTION 14! 

satisfied with the pleasures and spectacles of earth, who thinks 
little even of the promises, divine though they be, of worldly 
blessings. "Not everyone 35 therefore "that saith Lord, Lord, 
shall enter into the kingdom of God, but he that doeth the will 
of God." 44 And such would be the gnostic labourer, who has the 
mastery over his worldly desires^ even while he is still in the 
flesh, and is so fully persuaded with regard to the unseen future 
which he knows, that he holds it to be more immediately present 
than the things which are actually before him. 

75. This is the capable labourer, who rejoices in his know- 
ledge, but humbles himself for his entanglements in the neces- 
sities of life, being not yet held worthy of the active participation 
in those things which he knows. Thus he uses this life as some- 
thing foreign to him, merely as an unavoidable necessity. He 
understands too the hidden meanings of the fasting of these 
days, I mean of Wednesday and Friday: 46 for the one is dedi- 
cated to Hermes, the other to Aphrodite. At any rate he makes 
his life a fast both from love of money and love of pleasure, 
which are the springs of all the vices; for I have often ere now 
pointed out 47 that, according to the apostle, the generic 
varieties of fornication are three, viz., love of pleasure, love of 
money and idolatry. 

76. Accordingly he fasts both from evil deeds according to 
the law and from wicked thoughts according to the perfection 
of the gospel. He is also subjected to trials, not for his own puri- 
fication, but, as we said, 48 for the benefit of his neighbours, if, 
after experience of labours and troubles, he is seen to despise 
and disregard them. The same is to be said about pleasure: the 
great thing is to abstain from pleasure after having had experi- 
ence of it. For what credit is it to practise self-control, where 
pleasure is unknown? The gnostic carries out the evangelical 
command and makes that the Lord's day on which he puts 
away an evil thought and assumes one suited for the gnostic, 
doing honour to the Lord's resurrection in himself. Moreover 
when he gets hold of a scientific principle, he believes that he 
sees the Lord, while he directs his eyes to the unseen; and if he 
fancies that he sees what he is unwilling to see, he chides the 
faculty of vision whenever he is conscious of a feeling of pleasure 
at the visual impression; since he desires to see and hear nothing 
but what beseems him. For instance, while contemplating the 
souls of his brethren, he sees also the beauty of the flesh with the 

44 Matt. 7:21. 45 Tit. 2:12. 46 Cf. Didache, 8:1. 

47 Strom., Ill, 89:1; VI, 147:1; Eph. 5:5. 48 C above, para. 74. 



142 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

soul itself, which has been trained to look on beauty alone apart 
from fleshly pleasure. 

77. And brethren indeed they are according to the elect 
creation and the similarity of disposition and the character of 
their actions, where thought and word and deed manifest that 
same holiness and beauty which the Lord willed them, as elect, 
to have in mind. For faith is shown in the choice of the same 
things, and knowledge in having learnt the same and keeping 
them in mind, and hope in desiring the same. And if, owing to 
the necessities of life, some slight portion of his care is occupied 
about food, he thinks he is defrauded by such distraction. Thus 
he never sees even a dream which is unsuited to an elect soul. 
For verily a stranger and pilgrim 49 all his life through is every 
one who, dwelling in a city, despises the things that others ad- 
mire in it, and lives in it as though it were in a desert, that he 
may not be constrained by locality, but that his own free will 
may show him to be just. To sum up, such a gnostic fills the 
vacant place of the apostles by his upright life, his exact judg- 
ment, his assistance of the deserving, by removing mountains 50 
from the hearts of his neighbours and casting down the in- 
equalities of their souls; though indeed each one of us is his own 
vineyard and his own labourer. He however, even in his best 
actions, desires to escape the eyes of men, as long as he persuades 
the Lord and himself that he lives according to the command- 
ments, preferring those things on which he believes that his life 
depends. "For where a man's heart is," says one, "there is his 
treasure also." 51 Through the perfection of his love he im- 
poverishes himself that he may never overlook a brother in 
affliction, especially if he knows that he could himself bear want 
better than his brother. 

78. At any rate he esteems the other's grief as his own pain: 
and if he suffers any inconvenience through his kindness in maK- 
ing provision out of his own deficiency, he is not vexed at this, 
but only increases his bounty still further. For he has a faith un- 
mixed with doubt, faith concerning the realities, while he com- 
mends the gospel both in his actions and in his thoughts. And 
verily the praise he reaps is not from men but from God, 52 as he 
fulfils the Lord's instructions. Being attracted by the eternal 
hope, he tastes not the fair things of this world, but disdains all 
that belongs to this life. He pities those who undergo discipline 
after death and are brought to repentance against their will by 

49 Heb. 11:13. 50 I Cor. 13:2. si Matt. 6:21. 

Rom. 2:29; John 5:41-44. 



ON SPIRITUAL PERFECTION 143 

means of punishment, while he is himself of good conscience as 
regards his departure and is ever ready for it as being a pilgrim 
and a stranger 53 to this present world, remembering only his 
own inheritance and regarding all things here as alien. And, as 
he not only admires the commandments of the Lord, but is 
made, so to speak, a partner of the Divine Will by actual know- 
ledge, he is a true intimate of the Lord and of his com- 
mandments, elect as righteous, fitted as gnostic for rule and 
sovereignty, despising all the gold that is upon the earth and 
under the earth, and the sovereignty which extends from one 
end of the ocean to the other, so as to hold fast to the one service 
of God. Wherefore also both in eating and drinking and in 
marrying, if reason so dictates, and even in his dreams, his 
actions and his thoughts are holy, so that he is always purified 
for prayer. He prays also with angels, as being already equal to 
angels, 54 and never passes out of the holy keeping; even if he 
prays alone he has the chorus of saints banded with him. Such 
a man is aware of a twofold energy, the one that of him who be- 
lieves, the other the deserved pre-eminence of him who knows, 
since righteousness also is twofold, the one caused by love, the 
other by fear. 

79. Certainly we are told that the fear of the Lord is pure, 
enduring for ever. 55 For they who turn to faith and righteous- 
ness from fear endure for ever. For instance fear brings about 
abstinence from evil, while love prompts us to do good, building 
us up to a willing mind, in order that one may hear from the 
Lord the words, "No longer do I call you servants, but friends," 56 
and may thenceforward join with confidence in the prayers. 
And the form of his prayer is thanksgiving for what is past and 
what is present and what is future, as being already present 
through his faith: and this is preceded by the acquisition of 
knowledge. Moreover he prays that he may so live his appointed 
time in the flesh as a gnostic and as one free from the flesh, and 
that he may obtain the best things and escape the worse: aye, 
and he prays for us, that we may be comforted about our sins 
and may be converted to knowledge. No sooner does he hear the 
the Master's call to depart, than he follows it; nay, owing to his 
good conscience even leads the way so to speak, hastening to 
offer his sacrifice of thanksgiving, and being joined with Christ 
there, to make himself worthy from his purity to receive by in- 
ward union the power of God which is supplied through Christ. 
For he does not desire to be warm through borrowed warmth or 
53 Heb. 11:13. 54 Luke 20:36. 55 PS. I9: g. se John 15:15. 



144 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

luminous through borrowed fire, but to be altogether light him- 
self. Such an one knows accurately the word that is spoken. Un- 
less ye hate your father and mother, aye, and your own life also., 
and unless ye bear the sign. 57 For he both hates the lusts of the 
flesh with their potent spell of pleasure, and disdains all that 
belongs to handicraft and the support of the flesh; nay he rises 
up against the corporeal soul, putting a bit in the mouth of the 
irrational spirit when it breaks loose, because the flesh lusteth 
against the spirit. 58 But to bear the sign 59 is to carry about 
death 60 whilst still alive, having renounced all, 61 since higher 
love is due to him who created the soul for knowledge than to 
him who begot the body. 

80. When he has once formed the habit of doing good, the 
gnostic loses no time in benefiting others also, praying that he 
may be reckoned as sharing in the sins of his brethren 62 with a 
view to the repentance and conversion of his kinsfolk, and eager 
to impart his own good things to those whom he holds dearest. 
And his friends for their part feel the same for him. Thus he 
helps the growth of the seeds deposited with him according to 
the husbandry enjoined by the Lord, and continues without sin 
and acquires self-control and lives in the spirit with those who 
are like him in the choirs of the saints, even though he be still 
detained on earth. Throughout the day and night he is filled with 
joy uttering and doing the precepts of the Lord, not only at 
dawn on rising, and at midday, but also when walking and 
lying down, dressing and undressing; and he teaches his son, 63 
if his child be of that sex, never losing hold of the commandment 
and the hope, giving thanks always to God, like the creatures 
which give glory to God in Isaiah's allegory. 64 Patient under 
every trial he says: "The Lord gave, the Lord hath taken 
away." 65 For such also was Job, he who despising the loss of his 
outward prosperity, surrendered everything else along with his 
bodily soundness, owing to his love to the Lord. For it says he 
was upright and holy and eschewed all evil. 66 But the word 
"holy" implies that his whole management of life was just in 
things pertaining to God; and his knowledge of these things 
made him a gnostic. For neither, if good things come, should a 
man be engrossed by them, seeing they are merely human, nor 
again should he quarrel with them, if evil, but should be 
superior to both, treading the one under his feet, and passing 

57 Luke 14:26, 27. 58 Gal. 5:17. 59 Luke 14:27. o H Cor. 4:10. 
<si Luke 14:33. 62 Cf. Ex. 32:32; Rom. 9:3 Deut. 6:7; 11:19. 

64 Isa. 6:3. job 1:21. <>6 Job in. 



ON SPIRITUAL PERFECTION 145 

on the other to those who are in need. But let the gnostic be 
guarded in accommodating himself to others, lest accommoda- 
tion should imperceptibly change into inclination. 

CHAPTER XIII 

81. He never remembers those who have sinned against him, 
but forgives them; wherefore also he has a right to pray: "For- 
give us, for we forgive." 67 For this too is one of the things which 
God desires, that we should covet nothing and hate none/ 8 for 
all mankind are the work of one Will. And perhaps our Saviour, 
in desiring that the gnostic should be perfect as the Father in 
heaven, 69 that is, as himself our Saviour, who says, "Come ye 
children and I will teach you the fear of the Lord" 70 desires 
that the gnostic should no longer need the help given through 
the angels, 7 ^ but being made worthy should receive it from him- 
self, and have his protection from himself by means of his 
obedience. The prayer of such an one is the claiming of a 
promise from the Lord. And in the case of his brethren who are 
in need the gnostic will not ask a superfluity of wealth for him- 
self to distribute, but will pray that there may be to them a 
supply of what they need. For so he not only gives his prayer to 
the needy, but he provides that which comes through prayer in 
a secret and unostentatious manner. Poverty indeed and disease 
and such-like trials are often used for admonition, with a view 
to produce both amendment of the past and care for the future. 
In virtue of the prerogative of knowledge, such an one becomes 
an instrument of the Divine Goodness by asking for relief for 
the sufferers, and himself does the kind action, not from vain- 
glory, but simply because he is a gnostic. 

82. We are told in the Traditions that the apostle Matthias 72 
was wont to say on occasion: "If the neighbour of an elect per- 
son sins, it is the fault of the elect; for if he had conducted him- 
self as reason dictates, his neighbour's reverence for such a life 
would have prevented him from sinning." What shall we say 
then about the gnostic himself? "Know ye not," says the apostle, 
"that ye are the temple of God?" 73 The gnostic therefore is al- 
ready holy and divine, carrying God within him and being car- 
ried by God. Certainly the Scripture represents sin as something 

67 Matt. 6: 12. <* Cf. Basilides in Strom., IV, 86: i. 

69 Matt 5:48. 70 p s . 34:11. 71 p s . 91:11. 

72 Cf, Strom., Ill, 26, above; VII, 108, below. 73 I Cor. 3:16. 



146 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

alien, where it sells to the strangers those that fall away. 74 And 
by the words "Look not with desire on another man's wife, 3 ' 7 * 
it tells us in plain terms that sin is alien and contrary to the 
nature of the temple of God. Now the temple is either large like 
the Church or small like the individual who keeps safe the seed 
of Abraham. 76 He then who has God enthroned within him will 
not desire anything else. At any rate, leaving behind all hin- 
drances and scorning all the distractions of matter, he cleaves 
the heaven by his wisdom, and having passed through the 
spiritual entities and every rule and authority, 77 he lays hold of 
the throne on high, speeding to that alone, which alone he 
knows. So blending the serpent with the dove 78 he lives per- 
fectly and with a good conscience, faith being mixed with hope 
as regards the expectation of that which is to come. For he feels 
that he has been made worthy to obtain the gift which he re- 
ceived, and that he has been translated from servitude to son- 
ship 79 in accordance with his understanding, being on the one 
hand not without a knowledge of God (or rather being known 
by him), 80 and on the other hand showing in the end the effects 
thereof in a manner worthy of the grace received. For works 
follow knowledge, as the shadow the body. 

83. Being then fully assured that it will be better for him 
after his decease, he has good reason for not being troubled at 
anything that happens, nor is he suspicious of any of those 
things which come to pass for good according to the divine 
order; and since his conscience is void of offence, he does not 
shrink from appearing before the unseen powers after his death, 
having been purged, so to speak, from every stain of the soul. 
Hence he never prefers the pleasant or the expedient to the 
divine order, but trains himself by means of the commandments 
that he may be both well-pleasing to the Lord in all things and 
praiseworthy as regards the world, since all things rest upon the 
one Almighty God. It was to his own, we read, the Son of God 
came and his own received him not. 81 Wherefore also in his use 
of the things of the world he is not only full of thankfulness and 
of admiration for the creation, but he also receives praise him- 
self for using it as he ought, since it is through intelligent action, 
in obedience to the commands, that the gnostic arrives at the 
goal of contemplation. From this point he advances, ever gather- 
ing from science new food for contemplation, and having em- 

74 Gf. Judg. 2:1 1-14, etc. 75 Cf. Matt. 5:28; Prov. 6:24, 25. 

76 John 8:33 ; Gal. 3:29, etc.; I John 3:9. 7? Eph. 1:21; 6:12. 

78 Matt. 10:16. 79 Rom. 8:15. so Gal. 4:9. si John 1:11. 



ON SPIRITUAL PERFECTION 147 

braced ^ with enthusiasm the great idea of knowledge, till at last 
he receives the holy reward of his translation 82 hence. For he has 
heard the psalm which says, "Walk about Sion and encompass 
it, declare in the towers thereof"; 83 the meaning of which is, I 
suppose, that those who receive the word in a lofty spirit will be 
lofty as towers, and will stand securely both in faith and in 
knowledge. 

CHAPTER XIV 

84. Let thus much be said in the briefest possible terms about 
the gnostic to the Greeks as seed for further thought. Though 
the simple believer may succeed in one or other of the points 
mentioned, yet it must be remembered that he cannot do so in 
all, nor with perfect science like the gnostic. And further, of our 
gnostic's apathy, if I may use the term, according to which the 
perfecting of the believer advances through love, till it arrives 
at the perfect man, at the measure of the stature, 84 being made 
like to God and having become truly equal to the angels 85 
of this apathy many other evidences from Scripture occur to me 
which I might adduce, but I think it better to defer so ambitious 
an attempt owing to the length of the discussion, leaving the task 
to those who are willing to take pains in elaborating the doc- 
trines by extracts from Scripture. One Scripture however I will 
briefly refer to, so as not to leave the topic altogether unnoticed. 
The divine apostle says, in his earlier epistle to the Corinthians, 
"Dare any of you, having a matter against another, go to law 
before the unjust, and not before the saints? Know ye not that 
the saints shall judge the world, etc.? 5 ' 86 As the paragraph is 
very long, I will set forth the meaning of the apostle's utterance 
by making use of such of the apostolic expressions as are most to 
the point, giving in the most concise language a rapid para- 
phrase of the passage where he describes the perfection of the 
gnostic. For he not only defines the gnostic's position as con- 
sisting in submitting to wrong rather than in inflicting wrong on 
another, but he also teaches him to forget injuries, not even 
allowing him to pray against him who has done the wrong; for 
he knows that the Lord also gave a plain command that we 
should pray for our enemies. 87 The assertion then that the in- 
jured party goes to law before the unjust, 88 shows nothing else 
than a desire to retaliate and a willingness to commit a second 

s* Heb. 11:5. 83 Ps. 48:12. 84 Eph, 4:13. ** Luke 20:36, 

8<s I Cor. 6:1, 2. ^ Matt, 5:44. 88 I Cor. 6:6. 



148 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

wrong, that is, to be himself equally in fault. But the statement 
that some wish to go to law before the saints indicates those who 
ask in prayer that their oppressors may be requited for their 
extortion; it shows too that though the latter are better than the 
former, still they are not yet free from passion, unless they en- 
tirely forget their wrongs and pray even for their enemies, 
according to the teaching of the Lord. 

85. It is well then that they should also come to a better 
mind by repentance to faith. For if the truth seems to have 
enemies in those who provoke her to jealousy, 89 still she is in no 
wise hostile to any herself. For as "God causes his sun to shine 
upon the just and the unjust," 90 aye, and sent the Lord himself 
to just and unjust, so he who strives to be made like to God 
through the absence of all malice "forgives seventy times seven 
times" 91 (i.e., as one might say, throughout his whole life and 
the entire cosmical revolution signified by the reckoning of 
sevens) and shows kindness to every one, even though some con- 
tinue to ill-treat the gnostic all the time of their life here in the 
flesh. For it is not only the judgment of those who have wronged 
him that the apostle requires the virtuous man to leave to 
others; he even desires that the just man should ask from those 
judges the forgiveness of their sins for those who have offended 
against him; and with good reason, seeing that they who attempt 
injustice damage only what is external and concerned with the 
body, even though it should go to the extent of death; but none 
of such things properly belongs to the gnostic. And how could 
one judge the apostate angels 92 if he is himself an apostate from 
the gospel rule that we are to forget injuries? "Why do ye not 
rather take wrong?" he continues, "why do ye not rather suffer 
yourselves to be defrauded? Nay, ye do wrong" (namely, by 
praying against those who offend in ignorance) and, so far as 
in you lies, "ye defraud" of the goodness and kindness of God 
those against whom ye pray, "and that your brethren" 93 (refer- 
ring hereby, not only to those who are brethren by faith, but to 
those also who are strangers among you). 86, For we know not 
yet whether even he who is at present hostile may not hereafter 
believe. From which we clearly gather, if not that all are 
brethren, yet that to us they should seem such. And further, 
that all men are the work of one God, invested with one likeness 
upon one nature (though in some the likeness may be more con- 
fused than in others) the recognition of this is reserved for the 

89 Deut. 32:21; I Cor. 10:22. 90 Matt. 5:45. 91 Matt. 18:22. 

92 I Cor. 6:3. 93 I Cor. 6:7, 8. 



ON SPIRITUAL PERFECTION 149 

man of understanding, who through the creation adores the 
Divine energy, through which again he adores the Divine Will. 

"Or know ye not that wrong-doers shall not inherit the king- 
dom of God? 5 ' 94 He then is a wrong-doer who retaliates either 
by deed or w r ord or by the wish in the heart, which is excluded 
by the Gospel after the schooling of the law. 95 "And such were 
some of you" such, manifestly, as those still are whom you 
refuse to pardon "but ye washed yourselves," 96 not simply 
like the rest, but with knowledge you cast off the passions of the 
soul, so as to become assimilated to the goodness of the Divine 
Providence, to the best of your power, both by long-suffering 
and by forgiveness, causing the gentleness of your word and 
deeds to shine like the sun upon just and unjust 97 alike. The 
gnostic will attain this result either by his own greatness of mind, 
or by imitation of one who is better than himself; and there is a 
third cause denoted by the word: "Forgive and it shall be 
forgiven you," 98 where the command seems to compel to salva- 
tion through its exceeding goodness. But ye were sanctified. 99 
For he who has attained such a habit as this, must necessarily 
be holy, never falling into any passion in any way, but being, as 
it were, already freed from the flesh and having reached a 
holiness above this world. 

87. Wherefore, he says, "ye were justified by the name of the 
Lord"; 99 ye were, so to speak, made by him to be just, as he is 
just, and ye were intimately joined with the Holy Spirit, so far 
as it is possible for man. For does he not say, "All things are 
lawful for me, but I will not be brought under the power of 
any," 1 so as to do or think or speak anything contrary to the 
gospel? "And meats are for the belly and the belly for meats, but 
the Lord shall destroy them," 2 that is, all who so reason and live 
as if they were born for eating, instead of eating to live as a 
subordinate aim, but devoting themselves to knowledge as their 
principal aim. And perhaps he means that these are, as it were, 
the fleshy parts of the Holy Body, the Lord's Church being 
figuratively described as a body, 3 viz., that spiritual and holy 
choir, of whom those who are only called by the Name and do 
not live accordingly constitute the flesh. But this spiritual body, 
i.e., the holy Church, is not for fornication nor must it be con- 
nected in any possible sort or way with the apostasy from the 
gospel to the life of the heathen. 

94 I Cor. 6:9. 95 Gal. 3:24. 96 I Cor. 6:11. 97 Matt. 5:45. 

98 Matt, 6:14; Polyc., Phil, 2; Clem. Rom., Ep. ad Cor., I, 13. 

99 I Cor, 6:n. 1 I Cor. 6:12. 2 I Cor. 6:13. 3 Eph. 1:23. 



150 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

88. For he who behaves like a heathen in the Church, 
whether in act or word or even merely in thought, commits 
fornication against the Church and against his own body. 4 He 
that is joined to this harlot 5 (viz., the activity which is contrary 
to the covenant) , for one flesh 6 and for a heathenish life and 
another hope, becomes another body which is not holy; but he 
that is joined to the Lord after a different kind of union, in 
spirit, is a spiritual body. He is wholly a son, a holy man, pas- 
sionless, gnostic, perfect, being formed by the Lord's teaching, 
in order that he may be brought close to him in deed and word 
and in his very spirit, and may receive that mansion 7 which is 
due to one who has thus approved his manhood. 

This may serve as a sample for those that have ears. For we 
must not divulge the mystery, but only indicate it so far as to 
recall it to those who have been partakers in knowledge, who 
will also understand what is the meaning of the Lord's saying, 
"Be ye perfect as your Father is perfect," 8 perfectly forgiving 
sins and forgetting injuries, and being habitually free from pas- 
sion. For as we speak of a perfect physician and a perfect philo- 
sopher, so, I suppose, we may speak of a perfect gnostic; but 
none of these perfections, to whatever height it may attain, is 
regarded as coming into comparison with God. For we do not 
agree with the impious opinion of the Stoics as to the identity 
of human and divine virtue. 9 Perhaps, then, we ought to be as 
perfect as the Father wishes us to be: for it is impracticable and 
impossible that any one should be as perfect as God is; but our 
Father wishes that we should arrive at an unimpeachable per- 
fection by living according to the obedience of the gospel. If 
then, since the saying is incomplete, we supply what is wanting 
for the completion of the passage, the explanation of which has 
been left to those who are capable of understanding, we shall 
both recognize the will of God and shall live a life of piety and 
aspiration, in a manner worthy of the commandment. 

CHAPTER XV 

89, The next thing is to reply to the charges brought against us 
by Greeks and Jews. And since the different schools in other 
departments of learning take their part in some of the difficulties 
raised, similarly to the above mentioned, it may be well to begin 
by clearing away obstacles and then to proceed to the next 

* I Cor. 6:18. * I Cor. 6:16. <s I Cor. 6:16. ? John 14:2. 

8 Matt. 5:48. Cf. Origen, contra Celsum, IV, 29; VI, 48. 



ON SPIRITUAL PERFECTION 15! 

Miscellany fully prepared for the solution of the difficulties. The 
first charge they allege is this very point, that the diversity of 
sects shows belief to be wrong, for the voice of truth is drowned 
amid the din of conflicting assertions. To whom we reply that, 
both among you Jews and among the most approved of the 
Greek philosophers, there have been multitudes of sects, yet of 
course you do not say that one should hesitate to be a philo- 
sopher or a follower of the Jews on account of the internal dis- 
cord of your sects. 10 In the next place it was prophesied by the 
Lord that the seed of heresy would be sown upon the truth like 
tares upon wheat 11 (and what was prophesied cannot but come 
to pass), the cause of this being that the beautiful is always 
shadowed by its caricature. 12 

90. What then? If some one is guilty of breaking his engage- 
ments 12 * 1 and neglecting his agreement with us, shall we let go the 
truth ourselves on account of him who has been false to his 
agreement? No, the good man must be true to his word and not 
belie any promise, however much others may break their en- 
gagements. And just so, we ought in no way to transgress the 
rule of the Church. Above all the confession which deals with 
the essential articles of the faith is observed by us, but dis- 
regarded by the heretics. Those, then, are to be believed who 
hold firmly to the truth. Using this defence broadly we are now 
entitled to reply to them, that physicians also, though holding 
different opinions in accordance with their particular schools, 
are still equally engaged in the practice of healing. Does then 
any one who is suffering in body and needs medical treatment 
refuse to call in a physician owing to the diversity of medical 
schools? So neither should he who is diseased in soul and full of 
idols plead the heresies as his excuse in regard to the recovery of 
health and conversion to God. Aye, and we are told that 
heresies are for the sake of those who are approved; 13 and by 
"approved" is meant either those who are coming to the faith, 
if they show unusual discrimination in approaching the teaching 
of the Lord (like the approved money-changers 14 who dis- 
tinguish the spurious from the legal coin by the false stamp), or 

10 CF. Origen, contra Celsum, III, 12. 

11 Matt. 13:25. 

12 Clement seems to be quoting some tag. 

12* Cf. Strom. VII, 51 and note on Origen, DiaL c. HeracL 130 (below, 

p. 440). 

I Cor. 11:19. 

I* Clement quotes a saying of Jesus not recorded in the Gospels but fre- 
" quently cited by early Christian writers (cf. Resch, Agrapha, 116-127). 



152 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

those who are in the faith itself, and have already approved 
themselves therein, both by their life and their knowledge. 

91. It is for this reason therefore that we need more attention 
and consideration to determine how we should live with strict- 
ness, and what is true piety. For it is evident that the trouble 
and difficulty of ascertaining the truth have given rise to ques- 
tionings, from whence spring vain and self-willed heresies, when 
man have not learnt or really received knowledge, but have 
merely got a conceit of it. We must therefore spend more 
thought in searching for the very truth, which alone has for its 
subject the very God. And sweet are the discovery and the re- 
membrance which attend on toil. The effect of the heresies 
should therefore be to make one buckle to the toil of discovery 
and not to abandon it altogether. So too, if we have set before 
us on the one hand ripe natural fruit, and on the other fruit of 
wax made to resemble it as closely as possible, we ought not to 
abstain from both on account of their similarity, but to dis- 
tinguish the real from the apparent both intuitively and by 
strict process of reasoning. And just as, if there were only one 
royal road, but many by-roads, some leading to a precipice, 
some to a rushing torrent, or deep sea, a man would not hesitate 
to travel because of this diversity, but would make use of the 
king's safe highway; so we must not give up our search because 
there are different views as to the truth, but must hunt all the 
more earnestly for the most exact knowledge concerning it. For 
even among the herbs of the garden weeds spring up, but the 
husbandmen do not therefore desist from gardening. Since then 
nature supplies us with many helps for testing the things we are 
told, we ought also to discover the harmony of the truth. Hence 
we are rightly condemned if we withhold our assent to the things 
which we ought to believe, because we fail to distinguish what 
is incongruous and unseemly and unnatural and false from what 
is true and consistent and seemly and natural; and these helps 
we should make full use of in order to gain a knowledge of the 
real truth. 

92. This is therefore an idle excuse on the part of the Greeks: 
for those who desire it will be able also to discover the truth, 
while those who put forward irrational grounds have no excuse 
for their judgment. 15 For what is their view of demonstration? 
Do they deny that there is such a thing or do they admit it? I 
suppose all would admit it except those who deny the evidence 
of the senses. But if there is such a thing as demonstration they 

15 Rom. 2:1. 



ON SPIRITUAL PERFECTION 153 

must descend to investigation and be taught demonstratively 
from the Scriptures themselves how the heretical schools went 
astray, and how it is only in the true and the ancient Church 
that there is the most exact knowledge and the really best school 
of thought. But of those who turn aside from the truth some try 
to deceive themselves only; others to deceive their neighbours as 
well. They, then, who are termed "wise in their own conceit/* 
those, I mean, who think they have discovered the truth without 
any true demonstration; these men deceive themselves, thinking 
to have attained rest: and of such persons there is no small num- 
ber, men that avoid inquiry for fear of being refuted and also 
flee from instruction because it condemns themselves. But those 
who try to impose on their followers are utterly unscrupulous, 
who, being well aware that they are absolutely without know- 
ledge, nevertheless darken the truth with plausible sophisms. 
But in my opinion, the nature of such sophisms is entirely distinct 
from that of true arguments. Further, we know that it is neces- 
sary to give the terminology of the heresies in order that the 
truth may be clearly distinguished from them. For the sophists 
steal certain fragments of the truth for the injury of mankind 
and bury them in the human systems they have themselves de- 
vised, and then glory in presiding over what is rather a school 
than a Church. 

CHAPTER XVI 

93. But they who are willing to work for the noblest prizes will 
not relinquish their search for truth, until they obtain the proof 
from the Scriptures themselves. Now there are certain criteria 
common to all men, such as the senses; while the other tech- 
nical criteria acquired by thought and reasoning, to distinguish 
between true and false arguments, are confined to those who 
have made truth their aim and practice. But the chief thing is to 
get rid of self-conceit, taking a position midway between exact 
science and rash opinionativeness, and to recognize that he who 
hopes for the eternal rest knows also that the entrance to it is 
toilsome and strait. 16 But let not him who has once received the 
gospel and, as it says, embraced salvation with joy 17 in the hour 
when he became acquainted with it let not him, I say, "turn 
back like Lot's wife," 18 nor recur to his former life which was 
devoted to the things of sense, nor yet to the heresies, for they in 
a sort imitate the heathen, not knowing the true God. For "he 
16 Matt. 7:14. " Matt. 13:20. Luke 17:31, 32. 



154 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

that loveth father or mother more than me," 19 i.e., than the 
true Father and teacher of the truth, who regenerates and re- 
creates and nourishes the elect soul "he," saith he, "is not 
worthy of me," worthy, that is, to be a son of God and at once 
a disciple and friend and kin to God. For "no man who looks 
backward and puts his hand to the plough is fit for the kingdom 



But, just as most people even now believe, as it seems, that 
Mary ceased to be a virgin through the birth of her child, 
though this was not really the case for some say that she was 
found by the midwife to be a virgin after her delivery 21 (94) so 
we find it to be with the Lord's Scriptures, which bring forth 
the truth and yet remain virgins, hiding within them the 
mysteries of the truth. "She has brought forth and has not 
brought forth, 5 ' 22 says the Scripture, speaking as of one who had 
conceived of herself and not from another. Wherefore the Scrip- 
tures are pregnant to the gnostics, but the heretics, not having 
examined them, dismiss them as barren. And though all men 
have the same faculty of judgment, some find their grounds for 
belief in following the dictates of reason, while others surrender 
themselves to pleasures and wrest the Scripture to suit their 
desires. But, methinks, the lover of truth needs energy of soul; 
for they who set themselves to the greatest tasks must meet the 
greatest disasters, unless they have received the canon of the 
truth from the truth itself. And such persons, having fallen 
away from the right path, generally go wrong in particulars 
also, as might be expected, because they have no criterion of 
truth and falsehood accurately trained to make the right choice. 
Otherwise they would have believed the divine Scriptures. 

95. As if, then, one were to become a beast instead of a man, 
like those who were changed by Circe's drugs, 23 so is it with 
him who has spurned the tradition of the Church and has sud- 
denly taken up with the fancies of human sects; he has lost the 
character of a man of God, and of enduring trust in the Lord, 
But he who has returned from this deceit, after hearing the 

is Matt. 10:37. 20 Luke 9:62. 

21 For the story of the midwife, cf. Protevangelium of James, 19-20 (M. R. 
James, Apocr. JV.T*., 46); for perpetual virginity of Mary, Origen, in 
Matt., X, 17. 

22 Cf. Tertullian, De Carne Chris ti, 23, "legimus apud Ezechielem de vacca 
ilia quae peperit et non peperit," (Probably from the apocryphal Ezekiel; 
M. R. James, J.T.S., XV (1914) 240; Karl Holl, Gesammelte Au/satze, 
II, 36.) 

23 Homer, Odyssey, X, 235 f. 



ON SPIRITUAL PERFECTION 155 

Scriptures, and has turned his life to the truth, such an one 
becomes in the end as it were a god instead of a man. For in the 
Lord we have the first principle of instruction, guiding us to 
knowledge from first to last "in divers ways and divers por- 
tions 5 ' 24 through the prophets and the gospel and the blessed 
apostles. And, if any one were to suppose that the first principle 
stood in need of something else, it could no longer be really 
maintained as a first principle. He then who of himself believes 
the Lord's Scripture and his actual voice is worthy of belief, 
being one who would be naturally moved by the Lord to act 
for the benefit of men. Certainly we use it as a criterion for the 
discovery of the real facts. But whatever comes into judgment is 
not to be believed before it is judged, so that what is in need of 
judgment cannot be a first principle. With good reason there- 
fore having apprehended our first principle by faith without 
proof, we get our proofs about the first principle ex abundanti 
from the principle itself, and are thus trained by the voice of the 
Lord for the knowledge of the truth. For we pay no attention 
to the mere assertions of men, which may be met by equally 
valid assertions on the other side. If, however, it is not enough 
just simply to state one's opinion, but we are bound to prove 
what is said, then we do not wait for the witness of men, but we 
prove the point in question by the voice of the Lord, which is 
more to be relied on than any demonstration, or rather which is 
the only real demonstration. From this science it comes that, 
while they who have but tasted of the Scriptures are believers, 
the gnostics, who have made further progress, are accurate 
judges of the truth; since even in the ordinary concerns of life 
craftsmen have an advantage over laymen, and give shape to 
finer models far surpassing common ideas. 

96. So too we, obtaining from the Scriptures themselves a 
perfect demonstration concerning the Scriptures, derive from 
faith a conviction which has the force of demonstration. And 
though it be true that the heretics also have the audacity 
to make use of the prophetic Scriptures, yet in the first place 
they do not use them all, and in the second place they do not 
use them in their entirety, nor as the general frame and tissue 
of the prophecy suggest; but picking out ambiguous phrases, 
they turn them to their own opinions, plucking a few scattered 
utterances, without considering what is intended by them, but 
perverting the bare letter as it stands. For in almost all the pas- 
sages they employ, you will find how they attend to the words 

z:z. 



156 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

alone, while they change the meaning, neither understanding 
them as they are spoken, nor even using in their natural sense 
such extracts as they adduce. 

But the truth is discovered not by altering the meanings of 
words (for by so doing they will subvert all true teaching), but 
by considering what is perfectly fitting and appropriate to the 
Lord and the Almighty God, and by confirming each thing that 
is proved according to the Scriptures from similar passages of 
the Scriptures themselves. Hence they are neither ready to turn 
to the truth, being ashamed to derogate from their own import- 
ance, nor have they any way of setting forth their own opinions 
but by doing violence to the Scriptures. Having hastily pub- 
lished to the world their false doctrines, which are palpably at 
variance with almost all the Scriptures, and being always con- 
futed by our opposing arguments, they still even now persist in 
their refusal to accept some of the prophetic writings; while on 
the other hand they accuse us of inability to understand what is 
peculiar to them, as though we were quite of another nature; 
and at other times they are driven to deny even their own doc- 
trines, being ashamed to confess openly what in private they 
boast of teaching. 

97. For so we shall find it to be in all the heresies, when we 
examine the iniquities of their doctrines. When they are refuted 
by plain proof on our part that they are opposed to the Scrip- 
tures, you may see the upholders of the doctrine in question 
taking one or other of two courses: they either make light of the 
consistency of their own doctrines, or they make light of 
prophecy itself, in other words, of that which constitutes their 
own hope; preferring on each occasion that which commends it- 
self to their own reason, rather than that which was spoken by 
the Lord through the prophets and is attested and confirmed by 
the gospel as well as by the apostles. Perceiving, then, that it was 
not merely a single doctrine which was at stake, but the keeping 
up of their heresies, and having no desire to discover the truth 
for after reading the books we commonly use in public, they 
despised them as worthless and aiming simply to exceed the 
common rule of the faith, they abandoned the truth. For being 
ignorant of the mysteries of the knowledge of the Church, and 
incapable of apprehending the grandeur of the truth, they were 
too sluggish to penetrate to the bottom of the matter, and so 
laid aside the Scriptures after a superficial reading. 

98. Being elated therefore by a conceit of wisdom they are 
constantly quarrelling, showing that they care more to be 



ON SPIRITUAL PERFECTION 157 

thought philosophers than to be** so i n reality. For instance, 
though they lay no foundation of necessary principles, but are 
moved simply by the opinions of men, yet afterwards they labour 
to make the conclusion follow necessarily on their premises, and, 
for fear of being confuted, keep sparring with those who pursue 
the true philosophy. And their vanity impels them to endure 
everything, and stir every stone, as the phrase is, even going to 
the length of impiety through disbelieving the Scriptures, rather 
than surrender their heresy and the much-talked-of precedence 
in their assemblies, for the sake of which they so eagerly affect 
the first couch** i n the drinking-bout of their mis-named 
Agape. 27 But the knowledge of truth, which is found among us 
Christians, supplies, from what is already believed, faith for 
what is not yet believed faith which is, so to speak, the sub- 
stance of demonstration. On the other hand, it seems that heresy 
of every kind has absolutely no ear for what is expedient, but 
listens only to what is pleasurable; otherwise a heretic might 
have been healed, if he had only been willing to obey the truth. 
Now conceit, like every other ailment, requires a three-fold 
freatment^ there must be a knowledge of the cause, and of the 
w . a y. * n . wkic* 1 tn i s ma Y be removed, and thirdly there must be 
discipline of the soul and the training which enables us to follow 
what is judged to be right. 

99. For, as a^ clouded eye, so too the soul that is confused by 
unnatural opinions is unable to discern accurately the light of 
truth, but sees amiss even what lies before it. Certainly we are 
told that eels also lose their sight and are easily caught in turbid 
water. 28 And just as naughty children lock out their tutor, so the 
heretics shut out the prophecies from their church, holding them 
in suspicion because they convict and admonish them. I grant 
they patch up many lying inventions to give a sort of decent 
excuse for their neglect of the Scriptures; and herein they show 
their want of piety, quarrelling as they do with the divine com- 
mands, that is, with the Holy Spirit. And as we call almonds 
empty, not only when they have nothing in them, but when 
what is in them is worthless, so we say that the heretics are 
empty of the divine purposes and of the traditions of Christ, 

25 Aesch., Sept. c. 77i., 577; cf. Plato, Rep., 361 B. For the quarrelsome 
behaviour of the heretical sects, cf. Celsus in Origen, contra Celsitm, III, 10; 
V, 63. 

2 Matt. 23:6. 

n On the riotous love-feasts of the sects, cf. Strom., Ill, 10: Paedag., IL 4:3-4.. 

28 Aristotle, Hist. Anim., VIII, 2 (592 A, 6 f.). 



158 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

because they are the authors of dogmas which are in truth as 
bitter as the wild almond, except in so far as the clearness of the 
truth made it impossible for them to set aside or conceal it. 

100. As, then, in war the soldier must not leave the post 
assigned to him by the general, so neither must we leave the 
post to which we are appointed by the Word, whom we have 
received as our captain both of knowledge and of life. But the 
greater part of men have not inquired whether they ought to 
follow any guide, and, if so, when and how he should be 
followed. For as is the word, such too should the life 29 of the 
believer be, so as to be able to follow God, as he holds his un- 
swerving path 30 in all things from the beginning. But when a 
man breaks his word and so sins against God, if his weakness 
was due to a sudden impression, he must take care to have 
reasonable impressions in readiness; but if he is mastered by a 
habit that has gained dominion over him, and has so become 
what the Scripture calls gross, 31 he must put an absolute stop 
to the habit and train his soul to resist it. And if there are 
some who seem to be attracted by contradictory opinions, they 
must gradually get rid of them, and resort to those who can 
introduce harmony 32 of opinions, those who can charm the 
timid and inexperienced with the spell of the divine Scriptures, 
making the truth plain by means of the agreement of the Testa- 
ments. But, as it seems, we incline rather to the common 
opinion, though it may involve contradiction, than to the 
truth with its sternness and severity. 

Again of the three different mental conditions, ignorance, 
conceit, knowledge, ignorance is the characteristic of the 
heathen, knowledge of the true Church, conceit of the heretics. 
101. Certainly one does not find scientific men making more 
positive and definite assertions about the objects of their know- 
ledge, than these men about their opinions, so far as depends on 
unproved assertion. At any rate they despise and laugh at one 
another; and it sometimes happens that the same interpretation 
is held in the highest honour by one set and regarded as insane 
by another. And further we have learnt that there is a difference 
between voluptuousness, which must be assigned to the 
heathen, and strife which we must adjudge to the heresies, and 
on the other hand between joy which one must appropriate to 
the Church, and gladness which must be imputed to the true 
gnostic. And just as Ischomachus will make those who attend 

29 Stoic maxim. 30 Plato, Legg., 716 A. 

3i Ex. 1:7. 32 Matt. 5:9. 



ON SPIRITUAL PERFECTION 159 

to his instructions husbandmen, and Lampis sea-captains, and 
Charidemus commanders, and Simon horsemen, and Perdix 
hucksters, and Grobylus cooks, and Archelaus dancers, and 
Homer poets, and Pyrrho wranglers, and Demosthenes orators, 
and Chrysippus logicians, and Aristotle men of science, and 
Plato philosophers, 33 so he who obeys the Lord and follows the 
prophecy given through him, is fully perfected after the likeness 
of his teacher, and thus becomes a god while still moving about 
in the flesh. 

It is from such a height, then, that they fall who do not follow 
God wherever he may lead them, and he leads them by way of 
the inspired writings. 34 Certainly, though the number of human 
actions is infinite, it may be said that there are only two causes of 
all failure, both of which are in our own power, viz., ignorance 
and weakness on the part of those who are neither willing to 
learn nor to gain the mastery over their desires. The former 
makes men judge wrongly, the latter prevents them from follow- 
ing out right judgments; for neither could any one act rightly if 
he were deceived in his judgment, even though he were per- 
fectly able to carry out his determinations; nor on the other hand 
w 7 ould he show himself blameless if he were a weakling in act, 
whatever might be his capacity to discern what was right. 

1 02. Corresponding to these there are also two kinds of dis- 
cipline provided, suitable for either class of failings; for the one, 
knowledge and the plain proof derived from the witness of the 
Scriptures; for the other, training according to reason controlled 
by faith and fear: and both of these grow up into perfect love. 
For the end of the gnostic on earth is in my opinion twofold, in 
some cases scientific contemplation, in others action. 

Would that even these heretics would take a lesson from these 
suggestions and be reformed and turn to the Almighty God! 
But if, like deaf adders, they refuse to listen to the charm, 35 new 
in form, but most ancient in substance, may they at any rate 
undergo the divine discipline, submitting to the corrections of 
their heavenly Father before the Judgment, until they become 
ashamed and repent, instead of rushing headlong into utter 
condemnation through their stubborn disobedience! For there 
are also partial forms of discipline, which are called chastise- 
ments, into which most of us, who have trespassed from among 
the Lord's people, slip and fall. But as children are chastened 

33 Similar list of teachers in Aelian, Var. fast., TV? 16 (perhaps from the same 
source as that followed by Clement). 

34 Gf. II Tim. 3:16. 35 PS, 58:4, 5. 



l6o CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

by their teacher or their father, so are we by Providence. For 
God does not take vengeance (for vengeance is a retaliation of 
evil), but he chastens with a view to the good, both public and 
private, of those who are chastened. These things I have set 
forth, desiring to turn aside from their proclivity to heresy those 
who are eager to learn; but as for others, I have used these argu- 
ments out of a longing desire to make them cease from the pre- 
vailing ignorance or stupidity or ill condition or whatever it is 
to be called, and endeavouring to persuade and bring over to 
the truth those who are not yet altogether incurable. 

103. For there are some who absolutely refuse to give ear to 
those who urge them to seek the truth: aye, and they aim at 
smartness, pouring out blasphemous words against the truth, 
while they credit themselves with the possession of the highest 
knowledge, though they have not learnt or sought or laboured 
or discovered the harmony of truth men who excite our pity 
rather than our hate for such perverseness. But if any one is still 
curable, able to endure the plain-speaking of the truth, when it 
burns and cuts away their false opinions, like the cautery or the 
knife, let him lend an attentive ear. And this will be so unless, 
in their slothfulness, they thrust away the truth, or through 
ambition press after novelties. For those are slothful who, having 
it in their power to provide the fitting proofs for the Divine 
Scriptures from the Scriptures themselves, nevertheless select 
what is exclusively favourable to their own pleasures; and those 
are ambitious who, of set purpose, explain away by other 
spurious arguments the beliefs which attach to the inspired 
words, beliefs handed down by the blessed apostles and teachers, 
and thus oppose divine tradition with human doctrines in order 
to establish their heresy. For indeed what place was left among 
the great men of old I mean, according to the judgment of the 
Church for Marcion, say, or Prodicus 36 or the like, who 
walked not along the straight road? For they could not have 
surpassed in wisdom the men that went before, so as to discover 
something beyond what had been truly spoken by them; but 
might have been well content if they had been able to under- 
stand what had been already handed down. 

104. We find, then, that the gnostic alone, having grown old in 
the study of the actual Scriptures, guards the orthodox doctrine 
of the apostles and the Church and lives a life of perfect recti- 
tude in accordance with the gospel, being aided by the Lord to 
discover the proofs he is in search of both from the law and the 

36 Gf. above III, 30; VII, 41. 



ON SPIRITUAL PERFECTION l6l 

prophets. For the life of the gnostic, as it seems to me, is nothing 
else than deeds and words agreeable to the tradition of the Lord. 
"But knowledge belongeth not to all." 37 "For I would not have 
you ignorant," says the apostle, "that all were under the cloud 
and partook of spiritual meat and drink," 38 evidently arguing 
that not all who hear the word have been capable of under- 
standing the greatness of knowledge, both in deed and word. 
Wherefore also he added, "But he was not well pleased with 
all." 39 Who is meant by "he"? It is he who said, "Why call ye 
me 'Lord,' and do not the will of my Father?" 40 the teaching, 
that is, of the Saviour, which is our spiritual food 41 and a drink 
that knows no thirst, 42 the water of gnostical life. 43 "Aye," say 
they, "we are told that 'Knowledge puffeth up. 5 " 44 To whom 
we reply, perhaps seeming knowledge is said to puff up, if it is 
supposed that the interpretation of the word is self-conceit. But 
if, as is rather the case, the apostle's language means to have 
lofty and true thoughts, then the objection vanishes. Let us 
however confirm what has been said by following the Scriptures. 
105. "Wisdom," says Solomon, "inspirited her own chil- 
dren." 45 Assuredly the Lord did not infuse conceit by means of 
the particular courses of instruction; but faith in truth and con- 
fidence in the knowledge handed down through the Scriptures, 
make a man disdain the seductions to sin; and it is this disdain 
that is signified by the term "inspirited": it teaches the sub- 
limity of the wisdom implanted in children by learning. At any 
rate the apostle says, "And I will know not the speech of them 
that are 'inspirited/ but the power," 46 whether ye have a lofty, 
that is, a true understanding of the Scriptures 47 (for nothing is 
higher than truth); for herein lies the power of the "inspirited" 
children of wisdom; meaning something of this sort, "I shall 
know whether ye take a just pride in knowledge." For, as David 
says, "In Judah is God known," 48 i.e., to those who are Israel- 
ites according to knowledge. For Judah is by interpretation 
"Confession." With reason therefore has it been said by the 
apostle, "This, thou shalt not commit adultery, thou shalt not 
steal, thou shalt not covet, and if there be any other command, 
it is briefly comprehended in this saying, Thou shalt love thy 
neighbour as thyself." 49 For we must never adulterate the truth, 
nor steal the rule of the Church, as those who follow the 

37 I Cor. 8:7. 38 I Cor. 10:1-4. 39 I Cor. 10:5. 

40 Luke 6:46; Matt. 7:21. 41 I Cor. 10:3. John 4:14. 

43 Rev. 22:17. 44 1 G r ' 8:1. 45 Ecclesiasticus 4:11. 

46 I Cor. 4:19. 47 Luke 24:45. 48 p s . 7 6:i. 49 R O m. 13:9, 

A.C. 1 1 



l62 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

heresies, gratifying our own desires and ambitions with a view 
to the deception of our neighbours, whom we ought to love above 
every thing and teach to cling to the truth itself. At any rate it 
has been expressly said, "Tell among the heathen his doings/' so 
in order that those who have been thus forewarned may not be 
judged, but may be converted. But as many as flatter with their 
tongues 51 have their punishments prescribed. 

CHAPTER XVII 

1 06. They, then, who engage in impious words and introduce 
them to others, and make no good use, but an utterly wrong use, 
of the divine words, such men * 'neither enter themselves into the 
kingdom of God, nor permit 5 ' 52 those whom they have deceived 
to attain to the truth. Nay, they have not even got the key 53 of 
the door themselves, but only a false or, as it is commonly 
called, a skeleton key, which does not enable them to throw 
open the main door, 54 and enter, as we do, through the tradi- 
tion of the Lord; but they cut a side door and break secretly 
through the wall of the Church; and so overstepping the bounds 
of truth, they initiate the soul of the impious into their mysteries. 
For it needs no long discourse to prove that the merely human 
assemblies which they have instituted were later in time than 
the Catholic Church. For the teaching of our Lord, during his 
life upon earth, begins under Augustus and Tiberius, and is 
completed in the middle of the reign of the latter, and the preach- 
ing of his apostles, at least up to the end of Paul's ministry, is 
completed under Nero; while the heresiarchs began quite late, 
about the time of the emperor Hadrian, and lasted to the age of 
Antoninus the elder, as was the case with Basilides, in spite of 
his claiming to have been taught by Glaucias, whom they them- 
selves boast to have been the interpreter of Peter. So too they 
report that Valentinus heard Theodas, who was a disciple of 
Paul. 107. For Marcion, who lived about the same time, asso- 
ciated with them as an elder with his juniors. After him 
Simon was for a short time a hearer of Peter. 54a 

Such being the case, it is evident that these later heresies and 
those which are still more recent are spurious innovations on the 
oldest and truest Church. From what has been said I think it 

so Ps. 9:11. 5i PS. 5:9. 52 Matt, 23:14. 

53 Matt. 16:19; Luke 11:52. 54 John 10:1 fT. 

54* Of. Acts 8. "After him" is probably corrupt. Read perhaps "Only 
Simon . . ." (Wilamowitz). Nothing is known of Theodas or Glaucias. 



ON SPIRITUAL PERFECTION 163 

has been made plain that unity is a characteristic of the true, 
the really ancient Church, into which those that are righteous 
according to the divine purpose are enrolled. For God being 
one and the Lord being one, that also which is supremely hon- 
oured is the object of praise, because it stands alone, being a 
copy of the one First Principle: at any rate the one Church, 
which they strive to break up into many sects, is bound up with 
the principle of Unity, We say, then, that the ancient and Catho- 
lic Church stands alone in essence and idea and principle and 
pre-eminence, gathering together, by the will of one God 
through the one Lord, into the unity of the one faith, built upon 
the fitting covenants (or rather the one covenant given at dif- 
ferent times) all those who are already enlisted in it, whom God 
foreordained, having known before the foundation of the 
world 55 that they would be righteous. And, further, the pre- 
eminence of the Church, like the principle of its constitution, is 
in accordance with the Monad, surpassing all other things 
and having nothing like or equal to itself. 

1 08. Of this we shall speak on a future occasion. But of the 
heresies some are called after the name of the founder, as that 
which is called after Valentinus, and Marcion, and Basilides, 
though the last sect professes to cite the opinion of Matthias. 56 1 
say "professes," for, as the teaching, so also the tradition of all the 
apostles has been one and the same. Other heresies are called 
from the place where they arose, as the Peratici; others from 
their nationality, as the Phrygian heresy; others from their prac- 
tice, like the Encratites; others from peculiar opinions, as the 
Docetae and Haematitae; others from the personages they 
admire, as the Cainites and those who are styled Ophites; 
others from their unblushing immoralities, as the so-called 
Entychitae among the Simonians. 

CHAPTER XVIII 

109. Before closing my discourse I should like, for the benefit of 
the more speculative members of the Church, to throw a little 
light from the sacrificial law, concerning clean and unclean 
beasts, in reference to the ordinary Jews and the heresies which 
are mystically distinguished, as unclean, from the Church of 
God. We are taught by the Scriptures that the victims which 
divide the hoof and chew the cud are clean 57 and acceptable to 
God, implying that the righteous make their approach to the 
55 Eph. 1 14-5. 56 Cf. note on Strom., VII, 82, above. 57 Lev. x 1:3 f. 



164 CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 

Father and the Son through their faith for in this consists the 
stability of those that divide the hoof and that they study and 
ruminate the oracles of God 58 by night and day 59 in the mental 
receptacle of knowledge, which being also a kind of gnostic 
discipline, is figuratively described in the law as the chewing of 
the cud by a clean animal. But those who are wanting in both or 
even in one of these qualifications are rejected. For instance, 
those which chew the cud without dividing the hoof signify the 
Jews generally, who have the oracles of God 58 in their mouth, 
but have not the firm footing of faith stayed upon truth, which 
carries them to the Father through the Son. Whence this class 
of creatures is liable to slip, as is natural where the foot is not 
parted and they are not stayed upon the doubleness of faith. 
For we read: "No one knows the Father but the Son, and he to 
whom the Son may reveal him." 60 On the other hand, those 
too are unclean which divide the hoof without chewing the cud. 
For this phrase denotes the heretics who take their stand on the 
name of the Father and of the Son, but have no power to bring 
out the exact perspicuity of the oracles by subtle distinctions 
and by smoothing away of difficulties, while their prosecution 
of the works of righteousness, if they prosecute them at all, is 
rough and careless rather than exact. 

no. It is to some such persons that the Lord says: "Why call 
ye me Lord, Lord, and do not the things which I say?' 561 But 
those who do not divide the hoof nor chew the cud are utterly 
unclean. As Theognis says, "You Megarians are neither in the 
third class, nor even the twelfth, nor in any number or account 
whatever; but are like the chaff which the wind scattereth from 
the face of the earth, 62 and as a drop of a bucket." 63 > 64 

Having completed this introduction, and given a summary 
outline of ethical philosophy, wherein we have scattered the 
sparks of the doctrines of the true knowledge dispersedly here 
and there, as we promised, so that it should not be easy for the 
uninitiated who came across them to discover the holy tradi- 
tions; let us pass on to our general argument. 

in. Now it seems that what are known as Miscellanies are 
not to be compared to ornamental parks with rows of ordered 

5 8 Rom. 3:2; Num. 24:16. 59 p s . I: 2. tf> Luke 10:22. 

61 Luke 6:46. 62 Ps. 1:4 63 Jsa. 40:15. 

64 The quotation is wrongly ascribed to Theognis. The Megarians asked the 
oracle who were the most important people in Greece, and were told they 
were not in the reckoning at all. Gf. H. Chadwick on Origen, contra 
Celsum, IV, 31. 



ON SPIRITUAL PERFECTION 165 

plantations to please the eye, but rather to some thickly wooded 
hill, overgrown with cypresses and planes and bay-tree and ivy, 
and at the same time planted with apple-trees and olives and figs, 
the cultivation of fruit-bearing and of woodland trees being inten- 
tionally mingled together, since the Scripture desires to with- 
draw from observation on account of those who venture secretly 
to steal its fruits. It is by transplanting the suckers and trees 
from these preserves that the gardener will furnish a beautiful 
park and pleasure-ground. Our Miscellanies therefore make no 
pretence of order or of choice diction, seeing that in this kind 
of composition the Greeks purposely object to over-sweetness of 
style, and sow their doctrines secretly and not in a plain, un- 
mistakable manner, seeking to exercise the diligence and 
ingenuity of the readers, if there should be such. For we must 
provide a large variety of baits owing to the varieties of fish. 
And now, having concluded our seventh Miscellany, we will 
make a new start in our discussion of what is to follow. 65 

<5 5 Clement wrote no more of the Stromateis, for what reason we do not know. 
The so-called VII I th book is not a continuation, and consists of notes, 
perhaps a rough draft for lectures. It does not bear signs of having been 
intended for publication. 



ORIGEN 



ABBREVIATIONS 

The following abbreviations have been used, in addition to 
others which it is unnecessary to explain. 

A.N.F. Ante-Nicme Fathers, ed. A. Roberts and J. Don.aldscr% 

Edinburgh, 1864, and Buffalo, 1885. 

Anonymous Notes on the De Oratione of Origen by an anony- 
mous English scholar, included in the edition of "W. Rea-cfog. 
Bigg C. Bigg, The Christian Platonists of Alexandria^ Oxford, 3 9 3. 
C.jB. (Corpus Berolinense)'. Die 

der ersten drei Jahrhunderte, Berlin, 1897. 
C.F. (Corpus Vindobonense): Corpus Scriptorwn 

Latinorwn, Vienna, 1866. 
D.A.C.L. Dictionnaire d* Archeologie Chretienne et de Lilurg^ e<L 

F. Cabrol and H. Leclerq, Paris, 1907. 
D.C.B. Dictionary of Christian Biography, ed. W. Smith acid 'H., 

Wace, London, 1877. 
de Faye E. de Faye, Onglne> Sa Vie, Son (Euvn, Sa Pewse?^ 

3 vols., Paris, 1923-1928. 

Diels Doxographi Graeci> collegit H. Diels, Berlin, 1879. 
H.D.B.J. Hastings, Dictionary of the Bible., Edinburgh., 1898. 
H.E. Historia Ecclesiastica. 
I.C.C. International Critical Commentary, Edinburgh, 
J-T.S. Journal of Theological Studies , London, 1899. 
Koetschau P. Koetschau, Introduction to, and Text cdQ -flies 

De Oratione of Origen in, C.B. ii 3 pages kxv xc, and ill, 

297-403, Berlin, 1899. 
Lawlor and Oulton Eusebius, The Ecclesiastical History 

Martyrs oj Palestine^ H. J. Lawlor and J. E. L. Oulton 3 2 

London, 1927-1928. 

169 



170 ORIGEN 

Moulton Milligan J. H. Moulton and G. Milligan, Vocabul- 
ary of the Greek New Testament., illustrated from the Papyri and 
other non-literary Sources, London, 1914. 

N.PM.F.Nicene and Post-Nicene Fathers, ed. H. Wace and P. 
Schaff, Oxford and New York, 1890. 

P.G. J.-P. Migne, Patrologia, Series Graeca, Paris, 1857. 

P.L. J.-P. Migne, Patrologia, Series Latina, Paris, 1844. 

Rahlfs Septuaginta, ed. A. Rahlfs, third edition, Stuttgart, 

1949- 

Reading Gulielmus Reading, Origenis de Oratione Liber, Lon- 
don, 1728. 

T Codex in the Library of Trinity College, Cambridge, con- 
taining the Greek text of the De Oratione of Origen, complete 
apart from a few lacunae. 

T. W.N.T. Theologisches Worterbuch %um neuen Testament, ed. G. 
Kittel, Stuttgart, 1933. 

von Arnim Stoicorum Veterum Fragmenta 3 collegit loannes ab 
Arnim, 4 vols., Leipzig, 1903-1924. 

References to the following editions are to be assumed: 
Irenaeus, Adversus Haereses: W. W. Harvey 3 Cambridge, 1857. 
Origen: 

In Joh. A. E. Brooke, Cambridge, 1896. 

Philocalia. J. A. Robinson, Cambridge, 1 893. 



General Introduction 



THE MAIN FACTS OF ORIGEN's LIFE ARE WELL 
known to students of the history of the early Church, and 
a critical examination of them in detail is not called for 
here, in a context which is concerned rather with one of his 
writings. Inasmuch, however, as this is a devotional work, it 
may be appropriate, in a rapid sketch of his career, to dwell 
upon those facts in it which testify to that rich inner experience 
of which the treatise On Prayer is a notable expression. Origen 
was born about the year 1 86, and most probably in Alexandria, 
although we are never told so in so many words. The name 
"Origen" has been derived by some from the name of the 
Egyptian god Horus, the suggestion being that he was born on 
the anniversary day of that god; and, if this be correct, it would 
go far to show that at the time of his birth, his parents, or at least 
his father, were pagans. That this was probably so., other facts 
serve to suggest. When in 1202 a persecution against Jews and 
Christians suddenly burst out at Alexandria., Leonides, Origen's 
father, was arrested. Now this persecution, under Septimius 
Severus, was not aimed at extirpating Judaism or Christianity, 
but rather at propaganda at these religions making converts. 
Spartian 1 says that under a grave penalty Severus forbade Jews 
to make proselytes, and also issued a similar order against 
Christians. If then Leonides was a convert to Christianity of 
only a few years standing (for Origen was little more than a boy 
when the persecution broke out), we can understand how such a 
decree might, retrospectively, fall harshly upon such as he. In 
any case we may detect in the picture that Eusebius draws of 
Leonides 2 the fervent zeal of one who had come to embrace a 
i Severus, i6f. 2 VI, I:23 1-13, 

171 



172 ORIGEN 

new faith. He was at great pains not only to instruct the boy in 
the Scriptures, but also to give them a primary place in his 
studies. The boy's early proficiency in sacred learning filled the 
father with a delight which was none the less sincere because he 
felt it prudent to conceal it. Like many a parent, before and 
after him, he recognized with wonderment and yet with humble 
thankfulness that God had chosen him to be the father of a 
saint. 3 It is not difficult, in any case, to see in Leonides the 
primary, human, source from which Origen drew that fervent 
devotion to God to which the pages of On Prayer bear so eloquent 
a testimony, 

Of Origen's mother, and the part she played in his Christian 
upbringing, we know nothing. It can scarcely be urged against 
the sincerity of her faith that she strove to prevent her son from 
achieving his desire for martyrdom by the effective, if somewhat 
crude, method of hiding his clothes so that he could not leave 
the house by day. For indeed, at that early age he was not yet 
seventeen when his father suffered martyrdom Origen was 
filled, as Eusebius says, with "a zeal intense beyond his years." 4 
This manifested itself in various ways: in his refusal to have any- 
thing to do with heretics or heresies, even at the risk of offending 
a generous benefactress of his; in his open espousal of the cause 
of martyrs, on trial or in prison; and especially in his asceticism. 
De Faye, indeed, affirms that this was not derived from Chris- 
tianity, but from philosophy. Asceticism was "in the air," he 
says, an element in that religious syncretism which was so 
marked a feature of the Egypt of that time: and Origen in this 
followed the example of his day. 5 It is true that in describing 
Origen's asceticism Eusebius speaks of him as "living like a 
philosopher." 6 But he also expressly states that certain elements, 
at any rate, in his manner of life at that time found their express 
sanction in the gospel those sayings which exhort us not to 
provide two coats nor to use shoes, nor indeed to be worn out 
with thoughts of the future. 7 It was not, as we shall see, the only 
occasion on which a literal following of an evangelical command 
guided his conduct. 

Origen's gifts, and the need for their use at that time, decided 
at once what his career should be. The origins of the Catechetical 
School at Alexandria are obscure, but they seem to have been 
fortuitous. All we know is that a person named Pantaenus 
gathered round him a number of young men for the study and 

3 See the passage quoted on p. 186. 4 H.E., VI, 2:6. * I, 13. 

<s H.E f> VI, 3:9. 7 Jiid m) VI, 2:10: cf. Matt. 10:10, 6:34. 



GENERAL INTRODUCTION 173 

exposition of the Scriptures. Among them was Clement, who 
had arrived at Alexandria on his travels in search of knowledge, 
and having discovered Pantaenus had attached himself to this 
group of students. On the death of Pantaenus, Clement under- 
took the direction of the "School." Such a voluntary association 
of learners was not novel in the world of that day. We are not to 
think of it as a university or theological college in the modern 
sense of the term. All was free and unofficial. The authority 
exercised by the Head was auctoritas rather than potestas: the 
authority of the expert, of the teacher whose reputation, learning 
and skill in teaching were sufficient to create his clientele. Cle- 
ment had chosen Pantaenus as his teacher for that reason. And 
when Clement fled from Alexandria on the persecution of 
Severus (202-203), Origen was selected as his successor. It may 
be that the circumstances of the time created a limited choice. 
But in any case Origen was known to be Clement's most brilliant 
pupil, although apparently only his pupil for a short time. He 
was then under eighteen years of age; but all accounts speak of 
his precocity. His competence as a teacher was already recog- 
nized. His zeal was undaunted by the dangers that confronted 
an open profession of the Christian way of life. And so this boy 
succeeded to the "chair" of a venerable and learned teacher of 
over fifty years of age. 

From the first Origen appears to have been successful as Head 
of the School; and as time went on his reputation increased and 
more and more pupils came to him. Had the state of the Church 
at Alexandria been normal, the free and independent position 
that Pantaenus and Clement had enjoyed might have been his 
too. But persecution had driven from the city those to whom the 
instruction of catechumens would naturally have been en- 
trusted; and in their absence Demetrius, the Bishop of Alex- 
andria, committed to Origen alone that task. 8 Even then, all 
went happily at first, and none could have foreseen that the 
direct link with ecclesiastical authority would have had such 
tragic consequences. The School attracted pupils of greater 
proficiency and learning, so much so that whereas Origen had 
previously eschewed the teaching of pagan letters, and indeed 
is said to have sold off his " classical" books, he was now com- 
pelled to resume the study of Greek philosophy, 9 place it upon 
his curriculum, and assign the teaching of the less mature pupils 
to an assistant named Heraclas. 

It would appear to be during this period of expansion, 
* Eusebius, H.K, VI, 3:8. * Ibid., ch. 15, 18, 19. 



174 ORIGEN 

probably before 2 10, that Origen performed the act which was to 
be used by his subsequent detractors to his lasting disadvantage. 
Finding that pupils of both sexes were coming to his classes, "he 
took the saying There are eunuchs which made themselves eunuchs for 
the kingdom of heaven's sake in too literal and extreme a sense." 10 
It has been frequently remarked how strange it was that Origen, 
the allegorizer par excellence of the Scriptures, should in this in- 
stance have fallen into the opposite error. We have seen, how- 
ever, that previously he had based ascetic practices upon a 
literal interpretation of sayings in the Gospel; and few are abso- 
lutely consistent when it comes to applying Biblical principles 
to their own case. The truth probably is that by nature and dis- 
position Origen was inclined towards "severity to the body," 
and this tendency was reinforced by his Platonic idealism. Nor 
have we reason to believe that in the Alexandria of his day, or 
at any rate in the circle in which he moved, his action would 
necessarily be censured. Eusebius indeed says that "Demetrius 
got to know of it later . . . and while he marvelled exceedingly 
at him for his rash act, he approved the zeal and sincerity of his 
faith, bade him be of good cheer, and urged him to attach him- 
self now all the more to the work of instruction." 11 

The story of the worsening in relations between Demetrius 
and Origen cannot be told in detail, for sufficient materials are 
lacking, and we can only put forward probable reasons. Clearly 
the bishop had a right to supervise Origen's movements, since 
preparation of the catechumens (apart from the other teaching 
of the School) was a matter for which the Church authorities 
were ultimately responsible. But Origen' s fame was now becom- 
ing world- wide. He was invited to pay visits to other parts of the 
world, for example, to Arabia and Palestine; and when at 
Caesarea, although still a layman, was requested to discourse 
and expound the Scriptures publicly in the church there. We 
are left in no doubt of the fact that Demetrius resented this per- 
mission being given. He wrote that "such a thing had never 
been heard of, nor taken place hitherto, that laymen should 
preach in the presence of bishops." In defence of their action, 
Alexander, Bishop of Jerusalem, and Theoctistus, Bishop of 
Caesarea, point out that Demetrius's statement was incorrect, 
and from their own knowledge cite other instances of laymen 
being allowed by bishops to preach. 12 

This "incident," which took place about 215, passed off. 
Demetrius recalled Origen by letter, sending messengers to urge 
10 Eusebius, H.E., VI, 8:2. n Ibid., 8:3. Ibid., 19:17, 18. 



GENERAL INTRODUCTION 175 

his speedy return: and he resumed the work of the School as 
diligently as before. Clearly, however, Demetrius felt that his 
authority was being challenged; and it may be also that he was 
jealous of Origen's fame. A further reason for the bishop's action 
may have lain in the development of church order at that time 
at Alexandria. According to the famous, if much disputed, 
statement of Jerome, 13 down to the episcopates of Heraclas (the 
successor of Demetrius) and Dionysius the presbyters at Alex- 
andria always chose one of their number and styled him 
"bishop," apparently without consecration. If this be so, it may 
well be that during the long term of office of Demetrius (190- 
233), things at Alexandria were already moving towards such a 
system of monarchical episcopacy as encouraged Demetrius to 
emphasize his authority. 

The order of incidents connected with Origen's final depart- 
ure from Alexandria is uncertain, since the evidence of Eusebius 
and Photius and others does not tally at every point; but of the 
main facts, and their permanent result, we are left in little doubt. 
It is clear that even before he left Alexandria for good, con- 
siderable tension prevailed. The year was 231-232. Origen had 
then got as far as the fifth "tome" of his Commentary on John, 
and though, as he says, 14 "the storm at Alexandria" seemingly 
hindered his work, he succeeded in dictating what was given 
him to say, "for Jesus rebuked the winds and the waves of the 
sea." When he had proceeded some way upon the sixth tome, 
he "was rescued from Egypt, God who had brought out his 
people thence, delivering" him. It seems on the whole most 
probable that this deliverance came to him through a call to 
important work in Greece, to which he travelled by way of 
Palestine. 15 But while at Caesarea a momentous thing hap- 
pened. He was ordained presbyter by the bishops there; and if 
we are to follow at this point the translation, or paraphrase, of 
the Church History of Eusebius made by Rufinus, they were about 
to raise him to the episcopate, 16 when Demetrius, hearing of 
what was afoot, spread the information about his act of self- 
mutilation when a young man, for the purpose not only of stop- 
ping Origen's consecration but also of censuring even those who 
had raised him to the presbyterate. The action taken by 
Demetrius in Alexandria itself is obscure in its details, but it 
would appear that he summoned one or two synods of bishops, 

13 Ep., CXLVI, i. n In Joh., VI, 2. 

is Eusebius H.E., VI, 23:4: Lawlor and Oulton, II, 218. 

is "summo eum sacerdotio iam iamque dignum probarent." Ibid. 9 VI, 8:4. 



ORIGEN 

the upshot of which was that Origen was not only excluded 
from Alexandria but also deprived of the priesthood. His 
degradation was communicated to all bishops, and Jerome is 
our authority for stating that all endorsed it, with the exception 
of the Bishops of Palestine, Arabia, Phoenicia, and Achaia. 17 

This was the greatest spiritual crisis in Origen's life; and it is 
worthy of note that he met it like a true Christian philosopher. 
Though "the enemy" (i.e., Demetrius) "made war most bitterly 
against us by means of his new letters which were truly at en- 
mity with the gospel, and though he stirred up against us all the 
winds of wickedness, reason 18 called me to stand firm for the 
contest and to preserve the inner self, 19 lest haply evil thoughts 
should have power to bring the storm against my soul also, 
rather than to compose the rest of the book out of season before 
my mind had recovered its calm." 20 In other words, Origen's 
chief concern, in this situation, was to preserve his spiritual 
forces unbroken. De Faye has expressed this with sympathy and 
insight. "What appears to have caused him the most anxiety 
was not so much the consequences that might result from the 
furious campaign of Demetrius, as the effect that might be pro- 
duced in his own thoughts by so bitter and odious a conflict. 
Origen trembled, as he says, for his own soul. It might founder 
in the tempest. Elsewhere, he expresses himself more directly. 
He was afraid of being embittered, of getting into a passion, of 
replying by the same methods to the malicious insinuations and 
calumnies. Nevertheless, he emerged from the tempest intact. 
What was it that preserved him? He tells us with a clarity which 
leaves no room for any doubt. It was his mystical faith in Jesus. 
That, he is fully aware, lifted him above sentiments and passions 
which an injustice of this kind might easily have engendered in 
him." 21 

That Origen was successful in achieving this spiritual con- 
quest is also evident not only from his resumption of literary 
work generally but also from the treatise On Prayer in particular, 
which, as we shall see, 22 was composed in 233 or 234, that is, 
within a year or so of "the storm" at Alexandria which caused 
him to leave it and its old associations for ever and to settle down 
eventually at Caesarea. As he says himself, 23 the fiery darts of 

* 7 Ep,, 33:5; 84:10; but see p. 432 and the arguments there put forward for 

holding another view of the reasons for Origen's condemnation. 

is Or "the Word." i Lit,, "the guiding principle." 

20 In Jvh., VI, 2. 21 Origtne, I, 38, 39. 

42 P. 181. 23 / joh^ VI, 2. 



GENERAL INTRODUCTION 177 

the wicked had been quenched by God, his soul had become 
accustomed to what had happened, he had learned to bear with 
equanimity the attacks of his enemies, and, as it were, a period 
of calm weather had set in. And, as we shall also see, one of the 
features of the treatise is its insistence upon the right disposition 
of him who engages in prayer: he must come to it without dis- 
traction, without anger, without malice. 

The remainder of Origen's life can be summarized briefly 
here. Eventually he settled at Caesarea in Palestine and made 
it his home, certainly before 240. The intervening years were 
marked by much travelling, in the course of which he visited 
Athens, Ephesus, Antioch, Caesarea in Cappadocia, and also 
Tyre, with which he appears to have been associated more 
definitely. His reputation in general does not seem to have suf- 
fered as a result of "the storm" at Alexandria. Demetrius died 
soon afterwards, in 233, and he was succeeded by Origen 5 s old 
assistant in the School, Heraclas. Origen established another 
School at Caesarea, to which he attracted some of the most 
brilliant Christian pupils of that day, who were afterwards des- 
tined as bishops to mould the theology of succeeding centuries 
Gregory Thaumaturgus, Bishop of Neocaesarea in Pontus, who 
has left us a panegyric of his master, 24 his brother Athenodorus, 
Firmilian of Caesarea in Cappadocia, and others. He was also 
sought after as a consultant theologian on many occasions. We 
hear of him being called in to refute the errors of Beryllus, 
Bishop of Bostra, in Arabia, concerning the Person of Jesus 
Christ; and again, also in Arabia, about the soul and the resur- 
rection. 25 Within recent years the record 26 has been discovered 
of a discussion also held by Origen with a bishop named Hera- 
cleides and other bishops associated with him, coram populo, on 
the Father, the Son, and the soul. The editor 27 supposes that 
this also took place in Arabia. In all these it seems to have been 
assumed that Origen was the right person to give the correct 
and orthodox answers on the points in dispute. (Whether those 
answers would satisfy the Church today is another matter.) At 
the same time it would appear that Origen's soundness in the 
faith was not everywhere unchallenged. According to Eusebius, 
"he wrote to Fabian, and to very many other rulers of Churches, 
with reference to his orthodoxy ," 28 It is scarcely sufficient to 

24 See below, p. 179. Eusebius, H.E., VI, ch. 33, 37. 

2 * A translation, with introduction and notes, by the Rev. Henry Ghadwick, 

is included in this volume. 27 J. Scherer, Cairo, 1949. 

*8 H.E., VI, 36:4. 

A.C. 12 



178 ORIGEN 

suppose., as de Faye does, 29 that this was merely to repudiate falsi- 
fications of what he had actually said in public discussions. That 
he was sometimes misrepresented is undoubtedly true. But the 
phrase "very many other rulers of Churches" 30 suggests, on the 
evidence of his warm admirer, that Origen's teaching had, even 
in his own lifetime, given rise to widespread questioning. 

We need not seek to give a detailed account of Origen's life 
after his departure from Alexandria. Indeed the evidence upon 
which such an account could be based is lacking. It was, how- 
ever, the period of his most prolific literary activity. He had 
begun to write in 218, and even before 231 portions of two im- 
portant works, the De Principiis and the Commentary on John, 
had been completed. But after 231 not only were these works 
finished, but a great number of other commentaries were writ- 
ten, and, in addition, special works such as the treatise On 
Prayer, the treatise On Martyrdom and the long and important 
book Contra Celsum. Moreover, Origen had always been a fluent 
viva wee expounder of Scripture; but it was not until he was 
sixty years of age (c. 246) that he allowed his Homilies, as he 
called them, to be taken down in shorthand and published. 
These were of a simpler, more popular character, and were in- 
tended for those who could not follow the more difficult com- 
mentaries, from which, however, they differed in presentation 
rather than in fundamental ideas or doctrine. It is certain that 
only a fraction, perhaps one-third, of his enormous literary 
output is extant. 

The treatise On Martyrdom, written in 235, makes it clear that 
Origen, now a man of fifty, had not changed in his ideas since a 
boy as concerning the highest form of Christian witness. 
Martyrdom was in his opinion the supreme achievement of the 
Christian life. There can be little doubt that he would have 
desired this end for himself. But if martyrdom, in the commonly 
accepted sense of the term, was denied him, he may certainly be 
ranked high among the confessors. The persecution of Decius 
broke out in 249, and under it Origen suffered all but the ex- 
treme penalty. Eusebius speaks 31 of what he endured for the 
word of Christ, chains and tortures, punishments inflicted on 
his body, punishments as he lay in irons and in the recesses of 
his dungeon, and cruel stretching of his legs for many days on 
end in the stocks. But he survived all this, and so was enabled to 
encourage others, and especially the faint-hearted, by his ex- 

29 Ij 43. 3 De Faye omits to take in consideration these words, 

si H.E., VI, 39:4. 



GENERAL INTRODUCTION 179 

ample and his helpful words. No doubt his sufferings hastened 
his end, which took place, probably at Tyre, in 255, when he 
was sixty-nine years of age. 

De Faye says, of the treatise On Martyrdom, "veut-on con- 
naitre le chr6tien qu'etait Origene, c'est la qu'il faut le cher- 
cher." 32 The same might be said of the De Orations, which reveals 
Origen as a man of prayer, who was not content simply to deal 
with the matter of prayer in general (as he might have done in 
the circumstances), but was also anxious to speak of Christian 
prayer as taught by the Saviour, his words and his example, and 
what it involves for us who engage in it, both in the inner life 
and in the life of action. This, we hope, will be made plain in the 
Introduction and in the Treatise itself. But it may be well to 
illustrate this aspect of Origen from another source; and for this 
we may select the panegyric on Origen by Gregory Thauma- 
turgus, to which we have already referred. There is much in 
this composition which is artificial, rhetorical, and even ful- 
some. We cannot read it aright unless we relate it to similar 
compositions of the schools. Nevertheless, it is impossible not to 
recognize, under its exuberant verbiage, the genuine love of the 
writer for Origen as a teacher and a man. Here it will be suffi- 
cient to quote the closing section, 33 which has a special appro- 
priateness when we consider that it is addressed to the author 
of the De Oratione. Gregory and his brother, after many years of 
instruction under Origen, are about to leave for their own 
country; and Gregory bids his master farewell in these words: 
"Do thou, dear heart, arise and when thou hast prayed send us 
on our way. Having kept us safely when we were with thee by 
thy holy teaching, so continue to keep us safely when we are 
away from thee by thy prayers. Do thou commit and commend 
us continually; or rather commit us to him who led us to thee, 
even God, giving him thanks for all that has been granted us in 
the past, and imploring him still to lead us by his hand, to watch 
over us always in the days to come, to instil into our minds his 
precepts, and to fill us with that godly fear which will be the 
best guide of our steps in the future. For when we are gone from 
thee our service of him will lack that freedom which it had in 
thy company. Implore him to vouchsafe us some encouragement 
when we lose thy presence, to send us an angel to be our good 
conductor upon the way. And entreat him also to turn our 
steps and bring us back to thee; for that is the one thing above 
all else which should prove our consolation." 
32 I, 45. 33 I n Origenem Oratzo Panegyrica, ch. xix (P.G., X, noi). 



On Prayer 



INTRODUCTION 

THE OCCASION OF THE TREATISE ON PRAYER 

THE TREATISE On Prayer AND The Exhortation to 
Martyrdom are distinctive among the extant works of 
Origen as being occasional in respect of their composition, 
that is to say, they were called forth by the special needs of a 
particular incident. De Faye 1 styles them, happily enough, Merits 
de Circonstance. It was otherwise with the De Principiis, in which 
Origen deliberately attempted to give a systematic exposition of 
theology, or the Hexapla> the fruit of his textual studies, or the 
commentaries and homilies which he poured forth during his 
lifetime as an expounder of Holy Scripture. The Contra Celsum, 
although it was an answer to a particular book, the True Word 
of the philosopher Celsus, can hardly be ranked as an occasional 
writing, since it was composed about seventy years after the 
book to which it was a reply. But the Exhortation to Martyrdom 
was written for the immediate object of consoling and exhorting 
two of his friends who had been cast into prison for their faith. 
And the treatise On Prayer arose, similarly, out of a particular 
occasion. Just as I Corinthians may be said to have been written, 
at any rate in part, in order to answer certain questions put to 
Paul by the Corinthian Church or individuals in it, so also On 
Prayer arose, as we shall see, out of a specific question about 
prayer. In both cases, the answer in scope and fullness far trans- 
cended the limits which the particular situation necessitated. 

The year when On Prayer was written can be determined with 
more or less exactitude. 2 A topical allusion has been usually 
found in the language of XXVIII, 10: "Certain persons, I know 

1 1, 190. 

2 See Koetschau, I, lxxv~lxxvii De Faye follows Koetschau in the matter 
of date (I, 190, 191). 

180 



ON PRAYER l8l 

not how, arrogating to themselves powers beyond the priestly 
office, perhaps because they have no accurate grasp of the know- 
ledge that a priest should possess, boast that they are able to 
pardon even idolatry and to absolve adultery and fornication, 
on the ground that by means of prayer offered for those who 
have committed these deeds even the sin unto death is absolved. 33 

The most obvious reference in this is to be found, not to 
powers exercised by martyrs and confessors (who were not 
necessarily priests), but to Callistus, Bishop of Rome (c. 217- 
223), who was accused by the rigorist party of that day, and 
notably by Hippolytus, of laxity in the matter of pardons and 
absolutions; and since the plural ("certain persons") is used, the 
reference is extended to include the successors of Callistus, 
namely, Urbanus (223-230) and Pontianus (230-235), under 
whom the Hippolytean schism is supposed to have continued. 
With this controversy, at any rate in its earlier stages, Origen 
was personally acquainted, for he visited Rome about the year 
212, and listened, at least on one occasion to the preaching of 
Hippolytus, who at that time was engaged in his feud against 
Zephyrinus, the predecessor of Callistus, whom Zephyrinus had 
made his archdeacon. 3 Origen's temperament would naturally 
lead him to support the rigorist party. 

Literary allusions in the treatise serve to date it more exactly. 

(1) In XXIII, 4, Origen refers to his comment on the passage 
Gen. 3:8, 9. Now the Commentaries on Genesis were begun at 
Alexandria, and eight volumes were written there, 4 the remain- 
ing four being added at Caesarea. In the twelve volumes he only 
covered the first four chapters of Genesis. 5 The comment on 
Gen. 3:8, 9 can hardly therefore have been in one of the earlier 
volumes; and in any case he speaks of the Commentaries on 
Genesis as a completed work: "we have treated these matters at 
length in our Commentaries on Genesis." This places the treatise 
On Prayer after his removal to Caesarea, i.e., after 231 or 232. 

(2) There is a reference in XV, i, in the words "as is shown else- 
where," to the tenth tome of the Commentary on John. 6 The 
present tense is taken by Koetschau and de Faye to indicate that 
this Commentary was still in process of being written. In any 
case tomes vi-xxii were written, after Origen had left Alex- 
andria, in Caesarea, and, according to Koetschau, between 232 
and 235. Therefore 233 or 234 may be conjectured as the date 
of the composition of the treatise On Prayer* (3) Further, in this 

3 Lawlor and Oulton, II, 201. 4 Eusebius, H.E., VI, 24. 

5 Contra Celsum, VI, 49. X, 37 (21); Brooke, I, 230. 



l82 ORIGEN 

treatise there is no reference to martyrdom, although the oppor- 
tunity to do so is not lacking. 7 This is a reason for placing its 
composition before the persecution of Maximin (235-237). 

The immediate occasion of the treatise was a letter addressed 
to Origen by his friend Ambrose, in association with a lady 
named Tatiana, which stated, either on their own behalf or on 
that of others, certain objections and difficulties in regard to the 
practice of prayer. 8 From this letter Origen quotes a passage 
which makes it quite clear what was the nature of the difficulties 
urged against it. "First: if God knows the future beforehand, 
and it must come to pass, prayer is vain. Secondly: if all things 
happen according to the will of God, and if what is willed by 
him is fixed, and nothing of what he wills can be changed, 
prayer is vain." 9 

Had Origen been acquainted with Milton, he might have 
pointed out to Ambrose and Tatiana that such questions were 
discussed and discussed in vain by the fallen angels, who: 

reasoned high 

Of Providence, foreknowledge, will, and fate, 
Fix'd fate, free will, foreknowledge absolute. 
And found no end, in wandring mazes lost. 10 

But to evade a difficulty, or to give it up as insoluble, was 
never Origen's way; and least of all could he have adopted such 
a method towards a request made by Ambrose. He was, of 
course, none other than his devoted patron, friend, and admirer, 
to whom he owed both the incentive to produce books (if indeed 
Origen needed any such incentive) and also the abundant 
means to produce them. As to the incentive, Origen playfully 
refers to Ambrose as his task-master or slave-driver (epyo- 
SIOUKTT??: Ex. 3:7; 5:6-14); and in a fragment of a letter 
printed by Delarue (I, 3) gives a lively picture of his impor- 
tunities. "The holy Ambrose . . . supposing that I am a zealous 
worker and utterly athirst for the word of God, convicted me by 
his own zeal for work and passion for sacred studies ... for 
neither when we are engaged in collating can we take our meals, 
nor, when we have taken them walk and rest our bodies. Nay, 
even at the times set apart for these things we are constrained to 
discourse learnedly and to correct our manuscripts. Neither can 
we sleep at night for the good of our bodies, since our learned 
discourse extends far into the evening. I need not mention that 

7 E.g., XXV, 3; XXIX, 2. s n, j ; y, i, 6. 

9 V, 6. 10 Paradise Lost, II, 558-561. 



ON PRAYER 183 

our morning studies also are prolonged to the ninth, at times to 
the tenth, hour." 11 Ambrose was equally insistent in supplying 
Origen unstintingly (for he was a wealthy man) with the means 
to produce his commentaries, and also, we cannot doubt, such 
a treatise as the present one. Thanks to his liberality, as Origen 
dictated " there were ready at hand more than seven shorthand 
writers, who relieved each other at fixed times, and as many 
copyists, as well as girls skilled in penmanship. 5 ' 12 The picture 
reminds us of a professor today in a university in the New World, 
who can command unlimited resources in respect of money and 
material and helpers for the production of learned works cover- 
ing a vast field of inquiry. Therefore we can understand how 
Origen, even when engaged on a large and important work such 
as the Commentaries on John, could at the same time break in 
upon it and also produce a treatise which not only answered the 
particular questions propounded to him by his friends, but also 
(as we shall see) went on to deal with prayer in general and to 
give a lengthy exposition of the Lord's Prayer. His mind, 
through long training and practice, was fully equipped with a 
working knowledge of the principal philosophical systems. His 
knowledge of Holy Scripture was unrivalled. As an exegete his 
skill was remarkable. With all this knowledge and capacity in 
himself, he had only to dictate what flowed from his teeming 
brain to the shorthand writers. Eusebius notes that there were 
more than seven of them and that they relieved one another at 
fixed times. No doubt when Origen was dictating such an 
arrangement was as humane as it was necessary. Then the 
"copyists" transcribed the shorthand into longhand. And finally 
the girl scribes produced neatly written copies of the work. 

Later on we shall give an analysis of the treatise. It is suffi- 
cient to say here that Origen himself gives a brief description of 
its contents in ch. XXXIV when he speaks of having treated (i) 
the problem of prayer, and (2) the prayer that is found in the 
Gospels, and the preceding context in Matthew. We must add, 
however, to these a third section containing a supplement to the 
general discussion of prayer, which should more appropriately 
have come after section (i). The work was, in fact, somewhat 
hastily put together, and Origen seems to have been aware of 
this, for in his concluding words he expresses the hope that he 
may be able "to treat again of these same matters with greater 

11 See Lawlor and Oulton, II, 213 f. 

12 Eusebius, H.E.> VI, 23. Cp. J. de Ghellinck, Patristique et Moym Age > 
II, 2 15 f. 



184 ORIGEN 

breadth and elevation and clarity," and adds "for the present 
you will read this book with indulgence." Furthermore we can 
detect throughout the composition signs which indicate a 
diversity of aim. Origen, in fact, wished at one and the same 
time to answer the questions of Ambrose and Tatiana and dis- 
sipate their doubts, to handle the subject of prayer generally, 
and finally to give an exposition of the Lord's Prayer. As a 
result, both here and in the treatise On Martyrdom, matter which 
should have been combined is broken up, and Origen repeats 
himself. 13 These faults in structural arrangement, however, do 
not seriously detract from the general "effect" of the treatise, 
which is perhaps the most readable of his works, 14 and reveals 
attractively many of his characteristic qualities. To these we 
shall now turn. 

GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS OF ORIGEN 

To a student of Church History, the most obvious aspect of 
Origen is that he represents the Greek element in Christianity, 
as did also his predecessor in the Catechetical School at Alex- 
andria, Clement. We cannot, however, simply leave the matter 
there, but rather must go on to ask, which chaj^Qteri^ticsJ.^ the 
Greek genius does he^xempHfy? The moment this questionTs 
asked, we begirf to see that we must qualify such a general 
description and distinguish between certain elements within it. 
Origenshows, for example, little^ appreciation of Greek lit.era- 
tureaTsucL 15 In his day, at Alexandria, Homer was the bible 
ancTthetbTindation of secular letters. His poetry represents, per- 
haps better than any other writer, the soul of the Greek genius 
and the imagination of the race. Origen cites him.frequently in 
his other works, and calls him *" the. .best of.pqets a " i6 but he 
shows little appreciation of his purely poetical qualities. It is the 
same with the other, rather few, Greek poets that he quotes 
from or refers to, such as Hesiod, Euripides, Aristophanes, 
Callimachus, Apollonius Rhodius. The references to Hesiod 
are particularly significant, as de Faye points out. 17 This poet 
inspires in him no admiration. He makes fun of Celsus because 
he calls him a divine poet. He appears to find no grace or beauty 

is Koetschau, I, Ixxxi. 

14 "No writing of Origen is more free from his characteristic faults, or more 
full of beautiful thoughts." B. F. Westcott in D.C.B., IV, 124. 

15 See de Faye, I, ch. 14. i< Contra Celsum, VII, 6. 



ON PRAYER 185 

in the description of the formation of Pandora, which he trans- 
cribes. In fact, Hesiod is for him only a retailer of myths. For 
the prose writers of Greece in the day of its glory Origen shows 
no greater appreciation, nor for its art. 

Neither does Origen exhibit the Greek genius in his style and 
method of composition. Not for him the "no thing too much" or 
"the half is greater than the whole." On the contrary, he is dif- 
fuse, discursive, repetitive. His immense erudition, and especially 
his Biblical knowledge, frequently leads him aside into irrele- 
vant digressions. The torrent of words and exuberance of ideas 
are at times reminiscent of the opening chapter of Ephesians. 
They certainly do not recall the reticence and restraint and 
economy of the classical period of Greek literature. If Greek 
"balance" is to be seen at all in Origen, it is in his grasp of the 
Christian revelation as a number of related truths. His De Prin- 
cipiis is the first and perhaps the greatest work on systematic 
theology. But this attempt "to see life steadily, and see it whole" 
was due, I imagine, less to an inner sense of artistic completeness 
than to a grasp of divine revelation as a unifying principle. That 
God shall be all in all was the vision which dominated his 
thinking and gave form to his conception of all things whether 
in heaven or on earth. 

The Greek element in Origen is most truly seen in his love of 
inquiry and speculation. His training in philosophy and his 
subsequent teaching of it implanted in him the habit, which be- 
came a second nature, of asking questions, of probing into the 
meaning of things, and of conjecturing when no certain answ r er 
could be found. As a Biblical student, he is never tired of wrest- 
ing from a passage its inner meaning, of comparing one passage 
with another and of confronting difficulties that may thereby 
arise. After the manner of the schools his custom is to bring for- 
ward an objector imaginary or real. This method of conducting 
an argument occurs again and again. Perhaps we owe Paul's 
doctrine of the resurrection body to the question of an inquiring 
and quick-witted Greek: But some one will say, How are the dead 
raised? 1 * We meet the same kind of thing frequently even in a 
treatise such as On Prayer. And this is not surprising because 
for Origen Christianity was chiefly an illumination of the reason, 
which by itself and without revelation was incapable of know- 
ing God, and growth in grace was a deeper and deeper appre- 
hension of divine mysteries and of the Logos as he communicates 
himself more and more to the soul of man. So it was that living 
!* I Cor. 15:35. 19 See p. 270. 



l86 ORIGEN 

in a day when few, at any rate in Alexandria, questioned the 
validity of the allegorical method of interpreting the Scriptures, 
Origen regarded it as one of the highest achievements to pierce 
beneath the outward and obvious meaning of a passage to the 
hidden and esoteric meaning that lay beneath. And even if such 
a meaning escapes our present understanding, Origen is sure 
that it exists and is known to the divine Logos "who has con- 
templated the Father's will." 20 

It would be a great mistake, however, to picture Origen as a 
mere intellectualist and his religion as simply and solely a kind 
of higher gnosis. The intellectual side of him was balanced by 
purity of soul, flame of devotion and virtue of life. "Dedicated 
to God" or "genuinely devoted to God" 21 was for him a descrip- 
tion of the true Christian. If, on the one hand, he seems to lay 
much stress upon prayer as contemplation of God, on the other 
he speaks "of the whole life of the saint as one great unbroken 
prayer," since he "combines with the prayer the needful deeds 
and the prayer with the fitting actions." 22 Again and again he 
reminds us of the duty of love and forgiveness, a virtue which, in 
view of his cruel wrongs, he had himself much occasion to prac- 
tise. 23 From boyhood his joul was aflame for martyrdom; and 
there is little doubt that the end of his life was hastened by the 
tortures he endured for the name of Christ. Origen was indeed 
one of those rare souls whose light "shineth more and more unto 
the perfect day." 24 Whether his doctrine of the pre-existence of 
souls is true or false, it seemed from the first that his body was 
inhabited by something from another sphere. "It is said that 
many a time his father would stand over the sleeping boy and 
uncover his breast, as if a divine spirit were enshrined therein, 
and kissing it with reverence count himself happy in his goodly 
offspring." 25 

In his capacity for combining as a unity in himself intellectual 
passion with warm personal devotion to God in Christ and the 
practical virtues of a Christian, Origen is perhaps unique among 
the Fathers. He had many disciples, and has had many fol- 
lowers, but never one of them who equalled him in this. Arno- 
bius could write a long work without revealing a distinctively 
Christian spirit. Boethius could keep his philosophy and 
theology apart, and write The Consolations of Philosophy without 
betraying that he was a Christian. We have only to reflect for 

20 XXVII, 14. 21 ix, 2 ; XIII, 5. 

22 XII, 2. 23 See IX, 3; XXVIII, 7, 8. 

24 Prov. 4:18. 25 Eusebius, H.R, VI, 2:1 1. 



ON PRAYER 187 

a moment to see that such detachment would be impossible for 
Origen. John Scotus Erigena is a kind of "throw-back" to 
Origen across a gulf of some six hundred years, and like Origen 
was a great intellectualist: but we have no reason to suppose 
that he matched him as a devotional or practical Christian. 
Hence, to follow Origen in his never-resting spirit of inquiry 
concerning all things would inevitably involve for lesser mortals 
a less sure grasp of Christianity as a way of personal life. This 
thought has been beautifully expressed in the lines of Isaac 
Williams in the Lyra Apostolica: 

Into God's word, as in a palace fair, 

Thou leadest on and on, while still beyond 

Each chamber, touched by holy wisdom's wand, 

Another opes, more beautiful and rare: 

And thou in each art kneeling down in prayer. 

From link to link of that mysterious bond 

Seeking for Christ: but oh, I fear thy fond 

And beautiful torch, that with so bright a flare 

Lighteth up all things, lest the heaven-lit brand 

Of thy serene Philosophy divine 

Should take the colourings of earthly thought. 

And I, by their sweet images o'erwrought, 

Led by weak Fancy, should let go Truth's hand. 

And miss the way into the inner shrine. 26 

THE TREATISE ON PRAYER AND ORIGEN'S ORTHODOXY 

The concluding words of the poem just quoted lead us natur- 
ally to consider those questions concerning Origen's orthodoxy 
that arise out of the Treatise On Prayer. The first of these is con- 
cerned with the Person to whom prayer should be addressed. 
It is commonly stated that Origen teaches that prayer is to be 
made to God alone, and not to Christ. This is not quite accurate. 
Origen, following I Tim. 2:1, makes a distinction between four 
forms of prayer, namely, "supplications, prayers, intercessions, 
thanksgivings" (XIV, 2). Of these, he says, "intercession and 
thanksgiving" maybe addressed to all men, Christians ("saints" ) 
or not, while "supplication" may be made to "saints" only 
(XIV, 5). It follows, then, a fortiori, that "thanksgiving" and 
"intercession" (and "supplication") may be addressed to 

26 I owe tliis reference to A. R. Whitham, History of the Christian Ckttrck, 

138. 



l88 ORIGEN 

Christ, "who has wrought such benefits for us by the will of the 
Father"; and indeed Origen quotes from Scripture an example 
of intercession to Christ, namely, the words of Stephen, "Lord, 
lay not this sin to their charge. 5 ' 27 

It is only, then, "prayer 55 in the special sense of the term that 
is to be addressed to the Father alone. Origen defines this kind 
of prayer as follows. "Prayer/ 5 he says, "is offered in a dignified 
manner with ascription of praise by some one concerning matters 
of importance. 3528 He gives two examples of this, which, how- 
ever, do not quite seem to square with his own definition: (i) 
"A prayer of Habakkuk the prophet, with a song. O Lord, I 
have heard thy voice, and was afraid: O Lord, I perceived thy 
works and was astounded; in the midst of two living creatures 
thou shalt be known, when the years draw nigh thou shalt be 
observed." 29 (2) "Jonah prayed unto the Lord his God out of 
the fish's belly, and he said, I called in my affliction unto the 
Lord my God, and he heard me; out of the belly of hell thou 
heardest my crying, even my voice. Thou didst cast me forth 
into the depths of the heart of the sea, and the rivers were round 
about me. 5 ' 30 But in the first of these it is not easy to see what 
are "the matters of importance" concerning which the prayer 
is offered; and in the second there is no ascription of praise. It 
would seem, therefore, that Origen has not quite clearly thought 
out the distinctions he is endeavouring to make. Still, however, 
the fact remains that in the De Orations he does not allow 
"prayer" as he defines it to be offered to Christ, but to the 
Father only. And it is this limitation, chiefly, that caused the 
treatise to be under a cloud, and added yet another reason for 
holding its author suspect. 

The point obviously raises the whole question of Origen's 
doctrine of God, upon which, I suppose, the last word will never 
be said. The matter is further complicated by the fact that often 
we cannot be at all certain what Origen actually did write, for 
many of his works are extant only in the Latin translation of 
Rufinus, who is notoriously and admittedly unreliable as a 
translator. It cannot be doubted that he frequently altered 
Origen's language in a more orthodox direction. I have showed 
that he did this also with some phrases of Eusebius of a doubtful 
theological character. 31 Hence only those passages of Origen of 
which the original Greek is extant can be safely trusted to give 
his meaning. But it is not difficult to see that Origen's language 
w Acts 7:60. 28 XIV, 2. 29 H ab. 3:1, 2 (LXX). 

30 J onah 2:1, 2, 3. 31 j.r., XXX, 153-156. 



ON PRAYER 189 

concerning the relation of the Son (or the Word) to the Father 
must fail to be satisfactory from an orthodox point of view. 
Origen started from the conception of an absolutely trans- 
cendent God. God is intelligence, simple, invisible, incorporeal, 
or even beyond intelligence and being (substance), and cannot 
be comprehended save by him who was after the image of his 
intelligence. 32 God is above truth, wisdom, light, 33 and even 
above eternal life. 34 Elsewhere 35 Origen discusses whether God 
is not also beyond substance, and leans to the conclusion that 
he is; for we cannot say that he partakes of substance: rather, he 
causes all beings, the Logos included, to partake of it. 36 

On these premisses, such a conception as that of the Logos 
was essential, on the one hand, if revelation were to become pos- 
sible for man; and, on the other, it was very difficult in relating 
the Logos (or Son, for the terms for Origen are interchangeable) 
to God to maintain their co-equality. In fact, Origen postulates 
a real subordinationism; and the logical outcome of it all is seen 
in the present passage, in which he teaches that "prayer" is to 
be directed to the Father alone. 

In respect of this matter, two extreme attitudes towards 
Origen have been taken in later times. Some have aimed at 
establishing his orthodoxy in the terms of the Nicene Faith, 
labouring in the effort to explain or explain away everything 
that seems to point in the opposite direction; and such defenders 
have also brought to their aid the works of Origen known 
only in the Latin translation of Rufinus, although it is certain 
that Rufinus made them appear more orthodox than they really 
were. The opposite school has roundly accused Origen of heresy. 

Both of these have forgotten that Origen was the child of his 
environment and of his age. His philosophic background at 
Alexandria provided him with a conception of God into which 
it was very difficult, if not impossible, to fit a doctrine of the 
essential Trinity. And, secondly, Origen lived before the con- 
troversies and the great conciliar decisions of the fourth and 
fifth centuries had given formal expression to the Catholic Faith. 
At the begining of the third century thought was fluid on these 
matters. 

In his endeavour to systematize and state Christian theology 
Origen was a pioneer, and made the mistakes of a pioneer, 
especially as he was a daring pioneer. Many of his speculations 

32 Contra Celsum, VII, 38. 33 I n J h., II, 23 (18). 

34 Ibid., XIII, 3. 35 Contra Celsum, VI, 64. 

3 De Faye, III, 31, 32. 



190 ORIGEN 

were simply speculations, upon which the Church has not pro- 
nounced an opinion; and we may let them pass. In other mat- 
ters, including the doctrine in question, Origen failed to reach 
the position which was afterwards seen to be orthodox. But 
Origen never intended heresy, or to set his opinions against 
those of the Church. 37 Eusebius tells us that when only seventeen 
or thereabouts Origen could not be persuaded to associate in 
prayer with a certain heretic named Paul "keeping the rule of 
the Church, even from boyhood, and loathing' the very word 
he himself uses somewhere the teachings of the heretics." And 
it is interesting to note that to go no further than this present 
treatise Origen refers to heretics and heretical teaching in a 
way that betrays no sympathy with them or it, but very much 
the contrary; and he certainly would have been distressed be- 
yond measure, had he been told that one day he would be 
classed among them. For example, in XXII, 3, he speaks of 
"numbers of heretics" who for their own purposes say Jesus is 
Lord. In XXIV, 5, he refers to the "most impious conceptions" 
and "godless thought" contained in Tatian's interpretation of 
Let there be light. In XXIX, 10, we have a vigorous passage, 
denouncing those who misinterpreting the Scriptures fall into 
error concerning the Son and the Father. In XXIX, 13, we 
have a clear reference to the Marcionites, who "have imagined a 
God other than the creator of heaven and earth because they 
find many such things in the Law and the Prophets and have 
taken offence against him as not good who utters such senti- 
ments." And lastly, when in V, i, he is dealing with objections 
to prayer, he roundly denounces those who reject prayer com- 
pletely as "downright atheists" who "deny the existence of God" 
or else as people "who go as far as to accept the name of God 
but do away with his Providence." These passages make it clear 
that Origen was definitely on the side of orthodoxy as he con- 
ceived it. 

^ Moreover, Origen was essentially a Biblical theologian, and 
his subordinationism sprang not only from his conception of 
Deity but also from what he conceived the Scriptures to teach. 
Texts that he quoted for this purpose were, "The Father is 
greater than I" (John 14:28); "That they should know thee, 
the only true God" (John 17:3); "Why callest thou me good?" 
(Mark 10:18); and especially I Cor. 15:28: "And when all 
things have been subjected unto him, then shall the Son also 
himself be subjected to him that did subject all things unto him, 

1,2: 14. 



ON PRAYER IQI 

that God may be all in all." 38 Similarly, in support of prayer to 
God alone he turns to Scripture. 39 If prayer is to be offered to 
the Father, it is to be offered in the name of Christ, as taught in 
John 16:23, 24. Christ is the high priest (Heb. 2:17, etc.), and 
therefore prayer is not offered apart from him. Christ is also the 
brother of those who pray (Heb. 2:12) ; and "it is not reasonable 
that those who have been deemed worthy to have one Father 
should pray to a brother." 40 It is not suggested that Origen 
always drew the correct conclusions from these passages. But it 
is clear that he wrestled with Scripture as concerning the rela- 
tionship of the Son to the Father, and that he believed that he 
had extracted its true meaning. The moral to be drawn from 
the whole controversy is that though Origen failed to satisfy 
Catholic orthodoxy, as it was expressed later, it still remains to 
examine Scripture more closely in order to discover from it such 
an exegesis as is consistent with the doctrine of the essential 
Trinity. Origen' s mistakes will not have been in vain, if they 
lead us to a fresh investigation of this matter. 

The second point which threw suspicion on the orthodoxy of 
the treatise On Prayer is one which will not cause us so much 
concern today. In XXXI, 3, Origen says that it has been shown 
by those who have treated of the matter that the bodies of 
heavenly beings are spherical. The sources from which he drew 
this conclusion are given elsewhere. 41 The modern Church may 
be disposed to receive such a notion with humorous indulgence. 
But it was not so in earlier times when Origenistic controversies 
waxed hotly. 42 As we shall see, the Emperor Justinian included 
this opinion among the nine tenets for which he anathematized 
Origen; and it is also to be found among the fifteen "Anathemas 
against Origen" which, though not properly part of the pro- 
ceedings of the Fifth General Council, contain contemporaneous 
matter discussed and circulated at .that time. The opinion, 
therefore, that heavenly bodies are spherical severely damaged 
the treatise in orthodox eyes, especially as Origen goes so far as 
to say that the opinion had been "demonstrated." 43 No doubt, 
opposition to the notion was bound up with a literalistic con- 
ception of the resurrection of the body or flesh which prevailed 
in the early Church; and as Origen was supposed to be unsound 
on this matter generally, the particular fancy concerning the 
sphericity of celestial bodies was fastened on by his opponents 
in an age when orthodoxy and dogmatism were often confused. 

38 Cf. XXV, 2. 39 XV, I, 2. 40 XV, 4. 41 See pp. 381, 382. 

42 See p. 232. 43 The word he uses is 



ORIGEN 

CHARACTERISTIC IDEAS OF ORIGEN IN THE De Oratione 

Besides the two particular ideas mentioned above, the treatise 
On Prayer also contains much of Origen's characteristic outlook. 

i . Relation between body and soul, seen and unseen., earthly 
and heavenly 

idealist, the whole thought of Origen is dorni- 
oFthe inferiority of the materialand 
visiBlelijF compared with the immaterial and invisible, and con- 
sequently by the dualis^unvolved in this outlook. Character- 
istically, at the outset of the treatise 44 he quotes the words of 
Wisdom of Solomon 9:15. 

A corruptible body weigheth down the soul. 
And the earthy frame lieth heavy on a mind that is full of 
cares; 

and he speaks of the human mind as "still imprisoned in the 
body." 45 The same conviction appears also, under various 
forms, in his treatment of the supposed saying of the Lord: "Ask 
for the great things, and the little things shall be added unto 
you; ask for the heavenly things, and the earthly things shall 
be added unto you." 46 He invariably interprets the "great" and 
"heavenly" things as spiritual blessings, the "little" and 
"earthly" things as material blessings. "It is clear," he says, 47 
"that all symbolical and typical things are e smalT and 'earthly' in 
comparison with the true and spiritual things." It is thus that 
we are to interpret passages in the Old Testament which speak 
of the saints there as requesting material blessings: "In all likeli- 
hood the divine word . . . indicates the 'heavenly 5 and 'great* 
things by means of matters connected with 'earthly' and 'little' 
things, saying [to us], 'Ye who desire to be spiritual ask in 
prayer, so that having received them as 'heavenly' ye may 
inherit the kingdom of heaven, and as 'great' ye may enjoy the 
greatest blessings; but the 'earthly' and 'little' things, of which 
ye are in want for bodily necessities, the Father will supply 
unto you in accordance with the measure of your need." In 
accordance with this principle, Hannah, Hezekiah, Judith, 
Jonah, and the Three Holy Children, although Holy Scripture 
speaks of them as having received earthly benefits or deliver- 
ance, received in reality spiritual blessings which far outweighed 
the former. 48 We can obtain today such spiritual blessings as the 

44 I, i. 45 XVII, 2. 4* II, s. 47 XIV, I. 48 XVI, 3. 



ON PRAYER 193 

Old Testament spoke of in type. 49 Earthly blessings are indeed 
only the "shadow" of spiritual blessings; and just as the sun may 
not cast a shadow at all in certain circumstances and at certain 
latitudes, so some spiritual blessings are accompanied by no 
earthly blessing. 50 Those on earth are hampered by certain im- 
pressions arising from attendant circumstances and so have a 
tendency to follow the worse course, but this is not so with those 
in heaven, who possess a soul that is perfected by reason and 
alien to the influence of these impressions, and make use of a 
body that is ethereal and absolutely pure. 51 One of the benefits 
of prayer for us is that "the eyes of the understanding are lifted 
up, away from converse with earthly things and occupation 
with material impressions," and therefore they "can transcend 
created things." 52 And finally this principle governs entirely 
Origen's exegesis of "Give us this day our daily bread." 53 As we 
shall see when we come to consider his exposition of the Lord's 
Prayer clause by clause, the bread that Origen would have us 
pray for is no material substance. 54 Origen appears to indicate 
the philosophical basis of his conviction concerning the in- 
feriority of material things in ch. XXI, 2. "No material or 
bodily thing is single; but every one of them, though reckoned 
single, is split up and cut in pieces and divided into several 
parts, having lost its unity." And since, in accordance with 
Greek belief, "virtue is one, vice is many," therefore the multi- 
plex character of material things demonstrates this imperfec- 
tion. Consistently with his general position, Origen quotes 55 
from Ignatius 56 with approval the saying * 'nothing that is seen 
is good." But Origen, nor yet Ignatius, did not push this state- 
ment to its logical conclusion. Just as Ignatius vigorously asserts, 
in reply to gnostic error, the reality of the Eucharist, so Origen 57 
attacks "those who completely reject objects of sense, and use 
neither Baptism nor Eucharist." Such persons, according to 
him, are influenced by the persuasions of Satan. 

2. Immateriality of God 

This follows from the foregoing. It was one of Origen*s firmest 
beliefs, and duly finds a place in this treatise, especially in 
ch. XXIII in connection with the words "which art in heaven." 
"When the Father of the saints is said to be in heaven, we are 

49 XIII, 3, 4, 5. so XVII, i, 2. 5i ch. VII. 

52 IX, 2. 53 Ch. XXVII. 54 See pp. 212, 218 ,361 fil 

55 XX, 2. 56 Romans, 3. 5? V, i. 

A.C, 13 



194 ORIGEN 

not to suppose that he is circumscribed in bodily fashion and 
dwells in heaven; otherwise, if the heaven contained him, God 
would be found less than, because contained by, the heaven; but 
we must believe that by the ineffable power of his Godhead all 
things are contained and held together by him." Simple folk, 
however, take in a literal sense phrases in Scripture which seem 
to assert that God is in a place; and such passages must be given 
their true meaning. Thus, for example, when in St. John's Gospel 
the Lord speaks of "departing out of this world to the Father/ 3 of 
"coming forth from God, and going to God," and so forth, and 
of the Father and the Son "coming" unto the believer and 
"making our abode with him, 55 these sayings, according to 
Origen, "do not conceive of a local departure of the Father and 
the Son to him who loves the word of Jesus, nor are they to be 
taken in a local sense." Similarly, the words at the end of the 
same Gospel, "Touch me not; for I am not yet ascended to the 
Father" are to be taken in a mystical sense as an ascent of 
the mind rather than of the body. Again, we cannot take literally 
the passage (Gen. 3:8) which speaks of the Lord God "walking 
in the garden." Is a literal garden so much larger than God that 
it contains him as he "walks" in it? We are, rather, to compare 
the passage "I will dwell in them, and walk in them" (II Cor. 
6:16). God's "walking" in the garden is of the same kind as his 
"walking" in the saints. And, on the other hand, every sinner, 
like Adam and Eve, "hides" himself from the presence of God, 
avoids his visitation, and shuns open speech with him, just as 
Gain "went out from the presence of God" (Gen. 4:16). Again, 
in ch. XXV, Origen teaches that "the kingdom of God" is im- 
manent and spiritual. The Saviour says (Luke 17:20, 21), "The 
kingdom of God cometh not with observation: neither shall they 
say, Lo, here! or, Lo, there! but the kingdom of God is within 
you"; and to this Origen adds the saying in Deuteronomy 
(30:14), "for the word is very nigh, in thy mouth, and in thy 
heart," This is comparable to the saying quoted above: "We 
will come unto him, and make our abode with him." Every 
saint who takes God as his king and obeys the spiritual laws of 
God dwells in himself as in a well-ordered city. By God's king- 
dom is meant the blessed state of the reason and the ordered 
condition of wise thoughts. 58 

58 Sec further, pp. 216 ff. 



ON PRAYER 195 

3. Angels, heavenly powers and departed saints 

It is not surprising that Origen, for whom the unseen world 
was the great reality, should give the place he does to the 
ministry of angels and of those who have passed within the veil. 
Chapter XI is devoted to this thought. Angels ministered to 
Jesus when he was on earth, and no doubt they still minister to 
him as he carries out his work for the salvation of men. More- 
over, Scripture speaks of the angels in heaven rejoicing over the 
sinner that repenteth, and of the ministry of Raphael, as re- 
corded in the Book of Tobit, in helping forward the prayers of 
Tobit and Sarah. So, according to Origen, we may assume that 
angels, who watch over things and minister to God, are at times 
brought into the presence of this or that man who is praying in 
order that they may join in his requests. Each one's guardian 
angel also joins in our prayers and gives us his aid. 

With regard to the ministry of departed saints, Origen's line 
of thought is as follows. Love to one's neighbour, we are taught 
in God's Word, is one of the chiefest virtues. Care for the mem- 
bers of the body, the Church, is a mark of that love: and it is not 
only by those in this life that such love is exercised. Rather, "we 
must hold that the saints who have fallen asleep before us 
exercise it towards those who are struggling in this life much 
more than do they who are compassed about with human weak- 
ness and are struggling in company with feebler folk." 

Similar thoughts are to be found in ch. XXXI, 5, 6, 7; only 
here it is not a question of the individual and his need of 
assistance, but of the Church when assembled for worship. On 
such occasions there is an invisible, as well as a visible, company 
present. Each worshipper's guardian angel is there to help him 
whom he is charged to guard, so that there is a double church, 
the one of men, the other of angels; and there are present also 
the spirits of those who are fallen asleep. The spot, therefore, 
where believers come together in one place, has a peculiar 
sacredness. There is a power, not of this world but derived 
from things invisible, present to that assembly, which is not to 
the same extent to be found in prayer offered by the individual 
believer. 

4. Evil spiritual powers 

Belief in evil spiritual powers is correlative to the foregoing, 
and like it is based on Scriptural language. With Paul, Origen 
is convinced that "our wrestling is not against flesh and blood, 



196 ORIGEN 

but against the principalities, against the powers, against the 
world-rulers of this darkness, against the spiritual hosts of 
wickedness in the heavenly places." 59 In XXVI, 3 he takes up 
the concluding words in this sentence. Why are we told to pray, 
"Thy will be done, as in heaven, so on earth," if in heaven there 
are these malevolent powers opposed to the will of God? An 
answer to this is put forward in XXVI, 5, 6. "The mind is its 
own place." He who has his citizenship in heaven, though 
literally on earth, is no longer of the earth, but of heaven and 
the heavenly world. Similarly, the spiritual hosts of wickedness 
that still reside in the heavenly places have their citizenship on 
earth, and because of their evil disposition dwell no longer in 
heaven; for they have fallen in mind with him who fell from 
heaven after the manner of lightning. Again, just as in an 
assembly of Christians for worship there is a twofold company, 
of holy men and of blessed angels, so there may be also in such 
an assembly a double gathering of a different sort, of wicked 
men and of bad angels: for church assemblies are not entirely 
composed of men genuinely devoted to God, but also, it may be, 
include some who have given themselves up to angels of the 
devil through their sins and wicked disregard of God. 60 Finally, 
Origen finds no difficulty in the concluding words of the Lord's 
Prayer, "Deliver us from the evil one." The presence and power 
of a personal devil was well within the content of his beliefs. He 
finds Scriptural warrant for it in the account of the temptations 
of Job, and those of the Saviour, and in the words of Paul al- 
ready quoted "the fiery darts of the evil one." 

5. Ascetic view of life 

That Origen lived a disciplined and ascetic life is plainly 
stated for us by Eusebius. 61 At any rate in his earlier days, "he 
continued to live like a philosopher, putting aside everything 
that might lead to youthful lusts; all day long his discipline was 
to perform labours of no light character, and the greater part of 
the night he devoted himself to studying the divine Scriptures; 
and he persevered, as far as possible, in the most philosophic 
manner of life, at one time disciplining himself by fasting, at an- 
other measuring out the time for sleep, which he was careful to 
take, never on a couch, but on the floor. . . . He is said, for ex- 
ample, to have walked for many years without using a shoe of 
any description, yea more, to have refrained for a great many 
59 Eph. 6:12. o XXXI, 6. <* H.E. 9 VI, 3:9-12. 



ON PRAYER 197 

years from the use of wine and all except necessary food, so that 
he actually incurred the risk of undermining and destroying his 
constitution." 

The treatise On Prayer ', though not concerned with prescrib- 
ing any particular mode of life, is entirely consistent with the 
description of its author as given by Eusebius. It is the work of a 
man for whom, as we have pointed out above, the body and 
bodily things held a negligible place. The conviction that the 
life of the spirit is everything is expressed in an eloquent passage 
in XVII, i. "If spiritual things are present to us and we are 
being enlightened by God in the complete possession of what is 
truly good, we shall not waste words about the paltry thing 
that is the shadow. For all material and bodily things, of what- 
ever kind they may be, have the value of an unsubstantial and 
feeble shadow, and can in no way be compared with the saving 
and holy gifts of the God of the universe. What sort of com- 
parison can there be between bodily riches and the riches in all 
utterance and in all wisdom? Who that is not a madman would 
compare health of flesh and bones with a healthy mind and a 
robust soul and a balanced reason?" Again, in ch. XXIX, on 
"Bring us not into temptation," life is depicted as what Keats 
calls "a vale of soul-making." The whole of human life upon 
earth is a temptation. No one can escape from this discipline, 
rich or poor, high or low, healthy or sick. In this way God in his 
mercy shows us our weakness that we may discover his power, 
and gives us satiety of sin that we may be purified and come to 
hate what we formerly desired and retrace the path towards 
holiness. Even when temptation is not present, "in the times 
between successive temptations, we ought to take a firm stand 
against what is impending, and prepare ourselves for anything 
that may possibly happen, so that, whatever it may be, we shall 
not be proved unready, but shall be made manifest to have dis- 
ciplined ourselves with the utmost care." 62 In addition to this 
general teaching there are also a few particular references which 
indicate the ascetic trend of Origen's mind. Prayer "as we 
ought" is hindered unless in the performance of the ineffable 
mysteries of marriage due regard is paid to gravity, infrequency, 
and the absence of passion. 63 "It is a question whether it is a 
holy and pure thing to intercede with God in the place where 
sexual intercourse occurs I do not mean unlawful intercourse, 
but that which is allowed by the apostolic word c by way of per- 
mission, not of commandment. 3 For if it is not possible to give 
62 XXIX, 19. 63 ii, 2 . 



ig8 ORIGEN 

oneself to prayer as one ought, unless given over to it by consent 
for a season, perhaps the same consideration should be applied, 
if possible, to the place." 64 He who has perceived what the 
beauty of the heavenly Bride and Bridegroom is will be ashamed 
to honour even with the same name of beauty the bodily beauty 
of woman or boy or man. Flesh does not contain beauty in the 
true sense of the word, seeing that all of it is shameful. 65 But a 
more modest expression of self-control is found in XXVIII, 2: 
"We are debtors in what we owe to ourselves in so using the 
body that we do not waste its strength through love of pleasure." 

6. Allegory 

Speaking of the treatise On Prayer .> Westcott 66 says that "no 
writing of Origen is more free from his characteristic faults." 
And if we count excessive allegorism as one of these, this opinion 
can be endorsed; for as compared with most of his other works 
he here indulges to a far less degree his flights of exegetical 
fancy. This is no doubt partly due to the fact that he is treating 
a subject, not commenting directly upon a Biblical text. Occa- 
sionally, however, in this treatise he betrays his penchant for this 
kind of thing. In XXVI, 3, in the petition "Thy will be done, as 
in heaven, so on earth," "heaven" and "earth" are allegorized 
as "Christ" and "the Church" respectively. The text in Pro- 
verbs (15:17), "Better a dinner of herbs where friendship and 
grace are than a stalled ox and hatred therewith," is interpreted 
as follows: The simple-minded Christian who cannot receive 
the stronger and more important points of doctrine, is to be pre- 
ferred to him who though more skilful and quick-sighted yet 
fails to see clearly what concerns the peace and harmony of the 
whole, and indulges in high-flown words exalted against the 
knowledge of God. 67 When the three men turned in and lodged 
with Abraham and partook of food with him (Gen. 18:2-6), 
perhaps this is to be taken quite figuratively, for the saints are 
able to partake on occasion of spirtual and reasonable food 
with diviner powers, and the angels in turn are glad and nour- 
ished therewith and co-operate the more readily with him who 
nourishes them with the nutriment of teachings formerly pre- 
pared. 68 The exegesis of the dragon and the Ethiopians in 
Ps - 73 :I 3> H (LXX) and of Peter's vision in Acts, ch. 10, may 
also be referred to as curiosities, 69 In XXVII, 14, Origen does 
64 XXXI, 4. 65 XVII, 2. 66 D.C.B., IV, 124. 

67 XXVII, 6. 68 XXVII, 1 1. 69 XXVII, 12. 



ON PRAYER 

not doubt that there are hidden meanings connected with cer- 
tain Jewish ordinances such as the feast of the seven weeks and 
of the seventh month, and with the seven years of the freedom 
of the Hebrew servants and with the Jubile, and so forth, but 
these are part of the Father's unsearchable judgments and his 
ways past finding out, and are known only to the mind of 
Christ, who has contemplated the Father's will concerning his 
ordinances in all ages. A similar thought that the inner 
mysteries underlying certain ordinances are things beyond man 
in this life appears again afterwards in XXVII, 16. But 
Origen's most characteristic effort in the matter of exegesis in 
this treatise is to be found in XXIX, 9. According to the LXX 
of Canticles 2:9, 10, the beloved is to be found "glancing 
through the meshes" ("he sheweth himself through the lattice, 3 ' 
Revised Version). The beloved is, of course, the Saviour. The 
meshes are the meshes of temptation, which the Saviour entered 
for the sake of those who were caught in them aforetime. He 
now promises deliverance to his bride, the Church, when he 
says: "Rise up, come, my near one, my fair one, my dove." On 
the other hand, Origen occasionally manifests a strange, almost 
grotesque, literalism in expounding words of Scripture, as for 
example in VII, i, when he argues that the sun and moon have 
a certain free will, because the Psalmist says, "Praise ye him, 
sun and moon." 



7. Different grades of hearers 

One of Origen's most frequently expressed opinions is that 
there are two classes of Christians, the less mature and the more 
mature, to whom respectively teaching must be adapted accord- 
ing to their spiritual capacity to receive it. This idea he derived 
ultimately from the New Testament. 70 And he found it suited 
admirably his style of Biblical interpretation. The "babes in 
Christ" could receive and understand the plain, literal meaning 
of Scripture; but the inner, allegorical meaning could be im- 
parted only to those who were spiritually "fullgrown." This idea 
finds its place in the treatise On Prayer, as in all his writings. In 
II, 4, he suggests that even John the Baptist observed such a 
distinction, imparting certain teaching about prayer to some 
only of his followers. "Simple folk," 71 when they read "Our 
Father, which art in heaven," imagine that God is in a place; 
whereas this, and other passages open to a like misinterpretation, 
70 I Cor. 3:2; Heb. 5:13, 14; cf. I Cor. 2:6. ?i XXIII, i. 



20O ORIGEN 

must be taken "in a loftier and more spiritual sense." 72 
The discussion on "the daily bread" also gives Origen ample 
opportunity to express the idea of classes of hearers. The Word, 
which nourishes us is varied and diverse, for not all are able to 
be nourished with "the solidity and vigorous force of the divine 
teachings." 73 Those who are "more perfect/' when they read of 
"bread," will understand it of "the bread which came down out 
of heaven; not as the fathers did eat, and died." Then Origen 
goes on to quote I Cor. 3:1-3 and Heb. 5:12-14, and in their 
light to interpret Rom. 14:2: "One man hath faith to eat all 
things: but he that is weak eateth herbs." This saying is not 
principally concerned with bodily nourishment, but rather 
with the words of God that nourish the soul: the stronger 
man is able to partake of all teachings, the weaker and less per- 
fect is content with simpler instruction. A similar thought is 
found in XXVII, 9: "When the word of God is given either as 
'milk' suitably for 'babes/ or as 'herbs' suitably for them that 
are 'weak/ or as 'flesh' seasonably for those who are contesting, 
each of those who are nourished, in proportion as he has offered 
himself to the word, can accomplish this or that thing, or be- 
comes such or such a person." 

On the other hand, in another passage in this context, Origen 
betrays an anxiety, based no doubt upon experience, that 
dangers may lurk for those who pursue such higher interpreta- 
tions, for they may give rise to "high-flown words" proclaiming 
"a doctrine foreign to the Father of our Lord Jesus who has 
given the Law and the Prophets" (the followers of Marcion 
seem to be intended). And this is indicated in Prov. 15:17: 
"Better a dinner of herbs where friendship and grace are (i.e., 
simpler teachings) than a stalled ox and hatred therewith (i.e., 
heretical presumptions)." 

8. Free Will 

That man and all creatures of reason possess free will is a 
fundamental point in Origen's whole theological system, and is 
affirmed in all his writings. 74 He believed in a pre-mundane 
Fall, that is to say, that in the transcendent world a conscious 
act of will on the part of spiritual beings took place, whereby 
they fell from their high estate; and, further, that the return to 
God, in the case of such beings, will be achieved also by an act 
of free will. Moreover, since for Origen the action of God upon 
72 XXIII, 5. 73 XXVII, 4. 74 DC Faye, III, 214. 



ON PRAYER 201 

human souls, in respect of their redemption and uplift, is always 
educative and disciplinary, it follows that God must have free 
creatures to respond to such education. It is not surprising, then, 
that when Origen is discussing the difficulties concerning prayer 
which his friends had brought to his notice (see p. 250), 
he should place in the forefront his reasons for believing in 
free will. 75 These will be examined later on in this volume. 76 
Towards the end of the treatise 77 the same conviction receives 
characteristic expression: "I verily believe that God orders 
every rational soul with a view to its eternal life, and that it 
always maintains its free will, and of its own motion either 
mounts ever higher and higher until it reaches the pinnacle of 
virtue, or on the contrary descends through carelessness to this 
or that excess of wickedness." Then, in this latter case, after 
being glutted with sin, men may "hate what they formerly wel- 
comed, and so when they are healed they can possess more 
securely the health that comes to their souls by being healed." 
In XXIX, 15, we are told that "God does not wish that good 
should come to anyone as of necessity, but of free will." 

9. Universalism 

There are only a few allusions to this doctrine in the treatise. 
In XXVII, 15, Origen says that "in the ages to come God will 
'shew the riches of his grace in kindness 5 : 78 when the greatest 
sinner, who has spoken ill of the Holy Spirit, and is under the 
power of sin throughout the present age, will, I know not how, 
be under treatment from beginning to end in the ensuing age 
that is to come." It is implied that this "treatment" will be suc- 
cessful. Purification after this life is over is referred to in XXIX, 
14., and in the following section the cleansing of even the most 
reprobate sinners. 

10. Church Ordinances and Worship 

As a general rule Origen has little to say about these in his 
writings, and the present treatise is no exception, the greater 
part of which is concerned with private, individual prayer to 
God* Here and there, however, there are a few references to the 
visible order of the Church. In V, i, Origen, when roundly de- 
nouncing certain persons who think that they ought not to pray, 
says that "the champions of this opinion" (which Origen 

75 Chs. VI-VIII, i. 76 See pp. 336 ffi 

77 XXIX, 13. 78 Eph. 2:7. 



202 ORIGEN 

attributes to the Evil One) "are those who completely reject 
objects of sense, and use neither Baptism nor Eucharist." In 
XV, 4, he speaks of those who have received through re- 
generation the spirit of adoption that they may be called sons of 
God: but the reference to Baptism is not actually made explicit. 
In XXVIII, 4, Origen speaks of the responsibilities of the 
several orders of ministers. 'There is a certain debt . . . due 
from a deacon, and another from a presbyter, but the debt due 
from a bishop is the heaviest, since it is demanded of him by the 
Saviour of the whole Church, and retribution follows if it be not 
paid." Later on in the same chapter (sections 9 and 10) occurs 
the passage, to which reference is made elsewhere, 79 about 
priestly absolution. Chapter XXXI, 5-7, is the only passage that 
treats of prayer in the public assembly of the Church. In this 
Origen touches on the superiority of public over private prayer, 
as arising from the probability that in the former there are also 
present invisible, angelic powers and spirits of departed church 
members, not to speak of the power of the Lord and Saviour 
himself. But the passage throws no light upon the nature of the 
worship or the order of service. 

ANALYSIS OF THE TREATISE 

Introduction 
Chapters I and II 

What is impossible for man alone is made possible by the 
grace of God in Christ. Paul, who says that we know not what 
we ought to pray for as we ought, also says that the Spirit helps 
us to pray. The insufficiency of man's power was perceived by 
the disciple who besought the Lord for teaching on prayer. 

Discussion of Prayer in General 
Chapters III to XVII 

THE WORDS EUCHE AND PROSEUCHE 

Chapters III and IV 

OBJECTIONS TO PRAYER 

Chapter V 

(a] By those who reject God altogether, or at any rate the 
idea of Providence. 

79 Pp. 180 ff., 372 ff. 



ON PRAYER 203 

(b) By those who though they accept God and Providence 
yet maintain that everything is known to God beforehand and 
predetermined by him. 

ANSWER TO THESE OBJECTIONS 

Chapters VI to VIII, i 

(a) Free will is proved by the power of motion: to deny free 
will to man would mean that he was neither a living creature 
nor a rational being. 

(b) In every day life we act on the assumption that we and 
others possess free will. 

(c) Foreknowledge and free will are shown to be not in- 
compatible. 

ADVANTAGES OF PRAYER 

Chapters VIII, 2 to X, 2 

The Scriptures are opposed to the foregoing objectors in that 
they speak in many places of the blessings that flow from prayer. 

THE ANGELS, AS WELL AS CHRIST, PRAY WITH US 

Chapter XI 

OUR WHOLE LIFE OUGHT TO BE A PRAYER 

Chapters XII to XIII, i 

(a) The meaning of "Pray without ceasing. 35 

(b) The example of Jesus in prayer, 

EXAMPLES FROM SCRIPTURE OF ANSWERED PRAYER 

Chapter XIII, 2 

Examples given are Hannah, Hezekiah, Mordecai, and 
Esther, Judith, the Three Holy Children, Jonah. 

SIMILAR PRAYERS ARE ANSWERED TODAY 

Chapter XIII, 3-5 

The material blessings obtained by the foregoing saints in 
the Old Testament are types of the greater, spiritual blessings 
that come to Christians by the Holy Spirit. 



204 ORIGEN 

PRAYER: (a) CONTENT (b) FORM (c) TO WHOM ADDRESSED 
Chapters XIV to XVII 

(a) What we ought to ask for is made clear in the saying: 
"Ask for the great things, and the little things shall be added 
unto you" (chs. XIV, i, XVI,i-XVII, 2). ^ 

(b) Forms of prayer: these are indicated in the four expres- 
sions, "supplications," "prayers," "intercessions," "thanks- 
givings," in I Timothy 2:1 (ch. XIV, 2-5). 

(c) Prayer, in the proper sense of the term, is to be directed 
to God alone, through Christ (chs. XIV, 6-XV, 4). 

Discussion of the Lord's Prayer 
Chapters XVIII to XXX 

THE TEXTS OF THE LORD'S PRAYER 

Chapter XVIII, 2, 3 
Matthew and Luke do not hand down the same prayer. 

THE INTRODUCTION TO THE PRAYER IN MATTHEW 

Chapters XIX to XXI 
Jesus teaches us where and how we ought to pray: 

(a) Not in the streets or in the synagogues (chs. XIX, XX) . 

(b) Nor with vain repetitions (ch. XXI). 

OUR FATHER WHICH ART IN HEAVEN 

Chapters XXII, XXIII 

HALLOWED BE THY NAME 

Chapter XXIV 

THY KINGDOM COME 

Chapter XXV 

THY WILL BE DONE, AS IN HEAVEN, SO ON EARTH 

Chapter XXVI 

GIVE US THIS DAY OUR DAILY BREAD 

Chapter XXVII 

(a) By "bread" the Logos according to John is to be under- 
stood. 



ON PRAYER 2O5 

(V) The word for, "daily" (e-movcrtos) is to be derived from 
ovcria, not from errievai. 

(c) "This day" signifies the whole of this age. 

FORGIVE US OUR DEBTS 
AS WE ALSO HAVE FORGIVEN OUR DEBTORS 

Chapter XXVIII 

(a) We have obligations to men and to God. 

(b) We are debtors all the time; similarly others are in debt 
to us. 

(c) We must forgive in order to be forgiven: but sins unto 
death are not to be forgiven. 

BRING US NOT INTO TEMPTATION 
BUT DELIVER US FROM THE EVIL ONE 

Chapters XXIX, XXX 

(a) All life is a temptation. 

(b) Therefore the petition to be delivered from it is that we 
should not be overcome by it. 

(c) How can the good God bring us into temptation? 

(d) The advantage of temptation is clear. 

(e) But also the petition to be delivered from it is well 
grounded. 

Supplement to General Discussion on Prayer 
Chapters XXXI to XXXIII 

DISPOSITION AND POSTURE IN PRAYER 

Chapter XXXI, 1-3 

THE PLACE WHERE ONE OUGHT TO PRAY 

Chapter XXXI, 4-7 

THE SUPERIORITY OF PRAYER TOWARDS THE EAST 

Chapter XXXII 

THE SUBJECTS OF PRAYER 

Chapter XXXIII 

Conclusion 
Chapter XXXIV 



206 ORIGEN 

ORIGEN'S CONCEPTION OF PRAYER IN GENERAL 

The theological starting point in Origen's treatment of the 
subject of Prayer is to be found in the absolute transcendence of 
God and the impossibility that man can know him or his will 
unaided. 80 "What man shall know the counsel of God? Or who 
shall conceive what the Lord willeth? Hardly do we divine the 
things that are on earth. But the things that are in the heavens, 
who ever traced out?" 81 Of ourselves, therefore, we do not know 
what we ought to say, when we pray, or how we should dispose 
ourselves to pray. But revelation has come to our assistance. The 
Scriptures tell us "what we ought" to pray about, and "how we 
ought" to pray. More particularly, there is the passage which 
declares that the Spirit himself maketh intercession to God on 
our behalf, as we address ourselves to prayer. 82 And Origen 
also recalls how one of Christ's disciples, recognizing his human 
weakness and ignorance in the matter of prayer, said to the 
Master, "Lord, teach us to pray." 83 Therefore, as he begins his 
difficult task, Origen knows that he needs the illumination of 
the Father, the teaching of the first-begotten Word, and the 
operation of the Spirit, if he is to treat worthily so weighty a 
matter, and accordingly he opens with a prayer that he may be 
able to speak rightly about prayer and to interpret rightly the 
prayers that are recorded in the Gospels. 84 

This introduction displays at the outset what is the outstand- 
ing feature of the treatise On Prayer and of all Origen's works, 
namely, their unvarying Biblical character. No one else in the 
early Church had so intimate and profound a knowledge of 
Holy Scripture or was so unremitting in using it as the basis of 
all his teaching. It is not surprising, therefore, that with this 
strong Biblical background Origen should go on to speak of 
some of the words used for prayer in the Greek Bible, Old and 
New Testaments. In point of fact, however, this is the least 
valuable part of the treatise. The discussion in chs. Ill and IV 
on the words euche and proseuche fails to throw much light on the 
difference between them. The passage seems to have been 
hastily composed, and to be based upon reminiscences of certain 
texts rather than on a careful study of the terms in question. 85 
Of greater value is Origen's discussion, in XIV, 2-5, of the four 
words used in I Tim. 2:1, namely, "supplication" (Seyms), 
"prayer" (irpoaevxtf), "intercession" (iarreu&s) and "thanks- 



80 I, i. 81 Wisdom of Solomon 9:13, 16. 82 Rom. 8:26, 27. 

" Luke 1 1:1. ** II, 6. 85 See note, p. 334. 



ON PRAYER 207 

giving" (wxapurrta). He notes, correctly, that "supplication' 5 
is a petition offered for the obtaining of some particular thing, 
and that evrev&s (which does not necessarily mean what the 
English word "intercession" does prayer in relation to others) 
involves the notion of a free or "bold" approach to God. 
"'Intercession/ he says, is a request to God for certain things 
made by one who possesses more than usual confidence." 
Origen also notes the fact that "prayer" (Trpoo-eu^Tj) is a word 
reserved for address to God; whereas the other three, "supplica- 
tion," "intercession," "thanksgiving," may not unsuitably be 
addressed to holy men also. 

But "prayer," according to Origen, is not simply asking God 
for something, nor are its benefits to be confined to the obtaining 
of what we ask for. On this point he is insistent: and indeed some 
of the most eloquent sentences in the treatise are devoted to 
expressing it. Great benefit, he says, results simply from a proper 
disposition or preparation for prayer. "Without doubt he whose 
mind is set on prayer is in some measure profited merely by the 
settled condition involved in praying, when he has disposed 
himself to approach God and speak in his presence as to one who 
watches over him and is present." 86 "The greatest benefits re- 
sult from the attitude of, and preparation for, prayer, considered 
simply by themselves, of the man who has dedicated himself to 
God." 87 The calling to mind of a wise and famous man may 
check evil impulses and stir up to emulation. How much more 
profitable is it to recollect God, in whom we have put our trust, 
who knows the secrets of our heart, and is present with us! 88 
And not only in the mere disposition for prayer is there a 
looking up to God, there is also a looking away from earthly 
things and bodily impressions. Quoting the words of the Psalm- 
ists, "Unto thee have I lifted up mine eyes, O thou that dwellest 
in the heaven," 89 and "Unto thee have I lifted up my soul, O 
God," 90 Origen go*es on to say, "When the eyes of the under- 
standing are lifted up, away from converse with earthly things 
and occupation with material impressions, and when they are 
elevated so high that they can transcend created things and fix 
themselves solely upon the contemplation of God and of reverent 
and seemly intercourse with him who hears, it must needs be 
that the eyes themselves derive the greatest benefit, when 'with 
unveiled face they reflect as in a mirror the glory of the Lord, 
and are transformed into the same image from glory to glory.' 91 

86 VIII, 2. 87 IX, 2. 88 VIIL 2. 

9 Ps. 123:1. 90 p s . 25:1. 91 II Cor. 3:18, 



208 ORIGEN 

. . . Moreover, when the soul is lighted up and follows the spirit 
and severs itself from the body ... it must needs be that laying 
aside the nature of a soul it becomes spiritual." 92 He who prays 
must follow the precept of Christ, 93 and enter into his own inner 
chamber, shutting himself in upon the riches laid up in store, 
"the treasures of wisdom and knowledge." 94 He must never 
bend outside or gape at the things outside, but "shut every door 
of the faculties of sense, so that he may not be enticed by the im- 
pressions of sense and their image may not penetrate into his 
mind." 95 

But the mind of him who sets himself to pray has not merely 
to be free from sense impressions. He must also put away all 
angry or licentious thoughts. 96 He must bear no malice or 
hatred in his heart. Thus he will observe the commandment of 
the Saviour when he says, "If ye stand praying, forgive, if ye 
have aught against anyone." 97 By such preparation for prayer 
it is clear that we have already obtained the greatest benefits. 
And, further, he must not approach God in prayer with a heart 
that is secretly discontented, grumbling against Providence and 
murmuring at its lot. Those who do this are like wicked servants 
who, though they do not openly cavil at their master's orders, 
nevertheless among themselves mutter their displeasure at them. 
We are warned against this sort of thing in Deuteronomy 98 in the 
saying, "Beware that there be not a hidden word in thine heart, 
a lawless thing." On the other hand, it is written of one who was 
sorely tempted by the trials of life to murmur: 99 "In all these 
happenings did not Job sin with his lips before God." 

This emphasis upon contemplation of God, apart from peti- 
tion, and its benefits to the soul, is characteristic of one aspect 
the mystical side of Origen, which has been recently the object 
of numerous studies. 1 By its means, he says, by this mental 
catharsis, he who prays becomes more capable of union with 
God, and participates in the prayer of our Advocate, the Word 
of God, who stands in the midst even of those who know him not, 
and never fails the prayer of anyone. 2 No doubt, for Origen, it 
was a stage on the way towards the heavenly vision, the 
epopteia of the Mysteries, which was and is the goal of all mystical 
aspiration. But it would be a complete mistake to suppose that 
Origen is unpractical and merely visionary in his treatment of 
the subject of prayer. Quite the contrary. It has been said that 

92 IX, 2. Matt. 6:6. 94 Col. 2:3. 95 XX, 2. 96 IX, i. 
97 Mark 11:25. 98 Deut. 15:9. 99 J o b 2:10. 

i Cf. J. Danieiou, Origin*, 287 f. 2 X, 2. 



ON PRAYER 20g 

mystics are among the most practical of people, and Origen 
appears to be an example of this fact, if it be a fact. For few 
writers have more definitely connected prayer with life, the 
vision of God with daily work, than he has in this treatise. He 
discusses 3 the meaning of Paul's command: "Pray without 
ceasing." 4 And it is to be noted that he makes no attempt to 
evade the difficulty evolved in it. Actual prayer, he says, ought 
to be engaged in not less than three times every day, citing the 
examples of Daniel 5 and Peter 6 and referring to relevant pas- 
sages in the Psalms. We can, however, regard "Pray without 
ceasing" as a practicable saying if we include the performance 
of good deeds and the fulfilling of commandments as part of the 
prayer. "That man 'prays without ceasing 5 who combines with 
the prayer the needful deeds and the prayer with the fitting 
actions." In other words, prayer and action based on it are not 
to be regarded as two things but as one, joined indissolubly to- 
gether. Thus we can "speak of the whole life of the saint as one 
great unbroken prayer." No other saying about prayer links up 
prayer so closely with practical duties. It is not as if we said 
labor are est or are or or are est labor are ^ as if the one could be regarded 
as an equivalent substitute for the other; but rather that both 
form part of a connected whole. Nor is it a saying which strives 
to balance the two sides of the Christian life the devotional 
and the practical and secure a fitting proportion between 
them: its purpose is rather to infuse new meaning into each of 
them, when it is shown that they are so interrelated as to form 
an integrated whole. Later on in the treatise, 7 in speaking about 
the opening words of the Lord's Prayer, he returns to this 
thought, which was evidently for him no passing phrase. "Do 
not let us think," he says, "that we are taught to say actual 
words at a certain fixed time of prayer. If we understand what 
has been said above in our discussion about 'praying without 
ceasing,' our whole life as we 'pray without ceasing' 8 shall say, 
'Our Father which art in heaven 3 : 9 its 'citizenship' shall in no 
wise be on earth but in every way 'in heaven,' 10 which is the 
'throne' 11 of God, for the kingdom of heaven is seated in all 
those who 'bear the image of the heavenly,' 12 and are therefore 
themselves heavenly." 

Origen's treatment of the practical benefits to be derived 

3 XII, 2. 4 I Thess. 5:17. s Dan. 6:10. 

6 Acts 10:9-11. 7 XXII, 5. * I Thess. 5:17. 

9 Matt. 6:9. 10 PhiL 3:20. ** Cf. Isa, 66:1. 

12 I Cor. 15:49. 
A.C. 14 



210 ORIGEN 

from prayer, as apart from its contemplative side, is enriched 
and fortified by the examples he gives from the Bible of the per- 
sonal advantages of prayer. In XIII, 2, he names, for example, 
Hannah, Hezekiah, Mordecai and Esther, Judith, the Three 
Holy Children, and Jonah. In all these cases the results of 
prayer were manifest and notable. And he prefaces them by 
reference to the supreme example, 13 Jesus, who prayed and did 
not pray in vain, obtaining what he asked for, and on one occa- 
sion testifying to the Father "I knew that thou hearest me 
always." 14 

If, as we have noted, 15 Origen begins his treatise with the 
thought of an absolutely transcendent God, he certainly does 
not leave us baffled and helpless when faced with God's awful 
remoteness. Origen, for all his transcendence, was no Deist. It 
is indeed rather from the intellectual aspect that he speaks of 
the vast gulf that separates God from men. Unaided, man can 
in no wise apprehend divine wisdom. But his doctrine of revela- 
tion is as clear and unhesitating as his doctrine of transcendence. 
What is impossible for man alone becomes possible through the 
grace of our Lord Jesus Christ and his Holy Spirit. 16 Through 
these channels mediation, illumination, grace, stream down 
from him who is above all. So it is that Origen's doctrine of 
prayer, and its benefits, is warm, rich and personal. To reject 
prayer, he says, is the tenet either of those who are downright 
atheists and deny the existence of God, or else of those who go 
as far as to accept the name of God, but do away with Provi- 
dence. * 7 On the other hand, the prayers commended by him 
are the prayers of those "who are confident in themselves that 
they stand before and speak to God as one who is present and 
hears." 18 It is evident that Origen was touched to the quick by 
the opinions subversive of prayer which his friends had com- 
municated to him. 19 And this was so because Origen the intel- 
lectualist, the critic, the speculator, was also Origen the mystic, 
the devoted disciple and the practical Christian. The latter 
aspect of him is, naturally enough, prominent in this treatise, 
which for this reason is indispensable if we are to form a 
balanced view of the man as a whole. 

Where Origen falls short of the richness of Bible teaching 
about prayer is in connection with the range of things for which 
the Christian ought to pray. As a Platonist he is convinced con- 
cerning the inferiority of the material world. It is shadowy, un- 

13 XIII, U 14 John 11:42, 15 p. 330. i* I, i. 

" V, i, is VIII, 2. 19 See pp. 247, 250. 



ON PRAYER 211 

substantial and of small account as compared with the true, 
substantial and abiding invisible realities. Consequently, the 
things that we can see, hear and touch with the bodily senses, 
indeed the whole life of the body, are comparatively of little 
moment. And when we approach the invisible God in prayer, 
it is not for these bodily things that we are to pray, but for the 
spiritual only. As we have noted elsewhere, 20 it is thus that 
Origen interprets the saying traditionally supposed to come 
from the Lord: "Ask for the great things, and the little things 
shall be added to you; and ask for the heavenly things, and the 
earthly things shall be added unto you" 21 the ' 'little" and 
"earthly" things being, of course, the things of the body. 
Accordingly, "earnest seekers after spiritual life in Christ" 
should "turn away from prayer for trivial and earthly things," 
and pursue instead things mystical, of which the aforesaid are 
types. 22 The Old Testament, indeed, tells of material benefits 
bestowed upon the saints in answer to their prayers; but these 
only foreshadow the greater, immaterial blessings that flow, 
under the New Covenant, to the Christian through prayer. If 
Hannah in her barrenness was given a child in answer to her 
prayer, 23 so also "souls that have long been sterile, perceiving 
the barrenness of their own reason and the sterility of their own 
mind, have by the Holy Spirit through persistent prayer con- 
ceived and given birth to saving words." 24 Similarly, the 
deliverances from bodily dangers and death, vouchsafed to 
Hezekiah, Esther, Judith, the Three Holy Children, and Jonah, 
are but types of deliverances today from the spiritual hosts of 
wickedness. It is on these lines that, in XVI, 2, Origen answers 
an objection that may be made to his treatment of this matter, 
namely that the Bible tells of things pertaining to the body as 
being granted to prayer, and the Saviour speaks of such things 
as being "added" unto us. Take an illustration, he says, from 
ordinary life. "If some one were to give us a bodily object of any 
kind whatsoever, we should not say that such a one bestowed 
upon us the shadow of the bodily object. For in giving the bodily 
object he did not design to give two things, the object and its 
shadow, but the design of the giver was to give the bodily ob- 
ject: it followed, however, that with the gift of the object we 
also received its shadow. Similarly, when our understanding has 
grown in stature and we note what are the gifts which are pre- 
eminently given us by God, we shall say that bodily things are 
20 Pp. 331 f. 21 II, 2. 22 XIII, 4. 

23 XIII, 2. 24 XIII, 3. 



212 ORIGEN 

the most natural accompaniments of the great and heavenly 
gifts." 

In XVII, i, Origen continues the same line of thought, and 
this time employs an illustration from the sun-dial. In some 
latitudes and seasons, he says, the gnomon of the dial casts no 
shadow. This causes no concern to the man who rejoices in the 
sunlight. "If a man who seeks the rays of the sun has this indis- 
pensable thing, he is neither rejoiced nor grieved by the presence 
or absence of bodily shadows. ... So also, if spiritual things are 
present to us and we are being enlightened by God in the com- 
plete possession of what is truly good, we shall not waste words 
about the paltry thing that is the shadow. For all material and 
bodily things, of whatever kind they may be, have the value 
of an unsubstantial and feeble shadow, and can in no way be 
compared with the saving and holy gifts of the God of the 
universe." Likewise, the petitionary part of the model prayer 
outlined in XXXIII, i, is to be concerned with "great and 
heavenly things." 

This point of view is carried by Origen to its logical conclu- 
sion in his treatment of the petition: "Give us this day our daily 
bread." 25 "Some suppose," he says, "that we are told to pray con- 
cerning material bread." But the opinion is false and must be 
refuted. The Lord who has taught us elsewhere to pray for 
"great" and "heavenly" things cannot forget here his own 
teaching, and command us to ask the Father for a "small" and 
"earthly" thing. The true interpretation, according to Origen, 
is along the lines of certain sayings in John, ch. 6, as for 
example: "Work not for the meat which perisheth, but for the 
meat which abideth unto eternal life." 26 This spiritualizing of 
what seems on the face of it to be a petition for bodily sustenance 
is comparable with Clement of Alexandria's treatment of the 
"riches" which the young man in the Gospels was told to give 
up. "So with regard to the rich, who shall hardly enter the 
kingdom, we must understand the word in the spirit of disciples, 
and not clumsily, rudely, or literally; for it is not spoken thus." 27 
Both passages illustrate the weakness of the Alexandrines in the 
lengths to which they will push their interpretation of Scripture 
in the interests of their philosophy of life. 

Towards the end of the treatise Origen turns to particulars 
concerning the posture and the subjects of prayer. When we are 
praying, he says, "that attitude in which the hands are stretched 
out and eyes lifted up is to be preferred to all others." 28 This 
2* XXVII, i. 2<s John 6:27. 27 QJUS Dives* 18. 23 XXXI, 2. 



ON PRAYER 213 

is an image of the qualities suitable to the soul and mind, by 
virtue of which the soul is intent upon its object and the mind 
directed to God. Standing (which Origen assumes to be the 
normal posture in prayer) is also a symbol, signifying that the 
reason is not earth-bound but lifted up towards the Lord of all. 
There is, however, a kind of prayer which demands that we 
should kneel. 29 "When one is about to accuse oneself of his sins 
before God, supplicating him for healing therefrom and for for- 
giveness thereof," then kneeling "is a symbol of the man who is 
abject and submissive." But it is not clear if this refers to a parti- 
cular prayer of an especially penitentiary character or to the 
penitential part of the model prayer that he outlines later on. 30 
In praying, we should turn towards the east. 31 It is the quarter 
in which the sun rises: therefore prayer in that direction is sym- 
bolical of the soul looking to the rising of the true light. 

Prayer, says Origen, ought to fall into four parts according 
to subject. 30 First, in the beginning or preamble, God is to be 
glorified through Christ in the Holy Spirit. Next comes thanks- 
giving, both general and particular. In the third place comes 
confession of sin, followed by prayer for deliverance from the 
habit of sin and for forgiveness of the past. In the fourth place, 
he who prays should "add his request for great and heavenly 
things, his own and general, and also for his family and his 
dearest." Finally, the prayer should end as it began, by glori- 
fying God through Christ in the Holy Spirit. Characteristically, 
Origen bases these subjects of prayer on Holy Scripture, and 
gives examples therefrom of each of the four subjects. 

ORIGEN'S TREATMENT OF THE LORD'S PRAYER 
Chapters XVIII to XXX 

As a textual scholar Origen carefully distinguishes between the 
forms of the Prayer as found in Matthew and Luke, respectively. 
It might seem, he says, to most people that these Evangelists 
record the same prayer. But he rejects this point of view on two 
grounds: first, on account of their differences; and, secondly, 
because the prayers are found in two different contexts: Mat- 
thew placing it in the Sermon on the Mount, Luke as the answer 
to a disciple who asked the Lord, "Teach us to pray." ^ So he 
thinks that perhaps the preferable view of the matter is that 
"the prayers are different, though they have some parts 
common." 33 

29 XXXI, 3. 30 XXXIII, I. 31 XXXII. 33 XVIII, 2, 3. 



214- ORIGEN 

It is characteristic also that before he speaks about the 
Prayer itself he should expatiate on the introduction to the 
Prayer in Matthew, with its teaching on how we are to pray 
this point being a feature of this treatise. Indeed Origen himself 
reminds us that he has already dealt with the manner of our 
approach to prayer. Accordingly he has a good deal to say 
about the Lord's teaching concerning the manner of praying, 
as given in Matthew 6:5-9, upon which he comments at large 
in his usual discursive manner. 

The texts, as given by Origen, in XVIII, 2, are, with one 
trifling exception, 34 identical with those that underlie the 
rendering of the Revised Version. So the prayers are as follows: 

Our Father which art in heaven. 

Hallowed be thy name. 

Thy kingdom come. 

Thy will be done, as in heaven, so on earth. 

Give us this day our daily bread. 

And forgive us our debts, as we also have forgiven our 

debtors. 

And bring us not into temptation. 
But deliver us from the evil one* 35 

and 

Father, 

Hallowed be thy name. 

Thy kingdom come. 

Give us day by day our daily bread. 

And forgive us our sins; 

For we ourselves ako forgive every one who is indebted to 

us. 
And bring us not into temptation. 36 

There is no reference to the variant "Let thy Holy Spirit 
come upon us and cleanse us" (in place of "Thy kingdom come" 
or "Hallowed be thy name") which is attested by Origen's 
disciple Gregory of Nyssa among others, nor, of course, to the 
much later doxology. After dealing with the Introduction to the 
Prayer as given in Matthew, Origen proceeds to comment, at 
varying lengths, upon each petition separately. 

34 In the Lukan version Origen has T< <*eWrt instead of o^Xovn* 

35 Matt. 6:9-13. 3* Luke 11:2-4. 



ON PRAYER 215 

OUR FATHER WHICH ART IN HEAVEN 

Chapters XXII, XXIII 

Origen notes from his express examination of the Scriptures 
for this point that to address God as Father in prayer is a dis- 
tinctively Christian attitude, as distinguished from the usage of 
the Old Testament, where indeed God is often styled " Father" 
and men his "sons, 35 but not in a prayer. The use of "Father" in 
prayer by our Lord indicates a confident, firm and unchangeable 
affirmation as concerning our relationship to God. But a caveat 
is necessary. Sonship, according to Origen, is not simply a 
status, it involves character, good works, and a state of progres- 
sive conformation to the divine image. On the other hand, "he 
that doeth sin" 37 has within him the seed of the devil, and so long 
as it is inherent in the soul he cannot "right himself." It is when 
the Word of God dwells in him that it is possible for the works 
of the devil to be destroyed, for the evil seed to be done away 
with, and for him to become the child of God. 

The words "which art in heaven" give Origen an opportunity 
which he is by no means loath to take of denying that God is 
circumscribed in bodily fashion and dwells locally in heaven, 
If this were so, it would follow that God was less than, because 
contained by, "heaven." Such an idea arises from a too literal 
interpretation of these and other words in the Bible on the part 
of simple folk. But these passages must be understood in a man- 
ner that befits grand and spiritual conceptions of God. Origen 
then proceeds to mention some of them and to expound them 
in a spiritual sense. And he points out further that to suppose 
that God is in a place after the manner of a body leads to the 
most impious opinions, namely, that he is a body, and therefore 
divisible, material and corruptible. This vigorous passage shows 
us Origen at his best as an interpreter of Scripture. It has also 
an historical significance, inasmuch as in later times, in the fifth 
century, some of his most ignorant opponents certain monks 
attacked him on the score of his teaching that God must not be 
thought of as possessing anything like a human form. 38 

HALLOWED BE THY NAME 

Chapter XXIV 

As arising out of this petition, Origen asks three questions: 
(i) Can a man ask that the name of God be hallowed, as if it 
& 1 John 3:8. 3* F. J. Fpakes Jackson, History of the Christian Churchy 445. 



2l6 ORIGEN 

had not been hallowed? (2) What is the "name" of the Father? 
(3) What is its hallowing? The second question is answered 
first. A "name" is "a compendious appellation manifesting the 
individual quality of the being named. For example, Paul the 
apostle has a certain individual quality; a quality of soul, which 
makes it of a certain kind; a quality of mind, which makes him 
capable of contemplating certain kinds of things; a quality of 
body, which makes it of a certain kind. The individuality of 
these qualities, which is incommunicable to another (for no be- 
ing is exactly similar to Paul) is indicated by the name 'Paul. 5 " 
To apply this to God the idea that we are taught to have 
within us of God is that he is holy, and this conception of God is 
manifested to us in his several actions, when "he creates, fore- 
sees, judges, chooses, forsakes, receives, turns away from, deems 
worthy of honour, punishes each one according to his deserts." 
In this way the individual quality of God is characterized for us: 
and we have what is called the "name of God" in the Scriptures. 
Anyone who connects the idea of God with things that are not 
fitting "takes the name of the Lord in vain." On the other hand, 
he who by his words refreshes, encourages or edifies the soul of 
another, is able to do this because of the "name": for the char- 
acter of God is seen in his action upon men for their own good 
and that of their fellows. So we come to question (3), What is 
the "hallowing" of God's name? Origen quotes Ps. 34:3: "Let 
us exalt his name together." We are commanded here, he says, 
"to haste unto the true and lofty knowledge of the distinctive 
being of God." "To exalt the name of God" is when "a man 
partaking of Deity exalts that very power of God of which he 
has partaken," The answer to question (i) is left to the end of 
the chapter. When we say, "Hallowed be thy name," though 
the verb is in the imperative mood, the meaning is optative "may 
thy name be hallowed." This usage, says Origen, occurs fre- 
quently in the Septuagint. Tatian, in fact, imagined wrongly, 
from its frequent use, that it was always so, and accordingly fell 
into error concerning expressions in the first chapter of Genesis. 

THY KINGDOM COME 

Chapter XXV 

For Origen the kingdom of God is immanent and spiritual. 
He has no qualms, as some moderns seem to have, about accept- 
ing the saying in Luke "the kingdom of God cometh not with 
observation: neither shall they say, Lo, here! or Lo, there! but 



ON PRAYER 217 

the kingdom of God is within you." 39 Indeed, he combines with 
this the saying in Deuteronomy, 40 "the word is very nigh, in 
your mouth, and in your heart. 35 "I think/' he says, "that by 
God's kingdom is meant the blessed state of the reason and the 
ordered condition of wise thoughts." "Every saint who takes 
God as his king and obeys the spiritual laws of God dwells in 
himself as in a well-ordered city." He draws a distinction be- 
tween the kingdom of God and the kingdom of Christ. The 
latter is rather a saving power that goes forth into the world and 
is seen in action. "By Christ's kingdom is meant the words that 
go forth for the salvation of those who hear them and the works 
of righteousness and the other virtues which are being accom- 
plished." This distinction helps Origen to lead up eventually to 
one of his favourite texts, which speaks of the time when Christ 
"shall deliver up the kingdom to God, even the Father . . . that 
God may be all in all." 41 

But the use of this text also indicates that for Origen the 
eschatological element in the kingdom of God was not entirely 
lacking. Indeed, when he speaks of the kingdom as being within 
us, he acknowledges that he may be met with the objection, 
Why, then, should we pray: "Thy kingdom come 53 ? How shall 
a man "still fittingly pray concerning things that are present 
already as if they were not present 55 ? The answer is that spiritual 
knowledge and understanding (with which Origen's conception 
of "salvation 55 is largely bound up) must be a growing thing. 
We have "the word of knowledge 55 and "the word of wisdom 5 ' 
even now, but we nevertheless pray for these things, to receive 
more and more of them, so that in this present life our knowledge 
"in part" will become as great as may be. When, however, 
"that which is perfect is come," the mind without sense percep- 
tion will come in contact with spiritual realities, and without 
this the perfection of the "kingdom" cannot be. Our journey, 
therefore, in this life is "unto perfection"; 42 and as we advance 
unceasingly the kingdom of God that is in us will reach its 
highest point when the saying of I Cor. 15:28 is fulfilled. So we 
may fittingly here and now pray, "Thy kingdom come," even 
though "the kingdom of God is within us. 55 Similarly also, in 
the moral life the work of God within us, begun now, will be 
perfected when our corruptible has put on incorruption, and 
the mortal has put on immortality. 

39 Luke 17:20, 21. * Dcut. 30:14. 

41 I Cor. 15:24, 28. 

42 Heb. 6:1. 



2l8 ORIGEN 

THY WILL BE DONE, AS IN HEAVEN SO ON EARTH 

Chapter XXVI 

Origen points out that the words "as in heaven, so on earth" 
are to be taken not only with "Thy will be done/' but also with 
"Hallowed be thy name" and "Thy kingdom come. 53 

When we do the will of God when on earth, he says, we are 
made like unto those in heaven, inasmuch as we bear, as they 
do, the image of the heavenly and shall inherit heaven. 

An objection to the petition is next considered. We are told 
that there are spiritual hosts of wickedness in the heavenly 
places, 43 who bring about evil things on earth. If therefore we 
pray that God's will be done on earth as it is in heaven, we may 
unwittingly pray that these opposing forces may remain on 
earth, to which they came from heaven. A solution to this diffi- 
culty is ready to hand if we allegorize "heaven" and "earth," 
understanding "heaven" as "Christ" and "earth" as "the 
Church." We shall then be praying that even as Christ accom- 
plished the Father's will in its entirety, so we, the members of 
the Church, being joined to Christ and become one spirit 44 with 
him, may likewise achieve it. (It is no objection to this that 
Christ says he has been given all authority in heaven and on 
earth; 45 for Christ is both man and Saviour, man mingled with 
Deity, and therefore, both realms being his, he takes as his 
fellow-workers his disciples that he may bring the things on 
earth to a blessed issue.) But it still remains, on the ordinary 
interpretation, to explain how the will of God is done in heaven, 
when the spiritual hosts of wickedness are in the heavenly 
places, wrestling against those on earth. Origen replies, in 
effect, "Because the mind is its own place." These hosts do not 
really dwell in heaven, because of their evil disposition; and 
therefore when we pray, "Thy will be done, as in heaven, so on 
earth," it is not to be reckoned that they are in heaven, since 
they have fallen in mind with Satan who fell from heaven like 
lightning. 46 Similarly, he whose citizenship is in heaven, though 
still on earth, is no longer of the earth in the world below, but 
of heaven and of the heavenly world that is better than this one. 

GIVE US THIS DAY OUR DAILY BREAD 

Chapter XXVII 

This is one of the longest chapters on the Lord's Prayer, and 
certainly the least satisfactory. Dominated, as we have already 
Eph. 6:12. 44 I Cor. 6:17. 4s Matt. 28:18. Luke 10:18. 



ON PRAYER 2ig 

remarked, 47 by the Platonic conception of the material world, 
Origen dismisses the plain, literal meaning of this petition. In 
fact he asserts that it is a false opinion, to be refuted, to suppose 
that we are here told to pray concerning material (lit. "bodily") 
bread. 48 Accordingly, the 'bread" we pray for is not the bread 
that is to lie on our tables, but the meat which abideth unto 
eternal life, which the Son of man shall give. To feed on it 
is to feed on the spiritual teachings of Christ. "What is more 
nourishing to the soul than the Word, and what is more precious 
to the mind of him who makes room for it than the Wisdom 
of God? And what is more appropriate to the rational soul than 
truth? 35 v 

Scripture, however, calls every kind of food "bread," and 
therefore the Word which nourishes is varied and diverse, for 
not all are able to be nourished by the solidity and vigorous 
force of the divine teachings. 50 Thus Origen introduces us to one 
of his favourite thoughts, as we have seen, 51 that of different 
grades of hearers who live on different levels of spiritual appre- 
hension, and must be treated by the teacher accordingly. 52 

The unusual word for "daily" (tmovaLos) bread next claims 
Origen's attention. He gives his view that it was coined by the 
evangelists. 53 He derives it from epi and ousia: 54 (the bread that 
comes together) into substance, and he compares periousios 
laos, 55 the people (dwelling) around substance. 

The mention of the word ousia is sufficient to set Origen off 
into a philosophical disquisition, 56 and he now proceeds to give 
an account of the views of different schools of thought on "sub- 
stance." This done, he shows that there must be a kinship in 
"substance" between the bread given and the person who re- 
ceives it. The bread, as he believes to have shown, is "spiritual." 
Therefore epiousios bread 56 "is that which is best adapted to a 
reasonable nature and akin to it in its very substance: it pro- 
vides at once health and strength and vigour to the soul, and 
imparts a share of its own immortality (for the word of God is 
immortal) to him who eats of it." 57 He ends this part of the dis- 
cussion by references from the Bible to food partaken in common 

47 See pp. 210 f. 48 XXVII, i. 

49 XXVII, 2. 50 XXVII, 4. 

5i See pp. 199 f. 52 XXVII, 4-6. 

53 See note, p. 363. 

54 Elsewhere (section 13) he rejects the derivation from epienai "to come 
close upon." 

55 Ex. 19:5. XXVII, 8. 
57 XXVII, 9. 



22O ORIGEN 

by men on the one hand and greater and inferior spiritual 
powers on the other. 58 There is no reference to the Eucharist. 
The remainder 59 of the chapter is concerned with the meaning 
of "today" and "day by day," which Origen interprets as this 
present age and successive ages, respectively. 

FORGIVE US OUR DEBTS, AS WE ALSO HAVE FORGIVEN 
OUR DEBTORS 

Chapter XXVIII 

In contrast to his treatment of the foregoing petition, Origen 
expounds this one with refreshing realism. We all owe debts to 
one another, he says, not only in respect of money, but also in 
respect of particular actions, and gentle speech, and a charitable 
disposition. Further, there are debts to be paid because we are 
in a certain relationship to others debts to our brethren in 
Christ, and debts due from us as citizens, as husband or wife, as 
a widow cared for by the Church, as a deacon, or presbyter, or 
bishop, and we have a debt to ourselves so to use the body that 
we do not waste its powers in pleasure. And, above all, we owe 
it to God to love him with all our heart and strength and mind; 
we are debtors to Christ, since he has bought us with a price, and 
also to the Holy Spirit. We are debtors also to our guardian 
angel, even though we do not know precisely who he is. 

Others are in debt to us: but we must be gentle towards them, 
when they are slow in paying back, remembering the parable of 
the unmerciful servant. There is a limitation, however, in re- 
spect of our forgiveness of others, says Origen: and with this 
point he closes the chapter. It might seem, when Luke adds 
"for we ourselves also forgive everyone that is indebted to us," 
that there is no such limitation. But the Lord said to the apostles, 
"whose soever sins ye retain, they are retained," 60 and John 
says: "There is a sin unto death: not concerning this do I say 
that he should make request." 61 In the law also a sacrifice 
might not be offered for presumptuous sins. It follows, then, 
that the Christian also, the true follower of Jesus, forgives what 
God forgives, and retains such sins as God retains. This leads 
Origen on to refer to those persons 62 who have arrogated to 
themselves powers beyond the priestly office and boast that they 
are able to pardon even idolatry and forgive even such deadly 
sins as adultery or fornication. 

58 XXVII, 10-12. 59 XXVII, 13-16. <so John 20:23. 

<si I John 5:16. 62 See p. 310. 



ON PRAYER 221 

BRING US NOT INTO TEMPTATION 

Chapter XXIX 

It is not surprising to anyone who knows Origen that he at 
once faces the obvious difficulty confronting the interpretation 
of this petition. How can we be bidden, he asks, to use these 
words in prayer 3 when the whole of human life upon earth is a 
temptation? 63 While on earth we are compassed about with the 
flesh that warreth against the spirit, 64 and we wrestle, not only 
with the flesh, but also against the spiritual hosts of wicked- 
ness? 65 And Paul tells the Corinthians, not that God will not 
suffer them to be tempted, but that he will not suffer them to be 
tempted beyond their power. 66 Other passages of Scripture are 
brought in for the purpose of proving the inevitability of temp- 
tation. Even the apostles were not free from it, as is clear from 
Paul's account, in the Epistles to the Corinthians, of his trials 
and sufferings. Moreover, temptation assails men in every 
condition of life the poor, the rich, the sick, the whole, persons 
of low as well as those of high degree, the abject and those who 
are held in high esteem among men. Even the Saviour was 
tempted, and like the bridegroom in the Song of Songs, looking 
at us through the meshes of temptation, bids us arise. 67 Indeed, 
temptation lurks even in the reading of the Holy Scriptures, as 
is evident from the errors of those who, like the Marcionites, 68 
misinterpret the doctrine of God as it is set forth in the Old and 
New Testaments. 

The true meaning, therefore, of the petition in the Lord's 
Prayer is "not that we may not be tempted (for that cannot be), 
but that we may not be encompassed by temptation, a thing 
that happens to those who are held fast in it and overcome." 
(Similarly, Origen interprets the warning "not to enter into 
temptation" 69 as meaning to avoid being encompassed by 
temptation.) 

It is impossible, then, to think that the good God should en- 
compass anyone with evil and cause him to be held fast by it. 
It may be said, however, that the Lord in giving the Prayer was 
speaking to men of prayer and exhorting them to prayer against 
temptation. What of those who do not pray, or those whose 
prayer cannot be heard? Can God lead them into temptation 
in the sense of being brought under its domination? This question 

Quoting Job 7:1. Gal. 5:17. es Eph. 6:12. 

66 I COT. 10:13. 67 See pp. 376 f. 

They are not actually named. Cf. Luke 22:40. 



222 ORIGEN 

is suggested by such phrases as are found in the first chapter 
of Romans with reference to persons of dissolute character. 
"God gave them up in the lusts of their hearts unto unclean- 
ness"; "God gave them up unto vile passions"; "God gave them 
up unto a reprobate mind." The Marcionites cannot maintain 
that these words are used of the God of the law (who, they 
mistakenly suppose, is other than the good Father of our Lord 
Jesus Christ) and therefore they must find in them a stumbling- 
block to their notions. Nevertheless, the difficulty in such phrases 
as "God gave them up unto vile passions," as well as in "Bring 
us not into temptation," remains. How is it to be overcome? 
Origen puts forward the following solution. 70 

"I verily believe that God orders every rational soul with a 
view to its eternal life, and that it always maintains its free will, 
and of its own motion either mounts higher and higher until it 
reaches the pinnacle of virtue, or on the contrary descends 
through carelessness to this or that excess of wickedness." If the 
soul chooses the downward grade, and falls into a sinful state, 
it may be that a rapid and brief cure will cause it to regard 
lightly the disease into which it has fallen, so that after being 
restored to health it may fall the second time into the same con- 
dition. Therefore in such cases God may for a time disregard 
increasing wickedness up to a certain point, and even overlook 
it when it has developed to such an extent as to be incurable, in 
order that the soul may take its fill of evil, and being glutted 
with the sin it desires may at last become conscious of its evil 
plight and hate what it formerly welcomed. A parallel is adduced 
from "the mixed multitude" when in the wilderness they lusted 
after the fleshpots of Egypt. 71 The Lord glutted them with the 
food they desired "for a month of days" until it came out at 
their nostrils and became loathsome unto them. 72 So also the 
kind and good God may even be said to "give up" men to their 
evil passions, in order to satiate them with their lust; that, this 
life ended, they may no longer wish to return to them, but 
recognizing their desperate condition may of their own free will 
come to hate that which they formerly desired and seek for 
heavenly things. 

The chapter ends with a short account of the use of tempta- 
tion. It reveals character. What our soul has received is unknown 
to all except God is unknown even to ourselves; but it is mani- 
fested by means of temptations. Temptations when they come 
TO XXIX, 13. 7i Num. 11:4-6. 

7 * Num. 11:18-30. 



ON PRAYER 223 

make it plain to us of what sort we are, make known the hidden 
things of the heart. This is clearly stated in Scripture, as, for 
example, in the passage in Deuteronomy which says that the 
trials in the wilderness were sent in order that the things in 
the heart of God's people might be made known. 73 Similarly, the 
temptations which beset Eve, Cain, the sons of Noah, Esau, and 
Joseph did not for the first time make them what they were seen 
to be, but rather manifested the weakness or strength that al- 
ready lay in their characters. Therefore we must not wait until 
the temptations come, but prepare ourselves by the power of 
God in the times between temptations, so that we shall not be 
proved unready when they come. 

DELIVER US FROM THE EVIL ONE 

Chapter XXX 

The student of Origen will not need to be told that he be- 
lieved in a personal devil. Consequently, it is clear throughout 
the short passage which deals with this petition that he inter- 
prets rov irovrjpov as masculine, with the Revised Version, and 
not as neuter with the Authorized Version. The passages of 
Scripture used to describe the assaults of the devil are Eph. 6:16 
and Job, chs. i and 2. Origen expounds "Deliver us from the 
evil one" on the same lines as "Bring us not into temptation." 
God delivers us from the evil one, not when the enemy or the 
ministers of his will in no way attack us, but when we conquer 
bravely, taking a firm stand against circumstances. This is 
clearly indicated in the Book of Job. The patriarch was delivered 
from the evil one, not by immunity from attacks of the devil 
(for the Lord gave him authority to attack Job), but by the fact 
that in all his trials "Job sinned not before the Lord." The ex- 
perience of the Saviour in the wilderness likewise illustrates the 
meaning of this petition. His deliverance consisted, not in ab- 
sence of temptation (indeed, he was three times assailed), but in 
his conquest over it. As for ourselves, the soul must be prepared 
for such attacks, if we are to overcome them. We are to have 
within ourselves "rivers of water springing up unto eternal 
life/' 74 if we are to quench "the fiery darts of the evil one." 75 
Contemplation of the truth will stamp upon the soul of the 
spiritual athlete inspired and saving thoughts for his use in time 
of need. 

73 Deut. 8:2, 3, 15* 74 John 7:38; 4:14. 

75 Eph. 6:16. 



224 ORIGEN 

COMPARISON WITH THE De Oratione OF TERTULLIAN 

Origen was not the first of the Fathers to write a treatise on 
Prayer and the Lord's Prayer, being preceded in this respect by 
about twenty years by Tertullian, whose work is placed between 
the limits of 196-203 76 or 200-206. 77 The purpose and scope of 
the two treatises are so different that any attempted comparison 
between them is certainly very difficult and may seem to be 
even misleading. Origen writes, as we have seen, primarily for 
Christians of standing and intelligence, who were disingenuous 
enough to propound questions which struck at the very root of 
the efficacy of prayer. Tertullian wrote for catechumens, 78 who 
are described in his De Baptismo as " those whom the grace of 
God awaits"; and he assumes without question the rationale of 
prayer. Again, as regards length, Origen's treatise occupies 106 
pages of the Berlin Corpus of the Fathers, Tertullian's twenty 
pages only of the Vienna Corpus^ and the treatments of the 
Lord's Prayer vary correspondingly in length. But against this 
disparity in length we must set the fact that Tertullian is as 
concise as Origen is discursive. 

In spite of these differences of approach to the subject, how- 
ever, a comparison between the two treatises may have its value, 
since no two men can traverse the same ground without reveal- 
ing those differences which lie deeper than the mere setting in 
which their treatment of the theme is found, and also the com- 
mon ground, great or small, on which, in spite of differences, 
they stand. 

In this particular case, the common ground is by no means 
large. There are, however, a few points of resemblance between 
the two treatments of the subject. For both writers the Lord's 
Prayer is the primary source and model of Christian teaching to 
which they refer. Again, both writers dwell on what the Sermon 
on the Mount (Matt. ch. 6) has to say about ostentation and 
"much speaking" in prayer. The distinctively Christian address 
of "Father" in prayer is noted by both writers. And they both 
speak of the proper attitude of mind and disposition of him who 
comes to prayer. There must be no hatred of our brother, or 
anger, or even perturbation of mind. 79 

But at the outset of the treatment of the Lord's Prayer itself, 

7 Harnack. 77 Bardenhewer and d'Ales. 

78 "consideremus itaque, benedict!," ch. I. For benedicti see De Baptismo > 

XX: "benedicti, quos gratia del expectat." 
w Tertullian De Oratione, chs. XI, XII. 



ON PRAYER 225 

differences begin to appear. Origen is a critical, textual scholar. 
He notes that the Prayer, according to the Gospels, was given 
on two different occasions, and that the text of the two prayers 
differs considerably. Before he begins his exegesis, he sets out the 
two texts, 80 and continues to keep their differences before him. 
Tertullian, on the other hand, ignores the presence of these 
differences (if he knew of them), and confines his exposition to 
what is broadly speaking a version of the Matthaean text; 
although, curiously enough, he begins simply with "Pater," 81 
as does the Lukan text. Even though his version contains at least 
one feature which must have been abnormal (he places "Thy 
kingdom come' 5 after "Hallowed be thy Name, Thy will be 
done in heaven and on earth"), he does not comment upon any 
facts of this kind. 

In the exegesis of the Prayer much of the difference in the two 
writers is to be traced ultimately to a difference in philosophical 
outlook, conscious in the case of Origen, perhaps unconscious 
for Tertullian, and particularly in respect of transcendence and 
immanence, material and spiritual. For Origen 82 the kingdom 
is above all things immanent and spiritual, and the eschatolo- 
gical aspect is secondary and in the sense that the spiritual 
apprehension of the truth must go on growing and increasing 
until the consummation is reached, when that which is perfect 
is come, and God shall be all in all. Tertullian, 83 on the other 
hand, emphasizes the literal and eschatological sense of the 
kingdom of God. It is true that there is never a time when God 
does not reign; and he reigns in us: but the coming of the king- 
dom is the coining manifestation of the rule of God. It is future. 
The souls of the martyrs beneath the altar cry out, "How long?" 
It is for us a matter of earnest expectation. Tertullian's attitude 
is definitely "other-worldly." He would approve of the senti- 
ment of the prayer in which we ask God "shortly to accomplish 
the number of thine elect and to hasten thy kingdom." Chris- 
tians, he says, are illogical if with the words "Thy kingdom 
come" on their lips they desire any delay of the final consum- 
mation, seeing that now we are in servitude, then we shall reign: 
"optamus maturius regnare, et non diutius servire." 

In expounding the petition "Thy will be done, on earth as it 
is in heaven," both writers admit that a simple, literal inter- 
pretation is on the surface impossible. But when they proceed 
to consider what the deeper, spiritual meaning of "earth" and 
so Ch. XVIII. si But in Ado. Prax., 23, "Pater noster." 

82 XXV, I, 2, 83 CH. V. 

A.G. 15 



226 ORIGEN 

"heaven" may be, they part company. Tertullian 84 holds that, 
in this sense, "earth" and "heaven" mean, respectively, "flesh" 
and "spirit," Origen allegorizes differently. He notes the diffi- 
culty arising out of the fact that there are spiritual hosts of 
wickedness in the heavenly places. "Heaven" may mean, then, 
"Christ"; while "earth" may be interpreted "the Church."** 
But he goes on to give another, and, it would appear, a prefer- 
able interpretation, namely, that setting aside all local and 
temporal ideas, he that doeth the will of God is "heaven," and 
persons of bad character are "earth." 86 

In the next petition, even more marked differences of treat- 
ment appear. As we have noted, Origen spiritualizes altogether 
the "daily bread": and in fact calls it a false opinion to hold 
that material bread is spoken of. 87 Tertullian 88 extols the 
Divine Wisdom which has so arranged the order of the prayer 
that after things heavenly should come earthly necessities. This, 
he points out, is in accordance with the command: "Seek ye 
first the kingdom, and then these things also shall be added unto 
you." Having said so much, however, Tertullian goes on to say 
that "nevertheless we may rather understand 'Give us this day 
our daily bread 3 spiritually. For Christ is our Bread, and Christ 
is Life, and bread is life, and he said C I am the Bread of life. 5 " 
But even on this plane of interpretation differences between the 
two writers manifest themselves. Tertullian at once speaks of 
the Eucharist and of the bread of which Christ said, "This is 
my body." Origen, who has a long disquisition on the petition, 
never includes in it a reference to the Eucharist: to feed on 
Christ is to feed on his spiritual teachings. 

The remaining two petitions of the Lord's Prayer do not 
provide much material for the purposes of comparison, either 
in respect of agreement or of disagreement. And so we may pass 
on to underline an important difference between the two 
treatises that is to be found throughout them as a whole. Origen 
speaks almost entirely of private prayer, of individual prayer, 
although he notes the added value of prayers in common when 
Christian disciples meet for worship; 89 and he refers very sel- 
dom to the ordinances of the Church. 90 Tertullian, on the other 
hand, at the outset of his treatise, 91 places prayer in the context 
of the Church. Speaking of the opening words of the Lord's 
Prayer, he says, "In the Father the Son is invoked; for %' saith 

84 Cb. IV, 85 XXVI, 4. 86 XXVI, 6. 

87 XXVII, I. 8S Ch. VI. 89 XXXI, 5. 

See pp. 201 f. si Ch. II. 



ON PRAYER 227 

he, c and the Father are one" 5 (notably different from Origen, 
who allows prayer in the proper sense of the term to be addressed 
to the Father only). 92 Then 3 rather naively, he adds, "Nor is 
even our mother the Church passed by, if, that is, in the Father 
and the Son is recognized the mother, from whom arises the 
name both of Father and Son." Accordingly in the course of the 
treatise, and especially when he comes to speak of the manner 
and posture and place of prayer, he has many references to 
Church ordinances and seasons and customs the liturgical 
setting of prayer. He speaks of Eucharist and the words "This 
is my body," 93 of the kiss of peace., and about communicating 
on station days. 94 Later on, he mentions the singing of the Psalms 
and the liturgical use of Alleluia. 95 Speaking of the question of 
kneeling at prayer, 96 he mentions that though some refrained 
from kneeling on Saturdays., the tradition he has received is that 
we do not kneel on Sundays or in the Spatio Pentecostes (? interval 
between Easter and Pentecost) "quae eadem exultationis sol- 
lemnitate dispungitur." We are, however, to kneel on fasts and 
station days; and we ought to prostrate ourselves before God 
every day, or certainly when we pray the first thing in the 
morning. Per contra^ when Origen 97 is discussing this question, 
he speaks only of kneeling as a symbol of the man who is abject 
and submissive, and says nothing about kneeling in church. 

Again, when we compare passages which cite the Scriptures 
as proving the power and efficacy of prayer, we discover a dif- 
ference of outlook between the two writers. We have seen 98 
what Origen's treatment of "Give us this day our daily bread" 
is, and also how he contrasts the Old Testament with its record 
of material benefits vouchsafed through prayer with the purely 
spiritual objects, the "great and heavenly things/' for which a 
Christian ought to pray. In fact, when he says 99 that prayers 
similar to those which brought blessing to Old Testament saints 
are answered also today, he is not referring to the same kind of 
answer but to a spiritualized version of it. Tertullian's treatment 
of this matter is different. The concluding chapter 1 of his De 
Oratione is an eloquent description of the power and efficacy of 
prayer. Like Origen he contrasts Old Testament with Christian 
prayers. "Prayer in olden times, indeed, used to free from fires 
and from beasts and from famine" (he is probably referring to 

92 XV, i. 93 Ch, VI. * 4 Ghs. XVIII, XIX. 

95 Chs. XXVII, XXVIII. 96 Ch. XXIII. 

97 XXXI, 3. 98 Pp. 218 ff., 263-266. 

99 XIII, 3. i XXIX. 



228 ORIGEN 

Dan., chs. 3 and 6, and I Kings, ch. 18, with James 5:17,18) 
"but how far more fully operative is Christian prayer! It does 
not station the angel of dew in mid fires, 2 nor stop the mouths of 
lions nor transfer to the hungry the rustics 3 meal; 3 it has no 
grace given it to remove any sense of suffering; but it supplies 
with endurance those who are suffering, feeling, grieving." But 
this spiritual power, this ability to endure, be it noted., is given 
because of the presence of material afflictions or tortures, it is 
not a defence against the unseen powers of evil, as Origen would 
interpret. And again, according to Tertullian, "Is it any wonder 
if prayer knows how to extort the rains 4 of heaven, which was 
once able to procure its fires?" 5 And this is natural rain, not "the 
rain of the soul," 6 which according to Origen is the fulfilment 
of which the rain procured by the prayer of Elijah is the type. 
Further, in conclusion, among the many benefits resulting from 
Christian prayer Tertullian reckons many which concern the 
body: prayer is able "to recall the souls of the departed from the 
very path of death, to renew the weak, to heal the sick, to purge 
them that are possessed of devils, to open prison bars, to loose 
the bonds of the innocent." 

Finally, it is impossible to avoid contrasting the general out- 
look of Tertullian upon Christianity and the particular subject 
of prayer with that of Origen. For Tertullian Christianity is a 
spiritual law and discipline with its prescribed duties. When we 
pray, we obey an order (praeceptum) of God, and when we call 
him Father we acknowledge his authority (potestas) . 7 It is not 
indeed that Tertullian hankers after Judaism. That indeed has 
passed away: the gospel is the fulfiller 8 of the whole ancient 
system. But in its place have come the commandments of God 
in Christ, including particularly his command concerning 
prayer and its prescribed form; and our mother the Church 
(deduced by Tertullian as a natural consequent of Father and 
Son) 9 also prescribes services and forms and customs. The whole 
setting of tine treatise is placed in the sphere of spiritual duty. 
The fife of the household the Church is conceived after the 

2 Origen also refers to the "whistling dewy wind" (Dan. 3:49, 50, LXX), 
which tempered the fire for the Three Holy Children. 

3 Bel and the Dragon 33, 

* A reference to the story (Apologeticus, V; Eusebius, H.E., V, 5) of the 
"Thundering Legion, " when Christians in the army of Marcus Aurelius 
by means of prayer brought down a refreshing shower upon soldiers who 
were in danger of perishing by thirst. 

5 II Kings 1:10 ff. XIII, 5. * Ch, II. 

8 Ch. L 9 Ch. IL 



ON PRAYER 229 

manner of domestic life in a Roman household, where the 
patria potestas was a living reality, setting a rule and standard for 
all its members. In that setting there is little room or desire to 
dwell upon matters which might weaken the sense of prescribed 
duty, such as differences in the text of Holy Scripture, criticism 
and interpretation of the Bible, possible objections, alternative 
renderings, speculations, and insoluble problems. With all of 
these, on the contrary, Origen is pre-occupied. It is part of his 
conception of Christianity, which is, to apprehend the truth of 
Christ and to feed upon his teachings. If Tertullian's watch- 
word is "duty," Origen's is "understanding," though not simply 
understanding that is intellectual but including also mystical 
apprehension and self-devotion which issues in a Christian way 
of life. 

Thus in less than two hundred years profound differences of 
outlook had manifested themselves in Christianity. Carthage 
and Alexandria are in the same continent. About a thousand 
miles of coastline separate them one from the other. But Ter- 
tullian and Origen inhabit a different world spiritually and 
intellectually a difference that may be expressed in various 
ways, as for example by saying that the one was Latin, the other 
Greek, the one authoritative, the other speculative, the one ex- 
clusive, the other comprehensive, the one reactionary, the other 
liberal. "Quid Athenis et Hierosolymis?" 10 cries Tertullian. 
"What have Athens and Jerusalem in common?" And he pro- 
ceeds, "Away with those who put forward a Stoic, a Platonic, a 
dialectic sort of Christianity! We have no need for curious 
speculation, once we have accepted Christ Jesus, nor for inquiry 
after receiving the gospel. Once we believe, we desire no further 
belief. For our belief is this, that there is nothing which we 
ought to believe besides." 

It is better frankly to acknowledge that these two extreme 
types of Christianity emerged early in its history, and have con- 
tinued ever since, than to attempt a formal reconciliation be- 
tween them. If we will allow room for them both in a Catholic 
Church, we shall serve the Church better than by seeking for 
them a common denominator. Perhaps it is necessary to say this 
today: for we live at a time when "pattern" has become a 
"blessed" word in theology. By using it, some lull themselves 
into the comfortable frame of mind which sees a uniformity in 
Christian faith and practice which does not in fact exist. "Pat- 
tern" is a tendentious., a misleading, but nevertheless for many, 
10 De Prescription^) 7. 



230 ORIGEN 

a soporific word. It persuades those who use it into a totalitarian 
kind of belief that all happens "according to plan." In com- 
paring these two treatises of Tertullian and Origen, the present 
writer makes no attempt to establish a common "pattern" be- 
tween them. He has pointed out a few similarities of thought 
and treatment. But the two works, as well as the two authors, 
differ toto caelo. They exhibit, not a "pattern," but the "much 
variegated wisdom of God." 11 

TEXT, TRANSMISSION, MANUSCRIPTS, AND EDITIONS , 

That the treatise On Prayer has come down to us at all must 
be regarded as a fortunate circumstance. As we have seen, 12 
certain passages in the work were accounted heretical, and this 
in turn doubtless affected its transmission from early times, 
quite apart from the general destruction of Origen's manu- 
scripts as a result of the controversies of which he was the storm 
centre. In fact, we are ultimately dependent for the Greek text 
upon a single MS. which has had a precarious history and might 
well have never survived its chequered fortunes. And there is 
no Latin translation of the De Orations as there is of so many of 
Origen's other works. There are indeed few references to the 
treatise in the extant literature of the early Church- The 
Apologia pro Origene, written conjointly by Pamphilus and Euse- 
bius c. 308, "because of the fault-finders," 13 mentions it as ex- 
tant. It is true that we possess this Apology only in the Latin 
translation of Rufinus (and that, too, of the first book only), but 
there is no reason, but rather the contrary, why Rufinus should 
have included a reference to the book if he did not find it in the 
original. This translation was made in 398. The reference is as 
follows: 14 "Denique in tarn multis et tarn diversis eius libris 
nusquam omnino invenitur ab eo liber proprie de anima con- 
scriptus, sicut habet vel de Martyrio, vel de Oratione, vel de 
Resurrectione." 15 There is no reference to the De Oratione in the 
list of Origen's works to be found in Jerome, Ep., XXXIII, ad 
Paulam. 16 But Jerome is here chiefly concerned to enumerate 
Origen's labours in Biblical exegesis: "qui tanto in sanctamm 
scriptarum commentariis sudore laboravit, ut iuste adamantis 
nomen acceperit." Therefore his omission to mention the treat- 
ise is not conclusive of his ignorance of its existence; in fact, he 
does not mention the Contra Celsum either. Nor does it follow that 

n Eph. 3:10. 12 See pp. 187 ff. " Eusebius, H.K, VI, 33:4. 

14 Ch. 8. 15 Routh, Reliquiae Sacrae, IV, 379. ^ C.V., LIV, 253 ff. 



ON PRAYER 231 

Gregory and Basil did not know the De Oratione because they 
did not include a passage from it in the Philocalia. This work 
mainly consists of passages which exemplify Origen's power of 
resolving difficult questions arising out of the Holy Scriptures. 17 

The synodical letter of Theophilus of Alexandria, a bitter 
opponent of Origen, "ad Palestinos et ad Cyprios episcopos 
missa" (c. 400) and translated by Jerome, 18 mentions the De 
Oratione expressly when it includes among the errors of Origen 
what he wrote about praying to the Father only: "cum legeretur 
... in alio libro, qui e de oratione' scribitur: non debemus orare 
filium, sed solum patrem, nee patrem cum filio, obturavimus 
aures nostras et tarn Origenem quam discipulos eius consona 
voce damnavimus, ne et modicum fermentum totam massam 
corrumperet." Again, in another, a paschal, letter, also 
translated by Jerome, 19 Theophilus attacks at greater length 
the same point in Origen's teaching. He places Origen on a 
level, in this respect, with Pharaoh, who said, "I know not the 
Lord. 5520 "Nee est aliud dicere 'nescio Dominum 5 quam hoc, 
quod dicit Origenes, c non est orandus films.'" Inasmuch as 
Christ is the Son of God it follows as a right and proper conse- 
quence that he is to be invoked, and prayer is to be made to 
him, as indeed we are taught in the Scriptures to do (Acts 7:60; 
Phil. 2:10). The first of these quotations is an unhappy one 
from the point of view of Theophilus 's criticism, as Origen ex- 
pressly quotes these words of Stephen ("Lord, lay not this sin to 
their charge") as an example of intercession (which he dis- 
tinguishes from prayer in the full sense of the term) being rightly 
made to the Son. 21 Origen., says Theophilus, does not believe in 
the Deity of the Son: "itaque nee deum credit Origenes filium 
dei, quern non putat adorandum." The name of divinity that 
he gives him is only an empty name. He thinks that he under- 
stands the meaning of the Scriptures, but he does not hear what 
Moses says against him. "Whosoever curseth God shall bear his 
sin; he that nameth the name of the Lord shall surely die; the 
whole congregation shall stone him." 22 

Acquaintance with the De Oration* has been claimed for Am- 
brose, in virtue of certain passages in the De Sacramentis 23 and 
De Fide; 24 see note on XXVII, 9. There are marked differences, 
however, between Ambrose and Origen. 



1? ypa.if)iK&v ^rfrr^Larwv Kal 

is Jerome, />., XCII (C.V., LV, 148, 149). 

i? Ibid. (Ep., XCVI), 172 ff. 20 EX. 5:2. 21 See p. 269. 

22 Lev. 24:15, 1 6. 23 V, 24, VI, 22. 2 4 III, 137. 



232 ORIGEN 

The writings and pronouncements of the Emperor Justinian 
in the sixth century afford evidence of his knowledge of the De 
Oratione, in so far as he finds in it the idea that the resurrection 
body is spherical. In his Epistle to Mennas, Patriarch of Con- 
stantinople, he says: 25 "For he [sc. Origen] says that in the 
resurrection men's bodies are raised spherical. O! the folly and 
stupidity of this crazy fellow, this expounder of Greek opinions! 
Darkened in his understanding, and eager to mix up myths 
with the Christian faith, he aimed at casting insult upon the 
very hope and salvation of Christians, that is, the resurrection 
promised to us, not even reverencing the resurrection of the 
Lord . . . For if, as Origen madly supposes, the body of the 
Lord was spherical, how was he able to show the piercings of his 
hands and feet, or the wound in his side? Or how could he eat, 
or be recognized at all by his disciples? And how also could the 
bodies of the saints, which were raised after the Lord's resurrection 
and seen in the holy city, have been known by others, if they were 
really in a form different from that which they had in life?" 

The Epistle to Mennas concludes with a series often anathemas 
against Origen's teachings, of which the following is the fifth: 26 
"If anyone says or holds that at the resurrection men's bodies 
are raised spherical, and does not acknowledge that we are 
raised upright, let him be anathema." A similar condemnation 
is to be found in the tenth of the Fifteen Anathemas against 
Origen, discovered by Peter Lambeck, the Librarian of Vienna, 
towards the end of the seventeenth century, which some hold 
to have been adopted by the Fifth General Council, but others, 
more probably, assign to a "Home Synod," that is, a Synod 
held in 543 at Constantinople of the bishops of the locality. 27 
The translation of this Anathema runs as follows: "If anyone 
shall say that after the resurrection the body of the Lord was 
ethereal and spherical in form, and that such shall be the bodies 
of all after the resurrection; and that after the Lord himself shall 
have rejected his true body and after the others who rise shall 
have rejected theirs, the nature of their bodies shall be an- 
nihilated: let him be anathema." 

On the other hand, Photius 28 refers to an anonymous de- 
fender of Origen. "The counts on which he asserts that he [sc. 
Origen] was falsely accused are fifteen in number, which he 
declares to be mere slanders. ... He is charged with teaching 

2sp.G.,LXXXVI(i), 9 73. 

2 Ib&, 989. 27 Hefele, IV, 2121 ff.; JV.PJV.R, XIV, 316 ffl 

2 Library, I, 1 17, ed. J. H. Freese, 206. 



ON PRAYER 233 

that prayer should not be offered to the Son, and that he is not 
absolutely good. 33 It is probable that this is a reference to the 
teaching of the De Oratione, because although Origen elsewhere 
in his writings 29 says that prayer should be addressed to the 
Father it is only in the present treatise that he enjoins prayer 
in the proper sense of the term to the Father alone 9 that is to 
say, in so many words. 

It is not surprising, therefore, that under this barrage of 
criticism, although it was directed against at the most two 
points in the treatise, its circulation came almost to an end. In 
fact it is preserved for us in a single MS., which if it had been 
lost and it might well have been no trace or fragment or 
copy of the work would now remain. This MS. is now in the 
Library of Trinity College, Cambridge (B.S.io: formerly 
styled "Holmiensis"), 30 known under the symbol T, written on 
paper, of the fourteenth or fifteenth century. Apart from eight 
inconsiderable lacunae near the beginning, it contains the 
whole of the treatise. Bound together with it is another work of 
Origen, his Commentary on Matthew, written in another, 
older hand. 

The scribe of T appears to have been a conscientious person, 
for where the text he was copying was missing or illegible, he 
leaves in every case just so much empty space as seems necessary 
to him, so that he could eventually later on supply the missing 
words from another codex. Lacunae falling at regular intervals 
are found at the beginning of the MS., pointing to the fact that 
in the archetype the first or last lines of a page were partly or 
wholly destroyed, or rendered illegible, by some cause, prob- 
ably damp. It cannot now be determined to what century this 
archetype belonged; but Koetschau 31 argues that not many 
intermediaries lay between it and T, since the text has been 
handed down in comparatively good order. 

T has had an interesting, but precarious, history. When the 
cathedral library of Worms was plundered by soldiers, it was 
purchased from them for a small sum by a person named 
Rumfius, physician to Elizabeth, Queen of the Bohemians. He 
brought it from Germany to The Hague, where it passed from 
his possession to that of the famous scholar Isaac Voss, who in 
turn brought it to Sweden, where it was lodged along with 
other manuscripts in the library at Stockholm. There, some 

29 See pp. 346 ff. 

ao So-called, because it was once lodged in the Library of Holmia (Stock- 
holm) , 31 I, Ixxxvii. 



234 ORIGEN 

twenty years after Voss had acquired it, another scholar. Peter 
Daniel Huet, came across it in the Library and made a copy 
of it in the year 1652. Subsequently Voss allowed the use of the 
MS. to Herbert Thorndike (1598-1672), fellow of Trinity 
College, who was contemplating an edition of the complete 
works of Origen. 32 It remained in Thorndike' s possession. 
Later on he bequeathed it to the Library of his College* 

The transcript made by Huet is known as Cod. Parisin. 
Suppl. Gr. Nr. 534. 

The concluding part of the treatise On Prayer (from XXXI, i 
to XXXIII, 3) has been separately handed down in another MS. 
(Cod. Parisin, Gr. Nr. 1788, Colbert 3607, cited as "Col"), 
written, according to a subscription written in Greek, by a 
monk named Gennadius, in the year 1440. A note, written in 
a hand of the fifteenth century, gives the following facts con- 
cerning the history and ownership of the codex (which is of a 
miscellaneous character, containing several works) of which 
this fragment forms part, namely, that it came originally from 
Constantinople, having been purchased, after the capture of 
that city, by a certain man named Luke Zonaras, who was from 
"the wholly wretched and miserable island of Lesbos." It re- 
mained in his possession until the taking of this island (i.e., in 
the year 1462), when it passed into the hands of one Sophianus 
of Phocia, 33 and then finally into those of Sophianus the writer 
of the note. The first editor to use this fragment was Delarue 
(see below), who believed that it was a valuable help in the 
restoration of that part of the text of the treatise which it con- 
tains. But Koetschau 34 has shown that the most of the variants 
of Col from T are scribal errors and omissions, due to negligence 
or wilful alteration, and that Col has never more to offer, but 
in numerous passages less, than T, and that in fact in T we see 
the text from which Col is derived. This view is confirmed by 
the fact that T and Col have certain mis-readings in common. 
"Further, the scribe of Col behaves throughout in so incon- 
sistent and arbitrary a manner, that one need not, in order to 
expose his many faults, interpose an intermediary between T 
and Col." Since, then, T and Col are not independent, and 

32 T. A. Lacey in his Herbert Thorndike^ pp. 25 ff. mentions many Greek and 
Latin Fathers whom Thorndike cites, but Origen is not among them. But 
B* F. Westcott (D.C.B., IV, 141) notes that Thorndike had indeed con- 
templated an edition of Origen's works, but had abandoned the project, 
because inter alia he had learned of Huet's intention to carry out a similar 
task* 33 In Asia Minor. ^ 4 I, Ixxxv. 



ON PRAYER 235 

since Col, as we have seen, originally came from Constantinople., 
it is not unlikely that T also had its habitat there, and hence 
also in all likelihood its place of origin. Perhaps the passage I 
quoted earlier 35 in this section from Photius may be significant 
in this connection. If in Constantinople of the ninth century 
there were known to be apologists of Origen's treatise, it is 
likely enough that a MS. containing it would escape the harsher 
fate that fell upon its fellows in other parts of the world. 

The following are the editions of this treatise that have been 
published up till now. 

1. Editio Princeps. Printed and published in Oxford in the 
year 1682. The editor is anonymous. In his Praefatio he says that 
he has given a transcript (apographum) of that manuscript 
"which is now preserved at Cambridge in the Library of the 
College of the holy Trinity/' of whose existence Voss had made 
him aware. This codex, he remarks, is "non admodum feliciter 
descriptus," it contains considerable lacunae, and is so full of 
abbreviations that it required "an interpreter rather than a 
reader" to transcribe it. A Latin translation is added, in which 
the editor acknowledges the help he had received from Gale, 36 
who not merely translated the Greek text supplied him by the 
editor, but also reviewed suspected passages by reference to T: 
so that the Latin translation, as corrected by Gale, is often a 
substantial improvement. 

2. Next in order of time is the edition of the Treatise pub- 
lished at Basle by J. R. Wetstein, the elder, in 1694. The im- 
provement in this edition over its predecessor is mainly due to 
the fact that Gale's recension of Codex T is utilized. The 
exemplar of the Oxford edition used by Wetstein is now in the 
Library of Gottingen University. It contains in the margin 
Gale's collation of each passage. But it will be seen from what 
follows that much further work had yet to be done on the text. 
Indeed the "Master of a College in Cambridge," referred to in 
the following paragraph, scathingly speaks of "the Basil 
Edition" as "being a mere repetition of the Oxford, bating a 
few alterations of little moment, some for the better, some for 
the worse." 

3. First in order of merit among early editions is that of 
William Reading (London, 1728). This edition is dedicated to 
Baron Roger Meredith, who is described as ornatissimus vir. Its 
special value lies in the fact that Reading made use of a fresh 
collation of T and Notes by an anonymous scholar in fact, a 
35 P. 232. 3* Le. ? Thorns Gale, Dean of York (c. 1635-1702). 



236 ORIGEN 

new edition of the book which were sent to Reading by "the 
Master of a College in Cambridge," whom Reading describes 
in his Preface as vir singularis eruditionis, animique in me bene- 
volentissimi, with permission to publish them, if he thought fit, 
without however disclosing the name of the donor. The reason 
for all this secrecy is not apparent. In any case, the work of the 
anonymous scholar, included in this edition, was the most valu- 
able contribution to the criticism of the De Oratione that had so 
far been made. Not only did he collate Codex T more systematic- 
ally and thoroughly than either of his two predecessors, but by 
his notes, which are the result of genuine scholarship and of 
knowledge in particular of the writings of Origen, he contri- 
buted, even more than Richard Bentley did, to the purifying and 
emendation of the text. 

4. Charles Delarue in his edition of Origen's Works (Vol. I, 
pp. 196-272, Paris, 1733) reproduced the text of Wetstein's 
edition, but also utilized an admittedly insufficient collation 
of Codex T, which "John Walker, an English presbyter/' had 
made for him. He also examined the fragment contained in 
Codex Paris, no. 1788 ("col"). He added a Latin translation, 
made by Claudius Fleury for Huet. But a more momentous 
addition appeared in the footnotes, which give the ingenious, 
though often audacious, conjectural emendations of Richard 
Bentley. 

5. Charles Henry Edward Lommatzch, who published a 
recension of the work of Delarue in twenty-five volumes, gives 
the text of the De Oratione in Vol. XVIII, pp. 82-297 (Berlin, 
1844). This differs only in a few places in the text from that of 
Delarue; and whereas Delarue had printed the critical notes of 
the anonymous scholar at the end of his first volume, Lom- 
matzch adds these to each respective passage of the text. 

6. The edition used in preparing this translation is that of 
Paul Koetschau (Leipzig, 1899) ^ the Berlin corpus of the 
Fathers entitled Die griechischen christlichen Schriftsteller der ersten 
drei Jahrhunderte. The Introduction to "Die Schrift von Gebet" 
is in Vol. I of Origen's Works, pp. Ixxv-xcii, the text in Vol. II, 
pp. 297-403. This edition, which is a worthy contribution to 
modern scholarship and to the series in which it is included, is 
based on a new collation of Codex T made by C. J. Bellairs 
Gaskoin. It is indispensable to a critical study of the treatise. 
Koetschau has been careful to give as accurately as possible the 
number of letters or lines to be estimated for each of the lacunae 
in T. His apparatus criticus gives full information concerning not 



ON PRAYER 237 

only variants but also emendations of the Anonymous, Bentley, 
and others. He says, however, that "from the text in T, I have 
departed only seldom and for compelling reasons." 37 From this 
point of view it is not surprising that Koetschau often, and to 
the mind of the present writer too frequently, dismisses proposed 
emendations with the terse formula "ohne Grund." This, how- 
ever, does not seriously impair the value of Koetschau's text, of 
which every serious student of the De Oratione must be conscious. 
I must personally acknowledge my own indebtedness to his 
edition, not only throughout this book, but especially in writing 
this section of the Introduction and the section which deals 
with the occasion of the treatise. Koetschau stands out among 
those who in the last three hundred years have laboured to 
make this work of Origen accessible in scholarly form. It 
appears here in an English translation, which, it is hoped, will 
not be found entirely inadequate. But the translator must 
conclude, as Origen himself does, by acknowledging the diffi- 
culty of the task as a ground for asking the indulgence of the 
reader. 

37 I, XC. 



On Prayer 

THE TEXT 

Introduction 
Chapters I and II 

I, i. Inasmuch as the greatest themes surpass man's under- 
standing, and transcend exceedingly our perishable nature, it is 
impossible for the reason of the race of mortals to grasp them; 
nevertheless this becomes possible by the will of God, in the 
abundant and immeasurable grace of God that is poured forth 
by him upon men, through Jesus Christ, who ministers unto us 
his unsurpassable grace, and through his fellow-worker the 
Spirit. Certainly, it is impossible for human nature to acquire 
that wisdom by which "all things" have been "established" 1 
(for, according to David, God "made all things in wisdom" 2 ). 
What is impossible, however, becomes possible through our 
Lord Jesus Christ, who "was made unto us wisdom from God, 
and righteousness and sanctification and redemption/' 3 "For 
what man shall know the counsel of God? Or who shall con- 
ceive what the Lord willeth?" Because "the thoughts of mortals 
are timorous, and our devices are prone to fail. For a corruptible 
body weigheth down the soul, and the earthy frame lieth heavy 
on a mind that is full of cares. And hardly do we divine the 
things that are on earth. But the things that are in the heavens, 
who ever yet traced out?" 4 Nevertheless, this impossibility 
becomes possible by "the exceeding grace of God." 5 For he who 
"was caught up" into "the third heaven" 6 "traced out" 7 per- 
chance the things in the three heavens, because he had "heard 
unspeakable words, which it is not lawful for a man to utter." 8 
But who can say that it is possible for "the mind of the Lord" 

i Gf. Heb. 3:4. 2 p s . 104:24. 3 I Cor. 1:30. 

4 Wisdom of Solomon 9:13-16. 5 n Cor. 9:14. 

e II Cor. 12:2. 7 Wisdom of Solomon 9:16. 

s II Cor. 12-4. 

238 



ON PRAYER 239 

to be "known" 9 by man? Nevertheless, even this God bestows 
through Christ, 10 [who says, "Ye are my friends, if you do the 
things which I command you. No longer do I call you servants; 
for the servant knoweth not what his lord doeth: but I have 
called you friends; for all things that I have heard from my 
Father I^have made known unto you." 11 They who hear the 
gospel rejoice] when it teaches them the will of their Lord, no 
longer willing to be Lord, but changing to be a friend for those 
to whom he was formerly Lord. Nevertheless, "since none 
among men knoweth the things of a man, save the spirit of the 
man, which is in him, even so the things of God none knoweth, 
save the Spirit of God." 1 * g ut jf none knoweth the things of 
God, save the Spirit of God," it is impossible for man to "know 
the things of God." Consider also, however, how it becomes 
possible. "But we," he says, "received not the spirit of the 
world, but the spirit which is of God; that we might know the 
things that are freely given to us by God. Which things also we 
speak, not in words which man's wisdom teacheth, but which 
the Spirit teacheth." 13 

II, i. Probably, however, most godly and laborious Am- 
brose, and most modest and brave Tatiana (for whom, it can be 
said/'it" has "ceased to be after the manner of women," as "it" 
had "ceased to be with Sarah" 14 ), you are somewhat at a loss 
why, when the subject before us is prayer, we should begin by 
speaking of the things which though impossible for men yet 
become possible by the grace of God. One of these impossible 
things, having regard to our weakness, is, I believe, to give a 
clear, exact and appropriate account of the whole matter of 
prayer, how we ought to pray, what things we ought to say to 
God in prayer, and what times are more suitable than others 
for prayer 15 . . . [we know that Paul] who because of "the ex- 
ceeding greatness of the revelations" took care "lest any man 
should account of him "above that which he seeth" him "to 
be, or heareth from" 16 him, confessed that he did "not know" 
how "to pray as" he "ought" 17 ; for as concerning what ought 

9 Cf. Rom. 11:34; I Cor. 2:16 (Isa. 40:13). 

10 A lacuna of three and a half lines occurs here in the MS. T, which Koet- 
schau conjecturally fills up as above. 

11 John 15:14, 15. 12 I Cor. 2:11. 
13 I Cor. 2:12, 13. u Gen. 18:11. 

15 A lacuna of four and one-fifth lines (about 300 letters) occurs here in the 
MS. Doubtless at this point Origen referred to the need for divine grace 
to help him in his task, as we find him doing lower down in this chapter 
(sect. 6). is II Con 12:7, 6, " Rom. 8:26. 



240 ORIGEN 

to be prayed for, he says, "we know not as we ought." So it is 
necessary not only to pray, but also to pray "as we ought/' and 
to pray for what we ought. For it is not enough that we should 
be able to pray for what we ought, unless in addition we possess 
the "as we ought." And what does the "as we ought" profit us, 
if we do not know how to pray for what we ought? 

2. Now, of these two things the one, that is to say, "what we 
ought," is concerned with the words of prayer; the other, "as 
we ought," with the condition of him who is praying. Examples 
of "what we ought" are: "Ask for the great things, and the little 
things shall be added unto you" 18 ; and "Ask for the heavenly 
things and the earthly things 19 shall be added unto you" 20 ; and 
"Pray for them that despitefully use you" 21 ; and "Pray ye 
therefore the Lord of the harvest, that he send forth labourers 
into his harvest" 22 ; and "Pray that ye enter not into tempta- 
tion" 23 ; and "Pray ye that your flight be not in the winter, 
neither on a sabbath" 24 and "And in praying use not vain 
repetitions" 25 ; and any other sayings like these. An example of 
"as we ought" is: "I desire therefore that the men pray in every 
place, lifting up holy hands, without wrath and disputing. In 
like manner also that women adorn themselves in modest 
apparel, with shamefastness and sobriety, not with braided 
hair, or gold, or pearls, or costly raiment; but (which becometh 
women professing godliness) through good works." 26 Instruc- 
tion on "as we ought" is also to be found in the passage: "If 
therefore thou art offering thy gift at the altar, and there re- 
memberest that thy brother hath aught against thee, leave there 
thy gift before the altar, and go thy way, first be reconciled to 
thy brother, and then come and offer thy gift." 27 For what 
greater gift can a reasonable creature 28 present to God than a 
sweet-savoured 28 * word of prayer, offered by one whose con- 
science is void of the foul savour that comes from sin? Further 
instruction on "as we ought" is: "Defraud ye not one the other, 
except it be by consent for a season, that ye may give yourselves 
unto prayer, and may be together again, that Satan rejoice not 
over you 29 because of your incontinency." 30 From this it follows 

is See note. Of. John 3:12. 20 Gf. Matt, 6:33; Luke 12:31. 

21 Luke 6:28. 22 Matt, 9:38; Luke 10:2. 

23 Luke 22:40 (Matt. 26:415 Mark 14:38). 

24 Matt. 24:20 (Mark 13:18). 25 Matt. 6:7. 

26 I Tim. 2:8-10. 27 Matt. 5:23, 24. 

28 Gf. Rom. 12:1. 28* cf. Eph. 5:2; Phil. 4:18. 

29 The usual reading is "tempt you not": see note. 

30 I Cor. 7:5. 



ON PRAYER 241 

that "as we ought" is hindered unless in the performance of the 
ineffable mysteries of marriage due regard is paid to gravity, 
infrequency and absence of passion: for the "consent" here 
mentioned does away with the disorder of passion, removes 
"incontinency," and hinders the joy that Satan takes in an- 
other's ill. In addition to these passages, instruction on "as we 
ought" is to be found in the saying: "If we stand praying, for- 
give, if ye have aught against anyone." 31 Also the passage in 
Paul, "Every man praying or prophesying, having his head 
covered, dishonoured! his head. But every woman praying or 
prophesying with her head unveiled dishonoured! her head," 32 
is indicative of "as we ought." 

3. Paul knew all these passages, and could quote a great 
many more besides from the Law and the Prophets and from 
their fulfilment, 33 the Gospel, and give a varied exposition of 
each of them; nevertheless it is out of a true as well as a modest 
disposition that he says (for in spite of all this knowledge he saw 
how far off he was from knowing what we ought to pray for "as 
we ought"): "As touching what we ought to pray for, we 
know not as we ought." 34 And, in addition to this saying, he also 
indicates the means whereby what is lacking is supplied for the 
man who though ignorant renders himself worthy to have what 
is lacking in himself supplied: for he says, "The Spirit himself 
maketh intercession" to God "with groanings which cannot be 
uttered; and he that searcheth the hearts knoweth what is the 
mind of the Spirit, because he maketh intercession for the saints 
according to the will of God." 35 Now "the Spirit" who "cries" 
in "the hearts" of the blessed ones, "Abba, Father," 36 knowing 
full well the groanings "in this tabernacle," 37 that they are cap- 
able of weighing down those who have fallen or transgressed, 
"maketh intercession" to God "with groanings which cannot be 
uttered," 38 and out of his great kindness and sympathy receives 
our groanings. And when, in accordance with the wisdom that is 
in him, he sees "our soul humbled to the dust" 39 and confined 
in "the body of humiliation," 40 "he maketh intercession" to God, 
using no ordinary "groanings," but certain "which cannot be 
uttered," which appertain to those "unspeakable words, which 
it is not" possible "for a man to utter." 41 In very truth, this 
Spirit, not content simply to intercede with God, intensifies the 

3i Mark 1 1 :25: see note. 32 I Ck> r . x i : 4j 5 . 33 Of. Matt. 5: 1 7. 

34 Rom. 8:26. 35 Rom. 8:26, 27. 36 Gal. 4:6. 

37 II Cor. 5:4. 38 Rom. 8:26. 39 PS. 44:25. 

40 Phil. 3:21. 41 II Cor. 12:4. 
A.C. 1 6 



242 ORIGEN 

intercession and "intercedes exceedingly*" 42 I imagine that he 
does this for those who are conquering exceedingly, such as 
Paul was when he says, "Nay, in all these things we conquer 
exceedingly." 43 Probably, he merely "intercedes" for those who, 
on the one hand, are not so great as "to conquer exceedingly/ 5 
and yet, on the other, are not such as to be conquered, but 
rather are conquering. 

4. Related to the text "we know not what" we ought "to 
pray for as we ought; but the Spirit intercedes exceedingly" to 
God "with groanings which cannot be uttered," 44 is the text: 
"I will pray with the spirit, and I will pray with the under- 
standing also: I will sing with the spirit, and I will sing with the 
understanding also." 45 For neither can our understanding pray, 
unless previously the Spirit prays, hearkening 46 as it were to it, 
nor likewise can it sing and hymn the Father in Christ with 
rhythm, melody, measure and harmony, unless the Spirit, who 
"searcheth all things, yea, the deep things of God," 47 first 
praise and hymn him, whose "deep things" he has "searched/* 
and, so far as he is able, 48 apprehended. 

"One of the disciples" of Jesus (being conscious in himself, 
as I suppose, of human weakness in its ignorance concerning 
how one ought to pray, and recognizing this especially when he 
heard the wise and great words uttered by the Saviour in prayer 
to his Father), "when" the Lord "ceased" praying, said: "Lord, 
teach us to pray, even as John also taught his disciples." The 
following is the full context of the saying: "And it came to pass, 
as he was praying in a certain place, that when he ceased, one 
of his disciples said unto him, Lord, teach us to pray, even as 
John also taught his disciples" 49 to pray. 50 ... Is it then that a 
man, brought up in the instruction of the Law and in hearing 
the words of the Prophets, and a constant frequenter of the 
synagogues, did not know how to pray at all, until he saw the 
Lord praying "in a certain place"? It would be absurd to assert 
this. Undoubtedly he was accustomed to pray in the Jewish 
fashion; but he saw that he needed greater knowledge in the 
matter of prayer. Moreover, what did "John teach his disciples" 
concerning prayer, as they came "unto him" to be "baptized" 

42 Rom. 8:26: Origen here makes the point that Paul does not simply say 
mryxdvt (as in v. 27), but vTTpVTvyx<*v&+ The English Bible versions do 
not attempt to reproduce this distinction, 43 Rom. 8:37. 

44 Rom. 8:26. 45 I Cor. 14:15. 46 See note, 

47 I Cor. 2:10. 48 Sec no te. 49 Luke 11:1. 

so A lacuna of two and a half lines occurs here in the MS., probably con- 
taining a citation of Matt. 3:5, 6. 



ON PRAYER 243 

from "Jerusalem, and all Judaea, and the region round about/' 51 
unless it was that, being "much more than a prophet," 52 he 
saw certain things concerning prayer, which, I dare say, he 
delivered secretly, not to all those who were being baptized, but 
to those who were under instruction as disciples for baptism? 

5. Such prayers, being truly spiritual (for the Spirit prays in 
the hearts of the saints), have been recorded, and they are filled 
with unutterable and marvellous teachings. An example, in the 
First Book of the Kingdoms, is the prayer of Hannah, 53 which 
is given in part (for the whole prayer, "when she continued 
praying before the Lord, speaking in her heart," has not been 
written down). 54 In the Psalms, the sixteenth Psalm is entitled, 
"A Prayer of David," and the eighty-ninth, "A Prayer of Moses, 
the man of God," and the one hundred and first, "A Prayer of 
the poor man, when he is uncared for, and pours forth his 
petition before the Lord." 55 Such prayers, since they were 
truly prayers which came into being and were spoken by the 
Spirit, are filled with the teachings of the wisdom of God; so 
that one may say of the things that they set forth: "Who is wise, 
and he shall understand these" prayers? "and prudent, and he 
shall know" them? 56 

6. Since, therefore, to treat of prayer is so weighty a task that 
it requires the illumination of the Father for this very thing, and 
the teaching of his first begotten Word, and the operation of the 
Spirit that we may understand and speak worthily of so weighty 
a matter, I pray as a man (for I do not hold that I am able of 
my own self to treat of prayer) before I begin to speak on the 
subject of prayer, that the Holy Spirit may be vouchsafed to me, 
so that a very full and spiritual word may be bestowed upon 
me, and the prayers recorded in the Gospels made plain. Let 
us now then begin the subject of prayer. 

Discussion on Prayer in General 

CHAPTERS III TO XVII 
The words "Euche" and "Proseuche" (Chapters III and IV) 

III, i. The word "prayer" (euche] occurs for the first time, 
so far as my observation goes, when "Jacob," flying from the 

si Matt. 3:5, 6. 52 Matt. 11:9. 53 1 Sam. 1:11-13. 

54 So Koetschau emends the text of T. 

55 These Psalms are numbered in the English Bible 17, 90, and 102, 
respectively. 56 Hos, 14:9. 



244 ORIGEN 

wrath of his "brother Esau 5 departed into Mesopotamia 5 ' in 
accordance with the counsel of Isaac and Rebecca. 57 The pas- 
sage runs as follows: "And Jacob prayed a prayer, saying, if 
God the Lord will be with me, and will keep me in this way 
that I go, and will give me bread to eat, and raiment to put on, 
and will bring me back again in safety to my father's house, 
then shall the Lord be unto me for God. And this stone, which 
I have set up for a pillar, shall be unto me God's house: and of 
all that thou shalt give me, I will surely give the tenth unto 
thee."58 . . .59 

2. Here we should note that the word "prayer" (euche), which 
often has a different meaning from proseuche., is used of a person 
who promises in prayer to do this or that, if so be that he obtains 
these things from God. But the term is also employed in its 
customary usage: 'as, for example, we find it so used after the 
plague of frogs, the second in order of the ten. 60 . . . "Pharaoh 
called for Moses and Aaron, and said, Pray the Lord for me, 
and let him take away the frogs from me and my people; and I 
will let the people go, that they may sacrifice to the Lord." 61 
And if anyone finds it hard to believe, because the expression 
"pray" is Pharaoh's, that it has the usual sense, as derived from 
"prayer," in addition to the sense previously mentioned, he 
should note the passage which follows: "And Moses said unto 
Pharaoh, Appoint unto me when I shall pray for thee and for 
thy servants and for thy people, that the frogs be destroyed from 
thee and from thy people and out of thy houses, and remain in 
the river only." 62 

3. Observe that in the case of "the lice," the third plague, 
neither does Pharaoh request a prayer to be made, nor does 
Moses pray. 63 But in the case of "the swarm of flies," 64 the fourth, 
he says, "Pray therefore for me to the Lord"; on which occa- 
sion "Moses said, I will go out from thee and I will pray unto 
God, and the swarm of flies will depart from Pharaoh and his 
servants and his people, tomorrow." 65 And a little further down, 

57 Qf. Gen, 27:41-45. 

58 Gen. 28:20-22. 

59 A lacuna of two lines occurs here in T, which perhaps contained another 
example from the Scriptures of "prayer." 

60 A ^lacuna of two lines occurs here in T 3 which Koetschau supplies after 
this manner: "when Pharaoh commanded Moses and Aaron to pray to 
the Lord for him, that he should take away from him and his people 
the frogs which covered everything. The passage is as follows:" 

Ex. 8:8. 62 E X . 8:9. 63 Ex. 8:16-19. 

* Ex. 8:20-32. 65 EX. 8:25, 28 (LXX). 



ON PRAYER 245 

"And Moses went out from Pharaoh, and prayed unto God." 66 
And again, while at the fifth and sixth plagues 67 neither did 
Pharaoh request a prayer to be made nor did Moses pray, at 
the seventh "Pharaoh sent, and called for Moses and Aaron, 
and said unto them, I have sinned this time: the Lord is 
righteous, and I and my people are wicked. Pray therefore unto 
the Lord, and let there be an end to voices of God and hail 
and fire." 68 And a little lower down, "Moses went out of the 
city from Pharaoh, and spread abroad his hands unto the 
Lord: and the voices ended." 69 Why it is not said, "And he 
prayed," as on the former occasions, but "he spread abroad his 
hands unto the Lord," must be considered more suitably at 
another time. Also, at the eighth plague Pharaoh says, "And 
pray unto the Lord your God, and let him take away from 
me this death. And Moses went out from Pharaoh and prayed 
unto God." ^ 

4. We have said that the word euche is often used not in the 
accustomed manner, as for example with reference to Jacob. 71 
Also, in Leviticus, "The Lord spake unto Moses, saying. 
Speak to the children of Israel, and thou shalt say unto them. 
Whosoever shall vow a vow, as being an estimation of his soul 
to the Lord, the estimation of the male, from twenty years 
old to sixty years old, even his estimation shall be fifty shekels of 
silver by holy weight." 72 And in Numbers, "And the Lord 
spake unto Moses, saying, Speak to the children of Israel, and 
thou shalt say unto them, When either man or woman shall 
vow solemnly 73 a vow to make a separation for himself to the 
Lord, he shall be separated from wine and strong drink," 74 
and so forth, with reference to him who is called a Nazirite. 
Then, a little lower down, "And he shall sanctify his head on 
that day in which he was sanctified to the Lord for the days 
of his vow." 75 And again, a little lower down, "This is the law 
of him who hath vowed, in whatsoever day he shall fulfil the 
days of his vow." 76 And again, a little lower down, "And after 
that he who hath vowed shall drink wine. This is the law of him 
who hath vowed, whosoever shall vow to the Lord his gift as 
concerning his vow, apart from whatsoever his hand shall find 

66 Ex. 8:30. 67 EX. 9:1-12. 68 EX. 9:127, 28. 

69 Ex. 9:33. 70 Ex. 10:17, 18. 

?! See III, 2, above: in this section euche and the corresponding verb are 

translated "vow." 72 Lev. 27:1-3. 

73 Lit. "greatly." ?< Num. 6:1-3. 75 Num - 6:I ** I2 (LXX). 

76 Num. 6:13. 



246 ORIGEN 

according to the power of his vow, which he shall vow according 
to the law of separation. 3 ' 77 And at the end of Numbers, "And 
Moses spake unto the heads of the tribes of Israel, saying. This 
is the thing which the Lord hath commanded. When a man 
voweth a vow unto the Lord, or sweareth an oath by a bond, 
or shall make a bond concerning his soul, he shall not cause his 
word to become void; he shall do according to all that pro- 
ceedeth out of his mouth. And if a woman voweth a vow unto 
the Lord, or bindeth herself by a bond, being in her father's 
house, in her youth; and if her father heareth her vows, and her 
bonds wherewith she hath bound her soul, and if her father 
holdeth his peace, all her vows shall stand, and every bond 
wherewith she hath bound her soul shall remain with her." 78 
And subsequently he lays down certain laws concerning such a 
woman. The same meaning is to be found in Proverbs: . . . ["It 
is a snare] to a man rashly to sanctify anything of his own; for 
after he hath vowed cometh repentance" 79 ; and in Ecclesiastes: 
"Better is it that thou shouldest not vow, than that thou 
shouldest vow and not pay" 80 ; and in the Acts of the Apostles: 
"There are with us four men which are under a vow of their 
own act." 81 

IV, i. It has seemed to me not unreasonable to distinguish 
first between the two meanings of the word euche in the Scrip- 
tures, and likewise also of the word proseuche. For indeed this 
word, in addition to its common and customary, frequently 
found, usage, also occurs in the unusual sense to us of euche ^ in 
what is said concerning Hannah in the First Book of the King- 
doms: "And Eli the priest sat upon a seat by the door posts of 
the temple of the Lord. And she was in bitterness of soul, 
and prayed [proseuxato] unto the Lord, and wept sore. And 
she vowed a vow [eucke], and said, O Lord of hosts, if thou 
wilt indeed look on the affliction of thine handmaid, and 
remember me, and not forget thine handmaid, and wilt give 
unto thine handmaid the seed of a man, then I will give him 

77 Num. 6:20, 21. 78 Num. 30:1-4. 

79 Prov. 20:25. Before this quotation there is a lacuna of one and three- 
fifths lines in T, which Koetschau conjecturally fills with two other 
quotations from Proverbs, as follows: "A sacrifice of a peace offering is 
with me; this day do I pay my vows" (7:14); and "A foolish son is the 
shame of his father; unholy are the vows of a hired mistress" (19:13 
(LXX)); and "It is a snare/ 5 etc; 

so Eccl. 5:5. 

*i Acts 21:23: see note for text. 

2 The text of Koetschau is followed here. 



ON PRAYER 247 

unto the Lord as a gift all the days of his life, and there shall no 
razor come upon his head." 83 

2. Here it would not be unconvincing to note the phrases 
"prayed unto the Lord 53 and 'Vowed a vow" and say that, if 
she did the two things, that is to say, ' 'prayed unto the Lord, 
and vowed a vow," perhaps the word "prayed," on the one 
hand, occurs in the sense we usually give to the noun eucke 
while, on the other hand, "she vowed a vow" has the meaning 
of the word as it occurs in Leviticus and Numbers. 84 For "I wiU 
give him unto the Lord as a gift all the days of his life, and 
there shall no razor come upon his head" is not a proseuche in 
the proper sense of the term, but rather that "vow" (euche) such 
as Jephtha vowed in these words: "And Jephtha vowed a vow 
unto the Lord, and said, If thou wilt indeed deliver the 
children of Ammon into mine hand, then it shall be that whoso- 
ever cometh forth of the doors of my house to meet me, when I 
return in peace from the children of Ammon, even he shall be 
the Lord's, and I will offer him up for a burnt offering." 85 

Objections to Prayer (Chapter V) 

V, i. If it is necessary, then after this, to set forth, as you 
have bidden us, the plausible arguments first of those who think 
that nothing is effected by prayers, and therefore affirm that it 
is superfluous to pray, we shall not refuse to do this also accord- 
ing to our ability, employing the term "prayer" now in its 
simpler and more ordinary sense. 86 . . . This opinion is so dis- 
reputable and lacking in distinguished supporters, that prac- 
tically no one can be found among those who admit Providence 
and place God over the universe who rejects prayer. It is the 
tenet either of those who are downright atheists and deny the 
existence of God, or else of those who go as far as to accept the 
name of God but do away with his Providence. I would go 
further and say that the power that works in opposition, 87 
desiring to attach the most iniquitous opinions to the name of 
Christ and to the teaching of the Son of God, has even been 

S3 I Sam. 1:9-11. 

84 Gf. Lev. 27:2; Num. 6:2, 4, 6, 7, 9, 12, 13, 18, 19, 21 (LXX); 30:3-15. 

ssjudg. 11:31. 

86 A lacuna of two lines in T follows, which Koetschau fills up conjecturally 
thus: "For there are some who do not even accept prayer in this sense, 
but rather make mock of those who pray, and desire to do away com- 
pletely with any kind of prayer whatsoever." 

87 Gf. II Thess. 2:4, 9. 



248 ORIGEN 

able to persuade some that they ought not to pray. The cham- 
pions of this opinion are those who completely reject objects of 
sense, and use neither Baptism nor Eucharist, and slanderously 
affirm that when the Scriptures speak of "praying" they do not 
mean this, but teach something with quite a different meaning. 

2. The following are the arguments, conceivably, of those 
who set at naught prayers (that is to say, of those who place 
God over the universe and say that there is a Providence; for 
there is no question now of examining the statements of those 
who reject God or Providence altogether): "God" knows "all 
things before they be," 88 and nothing which happens is known 
to him for the first time when it happens, as if it were not known 
before this. What need is there, then, to offer up a prayer to him 
who before it was prayed knows what we lack? "For the 
heavenly Father knoweth what things" we "have need of be- 
fore" we "ask him." 89 It is reasonable that he who is the Father 
and Creator of the universe, who "loveth all things that are, 
and abhorreth none of the things which" he "hath made," 90 
should dispense what is for the well-being of each one without 
being prayed to; just as a father does, who protects his little 
ones and does not wait upon their requests, either because they 
are unable to ask at all, or because through ignorance they often 
wish to receive things that are clean contrary to their profit and 
advantage. And we human beings are much further off from 
God than mere children are from the mind of their parents. 

3. Now it is probable that the future is not only known before- 
hand to God but also predetermined, and that nothing comes 
to pass which has not been predetermined by him. For ex- 
ample, if one were to pray that the sun should rise, he would be 
regarded as a foolish fellow, for requesting that something 
should happen through his prayer which would happen in any 
case without his prayer. So also a man would be senseless to 
imagine that his prayer caused things to happen which would 
without doubt have taken place had he never prayed. To give 
another example, it would be unsurpassable folly for a man who 
was troubled by the scorching sun at the summer solstice to 
imagine that by his prayer the sun could be shifted back among 
the vernal constellations, so that he might enjoy a temperate 
atmosphere. In like manner, for a man to suppose that by 
prayer he will escape from necessary happenings incidental to 
the human race, would be to surpass every form of melancholy 
madness. 

** Susanna 42. Matt. 6:8. * Wisdom of Solomon 1 1 :24- 



ON PRAYER 249 

4. Moreover, if "the wicked are estranged from the womb," 91 
and the righteous man is "separated from" his "mother's 
womb/' 92 and if, "the children being not yet" even "born, 
neither having done anything good or bad, that the purpose of 
God according to election might stand, not of works, but of him 
that calleth," 93 it is said, "The elder shall serve the younger," 94 
in vain do we pray concerning remission of sins or the reception 
of "the Spirit of might," 95 in order that we may "have might 
for all things, Christ strengthening us." 96 For if we are "sin- 
ners," we "are estranged from the womb" 97 ; but if we were 
"separated from" our "mother's womb," 92 the best things will 
fall to our lot, even though we should not pray. What prayer 
did Jacob offer before he was born, that it should be prophesied 
of him that "he shall prevail" over Esau, and that his brother 
"shall serve" 98 him? What sin did Esau commit, that he should 
be "hated" 99 before he was born? Or why does Moses pray, as 
we find in the eighty-ninth Psalm, if God is his "refuge before 
the mountains" were established "and the earth and the world 
formed"i . . , 2 

5. Moreover, concerning all those that shall be saved it is 
recorded in the [Epistle] to the Ephesians that "the Father 
chose" them "in him, in Christ, before foundation of the world," 
that they "should be holy and without blemish before him, 
having foreordained" them "in love unto adoption as sons 
through Christ unto himself," 3 Either then a man is one of those 
"chosen before the foundation of the world," and it is impossible 
for him to fall from this "election," 4 and therefore there is no 
need for him to pray; or else he has not been "chosen" neither 
"foreordained," and it is in vain for him to pray: even were he 
to pray ten thousand times, he would not be heard. For "whom" 
God "foreknew," them "he also foreordained to be conformed to 
the image" of the glory "of his Son. And whom he foreordained, 
them he also called; and whom he called, them he also justified: 
and whom he justified, them he also glorified." 5 Why does 
Josiah weary himself, or wherefore when he prays does he take 
thought whether or no he shall be heard, 6 when many generations 
previously it was prophesied of him by name, and it was not 

91 Ps. 58:3. 92 Gf. Gal. 1:15. 93 Rom - 9 :ir - 

94 Gen. 25:23 (Rom. 9:12). 95 Isa. 11:2. 

96 Cf. Phil. 4:13. Gf. Ps. 58:3. 

58 Gen. 25:23. " Mai. 1:3 (Rom. 9:13), l Ps. 90:1. 

2 A lacuna of one and three-sevenths lines occurs here in T, in all likelihood 
containing another of these rhetorical questions. 

3 Eph. 1 13-5. 4 Rom. 9:11. 5 Rom. 8:29, 30. 
< Cf. II Kings 22:11-13, 1 8, 19; 23:3 ff. 



350 ORIGEN 

only foreknown but also foretold in the hearing of many what 
he would then do? 7 Why, too, should Judas pray, so that "his 
prayer be turned into sin," it having been previously an- 
nounced, from the times of "David," that he would lose "his 
office, 3 ' and that "another" would "take" it in his stead? 8 And 
since God is unchangeable and has predetermined everything 
that is, and abides in what he has pre-arranged, it is obviously 
inconsistent to pray with the idea of altering his plan by prayer, 
or of intreating him as one who has not pre-arranged it but 
awaits each one's prayer. This would be to make prayer the 
reason why God arranges what is fitting for him who prays, and 
settles then what is deemed proper, as if it had not already been 
foreseen by him. 

6. Let the position be stated now in the very words of the 
letter you addressed to me. They are as follows: "First: if God 
knows the future beforehand, and it must come to pass, prayer 
is vain. Secondly: if all things happen according to the will of 
God, and if what is willed by him is fixed, and nothing of what 
he wills can be changed, prayer is vain." It is useful, I think, to 
decide these points as a preliminary to solving the difficulties 
which cause insensibility in regard to prayer. 

Answer to these objections (Chapters VI to VIII, i) 

VI 3 i. Of things that are moved, 9 some derive from without 
that which moves them, as for example things that are without 
life, held together merely by their form, and things that are 
moved by nature and soul, which are moved now and then not 
as such, but in a manner similar to things that are held together 
merely by their form. For stones and pieces of wood, which are 
cut out of the quarry or have lost the power of growing, being 
held together merely by their form, derive from without that 
which moves them; moreover the bodies of living creatures and 
the produce of what has been planted, when they are changed 
in position by something, are not so changed qua living creatures 
or plants, but similarly to stones and to pieces of wood which 
have lost the power of growth; and even if they are moved in 
virtue of the fact that all bodies as they decay are in a state of 
flux, this motion which they have is inseparably connected with 
their state of decay. 

In the second place, and distinct from the foregoing, are 
things that are moved by their own inherent nature or soul, 
7 Cf. I Kings 13:1-3. * Ps. 109: 7, 8; Acts 1:16, 20. 9 See note. 



ON PRAYER 251 

which are said to be moved "out of themselves' 5 by those who 
use the words in their proper sense. A third kind of movement is 
that which takes place in living creatures, which is called move- 
ment "from within themselves"; but I think that the movement 
of rational beings is movement "through themselves." But if we 
take away from the living creature this movement "from within 
itself/' it can no longer be conceived of as a living creature, but 
it will be like either a plant, which is moved merely by nature, 
or a stone, which is propelled by an external force. But if a 
thing is inseparably connected with its own movement, since 
we have called this movement "through itself/' of necessity it 
must be rational. 

2 . Therefore, they who hold that we have no free will, 1 neces- 
sarily take up an extremely foolish position: in the first place, 
that we are not living creatures; and in the second, that neither 
are we possessed of reason, but moved, as it were, by some ex- 
ternal moving force, and therefore it can in no wise be said of 
us that we do what we are reckoned to do. Let a man pay partic- 
ular attention to his own experience and see if it is not impudent 
for him to affirm that he does not of himself will, or of himself 
eat, or of himself walk, or of himself assent to or accept any 
opinions of any sort, or of himself dissent from others as false. 
On the assumption that free will is not preserved, a man cannot 
possibly adopt an attitude towards certain opinions, supported 
though they may be ten thousand times by skilful and plausible 
arguments, nor, similarly, can one adopt an attitude in regard 
to human affairs. Who takes up the position that nothing may 
be apprehended? Or who lives in suspense of judgment about 
everything whatsoever? Who does not rebuke his servant, when 
he imagines negligence on the part of a slave? And who is there, 
who does not accuse a son for failing to render what is due to 
parents, or does not blame and censure as guilty of a disgraceful 
act the adulterous wife? For the truth forces and compels us, in 
spite of thousands of plausible arguments, to take action and to 
praise and to censure on the assumption that free will is safe- 
guarded, and deserves our praise or blame. 

3. If then free will is preserved, with its countless tendencies 
towards virtue or vice, and, again, towards what is fitting or 
what is not fitting, it must needs be that this, with all else, has 
been known to God, before it come to pass, "from the creation" * l 
and "the foundation of the world," 12 of what sort it shall be; 

10 See note. n Cf. Rom. 1:20. 

12 Cf. Matt. 25:34; Luke 11:50; Heb. 4:3; 9:26; Rev. 13:8; 17:8. 



252 ORIGEN 

and in everything which God arranges beforehand in accord- 
ance with what he has seen concerning each act of free will, he 
has so arranged it that that which is to happen in virtue of his 
providence, and also that which is to come to pass in the train 
of future events, will be the due result of each movement of the 
free will, But the foreknowledge of God is not the cause of all 
future events or of future actions performed by us of our free 
will and mere motion. Even if, for the sake of argument, God 
were not to know the future, we should not for that reason lose 
the power of accomplishing or willing this or that. From fore- 
knowledge, however, 13 it follows that each act of free will is 
adapted to such an arrangement of the whole as the settled 
order of the universe demands. 

4. If then each act of free will has been known to him, it is a 
reasonable consequence that what has been foreseen by him is 
arranged by Providence suitably for every single person, and 
that it is understood beforehand 14 what so-and-so will pray for, 
his kind of disposition, the nature of his faith, and what he 
desires to happen to him; and, this being understood before- 
hand, some sort of arrangement as this will accordingly have 
been made in the disposing of things: "I will hear this man who 
will pray intelligently, for the very prayer's sake which he will 
pray; but this man I will not hear, either because he will be 
unworthy to be heard, or because he will pray 14 for things 
which are neither profitable for him who prays, nor proper for 
me to grant; and for this prayer (let us say) of so-and-so I will 
not hear him; but for that, I will hear him." (If anyone is dis- 
turbed by the thought that things have been determined by 
necessity because God, who knows the future beforehand, can- 
not lie, it should be said to such a one that this very thing is 
assuredly known to God, that such and such a man does not 
assuredly and firmly desire what is better, or that he will so 
will what is worse that he will be incapable of changing towards 
what is preferable.) And again, "I will grant this or that to this 
man who will pray, because it is meet for me to do this for a 
man who will pray blamelessly and will not prove careless in 
the matter of prayer; and when he shall pray for a certain time, 
I will bestow this or that upon him 'exceeding abundantly above' 
what he c asks or thinks,' 15 for it is meet for me to overpass him 
in good deeds and to supply him with more than he has been 
able to ask for. Moreover, to such a one, destined to become 
such as this, I will send this ministering angel, to be his fellow- 
13 Reading *)rfv. 14 Adopting the reading of Bentley. is Eph. 3:20. 



ON PRAYER 253 

worker unto salvation from such a time onward, and to continue 
with him until such a time. To another, destined to become 
greater than the first, I will send this angel (let us say), who is 
more honourable than the other. And as for this third, who after 
embracing higher teaching is about to grow somewhat weaker 
and turn backwards to worldly things, from him I will remove 
this mightier fellow- worker: and when he has departed, some 
inferior power, seizing the occasion to assault him in his slack- 
ness, will now deservedly come upon him, and finding him given 
over and ready to sin, will incite him to such and such sins." 

5. It is in some such way as this that he who orders before- 
hand the universe will say: "Amon will beget Josiah, who will 
not emulate the evil deeds of his father, but will find the path 
that leads on to virtue, and with the help of those that shall be 
his fellows will prove to be a good and worthy man, and will 
'break down the altar' of 'Jeroboam* that was iniquitously 
built. 16 And I know also that Judas, when my Son has come to 
sojourn among mankind, at the beginning will be a good and 
worthy man, but afterwards will turn aside and fall into the 
sins that are common to man, on account of which he will 
rightly suffer such and such things." (And this foreknowledge, 
perhaps in respect of all things but certainly in respect of Judas 
and other mysteries, appertains also to the Son of God, who saw 
in his understanding of the future circle of events Judas and the 
sins that would be committed by him: so that with direct appre- 
hension, and before Judas was born, he said by the mouth of 
David, "O God, pass not over in silence my praise," 17 and so 
forth.) And knowing the future, and what power 18 for godliness 
Paul will have, "by myself," he says, 19 "or ever I create the 
world or set my hand to begin to make it, I will choose out him, 
and as soon as he is begotten I will provide him with those 
powers that work together for the salvation of men, 'separating' 
him 'from' his 'mother's womb,' 20 and permitting him at first 
in his youthful and ignorant zeal under the cloak of godliness to 
'persecute* 21 them that have believed on my Christ, and to keep 
'the garments' of them that 'were stoning' my servant and 
'martyr Stephen,' 22 so that, when this wanton outburst of youth 
is over, starting again and changing for the better he should 
'not glory before' 23 me, but rather say, 'I am not meet to be 

16 II Kings 23:15; cf. II Kings 21:24; 22:2. " Ps. 109:1. 

is Lit. "tension." i The words "he says" are inserted by Koetschau. 

%* Gal. 1:15. 21 Acts 9:5. 22 Acts 7:59; 22:20. 

231 COT. 1:29. 



254 ORIGEN 

called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God,' 24 
and, perceiving the bounty that should come to him after the 
errors committed in youth under the cloak of godliness should 
say, c by the grace of God I am what I am,' 2 ^ and being pre- 
vented by the conscience still with him of what he had done in 
the impulse of youth, he will not be 'exalted overmuch by 
reason of the exceeding greatness of the revelations' 26 that will 
be manifested to him by an act of bounty. 33 

VII. And with regard to prayer concerning the rising of the 
sun, 27 the following may be said. Even the sun has a certain 
free will, inasmuch as it, along with the moon, praises God. For he 
says, "Praise ye him, sun and moon. 3 ' 28 And it is clear that this 
also applies to the moon and consequently all the stars: for he 
says, "Praise him all ye stars and light. 35 28 As therefore we have 
said 29 that God uses to the full the free will of each thing upon 
earth, and has fittingly disposed them to meet a certain need of 
the things upon earth, so it must be supposed with regard to the 
free will of the sun and moon and stars, firmly fixed and wisely 
established, that he has disposed "all the host of heaven 3 ' 30 and 
the course and movement of the stars harmoniously with the 
whole universe. And if I do not pray in vain concerning some 
other thing that has free will, much more is this true concerning 
the free will of the stars that circle in the heaven conformably to 
the safety of the whole universe* And yet it must be said con- 
cerning those on earth, that certain impressions arising from 
attendant circumstances induce our instability or inclination to 
the worse 31 course, so as to do or say such and such things. But 
in regard to those in the heaven, what impression can arise to 
divert or remove from that course which is beneficial to the 
universe any of those beings who possess a soul that is perfected 
by reason and alien to the influence of these impressions, and 
make use of a body whose quality is etherial and absolutely 
pure? 

VIII, i* Moreover, it is not unreasonable to use some such 
illustration as this to encourage the practice of prayer and dis- 
courage the neglect of prayer. As it is not possible to beget a 
child without a woman and the possession of the necessary- 
powers of begetting, so a man may not obtain this or that, un- 
less he has prayed in such a way, with such a disposition, with 

24 I Cor. 15:9. 25 I Cor. 15:10. 26 II Cor. 12:7. 

27 See V, 3. 28 p s . I4 8;3. 29 See VI, 3. 

30 Deut. 4:19. 

31 Reading -xslpov, with Bentley: the MSS. have "better course," 



ON PRAYER 255 

such a belief; and if before the prayer he has not lived in such a 
manner. Therefore, "vain repetitions" ought not to be "used," 32 
nor ought we to ask for little things, 33 nor ought we to pray 
concerning earthly things, nor ought we to come to prayer in 
"wrath" 34 and with agitated thoughts; indeed, without purity 
a man cannot secure the giving of himself to prayer, 35 nor can 
he who prays obtain forgiveness of sins, unless "from" his 
"heart" he "forgives his brother" 36 who has committed a fault 
and asks to receive pardon. 

Advantages of Prayer (Chapters VIII, 2, to X, 2) 

In my opinion benefit often accrues to him who prays as he 
ought or endeavours as far as in him lies to do so. In the first 
place, without doubt he whose mind is set on prayer is in some 
sense profited merely by the settled condition involved in 
praying, when he has disposed himself to approach God and 
speak in his presence as to one who watches over him and is 
present. For just as certain impressions and recollections of this 
or that sully the thoughts that have been involved in these im- 
pressions, in connection with the subjects of these recollections; 
in the same way we must believe that it is profitable to recollect 
God in whom we have put our trust, who perceives the secret 
movements of the soul, when it composes itself to please him 
who "trieth the hearts and searcheth out the reins" 37 as one 
who is present and spies out and anticipates every purpose. 
For if, for the sake of argument, he who sets his mind to prayer 
obtains no benefit beyond this, it is to be observed that he who 
thus devoutly disposes himself at the time of prayer profits in no 
ordinary way. And if this happens often, how many sins it pre- 
vents and how many good deeds it promotes, is known by ex- 
perience to those who have given themselves continually to 
prayer. For if the calling to mind and reminiscence of an illus- 
trious man who has profited by wisdom stirs us up to emulate 
him and often checks evil impulses, how much more does the 
calling to mind of God, the Father of the universe, together with 
prayer to him, benefit those who are confident in themselves 
that they stand before and speak to God as one who is present 
and hears? 

IX, i. What we have said must be proved from the divine 
Scriptures on this manner. He who prays ought to "lift up holy 

32 Matt. 6:7. 33 See II, 2. 34 I Tim. 2:8. 

35 Cf. I Cor. 7:5. 36 Matt. 18:35. 

37 Cf. p s . 7:9; Jer. 11:20; 17:10; Rom. 8:27; Rev. 2:23. 



256 ORIGEN 

hands 5 * 38 by forgiving everyone who has sinned against him, 39 
having removed from his soul the feeling of "wrath," 38 and 
being angry with no one. Again, in order that his mind may not 
be distracted by other thoughts, he ought to forget, during the 
time when he prays, all things outside his prayer (how could 
such a one be other than most blessed?), as Paul teaches in his 
first [epistle] to Timothy, saying, "I desire therefore that the 
men pray in every place, lifting up holy hands without wrath 
or disputings." 40 Moreover, a woman, especially when praying, 
ought to be sedate and modest in soul and body, reverencing 
God above all things when she prays, having banished from the 
ruling reason every licentious and womanish recollection, 
adorned not "with braided hair and gold or pearls or costly 
raiment, but" with the things which it "becomes a woman pro- 
fessing godliness" to be "adorned" (could anyone doubt, I 
wonder, that such a woman who has thus given herself to 
prayer would be manifestly blessed merely as a result of such an 
attitude?), as Paul taught in the same epistle, saying, that 
"women in like manner adorn themselves in modest apparel, 
with shamefastness and sobriety; not with braided hair,, and 
gold or pearls or costly raiment, but (which becometh women 
professing godliness) through good works." 41 

2. The prophet 42 David also has much to say concerning the 
blessings that the saint has in prayer. And it is not irrelevant 
to quote the following, so that we may clearly see that the 
greatest benefits result from the attitude of, and preparation for, 
prayer, considered simply by themselves, of the man who has 
dedicated himself to God, He says, then: "Unto thee have I 
lifted up mine eyes, O thou that dwellest in the heaven" 43 ; and, 
"Unto thee have I lifted up my soul, O God." 44 When the eyes 
of the understanding are lifted up, away from converse with 
earthly things and occupation with material impressions, and 
when they are elevated so high that they can transcend created 
things and fix themselves solely upon the contemplation of God 
and of reverent and seemly intercourse with him who hears, it 
must needs be that the eyes themselves derive the greatest bene- 
fit, when "with unveiled face they reflect as a mirror the glory 
of the Lord, and are transformed into the same image from 
glory to glory." 45 For they then partake of a kind of divine 
spiritual effluence, as is indicated in the words: "the light of thy 

58 I Tim. 2:8, 39 Cf. Matt, 6:12, 14; Luke 1 1:4. 

40 I Tim. 2:8. K I Tim. 2:9, 10. 42 Cf. Acts 2:30. 

43 PS. I23H. 44 Ps. 25:1, 2. 45 H Cor. 3:18. 



ON PRAYER 257 

countenance, O Lord, was signed upon us." 46 Moreover, when 
the soul is lifted up and follows the spirit and severs itself from 
the body and not only follows the spirit but also dwells in it, 
as is indicated in the words: "Unto thee have I lifted up my 
soul 5 ' 47 it must needs be that laying aside the nature of a-soul 
it becomes spiritual. 

3. And if to bear no malice is the greatest excellence, as 
would appear from the prophet Jeremiah, when he says that 
the whole law is summed up in it: "I commanded not" these 
things "to your fathers" when they were coming forth "out of 
Egypt/' but "I commanded this," 48 "Let no one bear malice 
against his" neighbour "in" his "heart" 49 ; and if putting aside 
such malice in coming to prayer we observe the commandment 
of the Saviour, when he says, "If ye stand praying, forgive, if ye 
have aught against anyone," 50 it is clear that in so doing, as we 
stand to pray, we have already obtained the greatest blessings. 

X, i. The foregoing has been said on the supposition that 
even if no other result followed our prayers, we gain the greatest 
blessings when we understand how to pray as we ought and when 
we cany this out. And it is clear that he who thus prays will 
hear "while" he "is yet speaking," perceiving, by the power of 
him who "hears in heaven," 51 the "Here I am," having cast 
aside, before he prayed, all dissatisfaction concerning Provi- 
dence. This is indicated in the words: "If thou take away from 
thee the yoke, the putting forth of the hand and the word of 
murmuring." 52 He who is well pleased with what happens has 
been set free from every kind of "yoke," nor does he "put forth 
the hand" against God, when he orders what he wills for our 
training; nor yet again does he "murmur" in his secret thoughts 
apart from an utterance that men can hear. This murmuring is 
like that of wicked servants who do not openly cavil at their 
masters 3 orders. Thus do they murmur who do not dare audibly 
or whole-heartedly to speak evil of Providence for what has 
happened; they wish as it were to escape the notice even of the 
Lord of the universe as concerning those things at which they 
are displeased. I think that this is the point of the words in the 
Book of Job: "In all these happenings did not Job sin with his 
lips before God" 53 ; it having been written of the previous trial, 54 
"In all these happenings did not Job sin before God." 55 That 

46 Ps. 4:6. 47 PS. 25:1. 48 Cf. Jer. 7:22, 23. 

49 Zech. 7:10. 50 Mark 11:25. " I Kings 8:30. 

52 Isa. 58:9. 53 Job 2:10. 

54 Adopting, with Koetschau, a slight change of text. fi s Job 



258 ORIGEN 

this ought not to occur the saying in Deuteronomy ordains: 
"Beware that there be not a hidden word in thine heart, a law- 
less thing, saying, The seventh year is at hand/' 56 and so forth. 
2. He then that so prays receives such benefit that he is made 
more capable of union with him who "has filled the world," 
even "the Spirit 5357 of the Lord, and with him who has "filled" 
all "the earth" and "the heaven," who speaks thus through the 
prophet: "Do not I fill heaven and earth, saith the Lord?" 5 ^ 
And further, by means of the purification mentioned above, 59 
he will participate in the prayer of the Word of God, who stands 
in the midst even of those who know him not, and never fails 
the prayer of anyone, but prays to the Father along with him 
whose mediator he is. For the Son of God is the "high priest" 60 
of our offerings and "an Advocate with the Father," 61 praying 
on behalf of those who pray, pleading along with those who 
plead: nevertheless, he will not pray as on behalf of his own for 
those who do not pray continually through him, nor will he be 
"an Advocate with" God as on behalf of his very own for those 
who do not obey his teachings that one "ought always to pray, 
and not to faint." 62 For, it is said, "he spake a parable" that one 
"ought always to pray, and not to faint. There was in a city a 
judge," 63 and so forth. And in a previous passage, "And he said 
unto them, Which of you shall have a friend, and shall go unto 
him at midnight, and say unto him, Friend, lend me three 
loaves; for a friend of mine is come to me from a journey, and I 
have nothing to set before him." 64 And, a little further on, "I say 
unto you, though he will not rise and give him, because he is 
his friend, yet because of his importunity he will rise and give 
him as many as he needeth." 65 Who is there who believes in the 
unerring utterance of Jesus, who would not be stirred up to 
instant prayer by his saying, "Ask and it shall be given you, for 
everyone that asketh receiveth" 66 ? since the "kind Father," 67 
when we ask him for "the living bread" 68 (not "the stone" 69 
which the adversary 70 desires for the food of Jesus and his dis- 
ciples) gives to them who have "received the spirit of adoption" 
from "the Father" 7 ^; and "the Father gives the good gift," 72 
"raining it from heaven," 73 to them that ask him. 

56 Deut. 15:9. 57 Wisdom of Solomon 1 17. 58 Jer. 23:24. 

59 See VIII, i. 60 Heb. 2:17, etc. I John 2:1. 

62 Luke 18:1. 63 Luke 18:1, 2. 64 Luke 11:5, 6. 

65 Luke 11:8. 66 Matt. 7:7, 8; Luke 11:9, 10. 6? Luke 6:35. 

68 John 6:51. 69 Cf. Matt. 4:3; Luke 4:3; Matt. 7:9; Luke 11:11. 
70 C Zech. 3:1. 71 Rom. 8:15. 

72 Cf. Matt. 7:11; Luke 11:13. 73 Ex. 16:4. 



ON PRAYER 259 

The angels, as well as Christ., pray with us (Chapter XI) 

XI, i. Not only does the high priest pray along with those 
that genuinely pray, but also the angels "in heaven, " who re- 
joice "over one sinner that repenteth more than over ninety and 
nine righteous persons, which need no repentance/' 74 and so do 
also the souls of the saints who have fallen asleep before us. This 
is indicated in the following references. On the one hand, 
Raphael offered for Tobit and Sarah a reasonable sacrifice 75 to 
God. 76 For after the prayer of both, "the prayer of both," the 
Scripture says, "was heard before the glory of the great Raphael, 
and he was sent to heal them both." 77 And Raphael himself, 
when disclosing the mission that he had as an angel to them 
both by God's command, says, "And now, when thou didst 
pray, and Sarah thy daughter in law, I did bring the memorial 
of your prayer before the Holy One." 78 And a little lower down: 
"I am Raphael, one of the seven angels, which present [the 
prayers of the saints], 79 and go in before the glory of the Holy 
One." 80 Certainly, according to the word of Raphael, "good is 
prayer with fasting and alms and righteousness." 81 On the 
other hand, "Jeremiah" is represented in the Books of the 
Maccabees as "of venerable age and exceeding glory," so that 
"wonderful and most majestic was the dignity around him," 82 
and "stretching forth his right hand, he delivered to Judas a 
sword of gold." 83 To whom bore witness another of the saints 
who have fallen asleep before us, saying, "This is he who pray- 
eth much for the people and the holy city, Jeremiah the prophet 
of God." 84 

2. Since knowledge is disclosed to them that are worthy in 
this present life "through a mirror" and "in a riddle," but is 
revealed hereafter "face to face," 85 it is indeed absurd not to 
employ this analogy in thinking also of the other virtues; for 
what has been prepared for in this life is properly perfected 
hereafter. Now according to the divine word one of the chiefest 
virtues is love to one's neighbour. 85a And we must hold that the 
saints who have fallen asleep before us exercise towards those 
who are struggling in this life much more than do they who are 
compassed about with human weakness and are struggling in 

74 Luke 15:7. 75 Upovfyyiav. 76 Cf. Tobit I2H2. 

77 Tobit 3:16, 17. 78 Tobit 12:12. 

79 The words in brackets are absent from the MS. T, but are found in the 

LXX. *o Tobit 12:15. si Tobit 12:8. 

82 II Maccabees 15:13, 14. 83 U Maccabees 15:15. 

84 II Maccabees 15:14. 85 1 Cor. 13:12. 

85 Cf. Matt 5:43, 44; Luke 6:35; 10:27 etc - 



ORIGEN 

company with feebler folk. It is not only in this life that the 
words: "If one member suffereth, all the members suffer with 
it"; and "if one member is honoured, all the members rejoice 
with it" 86 may be applied to those who love the brethren; for it 
can be fittingly said also of the love that animates those outside 
this present life, "anxiety for all the churches. Who is weak, and 
I am not weak? who is made to stumble, and I burn not? 5 ' 87 
Christ also acknowledges as concerning each of the saints that 
are "sick" that he is "sick" likewise, and that he is "in prison," 
and that he is "naked, a stranger," and "an hungred" and 
"thirsty." 88 What reader of the Gospel does not know that 
Christ refers to himself the happenings of the faithful and 
reckons their sufferings as his own? 

3. If "angels" of God "coming to" Jesus "ministered unto 
him," 89 we must not suppose that this ministry of angels to 
Jesus was only for the short period of his bodily sojourn among 
men, since he is still "in the midst of" believers, not as "sitting 
at meat," but "as serving." 90 How many angels therefore may 
there be ministering to Jesus as he seeks to "gather together the 
children of Israel one by one" 91 and muster them of "the Dis- 
persion," 92 and as he saves them that fear and call upon him? 93 
Do not they, even more than the apostles, work together for 
the increase and multiplying of the Church (for certain rulers 
of the churches are called "angels" 94 by John in the Apocalypse)? 
It is not in vain that "the angels of God ascend and descend 
upon the Son of man," 95 being seen by those whose eyes have 
been "enlightened" with "the light of knowledge." 96 

4. At the actual time of prayer, being reminded by him who 
prays of what he needs, the angels do all in their power to bring 
it to good effect in virtue of the general command which they 
have received. Let me use the following illustration to commend 
my thought on this matter. Suppose that a physician with a 
regard for righteousness was present when a sick man was pray- 
ing concerning his health; and that he knew how to heal the 
disease concerning which this man was offering up his prayer. 
It is clear that the physician will be moved to heal the man who 
prayed, perhaps not unreasonably supposing that this very 
thing was in the mind of God when he gave ear to the prayer of 
him who prayed to him for the removal of the disease. Or sup- 

*<s I Cor. 12:26. s? II Cor. 11:28, 29. ** Gf. Matt. 25:35-40. 

Matt, 4:11. 9 Luke 22:27. 9i Isa. 27:12. 

** Gf. John 7:35; 10:16; 11:52. 93 Cf. Acts 2:21; Rom. 10:12, 13. 

94 Rev. 1:20, eta John 1:51. 96 Hos. 10:12 (LXX). 



ON PRAYER 26l 

pose that a man abundantly possessed of the means of livelihood 
and liberally disposed should hear the prayer of a poor man as 
he offers his petition to God for his needs: it is plain that he too 
will fulfil for the poor man the substance of his prayer, thus 
becoming a minister of the Father's will, who brings together to 
the same place at the time of the prayer both him who is about 
to pray and also him who is able to supply the request and un- 
able because of his kindly disposition to disregard him who 
stands in need of such and such things. 

5. We need not suppose that these happenings, when they 
occur, come by chance, since he who "has numbered the hairs 
of the head 5 ' 97 of the saints fittingly brings together at the time 
of the prayer to hear it him who is to act as the minister of the 
man who seeks the benefit from God and the man who truly 
stands in need. In the same way we are to assume that the angels, 
who watch over things and minister to God., are at times 
brought into the presence of this or that man who is praying, in 
order that they may join in the requests that he is making in his 
prayer. And indeed "the angel" of each one and of the "little 
ones" in the Church, "always beholding the face of the Father 
which is in heaven," 98 and gazing upon the divinity of him who 
created us, joins in our prayers and co-operates as far as possible 
in the objects for which we pray. 

Our whole life ought to be a prayer (Chapters XII to XIII, i) 

XII, i. Moreover, I hold that the words of the prayer of the 
saints are filled with power, especially when "praying with the 
spirit" they "pray with the understanding also." 99 This last is 
like a light shining from the mind of him who is praying, and 
going forth from his mouth, to weaken by the power of God the 
spiritual poison injected by hostile powers into the reason of 
those who neglect prayer, and do not observe the saying "pray 
without ceasing" 1 spoken by Paul in conformity with the ex- 
hortations of Jesus. It goes forth like a dart from the soul of the 
saint who prays, sent on its way by knowledge and reason or by 
faith, la and inflicts a wound for the destruction and overthrow 
of the spirits that are at enmity with God, and desire to cast 
around us the bonds of sin. 

2. That man "prays without ceasing" 1 (virtuous deeds or 
commandments fulfilled being included as part of prayer) who 

97 Matt. 10:30; Luke 12:7. ** Matt. 18:10. *> I Cor. 14:15. 

i 1 Thess. 5:17. 1* Following an emendation of the text. 



262 ORIGEN 

combines with the prayer the needful deeds and the prayer 
with the fitting actions. For thus alone can we accept "pray 
without ceasing" 2 as a practicable saying, if we speak of the 
whole life of the saint as one great unbroken prayer: of which 
prayer that which is commonly called prayer is a part. This 
ought to be engaged in not less than three times every day, as is 
clear from the case of Daniel, who when great danger hung over 
him "prayed three times a day." 3 "Peter" also, "going up to 
the housetop about the sixth hour to pray," when also he saw 
the "vessel let down" 4 from heaven, "let down by four corners," 5 
is evidence for the middle one of the three prayers, while the 
one before it is spoken of by David, "In the morning shalt thou 
hear my 33 prayer, 6 "in the morning will I order [my prayer] 
unto thee and will look up" 7 ; and the final one is indicated in 
the words "the lifting up of my hands as the evening sacrifice." 8 
Indeed we shall not fittingly pass even the night time without 
this prayer: for David says, "At midnight did I rise to give 
thanks unto thee for the judgments of thy righteousness" 9 ; and 
"Paul," as is stated in the Acts of the Apostles, "about mid- 
night" in company with "Silas," at Philippi, "was praying and 
singing hymns unto God," so that even the "prisoners listened 
to them." 10 

XIII, i. Now if Jesus prays, and does not pray in vain, ob- 
taining through prayer what he asks for (and perhaps he would 
not have received it without prayer), which of us may neglect 
prayer? For Mark says, "In the morning, a great while before 
day, he rose up and went out, and departed into a desert place, 
and there prayed." 11 And Luke: "And it came to pass, as he 
was praying in a certain place, that when he ceased, one of his 
disciples said unto him" 12 ; and elsewhere: "and he continued 
all night in prayer to God." 13 And John records his prayer 
thus: "These things spake Jesus; and lifting up his eyes to 
heaven, he said, Father, the hour is come; glorify thy Son, that 
thy Son also may glorify thee." 14 Also, the saying of the Lord 
"I knew that thou hearest me always," 15 recorded by the same 
writer, shows that praying "always" is "always" heard. 

2 I Thess. 5:17. s Dan. 6:10. 

4 Perhaps descending should be read (Acts 10:11). 

5 Acts 10:9-11. 6 The Hebrew and LXX have "voice.** 
7 Ps. 5:3. s Ps. 141:2. 

s Ps. 119:62. 10 Acts 16:25. 

11 Mark 1:35. 12 Luke 11:1. 

13 Luke 6:12. n John 17:1. 
15 John 11:42. 



ON PRAYER 263 

Examples from Scripture of answered prayer (Chapter XIII, 2) 

2. But why need I tell the tale of those who have obtained 
the greatest blessings from God by praying as they ought? Each 
one can collect for himself from the Scriptures many examples. 
Hannah ministered to the birth of Samuel, who was reckoned 
along with Moses, 16 when, having no child, she prayed in faith 
to the Lord. 17 Hezekiah, when as yet he was childless, on learn- 
ing from Isaiah that he was about to die, prayed, 18 and has been 
given a place in the genealogy of the Saviour. 19 Again, when the 
people [of the Jews] were about to be destroyed as a result of 
the plot of Haman under a single decree, the prayer with fasting 
of Mordecai and Esther was heard, and it gave birth to "the" 
joyful "day of Mordecai" 20 among the people, 21 an addition to 
the feasts established by Moses. Judith, moreover, when she had 
offered up a holy prayer overcame Holophernes with the help 
of God, and a woman of the Hebrews single-handed brought 
shame upon the house of Nebuchadnezzar. 22 Also, Ananias, 
Azarias, and Misael in due answer to their prayer were sent "a 
whistling dewy wind" which prevented "the flame of fire" from 
exerting its power. 23 And the mouths of the Babylonians 5 "lions 
in the den" were stopped by the prayers of Daniel. 24 And Jonah 
too did not despair of being heard from "the belly of the great 
fish" which "swallowed" him, and when he came out from the 
belly of the fish he fulfilled what was lacking of his prophecy 
concerning the Ninevites. 25 

Similar prayers are also answered today (Chapter XIII, 3-5) 

3. How many things could each of us tell of, had we the de- 
sire, out of a thankful remembrance of benefits conferred upon 
us, to offer praises to God concerning them? Souls that have 
long been sterile, perceiving the barrenness of their own reason 
and the sterility of their own mind, have by the Holy Spirit 
through persistent prayer conceived and given birth to saving 
words filled with perceptions of truth. How many enemies have 
been destroyed, when time and again myriads of a hostile power 
fought against us and sought to turn us from the divine faith? 
Then we took heart of grace because "some" trust "in chariots" 
and "some in horses," but "we" calling upon "the name of the 

16 Jer. 15:1; cf. Ps. 99:6. 17 I Sam. 1:9 ff. 

is Cf. II Kings 20:1 ff.; Isa. 38:1 ff. & Matt. 1:9, 10. 

20 II Maccabees 15:36. 21 Cf. Esth. 3:6, 7; 4:16, 17; 9:26-28. 

22 Judith 13:4-10. 23 Dan. 3:243 49, 50 (LXX). 

24 Dan. 6:16, 22. 25 Jonah 1:17; 2:1; 3:1-4. 



1264 ORIGEN 

Lord" 26 perceive that truly "an horse is a vain thing for safety." 27 
Moreover, he who puts his trust in praise to God oftentimes 
brings to nought "the chief captain" 28 of the adversary, even 
that deceitful and plausible word, which causes many to cower 
for fear, even of those who are reckoned faithful. For Judith 
signifies praise. What need is there also to speak of the numbers 
of those who have often encountered trials, hard to overcome, 
more searing than any flame, and yet have suffered therein no 
hurt, but have passed through them quite unharmed, not even 
receiving in the ordinary way the harm of "the smell of the" 
enemy's "fire." 29 Moreover, how many wild beasts, enraged 
against us, even evil spirits and cruel men, have they fallen in 
with, and by their prayers often stopped their mouths, so that 
they could not fasten their teeth upon those of us who have 
become "the members of Christ"? 30 Often for each of the saints 
"the Lord hath broken the great teeth of the lions," and "they 
have melted away as water that passeth by." 31 And we have 
often known those who had fled from the commandments of 
God and were "swallowed up" 32 of death, which in days gone 
by had power over them, who through repentance were saved 
from utter disaster, because they did not despair of the pos- 
sibility of salvation even when held fast "in the belly of" 33 
death. For "death, prevailing, swallowed them up; and God 
hath taken away again every tear from off every face." 34 

4. I consider that, after giving a list of those who have been 
benefited by prayer, it has been most necessary to add this, in 
order to turn away from prayer for trivial and earthly things 
earnest seekers after spiritual life in Christ, and to exhort the 
readers of this book to the pursuit of things mystical, of which 
the aforesaid were types. For prayer concerning the spiritual 
and mystical blessings that we have indicated above, is always 
and in every case brought to good effect by him who "does not 
war according to the flesh," 35 but who "by the spirit mortifies 
the deeds of the body," 36 those who seek out and establish the 
higher sense being preferred to those who appear to receive 
benefits prayed for according to the letter. And in our case we 
must make it our endeavour that the soul 37 be not childless or 
barren, as we listen to the spiritual law with spiritual ears: so 

26 PS. 20:7. 27 Ps. 33 ; I7 . 28 Judith 2:4, CtC. 

29 Dan. 3:27. 30 I Cor. 6:15. 3i Ps. 58:7, 8. 

32 Jonah 2:1, 2. 33 Jonah 2:1, 2. 34 Isa. 25:8. 

35 II Cor. 10:3. 36 Rom. 8:13, 

37 "soul" is supplied from a conjecture of Bentley. 



ON PRAYER 265 

that putting aside childlessness or barrenness we may be heard 
as Hannah and Hezekiah were, and may be delivered from 
enemies that plot against us, even the spiritual forces of evil, as 
Mordecai and Esther and Judith were. And since "Egypt" is 
"an iron furnace, 3 ' 38 being a symbol of every terrestrial place, 
let every one who has escaped from the evil in human life, and 
has not been set on fire by sin, nor had his heart full of fire like a 
furnace, give thanks no less than they did who were tried in a 
"fire of dew." 39 Moreover, let him who has been heard when in 
his prayer he said "deliver not to the wild beasts the soul that 
hath acknowledged thee," 40 and has suffered no hurt "from the 
adder and the basilisk," because Christ has enabled him to 
"tread upon" them, and has "trampled under foot the lion and 
the dragon," 41 and has used the good "power given" by Jesus 
"to tread upon serpents and scorpions and over all the power of 
the enemy," 42 and has been in no wise harmed by such like 
let such a one give greater thanks than Daniel did, inasmuch as 
he has been delivered from more fearful and harmful wild 
beasts. And further, he who is persuaded of what "great fish" 
that which "swallowed" Jonah is the type, 43 and comprehends 
that it is the one spoken of by Job, "Let him curse it that curses 
the day, who is ready to overpower the great fish," 44 if at any 
time he should happen to find himself because of disobedience 
"in the belly of the fish" 45 ; let him repent and pray, and he shall 
go forth therefrom; and going forth and continuing to obey the 
commandments of God he shall be able in "the kindness" of 
"the Spirit" 46 to prophesy to the Ninevites that are perishing 
even now and become for them a cause of salvation, if he is not 
displeased at the "goodness of God" and does not seek that his 
"severity" 47 should continue towards them that repent. 

5. The greatest thing that Samuel is said to have wrought by 
prayer, this in the spiritual sense it is possible for every one who 
is genuinely devoted to God to accomplish even now, since he 
has become worthy of being heard. For it is written: "And now 
stand, and see this great thing, which the Lord doeth before 
your eyes. Is it not wheat harvest today? I will call upon the 
Lord, and he will give thunder and rain." Then, after a little: 
"And Samuel called," he says, "unto the Lord, and the Lord 
gave thunder and rain that day," 48 For to every saint and to the 

38 Dcut. 4:20. & Dan. 3:49, 50 (LXX). o Ps. 73:19 (LXX). 

4i Ps. 91:13. Luke 10:19. 43 Jonah 1:17. 

44 Job. 3:8. 45 j an ah 2:1. 4<s Gal. 5:22. 

47 Rom. 11:22 (cf. Jonah 4:1, 2). 48 I Sam. 12:16-18. 



266 ORIGEN 

genuine disciple of Jesus it is said by the Lord: "Lift up your 
eyes and look on the fields, that they are white already unto 
harvest. He that reapeth receiveth wages, and gathereth fruit 
unto life eternal." 48 * Verily at that season of harvest "the Lord 
doeth a great thing before the eyes" of them that hear the 

Erophets. For when he who has been adorned with the Holy 
pint has "called unto the Lord/' God gives from heaven 
"thunder, and rain" that refreshes the soul, so that he who was 
formerly in wickedness might "greatly fear the Lord" 49 and the 
minister of the benefit wrought by God, manifested as reverend 
and venerable in that his prayer is heard. And Elijah also 
opened "the heaven," after it had been "shut up" by the divine 
word for "three years and six months" 50 because of transgres- 
sions. And this good result follows always for everyone whom- 
soever who through prayer receives the rain of the soul, having 
been formerly deprived of it by reason of sin. 

Prayer: (a) Content, (b) Forms, (c) To whom addressed (Chapters 
XIV to XVII) 

XIV, I. Having thus expounded the benefits which come to 
the saints from prayer, let us go on to observe the saying: "Ask 
for the great things, and the little things shall be added unto 
you" and "Ask for the heavenly things, and the earthly things 
shall be added unto you." 51 It is clear that all symbolical and 
typical things are "small" and "earthly" in comparison with 
the true and spiritual things. And in all likelihood the divine 
word, in exhorting us to imitate the prayers of the saints, so that 
we may obtain in truth what they obtained in figure, 52 indicates 
the "heavenly" and "great" things by means of matters con- 
nected with "earthly" and "little" things, saying: "Ye who de- 
sire to be spiritual ask in prayer, so that having received them as 
'heavenly' ye may inherit the kingdom of heaven, and as 'great' 
ye may enjoy the greatest blessings; but the 'earthly' and 'little' 
things, of which ye are in want for bodily necessities, the Father 
will supply unto you in accordance with the measure of your 
need." 

2. Since the apostle in the First Epistle to Timothy uses four 
nouns with reference to four matters closely connected with the 
subject of prayer, it will be useful to quote his saying exactly and 
to see if we rightly take each of the four in its proper sense. He 

48a John 4:35, 36. 49 I Sam. 12:16-18. 

50 Luke 4:25; c James 5:17, 18. si See II, 2. 

52 A textual emendation has been adopted: see note. 



ON PRAYER 267 

says as follows: "I exhort, therefore, first of all, that supplica- 
tions, prayers, intercessions, thanksgivings, be made for all 
men/' 53 and so forth. I consider, then, that a "supplication" is 
a petition offered with entreaty for the obtaining of something 
which a person lacks; a "prayer" is offered in a dignified man- 
ner with ascription of praise by some one concerning matters of 
importance; an "intercession" is a request to God for certain 
things made by one who possesses more than usual confidence; 
"thanksgiving" is an acknowledgement, with prayer, that bless- 
ings have been obtained from God, the greatness of that for 
which acknowledgement is made having been recognized, or 
else the apparent greatness to him who has been benefited of the 
benefit that has been conferred upon him. 

3. Examples of the first of these terms are as follows: (i) The 
word of Gabriel to Zacharias when he had prayed, as we may 
suppose, concerning the birth of John, which runs thus: "Fear 
not, Zacharias: because thy supplication is heard, and thy wife 
Elisabeth shall bear thee a son, and thou shalt call his name 
John." 54 (2) What is written in Exodus in connection with the 
making of the calf, after this manner: "And Moses made sup- 
plication before the Lord God and said, Why doth thy wrath, O 
Lord, wax hot against thy people, which thou hast brought 
forth out of Egypt with great power?" 55 (3) In Deuteronomy: 
"And I made supplication before the Lord the second time, as 
at the first, forty days and forty nights; I did neither eat bread 
nor drink water; because of all your sins which ye sinned." 56 
(4) In Esther: "Mordecai made supplication to God, calling 
to mind all the works of the Lord, and he said, Lord, Lord, 
King, ruling over all things" 57 ; and Esther herself "made sup- 
plication to the Lord, the God of Israel, and said, Lord, our 
King." 5 * 

4. Examples of the second term for prayer are as follows: 
(i) In Daniel: "And Azarias stood up and prayed thus, and 
opened his mouth in the midst of the fire and said." 59 (2) Tobit: 
"And I prayed in sorrow, saying, Thou art righteous, O Lord, 
and all thy works; all thy ways are mercy and truth, and thou 
judgest true and righteous judgment for ever."* But since "they 
of the circumcision" 61 have obelized the passage in Daniel, as 

I Tim. 2:1. 54 Luke 1:13, 55 Ex, 32:11. S6 Deut 9:18, 

57 Esth. 13:8, 9 (R.V. and Vulg.); 4:17 a, b (LXX). 

58 Esth. 14:3 (R.V. and Vulg.); 4^7 t 1 (LXX). 

59 Dan. 3:25 (LXX). eo Tobit 3:1, 2. 

ei Acts 10:45; "; Rora. 4:12; Gal. 2:12; Col. 4:11; Titus i:ia 



268 ORIGEN 

not found in the Hebrew, and since they reject the book of Tobit 
as uncanonical, I will quote (3) from the First Book of the 
Kingdoms the passage about Hannah: "And she prayed unto 
the Lord, and wept sore. And she vowed a vow and said, O Lord 
of hosts, if thou wilt indeed look on the affliction of thine hand- 
maid, 5 ' 62 and so forth. (4) In Habakkuk: "A prayer of Habak- 
kuk the prophet 3 with a song. 63 O Lord, I have heard thy voice, 
and was afraid: O Lord, I perceived thy works and was as- 
tounded ; in the midst of two living creatures thou shalt be known, 
when the years draw nigh thou shalt be observed." 64 This 
passage is an excellent illustration of the definition of prayer, 
because it is offered with an ascription of praise by him who 
prayed. (5) Moreover, in the Book of Jonah: "Jonah prayed 
unto the Lord his God out of the fish's belly, and he said, I called 
in my affliction unto the Lord my God, and he heard me; out 
of the belly of hell thou heardest my crying, even my voice. 
Thou didst cast me forth into the depths of the heart of the sea, 
and the rivers were round about me. 3 ' 65 

5. An example of the third term for prayer is to be found (i) 
with the Apostle, when with good reason he places "prayer" 
within our power, but "intercession 53 within the power of the 
Spirit, since he is greater and has "boldness toward 5 ' 66 him 
with whom he intercedes. "For we know not how to pray," he 
says, "as we ought; but the Spirit himself maketh intercession 
exceedingly to God with groanings which cannot be uttered. 
And he that searcheth the hearts knoweth what is the mind of 
the Spirit, because he maketh intercession for the saints." 67 The 
Spirit "intercedes exceedingly" and "intercedes"; but we 
"pray." (2) Intercession also seems to me to be involved in what 
is said by Joshua about the sun standing still in Gabaoth: "Then 
spake Joshua to the Lord, in the day when God delivered the 
Amorites into the hand of Israel, when he destroyed them in 
Gabaoth, and they were destroyed from the face of the children 
of Israel. And Joshua said, Let the sun stand still upon Gabaoth, 
and the moon in the ravine of Edom." 68 (3) And in Judges, I 
think that Samson intercedes when he said, "Let my soul die 
along with the Philistines," when "he leaned with all his might; 
and the house fell upon the lords, and upon all the people that 
were therein." <* And though it is not stated that Joshua and 
Samson "interceded," but that they "spoke," what they said 

I Sam. 1:10, 11. gee note. 64 Hab. 3:1, 2. 

Jonak an, 2> 3. 66 Qf. I John 3:21. 67 R omu 8:26, 27. 

*Josk 10:12. & j u dg. 16:30. 



ON PRAYER 269 

seems to me to be "intercession, 55 which in my opinion is dif- 
ferent from "prayer," if we use the terms in their proper sense. 

An example of "thanksgiving" is to be found in our Lord's 
words, "I thank 70 thee, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, 
that thou didst hide these things from the wise and understand- 
ing, and didst reveal them unto babes." 71 For exhomologoumai 
has the same meaning as eucharisto. 

6. Now, supplication and intercession and thanksgiving may 
not unsuitably be addressed to holy men also; but two of them 
(I mean intercession and thanksgiving) not only to the saints 
but also to other men, 72 while supplication is addressed to the 
saints only, if, for example, a Paul or a Peter can be found, in 
order that they may help us by making us worthy to receive 
the "authority" given to them "to forgive sins." 73 Nevertheless, 
if we wrong someone who is not a saint, it is permitted to us, 
conscious of our sin against him, to supplicate such a one also, 
that he may pardon our wrongdoing. And if these may be 
addressed to holy men, how much more may thanksgiving be 
made to Christ, who has wrought such benefits for us by the 
will of the Father? Moreover, we may intercede with him, as 
Stephen did when he said, "Lord, lay not this sin to their 
charge" 74 ; and imitating the father of him who was "epileptic/ 5 
say, "I beseech" thee, Lord, "have mercy," either on "my 
son," 75 or on myself, or on any one whomsoever. 

XV, i. If we understand what prayer is, perhaps we ought 
not to pray to anyone born [of woman], nor even to Christ 
himself, but only to the God and Father of all, to whom also our 
Saviour prayed, as we have mentioned before, 76 and teaches us 
to pray. 77 For when he heard "Teach us to pray," he did not 
"teach" them "to pray" 78 to himself, but to the Father, saying, 
"Our Father which art in heaven," 79 and so forth. For if, as is 
shown elsewhere, the Son is different from the Father in person 
and in subject, 80 we must pray either to the Son and not to the 
Father, or to both, or to the Father alone. Now, everyone with- 
out exception will agree that it would be most absurd to pray to 
the Son and not to the Father, and that to maintain this would 
be contrary to revealed truth. If we were to pray to both, this 
would involve making our requests in the plural, saying in our 



70 ^ojioAoyou/wu'. 71 Matt. 1 1 125; Luke 10:21. 

72 Text as emended by Klostermann. 73 Qf. Matt 9:6; John 20:23. 
74 Acts 7:60. 75 Matt. 17:15; Luke 9:38. 

76 See XIII, I* 77 Cf. Matt. 6:5 ff.; Luke n;i ff. 

78 Luke 1 1:2. 79 Matt. 6:9. 80 See note, 



27O ORIGEN 

prayers "provide ye," "do ye good," "supply ye/' "save ye," 
and so on: this would be in itself incongruous, nor can anyone 
give an instance from the Scriptures of any persons using this 
mode of expression. It remains, therefore, to pray only to God 
the Father of all, but not apart from the high priest, 81 who was 
"appointed" 82 by the Father "with the talcing of an oath/' in 
accordance with the words "he sware and will not repent him- 
self, thou art a priest for ever after the order of Melchizedek." 83 

2. When therefore the saints give thanks in their prayers to 
God, they acknowledge his favours through Christ Jesus. And as 
it is not fitting that a man who prays with due care should pray 
to him who prays but rather to him whom our Lord Jesus has 
taught us to call upon in prayer, even the Father, so also no 
prayer should be offered to the Father apart from him, as he 
himself shows us clearly when he says, "Verily, verily, I say 
unto you. If ye shall ask anything of my Father, he will give it 
you in my name: ask, and ye shall receive, that your joy may be 
fulfilled." 84 For he did not say, "Ask me," nor yet, "Ask the 
Father" simply, but, "If ye shall ask anything of my Father, he 
will give it you in my name." For until Jesus had given this 
teaching, no one had "asked the Father in the name" of the 
Son. It was a true saying of Jesus: "Hitherto have ye asked 
nothing in my name"; and true also the saying: "Ask, and ye 
shall receive, that your joy may be fulfilled." 

3. But if anyone, thinking that he ought to pray to Christ 
himself, and confused by the meaning of the word "worship," 
should bring forward to us the saying: "Let all the angels of God 
worship him" 85 (admittedly in Deuteronomy spoken of Christ), 
we should say to him that the Church also, named Jerusalem by 
the prophet, is said to be worshipped by kings and queens, who 
have become her nursing fathers and mothers. The passage is as 
follows: "Behold, I lift up mine hand to the nations, and will 
lift up mine ensign to the isles; and they shall bring thy sons in 
their bosom, and will lift up thy daughters upon their shoulders. 
And kings shall be thy nursing fathers, and their queens thy 
nursing mothers: they shall worship [thee] 86 with their face to 
the earth, and lick the dust of thy feet: and thou shalt know that 
I am the Lord, and shalt not be ashamed." 87 

4. Without doubt, he who said, 88 "Why callest thou me 

si Heb. 2:17, etc. 2 Heb. 8:3. 83 Heb. 7:20, 21. 

4 John 16:23, 24. 85 Deiit. 32:43 (LXX); Heb. 1:6. 

* "thee," absent from the MS. T, is supplied from the LXX. 
87 Isa. 49:22, 23. 88 For text of this passage, see note. 



ON PRAYER 271 

good? none is good save one, even God, the Father/' 89 might 
also say, "Why dost thou pray to me? It is right to pray to the 
Father alone, to whom I also pray: as you learn from the holy 
Scriptures. For you ought not to pray to him who was 'appointed 
high priest' 90 on your behalf by the Father and who received 
from the Father the office of 'advocate,' 91 but rather through 
the high priest and advocate, who e can be touched with the 
feeling of* your 'infirmities,' and e hath been in all points 
tempted' as you are, yet because of the gift bestowed on me by 
the Father 'tempted without sin.' 92 Learn therefore how great a 
gift you have received from my Father, having 'received' 
through regeneration 93 in me 'the spirit of adoption,' 94 that you 
may be called 'sons of God.' 95 For you have read the saying 
addressed to the Father that was spoken by me concerning you 
through David: 'I will declare thy name unto my brethren, in 
the midst of the congregation will I sing thy praise.' 96 It is not 
reasonable that those who have been deemed worthy to have 
'one' 97 Father with him should pray to a brother. Therefore 
your prayer ought to be offered to the Father alone with me and 
through me." 

XVI, i. Hearing, then, Jesus saying these things, let us pray 
to God through him, all saying the same thing, and in no way 
divided concerning the manner of prayer. Are we not divided, 
if some of us pray to the Father, others to the Son? Those who 
pray to the Son, either with the Father or apart from the 
Father, sin with great simplicity through ignorance of the sub- 
ject due to lack of examination and inquiry. Let us pray, then, 
as to God, let us make intercession as to a Father, let us make 
supplication as to a Lord, let us give thanks as to God and 
Father and Lord, and in no wise as to the Lord of a slave. For 
the Father might rightly be reckoned both as Lord of the Son 
and Lord of them who have become sons through him. As "he 
is not the God of the dead, but of the living," 98 so he is not the 
Lord of ignoble slaves, but of those who are ennobled, who at 
the beginning, because of their infancy, 99 lived in fear, but 
afterwards in love serve a happier servitude than that of fear. 1 
For it is in the soul, and to him alone who sees the heart, that 
the marks of God's slaves and of his sons are manifest. 

89 Mark 10:18. 90 Gf. Heb. 8:3. Cf. I John 2:1. 

92 Heb. 4:15. 93 Cf. I Peter 1:3, 23. 94 Rom. 8:15. 

95 Rom. 8:14; Gal. 3:26. 96 Ps. 22:22 (Heb. 2:12). 

97 Gf. Heb. 2:11. 98 Mark 12:27; Matt. 22:32; Luke 20:38. 

99 Cf. Gal. 4:1, 3. i Cf. Rom. 8:15; Gal. 4:6, 7. 



272 ORIGEN 

Prayer for "earthly" and "heavenly" blessings 

2. Everyone therefore that asks God for "earthly" and 
"little" things disregards the command to ask for "heavenly" 
and "great" things from God, who knows not to grant anything 
"earthly" or "little." If anyone offers as an objection the things 
pertaining to the body that were bestowed upon the saints as 
the result of prayer, and also the evangelical saying 2 which tells 
us that "earthly" and "little" things are "added" to us, the 
following reply may be made to him. If some one were to give 
us a bodily object of any kind whatsoever, we should not say 
that such a one bestowed upon us the shadow of the bodily ob- 
ject. For in giving the bodily object he did not design to give 
two things, the object and its shadow, but the design of the 
giver was to give the bodily object: it followed, however, that 
with the gift of the object we also received its shadow. Similarly, 
when our understanding has grown in stature and we note 
which are the gifts which are pre-eminently given us by God, 
we shall say that bodily things are the most natural accompani- 
ments of the great and heavenly "spiritual gifts," 3 "given to 
each" of the saints "to profit withal," 4 either "according to 
the proportion of faith," 5 or "even as" the Giver "wills." 6 
And he wills wisely, even though we cannot assign a cause and 
reason worthy of the Giver to each of his gifts. 

3. The soul of Hannah, 7 therefore, after casting off a certain 
sterility, has borne more abundant fruit than did her body when 
it gave birth to Samuel. Hezekiah has begotten more divine 
children of the mind than ever were begotten of his body by 
bodily seed. Esther and Mordecai and the people (of the Jews) 
were more largely delivered from spiritual plots than they were 
from Hainan and those that conspired [with him. And Judith] 
has destroyed [rather] 8 the power of "the prince" 9 who willed 
to ruin her soul than of the famous Holofernes. Who would 
not confess that the spiritual blessing which comes upon all the 
saints (spoken of by Isaac to Jacob in the words: "May God 
give thee of the dew of heaven" 10 ) was bestowed more abun- 
dantly upon Ananias and those that were with him than was 
the material dew which conquered the flame kindled by 

2 Matt. 6:33. 3 I Cor. I2:Ij ^ 4 I Cor. 12:7. 

5 Rom. 12:6. I Cor. 12:11. 

? This section takes up again the O,T. references of XIII, 2. 

* The words in square brackets have been supplied to fill up a lacuna in the 

text. 

9 <X Mark 3:22; John 12:31; 14:30, 16:11. 
10 Gen. 27:28. 



ON PRAYER 273 

Nebuchadnezzar? And the mouths of the invisible lions were 
stopped for the prophet Daniel, so that they could accomplish 
nothing against his soul, rather than the mouths of the lions 
perceived by the senses, of whom everyone who reads this book 
takes note. Does it not follow 11 that he who has escaped from 
the belly of the great fish worsted by Jesus our Saviour, which 
swallows every fugitive from God, becomes a Jonah capable as 
a saint of receiving the Holy Spirit? 

XVII, i . It is not to be wondered at if to all alike who re- 
ceive, so to speak, the bodies that cause such shadows, a shadow 
like to it is not given, and to some no shadow is given at all. 12 
Students of the problems connected with sun-dials and with the 
relation of the shadow to the luminous body are clearly aware 
of what happens according to latitude. 13 For example, in some 
latitudes the gnomons give no shadow at a certain season, in 
others the shadow is short, so to speak, and in others again 
longer than in others. It is not strange, then, if the design of him 
who bestows pre-eminent gifts grants them in accordance with 
certain ineffable, mystic analogies to suit the recipients and the 
times when these pre-eminent gifts are made; sometimes no 
shadows at all follow for the recipients, sometimes there are 
shadows not of all the gifts, but of a few, sometimes they are 
smaller in comparison with the rest, sometimes larger accom- 
pany others. If a man who seeks the rays of the sun has this 
indispensable thing, he is neither rejoiced nor grieved by the 
presence or absence of bodily shadows, when having been en- 
lightened he is either deprived of the shadow or has more or less 
of the shadow. So also, if spiritual things are present to us and 
we are being enlightened by God in the complete possession of 
what is truly good, we shall not waste words about the paltry 
thing which is the shadow. For all material and bodily things, 
of whatever kind they may be, have the value of an unsub- 
stantial and feeble shadow, and can in no way be compared 
with the saving and holy gifts of the God of the universe. What 
sort of comparison can there be between bodily riches and the 
riches "in all utterance and in all" 14 wisdom? Who that is not a 
madman would compare health of flesh and bones with a 
healthy mind and a robust soul and a balanced reason? When 
all these are duly ordered by a God-given reason, they cause 
bodily sufferings to become a trifling scratch, so to speak, and 
indeed, in my opinion, less than a scratch. 

11 See note. 12 So Bentley emends. 

!3 Reading JcAt/iara for crwfiara. 14 I Cor. 1:5. 

A.G. 1 8 



274 ORIGEN 

2. He who has perceived what the beauty of the Bride is, 
whom the Bridegroom, 15 who is the Word of God, loves in the 
full bloom of the super-celestial and super-mundane beauty of 
the soul, will be ashamed to honour even with the same name 
of beauty the bodily beauty of woman or boy or man. Flesh does 
not contain beauty in the true sense of the word, seeing that all 
of it is shameful. For "all flesh is" as "grass," and the "glory 55 
of it, which appears in the so-called beauty of women and 
children, has been compared, according to the word of the 
prophet, to a "flower," as follows: "All flesh is" as "grass, and 
all the glory of it is as the flower of grass: the grass withereth, 
and the flower falleth away: but the word of the Lord remaineth 
for ever." 16 Again, who would properly continue to use the 
term "noble birth" as it is commonly employed by men, once 
he has perceived the noble birth of the sons of God? When the 
mind has contemplated "a kingdom" of Christ "that cannot be 
shaken," 17 it cannot but despise as of no worth or account every 
kingdom upon earth. When a man sees as clearly as he can (in 
so far as the human mind still imprisoned in the body is capable) 
the "host" 18 of angels and the "commanders" among them "of 
the powers of the Lord," 19 and archangels and "thrones" and 
"dominions" and "principalities" and "powers," 20 and when 
he comprehends that he can attain to equal honour with them 21 
from the Father, it must needs follow that, even though he be 
feebler than a shadow, he will despise by comparison as utterly 
mean and of no account the things that foolish men set great 
store by, and, should he be offered all these things, he will dis- 
dain them, so that he may not fail to attain unto the true prin- 
cipalities and diviner powers. We must pray, therefore, we must 
pray concerning the pre-eminently and truly great and heavenly 
blessings; and as concerning the shadows that accompany these 
pre-eminent blessings we must commit this matter to God, who 
"knows before" we "ask him what things" we "have need of" 22 
for the perishable body. 

Discussion of The Lord's Prayer 
CHAPTERS XVIII TO XXX 

XVIII, i. Enough has been said by us in the foregoing ex- 
amination of the problem of prayer, "according to the grace 

is a. John 3:29. 16 Isa. 40:6-8. n Heb. 12:28. 

is Luke 2:13. ^ Josh. 5:14. 20 Col. I:I 6. 

21 Luke 20:36. 22 Matt 6:8. 



ON PRAYER 275 

given," as we were able to receive it, by "God" 23 through his 
Christ (and we trust also, in the Holy Spirit which, if it be so, 
you who read this book will judge). Now we shall proceed to 
the next task: for we desire to consider the prayer outlined by 
the Lord, with what power it has been filled. 

The texts of the Lord's Prayer (Chapter XVIII, 2, 3) 

2 . And first of all we must note that Matthew and Luke might 
seem to most people to have recorded the same prayer, provid- 
ing a pattern of how we ought to pray. But the text of Matthew 
runs as follows: "Our Father which art in heaven, Hallowed be 
thy name. Thy Kingdom come. Thy will be done, as in heaven, 
so on earth. Give us this day our daily bread. And forgive us 
our debts, as we also have forgiven our debtors. And bring us 
not into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one." 24 Luke's 
text, on the other hand, runs thus: "Father, Hallowed be thy 
name. Thy kingdom come. Give us day by day our daily bread. 
And forgive us our sins; for we ourselves also forgive every one 
that is indebted to us. And bring us not into temptation." 25 

3. But we must reply to those who take this view, in the first 
place, that the words, although they have some resemblances, 
nevertheless appear to differ in other points, as our investigation 
of them will establish; and, in the second place, that it cannot 
be the same prayer which was spoken on "the mountain," to 
which "seeing the multitudes he went up," when, "having sat 
down, his disciples came unto him, and he opened his mouth and 
taught them" 26 (for this prayer is found recorded in Matthew 
in the context of the recital of the Beatitudes and the command- 
ments which follow), and that which, "as he was praying in a 
certain place, when he ceased," was spoken to "one of his dis- 
ciples," who had asked to be "taught to pray, even as John also 
taught his disciples." 27 For how can it be possible that the same 
words were spoken by themselves apart from any previous in- 
quiry and also delivered at the request of a disciple? Perhaps, 
however, someone will say to this that the prayers are virtually 
the same and were spoken as one prayer, on one occasion in an 
extended address, and on another to one of the disciples who 
had made the request, probably because he was not present 
when the prayer recorded in Matthew was spoken, or because 
he had not retained what was said. Perhaps, however, it is 
better to take the view that the prayers are different, though 

23 I Cor. 3:10. 24 Matt. 6:9-13. 25 Luke 11:2-4, 

26 Matt. 5:1, 2. 27 Luke 11:1. 



276 ORIGEN 

they have some parts common. We searched also the Gospel of 
Mark, in case the record of something equivalent there should 
escape us, but we found no trace whatever of the prayer in it. 

The Introduction to the Prayer in Matthew (Chapters XIX to XXI) 
XIX, i . Since, as we said above, 28 he who prays must first be 
settled and disposed in a certain manner and then afterwards so 
pray, let us consider the words that were uttered by the Saviour 
on this subject before the prayer as it is given in Matthew. They 
are as follows: "When ye pray, ye shall not be as the hypocrites; 
for they love to stand and pray in the synagogues and in the 
corners of the streets, that they may be seen of men. Verily I say 
unto you, They have received their reward. But thou, when 
thou prayest, enter into thine inner chamber 3 and having shut 
thy door, pray to thy Father which is in secret, and thy Father 
which seeth in secret shall recompense thee. And in praying use 
not vain repetitions, as the Gentiles do: for they think that they 
shall be heard for their much speaking. Be not therefore like 
unto them: for your Father knoweth what things ye have need 
of, before ye ask him. After this manner therefore pray ye." 29 

2. Our Saviour in many places clearly ranks vainglory as a 
deadly passion: as he has done also here, when he deters us from 
acting at the time of prayer as hypocrites do. For it is to act the 
hypocrite to wish to pride oneself before men for piety or 
liberality. Those who remember the saying, "How can ye be- 
lieve, which receive glory of " men, "and the glory that cometh 
from the only God ye seek not?" 30 must despise all glory from 
men, even though it be reckoned to have been given for a good 
cause, and must seek the true glory that is properly so-called, 
which comes from him alone who glorifies him who is worthy of 
glory in a manner fitting to himself and beyond the deserts of 
the recipient of glory. And that which would be reckoned as 
good in itself, and is reckoned to be praiseworthy, is sullied 
when we do it that we "may have glory of men," 31 or "that" we 
"may be seen of men" 32 : therefore no recompense from God 
follows us for this. For every word of Jesus is true 33 ; and, if one 
may use a forced expression, is truer, when it is spoken with his 
accustomed oath. He says of those who for the sake of vainglory 
seem to do good to their neighbour or "pray in the synagogues 
and the corners of the streets, that they may be seen of men/ 5 
the same thing: "Verily I say unto you, They have received 

2* VIII, 2-X, 2. 29 Matt. 6:5-9. * John 5:44. 

31 Matt. 6:2. 32 Matt. 6:5. 33 < 



ON PRAYER 277 

their reward." 34 The "rich man," of whom Luke speaks, re- 
ceived as his reward "the good things in" 35 his own mortal life, 
and because he had received these he was no longer able to 
obtain them after this present life. Similarly, he who "has re- 
ceived" his own "reward," 36 either for giving something to 
someone or for his prayers, inasmuch as he did not "sow unto 
the Spirit," but "unto the flesh, shall reap corruption," but 
"shall" not "reap eternal life," 37 Now that man "sows unto 
the flesh" who "in the synagogues and the streets, that he may 
have glory of men, doeth alms" with "a trumpet before" him, 38 
or he who "loves to stand and pray in the synagogues and 
corners of the streets, that" he "may be seen of men" 39 and be 
reckoned as pious and holy by those who see him. 

3. Moreover, everyone who travels along "the wide and 
broad way that leadeth to destruction," 40 which has nothing 
clear or straight but is altogether full of twists and corners (for 
its straightness has been very much broken into curves), stands 
in it not otherwise than he 41 who "prays in the corners of the 
streets," 42 through love of pleasure frequenting not one but 
several streets, where are to be found those who are "dying like 
men" 43 because they have fallen from their deity: who praise 
and count happy those in the streets who are wont to commit 
iniquity in their company. And at all times there are many who 
in their praying are manifestly "lovers of pleasure rather than 
lovers of God," 44 in the midst of banquets and at carousals be- 
having drunkenly in prayer, truly "standing in the corners of 
the streets" and "praying." 45 For everyone who lives according 
to pleasure, having loved "the broad" path, has fallen from 
"the narrow and straitened way" 46 of Jesus Christ a way with 
not the slightest bend and absolutely no corners at all. 

XX, i* If there is a difference between the Church and the 
synagogue (the Church properly so called "not having spot or 
wrinkle or any such thing," but "being holy and without 
blemish" 47 : into which neither he that is "born of fornication 
entereth," nor the "eunuch," nor an "emasculated" 48 person, 
nor yet "an Egyptian" or "an Idumaean," save that "sons born 
to them" of "the third generation" may scarcely join "the 

34 Matt. 6:2, 5. 35 Luke 16:19, 25. 3 Matt. 6:2, 5. 

37 Gal. 6:8. 38 Matt. 6:2. & Matt. 6:5. 

40 Matt. 7:13. 41 See note. 42 Matt. 6:5. 

43 p s , 82:7. ** II Tim. 3:4. Matt 6:5. 

46 Matt. 7:13, 14. 47 Eph. 5:27. 48 Deut. 23:1, 2. 



278 ORIGEN 

assembly/' 49 nor yet the "Moabite" or "Ammonite," unless the 
tenth "generation" is fulfilled and "the age 3 ' is accomplished 50 ; 
the synagogue, on the other hand, being "built" by "a cen- 
turion," who did this in the times before the sojourn with us of 
Jesus, when as yet witness had not been borne to him that he 
had such "faith" as the Son of God "found not in Israel" si), he 
who "loves to pray in the synagogues" is not far from "the 
corners of the streets." 52 But the saint is not such a one: for 
he does not "love [</>iAet] to pray," but rather has a deep con- 
cern [ayaTra] to do so, and not "in synagogues," but in 
churches, and not "in corners of streets," but in the straightness 
of "the narrow and straitened way" 53 ; nor yet again that he 
"may be seen of men," 54 but that he "may appear before the 
Lord God." 55 For he is a male person, perceiving "the accept- 
able year of the Lord," 56 and keeping the commandment which 
says: "Three times in a year shall all thy males appear before 
the Lord thy God." 55 

2. We must pay careful attention to "they may be seen," 54 
since "nothing that is seen is good," 57 being in appearance, as it 
were, and not truly, deceiving the imagination and not forming 
a distinct or true image. The actors of a drama in the theatre 
are not what they say they are or what they appear to be in 
accordance with the character they assume. Similarly, those 
who simulate in appearance an impression of the good are not 
righteous but are actors of righteousness, and are themselves 
acting in their own theatre, "the synagogues and the corners of 
the streets." 52 But he who is not an actor, and on the contrary 
puts aside everything that is not his own, and prepares to de- 
light himself in a place that is greater and far surpasses any of 
the theatres mentioned above, "enters into" his own "inner 
chamber, shutting" 58 himself in upon the riches laid up in 
store, 59 "the treasure of wisdom and knowledge," 60 And never 
bending outside nor gaping at the things outside, he "shuts" 
every "door" of the faculties of sense, so that he may not be en- 
ticed by the impressions of sense and their image may not pene- 
trate into his mind. Thus he prays to the Father, who does not 
flee from or abandon such a secret place, 61 but rather "dwells" 62 
in it, his only begotten 63 being also present with him. For, says 



Deut. 23:7, 8. so Deut. 23:3. si Luke 7:2, 5, 9. 

52 Matt. 6:5. 53 Matt. 7:14. 54 Matt. 6:5. 

55 Deut. 16:16. 56 i sa . 61:2 (Luke 4:19). 5? Ignatius, Romans. 3. 

ss Matt. 6:6. 59 Qf. I Tim. 6:18, 19. *o Col. 2:3. 

*i Cf. Matt. 6:6. p h. 3:17. 63 John 1:14, etc, 



ON PRAYER 279 

he, "I and the Father 64 will come unto him and make our abode 
with him." 65 It is evident that if indeed we pray thus, we shall 
make intercession not only with the righteous God but also with 
the Father, as One who is not absent from his sons but is present 
in our secret place, and watches over it, and increases what is in 
"the inner chamber," if we "shut the door"* 55 * of it. 

XXI, i. In praying, however, do "not" let "us use vain 
repetitions," 66 but rather let us speak to God. Now we "use 
vain repetitions" when we fail to examine for blemishes either 
ourselves or the words of prayer we offer up, and so speak of 
corrupt deeds or words or thoughts, which are mean and blame- 
worthy and alien from the incorruptibility of the Lord. Indeed, 
he who "uses vain repetitions" in "praying" is actually in a 
worse case than those who frequent "the synagogues," of whom 
we spoke above, and in a more grievous condition than they who 
stand "in the corners of the streets," 67 since he does not pre- 
serve a trace of even a pretence of good. According to the text of 
the Gospel, they who alone "use vain repetitions" are "the Gen- 
tiles," 68 who have no notion whatever of great and heavenly 
requests, but offer up every prayer for bodily and outward 
things. Therefore he who requests things of below from him who 
dwells in the heaven and above the highest heaven, even the 
Lord, is like unto a "Gentile using vain repetitions." 

2. It seems indeed that he who speaks much "uses vain 
repetitions," and he who "uses vain repetitions" speaks much. 
For no material or bodily thing is single; but every one of them, 
though reckoned single, is split up and cut in pieces and 
divided into several parts, having lost its unity. Virtue is one, 
vice is many; truth is one, falsehood is many; the wisdom of God 
is one, the wisdoms "of this world," and "of the rulers of this 
world, which are coming to nought," 69 are many; the word of 
God is one, those who are estranged from God are many. There- 
fore no one "shall escape transgression for much speaking," 70 
and no one, though "thinking" that he "shall be heard for" his 
"much speaking," can be heard thereby. And so our prayers 
must not "be like unto" the "vain repetitions" or "much 
speaking" of "the Gentiles," 71 or to whatever else they may do 
"after the likeness of the serpent." 7 * "For" the God of the 
saints, being a "Father, knoweth what things" his sons. "have 

64 John 10:30. 65 John 14:23. 65a Matt. 6:6. 

66 Matt. 6:7, 67 Adopting an emended text (Matt. 6:5). 

68 Matt. 6:7. 69 I Cor. 2:6. Prov. 10:19. 

71 Matt. 6:7, 8. 72 Ps. 57:5 (LXX). 



280 ORIGEN 

need of/ 3 " 73 since they are things worthy of the Father's know- 
ledge. But if a man knows not God, and knows not the things of 
God, he knows not "what things 35 he "has need of": for the 
things which he thinks he "has need of" are entirely wrong. On 
the other hand, he who contemplates what higher and holier 
things he lacks, will attain to the objects of his contemplation, 
which are known by God and have been known to the Father or 
ever the request was made. Having said so much on the passage 
which precedes the prayer in the Gospel according to Matthew, 
let us now go on to see the meaning of the prayer itself. 

OUR FATHER WHICH ART IN HEAVEN 

(Chapters XXII and XXIII) 

XXII, i. Our Father which art in heaven. 74 It is worth while 
examining with unusual care the Old Testament, as it is called, 
to see if it is possible to find anywhere in it a prayer in which 
someone calls God "Father." Though we searched to the best 
of our ability, up to the present we have found none. We do not 
mean that God is never called "Father," or that those who were 
wont to believe in God are never styled "sons of God," but that 
we have not yet succeeded in finding in a prayer that confident 
affirmation in styling God as "Father" which was made by the 
Saviour. That God is called "Father," and that those who have 
drawn nigh to the word of God are called "sons," may be seen 
from many passages, as for example in Deuteronomy: "Thou 
hast forsaken the God who begat thee, And hast forgotten the 
God who nurtureth thee" 75 ; and again: "Is not he thy Father 
that hath bought thee, and hath made thee and established 
thee?" 76 ; and again: "Sons in whom is no faith" 77 ; and in 
Isaiah: "I have begotten and brought up sons, but they have 
rejected me" 78 ; and in Malachi: "A son will honour his father, 
and a servant his master: and if I am a father, where is mine 
honour? and if I am a master, where is my fear?" 79 

2. Therefore, even though God is spoken of as "Father," and 
those begotten by the word of faith in him as "sons," it is not 
possible to find in the ancients at any rate a firm and unchange- 
able affirmation of sonship. For example, the passages we have 
quoted show that those called "sons" are blameworthy: since, 
according to the apostle, while "the heir is a child, he diflereth 

73 Matt. 6:8. 74 Matt. 6:9. 75 Deut 32:18. 

Deut 23:6* 77 Deut. 32:20. 78 Isa. i :2 . 

x:6. 



ON PRAYER 28l 

nothing from a bond-servant, though he is lord of all; but is 
under guardians and stewards until the term appointed of the 
father" 80 ; but "the fulness of the time" 81 arrived 82 at the 
sojourn of our Lord Jesus Christ, when those who desire it 
"receive the adoption of sons," 83 as Paul teaches in the follow- 
ing words: 'Tor ye received not the spirit of bondage unto fear; 
but ye received the spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, Abba, 
Father." 84 And in the Gospel according to John: "But as many 
as received him, to them gave he the right to become children 
of God, even to them that believed on his name." 85 And because 
of this "spirit of adoption," we learn in the general Epistle of 
John as concerning those "who are begotten of God" that "who- 
soever is begotten of God doeth no sin, because his seed abideth 
in him: and he cannot sin, because he is begotten of God." 86 

3. Nevertheless, if we consider the meaning of the words 
"When ye pray, say, Father," 87 as it is written in Luke, we shall 
hesitate j.\ye are not true .SOPS^Q address him by this title, lest 
perchance in addition to our sins we should incur the charge of 
impiety also. What I mean is something like this. Paul says in 
his former [epistle] to the Corinthians, "No man can say, Jesus 
is Lord, but in the Holy Spirit"; and "no man speaking in the 
Spirit of God saith, Jesus is anathema." 88 He uses "Holy Spirit" 
and "Spirit of God" as synonymous terms. But what the mean- 
ing is of "saying in the Holy Spirit Jesus is Lord" is by no means 
clear, for countless hypocrites and numbers of heretics use this 
title, and sometimes even demons when they are overcome by 
the power that is in the Name. No one will dare to maintain 
that any of these "says Jesus is Lord in the Holy Spirit." Nor 
could they even be shown to say "Jesus is Lord," since those 
only from the heart say, "Jesus is Lord," who while serving the 
word of God and while engaged in doing anything whatsoever 
call none other "Lord" save him. If it be such that say, "Jesus 
is Lord," it may be that everyone who anathematizes the divine 
Word in transgressing by his own actions cries out: "Jesus is 
anathema*" Therefore, just as such a one says, "Jesus is Lord," 
and he of an opposite mind, "Jesus is anathema," so also, 
"whosoever is begotten of God" and "doeth no sin," through 
partaking of the "seed" 89 of God, which turns him aside from 
every sin, says by his deeds: "Our Father which art in heaven," 9Q 

so Gal. 4:1, 2. *i Gal. 4:4. 82 Reading 

3 Gal. 4:5. 84 Rom. 8:15. 85 John 1:12. 

6 I John 3:9. " Luke 1 1:2. 88 I Cor. 12:3. 

8J> I John 3:9. Matt. 6:9. 



282 ORIGEN 

"the Spirit himself bearing witness with" their spirit, "that" 
they "are children of God," and his "heirs," and "joint-heirs 
with Christ," since suffering "with him" they have good hope 
to "be also glorified with him." 91 And in order that such may not 
only half say, "Our Father," ^ a "the heart" also, which is the 
fountain and source of good works, in conjunction with the 
works "believeth unto righteousness," and in harmony with 
them "the mouth maketh confession unto salvation." 92 

4. Every deed and word and thought of theirs, having been 
formed by "the only begotten Word" 93 after his likeness, 
imitates "the image of the invisible God," 94 and is "after the 
image of the Creator," 95 who "maketh his sun to rise on the 
evil and the good, and sendeth rain on the just and the unjust," 96 
so that there is in them "the image of the heavenly," 97 who is 
himself "the image of God." 94 The saints, therefore, being "an 
image" of an image (that image being the Son), acquire an 
impression of 98 sonship, becoming "conformed" not only "to the 
body of the glory" 99 of Christ, but also to him 1 who is "in the 
body." 2 They become conformed to him who is in "the body 
of the glory," 99 as they are "transformed by the renewing of 
the mind." 3 If such persons in everything say, "Our Father 
which art in heaven," 4 evidently "he that doeth sin," as John 
says in his general [epistle], "is of the devil; for the devil sinneth 
from the beginning." 5 And as the "seed" of God, "remaining in 
him that is begotten of God," 6 becomes for him who has been 
conformed 7 to "the only begotten Word" 93 the cause that "he 
cannot sin," 6 so in everyone "that doeth sin" the seed of "the 
devil" 5 is present, and, so long as it is inherent in the soul, pre- 
vents him who has it from being able to perform right actions. 
But since "to this end was the Son of God manifested, that he 
might destroy the works of the devil," it is possible, by the 
dwelling in our soul of the Word of God, when "the works of 
the devil" have been "destroyed," 8 for the evil seed implanted 
in us to be done away with, and for us "to become children of 
God." 9 

5. Do not let us think that we are taught to say actual words 
at a certain fixed time of prayer. If we understand what has 
9i Rom. 8: 16, 17. 9ia Matt. 6:9. 92 R m. 10:10. 

w John 1:14, 18. 94 Col. 1:15. 95 Col. 3:10. 

96 Matt. 5:45. s>7 I Cor. 15:49. 98 See note. 

99 Phil. 3:21. i Reading T< ovru 2 Gf. II Cor. 12:2, 3. 

3 Rom. 12:2. * Matt. 6:9. 5 i John 3:8. 

I John 3:9. 7 Gf. Gal. 4:19. * I John 3:8. 

9 John 1:12. 



ON PRAYER 283 

been said above 10 in our discussion about "praying without 
ceasing," 11 our whole life as we "pray without ceasing" shall 
say, "Our Father which art in heaven" 12 : its "citizenship" shall 
in no wise be on earth but in every way "in heaven," 15 which 
is the "throne" 14 of God; for the kingdom of heaven is seated in 
all those who "bear the image of the heavenly," 15 and therefore 
are themselves heavenly. 

XXIII, i. But when "the Father" of the saints is said to be 
"in heaven," we are not to suppose that he is circumscribed in 
bodily fashion and dwells "in heaven" 12 ; otherwise, if the 
heaven contained him, God would be found less than, because 
contained by, the heaven: but we must believe that by the in- 
effable power of his Godhead all things are contained and held 
together by him. And, speaking generally, sayings which taken 
literally are supposed by simple folk to assert that God is in a 
place, must instead be understood in a manner that befit 
grand and spiritual conceptions of God. Such are the following 
in the [Gospel] according to John: "Now before the feast of the 
passover, Jesus knowing that his hour was come that he should 
depart out of this world unto the Father, having loved his own 
which were in the world, he loved them unto the end" 16 ; and, 
a little further on, "knowing that the Father had given all 
things into his hands, and that he came forth from God, and 
goeth unto God" 17 ; and later on, "Ye heard how I said to you, 
I go away, and I come unto you. If ye loved me, ye would have 
rejoiced, because I go unto the Father" 18 ; and again, later on, 
"But now I go unto him that sent me; and none of you asketh me, 
whither goest thou?" 19 If these words are to be taken in a local 
sense, it is obvious that we must do the same with: "Jesus an- 
swered and said unto them, If a man love me, he will keep my 
word: and my Father will love him, and we will come unto him, 
and make our abode with him." 20 

2. These sayings do not conceive of a local departure of the 
Father and the Son to him who loves the word of Jesus, nor are 
they to be taken in a local sense. But the Word of God, con- 
descending for our sakes and being "humbled," 21 as concerning 
his own dignity, when he is among men, is said to "depart out 
of this world to the Father," 22 in order that we also may behold 

10 Ch. XII. 11 I Thess. 5:17. 12 Matt. 6:9. 

is Phil. 3:20. i 4 Cf. Isa. 66a. I Cor. 15:49. 

16 John 13:1. 17 John 13:3. is John 14:28. 

i* John 16:5. 20 John 14:23, 2 * Phil. 2:8. 
22 John 13:1, 



284 ORIGEN 

him there in his perfection, returning again to his own "ful- 
ness," 23 after the emptiness wherewith he "emptied himself 5 ' 24 
when he was with us: where also we, using him as our guide, 
being "made full," 25 shall be delivered from all emptiness. Let 
the Word of God, therefore, depart to "him that sent him/' 26 
quitting the world, and let him "go unto the Father." 27 And as 
for that passage at the end of the Gospel according to John, 
"Touch me not; for I am not yet ascended unto the Father/' 28 
let us seek to conceive of it in a mystical sense: the ascent of the 
Son "unto the Father," 27 when conceived of by us with holy 
insight in a manner befitting Deity, is an ascent of the mind 
rather than of the body. 

3. I think it necessary 29 to consider carefully these sayings in 
connection with the words "Our Father which art in heaven," 30 
in order to remove a mean conception of God held by those who 
consider that he is locally "in heaven," and to prevent anyone 
from saying that God is in a place after the manner of a body 
(from which it follows that he is a body) a tenet which leads 
to most impious opinions, namely, to suppose that he is divis- 
ible, material, corruptible. For every body is divisible, material, 
corruptible. Else, let them tell us that instead of indulging in 
vain imaginings they claim to conceive clearly how its nature 
can be other than material. Since, however, before the bodily 
sojourn of Christ many of the Scriptures 31 seem to say that God 
was in a place after a bodily manner, it does not appear to me 
to be inappropriate to quote a few passages from them also, in 
order to take away all doubtfulness 32 from those whose peculiar- 
ity it is, so far as they can, to confine God who is over all in a 
small and limited space. And, first, in Genesis, Adam and Eve, 
he says, "heard the voice of the Lord God walking in the after- 
noon in the garden: and Adam and his wife hid themselves from 
the face of the Lord God in the midst of the trees of the garden." 33 
We shall ask those who are unwilling to enter into the treasures 
of the passage, and indeed do not even make a beginning by 
"knocking at" their "door," 34 if they can maintain that the Lord 
God who "filleth heaven and earth," 35 who (as they suppose) 
uses in bodily fashion "heaven" as his "throne" and "the earth" 
as "the footstool of his feet," 36 is bounded by a place so small in 

23 CoL i:ig; 2:9. 24 Phil. 2:7. 25 Col. 2IIO. 

26 John 16:5. 27 John 14:12, 28. 28 John 20:17. 

29 The text lacks this word. 30 Matt. 6:9. 

3i Lit. "writings.'* 32 TreptorroCT/jtav, "distraction." 33 Gen, 3:8. 

34 Luke 13:25. 35 jer. 23:24. 36 Matt, 5:34, 35. 



ON PRAYER 285 

comparison with the whole heaven and earth, that what they 
suppose is a bodily garden is not completely filled by God, but 
is so much larger than he, that it contains him as he "walks, a 
sound" being heard from the treading of his feet. 37 And it is 
still more absurd, according to them, that Adam and Eve, in 
awe of God because of their transgression, should hide them- 
selves "from the presence of the Lord God in the midst of the 
trees of the garden." 37 For it is not even said that they so wished 
to hide themselves, but that in very truth "they were hidden." 
And how, according to them, can God ask Adam, saying, 
"Where art thou?"38 

4. We have treated these matters at length in our com- 
mentaries on Genesis. However, so that we may not now pass 
over in complete silence so important a problem, it will be 
sufficient to call to mind the saying of God in Deuteronomy 39 : 
"I will dwell in them, and walk in them." 40 His "walking" 
in the saints is of the same kind as his "walking" in the 
garden, every sinner hiding himself from the presence of 
God 41 and avoiding his visitation and shunning open speech 
with him. So also "Cain went out from the presence of God, and 
dwelt in the land of Nod, on the east of Eden." 42 As, therefore, 
he dwells in the saints, so also in heaven, whether in every saint 
"bearing the image of the heavenly," 43 or in Christ, in whom are 
all the "lights" 44 and "stars" 45 of heaven "who are being 
saved," 46 or else he dwells there because of the saints in heaven, 
in accordance with 47 the saying: "Unto thee did I lift up mine 
eyes, who dwellest in the heaven." 48 And the passage in 
Ecclesiastes, "Be not hasty to utter any thing before God: for 
God is in heaven above, and thou upon earth below," 49 makes 
a deliberate distinction between those who are still in "the body 
of humiliation," 50 on the one hand, and the angels and holy 
powers who are uplifted by the aid of the Word, 51 or Christ 
himself, on the other. For it is not inappropriate that he is 
properly the "throne" of the Father, allegorically called heaven, 
while his Church, given the name of "earth," is "the footstool 
of his feet." 52 

37 Gen. 3:8. 38 Gen. 3:9. 39 See note. 

40 II Cor. 6: 1 6: cf. Lev. 26:12; Deut. 23:14. 

41 Text emended: cf. Gen. 3:8. 42 Gen. 4:16. 
43 I Cor. 15:49. 44 Phil 2:15. 

45 Dan. 12:3; Rev. 1:20. 4 * Acts 2:475 1 Cor. 1:18; II Cor. 2:15. 

47 Text emended. 48 p s . 123:1. 49 Eccl. 5:2. 

50 Phil. 3:21. 51 Adopting an emendation of Koetschau. 
52 Matt. 5:34, 35. 



286 ORIGEN 

5. So we have added from the Old Testament also a few 
sayings which are considered to show that God is in a place, in 
order that we may persuade the reader by every means "accord- 
ing to the power" given unto "us" 53 to understand the divine 
Scripture in a loftier and more spiritual sense, whenever it 
seems to teach that God is in a place. And it was fitting to 
examine these passages in connection with the words: "Our 
Father which art in heaven" 54 words which separate the 
essence of God from all created things. For to those who do not 
partake [of his essence] there appertains a certain divine glory 
and power, and so to speak an effluence of his deity. 55 

HALLOWED BE THY NAME 

(Chapter XXIV) 

XXIV, i. "Hallowed be thy name." 56 He who prays these 
words either shows that the object of his prayer has not been 
achieved, or else having attained it he asks that a result not per- 
manent should be maintained. 57 This is evident enough from 
the passage here, in which according to Matthew and Luke we 
are commanded to say, "Hallowed be thy name," 56 as if the 
name of the Father were not yet hallowed. How, someone might 
say, can a man ask that the name of God be hallowed, as if it 
had not been hallowed? What is "the name" of the Father, and 
what is its hallowing? Let us consider these questions. 

2. A "name," then, is a compendious appellation manifesting 
the individual quality of the being named. For example, Paul 
the apostle has a certain individual quality: a quality of soul, 
which makes it of a certain kind; a quality of mind, which makes 
him capable of contemplating certain kinds of things; a quality 
of body, which makes it of a certain kind. The individuality of 
these qualities, which is incommunicable to another (for no be- 
ing is exactly similar to Paul), is indicated by the name "Paul." 
But in the case of men, since their individual qualities, as it 
were, alter, their names also according to Scripture alter suit- 
ably; when the quality of Abram changed, he was called 
Abraham 58 ; and when Simon's, he was named Peter 59 ; and 
when Saul's, the persecutor of Jesus, he was called Paul. 60 In 
the case of God, however, who is in himself unchangeable, and 

53 Eph. 3:20. 54 Matt. 6:9. 55 Qf. Wisdom of Solomon 7:25, 

5$ Matt. 6:9; Luke 1 1 :2. 

57 The text of this passage is uncertain, see note. 

58 Gen. 17:5. 59 j onn 11 Q 2 . c Mark 3:16. &> Acts 9:4, 5; 13:9. 



ON PRAYER 287 

remaining always unalterable, there is always one name, by 
which, as it were, he is called, the "I am" spoken of in Exodus, 61 
or something of similar import. Since, then, we all have some 
conception of God, and form some notions of whatever kind 
about him, but not all conceive what he is (for these are few, 
and, if I may say so, fewer than these few are those who compre- 
hend his holiness in all things), we are rightly taught that the 
idea within us of God is holy, in order that we may see the 
holiness of him as he creates, foresees, judges, chooses, forsakes, 
receives, turns away from, deems worthy of honour, punishes 
each one according to his deserts. 

3. In these and in similar expressions, if I may say so, the 
individual quality of God is characterized what in my opinion 
is called the "name of God 55 in the Scriptures: in Exodus, "Thou 
shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain" 62 ; in 
Deuteronomy, "Let my speech be waited for as the shower; let 
my words descend as the dew, as the rain upon the young grass 
and as the copious rain upon the herb 63 : for I called upon the 
name of the Lord" 64 ; in Psalms, "They shall remember thy 
name in all generations." 65 He who connects the idea of God 
with things that are not fitting "takes the name of the Lord God 
in vain," and he who is able to utter speech as the rain, which 
works together with them that hear for the fruitfulness of their 
souls, addressing words full of encouragement like dew, and by 
the power of edification bringing upon the hearers a most 
profitable shower of words or a most effectual and copious rain, 
can do these things because of the "name." Therefore, 66 when 
a man perceives his need of God the perfecter, he calls by him- 
self upon him who is truly the supplier of the above-mentioned 
blessings; and everyone who clearly sees also the things of God 
remembers rather than learns them, even though he may seem 
to hear them from some one or may think that he discovers the 
mysteries of godliness. 

4. Even as he who prays ought to note what has been said 
here and ask that "the name" of God "be hallowed," so also it 
is said in Psalms, "Let us exalt his name together," 67 the 
prophet 68 commanding us in full accord with the same mind 
and the same opinion to haste unto the true and lofty knowledge 
of the distinctive being of God. For this is to "exalt the name" 

6i Ex. 3:14. 62 Ex. 20:7. 63 See note. 

64 Deut. 32:2, 3. 65 Ps. 45:'! 7. 66 See note. 

67 p s . 34:3. 

68 So Koetschau emends: cf. Acts 2:30, and also IX, 2, above. 



288 ORIGEN 

of God "together," when a man partaking of an effluence of 
deity "exalts" 69 that very power of God of which he has partaken 
inasmuch as he has been raised up by God and has conquered 
his foes, who are unable to exult over his fall. This is indicated 
in the twenty-ninth psalm by the words: "I will exalt thee, O 
Lord, because thou didst raise me up, and not make my foes 
to rejoice over me." 70 And a man "exalts" God when he has 
dedicated for him a house within himself, as the title of the 
psalm has it: "A Psalm: A Song at the Dedication of the 
House"; A Psalm of "David." 71 

5. Further, with regard to "Hallowed be thy name" and the 
words in the imperative mood that follow, it is to be said that 
the translators also frequently use the imperative instead of the 
optative mood, as for example in the Psalms: "Let the deceitful 
lips be dumb, which speak iniquity against the righteous 
man," 72 instead of "may they be"; and "Let the extortioner 
seek out all that he hath, Let him have no helper," 73 in the one 
hundred and eighth, concerning Judas. For the whole psalm is 
a request concerning Judas, that this and that may happen to 
him. But Tatian, failing to understand that "let there be" does 
not always indicate the optative, but sometimes the im- 
perative, formed a most impious conception concerning him 
who said, "Let there be light," 74 even God, as if he were praying 
rather than commanding that there should be light: "since," 
as he expresses his godless thought, "God was in darkness." To 
him we must say, how will he take the words: "Let the earth 
bring forth grass for pasture," 75 and "Let the water under the 
heaven be gathered together," 76 and "Let the waters bring 
forth creeping things, creatures that have life," 77 and "Let the 
earth bring forth a living creature" 78 ? Does God really pray 
that "the water under the heaven" should "be gathered together 
into one meeting place" in order that he may stand upon a firm 
foundation? Or, does he pray "Let the earth bring forth" in 
order that he may partake of the things that are brought forth 
from the earth? What need has he similar to the need for light 
on the part of creatures in the water and winged creatures or 
creatures on dry land, that he should also pray concerning these? 
But if, according to this author, it would be absurd to pray con- 
cerning these the language used being in the imperative may 

Ps. 34:3. TO PS, 30:1. 7i PS. 30 (title). 

72 Ps. 31:18. 73 PS. 109:11, 12. 74 Gen. 1:3. 

w Gen. i :i i. 7Gen.i:g. 77 Gen. 1:20. 
7 Gen. 1 124. 



ON PRAYER 289 

not a like thing be said about the saying "Let there be light," 79 
since it is not in the optative but in the imperative? I have 
thought it necessary, since the prayer is expressed in the im- 
perative, to call to mind his various interpretations for the sake 
of those who have been deceived into accepting his impious 
teaching. Once upon a time we ourselves came in contact with 
these persons. 

THY KINGDOM GOME 

(Chapter XXV) 

XXV, i. "Thy kingdom come." 8 If "the kingdom of God/ 5 
according to the word of our Lord and Saviour, "cometh not 
with observation: neither shall they say, Lo, here! or, Lo, 
there! 33 but "the kingdom of God is within us" 81 ("for the word 
is very nigh, in 33 our "mouth, and in' 3 our "heart 3382 ), it is evi- 
dent that he who prays that "the kingdom" of God should come 
prays with good reason that the kingdom of God should spring 
up and bear fruit and be perfected in him. For every saint who 
takes God as his king and obeys the spiritual laws of God dwells 
in himself as in a well-ordered city, so to speak. Present with 
him are the Father and Christ who reigns with the Father in 
the soul that has been perfected, in accordance with the saying 
which I mentioned a short time ago: "we will come unto him, 
and make our abode with him. 3 ' 83 (And I think that by God's 
kingdom is meant the blessed state of the reason and the 
ordered condition of wise thoughts; while by Christ's kingdom 
is meant the words that go forth for the salvation of those who 
hear them and the works of righteousness and the other virtues 
which are being accomplished: for the Son of God is "Word" 84 
and "righteousness." 85 ) But every sinner is under the tyranny 
of "the prince of this world," 86 since he does not hand himself 
over to him "who gave himself for" us sinners, "that he might 
deliver us out of this present evil world," and "deliver us out of" 
it "according to the will of our God and Father," 87 as is stated 
in the [Epistie] to the Galatians. He who is under the tyranny 
of "the prince of this world 3 ' 88 through deliberate sin is also 
ruled over by sin: therefore we are bidden by Paul no longer to 
submit ourselves to "sin" which desires to "reign" over us; and 

79 Gen. 1:3. so Matt 6:10; Luke 11:2. 

8i Luke 17:20, 21. 8 2 Deut. 30:14; c Rom. 10:8. 

S3 John 14:23. 84 Cf. John 1:1, 14. 

85 I Cor. i :30. 86 Ignatius, Ephesians, 19. 

87 Gal. 1:4. ss Ignatius, Ephesians^ 19. 
A.a 19 



ORIGEN 

indeed we are commanded in these words: "Let not sin there- 
fore reign in our mortal body, that we should obey the lusts 
thereof." 89 

2. But some one will say with regard to these two petitions, 
that is to say, "Hallowed be thy name" and "Thy kingdom 
come/' 90 that if he who prays prays in order to be heard, and is 
in fact at some time heard, it is evident that, in accordance with 
what has been said above, "the name" of God will "be hal- 
lowed" at some time for some one, for whom also "the kingdom" 
of God will be present. But if these things come about for him, 
how shall he still fittingly pray concerning things that are pre- 
sent already as if they were not present, saying, "Hallowed be 
thy name; Thy kingdom come"? The reply to this must be as 
follows. He who prays to obtain "the word of knowledge" and 
"the word of wisdom" 91 will always fittingly pray for these 
things, for he will always go on receiving more and more 
intuitions of "wisdom" and "knowledge" as his prayers are 
continually heard, howbeit he will "know in part" as much as 
he is able to receive in this present life; but "that which is per- 
fect, doing away that which is in part, shall then be made mani- 
fest when, "face to face," 92 the mind without sense perception 
comes in contact with spiritual realities. Similarly, "that which 
is perfect" in the "hallowing" of the "name" of God for each 
of us and in the coming of his "kingdom" cannot be, unless 
there "come" also "that which is perfect" 93 as concerning 
"knowledge" and "wisdom," 94 and, it may be, the other virtues 
also. And we go on our journey "unto perfection," 95 if "stretch- 
ing forward to the things which are before" we "forget the 
things which are behind." 96 As we advance unceasingly "the 
kingdom of God" that is in us 97 will reach its highest point, when 
that which was spoken by the apostle is fulfilled, that Christ, 
when all enemies "have been subjected unto him," shall 
"deliver up the kingdom to God, even the Father, that God 
may be all in all." 98 Therefore, "praying without ceasing," 99 
with a disposition of the mind that is being deified by the Word, 
let us say to "our Father which is in heaven, Hallowed be thy 
name; Thy kingdom come." 1 

3. Moreover, concerning "the kingdom" of God this distinc- 

89 Rom. 6:12. *> Matt. 6:9; Luke 11:2. 91 I Cor. 12:8. 

92 I Cor. 13:9, 10, 12, 53 I Cor. 13:10. 94 I Cor. 12:8. 

95 Heb. 6:1. 96 Phil. 3:13. 

97 Cf. Luke 17:21. 98 I Cor. 15:23-25, 28. 

99 I Thess. 5:17. i Matt. 6:9, 10. 



ON PRAYER 291 

tion must also be made, that, as there is no "fellowship" be- 
tween "righteousness and iniquity/ 3 and no "communion" 
between "light and darkness/ 3 nor any "concord 33 between 
"Christ and Beliar/' 2 so the kingdom of God cannot co-exist 
with the kingdom of evil. If therefore it is our will to be under 
the reign of God, "let not sin 35 in any wise "reign in" our 
"mortal body," 3 neither let us obey its commandments, when 
it urges our soul to do "the works of the flesh" 4 and things that 
are alien from God. Rather, "mortifying the members which 
are upon the earth," 5 let us bring forth "the fruits of the 
Spirit, 336 so that the "Lord 33 may "walk in" 7 us as in a spiritual 
"garden, 338 reigning alone over us with his Christ, "sitting 33 in 
us "at the right hand of 33 that spiritual "power 339 which we pray 
to receive, and seated "until 33 all his "enemies 33 within us be- 
come "the footstool of 33 his "feet, 3310 and "all rule and authority 
and power 33 is "abolished 35 1 1 from us. For it is possible that these 
things should come to pass for each of us, and that the "last 
enemy 33 should be "abolished, even death, 3312 so that in our 
case also it may be said by Christ, "O death, where is thy sting? 
O Hades, where is thy victory? 3313 Even now therefore let our 
"corruptible put on 33 sanctification in holiness and all purity and 
"incorruption, and 33 let "the mortal 3 ' 14 clothe itself, when 
"death 33 has been ''abolished," 12 with the Father's "im- 
mortality, 3314 so that we may be reigned over by God and even 
now share in the good things of "regeneration 3315 and 
resurrection. 

THY WILL BE DONE, AS DST HEAVEN, SO ON EARTH 

(Chapter XXVI) 

XXVI, i. "Thy will be done, as in heaven, so on earth." 16 
Luke passes over these words in silence, and after "Thy kingdom 
come 33 places "Give us day by day our daily bread. 3317 There- 
fore let us examine the words cited above, as found in Matthew 
alone, agreeably with preceding context. Let us who pray, 
being still "on earth, 3 ' and understanding that "the will 33 of 
God is "done in heaven 33 by all those who dwell 18 in heaven, 
pray that "the will 33 of God may be "done 37 in all things by us 

2 II Cor. 6:14, 15. 3 Rom. 6:12. 4 Gal. 5:19. 

5 Col. 3:5. 6 Gal. 5:22. 7 II Cor. 6:16. 

8 Cf. Gen. 3:8. ^ Gf. Matt. 26:64; Mark 14:62; Luke 22:69. 

10 Ps. 110:1. 11 I Cor. 15:24. * 2 I Cor. 15:26. 

13 I Cor. 15:55. i 4 I Cor. 15:53. " Cf. Matt. 19:28. 

16 Matt. 6: 10. 17 Luke 1 1:2, 3. 18 rot? 



292 ORIGEN 

also "on earth" even as it is by them: which things will come to 
pass if we do nothing contrary to his "will." But whenever "the 
will" of God is accomplished by us who are "on earth as it" in 
fact is "in heaven/' we are made like unto those in heaven, 
inasmuch as we "bear" as they do "the image of the heavenly," 19 
and shall "inherit the kingdom" of heaven, 20 while those who 
come after us "on earth" will pray to be made like unto us who 
are "in heaven." 

2. But the words "as in heaven, so on earth," to be found in 
Matthew alone, can be taken with all three clauses, with the 
result that we are commanded thus to say in the prayer: "Hal- 
lowed be thy name, as in heaven, so on earth; Thy kingdom 
come, as in heaven, so on earth; Thy will be done, as in heaven, 
so on earth." For "the name" of God has been "hallowed" by 
those "in heaven," and "the kingdom" of God has come for 
them, and "the will" of God has been "done" in them: all these 
things are lacking to us who are "on earth," yet they can become 
ours as we make ourselves worthy to gain the hearing of God 
concerning them all. 

3. But, with reference to "Thy will be done, as in heaven, so 
on earth," some one may ask as follows: How has "the will" of 
God been "done in heaven," where there are "the spiritual 
hosts of wickedness," 21 whence it comes to pass that "the sword" 
of God shall be "filled with blood" even "in heaven" 22 ? If we 
pray that "the will" of God be "done on earth as" it is done "in 
heaven," perhaps we may without knowing it pray that these 
opposing forces may remain "on earth," to which they came 
from "heaven"; for there are many evil things "on earth" be- 
cause of "the" victorious "spiritual hosts of wickedness" 21 which 
are "in the heavenly places." Anyone, however, will easily re- 
solve the question by allegorizing "heaven," and saying that it 
is Christ, and that the Church is "earth" (for who is so worthy 
to be "the throne of God" as Christ? and what is "the footstool 
of his feet" 23 equally with the Church?) ; and that every member 
of the Church ought to pray that he may so achieve 24 "the" 
Father's "will" as Christ achieved 24 it, who came to "do the 
will" 25 of his Father and "accomplished" 25 * it in its entirety. 
For it is possible by being "joined unto" him to become "one 
spirit" 26 with him, in this way achieving 24 "the will," in order 
that "as" it has been accomplished "in heaven," so it may also 

I Cor. 15:49. 20 Gf. Matt. 25:34. 21 Eph. 6:12. 

22 Isa. 34:5. 23 Matt. 5:34, 35. 24 See note. 

25 John 4:34. 25* Gf. John 174. 26 I Cor. 6:17. 



ON PRAYER 293 

be accomplished "on earth." For, according to Paul, "he that is 
joined unto the Lord is one spirit." 26 And I think that this 
interpretation will not be lightly dismissed by anyone who pays 
careful attention to it. 

4. But an objector to it will quote the saying of the Lord after 
the resurrection to "the eleven disciples," to be found at the 
close of this Gospel: "All authority hath been given to me as in 
heaven so also on earth." 27 For having "authority" over the 
things "in heaven," he says that there has been added authority 
"on earth," the things in heaven having been formerly en- 
lightened by the Word, but at "the end of the world" 28 the 
things "on earth" also will imitate the perfect state of the things 
"in heaven" over which the Saviour received "authority," 
Therefore, as it were, by means of prayer he wishes to take as his 
fellow workers before the Father those who are being "made 
disciples" by him, in order that he may bring the things "on 
earth" (in like manner as the things "in heaven" which have 
been subjected to truth and the Word), when they are emended 
by the "authority," which he received "as in heaven so" also 
"on earth," to the blessed end that awaits whatsoever has been 
placed under his authority. But he who maintains that the 
Saviour is "heaven" and the Church "earth," alleging that "the 
firstborn of all creation," 29 on whom the Father rests as on a 
throne, is "heaven," would find that the "man" whom he put 
on, when he had fitted him for that power by having "humbled 
himself" and "becoming obedient unto death," 30 said after the 
resurrection, "All authority hath been given unto me as in 
heaven so also on earth," 31 the "man" as Saviour having re- 
ceived "authority" over the things "in heaven," as things that 
appertain to "the only begotten," 32 in order that he may share 
them with him, being mingled with his deity and united with 
him. 

5. It still remains to resolve the second difficulty put forward, 
namely, how "the will" of God is "in heaven," when there are 
"the spiritual hosts of wickedness in the heavenly places" 33 
wrestling against those "on earth." The question may be re- 
solved in this way. It is not because of place but of choice that 
he who is still "on earth" has his "citizenship in heaven," 34 
"lays up treasure in heaven," 35 has his heart "in heaven, bears 
the image of the heavenly," 36 and "is" no longer "of the 

27 Matt 28:16, 18. 28 Matt 28:20. & Col. 1:15. 3 Phil. 2:8. 
3i Matt 28:18. 32 John 1:14, etc. 33 Eph. 6:12. 34 Phil. 3:20. 

35 Matt. 6:20; cf. Luke 12:33. 3<i I Cor. 15:49- 



294 ORIGEN 

earth" 37 nor "of the world" 38 below, but of heaven and of the 
heavenly world that is "better" 39 than this one. Similarly, "the 
spiritual hosts of wickedness" that still reside "in the heavenly 
places," 39a having their "citizenship 3513 on earth," and, by the 
evil designs wherewith they wrestle against men, "laying up 
treasure on earth," 40 "bearing the image of the earthy," 40a such 
as he who "was first formed by the Lord, having been made for 
the angels to play with," 41 are not heavenly, nor do they dwell 
"in heaven" because of their evil disposition. When, therefore, 
it is said, "Thy will be done, as in heaven, so on earth," 42 it is 
not to be reckoned that they are "in heaven," since they have 
fallen in mind with him who "fell from heaven" after the man- 
ner of "Hghtning." 43 

6. And perhaps when our Saviour says that we ought to pray 
that "the will" of the Father be "done, as in heaven," so in like 
manner "on earth," he is not in any way bidding prayers to be 
made for those who are in a place "on earth," in order that they 
are to be made like unto those who are in a heavenly place; but 
his command to pray arises from his desire that all the things 
"on earth," that is to say, inferior things, suited to those of the 
earth, should be made like unto better things, that have their 
"citizenship in heaven," 44 that is, to all things that have become 
"heaven." For he who sins, wheresoever he may be, is "earth," 45 
and, unless he repent, will be returning somehow to his kindred 
[earth]. 46 But "he that doeth the will of God 47 and does not 
disobey the saving spiritual laws is "heaven." If, therefore, we 
are still "earth" because of sin, let us pray that the "will" of 
God may extend to us also for our correction, in like manner as 
it reached those before us who became "heaven" or were 
"heaven." And if we are reckoned by God not as "earth" but as 
already "heaven," let us make our request that the "will" of 
God may be fulfilled "on earth" (I mean, persons of bad char- 
acter) in like manner as it is "in heaven," for the heaven-making 
(if I may use the expression) of earth, so that there may no 
longer be any "earth," but all things may become "heaven." 
For if, according to this interpretation, the "will" of God is so 
"done on earth as in heaven," the earth will not remain earth. 
To take a clearer example. If the "will" of God were to be 

37 John 3:31. 38 John 15:19. 39 Gf. Heb. 11:16. 

39* Eph. 6:2. 39b phn. 3:20. 40 Matt. 6:19. 

4** I Cor. 15:49. 4i Job 40:19 (LXX). 42 Matt. 6:10. 

43 Luke 10:18. 44 Phil. 3:2O . 

45 Adopting a conjecture of Bentley. 46 Cf. Gen. 3:19. 4? I John 2:17. 



ON PRAYER 295 

"done 55 for the licentious as it had been "done" for the tem- 
perate, the licentious will be temperate; or, if the "will" of God 
were so to be "done" for the unjust as it had been "done 35 for 
the just, the unjust will be just. Therefore, if the "will" of God 
is "done on earth as in heaven," we shall all be "heaven": for 
"the flesh," which does "not profit," 4 ' "and blood," which is 
akin to it, "cannot inherit the kingdom of God," 49 but they 
would be said to inherit it, were they to change from flesh and 
earth and dust 50 and blood to the heavenly substance. 

GIVE US THIS DAY OUR DAILY BREAD 

(Chapter XXVII) 

XXVII, i. "Give us this day our daily bread," 51 or, as Luke 
has it, "Give us day by day our daily bread." 52 Since some sup- 
pose that we are told to pray concerning material 53 bread, it is 
right to refute here their false opinion and to establish the truth 
concerning "the daily bread." We must therefore say this to 
them. How can he, who tells us that we ought to ask for 
"heavenly things" and "great things," 54 forget as it were in 
their case his own teaching and command them to address to 
the Father an intercession concerning an "earthly" and "small 
thing," seeing that the bread that is distributed for our flesh is 
not "heavenly" neither is it a "great" request to pray con- 
cerning it? 

2. But we, following him as Teacher, will quote at some 
length the teaching he gives us concerning bread. He says in the 
Gospel according to John to them who had "come to Caper- 
naum" to "seek" him 55 : "Verily, verily, I say unto you, Ye 
seek me, not because ye saw signs, but because ye ate of the 
loaves, and were filled." 56 For he who "eats of the loaves" that 
were blessed by Jesus, and is filled with them, "seeks" rather to 
comprehend more perfectly 57 the Son of God, and hastens unto 
him. Therefore, well does he command them, saying: "Work 
not for the meat which perisheth, but for the meat which 
abideth unto eternal life, which the Son of man shall give unto 
you." 58 Whereupon, when those who heard him inquired, say- 
ing, "What must we do, that we may work the works of God? 
Jesus answered and said unto them, This is the work of God, 

48 John 6:63. 49 I Cor. 15:50. Gf. Gen. 2:7. 

5i Matt. 6:1 1. 52 Luke 1 1 13. 53 Lit. "bodily." 

54 See II, 2. 55 John 6:24. 56 John 6:26. 

57 Lit. "exactly," "accurately.*' 58 John 6:27. 



296 ORIGEN 

that ye believe on him whom he hath sent." 59 Now, "God sent 
his word, and healed them 3 ' 60 (as it is written in Psalms), that is 
to say, those who had been sick: they who believe on that Word 
"work the works of God," which are "meat abiding unto 
eternal life." 61 And "my Father," says he, "giveth you the true 
bread out of heaven. For the bread of God is that which cometh 
down out of heaven, and giveth life unto the world." 62 Now, 
"true bread" is that which nourishes "the" true "man," who 
has been "made in the image of God," 63 and he who is nour- 
ished with it also becomes "after the likeness" 64 of the Creator. 
But what is more nourishing to the soul than the Word, and 
what is more precious to the mind of him who makes room for it 
than the W T isdom of God? And what is more appropriate to the 
rational soul than truth? 

3. But if anyone offer an objection to this and say that he 
would not have taught us to ask for "the daily bread" as if for 
some other bread, let such a one observe 65 that in the Gospel 
according to John also he speaks in one place of it as some other 
than he, and in another place that he himself is the bread; of 
some other ? as follows: "Moses gave you the bread out of 
heaven, not the true" bread, "but my Father giveth you the 
true bread out of heaven" 66 ; of himself, he says to those who 
"said" to him, "Evermore give us this bread, I am the bread of 
life, he that cometh to me shall not hunger, and he that believ- 
eth on me shall never thirst." 67 And a little further on: "I am 
the living bread which came down out of heaven: if any man 
eat of this bread, he shall live for ever: yea and the bread which 
I will give is my flesh, which I will give for the life of the 
world." 68 

4. Since every kind of food is called "bread" in Scripture (as 
is evident from what is written concerning Moses: "He did not 
eat bread forty days and did not drink water" 69 ), the Word 
which nourishes is varied and diverse, for not all are able to be 
nourished by the solidity and vigorous force of the divine 
teachings. Therefore, desiring to command a disciplined 70 diet 
adapted to those who are more perfect, he says, "The bread 
which I will give is my flesh, which I will give for the life of the 
world." 71 And a little further on: "Except ye eat the flesh of the 

5 $ John 6:28, 529. 60 Ps. 107:20. 6i John 6:28, 27. 

62 John 6:32, 33. 63 Gen. 1:26, 27; cf. Col. 3:9, 10. 

<w Gen. 1:26. 65 Lit. "hear." 

66 John 6:32. 67 John 6:34, 35- 68 J onn 6:51. 

69 Deut. 9:9. 70 Lit. "athletic.* 5 7i John 6:51. 



ON PRAYER 297 

Son of man and drink his blood, ye have not life in yourselves. 
He that eateth my flesh and drinketh my blood hath eternal 
life; and I will raise him up at the last day. For my flesh is meat 
indeed, and my blood is drink indeed. He that eateth my flesh 
and drinketh my blood abideth in me, and I in him. As the 
living Father sent me, and I live because of the Father; so he 
that eateth me, he also shall live because of me." 72 This is the 
"true meat, the flesh" of Christ, which being the "Word" hath 
"become flesh," as it is said, "the Word became flesh." 73 When 
we [ate and 74 ] drank him, "he also dwelt among us." But when- 
ever he is "distributed," 74a then is fulfilled: "we beheld his 
glory." 73 "This is the bread which came down out of heaven: 
not as the fathers did eat, and died: he that eateth this bread 
shall live for ever." 75 

5. Paul, speaking to the Corinthians as to "babes" and 
"walking after the manner of men," says, "I fed you with milk, 
not with meat; for ye were not able" to bear it: "nay, not even 
now are ye able; for ye are yet carnal" 76 ; and in the [Epistle] to 
the Hebrews: "And ye are become such as have need of milk, 
not of solid food. For everyone that partaketh of milk is without 
experience of the word of righteousness; for he is a babe. But 
solid food is for full-grown men, even those who by reason of use 
have their senses exercised to discern good and evil." 77 And I 
think that the words "One man hath faith to eat all things: but 
he that is weak eateth herbs" 78 were not said by him prin- 
cipally concerning bodily nourishment, but concerning the 
words of God that nourish the soul: the most believing and per- 
fect man being able to partake of all things (whom he indicates 
in the words "one man hath faith to eat all things"), the weaker 
and less perfect being content with simpler teachings which do 
not produce in him full vigour (and this person he means to 
point out when he says "but he that is weak eateth herbs"). 

6. And I think that the saying of Solomon in Proverbs teaches 
us that he who cannot receive the stronger and more important 
points of doctrine because of his simplicity (but not, however, 
holding erroneous opinions), is to be preferred to him who 
though more skilful and quick-sighted and giving greater 
thought to things, yet fails to see clearly what concerns the 
peace and harmony of the whole. His saying is as follows: 

72 John 6:53-57. 73 John 1 114. 

74 Supplied in the text by Koetschau. w* John 6: i z. 

75 John 6:58. 7 I Cor. 3:1-3. 77 Heb. 5:12-14. 
78 Rom. 14:2. 



ORIGEN 

"Better a dinner of herbs where friendship and grace are than 
a stalled ox and hatred therewith." 79 Certainly, we have often 
accepted a private and simpler entertainment served with a good 
conscience, when we were the guests of those who could not 
offer us more, preferably to high-flown words "exalted against 
the knowledge of God," 80 which with much persuasiveness pro- 
claim a doctrine foreign to the Father of our Lord Jesus who has 
given "the law" and "the prophets." 81 Therefore, in order that 
we may not be sick of soul through lack of nourishment, nor 
"die to" 82 God because of "a famine" of "the word of the 
Lord," 83 let us ask from the Father "the living bread," 84 which 
is the same as "the daily" 85 [bread], obeying our Saviour as 
teacher, putting our faith in him, and living more wisely. 86 

The word emovcrios 

7. We must now consider what is the meaning of "daily" 
(epiouszon). And first, it ought to be known that this word 
epiousios is not employed by any of the Greeks or learned writers, 
nor is it in common use among ordinary folk; but it seems likely 
to have been coined by the evangelists. At any rate, Matthew 
and Luke are agreed about it, both using it with no difference. 
The translators of the Hebrew [Scriptures] have done the same 
kind of thing in other cases. For example, what Greek ever used 
the words enotizou* 1 or akoutieis** instead of "receive into the 
ears" or "shall make to hear" respectively? There is a word 
similar to epiousion, in the writings of Moses, spoken by God: 
"And ye shall be unto me a peculiar [periousios~\ people." 90 And 
it seems to me that each of the two words is derived from ousia, 
the one meaning the bread that comes together into substance, 
the other indicating the people dwelling around substance and 
partaking of it. 

8. The word "substance" (ousid) in its proper sense is com- 
monly used of incorporeal things by those who maintain that 
the reality of incorporeal things is primary, such things having 
stable existence, not admitting of addition nor suffering diminu- 
tion. (For this is the characteristic of bodies that they are sus- 
ceptible of increase and wasting because they are in a state of 
flux and need a sustaining force to come upon them and nour- 
ish them: if at a given time they receive more than they lose, 

79 Prov. 15:17. 8 II Cor. 10:5. 8i Matt. 5:17. 82 Rom. 14:8. 

83 Amos8:n. 84j hn6:5i. 85 Matt. 6:11; Luke 11:3. 

86 Sefr^Ttpw, 87 Cf. Job 33:1, 31; 34:16; 37:14; Isa. i :2. 

8 Ps. 50:10 (LXX): see note. so Ex. 19:6, 5. 



ON PRAYER 299 

there is an increase; but, if less, a decrease. Sometimes it may 
happen that because nothing at all comes upon them they are 
in a state of absolute decrease, so to speak.) But those who hold 
that the reality of incorporeal things is secondary and that of 
corporeal things is primary, define substance as follows. Sub- 
stance is the prime matter of existents, and the source of exis- 
tents; the matter of bodies, and the source of bodies; of things 
named, and the source of things named; or it is the first sub- 
strate, without quality, or the antecedent of existents; or that 
which receives all changes or alterations but is itself subject to 
no alteration according to the proper notion of the term; or else 
that which persists through all alteration or change. For such 
people substance is without quality or characteristic form 
according to the proper notion of the term, and has no 
determined size, but as a suitable place, so to speak, is inherent 
in every quality. They formally define as qualities energies and 
actions in which it has happened that there are movements and 
stationary conditions; they say that substance according to the 
proper notion of the term does not partake of any of these, but 
that it is always inseparable from some one of them, and is none 
the less affected by and receptive of every expression of activity, 
according as that acts or changes. For the tension that accom- 
panies substance and permeates it in every part is the cause of 
every quality and of whatever adaptations of it there may be. 
They say that substance is in every part subject to change and 
divisible, and that any substance may be compounded with any 
other, and still form a unity. 

9. Since in our discussion of the word "substance" (ousia), 
necessary because of the terms "daily (epiousios) bread" and 
"peculiar (periousios) people," we have shown that the different 
meanings of ousia are to be distinguished, and since in the pre- 
ceding discussion we saw that the "bread" for which we are to 
ask is "spiritual", we must needs form a conception of the ousia 
which is akin to that of the "bread." The bodily bread which is 
distributed for the body of him who is nourished thereby passes 
into his "substance." Similarly, "the living bread" which has 
"come down out of heaven," 91 being distributed for the mind 
and the soul, imparts a share of its peculiar power to him who 
has willingly accepted the nourishment that comes from it: and 
thus the bread which we ask for will be epiousios. And again, 
according to the quality of the food, whether it be "solid" and 
adapted to athletes, or of a milky or herbal kind, he who is 

91 John 6:51, 



3OO ORIGEN 

nourished acquires different forces, so also it follows that, when 
the word of God is given either as "milk" suitably for "babes/' 
or as "herbs" suitably for them that are "weak," 92 or as "flesh" 93 
seasonably for those who are contesting, each of those who are 
nourished, in proportion as he has offered himself to the word, 
can accomplish this or that thing, or becomes such or such a 
person. There is, however, so-called food which is harmful, an- 
other kind which produces disease, and yet another which can- 
not be given at all: and all these may be transferred by analogy 
to the different kinds of so-called teachings regarded as nourish- 
ing. Therefore epiousios bread is that which is best adapted to the 
reasonable nature and akin to it in its very substance: it pro- 
vides at once health and vigour and strength to the soul and 
imparts a share of its own immortality (for the word of God is 
immortal) to him who eats of it. 

10. This epiousios bread seems to me to have been called in 
Scripture by another name, "the tree of life," to which he who 
"puts forth his hand, and takes" of it, "shall live for ever." 94 
And by a third name this "tree" is called the wisdom of God by 
Solomon, in these words: "She is a tree of life to all them that 
lay hold upon her, and is safe for them that stay themselves as 
upon the Lord." 95 And since the angels also are nourished by 
the wisdom of God, and from the contemplation of truth and 
wisdom receive strength to carry out their special tasks, it is said 
in Psalms that the angels also are nourished, and that the men 
of God who are called Hebrews share this food with the angels, 
and so to speak feast together with them. Such a statement is 
"Man did eat angels* food." 96 Our mind is not so poverty- 
stricken as to think that the angels always partake of and are 
nourished by some such bodily food as we are told came down 
from heaven upon those who had gone forth out of Egypt, 97 or 
that this was the bread which the Hebrews partook of with the 
angels, who are the "ministering spirits" 98 of God. 

n. As we discuss the epiousios bread and the tree of life and 
the wisdom of God and the food that men and angels had in 
common, it is not out of place to pay attention also to the "three 
men" of whom Genesis writes, who turned in and lodged with 
Abraham and partook of "three measures of fine flour kneaded" 
for the "making" of "cakes baked in the ashes." 99 Perhaps this 
is to be taken quite figuratively: for the saints are able to partake 

92 Cf. Heb. 5:12-14; Rom. 14:2. 93 John 6:51. 

94 Gen. 2:9; 3:22. 95 Prov. 3:18. 96 p s . 78:25. 

97 Ex. 16:12-16. 98 Heb. 1:14. 99 Gen. 18:2-6. 



ON PRAYER 3OI 

on occasion of spiritual and reasonable food not only in com- 
pany with men but also with diviner powers, either for their 
own benefit or in order to display what great nourishment they 
are able to procure for themselves; and angels are glad and are 
nourished by such a display, and they become the more ready 
to co-operate in every way and in the sequel to conspire for 
further and greater understanding on the part of him who glad- 
dens and, so to speak, nourishes them with the nutriment of 
teachings formerly prepared. 1 And it is not to be wondered at 
if a man feeds angels, for indeed even Christ acknowledges that 
he "stands at the door and knocks," so that he may "come in" 
to him who has "opened" it for him and "sup with him" 2 of the 
things that he has; afterwards he will share what is his own with 
him who has first entertained, according to his ability., the Son 
of God. 

12. He who partakes of the epiousios "bread strengthens" his 
"heart" 3 and becomes a son of God; but he who participates in 
"the dragon" is none other than "the Ethiopian" 4 spiritually, 
himself changed into a serpent because of the toils of the dragon, 5 
so that, even when he says he wishes "to be baptized," 6 he hears 
the reproach of the Word against him, "Serpents,, 7 offspring of 
vipers, who warned you to flee from the wrath to come?" 8 And 
David says this concerning the body of the dragon that was 
feasted upon by the Ethiopians: "Thou brakest the heads of the 
dragons upon the water: thou didst smite the head of the dragon 
in pieces 9 ; thou g^vest him to be meat to the peoples, the 
Ethiopians." 10 And if it is not incongruous, since the Son of God 
subsists substantially, and the adversary 11 also subsists, that 
either of them should be the food of this or that, why should we 
hesitate to admit, in the case of all powers greater or inferior and 
in the case of man, that every one of us can be nourished by 
them all? For example, when "Peter" was about to have fellow- 
ship with the "centurion Cornelius" and those who gathered 
together with him "in Gaesarea," and afterwards to impart of 
the words of God "to the Gentiles also," he saw the "vessel let 
down by four corners from heaven, in which" were "all manner 
of fourfooted beasts and creeping things and beasts of the earth"; 

* Text emended by Delarue. 2 Rev. 3:20. 

3 Ps. 104:15; cf. James 5:8; I Thess. 3:13. 4 p s . 73:13, 14 (LXX). 

s Cf. Rev. 12:9. 6 Luke 3:7. 

7 Matt. 23:33. 8 Matt. 3:7; Luke 3:7. 

9 This clause is found in Codex H (LXX). *o Ps. 73:13, 14 (LXX). 
n Cf. Zechu 3:1. 



302 ORIGEN 

and when, having been bidden to "rise" and "kill and eat," he 
excused himself, saying, Thou knowest "that never hath anything 
common or unclean entered into my mouth/' he was com- 
manded "not to call any man common or unclean/ 3 in that 
what was "cleansed" by God ought "not" to be "made com- 
mon" by Peter. For the saying is: "What God hath cleansed, 
make not thou common." Therefore the clean and unclean 
meats according to the law of Moses, distinguished under the 
names of several animals, and bearing an analogy to the dif- 
ferent characters of creatures of reason, teach us that some are 
nourishing for us, while others are the opposite, until "God," 
having "cleansed" 12 them, makes them all nourishing, even 
those of "every kind." ^ 

Today 

13. This being so, and there being such a variety of meats, 
the one that surpasses all that have been named is the epiousios 
bread, concerning which we ought to pray that we may be 
deemed worthy of it, and by feeding on "God the Word" who 
was "in the beginning with God" 14 may be deified. But some- 
one will say that epiousios is formed from epienai, 1 5 so that we are 
bidden to ask for the bread appropriate to the coming age, in 
order that God by anticipation may give us it now, with the re- 
sult that what is to be given tomorrow, so to speak, should be 
given us "today," "today" signifying the present age, and "to- 
morrow" the coming age. But the former interpretation 16 being 
in my judgment the better, let us consider the meaning of the 
"today" as it is found in the passage in Matthew, or the "day by 
day" which is written in Luke. It is a frequent custom in the 
Scriptures to call the whole age "today," as for example in the 
words: "He is the father of the Moabites unto this day," 17 and 
"He is the father of the Ammonites unto this day," 18 and "This 
saying was spread abroad among the Jews until this day," 19 and 
in the Psalms, "Today if ye shall hear his voice harden not your 
hearts." 20 And in Joshua there is a very clear instance of this 
manner of speech: "Depart not from the Lord this day." 21 And 
if all this age is "today," perhaps the past age is "yesterday." 
This usage occurs in my opinion in Psalms, and in Paul in the 

12 Acts 10:1, 9, 11-15, 24, 34, 45; 11:8, 9. Matt. 13:47. 

14 John 1:1. is i.e., "to come close after.'* 

16 I.e., deriving it from ousia. " Gen. 19:37. 

is Gen. 19:38. 15 Matt. 28:15. 

20 p s . 95:7, 8. 21 Cf. Josh. 22:16, 18. 



ON PRAYER 303 

Epistle to the Hebrews: in Psalms thus, "A thousand years in 
thy sight are but as yesterday, which is past" 22 (this is perhaps the 
famous period of a thousand years, which is likened to "yester- 
day 35 as distinct from "today"); and in the apostle it is written, 
"Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today, yea and for 
ever." 23 And there is nothing wonderful in the fact that with 
God the whole age is reckoned as the space of one of our days: 
and in my view, as even less. 

14. And we have to consider if the words written offcasts 
or solemn assemblies that take place according to "days" or 
"months" or "seasons" or "years" 24 are to be referred to ages. 
For if "the law" has "a shadow of the things to come," 25 it must 
needs be that the many sabbaths are a "shadow" of so many 
days and that the new moons come round in intervals of time, 
being the result of the conjunction of some moon or other with 
a certain sun. Now if the "first month" and the "tenth" day 
"until the fourteenth" and the feast of unleavened bread from 
"the fourteenth until the one and twentieth" 26 contain "a 
shadow of things to come," 25 "who is wise" 27 and so great "a 
friend" toward God 28 as to perceive the "first" of many months, 
and the "tenth day" of it, and so forth? What ought I to say of 
the feast of the "seven weeks" 29 and of "the seventh month" 30 (of 
which the new moon is a day "of trumpets," but "on the tenth, 
a day of atonement" 31 ) things known to God alone who has 
laid down laws concerning them? And who has so entered into 
"the mind of Christ" 32 that he can understand the seven years 
of the freedom of the Hebrew servants and "the release" of 
debts and the relief from tillage of the Holy Land? 33 And there 
is also what is called the Jubile over and above the feast of seven 
years, 34 but what it is clearly or what are the true laws to be ful- 
filled in it no one can even so much as imagine, save he who has 
contemplated the Father's will concerning his ordinances in all 
the ages in accordance with "his unsearchable judgments and 
his ways past finding out." 35 

15. I have often found myself at a loss, when I bring together 
two conflicting apostolic sayings, how it is "the end of the ages" 
in which "once" Jesus "hath been manifested to put away sins," 

22 Ps. 90:4. 23 Heb. 13:8. 24 Gf. Gal. 4:10. 

25 Heb. 10:1. ^ Ex. 12:2, 3, 6, 15, 18. 27 HOS. 14:9. 

28 Cf. James 2:23. Deut. 16:9. 3 Lev. 16:29 etc - 

3i Lev. 23:24, 27. 32 Gf. I Cor. 2:16. 

33 Cf. Ex. 21:2; Lev. 25:4-7, 10-17; Deut. 15:1-3. 

34 Cf. Lev. 25:8 ff.; 27:17 ff. 35 Rom. 11:33. 



304 ORIGEN 

if there are "ages to come" which shall be after this one. His 
sayings are as follows: in the Epistle to the Hebrews, But now 
"once at the end of the ages hath he been manifested to put 
away sins by the sacrifice of himself" 36 ; and in the Epistle to the 
Ephesians, "That in the ages to come he might shew the exceed- 
ing riches of his grace in kindness towards us." 37 If I may offer 
a conjecture on so great a matter, I think that, as the last month 
is the end of the year, after which the beginning of another 
month ensues, so it may be that, since several ages complete as 
it were a year of ages, the present age is "the end," after which 
certain "ages to come" will ensue, of which the age to come is 
the beginning, and in those coming ages God will "shew the 
riches of his grace in kindness": when the greatest sinner, who 
has spoken ill of the Holy Spirit 38 and is under the power of sin 
throughout the present age, will, I know not how, be under 
treatment from beginning to end in the ensuing age that is to 
come. 

1 6. He therefore who sees these things, and perceives in his 
mind a week of ages that he may contemplate a holy sabbath 
rest, 39 and a month of ages, that he may see the holy new moon 
of God, and a year of ages, that he may understand the feasts of 
the year, when "all the males" must appear before "the Lord 
God," 40 and the years proportioned to so large a number of 
ages, that he may comprehend the holy seventh year, and the 
seven weeks of ages, that he may sing the praises of him who has 
laid down laws so great such a one will go on to ask, how can 
he regard lightly the smallest portion of an hour of a day of so 
great an age, and shall he not rather do everything, in order 
that after his preparation here he may be found worthy to attain 
to the epiousios bread in the day that is called "today," and re- 
ceive it also "day by day," it now being clear from the foregoing 
what the "day by day" is? He who prays "today" to God who 
is from infinite to infinite, not only concerning "today," but 
also in some sort concerning "day by day/ 9 will be able to re- 
ceive from him who can bestow "exceeding abundantly above 
all that we ask or think," 41 even if I speak in hyperbole what 
is beyond "things which eye saw not" and beyond "things which 
ear heard not" and beyond things which "entered not into the 
heart of man." 42 

17. It has seemed to me very necessary to discuss these ques- 

3fi Heb. 9:26. 37 Eph. 2:7. 38 Cf. Matt. 12:31. 

39 Cf. Heb. 4:9. 40 De U t. 16:16. 41 Eph. 3:20. 

42 I Cor. 2:9. 



ON PRAYER 305 

tions, in order that a conception may be formed of " today" and 
"day by day," when we pray that the epiousios bread may be 
given us from his Father. Nevertheless, if we examine the "our" 
in the latter work 43 first, when it is said, not, "Give us this day 
our daily bread," 44 but, "Give us day by day our daily bread," 45 
the question must be examined how this "bread" is "ours." 
Certainly the apostle teaches that "whether life, or death, or 
things present, or things to come, all" 46 are the saints'. Con- 
cerning which it is not necessary to speak at present. 

FORGIVE US OUR DEBTS 

(Chapter XXVIII) 

XXVIII, i. "And forgive us our debts, as we also have for- 
given our debtors" 47 ; or, as Luke, "And forgive us our sins; for 
we ourselves also have forgiven 48 every one that is indebted to 
us." 49 Concerning "debts" the apostle also says, "Render to all 
their debts, tribute to whom tribute is due; fear to whom fear; 
custom to whom custom; honour to whom honour; owe no man 
anything save to love one another." 50 We "owe" therefore, 
having certain duties not only in the matter of giving but also 
in gentle speech and in certain particular actions, and we also 
"owe" it to others to have a certain kind of disposition towards 
them. "Owing" these things we either repay them by fulfilling 
what is commanded by the divine law, or by despising the 
wholesome word and failing to repay we remain in "debt." 

2. A similar thing must be observed in our "debts" to the 
brethren, that is to say, to those who have been born again with 
us in Christ according to the word of godliness and share with 
us fathers and mothers. There is also a "debt" to citizens, and 
another, common, "debt" to all men, particularly strangers and 
also those who have attained the age of fathers, 51 and still an- 
other to certain whom it is reasonable to honour as sons or as 
brethren. He therefore who omits to pay "debts" to the 
brethren remains a "debtor" in respect of what he has not done. 
And so, if even we fail in anything that is due from us to men as 
concerning the spirit of kindly wisdom, our "debt" becomes 
greater. Moreover, "we are debtors" in what we owe to our- 
selves in so using the body that we do not waste its strength 

43 I.e., Luke. 44 Matt. 6:1 1. 45 Luke 1 1 -.3. 

46 I Cor. 3:22. 47 Matt. 6:12. 

48 So the text here: but see XVIII, 2. 45> Luke 1 1 14. 

50 Rom. 13:7, 8. 51 Reading text as emended by Klostermanru 

A.C. 20 



306 ORIGEN 

through love of pleasure; and we are debtors to observe this 
care also for the soul, and to show forethought for the acuteness 
of the mind, and for the word, that it may be without sting and 
helpful and in no way "idle." 52 In fact whenever we fail to pay 
what is owing to us by ourselves, our debt becomes heavier. 

3. And above all, since we are the "workmanship" 53 and 
"thing formed" 54 of God that surpasses all else, "we owe" it to 
maintain a certain disposition towards him, and that love which 
is "with all the heart, and with all the strength, and with all the 
mind" 55 ; which things if we do not rightly perform, we remain 
"debtors" to God, sinning towards the Lord. And who in that 
case will pray for us? For "if a man sinning sin against a man, 
they will even pray for him. But if he sin against the Lord, who 
will pray for him?" 56 as Eli says in the first [book] of the King- 
doms. Moreover, since Christ bought us "with his own blood," 57 
"we are debtors," even as every servant is the "debtor" of him 
who bought him for so much a sum of money as was given for 
him. We also incur a debt to "the Holy Spirit," which is paid 
when we do not "grieve" him, "in whom ye were sealed unto 
the day of redemption," 58 and if we do not "grieve" him we 
bear the fruits which are demanded of us, since he is present 
with us and "quickeneth" 59 our soul. And even though we do 
not know precisely, who is "the angel" of each of us who "be- 
holds the face of the Father in heaven," 60 at any rate it is mani- 
fest to each one of us when he reflects upon it that we are 
"debtors" to him also for certain things. And moreover, if we 
are in "a theatre" of "the world and angels and men," 61 we 
ought to know that, as he who is in "a theatre" is a debtor to 
say or do such and such things in the sight of the spectators, 
which if he fails to do he is punished for having insulted the 
whole "house," so also we "owe" to the whole "world, and to" 
all the "angels, and to" the race of "men" those things which, 
if we are willing, we shall learn from wisdom. 

4. But apart from these more general considerations, there 
is a certain "debt" due from a widow for whom the Church pro- 
vides, and another due from a deacon, and another from a 
presbyter, but the "debt" due from a bishop is the heaviest, 
since it is demanded of him by the Saviour of the whole Church, 

52 Matt. 12:36. 53 Eph. 2:10. 54 Rom. 9:20. 

55 Cf. Mark 12:30. 56 I Sam. 2:25. 

57 Cf. Acts 20:28; Rev. 5:9; I Peter i :i8 9 19. 58 Eph. 4:30. 

59 John 6:63; cf. II Cor. 3:6. J Matt. 18:10, 

<si I Cor. 4:9. 



ON PRAYER 307 

and retribution follows if it be not paid. Also, the apostle speaks 
of a certain "debt" common to husband and wife, saying, "Let 
the husband render unto the wife her debt: and likewise the 
wife unto the husband." 62 And he goes on to say, "Defraud ye 
not one another." 63 And what need is there for me to speak, 
when the readers of this book can make up their own reckonings 
from what has been said previously which "debts" if we fail to 
pay we shall be kept in prison, or if we pay shall be set free? 
Howbeit, in life there is not an hour of the night or the day that 
we do not "owe" something. 

5. Now, in "owing" a debt either a man pays or else refuses 
payment. And he can pay during his lifetime, and he can also 
refuse payment. And some indeed "owe no man anything" 64 ; 
while others pay the greater part and owe a little, and others 
again pay a little and owe the greater part. And there may be a 
man who pays up nothing and owes everything. Of course, he 
who pays all, so as to owe nothing, achieves this result at some 
time or another, and he needs a period of grace 65 concerning 
his former debts: which grace can reasonably be obtained by a 
man who has made it his aim to be in the position at a certain 
date of not owing anything which has not been paid when the 
debt falls due. But actual transgressions, being engraved upon 
our reason, become of themselves 66 "the written bond against 
us/' 67 by which we shall be judged, like books testified under 
the hand of all, so to speak, which shall be brought forward 
when "we shall all stand before the judgment-seat" 68 "of Christ; 
that each one may receive the things done in the body, accord- 
ing to what he hath done, whether it be good or bad." 69 As 
concerning these debts it is also said in Proverbs, "Do not give 
thyself for security, thou who respectest thy person: for if thou 
hast not whence to pay, they will take thy bed from under thy 
ribs." ^o 

6. Now, if we "are in debt" to so many, assuredly some "are" 
also "in debt" to us. Some "are in debt" to us as to men, others 
as to citizens, others again as to fathers and some as to sons, and, 
yet again, as wives to husbands or as friends to friends. When- 
ever, therefore, out of our numerous "debtors" some show re- 
missness about paying back what is due to us, we shall act with 
fellow-feeling and not bear malice towards them, remembering 

62 I Cor. 7:3. 63 I Cor. 7:5. 64 Rom. 13:8. 

65 See note. 66 Reading avrai for aSrcu. 

67 Col 2:14. 68 Rom. 14:10. 69 n Cor. 5:10. 

70 Prov. 22:26, 27. 



308 ORIGEN 

our own debts, how often we have failed to pay them, not only 
to men but also to God himself. For when we remember those 
to whom we were in debt yet did not pay, but refused payment 
as the time went on during which we ought to have done this or 
that to our neighbour, we shall be gentler towards those who 
have incurred a debt to us and have not paid what is due: and 
especially will this be so if we do not forget our transgressions 
against God and the "iniquity" we "have spoken on high," 71 
either in ignorance of the truth or in discontent at the misfor- 
tunes which have fallen to our lot. 

7. If we are unwilling to be gentler towards those who have 
incurred a debt with us, we shall suffer what he did who would 
not concede the "hundred pence" to his "fellow-servant. 5 ' 72 
This man, who had himself previously received a concession, 
according to the parable in the Gospel, 73 his master re- 
proached, 74 and exacted from him what had been previously 
conceded, saying to him, C c Thou wicked and slothful servant/ 75 
'shouldest not thou have had mercy on thy fellow-servant, even 
as I had mercy on thee?' 76 Cast ye him into prison, 'till he pay 
all that is due." 5 And then the Lord went on to say, "So shall 
also my heavenly Father do unto you, if ye forgive not every one 
his brother from your hearts. 5 ' 77 Certainly, those who say that 
they repent of the sins they have committed against us must be 
forgiven, even though the debtor does this frequently: for "if, 55 
he says, "thy brother sin against thee seven times in a day, and 
seven times turn, saying, I repent; thou shalt forgive him. 5578 It 
is not we who are harsh towards those who do not repent; 
rather, such persons are wicked to their own hurt: for "he that 
refuseth correction hateth himself." 79 And even in the case of 
such persons, every means must be sought to care for him who 
is so completely perverted that he does not even perceive his 
own wicked deeds, but is drunk with a drunkenness more deadly 
than that of wine that which comes from the darkening power 
of wickedness. 

8. When Luke says, "Forgive us our sins" 80 (since the sins 
arise from our being in debt and not paying), he says the same 
thing as Matthew; but Luke seems not to give room for him who 
wishes to forgive repentant debtors only, saying that it has been 
laid down by the Saviour that we ought in the prayer to add: 

7i Ps. 73:8. 72 Matt. 18:28. Matt. 18:23-35. 

74 Reading ow-tSwa;?: see note. 75 Matt. 25:26. 

76 Matt. 18:33. 77 Matt. 18:34, 35. 78 Luke 17:3, 4. 

79 Prov. 15:32. & Luke 11:4. 



ON PRAYER 309 

"for we ourselves also forgive everyone that is indebted to us/' 80 
Certainly, we all have power "to forgive" the sins committed 
against us: this is clear from the words "for we ourselves also 
forgive everyone that is indebted to us. 5 * 80 But he who is in- 
spired by Jesus, as the apostles were, and can be known "by the 
fruits," 81 as one who has received the Holy Spirit and has be- 
come "spiritual" 82 by being "led by the Spirit" as a "son of 
God" 83 to do everything in accordance with reason such a 
one "forgives" whatever God forgives and "retains" 84 such 
sins as are incurable; and even as the prophets serve God in 
speaking not the things of their own but of the divine will, so 
also he serves him who alone "hath power to forgive/' 85 even 
God. 

9. In the Gospel according to John the following is said con- 
cerning the forgiveness of sins by the apostles: "Receive ye the 
Holy Ghost: whose soever sins ye forgive, they are forgiven 
unto them; whose soever sins ye retain, they are retained." 84 If 
one were to take these words without due consideration, one 
might lay a charge against the apostles for not "forgiving" all, 
in order that sins might "be forgiven" to all, but "retaining the 
sins" of some, so that they are "retained" on their account and 
with God. But it is useful to take an illustration from the Law so 
as to understand the forgiveness of sins that comes from God to 
men through men. The priests according to the Law are pro- 
hibited in the case of certain sins from offering a sacrifice that 
the faults may be forgiven those for whom the sacrifices are 
made. And though the priest has power to offer as concerning 
certain involuntary or voluntary faults, 86 he actually does not 
offer "burnt offering and sin offering" 87 for adultery or volun- 
tary murder or any other more grievous transgression. In like 
manner, therefore, the apostles also, and those likened to the 
apostles, being priests of the "great high priest," 88 having re- 
ceived knowledge of the healing that comes from God, know, 
being taught by the Holy Spirit, concerning what sins they 
ought to offer sacrifices, and when, and in what manner, and 
they understand concerning what sins they ought not to do this. 
EH the priest, for example, learning that his sons Hophni and 
Phinehas were sinning, since he was unable to help them to 
secure forgiveness of their sins, acknowledged in these words the 

si Matt. 7:16, 20. 82 I Cor. 2:15. * 3 Rom. 8:14, 

84 John 20:23. 85 Matt. 9:6. 

86 Adopting an emendation of Koetschau. 87 Ps. 40:6. 

ss Heb. 4:14. 



3IO ORIGEN 

hopelessness of achieving it: "for if a man sinning sin against a 
man, they will even pray for him: but if a man sin against the 
Lord, who will pray for him?" 89 

10. Certain persons, I know not how, arrogating to them- 
selves powers beyond the priestly office, perhaps because they 
have no accurate grasp of the knowledge that a priest should 
possess, boast that they are able to pardon even idolatry and to 
forgive adultery and fornication, on the ground that by means 
of the prayer offered for those who have committed these deeds 
even "the sin unto death" is absolved. For they do not read the 
words: "There is a sin unto death: not concerning this do I say 
that he should make request." 90 And we must not pass over in 
silence that bravest of men, Job, who said as he was offering 
"sacrifice for" his "sons": "It may be that my sons have thought 
evil of God in their mind." 91 For he offered the sacrifice in a 
case where it was doubtful if sins had been committed, and that 
too where the sins had not even reached as far as the lips. 

BRING US NOT INTO TEMPTATION 

(Chapter XXIX) 

XXIX, i. "And bring us not into temptation, but deliver 
us from the evil one." 92 But the words "But deliver us from the 
evil one" are not found in Luke. 93 It is, I think, a question that 
deserves discussion (unless the Saviour commands us to pray 
for the impossible), how we can be bidden, when the whole of 
men's "life on earth is a temptation," 94 to pray that we enter 
"not into temptation." For inasmuch as we are on earth "com- 
passed about with" 95 "the flesh" 96 "that warreth" 97 "against 
the Spirit," 96 "the mind" of which "is enmity against God/' 
and "cannot" in any wise "be subject to the law of God," 98 we 
are "in temptation." 

2. That the whole of human "life upon earth" is "a tempta- 
tion" we learn from Job, as follows: "Is not the life of men upon 
earth a temptation?" 94 ; and from the seventeenth Psalm the 
same thing is indicated in the words: "In thee I shall be 
delivered from temptation." 99 And Paul also writing to the 
Corinthians says that God grants, not that they should not be 

89 I Sam. 2:25. 90 I John 5:16. 91 Job. 1:5. 

92 Matt. 6:13. 93 Luke 11:4. 94 Job. 7:1. 

95 Heb. 5:2, 96 Gal. 5:17. 

97 Cf. James 4:1; I Peter Q:II. 98 Rom. 8:7. 

99 Ps. 17:30 (LXX). 



ON PRAYER 311 

tempted but, that they should "not be tempted" beyond then- 
power, saying, "There hath no temptation taken you but such 
as man can bear: but God is faithful, who will not suffer you to 
be tempted above that ye are able; but will with the temptation 
make also the way of escape that ye may be able to endure it. 5 ' 1 
For whether "the wrestling" 2 is with "the flesh" that "lusteth" 96 
and "warreth" 97 "against the Spirit," 96 or with "the soul of all 
flesh" 3 (which is synonymous with the guiding principle, called 
the heart, which dwells in the body) of whatever kind "the 
wrestling" 4 is for those who are "tempted" with "temptations 
such as man can bear" 5 ; or whether the contests we undergo 
are "against the principalities" and "the powers" and "the 
world-rulers of this darkness" and "the spiritual hosts of wicked- 
ness" and we are as mightily striding and perfectly trained 
athletes, no longer "wrestling against flesh and blood," 4 nor 
proved by "temptations such as man can bear" 5 (for these are 
already "trodden under foot") 6 : in either case we have not been 
delivered from temptation. 

3. How then does the Saviour bid us pray not to enter "into 
temptation," when in some sense God tempts all? For "remem- 
ber," says Judith, not only to the elders of that day but also to 
all those who read her book, "all the things which he did to 
Abraham, and all the things in which he tempted 7 Isaac, and 
all the things which happened to Jacob in Mesopotamia of 
Syria, when he kept the sheep of Laban his mother's brother, 
For the Lord, who scourgeth them who come near unto him to 
admonish them, doth not take vengeance on us as he tried them 
in the fire, to search out their hearts." 8 And David also shows in 
a general way concerning all righteous persons when he says, 
"Many are the tribulations of the righteous" 9 ; and the apostle 
in the Acts, "Through many tribulations we must enter into the 
kingdom of God." 10 

4. And if we do not understand a point which escapes many 
people in connection with praying not to enter "into tempta- 
tion," now is the time to say that the apostles frequently failed 
to be heard when they prayed; for they suffered countless trials 
in their life-time, "in labours more abundantly, in stripes more 
abundantly, in prisons above measure, 11 in deaths oft"; and 
Paul on his own account "of the Jews five times received forty 

i I Car. 10:13. 2 Eph. 6:12. 3 Lev. 17:11. 

4 Eph. 6:12. 5 I Cor. 10:13. 6 Ps - 9 I:I 3- 

7 R.V. "tried." Judith 8:26, 27 (with variants). 

9 Ps. 34:19. 10 Acts 14:22. " The reading also of Codex K. 



312 ORIGEN 

stripes save one, thrice was" he "beaten with rods, once was 55 
he "stoned, thrice" he "suffered shipwreck, a night and a day 
was" he "in the deep," 12 a man "pressed on every side" and 
"perplexed" and "pursued" and "smitten down" 13 ; and he 
confesses that "even unto this present hour we both hunger, and 
thirst, and are naked, and are buffeted, and have no certain 
dwelling-place; and we toil, working with our own hands: being 
reviled, we bless; being persecuted, we endure; being defamed, 
we intreat." 14 Now if the apostles in praying have failed to be 
heard 3 what hope is there for anyone inferior to them of gaining 
the ear of God to his prayer? 

5. The words in the twenty-fifth Psalm, "Examine me, O 
Lord, and prove 15 me; try as by fire my reins and my heart," 16 
might reasonably be supposed by some one who did not grasp 
accurately the meaning of the Saviour's command to be opposed 
to what our Lord taught concerning prayer. But when did any- 
one think that he was outside the range of "temptations such as 
man can bear," 17 in the knowledge that the sum total of them 
had been completed? What season is there, during which any- 
one light-heartedly thinks that he has not to struggle to avoid 
future sin? Is anyone "needy"? Let him take care lest he "steal" 
and "use profanely the name of the Lord." 18 Is he, on the other 
hand, rich? Let him not presume. For "when" he "is full," he 
may "become a liar," and being lifted up "say, Who seeth 
me?" 19 And certainly Paul, "rich in all utterance and all know- 
ledge," 20 was not delivered from the danger of sinning, through 
being on that account "exalted overmuch," but he needed "a 
thorn of Satan buffeting" him, "that" he "should not be exalted 
overmuch." 21 And should anyone be conscious of his own 
superiority and eagerly expect freedom from ills, 22 let him read 
what is stated in the Second Book of Chronicles concerning 
"Hezekiah," who is said to have fallen from "the pride of his 
heart." 2 * 

6. But if, since we have not said more about the poor man, 
anyone should presume that there is no temptation attached to 
poverty, let him know that the plotter plots "to cast down the 
poor and the needy" 24 ; and especially since, as Solomon says, 

12 II Cor. 1 1 :23-25. II Cor. 4:8, 9. w I Cor. 4:1 1-13. 

is Or "tempt." Ps. 26:2. 

i 7 I Cor. 10:13: for reading, see note. 

is Prov. 24:32 (30:9, R.V.). Prov. 24:32 (30:9, R.V.). 

20 I Cor. 1:5. 21 n Cor. 12:7. 

22 Following an emendation of Koetschau. 

23 II Chron. 32:25, 26. 24 Ps. 37:14. 



ON PRAYER 313 

"the poor man submitteth not to threatening." 25 What need is 
there to speak of those who because of material riches, which 
they have failed to administer well, have received the place of 
punishment allotted to the "rich man" in the Gospel, 26 and of 
those who bear their penury ignobly and live in a lower and 
more servile fashion than is "becoming" for "saints/' 27 and so 
have fallen from the heavenly "hope"? 28 Neither are they who 
are between these on either side, riches and poverty, entirely 
freed from sinning because of their moderate possessions. 

7. But a man healthy in body and in good condition sup- 
poses that he is beyond all temptation because of this very- 
health and good condition. To whom else attaches the sin of 
"destroying the temple of God," 29 except it be to those who are 
in good condition and healthy? No one will dare to say what may 
be said on this topic because the matter is evident to all. Has a 
sick man, then, escaped the incitements to "destroy the temple 
of God," 30 seeing that he has at that time full opportunity for 
receiving impure thoughts? What need is there also to speak of 
the other things that trouble him, unless "with all watchfulness" 
he "keep the heart"? 31 For many, when they are overcome by 
misfortunes and do not know how to bear sicknesses bravely, 
have as a result of their sickness suffered damage in the soul 
rather than in the body. And many also in fleeing ignominy 
have been ashamed to bear nobly the name of Christ, and so 
have fallen into eternal shame. 

8. A man thinks that he may safely rest free from temptation 
when he has been glorified among men. But how can the saying, 
"They have received their reward" from "men," 32 be anything 
but a hard one, spoken as it was to those lifted up by the glory 
bestowed upon them by the multitude as for some good thing? 
And how can they fail to be censured by the words: "How can 
ye believe, which receive glory one of another, and the glory 
that cometh from the only God ye seek not?"? 33 And what need 
is there for me to recount the falls through pride of those 
reckoned highborn, and the fawning submission, due to lack of 
savoir-faire, towards their supposed superiors on the part of those 
who are accounted lowborn a submission which separates 
from God those who lacking genuine friendship lay pretence to 

25 Prov. 13:8. 26 Cf. Luke 16:19, 22-24. 

27 Cf. Eph. 5:3. 28 QF. Col. i :$. 

29 I Cor. 3:17. 30 I Cor. 3:17. 

3i Prov. 4:23. 32 Matt 6:2. 
33 John 5:44. 



314 ORIGEN 

the most beautiful thing to be found among men, namely, 
charity? 

9. "The" whole "life," therefore, "of man upon earth is 
temptation," 34 as we have said before. 35 Accordingly let us 
pray to be "delivered" 36 from temptation, not in the sense of 
not being tempted (for that is impossible, especially for those 
"on earth" 37 ) but in the sense of not being overcome when we 
are tempted. In my opinion, he who is overcome in being 
tempted "enters into temptation," 38 being held fast in its 
meshes. These meshes, because of those who were caught in 
them aforetime, the Saviour entered: "Glancing through the 
meshes," as it is said in the Song of Songs, "he replies" to those 
who were caught by them aforetime and who "entered into 
temptation," and "he says" to her who is his bride: "Rise up, 
come, my near one, my fair one, my dove." 39 And I will add the 
following to show that every time is a time of temptation for 
men: not even he who "meditates" on "the law" of God "day 
and night" 40 and exercises himself to fulfil the saying "the 
mouth of the righteous will meditate wisdom," 41 is delivered 
from being tempted. 

10. What need is there also to speak of those who though 
giving themselves up to the study of the divine Scriptures have 
misinterpreted the statements of the Law and the Prophets and 
have given themselves up to godless and impious, or else to 
stupid and ridiculous, doctrines; for it would seem that very 
many who cannot rightly be charged with neglect of these writ- 
ings have nevertheless fallen into this kind of error? And the same 
thing has happened to many in the case also of the apostolic and 
evangelical writings, when in their own folly they invent a Son 
or a Father other than him whom the saints speak of as God and 
conceive of in accordance with the truth. For he who fails to 
think truly concerning God or his Christ has fallen away from 
"the true God" 42 and his only begotten. 43 But him whom his folly 
has invented, supposing him to be Father and Son, he does not 
truly worship. This happens to him because he has failed to 
recognize the "temptation" that lurks in reading the holy 
[Scriptures], neither has he armed himself for a contest which 
was at that very time upon him, nor stood firm. 

11. We ought therefore to pray, not that we may not be 

34 Job. 7:1. 35 Section 2, above. 36 Matt. 6:13. 

37 Matt. 6:10. 38 Matt. 26:41, etc, 39 Song of Songs 2:9, 10. 

40 Ps. 1:2. 4i Prov. 10:31 (for reading, see note). 

42 I John 5:20. 43 John 1:14, etc. 



ON PRAYER 315 

tempted (for that cannot be), but that we may not be encom- 
passed by temptation, a thing that happens to those who are 
held fast by it and overcome. Since, then, outside the prayer it 
is written "not to enter into temptation" 44 (the meaning of 
which is clear enough from what has been said), but in the 
prayer we are to pray to God the Father "bring us not into 
temptation" 45 : it is worth while to see how we may conceive of 
God leading "into temptation" him who did not pray or him 
whose prayer was not heard. For inasmuch as he who is con- 
quered "enters into temptation/' it is incongruous to think that 
God leads anyone "into temptation," in the sense of giving him 
up to be conquered. And the same incongruity remains however 
we interpret the words: "pray not to enter into temptation." 
For if it is an evil to fall "into temptation" a thing we pray 
that we may not suffer it must needs be absurd to think that 
the good God, who "cannot bring forth evil fruit/' 46 encom- 
passes anyone with evil. 

12. In this connection, then, it is useful to quote what is said 
by Paul in the [Epistle] to the Romans, as follows: "Professing 
themselves to be wise, they became fools, and changed the glory 
of the incorruptible God for the likeness of an image of corrupt- 
ible man, and of birds, and fourfooted beasts, and creeping 
things. Wherefore God gave them up in the lusts of their hearts 
unto uncleanness, that their bodies should be dishonoured among 
themselves." 47 And a little further on: "For this cause God 
gave them up unto vile passions: for their women changed the 
natural use into that which is against nature: and likewise also 
the men, leaving the natural use of the woman, burned/' 48 and 
so forth. And again, a little further on: "And even as they re- 
fused to have God in their knowledge, God gave them up unto 
a reprobate mind, to do those things which are not fitting." 49 
All these things, however, must be put to those who divide the 
Godhead, and it must be said to them, since they suppose that 
the good Father of our Lord is other than the God of the Law: 
if the good God leads "into temptation" him whose prayer is not 
answered, and if the Father of the Lord gives up "in the lusts of 
their hearts" those who had previously sinned "unto unclean- 
ness, that their bodies should be dishonoured among them- 
selves/ 5 and if, as they say, having done with judgment and 
punishment, he "gives them up unto vile passions" and "unto a 

44 Luke 22:40 (Matt. 26:41; Mark 14:38). 

45 Matt. 6:13; Luke 1 1 14. 46 Matt 7:18. 

47 Rom. 1:22-24. 48 Rom- 1:26, 27. 49 Rom. 1:28. 



316 ORIGEN 

reprobate mind, to do those things which are not fitting," would 
not those who were not "given up" to them by "God 53 have 
been "in the lusts of their hearts/* and would not those who 
were not "given up" to them by "God" have fallen "into vile 
passions," and would not those who came under this condemna- 
tion fall "into a reprobate mind" apart from being "given up" 
unto it by "God"?so 

13. I know well that these observations will trouble the per- 
sons in question exceedingly, in that they have imagined a God 
other than the creator of heaven and earth because they find 
many such things in the Law and the Prophets and have taken 
offence against him as not good who utters such sentiments. 
Confronted, however, with the difficulties arising out of the 
words: "Bring us not into temptation," because of which we 
quoted the text from the apostle, let us now consider if we can 
find an adequate solution of these contradictions. I verily be- 
lieve that God orders every rational soul with a view to its 
eternal life, and that it always maintains its free will, and of its 
own motion either mounts ever higher and higher until it 
reaches the pinnacle of virtue, or on the contrary descends 
through carelessness to this or that excess of wickedness. When 
a rapid and brief cure causes some to regard lightly, as easily 
cured, the diseases into which they have fallen, so that after 
being restored to health they fall the second time into the same 
condition: in such cases God will with good reason disregard 
their increasing wickedness to a certain point, and even over- 
look it when it has developed in them to such an extent as to be 
incurable, in order that continuance in the evil may cause them 
to take their fill and be glutted with the sin they desire: thus 
they may become conscious of their harmful condition and hate 
w r hat they formerly welcomed, and so when they are healed 
they can possess more securely the health that comes to their 
souls by being healed. So it was once upon a time with "the 
mixed multitude that was among" the children of Israel. They 
"fell a lusting, and the children of Israel also sat down and said, 
Who shall give us flesh to eat? We remember the fish that we 
did eat in Egypt for nought, and the cucumbers, and the 
melons, and the leeks, and the onions, and the garlic: but now 
our soul is dried away; we have nought save this manna to look 
to." 51 Then a little further on it is said: "And Moses heard 
them weeping throughout their families, every man at his 
door." 52 And again a little further on the Lord says to Moses: 
50 Rom. 1:26, 28. 5i Num. 11:4-6. 52 Num. 11:10. 



ON PRAYER 317 

"And thou shalt say unto this people, Sanctify yourselves 
against tomorrow, and ye shall eat flesh. Ye shall not eat one 
day, nor two days, nor five days,nor ten days, nor twenty days; 
for a month of days ye shall eat, until it come out at your nos- 
trils; and it be loathsome unto you; because that ye have rejected 
the Lord which is among you, and have wept before him, 
saying. Why came we forth out of Egypt?" 53 

14. Let us therefore look at this account, to see if it serves you 
with a useful parallel in resolving the difficulty that lies in the 
words "Bring us not into temptation" and in the texts from the 
apostle. "The mixed multitude that was among" the children 
of Israel, having "fallen a lusting, wept, and the children of 
Israel" 54 with them. And it is clear that so long as they had not 
the things that they desired, they could not be satiated with 
them nor cease from their evil state. But the kind and good God, 
in giving them that which they desired, did not wish so to give 
it as to leave in them desire. Therefore it says that they did not 
eat the "flesh one day" 55 (for their evil state would have re- 
mained in a soul inflamed and set on fire by the meat, if they 
had partaken of it for only a little while) : indeed he did not give 
them that which they desired for "two days" alone. But in his 
wish to satiate them with it, he does not give a promise, as it 
were, but rather threatened with his intended gifts him who is 
able to understand, saying, Ye shall spend "not five days" only 
eating "the flesh," not even twee that number, nor even twice 
that number again, but "ye shall eat" for so long a time, eating 
meat for a whole month, until that which ye deemed good, and 
your blameworthy and shameful desire concerning it, "come 
out at your nostrils" with a "loathsome" effect. 56 And [this I 
will do] that ye may have desire no longer when I rid you of life, 
and thus corning forth, as men purified from desire and remem- 
bering through what afflictions you were freed from it, you may 
be able either to fall into it no more, or else, if this should at any 
time come to pass, only after a long lapse of time, when you 
have forgotten what you suffered because of your desire: in 
which case, if you do not take heed to yourselves and receive 
the word that rids you perfectly of every kind of mishap, and 
so fall into evil, and afterwards desire earthly things and again 
ask to receive for the second time your desires, you may then, 
having come to hate that which you did desire, be able to re- 
trace the path towards beauty and that heavenly food, which 
you once despised when you yearned after evil things. 
53 Num. 1 1 : 18-20. 54 Num. 1 1 14. 55 Num. 1 1 : 18, 19. 56 Num. 1 1 ;2O. 



318 ORIGEN 

15. Like sufferings will befall those who having "changed the 
glory of the incorruptible God for the likeness of an image of 
corruptible man, and of birds, and fourfooted beasts, and 
creeping things," are "given up, 55 through abandoning him, "in 
the lusts of their hearts unto uncleanness, that their bodies 
should be dishonoured." 57 By giving it to a lifeless and senseless 
body they have degraded the name of him who has bestowed 
upon all sensible and rational creatures not only the power of 
sense but also that of reasonable sense, and, in the case of some 
also, of perfect and virtuous sense and perception. And with 
good reason such persons are given up by the God they have 
abandoned, being in turn abandoned by him, "unto vile pas- 
sions, receiving that recompense of error which was due," in 
the itch of the pleasure they loved. 58 For "that recompense of 
error which is" their "due" falls to their lot when they are 
"given up unto vile passions" rather than when they are purged 
with the wise fire 59 or made to pay in "prison" every debt up to 
"the last farthing." 60 For when they are "given up" to "vile 
passions," not only those according to nature but also many of 
those that are "against nature," they are defiled and made 
gross by the flesh, so that we might say they no longer possess a 
soul or mind, but become altogether flesh. But in the fire and 
the "prison" they do not receive "the recompense of error/ 5 but 
rather a benefaction to cleanse them from the evils committed 
in their "error," together with salutary sufferings that follow 
lovers of pleasure: thus they are delivered from all the filth and 
blood with which they had been so filthied and defiled that they 
could not even think about being saved from their own perdi- 
tion. For God "shall wash away the filth of the sons and the 
daughters of Sion, and shall purge the blood from the midst of 
them, by the spirit of judgment and the spirit of burning." 61 
For "he goes forth as the fire of a foundry and as the lye of 
fullers," 62 washing and cleansing them who are in need of such 
healing remedies, because they did not will determinedly "to 
have God in their knowledge." When they are willingly given 
over to these remedies they will hate their "reprobate mind." 63 
For God does not wish that good should come to anyone as of 
necessity, but of free will. Perhaps there are some who from 
their long association with evil will come to perceive its ugliness 

5 7 Rom. i .'23, 24. 58 Rom. 1 126, 27. 

59 <j>povLiLt$ irvpi: see note. Matt. 5:25, 26. 

Isa. 4:4. 62 Mai. 3:2 
1:28. 



ON PRAYER 319 

with difficulty, and turn away from it as from something that 
has falsely been supposed to be beautiful. 

1 6. It is to be noted if it was for this reason that God "hardens 
the heart of Pharaoh/' 64 that he might be able to say what he 
said when he was not hardened: "the Lord is righteous, and I 
and my people are wicked." 65 But he needed to be hardened 
still further and still further to suffer certain things, in order that 
too rapid a cessation of the hardening should not cause him to 
despise the hardening as an evil, and should not render him 
many times more worthy to be hardened. If, then, "not un- 
justly are the nets spread for birds," 66 as is said in Proverbs, but 
if on the contrary with good reason God "brings into the snare," 
according to him who said, "Thou broughtest us into the 
snare," 67 and if "without" the will of "the Father" not even the 
cheapest of winged creatures, the "sparrow," 68 falls "into the 
snare" (for when it falls "into the snare" it does so for this 
reason that it did not make good use of the power given by its 
wings to fly aloft), let us pray that we may never do anything 
worthy of being "brought into temptation" by the just judgment 
of God: for everyone is so brought who is "given up unto vile 
passions," and everyone who, "inasmuch as he refused to have 
God in himself," is "given up unto a reprobate mind, to do 
those things which are not fitting." 69 

17. The use of temptation is as follows. What our soul has 
received is unknown to all save God is unknown even to our- 
selves; but it is manifested by means of temptations: so that it 
may be no longer unknown what kind of persons we are, but 
rather that we should also know ourselves and be aware, if we 
will, of our own faults and give thanks for the good results mani- 
fested to us of temptations. That temptations, when they come, 
come to make it plain to us of what sort we are, or to "make 
known" the hidden things "in" our "heart," 70 is established by 
the saying of the Lord in Job and what is written in Deuter- 
onomy, as follows: "Dost thou think that I have answered thee 
save that thou mayest appear righteous?" 7 1 and in Deuteronomy 
thus, "He humbled thee and suffered thee to hunger, and fed 
thee with manna," and led thee in "the wilderness, wherein 
were biting serpent and scorpion and thirst," in order that "the 
things in thy heart might be made known." 72 

64 Gf. Ex. 9:12, 35; 10:1, 20, 27; 11:10. 65 Ex. 9:27. 

<><5 Prov. 1:17. 7 p s . 66:11. <58 Matt. 10:29. 

69 Rom. 1:24, 26, 28. 70 Cf. Deut. 8:2. 71 Job 40:8 (LXX). 
72 Deut. 8:3, 15, 2. 



320 ORIGEN 

1 8. And if we wish also to have reminders from history, we 
should know that the mind of Eve did not become easily per- 
suaded and feeble when she disobeyed God and listened to the 
serpent: but rather it was proved to be so beforehand, the ser- 
pent approaching her for this very reason, that his own insight 
perceived her weakness. 73 Neither did wickedness first arise 
in Cain when "he slew" 74 his brother (for even before that 
"God which knoweth the heart" 75 "had not respect unto Cain 
and to his sacrifices" 76 ); but his badness came to light when he 
killed Abel. Again, had not "Noah drunk of the wine" which 
he had tilled and "become drunken" and had he not "been 
uncovered," neither, on the one hand, would the hastiness of 
action of Ham and his impiety towards his father, nor, on the 
other, the grave and respectful behaviour of his brothers to 
their parent, have been manifested. 77 And the plot of Esau 
against Jacob seemed to have as its pretext the taking away of 
"the blessing" 78 ; but before this his soul had the "roots" of 
being a "fornicator" and "profane person." 79 And we should not 
have known the splendour of Joseph's self-control, who was pre- 
pared against the assaults of any desire, had not his mistress 
become enamoured of him. 80 

19. Therefore, in the times between successive temptations, 
we ought to take a firm stand against what is impending, and 
prepare ourselves for anything that may possibly happen, so 
that, whatever it may be, we shall not be proved unready, but 
shall be made manifest to have disciplined ourselves with the 
utmost care. For that which is lacking through human weak- 
ness, though we do everything within our power, "God will 
supply," 81 who "maketh all things to work together for good to 
them that love" him, "to them whom according to" 82 his in- 
fallible foreknowledge he has foreseen what they shall be in 
themselves. 

DELIVER US FROM THE EVIL ONE 

(Chapter XXX) 

XXX, i. It seems to me that Luke in the words: "Bring us 
not into temptation" 83 has virtually taught also "Deliver us 
from the evil one." 84 Probably to "the disciple," 85 inasmuch as 

73 Cf. Gen. 3:1-5. 74 Gen. 4:8. 75 Acts 15:8. 

76 Gen. 4:5. 77 Gen. 9:20-23. 78 Gen- 27:41. 

79 Heb. 12:15, 16. *o Gen. 39:7 ffl si Phil. 4:19. 

82 Rom. 8:28. ss Luke 1 1:4. 84 Matt. 6:13. 
85 Luke 11:1. 



ON PRAYER 321 

be had already profited/ 6 the Lord spoke the more concise say- 
ing, but to the many, who were in need of clearer teaching, that 
which was plainer. But God "delivers us from the evil one," not 
when the enemy that wrestles against us 87 in no way attacks us 
by any of his methods whatsoever or by the ministers of his will, 
but when we conquer bravely, taking a firm stand against cir- 
cumstances. It is thus that we understand also the saying: 
"Many are the afflictions of the righteous, and he delivereth 
them out of them all."** For God "delivereth 5 ' from "afflic- 
tions," not where there are no longer "afflictions 5 ' (seeing that 
Paul says, "afflicted on every side," 89 as never not "afflicted"), 
but when "afflicted" by the help of God we are "not strait- 
ened" 89 : to be afflicted, according to a customary Hebrew 
usage, indicates a critical happening which occurs inde- 
pendently of choice, while to be "straitened" is a matter of 
choice, when a man is conquered by affliction and gives in to it. 
Therefore Paul well says: "Afflicted on every side, yet not 
straitened." 89 And I think that the saying in Psalms is similar 
to this: "In affliction thou didst set me at large." 90 For by the 
co-operation and presence of the Word of God, who encourages 
and saves us, the gladness and cheerfulness of our mind that 
comes to us from God in the season of critical circumstances is 
termed enlargement. 

2. Similarly is to be understood the "deliverance" of anyone 
"from the evil one." For God "delivered" Job, not by the devil 
not receiving authority to involve him with this or that tempta- 
tion (for he did receive it), 91 but by the fact that "in all these 
happenings Job sinned not before the Lord," 91a but was shown 
to be righteous: He who said: "Doth Job fear God for nought? 
Hast thou not fortified what is outside and what is within his 
house and what is outside all that he hath round about? His 
works thou hast blessed and his cattle thou hast made abundant 
upon the earth. But put forth thine hand and touch all that he 
hath, verily he will curse thee to thy face" 92 he who said this 
was put to shame, as having thereby uttered a falsehood against 
Job: who after so many sufferings does not, as the adversary 
says, "curse" God "to" his "face," but even when given up to 
the tempter continues blessing God, and rebukes his wife when 
she says: "Speak a word to the Lord, and die," 93 chiding her 

86 Sc., by our Lord's teaching. ? Cf. Eph. 6:1 1, 12. 

88 p s . 34:19. 89 II Cor. 4:8. Ps. 4:1. 

9i Job. 1:12. 9ia<xjob 1:22 92 Job. 1:9-11. 

^3 Job 2:9. 

A.C. 21 



322 ORIGEN 

and saying, "Thou hast spoken as one of the foolish women: if 
we have received good at the hand of the Lord, shall we not 
endure evil'? 94 And the second time also the devil spake con- 
cerning Job to the Lord, "Skin for skin, all that a man hath will 
he give for his life. Only put forth thine hand and touch his 
bones and his flesh: verily, he will curse thee to the face. 3 ' 95 
Howbeit, conquered by this champion of virtue, he was shown 
to be a liar: for though undergoing the most severe sufferings 
Job remained "not sinning with his lips before God." 96 And 
having undergone two wrestlings and conquered, Job did not 
sustain a third contest of this sort: for it must needs be that the 
threefold wrestling was reserved for the Saviour, such as is re- 
corded in the three Gospels, 97 our Saviour as man being seen to 
have conquered the enemy three times. 

3. Having carefully examined these words and given them 
our personal scrutiny in order that we may intelligently ask God 
that we "enter not into temptation" 98 and that we be "delivered 
from the evil one 33 " and having become worthy through hearing 
God of being heard by him: let us when tempted beseech him 
that we be not put to death, and when attacked by "the fiery 
darts of the evil one 33 1 that we be not set on fire by them. All they 
are set on fire by them whose hearts, according to one of the 
twelve [prophets], have become "like an oven. 532 But they are 
not set on fire who with "the shield of faith quench all the fiery 
darts 331 that are sent against them by "the evil one" 99 ; so often 
as they have within themselves "rivers of water springing up 
unto eternal life," 3 which do not allow the dart of the evil one 
to prevail, but easily bring it to nought by the flood of inspired 
and saving thoughts, which are stamped by the contemplation 
of the truth upon the soul of him who trains himself to be 
spiritual, 

Supplement to General Discussion on Prayer 
CHAPTERS XXXI TO XXXIII 

Disposition and Posture in Prayer (Chapter XXXI, 1-3) 

XXXI, i. After this it does not seem to me to be out of place, 
in order to complete our discussion of the problem of prayer, to 
treat in an elementary manner of the disposition and the posture 
which he who prays ought to have, and the place, where he 

94 Job 2:10. 95 job 2:4, 5. 96 Job 2:10. 

97 Cf. Matt, 4:1-11; Luke 4:1-13. 

98 Matt. 26:41; Mark 14:38; Luke 22:40. 99 Matt. 6:13. 

i Eph. 6:16. 2 Hos. 7:6. 3 John 7:38; 4: 14. 



ON PRAYER 323 

ought to pray, and the direction in which he ought to look if no 
obstacle opposes, and the specially suitable time for prayer, and 
any other similar matters. The matter of disposition is to be re- 
ferred to the soul, the matter of posture to the body. Thus Paul 
says, as we mentioned above, 4 in describing the disposition, 
that prayer should be made "without wrath and disputing"; in 
describing the posture, "lifting up holy hands." 5 This, it seems 
to me, has been taken from the Psalms, as follows: "The lifting 
up of my hands as an evening sacrifice." 6 Concerning the place: 
"I desire therefore that the men pray in every place." 7 Con- 
cerning the direction, in the Wisdom of Solomon: "That it 
might be known that we must rise before the sun to give thee 
thanks, and must plead with thee before the dawning of the 
light."* 

2. It seems to me therefore that he who is about to come to 
prayer, if he withdraws and prepares himself for a little while, 
will be more earnest and attentive in regard to his prayer as a 
whole. He should put aside every kind of distraction 9 and dis- 
turbance of mind, and recollect as far as possible the greatness 
of him to whom he comes, and that it is a sacrilege to approach 
him lightly and carelessly and with a kind of disdain; and he 
should cast off all alien thoughts. Thus ought he to come to 
prayer, as it were stretching out the soul before the hands, and 
directing the mind to God before the eyes; and before he stands 
raising up from the ground the reason and making it to stand 
towards the Lord of all. All malice towards anyone who appears 
to have wronged him he should cast aside in so far as he wishes 
God to bear no malice towards himself, since he has injured and 
sinned against many a neighbour, or else is conscious of deeds 
of various kinds that he has committed contrary to right reason. 
Neither ought he to doubt that, as there are countless attitudes 
of the body, that attitude in which the hands are stretched out 
and eyes lifted up is to be preferred to all others, since the body 
brings to prayer the image, as it were, of the qualities suitable 
to the soul. We mean, however, that these attitudes should be 
given preference unless an obstacle opposes. For where there is 
an obstacle it is permissible on an occasion to pray suitably in a 
sitting position, on account of a disease of the feet that may not 
be disregarded, or even lying down, through fever or some such 
sickness. And also, on account of circumstances, if we are sailing, 

4 Chs. II and IX. 5 I Tim. 2:8. Ps. 141:2. 

7 I Tim. 2:8. 8 Wisdom of Solomon 16:28: see note* 

9 Adopting emendation of Bentley. 



324 ORIGEN 

let us say, or if our business does not allow us to withdraw and 
offer the prayer that is due, it is permitted to pray without even 
seeming to do so. 

3. And as for kneeling, that it is necessary when one is about 
to accuse oneself of his sins before God, supplicating him for 
healing therefrom and for forgiveness thereof, it ought to be 
known that it is a symbol of the man who is abject and sub- 
missive. Paul says, "For this cause I bow my knees unto the 
Father, from whom every family in heaven and on earth is 
named." 10 Spiritual kneeling, so named because every creature 
falls down before God "in the name of Jesus" and humbles him- 
self before him, appears to me to be indicated in the words: 
"That in the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of things in 
heaven and things on earth and things under the earth." 11 It 
is not by any means to be supposed that the bodies of heavenly 
beings are so fashioned as to possess bodily knees; for it has been 
shown by those who have treated of these matters carefully that 
their bodies are spherical. 12 He who does not wish to admit 
this will admit at any rate that each limb has its uses, so that 
nothing they possess has been fashioned to no purpose by God; 
unless indeed he shamelessly contradicts reason. Such a one will 
blunder in either case. Either he will affirm that the limbs of 
their body have been made by God to no purpose and not for 
their proper function; or else he will say that even in the case of 
heavenly bodies the viscera and the "intestinum rectum" per- 
form their special uses. It would lead to a very absurd conclu- 
sion to suppose that these organs had merely a surface like 
man's, after the manner of a statue, but no longer any depth as 
well. So much for my examination of the subject of kneeling 
and my recognition that: "in the name of Jesus every knee" 
shall "bow, of things in heaven, and things on earth, and things 
under the earth." 13 Moreover, what is written in the prophet, 
"Unto me every knee shall bow/' 14 has the same significance. 

The Place of Prayer (Chapter XXXI, 4-7) 

4. And concerning the place, it should be known that every 
place is suitable for prayer by him who prays well. For, "In 
every place offer incense to me, saith the Lord" 15 ; and "I de- 
sire therefore that the men pray in every place." 16 But in order 
that he may perform the act of prayer in quiet without distrac- 

10 Eptu 3:14, 15, 11 Phil 2:10. 12 See note. 

13 Phil. 2:10. 14 Isa. 45:23. i 5 Mai. 1:11. 

is I Tim. 2:8. 



ON PRAYER 325 

tion, each one can select in his own house, if possible, a place 
set apart, of a sacred character, if I may so express it, and thus 
pray. In addition to his general inquiry concerning it, he will 
take care that in this place, where he prays, no crime has at any 
time been committed or anything done contrary to right reason. 
It is as if he had made not only himself but also the place of his 
prayer such that the visitation of God will not rest upon it. And 
as I look into this matter still further, concerning the place of 
prayer, I must mention an opinion which may seem rather 
severe; but which, perhaps, a careful examination will show to 
be not negligible. It is a question whether it is a holy and pure 
thing to intercede with God in the place where sexual inter- 
course occurs I do not mean unlawful intercourse, but that 
which is allowed by the apostolic word, "by way of permission, 
not of commandment." 17 For if it is not possible to "give" one- 
self "unto prayer" as one ought, "unless" given over to it "by 
consent for a season," 18 perhaps the same consideration should 
be applied, if possible, to the place. 

5. There is a place of prayer which has charm as well as 
usefulness, the spot where "believers" come together "in one 
place," 19 and, it may be, angelic powers also stand by the 
gatherings of believers, and the power of the Lord and Saviour 
himself, and holy spirits as well, those who have fallen asleep 
before us, as I think, and clearly also those who are still in this 
life, although "how" it is not easy to say. As concerning angels, 
we must reckon the matter in this way. If "the angel of the Lord 
encampeth round about them that fear him, and will deliver 
them" 20 ; and if Jacob tells the truth not only about himself but 
also about all who are devoted to God, when he says to him who 
understands it, "the angel who delivers me from all evil," 21 it 
is probable that, when numbers are come together genuinely 
for the praise of Christ, each one's "angel" who is "round 
about" each of "them that fear [God] encamps" 20 with thatman 
whom he is charged to guard and keep: so that when the saints 
are gathered together there is a double church, the one of men, 
the other of angels. And if Raphael says of Tobit by himself, 
that he had offered up his "prayer" for "a memorial" and, after 
him, the prayer of "Sarah," who later on became his "daughter- 
in-law" through her marriage to Tobias 22 : what is to be said of 
that occasion when numbers journey together and come to- 
gether as a body in Christ "in the same mind and in the same 

i? I Cor. 7:6. is I Cor. 7:5. u Gf. Acts 2:1, 44. 

20 p s . 34:7. 21 Gen. 48:16. 22 Tobit 12:12; 3:16, 17. 



3*6 ORIGEN 

judgment"? 23 As concerning the power of the Lord being pre- 
sent with the Church, Paul says, "Ye being gathered together, 
and my spirit, with the power of our Lord Jesus: the power of the 
Lord Jesus" 24 being associated not only with the Ephesians 25 
but also with the Corinthians. And if Paul while still clothed 
with a body held that it co-operated with his spirit in Corinth, 26 
we must not give up the belief that so also the blessed ones who 
have departed come in the spirit more quickly than he who is 
in the body to the assemblies of the Church. Therefore we must 
not despise the prayers that are made there, since they have a 
singular value for him who joins genuinely in common worship. 

6. Even as the power of Jesus, the spirit of Paul and of such 
as he, and "the angels of the Lord encamping round about" 27 
each of the saints joins in meeting and assembly with those who 
are genuinely gathered together, so also, one must venture to 
conjecture, if there be someone, unworthy of a holy angel, who 
gives himself up to an angel of the devil 28 through his sins and 
wicked disregard of God, such a one, if there be a few like him, 
will not for long escape the notice of the angels, who serve the 
divine will and watch over 29 the Church and they will bring 
the faults of such a one to the knowledge of the majority. But if 
such persons are numerous and assemble together after the 
manner of human associations for the carrying out of worldly 
business, they will not be watched over. 30 This is indicated in 
Isaiah when the Lord says, "not even if ye come to appear 
before me" 31 ; for, he says, "I will turn away mine eyes from 
you: yea, when ye make many prayers, I will not hear you." 32 
For perhaps instead of the aforesaid company of holy men and 
blessed angels, again a double gathering comes together, of 
wicked men and bad angels; and of an assembly composed of 
such it might be said by holy angels and devoted men, "I have 
not sat with a vain council, and with transgressors I will not 
enter. I hate the congregation of evil-doers, and with the wicked 
I will not sit." 33 

7. It is for this reason, I think, that those who in Jerusalem 
and all Judaea have multiplied sins have become subject to 
their enemies, because the peoples in abandoning the law have 
been abandoned by God and the angels who were their shield 

23 I Cor. 1:10. 24 I Cor. 5:4. 25 See note. 

2<i Gf. I Cor. 5:3, 4. 27 p s . 34:7 . 

28 Adopting an emendation of the Anonymous. 

29 Adopting emendation. 30 I.e., by the good angels. 
3i Isa. 1:12. 32 Isa. I:I5 . 33 p s . 26:4, 5. 



ON PRAYER 327 

and the holy men who were their saviours. Thus, even whole 
assemblies were at times left to encounter trials: so that "even 
that which" they "seem to have was taken away from" 34 them. 
Like "the fig tree" which had been "cursed," which was taken 
away even "from the roots," because it had not given "fruit" 
to Jesus when he was "hungry," so also they were "withered," 35 
losing any little vital power of faith that they had. So much, it 
seems to me, I must say in discussing the place of prayer and in 
showing the superiority of the place wiiere the saints meet when 
they assemble devoutly together in church. 

The Superiority of Prayer towards the East (Chapter XXXII) 

XXXII. A few words also must now be said about the direc- 
tion towards which he who prays should look. There are four 
cardinal points, north, south, west, and east. Who would not 
at once agree that the east clearly shows the direction we ought 
to face when praying, symbolically of the soul looking to the 
"rising" 36 of "the true light"? 37 But if someone should prefer 
to offer his intercessions towards the opening of his house, in 
whatever direction the doors of the dwelling face, on the plea 
that the heaven-ward aspect is more compelling than looking 
towards the wall, should it happen that the openings of the 
building are not towards the east, we may reply to him that it 
is by convention that the doors of men's dwelling-places face 
in this or that direction, but that by nature the east has been 
given a preference over the other points of the compass, and 
nature ought to be placed before convention. Further, suppose 
that a man wishes to pray on a plain. Why on that reasoning 
should he pray towards the east rather than towards the west? 
But if reason dictates that the east is to be preferred in that case, 
why should this not be done everywhere? So much for this 
matter. 

The Subjects of Prayer (Chapter XXXIII) 

XXXIII, i. Before bringing this treatise to an end, I think 
I ought to say something about the subjects of prayer. It seems 
to me that four subjects, which I have found here and there 
throughout the Scriptures, may be outlined, and that every one 
should form his prayer accordingly. The subjects are these. At 
the beginning and preamble of the prayer, so far as possible, 
God is to be glorified, through Christ glorified together with him, 

34 Luke 8:18. 35 Mark 11:12-14, 21. ^ Luke 1:78. 

37 John 1:9. 



328 ORIGEN 

in the Holy Spirit hymned together with him. And next in 
order after this each one must offer general thanksgiving 
including blessings bestowed on many besides himself, together 
with those he has personally obtained from God. After thanks- 
giving, it seems to me that he ought to accuse himself bitterly 
before God of his own sins, and then ask God, first for healing 
that he may be delivered from the habit that causes him to 
sin, and secondly for forgiveness of the past. After confession, 
it seems to me that in the fourth place he should add his request 
for great and heavenly things, * 8 his own and general, and also 
for his family and his dearest. And finally he should bring his 
prayer to a close glorifying God through Christ in the Holy 
Spirit. 

2. These subjects of prayer, as we said before, we found in 
one place or another of the Scriptures. The subject concerned 
with giving glory to God is thus expressed in the one hundred 
and third Psalm: "O Lord, my God, how greatly art thou mag- 
nified! Thou art clothed with praise and majesty; who coverest 
thyself with light as with a garment; who stretchest out the 
heavens like a curtain, who layeth the beams of his chambers in 
the waters; who maketh the clouds a place for his feet, who 
walketh upon the wings of the winds; who maketh winds his 
messengers, his ministers a flame of fire: who layeth the founda- 
tions of the earth to remain stedfast; it shall not be removed 
for ever and ever. The deep is his covering as a vesture: the 
waters shall stand upon the mountains. At thy rebuke they shall 
flee: at the voice of thy thunder they shall be afraid." 39 And the 
greater part of this Psalm contains a glorification of the Father. 
And each one can collect many other passages for himself, and 
he will thus see how widely the subject of glorification is 
dispersed. 

3. As for thanksgiving, this example may be cited from the 
second [book] of the Kingdoms. After the promises made to 
David through Nathan, 40 David was astonished at the gifts of 
God, and is reported to have given thanks for them in these 
words: "Who am I, O Lord my Lord, and what is my house, 
that thou lovedst me thus far? And I was made little in thy sight, 
my Lord, and thou hast spoken concerning the house of thy 
servant for a long time to come; but this is the law of man, O 
Lord my Lord. And what can David say more unto thee? And 
now thou knowest thy servant, O Lord. For thy servant's sake 
thou hast done it, and according to thine heart hast thou 
38 See II, 2. 39 PS. 104:1-7. 40 II Sam. 7:1-17. 



ON PRAYER 339 

wrought all this thy greatness to make it known unto thy ser- 
vant, that he may magnify thee, O Lord my Lord." 41 

4. An example of confession: "From all my transgressions 
deliver me 5 ' 42 ; and elsewhere: "My wounds stink and are cor- 
rupt, because of my foolishness. I am pained and bowed down 
to the uttermost: I go mourning all the day long." 43 

5. Of requests, in the twenty-seventh Psalm: "Draw me not 
away with sinners, and with workers of iniquity destroy me 
not" 44 ; and like words. 

6. And having begun by glorifying God it is fitting to con- 
clude and bring the prayer to an end by glorifying him, hymn- 
ing and glorifying the Father of the universe through Jesus 
Christ in the Holy Spirit, "to whom be the glory for ever." 45 

Conclusion 
CHAPTER XXXIV 

XXXIV. Thus, according to my ability, I have wrestled 
with the problem of prayer, and the prayer that is found in the 
Gospels, 46 and the preceding context in Matthew, 47 on your 
behalf, 48 my very studious and true brethren in godliness, Am- 
brose and Tatiana. And I do not despair that, if you "stretch 
forward to the things which are before" and "forget the things 
which are behind," 49 and pray for us as we are engaged in 
these studies, I can obtain from God, the giver, greater and 
diviner gifts for these tasks, and receiving them I shall be able 
to treat again of these same matters with greater breadth and 
elevation and clarity. For the present, however, you will read 
this book with indulgence. 

4i II Sam. 7:18-22. 42 p s . 39:8. 43 PS. 38:5, 6. 

44 Ps. 28:3. 45 Rom. 16:27. 

46 Matt. 6:9-13; Luke 11:2-4. 47 Matt. 6:5-8. 48 Reading vplv. 

49 Phil. 3:13, 



On Prayer 

NOTES 

Title On Prayer] A Title is wanting in Codex T. There can, 
however, be little or no doubt that "On Prayer" is correct. In 
the course of the work Origen himself speaks of its subject as 
ircpl zvxfjs (H, i); and in his Apologia pro Origene (as translated 
by Rufinus) Pamphilus writes (ch. VIII): "Denique in tarn 
multis et tarn diversis eius libris nusquam omnino invenitur ab 
eo liber proprie De anima conscriptus, sicut habet vel De 
Martyrio, vel De Oratione, vel De resurrectione" (P.G., XVII, 603). 
Cf. also the title of the fragments in Codex Col. (see Introduc- 
tion, p. 234) containing the last part of the treatise: rov 
cSplyefous- TO rfjs ev^s a/cporeAeuTtby. 

I, i. "a corruptible body weigheth down the soul" etc.] Thus, at 
the outset of his treatise Origen states in the words of the Wisdom 
of Solomon his philosophical position, akin to that of Plato 
(Phaedo, XXX, 8iC), concerning the relation of the soul to the 
body. This was fundamental in all Origen 3 s thinking. 

I, i. "the things that are in the heavens, who ever yet traced out?"~\ 
The impossibility of knowing God 5 apart from revelation, is 
yet another fundamental conviction. De Faye, III, 31, 32: 
"Origene eleve son Dieu audessus de toute pensee. II le relegue 
dans une insondable abstraction." See Introduction, p. 189. 

I, i. God bestows through Christ , who says> etc.] I have included 
in this case in the text the conjectural filling up of the lacuna 
by Koetschau, since a quotation from John 15:14, 15 is obvious, 
being demanded by the words that follow. The sentence "They 
who hear the gospel ... of whom he was formerly Lord" fol- 
lows an emendation by F. Leo (in Hautsch, T.C7., XXXIV, 
155), accepted by Koetschau in his translation. 

II, i. Ambrose] Further details concerning this man may be 

330 



ON PRAYER 331 

found in D.C.B., I, 90-91, and Lawlor and Oulton, Eusebius, II, 
2 13 f. It is sufficient here to note that his association with Origen 
had a profound effect upon them both. Origen reclaimed turn 
from heresy. Ambrose, on his part, encouraged Origen in his 
literary labours, and generously out of his own means, which 
were abundant, supplied him with equipment for them. The 
epithet "most laborious," which Origen here applies to Am- 
brose, is by no means otiose. His zeal and industry were so in- 
tense that even the indefatigable Origen called him playfully 
his "task-master" or "slave-driver" (epyoSiajKrrjs : Ex. 3:7; 
5:6-14). Ambrose communicated in writing to Origen the 
questions about prayer (V, 6) which gave rise to this treatise. 
See Introduction, p. 182. 

II, i. Tatiana] Nothing is known about this woman. Am- 
brose associated her with himself, apparently, in the questions 
about prayer. Some have supposed her to be Ambrose's sister 
(the name of his wife was Marcella: see Origen, Ep. ad Africanum, 
sub fn.) . She was evidently a person of somewhat mature age. 
The epithet "very brave" may suggest constancy in time of 
persecution. 

II, 2. "Ask for the great things, and the little things shall be added 
untoyou"~\ An Agraphon, or extra-canonical saying, attributed by 
some writers in the early Church to our Lord. Origen goes on: 
"and 'Ask for the heavenly things and the earthly things shall 
be added unto you.' " But it is not clear whether he intends both 
parts to be regarded as one or two separate sayings. The latter 
part has echoes of John 3:12 combined with Matt. 6:33 and 
Luke 12:31. Clement of Alexandria (Strom., I, 24:158, 2) refers 
to the earlier part only: "Of the kingly office one portion is 
divine, that which appertains to God and his holy Son, by whom 
are supplied both the good things of the earth and besides per- 
fect felicity as well. For 'Ask/ he says, Tor the great things, and 
the little things shall be added unto you.'" Cf. Eusebius, In 
Psalm.) 16:2: "This also the Saviour taught, saying, 'Ask for the 
great things, and the little things shall be added unto you. 5 " On 
the interpretation of "the great" and "the little" things Clement 
and Origen are at one. Clem., Strom., IV, 6:34, 6, says, "Seek ye 
first the kingdom of heaven and the righteousness: these are 
great things; the small things, appertaining to this life, shall be 
added unto you." Origen (contra Celsum, VII, 44) declares that 
the Christian prays for no trivial blessings, "for he has learnt 
from Jesus to seek for nothing little, that is, an object of the 
senses, but to seek only the great and truly divine things, such 



332 ORIGEN 

as are given by God to help to lead us on to that blessedness that 
is to be found with him through his Son, the Word, who is 
God"; and he develops this thought in XIV, i, of this treatise 
(see p. 266). Some modern scholars have also reckoned this 
agraphon as an indubitable saying of the Lord, e.g., Resch, 
Agrapha, 230, "Es ist ein sehr gut beglaubigtes Herrenwort," 
and Ropes, Spruche Jesu, 140, "Dieser Spruch kann gewiss als 
eine treue Wiedergabe eines Lehrspruches Jesu gelten." See 
H.D.B., article "Agrapha" in extra volume; B. Jackson, 
Twenty-Jive Agrapha, 29 ff. For the sentiment, cf. Plato, 
Apology, XVII. 

II, 2. "that Satan rejoice not over you"] Iva py Imxapfj vp.iv 6 
craravds. The usual reading in I Cor. 7:5 is: Iva ^77 Treipd^rj 
V/AC& 6 uarava$. Von Soden notes this variant; but it seems to 
have escaped the attention of English scholars. That it is not a 
scribal error in T is plain from the words of Origen that follow: 
"the joy that Satan takes in another's ill.* 5 In spite of its weak 
attestation, there are two points that may be urged in favour of 
eiTixapfj vplv being the true reading: (i) it would be fatally easy 
for a scribe to alter emxapfj to napd^ in a reference to Satan; 
and (2) if Paul wrote emxapfj it would give additional point to 
I Cor. 13:6: rj aydirq . . . ov ^at/)& em rfj aSt/cta. 

II, 2. "If ye stand praying"] Mark 11:25. Here and in IX.*3 
Origen reads "If ye stand" instead of "Whensoever ye stand," 
which is found in all the other textual authorities, except the 
Bohairic and the Sahidic versions, which also read "if." For 
posture in prayer, see XXXI, 2. 

II, 4. hearkening as it were to it] Reading, with Bentley, e7n?/cda> 
for vTrrjKoa), which usually means "obeying" although it can 
also mean "hearkening." 

II, 4. him, whose deep things, etc.] An emendation of 
Bentley is followed. 

II, 4. so far as he is able] o>s* e|/erj^cre. The words, taken in their 
literal meaning, would indicate that the Spirit cannot fully 
fathom the deep things of God. If so, they must be added to 
those expressions used by Origen which indicate a doctrine of 
the Holy Spirit that falls short of the Catholic Faith. On the 
other hand, in De Princ., I, 3, 4 (as translated by Rufinus), in 
which the reference to I Cor. 2:10 again occurs, Origen says: 
"As the Son, who alone knows the Father, reveals him to whom 
he will, so the Holy Spirit, who alone searches the deep things 
of God, reveals God to whom he will." The knowledge and 
power of revelation possessed by the Holy Spirit is parallel to 



ON PRAYER 333 

that possessed by the Son, and he has it in virtue of his own 
being. It may be, however, that Origen draws a subtle distinc- 
tion between "knowing the Father" (the peculiar property of 
the Son) and "searching the deep things of God" (the peculiar 
property of the Spirit), and suggests that the latter involves a 
less complete understanding than does the former. And we can- 
not be sure that Rufinus has not doctored this passage in the 
interests of orthodoxy. Certainly, Injoh., II, 10, 1 1 (ed. Brooke) 
is on different lines. There Origen raises the question whether 
since it is said that all things were made through the Son, the 
Holy Spirit is one of them; and after some hesitation (in the 
course of which, however, he affirms his belief in three Hypo- 
stases) he slips into an affirmative answer, and comes to the 
conclusion that the Holy Spirit is one of the "all things" inferior 
(vTToSeeardpaiv) to him through whom all things were made. 

II, 4. not to all those who were being baptized] It is a favourite 
thought of Origen that there are two classes of believers, a 
higher and a lower, and that the former alone are capable of 
receiving esoteric teaching. Here he suggests that the same dis- 
tinction was to be found in John's, as it was afterwards in 
Christian, disciples. 

II, 6. I pray as a man] The punctuation and construction of 
the rest of this sentence is not self-evident: but I have followed 
Koetschau as giving the clearest sense. 

II, 6. the prayers recorded in the Gospels] Origen held (XVIII, 
2, 3) that the versions of the Lord's Prayer in Matthew and 
Luke represent two different prayers. 

III, i. occurs for the first time, so far as my observation goes'] For 
another statement, involving a similar, but even greater amount 
of, search, see XXII, i. Such investigation must, under the 
literary conditions of the time, have been very laborious. But 
we now know that Christians of Origen's day had several books 
of the Bible combined in codex or book form, as for example in 
the Chester Beatty Biblical Papyri. And this must have made 
the task of such an examination of the Scriptures much lighter 
than if separate rolls had to be handled. 

Ill, 2. is also employed in its customary usage] i.e., simply as 
"prayer," with no suggestion of "vow." 

Ill, 2. in addition to the sense previously mentioned] i.e., the sense 
of "vow" (as at the beginning of this section). 

Ill, 3. "/ will go out from thee" etc.] In this quotation two 
similar verses of the LXX (Ex. 8:25, 28) are combined in a 
manner that suggests that Origen was relying on his memory. 



334 ORIGEN 

III, 4. is often used not in the accustomed manner] i.e., it is used in 
the sense of "vow 55 (as in Gen. 28:20-22), and not simply as 
"prayer." 

III, 4. "There are with us four men which are under a vow of their 
own act"} The reading followed by the Revised Version in Acts 
21 123 is: "We have four men which have a vow on them." The 
reading "of their own act" (lit. "by themselves") appears to be 
"Alexandrian," being read by Codices H and B and by the two 
Egyptian versions, as well as by Origen. It makes good sense, 
showing that the men in question had taken upon them their 
vow independently of Paul's intervention. 

IV, i . to distinguish, etc.] Trench (Synonyms of the New Testa- 
ment : , 1 88) justly points out that this long discussion of Origen 
on euche and proseuche has no great value. It amounts to no more 
than this. The customary meaning of both words is "prayer": 
III, 2 (euche); IV, 2 (proseuche). But in both cases the meaning 
"vow" is sometimes found, although of euche many more in- 
stances of this sense are given than there are of proseuche'. indeed 
only one passage, I Sam. i :g-i i, is cited forproseucke^vow, and 
in it the verb (proseuxato), not the noun, is used. 

V, i. the plausible arguments first of those., etc.] Origen's friends 
placed before him two arguments against prayer (see section 6 
of this chapter): (i) that God has foreseen the future, and it 
must come to pass; (2) man has no free will, since God's will 
cannot be changed. The conclusion on both suppositions is that 
prayer is in vain. Before he deals with these objections, Origen 
mentions in passing (section i) a third class of objectors who 
reject prayer altogether because they are atheists or do not 
believe in Providence. He then proceeds to deal with argument 
(i) in sections 2-5. In ch. VI he begins a discussion of objec- 
tion (2). A clearer arrangement would have been to place V, 6, 
at the beginning of the chapter. 

V, i. lacking in distinguished supporters'] Origen means that 
there is no sect of philosophers which admits God and Providence 
and at the same time rejects prayer altogether, although it may 
doubt its efficacy. 

V, i. deny the existence of God, etc.] There is an echo of this 
aspect of Origen's teaching in the Panegyric of Gregory ad- 
dressed to Origen, ch. XIII (P.G., X, 1088; AJT.L., VI, 34): 
"He [Origen] deemed it right for us to study philosophy in 
such wise, that we should read with utmost diligence all that 
has been written, both by the philosophers and by the poets of 
old, rejecting nothing, and repudiating nothing . . * except 



ON PRAYER 



only the productions of the atheists, who, in their conceits, lapse 
from the general intelligence of man, and deny that there is 
either a God or a Providence." In contra Celsum, II, 13, Origen 
says that the Epicureans "completely reject" Providence. 

V, i. to persuade some that they ought not to pray] Perhaps this is 
a direct reference to Clement of Alexandria, Strom., VII, 41, 
who speaks of the followers of the heresy of Prodicus as holding 
that one "ought not to pray" rrepl rou ^ SeZv eij^odu the 
same phrase as Origen uses here. 

V, i. those who completely reject objects of sense., and use neither 
Baptism nor Eucharist] That such persons were to be found in the 
early Church is clear from Irenaeus, Haer., I, 14:3 (Harvey), 
who speaks of a section of the gnostics, called the Marcosians, 
who reject baptismal rites, affirming that "the mystery of the 
ineffable and invisible power ought not to be performed by 
visible and corruptible things, nor the mystery of beings who are 
inconceivable and incorporeal by material objects of sense." 
And Tertullian (De Baptismo, i) states that the Cainites rejected 
Baptism. The persons referred to by Ignatius (Smyrn. 6), who 
"abstain from Eucharist and prayer," did not apparently ab- 
stain altogether from this sacrament, but established a sacra- 
ment of their own apart from the Church (see Lightfoot's note 
ad^loc.). In contra Celsum II, 13, Origen says of the Peripatetic 
philosophers that they maintain prayers to be of no avail 
and sacrifices offered as to a Divinity. 

V, 2. "abhorreth none of the things" etc.] Wisdom of Solomon 
1 1 124. This appears to be the source of the words in the Collect 
of Ash Wednesday: "Almighty and everlasting God, who hatest 
nothing that thou hast made." 

V, 2. much further of from God] i.e., from the mind of God. 
See Introduction, p. 189. 

V, 3. melancholy madness] Origen uses the corresponding verb 
in contra Celsum, II, 60, where he co-ordinates it with "being out 
of one's mind and delirious." 

V, 4. "good or bad"] In this quotation from Rom. 9:11 Origen 
reads (f>av\ov for "bad" with K AB, etc., v.l. 9 /ca/cov. 

V, 4. in vain do we pray concerning . . . the reception of the Spirit 
of might] It is^ noteworthy that this form of the doctrine of pre- 
destination gives rise to the same difficulties concerning the 
reception of grace as Calvinism afterwards occasioned. 

V, 4. why does Moses pray] The title of Ps. 89 (LXX) in both 
Hebrew and LXX is: "A Prayer of Moses, the man of God." 

V, 5. "m him, in Christ"] Eph. 1:4. Either "in. Christ" is a 



336 ORIGEN 

gloss which has subsequently got into the text, or it is added by 
Origen from the preceding verse of Ephesians by way of 
explanation. 

V, 5. one of those "chosen"] So Bentley emends the text of T. 

V 3 5. "conformed to the image" of the glory "of his Son"} Origen 
apparently quotes from memory. The words "of the glory" are 
not in Rom. 8:29, but in Phil. 3:21; "conformed to," being in 
both texts, has given rise to the confusion. 

V, 5, many generations previously it was prophesied of him by name} 
The passage in I Kings 13:2 is without analogy in Hebrew pro- 
phecy, in that 350 years before its fulfilment it gives a specific 
and detailed prediction of what a person named (Josiah) would 
do. 

V, 5. why should Judas pray, etc.] This passage throws light 
upon the manner of interpreting the Old Testament in the time 
of Origen. Psalm 109 is regarded, not as indicating a set of cir- 
cumstances which afterwards were seen to be applicable to the 
case of Judas, but as referring in the first instance to Judas, so 
much so that the actions of Judas, historically considered, are 
predestined by the prophecy. Origen indicates in contra Celsum, 
II, n, that he himself took a similar view of the Psalm, although 
he rejected the predestinarian views founded upon it. Cf. also 
De Orat., VI, 5; XXIV, 5. 

V, 6. you addressed] "You 55 is singular. Ambrose wrote the 
letter, although Tatiana was associated with it. 

V, 6. the future . . . must come to pass . . . what is willed by him 
is fixed} It is not clear if Ambrose (and Tatiana) put forward 
these difficulties as their own or as suggested to them by others. 
It is significant, however, that Ambrose was formerly a gnostic. 
Eusebius (/?.., VI, 18:1) says he was a follower of Valentinus, 
Jerome (V.i, 5, 6) that he was a Marcionite. For the gnostics 
denied moral freedom and held predestinarian views (see de 
Faye, III, 179 fT.; Bigg, 243 ff.). Probably, therefore, even if the 
difficulties about prayer that Ambrose puts forward were not 
held by him at the time of writing, they had been difficulties for 
him once; and it is more than likely that he still had friends in 
gnostic circles who would press him for an answer to these 
questions. 

V, 6. insensibility] Greek aTrovap/cav, lit. "to be numb": the 
effect, it was supposed, of being touched by the vap/ci), the 
electric rayfish. 

VI, i. Of things that are moved, etc.] As in De Princ., Ill, I, 2, 
Origen bases the reality of free will on the faculty of motion. In 



ON PRAYER 337 

order to demonstrate this., he arranges objects into three (or 
four) classes, as follows: 

(1) (a) Things without life, held together merely by their 
form (e.g., stones cut out of the quarry, wood that has lost the 
power of growing) . 

(b) Bodies of living creatures and growing plants when 
moved, not qua living creatures or plants, but by an external 
force, or when moved in virtue of the fact that they are in a 
state of decay and, consequently, of flux. 

(2) Inanimate things (afaxa: De Princ., Ill, i :Q) moved by 
their own inherent nature or soul, i.e., "out of themselves" 
(e lavT&v) y e.g., a growing plant. 

(3) Animate things (Uptfwxa) > living creatures (<Da), moved 
"from within themselves" (a<' avr&v}. The impulse of the 
spider to weave a web, or of a bee to produce wax, are examples 
of this (De Princ.). [In De Principiis Origen, while maintaining 
the distinction between classes (2) and (3), also groups them 

together as objects which are moved "in themselves" 

/ * c \ ~\ 
(ev eavroLs) .J 

(4) Rational creatures, which are moved "through them- 
selves" (St' aurojv). In this case the movement and the mover 
are inseparably connected. 

In the De Oratione Origen does not distinguish formally be- 
tween classes (3) and (4); perhaps because he is anxious to 
point out, as he does, that to deny free will to us would be to 
deny that we are even living creatures (class 3), much less 
creatures of reason (class 4). 

This argument from the power of self-motion is clearly de- 
rived, ultimately, from Plato (cf. Phaedrus, 2450 et seq. and 
Laws, X, 8936 et seq.), who regards it as constituting the essen- 
tial character of the soul. On this point Plato was criticized by 
Aristotle (De Anima, I, ch. III). 

VI, i. held together merely by their form] Cf. Marcus Aurelius, 
Meditations., VI, 14, and Sextus Empiricus, adv. Math., VIII,, 2, 
for a very similar phrase. 

VI, i . moved by their own inherent nature and soul] Cf. Proclus, 
Inst., 20. 

VI, 2. that we have no free will] Lit. "that nothing is in our 
power." We have translated the phrase TO l<f>* r^w ("that which 
is in our power") as free will in this section, in VI, 3, 4, 
and in ch. VII. It is found frequently also in contra Celsum, 
(I, 66; II, 20; IV, 3, 67 (bis), 70; V, 21). The plural, 
TO. <j>* rjjjitv, occurs in contra Celsum, V, 21, and De OraL, VI, 3. 



338 ORIGEN 

By the phrase the Stoics meant the inner court of judgment, 
that in a man which has the power to accept or reject certain 
impressions; and Origen took it over from them in the sense of 
the power of judgment or choice, as for example the power to 
resist evil passions and refrain from evil actions. The possession 
of this power was held to be open to question in Origen's day 
by the Sceptics: cf. Sextus Empiricus, Outline of Pyrrhonism, III, 
70, "And if anyone should seek refuge in the notions of 'im- 
pulse' and 'purpose/ we must remind him of the controversy 
about 'What is in our power/ and how it is still unsettled, since 
hitherto we have failed to find a criterion of truth." This quota- 
tion suggests, which is indeed a fact, that by this time the phrase 
had become through usage a recognized term, so much so in- 
deed that it signified generally the power of choice, and could 
be used of a third person, in which case the "our" had no sig- 
nificance. Thus we have in ch. VII (beginning) rov yXiov 
<f>' TUMV, "the free will of the sun/' and later on in the chapter 
"the free will of the sun and moon and stars"; and in contra 
Celsum, I, 66, TO e<' ^lv 'HpwSov, "the free will of Herod." See 
de Faye, III, 182 ff. 9 who translates the phrase: "ce qui depend 
de nous." 

VI, 2. Let a man pay particular attention, etc.] So in almost the 
same words Origen begins a similar line of argument in De 
Princ., Ill, 1:4 (C.B., XXII, 198). 

VI, 2. Some external moving force . . . assent to or accept] 
Following emendations adopted by Koetschauinhis translation. 

VI, 2. in suspense of judgment] ws en-e^ow. This was a char- 
acteristic feature of the philosophy of the sceptics. Cf. Sextus 
Empiricus (c. 200 A.D.) Outlines of Pyrrhonism, I, 10: "'Suspense' 
[erro;^] is a state of mental rest as a result of which we neither 
deny nor affirm anything." 

VI, 2. and deserves our praise or blame] I read rov for rovrov 
with Wendland. For "praise or blame" cf. Plato, Laws, 6390. 

VI, 3. the train of future events] rov elpfjiov r&v ecro/zeycov. Origen 
uses the same phrase in a similar argument in In Rom., I (Philo- 
calia, 227, 229). 

VI, 4. "/ will hear this man," etc.] This is not the only passage 
in which Origen adopts the method of putting his own con- 
ception of the mind of God into words as if spoken by God him- 
self or Christ: cf. XIV, i; XV, 4; XXIX, 14. 

VI, 4. some inferior power . . . will now deservedly come upon him] 
Reading qf&j for iJSe 17 with Koetschau in his translation. 

VI ? 5. power for godliness] "Power" is literally "tension/ 5 



ON PRAYER 339 

Origen borrowed this term from the Stoics (see XXVII, 8, and 
especially the reference of Plutarch to Cleanthes in note there, 
p. 367). According to them "tension" when imparted to the 
soul was the cause of virtues and vices. Origen points out that 
in Paul it was an enablement towards virtue. 

VII, i. Even the sun has a certain free will., etc.] This passage 
must be read in the context of Origen's belief that the sun and 
moon and the host of heaven were rational beings and possessed 
of souls. Justinian, Ep. ad Mennam (P.G., LXXXVI, 971; cf. 
C.., XXII, 91), criticized Origen for saying that "the heaven 
and the sun and the moon and the stars and the waters that are 
above the heavens are living creatures [eju-i/fuxa] and are rational 
powers of a sort." Cf. De Princ., I, 7:4 (as restored from Jerome: 
see C.5., XXII, 90) : "the sun too and moon and the other stars 
are living creatures [animantia]; indeed, just as we men be- 
cause of certain sins are encompassed with bodies which are 
gross and fat, so also the luminaries have received such and 
such bodies, so that they shine more or less brilliantly; and 
demons because of graver transgressions are clothed with a 
transitory body." Cf. also contra Celsum, V, n: "being per- 
suaded that the sun himself and the moon and the stars pray to 
the God of the universe through his only-begotten Son, we 
judge it improper to pray to those beings who themselves offer 
up prayers." See also Danielou, Origene, III, i. Origen was 
not alone among the Fathers in holding this opinion: see Bigg, 
242. 

VII, i. certain impressions] <f>wramai } here translated "im- 
pressions," also occurs in this treatise in VI, 2; VIII, 2 (bis); 
IX, 2; XX, 2 (ter) ; XXI, i . It is not an easy word to translate in 
every case. Aristotle (De Anima, III, 3) contrasts it with sense- 
perception (a toreros) ; and he defined it as "that faculty in 
respect of which an image or mental picture presents itself before 
us." As used in the De Oratione the "impression" may be of good 
or evil. "Imagination," "thought," "notion," have also been 
used to translate the word. Marcus Aurelius (Meditations, V, 16) 
employs it in a famous sentence: "the soul takes its dye from the 
thoughts" (jSctTrrerat VTTO rcav <f)avTaat,a)v 77 faxr)) . Origen followed 
Epictetus and the Stoics in holding that by virtue of the posses- 
sion of free will a man could discriminate between "impressions," 
as they presented themselves to him, and either accept or reject 
them. See de Faye, III, 183 ff. 

VII, i. the worse course] This emendation (in place of "the 
better course") seems necessary, since Origen is contrasting 



34 ORIGEN 

beings on earth with heavenly beings who cannot be diverted 
from the right course. 

VIII, i. "vain repetitions"] See note on XXI, i. 

VIII, i , nor ought we to come to prayer in wrath'] Five times in 
this treatise (cf. also II, 2; IX, i (bis); XXXI, i) Origen makes 
this point, with a reference to I Tim. 2:8. Perhaps the bitter 
experience he had recently gone through at Alexandria caused 
him to emphasize it. See Introduction, p. 176. 

VIII, 2. God . . . who . . . is present] Three times in this section 
Origen lays stress upon the need of remembering the presence 
of God when praying. The fact throws light upon the mystical 
side of his nature. Though for him God is transcendent, philo- 
sophically speaking, it is of the essence of his religion to realize 
God's nearness. 

VIII, 2. spies out and anticipates every purpose'] Cf, Clement of 
Alexandria, Strom., VII, 7:36, 37, for the belief concerning God 
and his presence entertained by the true gnostic. 

VIII, 2. if the calling to mind . . . of an illustrious man] Cf. 
Clement of Alexandria, Strom.., VII, 7:35, where a similar line 
of thought is followed. 

IX, i. "disputing*"'] Here and In Joh. 5 XXVIII, 5, and In 
Jerem. horn., V, 9, Frag. no. Ixviii (CJ?., VI, 39, 231) Origen 
quotes I Tim. 2:8 with the plural (ScoAoyiopcov), as vouched 
for by the corrector of 8, and Bohairic and Syriac versions and 
other authorities. In De Orat., II, 2, and XXXI, i, he reads the 
singular. 

IX, i. "and gold"] Twice in this section, in quoting I Tim. 
2:9, Origen reads KO! xpvo-oK Variant readings are rj for KO! and 
XpucTta> ("wrought gold") for xP va( $- 

IX, 2. When the eyes of the understanding are lifted up, etc.] This 
eloquent passage is paralleled, though not equalled, in In Joh., 
XXVIII, 4, and contra Celsum, VII, 44 (end). Cf. also Clement 
of Alexandria, Strom., VII, 3:13. 

IX, 2. they partake of a kind of divine spiritual effluence] See 
XIX, 3, note. 

IX, 2. "was signed upon us"] The Hebrew of Ps. 4:y(b) is, 
"Lift the light of thy countenance upon us," the verb "lift" be- 
ing connected with a root meaning "banner 55 or "standard. 55 
Hence Symmachus translated it "makes a sign/ 3 The LXX, 
reading the passive (niphal) of the verb, has "was signed 35 ; and 
Origen applies it to the spiritual impress upon the mind of him 
who contemplates God. 

IX, 2. laying aside the nature of a soul it becomes spiritual] So also 



ON PRAYER 341 

inlnjoh., I, 28, Origen speaks of a man's soul becoming mingled 
with his spirit, with the result that he becomes spiritual. 

IX 3 3. Jeremiah] Origen apparently quotes from memory. 
There is nothing about bearing no mance in the passage of 
Jeremiah (7:22, 23) to which he refers. The words: "Let no 
one bear malice against his neighbour in his heart 55 are a loose 
reference to Zech. 7:10: "Let no one bear malice in your hearts 
as concerning the evil done by his brother. 55 Another explana- 
tion of the confusion is that the shorthand writer may himself 
have been confused and have failed to reproduce Origen's dicta- 
tion accurately. But there are other indications (see XXVIII, 7; 
XXX, 3; XXXI, 7) that Origen relied too much on his recol- 
lection of Scripture passages. 

IX 3 3. putting aside such malice in coming to pray] Perhaps here 
again we may find an echo of the wrongs Origen suffered before 
leaving Alexandria. See VIII, i, note. 

IX, 3. "If ye stand praying"] See note on II, 2. 

X, i. "while" he "is yet speaking"} This reference to Isa. 58:9 
occurs also in a similar connection in In Joh., XXVIII, 6, and 
in Clement of Alexandria, Strom., VII, 7:49 (end). 

X, i. by the power of him who "hears in heaven"} An emendation 
of the Anonymous, who reads ev ovpavcp for cvopcov with a 
reference I Kings 8:30. 

X, i . it having been written of the previous trial] Koetschau thus 
emends the text of T, which runs, "it having been written of the 
trial before it.' 3 

X, 2. who stands in the midst even of those who know him not] An 
allusion to John 1 126, which, together with Jer. 23:23, 24, is also 
referred to in contra Celsum, V, 12, where Origen says that the 
Christ of God is present, not only with those who cleave to him, 
but also everywhere with those who know him not. 

X, 2. "at midnight"] The reading of T /i^owwmov appears to 
be a mistake for ^aowKrLov y as the Anonymous notes. 

XI, i. the angels . . . the souls of the saints] Cf. XXXI, 5, 
where there is also a reference to the Book of Tobit. See also 
contra Celsum, VIII, 34. 

XI, i. Tobit] Here and in contra Celsum, V, 19, the name is 
spelt I^/tyr. 

XI, i. "the Scripture says"] Tobit 3:16, 17. But in XIV, 4, 
Origen notes that "they of the circumcision . . . reject the book of 
Tobit as uncanonicaL 55 The citations from Tobit in this section 
follow the text of B and A, not that of 8. 

XI, i. "Jeremiah"] An example of a departed saint who prays 



342 ORIGEN 

for those on earth. II Maccabees 15:14 is also quoted for the 
same purpose in In JoL, XIII, 58. 

XI, 2. what had been prepared for, etc.] I follow the text as 
emended by the Anonymous. 

XI, 2. one of the chiefest virtues} Cf. XXIX, 8 (end): "the 
most beautiful thing to be found among men, namely, charity." 

XI, 2. Christ also acknowledges., etc.] For a similar thought and 
reference to the parable of the sheep and the goats, cf. In Jerem. 
horn., XIV, 7 (CJB.,VI, 112). 

XI, 3. How many angels, etc.] The Anonymous scholar ob- 
serves that the question is not the number of angels but their 
ministry. He would therefore read TTCUS- OVK for -rroaovs it must 
be that angels work more for the building up of the Church 
than did the apostles; and he refers to contra Celsum, VIII, 34, 
and In Joh., XXXII, 17. 

XI, 3. Do not they, even more than the apostles, work together] This 
passage does not fully express Origen's thought concerning the 
relationship of angels to churches. Not only do angels help the 
apostles to carry out the work of evangelization, but they are 
the heads in the invisible order of the churches as the apostles 
(and the bishops) are in the visible sphere. When the Apocalypse 
speaks of angels of churches, invisible rulers are indicated. Thus 
each church possesses at one and the same time a visible bishop 
and an invisible angel. "One might almost say, if we follow 
Scripture, that there are two bishops for each church: the one 
perceptible and visible and the other invisible [1/0777-0$-]. And 
just as a man, if he has faithfully exercised the charge committed 
to him is praised: so also an angel" (In. Luc. horn., XIII; CJ9., 
XXXV, 91). Cf. In. Mm. horn., XI, 4 (CJ3. 9 XXX, 82 ff.). See 
also J. Danielou, Origene, 240. 

XI, 4. the general command] See Heb. 1:7, 14. Angels are 
ministers (Aetroupyol) of God, and are sent forth for the salvation 
of believers. 

XI, 5. joins in our prayers'] Cf. contra Celsum, VIII, 64. 

XII, i. the exhortations of Jesus] E.g., Luke 18:1, "men ought 
always to pray, and not to faint, 35 and 2 1 :36, "watch ye at every 
season, making supplication." 

XII, i. It goes forth ... or by faith] The text as emended by 
the Anonymous scholar has been followed. The general sense of 
the passage is not in doubt, and even Koetschau admits that 
some emendation is necessary. T has: "It goes forth like a dart 
from the soul of him who prays by knowledge and reason or by 
faith from the saint." 



ON PRAYER 343 

XII, 2. virtuous deeds or commandments being included as part oj 
prayer] Cf. In Matt., XVI, 22 (C.5., XL, 551) "'My house 
shall be called the house of prayer.' For there should be nothing 
else in the Church besides prayer, every good deed also inviting 
the attention of God, being reckoned as prayer by God, in 
accordance with which the saying e pray without ceasing' be- 
comes possible." It is clear, therefore, that Origen did not re- 
gard the contemplative life and the practical life as distinct. 

XII, 2. three times every day] Cf. Clement of Alexandria, 
Strom., VII, 40. 

XII, 2. "In the morning," etc.] In this quotation from Ps. 5:3 
Origen apparently alters 'Voice' 5 (Hebrew and LXX) to 
"prayer" in the first half of the verse. In the second half the 
object of "I will order" has to be supplied from the sense; and 
the Revised Version adds "my prayer." 

XIII, i. perhaps he would not have received it without prayer] Cf. 
In Joh., XIII, i : "The opinion may perhaps be held that no one 
who does not ask it receives the heavenly gift. Certainly, in the 
psalm the Father urges the Son himself to ask that it shall be 
given him, even as the Son similarly teaches us, saying: 'The 
Lord said unto me, Thou art my Son, ask of me and I will give 
thee the heathen for thine inheritance, and the utmost parts of 
the earth for thy possession.'" 

XIII, 2. Samuel, who was reckoned along with Moses] Cf. In I 
Sam. horn., XXVIII, 3 (C.B., VI, 285): "Moses who has been 
coupled with Samuel, according to the saying [Jer. 15:1]." 

XIII, 2. Hezekiah, when as yet he was childless] Origen bases 
this statement on the prayer of Hezekiah, when he was re- 
covered of his sickness, as given in the LXX of Isa. 38:19, "From 
henceforth I will beget children, who shall proclaim thy right- 
eousness, O Lord of my salvation," a passage which Origen 
quotes in contra Celsum, VIII, 46. The Hebrew Scriptures speak 
of one child Manasseh born three years after the illness of 
his father (II Kings 20:6; 21:1). 

XIII, 2. "a whistling dewy wind"] Trvevpa Spoaov Siaavpi&v. 
A detail wholly absent from the Hebrew, which is found in the 
Greek versions, LXX, and Theodotion, of Dan 3:50. The phrase 
is referred to again in XIII, 4, "fire of dew," and also in XVI, 3, 
"the material dew which conquered the flame kindled by 
Nebuchadnezzar." Tertullian, De Oratione, XXIX, also refers 
to "the angel of dew in mid-fires" ("roris angelum in mediis 
ignibus": P.L., I, 1195). 

XIII, 3. have they fallen in with, etc.] This is the reading of T. 



344 ORIGEN 

Probably read "have we fallen in with, and by our prayers/' 
etc. 

XIII, 4. "Egypt" is "an iron furnace" being a symbol, etc.] Gf. 
In Jerem. horn., IX, 2 (C.B., VI, 66). 

XIII, 4. of what great fish . . . type, etc.] Similarly in In Levit. 
horn., VIII, 2 (C.B., XXIX, 397 f.) Origen speaks of the "great 
fish" which swallowed Jonah as the type of that referred to in 
Job 3:8, and identifies it with the devil. 

XIII, 5. "this great thing, which the Lord doeth before your eyes' 3 ] 
I Sam. 12:16. Here and lower down in this section Origen reads 
"doeth" for "will do" of the LXX. It being wheat harvest, i.e., 
May-June, it was a season when thunder and rain were almost 
unknown in Palestine. Such a period is likened by Origen to a 
period of spiritual drought when the "thirsty soul" longs for 
the "refreshing grace" of God. 

XIV, i. so that we may obtain in truth what they obtained in figure] 
1 follow the emendation of the Anonymous. T has "so that we 
may ask them" (sc. "the prayers"), which is obviously corrupt. 
"The prayers of the saints" here mentioned are clearly the 
prayers of the Old Testament saints, which Origen refers to in 
XIII, 2. They prayed for, and obtained, material blessings: but 
Christians can command spiritual blessings of which the former 
are but a symbol and type. 

XIV, i. will supply unto you] So Bentley and the Anonymous 
read, emending T which has "may supply unto you." If the 
reading of T is retained, the construction is "so that . . . the 
earthly and little things . . . the Father may supply," etc. 

XIV, 2. four nouns, etc.] See Introduction, pp. 206 f. 

XIV, 2. in a dignified manner] Greek p,yaXo<f>ve<jrpov. The 
word is not easy to translate, but its meaning here may be 
illustrated from contra Celsum, IV, 31: "stately and dignified 
[cr/vov Kal /ieyoAo^es'] is this prohibition of theirs 'Lift not 
thine eyes up to heaven,' etc. [Deut. 4:19]." 

XIV, 3. Examples of the first of these terms] i.e., of "supplica- 
tion," the object of which, according to Origen, is "the obtain- 
ing of something which a person lacks." But only in the case of 
the first of the four examples given is the object indicated. 

XIV, 4, obelized] The obelus was one of the critical signs used 
from the third or second century B.C. by the grammarians of 
Alexandria, and said to have been first employed by Aristarchus 
in connection with his edition of Homer. The word means "a 

spit," and it was usually represented by a straight line , with 

or without accompanying dot or dots ; ; : . It was 



ON PRAYER - 345 

originally used to mark passages which the critic wished to cen- 
sure. In the Hexapla Origen prefixed the obelus to words or lines 
which were wanting in the Hebrew; and this is precisely the 
meaning of the verb "obelize" here. See H. B. Swete, Introduc- 
tion to the Old Testament in Greek,, 69 ff. 

XIV, 4. "with a song"] LXX: ^erd d>$ijs (Hab. 3:1). The 
Hebrew is al Shigionoth (Revised Version "set to Shigionoth"). 
This word is apparently the plural of Shiggaion, found in the 
title ^of Psalm 7, and usually held to denote a poem of a wild, 
passionate character with rapid changes of rhythm. But the 
LXX read, doubtless correctly, al Neginoth (as in the title 
of Psalm 4, etc.) "with music of stringed instruments." In 
Hab. 3:19 the LXX translation of d Neginothai is cv rfj 



avrov. 



XIV, 4. "in the midst of the two living creatures"] So the LXX 
reads in Hab. 3:2. The Hebrew has "in the midst of the years." 
In De Prim., I, 3, 4 (C.S., XXII, 53) Origen states it as his 
opinion that the two living creatures (a>an>) are the Son and the 
Holy Spirit. Justinian fastened on this passage (Ep. ad Mennarn: 
P.G. 9 LXXXVI^gSs) as implying Origen's belief that the Son 
and the Holy Spirit were created beings; but he failed to prove 
his assertion. See the note of the Anonymous in the edition of 
W. Reading, pp. 73, 74. This note, incidentally, indicates how 
clearly the Anonymous perceived the untrustworthiness of 
Rufinus's translations: "si qua omnino fides Interpret! Rufino 
sit habenda." 

^ XIV, 4. an excellent illustration of the definition of prayer] But on 
his own definition "prayer," for Origen, includes "a request to 
God for certain things." There is, however, no such request in 
Hab., ch. 3, which is an example of the wider use of the term 
"prayer*^ in the Old Testament as an elevation of the mind to 
God which does not necessarily include petition. 

XIV, 5. intercession] Though I have retained this translation 
of evTevgis, the Greek word does not necessarily involve what 
the English does, namely prayer in relation to others. But it im- 
plies, as Origen correctly observes, a free, confident approach 
to God. See Trench, Synonyms of the New Testament, 189 f. 

XIV, 5. intercedes exceedingly} See footnote in text of II, 3. 

XIV, 5. if we use the terms in their proper sense} It is essential to 
bear in mind, if we are to follow Origen's argument, how he 
defines "prayer" in section 2 of this chapter. 

XIV, 6. supplication . . . addressed to holy men also} The text of 
T reads simply "men"; but some alteration is required in view 



346 ORIGEN 

of the words "if these may be addressed to holy men" lower 
down in this section. 

XIV, 6. other men} Here also T reads "men." Koetschau, 
following Klostermann, inserts "other." The Anonymous 
suggests "all men." 

XIV, 6. supplication is addressed to the saints only] The reference 
is obviously to living saints. Note the words: "If, for example, 
a Paul or a Peter can be found" (elns wptQeiri UavXog tf Tlerpo?) 
not "Paul or Peter." The interpretation of G. Dix, The Shape 
of the Liturgy, 346, appears to be incorrect. 

XIV, 6. Making us worthy to receive the authority] Light is 
thrown upon this passage by XXVIII, 9. The apostles received 
through the Holy Spirit the authority to forgive sins. Others 
like them ("a Paul or a Peter"), who are led by the Spirit as 
sons of God, have a similar authority. Like the prophets they 
are speaking not the things of their own but of the divine will. 
See W. H. Frere in The Early History of the Church and Ministry, 
ch. V, p. 292. 

XIV, 6. Stephen] Acts 7:60. But in the previous verse we read 
of him "calling upon (the Lord) saying, Lord Jesus, receive my 
spirit" clearly a "prayer." 

XV, i. but only to the God and Father of all] For this limitation 
concerning prayer (in the proper sense of the term according to 
Origen), see Introduction, pp. 187 f., 231, 

Gf. contra Celsum, V, 4: "Every supplication and prayer and 
intercession and thanksgiving is to be offered to God who is over 
all through the high priest who is above all the angels, the living 
Word and God. But we shall supplicate the Word himself and 
intercede with him and give thanks, yes and pray also, if we 
are able to pay attention to the correct use and the abuse of 
terms concerning prayer." The concluding words, if they are 
to be brought into line with De Orat., XV, i, must mean that 
"prayer" in the looser, but not in the stricter, sense may be 
addressed to Christ. 

On similar lines is contra Celsum, VIII, 13: "We worship the 
one God and his one Son and Word and Image with entreaties 
and requests according to our ability, bringing our prayers to 
the God of the universe through his only-begotten: to whom first 
we offer them, counting him worthy who is the propitiation for 
our sins to bring as a high priest our prayers and sacrifices and 
intercessions to the God who is over all." 

A less decisive passage is contra Celsum, V, n (end): "And 
although one may not be so great (as the sun), nevertheless let 



ON PRAYER 347 

such a one pray to the Word of God as able to heal him, and 
much more to his Father, who sent his Word to them of old 
time and healed them and delivered them from their afflictions." 

On the other hand, a different point of view is indicated in 
In Rom., VIII, 5: "If therefore Enoch and Moses and Aaron and 
Samuel called upon the Lord, and he heard them, doubtless 
they called upon Christ Jesus as Lord: and if to call upon the 
name of the Lord and to pray to the Lord are one and the same 
thing, as God is called upon, Christ is to be called upon; and as 
God is prayed to, so also Christ is to be prayed to; and as we 
offer prayers to God the Father first of all, so also to the Lord 
Jesus Christ; and as we offer requests to the Father, so we offer 
requests to the Son also; and as we offer thanksgiving to God, 
so also we offer thanks to the Saviour" (P.G., XIV, iiGsf.). 
But as this passage is found only in the Latin translation of 
Rufinus, it may have been altered in the interests of orthodoxy. 

The Anonymous, however, in a learned and able note (Read- 
ing, 78 f.), confining himself to a consideration of those passages 
in which the Greek is extant, endeavours to make Origen con- 
sistent with himself. He maintains that in the passage of the De 
Oratione Origen is speaking of Christ only under the aspect of 
"high priest and advocate" (see XV, 4), and therefore insists 
that Christ qua mediator is not to be prayed to; but that when 
Origen is referring to Christ as Word or Son of God (e.g., in 
contra Celsum V, 4 and V, n) he says something different. The 
Anonymous also draws attention to the limited connotation of 
the word "prayer" as used in the De Oratione here. 

XV, i. "Teach us to pray" . . . "Our Father," etc.] Origen 
here confuses Matthew and Luke. The words "Teach us to 
pray" come from Luke 11:2, but "Our Father," etc., from 
Matt. 6:9. Indeed, in XVIII, 2, Origen gives the text of the 
prayer in Luke as "Father, Hallowed be thy name," etc. 

XV, I. the Son is different from the Father in person and subject] 
erepos . . . /car* ovcriav Kal VTTOK^I^VOV (-09 r) zarw o vies rov 
7rarpo$. Apparently Origen uses ovo-ia here in the sense of Per- 
son (that which distinguishes the Son from the Father) ; as he 
also does in In Joh., II, 23, where he argues that because the Son 
is called light and the Father is called light, it does not follow 
that the Son is not in ovvia (i.e., Person) different from the 
Father. Cf. also In Joh^ I, 28 fin. and contra Celsum, VI, 64. 
VTroKeifAevos is similarly used in In Jerem. hom., VIII, 2 (C.B., 
VI, 57). A similar use of the term ovaia appears in Eusebius, 
H.E., VI, 33, in describing the heresy of Beryllus of Bostra, 



348 ORIGEN 

whom Origen converted to orthodoxy. On the other hand, 
ovcria and viroKelyizvos are distinguished in In Jo A., X, 37, 
ovcrla meaning "essence," and vTroKeifjwos "person" or "subject." 
See Bigg, 203 (note), Bethune Baker, 149, F. Prat, Origene 
172. 

XV, i. in accordance with the words "he sware"] The Anony- 
mous would read "the Lord sware" following Ps. 109:4 (LXX) 
and Heb. 7:21. 

XV, 2. it is not fitting that a man . . . should pray to him who 
prays] Cf. contra Celsum, V, 1 1 . 

XV, 2. had given this teaching] An emendation of the Anony- 
mous, followed by Koetschau. T reads "shall give." 

XV, 2. no one had "asked the Father"] In XXII, i, Origen 
points out that nowhere in the Old Testament is God called 
"Father" in prayer. 

XV^ 3. named Jerusalem] Actually "Sion" is the word used 
(Isa. 49:14). 

XV, 4. he who said . . . might also say] This emendation by 
Delarue makes it clear that the words put into the mouth of the 
Son, which follow, are merely hypothetical. 

XV, 4. "Why callest thou me good?"] This quotation from 
Mark 10:18 is a favourite one with Origen when he touches on 
the subordination of the Son to the Father. Cf. contra Celsum^ 
V, n; In Joh., I, 35; II, 13; XIII, 36; also VI, 47; XIII, 25; 
Exhort. 7. See H. B. Swete, ad loc. 

XV, 4. "one" Father with him] Reading avra> for avr&v with 
Bentley and the Anonymous. 

XV, 4. to the Father alone with me and through me] i.e., in com- 
pany with me (as your brother) and through me (as your 
mediator) * 

XVI, i. either with the Father or apart from the Father] Cf. the 
letter of Theophilus Alex., as translated by Jerome (C.V., LV, 
148, 149) "cum legeretur ... in alio libro, qui c de oratione' 
scribitur: e non debemus orare filium, sed solum patrem, nee 
patrem cum filio,' obturavimus aures nostras," etc. See Intro- 
duction, p. 231. 

XVI, 2. the command to ask for "heavenly" and "great" things'] 
Cf. In Matt., XVI, 28 (C.B., XL, 571). 

XVI, 2. the shadow of the bodily object] The illustration may be 
found puzzling if it is not perceived that in the case of a human 
giver "the bodily object" is the important thing, "the shadow," 
which it casts, is unimportant; but in the case of the divine 
Giver, the heavenly, spiritual gifts are what really matter, the 



ON PRAYER 349 

earthly blessings are the "shadows" of the heavenly things, and 
are quite inferior. It is the will of God to give us heavenly 
things: the bodily blessings, which are "added" (Matt. 6:33), 
are merely their natural accompaniments. 

XVI, 3. material dew] See note on XIII, 2. 

XVI, 3. Does it not follow, etc.] A free translation is given of 
this sentence, following an emendation of Bentley. In any case, 
Origen's meaning is clear. Jonah and his physical deliverance is 
typical of the spiritual deliverance of those who look to Jesus as 
Saviour. 

XVI, 3. the great fish] i.e., allegorically, the devil, with refer- 
ence to Job 3:8, as is apparent from In Joh., I, 17, and De Prim.., 
IV, 5 (CJB., XXII, 300). 

XVII, i . This chapter is an example of the imperfect arrange- 
ment, due no doubt to its hasty composition, that is to be 
found here and there in the De Oratione. Obviously it ought to 
follow XVI, 2, immediately. In that section, q.v., Origen speaks 
of the "shadows," i.e., earthly blessings, which accompany, as 
a natural consequence, spiritual blessings. He now qualifies this 
statement. Just as in some latitudes and at some times the 
gnomon of the sun-dial gives no shadow, or a greater or less 
shadow, so God's spiritual gifts are sometimes accompanied by 
no earthly blessings or only to a more or less degree. This will 
cause the spiritually minded man no real concern. He who re- 
joices in the sunlight will pay no attention to the presence or 
absence of a shadow on the dial; neither should we, in the pre- 
sence of God's spiritual gifts, take thought concerning material 
blessings, whether they be given or not. 

XVII, i .problems connected with sun-dials] Cf. Pliny, Nat.Hist. 9 II, 
(72) 74-(76) 78, where the variations, according to latitude, 
of shadows on the sun-dial are discussed. 

XVII, 2. "a kingdom" of Christ "that cannot be shaken"] Cf. 
Heb. 12:28. An emendation of Bentley. T reads "a kingdom of 
Christ of those who reign," which has been emended to "a 
kingdom of Christ, king of those who reign" (Klostermann), 
with reference to I Tim. 6:15, and "a kingdom of Christ who 
reigns" (Anonymous). 

XVIII, i. you who read this book will judge'] The gift of the 
Spirit for discernment being the possession of all Christians (cf. 
I Cor. 2), the readers of the De Oratione will be able to dis- 
cover if it possesses the marks of the spirit. 

XVIII, i. outlined] vmypajtfreurav, i.e., written as a model 
or example of prayer. The verb is used for tracing letters for 



35O ORIGEN 

children to write over: cf. I Pet. 2:21, * leaving us an example 



XVIII, i. with what power it has been filed] Origen examines 
the text of the Lord's Prayer from no merely critical or intel- 
lectual standpoint: for him its inspiration, in the sense of power 
to inspire, is paramount. Cf. John 20:31: "These are written 
. . . that believing ye may have life in his name." See also H. de 
Lubac, Histoire et Esprit , 125 ff. 

XVIII, 2. The text of Matthew . . . Luke's text} See Intro- 
duction, pp. 213 f. 

XVIII, 3. It is better to take the view that the prayers are different} 
Origen forms this judgment simply from the prayers as they lay 
before him in the Gospels, and from this point of view his con- 
clusions are reasonable and sound. We should today approach 
the problem rather from the findings of source-criticism of the 
Gospels, the Jewish antecedents of the Prayer, and its liturgical 
use in the primitive Church, laying less stress than Origen does 
upon its context in the Gospels. It is easier, therefore, for us to 
hold the view that an original nucleus transmitted from the 
Lord has resulted in two different forms, one of which has be- 
come almost universal under the influence of liturgical tradition. 

XVIII, 3. we searched also} For a similar kind of search, see 
XXII, i. 

XIX, i. must first be settled and disposed, etc.] Cf. VIII, 2- 
X, 2. It is not surprising that Origen, as a master of the spiritual 
life, lays stress on this; but it is characteristic of him that he 
seeks for and cites Scriptural support for his view. 

XIX, 2. his accustomed oath] A heightened description of the 
formula "Verily, I say unto you/ 5 which occurs some seventy 
times in the Gospels. 

XIX, 2. "They have received their reward"} The verb used in 
Matt. 6:2, 5, is aTrexoucrt, which means, in the light of its usage 
in papyri,^ "they have given their receipt" and therefore 
cannot claim anything further in that respect. 

XIX, 2. he did not "sow unto the Spirit"} The passage in Gal. 
6:6-1 o has much in it about doing good to others, and its re- 
ward. And this suggests to Origen its co-ordination with the 
passage in Matt. ch. 6, referred to in the previous note. 

XIX, 3. stands in it, etc.] The text followed is that as emended 
by Koetschau ("if any alteration is necessary"), except that he 
takes "through love of pleasure" with the preceding clause. T 
has; "stands in it not well, praying in the corners of the streets, 
through love of pleasure frequenting not one but several 



ON PRAYER 351 

streets." Bentley conjectured: "stands in it, praying not other- 
wise in the corners of the streets than through love of pleasure 
frequenting," etc. The Anonymous conjectured: "in which he 
stands not well who prays in the corners of the streets through 
love of pleasure," etc. At the background of these references to 
"twists" and "corners" and "not one but several streets" is the 
Greek idea, to which Origen gives expression in XXI, 2, that 
virtue is one, vice is many. 

XIX, 3. fallen from their deity] In contra Celsum, III, 37, 
Origen says that Christians through the only-begotten God the 
Word "partake of deity"; and in De Orat., XXIII, 5, he speaks 
of those "to whom appertains a certain divine glory and power 
and so to speak an effluence of his deity." Again, in 
XXIV, 4, we read, "when a man partaking of an effluence of 
deity exalts that very power of God of which he has partaken." 
See also IX, 2, and XXV, 2. 

XX, i. a difference between the Church and the synagogue] The 
point of this strange and rambling argument is that, according 
to the Scriptures, from the "church" (the ecclesia of the LXX of 
Deut. 23:2) the type of person there mentioned and strangers 
were excluded, because it was holy and without blemish; but 
the "synagogue" could be built by a Gentile (Luke 7:5). This 
indicates the inferiority of the synagogue, and so to "the 
synagogue" is given that moral connotation which in the pre- 
vious section is given to "the corners of the streets." Historically 
considered, the basis of this distinction is that Christians took 
over as the name of their society the word ecclesia from the Jews, 
leaving almost entirely to their use the word "synagogue" 

XX, i . love . . . has a deep concern] There is clearly a distinc- 
tion here between the meaning of <t>i\el and aya7ra t whether 
or not such a distinction holds generally. (f>i\i has in this pas- 
sage a definite suggestion of natural desire and of self-pleasing 
a meaning that is helped out by the wider context, in which 
(XIX, 3) we read of "love of pleasure" (<f>i\rfiovia) and "lovers 
of pleasure" (^tA^Sovot) . aywnq, on the other hand, describes 
the desire of a person whose thoughts are centred, not on self or 
his fellow-men, but on God, and who seeks to tread the narrow 
way of self-discipline. 

XX, i. that he "may appear before the Lord God"] i.e., as a true 
Israelite who belongs to the ecclesia, which is now the Christian 
Church. 

XX, i . he is a male person] The Christian corresponds to the 
male under the Old Covenant, who was required to appear 



352 ORIGEN 

before the Lord, since in prayer he appears not unto men to 
pray but unto God. 

XX, 2. nothing that is seen is good] A textual quotation from 
Ignatius, Romans, 3. Koetschau refers to several passages in 
Origen (contra Celsum, IV, 93; VII, 13; VIII, 13, 36; Exhort., 12) 
in which he detects echoes of Ignatius; but strangely enough he 
fails to note this direct quotation. 

XX, 2. The actors of a drama in a theatre] The illustration is 
doubtless suggested by the fact that the word wro/cpmys- which 
occurs in Matt. 6:5 in the sense of "hypocrite" also means 
"actor. 55 Cf. XXVIII, 3. 

XX, 2. he "shuts" every "door" of the faculties of sense] Cf. IX, 2. 

XXI, i. do not let us use vain repetitions] We have kept the 
Authorized Version and Revised Version rendering of Matt. 
6:7, although it is doubtful if it is correct, and still more doubt- 
ful if it expresses the meaning that Origen took out of batto- 
logia. Both here and in VIII, i (q.v.), he connects the word, at 
any rate in part, with the practice of asking God for "bodily" 
or "outward" or "earthly" things. On the contrary, in prayer 
we are to "speak to God," that is to him, as we are taught in the 
Lord's Prayer, who is "our Father, which art in heaven"; and 
since he is "in heaven" we shall ask him for "heavenly things." 
Battologia, therefore, includes (a) asking for the wrong things 
and (b] forgetfulness of the true character of him to whom we 
pray. Possibly Origen would not disagree with Hesychius, who 
defined it as argologia^ "idle speech." 

XXI, i. examine for blemishes] iMopoaKOTrovvres. In the LXX 
fi^os* is a flaw or blemish which vitiates a person or thing for holy 
purposes. The use of the verb is confined to Jewish (e.g., Philo) 
and Christian writers. It is suitable in this context because 
Origen goes on to speak of "the words of prayer offered up 
(avaTTe^Tro/xei/ous-)," and this verb is used in the Martyrdom 
of Polycarp, in Justin Martyr, and in the Greek Liturgies, as 
well as in Clement of Alexandria and Origen, of offering 
up prayer to the throne of grace. (Lightfoot on Mart. Polyc., 

-A. VI. 

XXI, 2. he who speaks mucK] With a reference to "much 
speaking" in Matt. 6:7. It is clear from this section that "much 
speaking" is "ill speaking." And indeed in a fragment from his 
Commentary on John (Brooke, II, 230; Ptelocdia, ed. J. 
Robinson, 45) Origen says that "he who utters anything what- 
ever that is foreign to godliness speaks much." The moral con- 
notation which he places upon "much speaking" is obviously 



ON PRAYER 353 

connected with the conception in his mind (see the note 
following) that vice is many. 

XXI, 2. virtue is one, vice is many] A characteristically Platonic 
doctrine. Cf. Rep., IV, 4450: "while there is only one form of 
virtue, there are infinite varieties of vice." Similar statements 
about the unity of virtue may be found in, e.g., Prot^ 32gcd, 
Meno 72c. Any virtue we attempt to explain must, according to 
Plato, be defined as "the knowledge of what is good"; so that 
every virtue "seems on examination to cover the whole field of 
the conduct of life, and none can be in principle distinguished 
from any other" (A. E. Taylor, Plato, The Man and His Work, 
64). Cf. Xenophon, Mem., Ill, 9:5: "[Socrates] said that justice 
and every other virtue is wisdom. 33 The Pythagoreans had also 
held the unity of virtue; but Aristotle, who criticized on this 
point Platonic doctrine (Pol., I, 13), praises them at the expense 
of the Platonists, in that they, sc. the Pythagoreans, made the 
One good, instead of the good one (Eth. Me., I, 4:1096^. Thus, 
in constructing (after the fashion of the time) a double column 
of good and bad things, respectively, (see Lightfoot on Gal. 
4:25), they would place "the one" and "the good" in the same 
column, and "the many" and "the bad," opposite them, in the 
other (Aristotle, Met., I, 5:g86a). Platonists, on the contrary, as 
Origen does here, would head one column "The One" and the 
other "The Many," and place underneath good things and bad 
things, respectively. In other words, Origen follows the 
Platonists in making the good an abstract unity. Possibly Paul 
had this idea of "the one" and "the many" in his mind when 
he spoke (pace the English Litany) of the fruit of the Spirit and 
the works of the flesh (Gal. 5:19, 22); 

XXI, 2. after the likeness of the serpent] The reference is to the 
LXX of Ps. 57:4, 5: "Sinners were estranged from the womb, 
they went astray from the belly,, they spoke falsehood; their 
mind is after the likeness of the serpent." The words "false- 
hood" and "estranged," which occur earlier in this section, 
seem to have suggested to Origen's too susceptible mind their 
use in this Psalm, and so led him to refer to the "serpent," 
which otherwise appears inconsequential. 

XXII, i. the Old Testament, as it is called] The phrase may 
suggest that "Old Testament" was not yet an absolutely settled 
title for the first portion of the Bible. In the previous century, 
however, c. 170, Melito of Sardis had spoken of "the books of 
the Old Testament" (ap. Eusebius, H.E., IV, 26, 14), and by 
Origen's time "Old Testament" must have been well on the 

A.C.- 23 



354 ORIGEN 

way to general acceptance as a description of the writings 
embodying the "covenant" that God had made with his 
ancient people Israel. Tertullian testifies for Latin Christianity 
to the title, e.g., in Ado. Marc., IV, 22 (P.L., II, 414) : "oportebat 
in eo suggestu consignari novum testamentum, in quo conscrip- 
tum vetus fuerat." 

XXII, i. a prayer in which someone calls God "Father"] Cf. In 
joh., XIX, 5: "Though there are countless prayers to be found 
written in the Psalms and the prophets and also in the law, we 
did not find a single one in which God is addressed as Father." 
For another passage, emphasizing the distinctive Fatherhood of 
God under the Christian Dispensation, see In Matt., XVII, 36 
(C.B., XL., 702). 

XXII, i. we searched to the best of our ability] Cf. also XVIII, 3, 
"We searched the Gospel of Mark," and III, i, "the word 
'prayer' occurs for the first time, so far as my observation goes." 
This "searching of the Scriptures" must have been a laborious 
task under the conditions of Origen 3 s time, and affords eloquent 
testimony to the pains he took to ensure that his theology was 
formed on the usage of the Bible. 

XXII, 2. those called "sons" are blameworthy] Sections i and 2 
of this chapter, if read by themselves, might suggest the view 
that Christian sonship involves complete freedom from sin; for 
on the one hand Origen contrasts it with what is implied in 
passages of the Old Testament where God rebukes his sons, and., 
on the other, he quotes the words of John, "whosoever is be- 
gotten of God doeth no sin." Other passages from his writings, 
however,, modify or even oppose this inference. In In Matt., 
XIX, 23 (C.5., XL, 416 ff.), Origen contrasts the washing of 
regeneration by water and spirit with the eschatological re- 
generation spoken of in Matt. 19:28. The former cleanses from 
defilement, so that he who is born from above is pure, "if I may 
make so bold to say", "in a glass darkly"; but he who comes to 
the other regeneration will be absolutely pure (Kadapwraros) 
from defilement and will see "face to face." In the washing of 
regeneration we are buried through baptism with Christ; but 
in the regeneration at the last day we shall be conformed to the 
body of Christ's glory. In Jesu Nave horn., XXI, (C.S., XXX, 
431), of which the Latin is extant, is more decisive: "I do not 
think that anyone's heart can become so pure that the thought 
of evil never stains it." See J. Danielou, Origene, 72 f.; Bigg, 
250. 

XXII, 3. "no man speaking in the Spirit of God"] So the Anony- 



ON PRAYER 



mous reads for "no man speaking in the Holy Spirit, 3 ' rightly, 
as the next line shows. 

XXII, 3. numbers of heretics use this title] Origen is thinking 
especially of the followers of Marcion, Basilides, and Valentinus, 
of whom he says (In Jerem. horn., X, 5: C.B., VI, 75 f.): "They 
name the name of Jesus, but they do not possess Jesus; for they 
do not confess him as they ought." 

XXII, 4. acquire an impression ofsonship] aTTO^drrovraL viorrjra. 
The verb is used of "taking an impression of," as a sculptor 
would do. Those who are called to be sons of God bear the 
image or likeness of the Son of God, who is himself the image of 
the invisible God. 

XXII, 4. but also to him who is "in the body"] T has aAAa KO! 
OVTL cv TO) dco/wm. The emendation TO) am of the Anonymous 
seems necessary to make sense. The sons of God are not only 
united with and therefore conformed to the glorified body of 
Christ, but also to Christ in his glorified body. This is accom- 
plished, as Origen points out in the next sentence, by the re- 
newing of their mind: so that mind as well as body bears the 
impress of the divine image. 

XXII, 5. the kingdom of heaven is seated in all those, etc.] 
According to Origen the kingdom of heaven or of God is pre- 
eminently immanent and spiritual. See XXV, i. 

XXIII, i. we are not to suppose that he is circumscribed in bodily 
fashion] Cf. section 3; and for other early statements of the im- 
mensity of God, see Hermas, Shepherd, Mand. i; Clement of 
Alexandria, Strom., VII, 35; Novatian, De Trinitate, XII. 

XXIII, i. "Jesus answered and said unto them"] John 14:23. 
This is an unique reading. All other textual authorities read 
"said unto him" (i.e., unto Judas, not Iscariot, in reply to his 
question). 

XXIII, 3. a tenet which leads to most impious opinions] Both here 
and elsewhere Origen vehemently rejects the notion that God 
has a body. He deals with this opinion in the first chapter of the 
De Principiis and also in In Joh., XIII, 21-25; contra Celsum, 
III, 75; VI 70, 71; VIII, 49; In Gen., I, 13; as well as in this 
passage. It is not hard to understand how such a notion was 
absolutely opposed to Origen's philosophy. But the vigour with 
which he attacks it suggests, what is indeed a fact, that he is 
opposing actual persons who held it. These were of two classes. 
There were the simple-minded, matter-of-fact Christians who 
interpreted everything in the Scriptures literally, and when they 
read in them that God was in a place, or that he had hands or 



356 ORIGEN 

arms, or that he was a consuming fire, they pictured him as 
corporeal in his nature. The Origenistic conception of God was 
one of the chief causes of conflict between the Greek and the 
literalistic Coptic monks in Egypt in the fourth century. See O. 
Chadwick, John Cassian, 15 ff. On the other hand, there were 
the Stoics, who were in part materialists, and conceived of a 
material force inherent in things. The followers of Zeno and 
Chrysippus, for example, and their idea that God has a body, 
are explicitly refuted in contra Celsum, VIII, 49. See de Faye, 
III, 27 ff. (See also Introduction, pp. 193 f.) 

XXIII, 3. what they suppose is a bodily garden] Origen similarly 
allegorizes the Garden of Eden in De Princ., IV, 2 Jin. (cf. 
Philocalia, 24 f.) ; contra Celsum, IV, 39. 

XXIII, 3. they were hidden] Gen. 3:8, according to the LXX. 
The Hebrew has "hid themselves." 

XXIII, 4. We have treated these matters at length in our com- 
mentaries on Genesis} See Introduction, p. 181, and Koetschau, 
I, Ixxvi, who holds that the exegesis of Gen. 3:8, 9, can hardly 
have stood earlier than in the ninth book of the Commentaries 
on Genesis. Eusebius (H.E., VI, 24:2) says that the first eight 
books were written at Alexandria. It follows, therefore, that the 
later books were written after the removal to Caesarea (231 or 
232), and the composition of the De Oratione must be placed 
subsequently to that date. 

XXIII, 4. Deuteronomy] A slip on the part of Origen. "I will 
dwell in them, and walk [in them]" is from II Cor. 6:16, where 
Paul seems to be referring confusedly to several Old Testament 
passages. "I will walk in you" occurs in Lev. 26:12; "the Lord 
thy God will walk in thy camp" in Deut. 23:14. Origen again 
quotes "I will dwell and walk in them," but this time without 
giving a reference, in In Matt., X, 15 (C.B., XL, 20). 

XXIII, 4. every sinner hiding himself from the face of God] This 
emendation of the Anonymous, with ref. to Gen. 3:8, is sup- 
ported by In Jerem. horn., XVI, 4 (C.B., VI, 136) : "Wicked men 
hide themselves from the face of God." 

XXIII, 4. As he dwells in the saints, so also in heaven] Cf. 
Clement of Alexandria, Eel. Proph., 52 (C.B., XVII, 151): "The 
Lord is properly called the heavens, next those who were first 
created, after them the holy men who lived before the Law, such 
as the patriarchs, then the apostles also." 

XXIII, 4. or else he dwells, etc.] The text is doubtful. T reads 
"or else he dwells because of the saints according to the saying: 
'Unto thee, etc. 5 "; Bentley, "or eke because the saints dwell in 



ON PRAYER 357 

heaven. Now the saying: 'Unto thee, etc.' "; the Anonymous fol- 
lowed by Koetschau, "or else he dwells there because of the 
saints in heaven, in accordance with the saying: c Unto thee, 
etc. 5 " (i.e., inserting the words "there" and "in accordance 
with"). Koetschau points out that the quotation "Unto thee, 
etc." goes with what precedes and not with what follows. 

XXIII, 4. by the aid of the Word] T has "by the aid and the 
Word." 

XXIII, 4. Christ . . . heaven . . . his Church . . . earth] For these 
identifications, see further XXVI, 3. 

XXIV, i. The general meaning of the opening sentence is 
not in doubt, but how best to emend the text of T is uncertain. 
I have added the words "He who prays," as suggested by the 
Anonymous, and read "either ... or" with Bentley instead of 
"some times ... at other times." 

XXIV, 2. the I am] T has &v> which has been emended to 
6 &v in accordance with the LXX of Ex. 3:14. 

XXIV, 3. young grass] Greek aypwcms, lit. "dog's-tooth 
grass." 

XXIV, 3. copious rain] Greek vt^ero?, "snowstorm," which 
seems quite unsuitable, unless the word is used simply for 
"rain," for which there is some authority in Nonnus. I have 
accordingly translated it "copious rain," since the Hebrew 
word (pi.) , of which vufxEros is the translation, is derived from a 
root meaning "much or many," and is interpreted as "copious 
showers" by Brown, Driver, and Briggs. 

XXIV, 3. Therefore, when a man perceives] I read Sta rovro for 
ravra, as suggested by the Anonymous scholar. 

XXIV, 3. remembers rather than learns them] This is perhaps 
the only passage in Origen's works where he hints at the 
Platonic doctrine of Anamnesis, namely, that "learning is noth- 
ing but reminiscence" (Phaedo, ysE; cf. Meno, 8iD). If Origen 
lays little emphasis upon this doctrine, Clement of Alexandria 
expressly denies it in Eel Proph., 17 (C.5., XVII, 141): "God 
made us not pre-existing. For if we had pre-existed, we should 
also of necessity know whence we are, and how and for what 
purpose we have come hither." 

XXIV, 4. partaking of an effluence of deity] Cf. IX, 2; XXIII, 5; 
XXIV, 4; and XIX, 3 (note). 

XXIV, 5. the translators] i.e., the Septuagint. 

XXIV, 5. Tatian] An Assyrian by birth, a disciple of Justin 
Martyr, who having been converted to Christianity composed 
c. 165 an Oratio ad Graecos, in which he ridiculed polytheism 



358 ORIGEN 

and Greek philosophy. His Diatessaron or Harmony of the Four 
Gospels dates from c. 170. Returning to the East after many 
travels, he founded the school and sect of the Encratites, whose 
tenets included a rejection of the use of wine and flesh and 
matrimony. They celebrated the Eucharist in water only, hence 
they were called Aquarii. The date of his death is uncertain. 

Origen (contra Celsum, I, 16) refers to the "very great learning' 5 
that Tatian displayed in his Oratio ad Graecos, and there is an- 
other reference, though not by name, to this treatise in contra 
Celsum, IV, 67. But in contra Celsum, VI, 51, the idea that "Let 
there be light" is to be taken as if it were a wish and in the 
optative mood, is associated with a "pestilent heresy, 53 although 
Tatian is not mentioned, as he is here, in the same connection. 
Tatian is also mentioned with disapprobation for this inter- 
pretation of Gen. 1 13 by Clement of Alexandria in the Eel. 
Proph., 38:1 (CJ9., XVII, 148). 

XXIV, 5. his godless thought, "God was in darkness"] We are 
not told why Tatian held this idea. It may be, however, that 
believing, with other gnostics, that the supreme God was in- 
scrutable he interpreted the creation story in such a way as to 
assign the creation of light (whereby God was revealed) to a 
subordinate aeon. God, therefore, expressed a wish "Let there 
be light, 53 and until his wish was carried out by another he him- 
self "was in darkness. 55 

XXV, i , but the kingdom of God is within us] The variations 
from the text of Luke 17:21 ("but 55 instead of "for behold, 53 and 
"us 55 instead of "you 55 ) are not to be regarded as variant read- 
ings. It is evident that Origen does not here quote exactly (he 
changes the order of the Greek in the preceding verse). The 
significant point of the quotation for him is "within you (us) 55 : 
evros vfjiwv, as is clear from the exposition that follows in this 
section. Origen, therefore, does not agree with those modern 
commentators who, in defiance of what seems to be the plain 
meaning of evros, interpret it, with the margin of the Revised 
Version, as "in the midst of 53 or "among. 55 For Origen the 
kingdom is first and foremost immanent and spiritual. Cf. "In 
our hearts all-sovereign reign 55 in Archbishop Whately's hymn: 
"Thou to whom all power is given 35 a paraphrase of the 
Lord 3 s Prayer. 

XXV, i , the saying which I mentioned a short while ago] In XX, 2. 
XXV, i, the reason] Lit. "the ruling principle 55 a favourite 
Stoic term. 
XXV, i. Christ's kingdom] Cf. In Jerem. horn,, XIV, 5 



ON PRAYER 



(C.B., VI, 1 10 f.): "Jesus Christ uprooted the kingdoms of sin 
and overthrew the dwellings of iniquity and made instead of 
these kingdoms righteousness and truth to reign in our souls. 33 

XXV, I. "the prince of this world"] 6 apx<*>v rov aldivos rourov, 
an expression which occurs twice in this section, and also in 
contra Celsum, IV, 93; VIII, 13, 36, is apparently derived from 
Ignatius, Ephesians, 19. See also note on XX, 2. 

XXV, 2, 3. See Introduction, pp. 216 f. The kingdom, 
though immanent and present, is as yet imperfectly realized 
within us. It must be developed, and also be made perfect at 
the consummation of all things. 

XXV, 2. is being deified] Cf. XXVII, 13, and Exhort., 25 
(end), in which passages, as here, the word BeoiroKLaBat, is used. 
W. R. Inge, Christian Mysticism^ 13 (see also pp. 356-368), re- 
marks that "St. Augustine is no more afraid of deificari in Latin 
than Origen of 0om>iU70<u in Greek. The subject is one of 
primary importance to anyone who wishes to understand 
mystical theology; but it is difficult for us to enter into the minds 
of the ancients who used these expressions, both because GO$ 
was a very fluid concept in the early centuries, and because our 
notions of personality are very different." See note on XIX, 3. 

XXV, 3. "Beliar"] This spelling is supported by the best 
textual authorities in II Cor. 6:15; and Origen so spells the 
name here and also in contra Celsum, VI. 43; In Joh.* XIX, 21: 

xrx7"vrTT JTJ' \j y ? y 

XXXII, 24, 30 

^XXV, 3. "the fruits of the Spirit"] Paul speaks of the fruit 
(sing.) of the Spirit. Origen falls into the same inaccuracy as the 
English Litany. 

XXV 3 3. the good things of regeneration] i.e., the regeneration 
referred to in Matt. 19:28. 

XXVI, i . Luke passes over these words in silence] It is noteworthy 
that Origen seems to be unaware of the existence of MSS. con- 
taining "Thy will be done, as in heaven, so on earth" in the 
text of Luke 11:3, inasmuch as these words are found in the 
Codex 8 (? of Egyptian origin) and the Bohairic version. 

XXVI, 2. can be taken with all three clauses] F. H. Chase, The 
Lord's Prayer in the Early Church ( Texts and Studies, vol. I, no. 3, 
pp. 40, 41), gives reasons for holding that the words "as in 
heaven, so on earth" may appropriately be construed with 
"Hallowed be thy name" and "Thy kingdom come" as well 
as with "Thy will be done." It is natural that the thought of God 
as "Father" and "in heaven" "should exercise a continuous 
influence on the petitions which immediately follow, rather 



360 ORIGEN 

than it should at once fall into the background to re-appear at 
a later part of the prayer." Further, many passages of Scripture 
which speak of the coming of the Kingdom are in harmony 
with this interpretation, as for example, I Chron. 29:11; Dan. 
2:44; 7:14; Matt. 3:2; 16:28; Luke 11:20; 17:20; 22:29; Rev. 
11:15. Chase, however, does not notice that Origen had^sug- 
gested it. Bengel on Matt. 6:10 quotes from the Cateckismus 
Romanus put forth by the Council of Trent: "Pas tons erunt 
partes monere fidelem populum verba ilia 'sicut in coelo, et in 
terra,' ad singulas referri posse singularum (trium) primarum 
postulationum, ut, e Sanctificetur nomen tuum, sicut in coelo, 
et in terra.' Item, "adveniat regnum tuum, sicut in coelo, et in 
terra 3 . Similiter, Tiat voluntas tua, sicut in coelo, et in terra. 55 ' 

XXVI, 3. achieve the Father's will as Christ achieved it] The 
verb is xcopetv, which, when used transitively, usually means "to 
contain," "to have room for," and hence "to be capable of/' 
and (as apparently here) "to fulfil." But the expression is 
somewhat strange. 

XXVI, 4. An objector urges that if you allegorize "heaven" 
as "Christ" and "earth" as "the Church," how can Christ say 
after the resurrection, "All authority hath been given to me as 
in heaven so also in earth"? Origen replies 3 in effect, that it was 
Christ as man who said this: as man he co-ordinates himself 
with his disciples for the work of bringing things on earth under 
the subjection of God, and as man united with the Word he has 
received authority over the things in heaven. 

XXVI, 4. being mingled with his deity] A similar passage is In 
Joh^ I, 32: "the man of the Son of God, who has been mingled 
with his deity." 

XXVI, 5. the second difficulty] See section 3 of this chapter. 

XXVI, 5. he who was first formed by the Lord, having been made for 
the angels to play with] Job 40:19 (LXX). The reference is to the 
"behemoth" (v. 15, according to the Hebrew: the LXX has 
wild beasts). Behemoth is the intensive plural ofbehemah, "cattle" : 
the idea that it was the first animal formed is an inference from 
Gen. i :24, where "cattle" is the first living creature named. It 
is usually identified with the hippopotamus. The latter half of 
Job 40:19 is corrupt. That behemoth was made for the angels to 
play with (according to LXX) is an idea paralleled in 41:5: 
"Wilt thou play with him [i.e., leviathan, the crocodile] as 
with a bird?" Cf. also Ps. 104:26, which may be rendered: 
"There is leviathan, whom thou hast formed to play with him." 
It is clear from In Joh^ XX, 22, that Origen allegorizes the 



ON PRAYER 361 

beast referred to in Job 40:19 as the devil, who is the prototype 
of those who are of the earth earthy. 

XXVI, 5. have fallen in mind] Cf. Milton, Paradise Lost, 1, 1254: 

The mind is its own place, and in itself 

Can make a Heav'n of Hell, a Hell of Heav'n, 

A similar line of thought is found in In Jerem. horn., VIII, 2 
(CJ?., VI, 57,58). 

XXVI, 6. he who sins, wheresoever he may be, is earth] A con- 
vincing emendation of Bentley. Cf. "he that doeth the will of 
God is heaven." T has "wheresoever there is earth." 

XXVII, 2. to comprehend more perfectly} The line of thought 
here indicated is characteristic. As those who had been fed with 
material food by Jesus were urged by him to seek for the meat 
which abideth unto eternal life, so we, when we read of "bread" 
in the Lord's Prayer, must not rest upon the thought of a 
material substance, but rather understand it in a higher and 
spiritual sense. See section 5. 

XXVII, 3. The argument that it is unwarrantable to sup- 
pose that "the daily bread" is Christ because the phrase seems 
to speak of some other bread, is countered by an appeal to the 
language of John 6. In that chapter sometimes, e.g., in v. 32, 
the "bread" is spoken of as other than Christ, yet other passages 
(e.g., v. 35) make it clear that the "bread" is Christ, 

XXVII, 3. "which I wil[ give for the life of the world"] John 
6:51. Note that here and in the following section Origen (or 
the MS. T) by including the words "which I will give" before 
"for the life of the world" follows the reading of the Textus 
Receptus. 

XXVII, 4. every kind of food is called bread, etc.] A very 
similar passage occurs in In Joh., X, 17. 

XXVII, 4. ate and drank him} In supplying the words "ate 
and" Koetschau refers to the text quoted above: "Except ye 
eat the flesh of the Son of man and drink his blood," etc. 

XXVII, 4. whenever he is distributed} A reference to John 6 : 1 1 : 
"having given thanks he distributed to them that were set 
down." 

XXVII, 5. Paul, speaking to the Corinthians . . . and in the 
Epistle to the Hebrews] The views of Origen on the authorship 
of Hebrews are sometimes misrepresented. It is true that in an 
excerpt from his homilies on that Epistle, quoted by Eusebius, 
H.E., VI, 25:11-14, Origen gives it as his own opinion that 
"the thoughts are the apostle's, but the style and composition 



362 ORIGEN 

belong to one who called to mind the apostle's teachings, and, 
as it were, made short notes of what his master said." "But who 
wrote the epistle, in truth God knows." It has been hastily con- 
cluded from this that Origen "rejected 53 the Pauline authorship 
of Hebrews. But that is not so. The words "who wrote the 
epistle" mean "who penned the actual words of the epistle." 
Not only in this passage of the De Oratione but frequently else- 
where in his other writings Origen explicitly ascribes Hebrews 
to Paul: e.g. (to mention only passages in which the original 
Greek is extant), In Joh., I, 22; II, 10, 11, 17; X, 14; XIII, 33; 
XX, 32; XXXII, 28; contra Celsum, III, 53; De Orat., XXVII, 
5, 13; Exhort., 44; also in In Joh., I, 2, 18 and De Princ., IV, 13, 
24, where the Epistle is ascribed to "the apostle," and by im- 
plication also in De Orat., XXVII, 15, where "two apostolic 
sayings" are quoted from Ephesians and Hebrews. In this 
Origen followed the view generally held in the Eastern Church 
of his day. Dionysius of Alexandria took the same view in his 
letter to Fabius, Bishop of Antioch (Feltoe, p. 8). 

XXVII, 6. a doctrine foreign to the Father of our Lord Jesus who 
has given the law and the prophets'] A thinly veiled reference to the 
Marcionites, who held that the God of the Old Testament was 
other than the Father of the Lord Jesus Christ. See also XXIX, 
10, 13. 

XXVII, 7. this word "epiousios", etc.] That epiousios is not a 
literary Greek word is undisputed, as Origen says. Strictly 
speaking he does not affirm that neither is it ever used collo- 
quially, but only that it is "not in common use among ordinary 
folk." The suggestion, however, that the evangelists coined the 
word, and the two examples of "biblical" words that he gives 
from the LXX, would appear to indicate that apart from its use 
in the Lord's Prayer he was otherwise quite unfamiliar with it. 
But an apparent example of the use of the word in a papyrus 
account book came to light when Flinders Petrie published in 
1889 a volume entitled Hawara, Biamu and Arsinoe. The text 
of this document is also given in F, Preisigke, Sammelbuch 
griechischen Urkunden aus Agypten, I, 5224. An item in these 
accounts is \ obol for cmoi/o-c . . ., which doubtless should be 
completed emovaiiov. The original document appears to have 
been since lost. On the derivation and meaning of the word, see 
note lower down, G. Klafienbach (Museum Helveticum, vol. VI, 
Fasc. 4 (1949), pp. 216 ff.) believes that the true reading of an 
inscription (no. 419) discovered in Lindos (1902-1914), and 
edited by C. Blinkenberg, is ro> tepel rds *A8dvas tinovaiw, "the 



ON PRAYER 363 

next-following priest of Athene." W. Bauer Worterbuch zum 
Neuen Testament (1952), s.v. crjfj^pov, accepts this. It would seem, 
however, to the present writer that further corroboration of 
this reading is necessary. 

XXVII, 7. it seems likely to have been coined by the evangelists. At 
any rate, etc.] Observe that Origen expresses himself cautiously. 
But the previous note would seem to show that his suggestion is 
incorrect. If epiousios was in use as a non-literary word, no ex- 
planation is required for its appearance in the forms of the 
Lord's Prayer as used by Greek-speaking Christians of the first 
century. The word may have been chosen by the author of Q, 
as the translation of an Aramaic original, and subsequently 
taken over by both Matthew and Luke. On the other hand, if 
the Lord's Prayer in these Gospels is derived from two inde- 
pendent forms of oral tradition (as it may well be), and not 
based upon a common written document, the use of epiousios in 
both would strongly suggest its use also in the common speech. 
It may be an accident that we do not happen to have dis- 
covered another example of it in a papyrus of a non-literary 
character. In literary documents we could not expect to find it. 

XXVII, 7. enotizou] The verb e/om'fccr&u occurs about 
thirty-seven times in the LXX and once (Acts 2: 14) in the New 
Testament. The second person present imperative Ivoori^ov is 
found in Job 33:1, 31; 34:16; 37:14; Isa. 1:2. The word appears 
to be a "Biblical" creation for the purpose of rendering the 
Hiphil of the Hebrew verb 'azan, "to give ear." But it is also 
used in the LXX as the translation of other Hebrew verbs. 
Some scholars have questioned the view that the translators of 
the LXX coined the word. But until examples, which are not 
yet forthcoming, for its use elsewhere have been produced, 
Origen's statement must be allowed to stand. See H. St. J. 
Thackeray, A Grammar of the Old Testament in Greek, 267; J. H. 
Moulton andj. Milligan, The Vocabulary of the Greek Testament, s.v. 

XXVII, 7. akoutieis] T reads in the passage: ris yap TTOTC 

C 77r\ \ / i / ^ ce y //3>3a\, cfs^ 

iLAArjvttiv "%pri<jaTO . . . rrj aKOvriaoTjTt, avrt rov . . . aKovacu 
Trotets 1 "; icrofJLoia rfj ee emovorov" TTpoayyopia. earl KrX. Obviously, 
emendation is necessary: for (i) neither aKovricrdrj-rt, nor any 
form of the passive aKovri&w (a "Biblical" word, like evwrl&aQai) 
occurs in the LXX; and (2) the explanation "thou makest to 
hear" does not in any case fit it. Koetschau, perversely retaining 
dfcourtcr^Tt, emends the explanation to aKoveaBai noUi ere "make 
thee to be heard." The Anonymous scholar reads aKovriaov 
(which occurs in the LXX in S. of Sol., 2:14; 8:13) and 



364 ORIGEN 

aKOvaai rroUt. I suggest a/cozmefc (Ps. 50 (51)110 ec thou shalt 
make (me) to hear"), and aKovaai Tro^aets-; opoia for aKovaai 
iroiets; laopoia. A dittography may lurk in -OTJTI avrl; and WTO/WHO, 
is a suspiciously rare word, whereas opoios is common in Origen. 

XXVII, 7. periousios] This word occurs in the LXX in Ex. 
19:5; 23:22; Deut. 7:6; 14:2; 26:185 always as the translation 
ofsegullak, a special or peculiar possession (in Deut. the Vulg. 
translates peculiaris). In the Hebrew it is preceded only in 
Deuteronomy by the word 'am, "people 53 : but the LXX in every 
case, both in Exodus and Deuteronomy, renders Xaos Trtpiovaios; 
and probably 'am should be restored in the passages in Exodus 
(see A. H. McNeile on Ex. 19:5). Periousios literally means "that 
which is over and above" (from peri and the verb "to be"), 
hence "specially acquired," with a meaning similar to the clas- 
sical egaiperos. Although no clear example of the adjective has 
been found in the papyri, there are many examples of the sub- 
stantive periousia> meaning "superfluity," "abundance." (J. B. 
Lightfoot on / Clem., LXIV; F. J. A. Hort on I Pet. 2:9; W. 
Lock on Tit. 2:14; Moulton and Milligan, s.v.) 

XXVII, 7. each of the two words is derived from "ousia"~\ For the 
derivation of periousios, see above. That epiousios is derived from 
ousia y substance or being, is very unlikely. The only meaning 
quotable in the New Testament (Luke 15:12, 13) or the papyri 
for ousia is "property" or "estate"; and In any case it is unlikely 
that the philosophical meaning would be present in a word 
employed in so simple and ordinary a context as the Lord's 
Prayer. Two other derivations are possible, (i) epienai "to come 
close upon" (Latin instare}: epiousios bread meaning the bread 
of the "immediately following" day (cf. Acts 16:11); or, if the 
prayer were used in the morning, the bread of "that same day." 
This is preferable to (2), the derivation from epi (ten}ousan (the 
participle of the verb "to be") 5 in which case epiousios bread 
would be the bread for "the (day) that is," i.e., for "the current 
day": but no instance of this phrase, in which "day" has to be 
supplied, is forthcoming. The general meaning of epiousios artos 
appears in the Latin diaria (found in a wall-inscription at 
Pompeii), i.e., daily rations for slaves, soldiers, etc. (J. H. Light- 
foot, On a fresh Revision of the New Testament, pp. 2i7fT.;J. H. 
Moulton, A Grammar of New Testament Greek, II, 313 f.; Moulton 
and Milligan, j.z;.; T. W. Manson, The Mission and Message of 
Jesus, 461; G. Kittel, Theologisches Worterbuch gum JV.T., s.v.) 

XXVII, 8. The word "substance'"' ("ousia") in its proper sense 
is commonly used, etc.] This section describes the views on "sub- 



ON PRAYER 365 

stance" of two different schools of philosophy: (i) the Platonists, 
who held that substance is immaterial, and (2) the Stoics, who 
held that substance is the prime matter of existents. 

XXVII, 8. the reality of incorporeal things is primary] Cf. 
Plato, Phaedrus, 2470, "The colourless, formless, and intangible 
truly existing substance, with which all true knowledge is con- 
cerned, holds this region (sc. above the heavens] and is visible 
only to the mind"; Timaeus, 340., "God made the soul to be 
older than the body and prior in birth and worth"; Laws, X, 
8gsA, "the soul is older than the body"; Laws, X, SgsC, "By 
'nature' they mean the origin of things primary; but if soul shall 
be shown to have been produced first (not fire or air, but soul 
first and foremost) : then it would most truly be spoken of as a 
superlatively 'natural' existence"; Laws, X, 8g6C, "we find 
soul to be prior to body, and body secondary and posterior." 
Ps.-Plutarch, De Placitis Philosopkorum, I, 10: "Pythagoras and 
Aristotle [affirm] that the first causes are incorporeal." 

XXVII, 8. state of flux] Cf. H. Diels, Doxographi Graeci, 307: 
"The disciples of Thales and Pythagoras and the Stoics hold 
that matter is changeable and variable and alterable and in a 
state of flux." Hippolytus, Philosophumena, I, 23:1, 2 (C.B., 
XXVI, 27) : "The sect of philosophers called 'of the Academy' 
, . . whose founder was Pyrrho, [affirm] that all substance is in a 
state of flux and changeable and never remains in the same 
place." 

XXVII, 8. if . . . they receive more, etc.] Cf, Timaeus Locrus, 
Trepl i/jvxdsKal Kocrpaj, ch. XIV (Teubner, p. 417): "All nourish- 
ment is brought to the body from the heart as its root through 
the belly as its channel; and if the body receives more moisture 
than that which flows off, there is said to be an increase; but, if 
less, a wasting." 

XXVII, 8. those who hold that the reality . . . of corporeal things 
is primary] Plutarch, Epit. y I, n (Diels, 310): "The Stoics 
[affirm] that all causes are bodily"; cf. Epit., IV, 20 (Diels, 410) : 
"The Stoics say that the voice is a body: for everything that 
does or makes is a body." Hippolytus, Philosophumena, I, 21:1 
(C.B., XXVI, 25), refers to the tenet of the Stoics that "the body 
is the purest of all things." Aetius, I, 3:25 (Stoicorum Veterum 
fragmenta, ed. J. von Arnim, I, 24): "Zeno the son of Mnaseas 
of Citium says that God and matter are the first principles of 
which the one is the cause of action, the other of being acted 
upon." Theodoret, Graecarum qffectionum curatio (P.G., LXXXIII, 
901): "Zeno of Citium, the son of Mnaseas, the disciple of 



366 ORIGEN 

Crates, who began the Stoic heresy, said that God and matter 
are first principles." 

XXVII, 8. the prime matter of existents] Stobaeus, EcL 9 I, 
n:5a (Diels, 457; von Arnim, I, 24): "Zeno affirms that sub- 
stance is the prime matter of existents, and that as a whole it is 
eternal and becomes neither greater nor less." 

XXVII, 8. subject to no alteration} See the last note in this 
section. 

XXVII, 8. substance is without quality or characteristic form] Cf. 
contra Celsum, III, 41: "Let him attend to what is said by the 
Greeks concerning matter without quality in the proper sense of 
the term 3 '; contra Celsum, IV, 56: "the same matter underlying 
all bodies is without quality or characteristic form in the proper 
sense of the term"; cf. also contra Celsum^ IV, 61. Timaeus 
Locrus, ch. I (Teubner, p. 407): "he said that this matter is 
eternal, not indeed immovable, but without shape in itself or 
characteristic form, yet receiving every kind of shape." 

XXVII, 8. is inherent in] Or, perhaps better, "underlies, 3 ' 
reading woWmu with the Anonymous. 

XXVII, 8. movements and stationary conditions'] Kivrjaeis KO! 
a^eWs-. These two terms are not seldom found in opposition 
in Stoic writers, e.g., in Marcus Aurelius, Meditations., XI, 2: 
"So too with the dance, if thou do the like for each movement 
and stationary condition," and in Plutarch, Quaestionum Con- 
vivalium, 7470 (IX, 2): "Dancing consists of movements and 
stationary conditions." 

XXVII, 8. is none the less affected by] Reading efvcu, Tra^r^v 
Se ou8<h> with von Arnim, II, 115. 

XXVII, 8. receptive of every expression of activity] Cf. contra 
Celsum, IV, 57: "That the underlying matter is receptive of 
those qualities which the Creator wishes [to bestow] is firmly 
held by all of us who accept Providence." 

XXVII, 8. the tension] 6 TOVQ$. A force, according to the 
Stoics, in nature and man. It was regarded as holding the 
universe together: cf. Marcus Aurelius, Meditations , VI, 38: 
"Meditate often on the intimate union and mutual inter- 
dependence of all things in the universe. For all things are after 
a manner mutually intertwined, and accordingly all things are 
dear to one another. For they follow in order one upon another 
because of the movement resulting from tension [Sea rty roviK^v 
KivT}aiv] and like spirit and the unification of all substance [ryv 
evaxjw Tfjs otiatasi]? 9 In the soul, "tension," imparted to it by 
atmospheric substance therein existing, was the cause of virtues 



ON PRAYER 367 

and vices. See note on VI, 5, and Plutarch De Stoicorum Repug- 
nantiis, 7 (Teubner, VI, 218): "Cleanthes . . says that 'tension' 
is a stroke of fire, and if there is enough of it in the soul to master 
circumstances, it is called force and power." See de Faye, III, 
123 ff. 

XXVII, 8. substance is in every part subject to change and 
divisible] If this is consistent with what has been said of sub- 
stance above, it must refer to that part of the definition of it 
which says that it "persists through all alteration or change." 
Stobaeus, EcL 9 /, 1 1 :$& (Diels, 457; von Arnim, I, 24) : "Accord- 
ing to Zeno substance is the prime matter of all existents, and 
as a whole it is eternal, neither greater or less. But its parts do 
not always remain the same, but are divided and commingle 
with one another. Through it runs the Logos of the universe, 
which some call fate, just as seed does in the act of generation." 
Cf. also Cicero, Acad., I, 7: "subjectam putant omnibus sine 
ulla specie, atque carentem omni ilia qualitate . . . materiam 
quandam, e qua omnia expressa atque effecta sint; quae una 
omnia accipere possit, omnibusque modis mutari, atque ex 
omni parte." 

XXVII, 9. the living bread which has come down out of heaven, 
being distributed for the mind and the soul] So also Ambrose, De 
Sacramentis, V, 24, referring to this clause in the Lord's Prayer, 
says: "It is not the bread which passes into the body, but that 
bread of eternal life, which supports the substance of the soul. 
Therefore in Greek it is called epiousion." J. H. Srawley in his 
note, ad. loc^ thinks that Ambrose is here dependent upon 
Origen. 

XXVII, 9. either as "milk" . . . or as "herbs" or as "Jlesk"] 
Whereas Ambrose interprets the bread of the Eucharist, given 
for the faithful "daily," Origen's treatment is definitely non- 
sacramental. To feed on the living bread of Christ is to feed on 
his spiritual teachings. And these, according to Origen's 
favourite thought, must be adapted to the several capacities of 
the hearers. See Introduction, p. 199. 

XXVII, 9. There is so-called food which is harmful] Cf. In Joh., 
XIII, 33: "There is also a kind of food which is harmful, such 
as we hear of in the fourth Book of the Kingdoms, when 
certain persons said to Elisha There is death in the pot, O man 
of God'" (II Kings 4:40). 

XXVII, io. "and is safe for them that stay themselves as upon the 
lord"} Some MSS. of the LXX in Prov. 3:18 omit "is safe." 
The Hebrew has: "And happy is every one that retaineth her." 



368 ORIGEN 

See C. H. Toy, ad loc., in the 7.C.C. for readings underlying the 
Greek translation. 

XXVII, 10. or that this was the bread} So the Anonymous 
emends (aprov for rovrov}. 

XXVII, ii. teachings formerly prepared} This slight emenda- 
tion of Delarue brings out clearly the connection with what has 
gone before. As the angels partook of the meal that had been 
prepared for them, so they are also nourished from the store of 
spiritual things that the saint has to offer them. 

XXVII, ii. even Christ acknowledges} An example of Origen's 
penetrating analysis of the words of Scripture, in this case of 
Rev. 3:20. Origen points out that in the feast here mentioned 
Christ is both guest and host: he sups with the man, and the 
man with him; indeed, according to the order of the words, it 
is the man who first entertains the Son of God. This thought of a 
mutual giving and receiving as between God and man runs 
through this and the preceding section, and emerges clearly in 
the "entertainment" that Abraham provides for the angels who 
lodged with him. 

XXVII, 12. he who participates "in the dragon" etc.] A refer- 
ence, as is made explicit, to the LXX of Ps. 73:13, 14, which has 
"dragon" for "leviathan" and "the peoples of the Ethiopians" 
for "the people inhabiting the wilderness." The "dragon" is 
interpreted in the light of Rev. 12:9, where it is identified with 
"the old serpent, he that is called the Devil and Satan," or, as 
Origen says lower down, "the adversary." A similar interpreta- 
tion is found in Theophilus Alex., Ep. pasch., as translated by 
Jerome (P.Z., XXII, 782; C.7., LV, 170): "The food of all the 
wicked is the accursed Devil himself, as the prediction of the 
prophet proclaims, c Thou didst give him as food to the people 
of Ethiopia. 3 " 

XXVII, 12. the Ethiopian spiritually] This use of vorjros is com- 
mon in Origen. Cf. De Princ., IV, 25 (Philocalia, p. 31) : "If then 
the prophecies concerning Judaea and concerning Jerusalem 
and Israel and Judah and Jacob, since we do not take them in a 
fleshly sense, suggest some such mysteries, it would follow that 
the prophecies also concerning Egypt and Egyptians, and 
Babylon and Babylonians, and Tyre and Tynans, and Sodom 
and Gomorrah and the rest of the nations, do not tell simply of 
these Egyptians and Babylonians and Tyrians and Sidonians in 
a bodily sense. For if there are Israelites in the spiritual sense of 
the term, it follows that there are also Egyptians and Baby- 
lonians in the spiritual sense of the term." 



ON PRAYER 369 

XXVII, 13. may be deified] The text of T reads "may deify/' 
which has been corrected into the passive by another hand. The 
thought (for which see also XXV, 2, note) is appropriate to this 
discussion, which is based on the assumption that the epiousios 
bread has a kinship in substance with him who eats it. Cf. 
XXVII, 2 (end): "True bread is that which nourishes the true 
man, who has been made in the image of God, and he who is 
nourished with it also becomes after the likeness of the Creator"; 
XXVII, 9 (end): "Epiousios bread is that which is best adapted 
to the reasonable nature and akin to it in its very substance: it 
provides at once health and vigour and strength to the soul and 
imparts a share of its own immortality (for the Word of God is 
immortal) to him who eats of it." 

XXVII, 13. some one will say that "epiousios" is formed from 
"epienai"] See note on XXVII, 7, p. 364. 

XXVII, 13. this is perhaps the famous period of a thousand years] 
A reference to Rev. 20:4-6, The period was "famous" because 
of the controversy that centred around it in the Church even 
from early times. Among holders of millenarian views prior to 
or contemporary with Origen were Papias, Justin Martyr, 
Irenaeus, Tertullian, and Hippolytus, all of whom interpreted 
the passage of a literal reign of Christ on earth (although it is to 
be noted that the author of Revelation does not use the words 
"on earth"). Naturally, Origen spiritualized the passage after 
the Alexandrine manner; and subsequently Dionysius of Alex- 
andria (ap. Eusebius, H.E., VII, 25) followed on the same lines. 
But the details of Origen 3 s interpretation are not clear. He re- 
gards, however, the "thousand" years as past already and to be 
contrasted with "today." Possibly in some work which is now 
lost he had discussed the passage more fully. 

XXVII, 13. the whole age is reckoned as the space of one of our 
days] Cf. In Matt., XV, 31 (P.O., XIII, 1344 f.; C.B., XL, 442): 
"See if we can speak of the whole present age as in a sense a 
day." 

XXVII, 14. perceive the "frsf*] The Greek is simply "see," 
which apparently here means to "see the inner meaning of." 
An exceptionally spiritual man may, according to Origen, 
understand the significance of the numbers mentioned in con- 
nection with the feast of unleavened bread: but no man can 
understand such deeper mysteries as underlie the feast of the 
seven weeks, and so forth. The same thought is found in the 
passage from In Matt, quoted in the last note. 

XXVII, 14. save he who has contemplated the Father's will] i.e., 

A.C. 24 



370 ORIG-EN 

the Logos. Cf. In Joh., II, 2: "He would not have remained 
God, did he not remain in the unceasing contemplation [dea] 
of the Father's abyss"; Injoh., XXXII, 28: "For in my opinion 
no one except his Son can grasp [xa>pfjcrai] the full effulgence of 
the whole glory of God/' As regards the former of these quota- 
tions, Origen explains elsewhere (In Matt., XV, 31: P.G., XIII, 
134.5; C.5., XL, 444) that by "abyss" he means profundity of 
thought. 

XXVII, 15. two conflicting apostolic sayings'] Note that Origen 
believed the author of Hebrews and the author of Ephesians to 
be the same person. See on XXVII, 5. A similar juxtaposition 
of these two sayings is to be found in In Matt^ XV, 31 (P.G., 
XIII, i 34 6f; C.B., XL, 445)- 

XXVII, 15. "to put away sins"] All textual authorities read 
"sin" in Heb. 9:26 except the Codex Claromontanus (Ds) which 
supports Origen here. But in the passage in In Matt, referred to 
in the last note Origen has the singular. This is also read in the 
Latin of De Princ., II, 35: "ad refellendum peccatum." 

XXVII, 15. be under treatment} It is implied that this dis- 
ciplinary process will be successful in delivering even the great- 
est sinner from his sin. Cf. In Joh., XIX, 14; contra Celsum, V, 16, 
and In Matt., XV, 31. 

XXVII, 1 6. it now being clear . . . what the "day by day" is] The 
present age is "today," and of this it is possible to form some 
conception, just as we can also of single "days" under the 
Mosaic dispensation (see note on section 14) and how they are 
a shadow of the good things to come. It follows, therefore, that 
"day by day" refers to the succeeding ages, when this age is 
over, when the riches of God's grace, at present uncompre- 
hended, will be manifest. These wonders were symbolized in the 
old law by the larger measures of time, the weeks and months 
and holy seventh year and so forth; and he who can contem- 
plate such mysteries may in some sort enter into the secrets of 
the "day by day," that is, of the super-abundance of the bless- 
ings that God will bestow in those far-stretching ages of grace. 

XXVII, 17. how this "bread" is "ours"] i.e., how the bread 
of the succeeding ages can be ours. Origen points out that 
"things to come" as well as "things present" belong to the saints. 

XXVIII, i. "have forgiven"] wfrfKapev: probably from Matt. 
6:12: for in XVIII, 2, where he gives the whole prayer from 
Luke he reads d^wr/iev. 

XXVIII, i. in gentle speech, etc.] Origen's emphasis upon the 
law of love in this treatise is noteworthy in view of the bitter 



ON PRAYER 371 

experiences he had recently passed through in the fracas with 
Demetrius of Alexandria. See Introduction, p. 176. 

XXVIII, 2. those who have been born again] Cf. XV, 4 (Christ 
speaks) "having received the spirit of adoption through the 
being born again in me." 

XXVIII, 3. the whole "house"] i.e., the whole body of 
spectators. 

XXVIII, 4. "debt" due from a widow] Cf. I Tim. 5*3-16. 

XXVIII, 5. so as to owe nothing] Cf. In Jerem. horn., XIV, 4. 

XXVIII, 5. period of grace] This seems to be the sense re- 
quired from the Greek a^eo-eco?, which signifies rather 
"remission." 

XXVIII, 5. being engraved upon the reason] Cf. In Jerem. horn., 
XVI, 10: "Having committed the sin, I have its stamp [TVTTOV], 
and the stamp of the sin which has been sinned is written in my 
soul." 

XXVIII, 5. the written bond] The same expression is used of 
the debt incurred by sinners in In Jerem. hom. y XV, 5. 

XXVIII, 7. reproached] T reads a/eiATjcra?, which according 
to the unsupported statement of Hesychius may mean "fined" 
or "punished." The Anonymous prefers o/TretA^cras-, "threat- 
ened." Neither of these gives the required sense. I suggest 
ovetStaas 1 , "reproached." 

XXVIII, 7. "Thou wicked and slothful servant"] A slip on the 
part of Origen. These words occur in the parable of the Talents 
(Matt. 25:26), not in the parable of the Unmerciful Servant. 

XXVIII, 8. he says the same thing as Matthew] i.e., "forgive us 
our debts, as we also have forgiven our debtors" (Matt. 6:12). 

XXVIII, 8. but Luke seems not to give room] The Greek is "who 
seems not to give room." To refer the "who" to Matthew, as 
some commentators have done, leads to confusion. Origen's 
point is that Luke says, "we ourselves also forgive everyone that 
is indebted to us," thereby seeming to exclude those who wish, 
in accordance with other passages of Scripture, to forgive 
repentant sinners only. 

XXVIII, 8. as the apostles were] Similarly in XIV, 6, he 
speaks of saints who may be regarded as "a Paul or a Peter." 

XXVIII, 8. in speaking not the things of their own] Cf. II Peter 
1:21. 

XXVIII, 9. The priests according to the Law are prohibited] A 
distinction between voluntary and involuntary faults is a 
familiar feature of the law. See Leviticus, ch. 4, and Numbers, 
ch. 15. For "presumptuous sins" (Ps. 19:13) no sacrifice was 



372 ORIGEN 

available. "The soul that doeth aught with a high hand, whether 
he be homeborn or a stranger, the same blasphemeth the Lord; 
and that soul shall be cut off from among the people. Because 
he hath despised the word of the Lord, and hath broken his 
commandment; that soul shall be utterly cut off, his iniquity 
shall be upon him" (Num. 15 130, 31). 

XXVIII, 9. though the priest has power, etc.] A difficult sen- 
tence. Translated as in the text, it simply outlines the distinction 
above. But the negative may be taken with both clauses: "the 
priest having no power to offer . . . actually does not offer." 
This means that in certain cases of voluntary or trivial sins no 
offering is prescribed: but in the graver transgressions the absence 
of a sacrifice is explicitly indicated. Regarding such trivial sins 
undealt with by the law, two opinions obtained among the 
Rabbis: the majority holding that no sacrifice was required; one 
Rabbi (Levi Barcinonensis), however, maintaining that there 
were three faults, namely, blasphemy, neglect of circumcision, 
and failure to observe the Passover rightly, which though 
incurred involuntarily could not be expiated by sacrifice. See 
Reading, note, pp. 177, 178. 

XXVIII, 10. Certain persons, etc.] At the general background 
of this passage lies the disciplinary action of the early Church, 
with its varying degrees of severity. The more rigorous view, 
which Origen from temperament and training would obviously 
support, found its Scriptural warrant in such passages as I John 
5:16 (quoted here), Hebrews 6:4-6; 10:26-30, and possibly 
also II Peter 2:20-22, but this epistle from its late date and 
weak attestation can scarcely have exerted much influence (it is, 
however, referred to by Hippolytus in Philosophumena, IX, 7, of 
lapses on the part of Christians). It also finds expression in the 
Shepherd of Hennas, which, however, allows one post-baptismal 
fall, but not a second, and in Irenaeus, Haer., IV, 42:4, Tertul- 
lian De Baptismo, 8. Clearly, the more rigorous view concerning 
post-baptismal sin must have had regard to major offences 
only, and so a distinction between "deadly" and "venial 5 ' sins 
became soon apparent. Origen's own view on this matter is 
indicated in several passages in his writings, e.g., In Lev. horn., 
XV, 2 (end): "In gravioribus enim criminibus semel tantum 
poenitentiae conceditur locus; ista vero communia, quae fre- 
quenter incurrimus, semper poenitentiam recipiunt, etsineinter- 
missione redimuntur" (C.5., XXIX, 489); contra Celsum, III, 51 : 
"They [sc. the Christians] lament as dead those who have been 
vanquished by licentiousness or some foul wickedness, since 



ON PRAYER 373 

they are lost and dead to God"; and in In Matt., XIII, 30 
Origen distinguishes between lesser and graver sins ("murder, 
or poisoning, or pederasty, or anything of that sort"), the latter 
being such as those which the law in Numbers 18:22 describes 
as "death-bearing." But, quite clearly, a particular instance of 
disciplinary laxity is referred to in this passage ("certain per- 
sons"), and this has been usually identified (see Introduction, 
p. 1 80) with the controversy that took place at the end of the 
second and the beginning of the third century, and is associated 
in the first instance with the name of Pope Zephyrinus (197- 
217), but more particularly with his successor Callistus (2 1 7-223) , 
who apparently went much further in the matter of laxity than 
Zephyrinus had done. The "rigorist" champion at Rome was 
Hippolytus, whose Philosophumena or Omnium haereseum refutatio 
refers disparagingly to Zephyrinus and contains a scathing 
description of the career of Callistus before he became Pope, 
and of his disciplinary action after it. It has in fact been held 
that the controversy produced a schism in the Roman Church 
with Hippolytus as anti-pope of the opposite faction. The diffi- 
culty in holding this view is that Jerome, though he knew Hippo- 
lytus was "bishop of some church" adds "the name of the city I 
have not been able to learn" (De Viris Illustribus, 61). Origen 
could not have been unaware of this controversy, for Jerome 
(ibid.} also says that in one of his works, On the praise of our Lord 
and Saviour, Hippolytus "indicates that he is speaking in the 
Church in the presence of Origen." (The Greek version has it 
that Hippolytus was speaking in church after the manner of 
Origen and in his presence.) Origen paid his visit to Rome 
about 212 (see H. J. Lawlor, Eusebius, II, 201), and we cannot 
suppose that his contact with Hippolytus consisted merely in 
hearing him preach in church. Zephyrinus was then Pope; but 
as we have noted Hippolytus's criticism did not leave him un- 
spared on the contrary he represents him as deceived by 
Callistus and in close connection with him (Philosoph. IX, 6, 7,). 
Further, the controversy (and the schism, if it existed) con- 
tinued after the death of Callistus, for Hippolytus says that his 
"school continues, preserving its customs and traditions, not 
discerning with whom they ought to communicate, but indis- 
criminately offering communion to all." This subsequent period 
would involve the episcopate, of Urban (223-230) and prob- 
ably also that of his successor Pontianus. 

XXVIII, 10. perhaps because they have no accurate knowledge] 
Hippolytus says that Zephyrinus was "an ignorant and 



374 ORIGEN 

unlearned man and unskilled in ecclesiastical definitions" (Philo- 
soph., IX, n) the passage referring more particularly to 
theological definition concerning the godhead. This opinion is 
supported by a remark of Rufinus in his translation (or para- 
phrase) of Eusebius, H.E^ VI, 29:4. This chapter recounts a 
"surprise" election to the bishopric of Rome. A certain Fabian 
had come from the country for the election. No one thought of 
him as the future bishop; but during the proceedings a dove 
lighted on his head, and this omen secured his election "by 
acclamation. 55 Rufinus adds, from his own stock of knowledge, 
to this account: "Some tell this story of Fabian., others of 
Zephyrinus"; and the coupling of the two in this connection 
suggests that Zephyrinus, like Fabian, had no great reputation 
for learning. 

XXVIII, 10. boast that they are able to pardon] Tertullian De 
Pudicitia, i (P.L., II, g8of.) speaks of something much more 
definite than a boast: "Audio etiam edictum esse propositum, 
et quidem peremptorium. Pontifex scilicet maximus, quod est, 
episcopus episcoporum, edicit: c Ego et moechia et formcationis 
delicta poenitentia functis demitto. 5 O edictum, cui adscribi non 
poterit, Bonum factum." 

XXVIII, 10. idolatry . . . adultery and fornication] In the 
Decian persecution, which took place later, "idolatry" on the 
part of Christians consisted in offering incense at a pagan altar 
(see J. E. B. Mayor on Tertullian, ApoL, p. 351), or in taking 
part in pagan sacrifices by tasting the victim's flesh, or in pro- 
ducing a certificate, often procured by collusion, that such an 
act had been performed (see Benson, Cyprian, 80, 81). Cyprian 
(Ep. 9 8:2) and Dionysius of Alexandria (ap. Eusebius, H.E., VI, 
45) use the word in this sense, and there is no reason to think 
that any other meaning should be attached to it here: indeed, 
since the time of Trajan the approved form of profession of 
paganism was to take part in sacrifice. The conditions on which 
such^ lapsed Christians should be re-admitted, if at all, to com- 
munion was one of the major disciplinary problems with which 
the Church of the middle of the third century had to wrestle* 
But this was subsequent to Zephyrinus or Gallistus, and there is 
no suggestion by Hippolytus that they made concessions to such 
offenders. The De Pudicitia of Tertullian, whether directed 
against ^ Zephyrinus or Callistus, argues that adultery and 
fornication ought to exclude from communion equally with 
idolatry and murder (chs. 5, 12), and therefore seems to imply 
that the Pope's laxity consisted in this only, that he was willing 



ON PRAYER 375 

to re-admit to communion, in peace, the adulterer and the 
fornicator. But Tertullian's treatise is dated between 217 and 
222; and in the interval between the date of its composition and 
that of the De Oratione (233-234) wider concessions may have 
been made by subsequent Popes (note that Origen uses the 
plural in this connection "certain persons 55 ), involving those 
guilty of "idolatry." With regard to the concessions made by 
Callistus concerning adultery and fornication, G. Dix argues 
(The Apostolic Tradition,, XVIII) with plausibility that all that 
the Pope did was to recognize as marriage in the sight of the 
Church something that could not be so recognized in the eyes 
of the law, namely, a permanent union between a woman and a 
slave. 

XXIX, i. "bring us not into temptation"} "Temptation" and 
"tempt" in the Greek and English Bibles are used in two senses, 
of (a] a solicitation to evil and (b) a testing or trial. In modern 
English sense (a) predominates; and so in Genesis 22:1 the 
Revised Version translates "God did prove [Authorized Ver- 
sion 'tempt'] Abraham," in order to avoid misapprehension; 
for in the sense of solicitation to evil "God tempteth no man" 
(James 1:13). A similar aim in early times appears to underlie 
the gloss on this petition "ne nos patiaris induci" (Tertullian 
and Cyprian). In expounding it Origen takes "temptation" in 
its most inclusive sense, as is evident from the opening section of 
the chapter. The whole life of man upon earth is a testing 
ground; and he is also in his inner nature subject to the 
solicitations to evil that come from "the flesh." Such being the 
case, why are we taught to pray: "Bring us not into tempta- 
tion"? Are we not praying for the impossible? Origen's answer 
is given in section 9. We pray to be delivered from tempta- 
tion, not in the sense of not being tempted, but in the sense 
of not being overcome by temptation. 

XXIX, i. "life upon earth is a temptation"] Job 7:1. The 
Hebrew has "warfare," "hard service." 

XXIX, 2. "In thee I shall be delivered from temptation"] Ps. 
17:30 (LXX). "Temptation" (ireipaTripiov) is the same word as 
in Job 7:1, above. The Hebrew is: "By thee I run upon a troop," 
i.e., attack a hostile, marauding army. 

XXIX, 2. "the soul of all flesh"} i.e., the blood (Lev, 17:11). 
"The soul [Revised Version 'life 3 ] of all flesh is the blood 
thereof" (LXX). There is therefore here a metalepsis or com- 
pound figure, by which "blood" is used to indicate both "soul" 
(which resides in it) and "heart" (the fount of both "soul" and 



376 ORIGEN 

"blood"). Origen means that our wrestling is with the soul, the 
guiding principle of the animated body, called the heart because 
out of it come the evil passions (see Mark 7:21), against which 
the spirit of man wars. 

XXIX, 2. the guiding principle] TO riy^oviKov. Cf. In Joh^ II, 
35: "In the heart is the guiding principle." The idea is 
borrowed from the Stoics, who held that the dominant part 
of the soul, the guiding principle or reason, as well as other 
parts, had their centre in die heart (Zeller, Stoics and Epicureans, 
214). 

XXIX, 3. bid us pray not to enter "into temptation"} Although 
ostensibly Origen is commenting upon the petition in the Lord's 
Prayer ("bid us pray"), his mind seems to have travelled on to 
Matt. 26:41, and parallels, "Watch and pray, that ye enter not 
into temptation." 

XXIX, 3. Judith] T reads "Judaea." This quotation from 
Judith 8:26, 27, varies somewhat from the text as given by 
Rahlfs. Origen: "For the Lord, who scourgeth them who come 
near unto him to admonish them, doth not take vengeance on 
us." Rahlfs: "Because the Lord hath not taken vengeance on us, 
but scourgeth them who draw near unto him to admonish 
them." 

XXIX, 4. "in stripes more abundantly, in prisons above measure"] 
The text of Origen here agrees with that of the first hand of 
Codex H* The Revised Version, in accordance with Codex B, 
reads "in prisons more abundantly, in stripes above measure." 

XXIX, 5. outside the range of "temptations such as man can bear"] 
7rt,pacrp,a)v avdpo)7rwa)v. I read this in place of TT. avdpa)7rov$ 
("when did anyone think that men were outside the range of 
temptations"), which gives a poor sense. 

XXIX, 5. eagerly expect freedom from ills] T reads "by ills," 
which Koetschau emends as above. 

XXIX, 5. in the sense of not being overcome when we are tempted] 
This is the explanation also of Dionysius of Alexandria (Feltoe, 
247), who appears to be dependent upon Origen in this point, 
and also in the meaning of "enter into temptation." 

XXIX, 9. "Glancing through the meshes"] The Revised Version 
of S. of Sol. 2:9 has: "He sheweth himself ["glanceth", 
margin] through the lattice." This description of the beloved 
in the Song of Songs easily lent itself to a mystical interpre- 
tation. The Midrash applies the words to the Shechinah peering 
through the outstretched hand of the priest when blessing the 
people (the Hebrew word for "glanceth" signifying "to 



ON PRAYER 377 

sparkle"). Origan's explanation is suggested to him by the LXX 
for "lattice," namely, rw SIKTVOJV, which, while found in the 
sense of "lattice-work," more usually means "meshes" or "toils" 
of a net. Hence it is but a step, in Origen's mind, to apply the 
phrase to the meshes of temptation into which the Saviour 
willingly entered for our sakes. An amplified, though similar, 
interpretation is found in his Commentary on the Song of Songs, 
Book III ((?.., XXIII, 199, 200, 203, and especially 222). The 
retia are there the "laquei tentationum et decipulae insidiarum 
diaboli," which man cannot overcome by himself but needs a 
greater and stronger than he to break them down and open up 
the way. Therefore, the Saviour, before he was united with his 
Bride the Church, was tempted by the devil, that he might 
overcome the retia tentationum, and passing through them call to 
his Bride to "rise up" and "come." 

XXIX, 9. "the mouth of the righteous will meditate zvisdom"] 
Revised Version, "bringeth forth," margin, "buddeth with": 
the Hebrew verb elsewhere meaning "to sprout," "to grow." 
XXIX, 10. they invent a Son or a Father] The Marcionites are 
no doubt intended. A similar passage is contra Celsum, VIII, 16, 
in which Origen speaks of those "who deny the Creator, and 
make to themselves another god under a new form, having 
merely the name of god, to whom they give themselves as being 
superior to the Creator," and with them are to be classed "any 
one there may be who says that the Son and Lord is mightier 
than God who rules all things." For further reference to Mar- 
cionites, see XXIX, 12, 13. 

XXIX, ii. the meaning of which is clear enough from what has 
been said} See section 9, above: "he who is overcome in being 
tempted enters into temptation," and also below in section 11: 
"he who is conquered enters into temptation." 

XXIX, 12. divide the Godhead] Origen again reverts to the 
Marcionites, who supposed that there were two Gods, the one 
the just God of the law, the other the good God of the gospel. 
The same phrase occurs in In Jerem. horn., IX, i : "There will be 
those who divide the Godhead which is prior to the coming of 
the Saviour, as they suppose, from the Godhead proclaimed by 
Jesus Christ. But we know one God both then and now." The 
same "division" into "just" and "good" is discussed in De 
Princ., II, 5:1. Cf. Irenaeus, Haer., Ill, 40:2: "Marcion igitur 
ipse dividens Deum in duo, alterum quidem bonum, et alterum 
iudicialem dicens, ex utrisque interimit Deum." 

XXIX, 13. these observations will trouble the persons in question 



378 ORIGEN 

exceedingly] Because Origen's quotations here are taken from the 
New Testament, and from Paul, whom the Marcionites held in 
special honour (see E, C. Blackman, Marcion and his influence, 
ch. 6) . They could not therefore be attributed to the "just" God 
of the Old Testament. 

XXIX, 13. an adequate solution of these contradictions] In section 
1 1 Origen has said that "it is incongruous to think that God 
leads anyone into temptation, in the sense of giving him up 
(TrapaSovra) to be conquered." How then can Paul say (section 
12) in regard to certain persons that "God gave them up 
(rrapeScDKev) in the lusts of their hearts unto uncleanness," that 
"God gave them up unto vile passions/ 3 that "God gave them 
up unto a reprobate mind"? A partial answer to this difficulty 
is given at the end of section 12, namely, that such people, even 
if God had not "given them up," would still have been in the 
lust of their hearts, and have fallen into vile passions and into 
a reprobate mind. But in sections 13-15 Origen's real solution is 
disclosed, which incidentally involves several of his fundamental 
convictions. These are (i) God orders every rational soul with 
a view to its eternal life; (2) the soul always maintains its free 
will; (3) probation continues after death; (4) God's punishment 
is always remedial, not penal. A quickly cured sin might lead 
the sinner into further carelessness. So God may "give up" the 
sinner unto his vile passions, so that continuance in the evil may 
cause him to take his fill of wickedness and be so glutted with it, 
that when this life is over he may desire his sin no longer and 
retrace the path to heavenly things. An illustration is chosen 
from the Book of Numbers, where God sent the Israelites, who 
had lusted for flesh, such a glut of food as should eventually 
become loathsome to them. 

XXIX, 13. have taken offence against him as not good] Of. In 
Jerem. hom.^ I, 16: "Had the wretched heretics understood this, 
they would not be continually saying to us: 'You see the God of 
the Law, that he is fierce and inhuman 3 "; In Jerem. horn., XII, 5: 
"The heretics say, 'Do you see what kind of a person the 
Creator is? the God of the prophets who says, "I will not spare 
and I will not pity them in their destruction"? How can he be 
good? 5 " 

XXIX, 13. a rapid and brief cure] Origen employs the same 
thought to God's treatment of his people Israel in contra Celsum, 
V, 31. 

XXIX, 14. afterwards desire earthly things] The Anonymous 
scholar, quoted by Reading, ad loc., (196?.) shows that 



ON PRAYER 379 

here means "terrena ilia, quae ad victus delicias pertinet, quales 
erant carnes, quarum cupiditate flagarbat populus Israeli ticus," 
giving several examples of this usage; e.g., contra Celsum VIII, 
60 (bis), 62. 

XXIX, 14. you may then, having come to hate, etc.] Some 
emendation seems necessary to clarify the conclusion of this 
very lengthy and difficult and complicated sentence: accordingly 
I have adopted the addition of "you may be able" in this place, 
suggested by the Anonymous, and also his alteration of "they 
yearned" into "you yearned." 

XXIX, 15. the wise fire] This phrase occurs several times in 
Clement of Alexandria: Paed., Ill, 8:44 (of the Sodomites), 
"God pouring forth a little of his wise fire upon their wanton- 
ness"; Strom., VII, 6:34, 4, "We say that the fire purifies not the 
flesh but sinful souls, not an all-devouring and vulgar fire, but 
'the wise fire' as we call it, the fire that c pierceth the soul 3 which 
passes through it"; EcL Proph., XXV, 4, "Fire is conceived of as 
a beneficent and strong power, destroying what is base, pre- 
serving what is good; therefore this fire is called 'wise' by the 
prophets" (Isa. 4:4; Mai. 3:2). Cf, also Origen, In Ezech. horn., 
1:3, "quis est ignis sic sapiens?" and Minucius Felix, XXXV, 
3, who speaks of the fire of hell as sapiens ignis. 

XXIX, 15. in the fire and the prison they do not receive the recom- 
pense of error] The real punishment of sin, according to Origen, 
is to be enslaved by sin. God's punishments, spoken of under the 
symbols of "fire" (see previous note) and "prison," are re- 
medial. See next note. 

XXIX, 15. a benefaction] So Origen also describes God's 
disciplinary action in contra Celsum, IV, 12, 13, 21; V, 15; In 
Jerem. horn., II, 2, 3; XVI, 6, as for the benefit of the sinner. 

XXIX, 15. God does not wish, etc.] Cf. In Jerem. hom., XX, 2: 
"God does not rule as a tyrant, but as a king; and when so doing 
he does not compel [J8er(u], but persuades, and desires that 
those under him should willingly yield themselves to his direc- 
tion, so that the good of no one should come by necessity, but 
of his free will." Clement of Alexandria, Strom,, VII, 42:4: 
"For neither is God good involuntarily as the fire is warming 
(but in him the imparting of good things is voluntary); nor on 
the other hand shall he who is saved be saved involuntarily." 
Ep. ad Diognetum, VII, 3-5, especially the words: "Compulsion 
Ijgta] is not an attribute of God," Irenaeus, Haer., IV, 59: "Vis 
a Deo non fit," and V, 1:1 "Deum suadentem et non vim 
inferentem." 



380 ORIGEN 

XXIX, 1 6. God "hardens the heart of Pharaoh"] Cf. what 
Origen says on this subject in De Princ., Ill, i :j ff. (C.B., XXII, 
204 ff.), and in In Exod. horn., IV (CJB., XXIX, 171 ff.). 

XXIX, 1 6. not unjustly are the nets spread for birds] The Greek 
for "nets" is S&crva, recalling the "meshes" of temptation spoken 
of in section 9. 

XXIX, 1 6. the sparrow falls into the snare] So also in contra 
Celsum, VIII, 70, apparently under the influence of Ps. 66:11: 
but Matt. 10:29 has "fall to the ground." 

XXIX, 19. who "maketh all things to work together for good"] 
In the usual form which this passage takes (Authorized Version 
and Revised Version) "work together" (owepyci) is intransitive 
and its nominative is "all things." But frequently (though not 
always), as here, Origen cites a text which has rrdvra avvpyl 6 
6e6$: "God maketh all things to work together 53 (so margin 
of Revised Version). This reading is supported by A and B and 
some of the Egyptian versions. See Sanday and Headlam on 
Rom. 8:28. 

XXX, i. Luke . . . has virtually taught also "Deliver us from the 
evil one"] Because, as Origen has maintained (XXIX, n), the 
prayer, "Bring us not into temptation/ 3 really means, "May we 
not be encompassed or overcome by temptation." It is un- 
necessary to labour the point that Origen takes rov irovr^pov as 
masculine, not neuter, since the whole chapter, and especially 
the quotations from Job and Eph. ch. 6, imply belief in a 
personal devil. 

XXX, i. by a customary Hebrew usage] The root of the Hebrew 
word translated "afflictions" in Ps. 34:19 means "evil," "dis- 
tress," or "calamity." 

XXX, i. as never not "afflicted"] The phrase translated 
"afflicted on every side" in II Cor. 4:8 is literally "afflicted in 
every thing." 

XXX, i. to be "straitened" is a matter of choice] This is 
questionable. The word in II Cor. 4:8 means: "not in hopeless 
straits," "not in a situation from which there is no way out." 
Here the question of choice does not seem to be involved, al- 
though Paul's courage in adverse circumstances is manifest. 
But in II Cor. 6:12, "ye are straitened in your own affections," 
Paul clearly attributes to the Corinthians something that they 
might have avoided. 

XXX, i. is termed enlargement] A good illustration of Origen's 
words is to be found in Ps. 18:18, 19: "They came upon me in 
the day of my calamity: But the Lord was my stay. He brought 



ON PRAYER 381 

me forth also into a large place (LXX, e into enlargement'). 5 ' 
Cf. also Ps. 118:5; I]C 9 : 45- 

XXX, 2. "cursf* God "to" his "face"] Job 2:9. But the word 
translated "curse" (Revised Version "renounce") is in the LXX 
and the Hebrew "bless." It must be supposed that the word 
"curse" stood originally in the Hebrew text, and was altered 
subsequently from motives of reverence, but in defiance of the 
sense of the passage, to "bless." 

XXX, 2. recorded in the three Gospels] A slip on the part of 
Origen, Mark does not record three temptations. 



. 

L, i. before the dawning of the light] Wisdom of Solomon 
16:28. This is the reading of a corrector of Codex j?. But the 
sense demands the usual reading "towards the dawning of the 
light," i.e., the East. 

XXXI, 2. every kind of distraction} This is the emendation by 
Bentley of T, which has "every kind of temptation" (Trepunra- 
apov for mipwpov) . Koetschau goes as far as to acknowledge 
that the conjecture is "nicht ohne Wahrscheinlichkeit." 

XXXI, 2. before the hands . . . before the eyes] "Before" is best 
taken as temporal, as it must certainly so be taken in "before he 
stands," etc. The preferable attitude of the body in prayer is 
indicated lower down in this section standing, with hands 
outstretched and eyes uplifted; and inasmuch as the soul 
takes precedence over the body, so also the soul, the mind 
and the reason should symbolically anticipate the move- 
ments of the body. See the article Orant, Orante, with numerous 
illustrations of this attitude in prayer, by H. Leclercq in 
D.A.C.L. 

XXXI, 2. the hands are stretched out] So also Tertullian, ApoL, 
30, speaks of Christians in prayer manibus expansis. J. E. B. 
Mayor, ad loc., gives many references to this practice. 

XXXI, 3. "/ bow my knees unto the Father"} After these words 
the "received text" adds "of our Lord Jesus Christ," which 
Origen omits with H A B C P Boh Aeth Jerome (expressly) and 
other authorities. The corrector of 8 inserts them. 

XXXI, 3. it has been shown . . that their bodies are spherical] 
Many of the Greek philosophers from early times held that the 
cosmos and celestial bodies were spherical. Xenophanes (sixth 
century B.C.) affirmed that God, and Parrnenides (born c. 510 
B.C.) that "the whole," was of this shape (see Hippolytus, 
Philosophy I, n, 14). Plato, Timaeus, 336 (trans. R. G. Bury), 
says: "Now for that Living Creature which is designed to em- 
brace within itself all living creatures the fitting shape will be 



382 ORIGEN 

that which comprises within itself all the shapes that are; 
wherefore he wrought it into a round [/cu/cAoTe/w], in the 
shape of a sphere [cr^atpoetSe?], equidistant in all directions 
from the centre to the extremities, which of all shapes is the 
most perfect and the most self-similar; since he deemed that the 
similar is infinitely fairer than the dissimilar." The same view 
was taken by Aristotle (e.g., De Anima, I, 2), and also Theophras- 
tus (c. 37i-c. 287 B.C.), who attached a spherical shape to the 
"first principle." Another holder of this opinion used to be cited 
in "Timaeus Locrus," Concerning the World-Soul and Nature 
(printed in Teubner texts after the Timaeus in Vol. IV of Plato's 
Dialogues) II, 94!): but this work is now held to be spurious 
and to be probably dated not earlier than first century A.D. 
(J. Burnet, Early Greek Philosophy., 280). H. Chadwick, however, 
has pointed out (The Harvard Theological Review, Vol. XLI, 
No. 2) that there is no specific reference in this passage of the 
De Oratione to the resurrection or the resurrection body; and 
that Justinian, in criticizing Origen on this matter (see Intro- 
duction, p. 232), may have attributed to Origen himself the 
views of some of his followers. 

XXXI, 3. It would lead to a very absurd] This sentence is de- 
signed to refute a further line of argument which might be put 
forward, namely, that though it is true that celestial bodies 
could have no uses for all the organs of an earthly body, they 
might have the appearance of possessing all these organs. This, 
says Origen, would be to liken them to a hollow statue, with 
suiface but no depth. 

XXXI, 4. every place is suitable for prayer] Cf. contra Celsum, 
VII, 44: "A Christian, even an ordinary Christian, is persuaded 
that every place forms part of the universe, and the whole world 
is God's temple. And so, praying in every place, shutting the 
eyes of sense, and raising upwards the eyes of the soul, he climbs 
above the whole universe. Neither does he pause at the vault of 
heaven, but passes in thought into the region beyond the 
heaven, being led on his way by the divine Spirit, and having 
thus as it were travelled beyond the universe, he offers up his 
prayer to God for no trivial blessings." A similar thought in- 
spires Clement of Alexandria to one of his most eloquent pas- 
sages (Strom., VII, 35): "Such is he who believes God is every- 
where present, and does not suppose him to be shut up in a 
certain definite place. . . . Accordingly all our life is a festival: 
being persuaded that God is everywhere present on all sides, we 
praise him as we till the ground, we sing hymns as we sail the 



ON PRAYER 383 

sea, we feel his inspiration in all that we do" (Hort and Mayor) . 
Of. Strom., VII, 43. 

XXXI, 4. the visitation of God will not rest upon if] Here 
"visitation" cmoTcoTrq connotes "searching inquisition/' "pun- 
ishment," as sometimes in the Old Testament (Isa. 10:3; Jer. 
6:15; 10:15; Ecclesiasticus 18:20). 

XXXI, 4. "by consent for a season"] Here Origen harks back 
to a passage (II, 2) at the beginning of the treatise where he 
also quotes I Cor. 7:5. 

XXXI, 5. dearly also those who are still in this life] Origen's 
confident assertion is based on the quotation from I Cor. 5:4 
which follows later, in which Paul says that though absent in 
the flesh he will be present in the spirit at a gathering of the 
Christian Church. 

XXXI, 5. each one's angel] For the belief that each Christian 
has a guardian angel, see also VI, 4, XI, 5, and Introduction, 

P* 195- 

XXXI, 5. there is a double church] The same words occur in In 

Luc. horn., XXIII (C.B., XXXV, 156): "Ego non ambigo et in 
coetu nostro adesse angelos, non solum generaliter omni ecclesiae, 
sed etiam singillatim, de quibus Salvator ait Angeli eorum semper, 
vident faciem Patris mei qui in caelis est. Duplex hie adest ecclesia, 
una hominum, altera angelorum." The following quotation 
from C. H. Boutflower, domestic chaplain to Bishop Westcott 
(Life and Letters ofB. F. Westcott, by A. Westcott, II, 372) may be 
relevant. "Finding the Bishop struggling late and minutely one 
night over the draft of a service for the Dedication of Gifts in 
some humble church, his Chaplain said, 'Well, my Lord, that 
congregation will not be a critical one: they are accustomed to 
anything.' With a gentle, surprised smile, such as Elisha's 
might have been at Dothan, the Bishop looked up from his 
desk and said, 'You forget: who are "the congregation"? We are 
only an infinitesimal part of it.'" 

XXXI, 5. Raphael says of Tobit] Cf. XI, i, where the book 
of Tobit is also used to enforce teaching about angels. 

XXXI, 5. who later on became his daughter-in-law] T has "who 
became his subsequent [varepas] daughter-in-law" : but Tobias 
had no wife before Sarah. Koetschau emends to vcrrepcos. 

XXXI, 5. being associated not only with the Ephesians] Paul 
wrote his first Epistle to the Corinthians from Ephesus (I Cor. 
16:8). 

XXXI, 5. his spirit in Corinth] Probably we should adopt the 
emendation of the Anonymous "his spirit for those in Corinth." 



384 ORIGEN 

XXXI, 6. who has given himself up to the angel of the devil} A 
brilliant emendation of the Anonymous, who reads emSoj for 
eiri TO), and cites parallels for the thought from Origen and 
Hermas. 

XXXI, 6. the angels . . . watch over the Church] T has: "the 
divine will watching over the Church," which the Anonymous 
rightly emends. Cp. XI, 5; "the angels who watch over." 

XXXI, 6. for the carrying out of worldly business] Like those who 
met in the Temple to buy and sell (Matt. 21:12). 

XXXI, 7. the Jig tree . . . was taken away from the roots] But the 
fig tree was not taken away (ap0iar]) i it was withered away 
(egrjpavrai) : Mark 11:21; and Origen says immediately after- 
wards "so also they were withered. 33 Emendations suggested 
are iaQeurQ (from a^opai) Oxford ed.; grjpavdeioy, Anonymous; 
avavBeicrfl, Koetschau. If apQelori was in the original text of the 
treatise, it may be due to a mistake of the stenographer in taking 
down Origen 3 s words; or it may be a slip on the part of Origen, 
occasioned by the occurrence of apB^ri in the following context 
(Mark 11:23: "Whosoever shall say unto this mountain, 'Be 
thou taken up/ 3 ' etc.). But Origen discusses fully the incident 
of the fig tree and its "withering away 33 in In Matt.) XVI, 26 
(C., XL, 562). 

XXXI, 7. in church] ev eVc/cAt/coa, i.e., in assembly, when 
Christians are gathered together, especially for worship. It is 
the usage of Paul in I Cor. 11:18; 14:19, 28, 35, and is based on 
the Old Testament use of qahal, "assembly, 33 "convocation, 33 
of which KK\-r)crta is normally the rendering in the LXX. 

XXXII. the east . . . the direction we ought to face when praying"] 
Turning to the east when making supplication or offering 
sacrifice was a common custom in pre-Christian times. Cf. 
Sophocles O.C., 477 (with R. C. Jebb's note); Vergil, Aeneid, 
XII, 172; Tacitus, Hist., Ill, 24; Philo, De F.C., 3. Probably it 
was taken over thence without more ado by the Christian 
Church. At any rate some of the early Fathers in their more 
candid moments confessed that they knew of no definite Scrip- 
tural sanction for the custom. Origen, In Num. horn.,, V (CU3., 
XXX, 26) : "Sed et in ecclesiasticis observationibus sunt non- 
nulla huiusmodi, quae omnibus quidem facere necesse est, nee 
tamen ratio eorum omnibus patet. Nam quod, verbi gratia, 
genua flectimus orantes et quod ex omnibus coeli plagis ad 
solam orientis partem conversi orationem fundimus, non facile 
cuiquam puto ratione compertum." Basil, De Spiritu Sancto, 66: 
"What writing taught us to turn to the east in prayer?* 3 Other 



ON PRAYER 385 

early references to the custom are Clement of Alexandria, Strom., 
VII, 7, 43; Tertullian, Adv. ValenL, 3; Apol., 16 (where T. says 
that because they turned to the east in prayer Christians were 
suspected of worshipping the sun). Nevertheless, while the 
origin ^ of the custom must be sought in times before Christ, 
Christian writers were unable to resist the temptation to find 
support for it in a mystical interpretation of certain passages of 
Scripture. Thus, Origen, In Levit. horn., IX, 10 (C.B., XXIX, 
438) says: "Ab oriente tibi propitiatio venit; inde est enim vir, 
cui 'Oriens nomen' est [Zech. 6:12] ... Imitaris ergo per hoc, 
ut ad orientem semper adspicias, unde tibi oritur 'soliustitiae' 33 
[Mai. 4:2]. Another text is adduced in support of the practice 
in Didascalia Apostolorum, ch. XII (ed. R. H. Connolly, 1 19, 120) : 
"For it is required that you pray toward the east, as knowing 
that which is written 'Give ye glory to God, who rideth upon 
the heaven of heavens towards the east' [Ps. 67 (68):33]. 5S Yet 
another passage of Scripture is laid hold of by Gregory of 
Nyssa, In Oratione Dominica, V (P.G., XLIV, 1184), where the 
argument is that since Paradise was in the east (Gen. 2:8), 
therefore when we turn to the east in prayer, we ask the second 
Adam to restore to us what the first Adam lost. At a much later 
date (? c. 743), John of Damascus, De Fide Orthodoxy IV, 12 
(P.G., XCIV, 1133-1136) repeats the texts from Zechariah, 
Malachi, and Genesis and adds other reasons for the custom, 
namely, that when Christ was on the Cross, his face was turned 
to the west, hence when we adore him we turn to the east; and 
that when he ascended into heaven, he was borne towards the 
east, and so will come in like manner: quoting Matt. 24:27. 

Candidates for baptism faced west when they were renounc- 
ing Satan; in professing the Creed they faced east, "the region 
of light, 55 where God had planted Paradise. (Cyril, Hieros., 
Cat. Myst., I; P.O., XXXIII, 1068, 1073). Cf. also Ambrose, 
De Mysteriis, II; Jerome, Comment, in Amos, III, 6 (P.L., XXV, 
1068). On the general subject of praying eastwards, see Bing- 
ham, Antiquities of the Christian Church, 517, 653; "Orientation/' 
in D.A.C.L., by H. Leclercq. 

XXXII. by convention . . . by nature'] fleo-et . . . ^ucret. A Stoic 
antithesis. Diogenes Laertius, VII, 128 quotes Chrysippus as 
saying that TO Swccwov is "by nature" and not "by convention": 
see J. von Arnim, 5.F.F., III, 76. Strabo, Geographica, II, 3:7, 
contrasts <j>vais with "custom" and "training," and in the same 
section speaks of a certain question as "a mere matter of 
argument" (fl 
A.C. -25 



386 ORIG-EN 

XXXIII, i. God is to be glorified^ etc. ] Cf. the concluding words 
of this section "glorifying God through Christ in the Holy 
Spirit," Although Origen is speaking of private prayer, it 
seems almost certain that he has in mind a liturgical formula 
corresponding to the Gloria Patri. At a later date Basil, De 
Spiritu Sancto, in discussing different forms of this formula, 
seems to imply (section 71) that "in the Holy Spirit" was the 
most usual ending. He refers, however, to two forms of doxology, 
both of which he used in public worship, sometimes glorifying 
God the Father "in fellowship with [ju-era] the Son, together 
with [ow] the Spirit," and at others using the prepositions (as 
Origen here) "through" the Son and "in" the Holy Spirit. 
Basil's preference is for the former of these two forms, since he 
wrote subsequently to the Arian heresy, and it was desirable not 
to give a loophole to those who denied that the Son and the 
Holy Spirit are co-essential with the Father. He proceeds to cite 
many authorities in the past who used the phrase "together 
with the Holy Spirit," among them "Origen in many of his 
expositions of the Psalms." (I have failed to find an example of 
this in the extant fragments of this work.) Basil then goes on to 
say of Origen (ch. 73) that "the opinions he held concerning 
the Holy Spirit were not always and everywhere sound; never- 
theless in many passages even he reverently recognizes the 
force of established usage, and expresses himself concerning the 
Spirit in terms consistent with true relirion" (N.P.N.F., 
VIII, 46). 

XXXIII, 2. "how greatly art thou magnified"'] B and i? omit 
"how." 

XXXIII, 2. "majesty 9 ] This is the reading of A. The first 
hand of tf reads "goodHness." 

XXXIII, 2, "aflame of fire"] So the second hand of A, in- 
stead of "a flaming fire." 

XXXIII, 2. "who layeth the foundations] So A: v.L 9 "he laid 
the foundations." 

XXXIII, 3. through Nathan] Scot rov Na6av. This is an 
emendation for Sea rov davdrov (sic) of T, the scribe of which 
the Anonymous calls "half asleep" : semisomnis librarius. 

XXXIII, 3. "/ was made little"] This is also the reading of B. 
A reads "it was made little." 

XXXIII, 3. "thou knowest thy servant, Lord"] This is the 
reading of T in this place, and also of B and A in the LXX. 
Rahlfs, however, gives "my Lord" as the reading of Origen's 
recension. 



ON PRAYER 387 

XXXIII, 3. "For thy servant's sake"} Here again T gives a 
reading not in accordance with the Origenist text, which 
according to Rahlfs has "On thy account." 

XXXIII, 5. "Draw me not away with sinners"} This is the 
reading of Codex N. v.L, "Draw not my soul away with sinners." 

XXXIV. on jour behalf] If this reading is correct, it refers more 
particularly to Origen's answer to "the problem of prayer" 
which had been posed to him by his two friends (V, 6). That 
Origen, however, gave the subject a much wider treatment than 
"the problem" demanded, may suggest that he felt his friends 
needed to be brought on much further on the whole subject and 
practice of prayer. This may also be suggested in the quotation 
from Phil. 3:13 which follows. 

XXXIV. very studious] Lit. "very fond of learning," an 
epithet that was certainly deserved by Ambrose. See Intro- 
duction, p. 182. 

XXXIV. pray for us] With a Christian tactfulness worthy of 
Paul, Origen gives the impression that it is he who needs his 
friends' prayers. 

XXXIV. to treat again of these matters] We have no reason to 
think that Origen ever wrote again specifically on the subject 
of prayer. The De Oratione was in fact no mean contribution to 
it, and was much fuller than the treatises of Tertullian and of 
Cyprian which preceded and followed it, in point of time. The 
apologetic tone of the concluding words: "you will read this 
book with indulgence," if not merely a conventional phrase, 
may point to the haste, and consequent defects in arrangement, 
of which Origen was conscious as he surveyed his completed 
task. 



Exhortation to Martyrdom 

INTRODUCTION 

EARLY IN A.D. 235 THE SOLDIER MAXIMIN LED A 
successful revolt against the regime of Severus Alexander, 
last of the Syrian emperors, who was killed on the Rhine 
frontier. Severus Alexander had been friendly to the Church. 
His wife, Mamaea, when on one occasion she was staying at 
Antioch, had sent for Origen and asked him theological ques- 
tions. 1 According to the Historia Augusta there was a private 
chapel in the imperial household containing statues of past 
emperors and great men of history, including Apollonius of 
Tyana, Orpheus, Abraham, and Christ. 2 It was in reaction 
against this policy of friendliness to the Church that Maximin 
began to persecute the Christians. Only the clergy were attacked. 
The church historian Eusebius of Caesarea says that Maximin, 
"through ill will towards the house of Alexander, since it con- 
sisted for the most part of believers, raised a persecution, order- 
ing the leaders of the church alone to be put to death, as being 
responsible for the teaching of the gospel." 3 At Rome Bishop 
Pontianus and Hippolytus were deported to Sardinia. 4 

At the threat of persecution Origen wrote his Exhortation to 
Martyrdom for his rich patron, Ambrose, who was in deacon's 
orders, and for Protoctetus, a presbyter of the church at 
Caesarea in Palestine. The Exhortation shows signs of having 
been written in haste, and Origen shows little concern for style 
or ordered arrangement. The style is in places verbose, and for 
a modern reader Origen's characteristic habit of quoting a text 

* Eusebius, H.K, VI, 21:3-4. 

2 S. H. A., Lampridius, Vita Severi, 29. 

s Eusebius, H.E., VI, 28; <. Chronic., $. 216, ed. Helm. 

4 Liber Pontificalis, I, p. 4, ed. Duchesne. 



EXHORTATION TO MARTYRDOM 389 

from the Synoptic Gospels in all its possible forms must seem 
pedantic and irritating. Nevertheless the work is of high interest, 
because of the insight it gives us into the spirit of the early 
Church under the immediate stress of persecution. 

Chapters 1-5 are an introduction in the form of an exposition 
of Isa. 28:9-11. This is followed by a warning against idolatry 
and apostasy (Chapters 6-10) and an exhortation to stand firm 
(Chapters 11-21}. The example of the Maccabean martyrs, 
which exercised great influence on early Christian ideas of true 
martyrdom, is held up in Chapters 22-27. Origen then writes 
of the value of death by martyrdom, and of baptism of blood as 
conferring remission of all sins (Chapters 28 ff.). He emphasizes 
the absolute dividing line between the Christian and the world 
(34 ff-) which means that there can be no compromise. Chapters 
45-46 (cf. 5) deal with the lax views of those who sought to 
rationalize the attitude of compromise with the State, saying 
that a mere name is nothing, and that to swear by the Tyche of 
the emperor is not a significant act. This tendency appears in 
many gnostic sects such as the Simonians (Origen, contra Celsum, 
VI, 1 1) 3 and the followers of Prodicus (Tertullian, Scorpiace, 15). 
The view that apostasy is a matter of moral indifference is also 
attributed to Basilides. 5 The school of Valentine was partic- 
ularly exercised by the question; Clement of Alexandria* pre- 
serves Heracleon's interpretation of Luke 12:11-12. Confession 
before the authorities, he says, is to be made only "if necessary 
and if reason demand/ 5 

Origen' s closing section (Chapters 47 to end) consists of a 
final exhortation to courage. 

Origen's Exhortation is an outstanding witness to the dignity 
which the early Church attributed to martyrdom. 7 It was the 
highest ambition of Ignatius of Antioch to be torn to pieces by 
wild beasts at Rome. No higher reward could be reserved for 
the Christian than the martyr's crown. No epithet was too ex- 
alted for him. Thus for Tertullian the glory of the church at 
Rome consisted precisely in the fact that Peter and Paul had 

5 Agrippa Castor in Eusebius, H.E., IV, 7:7; Origen, Horn, in Ezech., Ill, 4; 
Comm. Ser. in Matt., 38. Possibly this represents the view of the later fol- 
lowers of Basilides, rather than Basilides himself; at any rate, it is difficult 
to see how this can be reconciled with the statements of Basilides cited by 
Clement (Strom., IV, 83), 

6 Strom., IV, 71. 

7 For the following, cf. H. Delehaye, Les Origiws du Culte des Martyrs (and 
edition, 1933). E. Lucius, Die Anfdnge des Heiligenkults (1904), remains of 
high value. 



390 ORIGEN 

died there during the Neronian persecution. Naturally there- 
fore a martyr's death was accepted with joy. Deo gratias, said 
Cyprian of Carthage as the proconsul pronounced the death- 
sentence. 

Above all, the Gospel saying (Luke 12:11-12) was a guaran- 
tee that the martyr before his judges was possessed by the Holy 
Spirit. It is scarcely surprising that exaggerated claims were 
made by those who had boldly confessed their faith. As vehicles 
of the Spirit they surely had power to remit sins to the lapsed, 
an attitude of mind which caused Cyprian much trouble. 
Zealots would do all in their power to provoke the authorities, 
and measures had to be taken by church authorities to deny the 
title of martyr to the provocative. Such men were regarded as 
suicides. The confessor in prison could be sure of the assiduous 
visits of the faithful who would bring him food and kiss his 
chains. Lucian's satire on The Death of Peregrinus is a vivid con- 
temporary caricature of these attentions and the abuse to which 
they could easily lead. 

By death the martyr was assured of an absolute remission of 
all his sins. Even a catechumen, not yet baptized in water, could 
have all stain of sin washed away by the baptism of blood, 8 and 
could enter Paradise in white robes. There he joined with all 
other martyrs and confessors in interceding for the Church on 
earth.9 

On the anniversary of his "birthday," i.e., the day when he 
entered the life of the world to come, the faithful would gather 
at his tomb outside the city, and a sermon would be preached 
on the theme of his noble witness to Christ. Local churches 
carefully preserved records of the date of each martyr's ' 'birth- 
day," and the lists they made were the first church calendars. 
The earliest surviving calendar is that used by the church at 
Rome in the middle of the fourth century. 

It is only natural that sometimes the instinct for revenge took 
hold of the martyrs, although this is usually sublimated to the 
next world with the threat of worse punishment for the per- 
secutors there. This psychological reaction seems to have con- 
tributed substantially to the lurid nature of some Christian 
language about hell, and that this is a vera causa in Tertullian's 

* Cf. Origen, Exh. Mart., 30, 39. 

9 Cf. Origen, Exh. Mart., 37-38. Tertullian held that while all other 
Christians remained in Hades till the last judgment, martyrs were at 
once admitted to paradise. See J. H. Waszink's commentary on Tertul- 
lian, de Anima, 55. 



EXHORTATION TO MARTYRDOM 391 

mind is obvious from the well-known last chapter of his De 
Spectaculis. The idea is implied in the common notion that at the 
last day the martyr will sit in judgment on those who were his 
judges on earth (cf. Origen, Exh. Mart.., 28). 

The particular value of martyrdom consisted in that the 
martyr knew himself to be in mystical union with his Lord in 
his passion. Origen, when seventeen years of age, had lost his 
father in the persecution of Septimius Severus, and was only 
prevented from going out to martyrdom himself by the fact 
that his mother concealed his clothes (Eusebius, H.E., VI, 2:5). 
This experience he never forgot. Origen always prized per- 
secution because it revealed who in the Church were true 
believers. Writing in the period of peace before the Decian per- 
secution broke out, he looks wistfully back to the days of conflict 
with the government: "That was the time when Christians 
really were faithful, when the noble martyrdoms were taking 
place, when after conducting the martyrs' bodies to the 
cemeteries we returned thence to meet together, and the entire 
church was present without being afraid, and the catechumens 
were being catechized during the very time of the martyrdoms 
and while men were dying who had confessed the truth unto 
death. . . . Then we knew and saw wonderful and miraculous 
signs. Then there were true believers, few in number but truly 
faithful, treading the strait and narrow way which leads to life. 
But now when we have become many, . . . out of the multitude 
who profess piety there are extremely few who are attaining to 
the election of God and to blessedness." 10 Only the martyr, felt 
Origen, truly followed Christ and was in union with him. The 
disciple who takes up his cross and follows Jesus attains, he says, 
to an immediate knowledge of God whom he sees face to face. 11 
This is a belief fundamental to Origen's ideas about the nature 
of the Church and of the spiritual life. It is for this reason that 
Origen's Exhortation to Martyrdom is so moving a document, and 
tells us so much of the spirit of the early Church. 

The Exhortation to Martyrdom is preserved in two Greek manu- 
scripts at Paris and Venice: Codex Paris. Suppl. Gr., 616, dated 
1339 (of this there are also two copies), and Codex Venet. 

10 Horn, in Jerem.^ IV, 3. 

11 Exh. Mart., 13. The importance of this background for understanding 
Origen's mystical language is admirably brought out by J. Lebreton, "La 
source et le caractere de la mystique d'Orig&ne," in Analecta Bollandiana, 
LXVII (- Melanges Paul Peeters, I), 1949, pp. 55-62. The language of 
"deification" is applied to the martyrs in Exh. Mart.,, 25. 



39 2 ORIGEN 

Marc., 45, of the fourteenth century. 12 The standard critical 
edition of the text, which is here translated, is that of Paul 
Koetschau in the Berlin Academy corpus (1899). Koetschau 
also produced a German translation in 1926, with some valu- 
able textual notes (Bibliothek der Kirchenvater, Band 48). A 
French translation by G. Bardy appeared in 1932. Both of these 
translations I have found useful in revising my own. 

12 The Venice manuscript belonged to Cardinal Bessarion and contains a 
remarkable note in his hand expressing the fervour of his admiration for 
Origen \vhich had led him to seek everywhere for copies of his works. 
See Koetschau's edition, p. xvii. 



Exhortation to Martyrdom 

THE TEXT 

I. "You who have been weaned from milk, who have been 
drawn away from the breast: expect tribulation upon tribula- 
tion, expect hope upon hope; a little longer, a little longer, be- 
cause of the scorn of lips, by another tongue." 1 

And you, most reverend Ambrose, and most religious Pro- 
toctetus, as being no longer carnal, nor being babes in Christ, 2 
who have advanced in your spiritual age, 3 and have no more 
need of milk but of solid food, 4 are according to Isaiah's words 
as "those who have been weaned from milk" and "drawn away 
from the breast." Hear how the prophet foretells for athletes 
who have been weaned not merely tribulation but a "tribula- 
tion upon tribulation." But he who does not refuse tribulation 
upon tribulation, but accepts it like a noble athlete, immedi- 
ately receives also "hope upon hope" which he will enjoy after 
but a short time of the tribulation upon tribulation. For that is 
the meaning of "a little longer, a little longer." 

2. Even if we are scorned and despised by those who treat us 
as blasphemers and fools, and who are strangers to the language 
of the holy scriptures, let us remember that the hope upon hope, 
which after a little while will be given to us, is to be given "be- 
cause of the scorn of lips, by another tongue." And who would 
not gladly receive tribulation upon tribulation if he is at once 
to receive also hope upon hope, reckoning with Paul that "the 
sufferings of this present time," by which as it were we buy our 
salvation, "are not worthy to be compared with the glory which 
shall be revealed to us" 5 by God? So much the more, in fact, 
since "our light affliction which is but for a moment" (light not 

i Isa. 28:9-11. 2 Cf. I Cor. 3:1. 3 Qf. Luke 2:52. 

4 Heb. 5:12. 5 Rom. 8:18. 

393 



394 ORIGEN 

merely in words, but also in fact for those who are not depressed 
by the difficulties) "works in us a weight of eternal glory" 6 
which is greater in proportion to the severity of the affliction. 
This is true if at the very moment when we are attacked by 
those who afflict us and desire, so to speak, to press down our 
souls, we turn our mind away from the troubles and fix our 
gaze not on the tribulations that are upon us, but on the re- 
wards which by God's grace are laid up for those who have 
striven lawfully 7 in Christ because they have borne affliction 
patiently. For God multiplies the benefits and grants far greater 
favours than are deserved by the distress experienced by the 
man who fights through it. This is in character for him who 
makes his gifts not in any miserly fashion, but with generosity 
and understanding to those who to the best of their ability have 
shown by their scorn for their "earthen vessel" 8 that they love 
him with all their soul, 

3. I think that they love God with all their soul who with a 
great desire to be in union with God withdraw and separate 
their soul not only from the earthly body but also from every- 
thing material. Such men accept the putting away of the body 
of humiliation 9 without distress or emotion when the time 
come for them to put off the body of death by what is commonly 
regarded as death. Then they may be heard to pray with the 
apostle saying: "O wretched man that I am, who shall deliver 
me from this body of death?" 10 Who among those who groan 
in this tabernacle because they are weighed down by the cor- 
ruptible body 11 will not also first give thanks saying: "Who shall 
deliver me from this body of death?" He sees that by his con- 
fession 12 he has been delivered from the body of death and with 
holy lips will cry: "Thanks be to God through Jesus Christ our 
Lord." 13 If this seems difficult to anyone, it is because he has not 
been "athirst for the living God, the strong God," nor has he 
longed for God "like as the hart desires the water springs." Nor 
has he said: "When shall I come and appear in the presence 
of God?" Nor has he considered in his mind as the prophet did 
when it was said to him every day, "Where is thy God?" and he 
poured out his heart upon himself, and rebuked it because it 
was still weak, overcome by sadness, and distressed, saying: 

e II Cor. 4:17. 7 II Tim. 2:5. 8 n Cor. 4:7. 

9 Phil. 3:21. 10 Rom. 7:24. 

11 II Cor. 5:4; Wisdom of Solomon 9:15. 

12 Read with Koetschau's translation: 

13 Rom. 7:25. 



EXHORTATION TO MARTYRDOM 395 

"For I shall pass through in the place of the wonderful taber- 
nacle as far as the house of God, with a voice of rejoicing and of 
confession of a festal sound. " 14 

4. I beseech you, therefore, throughout the present conflict 
to remember the great reward laid up in the heavens for those 
who are persecuted and reviled for righteousness' sake and for 
the Son of Man's sake, 15 and that you rejoice and be glad and 
exult just as the apostles rejoiced when on one occasion they 
were "counted worthy to suffer insults for his name." 16 And if 
sometimes you feel anguish in your soul, may the mind of Christ 
within us speak to the soul, even though desire does everything 
possible to confuse even this mind of Christ, saying: "Why art 
thou sad, O my soul? And why do you disquiet me? Put thy 
trust in God, for I will make confession of him." 17 And again, 
I pray that our souls may never be troubled, but that, even 
before the tribunals and before the swords unsheathed to behead 
us, they may be kept by the peace of God which passes all 
understanding 18 and may enjoy tranquillity, reckoning that 
those who are absent from the body are present with the Lord 19 
of the universe himself. But if we have not such courage as to re- 
main always without anxiety, at least let the distress of our 
soul be not displayed nor apparent to the pagan onlookers, that 
we may be able to defend ourselves to God saying to him: "O 
God, my soul is vexed within me." 20 The Word exhorts us to 
remember also the words of Isaiah as follows: "Fear not the 
reproach of men, and be not cast down by their contempt." 21 
Moreover, since God manifestly watches over the movement of 
the heaven and the stars in it and over that which takes place 
by his divine arrangement in earth and sea, in the birth and 
nourishment of all kinds of animals and in the origin and growth 
of all plants, it would be absurd for us to shut our eyes and not 
to look to God, but in fear to turn our eyes upon men who will 
shortly die and be handed over to the punishment they deserve. 
5. God once said to Abraham: "Get out of thy land." 22 
Perhaps it will shortly be said to us: "Get out of the earth 
altogether." And it will be good to obey the command, so that 
God may quickly show us the heavens in which is the kingdom 
of heaven as it is called. We can readily perceive that life is full 
of conflicts and of men engaged in a struggle concerning the 

n Ps. 42 (4i):2-3, ii-is. 15 Cf. Matt. 5:10-12; Luke 6:23. 

16 Acts 5:41. i? Ps. 42 (41) :6, 12. is Phil. 4:7. 

19 II Cor. 5:8. 20 p s . 43 (4i):6-7. *i Isa. 51:7. 

22 Gen. 12:1. 



396 ORIGEN 

various different virtues. Many who do not belong to the por- 
tion of God 23 appear to have fought to attain self-control, and 
some have died a heroic death because of their loyalty to the 
common Master of all men. Men eminent in philosophical in- 
quiry have been anxious to be prudent; men who have made it 
their purpose to live rightly have devoted themselves to right- 
eousness. Indeed, each virtue is opposed either by "the carnal 
mind" or by many attacks from external sources. But the only 
people to fight for religion are "the elect race, the royal priest- 
hood, the holy nation, a people for God's possession." 24 The 
rest of mankind do not even try to make it appear that, if there 
is persecution of religious people, they intend to die for religion 
and to prefer death rather than deny their religion and live. 
And each one of those who wish to be members of the elect race 
is convinced that at all times, even when he is attacked by those 
who are supposed to be polytheists but are really atheists, he 
must listen to God, who says, "Thou shalt have none other gods 
but me," 25 and "The name of other gods ye shall not remember 
in your hearts, nor mention with your mouth." 26 Accordingly, 
such people "believe in God with the heart unto righteousness, 
and with the mouth make confession unto salvation." 27 They 
are aware that they are not granted righteousness until they so 
believe in God that their heart remains unmoved, and that they 
will not be saved unless their word corresponds to their inner 
conviction. They deceive themselves who suppose that it is 
sufficient for the attainment of the end in Christ if with the heart 
they believe unto righteousness, omitting the words "but with 
the mouth confession is made unto salvation." Indeed, I would 
go so far as to say that it is better to honour God with Hps when 
one's heart is far from God 28 than to honour him with the heart 
and not to make confession with the mouth unto salvation. 

6. God who commands, "Thou shalt not make for thyself an 
idol nor any image of anything," 29 and so on, appears to dis- 
tinguish between "Thou shalt not bow down to them" and 
"Thou shalt not worship them." Accordingly, perhaps he who 
believes in idols may worship them, but he who does not believe 
in them, moved by cowardice to make a pretence which he calls 
accommodating himself, 30 so as to seem to be religious like the 

23 Cf. Deut. 32:9. 24 Ex. ig: 6; I p e t 2:9. 25 Ex. 20:3. 

26 Ex. 23:13. 27 Rom. 10:10. 28 I S a 2 q-iq 

29 EX. 20:4-5. y ' * 

3Q Cf. Origen, contra Celstm, VII, 66, with my note thereon. For the attitude 
of the gnostic sects in time of persecution see above, Introduction, p. 389. 



EXHORTATION TO MARTYRDOM 397 

multitude, does not worship the idols, but only bows down to 
them. And I would say that those who abjure Christianity at the 
tribunal, or even before arriving there, do not worship the idols, 
but only bow down to them, taking the name of the Lord and 
applying the word "God" to vain and lifeless matter. In their 
matter also the people "defiled with the daughters of Moab" 31 
bowed down to idols but did not worship them. At any rate 
Scripture says in these very words: "They called them to the 
sacrifices of their idols, and the people ate of their sacrifices and 
bowed down to their idols and were initiated into Beelphegor." 32 
Notice that it does not say, "And they worshipped their idols." 
For it was impossible that after such remarkable signs and 
wonders they should be persuaded in an instant by the women 
with whom they committed fornication to believe that the idols 
were gods. Perhaps in the same way also at the making of the 
calf in Exodus they bowed down, but did not worship the calf 
which they had watched being made. 33 

We must therefore regard the present temptation as a trial 
and test of our love for God. "For the Lord tempts you," as it is 
written in Deuteronomy, "to know whether you love the Lord 
your God with all your heart and with all your soul." 34 But you, 
when you are tempted, "will follow the Lord your God and will 
fear him and keep his commandments," especially noting the 
precept, "Thou shalt have none other gods but me," and you 
"will hear his voice and obey him" who takes you from this 
earthly region and attaches you to himself for "the increase of 
God" 35 in him, to use the apostle's language. 

7. But if "every evil word is an abomination to the Lord thy 
God," 36 what abomination must be the evil word of denial and 
the evil word that calls upon another god, and the evil oath by 
the "fortune" of men, a word that corresponds to no reality. 37 
When this oath is required of us, let us remember him who 
taught us: "But I say unto you, Swear not at all." 38 For if he 
who swears by heaven insults the throne of God, and if he who 
swears by earth utters blasphemy by making a god of what is 
called "God's footstool," and if he who swears by Jerusalem sins 
even though it is a city of a great King, and if he who swears by 
his own head 39 is doing wrong: how great a sin must we think it 

3i Num. 25:1. 32 Num 25:2-3. 33 Ex. 32:8. 

34 Deut. 13:3-4. 35 Col. 2:19. 

36 Cf. Matt. 12:36; Prov. 15:26. 

37 See Origen, contra Celsum, VIII, 65, with my note thereon. 

38 Matt. 5:34.. 39 Matt. 5:35-6. 



398 ORIGEN 

to swear by some man's fortune? At that time let us also bear in 
mind the word: 'Tor every idle word you shall give account in 
the day of judgment." 40 For what other word is so idle as the 
oath of denial? 

But it is probable that the enemy wishes to use every argu- 
ment in his power to make us worship the sun or the moon or all 
the host of heaven. 41 But we will reply that the word of God 
"has not commanded this. 53 We ought on no account to worship 
the creatures in the presence of the Creator 42 who is sufficient 
for and anticipates the prayer of all. Nor indeed would the sun 
himself wish to be worshipped by those who belong to the por- 
tion of God, 43 and probably not even by anyone else. But he 
might imitate him who said, "Why do you call me good? There 
is none good but the one God the Father," 44 and, as it were, say 
to him who desires to worship him: "Why do you call me God? 
There is one true God. And why do you bow down to me? 
Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God and him only shalt thou 
serve.' 45 1 also am a created being. Why do you wish to worship 
one who himself offers worship? I also worship and serve God 
the Father and in obedience to his commands I am made sub- 
ject to futility on account of him who put me in subjection in 
hope, and I shall be liberated from the bondage of corruption, 
even though I am now bound to a corruptible body, into the 
liberty of the glory of the children of God." 46 

8. It is only to be expected that some prophet of impiety (and 
perhaps not merely one but several) will tell us some alleged 
"word of the Lord, which the Lord has not commanded," 47 or 
put out as a "word of wisdom" 48 something quite alien to wis- 
dom, to slay us with the word of his mouth. But we, even at that 
very moment when the sinner confronts us, should say: "But 
like a deaf man I heard not, and like a dumb man who opens 
not his mouth; and I became like a man who cannot hear." 49 
Deafness to blasphemous words is excellent when we have no 
hope of correcting those whose words are evil. 

g. It is well for us to reflect, at the moments when we are 
tempted to do wrong, upon that which God desires to teach us 
when he says: "I the Lord thy God am jealous." 50 In my opinion 

40 Matt. 12:36. 4i Deut. 17:3. 42 R O m. 1:25. 

43 Deut. 32:9. 

44 Mark 10:18; Luke 18:19. Cf. Origen, contra Celsum, V, n; de Orat., XV, 4. 
(above, p. 271). 

45 Matt. 4:10. 46 Rom. 8:20-21. 47 Deut. 18:20, 22. 
48 I Cor. 12:8. 49 p s . 38:13-14. 50 Ex, 20:5. 



EXHORTATION TO MARTYRDOM 399 

just as the husband who is concerned to help his bride to live 
chastely, to bring all her affection towards her husband and to 
take every precaution to avoid another man, if he is wise, will 
show some jealousy and will adopt this attitude to his bride as 
a precautionary remedy: so also the Lawgiver (especially if it be 
clear that he is "the firstborn of all creation" 5 i) says to the soul 
betrothed to God that he is jealous. His purpose is to separate 
the hearers from all fornication with daemons and with the sup- 
posed gods. It is as a jealous God that he says of those who have 
in any way gone a-whoring after other gods: "They provoked 
me to jealousy against that which is not God, they made me 
wrathful against their idols. And I will provoke them to jealousy 
with people who are not a nation, I will make them wrathful 
against a foolish nation. For the fire is kindled from my anger, 
and it shall burn to the bottom of Hades." 52 

10. If it is not for his own sake that the husband, wise and 
without passion, seeks to turn his betrothed from all defilement, 
it is for her sake; because he sees her defilement and impurity he 
will do all in his power to cure and convert her. To her free will 
he will speak words to dissuade her from fornication. What 
worse pollution for the soul can one imagine than to call upon 
another God and not to confess the one true and only Lord? I 
believe that just as "he who is joined to a harlot is one body/' 53 
so also he who confesses faith in any god, especially at a time of 
persecution and trial of faith, is mingled and united with the 
god whom he confesses. He who denies is separated by the very 
act of denial like a cutting sword, from him whom he denies; he 
suffers alienation and is severed from him whom he has denied. 
Consider therefore the scripture: "Whosoever confesses me be- 
fore men, him shall I confess before my Father in heaven, [and 
whosoever denies me before men him shall I deny before my 
Father in heaven.]" 54 This implies that it necessarily and in- 
evitably follows that he who confesses is confessed and he who 
denies is denied. The very Logos and very Truth might say 
both to him who confesses and him who denies: "The measure 
you apply to others is the measure that shall be applied to 
you." 55 You therefore who have measured with the measure of 
confession of faith in me and have fulfilled 56 the measure of the 
confession, will receive the measure of my confession, "shaken 

5i Col. 1:15. 52 Deut. 32:21-22. 53 1 Cor. 6:16. 

54 Matt. 10:32-33. The second half (verse 33) is lacking in the manuscripts, 
but appears to be necessary for the sense of the passage. 

55 Luke 6:38. 56 Cf. Matt. 23:32. 



400 ORIGEN 

together, pressed down, and running over" which shall be given 
into your bosom. 57 But you who have measured with the 
measure of denial and have denied me shall receive the measure 
of my denial of you, corresponding to the denial you have made 
of me. 

11. Let us in this way consider how the measure of confession 
may be filled up or how it may be not filled but left deficient. If 
throughout the time of trial and temptation we give no place in 
our hearts to the devil, 58 who wishes to defile us with evil 
thoughts of denial or hesitancy or some plausible argument 
which may tempt us to the very opposite of martyrdom and 
perfection; and if, furthermore, we pollute ourselves by not a 
word contrary to our profession, and if we bear all the ad- 
versaries 5 reproach and mockery and laughter and slander, and 
the pity which they think they have for us, imagining us dupes 
and fools and calling us deluded; if, moreover, we are not dis- 
tracted or held even by affection for our children or for their 
mother or for one of those whom we regard as our dearest 
friends in this life, so as to value their possession and to prize our 
earthly life, but turn away from these ties and become wholly 
dedicated to God and to living in his company and presence 
that we may share communion with his only-begotten Son and 
those who participate in him 59 : then I would affirm that we 
have fulfilled the measure of the confession. But if we fall short 
even in any one point, we have not fulfilled it, but have defiled 
the measure of our confession and have adulterated it with 
something foreign. In that case we shall be lacking, in the same 
way as those who have built upon the foundation wood, or hay, 
or stubble. 60 

12. We must also realize that we have received the so-called 
covenants of God on conditions, set forth in the agreements 
which we made with him when we first took upon us to live the 
Christian life. And among the terms of our agreement with God 
was the entire way of life set forth in the gospel which says: "If 
any man will follow me, let him deny himself and take up his 
cross and follow me. For whosoever wishes to save his life shall 
lose it, and whosoever loses his life for my sake, he will save it." 61 
And often we have been filled with enthusiasm on hearing the 
words: "For what shall it profit a man if he gain the whole world 
and lose his own soul? Or what shall a man give in exchange for 
his soul? For when the Son of Man shall come in the glory of his 

57 Luke 6:38. 58 Eptu 4:27. 59 Of. Heb. 3:14. 

o I Cor. 3:12. si Matt. 16:24-25, 



EXHORTATION TO MARTYRDOM 40! 

Father with his angels, even then shall he render to each man 
according to his work." 62 

That it is necessary to deny oneself and take up one's cross 
and follow Jesus is recorded not merely by Matthew., whose 
text we have been quoting, but also by Luke and Mark. Hear 
the words of Luke: "He said to them all. If any man wishes to 
follow me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow 
me. For whosoever wishes to save his life shall lose it; but who- 
soever shall lose his life for my sake, he shall save it. For what 
will it profit a man if he gain the whole world and lose or forfeit 
himself?" 63 Mark says: "And calling the crowd with his dis- 
ciples, he said to them, If any man wishes to follow me, let him 
deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. For whosoever 
wishes to save his life shall lose it; and whosoever shall lose it for 
the gospel's sake shall save it. But what shall it profit a man if 
he gain the whole world and lose his own soul? For what shall a 
man give in exchange for his soul?" 64 

Long ago we ought to have denied ourselves, saying, "It is no 
longer I who live." 65 Now it is revealed whether or not we have 
taken up our cross and followed Jesus. This will have happened 
if Christ is living in us. If we wish to save our soul, so that we 
may receive it back as better than a soul, 66 let us lose it even by 
martyrdom. For if we lose it for Christ's sake, throwing it at his 
feet in dying for him, we acquire its true salvation. But if we do 
the opposite, then we shall hear that it does not profit one who 
gains the whole material world at the price of losing or for- 
feiting himself. Once a man has lost his own soul or forfeited it, 
even if he gain the whole world, it will not be possible for him 
to pay anything in exchange for the soul he has lost. For the 
soul created in the image of God 67 is more precious than any- 
thing material. One person alone has been able to pay the price 
of our soul which was previously lost, he who bought us with his 
own precious blood. 68 

13. With profound meaning Isaiah says: "I gave Egypt for 

62 Matt. 16:26-27. 63 Luke 9:23-25. 64 Mark 8:34-37. 

65 Gal. 2:20. 

6<s That is, as nous. Cf. Origen, de Principiis, II, 8:3: "The soul when saved 
remains a soul no longer." Origen explains that psyche, which with other 
ancient writers he connected with the Greek word for growing cold, is not 
a suitable term for a rational being that has recovered the warmth of its 
love for God lost by the Fall. Horn, in Lucam, XXXVI (on Luke 17:33): 
". . . let us lose our soul that by cleaving to the Lord we may be trans- 
formed into one spirit." 

67 Gen. 1:27. 68 I Pet. 1:19. 

A.C. 26 



402 ORIGEN 

thy ransom, and Ethiopia and Syene for thee, for thou wast 
precious in my sight. 3 ' 69 The right meaning of this and other 
such sayings you will understand if you have a desire for know- 
ledge in Christ and even now wish to surpass that which is seen 
"through a glass, darkly/ 3 and hasten towards him who has 
called you. Then as never before you will comprehend "face to 
face, 3 ' 70 as friends of the heavenly Father who is your teacher. 
Friends know not by obscure hints, or by mere knowledge of 
sounds and words, symbols and types, but by a real awareness 
through which they attain to the nature of the intelligible world 
and to the beauty of the truth. If you believe that Paul was 
caught up to the third heaven, and was caught up to Paradise 
and heard unspeakable words which man cannot utter, 71 you 
will accordingly realize that you will have immediate know- 
ledge of more and greater matters than the unspeakable words 
revealed to Paul. For after receiving them he descended from 
the third heaven, whereas after you have acquired this know- 
ledge you will not descend again, if you take up your cross and 
follow Jesus whom we have as "a great high priest who has 
passed through the heavens. 3 ' 72 And if you do not fall away 
from those who follow him you yourselves shall pass through the 
heavens, passing not merely above earth and the mysteries of 
earth, but even above the heavens and their mysteries. For in 
God there are treasured up much greater visions than these, 
which no being with a material body can perceive before it is 
separated from every contact with matter. For I am persuaded 
that God is keeping and storing in himself far greater wonders 
than are seen by sun, moon, and the choir of stars, and even by 
the holy angels whom God made "spirit" and "flame of fire," 73 
so that he may reveal them when the whole creation is liberated 
from the bondage of the enemy to the liberty of the glory of the 
children of God. 74 

14. And to those exalted heights 75 the ascent will be quickly 
made by one of those first martyrs, who have a Christian love of 
learning surpassing many others. But you, devout Ambrose, can 
see by close study of the gospel saying that probably nobody at 
all, or at any rate only very few, will attain to an exceptional 
and transcendent wealth of blessedness. You yourself will attain 
to this if you pass through the conflict without hesitating. The 

& Isa. 43:3-4. ^ TO I Cor, 13:12. 7i II Cor. 12:2, 4. 

72 Heb. 4:14. On this passage cf. Introduction, p. 391, 

73 Ps. 104 (103)14; Heb. 1:7. 74 R om . 8:521. 
75 Read with Koetschau's translation: eV /ceiva. 



EXHORTATION TO MARTYRDOM 403 

words read as follows: Peter once said to the Saviour, "Behold 
we have left all and followed you. What shall our reward be? 
Jesus said to them" (that is the apostles) " Verily I say to you 
that you who have followed me, in the regeneration when God 76 
shall sit upon the throne of his glory, shall yourselves sit upon 
twelve thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel. And everyone 
who has left brothers or sisters or children or lands or houses 
for my sake, shall receive manifold reward and shall inherit 
everlasting life." 77 On account of these words I pray that even 
if I possessed as many earthly possessions as you do, or even more 
than that, I may become a martyr for God in Christ that I may 
receive manifold, 78 or as Mark says "a hundredfold," 7 * which 
is far more than the little we leave behind, which if we are 
called to martyrdom is multiplied a hundred times. 

Therefore if I am to be a martyr, I would wish to leave chil- 
dren and lands and houses that with "the God and Father of our 
Lord Jesus Christ, from whom all fatherhood in heaven and earth 
is named" 80 1 may be called father of children many times more 
numerous and holy or, to give an exact figure, of a hundred 
times more children. If there are fathers such as are mentioned 
in the words spoken to Abraham, "But thou shalt go to thy 
fathers in peace, having lived to a good old age," 81 someone 
might say (whether the suggestion is right or wrong I do not 
know) : Perhaps there are fathers who once bore witness and 
left children, and in exchange for these they have become the 
fathers of the patriarch Abraham and of other patriarchs; for 
it is probable that those who have left children by bearing their 
witness become fathers not of infants but of fathers. 

15. If anyone who as it were desires the greatest gifts, and 
blesses the martyrs as rich men and fathers who will beget a 
hundred times more children and will receive a hundred times 
more lands and houses, asks if it is reasonable that they should 
obtain a far larger inheritance in the spiritual world than those 
who were poor in this life, my reply to him is this. Just as those 
who have endured torments and agony have shown a more dis- 
tinguished virtue by their martyrdom than those who have not 
been tried in this way, so also those who besides their normal 
attachment to the material world and for this life have cut free 
from very strong worldly ties because of their profound love for 

76 \Ve expect "the Son." Elsewhere Origen quotes this text in the usual 

form. 77 Matt. 19:27-29. 

78 Matt. 19:29. 79 Mark 10:30. 80 Eph. 3:15. 

si Gen. 15:15. Cf. Origen, Dial. c. Heracl., p. 166, Scherer (below, p. 452)* 



404 ORIGEN 

God and true grasp of "the word of God which is living and 
active and sharper than any two-edged sword/' 82 are enabled 
by the act of cutting free from these ties to make for themselves 
wings like an eagle's, and so to "return to the house of their 
master. 3583 It is right, therefore, that just as those who have not 
been tried by pain and agony yield first place to those whose 
patience has been manifested on the rack and by various kinds 
of torture and by fire, so also we poor men, even if we are 
martyrs, quite reasonably yield first place to you who for your 
Christian love for God trample underfoot the deceitful glory 
that most men seek after, and your great possessions and affec- 
tion for your children. 

1 6. Notice at the same time the gravity of the scripture which 
promises multiplication, even to a hundred times, of brothers, 
children, parents, lands, and homes. But a wife is not included 
in this list. For scripture does not say: Everyone who has left 
brothers or sisters or parents or children or lands or houses or 
a wife for my sake, will receive manifold reward. "For at the 
resurrection of the dead they neither marry nor are given in 
marriage, but are as the angels in heaven." 84 

1 7. The scripture might say to us now what Joshua said to the 
people when bringing them to settle in the holy land. The text 
reads as follows: "Now fear the Lord and serve in truth and 
righteousness." 85 If we are being pressed to idolatry the next 
words also would be applicable: "Destroy the foreign gods 
whom your fathers worshipped on the far side of the river and 
in Egypt, and worship the Lord." 86 

At the beginning when you were to be instructed in the 
Christian faith it would have been reasonable to say to you: "If 
you do not wish to serve the Lord, choose you this day whom you 
will serve, whether the gods of your fathers on the far side of the 
river or the gods of the Amorites, among whom you inhabit the 
land." And the catechist might have said to you: "As for me and 
my house, we will serve the Lord, for he is holy." But now it is 

82 Heb. 4:12. 83 Prov. 23:5, 

s 4 Matt. 22:30; Mark 12:25. Cf. Jerome, Comm. in Matt., Ill (Migne, P.L., 
XXVI, 1456): "On the ground of this saying [i.e., Matt. 19:29] some 
believe there will be a thousand years after the resurrection and assert 
that then we are to be given a hundredfold of all that we have left behind 
us and everlasting life. They fail to understand that if in reference to other 
things the promise appears right and proper, yet of wives it is obviously 
improper, since it implies that if a man has left one for the Lord's sake, he 
will receive a hundred in the future life." 

$ 5 Josh. 24:14. 8 $ Josh. 24:14. 



EXHORTATION TO MARTYRDOM 405 

not possible to say this to you. For at that time you said: "God 
forbid that we should forsake the Lord and serve other gods. 
The Lord our God, he is God, who brought us and our fathers 
up out of Egypt and kept us in all the way in which we 
journeyed." Moreover, in the agreements concerning religion 
you long ago made this reply to your instructors: "We will serve 
the Lord, for he is our God." 87 If, then, he who breaks agree- 
ments with men is one with whom no peace can be made and 
who is alien to salvation, what are we to say of those who by 
denial abrogate the agreements they have made with God and 
return to Satan whom they renounced at their baptism? To this 
we should say the words spoken by Eli to his sons: "If a man 
sins against a man, prayer may be made for him; but if he sins 
against the Lord, who shall pray for him?" 88 

1 8. A great audience is gathered to watch you who are en- 
gaged in conflict and are called to martyrdom, such as we 
might compare 89 to the vast crowd that gathers to watch the 
conflict between famous popular wrestlers. As you fight you 
may say no less than Paul, "We are become a spectacle to the 
world and to angels and to men." 90 The whole world, then, and 
all the angels of the right and left 91 and all men, both those who 
belong to God's portion 92 and the rest, will be watching us as 
we fight for Christianity. Either the angels in heaven will rejoice 
over us, and "the rivers will clap their hands together, and the 
hills sing for joy," and "all the trees of the plain shall clap their 
branches," 93 or, which God forbid, those who rejoice will be the 
hellish powers that delight in evil. It is not inappropriate to see 
in a passage from Isaiah 94 what will be said by the powers of 
Hades to those who have been vanquished and have fallen from 
their heavenly witness. Their words will make us further 
tremble at the blasphemy of denial. For I imagine that this will 
be said to the apostate: "Hell from beneath is moved to meet 
thee. Risen up for thee are all the giants who have ruled the 
earth, who have said from their thrones all the kings of the 
earth. They shall all answer and say to thee." And what shall 
the vanquished powers say to the vanquished, and those cap- 
tured by the devil to those captured in apostasy? Shall they not 
say this: "Even you are captured as we are and you are reckoned 
one of us." And if a man who has the great and glorious hope 

87 Josh. 24:15-18. 88 I Sam. 2:25. 

s* Read with Koetschau: Ae>/ot/zev. 90 I Cor. 4:9. 

51 Cf. my note on Origen, contra Celsum, VI, 27. 92 Deut. 32:9. 

93 p s . 98 (97) :8; Isa. 55:12. 94 Isa. 14:9 ff. 



406 ORIGEN 

in God is conquered by cowardice or by tortures suffered for his 
faith in God, he will hear it said: "Thy glory is come down to 
Hell and thy great joy. Beneath thee they shall spread rotten- 
ness and a worm shall be your covering." And if one has held 
distinguished office in the churches, so that he appears to them 
as the daystar because his good works shine before men, and if 
after this in fighting the great fight he has lost the crown of such 
a throne, he shall hear it said: "How has the daystar, which 
rose at dawn, fallen from heaven? It has been trampled on the 
earth." And as by his apostasy he has become like the devil this 
shall be said to him: "He shall be cast upon the mountains like 
an abominable corpse with many other dead men pierced by 
swords who are going down to Hell. Just as a garment defiled 
with blood shall not be clean, so also thou shalt not be clean." 
For how shall he be pure who is defiled with blood and murder 
by the abominable sin of apostasy and is polluted by so terrible 
a crime? 

Let us now show that we have understood the saying: "He 
who loves his son or daughter more than me is not worthy of 
me." 95 Let us take care lest there should even be in us any 
hesitation whether to deny or to confess, lest the word of Elijah 
be also addressed to us: "How long will you limp from one leg 
to the other? If the Lord be God, follow him." 96 

19. Probably we shall be reviled by our neighbours and 
mocked at by some who come round us and shake their heads 
at us as if we were blockheads. But when this happens we may 
say to God: "Thou hast made us a reproach to our neighbours, 
a mockery and a laughing-stock to those round about us. Thou 
hast made us a byword among the nations, and the peoples 
shake their heads at us. All the day long my confidence is before 
me, and the shame of my face has covered me, from the voice 
of the reviler and accuser, from the face of the enemy and the 
persecutor." 97 Blessed are we if, when all this happens, we can 
say to God the words which the prophet boldly applied to this 
situation: "All these things are come upon us, and we have not 
forgotten thee, and we have not wronged thy covenant, and our 
heart has not gone back." 98 

20. Let us remember that while we live this life, we are to 
think of the ways that lie outside this life, saying to God: "Thou 
hast directed our paths out of thy way." " Now is the time to 

95 Matt. 10:37. 96 I Kings 18:21. 

97 Ps. 44 (43): 13-16. 98 p s . 44 ( 43 ) :I7 -i8, 

99 Ps. 44 (43): 19. 



EXHORTATION TO MARTYRDOM 407 

recalUhe fact that this earth is a place of affliction for the soul 
in which we are brought low, so that we may say in our prayers: 
"Thou hast brought us low in the place of affliction and the 
shadow of death has covered us." 1 And let us boldly say: "If we 
have forgotten the name of our God, and if we have stretched 
out our hands to any strange god, shall not God search it 
out?"* 

21. Let us so fight as to give a perfect witness not merely in 
public but also in secret, so that we also may say like the 
apostle: "This is the ground of our boasting, the witness of our 
conscience, that in holiness and the sincerity of God we behaved 
in this world." 3 We may add to the apostle's words that of the 
prophet: "He himself knows the secrets of our heart," 4 especi- 
ally if we are brought to death. Then we may say that which 
only martyrs can say to God: "For thy sake we are killed all the 
day long, we are accounted as sheep for the slaughter." 5 If ever 
"the mind of the flesh" leads us to be afraid of the judges who 
threaten us with death, we can then say to them the word from 
Proverbs: "My son, fear the Lord and thou shalt be strong. 
Fear none but him." 7 

^22. This text also is helpful for our present theme. In Eccle- 
siastes Solomon says: "I praised all the dead more than the 
living, as many as are alive until now." 8 Who could more justi- 
fiably be praised for his death than he who of his own free choice 
chooses to die for the sake of religion? Such a man was Eleazar 
"who welcomed death with honour rather than life with pollu- 
tion and of his own free choice went forward to the instrument 
of torture." He "with a noble resolution worthy of his ninety 
years and the eminence of his age and the grey hairs marking 
the distinction to which he had attained and his noble up- 
bringing since childhood, and even more of the holy laws 
appointed by God," 9 said: "It does not become my age to make 
a pretence, so that many of the young men will suppose that 
Eleazar at the age of ninety has gone over to a foreign religion. 
They would be led astray by my pretence and for the sake of a 
short and brief period of life, and I should win for my old age 
pollution and disgrace. Even if at the present time I escape the 
punishment of men, yet I shall not escape the hands of the Al- 
mighty, whether alive or dead. Therefore now I will manfully 
depart this life and show myself worthy of my old age, leaving 

i Ps. 44 (43): 19. 2 Ps. 44 (43):20-2i. 3 n Cor. 1:12. 

4 Ps. 44 (43) :2 1 . 5 p s . 44 ( 43 ) :22 . e Rom. 8 :6. 

7 Prqv. 7:1. 8 Eccles. 4:2. 9 II Maccabees 6:19, 23, 



408 ORIGEN 

a noble example to the young to encourage them to die eagerly 
and nobly for the sacred and holy laws." 10 

I beseech you, when you are at the gates of death, or rather of 
freedom, especially if you are tortured (for it is not to be ex- 
pected that you will be spared this suffering at the design of the 
hostile powers), to say this: "To the Lord who has holy know- 
ledge it is known that, though I could have been freed from 
death, I am enduring cruel bodily pains by scourging, and in 
my soul I suffer this gladly for fear of him." Such indeed was 
the death of Eleazar that it was said of him: "He left his death 
as an example of nobility and a memorial of virtue, not only to 
the young but also to the nation as a whole." 11 

23. The seven brothers described in the books of Macca- 
bees, 12 whom Antiochus tortured with "whips and scourges 5 ' 
because of their loyal adherence to their religion, constitute a 
magnificent example of courageous martyrdom to everyone who 
considers whether he will be inferior to children who not only 
endured tortures one by one but also showed how stedfastly 
they adhered to their religion by witnessing the sufferings of 
their brothers. One of them, who is called in Scripture their 
spokesman, said to the tyrant: "Why question us? What will 
you learn? For we are ready to die rather than to transgress the 
laws of our fathers?" I need not mention what they suffered 
from heated pans and cauldrons by which they were tortured 
after each had endured some different torment. For first he 
who was called their spokesman had his tongue cut out; then 
his head was scorched, and he endured the scorching as others 
undergo the circumcision appointed by God's law, believing 
that even in this way he was fulfilling the intention of the 
covenant of God. 13 Not content with this Antiochus had his 
hands and feet cut off while his other brothers and his mother 
looked on, wanting to punish his brothers and mother by the 
sight and supposing that he would move them from their resolve 
by these terrible torments. Indeed, not content with crippling 
his body by the first tortures, Antiochus ordered him to be put 
on the fire, while still alive, and fried in the pans and cauldrons. 
And as the vapour of the flesh of the noble athlete of piety, 
roasting by the cruelty of the tyrant, spread abroad, the others 

10 II Maccabees 6:24-28. 11 II Maccabees 6:30-31. 

12 II Maccabees 7. 

13 Origen seems to be thinking of the Maccabean martyr's death as the 
Jewish equivalent of the Christian baptism by blood, baptism being the 
equivalent under the new covenant of circumcision under the old. 



EXHORTATION TO MARTYRDOM 4.09 

exhorted one another with their mother to die nobly, comforting 
each other with the thought that God was seeing it all. Sufficient 
to steel them to endurance was the conviction that the eye of 
God was upon them in their suffering. And the leader of the 
athletes of piety exhorted them, being himself encouraged and, 
so to speak, filled with rejoicing by the heroism of their resist- 
ance to such fearful agonies. If we were in such a situation we 
might well repeat the words they said to each other which read 
as follows: "The Lord God beholds us and in reality is having 
compassion on us." 

24. After the first had been tested in this manner, as gold is 
proved in the crucible, the second was brought to the torture. 
After the ministers of the tyrant's cruelty had torn off his skin 
with the hair, they called upon him to change his mind, asking 
their victim if he would eat meat offered to idols before his body 
was punished limb by limb. When he refused to change his 
mind, he was led to the next torture and remained stedfast to 
his last gasp. He in no way broke down or yielded to the tor- 
ments, but said to the blasphemer: "You criminal, you remove 
us from this present life, but the King of the world shall raise us 
up to everlasting life because we have died for his laws." 

^ 25. The third also, counting his sufferings as nothing and for 
his love to God trampling upon them, when told to put out his 
tongue, did so forthwith and valiantly stretched out his hands, 
saying, "Because of God's laws I leave these behind me, but I 
hope to regain from God the rewards he grants to those who 
have fought for their religion." 

Likewise the fourth was tortured and endured the blows 
saying: "When we die at the hands of men, it is better to look 
to the hopes we have of God that we shall be raised up by him 
in a resurrection the tyrant will not know. For he will rise not 
to life but to reproach and everlasting shame." 

Next the fifth was tormented. Looking at Antiochus he re- 
viled him for that his corruptibility had not lessened his pride, 
and that he supposed tyrannical power held for a few days was 
great authority. While being tortured he said that his race had 
not been deserted by God who would inflict far worse torments 
on Antiochus and his seed. 

After him the sixth at the point of dying said: "Do not deceive 
yourself. We are paying the penalty of our sins, and are enduring 
these sufferings willingly., in order that by them we may be 
purified." And he said to the king that he must not imagine 
that he would go unpunished for daring to fight against God. 



410 ORIGEN 

For he who fights against those made divine by the Word is 
fighting God. 

26. Lastly Antiochus took the youngest in his hands and, 
being persuaded that he was a brother of those who counted 
such terrible agonies for nothing and that he had the same 
resolve as they, used other methods. He thought he might be 
won over by exhortations, and swore oaths promising to make 
him rich and happy if he would abandon his ancestral laws, 
and to enrol him among the Friends 14 and to entrust him with 
imperial offices. But as he had no success whatever and the 
young man did not even listen to his words as being alien to his 
resolve, he appealed to his mother, exhorting her to advise the 
boy to save himself. But she while agreeing to persuade her son 
to do what he wanted, mocked the tyrant by giving her son 
many exhortations to endurance, so that the boy did not wait 
for the punishment to be brought to him, but took the initiative 
and called to the torturers saying: "What are you waiting for? 
Why are you so slow? For we obey the law given by God. We 
must not accept a command contrary to God's words." More- 
over like a king pronouncing sentence on those subject to his 
judgment he pronounced sentence against the tyrant, being 
judge of him rather than being judged by him. And he told him 
that for having raised his hands against the children of heaven 
he would not escape the judgment of Almighty God who sees 
everything. 

27. At that moment one could have seen how the mother of 
these heroes, for her hope in God, bravely bore the torments 
and deaths of her sons. For the dew of piety and the cool breath 
of holiness did not allow to be kindled within her her maternal 
instinct which in most mothers faced with such severe pains 
would have been a burning fire. I believe that this story which 
I have quoted from the Scripture in abbreviated form is most 
valuable for our purpose. It enables us to see how piety and 
love for God, in face of the most painful agonies and the severest 
torments, is far more powerful than any other bond of affection. 
This love for God and human weakness cannot dwell together 
in us. Weakness is exiled and altogether driven out of our soul 
and is rendered entirely impotent where a man can say, "The 
Lord is my strength and my song" and "I can do all things 
through Christ Jesus our Lord who strengthens me." 15 

28. The value of martyrdom and the boldness it gives us 

n A title of honour given to the highest royal officials, 
is Ps. 118 (117) 114; Phil. 4:13. 



EXHORTATION TO MARTYRDOM 411 

before God we can also learn from this consideration. The saint 
who possesses a certain ambition and desires to offer something 
in return for the benefits that come to him from God, asks what 
he can do to the Lord for all that he has received from him. And 
he finds that a man with a grateful heart can render to God 
nothing else capable of being as it were a counterweight to his 
benefits except a martyr's death. For in the 1151*1 Psalm there 
is first the question: "What shall I render to the Lord for all the 
benefits he has done to me?" The answer to him who asks what 
he should render to the Lord for all the benefits he has received 
from him reads as follows: "I will take the cup of salvation and 
will call upon the name of the Lord." 16 "The cup of salvation" 
is the usual name for martyrdom, as we find in the gospel. For 
when those who are ambitious for greater honour desire to sit 
on the right and left of Jesus in his kingdom, the Lord says to 
them, "Can you drink of the cup that I drink?" n By "cup" he 
means martyrdom. This is clear from the saying, "Father, if it 
be possible, let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless, not my will 
but thine be done."i We learn, besides, that he who drinks 
of that cup that Jesus drank will sit and rule and judge with the 
King of kings. 19 This, then, is the cup of salvation, and he who 
receives it will call upon the name of the Lord. "And everyone 
that calls upon the name of the Lord shall be saved." 20 

29. But perhaps on account of the words "Father, if it be 
possible, let this cup pass from me," someone who did not ex- 
amine the meaning of Scripture closely might think that, as it 
were, even the Saviour was afraid in the hour of the passion. 21 
But if he was afraid, one might say, who ever was courageous? 
In the first place, we will ask those who hold this view of the 
Saviour if he was inferior to him who said: "The Lord is my 
light and my salvation; whom shall I fear? The Lord is the pro- 
tector of my life, of whom shall I be afraid? When evil men 
approached me to eat up my flesh, those who persecuted me and 
my enemies were struck with weakness and fell. If a host should 
be drawn up against me, my heart shall not be afraid. If war 
should rise up against me, then will I be full of hope." 22 But 

16 Ps. 116 (115) -.3-4. 17 Matt 20:22; Mark 10:38. is Mark 14:36. 
is> Gf. I Cor. 6:2; Hippolytus, 72 Dan., II, 37; Cyprian, Ep,> 6; Dionysius of 
Alexandria, in Eusebius, H.E., VI, 42:5. 

20 Joel 2:32. 

21 Cf. Celsius in Origen, contra Celsum, II, 24: "Why then does he utter loud 
laments and waitings, and pray that he may avoid the fear of death, saying 
something like this, *O Father, if this cup could pass by me?" 

22 p St 27 (26): 1-3. 



412 ORIGEN 

perhaps these words reported by the prophet are spoken by none 
other than the Saviour, since by reason of the light and salva- 
tion given to him by the Father he fears no man, and because 
of the protection granted by God he is afraid of none. His heart 
was in no way fearful when the entire host of Satan was drawn 
up against him. When war rose up against him, his heart hoped 
in God, being filled with his holy doctrines. It would not be in 
character for the same person to say in a cowardly spirit, 
"Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me," and to say 
courageously, "If a host be drawn up against me, my heart 
shall not be afraid." 

Lest we miss some point in the passage, notice the express 
designation of "the cup" in the three evangelists. According to 
Matthew the Lord said: "Father, if it be possible, let this cup 
pass from me." Luke has: "Father, if it be thy will, take this cup 
away from me." Mark has: "Abba, Father, all things are pos- 
sible to thee; take this cup away from me." 23 Consider, then, 
seeing that any martyrdom by death suffered for any cause 
whatever is called a cup, whether you could affirm that it is not 
martyrdom in general that he is putting from him when he says, 
"Let this cup pass from me" (otherwise he would have said, "Let 
the cup pass from me"), but perhaps only this particular kind. 
Consider also the possibility that the Saviour had in mind the 
various kinds of cup, so to speak, and the possible results of each 
one, and, because by a certain very profound wisdom he under- 
stood the differences, asked that this kind of martyr's death 
might be avoided, while secretly he made request for another 
which would have been even more of an ordeal, so that by a 
different cup he might achieve an even wider diffusion of bene- 
fits which would reach more people. This, however, was not the 
will of the Father who with a wisdom greater than the will of 
his Son and a vision wider than the Saviour's was controlling 
events to follow an ordered path. It is at any rate clear that in 
the Psalms the cup of salvation is the death of the martyrs. That 
is why "I will take the cup of salvation and will call upon the 
name of the Lord" is followed by the words: "Precious in the 
Lord's sight is the death of his saints." 24 To us, then, as God's 
saints who are not unworthy, there comes a precious death, in 
that our death is of some special significance if it is endured for 
the sake of Christianity and piety and holiness. 

30. Let us also remember the sins we have committed, that 
remission of sins cannot be obtained without baptism, that 
23 Matt. 26:39; Luke 22:42; Mark 14:36. 24 p s . n6 (ii5):is, 15. 



EXHORTATION TO MARTYRDOM 413 

according to the laws of the gospel it is not possible again to be 
baptized with water and the Spirit for remission of sins, and 
that a baptism of martyrdom has been given to us. That this 
name is given to it is clear from the fact that after the saying; 
"Can you drink of the cup that I drink?" there follow the words 
"Or be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with?" 25 
And elsewhere it is said: "I have a baptism to be baptized with, 
and how am I straitened until it be accomplished." 26 Consider 
whether, just as the Saviour's death brought purification to the 
world, the baptism of martyrdom may also by the service of 
those who undergo it bring purification to many. Just as those 
who attend at the altar according to the Law of Moses thought 
they obtained remissions of sins for the Jews by the blood of bulls 
and goats, 27 so the souls of those "who have been beheaded for 
the testimony of Jesus" 28 do not attend in vain at the heavenly 
altar, but mediate remission of sins to those who pray. At the 
same time we know that, just as the high priest, Jesus Christ, 
offered himself in sacrifice, 29 so the priests, whose high priest he 
is, offer themselves in sacrifice and therefore appear by the altar 
in their proper place. Those priests who are blameless and offer 
blameless sacrifices used to serve the worship of God; but those 
who were at fault, as Moses set out in Leviticus, 30 were ban- 
ished from the altar. Who then is the blameless priest who offers 
a blameless offering other than he who holds fast the confession 
and fulfils every requirement made by the doctrine of martyr- 
dom? This point we have discussed above. 31 

31. Let us not be surprised that the wonderful blessedness of 
the martyrs who enjoy deep peace and calm and rest has to be 
begun in apparently dark and, so to speak, wintry weather. It 
is by journeying in this life on the strait and narrow way 32 in 
winter that each one of the blessed will have to show what 
ability he has gained for following the right road; so that after 
this life there may be fulfilled the word in the Song of Songs 
spoken to the bride who has come through the winter: "My 
beloved, she says, answers and says to me, Arise, come my 
friend, my lovely, my dove. Behold, the winter is past, the rain 
has dispersed and gone away." 33 You also should remember 
that you cannot hear that "the winter is past" unless you have 
battled bravely and manfully with the present winter. After the 

25 Mark 10:38. 2(S Luke 12:50. 27 Heb. 9:13; 10:4. 

28 Rev. 20:4; 6:9. 29 Heb. 5:1; 7:27; 8:3; 10:12. 

30 Lev. 21:17-21. 31 Chapter n. 32 Matt. 7:14. 
33 S. ofSoL 2:10-11. 



414 ORIGEN 

winter is past and rain has gone away and dispersed the flowers 
will appear. "Planted in the house of the Lord they shall flower 
in the halls of our God. 5 ' 34 

312. And this we know, that if we have been persuaded by 
Jesus to forsake the idols and polytheistic atheism, the enemy 
cannot persuade us to commit idolatry, but he wants to compel 
us. And on this account he brings this pressure to bear on those 
over whom he has power, and either makes martyrs or idolaters 
of those who are tempted by him. Frequently even now he says: 
"All these things will I give you if you will fall down and wor- 
ship me." 35 Let us therefore take heed lest we commit idolatry 
and subject ourselves to daemons. "For the gods of the heathen 
are daemons." 36 What a terrible thing it is when a man forsakes 
Christ's easy yoke and light burden 37 and again subjects himself 
to the yoke of daemons, and bears a burden of the gravest sin 
after we have known that the heart of idol- worshippers is ash, 
and their life more worthless than dust, 38 and after we have 
spoken the words "How false are the idols our fathers possessed; 
and there is none among them that can make it rain." 39 

33. It was not merely in ancient times that Nebuchadnezzar 
set up the golden image, nor merely then that he threatened 
Ananias, Azarias, and Misael that if they would not bow down, 
he would cast them into the fiery furnace. 40 Even now Nebu- 
chadnezzar is saying the very same thing to us, the true Hebrews, 
whose home is in the next world. 41 But we, that we may experi- 
ence the heavenly dew which quenches all fire in us and re- 
freshes our mind, let us imitate those holy men lest even now 
Haman may wish you Mordecais to bow down to him, and you 
reply to him, "I will not place the glory of men higher than the 
glory of the God of Israel." 42 Let us destroy Bel by the word of 
God and kill the dragon with Daniel, 43 that when we draw near 
to the mouths of lions we can suffer no harm from them, and 
that only those responsible for our present conflict may be eaten 
up by the lions which cannot consume us. Let us be encouraged 
by the fact that among the good deeds of Job we read these 
words: "If 44 1 laid my hand on my mouth to kiss, let this also be 

34 Ps. 92 (gi):i3. 35 Matt. 4:9. 3 p s . 96 (95)15. 

37 Matt. 11:30. 38 Wisdom of Solomon 15:10. 

39 Jer. 16:19; 14:22. 40 Dan. 3:1 ff. 

41 Philo. Migr. Abrah., 20, similarly explains the word "Hebrews"; also 
Origen, Comm. in Matt., XI, 5. 

42 Esth. 4:17 (LXX), in English Apocrypha, 13:14. 

43 Bel and the Dragon, 22 ff. 44 Read with Koetschau: < 



EXHORTATION TO MARTYRDOM 415 

reckoned to me as the greatest crime." ^ For it is probable that 
they will require us to put our hand on our mouth to give a kiss. 

34. This also let us notice, that the Saviour's prophecies 
about martyrdom do not occur in the words he addressed to the 
multitude, but to the apostles. For after Scripture has first said: 
"Jesus sent out these twelve commanding them, Do not go into 
the way of the Gentiles 55 and so on, there follow these words: 
"Beware of men; for they shall deliver you to the councils, and 
shall beat you in their synagogues. And you shall be led before 
governors and kings for my sake, for a witness to them and to 
the Gentiles. But when they give you up, do not be anxious how 
or what you should speak. For it is not you that speak, but the 
Spirit of the Father speaking in you. Brother shall betray 
brother to death, a father his child, and children shall rise up 
against their parents and have them killed. And you shall be 
hated by all men for my name's sake. But he who endures to the 
end shall be saved. When they persecute you in one city flee to 
the next, and if they chase you out of that, escape to another. 
Verily I say to you, you shall not complete all the cities of 
Israel before the Son of man come." 46 

And Luke writes as follows: "When they bring you before 
synagogues and rulers and authorities, do not be anxious how 
you should reply or what you should say. For the Holy Spirit 
will teach you in that hour what you ought to say. 55 And after 
other sayings: "Settle it therefore in your hearts not to meditate 
beforehand how to answer. For I will give you a mouth and 
wisdom which all your adversaries shall not be able to withstand 
or gainsay. But you shall be delivered up even by parents and 
brethren and kinsfolk and friends, and some of you they shall 
cause to be put to death, and you shall be hated by all men for 
my name's sake. And not a hair of your head shall perish. In 
your patience possess your souls. 5 ' 47 This is Mark's account: 
"When they lead you to judgment and deliver you up, do not 
be anxious beforehand or meditate beforehand; but speak that 
which is given you in that hour. For it is not you that speak but 
the Holy Spirit, And brother shall deliver up brother to his 
death, and the father his child; and children shall rise up against 
parents and cause them to be put to death. And you shall be 
hated by all men for my name's sake. But he that endures to the 
end shall be saved." 48 

45 Job 31:27-28. The kiss required is an act of loyalty to the heathen god. 
4$ Matt. 10:5, 17-23. 47 Luke 12:11-12; 21:14-19. 

48 Mark 13;! 1-13. 



416" ORIGEN 

The following exhortations to martyrdom in Matthew are not 
addressed to any but the twelve. We too must hear them, and 
by so doing we shall be brothers of the apostles who heard them 
and be numbered with the apostles. The passage reads as fol- 
lows: "Fear not those who kill the body but are not able to kill 
the soul; fear rather him who can destroy both soul and body in 
Gehenna." And after this the Lord teaches us that it is not with- 
out divine providence that anyone comes to face the conflict of 
martyrdom. For he says: "Are not two sparrows sold for a 
farthing? Yet not one of them will fall to the earth without the 
Father who is in heaven. The hairs of your head are all num- 
bered. Fear not therefore. You are of more value than many 
sparrows. Everyone who confesses me before men will I also 
confess before my Father who is in heaven. But whosoever shall 
deny me before men, him will I also deny before my Father who 
is in heaven/' 49 Luke's words are to the same effect: "This I say 
to you, my friends. Fear not those who kill the body and after 
that have power to do nothing further. I will show you whom 
you shall fear. Fear him who after killing you has power to cast 
you into Gehenna. Yea, I say to you. Fear him. Are not five 
sparrows sold for two farthings? Yet not one of them is forgotten 
before God. But even the hairs of your head are all numbered. 
Fear not therefore. You are of more value than many sparrows. 
And I say to you: Everyone who confesses me before men, the 
Son of man will also confess before the angels of God. But he who 
denies me before men shall be denied before the angels of 
God." 50 And in another place: "Whosoever is ashamed of me 
and of my words, of him shall the Son of man be ashamed when 
he comes in his glory and in that of the Father and the holy 
angels." 51 In the same sense Mark also wrote as follows: "Who- 
soever is ashamed of me and my words in this adulterous and 
sinful generation, of him shall the Son of man be ashamed when 
he comes in the glory of the Father with the holy angels." 52 

Those who destroy us kill the life of the body. That is the 
meaning of the saying: "Fear not those who kill the body," 
which Matthew and Luke have in identical wording. For after 
they have killed the body, even if they wish they have no power 
to kill the soul. Nor have they power to do anything further. 
For how is it possible to destroy a soul which by the very act of 
confession is given life? Witness to it is given by him who exhorts 
us to martyrdom in Isaiah, and by his Son,, according to the 

49 Matt 10:28-33. 50 Luke 12:4-9. si Luke 0:26. 

" Mark 8:38. y 



EXHORTATION TO MARTYRDOM 417 

Scripture: "Be my witnesses and I will be your witness, saith 
the Lord God, and the Son whom I have chosen." 53 

^ Notice this also, that it is not to Jesus 5 servants but to his 
friends 54 that he gives this commandment: "Fear not those who 
kill the body and after that have power to do nothing further." 
We must fear, therefore, him who is able to destroy both soul 
and body in Gehenna. He alone, after killing us, has power to 
cast into Gehenna. Indeed he will cast there those who are terri- 
fied by those who kill the body and those who do not fear him 
who is able to destroy both soul and body in Gehenna, and who, 
after killing us, has power to cast us into Gehenna, If anyone's 
hairs are numbered, this is obviously true of those who are 
executed for Jesus 5 sake. We, then, will make confession in the 
Son of God even before those who are men and not gods, so that 
he whom we confess may reply to us by confessing us before his 
God and Father, he himself confessing in heaven the man who 
has confessed him on earth. 

35. Who on considering this will not cry out with the 
apostle: "The sufferings of this present time are not worthy to 
be compared with the glory that shall be revealed to us"? 55 Is 
not confession before the Father much greater than confession 
before men? And is not the confession made in heaven by him 
who is confessed far superior to the confession on earth of the 
Son of God made by the martyrs? Let anyone who thinks of 
denying him before men bear in mind the words of him who 
does not err: "I also will deny him before my Father who is in 
heaven." 

Matthew's text has: "I also will confess him before my Father 
who is in heaven/' while Luke has: "The Son of man will also 
confess him before the angels of God." 56 I ask, therefore, 
whether the firstborn of all creation, the image of the invisible 
God, 57 will confess the man who confesses him before his Father 
in heaven, while he who was "born of the seed of David accord- 
ing to the flesh," 58 and is therefore Son of man, and was born of 
a woman 59 who was herself human, and on this account is given 
the title of Son of man, whom we understand to be the humanity 
of Jesus, 60 will confess those who confess him before the angels of 
God. We might say the corresponding thing of those who deny. 

53 Isa 43:10. 54 CL John 15:15. 55 R om . 8:18. 

5<s Matt. 10:32; Luke 12:8. 57 Col. 1:15. 

58 Rom. 1 13. 59 Gal. 4:4. 

* The Greek phrase is common in Origen for the human nature of Christ; 
cf. my note in Harvard Theological Review , XLI (1948), p. 100, n.3O. 

A.C. 2 7 



418 ORIGEN 

We must further consider this point. He who confesses the 
Son before men, so far as in him lies, commends Christianity 
and the founder of Christianity before those to whom he makes 
his confession. But he who is confessed by the firstborn of all 
creation and the Son of man is commended by the confession of 
the Son of God and the Son of man to the Father in heaven and 
the angels of God. But if "it is not he who commends himself 
who is approved, but he whom the Lord commends/' 61 must 
we not think him approved who is judged worthy of commenda- 
tion to the Father in heaven and the angels of God? But if he is 
approved with those like him whom the Lord has tested by 
tortures and examinations "as gold in the crucible," and has 
accepted "as a whole burnt-offering/' 62 what must we say of 
those who have been shown up in the furnace of persecution and 
have denied? These, as not being true Christians, are denied 
before the Father in heaven and before the angels of God by 
him who denies everyone who deserves it. 

36. We have to strive not merely against denial but also lest 
we feel any shame when the enemies of God suppose that we 
are suffering shameful indignities. This is particularly applic- 
able to you, holy Ambrose. Honoured and respected by a vast 
number of cities, you are now, so to speak, walking in the 
procession bearing the cross of Jesus and following him who 
leads you before governors and kings, that he himself may go 
with you and give a mouth and wisdom to you his companion in 
the fight, Protoctetus, and to those who bear witness with you, 
who make up that which is lacking in the sufferings of Christ. 63 
He will be with you on the way to the paradise of God and will 
show you how to pass by "the cherubim and the flaming sword 
which turns and guards the way of the tree of life." 64 Though 
both of these guard the way of the tree of life, they do so to 
prevent anyone unworthy from passing through and reaching 
the tree of Hfe. For the flaming sword will lay hold of those who 
have built upon the established foundation, Jesus Christ, 
"wood or hay or stubble," 65 and the wood, so to speak, of 
denial which is quickly kindled and burns rapidly. The 
cherubim will receive those who cannot be caught by the flam- 
ing sword because they have built with nothing inflammable, 
and will conduct them to the tree of life and to all that God 

6i II Cor. 10:18. 62 Wisdom of Solomon 3:6. Col. 1:24. 

64 Gen. 3:24. Gregory of Nyssa (Orat. in XL mart., II, Migne, P.G., XLVI, 
772 AB) likewise explains that the flaming sword does not exclude every- 
one, but only the unworthy. 65 I Cor. 3:1 1-12. 



EXHORTATION TO MARTYRDOM 419 

planted in the east and caused to rise up from the earth/ 6 Since 
Jesus journeys with you to paradise scorn the serpent van- 
quished and bruised by Jesus' feet, and through him by yours 
as well, 67 for he has "given you power to trample on serpents 
and scorpions and on every power of the enemy that nothing 
should harm you. 5 ' 68 

37. We must not, therefore, deny the Son of God or be 
ashamed of him or his servants or his words, but listen to the 
saying, "Whosoever shall deny me before men, him will I also 
deny before my Father who is in heaven," and to the saying, 
"For whosoever shall be ashamed of me and mine, of him shall 
the Son of man be ashamed when he comes in his glory and in 
the glory of the Father and the holy angels," and to the words, 
"For whosoever is ashamed of me and my words in this 
adulterous and sinful generation, of him shall the Son of man 
also be ashamed when he comes in the glory of the Father with 
the holy angels." 69 

Jesus once "endured the cross and despised the shame" and 
therefore "sat down at the right hand of God." 70 His followers 
also who despise the shame will sit with him and reign in heaven 
with him who came to bring peace not on the earth but in the 
soul of his disciples, and to bring on the earth a sword. 71 For 
since "the word is God is living, and active and sharper than 
any two-edged sword, and penetrates to the separating of soul 
and spirit, the joints and the marrow, and is a judge of the 
thoughts and intents of the heart," 72 he rewards our souls, 
particularly at this present time, with the peace that passes all 
understanding, 73 which he left to his apostles. 74 But he has 
thrust a sword between the image of the earthy and the image 
of the heavenly, 75 so that now he takes the heavenly part of us 
that afterwards, if we no longer deserve to be divided into two 
parts, he may make us entirely heavenly. 

And he came to cast not merely a sword on the earth but also 
fire. Of this he said: "I wish it were already kindled." 76 Let this 
fire, therefore, be kindled in you, consuming every earthly and 
carnal thought. Show all zeal to be baptized now with the 
baptism concerning which Jesus was "straitened until it be 
accomplished." And you [Ambrose], since you have wife and 
children and brothers and sisters, remember the words: "If any 

6* Gen. 2:8-9. <*7 Rom. 16:20, ** Luke 10:19. 

69 Matt. 10:33; Luke 9:26; Mark 8:38. 70 Heb. 12:2; 8:1. 

7i Matt. 10:34. 72 Heb. 4:12. Phil. 4:7. 

74 John 14:27. 75 I Cor. 15:49. 76 Luke 12:49-50. 



42O ORIGEN 

man comes to me and does not hate his father and mother and 
wife and children and brothers and sisters, he cannot be my 
disciple." 77 Both of you [Ambrose and Protoctetus] remember 
the saying: "If any man comes to me and does not hate his own 
soul," in addition to those already mentioned, "he cannot be 
my disciple. 5 ' 78 So hate your own soul that by your hatred you 
may preserve it to everlasting life. "For," he says, "he who hates 
his own soul in this world shall preserve it to everlasting life. 3 ' 79 
Accordingly, hate your soul for the sake of everlasting life in 
the sure conviction that it is a good and valuable hatred which 
Jesus teaches us to have. Just as we have to hate our soul to pre- 
serve it to everlasting life, so also must you [Ambrose], who 
have wife and children and brothers and sisters, hate them. 
You will thus help those you hate, since by the very act of hating 
them you become a friend to God and receive the freedom to 
benefit them. 

38. But at the same time remember him who prays in spirit 
for the children left by the martyrs for the sake of their love for 
God, and said: "Redeem the children of those condemned to 
death." 80 Only realize that it is not the children of the flesh who 
are children of God, 81 and that, just as it is said to the des- 
cendants of Abraham: "I know that you are Abraham's seed" 82 
and "if you were Abraham's children, you would do the works 
of Abraham," 83 so also it will be said to your children: I know 
that you are Ambrose's seed, and if you are Ambrose's children 
you will do the works of Ambrose. No doubt they will do them, 
for you will help them more after dying a martyr's death than 
if you had remained with them. For then you will love them 
with greater knowledge and pray for them with deeper under- 
standing if you find that they are your children and not merely 
your seed. Take now upon your lips the words: "He who loves 
son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me/ 5 and "He 
who finds his soul shall lose it, and he who loses his soul for my 
sake shall find it." 84 

39. By your readiness for martyrdom give place to the Spirit 
of your Father who speaks in those delivered up for the sake of 
religion. 85 If you know yourselves to be hated and reviled and 
77 Luke 14:26. 78 Luke 14:26 79 John 12:25. 

so p s . 79 (78): n. si R om . 9: 8. 82 J hn 8:37. 

83 John 8:39, similarly quoted in Horn, in E&ch., IV. , 8, where Origen 
attacks fools who say, "In the future each one of us will be able by our 
prayers to deliver from Gehenna anyone he likes," forcettine that a 
martyr only benefits me if I live rightly. 

84 Matt 10:37, 39. ss Matt. 10:20. 



EXHORTATION TO MARTYRDOM 42! 

thought to be blasphemers, then take to heart the words: "On 
this account the world hates you, because you are not of this 
world. If you were of this world, the world would love its 
own." 86 Already you have endured many reproaches and many 
dangers for Christ's sake since the time when you first believed. 
Advance by enduring to the end. For "he who endures to the 
end shall be saved. 5 ' 87 Know that according to Peter you will 
rejoice "though now for a short time, if need be, you are grieved 
by various temptations, that the testing of your faith, which is 
far more valuable than perishable gold which is tried by fire, 
may be found to deserve praise and glory and honour at the 
revelation of Jesus Christ." 88 Understand the word "grieved" 
to mean suffering physical pain, as is clear from the words "In 
grief shalt thou bear children." 89 For a woman giving birth to 
a child suffers no grief whatever, but physical pain. 

To Christ's disciples this word was helpful: "Love not the 
world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man loves 
the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in 
the world, the lust of the flesh and the lust of the eyes and the 
pride of life, is not of the Father but is of the world. And the 
world passes away and its lust." 90 Accordingly, do not love that 
which is transitory, but by doing God's will become worthy to 
be one with Son and Father and Holy Spirit, in accordance 
with the Saviour's prayer "that they also may be one in us as I 
and thou are one." 91 How many days of life can one gain by 
loving the world or the things that are in the world, while losing 
or destroying one's own soul and carrying a conscience bur- 
dened by a heavy load and weighed down by the guilt of 
apostasy? Let us each remember how often we have been in 
danger of dying in the ordinary way, and reckon that we may 
have been preserved in order that baptized in our own blood 
and washed from all sin we may dwell beside the heavenly altar 
with our comrades in the fight. 92 

40. If, however, any man is led to yield by a great love for 
this life or by lack of courage in face of the torments or by the 
seemingly persuasive arguments used by those who would per- 
suade us to choose the evil course, and denies the one God and 
his Christ, and confesses the daemons or "fortunes," 93 let him 
realize that when he prepares "a table for the daemon," and 
"fills the cup to fortune," he "forsakes the Lord and forgets his 

86 John 15:19. 87 Matt. 10:22; 24:13. 88 I Pet 1:6-7. 

89 Gen. 3:16. 90 I John 2:15-17. 91 John 17:21-22. 

*2 Rev. 6:9. 93 Cf. Chapter 7, above. 



422 ORIGEN 

holy mountain." These charges against him are set forth by 
Isaiah as follows: "Ye who forsake me and forget my holy 
mountain and prepare a table for the daemon and fill the cup 
to fortune, I will deliver you to the sword, ye shall all fall slain, 
For I called you and ye did not listen. I spoke and ye disobeyed 
and did evil before me and chose that which was not my will. 
Therefore thus saith the Lord: Behold my servants shall eat, 
but ye shall be hungry. Behold, my servants shall drink, but ye 
shall be thirsty. Behold, my servants shall be glad, but ye shall 
be ashamed. Behold, my servants shall rejoice with gladness, 
but ye shall cry out for the pain of your heart and shall groan 
for the distress of your spirit. For ye shall abandon my name for 
the satisfaction of my elect, but you shall the Lord destroy. 9 ' 94 
Moreover, if we understand what the table of the Lord is, and 
desire to partake of it, let us know this: "You cannot partake of 
the table of the Lord and the table of daemons." 95 Further, 
if we understand the meaning of the words "I shall not hence- 
forth drink of the fruit of this vine until that day when I 
drink it new in the kingdom of heaven, 3396 and if we wish to 
be found in the company of those who drink with Jesus, let us 
pay heed to this: "You cannot drink the cup of the Lord and 
the cup of daemons. 3397 

John the son of thunder says: "He who denies the Father and 
the Son: everyone who denies the Son has not the Father. He 
who confesses the Son has the Father also." 98 Who that under- 
stands this truth will not be afraid to say that he is not a Chris- 
tian, and thus deny the Son, since by his denial he will not have 
the Father? And who would not be led to confess himself a 
Christian by words and deeds, so that he might have the Father 
also? For those who make such a confession have the Father. 

41. If we have passed from death to life 99 by our transition 
from unbelief to faith, let us not be surprised if the world hates 
us. 1 For no one who has not passed from death to life, but re- 
mains in death, can love those who have passed from the dark 
house of death, so to speak, to the buildings full of the light of 
life built of living stones. 2 For us Jesus laid down his life. 3 Let us 
therefore lay down ours, I will not say for his sake but for our 
own, and I think also for those who will be edified by our 

94 Isa. 65:11-15. 95 I Cor. 10:21. 

96 Matt. 26:29. 97 I Cor, 10:21. 

98 I John 2:22-23 (Mark 3:17). " John 5:24; I John 3:14. 

ijohn 15:18. * John 8:12; I Pet. 2:5; Eph. 2:20-22. 

3 I John 3:16. 



EXHORTATION TO MARTYRDOM 423 

martyrdom. For us Christians the time of boasting is at hand 
For the apostle says: "Not only so, but we also make our boast 
in our tribulations, knowing that tribulation effects patience 
and patience experience, and experience hope; and hope is not 
put to shame; only let the love of God be poured out in our 
hearts by the Holy Spirit."* While Paul may say, "If after the 
manner of men I have fought with wild beasts at Ephesus,"5 
we could say, "If after the manner of men I have been executed 
in Germany." 6 

42. If "as the sufferings of Christ overflow, so through Christ 
consolation also overflows,"? let us gladly accept the sufferings 
of Christ so that they overflow in us, if at least we desire the 
abundant consolation which is received by all who mourn, 
though probably not in equal measure. For if the consolation 
were equal for all, Scripture would not have said: "As the suffer- 
ings of Christ overflow to us, so also our consolation overflows." 
Those who share in sufferings will also share in consolation in 
proportion to the sufferings that they share with Christ. This 
you learn from him who with full conviction said: "For we 
know that as you are partakers of the sufferings so also do you 
share in the consolation." 9 

God says by the prophet: "In an acceptable time have I 
heard thee and in a day of salvation have I succoured thee." 10 
What other time is so acceptable as that when, for our faith 
towards God in Christ, we are brought in procession under 
arrest in the world, and are led away to die, though the triumph 
is ours rather than theirs? For the martyrs in Christ put off with 
him the principalities and powers and join in his triumph 11 ; as 
they share in his sufferings, so also they share in the benefits of 
his sufferings. These include triumphing over principalities and 
powers which shortly you shall see vanquished and put to shame. 
What is the day of salvation so much as the day we are delivered 
from this life? But I beseech you, "Give no offence in any- 
thing" 12 lest through you the presbyterate or the diaconate be 
found at fault, "but in all things commend yourselves as the 
ministers of God." "In much patience," say, "And now what is 
my patience? Is it not the Lord?" 13 "In tribulations" be per- 
suaded that "many are the tribulations of the righteous." 14 "In 

* Rom. 5:3-5. s I Cor. 15:32. 

<s The emperor Maximin was in Germany at the time of writing. 

7 II Cor. 1:5. s Matt. 5:4. 9 H Cor. 1:7. 

10 Isa. 49:8; II Cor. 6:2. " Col. 2:15. 12 II Cor. 6:3 ff. 

IB Ps. 39(38)17 14 p s . 34 (33^:19. 



ORIGEN 

necessities' 3 let us ask for blessedness as a necessity for us. "In 
afflictions" let us unfailingly walk upon the strait and narrow 
way that we may attain to life. 15 If it is needful, let us also com- 
mend ourselves "by scourgings, by imprisonments, by riots, by 
labours, by watchings, and by fastings." For behold the Lord is 
here with his reward in his hand to render to each man 
according to his works. 16 

43. Let us now show that we have desired "knowledge" for 
the sake of the works befitting that knowledge. Let there be 
manifested in us complete "purity" from all defilement by any 
sort of sin. As sons of a longsufFering God and brethren of a long- 
suffering Christ let us be "patient" in all misfortunes. "For a 
longsufFering man has much to think about; the pusillanimous 
man is a prodigious fool." 17 If one must commend oneself "by 
the armour of righteousness on the right hand and on the left," 
and if we have commended ourselves by "honour" and have not 
been made proud by it, let us now even endure "dishonour." 
And if we have behaved worthily to deserve a "good reputation" 
and if we have enjoyed such a reputation, let us now tolerate 
the "evil report" of the impious. Moreover, if as "true" men 
we have been admired by lovers of truth, now let us laugh if 
someone says we are "mistaken." Because we have been 
delivered from many dangers many have said that we were 
"known of God." But now let anyone say that we are "un- 
known," when probably we are in fact even better known. 
Bearing whatever comes, we are afflicted but not put to death, 
and while rejoicing are likened to men who are grieved. 18 

44. Paul somewhere says to those who have endured suffering 
at the first, exhorting them to be patient under the second 
attack of danger for the sake of the word, as they were under the 
first: "Remember the former days when after you were en- 
lightened, you endured a severe struggle of suffering, being 
partly an object of public ridicule and affliction, and partly 
being associated with those who were being thus treated. More- 
over, you sympathized with those in prison, and gladly accepted 
the plunder of your property, knowing that you have a better 
possession that lasts. Do not, then, abandon your confidence 
which carries with it great rewards. For you need patience." 19 

is Matt. 7:14. 

is Isa. 40:10; 62:11; Ps. 62 (6i):ia; Rom. 2:6; Rev. 2:23; 22:12. 
i? Prov. 14:29. 

is The language of this, as of the preceding chapter, is drawn from II Cor. 
6:3-10. is Heb. 10:32-6. 



EXHORTATION TO MARTYRDOM 425 

Let us also now endure a severe struggle of suffering, being an 
object of public ridicule and affliction, and accepting gladly the 
plunder of our property. For we are convinced that we have a 
better possession, not earthly nor even material, but invisible 
and immaterial. For we make our aim not the things that are 
seen, seeing that they are transitory while the immaterial things 
are eternal. 20 

45. Some do not consider the truth concerning daemons, 
namely that if they are to remain in this gross air near the earth 
they need food from sacrifices and so keep where there is always 
smoke and blood and incense. 21 Accordingly, they hold it a light 
and indifferent matter to offer sacrifice. To this we would say 
that if those who provide food for thieves and murderers and 
barbarian enemies of the great king are punished as offenders 
against society, how much more would they be most justly 
punished who by sacrificing to the ministers of evil give them 
food which maintains them in the region near the earth; and 
particularly so if they have learnt that "he who sacrifices to 
other gods except to the Lord alone shall be destroyed 3 '22 an( j 
nevertheless sacrifice to those responsible for the evils upon 
earth. Indeed, I think that because of the misdeeds committed 
by the daemons who work against mankind those who feed 
them with sacrifices are no less responsible than the daemons 
who commit wicked deeds. For both the daemons and those 
who keep them on earth have injured men in like degree, since 
without the smoke and sacrifices and the food thought to be 
suited to their bodies the daemons would not be able to subsist. 

46. Some, again, think that names are given by an arbitrary 
convention and have no natural attachment to the things they 
describe. 23 They think it is of no consequence if a man says, "I 
worship the supreme God whether his name is Zeus or Zen," 
or if he says, "I honour and venerate the sun or Apollo, and 
the moon or Artemis, and the spirit in the earth or Demeter, 

20 II Cor. 4:18. 

21 For sacrifices as the food of daemons, c my note on Origen, contra Celsum, 
II 1 3 28; for the view that they cause earthly disasters such as famine, 
drought, flood, and earthquake, cf. contra Celswm,, VIII, 31. 

22 Ex. 22:20 (19). 

23 The arguments of this chapter recur in contra CeLsum, I 3 24; V, 45. 
Aristotle held that names were given by an arbitrary human determi- 
nation. The Stoics held that names were given "by nature," "the first 
utterances (of the first men) being imitations of the things described and 
so becoming their names." Probably the view combated by Origen \v 
advanced by gnostic sects who wished to provide a rational justificati 
of yielding to authority in time of persecution. 



was 
ion 



426 ORIGEN 

and whatever else the Greek wise men say," To them we must 
reply that the question of names is very profound and obscure. 
He who understands it will see that, if names were a matter 
of mere human convention, those beings we call daemons, or 
other powers unperceived by us, would not obey those who, while 
thinking of them in their minds, use their names as if they 
had been given by an arbitrary convention. But in fact certain 
sounds and syllables which are pronounced with or without 
aspiration, with either long or short vowel-sound, control those 
who are invoked probably by some natural power imperceptible 
to us. If this is so, and names are not a matter of arbitrary 
convention, the supreme God ought not to be invoked by any 
name except those used by Moses and the prophets and our 
Saviour and Lord himself, such as Sabaoth, Adonai, Shaddai, 
and again, God of Abraham, God of Isaac, and God of Jacob. 
"For this," he says "is an everlasting name and a memorial to 
generations of generations. 3 ' 24 It is not surprising if the daemons 
attribute their own names to the supreme God so that they may 
be worshipped as the supreme God. But this is foreign to our 
Moses and the prophets and to Christ, the law's fulfilment, and 
to his apostles. We have felt it necessary to say this lest anyone 
should trick us in argument or in even the least degree defile 
our reasoning. These considerations must be carefully weighed 
if we are to give our opponents no opportunity for a subtle 
attack. 

47. Furthermore, a man may still love life even though he 
has attained a conviction that the essence of the rational soul 
has a certain kinship with God. 25 For both are intellectual and 
invisible and, as decisive reasoning proves, incorporeal. But 
why did our Maker implant in us a longing for religious com- 
munion with him, so that even in the erring he preserves certain 
traces of the divine will, 26 if it were not possible and attainable 
for the rational beings to apprehend that which they long for 
by nature? And it is clear that just as each of our members has 
some ability for which it is naturally fitted, the eyes to see visible 
things, and the ears to hear sounds,, so the mind is for intelligible 
things and God who transcends them. Why, then, do we hesitate 
and doubt to put off the corruptible body that hinders us and 
weighs down the soul, the "earthly tabernacle" that fills the 

^ EX. 3:15. 

** This is Platonic language; cf. Celsus in Origen, contra Celsum, I, 8, with 

my note thereon. 
26 Origen frequently denies total depravity: cf. contra Celstm, II, n. 



EXHORTATION TO MARTYRDOM 427 

mind full of many anxieties, 2 ? and to be set free from our ties 
and to retire from the stormy waves that are the lot of flesh and 
blood? For then we may enjoy with Christ Jesus the rest which 
accompanies blessedness, and contemplate him in his wholeness, 
the living Word. Fed by him and comprehending the manifold 
wisdom in him, and being stamped with the very truth, we may 
have our minds enlightened by the true and unfailing light of 
knowledge and have the vision of those things which by that 
light can be seen, by eyes illuminated by the commandment of 
the Lord. 2 8 

48. Long ago we heard Jesus 3 words, and it is now in the dis- 
tant past that we were made disciples of the gospel, and all 
built for ourselves a house. Where we have built, whether we 
have dug deep and founded it on the rock, or on the sand with- 
out any foundation, the present struggle will show. For a storm 
is imminent bringing rain and rivers and winds, or, as Luke 
says, flood-water. 2 9 When these break upon the house, either 
they will not be able to shake it, and the house will not fall for 
the reason that it is built upon the rock, on Christ, or they will 
show up the weakness of the building which will fall under the 
blows of the tempest. May this never happen to our buildings. 
A fall by apostasy is very great, or, as Luke says, great is the 
ruin of the building that lacks any foundation. Therefore let us 
pray that we may be like the wise man who built his house on 
the rock. Against such a house there may come the rain from 
the spiritual powers of evil in the heavens or the rivers from 
the world-rulers of this darkness 30 or the flood- water of the 
spirits beneath the earth. Let them break themselves on our 
building founded on the rock, not only that the house may not 
fall but that it may not be shaken in the least, and that it may 
be rather they than we who suffer from their onslaught. Let 
each one of us say as he strikes the hostile powers, "So I fight, 
but not as a man beating the air." 31 

49. Moreover, since "the sower went forth to sow," let us 
show that our soul has received his seed, not as those by the way- 
side, nor as those on rocky ground, nor as the thorns, but as the 
good soil. Because the word of Jesus did not come by the way- 
side or among thorns, so much as in us lies let us make our 
boast in the Lord. For we have understood the message. Where- 
fore the evil one has not snatched away the seed sown in our 

27 Wisdom of Solomon 9:15. 28 Cf. Ps. 19 (i8):8; Eph. 1:18. 

29 Matt. 7:24-27; Luke 6:48-49. 30 Eph. 6:12. 
31 1 Cor. 9:26. 



428 ORIGEN 

heart. That the seed was not sown among thorns, many will 
bear witness to us, seeing that neither the care of this world nor 
the deceitfulness of riches nor the pleasures of this life have been 
able to hinder the word of God in our souls. It remains for men 
to doubt whether God's word, so far as we have received it, has 
fallen in rocky ground or on good soil. For tribulation and per- 
secution have arisen on account of the word, and there has 
come upon us a time of great temptation, when he whose seed 
has been sown in rocky ground, and those who have not dug 
deep and received Jesus into the depths of their soul, will be 
shown up. But he who has understood the word bears fruit 
and holds the word to the end, producing a hundredfold in 
patience. 32 

We hear how Scripture speaks of those who stumble in time 
of tribulation or persecution after they have seemed to receive 
the holy teaching with joy. They stumble because they have no 
root but believe only for a time. According to Matthew the text 
reads: "He who was sown on rocky ground, this is he who hears 
the word and at once receives it joyfully. But he has not root in 
himself and endures only for a time. When tribulation or per- 
secution arise because of the word, immediately he stumbles." 33 
According to Mark: "These are they who are sown on stony 
ground, who when they hear the word at once receive it joy- 
fully; and they have no root in themselves, but endure only for 
a time. When tribulation and persecution arise because of the 
word, immediately they stumble." 34 According to Luke: "But 
those on the rock are they who when they hear receive the word 
joyfully; and these have no root, who for a time believe and in 
time of temptation fall away." 35 But concerning those who 
bring forth good fruit Scripture teaches as follows: "He who is 
sown on the good soil, this is he who hears the word and under- 
stands it, who bears fruit and produces it, some a hundredfold, 
some sixty, some thirty." 36 Or, "And those are they who were 
sown upon the good soil, who hear the word and accept it and 
bear fruit, thirtyfold, and sixtyfold, and a hundredfold." 37 Or, 
"But that in the good soil, these are they who in an honest and 
good heart hear the word and hold it fast, and bring forth fruit 
with patience." 38 

Since then according to the apostle "you are God's planting, 
God's building," 39 planted in the good soil, built on the rock, as 

32 See Matt. 13:3 ff.; Mark 4:4 ff; Luke 8:5 ff. 33 Matt. 13:20-21. 

34 Mark 4:16-17. 35 Luke 8:13. 36 Matt. 13:23. 

37 Mark 4:20. 38 Luke 8:15. 39 I Cor. 3:9. 



EXHORTATION TO MARTYRDOM 429 

God's building let us stand unshaken before the storm and as 
God's planting let us not think of the evil one, nor of tribulation 
or persecution which are arising because of the word, nor of the 
care of this world or the deceitfulness of evil or the pleasures of 
this life. Let us despise all these, and take the spirit of wisdom 
which is free from anxiety 40 and hasten to obtain the wealth 
that has no deceitfulness, and let us go to the pleasures, so to 
speak, of "the paradise of luxury." 41 In every distress let us 
reckon that "our present light affliction which lasts but a 
moment results in an eternal weight of glory beyond all esti- 
mation, if we fix our eyes not on the things that are seen but on 
those that are unseen." 42 

50. Let us also be aware that the word concerning Abel who 
was killed by the wicked murderer Gain applies to all whose 
blood is unjustly shed. "For the words "The cry of thy brother's 
blood calls to me from the ground" 43 we may consider to be 
applicable also to each of the martyrs; the cry of their blood 
calls to God from the ground. 

Perhaps also just as we have been redeemed by the precious 
blood of Jesus, 44 Jesus who has received the name that is above 
every name, 45 so also some are redeemed by the precious blood 
of the martyrs. And they themselves are exalted more than they 
would have been if they had been just men but had not been 
martyrs. For it is with reason that a martyr's death is called 
"exaltation," as is clear from the saying: "If I be exalted from 
the earth, I will draw all men to me." 46 Let us also, therefore, 
glorify God exalting him by our own death, since by his death the 
martyr will glorify God; we learn this from the words of John: 
"This he said signifying by what death he would glorify God." 47 

51. This exhortation which I have written for you is the best 
of which I am capable. I pray it may be of assistance to you in 
the present conflict. If, expecially now when you are worthy to 
see more of the mysteries of God, you can apprehend greater 
and richer truths, more valuable for the present crisis, so that 
you look down on my poor efforts as childish and simple, I my- 
self hope that this will be your experience. What is important 
for you is that you should be helped not by me but from any 
source whatever. God grant that you may be helped by words 
more divine and full of understanding, surpassing all human 
nature, and by the wisdom of God. 

40 Wisdom of Solomon 7:23. 41 Gen. 3:23. 

42 II Cor. 4:17-18. Gen. 4:10. 44 I p e t. 1:19. 

45 Phil. 2:9. 46 John 12:32. 47 John 21:19. 



Dialogue with Heraclides 

INTRODUCTION 

EARLY IN AUGUST IQ4I THE BRITISH ARMY HAD 
some caves cleared of rubbish at Tura, south of Cairo, to 
make a store for ammunition. This led the discovery of a 
small library of works, written on papyrus, by Origen and 
Didymus the blind. The papyri appear to have been written 
late in the sixth century. Both Origen and Didymus were con- 
demned as heretical at Justinian's Council of Constantinople in 
553, and it is very possible that the cache was made in conse- 
quence of the resulting proscription. Of the works of Origen the 
most important is the only one so far published, the Dialogue 
with Heraclides. The present translation is made from the 
splendid edition produced by the French papyrologist M. Jean 
Scherer. Nothing was previously known of the existence of this 
work. No work of Origen is more obviously authentic. 

The Dialogue consists of the minutes of a discussion held at a 
synod of bishops summoned to discuss the opinions of a certain 
Bishop Heraclides whose orthodoxy has been called in question. 
No indication is given of the place and date, and it seems that 
some preliminary matter is missing at the beginning. Perhaps 
other parts of the discussion did not interest the sixth-century 
copyist so much as the part in which Origen played the leading 
role. 

Origen frequently took part in theological disputations. He 

disputed with Jewish Rabbis on a number of occasions. 1 Euse- 

bius of Caesarea had before him the minutes of a discussion, 

held some time between 238 and 244 with Beryllus, Bishop of 

Bostra in Arabia, whose monotheistic theology led him to deny 

the pre-existence and independent kypostasis of the Son. Origen 

i Cf. Origen, contra Celsum, I, 45, with my note thereon. 

430 



DIALOGUE WITH HERACLIBES 431 

won over Beryllus to his own more pluralistic doctrine of God. 2 
Eusebius also mentions another "synod of no small dimensions" 
in Arabia to which Origen was invited to debate with some who 
taught that the soul dies with the body at death and only comes 
to life with the body at the resurrection. 3 Similar questions are 
ventilated in the Dialogue with Heraclides, but it would be risky 
to identify our Dialogue with the debate of the Arabian synod. 
This Arabian synod may with more probability be identified, if 
at all, with Origen's discussion with "the other Heraclides and 
Celer his predecessor" mentioned in the Dialogue with Heraclides 
(below, p. 444). Origen says that at this earlier debate contro- 
versy had become so acute that he had almost withdrawn 
altogether. But his opponent had eventually come round to his 
view. 

Origen's fame brought him frequent invitations to go and 
explain to other churches the finer points of theology. On one 
occasion it led to serious trouble. About A.D. 229 he was invited 
to Greece to dispute with a certain Valentinian named Candi- 
dus; it was when he was on his way there that he was ordained 
presbyter at Caesarea in Palestine. 4 Candidus defended the 
Valentinian doctrine that salvation and damnation are deter- 
mined by nature, not by will; and to prove his point, he observed 
that the devil was wholly wicked and could not be saved. Origen 
repliecUhat if the devil fell by his own free will, it must at least 
be possible for him to choose right and to be saved. 5 A garbled 
version of the debate was published by Gandidus. The imputa- 
tion to Origen of the doctrine that the devil will be saved caused 
no little consternation at Alexandian, where Bishop Demetrius 
was already vexed by his ordination at Gaesarea. He evidently 
wrote an angry letter to Palestine. The Palestinian bishops 
hastily wrote to Origen at Athens telling him of the general 
consternation and asking for an authentic copy of the dispute 
with Candidus. Formal censure was passed upon Origen at 
Alexandria, though the bishops of Palestine, Arabia, Phoenicia, 

2 Eusebius, H.E^ VI, 33. The minutes were also known to Jerome, (de Vir. 
Inl., 60). They also contained some discussion of the soul of Christ, but to 
what purpose is not clear (Socrates, H*E.> III, 7:6). 

3 Eusebius, H.K, VI, 37. 

* Eusebius, #.., VI, 8:4; 23:4; Jerome, de Vir. Inl., 54; Pamphilus, ap. 

Photius, BibL, 118. See above, p. 175. 
5 Origen elsewhere expresses this view: cf. de Princ^ III, 6:5; I, 6:3; Comm. 

in Ep. ad Titum (V, 290, Lommatzsch), Rufinus has reshaped Cotnm, in. 

Ep~ ad Rom.> VIII, 8 (VII, 247, Lommatzsch), to give explicit denial of 

the possibility. 



43 2 ORIGEN 

and Achaea (the scene of his recent visit) significantly refused 
to agree to the sentence. 6 We have substantial fragments of an im- 
passioned letter written by Origen to his friends at Alexandria, 
in which with crushing irony (similar in tone to that used about 
Demetrius at the beginning of the sixth book of the Commentary 
on St. John) he observes that he would not revile the devil any 
more than the bishops who have condemned him. 7 Such un- 
fortunate experiences explain the caution shown by Origen in 
the conference with Heraclides. 

It is not impossible that the bishop Demetrius mentioned 
in the Dialogue with Heraclides is none other than the Bishop of 
Alexandria; if so, the Dialogue must be earlier than A.D. 230. It 
is also possible that "the beloved Dionysius" is the future Bishop 
of Alexandria. But this is not really probable. The Maximus 
of the Dialogue may be the successor of Beryllus of Bostra, who 
took part in the Origenist synod at Antioch at 268 which con- 
demned Paul of Samosata. If so, the Dialogue must be placed 
later in Origen's career, and occurred at a synod in Arabia. 
The later date has received more support, and seems to be more 
likely. 

The Dialogue with Heraclides is concerned with three main sub- 
jects. The chief concern of the synod was the orthodoxy of 
Bishop Heraclides, and the synod is evidently held in his church. 
The bishops did not, perhaps, trust their own powers to deal 
with such advanced theological questions, and called in Origen 

6 Jerome, Ep., 33:5. 

7 Sources: Rufinus, de Adulterations librorum Origenis (P.G., XVII, 624-626), 
with the corrections of Jerome, Apol. adv. Rufin., II, 18-19. Photius (BibL, 
1 1 8) summarizes the account of Demetrius* condemnation of Origen 
given by Pamphilus' Apology. The tendency of Pamphilus is to play down 
doctrinal issues, and to make it appear that Demetrius' ground of com- 
plaint was the irregularity of Origen's ordination (a) as having been done 
in Palestine without his consent, (b) as being contrary to church law, 
prohibiting the ordination of the mutilated. The same tendency is clear 
in Eusebius (H.E., VI, 8:4-5), wno sa ys that Demetrius was envious of 
Origen's fame and so objected to the technical validity of his ordination. 
Jerome, writing before he joined the anti-Origenist camp, similarly says 
that the censure passed upon Origen at Rome was "not on account of any 
doctrinal innovation not for any heresy, as rabid dogs are now alleging 
against him, but because they could not endure the magnificence of his 
eloquence and knowledge" (Ep. 33:5). The majority of modern writers 
have accepted the thesis of Pamphilus and Eusebius that Demetrius' con- 
demnation was based not on a doctrinal issue but on mere matters of 
church discipline. The evidence of Rufinus and Jerome's Apology seems 
clearly to tell against it. Cf. C. G. Richardson, "The Condemnation of 
Origen/' in Church History, VI (1937), pp. 50-64. 



DIALOGUE WITH HERACLIDES 433 

to help them. Just as at Antioch in A.D. 268 the presbyter Mal- 
chion is asked to conduct the cross-examination of Paul of 
Samosata, so Origen questions Heraclides; it is he who deter- 
mines the form in which the questions are put, so that Heraclides 
finds himself arguing on Origen's ground. We cannot tell how 
he would have expressed his theology if he had been left to 
himself. The laity are present in the church, as also they were 
at Antioch in 268. 

Heraclides begins by assuring the synod that he too is ready 
to agree to the Logos theology of the Fourth Gospel (John 
1:13). It seems that in the immediately preceding discussion, 
not copied by the scribe, this text has been quoted against him. 
He follows this with a credal statement. It is now time for 
Origen to begin his cross-examination, which is designed to 
elicit from Heraclides a confession of the pre-existence and 
independent existence of the Son. 

The theology of the Greek apologists is marked by a strong 
emphasis on the independent hypostasis of the Son in relation to 
the Father. Justin Martyr had spoken of the Son as "another 
God." From the last decade of the second century the Logos 
theology of the apologists met with strong opposition from those 
who felt that it was incompatible with monotheism. Two courses 
were open to the critics. Either they could say that Jesus was 
God without qualification; the person of Christ is the person of 
God; if Christ suffered, then God suffered. Or they could say 
that Jesus was a man like other men, but indwelt by the spirit of 
God to a unique degree. The former view was later known in the 
East as Sabellianism, in the West as Patripassianism. The latter 
view is usually called Adoptianism by modern writers (it has 
no ancient equivalent title). Origen's theology, as set forth to 
Heraclides, is intended to steer a middle course between Scylla 
and Charybdis. The one party, he says, abolishes the distinct 
personality of the Son in relation to the Father, and thus vir- 
tually does away with the Father as well, since if the Son is not 
distinct the Father cannot be Father. The other party denies 
the deity of Christ. Only the doctrine that the Logos is both 
separate from and one with the Father avoids heresy. It is clear 
that for Origen the independence of the Son is theologically 
prior to his oneness with the Father. He begins by thinking of 
two Gods and then tries to explain how they are one, never 
vice versa. In other writings he does not shrink any more than 
in the Dialogue with Heraclides from affirming that there are 
two Gods, though as here he usually adds some qualifying 

A.C. 28 



434 ORIGEN 

phrase. 8 He pursues Heraclides with politely relentless question- 
ing until he has to agree, despite all his reluctance, that there 
are two Gods. Heraclides at once adds: "The power is one." 9 
And even Origen deems it wise to take the edge off his sharply 
ditheistic statement so scandalous to the brethren. 

The controversy in Heraclides' church seems to have centred 
on the prayers used at the eucharist. Origen appeals to the 
universal usage of the Church to make offering to God through 
Jesus Christ. This is no double offering to two Gods, but "to 
God through God." The theology of prayer here implied is set 
forth at greater length in Origen's treatise on Prayer. 10 Here 
he insists that the church of Heraclides must show its unity 
with all other churches by adhering to the customary, agreed 
formulas of prayer. If it fails to do so, "it will give rise to 
fresh disputes." 11 

In the second section of the Dialogue Origen turns to deal 
with an objection raised, it appears, at some earlier stage of the 
conference by Maximus, concerning the Christological implica- 
tions of the Logos doctrine. If Jesus Christ is God in his very 
essence (ouo-ttoScDs), what is to be said of the reality of his body 
and in particular of his death? Could the body of God become 
a corpse? 12 Origen states his beliefs: If the body of Christ did 
not truly die and rise again, it cuts at the root of the Church's 
faith in the resurrection of believers. 13 Maximus is asked if he is 
satisfied (the text is again corrupt, but this seems to be required 
by the context). Maximus' reply shows a fear, significant for the 
atmosphere of the synod, lest the fact of his raising a question 
may impugn his reputation for orthodoxy. His question is only 

a Gf. Origen, de Orations, XV, i; contra Celsum, V, 39; VI, 61; VII, 57; 

Comm. In Ev. Jo., II, 2; X, 37 (21). 
9 The language is reminiscent of Hippolytus who uses the same phrase to 

qualify ditheistic statements; contra Noetum, 7, n (Schwartz, pp. 10, 24; 

*3> 3)- 

1 See contra Celsum, V, 4-5; VIII, 26; and Prof. Oulton's notes on de 
Oratione, XV-XVI (above, pp. 346-48). It is noteworthy that Paul of 
Samosata disapproved of prayer to Christ (Eusebius, H.E., VII, 30:10). 
E. G. Ratdiff (J.T.S., XXX (1929), pp. 23-32, cited by A. D. Nock, 
Amer. Journ. Arch., LV (1951), 284) argues that originally the East Syrian 
eucharistic liturgy was addressed to Christ, not the Father. 

11 This is the general sense of a passage which is badly corrupted and was 
unintelligible to the original scribe. 

12 The connection of thought at this point in the Dialogue is not immediately 
obvious; the view expressed above seems to be the simplest interpretation. 

13 Similar insistence on the reality of Christ's material body as necessary for 
human salvation in Origen's Commentary on Galatians, cited in Pamphilus' 
Apology (XXIV, 365 ff., Lommatzsch). 



DIALOGUE WITH HERACLIDES 435 

a request for information: "I need the help of my brother and 
instruction on this point. 53 The difficulty about Origen's view, 
as he sees it, is this. Jesus said: "Father, into thy hands I com- 
mend my spirit." The divine nature returned to the Father. 
What power, then, was it which opened the tomb and raised 
up the flesh? 

Origen replies by appealing to the Pauline trichotomy of 
I Thess. 5:23: "May God sanctify your spirit and your soul and 
your body." The spirit Jesus committed to the Father was not 
the Holy Spirit, but his human spirit. For the Logos took to 
himself the entire constitution of man, body, soul, and spirit. 
"The whole man would not have been saved unless he had 
taken upon him the whole man" a sentence which anticipates 
the standard anti-Apollinarian argument of the fourth century. 
Thus Christ's human body, soul, and spirit were separated at 
the Passion. The spirit was temporarily entrusted to the Father, 
the soul descended to Hades, the body remained in the tomb. 
They were reunited shortly after the Resurrection, though not 
at the actual moment of the Resurrection as is proved by the 
words to Mary Magdalene (John 20:17): "Touch me not, for 
I am not yet ascended to the Father." He did not wish her to 
touch^him before he had reclaimed the spirit left in temporary 
deposit with the Father. He appeared to his disciples after all 
three elements of his humanity had been reunited. 

Origen has now said his say on all the questions of doctrine 
which had been the immediate subject of controversy in 
Heraclides' church. After a homily on the equal importance of 
orthodoxy and right conduct, he invites questions on any other 
points of theology. 

The question is put by Dionysius: "Is the soul the blood?" 
From the text in Lev. 17:11, "The soul of all flesh is blood," 
supported by Deut. 12:23, some were evidently drawing the 
conclusion that the soul was material, and was corrupted with 
the body in the grave. 14 With such explicit texts of Scripture to 
explain away Origen finds himself extremely embarrassed. He 
is most reluctant to speak, especially with uninstructed laymen 
present, lest he should be casting his pearls before swine. His 
lengthy reply (so long that some of his audience cease to pay 
attention in their impatience) is that Scripture often uses 

14 Similar beliefs were refuted by Origen at the Arabian synod mentioned 
by Eusebius (H.E., VI, 37) though we are not told that the Leviticus text 
played any part in the discussion there. For a comparable discussion, cf. 
Tertullian, de Anima> 53. 



436 ORIGEN 

physical terms to describe spiritual realities. Therefore, 
"blood" in the Leviticus text cannot possibly mean blood. A 
certain Bishop Philip has been absent and so has missed Origen's 
discourse. As he enters the synod. Bishop Demetrius summarizes 
the debate for him: "Brother Origen teaches that the soul is 
immortal. 35 The implication, which is not lost on Origen, is that 
he is suspected of being more a Platonist than a truly Biblical 
theologian in his doctrine of the soul. He answers that his appeal 
is not to the Greeks but to the Scripture. It is, however, difficult 
to see that his involved discussion of the various meanings of 
"death" is of any value in answering the point. The argument 
here shows him at his weakest, content merely to assert, and to 
conceal his embarrassment with verbiage. 

Origen ends with a final peroration, similar in tone to the 
Exhortation to Martyrdom. 

The text of the Dialogue with Heraclides is edited with a 
French translation, introduction, and notes by Jean Scherer: 
Entretien d'Origene avec Heraclide et les evlques, ses collegues sur le 
Pere, le Fils, et VAme (Cairo, 1949). 

For discussions of the text consult the following: B. Capelle, 
"L'Entretien d'Origene avec Heraclide.," in The Journal of 
Ecclesiastical History, II (1951), pp. 143-157; H. C. Puech, "Les 
nouveaux ecrits d'Origene et de Didyme decouverts aToura," in 
Revue d'histoire et de philosophie religieuses, XXXI (1951), pp. 293- 
329; J. Crehan, "The Dialektos of Origen and John 20:17.," in 
Theological Studies, XI (1950), pp. 368-372; B. Capelle, "Origene 
et 1' oblation a faire au Pere par le Fils, d'apres le papyrus de 
Toura," in Revue d 'histoire Ecdesiastique XLVII (1952), pp. 163- 
171; G. Kretschmar, "Origenes und die Araber," in fyitschrift 
furTheologie undKirche L (1953), pp. 258-279. 

For reviews of Scherer's edition see G. W. H. Lampe in 
Journal of Theological Studies, New Series, I (1950), pp. 105-107; 
L. Friichtel in Theologische Liter atur^eitung, 1950, cols. 504-506 
(with some venturesome emendations of the text) ; A. EX Nock 
in American Journal of Archaeology, LV (1951), pp. 283-284. 

The fundamental paper on the Toura find as a whole is that 
of O. Gueraud, "Note preliminaire sur les papyrus d'Origene 
decouverts a Toura," in Revue de I'histoire des religions, CXXXI 
(1946), pp. 85-108. 

In the present translation the page numbers of Scherer's 
edition of the Greek text are noted in the margin. 



Dialogue of Origen with Heraclides and the 

Bishops with him concerning the Father 

and the Son and the Soul 1 



THE TEXT 

After the bishops present had raised questions concerning the faith of the ID 
bishop Heraclides, that he might confess before all the faith which he 
held, and after each one had said what he thought and asked questions, 
Heraclides said: 

I also believe what the sacred Scriptures say: "In the begin- 
ning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word 
was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things were 
made by him, and without him nothing was made. 3 ' 2 Accord- 
ingly, we hold the same faith that is taught in these words, and 
we believe that Christ took flesh, that he was born, that he went \% 
up to heaven in the flesh in which he rose again, that he is sitting 
at the right hand of the Father, and that thence he shall come 
and judge the living and the dead, being God and man. 

Origen said: Since once an inquiry has begun it is proper to 
say something upon the subject of the inquiry, I will speak. The 
whole church is present and listening. It is not right that there 
should be any difference in knowledge between one church and 
another, for you are not the false church. 

I charge you, father Heraclides: God is the almighty, the 
uncreated, the supreme God who made all things. Do you hold 
this doctrine? 

HeracL: I do. That is what I also believe. 

Orig.: Christ Jesus who was in the form of God, 3 being other 

1 The original scribe only wrote the title in the final colophon at the end of 
the work: "Dialogues of Origen: with Heraclides and the bishops with 
him." A later reviser added to this final colophon "Concerning the Father 
and the Son and the Soul" and also inserted this full title at the head of 
the work. 

2 John i :l -3. 3 Phil. 3:6. 

437 



438 ORIGEN 

than the God in whose form he existed, was he God before he 
came into the body or not? 
122 HeracL: He was God before. 

Orig.: Was he God before he came into the body or not? 

HeracL: Yes, he was. 

Orig.: Was he God distinct from this God in whose form he 
existed? 

HeracL: Obviously he was distinct from another being and, 
since he was in the form of him who created all things, he was 
distinct from him. 

Orig.: Is it true then that there was a God, the Son of God, 
the only begotten of God, the firstborn of all creation, 4 and that 
we need have no fear of saying that in one sense there are two 
Gods, while in another there is one God? 

HeracL: What you say is evident. But we affirm that God is 
the almighty, God without beginning, without end, containing 
all things and not contained by anything 5 ; and that his Word 
is the Son of the living God, God and man, through whom all 
things were made, 6 God according to the spirit, man inasmuch 
as he was born of Mary. 7 

Orig.: You do not appear to have answered my question. 
Explain what you mean. For perhaps I failed to follow you. Is 
the Father God? 

HeracL: Assuredly. 

Orig.: Is the Son distinct from the Father? 

HeracL : Of course. How can he be Son if he is also Father? 
124 Orig.: While being distinct from the Father is the Son him- 
self also God? 

HeracL: He himself is also God. 

Orig. : And do two Gods become a unity? 

HeracL: Yes. 

Orig.: Do we confess two Gods? 

HeracL : Yes. The power is one. 

Orig.: But as our brethren take offence at the statement that 
there are two Gods, we must formulate the doctrine carefully, 
and show in what sense they are two and in what sense the two 
are one God. Also the holy Scriptures have taught that several 
things which are two are one. And not only things which are 
two, for they have also taught that in some instances more than 
two, or even a very much larger number of things, are one. Our 

4 Col. 1:15. 

5 A theological commonplace; cf. Origen, de Pnnc., I, 3:3, etc. 

6 John 1:3. 7 Of. Rom. 1:3. 



DIALOGUE WITH HERAGLIDES 439 

present task is not to broach a problematic subject only to pass 
it by and deal cursorily with the matter, but for the sake of the 
simple folk to chew up, so to speak, the meat, and little by little 
to instil the doctrine in the ears of our hearers. . . . Accordingly, 
there are many things which are two that are said in the Scrip- 
tures to be one. What passages of Scripture? Adam is one per- 
son, his wife another. Adam is distinct from his wife, and his 
wife is distinct from her husband. Yet it is said in the story of the 
creation of the world that they two are one: "For the two shall 
be one flesh." 8 Therefore, sometimes two beings can become 
one flesh. Notice, however, that in the case of Adam and Eve 126 
it is not said that the two shall become one spirit, nor that the 
two shall become one soul, but that they shall become one flesh. 
Again, the righteous man is distinct from Christ; but he is said 
by the apostle to be one with Christ: "For he that is joined to 
the Lord is one spirit." 9 Is it not true that the one is of a sub- 
ordinate nature or of a low and inferior nature, while Christ's 
nature is divine and glorious and blessed? Are they therefore no 
longer two? Yes, for the man and the woman are "no longer 
two but one flesh," and the righteous man and Christ are "one 
spirit." So in relation to the Father and God of the universe, 
our Saviour and Lord is not one flesh, nor one spirit, but some- 
thing higher than flesh and spirit, namely, one God. The 
appropriate word when human beings are joined to one another 
is flesh. The appropriate word when a righteous man is joined 
to Christ is spirit. But the word when Christ is united to the 
Father is not flesh, nor spirit, but more honourable than these 
God. That is why we understand in this sense "I and the 
Father are one." 10 When we pray, because of the one party let 
us preserve the duality, because of the other party let us hold 
to the unity. In this way we avoid falling into the opinion of 
those who have been separated from the Church and turned to 
the illusory notion of monarchy,, who abolish the Son as distinct 
from the Father and virtually abolish the Father also. Nor do 128 
we fall into the other blasphemous doctrine which denies the 
deity of Christ. What then do the divine Scriptures mean when 
they say: "Beside me there is no other God, and there shall be 
none after me," and "I am and there is no God but me"? 11 In 
these utterances we are not to think that the unity applies to 
the God of the universe ... in separation from Christ, and 

s Gen. 2:24; Matt 19:5. 

9 I Cor. 6:17. Cf. contra Celsum, II, 9; VI, 47; Cowm. inMatt^ XIV, 16. 
10 John 10:30. i 1 Isa, 43:10; Deut. 32:39. 



44 ORIGEN 

certainly not to Christ in separation from God. Let us rather say 
that the sense is the same as that of Jesus' saying, "I and my 
Father are one." 

It is necessary to study these doctrines because there has been 
much disturbance in this church. Often people write and de- 
mand a signature of the bishop and of those they suspect, asking 
that they should give their signatures in the presence of all the 
people, that there may be no further disturbance or dispute 
about this question. Accordingly, with the permission of God 
and secondly of the bishops, thirdly of the presbyters, and also 
of the people, I will again say what I think on this subject. 

130 Offering is universally made to Almighty God through Jesus 
Christ inasmuch as, in respect of his deity, he is akin to the 
Father. Let there be no double offering, but an offering to God 
through God. I shall seem to be speaking in a daring manner. 
When we pray let us abide by the agreements. 12 If the word: 
"Thou shalt not respect the person of man, nor allow thyself to 
be impressed by the person of the mighty" 13 is not realized . . . 
If this is not realized . . . these agreements, it will give rise to 
fresh disputes. ... If a man is a bishop or a presbyter, he is not 
a bishop, he is not a presbyter. If he is a deacon, he is not a 
deacon, nor even a layman. If he is a layman, he is not a lay- 
man, nor is there a meeting of the congregation. If you assent 
let these agreed usages prevail. 

132 Some people raise the objection that, with reference to the 
problem of deity, while I have thus attributed deity to Jesus 
Christ substantially, I have professed before the church my 
faith that at the resurrection the body which rose had been a 
corpse, 14 But since our Saviour and Lord took a body, let us 

12 Origen uses sunthekai of the promises and credal confession made in 
baptism (e.g., ExL Mart., 12, 17). Cf. Clem. Strom. VII, 90. "The terms 
of the baptismal confession" would perhaps be a possible translation here. 
But the general idea of this corrupt passage is an appeal to the universal 
sense of the church. It is likely that Origen means the agreed formulas of 
liturgical prayer: lex orandi lex credendi. Scherer, however, thinks it means 
the agreements which are to constitute the practical conclusion of the 
debate. 

13 Lev. 19:15. The quotation is odd. Scherer is probably right in taking this 
to refer to interference in the affairs of the church by powerful people 
without authority ; but the precise sense of the allusion is lost, and the 
passage, the text of which is more corrupt than any other in the Dialogue, 
was not understood by the original scribe. The general sense is that if 
unauthorized people interfere, there will be chaos and the authorized 
ministry deprived of all meaning. 

14 See the Introduction, above p. 434, 



DIALOGUE WITH HERAGLIDES 441 

examine what the^body was. The church alone in distinction 
from all the heresies that deny the resurrection confesses the 
resurrection of the dead body. For from the fact that the first- 
fruits were raised from the dead, it follows that the dead are 
raised. "Christ the firstfruits" 15 ; on that account his body be- 
came a corpse. For if his body had not become a corpse, capable 
of being wrapped in a grave-cloth, of receiving the ointment 
and all the other things applied to dead bodies, and of being 
laid in a tomb 16 these are things that cannot be done to a 
spiritual body. For it is entirely impossible for that which is 
spiritual to become a corpse, neither can that which is spiritual 
become insensible. For if it were possible for that which is 134 
spiritual to become a corpse, we would have reason to fear lest 
after the resurrection of the dead, when our body is raised, 
according to the apostle's saying, "It is sown animate, it is 
raised spiritual, 3 ' 17 we shall all die. ... In fact "Christ being 
raised from the dead dies no more." 18 And not only Christ, but 
those who are Christ's, 19 when they are raised from the dead, 
die no more. If you agree to these statements, they also with the 
solemn testimony of the people shall be made legally binding 
and established. 20 

What else is there to be said concerning the faith? Do you 
agree to this, Maximus? Say. 

Maximus: May everyone hold the same doctrines as I do. 
Before God and the Church I both give my signature and make 
my oath. But the reason why I raised a certain question was in 
order that I might be in no doubt or uncertainty at all. For the 
brethren know that this is what I said: "I need the help of my 
brother and instruction on this point." If the spirit was truly 136 
given back to the Father, in accordance with the saying, 
"Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit," 21 and if without 
the spirit the flesh died and lay in the tomb, how was the tomb 
opened and how are the dead to rise again? 

Orig. : That man is a composite being we have learnt from the 
sacred Scriptures. For the apostle says, "May God sanctify your 
spirit and your soul and your body," and "May he sanctify you 
wholly, and may your entire spirit and soul and body be 

is I Cor. 15:12 ff. i* Gf. Matt. 27:59; Mark 15:46; Luke 23:53. 

n I Cor. 15:44. 18 Rom. 6:9. ^ I Cor. 15:23. 

20 The procedure appears to have been that at the end of the synod the doc- 
trinal decisions would have been formally set forth, and the congregation 
would have declared their adherence thereto. 

21 Luke 23:46. 



442 ORIGEN 

preserved unblameable at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ." 22 
This spirit is not the Holy Spirit, but part of the constitution of 
man, as the same apostle teaches when he says: "The spirit 
bears witness with our spirit." 23 For if it were the Holy Spirit 
he would not have said: "The spirit bears witness with our 
spirit." So then our Saviour and Lord, wishing to save man in 
the way in which he wished to save him, for this reason desired 
in this way to save the body, just as it was likewise his will to 
save also the soul; he also wished to save the remaining part of 
man, the spirit. The whole man would not have been saved un- 
less he had taken upon him the whole man. They do away with 
the salvation of the human body when they say that the body 
of the Saviour is spiritual. They do away with the salvation of 
the human spirit, concerning which the apostle says: "No man 
knows the things of man except the spirit of man that is in 
138 him." 24 . , , Because it was his will to save the spirit of man, 
about which the apostle said this, he also assumed the spirit of 
man. At the time of the passion these three were separated. 
At the time of the resurrection these three were united. At the 
time of the passion they were separated how? The body in the 
tomb, the soul in Hades, the spirit was put in the hands of the 
Father. 25 The soul in Hades: "Thou shalt not leave my soul in 
Hades." 26 If the spirit was put into the hands of the Father, he 
gave the spirit as a deposit. It is one thing to make a gift, another 
thing to hand over, and another to leave in deposit. He who 
makes a deposit does so with the intention of receiving back that 
which he has deposited. Why then had he to give the spirit to the 
Father as a deposit? The question is beyond me and my powers 
and my understanding. For I am not endowed with knowledge 
to enable me to say that, just as the body was not able to go down 
to Hades, even if this is alleged by those who affirm that the body 
of Jesus was spiritual, 27 so also neither could the spirit go down 

22 I Thess. 5:23. Cf. Origen, de Princ., II, 8:4, where he suggests that Christ's 
soul was "a kind of medium between the weak flesh and the willing 
spirit." 23 Rom. 8:16. 24 I Cor. 2:11. 

25 J. Crehan, "The Dialektos of Origen and John 20:17," in Theological 
Studies, XI (1950), 368-372, compares the Paschal homily ascribed both 
to John Ghrysostom and Hippolytus, edited by P. Nautin, Homilies 
Pascaks, I (1950), 185: "The heavens have thy spirit, paradise thy soul 
. . . the earth thy body. The indivisible is divided." 

26 Ps. 16 (i5):io; Acts 2:27. Cf. contra Celsum, II, 16. 

27 The Marcionites believed that their docetic Christ had descended to 
Hades to save all who had resisted the God of the Jews such as the 
Sodomites. Cf. contra Celsum, VI, 53, with my note thereon. 



DIALOGUE WITH HERAGLIDES 443 

to Hades, and therefore he gave the spirit to the Father as a 
deposit until he should have risen from the dead. . . . After he 
had entrusted this deposit to the Father, he took it back again. 
When? Not at the actual moment of the resurrection, but im- 
mediately after the resurrection. My witness is the text of the 
gospel. The Lord Jesus Christ rose again from the dead. Mary 
met him and he said to her: "Touch me not." 28 For he wished 
anyone that touched him to touch him in his entirety, that 
having touched him in his entirety he might be benefited in 
body from his body, in soul from his soul, in spirit from his 140 
spirit. "For I am not yet ascended to the Father." He ascends 
to the Father and comes to the disciples. Accordingly he 
ascends to the Father. Why? To receive back the deposit. 

All the questions about the faith which disturbed us have 
been examined. But we must realize that at the divine tribunal 
we are not judged for faith alone, 29 as if our life were left un- 
examined, nor for our life alone, as if our faith were not subject 
to scrutiny. We are justified on the ground that both are cor- 
rect. We are punished for both if both are incorrect. There are 
some, however, who will not be punished for both, but for one 
of the two: some for their faith because it is defective, but not 
because their life is lacking in right conduct; others, again, will 
not be punished for their faith, but will be for their life, on the 
ground that they have lived a life contrary to right reason. My 
opinion is that in the Proverbs of Solomon these two kinds (I 
mean that which concerns our belief and knowledge and that 
which concerns our manner of life) are mentioned by Solomon 
in the following words: "Who shall boast that he has a pure 
heart? Or who shall present himself saying that he is free from 
sins?" 30 The difference between these we take to be this: the 
"heart" means the thought, the "sins" refer to actions. "Who 
shall boast that he has a pure heart" which is undefiled by the 
knowledge falsely so-called, 31 undefiled by falsehood? Or "who 
shall present himself saying that he is free from sins," having 
done nothing amiss in his practical conduct? If then we wish to 
be saved, let us not be concerned about faith to the neglect of 142 
practical conduct of life, nor again let us place our confidence 
in our life. Let us realize, let us comprehend, let us believe that 
it is on the ground of both that we either receive our acquittal 
or blessedness, or receive the opposite of these. The things that 
are liable to punishment, therefore, are not merely the terrible 

28 John 20: 1 7. 29 Cf. James 2 .-24. 

so Prov. 20:9. 31 I Tim. 6:20, 



444 ORIGEN 

and fearful sins which should not even be named, 32 whether 
sins of life or of thought, but also sins commonly thought to be 
of less importance. That is why, it seems, the apostle puts side 
by side with acts which are abominable, infamous, and revolting 
(if I may so say) things which are regarded by most people as of 
little significance. What does he say? "Be not deceived; neither 
fornicators, nor adulterers, nor effeminate men, nor homo- 
sexuals, nor thieves, nor drunkards, nor revilers, shall inherit 
the kingdom of God." 33 You see that together with such gross 
sinners as the homosexual person, the effeminate man, the 
adulterer, the fornicator, he enumerates the drunkard, the 
reviler sins thought by all of us to be of small account, so that 
we may be taught that it is not for the great sins alone that we 
are excluded from the kingdom of God, but also for these which 
are commonly supposed to be of minor significance. Therefore, 
let us not revile, nor be drunkards, nor extort, nor steal, nor 
do anything wrong, even if we are "deceived." 34 
144 If there is any further point to raise concerning the Rule 
of faith, mention it. We will speak still further upon the 
Scripture. 

Dionysius said: Is the soul the blood? 

Orig.: It has come to my notice, and I say this with full know- 
ledge of the facts, that some of the folk here and in the neigh- 
bourhood suppose that after the soul has departed this life it is 
incapable of feeling, but is in the tomb, in the body. And I know 
that on this question I was impelled to deal very severely with 
the other Heraclides and Celer his predecessor, so severely in 
fact that I would have preferred to leave the subject and to go 
away. 35 But for the sake of honour and for the subject under 
debate he summoned us to deal with it. We agreed to discuss 



. 5:3. 

33 I Cor. 6:9-10. Of. Origen, in I Cor., XXVI (Jenkins, J.T.S., IX (1908), 
367): "Most of us can know in our consciences that we are not guilty of 
these vices; but with regard to those that follow, even I myself fear lest I 
may be guilty of the other sins. . . .'* 

34 This strange phrase is explained by Horn, in Jerem., XX, 3, where Qrigen 
says that I Cor. 6:9-10 might cause those who do not understand that 
God's punishments are purifying to lose heart. "For which of us is not 
aware in his conscience of having drunk not wisely and too well? Which 
of us is pure from theft . . .?" The truth that minor sins are punished by 
God no less than serious vices is a mystery which providentially is not 
understood by the ignorant multitude of believers who, if they were not 
deceived, would abandon hope, not realizing that God's punishments and 
harsh words are remedial and not retributive. 

35 Cf. Introduction, above p. 431. 



DIALOGUE WITH HERACLIDES 445 

the matter; he made a statement . . , 36 how the former cleared 
himself before us, as though before God, by his orthodox 37 
statements. 

Accordingly, the question posed by the beloved Dionysius 
forces our hand. I shall first set out the passages which trouble 
them, lest any one of them be omitted, and by God's permission 
we will answer each one of them in accordance with your re- 
quest. The disturbing passage is as follows: "The soul of all 
flesh is blood." This text has terribly distressed those who have 146 
not understood it. Also, "Ye shall not eat the soul with the 
flesh; pay strict heed to see that you eat no blood; ye shall not 
eat the soul with the flesh." 38 The disturbing text is this one. 
For the other distressing texts are far less emphatic in expressing 
the idea suggested here. For my part, according to my measure 
of understanding, and praying for assistance in reading the 
divine words (for we are in need of help lest our minds should 
conceive ideas diverging from the truth), 39 I have found that 
incorporeal things are given the same names as all the cor- 
poreal things, so that just as corporeal things apply to the outer 
man, those which are given the same names as corporeal things 
apply to the inner man. The Bible says that man is two men: 
"For if our outward man perish, yet our inward man is renewed 
day by day," and "I rejoice in the law of God after the inward 
man." 40 These two men the apostle everywhere shows to be 
distinct. In my judgment he would not have ventured to invent 
this notion out of his own head, but rather said this because he 
had clearly understood statements in the Scriptures which are 
obscurely expressed. Some people imagine that there is a mere 
repetition when in the story of the creation of the world after 
the creation of man we read "God took dust of the earth and 
formed man." 41 The corollary of this interpretation is that it is 
the body which is the part "after the image," 42 and that God is 
given a human form, or that the form of God 43 is shaped like 
the human body. But we are not so crazy as to say either that 

36 The sense is not clear and was not understood by the scribe. Whether 
Heraclides or Celer cleared himself before Origen is obscure. 

37 Reading: <f>a)vals morccos op&fc (MS. orC) co? Trpos 1 feov. 

38 Lev. 17:11 f; Deut. 12:23. 

30 Origen often says that divine grace and prayer are necessary for inter- 
preting the Scripture rightly. Cf. e.g. Horn, in Ezech., II, 2 . 

40 II Cor. 4:16; Rom. 7:22. For the idea cf. contra Celsum, VII, 34; de Princ.> 
I, 1:9: 'The names of organs of sense are often applied to the soul/* 
Very similar is Horn, in Ezech., Ill, 8. 

41 Gen. 2:7. 42 Gen. 1:26. 43 Cf. Phil. 2:6. 



446 ORIGEN 

148 God is composed of a superior and an inferior element so that 
that which is in his image is like him in both elements, which 
consitute God in his completeness, or that that which is in his 
image consisted rather in the inferior part and not in the 
superior. 44 

The questions are highly delicate. We need hearers who have 
an acute understanding. I therefore charge those who listen to 
pay heed to themselves lest they should make me liable to the 
accusation of casting holy things to the dogs, to shameless souls. 
For the barkers, like dogs, those who think only of fornication 
and abuse, do nothing but yelp like dogs, and it is not right for 
me to cast holy things before such folk. So also I charge my 
hearers that they do not make me liable to the accusation of 

150 laying splendid pearls, which we try to collect like good mer- 
chants, 45 before people steeped in the impurities of their bodies, 
and who are therefore called swine. 46 For I would say that a 
person who continually steeps himself and wallows in the filth 
of life and makes no attempt to live a pure life, a holy life, is 
simply a swine. If then, because the kingdom of heaven is like a 
merchant seeking goodly pearls, I find the goodly pearls, and 
having bought them at the price of weariness and sleeplessness 
I fling them before pleasure-loving souls, and those who are 
steeped in the filth of the body and in impurity, then I also 
will be a transgressor because I am casting pearls before swine. 
But when the swine have got the pearls, because they do 
not perceive their beauty nor see their excellence, they 
tread them under foot by speaking evil of what was rightly 
said, and not only do they trample the pearls under foot, but 
they also turn and rend those who supplied them with the 
pearls. 

I beseech you, therefore, be transformed. Resolve to learn 
that in you there is the capacity to be transformed, and to put 
off the form of a swine, which is in an impure soul, and the 
shape of a dog, which is that of a man who barks and reviles and 
pours out abuse. It is also possible to be transformed from the 
shape of snakes; for a wicked man is described as a serpent and 

44 The text here is corrupt. The later reviser makes corrections rejected by 
Scherer, but which seem more satisfactory than his own close adherence 
to the original scribe; I have attempted to translate the reviser's text. 
The idea is closely paralleled in contra Celsum, VI, 63. 

4 5 Read after Friichtel: im/DW/Lte0a a>? KaXol l/ropot, TrapariBevrcs , . . (but 
Friichtel needlessly inserts a verb; Origen normally constructs 

with a following participle, as here, and p. 152, 18 Sch.). 
K Matt. 7:6. 



DIALOGUE WITH HERAGLIDES 447 

"the offspring of vipers. 3 ' 47 If, then, we are willing to under- 
stand that in us there is the power to be transformed from being 
serpents, swine, and dogs, let us learn from the apostle that the 
transformation depends upon us. For he says this: "We all, 
when with unveiled face we reflect the glory of the Lord, are 
transformed into the same image." 48 If you are like a barking 
dog, and if the Word has moulded and transformed you, you 
have been transformed from being a dog to being a man. If you 
were impure and the Word came to your soul and you sub- 
mitted yourself to the moulding of the Word, you changed from 
being a swine to being a man. If you were a savage beast, and 152 
heard the Word that tames and softens, that changes you into a 
man, by the will of the Word you will no longer be called a ser- 
pent, the offspring of vipers. For if it were impossible for these 
serpents, serpents in their soul because of wickedness, to be 
changed, the Saviour (or John) would not have said: "Do 
therefore fruits worthy of repentance. 3 ' 49 After repentance you 
are no longer a serpent, the offspring of vipers. 

Since it is our task to speak about man, and to inquire 
whether the soul of man is not blood, and since this subject re- 
quired us to discuss in detail the doctrine of the two men, and 
as we have come to a mysterious subject, I beseech you that you 
do not cause me to be accused of casting pearls before swine, 
of throwing holy things to the dogs, of flinging divine things to 
serpents, of giving the serpent a share in the tree of life. That 
I may avoid this accusation, be transformed, put off evil, quar- 
relling, wrath, strife, anger, division of opinion, 50 that there 
may not be any further schisms among you but that "you 
may be firmly established in the same mind and the same 
judgment. 3351 

To speak makes me embarrassed, and not to speak makes me 
embarrassed. Because of those who are worthy I would speak, 
lest I be accused of depriving of the word those able to under- 
stand it. Because of the unworthy I shrink from speaking for 
the reasons I have given, lest I should be flinging holy things to 
dogs and casting pearls before swine. It was the work of Jesus 
only to know how to distinguish among his hearers between 
those without and those within, so that he spoke to those with- 
out in parables, but explained the parables to those who 

47 Cf. Matt. 23:33. For the idea cf. Clement, Protrept, I, 4. 
48 II Cor. 3:18. 

49 Luke 3:8; cf. Matt. 3:8. so Cf. Col. 3:8. 

si I Cor. 1:10. 



448 ORIGEN 

entered into his house. 52 To remain without and to enter into 
the house have a mystical meaning. "Why should I judge those 
154 that are without? 5 ' 53 Every sinner is without. That is why those 
without are addressed in parables in case they should be able 
to leave the things without and enter within. To enter the house 
has a mystical meaning: he who enters Jesus' house is his true 
disciple. He enters by holding the doctrine of the church, by 
living a life according to the teaching of the church. "Within" 
and "without" are spiritual terms. 

You see how long an introduction I have given in order to 
prepare my hearers. I shrink from speaking. When I am on the 
point of speaking I put it off. What is my purpose in doing this? 
To shape my discourse so as to heal the souls of my hearers. 

At the creation of man, then, there was first created the man 
that is "after the image/ 3 in whom there was nothing material. 
He who is in the image is not made out of matter. "And God 
said, Let us make man in our image and likeness, and let them 
have dominion" 54 and so on. And when God made man he did 
not take dust of the earth, as he did the second time, but he 
made him in the image of God. That that which is in the image 
of God is understood as immaterial and superior to all cor- 
poreal existence not only by Moses but also by the apostle is 
shown by his words, as follows: "Putting off the old man with 
his deeds and putting on the new which is renewed in the know- 
ledge of him who created him." 55 

Therefore in each one of us there are two men. Why does 
Scripture say that the soul of all flesh is blood? It is a great 
problem. Just as the outward man has the same name as the 
inward man, so also this is true of his members, so that one may 
say that every member of the outward man has a name corres- 
ponding to what is true of the inward man. 

156 The outward man has eyes, and the inward man also is said 
to have eyes: "Lighten my eyes lest I sleep in death." 56 This 
does not refer to these eyes, nor to physical sleep, nor to 
ordinary death. "The commandment of the Lord, luminous, 
enlightens the eyes." 57 By keeping the commandments of the 
Lord we do not become more sharp-sighted physically but by 

52 Cf. Mark 4:11; Matt. 13:36. Similarly contra Celsum, III, 21. 

53 I Cor. 5:12. 

54 Gen. 1 126-27. Origen follows Philo (Opif., 134 if.; Leg. Alkg., I, 31 f.) in 
interpreting Gen. ch. i of the creation of the archetypal Image; Gen. 
ch. 2 describes the making of material man of the dust of the earth. For 
the idea cf. C. H. Dodd, The Bible and the Greeks (1935), pp. 145 ff. 

55 Col. 3:9. 56 p s . I3 ( I2 ); 3 . 57 P S . 19 (l8);8. 



DIALOGUE WITH HERACLIDES 449 

keeping the divine commands we become more sharp-sighted 
in mind. The eyes of our inward man see with greater per- 
ception: "Open my eyes and I shall comprehend the wonders 
of thy Law." 58 It is not that his eyes were veiled; but our eyes 
are our mind. It is for Jesus alone to unveil them, that we may 
be able to understand the Scriptures and comprehend what is 
obscurely expressed. 

The outward man has ears, and the inward man also is said 
to have ears. "He that has ears to hear, let him hear." 59 They 
all had ears as organs of physical sense; but they had not all 
succeeded in having the inward ears which are purified. To 
possess the latter sort of ears is not part of our natural con- 
stitution; the former are part of our nature. And because the 
former sort of ears are part of our nature the prophet says, 
"Hear ye deaf, and ye blind, look and see. Who is deaf but my 
servants, and who is blind but those who are their lords? Even 
the servants of God are blinded." 60 That to become deaf is 
what we bring upon ourselves let us pay attention: what I am 
saying will affect all of us; it is necessary to describe the inward 
man to discover what the blood is that to become deaf in 
respect of the inward ears is something we bring upon our- 
selves, hear the declaration of the prophet: "Sinners are alien- 
ated from the womb; they have erred from the womb. They 
have spoken lies. Wrath is upon them after the likeness of the 158 
serpent, like a deaf adder which stops her ears, which does not 
hear the voice of those who enchant her and the incantation 
pronounced by a wise man." 61 And all of you also who are aware 
that you are responsible, if you hear the word and the incajita- 
tion pronounced by a wise man and listen to the enchanting 
words, so that he may check your wrath and iniquity, and if, 
then, you shut your ears, and do not throw them wide open to 
accept what is said, then to you apply the words: "Wrath is on 
them after the likeness of the serpent like a deaf adder which 
stops her ears, which does not hear the voice of those who 
enchant her and the incantation pronounced by a wise man." 

The outward man has nostrils with which to smell, and so 
perceives good and bad smells; and the inner man with different 
nostrils perceives the good smell of righteousness and the bad 
smell of sins. Of the good smell the apostle teaches us when he 
says, "We are a sweet savour of Christ unto God in every place, 

38 p s . 119 (n8):i8. & Matt, 11:15, etc. 

<w Isa. 42:18. 

6i Ps. 58 (57) : 3-^5. Cf. contra Celsum, IV, 72, and note thereon. 
A.C. 29 



45 ORIGEN 

among them that are saved and them that are perishing; to the 
one a savour of death unto death, to the others a savour of life 
unto life." 62 And Solomon also says in the Song of Songs, put- 
ting the words into the mouth of the daughters of Jerusalem: 
"After thee we will run to the odour of thy perfumes." 63 As, 
then, we perceive with our nostrils good and bad smells in the 
world of sense, so also for the inward man there is a perception 
of the good smell of righteousness such as the apostle had, and 
an evil smell of sins, which is possessed by the person whose 
divine senses are in good health. What is the evil smell of sins? 
That of which the prophet says this: "My sores have become 
foul and rotten in face of my foolishness." 64 

The outward man has the sense of taste; and the inner man 
also has a spiritual taste, of which it is said: "Taste and see that 
the Lord is kindly." 65 

160 The outward man has physical touch. The inner man also 
has touch, that touch by which the woman with the issue of 
blood touched the hem of Jesus' garment. 66 She touched it. For 
he witnessed to the fact saying, "Who touched me?" Yet just 
before Peter said to him, "The crowds throng you and you say, 
Who touched me?" He imagined that those who touched him, 
touched by physical, not spiritual contact. Those, therefore, 
who thronged Jesus did not touch him. For they did not touch 
him by faith. Only the woman, who had a sort of divine touch, 
touched Jesus and by this was healed. And because she touched 
him with a divine touch, power went out from Jesus at her 
divine touch. He says therefore: "Who touched me? For I have 
felt power to go forth from me." Concerning this more divine 
touch John says: "And our hands have handled concerning the 
word of life." 6 ? 

In this way we possess other hands, concerning which it is 
said: "Let the lifting up of my hands be an evening sacrifice." 68 
For it is not when I lift up these hands, while the hands of my 
soul hang down instead of being lifted up by holy and good 
works, that the lifting up of my hands becomes an evening 
sacrifice. I also have feet of a different kind, concerning which 
Solomon commands me saying, "Let not thy foot stumble." 69 

There is a curious saying in Ecclesiastes. To anyone that does 
not understand it it will seem meaningless, but it is for the wise 
man that Ecclesiastes says: "The wise man has his eyes in his 

62 II Cor. 2:15-16. 63 s. of Sol. 1:4. 64 p s . 38 (37)15. 

65 Ps. 34 (33) :8; I Pet. 2:3. 66 Luke 8:45-46; Mark 5:29-32. 

67 1 John 1:1. 68 Ps. 141 (1^0)12. 69 p rov . 3:23. 



DIALOGUE WITH HERAGLIDES 45! 

head," 70 In what head? Every man, even the blockhead and the 
fool, has his bodily eyes in his bodily head. But "the wise man 
has his eyes" (those of which I have already spoken, which are 
enlightened by the Lord's commandment 71 ) "in his head/ 5 in 162 
Christ, since "Christ is the head of a man," 72 the apostle says. 
The thinking faculty is in Christ. 

"My belly, my belly is in pain," 73 says Jeremiah. In what 
belly is he in pain? That in which we too feel pain, that by 
which, when it is in travail bringing the people to birth 74 ; "I 
suffer pain in my belly and my sense" not these senses, but 
those of my heart. 

Even if I pass on to the fine parts of the body, I see them in 
the soul under an unfleshly form. "Lord, reprove me not in 
thine anger; chastise me not in thy anger. Have pity on 
me, Lord, for I am feeble. Heal me Lord, for my bones are 
troubled." 75 What bones of the prophet were troubled? The 
constitution of his soul and the firmness of his mind was 
troubled, and he implored the Lord for the restoration of those 
bones. "Our bones are scattered in Hades." 76 What bones of 
the speaker were scattered in Hades? Consider, I pray you, the 
sinner, consider his frame in the domain of sin, in the domain 
of the dead, in the domain of evil, and you will say of such a 
man that his bones are scattered. "All my bones will say, Lord 
who is like unto thee?" 77 They are the bones which speak, con- 
verse with, and perceive God, whereas these bones are incap- 
able of perception, as is shown by the sons of physicians; when 
they saw off a man's bones, he does not feel the saw. "All my 
bones will say, Lord who is like unto thee?" All the bones are 
those which belong to the inner man. 

The inner man has a heart. "Hear me, ye who have lost 
your heart." 78 They possessed a heart, that of the body; it was 
not that heart which they lost. But when a man neglects to 164 
cultivate his intellectual life, and in consequence of much idle- 
ness his thinking capacity has atrophied, he has lost his heart, 
and it is to such a person that the words are added: "Hear me a 
ye who have lost your heart," 

"The hairs of your head are all numbered." 7 * What hairs? 
Those by virtue of which they were Nazirites in a spiritual 
sense, 

70 Eccles. 2:14. 71 Cf. Ps. 19 (i8):8. 72 I Cor. 11:3, 

73 Jer 4-19. 74 Cf. Gal. 4:19. 75 Ps. 6:2-3, 

76 Ps, I4 i (i 4 o):7. 77 p s . 35 ( 34 ):io, 7 * Isa. 46:12. 
79 Matt. 10:30. 



452 ORIGEN 

Thus you have all the parts of the visible body in the inner 
man. Do not doubt, then, concerning the blood also because it 
has the same name as physical blood, like the other members of 
the body. It is that which belongs to the inner man. It is that 
blood which is poured forth from a sinful soul. For "The blood 
of your souls shall be required. 35 80 It does not say "your blood 51 
but "the blood of your souls." And "I will require the blood at 
the hand of the watchman." 81 What kind of blood does God 
require at the hand of the watchman, but that which is poured 
forth from the sinner? Thus the heart of the fool perishes, and 
it is said, "Hear me, ye who have lost your heart," because 
there is poured forth the blood and the vital power of the soul. 
If one comprehends what the soul is, and that it belongs to 
the inner man, and that it is in that part there is the element 
which is "in the image," it is clear that Paul was right when he 
said: "For it were better to depart and to be with Christ." 82 
Before the resurrection the righteous man is with Christ and in 
his soul he lives with Christ. That is why it is better to depart 
and to be with Christ. But according to you who say that the 
soul remains in the tomb with the body, it has not left the body, 
it does not rest, it does not dwell in the paradise of God, it does 
not repose in the bosom of Abraham. 83 According to you who 
166 maintain such absurd doctrines it would not be better to depart 
and to be with Christ. For one is not with Christ as soon as one 
departs if the soul is the blood. If the soul remains in the tombs, 
how can it be with Christ? But according to my view and that 
of the word of God, the soul which has departed from the 
troubles, the sweat, and the body, that which can say, "Lord 
now lettest thou thy servant depart in peace," 84 is that which 
departs in peace and rests with Christ. It is thus that the soul of 
Abraham understood the words: "As for thee, thou shalt go in 
peace to thy fathers, having lived to a good old age." 85 He de- 
parted to his fathers. What fathers? Those of whom Paul says: 
"For this cause I bow my knees to the Father of whom all 
fatherhood is derived." 86 In our view it was in this sense that 
Aaron was set free. 87 Also it is written in Ecclesiastes concerning 
the just man who has fought a good fight, who is departing from 
the fetter of the body, that "From the house of the prisoners he 
will go forth to be a king." 88 Thus I am persuaded to die for the 

8 Gen. 9:5. 8i Ezek. 33:6. 82 Phil. 1:23. 

*s Luke 16:23. 84 Luke 2:29. 

85 Gen. 15:15; cf. Exh. Mart., 14 (above, p. 403). 86 Eph. 3:14. 

87 Num. 20:29. 88 Eccles. 4:14. 



DIALOGUE WITH HERAGLIDES 453 

truth, thus I readily despise what is called death. Bring wild 
beasts, bring crosses, bring fire, bring tortures. I know that as 
soon as I die, I come forth from the body, I rest with Christ. 
Therefore let us struggle, therefore let us wrestle, let us groan 
being in the body, 89 not as if we shall again be in the tombs 
in the body, because we shall be set free from it, and shall 
change our body to one which is more spiritual Destined as 
we are to be with Christ, how we groan while we are in the 
body! 

Bishop Philip came in, and Demetrius, another bishop, said: 
Brother Origen teaches that the soul is immortal. 

Orig.: The remark of father Demetrius has given us the start- 
ing point for another problem. He asserted that we have said 
the soul is immortal. To this remark I will say that the soul is 168 
immortal and the soul is not immortal. Let us first define the 
meaning of the word "death," and determine all its possible 
senses. I will try to show all its meanings not by appealing to 
the Greeks, but all its meanings as found in the divine Scripture. 
Perhaps one more learned than I will point out other senses 
also. But for the present I am aware ofjhree kinds of death. 
What are these three kinds of death? According to the apostle, 
a man .may Jive unto God and die unto,sia,? This death- k-a 
blessed thing. A man dies to sin. This death my Lord died. 
"For in that he died, he died unto sin." 91 1 know also another 
sort^of death, according to which a man dies to God; concerning 
this it w^s .said: "The soul that sins, it shall die," 92 And I know 
of a third kind of death, according to which we commonly 
suppose that those who are separated from the body die- For 
"Adam lived nine hundred and thirty years and died." 93 

There being, then, three kinds of death, let us see whether the 
human soul is immortal in respect of the three kinds of death, 
or if not in respect of the three, yet in respect of some of them. 
The death that is a matter of moral indifference all men die. 170 
It is that which we consider dissolution. No soul of man dies 
this death. For if it did so, it would not be punished after death. 
It is said: "Men shall seek for death and shall not find it." 94 In 
this sense every human soul is immortal. But in the other mean- 
ings, the soul in one sense is mortal, and blessed if it dies to sin. 
It is of this death that Balaam spoke when he prophesied, pray- 
ing by divine inspiration: "May my soul die among the souls of 

89 II Cor. 5:2, 4. 90 Rom. 6:2. 

9i Rom 6:10. 92 Ezek. 18:4. 

93 Gen. 5:5. 94 Rev. 9:6. 



454 ORIGEN 

the just." 95 Concerning this death Balaam made his astonishing 
prophecy, and by the word of God he made for himself a 
splendid prayer. For he prayed that he might die to sin that he 
might live unto God. And this account he said: "May my soul 
die among the souls of the just and my posterity be like their 
posterity." There is another death in respect of which we are 
not immortal, although we have the power by exercising vigil- 
ance to avoid death. And perhaps that which is mortal in the 
soul is not for ever mortal. For in so far as it gives way to sin, so 
that the word is realized which says, "the soul that sins, it shall 
die," 9 <> the soul is mortal and dies a real death. But if it is found 
firmly established in blessedness so that it is inaccessible to 
death, because it has eternal life, it is no longer mortal but in 
172 this sense has even become immortal. How is it that the 
apostle says of God: "He who alone has immortality 35 ? 9 7 On 
investigation I find that Christ Jesus "died for all apart from 
God." 98 There you have the explanation how God alone has 
immortality. 

Let us therefore take up eternal life. Let us take up that which 
depends upon our decision. God does not give it to us. He sets 
it before us. "Behold, I have set life before thy face." 99 It is in 
our power to stretch out our hand, to do good works, and to lay 
hold on life and deposit it in our soul. This life is the Christ who 
said: "I am the life." 1 This life is that which now is present in 
shadow, but then will be face to face. 2 "For the spirit before our 
face is Christ of whom we may say, In his shadow we shall live 
among the nations." 3 If the mere shadow of life that is yours 
offers you so many good things, that shadow which Moses had 
when he prophesied, that shadow which Isaiah possessed when 
he saw the Lord Sabaoth sitting upon a throne high and lifted 
up, which Jeremiah had when he heard the words: "Before I 
formed thee in the womb, I knew thee, and before thou didst 
come forth from the womb I sanctified thee," which Ezekiel 

95 Num. 23:10. Scherer is no doubt right in explaining the repetition here 
as originating from a double recension. The second, fuller version was in- 
tended to replace the first. It is probable that the two versions arose from 
two different stenographic reports, and that, if Origen revised the final 
copy himself, he failed to notice the mistake. 

96 Ezek. 18:4. 97 1 Tim. 6:16. 

98 II Cor. 5:15; Heb. 2:9, which Origen knows in both readings (a) "apart 
from God," (b) "by the grace of God" (Comm. in Joann., I, 35 (40); 
XXVIII, 1 8 (14)). He regarded the first as the correct text. 

99 Deut. 30:15. i John 11:25; 14:6. 2 I Cor. 13:12. 

3 Lam. 4:20. 



DIALOGUE WITH HERAGLIDES 455 

had when he saw the Cherubim, when he saw the wheels, the 174 
ineffable mysteries 4 : what sort of life shall we live when we are 
no longer living under the shadow of life but are in life itself. 
For now "our life is hid with Christ; but when Christ, who is our 
life, shall appear, then shall we also appear with him in glory. 5 ' 5 
Let us haste towards this life, groaning and grieving that we are 
in this tent, that we dwell in the body. So long as we are present 
in the body, we are absent from the Lord. 6 Let us long to be 
absent from the body and to be present with the Lord, that 
being present with him we may become one with the God of the 
universe and his only begotten Son, being saved in all things 
and becoming blessed, in Jesus Christ, to whom be the glory and 
the power for ever and ever. Amen. 

Dialogues 1 of Origen: 

with Heraclides and the bishops with him^ 

concerning the Father and the Son and the Soul. 

4 Isa. 6:1; Jer. 1:5; Ezek. 1:15; 10:1. 

5 Col. 3:3-4. 6 II Cor. 5:6, 8. 

7 The plural offers no reason for supposing that there was a collection of 
Origen's discussions, only one of which has been preserved in the present 
text. The reviser used the singular in the heading he gave to the work, 
and evidently thought that a more appropriate designation. But the 
original scribe may have used the plural to refer to the various themes 
discussed. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 

CLEMENT OF ALEXANDRIA 
A. EDITIONS 

The standard edition of Clement, which has made all earlier editions 
antiquated, is that of Otto Stahlin in the Berlin Corpus (Die 
griechischen christlichen Schriftsteller der ersten drei Jahrhunderte, 4 vols., 
Leipzig, 1905-1936). The editio princeps was produced by P. Vic- 
torius (Florence, 1550), soon followed by that of F. Sylburg (Heidel- 
berg, 1592). Archbishop Potter produced a good edition (Oxford, 
1 7 Z 5)> reprinted at Venice in 1757, and by several later editors, e.g., 
F. Oberthur (Wurzburg, 1778-1779) who, however, omitted all 
accents from the Greek text (!); R. Klotz (Leipzig, 1831-1834); 
Migne, Patrologia Graeca, VIII-IX (1857). The edition of W. Din- 
dorf (Oxford, 1869) can only be used by those who are prepared to 
emend the Greek text as they read. 

QfStromateis VII an excellent edition with an English translation 
(reprinted in the present volume) and provided with an important 
introduction and commentary was produced by F. J. A. Hort and 
J. B. Mayor (London, Macmillan, 1902). 

B. LITERATURE 

Anrich, G., "Clemens und Origenes als Begriinder der Lehre vom 

Fegfeuer," Theologische Abhandlungen fur H. J. Holtzmann (1902) 

pp. 97-120. 

Bardy, G., Clement d'Alexandrie (Paris, 1926). 
Bardy, G., "Aux origines de l'<cole d'Alexandrie," Recherches de 

science religieuse, Vol. XXVII (1937), pp. 65-90. 
Bardy, G., 'Tour 1'histoire de l'6cole d'Alexandrie," Vivre et Penser, 

2 e srie, Paris, 1942, pp. 80-109, 

Bigg, C., The Christian Platonists of Alexandria (2nd ed., Oxford, 1913). 
Buri, F., Clemens Alexandrinus und der paulinische Freiheitsbegriff (Zurich 

1939). . 

Camelot, T., Foi et Gnose: introduction a V etude de la connaissance mystique 

'I'* Ctiment d'Alexandrie (Paris, 1945). 

456 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 457 

Casey, R. P., "Clement of Alexandria and the beginnings of Chris- 
tian Platonism," Harvard Theological Review, Vol. XVIII (1925), 

pp. 39-101. 

Faye, E. de, Clement d'Alexandrie (snd ed., Paris, 1906). 
Lietzmann, H., The Founding of the Church Universal (snd ed., London, 

I 95) (^Geschichte der alien Kirche, II, Leipzig, 1936). 
Molland, E., The Conception of the Gospel in the Alexandrian Theology 

(Oslo, 1938). 

Mondesert, C., Clement d'Alexandrie (Paris, 1944). 
Munck, J., Untersuchungen iiber Klemens von Alexandria (Stuttgart, 

1933). 
Pohlenz, M., "Klemens von Alexandreia und sein hellenisches 

Christentum," Nachrichten der Akademie der Wissenschaften in Got- 

tingen (phil. hist. Kl. 1943, Heft 3). 
Quatember, F., Die christliche Lebenshaltung des Klemens von Alex- 

andrien (Vienna, 1947). 
Ruther, T., Die sittliche Forderung der Apatheia in den beiden ersten 

christlichen Jahrhunderten und bei Klemens von Alexandrien (Freiburg, 

1949)- 
Tollinton, R. B., Clement of Alexandria: a study in Christian Liberalism 

(London, 1914). 
Volker, W., Der wahre Gnostiker nach Clemens Alexandrinus (Berlin and 

Leipzig, 1952). 
Westcott, B. F., Article "Clement of Alexandria," in Dictionary of 

Christian Biography, Vol. I (1877). 
Zahn, T., Supplementum Clementinum (Erlangen, 1884). 

ORIGEN 

A. EDITIONS 

Until the present century the standard collected edition of Origen's 
works was that of Charles Delarue and his nephew Charles Vincent 
Delarue, published in four volumes in the eighteenth century (i 733- 
1759). This edition, with minor additions, was reprinted by C. H. E. 
Lommatzsch in twenty-five handy volumes (Berlin, 1831-1848), 
and with more substantial additions by Migne, Patrologia Graeca, 
Vols. XI-XVIII (Paris, 1857). So far as it is available, the standard 
edition now is that of the Berlin Corpus, twelve volumes of which 
have hitherto been devoted to Origen. These include the contra 
Celswm, de Oratione, the Exhortation to Martyrdom, the Homilies on books 
of the Old Testament and on St. Luke, and the two great com- 
mentaries on St. Matthew and St, John. 

B. LITERATURE 

Bardy, G., Orighie (Paris, 1931). 

Bigg, C. 3 The Christian Platonists of Alexandria (1913). 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Butterworth, G. W., Origen on First Principles (London, 1936). 

Gadkm, R., Introduction au systeme d* Origene (Paris, 1932). 

Gadiou, R., La Jeunesse d' Origene (Paris, 1935). 

Chadwick, H., Origen: contra Celsum (Cambridge, 1953). 

Danielou, J., Origene (Paris, 1948). 

Denis, M. J., De la philosophie d'Qrigtne (Paris, 1884). 

Faye, E. de., Origene, sa vie, son auvre, sa pensee (Paris, 1923-1928). 

Faye, E. de, Origen and his work (trans. Fred Rothwell. London, 

1926). 

Hanson, R. P. C., Origen s Doctrine of Tradition (London, 1954). 
Harnack, A. von, Der kirchengeschichtliche Ertrag der exegetischen Ar- 

beiten des Origenes (Leipzig, 1919). 

Karpp, HL, Probleme altchristlicher Anthropologie (Giitersloh, 1950). 
Knox, W. L., "Origen's conception of the resurrection body/' 

Journal of Theological Studies, Vol. XXXIX (1938), pp. 247248. 
Koch, Hal, Pronoia und Paideusis: Studien uber Origenes und sein Ver- 

hdltnis zum Platonismus (Berlin and Leipzig, 1932). 
Lieske, A., Die Theologie der Logos-Mystik bei Origenes (Minister, 

I938)- 

Lubac, H. de, Histoire et Esprit: L 3 intelligence de Vecriture d*aprh 
Origene (Paris, 1950). 

Redepenning, E. R., Origenes > eine Darstellung seines Lebens und seiner 
Lehre (Bonn, 1841). 

Volker, W., Das Vollkommenheitsideal des Origenes (Tlibingen, 1931). 

Westcott, B. F., Article "Origenes/' in Dictionary of Christian Bio- 
graphy, Vol. IV (1887). 



INDEXES 



GENERAL INDEX 



Abraham, 388 

Absolution, powers of, 180, 181, 220, 

310, 372-375 

Accentuation of Scriptures, 58 
Adam, fall of, 84, 88 
Adoptianism, 433 
Adrasteia, 105 
Aelian, 63-64, 113, 159 
Aeschylus, 157 
Aetius, 365 
Aetolians, 106 
Agape, 10, 157 
Agathopus, 67 
Agraphon, ascribed to Christ, 87, 151, 

240, 266, 272, 375 
Agrippa Castor, 389 
Alexander, Bishop of Jerusalem, 174 
Alexander Polyhistor, 68 
Alexandria, Christianity at, 15 ff. 
Ambrose, Bishop of Milan, 35, 231, 385 
Ambrose, friend of Origen, 182-184, 

239> 330-33^ 336, 388, 393, 4 l8 ~4 20 
Amoebeus, cithara-player, 63 
Anamnesis, 287, 357 
Androcydes, Pythagorean, 113 
Andronicus, 59 
Angels, 95-98, 117, 129, 143, 147, 195, 

259-261, 325, 326, 342, 383, 384; of 

churches, 260, 342; fallen, 122, 148; 

right and left, 405 
Anicetus, Pope, 25 
Anthimus of Nicomedia, 25 
Anticyra, 108 
Antinous, 24, 28 
Antiochus Epiphanes, 56, 408 f. 
Antiphon, 107 
Antitactat, 20, 55 
Antoninus Pius, 162 
Aphrodite, 141; Pandernos, 52 
Apollinarius, 435 



Apollo, sun, 425 

Apollonius Rhodius, 51, 184 

Apollonius of Tyana, 388 

Aquarii, 358 

Arcesilaus, 107 

Archelaus, dancer, 159 

Ares, iron, 126 

Aristarchus, 344 

Aristophanes, 184 

Aristotle, 41, 60, 103, 136-137* I57> 

159, 337, 339; 353, 3&2, 425 
Aristotle of Cyrene, 63-64 
Artemis, 1 06, 425 
Asceticism, 22 ff. 
Astylos of Croton, 63 
Athena, 106 
Athenagoras, 36-37 
Athenodorus, 177 
Auge, 1 06 
Augustine, 42, 88 
Augustus, 162 
Authority in belief, 151 ff. 

Baptism, 79, 81, 202, 248, 355; by 
blood, 408, 413; promises and con- 
fession, 125, 151, 400, 404-405, 440 

Basil of Ancyra, 37-38, 55 

Basil of Caesarea, 38, 231, 384, 386 

Basilides, 15, 27, 30-31, 40-41, 76, 145, 
162-163, 355, 389 

Beans, 51 

Benedict of Nursia, 38 

Beryllus of Bostra, 177, 347, 43> 432 

Bible, 93; as norm of orthodoxy 153 ff. 

Bion of Borysthcnes, 107 

Biton, 48 

Bodies of heavenly beings, 191, 232, 
324, 381, 382 

Boethius, 186 

Brahmans, 68 



459 



460 INDEXES 

Bread, how interpreted in the Lord's 

Prayer by Origen, 219 
Buddhism, 68 



Cainites, 163, 335 
Callimachus, 184 
Callistus, 181, 373,374 
Candidus, Valentinian, 431-432 

Carpocrates, 24 ff., 42 ff. 

Cassianus, Johannes, 29, 38 

Cassianus, Julianus, 23, 32, 83 f., 88 

Celer, 431,444-445 

Celibacy, clerical 35 

Gelsus, 18, 24, 28, 31, 46, 60, 109, 180, 
184,411 

Cephallenia, 26, 42 

Chain of being, 98, 100; cf. 146 

Charidemus, 159 

Chilon, 105 

Christ, see Jesus and Logos; assists us 
in prayer, 258; his teaching on 
how to pray, 276-280; our mediator 
in prayer, 258, 271; relationship to 
Father, 269 303, 347, 348, 369, 370; 
relationship to Holy Spirit, 333; 
subordination of, 189-191; tempta- 
tions of, 314, 322, 376*. 377; union 
of human and divine in, 293; see 
also Prayer, to whom addressed 

Christology, of Clement, 97 ff.; of 
Origen, 1 88 ff., 346 ff., 434 f., 440 ff.; 
of Valentine, 32, 67, 88 

Chrysippus, 106, 159, 356 

Church, and synagogue, 277, 278, 351; 
communion of saints, 104, 124; con- 
gregation of saints, no; holy body, 
149;^ ministry, 94, 119, 306, 440; 
sacrifice, 112 

Cicero, 16, 123, 367 

Circe, 24, 154 

Cleanthes, 113-114, 339 

Clement of Alexandria, 15-165, 173, 
212, 331, 335, 340, 341, 343, 352, 
355-358, 382, 385 

Clement of Rome, 42, 91, 149 

Cleobis, 48 

Coats of skins, 85 

Continence, gift of God, 42; pagan, 66, 

83 f., 137 
Corcyra, 26 
Council of Trent, 360 
Creation, doctrine of, 46, 51 ff., 90, 132^ 

146; of man, 445 ff. 
Creed, baptismal, 151 f.; cf. 437 
Crison of Himera, 63 
Crobylus, 159 
Croesus, 47 

Cup of Martyrdom, 412 
Cyprian, 374, 387, 390, 411 



Cyrenaic school, 118 
Cyril of Jerusalem, 385 

Daemons feed on sacrifices, 425; cf. 

inf. 
Day by day, Origen's interpretation of, 

304, 370 

Death separates soul and body, 138 
Deception, when justifiable, 127; of un- 

instructed Christians, 444 
Deification, 159, 256, 277, 286, 290, 

302, 340, 351, 357, 359, 391, 410 
Delos, pure altar of, 112 
Demeter, earth-spirit, 425 
Demetrius, Bishop of Alexandria, 173- 

i77 37i> 43i~432; cf. 453 
Demosthenes, 159 
Depravity, total, 148, 426 
Devil, demons, 195, 196, 202, 292-295, 

320-322, 360, 361, 368; salvation of 

devil, 431 f. 

Didascalia Apostolonan, 385 
Didymus the Blind, 25, 430 
Dio Cassius, 28 
Diogenes, 107-108 
Diogenes Laertius, 108, 118, 385 
Dionysius, bishop, 444 f. 
Dionysius, Bishop of Alexandria, 362, 

369, 374. 37^, 379. 4i i 
Dionysus, wine, 126 
Diphilus, 1 08 

Docetism, 23, 32-33, 88, 163 
Domitian, 16 

Earth, allegorized as "the Church," 

285, 292, 293, 360 
Eggs, in purification, 108 
Egyptian priests, vegetarian, 113; 

government officials, 115 
Egyptians, Gospel according to, 6 1, 69, 

83,86 

Eleusinian mysteries, 48 
Emanations, in Valentinianism, 40; 

great Chain of Being, 98, 100 
Empedocles, 47 
Encratities, 163 
Enshrinement, logf.; cf. 102 
Envy, diabolical, 27 
Epicharmus, 108 
Epictetus, 45, 339 
Epicurus, 41, 71, 116, 137 
Epioitsios, 219, 298-302, 362-364 
Epiphanes, 25 ff., 42 ff. 
Epiphanius, 23-24, 30, 55, 58, 77 
Epistle to Diognetus, 379 
Epistle to the Hebrews, Origen and 

author of, 361, 362 
Erigena, John Scotus, 187 
Ethiopian's idea of God, 106 



INDEXES 



461 



Eubulus, comic poet, 1 1 1 

Eucharist, 202, 248, 335, 367 

Eucharistic offering, 440 

Euripides, 16, 21, 45, 47, 50-51, 100, 
1 06, 1 08, 132, 184 

Eusebius of Caesarea, 15-17, 23-24, 29, 
36, 38, 172, 174, 177, 183, 1 86, 190, 
196, 228, 230, 231, 336, 347, 353, 

36 i 3695 374> 3 88 > 43 ff- 
Eustathius of Sebaste, 38 
Exorcist formulas, 426 
Ezekielj apocryphal, 154 

Fabian, 177, 374 

Fabius, Bishop of Antioch, 362 

Faith and reason, 1 8, 128 f. 

Fast days, 141 

Father, use of word in prayer, 270, 280, 

.343 . 

Filastnus, 25, 27 

Fire, purifying, 114, 318, 379 

Free will, 182, 203, 222, 250-255, 318, 

33^-339 
Friday, fast day, 141 

Galen, 18 

Germany, 423 

Glaucias, disciple of Peter, 162 

Gloria Patri, 386 

Gnosis, 128 ff. 

Gnosticism, 17 ff., 54, 151 ff. 

God, alone immortal, 454; anthropo- 
morphism, 1 06 ff.; Creator, 46, 51 ff, 
90, 132, 146, 445^.; denial of, 247, 
334; divine punishment remedial, 
not retributive, 160, 444; cf. 114; 
Father wiser than Son, 412; father- 
hood of, 280 ff., 354; first Cause, 94, 
103; foreknowledge of, 182, 248-250; 
goodness not involuntary, 119; im- 
manence of, 216, 217, 289, 358; im- 
materiality of, 193, 194,215,283-286, 
355* 35^; jealous, 398 f.; judgment, 
159, 443; name of, 216, 286-288, 
42 5 f.; needs no sacrifice, 101 ff, 
in ff.; not limited by space, 109 f.; 
providence of, 247, 248, 319, 334; 
relation of Father and Son, 412, 437 
ff.; transcendence of, 189, 210, 248, 
330, 340; unity, 163; vision of, 129, 
136, 427; cf. 402; worshipped at all 
times and in all places, 1 14 ff. 

Grades of hearers, 199, 200, 243, 283, 
291-298, 300, 333 

Gregory Nazianzus, 231 

Gregory of Nyssa, 214, 385, 418 

Gregory Thaumaturgos, 177, 179, 334 

Guiding principle, 311, 376 

Gymnosophists, 68 



Hadrian, 24, 28 

Haematitae, 163 

Harpocrates, god, 26 

Hearing, 116 

Heaven, allegorized as "Christ," 285, 

292, 293, 360 
Heavenly luminaries as living creatures, 

254, 339 
Hebdomad, 129 
Hebrews, interpreted, 414 
Hegesippus, 24 
Hellebore, 108 
Heraclas, 173, 175, 177 
Heracleides, 177, 430 ff. 
Heracleon, 25, 31, 389 
Heracles, 69, 108 
Heraclitus, 46, 49 
Heresy, 151 ff., 187 ff. 
Hennas, 37, 76, 355, 372 
Hermes, 141 
Herodotus, 47-48, 56 
Hesiod, 59, in, 184, 185 
Hesychius, 353, 371 
Hippolytus, 18, 23, 25, 27, 31, 181, 365, 

369, 372-374, 381, 388, 411, 434, 442 
Holy Spirit, 241, 243, 263, 268, 309, 

328, 332, 333 
Homer, 21, 47~4 8 > 59. 106, 159, 184 

Idolatry, use of term in early Church, 

374 
Ignatius of Antioch, 34, 193, 278, 289, 

335, 352, 389 

Images, iO9f; man created in Gods 
image, 148, 445 f.; soul of the just, 
image of God, 102, 126, 133 

Indians, 68 

Intercession, meaning of, 268, 345 

Irenaeus, 24 f., 335, 369, 372, 377, 379 

Ischomachus, 158 

Isidore, 30, 41 

Isis, 26 

Istros, 64 

Jerome, 35, 37, 62, 175, 230, 231, 368, 

373,385,404.431-432 
Jesus, in Gethsemane, 411; death, 413, 

422, 429; descent to Hades, 442; 

resurrection, 440 ff.; human nature, 

417; see also Christ and Logos 

John Chrysostom, 442 
ohn of Damascus, 385 
ovinian, 37 
ustin Martyr, 22, 36, 357, 369; 

theology of, 433 

Justinian, 191, 232, 339, 345, 430 
Juvenal, 108 

Kiss of loyalty, 415 



INDEXES 



Lais, courtesan, 63-64 

Lampis, 159 

Leonides, 171 

Liturgical usage, 386, 440 

Logos, activity of Father, 97; educator, 
96; image of God, 102; incarnation, 
97 ff., 146; independent hypostasis, 
433> 437 f-5 mystical union, 129; 
participation in, 400; pre-existence, 
^9, 433, 437 ff -; Son of God, 94 ff. 

Lord's Prayer, context in Matthew, 
275-280, 329; context in Luke, 242, 
275; texts of in Matthew and Luke, 
2 75 3 35 j treatment of by Origen, 
213-223, 274-322 

Lucian of Samosata, 390 

Lying, medicinal, 126127 

Maccabean martyrs, 389, 407 ff. 

Magi, 45, 62 

Malchion of Antioch, 433 

Mamaea, 388 

Marcellus of Ancyra, 25 

Marcellina, 24 f. 

Marcion, 22, 24, 32, 45 ff., 88, 160, 

162-163, 355, 377, 442 
Marcionites, 190, 200, 221, 222, 336, 

3^2, 377, 378 
Marcosians, 335 
Marcus Aurelius, 337, 339, 366 
Mark, Bishop of Alexandria, 15 
Marriage, 22 ff.; second marriage, 37 f., 

42; superior to celibacy, 138 
Martyrdom, 126, 133 ff., 388-429; 

atoning value, 413, 429 
Mary, perpetual virginity, 154 
Matthias, Traditions of, 52, 145, 163 
Maximin, 182, 388, 423 
Maximus, 432, 441 
Megarians, 164 
Melito, 353 

Menander, 107-108, in 
Methodius, 34 
Millenarian views, 303, 369 
Ministry, see Church 
Minucius Felix, 36, 379 
Monad, 27, 163 
Montanists, 37, 163 
Moses, 18, 23 
"Much speaking," as interpreted by 

Origen, 352, 353 
Musonius Rufus, 33 
Mysticism, of Clement, 38-39; of 

Origen, 176, 186, 187, 208, 209, 391 

Naassenes, 31-32 
Names, nature of, 425 f. 
Nero, 162 
New Birth, 271, 305, 374 



Nicolaitans, 29, 52 
Novatian, 355 
Novatianists, 37 
Numenius, 85, 109 

Oaths, 125, 397 f. 

Obelus, 344 

Odysseus, 19 

Oeneus, 106 

Ophites, 163 

Origen, allegorism, 198, 199; asceti- 
cism, 175, 194-196; characteristic 
ideas of, 184 ff.; conception of 
prayer, 206-213; compared with 
Tertullian, 224-230; condemnation, 
176; confessor, 178; death, 179; head 
of the Catechetical School, 173; 
leaves Alexandria for Caesarea, 177; 
method of composing, 183; ordin- 
ation, 175; orthodoxy, 177-178, 187- 
191,231 2 33, 432 jplatonism of, 192- 
193, 210-212, 2n 287, 330, 353, 
357;\reatment of the Lord's Prayer, 
204; 205, 213-223; writes the De 
Oratione 180-183 

Orpheus, 48 

Orthodoxy, 39, 150 ff. 

Otisia, philosophical term, 298, 2993 
364-367; with reference to Son, 269, 
347, 348 

Pamphilus, 32, 230, 434; whitewashes 

Origen, 432 
Pan, 68 

Pantaenus, i6f,, 172 
Papias, 369 
Paradise, 418 
Patripassianism, 433 
Paul, apostle, circumcised Timothy, 

127; married, 33-34, 64-65; martyr, 

389; taught Theodas, 162 
Paul, a heretic, 190 
Paul of Samosata, 433-434 
Peratici, 163; cf. 414 
Perdix, huckster, 159 
Periousios, 298, 364 
Peripatetics, 335 
Peter, apostle, children of, 64; martyr, 

389; taught Glaucias, 162; wife 

martyred, 133 
Phantasiai, 339 
Pherecrates, in 
Philemon, poet, 107 
Philip, apostle, 51, 64 
Philip, bishop, 453 
Philo of Alexandria, 15, 21, 79, 85, 384, 

4:4, 448 
Philolaus, 48 
Philosophy in Clement, 1 7 ff., 104 



Photius, 19, 175, 232, 235, 431-432 

Phrygian heresy, 163 

Pindar, 48 

Plagiarism of Clement, 20 ff. 

Plato, 20-21, 45, 48-49, 52, 70, 75, 84, 

96, 98, IOO-I06, 109, 115, I2I-I22, 

127, 131, 134-135* i58-i59> 335, 
353, 357, 365> 381 

Pliny the elder, 16, 349 

Pliny the younger, 29 

Plutarch, 51, 339, 365-367 

Polemon, 113 

Poly carp, 149 

Pontianus, 181, 373, 388 

Porphyry, 30, 37, 62, 68, 85, 114, 127 

Prayer, 114!?., isgf., 143 ff.; benefits 
of, 255-258, 263-266; different terms 
for, 206, 207, 266-269, 344-346; 
disposition of mind in, 207-208, 255- 
257, 278, 279, 322, 323, 340, 341, 
352; distinction between euche and 
proseuche, 206, 243-247, 333, 334; at 
eucharist, 434, 440; limited interpre- 
tation of word by Origen, 188, 267, 
268; orientation in, 213, 327, 384, 
385; place of, 324-326, 382, 383; 
posture in, 212, 213, 322-324, 381; 
"pray without ceasing," 209, 261, 
262, 283, 290; subjects of, 213, 327- 
329; three times a day, 262, 343; to 
whom addressed, 187, 188, 191,231- 
233, 269-271, ^ 345-347; Jtee also 
Origen, conception of prayer 

Predestination, 163 

Proclus, 337 

Prodicus, 30, 54, 118, 160, 389 

Property, private, 43-44 

Protoctetus, 388, 393, 418-420 

Purgatory, 114 

Pyrrho, 159 

Pythagoras, 49, 112 

Pythagoreans, 51, 353 

Remedial punishment, 103, 201, 304, 

3i7> 3i8, 378, 379 

Resurrection, 51 
Rufinus, 175, 188, 189, 230, 331-333, 

345, 374, 431-432 
Rule of faith, 151 ff., 444 

Sabellianism, 433 

Sacrifice, inf., 425; in eucharist, 440 

Sarapis, 26 

Saturninus, 22 

Sects, 150 ff. 

Septimius Severus, 171, 173, 391 

Severians, 55 

Severus Alexander, 388 



INDEXES 463 

Sextus Empiricus, 96, 103, 337, 338 
Shadows cast by bodies, 272, 273, 348, 

349 

Sibyl, 47 

Simon Magus, 162-163 
Simon, horseman, 159 
Sin, caused by ignorance and weakness, 

Siricius, Pope, 35 
Sneezing, omen, 107 
Socrates, 49, 353 
Socrates, historian, 37 
Solon, 47 

Sophocles, 384 
Soul, Origen's doctrine, 401, 435-436, 

4535 ascent, 402; blood, 435, 445 ff; 

akin to God, 426; cf. 105; of Christ, 

431,442 
Sphere, 122 

Stobaeus, 105, 366, 367 
Stoics, Stoicism, 33, 105-106, 116, 122- 

123, 131, 138, 150, 158, 339, 356, 365, 

3^6 3 376, 385 
Strabo, 385 
Stupa, 68 
Sun-dials, 273, 349 
Sun worship, 398 
Suspense of judgment, 251, 338 
Symmachus, 340 

Tacitus, 162, 384 

Tatian, 22-23, 36, 62, 77 f., 81, 83, 

216,357,358 

Tatiana, 182, 184, 239, 331, 336 
Tension, 253, 299, 338, 339, 367 
Tertullian, 18, 30, 33, 77, 88, 118, 

224ff., 335, 343>389-39i 
Theatre, 278, 352 

Theoctistus, Bishop of Caesarea, 174 
Theodas, 162 
Theodoret, 25, 28, 30, 365 
Theodotion, 343 
Theognis, 47, 137 
Theophilus, Bishop of Alexandria, 231, 

348, 368 

Theophrastus, 51, 114, 382 
Thracians' idea of God, 106 
Tiberius, 162 

"Timaeus Locrus,'* 365, 366, 382 
Timothy, circumcised, 127 
"Today," Origen's interpretation of, 

302 ff, 370 

Total depravity, 426; cf. 148 
Tradition, apostolic, i6of. 
Transmigration of souls, 46, 112 

"Universalism, 201, 304, 317 
Urban, 181, 373 



464 INDEXES 

"Vain repetitions," 255 

Valentine, 15, 30 ff., 40, 53, 67, 83, 88, 

162-163, 389 
Valentinus, 336, 355 
Vegetarianism, 112 ff. 
Vergil, 384 
Vision of God, 129, 136, 208 

Wednesday, fast day, 141 
Wisdom literature, 21 
Word, see Logos 
Worship, see Prayer 



Xanthus of Lydia, 45 
Xenocrates, 113 
Xenophanes, 381 
Xenophon, 353 
Xerxes, 56 

Zeno, 356, 366, 367 
Zephyrinus, 181, 373, 374 
Zeus, supreme god, 425 
Zoroaster, 30 



MODERN AUTHORS 



d'Ales, A., 224 
Amand, D., 37 
Anonymous Scholar, 235 fT. 
Arnim, H. von, 1 70, 365-367 

Bardenhewer, O., 224 
Bardy, G., 392 
Bauer, W., 363 
Bell, H. I., 15 
Bengel,J. A., 360 
Benson, E. W., 374 
Bentky, R., 236 f. 
Benz, E., 68 
Bessarion, Cardinal, 392 
Bethune Baker, J. F., 348 
Bickel, E., 37 
Bidez, J., 45 
Bigg, G., 336, 339, 354 
Bingham, J., 385 
Blackman, E. C., 378 
Blinkenberg, G., 362 
Boutflower, G. H., 383 
Box, E., 15 
Brady, T. A., 26 
Brooke, A. E., 170 
Burkitt, F. G., 23 
Burnet, J., 382 
Butterworth, G. W., 17 

Capelle, B., 436 
Casey, R. P., 17 
Chadwick, H., 61, 81, 177, 382 
Chadwick, O., 356 
Chase, F. H., 359 
Courcelle, P., 37 
Crehan,J.,436, 442 
Cumont, F., 26, 45 

Dani<lou, 208, 339, 342, 354 
Delarue, 182, 236, 348, 368 



Delehaye, H., 389 
Diels, H., 21, 365, 367 
Dix, G., 346, 375 
Dodd, C. H., 448 
Dolger, F. J., 25, 120 
Duchesne, L., 388 

Faye, E. de, 27, 172, 176, 17^-181, 184, 

200, 336, 338, 339, 356, 367 
Festugiere, A.J., 17 
Fleury, C., 236 
Freese, J. H., 232 
Frere, W, H., 346 
Friichtel, L., 78, 436, 446 

Gale, T., 235 
Geffcken,J., 23 
GheUinck,J. de, 183 
Goguel, M., 29 
Grant, R. M., 23 
Gue"raud, L., 436 

Harnack, A. von, 24, 29, 45, 127, 224 

Harris, J. R., 77 

Harvey, W. W,, 170 

Hautsch, E., 330 

Hefele, C.J., 232 

Hilgenfeld, A., 26-27 

Holl, K. ? 24 

Hort, F.J.A., 39, 364 

Huet, P. D,, 234, 236 

Inge, W. R., 359 

Jackson, B., 332 
Jackson, F. J. Foakes, 215 
James, M. R., 52, 61, 154 
Jebb, R. G., 384 
Jenkins, C., 34 
Julicher, A., 19 



INDEXES 



Kahle, P. E., 23 

Kern, H., 68 

Kirk, K. E., 36 

Kittel, 364. 

Klaffenbach, G., 26, 362 

Klostermann, E., 219, 305, 346, 349 

Koetschau, P., 180 ff., 392, 394, 402, 

405, 414 
Kraft, H., 27 
Kretschmar, G., 436 

Lacey, T., 234 

Lambeck, P., 232 

Lampe, G. W. H., 436 

Lawlor, H. J., 24, 373 

Lawlor, H. J. and Oulton, J. E. L., 

169 ff. 

Lebreton, J., 391 
Leclercq, H., 35, 381, 385 
Leisegang, H., 26 
Liboron, H., 27 

Lightfoot, J. B., 24, 335, 352, 353, 364 
Lipsius, R. A., 26 
Lock, W., 364 
Lommatzsch, C. H. E., 236 
Lovejoy, A. O., 98 
Lubac, H. de, 350 
Lucius, E., 389 
Lutz, G. E., 33 

McNeilc, A. H., 364 

Magie, D., 26 

Manson, T. W., 364 

Mayor, J. E. B., 17, 39, 374, 381 

Meredith, R., 235 

Milton, J., 182, 361 

Molland, .,19 

Moulton, J. H. and Milligan, J., 170, 



Nautin, P., 442 
Nilsson, M, P., 26 
Nock, A. D., 434, 436 

Pctric, Flinders, 362 
Prat, F., 348 
Preisigke, F., 362 
Puech, H. G., 30, 436 



Ratcliff, E. C., 434 
Reading, W., 235, 345, 347, 378 
Resch, A., 151,332 
Richardson, C. G., 432 
Robinson, J. A., 170, 352 
Rohde, E., 28 
Ropes, J. H., 332 

Sagnard, F., 1 7 

Salmon, G., 26 

Sanday, W. and Headlam, A, C., 380 

Scherer, J., 177,4306. 

Schultz, W., 26 

Schurer, E., 28 

Schwartz, E., 81, 434 

Srawley, J. H., 332 

Stahlin, O., 39, 46 

Swete, H. B., 15, 345, 348 

Taylor, A. E., 353 
Telfer, W., 16 
Thackeray, H. St. J., 363 
Thorndike, H., 234 
Toy, C. H., 368 
Trench, R. G., 334, 345 

Usener, H., 28 

Volker, W., at, 38 
Volkmar, G., 26 
Voobus, A., 23 
Voss, L, 233 

Walker, J., 236 
Walzer, R., 18, 36 
Wendland, P., 338 
Westcott, B. F., 184, 234, 383 
Wetstein,J. R., 235 
Whately, R., 358 
Whitham, A. R., 187 
Wilamowitz-Moellendorf, U. von, 28, 

162 

Williams, L, 187 
Wissowa, G., 28 

Zahn, T., 24 
Zeller, E., 376 
Ziegler, K., 20 
Zonaras, L., 234 



Genesis 

1:3 .......... 

288, 289, 358 



.22,190, 

288 



BIBLICAL REFERENCES 

Ge nesis continued 

1:11 288 

1:20 288 

1:24 288 



A.C. 30 



Genesis continued 

1:26 296,445 

1:26-27 296,448 

1:27 401 



466 



INDEXES 



Genesis continued 


Exodus continued 


Numbers 




1-28 


00 efi 8*7 


8-ofi Of2 


OAA 




70 


1:29 


. . . ,^, 50, 07 
56 


8:25,28 (LXX). 


244, 333 


6:1-3 


....245 


2:7 


295,445 


8:30 


245 


6:2,4,6, 7,9, 12 


, *3, l > 


2:8-9 


419 


9:1-12 


245 


19,21 (LXX). 


....247 


2:9 


89, 3OO 


9:12,35 


319 


6:11, 12 (LXX). 


....245 


2:18 


63,78 


9:27 




6:13 


....245 


2:24 


439 


9:27,28 


245 


6:20,21 


246 


3 :i -5 


320 


9:33 


245 


11:4 


....317 


3:8 


....194, 284, 


io:i 


, . . . .319 


1 1 :4-6 


222, 316 


285,291, 


356 


10:17, 18 


245 


11:10 


. . . .316 


3:8-9 


.181,285,356 


n:io 


319 


11:18, 19 


....317 


3:16 


421 


12:2,3,6,15,18. 


303 


11:18-20 


222,317 


3:i9 


294 


16:4 


....258 


11:20 


....317 


3:20 


....70,77,87 


16:12-16 


300 


15:30,31 


....372 


3:21 


85 


19:5 


219, 364 


20:17 


.... 140 


3:22 


89,300 


19:5,6 


298 


20:29 


452 


3:23 


........ .429 


19:6 


396 


23:10 


...-454 


3:24 


4*8 




74 


24:16 


164 


4:5 


320 


20:3 


396 


25:1 


...-397 




320 


20:4-5 


396 


25:2-3 


397 


4:10 
4:16 


429 
194, 285 


20:5 
20:7 


398 
287 




54 


30:1-4 


246 


4:25 


78 


20:12 


86 




....247 


5:5 


453 


20:13 








6:2 


67 


20:14 


.-44,55 


Deuteronomy 




9:1 


56 


20:15 




4:19 


254, 345 


9:3 


56 


20:17 


.--44,73 


4:20 


264 


9: ^ 




21 "2 




6:5 




9:20-23. . . 


320 
395 


21:24 
22:1 


56 
56 


6:7 
7:6 


....144 
....364 


12:3 


72 


22:2O , 


425 


8:2 


3i9 


15:15 


4345 2 


23:2 


3^4 


8:2,3,15 


. . . .223 


17:5 


44*286 


33:13 


396 


8:3 


319 


18:2-6 


198,300 


24:18 




9:9 


. . . .296 


18:11 


239 


30:25 


114 


9:18 


....267 


18:27 


61 


32:8 


397 


11:19 


.... 144 


19:37 


302 


32:11 , 


267 


12:23 


....445 


19:38 


302 


32:32 , 


144 


13:3-4 


----397 


22:1 


375 






13:8 


. . . .101 


25:23 


249 






13:9 


. . . .101 


27:28 


272 


Leviticus 




14:2 


. . . .364 


27:29 


72 


1 1 :3 f. 


163 




....303 


27:41 


320 


n:44 


92 


15:2 


319 


27:41-45.. 


244 


15:18 


79 


15:9 


208, 258 


28:20-22. . 


244,334 


16:29 


303 


16:9 


....303 


39:7 ff..... 


320 


17:11 f, 


375,445 


16:16 


278, 304 


48:16 


325 


19:2. , 


92 


17:3 


....398 






I9:i5 


44 


18:20 


....398 


Exodus 




20:7 


92 


18:22 


....398 


1:7 


158 


20:10 


44, 


21:11-13 


7q 


q:7 


182,331 


2 1 : 1 72 1 


4,iq 


22:22 


. . . .44. 


3:14 


, 287,357 


2q:24, 27 


qoq 


23:1 


87 




, 426 


24:15, 16 


231 


23:1,2 


277 


5:6-14.... 


182,331 


25:4-7; 10-17. - 


303 


23:2 (LXX) . . . . 


351 


7:7 
8:8 


-.73 
> 244 


25:8 ff 
26:12 


303 

285,356 


23:3 
23:6 


278 
280 


8:9 


244 


27:i-3 


245 


23:7,8 


278 


8:16-19,., 


244 


27:17 ff 


303 


23:14 


285, 356 







INDEXES 




467 


Deuteronomy continued 


I Chronicles 


Psalms continued 


26:18 


....364 


29:11 360 


18:18, 19 


380 


27:15 
30:14 194, 


57 
217,289 


II Chronicles 


19:8 427, 
19:9 


448,451 
.... 145 


30:15 


....454 


32:25,26 312 


19:13 


371 


32:2,3 


....287 




20:7 


. . . .264 


32:8 


96 


Esther 


22:22 


. . . .271 


32 :g.... 96, 396, 398, 405 


3:6,7 263 


24:3-6 


130 


32:18 


280 


4:16, 17 263 


25:1 


207, 257 


32:20 


280 


4:17 (LXX in English 


25:1, 2 


256 


32:21 


148 


Apocrypha 13:14. .414 


26:2 


312 


32:21-22 


399 


4:i7a,b (LXX) 267 


26:4,5 


....326 


32:39 


439 


4:1 7k, i (LXX) 267 




411 


32:43 (LXX)... 


270 


9:26-28 263 


28:3 


329 


Joshua 




13:8 (Vulg. and R.V.)267 
14:3 (Vulg. and R.V.) 267 


30 (title) 
30:1 


288 
....288 


5 :I 4 


. . . .274 




31:18 


....288 


10:12 


268 


Job 


33:17 


264 


22:16, 18. ...... 


302 


:i J 44 


34 : 3 216, 


287, 288 


24:14 


....404 




34:7 


325,326 


24:15-18 


....405 


:9~n 321 


34:8 


450 






: 1 2 32 1 


OX * T T 


.... IA; 


Judges 





:2i 144 


34:19. .311, 321, 


380, 423 


2:1114 


.... 146 


'.22 257,321 


35:iO 


. . . .451 


11:31 


....247 


2:4,5 322 


37'14 . 


312 


16:30 


. . . .268 


2:9 321, 381 


38^ 


....450 


I Samuel 
1:9-11 247, 


263, 334 


2:iO 208, 257,322 
3:8 265,344,349 

7:1- ...221,310, 314, 375 


38:5,6 
38:13-14 
39^ 


....329 
-...398 
....423 


i :io, ii 


... .200 


14:4 ** 87 


39^ 


....329 


1:1113 144.3 
2:25 306,310,405 


15:8 97 
19:21 140 


40:6 
42^-3 


309 
395 


9:24 
12:16 
12:16-18 
16:7 


v% 

.... 344 
265, 266 
132 


31:27-28 415 
33:1,31 298,363 
34:16 298,363 
37:14 298,363 


42:6 
42:11-12 
42:12 


395 
395 

395 
406 


II Samuel 


^28 


40:8 (LXX) 319 
40:19 (LXX) ..294,360, 


^l l& .:::'.:: 


.406-407 


7:18-22 


....328 


361 


44:20-21 
44:21 


407 

407 


I Kings 
8:30 


257,341 


Psalms 
1:2 164, 314 


44:22 
44:25 


407 

241 


I Cl * I Q 


... .2^0 


1:4 l6 4 


45:17 


287 


T<2'2 


* *3^6 


4 (title) 345 


48:12 


147 


i; j"i 

17:6 


64 


4:1 321 


48:13 


71 


T^ s 




l8:2I 
19^3 


406 
65 


4:5 112 
4:6 257 
A. ' 7 (Hebrew) 34O 


48:21 


71 


50:10 (LXX).. 
51 *5 


.298,364 
87 


II Kings 




5:3 262,343 




lor 


1:8 


65 


5:9 162 


5i:i7 


101 


i:ioff. 


228 


6:2-3 45 1 


57:4, 5 (LXX). 


353 


4:40 


367 


6:7 83 


57:5 (LXX)... 


279 


20: i ff. 


263 


7 (title) 345 


58:3 


249 


20:6 


343 


7:9 255 


58:3-5 


449 


2 1 : i 


343 


9:11 1 68 


58:4 


159 


22:2 


253 


13:3 448 


58:5.. 


'59 


22:11-13, 1 8, 19 


249 


15:5 66 


58:7,8 


264 


23:3 ff. 


249 


16:10 442 


62:12 


424 




253 


17:30 (LXX)... 310, 375 


66:11 


3i9,38o 



468 



INDEXES 



Psalms continued 


Proverbs continued 


Isaiah continued 


68:33 


-...385 


6:25 


.... 146 


38:19 (LXX). 


343 


69:27 






....407 


40:6-8 


...89,274 


73:13, 14 (LXX) 


. . .198, 


8:9 


....125 


40:10 


424 


301,368 
73:19 (LXX)... 


265 


8:22-30 
9:10 


97 

....137 


40:13 
40:15 


164 




....161 


10:4 


66 


42 : 1 8 


449 


78:25 


300 


10:19 


279 


43:2 


114 


82:7 


....277 


10:31 


....314 


43:3-4 


402 


89 (title) (LXX) 


.-..335 


11:24 


66 




..417,439 


90:1 

QO'/t 


....249 


13:8 


.66,313 


45:23 
4.6 : 1 1 


324 
80 




....145 


13:12 


89 


46:12 




9^13 


265,311 


14:29 


....424 


49:8 


423 


92:13 


....414 


15:17 198,200,298 49:14 


348 


94 :I 


....131 


15:26 


.-.-397 


49:22,23 


270 


Q4, "II 


| (J T 


I f\ "3O 


308 


CQ T 


82 


**;' 8 


OQ2 


TQ-T/t 


.... 71 


O . Q 


81 


98:8 


....405 


19^7 


65 


51:7 


395 


QQ"6 


. .263 


2O *Q . . . 


4^LQ 


co-2. . ... 


8q 




....328 


20:25 


....2 4 6 




139 


104:4 


....402 


20:27 


....116 


55^2 


405 


104:15. . 


... .301 


21 iq 






8* 


104:24 


238 


22:26,27 


....307 


efi-q-c 


86 






104:26 


360 


23:5 


....404 


57:15 


100 


IO7:2O 


296 


24:32 (LXX) . . . 


312 


58:9 


.-257,341 


IO9:i 


....253 


30:9 


312 


61:2 


278 


109:4 (LXX)... 


....348 






62 : n 


424 


109:7,8 


....250 


Ecclesiastes 






422 


109:11, 12 


288 


2:14, 


. . . .4,^1 




86 


110:1 
111:9 






....407 
-.-.452 


&:::::::: 


I2 4 
, .209,283 


116:13 
116:15 


....412 
....412 


5:2 
5:5 


....246 


Jeremiah 




118:14 


410 






1:5 


455 


119:2 


94 


Song of Solomon 




3: 4. 


82 






1 19:9 f- 


55 


1:4 


....450 


4:3 


140 


119:18 


....449 


2:9 


....376 


4 :I 9 


45 1 


119:66 


....115 


2:9, 10. 


199,314 


5:8 


88, go 


123:1 207, 


256, 285 


2:10-11 


....413 


6:15 


3% 


141:2. .120,262, 


323, 450 






7:22,23 


.257,341 


14^7 


....451 


Isaiah 




10:2 , 








145:18 


. ... 124 


1:2 280, 


298, 363 


10:15 


383 


148:2 


....199 


1:12 


326 


11:20 


255 


148:3 


....254 


1:15 


....326 


12:1 












4:14 


3^8,379 










Proverbs 






.... 1 40 


14:22 




1:14 


90 


6-1 


455 


15:1 


-.263,343 


1:15-18 


90 


6:3 


144 


16:19 - 


4*4 


1:17 


....319 


10:3 


....383 


17:10 


..132,255 


1:18 




1 1 :2 


249 


20:14 


...87,444 


3:3 


.....66 


14:9 ff. 


405 


23:23,24 


......341 




300, 367 


20:2 


65 


23:24 


..258,284 


3:23 
3:27 


....450 


25:8 
27:12 
28:9-11 


264 
260 
...-393 


Lamentations 
4:20 


454 


4:23 


....313 


29:13 


....396 


Ezekiel 




6:24::::::::::: 


146 


38:1 ff.'. ....... 


292 
263 


10:1 


455 
455 







INDEXES 






469 


Ezekiel continued 


Malachi continued 


II Maccabees continued 


18:4 101, 


453, 454 


3:15 


57 


1 5" I 4 


259,342 


33:6 


452 


4:2 


385 


15:15 


259 










15:36. ..... 


263 


Daniel 




II Esdras 








1:10 


55 


5:35 


.87 


Matthew 




2:44 


360 






1:9, 10 


263 


3 :I ff- 


4H 


Tobit 




3:2 


360 


3:24, 49, 50 (LXX) .263, 3:1, 2 


267 




243 


265 




3:16,17 259,325, 




3:7 


301 


3:25 (LXX).... 


... .267 


12:8 


259 


3:8 


447 


3:27 


.... 264 


12:12 259, 


325 


4:1-11 


322 


3:49, 50 (LXX). 


228 


12:15 


259 


4:3 


258 


3:50 (LXX).... 


343 






4:9 


414 


6:10 


,209,262 


Judith 




4:10 


398 


6:16, 22 


262 


8:26,27 311, 


376 


4-=" 


260 


7:H 


360 


13:4-10 


263 


4:16 . . 


120 


9:21 


124 






5:i ? 2 


2/5 


12:3 


285 


Esther 




5:4 


423 






13:14 


414 


5:8 


100, 104, 129 


Hosea 








5:9 


158 


7:6 


322 


Wisdom of Solomon 




5:10-12 


395 


10:12 (LXX).. 


260 


1:7 


2 eg 


5:I 6 


56 




.243^303 


2:14 


?fv? 




.61,241,298 






2:24 


97 


5:20 


55,129 


Joel 




3:6 


,418 


5:21 




2:32 


411 


7:23 


429 


5:23,24.... 


240 






7:2^ 


286 




56 


Amos 




8:13 


363 


5:25,26 




8:11 


298 


8:21 


..42 


5:27 


131 






n-TQ rfi _ . . . Qfifi. 


ooft 


c .07 f 


70 


Jonah 


9:15... 192, 330, 394, 427 


5:28... 44, 54, 61,84, 146 


1:17 


.263,265 


9:16 , 


.2^8 


5:34 


397 


2:1 


.263,265 


11:24 , 


.248 


5:34> 35"-- 


284, 285, 292 


2:i, 2 


264 


I5TO ... 


.414 




397 


2:1,2,3 


.188,268 


16:28 323, 


,381 


5:37 


125 




263 






5:42 


52,65 


4:1,2 


265 


Ecclesiasticus 






56,i47 






4:11 


TfiT 


5:45 


, 148-149, 282 


Habakkuk 




18:20 


.383 




145,150 


3:1, 2 (LXX).. 


345 

. 188, 268 


35:17 (LXX 32:21). 


.116 


6:2 
6:2,5 


276,277,313 
350 


3:2 (LXX).... 


345 


Baruch 




6:5 


276-279,352 




345 


3:10 


..82 


6:5 ff. 269,276 










6:5-3 


329 


Haggai 




Susanna 




6:6 124, 


208,278,279 


1:6 


66 


42 1 16, 248 


6:7 


, . . . 124, 240, 










255, 279, 


280 


Zechariah 




Bel and the Dragon 




6:8.... 248, 


274, 279, 280 


3:1 


.258,301 


22 ff 


.414 


6:9 


209,269, 


6:12 


385 


33 


.1228 


280-284, 


286, 290, 347 


7:10 








6:9-13 


,214,275,329 






II Maccabees 




6:10 


289-291, 


Malachi 




6:7 


.408 


294>3 I 4>: 


360 


1:3 


249 


6:19 


.407 


6:11 


295,298,305 


1:6 


280 


6:23 


.407 


6:12... 145, 305, 370,371 


1:11 


324 


6:24-28 


^Ott 


6:12,14.... 


256 


2:17 


58 


6:30-31 


.408 


6:13 - 


....310,314, 




318,379 


15:13, 14 


-259 


315, 320, 


322 



470 



INDEXES 



Matthew continued 


Matthew continued 


Matthew continued 


6:14 


149 


15:9 


82 


26:64 


, 291 


6:19 


81,294 


16:19. . . 


162 


27:59 


44 1 


6:20 


293 


16:24-25 


400 


28:15 


302 


6:21 


142 


16:25. . . 


101 


28:16, 18... 


293 


6:24 


52,77 


16:26-27 


401 


28:18 


218, 293 


6:33 


..240,272,331 


16:28... 


360 


28:20 


293 


6:34 


172 


17:25- 


269 






7:6 




18:3.... 


81 


Mark 




7:7 


66 


i8:6f. .. 


9 1 


!:35 


262 


7:7,8.... 


258 


18:10... 


261, 306 


3:16 


286 


7:9 


258 


18:11... 


84 


3:17 


422 


7:11 


258 


18:20. . . 




3:22 


272 


7:13,14.. 


277 


18:22. . . 


148 




428 


7:14. ..153,278,413,424 
7 :I 6 55,6o 


18:23-35 
18:28... 


308 
308 


4:20 


448 
428 


7:16,20. . 


309 


18:33..., 


308 


5:29-32. . . . 


450 


7:18 


315 


1 8:34, 35 


308 


7-21 


376 


7:2 i.. 95, 


97,98, 141, 161 


18:35..., 


255 


8:34-37.... 


401 


7:24-27.. 


427 


19:3-9- 


62 


8:38 


416,419 


8:12 


92 


19:5 ..... 


439 


9:4 . . 


Q T 


8:22 


5i 


19:6 


61,63,79 


10:18. .190, 


271, 348,398 


9:6 


269,309 


19:11 f. . , 


40,63 


10:30 


43 


9:38 


240 


19:12. . . . 


40,174 


10:38 




10:5 


90,415 


19:17. . . . 


,..117, 119,130 


I 1:12-14, 21 


327 


10:10 


172 


19:19 


125 


1 1 -.2 1 


384 


10:16 


146 


19:19-21. 


66 


1 1 -.23 


384 


10:17-23. 


415 


19:27-29. 


403 


11:25. .208, 


241,257,332 


10:20 


420 


19:28. . . . 


291,354 


12:25 


44 


10:22, . 
10:28-33. 


421 
416 


19:29.... 
20:22. . . . 


403-404 
4ii 


12:27 
12:30 


306 


10:29 


319,380 


21:12. . . . 


384 


13:11-13... 


415 


10:30 


261,451 


21:22. . . . 


4n 


13:18 


240 


10:32 


417 


21:33. . - 


140 


14:36 


. . . .411,412 


10:32-33. 


399 


22:30. ... 


62,404 


14:38 


240,315,322 


10:33.... 


4 J 9 


22:32 


271 


14:62 


291 


10:34.... 


419 


23:6 


157 


15:46 


441 


10:37.... 


. .154,406,420 


23:9 


81 






10:39.... 


420 


23:14.... 


162 


Luke 




1I: 9 


243 


23:32 


399 


1:13 


267 


11:15 


449 


23:33 


301,447 


1:78 


327 


1 1 : 1 8 f . . . 


64 


24:13--.. 




2:13 


274 


11:25 


269 


24:19.... 


6 3 


2:29 


452 


11:27 


130 


24:20 


240 


2:52 


393 


11:30 


414 


24:27.... 


385 


3"-7 


301 


12:8 


58 


24:37-39. 


63 


3:8 


447 


12:31 
12:36 


--306,397-398 


25:1 ff. .. 
25:23 


139 
132 


4:3 


322 
258 


12:39 


82 


25:26 


308,371 




278 


12:50 


95*97 


25:34- - - 


251, 292 


4:25 


266 


1 3 :3 ff. . . 


428 


25:34^ . 


105 


6:12 


262 


137 


140 


25:35 f... 


65 


6:23 


395 


13:20 


153 


25:35-40. 


260 


6:28 


240 


13:20-21 . 


428 


25:40 


65 


6:30 


52 


13:23.... 


428 


26:24 




6=35 


258,259 


13:25 


448 


26:29 
26:39 


422 
412 


6=38 

6:40 


399,400 
77 


13:47.... 


302 


26:41. . . . 


240,314, 


6:46 


. . . .161, 164 


15:2 


82 


315*322 


*,376 


6:48-49.... 


427 



INDEXES 



471 



Luke continued 




Luke continued 


John continued 


7:2,5>9 


278 


17:20,21 . . . 


194,217,289 


6:27,28... 


296 


7:5.. 


35 1 


17:21 


....290,358 


6:28,29.. . 


296 


8:5 ff. 


428 


17:31 


153 


6:32 


296,361 


8:13 


428 


17:32 


153 


6:32,33... 


296 


8^5 


428 


17:33 


401 


6:34,35... 


296 


8:18 


327 


18:1 


....258,342 


6:35 


361 


8:45-46 


450 


18:1,2 


258 


6:40 


-95,97,98 


9:23-25 


401 


18:8 


63 


6:51... 258 


,296, 298-300 


9:26 


416 


18:19 


398 


6:53-57. . . 


297 


9:60 


51 


19:26 


128 


6:58 


297 


9:62 


154 


20:35 


8r 


7:35 


260 


10:2 


240 


20:36-. . 129, 


143, 147, 274 


7:38 


223,322 


10:18 


.218,294 


20:38 


271 


8:12 


422 


10:19 


215,419 


21:14-19. . . 




8:33 f-..-. 


146 


10:22 


164 


21:36 


342 


8:34 


P. . 


10:27 


259 


22:27 


260 


8:37 


420 


uri 


206, 242, 


22:29 


360 


8:39 


420 


262,269,275, 


320 


22:40. .221, 


24, 3*5, 322 


10:1 ff. ... 


162 


lira 


269,281, 


22:42 


412 


10:16 


260 


286, 289,290 


347 


22:69 


291 


10:30 


279,439 


11:2,3 


291 


23:46 


44 1 


11:25 


420 


11:2-4 214 


,275,329 


23:53 


441 


1 1 '.42 


2IOj 262 


n:3 295 


, 298, 305 


24:45 


161 


11:52 


260 


1 1 '.4 


256, 305, 






12:25 


.420 


308,310,315, 


320 


John 




12:31 


272 


11:5,6 


258 


1:1 


289,302 


12:32 


429 


n:8 


258 


:i~3 


437 


13:1 


283 


11:9, 10 


258 


-.3 


103,438 


13:3 


283 


11:1 1 


2^8 


"Q 


327 


T Q '*%*% 


86 


11:13 


258 


:ii 




14^ 


..98,129,150 


11:20 


360 


:I2 


136, 281, 282 


14:6 


454 


11:40 


55 


:i3 


67 


14:12, 28. . 


284 


11:50 


251 


:i4 


...278,289, 


I4:iy 


122 


1 1 -.52 


162 


293,297, 




14:23 


....279, 283, 


12:4-9 


416 


:i4, 17.... 


282 


289, 355 




12:7 


261 




102 


14:27 


419 


12:8 


417 


:26 


341 


14:28 


190,283 


12:8-12 




:42 


286 


14:30 


272 


12:16 20 


66 


1:51 


. . ., 260 


1^:14. .... 


96 


12:31 


.240,331 


3:6 


80 




239,330 


12:33 


293 


3:12 


....240,331 


15:15 


96, 104, 


12:49-50 


419 


3:29 


274 


132,136, 


143,417 


12:50 


4i3 


S^ 1 


294 


15:18 


.422 


13:25 


284 


4:14 


l6l,223,322 


15^9 


294,421 


14:20 
14:26 85 


83 

,144,420 


4:34....... 

4:35,36.... 


292 
266 


16:11 


283,284 
272 


14:27 


i44 


4:36 


139 


16:23,24. , 


191,270 


14:33 


144 


5:24 


422 


17:1 


119,262 


15:7 


259 


5:31 


127 


17:3 


.119,139,190 


15-12,13 


364 


5:39 


94 


17:4 


119,292 


16:12 


54 


5:41-44 


142 




139 


16:13 


..52,139 


5:44 


.,..276,313 


17:17 


139 


16:19,22-24. . - 




6:10 


314 


17:19 


1 19 


16:19,25 


277 


6:ir 


....297,361 


17:21-22.. 


421 


16:23 


452 


6:13 


314 


17:23 


119 


17:2 


91 


6:24 


295 


18:37 


127 


17:3,4 


308 


6:26 


-295 


20:17 


284,443 


17:20 


360 


6:27 


.81,212,295 


20:23 


.220,269,309 



472 



INDEXES 



John continued 


Romans continued 


Romans continued 


20:31... 


350 


5:12 


70 


11:34 


97,239 


21:19. . . 


429 


5:14 


70 


12:1 


240 






6:2 


75,453 


12:2 


282 


Acts 




6:9 


44 1 


12:6 


272 


1:7 


63 


6:10 


453 


13:7,8 


....305 


1:16,20. 


250 


6:12 


290,291 


13:8 


....307 


2:1,44.. 


325 


6:13 


74 


13:9 


....161 


2* T A. 




(\* T A T C 


6q 


10:1014, 


67 


2:21 


260 


0.14 15 

6:16 


54 


14:2 200, 


297, 300 


2:27 


442 


7*-2 


77,78 


T/f'O 


64. 






2 *^iO 


2^6 287 


7. A 


7q 80 




80 


2:47.... 


285 


7^ 


43,75 


14:8 


....298 


5:41 .... 


395 


7H2 


79 


I4MO 


....307 


y'SQ- 


253 


7^3 


79 


I4:i7 


..62,65 


7 "60 


1 88 260 ^4.6 




7K 


I4.*2 I 


80 






7:20 


75 


l6:2O 


....419 


9:5 


253 


7:22 


445 


l6:27 


329 


10:1, 9, 


11-15, 24, 34, 


7^3 


121 






35 


302 


7^3 f- 


---75 


I Corinthians 




10:9-11. 


209,262 


7^4 


48,394 


1:5 


273,312 


10:43... 
10:45... 


267 


S^ 


75 
76 


1:10 
1:18 


326,447 
....285 


1 1 "2 


267 


8-6 


AO7 


1 "2A . . 


. . . .q? 




302 


8:7 


310 




..253 


13:9 


286 


8:8 


138 


1:30 103, 


238, 289 


14:22. . . 


311 


8:9-10 


76 


2:6 


199,279 


I5*.8. . . . 


320 


8:iof. 


75 


2:9 


304 


16:3.... 


127 


8:12-14 


76 


2:iO 


242,332 


16:11 . . . 


364 


8:13 


264 


2:il 


239,442 


16:25... 


262 


8:14 


271,309 


2:12, 13 


-.-239 


17:24... 


109 


8:!5 


....76,146, 


2:15 


309 


18:24 ff. 
20:28. . . 


306 


258, 271, 
8:16 


28l 


*:[ 6 


239,303 
393 


21:23... 


246,334 


8:16,17.... 


282 


3:1-3 


....297 


22:20. . . 


253 


8:18 


3934 I 7 


3:6 


140 






8:20 


96 


3:9 


428 


Romans 




8:20-21 


398 


3:10 


....275 


i-3 


417,438 


8:21 


402 


3:11-12 


418 


1:20 




8:26... 154, 


239,241,242 


3:12 


400 


1:22-24. 


315 


8:26,27 


206,241,242 


3:16 


75>'45 


'23,24. 




8:27 


255 


3:17 


313 


:24, 26, 


28 319 


8:28 


116,320,380 


3:22 


....305 


:25. . . . 


398 


8:29 


116,336 


4:9 


306,405 


:2o s 27. 


3i5,3i8 


8:29,30 


249 




312 


:26 3 28 . 


316 


8:37 


242 


4-' I 5 


.86,127 


28 . 


3i5,3i8 


9=3 


144 


4:19 


....161 


2:1 


152 


9=8 


420 


5:3,4 


....326 


2:6 


424 




....116,249 


5:4 


326, 383 


2:24 


. . qi 


q:i2 


24,q 


5:7 


qo 


2:25 


127 


9:20 


* 
306 


^q ...... .... 


qi 


2:29 


127, 142 


10:2. ...... 


q6 


5:1 1 


go 


3 : 2 


164 


10:5 


129 


5:12 


....44B 




57 


10:8 




0:1 


147 


3:21.... 


94 


10:10 


282,396 


6:2 


147,411 


3:30.... 

4:12 ... 


w 

267 


10:12,13... 
1 1 :22 


265 


6:3 
6:6 


....148 
147 


4:16 f. .. 


44 


11:32 


99 


6:7 


....148 


5-'3~5"- 


423 


1 1 :33 


303 


6:8... 


....148 



INDEXES 



473 



I Corinthians continued 


I Corinthians continued 


II Corinthians continued 


6:9 


149 


12:8 


290 3 398 


6:2 


423 


6:9-10... 


444 


12:11 


272 


6:3 ff. 


423 


6:9-11. .. 


92 


12:26 


26O 


6:3-10 


- 424 


6:11 


H9 


13:2 


142 


6:12 


380 


6:12 


58,149 


13:3 


130 


6:14,15.... 


, 291 


6:13 


62,91, 149 


13:6 


332 


6:14-16. . . . 




6:15 


, 264 


13:7 


137 


- * 
6:15 


359 


6:16 


, . . .91, 150,399 


13:9,10,12 


290 


6:16 


72, i94> 


6:17 


,..218,292,439 


13:10 


290 


285, 291, 


356 


6:18 


, 82, 150 


13:12 


, .20, ioo, 


6:16-18.... 


74, 


6:19 


75,133 


129, 136, 259. 


. 402, 454 




69,74 


7:1 f. .... 


5 


14:6 


130 


9:14 


238 


7:2 


64 


14:15 


.242,261 


10:3 


264 


7:3 


9i,307 


14:19,28,35... 


384 


10:5 


101,298 


7:5 


35, 


15:9 


254 


10:18 


418 


64, 76. 


77. 8*. QT. 2/10. 




2^4 


1 1 '2 . 


74 


255, 307, 325, 332, 383 


15:12 ff 


441 




....74,77,84 


7:6 


88,325 


jc *2^ 


441 


1 1 " 1*3 


4,1 


7:7 


. . . QO 


15:23-25,28. . . 


2QO 


1 1 : 1 1; , 




7:8 


71,80 


15^4 


2QI 


11:23-25. . . 


312 


7:8-12... 


37 


15:24,28 


217 


11:28,29.., 


260 


7:9 


,..40,42,78,85 


15:26 


2gi 


12:2 


238,402 


7:10-12. , 


91 


15:28 


. 190,217 


12:2,3 


282 


7:i4 


62,80,91 


15:32 


423 


; 


.238, 241,402 


7:22 


77 


15:34 


88 


12:6,7 


239 


7:24 
7:27 


64,86 


15:35 
15:44 


185 


12:7 


254,312 


7:29 


133 


15:49 


209, 282, 






7:32 


82 283, 285, 292-294, 419 


Galatians 




7:32-36.. 


86 


15:50 


-.89,295 


1:4 


289 


7:33 


86 


15:53 


291 




249,253 




82 


15:55 


2QI 


2 : 1 1 f 


29 


7:35 


....71,101,133 






2:12 


267 




76. 78 






2* TO 2O 


QO 


7:39 f..., 




II Corinthians 




2:2O 


401 


8-1 


161 


lie. 


42^ 


O*Q 


89 


8-7 


161 


I "7 


. . . .42^ 


3- j Q 24, 


99 


9:5 


65 


1:12 


407 


3:24 


21,149 


9:18 


139 


2:15 


285 


3:26 


271 


Q'lQf 


127 




450 


3:28 


84 


9:21 




3:18 207 


,256,447 


3:29 


2 
146 


9:25 


88 


4:6 


I2O 


4^,2 


281 


g:26. ... 


427 


4:7 


394 


4:1, 3 


271 


9^7 


88 


4:8 


.321,380 


4:4 


281,417 




161 


4:8,9 


312 


4:5 


281 


10:3 


161 


4:10 


144 


4:6 


241 


10:12. . . 


42 


4:16 


70,445 


4:6,7..... 


271 


10:13 


...221,311,312 


4^7 


394 


4:9 


146 


10:21 ... 


422 


4:17-18 


429 




303 


10:22. . . 


148 


4:18 


425 


4^9 


..86,282,451 






5*2 


xco 




59 


11-3 


45i 


"* 
54 


394,453 


5:17 


.144,221,310 


11:4,5.. 
11:18... 


384 


5:6 


455 
395,455 


ylg'aa"" 


291 
353 


11:19. , . 


0*70 


5^0 

5*1 A. 


-.69,307 

OAT 


5:22 
6:2. , 


265,291 
, 42 


12. 1, 4. . 
12:3 


2 7 2 
190,281 


5^5 




6:6-10 


350 


12:7 


272 




69 


6:8 , 


277 



474 



INDEXES 



Ephesians 


Philippians continued 


I Timothy continued 




2AQ 


3*21 24.1 


282 


OM f. 


76 


I* A. 


Q7 CICZ 


-* 1 ^'Jr 1 , 






82 


I IA. R 






..64 




64 




A27 




4-1 Q 


A: i c; 


80 


I '21 


TA6 


4/8 f. 






64 


I '22 


8q 


4*I<? 


QAQ 




80 




H9 


*a 
4:18 101 


,240 




371 


r> Q 




4." I Q 


oor* 


CVQ f. 


gc 


O'C 


6O 




^ 


5?4f .. 


82 


2:7 


201,304 


Colossians 






349 


2:8 


99 


*5 


-313 


6:16 


454 


2:10 


306 


:i5 282, 


293, 


6:18,19... 


278 


2:11 


127 


399>4 I 7,43 8 




6:19 


103 


2:15 


72 


:i6 


.274 


6:20 


....118,443 


2:20-22. . . 


422 




0*1 






3:10 


230 




.4l8 


II Timothy 




3:14 


452 


2:2. 


. IO3 


2:5 


394 


3:14,15... 


324 


2:3 103,208 


,2 7 8 


3 :4 


277 


3:15 


403 


2:9 


.284 


3:16 


159 


3:17 


.........278 


2:10 


.284 






3:20 


.252,286,304 


2:11 


60 


Titus 




4:6 


130 


2:14 


.307 


1:6 


82,91 


4:13.. -99> 


114, 136, 147 


2:15 


.423 


1:10 


267 


4*IO 


. JOO 


2:18 


. .64 


j ;i K. 


Q I 


4:20-24. . . 


53 


2:19 


397 


2:12 


41 


4:22 


101 


2:23 




2:14 


364 


4:24 


84, 101 


3:1-3 


. . OO 






4:27 


400 


3:3-4 


455 


Hebrews 




4:30 


306 


3:5 


.291 


1:1 


155 


5:1-4 


53 


3:5-6 


..60 


1:3 


102, 130 


5:2 
5:3 


240 

313^444 


3:8 
3:8-10 


^ 


[: 6 7 


27O 
4O2 


5:5 




3:9 


.448 


1 17, 14 


342 


5:5-11 


53 


3:9,io 


296 


1:14 


300 


5:23 


89 


3:10 


.282 


2:9 


454 


5:27 


277 


4:n 


.267 


2:il 


72,271 


5:32 


80 






2:12 


191,271 


6:2 


294 


I Thessalonians 




2:17 


191,258,270 


6:11, 12. . . 


321 


2:4 


137 


3:4 


238 


6: 1 2 


104, 146, 196, 




.301 


3;c 


06 


218, 221, 


292,293,311 


4:i7 


.129 


3^4 


400 


6:16 


223,322 


5:i7 209, 


261, 


4:3 


251 






262, 283, 290 




4:9 


304 






5:23 32,72 


,442 


4^2 


114,404,419 


Philippians 








4:14 98, 100 


,121,309,402 


1:20-24. . . 


70 


II Thessalonians 




4^5 


271 


1:23 


452 


2 .'4, 9 


.247 


5:1 


413 


2:6 


437,445 






5:2 


3 10 


2:7 


284 


I Timothy 






393 


2:8 


283,293 


i:9 


99 


5:12-14..., 


200, 297, 300 


2:9 


429 


2:1 187,204,206,267 


5^3 


199 


2:10, ..... 


324 


2:8 255, 


2^6, 


5;iA, , 




2:15 


.........285 


323, 324, 34<> 




6:1 


217,290 


3^3 


290,329,387 


2:8-10 


.240 


6:4-6 


372 


3:14 


99 


2:9,10 


.256 


6:8 


140 


3:i9 


92 


2:15 


. .82 


6:18 


96 


3:20 85, 114, 
209, 283, 293, 294 


3:2 
3:2-4 


..82 
-.91 


7:20,21 .... 
7:21 


270 
348 



INDEXES 



475 



Hebrews continued 


I Peter 


I John continued 


7:24 


413 


1:3,23... 


271 


3:3 


59 


8:1 


419 


1:6-7.... 




3:8 


. . . .215,282 


8:3 


.270,271,413 


1:10 


94 


3:9 


146, 281, 282 


9:13 


4 J 3 


1:14-16. . 


92 


3^4 


422 


9:14 


67 


1:17 


124 


3:16 


422 


9:25 


117 


1:18,19.. 


306 


3:21 


268 


9:26 


.251,304,370 


1:19 ... 


401,429 


4: i ff. 


23 


10:1 


303 


1:21 f. . . . 


92 


5:16 


220,310 


10:4 


4*3 


2:3 


450 


5:20 


314 


10:12 




2:5 


422 






10:26-30. . 


372 


2:9 


. . 114, 130,364 


Jude 




10:32-36. . 


424 


2:11 


54,3*0 


8-16 


45 


11:5 


147 




74 






11:13 


..100,142,143 


2 : 1 5 f. ... 


74 


Revelation 




11:16. ... 


294 


2:21 


350 


1:20 


260,285 


12:2 


98,419 


3^9 


55 


2:23 


255,424 


12:7 


129 


5:5 


93 


3:20 


301,368 


12:15, 16. 


320 






4 : 9 


413, 421 


12:28 


274,349 


II Peter 




5:9 


306 


13:8 


303 


1:10. 


J 35 


9^ 


453 






2:20-22. . 


372 


12:9 


301,368 


James 








13:8 


251 


1:13 


375 


I John 




17:8 


251 


2:22 . . 


128 


1*1 


Acr\ 


17:14.. . . . 


07 


2:23 


303 


i:6f. .... 


54 


20:4 


4*3 


2 '.24 


443 


2:1 


258,271 


20:4-6 


369 


4=1 




2:4 


60 


20*12 


Q2 












, 42 1 


20:1^ 


Q2 


c-8 


on I 


2'I7 


OQA 


21 *27 


92 


5=12 


135 


a:i8f. ... 


::.::..:::: It 


22:12 


424 




266 


2:22-23. , 


422 


2:17 


161 




132184 



a 



