THE LIBRARY OF CHRISTIAN 
CLASSICS 



GENERAL EDITORS 


JOHN BAILLIE 

Principal, New College, 
Edinburgh 


JOHN T. McNEILL 

Auburn Professor of Church History, 
Union Theological Seminary, 
New York 


HENRY P. VAN DUSEN 

President, Union Theologic^ Seminary, 
New York 



THE LIBRARY OF CHRISTIAN CLASSICS 

Volume 

I. Early Christian Fathers, Editor: Cyril C. Richardson, 
Washburn Professor of Church History, Union Theological 
Seminary, New York. 

II. Alexandrian Christianity, Editors: Henry Chadwick, Fellow 
and Dean of Queens’ College, Cambridge; J. E. L. Oulton, 
Professor of Divinity, Trinity College, Dublin. 

III. Christology of the Later Fathers, Editor: Edward Rochie 
Hardy, Professor of Church History, Berkeley Divinity 
School, New Haven, Connecticut. 

IV. Cyril of Jerusalem and Nemesius of Emesa, Editor: William 
Telfer, Master of Selwyn College, Cambridge. 

V. Early Latin Theology, Editor: S. L. Greenslade, Van 
Mildert Professor of Divinity, University of Durham. 

VI. Augustine \ Earlier Writings, Editor: J. H. S. Burleigh, 
Professor of Ecclesiastical History, New College, Edin- 
burgh. 

VII. Augustine: Confessions and Enchiridion, Editor: Albert 
Cook Cutler, Professor of Theology, Perkins School of 
Theology, Southern Methodist University, Dallas, Texas. 

VIII. Augustine: Later Works, Editor: John Burnaby, Fellow of 
Trimty College, Cambridge. 

IX. Early Medieval Theology, Editor: George E. McCracken, 
Professor of Classical Languages, Drake University, Des 
Moines, Iowa. 

X. A Scholastic Miscellany: Anselm to Ockham, Editor: Eugene R. 
Fairweather, Associate Professor of Dogmatic Theology 
and Ethics, Trinity College, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, Canada. 

XI. Nature and Grace: Selections from the Summa Theolo^ca of 
Thomas Aquinas, Editor: A. M. Fairweather, Lecturer 
in Philosophy, University of Edinburgh. 

XII. Western Asceticism, Editor: Owen Chadwick, Fellow of 
Trinity Hall, Cambridge. 

XIII. Late Medieval Mysticism, Editor: Ray G. Petry, Professor 
of Church History, The Divinity School, Duke University, 
Durham, North Carolina. 



4 


LIST OF TITLES 


XIV. Advocates of Reform: From Wychf to Erasmus, Editor: 
Matthew Spinka, Waldo Professor of Church History, 
Hartford Theological Seminary, Hartford, Connecticut. 

XV. Luther: Lectures on Romans Editor: Wilhelm Paugk, Pro- 
fessor of Historical Theology, Federated Theological 
Faculty, Chicago Theological Seminary, Chicago, Illinois. 

XVI, Luther: Early Theological Works, Editor: T. F. Torrance, 
Professor of Christian Dogmatics, New College, Edinburgh. 

XVII. Luther and Erasmus on Free Will, Editor: E. Gordon Rupp, 
Lecturer in Modem Church History, University of 
Cambridge. 

XVIII. Luther: Letters of Spiritual Counsel, Editor: Theodore 
G. Tappert, Schieren Professor of the Synod of New York 
and New England Christian History, Lutheran Theo- 
logical Seminary, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 

XIX. Melanchthon and Bucer, Editor: F. J. Taylor, Vicar of 
St. Andrew’s and Lecturer at Wycliffe Hall, O^rford. 

XX Calvin: Institutes of the Christian Religion, Editor: John T. 

XXL McNeill, Auburn Professor of Church History, Union 
Theological Seminary, New York. 

XXII. Calvin: Theological Treatises. Editor: J. K. S. Reid, Professor 
of Theology, Leeds University. 

XXIII, Calvin: Commentaries and Letters Editor: Joseph Harou- 
tunian, Cyrus H. McCormick Professor of Systematic 
Theology, McCormick Theological Seminary, Chicago, 
Illinois. 

XXIV. Z^ingli and Bullinger, Editor: G. W. Bromiley, Rector of 
St. Thomas’ Episcopal Church, Edinburgh. 

XXV. Spiritual and Anabaptist Writers, Editors. George Huntston 
Williams, Associate Professor of Church History, The 
Divinity School, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massa- 
chusetts; Angel M. Mergal, Professor of Theology, 
Evangelical Seminary of Puerto Rico, Rio Piedras, Puerto 
Rico, 

XXVI. English Reformers, Editors: R. D. Whitehorn, Professor 
of Church History, Westminster College, Cambridge; 
Norman Sykes, Dixie Professor of Ecclesiastical History, 
University of Cambridge. 



VOLUME VIII 


AUGUSTINE: 
LATER WORKS 




THE LIBRARY OF CHRISTIAN CLASSICS 


Volume VIII 


AUGUSTINE: 

LATER 

WORKS 


Selected and translated 
with Iniroductions by 

JOHN BURNABY 

Regius Professor of Divinity, 
University of Cambridge 


PHILADELPHIA 

THE WESTMINSTER PRESS 



Published simultaneously in Great Britain and the United States of America 
by the S C M. Press, Ltd,, London, and The Westminster Press, Philadelphia 


First published MCMLV 


Library of Congress Catalog Card Number 55-5022 


Printed tn the United States of America 



GENERAL EDITORS’ PREFACE 


The Christian Church possesses in its literature an abundant 
and incomparable treasure. But it is an inheritance that 
must be reclaimed by each generation. The Library of 
Christian Classics is designed to present in the English 
language, and in twenty-six volumes of convenient size, a 
selection of the most indispensable Christian treatises written 
prior to the end of the sixteenth century. 

The practice of giving circulation to writings selected for 
superior worth or special interest was adopted at the beginning 
of Christian history. The canonical Scriptures were themselves 
a selection from a much wider literature. In the Patristic 
era there began to appear a class of works of compilation (often 
designed for ready reference in controversy) of the opinions 
of well-reputed predecessors, and in the Middle Ages many 
such works were produced. These medieval anthologies actually 
preserve some noteworthy materials from works otherwise lost. 

In modern times, with the increasing inability even of those 
trained in universities and theological colleges to read Latin 
and Greek texts with ease and familiarity, the translation of 
selected portions of earlier Christian literature into modern 
languages has become more necessary than ever; while the 
wide range of distinguished books wntten in vernaculars such 
as English makes selection there also needful. The efforts that 
have been made to meet this need are too numerous to be noted 
here, but none of these collections serves the purpose of the 
reader who desires a library of representative treatises spanning 
the Christian centuries as a whole. Most of them embrace 
only the age of the Church Fathers, and some of them have 
long been out of print. A fresh translation of a work already 

9 



10 GENERAL EDITORS’ PREFACE 

translated may shed much new light upon its meaning. This 
is true even of Bible translations despite the work of many 
experts through the centuries. In some instances old translations 
have been adopted in this series, but wherever necessary or 
desirable, new ones have been made. Notes have been supplied 
where these were needed to explain the author’s meaning. The 
introductions provided for the several treatises and extracts 
will, we believe, furmsh welcome guidance. 

John Baillie 
John T. McNeill 
Henry P. Van Dusen 



CONTENTS 

PREFACE ........ 13 

THE TRINITY 

Introduction , . . . . . *17 

BOOK vni: The Search for God by the Understanding 
Argument . . . . . . -37 

The Text ....... 38 

BOOK ix: The Trinity of Mind^ Knowledge^ and Love 
Argument ....... 56 

The Text ....... 57 

BOOK x: The Realization of Self-Knowledge: Memory ^ 

Understandings Will 

Argument ....... 72 

The Text ....... 73 

BOOK XI : The Image in the Outward Man 
Argument . . . . . . • 9^ 

BOOK XII : Knowledge and Wisdom 

Argument ....... 93 

BOOK XIII : The Trinity of Faith 

Argument . . . . , . -95 

BOOK XIV : The Perfection of the Image in the Contempla- 
tion of God 

Argument ....... 97 

The Text ....... 98 

BOOK XV : Review and Re-valuation: Image and Original 

Argument . . . . . . .126 

The Text . . . . . . .128 


II 



12 CONTENTS 

THE SPIRIT AND THE LETTER 

Introduction .... 

• 

. 182 

Argument ..... 

• 

• 193 

The Text ....... 

TEN HOMILIES ON THE FIRST EPISTLE 

• 195 

GENERAL OF ST. JOHN 

Introduction .... 

« 

. 251 

The Text ..... 

• 


Prologue ..... 

• 

• 259 

First Homily; I John 1-2:11 

• 

. 260 

Second Homily: I John 2:12-17 . 

• 

. 270 

Third Homily: I John 2:18-27 . 


• 279 

Fourth Homily: I John 2 '27-3:8 . 


. 287 

Fifth Homily: I John 3:9-18 

• 

• 295 

Sixth Homily: I John 3:19-4:3 . 


• 303 

Seventh Homily I John 4:4-12 . 

• 

. 312 

Eighth Homily: I John 4:12-16 . 

• 

. 320 

Ninth Homily: I John 4' 17-21 

• 

• 329 

Tenth Homily: I John 5:1-3 

• 

• 339 

SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY . 


• 349 

INDEXES 


• 353 



PREFACE 


The three works of St. Augustine translated in this volume, in 
whole or in part, were all published in the years between 410 
and 420, when Augustine was in his late fifties or early sixties, 
still at the height of his powers, and not yet wholly absorbed by 
the Pelagian controversy, which forced him to imprison his doc- 
trine of Grace in a system of rigid logic — the “Augusdnianism” 
whose authority has weighed so heavily and so unhappily upon 
Christian thought, though it has never been accepted by the 
consensus fidehum. 

The title, Augustine: Later Works^ might more properly be 
applied to the writings in which this system was worked out 
after the condemnation of Pelagianism in 418. It has been 
chosen as the simplest general description of a group of works 
nearly contemporaneous with one another, and separated by an 
interval of some twenty-five years from most of those included 
in the volume of his Earlier Writings in the present series. 

The De Trinitate^ though begun perhaps as early as 400, was 
not finished before 417. Augustine’s own words in the dedi- 
catory letter to Aurelius, Bishop of Carthage, are “I was young 
when I began it, an old man when I published it” — ^which sug- 
gests an even longer period of composition, though in Roman 
usage a man of forty was still d^juvenis. We may take the year 410 
as an approximate terminus a quo for the writing of the second 
half' of the treatise, which begins with Book VIII, and contains 
much the most original and interesting part of Augustine’s 
thought on the subject. There has been room for a complete 
translation only of Books VIII, IX, X, XIV, and XV; but the 
Introduction attempts to survey the whole work, and sum- 
maries are given of the argument of Books XI-XIII. 



PREFACE 


'14 

The De Spiritu et Littera was written in 412, soon after the 
Pelagian doctrines had gained notoriety in Africa by the con- 
demnation of Caelestius, but before Augustine had been led to 
study the writings of Pelagius and embark upon their refutation 
in detail. Thus it has the advantage of offering a positive state- 
ment of the writer’s understanding of St, Paul, rather than a 
controversial argument against Pelagianism, It is translated in 
fuU, 

The Tractatus in Epistolam lohannis were almost certainly 
delivered at Eastertide in the year 415, when Augustine’s most 
pressing concern was the final elimination of Donatism in his 
own diocese. Although direct references to the Donatists are not 
more than occasional, the Homilies can only be appreciated 
against the background of the schism; and tliis background is 
sketched in the Introduction, The Homilies have been consider- 
ably abbreviated in translation, but it is hoped that this has 
been done without serious loss. 

The selection has been made in order to provide examples 
of the finest works of Augustine, as speculative and mystical 
theologian, as Doctor Gratiae, and as preacher of Charity, The 
translator’s aim has been to reproduce three acknowledged 
masterpieces of “the greatest man who ever wrote Latin,” 1 in an 
English which will not be intolerably irksome to read. This can 
only be achieved by a fairly liberal though not unscrupulous 
use of paraphrase, and (in the Homilies especially) by a fairly 
severe pruning of the preacher’s luxuriance in rhetorical ques- 
tion and repetition. Reference to previous translations has been 
deliberately avoided: there is very seldom any difficulty in see- 
ing what Augustine’s Latin means. 

In the translation of Augustine’s Biblical quotations, his own 
text has been carefully followed. It must be remembered that 
he used one or other of the Old Latin versions current in Africa 
when he became Bishop, Jerome’s revised version (the Vulgate) 
became available by the year 400, In the New Testament it was 
not conspicuously different from the Old Latin, and Augustine 
regularly used it for the Gospels, But he was most reluctant to 
substitute Jerome’s version of the Old Testament, made direct 
from the Hebrew, for the Old Latin based on the Septuagint 
which for Augustine was an inspired text. Thus his Old Testa- 
ment quotations often differ widely from the versions with 
which we are familiar, 

1 The judgement of Professor Alexander Souter of Aberdeen in 

Vol. XI, p, 150, 



PREFACE 


15 


There has not been space for more than a minimum of ex- 
planatory notes, but the separate Introductions to each work 
are designed to make them reasonably intelligible to the ordin- 
ary reader — ^who must not be unduly discouraged, m the case 
of the De Tnnitate^ by its author’s gloomy prophecy, in a letter 
to his brother-Bishop Evodius (Ep, 169), that “few people would 
be able to understand it.” 

The text used is the Benedictine, in its second Paris edition 
of 1836-8, except for the De Spintu et Littera^ which is the only 
work of the three to have been issued in a critical modern text 
in the Vienna Corpus Scriptorum Ecclesiasticorum Latinorum. For 
convenience of reference to the original, the numeration of 
sections follows that of the Benedictine edition. 


Cambridge 
St. Augustine^ s Day^ 


J. B. 




The Trinity 

INTRODUCTION 

At the beginning of the fourth century, the 
ZA Christian religion, which had for so long been regarded 
-Z. JLas a menace to the unity and stability of the Roman 
Empire, was adopted by a sudden volte-face of its persecutor as 
the religion of the State, to serve the very purpose which it had 
been deemed to threaten. That purpose could only be served by 
a Church at unity in itself, possessed of a clearly defined and 
universally accepted system of belief. The Church was therefore 
compelled to think out and formulate the doctrine of God 
involved in the Christian gospel. This was indeed a process 
which had been going on in the Church from the first. Through- 
out the second and third centuries, the Apostolic tradition had 
had to meet the challenge of rational thought. The first great 
essay in systematic theology had been made by Origen at 
Alexandria, the intellectual centre of the Empire. But the 
speculative system of Origen had not claimed the status of 
‘‘orthodoxy,” and had encouraged rather than restricted the 
independent activity of Christian thinkers. So it was an attempt 
to rationalize the Christian doctrine of God, made by “heretics” 
who could claim to be followers of the great Alexandrian, that 
demanded from the Church, at the critical moment of her 
Summons to give a religion to the Empire, a sustained effort of 
her common mind. 

The Arians believed themselves to be contending for Biblical 
and rational monotheism. The Church had always preached the 
one God against the polytheistic cults of Greece and Rome; yet 
its own faith and worship had been given to Three. When 
reason faced the apparent inconsistency, it was natural that 
some should take for their starting-point the axiom of divine 

17 



l8 AUGUSTINE! LATEE. WORKS 

unity, while others began with the traditional expressions of 
Christian religious experience. The former approach led in the 
direction of the Sabellian solution — representing the one God 
as successively revealed in three temporal forms of activity: God 
is three ‘Tor us,” as we learn to know him in time, but eternally 
one “in himself.” The latter would try to preserve the “mon- 
archy,” the unitary divine rule, by subordinating the Son to the 
Father and the Spirit to the Son, while maintaining the real 
and eternal distinction of the Three. In Arianism, this subordina- 
tion was carried to the point of asserting a difference not only of 
status but of essential nature between Father and Son. absolute 
Godhead was reserved to the Father alone as Creator; Son and 
Spirit are his creatures. The purpose of the momentous decision 
of the Council of Nicaea, making the confession of the Son’s 
“consubstantiality” with the Father a test of orthodoxy for 
office in the Church, was to insist that there can be no such de- 
grees of divinity: if Christ be God, he must be God tn the same 
sense as the Father. But the test word itself was so ambiguous as 
to arouse suspicion of a Sabellian intention; and it took half a 
century of controversy to reach a common consent on the two 
fundamentals of Trinitarian doctrine: that Son and Spirit must 
be confessed as alike truly God, God without reservation, and 
yet that Father, Son, and Spirit are not mere names of one 
divine Being or “Person.” It was the work of the great Cap- 
padocian Fathers, Basil of Caesarea and the two Gregories 
of Nyssa and Nazianzus, to incorporate these two principles in 
a Christian doctrine of the one God which could be held with- 
out self-contradiction. They distinguished between the substance 
or essence of Godhead, one and indivisible, and the three forms 
of existence or objective embodiments of the one divine essence 
which constitute the “Persons.” They were well aware that this 
looked like a doctrine of three Gods — three particular “subsis- 
tences” (hypostases), each possessing the common “essence” 
or nature of Godhead; and they endeavoured to defend them- 
selves against the charge of tntheism by maintaining {a) that 
the Godhead is one in operation^ without any division or separa- 
tion of functions, not as a harmony but as a single agency, 
and [b) that the “Persons” are one in beings inasmuch as Son 
and Spirit are both derived, both spring eternally from one 
divine origin which is the Father. 

This was as far as Trinitarian theology had advanced at the 
end of the fourth century. The Cappadocians were constructive 
theologians; but their writings no less than those of Athanasius 



THE TRINITY 


19 

were the product of controversy and controversial in form. Of 
Augustine’s Latin predecessors, Hilary of Pictavium called his 
treatise De Tnmtate^ but devoted it entirely to establishing by 
anti-Arian argument the true Godhead of the Son; and the 
same may be said of the De Fide of Ambrose. In Augustine’s De 
Trinitate there is scarcely any element of controversy. He begins 
by taking the Catholic doctrine of God for granted: observing 
(Bk. I, 7 (iv)) that his predecessors have taught that ‘‘Father, 
Son, and Holy Ghost mean a divine unity in an inseparable 
equality of one and the same substance, and therefore are not 
three Gods but one God: though the Father has begotten the 
Son, and therefore he who is Father is not Son; the Son is be- 
gotten from the Father, and therefore he who is Son is not 
Father; the Holy Spirit is neither Father nor Son, but only 
Spirit of Father and Son, himself co-equal with both and be- 
longing to the unity of the Trinity.” And he goes on to say that 
not the Trinity but the Son alone was incarnate, crucified, 
risen, and ascended; not the Trinity but the Spirit alone des- 
cended upon Christ at the baptism and upon the apostles at 
Pentecost; and not the Trinity but the Father pronounced the 
words “Thou art my Son” at baptism and transfiguration. Yet 
Father, Son, and Holy Spirit are inseparable in their working as 
well as in their being. 

The first half of the De Trinitate deals with the problems raised 
by the Catholic doctrines {a) that God is one, and that the whole 
Trinity is active in all divine operations, and {b) that the three 
“Persons” are distinct from one another not only for our appre- 
hension but in their eternal being. 

Books I-IV are concerned with the interpretation of Scrip- 
ture on the assumption of the equal Godhead of all three “Per- 
sons.” When Scripture texts referring to Christ imply sub- 
ordination of the Son to the Father, this is generally to be 
explained on the lines which Athanasius had laid down: the 
Son as incarnate has the “form of a servant” as well as the “form 
of God,” and when Scripture speaks of him as inferior to the 
Father the reference is to his human nature only (Bk. I). 
Augustine allows, however, that in some cases the reference may 
be to the “form of God,” inasmuch as the Son’s Godhead is 
itself derived from the Father: here Augustine follows the lead 
of the Cappadocians. But Scripture tells us of “missions” of Son 
and Spirit in temporal history. These signify visible manifesta- 
tions of the second and third “Persons,” and are not to be 
limited to incarnation and Pentecost, for the Word and the 



20 


AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


Spirit have been active in the world since its creation. Before 
Augustine, the Old Testament theophanies were almost univer- 
sally interpreted by the Fathers as appearances of the Son — on 
the ground that the Father is essentially invisible. Augustine 
believes that we have no reason so to limit their significance: 
the whole Trinity is essentially invisible to the eye of flesh, but as 
CJod became visible to men in the incarnate Word through his 
human body, so (we may believe) for the manifestations of 
himself recorded in the Old Testament, whether as Trinity or 
as one or other of the several “Persons,” he used angelic 
agencies, whose instruments were the natural and material 
potentialities implanted by God himself in the world of his crea- 
tion (Bks. II and III). The supreme mission of the Son is of 
course the incarnation (Bk. IV). Augustine states its purpose in 
three aspects; (i) to remedy men’s pride and men’s despair by 
displaying at once the depth of tlicir unworthiness and the 
greatness of God’s love; (ii) to win for them a restoration of life 
both spintual and bodily by the sacrifice of the Saviour’s death; 
(iii) to restore them from division and dispersion into unity, 
through incorporation in the one Mediator. For this purpose the 
Son was manifested in the temporal and visible form of a 
creature — ^which is what his “mission” means. Similarly the 
Holy Spirit is manifested at Pentecost and in the Church’s life. 
And it was “fitting,” both that the first mission should be of that 
divine “Person” who is eternally begotten or derived from the 
Father, and that the second should be of the “Person” who pro- 
ceeds eternally from both Father and Son. But no inequahty in 
the Trinity is thereby implied. 

In Books V-VII, Augustine passes from the interpretation of 
Scripture, the supreme authority on which the Catholic faith is 
based, to the formulation of the faith in terms of the logical and 
metaphysical categories which he shares like the Greek Fathers 
with contemporary philosophy — especially the Neo-Platonism 
of Plotinus. The metaphysics of Plotinus distinguished within 
the eternal world of spiritual reality a “trinity” of the One, 
Mind, and Soul or Life, in which Soul forms the link between 
spirit and matter, eternal and temporal. Soul is both one and 
many, and is itself product of the activity of self-conscious Mind 
— ^mind thinking itself; whereas Mind in turn derives from the 
ultimate and absolute Unity in which there is no distinction of 
subject and object. The One is “beyond being,” because to say 
that the One “is” would be to give it a second attribute in addi- 
tion to its one-ness. “Being,” therefore, for Plotinus, begins with 



THE TRINITY 


21 


Mind. For Augustine as a Christian, the one eternal Being or 
“substance’^ is God himself— the God whose name is ‘‘I am.” 
Of this divine substance the essential marks are unity and 
changelessness, which are but negations of the creaturely char- 
acter that belongs to all else that exists. Creaturely substance as 
such is not ‘‘simple” but composite, and subject to change be- 
cause of its composite nature. Change, in a man, means the loss 
of some attribute, physical, mental, or moral, which he form- 
erly possessed, but the loss of which does not involve his ceasing 
to be a man. Such attributes are called “accidental.” God can- 
not change without ceasing to be God; for the substance of God 
is not compounded of parts, but is absolutely one or “simple.” 
This dogma of the divine “simplicity” as the logical ground 
both of unity and changelessness is common to Augustine and 
Greek theology in general. It is expressed in the formula “God 
is what he has,” and corresponds to the assertion of the medieval 
scholastics that in God essence and existence coincide. The being 
of God is not like the being of a man separate from any of his 
attributes: in technical terms, God can have no accidental 
attnbutes. And since God’s being is absolutely “simple,” there 
is no real difference between one divme attribute and another: 
God’s power, God’s wisdom, God’s goodness, are one and the 
same thing. 

Book V introduces, on the background of this metaphysic of 
substance, Augustine’s important distinction between sub- 
stantive and relative terms in the theology of the Trinity. In the 
logic of substance, it is true that all “accidents” imply the 
possibility of change, and cannot therefore be predicated of the 
divine substance. Arians argued from this that the terms “un- 
begotten” and “begotten” in their application to what is divine 
must denote substance, and being contradictory must involve a 
difference in the substance of Father and Son. But (Augustine 
replies) it is not true that all predicates applicable to God denote 
substance: they may denote eternal and unchangeable relations. 
“Begotten” is the same as “Son,” and Sonship is relative to 
Fatherhood: “unbegotten” simply negates the relation of Son- 
ship. The third “Person” is related to the other two as gift to 
giver; and this relation denotes an eternal potentiality in the 
Godhead, of “giveableness” even before the existence of crea- 
tures to whom the Spirit might be given. Terms such as “Lord,” 
which have no meaning apart from the created world, denote 
an “accident” not in God but in the creature’s relation to him. 

Books VI and VII discuss the application of substantive 



22 


AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


terms to one or other of the “Persons” as such. Christ is called 
the Wisdom of God; but it cannot be maintained (as some of the 
orthodox opponents of Arianism had done) that wisdom belongs 
to the Father only by his generation of the Son. For wisdom is a 
term denoting substance, and all such terms belong to Godhead 
as Godhead: God “is what he has”; m him to be is to be wise. 
The Trinity is not a “triplicity,” an organism of parts: the 
equality of the “Persons” means that each possesses the whole 
substance of Godhead. The Son is therefore Wisdom from Wis- 
dom, just as he is God from God. Scripture applies the term 
especially to the Son, inasmuch as his incarnation provides the 
pattern of the divine wisdom which men are called to follow. 
Augustine discusses at length the theological terms used to de- 
note the distinctions withm the Godhead, and finds that these 
terms are inevitably unsatisfactory. Both the Greek hypostasis 
and the Latin persona in ordinary usage are terms of substance, 
not relation. In the proper sense, the Person of God is his essen- 
tial being, his substance. We can only use the term “Person” in 
its Trinitarian application /awfe de mieux, and must always bear 
in mind that in the theology of the Trinity it does not bear its 
ordinary sense: its implication is negative — the Father is not the 
Son, etc. — rather than positive. 

It is clear that in this sifting of the proper application of 
theological terms, Augustine has so far not advanced beyond 
the position of the Cappadocian Fathers. He has not main- 
tained — what indeed would be meaningless — that the Persons 
of the Trinity are relations; for he knows that a relation is 
nothing but a logical term predicable of that which is or pos- 
sesses substance. He has simply pointed out that what differen- 
tiates the divine substance as it exists in the several Persons of 
the Trinity is a specific form of relation which in no way affects 
the “substantial” equality of the Persons. But he has done no 
more than the Cappadocians to make the unity of the divine 
substance in three Persons intelhgible. The substance of God- 
head might still be conceived, not as a concrete reality, but as an 
abstract or general notion, realized only in three individual 
beings who are in fact three Gods. 

The purpose of the second half of the De Tnnitate (Bks. VIII- 
XV) is not to work out a speculative re-formulation of Trini- 
tarian doctrine, but to seek for an “understanding of what has 
been believed.” It must be noted that faith, the act of believing, 
throughout our treatise has the meaning of acceptance of the 
Christian gospel as proclaimed on the authority of the Church. 



THE TRINITY 


23 

Augustine is aware that Christian faith involves the trustful 
commitment of the whole self to Christ; but it is plain to him 
that such personal commitment must be grounded on accept- 
ance both of the historical facts of the gospel and of the author- 
itative interpretation of these facts by the Church. And this 
acceptance is necessarily the acceptance of a testimony which 
is deemed sufficient — ^whether it be the teaching of Scripture 
or that of tradition. At the beginning of Book VIII, Augustine 
announces his intention of endeavouring to present the content 
of faith to the grasp of the understanding ‘‘by a more inward 
way.” This ^‘more inward way” is that which (as he tells us in 
the Vllth Book of the Confessions) he had been taught to follow 
by his reading of the ‘^books of the Platonists” — the way of 
“returning into himself” and looking for God “within.” It is the 
method of introspection of which Augusdne was so great a 
master. He believes himself fully justified in seeking in the 
nature of the human soul for a pointer towards the under- 
standing of the Trinity. For it is a matter of faith that God is 
manifested in “the things that are made” (Rom.i : 20)3 and that 
of all the things that are made it is man and man only that is 
made in the image of God. But just because Augustine is re- 
solved, whether his search for understanding prove successful 
or not, to hold fast to the data which faith provides, the search 
itself cannot be free or unprejudiced. He knows already what he is 
looking for: his discoveries are in large measure predetermined. 
If there is indeed an image of God in the human soul, it must be a 
unity in trinity: it must, that is, disclose three realities which are 
“consubstantial” in the sense that one and the same substance 
is exhibited in all of them “without any difference or inequality”; 
and these three must be distinct from one another solely in vir- 
tue of their mutual relations. These relations, again, cannot be 
relations of parts to a whole; for in that case the one substance 
could not be present in each of them in its entirety. It is there- 
fore not surprising that we find a tendency, in the course of the 
psychological discussions which occupy so much of the Books 
with which we are concerned, to leap to the desired conclusion 
and translate psychological into theological terms. But it says 
much for the honesty and integrity of Augustine’s introspective 
research, that at the end of it he is careful (in Bk. XV) to em- 
phasize and elaborate not the perfection of the image but its 
inadequacy. At the best, we see God in his image per speculum in 
aenigmate — “through a glass, darkly.” To speak of Augustine’s 
doctrine of the Trimty as “psychological” and therefore umtarian 



24 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

in tendency is seriously to misapprehend his purpose. As we 
have already seen, he will employ the term persona of the dis- 
tinctions within the Godhead only with the reservation that it 
is no more than an indispensable label. But that is because 
“person” in normal usage denotes an independently existing 
substance and therefore can properly be predicated only of God 
as God, not of the divine being as differentiated in a system of 
relations. How far Augustine is in fact from conceiving the 
Godhead as uni-personal, is shown by the way in which he 
dwells (in Bk. XV) upon this very point of difference between 
imagp and original. The human trinity, he says, “belongs” to an 
Ego, to a single “person”: the “Persons” of the divine Trinity 
are not one but three, although “the Trinity of three Persons is 
more inseparable than the imaged trinity of one” (XV, 
43 (xxiii)) . It is not necessary to suppose that here Augustine has 
forgotten his own caveat against the application of the word 
“person” in its ordinary sense to the members of the divine 
Trinity, and has slipped into employing it univocally of the 
human and the divine. He is insisting that whereas in the human 
individual the ultimate reality is one and not three, this is not to be 
said of God: in the divine being three-ness and one-ness are 
both equally ultimate. In Christian theology neither is unity 
prior to multiplicity (as in Neo-Platonism), nor is multiplicity 
prior to unity (as in any form of tritheism) . 

In the Retractations, Augustine says that his treatise De Vera 
Religione, the last work which he wrote as a layman (i.e., about 
the year 390) was designed to present “true religion” as the 
worship of “the one true God, that is, the Trinity of Father, 
Son, and Holy Spirit.” In the last chapter of this work, of which 
the philosophy is still strongly Neo-Platonist, he had asserted 
his worship of “one God, the one beginning of all things, the 
wisdom by which every wise soul is wise, and the gift by which 
all things blessed are blessed . . . the Trinity of one substance 
. . . the beginning to which we return, the form (or pattern) 
we follow after, the grace by which we are reconciled . . . the 
one God whose creation gives us life, through whose re-forming 
we live wisely, by the love and enjoyment of whom we live 
blessedly.” 

This is the basic Trinitarian pattern which Augustine re- 
tained all through his theological development. There is a 
brief reference to it some ten years later in the Confessions 
(XIII, 12 (xi)), where he calls his readers to contemplate the 
triad of being, knowing, and willing in themselves — a triad which 



THE TRINITY 


25 

is indeed ‘Tar other” than the divine Trinity, but in which there 
is nevertheless “an inseparable life — one life^ one mind^ one 
essencd^ (this phrase recurs in De Trin,^ X, 18 (xi)) — “an in- 
separable distinction which is still a distinction.” He plays on 
the same theme with elaborate variations in Book XI of the 
De Civitate Dei^ which is probably later in composition than most 
of the De Trinitate. “The whole Trinity is made known to us in 
its works. Thence has the Holy City ... its origin, its inform- 
ing, and its beatitude. Ask what gives it being: we answer, God’s 
creation. Ask what gives it wisdom: we answer, God’s en- 
lightening. Ask what gives it happiness: we answer, the enjoy- 
ment of God, In existence it is controlled, in contemplation it is 
illumined, in union it has delight. It is, it beholds, it loves. In 
God’s eternity it is strong, in God’s truth it shines, in God’s 
goodness it rejoices” (XI, 24). To the same pattern corresponds 
the traditional division of secular philosophy into physics, logic, 
and ethics (XI, 25). Finally in our own being, knowledge, and 
love, we can recognize an image of the Trinity — “the Creator 
to whom belongs true eternity, eternal truth, eternal and true 
charity.” “Contemplating that image in ourselves, we are 
moved like the younger son in the Gospel to return to ourselves^ to 
arise and make our way back to him from whom our sins had 
drawn us away. There our being will meet no death, our know- 
ing no mistaking, our loving no failure” (XI, 26-28). In the De 
Trinitate^ the second and third members of this triadic pattern 
are retained throughout the search for the image of God in the 
soul. The first member, however, being, existence, or life, ap- 
pears only when in Book X Augustine is enumerating the cer- 
tainties of self-knowledge: we know for certain that we exist or 
live, that we think, that we will. But being, existence, figures in 
none of the psychological triads to which detailed study is given. 
The reason for this is evidently that Augustine needs three 
terms which imply relations, whereas being is not relative and 
cannot serve as distinctive analogue for any one Person in the 
Trinity. And it will have been partly for this reason that the 
first of his images of the Trinity, the triad of mind, knowledge, 
and love, is replaced by the second triad of memory, under- 
standing, and will; for mind, as he is obliged to admit, is an 
absolute and not a relative term. 

Augustine tells us in the Ret) actations that before he had finished 
Book XII of the De Trimtate, certain persons got hold of what 
he had already written and put it into circulation without his 
permission. We can understand his vexation. At first he was 



26 


AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


inclined to drop the whole project, and publish only a statement 
of what had taken place against his will. But he yielded (as he 
generally did) to the entreaties of his friends: he revised and 
completed his work, with its last three Books, and sent it to the 
Bishop of Carthage, Aurelius, with a letter which he asked to 
have prefixed to any published version. In this letter he ex- 
plains that his annoyance at the premature circulation of the 
unfinished work was not only because it needed a thorough re- 
vision, but because it had been planned to be read as a whole — 
“because each part was linked to what preceded in an advancing 
enquiry.” This insistence upon the order and connection of the 
treatise has often been neglected, and the various “images of the 
Trinity” in the last seven Books have been treated as though 
they had little or no logical dependence upon one another. It is 
true that Augustine’s literary method is digressive (though even 
his digressions are often no more than longish footnotes). But 
his work is never shapeless. The last eight Books of the De 
Trinitate do present an “advancing enquiry.” 

Book VIII prepares the way for what is to follow. ABer a 
preliminary warning against the application of ordinary quan- 
titative ideas of number and magnitude to Trinitarian theology, 
Augustine endeavours to show that our natural make-up as 
thinking and willing beings points us to God as the Truth which 
is the ultimate object of knowledge and the Good which is the 
ultimate satisfaction of desire. But the knowledge and the love 
of God are inseparable; in order to know God we must love 
him; and Scripture assures us that in love itself God is known to 
us as a present reality. The nature of love, involving subject, 
object, and relation, already indicates a “three in one.” It is not, 
however, Augustine’s intention to dwell on this “trinity of 
love.” He passes immediately in Book IX to apply what he has 
said of the inseparabihty of knowing and willing, cognition and 
conation, to the discovery of a trinity in the mind that knows 
and wills. At once the enquiry is determined by its purpose. 
If there is an image of the Triune God in the human soul, it 
must be a self-contained trinity of mutually related terms. The 
mind’s knowing and willing must therefore be regarded as re- 
flexive, directed inwards upon itself and not outwards upon 
other objects. So the image proposed in Book IX is mind, its 
knowledge of itself, and its love of itself; and having shown that 
this human trinity is in fact like the divine Trinity “of one sub- 
stance,” in which the three terms display both co-equality and 
mutual relatedness, Augustine does not hesitate to apply to it 



THE TRINITY 


27 

the traditional language of theology. The second Person of the 
Trinity is Son, Word, and Image of the first; the third is ‘^not 
begotten, but proceeding.” Similarly, the mind’s self-knowledge, 
if it is a true knowledge, is an expression or ‘ Vord” which can 
be described as ‘"begotten” from the mind of which it is a kind 
of image or likeness; while the realization of this self-knowledge 
presumes a movement of will which “proceeds” from the mind 
as capable of self-knowledge, and finds its satisfaction in the 
self-knowledge realized in the “word.” 

Thus we are led, through this reference to the divine original, 
from a purely static account of the mental trinity to a dynamic 
one. The whole of Book X is occupied with the process by 
which the mind comes to know itself in its true “word” or expres- 
sion. The process is a kind of search, of which the motive is love 
in the sense of desire or appetition. Augustine establishes at 
length the principle that there can be no love for what is un- 
known; from which it follows that the mind could not seek for 
a knowledge of itself unless it were already in some sense known 
to itself. The solution of the problem is found in the conception, 
which Augustine has acquired from Plotinus, of “self-recollec- 
tion.” All men possess a knowledge of their own real being as a 
spiritual activity of thought and wiU; but this knowledge has 
been obscured by an over-lay of false notions derived from the 
material world. So we have “forgotten” ourselves; but the 
“memory” of what we are persists (in modern phrase) below 
the level of consciousness, and only needs to be recalled. By re- 
flection, the human mind can be certain that it possesses 
memory, understanding, and will — and this offers to our view 
what Augustine calls a “more evident” trimty, which like the 
first is understood reflexively, of the mind’s remembering, 
understanding, and willing itself. 

What makes this second trinity “more evident,” clearer? and 
what is its relation to the previous triad of mind, its self-know- 
ledge, and its self-love? Thomas Aquinas, approaching the 
question with the Aristotelian distinctions of “habit” and “act,” 
the potential and the actual, in his mind, supposed that Augus- 
tine’s first tnad described the structure of the mind in potentia^ 
as capable of self-knowledge and self-love; whereas the second 
presents these potencies as realized in conscious activity. And a 
modern follower of Thomas ^ has argued that the second and 

1 A Gardeilj La Structure de PAme et P Experience Mystique^ Vol I, pp 21-130. 

The important passages in Thomas are I Sent Dist , 3, qu. v, and De 

Veritate, qu x, a 3. 



AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


28 

third terms of the first triad, knowledge and love, are to be 
understood in a passive sense, as equivalent to the mind itself 
in its two essential capacities for being known and being loved by 
itself; and further that these two terms, denoting capacities as 
yet unrealized, together compose the “memory” which appears 
as first term of the second triad, and thus link the two trinities 
to one another genetically: the second emerges from the first. 
Augustine certainly gives us no hint of his having envisaged his 
two trinities in this way; and it is very doubtful whether he can 
actually have done so. It must be remembered that the triad of 
mind, self-knowledge, and self-love was suggested by a con- 
sideration of the trinity of subject, object, and relation to be 
discerned in the nature of love. In the self-conscious mind, sub- 
ject and object are the same, and can only form one term of the 
triad. The other two terms are relations which are both active 
and passive — active in the mind as subject and passive in the 
mind as object: the mind knows and loves itself as subject, is 
known and loved by itself as object. Moreover, it is in Book IX 
and still within the frame of the first trinity that Augustine 
develops his conception of the “birth” of the mental “word,” 
which is of course (in Thomist terms) an “act” and not a 
“habit,” and which at the end of the same Book is expressly 
identified with the mind’s self-knowledge. This seems fatal to 
Thomas’s distinction between the first triad as purely potential 
and the second as actual. The fact is rather, as Augustine says 
at the conclusion of his study of the first triad in Book IX 
(IX, 9 (vi)), that the human mind as thus analysed is not a 
“changeless lieing,” but a life in the making; and what we need 
to know is not so much what it is, but what according to the 
everlasting law of God it ought to be. Henceforth, the true image 
of the divine Trinity must be sought in the mind as God means 
it to be, and as it cannot and will not be until its renewal by the 
grace of God is complete. 

This renewal is the subject of Book XIV. The three inter- 
vening Books, XI, XII, and XIII, of which only brief sum- 
maries are given in this volume, have the appearance of suc- 
cessive excursus or digressions which break the continuity of the 
argument. But Augustine knows what he is about. “When he 
shall appear, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is.” 
The divine likened in the human soul will be perfectly realized 
only when God himself and not his created image becomes the 
object of the soul’s loving contemplation. But the Christian life 
is a gradual ascent to tiiis contemplation, in which the soul 



THE TRINITY 


29 

must use the things of its outward environment, things spatial 
and temporal, in order that it may rise above them. In parti- 
cular, the significance of the time-factor has been brought out 
by the discussion in Book X of the mind’s search for self-know- 
ledge, and the introduction of the notions of memory and recol- 
lection. The thinking or reflection which is needed in order to 
realize in the mind its trinity of memory, understanding, and 
will is a conscious process occurring in time. In Book XI, 
Augustine seeks to illustrate this temporal process by a study of 
sense-perception. At first sight this is a retrograde step; for the 
field of sense-perception belongs to the '‘outward man,” though 
the "inward” is involved in it. But it is reculer pour mieux sauter. 
For the examination of the "trinity of sense” leads to that of the 
"trinity of imagination,” based upon sense-perception, in which 
the actual working of memory and recollection can be followed 
in its simplest form. Images of things seen are stored in the 
memory, and are re-presented to the inward vision (under- 
standing) by the voluntary act of attention (will). This is still 
so far a trinity of the "outward man,” inasmuch as it is depen- 
dent upon the deliveries of the bodily senses. But it reminds us 
that the "outward” and "inward” man are in this life linked 
together in a single organism. The nature of this union, what 
Augustine calls die "confine” or borderland of outward and 
inward, is studied in Book XII, in which the reasonable soul is 
shown to have a two-fold activity: the one, that of dealing by 
rational judgment with the objects and events of the extemsi 
world and its temporal experiences, the other, that of contem- 
plating the inward and eternal world of truth. Applying to this 
distinction the texts of I Cor. 12:8 and Job 28:28, together 
with Col. 2:3, Augustine gives to the two functions the names 
of Knowledge {Scientia) and Wisdom (Sapientia). "Knowledge” 
is the sphere of the "lower reason,” which has its proper place 
and function as servant of the "higher”; but because it is con- 
cerned with the transient, the life we lead in time, it must never 
become the dominant partner but always be held in conscious 
subordination to the "higher” — to the growth and perfecting 
of the "Wisdom” which is worship, the "fear of the Lord.” In 
other words, Augustine like Plotinus insists that the true end of 
man is not action but contemplation; and this means that the 
perfect image of God can only be found in the mind at worship. 
For Augustine, this relation of action to contemplation, of 
Knowledge to Wisdom, of the life of man in time to his worship 
in eternity, corresponds to the difference between faith and 



AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


30 

sight. Christian faith, no less than Christian conduct, is con- 
cerned with things temporal; for faith rests upon the history of 
our salvation, the things wrought in time by the incarnate Word 
on our behalf. And this fides historica, as the only sure ground 
on which man’s natural desire for a well-being that is not 
destroyed by death can look for satisfaction, is the subject of 
Book XIII. The believing mind holds the content of this faith in 
memory, and realizes it in conscious thought by the act of 
loving attention; but this “trinity of faith” is itself transient, be- 
cause its object belongs to the realm of time. The Christian 
life in time is a passage through Knowledge to Wisdom (XIII, 
24 (xix)). 

So Augustine returns to the point reached at the end of 
Book X. He has cleared the way for his final identification in 
Book XIV of the image of the Trinity in the human soul with 
that soul’s perfecting in Wisdom, where God himself is the ob- 
ject of the mind’s memory, understanding, and will: where the 
mind’s knowledge of itself is the knowledge that it is God’s 
image, enabling it so to fix its contemplation no longer upon 
itself but upon God (XIV, 1 5 (xii) ) . The soul of man is made for 
eternal life; and that means that the image of God in it cannot 
finally be identified with anything that is confined to its activity 
in time. The mind as God’s creation is endowed with a natural 
capacity for the remembering, understanding, and willing of 
itself; and when these powers are rightly directed, the self will 
be recognized in its true order of being in relation to the God 
whose image it is. In our fallen condition, sin holds this natural 
capacity in abeyance, but can never destroy it: it is in fact what 
alone makes possible the work of grace. Grace awakens the dor- 
mant power of the mind to see God’s image in itself, to see itself, 
that is, as God’s image. Christian faith, the belief in the historic 
acts of incarnation and redemption, and the life of Christian 
practice issuing from that faith, are the means which grace 
employs in this re-fashioning of the soul. What Augustine is 
saying in effect is this: the Church teaches us to believe that 
God is Trinity — one eternal Being in three related Persons. But 
to “understand” what we have believed is only possible in the 
measure in which the gratia Chnsti enables us to recover in our- 
selves that image which the Triune God imprinted on us in our 
creation. The inspiration of the Be Tnnitate is as much devo- 
tional as theological. 

To sum up: Augustine recognizes and distinguishes three 
phases of the divine image in man. There is, first, the ineradic- 



THE TRINITY 


31 

able likeness to God in which man is created, belonging to his 
essential nature. There is, secondly, the temporal and progressive 
recovery of this likeness, obscured by sin, which takes effect in 
the Christian life under the influence of grace. And there will be, 
thirdly, the perfection and maturity of the likeness, in the life to 
come, when knowledge shall have given place to wisdom in that 
state of glory which is the vision of God. 

In this life, it is impossible for us, just because we are travel- 
lers, in via^ to anticipate the perfecting of the divine image. 
Nevertheless, Augustine will attempt in Book XV to lift our 
thoughts from the image to the original; and since the image in 
its perfection is beyond our present experience, he will make his 
comparison between the image as we know it in its fallen and 
disfigured state, and the original after which it was created 
(XV, 39 (xx)). He draws out the differences, both formal and 
material, bodi in respect of triunity and in respect of the corres- 
pondence between the several members of the human and 
divine Trinities respectively. The only criterion at his disposal 
is the authoritative dogma, based on Scripture and tradition, 
and accepted by faith. The Christian is bound to believe that 
what (for lack of a better word) he calls the “Persons” of the 
Trinity are one God, because they differ from one another only 
by the relations in which they stand to one another. But this 
is not the case with the human trinity of memory, under- 
standing, and will: these are three specific functions which make 
up or constitute the spiritual being of a man, and they differ 
from one another essentially in themselves, and not merely in 
their mutual relations. Behind the three powers or faculties of 
the mind there is the human person, the Ego who is the ultimate 
subject of their exercise: it is I, not my memory, that under- 
stands and wills, I, not my understanding, that remembers and 
wills, I, not my will, that remembers and understands. Whereas 
in the divine Trinity full personality must belong to each 
“Person”: the Persons are not faculties or functions of a divine 
Ego. 

On the other hand, Augustine believes that the value of his 
analysis of the mental trinity goes further than to show how 
three things can at the same time be one: he discerns a real 
image of Ae Father in memory, of the Son in understanding, 
and of the Spirit in will (XV, 43 (xxiii)). 

In the case of the first Person, the likeness consists simply in 
the character of “memory” as the source or fount both of 
understanding and of will. It is to be noted that while Augustine 



AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


32 

retains this conception of the divine Fatherhood as a relation 
within the Godhead, he does not follow the Cappadocians in 
treating it as constitutive of unity. For the second Person, the 
ground of the likeness is of course the Scriptural and traditional 
doctrine of the divine Word. In the Fathers before Augustine, 
the Logos-doctrine had displayed a continual wavering be- 
tween the Biblical conception of the Word of God, as the 
revelation to men of his will and purpose, and the Greek philo- 
sophical idea of the divine reason immanent in the cosmos. Since 
human speech is the instrument of rational thought, the spoken 
Word of God could naturally be conceived as the expression of 
the reason which is eternally in God: his Word is also his Wis- 
dom. The second century apologists, in their endeavour to take 
advantage in the Christian interest of the Stoic belief in reason 
as the formative cosmic principle, had attempted to interpret 
the Sonship of the Logos as God’s begetting or bringing forth 
his rational purpose in the creation of the world. This proved 
a false step, which had to be corrected by Origen with his doc- 
trine of the eternal generation of the Son. But neither Ongen 
nor his followers made use of psychological analogy in their 
presentation of the doctrine. Indeed, Augustine’s only impor- 
tant predecessor in this respect was Tertullian, who argued in 
his Adversus Praxean (c. 5) that both reason and Word must be 
conceived as existing in God before the world’s creation, com- 
paring the unspoken word or dialogue in the mind which is 
involved in the process of human thinking, and justifying his 
comparison on the ground of man’s making in the image and 
likeness of God. 

Augustine’s treatment of the subject is plainly inspired by 
the Neo-Platonist theory of self-conscious Mind [Nous) which is 
both subject and object of thought and so contains a duality in 
itself. In Augustine’s mental trinities, the mind’s self-knowledge 
and self-understanding closely correspond to the self-contem- 
plating activity which Plotinus ascribes to Nous. The human 
mind in the act of conscious recognition of itself “begets” an 
image of itself which is true when it fully corresponds to the self 
which it reproduces, in the utterance of its inward “word.” So 
in the divine Trinity the Son is the eternal self-reproduction of 
the Father; and this is the primary significance of the “Word” 
as title of the second Person. In Book XV, however, Augustine 
does not confine his comparison of human and divine “words,” 
as we might have expected, to this reflexive aspect of self- 
consciousness. He considers the “word” both in man and God 



THE TRINITY 


33 

as a cognizance taken not only of the cognizing self but of other 
things as well; and so draws his contrast between the scanty con- 
tent of all human knowledge and the divine omniscience. He 
has been led to this extension by his treatment of the image as 
perfected in Wisdom: for the divine Wisdom is more than self- 
knowledge; it is the knowledge of all things. But, though Scrip- 
ture speaks of Christ as the Wisdom of God, Wisdom is not, 
like Word, a distinctive title of the second Person of the Trinity, 
but an essential attribute of Godhead; and the Son is therefore 
Wisdom only as being ‘Trom Wisdom,'" as he is God ^Trom 
God." Augustine has previously established this point in 
Book VII, where he explains the Scripture's appropriation of 
the name Wisdom to the second Person on the ground that the 
Word incarnate reveals to men the pattern of the divine wis- 
dom in whose image they were made and must be re-made. 
In this way, as we can see, Augustine finds place for the revela- 
tional or declaratory function of the Word. The Son took flesh, 
as our inward word clothes itself in spoken language, for the 
purpose of communication (XV, 20 (xi)). It remains true, 
however, that the aim of the De Tnmtate^ in regard to the 
second Person of the Trinity, is to find within the human image 
an analogue of the Word that ‘‘was in the beginning with God," 
and to show the appropriateness of the idea of filiation to 
designate the “express image" of the Father’s hypostasis 
(Heb. 1:3); and it is upon this eternal relation of Son to Father 
in the Godhead that in Augustine's view the work of the second 
Person in revelation and redemption depends. 

In the application of the third member of his mental trinity 
to the Person of the Holy Spirit, the work of Augustine is much 
more original and determinative for the history of Trinitarian 
theology; and it is of course intimately involved in his own doc- 
trine of grace. There is surprisingly little allusion to Pelagian 
errors even in the later Books of the De Trinitate. But the Pauline 
text — “the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy 
Spirit which is given us" — ^which is the main theme of the 
refutation of Pelagianism in the De Spiritu et Littera, gives the 
key to the appropriation of charity to the Spirit in our treatise. 
The text of John — “God is Agape "^ — ^forbids the identification of 
any one Person of the Trinity with charity. Augustine will not 
go further than to claim justification for giving the name of 
charity “in a special sense” to the Spirit, exactly as the name 
of wisdom may be given “in a special sense" to the Son: in both 
cases the usage of Scripture is the sufficient authority. But 



AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


34 

charity (like wisdom) is properly a substantive term applicable 
to God '‘in himself,” or to each and every Person of the Trinity 
qua possessed of Godhead. The relational term for the third 
Person is Gift. The difficulty here is that this term in Scripture 
plainly denotes the Spirit as given to men; and Augustine hesi- 
tates to transfer the notion directly to an inter-Personal relation 
within the eternal being of the Godhead. He says that the 
Spirit is eternally Gift as being eternally "giveable,” whereas his 
"giving” is a temporal event (V, i6 (xv)). But it is abundantly 
clear, from the persistence with which the function of will or 
love in the human trinity is described as bringing together or 
uniting the other two members of the triad, that the guiding 
thought is of the Spirit as the vinculum Trinitatis, the bond or 
"communion” of Father and Son. Father and Son are alike and 
equally "holy,” alike and equally "Spirit”: "Ploly Spirit” is 
"common to both,” and may therefore most fittingly be spoken 
of as the "mutual charity whereby the Father and the Son love 
one another” (XV, 27 (xvii)). The conclusion lies very near — 
though Augustine does not draw it in so many words — that 
chanty is communion because it is self-giving. As "Charity from 
Charity,” the Spirit when given to men binds them in union to 
God, making "the whole Trinity have its habitation within us” 
(XV, 32 (xviii)). The love whereby wc love God is God’s gift 
of himself, and apart from him wc can do nothing. Thus what 
was really at stake in the Pelagian controversy was the reality 
of the divine presence, through grace, in the soul of man. 

Kote on terminology 

It is impossible in translation to convey the exact meaning of 
the keywords in Augustine’s analysis of the image of tlie 
Trinity in man. The most important of these are mens ("mind”), 
intelligentia ("understanding”), memoria ("memory”), amor 
("love”), and charitas ("charity”). 

(1) Mens. — "Mind” in Augustine’s usage stands for the ele- 
ment in human nature by which it is distinguished from any- 
thing possessed in common with the lower animals. It connotes 
especially the power of reasoning, but it does not mean the 
"intellect” in our sense of the word. It is rather the "rational 
soul,” which feels, desires, and wills as well as thinks. 

(2) Intelligentia. — ^For this word, "understanding” is the only 
convenient equivalent, but it has the serious disadvantage of 
suggesting "comprehension,” in the sense of appreciating the 



THE TRINITY 


35 

significance of an idea or a proposition, and observing its 
logical connection with the rest of our knowledge. Augustine 
always thinks as a Platonist of the objects of knowledge as so 
many concrete realities ^laid up in heaven’’; and like Plato he 
can only describe the knowing mind’s relation to these realities 
in terms of the ^‘most noble” of our bodily senses, that of sight 
The difference between faith and understanding is the differ- 
ence between indirect acquaintance on the basis of another’s 
testimony, and the immediacy of vision at first-hand. To 
‘^understand,” therefore, is simply to “see with the mind,” to 
“apprehend” rather than “comprehend,” and the act of under- 
standing is intuitive, not discursive. 

(3) Memoria, — “Memory” is Augustine’s word for the reten- 
tion of experience in the human mind. As memory, the mind is 
a storehouse in which traces of the passing experience are pre- 
served. But we only “remember” what is in the store-house by 
entering it (as it were) and looking in it for what we want, or (as 
in the case of involuntary recollection) by stumbling upon some 
particular item of its content. Thus the Augustinian “memory” 
corresponds roughly to the modem notion of the “sub-con- 
scious” or the “unconscious.” But Augustine believes that the 
content of the “unconscious” is not limited to the traces left by 
sense-perception; for the mind at birth is more than a tabula 
rasa dependent entirely upon impressions from the external 
world. Being the creation of God and bearing the image of God, 
the mind must always retain a knowledge of its own nature as 
God’s created image; and thus it must possess a “memory of 
God” which is indelible, however deeply hidden away. 

(4) Amor and Charitas , — ^The primary connotation of “love” 
in Augustine is “desire.” It is the motive of all human action, 
the source of energy which compels a man to seek the satisfac- 
tion of his needs; and Augustine compares it to the force of 
gravity. “My weight is my love: by it I am carried whither- 
soever I move” [Confessions y XIII, 10 (ix)). The end which love 
pursues is “fruition,” enjoyment, and the quality of love de- 
pends on that of the objects whose enjoyment is sought. It is 
therefore neither good nor bad in itself. When it is directed 
towards “lower things” in the scale of existence, it will be evil 
unless such things are desired only as means towards the attain- 
ment of man’s true end — “the fruition of God and of one 
another in God” [De Civitate^ XIX, 13). Thus love [amor) is a 
neutral term: if it seeks final satisfaction in “what is lower,” 
it is “covetousness” [concupiscentia)i if it is directed ultimately 



36 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

upon God, or (in Augustine’s phrase) “referred to God,” it is 
“charity.” But it is important to observe that both amor and 
chantas include feeling as well as striving or conation: indeed it 
is the affective element in love that supplies its dynamic. In 
virtue of this affective element, love does not cease to exist 
when it has attained its object. So Augustine can define love as 
“nothing else but the will, seeking after or holding in possession an 
object of enjoyment” {De Trin., XIV, 8 (vi)) — a definition 
which makes clear the difference in connotation between “will” 
and “love.” The two words denote one and the same activity, 
but voluntas fixes attention upon the conative element in this 
activity, while amor always connotes feeling. 



The Trinity 


Book VIII 

The Search for God by the Understanding 
ARGUMENT 

[Terms which distingxiish the Persons of the Trinity from one 
another denote relations only. Terms applicable equally to each 
Person and to the whole Trinity denote substance or essence. 
How can we apprehend the divine essence? The first necessity 
is to dismiss the quantitative notions which we acquire from 
the world of sense-perception. The Persons of the Trinity 
are co-equal, simply because in absolute truth or reality 
there can be no degrees. We cannot grasp, otherwise than 
by momentary intuition, the conception of ultimate truth 
(reality) because our minds are weakened by sin and error 
(§§ 1 - 3 )- 

It may be easier to reach the conception of God’s essence as 
goodness — the universal Good which is implied by the existence 
of particular good things, and our ability to recognize them as 
good. The soul can win or lose goodness; and this implies a 
goodness that is independent of the soul, towards which or away 
from which the soul can move (§§ 4, 5). The soul can hold to 
the supreme Good only by love; and love, for its advance to the 
knowledge of vision, must be supported by the knowledge of 
faith (§6). 

Our beliefs, with regard to matten with which we are not 
directly acquainted, e.g., the facts of the Gospel story, are 
grounded not on the mental picture which we form of them, and 
which is usually erroneous, but on general or abstract ideas (§ 7) . 
But our belief in the Trinity, our belief in God, cannot be based 
on any ‘‘general idea” (§ 8). Our love, e.g., for Paul, is love of 
the “righteous soul”; and we know what “soul” is because we 
ourselves are souls. But if we are not righteous ourselves how 
can we know what “righteousness” is? and without knowing it, 

37 



AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


38 

how can we love it? The knowledge must somehow be '^in our- 
selves,” though not derived from sense-perception. It can be 
based only on a form or pattern actually present to the soul, 
which can hold to it only by way of love (§ 9) . 

What is the nature of this love? Simply the ‘ Vill to righteous- 
ness” for ourselves and for others. But the love of neighbour 
ultimately depends on the love of God; and the love of God is 
the love, not of power, but of love (§§ 10, ii). Because God is 
love, we can know him when we love our brother. 

But how is the knowledge of love, charity, the knowledge of 
God as Trinity? All love must have an object; and John’s 
Epistle teaches us that the love which has a brother for its object 
is not only ‘^of God,” but “God.” But we cannot love a brother, 
without also loving love. In other words, the two great com- 
mandments are inseparable (§ 12). Paul’s description of the 
character of God’s ministers (II Cor., ch. 6) kindles our love 
through its correspondence with the pattern present to our 
inward vision (§ 13). And all love implies, besides itself, a loving 
subject and a loved object: three entities, one of which (love) 
is link between the other two.] 


THE TEXT 

I. We have already observed that the only terms which can 
strictly be applied to distinguish the several Persons of the 
Trinity are those which denote their mutal relations: Father, 
Son, and Holy Spirit, Gift of both. The Trinity is neither Father 
nor Son nor Gift. But the terms applicable to the several Persons, 
regarded in themselves, denote not three beings in the plural, 
but one, that is, the Trinity itself: thus the Father is God, the 
Son God, the Holy Spirit God; the Father is good, the Son good, 
the Holy Spirit good; the Father almighty, the Son almighty, 
the Holy Spirit almighty; yet there are not three Gods, or three 
good, or three almighty; but one God, good, almighty ^ — the 
Trinity itself; and so for every other term which denotes not a 
mutual relation, but the several Persons regarded in them- 
selves. We may describe such terms as “essential”; for the 
essence or being of God is the same as his being great, good, 
wise, and anything else which is true either of each several 
Person or of the Trinity itself. We use the expression three Persons, 
or three substances, not to suggest any difference in essence, but 

1 Phraseology adopted in the Quicumque vult. 



THE TRINITY 39 

to furnish ourselves with some one word by which to answer 
the question: What are these '‘three”? ^ 

In this Trinity there is an absolute equality. In divinity the 
Father is not greater than the Son; nor are the Father and the 
Son together greater than the Holy Spirit; nor is any single 
Person of the three anything less than the Trinity itself. All this 
has been said before, and repetition may familiarize our minds 
with the idea. But there must be a limit to repetition. Let us 
now beseech God, with reverent devotion, that he will open 
our understandings, and remove from us all contentiousness of 
spirit, so that our mind may contemplate the essence of truth, 
free from all thought of physical mass or motion. It is now our 
purpose, so far as the Creator’s own wonderful mercy may assist 
us, to address ourselves to the same theme as before, but by a 
more inward method of approach: still observing the same rule, 
that the truth which has not yet become luminous to our under- 
standing be still held fast by faith. 

2 (i). We say that in this Trimty two or three Persons are 
not any greater thing than one of them. Our material habit of 
thought fails to grasp this, simply because, while it is aware ac- 
cording to its capacity of those truly existing things which have 
been created, it cannot perceive the Truth itself which has created 
them.^ If it could, the fact of which we have spoken would be as 
clear as the light of day. Only Truth itself has true being: in its 
substance there is nothing "greater” but that which more truly 
is. But in the realm of the spiritual and the changeless there 
cannot be degrees of truth; for all is equally changeless and 
eternal. What is called "great” is great only because it truly is. 
If then "greatness” is truth itself, to have more greatness must 
mean to have more truth: that which has not more truth cannot 
have more greatness. Whatever has more truth is the truer, just 
as whatever has more greatness is the greater. In this realm 
therefore the truer is the greater. But Father and Son together 
have no more true being than the Father alone or the Son alone. 
Both together, then, are no greater a thing than either of them 
singly. And since the Holy Spirit no less truly is, no more are 

2 Augustine has examined the inadequacy of the Latin term persona and 
the Greek hypostasis m Book VI I . see Introduction, p. 22. 

3 Throughout this passage, “truth” stands for the Platonic “true being” or 
absolute reality, which belongs to nothing in the world of sense Like 
Plato, Augustine holds that m this world things have no more than a 
“degree” of reality, varying according to their measure of likeness to, or 
participation in the absolute reality or “Truth” which is God himself 



AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


40 

Father and Son together anything greater than the Spirit, 
because they are nothing that more truly is. The Father and the 
Holy Spirit together, since they do not surpass the Son in truth 
(for they have no more true a being), do not surpass him in 
greatness. So the Son and the Holy Spirit together are as great 
a thing as the Father alone, because they no less truly are. And 
the Trinity itself has the same greatness as any one Person: the 
Person who is not truer is not greater, where truth itself is great- 
ness. In the essential being of truth, to be true is to be: to be is 
to be great. To be great, therefore, is to be true. Here therefore 
what is equally true must be equally great. 

3 (ii). In the case of material things, one piece of gold may 
be as true as another, and yet not as great, because here great- 
ness is not the same thing as truth: it is one thing to be gold, 
another to be great. Similarly with the soul, we do not call a 
soul true in respect of the same quality which makes us call it 
great. A true soul belongs no less to him who is not great- 
souled. For the essence of body and soul is not the essence of 
truth Itself, as the Trinity is God, one, sole, great, truly real, 
really true, true reality. If we would conceive of him, so far as 
he allows and vouchsafes, we must conceive of no spatial con- 
tact or connection, no conjoined structure like that of the three- 
bodied Geryon in the legend. Any image of that kind, greater in 
its three parts than in any one of them, less in one than in two, 
must be unhesitatingly rejected, even as we reject everything 
that is material. Even in the world of spirit, nothing that is 
changeable must be taken for God. When we rise from the deep 
submergence in which we live, and draw breath towards the 
heights of heaven, it will be matter of no small knowledge for 
us, before we are yet able to know what God is, if we can at least 
know what he is not. Certainly he is neither earth nor sky, nor 
of the nature of earth and sky or of anything that we see in the 
sky or that may perhaps exist there though we see it not. 
Multiply in your imagination the light of the sun, make it 
greater and brighter as you will, a thousand times or times out 
of number: God will not be there. Conceive the being of pure 
angelic spirits, animating celestial bodies,"^ changing and turn- 
ing them at will for the service of God: not if all those thousand 
thousands were brought together and made one, will God be any 
such thing — ^not even if you could conceive those same spirits 

^ I e., not the stars, but the “celestial bodies*’ of which Paul speaks in 
I Cor ch 15 But in Enchtnd., 15 (Iviu), Augustine says it may be that 
sun, moon, etc , belong to the same “company” as the Angels. 



THE TRINITY 


41 

as bodiless, difficult as that is for our materially determined 
thinking. Behold, if thou canst, thou soul heavily burdened by 
the body of corruption, ^ laden with earthy conceits many and 
diverse, behold if thou canst: God is Truth. It is written, “For 
God is light’’ ® — not the hght seen by these eyes of ours, but 
that which the heart sees upon hearing of the words “He is 
Truth.” Ask not. What is Truth? At once will rise the fogs of 
material images, the thick clouds of phantasm, and darken that 
clear empyrean which shone forth for a single instant upon your 
sight at that word, “Truth.” In that instant, that flash of vision 
that touches you with the word “Truth,” hold fast — ^if you can. 
But you cannot: you fall back into this familiar world of earthly 
things. And what — I ask you — is the weight that pulls you down 
again, but the defilements contracted from the mire of passion 
and the delusions of your wanderings? ^ 

4 (iii). Try once again, and consider the matter this way. 
Nothing draws your love but what is good. Good is earth with 
its lofty mountains, its gentle hills, its level plains. Good is the 
beauteous and fertile land, good the well-built house with its 
symmetry, its spaciousness and light. Good are the bodies of 
living things, good is the temperate and wholesome air, good is 
the pleasant and healthful food, good is health itself free from 
pain and weariness. Good is the human face with its regular 
features, its cheerful expression, its lively colouring; good is the 
heart of a friend whose comradeship is sweet and whose love is 
loyal; good is a righteous man, good is wealth for the things it 
can enable us to do, good is the sky with its sun, moon, and 
stars, good are the angels of holy obedience, good is the speech 
that instructs the hearer winningly and counsels him appro- 
priately, good is the poem of musical rhythm and profound 
thought. But enough! This is good and that is good: take away 
“this” and “that,” and look if you can upon Good itself, then 
you will see God, good not by the possession of any other good 
thing, but the goodness of every good. For among all these good 
things, those I have named and any others you may see or con- 
ceive, we could not pronounce with a true judgment any one 
better than another, were there not imprinted on our mind the 

5 The allusion is to Wisdom 9 1 5, which expresses the Greek view of the 
relation of body and soul 

6 I John I 5 

7 Cf Conf , VII, 1 7 this “flash of vision” and the inevitable relapse, con- 
stantly described by Augustine, is what he had experienced in his own 
attempts to achieve the mystic elevation of the Neo-Platomst 



AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


42 

idea ® of Good itself, as the standard by which we should either 
approve or prefer. So our love must rise to God, not as we love 
this or that good thing, but as the Good itself. The soul must 
needs seek that Good over which it will not range superior as 
judge but to which it will cleave m love. And what is that Good 
but God? — not the good soul, the good angel, the good heavens, 
but the good Good! 

Perhaps this may make it easier to grasp what I mean. When 
I hear, for instance, the phrase ‘‘good soul,” those two words 
convey two things to my mind: that there is a soul, and that it is 
good. It was no act of its own that made it a soul, for it was not 
there to bring itself into being. But for it to be a good soul, I can 
see that voluntary action of its own was needed: not that there 
is no good m its very existence as a soul, for then it could not be 
called, and truly called, better than a body. But it is not yet to 
be called a good soul, because there needs yet the activity of 
will to give it excellence. If that activity is neglected, it rightly 
incurs blame and is properly called no good soul. It differs from 
the soul that is so active, and since the latter deserves praise, 
clearly the former’s failure so to act must deserve censure. But 
when a soul sets itself to this purpose and is becoming good, it 
cannot achieve its end unless it be directed towards something 
which is not itself. Yet to what may the soul turn so as to become 
good, but to the Good, loving, pursuing, attaining it? If it turn 
away again, and lose its goodness by the very act of turning away 
from good, there will be nothing to which it may return once 
more (if it desire to amend), unless that Good from which it is 
declining abides still in itself. 

5. It follows that there could be no changeable goods, were 
there not a Good that is changeless. You hear the word “good” 
applied to this and that, things which at another time may be 
called not good. See then if you can pass beyond the things 
which are good by virtue of their share in goodness, and rise to 
the vision of that Good whose partial presence makes them good. 
You must know the meaning of Good itself, when you hear that 
this or that is good. If then you can set them aside and reach the 
sight of Good in itself, you will have reached the sight of God; 
and if you shall cleave to him in love, you will in that moment 
receive beatitude.® Other things are loved only because they are 

s This notio Bom is not of course the Platonic ‘Tdea of Good,” but its 

reflection in the mind 

^ Augustine here describes what for him is only a theoretical possibility. 

When he wrote the De Tnmtate, he had long ceased to believe that the 

vision of God was attainable in this life 



THE TRINITY 


43 

good. It were shame to stay cleaving to them and not to love 
the Good itself which makes them good. A soul may not yet 
have the goodness of conversion to the changeless Good; but 
simply as a soul, we may give it a value (if we rightly apprehend) 
higher than that of any material luminary. Yet its value for 
us lies not in itself but m the creative art that made it: it is our 
seeing that it was worth the making that makes us approve it 
as made. 

This is the Truth, the absolute Good — ^nothing else but Good 
itself, and therefore the highest good; for the only good that can 
be dimimshed or increased is that whose goodness is derived 
from another good. The soul’s goodness, then, comes from its 
conversion to that same Source which has made it a soul. The 
soul’s perfecting in goodness comes from the conforming of will 
to nature, when the will turns in love towards that Good from 
which is derived the existence that cannot be lost, even if the 
will turns away from its Source. When it turns away from the 
highest Good, the soul ceases to be a good soul, but not to be a 
soul — ^which is itself a good that is superior to body. The will 
loses what the will gams; for the soul already existed, with power 
to will its turning towards its Source, but it was not there to will 
to be a soul before it existed. The good for us is to see how it was 
or is right for that thing to be, the rightness of which we can 
understand; and if there is anything of which we cannot under- 
stand the rightness, to see that it could not have been unless it 
was right for it to be. And this Good is not far from each one of 
us: for “in him we live and move and have our being.” 

6 (iv) . But we have to stand fast by that Good in love, and 
cleave to it, that we may enjoy the presence of him from whom 
we have our being, and m whose absence we could not be at all. 
“We walk by faith as yet, and not by sight”: not yet do we see 
God, as the same apostle says, “face to face.” But unless we 
already love him, we shall never see him. 

Yet how can we love what we do not know? A thing may be 
known and not loved; but we may question whether that which 
is not known can be loved: if it cannot, no-one can love God 
before he knows him. To know God means to perceive him with 
the assured grasp of the mind* he is not a body to be observed 
with the eye of flesh. But to see and apprehend God, as he may 
be seen and apprehended, is given to the pure in heart: they, 
we read, are “blessed, for they shall see God.” And before we 

Acts 17*27 f 11 II Cor, 5 7 

12 I Cor. 13 12. 1^ Matt. 5 8. 



AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


44 

have gained strength for that seeing, there can be no purifying 
of the heart to make it fit to see him, unless he be loved by faith. 
Faith, hope, and chanty, those three virtues for whose building 
up is mounted all the scaffolding of the Bible, are only in the 
soul that believes what it sees not yet, and hopes and loves what 
it beheves. Therefore there can be love even of him who is not 
known, if yet he is beheved. Doubtless, we must beware lest the 
soul, believing what it does not see, feign for itself an image of 
that which is not, and put its hope and love upon a lie. Then 
there will not be that “charity from a pure heart and a good 
conscience and a faith unfeigned, which is the end of the com- 
mandment,” as Paul says. 

7. When we acquire beliefs from the reading or hearing of 
material things which we have not seen, the mind cannot but 
form for itself some image in outhne and shape such as may 
present itself to thought. But it will not be a true image: or if it 
is, as may very exceptionally happen, there will be no advantage 
in retaining it for the maintenance of our belief, though it may 
serve a purpose in suggesting to us something else. Most people 
who read or hear the wntings of Paul or his history will form 
some picture of his appearance, and of that of all the other per- 
sons whose names occur in connection with his. Of all the many 
people who know his letters, one will picture the forms and 
features of these persons in one way, one in another, but none 
can say whose picture is the nearest resemblance. Our belief is 
not concerned with the outward appearance of the men, but 
only with the fact that by the grace of God their lives and doings 
were what the Scripture tells us. That is the belief which is both 
profitable and attainable, and the belief we should seek for. The 
bodily appearance of the Lord himself is represented by an in- 
numerable variety of mental images; but whatever it actually 
was, it was not more than one. In our faith concerning the Lord 
Jesus Christ, the salutary element is not in the mental image, 
which may be a long way from the facts, but in the idea of 
Man: fixed in our knowledge is a definite standard of human 
nature, by which we immediately recognize, upon seeing that 
which conforms to it, that this is a man or a human form, 
(v) . By this knowledge our thought is shaped, when we believe 
that God was made man for us, to be an example of humility, 
and to prove God’s love towards us. What is good for us to be- 

1 '* I Tim 1 5 — in what follows Augustine uses the expression “faith un- 
feigned” for a belief that is not grounded on baseless imagininp, and so 
cannot deceive. 



THE TRINITY 


45 

lieve and to keep firm and unshaken in our hearts, is that the 
humility whereby God was born of a woman and brought by 
mortal men that shameful way to death, is the supreme medica- 
ment for the healing of the cancer of our pride, and the pro- 
found mystery that can loose the fetters of sin. So also it is 
because we have the idea of omnipotence that we believe the 
power of his miracles and of his resurrection to have come from 
the omnipotent God; and we think of such facts in accordance 
with our systematic knowledge of general and specific notions, 
whether innate or acquired by experience, so that our faith be 
not feigned. We do not know the appearance of the virgin 
Mary, of whom Christ was marvellously born, so that both in 
conceiving and in giving birth her virginity was preserved. We 
do not know the figure of Lazarus: we have not seen Bethany, 
the grave or the stone which Christ made them take away when 
he raised him from the dead, nor that new tomb cut m the 
rock from which he himself rose, nor the mount of Olivet where 
he ascended into heaven. And if we have not seen them, we are 
wholly ignorant whether they are as we imagine them: indeed 
we suppose it the more likely that they are not. For if ever a 
place or a person or any physical object presents to our eyes the 
same appearance as it had in our imagination before we saw it, 
we are struck with astomshment — so rarely does it happen, if 
ever. Yet we have a most firm belief in the Gospel story, because 
we conceive it in accordance with our assured knowledge of 
general and specific notions. We believe that the Lord Jesus 
Christ was born of a virgin called Mary: but what is a virgin, 
what IS to be bom, what is a proper name, we do not beheve 
but simply know. Whether Mary had that form which comes to 
our mind when we tell or remember the story, we neither know 
nor believe. And so without damage to faith we may say, ^‘Per- 
haps she was like this, perhaps she was not.” But “Perhaps 
Christ was born of a virgin” is what no-one can say without 
damage to his Christian faith. 

8. Now it is our desire to gain such understanding as may be 
granted us of the Trinity, its eternity, its equality, its unity. But 
before we can understand, we have to believe, and we must take 
care that our faith be not feigned; for our happiness rests upon 
the fruition of the Trinity, and if our belief about it be false, our 
hope will be vain and our love not pure. How then can we love, 
through believing, the Trinity which we do not know? The love 
which we can have for Paul is based upon a knowledge of 
general and specific ideas. We may be entirely ignorant of his 



AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


46 

appearance, which may have been quite different from our 
imagination of it. Yet we know what a man is, for we need go 
no further than what we are ourselves. Plainly, Paul was a man: 
his soul was linked to a body, and lived a mortal life. We be- 
lieve of him what we find in ourselves according to the genus or 
species in which every human nature is equally contained. But 
knowledge of genus and species can tell us nothing of the trans- 
cendent Trinity: there are not a number of such trinities, ex- 
perience of some of which could enable us to form a generalized 
notion, and believe that the divine Trinity is similar; and so, 
by analogy with what we know, love that which not yet knowing 
we believe. No: we can love our Lord Jesus Christ’s resurrection 
from the dead, although we have never seen anyone so rise 
again; but we cannot in the same way love, through believing, 
the Trinity which we do not see and the like of which we have 
never seen. We know what death and life are, because we are 
alive and we have seen and experienced the death and the 
dying of others. To rise again, then, is simply to return to life. 
But when we say and believe that the Trinity exists, we know 
indeed what the word ‘‘Trinity” means, since we know the 
meaning of “three”; but that is not what we love. We can 
have “three” whenever we like, by holding up three fingers. Is 
that which we love, then, not any Trinity but the Trinity which 
is God? Is it God in the Trinity that we love? But we neither 
have seen nor know any other God; for there is but one only 
God whom we have not yet seen, whom through believing we 
love. The question is, what likeness or comparability in things 
we know can form the belief by which we may love God, before 
he is known? 

9 (vi). Let us go back, and consider why we love the 
apostle. Not, surely, because of that form of humanity which is 
familiar to us and which we believe he shared. If it were so, our 
love would now have no object, for his soul and body are 
divided and he exists no longer in human form.^^ That which we 
love in him, we believe is now living, for we love the righteous 
soul. But this implies reference to a pattern of genus or species — 
that we know what a soul is, and what “righteous” is. Now we 
may properly say that we know what a soul is, because we our- 
selves have a soul. We have never seen it with our eyes or formed 
a generic conception from a number of things seen; we know it 

The Latin tnnitas means simply “triad,” not “three-in-one-ness ” 

16 Augustine defines “man” as “a reasonable soul having a body” {In Jo 

Ev Tr XIX, 15). 



THE TRINITY 


47 

because we have it. I know nothing more intimately than that 
which I am aware of being, that by which I am aware of all 
things else — the soul itself. The bodily movements by which we 
are aware of the hfe of others, we recognize from their likeness 
to our own: life makes us move our bodies as we observe other 
bodies moving. When a hving body moves, our eyes do not find 
their way in to a vision of the soul, which eyes cannot see, but 
we are aware that in that bodily mass there is something of the 
same kind as we have in ourselves to move our own bodily mass 
— namely, life and soul. And this is not peculiar to human 
intelligence and reason: animals are aware of hfe not only in 
themselves but in one another and in us. They do not see our 
souls, but become aware of them from movements of the body 
with a simple and instinctive immediacy. From our own soul 
then we draw the knowledge of soul in anyone else and the 
belief of it when we do not know it. We are not only aware of 
the soul but are able to know what soul is by the consideration 
of our own; for we have a soul. 

But how do we know what is ‘'righteous’’? We said that the 
only reason for our love of the apostle is that he is a “righteous 
soul” : we must know then what “righteous” is, as well as what is 
“soul.” What “soul” is, we know from ourselves as we have said; 
for there is soul in us. But how do we know what is “righteous,” 
if we are not righteous? If none but he who is righteous 
knows what “righteous” is, none can love the righteous but the 
righteous. The mere belief that a man is righteous cannot make 
you love him, if you do not know what “righteous” is. As we 
have already shown, one can only love what one believes with- 
out seeing, on the basis of some standard conception of genus or 
species. If then none can love the righteous but the righteous, 
how can anyone who is not yet righteous desire to be so? For no- 
one desires to be what he does not love. Yet it is impossible to 
become righteous without willing it; and to will it one must love 
the righteous. It follows that a man not yet righteous himself 
can love the righteous; but this cannot be if he does not know 
what “righteous” is. We must allow that a man not yet righteous 
may know the meaning of the word; and we ask whence such 
knowledge comes. Clearly not by the visual sense: a body is not 
righteous, as it is white or black, square or round; and nothing 
but bodies are seen by the eyes. The righteous element in man 
is the soul, and a man is called righteous in virtue of his soul 
and not his body. Righteousness is a beauty of the soul which 
can exist in men whose bodies are deformed or ugly; and the 



48 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

soul’s beauty no more than the soul itself is visible to the out- 
ward eye. Whence then can a man not yet righteous learn the 
meaning of the word, and through loving the righteous become 
righteous himself? Bodily movements might give indications of 
righteousness in this or that man; but if one were wholly ig- 
norant of the meaning of “righteous,” one could not recognize 
that such were signs of a righteous soul. The problem remains. 
Somehow or other we know what “righteous” means, before 
we are righteous ourselves. If that knowledge comes from the 
external world, it must be derived from some bodily source; 
but its object does not belong to the bodily realm at all. It 
must therefore be in ourselves that we learn the meaning of the 
term “righteous.” When I look for the proper way to describe 
it, I can find the answer nowhere but in my own mind. If I ask 
another man, he must look vwthin for his answer; and no-one 
can give a true answer unless he has found it in himself. When 
I want to describe Carthage, I enquire of myself and I find an 
image of Carthage in my own mind. But I have got it by way of 
sense perception, having been in the town in bodily presence, 
seen it and remembered it, so that the right word will be at my 
disposal whenever I want to describe it. Its “word” is the 
actual image in my memory — not the sound of two syllables 
when I say “Carthage,” nor the silent passing of the name 
through the mind: it is the object of my inward vision, when I 
pronounce, or before I pronounce, the two syllables “Car- 
thage.” Similarly, if I want to describe Alexandria which I 
have never seen, an image of it is at my disposal. I have been 
credibly informed that it is a great city, and have constructed a 
picture of it as described to me to the best of my abihty. And 
that is the “word” of it in my mind, when I want to speak of it, 
before I pronounce the five syllables of the well-known name. 
But if I could display my mental picture to people who know 
Alexandria, they would assuredly say “That is not it!” — or if 
they said “It is,” I should be greatly surprised, and when I 
considered the picture in my mind I should still not know that 
it was Alexandria: I should only believe those who had seen it. 

But this is not how I enquire the meaning of “righteous” : it 
is not how I find it or contemplate it when I describe it, how my 
description is accepted or how I accept another’s descriptioii. 
It is not as though I had seen anything of the kind or perceived 
it, by any bodily sense, or heard of it from others who had their 
knowledge in that way. When I say, and say with knowledge, 
that “the righteous soul is that which by rational principle in 



THE TRINITY 


49 

life and conduct assigns to each his own/’ not thinKng 

of an absent object hke Carthage, or imagining one like Alex- 
andria correctly or incorrectly. I perceive something present^ 
perceive it in myself, though I am not myself what I perceive. 
Many, on hearing me, may accept my description; but whoever 
does so knowledgeably will himself be perceiving in himself the 
same thing, though he be not himself what he perceives. When 
a righteous man says it, he is perceiving and saying what he 
himself is; but he too perceives it “in himself.” That is natural 
enough: where should he see himself but in himself? The sur- 
prising thing is that the mind or soul should see in itself what 
It has seen nowhere else, that it should see truly, see the truly 
righteous soul, being itself soul yet not the righteous soul which 
it sees in itself. We can hardly suppose the presence of another 
righteous soul in the soul which is not yet righteous. But then 
what is present to the soul when it sees and defines the righteous 
soul, and sees it entirely in itself though itself is not righteous? 
Our answer is, that what it sees is an inward truth present to the 
soul that has the power to contemplate it. Not all have the 
power; and those that have are not all themselves what they 
contemplate — not all themselves righteous souls, though they 
can see and define the righteous soul. They can only become it 
themselves, by cleaving to that same form or pattern which they 
contemplate, being conformed to it and becoming righteous 
souls: not only perceiving and declaring that the righteous soul 
is “that which by rational principle m life and conduct assigns 
to each his own,” but by making righteous life and conduct 
their own, assigning to each his own, “owing no man anything 
but to love one another.” The only way of cleaving to that 
pattern is by love. If we love another man whom we believe 
righteous, we cannot but love the pattern itself which shows us 
what the righteous soul is, in order that we too may become 
righteous. Indeed, did we not love the pattern, we could have 
no love for the man; for our love for him is based upon the 
pattern: it is only that so long as we are not righteous our love 
of it is insufficient to make us righteous. 

Our conclusion is that love for the man who is believed 
righteous is based upon that pattern and truth which the lover 
perceives and apprehends in himself. But love for the pattern 
and the truth itself cannot be based upon anything extraneous. 

17 The definition of JusUUa given by Cicero in De Ftn , V, 33, and set at the 
beginning of Justinian’s Institutes as the basis of Roman law. 

18 Rom. 13:8. 



AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


50 

We cannot find anything outside itself, so that our belief in it 
and our love for it, when it is still unknown, might be based on 
a previous knowledge of anything of the kind. It is itself the 
thing you behold wherever you behold anything of the kind, 
indeed there is nothing else “of the kind,” for it alone is what it 
is. Accordingly our love for men must have their righteousness 
either as the cause or as the purpose of our love. In the same 
way a man’s own righteousness must be either cause or purpose 
of his love for himself* only so can he safely love his neighbour 
as himself. If his self-love has any other ground, it is an un- 
righteous self-love, for he will be loving himself so as to be un- 
righteous — and therefore to be evil, so that it will be no real 
self-love; for “he who loves iniquity, hateth his own soul.” 

10 (vii). It follows that in this enquiry concerning the 
Trinity and our knowledge of God, the first thing for us to learn 
is the nature of true love — or rather the nature of love; for only 
the love which is true deserves the name. All other is covetous- 
ness: it is a misuse of language when the covetous are said to 
love, as it is when those who love are said to covet. The aim of 
true love is the life of righteousness in cleaving to the truth; and 
this means that nothing in this world should have any weight 
for us beside the love of men, which means the will that they 
may live righteously.*® That gives all the value to the readiness 
to die for our brethren, which the Lord Jesus Christ taught us 
by his example. There are two commandments on which hang 
all the Law and the Prophets: love of God and love of neigh- 
bour; but it is not without reason that the Scripture often puts 
one of them for both. Sometimes it is the love of God. “We know 
that all things work together for good to them that love God.” *1 
“Whosoever loveth God, he is known of God.” ** “The love of 
God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Spirit which is 
given to us.” In such sayings it is imphed that he who loves 
God must do what God has commanded, that his love depends 
upon his doing, and so he must love his neighbour also, because 
this is what God has commanded. Sometimes Scripture men- 
tions only the love of neighbour. “Bear ye one another’s bur- 
dens, and so shall ye fulfil the law of Christ.” *+ “The whole law 
is fulfilled in one saying, namely. Thou shalt love thy neighbour 

Ps. 1 1 '5. 

2 ® “The will that men live righteously” includes the approval of righteous 

living where it is present. 

21 Rom 8 28 
23 Rom 5.5. 


22 I Cor 8 3. 
24 Gal 62 



THE TRINITY 


51 

as thyself.’’ 25 Qr as in the Gospel, “Whatsoever ye would that 
men should do unto you, even so do unto them; for this is the 
Law and the Prophets.” There are many other places in Holy 
Writ, where it seems that the love of neighbour is alone en- 
joined for our perfecting, and nothing is said of the love of God; 
though the Law and the Prophets hang upon both command- 
ments. The reason for this is that he who loves his neighbour 
must necessarily have first the love for love itself.27 But “God is 
love, and he who abideth in love, abideth in God” 28 It follows 
that he must have first the love of God. 

1 1 . Those who seek God by way of the spiritual powers 29 set 
over the world or its parts, drift far away from him — separated 
not by space but by difference of affection. They strive towards 
the external, and desert what lies within them, though God is 
more inward than the innermost. They may have heard or con- 
ceived of some holy celestial power; but what draws them is the 
admiration that human weakness feels for the works of such a 
power, rather than the model of reverent submission which 
attains to the rest of God. They choose rather the pride of 
angelic potency than the devotion of angelic being. No holy 
person rejoices in his own power, but in the power of him from 
whom is derived all potency for fitting action. He knows that it 
is a mightier thing to be united in willing worship to the 
omnipotent, than to display in his own power and will a 
potency which is fearful to those who have it not. So when the 
Lord Jesus Christ himself wrought miracles, he sought to convey 
to those who marvelled a fuller truth, to turn them from their 
absorption in temporal portents to things inward and eternal. 
“Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I 
will refresh you: take my yoke upon you.” He does not say 
“Learn of me, for I raise up them that have been dead four 
days”; but, “Learn of me, for I am meek and lowly of heart.” 
The firm ground of humility is stronger and safer than any 
windy elevation. So he goes on, “And ye shall find rest for 
your souls.” For “Love is not puffed up”: “God is love”: 
“the faithful in love shall rest in him,” called back from the 
noisy outer world to the joyful silences. 

25 Gal 5.14 Matt 7 12. 

27 That love in action implies the ‘*love of love,” i.e , the will to love, is 
axiomatic for Augustine 28 i John 416 

29 Augustine is thinking of the “worshippmg of angels” condemned by Paul 
in CoL 2 16, which he extends to cover heathenism generally 
20 Matt 1 1 *28 f I Cor 13 4, I John 4 8, Wisdom 3 9. 



AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


52 

^‘God is love/’ Why should we go speeding to the height of 
heaven and the nethermost parts of the earth, seeking for him 
who is with us, if we would but be with him? 12 (viii). Let 
none say: ‘‘I do not know what I am to love.” Let him love his 
brother, and he will love that same love: he knows the love 
whereby he loves better than the brother whom he loves. God 
can be more known to him than his brother — really more 
known, because more present; more known because more in- 
ward; more known, because more sure. Embrace the love that 
is God: through love embrace God. He is the very love that 
links together in holy bond all good angels and all God’s ser- 
vants, and unites them and us to one another and in obedience 
to himself. The more we are clean from the cancer of pride, the 
more are we filled with love; and he who is filled with love is 
filled with God. 

But now you will say: “Charity indeed I see; I fix my mind’s 
eye upon it as best I may; I believe the word of Scripture, that 
God is charity, and he that abideth in charity abideth in God. 3 2 
But my vision of charity is not a vision of the Trinity.” Well, 
let me try to make you see that it is, trusting that Charity itself 
be present to move us to a good end. The charity that we love 
is a loving charity, and it is because it loves that we love it. What 
then is the object of charity’s love, which makes charity itself 
lovable? If it loves nothing, it is not charity. If it loves itself, it 
cannot love itself as chanty^ unless itself have some object. A 
transitive word denotes itself as well as connotes its object, but 
it does not denote itself as transitive word, unless it denotes itself 
as connoting an object; similarly charity may love itself, but 
only if it love itself as having an object of its love will it be loving 
itself as charity. The object of charity’s love must be something 
which charity makes us love; and that, if we are to start from 
what is nearest, is our brother. Remember the apostle John’s 
commendation of brotherly love: “Whosoever loveth his 
brother, abideth in the light, and there is no cause of stumbling 
in him.” 33 Evidently he has set the perfection of righteousness 
in the love of brother : he in whom there is no cause of stumbling 
is plainly perfect. Yet he seems to have said nothing of the love 
of God. The only explanation of that is that he means God to be 
comprehended in brotherly love itself. And a little later in the 
Epistle he says explicitly: “Beloved, let us love one another; for 
love is of God; and everyone that loveth is born of God and 
knoweth God. He that loveth not, hath not known God; for 
32 I John 4.16. 33 I John 2:10. 



THE TRINITY 


53 

God is love.” ^4 Xhe train of thought makes it clear enough, that 
this same brotherly love (the love wherewith we love another) 
is being proclaimed with apostolic authority to be not only ‘*of 
God,” but ‘'God.” It is God, then that causes us to love our 
brother, when love causes us to do so; and the first object of 
our love must needs be that very love wherewith we love 
our brother. 

We infer from this that the Two Commandments cannot be 
separated. “God is love.” He who loves love, assuredly loves 
God: he who loves his brother, must necessarily love love. So 
we read soon after: “He that loveth not his brother whom he 
sees, cannot love God whom he seeth not.” The reason of his 
not seeing God is that he does not love his brother. He who does 
not love his brother is not in love, and he who is not in love is 
not in God, for God is love. Again, he who is not in God is not 
in the light; for “God is light, and there is no darkness in 
him.” Naturally, then, he who is not in the light does not see 
the light, which means that he does not see God; because he is 
in darkness. He sees his brother with the outward human vision 
to which God is invisible. But if he loved with spiritual charity 
the brother whom his outward vision sees, he would see God, 
who is Charity itself, with the inward vision whereby God can 
be seen. Thus he who loves not the brother whom he sees cannot 
love God, whom he does not see just because God is the love 
which he lacks. We need not be disturbed by the question, How 
much charity ought we to give to our brother and how much 
to God? The answer is, To God incomparably more than to 
ourselves, and to our brother as much as to ourselves; ourselves 
we love the more, the more we love God. It is, then, out of one 
and the same charity that we love God and our neighbour: but 
we love God for God’s sake, and for God’s sake ourselves and 
our neighbour. 

13 (ix). What is it, I would ask, that kindles the fire in our 
hearts, when we hear or read such words as these? — “Behold, 
now is the acceptable time, behold, now is the day of salvation: 
giving no occasion of stumbling in anything, that our ministra- 
tion be not blamed, but in everything commending ourselves 
as God’s ministers: in much patience, in affiictions, in necessities, 
in distresses, in stripes, in imprisonments, in tumults, in labours, 
in watchings, in fastings; in pureness, in knowledge, in long- 
suffering, in kindness, in the Holy Ghost, in charity unfeigned, 
in the word of truth, in the power of God; by the armour of 
34 I John 4: 7 f. 35 1 John 4: 20. 36 I John i : 5. 



AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


54 

righteousness on the right hand and on the left, by glory and 
dishonour, by evil report and good report; as deceivers and yet 
true, as unknown and yet well known, as dying, and behold, we 
live; as chastened, and not killed, as sorrowful, yet always re- 
joicing, as poor, yet making many rich, as having notliing, and 
yet possessing all things.” — If the love of Paul the apostle is 
kindled in us at this reading, surely it is because we believe 
that his life was like that. But that God’s ministers ought so to 
live, is not a thing we believe on hearsay: it is what we see 
within ourselves, or rather above ourselves, in very truth. The 
Paul whom we believe so to have lived, we love because of what 
we see. And were it not that above all we loved that pattern 
which we perceive in everlasting fixity and changelessness, we 
should not love the apostle because we retain the faith that his 
life in the flesh was correspondent and accordant to that pat- 
tern. Yet we find that we are somehow stirred more largely to 
love of the pattern itself, through the faith by which we believe 
that a man has lived in accord with it, and by the hope which 
forbids us, since there have been men who so lived, to despair 
of ourselves who are men like them being able to live like them; 
so that we desire it more ardently and pray for it more con- 
fidently, What makes us love their life is the love of that pattern 
according to which we believe they lived; and their life, when 
we believe it, stirs m us towards the same pattern a more burn- 
ing charity. So that the stronger burns our love for God, the 
more sure and unclouded is our vision of him; because in God 
we behold the changeless pattern of righteousness, in accord 
with which we make our judgment that a man should live. 

Faith then avails for the knowledge and the love of God, not 
as though he were wholly unknown or wholly unloved before, 
but that he may be known more clearly and loved more stead- 
fastly, 14 (x). Now the charity praised and preached with such 
energy by divine Scripture, what is it but love of the good? 
Love is the activity of a lover, and it has a certain object. There, 
then, we have three things: the lover, that which is loved, and 
love. 3 8 Love itself is nothing but a land of life which couples 
together or seeks to couple some two entities, the lover and the 

37 11 Cor. 6:2 ff. 

38 Augustine thus fulfils his undertaking (i i (vii) above) to display a trinity 
in love, but immediately warns the reader that this trinity is not “what 
we seek”* the reason being that the loved object is something external 
to the lover. It is worth noting how small a place this particular analogy 
occupies m his thought. 



THE TRINITY 


55 

loved. This is so in the carnal loves of the external world; but 
let us leave the flesh beneath our feet and rise to the soul, where 
we may drink of a purer and more limpid spring. What does 
any friend love in his friend but the soul? There too are the 
three: the lover, the loved, and love. A further ascent still re- 
mains for us, a higher realm in which our search is to be pur- 
sued, so far as men may. But here we may pause — not supposing 
we have found what we seek, but having found (as seekers do) 
the place in which to look. We have found, not the thing itself, 
but where it is to be sought; and that will suffice to give us a 
point from which a fresh start may be undertaken. 



Book IX 

The Trinity of Mind, Knowledge, and Love 
ARGUMENT 


[We begin by considering the triad of love, lover, and beloved 
on the human level; for man is at least an image of God. But the 
human mind loves itself. Then subject and object coincide, and 
we have two entities instead of three, the mind and its love: two 
as related to one another, but together one as a spiritual 
reality (§2). 

So far there is no trinity. But self-love implies self-knowledge, 
and once more we have three entities: the mind, its love, and 
its knowledge, in their perfect or ideal condition corresponding 
to one another in an absolute co-equality (§§ 3, 4). Self-know- 
ledge and self-love are not properties attributable to the mind 
as subject, but themselves substantive realities, though not 
independent since essentially relative to one another (§§ 5, 6), 
Nor are they parts of a whole, or elements in a mixture: they 
are of one and the same substance, reciprocally inherent 
(§§7.8). 

We must distinguish, however, between the individual human 
mind as self-known and self-loved, which is no immutable 
reality, and the ideal form or pattern of mind which we recog- 
nize and approve in the light of truth (§§ 9-1 1). True know- 
ledge may be regarded as a “word,” conceived from our vision 
of truth and as it were “begotten” by inward speech (§ 12). — 
All our judgments of value, true or false, involve the production 
of such a “word,” which owes its “conception” to love, and its 
“bringing forth” to the conscious act of approval (§§ 13, 14). — 
“Word” may thus be defined as = knowledge + love (§15). 
Since all knowledge must exhibit a correspondence or likeness 
to its object, the mental “word” is also appropriately called an 
“image” (§ 16). Love, on the other hand, is not “begotten” of 

56 



THE TRINITY 


57 

the mind (§ 17), as is the mind’s knowledge of itself; for this 
knowledge is a discovery which presumes a search, and love is 
the motive of the seeking (§ 18).] 

THE TEXT 

I (i). The object of our present enquiry is Trinity — ^not a 
Trinity, but the Trinity which is God — the true, supreme, and 
only God. The reader then must be patient: we are stiU en- 
quiring, and such enquiry deserves no censure, provided that 
our search for what must baffle knowledge and expression be 
made in unshaken faith. Affirmation indeed calls at once and 
rightly for censure from any who may see and instruct to better 
purpose. “Seek God, and your soul shall live” but we are 
warned against all premature conceit of apprehension: “Seek 
his face alway.” 2 «‘if any man,” says Paul, “thinketh that he 
knoweth anything, he knoweth not yet how he ought to know. 
But whosoever loveth God, he is known of him.” ^ He does not 
say “hath known him,” which would be dangerous presump- 
tion, but “is known of him.” So elsewhere, after saying “now 
that ye have known God,” he at once corrects himself: “rather, 
are known of God” and most emphatic is that other passage: 
“Brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended; only, for- 
getting that which is behind and reaching out to those things 
which are before, I am intent to follow after the prize of the 
high calling of God in Christ Jesus. Let us, therefore, as many 
as be perfect, be thus minded.” ^ By perfection in this life he 
understands nothing but to forget the things which are behind, 
and to reach out intently after the things which are before. The 
safest intention is that of seeking continually until the goal of 
all our effort and our reaching out be attained. The intent is 
rightly directed only if it set out from faith. A sure faith is itself 
a beginning of knowledge; but sure knowledge will not be per- 
fected till after this life when we shall see face to face.^ Let us 
then be thus minded, convinced that the temper of the truth- 
seeker is safer than that of rashly taking the unknown for known. 
Let us seek as expecting to find, and let us find as expecting 
still to seek. For “when a man hath done, then he beginneth.” ^ 
Let us shun all doubt concerning matters of faith, let us refuse 
all hasty affirmation concerning matters of understanding: in 

1 Ps. 69*32. 21 Ps. 105:4. 3 I Cor. 8:2 f. ^ Gal. 4:9. 

5 Phil 3: 13 ff. 6 I Cor. 13U2. ^ Ecclesiasticus 18:7. 



58 Augustine: later works 

the one, holding to authority, in the other, seeking out the 
truth. 

As for our present enquiry, let us believe that Father, Son, 
and Holy Spirit are one God, maker and ruler of the whole 
creation: that Father is not Son, nor Holy Spirit Father or Son; 
but a Trinity of mutually related Persons, and a unity of equal 
essence. And let us seek to understand this truth, praying for the 
help of him whom we would understand, and desiring to set 
forth what we understand as he shall enable us, with such care- 
ful reverence as to speak nothing unworthily, even if we some- 
times speak mistakenly. Let us endeavour, for example, that if 
we say of the Father what properly does not belong to him, it 
may belong to the Son or to the Holy Spirit, or to the whole 
Trinity; that if we say something of the Son which does not 
properly apply to the Son, it may at leeist apply to the Father, 
or to the Holy Spirit, or to the whole Trinity; that if we say of 
the Holy Spirit what does not in strict propriety befit him, yet 
it be not foreign to the Father or to the Son, or to the one God 
which is the Tnnity itself. We may desire to see whether the 
Holy Spirit be properly that most excellent gift of charity. * If 
he is not, then either the Father is Charity, or the Son, or the 
whole Trinity; since we may not oppose the certainty of faith 
and most mighty authority of the Scripture which says “God 
is charily.” But we must never let the error of impiety so lead 
us astray that we speak of the Trinity that which belongs not to 
Creator but creature, or else is a product of vain imagining. 

2 (ii). In view of all this let us consider those three things to 
which our enquiry has brought us. We are not yet concerned 
with things in heaven, not yet with God, Father, Son, and Holy 
Spirit; but with this image, inferior but still an image, which is 
man — so much more familiar and less difficult for the infirmity 
of our mind to study. I, the enquirer, present in my love for 
anything three things: myself, what I love, and love itself. Love 
itself, if I love it, must have its object; for there is no love where 
nothing is loved. Lover, the loved, and love: these are three. 
But suppose my love’s object be myself; then the three become 
two — the object of love, and love. For when the lover loves 
himself, subject and object are the same; just as loving and being 
loved are in the love of self the same thing, there is no difference 
between the statements “he loves himseff,” and “he is loved by 
himself.” In that case, to love and to be loved are not two things, 

8 This question is not taken up for detailed consideration until Book XV, 

27 (xvii). 



THE TRINITY 


59 

any more than are the lover and the beloved two persons. But 
still the love and its object remain two. For self-love is not love, 
unless the love itself be loved; and to love oneself and to love 
one’s love are not the same thing, since (as we have said) love 
which is loved must already have its object, else it is no love.^ 
In self-love, then, there are two things present, love and what is 
loved: the lover and the loved being one. From which it appears 
that a triad is not necessarily impKed in the existence of love. 

Let us abstract from our present consideration all the other 
elements of which human nature is composed; and in order to 
find what we are looking for in as clear a form as the matter 
permits, let us take the mind in isolation. In the mind’s love 
for itself, two things are displayed — ^mind and love. Self-love 
is the will to be at one’s own disposal for self-enjoyment. If the 
mind wills to be no more and no less than what it is, then will 
corresponds to mind and love is equal to lover, lo If love is a 
really existing thing, it is not body but spirit. The same is true 
of the mind; yet the mind and its love are not two spirits, or 
two essences, iDut one, though this one thing is somehow two — 
lover and love, or (if you prefer to put it so) love and love’s 
object. And these two are mutually related terms; lover being 
related to love and love to lover; for it is by love that the lover 
loves, and love is the activity of a loving person. Mind and 
spirit, on the other hand, are not relative terms, but denote the 
essence in itself; the mind and spirit are not what they are be- 
cause they belong to a particular man. The term '‘man” con- 
notes body; but if we abstract the body, mind and spirit remain, 
whereas i we abstract the lover, there is no love, and if we 
abstract the love, there is no lover. Thus as mutually related 
terms, they are two: in themselves, each is spirit, and both 
together are one spirit; each is mind, and both together are 
one mind. Where then is there a trimty? Let us apply all our 
powers to the question, invoking the everlasting Light to 
illuminate our darkness, that we may see in ourselves as may 
be permitted to us the image of God. 

3 (iii). The mind cannot love itself unless it also knows 
itself. That it should love what it does not know is impossible. 
It would be folly to allege that the mind forms a general con- 
cept from its experience of other minds, and believes itself to 
belong to the same class of being. How can a mind, not knowing 

5 See VIII, 10 (vii) n Love as a relation remains a distinguishable reality, 

even when the subject and object related comcide. 

10 This pomt is developed in § 4 below. 



AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


6o 

itself, know any other mind? It cannot be compared with the 
body’s eye which sees other eyes but not itself. We see bodies 
with the bodily eyes, because the rays which flash from them 
and touch the thing seen cannot be reflected back upon the 
eyes, unless we are looking at a mirror. This is a very delicate 
and obscure subject, which needs much research before it can 
be clearly proved to be so or otherwise. “ But whatever be the 
truth about our power of vision, the power itself, whether it 
acts by rays or in some other way, is something that we cannot 
see with our eyes: we enquire about it with the mind, and com- 
prehend it (if we can) with the mind. We may say then that the 
mind acquires knowledge of corporeal things by the bodily 
senses, and of things incorporeal by itself. Being itself incor- 
poreal, it must know itself by itself: if it does not know itself, it 
cannot love itself. 

4 (iv). Now just as we found a duality, of mind and its love, 
in the fact of self-love; so there is a duality of mind and its know- 
ledge in the fact of self-knowledge. Accordingly, the mind, its 
love, and its knowledge, constitute a triad. These three are 
one, and if perfect they are equal. If the mind’s love of itself 
does not reach the measure of its being — ^if (say) the human 
mind, which is greater than the body, loves itself only with the 
love due to the human body, then there is sin: the love is not 
perfect. Again, if the measure of its self-love exceeds that of its 
being — ^if it should love itself with the love due to God, to whom 
it is incomparably inferior — then also there is great sin, and no 
perfect self-love. The sin is yet more perverse and iniquitous, 
when the body is loved with love due to God. Similarly a know- 
ledge which falls short of its object, where full knowledge is 
possible, is not perfect. A knowledge which is greater than its 
object implies a superiority in the nature of the knower to that 
of the known: the knowledge of a body is greater than the body 
which is the object of the knowledge. For knowledge is a mode 
of hfe in the knowing mind, whereas the body is not life; and 
any life is greater, not in extent but in power, than any body. 
But when the mind knows itself, the knowledge does not exceed 
the self, for the self is both subject and object of the knowledge. 
If it knows the whole of itself, without any alien importation, 12 

11 The theory of vision propounded in Plato’s Timaeus^ according to which 
‘‘rays” proceed from the eyes and “mingle” with light in the atmosphere, 
was rejected by Aristotle. 

12 The error resulting from “alien importation” is discussed in Book X, 
7 (v) ff. 



THE TRINITY 


6l 

the knowing is correspondent to the mind; for it is no less 
apparent that in this self-knowledge the knowing is not de- 
pendent on any other source. And when this knowledge takes 
in the whole self and nothing more, it is neither lesser nor 
greater than the self. Thus it is true to say that when each 
member of our triad is perfect, it follows that all three are equal. 

5. At the same time we find ourselves encouraged to con- 
ceive how this triad really exists in the soul, inseparable though 
distinct to consciousness as so many substantive or essential 
realities; not as properties of a subject, like colour or shape in a 
body, or any other quality or quantity. For nothing of that kind 
can pass outside the subject to which it belongs: the colour or 
shape of a particular body cannot belong also to another. But 
the love whereby the mind loves itself can be directed to an 
object outside itself; the mind knows not only itself but much 
else as well. Therefore love and knowledge do not belong to 
the mind as attributes to a subject: their existence is as sub- 
stantive as that of the mind itself. They can be regarded as 
mutually related terms, but each exists in a substance of its 
own. As related terms they are not comparable to colour and the 
coloured subject, where the colour possesses no substance proper 
to itself: the substance is the coloured body, the colour is in the 
substance. The relation is to be compared rather to that of two 
friends who are also men, that is, substances. ‘'Men” is not a 
relative term, "friends” is. 

6. "Lover,” "knower,” "knowledge,” "love” are all sub- 
stances; but while "lover” and "love,” "knower” and "know- 
ledge” are at the same time, like "friends,” related terms, 
"mind” and "spirit” are relative no more than are "men.” Yet 
it is not the case with "lover” and "love,” "knower” and 
"knowledge,” as it is with men who are friends, that they can 
exist apart from one another. It may appear that friends, qud 
friends, can be separated in body only and not in soul. But it is 
possible for a friend to begin to hate his friend and thereby 
cease to be his friend, though the other may not know it and 
continue to love him. On the other hand, if the love with which 
the mind loves itself ceases to exist, the mind will also cease to 
be lover; and so with the knowledge whereby the mind knows 
itself. A head is a head, and it and that which is "headed” are 
related terms, though also substances, both being bodies; and if 
there be no head, the thing will not be "headed.” But in this 
case severance can separate the two from one another, which is 
not so with "love” and "lover,” or "knowledge” and "knower.” 



AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


62 

7. If any bodies exist which cannot be cut or divided at all, they 
must still bp composed of their own parts or they would not be 
bodies. Part and whole are related terms, since every part be- 
longs to some whole, and the whole is whole by a totality of 
parts. But since both part and whole are bodies, they exist not 
only as related but as substances. May we say then that the 
mind is a whole, and that the love with which it loves itself and 
the knowledge with which it knows itself are like two parts 
composing the whole? Or, alternatively, that they and the mind 
itself are those equal parts making up the one whole? The diffi- 
culty here is that no part embraces the whole to which it be- 
longs; whereas the mind’s knowledge when it knows itself as a 
whole, that is perfectly, extends over the whole of it; and when 
it loves itself perfectly it loves itself as a whole, and its love ex- 
tends over the whole of it. Take another possible comparison. 
A single drink may be composed of wine, water, and honey: 
each component will extend throughout the whole, and yet 
they remain three: there is no part of the drink which does not 
contain all three — ^not side by side as would be oil and water, 
but completely mixed: all are substances, and the whole fluid 
is one definite substance made out of the three. Can we suppose 
that mind, love and knowledge exist together in the same kind 
of way? Apparently not. Water, wine and honey are not them- 
selves of one substance, though one single substance of drink 
results from that mixture. But it seems certain that our “mental” 
triad must be of one and the same substance; since the mind 
loves itself and knows itself, and its “threeness” does not involve 
its being loved or known by anything else. The three must 
then necessarily have one and the same essence; and if they 
were intermingled they would not be three, nor capable of 
mutual relation. Three similar rings, for example, might be 
made out of one piece of gold: they might be linked together, 
but would still be mutually related, as being alike, and all like- 
ness being a relation. We should have a trinity of rings and all 
one gold. But if they were melted down and mixed -with one 
another in a single lump, there would be an end to the trinity. 
We could still speak as with the three rings, of “one gold,” but 
no longer of three golden objects. 

8 (v). In our triad, on the other hand, in which the mind 
knows and loves itself, we have a permanent trinity of mind, 
love, and knowledge. There is no loss of identity in mixture; 
though severally each is in itself and mutually each as a whole 
is in the others as wholes, whether each singly in the other pair 



THE TRINITY 


63 

)r the pairs in each singly. In other words, all are in ail. The 
nind is in itself, being a substantive term; though it is termed 
mowing, known, or knowable in relation to its knowledge, and 
oving, loved, or lovable in relation to the love with which it 
oves itself. Knowledge is indeed related to the mind knowing 
)r known, but still it is properly termed known and knowing in 
tself, for the knowledge by which the mind knows itself is not 
inknown to the knowledge itself. Similarly love, though related 
o the loving mind to which it belongs, still remains of itself and 
n itself; for love is loved, and that can only be by the love which 
s itself. This shows that each of the three singly is in itself. 
Vgain, they are alternately in one another: the loving mind is in 
he love, love is in the lover’s knowledge, knowledge in the 
mowing mind. They are severally in the remaining pairs: the 
nind which knows and loves itself is in its love and knowledge; 
he love of the loving and self-knowing mind is in the mind and 
ts knowledge; the knowledge of the self-knowing and loving 
nind is in tlie mind and its love, because it loves its knowledge 
Lnd knows its love. The three pairs are in each single member; 
or the mind which knows and loves itself is in the love together 
vith its knowledge, and in the knowledge together with the 
ove; and the love and the knowledge are together in the mind 
vhich loves and knows itself. And the manner in which wholes 
tre in wholes we have already indicated: the mind loving and 
mowing the whole of itself, knowing the whole of its love, and 
oving the whole of its knowledge, whenever the three members 
ire each in themselves perfect. In a wonderful way, the three 
ire inseparable from one another, and yet each one of them is 
L substance, and all together are one substance or essence, 
hough mutually related to one another. 

9 (vi). But the object of the human mind’s self-knowledge 
md self-love is not something changeless. Any individual man 
nay upon introspection ‘‘speak his own mind” in one way, by 
observing what takes place in himself, but give a definition of 
he human mind according to genus or species in a different 
vray. Thus, when he speaks of his own mind and tells me 
whether he understands something or not, whether he wishes 
omething or not, I believe him. But when he gives a true de- 
inition of the human mind by species or genus, I recognize and 
onfirm the truth. This shows that what the individual sees in 
dmself, which his neighbour may believe, without seeing, upon 
ds word, is not the same as what he sees in very truth, which his 
leighbour may contemplate also. The one changes in process 



64 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

of time, while the other stands fast in a changeless eternity. It is 
not that we see many minds with the bodily eye, and so by 
comparison put together a knowledge of the human mind 
according to genus and species. No, we contemplate that im- 
perishable truth, from which we derive our more or less ade- 
quate definition, not of that which the mind of any individual 
man w, but of that which in the everlasting order it ought to be. 

10. Even with regard to the images of material things, ac- 
quired through the senses and imprinted in the memory, mak- 
ing it possible for the mind to form imaginary pictures of things 
not seen, which will either differ from the actual originals or 
display a chance correspondence with them — ^we must admit 
that our judgments of approval or disapproval of these images, 
if rightly made, are based upon quite other standards, which in 
their changeless existence transcend our own minds. Whether I 
recall the walls of Carthage which I have seen, or picture those 
of Alexandria which I have not, I distinguish between the dif- 
ferent images which present themselves, and my preference of 
one to another is a rational preference: there is a higher judg- 
ment of truth, strong and clear, based in its own right on its 
inviolate standards. It may be partly covered by the cloud 
of material images, but it remains itself uninvolved and 
unconfounded. 

11. But much will depend on whether I am shut off from the 
transparent heaven, beneath or within this fog of obscurity, or 
whether I stand as on a mountain top in the open air between, 
looking up to the unclouded light above me and down upon 
the thick mists below. Whence comes it that the warmth of 
brotherly love is kindled in me, when I hear of some man who 
has endured the sharpest torments in steady and undisfigured 
faith? Point out to me the man himself, and I am eager to meet 
him and know him, to be bound in friendship with him. If 
opportunity offers, I approach and greet him, I talk with him, 
I put my feeling for him into such words as I can, I want him in 
return to have and to express such a feeling towards me; and I 
strive for an embrace of spirit in faith and trust, since I cannot 
all at once find my way to a thorough discernment of his inmost 
heart. And so I love him as a brave and faithful man, with a 
love pure and true. But suppose that as we talk he admits, or 
shows by some unconsidered remark, that even his faith is not 
what it should be, that he seeks in God for some material bene- 
fit and has borne his sufferings in that false hope — ^whether in 
the desire of monetary reward or m the vain lust for human 



THE TRINITY 


65 

praise. At once the love which carried me towards him falls 
back rebuffed: it removes itself from the man’s unworthiness, 
and remains in the unchanging pattern which had made me 
love him when I believed him worthy. If I do still love him, it is 
that he may become such as I have found him not to be. In him 
nothing has changed; though change is possible, and he may 
yet become what I had believed him. In my mind there has 
been a change in my estimate of him, which is no longer what 
it was; and my love has been diverted at the bidding of supreme 
and changeless right, from a purpose of enjoyment to a purpose 
of amendment. But the pattern of truth, unshaken and stead- 
fast, by which in the belief of his goodness I might have enjoyed 
his friendship, and by which I now seek his amendment — this 
pattern still sheds the constant and eternal light of pure and 
incorruptible reason, upon my mind’s gaze, and upon that 
cloud of imaginings to which I look down from the mountain 
when I reflect upon the man I saw. 

In the same way, I may recall to my mind some finely pro- 
portioned arch which I have seen, say, at Carthage. Then, an 
object conveyed to the mind by ocular report and imparted to 
the memory, is the cause of my imaged vision. But my mind’s 
eye sees something else, which is the ground of my approval 
for the work of art, and which would enable me if I disapproved 
to correct it. We pass judgment on this in accordance with that 
other, and that other pattern is object of the rational mind’s 
contemplation. We may be in contact with things present 
through the senses, we may retain images of things absent in the 
memory; we may use such images to form pictures which we 
could realize in actual construction if we had the will or the 
ability. But it is in one way that we frame our mental images of 
bodies, or perceive bodies with the bodily sense: it is in another 
that we apprehend with the grasp of intuition the principles of 
art embodied in such forms, and transcending the mind’s 
vision. 

12 (vii). Thus, in that realm of eternal truth from which all 
things temporal were made, we behold with our mind’s eye the 
pattern upon which our being is ordered, and which rules all 
to which we give effect with truth and reason, in ourselves or 
in the outer world. Thence we conceive a truthful knowledge of 
things, which we have within us as a kind of word^ begotten by 
an inward speech, and remaining with us after its birth. When 
we speak to others, we apply the service of our voice or of some 
material sign to this indwelling “word,” in order that by means 



66 


AUGUSTINE*. LATER WORKS 


of a perceptible prompting there may take place in the hearer’s 
mind something like what remains in the mind of the speaker. 
There is nothing that we effect through the body by act or 
speech involving judgments of ethical value, that is not preceded 
by the utterance of such an inner word. No-one does anything 
deliberately that he has not previously spoken in his heart. 
13. And this word owes its conception to love, whether it be 
the love of the creature or of the Creator — of that which is by 
nature changeable, or of the changeless Truth. The word is con- 
ceived, that is, either by covetousness or by charity. I do not 
mean that the creature should not be loved; but a love of the 
creature, if it be referred to the Creator, becomes charity and 
not covetousness. It is covetousness when the creature is loved 
for its own sake; and then it serves not to aid our use but to 
corrupt our enjoyment. The creature is either equal or inferior 
to ourselves: the inferior is to be used in relation to God: the 
equal is to be enjoyed, but only in God. As you ought to enjoy 
yourself, not in yourself but in him who made you, so you should 
enjoy him whom you love as yourself. Thus we are to enjoy 
ourselves and our brothers in the Lord, not daring to let our- 
selves sink downwards into our own keeping. ^ 3 

The word is born when we approve the product of our 
thought, either for sinning or for doing right. And this word of 
ours, and the mind of which it is begotten, are united by the 
middle term of love, which binds itself to them as a third 
member in a spiritual embrace without any confusion. 
14 (ix). Conception and birth of the word coincide, when 
the will comes to rest in the knowledge itself — as happens in 
the love of things spiritual. The man, for example, whose know- 
ledge and love of righteousness are perfect, is thereby righteous, 
even though there be no occasion for an outward and bodily 
act displaying it. In the love of things carnal and temporal, on 
the other hand, the conception of the word and its bringing 
forth, like the conception and bringing forth of animals, are two 

13 This paragraph summarizes the central principle of Augustinian ethics, 
VIZ., the distinction between “use** and “enjoyment,” which is worked 
out in the first Book of the De Doctnna Christiana. The final end of man’s 
existence is the “enjoyment” of God, which consists in union with him 
through knowledge and love. Nevertheless, our love of one another is 
not merely a means to the love of God: the love of neighbour is a love 
of “enjoyment,” not of “use,” for in the love of God the love of neigh- 
bour is necessarily included or contained The “peace of the Heavenly 
City” IS a “fellowship of perfect order and harmony m the enjoyment of 
God and of one another in God” {De Civ , XIX, 13 ). 



THE TRINITY 


67 

different things. Here, what is conceived by desire is born by 
acquisition. Avarice is not satisfied by the knowledge and love 
of gold without its possession: sensuality or ambition require not 
only the knowledge and love of eating and drinking and sexual 
intercourse, of dignities and powers, but their exercise. Yet all 
such things will fail to satisfy even when possessed. ‘^He that 
drinketh of this water, shall thirst again”; or as the Psalm 
has it: ‘^He hath conceived sorrow, and brought forth in- 
iquity” 1^: that is, sorrow or toil is conceived in the conception 
of that which it is not enough to know and love, so that the 
soul is sick and fevered with need until it attains them, “brings 
them forth.” Our Latin words for “gains” {parta) or “finds” 
{reperta^ comperta) appropriately suggest derivation from “bring- 
ing forth” {partus)* “Covetousness when it hath conceived 
bringeth forth sin.” So the Lord cries aloud: “Gome unto 
me, all that travail and are burdened,” and again: “Woe unto 
them that are with child, or give suck in those days.” Every 
good deed or sin is related to this bringing forth of the word in 
the saying: “From thy mouth thou shalt be justified, and from 
thy mou& thou shalt be condemned” where “mouth” sig- 
nifies, not the one we see, but the invisible inward “mouth” of 
thought and heart. 

15 (x). The question properly arises, whether all knowledge 
is “word,” or only the knowledge which is loved. We know 
also what we hate; but we should not speak of the mind’s con- 
ceiving or bringing forth that in which we take no pleasure. 
Not all that affects us in any way is “conceived”: some things 
which are known only, are not to be called “words” — and with 
these we are now concerned. We must distinguish three senses 
of “word.” First, the word temporally extended in syllables, 
whether spoken aloud or only thought. Second, anything known 
and fixed in the mind, so long as memory retains it for produc- 
tion and definition, though the thing itself be displeasing. Third, 
that in the mental conception of which we take pleasure. In 
this last sense of “word” we understand the apostle’s saying: 
“No man saith Jtsus is Lord, but in the Holy Spirit” 1®; whereas 
we learn that others may say the same thing, but in another 
sense, from the Lord’s own words: “Not every one that saith unto 
me. Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven.” 20 
Yet we should note that when it is right for us to take no pleasure 
in anything that we hate and to disapprove it, our disapproval 

14 John 4*13. 15 Ps. 7:14. 15 James 1.15. i 7 Matt. ii’isS, 24*19. 

18 Matt. 12:37. 1^ I Cor. 12:3. 20 Matt. 7:21, 



68 


AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


itself is approved, pleases, and is a “word.” It is not the know- 
ledge of faults that displeases us but the faults themselves. It 
pleases me that I know and can define the meaning of intem- 
perance; and that constitutes its “word.” So in any art or skill 
there are known faults of which the knowledge is rightly 
approved: the connoisseur discerns the appearance and the 
lack of a particular excellence, and can affirm or deny its pre- 
sence; but the lack of the excellence and the liability to the 
fault are properly condemned. To define intemperance, to utter 
its “word,” belongs to the art of morals: to be intemperate, 
belongs to that which the same art censures. Again, it belongs 
to the art of speech to know and define a solecism; but to com- 
mit one is a fault to which the same art attaches blame. 

The purpose of this discussion has been to suggest that what 
makes a “word” is knowledge together with love. Thus when 
the mind knows and loves itself, its “word” is united to it by 
love. And since it loves the knowledge and knows the love, the 
word is in the love and the love in the word, and both are in the 
mind that loves and speaks. i6 (xi). Now all knowledge that 
deals with a positive object is like the thing it knows. There is 
another knowledge dealing with negations or defects which we 
express in the form of disapproval. The disapproval of the 
defect is commendation of the positive object, and therefore is 
itself approved. The mind therefore will possess a certain like- 
ness to the object known, whether this object pleases or its 
absence displeases. And accordingly so far as we know God, we 
are like him — though not of course to the degree of equality, 
since our knowledge of him is not equal to his knowledge of 
himself. When sense perception makes us acquainted with 
bodies, a likeness of them appears in our mind, which is the 
memory-image: it is not the bodies themselves which are in our 
mind when we think of them, but their likenesses. If we accept 
one for the other, we are mistaken: to take one thing for another 
is precisely to “mistake”; and yet the imaging of a body in the 
mind is of higher value than the bodily object itself, in so far 
as the former exists in a higher being, namely, a vital substance 
such as the mind. So it is with our knowledge of God. We are 
indeed raised to a higher goodness than we had before we knew 
him; when that knowledge is delighted in and loved as it de- 
serves, it becomes a “word,” and effects in us a certain likeness 
to God. Yet it is an inferior likeness, as existing in an inferior 
being: the soul is creature, God creator. We conclude that 
when the mind knows and approves itself, the knowledge as the 



THE TRINITY 


69 

mind’s “word” is entirely and constantly correspondent and 
adequate to the mind; being knowledge neither of a lower 
essence like the body, nor of a higher, lihe God. And while all 
knowledge has a likeness to its object, that is to the thing known, 
the likeness in this knowledge, by which the knowing mind is 
known to itself, is perfect and adequate. Accordingly it is both 
image and word, being moulded upon the mind to which in the 
act of knowing it is equated; and Ae thing begotten is equal to 
the begetter. 

17 (xii). We turn now to love, and ask whether it too is not 
image, word, or offspring. If the mind begets its knowledge in 
knowing itself, why should it not beget its love in loving itself? 
If, because it is knowable, it is the cause of its own knowing, it 
should be the cause of its own love because it is lovable. It be- 
comes hard to say why it should not be the begetter of both. In 
our thought of the supreme Trinity, God the omnipotent 
Creator, in whose image man was made, this is a question apt 
to perplex men who are called to faith in God’s truth by way of 
human modes of speech. Why may we not believe or under- 
stand the Holy Spirit also to be begotten of God the Father and 
to be nameable as his Son? What we are now endeavouring is 
to pursue this problem as best we may in the human mind. 
From the study of this inferior image, where we can look for 
answer to our questioning from the nature we know as our own, 
the mind’s eye may acquire the keenness which it needs if we 
are to lift it from the illumined creature towards the changeless 
Light. It may be that truth itself will convince us that even as no 
Christian doubts the Word of God to be his Son, so the Spirit 
IS charity. Let us then return to that creaturely image which is 
the rational mind, and address ourselves to it with a closer 
questioning. We find here arising in time a knowledge of certain 
things unknown before, and a love of some things which were 
not loved before; and this may put us in the way of a clearer 
account, since for a discourse which must move in time from 
point to point, a subject which belongs itself to the temporal 
order is the easier to expound. 

18. And first it should be plain that a thing can well be 
knowable, a possible object of knowledge, and yet be unknown; 
while it is impossible for that which was not already knowable 
to be known. Clearly then we must hold that everything we 
come to know begets in us the knowledge of itself. The know- 
ledge is offspring of both the knower and the thing known; so 
that in knowing itself, the mind is sole parent of its knowledge. 



70 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

being itself both known and knower. Before it knew itself, it was 
knowable to itself; but the knowledge of self was not at that 
time contained in it. In coming to know itself, it begets a self- 
knowledge which is equal or adequate to itself; for the extent of 
Its knowledge is not less than its being, and the knowledge is not 
other in essence, the mind itself constituting (as we have said) 
both subject and object of the knowledge. We come back, 
then, to our question about love. Why should not the mind, in 
loving itself, be said similarly to have begotten its self-love? 
Before loving itself, it was lovable to itself, having the capacity 
of self-love; just as before knowing itself it was knowable to 
itself, having the capacity of self-knowledge. Otherwise it could 
never have acquired either self-knowledge or self-love. Why 
then may we not say that by the act of self-love it has begotten 
its love, exactly as by the act of self-knowledge it has begotten 
its knowledge? 

The answer may be that the source of the love must plainly be 
that from which it proceeds; and that is the mind itself, which is 
self-lovable before it is self-loving, and thus is source of the love 
by which it loves itself; but that there is good reason for not 
calling this love “begotten” of the mind, like the knowledge by 
which it knows itself, because knowledge is a thing discovered, 
and the discovery is often preceded by a search which aims at 
resting in its object. Search is a striving for discovery, which is 
the same thing as finding; and things found are as it were 
“brought forth” — we remember the connection between the 
Latin words /arto and repertus — and so comparable with an off- 
spring. The bringing forth can only be in the knowledge itself, 
where they are (as we may say) shaped and formed. The actual 
things we seek and find, already existed; but the knowledge did 
not, and the knowledge is the “offspring” which we count as 
being “born.” On the other hand, the striving which appears 
in the search proceeds from the seeker, remaining in a kind of 
suspense, and only coming to rest in the desired end, when the 
object sought is found and coupled to the seeker. This striving or 
search may seem a different thing from the love by which the 
thing known is loved, inasmuch as the knowledge sought is 
yet to be realized. None the less, it is something of the same 
kind. It can really be described as “will”: for everyone who 
seeks is willing to find; and if what is sought is matter of know- 
ledge, then every one who seeks is willing to know. If the will is 
eager and earnest, we call it diligence — especially as applied to 
the pursuit and acquisition of the various branches of learning. 



THE TRINITY 


71 

Accordingly we may say that the mind’s ‘‘bringing forth” is 
preceded by a kind of striving, by which, in the seeking and 
finding of what we desire to know, knowledge is bom as off- 
spring. It follows that this striving, whereby knowledge is con- 
ceived and brought forth, cannot properly be called “brought 
forth” or “offspring.” This same striving, or eager pursuit of the 
thing yet to be known, becomes love of the thing known, when 
it holds in its embrace the offspring, the knowledge, in which it 
delights, and joins it to the begetter. 

Here then, is a kind of image of the Trinity: the mind itself, 
its knowledge which is at once its offspring and self-derived 
“word,” and thirdly love. These three are one, and one single 
substance. The mind is no greater than its offspring, when its 
self-knowledge is equal to its being; nor than its love, when its 
self-love is equal to its knowledge and to its being. 



Book X 

The Realization of Self-knowledge: Memory^ Understandings Will 
ARGUMENT 

[The notion of love as a ‘‘search” raises the question whether it 
is possible to love what is not known. In all pursuit of knowledge 
there is love (§ i). The student, e.g., of languages, already knows 
the value of linguistic knowledge in general: his love is directed 
to an ideal present to his mind. He seeks to know the unknown 
for the sake of something that he knows already (§§ 2-4). 

But though we can in this way understand the search for 
knowledge of other things, such explanation is not applicable to 
the mind’s search for knowledge of itself. In desiring and seeking 
self-knowledge, the mind cannot be entirely ignorant of 
itself (§ 5). Yet there are serious objections to any idea that the 
mind can either know or be known “in part” (§6). 

It is best to take the maxim “Know thyself” as an injunction 
to reflect upon our own nature, and to accept in practice our 
real status — under God, over the material world. We are un- 
consciously assimilated to what we love; and love of the material 
causes the mind to conceive itself as material (§§ 7, 8). Hence the 
various materialist theories of the mind’s nature (§§9, 10). We can 
“know ourselves” only by freeing ourselves from all such theories, 
which have no immediate self-evidence (§§11,12), and confin- 
ing our beliefs to the immediate deliveries of consciousness — the 
indubitable facts of our mental and volitional life (§§ 13-16). 

Among these, we find in memory, understanding, and will, 
a triad of certainties with regard to the nature of the mind (§ 17). 
They present a single substantial reality, in differing relations to 
itself; and they correspond co-equally and completely to one 
another (§ 18). In the following Book, we shall try to illustrate 
their relations by a study of the temporal processes of sense- 
perception (§ 19).] 


72 



THE TRINITY 


73 


THE TEXT 

I (i). We must now attempt a keener analysis in order to 
achieve a clear and connected view of the matter we have been 
discussing. In the first place, we note that it is quite impossible 
to love anything which is entirely unknown. This requires us to 
observe carefully the nature of the love involved in any diligent 
study: I mean the love of one who does not yet know, but 
desires to know, a particular subject. In matters to which we do 
not customarily apply the word study, a love will arise from 
what is heard: the report of a thing of beauty will arouse in the 
mind the desire to see and enjoy. We have a general knowledge 
of physical beauty drawn from a number of instances previously 
seen; and so we have in our mind a standard of valuation for 
the external object of our interest. In this case, the love aroused 
is not for something completely unknown, since we have a know- 
ledge of the kind of thing. Again, our love of a good man whose 
face we have not seen is based on a knowledge of the virtues 
which truth itself has given us. In the pursuit of knowledge of 
the various branches of learning, it is generally the authority of 
some eulogizer or professor that sets us going: yet if we had not 
already in our mind a summary impression of the lesiming con- 
cerned, we could feel no ardour for its acquisition. No-one, for 
example, would devote care and trouble to the study of rhetoric, 
if he did not know that it was the science of speaking. Sometimes 
we may be struck with admiration of the achievements of a 
science, reported or experienced, and so be set on acquiring by 
study die ability to perform them. A man ignorant of letters 
might be told that there is a science by which anyone may be 
enabled to send words wrought by hand in silence to a recipient 
at any distance, which the latter will apprehend not through 
the ear but through the eye; and he may see the thing done. 
Naturally, in his desire to know how to do it, his zeal will be 
directed to the purpose which he already knows. It is in this 
way that the learner is stimulated to diligent study. For no-one 
can possibly love that of which he is wholly ignorant. 

2. If you hear an unknown signal, such as the sound of a 
word of whose significance you are ignorant, you may want to 
know what it means, what is the object which the sound is used 
to indicate. You hear, say, the word temtum\ and because you 
do not understand it, you enquire what it means. You must 
already be aware that it is a signal, that it is not a purposeless 



AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


74 

noise but has a certain significance. Otherwise, knowing already 
the three syllables uttered, and having an impression of them 
formed in your mind by the sense of hearing, what further know- 
ledge about It could you require, knowing as you do all its 
letters and sound-quantities? You are not satisfied, because you 
are simultaneously aware that it is a signal, and that arouses 
your desire to know what it signifies. The fuller the knowledge 
which yet falls short of completeness, the greater the mind’s 
desire for what remains to be known. If you were aware only 
of the existence of the sound, but not of its being a signal of 
some object, you would look for nothing more, sense perception 
having already conveyed to you all that was perceptible. But 
since you have learnt that it is not only a sound but a signal, 
you want a complete knowledge of the signal; and no signal is 
completely known without a knowledge of what it signifies. An 
ardent seeker for such knowledge, who eagerly pursues his 
study, can hardly be said to have no love. 

What then does he love? It is certain that a thing cannot be 
loved it if is not known. In the case supposed, what he loves is 
not the three syllables of which he already has knowledge. He 
may love the known fact that they have a meaning; but that is 
not our present concern, for that is not what he seeks to know: 
we are asking what it is that he loves in the object of his study, 
which obviously he does not yet know; and the reason for this 
love is a puzzle to us because we are assured that only things 
known can be loved. The only possible explanation is that in the 
universe of reason he knows and contemplates the beauty of 
that learning which embraces the knowledge of all signs or 
signals, and the usefulness of the technique which gives human 
society the power of inter-commumcation: for the meetings of 
men would be no better than absolute solitude if they could not 
exchange their thoughts in converse. The beauty and the use- 
fulness of this ideal is what the soul perceives, knows, and 
loves; and to enquire about what is unknown in significant 
sounds is to seek by study for the fuller realization of that ideal 
in oneself. To behold it in the light of truth is not the same as to 
covet its possession. One may behold in the light of truth the 
greatness and goodness of a universal comprehension and 
speaking of the languages of all nations, so that none would be 
as the language of a foreigner to any man. The worth of such 
knowledge may be perceived in thought, and loved as a thing 
known. The view of it may so inspire the studies of learners that 
it becomes the centre of their activity, and towards it is aimed 



THE TRINITY 


75 

all their labour in pursuit of a possession by which they may 
realize in practice what they have recognized in idea. The pos- 
session that is hopefully approached is object of a love so much 
the more eager and ardent. We study with the more energy 
the sciences which we do not despair of understanding: that 
which a man has no hope of acquiring he will love either feebly 
or not at all, though he may see its beauty. Accordingly, the 
knowledge of all languages being beyond the hopes of most, 
everyone will give more particular study to that of his own 
people; and though one may feel that a complete knowledge 
even of that exceeds one’s capacity, yet no one is so indolent in 
the matter as not, when he hears an unknown word, to want to 
know its meaning, and to enquire into it and learn it if he can. 
The enquiry implies a zeal for learmng, and the enquirer 
appears to be loving a thing unknown to him. But it is not so. 
For what touches his soul is the ideal which he knows and 
meditates, from which shines forth the value of a union of minds 
through the hearing and returning of famihar sounds; and that 
kindles in him the zeal for study, in which he will seek for what 
he does not know, but contemplate and love the known ideal 
to which it appertains. 

Let us return to our example. If you were asked, on your 
enquiring what the word temetum means, how that concerned 
you, you would reply: “Because I might hear someone use the 
word and not understand him, or come across it in reading and 
be ignorant of the writer’s meaning.” No-one would retort that 
you must not understand what you hear or know what you 
read about. Nearly every rational soul can immediately see the 
beauty of this acquirement whereby the thoughts of men are 
made known to one another by the utterance of significant 
sounds. Because you know the value of it, and love it because 
you know it, you enquire with the interest of a student about 
the unknown word. And when you have heard to your satisfac- 
tion that temetum was an ancient name for wine, but in our 
modern usage has become obsolete, you may stiU count it need- 
ful for you to know as a reader of ancient literature. Or if you 
have no use for such reading, you may think it not worth com- 
mitting to memory; since you see that it has no relevance to the 
known ideal of learning which your mind contemplates and 
loves. 

3. We may conclude that the love active in the student mind, 
which wants to know that of which it is ignorant, is not the love 
of something unknown but of something known, for the sake of 



AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


76 

which it desires a knowledge not possessed. A man may indeed 
be moved not by anything already known but by mere curiosity, 
carried away simply by the love of getting to know the un- 
known. He ought to be distinguished from the student and 
called rather ‘‘curious.’" But not even he loves the unknown: 
indeed it would be more appropriate to say that he hates the 
unknown, which in his wish to know everything he would 
reduce to non-existence. If the problem be thrown back upon 
us with the objection that it is no more possible to hate than to 
love what one does not know, we may concede the point; but 
it should be understood that die statement “He loves ^ to know 
the unknown” is not equivalent to the statement “He loves the 
unknown.” It is possible for anyone to love to know the un- 
known, but not to love the unknown. In the former phrase the 
words “to know” are not otiose; for it is not the unknown but 
knowledge itself that is loved by him who loves to know the un- 
known. And unless knowledge itself were known, one could not 
say with confidence either that one knew or that one did not. 
Not only does the statement “I know,” if it is a true statement, 
involve the knowing what knowledge is; but the same is in- 
volved also in the statement “I do not know,” if made con- 
fidently and truly, with knowledge of its truth; for the speaker 
must distinguish the ignorant from the knower, if looking into 
his own mind he says truly, “I do not know.” And if he knows 
that he speaks the truth, how could that be if he does not know 
what knowledge is? 

4 (ii). To sum up: neither the true student nor the curious 
enquirer loves the unknown, even in his most ardent pursuit of 
the knowledge of what he does not know. Either (i) the object 
of his love is already known to him in kind, and he is seeking 
to know it also in some particular case or cases, which he may 
hear commended though as yet unknown to him. His mind will 
form an image of the thing, and that will stir his love; but it can 
only have been formed from what he knew already. If he should 
find the example commended to him unlike the pictured mental 
image already made familiar by reflection, he may have no love 
for it: if he has, the love will arise from his acquaintance with 
it. Before that, what he had loved was something else to which 
the formative work of the mind had accustomed his imagination. 
If, on the other hand, he finds the thing spoken of to be like his 

1 It must be remembered that throughout this examination of the “love 

involved m diligent study” (amor studentium)^ “love” connotes “desire”: 

It is love as yet unsatisfied. (See Introduction, ad fin,) 



THE TRINITY 


77 

picture of it, so that he might truly say that ‘‘he loved it before 
he saw it,” that love will still not have been for the unknown, for 
its object will have been known to him in the image. Or (2) we 
see something and love it under the ideal form of timeless 
reason: and when we find it expressed in terms of temporal 
reality, led by the testimony of another's experience, and so 
love it, we are not (as sufficiently argued above) loving the 
unknown. Or (3) we love something we know, for the sake of 
which we seek for something unknown; and then it is by no 
means love of the unknown that possesses us, but of the other 
known thing, to which we know that the knowledge of what we 
still seek in ignorance is relevant. This was illustrated above by 
the unfamiliar word. Or lastly (4) the love is for knowledge 
itself, which cannot be unknown to anyone desiring it. 

For these reasons, when we wish to know what we are 
ignorant of, and the eager pursuit of our enquiry makes it im- 
possible to deny the presence in it of love, it appears as though 
we were loving the unknown. But I think that a careful ob- 
servation must be convinced by my argument that the matter 
stands otherwise, and that nothing at ail is loved if it be un- 
known. The examples given, however, apply only in regard to 
persons wanting to know things other than themselves. We must 
be prepared for a new aspect of the problem, when we look at 
the mind’s desire for knowledge of itself. 

5 (iii). What then is the object of the mind’s love, when, 
still unknown to itself, it eagerly seeks to know itself? There is 
the fact, of the mind’s seeking to know itself, and devoting itself 
with ardour to the study. In this there must be love; but for 
what? Not, surely, for itself, since as yet it is ignorant of itself, 
and no-one can love what he does not know. Let us examine 
the possibihties. (i) Its form may have been described to it by 
report, in the way in which we are told about persons absent. 
In that case what it loves may be not itself, but an imaginary 
picture of itself which may be quite different from what it really 
is. Or the picture may be like itself, so that in loving the picture 
it is loving itself before knowing, since it contemplates a Kkeness 
of itself. It must then have known other minds from which the 
picture is drawn, and so be known to itself generically. But why 
should It have knowledge of other minds and not of itself, seeing 
that nothing can be more immediately present to it than itself? 
To the bodily eyes, it is true, other eyes are more known than 
themselves; but if the case of the mind is similar, it may as well 
abandon a hopeless quest. Eyes will never see themselves except 



78 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

in mirrors; and we cannot conceive of any similar appliance 
for the contemplation of incorporeal things, by which the mind 
could know itself as in a mirror. (2) A second possibility is that 
it sees in the eternal truth of reason the excellence of self- 
knowledge, loves what it sees, and studies to realize it in itself. 
Though it is not known to itself, it knows how good it would be 
to know itself. Yet it seems strange indeed that the mind which 
does not yet know itself should know already the beauty of self- 
knowledge. (3) Or again, it may see a final good, its own safety 
and happiness, by means of some hidden memory which has 
remained with it in all its journeyings afield; and it may believe 
that it can never attain that end, unless it know itself. So the 
love of the end may cause it to seek for the means: it loves the 
known end and therefore seeks the unknown means. But why 
should the memory of its happiness have been able to remain 
with it, and not the memory of itself? Why should it not know 
the self that wishes to attain the end as well as the end it wishes 
to attain? (4) Lastly, in loving the knowledge of itself, its love 
may be not for the self which is still unknown but simply for the 
knowledge: it may naturally resent that its own place should be 
vacant among the objects of that knowledge which it would 
have to be all-embracing. It knows what knowledge is, and, 
loving what it knows, desires also the knowledge of itself. How 
then can it know its knowledge and not know itself? It knows 
that it knows other things and not itself, that is what enables it 
to know what knowledge is. But how, if it is ignorant of itself, 
can it know itself as having any knowledge? It is not some other 
mind that it knows as knowing, but itself: therefore it knows 
itself. Similarly, in its seeking to know itself, it knows itself as 
seeking: again therefore it must already have a knowledge of 
itself. It follows that the mind cannot be entirely ignorant of 
itself, since the knowledge of itself as ignorant is to that extent 
a knowledge of itself: if it were ignorant of its ignorance, it 
would not seek for self-knowledge. And therefore the fact of the 
seeking proves that it is more known to itself than unknown; 
for in seeking to know itself it knows itself as seeking and as 
ignorant. 

6 (iv). Are we then to say that the mind partly knows and 
partly does not know itself? It would be absurd to maintain that 
the whole mmd does not know what it knows. I am not saying 
that it must know the whole, but that whatever it knows, the 
whole of it knows. Accordingly, in any knowledge about itself, 
which must be possessed by the whole mind, it knows that the 



THE TRINITY 


79 

whole mind is knowing. ^ Further, it knows itself as having some 
object of its knowledge; but any such object must be present to 
the whole mind. Therefore it knows the whole of itself. Again, 
nothing about the mind can be more certainly known to itself 
than the fact of its being alive: it cannot be mind and not be 
alive, though it has intellect over and above hfe, whereas the 
souls of beasts have life without intellect. Now just as the mind 
is the whole mind, so it is the whole of it that hves. But it knows 
that it is alive; therefore it knows the whole of itself. Finally, in 
seeking to know itself, the mind must know that it is a mind: 
otherwise it would not know whether it was really seeking itself, 
and the search might be wrongly directed; since, for all it 
knows, it may not be a mind, and then its search for knowledge 
of the mind would not be a search for itself. Thus, since it knows 
that its search for the nature of mind is a search for itself, it 
must necessarily know that it is itself a mind; and if it knows no 
more of itself than that it is a mind, and wholly a mind, it must 
know the whole of itself. 

But let us suppose that it does not know that it is a mind, but 
in seeking itself knows only that this is what it is doing. If it is 
ignorant of its own nature, it may still mistake the object of its 
search: if such mistake is to be avoided, it must certainly know 
what the object is. And if it knows what it is seeking, and is in 
fact seeking itself, then it knows itself. Why then should the 
search go on? Suppose it knows itself in part, and in part is still 
seeking; then the object of the search is not itself — which means 
itself as a whole — but a part of it. In that case, knowing that 
the whole of itself is not yet found, it must know the extent of the 
whole: it will be seeking what is lacking to its knowledge, in the 
way that we try to recall to our mind what has escaped, but not 
altogether escaped our memory — ^since we can recognize when 
it comes back to us that this is what we were looking for. But 
here there are two difficulties: the notion of the mind’s returning 

2 The MSS. vary between tota se scit (“the whole of it knows itself”), and 
totam se sat (“it knows the whole of itself”) Augustine has just said that 
the idea of a knowledge possessed by only part of the mind is absurd 
what he has to prove is that if the whole mind knows itself, it cannot 
be knowing only a part of itself The first of the two MS. readings 
merely repeats what has already been said, while the second begs the 
question. The translation given assumes that the origmal text was totam 
se sat sare, which gives the required step m the argument If the whole 
mind knows, it cannot be unaware of that fact; but if it knows itself as 
wholly possessing an object of knowledge, that is as much as to say that 
It knows itself as a whole. 



8o 


AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


into the mind seems to imply that the mind can be absent from 
itself; and also we have to say that it is not seeking for the whole 
of itself, having already found a part, and yet that the whole 
mind is seeking. It is present to itself as a whole, and then 
nothing remains to be sought; for what is lacking is the object 
not the subject of the seeking. Thus if the whole mind is seeking 
itself, no part of it can be lacking. Or if what seeks is not the 
whole mind, but the part already found, seeking the part not 
found, then the mind will not be seeking itself, since no part of 
it seeks the same part: the part found does not seek itself, nor 
does the part unfound seek itself, being the object of search to 
the part found. It would follow, since neither the whole mind 
nor any part of it seeks itself, that the mind is not seeking itself 
at all. 

7 (v). What then can be the purport of the injunction, 
Know thyself?^ I suppose it is that the mind should reflect upon 
itself, and live in accordance with its nature: that is to say, 
strive to be ordered according to its nature, under him whom 
it should be set under, and over all that it should stand over — 
under him by whom it ought to be ruled, over all that it ought 
to rule. For perverse desire makes it act often as though it had 
forgotten itself. It sees beauties of the inward realm, belonging 
to that transcendent reality which is God. Its duty is to stand 
fast for the enjoyment of them; but because it would ascribe 
them to itself, and instead of being a derived likeness of God, 
derive from itself the being that is his only, it turns away from 
him, loses its stability and sinks into something constantly 
diminishing, in the fancy that it is constantly increasing. For 
neither can it suffice itself, nor can aught else suffice it if it 
withdraw from him who alone suffices. Through poverty and 
distress it grows over-occupied with its own dealings and the 
restless pleasures gathered from them; and so, bent on the ac- 
quisition of knowledge from external things, the hke of which 
it knows and loves and feels that it may lose unless it put forth 
all its energy to retain them, it loses its security, and reflects 
upon itself the less, the more secure it imagines itself against the 
loss of itself. 

3 The reference is to the famous maxim of Greek wisdom, attributed to 
Thales and inscribed m Apollo’s temple at Delphi. Augustine may be 
thinking of Cicero, Tusc, QuaesU, I, 22. ‘‘When Apollo says, Know thyself, 
he means, Know thy soul.” It was Augustine’s own early ideal to “Know 
God and the soul” {Sohl., I, 7) — ^the ideal which he is now attempting to 
realize. 



THE TRINITY 


8l 


Not to know oneself is a different tiling from not thinking of 
oneself. We do not say that a man proficient in many branches 
of learning is ignorant of grammar when he is not thinking of it, 
because at the moment he is thinking of the art of medicine. 
But though not knowing oneself and not thinking of oneself are 
different, the power of love is such that what the mind has long 
and lovingly thought over will stick to it hke glue, and accom- 
pany it even when it comes back (as it were) to the thought of 
itself. Its love has been devoted to the material things with 
which the bodily senses have involved it in a persistent familiar- 
ity; and because it cannot take with it into the inward realm of 
immaterial being the material objects themselves, it collects 
and carries along images of them, formed in itself and of itself. 
It puts into their malang something of its own substance, pre- 
serving a certain power of free judgment upon the form of such 
images — a power which is the peculiar property of mind or 
rational understanding, whose capacity for passing judgment is 
not lost; whereas those parts of the soul which receive impres- 
sions corresponding to material objects we are conscious of 
sharing with animals. 

8 (vi). Now the mind goes astray through uniting itself to 
these images by a love so intense as to make it suppose its own 
nature to be like theirs. It becomes as it were conformed to them, 
not in reality but by supposition: supposing itself to be, not an 
image, but the actual thing of which it carries the image in 
itself. There remains active in it the power of distinguishing the 
material and external object from the interior image; except 
when these images so take shape as to give the effect of external 
impressions instead of internal, as happens in dream, or mad- 
ness, or ecstatic experiences. 9 (vii). Thus the mind, supposing 
itself to resemble its own images, supposes itself to be a bodily 
thing. It is well aware of its own domination over the body; and 
this has caused men to ask what part of the body has most 
power in the body, and to consider this to be the mind, or even 
the whole soul. Some have found it in the blood, others in the 
brain, others in the heart. Here the ‘‘heart” is not that of which 
the Scripture speaks: “I will give thanks to thee, O Lord, with 
my whole heart” or “Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with 
thy whole heart” where the word is used in an altered sense, 
transferred from body to soul. This theory identifies the soul 
with an actual part of the bodily viscera which can be exposed 

4 Ps. 9: 1. 

5 Matt, 22:37. 



82 


AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


by anatomy. Some have thought that it is composed of minute 
individual corpuscles, which they call atoms, colliding and 
uniting with one another. Others would make its substance to be 
air, or fire; others would not have it to be substantial at all, 
since they could conceive no substance that is not bodily, and 
found no evidence that the soul is a body: they imagined it to 
be no more than the body’s harmony or the resultant of that 
compound of elements out of which the flesh is constructed.^ 
All these theories treat the soul as mortal, since what is either 
body or a composition of body cannot endure everlastingly; 
whereas those thinkers who have found its substance in a life 
that is not corporeal at all — ^life being what animates and 
vivifies every living body — have consistently endeavoured to 
prove its immortality to the best of their ability, arguing that 
life can never be without life. I will not spend time in discussing 
the notion of the so-called “fifth body” which some writers have 
devised as origin of the soul, in union with the familiar four 
elements of our world. Either they mean the same thing by 
“body” as we do, something extended in space of which any 
part is less than the whole; or else they use the word “body” 
for any substance or any changeable substance, recognizing 
that not all substance is spatially extended in three dimen- 
sions — ^in which case we need not quarrel with them over a 
word. 

10. If, in face of this diversity of opinion, one can perceive 
that the nature of the mind is at the same time substantial and 
non-corporeal (that is, that it does not occupy a smaller space 
with a smaller part of itself and a larger space with a larger 
part), one should at the same time observe that the error of 
supposing it to be corporeal does not arise from ignorance of 
the mind’s nature, but from importing into it qualities supposed 
essential to any conceivable existence. It is supposed that what 
has to be conceived apart from all corporeal images must be 
simply non-existent. But the mind has no need to look for itself 
as though it were somewhere else. There is nothing more im- 
mediately present to cognition than what is present to the mind; 
and there is nothing more immediately present to the mind than 

6 These and other Greek theories of the soul’s nature are discussed by 
Aristotle in De Anima, I. The allusion which follows, to the theories of 
believers in the soul’s immortality, recalls the Phaedo of Plato, where the 
idea of the soul as a “harmony” is refuted {Phaed , 85E ff ). The “fifth 
body” seems to refer to Aristotle’s notion of the “ethereal mattei” of 
which he supposed the stars to be composed. 



THE TRINITY 


83 

the mind itself. The veiy word “invention/’ used in the sense of 
“discovery/’ if we think of its derivation, suggests that to 
“invent” is to “come upon” what is sought. That is why things 
that come into the mind of their own accord are not usually 
said to be invented or discovered, though they may be called 
known; because we had not been making for them by a process 
of search, so as to “come upon” them, “invent” them. What is 
sought for with the eyes or any other of the senses, is sought by 
the mind itself, for it is the mind that directs the attention of the 
sense, and discovers (“invents”) when the sense concerned 
“comes upon” what is being sought for. In the same way, what 
the mind must know by itself and not through the medium of 
any bodily sense, it discovers when it “comes upon” its object; 
whether in the higher substance, in God, or in other parts of the 
soul, as when it passes judgment upon the images of material 
things, “coming upon” their inward impressions as mediated 
to the soul by the body. 

II (viii). To ask then how the mind is to seek and find 
itself, in what direction it must seek, and at what point it will 
find, is to ask a paradoxical question. For nothing can be more 
certainly “in the mind” than the mind itself. But the mind is 
also “in” those things upon which it reflects with love; and since 
love has familiarized it with things sensible or corporeal, it has 
no power to be in itself apart from their images. The disfigure- 
ment of error fastens upon it from its inability to separate itself 
from the images of objects perceived by the senses, and see itself 
in isolation. They have stuck to it under the strange adhesive 
power of love; and its impurity, in the struggle to see itself by 
itself, arises from the supposition that it really is that which it 
cannot think itself without. Therefore what is required by the 
injunction to “know itself” is not that it should seek for a self 
that has been as it were removed from itself, but that it should 
remove its own additions to itself. For the mind itself is a more 
inward reality not only than the things of sense which are 
plainly external to it, but also than the images of them which 
exist in a certain part of the soul possessed by animals as well, 
though animals lack the intelligence which is peculiar to mind. 
To this inwardness of the mind it is a kind of outgoing from 
itself, when the passion of love is directed upon those images 
which are a sort of vestige left behind by many acts of attention. 
Such vestiges are imprinted upon the memory by the sensations 
derived from external bodies, so that even in the absence of the 
objects their images remain available for thought. The mind 



84 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

then is required to know itself not by seeking for a self sup- 
posedly absent, but by fixing upon itself the direction of the 
will which was wont to stray elsewhere, and reflecting upon 
itself* Then it will see that it has never been without either the 
love or the knowledge of itself; but that through the love of 
something else alongside itself it has confounded itself with that 
and as it were coalesced with it, and so by embracing the 
diverse as a unity it has come to believe that what are in fact 
diverse are one and the same thing. 

12 (ix). The mind’s task is not to seek for the beholding of 
an absent self, but to be sure that the self which is present is 
clearly discerned: not to know itself as previously unknown, but 
to distinguish itself from what it knows to be another matter. 
Indeed it can take no steps to act on the words ‘‘know thyself,” 
if it is ignorant of the meaning either of “know” or of “thyself.” 
If it knows both, it knows itself. For the saying “Know thyself” 
has a different sense from a saying like “Know the Cherubim 
and Seraphim”: our knowledge of them is belief concerning 
beings not present to us, based on the statement that they are a 
kind of heavenly power. It is different again from saying “Know 
the will of that man” — a thing which can only be perceived or 
understood when conveyed to us by bodily signs, and leads 
then rather to belief than to understanding. And it is different 
from saying “See your face” — ^which can only be done in a 
imrror. Our own face cannot be present to our observation 
because it is not in a position that we can observe. But when 
one says to the mind “Know thyself,” in the moment of its 
understanding the words “thyself,” it knows itself: for the simple 
reason that it is present to itself. If it does not understand what 
it is told, of course it does not do it. What it is being enjoined 
here to do is what it does in the act of understanding the 
injunction. 

13 (x). Thus, when the mind hears the command to know 
itself, it must avoid the addition of any extraneous element to 
what It knows itself as being. It knows at least that this command 
is addressed to itself, that self which exists, and lives, and 
understands. Existence belongs equally to the corpse, life to 
the beast: understanding belongs to neither. The mind knows 
therefore that its existence and life are the existence and life of 
understanding. So it may suppose itself, for example, to be air: 
it may suppose that air is intelligent; but it knows that itself 
has intelligence, whereas it does not know but only supposes 
that it is air. It must set aside what is supposition and look at 



THE TRINITY 


85 

what is knowledge, retaining what was never doubted even by 
those who have supposed mind to be a body of one kind or 
another. Not every mind thinks itself to be air: some have 
thought themselves fire, some brain, others this or that other 
material substance, as noted above. But all alike know that they 
understand, exist, and live — understanding being relative to its 
object, while existence and hfe are absolute conceptioias. It is 
beyond doubt that understanding implies life and life implies 
existence; from which it follows that the possessor of under- 
standing has an existence and a life different from those of the 
lifeless corpse and the non-rational soul, of a peculiar and trans- 
cendent kind. Again, men know that they possess will, and they 
also know that will implies existence and hfe, and is relative to 
an object willed. They know that they have memory, and also 
that memory implies existence and life; memory itself being 
similarly relative to the thing remembered. Of these three func- 
tions, memory and understanding are the two in which our 
manifold experience and knowledge are embraced, while their 
enjoyment or their use depends on the application of will. We 
enjoy things known in which the will rests satisfied for their own 
sake; we use what we relate to something else as object of 
enjoyment. Nothing but wrong use or wrong enjoyment con- 
stitutes the faultiness and blameworthiness of human life. But 
that is not our present subject.^ 14. We are concerned now 
with the nature of the mind; and we have to exclude from our 
consideration everything which enters our acquaintance from 
outside by the bodily senses, and concentrate our attention upon 
the points which all minds know with certainty about them- 
selves. Whether the powers of life, recollection, understanding, 
will, thought, knowledge, judgment, are properties of air, or of 
fire, or of brain, or of blood, or of atoms, or of some * ‘fifth body’’ 
distinct from the familiar four elements; or whether they could 
all be produced by the composition or harmonization of our 
fleshly substance — as to all this men have doubted; and one has 
attempted to affirm one theory, another another. But no-one 
can possibly doubt that he lives and remembers, understands, 
wills, thinks, knows, and judges. For even if he doubts, he 
lives: if he doubts what has made him doubt, he remembers; if 
he doubts, he understands that he is doubting; if he doubts, he 
wishes to be certain; if he doubts, he thinks; if he doubts, he 
knows that he is ignorant; if he doubts, he judges that he ought 
not to be hasty in assenting. A man may doubt everything else, 
7 Gf. above, p. 66 n. 



86 


AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


but he should not doubt any of these facts; for if they were not 
so, he could doubt of nothing. ^ 

15. The theories which treat the mind as material or as the 
compounding or harmonizing of matter, would represent all 
these activities as properties of a material subject: the real sub- 
stance will be air or fire or whatever else of material nature is 
supposed to be the mind, while understanding is contained 
therein as a quality. The subject will be the mind, regarded as 
body: understanding, and the other activities which we have 
described as certainly belonging to us, will be properties of that 
subject. The view of those who deny that the mind itself is body, 
but make it the composition or harmony of a body, is much the 
same: the only difference is that the other theories maintain the 
mind to be the substance and subject of which understanding is 
a property, while this will have the mind itself to be a property 
of that bodily substance of which it is the compounding or 
harmonization. It must then consistently regard the under- 
standing as a property of the same body which is its subject. 

16. All these theories neglect the fact which we have demon- 
strated, that the mind knows itself even while it seeks itself. By 
no means can anything properly be said to be known in the 
absence of knowledge of its substance. Therefore when the 
mind knows itself, it knows its substance: when it is sure of itself, 
it is sure of its substance. That it is sure of itself is what our 
argument has proved. It is not at all sure whether it is air or 
fire or any material thing or condition of matter. Therefore it is 
none of these things; and the whole purport of its being bidden 
to *‘know itself” is to assure it that it is none of those things of 
which it is not sure, and to make it sure that it is and only is what 
alone it is sure of being. It has a particular way of thinking of 
fire, air, or any other material object; and it would be impos- 
sible for It to think of itself in the same way as it thinks of what 
is not itself. For it thinks of aU those things, fire, air, this body 
or that, or some part, composition or harmony of body, by 
means of some representative image. It is not of course alleged 
to be all the things named, but only one or other of them. But 
whichever of them it were, it would think of it in a different way 
from the rest: I mean, not by any imagined picture, as we think 
of absent objects with which the bodily sense has brought us 

8 Augustine had used this argument, which anticipates Descartes, as early 

as the De Lihero Arbitno (II, 3) of 388 and the De Vera Rehgione (73) of 390. 

The famous Stfallor, sum comes from the De Civitate (XI, 26). See also 

De Tnn,, XV, 21 (xu). 



THE TRINITY 


87 

into contact (whether the picture be of the objects themselves or 
of others of the same kind) ; but by a kind of inward presence, 
real and not imaginary — ^for nothing can be more present to it 
than itself — ^in the way that it thinks of its own living and re- 
membering and understanding and willing itself. All this it 
knows within itself, and does not imagine it as though previously 
sensed by some external contact like the experience of material 
objects. If It avoids tacking on to itself anything derived from its 
thoughts of such material things, so as to suppose itself similar 
in kind to them, then the account of itself which remains will be 
the account of what alone it is. 

17 (xi). And now, setting aside for the moment the other 
activities which the mind is sure of its possessing, let us take for 
particular consideration these three: memory, understanding, 
will, 9 On these three points we are accustomed to examine the 
capacities of children, to find what talents they display. The 
more tenacious and ready is a boy’s memory, the more acute his 
understanding, the more eager his will to learn, so much the 
more praiseworthy do we count his disposition. When, however, 
it IS a question of the learning of any individual, we enquire, 
not how much strength and readiness of memory or sharpness 
of understanding he possesses, but what he remembers and what 
he understands. And seeing that a person is judged praiseworthy 
not only according to his learning but also according to his 
goodness, we take note not only of what he remembers and 
understands but of what he wills: not simply of the eagerness of 
his will, but first of what he wills and then of how much he wills 
it. For a person who loves intensely only merits praise when 
what he loves is what ought to be loved intensely. In the three 
fields of disposition, learmng, and practice or use, the test of the 
first depends upon the individual’s capacity in respect of mem- 
ory, understanding and vdll; the test of the second, upon the 
content of his memory and understanding, and the point to 
which an eager will has brought him. But the third, use, belongs 
entirely to the will as it deals with the content of memory and 
understanding, whether as means relative to a particular end, 
or as an end in which it may rest satisfied. To use, is to take a 
thing up into the disposal of the will; whereas to enjoy is to use 

5 The choice of these three from among the various activities enumerated 
in § 14 above is not simply dictated by what Augustme knows he wants 
to make of them. Of the others, “life” is not peculiar to nund, while 
“thought,” “knowledge,” and “judgment” are forms of “understanding” 
or “memory.” For the meaning of the terms, see Introduction, ad fin 



88 


AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


with a satisfaction that is not anticipated but actual. Thus all 
enjoyment is a kind of use, since it takes up something into the 
disposal of the will for final delectation; but not all use is enjoy- 
ment, if what is taken up into the disposal of the will has been 
sought after not for its own sake but as a means to something 
else.^o 

1 8 . Now this triad of memory, understanding, and will, are 
not three lives, but one; nor three minds, but one. It follows 
that they are not three substances, but one substance. Memory, 
regarded as life, mind, or substance, is an absolute term: re- 
garded as memory, it is relative. The same may be said of 
understanding and of will; for both terms can be used relatively. 
But life, mind, essence, are always things existing absolutely in 
themselves. Therefore the three activities named are one, inas- 
much as they constitute one life, one mind, one essence and 
whatever else can be predicated of each singly in itself, is pre- 
dicated of them all together in the singular and not in the plural. 
But they are three inasmuch as they are related to one another; 
and if they were not equal, not only each to each but each to all, 
they could not cover or take in one another as they do. For in 
fact they are covered, not only each by each but all by each. I 
remember 12 that I possess memory and understanding and 
will: I understand that I understand and will and remember: I 
will my own willing and remembering and understanding. And 
I remember at the same time the whole of my memory and 
understanding and will. Whatever I do not remember as part 
of my memory, is not in my memory; and nothing can be more 
fully in my memory than the memory itself. Therefore I remem- 
ber the whole of it. Again, whatever I understand, I know that 

I understand, and I know that I will whatever I will; but what- 
ever I know, I remember. Therefore I remember the whole of 
my understanding and the whole of my will. Similarly, when I 
understand these three, I understand all three in whole. For 
there is nothing open to understanding that I do not understand 
except that of which I am ignorant; and that of which I am 
ignorant I neither remember nor will. It follows that anything 

10 This IS a refinement of the distinction between “use” and “enjoyment” 
into which Augustme is led en passant. It confuses rather than illuminates 
the distinction 

II This phrase, repeated at the end of the section, had been used by Augus- 
tine of the “trinity” of being, knowmg, and willing in Conf,^ XIII, I2 (xi). 

12 Note that Augustine is using “remember” not in the sense of actually 
recollecting, but m that of being able to recall, see Introduction, ad ftn., 
for the meaning of the terms “memory” and “understanding.” 



THE TRINITY 


89 

open to understanding that I do not understand, I neither re- 
member nor will, whereas anything open to understanding that 
I remember and will, I understand. Finally, when I use the 
whole content of my understanding and memory, my will 
covers the whole of my understanding and the whole of my 
memory. Therefore, since all are covered by one another 
singly and as wholes, the whole of each is equal to the whole 
of each, and the whole of each to the whole of all together. 
And these three constitute one thing, one life, one mind, one 
essence. 

19 (xii). We might now attempt to raise our thoughts, with 
such power of concentration as is at our disposal, towards that 
supreme and most exalted essence of which the human mind is 
an image — ^inadequate indeed, but still truly an image. Yet it 
may be better to illustrate more clearly the presence in the soul 
of these same three functions, by means of our bodily sense per- 
ceptions of external objects, in which there is impressed upon 
us in the process of time a knowledge of material things. We 
found the nature of the mind, in its memory, understanding and 
willing of itself, to be such that it must be apprehended as 
always knowing and always willing itself; and therefore also 
as always at the same time remembering itself, understanding 
and loving itself, although it does not always keep the thought 
of itself clearly separated from things which are not identical 
with it. This makes it difficult to distinguish in it the memory 
of self and the understanding of self. When they are closely con- 
joined, neither preceding the other in time, it may look as 
though they were not two, but one and the same thing under 
different names. Even love may cease to be felt as such, if not 
disclosed by the sense of want, as when its object is continually 

13 In fact Augustine has so far nowhere said that the mind always possesses 
the memory, understanding, and wilhng of itself — ^which would imply that 
both understanding and will, like memory, exist in the mind unconsciously 
before they are consciously realized. In Bk XIV, 9 (vi), he refers to w'hat 
he has said here, and proceeds to develop the distinction between ‘‘under- 
standing’’ as a conscious act of “thought” {cogitatio) and the unconscious 
“knowledge” on which it depends It is only in the conscious act of under- 
standing that he can find what he means by the “birth of the word.” 
Accordmgly in Bk. XIV, though he maintains the idea of a permanent 
and unconscious state of the triad (memory, understandmg, will), it is 
in its conscious realization that he has to look for his final demonstration 
of the image of the Trimty (cf Bk. XIV, 10 (vii), 13 (x)). In Bk, XV, 
41 (xxi), however, he notes that in virtue of the inherence of under- 
standing and will in memory, both can exist below the conscious 
level. 



AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


90 

present. All this may become clear to the slower thinker, in the 
course of an examination of those temporal processes which add 
to the content of the mind or otherwise affect it: when it remem- 
bers what it did not remember before, when it sees what it did 
not see before, and when it loves what it did not love before. 
This examination, however, demands to be taken in hand in 
the next Book. 



Book XI 

The Image in the Outward Man 
ARGUMENT 

[We are to look for a likeness of the inward man in the outward; 
and the particular sense we shall examine is that of sight. 

1. We can distinguish (i) the external object of vision (ii) the 
perception of it in the sense-organ (iii) the mental attention 
which fixes the eye on the object. 

{a) Sense and attention belong to the perceiving subject and 
are independent of the object. The form printed on the sense- 
organ is product of the object only, of which this form is a like- 
ness or image, distinct from the object itself. Its existence in the 
sense-organ is proved, e.g., by our experience of the ‘'after- 
image” of a luminous object on closing the eye, and the dupK- 
cated image of an unfocused vision. The three elements are thus 
diverse in substance; but the third (the voluntary act of atten- 
tion) brings the two former into close union, and is capable, 
when its emotional tone is intense, even of producing changes 
in the body of the percipient. (6) When a remembered percep- 
tion is recalled to mind, we can observe a corresponding 
“trinity of imagination,” this time entirely within the mind, 
composed of memory, inward vision, and the will which directs 
attention upon the object in the memory. The resulting mental 
image may even be mistaken for the “real” thing, especially 
under the influence of strong desire or fear. 

2. Both sense-perception and imagination can lead us astray. 
A life “according to the trinity of the outward man” is a bad 
life. This trinity, therefore, as belonging to the external and 
material world, cannot be a true image of God — though it may 
contain a “likeness” of him. — {a) In the trinity of sense, object 
and vision are heterogeneous, and cannot properly be styled 
“parent” and “offspring.” The act of attention is a nearer 

91 



02 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

analogue of the Spirit, being neither ‘^parent” nor ‘‘offspring’*: 
its “end” or realization in the vision can be related as a means 
to the will’s pursuit of the ultimate Good, 

(b) In the trinity of imagination, the thing remembered and 
the inward vision are no more than “quasi-parent” and “quasi- 
offspring”; for the inward vision, though taking form from the 
memory, existed before the impression on it of the particular 
form. The act of will is both homogeneous with the memory and 
in a sense “proceeds” from it: we cannot, e.g., want to recollect 
what we had for dinner yesterday unless we remember that we 
dined. Thought or inward vision can form images which may 
differ from the actual content of memory, though it is always 
dependent on memory, even when evoked by what is described 
by another person. Memory is to some extent controllable by 
the will, which can abstract the attention from what is presented 
to the senses. 

3. In both “trinities” it is to be noted that the will’s function 
is to link together, either (a) external object with sense-image, 
or (b) memory-image with thought-vision — each of these four 
being product or “offspring” of the preceding. Memory is 
limited by experience: imagination is not. We can think of 
black swans or four-footed birds. So we may see in memory, 
thought-vision, and voluntary attention, the “measure, number, 
and weight” of Wisdom 11:20, in which God has “ordered all 
things,”] 



Book XII 


Knowledge and Wisdom 
ARGUMENT 

[Where is the Knk between outward and inward man? 

1. We share sense-perceptionj and perhaps memory, with 
animals. Yet the rationality which distinguishes man from beast 
is in part concerned with direction of our bodily and temporal 
life, in part with our contact with eternal truth: it is partly 
active, partly contemplative. As in the union of male and 
female, there is here a binding together of “two in one flesh.” 
The division in the human mind is one of function only. There 
may be a trinity in either function; but we shall have to seek the 
true image of God in the higher rather than the lower. 

2. We must reject the idea that the Trinity is imaged in the 
triad of man, woman, and child. The “image of God” in 
Gen. 1 127 must be understood as an image of the Trinity and 
not of any one Person; but certainly Adam and Eve were not 
created with a son. Paul’s saying in I Cor. 11:7 that man (as 
opposed to woman) is the image of God, is best interpreted in 
accordance with the distinction above suggested, of the double 
function, higher and lower, of the rational mind. In any case 
when he speaks of the “new man” in Col. 3:9, 10, he does not 
mean to exclude the Christian woman from renewal in God’s 
image. Man and woman alike possess the same human nature 
in its completeness. 

3. The Fall of man is the result of the “lower reason” throw- 
ing off the control of the “higher,” and devoting itself to the 
pursuit of the material and temporal. Man seeks to be his own 
master, to have private possessions instead of his share in the 
universal good; and through preferring the knowledge which 
“puffs up” to the love of wisdom, sinks below the level of the 
rational. In the story of the forbidden fruit, is symbolized the 

93 



94 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

yielding of the higher reason (Adam) to the solicitations of 
the lower (Eve), which has already been perverted by the flesh 
(the serpent), so that sinful desire becomes sinful act. This is a 
better exegesis than to take the woman as symbolizing the 
bodily senses which we share with the beasts. 

4. The lower reason has its proper place in the right use of 
things temporal, as means to eternal life. The distinction of 
knowledge and wisdom is suggested by I Cor. 13:8 and Job. 
28:28. Knowledge (‘'abstaining from evil”) is concerned with 
moral activity and the human history which instructs us therein. 
Wisdom is the contemplation of those eternal forms or prin- 
ciples of which Plato wrote; though his doctrine that the soul 
retains a memory of them from a former existence is unsatis- 
factory. It is better to believe that the mind is enlightened by a 
spiritual sun, as the eye by the physical. 

5. Before we look for our image of the Trinity in that wisdom 
whereby the mind contemplates things eternal, we have to 
consider the likeness which may be traced in our knowledge of 
the temporal.] 



Book XIII 
The Trinity of Faith 
ARGUMENT 

[i. The distinction between higher and lower reason, wisdom 
and knowledge, laid down in Book XII, is illustrated by the 
Prologue of John’s Gospel, where w. 1-5 refer to things eternal, 
w. 6-14 to things temporal, to known history and the faith based 
upon it. We have an immediate vision or knowledge of faith in 
ourselves, while we can only believe its presence in others. 

2. Yet there are some behefs and desires which are so gener- 
ally entertained that we can almost regard them as universal. 
The desire for happiness (beatitude) is certainly universal, 
though the great variety of beliefs as to what constitutes hap- 
piness proves that the knowledge of it is by no means equally so. 
The true definition of happiness is not ‘‘living as you will,” but 
the satisfaction of all wants when nothing is wanted wrongly. 
(For some objects of desire are bad, and cannot make us happy.) 
It is human perversity, when both these conditions of happiness 
are unattainable, to prefer the satisfaction of wants to the con- 
fining of wants to what ought to be wanted. In this Hfe, hap- 
piness is never without alloy: if we truly desire happiness, we 
are desiring immortality; since if life ends, happiness ends, and 
the loss of happiness, even in expectation, cannot be good. 

3. Faith alone can assure us of our capacity for immortality 
— in John’s words, “power to become sons of God”; and this 
faith rests upon the Incarnation, Cross, and Resurrection of 
Christ. No other way could have been more fit to rescue us from 
despair than the assurance of God’s love — the love for sinners 
who can have no merits that are not his gifts. This love, by 
which we are “justified in his blood,” “reconciled by his 
death,” is not the act of one Person of the Trinity, but the 
eternal love of Father, Son, and Holy Ghost. 

95 



AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


96 

4. By God^s just and righteous permission, the sin of the first 
man put the whole race in the power of the devil — though the 
devil himself remains under the power of God. Both devil and 
fallen men pursue power rather than righteousness (justice); 
but righteousness is the condition of power and not vice versa^ 
just as for happiness the good will must precede the power to live 
as we will. Therefore the devil’s power could be overcome only 
by righteousness: the sinless Christ, submitting for righteous- 
ness’ sake to an unjust death at the devil’s hands, deprived him 
of his ‘‘right” to power over men; though the temporal suffer- 
ings and bodily death, which were the penalty of sin, remain for 
the trial of our faith. The death of Christ thus “justifies” us, 
because through faith we share in his righteousness, even as we 
had shared in Adam’s sin. 

5. The historic incarnation and atonement, on which our 
faith is based, thus fall within the sphere of knowledge rather 
than of wisdom. But in the Word made flesh are the “treasures 
of wisdom” as well as of “knowledge”: in Christ we move 
through the latter to the former. 

6. There is a “trinity of faith,” when things believed are held 
in the memory, and recalled to thought by the act of will; and 
if their truth be accepted and loved, there is a life “according 
to the inward trinity.” Yet it is not here that we can trace the 
full image of God.] 



Book XIV 

The Perfection of the Image tn the Contemplation of God 
ARGUMENT 

[Trae wisdom in men is the worship of God (§§ i, 2). Its object 
is the eternal and divine, while knowledge is of the temporal and 
human; and we have treated faith as belonging to the sphere of 
knowledge, so that the image of the Trinity to be discerned in 
faith must needs be a transient thing (§§ 3-5). The true image of 
God in the human mind must be permanent and unchanging, 
even though it be temporarily defaced (§6). 

The existence of self-knowledge m the mind of the infant is 
problematical. In the adult, the mind comes '‘into its own view” 
only in the act of thinking, though always present to itself in the 
memory, which is the source from which its self-understanding 
is "begotten” (§§ 7, 8). In fact, apart from the conscious act of 
thought, there is always a sort of unconscious self-understanding 
and self- willing stored in the memory (§ 9). But since the act of 
thought is required for the production of the "word,” we have a 
better image of the Trinity in the conscious act than in the im- 
conscious memory (§ 10). 

The mind is God’s image par excellence in virtue of its capacity 
for knowing God. Its trinity is self-contained, and so distin- 
guished both from the trinity of sense-perception, and from the 
trinity of faith (§11)5 which will pass away, as will the moral 
virtues appropriate to this life of action (§ 12). In the mind’s 
self-knowledge there is nothing adventitious (§ 13); it is ever 
present to itself, and its "memory” is not related to past 
time (§ 14), 

The perfection of the divine image in the mind is the divine 
gift of wisdom, by which the mind becomes aware of God (§ 15), 
and IS not only "in” God, but "with” God (§ 16), through the 
revival in it of that "memory of God” which was never entirely 

97 



gS AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

obKterated (§17). The mind’s self-love is true, that is, for its 
own good, only when grounded on the love of God (§§ 18, 19) 
— ^for which, as for the knowledge of God, it possesses a natural 
capacity, and which alone can satisfy its needs (§20). 

The restoration of the image to its original perfection is the 
work of grace, enabling the mind to turn again to the light, of 
which even when it was averted therefrom it felt the touch — as 
shown, e,g., by its power of moral judgment (§§21, 22). This 
renewal “after the image of the Creator” is a gradual process, 
whereby the mind’s love is re-directed upon God, and it reaches 
perfection only in the final vision of God (§§ 23, 24), when we 
shall be “like him, for we shall see him face to face.” No true 
lover of wisdom can doubt the immortality of the soul (§ 25).] 

THE TEXT 

I. (i). We are now to consider the nature of wisdom; but not 
the Wisdom of God, which assuredly is God himself, for it is the 
name given to his only-begotten Son.i We are to speak of a 
human wisdom, which is yet a true wisdom as being in accord- 
ance with God, and consisting in his true and peculiar worship. 
This in Greek is denoted by the single word theosebeia^ which our 
Latin translators, wishing to have one word to correspond to it, 
have rendered (as we have already noted) pietas or godly fear. 
The more usual Greek for pietas, however, is eusebeia, Tkeosebeia 
cannot be perfectly rendered in one word, and it is better to use 
two and call it Det cultus, the worship of God. That this is man’s 
wisdom (as laid down in the twelfth Book of the present work), 
is proved by the authority of Holy Scripture, in the Book of Job 
the servant of God. There we read that the wisdom of God has 
said unto man: “Behold, the fear of the Lord [pietas) is wisdom; 
and to abstain from evil is knowledge” 2 — or, as some have 
translated the Greek episteme, “discipline”: which can stand for 
“knowledge,” as being itself derived from discere or learning; 
for our purpose in learning anything is to know it. (“Discipline” 
has indeed another sense, as applied to the troubles suffered by 
a man for his sins with a view to correction. So the Epistle to 
the Hebrews says: “Who is the son to whom his father dealeth 
not discipline?” or again, more obviously; “All discipline for 
the time seemeth not to be joyous but grievous; but afterwards 
it shall yield the peaceable fruit of righteousness to them that 
have striven through it.” 3 ) 

1 1 Cor. 1:24, 2 Job 28:28. 


3 Heb 12 7, u. 



THE TRINITY 


99 

The supreme wisdomj then, is God himself; and the worship 
of God is the human wisdom, of which we are now speaking. 
For "'‘the wisdom of this world is foolishness with God”^; it is 
of the wisdom which is the worship of God, that Holy Scripture 
says: ‘'the multitude of the wise is the welfare of the world.” ^ 

2. But if it takes wise men to discourse of wisdom, we are in a 
difficulty. In order that our discourse of it may not be imper- 
tinent are we to presume so far as to profess wisdom? We should 
rather take warning from the example of Pythagoras, who dared 
not profess himself wise, and said in answer to his questioners 
that he was only a philosopher, that is, a lover of wisdom.^ This 
was the origin of the name, which so approved itself to later 
thinkers that the greatest learning in matter of wisdom, whether 
claimed or acknowledged, would entitle a man to no more than 
the name of philosopher. Was the reluctance of such men to pro- 
fess wisdom due to their supposing that the wise man must be 
altogether without sin? At any rate that is not the teaching of 
our Scriptures, which say: “Rebuke a wise man, and he will 
love thee.” To count a man in need of rebuke is surely to find 
him guilty of sin. But even so I would not dare to profess myself 
wise: it is enough for me that it belongs to the philosopher or 
lover of wisdom to discourse about wisdom. And that no-one 
can deny; for those who have professed themselves lovers of 
wisdom rather than wise have not ceased to discourse upon it. 

3. Wisdom has been defined, in such discourse, as “the know- 
ledge of things human and divine.” ^ I too, in a preceding 
Book,s> have expressed the opinion that acquaintance with both, 
things divine and human, can be called both wisdom and 
knowledge. But if we adopt the apostle’s distinction — “to one 
is given the word of wisdom, to another the word of know- 
ledge”^® — ^it is proper for us to break up this definition, giving 
the name of wisdom in its strict sense to the knowledge of 
divine things, while of human things we speak, in the strict 
sense, of knowledge. This I have cfiscussed in my thirteenth 
Book, where I assigned to this latter knowledge, not anything 
that a man can know of human affairs, a great part of which 
is matter of superfluous vanity or harmful curiosity, but only 
that by which the most wholesome faith that leads to true 
blessedness is begotten, nourished, defended, and strengthened. 

4 I Cor. 3.19. ^ Wisdom 6:24. 

6 The« story js told in Cicero, Tusc, Q^st., V, 3. 

7 Prov. 9:8. ® Cicero, De 0]^, II, 2. 

® The reference is to Bk. XII, 22 (xiv). I Cor. 12:8 



100 


AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


And in this knowledge many of the faithful are weak, though in 
the faith itself they are most strong. For it is one thing simply to 
know what is to be believed for the attainment of the eternal 
life which alone is blessed; it is another, to know how this faith 
gives succour to the godly and has its defence against the un- 
godly — which the apostle seems to describe by the particular 
term “knowledge.” In speaking of it, I have already been con- 
cerned chiefly to commend the faith itself. I first briefly dis- 
tinguished the eternal from the temporal, and proceeded to deal 
with the sphere of the temporal. I postponed to this Book the 
treatment of things eternal, but I showed that even of them 
there is a faith which is temporal indeed, and comes in process 
of time to dwell in the hearts of believers, yet is necessary for 
the attainment of the eternal. I argued the benefit, for this 
attainment, of that faith concerning the things which in time 
the Eternal wrought for us and suffered, in the man whose 
humanity he wore in time^i and exalted to eternity; and I 
maintained that the virtues which give prudence, courage, 
temperance and justice to life in this temporal and mortal state, 
are true virtues only if they be related to this same faith, which, 
temporal as it is, conducts us to the things eternal- 
4 (ii). It is written: “So long as we are in the body, we are 
sojourners away from the Lord; for we walk by faith, not by 
sight.”i2 Accordingly, so long as the just lives by faith,i 3 though 
his life be that of the inward man, he can only strive for the 
truth and make his way towards the eternal by means of the 
faith which is temporal: not yet can there be in the holding and 
contemplation and love of this temporal faith a trinity fit to be 
called the image of God. Else that which must be established in 
the eternal would seem to be established in things temporal. 
When the mind of man sees its own faith, believing what it does 
not see, it is not looldng upon what is everlasting. What it sees 
will not be always so, will assuredly not be so, when at the end 
of the sojourning in which we are absent from the Lord and 
must walk by faith, shall come the turn of sight in which we 
shall see face to face.^^ We see not so now; but because we 
believe, we shall be found worthy to see, and shall rejoice that 

n Fecit et passus est in homine quern temporaliter gessit — a phrase which is remark- 
able as combming the truths for which the Ghristologies of Alexandria 
and Antioch were about to contend. (See Sellers, The Council of Chalcedony 
pp. isia-iSi.) 12 II Cor. 5 6f. 12 Rom, 1:7. 

14 I Cor. 13:12. The contrast which Augustine draws between faith and 
sight governs the whole of the argument which follows. Gf. Introduction, 
P- 29 f. 



THE TRINITY 


lOI 


faith has brought us home to sight. Instead of the faith by which 
the unseen is believed, wiU come the sight by which things 
formerly believed are seen. It may be then that we shall remem- 
ber this mortal life that will be past, and recall our former 
belief of what we did not see; but that faith will be set down 
among things past and gone, not present and ever abiding. It 
will be found, therefore, that the trinity which now appears in 
the remembering, beholding and loving of the faith now present 
and abiding, is then a thing not permanent but past and gone. 
We must conclude that if that trinity is indeed the image of 
God, this image itself must be counted as belonging not to that 
which always is, but to that which passes away, (iii) . But if the 
souPs nature is immortal, so that after its original creation it 
can never cease to be, God forbid that the souPs most precious 
possession should not endure with its own immortality; and 
what can be more precious in its created nature than its making 
in the image of its Creator? Not therefore in the holding, con- 
templation, and love of faith, which may not be for ever, but in 
what shall always be, we must find the image of God worthy of 
that name. 

5. But let us test the truth of this conclusion by a closer and 
more careful enquiry. It may be argued that this trinity does not 
perish even when faith itself has passed away: on the ground 
that just as now we hold the faith in memory, perceive it in 
thought and love it in will, so then, when our former possession 
of it shall be remembered and thought upon, and the memory 
and reflection united by our will, the same trinity will remain 
unchanged. For if it were to pass and leave no kind of trace in 
us, then there would be nothing of it in our memory to which 
we could recur in remembering it as past and linking by the 
effort of attention the two elements — ^what was in the memory 
without our thinking of it, and what is given form by thought. 
This argument fails to notice the difference between two 
trinities: one, when our present faith is held, seen, and loved 
within us; and another which will exist when not faith itself but 
a sort of imaged trace of it laid up in the memory is contem- 
plated in recollection, and the will unites the content of memory 
and the impression of it in the mind’s view. 

To enable this to be understood, let us take an example from 
the material world, which occupied us sufficiently in the 
eleventh Book. In the ascent from lower to higher, or the entry 
from outward to inward, we discovered a first trinity in the 
material object of sight, the view of the beholder to which it 



102 


AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


gives form in the moment of vision, and the exercise of will 
which unites the two. We may postulate a trinity on similar 
lines, when the faith now existing in us, like the material body 
m space, is contained in our memory, and from it form is given 
to the thought which recollects it, just as the bodily object gives 
form to the view of the beholder. These two elements become a 
trinity by the addition of the will, which hnks and joins together 
the faith contained in the memory and the reproduction of it 
imprinted in the recollecting contemplation: just as, in the 
trinity of bodily vision, the form of the body seen and the con- 
forming thereto of the beholder’s view are united by the exer- 
cise of will. Now let us suppose that the material body which 
was the object of vision has dissolved and perished, leaving 
nothing of itself at any point in space to the sight of which the 
eye could be re-directed. The fact that an image of the material 
object, now past and gone, remains in the memory to give form 
to the recollecting view, so that these two elements may be con- 
joined by the will, does not allow us to call the resulting trinity 
the same as that which had existed when the real body was seen 
in space. It is an entirely different one: not only does it belong 
to the internal sphere whereas the other belonged to the ex- 
ternal, but it is produced by the image of a body no longer there 
instead of by the actuality of an existing body. So, in the case 
under consideration, for the sake of which the parallel has been 
drawn, the faith at present in our mind, like the body in space, 
constitutes a kind of trinity in being held, regarded, and loved; 
but the trinity will not be the same when this faith has ceased 
to exist in the mind as the body has ceased to be in space. When 
we come to recollect its existence in us as past and no longer 
present, it will unquestionably be a different trinity. The one 
we have now is produced by the presence of the thing itself and 
its attachment to the believing mind: the one we shall have then 
will be product of the picturing of what is no longer existent, 
left behind in the memory as object of recollection. 

6 (iv). We may say then neither that we shall have the 
image of God in that trinity which does not exist at present, nor 
that we have it now in die trinity which then will exist no 
longer. We must find, in the rational or intellectual soul of man, 
an image of its Creator planted immortally in its immortal 
nature. We can speak of the soul’s immortality only in a quali- 
fied sense; for there is a death of the soul, when it is without that 
bliss which must be accounted its true life. We call it immortal, 
because even in utmost wretchedness it never ceases to live a 



THE TRINITY 


103 

life of a sort. In the same way, though reason and understanding 
may at one time be dormant in it, and at others appear either 
small or great, the human soul is never anything but rational 
and intellectual; and for that reason, if its making in God’s 
image represents its power to use reason and intellect for the 
understanding and the beholding of God, we may be sure that 
from the first beginning to be of so great and marvellous a 
creature, that image always remains, whether it be so faded 
that scarcely anything of it is left, whether it be obscured and 
defaced, or clear and fair.i^ We may appeal here to a text of 
God’s Scripture which expresses his pity for the defacement of 
its dignity: “Although man walketh in an image, yet is he vainly 
disquieted: he heapeth up treasures, and knoweth not for whom 
he shall gather them.”i^ Vanity would not be ascnbed to the 
image of God, were it not seen to be defaced; and that no de- 
facement can destroy its character as image is plain enough 
from the words: “though man walketh in an image.” The sen- 
tence, then, will be equally true if its clauses are inverted, and 
we read: “Although man is vainly disquieted, yet he walketh 
in an image.” Human nature is a great thing, but because it 
is not the highest it was liable to spoiling^^j and although liable 
to spoiling because it is not the highest, yet because it has a 
capacity for the highest and is able to become partaker in it, it 
remains great. 

We must look then, in this image of God, for a trinity of an 
unique kind — trusting in the help of him who made us in his 
image; for there is no other way of sound enquiry into the 
matter, or of discovery according to the wisdom which comes 
from him. But the reader will not need more words here upon 
the method to be followed, if what was said in earlier Books 
(especially the tenth) of the human soul or mind be remem- 
bered and re-considered, or reference be made to the pages 
containing that discussion, 

7. In the tenth Book it was said, among other things, that the 
mind of man knows itself. For nothing can be better known to 

15 It is important to note tliat Augustine finds the indelible image of God in 
man, not in his rational nature as such, but in his “power to use” his 
rationality for attaining knowledge of God. 

16 Ps 39*6. The “although” on which Augustme builds his fanciful exegesis 
may have been suggested by the LXX: it does not appear m the Vulgate. 

17 This follows from the doctrme that the only changeless “nature” is the 
divme. 

isle, the discussion at the end of Bk. X of memory, imderstandmg, and 
will. 1® Bk. X, 10 (vii). 



AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


104 

the mind than what is immediately present to it; and nothing 
can be more immediately present to the mind than itself. The 
point was also established to our satisfaction on other grounds, 
(v). What then are we to say of the mind of the child, as yet so 
small and so profoundly ignorant that its mental darkness is 
almost frightening to the more or less instructed adult^ Perhaps 
even the child^s mind may be thought to know itself, but to be 
so pre-occupied with experiences of the pleasures of sensation, 
all the greater for their novelty, that it cannot reflect upon itself, 
though unable to be ignorant of itself. The intensity of the 
child’s interest in the external objects of sensation may be seen 
in the single example of its avidity for the light. If, from care- 
lessness or Ignorance of the possible effect, one puts a night- 
light by a child’s cot, in a position where the child as it lies can 
turn its eyes towards the candle but is unable to move its head, 
it will gaze on the light so fixedly that cases are known where a 
squint has resulted, through the eyes retaining the position in 
which their delicate young structure has become set by habit. 
And we find the same intense concentration of interest, in the 
child’s soul, upon the other bodily senses, so far as its age allows; 
so that strong repulsion or appetite will only be excited in it by 
what offends or attracts the flesh. Its thoughts are not turned 
inward upon itself, and introspection cannot be suggested to it; 
since it is still ignorant of the means of suggestion, which are 
principally the words of which (as of so much else) it knows 
nothing. But it was shown in the same Book that not to reflect 
upon oneself is a different thing from not knowing one- 
self, 

8. tiowever, we may pass over the age of infancy, which we 
cannot question about its experiences, and which we ourselves 
have largely forgotten. It will be enough for us to take it as cer- 
tain that when a man becomes able to think about the nature of 
his own mind and to discover the truth, he will not discover it 
elsewhere than in himself. And what he will discover is not 
something he did not know but something he did not think 
about. What can we know, if we are ignorant of what is in our 
own mind, since the mind is the necessary medium of all our 
knowledge? (vi). Yet such is the power of thought that it is 
only by thinking that the mind can set itself as it were in its own 
view. Nothing is in the mind’s view but when it is thought 
about; and that implies that even the mind itself which is the 
only agent of thought can only be in its own view by thinking 

20 Bk. X, 7 (v). 



THE TRINITY 


105 

about itself. The question how it can be conceived not to be in 
its own view when not thinking of itself, although it can never 
be separated from itself, is one that I cannot answer. It seems 
as if its ‘‘view” and “itself” were two different things — ^which 
is a reasonable enough way of speaking in the case of the bodily 
eye; for while the eye itself has its own fixed position in the body, 
its view is directed to external objects and can extend even to 
the stars. Nor is the eye in its own view at all, since it cannot see 
itself except as reflected in a mirror, as we remarked before^^; 
whereas there is nothing to correspond with that reflection when 
the mind by the thought of itself places itself in its own view. 
We can hardly suppose that in thinking of itself the mind is 
seeing one part of itself with another part, as we see with one 
part of our body, the eye, other parts which can be in our view. 
The supposition and the statement of it are equally absurd. If 
the mind is removed, it is removed from itself: if it is set in its 
own view, it is set before itself. This implies a change in its 
position from the one occupied when it was not in its own view, 
as though it were removed from one place and set in another. 
But if it has shifted in order to be seen, where does it stay in 
order to see? Is there a sort of duplication of it, so that it can 
occupy two positions, one for seeing and another for being seen, 
in itself for seeing, before itself for being seen^ 

The truth will return none of these answers to our enquiries; 
for the fact is that this way of thinking is occupied with images 
drawn from material objects, and that the mind is no such thing 
is absolutely certain — at least for those few “minds” that can 
tell us the truth in this matter. It remains only for us to recog- 
nize that the “view” of the mind is something essential to its 
nature, to which it is recalled when it thinks of itself by no 
spatial movement but by a spiritual turning. And when it is not 
thinking of itself, though it is not in its own view and its seeing 
is not defined by its nature, yet it knows itself in its capacity as 
self-memory. In the same way, the knowledge possessed by the 
expert in a number of sciences is contained in his memory, and 
no part of it is in the view of his mind except when he thinks of 
It, the rest being shut away in that hidden storing place of know- 
ledge which we call memory. 

Hence we developed an account of the mental trinity, in 
which memory supplied the source from which the thinker’s 
view receives its form, the conformation itself being a kind of 
image imprinted by the memory, and the agency by which the 

Bk. X, 5 (ill). 



I06 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

two are conjoined being love or will. Thus when the mind re- 
gards itself in the act of thought, it understands and takes 
knowledge of itself, we may say that it begets this self-under- 
standing and self-knowledge. For an object that is incorporeal 
is seen when it is understood, and is known by the act of under- 
standing. But this begetting by the mind of self-knowledge, when 
it regards itself as understood in thought, does not imply that it 
was previously unknown to itself. It was so known, in the way 
that things held in the memory are known, though not thought 
upon: as we say that a man knows letters, even when he is 
thinking not of letters but of other things. And to these two, the 
begetter and the begotten, we have to add the love which joins 
them together, and is simply the will, pursuing or embracing 
an object of enjoyment. 22 Accordingly, for the indication of our 
mental trinity we found these three names appropriate: mem- 
ory, understanding and will. 

9. Towards the end of the same tenth Book we said that the 
mind always remembers itself and always understands and 
loves itself, although it does not always think of itself in isolation 
from all that is of a different nature from itself. 2 3 We must ask, 
then, in what sense understanding is to be assigned to the act of 
thinking, while the knowledge of any object, which is in the 
mind even when it is not being thought about, is properly 
assigned to memory alone. If this is so, the three functions of 
memory, understanding and love of itself will not have been 
always present together in the mind. It will only have had the 
memory of itself, and the understanding and love of itself will 
have ensued when it began to think of itself (vii). To meet 
this difficulty, let us look more closely at the case previously 
adduced to show the difference between not knowing a thing 
and not thinking of it; so that it is possible for a man to know 
something of which he is not thinking, when his thought is 
occupied with something else. An expert in two or more arts 
may, when he is thinking of one of them, know another or a num- 
ber of others even if he is not thinking of them. But can we 
properly say, ^^This musician knows music, but does not at this 
moment understand it, because he is not thinking of it; but he 
understands geometry at this moment, for geometry is what he 
is thinking about?” Such a statement appears to be absurd; and 
no less absurd would be the statement, “This musician knows 

22 This definition well shows the relation in Augustine’s language of “love,” 
“will,” and “enjoyment.” Love does not cease to be love when its desire 
is satisfied. 23 See note on Bk. X, 18 (xii). 



THE TRINITY 


107 

music, but does not at this moment love it, since he is not think- 
ing of it; but he loves geometry at this moment, since geometry 
is what he is thinking about.” What we may quite properly say 
is: ‘^This man whom you observe discussing geometry is also a 
finished musician; for he remembers that art, understands it and 
loves it; but while knowing and loving it, he is not at this 
moment thinking of it because he is thinking of the geometry 
which he is discussing.” This suggests to us the existence “at the 
back of our minds” of certain stores of knowledge of certain 
things, which as it were come forward into the middle and take 
more open position in the mind’s view, when they become the 
object of thought. Then the mind discovers that it remembered, 
understood and loved what it was not thinking about while 
thinking of something else. If there is a subject of which we have 
not thought for a long time, and of which we cannot begin to 
think unless it is suggested to us, then with regard to it we are 
in the strange position (if the paradox may be allowed) of not 
knowing that we know it. In fact it is proper for the giver of the 
reminder to say to the receiver of it: “You know this, but you 
do not know that you know it: I will remind you of it, and you 
will find yourself knowing what you had thought you did not 
know.” The same is the eflfect of a book written on some 
theme of which the reader is led by reason to discover the truth. 
He does not take its truth on trust from the writer, as when he 
is reading history: he himself finds it to be true, whether the 
finding be his own or that of the very Truth which is the mind’s 
light. The man whose blindness of heart is such that no prompt- 
ing can enable him to perceive such truths, is too deeply sunk 
in the darkness of ignorance, and needs the miracle of divine 
aid in order to reach true wisdom. 

10. This was why I sought to illustrate the process of thought 
by some kind of example which might show how from the con- 
tent of memory the remembering attention takes form, and 
something is brought to birth, in die person who thinks, of the 
same kind as what was in him as the possessor of memory before 
the thinking process. It is easier to distinguish things that are not 
simultaneous, and where the parent is prior in time to the “off- 
spring.” If we look at the mind’s inward memory whereby it 
remembers itself, its inward understanding whereby it under- 
stands itself, and its inward wiU whereby it loves itself, we are 
dealing with a state in which these three are ever present to- 
gether and were ever present together from their beginning, 
whether they were objects of thought or not. And thus it will 



I08 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

seem that the image of the Trinity belongs to the sphere of 
memory alone. Yet there can be no ‘‘word” without thought; 
for we think whatever we say, even if it be with the inward word 
that IS of no particular language. So the image is to be dis- 
covered rather in the three functions of memory, understanding 
and will — “understanding’^ being here taken to denote the 
faculty by which we come to understand in the process of 
thought: that is to say, when our thinking takes form through 
the “bringing forth” of what was present to the memory but 
not thought of. And the word “will” means the love which 
unites the “offspring” and its “parent,” and which is in a 
manner common to both. 

It was, as I say, in order to make these distinctions easier for 
the reader to grasp that I used in the eleventh Book the field of 
external sense-perception to illustrate them; and thence ad- 
vanced to the consideration of that faculty of the inward man 
which uses the power of reason upon things temporal, while I 
postponed for later treatment the other and sovereign faculty by 
which he contemplates things eternal. This occupied two Books, 
the twelfth dealing with the difference of one faculty from the 
other, as the lower from the higher to which it should be 
subordinate; and the thirteenth with the function of the lower, 
as including the salutary knowledge of human affairs which helps 
us in this temporal life so to act that we may attain to the life 
eternal. I treated of this as faithfully as I could, but in brief; for 
I had to cover in the limits of a single Book a subject of manifold 
and copious detail which has been the theme of many great works 
of many great writers. In this sphere also I pointed to a trinity, 
though still not such a one as to be called the image of God. 

II (viii). Now we have reached the point in our discussion 
at which we have undertaken to consider that highest element 
in the human mind whereby it knows or can know God, with a 
view to our finding therein the image of God. Although the 
human mind is not of that nature which belongs to God, yet 
the image of that nature which transcends every other in excel- 
lence is to be sought and found in the element which in our own 
nature is the most excellent. But first we have to consider the 
mind in itself, before it has participation in God, and discover 
his image there. We have said that it still remains the image of 
God, although an image faded and defaced by the loss of that 
participation. It is in virtue of the fact that it has a capacity for 
God and the ability to participate in God, that it is his image^^; 

24 Cf. 6 (iv), above, n. 15 



THE TRINITY 


109 

only because it is his image can so high a destiny be conceived 
for it. Here then is the mind, remembering itself, understanding 
itself, loving itself. Perceiving this, we perceive a trinity — a 
trinity still less than God, but already an image of God. In this 
trinity, the memory has not imported from outside what it 
should retain, nor has the understanding discovered in the 
outer world the object for its beholding, like the body’s eye. The 
will has not in this case made an outward union of these two, 
as of the material form and its derivative in the sight of the be- 
holder. An image of the external object seen, taken up as it were 
and stored in the memory, has not been discovered by thought 
directed towards it, and thence form been given to the recol- 
lecting attention, while the two are united by the further 
activity of will. This was the system displayed in those trinities 
which we found to exist in material processes, or to pass some- 
how into our inward experience from the external body 
through the bodily sense. All this we discussed in the eleventh 
Book. 

Nor is our present trinity the same as that which we found 
existing or presenting itself to us in our discussion of the know- 
ledge (as distinct from wisdom) whose sphere is the activity of 
the inward man. The objects of this knowledge form an ad- 
ventitious element in the mind: they may be introduced by 
historical information, like the things done and said, transacted 
and passing in time, or the things locally and geographically 
situated in the natural world; or they may arise from non- 
existence within the man himself, either through the teaching 
of others or through his own reflections, like the faith which in 
the thirteenth Book we set forth at such length, or like the 
virtues which, if they are real, make the life of our present mor- 
tal condition good, in order that we may attain in the im- 
mortality which God has promised us the life which is blessed. 
These and the hke matters are disposed in a temporal succession, 
which made it more easy for us to discover the trinity of memory, 
vision and love.^s For some of them exist prior to the learners’ 
knowledge of them: they are knowable before they are known, 
and beget the knowledge of themselves in the learners. Either 
they still exist in their own places, or they belong to time past: 
in the latter case, what exists is not themselves but certain signs 
of their past existence, the sight or hearing of which gives the 
knowledge that they once were and now are past. Such signs 

25 Here vmo and am(yr are (exceptionally) substituted for intelhgentia and 

voluntas. 



no AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

may be locally situated, as memorials of the dead and the like. 
They may be preserved in credible works of literature, such as 
any reputable and authoritative history. Or they may be in the 
minds of men who already know the facts: what is already 
known to them is knowable for others, to whose knowledge it is 
prior, and who can come to know it through the instruction of 
those to whom it is known. All this, in the process of its being 
learnt, presents a kind of trinity: the reality which was know- 
able before it was known, the application to it of the knowledge 
of the learner which comes into existence with the learning, and 
thirdly the will which unites the two. And after the knowledge is 
acquired, another tnnity appears in more inward form with its 
recollection in the mind itself, composed of the images impressed 
in the process of learning upon the memory, the form given to 
thought when the remembering attention is directed to them, 
and the will which unites the two. With regard to that which 
arises in the mind where it had not been before, such as faith 
and the like, this appears indeed to be adventitious in that it is 
implanted through teaching; but it is not, hke the objects of 
belief, situated or transacted in the outer world, but originates 
entirely within the mind itself. Faith is not the object but the 
act of belief: the object is believed, the act is perceived. But since 
it originates in the mind, which was already mind before faith 
began to exist in it, it seems adventitious in character, and it will 
be counted among things past, when its place is taken by sight 
and itself ceases to be. The trinity composed by faith when it is 
present, as held, regarded and loved, is not, as we have already 
said, the same as that which will be traceable as a rehc left in 
the memory by its passing.^^ 

12 (ix). It may further be asked whether in the life to come 
the virtues which make life good in our state of mortality, must 
cease to be when they have brought the soul home to the eternal 
world; for they too have their beginning in the mind, which has 
a prior existence without them, in which it is none the less mind. 
Some have supposed that they will cease; and in the case of 
three of them, prudence, fortitude, and self-control, this view 
has much in its favour. But justice (or righteousness) at least is 
immortal, and will rather be made perfect in us in the life to 
come, than cease to be. Yet that great and eloquent writer, 
Cicero, in his dialogue Hortensim'^'^ argues as follows concerning 

26 Cf 5 (ill), above 

27 A lost work of Cicero which made a lasting impression upon Augustine 

in his youth (see Conf , III, 7 (iv)). 



THE TRINITY 


III 


all the four: when we have passed out of this life, we should 

be permitted, as stories tell, to Hve immortally in the islands of 
the blest, what need should we have of eloquence, with no 
courts to plead in, or even of the virtues themselves? We could 
not require fortitude when no toil or danger confronted us, or 
justice, when no other man’s possessions could be coveted, or 
self-control for the ruling of passions no longer existing, or even 
prudence, when there would be no choice to make between good 
and evil. Our blessedness would consist solely in the cognizance 
and knowledge of nature, which alone makes admirable even 
the life of gods. From which we may infer that all the rest is 
grounded in necessity and only this in free will.” — Thus the 
great orator, when he comes to sing the praises of philosophy, 
recalling his debt to the philosophers and expounding it with 
mastery and charm, maintains that all four virtues are necessary 
in this life only, full as we know it of cares and errors; but none 
of them when we have passed out of it, if we are permitted to 
live where life is blessed. He believes that the good soul is 
blessed through nothing else but the cognizance and knowledge, 
which is contemplation, of that Nature which is supremely good 
and lovable — the Nature, that is, which has created and ordered 
all natures else. If to be subject to that Nature’s rule belongs to 
justice, then justice certainly is immortal; nor will it cease to 
exist in that blessed state, but will be of a perfection and a 
greatness beyond the possibility of increase. Perhaps the other 
three virtues also — ^prudence with no risk of error remaimng, 
fortitude without the trouble of ills to be endured, self-control 
with no recalcitrant passions — may yet exist in that state of 
happiness. It may be the act of prudence to think no good pre- 
ferable or equal to God; of fortitude, to cleave to him immov- 
ably; of self-control, to take pleasure in no harmful defection. 
But the present work of justice, in supporting the oppressed, of 
prudence, in taking heed of snares, of fortitude, in the endurance 
of troubles, of self-control, in the restraint of corrupt pleasures — 
of these there wiU be nothing in that life which will contain 
nothing at all of evil. Accordingly, these activities of the virtues, 
necessary to our mortal hfe as is the faith to which they must be 
referred, will be accounted as things past; and the trinity now 
composed when we hold, regard, and love them as present, is 
not the same as that trinity which will exist w^hen we find, 
through those traces which their passing will leave in the mem- 
ory, that they once were but are no longer. For there will be a 
trinity, when of this so-called trace there is both a retention in 



II2 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

the memory and a true recognition, and a union of both by the 
will. 

13 (x). In the knowledge of all those temporal matters, to 
which we have here referred, certain of the things knowable pre- 
cede the knowing of them by an interval of time: such are the 
sensible properties which were already in the outward objects 
before they were perceived, and all the facts of historical know- 
ledge. Certain others originate simultaneously with being 
known: if for example an obj'ect of sight which had no previous 
existence should arise before our eyes, it cannot precede our 
knowing of it; or if a sound is caused in the presence of a hearer, 
the sQui!»nd the hearing of it begin and cease simultaneously. 
But wheiljfer their origin is precedent or simultaneous, it is the 
'^knowables” that beget the knowledge and not vice versa. And 
when the knowledge has been effected, and the things known 
take their place in the memory and are recalled to view in the 
act of recollection, it is obvious that the retention in the memory 
is temporally prior both to the recollecting vision and to the 
union of the two by will. It is not so however with the mind 
itself. It cannot be adventitious to itself, as though to a self 
already in being there should come from elsewhere an identical 
self previously non-existent, or as though, instead of coming 
from elsewhere, there should be born in the existing self an 
identical self which did not exist before, in the way that faith 
arises from non-existence in the existing mind. Nor does the 
mind, after coming to know itself, see itself by recollection as 
established in its own memory, as though it had not been there 
before becoming the object of its own knowledge. Assuredly, 
from the moment of its beginning to be, the mind has never 
ceased to know itself, to understand itself, and to love itself, as 
we have already demonstrated. Therefore, in its act of turning 
upon itself in thought, a trinity is presented in which it is pos- 
sible to recognize a “word” — formed from the act of thinking, 
and united to its original by will. Here, then, is where we may 
recognize the image for which we are seeking. 

14 (xi). It may be objected that the faculty by which the 
mind, which is ever present to itself, is said to “remember” 
itself, cannot properly be called memory. For memory is of 
things past, not of things present. Some writers upon the virtues, 
including Cicero, have analysed prudence into the three ele- 
ments of memory, understanding and foresight, assigning 
memory to what is past, understanding to what is present, and 

28 Cicero, De Inv. Rhet, II, 53. 



THE TRINITY 


II3 

foresight to what is future — the last being reliable only in those 
who have fore-knowledge of future events, an attribute which 
does not belong to men unless it be given from above, as to the 
prophets. So the scriptural Book of Wisdom says of men that 
“the thoughts of men are fearful, and our foreseeings uncer- 
tain.” 29 Memory of things past, and understanding of things 
present, are reliable — that is, when the things present are in- 
corporeal: for corporeal things are present, not to understanding 
but to the beholding of the bodily eyes. In answer to the objec- 
tion that there is no memory of things present, we may point to 
an expression in secular hterature, where there was more care 
for verbal correctness than for truth of fact: 

“Ulysses would not brook such outrage. 

Nor in that testing hour forget himself.” 

When Vergil says that Ulysses did not forget himself, he is say- 
ing in other words that the hero remembered himself; and that, 
since he was certainly present to himself, could only be if 
memory were apphcable to things present. Memory therefore 
in the case of things past denotes the faculty by which they may 
be reviewed and recollected; in the case of an object present, as 
is the mind to itself, the same name may be given without ab- 
surdity to the mind’s possession of itself m such a way as to be 
understandable by its own act of thought, and to be capable of 
the union of possession and understanding through the act of 
self-love. 

15 (xii). Now this trinity of the mind is God’s image, not 
because the mind remembers, understands and loves itself; but 
because it has the power also to remember, understand and 
love its Maker. 31 And it is in so doing that it attains wisdom. If 
it does not so, the memory, understanding and love of itself is 
no more than an act of folly. Let the mind then remember its 
God, in whose image it was made, let it understand him and 
love him. In a word, let it worship the uncreated God who 
created it with the capacity for himself, and in whom it is able 
to be made partaker. For this cause it is written: “Behold, the 
worship of God is wisdom.” 32 Wisdom will be the mind’s, not 
by its own illumination, but by partaking in that supreme Light; 
and only when it enters eternity will it reign in bhss. But to say 
that a man may possess such wisdom is not to deny that it is the 

29 Wisdom 9:14. 30 Verg., Aen., Ill, 628 f, 

31 The remaimng chapters of the Book contain the climax of the whole 

argument. 32 Job 28 : 28. 



AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


1 14 

property of God. God’s is the only true wisdom: were it human^ 
it would be vain. Yet when we call it the wisdom of God, we do 
not mean the wisdom wherewith God is wise: he is not wise by 
partaking in himself, as is the mind by partaking in God. It is 
rather as we speak of the righteousness of God, not only in the 
sense of that whereby God is righteous, but of that which he 
gives to man when he “justifies the ungodly”: to which the 
apostle refers when he speaks of those who “being ignorant of 
God’s righteousness, and willing to establish their own right- 
eousness, were not subject to the righteousness of God.” ^3 In 
the same way we might speak of some who being ignorant of the 
wisdom of God, and wilhng to estabhsh their own, were not 
subject to the wisdom of God. 

16. There is an uncreated Being who has made all other 
beings great and small, unquestionably surpassing all that he 
has made, and so surpassing also the reasonable and spiritual 
being of which we have been speaking, namely the mind of man, 
made in the image of its Creator. And the Being surpassing all 
others is God. He is, indeed “not far from each one of us,” as 
the apostle says; adding: “for in him we live and move, and 
have our being.” ^4 If this were spoken in a material sense, it 
could be understood of our material world: for in it too, so far 
as our body is concerned, we hve and move and are. We must 
take the text, then, as spoken of the mind which is made in his 
image, and of a manner of being more excellent, not visible, but 
spiritual. What is there indeed that is not “in him,” of whom 
Holy Scripture says: “for from him and through him and in him 
are all things”? ^5 If in him are all things, in whom, save in him 
in whom they are, can the hving hve or the moving move? Yet 
aU men are not with him after the manner of the saying “I am 
alway with thee.” Nor is he with all after the manner of our 
own saying, “the Lord be with you.” It is man’s great misery, 
not to be with him, without whom man cannot be. Certainly, 
man is never without him, in whom he is; yet if a man does not 
remember him, does not understand him, nor love him, he is 
not with him. But complete oblivion makes it impossible even 
to be reminded of what we have forgotten. 

17 (xiii). We may take on this point an example from the 
visible world. A man whom you do not recognize says to you: 
“You know me”; and as a reminder, he tells you where, when, 
and how you became acquainted with him. If, after you have 

33 Rom 4 5, 10*3. 34 Acts 17*27 f. 

35 Rom. 1 1 36. 36 Ps, 73 23. 



THE TRINITY 


13:5 

been given all the clues which could revive your memory of 
him, you stiU do not recognize him, it means that you have for- 
gotten him so completely that no trace of the former knowledge 
remains in your mind; and nothing remains but for you to 
believe his assurance that you once knew him — or not even 
that, if the speaker does not appear to you worthy of credit. If, 
however, you do remember, clearly you are going back to your 
memory, and finding there what had not been entirely for- 
gotten and obliterated. Let us now return to the point which 
led us to draw this parallel from human intercourse. We find 
in the ninth Psalm the words: ‘Tet the sinners be turned into 
hell, all the nations that forget God.”^? Qr again, in the 
twenty-second: “All the ends of the earth shall be reminded, and 
shall turn unto the Lord.’" These nations, then, had not so 
far forgotten God that they could not remember him when re- 
minded. By forgetting God, as though forgetting their own life, 
they had been turned unto death, that is, into heU. But, on being 
reminded, they turn to the Lord, reviving again through the 
remembrance of their life, of which forgetfulness had deprived 
them. We may compare the text of the ninety-fourth Psalm: 
“Understand now, ye unwise among the people: return at last, 
ye fools, to wisdom. He that planted the ear, shall he not hear?” 
etc. 39 The words are addressed to those who through lacking 
understanding of God have spoken vain things concermng him. 

18 (xiv). For the love of God, we can find many references 
in Scripture, where the presence of the other two elements in 
the mind is logically implied: in that no-one can love what he 
does not remember, or of which he is wholly without know- 
ledge. Most familiar is the first great commandment: “Thou 
shalt love the Lord thy God.” ^0 The natural constitution of the 
human mind is such that it is never without the memory, the 
understanding, and the love of itself. But since with hate of a 
man goes the desire to do him hurt, it is with good reason that 
man’s mind may be said to hate itself when it is hurtful to itself. 
Its ill-will to itself is unconscious, because it does not suppose 
that what it wants is injurious: yet in wanting what is injurious, 
it is willing evil to itself. So it is written: “He that loveth 
iniquity, hateth his own soul.” Therefore the man who knows 
how to love himself, loves God; while the man who does not 
love God, though he retains the love of self which belongs to his 
nature, may yet properly be said to hate himself when he does 

37 Ps. 9' 17. 38 Ps. 212:27. 39 Ps, 94:8 f, 

40 Deut 6.5. 41 Ps. 11:5. 



AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


Il6 

what is contrary to his own good and behaves to himself as an 
enemy. It is indeed a fearful delusion by which, though all men 
desire their own advantage, so many do only what works their 
ruin. A like distemper in dumb animals is described by Vergil 
in the words, 

. . . “God guard his servants from such error, 

And send it on his enemies! — to tear 
With naked fangs their mangled limbs”. . . ^2 

The poet can speak of a bodily disease as “error,” inasmuch as 
every creature is naturally its own friend and guardian, and the 
effect of this disease was to make beasts mutilate the body whose 
well-being was their aim. 

When the mind loves God, and consequently (as has been 
said) remembers him and understands him, there rightly follows 
the command concerning one’s neighbour, to love him as one- 
self. For the mind’s love of itself becomes right instead of per- 
verted, when It loves God, by partaking in whom the image we 
speak of not only exists but is transformed from old to new, from 
disfigurement to shapeliness, from unhappiness to beatitude. 
The power of self-love is such that if a man must choose he will 
rather lose all that he loves in the world below him than him- 
self be lost. Only with the God above him, to whom the 
Psalmist sings “My strength will I keep safe with thee,” and 
again “Draw near unto him, and be lightened, can a man 
keep safe his strength and enjoy the divine light as his own. But 
the mind that forsakes the God above it becomes so feeble and 
darkened that, through loves it cannot quell and errors out of 
which it sees no way of return, it falls miserably away from itself 
into the things which are ahen and inferior to itself. So the 
penitent, who already has knowledge of God’s mercy, cries in 
the Psalm: “My strength hath forsaken me, and the light of my 
eyes is not with me.” 

19. Yet even in such evil case of infirmity and error, the mind 
could not lose its natural memory, understanding and love of 
itself; and so is justified the saying quoted above “Though 
man walketh in an image, yet is he vainly disquieted: he heap- 
eth up treasures, and knoweth not for whom he shall gather 
them.” Why does he heap up treasures, but because his 
strength hath forsaken him — the strength in which, possessing 
God, he could have need of nothing? And why does he not know 

42 Verg., Georg,, III, 513 f. 43 Ps. 59 9; 34:5. 

44 Ps. 38: 10. 45 Bk. XIV, 4 (11). 



THE TRINITY 


II7 

for whom he shall gather them but because the light of his eyes 
is not with him? — so that he cannot see what the truth would 
tell him: “Thou fool, this night they require thy soul of thee; 
then whose shall those things be which thou hast prepared?” 
Yet man, fallen as he is, still “walketh in an image,” and his 
mind retains a memory, understanding, and love of himself; so 
that if it were made plain to him that he cannot have both, and a 
choice offered of one of the two with loss of the other — either the 
treasures which he has gathered, or his mind — there is no-one 
so mindless as to prefer treasures to mind. Treasures can very 
often overthrow the mind; but the mind that is not overthrown 
by treasures can live an easier and more unhampered life with- 
out any of them. Nor can there be any possession of treasures 
save by means of the mind. An infant born to the greatest 
riches, though master of all that is legally his, possesses nothing 
when his mind slumbers. How then can anything be possessed 
by one whose mind is lost? Indeed it is superfluous to urge that 
any man, confronted with the choice, must prefer the depriva- 
tion of treasures to the deprivation of mind. No-one could prefer 
treasures, or even compare them for value, to the eyes in his 
body, which give possession not as of gold to the favoured few 
but of the wide heaven to every man. By use of the bodily eyes 
everyone possesses all that he delights to see. Who then would 
not choose, if he could not keep both and must perforce be de- 
prived of one, to lose his treasures rather than his eyes? Yet if 
he were asked on similar terms whether he would rather lose 
eyes or mind, every “mind” must see that he would keep his 
mind and lose his eyes. For the mind without the eyes of flesh is 
still human, but the eyes of flesh without mind are the eyes of a 
beast. Who would not rather be a blind man than a seeing 
beast? 

20. My purpose in this argument has been to bring home in 
brief, to the least acute intelhgence among those who may read 
or hear what I have written, the force of the mind’s love of itself, 
even when it is weak and erring through the mistaken love and 
pursuit of what is beneath it. Now it could not love itself, if it 
were altogether ignorant of itself — that is, if it had no memory 
of itself — and did not understand itself. Such potency it has by 
virtue of this image of God that is in it, that it can be strong to 
cleave to him whose image it is. It has been set in that place in 
the order of reality (which is no spatial order) where there is none 
above it but God. And when its cleaving to him has become 

46 Luke 12.20. 



Il8 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

absolute, it will be one spirit with him: witness the words of the 
apostle, ‘‘He that is joined to the Lord is one spirit.” ^7 xhe 
mind will be raised to the participation of his being, truth and 
bliss, though nothing thereby be added to the being, truth, and 
bliss which is his own. In that being, joined to it in perfect hap- 
piness, it will hve a changeless life and enjoy the changeless 
vision of all that it will behold. Then, according to the promise 
of Holy Scripture, its “desire will be satisfied with good 
things,” with goods unchanging, the very Trinity itself, its 
God whose image it is; and, that never again despite be done to 
that image, it will abide “in the secret place of his counten- 
ance,”"^^ so filled with his abundant riches that sin can never 
more delight it. 

But here and now, when the mind regards itself, the thing it 
sees is not unchangeable. 21 (xv). Of that it can have no 
doubt, since it is miserable and longs for blessedness: only be- 
cause it can change, can it hope that blessedness is possible for 
it. For if it were unchangeable, it could pass neither from bliss 
to misery nor from misery to bliss. Nothing could have 
brought it to misery under a Lord omnipotent and good, but 
its own sin and its Lord’s righteousness. Nothing will make it 
blessed, but its own desert and its Lord’s rewarding; and 
even its desert is the grace of him whose reward its blessedness 
will be. 50 For it cannot give itself the righteousness which it 
has lost and lacks. In iLe creation of man it received that 
righteousness, and by its own sinning inevitably lost it. There- 
fore it must receive the nghteousness for which it may deserve 
to receive beatitude. To a mind inclining to take pride in a 
good supposed of its own making, the truth is told by the 
apostle: “What hast thou that thou hast not received? and if 
thou hast received, why dost thou boast thyself as though thou 
hadst not received?” 5i But when it duly remembers its Lord, it 
receives his Spirit, and becomes fully conscious of the truth 
learnt from the indwelling Teacher, that it can rise only by his 
undeserved goodness, even as it could have fallen only by its 
own voluntary default. It has indeed no memory of its own 
blessedness; for that was once and is no longer, and the mind 
has totally forgotten it, so that no reminder can bring it back. 
It can only beheve, on the faith of the Scriptures of its God, 
written by his prophet, the story of a happiness of paradise and 

47 I Cor. 6: 17 . 48 Ps 103 5. 49 Ps 31 20. 

50 ‘‘Man’s good deservings are the gift of God” (Enchirid ^ 28 (cvii)). 

51 1 Cor. 4 : 7 . 



THE TRINITY 


the account conveyed in narrative form of man’s original good 
and eviL But it has the memory of the Lord its God. For he ever 
is — ^neither was and is not, nor is and was not, but never was 
not, even as never he will not be. And he is every^vhere in his 
wholeness; so that in him the mind lives and moves and has its 
being, and therefore has the power to remember him. Not that 
it recollects having once known him in Adam, or anywhere else 
before this bodily hfe, or at its first making and planting in this 
body. Of none of these things has it any memory whatsoever: 
all of them are buried in oblivion. But it can be so reminded as 
to turn again unto the Lord, who is the light by which even in 
its turning away from him it was still somehow touched. Hence 
comes the ability even in the godless to think of an eternal 
world, and rightly to assign blame and praise in the field of 
human morality. The norms by which they make such judg- 
ments must be those m which they see how every man ought to 
live, though their own lives be no example of it. Where do they 
see such norms? Not in their own nature; for while it is cer- 
tainly the mind that sees them, their minds are admittedly 
changeable, and the changelessness of these norms is manifest 
to all who have the power to see it. Not in the fashion of their 
own mind; for the norms are norms of righteousness, and their 
minds are admittedly unrighteous. Where are the norms written, 
in which what is nghteous is recognized by the unrighteous, in 
which he sees that what he has not is truly worth having? Where, 
but in the book of that light which is called truth, ^ 3 out of which 
every righteous law is copied and passes into the heart of 
the man who works righteousness — ^passes not by transference 
but by impression, even as the seal of a ring passes into the wax 
without leaving the ring. But as for him who works not, and 
yet sees what right worlang is, he it is who turns aside from the 
light by which none the less he is being touched. The man who 
does not even see how he ought to hve, sins with more excuse 
since he is not transgressor of a law he knows; yet even he may 
sometimes feel the touch of truth’s omni-present shining, when 
he admits the justice of an admonition. 22 (xvi). Those who 
are moved by the reminder to turn again to the Lord, out of 
that state of deformity wherein worldly desires conformed them 
to this world, must receive from the Lord their re-forma- 
tion, according to the apostle’s saying: “Be not conformed to 
this world, but be reformed in newness of your mind”54; the 

52 Augustine will not allow that the Fall has severed man’s relation to God. 

53 Gf. Bk. VIII, 9 (Vl). 54 Rom. 12 . 2 . 



120 


AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


beginning of the image’s re-forming must come from him who 
first formed it. The self which it was able to deform, it cannot 
of itself re-form. In another place the apostle says: '‘Be renewed 
in the spint of your mind, and put on the new man, which is 
created after God in righteousness and holiness of truth.” 5 5 xhe 
words "after God” correspond to what we read elsewhere: "in 
the image of God.” ^6 Through sm, righteousness and holiness 
of truth were lost; wherefore this image has become deformed 
and faded. The mind receives it again, when it is re-formed and 
renewed. 

(“The spirit of your mind” does not here imply two separate 
things, one the mind, and the other the mind’s spirit. It means 
that while every mind is a spirit, not every spirit is a mind. God 
also IS a spirit, who cannot be renewed since he cannot grow 
old. The word “spirit” is also used for something in a man 
which is not mind, and to which belong imaginings in the like- 
ness of bodily objects: we find this in the text of the letter to the 
Corinthians, “If I pray with a tongue, my spirit prayeth, but my 
mind is unfruitful.” That describes what happens, when what 
is spoken is not understood. It could not be spoken, unless the 
images of material sounds were present in the thought of the 
spirit before their vocal enunciation. Again, the human soul 
may be called “spirit,” as in the words of the Gospel: “He 
bowed his head and gave up his spirit,” signifying the body’s 
death when the soul leaves it. “Spirit” may even be applied to 
a beast: this is explicit in the book of Solomon, Ecclesiastes, 
where we read: “Who Imoweth the spirit of the sons of men 
whether it shall ascend upwards, or the spirit of the beast 
whether it shall go down into the earth?” ^9 Also in the book of 
Genesis, concerning the death in the flood of all flesh, “that had 
in itself the spirit of life.” ^0 The word is used also of wind, a 
thing plainly material, as in the Psalms: “Fire and hail, snow 
and ice, the spirit of the storm.” “Spirit,” then, having so 
many possible senses, Paul means by his phrase “the spirit of the 
mind,” that spirit which we call “mind.” Similarly, the same 
apostle writes: “in the putting off of the body of flesh.” Here 
there is no implication of two different things, one flesh and the 
other the body of flesh; but since many fleshless things may be 
called “body” (many bodies celestial and bodies terrestrial 
other than those of flesh), Paul uses “body of flesh” for that 

55 Eph. 4.23f. 56 Gen. 1:27. 57 l Cor. 14:14. 

58 John 19 30. 59 Eccl. 3.21. 50 Gen. 7:22. 

.51 Ps. 148:8. 52 Col. 2:11. 



THE TRINITY 


I2I 


body which is flesh. And in the same way he uses ‘‘spirit of the 
mind’^ for the spirit which is mind.) 

Elsewhere we find the image named more explicitly, as when 
the same exhortation is given in other words: “Putting off the 
old man with his doings, put on the new man who is renewed in 
the knowledge of God after the image of his Creator.” ^3 Where 
the former text has, “after God,” the latter gives “after the 
image of his Creator”; and where the former has “in righteous- 
ness and holiness of truth,” we have in the latter, “in the know- 
ledge of God.” Thus the renewal and reforming of the mind 
takes place “after God,” or “after God’s image”: it is said to be 
“after God,” to exclude its being supposed to be after some 
other creature; and “after God’s image,” to make it plain that 
the renewal is effected in the place where God’s image is, that is, 
in the mind. In the same way w^’e say of the faithful and right- 
eous departed that he is dead “after the body,” but not “after 
the spirit.” Dead “after the body” means dead with or in the 
body, and not dead with or in the soul. To speak of a man as 
beautiful after the body, or strong after the body, not after the 
mind, is to say that his beauty and strength is not mental but 
bodily. The manner of speech is very common. We are not, 
then, to understand “after the image of his Creator” as implying 
some other image after which man is renewed, rather than the 
actual image which is renewed. 

23 (xvii). Of course, the renewal of which we speak is not 
effected in the single moment of return, like the renewal which 
takes place in baptism in a single moment through the remission 
of all sins — none whatsoever remaimng unremitted. But it is 
one thing to be reheved of fevers, and another to regain health 
after the weakness which fevers have caused. It is one thing to 
withdraw a dart from the body, and another to heal by further 
treatment the wound it has inflicted. So here, cure’s beginning 
is to remove the cause of sickness; and that is done through the 
forgiveness of all sins. Its furtherance is the healing of the sick- 
ness Itself, which takes effect by gradual progress in the renewal 
of the image. Both are displayed in one text of the Psalm, where 
we read: “who shows mercy upon all thine iniquities” — ^which 
happens in baptism; and then: “who healeth all thy sick- 
nesses” — ^which is a matter of daily advances whereby the 

^3 Col. 3:9 f, 

^4 Less so in English than in Latin: the word “after” has been taken as the 
nearest equivalent of Augustine's secundum, 

Ps. 103:3. 



122 


AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


image is made anew. Of this the apostle has spoken in plain 
terms: ‘If our outward man decays, yet is our inward man re- 
newed from day to day” < 56 — ‘‘renewed,” as he has told us in the 
texts just quoted, “in the knowledge of God,” that is, “in 
righteousness and holiness of truth.” He who is thus renewed by 
daily advancing in the knowledge of God, in righteousness and 
holiness of truth, is changing the direction of his love from the 
temporal to the eternal, from the visible to the intelligible, from 
the carnal to the spiritual; diligently endeavouring to curb and 
abate all lust for the one, and to bind himself in charity to the 
other. In which all his success depends on the divine aid; for it 
is the word of God, that “without me ye can do nothing.” ^7 
When life’s last day finds a man, in such advancing and in- 
creasing, firm in the faith of the Mediator, the holy angels will 
be waiting to bring him home to the God whom he has served 
and by whom he must be perfected; and at the world’s end he 
will receive an incorruptible body, not for punishment but for 
glory. For in this image the likeness of God will be perfect only 
in the perfect vision of God: of which vision the apostle Paul 
says : “now we see through a glass darkly, but then face to face.” 
And again: “but we with unveiled face beholding the glory of 
the Lord, are transformed into the same image from glory 
into glory, as from the Spirit of the Lord”^^ — ^which des- 
cribes the daily process in those who go forward as they ought. 
24 (xviii). From the apostle John we have the saying: 
“Beloved, now are we sons of God, and it hath not yet appeared 
what we shall be: but we know that when he appears we shall be 
like him, for we shall see him as he is.” 7o This shows that the full 
hkeness of God is reahzed in his image only when it has attained 
the full vision of him. It may indeed be thought that the words 
of John refer to the immortality of the body; for in that too we 
shall be hke to God, if only to the Son, since he alone in the 
Trinity has taken upon him a body in which he died and rose 
again, and which he carried with him into heaven. We may 
speak here also of an image of the Son of God, in which we shall 
have an immortal body hke him, conformed in that particular 
to the image not of the Father or of the Holy Spirit but of the 
Son only. For of him alone do we read and receive in most 
wholesome faith, that “the Word was made flesh.” 7 i Thus the 
apostle says: “Whom he foreknew, them he also predestinated 

66 II Cor. 4* 1 6. 67 John 15:5. 

68 I Cor. 13:12. 69 II Cor. 3*18. 

70 John 3.2. 71 John i . 14. 



THE TRINITY 


123 

to be conformed to the image of his Son, that he might be first- 
born among many brethren.” “First-born,” indeed, “of the 
dead,” in the words of the same apostle — that death whereby 
his flesh was sown in dishonour and rose again m glory. ^4 After 
this image of the Son, to which we are conformed through im- 
mortahty in the body, we do according to another saying of 
Paul’s: “As we have borne the image of the earthly, let us bear 
also the image of him who is from heaven.” ’s That is, let us, 
who after Adam were mortal, believe with true faith and sure 
and steady hope that after Christ we shall be immortal. For so 
can we bear the same image now, not yet in vision but in faith, 
not yet in reality, but in hope. The apostle in fact was speaking 
of die resurrection of the body in the context of this saying. 

25 (xix). But if we think of that image of which it is writ- 
ten: “Let us make man in our image and hkeness,” not “in 
my image” or “m thy image” — ^we must believe that man was 
made in the image of the Trinity; and this is what we have de- 
voted our best efforts to trace out and understand. Accordingly 
we may better interpret in the sense of this image the words 
quoted from John: “We shall be like him, for we shall see him 
as he is.” The apostle is speaking here of him, of whom he has 
said: “we are sons of God.” Moreover, the immortahty of the 
flesh will be made perfect in the moment of resurrection, which 
(as Paul says) will be “in the twinkling of an eye, in the last 
trump: and the dead shall be raised uncomipted, and we shall 
be changed.” For in the twinkling of an eye there shall rise 
again before the judgment, in strength, incorruption, and glory, 
that spiritual body which now is being sown, a natural body, 
in weakness, corruption, and dishonour. But the image that is 
being renewed in the spirit of the mind, in the knowledge of 
God, not outwardly but mwardly from day to day, will be made 
perfect by that vision, face to face, that shall be after the judg- 
ment — ^the vision which now is but a-growing, through a glass 
darkly."^* And its perfecting is what we should understand by 
the words: “we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is.” 
This IS the gift then to be given us, when we hear the call: 
“Come, ye blessed of my Father, possess the kingdom prepared 
for you.” 7 ® Then shall be taken away the godless, so that he sees 
not the glory of the Lord, when those on the left hand go into 

w Rom. 8:29. Col. 1. 1 8. 

74 I Cor. 15:43 75 I Cor. 15-49. 

76 Gen. 1:26. 77 I Cor. 15:5a. 

78 1 Cor. 13:12. 79 Matt. 25:34. 



124 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

eternal punishment, and those on the right into eternal life. 
And, as the Truth has told us, “this is life eternal, that they may 
know thee the one true God, and Jesus Christ whom thou hast 
sent.” 

This wisdom of contemplation is, I believe, in its proper sense 
distinguished in Holy Scripture from knowledge, and named 
wisdom — a human wisdom, yet coming to man only from God: 
partaking in whom, the reasonable and intellectual mind can 
be made wise in truth. At the end of his dialogue Hortensius^ we 
find Cicero commending this same wisdom. “If,” he says, “we 
give day and night to such meditations, if we sharpen our 
understanding which is the mind’s eye, and take good heed that 
it grow not dull — if, that is to say, we live the life of philosophy, 
then we may have good hope: diat if our power of feeling and 
thought is mortal and transient, it will be pleasant for us to pass 
away when the duties of our human life are done, nor will our 
extinction be an offence to us but rather a repose from living; 
and if, on the other hand, as the greatest and most famous of 
ancient philosophers have believed, our souls are eternal and 
divine, then we may fairly suppose that the more constant a 
soul has been in following its own course, that is, in the pursuit 
of reason and the ardour of enquiry, and the less it has mingled 
and involved itself in the faults and errors of man, by so much 
the easier will be its ascent and return to its heavenly country.” 
After which he adds this final sentence in which he resumes and 
concludes his discussion: “Therefore, to end this long discourse, 
if It is our will either to pass quietly into nothingness after these 
pursuits have occupied our life, or to travel forthwith from our 
present home to another that will be far better, to these studies 
we ought to give all our energy and attention.” 

It is a wonder to me that so powerful a mind should offer to 
men who live the life of philosophy, the hfe which gives blessed- 
ness in the contemplation of truth, a “pleasant passing away” 
when the duties of their human life are done, if our power of 
feeling and thought is mortal and transient; as though this 
would be the death and destruction of something which we 
loved so little, or even hated so fiercely, that its passing away 
would be “pleasant” to us. He had learnt that, not from the 
philosophers to whom he gives such high praise: his opinion 
savoured rather of the New Academy, which had persuaded him 
to scepticism even upon the most manifest of truths. The tradi- 
tion which came to him from those philosophers who on his own 

80 John 17*3. 



THE TRINITY 


125 

admission were the greatest and most famous, was that souls are 
eternal. For eternal souls, indeed, the exhortation is appropriate 
that they be found, when the end of this life comes upon them, 
“following their own course, that is, in the pursuit of reason and 
the ardour of enquiry,” and that Aey should avoid the “min- 
gling and involvement of themselves in the faults and errors of 
men,” in order that their return to God may be the easier. But 
the course that is set in the love of truth and enquiry after it, is 
not enough for men unhappy as all must be whose mortality is 
supported by reason alone, without the faith of the Mediator. 
That is what I have done my best to show in earlier Books of 
this treatise, especially the fourth and thirteenth. 



Book XV 


Review and Re-valuation: Image and Original 
ARGUMENT 

[We have been seeking for an image of the Trinity in the highest 
of created things; and this search for God, even though it must 
be endless, is justified by Scripture (§§ 1-3). 

Summary of the discussion in Books I~XIV (§§ 4, 5). 

Our conception of the divine being is built up of a number of 
attributes which we derive from our rational judgments of 
value (§6). All these terms denote the one divine substance 
which belongs equally to the three Persons of the Trinity; but 
we may reduce them to the three attributes of eternity, wisdom, 
and blessedness (§§ 7, 8). Even these three might be regarded 
as all implied in one, viz. wisdom (§ 9). By reference to the 
image of God traced in his gift of wisdom to the mind, we may 
say that the divine wisdom is Trinity, in virtue of its own self- 
knowledge and self-love (§ 10). 

Yet the analogy remains imperfect: {d) in that the human 
^^trinity of wisdom” is in man, as a part of his nature, whereas 
the divine Trinity is itself constitutive of the divine nature 
(§ 1 1); {b) in that the human faculties of memory, understand- 
ing, and will are not interchangeable, whereas in God we can- 
not confine memory to the Father, understanding to the Son, 
and love or will to the Spirit (§ 12). Our temporal modes of 
existence and thought make it impossible for us to comprehend 
a wisdom which is both memory and fore-knowledge (§ 13). 
We see ‘^'in a glass, darkly” (§§ 14--16). 

None the less, we can gain a certain understanding of the 
second Person’s relation to the first, by considering the “inward 
speech” or unspoken word which takes place in our act of think- 
ing (§§ 17-19) — the thought prior to all language, of which lan- 
guage is no more than a sign for the purpose of communication, 

126 



THE TRINITY 


127 

like the flesh assumed by the divine Word. This human “word” 
is the source of all human activity, even as the divine Word is 
that through which all things were made (§ 20). But in many 
respects our human image of the divine Word is inadequate. 
(a) The knowledge which ^ves it form is scanty and uncertain. 
We have indeed some ultimate certainties, but they are few 
(§ 21). (i) God’s knowledge is not acquired or conditioned from 
without: it precedes all his creative activity and is inseparable 
from his being (§ 22). (^) The correspondence of the divine 
Word to the divine knowledge is perfect (§ 23). (d) The human 
“word” is not always born of true knowledge (§ 24), and even a 
true “word” is not always present and actual, because it is 
not always the object of thought: at best it is “formable,” not 
formed once and for aU (§§ 25, 26). 

The Holy Spirit, as proceeding from both Father and Son, 
may be regarded as the mutual charity of the first and second 
Persons (§27). But Scripture says that God is charity; and we 
have already seen the objection to identifying any Person of the 
Trinity with any one of the members of our mental triads (§ 28) : 
only the terms “word,” “gift,” and “source” of generation or 
procession can rightly be assigned to the several Persons ex- 
clusively. Yet if the Word is more especially or appropriately 
named the wisdom of God, there may be a similar fitness in 
naming the Spirit charity (§§ 29, 30); and this is confirmed by 
the language of I John 4 (§31). Charity is indeed the supreme 
gift (§ 32), and Scripture is clear that the Holy Spirit is the gift of 
God (§§ 33-36). The Holy Spirit nghtly may receive the name of 
charity, as proceeding from Father and Son and constituting the 
“communion” of both — ^for both are Spirit (§ 37). Charity, how- 
ever, remains a term of the essence or substance of Godhead, 
and the heretical attempt to distinguish the divine will from the 
divine nature, in the interest of Arianism, must be rejected (§ 38) . 

Memory, understanding, and will, offer us an image of the 
Trinity, in so far as they are mutually inherent and inseparable 
activities (§§ 39-41). But the analogy is defective, in that the 
real actor is the human person or subject, possessed of these 
three powers or faculties, whereas the Trinity is not in one God, 
but is itself the one God, though constituting not one “Person” 
but three (§§ 42, 43). All discussion of the image in the human 
mind has value only as it is inspired by the faith that it is an 
image and no more, that it is sin which blurs the image and 
darkens our vision, and that only in the life to come shall we see 
face to face (§ 44). 



128 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

For our present understanding it is hard to perceive the dif- 
ference between generation of the Son and procession of the 
Spirit. We cannot speak of either in temporal terms (§ 45). — 
Christ gave the Spirit as God, received it as man (§46). But the 
procession of the Spirit is an eternal fact no less than the divine 
generation of the Son, to which there can be no parallel in our 
mental life: it is a fact in the being of the Father which with all 
else he imparts to the Son (§§ 47, 48). On this matter, the un- 
believer must accept the teaching of Scripture before he can 
hope for any measure of understanding (§ 49). — We can but 
see, in our image of the Trinity, that thought or word is 
‘‘begotten’’ of remembered knowledge, while will bears a dif- 
ferent relation to both (§ 50). 

Let us end our work not with argument but with prayer(§ 51).] 
THE TEXT 

I (i). Our design of preparing the reader, by the study of the 
things that are made, for the knowledge of their maker, has 
brought us to the image of God which man presents, in virtue of 
that which sets him above all other animals: namely, reason or 
intelligence, with any other characteristic of the reasonable or 
intellectual soul that is properly to be assigned to what we call 
mens or animus (mind).i The word animus is used by some Latin 
writers as a technical term to distinguish the higher element in 
man, which is lacking in the beast, from the amma or soul which 
is present in beast as well as man. If we look for a being above 
this, and look for an existing reality, it must be God, the being 
not created but Creator. And whether this being is a Trinity is 
a question not only to be decided for faith by the authority of 
Holy Scripture; but one to which we ought, if we can, to give 
some rational answer, satisfactory to the understanding. My 
reason for saying “if we can,” will emerge in the course of our 
actual discussion of the question. 

2 (ii). The God whom we seek will, I doubt not, give us the 
help we need, that our labour be not fruitless. Then shall we 
understand what is written in the Psalm: “Let the heart of them 
rejoice that seek the Lord: seek the Lord and be strengthened; 
seek his face alway.” 2 One might suppose that what is always 
sought is never found; and that the heart of them that seek must 
rather grieve than rejoice, if they cannot find what they seek. 

1 See Introduction, fin, Augustine here makes it clear that “reason” is 

not the only activity of mens. 2 Ps 105 3 f. 



THE TRINITY 


129 

It is not said, ‘'Let the heart of them that find rejoice/’ but “of 
them that seek the Lord.” Yet that the Lord God can be found 
through seeking, we are assured by the word of the prophet 
Isaiah: “Seek the Lord, and call upon him that ye may find 
him presently; and when he draweth near to you, let the un- 
godly leave his ways and the wicked man his thoughts.” ^ if 
then, he can be found when he is sought, why are we bidden 
“seek his face alway”? Perhaps because even when he is found 
he must be sought. Enquiry concerning the incomprehensible 
is justified, and the enquirer has found something, if he has suc- 
ceeded in finding how far what he sought passes comprehension. 
Comprehending the incomprehensibihty of what he seeks, yet 
he will go on seeking, because he cannot slacken his pursuit so 
long as progress is made in the actual enquiry into things incom- 
prehensible: so long as he is continually bettered by the search 
after so great a good — ^both sought that it may be found, and 
found that it may be sought: stiU sought that the finding may be 
sweeter, still found that the seeking may be more eager. So we 
may interpret the words put into Wisdom’s mouth in the book 
Ecclesiasticus: “They that eat me shall still hunger, and they 
that drink me shall still thirst.” ^ They eat and drink, because 
they find: because they hunger and thirst, they still seek. Faith 
seeks, understanding finds: wherefore the prophet says: “Unless 
ye believe, ye shall not understand.” ^ And again understanding 
yet seeks him whom it finds: for “God hath looked upon the 
sons of men,” we sing in the Psalm, “to see if there be one that 
is understanding, or a seeker after God.” ^ Man is called to be 
understanding, to the end that he may seek after God. 

3. Thus, the care with which we have dwelt on that which 
God has made will have been justified by its purpose, that 
thereby we might come to know the maker. “For the invisible 
things of him from the creation of the world, being understood 
through the things which are made, are clearly seen.” ^ Hence 
the reproof in the Book of Wisdom, of those who “could not out 
of the good things that are seen know him that is; neither by 
considering the works did they acknowledge the artificer, but 
deemed either fire or wind or the swift air or the circhng of the 

3 Isa. 55 : 6 f. 4 Ecclesiasticus 24: 2 1 . 

5 Isa. 7:9. In this text, so important for Augustine’s doctrme of “under- 

standing” as the “reward” of faith, he retains the older Latin version 

from the LXX: the Vulgate represents the Hebrew with non perman- 

ebttis, “ye shall not endure.” 

6 Ps. 14.2. 


7 Rom. 1 . 20 



130 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

stars or the violence of waters or the luminaries of heaven to be 
the gods which govern the world: with whose beauty if they 
were so delighted as to account them gods, let them know how 
much better the ruler of them is. For the first author of beauty 
hath created them. Or if they marvelled at their strength and 
working, let them understand from these things how much 
mightier is he that ordered them; for by the greatness of the 
beauty and the creation, the creator of them might recognizably 
have been discerned.” ^ I quote these verses from the Book of 
Wisdom, that in my search for pointers to that supreme Trinity 
which we seek when we seek for God, I may not seem to any of 
the faithful to have wasted my labour in beginning with the 
creature, and so moving by stages through a number of special 
trinities up to the mind of man.^ 

4 (iii). The necessities of discourse and argument have ob- 
liged us to deal in the course of fourteen Books with many mat- 
ters which we can hardly embrace in a single view, so as to 
apply them without hesitation to the point we desire to grasp. 
I shall therefore do my best, God helping, to summarize without 
discussion the results of our discussions in each Book, and so to 
make accessible at a glance, not the grounds of our conclusions 
but the conclusions themselves. In this way our later results will 
not be so far separated from the earlier that examination of the 
later will drive the earlier from our minds; or if it does, we shall 
be able readily to look back and recollect what was forgotten. 

5, Book I showed the testimony of Holy Scripture to the 
unity and equality of the supreme Trinity. 

Books II, III, and IV dealt with the same theme; but the 
detailed enquiry into the missions of the Son and of the Holy 
Spirit occupies the three Books. It was shown that the Person 
sent is not less than the Sender because of that relationship: 
the Trinity, which is equal throughout, working inseparably 
without any difference in the changelessness, invisibility and 
omnipresence of its being. 

Book V met the argument that the substance of the Father 
and of the Son is not the same, on the ground that nothing can 
be predicated of God which does not denote substance, and 
that therefore begetting and being begotten, or the begotten 
and the unbegotten, being different predicates must denote 
different substances. It was shown that not all that is predicated 

8 Wisdom 13*1 ff. 

^ This hardly describes the procedure of the De Tnmtate itself, in which 

all the “trinities” studied have been psychological 



THE TRINITY 


131 

of God denotes substance, as do the predicates "good"’ and 
'‘great” and any others denoting what he is in himself; but that 
there are also predicates of relation, denoting not what he is in 
himself but what he is in relation to something which is not 
himself; as he is called Father in relation to the Son, or Lord in 
relation to the creature that is subject to him. If he is given a 
relative predicate such as implies temporal process, as for ex- 
ample “Lord, thou hast become our refuge,” 10 that does not 
denote a happening to him involving change: he himself in his 
nature or essence remains altogether changeless. 

Book VI discussed the meaning of the apostolic titles of 
Christ, “the power of God and the wisdom of God,” postponing 
for further consideration the question whether he of whom 
Christ is begotten is not wisdom himself but only the Father of 
his own wisdom, or whether wisdom has begotten wisdom. But 
however that should be answered, this Book also served to make 
clear the equality of the Trinity, and that God is not treble — 
God three times over, but Trinity: Father and Son do not make 
up a double as against the singleness of the Holy Spirit, and the 
Three are not anything “more” than any one of them. The 
Book ended with a discussion of the meamng of Bishop Hilary’s 
phrase: “Eternity in the Father, form in the image, use in the 
gift.” 

Book VII dealt with the question adjourned, to the effect that 
God as begetter of the Son is not only Father of his own power 
and wisdom, but also power and wisdom in himself; the same 
holding of the Holy Spirit. Yet there are not three powers or 
wisdoms but one power and one wisdom, as there is one God 
and one essence. Then it was asked in what sense we speak of 
one essence and three Persons, or in the Greek manner of one 
essence and three substances. The terms were found to meet 
the need of a form of speech that would provide a single answer 
to the question ^^What are the three, whom we truly confess as 
three?” — namely. Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. 

Book VIII applied the method of reasoning to make it clear 
to the understanding that in true substance not only is the 
Father no “greater” than the Son, but neither are both together 
a “greater” thing than the Holy Spirit alone; nor are any two 
in the Trinity a “greater” thing than one, nor all three together 

10 Ps 90; I, 

Hilary, De Tnn.^ II, 34. Augustine wrongly supposes that Hilary’s term 
ustiSy which referred to the work of the spirit in sanctification, was meant 
to indicate the “embrace” or mutual enjoyment of Father and Son. 



132 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

^'greater’* than each severally. Then I endeavoured to make 
intelligible, so far as that may be, the incorporeal and change- 
less nature of God: using the notions of the Truth which is 
understood and seen, the supreme Good from which all good 
proceeds, the righteousness for which a righteous soul is loved 
by one not yet righteous, and finally the charity which in Holy 
Scripture is called God, and in which an actual Trinity begins 
to show itself to the understanding, in the form of lover, the 
beloved, and love. 

Book IX carried the argument to that image of God which is 
presented by man in his mental nature. There we find a kind of 
trimty, in the mind, the knowledge whereby it knows itself, and 
the love whereby it loves itself and its knowledge; and these 
three are shown to be equal to one another and of one essence. 

Book X gave a more thorough and precise investigation to 
the same subject, which led to the discovery in the mind of a 
trinity more manifest, in the form of memory, understanding 
and will. But it was also found that the mind can never have 
been without the memory, understanding, and love of itself, 
although it does not always think of itself; and when it does, the 
same act of thought does not cause it to distinguish itself from 
what is corporeal. We therefore postponed our consideration of 
the Trinity of which this is an image, in order to discover a 
trinity in the actual process of bodily perception, and thereby 
to offer the reader a less obscure field in which to exercise his 
power of penetration. 

Book XI accordingly took the visual sense as an example, 
findings in which could be recognized as valid for the other four 
senses. Thus was disclosed a trinity of the outward man, first in 
external vision, composed of the physical object seen, the form 
impressed from it upon the view of the beholder, and the act of 
voluntary attention which links the two. But the members of 
this triad are plainly neither equal to one another nor of one 
substance; and we proceeded to the discovery of another trimty 
in the mind itself, imported from the field of outward sense, in 
which the same three appeared as consubstantial: the imaging 
of the object as retained in the memory, the actualizing of the 
form derived from it when the thinker’s view is directed thither, 
and the act of voluntary attention which unites them. Even this 
trinity was recognized as belonging to the outward man, inas- 
much as it results from the perception of external objects. 

Book XII laid down the distinction between wisdom and 
knowledge, and looked first in the inferior realm of knowledge in 



THE TRINITY 


133 

the strict sense of the word, for a special kind of trinity. This 
belongs indeed to the inward man, but cannot yet be regarded 
as the image of God, or so entided. 

Book XIII developed this enquiry by way of an exposition of 
Chnstian faith. 

Book XIV proceeded to a discourse on man’s true wisdom — 
the wisdom, distinct from knowledge, conferred by God’s gift 
through a partaking in God himself; and this led to the emerg- 
ence of a trinity in the image of God constituted by man in his 
mental nature, which is renewed in the knowledge of God after 
the image of him who created man in his image, 12 and in that 
renewal acquires the wisdom in which there is a contemplation 
of things eternal. 

6 (iv). And now the time has come for us to direct our 
search for the Trinity, which is God, upon that eternal world, 
bodiless and changeless, in whose perfect contemplation we have 
the promise of a blessed life — the life that must needs be eternal. 
The being of God is not only asserted by the authority of divine 
Scripture. The universe of nature which environs us and to 
which we ourselves belong, proclaims its dependence on a 
supremely good establishes He has given us a mind and a 
natural reason, whereby we discern the relative values of 
things: preferring the living to what is without life, the sentient 
to what is without feeling, the understanding to what is without 
intelligence; immortal to mortal, potent to impotent, righteous 
to unrighteous, beautiful to ugly, good to evil, incorruptible to 
corruptible, immutable to mutable, invisible to visible, incor- 
poreal to corporeal, blessed to miserable. And inasmuch as we do 
not hesitate to set a higher value on the Creator than on things 
created, we are obliged to allow that he must have life at its 
highest, and awareness and understanding of aU things; that he 
cannot suffer death, corruption, or change, that he is no body, 
but a Spirit most potent, righteous, beautiful, good, and blessed. 

7 (v). But all these attributes, and any others that human 
modes of expression may worthily assign to God, belong both 
to the whole Trinity which is the one God and to the several 
Persons in that same Trinity. Neither of the one God, the 
Trinity itself, nor of Father or Son or Holy Spirit, may any man 
presume to speak as without life, sentience or understanding; 
or to suggest that any of them, in that being in respect of which 
they are accounted equal to one another, is either mortal or 
corruptible or changeable or corporeal, or to deny to any of 

12 Col 3*10, Gen. 1.27. 



134 AUGUSTINE; LATER WORKS 

them the fullest power, righteousness, beauty, goodness, and 
blessedness. If then these and all similar terms are to be pre- 
dicated both of the Trinity itself and of the several Persons 
therein, where or how can they display the nature of Trinity? 

Let us begin by reducing their indefinite number to some- 
thing smaller. What we call “life’’ in God is his very essence and 
nature: the life by which God lives is what he is to himself. But 
that life is not the hfe of a tree, without understanding or 
sentience; nor the life of a beast, which possesses sentience in its 
five divisions, but no understanding. The life that is God has 
consciousness and understanding of all things; and its conscious- 
ness is mental not bodily, since God is spirit, It is not through 
a body that God is conscious, like the embodied animal; for he 
is not composed of soul and body. His uncompounded nature is 
conscious as it understands, and understands as it is conscious: 
his understanding is the same as his consciousness. Nor is the 
life of God such as ever to cease or ever to begin, for it is im- 
mortal. Rightly is it said of him that he “alone hath immortal- 
ity” 14; for true immortality belongs only to him in whose nature 
there is no possibihty of change. And the changelessness of God 
is the effect of his true eternity, without beginning, without end; 
from which follows his incorruptibility. So it is one and the 
same thing to call God eternal or immortal or incorruptible or 
changeless, and it is the same thing to call him living and under- 
standing, which implies wisdom. He has not acquired a wisdom 
to make him wise, but is himself wisdom. And this is his life, 
and at the same time the strength or power, and the beauty, 
for which he is called potent and beautiful. Nothing could have 
more power and beauty than the wisdom which “reacheth 
mightily from one end to the other, and sweetly ordereth all 
things.” 15 Again, goodness and righteousness cannot lie apart 
from one another in God’s nature, as they do in his works: there 
are not two different qualities of God, one goodness, and an- 
other righteousness. His righteousness is his goodness, and his 
goodness is his blessedness. As for the term incorporeal, it is 
used of God simply in the sense that for our faith or under- 
standing he is spirit and not body. 

8. If then we call God eternal, immortal, incorruptible, 
changeless, living, wise, potent, beautiful, righteous, good, 
blessed, spirit — the last of these terms may be thought to denote 
substance only, and all the rest qualities of that substance. But 

13 John 4:24. 14 I Tim. 6; 16. is Wisdom 8* i. 



THE TRINITY 


^35 

this distinction does not exist in the ineffable and uncom- 
pounded nature of God. Terms which appear to denote quahty 
must here be taken as denoting substance or essence. We may 
never say that God is spint in substance, and good in quality: 
he is both in substance. The same applies to all the terms we 
have applied to him: as we have argued at length in previous 
Books. 1 <5 

The first four of these terms as above enumerated in order 
were eternal, immortal, incorruptible, changeless. Since these 
four denote one thing, as I have explained, let us select some 
one of them in order to concentrate our thought: say the one 
that comes first, ‘'eternal.” Let us do the same with the second 
four, living, wise, potent, beautiful. Here, we note that life of a 
sort belongs to the beast who is without wisdom; that wisdom 
and power may in a man be so contrasted with one another that 
Scripture can say: “Better is the wise than the strong” and 
that we normally use the word beautiful of bodily things. Our 
best choice among these four will therefore be “wise”: although 
in God there is no inequality between the four, since the four 
words stand for one thing. In the case of the last group of four 
terms, it is true that righteousness in God is identical with good- 
ness and blessedness, and “spirit” is identical with all three. 
But in men there can be an unblessed spirit, there can be one 
righteous and good who is not yet blessed; whereas none can be 
blessed who is not a spirit both righteous and good. Let us then 
choose the term which even in men must carry the three others 
with it, namely “blessed.” 

9 (vi). Can we then say that these three terms, “eternal,” 
“wise,” “blessed,” constitute the Trinity which we call God? 
We have reduced our terms from twelve to three; but possibly 
we might make a further reduction of these three to some one of 
them. If wisdom and power, or life and wisdom, may be one 
and the same thing in the nature of God, why should not this 
hold of etermty and wisdom, or of blessedness and wisdom? 
Then, just as in our reduction of the larger to the smaller num- 
ber it made no difference whether we used the twelve terms or 
the three, so it will make no difference whether we use the 
three, or the single one to which we have suggested that the two 
others might similarly be reduced. And then we shall hardly 
find a line of argument, a force or power of understanding, a 
vigour of reasoning or a penetration of thought, sufficient to 


The reference is especially to Bks. V and VI. Wisdom 612 (Vulgate). 



136 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

show without regard to all the rest how the Trinity may be 
found in the application to God of this single term — wisdom. 
God does not learn wisdom from any other source as we do 
from him: he is his own wisdom, since, in him for whom to be is 
to be wise, his wisdom and his essence are not distinguishable 
things. It is true that in Holy Scripture Christ is called the power 
of God and the wisdom of God.^s g^t we discussed in our 
seventh Book the interpretation of this text so as to avoid imply- 
ing that the Son makes the Father wise; and our conclusion was 
that the Son is Wisdom from Wisdom, as he is Light from Light, 
God from God. And we were forced to extend the same argu- 
ment to the Holy Spirit, admitting that he also is himself wis- 
dom — all together constituting one wisdom, as they do one God 
and one essence. Of this wisdom, then, which is God, how shall 
we understand that it is Trinity? I do not say, How shall we 
believe^ For of that there should be no question among the 
faithful. But if there is any way by which understanding may 
give us a vision of what we believe, what can that way be? 

10. We may recall that it was in the eighth Book that the 
manifestation of the Trinity to our understanding began. There 
we essayed to lift up, so far as might be, the effort of our mind to 
the understanding of that most excellent and changeless being 
which is other than our mind. In contemplation we were aware 
of it as not far from us and yet above us — not spatially but by 
its own most reverend and wonderful excellence, so that we 
found it present in us in virtue of its own pervading light. But 
so far we had no glimpse of the Trinity, because we could not in 
that dazzling brightness direct our mind’s eye steadily to look 
for it.i^ All that we could with some clearness distinguish was 
that it was no measurable mass in which the quantity of two or 
three must be believed greater than that of the two. Only when 
we came to consider charity, which in Holy Scripture is called 
God, the light began to break upon a Trinity, consisting in 
lover, the beloved, and love. But from that ineffable light our 
gaze flinched away, we had to confess that our mind in its weak- 
ness was not yet strong enough to be conformed to it. And there-^ 
fore, in order to recruit our labouring efforts, we paused in the 
pursuit of our undertaking and turned back to the more familiar 
consideration of that same mind of ours, in which man has been 
made after the image of God; and from the ninth to the four- 
teenth Book we occupied ourselves with our own creaturely 


8 I Cor. 1-24. 


19 Bk VIII, 3 (li). 



THE TRINITY 


nature^ in order that we might be able to apprehend and per- 
ceive the invisible things of God through the things that are 
made. 20 

And now the time has come, when after this exercise of our 
understanding in a lower sphere for so long as need required 
(and maybe for longer), we would lift ourselves up to perceive 
the supreme Trinity which is God. Yet our strength fails us. 
Many trinities we can see most surely. There are those which 
are produced by the action of bodily objects on the outward 
senses, and those which occur when the sense perception be- 
comes matter of thought. There are trinities when things arising 
in the mind apart from the bodily senses are distinguished by 
clear reasoning and comprehended in knowledge, such as our 
faith, and those virtues which are ways of living. There are 
trinities when the mind itself, by which w^e know all that we 
truthfully claim to know, is known to itself or thinks of itself, 
or when it perceives an eternal and unchanging object other 
than itself. In all these processes we see tnnities with assurance, 
since they occur or exist in us as we remember, regard, and will. 
But can we perceive therein by an act of understanding a 
Speaker and his Word, the Father and the Son, and proceeding 
thence the Charity common to both which is the Holy Spirit? It 
may be urged that while trinities belonging to the sphere of 
sense or mind are for us objects of sight rather than belief, the 
fact that God is Trinity must be beheved rather than seen. If 
that be so, it must follow, either that the invisible things of him 
are nowhere apprehended and perceived by us through the 
things that are made; or, that in none of them which we perceive 
can we perceive the Trinity — that there is something in that 
sphere which we may perceive, but something also which we 
are obliged to beheve though unperceived. Yet the eighth Book 
showed that we do perceive a changeless good, other than our- 
selves; and the same was indicated in the fourteenth Book when 
we spoke of the wisdom which comes to man from God. Why 
then can we not recognize there the Trinity? It is impossible to 
maintain that this wisdom which is called God neither under- 
stands nor loves itself; and it is patent that where there is no 
knowledge there cannot possibly be wisdom. That the wisdom 
which is God knows or loves other things but neither knows nor 
loves itself, cannot be asserted or believed without foolishness 
and impiety; and if so, here surely is Trinity: wisdom, its know- 
ledge of itself, and its love of itself. That was how we discovered 

20 Rom 1:20. 



138 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

a trinity in man: the mind, the knowledge whereby it knows 
itself, and the love whereby it loves itself. 

II (vii). But these three are in man, without by themselves 
constituting man; for if we follow the definition of the ancients, 
man is a rational and mortal animal. The three things named 
are then man’s highest part, but not by themselves man. More- 
over, the one person which is the individual man possesses those 
three in his mind. Even if we adopt a different definition of man, 
to the effect that he is a rational substance composed of soul 
and body, it remains indubitable that man possesses a soul 
which is not body and a body which is not soul. And then our 
triad is not equivalent to man but belongs to man or is in man. 
If we set aside the body and think of the soul alone, we find 
that the mind is a part of it, as it might be its head or eye or 
face — though we may not think of the soul’s parts as bodies. 
Thus it is not the soul but the highest thing in it which we call 
the mind. But we cannot say that the Trinity is in God in this 
manner — a part of God but not itself God. The individual man, 
who is called the image of God not in respect of all that belongs 
to his nature but in respect of his mind alone, is a personal 
unity, having the image of the Trinity in his mind. But the 
Trinity of whom he is image is as a whole nothing but God, is as 
a whole nothing but Trinity. Nothing belongs to God’s nature 
that does not belong to this TTrimty. The three Persons are of one 
essence, not like the individual man one person. 

la. In another respect also there is a wide difference to be 
noted. In man, whether we speak of mind, its knowledge and its 
love, or of memory, understanding, and will, nothing in the 
mind is remembered but through memory, or understood but 
through understanding, or loved but through will. In the divine 
Trinity, reverence forbids us to say that the Father understands 
neither himself nor his Son nor the Holy Spirit, save through 
the Son, nor loves save through the Holy Spirit; or that through 
himself he does no more than remember either himself or the 
Son or the Holy Spirit. Or similarly, that the Son remembers 
himself and the Father only through the Father, and loves only 
through the Holy Spirit; while through himself he can only 
understand both Father and himself and Holy Spirit. Or in the 
same way that it is through the Father that the Holy Spirit 
remembers Father, Son, and himself, through the Son that he 
understands Father, Son, and himself, while through himself 
he can only love himself, the Father and the Son. This would 
amount to saying that the Father is memory of himself, Son, 



THE TRINITY 


139 

and Holy Spirit, the Son is understanding of himself, Father, and 
Holy Spirit, the Holy Spirit is charity to himself, Father 
and Son. But to hold or express such opinions concerning the 
divine Trinity would be extreme presumption. If only the Son 
understands for himself and Father and Holy Spirit, we are 
back in the irrational notion that the Father is wise not of him- 
self but by the Son: that wisdom has not begotten wisdom, but 
the Father is called wise in virtue of the wisdom he has begotten. 
For where understanding is lacking, there can be no wisdom: 
if the Father understands not for himself but the Son for the 
Father, clearly the Son makes the Father wise. And if for God 
to be is to be wise, and his essence is his wisdom, it will not be 
the Son who has his essence from the Father (as he truly does), 
but the Father who has his essence from the Son — ^which is 
entirely irrational and fake. We may be satisfied with our dis- 
cussion, refutation and rejection of this irrationality in the 
seventh Book. God the Father is wise by that same wisdom 
which is his own being; and the Son is the wisdom of the Father, 
as being derived from the wisdom which is identical with the 
Father of whom he is begotten. And accordingly the Father is 
understanding by the same understanding which is his own 
being; for wisdom implies understanding; and the Son is the 
understanding of the Father, as begotten of the understanding 
which is the Father’s being. The same may properly be said of 
memory. He who remembers nothing, or does not remember 
himself, cannot be wise. Since therefore the Father is wisdom, 
and the Son is wisdom, the Son will remember himself no less 
than the Father remembers himself; and just as the Father 
remembers himself and the Son with a memory that is his own 
and not the Son’s, the Son will remember himself and the 
Father with a memory that is not the Father’s but his own. 
Finally, we cannot predicate wisdom where there is no love; 
from which it follows that the Father is his own love, no less 
than his own understanding and his own memory. We seem 
forced to the conclusion that our triad of memory, under- 
standing and love or will, in that supreme and changeless 
essence that is God, are not to be identified with Father, Son 
and Holy Spirit, but with the Father by himself. And because 
the Son is wisdom begotten of wisdom, it is equally true that he 
understands for himself and not the Father or the Holy Spirit 
for him, and that neither does the Father remember nor the 
Holy Spirit love for him, but he does both for himself; for he 
is his own memory, his own understanding, his own love, though 



AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


140 

that pioperty comes to him from the Father of whom he is be- 
gotten. Again, since the Holy Spirit is wisdom proceeding from 
wisdom, it is not true that the memory which belongs to him is 
the Father, the understanding the Son, and the love himself; 
for he would not be wisdom if another remembered for him, 
and another understood for him, while for himself he did no 
more than love. All three belong to him, and in such a manner 
that he ts all three; but this property comes to him from that 
Source from which he proceeds. 

13. No man can comprehend the wisdom by which God 
knows all things, a wisdom wherein that which we call past does 
not pass, and that which we call future is not awaited as though 
not yet available, but both past and future are all together pre- 
sent with what is present: a wisdom wherein there is no thinlang 
on particular things severally, or movement of thought from 
one thing to another, but the whole universe is presented 
simultaneously in one single view. No man, I say, can compre- 
hend such a wisdom, which is both foresight and knowledge; 
inasmuch as even our own wisdom passes our comprehension. 
We can perceive, in various ways, what is present to our senses 
or our understanding: what is absent but was once present, we 
know by memory if we have not forgotten it. We conjecture, 
not the past from the future, but the future from the past, 
though we cannot have certain knowledge of it. To some of our 
thoughts we look forward with a degree of clearness and assur- 
ance as about to occur in the immediate future; but when we do 
so with the maximum of security, we do it by an act of memory, 
which is evidently concerned not with what is going to happen 
but with what is past. This is open to experience in the case of 
speeches or songs which we render from memory in a certain 
order: did we not foresee in thought what comes next, we could 
not speak it. But what enables us to foresee is not pre-vision but 
memory. Until the whole speech or song is ended, there is 
nothing in its recitation that was not foreseen and looked for- 
ward to. Yet in the process our singing and speaking is not 
ascribed to pre-vision but to memory; and we remark, in those 
who display exceptional powers of such extended recitation, a 
strength not of foresight but of memory. We know, without 
any doubt, that such processes are carried on in our mind, or 
by our mind; but the more closely we try to observe the manner 
of the process, the more surely does description fail us and effort 
exhaust itself in the attempt to reach lucidity of understanding, 
if not of language. Can we expect then that our feeble minds will 



THE TRINITY 


I4I 

be able to comprehend the identity of God’s pro\idence with 
his memory and understanding — the proxidence of God who 
does not regard each thing severally in discursive thought, but 
embraces all that he knows in one eternal, changeless and in- 
effable vision? In the strait of such perplexity we may xvell cry 
out to the living God: ^Trom myself thy knowledge has become 
wonderful: its strength is shown, and I shall not be able to reach 
it.” For from myself I understand how man^ellous and incom- 
prehensible is thy knowledge whereby thou hast made me; 
and yet in my meditation the fire is kindled, so that I seek thy 

face evermore. 22 

14 (viii). I know that wisdom is an incorporeal substance, 
a light in which are seen things not seen by the eye of flesh. And 
yet a man of such spiritual greatness as Paul says that “we see 
now through a mirror, in an enigma; but then face to face.” ^3 
If we ask of what manner or of what nature is this mirror, we 
think immediately of the fact that in a mirror what is seen is no 
more than an image. What we have tried to do is to gain 
through this image which is ourselves some vision, as through a 
mirror, of him who made us. We find the same sense in other 
words of the apostle’s: “We with unveiled face beholding in a 
mirror the glory of the Lord, are transformed into the same 
image from glory unto glory, as by the Spirit of the Lord.” 24 
(The word speculantes means “seeing in a mirror,” not “observ- 
ing from a watch-tower”: as is clear in the original Greek, in 
which the speculum that reflects an image is described by a quite 
different-sounding word from the specula or height from the top 
of which we look out at distant objects, and it is plain enough 
that speculantes^ in the phrase gloriam Domini speculantes^ is de- 
rived from speculum and not specula.^^) The words “transformed 
into the same image” refer to the image of God — the “same,” 
that is, that very image which we behold m the mirror. For this 
same image is also the glory of God, as Paul says elsewhere: “the 
man ought not to veil his head, since he is the image and glory 
of God” 2 6 a text which we discussed in the twelfth Book. “We 
are transformed” — that is, we are changed from one form into 
another, from a form of obscurity into a form of clear light. 

21 Ps. 139.6. 22 Ps 39:3, 105: 4. 

23 I Cor. 13: 12. 24 II Cor. 3. 18. 

25 Augustine is probably right in agreeing here with A,V, and R.V. Mg. 

against R V. text ‘‘reflecting ” For a discussion of the text, cf. Kirk, 

The Vision of Gody pp. 102 fF. 

2<s I Cor. 1 1.7. 



142 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

Even in obscurity, the form is God’s image; and if his image, 
then assuredly his glory, wherein we were created as men, ex- 
celling all other animals. For of human nature itself it is said 
that ‘‘a man ought not to veil his head, since he is the image and 
glory of God.” And it is this nature, the most excellent of things 
created, which when justified by its Creator from its ungod- 
liness is brought over from a form that is deformed into a form 
of perfect beauty. For even in its very ungodliness, the more 
severe our condemnation of its fault, the more unhesitating 
must be our appreciation of its natural dignity. Hence fhe 
addition of the words, “from glory into glory”: from the glory 
of creation into the glory of justification. Another interpretation 
of these words is indeed possible: they may mean, from the 
glory of faith into the glory of sight: from that glory in which we 
are the sons of God into that glory in which we shall be like 
him, for we shall see him as he is. Finally, the words “as from 
the Spirit of the Lord” indicate that the blessing of a transforma- 
tion so devoutly to be prayed for is granted to us by the grace 
of God. 

15 (ix). These remarks have been suggested by the 
apostle’s saying, that we see “now through a glass.” The words 
which follow, “in an enigma,” demand for their understanding 
some acquaintance with writers who have treated of the modes 
of expression called by the Greeks “tropes.” We ourselves use 
this Greek word on occasion in place of the Latin “modes,” just 
as we commonly speak of schemata rather than Jigurae. The 
names of the several modes or tropes are very dilRcult to render 
in Latin appropriately to each particular case without recourse 
to very unfamiliar terms. Hence certain of our translators, to 
avoid using the Greek word for the apostle’s phrase, “which 
things are in an allegory,” 27 have employed the circumlocu- 
tion: “which stand as signifying one thing by another.” Of this 
particular “trope,” the allegory, there are a number of kinds, 
among which is the so-called “enigma.” The definition of the 
general term must of course cover all the kinds or species which 
It includes: thus, as every horse is an animal but not every 
animal a horse, so every enigma is an allegory, but not every 
allegory an enigma. The allegory is simply a trope in which one 
term is used to mean another, as for example in this passage 
from the Epistle to the Thessalonians. “Therefore let us not 
slumber, as others do; but let us watch and be sober. For they 
that sleep, sleep in the night, and they that are drunken, are 

27 Gal 4 24. 



THE TRINITY 


143 

drunken in the night. But let us, who are of the day, be sober.’’ 
This allegory is not an enigma; for the meaning lies to hand 
for all but the slowest wits. The enigma may be shortly des- 
cribed as an obscure allegory, such as “the leech had three 
daughters,” and the like. Where the apostle speaks of an 
allegory, he is applying the term not to a phrase but to a fact: 
for he shows that the two Testaments are signified by the two 
sons of Abraham, one of a bondmaid and the other of a free 
woman — a matter not of words but of history. But before his 
exposition of it, it remained obscure; and therefore such an ex- 
ample, included under the general name of allegory, might 
also have the special name of enigma. 

16. However, it is not only people ignorant of literary dis- 
course on the varieties of tropes who may question the meaning 
of the apostle’s saying, that now we see in an enigma. The more 
instructed may still want to know what is the emgma wherein 
we now see. We must look therefore for a smgle meaning con- 
veyed in both parts of the sentence: in the words “we see now 
through a mirror,” and the addition, “in an enigma.” It seems 
to me that as the word “mirror” was intended to signify an 
image, so the word “enigma” was meant to stand for a simili- 
tude, but one that is obscure and hard to discern. If then under 
the names of “mirror” and “enigma” we may understand the 
apostle to have expressed the notion of certain similitudes 
adapted for our understanding of God, in the manner in which 
such understanding is possible; it remains true that the simih- 
tude best adapted for that purpose will be that which deserves 
to be called his image. There need be no surprise that in the 
manner of seeing permitted us in this life, “through a mirror in 
an enigma,” our struggle to see at all must be a hard one. If 
vision were easy, the word “enigma” would not be in place. The 
greater enigma lies in our not seeing that of which we cannot be 
without the vision. Can any man not see his own thought? And 
can any man see his own thought — I do not mean with his 
bodily eyes, but by an actual inward vision? Both not seeing 
and seeing are unimaginable. For thought is a kind of vision of 
the mind, whether in presence of the objects seen by the bodily 
eyes or felt by the other senses, or in their absence, when their 
likenesses are perceived by thought. And the same may be said 
when the object of thought is noting of the kind, neither bodily 
things nor their hkenesses, but such ideas as those of moral 
qualities, or of thought itself, the subjects of the sciences or 
28 IThess 5.6 ff. 29 Prov. 30.15. 



144 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

liberal arts, or their higher causes and principles in the eternal 
world, or even notions of evil, vanity, and falsehood, held in 
the mind either without approval or with an approval inspired 
by error. 

17 (x). We are now concerned with that which is object of 
our thought or matter of our knowing, though we may not be 
thinking of it; whether it belong to the contemplative faculty 
which I have argued should properly be called wisdom, or to 
the active which I would distinguish as knowledge. Both are at 
the same time faculties of the one mind — the one image of God. 
Yet when we are dealing with the lower faculty taken by itself, it 
is not to be called the image of God, although even then there is 
to be found in it a certain likeness of the divine Trinity. This we 
demonstrated in the thirteenth Book. We speak now of the 
whole range of human knowledge, in which we know all that 
is known to us: which must be true, or it could not be known. 
No-one can know what is false, except in the sense of knowing 
its falsity; and if that is known, the knowledge is true, inasmuch 
as it is the truth that the thing is false. We are dealing now with 
that of which we think as known, and which is known to us even 
if we are not thinking of it. Undoubtedly, if we would speak of 
it, we can only do so after thinking of it; for though no audible 
words be used, whoever thinks must be speaking in his heart. 
So we read in the Book of Wisdom: “they have said in them- 
selves, thinking amiss” — ^where “said in themselves” is ex- 
plained by the addition of the word “thinking.” There is a 
similar passage in the Gospel, where certain scribes, on hearing 
the Lord’s word to the paralytic — “Son, be of good cheer, thy 
sms are forgiven thee” — “said within themselves. This man 
blasphemeth.” “Said within themselves” can only mean “in 
thought,” And the passage continues: “And when Jesus had 
seen their thoughts, he said. Why think ye evil in your hearts?” 3 i 
So in Matthew’s account: Luke tells the same story as follows: 
“The Scribes and Pharisees began to think, saying. Who is this 
that speaketh blasphemies? Who can forgive sins, but God 
only? But when Jesus knew their thoughts, he answered and 
said unto them, What do ye think in your hearts?” ^2 Here the 
words “they thought, saying” is equivalent to the expression 
“they said, thinking” in the Book of Wisdom. In both places we 
are told that men speak within themselves and in their heart, 
that is, speak by thinking. They spoke within themselves, and 
were asked “What is it that ye think?” Again, of the rich man 
30 Wisdom 2: 1. 31 Matt. 9:2 ff. 32 Luke 5:21 fF. 



THE TRINITY 


145 

whose field brought forth plentifully, our Lord himself says, ‘"he 
thought within himself, saying,” ^3 

18. Thus, certain thoughts are locutions of the heart, which 
has its own “mouth,” according to our Lord’s saying: “Not that 
which entereth into the mouth defileth the man, but that which 
cometh forth from the mouth, this defileth the man.” In this one 
sentence he speaks of two “mouths” in a man, one of the body, 
the other of the heart. What his hearers supposed to cause de- 
filement, enters into the body’s mouth: that by which our Lord 
says that a man is defiled, comes forth from the mouth of the 
heart. So runs his own explanation of his saying, given personally 
to his disciples: “Are ye still without understanding? Do ye not 
understand that whatsoever entereth into the mouth goeth into 
the belly and is cast out into the draught?” Here the “mouth” is 
plainly that of the body; but the next words point to a “mouth” 
of the heart: “But the things which come forth from the mouth 
proceed from the heart, and they defile the man. For from the 
heart proceed evil thoughts,” etc.^^ The exposition could not be 
clearer. Yet when we say that thoughts are locutions of the 
heart, we are not denying that they are also visions, arising 
when they are true from visions of things known. In the external 
sphere of bodily activity, locution is one thing and vision an- 
other; but in the inward realm of our thoughts, both are one 
and the same. Hearing and sight are two different functions of 
the bodily sense, but in the mind there is no difference between 
seeing and hearing. That is why, although outward speech is 
not seen but heard, the holy Gospel can speak of the inward 
locutions which are thoughts as seen by our Lord and not heard: 
“They said within themselves, This man blasphemeth”; and 
then, “When Jesus saw their thoughts.” He saw what they had 
said — saw in his own thought their thoughts, which they sup- 
posed visible to themselves alone. 

19, It is possible therefore to understand the meaning of a 

word, not only before it is uttered aloud, but even before the 
images of its uttered sounds are rehearsed in thought; for there 
is a “word” which belongs to no tongue, to none (that is) of 
the “tongues of the peoples,” of which our Latin language is 
one. Any man that can understand this unspoken word, can 
see through this mirror and in this enigma a certain hkeness of 
that Word of which it is written: “In the beginning was the 
Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.” ^5 
When we speak the truth, that is, say what we know, there must 
33 Luke 12:17. 34 Matt. 15: 10 fF. ssjohn i:x. 



146 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

be born out of the knowledge held in our memory a word which 
corresponds in all respects to the knowledge of which it is born. 
The thought which has received form from the object of our 
knowledge is the word spoken in our heart — a word that is 
neither Greek nor Latin nor of any other tongue. Only when 
we need to convey it to the knowledge of those to whom 
we speak, do we employ some token by which to signify it. 
Usually a sound, but sometimes a gesture, is presented either 
to ear or eye, in order that by means of bodily tokens the word 
carried in our mind may be made known to the bodily senses. 
What indeed is beckoning but a kind of visible speech? We can 
quote Holy Scripture to the same purpose, where we read in 
John’s Gospel: ‘‘Verily, verily I say unto you that one of you 
shall betray me. His disciples therefore looked upon one an- 
other, doubting of whom he might speak. There was one of his 
disciples, leaning upon Jesus’ bosom, whom Jesus loved: Simon 
Peter therefore beckoned unto him, saying, Who is it of whom 
he speaks?” The beckoning of Peter says what he did not dare 
say aloud. These and the like bodily tokens we apply to the ears 
or eyes of persons present and conversing with us; but we have 
also invented letters to enable us to converse with the absent — 
letters being tokens of uttered sounds, whereas the uttered 
sounds themselves are tokens in our speaking of the realities of 
which we think. 

20 (xi). Accordingly, the word in its outward sounding is 
sign of the word that is inwardly luminous; and to this latter the 
name of “word” more properly belongs. What the mouth of 
flesh emits is the word’s utterance, which itself is called “word” 
on account of that by which it is assumed for outward exposure. 
We may compare the manner in which our own word is made 
as it were a bodily utterance, through assuming that utterance 
as a means of displaying itself to men’s senses, with that in which 
the Word of God was made flesh, through assuming that flesh 
as a means of displaying himself to men’s senses. Even as our 
word is made utterance yet not changed into utterance, so the 
Word of God was made flesh, but most assuredly not changed 
into flesh. Our word is made utterance, the divine Word flesh, 
by an assumption of the outward form, and not by a consump- 
tion of itself and a passing into the other. He therefore who de- 
sires to arrive at some sort of likeness — unlike as it must be at 
many points — of the Word of God, should not regard the human 
word that sounds upon the ear, either m its vocal utterance or 

36 John 13 21 if. 



THE TRINITY 


147 

in the unspoken thinking of it. The words of every audible lan- 
guage may also be thought upon without speech; poems may be 
repeated mentally, while the bodily mouth remains silent— not 
only the series of syllables, but the notes of tunes, material as 
they are, and addressed to the material sense which we call 
hearing, may be presented through their material images to the 
thinking mind which rehearses them all in silence. We must go 
beyond all this, to arrive at that human word which may furnish 
some small measure of likeness for the beholding, as in an 
enigma, of the Word of God. We speak here not of that word 
which came to one or another of die prophets, of which it is 
said that '‘the word of God grew, and was multiplied” 37- or 
again that “faith comes of hearing, and hearing through the 
word of Christ” or again: “when ye received from us the 
word of the hearing of God, ye received it not as the word of 
men, but as it is in truth, the word of God.” 3^ The Scriptures 
contain countless sayings of the kind concerning the word of 
God, which is spread abroad in many different tongues through 
the hearts and mouths of men. It is called God’s word, as 
delivering a doctrine that is divine and not human. The Word 
of God of which now we seek to gain some scanty vision by way 
of this likeness, is that of which it is written, that “the Word was 
God”; that “all things were made by him”; that “the Word was 
made flesh”; that “a fountain of wisdom is the Word of God in 
the highest.” We must arrive at that human word which is 
the word of a reasonable creature, the word of an image of God 
not born of God but made by him, a word neither producing 
itself in sound nor object of thought in a likeness of sound, such 
as must needs belong to a particular language; but the word 
that precedes all the tokens by which it is signified, and is be- 
gotten of the knowledge which remains in the mind, in the 
moment when that knowledge is spoken inwardly and with 
truth to itself. The vision of thought is very like the vision of 
knowledge. When the word is spoken aloud or by means of any 
bodily token, it is not spoken as it truly is but in the manner in 
which it may be seen or heard through the medium of the body. 
Thus when the word’s content is the same as the content of 
knowledge, it is then a true word — the truth that is expected of 
a man, wherein that which is in his knowledge is also in his 
word, and what is not in the one is not in the other. By this we 
recognize his “Yea, yea” and his “Nay, nay.”^^ And so the 

37 Acts 6.7. 38 Rom 10: 17. 39 I Thess. 2 13. 

40 John 1. 1, 3, 14; Ecclesiasticxis i 5. 4i Matt. 5 37 



AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


148 

likeness of the created image approaches as nearly as it may to 
that likeness of the image begotten, by which God the Son is 
declared like his Father in all things according to substance. 

There is a further likeness to the Word of God which we may 
observe in this ^'enigma.” It is said of the divine Word that ^'aU 
things were made through him” 42 * God is asserted to have 
created the universe through his only-begotten Word. So in the 
works of man there are none that are not first spoken in the 
heart, and hence it is written that “the beginning of every work 
is a word.” ^3 But here also there is beginning of a good work 
only when the word is a true word; and the word is true when 
it is begotten of the knowledge of good working. Here too 
the rule is “Yea, yea” and “Nay, nay”: if “Yea” stands in the 
knowledge whereby men should live, it must be also in the 
word, through which man must work; if “Nay” is there, then 
“Nay” must be here also. Else such a word will be a lie and not 
the truth, and from it proceed sin and no right working. 

Yet another likeness of God’s Word may be seen in this like- 
ness of our human word, in that a word of ours can be without 
a work following, while there can be no work without the pre- 
ceding word. In like manner the Word of God was able to be, 
apart from the existence of any creature; but there could be no 
creature, save through that Word through whom all things 
were made. And accordingly it was not God the Father nor the 
Holy Spirit, nor the Trinity itself, but only the Son, the Word 
of God, that was made flesh — although the making was act of 
the whole Trinity. For the purpose was that we might live 
aright by our word following the pattern of his example; which 
means that in our word, whether in contemplation or in work- 
ing, there be no manner of lie. But that is the perfection of the 
image, sometime to be. For the attaining of it we have the in- 
struction of a good master in Christian faith and teaching of 
godliness: to the end that “with unveiled face” — removing the 
veil of the Law which is shadow of things to come — “beholding 
in a mirror the glory of the Lord,” we may be transformed “into 
the same image from glory unto glory, even as from the Spirit 
of the Lord” ^4 — according to the exposition of this text which 
was given above. 21 . And when by that transformation the 
image in us will have been renewed unto perfection, we shall 
be like God, for we shall see him, not through a mirror but as 
he is 45 — in the apostle’s words “face to face.” 

42 John 1:3. 43 Ecclesiasticus 37:16 (Ixx). 

44 II Cor 3.18. 45 I John 3:2. 



THE TRINITY 


H9 

But for our present state, in this mirror, this enigma, this 
feeble trace of likeness, there remains a degree of unlikeness not 
easy for man to measure. Still, I will do what I can to suggest 
some few points in which the difference can be observed, 
(xii). In the first place, the knowledge itself from which our 
thought takes a form of truth, when we say what we know, must 
even for the most expert and learned of men be poor and scanty 
indeed. We need not dwell on what the mind receives from the 
bodily senses, in which the differences between appearance and 
reality are so many that a madman may think himself sane, in 
reliance on the plausibility of his sensations. Hence the pre- 
valence of the Academic philosophy, whose universal doubt 
was a madness even more pitiable. But apart from the mind’s 
dependence on the senses, how few things remain which we 
know as surely as we know that we are alive? There at least we 
need not fear to be deceived by the plausibility of appearance, 
since it is certam that he who is deceived is alive; and this assur- 
ance does not come to us in the way of impressions from the 
outer world: in it there can be no optical illusion, as when the 
oar in water appears as broken, towers on the land seem to men 
on shipboard to be in motion, and in so many other cases of dif- 
ference between appearance and reality. Here it is not the eye 
of flesh whereby we see: we know that we are alive by an 
interior knowledge, which cannot be touched by the suggestion 
of the Academic that we may be asleep without knowing it, and 
dream that we see. We all know that things seen by the dreamer 
are much hke those seen by the waking man. But certainty in 
the knowledge of living leads a man to say, not ‘T know that I 
am awake,” but “I know that I am alive”: whether asleep or 
awake, he is living. In that knowledge he cannot be deceived 
by dreams; for it takes a living man both to sleep and to dream. 
Nor can the Academic dispute that knowledge by saying, ®*You 
may perhaps be mad without knowing it, for there is httle dif- 
ference between the impressions of madness and those of san- 
ity.” The madman must be alive; and the reply to the Academic 
IS not “I know that I am not mad,” but know that I am 
alive.” Thus the claim to know that one is alive can never be 
convicted of illusion or falsity. Any number of deceptive im- 
pressions of aU kinds may be urged against it; but he who makes 

46 The sceptical school to which Augustme himself was inclined for a time 
after his rejection of Mamcheamsm {ConJ^ VI, 19 (x)), and which he set 
himself to refute after his conversion m the Contra Academicos, CX De Tnn,, 
X, 14 (x). 



AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


150 

the claim will remain entirely unmoved, since no man can be 
deceived who is not alive. 

Nevertheless, if human knowledge includes no more than 
certainties of this kind, they are indeed few; though it may be 
possible to multiply them in each class so that instead of being 
few they are found to run to infinity. Thus, the assertion 'T 
know that I am alive’’ is the assertion of a single item of know- 
ledge; but if one adds, ‘T know that I know that I am alive,” 
we already have two, and knowing that these two are known 
makes a third; and we can proceed in the same way, to add a 
fourth and a fifth, or as many as we will. Since however it is im- 
possible either to comprehend an innumerable number by the 
addition of units or to express it without numeration, we can at 
least comprehend and express with complete certainty the fact 
that this knowledge is both true and innumerable, in the sense 
that Its infinite number of items can truly be neither compre- 
hended nor expressed. And we can note the same fact in regard 
to certainty of will. To the man who says, ‘T wish to be happy,” 
you cannot have the face to retort, ‘ ‘Perhaps you are deceived”; 
and if he goes on to say, ‘T know that this is my wish, and I 
know that I know it,” he can add to these two items his know- 
ledge of them, to make a third, and a fourth, that he knows he 
knows those two, and so on to infinity. Again, take the assertion, 
‘T do not wish to be mistaken”: whether the asserter is mis- 
taken or not, it will still be true that he does not want to be 
mistaken. And no-one could have the face to reply, “Perhaps 
you are deceived,” seeing that in whatever other matter he may 
be deceived, he is not deceived about his unwillingness to be 
deceived. And if he says that he knows this, he can add any 
number of items known, clearly extensible to infinity. “I do not 
wish to be deceived, I know that I do not wish it, and I know 
that I know it” . . . however awkward the expression, the num- 
ber of such knowables can be shown to be infinite. There are 
other conclusive arguments against the Academic contention 
that nothing can be known by man; but we must dwell on the 
point no longer, as it is not the purpose of our present work: we 
may refer to the three Books written soon after our conversion.'^'^ 
Those who are able and willing to read them and to read with 
understanding, will be disturbed by none of the various argu- 
ments alleged by the Academics against our apprehension of 
truth. Of things known there are two kinds, the one of those 

47 The Contra Academicos m Retract , I, i , Augustine tells us that he wrote this 

work to clear his own mind of scepticism. Cf above, 2 1 (xii) n. 



THE TRINITY 


things which the mind apprehends through the bodily senses, 
the other of what it apprehends through itself. These philo- 
sophers have been voluble in depreciation of the bodily senses; 
but they have failed altogether to cast doubt upon certain un- 
shakable perceptions of truth which the mind reaches through 
itself, such as the judgment I have instanced, that I know that 
I am alive. Yet we are by no means to doubt the truth of what 
the bodily senses have taught us: for through them we have 
come to know heaven and earth and all that therein is known 
to us, in the measure in which he who has created us and them 
has willed that we should know them. Nor may we deny our 
knowledge of what we have learnt on the testimony of others: 
else we should be ignorant of the ocean, ignorant of the exist- 
ence of lands and cities of which common report assures us, 
ignorant of the past history of men and their works, ignorant of 
all the events of which news comes to us every day from all 
parts, confirmed by the agreement and support of other in- 
formation, ignorant finally of the places or the men from whom 
we have our own origin. All these things we have believed on 
the testimony of others. And if it be absurd to pretend such 
ignorance, we must admit that the bodily senses not only of 
ourselves but of strangers have made great additions to our 
knowledge. 

2 2 . All such knowledge in the mind of man, whether acquired 
through the mind itself, or through his bodily senses, or by the 
testimony of others, is preserved in the store-chamber of mem- 
ory; and from it is begotten a true word, when we speak what 
we know. But this word exists before any sound, before any 
imagining of a sound. For in that state the word has the closest 
likeness to the thing known, of which it is offspring and image; 
from the vision which is knowledge arises a vision which is 
thought, a word of no language, a true word born of a true 
thing, having nothing of its own but all from that knowledge of 
which it is born. It matters not when it was learnt by the man 
who speaks what he knows: sometimes the speaking may im- 
mediately follow the learning. It will still be true if it arises 
from things known. 

(xiii). But when we think of God the Father, of whom is 
begotten the Word that is God of God, can we suppose that the 
wisdom which is his own underived being has been learnt in 
part through a bodily sense and in part through himself? That 
would be to think of God as a rational animal, not as above the 
rational soul; but only thus can he be thought of by us men. 



152 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

higher than all animals and all souls, though seen only through 
a mirror, divined in an enigma, not yet face to face as he is. Of 
God the Father we cannot say that what he knows, not through 
the body (for he has none) but through himself, he has learnt 
of any other source, or has stood in need of messengers or wit- 
nesses for the knowledge of it. His own perfection suffices him 
for the knowledge of all that he knows. Messengers indeed he 
has, in the angels, but not to bring him news of what he does not 
know; for no such thing exists. The angels fulfil their being in 
taking counsel of his truth for their own works; and when they 
are said to be messengers to him of anything, it is not that he 
may learn of them but that they may learn of him through his 
Word, with no material sound. They are messengers of his will, 
sent by him to whom he wills, having all their hearing of him 
through that his Word: which means, finding in his truth what 
they must do, the substance, the destination, and the times of 
their messages. We too make our prayers to him, yet do not 
instruct him of our needs: 'Tor your father knoweth,” as his 
Word has said, "what is needful for you, before ye ask of him.” 48 
Nor has he learnt the knowledge of this at any point in time. 
All that was to be in time, what and when we were to ask of him, 
to whose asking and to what requests he should hearken or not 
hearken, were known to him beforehand without any begin- 
ning. Of all his creatures, both spiritual and material, his know- 
ledge is not consequent on their existence; but their existence 
consequent on his knowledge. He was never m ignorance of 
what he was to create: he created therefore because he knew, 
he did not know because he created. Nor was his knowledge of 
them as created different from his knowledge of them as to be 
created, for their being added nothing to his wisdom, which 
stood fast as it ever was, while they came into being as it be- 
hoved them and when it behoved them. So it is written in the 
Book of Ecclesiasticus: "all things were known unto him before 
they were created, even so as after they were finished.” 49 ‘‘Even 
so,” not otherwise: both "before they were created,” and "after 
they were finished,” "even so” were they known to him. From 
that knowledge, therefore, our own knowledge is widely dif- 
ferent. What is knowledge in God is at the same time wisdom, 
and what is wisdom is at the same time essence or substance. 
For in the marvellous simplicity of the divine nature, to be wise 
and to be are not different things: what constitutes wisdom, 
itself constitutes being, as we have constantly maintained in 
48 Malt. 6 8 . 49 Ecclesiasticus 23:20. 



THE TRINITY 


153 

;\dous Books. 50 Whereas our own knowledge in many matters 
ubject to loss and acquisition, since in us there is no identity 
being and knowledge or wisdom: we may still have being, 
lugh we are ignorant or lacking in understanding of what we 
/e learnt from external sources. For this reason, the unlike- 
;s of our knowledge to the knowledge of God is paralleled by 
: unlikeness of the word in us, which is born of our knowledge, 
the Word of God that is begotten of the Father’s essence — 
ich is as much as to say, of the Father’s knowledge, or of the 
ther’s wisdom; or, to express it more adequately, of the Father 
o is knowledge, the Father who is wisdom. 

>3 (xiv). Thus, the Word who is God the Father’s only- 
gotten Son, in all things like and equal to the Father, God of 
d, Light of Light, Wisdom of Wisdom, Essence of Essence — 
Lt Word is entirely what the Father is, though he is not the 
ther since this is Son and that is Father. So he knows all that 
; Father knows, but his knowledge hke his being is from the 
ther; for kno%ving and being here are one. Whereas the 
ther’s knowledge, no more than his being, is derived from 
: Son. The Father’s begetting of the Word, equal to himself 
all things, is a kind of speaking of himself: he would not 
VC spoken himself wholly and perfectly, if there were less or 
ire in his Word than in himself. Here we see the supreme 
tlization of ‘'Yea, yea; Nay, nay.” So that this Word is truly 
th itself, for he contains all that is in that knowledge of 
ich he is begotten, and nothing that is not in it. There can 
7CT in this Word be any falsity, since he disposes himself im- 
itably as the Father disposes himself, from whom he is. “The 
Cl can do nothing of himself, but what he sees the Father 
ing.” 51 This “inability” is true ability, not weakness but the 
ength whereby truth is unable to be false. So the Father 
ows aU things both in himself and in the Son, but in himself 
knows aU things as himself, in the Son as his Word, springing 
m all that is in himself. In like manner the Son knows all 
ngs: in himself, as what is born of that which the Father 
ows in himself, and in the Father, as that of which is born 
that the Son knows in himself. Thus Father and Son know 
e another, the one by begetting, the other by being begotten. 
[ that is in their knowledge, their wisdom, their essence, is 
:n by each of them in a single act, with no separation into 
rts or units, as though the sight should move from one point 
another and back again, or transfer itself from this or that 
E g., De Tnn , VI, 8 (vii). See Introduction, p. 21. si John 5:19. 



154 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

point to others in succession, unable to see one without losing 
others from view. All, I say, are seen together, and of them all 
there is nothing that is not always in sight. 

24. We have seen that there is in ourselves a word that has 
no sound uttered or imagined, but belongs to a reality of in- 
ward vision and inward utterance, and therefore not to any 
spoken language. Hence there is in this ‘‘enigma’’ a kind of 
likeness to the Word of God which is also God; inasmuch as 
this word is born of our knowledge, as God’s Word is born of 
the Father’s. But in this word of ours, so recognized as having a 
certain likeness to God’s, it must not irk us to observe and 
describe as fairly as we may the many elements of unlikeness. 

(xv) . First, can we say that the word in us is born only of 
our knowledge? Do we not say many things that we do not 
know — and not doubtfully but in the belief that they are true? 
If they happen to be true, the truth will lie in the things of 
which we speak and not in our own word; for there is no true 
word that is not begotten of a thing known. In this way our 
word may be false not through our lying but through our mis- 
taking, When we are in doubt, the word is derived not from the 
thing of which we doubt but from the doubt itself. We may not 
know whether that of which we doubt is true; but we know that 
we doubt, and therefore when we say so the word is true, for we 
are saying what we know. Again, we may lie, in which case our 
word is wilfully and knowingly false, whereas the true word is 
that we are lying; for that is what we know. And when we confess 
a he, we speak the truth, for we are saying what we know, which 
is that we have lied. But that Word which is God, and more 
powerful than us, has no power so to do. For “he can do noth- 
ing, but what he seeth the Father doing”; and he speaks not 
from himself, but has from the Father all that he speaks, since 
he himself is spoken by the Father alone. The high power of that 
Word is to have no power to lie: in him there is no “Yea and 
Nay,” but “Yea, yea,” and “Nay, nay.” It may be objected 
that what is not true ought not to be called a word; and to that 
I wilhngly agree. But even when our word is true and so rightly 
called a word, can we say that as it may be called vision from 
vision, or knowledge from knowledge, it can also be called 
essence from essence — even as the Word of God is chiefly and 
most rightly so called? It cannot, because in us being and know- 
ing are not identical. We know many things which have through 
our memory of them a kind of life, and when we forget them a 
kind of death: thus when they are no longer in our knowledge. 



THE TRINITY 


155 

yet we still exist, and when our knowledge has slipped from 
the mind and so perished for us, yet we are still alive. 

25. There are indeed items of knowledge which cannot be 
lost, since their presence belongs to the nature of the mind itself 
— as for example the knowledge that we are alive, which must 
continue as long as the mind continues; and that means for ever. 
But this and any similar kind of knowledge, in which we may 
especially look for the image of God, though always known is 
not always object of thought. Since the word in us is spoken by 
thinking, it is not easy to see how the word of such knowledge 
can be called everlasting. The mind’s hfe and the mind’s know- 
ledge that it lives are both everlasting; but its thinking of its life 
or of the knowledge of its life is not, since in passing from one 
thought to another it will cease to think of the former although 
it will not cease to know it. If then any everlasting knowledge 
can exist m the mind, but an everlasting thought of that know- 
ledge cannot, and if the true inward word in us is spoken only 
when we think, it follows that God alone may be understood to 
possess a Word that is everlasting and co-eternal with himself. 
It may be suggested that a word as unbroken as the knowledge 
is to be found in the mere possibility of thought, in the fact that 
what is known is always potentially object of a true thought, 
even when it is not actually being thought of.^^ But what has 
not yet taken form in the mental vision is not in the proper sense 
a word: it cannot present a likeness to the knowledge of which 
it is born, if it has not the form of that knowledge, and is only 
called a word as having such form potentially. We might as 
well say that it should be called a word because it is one 
potentially. But what ts this potential word that claims the 
name of word? What is this thing capable of form but still un- 
formed, but a process in our mind, darting hither and thither 
with a kind of movement of passage, as we turn our thought 
from one object to another in the course of discovery or pre- 
sentation? It becomes a true word, only when what I have 
called this darting movement of passage comes upon what we 
know and takes form from it, receiving its likeness at every 
point; so that the mode of thought correspond to the mode 
of knowledge, and its object be spoken in the heart without 
voice, uttered or imagined, such as must belong to a particular 

52 We are reminded here of Augustme’s assertion that memory, imderstand- 
ing, and will are always present in the mind, even if below the level of con- 
sciousness (cf. above, X, 1 9 (xii) n ) , The foUowmg discussion brings out 
the difficulties of the conception with regard to “understanding.” 



156 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

language. We may allow, to avoid the appearance of verbal con- 
troversy, that the mental process capable of taking form from 
our knowledge may be called a word even before the form is 
taken, as being so to say formable. But who can fail to see the 
unlikeness herein to that Word of God which is in the form of 
God, not in the sense of having been first formable and later 
formed, or able at any time to be without form, but as being a 
form incomposite and equal without composition to him from 
whom it is derived, and with whom it is in marvellous wise co- 
eternal? We speak therefore of the Word of God, but not of 
God’s thinking, in order to exclude the notion of any passing 
process in God, now receiving form and now regaining it in 
order to become a word — capable therefore of losing its form 
and passing through some unstable condition of formlessness. 
That great master of language, Vergil, knew well the value of 
words, with a sure insight into the nature of thought, when he 
wrote in his poem: 

. . . “passes within himself 
The varied happenings of war” . . .53 

which simply means “thinks.” That is why the Son of God is 
not called God’s thought but God’s Word. Our own thought 
becomes our true word when it arrives at what we know and 
takes form from it. The Word of God must be understood apart 
from any thought of God, as a form in itself incomposile, de- 
pending on no “formable” state that may as well lack form as 
have it. The Scriptures do indeed speak of “thoughts” of God, 
but only by the same mode of expression which also speaks of 
God’s “forgetting” — of which assuredly there can in strictness 
be none in God. 

26. Recognizing then so great an unlikeness to God and his 
Word in this “enigma” as it now is, despite the measure of hke- 
ness we have found in it, we must admit that even when “w^e 
shall be 'like him,” when “we shall see him as he is” 54 (words 
clearly implying awareness of our present unlikeness), we shall 
yet have no natural equality with him. For the created nature 
must always be less than the Creator. Then indeed our word 
will not be false, for we shall neither lie nor be mistaken. Per- 
haps there will be no passage in our thoughts, of movement and 
return from one thing to another, but we shall see all our know- 
ledge in one simultaneous view. Yet even in that state, if we 
reach it, the creature that was once formable will have achieved 

53 Verg., Aen , X, 159 f. 54 i John 3:2. 



THE TRINITY 


^57 

formation indeed, in such wise that nothing will be lacldng to 
its destined form; but still it cannot be reckoned equal to that 
incomposite being in which there is nothing formed or re- 
formed that once was formable, but pure form, an eternal and 
immutable substance, neither formless nor formed. 

27 (xvii). Concerning the Father and the Son we have 
now said as much as we have found possible to discern by means 
of the mirror and enigma of our human mind. It remains for 
us to consider, with such insight as God’s gift may grant us, the 
Holy Spirit. Scripture teaches us that he is the Spirit neither of 
the Father alone nor of the Son alone, but of both; and so his 
being suggests to us that mutual charity whereby the Fathei and 
the Son love one another. But for the exercise of our under- 
standing, the inspired word has set before us truths not lying on 
the surface but to be explored in the depths and thence brought 
up to light; so that our search calls for the greater diligence. The 
Scripture has not said: '^the Holy Spirit is charity.” If it had, 
much of our enquiry would have been foreclosed. It has said: 
“God is charity” 55; and so left us to ask whether God the 
Father be charity, or God the Son, or God the Holy Spirit, or 
God the Trinity itself. Now it is not open to us to say that God 
is called charity, not because charity is a substantive reality 
worthy to be named God, but because it is God’s gift. In this 
latter manner, when God is addressed in Scripture in such terms 
as: ‘fthou art my patience,” the meaning is not that our 
patience is the substance of God, but that it comes to us from 
him, as indeed we read elsewhere: “from him is my patience ”. 5 7 
But this interpretation is at once refuted by the actual lan- 
guage of the Scriptures. “Thou art my patience” is like “Thou, 
Lord, art my hope,” and “My God is my compassion,” 59 and 
many expressions of the kind. But we do not read: “the Lord is 
my charity,” or “Thou art my charity,” or “God is my charity,” 
but “God is charity” — -just as “God is a Spirit.” Anyone who 
cannot see the difference must seek understanding from the 
Lord and not explanation from us; for we have no words to 
make the point more evident, 

28. God, then, is charity. Our question is whether this be- 
speaks Father, or Son, or Holy Spirit, or the Trinity itself which 
is not three Gods, but one God. I have argued earlier in the 
present Book that the divine Trinity must not be so conceived, 
from the likeness of the three members displayed in our mental 

55 I John 4:16. 56 Ps. 71:5. 57 Ps. 62:5. 

58 Ps. 91:9 59 Ps, 59* 17. 



158 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

trinityj as to make the Father memory of all three, the Son 
understanding of all three, and the Holy Spirit charity of all 
three. It is not as though the Father neither understood nor 
loved for himself, but the Son understood for him and the Holy 
Spirit loved for him, while he himself did nothing but “re- 
member,’’ both for himself and for them; nor as though the Son 
neither remembered nor loved for himself, but the Father 
remembered for him and the Holy Spirit loved for him, while 
he himself did nothing but understand both for himself and for 
them; nor as though the Holy Spirit neither remembered nor 
understood for himself, but the Father remembered for him and 
the Son understood for him, while he himself only loved both 
for himself and for them. Rather must we think that all and each 
possess all three characters in their proper nature; and that in 
them the three are not separate, as in ourselves memory is one 
thing, understanding another, and love or charity another: but 
that there is one single potency for them all, such as wisdom 
itself, so possessed in the nature of each several Person that he 
who possesses it is that which he possesses, i.e., the form of a 
changeless and incomposite substance. If this be understood and 
its truth manifest, so far as we may be suffered to see or to con- 
jecture in these great matters, I see no reason why, just as 
Father, Son and Holy Spirit are each called wisdom, and all 
together are not three wisdoms but one, so Father, Son, and 
Holy Spirit may not each be called charity, and all together one 
charity. In the same way the Father is God, the Son is God, and 
the Holy Spirit God; and all together are one God. 

29. Yet there is good reason why in this Trinity we call none 
Word of God but the Son, none Gift of God but the Holy Spirit, 
none of whom the Word is begotten and from whom the Holy 
Spirit originally proceeds, but God the Father. I add the word 
“originally,” because we learn that the Holy Spirit proceeds 
also from the Son.^o But this is part of what is given by the 
^0 The doctrine of the “double procession” of the Holy Spirit, which led to 
the insertion of the Fzhoque clause into the Nicene Greed, was expressly 
maintained by Augustine. He argued that it was implied both by the 
Scriptural phrases “Spirit of the Son,” “Spirit of Christ,” and by the 
account in John 20:22 of Christ’s insufflation of the Spirit upon his dis- 
ciples after the Resurrection. See, e.g.. In Jo Ev Tr , XGIX, 6 ff. (quoted 
by Augustine below in Bk XV, 48 (xxvii)), Contra Maxim , II, xiv, i. — 
At the same time Augustme always insisted (as here) that the procession 
of the Spirit from the Son is part of that which the Son receives from the 
Father in his eternal generation. There is thus no real difference between 
his position and the Eastern doctrme of the Spirit’s procession from the 
Father through the Son. 



THE TRINITY 


159' 

Father to the Son, not as already existing without it, but given 
to him as all that the Father gives to his only-begotten \\’’ord, in 
the act of begetting. He is begotten in such wise that the com- 
mon gift proceeds from him also, and the Holy Spirit is Spint 
of both. And this distinction within the indivisible Trinity is not 
to be admitted in passing, but to be observed with all diligence. 
For hence it comes that the Word of God is by a special fitness 
called also the Wisdom of God, though both Father and Holy 
Spirit are wisdom. If then one of the Aree is by a special fitness 
to be named charity, the name falls most appropnately to the 
Holy Spirit. And this means that in the incomposite and 
supreme being of God, substance is not to be distinguished from 
chanty; but substance is itself charity, and charity itself is sub- 
stance, whether in the Father or in the Son or in the Holy 
Spirit, and yet by a special fitness the Holy Spirit is named 
charity. 

30. We may compare the manner in which all the oracles of 
the Old Testament Scripture are sometimes denoted by the 
name of Law. A text quoted from the prophet Isaiah, where he 
says, “By other tongues and other hps I will speak to this 
people,” is introduced by the apostle with the words “it is 
written in the law.” And our Lord himself says, “It is written 
in their law, that they have hated me without a cause,” though 
we read the words in a Psalm. But sometimes the title is as- 
signed specially to the Law given through Moses, as in the 
texts, “the law and the prophets were until John,” and “on 
these two commandments hang the whole law and the 
prophets.” Here certainly the Law is entitled in its special 
sense, as that coming from Mount Sinai. Again under the name 
of “Prophets” we find the Pseilms denoted; though elsewhere 
the Saviour himself says: “it behoved all things to be fulfilled 
which are written in the law and the prophets and the psalms 
concerning me.” Here again the name “Prophets” excludes 
the Psalms. “Law,” then, may be used in a general sense to in- 
clude Prophets and Psalms, but also in a special sense of the 
Law given through Moses; and “Prophets” may be used as a 
common term including the Psalms, as well as in a special sense 
excluding them. And there are numerous other instances to 
show that many names can both be extended generally, and 
also applied in a special sense to certain things; but we need not 
dwell at length on so plain a matter. I am concerned only to 

Isa. aS'ii; I Cor. 14:2. 62 John 15:25, Ps. 35.19. 

«3 Matt. it. 1 3; 22.40. Luke 24 44. 



l60 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

rebut the charge of impropriety in calling the Holy Spirit char- 
ity, if made on the ground that both God the Father and 
God the Son are entitled to the same name. 31. We may say, 
then, that just as we give the name of wisdom by a special fit- 
ness to the one Word of God, though in general both the Holy 
Spirit and the Father himself are wisdom, so is the Holy Spirit 
by a special fitness to be called charity, though both Father and 
Son are charity in general. The Word of God, God’s only- 
begotten Son, is expressly named as the Wisdom of God in the 
apostle’s own phrase, “Christ the power of God and the wisdom 
of God.” But we can also find authority for calling the Holy 
Spirit charity, by a careful examination of the apostle John’s 
way of speaking. After saying, “Beloved, let us love one an- 
other, for love is of God,” he goes on to add, “and every one 
that loveth is born of God: he that loveth not, hath not known 
God, for God is love.” This makes it plain that the love which 
he calls God is the same love which he has said to be “of God.” 
Love, then, is God of (or from) God. But since both Son is born 
and Spirit proceeds from God the Father, we must naturally 
enquire to which of them applies the saying in this passage that 
God is love. Only the Father is God without being “of God”; 
so tliat the love which is God as being “of God” must be either 
the Son or the Holy Spirit. Now in what follows the writer 
refers to the love of God — not that by which we love him, but 
that by which “he loved us, and sent his Son as expiator for our 
sins”; and bases thereon his exhortation to us to love one an- 
other, that so God may dwell in us, since God (as he has said) 
is love. And there follows at once, designed to express the matter 
more plainly, the saying: “hereby we know that we dwell in 
him, and he in us, because he hath given us of his Spirit.” Thus 
the Holy Spirit, of whom he has given us, makes us dwell in 
God, and God in us. But that is the effect of love. The Holy 
Spirit himself therefore is the God who is love. A little further 
on, after repeating his statement that “God is love,” John adds 
immediately, “and he that abideth in love abideth in God, and 
God abideth in him”: which corresponds to the earlier saying, 
‘hereby we know that we abide in him and he in us, because he 
hath given us of his Spirit.” It is the Spirit therefore who is sig- 
nified in the text “God is love.” God the Holy Spirit who pro- 
ceeds from God, when he is given to man kindles him with the 
love of God and of neighbour, and is himself love. For man has 


65 1 Cor. 1.24. 


65 I John 4:7 ff. 



THE TRINITY 


l6l 

no means of loving God, unless it comes of God: hence the fol- 
lowing saying, that 'Sve love him because he first loved us.’’ It is 
the same in the apostle Paul: “the love of God is shed abroad 
in our hearts through the Holy Spirit which is given to us.” <57 
32 (xviii). More excellent gift of God than this there is 
none. It alone divides between the sons of the eternal kingdom 
and the sons of eternal perdition. Other favours also are given 
through the Holy Spirit, but without charity they avail nothing. 
Unless the Holy Spirit be bestowed in such measure on any man 
as to make him a lover of God and of his neighbour, he cannot 
pass from the left hand to the right. The name of Gift belongs 
properly to the Spirit, only on account of love — the love which 
he that lacks, though he speak with the tongues of men and 
angels, is sounding brass and a tinkling cymbal: though he have 
prophecy and know all mysteries and all knowledge, and though 
he have all faith so as to remove mountains, he is nothing: and 
though he distribute all his substance, and give his body to be 
burned, it profits him nothing, How great a blessing must this 
be, without which blessings so great can bring no man to eternal 
life! But suppose a man that does not speak with tongues, has 
not prophecy, knows not aU mysteries or all knowledge, dis- 
tributes not all his goods to the poor — ^whether because he has 
none to distribute or because some necessity forbids, nor gives 
his body to be burned — ^if he have no trial of such suffering to 
face. Love itself, or charity — both words mean the same thing — 
if such a man have it, will bring him to the kingdom: even to 
faith charity gives all its fruitfuhiess. For there may indeed be 
faith without charity, but not a faith that profits. So the 
apostle Paul says: “In Christ Jesus neither circumcision availeth 
anything, nor uncircumcision, but the faith which worketh 
through love” so distinguishing this faith from that whereby 
the devils also believe and tremble, Thus the love which is of 
God and is God is specially the Holy Spirit, through whom is 
spread abroad in our hearts the charity of God by which the 
whole Trinity makes its habitation within us. And therefore is 
the Holy Spirit, God though he be, most rightly called also the 
Gift of God; and what can be the special sense of that gift but 


67 Rom. 5*5. This exegesis of I John, ch. 4 (for which cf. In Ep» Jo, Tr,y 
VII, 6; VIII, 12) is no doubt forced in so far as it attempts to prove an 
intentional equation of love with the Holy Spirit. But Augustine is not 
mistaken m finding both in John and Paul the doctrme that love is the 
unfailing evidence of the Spirit’s presence and working. 

68 I Clor. 13: 1 ff. 69 Gal. 5:6. 70 James 2* 19. 



AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


162 

charity, which brings us to God, and without which no other of 
God’s ^ts can bring us to him? 

33 (xix). If proof be still awaited that the Holy Spirit is 
called in the inspired writings the Gift of God, we have the 
words of our Lord Jesus Christ in the Gospel according to John. 
‘‘If any man thirst, let him come to me and drink. He that be- 
Keveth in me, as the Scripture saith, out of his belly shall flow 
rivers of living water.” To which the Evangelist adds his com- 
ment: “and this he said of the Spirit which they that believed 
on him were to receive.” Hence too the saying of the apostle 
Paul: “and we have all drunk of one Spirit.” ^2 it may be asked 
whether this water which is the Holy Spirit is actually called the 
Gift of God. The answer is that this water, found in that place 
to be the Holy Spirit, is found elsewhere in the same Gospel 
named as God’s gift. When our Lord was talking at the well 
with the woman of Samaria, to whom he had said, “Give me 
to drink,” and she answered that the Jews had no dealings with 
the Samaritans, Jesus answered and said unto her: “If thou 
hadst known the gift of God, and who he is that saith unto thee, 
Give me to drink, thou mightest have asked of him and he 
would have given thee living water. The woman saith to him. 
Lord, thou hast nothing to draw with, and the well is deep: 
whence then hast thou hving water? . . . Jesus answered and 
said unto her: Every one that drinketh of this water shall thirst 
again; but he that shall drink of the water that I shall give him 
shall not thirst for evermore; but the water that I shall give him 
shall become in him a fountain of water springing unto eternal 
life.” Since this hving water, according to the Evangelist’s ex- 
position, is the Holy Spint, no doubt but the Spirit is that Gift of 
God of which our Lord here says: “if thou hadst known the gift 
of God, and who he is that saith unto thee. Give me to drink, 
thou mightest have asked of him and he would have given thee 
living water.” The reference in the one passage, “Out of his 
belly shall flow rivers of living water,” is the same as in the 
other: “shall become in him a fountain of water springing unto 
eternal life.” 

34. Paul the apostle also tells us that “to each one of us is 
given grace according to the measure of the giving of Christ”; 
and that the giving of Christ is the Holy Spirit is shown by his 
next words: “Wherefore he saith, he ascended on high and led 
captivity captive, and gave gifts to men.” 74 Now we know well 

71 John 7:37 ff*. 72 I Cor. 12: 13. 

73 John 4: 7 ff, 74 Eph. 4. 7 f. 



THE TRINITY 


163 

that our Lord Jesus, after his resurrection from the dead and 
ascension into heaven, gave the Holy Spirit, by whose inspira- 
tion the believers spoke with the tongues of all nations. The 
word '‘gifts,” instead of “gift,” need not disturb us, for it comes 
in a quotation from the Psalm; where, however, we actually 
read: “Thou hast ascended on high, thou hast led captivity 
captive, thou hast received gifts among men.” Xhis is the 
reading of most manuscripts, especially the Greek; and so we 
have it as the translation of the Hebrew. The apostle follows the 
prophet in using the word “gifts,” and not “gift”; but where 
the prophet says, “thou hast received gifts among men,” the 
apostle chooses to say “gave gifts unto men.” Thus we get the 
fullest meaning from both texts, the prophetic and the apostolic, 
as in both is the authority of the divine word. For both are true 
— ^both that he gave to men, and that he received among men: 
gave to men, as the head to his members; and received among 
men, himself in his members. On account of these his members 
he called from heaven, “Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me?” 
and concerning them he says, “when ye did it unto one of my 
Uttlest ones, ye did it unto me.”76 Thus Christ himself both 
gave from heaven and received upon earth. On the other hand, 
both prophet and apostle have spoken in the plural of “gifts,” 
because through the one Gift which is the Holy Spirit there is a 
distribution to the community of all Christ’s members of many 
gifts, appropriated to each of them. Not every individual has 
all the gifts, but these have some and those others: though that 
one Gift, the Holy Spirit, by whom the rest are severally appor- 
tioned, is given to all. Paul in another passage, after mentioning 
the many gifts, says, “All these worketh one and the same 
Spirit, apportioning to every man as he will.” We find the 
same thought in tbe Epistle to the Hebrews: “God bearing 
them witness, with signs and wonders, and with divers miracles, 
and with distributings of the Holy Spirit.” ^8 In the text from 
which we started, after the quotation, “he ascended on high, 
led captivity captive, and gave gifts to men,” Paul continues: 
“that he ascended, what is it but that he also descended into the 
lower parts of the earth? He that descended is the same that 

75 Ps. 68.18. 

76 Acts 9 4; Matt. 25*40. This principle of exegesis, based on the doctrine 
of the Church as Christ’s mystical Body, which Augustine used as key 
to interpretation of the Psalms, he had learnt from the Rides of Tyconius 
the Donatist. For a possible explanation of Paul’s variation from the 
Psalm text, see Armitage Robinson’s commentary on Ephesians, ad loc, 

77 I Cor. 12:11. 78 Heb. 2:4. 



AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


164 

also ascended above all heavens, that he might fill all things. 
And he gave, some apostles, some prophets, some evangelists, 
some pastors and teachers.” Here we see why “gifts” were 
spoken of. As Paul says elsewhere: “Are all apostles? are all 
prophets?”’® And he concludes: “for the perfecting of the 
saints unto the work of ministering, unto the building up of the 
body of Chnst.”^'’ That is the house, built up, as the Psalm has 
It, after the captivity;*’ for of those who are delivered from the 
devil, by whom they were held captive, is built up the house of 
Christ — the house which is called the Church. That captivity 
has been led captive by the conqueror of the devil, who has 
bound him, first with the chains of justice and then with the 
chains of power: *’ that he might not carry with him into eternal 
punishment those that were to be members of a holy head. So is 
the devil himself signified by the “captivity” led captive by him 
who has ascended on high and given gifts to men, or received 
them among men. 

35. We have also the words of the aposde Peter, recorded in 
our canonical Acts of the Apostles. When by his speaking of 
Christ the Jews are stirred in their hearts, and ask, “What then 
shall we do, brethren? Show us,” he answers: “Repent, and be 
baptized each one of you m the name of Jesus Christ for the re- 
mission of sins; and ye shall receive the gift of the Holy Spirit.”** 
In the same book we read how Simon Magus would have given 
money to the apostles, in order that he might receive from them 
the power by which through the laying-on of his hands the 
Holy Spirit should be given. It is Peter again who answers: 
“Thy money pensh wiSi thee, because thou hast thought to 
possess the gift of God by money.” *^ In another passage of the 
Acts, where Peter speaks to Cornelius and them that were with 
him, proclaiming and preaching Christ, the Scripture says: 
“While Peter yet spoke these words, the Holy Spirit fell upon 
all them that heard the word; and the believers of the circum- 
cision, that had come with Peter, were amazed, because upon 
the Gentiles also was poured out the gift of the Holy Spirit. For 
they heard them speaking with tongues and glorifying God.”** 
Afterwards Peter is called to give account to the brethren at 
Jerusalem, who were moved at the report of his action in bap- 
tizing men uncircumcised, because before they were baptized the 
Holy Spirit had come upon them, so as to cut away all ground 

’9 I Cor 12-29. *° Eph. 4:12. *’ Ps. 127:1. 

8* See Bk. XIII, Argument. si Acts 2.37 f. 

S'* Acts 8: 18 AT. ss Acts 10.44 AT. 



THE TRINITY 165 

for questioning; and his story ends: “When I had begun to 
speak unto them, the Holy Spirit fell upon them, as upon us in 
the beginning. And I remembered the word of the Lord, how 
that he said, John indeed baptized with water, but ye shall be 
baptized with the Holy Spirit. If therefore he hath given to 
them an equal gift as to us who have believed in the Lord Jesus 
Christ; who was I, that I should be able to prevent God from 
giving unto them the Holy Spirit? ”*6 

There are many other Scripture texts which agree in their 
testimony that the Holy Spirit is the gift of God, inasmuch as 
he is given to them that love God through him. But it would be 
tedious to collect them all; and a man not contented by those 
we have quoted is likely to be content with nothing. 

36. It may be necessary to point out, when the Scriptural 
appellation of the Holy Spirit as God’s ^t is recognized, that 
the phrase “gift of the Holy Spirit” is a form of expression of the 
same kind as “putting off the body of the flesh”*’: just as “body 
of the flesh” means no more than “the flesh,” so “the ^t of the 
Holy Spirit” means no more than “the Holy Spirit.” He is the 
gift of God inasmuch as he is given to those to whom he is given. 
In himself he is God, though he were given to no man; he was 
God, co-etemal with Father and Son, before being ^ven to 
anyone. Nor is he a lesser than they because they are givers and 
he given. Though given as God’s gift, he is as God the giver of 
himself. The Spirit who is said to “breathe where he listeth”®* 
cannot be held to lack power over himself. Similarly the apostle’s 
words already quoted: “all these worketh one and the same 
Spirit, dividing severally to every man as he will,” indicate not 
a subjection of the given and a domination of the givers, but a 
concord of given and givers. 

37. To sum up. Holy Scripture proclaims that God is charity. 

Charity is of God, and its effect in us is that w'e dwell in God and 
he in us. This we know, because he has given us of his Spirit. 
It follows that the Spirit himself is the God who is charity. If 
among God’s gifts there is none greater than charity, and there 
is no greater gift of God than the Holy Spirit, we naturally con- 
clude that he who is said to be both God and of God is himself 
charity. And if the charity whereby the Father loves the Son 
and the Son loves the Father displays, beyond the power of 
words, the communion of both, it is most fitting that the Spirit 
who is common to both should liave the special name of charity. 
The sounder way of faith or of understanding is to hold that 
s* Acts ii: 15 ff. ttciol. 2.11. John 3:8. 



i66 Augustine: later works 

while charity in the divine Trinity is not the Holy Spirit alone, 
yet the reasons given justify applying to him this special name. 
So in the Trinity it is not he alone that is either Spirit or Holy, 
since the Father is Spirit and the Son is Spirit, the Father is Holy 
and the Son is Holy. Piety allows no doubt of that; yet we have 
reason for calling him in especial the Holy Spirit. Because he is 
common to both, he has in especial the name that belongs to 
both in common. If in the Trinity the Holy Spirit alone were 
charity, then the Son would be made out to be Son not of 
the Father alone but also of the Holy Spirit. Countless as are the 
texts which call him the only-begotten Son of the Father, the 
apostle’s saying concerning God tie Father remains true: ‘ Vho 
hath delivered us from the power of darkness and translated us 
into the kingdom of the Son of his charity.” ^9 ]\fot here, ^‘of his 
Son” — though that would have had the truth of frequent usage 
— but “Son of his charity.” If in the Trinity there is no charity 
of God save the Holy Spirit, then the Son is Son also of the 
Holy Spirit. That conclusion being absurd, the alternative must 
be accepted, that the Holy Spirit is not charity alone of the 
Trinity, but so called especially for the reasons sufficiently set 
forth. The phrase, “Son of his charity,” means simply “his be- 
loved Son” — ^in fine, the Son of his substance. For that charity 
of the Father that exists in his ineffably incomposite nature is 
nothing else than his very nature and substance — as we have so 
often said and must not weary of repeating. Thus the Son of his 
charity is no other than the offspring of his substance. 

38 (xx). This shows the foolishness of the arguments of 
Eunomius, from whom the Eunomian heresy arose. He could 
not understand, and would not believe that the only-begotten 
Word of God, through whom all things were made, was the Son 
of God by nature, that is, born of the Father’s substance. There- 
fore he maintained that the Word was not Son of his nature, his 

89 Col. 1:13. 

90 Eunomius was the chief representative of the later “dialectical** Arianism, 
and both Basil and Gregory of Nyssa wrote to refute him. The particular 
doctrine that the generation of the Son was a creative act of the Father’s 
will, had been held by Arians from the beginning, as well as by Eusebius 
of Caesarea, They could appeal to the language of earlier Fathers, 
including Origen who had said {De Pnncip , IV, 28) that the Son might 
be called Son of the Father’s will, being the “Son of his love.** See 
Athanasius, C. Anan , III, 59 ff Eunomius distinguished the “essence** of 
God from his “activity** in creation and the time-process, the latter being 
identifiable with his will. The theory is stated in his ApologeticiiSy prmted 
in Migne, P.G., XXX, with the works of Basil. 



THE TRINITY 


167 

substance or essence, but Son of God’s will. His intention was 
to make the will by which the Father begot the Son an accident 
in God: just as we will something at one time w^hich w^e did not 
will before. But that is why our own nature must be understood 
as changeable — w^hich we cannot possibly beheve of God. It is 
written that ‘'there are many thoughts in the heart of a man; 
but the counsel of the Lord abideth for ever” the whole pur- 
port of which is that we may understand or believe that the 
counsel of God is unto eternity even as he is eternal, and there- 
fore changeless as he is. And what is said of thoughts may with 
equal truth be said of wills: “there are many wills in the heart 
of a man; but the will of the Lord abideth for ever.” Some have 
sought to avoid speaking of the only-begotten Word as Son of 
the counsel or will of God, by saying that the Word is himself 
the Father’s counsel or will.^^ g^j^t it is better, in my judgment, 
to call him counsel from counsel or will from will, as he is sub- 
stance from substance and wisdom from wisdom: in that way 
we avoid the absurdity, already exposed, of saying that the Son 
makes the Father wise or willing, the Father being without 
counsel or will in his own substance. We may recall the pene- 
trating answer once given to the heretic, who ingeniously 
enquired whether God begot his Son willingly or unwilhngly: 
if one should say, unwillingly, an impossible affliction would be 
imposed upon God; if, wilUngly, the designed conclusion would 
at once follow irresistibly, that the Son is son not of nature but 
of will. To which the wary interlocutor rejoined with another 
question: Is God the Father God willingly or unwilhngly? If 
the reply were unwillingly, again an affliction would be im- 
posed upon God which it were insane to credit; if one should say 
willingly, the answer would be that then God is God by will and 
not by nature. The heretic thus had no resource but silence, 
seeing himself caught by his own question in an inescapable 
dilemma. If indeed any Person in the Trinity is to be termed 
specially the will of God, the name is applicable rather, like 
charity, to the Holy Spirit. For charity is strictly a form of 
willing. 

39. I believe that my treatment of the Holy Spirit in this 
Book has given an exposition of Holy Scripture that may suffice 
to the believer, who knows already that the Holy Spirit is God, 

Prov. 19.21. 

52 The reference may be to Athanasius himself, who answers Arius in this 

way in the passage referred to above, note 90. 

53 See Gregory of Nazianzus, Theological Orations^ III, 6 (ed. Mason). 



l68 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

and is neither of another substance nor lesser than the Father 
and the Son: of which in earlier Books we have demonstrated 
the truth in accordance with the same Scriptures. Concerning 
the creature that God has made, we have done our best to en- 
courage seekers after a reasoned knowledge to perceive the in- 
visible things of him, being understood in the measure possible 
through the things that are made; and especially through the 
rational or intellectual creature that is made in the image of 
God. In it, as in a mirror, they may see, if they are able and as 
they are able, the Trinity of God, in our memory, understand- 
ing and will. Let a man have the lively perception of these three, 
existing naturally in his mind by the divine ordering. Let his 
memory recall, his understanding observe, and his love em- 
brace, the greatness m that mind whereby even the Being that 
is everlasting and changeless can be remembered, viewed and 
desired; and there assuredly he will find an image of the 
supreme Trinity. Upon the remembering, beholding and loving 
of that supreme Trinity, that he may recall it, contemplate it, 
and delight in it, he ought to make all the hfe in him depend. 
But I have also given him such warning as appeared sufficient, 
that this image, made by the Trinity, is altered for the worse by 
its own fault: when therefore he compares it to the divine 
Trinity, he must not suppose it like in all respects; but rather 
discern even in its measure of likeness a great unlikeness also. 

40 (xxi). Of God the Father and God the Son — God the 
Begetter, who has in a manner spoken in his own Word, co- 
eternal with himself, all that belongs to his own substance, and 
that same Word of his, God to whose own substance belongs all, 
in measure neither greater nor less, that is in him whose beget- 
ting of the Word is no lie but perfect truth: these two I have 
endeavoured to trace so far as possible, not as seen face to face, 
but by inference however remote from this likeness in an enigma, 
in the memory and understanding of our human mind. To 
memory we assigned all that we know even though we are not 
thinking of it, and to understanding the impartation of a certain 
definite form to thought. It is by thinking of a truth discovered 
that we are said especially to understand it: and afterwards we 
leave it once more in the memory. But it is in a more recondite 
depth of our memory that we find such truth when first we 
think of it; and so is begotten that inward word which is of no 
language, as a knowledge from knowledge, a vision from vision, 
and an understanding manifest in thought from understanding 
already present in the memory but hidden. Yet thought itself 



THE TRINITY 


169 

must have some kind of memory of itself, else it could not return 
to things left in the memory when one thought is exchanged for 
another. 

41 . Of the Holy Spirit I have shown in this enigma of ours no 
apparent likeness but the will, or the love which is will in fuller 
strength; for the will which exists m us by nature acquires vary- 
ing tones in relation to the objects present to it or meeting it, by 
which we are attracted or offended. But is it possible to say that 
our will, when rightly directed, is ignorant of what to seek or 
shun? If it is not, it must contain a knowledge of its own, such 
as cannot be without memory and understanding. We could 
never accept the suggestion that the charity which “does no 
wrong” is ignorant of what it does. There is both under- 
standing and love in that prime fount of memory, wherein we 
find ready and laid up the truth we can arrive at by the act of 
thought; for both of these we find there, present before we 
thought of them, when in the act of thought we discover our 
own understanding and love of any object.^^ There is both 
memory and love in the understanding which takes form in 
thought — the true word spoken inwardly without any specific 
language, when we say what we know; for our thought can only 
turn Its observation upon anything by remembenng, and will 
only be concerned to do so by loving. Love is that which takes 
the vision which has its seat in memory, and the vision of 
thought which thence receives form, and joins them together 
as parent and offspring; but in the same way unless it possessed 
the knowledge of purposive seeking, which involves memory 
and understanding, it would be ignorant of its own proper 
object. 

42 (xxii). But when these three elements exist in a single 
person such as a man, an objector may make the point that this 
triad of memory, understanding and love, belong not to them- 
selves but to me. What they do is done for me, not for them — or 
rather it is done by me through their means. It is I that remem- 
ber by memory, understand by understanding, love by love. 
When I turn my thought’s eye upon memory, and say within 
myself what I know, begetting out of my knowledge a true word, 
both are mine^ both the knowledge and the word, I know, and I 
speak within myself what I know. And when in the process of 
thought I discover in my memory an existing understanding and 
love for something, an understanding and a love which were 
there already before I thought of them, it is my understanding 
54 I Cor. 13.5. See Bk. X, 19 (xii), 12, 



lyo AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

and 77y> love that I find in my memory, of which I am the sub- 
ject and not they. Again, when thought performs the act of 
remembering and by the act of will returns to what it had left 
in the memory, wills to perceive it as understood and to speak 
it as an inward word, the act of remembering is performed with 
wy; memory, the act of will with will, not its own. And when 
my love remembers and understands what it ought to seek or 
shun, it remembers by memory not its own, and understands 
whatever it loves with understanding, by my understanding and 
not its own. In short: in all three it is I that remember, I that 
understand, I that love, and I am neither memory nor under- 
standing nor love but the possessor of them. They can be 
enumerated by the one person who possesses the three of them 
and is not identical with them. But in the uncompounded sim- 
plicity of the supreme being which is God, though there is one 
God, there are yet three Persons, Father, Son and Holy Spirit. 

43 (xxiii). Thus there is a difference between the reality 
of the Trinity and its image in another subject, the image in 
virtue of which the mind embracing our three elements is itself 
called an image; just as the word “image” is applied both to the 
panel and to the painting on it, the panel being named an 
image because of the picture it supports. The absolute trans- 
cendence of the supreme Trinity defies comparison. A trinity 
of men cannot be called one man; but such is the inseparable 
unity of the divine Trinity, that in it both for our naming and in 
reality there is one God; and the Trinity is not in one God but 
is Itself one God. Again, the image, the man in whom our triad 
is contained, is a single person; the Trinity is three Persons, 
Father in relation to Son, Son in relation to Father, Spirit in 
relation to Father and Son. In our image of the Trinity, the 
human memory, especially as distinguished from that of beasts 
by containing ideas not conveyed to it through the bodily 
senses, offers in its own measure a likeness, however inadequate, 
of the Father. The human understanding which receives form 
therefrom in the effort of thought, when the thing known is 
spoken as an inward word belonging to no language, offers in 
all its disparity a certain hkeness of the Son. The human love, 
which proceeds from knowledge and is a link between memory 
and understanding, as being common to parent and offspring — 
so that it cannot be identified with either — offers in that image 
a likeness, even if an inadequate likeness, of the Holy Spirit. 
But whereas in the image the three do not compose one man but 
96 See Introduction, p. 24. 



THE TRINITY 


17I 

belong to him, in the supreme Trinity whose image it is the 
three do not “belong” to one God but are one God, and the 
Persons are not one but three. And what is marvellously inex- 
pressible, or inexpressibly marvellous, though the image of the 
Trinity is one person and the divine Trinity itself is three, yet 
the Trinity of three Persons is more inseparable than the imaged 
trinity of one. For the divine Trinity by the nature of its divimty 
— or Godhead if the term be preferred — ^is what it is, change- 
lessly and always equal to itself. At no time was it not, or was 
different: at no time will it not be or be different. But the three 
elements contained in the inferior image, though not spatially 
separate (not being corporeal), yet in this present life are quan- 
titatively variable. The fact that material mass is wanting does 
not prevent us seeing in one man more memory than under- 
standing, in another the reverse; while in a third these two may 
be exceeded by love, whether they are equal to one another or 
not. Thus we may find a superiority of any one severally to the 
other two, of two together to any one severally, of any several 
one to any other, of the greater to the less. Even when they shall 
be made whole from all infirmity and equal to one another, the 
being that owes its constancy to grace will not attain equality 
to the being which is essentially changeless. There can be no 
equality between creature and Creator; and the making whole 
from all infirmity will itself be a change. 

44. When the promised vision, “face to face,” has come, we 
shall behold the Trinity — that Trinity which is not only incor- 
poreal but perfectly inseparable and truly changeless — ^far more 
clearly and surely than we now behold its image in ourselves. 
This present vision, through a mirror and in an enigma, as 
vouchsafed to us in this life, belongs not to any who can per- 
ceive in their own mind all that we have here set out by our 
analysis; but to those who see the mind as an image, and so are 
able to achieve a certain relating of what they see to him whose 
image it is: to reach through their actual vision of the image a 
presumptive vision of the onginal which cannot yet be seen face 
to face. The apostle does not say, “We see now a mirror,” but 
“We see now through a mirror.” (xxiv). Those who see the 
mind as it may be seen, and in it that trinity of which I have 
attempted to give a variety of descriptions, yet without believing 
or understanding it to be the image of God: they are seeing a 
mirror, but so far from seeing through the mirror him who is 
now to be seen only in that way, they are unaware that the 
mirror seen is a mirror — ^which is to say, an image. If they knew 



172 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

it;, they might be conscious of the need to seek and in some 
measure even now to see, through this mirror, him whose mir- 
ror it is: their hearts being purified by faith unfeigned, so that 
he who is seen now through a mirror may at last be seen face 
to face. But if they despise the faith that purifies hearts, no 
understanding of the most subtle analysis of our mind’s nature 
can serve but to condemn them, on the testimony of their own 
understanding itself. The failure to reach any firm assurance 
despite all their struggles to understand, can be caused only 
by envelopment in a darkness which is punishment, and the 
burden of a corruptible body which presseth down the soul.^s 
Such evil can have been incurred only by the guilt of sin; and 
the gravity of the evil should be their warning to follow the 
Lamb that taketh away the sin of the world. (xxv). For men 
in his keeping, whose gifts of intellect are far less than theirs, 
when released from the body at this life’s end are clear of all 
claim upon them by the powers of malice: those powers which 
the Lamb whom they slew without debt of sin vanquished by 
the right of his blood before overthrowing them by the might of 
his power. 1 Free from the power of the devil, they have welcome 
from the holy angels, delivered from every evil through the 
Mediator of God and men, the man Christ Jesus for the Holy 
Scriptures old and new are at one, both those that foretell the 
Christ and those that forth- tell him, in knowing *‘no other name 
under heaven whereby men must be saved.” ^ Thus cleansed 
from every taint of corruption, the elect are established in 
peaceful dwelling-places until their bodies be given back to 
them, bodies corruptible no longer, for beauty not for burden- 
ing. For so the perfect goodness and perfect wisdom of the 
Creator has ordained, that the spirit of man in dutiful subjection 
to God should possess a body blessedly subject to itself, and that 
this blessedness should abide for ever. 

45. There without any impediment shall we see the truth and 
enjoy it in perfect clarity and assurance. The mind will not 
pursue a knowledge by reasoning, but in contemplation will dis- 
cern why Holy Spirit is not Son, though he proceed from the 
Father. In that light all such questioning will cease; though 
here its difficulty has been proved so great for me, and doubt- 
less for all who read with care and understanding what I have 
written. In my second Book I promised to discuss the question 
in another place; but whenever I would have pointed out some 

97 I Tim I 5; Acts 15*9. 98 Wisdom 9:15. 99 John 1.29. 

1 Bk. XIII, Argument. 2 I Tim. 2:5. 3 Acts 4.12, 



THE TRINITY 


173 

likeness to that truth in our creaturely being, I found no form 
of words adequately corresponding to such understanding as I 
had reached — though even in that understanding I am aware 
of more endeavour than success. Again, when I found in the 
single person of a man an image of the supreme Trinity, I sought 
to make the likeness more easily apprehended in the sphere of 
things changing, and to display it (particularly in the ninth 
Book) ^ as existing in temporal succession. But, as we have 
shown in this fifteenth Book, our human way of thinking cannot 
fit the three entities in one person to the three divine Persons, 
(xxvi). Moreover, in the supreme Trinity that is God there 
is no temporal successiveness, whereby the question whether 
first the Son is born of the Father and then the Holy Spirit pro- 
ceeds from both, could be answered or even asked. Holy Scrip- 
ture, indeed, calls him Spirit of both. It is he of whom the aposde 
says: ‘‘Because ye are sons, God hath sent the Spirit of his Son 
into your hearts” and it is he of whom the Son himself says: 
“For it IS not ye that speak, but the Spirit of your Father that 
speaketh in you.” ^ And there are many other texts of Scripture 
which prove that he who in the Trinity has the special title of 
Holy Spirit is Spirit both of Father and of Son. The Son again 
says of him, “whom I will send to you from the Father”; and 
elsewhere, “whom the Father will send in my name.”'^ That 
he proceeds from both may be learnt, first from the saying of 
the Son, that he “proceeded! from the Father, ”and secondly, 
in that after his rising from the dead and appearing to his dis- 
ciples, he breathed on them and said, “Receive ye the Holy 
Spirit” 8: so showing that the Spirit proceeds from himseE The 
Spirit is that same “virtue,” which (as we read in the Gospel) 
“went from him and healed them all.” ^ 

46. If one ask why it was that after his resurrection he first 
gave the Holy Spirit on earth and afterwards sent him from 
heaven, my answer would be that by this gEt is shed abroad 
in our hearts the charity whereby we love God and our neigh- 
bour — according to those two commandments on which hang 
all the law and the prophets. To signify this, the Lord Jesus 
gave the Spirit twice: once on earth for the love of neighbour, 
and again from heaven for the love of God. But if the double 
gift of the Holy Spirit should be otherwise explained, at least 

4 The reference to Bk. IX seems to be a slip: Augustine must be thinking 

ofBk XL {C£.BkX, ad Jin) 

5 Gal 4:6. 6 Matt. 10:20, 7 John 15.26, 14 26. 

8 John 15:26, 20:22. 9 Luke 6.19. Rom 5 5, Matt. 22:37 ff. 



174 Augustine: later works 

we may not doubt that it was the same Holy Spirit, given in the 
breathing of Jesus, of whom afterwards he says, '‘Go, baptize 
all nations in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the 
Holy Spirit/’ It is the same Spirit, then, that was also given 
from heaven on the day of Pentecost, ten days after the Lord’s 
ascension into heaven. He who gives the Holy Spirit must 
assuredly be God: nay, how great a God must he be who gives 
God! None of his disciples gave the Holy Spirit: they prayed 
that the Spirit should come upon those on whom they laid their 
hand, but they did not themselves give him. And the Church 
keeps now the same rule in her officers. Even Simon Magus, 
when he offers money to the apostles, does not say, "Give me 
also this power, that I may give the Holy Spirit,” but "that on 
whomsoever I lay my hands, he may receive the Holy Spirit.” 
The words of Scripture preceding were not: "Simon seeing that 
the apostles gave the Holy Spirit,” but: "Simon seeing that by 
the laying on of the apostles’ hands the Holy Spirit was given.” 12 
Accordingly the Lord Jesus himself not only gave as God the 
Holy Spirit, but also received him as man; and therefore he is 
said to be "full of grace,” and "full of the Holy Spirit.”i3 More 
expressly is it written of him in the Acts of the Apostles: "for 
God hath anointed him with the Holy Spirit” — with no visible 
oil, but with the gift of grace, which is signified by the visible 
unction wherewith the Church anoints the baptized. Doubtless, 
Christ’s own anointing with the Holy Spirit was not at that 
time when the Spirit descended upon him as a dove at his bap- 
tism. Then, it was his body that he deigned to represent, his 
Church in which particularly at baptism the Holy Spirit is re- 
ceived. The mystical and invisible anointing of him we must 
recognize at the moment when the Word of God was made 
flesh: that is, when human nature, with no preceding merits of 
good works, was so linked with God the Word in the virgin’s 
womb as to become one person with him.^s Therefore we confess 
him born of the Holy Spirit and the virgin Mary. It would be 
incongruous indeed to suppose that he received the Holy Spirit 
when he was already thirty years old, at which age he was bap- 
tized by John 1 < 5 ; he must have come to baptism, as altogether 
without sin, so not without the Holy Spirit. If it is written of 
John his minister and fore-runner that "he shall be filled with 

n Matt. 28 19. 12 Acts 8* 18 f 

13 John I 14, Luke 4 i. Acts 10 38. 

15 Cf. Enchind , 36 (xi), and esp. De Praed SancLy 30 f. (xv). 

16 Luke 3.21 ff. 



THE TRINITY 


175 

the Holy Spirit even from his mother’s womb” — ^gince though 
engendered by the Father he yet received the Holy Spirit when 
he was formed in the womb — how are we to think or believe 
concermng the man Christ, the very conception of whose flesh 
was not fleshly but spiritual? When it is written of him that he 
received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit and 
poured it forth, is both natures are displayed, the human and the 
divine. He received as man, he poured forth as God. We can 
receive indeed the gift according to our capacity; but pour it 
forth upon others we cannot: for that, we must invoke upon 
them the God by whom it is performed. 

47. We cannot then ask whether the Holy Spirit had already 
proceeded from the Father when the Son was begotten, or had 
not yet so proceeded but upon the begetting of the Son pro- 
ceeded from both. For here nothing takes place in time. When 
we come to deal with the temporal we can suppose will first to 
proceed from the human mind, making a search for what may 
be called an offspring when it is found: with the “getting” or 
“begetting” of this, the act of will is completed, coming to rest 
in its object, so that the pursuit of the will that sought becomes 
the love of the will that enjoys^^; and this love now proceeds 
from both, from the begetting mind and the begotten idea, as 
from parent and offspring. But it is impossible to look for 
parallels to this in a region where there are no temporal begin- 
nings that can reach completion in process of time. Thus, given 
the power to understand the timeless generation of the Son from 
the Father, one must hkewise understand the timeless proces- 
sion of the Holy Spirit from both. Given power to understand, 
in the saying of the Son, “as the Father hath life in himself, so 
hath he given to the Son to have life in himself,” 20 that the 
Father’s gift of hfe is not to a Son previously existing without 
life, but that by this timeless generation the life given by the 
Father in his begetting is co-eternal with the hfe of the Father 
who gave it: one must hkewise understand that as the Holy 
Spirit’s procession from the Father belongs to the Father’s own 
being, so has he given to the Son that the same Holy Spirit 
should proceed from him — ^in both cases timelessly. When it is 
said that the Holy Spirit proceeds from the Father, we under- 
stand that his procession from the Son comes hkewise to the 
Son from the Father. If it is from the Father that the Son has 
all that he has, it must be from the Father that he has the 

17 Luke 1. 15. 7 ® Acts 2.33. 

19 Cf. Bk. XIV, 8 (vi). 20 John 5 26. 



iy6 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

proceeding from him of the Holy Spirit. 21 We must think here of 
no temporal before or after; for here there are no times at all. It 
would be wholly irrational to call the Spirit the Son of both; 
for while the Son receives his being, with no temporal origin and 
no mutability of nature, by generation from the Father, the 
Holy Spirit receives his being, with no temporal origin and no 
mutability of nature, by procession from both. We do not call 
the Holy Spirit begotten, but neither may we presume to call 
him unbegotten, lest the words suggest either two Fathers in the 
divine Trinity, or two Persons underived. The Father alone is 
underived, and therefore alone called unbegotten — not indeed 
m Scripture, but in the common usage of theologians, making 
discourse on such high matter as fitly as they can. 22 The Son is 
begotten from the Father; and the Holy Spirit proceeds, ulti- 
mately from the Father, and by the Father’s gift at no temporal 
interval from both in common. He could be called son of Father 
and of Son, only if both had begotten him — a notion intolerable 
to all sound feeling. Thus he is not begotten of both, but pro- 
ceeds from the one and the other as the Spirit of both. 

48 (xxvii). To distinguish generation from procession in 
the divine Trinity, co-eternal, co-equal, incorporeal, beyond 
all expression changeless and inseparable, is indeed most diffi- 
cult. For readers who find their thought here at the end of its 
tether, it may suffice for the moment to repeat what we have 
said in a sermon addressed to our Christian congregation, and 
afterwards put in writing. I had shown by texts of Holy Scrip- 
ture that the Holy Spirit proceeds from both. ‘Tf then,” I said, 
“the Holy Spirit proceeds both from the Father and from the 
Son, why has the Son said that he ‘proceedeth from the 
Father? 2 3 It can only be after his manner of ascribing that 
which belongs to himself to him from whom he has his own 
being. For example: ‘My doctrine is not mine, but his that sent 
me .’ 24 Here, the doctrine he says is not his own but the 
Father’s must yet be understood as his doctrine. No less must 
we understand in the text before quoted, where he says that the 
Spirit ‘proceedeth from the Father’ (not ‘proceedeth not from 
me’), that the Spirit proceeds also from himself. The Son is 

21 Cf above, (xvii) and n. 

22 In particular, the Axian theologians, profiting from the confusion between 
the words agennetos (unbegotten) and agemtos (uncreated or eternal), had 
attempted to make ‘‘unbegottenness” the essence of Deity itself, whence 
they could argue that he who is “begotten” is not very God. See Athana- 
sius, De Decretis^ 28 ff. 

23 John 15*26. 


24 John 7:16. 



THE TRINITY 


177 

God from God; and he from whom is derived the Godhead of 
the Son is the same from whom is derived the Holy Spirit’s 
proceeding from the Son. So it is from the Father that the Holy 
Spirit has his procession from the Son, even as he proceeds from 
the Father. ^ And this may enable us to understand, so far as 
understanding is possible for men like us, why the Holy Spirit 
is not called begotten, but is said to proceed. For if he also were 
called Son, he must be son of both the other Persons — ^which 
would be altogether irrational. A son can be son of two only if 
they be father and mother; and between God the Father and 
God the Son no relation of the kind is even to be thought of. 
Indeed no human son proceeds at one and the same time from 
father and mother: he does not proceed from the mother when 
he proceeds from father into mother, and he does not proceed 
from the father at the time of his proceeding from the mother 
into visible existence. Whereas the Holy Spirit does not proceed 
from the Father into the Son, and then from the Son to sanctify 
the creature: he proceeds at once from both, although his pro- 
ceeding from the Son as from the Father is the Father’s gift to 
the Son. We cannot say that while the Father is life and the Son 
is life, the Holy Spirit is not life. As, then, the Father who has 
life in himself has given to the Son to have life in himself, so 
has he given to the Son that life should proceed from him even 
as it proceeds from himself.” 25 1 insert this passage from a ser- 
mon into the present Book: it is addressed of course to the faith- 
ful and not to unbelievers. 

49. Unbelievers indeed may lack the power to contemplate 
God’s image in them, and to see the reality of the three elements 
in their own mind, which are three not as three persons but as all 
pertaining to the one person of a man. Then they had best be- 
lieve what the holy Books contain concerning the supreme 
Trinity that is God, instead of demanding for themselves a per- 
fectly clear and rational account such as weak and sluggish 
human minds cannot take in. By all means, once they have an 
unshakable belief in the truth of Holy Scripture’s witness, let 
them go on by prayer and enquiry and right living to the pur- 
suit of understanding — ^which means the seeing with the mind 
(so far as seeing is possible) of what is firmly held by faith. Who 
should forbid them? Who indeed would not encourage them to 
do so? But if they suppose that the reality must be denied be- 
cause their minds are too blind to perceive it, then the blind 
from birth may with equal right deny the existence of the sun. 

25 In Jo, Ev. XCIX, 8 f. Gf. above, 29 (xvu) n. 



AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


178 

The light shineth in darkness: if the darkness comprehend it 
not^^fi let those who are darkness first become enlightened by 
the gift of God into believing, and so begin in comparison with 
the unbelieving world to be light. Upon that foundation they 
may be built up to see what they believe, and in due course gain 
the power of sight. There are certain matters of belief, the sight 
of which is no longer possible. Christ can never again be seen 
upon the cross. But without belief in that which once happened 
and was seen, though there can be no expectation of its hap- 
pening or being seen again, we can never reach that vision of 
the Christ which shall be without end. As for such discernment 
as is possible for the understanding of the supreme, ineffable, 
immaterial and changeless being of God: there is no field 
wherein the human mind can better train its insight, under the 
guidance of the rule of faith, than in that possession of human 
nature which is better than anything in the beasts, and better 
than any other part of the human soul, namely the mind itself. 
To it has been granted a certain vision of things invisible; it is 
the authority, raised upon the seat of honour in its inner cham- 
ber, for whose judgment the bodily senses deliver all their mes- 
sages; above it there is none to whose ruKng it is subject, save 
God. 

50. In all this long discourse, I dare not claim to have said 
anything worthy of the unspeakable greatness of the supreme 
Trinity. I confess rather that "Trom myself his knowledge has 
become wonderful: its strength is shown and I cannot attain 
unto it.” 27 And thou, soul of mine, where in all this dost thou 
find thyself, where best thou, where standest thou, waiting for 
him who has shown mercy upon all thine iniquities to heal all 
thy sicknesses? 28 Doubtless thou seest thyself in that inn, 
whither the Samaritan brought him that was found half dead 
from the many wounds laid on him by the robbers. Yet thou 
hast seen many truths, not with the eyes that see the hues of 
bodily things, but with those for which the Psalmist made his 
prayer: “Let mine eyes look upon equity.” 29 Thou hast seen 
many truths indeed, and not confused them with that Light 
that enabled thee to see them. Lift thine eyes to the Light itself 
and fix them upon it, if thou canst.^o Then only shalt thou see 
the difference of the begetting of God’s Word from the proces- 
sion of God’s Gift: wherefore the only-begotten Son has said 
that the Holy Spirit proceeds from the Father, and is not be- 

26 John 1:5. 27 Ps. 139 6. 28 Ps. 103:3. 

29 Ps. 17.2, 30 Cf. Bk. VIII, 3 (li). 



THE TRINITY 


179 

gotten of him so as to be his brother* Being a certain consub- 
stantial communion between Father and Son, the Spirit is 
called the Spirit of both, never the son of both. But to perceive 
this plainly and clearly, thou art not able to keep thine eye 
fixed firmly: I know thou art not able. I speak truth to myself, 
I know what exceeds my power. Yet the light itself displays to 
thee those three elements in thyself, wherein thou mayest recog- 
nize the image of the supreme Trinity, whom thou hast not 
yet the strength to contemplate with unwavering eyes. The light 
itself shows thee that a true word is in thee, when it is begotten 
of thy knowledge, that is, when we say what we know; though 
it be with no people’s tongue that we utter or think a sound with 
meaning, but our thought receives a form from the object of our 
knowledge. In the view of the thinker arises an image nearly 
alike to that knowledge which memory contained, while the 
will or love unites the two to one another, as parent and off' 
spring. That will proceeds from knowledge, for no one wills a 
thing of whose being or nature he is altogether ignorant; yet it 
is not an image of knowledge. And thus Acre is a suggestion in 
this mental reality of the difference between begetting and pro- 
ceeding, inasmuch as to view in thought is not the same as to 
pursue or to enjoy with the will. So much is to be perceived and 
discerned by him who is able. And thou too hast been able to 
perceive it, although thou couldst not and canst not set forth in 
adequate expression that truth which through the mists of 
material similitudes, that never cease to invade men’s thinking, 
thou didst hardly see. Yet the hght which is not thyself shows 
thee also that the immaterial hkenesses of material things are 
wholly other than the reality which our understanding contem- 
plates when they are rejected. This and the like certainties are 
manifested by that light to thine inward eye. Is there any 
reason why thou canst not behold the hght itself with a gaze un- 
wavering, but thine own infirmity? And what has made thee 
infirm but thine own iniquity? Therefore there is none that 
can heal all thy sicknesses, but he that has mercy upon aU thine 
iniquities. So were it better to bring this Book at last to an end, 
not with argument but with prayer. 

51 (xxviii). O Lord our God, we believe in thee. Father, 
Son, and Holy Spirit. If thou wert not Trinity, the Truth w^ould 
not have said: ‘‘Go ye, baptize all nations in the name of the 
Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit.” Nor wouldst 
thou. Lord God, have commanded us to be baptized in the 
31 Gf. Bk. VIII, 3 (11). 32 Matt. 28: 19. 



i8o 


AUGUSTINE; LATER WORKS 


name of one who was not Lord and God. Yet, Trinity as thou 
art, wert thou not one Lord God, the divine word would not 
have said: ‘‘Hear, O Israel, the Lord thy God is one God,’’ 33 
Moreover, if thou wert thyself God the Father, and thyself 
Jesus Christ, the Son, thy Word, and the Holy Spirit, his Gift 
and thine, we should not read in the book of truth that “God 
sent his Son” 34- nor wouldst thou, the only-begotten one, have 
said of the Holy Spirit: “whom the Father shall send in my 
name,” and “whom I will send to you from the Father.” 35 

Guiding the effort of my mind by this rule of faith, I have 
sought thee with all my power, with all the power thou hast 
created in me: I have desired greatly to see with my under- 
standing that which I have beheved; I have made much dis- 
course, and much toil therein. O Lord my God, my one hope, 
hear me, that weariness may not lessen my will to seek thee, 
that I may seek thy face evermore with eager heart. Do thou 
give strength to seek thee, as thou hast made me to find thee, 
and given hope of finding thee ever more and more. My 
strength and my weakness are in thy hands: preserve the one, 
and remedy the other. In thy hands are my knowledge and my 
ignorance: where thou hast opened to me, receive my entering 
in; where thou hast shut, open to my knocking. Let me re- 
member thee, understand thee, love thee: increase in me all 
these, until thou restore me to thy perfect pattern. 

I know that it is written: “In much speaking thou shalt not 
escape sm.” 3^ Would that all my speaking were the preaching 
of thy word and the praise of thee! Then should I not only 
escape sin, how much soever I spoke, but gain desert of good- 
ness. For it could not have been sin that a man blessed of thee 
enjoined upon his own son in the faith, to whom he wrote: 
“Preach the word, be instant in season, out of season.” 37 In him 
who neither in season nor out of season kept back thy word, none 
can say there was not much speaking. And yet it was not much, 
when so much was needful. Deliver me, O God, from the 
plague of much speaking within mine own soul, a soul miserable 
in thy sight and fleeing unto thy mercy. For my thoughts are 
not always silent, though I keep silence from words. From this 
much speaking I would not ask for deliverance, if my thought 
were only such as should please thee. But my thoughts are 

33 Deut 6 4. 

33 <» i e. if there were no distinction between the Persons. 

34 Gal 4.4, John 3* 17, 35 John 14*26; 15-26. 

35 Prov. 10: 19. 37 II Tim. 4:2. 



THE TRINITY 


l8l 

many, thoughts such as thou knowest, vain as thou knowest the 
thoughts of men to be. Grant me not to give way to them, but to 
reject them even when they delight me, and not to dwell upon 
them hke a man falling asleep. Let them not have such power 
with me that aught of my working proceed from them; but let 
my at least and my conscience be kept safe from them by 
thy safe-guarding. A wise man, in that book of his we name 
Ecclesiasticus, spoke thus concermng thee: “We speak many 
things, and yet attain not: and the whole consummation of our 
discourses is himself.” When therefore we shall have attained 
to thee, all those many things which we speak, and attain not, 
cease: one shalt thou abide, all things in all^®; one shall 
we name thee without end, praising thee with one single voice, 
we ourselves also made one in thee. O Lord, one God, God the 
Trimty, whatsoever I have said in these Books that comes of 
thy prompting, may thy people acknowledge it: for what I have 
said that comes only of myself, I ask of thee and of thy people 
pardon. 

38 Ecclesiasticus 43.27. I Cor. 15:28. 



The Spirit and the Letter 

INTRODUCTION 

P ELAGIANISM BEGAN AS A PROTEST AGAINST THE 

decay of Christian morals. In the last years of the fourth 
century, the proscription of paganism by the edicts of Theo- 
dosius brought into the Church large numbers of “converts” 
whose Christianity can hardly have gone deeper than accept- 
ance of baptism and profession of the name. There was enough 
in the Church’s official teaching upon the efficacy of the sacra- 
ments to encourage such nominal Christians in the belief that 
membership of the Church was all that was necessary for salva- 
tion. The growth and spread of monasticism, itself in great part a 
reaction against the worldhness of churchmen, had made familiar 
the notion of a double standard of morality: for those who 
would be “perfect,” strict compliance with the severest exhorta- 
tions of the Gospels, for the rest, a life of compromise in varying 
degrees. Moreover, in the Western Church human nature had 
for long been painted m darker colours than in the Eastern, 
with a greater stress upon the lasting consequences of the Fall. 
Men had learnt to acknowledge the universahty of sin and the 
weakness of the human will as facts which compelled rehance 
upon those means of salvation which the Church provided. 

We know nothing for certain about the early life of Pelagius. 
But he had certainly been in Rome for twenty years, perhaps 
for thirty, when the onset of Alaric and the Goths in 410 drove 
him with the crowd of refugees first to Africa and then to the 
East. He had come to Rome, likely enough, from his native 
Britain as a young man seeking to prepare himself for a civil 
career; but he had soon found his vocation, not in the pnest- 
hood nor in the monastery (though he was often called a 
“monk”), but in the exercise of a layman’s mission to the upper 



THE SPIRIT AND THE LETTER 183 

circles of the more or less Christianized Roman society of the day. 
He saw himself called to ‘‘stop the rot”— to restore the slackened 
vigour of Christian life by recalhng the Roman to his ancient 
ideal of manliness (virtus), and the Chnstian to the inflexible 
demands of Christ. We know that the first impression of Pela- 
gius which Augustine derived from the reading of his book On 
Human Nature was that of “a man fired with a burning indigna- 
tion against those who instead of laying the blame for their sins 
upon their human wills put it upon their natural constitution 
as men, and seek to make that nature their excuse.” i 

The relipon of Pelagius was firmly based upon two axioms: 
that God is just, and that man is responsible — which means 
free. He thought of the divine justice as the character of a Law- 
giver who is also Judge, who rewards and pumshes men accord- 
ing to their deeds. In God’s justice there can be no respect of 
persons: justice forbids the showing favour [gratia) to one man 
rather than another. A just God can give an unfair start to no- 
one. And he can command nothing which any man is unable 
to perform: the existence of a divine command necessarily im- 
plies ability in all to whom it is given to obey it. All men can 
keep the commandments of God “if they will.” But that is to 
say that nothing counts for God’s judgment of the individual 
but his own responsible actions. God will distribute his rewards 
and his punishments stricdy according to merit, and merit is 
what each man earns by what he does. It is open to all Christians 
without exception to set themselves, by a life in accordance 
with the Gospel ideal of poverty, chastity, and well-doing, to 
earn the supreme rewards which only such a hfe can win. And 
if it is open to all, it is incumbent upon all. 

A pastoral activity such as that of Pelagius, inspired by this 
rigid moralism, could no doubt be pursued for a time without 
compelling attention to its theological implications. But it could 
not long avoid a clash with the sacramental and devotional 
practice of the Church. It was too late in the day to open a cam- 
paign against infant baptism, and the Pelagians did not attempt 
it. But the Church knew one and only one baptism ‘Tor the re- 
mission of sins”: the form of the sacrament was the same for 
infants as for adults. If there is no guilt but where there has been 
responsible action, how can the infant need forgiveness? and if 
he needs no forgiveness, has Christ not died for him? Again, the 
Pelagian homiletic insisted that sinlessness (impeccantia) was a 
conch tion achievable by any man in this hfe. Yet the universahty 
1 De Natura et Gratia^ i (i). 



184 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

of sin was not only a fact asserted by unequivocal texts of 
Scripture (Ps. 143:2; Rom* 3:23; I John i : 8) : it was implied by 
the petition for forgiveness in the Lord’s Prayer, which every 
Christian however saintly must repeat all his days. 

It was therefore on these two points — the significance of in- 
fant baptism, and the possibility of avoiding sin — that Pelagian- 
ism was first challenged. Pelagius himself seems to have been 
aware of the danger and anxious to avoid a conflict. It was the 
common Christian tradition in East and West alike that Adam’s 
transgression involved the whole human race in a predicament 
from which salvation is through Christ alone. But the Greek 
Fathers in general thought of this predicament as mortality^ and 
they were not exercised by the question of fallen man’s status 
as a moral agent — the effect of the Fall upon man’s capacity to 
do right. They followed Origen m holding that self-determina- 
tion is an essential characteristic of the created spirit: fallen man 
retains that power of deliberate choice without which there can 
be neither virtue nor vice. And this had been maintained in the 
West, both by Tertullian as the basis of his doctrine of merit, and 
later by Ambrose. But Tertullian had held the theory known as 
Traducianism, according to which every child derives both soul 
and body from his parents, and therefore inherits a nature in 
which both soul and body suffer from corruption. Tertullian’s 
Traducianism, however, regarded the soul itself as material, and 
was therefore unacceptable to later Latin Fathers in the form 
he had given it. The alternative theory of the soul’s origin was 
Creationism, as generally held by the Greeks: viz, that every 
soul is created at birth by the immediate act of God. But this 
view made it difficult to attach any “original defect” [vitium 
onginis) to the soul, and so favoured the tendency, which in fact 
displayed itself in Alexandrian theology, to find the source of 
moral evil in the flesh. In the third century, Origen in Palestine 
and Cyprian in Africa had suggested in similar though vague 
terms that the baptism of infants implies some kind of defile- 
ment which is inseparable from the process of natural birth. 
Here there was serious danger of playing into the hands of 
Manichaeanism — a danger which the Pelagians were not slow 
to detect and exploit. 

The matter was bound up with the exegesis of Romans 5. 
The argument of Paul in that chapter is best interpreted 
as teaching not a physical inheritance of sin but a mystical 
solidarity of mankind “in Adam” analogous to the unity of 
Christians “in Christ.” On these lines Ambrose, Bishop of Milan 



THE SPIRIT AND THE LETTER 185 

when Pelagius settled in Rome, taught that “we have all sinned 
in the first man,” that “Adam is in each one of us,” that “in 
Adam I fell, and in him I have incurred guilt.” At Rome, Pela- 
gius had written his Commentary on the Epistles of SL Paul^ in 
which he takes the language of Romans 5 to mean simply that 
“those who sin as Adam did, die in hke manner,” i.e., that both 
sin and the spiritual (not physical) death which is its conse- 
quence come from the following of Adam’s example. Neverthe- 
less, he had been careful (as Augustine noted when the Com- 
mentary first came into his hands) not to associate himself with 
the objections which he adduces, on Rom. 5: 15, of “those who 
oppose the Traducianist doctrine”; though he added that the 
same school of thought, on the Creationist theory, will urge that 
“it is unjust that a soul born to-day and not derived from the 
substance {massa) of Adam, should bear the ancient sin of 
another,” and that “reason forbids that God who remits a 
man’s own sins should impute to him another’s.” 2 This last 
observation recalls a well-^own phrase of Cyprian’s, who in 
discussing infant baptism had said that the infant “receives re- 
mission not of his own but of another’s sins.” 2 

It was not Pelagius himself, but his less wary disciple Caeles- 
tius, whose activities provoked the first official condemnation of 
Pelagian doctrine. He had come to Africa hke his master as a 
refugee from Rome in 410; and he was summoned before a 
synod of bishops at Carthage (at which Augustine was not pre- 
sent) to condemn a number of propositions attributed to him, of 
which the most important were (i) that Adam’s sin had injured 
no-one but himself, (2) that infants come into the world in the 
same state of innocence as belonged to Adam before his fall, 
(3) that even before the coining of Christ there had been men 
whose lives were sinless (so that a fortiori under the Christian 
dispensation the avoidance of sin is no impossible ideal). Of 
Caelestius’s defence we know only that he claimed (as he 
reasonably might) that the Traducianist theory of the trans- 
mission of sin was not Catholic dogma, and that he admitted the 
propriety of infant baptism. It is probable that he explained 
this admission by interpreting the sacrament as one of adoption 
into Christ’s Sonship, and by making a distinction between 
“eternal life” and the “kingdom of heaven”: saying that the 
unbaptized infant dying without actual sin is not excluded from 

2 See the text in Souter’s edition of Pelagius’s ExpostUons of Ha/rteen 
Epistles of SL Paul, 

3 Cypnan, Ep, LXIV, 5. 



i86 


Augustine: later works 


eternal life, whereas Christian baptism (in accordance with 
John 3:5) is necessary for entry into the ‘‘kingdom.” ^ 

Caelestius was condemned, and left Africa for the East. But 
the dissemination of his ideas had caused so much stir in Africa 
that Marcellinus, the imperial legate who presided in 41 1 at the 
great conference with the Donatists, wrote to consult Augustine, 
with whom he was intimate, on the questions at issue. Augustine, 
though at the moment much exercised by the troublesome after- 
math of the conference, replied with the first of his anti- 
Pelagian works — On the Deserts and Remission of Sins. The first 
Book deals with the bearing of the Church’s baptismal practice 
on the doctrine of “original sin,” dismisses the attempted dis- 
tinction between eternal life and the kingdom of God, and in- 
sists that the text of Rom. 5:12 can only mean that sin and 
death pass from Adam to his descendants “by propagation,” 
not “by imitation.” “As he in whom all are made alive not only 
offered himself as a pattern of righteousness to be imitated, but 
also gives to the faithful that altogether hidden grace of his 
Spirit, which he pours unseen even into infants: so he in whom 
aU die not only is the example imitated by those who voluntarily 
transgress the commandment of God, but also has infected in 
himself with the hidden corruption of his carnal desire all those 
who come of his seed.” ^ This passage makes it clear enough 
that Augustine sees the Pauline contrast between Adam and 
Christ as one between flesh and spirit: in his view, the mystery 
of original sin is bound up with physical heredity, while the 
mystery of grace is purely spiritual, though sacramentally 
conveyed. 

The subject of the second Book is the Pelagian doctrine 
of “sinlessness.” Augustine begins by admitting that we 
cannot deny the power of God to bring a man into a “state of 
grace” in which he should become altogether free from sin; but 
he thinks that the testimony of Scripture and of the confessions 
of holy men tends to show that no-one has in fact reached such 
a condition. He next asks. Why should this be so? “If it be pos- 
sible, divine grace lending its aid to the human will, for men to 
be without sin, the question may be put. Why then are they not? 
A very simple and true answer would be. Because they have 
not the will. If I am asked. But why have they not? — ^we shall 
need longer to make that plain. I may however, without pre- 
judice to more careful enquiry, say shortly this: Men will not do 

4 See Augustine, Be Peccato Originally 3 (111) (iv). 

5 Be Pecc, Mer,y I, 10 (ix). 



THE SPIRIT AND THE LETTER 187 

what is right, either because the right is hidden from them, or 
because they find no delight in it. For the strength of our will to 
anything is proportionate to the assurance of our knowledge of 
its goodness, and to the warmth of our dehght in it. Thus ignor- 
ance and infirmity are failings which hinder the will from being 
moved to perform a good action or to abstain firom a bad one. 
But that what was hidden may become clear, what delighted 
not may become sweet — this belongs to the grace of God which 
aids the wills of men. If they lack that aid, the cause lies no less 
in themselves and not in God, whether they be predestined for 
damnation because of the wickedness of pride, or for judgment 
and instruction against their pride, if they be children of 
mercy.” ® This “short answer” gives us the essence of Augus- 
tinianism. Augustine could not know how much “longer” he 
would need to account for men’s unwillingness to do the right. 
But what he has said here not only armounces the theme which 
he was to develop in The Spirit and the Letter: it lays down the 
criterion by which he was always to test the claim of Pelagians 
that in their teaching the grace of God was upheld and not 
denied. 

Marcellinus himself was the first to ask for a “longer” ex- 
planation. He thought it paradoxical to concede, as Augustine 
did, that the achievement of “sinlessness” was a theoretical 
possibility, and yet to deny not only that it ever has been 
achieved, but that there either has been or ever can be any in- 
stance of a completely sinless human life, except in the case of 
Christ himself. Augustine responded to his request for a solution 
of this difficulty by writing within the year (412) his treatise on 
The Spirit and the Letter, which is occupied entirely with an ex- 
position of the doctrine of Grace, based on an exegesis of Paul’s 
teachmg in the Epistle to the Romans, with the saying of 
II Cor. 3:6 — “the letter kiUeth, but the Spirit giveth life” — as 
text. Augustine agrees with the comment of Pelagius on this 
text, that the opposition of “letter” and “spirit” is not that of 
literal and allegorical (or “spiritual”) interpretation of Scrip- 
ture. But whereas Pelagius on Rom. 3:28 had taken the 
“works of the law,” “apart from” which “a man is justified by 
faith,” to mean the external ceremonies of circumcision. Sab- 
bath, etc., Augustine shows convincingly that the whole argu- 
ment of the Epistle is concerned with the law as a system of 
ethical precepts which can do nothing but convince of sin, and 
with grace as the divinely given power to fulfil these same 
< De Pecc Mer., II, a6 (xvii). 



l88 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

precepts: ‘‘what is enjoined under the law of works, is granted 
under the law of faith” (§ 22). “The divine assistance for the 
working of righteousness consists, not in God’s gift of the Law, 
full as It is of good and holy commands, but in that our will 
itself, without which we cannot do the good, is aided and up- 
lifted by the imparting of the Spirit of grace” (§20). “Grasp 
this clear difference between the old covenant and the new: 
that there the law is written upon tables, here upon hearts, so 
that the fear imposed by the first from without becomes the de- 
light inspired by the second from within, and he whom the 
letter that killeth there made a transgressor, is here made a 
lover by the Spirit that giveth life. Then you can no longer say 
that God assists us in the working of righteousness, and works in 
us both to will and to do according to his good pleasure, inas- 
much as he makes us hear with the outward sense the command- 
ments of righteousness. No, it is because he gives increase within 
us, by the shedding abroad of charity in our hearts through the 
Holy Spirit which is given us” (§ 42). 

In all the long series of Augustine’s anti-Pelagian writings, 
there is none that can compare with The Spirit and the Letter for 
calm and confident grasp of Christian principles. Here Augus- 
tine is not debating: there is none of the wearisome eristic of the 
later treatises. He is going straight to the fountainhead of all 
Christian faith in the grace of God, and triumphantly vindicat- 
ing that faith with an understanding of Paul more profound 
than any shown by earlier interpreters. Augustine’s exegesis is 
often mistaken in detail, and we know now that the Pauline 
“Justification” is not the equivalent, as he thought it was, of 
“being made righteous.” It remains true to-day that if we 
would penetrate beneath the surface of language and logical 
form to the vital springs of Paul’s religion, we shall hardly find 
a better guide than this httle book. 

For our understanding of Augustine himself, however, a 
special interest attaches to the latter part of the work, in which, 
having completed his exposition of Paul, he turns to examine 
two objections to the doctrine of grace which has been set forth. 

(i) If grace alone enables men to fulfil the law, what is to 
be said of good works outside the Gospel and the Church? Paul 
speaks in Rom. 2:14 of “Gentiles which have not the law, 
doing by nature the things contained in the law.” Now Augus- 
tine cannot surrender his conviction that saving grace is the 
grace of our Lord Jesus Christ. He begins by suggesting that 
Paul is here referring to Gentile Christians\ but he is not qmte 



THE SPIRIT AND THE LETTER 189 

happy about this (clearly mistaken) interpretation, and expects 
it to be disputed. There is, he says, a possible alternative. The 
image of God belongs to the created nature of humanity, and it 
is ineffaceable however obscured by sin. Its survival may en- 
able even the heathen to recognize and at least in part to per- 
form the commandments of God. For what is written upon the 
heart in the new covenant is still the same law which “was 
not altogether effaced by growing old.’’ But he will not admit 
that such “natural” righteousness can be inspired by the. true 
love of God which is the gift of grace. It cannot bring the salva- 
tion which is through grace alone: it can only avail, as no doubt 
it will in God’s justice avail, for mitigation of punishment. 
Augustine could have reached no other conclusion without 
allowing the truth of one of the propositions charged against 
Gaelestius, viz., “that the law admits to the Kingdom of 
Heaven as well as the gospel.” With the general tradition of the 
Church, he believed that the saints of the Old Testament were 
not excluded from salvation, but this could only be because in 
the light of prophecy they had believed in the Christ who was 
to come. 

(2) The second objection is one which is both more funda- 
mental in itself and more important for the controversy. Does 
not the operation of grace, so conceived, violate human free- 
dom? Augustine’s answer is confused by his carelessness in the 
use of terms. He starts from the expression liberum arbitrium, 
usually translated “free will,” but more properly “free choice” 
or “free decision”; and he maintains that it is something which 
has to be conferred by grace. In the order or process of salvation, 
faith comes first, then grace which heals the sick soul, then the 
liberum arbitrium which the healing makes possible, and then the 
love of righteousness which fulfils the law. Here liberum arbitrium 
is said not to exist before the work of grace: it is the Christian 
freedom which Augustine generally calls “hberty.” But he 
proceeds to ask in what sense the faith with which the whole 
series begins can be said to be “in our power”; and he answers 
that the faith in God which is belief in his promises must like 
all belief be a voluntary act, and therefore is in our power be- 
cause we “perform it if we will.” Then arises the question, 
Whence comes the will to believe? From God’s gift, or from 
the liberum arbitrium which is “implanted in us by nature”? 
And now this liberum arbitrium is described as a “neutral power,” 
“conferred upon the rational soul in the way of nature” by God’s 
creative act, and therefore itself (as Pelagius also insisted) the 



igo AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

gift of God. God will judge men according to their use of this 
gift. But the good use of liberum arbitrium, which shows itself in 
the will to believe, depends upon God’s “calling” in the form 
of those presentations or “suasions” which come to us by his 
providence in our day-to-day experience. Sixteen years earlier, 
in his answer to the Questions of Simpliaanus written before he 
knew anything of Pelagius, he had developed this idea of the 
calling of God. “We are enjoined to believe, in order that we 
may receive the gift of the Holy Spirit and the power to do good 
works through love. But who can believe, unless he be touched 
by some kind of calling, some testifying of the truth? Who has 
it in his own power to bring it about that his mind receive such 
impressions as may move his will to faith?” 7 In The Spirit and 
the Letter^ the consent to this calling is said to “belong to our own 
will” — but only as the act of acceptance: the crucial text, 
“What hast thou which thou hast not received?” is still upheld, 
and God is said to “work in us the will to believe.” 

The later history of the Pelagian controversy does not con- 
cern us here. But it is worth while to examine the attempts of 
Pelagius, during the years that passed between 412 and his final 
condemnation m 418, to defend himself against the charge of 
making the grace of God of none effect. In 415 his treatise On 
came into Augustine’s hands, and Augustine quotes 
freely from it in his book On Nature and Grace^ written in that 
year. Pelagius had begun by arguing for the possibility of being 
without sin — which (as we have seen) Augustine was prepared 
to allow. Pelagius went on to deny that sin could “weaken” or 
“alter” nature, and to assert that sin cannot be a personal action 
unless it is voluntary, which implies that it is avoidable. “I shall 
be told,” he said, “that many are disturbed at my appearing to 
maintain a man’s ability to be without sin, as though it did not 
come through the grace of God.” And he exclaims indignantly 
that he has insisted upon the derivation of this very ability from 
God as the author of nature. That we are “able not to sin” is 
not, he says, a matter of will or choice {arbitrium) at all: it is a 
“natural necessity.” We cannot be without the ability to avoid 
sin: that is how God has made us.^ 

In this same year (415) Pelagius had been acquitted of heresy 
by a synod of Palestinian Bishops. Confronted with statements 
of Caelestius to the effect that “the grace and help of God is not 
given for particular actions, but consists in the power of free 
choice, or in law and teaching,” and that “God’s grace is given 
7 De Div. Qiiaest. ad SimpL, I, 21. ^ De NaU et Grat^ 52 ff. 



THE SPIRIT AND THE LETTER I9I 

according to our deserts, since if he gave it to sinners he must 
appear to be unjust,” Pelagius had answered: have never 

held such views, and I anathematize anyone who may hold 
them.” ^ Whether this disclaimer was entirely sincere it is diffi- 
cult to say. But in the long profession of orthodoxy which he 
submitted to the pope in 417, there were only a dozen words on 
the question of grace: ' Vlule confessing the reality of free choice, 
we maintain that we always have need of the help of God.” 10, 
What he meant by the '‘help of God,” he had made clear 
enough in the work On Freedom of Choice^ composed after his 
acquittal by the Palestinian Synod, from which we have extracts 
in Augustine’s treatise On the Grace of Chrut^ written in 418 after 
the final condemnation of the heresy. Pelagius had analysed 
moral activity into (i) ability, (2) will, and (3) performance, 
ascribing the first to God’s gift and the two latter to "our- 
selves.” "It is God,” he wrote, "who has given us the ability 
to will and to work, and by the help of his grace continually 
assists this ability itself”; and such assistance is given "through 
doctrine and revelation,” whereby God "opens the eyes of the 
heart, shows what is to come, uncovers the wiles of the devil, and 
illuminates us with the gift of heavenly grace.” God "works in 
us to will” by the promise of reward, by the revelation of wis- 
dom, and by all manner of good counsel. "That we are able to 
do what is good, comes of him who gave us this ability: that we 
do good, belongs to ourselves.” It is Ghnst "who absolves be- 
hevers from all their sins through baptism, and then encourages 
them to perfect holiness by the imitation of himself, and over- 
comes the force of evil habit by his example of aU virtues.” 

The "divine aid” thus recognized by Pelagius appears to 
coincide closely enough with those presentations or "suasions,” 
experienced by the individual in the course of his hfe, in which 
Augustine saw the calling of God, and which he commonly 
describes as the divine "preparation” of the will. If Augustine 
had maintained, consistently and unambiguously, that the will’s 
"consent” to this calling must be a genuinely free act of personal 
decision, the cleavage between him and Pelagius would have 
been less complete: indeed his position would have superficially 
resembled what was later known as Semi-Pelagianism — the 
doctrine that men have power to make the initial act of faith 

9 De Gest Pelag , 30 (xiv). 

10 The Libellus Fidei is given in the Appendix to Tom. X of Augustme’s 
works in the Benedictine edition, 
u De Grot Ckristi, 7, 8, ii, 26, 43. 



102 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

‘‘of themselves.” He was aware that he himself had begun by 
holding a similar doctrine, and he dated his realization that 
faith is wholly the gift of God from that closer study of the 
Epistle to the Romans to which he had been drawn at the 
beginning of his episcopate. Yet in The Spirit and the Letter^ as we 
have seen, he was still able to say that the consent of the will to 
the calling of God is “our own”; and he finds no occasion to 
correct this statement in the Retractations^ in which the change in 
his views is frankly admitted. But in the work On Grace and Free 
Choice^ written in 426 just before the Retractations were finished, 
he had declared roundly that “God brings about our willing 
Without us.^^ He seems never to have perceived that faith is 
the will’s consent or response to the calling of God, and that this 
consent is not always once for all, but may need continually to 
be renewed. The effect of the Pelagian controversy was to 
sharpen the dilemma — either God’s work or ours. That the 
dilemma is false, Augustine himself was able even in his old 
age to recognize on occasion. In his earliest attempt to deal with 
problems arising from the Epistle to the Romans, he had writ- 
ten: “That we believe, is our own act: that we work what is 
good, belongs to him who gives the Holy Spirit to them that 
believe.” He comments in the Retractations (1, 23) : “I should not 
have said that, if I had known then that faith itself is found 
among the gifts of God, which are given in the same Spirit. 
Both therefore [faith and works] are ours, through the choice 
{arbitnum) of our will, and yet both are given through the Spirit 
of faith and charity.” That was to fall back upon the true para- 
dox of grace as Paul expressed it: “Crucified with Christ, I live: 
yet not I, but Christ liveth in me.” “He that is joined unto the 
Lord, is one Spirit.” 

There lies the ultimate difference between Pelagian and 
Augustinian religion. The theology of Pelagius was the theology 
of deism: his ethics were the ethics of natuialism. There was no 
room in his version of Christianity for “Christ in you, the hope 
of glory,” nor for the real indwelling of the Holy Spirit in the 
believer. Augustine saw that in such a version the Gospel has 
disappeared; and we owe it to him that the Church has not 
parted company with Paul. 

12 JOe Grat. et Lib. Arb,^ 33 (xvii). 



The Spirit and the Letter 

ARGUMENT 

[The possibiUty of moral perfection for a man in this life may 
reasonably be allowed, even if Christ be the only instance of it. 
For God could do many thmgs which he does not do; and human 
righteousness is itself a divine work (§§ 1-3). 

What we cannot admit is that the human wiU is sufficient 
of itself to reach, or even to move towards, such perfection. 
For that, it must be divinely aided — ^and that not merely 
by its creation with freedom to choose, and by instruction 
in the moral ideal (§ 4). A man must also receive the Holy 
Spint’s gift of that delight in righteousness which is the love of 
God (§5). 

Instruction in the Law of God is, by itself, the "letter that 
killeth” (II Cor. 3:6). The meaning of “the letter” in this text 
is not to be limited to Scripture as understood literally, as 
against its allegorical interpretation. The “letter” may also 
stand for the moral precepts of the Law, which must necessarily 
be taken literally; and so “the Spint that giveth life” may mean, 
not “spiritual” or allegorical interpretation of Scripture, but 
the Spirit’s gift of the desire for what is good (§§ 6, 7). 

This can be shown by a study of Paul’s argument in Rom., 
chs. 5-7. His subject is the contrast of Law and Grace (§§ 8-1 1 ), 
the grace which he knew from his own experience (§ 12). He 
meets the Jew’s boast in the possession of the Law, by showing 
that the Law avaHs nothing if it be not kept. The Law brings 
only the knowledge of sin (§§ 13, 14); and the righteousness 
which keeps the Law is not product of men’s will, but is the 
“righteousness of God,” i.e., the righteousness which God im- 
parts to men upon faith in Christ (§§ 15, 16). “Glorying,” i.e., 
the conceit of righteousness, is “cut out” by the “law of faith,” 

193 



194 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

the thankful acknowledgment of the righteousness of God (§§ i 
18)5 which Paul has proclaimed at the beginning of the Epistle, 
showing that if glory be not given to God only, the natural 
knowledge of God as Creator cannot save men from the cor- 
ruption of sin (§§ 19, 20) • Paul does not mean that the “law of 
works” belongs to Judaism and the “law of faith” to Christian- 
ity; for the moral law (“thou shalt not covet”) is equally valid 
for both (§21)- The difference between the two is that “what 
is enjoined with threatenings under the law of works, is granted 
to belief under the law of faith” (§22). 

That the “letter that killeth” is in fact the moral law sum- 
marized in the Decalogue, is as plain from the whole context of 
II Cor., ch. 3 (§§ 23, 24), as from the argument of Rom., 
ch. 7 (§§ 25, 26). The passage of II Cor. suggests a contrast be- 
tween Sinai and Pentecost, the “finger of God” which wrote the 
Law on tables of stone, and the “finger of God” as the Holy 
Spirit writing upon the heart (§§27, 28): the one working 
through fear, the other through love (§ 29), the one a “letter” 
which is external, the other an inward presence (§§ 30, 31). 

In this same passage Paul refers to the new Covenant spoken 
of in Jeremiah 31 (§§ 32, 33). The new differs from the old, not 
by substituting a new law, but by giving the power to fulfil the 
Law (§ 34): the new Covenant heals the sickness of the “old” 
man (§ 35). Again, the promises attached to the old Covenant 
were earthly, material benefits (§ 36) : the promise of the new 
Covenant is a spiritual good, the life which is the knowledge of 
God (§§ 37-39). The promise is given to the true Israel “after 
the spirit,” that is, to God’s elect (§ 40) to whom he grants the 
vision of himself (§§41, 42). 

To the doctrine of Grace, so stated, it may be objected: 
(i) That Paul himself speaks of “Gentiles who do by nature the 
things contained in the Law” (Rom. 2: 14). But this cannot con- 
tradict his teaching that all true righteousness is of grace (§ 43). 
Either {a) these Gentiles are Christian believers (§§ 44, 45), the 
Law being “written on their hearts” as heirs of the new 
Covenant (§ 46), and the “nature” by which they fulfil the 
Law being the image of God restored by grace (§ 47). Or ( 4 ) 
they are heathen in whom some trace of the divine image re- 
mains: as “strangers from the grace of Christ,” their good works 
cannot bring them salvation, though they may receive a lighter 
punishment (§§ 48, 49). On either interpretation it remains true 
that no man can claim credit for his own fulfilment of the 
Law (§50): a man must be “justified” before he can do the 



THE SPIRIT AND THE LETTER I95 

works of which it is written that “if a man do, he shall live in 
them” (§51). 

(ii) That the doctrine would deprive man of the freedom to 
choose. We may reply that this freedom is ‘‘established” by the 
grace which heals the soul (§ 52). But since the gift of grace 
only follows upon faith, we have to ask whether faith itself is 
'"in our own power.” Power may be defined as “will plus 
capacity to act” (§ 53). The act of belief involves the consent of 
the will: no one believes “unwillingly,” nor is it true that all 
willing is of God, since in any case the evil will is not (§ 54). The 
belief in God, which is faith, is “in our power” because it is a 
willing act (§ 55); but it must be the belief of sons, not slaves, 
of love, not fear, and love is always the gift of the Spirit (§ 56). 

Whence then comes the “will to believe”? from “nature” or 
from God’s gift? In either case we ask, Why is it not universal? 
(§ 57)' natural gift of freedom to choose 

is morally neutral, and that whether we use it rightly or wrongly 
the will of God is undefeated; for God renders to aU according 
to their works (§§ 58, 59). But the will to beheve is not only a 
function of the natural freedom of choice: it depends on the 
presentations which come to us in experience, whether objec- 
tively or subjectively caused; and of these God is the author. 
Our own consent to his calling is necessary, but this consent is 
itself an act of acceptance, by which we receive God’s gift (§ 60) . 

Summary and conclusion (§§ 61-66) 

Perfect righteousness in this hfe is not an impossibility, if we 
allow (as we must) that our righteousness is a work of God. For 
it presumes no more than the perfect knowledge of what is right, 
and an insuperable delight in it. Normally, both our knowledge 
of God’s will, and our love of him, are in this life imperfect. The 
present life may indeed show a “lesser righteousness,” in which 
there is no sin in the sense of consent to evil desire. But even so 
we must still pray: “Forgive us our trespasses.” God could re- 
move from a man aU need for such a prayer; but as far as we 
know, he does not.] 

THE TEXT 

I (i). 

My beloved son MarceUinus, 

I sent to you not long ago two essays, in the first of which I 
discussed the practice of iifiant baptism, and in the second the 
idea of moral perfection as an end never reached or likely to be 
reached by any man in this life, save only by the one Mediator 



igS AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

who endured the trials of humanity in the likeness of sinful flesh, 
remaining altogether without sin. And now you tell me that 
you are struck by my speaking, in the second of these essays, of 
the possibility of a man’s being without sin, if God’s help be 
given and his own will not lacking, and yet asserting that there 
neither has been nor will be any man, except him alone in 
whom *‘all shall be made alive,” ^ to reach such perfection while 
he lives on earth. You think it a paradox to claim as possible a 
thing of which no instance can be given. Yet I suppose you 
would not doubt that there has been no case of a camel’s passing 
through the eye of a needle, though Christ said that even this 
is possible for God.^ Scripture tells you that twelve thousand 
legions of angels could have fought to save Christ from his pas- 
sion; yet it did not happen. 3 Scnpture tells you that the nations 
could have been cut off all at once from the land given to the 
children of Israel; yet God willed that it should only be by little 
and little.^ We can think of any number of other things which 
we admit might have happened or may happen, though we can 
allege no instance of their occurrence. We should not then deny 
the possibility of a man’s being without sin, simply because 
there is no man, save him who is not only man but very God, in 
whom we can show this perfection actually achieved. 

2 (ii). You may object, that the cases I have mentioned of 
things possible yet not actual are works of God; whereas the 
avoidance of sin belongs to man’s own working: man can do no 
better work than that which results in a righteousness full, per- 
fect and complete in every part; and you think it not creible, 
if such a work can be achieved by man, that there neither has 
been nor is nor will be anyone m this life who has achieved it. 
But you should consider that though this pursuit is indeed man’s 
business, it too is a divine gift; and so you should not doubt it 
to be a divine work. “For it is God,” says the apostle, “who 
worketh in you both to will and to do, according to his good 
will.” 3 3. Accordingly we need not be disturbed by those who 
maintain that any man lives or has lived in this world entirely 
without sin: we must press them to establish their assertion if 
they can. There are texts of Scripture which seem to me to lay 
it down that no man in this life, free though he be to choose, is 
ever found without sin. For example: “Enter not into judgment 
with thy servant, for in thy sight shall no man living be justi- 
fied.” ® If anyone can show that this and the like texts do not 

1 I Cor. 15:22. 2 Matt. 19:24, 26. 3 Matt. 26.53. 

4 Judg 2:20 ff, 3 Phil. 2:13. « Ps, 143*2. 



THE SPIRIT AND THE LETTER I97 

mean what they appear to say, and can prove that there has 
been a man or men whose life has been sinless, only a very 
grudging critic would refuse to accept his demonstration — I wiU 
not say without opposition, but rather wddi enthusiasm. On the 
other hand, supposing (as I incline to think) that no-one is or 
was or will be so perfect in purity, it would not so far as I can 
judge be an error either serious or mischievous to maintain the 
contrary, the mistake being naturally caused by a generous 
disposition; provided that the holder of such an opinion do not 
hold himself to be an example of perfection, unless his conscience 
has really and clearly declared it to him. 

4. But there is an opinion that calls for sharp and vehement 
resistance — I mean the belief that the power of the human will 
can of itself, without the help of God, either achieve perfect 
righteousness or advance steadily towards it. When we press upon 
those who so think the presumption of supposing this to happen 
without divine aid, they check themselves from venturing a 
statement which they see would be irrehgious and intolerable. 
But they say that the reason why it does not happen without 
divine aid is that God has both created man in possession of a 
win that chooses freely, and teaches him by the ^t of his com- 
mandments the right way of life; so that God’s help consists m 
the removal by instruction of man’s ignorance, so that he can 
know what is to be avoided in his actions and what is to be 
sought; and thus, by means of the power of free choice belong- 
mg to him by nature, he may enter upon the road pointed out 
to him, and by a life of self-control, justice and piety may merit 
attainment to the life which is both blessed and eternal. 

5 (hi). Our own assertion, on the contrary, is this: that the 
human will is divinely assisted to do the right in such manner 
that, besides man’s creation with the endowment of freedom to 
choose, and besides the teaching by which he is instructed how 
he ought to live, he receives Ae Holy Spirit, whereby there 
arises m his soul the delight in and the love of God, the supreme 
and changeless Good. This gift is his here and now, while he 
wallcs by faith, not yet by sight: that having this as earnest of 
God’s free bounty, he may be fired in heart to cleave to his 
Creator, kindled m mind to come within the shining of the true 
light; and thus receive from the source of his being the only real 
well-being. Free choice alone, if the way of truth is hidden, 
avails for nothing but sin; and w^hen the right action and the 
true aim has begun to appear clearly, there is stiU no doing, no 
devotion, no go^ life, unless it be also delighted in and loved. 



igS AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

And that it may be loved, the love of God is shed abroad in our 
hearts, not by the free choice whose spring is in ourselves, but 
through the Holy Spirit which is given us.'^ 

6 (iv). The truth is that the teaching which gives us the 
commandment of self-control and uprightness of life, remains, 
without the presence of the life-givmg Spirit, a letter that killeth. 
That text — ‘‘The letter killeth, but the spirit giveth hfe”8 — 
naturally taken to mean that we are not to understand the 
figurative sayings of Scripture in their literal sense, which may 
be irrational, but to look for their deeper significance, and find 
nourishment for the inward man in a spiritual understanding of 
them^; inasmuch as “to be carnally minded is death, but to be 
spiritually minded is life and peace.” There is much for ex- 
ample in the Song of Songs which if carnally understood must 
encourage the passion of lustful desire and not the fruit of en- 
lightened charity. But this is not the only meaning of the 
apostle’s saying: “the letter killeth, but the Spirit giveth life.” 
There is also, and perhaps more important, the sense which he 
clearly indicates elsewhere, in the words: “I was unaware of 
concupiscence, did not the law say, Thou shalt not covet.” 
And a little further on: “Sin taking occasion by the command- 
ment, deceived me, and through it slew me.”ii There is the 
letter killing! The words “Thou shalt not covet” are no 
figurative saying, not to be understood literally, they are a 
most plain and wholesome command, the fulfiUer of which will 
be altogether without sin. The apostle has purposely chosen a 
general all-embracing precept, to convey the voice of the law 
forbidding all sin; for there is no sin whose commission does not 
begin with coveting. Accordingly, the law which gives this 
command is good and praiseworthy. But where the Holy 
Spirit’s aid is not given, leading us to covet good ^ 2 instead of 
evil, that is, shedding charity abroad in our hearts — there 
assuredly this law, good though it be, increases by its pro- 
hibition the evil desire. A continuing flow of water in the same 

7 Rom, 5.5; this text, to which Augustine is continually returning, re- 
mained for him the most conclusive scriptural refutation of Pelagianism 
It must be noted that he always takes it to refer, not to God’s love for us 
but to our love for God (cf. § 56, ad Jin), but since for him love m us is 
the product of God’s love for us, he is not really misusing the text. 

8 II Cor. 3.6. 

9 This was the sense in which Augustine had heard the text employed by 
Ambrose at Milan, before his conversion (cf. Conf , VI, 4). 

10 Rom, 8*6. u Rom, 7*7, ii. 

12 Here Augustme uses the phrase concupiscentia bona as = cantos. 



THE SPIRIT AND THE LETTER I99 

direction gains in impetus %vhen an obstacle is interposed, and 
after overcoming its resistance breaks forth with added volume 
in a more headlong current. The coveted object grows somehow 
more attractive through being forbidden. That is how sin 
''deceives through the commandment, and through it kills,’’ 
provoking the transgression which does not exist where there 
is no law.^^ 

7 (v). It will be well to consider and (as God shall help us) 
expound this whole passage of Paul’s Epistle. I wish to show, if 
I can, that the apostle’s words: "the letter kiUeth, but the Spirit 
giveth hfe,” do not refer primarily to figurative modes of 
speech — though that sense may also fit them — but rather to 
the law’s express forbidding of what is evil. That being demon- 
strated, it will be the more evident that the good life is a divine 
gift: not only because God has given man the power of free 
choice, without which moral life were impossible; not only be- 
cause he has given the commandment to teach us how to live; 
but because through the Holy Spirit he sheds abroad charity in 
the hearts of those whom he foreknew that he might pre- 
destinate, predestinated that he might call, called that he might 
justify, and justified that he might glorify. If I can make this 
clear, I think you will see that the proposed objection falls to 
the ground: I mean the argument that nothing is to be called 
possible in the absence of an instance but works of God, hke my 
case of the camel’s passing through the needle’s eye, and all else 
that with us IS impossible but not with God; and that human 
righteousness cannot be included in this class, as belonging not 
to God’s work but man’s: so that there can be no reason for dis- 
believing in any example of its perfection, if that perfection is 
possible in this hfe. This argument, I say, must clearly fall to 
the ground, once we are assured that human righteousness itself, 
though not arising independently of man’s will, is yet to be 
ascribed to the operation of God. We cannot deny the possi- 
bihty of its perfection in this life, just because all things are 
possible for God — both what he does by his own will alone, and 
what he has ordained to be accomplished by himself with the 
co-operation of the wills of his creatures. Anything m either kind 
that he does not do will be without example in fact, but will have 
the reason of its possibility in God’s power and the reason of its 
non-occurrence in God’s wisdom. Such reason may be hidden 
from a man; but he must not forget his humanity, and attribute 
unwisdom to God because the wisdom of God exceeds his grasp, 
13 Rom. 4: 15. 14 Rom. 8*29 f 



200 


AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


8. Now consider the apostle’s exposition in his Epistle to the 
Romans, in which he gives sufficient proof that his words to the 
Corinthians — ‘‘the letter kiUeth, but the Spirit giveth hfe” — are 
to be understood as we have said: in that the letter of the law, 
admonishing us to avoid sin, kills, if the life-giving Spirit be not 
present. For the law makes sin to be known rather than 
shunned, and, inasmuch as transgression of law is added to the 
evil of coveting, to be increased rather than diminished. 

9 (vi). The apostle’s aim is to commend the grace which 
came through Jesus Christ to all peoples, lest the Jews exalt 
themselves above the rest on account of their possession of the 
law. He says 15 that through one man sin and death entered 
into the human race, and through one man righteousness and 
eternal life — by the one pointing obviously to Adam and by the 
other to Christ. And he proceeds: “The law entered in that the 
offence might abound; but where the offence abounded, grace 
did much more abound, that as sin hath reigned unto death, 
even so might grace reign through righteousness unto eternal life 
by Jesus Christ our Lord.” Next he puts to himself the question: 
“What shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin, that grace 
may abound? God forbid!” He has seen that perverse readers 
might put a perverse interpretation on what he has just said: 
“The law entered in that the offence might abound; but where 
the offence abounded, grace did much more abound.” He 
might be taken to assert that because of the abounding of grace 
sin was profitable. He rejects this with his “God forbid!” and 
adds: “How shall we, that are dead to sin, live therein?” That 
is to say: “Since grace has effected for us our death to sin, to live 
therein would be nothing but ingratitude to grace.” To praise 
the benefits of medicine does not imply a profit in the diseases 
and wounds which medicine heals. The higher our praise of 
medicine, the stronger is our censure and abhorrence of the 
hurts and diseases from which the admired art relieves us. So 
the praise and preaching of grace is the censure and condemna- 
tion of offences. Man needed to be shown the foulness of his 
malady. Against his wickedness not even a “holy and good” 
commandment ^<5 could avail: by it the wickedness was rather 
increased than diminished. For “the law entered in, that the 
offence might abound”; so that thus convicted and confounded 
he might see his need for God, not only as teacher but as helper 
to “direct his ways, lest any iniquity have dominion over him” 
that he should flee to the help of mercy for his healing, and so 
15 Cf. Rom. 5: 12 — 6 II. 15 Rom 7 12. i 7 Ps. 119:133- 



201 


THE SPIRIT AND THE LETTER 

where the offence abounded grace should yet more abound, not 
by the desert of the sinner, but through the aid of the succouren 

10. To this same healing medicine, mystically shown forth in 
Christ’s passion and resurrection, the aposde points in his next 
words: ‘‘Know ye not, that so many of us as were baptized in 
Christ Jesus were baptized into his death? Therefore we are 
buried with him by baptism into death, that like as Christ rose 
from the dead through the glory of the Father, even so we also 
should walk in newness of life. For if we have been planted to- 
gether in the likeness of his death, we shall be also in the like- 
ness of his resurrection; knowing this, that our old man has been 
crucified with him, that the body of sin may be brought to 
nought, that henceforth we should not serve sin. For he that is 
dead, is justified from sin. Now if we be dead with Christ, we 
believe that we shall live together with him: knowing that 
Christ, rising from the dead, dieth no more, and death shall 
have no more dominion over him. For in that he died, he died 
unto sin once for all, but in that he liveth, he Hveth unto God. 
So reckon ye also yourselves to be dead imto sin, but living unto 
God in Christ Jesus.” It is plain enough that by the mystery of 
the Lord’s death and resurrection is signified the setting of our 
old life and the rising of the new: there is shown forth the 
destruction of sin and the renewal of righteousness. Surely so 
great a benefit can come to man not by the letter of the law, 
but only by faith in Jesus Christ. 

II (vii). This holy consideration preserves the sons of men, 
who “hope in the protection of God’s wings,” that they may be 
“satisfied with the fatness of his house,” and “drink of the river 
of his pleasures.” For “with him is the fountain of life, and in his 
light we shall see light: he extends his mercy unto them that 
know him, and his righteousness unto them that are of an up- 
right heart.” He extends his mercy, not because they know 
him but in order that they may know him: he extends his 
righteousness whereby he justifies the ungodly, not because they 
are upright in heart, but that they may become upright in heart. 
This consideration does not lead astray into pride — the fault 
that arises from trust in self and making the self the spring of 
its own life. To go that way is to draw back from the fountain 
of life, whose draught alone gives the righteousness which is 
good hfe, and from that changeless hght by whose participation 
the reasonable soul is as it were set burning so as to be itself a 
light made and created. So was John “a burning and a shining 

18 Ps. 36.711. 



202 


AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


light/’ yet one that knew whence came his shining. “Of his 
fullness,” says the Gospel, “we have received” — of the fullness, 
that is, of him in comparison with whom John was no light. For 
“that was the true light that lighteth every man that cometh 
into this world.” Accordingly, in the Psalm from which we 
have quoted the words: “Extend thy mercy to them that know 
thee, and thy righteousness unto them that are of upright 
heart:” it continues: “Let not the foot of pride come upon me, 
and let not the hands of sinners disturb me. There are they fallen, 
all that work wickedness: they are cast out, and were not able 
to stand.” By the ungodliness which makes a man ascribe to 
himself what belongs to God, he is driven into his own darkness, 
the works of iniquity. Those works assuredly he does himself, 
and for their accomplishment he is sufficient to himself. But the 
works of righteousness he cannot do, except as he receives of 
that fountain and that light, where there is life in need of noth- 
ing, where there is no change nor shadow of alteration. 21 

12. Paul the apostle, who chose to be called Paul (as I think) 
instead of his former name of Saul, simply to indicate his “little- 
ness” as “the least of the apostles,” contends with such vigour 
and zeal on behalf of this grace of God against the proud and 
arrogant presumei*s upon their own works, just because the 
manifestation of grace had been in himself more especially plain 
and notable. His own work, m vehement persecution of the 
Church of God, had earned for him condign penalty; but in- 
stead of condemnation he received mercy, instead of punish- 
ment he met with grace. Rightly then is he loud and eager above 
all in the defence of grace: he cares nothing for the mahce of 
men without understanding in this profound and inscrutable 
matter, who twisted his wholesome sayings into a perverted 
sense. Unhesitatingly he preaches the gift of God, by which 
alone salvation comes to the sons of promise, the sons of divine 

goodness, the sons of grace and mercy, the sons of the New 

Testament. His greeting is always in these terms: “Grace to you 
and peace from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.” 22 
And in his letter to the Romans this very matter is almost his 
sole concern — ^waging his fight with such manifold argument 
as to weary the reader’s endeavour to follow: yet such weariness 
is profitable and wholesome, training rather than enfeebling the 
physique of the inward man. 

13 (viii). From this argument come the words which I 

19 John 5; 35. 20 John i : 16, 9. 

21 James i .17. 22 E g., I Cor. 1.3. 



THE SPIRIT AND THE LETTER 20$ 

have already quoted; and also the passage in which he convicts 
the Jew, saying that he is named Jew and yet by no means car- 
ries out what he professes. “If thou art called a Jew, and restest 
in the law and makest thy boast m God and knowest his will, 
and approvest distinctions, being instructed out of the law: if 
thou art confident that thou thyself art a guide of the blind, a 
light of them which are in darkness, an instructor of the foolish, 
a teacher of babes, having the form of knowledge and truth in 
the law — thou therefore which teachest another, teachest thou 
not thyself? Thou that preachest against stealing, dost thou 
steal? thou that speakest against adultery, dost thou commit 
adultery? thou that abhorrest idols, dost thou do sacrilege? thou 
that makest thy boast in the law, through breaking the law dis- 
honourest thou God? For the name of God is blasphemed among 
the Gentiles through you, as it is written. Circumcision indeed 
profiteth, if thou keep the law; but if thou be a breaker of the 
law, thy circumcision is made uncircumcision. Therefore if the 
uncircumcised keep the righteous acts of the law, shall not his 
uncircumcision be counted for circumcision? and shall not un- 
circumcision which is by nature, if it fulfil the law, judge thee 
who by the letter and circumcision art a breaker of the law? 
For he is not a Jew which is one in appearance, neither is that 
circumcision which is apparent in the flesh; but he is a Jew 
which is a Jew in the unseen and by circumcision of the heart, 
in the spirit not in the letter, whose praise is not of men but of 
God.” 23 Here is shown the meaning of the words: “Thou 
makest thy boast in God.” If one that was a Jew indeed should 
make his boast in God in the manner called for by grace, which 
is given not according to the merits of works, but freely, his 
praise would be of God and not of men. But they made their 
l3oast in God, as though they alone had deserved to receive his 
law, according to that verse of the Psalm: “He hath not so done 
unto any nation and hath not shown forth his judgments unto 
them.” 24 Yet this law of God they supposed themselves to fulfil 
by their own righteousness, though they were rather its trans- 
gressors. And so its working for them was wrath, as sin multi- 
plied, committed by those who knew it for sin: even those who 
did as the law commanded, without the help of the Spirit of 
grace, did it through fear of punishment and not from love of 
righteousness. Thus in God’s sight there was not in their will 
that obedience which to the sight of men appeared in their work; 
they were the rather held guilty for that which God knew they 
23 Rom. 2: 17 ff. 24 Ps. 147:20. 



AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


204 

would have chosen to commit, if it could have been without 
penalty. By '‘circumcision of the heart,” Paul means a will pure 
of all unlawful coveting; and this comes not of the teaching and 
threatening of the letter, but of the helping and healing of the 
Spirit. Therefore is the praise of such not of men, but of God 
who by this grace supplies that to which praise is due — God of 
whom the Psalm says: “in the Lord shall my soul be praised,” 25 
and to whom it says: “with thee is my praise.” 2^ This is not the 
mind of those who will have praise rendered to God because 
they are men, but to themselves because they are righteous. 27 
14. What is their answer? “We do give praise,” they say, “to 
God as author of our justification, inasmuch as he gave the law, 
by the study of which we know how we ought to live.” They are 
deaf to the Scripture: “because from the law shall no flesh be 
justified before God.” 28 It may be so before men; but not before 
him who sees into the very heart and inward will, and there 
perceives, even though the fearer of the law act otherwise, how 
he would act if he were given licence. We cannot suppose that 
the aposde means here, by the law by which no man is justified, 
the law of ancient rites, in which many commandments were 
figuratively conveyed (as in that of circumcision itself, to be 
received by infants upon the eighth day); for he goes on im- 
mediately to define that law of which he was speaking, in the 
words: “for through the law is the knowledge of sin.” It is then 
the same law of which he says later: “I have not known sin, 
but through the law; for I was unaware of concupiscence, did 
not the law say. Thou shalt not covet.” 29 In other words: 
“through the law is the knowledge of sin.” 

15 (ix). Here, perhaps, it will be rejoined by that human 
presumption which is ignorant of God’s righteousness and eager 
to establish its own, 3 o that the apostle had good cause to say: 
“from the law shall no man be justified”; since the law does 
but point out what is to be done or not done, in order that the 
will may carry out its promptings, and so man be justified not 
by the law’s command but by his own free choice. Nay but, O 
man, consider what follows! — “But now without law the right- 
eousness of God hath been manifested, witnessed to by law and 
prophets.” 31 Can even the deaf fail to hear? “The righteousness 

25 Ps. 34.2. 26 Ps. 22*25. 

27 The “general” argument for grace against Pelagianism: righteoxisness is 
a greater gift than existence. 

28 Rom. 3:20. 29 Rom. 7:7, 

30 Rom. 10.3 31 Rom. 3*21. 



THE SPIRIT AND THE LETTER 205 

of God hath been manifested.’* This is that righteousness 
of which they are ignorant who would establish their own, and 
will not be subject to that other. “The righteousness of God ^^ — 
not the righteousness of man or the righteousness of our own 
will — the righteousness of God, not that by which God is 
righteous, but that wherewith he clothes man, when he justifies 
the ungodly. To this, law and prophets bear witness: the law, 
inasmuch as by its commands and its threatenings, and its 
justifying of no man, it gives ample token that man is justified 
by the gift of God through the help of the Spirit; and the 
prophets, because Christ’s coming has fulfilled that which they 
foretold. For how does the apostle continue? — “The righteous- 
ness of God through the faith of Jesus Christ”: that is, the faith 
whereby we believe in Christ. The “faith of Christ” here meant 
is not that by which Christ believes, any more than the right- 
eousness of God IS that by which God is righteous. Both are our 
own; called “of God” and “of Christ,” because bestowed upon 
us by his bounty. Thus “the righteousness of God without law” 
is yet manifested not without the law; otherwise it could not 
have been witnessed to through the law. It is indeed a right- 
eousness of God without law, because God confers it upon the 
believer through the Spirit of grace, without the help of the law. 
The law, that is, contributes nothing to God’s saving act: 
through it he does but show man his weakness, that by faith he 
may take refuge in the divine mercy and be healed. It is said of 
God’s wisdom, that “she beareth law and mercy on her 
tongue” ^2: law, by which the proud are held guilty, mercy, by 
which the humble are justified. Accordingly, there is a “right- 
eousness of God through the faith of Jesus Christ unto all that 
believe; for there is no difference: all have sinned and are in 
want of the glory of God” — not of their own glory; for “what 
have they which they have not received? and if they have re- 
ceived, why do they glory as though they had not received?” ^3 
They are in want of the glory of God; and (observe the conclu- 
sion!) “are justified freely by his grace.” Justified, then, not by 
the law, not by their own will, but “freely by his grace”: not 
that the justification is without our will, but the weakness of our 
will is discovered by the law, so that grace may restore the will 
and the restored will may fulfil the law, established neither 
under the law nor in need of law. 

i6 (x). “The law is not made for the righteous man”; yet it 
is good, “if a man use it lawfully.” ^4 In putting together these 
32 Prov. 3: 16 (LXX). 33 I Cor. 4:7 34 I Tim. 1:8 f. 



206 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

two seemingly conflicting statements, the apostle prompts his 
reader to the asking and answering of a question. In what sense 
can it be said that the law is good, ‘'if a man use it lawfully,” if 
the following words are true: “knowing this, that the law is not 
made for the righteous”? For who but the righteous uses the 
law^ lawfully? Yet it is not made for him, but for the unright- 
eous. The answer is that the unrighteous, in order that he may 
be justified — that is, made righteous — must use lawfully the 
law, as the “tutor” conducting him to grace, through which 
alone he can fulfil the law’s commands. Through grace he is 
justified “freely,” that is, by no preceding merits of his own 
works — “otherwise grace is no more grace” 3^: for it is given not 
because we have done good works, but in order that we may 
have power to do them, not because we have fulfilled the law, 
but in order that we may be able to fulfil it. For of him who 
said, “I came not to destroy the law, but to fulfil,”^^ it is writ- 
ten: “we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only-begotten 
from the Father, full of grace and truth.” That is the glory, 
of which It is said that “all have sinned and are in want of the 
glory of God”; and that is the grace of which Paul speaks in the 
same breath: “being justified freely by his grace.” The un- 
righteous man, then, uses the law lawfully, in order that he 
may be made righteous. When he has been made righteous, he 
is to use it no longer, even as the use of a vehicle ceases at the 
journey’s end, or (in the apostle’s own simile already men- 
tioned) the use of a tutor when instruction is completed. If the 
law is necessary for the righteous also, not to bring him while 
as yet unrighteous to the grace which justifies, but to be used 
lawfully by him after his becoming righteous, it is hard to see 
how the law is not made for the righteous man. We may per- 
haps answer — ^indeed we may surely answer — that there is a 
lavdTul use of the law by him who is already righteous, which 
consists in his putting the fear of it upon the unrighteous. So, 
when they too have found the plague of inveterate covetousness 
worsened by the stimulus of prohibition and the multiplying of 
transgression, they may take refuge by faith with the grace that 
justifies, and escape the punishment threatened by the letter 
through being brought by the Spirit’s gift to delight in the 
sweetness of righteousness. In this way there will be no con- 
trariety nor conflict between the tw^o positions, that the right- 
eous also may use lawfully the good law, and yet the law be 

35 Gal. 3 : 24 . 36 Rom II 6 . 

37 Matt. 5 . 17 . 38 John i 14 . 



THE SPIRIT AND THE LETTER 2O7 

not made for the righteous. For he is justified not by it, but by 
the law of faith, through which he has believed that his own 
infirmity could in no way be enabled to fulfil the commands of 
the law of works, save by the succour of divine grace. 

17. “Where then,” asks the apostle accordingly, “is thy 
glorying? It is cut out. By what law? The law of works? Nay, 
but by the law of faith.” 3 ^ Here the “glorying” may be that 
commendable glorying “in the Lord,” “cut out,” not in the 
sense of being banished, but in that of being made to stand forth 
in rehef. In this sense we sometimes call a worker in silver a 
“cutter-out”; and the same use is found in the Psalm-text: “that 
they who are approved by silver may be cut out” — ^which 
means that they who are approved by the word of the Lord may 
stand forth clearly, as it is said in another place: “the words of 
the Lord are pure words, silver tested in the fire.” Or it may 
be that Paul means the faulty “glorying” which comes of pride 
— the glorying of those who think their hfe is righteous and glory 
as though they had not received it; and this he says is “cut out,” 
cast out and cast away, not by the law of works but by the law 
of faith, since it is by the law of faith that all must come to know 
that any good in their life is theirs by the grace of God, and 
that their perfecting in the love of righteousness can come about 
in no other way. 

1 8 (xi). It is this consideration that makes a man God- 
fearing. For the fear of God — ^what the Greeks call theosebeia — ^is 
the true wisdom, the wisdom commended when man is told (in 
the Book of Job): “Behold, the fear of God is wisdom.” ^2 xhe 
Greek word theosebeia might according to its derivation be trans- 
lated “the worship of God,” of which the essence lies in thank- 
fulness of soul: wherefore we are exhorted, in our liturgy of the 
one true Sacrifice, to “give thanks to the Lord our God.” 43 But 
it will be thanklessness in the soul to attribute to itself that which 
comes to it from God — above all, to think of the works of 
righteousness as its own, as acquired by itself for itself. This is 
not the vulgar conceit of wealth or good looks or eloquence, or 
of any of those good things, of body, mind, or circumstance, 

39 Rom. 3 27. 

40 Ps. 68.30, where the Vulg has ut excludant eos qui probati sunt argento, 
Augustine takes excludant here in the sense of exclusor, meaning a “silver- 
worker,” and suggests that the word exclusa (which correctly translates 
the Greek) in Rom. 3:27 may have the same sense. The suggestion is 
cleaily impossible. 

41 Ps. 12 6. 42 Job 28:28. 

43 The beginning of the Canon of the Mass 



208 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

which may equally be possessed by wicked men; it is a would-be 
superior pride in those goods which properly belong to the good. 
It is the fault which has caused even great men to fall away from 
the steadfastness of the divine being into the dishonour of 
idolatry. 

So Paul begins this same Epistle, in which he is to speak so 
powerfully on behalf of grace, by acknowledging that he is 
debtor both to Greeks and barbarians, both to wise and unwise, 
and ready therefore so much as in him lies to preach the gospel 
to them that were at Rome.^^ ‘Tor I am not ashamed,” he says 
“of the gospel; for it is the power of God unto salvation to 
everyone that believeth, to the Jew first and also to the Greek. 
For therein is the righteousness of God revealed from faith to 
faith, as it is written, “The righteous liveth by faith.” This is the 
righteousness of God, which was hidden in the Old Testament 
and is revealed in the New: called the righteousness of God, 
because God by imparting it makes man righteous, even as 
it is “the Lord’s salvation” by which he causes men to be 
saved. And this is the faith, from which and to which it is re- 
vealed: that is, from the faith of those who proclaim it to the 
faith of those who are obedient to it. By the faith of Jesus Christ 
— the faith, that is, which Christ has conferred upon us — we 
believe that from God is given to us and will be given yet more 
fully the life of righteousness. Wherefore with that holy fear by 
which he alone is to be worshipped, we give him thanks. 

19 (xii). With good reason, the apostle turns at this point 
to denounce those who, through the fault above mentioned, 
have mounted of themselves like blown-up bubbles into the 
empty air, and fallen down not to rest but to be shattered on the 
stones of idolatry. He had commended the true rehgion of faith, 
by which we should show thankfulness to God for our justifica- 
tion; and now he opposes to it the contrary state for our abhor- 
rence. “For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven upon all 
ungodliness and unrighteousness of those men who hold the 
truth in iniquity; because that which is known concerning God 
is manifest in them, for God has manifested it to them. For the 
invisible things of him from the creation of the world are clearly 
seen, being understood through the things which are made, his 
eternal power also and divinity: that they may be without ex- 
cuse, because though having a knowledge of God they glorified 
him not as God nor gave thanks, but became empty in their 
thoughts, and their foolish heart was darkened. Professing 

Rom. i: 14 flf. Pg. 3.8. 



THE SPIRIT AND THE LETTER 200 

themselves to be wise, they were made fools, and changed the 
glory of the incorruptible God into the likeness of the image of 
corruptible man, of birds, of four-footed beasts, and creeping 
things.” Notice that Paul does not call them ignorant of the 
truth, but says that they held the truth in iniquity; and he does 
not fail to meet the natural question. Whence could they to 
whom God had not given the law have knowledge of the truth? 
For he says that through the visible things of the creation they 
reached an understanding of the invisible things of the Creator. 
There have, indeed, been great minds who sought earnestly for 
truth this way and were able to find it. In what, then, lies their 
“ungodliness”? In that, having come to know God, “they glori- 
fied him not as God, nor gave thanks, but became empty in 
their thoughts.” Emptiness is the peculiar disease of men who 
deceive themselves in the belief that they are something, when 
they are nothing. 4 s They enter into the shadow of that swelling 
hill of pride, of whose foot the holy singer prays that it come not 
against him, saying “In thy light we shall see light.”^® Thus 
they have turned away from the very light of changeless truth, 
and “their foolish heart is darkened.” For though they had 
known God their heart is not wise, but foolish, since “they 
glorified him not as God, nor gave thanks.” For “to man he has 
said. Behold, the fear of God is wisdom.” Therefore, “pro- 
fessing themselves to be wise,” which means simply, ascribing 
this same wisdom to themselves, “they have been made fools.” 

20. What need to tell the sequel? Through this godlessness 
those men, those very men who were able through the creation 
to reach a knowledge of the Creator, have fallen, because God 
resists the proud — and to what depths they have sunk we may 
better learn from the following verses of the Epistle than here 
describe. It is not our purpose in this work to expound the 
Epistle to the Romans, but to use its testimony to prove as surely 
as we may that the divine aid for the working of righteousness 
consists not in God’s gift of the law, full as it is of good and holy 
commands, but in that our will itself, without which we cannot 
do the good, is aided and uplifted by the imparting of the Spirit 
of grace. Without that aid, the teaching is a letter that killeth, 

46 Rom. i: i8 fF. 

47 Augustine is thinking of Plato and the Platonists, whom he always re- 
garded as having reached a genuine apprehension of God, CX Conf.^ 

VII, 9 . 

48 Gal. 6:3. 

50 Job 28:28. 

A.L.W. — 14 


49 Ps. 36*1 1, 9. 
51 James 4:6, 



210 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

since it rather holds men m the guilt of transgression than justi- 
fies the ungodly. To those who gained knowledge of the 
Creator through the creature, that knowledge was of no avail 
unto salvation, because ' ‘knowing God they glorified him not as 
God, nor gave thanks, professing themselves to be wise.” Even 
so, those who through the law of God know how man ought 
to live are not justified by their knowledge, since “willing to 
establish their own righteousness they have not been subject to 
the righteousness of God.” ^2 

21 (xiii). We shall do well then to consider the difference 
between the law of works which does not “cut out” the glorying 
spoken of, and the law of faith which does. But this requires an 
effort of attention and discrimination. One might hastily con- 
clude that the law of works belongs to Judaism and the law of 
faith to Christianity, on the ground that the Jewish law pre- 
scribes circumcision and suchhke works, which Christian prac- 
tice has abandoned. The error in this distinction is what we have 
all along been endeavouring to prove, and it may be have 
proved already for clear-thinking readers — ^in particular for 
yourself and for the like of you. Yet the matter is important 
enough to warrant us for dwelling in its demonstration upon 
still further evidences. The law of which Paul speaks, by which 
no man is justified, is the same law which he says “entered 
afterwards that the offence might abound.” ^ 3 But he defends it 
against any ignorant argument or profane accusation. “What 
shall we say then? Is the law sin? God forbid! Nay, I have not 
known sin but by the law; for I was unaware of concupiscence, 
did not the law say ^Thou shalt not covet.’ Sin therefore, find- 
ing its opportunity through the commandment, wrought in me 
all manner of concupiscence.” And again: “The law is holy, 
and the commandment holy, just, and good; but sin, that it 
might appear sin, wrought death in me by that which is good.” 
Therefore the law which says “Thou shalt not covet,” is itself 
“the letter that killeth”; and of it Paul says, in the words already 
quoted: “through the law is the knowledge of sm. But now the 
righteousness of God without law has been manifested, being 
witnessed by the law and the prophets: even the righteousness of 
God through the faith of Jesus Christ unto all who believe. For 
there is no distinction: aU have sinned and are in want of the 
glory of God, being justified freely by his grace through the re- 
demption that is in Christ Jesus; whom God has set forth to make 
expiation, through faith, by his blood, for the showing of his 
52 Rom. 10.3. 53 Rom. 5 20. 54 Rom. 7:7 ff. 



THE SPIRIT AND THE LETTER 2II 

righteousness on account of the sins which have gone before 
under God’s forbearance: to show his righteousness at this time, 
that he may be just and the justifier of him who is of the faith 
of Jesus.”^^ Then follows the text with which we are now 
dealing. ''Where then is thy glorying? It is cut out. By what 
law? Of works? Nay, but by the law of faith.” 

This law of works, then, is that same law which says "Thou 
shalt not covet,” because by it is the knowledge of sin. I chal- 
lenge anyone to tell me whether the law of faith does not say 
"Thou shalt not covet.” If it does not, why may not we who 
stand under it sin with freedom and impumty? For that is what 
the apostle was supposed to imply, by those of whom he writes: 
"as some affirm that we say. Let us do evil that good may come: 
whose judgment is just.” 56 But if the law of faith also says 
"Thou shalt not covet,” as is constantly testified aloud by so 
many evangelic and apostolic precepts, why is not it too called 
a law of works? Because it no longer has the works of the old 
ordinances — circumcision and the like, it does not follow that 
the matter of its own ordinances, adapted to our own time, are 
not works. There was no question of the works of these ordi- 
nances, 56a when reference was made to the law in respect that 
through it is the knowledge of sin, and accordingly no one by 
it is justified: so that glorying is cut out, not by it, but by the 
law of faith by which the just lives. Can it be that through the 
law of faith also comes the knowledge of sin, since it too says 
"Thou shalt not covet”? 

22. Where then lies the difference? To put it in a sentence: 
what is enjoined with threatenings under the law of works, is 
granted to behef under the law of faith. The one says "Thou 
shalt not covet.” 57 The other says, "Because I knew that no man 
can be temperate unless God grant it, and that to know of whose 
gift it came was a part of wisdom, I came near unto the Lord 
and besought him.” 58 That is the wisdom which is called the 
fear of God, wherewith is worshipped the Father of light, from 
whom is every good and perfect gift. 59 He is worshipped by the 
sacrifice of praise and thanksgiving, that his worshipper may 

55 Rom. 3*20 fF. 56 Rom 3*8 

5€a « ‘Ordinances” translates Augustine’s word sacr amenta. The “sacra- 
ments” of the old covenant have been replaced by others in the new: both 
are “works,” but not by them but by the moral law common to both 
covenants comes the knowledge of sin. 

57 Ex. 20 17. 

58 Wisdom 8.21; note that Augustine can quote Apocrypha for the ‘law of 

faith ” 59 James 1:17. 



212 


AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


glory not in himself but in God.^o So by the law of works God 
says, '‘Do what I command’’ : by the law of faith we say to God, 
"Give what thou commandest.” The law commands, that 
we may be advised what faith must do: that the hearer of the 
command, if he cannot as yet perform it, may know what he 
should pray for; if at once he can and performs it obediently, 
he should know by whose gift he has that power. "For we have 
not received the spirit of this world,” says the same most con- 
stant preacher of grace, "but the Spirit which is of God, that we 
may know those things which have been given to us by God.” 
What also is the spirit of this world but the spirit of pride, by 
which was darkened the foolish heart of those who knew God 
but glorified him not as God, by giving thanks? — the same 
spirit by which those men are deceived, who being ignorant 
of God’s righteousness, and willing to establish their own, have 
not been subject to the righteousness of God. He that knows 
from whom he may hope to receive that which he has not yet 
is more a child of faith (I think) than he who ascribes to himself 
what he has; though better than either is he who both has and 
knows from whom he has it. Only let him not believe himself 
to be what as yet he is not, and so fall into the offence of the 
Pharisee who gave God thanks for what he had but asked for 
nothing to be given him — as though he stood in need of nothing 
for the increase and perfecting of his righteousness. 

The examination and discussion which we have carried out, 
to the best of that power which the Lord deigns to bestow, has 
led us to conclude that man is not j’ustified by the precepts of 
the good life, but only through the faith of Jesus Christ: that is, 
not by the law of works but by the law of faith, not by the letter 
but by the spirit, not by the deserts of our actions but by grace 
freely given. 

23 (xiv). The apostle’s reproof and correction of those upon 
whom circumcision was being urged may seem to indicate that 
what he calls the law is circumcision and similar legal obser- 
vances, which as shadows of what was to come are now rejected 
by Christians, who hold the reality of that which was promised 
in a figure through those shadows. But the law, by which he 
says that no man is justified, is meant by him to be taken in the 
sense not only of those ordinances which were given to them as 

60 II Cor. 10* 17. 

61 The famous prayer of Conf.^ X, 40, which gave offence to Pelagius 

(Aug., De PraedesL, II, 53). 

62 I Cor. 2. 12. 


63 Luke 18: 1 1 f. 



THE SPIRIT AND THE LETTER 213 

figures of the promise, but also of the works in whose perfor- 
mance is the life of righteousness: whereto belongs the command 
‘Thou shalt not covet.” To make our point the clearer, let us 
look at the Decalogue itself. Undoubtedly Moses received on 
the mount a law to be ministered to the people, written on 
tables of stone by the finger of God.^^ It is comprised in ten 
commandments, among which there is no charge of circum- 
cision, nor of the animal sacrifices which by Christians are no 
longer offered. In these ten commandments, apart from the 
observance of the Sabbath, I would ask what the Christian is 
not bound to observe: of the commands, not to make or worship 
idols, or any other gods but the one true God, not to take God’s 
name in vain, to honour parents, to avoid fornication, murder, 
theft, false witness, adultery, and the coveting of that which is 
another’s — which among these commands can be said not to 
bind the Christian? It is impossible to suppose that what the 
apostle calls “the letter that killeth” is not this law, written on 
the two Tables, but that of circumcision and the other ancient 
ordinances now done away; for in the law of the Tables comes 
“Thou shalt not covet,” the command by which (says Paul), 
“though it is holy and righteous and good, sin deceived me and 
thereby slew me” — ^which can only be “the letter killing.” 

24. It is still more patent that in the context of the Epistle 
to the Corinthians, where the saying occurs that “the letter 
killeth, but the spirit giveth life,” the “letter” can only mean 
the Decalogue, written upon the two Tables. The passage runs 
thus^^: “For ye are the epistle of Christ, ministered by us, writ- 
ten not with ink but with the Spirit of the living God, not in 
tables of stone but in fleshy tables of the heart. And such trust 
have we through Christ towards God; not that we are fit to 
think anything as of ourselves, but our sufficiency is of God, who 
also hath made us fit ministers of the new covenant, not of the 
letter, but of the spirit. For the letter Idlleth, but the spirit 
giveth life. But if the ministration of death, formed in letters of 
stone, was made in glory, so that the children of Israel could not 
stedfastly look upon the face of Moses, for the glory of his 
countenance which is being done away, why shall not the 
ministration of the Spirit be yet more in glory? For if 
the ministration of condemnation is glory, much more shall 
the ministration of righteousness abound in glory.” 

On this text much might be said; but it may be more in place 
later. For the moment, note what is meant by the “letter that 

Ex. 31 18, Deut. 9 10 11 Cor 3.2 ff. 



AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


214 

killeth,” contrasted with the "'Spirit that giveth life.” Unques- 
tionably it is "the ministration of death formed in letters of 
stone”: "'the ministration of condemnation,” because the law 
""entered afterw’ards, that the offence might abound.” ^6 
commandments themselves are profitable and wholesome to the 
doer — ^so much so that only the doer of them can have life. But 
can the Decalogue be called the letter that killeth because of 
that one commandment which it includes concerning the Sab- 
bath, on the ground that to continue the literal observance of 
that day is to be carnally minded, and "'to be carnally minded 
is death”? Can it be diought that the other nine command- 
ments which it is still right to observe as they are written, belong 
not to the law of works by which no man is justified, but to the 
law of faith by which the just lives? It would be absurd to suppose 
that the "‘ministration of death formed in letters of stone” 
applies not to all ten commandments but to the single one 
which deals with the Sabbath. What then are we to make of the 
texts: "'the law worketh wrath; for where no law is, there is no 
transgi'ession”; ""until the law, sin was in the world; but sin 
was not imputed when there was no law”; "'by the law is the 
knowledge of sin” (those words so often quoted) ; and above all, 
the saying that admits no doubt as to its reference: ""I was un- 
aware of concupiscence, did not the law say. Thou shalt not 
covet”? 

25. Consider the whole of this last passage, and see whether 
it has any reference at ail to circumcision, sabbath or any 
ordinance that is a "'shadow of things to come”;^^ or is not 
entirely concerned to show that the letter forbidding sin does 
not give life to man, but rather kiUs through increasing con- 
cupiscence and filling up iniquity with transgression — did not 
grace bring deliverance through the law of faith which is in 
Christ Jesus, when charity is shed abroad in our hearts through 
the Holy Spirit which is given to us. 

Paul has just said'^o; ‘‘that we should serve in newness of 
spirit and not in the oldness of the letter.” And he continues: 
""What shall we say then? Is the law sin? God forbid. Nay, I 
have not known sin but by the law: for I was unaware of con- 
cupiscence, did not the law say. Thou shalt not covet. But sin, 
finding its opportunity through the commandment, worked in 
me all manner of concupiscence. For without the law sin is dead. 
At one time I lived without the law; but when the command- 
er Rom. 5:20 67 Rom 8:6. 

68 Rom. 4, 15; 5:13; 3:20; 7:7. «Heb 10:1. 


70 Rom. 7:6 ff. 



THE SPIRIT AND THE LETTER 215 

ment came, sin revived, and I died. And the commandment 
which was ordained unto life, I found to be unto death. For sin, 
finding its opportunity through the commandment, deceived 
me, and by it slew me. So the law indeed is holy, and the com- 
mandment is holy and just and good. Was then that which is 
good made death unto me? God forbid. But sin, that it may 
appear sin, has worked death for me through that which is 
good; that sin through the commandment may become exceed- 
ing sinful. For we know that the law is spiritual; but I am carnal, 
sold under sin. For that which I work, I know not; for what I 
would, that do I not, but what I hate, that I do. If then I do 
that which I would not, I consent unto the law that it is good. 
But as it is, it is no more I that work it, but sm that dwelleth in 
me. For I know that in me, that is in my flesh, good dwelleth 
not; for to will is present with me, but to perform the good is 
not. For the good that I would I do not, but the evil which I 
would not, that I do. Now if I do that which I would not, it is 
no more I that work it, but sin that dwelleth in me. I find then 
a law, that when I would do good, evil is present with me. For I 
delight in the law of God after the inward man: but I see an- 
other law in my members, warring against the law of my mind 
and making me captive in the law of sm which is in my mem- 
bers. O wretched man that I am! who shall dehver me from the 
body of this death^ — The grace of God,'^! through Jesus Christ 
our Lord. Therefore I myself with the mind serve the law of 
God, but with the flesh the law of sin.” 

26. Thus it is manifest that the ^'oldness of the letter,” if the 
^'newness of the spirit” be lacking, rather makes men guilty by 
the knowledge of sm than delivers them from sin: with which 
agrees the saying in another place, “He that addeth to knowledge, 
addeth to sorrow.” ^ 2 ]vjQt that the law itself is an evil thing, 
but that it holds the good commandment in the letter that 
demonstrates, not in the spirit that brings aid. And if the com- 
mandment be done through fear of penalty and not through 
love of righteousness, it is done in the temper of servitude not 
freedom — and therefore it is not done at all.'^^ For there is no 
good fruit which does not rise from the root of charity. The man 
in whom is the faith that works through love,'^'^ begins to delight 
in the law of God after the inward man; and that delight is a 

71 So the Latin versions, in place of “I thank God” or 'Thanks be to God” 
in the Greek. 72 Eccl 1 : 18 . ^ 

73 Because the "new commandment” is the paradoxical command to love. 

74 Gal 5 6 . 



AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


216 

gift not of the letter but of the spirit. It will work, even though 
there be still another law in the members warring against the 
law of the mind, until all that is old be changed and pass into 
that newness which day by day has increase in the inward man, 
as the grace of God delivers us from the body of this death 
through Jesus Christ our Lord. 

27 (xv). This grace lay hidden in the Old Testament under 
a veil. It is revealed in the gospel of Christ, according to that 
perfectly ordered dispensation of history by which the wisdom 
of God disposes all things in their time. Perhaps we may discern 
its concealment in the fact that in the Decalogue given on 
Mount Sinai the only thing hidden under a figurative command 
is that which concerns the Sabbath. The Sabbath is a day of 
sanctification. It is not for nothing that among all the works 
which God made, the word * 'sanctification’’ is uttered first at 
that point when he rested from all his works. This is not the 
place to discuss that matter: it is enough for our present ques- 
tion to observe that with good reason was the people com- 
manded to abstain on that day from all "servile work,” which 
signifies sin; for to abstain from sin belongs to sanctification, 
that is, to the gift of God through the Holy Spirit. And this 
alone among the commandments of the law, written on the 
two tables of stone, is set under the shadow of a figure, whereby 
the Jews observe the Sabbath: to signify that in that time there 
was a hiding away of that grace which was to be revealed in the 
New Testament, through Christ’s passion, as by the rending of 
the veil. *77 Jor "when thou shalt pass over unto Christ,” says 
Paul, "the veil shall be taken away. 28 (xvi). Now the Lord 
is the Spirit; and where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is 
liberty.” 

This is the Spirit of God by whose gift we are justified. 
Hereby it comes to pass in us that we find our delight m not 
sinning — ^which means liberty, whereas apart from the Spirit 
we find delight in sinning — ^which means servitude, from the 
works of which we are to abstain, that is, keep Sabbath m 
the spirit. That Holy Spirit, through whom charity which is the 
fulness of the law is shed abroad in our hearts, is also called in 
the Gospel the finger of God.'^® That those tables of the law 
were written by the finger of God, and that the finger of God is 
God’s Spirit through whom we are sanctified, so that Kving by 
faith we may do good works through love — how striking here is 

75 Gen. 2:3. 7<5 Lev. 23:7, etc. 77 Matt. 27.51. 

78 II Cor. 3: 16 f. 79 Luke 11.20. 



THE SPIRIT AND THE LETTER 217 

at once the agreement and the difference! Fifty days are 
counted from the celebration of Passover, which was com- 
manded through Moses to be a figure, signifying by the killing 
of a lamb the Lord’s passion that was to be, unto the day when 
Moses received the law on tables written by the finger of 
God SO; and in like manner after the fulfilment of fifty days from 
the killing and the resurrection of him who was ‘'‘led as a lamb 
to the slaughter,” si the faithful assembled together were filled 
by the finger of God which is the Holy Spirit. 

29 (xvii). In this wonderful agreement there is the very 
great difference, that in the Old Testament the people is held 
back by a fearful dread from approaching the place where the 
law was given s 2; whereas in the New the Holy Spirit comes 
upon those who were assembled together waiting for his 
promised coming. There the finger of God worked upon tables 
of stone: here upon the hearts of men. So there the law was set 
outside men to be a terror to the unjust: here it was given within 
them to be their justification. “For this: thou shalt not commit 
adultery, thou shalt do no murder, thou shalt not covet, and if 
there be any other commandment” — ^written, as we know, upon 
those Tables — ‘'ht is briefly comprehended,” said the apostle, 
“in this saying: Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. Love 
worketh not a neighbour’s ill: and charity is the fulness of the 
law.” S 3 This law is not written on tables of stone, but is shed 
abroad in our hearts through the Holy Spirit which is given to 
us. Therefore the law of God is charity. To it the mind of the 
flesh is not subject, neither indeed can be®^; but when, to put 
fear into the mind of the flesh, the works of charity are written 
upon tables, we have the law of works, the letter killing the 
tiansgressor: when charity itself is shed abroad in the heart of 
believers, we have the law of faith, the Spirit giving life to the 
lover. 

30. Now observe the tallying of this distinction with those 
words of the apostle which we quoted a while ago for another 
purpose, and postponed their closer consideration. ‘‘Ye are 
manifestly declared to be the epistle of Christ ministered by us, 
written not with ink but with the Spirit of the living God, not in 
tables of stone, but in fleshy tables of the heart.” He points, you 
see, to the fact that the one is written outside the man, to be a 

80 Deut. 16:9 ff; the harvest festival of Pentecost was held in later Judaism 

to commemorate the giving of the Law. 

81 Isa. 53 7. 82 Ex. 19. 10 ff. 

84 Rom. 8.7. 


83 Rom. 13:9 f. 
85 II Cor. 3 3 ff 



AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


218 

terror to him from without, while the other is written in the man 
himself, to justify him from within. By the “fleshy tables of the 
heart/’ he means not those of the “mind of the flesh/’ but that 
which IS hving and conscious in contrast with the unfeeling 
stone. When he says further on that “the children of Israel could 
not stedfastly behold the face of Moses/’ who therefore spoke 
to them through a veil, that signifies that the letter of the law 
justifies no man; but a veil is set over the reading of the Old 
Testament, until we pass over unto Christ and the veil is taken 
away: that is, pass over unto grace, and understand that from 
him we have the justification whereby we do what he com- 
mands. He commands, in order that we may take refuge with 
him when in ourselves we fail. And so when Paul has said that 
“we have such confidence through Chnst unto God,” he is most 
careful to add at once his explanation, lest this be attributed to 
our own strength: “not that we are fitted to think anything as 
of ourselves; but our sufficiency is of God, who also hath made 
us fit ministers of the New Testament — not of the letter, but of 
the Spirit, for the letter killeth, but the Spirit giveth life.” 

31 (xviii). Accordingly it is because the law, as he says 
elsewhere, “was set because of transgression,” that is, the 
letter written outside the man, that he calls it the ministration 
of death and the ministration of condemnation; whereas the 
other, that of the New Testament, he calls the ministration of 
the spirit and the ministration of righteousness, because through 
the gift of the Spirit we work righteousness and are delivered 
from the condemnation of transgression. So the one is done away, 
while the other remains, since the tutor who puts in fear 87 shall 
be removed when fear has given place to charity: for “where the 
Spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty.” That this ministration 
proceeds not from our deservings, but from mercy, is stated 
thus: “Therefore seeing that we have this ministration, as hav- 
ing obtained mercy, let us not be weakened, but cast away the 
hidden things of confusion, not walking in craftiness nor falsify- 
ing the word of God by deceit.” By this craftiness and deceit he 
indicates that hypocrisy of the proud will that seeks to be 
accounted righteous. So in the Psalm which our apostle quotes 
in testimony of this same grace, we read: “Blessed is he to 
whom the Lord hath not imputed sin, nor is there deceit in his 
mouth.” 88 That is the confession of humble saints, not boasting 
themselves to be what they are not. And so Paul continues: 
“For we preach not ourselves but Jesus Christ as Lord, and 
86 Gal. 3*19. 87 Gal. 3 25, ss Ps. 32 2, Rom. 4 8. 



THE SPIRIT AND THE LETTER SIQ 

ourselves as your servants for Jesus’ sake: because God, who com- 
manded the light to shine out of darkness, hath shined in our 
hearts the light of the knowledge of his glory upon the face of 
Jesus Christ.” It is the knowledge of his glory v/hereby we know 
that he is the light by which our darkness is enlightened. Ob- 
serve how he insists upon this very point. ‘‘But we have this 
treasure in earthen vessels, that the excellency of the power may 
be God’s and not of us.” Then, in more copious enlargement 
upon the same grace in the Lord Jesus Christ, he goes on to 
speak of that clothing with the righteousness of faith, clothed 
wherewithal we may not be found naked, and how for this 
cause we groan, burdened as we are with mortality and desiring 
to be clothed upon with our house which is from heaven, that 
what is mortal may be swallowed up of life. And he adds: “Now 
he that hath wrought us for the self-same thing is God, who hath 
given us the earnest of the Spirit;” and later concludes: “that 
we may be the righteousness of God in him” — the righteousness 
of God, not that by which he is righteous but that by which we 
are made so by him. 

32 (xix). This and this only is the Christian faith, from 
which no Christian should stray. A man may shrink from saying 
in so many words that we make ourselves righteous without the 
grace of God working the same m us, because he sees such 
claims to be intolerable to the faithful and devout. But we must 
refuse the argument that we cannot be righteous without the 
operation of God’s grace, merely because God gave the law, 
instituted the teaching, delivered good precepts. For all this, 
apart from the Spirit’s aid, is indubitably the letter that killeth: 
only when the life-giving Spirit is present, does he cause to be 
written within, and loved, that which when it was written 
externally the law caused to be feared. 

33. Look for a moment at the magnificent testimony ren- 
dered to this truth in the words of the prophet. ^ 9 ‘‘^Behold, the 
days come, saith the Lord, when I will consummate upon the 
house of Israel and the house of Judah a new covenant, not 
according to the covenant that I made for their fathers in the 
day when I took their hand to bring them forth from the land 
of Egypt; because they have not continued in my covenant, and 
I have let them go, saith the Lord. For this is the covenant that 
I will ordain for the house of Israel: after those days, saith the 
Lord, I will put my laws into their heart and will write them 
upon their mind; and I will be their God and they shall be my 

Jer. 31 31 ff. 



220 


AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


people. And they shall teach no more every man his neighbour 
and every man Ids brother, saying. Know the Lord. For all shall 
know me, from the least of them unto the greatest of them; be- 
cause I will forgive their iniquity, and their sins will I remember 
no more.” 

What shall we say of this? In the Old Testament it is difficult 
if not impossible to find outside this prophetic passage any men- 
tion of the new covenant in express terms. In many places it 
is signified or predicted, but not by its actual name. Consider 
then carefully the difference between the two covenants, the 
old and the new, to which God here bears witness. 

34. After the words: “not according to the covenant that I 
made for their fathers in the day when I took their hand to 
bring them forth from the land of Egypt”: it goes on: “because 
they have not continued in my covenant.” It is accounted their 
fault that they have not abided by the covenant of God; lest it 
should appear that the law which then they received was to be 
blamed. It is the same law which Christ came not to destroy 
but to fulfil: though the ungodly are justified not through that 
law but through grace — that is by the action of the life-giving 
Spirit, apart from whom the letter kills. “For if there had been 
a law given which could have given life, righteousness would be 
altogether by the law. But the scripture hath shut up all under 
sin, that the promise by faith of Jesus Christ might be given to 
them that believe.” By this promise, that is, by the goodness 
of God, the law is fulfilled. Without it, men are made trans- 
gressors, whether in the actual doing of the evil work, where the 
flame of concupiscence has swept across the barrier of fear, or 
at least in the will, if fear of punishment overcomes the attrac- 
tion of desire. The saying, that “the scripture hath shut up all 
under sm, that the promise by faith of Jesus Christ might be 
given to them that believe,” shows the advantage of the “shut- 
ting up”; it is for the purpose presently named, “before faith 
came, we were kept in ward under the law, shut up unto the 
faith which afterwards hath been revealed.” The law was given 
that grace might be sought; grace was given that the law might 
be fulfilled. For the non-fulfilment of the law was not through 
its own fault, but the fault of the “mind of the flesh” — a fault 
which the law must exhibit, and grace must heal. “What the 
law could not do, in that it was made weak through the flesh, 
God sent his Son in the likeness of the flesh of sin, and in regard 
to sin condemned sin in the flesh; that the righteousness of the 

90 Gal. 3.21 ff. 



THE SPIRIT AND THE LETTER 221 

law might be fulfilled in us, who walk not according to the flesh 
but according to the spirit.” So we read in the prophetic 
testimony: ‘‘I will consummate upon the house of Israel and 
upon the house of Judah a new covenant” — ‘^consummate” 
meaning “fulfil” — “not according to the covenant that I made 
for their fathers, in the day that I took their hand to bring them 
forth from the land of Egypt.” 

35. (xx). This was the “old” covenant, because the other 
is “new”; but why should they be distinguished as “old” and 
“new,” if through the new covenant is fulfilled the same law 
which in the old said: “Thou shalt not covet”? The answer is, 
that “they have not continued in my covenant, and I have let 
them go, saith the Lord.” It is because of the sickness of the old 
man, which the commands and the threatenings of the letter 
did nothing to heal, that the former covenant is called old, and 
the latter new with the newness of the Spirit, which heals the 
new man from his old failing. The words that follow set in the 
clearest light that truth which the self-confident refuse to look 
upon, “For this is the covenant that I will ordain for the house 
of Israel: after those days, saith the Lord, I will put my laws 
into their heart, and will write them upon their mind.” Now we 
understand those words of the apostle, above quoted: “not on 
tables of stone, but on tables of the heart,” because “not with 
ink, but by the Spirit of the living God.” The reason, surely, for 
his mentioning the new covenant in this passage — where he 
says: “who also hath made us fit ministers of the new covenant, 
not of the letter but of the spirit” — must be that he had this 
prophecy in mind when he wrote the words, “not on tables of 
stone but on fleshy tables of the heart.” For in the same prophecy 
where the new covenant is promised by that name, it is also 
said: “I will write them upon their hearts.” 

36 (xxi). It follows that the laws of God, written by God 
himself upon the heart, are nothing but the very presence of the 
Holy Spirit who is the finger of God; the presence by which 
charity, the fulness of the law and the end of the command- 
ment, is shed abroad in our hearts. The promises of the old 
covenant are earthly promises. Certain of its ordinances were 
shadows of things to come, such as circumcision, the sabbath 
and other observances of days, rules as to particular foods, and 
the manifold ceremonial of sacrifices and holy rites, adapted 
to the old era of a fleshly law and the yoke of servitude. It is 
true that apart from these the old covenant contained precepts 

91 Rom. 8*3 ff. 



222 


AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


of righteousness such as we are still enjoined to observe, 
especially those which are set forth in the two Tables with a 
literal and not allegorical significance: as “thou shalt not com- 
mit adultery, thou shalt do no murder, thou shalt not covet, 
and any other commandment which is summed up in this say- 
ing: thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself/’ Nevertheless, 
the promises there announced, as I have said, are earthly and 
temporal, good things of this corruptible flesh, even though they 
may be figures of the eternal and heavenly goods belonging to 
the new covenant* Whereas now there is promised a good of the 
heart itself, a good of the mind, a spiritual good, in the words 
“put my laws in their mind and write them in their hearts.” 
They are to receive, in other words, not a law that menaces 
from without of which they must be m fear, but the very law of 
righteousness dwelling widiin them which they are to love. 

37 (xxii). Finally, we are told of the reward: “I will be 
their God, and they shall be my people.” This is that reward of 
which the psalmist speaks in his prayer. “For me to cleave unto 
God is good.” — “I will be their God, and they shall be my 
people.” There can be no better good, no happier happiness 
than this* life for God, hfe from God, with whom is the well 
of life, in whose light we shall see hght.^^ Of that life the Lord 
himself says: “This is hfe eternal, that they may know thee the 
one true God, and Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent” — that 
is, “thee and Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent, the one 
true God,” 55 That is his own promise to his lovers: “He that 
loveth me, keepeth my commandments; and he that loveth me 
is loved of my Father, and I will love him and will show myself 
unto him” 56 — show lumself in the form of God whereby he is 
equal to the Father, not in the form of a servant whereby he 
showed himself to the ungodly also. For then shall it be done as 
it was written: “let the ungodly be taken away, that he see not 
the glory of the Lord,” 57 when they on the left hand shall go 
into everlasting fire, but the righteous into life eternal. We have 
heard the definition of eternal life: “that they may know the 
one true God.” With this agrees the saying of John: “Beloved, 
we are the sons of God, and it hath not yet appeared what we 
shall be. We know that when he appears, we shall be like him, 
for we shall see him as he is.”58 That likeness begins now to be 

92 Rom. 13:9. 93 Ps. 73-28. 94 Ps. 36-9. 

95 John 17:3; Augustine twists the text to make it conform to orthodox 
doctrine. 

96 John 14.21. 97 Isa. 26:10. 98 I John 3.2. 



THE SPIRIT AND THE LETTER 223 

formed again, while man is renewed within from day unto day 
according to the image of him who created him.99 

38 (xxiii). But between this and the perfection of that 
excellency which is then to be, what comparison is possible? 
The apostle, applying to those unspeakable things such distant 
analogy as he may from the familiar world, contrasts the age of 
infancy with the age of manhood, ‘‘When I was a child, I spake 
as a child, I understood as a child, I thought as a child: but 
when I became a man, I put away childish things”; and he goes 
on to point the bearing of his parable: “now we see in a mirror 
darkly, but then face to face; now I know in part, but then shall 
I know as also I have been known.” ^ 

39 (xxiv). In the same way, the word given to the prophet 
whose testimony we are examining leads to this indication that in 
God is our reward, in God our end, in God the perfection of our 
happiness, in God the sum of blessed and eternal life. After the 
saying: “I will be their God, and they shall be my people,” 
there follows immediately: “and they shall not teach every man 
his neighbour and every man his brother, saying. Know the 
Lord; for they shall all know me, from the least unto the greatest 
of them.” Assuredly, the time of the new covenant, promised 
through the prophet in the words of the passage quoted, is 
already here with us. Why then is it still said by everyone to his 
neighbour and his brother. Know the Lord? Is it not said, when 
the gospel is preached, when it is the very aim of the gospel’s 
preaching that this be said everywhere? Does not the apostle 
call himself the teacher of the Gentiles, because it is happening 
as he says: “How shall they call on him in whom they have not 
believed? or how can they believe in him whom they have not 
heard? and how shall they hear without a preacher?”^ Since 
then this preaching is now multiplied in all the world, how can 
it be the time of the new covenant, of which the prophet has 
written: “they shall not teach every man his neighbour and 
every man his brother, saying, Know the Lord; for they shall 
all know me, from the least unto the greatest of them”? We can 
only understand that here has been added the promise of that 
same new covenant’s eternal reward, which is the most blessed 
contemplation of God himself. 

40. “All, from the least unto the greatest of them,” will then 
mean all who spiritually belong to the house of Israel and the 
house of Judah — that is, the sons of Isaac, the seed of Abraham. 
For that is the promise given in the words. “In Isaac shall thy 
99 Col. 3:10; II Cor, 4:16. 1 I Cor. 13:11 fF. ^ Rom. 10:14. 



AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


224 

seed be called. For they which are sons of the flesh are not the 
sons of God, but the sons of promise are counted for the seed. 
And this is the word of promise: At this time will I come, and 
Sara shall have a son. And not only this, but Rebecca also, con- 
ceiving by our father Isaac two children at one time: of whom 
when they were not yet bom, nor had done anything good or 
evil, that the purpose of God according to election might stand, 
not of works, but of him that calleth, it was said unto her that 
the elder shall serve the younger.” ^ That is the house of Israel or 
the house of Judah (because of Christ’s coming of the tribe of 
Judah), the house of the sons of promise — ^which means a house 
founded not on their own works but on the gracious act of God. 
For God promises that which he does himself: the promise is not 
his and the doing another’s — ^which would be predicting, not 
promising. So it is “not of works, but of him that calleth,” that 
it be not their own doing instead of God’s, lest the reward be 
reckoned not of grace but of debt,^ and so grace be no more 
grace — grace, whose powerful vindicator and maintainer is the 
“least of the apostles,” who laboured more than they all, yet 
not he but the grace of God with him.^ To return to the text: 
“they shall all know me.” “All” are the house of Israel and the 
house of Judah; inasmuch as not all are Israel that are of Israel, 
but those who are addressed in the Psalm entitled “For taking 
up in the morning” — ^which we may interpret “For the new 
dawn,” or the dawn of the new covenant: “Magnify him, the 
whole seed of Jacob: let all the seed of Israel fear him.” « The 
whole seed without exception, tmly all the seed of the promised 
and the called — but “the called according to his purpose.” For 
“whom he did predestinate, them he also called; and whom he 
called, them he also justified; and whom he justified, them he 
also glorified.” “Therefore it is of faith, that according to grace 
the promise may be sure to all the seed, not to that only which 
is of the law” — ^which descends from the old covenant to the 
new — “but to that also which is of faith” — ^not a seed which has 
already received the law, but “of the faith of Abraham,” that 
is, to those that copy the faith of Abraham, “who is the father of 
us all, as it is written, I have set thee as a father of many 
nations.” 8 — In sum, these all, predestinate, called, justified, 
glorified, shall know God through the grace of the new covenant, 
from the least unto the greatest of them. 

3 Rom. 9:7 fF. * Rom. 4:4. s I Cor. 15.9 f. 

* Ps_. 22.33; for the title, cf. R.V. mg. — The LXX gives “for the momuig 
Slid.”. 7 Rom. 8 28, 30 * Rom. 4* 16 f. 



THE SPIRIT AND THE LETTER 


225 

41. Thus the law of works, written on tables of stone, and its 
reward in the land of promise which the house of Israel accord- 
ing to the flesh received after it was dehvered out of Egypt, be- 
longs to the old covenant; whereas the law of faith written in 
the heart, and its reward in the immediate vision of God which 
the spiritual house of Israel shall enjoy when it is delivered from 
this world, belongs to the new covenant. For then it shall be as 
the apostle says: ‘Whether there be prophecies, they shall be 
brought to nought, whether there be tongues, they shall cease, 
whether there be knowledge, it shall be brought to nought.” ^ 
He speaks of that knowledge of children, in which our life here 
passes, a knowledge “in part, through a mirror darkly.” For 
because of it prophecy is needed, while past still gives place to 
future; because of it there is use for tongues, the variety of mean- 
ings whereby one thing is conveyed by another in allegory to 
the mind that cannot yet contemplate in purity the eternal light 
of transparent truth. But “when that which is perfect has come,” 
and all that is in part has been done away, then the Word, 
which took flesh to appear to flesh, shall show himself to his 
lovers; then it will be life eternal for us to know the one true 
God; then we shall be like him, for then we shall know as we 
have been known; then “they shall not teach every man his 
neighbour and every man his brother, saying Know the Lord; 
for they shall all know him, from the least of them unto the 
greatest of them.” 

We may understand this in more than one sense. Perhaps it 
means that there also the saints differ from one another in glory, 
as star from star.^o It is all one whether we say “from the least 
unto the greatest,” or “from the greatest unto the least”; and 
this will hold, if we should understand by the “least” those who 
have attained only to faith, and by the “greatest” those who 
have reached also to such understanding as in tliis life is possible 
of the incorporeal and changeless Light.^ 1 Or may be the “least” 
means the later m time, and the “greatest” the earlier; for all at 
once are to receive the promised vision of God, because “they 
also foresaw better things for us, that without us they should not 
be made perfect” 12 — and so the “least” are found to be the 
“first,” since their waiting has been less, as in the Gospel par- 
able of the penny received first by those who came last into the 

I Cor. 13*8 ff. 10 I Cor. 15:41. 

u For Augustine’s distinction of “faith” and “understanding,” see De Tnn , 

Introduction, p. pp. 22 f , 35. 

12 Heb 11:40. 



226 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

vineyard. And there may well be some other way of which I 
cannot at the moment think, of taking ‘‘least” and “greatest” 
in the text. 

42 (xxv). The point I have so laboriously endeavoured to 
make clear, and on which I would have you concentrate your 
mind, is this. In this promise of a new covenant, not according 
to the covenant before made with the people of Israel upon their 
deliverance from Egypt, the prophet has nothing to say of a 
change of sacrifices or outward ordinances of any kind; although 
that change was certainly to ensue in the manner we now see, 
to which the same prophetic scripture in many other places 
bears witness. He insists only upon this great difference between 
old and new: that God would put his laws into the mind of 
those who should belong to the new covenant, and write them 
on their hearts (whence the apostle drew his “not with ink but 
with the spirit of the living God, not on tables of stone, but on 
fleshy tables of the heart”); and that the everlasting reward of 
this “justification” or being made righteous is not the land 
from which were driven Amorites, Hittites and the rest of the 
nations recorded as dwelling in it, but God himself, unto whom 
to cleave is good, the love of whose goodness is the love of him- 
self, from whom men are separated by nothing but their sins, 
which are remitted only by his grace. That is why the words 
*‘they shall all know me, from the least of them unto the greatest 
of them,” are followed by the promise: “I will forgive their 
iniquity, and their sins I will remember no more.” By the law 
of works the Lord says, “Thou shalt not covet.” By the law of 
faith the Lord says, “Without me ye can do nothing” — meaning 
the good works which are the fruit of the vine-branches. 

Grasp this clear difference between the old covenant and the 
new: that there the law is written upon tables, here upon 
hearts, so that the fear imposed by the first from without be- 
comes the delight inspired by the second from within, and he 
whom the letter that killeth there made a transgressor, is here 
made a lover by the Spirit that giveth life. Then you can no 
longer say that God assists us in the working of righteousness 
and works in us both to will and to do according to his good 
pleasure, inasmuch as he makes us hear with the outward sense 
the commandments of righteousness. No, it is because he gives 
increase within us, by the shedding abroad of charity in our 
hearts through the Holy Spirit which is given to us. 

43 (xxvi). A difficulty, however, may be raised by the 

13 Matt. 20.8 ff. 14 John 15*5 



THE SPIRIT AND THE LETTER 


227 

apostle’s words: “When the Gentiles, which have not the law, 
do by nature the things contained in the law, these, having not 
the law, are a law unto themselves: which show the work of the 
law written in their hearts.” is Does not this obscure the differ- 
ence of the new covenant in which the Lord promised to write 
his laws in the hearts of his people — ^if the Gentiles have that 
by nature? We are presented with a serious problem, which is 
not to be shirked. The argument will run: If God distinguishes 
the new covenant from the old, in that he wrote his law upon 
tables in the old covenant, but upon hearts in the new, how are 
the faithful of the new covenant istinguished from the Gentiles, 
who have the word of the law written in their hearts, by which 
they do by nature the things contained in the law? It would 
seem that they have the advantage over the old Israel who re- 
ceived the law upon tables, and the priority over the new, to 
whom is conferred by the new covenant only that which nature 
has conferred upon the Gentiles. 

44. It is possible that the Gentiles of whom the apostle speaks 
as having the law written in their hearts are those who belong 
to the new covenant. Let us see how he comes to speak of them. 
First, he sets out the virtue of his gospel: “It is the power of God 
unto salvation to every man that believeth, to the Jew first and 
also to the Greek. For the righteousness of God is revealed in it 
from faith to faith, as it is written: The just liveth by faith.” 1® 
Then he speaks of the ungodly whose pride made even the 
knowledge of God of no avail to them, because they glorified 
him not as God nor gaye thanks. Then he passes to those who 
judge and yet do the things which they condemn. This no doubt 
refers to the Jews, who made their boast in the law of God; 
though he does not at first name them expressly. “Wrath and 
indignation,” he says, “tribulation and anguish upon every 
soul of man that doeth evil, of the Jew first, and also of the 
Greek; but glory, honour, and peace to every man that worketh 
good, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek: for there is no 
acceptance of persons with God. For as many as have sinned 
without law shall perish without law; and as many as have 
sinned in the law shall be judged by the law. For not the 
hearers of the law are just before God, but the doers of the law 
shall be justified.” 17 And this brings him to the matter of our 
question. He goes on: “For when Ae Gentiles which have not 
the law, do by nature the things contained in the law . . 
and so on as above quoted. Accordingly we may think that 
1® Rom. 2:14 f. i<> Rom. i : 16 £ n Rom. 2:8 fF. 



228 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

those here called Gentiles are none other than those before 
referred to under the name of “Greek,” in the phrase “to the 
Jew first and also to the Greek,” The gospel is “the power of 
God unto salvation to every man that beheveth, the Jew first and 
also the Greek,” but “wrath and indignation, tribulation and 
anguish upon every soul of man that doeth evil, of the Jew first 
and also of the Greek, but glory, honour and peace to every 
man that worketh good, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek.” 
Now if it is this Greek who is signified under the Gentiles who 
do by nature the things contained in the law and have the work 
of the law written in their hearts, clearly these Gentiles who 
have the law written in their hearts belong to the gospel: they 
are believers to whom it is the power of God unto salvation. 
How could Paul promise glory, honour and peace to the good 
works of Gentiles placed outside the grace of the gospel? Be- 
cause there is no acceptance of persons with God, and not the 
hearers but the doers of the law are justified, he argues that all, 
whether Jew or Greek (that is, all behevers of the Gentiles), 
shall alike have salvation in the gospel. “For there is no differ- 
ence,” as he says later: “all have sinned and are in want of tlie 
glory of God, being justified freely by his grace.” How could 
he maintain that the Greek doer of the law is justified apart 
from the grace of the Saviour? 

45. The words “the doers of the law shall be justified” cannot 
mean that they are justified by works and not by grace: that 
would be to contradict his own statement that a man is justified 
freely by faith apart from the works of the law^® — ^where the 
word “freely” means simply that works do not come before 
justification. This he makes plain in another place: “if by grace, 
then not of works: else grace would be no longer grace.”®® That 
“the doers of the law shall be justified” must be taken in the 
sense that they can be doers of the law if, and only if, they be 
justified: so that justification dqes not follow but precede the 
doing. The word “justified” is equivalent to “made righteous” 
— made righteous by him who justifies the ungodly, so that he 
who was ungodly becomes righteous. The statement “men s h^ll 
be made free” could only be understood to mean that freedom 
comes to persons who are already men. But the statement “men 
shall be created” could not possibly denote the creation of 
already existing men: it means the bringing of men into being 
as such by the act of creation. Similarly, if we were told that 
“the doers of the law shall be honoured,” we should properly 
«Roin. 3:aaf. » Rom. 3:38. ®o Rom. 11:6. 



THE SPIRIT AND THE LETTER 229 

■understand that honour is to be given to those who are already 
doers of the law. But to say that “the doers of the law shall be 
justified’’ is equivalent to saying that “the just shall be justified”; 
for doers of the law are ipso facto We must take it therefore 
in the same way as we should understand “the doers of the law 
shall be created” : not because they were, but in order that they 
may be. So it should be made clear even to the Jewish hearers 
of the law that they need the grace of the justifier in order that 
they may become doers. 21 Alternatively, we must suppose that 
“shall be justified” here means “shall be held just,” “shall be 
accounted just”; as in the case of the lawyer in Luke of whom we 
read, “and he, willing to justify himself . . 22 that is, with a 

view to being held or accounted just. So we say that God “sanc- 
tifies his saints” in a sense different from that of the prayer “let 
thy name be sanctified.” In the one case, “sanctify” means 
that God himself makes saints of men who were not saints: in 
the other, we pray that what is ever holy in itself may be held 
by men as holy, may be feared in holy wise. 

46. In speaking, then, of Gentiles who do by nature the 
things contained in the law, and have the work of the law writ- 
ten m their hearts, Paul may have intended those who believe 
in Christ, because they come to the faith without having re- 
ceived the law beforehand as the Jews. Then we have no need 
to distinguish them from those to whom the Lord promised the 
new covenant by the prophet, saying that he would write his 
laws in their hearts; because they also, by the grafting done to 
the wild olive, belong to the one olive tree, the one people of 
God. 24 In this way the apostolic testimony will be in accord 
with the prophetic: to belong to the new covenant will be to 
have the law of God written not on tables but on hearts, that is, 
to embrace with inward affection the righteousness of the law, 
in which faith works through love. For God justifies the Gen- 
tiles by faith, as Scripture foresees in the prediction to Abraham 
that “in thy seed shall all the nations be blessed.” 25 By this 
grace of the promise, the wild olive was to be grafted into the 
olive tree, and the faithful Gentiles become sons of Abraham in 
Abraham’s seed, which is Christ 26 : following the faith of him, 
who before any law was given upon tables, and not yet having 

21 This characteristically over-subtle piece of exegesis is the result of 
Augustine’s misunderstanding of the Pauline “justification.” In what 
follows here he glances at the possibility of a forensic interpretation of the 
word. 22 Luke 10*29. 23 Matt. 6:9. 

24 Rom. 11:24. Gtn. 12:3. 26 Gal. 3:8, 16. 



AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


230 

received circumcision, “believed God, and it was accounted to 
him for righteousness.”^? So the saying of the apostle about 
these Gentiles, that they have the work of the law written in 
their hearts, will be comparable with his words to the Corin- 
thians: “not on tables of stone, but on fleshy tables of the heart.” 
They become members of the house of Israel, when their uncir- 
cumcision is counted for circumcision, inasmuch as they do not 
display the righteousness of the law by the cutting of the flesh, 
but keep it in charity of heart: for “if the uncircumcision keeps 
the righteous requirements of the law, will not its uncircum- 
dsion be counted for circumcision?” Therefore they are 
sharers in the new covenant in the house of the true Israel 
wherein is no guile; because God puts his laws in their minds 
and writes them in their hearts with his finger, the Holy Spirit, 
by whom there is shed abroad in those hearts the charity which 
is the fulness of the law. 

47 (xxvii). This interpretation need not be disturbed by 
the saying of the text that they do the things contained in the 
law “by nature” — ^not by the Spirit of God, by faith, or by 
grace. For it is the work of the Spirit of grace to renew in us the 
image of God, in which “by nature” we were made. The fault 
in man is contrary to his nature, and is just that which grace 
heals — the grace besought in the prayer: “Have mercy on me, 
heal my soul, for I have sinned against thee.” 29 Accordingly it 
is always “by nature” that men do the things contained in the 
law: those who fail so to do, fail by their own fault. By that 
fault the law of God was effaced from men’s hearts; and so when 
it is written there through the heahng of the fault, the things 
contained m the law are done “by nature” — ^not that nature is 
the denial of grace, but that grace is the mending of nature. For 
“by one man sin entered into the world, and through sin death, 
(and so it passed into all men), in whom all sinned.” There- 
fore, since “there is no difference,” all are “m want of the glory 
of God, being justified freely by his grace.” By grace the 
righteousness which guilt had effaced is written in the inward 
man thus renewed; and this is God’s mercy upon the human 
race through Jesus Christ our Lord. “For there is one God, and 
one mediator also between God and men, the man Christ 
Jesus.” 32 

2? Gen. I 5 ' 6 . 28 Rom. 2:26. 29 Ps. 41 '4. 

39 Rom. 5:12. The m quo orrmes pecccaiermt of Augustine's Latin version 

misrepresents the original Greek. 

31 Rom. 3:22 ff 32 I Tim 2 5. 



THE SPIRIT AND THE LETTER 


231 

48 . If this interpretation is rejected, and if those who “do by 
nature the things contained in the law” are not to be reckoned 
among those who are justified by the grace of Christ, then they 
must belong to the number of the heathen who worship not the 
true God in truth and righteousness, and yet do some things 
(known to us from books, observation, or report) which judged 
by the standaird of right conduct call not only for the withholding 
of blame but even for merited and proper commendation. It is 
true that enquiry into the end or purpose of such actions would 
make it less easy to discover any that deserve the praise or the 
defence due to genuine righteousness. ^ 3 

(xxviii). Yet we must remember that the image of God in 
the human soul has not been so completely obhterated by the 
stain of earthly affections, that no faint outhnes of the original 
remain therein; and therefore it can rightly be said even in the 
ungodliness of its life to do or to hold some parts of the law. 
This may possibly be meant by the saying that the Gentiles, who 
have not the law (that is, the law of God) do by nature the 
things contained in the law, and that such men are a law unto 
themselves, and have the work of the law written in their 
hearts: namely, that the imprint of God’s image in their creation 
has not been altogether effaced. 3 < But even so there will be no 
shaking of the difference between old and new covenant, 
whereby the writing of the law of God in the hearts of the faith- 
ful through the new is opposed to its writing upon tables through 
the old. For what is now written by way of renewal is what was 
not altogether effaced by growing old. Just as by the new 
covenant there is a renewal in the mind of believers of that very 
image of God which ungodliness had not entirely done away — 
at the least there remained the essential rationality of the human 
soul — so even here what is written is undoubtedly that law of 
God which was never quite effaced by unrighteousness and now 
is renewed by grace. This writing, which is justification, could 
not be made effective in the Jews by the law written on tables: 
its effect was only transgression. Men indeed they were, and 
there was in them that natural impulse which gives the rational 
creature both a certain awareness of what is lawful and a certain 

33 Augustine could say {De Cw., XIX, 25) that the virtues of the heathen 
are to be accounted “vices rather than virtues,” because they are not 
“referred to Gkid,” 1 e , God is not acknowledged as their source, and the 
love of him is not their motive It is worth noting, however, that the 
phrase splendida vitia is not Augustinian (See Mausbach, Die Ethik des Heil 
Augustuws, vol. II, pp 258 ff.) 

34 Of. the important passage m De Trm , XIV, 21 (xv). 



2^2 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

power of doing it. But the religion that conveys to another life 
of blessedness and eternity possesses a law ‘‘unspotted, con- 
verting souls/’ 35 so that they receive of that Light renewal, and 
fulfilment of that which is written: “the light of thy countenance, 
O Lord, is marked upon us.” 36 if men turn aside from it, they 
have deserved that it should fade away; renewal, save by the 
Chnstian grace which is the Mediator’s intercession, they can- 
not have. “For there is one God, and one mediator also between 
God and men, the man Christ Jesus, who gave himself to be the 
redemption of all.” And if those of whom we are speaking, 
those who do by nature the things contained in the law in the 
manner we have sufficiently set forth, are strangers from the 
grace of Christ, then the “thoughts” which “excuse” them can 
advantage them nothing in the day when God shall judge the 
hidden things of men — unless it be for a punishment less severe. 
Even as the righteous man is not held back from eternal life by 
those venial sins of which some in this life there must be, so for 
eternal salvation the ungodly has no advantage from some good 
works, which even in the life of the worst of men can scarcely be 
altogether absent. But as in God’s kingdom the saints differ in 
glory like star from star, so in the condemnation of everlasting 
punishment it will be more tolerable for Sodom than for another 
city, and some will be twofold more than others the children 
of hell. 37 God’s judgment will not fail to take account of it, if 
even in the ungodliness which must be condemned one has 
sinned more or less than another. 38 

49 . The apostle is checking the self-glorification of the Jews. 
He has said that “not the hearers of the law are just before God, 
but the doers of the law shall be justified”; and he proceeds at 
once to speak of some who “not having the law, do by nature 
the things contained in the law.” What is the point here made, 
if the reference is not to those who belong to the grace of the 
Mediator, but to those who without that worship of the true 
God which is true religion can yet show some good works in 
their ungodly life? It may be that this is his way of proving what 
he had already said, that there is no respect of persons with God, 

35 Ps 197, 36 Ps 4:6. 

37 I Cor. 15: 41; Luke 10: 12; Matt. 23* 15. 

38 The Council of Carthage m a d 418 which condemned Pelagiamsm, 
rejected the belief in a “middle place” m the after life for unbaptized 
infants. Yet Augustine himself coidd say that they would receive mitissima 
poena, a “very gentle penalty”: he clearly believes in “degrees” of punish- 
ment as of reward See Enchrid , 23, 29, and contrast the horrible argu- 
ments of De Civ,, XXI, I- 10. 



THE SPIRIT AND THE LETTER 233 

and what he says later, that God is not God of the Jews only 
but also of the Gentiles; inasmuch as no works of the law, how- 
ever small, could be found implanted by nature in those who 
have not received the law, unless it came from the relics of the 
divine image, which he in whom there is no respect of persons 
does not despise when they believe in him. Nevertheless, 
whether we accept this interpretation or the other, it holds good 
that the grace of God in the new covenant was promised also 
by the prophet, and that this grace is defined as consisting in 
the writing of God’s laws in the hearts of men, so that they come 
to that knowledge of God in which ‘‘they shall not teach every 
man his neighbour or his brother, saying, Know God: for they 
shall all know him, from the least unto the greatest of them.” 
And this is the gift of the Holy Spirit, by which charity is shed 
abroad in our hearts: that charity alone which is the love of God 
from a pure heart and a good conscience and a faith unfeigned. 3 9 
By it the righteous lives in his pilgrimage here, and by it he is 
led on from mirror and dark saying, and all that was in part, to 
the region of sight, that he may know face to face, as also he 
has been known. One thing he seeks from the Lord and re- 
quires the same, that he may dwell in the house of the Lord all 
the days of his life, to the end that he may contemplate m de- 
light the fair beauty of the Lord.^i 
50 (xxix). No man therefore may boast of that which he 
seems to have, as though he has not received it^^j or think that 
he has received it because the letter that comes from without 
has been set down for his reading or made to sound for his hear- 
ing. “For if righteousness is by the law, then Christ has died for 
nought.” 43 If he has not died for nought, he has “ascended up 
on high, led captivity captive, and given gifts unto men.” 44 
Whoever has anything, has it from thence: whoever denies that 
he has it from thence, either has it not or else that which he has 
shall be taken away from him. 4 5 For there is “one God, who 
justifies the circumcision by faith and the uncircumcision 
through faith.” 46 The change of preposition does not indicate 
any difference of meaning but serves simply to vary the phrase. 
Elsewhere, speaking of the Gentiles, that is, the uncircumcision, 
he says: “the Scripture, foreseeing that God justifies the Gentiles 
by faith”; 47 and again, speaking of the circumcision to which 
he himself belonged; “we, Jews by nature and not sinners of the 

39 I Tim 1*5. 40 I Cor 1312. 4 i Ps 27*4. 

42 I Cor 4*7. 43 Gal. 2.21. 44 Eph. 4.8. 

45 Luke 19.26. 46 Rom 3*30. 47 Gal 3*8. 



Augustine: later works 


234 

Gentiles, knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the 
law but through faith of Jesus Christ, we also have believed in 
Christ Jesus.” 48 Here we have both the uncircumcision said to 
be justified ‘‘by” faith, and the circumcision “through” faith — 
yet only if the circumcision hold to the nghteousness of faith. 
For “the Gentiles which followed not after righteousness have 
laid hold on righteousness, even the righteousness which is of 
faith” — ^received it in answer to their prayer from God, not by 
counting upon themselves — “but Israel in following after the 
law of righteousness hath not attained to that law. Wherefore? 
because it was not by faith, but as though by works” 49 — as 
though they wrought it by themselves and not believing that 
God wrought it in them. “For it is God that worketh in us both 
to will and to work according to his good pleasure.” There- 
fore they “stumbled upon the rock of stumbling.” The mean- 
ing of Paufs actual words — “because it was not by faith, but as 
though by works” — is made quite clear in a following verse: 
“for they being ignorant of the righteousness of God and desir- 
ing to establish their own, have not been subject to the 
righteousness of God. For Christ is the end of the law unto 
righteousness to everyone that believeth.” ^2 

Can we still have any doubt what are those works of the law 
by which a man is not justified, if he regards them as his own, 
apart from the help and gift of God, which is by faith of Jesus 
Christ? Can we think for a moment of circumcision and such- 
like, because we read similar sayings about these ordinances in 
other places? Here at least it was not circumcision that they 
desired to establish as their own righteousness; for circumcision 
itself was estabhshed by the command of God. Nor can we sup- 
pose any reference here to those works, of which the Lord told 
them: “Ye do reject the commandment of God that ye may set 
up your traditions.” ^3 Paul’s words are: “Israel in following 
after the law of righteousness attained not unto that law” ^4 — 
not “following after their own traditions.” The contrast lies 
entirely in the point that they ascribed to themselves the keeping 
of the law “Thou shalt not covet,” and the rest of the holy and 
righteous commands of God. Man’s power to accomplish them 
is wrought in man by God through faith of Jesus Christ, who is 
the end unto righteousness for everyone that believeth . in whom, 
that is to say, everyone that is incorporated through the Spirit, 

48 Gal. 2* 15 f. 49 Rom. 9*30 f. so Phil 2*13. 

51 Rom 9.32. 52 Rom. 10:3!. 

53 Matt. 15.3. 54 Rom. 9.31. 



THE SPIRIT AND THE LETTER 


235 

and made a member of him, is enabled to work righteousness 
because he gives the increase from within. Of the works of such, 
the Lord himself has said that “without me ye can do nothing.” 

51. The righteousness of the law, of which it is said that if a 
man do it he shall live in it ,56 is set forth to this end: that every 
man may recognize his own infirmity, and so, not in his own 
strength or through the letter of the law (which cannot be), 
but winning through faith the favour of the Justifier, may attain 
and do, and live in it. For the work which if a man do he shall 
live in it is done only by one who is justified: and justification is 
granted to the prayer of faith, of which it is written: “Say not in 
thy heart, who shall ascend into heaven? (that is, to bring 
Christ down), or who shall descend into the deep? (that is, to 
bnng Christ back from the dead) . But what saith the Scripture? 
The word is nigh thee, in thy mouth and in thy heart. That is 
(says the apostle) the word of faith which we preach. For if thou 
confess with thy mouth that Jesus is Lord, and hast believed in 
thy heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt 
be saved.” ^7 And righteous, inasmuch as saved. For by the same 
faith we believe that God raises up us also from the dead: for the 
time present in spirit, so that in newness of his grace we live 
soberly, righteously, and godly in this world, and afterwards 
even in our flesh which shall rise again unto immortality. Such 
shall be the reward earned for flesh by spint, which goes before 
it in a spiritual resurrection, that is, in justification. “For we 
have been buried with Christ by baptism unto death: that like 
as Christ rose from the dead through the glory of the Father, 
even so we also should walk in newness of life.” By faith of 
Jesus Christ is granted to us both the httle beginning of salva- 
tion in possession, and its perfecting which we await in hope. 
“For every one that shall call upon the name of the Lord shall 
be saved.” “How countless is the sum of thy sweetness, O 
Lord,” as the Psalm says, “which thou hast hidden from them 
that fear thee, but perfected unto them that hope in thee!” 
From the law comes our fear of God, from faith our hope in 
him; but grace is hidden from those who are in fear of punish- 
ment. The soul that labours under that fear, not yet victorious 
over evil concupiscence and still held in the stern ward of that 
same fear, must take refuge by faith with the mercy of God, that 
he may grant what he commands, impart the sweet savour of 

55 John 15:5. S6 Lev. 18.5. s? Rom. 10:5 fF. 

58 Titus 2:12. Rom. 6:4. 

50 Rom. 10:13. Ps. 31:19. 



AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


236 

grace, and by his Holy Spirit make the delight of his precepts 
greater than the attraction which obstructs the keeping of them. 
Thus that ''countless sum of his sweetness,’’ the law of faith 
which is the love of him written and shed abroad in our hearts, 
is perfected unto them that hope in him; so that the healed soul 
may work that which is good, not in fear of punishment, but 
through love of righteousness. 

52. Do we then "make void” freedom of choice through 
grace? "God forbid! yea, we establish” freedom of choice .^2 As 
the law is not made void by faith, so freedom of choice is not 
made void but established by grace. Freedom of choice is 
necessary to the fulfilment of the law. But by the law comes 
the knowledge of sin; by faith comes the obtaining of grace 
against sin; by grace comes the healing of the soul from sin’s 
sickness; by the healing of the soul comes freedom of choice ^3 j 
by freedom of choice comes the love of righteousness; by the 
love of righteousness comes the working of the law. And thus, 
as the law is not made void but estabhshed by faith, since faith 
obtains the grace whereby the law may be fulfilled, so freedom 
of choice is not made void but established by grace, since grace 
heals the will whereby righteousness may freely be loved. All the 
links in that chain which I have drawn out are found speaking 
in the Holy Scriptures. The law says, '‘Thou shalt not covet.” 
Faith says, “Heal my soul, for I have sinned against thee.” 
Grace says, "Behold, thou art made whole: sin no more, lest a 
worse thing come unto thee.” Health restored says, "O Lord 
my God, I cned unto thee and thou hast healed me.” <57 Free- 
dom of choice says, "I will sacrifice freely unto thee.” Love of 
righteousness says, "The unrighteous have spoken unto me of 
delights, but not as thy law, O Lord.” Why then must wretched 
men be bold to vaunt themselves either of their freedom of 
choice before they are made free, or of their own strength, if the 
freedom has been given them? Why will they not hear in the 
very words “freedom of choice” the meaning of liberty? "Where 
the Spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty.” How, if they are 
slaves of sin, can they boast freedom of choice? "For of whom a 
man is overcome, to the same is he brought in bondage.” But 
if they have been made free, why boast of it as though it were 
their own work, and glory as though they had not received it? 

62 Rom. 3:31, 63 See Introduction, p. 189. 

65 Ps. 41:4. 66 John 5 14, 

68 Ps. 54:6. 69 Ps, 119:85. 

71 II Pet. 2:19. 


64 Ex. 20*17. 

67 Ps. 30:2. 

70 II Cor. 3:17. 



THE SPIRIT AND THE LETTER 


237 

This is a freedom which will not have even him for master who 
says: '‘Without me ye can do nothing,” and ‘Tf the Son shall 
make you free, then shall ye be free indeed.” 72 

53 (xxxi) . In this hnked series which I have described, the 
beginning of salvation or of the way to it appears to be faith. 
The question will be asked, Is this faith itself placed in our own 
power? It will help us to see the answer, if we look somewhat 
more attentively into the nature of power. Willing is one thing, 
abihty another; willing does not necessarily imply ability, nor 
ability willing: we sometimes will what we are not able to do, 
and sometimes are able to do what we do not will. The Latin 
words make it plain that wiU {voluntas) is derived from velle^ 
power {potestas) from posse: he who wills has voluntas^ he who is 
able has potestas. But will must be present for power to be 
operative: we do not call an unwilling act the operation of 
power. Yet on a closer analysis, it appears that even if you do a 
thing under compulsion, unwillingly, you do it by your will if 
you do it at all: you are said to do it against your will, that is, 
unwillingly, because you would prefer to act differently. You 
are compelled to act because of some evil, which it is your will 
to avoid or remove; and so you act under compulsion. If your 
will were strong enough to prefer the suffering of the evil to the 
doing of the act, you would of course resist the compulsion and 
refuse the act. Thus if you act, though it may not be with full or 
free will, it can never be without willing; and since the willing 
is carried into eflFect, we cannot say that the actor was powerless. 
If in yielding to compulsion you willed an act which you could 
not perform, we should say that the will was present, albeit 
forced, but the power lacking. But when you do not act because 
you will not, the power is there but the will is lacking, so long as 
your resistance to compulsion withholds the act. That is why, in 
the employment either of compulsion or of persuasion, it may 
be said: “Why not do what you have in your power, in order to 
escape this evil?” And one who is altogether unable to do that 
which he is being pressed to do on the supposition of his abihty, 
may reply with the excuse: “I would do it if it were m my 
power.” We have then a sufficient definition of power in the 
union of will with the capacity to act. We say that any man has 
in his power that which he does if he wills and does not if he 
wills not, 

54. Now consider the question we raised for investigation: 
whether faith is in our power. We are speaking of the faith with 
72 John 15*5; 8.36. 



1238 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

which we respond in believing, not of that which we give when 
we make a promise. Here too we speak of * ‘faith,’’ but we use 
the word in different senses when we say “He had not faith in 
me,” and when we say “He did not keep faith with me”: the 
meaning in the first case is: “He did not believe what I said”; 
in the second, “He did not do what he said.” By the faith where- 
with we believe, we are faithful to God; by the faith wherewith 
his promises are performed, God himself is faithful to us: as the 
apostie says, “God is faithful, in not suffering you to be tempted 
beyond that which you are able.” It is the faith whereby we 
believe God or believe in God, of which we now ask whether it 
is in our power — the faith of which it is written: “Abraham be- 
lieved God, and it was counted unto him for righteousness”; 
and again: “unto him that believeth in him that justifieth the 
ungodly, his faith is counted for righteousness.” 

Ask yourself, then, whether anyone can believe if he will not, 
or not believe if he will. The supposition is absurd — ^for belief 
is simply consenting to the truth of what is said, and consent is 
necessarily an act of will. It follows that faith must be in our 
power. But, as the apostle says, “there is no power but of God.” 75 
There can be no reason, then, for excluding this power from 
the application of the words: “What hast thou which thou hast 
not received?” 75 Even our believing is a thing that God has 
granted to us. But nowhere do we read in the Holy Scriptures 
that “there is no will but of God”; and rightly so, for it is not 
true. Else, if there were no will but of him, God would be the 
author of sins — ^which God forbid! For the evil will by itself is 
sin, even if its effect be lacking, that is, if it have not power to 
act. When the evil will receives power to accomplish its intent, 
this comes of the judgment of God, in whom there is no un- 
righteousness: his punishment is carried out in this way as well 
as in others, and it is not the less just because it is hidden; though 
the wicked man only knows he is being punished, when manifest 
penalty makes him feel against his will the evil of the sin he 
wrought willingly. This is the meaning of what the apostle says 
of certain sinners: “God gave them over unto the lusts of their 
heart, to do the things winch are unfitting.” 77 And as the Lord 
said to Pilate: “Thou couldest have no power against me, unless 
it were given thee from above.” 78 But the giving of power is not 
the imposition of necessity: the David who received the power 

73 1 Cor 10.13, 74 Rom. 4 3, 5. 

75 Rom. 13. 1, a misapplied text. 76 I Cor. 4:7. 

77 Rom. I 24. 78 John 19. ii. 



THE SPIRIT AND THE LETTER 


^239 

to slay Saul, chose to spare and not to strike. Thus we under- 
stand that the evil receive power for the condemnation of their 
evil will, but the good for the proving of their good will. 

55 (xxxii). Faith, then, is in our power, because everyone 
believes when he wills, and when he believes, believes willingly. 
We must next enquire, or rather recall to mind, what is the faith 
that the apostle urges upon us with such force of argument. It is 
not any kind of beheving that is good; or we should not be 
warned: “Brethren, believe not every spirit; but test the spirit 
which is of God.’’^® Paufs words in his praise of charity, 
“believeth all things” si, do not mean that we should de- 
preciate the charity of any man who does not at once believe 
everything he hears. The same charity forbids us easily to 
believe any evil of a brother, and counts it rather as a part of 
itself not to believe, when it hears such evil spoken. The charity 
that “beheveth all things” also “beheves not every spirit.” We 
are not told that it believes all men: it believes all things, but 
its belief is given to God. There can be no doubt that the faith 
commended by the apostle is that whereby God is believed. 

56. But a further distinction is required. God may be be- 
lieved as well by those who are under the law and try to work 
their own righteousness through fear of punishment; so that they 
cannot work the righteousness of God. For that is done by the 
charity that takes pleasure only in the lawful, and not by the 
fear that is compelled to act lawfully, while the will’s desire 
would be to have licence (if that were possible) for the unlawful. 
They also believe God: if they were devoid of such belief, they 
would have no dread of the law’s punishment. But this is not 
the faith commended by the apostle, who says: “Ye have not 
received the spirit of bondage again unto fear, but ye have re- 
ceived the spirit of the adoption of sons, whereby we cry, Abba, 
Father.” This fear then is the fear of slaves, and therefore, 
although it renders belief to the Master, there is in it no love of 
righteousness but only the fear of damnation. The cry of sons 
is, Abba, Father — two words that belong one to the circum- 
cision and the other to the uncircumcision: “to the Jew first and 
also to the Greek” — “for there is one God that justifieth the cir- 
cumcision by faith and the uncircumcision through faith.” 83 
Their cry is a petition, and its object is that for which they 
hunger and thirst: which can only be, as it is written of them: 
“Blessed are they which hunger and thirst after righteousness, 

79 I Sam 24*10. 80 I John 4:1. 8i i Cor. 13 7 

82 Rom 8*15. 83 Rom I 16; 3*30. 



AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


240 

for they shall be filled.” To this blessedness they that are under 
the law must cross over; the servants must become sons, yet 
not ceasing to be servants, but so as to render the free service 
of sons to their Master and Father, For this too is what they 
have received: “He,” the only-begotten, “hath given power 
to become sons of God unto them that believe in his name.”85 
He has counselled them to ask, to seek, to knock, that they may 
receive and find and that it may be opened unto them. To which 
he adds the rebuke of unbelief: “if ye being evil know how to 
give good gifts unto your sons, how much more shall your 
Father which is in heaven give good things to them that ask 
him?”®* 

The law which is the strength of sin, has fired the sting of 
death, 87 so that sin taking occasion by the commandment works 
all manner of concupiscence. 8® From whom then should we ask 
for continence but from him who knows how to give good gifts 
to his sons? The unwise, maybe, is ignorant that none can have 
continence unless God give it89: that he may know it, wisdom 
is what he needs. Let him listen then to the Spirit of his Father 
speaking through Ghnst’s apostle, or to Chnst himself saying 
in his Gospel: “Ask and ye shall receive” — speaking also in his 
apostle and saying: “If any one of you lack wisdom, let him ask 
of God, who giveth to all men liberally and upbraideth not, and 
it shall be given to him. But let him ask in faith, nothing 
doubting.” so 

This IS the faith, by which the righteous lives. This is the faith 
that believes in him who justifies the ungodly. This is the faith 
through which glorying is “cut out,” si whether for the exclu- 
sion of that which is self-conceit or for the marking of that by 
which we glory in the Lord. This is the faith that gams the 
bountiful outpouring of the Spirit, of which it is said that “we 
through the Spirit await in faith the hope of righteousness.” S2 
(One may ask here whether righteousness is subject or object of 
the hope; for the righteous who hves by faith does indeed hope 
for eternal life, and the faith that hungers and thirsts after 
righteousness advances therein by the renewal of the inward 
man from day to day, and hopes to be satisfied therewith in 
that eternal life where the words of the Psalm shall come to 
pass: “who satisfieth thy desire with good things.” ®8) This is the 

84 Matt. 5:6. 85 John 1:12. 

87 I Cor 15*56. 88 Rom. 7:8. 

90 James 1.5 f. 5 i Rom. 1:17; 4:5; 3:27, 

93 Ps. 103:5. 


86 Matt. 7:7 fF. 

89 Wisdom 21:8. 
92 Gal. 5:5. 



THE SPIRIT AND THE LETTER 

faith by which men are saved, according to the say ing ; “By 
grace ye are saved through faith; and that not of yourselves: it 
IS the gift of God, not of works, lest any man be lifted up. For we 
are his making, created in Christ Jesus in good works, which 
God has prepared that we may walk therein.” This, finally, 
is the faith that works through love and not through fear, not 
dreading punishment but lonpng for righteousness. Whence 
comes that love, which is charity, through which faith works, 
but from the Source that granted it to faith’s own petition? 
There could be no spark of it in us, however small, were it not 
shed abroad in our hearts through the Holy Spirit which is 
given to us. For this charity or love of God which is said to be 
shed abroad in our hearts is not his own love for us but that by 
which he makes us his lovers: hke the righteousness of God by 
which we are made righteous through his gift, or the salvation 
of the Lord by which he causes us to be saved, or the faith 
of Jesus Christ by which he makes us faithful. That is the 
righteousness of God, which he does not only teach by the com- 
mandment of the law, but gives by the bestowal of the Spirit. 

57 (xxxiii). There is, however, a further question to which 
we should give some consideration. Is the will by which we 
believe also the gift of God, or is it exerted by the freedom of 
choice which is implanted in us by nature? If we say it is not 
God’s gift, there is a danger of our supposing that we have found 
an answer to the apostle’s rebuke: “What hast thou that thou 
hast not received? But if thou hast received it, why dost thou 
glory as though thou hadst not received it?” We may retort 
that we have the will to believe, which we have not received, 
and that gives us room to glory because we have not received 
it. If on the other hand we say that this act of will is nothing 
but the gift of God, again there will be danger lest the infidel 
and the godless be thought to have good ground for excusing 
their own unbelief on the plea that God has refused to grant 
them the will. When it is said that “it is God who worketh in us 
both to will and to work according to his good pleasure,” ** we 
are already in the sphere of grace, granted to faith, in order that 
man may have the good works, worked by faith through the 
love which is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Spirit 
which is given to us. But in order that this grace may be granted 
we believe, and our belief is an act of will. It is of this will that 
we ask whence it comes. If by nature, then why not to all, since 
the same God is the Creator of all? If by the gift of God, still why 

Eph. 2:8 fF. 95 1 Cor. 4*7. Phil. 2:13. 



243 


AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


to all, since he will have all men to be saved and come to 
knowledge of the truth? 

58. Here the first point to be made, as a possible solution of 
difficulty, is that the freedom of choice which the Creator 
has conferred in the way of nature upon the rational soul is a 
iieutral power, which can either be exerted to faith or sink into 
unbelief. Accordingly it cannot be said that in the act of will 
whereby a man believes God, he possesses what he has not re- 
ceived, since it arises at God’s call from the freedom of choice 
which he received in the way of nature at his creation. God wills 
men to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth; 
but not so as to deprive them of that freedom of choice, for the 
good or evil use of which they are subject to the judgment of 
absolute Justice. By that judgment, the unbelieving act against 
God’s Will when they disbelieve his gospel; yet what they do is 
uot to defeat his will but to cheat themselves of a supreme good 
and fall into the distress of punishment: in which they must learn 
power of him whose mercy in his gifts they have despised, 
Thus the will of God is ever undefeated; which would not be, 
had he no way of dealing with his despisers, or were there any 
escape for them from his sentence upon such. Suppose a master 
say: these my servants work in the vineyard, and 

after their labour rest and feast; provided that any who will not 
so Work shall grind for ever in the mill.” It might appear that 
one who should despise the order is acting against his master’s 
but he will only defeat it if in his master’s despite he escapes 
^ under the power of God is alto- 

gether impossible. So it is written: ‘‘God spoke once” — ^which 
we understand in the sense of “unchangeably,” though it might 
also be taken to mean a single utterance — and then we hear the 
patter of this unchangeable word: “these two things have I 
^ard, that power belongeth unto God, and that mercy is thine, 
who wilt render to every man according to his works.” 
-ihe despiser of his mercy, which calls for belief, must bear 
under his power the sentence of condemnation. But whosoever 
beheves, and trusts himself to God for the absolution of all his 
sms, for the healing of all his sicknesses, for kindling and 
muinination by the warmth and light of God, shall have by his 
grace those good works which lead to dehverance even in the 

1 Tim 2:4 Note that in this treatise Augustine does not find it necessary, 
98 H explain away this text (cf Enchind , 103). 

rtere is the fatal distinction between God’s power and his mercy, God’s 
wiu and his love. 99 Ps. 62 * 1 1 f 



THE SPIRIT AND THE LETTER 


243 

body from the corruption of death, to crowning and satisfaction 
with the good things which are not temporal but eternal, above 
all that we ask or think. 1 

59. Such is the order set forth in the Psalm: “Bless the Lord, 
O my soul, and forget not all his rewardings, who forgiveth all 
thine iniquities, who healeth all thine infirmities, who redeem- 
eth thy life from corruption, who crowneth thee with compas- 
sion and mercy, who satisfieth thy desire with good things.” 2 
And lest we despair of all these good things because of that 
deformity of old age which is our mortality, we hear the assur- 
ance: “thy youth shall be renewed like that of an eagle” — as 
much as to say: “all this that thou hast heard belongs to the 
new man and the new covenant.” Dwell on it all with me, I 
pray you, and take your delight in the praise of mercy, which is 
the grace of God. “Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all 
his rewardings” — not awardings but rewardings, because he 
rewards evil with good. “Who forgiveth all thine iniqmties”: 
that is done in the sacrament of baptism. “Who healeth all thine 
infirmities” : that takes effect for the man of faith in this life, 
wherein the flesh lusteth against the spirit and the spirit against 
the flesh, so that we do not the things we would, wherein the 
other law in our members wars against the law of the mind, 
wherein to will is present but to perform the good is not; these 
infirmities of old age, if we persevere in going forward, are 
healed by the daily increase of new hfe in the faith that works 
through love. “Who redeemeth thy life from corruption”: that 
comes to pass in the final resurrection of the dead. “Who 
crowneth thee with compassion and mercy” : that will be in the 
judgment; then, when the King of righteousness sits upon his 
throne to render unto every man according to his works, who 
shall boast that he has a pure heart or is clean from sin? ^ Here, 
therefore, there was need to speak of the Lord’s compassion and 
mercy, since in that judgment the exaction of debt and rendering 
of desert might seem to leave no place for mercy. He wiU crown 
with compassion and mercy; yet this too wiU be according to 
men’s works. For it will be those set apart on his right hand who 
will hear him say: “I was hungry and thou gavest me to eat.” ^ 
There is a “judgment without mercy,” but it is “to him that 
showed not mercy,” and “blessed are the merciful, for they 
shall obtain mercy.” ^ Then those on the left hand shall go into 
everlasting burning, but the righteous into hfe eternal; and 

lEph. 3'ao. 2Ps. i03-2fF 1 Prov 20:8 f. 

Matt 25‘35. 5 James 2. 13, Matt 57. 



►44 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

Lccording to the saying that “this is life eternal, that they may 
mow thee the one true God and Jesus Christ whom thou hast 
ent,” ^ so with that knowledge, that vision, that contemplation 
hall the desire of the soul be satisfied with good things. That 
ind that alone suffices it, it has nothing more to seek, to long 
br, to require. It was the desire of that satisfaction that kindled 
he disciple’s heart, who said to the Lord Christ: “Show us the 
father, and it sufficeth us”; and received the answer: “He that 
lath seen me, hath seen the Father.” ^ For eternal life itself is 
'that they may know the one true God, thyself, and Jesus 
Christ whom thou hast sent.” And if to have seen the Son is to 
Lave seen the Father, no doubt to see the Father and the Son is 
0 see the Holy Spirit of the Father and the Son. 

Thus freedom of choice is undisturbed; and yet our soul may 
dess the Lord, not forgetting all his rewardmgs: it seeks not in 
gnorance of God’s nghteousness to establish its own, but be- 
ieves on him who justifies the ungodly, and lives by faith till it 
►e admitted into sight, by that faith which works through love, 
^nd this love is shed abroad in our hearts, not by the sufficiency 
f our own will nor by the letter of the law, but by the Holy 
Ipirit which is given to us. 

6o (xxxiv). If this hne of argument be thought sufficient 
,s answer to the question raised, well and good. It may, how- 
ver, be replied that there is a danger of making God responsible 
Dr the sin committed by freedom of choice, if the reason for 
.scribing to God’s gift the will to beheve (in accordance with 
he saying: “What hast thou which thou hast not received?”) 
►e that it arises from that freedom of choice, which we received 
a our creation. But it should be observed that this is not the 
►nly reason. This act of will is attributable to the divine bounty, 
lot only because it comes of the freedom of choice which was 
reated with us in the way of nature. Besides that, God works 
or our willing and beheving through the inducement of im- 
)ressions which we experience: whether the impressions be ex- 
ernal, as m the exhortations of the Gospel, in which case the 
aw’s commands have a certain effect, if by warning a man of 
ds own weakness they make him seek refuge through believing 
vith the grace that justifies; or internal, as in the ideas which 
inter the mind willynilly, though consent or refusal thereto is a 
natter of one’s own will. In these ways does God work upon the 
easonable soul to believe: indeed freedom of choice could pro- 
luce no act of belief, were there no inducement or invitation to 
John 17.3. 7 John 14:8!. 



THE SPIRIT AND THE LETTER 245 

beKef. Assuredly then it is God who brings about in a man the 
very will to believe, and in all things does his mercy anticipate 
us; yet to consent to the caUing of God or to refuse it, as I have 
said, belongs to our own will. Which, so far from conflicting 
with the text, ‘‘What hast thou which thou hast not received?^’, 
does even confirm it. For the soul cannot receive and possess the 
gifts there spoken of, but by consenting. What it is to possess, 
what it is to receive, pertains to God: the receiving and the 
possessing necessarily to him who receives and possesses. ^ There 
remains indeed the profound mystery, why this suasion in one 
man is effective, in another not. If I am pressed to attempt its 
fathoming, I can think at the moment of only two answers that 
I should like to give: “O the depth of the riches . . and, 
“Is there any unrighteousness with God?’’® He whom the reply 
contents not may look for more instructed counsellors; but let 
him beware of finding such as are over-confident. 

6 1 (xxxv). It is time to end this book. I cannot say 
whether its prolixity has achieved anything — I do not mean for 
you, whose faith I know, but for the minds of those on whose 
account you desired me to write. It is not against me, but (to 
refrain from any appeal to the authority of him who has spoken 
in his apostles) certainly against no less an apostle than Paul, 
speaking not in a single text but in a long argument of such 
power, intensity and vigilance, that they must defend, if they 
choose, their own opinion: instead of listening to him, as he en- 
treats by the mercy of God, and bids them through the grace 
of God given unto him, “not to be wise overmuch beyond the 
wisdom that is fitting, but to be wise in soberness, according as 
God hath dealt to every man the measure of faith.” 

62. But I may call your attention to the question which you 
put to me and to the upshot of my long and laboured argument. 
You were perplexed by the statement that a man may be with- 
out sin, if the divine aid be seconded by his own will, although 
there be no example, past, present, or future, of such perfect 
righteousness in this life. In the work previously addressed to 
you I had stated the matter in these terms: “If I am asked 
whether a man can in this life be without sin, I will allow that it 
is possible, through the grace of God and the man’s free choice: 

8 For this passage, see Introduction, p 190. 

9 Rom. 11:33; 9.14. Augustine habitually makes use of Paul’s 0 altitudol, 
in Its context an outburst of praise for the great design of “mercy upon all,” 
to quell heart-searchmgs over the problem of predestination. 

10 Rom. 12:3. 



AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


246 

though I make no doubt that freedom of choice itself appertains 
to the grace of God^ that is, to the things which he ^ves — and 
not only its existence, but its right direction, its turning to per- 
form the Lord’s commands; so that the grace of God not only 
shows what is right but also by its aid enables it to be done when 
it is shown.” You thought it irrational that there should be 
no example of a thing that is possible; and so arose the enquiry 
of this book, in which it lay on me to show that a thing may be 
possible even if example of it be lacking. Accordingly, we ad- 
duced instances at the beginning of our discussion, from the 
Gospel and the Law; such as the camel’s passing through the 
needle’s eye, the twelve legions of angels that might have fought 
for Christ had he so willed, the nations which God said he could 
have destroyed all at once from the face of his people — all being 
things that have not happened. One might add what we read in 
the Book of Wisdom, of the many strange torments which God 
could put forth against the wicked through the creature’s 
obedience to his order 12 — ^which yet he did not; or one might 
quote the mountain which faith could shift into the sea, though 
we have no record or report of its ever being done. To say that 
any of these things is impossible to God, would be plain folly 
and contradiction of the truth of his Scripture. And many other 
cases of the same kind might occur to us in reading or reflecting, 
of which we could not deny the possibility with God, although 
example of them be lacking. 

63. Since, however, it might be said that these are works of 
God, whereas righteous living is a matter of our own working, I 
undertook to show that this also is a divine work; and to the 
proof of this I have devoted the present book — ^perhaps with 
more words than were needed. Yet as against the enemies of 
God’s grace I feel that I have said only too httle. I am never so 
happy in speaking as when I have most ample support in the 
Scripture, and when the purpose is that whosoever glories may 
glory in the Lord, 1 3 and that in all things we may give thanks 
to the Lord our God, lifting up our hearts to heaven, whence 
from the Father of lights comes every best gift and every perfect 
gift. If the fact that a thing is done by our hands or that we do 
it by God’s granting makes it no work of God, then it is no work 
of God for the mountain to be carried into the sea, since the 
Lord has said that this can be done through the faith of men, 
and set it down to their own working in the words: ‘Tf ye have 

11 De Pecc Met,, II, 7. 12 Wisdom 16.24. 

13 II Cor. 10.17. 14 James 1*17. 



THE SPIRIT AND THE LETTER 247 

faith in you as a grain of mustard seed, ye shall say to this moun- 
tain, Be lifted up and cast into the sea, and it shall be done; and 
nothing shall be impossible to you.’* Christ says "'to you,” not 
^‘to me” or “to my Father”; yet a man could by no means do 
such a thing, unless God granted and worked it. In this way we 
may see that perfect righteousness may be unexampled among 
men and yet be not impossible. It would come about, if there 
were brought to bear the will sufficient for such an achievement; 
and that might be, if all the requirements of righteousness were 
known to us, and if they inspired in the soul such delight as to 
overcome the obstacle set by any other pleasure or pain. That it 
does not happen is due not to its impossibility but to the judg- 
ment of God. For we are well aware that the extent of a man’s 
knowledge is not in his own power, and that it does not follow 
that he will pursue what he knows to be worth pursuing, unless 
he delight in it no less than it deserves his love. But that depends 
upon the health of the soul. 

64 (xxxvi). One might perhaps suppose that in regard to 
the knowledge of righteousness we have all we need; inasmuch 
as our Lord, summing and shortening his word upon the earth, 
has said that upon two commandments hang all the law and the 
prophets, and put those commandments in the plainest words: 
“Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart and with 
all thy soul and with all thy mind,” and “Thou shalt love thy 
neighbour as thyself.” ^ That in the fulfilling of these is the com- 
plete fulfilment of righteousness, is absolute truth. But to ob- 
serve this must not be to forget how often we all go wrong in the 
belief that what we do is pleasing or not unpleasing to God; 
whereas his scripture or the clear assurance of reason may after- 
wards teach us to see that it is not pleasing to him, and we have 
to pray in penitence for his forgiveness. Human life is full of such 
records. And why is it that we know too httle of what is pleasing 
to him, but because we know too httle of himself? “For we see 
now through a glass darkly, but then face to face.” Who could 
dare to think that when we come to that state of which it is 
written, “that I may know even as also I am known,” the love 
of God in those that behold him will be no greater than in the 
faithful here and now — or indeed that there can be any com- 
parison between the one and the other? The greater the know- 
ledge, the greater the love; and if that be so, then whatever now 
we lack in love must be thought lacking to the perfection of 

15 Matt 17:20 and Luke 17 6 (conflate). 

15 Isa. 10.23. Matt. 22*37 ff. 


18 I Cor 13.12. 



AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


248 

righteousness. A thing can be known or believed, and yet not 
loved; but what is neither known nor believed cannot be loved. 
Through believing, the saints may have been enabled to reach 
that love than which by the Lord’s own testimony there can in 
this life be no greater: namely, to lay down their life for the faith 
or for the brethren. But when we issue from this pilgrimage in 
which now we walk by faith, to the sight for which still unseen 
we hope and in patience wait,i^ most certainly will love itself 
be not only above that which we have here, but far above what 
we ask or think. Yet it can never be more than love with the 
whole heart, with the whole soul, with the whole mind; for 
there can be nothing remaining in us that could be added to the 
whole: otherwise it would not have been the whole. Accordingly 
this first commandment of righteousness, which bids us love God 
with our whole heart and with our whole soul and with our 
whole mind, on which follows the other concerning love of 
neighbour, will be fulfilled in the life to come when we shall see 
face to face. It is commanded to us even now, that we might be 
made aware of what faith must ask and whither hope must go 
ahead: what are those things that are before, unto which, for- 
getting the things that are behind, we must reach forth. 20 So, as 
it appears to me, in the righteousness that is to be made perfect 
much progress in this life has been made by that man who 
knows by his progress how far he is from the perfection of 
righteousness. 

65. We may, however, speak of a lesser righteousness belong- 
ing to this life, and shown in the righteous man who lives by 
faith, though still absent from the Lord and therefore walking 
by faith and not by sight; and to this righteousness freedom 
from sin might not unreasonably be attributed. We cannot 
reckon it as guilt, if the love of God cannot yet reach the height 
appropriate to the full and perfect knowledge of heaven: it is 
one thing to fall short of charity in its wholeness, and another to 
follow after no evil desire. So it is the duty of a man, even 
though he loves God far less than he may love him when he is 
seen, to abstain from all pursuit of what is unlawful: just as, in 
the sphere of sense perception, the eye that cannot rest steadily 
upon a full blaze of light can refuse to take pleasure in darkness. 
Let us then imagine, in this corruptible body, a human soul 
wherein the most excellent perfection of charity has not yet 
absorbed and consumed every motive of earthly lust, but which 
is kept by this lesser righteousness from the least leaning towards 

II Cor. 5.7; Rom. 8 25 20 phil. 3.13. 



THE SPIRIT AND THE LETTER 249 

consent to such lust for the doing of any unlawful thing. Then 
we can apply to our immortal life which is to come the rule: 
^‘Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with thy whole heart and 
with thy whole soul and with thy whole strength’’; and to our 
life here that other rule: ^‘Let not sin reign in your mortal body, 
to obey its desires.” 21 There will be fulfilled the command: 
‘‘Thou shalt not covet”; here the command: “Go not after thy 
concupiscences.” 22 There we shall have nothing more to seek 
but continuance in that state of perfection; here a man must 
work to achieve his purpose, and hope for its perfecting as his 
reward. There the righteous will live endlessly in the sight for 
which here he longed; here the righteous will live by faith, 
longing for that hfe which will most surely be his end. 

On these premises, it will be sin for one who lives by faith to 
yield any consent to any unlawful delectation, not only in the 
committing of the more abominable misdeeds or crimes, but in 
such more venial matters as lending ear to any word that ought 
not to be listened to, or tongue to one that ought not to be 
spoken; or having any thought in the heart that would desire 
hcence for a thing known by the commandment to be unlawful 
and wrongly felt as delectable: for that itself is consenting to 
sin, inasmuch as it would be done, but for fear of punishment. 
But if the righteous who hve by faith resist all such temptation, 
does that mean that they have no need to say: “Forgive us our 
debts, as we also forgive our debtors”? Do they confute the texts 
of Scripture: “In thy sight shall no man living be justified”; “If 
we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth 
is not in us”; “for there is no man that shall not sin,” “for there 
is no righteous man on earth that shall do good and not sin”? 23 
(Note that both these last texts speak not of the past but of the 
future: not “has not,” but “shall not sin”.) These and other say- 
ings of Holy Scripture in the same sense cannot be untrue. It 
follows, as I see it, that in whatever kind or degree we may de- 
fine righteousness in this life, there is in this life no man entirely 
without sin: there is need for every man to give that it may be 
given to him, to forgive that it may be forgiven him, and in 
respect of any righteousness he possesses not to presume that 
it has come of his own making, but to accept it as of the grace 
of God who justifies; yet none the less to hunger and thirst for 
the gift of righteousness from him who is the living bread and 
with whom is the well of life — ^who so works justification in his 

21 Rom 6’ 12. 22 Ecclesiasticus 18*30. 

23 Ps. 143 2; I John 1.8; I Kings 8.46, Ecclesiastes 7:20. 



250 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

saints that labour in the trial of this life, that there is always 
somewhat his bounty may add in answer to their prayer, or his 
goodness pardon upon their confession. 

66. Let those who differ from us find a man, living under the 
burden of our corruption, whom God has no longer anything 
to pardon. If they can do so, they must either admit that he was 
enabled to that state, not by the gift of the law's teaching, but 
by the inpouring of the Spirit of grace, or else incur the guilt 
of no lesser sin than blasphemy itself. If they accept the sacred 
texts just quoted in their proper sense, their finding any such 
man is impossible. Nevertheless it may by no means be asserted 
that to God the possibihty is not present of granting to the 
human will aid sufficient not only for the complete perfection, 
here and now, of the righteousness which is by faith, but even 
for that righteousness in which we shall hereafter live for ever 
in the contemplation of himself. Suppose God should will, here 
and now, to clothe in any man this corruptible with incorrup- 
tion, and to bid him live immortal among mortal men — ^in such 
wise that all the old man in him were utterly done away, that 
there were no law in his members warring against the law of his 
mind, and that he knew the omnipresent God with that same 
knowledge which the saints shall have hereafter. Would anyone 
be mad enough to deny that God could do such a thing? Men 
will still question why he does not do it; but the questioners be- 
think themselves too little that they are men. 

I know that there is neither impossibility nor unrighteousness 
with God; I know that he resisteth the proud and giveth grace 
unto the humble; and I know that the apostle to whom, lest he 
be exalted, was given a thorn in the flesh, an angel of Satan to 
buffet him, heard once again and yet a third time the answer to 
his prayer: “My grace is sufficient for thee: for strength is made 
perfect in weakness." 24 There lies therefore a secret in the hid- 
den depth of God’s judgments, that even of the righteous shall 
every mouth be closed in praise of self and opened only unto the 
praise of God. But that secret who can explore, who can search 
out, who can know^ So “unsearchable are his judgments, and 
his ways past finding out. For who hath known the mind of the 
Lord? or who hath been his counsellor? or who hath first given 
unto him, and it shall be recompensed unto him again? For of 
him, and through him, and in him are all things. To him be glory 
for ever and ever. Amen .’’25 

24 Luke 1*37; 92:15; James 4.6; II Cor. 12:7 ff. 

25 Rom II 33 ff. 



Ten Homilies 

on the First Epistle General of St. John 


INTRODUCTION 

T he Pelagian controversy was the chief 
literary pre-occupation of Augustine from a.d. 41 i (his 
57th year) to his death in a.d. 430 at the age of 75. It 
began as a controversy of a very different kind was ending. Ever 
since his ordination to the priesthood in a.d. 391, his work had 
been tormented by the Donatist schism; and he had taken the 
leading part in the efforts to bring it to an end and to reunite the 
Church in Africa, which culminated in the great Conference of 
Carthage in a,d. 41 i — nominally a meeting of Catholic and 
Donatist bishops to discuss their differences, but really a formal 
execution of the Emperor’s resolve to abolish a “new-fangled 
superstition,” the imperial “arbitrator” being that same Count 
Marcellinus to whom Augustine was shortly to address The Spirit 
and the Letter. 

The schism in the African Church, from which Christianity 
in Africa, despite the events of a.d, 41 i , was never to recover, had 
lasted for a full century. It had arisen as an outcome of the Great 
Persecution under Diocletian, in which many of the African 
clergy had succumbed to the order for surrender of the books of 
Scripture. Even before the famous Edict of Milan in a.d. 313 
gave freedom of worship to Christians, rival bishops had been 
set up in Carthage. The ostensible ground of objection to the 
“Catholic” bishop Caecilian was that his consecration had been 
invalid, because one of his consecrators had been a traditor, a 
surrenderer of the Scriptures in the persecution. No such charge 
was made against Caecilian himself, but he was accused of un- 
christian conduct towards imprisoned confessors, and generally 
of discouraging the cult of martyrs, which had long been a 
cherished element of popular Christiamty in Africa. In a.d. 313, 

251 



AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


252 

the Emperor Constantine instructed the Proconsul of Africa to 
restore to the Church the property of which it had been de- 
prived, and made it clear that he regarded Caecilian as the 
legitimate bishop. The rival party immediately appealed to him 
for arbitration on their case by bishops from overseas. There was 
a series of investigations, by episcopal councils at Rome and at 
Arles in Gaul, by the Proconsul in Africa, and by the Emperor 
himself at Milan. Each time, judgment went against the 
Donatists; but they were defiant, and refused to surrender the 
churches which they held. An attempt was made to enforce the 
imperial decision by the secular arm, and the Donatists counted 
their first ‘^martyrs” from this period. But Constantine had 
other matters on hand, the '"persecution” was given up, and the 
African Church was left divided. Thirty years later, Donatus, 
who had given his name to the schismatic party and was still its 
leader, felt himself strong enough to ask the Emperor Constans 
for recognition as sole bishop of Carthage. By that time, his 
party had acquired supporters who were to prove a doubtful 
advantage to them. There had arisen a kind of chronic "peasant 
revolt,” carried on by bands of religious fanatics known as 
Circumcellions, who combined the redress of agrarian griev- 
ances and the cancellation of debts with the pursuit of martyr- 
dom, and terrorized the countryside under a Donatist war-cry. 
In A.D, 347, Constans sent a commission to Africa to pacify the 
Church, with offers of funds to both sides for the relief of distress. 
But Donatus rejected them, as well as the imperial intervention 
for which he had asked, with the protest which was to become 
notorious — "What has Emperor to do with Church?” — and 
appeasement was abandoned for repression. Troops were 
called in, and there was fighting and massacre. Donatus himself 
was exiled, and Donatism was confirmed in its representation 
of itself as the Church of martyrs, and of the "Catholics” as 
bloody persecutors. The accession of Julian the Apostate in a.d. 
361, with his pohcy of general toleration for all religions and sects, 
allowed the leaders of the schism to return in full strength, and 
this time at least the Donatists were the aggressors. Africa was 
torn with communal rioting, violence and bloodshed. Despite 
the recovery of imperial favour by the Catholics after Julian’s 
death, Donatism might well have advanced to final victory, if it 
had not lent its support once and again in the last quarter of 
the century to risings against Roman authority led by Moorish 
rebels. That, and the increasing scandal of Circumcellion out- 
rages, convinced the Court that strong action was needed. In 



HOMILIES ON I JOHN 253 

A.D. 405, the existing laws against heresy were applied to the schis- 
matics: their meetings and services were prohibited, and they 
became liable to heavy fines and economic disabilities, though 
there was no infliction of the death penalty. The desire of the 
Catholics, under Augustine’s leadership, to represent their vic- 
tory as one of reason rather than of force, was met by the formal 
hearing and dismissal of the Donatist case, at the Conference of 
Carthage in a.d. 41 i, after which Donatism was finally pro- 
scribed, But though it ceased to exist as an organized Church, and 
many of its congregations returned to the Catholic allegiance, 
there was no full reunion. Donatism survived the Vandal in- 
vasion which was swamping Roman Africa when Augustine 
died in a.d. 430, and it was still strong enough to trouble Pope 
Gregory at the end of the sixth century. 

Augustine believed that the “origin and stubbornness of the 
schism” came from nothing else but the “hatred of brothers.” 
That private and personal enmities had much to do with the 
original dispute, and that the violence and cruelties which 
accompanied its prolongation so exacerbated the issues as to 
make them irreconcilable, is sufficiently clear. But the trouble 
could not have lasted so long with such persistence and bitter- 
ness, had there not been deeper causes at work. The history of 
the schism shows at many points that social and economic 
factors were engaged as well as religious and ecclesiastical. The 
lines of cleavage between Donatist and Catholic ran in close 
parallel to those which in the Roman Africa of the fourth cen- 
tury divided native from immigrant, Punic or Berber from 
Latin speech, upland village from coastal town, peasant holder 
from wealthy land-owner — in short, a non-Roman and subject 
from a Romanized and dominant society. There was no clear- 
cut geographical division, but the strength of one side lay in 
Numidia and of the other in the Old Province of proconsular 
Africa. It was by no accident that seventy Numidian bishops 
descended upon Carthage m a.d. 312 to consecrate a rival bishop 
in place of Caecilian, and that the great Donatus who soon suc- 
ceeded their nominee as leader of die opposition was a Numi- 
dian from the High Plains, Numidia was always the stronghold 
of Donatism, while in the Old Province, even in Carthage itself, 
it was never more than a minority. 

This does not mean, as has sometimes been suggested, that 
the schism was no more than an accidental symptom of African 
nationalism. Donatism arose at the moment when the Roman 
Empire turned from being the Church’s persecutor to be its 



AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


^^54 

patron, and the Church from drawing life from the blood of its 
martyrs to be in large measure the pensioner of the State. The 
schism was a movement of revolt, but the revolt was at bottom 
religious and not political in motive. It is best understood as a 
protest against the subordination of the Church to the secular 
power which Christianity had resisted ever since its birth. That 
the Donatists were ready on occasion to appeal to the State or 
to take advantage of state legislation does not alter the essential 
character of their conflict with the established Church in Africa. 
For them, the perfect Christian must always be the martyr. 
Apostasy, the cowardly refusal to die for the faith, must always 
be unforgivable sin: the Christian priest who commits that sin 
can be priest no longer. More than that, he is a plague-spot that 
must infect all who hold communion with him. '^Touch not the 
unclean thing.’’ 

The Donatists had a case, though they produced no one cap- 
able of stating it with the force needed to meet a controversialist 
of Augustine’s calibre. Augustine argued, first, that they had 
failed from the beginning to establish the facts, connected with 
Caecilian’s consecration, by which they justified their schism; 
and secondly, that even if the facts were established, the schism 
could be justified only by doctrines of the nature of the Church 
and the Sacraments which were untenable, and which in his 
view transformed it into a heresy. On the question of fact, it is 
now generally agreed that the documentary evidence, bearing 
upon the actions of African bishops in the Great Persecution and 
the events of a.d. 312, tells conclusively against the Donatist 
claims. The doctrinal issue is much more complicated. It centred 
upon the single point of church practice which divided Catholic 
and schismatic. In the time of Cyprian, the African Church had 
refused to recognize the validity of baptism conferred by any 
person outside Catholic communion, and so required the re- 
baptism of all converts baptized in heresy or schism. The 
Church of Rome had adopted the view that all baptism, per- 
formed as the Church performs it, is valid; and this had led to a 
sharp controversy between Africa and Rome in which neither 
side gave way — though (as Augustine was always reminding his 
Donatist adversaries) there was no breach of communion be- 
tween the Churches. Rebaptism remained the African practice 
until the same Council of Arles in a.d. 314, which rejected the 
Donatist charges against Caecilian, pronounced against it. 
Thereafter, the Catholic Church in Africa fell into line with 
Rome. The Donatists maintained the practice of Cyprian and 



HOMILIES ON I JOHN 255 

the doctrine which supported it: namely, that the Holy Spirit 
is given only in and through the Holy Church, and that outside 
the Church there is neither salvation nor sacrament of salvation. 
This meant that the validity of the sacrament could not be 
independent of the person of the minister who must represent 
the Church. Now Cyprian had declared it to be the duty of 
Catholic Christians to refuse the ministrations of unworthy 
priests; and there can be little doubt that he would have re- 
garded apostasy in any form as a disqualification for the per- 
formance of priestly functions. The Donatists were fully justified 
in appealing to his authority as representing the common tradi- 
tion of the Church in Africa: no traditor can perform a valid 
sacrament. The point was not really met when Augustine in 
turn appealed to Cyprian’s use, against his own rigorist oppo- 
nents, of the parable of the tares, to show that the Church in this 
world must tolerate the presence of sinners within her body. The 
Donatists pointed out, with some justice, that in the Gospel 
interpretation of the parable the “field” is not the Church 
but the world. They did indeed refuse to accept the Catholic 
argument that the holiness of the Church, “without spot or 
wrinkle,” cannot be realized in this world. But there is no 
evidence that their ecclesiastical discipline was more rigorous 
than that of the Catholics, and it is a mistake to attribute to 
them a Puritan theory of the Church, hke that of the Novatians 
with whom Cyprian had had to deal. Their real concern was 
with the status of the minister, not of the layman; and even in 
the case of the minister they recognized the fact that not all sm 
is open and notorious. What, in their view, must defile the 
Church and render the sacrament invalid is the attempted 
ministration of a priest known to be guilty of mortal sin. In their 
view, the “Catholics” of Africa had abandoned the sound tradi- 
tion of’her Church as a quid pro quo for the decision in their 
favour by the Council of Arles on the question of fact. It was 
thus Augustine and not the Donatist who was obliged to work 
out an ecclesiology to support an admitted innovation in prac- 
tice. If we cannot regard his attempt as successful, that will be 
because he shared with his opponents the rigid dogma of 
Cyprian that there is no salvation outside the Church. It fol- 
lowed for him as for them that baptism and orders conferred 
outside the Church must so far be ineffectual. If such sacraments 
are not to be repeated when the recipient enters the Church, 
they must possess a validity which is unaffected by the status of 
the minister: the recipient in heresy or schism has really been 



256 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

baptized or ordained, because (so Augustine urged) die real 
minister in every sacrament is none other than Christ himself 
‘This is he which baptizeth with the Holy Spirif’(John 1:33)^ 
But if, as Augustine had to maintain, such sacraments possess 
no saving efficacy unless and until the recipient becomes a mem- 
ber of the Catholic Church, it has to be supposed that the Holy 
Spirit whom Christ gives through them remains as it were 
inactive so long as the recipient is outside that Church’s 
communion. 

This distinction between the validity and the efficacy of the 
sacrament has been almost exactly reversed in modern thoughi 
and usage: Catholics will now recognize that the sacraments o: 
non-episcopal bodies have at least a measure of real efficacy ir 
the fruits they bear, though they are “invalid” in the sense o] 
irregular. Augustine tried to make sense of his own distinctior 
by insisting that the Holy Spirit is the Spirit of chanty^ which is 
the “bond of perfectness” (Col. 3:14), and that the “umty o] 
the Spirit” can be kept only in “the bond of peace” (Eph. 4:3), 
All schism, all separation from the Church, violates charity anc 
therefore stifles the life of the Spirit. The great saying of Paul 
that “neither circumcision availeth anything nor uncircum- 
cision, but faith working through love” (Gal. 5:6), underlies all 
that has permanent value in Augustine’s teaching on Churd 
and Sacraments. In neither one nor the other can faith be 
efficacious, can it be Christian faith at all, unless it expresses 
Itself in the “energizing” of charity. The principle is in theoiy 
inexpugnable. Its practical application by Augustine to the 
Donatist controversy involved him in the claim that the 
energizing of charity was in fact manifested in the Catholic 
Church and not in the schismatic. The Donatists rejoined thai 
such a claim assorted ill with a record of persecution; and wher 
Augustine began his struggle for reunion, he was insistent that 
the Church must avoid giving any occasion for such a rejoinder, 
He knew well the obstinacy of his opponents, yet he threw all his 
influence into the pursuit of a policy of reconciliation by peace- 
ful discussion of differences. What made the policy so difficuli 
to carry out was the fact that the Donatists with their Circum- 
cellion “soldiers of Christ” were so often guilty of actions whict 
were criminal by the law; and it was difficult to deny to the 
victims of such actions their proper legal redress. Even so. 
Augustine was able to persuade his Catholic colleagues to inter- 
cede frequently on behalf of the convicted Donatist for the 
remission or mitigation of the legal penalty. In the end, like the 



HOMILIES ON I JOHN 257 

imperial authorities in their dealings with the Christians of the 
second century, Augustine himself gave up the attempt to dis- 
tinguish between the “name” of Donatism and the “crimes 
attaching to the name,” and accepted the proscription of 
Donatism as such. The Donatists themselves had constantly 
used force as a method of proselytizing: there seemed no answer 
but the legalized use of force against them, if the Church was to 
carry out her clear duty towards the many whom fear was 
retaining in schism against their will. 

Hence the tragic capitulation of the great preacher of Chris- 
tian charity to the principle of religious persecution. “Compel 
them to come in.” It is upon this background that we must hear 
the impassioned encomia of charity in the Homilies on St. JoMs 
Epistle. Hippo lay within the border of Numidia, and Augustine’s 
episcopate had always been the charge of a harassed minority. 
Vacillation on the side of the State, even after the decisions 
of A.D. 41 1 , had delayed the effective enforcement of those 
decisions; and when, probably towards the end of the year 414, 
Augustine began to deliver his Homilies on St. John^s Gospel^ 
Donatism was still troublesome enough in his diocese to call for 
constant reference and systematic refutation in his exposition of 
the first few chapters: the fifth and sixth Homilies are entirely 
devoted to the application against the Donatists of the text 
John 1 : 32, 33, and we hear that the cathedral in spite of the very 
cold weather was crowded to hear them. At Eastertide a.d. 415 
Augustine broke off his course on the Gospel to interpolate the 
Homilies on the Epistle, and both the choice of theme and the 
treatment of it show that the schism is still in the forefront of his 
concern. But soon after the resumption of the Homilies on the 
Gospel, references in them to Donatism cease almost completely. 
It is a reasonable inference that the long-drawn-out struggle 
ended in Hippo with the collapse of opposition just at this time.i 
Charity at last had won the day; but in celebrating its victory 
Augustine could not forget that the victory had not been 
achieved, as once he hoped it might be, by the spiritual arm 
alone. “Love, and do what thou wilt” is the most famous saying 
in the Homilies. Read in its context (Horn. VII, 8), it is the 
preacher’s defence of compulsion in the service of love — the sad 
monument of an uneasy conscience, seeking to assure itself that 
the end justifies the means. 

For the rest, the Homilies need no introduction. They are, of 
course, sermons and not a commentary, though they follow the 
1 See M. le Landais in Etudes Augustinimnes, pp. 72-80. 



258 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

course of the Epistle verse by verse. Augustine’s exegesis is often 
unsatisfactory, and his arguments on the text of Scripture are 
often forced: for example, he is at pains to reconcile the apparent 
contradiction between I John 1:8 and 3:9 by supposing that 
there is om sin and one only which he who '‘abides in Christ” 
can never commit, and that is the transgression of the new 
commandment of brotherly love. But if he is an indifferent 
exegete, he is an incomparable preacher. These Homilies show 
him at the summit of his extraordinary power to move the soul. 



Ten Homilies 

on the First Epistle of St. John 

THE TEXT 
Prologue 

As you know, my people, I have been giving you a course of 
sermons on the Gospel according to John. During the present 
holy festival, the Church gives us certain fixed Lessons to be 
read year by year, which we must not alter; so that there will 
have to be a short break in the course which we had begun, and 
which we shall afterwards continue. I have considered what 
part of Scripture would be a fitting subject on which to speak 
to you, as the Lord may grant me ability, during this joyous 
week, and which could be completed in these seven or eight 
days; and I have chosen the Epistle of John. We shall then 
stiU be listening to him whose Gospel we have for a while put 
down. It is a book very sweet to every healthy Christian heart 
that savours the bread of God; and it should be constantly in the 
mind of God’s Holy Church. But I choose it more particularly 
because what it specially commends to us is charity. The man 
who has in himself that of which he hears must rejoice at the 
hearing. To him this reading will be like oil on the flame: if 
there is matter in him for nounshment, it will be nourished, it 
will grow and abide. For some, the Epistle should be like flame 
to firewood: if it was not already burning, the touch of the word 
may kindle it. In some, then, what is present is to be nourished: 
in some, what may be lacking is to be kindled; so that we may 
all rejoice together in one single charity. Where there is charity, 
there is peace: where there is humility, there is charity. And 
now let us hear John himself; and let me speak for your better 
understanding whatever the Lord shall put into my mind as I 
read the apostle’s words. 


259 



FIRST HOMILY 
I John 1:1-2; 1 1 

I. '^That which was from the beginning, which we have heard, 
and which we have seen with our eyes, and our hands have 
handled, of the word of life.” 

There could be no handling with hands of the word, had not 
the Word been made flesh and dwelt among us. This Word, 
made flesh to be handled with hands, took its beginning as flesh 
from the virgin Mary; but it took not then its beginning as 
Word — ^for we read: “that which was from the beginning.” 
Epistle is confirmed by Gospel, in which you have already 
heard: “In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was 
with God.” 1 One might understand “the word of life” as a 
speaking about Christ, and not the actual body of Christ, 
handled with hands. But see what follows: “and the life itself 
was manifested.” Christ, then, is the word of hfe. How “mani- 
fested”? He was from the beginning, but not manifested to man, 
though manifested to the sight of angels, feeding as it were upon 
their own Bread. But we read that “man did eat angels’ food.” 2 
The Life itself has been manifested in flesh — ^set m manifestation, 
that what can be seen by the heart alone might be seen also by 
the eyes for the healing of hearts. Only by the heart is the Word 
seen: flesh is seen by the bodily eyes. We had the means of 
seeing the flesh, but not of seeing the Word: the Word was made 
flesh which we could see, that the heart, by which we should 
see the Word, might be healed. 

2. “We have seen and are witnesses” — ^seen, that is, as mani- 
fested, and manifested by the light of this sun. The sun’s Maker 
could only be seen by that sun’s light, because he “set his taber- 
nacle in the sun, going forth himself as a bridegroom out of his 
1 John I : I. 2 Ps. 78. 25. 

260 



HOMILIES ON I JOHN 26l 

chamber, rejoicing as a giant to run his course.” ^ He who was 
before the sun which he made, before the day-star and all 
stars, before all angels, the true Creator (for all things were 
made by him, and without him was nothing made),^ that he 
might be seen by the eyes of flesh which see the sun, set his own 
tabernacle in the sun — ^showed his flesh in manifestation by 
this light: the Bridegroom’s chamber was the virgin’s womb, 
where Bridegroom and Bride, Word and flesh, were joined to- 
gether. It is written: “And the two shall be in one flesh,” or, as 
the Lord says in the Gospel, “therefore they are no longer two, 
but one flesh.” ^ So finely does Isaiah make the two one, when 
he speaks in Christ’s person, “He put a band upon my head as 
on a bridegroom, and adorned me as a bride with her orna- 
ments.” ^ The one speaker makes himself both Bridegroom and 
Bride; for they are “not two, but one flesh,” since “the Word 
was made flesh and dwelt among us.” When to that flesh is 
joined the Church, there is the whole Christ, Head and Body.'^ 

3. “And we have seen, and are witnesses; and we make 
known to you the eternal life, which was with the Father and 
has been manifested among us: that which we have seen and 
heard, we make known to you.” 

They saw the Lord himself present in the flesh, and they 
heard the words of his mouth, and made them known to us. We 
also then have heard, but we have not seen. Are we less happy 
than they, who both saw and heard? No, for it goes on: “that ye 
also may have fellowship with us.” They have seen, and we have 
not; yet we are their fellows, because we hold a common faith. 
There was one of them who saw, yet believed not, but would 
feel before he believed, saying: “unless I put my fingers into the 
print of the nails, and touch his scars, I will not believe.”® So he 
who ever gives himself to be seen of angels gave himself for a 
time to be felt by the hands of men; and that disciple felt him 
and exclaimed, “My Lord and my God.” Because he had 
touched a man, he confessed his God. And the Lord, for the 
comfort of us who cannot handle him with our hands now that 
he sits in heaven, but can touch him by faith, says to Thomas: 
“Because thou hast seen, thou hast beheved: blessed are they 
who see not and believe.” 

It is we who are so described and designated. Let us then 

3 Ps. 19:5. 4 John I 3. 

5 Gen, 2,24, Matt. 19 6. ^ Isa 61 lo 

7 Augustine’s constant doctrine, that the incarnate Christ and his Church 

are a single “whole.” s John 20*25 fi*. 



262 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

receive the blessing which the Lord has promised: let us hold 
fast that which we see not, since they who saw have made it 
known to us. 

^That ye also may have fellowship with us.’’ You may think 
it no great matter to have fellowship with men. But see what 
follows: “and our fellowship be with God the Father and his 
Son Jesus Christ. These things we write to you that your joy 
may be full.” That fulness of joy is in the fellowship, the charity, 
the unity itself. 

4. “And this is the message which we have heard from him 
and make known to you . . . that God is light, and there is no 
darkness in him.” The light and darkness here spoken of have 
nothing to do with our bodily eyes. As God surpasses the 
creature, as the Maker the thing made, as Wisdom itself sur- 
passes that to which Wisdom has given being, so that light must 
far transcend all others. Perhaps we shall come near that light, 
if we know what it is and set ourselves before it that we may 
have enlightenment from it. In ourselves we are darkness: en- 
Kghtened by it, we may become light: it will not confound us, 
because we confound ourselves. To confound myself is to know 
myself a sinner: not to be confounded by the light is to be en- 
lightened by it. The man who sees himself darkened by sin and 
longs to be enlightened by the hght, is drawing near to it. As 
the Psalm says: “Draw near to him and be enlightened; and 
your faces shall not be ashamed.” ^ The light will not shame you, 
if it shows you your own ugliness, and that ugliness so offends 
you that you perceive the beauty of the light. 

5. Have we expounded our text too hastily? We shall see as 
we proceed. Remember the words that came before: “that ye 
may have fellowship with us, and our fellowship be with God 
the Father, and his Son Jesus Christ.” God is light, and there is 
no darkness in him, and we should have fellowship with him. 
The darkness must be driven from us, that the light may be in 
us; for darkness can have no fellowship with light — as Paul 
says. But what follows? “If we say that we have fellowship 
with him, and walk in darkness, we he.” A man may well say 
to himselJF, ^‘What can I do, how can I become light? I live in 
sins and iniquities.” A gloomy despair creeps over him. There is 
no salvation but in feUowship with God. God is light, and there 
is no darkness in him. Iniquities are darkness: our iniquities 
overwhelm us, so that we cannot have fellowship with God. 
What hope is there? 

5 Ps. 34*5. 10 II Cor 6.14. 



HOMILIES ON I JOHN 263 

Am I failing to keep my promise that in these days I should 
have a message of joy to speak to you? Listen: there may be a 
word of comfort, encouragement, and hope, that we faint not 
by the way. We are travellers, travelling to our home-land, and 
if we despair of reaching it, in our despair we faint. But he 
whose will it is that we should reach the home-land where he 
will keep us, nourishes us upon our journey. Listen: “If we walk 
in the light as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one 
another.” And what of our sins? “The blood of Jesus Christ his 
Son shall cleanse us from all transgression.” Great is the con- 
fidence that God has given us. Well may we celebrate our 
Paschal sacrifice, in which the Lord’s blood is shed to cleanse us 
from all transgression. Let us rest confident: the devil held against 
us a bond of slavery, but Christ’s blood has wiped it out. 

Think for a moment of those brothers of ours whom we call 
“infants” : but now, in the name of Christ whom they have 
confessed, all their sins have been washed away by his blood. 
They came, old, into the Baptistery and went out new — came in 
aged and went out infants. Their old life was somnolent age: 
their new life is the infancy of regeneration. But remember that 
past sins have been forgiven not only to them but to us. After 
the forgiving and wiping away of all sins, our life amidst the 
temptations of this world may not avoid all stain. Then let a 
man do what he can: let him confess what he is, that he may be 
healed by the one who never changes. For he alone ever was, 
and is: we were not, and we are. 

6. “If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and 
the truth is not in us.” — If then you confess yourself a sinner, 
the truth is in you, for the truth itself is light. Your life is not yet 
perfect in brightness, for there are sins in it: yet your enlighten- 
ment has begun with your confession of sin. Read on: “but if we 
confess our transgressions, he is faithful and just to forgive us 
our transgressions and to cleanse us from all iniquity.” Not only 
the transgressions that are past, but any that this life brings 
upon us; for so long as a man wears flesh, he cannot be without 
at least the lesser sms. But these that we call the lesser must not 
be made light of: if you make light of their gravity, you must 
tremble at their number. The many lesser make a large: many 
drops fill up a river, many grains make a lump. Where then is 
our hope? First of all, in confession; that none count himself 
righteous, man who was not, and is, lifting up his head before 
the eyes of God who sees what he is. First of all, then, confession, 
11 The baptism of catechumens took place on Easter Eve. 



Augustine: later works 


264 

and next, love; for of charity it is said that it covers the multi- 
tude of sins.i^ Let us see whether charity itself is not com- 
mended to us on account of the transgressions that steal upon 
us; for charity alone can quench transgression. Pride quenches 
charity: humility strengthens it: charity quenches transgression. 
Humility is part of our confession that we are sinners. But 
humility lies not in the spoken word, which might seek only to 
avoid the offence of arrogance in calling ourselves righteous. 
In wickedness and folly a man will say: I know that I am right- 
eous, but I cannot say so openly, for folk will not suffer it: let 
my righteousness be known of God, and I will call myself a 
sinner — ^not because I am, but that I may not be set down as 
arrogant and offensive. No, say what you are, to man as well as 
to God. If you do not tell God what you are, he will condemn 
what he finds in you. If you would not have his condem- 
nation, speak your own. If you would have his pardon, do you 
acknowledge your need of it: say to God, “Turn thy face 
from my sins”; say with the Psalmist, “For I acknowledge my 

iniquity.” 13 

“If we confess our transgressions, he is faithful and just to 
forgive us our transgressions and to cleanse us from all iniquity. 
If we say that we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and his 
word is not in us.” If you say, I have not sinned, you make him 
a liar in seeking to maintain your own truth; but how can God 
be a liar, and man true, in the face of Scripture: “Let every man 
be a liar and God only true”? 1^ God in himself is true, you in 
yourself are a liar: in God you can be true. 

7. These words, “faithful and just to cleanse us from all 
iniquity,” might seem to offer impunity to sin. Men might say 
to themselves, “We can sin, w^e can do freely what we will, for 
Christ cleanses us, he is faithful and just, he cleanses us from all 
iniquity.” This e’s^ confidence must be taken from you, and a 
wholesome fear put in its place: be careful, not confident. He is 
faithful and just to forgive us our transgressions: but only if you 
are never self-satisfied, if you are always being made perfect 
through change. “My little children, these things I write to you 
that ye sin not.” What then will happen, if, human as we are, 
some sin overtake us? Must we then despair? “If any man sin, 
we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the right- 
eous; and he is the propitiator of our sins.”!^'' Christ is the advo- 
cate. Strive yourself not to sin; but if human weakness suffers 

12 I Pet. 4:8. 13 Ps. 51:9, 3. 14 Rom. 3*4. 

Augustine’s version of this text vanes between propitiator and propitiatio. 



HOMILIES ON I JOHN 265 

sin to overtake you, look to it instantly, let it instantly offend 
you, instantly condemn it; and having condemned it, you may 
come in confidence before the judge. For there is your advocate: 
do not fear to lose the cause in which you confess. If in the affairs 
of this life a man may commit himself to a clever speaker and so 
escape loss, shall you be lost if you commit yourself to the Word 
himself? Cry aloud, ‘‘We have an advocate with the Father.” 

8. See how John himself keeps humility. A righteous man, 
a great man, who from the Lord’s breast drank deep mysteries, 
draughts of divinity from which he proclaimed: “In the begin- 
ning was the Word, and the Word was with God” — this John 
did not say. Ton have an advocate with the Father, but. If any man 
sin, we have an advocate. Neither, “you have,” nor, “you have 
me”: Christ, not himself, and “we” not “you.” Rather would he 
set himself among sinners and have Christ for his advocate, than 
set himself as advocate in Christ’s place and be found among 
the proud who face condemnation. My brothers, Jesus Christ 
the righteous is he whom we have as advocate with the Father: 
he is the propitiation of our sins. The man who held fast to this, 
caused no heresy, no schism. Schisms arise when men say, we 
are righteous; when they say, we sanctify the unclean, we 
justify the wicked, we ask, we obtain. But what said John? “If 
any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ 
the righteous.” You will say. But may not holy men ask on our 
behalf? May not bishops and rulers ask on behalf of the people? 
Look at the Scripture, and you will find rulers commending 
themselves to the people’s prayers. The apostle says to his people, 
“Praying also for us.” The apostle prays for the people and the 
people for the apostle. We pray for you, my brothers; but do you 
also pray for us. Let all the members pray for one another, and 
let the Head intercede for all. No wonder then that what follows 
here should shut the mouths of those who divide God’s Church. 
John has said that we have Jesus Christ the righteous, himself 
the propitiation of our sins; but he knew that there would be 
some who would set themselves apart, saying, “Lo, here is 
Christ, or lo, there!” 1*7 trying to show that he who pur- 
chased the whole and possesses the whole is only in the part.^^ 

15 Reference is to the Donatist principle that purity of conscience in the 
“giver” of the sacrament is needed for the cleansing of the conscience of 
the recipient: see c, Litt PetiL, I, jz (i) ff , and III, 9 (viii) ff. 

15 Col. 4:3. 

17 Matt. 24:23 

18 Reference is to the Donatist assertion that the Catholic Church through- 
out the world has been polluted by communion with the polluted Church 



AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


266 

Therefore he adds at once: "'not only of our sins, but of the 
sins of the whole world.” . . . Think, brethren, what that means. 
Surely we are pointed to the Church in all nations, the 
Church throughout the whole world. Be not led astray by 
those who pretend to justify but in fact mutilate. Abide in that 
mountain which has filled the worlds for Christ is ‘Hhe pro- 
pitiation of our sins, and not of ours only, but also of the whole 
world” — ^which he has won by his blood. 

9. “And hereby we know him, if we keep his command- 
ments.” Which commandments? “Whosoever saith that he 
knows him, and keepeth not his commandments, is a liar, and 
the truth is not in him.” You ask still, Which commandments? 
“Whosoever keepeth his word, truly in him is the love of God 
perfect.” Maybe the commandment itself is named love. We 
asked. What commandments?, and we are told that “whosoever 
keepeth his word, truly in him is the love of God perfect.” Turn 
to the Gospel and see if this is not the commandment: “A new 
commandment give I unto you, that ye love one another.”20 
“Hereby we know that we are in him, if we are made perfect in 
him.” It speaks of the perfect in love: what is love’s perfection? 
To love our enemies, and to love them to the end that they may 
be our brothers. Love your enemies, desiring them for brothers: 
love your enemies, calling them into your fellowship. For so loved 
he who as he hung upon the Cross said, “Father, forgive them, 
for they know not what they do.” ^ 1 ‘ 'Hereby we know that we are 
in him, if we are made perfect in him.” It was of the perfection 
of love for enemies that the Lord said: “Be ye therefore perfect as 
your heavenly Father is perfect.” 22 “He,” therefore, “who says 
that he abides in him, ought himself to walk as he walked.” And 
how is that, my brethren? What is “walking as Christ walked”? 
Walking upon the sea? 23 No, it is walking m the way of right- 
eousness; and of that way I have already spoken. Nailed fast 
upon the Cross, he was walking in the way — the way of charity. 
“Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do.” So 
then, when you have learnt to pray for your enemy, you will 
walk the way of the Lord. 

in Africa. Augxistine constantly appealed against them (as here) to the 
scriptural promises of a world-wide extension of the Church, and he 
seems never to have considered the possibility that these promises may 
have to wait much longer for their fulfilment 
19 Dan. 2*35. 20 John 13.34. 

21 Luke 23 34. 

22 Matt. 5:48. 

23 Matt. 14. 25 ff. 



HOMILIES ON I JOHN 267 

10. ^'Beloved, I write not unto you a new commandmentj but 
the old commandment which ye had from the beginning. The 
old commandment is the word which ye have heard.” Old, 
that is, because you have heard it before. But he shows it to be 
also new, when he says: ‘‘'Again a new commandment I write 
unto you.” Not another commandment, but the same one that 
he called old, is also new. Why is this? “Which is true in himself 
and in you.” You have heard why it is old: because you knew 
it already; but why is it new? “Because the darkness is passed, 
and the true light now shineth.” That is what makes it new; 
for the darkness belongs to the old man, the light to the new. 
“Put off the old man,” says Paul, “and put on the new” ^4; and 
again: “Ye were sometime darkness, but now light in the 

Lord.” 25 

11. “He that saith he is in the light” — now the whole mean- 

ing is to be made clear — “He that saith he is in the light, and 
hateth his brother, is still in darkness.” Ah, my brothers, shall I 
continue saying to you. Love your enemies? Are you sure that 
you are not still hating your brothers — ^which is worse than 
failing to love enemies? If you loved your brothers only, you 
would not yet be perfect, but if you hate your brothers, what 
and where are you? Look each one into his own heart: cherish 
no hate against a brother for some hard word: in a quarrel for 
earth, turn not to earth. Whoever hates his brother may not 
say that he walks in the light — still less, that he walks in Christ. 
“He who saith he is m the hght and hateth his brother, is in 
darkness until now.” — Such and such a man, who was a pagan, 
has turned Christian, Think what has happened: a pagan, he 
was in darkness; now, he has become a Christian. All rejoice 
for him with thanks to God. We repeat the apostle’s greeting: 
“Ye were sometime darkness, but now are light in the Lord.” 
He worshipped idols, but now God: he worshipped the work of 
his own hands, but now the God who made him. He is changed: 
thanks be to God, all Christians rejoice for him. Why? Because 
now he is a worshipper of Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, and a 
hater of demons and idols. But still John is anxious for him: in 
the general rejoicing there is still mistrust. My brothers, let us 
take to our hearts that motherly anxiety. Not without reason 
is the mother anxious for us, when others rejoice — I mean the 
mother Charity, who dwelt in the heart of John when he thus 
spoke. For there is that in us which makes him fear even when 
men rejoice over us: and what is his fear? “He who saith that he 
24 Col 3*9 f. 25Eph 5.8. 



AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


268 

is in the light’’ — says that he is now a Christian — '*and hateth 
his brother, is in darkness still.” There is nothing here to ex- 
pound, but only that which must sadden if it comes to pass, and 
gladden if it be avoided. 

12. “He that loveth his brother, abideth in the light, and 
there is no occasion of offence in him.” Those who take or 
cause offence are those who are offended in Christ and his 
Church. If you keep hold of charity, you shall take offence 
neither in Christ nor in the Church; and you will desert neither 
Christ nor the Church. The deserter of the Church cannot be 
in Christ, since he is not among Christ’s members: he cannot be 
in Christ, who is not in Christ’s Body. It is they who desert 
either Christ or the Church who take offence. But we can see 
that in him who loves his brother there is no offence; for the 
lover of his brother endures all things for unity’s sake. In the 
unity of charity brotherly love consists. You are offended by 
such and such a man, whether he be really evil, or evil only in 
your belief or only in your pretence; and you abandon all the 
many good. What sort of brotherly love has been shown in our 
Donatists? Because of their charge against Africans they have 
abandoned the world. 2^ Were there no saints in the world at 
large? Was it right for you to condemn them unheard? No, if 
you loved your brothers, there would be no occasion of offence 
in you. What does the Psalm say? — “Great peace have they 
which love thy law, and there is no offence for them.” 27 So they 
who take offence, lose their peace; and they who do not take or 
cause offence are the lovers of God’s law, so that their dwelling 
is charity. If it be said that the Psalm speaks of the lovers of 
God’s law and not of brothers, then hear the Lord’s words: “A 
new commandment give I unto you, that ye love one another.” 
Law and commandment are one. And not taking offence is but 
forbearing one another, according to Paul’s saying: “for- 
bearing one another in love, striving to keep the unity of the 
Spirit in the bond of peace.” 28 And that this is the law of Christ 
is shown by the same apostle’s enjoining of that law: “Bear 
ye one another’s burdens, and so shall ye fulfil the law of 
Christ.” 29 

13. “For he that hateth his brother is in darkness, and walk- 
eth in darkness, and knoweth not whither he goeth; because the 
darkness hath blinded his eyes.” — ^There is no blindness like 
that of those who hate their brothers. The proof is, that they 

26 Cf. above, c. 8, n. 18. 27 ps. 119: 165. 

28 Eph. 4-«f, 29 Gal. 6,2. 



HOMILIES ON I JOHN 269 

Stumble on the mountain. We know that the stone cut from 
the mountain without hands is Christ who came of the kingdom 
of Jewry without human father: the stone that shattered all the 
kingdoms of the earthy all the tyrannies of idols and devils; the 
stone that grew and became a great mountain, and filled the 
whole world. We do not have to point out that mountain with 
the finger, as we sometimes point out the new moon to the 
short-sighted. This is a mountain that fills the whole face of the 
earth, the city of which it is written, ‘‘a city that is set on a hill 
cannot be hid.^^i And our Donatists stumble on the mountain, 
and when we tell them ‘^Go up!” they say, “There is no moun- 
tain there,” and will sooner strike their face against it than seek 
a dwelling on it. Yesterday we read the text of Isaiah: “In 
the last days the mountain of the Lord’s house shall be mani- 
fested, made ready on the summit of the mountains; and all 
nations shall come together unto it.” 32 Who can go astray 
on that mountain? Who can break his head by stumbling upon 
it? Who cannot recognize the city set on a hill? No wonder that 
it is not recognized by those who hate their brothers; for they 
walk in darkness and know not whither they go; for the darkness 
hath blinded their eyes. That is the proof of their blindness: they 
hate their brothers. Because they find cause of stumbling in 
Africa, they cut themselves off from the world: to brethren 
whom they slander they refuse toleration for the sake of the 
peace of Christ; while to others, whom they condemn, they 
grant it for the sake of the party of Donatus.33 

30 Cf. c. 8 above; the allusion is to Dan 2.34 f. 

31 Matt. 5.14. 

32 Isa. 2 2 

33 Augustine frequently taxed the Donatists with inconsistency in recogniz- 
ing the sacraments of the Maximianists, a sect which had split off from 
the main body of their Church. 



SECOND HOMILY 
I John 2: 12-17 

I. All that we read in Holy Scripture for our instruction and 
salvation demands an attentive ear. You have just heard how 
the eyes of those two disciples upon whom the Lord came in the 
way were held so that they did not know him. ^ He found them 
in despair of the redemption that was m Christ, supposing him 
now to have suffered and died as a man, not imagining him to 
live for ever as the Son of God. And then he opened unto them 
the Scripture, and showed them that it behoved the Christ to 
suffer, and all things to be fulfilled that were written concerning 
him in the law of Moses and the prophets and the psalms — ^so 
embracing the whole of the Old Testament. Everything in those 
Scriptures speaks of Chnst, but only to him that has ears. He 
opened their mind to understand the Scriptures; and so let us 
pray that he will open our own. 

2. What was it then which the Lord showed as written con- 
cerning himself in law, prophets, and psalms? The evangelist 
has set it down in few words, that we might know what in all 
that extent of Scripture we should believe and understand. 
There is many a page, many a book; but the content of all is in 
these few words of the Lord to his disciples: ‘'that it behoved the 
Chnst to suffer, and to rise again on the third day.” 2 So much 
we learn of the Bridegroom; and what of the Bride? Wherefore 
must Christ suffer and rise again^ Because “all the ends of the 
world shall remember and turn unto the Lord, and all the kin- 
dreds of the nations shall worship before him.” ^ So here our 
minds are led on from Bridegroom to Bride; “and that in his 

1 In one of the special lessons for Eastertide to which Augustine refers in 
the Prologue: Luke 24: 13 ff. 

2 Luke 24:46. 3 Ps. 22:27 

270 



HOMILIES ON I JOHN 27I 

name repentance and forgiveness of sins should be preached 
through all nations, beginning from Jerusalem.” ^ Brethren, you 
hear: mark it well. Let none doubt that the Church is of all 
nations: let none doubt that it began from Jerusalem and filled 
all nations. 

3. When we tell the Donatists that if they are Catholic 
Christians they must be in communion with that church from 
which the gospel has been spread throughout the world, they 
answer: ‘^We have no communion with the city where our King 
was slain, our Lord was slain.” But he loved that city and had 
compassion on it: therefore he said that the preaching of him- 
self should begin from Jerusalem. You shrink in horror from the 
communion of that city which he made the starting-point for 
the preaching of his name. No wonder! The severed branch may 
hate the root. But he told his disciples: ‘‘tarry ye in the city, 
because I send my promise upon you.” ^ He willed that his dis- 
ciples should tarry there, and that there he should send them 
the Holy Spirit. The Church began in that place where the 
Holy Spirit came from heaven, and filled a hundred and twenty 
persons as they sat together. The number of the apostles was 
multiplied tenfold: there sat in that place a hundred and 
twenty persons, and the Holy Spirit came and filled all the 
place: there was a sound as of a rushing mighty wind, and 
cloven tongues as of fire. You have heard to-day the Lesson from 
the Acts: “They began to speak with tongues as the Spirit gave 
them utterance.” ^ And all that were there, Jews coming from 
divers nations, heard each one his own tongue, and marvelled 
how these unlearned and ignorant men should suddenly have 
learnt, not one or two strange tongues, but the tongues of all 
peoples. That speaking in the beginning in all languages was 
a sign that men of every language should believe. But our 
Donatists, whose love for Christ is such that they refuse com- 
munion with the city that killed him, give to Christ the strange 
honour of confinement to two languages — the Latin, and the 
Punic or African! Christ is to possess two tongues only; for these 
two alone, no more, are spoken by the followers of Donatus.^ 
Brethren, let us keep our minds awake! Let us see rather the 
gift of God’s Spirit: let us believe what was foretold concerning 
him, and let us see the fulfilment of the psalmist’s prophecy: 
“There is neither speech nor language, whose voices shall not 
be heard.” s That this means, not the assembling of tongues in 

4 Luke 24*47 5 Luke 24*49. Acts 2*4. 

7 Cf. Horn., I, 8, 12. » Ps. 19*3 ff. 



272 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

one place, but the coming of the gift of Christ to all tongues, is 
clear from what follows: ‘Their sound is gone out into all the 
earth, and their words unto the end of the world.” And this, 
because “he hath set his tabernacle in the sun” — that is, where 
all may see it. His tabernacle is his flesh: his tabernacle is his 
Church — set in the sun, in the day, not in the night. Why then 
do they not acknowledge it? Turn again to where we ended 
yesterday’s reading, and you will see the reason. “He that hateth 
his brother walketh in darkness, and knoweth not whither he 
goeth; because the darkness hath blinded his eyes.’^ Let us then 
read on, and not be in darkness. We shall not be in dark- 
ness if we love the brethren; and the proof of love for the 
brotherhood lies in not rending our unity, in maintaining 
charity. 

4. “I write unto you, little children, because your sins are 
forgiven you through his name.” “Little children,” because 
new-born by the forgiveness of sins. But whose is the name 
through which sins are forgiven? Certainly not the name of 
Augustine; and therefore not the name of Donatus either. But 
no need to mention Augustine or Donatus: it is not even the 
name of Paul or the name of Peter. When the Corinthians were 
dividing their Church, and setting up parties instead of unity, 
mother Charity, travailing with her children in person of the 
apostle, opens her bosom and speaks as if tearing her breast: 
she weeps for the sons whom she sees borne out to burial, she 
recalls to the one Name those who would enrol themselves 
under many, she sends them back from the love of herself to the 
single love of Christ: “Was Paul crucified for you? or were ye 
baptized in the name of Paul?” ^ In other words: “If you would 
be with me, you must not be mine: be with me, and all of us 
are Christ’s, who died for us, was crucified for us.” And so in 
our text: “your sins are forgiven you through his name” — ^not 
through the name of any man. 

5. “I write unto you, fathers.” Why do “children” come 

first? “Because your sins are forgiven you through his name,” 
and you are born again into a new life — ^which makes you 
children. And why “fathers”? “Because ye have known him 
who is from the beginning”; and there is a beginning in all 
fatherhood. Christ is new in the flesh, ancient in divinity; “be- 
fore Abraham, I am.” And not before Abraham only: heaven 
and earth were made, before there was any man. Before them 
the Lord was, or rather is: most truly does he say, not “before 
’ I Cor. 1 : 13. 10 John 8:58. 



HOMILIES ON I JOHN 273 

Abraham I was/’ but “before Abraham^ I am.” That of which 
we say that it was, is not; and that of which we say that it will 
be, is not yet. He knows only being: begotten of the eternal 
Father, begotten from eternity, in eternity; with no beginning, 
no end, no local extension; because he is that which is, because 
he is he who is. That is the name he told to Moses: “thou shalt 
say unto them. He who is hath sent me unto you.” Therefore, 
to say “before Abraham,” “before Noah,” “before Adam,” is 
not enough. Hear the Scripture: “before the morning star I have 
begotten thee.” 12 And the last word must be “before heaven 
and earth”; for “all things were made through him, and without 
him nothing was made.” ^ 3 Thus you may know who are 
fathers; for they become fathers by knowing that which is from 
the beginning. 

6. “I write unto unto you, young men.” There are children, 
fathers, and young men: children, because they are born, 
fathers because they know the beginning, and why “young 
men”? “Because ye have overcome the evil one.” To children 
belongs birth, to fathers age, to young men strength. If the evil 
one is overcome by young men, he stiU fights with us — fights 
but vanquishes not. Is that because we are strong, or because 
he who was found weak in the hands of persecutors is strong in 
us? He who resisted not his persecutors has made us strong; 
for he was crucified in weakness, but lives in the power of 
God.i4 

7. “I write unto you, children” — children, “because ye have 
known the Father,” “I write unto you, fathers”; and here he 
repeats, “because ye have known him who is from the begin- 
ning.” Remember that you are fathers: if you forget him who is 
from the beginning, you have lost your fatherhood. “I write 
unto you, young men”: once more, bear in mind your youth: 
fight, that you may overcome: overcome, that you may be 
crowned; be humble, lest you fall in the battle. “I write unto 
you, young men, because ye are strong, and the word of God 
abideth in you, and ye have overcome the evil one.” 

8. Brethren, all that is said here — ^that we have known that 
which is from the beginning, that we are strong, that we have 
known the Father — all this seems to commend Icnowledge; does 
it not also commend charity? If we have known, let us love; for 
knowledge without charity cannot save, “Knowledge puffeth 


n Ex. 3* 14. 
13 John 1:3. 

A.L.W. 18 


12 Ps. 110:3 (LXX and Vulg.). 
14 II Cor. 13:4. 



AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


274 

up, but charity edifieth,” if you would confess, but not love, 
you make yourselves like the demons: they confessed the Son of 
God, they said, “What have we to do with thee?” and they 
were driven back. Do you confess, and embrace. They feared 
for their iniquities: do you love the forgiver of your iniquities. 
But we cannot love God, if we love the world: if we love the 
world, it will separate us from the love of God which is charity. 
The apostle makes us ready, then, to have charity dwelling in 
us. Two loves there are, of the world and of God: if the love of 
the world dwells in us, the love of God can find no entrance. The 
love of the world must depart, the love of God come in to dwell: 
make room for the better love. Once you loved the world, now 
cease to love it: empty your heart of earthly love and you shall 
drink of the love divine: charity will begin its dwelling in you, 
and from charity nothing evil can proceed. Hear then the words 
of the apostle who now would cleanse you. He sees men’s hearts 
as a field, and in what condition? If he finds weeds, he roots 
them up; if he finds clean land, he plants — that tree which he 
would fain plant, which is charity. The weeds that he would root 
up are love of the world. Hear the rooter-up of weeds: “Love 
not the world, nor the things that are in the world. If a man love 
the world, the love of the Father is not in him.” 

9. You hear this. Brethren, let none say in his heart that this is 
not true. It is God’s word spoken by the Holy Spirit through his 
apostle, and nothing can be truer: “if a man love the world, the 
love of the Father is not in him.” Would you have the love of 
the Father, and be fellow-heir with the Son? Love not the 
world. Shut out the evil love of the world, that you may be 
filled with the love of God. You are a vessel that was already 
full: you must pour away what you have, that you may take in 
what you have not. We know that these our brethren have been 
born again of water and the Spirit, even as we were so many 
years ago. It is good for us not to love the world, lest there remain 
in us only sacraments for our condemnation, and not stays for our 
salvation. The stay of salvation is to have charity at the root, to 
have the virtue of godliness and not the form only. The form is 
good and holy; but it avails nothing apart from the root. The 
severed branch is cast into the fire. You should keep the form, 
but in union with the root; and there is no way to be firmly 
rooted, but by holding fast to charity, according to the words of 
the apostle Paul: “rooted and grounded in charity.” is 

13 I Cor. 8*1. i<s Matt. 8-29. 

17 Cf. Horn , I, 5. is Eph. 3:17. 



HOMILIES ON I JOHN 275 

10. “Because all that is in the world is the desire of the flesh, 
and the desire of the eyes, and the pretensions of this life” — 
three things, “which are not of the Father but of the world. And 
the world passeth away, and the desires thereof; but he that 
doeth the will of God abideth for ever, as he abideth for ever.” 

Why may I not love what God has made? Make your choice: 
either to love things temporal and pass away with time’s passing, 
or not to love the world, and to live for ever with God. The river 
of time sweeps us on; but there, like a tree growing by the nver, 
is our Lord Jesus Christ. He took flesh, died, rose again, as- 
cended into heaven. He willed to plant himself as it were beside 
the river of things temporal. If you are drifting down to the 
rapids, lay hold of the tree: if you are caught up in the world’s 
love, lay hold of Christ. He for your sake entered into time, that 
you might win eternity; for by his entering into time he did not 
cease himself to be eternal. 

11. Let us not love the world, nor the things that are in the 
world. For the things that are in the world are “the desire of 
the flesh and the desire of the eyes and the pretensions of this 
life.” The naming of these three forestalls objection. A man 
might say: “The things that are in the world are what God has 
made — ^heaven and earth, sea, sun, moon, stars, and aU the 
furnishings of the heavens. Why should I not love what God has 
made?” Let God’s Spirit indeed be in you to show you that all 
these things are good; but beware of loving things created and 
forsaking their Creator. You find them fair; but how much 
fairer is he that formed them! Think, my friends: you may learn 
by a parable, lest Satan get advantage of you, saying as he is 
wont: “Be happy in God’s creation: he made it only for your 
happiness!” So men’s wits are stolen, and they perish in forget- 
fulness of their Maker: they use the creature with lust instead 
of temperance, and the Creator is despised. Of such the apostle 
says: “They worshipped and served the creature rather than the 
Creator, who is blessed for ever.”i 9 God forbids you not to love 
them, but he will not have you seek your bhss in them: the end 
of your esteem for them should be the love of their Maker, Sup- 
pose, my brethren, a man should make for his betrothed a ring, 
and she should prefer the ring given her to the betrothed who 
made it for her, would not her heart be convicted of mfidehty 
in respect of the very gift of her betrothed, though what she 
loved were what he gave. Certainly let her love his gift; but if 
she should say “The ring is enough, I do not want to see his 

19 Rom. 1:25. 



276 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

face again,” what should we say of her? Should we not all abhor 
such fevolity, and charge her with the mind of an adulteress? 
"'Gold is more to you than a husband, a ring more than your 
betrothed: if it is in you to transfer your love from your be- 
trothed to the ring and not to want the sight of him, he will have 
given you a pledge not for security but for divorce.” Yet surely 
the pledge is given by the betrothed, just that in his pledge he 
himself may be loved. Even so, God has given you all these 
things: therefore, love him who made them. There is more that 
he would give you, even himself, their Maker. Though God has 
made these things, if you love them and are careless of their 
Creator — ^if you love the world, must not your love be set down 
for adulterous? 

12. “World” is the name not only for this fabric that God has 
made, of heaven, earth and sea, of things visible and invisible. 
We use the word “world” also for the dwellers in it, just as we 
do the word “house” both for the structure and its occupants. 
Sometimes we approve the house while we condemn the occu- 
pants. Now just as men may dwell in heaven by lifting up their 
hearts, though in the flesh they walk on earth, so all lovers of 
the world are dwelling in the world by their love, and thus may 
themselves be called the world. And in them there is nothing 
but these three — the desire of the flesh, the desire of the eyes, 
and the pretensions of this life. They desire the pleasures of 
food, drink and sex. But in such things there is a due limit. When 
you are told not to love them, it does not mean that you are for- 
bidden to eat or drink or beget children; but for the Creator’s 
sake there is a limit set, so that the love of all this does not make 
prisoner of you — ^lest your love of what you should possess for 
use become the love of final enjoyment. The test comes only 
when the choice between this and that is set before you: “Money 
or the right?” “I am without the wherewithal to live, the 
wherewithal to eat and drink.” But what if you can only gain 
that wrongfully? Were it not better to set your love on what you 
cannot lose, than to commit a wrong? You have eyes for the 
gain of money, not for the loss of faith. Here then, he tells us, is 
the desire of the flesh, the desire, that is, of what belongs to the 
flesh, food and sex and so forth. 

13. “And the desire of the eyes.” By this he means all that 
itch for marvels which I call curiosity. It has a very wide scope. 

20 For the distinction of “use” and “enjoyment,” cf De Tnn , X, 13, 17; 

and for detailed discussion, De Dtv. Qjmest. LXXXIII, 30, and De Docir. 

Christ,^ I, 4. 



HOMILIES ON I JOHN 277 

The public spectacle, the theatre, the devil’s mysteries, the arts 
of magic and sorcery, all pander to curiosity. But sometimes it 
may try the servants of God, making them wish to be wonder- 
workers, to try whether God will hear them by a miracle. That 
is curiosity, the desire of the eyes: it is not of the Father. If God 
has given you such power, use it: he has offered it for your use; 
but the lack of it will prevent no one from belonging to the 
Kingdom of God. When the apostles rejoiced because the devils 
were subject to them, what said the Lord to them? “Rejoice not 
in this : but rejoice, because your names are written in heaven.” 2 1 
He would have his apostles rejoice for the same cause as you too 
have for rejoicing. It will go hard with you, if your name is not 
written in heaven; but will it go hard if you have not raised the 
dead? if you have not walked upon the sea? if you have not cast 
out devils? If you have received the power to do such things, use 
it in humility and not in pride. For the Lord has said even of 
certain false prophets, that they should do signs and wonders. 
Therefore shun the “pretensions of this life.” The pretensions of 
this life are pride. Men desire to vaunt themselves upon their 
honourable positions: they think themselves great because of 
their wealth or powerful standing. 

14. Apart from these three things, you will find nothing that 
tempts human covetousness — nothing but desire of the flesh or 
desire of the eyes or pretensions of this life. By these three was 
the Lord tempted of the devil. 22 He was tempted by desire of 
the flesh, when it was said to him: “If thou art the Son of God, 
command these stones that they become bread” — ^when he was 
hungry from fasting. Remember how he repulsed the tempter, 
and taught his soldiers to fight: saying, “Man liveth not by 
bread alone, but by every word of God.” He was tempted again 
by desire of the eyes, for a miracle, when the devil said: “Cast 
thyself down, for it is written, He hath charged his angels to 
bear thee up, that thou strike not thy foot against a stone.” So 
did he resist the tempter; for if he had worked a miracle, he must 
have appeared either to have yielded or to have done it for 
“curiosity’s” sake. He did indeed work miracles when he would, 
as God, but for the sake of healing the sick. If at that time he had 
done so, it would have seemed as though his only purpose was 
to work a miracle. But, to avoid such misapprehension, observe 
how he answered; and if ever such temptation comes to you, 
do you answer as he did: “Get thee behind me, Satan; for it is 
written. Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God” — meaning 
21 Luke 10:20. 22 Matt. 4: i fF. 



278 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

"'if I do this, I shall be tempting God.” Our Lord spoke as he 
would have you speak. If die Enemy should whisper to you: 
“A poor sort of man, a poor sort of Christian must you be! Have 
you worked a single miracle, have the dead arisen at your 
prayer, have you healed the fever-stricken? Were there really 
anything in you, you would do some mighty work!” — answer 
him and say, “It is written. Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy 
God; I will not tempt God, as though I should belong to him if 
I wrought a miracle, but not otherwise. How then should he 
have said. Rejoice that your names are written in heaven?” 
And lastly, our Lord was tempted with the pretensions of this 
hfe: when the devil raised him up on the height, and said to 
him, “All these things will I give thee, if thou wilt fall down and 
worship me.” He would have tempted the King of ages with the 
exaltation of an earthly kingdom; but the Lord that made 
heaven and earth trod the tempter under foot. No wonder, in- 
deed, that the Lord should vanquish the devil; but his answer 
to the devil was to teach you your own: “It is written. Thou 
shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve.” 

Hold to the Lord’s answers, and you will be free from all 
lusting after the world: in that freedom, you will be enslaved 
neither by desire of the flesh nor by desire of the eyes nor by the 
pretensions of this life; and you will make room for the coming 
of charity, which is the love of God. If your heart is occupied by 
love of the world, the love of God will not be in it. Hold to the 
love of God, that you may stand fast for ever as God stands: for 
the being of every man is according to his love. Dost thou love 
the earth? To earth thou shalt turn. Dost thou love God? I 
would not dare to say, A god thou shalt be; yet we have the 
word of Scripture, “I have said. Ye are gods, and ye are all the 
sons of the Most High.” 23 If then you would be gods and sons 
of the most high, “love not the world, nor the things that are in 
the world. If any man loveth the world, the love of the Father 
(which is charity) is not in him. For all that is in the world is the 
desire of the flesh and the desire of the eyes and the pretensions 
of this life: which are not of the Father but of the world (that is, 
of men who love the world). And the world passeth away, and 
the desires thereof; but whosoever doeth the will of God, 
abideth for ever, even as God abideth for ever.” 

23 Ps. 82 * 6 . — ^Augustine is chary in use of the characteristically Greek 
idea of the “divmization” of the Christian by grace. 



THIRD HOMILY 
I John 2:18-27 

I. “Children, it is the last hour.” — ^In this text, he addresses us 
as children, that we may hasten to grow — because it is the last 
hour. Bodily age is not a matter of will; no one grows in the 
flesh when he wills, as no one is bom when he wills. But where 
birth lies in the will, so does growth. No man is born of water 
and the Spirit save willingly: therefore if he wills, he grows; if 
he wills, he diminishes. To grow is to go forward: to diminish is 
to go back. The man that knows he has been born must leam 
that he is a child, an infant: he must set his hps eagerly to his 
mother’s breast, and he will grow quickly. Now the mother is 
the Church, and her breasts are the two Testaments of Holy 
Scripture. From them let him suck the milk of all the mysteries 
enacted in time for our eternal salvation, that he may come 
nourished and strengthened to eat that food of which the Gospel 
tells: “In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with 
God, and the Word was God.” Our milk is Christ in his 
humility: our food is the same Chnst m his equahty with the 
Father. 1 

3. But, lest we be slow to go forward, let us pay heed: 
“Children, it is the last hour.” Go forward, run, and grow: it is 
the last hour. The last hour is long, but it is the last. It means, 
the last time; for in the last times shall come our Lord Jesus 
Christ. But some would say, “It cannot be the last time, the last 
hour: surely Antichrist must come first, and then the Day of 
Judgment.” Such thoughts were known to John, and to rouse 
men from the security of imagining that this is not the last hour 

1 Cf. De Tnn,^ Bk. XIII, in which “knowledge” of the historic Incarnation 
is set forth as the necessary preparation for the “wisdom” which is 
contemplation of the Eternal Word. 

279 



28 o AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

because Antichrist is yet to come, he tells them: “as ye have 
heard that Antichrist cometh, even now have there been many 
Antichrists.” In what hour but the last could there be many 
Antichrists? 

4. He goes on to explain of whom he is speaking. “Wherefore 
we know that it is the last hour”: we know, because there are 
many Antichrists. “They went out from us” — ^now we recog- 
nize them — “they went out from us,” so that we must lament 
our loss; yet there is comfort — “but they were not of us.” All 
heretics, all schismatics, have gone out from us, that is, from the 
Church; but they would not go out, if they were of us. Therefore, 
before their going out, they were not of us; and if that be so, 
there may be many within who have not gone out and yet are 
Antichrists. We make bold to say this, only to the end that 
none who is within becomes an Antichrist. John is about to 
describe and designate the Antichrist: we shall soon see who 
they are; and every one must question his own conscience 
whether he be such. Antichrist means one contrary to Christ: 
and what that means, you are to learn from the apostle’s account 
of it, and understand that none can go out but Antichrists, 
whereas those that are not contrary to Christ can by no means 
do so. For he that is not contrary to Christ, is set firm in his 
Body and reckoned a member; and members are never contrary 
to one another. The wholeness of the Body is constituted by all 
the members together, and for the concord of the members 
we have Paul’s word, that “if one member suffer, all the mem- 
bers suffer with it, and if one member is glorified, all the 
members rejoice with it.” ^ If that be true, the concord of the 
members must exclude the Antichrist. 

5. “They went out from us, but” — grieve not, for “they were 
not of us.” And the proof is, that “if they had been of us, they 
would have remained with us.” So, my friends, you are to see 
that many who are not of us may receive with us the sacraments, 
may receive with us baptism and all that the faithful know them- 
selves to receive — blessing, and Eucharist, and all the sacred 
mysteries — may receive with us the very communion of the 
altar, and yet they are not of us. That they are not of us, is 
proved in the hour of trial: when trial comes to them, hke a gust 
of wind, they are scattered abroad; for they were not grain but 
chaff. They will all be scattered, as we must never forget, on that 
day of judgment when threshing begins in the Lord’s floor. 
Beloved, you may be very sure of this: that any who have gone 

2 I Cor. 12.26. 



HOMILIES ON I JOHN l28l 

out and afterwards return are not Antichrists, not contrary to 
Christ. It is impossible for those who are not Antichrists to 
remain without; but it is of his own will that every man is 
either in Christ or against him. “They went out from us, but 
they were not of us; for if they had been of us, they would have 
remained with us; but that it should be made manifest that not 
aU were of us.’’ “That it should be made manifest,” because, 
while yet within, they are not of us; but this is not manifest 
till it is shown by their going out. “And ye have an anointing 
from the Holy One, that ye may be manifest to yourselves.” 
This spiritual anointing is the Holy Spirit himself of whom the 
visible anointing is the sacrament; John tells us that all who have 
this anointing of Christ’s can recognize evil and good: they 
have no need to be taught, for their anointing teaches them 
of itself. 

6. “I write unto you, not that ye have not known the truth, 
but because ye know it, and because no lie is of the truth.” Here 
we are given warning how to recognize the Antichrist. Christ 
is the truth: he said, I am the truth.^ But “no he is of the truth,” 
therefore none that lie are yet of Christ. It is not said that some 
lie is of the truth, and some he not of the truth. Take heed of the 
words as they stand, and shun all flattery of yourselves, all de- 
ceiving of yourselves. “jVb lie is of the truth.” — But let us see the 
manner of Antichrist’s lying: for there is more than one kind of 
lie. “Who is the liar, but he that denieth that Jesus is the 
Christ?” 

7. Ask the heretics, and you will find none that denies that 
Jesus is the Christ. My friends, there is a mystery here: give heed 
to what the Lord God shall put into our mind, and what I 
would make you understand. Here are men who have gone out 
from us and become Donatists: we ask them whether Jesus is the 
Christ, and they straightway confess that he is. If then he is Anti- 
christ who denies that Jesus is the Christ, neither can they give 
the name to us nor we to them; for both we and they confess the 
same. But if neither may call the other Antichrist, then neither 
have they gone out from us nor we from them. But if there has 
been no going out from us, we are in unity; and then whence 
come the two altars in this city? whence come divided houses 
and homes, the sharing of the marriage-bed and the division of 
Christ. Our text gives us warning and requires us to confess the 
truth. Either they have gone out from us, or we from them. But 
the latter is unthinkable: we have the testament of the Lord’s 

3 John 14:6. 



282 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

inheritance, we read the Psalm and find it said: '‘I will give the 
nations for thine inheritance, and the ends of the earth for thy 
possession/' 4 We hold Christ’s inheritance: they do not, for they 
will not have communion with the world, with the universal 
company of them that are redeemed by the Lord’s blood. We 
stand secure in the unity of the inheritance, and whoever re- 
fuses communion therewith has gone out from it. 

8 . If then they have gone out from us, they are Antichrists: 
and if Antichrists, then Hars; and if liars, then guilty of denial 
that Jesus is the Christ. We come back to our problem. Ask each 
one singly and they will confess that Jesus is the Christ. Let us 
then enquire who it is that denies; and let us consider not words, 
but deeds. Let the tongue keep silence awhile, and put your 
question to the hfe. If we can find assurance from Scripture that 
actions may deny as well as tongues, we can indeed point to 
many Antichrists who profess Christ with their mouth and de- 
part from him in their ways. And we have that assurance from 
the apostle Paul: speaking of such men, he says, “they profess 
to know God, but m works they deny him.” 5 There you have 
the Antichrist — every one that denies Christ by his works. 
There is no liar like the Antichrist who professes with his 
mouth that Jesus is the Christ, and denies it by his actions. He is 
a liar, because he says one thing and does another. 

9 . But it follows from this, my brethren, that if deeds are 
what we must question, we shall find not only many Anti- 
christs who have gone out from us, but many still concealed 
who have not gone out at all. If there are within the Church 
perjurers, defrauders, workers in magic, dabblers in divination, 
adulterers, drunkards, usurers, slave-dealers, and such — ^whom 
we cannot enumerate — all these things are contrary to the 
teaching of Christ and the word of God; for the Word of God 
is Christ, and all that is contrary to God’s Word is in Anti- 
christ, that is, contrary to Christ. The openness of their resis- 
tance to Christ can easily be shown. For some evil action that 
they do, they incur rebuke; and not daring to slander Christ 
they slander his ministers from whom the rebuke comes. If you 
show them that you are speaking Christ’s words and not your 
own, they do their best to convict you of using words that are 
your own and not Christ’s; but if it be too plain that your words 
are Christ’s words, they will even set upon Christ and begin to 
find fault with him, “How,” they say, “and why has he made us 

4 Ps 28, for the argument, cf. Horn,, I, 8 , 13. 

5 Tit 1. 16. 



HOMILIES ON I JOHN 283 

such as we are?^’ Is not that the daily excuse of men convicted 
of their own ill-doing? Perverted by crookedness of will, they 
accuse the craftsman; and the heavenly craftsman, our Maker 
and our Re-maker, cries aloud to them: ‘‘But what was it that I 
made in you? A man, not avarice; a man, not robbery; a man, 
not adultery!” Do you put right what you have made, that the 
making of God in you may be preserved! If you will not, if you 
love and cling to your sins, you are contrary to Christ: whether 
within or without, you are Antichrist; whether within or with- 
out you are chaff and not grain — ^not without, only because you 
have not yet faced the wind. 

10. Brethren, the point is clear. Let no man say, I worship 
not Christ but God his Father. ‘‘Every one that denieth the Son, 
hath neither the Son nor the Father; and he that confesseth the 
Son hath both the Son and the Father.” He speaks to you that 
are good grain; but let them that were chaff give heed and be 
changed into grain. Let each one consult his own conscience, 
and if he is a lover of the world, let him change: let him become 
Christ’s lover, not Christ’s enemy. Tell a man that he is Anti- 
christ, and he gets angry and thinks an outrage done him: 
maybe he threatens a libel action, if his adversary calls him by 
that name. Christ says to him: “Be patient. If the charge is false, 
you may rejoice with me, for I too am falsely charged by Anti- 
christs. But if it is true, summon your conscience; and if you 
fear the name, fear yet more the deserving of it.” 

11. “Let that therefore abide in you, which yourselves have 

heard from the beginning. If that which ye have heard from 
the beginning shall abide in you, ye also shall abide in the 
Father and the Son. This is the promise that he hath promised 
us.” Perhaps you would ask of the reward, and say: “Suppose I 
guard in myself obediently what I have heard from the begin- 
ning: for the sake of that abiding I endure perils, toils and trials. 
What is my profit, my reward? In this life I see that I must 
labour under trials: what then will God give me hereafter? 
Here I see there can be no rest: mortality weighs upon the soul, 
and the corruptible body presses me downwards but I bear 
it all, that what I have heard from the beginning may abide in 
me, and that I may say to my God, “Because of the words of 
thy hps I have kept to hard ways.” But for what reward?” 
Hear, and faint not: or if you were fainting under your labours, 
let the promised reward make you strong. No worker in the 
vineyard will dismiss from his mind what he is to receive: if he 
6 Wisdom 9.15. 7 Ps 17,4. 



284 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

should forget his reward, his hands will fail him. The recollec- 
tion of the promised reward gives perseverance in the work — 
even when the promiser is a man that can deceive. In the field 
of God, how much greater should be your strength, when the 
promise has come from the truth that can neither die nor give 
place to another, nor deceive him who has had its promise! 
What then is the promise? — ^let us look to that. Is it gold — so 
much loved by men in this world — or silver? Is it possessions, 
for which men pour out the gold they love so much — pleasant 
estates, large houses, numerous servants, herds of cattle? That 
is not the kind of reward which he encourages us to expect, that 
we may hold fast in our labour. The reward is named — ^what? 
Eternal life. You hear, and you cry out with joy.® Set your love 
then on that which you have heard, and look for enfranchise- 
ment from your labours into the repose of eternal life. Eternal 
fife — that is what God proimses; and what he threatens is eternal 
fire. To those set on his right hand he says, “Come, ye blessed 
of my father, receive the kingdom prepared for you from the 
beginning of the world”; and to those on his left, “Depart into 
eternal fire, prepared for the devil and his angels.” ^ If you can- 
not yet desire the one, at least fear the other. 

12. Remember, then, my brethren, that eternal life is 
Christ’s promise. “This is the promise which he hath promised 
to us, even eternal life. These things have I written to you con- 
cerning them that lead you astray.” Let none lead you astray 
unto death: set your heart upon the promise of eternal life. 
Whatever the world may promise, it promises to one who may 
die to-morrow; and then how will you face him that abideth 
for ever? You say, I am driven to do wrong by the threatenings 
of powerful persons. What do such threats amount to? Prison, 
fetters, brandings, the rack, the beasts? Yes, but not eternal fire. 
Tremble at the threatenings of the Almighty, and desire the 
promises of the Almighty: then the whole world’s terrors will be 
of as little account as its promises. 

“These things have I written to you concerning them that 
lead you astray; that ye may know that ye have an anointing, 
and that the anointing which we have received from him may 
abide in you.” The anointing has its outward sign or sacra- 
ment: the power of it is invisible. The unseen anointing is the 
Holy Spirit: the unseen anointing is the charity which is the 
living root of everyone in whom it is found, the root that cannot 

* The congregation has applauded. Cf Horn. VII. 10. 

9 Matt 25.34,41. 



HOMILIES ON 1 JOHN 385 

wither, let the sun be never so hot; for every plant that is well- 
rooted is nourished and not withered by the sun’s heat. 

13. “And ye have no need that any man should teach you; 
because his anointing teacheth you concerning all things.” What 
then are we about, my brethren, in offering you teaching? If 
his anointing teaches you all things, our labour is to no purpose: 
we may spare our breath and leave you to his anointing, that it- 
self may teach you. Yet this question that I have just asked myself 
may be asked even of the apostle. Let John deign to hear it put 
to him by a lesser man, who asks: “Had they to whom thou didst 
speak an anointing? Surely; for thou didst say, his anointing 
teacheth you concerning all things. Why then write such an 
Epistle? What teaching, what instruction, what edification wast 
thou giving by it?” You see here, my brethren, a great mystery. 
The sound of our words strikes the ear, but the Master is 
within. 10 You must not think that anyone learns from a man. 
The noise of our voice can be no more than a prompting; if there 
be no teacher within, that noise of ours is useless. Brethren, do 
you need that I should explain further? Have you not aU heard 
this sermon? Yet how many will leave this place untaught' For 
my part, I have spoken to all; but those who hear not the inward 
speech of that same anointing, those whom the Holy Spirit 
teaches not inwardly, go home untaught. Outward teachings 
are but a kind of helps and promptings: the teacher of hearts 
has his chair in heaven. Therefore he says himself in the gospel: 
“Call no man your master upon earth; for one is your master, 
even Christ.” “ Let him then speak to you within, when no man 
is there: indeed there may be no man in your heart, though a 
man be at your side. But it is not well that there be none in your 
heart: let Chnst be in your heart, let his anointing be there, lest 
your heart be left alone to thirst, with no water-spring to refresh 
it. He that teaches is the inward Master, Christ and his inspira- 
tion. Where that inspiration and that anointing are lacking, the 
noise of words from without is vain. Brethren, these words that 
we speak to you from without are like the husbandman to the 
tree: his is an outward working, he gives water and careful til- 
lage. But whatever his outward application, it is not he that forms 
the fruit, that clothes the bare branches with the shade of leaves, 
that acts inwardly in any such manner. Who it is, you may learn 
from the apostolic husbandman, and see what we are, and listen 

1® Augustine always teaches that we can recognize truth only through the 
presence within us of the Magtster interior who is Christ, 
u Matt. 23:8 f. 



a86 AUGUSTINE: later works 

to the inward Master. “I planted, Apollos watered, but God 
gave the increase; for neither he that planteth is anything, nor 
he that watereth, but God who giveth the increase.” 12 xhis 
then is our word to you: whether we plant or water through our 
speaking, we are nothing. AH is of him who gives his increase, 
even God; that is, his anointing that teacheth you concerning 
all things. 

«I Cor. 3:6 f. 



FOURTH HOMILY 
I John 2:27-3:8 

I. Our reading of yesterday, my brethren, ended as you will 
remember with the words: ‘‘Ye have no need that any man 
should teach you: the anointing itself teacheth you concerning 
all things.’’ 

2. It goes on: “And it is true” — this same anointing: that is, 
the Spirit of the Lord, the teacher of men, cannot lie. “It is no 
liar. Even as it hath taught you, so abide in it. And now, httle 
children, abide in him; that when he shall be manifested, we 
may have confidence in his sight, that we may not be put to 
shame by him at his coming.” You see, my brethren: we believe 
in Jesus whom we have not seen, and we await his coming. All 
who await him in faith will rejoice when he comes: those that 
are without faith will be ashamed when what they see not now 
has come. And their confounding will not be for a moment, and 
then pass, as is the way with men who are confounded when de- 
tected in some fault, and meet the tauntings of other men. This 
confounding will set the confounded upon the left hand where 
they will hear their sentence: “Depart ye into eternal fire, which 
is prepared for the devil and his angels.” ^ Let us then abide 
in his words, that we be not put to shame when he comes. 

3. “If ye know that he is righteous, know also that every one 
that doeth righteousness is born of him.” Perfect righteousness 
is not yet in any but the angels: in us it has only its beginning, 
by faith, after the Spirit. You heard in the reading of the Psalm: 
“jBegin unto the Lord with confession.” 2 ''Begin” — and the 
beginning of our righteousness is the confession of sins. If you 

1 Matt 25*41. 

2 Ps. 147.7. The Latin versions of the Psalms regularly use confiteri and 
confessto for ‘‘thanksgiving.” Augustine’s own Confessions were meant to be 
thankgivings as much as “confessions” of his sins. 

287 



AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


288 

have begun to make no defence of your sin, you have already 
taken the first step in righteousness. It will be made perfect in 
you, when the doing of nothing else shall delight you, when 
death shall be swallowed up in victory. Then, when^ no evil 
desire shall stir within you, when there shall be no striving with 
flesh and blood, when shall come the crown of victory, the 
triumph over the adversary — then shall righteousness be per- 
fect. Here as yet we are engaged in fight: as fighters we stand 
in the arena, strokes are given and received: the issue of the 
battle IS awaited. But victory goes to him who thinks not to deal 
his strokes in his own arm’s strength but by the encouragement 
of God. In the fight against us, the devil stands alone: if we 
stand with God, we overcome the devil. For to fight alone 
against the devil is to court defeat: he is a practised enemy that 
has won many a trophy. And so hear what follows in our 
Epistle: it tells us to overcome the devil, but not of ourselves. 
'Tf ye know that he is righteous, know also that every one that 
doeth righteousness is born of him.” Born of God, born of 
Christ; these words, “is born of him,” are for our encourage- 
ment. Because we are born of him, our perfecting is already sure. 

4. “Behold, what manner of love the Father hath given unto 
us, that we should be called, and be, the sons of God.” To be 
called and not to be, to have the name and not the reality, 
avails no one. There are many called physicians who cannot 
cure: there are many called watchers that sleep all night. So 
are there many called Christians that are not found such in fact; 
because what they are called they are not in life, in manners, in 
faith, in hope, in charity. But what is it, brethren, that these 
words tell you? — “Behold what manner of love theTather hath 
given unto us, that we should be called, and be, the sons of God. 
For this cause the world knoweth us not, because it hath not 
known him: so the world knoweth not us.” There is a whole 
world of Christians, and a whole world of ungodly; for ungodly 
and godly are both spread through all the world, and we can see 
that the first know not the second, because they revile men of 
good life. Consider, whether there be not such among your- 
selves. Any one of you that lives a godly life, thinks little of 
worldly matters, wiU not frequent the public shows, will not 
make festivals an excuse for drinking, or — ^what is worse — seek 
“the protection of holy days for uncleanness is not one that 

3 Augustine had hard work to purge the observance of Christian holy days 
from the customs associated with pagan religious festivals. See his Ep, 
XXIX, to Alypius, and cf. Serm, 31 1, 352. 



HOMILIES ON I JOHN 289 

abstains from such things reviled by them that do them? and 
would he be so reviled if he were recognized? He is not recog- 
nized, because the world does not recognize him. By the world, 
as I have often said and need not weary you by repeating, is 
meant the dwellers in the world, as we use the word “house” 
for its inhabitants. So when you find “world” used in a bad 
sense, you are to understand only the world’s lovers: those who 
dwell in the world by their love of it, and earn their name from 
that in which they dwell. “For this cause the world knoweth us 
not, because it knew not him.” The Lord Jesus Christ himself 
walked on earth, God was in flesh, his strength hidden in weak- 
ness. And why was he not known? Because he convicted men of 
all their sins. They could not recognize God because they de- 
lighted in the pleasures of sin: the desires kindled by their fever 
made them do violence to the physician. 

5 . What then of ourselves? Here already we are “born of 
him”; but because our hfe is in hope, there is more to be said. 
“Beloved, now are we the sons of God.” Now? and what then 
do we wait for, if we are already sons of God? “And it is not yet 
manifest what we shall be.” What shall we be, more than sons 
of God? Listen! “We know that when he shall have appeared, 
we shall be hke him; for we shall see him as he is.” Set your 
minds upon this: it is a great matter. Ponder that word “is”: 
do you know its meaning? That which is said to “be,” and not 
only said to be, but truly “is,” is changeless: it abides for ever, 
it knows no change, no element of decay, it neither advances, 
for it is perfect, nor goes back, for it is eternal. And what is it? 
“In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, 
and the Word was God.” ^ What is that Word? He “who being 
in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with 
God.” 5 The Christ who is thus in the form of God, the Word of 
God, one with the Father, equal to the Father, evil men cannot 
see. The Word as made flesh, the wicked also will be able to 
see; for he will come to judge even as he came to be judged. 
They will see the form of the servant, not the form of God; be- 
cause they are godless, and the Lord himself says, “Blessed are 
the pure in heart, for they shall see God.” ^ Brethren, what we 
are to see is a vision, that neither eye hath seen nor ear hath 
heard nor hath come up into the heart of man'^ — a vision sur- 
passing all earthly beauties, of gold or silver, of woods or fields. 


4 John 1:1. 

« Matt 5*8. 


5 Phil. 2:6. 

7 I Cor. 2:9. 



ago AUGUSTINE: later works 

the beauty of sea and sky, of sun, moon, and stars, the beauty 
of angek: eyrelling all these things, for all have their beauty 
from him. 

6. And when we see this, what shall we be? what is the 
promise given us? “We shall be like him; for we shall see him as 
he is.” The spoken word has done all it could: the rest must be 
pondered in the heart. In comparison of him who “is,” what 
could John say, and what can be said by us whose desert is so 
far below his? We must go back to the anointing of which he has 
spoken, that anointing which teaches inwardly what passes 
utterance; and since as yet you cannot see, your work must lie 
in longing. The whole life of the good Christian is a holy longing. 
What you long for, as yet you do not see ; but longing makes in you 
the room that shall be filled, when that which you are to see shall 
come. When you would fill a purse, knowing how large a pre- 
sent it is to hold, you stretch wide its cloth or leather: knowing 
how much you are to put in it, and seeing that the purse is 
small, you extend it to make more room. So by withholding the 
vision God extends the longing, through longing he makes the 
soul extend, by extending it he makes room in it. So, brethren, 
let us long, because we are to be filled. See how Paul stretches 
out his purse so that it may have room for that which is to come. 
“Not that I have already received,” he says, “or already am 
made perfect. Brethren, I count not myself to have appre- 
hended.” * We ask. What then is your business in this life, if you 
have not yet apprehended? He answers: “One thing: forgetting 
the things that are behind, and stretching out to the things that 
are before, according to my purpose I follow aifter the prize of 
the upward calling.” He speaks of himself as stretching out, 
and following according to his purpose: he felt himself too small 
to take in that which eye hath not seen nor ear heard, nor hath 
come up into the heart of man. That is our life, to be trained by 
longing; and our training through the holy longing advances in 
the measure that our longings are severed from the love of this 
world. I said once before: Empty out that vessel that is to be 
filled; you are to be filled with good, pour away the evil. God 
would fin you, shall we say, with honey: where can you put it, 
if you are fuE of vinegar? Wliat your vessel held must be poured 
away, and the vessel cleansed: cleansed, were it with toil and 
chafing, so that it be fit to hold — did we say honey? Gold? Wine? 
Speak as we may of that which cannot be spoken, call it what 


8 Phil. 3:i3f. 



HOMILIES ON I JOHN 201 

we will, its proper name is — God. Even in this word, “God,” what 
have we said? Is that single syllable the whole of that for which 
we wait? Nothing that we have power to name is high enough. 
Let us stretch ourselves out towards him, that when he comes 
he may fill us full. For “we shall be like ium; because we shall 
see him as he is.” 

7. “And every one that hath this hope in him” ... He sets 
us, you see, in hope. Notice the agreement of Paul with his 
fellow-apostle: “By hope are we saved; but hope that is seen is 
not hope, for what a man sees, why should he hope for? If we 
hope for that which we see not, we wait for it in patience.” » 
Patience itself trains up the longing. Wait, for he waits: walk on 
steadfastly, that you may reach the end: he will not leave that 
place towards which you are moving. Listen again: “And every 
one that hath this hope in him, punfieth himself, even as he is 
pure.” Notice that these words, “purifieth himself,” preserve 
our freedom of choice.^® None but God can purify us, but God 
purifies you not against your will. You purify yourself in uniting 
your will to God. You purify yourself, not by yourself but by 
him who comes to dwell within you. Yet because there is here 
an act of your own will, to you too there is something assigned; 
and it is assigned to you that you may say with the psalmist, 
“Be thou my helper, forsake me not.”ii Thus to ask for help 
means that you do something; for if you do nothing, how can he 
help you? 

8. “Every one that committeth sin, committeth wickedness.” 
You cannot distinguish sin and wickedness; you caimot say, I 
am a sinful man, but I am not wicked. For “sin is wickedness.” 
How then shall we deal with our sins and wickednesses? Let us 
hear what John says: “And ye know that he hath been mani- 
fested to take away sin; and in him is no sin.” He in whom there 
is no sin has come to take away sin. Were there sin in him, it 
must needs have been taken away from him — ^not by him. 
“Every one that abideth in him, sinneth not” : that is, in so far 
as a man abides in him, he does not sin. “Everyone that sinneth, 
hath not seen him nor known him.” That seems very difficult; 
yet it is not strange. We have not seen him, but we are one day 
to see him: we have not known him, but one day we shall: we 

® Rom. 8:24 f. 

10 One of the few echoes in the Homilies of the Pelagian controversy: in his 

preaching Augustine always insists on the part of the will in right action 

and the reality of free choice. » 

11 Ps. 27:9. 



AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


292 

believe in him whom we have not known. May we say that we 
have known him by faith, but not as yet by sight? Surely, in faith 
we have both seen and known; for if faith does not yet see, why 
are the faithful called the “enlightened”? There is one en- 
lightenment of faith, another of sight. In our present pilgrimage 
we walk by faith, not by sight 1 3 ; so that our righteousness ako 
IS by faith and not by sight. When the time of sight has come, 
our righteousness wiU be perfect; meantime we may not let go 
of the righteousness which is of faith, for “the just lives by faith,” 
as the apostle says.i^ "'^Everyone that abideth in him, sinneth 
not”; for “every one that sinneth hath not seen him, nor known 
him.” The man that sins, does not believe: if he believe, he does 
not sin, so far as he belongs to the faith of Christ. 

9. “Little children, let no man deceive you. He that doeth 
righteousness is righteous, even as he, Christ, is righteous.” We 
must not suppose, because it is said that we are righteous, “even 
as he,” that we are on an equality with God. You must take the 
sense of this word “as.” A httle back, we read: “purifieth him- 
self even as he is pure”; but none would dare to say that our 
purity is equal to the purity of God, or our righteousness to his. 
“Even as” does not always imply equality. Consider, for ex- 
ample, the difference between a man’s face and its image in a 
mirror. There is a face in the image and a face in the body, but 
the image exists as a likeness, the body as a reality. Yet we say 
that there are eyes and ears here, even as there. There is disparity 
in the object; but what “even as” implies is likeness. So there is 
an image of God even in ourselves, but not that image which is 
in the Son as the Father’s equal. Yet if we according to our 
capacity were not “even as” he, there would be no ground for 
calling us “like” him. Thus he purifies us even as he is pure; but 
his purity is of eternity, ours of faith. We are righteous even as 
he is righteous; but he is righteous in changeless everlastingness, 
we by believing in him whom we see not, in order that at last we 
may see. Even when our righteousness has been perfected, when 
we have been made equal to the angels, it will still not be the 
equal of his righteousness. How far then must it fall short of him 
now, if not even then will it be equal! 

10. “He that doeth sin is of the devil; for the devil sinneth 
from the beginning.” “Is of the devil” means, as you know, that 
he imitates the devil. The devil has made no one, begotten or 

12 '‘Enlightenment” was a term very early in use for Christian baptism. 

13 II Cor. 5:7. 

14 Rom. 1.17. 



HOMILIES ON I JOHN 293 

created none. But anyone who imitates the devil, as though bom 
of him, becomes the devil’s son by imitation though not by a 
true birth. You are a son of Abraham, but Abraham did not 
beget you; the Jews that were sons of Abraham became sons of 
the devil 15 because they imitated not the faith of Abraham, 
though they were born of his flesh. So, if those that had their 
birth of him were disinherited because they failed to imitate 
him, you, though not so born, are made his son, and his son you 
shall be, by imitation. In the same way, if you imitate the devil 
in his pride and impiety against God, you will be his son — ^by 
imitation, not by creation or begetting. 

11. “Unto this end the Son of God was manifested.” Ah, my 
brethren, all sinners are bom of the devil, inasmuch as they are 
sinners. Adam was made by God: but when he consented to the 
devil, he was bom of the devil; and all that he has begotten are 
as he was. With concupiscence itself we were born, and our birth 
comes of that condemnation, before we add to it debts of our 
own. If we are bom with no sin, there is no reason for hastening 
with our infant children to baptism for their absolution. There 
are two births for your understanding, my brothers, of Adam 
and of Christ: two men, but of them one man is man, the other 
man is God. Through the man that is man we are sinners : through 
the Man that is God we are justified. One birth has cast us down 
to death; the other has raised us up to life. One draws sin along 
with it, the other delivers from sin. For to this end came 
Christ as man, that he might do away with the sins of man. “To 
this end the Son of God was manifested, that he might destroy 
the works of the devil.” 

12. For the rest, my beloved, I must not overburden you to- 
day. There is a question, hard for us to answer, that arises from 
our speaking of ourselves as sinners. If a man says that he is 
without sin, he is a liar. You will remember the earlier words of 
this very epistle of John: “If we say that we have no sin, we 
deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us.” Yet m this later 
chapter you are told that “whosoever is born of God sinneth 
not ... he that doeth sin, hath not seen him nor known him 
. . . everyone that doeth sin, is of the devil.” Sin is not of 
God. 

Once again we are put in fear. How can we be bom of God, 
and confess ourselves sinners? To say that we are not bom of God 
would be to take all meaning from the sacraments applied to 

15 John 8:44 

16 Stock defence of the doctrine of original sin. 



294 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

infants. Yet John has said that “whosoever is bom of God, sin- 
neth not”; and the same John again has told us that “if we say 
that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves and the truth is not in 
us.” It is a serious and difficult question, and I would have your 
minds set upon finding its answer. To-morrow, in the Lord’s 
name, we will discourse of it as he shall enable us. 



FIFTH HOMILY 
I John 3:9-18 

I . I ask to-day for your closest attention, since we have no light 
matter for our considering. Indeed the interest with which you 
listened to yesterday’s sermon assures me that it will be even 
keener to-day. For the question to be raised is a very difficult 
one. We are asking what is meant by this text in our epistle: 
®^He that is born of God sinneth not” — ^in view of that earlier 
saying in the same epistle: ‘Tf we say that we have no sin, we 
deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us.” 

2. Now give your minds to these words. I want you to face the 
difficulty, so that your earnest attention may be a prayer on my 
behalf as well as yours, and God may grant us enlargement and 
open the way out: that none may find occasion of falling away 
in his word, the word that is neither preached nor written but 
for healing and salvation. 

‘^Every one that is born of God committeth no sin, because 
his seed remaineth in him; and he cannot sin, because he is born 
of God.” This is put very strongly. But maybe the words “sin- 
neth not” refer, not to any sin, but to some particular sin. Then 
by the saying, “He that is born of God sinneth not,” we may 
understand some special kind of sin, which a man that is born 
of God cannot commit — a sin of such a kind that its commission 
binds all other sms upon us, whereas if it be not committed the 
others may be absolved. What is that sin? Transgression of the 
commandment. And what commandment? “A new command- 
ment give I unto you, that ye love one another.” 1 Consider, 
This commandment of Christ has the name of love; and through 
that love are sins absolved. If it be not kept, not only is the sin 
grave but it is the root of all sins. 

1 John 13:34, 

295 



AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


296 

3. Consider this, my brethren. The suggestion we have made 
is one that may give the key to our problem when rightly under- 
stood. There is a sin that cannot be committed by him who is 
born of God. If that sin be not committed, others are absolved: 
if it be committed, others are bound fast. And this sin is the 
transgression of Christ’s command, the new covenant: ‘‘'A new 
commandment give I unto you, that ye love one another.” The 
man that acts contrary to charity, contrary to brotherly love, 
may not dare to boast that he is born of God. But for him who is 
established in brotherly love, there are certain sins that he can- 
not commit, above all the hating of a brother. And as for aU 
other sins, of which it is said that “if we say that we have no sin 
we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us” — ^for them he 
may take confidence from another text of Scripture: “Charity 
covereth the multitude of sins.” ^ 

4. Charity, then, is the theme of our exhortation, as it is the 
theme of this epistle. The Lord after his resurrection put no 
other question to Peter but “Lovest thou me?” ^ Once was not 
enough: a second time he asked the same, a third time the same. 
And though at the third questioning Peter was distressed, as 
though the Lord did not believe him, as one ignorant of what 
was passing in his heart; yet the question was asked once, twice, 
and thrice. Fear had three times denied, love three times con- 
fessed. Peter loves his Lord; and what shall he offer him? His 
own trouble had found utterance in those words of the Psalm: 
“What shall I return unto the Lord for all that he hath returned 
to me?” 4 For the psalmist’s mind was set upon the great things 
that God had done for him: he sought for what he might do in 
return, and could not find it. For there is nothing that one would 
return which one has not received from him for the return of it. 
And so we see that what he found to return was what he had 
received from God. “I will receive the cup of salvation, and call 
upon the name of the Lord.” None had given him that saving 
cup but he to whom he would make the return. But to receive 
the saving cup, and to call upon the name of the Lord, is to be 
filled full with charity — so full that not only will you not hate 
your brother, but you will be ready to die for him. That is the 
perfection of charity — to be ready to die for your brother; and 
this our Lord displayed in himself, by dying for all, and praying 
for those by whom he was crucified, with the words: “Father, 
forgive them; for they know not what they do.”^ But if he were 

2 I Peter 4*8. 3 John 21: 15 ff. 

4 Ps 1 16. 12 f. 5 Luke 23-34. 



HOMILIES ON I JOHN 297 

the only one so to act, he had been no teacher, as having no dis- 
ciples. Disciples there were who followed him and did the same. 
As Stephen was stoned, he fell upon his knee and prayed: ‘‘Lord, 
lay not this sin to their charge.'’^ He showed his love for his 
murderers, in that he died for them. So we find Paul saying, “I 
would myself be spent in behalf of your souls” 7; for among 
those souls were some for whom Stephen prayed when he was 
dying at their hands. 

That is the perfection of charity. Charity is perfect in him 
whom it makes ready to die for his brethren; but it is never per- 
fect as soon as it is born. It is born that it may be perfected. 
Born, it is nourished: nourished, it is strengthened: strengthened, 
it is made perfect. And when it has reached perfection, how does 
it speak? “To me to live is Christ, and to die is gain. My desire 
was to be set free and to be with Christ; for that is by far the 
best. But to abide in the flesh is needful for your sake.”^ 
He was willing to live for their sakes, for whom he was ready 
to die. 

5 . To teach us that this is the perfect charity, which he that 
is born of God cannot violate or sin against, the Lord says to 
Peter: “Peter, lovest thou me?” And Peter answers, “I love 
thee.” What return could Peter make to him that loved him? 
This: “Feed my sheep.” That is, “Do for thy brethren what I 
have done for thee. I have redeemed all by my blood. Do not 
shrink from dying for the confession of the truth, that others 
may follow your example.” 

6 . But this, my brothers, as I have said, is perfect charity, 
possessed by him that is born of God. Think, my dear people, 
and understand what I am saying. The person that is baptized 
has received the sacrament of birth. He possesses the sacrament 
— a sacrament great, divine, holy, unspeakable. Consider its 
purport: to make a new man through die remission of all his 
sins. Yet he must look well into his heart and see whether that 
which has been done in his body is made perfect there. Let him 
see whether he has charity, and then say, “I am born of God.” 
If he has not charity, the Master’s mark is on him, but he is a 
deserter straying from the ranks. Let him have charity, or else 
let him not say that he is born of God. He may say, “But I have 
the mystery of the sacrament.” The apostle will answer him: 
“If I know all mysteries, and have all faith, so as to remove 
mountains, and have not charity, I am nothing,” ® 

^ Acts 7*60. II Cor. 12:15. 

8 Phil 1:21 ff. Cor 13.2. 



AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


298 

7. You will remember that when we were beginning the 
reading of this Epistle I asked you to bear in mind that charity is 
what above all else it enjoins upon us. The writer may appear 
to pass from one subject to another, but to this always he re- 
turns: he means all that he says to be brought into relation with 
charity. So let us see whether he does so here. Listen: ^'Every 
man that is bom of God, doth not commit sin.” If we take this 
to mean any sin, it will conflict with that other saying, ‘Tf we 
say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves and the truth is 
not in us.” And so we ask. What sin? and look for some pointing 
from the writer himself; lest I may have been over-hasty in sug- 
gesting that this sin is the violation of charity, because of his say- 
ing above: “He that hateth his brother is in darkness, and walk- 
eth in darkness, and knoweth not whither he goeth, because 
the darkness hath blinded his eyes.” But perhaps in the words 
which follow here we shall find express mention of charity. You 
will see that indeed the turning of the sentence leads us to that 
very conclusion. “Every one that is born of God, sinneth not, 
because his seed abideth in him.” (The seed of God is God’s 
word: as the apostle puts it: “I have begotten you through the 
gospel.” 10) “And he cannot sin, because he is born of God.” 
We look now to be told wherein he cannot sin. “In this are mani- 
fested the children of God and the children of the devil. Every- 
one that is not righteous, is not of God; and he that loveth not 
his brother.” 

He that loveth not his brother: the reference of these last words is 
clear. Love is the only final distinction between the sons of God 
and the sons of the devil. All may sign themselves with the sign 
of Christ’s cross: all may answer Amen, and sing Alleluia: all 
may be baptized, all may come to church and line the walls of 
our places of meeting. But there is nothing to distinguish the 
sons of God from the sons of the devil, save charity. They that 
have charity, are born of God: they that have not charity are 
not. There is the great token, the great dividing mark. Have 
what else you will; if this one thing you have not, all is to no 
purpose. If you lack all the rest, have this, and you have ful- 
filled the law. “For he that loveth another,” says the apostle, 
“hath fulfilled the law”; and “charity is the fulness of the law.” 
This, I would say, is the pearl which the merchantman in the 
Gospel went seeking: who found one pearl, and sold all that he 
had, and bought it. 12 Charity is that precious pearl, without 

10 I Cor. 4: 15. 11 Rom. 13:8, 10. 

12 Matt. 13:46. 



HOMILIES ON I JOHN 209 

which all that you have profits you nothing, and which suffices 
you if you have nothing else. Now your vision is by faith, then 
it will be by sight; and if we love while we do not see, with what 
ardour shall we embrace when we have seen! But how are our 
hearts to be trained? Through love of the brethren. You may 
say, “I have never seen God”; you cannot say, “I have never 
seen a man.” Love your brother; in loving the brother whom 
you see, you will see God at the same time. For you will see 
charity itself, and there within is Gk)d dwelling. 

8. “He that is not righteous, is not of God; and he that loveth 
not his brother. For this is the message” — ^note how proof is 
given! — “this is the message that we have heard from the begin- 
ning, that we should love one another.” The writer points 
clearly to his authority: whoever transgresses that command- 
ment, is involved in that abominable sin into which they must 
fall who are not born of God. “Not as Cain, who was of the evil 
one, and slew his brother; and wherefore slew he him? Because 
his works were evil, and his brother’s righteous.” Thus where 
envy is, there cannot be brotherly love. Consider this, my 
people. Envy and love exclude one another. In the envious is 
the devil’s sin; for it was by envy that the devil cast man down: 
he fell, and envied him that stood upright. He sought to cast 
down, not that he himself might stand, but that he might not 
be alone in his fall. Keep in your minds what the apostle’s com- 
ment teaches, that in charity there can be no envying. You have 
the express saying, in the praise of charity: “Charity envieth 
not.” 13 There was no charity in Cain, and had there not been 
charity in Abel, God would not have accepted his sacrifice. 
When both brought their offering, the one from the fruits of the 
earth, and the other from the young of sheep, it is not to be 
thought that God cared not for the fruits of the earth and loved 
the lambs. God looked not at that which was in their hands, 
but saw what was in their heart; and seeing the one offer in 
charity, had respect unto his sacrifice: seeing the other offer in 
envy, from his sacrifiice turned away his eyes. The “good works” 
of Abel mean nothing but charity; the “evil works” of Cain 
mean nothing but hatred of a brother. More than hating his 
brother, he envied his good works; and because he would not 
follow his example, he resolved to slay him. Herein he showed 
himself a son of the devil, as Abel showed himself a righteous 
man of God. Herein, therefore, my brethren, is the proving of 
men. We are to observe not what men say, but their deeds and 

13 I Cor. 13.4. 



300 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

their heart. A man that will not do his brethren good, shows 
what he has in him: by temptation men are tested. 

9. “Marvel not, my brethren, if the world hateth us.” I 
should not need to keep teUing you what “the world” means. 
It is not heaven or earth, or the works of God’s making, but the 
lovers of the world. I know that some of you must find such 
repetition tedious; but it is not for nothing, if some cannot tell, 
when they are asked, whether the preacher said it! So let me 
try by hammering it in to leave something sticking in my 
hearers’ minds li"* The world, in its good sense, is heaven and 
earth and God’s works in them, as when it is said: “the world 
was made by him.” Again, the world may mean the fulness of 
the earth, as in John’s own words: “he is the propitiator not only 
of our sins but of the sins of the whole world.” Here “world” 
means all the faithful, scattered in all parts of the earth. But in 
its bad sense, the world is the world’s lovers; and those who love 
the world, cannot love their brother. 

10. “. . . if the world hateth us: we know” — and what is it that 
we know? — “that we have passed from death unto life” — and 
how do we know that? — “because we love the brethren.” Let 
there be no questioning of another. Let each man turn to his own 
heart, and if there he finds charity towards his brothers, let him 
be sure that he has passed from death unto life. His place already 
is on the right hand; he need not be concerned that his glory is 
at present hidden; when the Lord comes, then he will appear 
in glory. He has the vigour of life, though it is still winter: his 
root is vigorous, though the branches be dry: there is life in the 
pith, the leaves and fruit are ready there within, waiting for the 
summer. Therefore “we know that we have passed from death 
unto life, because we love the brethren. He that loveth not, re- 
maineth in death.” And lest you suppose it a light thing, my 
brothers, to hate or not to love, hear the warning that follows: 
“Every one that hateth his brother is a murderer.” If there were 
any that made light of hatred for brothers, can he in his heart 
make light of murder? He may not lift his hand to kill, yet al- 
ready he is counted by the Lord a murderer. The brother may 
live, but he is already judged as the shedder of blood. “Every 
one that hateth his brother is a murderer, and ye know that no 
murderer hath eternal life abiding in him.” 

11. “Hereby we know love.” He speaks now of love’s perfec- 
tion, that perfection on which we have dwelt. “Hereby we know 

i-* A pleasant example of the preacher’s knowledge of his congregation. 

John I • 10. 1*1 John a:2. 



HOMILIES ON 1 JOHN 3OI 

love, in that he laid down his life for us; and we ought to lay 
down our lives for the brethren.” Here is the beanng of the 
Lord’s words: “Peter, lovest thou me? Feed my sheep.” Peter’s 
feeding of his sheep was to mean the laying down of his life for 
them: as we may learn from the saymg that followed. “When 
thou wast young, thou girdedst thyself, and went whither thou 
wouldest; but when thou shalt be old, another shall gird thee, 
and carry thee whither thou wilt not. And this he said,” adds 
the evangelist, “signifying by what death he should glorify 
God” — ^teaching the man he had charged to feed his sheep to 
lay down his life for the sheep. 

12. Brethren, how does charity begin? Wait a moment. You 
have heard how it is made perfect: the end of it and the form of 
it has been enjoined by the Lord in the gospel: “greater charity 
hath no mail than this, that he lay down Ws life for his friends.” 
Thus is the perfection of charity shown in the gospel, and thus 
commended here. But you will be asking among yourselves. 
When shall we be able to possess such charity? Do not too soon 
despair of yourself. Perhaps it is already bom, but not yet grown 
to perfection: cherish it, so that it be not stifled. You may say. 
But how am I to know? We have been told how it is perfected, 
but we would hear how it begins. This is what John goes on to 
say: “He that hath this world’s goods, and seeth his brother 
an-hungered, and shutteth up his bowels of compassion from 
him, how shall the love of God be able to dwell in lum?” There 
is where charity begins. If you are not yet capable of dying for 
your brother, show now your capacity to give him of your goods. 
Let charity even now be stirring your inmost heart to do it, not 
for display but out of the very marrow of compassion, thinking 
only of the man and his need. If you cannot give of your super- 
fluity to your brother, are you going to be able to lay down your 
life for him? In your purse lies money, of which thieves may rob 
you; and if they do not, still you must part from it when you die, 
though it part not from you while you live. What are you going 
to do with it? Your brother is hungry, in want: maybe he is in 
trouble, hard pressed by some creditor. He has not what he 
needs, you have. He is your brother, he and you were purchased 
together, one price was paid for both of you, both were re- 
deemed by the blood of Christ. Is there pity m you for him, if 
you have this world’s goods? Do you ask. What concern is it of 
mine? Am I to give my money to save him from inconvenience? 
If that is the answer your heart gives you, the love of the Father 

17 John 15:13. 



302 Augustine: later works 

dwells not in you; and if the love of the Father dwells not in you, 
you are not born of God. How can you boast of being a Chris- 
tian? You have the name and not the deeds. If the work goes 
with the name, call you pagan who will, you prove yourself 
Christian by your deeds. For if your deeds prove not your 
Christianity, then though all may call you Christian, the name 
without the reality can avail you nothing. ‘‘He that hath this 
world’s goods, and seeth his brother have need, and shutteth 
up his bowels of compassion from him, how can the love of God 
dwell in him?” And then it goes on: ‘Xittle children, let us 
not love in word only and in tongue, but in work and in truth.” 



SIXTH HOMILY 
I John 3:19-4:3 

I, You remember^ my brothers, that we ended our sermon of 
yesterday with that sentence, which, as it was the last you heard, 
should certainly have stayed and still remain in your mind: 
“Little children, let us not love in word only and in tongue, but 
in work and in truth-” 

2. We ask, What is this work and this truth? Can there be a 
work more apparent than giving to the poor? Yet many do it 
for display and not for love. Can there be a greater work than 
dying for the brethren? Yet even of this many seek only the 
reputation, ambitious of acquiring the name, and not in truly 
heartfelt love. The true lover of his brother is he who before God 
assures his own heart, wherein God alone sees, who puts to his 
heart the question whether what he does is indeed for love of 
the brethren; and has witness borne him by that eye that pene- 
trates the heart, which no man can observe. So the apostle 
Paul, ready as he was to die for his brethren, saying, “I will 
myself be spent for your souls,” 1 yet because that motion of his 
heart was visible to God only and not to the man to whom he 
spoke, he tells them: “To me indeed it is a very small thing to be 
judged of you, or by any day of man.”^ And in another place 
the same Paul shows that such things may be done for empty 
display, not in the solid strength of charity. In his commending 
of charity itself he says: “If I give all my goods to the poor, or 
give my body to burn, and have not charity, it profiteth me 
nothing.” 3 Can anyone so act without charity? It is indeed pos- 
sible. Look among those who for lack of charity have brought 
division upon our unity: you will see many who give much to 
the poor; you will see others so ready to face death that when 
1 II Cor. 12:15. 2 I Cor. 4*3. See R.V mg. 3 l Cor. 13.3. 

303 



AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


304 

the persecutor stays his hand they hurl themselves to destruc- 
tion/ Such men, certainly, do this without charity. Back, then, 
to the voice of conscience, of which the apostle says: ^Tor this 
is our glory, the testimony of our conscience.” ^ Back to the 
voice of conscience, of which the apostle says again: “Let each 
man prove his own work, and then shall he have glorying in 
himself and not in another.” ^ Let each one of us prove his own 
work, whether it issues from the pulse of charity, whether the 
branches of good works spring forth from the root of love. “Let 
each man prove his own work,” says Paul, “and then shall he 
have glorying in himself and not in another” — ^when witness is 
borne him not by another’s tongue but by his own conscience. 

3. This, then, is what our Epistle here teaches us. “Hereby we 
know that we are of the truth,” — ^when we love in work and in 
truth, not in words and tongue only — “and assure our heart 
before him,” “Before him” — that is, where God sees him. So 
says the Lord himself in the Gospel: “Take heed that ye do not 
your righteousness before men, to be seen of them: else ye shall 
have no reward with your Father who is in heaven.” What else 
is the meaning of the saying: “Let not thy left hand know what 
thy right hand doeth,” but that the right hand is a pure con- 
science, and the left the desire of the world? From desire of the 
world, many perform many a wonder: but it is the work of the 
left hand, not the right. The right hand must do the work, and 
without the left hand knowing it, lest worldly desire intrude 
itself when we do a thing in the love of what is good. And how 
can we be sure of this? You stand before God: ask your own 
heart, look at what you have done and what was your purpose 
in it — ^your own salvation, or the empty praise of man. Look 
within; for a man cannot judge one whom he cannot see. 

If we assure our heart, let us do so in God’s presence. “For if 
our heart feel evil,” that is, charges us inwardly of not acting 
with the right intention, “God is greater than our heart and 
knoweth all things.” You may hide your heart from man: hide 
it from God if you can. How shall you hide it from him to whom 
a sinner of old time spoke in trembhng confession: “Whither shall 
I go from thy spirit? and whither shall I flee from thy pre- 
sence?”® He sought a place of escape from God’s judgment, and 
found none: for where is God not? “If I climb up into heaven, 

4 So the Circumcellions were reported to do m their fanatical zeal for 

martyrdom. 

5 II Cor. 1:12. 

7 Matt. 6.1, 3. 


6 Gal. 6:4, 

8 Ps. 139.7 f. 



HOMILIES ON I JOHN 3O5 

thou art there; if I go down into hell, thou art with me.” 
Whither are you to go, whither can you flee? If you will hear 
counsel, flee to God himself if you would flee from him: flee to 
him by confessing, not by hiding; for hide you cannot, but con- 
fess you can. Say unto him, ‘‘Thou art my refuge” and let the 
love which alone opens the way to life be nourished in you. Let 
witness be borne you by your conscience, for it is of God; and if 
It is of God, desire not to display it before men; for neither can 
their praises exalt you to heaven nor their censures pull you 
down from thence. Let his eyes be on you, who gives the crown, 
let him be the witness by whose judgment you receive it. “God 
is greater than our heart, and knoweth all things.” 

4. “Beloved, if our heart feel no evil, we have confidence 
unto God,” “Feel no evil” — that is, tells us truly that we love, 
and that the love in us is true love, sincere, not feigned, seeking 
our brother’s good, looking for no profit from our brother but 
his own well-being. “We have confidence unto God; and what- 
soever we ask, we shall receive from him, because we keep his 
commandments.” Our confidence then is not in the sight of 
men, but where God himself sees, in the heart; and we shall 
receive from him whatsoever we ask, only because we keep his 
commandments. What are his commandments? Need we al- 
ways be repeating it? — “A new commandment give I unto you, 
that ye love one another.” lo The duty of which our text speaks 
is charity, charity is what it enjoins. Whoever has charity for 
the brethren and has it before God, in the place where God sees, 
and whoever’s heart, when honestly examined, gives to his 
questioning no answer but that it holds the true root of charity, 
whence good fruits proceed — he has confidence with God, and 
whatever he asks he shall receive from him, because he keeps 
his commandments. 

5. But there is a difficulty here. Of you or me, or of any man 
of our time, who may ask something of the Lord our God and 
not receive it, it is easy to say, “He has not charity.” One man 
may think as he will of another. But a more serious question 
arises, when we consider those men whom all acknowledge to 
have written as saints and now to be with God. 

6. You and I are nothing but the Church of God, known to 

all: if God will, we belong to his Church, and if we abide in her 
by love, we must so persevere if we would show the love we have. 
But how are we to think evil of the apostle Paul? Did he not love 
his brethren? Did he not have the witness of his conscience in the 
9 Ps. 32.7. 10 John 13:34. 



3o6 Augustine: later works 

sight of God? Was there not in Paul that root of charity whence 
all good fruits proceeded? It would be madness to deny it. Yet 
we find him asking and not receiving. “Lest I be exalted by the 
greatness of the revelations, there was given unto me a pricking 
of my flesh, a messenger of Satan to buffet me. Concerning 
which I besought the Lord three times that he would take it 
away from me, and he said unto me, My grace is sufficient for 
thee; for strength is made perfect in weakness.” You see, his 
prayer that the messenger of Satan might be taken away from 
him was not heard. But why? Because it was not for his good. 
Thus he was heard unto his own good, though not heard accord- 
ing to his desire. This is a great mystery, which I would have 
you, my people, understand and always remember in your 
temptations. The prayers of the saints are heard unto their 
good in all things, always heard unto their eternal good. 
And that is what they desire: to that end they are always 
heard. 

8 . So we should understand that though God gives not what 
we wish, he gives what is for our good. When you are ill, you 
may ask for something that is bad for you, which the physician 
knows to be so. Suppose you ask for cold water: if it is good for 
you, the doctor will give it at once; if it is not, he will refuse it, 
but that does not mean that he does not hearken. In denying 
you your wish, he has hearkened to you for your health. So let 
charity, brethren, be in you: let charity be in you, and you need 
have no care. Even when your request is not granted, you are 
heard, though you know it not. Many are left to themselves, to 
their hurt, of whom the apostle says: “God gave them over to 
the desires of their heart.” 12 A man that has asked for great 
wealth may have received it to his own hurt. While he was 
without It, he had little to fear; as soon as he has possession of it 
he has become a prey to the stronger. His wish to own what 
brings the robber’s hand upon him, when in his poverty none 
attacked him, has indeed been granted to his hurt. Learn so to 
make your requests to God, as trusting the physician to do what 
he knows best. Confess your sickness, and let him apply the 
remedy: only hold fast yourself to charity. Let him use knife or 
cautery as he wills: if under the cutting, the burning, and the 
pain your cry is not heard, he knows how far the gangrene goes. 
You want him to withdraw his hand, while he searches the 
wound: he knows how deep he must press to reach the end. He 
does not hear you as you would, but as your cure demands. Be 
11 II Cor. ia.7 ff. 12 Rom. I 24. 



HOMILIES ON I JOHN 307 

sure, then, my brethren, that the apostle’s words are true: “For 
we know not what to pray for as we ought; but the Spirit him- 
self maketh intercession for us with groamngs that cannot be 
uttered, because it is he that intercedeth for the saints.” The 
Spirit that intercedes is nothing but the same charity which the 
Spint has wrought in you: as the same apostle says, “The 
charity of God is shed abroad in our hearts through the Holy 
Spirit that is ^ven to us-’’^-^ Charity itself groans in prayer, and 
he who gave it cannot shut his ears to its voice. Cast away care, 
let charity make request, and the ears of God are ready to 
listen. The answer comes, not what you want, but what is to 
your advantage. Therefore, “Whatsoever we shall ask, we shall 
receive from him.” Here, as I have said, there is no ifficulty, 
if we understand that the receiving is for our good: otherwise 
the difl&culty is so great as to lead you into calumny of the 
apostle Paul. “Whatsoever we shall ask, we shall receive from 
him; because we keep his commandments, and do what is 
pleasing to him in his sight.” — “In his sight” — that is, in the 
inward place where he sees us. 

9. And what are these commandments? “This is his com- 
mandment, that we should believe the name of his Son Jesus 
Christ, and love one another.” You see what the commandment 
is, and you see that its transgressor commits the sin from which 
every man that is bom of God must be free. “As he gave us 
commandment” — namely, to love one another. “And he that 
keepeth his commandment” — ^remember that it enjoins upon 
us nothing but love of one another — “he that keepeth his com- 
mandment shall abide in him, and he in him. And hereby we 
know that he abideth in us, from the Spint which he hath given 
us.” Is it not plain that the Holy Spirit’s work in man is to cause 
love and chanty to be in him? Is it not plain that, in the words 
of the apostle Paul, “the charity of God is shed abroad in our 
hearts through the Holy Spirit that is given to us”? John was 
speaking of charity, and saying that we ought to question our 
own heart in the sight of God. “But if our heart feel no evil” — 
that means, if the heart confess that any good work is wholly 
performed from love of brother. And if that were not enough, he 
adds when speaking of the commandment: “This is his com- 
mandment, that we should believe the name of his Son Jesus 
Christ, and love one another. And he that doeth his command- 
ment abideth in him, and he in him. Hereby we know that he 
abideth in us, from the Spirit which he hath given us.” If you 
13 Rom. 8- 26 f. 1 “ Rom. 5.5. 



3o8 Augustine: later works 

find charity in yourself, you have the Spirit of God to give you 
understanding; and that is a thing most necessary. 

10. At the Church’s beginning the Holy Spirit fell upon the 
believers, and they spoke with tongues unlearnt, as the Spirit 
gave them utterance. It was a sign, fitted to the time: all the 
world’s tongues were a fitting sigmfication of the Holy Spirit, 
because the gospel of God was to have its course through every 
tongue in all parts of the earth. The sign was given, and then 
passed away. We no longer expect that those upon whom the 
hand is laid, that they may receive the Holy Spirit, will speak 
with tongues. When we laid our hand upon these ^‘infants,” 
the Church’s new-born members, none of you (I think) looked 
to see if they would speak with tongues, or, seeing that they did 
not, had the perversity to argue that they had not received the 
Holy Spirit, for if they had received, they would have spoken 
with tongues as happened at the first. If dien the Holy Spirit’s 
presence is no longer testified by such marvels, on what is anyone 
to ground assurance that he has received the Holy Spirit? Let 
him enquire of his own heart: if he loves his brother, the Spirit 
of God abides in him. Let him see himself, examine himself 
before the eye of God: let him see if there is in him the love of 
peace and unity, love of the Church that is spread throughout 
all the world. Let him look for love, not only of the brother pre- 
sent at his door. We have many brothers whom we do not see, 
yet are we linked to them in the unity of the Spirit. That not all 
are here with us is natural; but all of us are in one Body, and 
have one Head in heaven. My brothers, our eyes cannot see 
themselves, they are as it were unknown to themselves; but we 
cannot say that they know not themselves in the charity of a 
single bodily organism. That they know themselves in charity’s 
union is plain from the fact that when both are open, the right 
eye cannot mark anything unmarked by the left. You cannot 
turn one upon its object without the other: they go together, and 
turn together: they have one direction, though their positions 
are separate. If then all who love God with you share with you 
a single direction, do not think of your bodily separation from 
them in space: together you have set your heart’s eye upon the 
light of truth. And so, if you would know that you have received 
the Spirit, ask your own heart: it may be that the sacrament is 
yours without the virtue of the sacrament, Ask your heart; and 

^5 Cf Horn, I, 5. 

In schism the sacrament must be without its ‘^virtue’*: within the 

Church it may be. Cf. Introduction, p. 256. 



HOMILIES ON I JOHN 3O9 

if the love of brother is there, your mind may be at rest. There 
can be no love without the Spirit of God. Paul cries aloud: ‘The 
charity of God is shed abroad in our hearts through the Holy 
Spirit which is given to us.” 

II. “Beloved, believe not every Spirit.” This is because he 
had said: “Hereby we know that he abideth in us, from the 
Spirit which he hath given to us.” Now you are to observe how 
the Spirit himself is recognized: “Beloved, believe not every 
spirit, but test the spirits, if they be of God.” And who is to be 
the tester of the spirits? The task set before us is a hard one, my 
brethren, and it were good for us to be taught by the apostle 
how we are to discern the truth. He will teach us, no fear; but 
first observe with attention, and see how the chicaneries of idle 
heretics have their source here exposed. Observe: “Beloved, 
believe not every spirit; but test the spirits if they be of God.” 
The Holy Spirit is described in the Gospel under the symbol of 
water, when the Lord cried, saying: “If any man thirst, let him 
come to me and drink: he that believeth on me, from his belly 
shall flow rivers of living water.” And the evangelist expounds 
the meaning of the saying, in the next verse: “this he spake of 
the Spirit which they that should believe on him were to re- 
ceive.” There were not many baptized by our Lord: it says, 
“the Spirit was not yet given, because Jesus was not yet glori- 
fied.” Some were already baptized, but they had not yet 
received the Holy Spirit, whom the Lord sent from heaven on 
the day of Pentecost. For the giving of the Spirit, the Lord’s 
glorifying was waited for. Yet before he was glorified and sent 
the Spirit, he was calling men to prepare themselves to receive 
that water of which he said: “Let him that thirsts come unto me 
and drink”; and, “He that believeth on me, from his belly shall 
flow rivers of living water.” What are “nvers of living water”? 
What is this “water”? No need to ask me: the Gospel tells you. 
“This he spake of the Spirit, which they that should beheve on 
him were to receive.” There is a difference, then, between the 
water of the sacrament and the water that signifies the Spirit 
of God. The water of the sacrament is visible: the water of the 
Spirit is invisible. The former washes the body, and signifies 
what happens in the soul: by the Spirit the soul itself is cleansed 
and nourished. This is the Spirit of God that cannot be pos- 
sessed by heretics, or any that sever themselves from the 
Church. Moreover, all they who are so severed, not by their own 
express act but by reason of their wickedness, and thus become 

John 7.37 fF. 



310 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

chaff, tossed about within the threshing-floor, and not grain, 
all these possess not the Spirit — that Spirit signified by our Lord 
with the name of water. 

12. It still remains for us to discover how the presence of 
God’s Spirit is to be tested. We are given an indication, though 
not perhaps a simple one; but let us see. We shall be brought 
back to charity, the charity which instructs us, because it is our 
anointing. But what is said here? “Test the spirits, if they be of 
God; for many false prophets have gone out into the world.” 
There we are pointed to all that is heresy or schism. And the 
means of testing is now to be given. “Hereby is known the 
Spirit of God.” Open your heart’s ear! We have been asking in 
our perplexity, who can know or discern? Now we are to receive 
a sign. “Hereby is known the Spirit of God. Every spirit that con- 
fesseth that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh, is of God. And every 
spirit that confesseth not that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh, 
IS not of God; and this is Antichrist, of whom ye have heard 
that he is to come: and now is he in the world.” We are listen- 
ing eagerly for the discernment of spirits, and what we have heard 
seems to give us no help in discerning them. What are we told? 
“Every spirit that confesseth that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh, 
is of God.” But then the spirit that is in heretics will be of God; 
for many of them confess that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh. 

13. Ah, my brethren, but we must pay heed to men’s actions 
and not to the noise of their words! Let us ask why Christ came 
in the flesh; then we may find who are they that deny his coming 
so. If you pay heed to words, you will hear many a heresy con- 
fessing that Christ has come in the flesh; but truth convicts 

them. Why did Christ come in the flesh? Was he not God? Is it 
not written of him: “In the beginning was the Word, and the 
Word was with God, and the Word was God”?!'^ Was he not 

then, as he is now, the food of angels? Did he not come to this 
world without leaving heaven, and again ascend without leav- 
ing us alone? Why then did he come in the flesh? Because it 
needed that we should be shown the hope of resurrection. He 
was God, and he came in the flesh. Death was not possible for 
God: for the flesh it was; and he came in the flesh in order that 
he might die for us. And how came he to die for us? “Greater 
charity hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for 
his friends.” 18 Charity therefore it was that brought him to 
death; and it follows that whoever has not charity, denies 
Christ’s coming in the flesh. 

17 John i;i. 18 John 15* 13. 



HOMILIES ON I JOHN 3II 

Now put the question to every heretic.^® “Did Christ come 
in the flesh?” “He did: so I believe and confess.” “Nay, but you 
deny it.” “How so? You hear me assert it.” “Nay, I convict you 
of your denial: you assert it with the voice and deny it with the 
heart; you assert it in words, but deny it in deed.” “In what 
way do I deny it in deed?” “Because Christ came in the flesh 
m order that he should die for us, and he died for us because he 
taught the height of charity: 'Greater charity hath no man 
than this, that he lay down his life for his friends.’ You have 
not charity, because you break up unity to do yourself honour.” 
— Hence, then, you may know the Spirit that is of God. Tap 
with your finger on the vessel of earthenware, and see whether 
the sound it gives be cracked or false. See if it sounds true and 
whole: see if charity is there. You are removing yourself from 
the world’s unity, you are dividing the Church by schisms, you 
are rending the Body of Christ. He came in the flesh to gather 
men together: you cry aloud to scatter them abroad. Therefore 
the Spirit of God is he that maintains Christ’s coming in the 
flesh, not in word but in deed, not by loud noises but by love. 
He is not the Spirit of God who denies Jesus Christ’s coming in 
the flesh, whose denial also is not by his tongue but by his hfe, 
not in words but in deeds. So it is clear how we are to iriow the 
brethren. Many are within the Church that are within in seem- 
ing only; but none are without that are not without in reality. 20 

19 But of course Augustine is thinking of Donatists. 

10 Augustine would however have added that some of those who are 

“without” are nevertheless predestinate members of the Church. 



SEVENTH HOMILY 
I John 4:4-12 

2. “Now ye are children of God, and ye have overcome him.” 
Overcome, that is, the Antichrist; for he had said above: 
“Every one that dissolveth Jesus Christ, and denies that he is 
come in the flesh, is not of God.” We have explained, as you 
remember, that all who violate charity deny Jesus Christ’s com- 
ing in the flesh, because there was no cause but charity for the 
coming of Jesus. It is that same charity here enjoined upon us, 
which he himself enjoins in the Gospel: “Greater love can no 
man have than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends.” 1 
By no means could the Son of God lay down his life for us, but 
by clothing himself with the flesh in which he might die. There- 
fore whoever violates charity, let his tongue say what it will, by 
his life denies Christ’s coming in the flesh; and that man is 
Antichrist, wherever he is and into whatever place he has 
made his way. And to them who are citizens of the home-land 
after which we sigh, John says: “ye have overcome him.” How? 
“Because greater is he that is in you than he that is in this 
world.” He would not have them ascribe the victory to their 
own strength, and so be overcome by the presumption of pride; 
for the devil overcomes every man that he makes proud. So, 
With intent that they may keep humble, John says, first, “ye have 
overcome him.” That word “overcome” might make any man 
raise his head, hold himself upright, and look for praise. But be 
not uplifted, see whose is the victory in you: you have overcome, 
“because greater is he that is in you than he that is in this 
world.” Be humble, carry your Master, go quietly under your 
rider. It is good for you that he have the reins, and use them. If 
you have not him on your back, you may throw up your head 

1 John 15:13. 

312 



HOMILIES ON I JOHN 313 

and heels, but, riderless, it will go ill with you: that freedom will 
despatch you to the wild beasts as their prey. 

3. ‘‘They are of the world: therefore speak they of the world, 
and the world heareth them.” They who speak of the world, 
you must observe, are they who speak against charity. You have 
heard the Lord’s saying: “If ye forgive men their sms, your 
heavenly Father also will forgive you your sins; but if ye for- 
give not, neither will your Father forgive you your sins.”^ 
There is the sentence of truth: deny it, if it be not the Truth 
who speaks. If you are a Christian and believe the Christ, he 
said: “I am the truth”^: that sentence is true and fast. Now 
hear the men that speak of the world: “Are you not to have your 
revenge? Is he to tell the tale of what he has done to you? No, 
let him feel that he is dealing with a man!” We hear that sort 
of thing every day, from those who “speak of the world”; and 
the world hears them. Such things are said only by those who 
love the world; and only by those who love the world are they 
listened to. 

You have been told that he who loves the world and is regard- 
less of charity, denies the coming of Jesus in the flesh. What if 
the Lord himself had so acted in the flesh: if when struck by 
men’s hands, he had been moved to avenge himself; if, hanging 
on the cross, he had not said: “Father, forgive them, for they 
know not what they do”? If he, who had the power, would use 
no threatenings, why should you, that are subject to another’s 
power, go puffing and blowing? ^ He died because he willed to 
die, and threatened not: are you to threaten, who know not 
when your death shall be? 

4. “We are of God.” Let us see why that is so: whether there 
is any reason but charity. “We are of God: he that knoweth 
God, heareth us; he that is not of God, heareth us not. Hereby 
know we the spirit of truth and of error.” Because he that hears 
us, has the spirit of truth, and he that hears us not, has the spirit 
of error. Now let us see how he counsels us, and let us hear his 
counsel as given in the spirit of truth: counsel given not to Anti- 
christs, not to lovers of the world, not to the world. If we are 
born of God, “Beloved,” he goes on — and remember what he 
has said; “We are of God; he that knoweth God, heareth us: 
he that is not of God, heareth us not. Hereby is known the 
spirit of truth and of error.” Our attention is roused: he that 
loiows God, hearkens, he that knows not, hearkens not; and 

2 Matt. 6: 14 f. 3 John 14:6. 

4 Augustine has the homely expression Quid sufflas? 



AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


314 

here lies the discerning of the spirit of truth and of error. Let us 
see what is to be the counsel, wherein we should hear him. 
‘‘Beloved, let us love one another.” Why? Because this is a man’s 
counsel? “Because love is of God.” It is a strong commendation 
of love, to say that it is of God; but there is more to come, and 
let us listen with all our ears. “Love,” he has said, “is of God; 
and everyone that loveth is bom of God, and knoweth God. He 
that loveth not, knoweth not God.” Why? “For God is love.” 
My brothers, what more could be said? If nothing else were 
said in praise of love, in aU the pages of this Epistle, nothing else 
whatever in any other page of Scripture, and this were the one 
and only thing we heard from the voice of God’s Spirit — “For 
God is love” — ^we should ask for nothing more. 

5. See now, that to act contrary to love is to act contrary to 
God. Let no man say: “When I do not love my brother, I sin 
against a man”; — note this well — “sin against a man is a small 
thing. It is only against God I may not sin.” How can you not be 
sinning against God, when you sin against love? “God is love.” 
The words are not mine. If it were I that said, “God is love,” 
any of you might take offence, and say, “What was that? What 
did he mean, ‘God is love’? God has given love, God has 
granted love.” — “Love is of God: God is love.” There, my 
brethren, is God’s Scripture before you: this is a canonical 
Epistle, read in every nation, maintained by universal authority, 
on which the world itself has been built up. Here you are told by 
the Spirit of God, “God is love.” Now, if you dare, act against 
God, and refuse to love your brother. 

6 . But how do these two texts stand to one another? First, 

“Love is of God,” and now, “God is love.” God is Father, and 
Son, and Holy Spirit. The Son is God of God; the Holy Spirit 
is God of God; and these three are one God, not three Gods. If 
the Son is God, and the Holy Spirit is God, and he in whom the 
Holy Spirit dwells is a lover; then God is love — but God because 
of God. In the Epistle you have both: “Love is of God,” and 
“God is love.” Of the Father alone. Scripture never says that he 
IS “of God.” So when we read the words “of God,” we must 
understand them either of the Son or of the Holy Spirit. And 
from the saying of the apostle: “The charity of God is spread 
abroad in our hearts through the Holy Spirit that is given to 
us,” 5 we may understand that in love is the Holy Spirit. ^ It is 
the Holy Spirit himself, whom evil men cannot receive, who is 
that fountain of which Scripture says, “Let thy fountain of 
5 Rom. 5:5. 6 The same exegesis is developed in De Tnn,^ XV, 31. 



HOMILIES ON I JOHN 315 

water be thine own, and let no stranger share with thee.” For 
all who love not God are strangers, Antichrists. Though they 
enter our churches, they cannot be counted among the sons of 
God: that fountain of life belongs not to them. The evil man as 
well as the good can possess baptism: the evil man as well as 
the good can possess the gift of prophecy. King Saul possessed 
it: he persecuted the saintly David, and was filled by the spirit 
of prophecy and began to prophesy. The evil man as well as 
the good can receive the sacrament of the Body and Blood of 
the Lord; for of such it is written: “he that cateth and drinketh 
unworthily, eateth and drinketh judgment to himself.”* The 
evil man as well as the good can have the name of Christ, can 
be called a Christian: of such it is written: “They defiled the 
name of their God.”® All these sacraments may be possessed by 
the evil man; but to have chanty and be an evil man is not pos- 
sible. This therefore is the peculiar gift of the Spirit: he is the 
one and only fountain. To drink of it, CJod’s Spirit calls you: 
God’s Spirit calls you to drink of himself. 

7. “Hereby is manifested the love of God in us.” See now, we 
have our calling to love God. Could we love him, did he not 
first love us? If we were slow to love, let us not be slow to the 
return of love. He first loved us — not as we love ourselves. He 
loved wicked men, but did away their wickedness; he loved 
wicked men, but not for wickedness did he bring them together 
into one; he loved sick men, but visited them for their cure. 
Then — “God is love. Hereby is manifested the love of God in us, 
in that he sent his only-begotten Son into this world, that we 
might live through him.” Even as the Lord himself says: 
“Greater love can no man have than that he lay down his life 
for his friends”; and in this is proved Christ’s love towards us, 
that he died for us. Wherein is proved the Father’s love towards 
us? In that he sent his only Son to die for us; as Paul the aposde 
also says: “He that spared not his own Son, but delivered him 
up for us all, how hath he not also with him given us all 
things?”!® Christ was delivered up by the Father, and dehvered 
up by Judas: is there no seeming likeness between these two acts? 
Judas is a betrayer; then is God too a betrayer? God forbid, you 
say. But what makes the difference between the Father delivering 
up the Son, the Son delivering up himself, and Judas the dis- 
ciple delivering up his Master? In that Father and Son did it 
in charity, Judas in treachery. You see, we have to look, not at 

7 Prov. 5 16 f. ® I Cor 11*29. 

9 Ezek. 36.20. Rom. 8.32. 



3i6 Augustine: later works 

what a man does, but with what mind and will he does it. We 
find God the Father in the very same act in which we find 
Judas; we bless the Father, and we execrate Judas. Why so? 
Because we bless chanty, and execrate wickedness. How vast a 
good has come to mankind from the delivering-up of Christ! 
But that was not what was in the mind of Judas. In the mind of 
God was the salvation whereby we are redeemed: in the mind 
of Judas the money for which he sold his Lord. The Son himself 
thought upon the price he paid for us: Judas upon the price he 
took for selling him. The difference in intention makes a differ- 
ence in the acts. Though the thing is one, yet when we measure 
it by the difference of intention, the one lovable, the other 
damnable, we find that one is to be glorified and the other 
execrated. Such great virtue has charity: you see that it alone 
divides, it alone distinguishes the actions of men. 

8. We have been marking this in similar actions. When we 
look at differing actions, we find that charity may cause a man 
to be fierce, and wickedness to speak smoothly. A boy may be 
struck by has father, and have fair words from a slave-dealer. 
Were you to offer a choice between blows and smooth words, 
who would not choose the fair words and shun the blows? But 
if you look to the persons from whom they come, it is charity 
that strikes and wickedness that ingratiates. You see the point 
we are making, that the actions of men are discerned only 
according to their root in charity. Many things can be done 
that look well, yet do not issue from the root of charity. Thorns 
too have their flowers. Some actions seem harsh or savage, but 
are performed for our discipline at the dictate of charity. Thus 
a short and simple precept is given you once for all: Love, and 
do what you wiU.ii Whether you keep silence, keep silence in 
love; whether you exclaim, exclaim in love; whether you cor- 
rect, correct in love; whether you forbear, forbear in love. Let 
love’s root be within you, and from that root nothing but good 
can spring. 

9. ‘‘Herein is love. Herein is manifested the love of God to- 
wards us, that God sent his only-begotten Son into this world, 
that we might live through him. Herein is love, not that we 
loved him, but that he loved us.” We did not first love him. He 
loved us, to the end that we might love him. “And he sent his 
Son to be the propitiator for our sins” — ^propitiator, that is, 
offerer of sacrifice.^ He offered sacrifice for our sins. Where did 

u See Introduction, p. 257, and cf. below, §11. 

Here Augustine has lUator instead of the consistent Vulgate propittatto. 



HOMILIES ON I JOHN 317 

he find the offering, the pure victim that he would offer? Be- 
cause he could find no other, he offered himself. “Beloved, if 
God so loved us, we ought also to love one another.” “Peter,” 
the Lord says, “lovest thou me?” And Peter said: “I love thee.” 
“Feed my sheep.” 

10. “No man hath seen God at any time.” God is an invisible 
reality: he is to be sought, not with the eye, but with the heart. 
If we would see the light of the sun, we must keep clear the 
bodily eye which is our means of beholding it. So if we would see 
God, let us cleanse the eye with which God can be seen. And 
the place of that eye we may learn from the Gospel: “Blessed 
are the pure in heart, for they shall see God.” 12 Only let not the 
“desire of the eyes” fashion our thought of God. One may easily 
imagine for oneself some vast form, or some measureless im- 
mensity extended through space, as it might be this light which 
our eyes can see, increased to the limit and flooding the land- 
scape; or one may picture some old man of venerable aspect. 
But our thoughts are not to go that way. There is true matter for 
your thought, if you would see God. “God is love.” What out- 
ward appearance, what form, what stature, hands or feet, has 
love? None can say; and yet love has feet, which take us to the 
Church, love has hands which give to the poor, love has eyes 
which give intelligence of him who is in need — as the Psalm 
says: “Blessed is he who bethinks himself of the needy and 
poor.”i 2 Love has ears, of which the Lord says: “He that hath 
ears for hearing, let him hear.”i^ All these are not members set 
each in their own place: he that has charity sees the whole at 
once with the understanding’s grasp. Dwell there, and you 
shall be dwelt in: abide, and there shaE be abiding in you. My 
brothers, one does not love what one cannot see. Why then, 
when you hear the praise of chanty, are you stirred to acclama- 
tion and applause? What have I displayed to your eyes? No 
vivid colours, no gold or silver, no gems of the treasure-house. 
My own face has not changed in speaking: this body of mine 
looks as it did when I entered the church, and so do all of you. 
You hear the praise of charity, and your voices nng out. Cer- 
tainly there is nothing for you to see. But let that same delight 
in charity which makes you acclaim it, lead you to hold it fast 
in your heart. Listen to me, my brothers: here is a great 
treasure, which I would urge you with all the power that God 
gives me to win for yourselves. Suppose you were shown some 
cup, finely wrought and gilded, which charmed your eye and 
12 Matt. 5:8. 12 Ps. 41 : 1. 14 Luke 8:8. 



AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


318 

compelled your admiration, delighting you by the artist’s skill, 
the weight of the silver and the gleam of the metal. Any of you 
might exclaim: 'If only that cup were mine!” The words would 
be wasted, for you could not make them come true. Or if one 
were bent on possessing it, he might meditate the stealing of it 
out of the owner’s house. Now you have heard the praise of 
charity: if it delights you, take it for your own — ^no need to com- 
mit any robbery, no need to think of the purchase price. It is 
yours for nothing. Take hold of it, clasp it to yourself: no pos- 
session can be sweeter. If it be such to the hearing of it, what 
must it be in the owning! 

II. If there be any of you, my brothers, that would get 
charity and keep it, you must above all avoid thinking of it as a 
poor, inactive thing, wanting no more than a sort of gentle 
mildness for its keeping, or even a careless indifference. Charity 
is not kept in that way. You are not to suppose that you love 
your servant when you do not beat him, or love your son when 
you relax your discipline over him, or love your neighbour when 
you never find fault with him. That is not charity, but weakness. 
Let charity be zealous to set right, to correct faults, to delight in 
good behaviour, but to correct and improve what is bad. Love 
the man, not his errors; for God made the man, his errors are 
his own doing. Love what God has made, not what man has 
done. In loving the first, you remove the second: in loving the 
one, you amend the other. And if sometimes you must be harsh 
or angry, let it be for love of righting the wrong. That is why 
charity is shown by the dove which came down upon the Lord, 
The appearance of the dove was that under which came the 
Holy Spirit, by whom charity was to be poured into us; and the 
reason is that the dove has no gall, and though it fight for its 
nest with beak and wings, its anger is without bitterness. So does 
a father act: when he chastens his son, his purpose is discipline. 
As I said before, the kidnapper who would sell the boy, gives 
him fair words with a foul intent; the father who would correct 
him, puts no gall into his chastising. Be so yourselves with all 
men. Here, my brothers, is a good pattern, a good rule: all of 
you have sons or hope to have them, or if any of you have re- 
solved to have no sons of your body, he will desire spiritual 
children. Is there one that does not correct his son, or any son 
who does not receive discipline from his father? Yet there must 
be an appearance there of anger. Love can be angry, charity 
can be angry, with a kind of anger in which there is no gall, like 
the dove’s and not the raven’s. 



HOMILIES ON I JOHN 319 

And this suggests to me, my brethren, a word on that schism 
which violators of charity have brought about. For their hatred 
of charity has been matched by their hate for the Dove. But the 
Dove convicts them, the Dove that comes forth from heaven, 
as the heavens are opened, and stays over the Lord’s head. And 
wherefore so? For the hearing of these words: “This is he that 
baptizeth.”i5 Back, brigands! Back, usurpers of Christ’s estate! 
Upon those estates, over which you seek to rule, you have dared 
to post the title-deeds of a greater owner. He recognizes his 
titles and claims his own estate: he will not erase the titles, but 
he will enter and possess his own. So, when one comes into the 
Catholic Church, there is no cancelling of his baptism, no 
erasing of the Emperor’s title. The title is acknowledged: the 
owner enters under his own titles where the brigand had 
entered under a title that was not his. 

IS John 1:33; see Introduction, p. 256. 



EIGHTH HOMILY 
I John 4: 12-16 

4. It may have occurred to some of you, since we have been 
expounding this Episde of John, to ask why the charity 
which he so strongly commends is only brotherly love. He 
speaks of ''him that loveth his brother, ’’ and of the "command- 
ment given to us that we love one another,” Brotherly charity 
is continually spoken of; but of the charity of God, the charity 
(that is) whereby we love God, there is not such constant men- 
tion — though it IS not altogether passed over in silence. On the 
other hand, there is scarcely a word in the whole Epistle about 
the love of enemies. In all his urgent preaching and commenda- 
tion of charity, he does not tell us to love our enemies, only to 
love our brethren. Yet just now, in our reading of the Gospel, we 
heard the text: "If ye love them that love you, what reward have 
you? Do not the publicans the same?” ^ How is it then that John 
the apostle enjoins brotherly love upon us as the great means 
towards our perfecting, while our Lord says that it is not enough 
for us to love our brothers, but that love itself must stretch so 
far as to reach our enemies? The reaching to enemies does not 
mean the passing over of brothers. Our love, like a fire, must 
first take hold of what is nearest, and so spread to what is further 
off. A brother is nearer to you than a casual stranger: and again 
you are closer to the man whom you do not know but who is not 
opposed to you, than to the enemy who is. Your love should 
extend to your neighbours; but that is not to be called exten- 
sion. Love for those who are linked to you is much the same 
as love for yourself. Extend it to such as you do not know, 
who yet have done no harm to you; and now go further than 
them, and reach to the love of enemies. That, certainly, is our 

1 Matt 5.46. 

320 



HOMILIES ON I JOHN 32I 

Lord’s command. Why then has John said nothing of loving an 
enemy? 

5. All love, even the love we call carnal— for which the more 
usual Latin word is not dilectio but amoty dilectio being commonly 
used and understood in a higher sense — all love, my dear 
brothers, implies necessarily an element of goodwill towards 
those who are loved. Whether we use the word dihgere or amare 
— as the Lord did when he said to Peter, Lovest {amas) thou 
me? — ^we should not, indeed we cannot love men in the sense in 
which a glutton will say, I love partridges: the object of his love 
being the killing and eating them. He says he loves, but the 
effect for the partridges is to put an end to their existence: he 
loves their destruction. The love of food can only purport its 
consumption and our own refreshment. Men are not to be loved 
as things to be consumed, but in the manner of friendship and 
goodwill, leading us to do things for the benefit of those we love. 
And if there is nothing we can do, goodwill alone is enough for 
the lover. We should not want there to be unfortunates, so that 
we may exercise works of mercy. You give bread to the hungry; 
but it would be better that no one should hunger, and that you 
should not have to give. You clothe the naked; would that all 
were so clothed that there were no need for it! You bury the 
dead: but we long for that life in which there is no dying. You 
reconcile men at law with one another: but we long for the ever- 
lasting peace of Jerusalem where all quarrels are at an end. All 
these are the services called out by man’s needs. Remove dis- 
tress, and there will be no place for works of mercy. Works of 
mercy will cease, but there will be no quenching of the fire of 
charity. You may have the truest love for a happy man, on 
whom you have nothing to bestow: such love will have a greater 
sincerity and a far more unspoilt purity. Once you have be- 
stowed gifts on the unfortunate, you may easily yield to the 
temptation to exalt yourself over him, to assume superiority 
over the object of your benefaction. He fell into need, and you 
supplied him: you feel yourself as the giver to be a bigger man 
than the receiver of the gift. You should want him to be your 
equal, that both may be subject to the one on whom no favour 
can be bestowed. 

8. The true Christian will never set himself up over other 
men. God gave you a place above the beasts, in which you are 
of more value than they. That is your natural privilege, always 
to be better than a beast. If you would be better than another 
man, you will grudge to see him as your equal. You ought to 

A L W — 21 



322 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

wish all men equal to yourself; and if you have gone beyond 
another man in wisdom^ you should want him too to show him- 
self wise. While he is stiU backward, he may learn of you: while 
he is ignorant, he has need of you; and you appear as teacher, 
he as learner. As teacher, you are the superior; as learner, he 
is the inferior. Unless you want him to be your equal, you will be 
for having him always as the learner, and that will make you a 
grudging teacher. But what sort of teaching will a grudging 
teacher give? I can only beg you not to teach him your grudg- 
ingness. Listen to the apostle’s words, which come from the 
true heart of charity: ‘‘I would that all men were such as I 
myself.” 2 See how he wanted all to be his equals; and just 
because charity made him so desire, he was raised above all. 
Man has transgressed his proper limit: created higher than the 
beasts, he has let covetousness carry him away, so that he 
might be higher than other men. And that is pride. 

9. Consider now the works that pride may do: notice how 
they may resemble or even equal those of charity. Charity 
feeds the hungry, so does pride: charity, to the praise of God, 
pride, to the praise of itself. Charity clothes the naked, so does 
pride; charity fasts, so does pride; charity buries the dead, so 
does pride. All the good works that are willed and done by 
chanty, may be set m motion by its contrary pride, like horses 
harnessed to a car. But when charity is the inward driver, pride 
must give place — pride which is not so much misgoverning as 
misgoverned. It goes ill with the man who has pride for his 
charioteer, for he is sure to be overturned. How can we know or 
see that it be not pride which governs the good deed? Where is 
the proof? We see the works: hunger is fed by compassion, but 
also by pride; strangers are entertained by compassion, but also 
by pride; poverty is protected by compassion, but also by pride. 
In the works themselves we can see no difference. I would go 
further — though it is not I, but Paul who says it: charity goes to 
death, a man (that is) who has charity confesses the name of 
Christ and becomes a martyr; and pride also may do both. The 
one has charity, the other has not; but let this other mark the 
apostle’s words: ‘Tf I give aU my goods to the poor, and if I give 
my body to burn, and have not charity, it profiteth me 
nothing.” ^ So Holy Scripture recalls us from all this outward 
showing, recalls us from the surface appearance displayed be- 
fore men, to the inward truth. Come back to your own con- 
science, and question it: pay heed, not to the visible flowering 
2 I Cor. 7:7. 3 I Cor. 13*3. 



HOMILIES ON I JOHN 323 

but to the root beneath the ground. Is covetousness at the root? 
Then you may have a show of good deeds, but of works truly 
good there can be none. Is charity at the root? Be easy, for no 
evil can be the issue. The proud may speak fair words, love 
may show anger: the one may clothe, the other may smite: the 
one clothes for the pleasing of men, the other smites for the cor- 
rection of discipline. The stroke of charity is more to be wel- 
comed than the alms of pride. Come back, then, my brothers, 
into the place within, and in whatsoever you do, look for the wit- 
ness of God. See, as he sees, the intention of your acts. If your 
heart does not accuse you of acting for the sake of display, it is 
weU, you may be easy. And when you do well, have no fear of 
another’s seeing. Fear only to act so that you may have praise 
for yourself; let the other see, so that God may have the praise. 
If you hide what you do from man’s eyes, you are hiding it 
against man’s imitation, and robbing God of his praise. There 
are two parties for whose benefit you give alms, two are hungry, 
the one for bread, the other for righteousness; for it is written, 
“Blessed are they that hunger and thirst after righteousness, for 
they shall be filled.” * Between these two hungering ones, you 
are set for the working of good: if charity is the worker, it has 
compassion for both, it see& to give help to both. For while the 
one looks for food, the other looks for an example to follow. As 
you feed the first, offer yourself to the second, and you have 
given alms to both. You have enabled the one to give thanks 
for the ending of his hunger, the other to imitate the example 
shown him. 

10. Let your works of mercy, then, proceed from a merciful 
heart; for then even in your love of enemies you will be showing 
love of brothers. Do not think that John has given no charge 
concerning love of one’s enemy; for he has said much of 
brotherly charity, and it is always the brother that you love. 
How so? you ask. I ask in turn. Why do you love your enemy? 
Because you wish him to have good health in this life? but sup- 
pose that is not in his interest? Because you wish him to be rich? 
but if riches themselves should rob him of his sight? To marry a 
wife? but if that should bring him a hfe of bitterness? To have 
children? but suppose they turn out badly? Thus there is un- 
certainty in all the things you seem to desire for your enemy, 
because you love him: uncertainty everywhere. Let your desire 
for him be that together with you he may have eternal life: let 
your desire for him be that he may be your brother. And if that 

4 Matt. 5 6. 



AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


324 

is what you desire in loving your enemy — that he may be your 
brother — ^when you love him, you love a brother. You love in 
him, not what he is, but what you would have him be. Once 
before, if I remember right, my dear people, I put to you this 
parable: Imagine the trunk of a tree lying before you: a good 
carpenter may see such a piece of timber, unhewn, as it was 
cut in the forest. He loves it at sight, but because he means to 
make something out of it. The reason for his love is not that it 
may always remain as it is : as craftsman, he has looked at what 
it shall be, not as lover at what it is; and his love is set upon what 
he will make of it, not upon its present state. Even so has God 
loved us sinners. God, we say, has loved sinners; for we have 
his word, ‘They that are whole need not a physician, but 
they that are sick.” ^ But surely his love for us sinners is not 
to the end that we remain in our sin. Like trees from the 
wood, we have been looked on by the Carpenter, and his 
thought turns to the building he will make of us, not to the 
timber that we were. So may you look upon your enemy, 
standing against you with his angry passion, his biting words, 
his provolang insults, his unrelenting hate. But in aU this 
you need think only that he is a man. You see all the hostility 
to yourself as of the man’s making; and you see in himself 
God’s making. That he was made to be a man, is the act of God: 
his hatred of you, his mahce against you, is his own. And what 
do your say in your heart? “Lord, have mercy on him: forgive 
him his sins: put fear in him, and change him.” You love in 
him, not what he is but what you would have him be; and thus 
when you love your enemy, you love a brother. Therefore the 
perfection of love is the love of an enemy, and this perfect love 
consists in brotherly love. It is not to be held that the apostle 
John enjoins upon us a lesser degree of chanty, and the Lord 
Jesus a greater. John, indeed, instructs us to love our brothers, 
Christ to love even our enemies. But you must consider why 
Christ has bidden you love your enemies. It cannot be with 
the intent that they should always remain such: that would be 
an instruction to hate, not to love. Consider the manner of his 
own love for them, which was a will that they should not con- 
tinue his persecutors: “Father,” he says, “forgive them, for they 
know not what they do.” ^ The will for their pardoning was a 
wiU for their transformation: in willing that they should be 
transformed, he deigned to make brothers out of enemies; and 
so in very truth he did. He was killed, and buried. He rose again 
5 Matt. 9:12. « Luke 23:34. 



HOMILIES ON I JOHN 325 

and ascended into heaven, he sent the Holy Spirit upon his 
disciples. They began with confidence to preach his name, 
they worked miracles in the name of the crucified and slain; 
and those who had done the Lord to death saw what was 
done: that blood which they had shed in fury, they drank in 
faith. 

II. I have spoken of aU this, my brethren, somewhat 
lengthily; but if charity was to be urged upon you, my people, 
with the force demanded, there was no other way. If there is in 
you nothing of charity, all I have said comes to nothing. But 
if it exists at all in you, my words should be as oil upon the 
flames; and perhaps they may have kindled it even where it was 
not. In one, what was already there will have grown: in another, 
what was not may have begun to be. I have spoken in order to 
stir up your backwardness in the love of enemies. If a man is 
passionate against you, meet his passion with prayer: if he hates 
you, meet his hatred with pity. It is the fever in his soul that 
hates you: when he is cured, he will show his gratitude. Think 
of the physician’s love for the sick, he does not love them as 
sick men. If he did, he would want them always to be sick. He 
loves the sick, not so that they may remain sick men but so that 
they may become healthy instead of sick. And how much he 
may have to suffer from them in their delirium — abuse, not 
seldom blows! The physician attacks the fever and excuses the 
man* is this loving his enemy? Truer to say that he is hating his 
real enemy, disease: that is what he hates, w’-hile he loves the 
man that strikes at him. His hatred, then, is for the fever; for the 
blows are struck at him by the disease, the sickness, the fever. 
The physician takes away the thing that shows hostility to him, 
in order that the man may live to give him thanks. So with you. 
If your enemy hates you, and hates you unjustly, you know that 
it is because the lusts of this world have the mastery in him. If 
you meet his hate with hate, you are returning evil for evil; and 
what comes of that^ I had to lament for one sick man, who 
hated you: now, if you are hating also, I must mourn for two. 
But, you say, he has attacked your property, he is robbing you 
of some earthly possession or other: you hate him, because he is 
making this life strait for you. You need not suffer such 
straitening: for you can take your journey into the heaven 
above, lifting up your heart to the wide realm of freedom where 
in the hope of life eternal there is no straitness to be borne. 
Think what it really is of which he would rob you, and remem- 
ber that he could not even do that, were he not permitted by 



326 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

the Father who “chasteneth every son that he receiveth.”? 
Your enemy himself is as it were God’s operating instrument to 
work your own healing: if God knows it to be for your good that 
he should despoil you, he allows it; if God knows it to be for 
your good to be beaten, he allows your enemy to strike you. 
God is using him to make you whole; pray that he too may be 
given healing. 

12. ‘‘No man hath ever seen God.” See, my beloved! “If we 
love one another, God shall abide in us, and his love shall be 
perfected in us.” Make a beginning of love, and you shall be 
made perfect. For if you have begun to love, God has begun to 
dwell in you: love him who has begun to dwell in you, so that 
by a more perfect indwelHng he may make you perfect. 
“Hereby we know that we abide in him, and he in us, because 
he has given us of his Spirit.” It is well: thanks be to God! We 
know that he dwells in us; and how do we know that we know 
it? Because John himself tells us, that “he has given us of his 
Spirit.” How do we know that? How do you know that he has 
given you of his Spirit? Ask your heart: if it is full of charity, 
you have the Spirit of God. How do we know that this is 
evidence for you of God’s Spirit dwelling in you? Ask Paul the 
apostle: “Because the charity of God is shed abroad in our 
hearts through the Holy Spirit that is given us.”s 

13. “And we have seen, and are witnesses, that the Father 
sent his Son to be the Saviour of the world.” Sick men, be at 
your ease: if such a physician has come to you, there can be no 
despairing. Grave were your diseases, incurable your wounds, 
desperate your sickness. But if you think of the gravity of your 
trouble, think also of the omnipotence of the Physician. You 
are desperate, but he is omnipotent; and his witnesses are they 
who first were healed, and who now proclaim the Physician — 
although their own healing were in hope rather than in fulfil- 
ment, as the apostle says: “In hope we are saved.” ^ So we have 
begun to be healed in faith, and our salvation will be per- 
fected, when this corruptible shall have put on incorruption, 
and this mortal shall have put on immortality. That is hope, 
not fulfilment; but he that rejoices in hope shall lay hold 
of the fulfilment, to which he that has not hope can never 
attain. 

14. “Whosoever confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, God 

abideth in him, and he in God.” We need not now insist at 
length, that this confessing must be not in word but in deed, 
7 Heb. 12:6. 8 Rom. 5:5. 9 Rom. 8.24. 



HOMILIES ON I JOHN 327 

not of the tongue but of the hfe, for there are many that confess 
in words what their deeds deny. “And we have known, 
and have believed, what love God hath in us.” Again, how 
have you known this? “God is love.” He has said it before, and 
now says it again. You could not have a fuller commendation 
of love than the naming of it with God’s name. You might 
possibly have thought little of God’s gift, but can you think little 
of God? “God is love, and he that abideth in love, abideth in 
God and God abideth in him.” There is a mutual indwelling 
of the holder and the held: your dwelling in God means that 
you are held by him, God’s dwelling in you means that he holds 
you, lest you fall. Think of yoursetf as being made a house of 
God, but not like the house of bricks and mortar that carries 
you m the body. If that house should go from under you, you 
fall; but God does not fall, if you go from under him. He is whole 
and entire, when you desert him, whole and entire when you 
return to him. Your healing brings no gift to him: it is you that 
are cleansed, you that are amended and re-created. He is medi- 
cine to the unhealthy, rule to the crooked, light to the darkened, 
dwelling to the homeless. The imparting is all to you, and you 
may not suppose that when you come to God there is aught 
imparted to him — even the possession of a slave. God will not 
lack servants, though you refuse, though all refuse his service. 
God has no need of servants, but servants have need of God. 
Hence the words of the Psalm: “I have said unto the Lord, 
thou art my God” — yes, God is the true Lord — “because thou 
needest not my goods.” You need the good your servant pro- 
vides. He needs the good you provide for him in feeding him, 
and you need the good he provides for you by his service. For 
yourself you cannot do all the drawing of water, the cooking, 
the running before your carriage, the grooming of your beast. 
You are m want of the good your servant furnishes, you are in 
want of his attendance; and inasmuch as you want an inferior, 
you are no true lord. The true lord is he who seeks nothing 
from us; and it goes ill with us, if we seek not him. He seel^ 
nothing from us, yet he sought us when we were not seeking him. 
One sheep had gone astray, he found it and brought it home 
upon his shoulders rejoicing. Was the sheep a necessity for 
the shepherd, or not rather the shepherd a necessity for the 
sheep? 

I am loth, you see, to reach the end of this Epistle, just because 
there is no theme on which I would fainer speak than charity; 
10 Ps 16:2. Luke 15.4!. 



328 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

and no other Scripture extols charity with greater warmth. For 
you there can be no sweeter matter of discourse, no food more 
healthful for your SQuls — but only if by good living you confirm 
in yourselves the gift of God. Be not unthankful for this won- 
drous grace of God — God, who, possessing one only-begotten 
Son, willed not that Son to be alone, but adopted us to be his 
brothers and share with him eternal hfe. 



NINTH HOMILY 
I John 4:17-21 

I. You will remember, my dear people, that we have still to 
treat and expound to you, as the Lord shall enable us, the last 
part of John’s Epistle. I have not forgotten my debt, and you 
should not forget to demand it of me. For that same charity 
which is the chief, if not the sole theme, of this Epistle, will make 
me most faithful m acknowledging my debt, and you most wel- 
come in demanding it. Most welcome in demanding: for de- 
mands are unpleasant, where there is not charity, but where 
there is, they are welcome; and for him on whom they are made, 
though they involve labour, yet the labour is lightened or even 
nullified by charity itself. Can we not see, even in dumb, un- 
reasoning creatures, where there is no spiritual charity but only 
one that belongs to the fleshly nature, with what eager insistence 
the mother’s milk is demanded by her little ones? Yet however 
rough be the suckling’s onset upon the udder, the mother likes 
it better than if there were no sucking, no demanding of the 
debt that charity admits. Indeed we often see the bigger calf 
butting with its head at the cow’s udders, and the mother’s body 
forced upward by the pressure, yet she will never kick her calf 
away, but if the young one be not there to suck, she will low for 
him to come to it. Of spiritual charity, the apostle says: “I have 
become little among you, like a nurse cherishing her children.” 1 
If such charity be in us, we cannot but love you when you press 
your demand upon us. Backwardness in you we do not love: 
it makes us afraid of the failing of your strength. 

The occurrence of certain set Lessons for the festal days, which 
we were obliged to read and discourse upon, has compelled us 
to leave for a time the text of our Episde; but now we are to 

1 I Thess. 2:7. 

329 



330 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

return to the course which was broken, and I ask your devout 
attention to what remains. 

2. ^‘Herein is love made perfect in us, that we may have 
confidence in the day of judgment; because, as he is, so are we 
m this world.” This tells us how every man may test the progress 
of charity in him — or rather his own progress in charity: for if 
charity is God, in God there can be neither progress nor regress; 
and charity is only said to make progress in you, inasmuch as 
you make progress in charity. Ask therefore how far you have 
progressed in charity, and listen to the answer of your heart, 
that you may know the measure of your progress. John has 
promised to show us how we may know it, saying: ^‘Herein is 
love made perfect in us.” Herein — ‘‘that we may have con- 
fidence in the day of judgment.” In every man that has con- 
fidence in the day of judgment, charity is made perfect. To have 
confidence in the day of judgment is not to fear its coming. 
There are men who do not believe in a day of judgment, and 
they cannot have confidence in a day which they do not believe 
will come. We can leave them aside: may God awaken them 
into life, but of the dead we will say nothing. They do not be- 
lieve in a coming day of judgment, and neither fear nor desire 
that in which they do not believe. But for any man that has 
begun to believe in a day of judgment, the beginning of belief 
is the beginning of fear. So long as he fears, he cannot have 
confidence in the day of judgment, and not yet is charity made 
perfect in him. Yet there is no cause for despair: where you see 
a beginning, why despair of the end? And fear itself is a begin- 
ning — as Scripture says: “The fear of the Lord is the beginning 
of wisdom.” 2 A man has begun to fear the day of judgment: 
let fear make him amend himself; let him keep watch against 
the sins that are his enemies; let him begin to renew the life 
within him, and as the apostle says, to “mortify his members 
that are upon the earth,” ^ The “members upon the earth” 
mean the spiritual things of wickedness, the “greediness and 
uncleanness” and the rest, which the text proceeds to recount. 
In the measure in which he that has begun to fear the day of 
judgment mortifies his members upon the earth, the heavenly 
members arise and gain strength. These heavenly members are 
all kinds of good works; and as they arise, the man begins to 
desire that which he was fearing. He feared lest Christ should 
come and find in him godlessness for condemnation: now he 
desires Christ’s coming, because he is to find godliness ready to 
2 Ps. ii: 10 . 3 Col 3 5 f. 



HOMILIES ON I JOHN 33I 

be crowned. When the soul has begun to long for Christ’s 
coming, the chaste soul that longs for the husband’s embrace, 
she forswears the adulterer, becommg inwardly virgin in the 
power of faith, hope, and chanty; and now she has confidence 
in the day of judgment: there is no inner conflict in her prayer, 
"Thy kingdom come,” He who fears the coming of God’s king- 
dom, must fear lest this prayer be heard; and it is a strange sort 
of prayer that fears to be heard. But he who prays in the con- 
fidence of charity, truly desires that the kingdom may come. 
And so, my brothers, do all that you can to train yourselves to 
long for the day of judgment. For the perfection of charity is 
attested only when a longing for that day has begun to arise. 
To long for it is to have confidence in it; and to have confidence 
in it is to have no alarm of conscience, in the charity that is 
perfect and pure. 

3. “Herein is his love made perfect in us, that we may have 
confidence in the day of judgment.” Wherefore shall we have 
confidence? “Because, as he is, so are we in this world.” The 
meaning of this is to be understood in reference to chanty itself. 
The Lord says in the gospel: “If ye love them that love you, 
what reward have you? Do not the publicans the same?” * Then 
he tells us what he would have us do. “But I say unto you. Love 
your enemies, and pray for them that persecute you.” And for 
the command to love our enemies, he gives us our pattern in 
God himself, saying: “that ye may be sons of your Father which 
is in heaven.” God loves his enemies, for God is he “who maketh 
his sun to rise on the good and the evil, and raineth upon the 
just and the unjust.” Thus the perfection to which God calls us 
is that of loving our enemies as he has loved his own; and so our 
confidence in the day of judgment is because, as he is, even so 
are we in this world. As he loves his enemies, making his sun to 
rise on the good and the evil, and raining upon the just and the 
unjust; so we, though we cannot give sun and rain to our 
enemies, may give them our tears when we pray for them, 

4. And now observe what the Epistle says about this very con- 
fidence. How are we to recognize the perfection of charity? 
“There is no fear in charity.” What then of the man who has 
begun to fear the day of judgment? If charity were perfect in 
him, he would not fear; for perfect charity would make perfect 
righteousness, and he would have no cause for fear: rather he 
would have cause for longing that wickedness pass away and 
God’s kingdom come. Therefore, “there is no fear in charity.” 

* Matt. 5 44 ff. 



AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


332 

But this is true, not of charity’s beginnings: ''perfect charity,” 
he continues, "casteth out fear.” Fear, then, may be a starting- 
point; for "the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom.” 
Fear, as it were, prepares the place for charity; but when char- 
ity has taken up its dwelling, the fear that prepared the place for 
it is expelled. As one grows, the other diminishes: as charity 
moves to the centre, fear is driven outside. The greater the 
charity, the lesser the fear: the lesser the charity, the greater the 
fear. But if there has been no fear, there is no way for charity to 
enter. When we sew a seam, the thread must be let in by the 
needle; the needle goes in first, but it must come out if the thread 
is to follow. So fear takes first hold upon the mind, but does not 
stay there, because the purpose of its entry was to let charity in. 
And once the quiet of fearlessness is established in the soul, what 
joy is ours, whether in this world or in the world to come! Even 
in this world, who shall harm us if we are filled with charity? 
Hear the apostle’s triumphant cry: "Who shall separate us from 
the charity of Christ? Shall tribulation, or distress, or persecu- 
tion, or hunger, or nakedness, or peril, or sword?” ^ And again, 
in the words of Peter: "And who is he that can harm you, if ye 
be followers of that which is good?” ^ 

"There is no fear in love: but perfect love casteth out fear; 
because fear hath torment.” The heart is tormented by con- 
sciousness of sins: justification has not yet come, there is that 
within which pricks and stings. So in the verses of the Psalm 
which speak of the perfecting of righteousness: "Thou hast 
turned for me my mourning into joy: thou hast stripped off my 
sackcloth, and girded me with gladness, so that my glory may 
sing unto thee, and my pricking is ended.” Pricldng is ended, 
when the goad of conscience is stilled. Fear is a goad; but you 
are not to fear, for charity enters, with healing for the wound of 
fear. The fear of God wounds like the surgeon’s knife: it cuts 
out the festering part, and seems to enlarge the wound. When 
there was festering in the body, the wound was smaller, but it 
was dangerous. The pain was not so sharp as now at the touch 
of the surgeon’s knife. The treating of it may hurt more than 
if it had no treatment; but the added pain in the application of 
the cure serves to end pain for good by the recovery of health. 
Therefore let fear take hold of your heart, that it may give an 
entry to charity: let the surgeon’s knife make way for the healing 
scar. Such is our Surgeon’s skill, that not even a scar may show: 
you have only to submit yourself to his hand. For if you are 
5 Rom. 8:35. I Peter 3; 13. ? Ps. 30. 1 1 f. 



HOMILIES ON I JOHN 333 

without fear, you will not be able to be justified. That is the 
word of Scnpture: “He that is without fear shall not be able 
to be justified.” 8 So there must needs first enter fear, by means 
of which chanty can come in. Fear is the remedy, charity is 
health. “He that feareth is not made perfect m love.” And that 
is because “fear hath torment,” hke the surgeon’s incision. 

5 . There is indeed another text which may seem to contra- 
dict this, if it be not rightly understood. We read in a certain 
passage of the Psalms: “the fear of the Lord is pure, enduring 
for ever and ever.” 9 That points us to an everlasting fear, that 
yet is pure. But if so, is there a contradiction to it in the words 
of our Epistle: “there is no fear in charity, but perfect charity 
casteth out fear”? Let us enquire of both these oracles of God. 
The Spirit that speaks is one, though there be two books, two 
mouths, two tongues. One and the same breath may blow two 
fiutes, and cannot one and the same Spirit fill two hearts and 
set two tongues in motion? But if two flutes, filled by one spirit, 
one breathing, may sound in harmony, is it possible that two 
tongues, moved by the Spirit of God, should be discordant? 
There must then here be some harmony, some concord, that 
demands a sympathetic ear. The Spirit of God has filled by his 
inspiration two hearts and two mouths, has moved two tongues: 
of one tongue we hear, “there is no fear in charity, but perfect 
charity casteth out fear”; of the other we hear, “the fear of the 
Lord is pure, enduring for ever and ever.” Well! Is there a dis- 
cord between the sounds? No: you must listen with care and 
observe the melody. Not for nothing does the word “pure” 
come in the one saying, and not in the other: there must be one 
kind of fear that is caUed pure, and another kind that is not. 
Let us distinguish these two fears, and then we may grasp the 
harmony of the fiutes. How shall we do this? Listen, my people. 
There are men who fear God because they fear to be cast into 
hell, to bum with the devil in everlasting fire. This is the fear 
that makes an opening for charity; but it enters only to go out 
again. If as yet it is the thought of punishment that makes you 
fear God, not yet do you love him whom so you fear: you are not 
longing for good things, you are but apprehensive of evil. But 
that very apprehension leads you to amend yourself, and so to 
begin to long for the good things; and when you begin to do 

8 Ecclesiasticus i : 22. The text has. “Unrighteous anger shall not be able 
to be justified.” Ai;^ustine may be quotmg from memory as often: the 
context in Ecclesiasticus is “the fear of the Lord.” 

9 Ps. ig-g. 



334 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

that, the pure fear will arise in you — the fear of losing what is 
good. It is one thing, you see, to fear God, lest he send you to 
hell with the devil: it is another, to fear God, lest he depart 
from you. The first fear is not yet pure, for it comes not of the 
love of God but of the fear of punishment. But when you fear 
God lest his presence leave you, you are embracing him, and 
longing to enjoy him. 

6. The diference between these two fears — the one which 
charity casts out, and the other pure and enduring for ever — - 
may best be shown by thinking of two married women, differing 
in character. Suppose one of these two to be drawn towards 
adultery, to take pleasure in the wicked desire, but to fear the 
judgment of her husband. She fears her husband, but this fear 
comes of her still loving wickedness; to her the husband’s pre- 
sence is not welcome but burdensome; and if she does live in 
sin, she fears her husband’s coming. (Of such are they who fear 
the coming of the day of judgment.) Suppose the other to love 
her husband, to own her duty to him in pure embraces, never 
admitting a stain of infidelity upon her thoughts. This one will 
long for her husband’s presence, yet there will be fear in her no 
less than in the other. How are the two fears to be distinguished? 
You may put the same question to both of them: “Do you fear 
for your husband?” Both will answer: “I do” — the same words, 
but with a different meaning: for if you go on to ask “Why?”, 
the one will say: “I am afraid of his coming,” and the other: 
“I am afraid of his going away.” One says: “I fear to be found 
guilty,” the other: “I fear to be left alone.” Now apply this to 
the mind of the Christian, and you will find the fear that charity 
casts out, and the other pure fear that endures for ever and 
ever. 

7. Let us then address ourselves first to those who fear God 
with the fear of the woman who finds pleasure in wickedness, 
fearing her husband’s judgment on her guilt. “Soul,” we will 
say, “thou that fearest God for his judgment, as the woman 
who finds pleasure in wickedness fears her husband: if such a 
woman be misliking to thee, mislike thyself. Would you have 
your own wife fear you for that reason? Would you not rather 
she were chaste for love of you and not for fear? Then show 
yourself to God as you would that your wife should be to you. 
Pray God to look upon you, and turn his face from your sins. 
There is only one way of deserving that God’s face be turned 
from your sins, and that is never to turn your own face from 
them. You have the very words in the Psalm: “For I confess my 



HOMILIES ON I JOHN 335 

wickedness, and my sin is ever before me/’^o Do you make con- 
fession, and God will pardon, 

8. Such is our address to that soul in which is still the fear 
that does not endure for ever and ever, but is shut out and ban- 
ished by charity. Let us speak now to that other soul which 
possesses already the pure fear, enduring for ever and ever. Gan 
we suppose that this soul is to be found and addressed? Is there 
such, do you think, among our people? In this church? In this 
whole earth? Such there must be, though unseen. It is winter, 
but within there is freshness and vigour at the root. Maybe our 
words will reach that soul’s ears; but wherever it be, I would 
fain come upon it, and rather than have it listen to me, lend it 
my own ears. It should teach me rather than learn of me. A holy 
soul, all aflame with longing for God’s kingdom, it shall hear 
not me but God himself speaking to it, and comforting its 
patient sojourn on this earth with words like these: “Already 
thou wouldest I should come, and I know that thou wouldest 
it: I know what thou art, that thou mayest await my coming 
with confidence. I know that the waiting is irksome to thee: yet 
wait the rather, and be patient; I come, and I come quickly.” 
Yet to the lover it seems slow. You may hear that soul’s yearning 
song, like a lily among the thorns — hear her sighs: “I will make 
music with understanding in the unspotted way: when wilt thou 
come unto me?” But in the unspotted way there is no need for 
fearing; because perfect charity casteth out fear. Yet even when 
she has reached the embrace of her beloved, she will fear, 
though without anxiety. She will take heed and watch against 
her iniquity, lest she fall again into sin: fearing, not to be cast 
into hell fire, but to be left by him alone. So there will be in her 
the “pure fear that endure th for ever and ever.” 

Such is the music, the harmonious music, of our two flutes. 
Both tell of a kind of fear; but one tells of the soul’s fear of judg- 
ment, the other of the soul’s fear of desertion. One is the fear 
which charity excludes; the other is the fear that endures for 
ever and ever. 

9. “We are to love, because he first loved us,” How indeed 

should we love, had he not first loved us? Through loving we 
have become friends; but it was as enemies that he loved us, in 
order that we might be made friends. He first loved us, and 
bestowed on us the power to love him. As yet we loved him not: 
through loving we are made fair. An ugly and^ misshapen man 
may love a beautiful woman, or an ugly and misshapen woman 
10 Ps. 51:3. 11 Ps. ioi:i f. 



336 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

of dull complexion may love a handsome man; but love can 
make beautiful neither the man nor the woman. The man lo^'es 
a fair woman and when he looks on himself in the glass, he is 
ashamed to raise his face to the beauty of her whom he loves. 
He can do nothing to make himself beautiful: if he waits for 
beauty to come to Mm, waiting will make him old and his face 
plainer. There is nothing he can do, no advice you can give 
him but to restrain his passion and venture no more to set his 
love upon an unequal match: if he loves and would marry a 
wife, he must desire modesty in her and not physical charm. 
But our soul, my brethren, is ugly through its iniquity: through 
loving God it is made fair. What manner of love is this, that 
transforms the lover into beauty ! God is ever beautiful, never 
ugly, never changing. He that is ever beautiful, he first loved 
us — and loved none that were not ugly and misshapen. Yet 
the end of his love was not to leave us ugly, but to transform us, 
creating beauty in place of deformity. And how shall we win 
this beauty, but through loving him who is ever beautiful? 
Beauty grows in you with the growth of love; for charity itself 
is the soul’s beauty. “We are to love, because he first loved us.” 

10. “If any man say, I love God” . . . Ask anyone you will 
to tell you if he loves God' he will make loud profession, “I do 
love God, God knows it!” But there is another matter on which 
he may be questioned. “If any man says, I love God, and hateth 
his brother, he is a liar.” Why is he a liar? Because “he that 
loves not his brother whom he sees, how can he love God whom 
he sees not?” Does it then follow that he who loves his brother 
loves God also? Of necessity he must love God: of necessity he 
must love love itself. He cannot love his brother and not love 
love: he cannot help loving love. And if he loves love, he needs 
must love God: in loving love, he is loving God.!!® You cannot 
have forgotten the words that came a httle earlier: “God is 
love.” If God is love, whoever loves love, loves God. Therefore 
love your brothef, and have no other care. You cannot say, 
I love my brother, but not God. Just as to say, “I love God,” 
when you do not love your brother, is to lie; so when you say, 
“I love my brother,” you are deceived, if you imagine that you 
do not love God. You love your brother, and must needs love 
love itself; but love is God; therefore whoever loves his brother 
must needs be loving God. 

If you do not love the brother whom you see, how can you 
love God whom you do not see ? Why does a man not see God ? 
no Cf. the same argument in De Tnn., VIII. 10 (vii) ff. 



HOMILIES ON I JOHN 337 

Because he has not love. He has not love because he does not 
love his brother; and it follows that the reason for his not seeing 
God is that he has not love. If he had love, he must see God; 
for God IS love. By love the heart’s eye must continually be 
cleansed and strengthened for the sight of that changeless Being, 
in whose presence the lover may ever delight, and enjoy it in 
the society of angels unto all eternity. But now he must run his 
course, so that one day he may rejoice in his true fatherland. 
He may not love his pilgrimage or the way along it. Nothing 
may be sweet to him save the God who calls us, until the day 
that we cleave fast to him, saying with the psalmist: ‘Thou hast 
destroyed all them that commit fornication against thee.” 12 
The fornicators against him are they that turn aside and love 
the world. Your part is told you in the verse that follows: “for 
me it is good to cleave fast unto God.” That is my whole good, 
to cleave unto God, looking for nought else. If you ask, “Why 
cleave to God?”, and a man should say “For that which he will 
give me,” ask him again what God will give him. God made the 
heaven, God made the earth: what is there for him to give you? 
If already you cleave fast to him, what better thing can you 
find? If you could, he would give it. 

II. “He that loves not his brother whom he sees, how can he 
love God whom he sees not? And this commandment we have 
from him, that he who loves God, love his brother also.” Proudly 
you spoke the word, “I love God” — and you hate your brother! 
Murderer that you are, how can you love God? Did you not 
hear earlier in the Epistle, that “he that hateth his brother is a 
murderer” ? “Indeed, indeed,” you say, “I love God, though I 
hate my brother.” Indeed, indeed, if you hate your brother you 
do not love God. Let me prove it by another text: again we read 
that “He gave us a commandment that we should love one 
another.” Can you love him whose commandment you hate? 
Can anyone say, “I love the emperor, but I hate his laws”? It 
is by the observation of his laws, published through his empire, 
that the emperor is aware of your love for him. Our emperor’s 
law is this: “A new commandment give I unto you, that ye love 
one another.” You say you love Christ: then keep his com- 
mandment and love your brother. If you do not love your 
brother, how can you love him whose commandment you 
despise? 

My brothers, I can never tire of speaking in Christ’s name of 
charity. The more you covet possession of it, the more (I hope) 
12 Ps. 73 : 27 f. 13 I John 3 ; 23. w John 13 : 34. 



338 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

will charity itself grow within you, casting out fear, so that there 
remain the pure fear that endures for ever and ever. Let us bear 
this world, bear all its afflictions, bear the offences of our temp- 
tations. Let us never go back on our journeying; let us hold to 
the Church’s unity, hold to Christ, hold to charity. Let us not 
be sundered from the members of his Bride, nor sundered from 
the faith, that we may make our boast in his presence; and so 
we shall abide safe in him — ^in this present time by faith, and in 
the time to come by sight, whereof in the gift of the Holy Spirit 
we have so sure a pledge. 



TENTH HOMILY 


I John 5:1-3 


I. Those of you who were present yesterday will remember, no 
doubt, the place our exposition has reached in the course of this 
Epistle. “He that loveth not his brother whom he sees, how can 
he love God whom he does not see? And this commandment we 
have from him, that he who loves God, love his brother also.” 
That was the verse at which we ended: now let us see what comes 


next. 

“Every one that believeth that Jesus is the Christ, is bom of 
God.” Who is the man that does not believe that Jesus is the 
Christ? He that does not live as Christ commanded. There are 
many that say, “I believe” ; but faith without works cannot save. 
The work of faith is love, according to the apostle Paul’s saying: 
“Faith which worketh through love.” 1 That is the faith that 
Jesus is the Christ, as it is believed by Christians who are such not 
in n^TTip only but in deed and in life. It is not as the devils be- 
lieve: they believe, as Scripture says, and tremble. 2 One might 
suppose that devils’ faith could go no further than the confes- 
sion: “We know who thou art, the Son of God.”^ What the 
devils said was what Peter said. When the Lord asked who he 
was and what men called him, the disciples answered: “Some 
call thee John the Baptist, others Elias, others Jeremias or one 
of the prophets.”'* And when he asked again: “And whom say 
ye that I am?”— Peter answered and said: “Thou art the Christ, 
the Son of the living God.” Then came the Lord’s saying to him: 
“Blessed art thou, Simon Bar-Jona; for flesh and blood hath not 
revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven. See 
what commendation is given to this faith of Peter s: Thou art 


1 Gal. 5 : 26. 

3 Matt. 8 : 19. 


2 James 2:19. 
Matt. 16.13 fF. 
339 



AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


340 

Peter, and upon this rock will I build my church.” ‘^Upon 
this rock” means “Upon this faith,” ^ upon the saying: “Thou 
art the Christ, the Son of the hving God.” ^‘Upon this rock,” 
says the Lord, “I will build my church.” A high commendation 
indeed! Thus Peter says: “Thou art the Christ, the Son of the 
living God”; and the devils say: “We know who thou art, the 
Son of God, the Holy One of God.” What Peter says, the devils 
say also: the words are the same, but not the thought. Peter’s 
words, we may be sure, were spoken with love; for love goes 
with the Christian’s faith, but not with the devils’. For Peter’s 
words were meant to embrace the Christ, the devils’ were 
meant to make him depart from them. For before saying, “We 
know who thou art, thou art the Son of God,” they had said: 
“What have we to do with thee? Why art thou come before the 
time to destroy us?” It is one thing to confess Christ in order 
that you may hold to him: another thing to confess Christ in 
order that you may thrust him from you. You see then that the 
words of our text, “He that believeth,” denote a faith of a special 
kind, not the faith that may be held by many. Therefore, my 
brothers, let no heretic say to you, “We also believe.” I have 
given you the example of the devils, that you may examine the 
deeds of men’s lives before rejoicing at the words of their belief. 

Let us see then what is meant by belief in Christ, by belief 
that Jesus is the Christ. Our text goes on: “Every one that be- 
lieveth that Jesus is the Christ, is born of God.” But what does 
this belief mean? “And eveiy one that loveth him that begat 
him, loveth him that is begotten of him.” With faith the 
apostle straightway conjoins love; for without love faith is vain. 
The Christian’s faith has love together with it: the devils’ faith 
is loveless. Those who do not believe at all are in worse state 
than the devils, falling behind them in apprehension. The man 
who will not believe in Christ has not come so far as to do what 
the devils do. He may reach the point of believing, yet still hate 
him in whom he believes: the confession of his faith being 
through fear of punishment, not love for the offered prize; and 
now he is like the devils who dreaded the punishment in store 
for them. To such faith love must be added, so that it becomes 
the faith that Paul describes, the “faith that worketh through 
love”; and then you will have the Christian, the citizen of 

5 In Retr., I? 21, Augustine refers to two other interpretations of the text 
which he has given* one, that the “rock” is Peter, another that the ‘‘rock” 
is Christ. Between these two, he invites the reader to choose which he 
thinks the “more probable.” 



HOMILIES ON I JOHN 34I 

Jerusalem and fellow-citizen of angels, the pilgrim toiling 
eagerly on his way. Join him, for he is your good comrade, 
travel with him — if only you be what he is. 

3 . “Every one that loveth him that begat him, loveth him 
that is begotten of him. Hereby we know that we love the sons 
of God.” What does this mean, my brothers? The apostle has 
just spoken of the Son of God, not of sons: the one Christ was 
set forth for our contemplation in the words, “Every one that 
believeth that Jesus is the Christ is born of God; and every one 
that loveth him that begat” — that is, the Father — “loveth him 
that is begotten of him” — that is, his Son our Lord Jesus Christ. 
And he goes on: “hereby we know that we love the sons of God.” 
We should have expected: “Hereby we know that we love the 
Son of God.” But John, having just spoken of the Son of God, 
now speaks of God’s sons. It is because the sons of God are the 
Body of God’s only Son; because he is Head, and we are 
members, the Son of God is still one. Therefore to love the 
sons of God is to love the Son of God; to love the Son of God 
is to love the Father; none can love the Father unless he love 
the Son; and he that loves the Son, loves also the sons of 
God. These sons of God are the members of God’s Son; and 
he that loves them, by loving becomes himself a member: 
through love he becomes a part of the structure of Christ’s 
Body. And thus the end will be the one Christ, loving himself; 
for the love of the members for one another is the love of the 
Body for itself.^ “If one member suffer, all the members suffer 
with it; and if one member have glorying, all the members 
rejoice with it.” '7 On which the apostle concludes: “Now ye 
are the body of Christ, and members of him.” So John, 
speaking a little earlier of brotherly love, has said: “He that 
loveth not his brother whom he sees, how can he love God 
whom he sees not?” If you love your brother, can it be said 
that you do so and yet do not love Christ? Impossible — ^when 
it is Christ’s members that you love. Loving the members of 
Christ, you are loving Christ; loving Christ, you are loving the 
Son of God; loving the Son of God, you are loving the Father. 
There can be no separation of love: you may choose for yourself 
what you will love, and all the rest will follow. You may say, “I 
love God only, God the Father.” That is not true. If you love 
him, you cannot love him only: if you love the Father, you are 

« This celebrated passage is the crown of Augustine’s doctrine of the unity 
of Christ and his Church. 

7 I Cor. 12:26 f. 



AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


342 

loving the Son also. Suppose you grant that, and say, “I love 
the Father and I love the Son, but nothing more: God the 
Father, and God the Son, our Lord Jesus Christ, who has 
ascended into heaven and sits on the right hand of the Father, 
the Word through whom all things were made, the Word that 
was made flesh and dwelt among us: I love nothing more.” That 
is not true. If you love the Head, you love the members: if you 
do not love the members, neither do you love the Head. How 
can you not tremble at the voice of the Head, crying from 
heaven on the members* behalf: “Saul, Saul, w% persecutest 
thou me”?* The persecutor of his members he called the per- 
secutor of himself: that was to call the lover of his members the 
lover of himself. And who are his members, my brethren, you 
know — ^they are none other than the Church of God. 

“Hereby we know that we love the sons of God, because we 
love God.” How so? Are not the sons of God a different thing 
from God? Yes, but he who loves God, loves his commandments; 
and what are they? “A new commandment give I unto you, 
that ye love one another.” None may make one love an excuse 
from another. Christian love is altogether of one piece, and as 
itself is compacted into a unity, so it makes into one all that are 
linked to it, like a flame fusing them together. The lump of gold 
is fused in the furnace, and a single object is made of it; but un- 
less the fire of charity is kindled, there can be no fusing of the 
many into one. 

4. We are told, flien, how we may know that we love the 
sons of God. It is “because we love God, and keep his com- 
mandments.” We are troubled and wearied by the ^fficulty of 
keeping God’s commandment. But listen! Friend, you go 
through ton and labour, for the love of what? Of avarice. That 
love must bring toil to the lover: there is no toil in the love of 
God. Avarice will enjoin upon you the endurance of labours, 
dangers, wear and tear and troubles; and you will obey, but to 
what purpose? To gain the wherewithal to fill your purse, and 
to lose your peace of mind. Peace of mind, I dare say, you had 
more before you were rich than after you began to be wealthy. 
See what avarice has charged you with: a houseful of goods, and 
the fear of thieves; gain of money, and loss of sleep. There is 
what avarice bade you do, and you have done it. And what is 
God’s charge? “Love me! You may love money and go after it, 
yet maybe not find it. Whoever seeks me, I am with him. You 
may love place and position: maybe you will never attain to 

* Acts 9:4. 



HOMILIES ON I JOHN 343 

them. No man has ever loved me and failed of my attaining. 
You would have a patron or a powerful friend, and you must 
go about to approach him by way of some inferior. Love me 
(God says to you); I have not to be approached through any 
go-between: love itself sets you in my presence.” My brothers, 
fiiere can be no sweetness greater than such love. Much to the 
point are the words of the Psalm you have just heard: “The un- 
righteous have spoken to me of delights; but not as thy law, O 
Lord.” ^ The law of God is God’s commandment, and God’s 
commandment is that new commandment, called new because 
it gives renewal: “A new commandment give I unto you, that 
ye love one another.” That this is indeed the law of God is con- 
firmed by the apostle’s saying: “Bear ye one another’s burdens, 
and so shall ye fulfil the law of Christ.” That is the consum- 
mation of all our works — ^love. There is the end, for which and 
unto which we run our course: when we reach it we shaU have 


rest. 


7. “For this is the love of God, that we keep his command- 
ments.” You have heard the saying: “On these two command- 
ments hang all the law and the prophets.” — ^You are spared 
the turning from one Scripture page to another. “On these two 
commandments”: and they are: “Thou shalt love the Lord thy 
God with all thy heart and aU thy soul and all thy mind,” and 
“Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself.” These are the com- 
mandments of which the whole of our Epistle speaks. Hold fast 
then to love, and set your minds at rest. You need not fear 
doing ill to anyone; for who can do any ill to the person whom 
he loves? Love, and you cannot but do well. You may rebuke, 
but that will be the act of love, not of harshness: you may use 
the rod, but it will only be for discipline; for the love of love 
itself will not suffer you to pass over the lack of discipline in 
another. Sometimes there is a kind of contrariness apparent in 
the products of hatred and of love: hatred may use fair words 
and love may sound harshly. A man may hate his enemy, and 
pretend friendship towards him: he may commend him when 
he sees him do wrong; for he welcomes his thoughtlessness, he is 
glad to see him rush headlong in pursuit of his desires, where he 
may fall beyond hope of recovery. He will, in the words of the 
Psalm, “commend the sinner in the desires of his soul”; 12 he 


will smooth his going with the oil of flattery — ^hating, yet com- 
mending. Another, seeing his friend do the like, wiU call him 

5 Ps. 119:85. 10 Gal. 6*2. 

11 Matt. 22:37 ff. 12 Ps. 10:3. 


^ ( 




AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 


344 

back; and if the friend will not hear, he may use the language of 
reproof, he may denounce, he may even prosecute; for sometimes 
things may come to the point where there is no avoiding an 
action at law.^^ Thus we may see hatred speaking softly, and 
charity prosecuting; but neither soft speeches nor harsh re- 
proofs are what you have to consider. Look for the spring, 
search out the root from which they proceed. The fair words of 
the one are designed for deceiving, the prosecution of the other 
is aimed at reformation. 

My brothers, it is not for my preaching to work the enlarge- 
ment of your hearts. Ask God that you may love one another, 
and he will grant it. You are to love all men, even your enemies 
— not because they are your brothers, but in order that they may 
be; so that brotherly love may ever burn within you, whether 
for him who is already a brother, or for your enemy, that love 
may turn him into one. Wherever you love a brother, you love 
a friend. Perhaps he stands already with you, linked to you 
already in the catholic unity of the Church: if his life accords 
with it, he whom you love is already a brother and not an 
enemy. Or if your love is given to one who has not yet believed 
in Christ, or who has beheved only as the devils believe, you 
will reprove his folly: you will love him, and with a brotherly 
love, for though he is not yet a brother, the aim of your love is 
that he may be made one. Thus all our brotherly love is love 
for Christian people, for all the members of Christ. The learning 
of charity, my brothers, its vigour, its flowers, its fruit, its 
beauty, its pleasantness, its sustenance, its drink, its food, its 
loving embraces — all these can never cloy. And if God grants 
us such delights upon our pilgrimage, what joys await us in our 
homeland! 

8. So, my brothers, let us make haste: let us make haste, and 
love the Christ. That Christ is Jesus; and who is he? The Word 
of God. The manner of his coming to our sick world is that “the 
word was made flesh, and dwelt among us.’’^^ Thus has the 
prophecy of Scripture been fulfilled: “it behoved Christ to 
suffer, and to rise again the third day from the dead.’’ 1 5 Where 
is the place of his Body? Where do his members carry on their 
labouring? and where must you be, to have over you the Head? 
“. . . and that repentance and remission of sins should be 
preached in his name throughout all nations, beginning at 
Jerusalem.” There must your charity spread itself abroad. The 

13 Augustine has the Donatists m mind, see Introduction, p. 256 f, 

14 John 1:14. Luke 24*46 f. 



HOMILIES ON I JOHN 345 

word of Christ, the word of the Psalm, that is, of God’s Spirit, 
proclaims: “Thy commjindment is exceeding broad.” And there 
are men who set the boundary of charity in Africa If you 
would love Christ, stretch out your charity over all the world: 
for Christ’s members are spread the world over. If your love is 
for a part only, you are sundered: if sundered, you are not in the 
Body: if not in the Body, you are not under the Head. There is 
no profit in the faith of a blasphemer: you would worship him 
in Ae Head and you blaspheme him in the Body. He loves his 
Body: you may sever yourself firom the Body of Christ, but the 
Head cannot be severed from his own Body. “In vain do you 
honour me,” cries the Head fi:om above you, “in vain do you 
honour me.” Imagine one that would kiss your head and 
trample on your feet — crushing your feet with nailed boots, yet 
seeking to embrace your head and kiss it. Would you not break 
through the speech of pretended honour with the cry, “What 
are you about, sir? You are trampling on me!” You would not 
say, “You trample on my head,” for honour was being done to 
your head; but that head would make protest more for the 
trampled members, than acknowledge the honour done to itself. 
Would not the head itself cry out, “I want none of your 
honouring! cease to trample on me!” You may answer if you 
wiU, “Where is the trampling?”: you may tell the head you 
sought to kiss it, to embrace it. But have you not sense to see 
that what you seek to embrace is all of a piece in structural unity 
with that on which you trample? You honour me above, you 
trample me below! and the pain of this exceeds the pleasure of 
that, for the honoured head suffers for the trampled feet. The 
tongue will exclaim, “That hurts me!” — not “That hurts my 
foot,” but “That hurts me.” No use to ask the tongue who 
touched it, who struck it, pricked it or stabbed it. The answer is, 
No one: but it is linked to those parts that suffer trampling, and 
how should it not suffer pain, when there is no separation be- 
tween it and them? 

9. Our Lord Jesus Christ, at his ascension into heaven on the 
fortieth day, commended his body to lie on the earth where he 
had worn it; and he did so, because he saw that many would 
pay him honour for his ascension, and that their honouring 
must be vain if they tread under foot his members upon earth. 
And to forestall the ntiisprision of worshipping the Head in 
heaven while trampling the feet upon earth, he declared where 
his members should be found. Before his ascension he spoke his 

16 Donatists. 



346 AUGUSTINE*. LATER WORKS 

last words — the last he was to speak on earth. The Head, ready 
to ascend into heaven, commended his members upon earth, 
and then departed. From that time you will not find Christ 
speaking on earth: he will speak indeed, but it will be from 
heaven. And then, what will be the cause of his so speaking? It 
will be because his members were being trod down upon earth. 
To Saul the persecutor he spoke from on high: ‘'Saul, Saul, why 
persecutest thou me?”!'? have ascended into heaven, but still 
I lie upon earth. Here I sit on the Father’s right hand; but there 
still I hunger and thirst, and go a stranger.” — In what way, 
then, did he before ascending commend his Body to us? When 
the disciples asked him: “Lord, wilt thou show thyself at this 
tinfe, and when shall be the Mngdom of Israel?”, he an- 
swered, on the point of his departure: “It is not yours to know 
the time which the Father hath set in his own power; but ye 
shall receive the virtue of the Holy Spirit, coming down upon 
you, and ye shall be my witnesses” . . . (see now the spreading 
abroad of his Body, the region wherein he will not have men 
trample on him) . . . “ye shall be my witnesses in Jerusalem, 
and into all Judaea, and Samaria, and to the ends of the whole 
earth:” — “This is where I who now ascend shall yet lie. I 
ascend because I am the Head: my Body yet lies here below. 
And where? Even through the whole earth.” — Take heed, 
then, lest you strike that Body, lest you do despite to it, lest you 
trample upon it: for those are Christ’s last words on the eve of 
his going into heaven. Have in your mind’s eye a sick man, lying 
at home in his bed, wasted with illness, near to death, breathing 
hard, his soul at his very lips. Suppose it chances that the thought 
of something dear to him, greatly beloved, comes into his mind; 
and he calls for his heirs and says to them: “Do this, I pray you.” 
He struggles to keep the soul within him until those words are 
clearly spoken and confirmed; and when he has so spoken his 
last, he breathes away his life, and his body is borne to the 
grave. Will not his heirs hold fast the memory of the dying man’s 
last words? If any man should come and say to them, “Don’t 
do it!” — ^what will they answer? “Not do that which my father 
charged me with his last breath — the thing that last sounded in 
my ears as my father left this world? However it be with any 
other words of his, those last words bind me in a special degree; 
for after them I never saw him or heard him speak again.” 

My brothers, think, as you have Christian hearts: if the words 
of a man on his way to the grave are so sweet, so welcome, of 
17 Acts 9*4. 18 Acts 1 : 6 ff. 



HOMILIES ON I JOHN 347 

such weighty moment, to his heirs, what must be to the heirs 
of Christ the last words of him who was leaving them, not to 
return to the grave but to ascend into heaven! For the man who 
has lived and died, his soul is carried elsewhere while his body is 
laid in the earth: it matters not to him whether those last words 
of his are performed or not; quite other now are his doings, or 
his sufferings. Either he rejoices in Abraham’s bosom, or in 
eternal fire he longs for a drop of water; and his dead body lies 
unfeeling in the grave. Yet his last dying words are faithfully 
observed. For what then can men look, who pay no observance 
to the last words of him who sits in heaven, loolang from above 
to see whether they be contemned, or not contemned — the 
words of him who said: “Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me?”, 
who lays up for judgment all that he sees his members suffer? 

10. And yet such men say, “What have we done? It is we 
who have suffered persecution, not inflicted it.”i^ Unhappy 
men, you are the persecutors — ^persecutors above all because 
you have divided the Church! The sword of the tongue is more 
powerful than any blade of steel. Hagar, Sarah’s maid, was 
proud; and because of her pride she was afflicted by her mis- 
tress. That was discipline, not punishment. And so when she 
had gone away from her mistress, what did the angel bid her? 
“Return unto thy mistress.” 20 Even so you, carnal souls like 
that proud maid-servant, have no cause for your fury, though 
you may for discipline’s sake have suffered some vexation. 
Return to your mistress, keep the Lord’s peace. The Gospels 
are set out, we read of where the Church extends: you argue 
against us and call us “betrayers.” 21 What then have we be- 
trayed? Christ commends to you his Church, and you will not 
beheve him: am I to believe your mahgmng of my forefathers? 
If you would have me believe your story of “betrayers,” do you 
first believe the Christ. Which is the chiefer authority? Christ 
is God, you are men: which most deserves belief? Christ has 
spread his Church over the whole world: if it were I that said 
so, you might disregard it; but when the Gospel speaks, you 
should take heed. And what says the Gospel? “It behoved 
Christ to suffer and rise again the third day from the dead, and 
that repentance and forgiveness of sins should be preached in 
his name.” 22 Where there is forgiveness of sins, there is the 

19 See Introduction, p. 256. 20 Gen. i6*4fF 

21 The Donatist charge against the Catholics as all tainted with traditw, 
the surrendering of the Scriptures. 

22 Luke 24-47. 



348 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

Church. If you ask why, it was to the Church that the word was 
spoken: ‘‘I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of 
heaven; and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth shall be 
loosed in heaven, and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth shall 
be loosed in heaven, and whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth 
shall be bound in heaven.” 23 Where then is this forgiveness of 
sins extended? ‘‘Throughout all nations, beginning at Jeru- 
salem.” There is Christ’s word for you to believe. But you know 
well that if you believed Christ, you could have nothing to say 
about the “betrayers”; and so you would have me believe your 
slanderings of my fathers rather than yourself believe the 
promises of Christ. 24 

23 Matt. 16:19. Here the Homilies end in all surviving MSS. 



SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY 


A. Histories 

Duchesne, L., Histoire anctenne de V£gltse» Paris, Vol. II (4th ed.), 
1910; Vol. Ill (5th ed.), igisS. (English Translation: London, 
John Murray, 1912, 1914.) 

Fliche, A., and Martin, V., Histoire de V£glise depuis les origines 
jusqu'd nos jours. Paris, Vol. Ill, 1947; Vol. IV, 1948. (English 
Translation: London, Burns Oates, 1951-.) 

Harnack, A., Lehrbuch der Dogmengesckzchte. Tubingen, Vol. Ill (4th 
ed.), 1910. (English Translation: London, Williams and Nor- 
gate, Vol. V, 1898.) 

Kidd, B. J., A History of the Church to A.D. 461. Oxford, Vols II and 
III, 1922. 

Monceaux, P., Histoire Littiraire de VAfnque chretienne depuis les 
ongines jusqu^ d Vmvasion arabe. Paris, Vols. IV-VII, 1912-1923. 

Tixeront, J., Histoire des Dogmes. Paris, Vol. II (9th ed.), 1931. 
(English Translation: B. Herder Book Co., U.S.A., 1930.) 

B. General 

Bardy, G., Saint Augustin: Vhomme et V oeuvre. Paris (6th ed.), 1946. 

Burnaby, J., Amor Dev a study of the religion of St. Augustine. London, 
Hodder and Stoughton, 1938. Reprinted 1947. 

Cayre, F., Les Sources de V Amour Dimn: la divine presence d^apres Saint 
Augustin. Paris, 1933. 

Cochrane, C. N., Christianity and Classical Culture: a study of thought 
and action from Augustus to Augustine. Oxford, 1940. 

Gilson, E., Introduction d V etude de Saint Augustin. Paris, 1929, 

Loofs, F., art. “Augustinus,” in Realencyclopadie fur protestantische 
Theologie und Kirche. Leipzig, 1896. 

Marrou, H. I., Saint Augustin et la Fin de la Culture antique. Paris, 
1938; Retractation,^^ 1949* 

A Monument to Saint Augustine — ^by various writers. London, Sheed 
& Ward, 1934. 


349 



350 AUGUSTINE: LATER WORKS 

Pope, H., Saint Augustine of Hippo. London, Sands, 1937. 

Portalie, E., art. ‘'Saint Augustin,’’ in Dictionnaire de Theologie 
Cathohque, Paris, 1909. 

C. De Trimtate 

Barion, J., Plotin und Augustinus: Untersuchungen zum Gottes-problem, 
Berlin, 1935. 

Cay re, F., Za Contemplation Augustmienne. pnnctpes de la Spmtualite de 
Saint Augustin. Paris, 1927. 

Chevalier, L, Saint Augustin et la Pensee Grecque: les relations 
Tnnitaires. La Theorie Augustinienne des relations Tnmtaires. Col- 
lectanea Friburgensia. Fnbourg, 1940. 

Dahl, A., Augustin und Plotin: philosophische Untersuchungen zum 
Tnmtatsproblem und zur Muslehre. Lund, 1945. 

Gardeil, A., La Structure de VAme et VExperience Mystique. 2 vols, 
Paris, 1927. 

Grabmann, M., Die Grundgedanken des hi. Augustinus uber Seek und 
Gott. Koln, 1929. 

Hodgson, L., The Doctrine of the Trinity. London, Nisbet, 1943. 
Morgan, W., The Psychological Teaching of St. Augustine. London, 
Elliot Stock (n,d.). 

Schmaus, M , Die Psychologische Trinitatslehre des hi. Augustinus. 
Munster, 1927. 

St. Thomas Aquinas. Summa Theologica^ I, qq. xxvii-xliii, xciii. 
(English Translation by Fathers of the English Dominican 
Province: London, Washbourne, 1911-.) 

Webb, C. C. J., God and Personality. London, Allen & Unwin, 1918. 

D. De Spmtu et Littera 

de Plinval, G., Pelage, ses £lcrits, sa Vie, et sa Reforme. Lausanne, 1943. 
Dinkier, E., Die Anthropologie Augustins. Stuttgart, 1934. 

Jonas, H., Augustin und das Paulimsche Freiheits-problem. Gottingen, 

1930- 

Mausbach, J., Die Ethik des hi. Augustinus. Freiburg-im-Breisgau, 
Vol. II, 1929. 

Oman, J., Giace and Personality. Cambridge (3rd ed.), 1925. 

Rondet, H., Gratia Christi: essai d^histoire du dogme et de theologie dog-- 
matique. Pans, 1948. 

St. Thomas Aquinas. Summa Theologica, la Ilae, qq. cvi-cxiv. 
Whitley, W. T. (ed.). The Doctrine of Grace. London, S.C.M. Press, 

1932. 

Williams, N. P., The Grace of God. London, Longmans, 1930. 

E. Tractatus in Epistolam Johannis Decern 

BatifFol, P., La Cathohcisme de Saint Augustin. Paris, 1920. 

Combos, G., La Charite d'^apres Saint Augustin. Pans, 1934. 



SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY 


351 


Frend, W. H. C., The Donatist Church. Oxford, 1952. 

Greenslade, S. L., Schism in the Early Church. London, S.C.M. Press, 

1953 - 

Hofmann, F., Der Kirchenbegriff des hi. Augustinus. Munchen, 1933. 
Le Landais, M., Etudes Augustimennes. Paris, 1953. 

Pontet, M., UExigese de Saint Augustin Predicateur. Paris, 1944. 
Sparrow-Simpson, W. J., Saint Augustine and African Church Divisions. 
London, Longmans, 1910. 

St. Thomas Aquinas. Summa Theologica^ Ha Ilae, qq. xxiii-xxxiii. 
Willis, G. G , Saint Augustine and the Donatist Controversy. London, 
S.P.C.K., 1950. 




INDEXES 


General 

Academy, the New, 124, 149 f. 

Action and contemplation, 29, 93 
Adam and Eve, 93 f. 

Alexandria, 17, 48, 64, loon 
Allegory, 142 f., 198 
Alypius, 288n 

Ambrose, Bishop of Milan, 19, 184, 
igBn 

Ammus and amma, 128 
Antichrist, meaning of, 279 ff. 
“Appropriation,” in Tnmtanan doc- 
trine, 159 f 

Aquinas, Thomas, 27 f. 

Arianism, I7f , 2i, i66n, I76n 
Aristotle, 27, 6on, 82n 
Arles, Council of, 252, 254 f. 

Athanasius, Bishop of Alexandria, 19, 
i66n, i67n, i76n 

Augustine, references to other works of 
Contra Academicos, i50n 
De Civitate Dei, 25, 66n, 86n, 23 in, 
232n 

CoT^essiones, 24, 41 n, 88n, i ion, i49n, 
2i2n, 287n 
De Decretis, 1 76n 

De Diversis Quaestiombm LXXXIII, 
276n 

De Diversis Qmestionibus ad Sim- 
plwmnum^ 190 

De Doctnna Christiana, 66n, 276n 
Enchiridion de fide, spe, et caritate, 400, 
ii8n, i74n, 242n 
Epistolae, 15, 288n 
De Gestis Pelagii, 191 
De Gratia Christi, 191 
De Gratia et Libero Arbitrio, 192 
In Joannis Evangelium Tractatus, I58n, 
I 76 n 

De Libero Arbitrio, 86n 
Contra Litteras Petiliani, 265n 


Index 

Contra Maximinum Anum, i^Sn 
De Natura et Gratia, 183, 190 
De Peccatorum Mentis et Remisswne, 
186 f, 246n 

De Peccato Origtnali, i86n 
De Praedestinatione Sanctorum, 2i2n 
Retractationes, 24 f, I50n, 192, 34on 
Sermones, 288n 
Soliloquia, 8on 
De Vera Religione, 24, 86n 
Aurelius, Bishop of Carthage, 13, 26 

Baptism, as “enhghtenment,” 292, 
of infants, 183 ff., 293; vahdity of, 

254 

Bibhcal texts, Augustine’s, 14 

Caecihan, Bishop of Carthage, 251, 254 
Caelestius, the Pelagian, 14, 185, 189 
Cam and Abel, 299 
Cappadocian Fathers, 18, 22, 32, i66n 
Carthage, 48, 64 f ; Conference of, 251, 
253, Council of, 232n 
Changelessness, of God, 21 
Chanty, 35, “of God,” 241, greatest of 
treasures, 317 f.; only mark of true 
Christian, 298, 315, perfection of, 
296 f , 300 f, and schism, 256, test of 
true faith, 310 ff, and the Tnnity, 
33» 52, 54» 1 57 welcomes demands, 

Child observation, 104 
Chnst, and his Church, unity of, 261, 
341; as Magister mtenor, 285; his 
Temptation, 277 
Christology, loon 

Church, the Body of Christ, i63n, 
341 f., 346, universality of, 266, 
2^ f , 271 f , 282, 344 ff. 

Cicero, 49n, Son, 99n, iiof., 112, 124 
353 



INDEXES 


354 

Gircumcellions, 253, 256, 30411 
Go-inherence, of mind, knowledge, and 
love, 63 

Gommandments, the two great, 50, 53, 

„ 343 

Goncupiscence, 35, 66 
Gonsent, to God’s calling, 190 ff., 245 
Gonstans, and Gonstantine, Emperors, 
252 

Gonsubstantiality, 18, 23, 26, 62 f. 
Gonversion, 43, 115, 119, 121 
Gorrection, and charity, 318, 343 f. 
Govenant, the New, 219 ff, 

Guriosity, 76, 99, 276 f. 

Gyprian, Bishop of Carthage, 184, 254 f. 

Decalogue, 213 ff 

Dehght, in righteousness, conferred by 
grace, 197, 215 f, 226,236 
Descartes, 86n 

Devil, overcome “justly,” 96, 164 
Donatism, 14, 251 ff, and Catholic- 
ism, 265 ff., 271 f., 281 f., 303, $ 11 , 

344 f-, 347 f* 

Donatus, 252, 272 

Ego, the human, 31, 169 
“Enigma,” 142 ff 
Essence, and existence, 21 
Eternal, and temporal, 93, 175 
Eunomius, the Arian, 166 f. 

Eusebius, Bishop of Caesarea, i66n 
Evodius, 15 

Faith, 22 f., 30, 95 f, 99 f., 240, false 
and true, 281 ff, 310 f., 339 f, and 
sight, 29 f, 100 ff, 292, and under- 
standing, 57 £, 129, 177 f., 225, the 
way to knowledge, 57, whether “m 
our power,” 237 ff. 

Fall, of man, 93 f, i i9n 
Fear, and love, 217 ff, 226, 235 f, 
332 f , pure and impure, 333 ff. 
“Flash,” of vision, 41, 136 
Forgiveness, Christian, 313 
Freedom, as self-determmation, 184; 

and servitude, 215 f 
“Free-will,” ambiguity of, 189, 236, 
morally neutral, 242, reality of, 291 

Gardeil, A , 27n 

“Give what thou commandest,” 212 
Good, 41 ff. 

Grace, 30 f , 118, 200 ff, 206, 216, 236, 
243, and nature, 230, Pelagian and 
Augustiman, 197, as shown m Paul, 
202 

Gregory, Bishop of Nazianzus, 1670. 


Happiness, desire of, 95 
Hatred, of brothers, 267 ff 
Heathen, good works of, 188 f, 227 ff. 
Hilary, Bishop of Pictavium, 19, 13 in. 
Holy Spirit, 33 f , not “begotten,” 69 f ; 
and charity, 33 f , 58, 157 ff, 307 f , 
314 f, as communion of Father and 
Son, 34, 165, double procession of, 
158, 173, 176 f ; as gift, 162 ff. 
Humihty, 51, 312; of God, 45 

Image, of God m man, indelibility of, 
30, 103, 108, 1 19, 189, 231 f., per- 
fecting of, 122 ff.,‘ renewal of, 1 18 ff , 
231 

Images, of the Trinity, 23 f.; lover, 
loved, and love, 26, 54 f, 58, 136* 
mind, self-knowledge, self-love, 26, 
60 ff , memory, understanding, will, 
27j 87 ff, 105 f, 168 ff, of 

faith, 30, 96, 100 f.; of God, 113 ff, 
visible object, vision, and attention, 
29, 91 f , lOI f. 

Immortality, 95, 102, 124 
Incarnation, 20, 33, 44 f., 146, 260 f., 
275, 279; the proof of God’s love, 
95 310 f 

Introspection, 23 

Jerome, and the Vulgate, 14 
Judgment, day of, 330 f. 

Judgments, of value, 64 f., 119, 133 
Julian, the Emperor, 252 
Justice, divine, Pelagian idea of, 183: 
m Roman law, 490 

Justification, 96, 188, 204 f,, 228 f, 

235 

Kirk, K. E., i4in. 

“Know thyself,” 80 ff. 

Knowledge, assimilates knower to 
known, 68, divine, and creation, 152; 
human, scarcity of, 150 f, as “off. 
sprmg,” 69 f.; and Wisdom, 29, 93, 
99 

Language, value of, 74 f. 

Law, ceremonial and moral, 212 ff., 
234, “natural,” 227 ff., of works and 
of faith, 210 f 
Le Landais, M , 257n 
“Letter and Spirit,” two senses of, 198 
Logos-doctrine, 32 
Longing, the Christian, 290 
Love, Its meamng m Augustine, 35 f , 
of the creature, 66; defined, 50, 54; 
“and do what you will,” 257, 316, 
318, 343; of enemies, 266, 320, 324, 
and knowledge, 43 ff , 59 f., of learn- 



INDEXES 


mg, 73 fF , of love, 51, 53, 336, not 
an offspring,” 70 f , of partridges, 
321 , the soul’s beauty, 335 f , striving 
and satisfied, 71; trmity of, 54, 
“wants equals,” 321 f.; of the world, 
274 ff. 

Man, defined, 46n, 138 
Mamcheamsm, 184 
Marcellinus, Count, 186 f, 251 
Mary, the Virgin, 45 
Materialism, 39 f, 81 f., 317 
Mausbach, J , 23in 
Maximianists, sect of Donatism, 269n 
Memory, 27, 35, 87, 91 f, ii2f, 140, 
as image of the Father, 31, 138 f, 
of God, 1 19, and thought, 106 
Merit, as God’s gift, n8; m Pelagian- 
ism, 183 

Mind, m Augustine, 34, 128; not 
changeless, 63, 118, m Neo-Platon- 
ism, 20, 32; its search for self-know- 
ledge, 77 ff. 

Miracles, 51, 277 f,, 308 

Neo-Platonism, 20, 24, 32, 41 n 
Nicaea, Council of, 18 
Notis 32 

One, the Neo-Platonist, 20 
Origen, of Alexandria, 17, 32, i66n, 184 
Original sm, 184 ff. 

Pelagiamsm, 13 f , 33, 182 ff 
Pelagius, his idea of grace, 190 f, 197, 
219, reformer of morals, 182, works 
of 

Commentary on St PauVs Epistles, 185 
On Human Nature, 183, 190 
On Freedom of Choice, 19 1 
Persecution, sanctioned by Augustine, 

257 

“Person,” 22, 24, 31, 38; human and 
divme, 169 f. 

Philosophy, 99 

Physician, the Good, 306, 326, 332 
Plato, 35, 39n, 6on, 82n 
Platonists, 209n 
Plotinus, 20, 27, 29, 32 
Power, analysis of, 237; wrongly wor- 
shipped, 51 

Prayer, always answered, 305 ff , mter- 
cessory, 265 

Pride, 51 f , 201, 207 ff , 312, 322 f 
Punishment, degrees of, 232 
Pythagoras, 99 

Quicumque vult, 38n 


355 

Reason, active and contemplative, 93 f ; 

m Stoic thought, 32 
Re-baptism, by Donatists, 254 f., 319 
Regeneration, baptismal, 263 
Relations, m Trimtarian doctrme, 21, 

38 

Reward, the Chnstian’s, eternal life, 
283 f ; the vision of God, 222 ff , 
289 f 

Righteousness, defined, 49; “of God,” 
205, 208, 241 ; love of, 47 ff ; perfect 
and imperfect, 247 f. 

Ring, betrothal, parable of, 275 f. 
Robinson, J. Armitage, ifisn 
“Rock,” m Matthew 16.18, 340 

Sabbath, mystical sense of, 216 
Sabelliamsm, 18 

Sacraments, 254 ff., 265n, 274, 280, 
284, 297, 308, 315 
Scepticism, 124, 149 f 
Seeking, and finding, 57, 128 f 
Self-knowledge, 60, 77 ff , certainties 
of, 84 f. 

Self-love, 58 f, 1 15 f. 

Sellers, R V , lOon 
Semi-Pelagiamsm, 191 f 
Sense-perception, 29, 60, 91 f. 
Septuagmt, 14, 103n, I29n, 205n, 22411, 
273n 

Service, not needed by God, 327 
Simphcity, of God, 21, 152 
Sm, m what sense impossible for 
Christian, 295 ff ; vernal, 249, 263 
Smlessness, possibility of, 183, 186 f, 
196 ff, 245 ff, 250 

Soul, m Neo-Platonism, 20, theories of, 
81 f , 86 
Souter, A , I4n 
Spirit, Biblical senses of, I20 
Subordinationism, 18 
Substance, and accident, 21, 61 f 

Temetvm, obsolete word, 73 ff 
Temptation, Christ’s, 277 
Terminology, in De Trimtate, 34 ff 
Tertullian, 32, 184 
Thales, 8on 

Theophanies, in O T , 20 
Tongues, gift of, 308 
Traditor, surrenderor of scriptures, 251, 
347n 

Traduciamsm, i84f. 

Trmitarian pattern, m Augustine, 24 f. 
“Trimty,” Neo-Platomst, 20 
Tntheism, 18, 24 
Truth, 39 ff 
Tycomus, Rules of, i63n 



INDEXES 


356 

Understanding, 34 f. 

Use and enjoyment, 66, 85, 87 f, 

Vergil, quoted, 113, 116, 156 
Vinculum Tnmtatis, of the Holy Spirit, 34 
Virgm Birth, 45 

Virtues, and life to come, no f ; of the 
heathen, 23 m 
Vision, theory of, 60 
Vulgate, 14, losn, I29n, 207n, 273n, 
3i6n 

Water, symbol of Spint, 309 
Wealth, insecurity of, 342 


Will, 36, 70, 85, 87 ff, 106; to believe, 
241 ff , the divine, never defeated, 
242; “preparation’’ of, 190 f, 244 f 
Wisdom, 29, 98 ff., 1 13 f.; of God, 22, 
33, 136, 140 

Wives, parable of the two, 334 f. 

Word, various senses of, 67, “formable” 
and “formed,” 155 f ; human and 
divine, 32 f, 145 ff ; the mental, 27, 
65 ff ; and thought, 144 ff. 

Works, of chanty and of pride, 322 f. 
World, good and bad senses of, 276, 300 
Worship, the true wisdom, 98 
Wntmg, art of, 73 ff. 


Genesis 

1:26 

.123 

133 

1 27 93* 120, 

2:3 

216 

2.24 

261 

7 22 .... 

.120 

12:3 

229 

15-6^ 

230 

16*4 ff. 

347 


Exodus 

3.14 . .... 

273 

19 10 ff. .... 

217 

20.17 . .. 211. 

236 

31:18 . . 

213 

LeviUcus 

18-5 

235 

23-7 

216 

Deuteronomy 

6:4 

. 180 

6:5 .... 

“5 

9*10 

.213 

1696* 

217 

Judges 

2*20 

.196 

I Samuel 

24:10 

•239 

I Kings 

8*46 

•249 

Job 

28 28 29, 94, 98, 

113. 

207, 209 



Biblical References 


Psalms 

28 .. 

3-8 .. 

4 6. .. 

7-14 . 

9:1 

q:i 7 ... 


. 282 
. 208 

232 

. . .67 

. .. .81 

. . . . I I>=v 

10-3 

. 

343 

11.5 • 

. . 

50, X15 

II 10 

. 

• • 330 

12 6 

. . 

207 

14:2. 


129 

16.2 . 


327 

17 2. 


. .178 

17-4. . 

. 

..283 

19-3 ff 

. . . 

. 271 

19:5 • 

. . 

. 261 

i 9 * 7 *- 


232 

19 9 - 

. . 

•• 333 

22.23 • • 


224 

22.25 . 


. . 204 

22.27 . 


. 115*270 

27 4 * 

. . 

• 233 

27.9 ••• 

. . 

291 

30.2. 


236 

30 II f 


. ...332 

31-19 

. 

•• -235 

31.20 . 

, 

... .n8 

32*2 .. 



32 7 •• 

. 

. . . . 305 

342. . 

. . 

204 

34 5 

. . 

. 116,262 

85*^9 ' 

. . . . 

• 159 

36 7 ff--- 


. . 201 

38 9 • 

. . . . 

. ... 222 

36.11,9 

. 

.. . 209 

38.10 

. 

.. .116 

39 3 • • • 

. . 

. .. 141 

39 6 .. 

. . 

. 103 

41 I . 

. 

••• 317 


Psalms — continued 

41.4 . 

. 230,336 

51-3 •• 

•335 

51*9*3 • 

264 

54 6 

.... 236 

59 - 9 * •• 

116 

59-17 • 

.... 157 

62 5.. 

.. . . 157 

62:11 f 

242 

68*i8... 

162 

68 30 

. . 207 

69.32 . 

57 

71*5 •• 

157 

73 23 • 

..1 14 

73 27 f • 

• • • 337 

73 28 

. . . . 222 

78*25 

. .. 260 

82.6 . 

. , 278 

90.1 

. 131 

91 9 

. ... 157 

92 15 

... .250 

94.8 f . 

115 

lOI.I f. 

• 335 

103*2 ff. 

243 

103 3 . , 

121,178 

105:3 f 

. . . 128 

105:4 

. .. 57*141 

no 3 

273 

116 12 f 

.... 296 

119.85 . 

• ■ 236, 343 

119 133 

. . . . 200 

119*165 

268 

127 I . 

... . 164 

139 6 . 

. . 141, 178 

139*7 f 

n . 504 

143 2 

184, 196, 249 

147 20. 

203 

148 8 . 

120 



Proverbs 

3:16 . . 

5*i6f.. ... 

9-8 

10 19 

19:21 ... . 

20:8 f. 

30:15 • ••• 

Ecclesiastes 

j ;i8 

315 

- • •• 99 

180 

167 

243 

H 3 



120 



Is^ah 

2:2 


7*9 

129 

10:23 

247 

26*10 


28.11 

159 

53:7.... . . 

. . ..217 

55:8 f- 

129 

61:10 . ... 

261 

Jeremiah 

Ch. 31 . 

194 

31:31 fr. . 

219 

Ezekiel 

36*20 

315 

Daniel 

2:34 f... . . 


2*35 

. , . 266 

Wisdom 

2*1 


3 9 

51 

6;I2 

135 

6:2/1 

QQ 

8:1: . 

134 

8.21. .. 

2 II 

9114 

”3 

9^15 

41, 172, 283 

II 20 

• . 92 

13-1 f. . .. 


16-24 • • • 

246 

21*8 

. . . 240 

Ecclesiasticus 

1*5 •• • 

*47 

1.22 .... 

333 

7*20 

249 

18 7 

57 

18:30 

249 

23:20 

152 

24:21 . 

. , . . 129 

37 16. . 

. . . . 148 

43*27 • - 

. 181 


INDEXES 


357 


Matthew 

411 277 

5- 6 240,233 

5=7 .. 243 

58 43.989,317 

5 14 969 

5:17 906 

5=37- 147 

5=44*1 331 

5:46 320 

5:48 266 

6- *>3 304 

0:8 152 

6:9 229 

6:14 f* 313 

7:7 ff. 240 

7:12 51 

7*21 67 

S-29 274,339 

9^2 fF. 144 

9^12 324 

10:20 173 

11*13 159 

II 28 67 

11:28 f 51 

12*37 67 

13*46 298 

14:25 ff 266 

15 3 • « 234 

15 10 ff- 145 

16*13 fF 339 f- 

16 19 348 

17.20 247 

19 6 261 

19:24,26 196 

20:8 ff 226 

22*37 81 

22 37 ff.. ..173,247,343 
22:40 159 

23*6 f. 285 

23^15 232 

24:23. 265 

24*29 67 

25.34 ^23 

25*34^41 284 

25*35 243 

25:40 163 

25.41 287 

26 53 196 

27.51 216 

28:19 i74»i79 

Luke 

1:15 175 

1:37 250 

3*21 ff 174 

4*1 ^74 

5:21 ff. 144 

6:19 173 


Luke — continued 

8:8 317 

QOl :T2 - 09 

10:20 . . 

277 

10:29 — 


11:20... . 

216 

12:17 


12:20 

11*7 

15:4 f- — 

3*7 

17:6 

247 

18:1 1 f. . . . 


19:26 

233 

23:34 — 

.266, 296, 324 

24:44 

159 

24:46 


24:46 F. . . 

344 

24:47 

271.347 

24:49 

271 

John 

i:i...i 45 > 

147, 260, 289, 


310 

1:3 147, 148,261,273 

i*- 5 *--- 178 

1:10 300 


1:12 

1:14.. 122, 
344 

1:16,9. . 
1:29... . 

1*33 

3:2 

3*5 

q 8 

340 

147, 174, 306, 

202 

. . .856,319 

186 

3:17 


4:1 ..... 

239 

4 - 7 ff.. .. 


4:13 . . 

67 

4:24 .... 

-lit 

5*14 

5 :i 9 --- - 

153 

5:26 

175 

5^35 

202 

7:16 .. . 


7:37 ff- • • 

. . . 162, 309 

8-36 . 

237 

8.44.. .. 

293 

8:58 .. .. 


13:21 ff . 


13:34.. 266, 295, 305, 337 

14:6 . .. 

281,313 

14.8 f 

• • • -244 

14:21... . 


14.26. . . 

173,180 

15:5 .122 

!, 886, 335, 837 

15:13- • 

301,310,312 

15:25 - •• 

..159 

15:26 

173, 176, 180 

17:3 .. . 

124,222,244 



INDEXES 


358 

John — continued 

19:11 

... 238 

19 30- •• 

. ..120 

20 22 

• isSn, 173 

20 25 ff 

261 

21.15 ft. . 


Acts 

i.6ff,.... 

346 

2:4 


2:33 .... 

175 

2:37 f. . . 


4*12. . . 


6:7.. .. 

147 

7:60 — 

297 

8*i8f.. . 

174 

8:18 ff.... 

.... 164 

9:4... . . 

.163,342,346 

10:38 . 

.. 174 

10:44 ff . 

164 

ii:i5ff. . 


15:9* ^ 

172 

17*27 F . . . 

43* 1 14 

Romans 

1:7 


1:14 ff . . . 

208 

1:16 .. 

- . .239 

i:i6f . . 

. . . . 227 

^•^7 • • 

240,292 

1:18 ff ... 

209 

1:20 

23* 129, 137 
238, 306 

1:24 ... 

1:25 .. 

875 

2*8 ff. . 

• 227 

2.14 .. 

188, 194 

2:14 f .. 

. . .227 

2:i7ff 

... .203 

3.4 .. 

. . 264 

3*20 .. . 

.. 204,214 

3 20 ff 

2II 

3*21 . .. 

. 204 

3-22 f . 

228 

3*22 ff. ., 

230 

3*23 

184 

3 27 

207, 240 

3:28 . .. 

. ..187,228 

3*30 . .. 

. .233,239 

3*31 

.. 236 

4:3*5 •• 

• 238 

4*4. ... 

224 

4*5 • 

. . 1 14, 240 

48 

217 

4:15 .. . 

.... 199.214 

4:16 f. .. 

224 

Gh 5 

. . . 184, 185 

Ghs 5-7 

193 

5-5 50, 161, 173, 198, 

307 j 314: 326 


Romans — continued 
5 12 . i86, 230 

5 12~6.11 200 

5 13 ... 214 

5:15 ••• -185 

5*20. . . . 210,214 

6.4 • 235 

6:12 . . . . 249 

Ch. 7 194 

7:6 ff. 2I4f. 

7*7 . . .. 204,214 

7*7 fi 210 

7*7>“ 198 

7:8 240 

7:12 200 

8 3 fF 221 

8:6 198,214 

8*7 217 

8.15 239 

8 24 326 

8.24 F 291 

8*25 . ... 248 

8:26 f. 307 

8*28 50 

8*28, 30 224 

829 123 

8*29 f 199 

8 32 315 

8-35 • ••332 

9 7 ff* 224 

9 H 245 

9*30 F 234 

9 31 ... 234 

9*32 ... 234 

10:3 .. 114,204,210 

10.3 F ... . 234 

10*5 ff . . . 235 

10*13 235 

10:14 223 

10:17 147 

11*6 .. 206,228 

11:24. . . 229 

11*33 ^ 245 

ii33ff* 250 

11*36. . . 114 

12 2 . .119 

12 3 ... 245 

13 I . . .238 

13 8 ... .49 

13 8, 10 . . . 298 

13 9 • 222 

13-9 F .. .217 

I Corinthians 

1*3 202n 

1:13 272 

1:24 . .. 98,136,160 

2:9 . . 289 

2:12.... 212 


I Corinthians — continued 


3 6 f . . . .286 

3-19 96 

4'3 •• „ • 303 

4.7 118,205,233,238, 

241 

4:15 298 

6 17 n8 

7- 7 322 

8- j 274 

8 2f. M 

8.3 


10 13 

238 

11:7 

93*141 

11:29 

315 

12*3 •• 

67 

12.8 . 

29,99 

12 11 

163 

12 13 

162 

12 26 

280 

12.26 f. 

341 

12 29 

164 

13 1 ft 

161 

13 2 

297 

13*3 •• 

.... 303, 322 

13 4 

.... 51*299 

13*5 • 

169 

13 7 • 

239 

13 8 

94 

13*8 ff. 

225 

13*11 ff 

223 

13 12 

43. 57. >00, 12a 

123, 141, 233, 247 

14*2 

159 

14 14 .. 

120 

Ch 15 

40 

15-9 f 

224 

15.22. . 

196 

15 28 . 

181 

15*41 

. . . 225, 232 

15 43 

123 

15*49 • 


15:52 . 

123 

15-56 • 


II Corinthians 

1*12 

304 

Ch 3 . . . 

194 

3 2 ff . 

213 

3 3ff • 

. . 217 

3-® , • 

• ■ 187. 193. 198 

3:16 f . 


3:17 * 

236 

3 18... 

. . .122, 141, 148 

4*16 . 

122, 223 

56f . 

100 

V 0** 

. . .43, 248, 292 

Ch 6... 

38 

6*2 ff . 

54 



INDEXES 


359 


II Corinthians — continued 
6 14. . . . 262 


Philippians — continued Hebrews — continued 


Galatians 
2.15f.. . . 
221. . . , 
38 ... 

3.8, 16.. 

3:19 

3*21 fF.. . 

3:24.. 

3- 25 

4- 4 

4.6... 

4^9* • 

4:24. ... 

5:5 • 


262 

2:13 . . 

196, 234, 241 

12 6 

212, 246 

3-13 

. . 248 

12.7, n. 

250. 306 

3-13 f" • 

290 


297. 303 



James 

273 

Golossians 




1:13 

. .. .166 

1:15 •• 


1:18 

123 

1:17. 

. ..234 

2.3.. 

. . 29 

2:13 . 

• • 233 

2:11 . . . 


2 19 

233 

2 i6 . . . 

51 

4.6 . . 


229 

218 

220 

206 

218 

180 

173 

57 

142 

. . . 240 

161,215, 256,339 

• - 51 

. . 50, 268, 343 

209 


Ephesians 

2 8 fir. 241 

3- 17 274 

3 20 243 

4 2 f. 268 

4- 3 V 256 

4-7 f- 162 

48 233 

4.12 164 

4 23 f. 120 


3 5 f- • • 

3 9f. .. 

3 9. 10 • 
3.10. 
3*14. .. 
43 • 


1 Thessalonians 
2.7 

2 13 . ... 

5:6 fif 


240 

67 

202, 21 1, 246 
243 

. . 161, 239 

.. .209,250 


• 330 
121, 267 

• • 93 

I33» 223 
.. 256 

...265 


I Timothy 

1:5 .... 44,172,233 

i*8f .. . . 205 

2:4. . . . . 242 

2:5 . . .. 172,230 

6-i6 134 

II Timothy 

4.2 180 


Titus 

i;i6. . . 

2:12. . . . 


282 

235 


I Peter 

3*i3*- 

4*8 . . 


••• 332 
.264, 296 


II Peter 
2.19 .. 


Hebrews 

2:4 


1 John 

i:i-2:ii . 

1:5 • - 
1*8 ... . 
2*2 
2*10 

2:12-17. . 
2:18-27 

2 27-3 8. 

3:2... . 

3:9 ^ 

3*q-i8 . 
3*19-4-3 
3:23 

Gh 4 . 

4*4-12 . 

4:7f ... 
48 . 

4.12-16 . 
4*i6 
4.17-21 


260 fif. 

41.53 

.184,249,258 
. . 300 

27oi 

279 fif. 

. ...287!?. 
148, 156, 222 
. . 258 
295 ff. 
303 fF 
337 

. .i6in 
... 312 ff. 

. ..53.160 

51 

. . 320 fif. 

• 51.52.157 
329 fif. 


.297 10 I 214 4*20 53 

.289 11:40 225 5:1-3 339 ff- 


Philippians 
1:21 fif- . . 
2:6. . . 



